# docid-32267344

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/14/20

• AGENCY :

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10118-10069

RECORD SERIES :

BRIEFING BOOKS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Released under the John

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 54756 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

HSCA

DATE: 03/16/1978

PAGES:

152

SUBJECTS :

DE VARONA, ANTONIO

HALL, HARRY

HALER, HARRY

DOCUMENT TYPE: BRIEFING BOOK

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/27/1996

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Box 3. Some pages are referred to third agencies for review.

v9.1

1H 54756

DocId: 32267344

Page

---

## Page 2

MEMORANDUM

Regarding

Testimony of Harry Haler

Harry Haler appeared as a witness before the Sub-

committee on

the Assassination of John F. Kennedy on

Thursday, March 16, 1978, at which time the veracity of his

testimony was seriously questioned by several Members of the

Subcommittee due to certain internal inconsistencies in his

presentation and specific variances with a previous statement

given to Federal agents on November 30, 1963 at the Terminal

Island Federal Institution, Los Angeles, California.

This memorandum contains several gross examples

illustrating the problems inherent in accepting Haler's

testimony which the Committee Members might wish to pursue

during Haler's next appearance under oath.

14 54756 DocId: 32267344

Page 2

---

## Page 3

ISSUE I - When did Harry Haler first meet Jack Ruby?

A.

Previous Statement

1.

November 30, 1963

S/A Nolan and S/S Spaman

- First met Ruby in latter part of 1952-53 in Dallas

through Marty Schwartz (Field).

vS.

2.

p.11

pp. 56-

57

Testimony

- Met Ruby in Chicago when Haler was 16-17 years old

during 1950 or '52.

- Met Ruby in Chicago through Marty Field - "anywhere

from 16-18 years old."

ISSUE II - What was the last date of contact between Harry Haler

and Jack Ruby?

A.

Previous Statement

1. November 30, 1963

•S/A Nolan to S/S Spaman

- No direct contact with Ruby since 1955

- Visit in '62 to Carousel Club but Ruby not in town.

vS.

2.

p. 52

pp. 53

63

p. 59

Testimony

a). Last contact with Ruby 1958-59.

b) Not in Dallas after 1958; does not recall visiting

Carousel.

c) FBI report re 1955 incorrect

HH. 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ISSUE II... page 2

p. 70

d) Did not see Ruby in 1959-60 due to relationship with

Truman Gibson, JI.

e) Possibly saw Ruby after 1961.

pp.75-

77-

* 83

p.24

ISSUE III - Did Harry Haler discuss John F. Kennedy and/or

Robert Kennedy with Jack Ruby?

A.

Testimonial

Quote

at issue:

Mr. Haler:

He was the most fanatical person I ever

seen about the Kennedys. I never seen any-

thing like it in my life. We nearly came

to blows. He loved the Kennedys so much.

If you said anything about them he would

want to fight you. He was just a -- just

loved them like somebody would love Babe

Ruth or something. Because one time I

told him what I thought of Bobby Kennedy

and he just jumped up like he was going to

fight with me. But I think I kind of

convinced him, so he didn't do it.

/.

Relevance:

If Jack Ruby was "fanatical...about the Kennedys"

to the point of offering to fight over a derogatory

statement concerning Robert Kennedy, and Haler was able

to convince Ruby that the derogatory information was

N4 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 4

---

## Page 5

ISSUE III... page 2

B.

true, then the information per se and the underlying

circumstances relating to that information are relevant

to :

(1)

Jack Ruby's true state of mind and feelings

concerning the Kennedys, and

(2) the credibility of

Haler as his testimony relates

to the time he last had contact with Ruby and the

nature and extent of those contacts.

Previous Statement

(1) November 30, 1963; JFK exhibit #81

S/A Nolan and S/S Spaman

-Haler's statement makes no mention of Jack Ruby's

feelings toward the Kennedys and the only reference to

Ruby's state of mind is the following:

"Hall (Haler) advised that it was his opinion from

his contacts and knowledge of Ruby that Ruby had

some strong motivation for his shooting of Lee

Harvey Oswald

and that the only motivation that

he, Hall, could contribute to Ruby was money or

the fear that Oswald possibly might involve Ruby

in the assassination of the President of the

U:S. He admitted this was pure speculation on his

part and made the offer that he would be willing

HH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 5

---

## Page 6

ISSUE III... page 3

C.

to go to Dallas, Texas and meet Ruby and he

was sure that from such a meeting that he

could learn from Ruby what motivated him to

shoot and kill Oswald."

(2) JFK exhibit 82 - U.S.S. S. Report re 11/30/63

interview: P. 3.

"He (Hall) said he could not conceive of Ruby

doing anything out of patriotism."

"...he stated that he was close enough to Ruby...

that...he could persuade him to tell the whole

story."

Testimony at 3/16/78 hearing

(1) p. 60 - J.R. loved the Kennedy family;"

...absolutely

adored them."

(2) p. 61 - JFK "...was the President of the United

States and he was the first Catholic elected...

"

(3)

p. 24 -"...the most fanatical person I ever seen

about the Kennedys.

... We nearly came to blows.

He loved the Kennedys so much.

If you said anything

about them he would want to fight you."

HH 54756 DooId:32267344

Page 6

---

## Page 7

ISSUE III.. page

4

Did Haler tell Jack Ruby about his antipathy for

RFK?

A. Previous Statements -

FBI and U.S.S.S. reports: no reference.

B. 3/16/78 hearing

1. p. 24 - Ruby started to fight when Hall said

negative things about R.F.K.; Haler:

"But

I think I kind of convinced him, so he didn't

do it."

2.

P. 62 - Haler "sure" Ruby knew of his antipathy

for R.F.K.

3. P. 62 Around time of inauguration.

4. p. 62

"

...could have had to do when he

was running against the fellow from Tennessee.

...when he lost out as vice president."

5.

p. 74 - Haler's dislike was generated by

RFK's activities as Attorney General; p. 75 -

not because of the Hoffa probe, or, p. 76-

because of Ruby or teamsters.

HN 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 7

---

## Page 8

ISSUE III...page 5

6.

7.

8 .

9.

10..

p. 83 - Haler's dislike began around time he

was indicted.

p. 88 - Haler "

...got in a very terrible

squabble with him on the Marilyn Monroe

issue, if I have to bring it up ... because

I was friendly with Joe DiMaggio at the time."

P. 88 - Called RFK from Mexico City "

...a week

or two... " before Haler's Federal indictment,

in 1962.

p. 90 - Haler broke with RFK earlier than the

phone call from Mexico, when he "knew" RFK

...wouldn't go to bat..."

for him on that

indictment.

p. 93 - Haler then says his break with RFK

started before that, when he"...went to him

and asked him if he would consider someone

for a Federal judgeship.."

,"... after his

brother was elected..." when he thought

RFK"...was (p. 94) going to be Attorney

General."

NH 54756 DooId:32267344 Page

---

## Page 9

f: ;

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Procedural Memorandum on Committee Meeting, March 16, 1978

Biography of Harry Hall

Goal #1

Goal #2

Goal #3

Exhibits

To determine Hall's involvement in and knowledge

of illegal activities.

To determine Hall's involvement with and know-

ledge of Organized Crime.

To determine whether Harry Hall had knowledge of

Jack Ruby's involvement with Organized Crime, or

obtained knowledge of Jack Ruby's shooting of

Lee Harvey Oswald.

1.

FBI interview of Harry Hall, dated November

30, 1963.

2.

3.

Secret Service interview of Harry Hall,

dated November 30, 1963.

FBI report regarding an incident between Jack

Ruby and Vincent Lee, Branch Manager, American

Guild of Variety Artists.

Chronology - Antonio de Varona

Goal #1

Goal #1

Goal #2

Background

To determine Antonio de Varona's role in the

activities of Central Intelligence Agency-sponsored

and privately funded anti-Castro Cuban groups,

including all assassination attempts.

Background

Goal #2

To determine de Varona's role in the CIA/Mafia

Castro

assassination plots. and to determine de

Varona's relationship. to and involvement with

organized crime figures.

NH 54756: DocId: 32267344. Page: 9

---

## Page 10

PROCEDURE

KENNEDY SUBCOMMITTEE HEARINGS

1.

The Chairman should recognize Elizabeth Berning,

Clerk of the Committee, to read for the record those Members

who are officially designated to be on the Subcommittee.

today, pursuant to Committee Rule 12.3.

2.

The hearing should go into Executive Session.

There should be a motion:

that today's hearing and one subsequent day

of hearing be held in Executive Session

since on the basis öf information obtained by

the Committee, the Committee believes the

evidence or testimony may tend to defame, degrade,

or incriminate people, and consequently Section 2(K)

(5) of Rule Il of the Rules of the House and Committee

Rule 3.3 (5), require such hearings be in Executive

Session.

There must be three Members present to vote on this motion.

A rollcall vote should be taken.

3

The Chairman should swear the witness at this

time.=

He should state that he understands a copy of our

Rules have already been given to the witness. He should

ask the witness if this is true. The Chairman should

NH 54756 DocId:32267341 Page 10

---

## Page 11

- 2 -

state that the witness is appearing pursuant to subpoena.

4.

The Chairman should give a brief statement con-

cerning the subject of the investigation. He should state

that House Resolution 222 mandates the Committee

"to conduct a full and complete investigation

and study of the circumstances surrounding the

assassination and death of President John F. Kennedy

including determining whether the existing laws of

the United States concerning the protection of the

President and the investigatory jurisdiction and

capability of agencies and departments are adequate

in their provisions and enforcement, and whether

there was full disclosure of evidence and information

among agencies and departments of the United States

Government, and whether any evidence or information

not in the possession of an agency or department would

have been of assistance in investigating the assas-

sination, and why such information was not provided

or collected by that agency or department,

and to make recommendations to the House

if ther

Select committee deems it appropriate for the amendment

HH 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 11

---

## Page 12

- 3

of existing legislation or the enactment of new

legislation.

5.

proceed.

The questioning of the witness may now

Fifth Amendment

6.

If the witness takes the Fifth Amendment to

a question, and the Committee desires to immunize the

witness, the Chairman should give the witness a copy

of Judge Bryant's order immunizing the witness and

compelling testimony from him. The witness should now

be directed to answer the question that was propounded.

If the Witness Continues to Object

7.

Pursuant to Committee Rule 3.5, any objection

of the witness or witness' counsel must be specifically

ruled upon by the Chairman. Should the witness object

on the grounds of pertinency, he should be given a brief

explanation of the pertinency of the question and then

be directed to answer it.

MH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 12

---

## Page 13

=4 -

8.

At the conclusion of the questioning of the

witness, pursuant to Rule 3.6 of the Committee, the

Chairman should offer the witness and/or his counsel

five minutes to explain or amplify the witness' testimony.

9.

The witness should be informed that he is

under the continuing subpoena of the Committee, and

subject to the call of the Chair at a future date.

-..=9:.

NH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 13°

---

## Page 14

TEAM #2, Issue A, #7

a and b

BIOGRAPHY

Harry Hall

AKA

Harry Helfgot

Harry Halfgott

Harry Hunt

Harry Mills

Sidney Brin

Harry Sinclair, Jr.

Ed Pauley, Jr.

Harry Hall, a reputed confidence man and gambler,

has an extensive arrest record dating from 1942. Hall's

arrests range from gambling, grand theft robbery, forgery, and

conspiracy to commit robbery and forgery.

During 1950, Hall became a paid informant, providing

information at various times to the IRS, Department of Justice,

FBI, Secret Service, Department of Treasury Intelligence

Division, and Los Angeles Police Department Intelligence

Division. Hall provided information to the Secret Service

which resulted in the seizure of a counterfeiting plant. Infor-

mation provided to IRS Intelligence resulted in several indict-

ments for income tax evasion.

Hall attempted to further his own schemes as a con-

fidence man through his association with the various law en-

forcement agencies. On occasion when Hall met known criminals

under Federal investigation, he would allude to alleged impor-

tant

contacts with Federal agencies and could obtain informa-

tion that would benefit their

cases Through these confidence

schemes, Hall became acquainted with known organized crime

figures and associates of organized crime figures.

HH. 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 14

---

## Page 15

Hall Biography - page 2

During 1952, Hall was in Dallas (using the name Harry

Sinclair, Jr.) looking for high stake gambling games and to

place bets on football games or horse races. Hall's uncle,

Marty Fields (alias Marty Schwartz), introduced Hall to Jack

Ruby. At that time Ruby ran a small, cheap bar and nightclub

in Dallas.

Hall's method of operation at that time was to use

the name of a well-known person and ingratiate himself with

persons with money. On occasion, Ruby provided Hall with a

bankroll and introduced him to likely victims. Ruby got forty

percent of any deal and Hall took sixty percent. Ruby's cut

was for his influence with the Dallas Police Department.

During the course of their relationship, Hall and ruby obtained

large sums of money from wealthy oilmen, including H. L. Hunt,

Dick

Andrade and gamblers in the Dallas area. Their activities

extended beyond the Dallas area including Montreal, Shreveport,

San Francisco, Los Angeles and Oklahoma City.

The following identification of Harry. Hall was ob-

tained from an FBI report:

HY 54756

DocId: 32267344

Date of Birth: January 3 or 13, 1919

Place of Birth: Chicago, Illinois

Sex:

Male

Race:

White

Height: 5'11"

Weight: 205 pounds

Hair:

Brown

Eyes:

Brown

Complexion:

Faintly pock-marked, cheeks stocky.

Gait: Walks

with a limp, has deformed right

ankle.

Handwriting:

Right-handed

occupation:

Salesman

FBI. Numer:

2956-393

Social Security Number:

LoS Angeles P.D. Number:

358-10-2658

H

111887

Spouse:

Betty Hall

Page 15

---

## Page 16

GOAL F1

OBJECTIVE

To determine Hall's involvement in and knowledge of

illegal activities.

Nature and extent of Hall's involvement in illegal

activities

1. Gambling - bookmaking setups

2. Confidence schemes

3.

Nonsufficient funds

4. Grand theft robbery

5. Forgery

70: 262226

MW. 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 16

---

## Page 17

GOAL #1

FACTUAL BACKGROUND

Between 1942 and 1966, Hall was arrested on nine separate

occasions on charges of Nonsufficient Funds, Gambling, Grand

Theft, Robbery, Forgery, and Conspiracy to Commit Robbery and

Forgery. On January 18, 1955, Hall was convicted of Forgery in

Los Angeles and sentenced (on April 14, 1955) to 1-14 years; Hall

was paroled from the California Institution for Men at Chino

on April 23, 1956. On September 14, 1966, Hall was arrested as

Harry Mills in Los Angeles on charges of using White House

stationery and the name of Jack Valenti in a scheme to sell

surplus military equipment.

About February 1, 1960, Harry Hall, using the name of

Sidney Brin, was employed as an investigator by Truman K.

Gibson, Jr., an attorney from Chicago. Gibson was under

indictment for Anti-Racketeering violations. In the course of

his employment, Hall prepared (or caused to be prepared) false

documents, purporting to be authored by officials of the Justice

Department, indicating the charges against Gibson would be

dismissed. Hall was indicted on April 4, 1962 for False

Personation of a Federal Officer, Obstruction of Justice, and

Fraud by Wire. On October 1, 1962, Hall was convicted of

Obstruction of Justice and Fraud by wire and sentenced to:

30 months

HH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 17

---

## Page 18

GOAL II

OBJECTIVE

To determine Hall's involvement with and knowledge

of Organized Crime.

A. Nature and extent of Hall's relationship with known

Organized Crime figures and associates of known Organized

Crime figures.

1.

Truman K. Gibson

2.

Mike Coppola

3.

George Beckley

72242002

759C3 22004

IN 54756. DocId:32267344. Page 18

---

## Page 19

Goal #2 - page 2

Truman K. Gibson, Jr.

An attorney from Chicago, Ill. and a former executive of

the National Boxing Enterprises, Inc. and the International

Boxing Clubs of New York and Illinois. Gibson was in-

dicted in Los Angeles, on September 22, 1959 with Paul

John "Frankie" Corbo, Frank "Blinky" Palermo, Joseph Sica,

and Louis Tom Dragna, for conspiracy to violate the Anti-

Racketeering Statutes, by extorting control of the then-

world's welterweight boxing champion Don Jordan from his

licensed manager. All defendants were found guilty on

May 30, 1961.

Michael Coppola - "Trigger Mike"

New York gangster. Coppola was part of the Lucky Luciano

organization; he shared the leadership when Luciano was

incarcerated in 1939.

George Lee Beckley

Newport, Kentucky. Allegedly owns a federal wagering tax

stamp. Beckley does not consider himself a bookmaker, but

merely a commission man handling action from bookmakers

all over the country.

IH 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 19

---

## Page 20

Goal #2 - page 3

B. Nature and extent of Hall's connections with the Inter-

national Brotherhood of

Teamsters Union and individuals

connected with it.

1. Business dealings with James R. Hoffa; personal rela-

tionship with Hoffa.

2. Discussions and/or meetings with Paul Dorfman regard-

ing offer to

Hall to collect derogatory information

on the Kennedy family. Knowledge of Ruby's association

and/or contacts with Dorfman.

3. Knowledge of and relationship with Barney Baker.

Knowledge of Ruby's association and/or contact with

Baker.

4. Knowledge of and relationship with Irwin Weiner.

NY 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 20

---

## Page 21

Goal #2 - page 4

James R. Hoffa

Former President of the International Brotherhood of

Teamsters.

Hoffa disappeared in August, 1975:

Paul Dorfman

• A major figure in the Chicago underworld and labor unions,

Dor fman

allegedly introduced Hoffa to the Chicago under-

world. Grew up with Jack Ruby.

Robert Baker AKA "Barney"

Served as Jimmy Hoffa's "roving organizer and ambassador

of violence". Baker was regarded. as one of Hoffa's key

lieutenants, particularly in dealing with the Mafia.

Baker called Ruby on November 7 and 8, 1963. Baker

called Dave Yaras on November 21, 1963. Yaras is allegedly

a top syndicate gambler with Teamster and Cuban connections.

He is also considered the Miami representative to the

Chicago Mob.

Irwin Weiner

7345 North Damen, Chicago, Illinois

AKA

"Stucky" A Teamster bondsman. During 1959 he

operated American Bäil Bond Company and was president of

Summit Fidelity and

Surety Company: Weiner served as

top Hoffa advisor.

Ruby called weiner October 26, 1963

and talked for 12 minutes.

HN 54756. DocId:92267344 Fage 21

---

## Page 22

Goal #2 - page. 5

FACTUAL BACKGROUND

During an FBI interview on June 14, 1961, Hall said

he was first introduced into the circle of nationally

known individuals involved in criminal

activities by Truman

K. Gibson, JI. In 1960, Gibson stated in Miami that Hall

had formerly been connected with the Internal Revenue Service

and had good sources of information within the government.

Hall stated he was recommended to Mike Coppola by

Jim Norris to assist Coppola following his indictment for

income tax evasion. Hall met with Coppola twice in 1961.

The first meeting was around Easter

in New York City, to

discuss the charges against Coppola. After the meeting

Hall met Marty Weiss, who he claims is Coppola's money man

in New York. During May, Hall stopped at O'Hare Airport in.

Chicago

and transported $7,500 in currency to Coppola in

Miami from Weiss. Hall advised the FBI that Coppola told him

that if he helped in the matter, Hall would get a good deal

involving a trip to Rome. Hall claimed the deal would in-

volve "carrying something over to talk to the 'Boys', one

of whom he was to attempt to arrange to get back into the

United States on a legitimate basis."

coppola introduced Hall to George Lee Beckley, a

gambler who was also having tax difficulties:

When Hall met

with Beckley in Newport, Kentucky, Beckley expressed an

interest in determining whether gamblers were to be called

before grand juries and whether the IRs was interested in

NW 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 22

---

## Page 23

Goal #2 - page 6

him. Beckley arranged a $25,000 line of credit at the

Sands Hotel, Las Vegas, and gave Hall a telephone credit

card in the name of Sidney Brin.

During an FBI interview on June 7, 1961, Hall said

he set up a betting account for Beckley through Allied Meat

Company, 3311 North Main, Los Angeles.

Beckley thought he

was getting the "lay off"' (when there is an imbalance in

betting, a bookmaker will distribute the unbalanced portion

of the bets to even the books), but Hall was giving him

straight bets.

NH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 23

---

## Page 24

GOAL #3

OBJECTIVE

To determine whether Harry Hall had knowledge of

Jack Ruby's involvement with Organized Crime, or obtained

knowledge of

Jack Ruby's shooting of Lee Harvey Oswald.

Line of Questioning

A. Nature and extent of Harry Hall's association with Jack

Ruby or Ruby-controlled criminal activities.

1. Gambling

2. Prostitution

3. Narcotics

4. Liquor

B. Determine validity of alleged swindles of oilmen, includ-

ing H. L. Hunt and Dick Andrade.

C. Knowledge of Ruby's activities in the Dallas area,

Chicago, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Montreal, Oklahoma City,

San Francisco, New Orleans, Shreveport, and Morgan City.

1. Alleged connections between Ruby and Chicago Organized

•Crime figures.

2. Alleged connections between Ruby and Paul Dorfman.

3. Alleged connections between Ruby and Joe Campisi.

4.

Alleged connections between Ruby and Santo Trafficante

and Sam Giancana.

D.: Nature and extent of Hall's and/or Ruby's involvement

with specific individuals

l. James Henry Dolan

2:

Vincent Lee

AW 54756 DocId: 322673gWeYage

Gr 2pm

---

## Page 25

Goal #3 - page 2

4. Paul Rowland Jones

5. Lewis J. McWillie

6. Laurence Meyers

7.. Norman Rothman

8. Alex Gruber

9. Ralph Paul

10. Nofio Pecora

11. Russell D. Matthews

12. Joe Civello

13.

Carlos Marcello

14. Vincent Marcello

15. Peter Guarisco

HT 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 25

-.=a:

'÷".

---

## Page 26

Goal #3 - page 3

1. James Henry Dolan

Dolan, who is presently incarcerated in the Federal

Penitentiary in Atlanta, Georgia, became the Dallas

representative for the American Guild of Variety Artists

(AGVA) in 1957 following his release from Leavenworth

Prison. Due to his background and position with the

union, Dolan quickly became familiar with the local clubs

which included the Carousel owned by Jack Ruby and the

operation of the Dallas "street scene". His personal

relationship with Ruby and individuals intimately in-

volved in the gambling business in Dallas afforded him

an opportunity to form an opinion as to Ruby's alleged

involvement with Organized Crime.

2. Vincent Lee

In 1953, Lee was Branch Manager of AGVA in Dallas.

On

August 11, FBI

Special Agent Ralph Miles was ("chanced

to be") in the office on "official business" and witnessed

a confrontation between Lee and Jack Ruby over supplying

entertainment. Ruby implicitly threatened Lee with a

reference to his gun.

Lee later gave SA Miles information regarding Ruby's

view that he was a tough character and of his associations

with Joe Bonds and James Robert Todd. Lee said all three

hung out around Sue's Used Car Lot.-(HSCA Exhibit 3)

HH 54756 DocId:32267344' Page 26

---

## Page 27

Goal #3 - page 4

3. Dewey Groom

Owner of the Longhorn Ranch Nightclub, Dallas, Texas.

Groom was an

associate and former employee of Jack Ruby.

During an FBI interview, Ruby lists Groom as one of his

closest friends.

4.

Paul Rowland Jones

Close associate of Jack Ruby; met through two mutual

friends - Paul "Needle Nose" Labriola and Jim Weinberg.

Jones was convicted in the late 1940's of opium smuggling

and an attempt to bribe 'Sheriff Guthrie of Dallas. 1942-

1946, Jones was a member of the Chicago Syndicate; moved

to Dallas in 1947. Considered to be the czar of the

Dallas Syndicate, which included Paul Labriola, Lipsky,

and Jack Knappi, a cousin of "Jack Ketti, well-known

Chicago hoodlum". Jones saw Ruby on November 12 and 13,

1963. On the 13th, Gruber was also at the meeting.

5. Lewis J. McWillie

Friend and associate of Jack Ruby. In 1959, Mcwillie

managed the Tropicana Casino in Havana, then owned by

Norman Rothman of Chicago.

In 1960, McWillie worked as

a pit boss at the Capri in Havana, and in 1961, McWillie

left Cuba to work at the Cal-Neva Lodge in Nevada:

McWillie may have had associations with Trafficante,

Giancana and Roselli.

HH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 27

---

## Page 28

Goal #3 - page 5

6. Lawrence Meyers

Chicago, Illinois. A personal friend and associate. of

Jack Ruby. During October, 1963, Meyers attended the

Dallas State Fair with Jack Ruby. On November 20, 1963,

Meyers flew to Dallas with Jean West. They stayed at

the Ramada Inn on the night of the 20th and checked into

the Cabana Motel on the morning of November 21, 1963.

After dinner on the 21st. he went to the Carousel Club;

around midnight on the 2lst Meyer met with his brother

and his wife, Miss West and Jack Ruby at the bar in the

Cabana Motel.

7.

Norman Rothman

An organized crime figure. Operated a casino in Cuba

prior to 1959 and offered to assassinate Castro in 1961 --

which FBI declined. Associate of Trafficante and Sam

Benton.

8. Frank Alexander Gruber - Los Angeles, California

A boyhood friend of Jack Ruby. Gruber visited Ruby in

Dallas from November 11-13, 1963. Ruby called Gruber at his

LoS Angeles home 20 minutes after the news of the assassination

was out on November 22, 1963

*9.

Raloh Paul

Owner of the Bull Penn Drive Inn, Arlington, Texas

Paul

was a close personal friend and business associate of

Jack Ruby

1H. 54756 DOCIA:92267344 - Page 28

---

## Page 29

Goal #3. - page 6

10.

Nofio Pecora

An alleged manager for Carlos Marcello for gambling and

prostitution activities. On October 30, 1963, Pecora

received a telephone call from a phone routinely used

by Jack Ruby. Also the brother-in-law of D'Alton Smith,

an associate of Carlos Marcello.

11. Russell Douglas Matthews

Hudkins alleges that Matthews was recruited to participate

in CIA-Castro plots.

In a December 1963 FBI report

(CD 86, p.198), he is referred to as a close associate of

Ruby and a "strong arm man." His attorney in Dallas

allegedly described him as a "local godfather" and

"probably the closest thing to the Mafia that we've ever

seen in this town."

CE 2303 states that Ruby placed a

13-minute phone call to Matthews' wife three weeks before

the assassination. His wife, Elizabeth Matthews, is now

divorced from Matthews and in 1963 resided in Shreveport,

Louisiana.

She cannot recall receiving the phone call.

It has been alleged that Matthews was also associated with

H.L. Hunt. Hudkins claims that Matthews knew Castro,

had fought with him in Cuba, and had believed that Castro

would set him up in a

casino in Havana. Hudkins claims

that Matthews refused to participate in the plots.

HH• 54756. DocId:32267344 Page 29

---

## Page 30

Goal

#3 - page 7

12.

Joseph Francis Civello, aka Joe Ciurello

Deceased 1/17/70

Civello attended the Appalachin meeting in 1957 and was

the reputed Boss of Organized Crime in Dallas. Civello

was considered an experienced narcotics trafficker

and extortionist.

WH 54756 DöcId:32267344 Page 30

---

## Page 31

Goal #3 - page 8

E. Nature and extent of Hall's knowledge of Ruby's financial

status

F. Nature and extent of Hall's knowledge of Ruby relationship

with the Dallas Police Department and Federal investigative

agencies.

Knowledge of Ruby as a police informant

G. Nature and extent of Hall's knowledge of Ruby's involvement

in "sex" parties

1. Knowledge of Patrick Kirkwood

2. Knowledge of "Candy Barr" - Juanita Dale Phillips

3. Knowledge of "Little Lynn" - Karen Bennett

IN 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 31

---

## Page 32

Goal

#3 - page 9

1.

Patrick Kirkwood

Owner of the Cellar Club in Fort Worth and an

acquaintance of Jack Ruby. Allegedly Kirkwood owned a

private gambling club in Fort Worth and held sex parties

that were frequented by Ruby, organized crime figures, and

Dallas police officers.

2. Juanita Dale Phillips, aka Candy Barr

A stripper in the Dallas/Fort worth area prior to her

arrest on drug charges. Ruby contacted her on several

occasions after she was released from jail in 1963.

3. Karen Bennett, aka Little Lynn

A stripper at Ruby's Carousel Club, Dallas, Texas.

Prior to working at the Carousel, Little Lynn worked

at Pat Kirkwood's Cellar Club in Fort Worth.

-H₩ 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 32

---

## Page 33

Goal #3 - page 10

H. Facts concerning a deal between Ruby, Harry Hall (posing

as Harry Sinclair), and some gamblers in Dallas which

reportedly resulted in Hall and Ruby collecting between

$70,000 to $80,000 on a trip to Midland, Texas.

I. Nature and extent of Ruby's relationship with Buzzy Rivkin

and Dave "Dingy" Halper.

J. Hall's knowledge of the nature and extent of Ruby's activities

in Cuba

1. Trips made to Cuba - 1959

2. Knowledge of relationships Ruby had with persons involved

in the casinos in Havana

3. Gunrunning activities

.. is

NH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 33

---

## Page 34

Goal #3 - page 11

FACTUAL BACKGROUND

On November 29, 1963 Hall contacted the Secret Service in

Los Angeles, California and stated he had information of value

concerning Jack Ruby of Dallas, Texas. Representatives from

the Secret Service and the FBI interviewed Hall on November 30,

1963 at the Federal Correctional Institution, Terminal Island,

California. (HSCA Exhibits 1 and 2)

Hall advised that in about the latter part of 1952 or

the early part of 1953 he first met Jack Ruby at Dallas, Texas.

Hall was introduced to Ruby by his (Hall's) uncle, Marty Field,

alias Marty Schwartz.

During the course of the interview Hall discussed various

schemes and deals he and Ruby undertook to make money. They

split all winnings on a 60-40 basis (Hall got 60%). These

deals involved wealthy oil men, including H.L. Hunt, Dick

Andrade, and gamblers in the Dallas area. Hall said their

activities extended beyond the Dallas area, including the cities

of Montreal, Shreveport, San Francisco, Oklahoma City, and LOS

Angeles.

Hall noted that in connection with his association with

Ruby, Hall visited him in what were apparently two places

of residence:

One was quite pretentious, where ruby lived alone;

the other residence was not nearly as elaborate but was a place

where Ruby apparently kept his files and records.

NH 54756 DocId: 32267344- Page: 34

---

## Page 35

Goal #3 - page 12

Hall stated that during the period he and Ruby were

associated Ruby always carried a gun and was engaged in handling

some gambling action in the Dallas area.

Hall claimed that

Ruby was also involved in some deals in Chicago and San

Francisco.

yeas.52 a.

?..:

HT 51756 Doeld:32267344 Page 35

---

## Page 36

IA 44-895

Mindink

HARRY HALL, a'ca

Harry Helfoott, Harrymller,

Harry, Hunt, Sidney, Brinn,

Thin

Sidney Brynn, sidney, Brin,

sidney: Bryn, Harry Sinclair, Jr.,

Ed Pauley, Jr.

FBI NO_ 2955393

HARRY HALL has volunteered information to the FBI.

at various times since 1950 and has characterized himself

as a gambler and sports promoter widely acquainted with

individuals in these fields.

On April 22, 1955 he was admitted to the California

State Prison on a forgery conviction of i to 14 years and

was paroled April 23, 1956.

On October 1, 1962 he was sentenced in U.S.

District Court to 30 months in the custody of the Attorney

General on charges of Obstruction of Justice, Iitle 18,

U. S. Code, Section 1503 and Interstate Transportation of

Siolen Property and Fraud By Wire, Title 18, U. S. Code,

Section 1343.

On July 12, 1952 in Superior Court, Los Angeles,

he was sentenced on a

felony non-sufficient check charge

to serve a l year sentence concurrent with the above listed

Federal charge.

He is currently serving his sentence at

the Federal Correctional Institution at Terminal Island,

California.

HALL is well known

In law enforcement circles

in Los Angeles, California, having acted in a capacity of

an Informant for most local and Federal agencies.

Contacts

With HALL by personnel of the FBI refleci that he has on

occasion attempted to further his own schemes as a confidence

man through his association with various law enforcement

agencies.

THROX

DEC 11 1963

41-1456-613

14. 54756 DooId: DooId:32267344

Page 36

---

## Page 37

1

11/30/63

Date

On November 11, 1903 HARRY HALl, an inmate at the

Federal Correctional Institution (FCI), Terminal Island,

California, was contacied in view of his request to the

Secret service at Los angeles, California on November 29, 1903

that he be contacted inasmuch

as ha felt he had information

of value concerning JACK RUBY of Dallas, Texas!

Present at

the interview was Special Agent in Charge GUY H. SPAMAN Of

the Secret Service, Los Angeles, California.

HALL advised that his reason for contacting law

enforcement was that he desired

to get out of FCI and before

he gave any information, he wanted some assurance of this

fact.

HALL was advised that no such assurances could

be given to him and if he had information it should be given

to the FBI immediately in view of the fact that to conceal

valuable information would in effect be obstructing the

current investigation with regard to JACK RUBY. HALL waS

advised

that the fast that he did furnish information would

be made known to the U.S. Attorney at Los Angeles for

whatever consideration

he might wish to granü to such an

act on the part of flAti.

He was definitely advised that no

promises of any kind could be made to him in this regara.

HALL advised that in about the latter part of

1952 or the early part of 1953 he first met JACK RUBY at

Dallas, Texas.

Hall was introduced to RUBY by his, HALL's,

uncle MARTY FIELD, whose real name is MARTY SCHVARTZ anc

vino is curcently a dealer at the Sands Hotél, Las Vegas,

HALL advised that at that time JAcK RUBY was

operating a club, the name of which IllLI could not recall,

but he advised that it looked sort of like a shed of some

kind and was located in a rather run down neighborhood and

RUBY charged admission to get into this particular club.

HALi advised that following his introduction to

RUBY, he became friendly with him inasmuch as he, HALl, vas

buSy

acting as a

promoter"

at that time and JACK RUBY had

a Negro entertainer in connection with whom he asked HALL

21/30/63.0t

Terminal Island, Californifile#

Los Angeles 44-895

SA WILLIAM JOHN NOLAN:MUG

11/30/63

Date dictated

J1o dorumont contans nellier recommendations nos conclustons of the Fit. lils the propesty of the fBl and ls doomed to

your egoncy; ll and lis contents are not lo be distributed outside your coency.

L:.

WH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Paue 37

---

## Page 38

IA 44-895

2

to see if he could get him a spot on the Ed Sullivan TV

show.

HALL advised that he never followed through on his

promise to RUBY in this regard.

HALL noted that in connection with his association

with RUBY, RUBY apparently had two places of residence, one

of which was quite pretentious and where RUBY lived alone.

The cther residence which HALL also visited, which would be

abou: 1953, was nos nearly as elaborate as the first one,

but was a place where RUbY apparently kept his files and

records.

HALL advised that at one time he went with RUBY

to this particuiar domicile and RUBY picked up a manila

envelope and took it with him to his club. HAlL noted

that during this period, RUBY had a gun with him at all times.

HALL advised that he has no particular Inowledge of weapons

and could only identify the weapon that he saw in RUBY's

possession at that time as a long-barreled gun.

HAIL advised that at this time in the Dallas area

he, HALL, had a good thing going. He had gone to Dallas

and was utilizing the name of HARRy SCLAIR.

Mie and upon

arrival in Dallas, he had contacted a wealthy individua

by the name of DICiS/ANDRADE, whose background HALI knew Chin

Irom contacts that

MLL had in Los Angeles.

HALL, posing

as a member of a wealthy oil family, was able to strike

up an association with ANDRADE and through him was able to

go to the Petroleum Club in the Baker Hotel, Dallas, Texas.

HALL advised that he developed this association because of

the fact that ANDRADE had a reputation as a heavy bettor

and through his association with ANDRADE he was able to be

introduced and vouched for to ANDRADE's bookmaking source at

montreal, Canada. This then enabled HALl to place extremely

large bets without utilizing any money.

HALL advised that he

tOO! JACK RUBY as his guest

to the Petroleum Club on one occasion and explained his set

up to RUBY, which Impressed RUBY very much.

RUBY, when he

learned of

the scheme that HALL was enploying, asked to be

cut in on it telling HALl, that as a

he would have

no chance at all in Dallas if he were arrested. I RUBY,

33

NH 54756 DocId:32267344 Page

38

---

## Page 39

IA 44-895

3

however, according to HALI, claimed that he, RUßY, at that

time had "plenty of juice"

Department and could take care of any squaves that might

come up from HALL's operation. HALL advised that he cut

RUBY in on a 60-40 split with RUBY providing a bank roll

of some several thousand dollars that could be utilized

to flash around in the presence of DICK ANDRADE.

HALL advised further that in connection with DICK

ANDRADE, RUBY advised him that he could get a couple of

guys from Chicago and they could set ANDRADE up which

would mean a good score for all of them, HALl clains that

he declined RUBY's offer in this regard.

•HALL advised that at a later time he again was in

the Dallas area and stopped in to see RUBY and he was

advised by a girl in RuBy's club that RUBY was in Chicago.

The girl gave Hali a telephone number where RUBY could be

reached, but HAll does not have this nunder now.

HALI, advised that he called RUBY at this number,

Which was a store

selling off-brand merchandise and located

on the west side of North State Street about a half block

south of Grand in Chicago, HALL advised that the individual

who ran this store, whose name he did not recall, had in

addition to the material that was on the shelves

in front,

guns for sale to those individuals desiring then.

This

individual also had a brother who was an ex-con and who,

according to HAlu, was running a similar shop some time

last

year, also in Chicago.

in talking with RUBy at this store,

HALL advised that RuBy told him he was buying some "schlock",

which term HALL defined as a bunch of ofi-brand junk. He

advised further that at this time RUBY was also engaged In

the Dallas area in handling gambling action.

It was at this point in the interview that HALL

advised that during his association with Ruby over a period

of some three years off and on, he became well acquainted

with the fact that RUbY was greatly addicted to fried chicken.

HH 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 39

---

## Page 40

IA 44-895

4

He advised further that the original spot that he recalled

being operated by RUBY sold fried chicken in a box. He

stated that this point came to mind when he saw news

coverage reflecting that the spot allegedly utilized by

IME HARVEY OSAID for his assassination of the President

"of the U. S. had had chicken remains leit behind.

HALL advised that following nis original introduction,

he was with JACK RUBY for a period of four months straight

and RUBY was always raising some issue about what kind of a

In this connection, HALL advised that some time

In the period between 1953 and April, 1955, he recalled

According to RUbY, HUNT had a son named

, which was

not generally known and who at that time was located in

Concord, Massachusetus, RUBY wanted to lay a trap for He t.

HUNt through HASSIE utilizing a scheme where HALl would

pose as a doctor.

HALL advised that this deai fell through

for some reason which he could not recall.

HALL also advised that he and JACK RUBY teamed

up at that period nen HALt was posing as HARRY SIlCLAIR,

JR. and beat some gamblers in Dallas, Texas for some

$70,000 to $30, 000, wnich they split 60-40 t0 HALL and RUBY

respectively.

HALI, advised that in order to build un his front,

he went into Nieman-Marcus at Dallas with RUBY and bought

a thousand dollars worth of clothes, which he paid for by

check issued in the name of HARRY SINCLAIR, JR.

With his

new wardrobe, HALi was able to contact those who haa been

taken by him

and RUBY and secured enough cash to go back

to the department sore the same date and retrieve the check

before it was deposited.

HN 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 40

---

## Page 41

I.1 44-895

5

HALL also recalled that he vent to Midlana,

Texas and stayed at a hotel whose name he recalled as the

Sharborough (phonetic) with JACK RUBY, aù which time he

noticed that JACK RUBY had four guns with him. HALL at

that time was still utilizing the name SINCLAIR.

He advised that the trip to lidland, Texas was

In connection with the scheme to get the $70,000 or

$80, 000 mentioned above.

Going back to DICK ANDRADE, MALI advised that

over a period of some months he and RUBY, utilizing

ANDRADE's betting contact at Montreal, were able to build

un a $5,000 credit. It was agreed that he and RUBY would

go to Montreal to collect and he recalled that he, halL,

proceeded to Hontreal and JACK RUBY stopped off at Chicago.

HALL recalled that he was paid off by an individual named

GORDON at Montreal and also that he, HALL, on several

occasions while staying in Montreal contacted RUBY at the

store previously mentioned, located on State Street in

Chicago.

HALI advised that he was able through good betting

at Montreal to build up the $5,000 to almost $20,000 and

he proceeded from Montreal and met JACK RUBY at the Devonshire

Hotel located on Ohio Street in Chicago. He advised that a

couple named OLITE and. PEIE (INU) were operating the hotel

at that time.

In connection with this particular time he advised

that he split the winnings with JACK RUBY and on one occasion

he went with RUBY to visit a joint run by BUZZY/RIVKIN. He

also recalls at that time that JACK RUBY met With one DAVE

"DINGY" HALPER, also of Chicago, and thinks that this

meeting took place at the club run by BuZZY RIVKIN.

HALL at this time corrected hinseli by advising

that he believed that RUBY met him at the Devonshire Hotel,

but was actually staying at the croydon.

HALL advised that

he, HALL, stayed aù the Palmer House, Chicago.

WH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 41

---

## Page 42

IA 44-895

HALL advised that following this visit to Chicago,

he and RUBY flew to Oklahoma City where they registered

at the Biltmore Hotel under the name HARRY SINCLAIR, JR.

They stayed there a couple of days and rented a car

visited the birth place of WILL ROGERS. He remembered

that there was a crap game running in that town that RuBY

knew about and between them, they took about 52,000 from

the gamblers there.

HALL recalled that they won this

money through some sort of a schene.. He also recalled

there vere other games at Shreveport, Louisiana following

this visit to Oklanoma where JACK RUBY played gin rummy

and lost quite a bit of money and gave the guy a check.

Tr:

HALI recalls that on another occasion he was

staying at the Dallas Athletic Club, utilizing the name of

SINCLAIR,aS a gUEST Of BUDDY: FOGELSON and DICK ANDRADE.

He advised that all the expenses for both he and RUBY on

this occasion were paid for by either FOGELSON or ANDRADE.

He advised that they were there for a period of some two

or three days

and were entertained by two girls who were

models from Nieman-Marcus

by ANDRADE.

piece and that JACK RUbY in a fit of temper had hit one

of the girls.

In recalling some of his contacts with RUBY,

HALI advised that some time in about 1954 or just prior to

his going to jail in California In April, 1955, JACK RUBY

had

gone to San Francisco and was going to see

• him on his

way back to Dallas.

He recalls that RUBY in going to San

Francisco, was going to see one "STONEY"

, a good Iriend of

MARTY FIELD, HALL'S unele.

He advised that STONEY was a

bookmaker, well known in the San Francisco area and was

also engaged in meeting boats at the docks to buy various

smuggled

goods from the seamen. Also he recalled that JACK

RUBY in the San Francisco area was in contact with either

HECKIE Or SALIY SCHUMAN about some deal which Hall did not

/mow about. He advised that HECKIE SOHUMAN is a well-nown

bookmaker in san Franaisco

HH 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 42

---

## Page 43

LA

44-895

Another-incident concerning RUBY concerned

one BILI/ BYERS, a friend of ANDRADE's.

BYERS usually

played gin runny at the Petroleum Club in Dallas and thinking

HALL was a wealthy oilman himself, gave HALL a piece of his

action in playing gin rummy to the amount of 25 percent of

the winnings.

HALL recalled that when RUBY visited him in

Ios ingeles, he made a proposition to HALL that BYERS

usually carried from $40,000 to $50,000 around with him at

all times and ii HALL could come up with infornation showing

he was making a trip anywhere alone, if HAlI would pass the

information along to RUBY, RUBY had a couple of guys who

would hit BYERS and split the proceeds 50-50. HAll said he

agreed to, this deal, but his prison term in 1955 interferea.

However, he heard later that BIERS had been held up or

burglarized

a few years later while staying at the Del

Charro at Del Mar, California.

He also recalled a deal which concerned a

New Years Day when he, FAlL, went to Fort Worth, Texas

and posing as be PAUlaX, IR., had contacted H. I. HUNT and

bet him $1,000 on five different bowl games. He advised

that RUBY was in this scam with him and that he, HALL,

won all five games.

He advised that he does not recall

the exact year, but two of the games thai he does recall

are Texas-Tennessee in the Cotton Bowl and Michigan-

California in the Rose Bowl. He aavised that they collected

$5,000 Iron HUNT which they spllt 50-40.

HALI advised that he has not had any direct

contact with JACK RUSy since about 1955, although he visited

the Carousel Club last year while in Dallas and was surprised

to see the prosperity that was surrounding RUBY since he

had previously seen him.

RUBy at that time, however, was

not in town and Hali did not see him.

HalL advised that it was his opinion from his

HW 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 43

---

## Page 44

IA 44-895

contacts and knowledge of RUBY that RUBY had some strong

motivation for his shooting of LEE HARVEY OSWALD and that

the only motivation that he, HALL, could attribute to RUBY

was money or the fear that OSWALD possibly might involve

RUBY in the assassination of the President of the U.S.

He admitted this was pure speculation on his part and made

the offer that he would be willing to go to Dallas, Texas

and neet RuBy and was sure that from such a meeting that

he could learn from RUBY what motivated him to shoot and

kill OSWALD.

14 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 44

---

## Page 45

Forn' So. Joss (Perised)

(7-1-50))

UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE

TREASURY DEPARTMENT

CDÜI 4S Y

003703

FILE NO, 1-3-601.0

TITLE OR CAPTION

Jack Ruby - PRS Subject

ORIGIN

Field

TYPE OF CASE

OFFICE

STATUS

Protective Research

Closed

INVESTIGATION MADE AT

Los ingeles, California

INVESTIGATION MADE BY

SAIC Guy H. Spaman & Sa Darwin D. Horn

DETAILS

Los Angeles, Cajifornia

PERIOD COVERED

11/29/63-11/30/63

DETAILS OF INVESTIGATION

On the aîternoon of November

from a man tno said he was Irving tassidy.

X. 1963, SAIC Spamen received a phone call

Mr. Cassidy said that he had just

visited Herry Hall in Terminal Island Federal Reformatory, Los Angeles, and

•Mr. Hail asked that Mr. Cassidy call SAIC Spaman to tell nir that Harry Hall had

information concerning Jack Ruby from Dallas, Texas, and would like to talk with

the Secret Service.

Harry Fall was an intomant for the los Angeles Orfice several vears as fe

giving infomation which resulted in the seizure of a counterfeiting plant.

has since given infornation to the Intelligence Division of the Treasury and the

Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Harry Hall is serving a sentence of 30 months in Terminal Isiand for de-

frauding boxing promoter Truman Gibson of a large sun of money. His confidence

scheme Involved forging United States Attorney Francis (helan's signature and

other fraudulent Federal papers resulting in his conviction in Federal Court

after an investigation by the FBI.

On the same date SA Horn interviewed Harry Hall at Perininal Island Toiorna-

tory in the presence of a prison official. Hall stated that he had had business

Secret Service Office.

it pan a ho cole be edin one i rentine Yone to the

the

On November 30, 1963: SAIC Spanan discussed this natter with Inspector

Kolloy at Dallas, Texas, advising Inspector Kelley that Harry fall had been of

assistonce to other agencies in addition to the Sucrot Service, and that his in-

formation in many cases had been reliable.

DISTRIBUTIGN

COPIES

iei

JuS ngeles

Dallas

Orig.

CC

2 CC

REPORT MADE BY,

ince

Guy H. Spanan

APPROVED

DATE

SPeed gen in

Charge

12/4/63

DATE

454

GHS: sr

SPECIAL AGENT HE CHARGE

HH 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 45

(CONTINUE ON PLAIN PAPER)

---

## Page 46

4-3-601.0

Page ?

SAIC Spaman discussed with Inspector Kelley the advisability of intervieving

Hall with an FBI agent, inasruch as the FBI had been in close contact with Hall

recently, and Hall vas in the custody of the Department of Justice.

Inspector

Kelley agreed to this procedure.

SAIC Spaman then made arrangements with

SAC Willian Simon, FBI, Los Angeles, for SA killiam Knowland, FBI, to meet with

Spanan at Terninal Island.

On November 30, 1963, SAIC Spanan and SA Knowland, FBI, interviewed Harry

Hall at lemminal Island introut prison officials being present. Hall stated that

Texas.

it that time Ruby ran a small cheap bar and night club in Dallas. Harry

318665

games or horse races.

His method of operation at that time was to use the name of a well known per-

son and ingratiate himself with persons with money.

He would then make bets or

ganble putting over fictitious checks if he lost and leaving town. Ruby on occasion

provided all with oankroll and introduced hin to likely victims, with Ruby

taking 40, of any,deal while Hall collected 60%..

Ruby's cut les because he was

suprosed to huve influence with the nolice, so that ne would have no vorry about

any ganbling arrest.

Hall said that during this period through influential people, he was able to

meet in Dallas, he was able to place bets with a bookie in Montreal by telephone,

winning about $5,000.

Ruby and Hall then went to Chicago enroute to Montreal io

collect their winnings, but Ruby remained in Chicago vhile Hall tent to Montreal

and collected the money, returning to join Ruby in Chicago.

At that time Ruby was staying at the Devonshire Hotel on the near rorth side

in Chicago, while Hall stayed at the Palmer House. During their stay in Chicago

Ruby visited and seemed quite friendly with a man no had a store which sold what

Hall called "schlox" meaning off-brand merchandise similar to expensive appliances,

This man's store vas located on the west side of State street/in the middle

of the block south of Grand.

This man was supposed to be able to get for a person

any tino of merchandise that a person wanted.

Hall dia not know wat Ruby's dealings

wore with this man. They returned to Dallas by war of Tulsa. Olahona, where Ruby

seoned to have rood conractions in gambling circles, and Shreveport, Louisiana,

where. Ruby had similar good connections.

Il stated that there was a lexas millionaire named Bill Byers, was came from

Tyre texas, who was friendly with two other Texas millionaires named'jiurchison

and indruddy.

Bill. Byers circulated between Texas and Los Angeles.

Ruby knew that

Byers cared large suas of money with him and wanted llall, who also knew Byers,

to find out when Byers would be alone.

Ruby said he had a couple of men no rould

hold Fiers up without injuring him, and that Ruby and Hall could divide whatever

45i

HH 54756 DooId:32267344 Page. 46

---

## Page 47

CO:?

13-601.0

• Page 3

money Dyers had.

note to a the Ta do oy at torn.

This hotel is oned by fir. Hurchison.

tall further stated that some time duriy

this scriod, while he

going

under the name of Harry Sinclair, Jr. or Ed Paular.

_another

Tezes nillionaire: that he and luby bet funt on the Cotion Bowl and Rose Bol

ganes, winning a large sun of noner from furt, which they split.

Hall stated that also during this time he ard Puby came to los ingeles and

Schuman on some deal.

These mer vere supposed to be known

rackeieers or ganolers in San Francisco.

Hall stated that one time when he vas

associating with Ruby, he recalls that Ruby said inat he was going to florida to

buy a load of "contraband" to send to Israel. Hall said that uoy was the type

who was interested in any way ta make moner and seong to have good contacts ith

the police.

He said that he could not conceive of liuby doing anything out of

patriotisn.

Hall further stated that he was acquainted with one Eugenia Elson, who is a

manicurist at the Beverly Wilshire Hotel, los Angeles.

He said she has a son,

Eugene, who is & or 9 years old. She was

born in Russia and fomerly lived in

Dallas, being married to a wealthy Dallas man whom she has since divorced. Hall

that this woman, he believed, had sone Russian friends in Dallas.

He said

he knei of no connection between her and Ruby.

Hall stated that he was sentenced to Staic ?eloratory, Chino, California,

in 1955 for checks, being releasea in 195ó. ile said all of the aoove information

related to events before that time; that he hed no dealings or no contact with

Ruby since 1955.

However, he stated that he was close enough io Ruby so that if

he vere pomitted to talk to Ruby he believed he could persuade him to tell the

whole story.

S. Knowland stated that the infoination he secured at this joirt questioning

of Hall would be teletyped to their Dallas Office.

DISPOSITICN

Closed Los Angeles.

45÷

HH 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 47

---

## Page 48

Commission No.

Ruby, Jack i

7221

Item S

On Augusi 11, 1953, Special Agent Raluh J. Miles

chanced to be in tho office of Vincent ine, Branch

Managei,

American Guild of Vasioty Artists, 1818 Live Oak Sureet,

Dallas, lexas, on official business.

An individual laier

identifica by li. Lee as jack Ruby, operator of the silvei

blusiering into Lee's office.

Spuz, 1717 South Eryay Street, Buby demanded of Lee that

lee supply fuby with some "gizls" to pui on cnicziainmoni

at his Silver Souz.

ice toid luby that Fuby would have to

pui un a cash bond to guaranice the giris! salary whereupon

Ruby vegas io curse lee, claining that he was short on money

and thai Lee did not make his, ruby's, competitors put up

such a cash bond.

Lee maintained Chai he still could nou

furnish girl eniertainers to Ruby unless Ruby pui up couc

cask at which tire

Puby acose and in a threatening tone oi

voice asked Lee:

"Do you want to know wether or noi i'm

packing a gua?"

, and "Thai are you trying to do, be

a tough

guy 22 Dallas?

Well, I'm just as tough as they come" or

words to that effeci.

prit

410/197

that Ruby considered hinseli a very tough dallas

character and vas an associate of

Joe Bonds, operatoi ci

Sly Club, whe was also a "rough" character who bore a

grudge against nos because Lee one time aciempled to colleas

= $700.00 bad check Bonds had given a girl eniertainer ai

which time either Bonds of one of his henchmen had struck

Ica across the foranead with à pistol.

Lee continued trat

both tuby and Bonds always carried concealed pisiois and

vere in constant association with james Robert Todd, betier

Known 25 Jack lode,

FBI number 1805303, Dallas Police

Depacemen: nunber 22255, a well-known Dallas saic-cracker.

lee informed that Ruby, Bonds and Todd, together with other

hoodlums and sale-crackers,

whose identities were unknown to

Lee, usually hung around Sue's Üsed Car Lot, 3400 Live Oak,

Dallas, Texas.

HH 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 48

---

## Page 49

ANTONIO DE VARONA CHRONOLOGY

Early background:

1924

1940

1944

1947

October 1947

1952

1959

August 1960

August 25, 1960

September 1960

Educated as an attorney. Exiled

three times from Cuba.

Beginning of various political

activities.

Initiated the uprising

which eventually: overthrew Gerardo

Machado.

Elected congressman from Camaguey

Province.

Elected senator.

Appointed leader of the parliamentary

committee of his party.

Appointed Prime Minister under

Carlos Prio.

Batista overthrows Prio; de Varona

begins fight against Batista.

Castro takes over; de Varona recognizes

communistic leanings, flees into exile.

Bissell and Edwards have discussion

concerning use of underworld figures

to aid in assassination of Castro.

Reports of de Varona's recent visit

to U.S. indicate he allegedly

solicited funds from Las Vegas

gamblers.

Sheffield Edwards, CIA Director of the

Office of Security, designates the task

of putting the plan to kill Castro into

operation to the CIA Support Chief,

James O' Connell.

O'Connell initiates

contact with Robert Maheu.

Maheu brings

in John Roselli, who quickly brings in

Sam Giancana and

Santo Trafficante.

NW 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 49

---

## Page 50

Antonio de Varona chronology. • page 2

September 14, 1960

September 14, 1960

Week of

September 25, 1960

September 27, 1960

October 8, 1960

October 18, 1960

Antonio de Varona arrives in New

York City from Mexico City.

James O'Connell meets with Roselli

and Maheu at the Plaza Hotel in New

York City.

James O'Connell, Maheu and Roselli

meet in Miami with Giancana and

Trafficante.

De Varona appointed coordinator of

the FRD.

De Varona reportedly interested in

mounting operations as political

favor for contacts with non-FRD

supporters.

Memo from J. Edgar Hoover to

intelligence agencies detailing

Giancana's statements about an

imminent Castro assassination plot.

Early 1961

January 2, 1961

January 18, 1961

A CIA official met with a highly

placed Cuban official to determine

if the Cuban would cooperate in

efforts against the Castro regime

(I.G. Report, p.78) .

The Cuban

was referred to by the cryptonym

AM/ LASH.

Lewis McWillie returns to the U.s.

from Cuba.

FBI memorandum indicates that a Cuban

was associated with anti-Castro

activities financed by U.s. racketeers,

including Santo Trafficante. This

same Cuban was subsequently

used by

Roselli in the second passage of

pills to Cuba in April 1962.

HH 54756 " DocId: 32267314 Page 50

---

## Page 51

Antonio de Varona chronology... page 3

January 23, 1961

February 1961

Late February 1961

or March 1961

March 13, 1961

March or April 1961

April 15-17, 1961

April 18, 1961

FBI reports indicate "Gambling

elements in the U.S. have offered to

contribute as high as 2 million

dollars to finance the anti-Castro

operations of de Varona and the

organization which he represents,

apparently in the hope of getting

in on the ground floor should Castro

be overthrown." The Cellini family

reportedly in contact with de Varona

through public relations man

Edward K. Moss of Washington, D.C.

"It was through this channel

that

the offer of financial assistance

was made."

James O'Connell received the poison

pills from the Technical Services

Division, and then gave them to

Roselli.

Roselli reported to O'Connell that

the pills had been delivered to an

official close to Castro who may

have received kickbacks from the

gambling interests.

The official

returned the pills after two weeks,

perhaps because he had lost his

position in the Cuban government.

FBI report indicates information re-

ceived that the CIA paying de Varona

$300,000 per month for the FRD.

Roselli told O'Connell that

Trafficante knew of a man higher up

in the Cuban exile movement who

might do the job.

He was identified

as de Varona, leader of the

Democratic Revolutionary Front.

De Varona was believed to have

assets inside Cuba.

The Bay of Pigs invasion fails.

Maheu tells the FBI of CIA involvement

in Las Vegas wire tap.

NW 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 51

---

## Page 52

Antonio de Varona chronology... page 4

April 19-20, 1961

May 18, 1961

May 22, 1961

July 21, 1961

September 15, 1961

November 1961

January 29, 1962

April 8, 1962

April 18, 1962

President Kennedy meets with

Cubans who escaped from the Bay of

Pigs.

One of the exiles, probably

de Varona, had been involved in

smuggling the poison pills for

the CIA/Mafia plot into Cuba.

The General Taylor/Kennedy Board

interviewed several Cuban exile

leaders who had been involved in

the Bay of Pigs, including the

leaders who had cooperated in the

assassination plot.

The subject of

the inquiry was the Bay of Pigs

operation.

Hoover memo to Attorney General

Kennedy noting CIA used Giancana in

"clandestine efforts" against Castro.

Special Group memo for the record

reports that the basic objective

regarding Cuba is to develop

opposition to Castro and to "bring

about a regime acceptable to the

United States."

CRC and ERD merge, with Jose Miro

Cardona as head, de Varona as

second in command.

William Harvey instructed to take

over the contact with John Roselli

as part of Project ZR/RIFLE;

Harvey takes over Mafia plots. He

counts Maheu out and deals directly

with Roselli.

CIA objects to prosecution of Maheu

for Las Vegas wire tap.

Harvey, O'Connell, and Roselli meet

for a second time in New York on

April 8-9 to set up the next

attempt on Castro

The Technical Services Division of

the CIA delivers the second bätch of

poison pills to O'Connell.

HM 54756 DooId:32267344

Paue 52

---

## Page 53

Antonio de Varona chronology... page 5

April 21, 1962

MaY 3, 1962

MaY 1962

June 1962

June 21, 1962

September 7, 1962

September 11, 1962

October 22-28, 1962

December 12, 1962

December 24,

1962

Harvey passes the poison pills to

Roselli in Miami.

Progress report to the Special

Group augmented on "agent

teams" and the general field of

intelligences. Harvey reported

that three agent teams had been

infiltrated.

Roselli passes the poison pills to

Cubans for transport to Cuba.

De Varona reportedly in Washington,

D.C. to speak to Republican senators

regarding the CRC and Cuban exiles.

De Varona was asked why he was

doing this as it would put the

CRC in a bad position with the

Kennedy administration.

De Varona

said it would be justified if it

caused the administration to do

something drastic. Cardona reportedly

was

"furious."

Roselli tells Harvey that a six-man team

has been dispatched to Cuba.

Harvey meets Roselli in Miami. The

Cuban was reported to be preparing

to send in another three-man team

to penetrate Castro's bodyguard.

Harvey

was told that the pills were

still "safe" in Cuba.

Harvey and Roselli confer in Miami

regarding the status of the plots.

Cuban Missile Crisis. Harvey orders

agent teams into Cuba to support any

United States military action that

might occur.

In a meeting with the Honduran

President and other Cuban exile

leaders,de Varona makes the

statement that the CIA is responsible

for the current lack of exile

activity and is working behind the

back of Kennedy

Brigade 2506- survivors return to the

United States President Kennedy

addresses the Cuban exiles in the

football stadium in Miami

HN 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page: 53

---

## Page 54

Antonio de Varona chronology.. •page 6

February 1963

March 1963

April 22, 1963

April 23,

1963

April 29, 1963

June 1963

June 22, 1963

June 24, 1963

The Mafia plot is ended, according

to Harvey.

Roselli claims the Castro

assassination plots ended.

Meetings held regarding dissolution

of the CRC.

De Varona advocated an

"open door" policy for the CRC,

which would admit Cuban individuals

rather than organizations into the

CRC as a method for promoting unity.

De Varona said it had been decided

not to dissolve the CRC and replace

it with a new organization because

the CRC is an established organization

well known in this hemisphere.

Meeting held to advise de Varona

of the liquidation of the CRC.

FBI report indicates

de Varona rejected an offer to

continue to receive a monthly

salary after liquidation of the CRC.

De Varona also reportedly would not

agree to disband the CRC.

Harvey and Roselli meet. Harvey

said this meeting was a going-away

dinner since he had been transferred

overseas and would not be seeing

much of Roselli anymore.

Antonio Maceo resigns as head of

CRC after protesting CRC announcement

concerning landing of infiltration

groups in Cuba.

FBI files indicate

Maceo was reportedly told the episode

was a propaganda gimmick to put the

CRC in a favorable light. Maceo

did not want to be the "fall guy"

when the affair goes sour.

De Varona continuing CRC despite

pullout of CIA interest and

resignations of Jose Miro Cardona and

Antonio Maceo. CRC reiterates and

confirms public statement announcing

landing and infiltration into Cuba

of some commando units. CIA reports

indicate "Bayo-Pawley" raid may have

been CRC plan.

HH 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 54

---

## Page 55

Antonio de Varona chronology... page 7

September 7, 1963

October 29, 1963

November 14, 1963

November 16, 1963

November 22, 1963

June 10, 1964

June 1964

Early 1965

April 1965

June 1965

CIA case officers have their first

meeting with Cubela (AM/LASH)

since the Bay of Pigs.. Cubela says

he is interested in doing an

"inside job" and awaits a plan of

action from the u.s.

Fitzgerald meets AM/LASH and promises

him that the U.s. would support a

coup against Castro.

De Varona arrived in New Orleans and

stayed at the home of Augustin

Guitart, assistant delegate of the

New Orleans CRC. Guitart is also

the Rescate delegate in New Orleans,

according to Frank Bartes, CRC

delegate. De Varona was reportedly

invited to bolster the morale of

the New Orleans Cuban exiles.

De Varona supposed to proceed to

Houston, Texas where, reportedly,

his son resides.

Fitzgerald and the case officer

meet with Cubela and offer him the

poison pen.

Helms memo to McCone stating that

Agency officials had learned of

several plots by Cuban exiles to

assassinate Castro and other. Cuban

leaders.

CRC disbanded officially.

CIA cable states that B-l had given

Cubela a silencer and that Cubela

had small, highly concentrated

explosives.

De Varona reportedly continues as

head öf Rescate but not very active

and encountering financial

difficulties.

CIA terminates all contact with

AM/LASH and his associates for

reasons related to security.

HW 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 55

---

## Page 56

I.. VARONA'S ROLE AS A LEADER IN THE CUBAN EXILE MOVEMENT

In June 1960, establishment of an "umbrella" group

of anti-Castro Cuban exiles got underway in Mexico City

with the full support and assistance of the Central Intelli-

gence Agency and with the aim of unifying major anti-Castro

Cuban exiles for constructive action. The organization

became known by the name Frente Revolucionario Democratico

(FRD) or the "Revolutionary Council." Five major groups

made up the initial core of the organization: TripleA,

led by Sanchez Arango; Asociacion Montecristi, led by Justo

Carillo; Movimento Revolucionario de Recuperacion, led

by Manuel Artime; Movimento Democratico Cristiano, led

by Jose Ignacio Rasco; and Rescate, headed by "Tony" de

Varona.

Because of Varona's stature as former President of

the Cuban Senate and Prime Minister under Carlos Prio,

he quickly assumed a lead position in the FRD as Coordinator.

Despite ongoing struggles within the FRD and its successor

group, the Cuban Revolutionary Council, which often

led to reshuffling of the leadership, Varona established

a firm and permanent foothold in the organization while continuing

to engage in independent exile activity.

In October 1960, the FRD moved to Miami to accelerate

plans for dissemination of propaganda, recruiting for

military training at camps in Guatemala, purchase of arms,

boats and communications equipment for infiltration into

: NH 54756 Docid 32267341 Page 56

---

## Page 57

VARONA

page 2

Cuba in preparation for the invasion. When

Varona was elected chairman of the Executive Commitee,

Sanchez Aran go withdrew from the FRD in protest, and it

was

decided to broaden the political base of the organization.

Antonio Maceo, Carlos Hevia, and other leaders were added.

Another shakeup occurred following efforts by State

Department officials and interested members of the Kennedy

administration to include Manolo Ray and his group, the MRP,

in the FRD. The dispute centered on ERD leadership

objections to Ray's leftist leanings and late departure

from Cuba; the MRP was said to have singled out Varona

in particular as the reason for their reluctance to join.

There were charges that Varona was setting up his own

private following within the organization by putting his

own men in key positions; by his power over the FRD purse

strings; and through his Rescate group, which he kept active

even after the dissolution of the CRC in 1964. Complaints

were also made that Varona was using funds for his own

personal use.

However, differences were worked out and Jose

Miro Cardona joined, while Ray split off from the group

to form JURE in Puerto Rico. Cardona was given the lead

role on the Executive Committee to smooth the division.

resulting from the Varona-Ray disputes.: Over Varona's

objections Cardona appointed Manuel Artime as the liaison

between the Executive Committee and the Brigade 2506 which

ariani

HW. 54756 DocId:32267344Page 57

---

## Page 58

VARONA

page 3

was then training in Guatemala for the invasion. Yet

Varona's favorable opinion of the Brigade training was

crucial, according to E. Howard Hunt, to insure the

solidarity between the Brigade and the FRD following

a visit to the camps in the Executive Committee.

Not only was Varona's relationship to the rank

and file strained, he was equally often at odds with his

CIA sponsors and fellow FRD leadership for his frequent

independent manueverings. FBI files for January 1961

reflect that Varona was approaching non-FRD leaders regarding

the establishment of a provisional government, but conducting

these negotiations without the knowledge of the other

Executive Committee members. Hunt chastised Varona for

an operation Rescate members tried to pull off without

CIA knowledge or approval, according to Hunt's book,

Give Us This Day•

During the time that Varona became involved in CIA plots

with organized crime figures, he may also have had contact

with Mafia types for his own interests. (See Organized Crime memo) .

A Department of Justice memo for January 23, 1961,

indicates information was received that Varona had been

contacted by the Cellini brothers, who were probably fronting

for gambling interests, with an offer to contribute.

financially to anti-castro operations.

On March 22, 1961, less than a month before the Bay

of: Pigs invasion, the FRD was phased out with the announce-

WH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 58

---

## Page 59

VARONA

page 4

ment of the organization of the Cuban Revolutionary Council,

the political branch of the invasion plans whose members would

make up the provisional government after Castro's fall.

Miro Cardona was made President, Varona remained coordinator,

and even Manolo Ray joined as Chief of Sabotage and Internal

Affairs until after the April fiasco.

Following the invasion, government subsidies of the

CRC continued until March 1963, but hopes for wholesale

invasion dimmed as the U.S. goverment became increasingly

less cooperative about raids into Cuba emanating from U.s.

territory. These raids were specifically prohibited in a

statement from the Attorney General in April of 1963.

At this time, also, dissolution of the CRC was seriously

discussed. Jose Miro Cardona stepped down from his post

as president and U.S. goverment support was withdrawn. A

policy allowing for individuals to join the group-oriented

organization was set up by Varona. . Antonio Maceo was

made President. However, an internal flap in June of 1963

over. CRC announcements of a successful infiltration raid

into Cuba caused Maceo to submit his resignation. Agency

files indicate the Bayo-Pawley raid, which took place

in mid-June, may have been set up as a CRC "gimmick" to

attract favorable publicity.

Varona took over the skeletal CRC until its final

dissolution in June 1964.

We do not know much about

specific ventures undertaken between June 1963 until the

assassination in November:

However, CRC representatives

MH 54756. DocId: 32267344 Page 59

---

## Page 60

VARONA

page 5

continued to maintain offices in New Orleans. (CRC

offices, in fact, had been located for a short time in

1962 at the same address as was stamped on some of Lee

Harvey Oswald's Fair Play for Cuba literature, 544 Camp St.)

Varona reportedly visited the New Orleans delegation

on November 16, 1963 and stayed with Augustin Guitart,

a CRC assistant delegate and Rescate delegate for the New

Orleans. (Guitart is the uncle of Sylvia odio).

Varona continued his activities with the Rescate

group for several years after the CRC was disbanded.

MH 54756 DocId:32267344

Page 60

---

## Page 61

OBJECTIVE

GOAL #1

To determine Antonio de Varona's role in the

activities of Central Intelligence Agency-sponsored

and privately-funded anti-Castro Cuban groups,

including all assassination attempts.

LINE OF QUESTIONING

.A. RESCATE

1. Pre-Castro Era

a. Dates in existence

b. Personnel

c. Political Alignment

d. Major Activities

2. Anti-Castro Era

a. Dates in existence

•b. Personnel

c. Political Alignment

d. Major activities

e. Association with the Frente Revolucionario

Democratico

f. Activities performed independent of the

Frente Revolucionario Democratico

g. Association with other anti-Castro groups

B.

Nature and extent of Antonio de Varona's

involvement in the Frente Revolucionario Democratico

1. Role in formation of Frente Revolucionario

HW 54756 Docid:32267344

Page 61

---

## Page 62

Democratico.

a. Date when begun

b. Coordinators

c. Sponsors

d. Personnel

e. Political Alignment

f. Training headquarters

g. Major Activities

h. Association with other groups

C. Nature and extent of Antonio de Varona's

involvement in the Cuban Revolutionary Council

1. Role in formation of Cuban Revolutionary Council

a. Date when begun

b. Coordinators

c. Sponsors/Funding

d. Personnel

e. Political Alignment

f. Training Headquarters

g. Major Activities

h. Association with other groups

2. Knowledge of relationship between the Cuban

Revolutionary Council and its New Orleans branch

a. Contact with Cuban Revolutionary Delegates

i.-Luis Rabel.

ii. Sergio Arcacha Smith

jii. Arnesto Rodriguez

-iv. Manüel Gil

v. Frank Bartes

NH 54756 DocId:32267344 Page: 62

---

## Page 63

vi. Nature of his stay at Augustin Guitart's home

b. Knowledge of attempts to establish training

camps in Lake Pontchartrain near New Orleans, Louisiana.

i. Funding

ii. Personnel

iii. Federal Bureau of Investigation Bust

3. Role, if any, of Cuban Revolutionary Council

in the Bayo-Pawley raid.

a. Knowledge regarding announcement of raid into

Cuba in June of 1964.

b. Knowledge of resignation of Maceo from the Cuban

Revolutionary Council coinciding with the Bayo-Pawley Raid

D. Nature and extent of Antonio de Varona's knowledge

and association with the following: SEE ATTACHED

WW 54756 Docid: 32267344 Page 63

---

## Page 64

Nature and extent of Antonio de Varona's knowledge and

association with the following:

A. Alpha 66

1. Antonio Carlos Veciana Blanch

B. Segundo Frente Nacional de Escambray

1. Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo

2. Max Lesnick

C. Movimiento Revolucionario del Pueblo

1. Joaquin Godoy y Solis

2. Manuel Ray Rivero

3. Jose Miro Cardona

D. Agrupacion Montecristi

1. Jorge Nobregas

2. Francisco Carillo

E. JURE

1. Sylvia Odio

2. Rogelio Cisneros Diaz

3. Duney Perez Alamo

F. Cuba Libre

1. Carlos Zarraga Martinez

2. Carlos Hernandez Sanchez

G. Comandos L

1. Antonio Cuesta del Valle

2. Lawrence LaBorde

3. Luis Balbuena

4. Santiago Alvarez Fernandez

5. Santiago Alvarez Rodriguez

NH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 64-

---

## Page 65

H. Cuban Revolutionary Council

1. Sergio Arcacha Smith

2. Frank Bartes

3. Antonio Maceo Mackle

4. Manuel Gil

5. Carlos Quiroga

•1. Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil

1. Carlos Bringuier

2. Juan Manuel Salvat Roque

3. Jose Antonio Lanusa

4. Ross. Crozier

J. Movimiento Democrata Cristiano

1. Laureano Batista Falla

2. Jose Ignacio Rasco Bermuda

3. Richard Rudolph Davis

4. Victor Paneque

K. Movimiento Revolucionario Treinta de Noviembre

1. Carlos Rodriguez Quesada

L. Junta de Gobierno de Cuba en el Exilio

1. Paulino A. Sierra Martinez

2. Reinaldo Pico

M. International Anticommunist Brigade/ Interpen

1. Gerald Patrick Hemming

2. Howard Kenneth Davis

3. Frank Sturgis

4. Roy Emory Hargraves

NH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Päge 65

---

## Page 66

5. Lawrence Howard

6. William Seymour

7. Manolo Aguilar

8. Dennis Lynn Harber

9. Pedro Diaz Lanz

10. Marcos Diaz Lanz

11. Mike. McLaney

12. Richaed Watley

13. Max Gorman Gonzalez

14. William Johnson

N. Movimiento Insurreccional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria

1. Orlando Bosch

0. Ejercito Cubano Anticomunista

1. Evelio Duque Miyar

P. Centinelas de la Libertad

1. Luis Conte Aguero

Q. Veteranos de la Bahia de Cochinos, Brigade 2506

1. Bernardo de Torres

2. Frank Castro

R. Ejercito Invasor Cubana

1. Francisco Rodriguez Tamayo = "El Mexicano"

2. Eduardo Sotolongo Medina

3.. Alberto Hernandez Hechevarria

S. Movimiento de Recuperacion Revolucionario

1. Manuel Artime

2. Higinio Diaz

3. Ricardo Lorie

4. Sergio Sangenis

N: 54756 Docid: 32267344.

Page. 66

---

## Page 67

T. Carlos Blanco Group

1. Joachim Sangenis

2. Juan Antonio Varona

U. Miscellaneous

1. Sanchez Arango

2. Manuel Rodriguez Orcabarro

3. Spruille Braden

4. Carlos de Varona y Segura

5. Alberto Muller y Quintana

• 6. Ramon Barquin Canterio

7. Rufo Lopez Fresquet

8. Santiago Babun

9. Rafael Gener "Macho"

10. Maurice Bishop

11. David Morales

12. Riccardo Morales

13. Luis Pichardo

14. Cesar Diosdado

15. Julio Lobo

16. Carlos Prio

17. Loran Hall

18. Rolando Otero

19: Juan Tapia Adames

20. Sam Kail

21. Mitchell Warbell

22. David Ferrie

23. Norman Rothman

HW 54756. DocId:32267344

Page 67

---

## Page 68

24. Manolo Reboso

25. Andrew St. George

26. Alexander Rorke

27. Lee Harvey Oswald

28. Earl T. Smith

29. Jack Ruby

30. Wallace Shanley

31. Marcos Perez Jimenez

32. Kerry Thornley

33. Eladio del Valle

34. John Martino

35. Nathaniel Weyl

36. Justin McCarthy

37. Clare Booth Luce

38. Howard L. Hunt

39. Jim Noel

40. Richard Lauchli

41. Jose Aleman

42. James Buchanan

43. verry Buchanan

44. James Cogswell

45. William Pawley

46. Eduardo Perez (Bayo)

47. Meyer Lansky

48. Marita Lorenz

49. Luis Posada

50. Grayson Lÿnch

NY 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 68

---

## Page 69

51. Rolando Masferrer

52. Jorge Soto Martinez

53. Victor Espinosa Hernandez

54. Robert McKeown

55. Amador Odio

56. Howard Hughes

57. Joseph Shilmon

58. Agustin Guitart

59. Martin Fox

60. Oscar Echevarria

61. Enrique Garcia

62. Evaristo Garcia Vidal

63. Raul Gonzales Jerey

64. Roberto Fernandez Miranda

65. Frank Ragano

66. Dominick Bartone

67. Henry Saavedra

68. Edward Whitehouse

69. William Morgan

70. Charles Tourine

71. Dino Cellini

72. Santo Trafficante

73. Donald Edward Browder

74. Joe Merola

75. Sam Giancana

76. John Rosselli

N#. 54756 DooId:32267344

Page 69

---

## Page 70

II. DE VARONA 'S ORGANIZED CRIME BACKGROUND

In the fall of 1960, the CIA recruited

John Roselli,

a Las Vegas mobster, to plan and execute an assassination

of Fidel Castro.

Having only limited contacts with the

Cuban exile community, Roselli and his Chicago mentor,

Sam Giancana, contacted Santo Trafficante, in Miami, Florida

to arrange for Cuban activists. Initial plans proved

unproductive and Trafficante was then requested to furnish

an alternative course of action.

In March or April of 1961, Roselli told the CIA Support

Chief, James O'Connell, that Santo Trafficante knew of

a man higher up in the Cuban exile movement who might

assist them in assassinating Castro. This man was

identified as the leader of the Democratic Revolutionary

Front (FRD) and, therefore, probably was Antonio de Varona.

De Varona was given the poison pills to pass on to assets

within Cuba, but this plot was aborted due to the Bay

of Pigs invasion.

There is some indication that de Varona was also

involved with organized crime individuals prior to April

of 1961. A memorandum from the Director of the FBI to the

Attorney General, dated January 23, 1961, reports that

the FBI has received information that "gambling elements

in the United States have offered to contribute as high as

two

million dollars to finance the anti-castro operations

N4 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 70

---

## Page 71

II.. De Varona OC Background... page 2

of de Varona and the organization which he represents..."

This memorandum contains information that de Varona may

have received financial backing from Dino Cellini through

Edward K. Moss.

Dino Cellini is an organized crime figure

who had had some business interests in Cuba. His sister,

Julia Cellini, was alleged to be Moss's mistress. Two

FBI memoranda, dated December 21, 1960 and January 18, 1961,

refer to the Cuban who was involved in the passage of the

poison pills in March or April of 1961. The memos state

that this Cuban was associated with anti-Castro activities

financed by U.S. racketeers, including Santo Trafficante,

who hoped to secure illegal monopolies in the event of a

Castro overthrow.

After the Bay of Pigs, William Harvey resumed the

Castro/Mafia assassination plots. In April of 1962, he

passed some poison pills to Roselli, who probably gave them

to de Varona. In June, Roselli told Harvey that a six-man

team had been dispatched to Cuba. In August of 1962,

the Cuban was reported to be preparing to send in another

three-man team to penetrate Castro's bodyguard.

De Varona

is probably the Cuban referred to as arranging these teams.

It was logical that the American syndicate would attempt

to assist de Varona and to acquire his favor, since de Varona

NIH 54756 DocId: 32267344

Page 71

---

## Page 72

II.

De Varona OC Background.. • page 3

was an important leader of the Cuban exiles who would

probably have held a key position in a new Cuban government

should the plots succeed. De Varona also had the added

attraction of CIA support, and by inference, the Agency's

approval. It was also logical that de Varona would value

organized crime support since they could easily supply

financial backing, arms, and other support required to

overthrow Castro.

TH 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 72

---

## Page 73

OBJECTIVE

GOAL #2

To determine de Varona's role in the CIA/Mafia Castro

assassination plots and to determine de Varona's relationship

to and involvement with organized crime figures.

LINE OF QUESTIONING

A. Nature and extent of de Varona's involvement in the

CIA/Mafia plots

1. Pre-Bay of Pigs: August 1960 - May 1961

a. CIA contacts and associations during

August 1960

b. Initial contacts regarding specific plots

to assassinate Castro (de Varona's trip from

Mexico to New York City in September of

1960 and the New York meeting of Roselli,

Maheu, and O'Connell on September 14;

Miami meetings)

c. CIA/American gambling contacts regarding

Castro assassination plots

1. Funding

2. Operations

23. Lines of communication

Support material and personnel

HN 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 73

---

## Page 74

Objectives... page 2

d.

Specific Operations

1. Poison

pills - January-February 1961

2. Cuban operatives

3. Reasons for failure of mission

4. Association with Juan Orta

2.

Bay of Pigs

a. Specific role in the Bay of Pigs

b. Relationship with E.H. Hunt (Edward or

Eduardo Hamilton)

c. Contact with American gamblers regarding

the Bay of Pigs

d. Role during the invasion

et"...

3.

Post-Bay of Pigs: May 1961 to June 1963

a.

Recontact by American gambling individuals

1. Meetings with Roselli, Trafficante, and

"Maceo."

2. Relationship with Rafael "Macho" Gener

b.

Actual Operations

1. Assassination squads

2. Approximate dates and outcome of

assassination attempts

c. Arrest and imprisonment of individual

members involved in the assassination plots

IN 54756 DocId: 32267341 Page 74

---

## Page 75

Objectives...page 3

d. Information as to the return of members of

the assassination teams to the United States

e. Information regarding Castro's knowledge

of the assassination plots

4. AM/LASH plots

a. Knowledge of Rolando

Cubela

b. Contact with Cubela: 1960-1965

c. Knowledge of Cubela's relationship with

covert operations with the CIA (Hunt and Artime)

d. Information regarding Castro's knowledge of

Cubela's CIA affiliation

e. Information regarding Castro double-agents

(possibly Cubela, Artime)

f. Knowledge of Castro assassination teams in

the United States

5. CIA-funded activities independent of assassination

plots: May 1961 to June 1963

a. CIA contact for activities

b. Extent to which knowledge of CIA-funded

activities and assassination plots were

shared by the same CIA officials and American

gambling interests (Discussions with E.H. Hunt

regarding assassination plots)

NH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 75

---

## Page 76

Objectives...page 4

B. Nature and extent of associations with American

gambling interests independent of CIA sponsorship

1. Pre-Castro Cuba: knowledge of and associations

with American syndicate figures; i.e., Santo

Trafficante, Norman Rothman, Dino Cellini,

Charles Tourine, the Fox brothers, and Lewis J.

McWillie

2. United States gambling associates and financial

assistance

a. Dino Cellini through Edward K. Moss

b. Dominick Bartone

c. Plot regarding Pepin Bosch and organized crime

3. Other American suppliers of arms and material

for Cuban raids

C. Nature and extent of de Varona's knowledge of

assassination of President John F. Kennedy

1. Vocal exile groups opposed to JFK

2. Information obtained post-assassination regarding

role of any exiles or individuals in the

assassination

Specific information regarding relationship.of

Lee Harvey Oswald to any Cuban exile group

NN: 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 76

---

## Page 77

Objectives...page

5

4. Information obtained post-assassination regarding

role of American gamblers or individuals in the

assassination

5.

Specific information regarding the relationship

of Jack Ruby to any American gamblers or Cuban

exile groups

D. Nature and extent of de Varona's knowledge and

association with specific individuals

(See attached list -- Goal #1)

HH 51756 DocId:32267311 Page 77

---

## Page 78

BIOGRAPHY

Maurice Martineau

1389 Canterbury

Rockville, Maryland

Presently retired from the United States Secret Service.

Mr. Martineau entered the United States Secret Service as

a Special Agent in 1940. In 1954 he was promoted to Special

Agent in Charge (SAIC) of the field office in Grand Rapids,

Michigan. In 1955, he transferred to Milwaukee, Wisconsin as

Special Agent in Charge (SAIC) and remained in that position

until 1961, at which time he was transferred to Kansas, Missouri.

In February 1963, he was sent to the Chicago, Illinois

field office as Assistant Special Agent in Charge (ASAIC).

From 1969 until he retired in 1972 he was an "Inspector" in

the Inspections and Review Divison of the Secret Service.

During the assassination of President John F. Kennedy,

Mr. Martineau was in Chicago. At the direction of Thomas Kelly,

Secret Service Inspector, he became involved in a limited post-

assassination investigation.

HH 54756

DooId:32267344

Page 78

---

## Page 79

GENERAL LINE OF INQUIRY

WITH REGARD TO PRESIDENTIAL PROTECTION AND SECURITY

1. What were the function and responsibility of Secret

Service field offices/White House Detail for

Presidential protection and security?

2. Who in the field offices assumed primary responsibility?

3. What systems and goals were developed and maintained

in regard

to:

a. Identification of individuals who represented a

threat;

b. Identification of groups who represented a threat;

c. Determining the modus operandi of both individuals

and

groups;

d. Acquaintance with the motivation of both individuals

and groups; and

e. Acquaintance, awareness and knowledge of geographic

range of both individuals and groups.

4. Were there differences between the protective purposes

and the practicality of protective operations?

a. Manpower to perform necessary procedures?

b. Considerations for legal and political rights?

c. Lack of cooperation and coordination with other agencies?

d. Access

to desired information?

NH 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 79

---

## Page 80

General Line of Inquiry...page 2

5. In what manner and with what emphasis did the Field

Office/White House Detail concern itself with

Presidential protectionand security?

a. Coordination with White House Detail Advance Agent?

b.. Nature and thoroughness of discussion with Secret

Service senior officers regarding effectiveness of

intelligence information?

c. Nature and thoroughness re the use of liaison

contacts?

d. Interoffice cooperation and coordination between

White House Detail and field agents?

e. "Significance" attached to unnullified threats?

f. Consideration given high incidents of criminal

activities in various cities; e.g., number of

shootings, type of weapons used, etc.?

g. Consideration given to prior hostile political

demonstrations; White House Detail index on local

or regional hostile groups?

h. The extent to which threats from one region were

considered in protective efforts in another region?

NH 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 80

---

## Page 81

General Line of Inquiry...page 3

6. What procedures were established for the purpose of

establishing liaison contacts with other investigative

and intelligence agencies?

a. FBI

b. CIA

c. State Department

d. National Security Council

•e. Office of Naval Intelligence

Were these procedures adequate?

What types of interorganizational problems did you

experience?

HH 54756 DooId:32267344

Page 81

---

## Page 82

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

Identifying Information:

Name Maurice MartinCaw.

Address 1389 Cantibu Was

City/State_

Rachmule, md.

Date 211188

Place Amita

Date of Birth

social Security.

Telephone

MOr S

Spouse

Children

Physical Description:

Height

Weight

Ethnic GIOUp

Color Eyes

Hair

Special Characteristics •

Personal History:

a.

b.

Present Employment:

Address

see alvine

Telephone (301) 424-4704

Criminal Record

1. Arrests

reteria fm Secret Seince

2. Convictions

Additional Personal Information:

a.

Relative(s): Name

Address

b. Area frequented:

C. Remarks:

Trauch estenaull ei Emope AC1:5.

N4 54756 DocId: 32267344 Padate

Investigator

Pkelly a Lec Mattieno:

211118

Form #4-B

---

## Page 83

KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Name

Maurice Martineau

Address 1389 Canterbury

Rockville, Maryland

Date

_2/1/78

Place

Time

House Annex 2

Interview:

On February 1, 1978, the writers interviewed subject

in Room 3460 at House Annex #2 in connection with his activi-

ties as acting head of the Chicago office of the Secret Service

in 1963.

Martineau told us that he retired in 1972 after 32

years with the Secret Service and has been travelling on tours

to Europe and the United States. He recently received a tele-

phone call from Robert Goff, Counsel for the Secret Service, which

alerted him to the Committee's need to interview him.

He told us that at the time he left the Service, he had

been assigned to the Inspection Division as an Inspector.

that capacity, almost all of his time was occupied with the

Inspection of Field Offices and personnel to determine if they

were in compliance with Secret Service regulations. He would

visit field offices around the country on a rotational basis

and confer with the SACs about any internal problems. He would

Interviewer Signature

Typed Signature James Kelly / Lee Matthews

Date. transcribed _ 2/22/78

BY: map. Form #4-A

1N 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 83

---

## Page 84

Maurice Martineau Interview

Page 2

review a representative number of files in each office and

determine if cases were

being handled properly. He would then

interview all of the agents

"to see if they had any beefs to

unload." Visual inspection of the physical plant and equip-

ment issued would also be undertaken. These visits would

take 2 - 3 weeks. Martineau would then return to Headquarters

in Washington and

write up the report of inspection.

Recom-

mendations would be made by the Inspecting Agent.

Martineau

agreed that an Inspector for Secret Service was usually a

senior agent and had or developed a great knowledge of workings

of the Service.

He functioned as an Inspector from 1969 until

he retired in 1972. In his tenure, he covered about one half

of the 65 field offices.

In 1954, Martineau was Special Agent in Charge of the

offices in Grand Rapids, Michigan. In 1955, he went to Milwau-

kee, Wisconsin as SAC and remained in that position until 1961,

at which time he was transferred to Kansas City, Missouri.

In February 1963, he was sent to Chicago as Assistant

Special Agent in Charge. The head man in the office was James

Burke who was listed as Acting Special Agent in Charge. Burke

was shortly thereafter transferred to Detroit and John Handley

HH 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 84

---

## Page 85

Maurice Martineau Interview

Page 3

was sent to Chicago as Special Agent in Charge (SAC). After

a while, Handley left for Paris, France but Martineau remained

as Assistant Special Agent in Charge.

Martineau made no secret of his dislike for Special

Agent John Handley. After Handley left Mike Torino was sent

to Chicago as SAC.

Martineau told us that in a city the size and complexity

of Chicago, there is no way you can cover every contingency.

He went into detail to describe for us the close relationship

which existed between the Seciet Service and the Chicago Police

Department on Presidential protection, particularly the close

surveillances. He complained that the Secret Service was al-

ways short of agents. He told us about a situation earlier in

his career when then Vice President Richard Nixon visited a

small town in the northern peninsula of Michigan. Martineau and

the local police chief were the only "protectors" for Nixon.

Martineau said that he was in Chicago when President

John F. Kennedy made a visit prior to November 1963. He could

not recall the precise date. "We got a telephone threat. The

caller was not identified, that Kennedy was going to be killed

when he got to Jackson Street. We adjusted the routine to rely

HH 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 85

---

## Page 86

Maurice Martineau Interview

Page 4

on the Chicago police to cover the area. The threat did not

materialize," he said.

Martineau said that if a threat came

to SS field offices, even if it came anonymously, it was re-

ported to Headquarters in Washington. Protective Research

Service (PRS) would be notified. They are now called Protective

Research Division (PRD). If the threat came by letter it was

sent to PRS for fingerprint analysis and phraseology studies.

We asked Martineau about threats against JFK in Chicago

area November 1963. Martineau visibly stiffened. "I can recall

no threat thatwas significant enough to cause me to recollect :

it at this time" he said.. In contrast to the wealth of detail which

flooded his earlier recollections, his answers became vague and

less responsive.

He told us that just prior to a Presidential visit, there

would be a meeting of the office agents and detail assignments

would be handed out.. In the instance of the President's intended

visit on November 2, 1963, Martineau did not recall any parti-.

cular surveillance involving Cuban or Latin types, nor did he

recall any all-night interrogation of any suspects in the Chi-

cago office.

Martineau recalled nothing about the Mosely information

until we read a portion of a Secret Service memo (g.v.) written

HH 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 86

---

## Page 87

Maurice Martineau Interview

- Page 5

by SA Ed Tucker (and which Martineau signed as "Approved. by")

which outlined the SS 1963 interest in Mosely, whom it appears

was an informant. He only recalled that Mosely was a "police

buff, a James Bond type who knew where there was a stock of

automatic weapons which some Cubans were trying to buy.

"They

were Chicago bus drivers. I remember I gave some kind of an

award, you know, a

'good citizen' type certificate in my

office to Mosely and he insisted that his son be present at the

ceremony. But I don't know what happened in connection with the

information and at no time do I recall talking to the FBI about

it. The only time I had a problem with the FBI was in connec-

tion with a counterfeiting case. A Vito Zaccanini turned him-

self in to the sheriff in Rockford, Ill. We needed to talk to

him but he would only talk to the FBI"

Martineau briefly discussed the SS filing system as he

recalled it. Chicago office files were prefaced by 2-1+#.

While the prefix "CO" indicated a Chief's office or Washington

file and CO+S meant special.

Washington Headquarters would issue the actual # on

these. All Presidential threats were COl's. 'S (Special) could

appear on office files which meant that copy sent to Washington.

While the writers did not ask Mr. Martineau flat out if

he knew about the circumstances which former agent Bolden men-

HH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 87

---

## Page 88

Maurice Martineau Interview.

Page 6

tioned to us in his Chicago interview (q.v.) we did question

his obliquely about the matter of Thomas Arthur Vallee and

the alleged Cuban/Latin types which Bolden mentioned. The.

paucity of documents in this case make it difficult to pin

down a witness on details or even, recollection of past events

which the Service seems to treat as a "non-event".

Martineau should be reinterviewed as any supporting

documents come to light which touch on Presidential threats in

Chicago since during/between October 25 = November 2, 1963.

He did remember SA Tom Kelly calling from Dallas -

11/23/63 - regarding Oswald's rifle ordered

from Klein's in

Chicago. He said in those days the Secret Service in Chicago

was not open on weekends so Kelly called him at home. He then

called SA Tom

Strong and asked him to check Klein's Sporting Goods

for information on the rifle. Strong told him that the FBI had

beaten them to Klein's and got the records.

We showed Martineau a picture of Thomas Arthur Vallee,

who was arrested in Chicago by CPD on information from Secret

Service. He didn't recognize the pictures and had no present

recollection of a case like Vallee.

HN 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 88

---

## Page 89

1354

UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE

TREASURY DEPARTMENT

3

SS/PRR

MIN

Field

: OF CASE

TIGATION MADE AT

Chicaço, I1313015

TiGATION MADE BY

Spacial Agenda Ecard I: Taclas

OFFICE

STATUS

Chicago

Investigation condimed

PERIOD COVERED

13/2513/29/83

FILE NO

TITLE OR CAPTION

LED HARVEY OSHALS

Frasident Lenses

COAR: 3A, 030

SINCLARTI

A taite zalo, America, of saken tallability, is Becardar 1963, hod

coon attempilag to ragotiate a sale da machina quas to a Cuban ravolatianary

whoss nasa la knosy, Tha Caban is allegad to bani sade s comant tha day

before the assassiratton of Presidens Kennedy that le not bara planty of

Tha Cian aúsiond the Anarica that batone any deals could la conquen

Babed tha cuban supariora mosla lava to approve the laszicas aná satisay

Shonsaltas that ha bas pot a sia agent.

Discussion #ith tha secarity agencias os this nattor resulted in t

conclusion thas inacuch as tha imestigation zafloctad a shoes to

Prusicar Joirson, who bas arouncod has intention of contiring the last

Prositant's policias, ton socrat Santice bould hars primary jurisdiction

in the case and that us would koop the other sacurity agencies informed.

•Suboogantly, at she diraction on tha soon, sortico, the Azarlean contached

tha curan and an arrangesant was tada ta sets the cuban's saporiors. Ta

cuban nas idantitied as balongisy to the 30th of Baveabor Group. (This

group waa prizarly interastod, at icast in the unicago arza, in obtalning

soray and dissentrating propaganda si antibastro natura, It vas too

consensas df other security agancles that it mis donola. this 304à 6t

Moreor Mann wald be involved ia (lleçat actistlaso) Ma borican and

¿ho cuban alocussed the policles or President Jemson daris thaix eatines,

ond tha duisa desalted President joinson as a corces purson she siould gat

thingà done,

The Cuban stated that Frasidont Karnady 798 37 Istallastual,

#

1820

IUT!

COPIES

REPORT MADE BY

1820

last page

APPROVED

HH 54756 DocId: 32267344

Page

589

Maurica G. Martineau

ACtIng SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE

DATE

32-3-03

DATE

11920

---

## Page 90

C0:7-54,000.

a rica panta sos ista "did sos gins a dam about propia," while provides.

johnson sald nock with son people. In any case, ta cubin states that

President Jainson hoald sat stand in thair voga

A fen says later too Marican was infessod by th Cubes and aartion

unicorn Daben that be tha a panhar di a group of sis parrous sod that tho

bad one "bantar", Ins of the sorcera di this roup and a sail sores sachure

factoryo: i shoala ba potod as tais point that suboatle mapan can

Iand1zy be obtaided do sousenas i1 the barrela have bans uleggsd, and st

is the penetica as sun namara ta obtada thase pluggad naapons, this than te

an insesupalous singa sachins aparator and have too barcala raand ous:

sinca ibe pluggang In saizy lend» 1h3 Acerton inionad the tre Castas

that tinea tea assassirasion st pronident remody a sosas deal et "haaz"

had basy aroated and that bix mirty bas millig to provide tba guat to the

Cucans for a hondsal dompaypant it tha Cuban group conta provido thes liza

tha rasponsibla party in the chiego are wo bould vouch that ila sesainias

of the money scald so sald to then attar the unar nad boin connated.

Ta inteleza inord toe cubend that his geop uas saving sin guns, and

shaald tosy ba dambientrosses thay imtandas so take retriassiona

The Investigation consined sone ties, mith the cuban dod the inester

sooting zagularly and deensaln sha posalbla purchara di guna and

anunition jur tha Cabana At to ulea did any us bha comeration Lotusen

the Asarican and tha buen s011acs that chi actiri ios in whic the domas

ture engaged in any may had any cortercion with tro assaaslnation of

President Kansody» Mono of the porsons involved In this invastigatlor

rad any comaction with the assassination, ros was there any indientloa

that any do tha parsons involved hed any information concaming too assas

sination of Presidani kemudy. mo inestigation is contimring along 21503

othor them that invoired 1n the assassination,

BESTRIZUTIGIS

Chiat

Miami

Dallas

Detroit

Crand Rapies

Birtinghan

Spring{Lald

Chicago

2 Co

2

2

1820

(No copy forwarded to FBI)

2

HH 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 90

---

## Page 91

3.

00-2 ===

Dor, D17 11-22-53 ü0 5:00 an, En 11-20-13 and had talen nba ther übe

original microfila of the apralose iron l. Ficell and the onder dient.

M5 1:20 3o2., Special Agesò Grizione belephoned Special Agent Robert

A. Sieuerù ana Special Agenú Puliléps dù Cha Delles office.

frey vare

apprised of the irgometion raceivsá iron 12. Talánan.

They roquesied

theo the chicago cifice bale a 202 imessagaion End cavica über Of ay

additional Lachs Learrad.

Ai 1:35 0.=., Aching SPIC Maurica C. Maritneau vas adrised sy tele-

phone of the developents.

4t 1:40 2.n., Special Agenü Griffiths Lelaphoned Postel Inspecior

clem knighù oi the Chicago Posial Inspecuion Sertica..

He ras regiusted

to turnish all incomation possible on übe soney order involved in this

cEse.

At approanately 1:45 D.ã., o7 11-23-53, Special Agent Fucker arrirad

ai kein's Sporting Goods and began en caentien of taillen d. Valdnan,

Vica President.

Haidnan advised Special Agont Fucker that the F5I had been

eù his place of business fron approsimesaly 10:00 p.7. on 11-22-53, lavil

approvinsuely 5:00 2o1. on 11-23-53 and also that be,

Walesen, had given

the original microfilm of records perieining io ibe neil order sale of the

suspectsd murder weepon io Special Agent Roberü d. Dolen, EDI, and thai

I-lan Red allegedly deparied Chicago fun Hashingion, D. C. or the soring

cè 11-23-55 appereaily to hend delirer the microfila do the FBI Iaboreboy

It sao:ld be noted aù tnis point theu leiden ken reiterabing übai

he ied allegediy beez instruced by the FBI pot to discass this investigetion

un aarse, and au tes necessary for Seecial agent lucker and subsenueraly

also Special Agent Giftzüns when he joined Spocial Agont Tuckes aù Klein's

Sporting Goods io poini ont to Walden cnes the taS. Secrai Semice bas

painary jurisdiction in a cose of this natura and va had daminite interesi.

Waldnen advised thai his fir had raceived an envelopa posineried Dallas

Marol: 12, 1953, Beering a rebum address of "1. Hidali, ?. 0. Bor 2925, Dallas,

Penas" and in che emelope ras enclosed an ondus blank wich had appacred in

he "anecdona Rafleman"issue of February, 1953.

This order blani reflected

shat che suspacisa duraor treapon hes boer ordere

¿by cabalogue auaber £-20-1750

and in acditioz to the suspected murder woegen,

al parer seope and monat had

soen sailed parcel post io l. Hidall cn 3-20-65.

Klein's ordos blans refleched übei dhe surchase price oi the sifla, the

scope, and nourt tas $19.95 aud for the per.

Just and handling ürore was

= charge of $1.50 zeising a toual cosi oi $21..4.

103

NH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 91

---

## Page 92

c0-2-.10:

su approanabely 2:50 pur. on 11-29-43, Speuial Agent Sauerd Z. Fucker

selectoneà Loving SATO Maurico G. Warbinocu, Chicago, and ras advised by

Acuing S'30 Lentineau chai it vas se the ubcosi ingency thei we debernine

the = nufasturer ui ühe weapon; if any serial number appeared on he scope;

Acting SAIC Nervineau instruessa

Special Agent, Bucker üneü as soon es he could obiain this infomasion,

ho should call Dailes inediately and should also prepera on his same asce,

e cordining off of the telephoze call seting forch the highlighis of this

investigatior.

As nosed by Special Agent Griftighs above, Waldren tas almost cerain

that the payaent of the rifle, scope and nouri had been nade by noney order,

bui he coula noù be positive that it ves a posial soney order.

warizan

did fumish a copy of klein's bank deposiis to the Firsi Nationel Bank oi

Chicago for the date oî 3-15-03.

It is noied that in the colton of derosits, which according is Waldren

reprasented money orders, thera nes an aben for $21.45. talceas Elso

pointed out the bart had listed the date of this deposit as 2-15-53; however,

Maiden sueued that the bank had definitely nade a mistale on this dete, biù

aù chei pont, Welchen hed no 1a5 of proving 2u.

Lü 2:55 Do=., Special Agent Griffiths joined Suecial Agent Fucker at

Mes's Sporting Eoods and were able to zurcher determine that the weapsa

¡nica vas nailed by Klein's on 3-20-53 was an Italian cambine, 6.5 calibra

(•255"), a nodel 1591 troog special, bolt action carbine, serial lo. C-2765.

"elden furiner adrised and nade aveilable a copy of his restory lis

ded Ren's hed receired the suspacied murder weapon 0z 2-22-53 in a shis-

Leù dron Crescent Firearns Inco, 2 Wasü 378h Surest, lew Ioric 16, Her York,

and the nuiber Vo-556 winich appaared on the order blank reflecting the

filling of the ordes and which also appears on the inventory lisi of lain's

is a cross reference to serial nimber C-2766.

kalinen further adrised

and thai klein's received the scopes and souris

Leman" and batchell Westra, an achinisirative aide io talcran, fun.

ther advised nei Retting, Inc. was ozly an inporter of these atens and thai

the sanufachures was ilao.n.

Special lgenü Griatiühs, in endning a gla nouris, determinea ibe

exparendly these mounds tre menactured sa i

:and in conversation rich

Laura, Special Agent Cristichs vas acrised wa

-aor receipe of the sourts,

Main's asually had their ou nocifications nado defora the nounós vera sold.

103

HW 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 92

---

## Page 93

5.

CC-3-54, =53

Vasure suraed over to the agonus a susala of each of the shace types

o podified scope mounts mich tore used on repons df the type involved

in this invostigation. Re samples vera intuialed and dated by Special

Agent Grizzlühs.

Desira also advised üned behind the midale sighü of the suspecied

meier weapon where should be the name of cha of four cities in Isely

were uhis particalas weapon is sanufectured. These icur ciules are

Furin; Brescia; Gardoze; and Cerai.

The agents then cepersed lein's Sporing Coods aù 3:15 2.I. and

anzited aù the chicago office aù 3:30 p.n.

It should be roded the lcbing SAIC Vertinezu had insüreued an

o/l conizining the infomation developed saoula be fonarded to Dallas

and the Crier's Cifica forumion.

Special Agent Griftions belephoned Captain Fosco, U.S. Hir Force,

O'Here Field, Chicego, and leased ¿naù no nilivery aircrazi vere sail-

able so uranspori the samples and O/M to Dellas.

Special lgent Grifriühs then telephoned Wiss Jesos, Granifi Airlines,

and sade arrangesents for the maberial to ba uransporied to Dalles in the

cara of Capüain Don Hursd 01 Brazifi Fligau 59 Leaving Chácago zi 6:50

PuI. and arniriag aù Dallas aù 8:55 p.2.

Aù 3:4ó pa3., the ageris calephoned Special Igenos Paterson ard

Parises at Dallas and advised then that the naberial would be arziving

on Branist Flight 59.

A$ 5:22 puro, Special Agent Grittachs abusapsed to conbacE POI

Knight by telephone.

He was mavailable.

Aù 6=30 2.3., Special Agent Critibas delivered the zaserial des

Lined for Dallas to Capiain hussi aù D'fora Field.

Aù 7:30 2.n., Special Agenü Griffiths reached POi night by cele-

phone and was arised that ine money ordes apparcably involved in this

case tould have been senù to the Faderal Postal Money Urder Center au

Kansas Cluy, Kansas, Me. Knigau said he Brouget Wheü Kenses Cluy Postal

Inspeciors vera auberpiing to locabe she money order.

Lobing SAIC Verdineau, Chicago, tas i.. ced Of the infcameiion ica

Poi knight.

Re requesied chai Special igui cadetachs reiay the infomebion

to SiC us, Kansas City.

= .

r.r

103

MH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 93

---

## Page 94

C 0-87

00-2-35550

S/IC 1203, Kansas City, les delephoned aù 7:45 Duz. and assoà to

noto suro dedù ostal Inspechors were auberpting to locaue the money

Crasa.

SEC Maos tas given all incorneiion devaloped in Chicago io

¿heù date.

Lü 7:55 pozo, Special igeno Ericaites islachoned Special Agent

Susuari in Delias and advised nin thai SAiC leoz tes brying to ascer-

Bain dne suabas of the money order in kansas Ciby. During the course

of the contersation wün Spacial Agent Steuer, Spocial Igent Grifriübs

ies vola wnzt une soney order had been recorered by Postal Inspectors

and was being forerded to the Assistast Chieï of une U. S. Decreù

Service.

S:00 ..,

Sind leoz was again telephoned and advised that

the zoney order had been recovered.

It should be noued chau the copies of ibe docusents rentioned above

2s I0llous:

(1)

Copy of envelone posinerled Dalles Nerch 12, 1953,addressed

to klein's Sporting Goods, Chicago, and bearing reburn aâ-

¿ress of A. Hidell, P. 0. 3oz 2915, Dallas, Texas, Wiüh

exclosed order blank fron "anericen Piflesan".

(2) Copy of order blank fron Mein's Sporing Goods zerleciing

Ibalien carbine 6.5 Mi with l pour scope and sonai for

verded to A. Hadell 3-22-53.

(3)

.Copy of ilein's deposiù slips io the Finsù National Bank of

Chicago 10z 3-15-03.

(4) Copy of inveziory lisü of berchandise received by klein's

iren Crescent Firearus, Inc. and seflesting inventory

neber VeS36 to ba cross raterenced to serial No. 0-2766.

These tora all formanded to Dallas and the Chiet's Ostice by O/l by

Special Agens Griffiths and Tucker on 11-23-63.

(j) CONCLUSION:

This case is closed in Chicago.

1C8

HH

54756

DocId: 32267344 Page 94

---

## Page 95

C--255a0

Forcases 23, 1955

S.20 622218 d21219

19120148

063556

1381

2Li959

Ecia

ic:

22042 2

1:e: 31.

Cactos cardose tics to

24s32g

23t2od

28 a 62/01575

sostea2::0d

=26n 223

22452

and da cabos ned oscience e coupon

RxaC2e2e. 022100582

" Socas 53

-332ac2,7909,

soca coud de tria'g 92a5028g 40025.

vice-go 2i

Er02sg

:.".

1 cor se ebão pescutano do cuso bedro comandoa do the Gidado

=023030

Sacted se

..;

3

HH 54756

DocId: 32267344 Page 95

---

## Page 96

C087

2-7-21343

083500

2077

2:xe:20a 2?, 3905

220222 W. ColaBon

Opacedl Azead in Ciengo

0.:106398

Ei landis

Dido 150a acabara no boboghuno calê de fou co upadano lavezuce 24,

in nation E cavisod

in Lentos the Dos

Caa:006e2 122

18:204.

s

machere

200,

Ocarios

10 esta.

22060 das

1age i tricas

R10:17

cios conti

0a 12103:02

• 24,

Proucal !.

avosa-sol

aroucra

coria noss

1r2Ba

seen zabeting do ca excentraido

5 modo do bia

L0 ancies se Chau

Can 02g:

J23 2a:5

• 2u0S

•est

6:21

202E206420

23

07 0330222602

13 4021:

the U.

Croscu

reisas.

& Debuna Mates 0313. 2200 1292

20 c2

120,

113 CE: 21003 COi 2300

2ae.:

C:: 03:oá:3

C0T03.

20 Microy

13225

12g a geodecutra madess

: 050250

I2. 50P0 20 Cy 602

:2ác5 ici

5CC: Criei

18:02

192

HH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 96

---

## Page 97

23

SS/ARS

003668

Files:

Attached SS Control No. 336 (8 pages) has been

classified as CONFIDENTIAL, by the Secret Service.

Please insert this in CD 87 and destroy unclassilied

similar pages.

Helen Tarso

20-17-64

14 54756

DocId: 32267344

Page

---

## Page 98

Zum 1o, 2503 (Rovised)

2:03N00A 25P0R9

(7-3-50),

331

1057

17 /

UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE

TREASURE DEPARTNEIT

CRICEN Fiela

TIDE OF CASE

OFFICE

Chicase.

STATUS

Protective Pesearch

INVESTICATION MADE AT

Investigation Continued

PERIOD COVERED

Gazeago, Flinois

21/26 - 71/20/69

INVESTIGATION MADE BY

Special Agents Edward 2, Tucker

FILE N0-

TITHE OR CAPTION

co-2-34,030

Evil.

LEE HARVEY OSWAID

Assassination of

President Kennedy

SENOPSIS

Informant 2-1-266 has advised that one

Thoras Mosley has been in touch with a

in the assassination of the late President

variety of automatic weapons and explosives.

culture co

20. 11652, See 575,

Truccan Dept. 251112/23/2

INTRODUCTION

Pafozance is made to the office monorandun to the Chief iron Acting

SIC Maurice C. Martineau, Chicago, dated Novenber 26, 1953, undor file

No, 2-1-ó11,0.

That memorandum, confiming a long disuence belephone ca.

to Daputy Chier Paul J. Pateri, Washington, Do Co, varified that this neur

des had been discussed with Daputy Chief Paiern:, wo had diracted that

inasmuch as this information related do the assassination of the late

President Kennady, and that this infomatica also could involve sho proiao-

cion o President Lyndon B. Johnson, that all inlomation cavelopad oy tre

U.S. Secret Servica should be made available to the Federa? Bureau of

Investigation, and that a joint investigation should ba conducted tito a

exchange of raports and a free flow of incomation,

Fo= the information of all offices concerned, 2-1-2ó4 advisad ca

Novencer 26, 1953, that he hed heard that one Tra Healer allegedly nad bean e

auiempuing to negotiale a sale of machine guns to one

hofer so

Echevaszie.

and that Echevarria allegedly made a conneni

the day barora the assassina-

tion of President John F. Kennedy that "re now have gianty of money Oh

new backers are jews -as soon as inel (or liney?) lace care of Kennedy...."

DESTRIISUTION

COPIES

DA?3

ee last page

Edward 3 120:5

APPROVED -

12-3-53

| DATS

!?;.

• Acting Special

indis

0: 00288512022

: 22-3-53

147-54756 - DoeId:32267341 Page 98

---

## Page 99

2.

00-2-34,050

CENZPAL INQUIRIES

On Novender 26, 1953, at the Chicago Polico Department, inquiries were

made regaraing inomas mogley @ tom, and Horaz S, Echovarria A Homero Samuel

Valdivia Echevarria, however, no record could be found for either one or inese

=27.

On November 2ó, 1953, 2-1-260 advisad hay he believed that Thomas Mosley

and homer Echavarria, described below, vera guing to auterd a meeting in order

to negoulate for the sale of automatic weapons io Zenovarrials group.

On the evening of loventer 26, 1953, 2-1-265 reü ritz Spacial Aganis

Joseph E. joonan and Edward ?. Tucker, U, S. Secrei Serice, and Spacial

bility of Echevarria's being able to use sore machine guns shich Moslay coule

supply, in order thai Echevazria's group o cubans could invade Cuba. 2-1-266

adrised that the day before President Kanady was assassinaiad Mosiey again

had approached Echavarria acout the purchase of thesa mannine guns, at which

time Echevarria allegedly staved, "he now hare plunty of money - our nei

backers, are jews -- as. soon as ise? (or ichoyi) tale care of Kenncdyo...i

2-7-265 also alleged that Ichevarria aurisad Moslay thau before any deals

could be consumated, Echevarria's superiore would have da approve Mosley

and satisty themselves that he vas noù a Cil agents

2-1-256 advised that Mosley and Eccavarria wore going io have a meeting

on the evening of Noverber 25, 1963, for the purpose of inircaucing Mostay

to Ichevarria's superiors, However, i wes subsequently leamed ühat Master

attanoted to telephone Echevarria and it was determined that Beherzaria tas

working and Mosley could not get in touch with hin.

After 2-1-266 ned departed, in a discussion babween Special Agenü

aconan, Secret Service, end FBI Agenüs Rogers and Baker, it was concluded by

Special Agant Paker bhai Inesmuch as this investigation callectod a darest

to President Jonson, ino nas announcud his invartion on continuing the data

President Kennedy's policies, the Secreù semica should hava primary juriadio

tion in this case bui that va should keep te fbi intomcà of ou investigation,

Sussequantly, on this same evening, 2-1-205 advised thai Thonas Mostay

had talegioned Ichevarria, and that Echoraria had diracted Mosley do meet

cia at Echevarria's nouse at 12:00 o'clock noon on Newenber 28, 1953, ai

mich time Mosley and ichevarria were going to meai Bunovarriais suparions,

sco would confer with Mosley®

Ca Novenber 27, 1963, Special Agents Noonan and Tuclar proceeded to the

Ingration and Naturalization Service, Main Post Orfice Juilding, Chicago,

Illinois, to checie the files of that agency in the name of Homer S.Echeveraia,

It was deterined that Forer Samel Echevarria had eniered the United Staies

cz July 6, 2900 at Miami, Florida, via cureno dirtines flaget nio, 803,

This

file also reflected that Echevarria's alien nuber is A 12 235.480.

338

HH. 54756 DocTd:32267344 Page 99

---

## Page 100

00-2-34,030

ine file showed that upon enury to the United Staios, Echevarria cad

indicated that he was going to work for the los, Simpson Drilling Company

aù Dallas, Texas, and that he interded to live aù 10353 Denton Drive, 17

Dallas.

The file alag reflected that Ecnovarria nod bees living with cae

Alejandro Bierusy No, 759 Zoga Del Monio, Ina Villes, Ca, and zai

anorantais wie's maidey nane is Terseila Del Mino jesus, Castallanos

coring to dis fire, ta a sen, guy to noto

Orelia Valdiria. The file also reflecica inau Echevarria

had belonged to in

union or Socio de Vocal y Numerazio,

Ine tale shored thai Echevarrie ned noved fron Miani to Dallas, Texas:

fron Dallas to 428 Wildwood Drive, partmen 3. Jackao,

tionigan; and then

to W0 Bast Chicago Road, Jonesville, ilichie n unile in Jonesrille he

allegedly worked for theys. E, Wagstart Company, He then Live at

1204-A Quintard Avenue,

Anniston, Alabang:

On July 23, i95l.he allegealy

Gas living a 4908 West Supertor Streur,

-Tiris, he then lived re

осто патит. си очі-а.

Invastigation has established thas Echevarriais telephone, No. 273-2?22,

was insüalled on Saptember 24, 1953, No ¿oll calls have been hade from tas

phone,

Ca November 27, 1963, Special Agenis Noonen and Tucker proceaded to the

Chicago office of the fBI and confezrod it. fBi Agent alt Rogers. A copy

oi the photograph of Echevarria, appearing in the files of the Innigration

and Naturalizasion Sarvice, was given io Agent Rogers.

During this intervier

Agent Rogers advised that he knew Tvelio Echavarzin prior to this dave, and

that tiat very morning he had been inuroduced do Foner Echevarria.

meeting took place aù a grocery store located aù 2551 west North Averue,

Chicago, Illinois. Agent Rogers advised what this grocery store vas Case

by Cubans ard was a farorite meeting place for these people, he statad tras

the mazzing men homer achevarria was ey cacace, ard shau ho vas intrcauced

as an aganù oi the federal Bureau of Investigation.

Agent Robers believed that since na had neù Hones Echevarria that very

moraing, de, Rogers, should probably stey in the background of his

investigation.

Special lgent Rogers stated that fron the inforce ion providsà sara.

intervies with 2-1-256 on the previous nighü, iu is tir belier catfere

organization to nich Echevarria belonged was the a lovember roug;

and that this group was primarily intarested, at tonsi tu the Gricago area,

17 colaining noney and disseminating propaganda of an anti-castro nailre.

Fon his conversation it appeared that the Bureau had reliable incomation

336

NH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 100

---

## Page 101

60-?-34,030

regarding the activities of this group. It was also icle by Special gent

Rogers that it was highly doubtiul that this 30tn of Norancer group would ba

involved in illegal activities.

Special Agents Noonan and Tucker pointed out to Special Agent Rogers

that, since they had not been briefed

on the acuiritios oi Choen groups 17

¿ne Chicago area, ii vould be ler to nis agency to detemine if and inen

this investigation involved mattars of domestic security; and that the

ü. S. Secret service should be notified if this developed. In the ansence ai

such notification the investigation would continue, it warranted,

On the same daie, a confidential source advised that Teresica chevaris

was employed at the Wells Gardner Company, 2701 Norün Kildare Avenue,

Chicago, Illinois.

On November 23, 1963, Special gent Tucker Eclepnosed ine fBi and advised

that 2-1-205 was going to meeù agents of this service aù spororimetely

3:30 pom, to advise of any meeüings beüreen Tom Mosley and Homer Behevarria,

Although Special gent Rogers, FeI, could not be cordenied at iris tine,

Special igent Tucker was subsequently advised that ve ral mould noù be ca

this reeting with 2-1-255 and that they would rely on this Serrice and i-

findings.

C1 November 28, 1963, at approvamately 11:55 a.me, Special Agent Noonan

obserted suspect thomas Mosley arrive in his personal autondole at the

residanca of Homer Echevarria,

As previously agreed, the surveillance was

discontinued a this point.

This action was dacided upon bacausa the area

have been jeopardized.

Subsecuantly on November 28, 1953, Special Agents Noonen and Incher met

wiüh 2-1-255, at which time he provided the following account. of the reeting

between Echevarria and Thomas Mosley,

-2-1-265 stated that liosley had gone to Bonevarria's residence, aù which

time Mosley and [chevarria discussed the policies of Presiden Jchnson.

Echevarria allegedly described President Joinson as a comon person vino worla

get inings done.

Echevarria stated thai President kennedy was an intelico

tual, a ricn man's son who "did not give a darn about proble," while Presideni

johnson would work with people, In any case, Echevamia stated that

President Johnson would not stand in their ways

Echavarria made a telephone call mich he am in complete. Me

allegedly then asked his wife for the correct rinder:

wen this was pierided,

Echararria supposedly said, "Oh, I must have been walling the baguer sooo,"

Afier completing the second call, Echevarria ari Mosie, depersod in Nosleria

cax.

336.

NH 54756 DOcId: 32267341

Page 101

---

## Page 102

00-2-3, 030

Near the intersection of Milwauree Averue and Logan Square, Chicagò,

Illinois, Ichevarria told Mosley to pull over and park. ilter parking, an

urmaned Cuban,

described below, entered the car.

This party cominated the

conversation from this point.

This union Cuban first asked Mosley whai he could provide, to which

Mosley stated that he had on hand 200 Sten machina guns, Model 2, 2 mm,

paracellin.

These he would sell for 1100 apiace.

He shabed he had ton 2-38

machine pistols, 9 mmo, unich would sell lor $175 apiece; and seven 55 caliber

anti-tank rifles. The cost of these also was $175 apiece, and fi per round

of armunition.

Tha Cuban then asked Mosley if he could obtain material for sabotage,

and Mosley told him to write down what he wanted and le would attenmi to

obtain it.

This individual made the folloing list ot liems in which he

was interested:

Peutolite

Detonators of all types

C-3 explosives

C-y explosives

Fountain pen explosives

20 mm. ammunition

M-3 (it is not known what the Cuban meant by this designation;

BAR (Broming Automatic Rifles)

Garant (this might possibly refer to the Carund or the

US M~1 rifle)

2-1-266 obtained this list from losley's person and it was turned over

to this service, to be processed for unatever fingerprinis might be contained

thereon.

The union Cuoan then told Mosley shai he was going to ask him tro

questions, the answers to which would detamine Wrother or not his organiza

cion would do business with him. Ta firs questica was.

"How do you feel

about the assassination of President Kennedy?" to nich mosley shrigged his

shoulders and said, "It's no shin off my nose either way."

The second ques

tion was,

"Wo do you 'now from Cuba and now can we check uo on you?" to

which Mosley replied thai he knew Micrael

, enga cant, an that so

Ponce (phonetic) and that he,

o Police Department for this very same

unimom Cuban stated that he new Michael Ponce and in the organization to

which he belongs would checi the records of the Chicac: Police Department.

2-1-266 stated that Michael Ponce had Epirat war a regular Naval

officer in the Cuban Navy under the Dictajor Eus, end thei ce er chao

Tom losley had been Involved in gun-running actiritis; sch loner in the

early 1950's.

338

N₩ 54756 DocIa: 32267341 "Page 102-

---

## Page 103

C0-2-3l:, 030

2-1-266 stated that the meeting produced the following results. Mosley

informed Echevarria and the unkno Cuban that he was a menber of a grcup of

six persons, and that they had one "banker,"

Two of the members of the grou

cimed & small screw machine factory, (Iù should be noted at this poini tha

automatic weapons can readily be codeined as souvenirs if the barrels have

been pluened, and that it is the practies of gun-unners do obtain thase

pussed weapons, take them to an unscrupulous sorer marine operaoor: mod

have the barrels reamed out, since the plussing is my leads;

Mosley informed the tho Cubans tnai since the ascussination or Prerideni

Kennedy a great deal of "heat" has been croateà, and thai his peror mes willing

to provide the zuns to the Cueans for a nominal dom vaguent if urs riban

group could provide them with a responsible party in to Chicago cra wo

would vouch thai the remainder of the money would be pot to then fuer

deal had been consummated, Mosley informed the Cubers thai his grom was

saving six guns, and should they be double-crossed they intended to care

retribution.

The unnamed dunen stated that this deal sounded arutable to lan, mor

that in Mosley cherisa out at the police deparinent inuir organizatio, ace

In couch with hin through an attorney. This auturny would provide

rosley mth a list of equionent which ney desired, and ill dealings fren

this point on, batreen Mosley and the organization, "chia be handled stasigi:

the attomey.

The unnaned Cuban also stated that the list of equipment would

be writien in a code wnich would be taught to Mosley by Homer Echevarria

rosley was asked how he could be contactad. He atabed that in the past

1t naà been his practice to enter an id in in personal coLume di a 10.2l

newspaper, using the code name, "Elack Fooi.""

It was agreed that should this

groupet any tine in the future wish is contact mosley they would run an ao

in the personal column of the Chicago Tribune, which would read,

"Black Foot

call (a telephone number would ba entered) arier (a time would be entered),"

Ine unnamed Cuban stated that the telepnone nunher would be a pay prose,

which would be covered by either him or a member of his organization for

one half hour before and one-half hour añtec the time stated in the ads

could be Mosley's responsibility to contaci then within this time, Mosley

agreed to this.

Also discussed at the time was the subject of the backers. It is the

feeling of 2-1-256 that at least some of the backers of this group are

hoodlun elements, and that the backers are not restricia to Chicago.

2-1-266 stated that the unnamed Cuban aliegedly is & mender of the

Student Federation of Revolutionaries,

on November 29, 1963, Special Agent Moona, Me crudes By Lediia.

regent 1alü rogers, iBI, and Agent Pogers was baiced o the atumation

receired fron 2-1-266 on the previous day.. "gonù Rogars stater that tha

336

NY 54756 DocId: 32267344. Page 103

---

## Page 104

60-2-34,030

student rederation of Rovolutionaries nay vary possibly be une Studest

arocery store located aù 2351 West Horn venue, Chicagos 11lin0ls, Shorely

ater his introduction to Homer Echevarria on lovemier 1l: 1957.

It was learned from gent Pogers Shaù Lee Harrog and has coterated

to join the Student Revolutionary Directorate in New Grindis; busü vincla

Osmaid was uncer. consideration oy this group, he was cutarved by member c

the group aistributing literature for ine fair flay for Cuba Commutee; ay:

that, in addition to this, Oswald had taken parü in a debate of the Cuboi

probiem against members of the Student Revolucionary Direciorate,

the student Revolutionary Directorate, thai one Paulino Sierra,

Agent Rogers stated, in regard io an atiorney uno mignù be fridng :1ua

an attorasy

in the Chicago area vho becane interested in the anui-Castro movement, cord

possibly be the contact for Tom Mosley. Agent Rogers stated that Sierra

has clained to have a great deal di financial backina and nas attempted i

organisa the greai nuncer of anti-Castro movemenis in this counts,.

are allegations that the financial bacling of Sierce An acodlum zoney, ont

that Sierra has denied this and states that his baciece tre American

businessmen•

Through a confidential source the nome o anyone ring inquirie: st

the Chicago Polica Depariment regarding Thomas Mosley 57 mediately ve

made available to this serrice.. It should be noted this this source is

extranely reliable and fully aware of the importarce co secrecy in tric

investigation.

SUSPECTS

YO:ER S, EGOVARRIA @ Homero Samuel Valdivia Ecrevazzia - nate; male;

Croar; 32 Jears; born at Jatibonico, Canaguay, Cuba; 5:9"; 160 pounds; blacks

hair; musiache; olive complezion; a bus driver for the Chicago Transii

Authority; resides aù 2301 Morth Albany Avenue, Chicago, Illinois; drives

= 1957 red Chevrolet, 1963 Illinois license IP 1650÷

TOLAS POSTEL. & Tom - whita; male; American; 40 years; 6 feet; 180 pounds;

¿lac's nair; mustache; usually wears a bou tie; a bus driver for the Chicago

Transit Authoriüy; resides at 1400 rest Sunnerdale Aventte,

Chicages Alinois;

drives a 1960 black Thunderbira, 1963 Illinois License 1:2 968.

= white; male; about 30 to 32 years of cue approximately 517";

10 pounds, black hair; dark; clear complezion; hact, incide

336

HH 54756

Docid: 32267341 Page 104

---

## Page 105

60-2-31, 090

It is anticipated that an undercovas special agent will be intacáuno!

by inormant 2-1-265 to Tom Mosley,

and that this ageni mil be present as

whatever meetings may take place in the future vemen loutey an the cia

BE0UO-

Copies of this report are being senü do the liari offica fur a crock ci

Irmigration files, as that was Homes Echevarria's port

of entry,

Additional copies are being senü to Dallas; Detroit, Grand Rapids, t

Firingnan vith the request that investigation be mada aù Echevarria's pinara

oi res dence and employment, as statad abova, in the disuricts of saic oncice

and that background infommation on the suspeci be cotained,

Copies of this report are also baing formardad to tre Springfield affice

with the requesi that they make an investigation aù che Pureau of Motor

Venicles regarding Echevarria's car, Il at all possible, the entire history

of this car snould be obtained,

Invastigation is continued in Chicago for furthe: contacis with 2-1-i6u

relative to additional meatinas between the several suojects.

DISERIBUTION:

Chiefs

Miani

Dallas

Detroit

Grand Rapids

Diningnam

Springãield

Bi, Chicago

Chicazo

2 ccis

2 co's

2 cc's

.2 cc's

2

co's

2

ecis

2

co's

Editions tiny

Iraing 2 52 65, 12/2-3/25.

336

IN 54756 DocId: 32267344

Page 105

---

## Page 106

io-o

hutch torc

Caiss

ferozass 26, 1963

003571

Mis vill condira ny long distance sclaptoce call to insistani chiet

Fo hildy on tues cata relative to an inquiry made of is by epecial

Acatit

taros frick, bul, Cacase,

regaring su investagation tade iy

so at the lesile

12212 E. Velrose, Chicago, Illusine

It was explaired to Ciser Vitor, that or leventes 23 I recited a

long distance phose call fron minilipa, Dellar, boo staiad thet

ho was calling for in drago toorary Intolligence Diricior,

Departroots list da Coonertuestod that I contact do so so edroudo,

722 so Ligiland Areo, Jarrington, Illa

that in the event & bea

inable to reach in. Paronds I should endeavor to coatsou de isnes

• E.

Farion nico bas

In Cricago and could by roached at the falmer rouse

That i nas to dirico lã. Edsoda do iro Farcer to concois

to factor to laalie trough telephone nunber I5 2-7726 1a Chicago

ani armage through dr, leslie to have tro farier enaring payroil

ched'ca issued through the furt warth, leras branch of the leslie

¡olding congazy; bat tra

farier was to sachica such decke for te

purpose of deterining Ludemation aporent ren she clock endorsers,

vas to cotan plotsucies eû all sued chocis and ircalatig thort-

Altar bes so telephone tro fooner aù dallas, texas, mona murber

I was unable te mach tro Peronio bat did succesdin contacting

a Parkor ab the Falace Hoove Lotel end i gave to fre

Faster tie

¿notructions froa tre Coonor so plica to no by cA 11:1112059

to tarter

carial dot to la so tragortalion at 1 effore an agent aid en

Arionalle 10r 15 1520

1 inctruetod la itorao do trone to proceed

inetiately to the fairor loss foral and contseù ir. Marker

• In

Som 1080%0

tarter abesquerity tienional pe to sarios that

is lad loon ln touch with tro cartor to lalic ano had boid his tres

che only corpany executiro ple doulá taro asease to the pagioll

moorie has out of lourice tint le incla arrange for big imsdiate

retorio

ans i adord lin or .

Cooccale circotivo and tau I led eisen

toney card die

Powell clocks at ton.

106

HH. 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 106

---

## Page 107

2o

2-3-13109

tojethor vile 13 cragion docks and a our of corella lot torc

Lad toes outained by iro

Frazer end tial the latter lad colorioned

pertiront isconation to 1ao Coorer at loller, Teraro

in loreber 25, I received a Lelegbone call fion at Forren Grier,

Fig onicago, sho siod us di no bai advisza his office of en iovesti-

rabien being conducted by ca at the loalia Valding Compargo i cold

Ma bat on had sos so acriocd tho local oftice of the 221o Fo tien

asica ma 2i so sere in face, conducting such investigation relativa

ts leg lo casale.

I toli ino snita that I cldn't son? no shoula dia-

cusa tris satter over the teleptone and invited lua io call s3 to at

my oilcotor furüner elecaior,

1 then placed a long distares 2al=-

phose coll to Asalutant Cries Eo Miley pal ragrested Lostrictione 25

to stat intomation ahosla be sirea to dia ral.

Chief tildy ashsee

questly returned my call ad sisted that the comlate siory cutlined

sbove shoula do fauna to the Put and if should bo explainod to in extih

thai he had not previously sarised tiea of this interiation thasnuch

the incuiry has being conducted ly the ardelisicace Division of ths

Tressory Departent ard ma had no vag of evaluating the incoration

nor bring able do determino bles it ves sufficiently pertionct to

varrant jaradiate nobiliention do oline agencies.

I las subsequontly Intervierod in parson by nd crite ass 1 gave him

a dotailed accorao oi our carticlantion in die lavestigaties 2s

outiined sixies

I was not ashod on tin as to shy be lsd not elven

uds inioration is to rii and i soluntcored no cocont is tuat

FEDISCUS

it vas explained to tin that tide difico worked only as a

contest baturen tiro. Cooner où Trosary Intellica In dallas and

sa daas So farior di lso iconore stall tho sao in 0l1c9L03 Ecl

rivor i had estatisabed cance vita tro larior, in eccordande titi

15o cooner's request, and liad giron do to latter the diracuive of

i rolenbeerca do provide tro farior sibi, an agent and es

stance insuch as iro satiser had no transpertations

Contequeatlys

the chicago oldica si de sorob conlee in this purbloular instances

servod oniy is üneler conter for tr. donor's negaage to tro farter

end torestion provided insisperiation facilicino to sto Parkero

I aleo sois sunita wint curdler spiry of thie corvice at the Primes

lovel could to nade through Incarcior Somas Teller, Doe fa 001229g

sue abrira information mil toe dinted by e metonatom to be sutr

lo on suicide de nou encogedo

robing anciel agent in Mere?

1C6

HH 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 107

---

## Page 108

C0-871

UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE

TREASURY DEPARTVENT

063572

CRIGIN

21-23-6318

TYPE C. C-JE

OFFICE

STATUS

C-20250,

i"irais

FILE NO.

C0-2-24030

TITLE OF CAPTION

Frosecti

.:"=

23=i

ISVESTISATON MASS AT

Close?

to Madell

PERIOD COVERED

ISSASIUATION OF THE RESIDIE

Chica

"o.

ITVESTIGATOR KADE SY

ima?.

.3

21-23-53

Special

DETAILS

35 & 332ad

STROPSIS

restission da Chiose dois do A fideli

?. Do Box 29255 Delles,

Peres, ordered an fueldan

ceroine, equipped tich celescopic sight fion Klein's

Sporcing Cooze, Chicago, 0z 3-12-53.

C-2/05 ves shippsd to 1. Hidell on 3-20-63.

Further Chicago investigation shous thai the zoney

order intolved has besa recovered by Posial. Inspec-

tors in lensas City and fomerded to ühe Assistant

Chief's Difice of this Service.

Copies of lein's records and specimen iclescopic

sighe outus nare bega furierdad to Dalles, Bexas.

(A) L.230D90210M:

C= 11-23-53, incuration mes received inco the Dallas office thai a

I'lisery carbine equipped mich a telesesgic sighi tich had been soid by

Mola's Sporting Cosis, Chicago, Drinois, had Door used in the assasination

di She Presidenü on 11-22-53.

CE, CEDRAL, INQUIRIES:

2207 2ebkraing hone au 12:35 2.2. (OSt), on 12-25-53, Special Agoni

= so Crifelons tas aalised to telophone the bailes office tich tas

DISTAS:

Speciel Ageni Phillios, Pas, dhan in the Dalles office, raquessed

Rue Cricago office to develon all possible infocation on a military carbina

capped ulün a iclescopic sight which had bach sold sy kela's Sposing

COPIES

REPORT MADE 3Y

Criginal

Dates

6.20959

A22:931

2 co

APPROVED

3 cc

LOGANS SPEGRLASEIS

(CONTINUE i PLATE PAPEP)

C. Karizeen

U.S. GUIdESHID, PRINTING CIFICE

HH 54756

DocId: 32267344 Page 108

BiTE

03

11-25-53

CATE

-

12-25-39

---

## Page 109

2.

co-2-:::)

Goods in Calcago o3 or abouü 3-20-63. Payzenó ias in the for of = $21.90

noney order. The ville was nailed do ?o 0. 2oa2025, Dalles, Fesas..

Special Agent Phillips also requested drau all possible 1720zz25203

on the nosey crier be developed ünsouge the Chicago office of dra Postal

Inspecion Service.

Li 12:40 2.z. 0n the sase dave, Special Agori Jenes S. Crifichs

learned froz the Illinois Bell Delephone Conpeny that ühe rein offace ana

varshouse of fein's Sporting Goods is locaied at 4540 W. Kadison Streat,

Chicezo, intinois.

L 12:45 p.5., Special Agent Griffiths telephoned Eduard Deniczist,

the individual in vanporers charge of Mein's Sporting Coods. He vas given

the intoration as recaived troy Special Agent Phillips and requested io

notify Speciai igezi Grifriühs by telephone. He was also advised io zoi

diseuss the case.

Eu 1:00 pon., Special Agent Aguard 72. Jacker vas apprised of the Chicago

investigation and proceeded immediaicly to Mein's Sporting Goods.

Mesa's Seeruang Goods to leern te the incoraction ves arailable aù that

Fe said that be hed noù yeu foune She appropriate files sui had dis

cusssd the case with Postal Inspacions approametely five minutes before

üne original call by Special Agend Griftishs.

1 1:13 Doze, Million J. Welchen, Vice Easident of Klein's Sporting

case hud boon turned over to special lgenos of ine FBl the signu belore.

12o. Valenan ves told thet an agent of the Secros Sarica vas enroude to his

piss end lie. Valinen vas requested to gira all possible assistanca to that

ajanó and to rocap the information developed the prerious nighi over the

telephone.

12. Welchen said hei his finn had recsired a noney order balicrod to

o been a posial money order fur Spl.45 iron 4. Hidell. The retura address

:?. 0. Box 2915, Dalles, Penas, The cidas was postcarted in Delles on

3-12-53 and had been aisaailed.

15. Waldnan said that tha weapon ordered was described as an Isclian,

Me, carbine uype, do5 calibre, tich a 4 po. celescopic sigui,

3/L dieneter ¿ube.

me serial maber of the i:. sa sent tas C-2755.

1. Keldsaa said that agends of uhe 33I had beon aù his fira Eron. 10:03

103

HH 54756 DocId:32267344 Page- 109

---

## Page 110

BIOGRAPHY

Forrest V. Sorrels

Retired

Former Special Agent in Charge

Dallas, Texas

Forrest V. Sorrels, former SAIC of the Secret Service

Field Office in Dallas, Texas, was the person who handled

the Secret Service arrangements with SA Winston Lawson of the

White House Detail.

Sorrels headed an office in Dallas consisting of five

agents. A sixth agent, Mike Howard, was in residence at

Fort Worth. Sorrels was no stranger to Presidential protec-

tion, having been involved in the planning for FDR's motorcade

in Dallas in 1935. He did two previous protective assign-

ments with President Kennedy in 1961-62 when the President

visited Speaker Sam Rayburn at Dallas' Baylor Hospital and

fox Rayburn's funeral in Bonham, Texas.

Sorrels met the White House political advance man in

early November, 1963, and went to several meetings with him.

He also first traveled the motorcade route and surveyed the

ultimate terminus, the Trade Mart, where conflict had arisen

between the political advance man and SS agents about the

security arrangements.

Sorrels rode in the motorcade and was the first identified

Secret Service Agent to go to the Texas School Book Deposi-

tory and conduct an investigation.

HH 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 110

---

## Page 111

Sorrels Biography - page 2

He was present when the first eyewitnesses were questioned

and sat in on the questioning of Oswald and Ruby.

Sorrels was questioned extensively by the Warren Commis-

sion and gave them affidavits in connection with his duties

in Dallas.

He bluntly refused to be interviewed in Dallas recently

when contacted by the staff of this Committee.

HH 54756 DocId: 32267344

Tage 111

---

## Page 112

KENNEDY

OUTSIDE. CONTACT REPORT

005439

DATE 2/2/78 TIME 2:10f

I.

Identifying Information:

Name_FORREST SORRELS

Address 3319 HANoVER

HomE: 368-8371

Telephone Bus:

847-1009

, DALLAS, TEXAS

Type of Contact: X Telephone

Person

II..

Summary of Contact:

I called Forrest sorrels, former agent in charge

Secret Service, Dallas office, now retired, to try to

arrange for an interview. I told Mr. Sorrels who I was

and asked him if we could arrange for an interview.

He was very abrupt, stating, "If you want to know what I

have to say, reai my testimony in the Warren Commission Report.

I have nothing to add or detract from that." He then told

me that he would not talk with me and before I could say anythi

elsa, he stated,

"That's all I have to say" and he hung up.

I did not pursue the matter, not wanting to

cause an incident.

ITT.

Recommended Follow-up (if any):

HW 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 112 /

---

## Page 113

0028953

8/U0

817. 1598 (Revised)

W10R1Y15H112037

i-1-00)

UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE

TREASURY DEPARTMENT

Field (Dallas)

ORIGIN

TYPE OF CASE

Protective Researck

INVESTIGATION MADE AT

Dallas, Texas

INVESTIGATION MADE BY

SAIC Forrest Vo Sorrels

DETAILS

OFFICE

STATUS

Dallas, Texas

Continued

PERIOD COVERED

17-24-63

FILE HO S

00-2-34,030

TITLE OR CAPTION

Assassination at President Kenedy

Jack Leon luby - slayer of Lee Harvey

Oswald, charged with

murder of President

Kennedy

SYNOPSIS

Jack Baby questioned by SAIC Forrest V..

Sorrels shortly after Puby shot Leo Harvey

Oshald in basement of police station, Dallas,

Texas, about Il:20 A.Mo, Not. 2l4s 1963.

DETAILS OF INVESTICATION

On the norning of Norember 24, 1963, Inspector Ton Kelley and I were for the

office of Assistant Chief of Police Charles Batchelor on the third t100r of the

City Hall, Dallas, Texas, Shortly alter I1 A.M. We obserred the crowd across thie

street on Commerce Street south of the City Hall.

Some trenty or thirty mintes

later we heard that Lee Harvey Oswald had been shotaby Jack Ruby, night Glul opsa

tor. Inspector Kelley and I went to the basement of the city hall where we heard

that Oswald had been shot and I observed Oswald ontafloor of the jail. office and

someone appeared to be administering artificial respiration. I then rent to a

nearby phone and called Deputy Chief Paul Paterni in Washington and Informed hin

in re to the above.

-I then went to offica of Capt. Will Fritz, Homicide Bureau, but found that he

was not there, I made inquiries as to thereabous of fack luby and ras informed

thau he had been taken to the city jail. I then went to the jail elevatos and

after identitying tyself was taken to the fifth 11oor of the jail and to a cell

where Jack Fuby was standing with tho uniformed officerss one on each side of him.

Paby only had on his shorus as his clothes had apparently been taken fron it.

identified myself to Faby and informed him that I would like to ask him some ques

tions. He wanted to now if it was for newspapers or magazines and I told him it

was not. He geemed to hesitate and I told him that I had seen Honest Jos (Rubin

Goldstein, a well known jerish pawn broker and used tools dealer on Flm Street,

across the street just a shori time before and that I knew a number of the Jewish

(continued)

DISTRIBUTION

ief

COPIES

Orig. &

2 cos

REPORT MADE BY

DATE

1007

Dallas

APPROVE

1

CC

54756 DocId:32267344

Page 113

SPECIAL AGENT

Votorrel

SPSCIAL AGENT IN CHARGE

(CONTINUE ON PLAIN PAPERY

DATE

2-3-64

1007

---

## Page 114

00-2-34,030

Page 2.

business men in the city and he stated that that was good enough for him and

what was it I wanted to know.

Fuby, in answer to my questions, stated that his name is Jack Ruby and

that his last name was originally Rubenstein; that he was in the entertainment

business,

operating the Carousel Club (13122 Cormerce Street) and the Vegas

Club, (3508 Oax Lawn), and that he lived at 223 S. Ewing Sto, ipt. 207s Dallas,

Texas.

Ruby was then asked the question: "Jack, why?" To this question he replied

that on tha morning that President Kennedy was assassinated that he bad been to

the newspaper office (Dallas Morning News) and put an advertisement for his busi

ness. and that when he heard that the President had been shot that he had cancelled

the ad and that his business had been closed for three days; that when he read an

article about Mrs. Kennedy having to cone to Dallas for the trial he thought why

should she be brought down here and have to go through the ordeal on account of

that no good - (Oswald); that he had seen about a letter to little Caroline

(Kennedy); that he had been to the Synagogue on Friday night (Nov. 22, 1963) and

heard an eulogy on President Kennedy; that his sister, who had recently had an

operation, had been hysterical, and that he guessed he had worked himself up to

a state of insanity to where he just had to do what he had done, and that he

guessed he felt that he had to show the world that a jew had guts". He also

stated that he was afraid that he (Oswald) might not get just punishment as he

had known instances where just punishment had not bean given.

Ruby stated that he had been a labor organizer years ago. When asked if

he had ever been convicted of a felony he replied that ho had not. He stated

that he had been arrested and taken before a Justice of the Peaco in 195l and

was released (investigation of violation of State Liguor Jaws).

When Ruby was asked why he had the gun (with which he shot Oswald) he stated

that he usually carried a gun as he often carried large amount of money taken in

his business.

In answer to questions concerning his parents, he stated that his father

is Joseph Pubenstein, bom in Pussia and that his mother is deceased and that she

was born in Poland. He stated that his civil attorney is Stanley Kaufman.

Ruby was asked the specific question as to whether or not anyone else was

involved in this case and he stated that there was not and that he acted alone

and that he had not known Oswald before.

Paby stated that he had very high regard for the Dallas Police Department

and that they all knew him (or some similar remark). There were some detactives

standing in back of me when I was questioning Ruby. I do not recall that I asked

him how he got down in the basement where he shot Oswald.

not Pret on Bond by at tient , the too on to

That question may have

to Puby as soon as possible for the purpose of determining if he was involved with

others and if he iner or had any connection with Oswald.

Later on,, at about 3:15 Fil, on Nov. 2l, 1953, I was in Capt. Fritz's office

where Ruby was being questioned by Capt. Fritz at which time, in answer to ques-

tions, he stated he might get attorneys Ion Howard, Fred Bruner, Stanley Kaufman,

civil

attorney, Jim Arnton of C. A. Droby to represent him; that he had his name

1007

54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 114

---

## Page 115

00-2-34,030

Page 3.

legally changed in Dallas from Pubenstein to Ruby; that the revolver (Colt

2 inch barrel, •38 Cal., serial #2744-IW) had been purchased by him from

Ray on Singleton (Ray's Hardware & Sporting Goods, 730 Singleton, Dallas,

Texas) about three years ago. (NOTE:

the above described revolver is equippad

with a harmer guard). He stated that his room-mate is George Senator. He stated

that he had come into the basement of the police station from the lain Streat

ramp; that he felt that Oswald was a "red" and that ha was alone; that he saw

him (Oswald) In show-up room and that he knew who he was going 10x.

Ruby stated that he didn't want to be a nartyr and that it was a build-u

of grievance. (Ruby told me when I talked to him in the jail coll that he had

been, grieving ever since the President had been shot).

He stated that ha had

closed botie of his clubs, the Vegas at 3508 Oak Lawn and the Caronsel. at 1372%

Cormerce Street; that he had never seen Oswald bafore; that ha, luby, had at

one time beein in the mail order business, that he had been a labor orgarizer

In Chicago; that he has a lordness for the police department and that when

officer stick had gotten killed sometime ago that he grieved about its thai

Saturday night he had driven around and that people wore in clubs laughing

and no one seemed to be in nourning; that he saw eulogies of President Kennedy

on IV and that he has seen Fresident Kennedy's brother Bobby on TV; that he

felt that all this had created a moment of insanity; that he had read about the

letter sonsona sent to "little Carolyn"; that he knots the Police Department

is wonderiul and that his heart is with the Police Department and that he had

hopes that if ever there nas an opportunity for participation in police battle

that he could be a part of it with them.

Ruby further stated that his mother and dad were separated for 25 years;

that he owes Uncle San" a big piece of money (income tax); that he loves the

city (Dallas); that his sister was operated on recently and she was hysterical

about the Fresident being killed; that he went to the Synagogue Friday night

(Nov. 22nd); that he went over where the wreaths were where Prasident was shot;

and

that

he wants Captain Fritz to not hate him.

He further stated that in Chicago when he was with the union that one of

his dear friends was killed and that he had come to place where it happened;

that Leon Cook was the man; that he, Ruby, was so upset about this that his

mother told him to leave; that man named Martin is one that killed. Cook and

that Martia was political and had affiliations and got out of it.

when questioned as to what union he, Puby, was with he stated that it was

the Scrap Iron & Junk Dealers Association. Ruby stated thai his politics are

Democratic but that he votes for the man.

Fuby, who services masheterias in Dallas,

plant in Detroit, Michigang and Eyman Pubensizin, a salesman, in Chicago.:

in Da an a sales to enlazo

He stated that he has brothers Samuel.

, Earl Paby, who opsrates a cleaning

Ruoy stated that he rould not think of cormitting a felony; that he has a

high regard for the police and that he had called Detective Sims and wanted to

bring them sandwiches as he knew they were having a tough time but was informed

that they were all right and didn't need them; that he was trying to locata some

of the IV people to give them to and that was when he went to the show-up room

and that when he went thare he saw Oswald and thai was first time he had ever seen

anyone like that; that there was no one else but him (Ruby) involved in this case.

He refused to answer some of the questions asked him by Capt. Fritz and at one

time asked Cast. Fritz if he didnt think he (Ruby) would maka a good actor.

1007

1N 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 115

---

## Page 116

00-2-34,030

Page 4.

Ruby stated that after his friend Leon Cook was killed that he took Cook's

middle name "Leon" for his own middle name.

When Fudy was questioned by me in the jail cell he appeared to be somewhat

emotionally upset.but gate prompt answers to the quastions asked him. He saemed

more composed whan he was quastioned in Captain Fritz's office and gave quick

answers to questions put to him.

In response to some questions he would very

quiely reply "I will not answer that".

DISFOSITION

Tois case renains perding in the Dallas District.

HH 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 116

1007

---

## Page 117

ENTIRE STATES COVERSVENT

Memorandum

TO

: Chief

Attn.: Inspector Kelley

FROM : SLIC SorrelS, Dallas

DATE: Lay 19, 19át

SUBJECT: Cellar, Coffce Fouse, Fart Warts, Texas.

Reference Is zada to ID pione call this data noa Inspector Kelley woereir

Instrueted

that it be deterinad wbether or not custorers of the Cellar, an all nien

coffee house in Fort Worth, Texas, are permittad: to orlng their own liquor to-thisi

place, and to also ascentala 11 tiero zie any signs posted 1a toe place regarding:.

alcoholic beverages.

On 3-19-6 contacted by pooro Ma. W. A. PhIllips in charge of the -Texas Ilquor

Control Zourd, Fort lorts, Texas, who stated 1t 1s pernissible for patrons visitira

right clubs, restaurants, ete., to take their own liquor and dilai 1t as these places

up to 12:15 A.M. ca weerdays and 1:15 A.M. on Sundays. Mi. Falllips stated that:

co liçuor 1s serveà by tos Cellar esployees as tils place does not have a license to:

sell intodcating beverages. : Mr. Phillips stated that the Cellar does sell. initation

drines, but that such arlars are not considered as alcobolic beverages because tice

alconalic content is too lon. Mr. Phillips states that he sends undercover lavesisra

tors to the Cellar iron tie to tise to obtala samples of nixed drinks sold by the.

Cellar, but that so far ha kas not found that these tuitation niced drinks contain.ev

tre rintaus reguirerents of alcobal for thea to ba classed as alcohalic beverages..

fir. Palllips stated that toey also check tais place to see if there are any minors:

no are drisklog alcoholic beverages, but that they have not found any violatioes so

fax.

0n 5-19-64 contacted by poore Pat Kirksiood who is the owner of the Cellar vno

rein stated that they do not sell eny dilais containing alcohol, other than the alco

01 snich 1s contaized in the flar lay used in ulxing the Imitation cocktails, etc.?

e stated that custorers are peraltied to bring their own liquor and that they sell.

tce setups to the custosers. 5s stated that no custoners are permitted to drin's alco.

holic beverages broazat by thesselves atie= 12:15 A. M. weekdays and 1:15 A. M. 0n.-

Sundays; that at 5 tinutes to 12 each right except sunday nomings waich toulá be it

5 sinutes to 1 o'clocs, that a1 accurcesent is zade over the loud speaker syste=

that it 1s "bottle tire thica: rears that anyone saving a bottle of ilquor will have

ti're 1t to thel cars: c= elsa check 1t.at the casa register and pick it up when they.

Leave the place, end that under so cirrustasces sould be: perait drinsing of alcocol

beverages after the cunñow tle as to do so voula zeas that his place vould be closed.

Le also stated that his esployees ate all Intructed to keep a careill watca as to ..

liederaje custorers drinklay liquor aid teat they do not perait then to do so 1n his:

establishent. Fe statad thai tico pacisaga stores close at 10 P.M. esch night, erd

that usually there 1s an anzeuscenant soda acout 9:30 P.M. or shortly thereafter tea:

Liguor stores close at 10 ?..Ma. uad ibat azyone wastlag to get a bottle shoula do

SO

-20

Pat Kittocà stated that la does sot tave any signs on the talls ol his place re-

garding alcorolic beverages as it 1s known tant tsey are not permitted to sell alcobolic

beverages in his place on business.

OYPICE OF THE CHIPP

15=.

MT. j. Lee ]

General Cou

Resident's

"Assassinat

200 Marylans

Washington,

Dear Mx. Hai

Attache

dealing wit

the Dallas. i

-: March 24, 29

Attachment

COMMISSIOY ExHIBIT 1020 Continued

702

barit

---

## Page 118

00-2-342030

FIELD OFFICE -Dallas, lexas.

SAIG

DATE

- FOITeSt V• S05rOl3

= H0735bur 30, 1963

On Novenbar 4, 1963, phons call Has raceived fron SAIC Cerald A. Behn, White

House Datall, stating that the Trada Mart had been suggestad for tha luncheon

placa for The President on the pmposed visit to Dallas about November 218t,

but that 1t was apparently not as good as the Woman's Bullding at the Stata

Fair Grounds; that the Trade Kart had about sixty entrancsa and six cat Halk3;

that thesa placas should be inapected and that he ba rotiidod thereto.

Spacial Agant Robert A, Stowart and I then procsaded to tha Trado Mast Bulldleg,

2100 Stamons Irseriay,

than to Marbot Hall, Just across Muustlal Bird, sTor

tha Trada Mart, and then to tha Wonan's Bldgo, Fair Park.

Then returned to the office and telaphoned suld Bahn and Informed his that tho

Trada Hart did posa security problans dua to the fact that there were thres

floors above the courtyard where the luncheon would have to ba hold, each floor

havirg balconioa on all four sidas and tio suspanded bridges or cat-valia on

oach 11a0r, and that there ware nady entrances on each 1100r. •

SAIC Bohn was Inforrad that Market Hall, which has ona hundred ind Barn meriza

fest without any colums or pillars would ba satisfactory security wiss, bnt that

1t was not available on ine date in question.

It waa further sratad that tha

Woman's Bldg. offered no problems as to security, but that it had many small

supporting beans, los celling and somewhat unsightly.

On Moranbar 13, 1963, accompandad Special Agent Winston O. Luzon and Hr. Jack

Puterbauja is oilles of tr. A. W. Cullum, Brosident of Chander of Camarco, the

want to tier tha Trada Mart end then tha Koman's Butld1a8, Stata Vair Crounds.

Ma also vant to oiiica of Mr. Folis Mcknight, Editor of tha Dallas Turas Morald.

Also accomparded SA Lawson to LoTs Flad hero wa net Arlizon Diroctor Coker end

Asst. Ablation Diractor lebroady and examined proposed arga for spostlag as ":

plasga 01 Tha Presidant, Tha Vice-Presidant and tea prasa..

On Hoverber li, 1963, accomparded SA Lawson to offica of Mr Egary Locks, Actorsayi

Rapubllo National Bmk Bldg-, for further discussion of plana for tha sials,: Als

Cready and study made of proposed arrival point. Wa also drova tha outs that

would possibly be salacted In ordar to approxinata tha terel tim that muld ba:

neededs

On Novembar I5, 1963, we again went to the Trade Mart and conforred with Hanagar

Cooper.

We also manu to office of Chief of Polica desse Curry ard conferrod Hita

him, Infoining hin that luncheon site had not bean dafinitaly salaciod and shat.

vo would inat with hin later. la then rat tr. Oullen and Mi.. Ji Starind and

tro Putarbugh at the Baier Botal.

During the sitaroon so attended a concaltitu

meeting at tha Baker Hotal attended by Charber of Commerce Managor Cullet, are

cinera share genaral discuasion vas had ralatira do plana for the visiù,

1392

HH 54756. DocId:32267344 Page 118

Lind did lined note is

---

## Page 119

-.i.

C0-2-34,030

Paga 2.

On Morember 16, 1963, accompaniod SA Lauson to the Trade Mart Whare w9 vat

Kanagar#. E, Cooper and others rolativa to security, catarlag, ate.

Also

nat with prosa raprasentativas and ohara re location ci carag, etc.

On Novanber 1B, 2963, accorpanied SA Largon to the Trade Mart where u9 nat

Mr. Wayna Farkes of the White Housa Staff, Manayer Cooper and rambera öf his

staff, and conferred re proposed arrangerents of the luncheon. We than want

to Lova Field where ia rat Daputy Polica Chief Lundy and Aast. Chief Bacholor

and again lookad over place were the planes would park. Asst. Avlation Hanagar

Hotryady not us and was in on this discussion. We then clockad tha motorcada

route with the abova nased police officials from Lova Flold to tha Trada Mart.

We aldo discussad the area to be sacured for parking of the rotorcade vanieloa:

On Hovenber 19, 1963, w9 not Asst. Chief Bachelor and Deputy Chiat Stevensonlat:

the Trada Mart and ners also joined by Deputy Chief Burris of the Flo Departrant

and Trada Mart Managar Cooper and his assistantsand the detalla of tha security.

of the bullding ware discussed in detall.

On Novamber 20, 1963, he procesded to Love Field whera we nat Asst, Arlation

Manager McGready and started regotiations to obtain additional apacs for tha

arrival and dapartura of the threa planes. Ho then raturned to tha Irade dari

for further conferenca with Managor Cooper and othere.

IDya Fiolà and not Major Charles Nedbal and Asat. Aviation Dirsctor McGrady

and final plars alscussad.

On Hoverber 21, 1953, se aitended meeting at the Bloon Advertising Agency,

512 South Akard St.

We then sent to love Field where we rat Daputy Polica

Chiefs Charlay Bachelor and M. I. Flsher, A3st. Avlation Diractor Modready

and Major Medbal and final security arrangementa tara made after addttiona?

space had bean obtained. We then went to Continantal Bua Compary, enrouta

to offics of 0h1al 01 Polies Curry where ma sat with his and his comand officer

and'agads vart orer linal security plans. It was agreed that Chiat Guizy would

ba coordlaator at prezious resting and that ha would call on tha Dallas Counsy

Shar19I B131 Dacker and Major Guy Sniti, Teras Deparment Di Publio Salaty, for

additiona? personnel for security purposes in connaction with the vialù si Tha

Prosidant to Dallas on Morezber 22nd. Sherifi Decker end Majos Salta bad Assa

contastad and agraed to this plan and offered their full eupport.

On tha evaring of lorenbar 21st, wa rat Speclal Agents accozanying The Pros1

dent's car and the follow up car and upon their arrival via cargo plans aù lavo

Flali, and through the cooperation of the office of the Arlation Director tha

cars varo plased in das baserent of the Addaistration Building sito condiruoa

polica guard.

sorrel

Special Agont 14 Char59.

1392

HH 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 119

---

## Page 120

ST I LOUT OF FORRET V. SORL, SPICIAL GT I: CHARGE,: U. S. SLCHET SURVICE,

DALLAS, TEXAS, NOVEMB-A 28, 1963.

On Movezber 22, 1963, In the Presidential Motorcado from Love Feld thrown

downtown Dallas, I has riding In tha lead car which preceded the car of the

Presidant of the United States.. In tils car was Dallas County Sheriff Bill

Decker, Chief of Police Jesse Curry of Dallas, who was driving the car, and

Secret Service Special Agent Winston G. Lawson, Spacial Agent Lawson was

sitting on the front seat by Chief of Police Ourry.

Sheriff Decker was sitting

on the left side of the reir seat and I wis sitting on the right side.

Remarks had been made, while we were on Main Streat, about the huge crowds,

and I rimarked that they ware even hanging out of windowa of tha buildinga along

the rouba.

When e turned rigit off of liain Street to Houston Street, I noted that there

were several windows oper: In a building just north of Main Street whore Elm Strast

crosses, this being the Texis Scholbook Depository, Lll Elm Street.. I noticed

that there here sone people looking out of the windows, but did not note any

other activity.

We made the left hand tum onto Elm Street and were proceading in the directio

of the underpass enroute to Steinons Freaway. When the lead car tas approximatoly

ons half of the distance from the intersection of Houston and Elm Surests do the

first underpass, an a nouncerent hid been made over the radio for those at the

Trade Hart that the lotorcade ras about five minutes avaj.. le were due at tha

Tride Vert at 12:30 P.M. just a noment before the five minuie arrival radio

announcerant was made I had renarked that we were not going to be ovas about alva

Minutes Iate as It Has then approximately 12:30 P. M.

When we were at a point approximately three fourths of the distanca betroan

tho Houston and Sla Street interse-tions and the first underpaas, i haard was

sounded Itke a rifle shot, and said "what's that?", as I turned to my right to

200' back In tha direction of the terrace and the Texas Schoolbook Dapository.

Building:

Then I haird two nore shots I said, "lets get out of hers", I looked

towards the top of the terrace to my right as the souid of the shots seaned tó

come fron that direction. I noted that the President's car had excaloraied Ita

speed and was fast closing the gap between us.

A notorcycle pulled up alongside

of the car and Chiet Curry jelled "Is anybody hurt?", to mich the officor se

plied in the afftrintive, and Chief Curry Imediately broadcast to surround tha

building. Ey that time re had gotten just about under the underpass when tha

President's car pulled up alongside, and at that tine Chiel Curryig car had

started to pick up. speed, and someone jelled to get to the narest hospital, and

Chief Curry broadcast for the hospital to be ready. We then proceedad as Laat

as possible to the hospital and as soon as the President, Vice President, and

Governor Connally were inside the hospital I incediately left in a polios car

Io= tha faxus Schoolboo! Lepository Building.

Zonent ??

orseli

Forrest V. Sorrels

HW 547561 Mental: 322677911

afe 120

1392

---

## Page 121

OlIONAL FORM NO. 10

3010-101

UNITED STATES GOVEKNMENT

Memorandum

10

:. Mr. Rankin

002603

ROUGH DRAFT

DASE: Maxch 23, 1964

FROM

:Mr. Griffin and Mr. Hubert

SUBJECT:

Activities of Dallas on Sunday, March 22, 1964.

At approximately 8:il, we met with Special Agent Forrest

Sorrels

in Mr. Hubert's room at the Adophus Hotel, discussed various aspects of

our esperiences in Dallas to date, and his own general views on the situation

in Dallas..

Sorrels repeated to us his account of his first interview

with Ruby on November 24. He was unwilling to state that he believed that

Ruby was telling the truth in talking to him. We discussed generally the

attitude of the Dallas Police Department, and Mr. Sorrels was emphatic in

affirming his belief that that all of the top officers of the Dallas Police

Department were honest and desirous of learning the truth concerning..

Ruby's means of entry to the Police station. He said that it is

the general

feeling among the officers with whom he has come in contact that Ruby did not

gain entrance as he claimed by coming down the Main Street ramp when Pierce's

car drove out.

He also stated that he believed Chief Curry and the other

top officers would readily acknowledge the mistakes they had made in handling

the transfer of Oswald,

Mr. Sorrels stressed the extreme pressures that

were placed upon the Police Department by members of the press, and the extent

to which the Interrogation and handling of Oswald by the Police Department was

hampered by the activities of the news media.

Soriels stated that he personally

told Chief Curry after he learned that Curry had announced to the press

the 10 o'clock movement time that he would nove Oswald at an unannounced

time during the evening.: Curry stated to Sorrels that he did riot want to

cause hard feelings with the press and would stick to the 10 o'clock

However, Sorrels stated that it was understood by all that

10 o'clock was not the exact time of novement, but that it was the earliest

Oswald would be roved. Sorrels stated to me earlier in the afternoon that

the exact novement of Oswald depended upon the time that Captain Fritz

completed his questioning of Oswald. Sorrels stated that he was present

during thelatter part of the questioning of Oswald and that he was of the

opinion that Oswald was beginning to loosen up.

In fact, Sorrels stated

that the gestioning of Oswald on Send Sunday morning, November 25, was

longer than he had expected because of Oscald's more cooperative attitude..

On at least one occasion, Chief Curry entered the Homicide office and inquired

of Fritz how long it would be before Oswald was moved, and Fritz indicated

that they were having a successful session. Sorrels does not remember that

anyone else except Chief Curry entered the office and, of course, he does

not know whether Curry commnicated Exitz' optimism to other nembers of the

Police Department of members of the press.

Mr. Griffin and tir. Sorrels talked privately while walking the streats

:of Dallas between 9:30 p.m. and 11:00 p.n.

Sorrels seemed to want to speak

HH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 121

---

## Page 122

Page 2.

at length about his experiences in connection with the

assasination of

the President and murder of Oswald. It is Mi. Griffin's view that Mr. Sorrels

will be an extremely cooperative witness and that he will frankly acknowledge

the difficulties which the Secret Service encountered between November. 22

and November 24.

Sorrels is extremely disturbed about the failure of his.

office to give adequate protection to the President. Although he was not

pressed on this matter in our conversation, he seemed to desire to assume

almost personal responsibility for the events that occurred, and it is a

matter. of deep sadness to him.

Although he tends to stress

the futility of

attempting to protect the President from snipers or in large crowds, his atti

so extremaly fair and honest that I think he will welcome and

truthfully appraise any constructive suggestions which

members of the fon-

mision may offer

for the future protection of the President.

Mr. Sorrels also spoke with Mr. Griffin at length concerning relation-

ships between the Federal Bureau of Investigation and both the Secret Service

and the local Police Department.

Again, he was not pressed on the subject;

however, he made it clear he believed there was a certain amount of il) will

between the Dallas Police Department and the Bureau during the trade im

mediately after the assasination of the President and that relationships between

those two agencies had never been especially cordial even before that date.

He emphasized also the marked change in the cooperation which his office has

received from the Bureau since the assasination of President. Kennedy on matters

of protection as compared with their attitude prior to the assasination.

He also comanted on Special Agent Hosty.

His characterization of Hosty scened

to indicate the rather brusque person who is both supexcilious and distrustful

with respect to others. Sorrels stated that Hosty told one of his agents

that if questioned by the Commission concerning his failure to notify the

Secret Service that Oswald was working in a building that was along the route

the President's caravan would take, Hosty would state that he was so busy he•

never read the newspapers and did not know where the caravan would travel.

Mr. Griffin asked Mt. Sorrels if it was his understanding that Hosty would

indicate that the story he would give the Commission was a fabrication

and Mr. Sorrels indicated that he understood that it could be Hosty's

attitude. He also indicated that he and perhaps others believed that if

there were to be a fall guy within the Bureau, it would be losty.

Beginning at about 10 a,m., Mr. Griffin, Mr. Hubert, and SA John

Joe Howlette visited the area between 1026 N. Beckley and 223 South Ewing

Street. It was noted that the 1000 block on North Beckley begins at Sth Street.

This may explain the taxi driver's notation that he let Oswald out of his cab

in the 500 block.

The cab driver may have been gonfusing Sth Stxcet with the

500 block. We noted in the 1026 North Beckley area that there is an Enco

Service Station directly across the street from that address and that diagonally

across Zangs Boulevard is a Sleight Spped Wash-Dry establishment. We further

noted that the distance from 1026 North Beckley Street to the nearest bus

stop on Marsalis via 5th Street was one-half mile. We observed also that

although the spot at which Tippett was shot is closer to Ruby's residence

via Patton Street than l0th Street, the l0th Street route would probably

HH 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 122

---

## Page 123

Page 3.

be the most logical one for a person who was not acquainted with the short

•cuts in the neighborhood, of who did not have a map with him. We also noted

that there is a Marsalis bus stop at 10ch Street.

We also visited the area of the Texas School book Depository and

noted in particular that Houston Street is barricaded on the North side of

the Texas School Book Depository. Mr. Howlette indicated that this condition

existed on November 22.

The area to the North of the lexas School Book

Depository consists of a Railroad Yard and various warehouse facilities.

We toured the Police and Court Building with Captain Nichols from

about 1:15 p.n. til about 3:15 p.I. Nichols was extremely cooperative

and gave the impression of sincerely wanting to find the truth, since he

used his own initiative to find places where Ruby night have entered the

building.: From about 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., Mr: Griffin and ir. Howlette

toured Irving, Texas, and the Oak Lawn section of Dallas. Irving was.

visited to view the relationship between the home of Bill. Stevens and Mrs.

Paine.. The houses are not sufficiently close together to suggest that

Stevens would necessarily have been aware of the Oswalds. However, Stevens

was not employed during the daytime, or if he were particularly friendly

with other neighbors in the area it may well have been that he would have

known of Oswald.: It maj be significant that Stevens home had a "For Sale"

sign on it when we saw it. It should also be noted that the Carouse)

Club was closed on Saturday, March 21, and Sunday, March 22. if the Vegas

Club was open on Sunday, March 22, there was no particular activilty about il.

It was particularly noted that the Vegas Club, Phil's Delicatessen,

and the Lucas B & B are within 100 yards of each other..

"Eva Grant's

house is no more than

three blocks from the Vegas Club.

The home of Maj. General Edwin Walker was noted to be on the street

running parallel to Oak Lawn on block West. Travel distance from the Vegas

Club to the Walker residence would be at least one half mile, probably less.

Also, the cavalcade of President Kennedy passed one block fom the Vegas Club

going East on. Lemon,

Mr. Howlette and Mr. Griffin also examined the spot where Ruby photo-

graphed the "Impeach Earl Warren" sign. This sign is located on the southwest

corner of Ross and Central Expressway not far from the central business district

of town.

The sign is approximately 3-1/2 feet high and 5 or 6 ft. long.

It is on a small green metal stander and is not particularly conspicuous.

It can only be seen by one traveling South on Central Expressway or East on

Ross.

The language "Impeach Earl Warren" and the word "write" appear to be

part of s concercially printed and mass distrlbuted poster. The notation

"Post Office Box 1757" is obviously/painted on the sign

at the bottom of the

sign in small blue letters with Mr. Hill's name and address. Since this

NH 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 123

---

## Page 124

Page 4.

bottom portion had been partially obliterated, it was not possible to read

his first name or the complete address, not was it possible to determine

whether or not Mr. Hill's telephone number was on the sign. Mr. Howlette

stated that it was his understanding that this was not the orignal sign that

appeared at this spot, but was identical to it. He said the original sign

had been painted over of in some way disturbed after Oswald was killed and

that this was a new poster.

The stander which bore the "Impeach Earl Warren"

poster-also had stickers on it which said "Serve America - Join the John Birch

Society"

Mr. Howletté and Nr. Griffin also visited the vicinity of Radio Station

KLIF. KLIF is approximately block South of the Police and Courts Building on

Jackson. Agent Howlette inforued Mr. Griffin that Gordon McLendon, a friend

of Jack Ruby's and the manager of KlIF, is now a candidate for the Democratic

nomination for the United States Senate. SA Sorrels told Mr. Griffin that a

woman had shot at Mr. McLendon recently as he was boarding a plane at: Dallas

Love Field.

Mr. Howlette and Mr. Griffin also visited the vicinity of the Ritz

Delicatessen, which is approximately 1 block from the Carousel Club.

The Carousel is located on the comer of Field and Commerce,

diagonally across the street to the North from the dolphus Hotel and

about three doors fron the Can

ike accent

HH 54756 DooId:32267344

Page 124

---

## Page 125

PROCEDURE

KENNEDY SUBCOMMITTEE HEARINGS

1.

The Chairman should recognize Elizabeth Berning,.

Clerk of the Committee, to read for the record those Members

who are officially designated to be on the Subcommittee

today, pursuant to Committee Rule 12.3.

2.

The hearing should go into Executive Session.

There should be a motion:

that today's hearing and one subsequent day

of hearing be held in Executive Session

since on the basis of information obtained by

the Committee, the Committee believes the

evidence or testimony may tend to defame, degrade,

or incriminate people, and conseguently Section 2(K)

(5) of Rule ll of the Rules of the House and Committee

Rule 3.3 (5), require such hearings be in Executive

Session.

There must be three Members present to vote on this motion.

A rollcall vote should be taken.

3.

The Chairman should swear the witness at this

time..

He should state that he understands a copy of our

Rules have already been given to the witness. He should

ask the witness if this is true. The Chairman should

H# 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 125

---

## Page 126

-2=

state that the witness is appearing pursuant to subpoena.

4.

The Chairman should give a brief statement con-

cerning the subject of the investigation. He should state

that House Resolution 222 mandates the Committee

"to conduct a full and complete investigation

and study of the circumstances surrounding the

assassination and death of President John F. Kennedy

including determining whether the existing laws of

the United States concerning the protection of the

President and the investigatory jurisdiction and

capability of agencies and departments are adequate

in their provisions and enforcement, and whether

there was full disclosure of evidence and information

among agencies and departments of the United States

Government, and whether any evidence or information

not in

the possession of an agency or department would

have been of assistance in investigating the assas-

sination, and why such information was not provided

or collected by that agency or department, .

and to make recommendations to the llouse . .

-if the

Select Committee deems it appropriate for the amendmenl

N4 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 126

---

## Page 127

-. 3

-

of existing legislation or the enactment of new

legislation.

5.

The questioning of the witness may now

proceed.

Fifth Amendment

If the witness takes the Fifth Amendment to

6.

a question, and the Committee desires to immunize the

witness, the Chairman should give the witness a copy

of Judge Bryant's order immunizing the witness and

compelling testimony from him. The witness should now

be directed to answer the question that was propounded.

If the Witness Continues to Object

7.

Pursuant to Committee Rule 3.5, any objection

of the witness or witness' counsel must be specifically

ruled upon by the Chairman. Should the witness object.

on the grounds of pertinency, he should be given a brief

explanation of the pertinency of the question and then

be directed to answer it.

1N 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 127

---

## Page 128

-4-

8.

At the conclusion of the questioning of the

witness, pursuant to Rule 3.6 of the Committee, the

Chairman should offer the witness and/or his counsel

five minutes to explain or amplify the witness' testimony.

9..

The witness should be informed that he is

under the continuing subpoena of the Committee, and

subject to the call of the Chair at a future date.

HH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 128

---

## Page 129

BIOGRAPHY

James Wilcott

James Wilcott, age 47, is a former finance officer

for the Central Intelligence Agency. He served with the CIA

in this capacity for a

nine year period beginning in 1957.

From 1947 to 1951, MI. Wilcott served in the U. S. Army. After

his discharge from the Army, he attended college for two years

and then business school in Syracuse, New York.

Mr. Wilcott's first three years with the CIA were

spent at headquarters. Following this three year period, he

was transferred to the CIA Tokyo Station where he remained for

four years.

Mr. Wilcott was serving at the Tokyo Station as a

cash disbursement officer at the time of the assassination of

President John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963.

Following his tour of duty in Tokyo, he was reassigned

to Agency headquarters for a one year period..

Mr. Wilcott then

spent the

next year, his final year as a CIA employee, at the

Miami Station. In April 1966, he resigned from the CIA.

Mr. Wilcott presently resides with his wife Elsie, a form-

er CIA secretarial employee, at 2761 Atlantic Street, Concord,

California. He is now an electronics technician for the Badger

Meter Company, located in Richmond, California.

NH 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 129

---

## Page 130

PREVIOUS STATEMENTS BY JAMES WILCOTT

I.

Select Committee Interview of James Wilcott,

ducted January 28, 1978, at the Wilcott residence.

Mr. Wilcott's interview included discussion of his

personal history, associations and positions held as a CIA

employee, alleged CIA and FBI harassment of

Wilcott following

his resignation from the Agency, and Wilcott's present belief

that Lee Harvey Oswald was a CIA agent at the time of Presi-

dent John F. Kennedy's assassination.

From June 1960 to May 1964, Wilcott was stationed

with the CIA in Tokyo, Japan. It is his contention that during

the hours of shock following the assassination, he was informed

by a CIA case officer that Lee Harvey Oswald was a CIA agent.

Wilcott identified Jerry Fox, a CIA officer in the Soviet

Russia

(SR) Division of the Tokyo Station, as one person who

specifically discussed the Oswald project with him.

Wilcott further contends that while

stationed in Tokyo,

he learned Lee Harvey Oswald's Agency cryptonym. When asked

during the Select Committee

interview whether he could recall

the Oswald cryptonym, he stated he could not. : Wilcott also

contended that a Tokyo Station officer, in conversation with

him, stated that Wilcott had disbursed funds for the alleged

Oswald project. He could not recall during the interview the

date of sum of money disbursed by him for the Oswald project

nor could he identify the station officer who provided him

with this information.

During the interview wilcott was asked why, after

HH 54756 DocId: 32267344 Page 130

---

## Page 131

Wilcott Previous Statements - 2

learning of the alleged Oswald connection to the CIA, he did

not re-check the Tokyo Station disbursement records for

evidence of the Oswald project. In response, he stated that

he viewed the Oswald revelations with disinterest, merely as

shop talk. He further explained that he did not contact any

formal investigative bodies following the

Kennedy assassina-

tion because he considered his information to be hearsay. He

stated that such hearsay would not further any investigative

purposes.

Wilcott also described certain record keeping and

administrative procedures utilized at the CIA Tokyo Station.

In addition, Wilcott discussed his tour of duty at

the CIA Miami Station. He described the general reluctance

of those stationed in Miami to discuss the alleged Oswald con-

nection.

He did indicate his belief that the failed Bay of

Pigs operation was linked to Oswald's fate and JFK's assas-

sination. In addition, Wilcott described one Miami Station

project designed to burn Cuban cane fields.

• He also detailed

his direct participation in an Agency photo intelligence opera-

tion while he was stationed in Miami.

Wilcott described his growing disenchantment with

and

subsequent resignation from the Agency. He alleged specific

instances of surveillance,

harassment, and sabotage conducted

against him by both the CIA and the FBI during the years 1967

to 1970.

NN 54756 DocId:32267344 Page 131

---

## Page 132

Wilcott Previous Statements - 3

II.

James Wilcott's unpublished article, "The Kennedy

Assassination", written during January 1977.

Wilcott's article provides additional background

material and generally supports the position adopted by

him during the Select Committee interview of January 28, 1978.

The article recounts Wilcott's CIA tours of duty in Tokyo and

Miami.

His scenario describes the political and emotional

climate that existed at the Tokyo Station prior to and follow

ing the Kennedy assassination.

He further describes the

failed Bay of Pigs invasion and the growing mutual distrust

between President Kennedy and high-level CIA officials.

Wilcott contends that Oswald

became a CIA agent be-

cause the Agency possessed information personally damaging to

Oswald. The information it possessed thereby gave the Agency

a "handle" against Oswald allowing for his recruitment and use

inside the Soviet Union.

HH 54756

DooId:32267344

Page

132

---

## Page 133

OBJECTIVES

As James Wilcott's position with the CIA was that

of a relatively low-level cash disbursement officer, it is

unlikely that his personal knowledge will pertain to each of the

objectives outlined below. Nevertheless, Wilcott might have

some firsthana knowledge pertaining to Agency activities as

well as secondhand information which might clarify matters

of interest to the Committee.

I.

To determine whether Lee Harvey Oswald had an employee

or agent relationship with the CIA.

A. To identify the purposes for which Lee Harvey

Oswald might have been recruited by the Agency.

B. To determine the possible extent of Agency

contact with LHO.

- Persons who might have been connected with or

have knowledge of the alleged Oswald recruit-

ment and project.

C. To determine what, if any, use might have been

made of Oswald by the Agency.

1. Dates and nature of possible LHO activity for

the Agency.

2. Cryptonym that might have been used by Oswald.

3. Agency station or stations through which

Oswald might have been utilized.

D. To determine what might have been station-level

Agency attitudes towards President Kennedy and his

Administration.

HN 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 133

---

## Page 134

Objective I - page 2

1.

2.

3.

Prior to the Bay of Pigs operation.

Following the Bay of Pigs operation.

At the time of President Kennedy's

assassination.

NH 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 134

---

## Page 135

Objective II

II.

To develop general background and history regarding

possible CIA administrative and financial procedures.

A. To identify possible filing methods and their

purposes:

1. For 201 files.

2. For "black" operations.

B. To identify possible cash disbursement methods

and their purposes.

1.

For project initiation.

2.

For project continuity.

H4 54756

DooId: 32267344

Page

135

---

## Page 136

GENERAL LINES OF INQUIRY

A.

B.

C.

Wilcott's personal history.

Wilcott's employment history with the CIA.

1. Positions

held.

2. Responsibilities and duties.

Wilcott's tour of duty at the Tokyo Station.

1. Position held.

2. Responsibilities and duties.

3.. Identification of co-workers, Agency officers,

and superiors.

4. Circumstances leading to Wilcott's alleged dis-

covery of the Oswald connection with the CIA.

a..

Identification of persons alleging Oswald's

connection.

b. Oswald's alleged cryptonym.

c.

Possible cash disbursement procedures for

the Oswald project.

d.

wilcott's scenario of the events leading up

to and following President Kennedy's assas-

sination.

5. Finance office operations.

a. Filing methods and purposes.

b. Disbursement methods and purposes.

•NH 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 136

---

## Page 137

Lines of Inquiry - 2

D.

E.

Wilcott's Miami Station tour of duty.

1. General operations of the Miami Station.

2.. Wilcott's description of the Miami Station's

reaction to the allegation of an Oswald connection.

3.. The Bay of Pigs and anti-Castro connections.

Wilcott's disenchantment with and resignation from

the CIA.

1. Alleged incidents of CIA and FBI surveillance,

harassment and sabotage during the years 1967-

1970.

2.. Wilcott's article "The Kennedy Assassination".

NH 54756 DooId:32267344 Page 137

---

