# docid-32308245

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10294-10103

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-72630-93

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NIT 54460 Date:

40-03-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/27/1963

'PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS:

PDL, ACA, MIL, ASSOC, TRA, DC, MEETING, GOLDWATER,

BARRY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32308245

Page 1

---

## Page 2

44167e41016-2) •

DECODEDRCOPY

1, 136

Tolson

Belmont

Casper

Callaha

'Evans

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter:

ele. Roo

Holmes

misi

Radio

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

* Teletype

ALL IRFORMAZICN CONTAINED

HEREIN

Stir 12o

RELEASE OF GIA INFORMATION EXOLAT

IN IHIS DOCUMENT

OTASRMS

19-29-97

URGENT

3-27-63

10:39 PM

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC WASHINGTON FIELD

FROM SAC MIAMI

280120

815-92 ( JFK)

PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ, INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA:

MIAMI 635 -S

HIS BOTHES SOAKE AUV SOCIATE SITE ENS: NE

INFORMANT WAS AT MIAMI RESIDENCE OF PEDRO. WHEN HE DEPARTED

MIAMI IN HIS CORVETTE DESTINED FOR WASHINGTON, D.C., UPON

INVITATION OF SENATOR BARRY GOLDWATER, WITH WHOM HE STATED

HE HAS APPOINTMENT TOMORROW AFTERNOON.

PEDRO

PEDRO INDICATED HE

WOULD DRIVE ALL NIGHT. HE IS TAKING AN ASSORTMENT OF DOCUMENTS

AND MAPS RELATING TO CUBAN SITUATION. HE DID NOT DISCLOSE TO

INFORMANT THE EXACT NATURE OF HIS APPOINTMENT WITH GOLDWATER.

PEDROS BROTHER MARCUS REMINDED PEDRO TO GO SEE JOHN EDGAR HOOVER !

BUT HE DID NOT EXPLAIN FOR WHAT PURPOSE.

[THE DIAZ BROTHERS INDICATED THEY EXPECT. TO HAVE APPROVAL

OF CIA TO ENGAGE IN OPERATIONS AGAINST CUBA: AFTER: REDRO RETURNS

TO MIAMI PEDRO EXPECTS TO STAY IN WASHINGTON WITH RAPHAEL.. [FU)

INCLAN A CUBAN EXILE MEMBER OF FEDERATION OF UNIVERSITY STUDENTS

ADDRESS UNKNOWN TO INFORMANT. PEDROREONIECATED HE WOULD BE

WASHINGTON SEVERAL DAY SOU

105-73630

93

2 CC: WASHINGTON. FIELP:

NASCA

• ADUISE

4/28/69

COPIES DESTROYAD

32 FEB 14. 1973

$ 2 MAY 6 19637

9O MAY 1 1963

MR. BELMONT FOR THE DIRECTOR

105-72630 M

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 54460 DooId: 32308245

Page 2

---

