# docid-32404255

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10331-10126

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: PROJFILES - CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#: NW 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

HARRELSON. DCI/CSI/HRG/JFK PROJECT

: C/MAIL AND COURIER BRANCH

TITLE

DATE

: MEMO: COURIER SERVICE BETWEEN IP AND ARRE OFFICE

: 12/03/1996

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION

ARRB COURIER

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPEF

CLASSIFICATION : ADMINISTRATIVE

RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART

PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW: 04/23/03

COMMENTS: JFK-M-16 : F5

2000.02.09.07:52:26:043044

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10331-10126

HH 53217

DocId: 32404255

Page 1

---

## Page 2

...

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

3 December 1996

MEMQRANDUM FOR:

FROM:

VIA:

SUBJECT:

Earsaline Anderson

Chief, Mail and Courier Branch

J. Barry Harrelson, JFK Project

Officer

DCI/CSI/HRG

Lee Burton

Chief, DCI Administrative SVCS

Courier Service between IP and

ARRB Office

1. As a result of the move of the Center for the study of

Intelligence (CSI) to International Point Building in Chantilly,

Virginia, the Agency's JFK project is in immediate need of same

day courier service from International Point to the offices of

the Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB) at 600 E Street

N.W., Washington, DC. The JFK record review is a DCI priority.

2. Background: The ARRB is a Presidential-appointed board

reviewing CIA records related to the JFK assassination under the

JFK Act of 1992. The Board meets monthly and may act on up to

200-300 CIA documents.

The law sets specific deadlines for

notification of the DCI, appeals and release of reviewed records.

There is a continuing, but not necessarily daily, flow of

material between the CSI/Historical Review Group and the staff of

the ARRB to meet the requirements of the law .

This material

inclades time sensitive memoranda for the DCI and documents that

frequently must be delivered the same day. In the past, the

staffs (HRG and ARRB) have hand-carried the material when using

the FAX was not satisfactory or appropriate.

With the move to

IP, it is no longer possible to have staffers hand-carry material

on a regular basis.

3. Requirements:

Same-day Delivery to 600 E. St. NW: Generally HRG

will know at least the day before that delivery is needed,

however, there are times when same-day service to and from 600 E

Street

will be requested.

For most outgoing material, HRG will

use the regular morning courier service between IP and HQs

provided that priority packages are delivered to the ARRB that

afternoon. Non-priority material can be delivered the following

day.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

NW 53217 DooId:32404255

Page 2

---

## Page 3

...

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Courier Service between IP and ARRB Office

b.

Same-Day Pick-up at 600 E St. NW: Some material

picked up at ARRB can be held overnight at He and come with the

regular morning courier to IP; however, many documents require

immediate action and will need to be delivered directly to IP.

c.

Packages will range from a single memorandum to

documents in two or three record center size boxes.

d. HRG will usually have green badge independent

contractors at ARRB to receive material, however, ARRB stafi

workina on CIA records are fullv cleared and can sion for the

material.

The courier will be given a list of persons authorized

to receive the material.

4.

implement to fill this requirement.

2

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

HH 53217

DooId: 32404255

Page 3

---

