# docid-32337896

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kemedy Assassination Records Collection Act or 1992 147 05C 2107 hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/17/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90139-10023

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 109-12-228-638

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

MM

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/04/1962

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

VENEZUELAN POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified.

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

V9.1

DocId: 32337896

17

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FBI

Date:

5/4/62

CIA MAS NO PIECTION TO

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL i,

D/OR;

Hal:

• URMATION

IN THIS DODULENT. KP 11-14-97

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

SLD/KSR

12-75-97

Tri)

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

for

action

1 Copy toc

by routing

L info

NCLOSU

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-1729) (P) 70 566854015)

RE:

VENEZUELAN

POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

MATTERS

(CREATION OF NEW POLITICAL GROUP

OF

PROFESSIONAL AND BUSINESS MEN IN VENEZUELA)

1.23

Classifie

toy 9803ADphetp

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

CADA

HEREIM IS ASSIFIED EXCEPT

21/32

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Re MMlet to Bureau, 4/16/62, captioned:

COMMUNIST PARTYCOF VENEZUELA - IS VENEZUELA, Bufile

64-200-228.

Transmitted herewith are eleven copies of

a letterhead memorandum, dated and captioned as

above;

MM I-1 Is former HAV-4, resident of Venezuela,

President of Pan American Protective Association.

Bureau is famillar with the (u)

history, reliability and

loyalty of this informant.

He had set up a branch company of his

Detective and Armored Car Service in Venezuela in

1959, prior to the fall of BATIStA in Cuba. He made bed i

Bureau (Encl. - 11) . (AM • RM)v

REC-

New York (Enql. - 1) (info)

(AM. 14 RM)

10% 2P

1

- San Juan (Encl. -

1) (info)

(AM - RM)

109-12-228

3

- Miami (2 - 105-1729)

134-4531

to

CiA.w/enc.

ELS/ems

(10)

711- State-Went.

22,.

25 MAY. 1962

§T1+/62

2-MM

JWLiamS

INDiana

Approved:

Sent

Per.

63g

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32337896 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Feleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 U5C 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017.

MM 105-1729

monthly trips from Cuba to Venezuela in 1959 and fled

Cuba in about April, 1960, when CASTRO sought his arrest.

He came to the United States just in time to

join the invasive forces in March, 1961, but the

attempted invasion of Cuba failed before his boat

arrived at the Bay of the Pigs, Cuba. He then returned

to Venezuela, and stated that with or without pay,

would help

the FBI whenever and wherever possible!

The enclosed memorandum is classified

"CONFIDENTIAL"' as its contents have not been released

to anyone up to this point, and in order not to jeo-

pardize sources of continuing value. (Ul)

Former HAV-4 told his Venezuelan business

associates and friends that the FBI has no jurisdiction

in Venezuela, whereas CIA does. However, the group

declared they have no confidence in CIA, and will not

deal with them or the United States Embassy because of

lack of confidence. f(4)

The group wants to send one or two men to

Miami, for instructions on how to combat Communism

effectively. HAV-4 was told we could give no help

on this problem. He stated he had thought as much,

and if we were unable to actually instruct, one or

two top men of the organization would like

to simply

know that they would be welcome in the Miami Office

n a short visit to furnish data and discuss problem

f mutual interest. ul

HAV-4 was told by Supervisor HOWARD R.

ALBAUGH and SA EDWIN L. SWEET that the Bureau would

welcome a visit to the Miami Office of any Venezuelan

• 2.

CANADENTL

DocId: 32337896 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mue).

DATE: 11-14-2017.

MM 105-1729

officers, or knowledgeable Venezuelan business men,

friends of former HAV-4, and would accept any informa-

tion they cared to offer; however, we could not request

that they make such a visit, or engage in any activities

on our behalf, nor could we give them any advice. (on U

HAV-4 stated he would not be one of the

visitors in the event anyone does come, as he has

to be careful not to be classified as too much of a

"Yankee lover," of attempting to control or direct

the group's activities. He stated he only offered to

act on this one occasion as a go-between for the group,

and otherwise remains outside the group.

In this way,

he appears to the group

as Impartial, and so far, is

consunted by

all sides in this group whose ideas might

conflict.&vu

HAV-4 stated at first that the enclosed

material was not for dissemination to anyone outside

the Bureau.

He said, however, prior to departure from

surpau's good judgment in deciding what, l& any, portion

that he would

place no

restrictions on the

of this data should be disseminated.

He preferred that

none of it get back to Venezuela, and stated his entree

to the group, and general prestige in Venezuela will

be seriously impaired if members of the American Embassy

in Caracas, Venezuela begin to discuss this organization

with Venezuelans, as its very existence is a closely

guarded secret at this time.pg/u

Whether this unnamed organization

ever becomes

a real factor in the political life of Venezuela

Latin America remains to be seen, but at least it is

a

remarkably unique organization, and the Bureau has,

through the enclosed memorandum, a complete description

1238

DocId: 32337896 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Veleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-1729

of its structure, organization, and aims, which are

data not even available to the Venezuelan Government,

insofar as 18 known.UM (UL)

Former HAV-4 furnished the following names

of the leaders of the group, and stipulated before

revealing them that they are not for release outside

the Bureau:

1. EDUARDO ROLANDO • Comision de Fomento,

(a Government Committee to Develop

Economy

1..

2. LUIS ENRIQUE NUNEZ - Aceite Branca

(oils), Banco de la Republica, lawyer,

officer of these companies.

3.

CARLOS "RANGEL, Moderator, head of Press,

4.' Dr. FRANCISCO JOSE HERRERA LUQUE, psychia-

clast, Central University of Venezuela.

5. GEORGE/NALDONADO B.,

•, former" U.S. citizen;

Director, First National City Bank.

The group is organizing in Peru, Ecuador, and

Nicaragua

at this time.

The Cuban delegation, very

small, is represented by LEON/MIR, CARLOS MA

BARRETO,

and DE. ROBERTO VILLA GO (U)

As the Bureau is aware, former HAV-4 is a

long time personal friend of Legal Attache CLARK D.

ANDERSON. He suggested it would be feasible to meet,

on a very discreet basis, a representative from the

Legal Attache's Office, Mexico City, in Venezuela, and

furnish him data, or place him in contact with any

leader of the group he might desire to meet personally.

HAV 4 was told this suggestion would also be submitted

to the Bureau for consideration fo u

0(4)

DocId:32337896

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 210X

Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-1729

Former HAV-4 visited SA EDWIN L. SWEET on

Easter Sunday, April 22, 23, and on April

24, 1962,

he met with SAS JOHN R. BARRON and EDWIN L. SWEET.

He paid a brief visit to the Miami Office, where he

met SAC WESLEY G. GRAPP, and discussed Venezuelan

matters with Supervisor HOWARD R. ALBAUGH.

returned to Venezuela on April 23, 1962.600/U)

Translations from the Spanish were made

by Miami Translator ELEANORE M. SCHOENBERGER.

DoCId: 32337896

Page

---

