# docid-32328631

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90076-10146

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-430-2267

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-03-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BAUMGARDNER

TO:

BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/29/1959

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

07/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

19.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32328631

10

Page '1

---

## Page 2

0.64

Office Mers

ndum

UNITED

GOVERNMENT

TO

: Mr. A. H. Belmont

DATE: April 29, 1959

Tolson

FROM

: Mr. F. Jo Baumgardner 4e

1 - Mr. Belmont

Belmont

Mohr.

1 = MIo

Baumgardne Nease

1 - Mr. Simpson

Parsons

Rosen

• Tamm

SUBJECT:

CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS.

ET AL.

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

REGISTRATION ACT

ALL INFORMATION CONTAMI

Trotter

HEREIN ES CACLASSIFIA

W.C. Sullivan -

Tele. Room .

DATE 2/25/95 9Y SO&

fallivan

Holloman -

Gandy --

Boarde

Reference is made to my memorandum dated 4-21-59 concerning the

*report of sA George

Allegation that Cuben Daforce (CAF) was in possession of Photostat of

of Miami Office containing signed

statements furnished by Daniel Vazquez.

Miami airtel 4-28-59 advised that, MM 635-S accompanied bý

Major Marcos Diaz tanz and Captain Alfredo Guerra of CAr had returnec

to Miami 4-26-59 after accompanying Fidel Castro in the United States

prior to Castro's departure for Canada.

While rooming with Guerra for

several days, MM 635-5 observed two copies of signed statements totaling

about 3u pages which had been given to SAs Robert James Dwyer and

in Miami.

These statements were kept in Guerrals

brief case.

George E. darine statement appeared to be possibly a carbon copy of the

original and the other a typewritten copy:

however, they did not appear

Ito be in any type of report form of the FBI.

Guerra allegedly had these

statements with him on a recent visit to the Pentagon and may have

exhibited them to military representatives in Washington.

MM 635-S

attempted to secure these statements from Guerra during the several days

he and Guerra were in Miami together, but was unsuccessful. Informant

and Guerra departed for Cuba 4-27-59.

^ MM 635-S also advised that upon arrival in Cuba, Guerra will

succeed Captain Raul Cros as chief of Intelligence Section

he, the informant,

is being named assistant to Guerra.

can secure these statements and plans to bring them to the Miami Office

when he returns in four or five days if this can be done without detection.

OBSERVATIONS:

REC- 74

+ 109-430-22677

It appears very possible that the CAF has not actually obtained

a copy of

a FBI report but has secured copies of signed statements

furnished

the FBI by Vazquez

Since a copy of each statement was

furnished to Vazquez at his request, it is quite possible that CAF

has surreptitiously obtained these copies from Vazquez.

Vazquez has

109-430 RE: maros

See Bufileàla

1119209 DEX-113

50 MAY 5

1959

VV

HH

54460 DocId: 32328631

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

RE: CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS, ET AL.

the Statement entering in bat ase lent assistant to the chie secure

furnish extreme

intelligence, CAF; to furnish extremely valuable information to the

FBI in the future.

It is not believed that any action should be taken

at the present time which could possibly compromise MM 635-S.

ACTION:

This is for your information.

We are continuing to follow this

matter very closely to bring it to a logical conclusion as quickly as

possible.

anc

1/29

- 2

--

ANH 54460

DocId: 32328631

Page 3

---

