# docid-32556690

## Page 1

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

Cono

De Loach

Casper

DECODERLOPY

Callahan

Conrad

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan.

Tavel -

• AIRGRAM

Ô CABLEGRAM

Trotter

• RADIO

Xx TELETYPE

Tele. Room -

Holmes

Gand

9:48 PM CDST DEFERRED 10-6-65 HRF

The afte

TO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO 062029

GUS

ALEX, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

MEETING HELD EVENING OCTOBER 5 LAST AT MGM LOUNGE,

HOODLUM: HANGOUT, CICERO, ILLINOIS IN ATTENDANCE WERE CG 6884-PC,

GAMBLER FRANK AURELLI, GUS ALEX, AND NICK KOKENAS, OWNER MGM

LOUNGE.

PURPOSE OF MEETING TO RESOLVE PAYMENT OF OVERDUE GAMBLING

DEBTS TO FRANK AURELLI. ONE DEBT OF $4,000 OWED BY ONE (FNU)

SANTUCCI WHO IS UNABLE TO PAY AURELLI. SANTUCCI HAS BEEN

THREATENED BY AURELLI TO COME UP WITH MONEY OR ELSE. SANTUCCI

"REACHED OUT" TO ANGELO PETITI AND DONALD ANGELINI, WELL-

KNOWN HOODLUMS, TO INTERCEDE.

SECOND DEBT OF $1,500 OWED BY ONE AL GARBER WHO "REACHED

OUT" TO JOSEPH FERRIOLA, LIEUTENANT OF FIORE BUCCIERI.

FERRIOLA INSTRUCTED AURELLI TO FORGET ABOUT DEBT; HOWEVER,

AURELLI WENT TO DOMINIC SENESE, BROTHER-IN-LAW OF ANTHONY

ACCARDO, WHO SUGGESTED THIS MATTER BE ADJUDICATED BY HOODLUM

ATTORNEY JOSEPH BULGER. HOWEVER, AURELLI, THROUGH CLOSE

FRIENDSHIP WITH NICK KOKENAS, TOLD STORY TO GUS ALEX, WHO

STARTED MAKING PHONE CALLS. ALEX CALLED HOODLUM LEONARD

PATRICK AND JOSEPH BULGER AND SUBSEQUENTLY TOLD AURELLI LAST

NIGHT THAT EVERYTHING HAD BEEN TAKEN CARE OF AND THAT HE WOULD

REC: 68

92-3182-1100

110

12 OCT t:%_1965

OCT 14 1965

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NH 45679 DooId:32556690

Page 1

---

