# docid-32295291

## Page 1

Released under the doll F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (91 USC 2107

Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10215-10067

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6683-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SJ

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/24/1963

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

FCH, ALLEGATION, ASSOC, TEAMSTERS UNION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Redact

11/06/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DotId: 32295291

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released ünder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

NotS/s (ReD45l13-567-14-2017

-

Transmit the following in

Via AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

5/24/63

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL - REGISTEREB

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, SAN JUAN (92-135)

FRANK CHAVEZ, aka.

UNKNOWN VICTIMS

AR..

Re Bureau airtel to San Juan 5/0/63 and

Bureau airtel to San Juan 5/22/63.

No reply submitted to first airtel, Inasmuch as a PCI with

whom contact is desired for information concerning this matter,

has not returned from the United States.

Contact with Informants and other sources in a position

to have knowledge ofTeamsters Union, Local 901, activities and

hotel affairs in the Puerto Rico area, have been negative to date.

San Juan files contain nothing pertaining to the allegation that

CHAVEZ attempted to shake down the owners of four hotels.

It is noted that in March, 1962, JAMES R. HOFFA and EDWARD

MILLER, of the International Hotel and

Restaurant. Workers and

Bartenders Union of Cincinnati, Ohio, signed a mutual aid pact

applying to Local 901, Teamsters Union, San

Juan, Puerto Rico,

, San Juan, Puerto

Rico, wherein it was agreed

that Local 901 would desist from

further attempting to organize the hotel industry in Puerto Rico,

would turn over to Local 610 any hotel employees that were then

members of Local 901 in exchange for a Local 901 organizer,

LEOPOLDO RAMOS-DUCOS, being appointed as trustee,

which was placed

in effect

ein Subsequently, the Puerto Rican Senate Labor Committee

Cent REG 62

1 92-6683-4

- Bureau (REGISTERED)

- New York (137-9495)

PERSONAL ATTENTION: ASAC A. M. BRYANT (info) (RM)

1 - Sang Juan 1u

RLB/sgt

92=6683

3

(5)

3 MAY 29 1963

C

Appened:

67 JUN 4

DocId: 32295291

Sent

_ M

"Per".

-

Secial Agent in Charge

1963

Page 2

---

