# docid-32307313

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10292-10016

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-36

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HILL, RALPH R. JR.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/30/1959

22

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, THP, ASSOC, SUR, TEST, TRA, CRIMINAL ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId:32307313 Page 1

428

---

## Page 2

F1-14(0-12-00)

FEDERA

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

SAMUEL M. GIANCAlA, ala.

JREAU OF IN

TIGATION

017-30-54

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/7 - 6/22/59

REPORT MADE BY

RALPH R. HILL, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI- RACKETEERING

TYPED BY

min

Tratteres

REFERENCE:

Report oi SA RALTH R. HILL, Jr., dated 5/14/59, at

Chicago.

-P-

LEADS:

INDIANAPOLIS DIVISION

DATE 4/20/84

ON CONTAINED

FIED

SPSRja/suy

AF INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA

Will report information in Indianapolis files

concerning JOHN FORMOSA, alleged front for GIANCANA in the

M'sc J Motel, Gary, Indiana, a place of prostitution.

2.

Will report any information Indicating tie-up of

GIANCANA with ANTHONY PINELLI, Gary and Los Angeles hoodlum, as

testimony before tis Senate Seloet Committee indicated.

APPROVED

IN CHARS

2-Bureza (92-3171) K64712

-

- Detroit (Info)

- Indianapolis

- Los Angeles

- Miami

- New York (92-793)

- Salt Lake City (92-212)

1 - Springfield (Info)

2 - Chicago (92-349)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-3171-360

REG: 20

14.I0!

1659

STOYED

9 25 ma: 1 + 1972:

COVER FAGE

CRIM

PROPERTY OF FBI.—-This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are toge distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

62 JUL 9

1959

NW 45792 DocId: 32307313 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-349

SALT LAKE CITY DIVISION

AT LAS VEGAS, NEVADA

1.

Will attempt to ascertain incoming and

outgoing telephone numbers

received or called by subject

under the name of S. FLOOD at the Desert Inn Hotel in

March, 1959.

Will advise the Chicago Office if the names

PETER, ED,

CHARLIE and JANICE as a group have any particular

significance.

CHICAGO DIVISION

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

Will continue to follow and report the activities

of subject.

CLEVELAND, DETROII, AND SPRINGETELD DIVISIONS - INFORMATION

Information copies are being submitted for Detroit,

coverana ate trans American sure of com antuation reportod

INFORMANTS:

In addition to the informants utilized in this report,

the following informants are currently in a position to

furnish information regarding the subject:

i CG 6132-C

CG 5191-C

CG 6215-C

CG 6272-0

CG 6277-C

PCI

OTHER 4

-C-

COVER PAGE

NW 45792 DocId: 32307313 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-349

DAVID B. TROTT

Attorney at Law

1 North La Salle Street

Chicago

State 2-9891

MORRIS R. DE WOSKIN

Executive House

71 East.

Wacker Drive

Chicago

KATHY STEELE

20 East Delaware

Place

Janus Beer Sales

1901 West Cermak

Broadview, Illinois

BILL FACCHINI

MISCELLANEOUS

Attempt to Corner Bail Bond Business

On June 17, 1959, Chicago I-2 was interviewed at the

Criminal Court Building, 2600 South California, by SAs WILLIAM

F. ROEMER, Jr., and PAUL B. FRANKFURT.

Chicago I-2 stated he

did not know SAM GIANCANA

personally and would not know him if he saw him.

He states

he does know him by reputation.

He did not know who had given

his name to GIANCANA, but thought an explanation for it might.

be that at about 10:00 a.m. last Monday,

June 15, 1959, he was

stopped in the hall of the Criminal Court Building by MIKE

BRODKIN, attorney.

BRODKIN stated he understood that he was not

getting

with.

along too well with surety companies he writes bonds

He said there was a company coming into town which is out

of Indianapolis and that "MOONEY"

was interested in it and MOONEY

had given him his name.

He said BRODKIN had mentioned the name

of the bonding company he was interested in and said it sounded

like United Bonding Company or a name similar to it. The

- 12-

NW 45792 DocId: 32307313 Page 4

4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-349

informant related that he knew who "MOONEY" was and who

BRODKIN represents, and further that he, himself,

friendly business basis with PAI CERONE, IRV WEINER, and

ED MORRIS, who are some of the leading bondsmen in the city and

he is aware that PAT CERONE and IRV WEINER have connections with

the outfit. He thought because of his association with these

people his name might have been recommended as

a person to

bring in to represent the colored interests on the South Side.

Chicago T-2 said he told BRODKIN that he was getting along all

right with his present companies, but that he was always open

to a good proposition:

He said after his initial conversation with BRODKIN,

he called FRANK WRIGHT, President, United Bonding Company,

830 East 38th Street, Indianapolis, which company he represents

and with whom he is a close friend.

He said WRIGHT told him that

he had heard of the company which BRODKIN had mentioned to him

and said that the outfit was behind this company in Indianapolis

where a man named HADLEY was operating it, and that the company

was no good. He further stated that a hoodlum in Cleveland also

nas une agence the company

for this company there, but he did not know

his name.

Chicago I-2 stated he has given this matter considerable

thought and that knowing that the outfit controls certain judges

and that there are powerful people behind this operation, he

did not feel that he could flatly turn down the invitation. to

join up with this new company, especially when he knew who was

behind it.

He said that he had talked to RRODKIN yesterday

and had told him that he wanted to stay in business and did not

want any "moth" to grow on him and that he was leaving it up

to him to include him in the new company if he thought it was

a good thing to do. Ho felt,

therefore, that within the next

nonth or so he very well could be writing bonds for a company

that is apparently being backed by the outfit.

Chicago T-2 further remarked that since the bail bond

scandal broke, a new association of bondsmen has been formed with

the purpose of forming certain policies to be followed in the

future in an effort to eliminate chicanery on part of bondsmen

- 13 -

NW 45792 DocId: 32307313 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 92-349

as well as city officials.

Officers in this association

are IRV WEINER, President, ED MORRIS, Secretary, and TONY HORION

as Treasurer.

Chicago I-2 believes that since the outfit is behind

this new company they are attempting to freeze out a majority

of the other bondsmen and take over the bonding business in

other larger cities as well.

He said that if IRV WEINER, PAT

CERONE, ED MORRIS, and TONY HORTON were to associate themselves

with the new company, they could sew up ninety per cent of the

bonding business in Chicago. He further stated that if they had

a majority of the bonding business in five of the larger cities

they would be able to take $15,000 per week out of the business.

Chicago T-2 further inquired as to the present

status of ED and GEORGE JONES, former policy wheel operators

on the South Side, who are now in Mexico City, Mexico.

said he wondered about their present connections with the outfit

as he understands when anyone from the syndicate goes to Mexico

he finds out that generally they have visited with ED JONES

before they return. He further stated that the son of an

Italian hoodlum, whose name he cannot recall, had spent some time

with ED JONES in Mexico.

He also advised he had learned that

JONES has been to Switzerland on frequent occasions, but

does not know for what reason.

He commented that he is also

on friendly terms with ED JONES and knows his wife, and they have

been out together socially, and he speculated that if GIANCANA

had been to Mexico he possibly could have been in contact with

JONES, and JONES could have given his name to GIANCANA and

possibly have recommended him in this bail bond venture.

Chicago I-3 advised SAs RALPH R. HILL, Jr., and PAUL

B. FRANKFURT on June 23, 1959, that a new bonding company

The General

Their address is 108

East Washington Street, Indianapolis.

Until recently, this

sompany has engaged almost exclusively in automobile insurance.

but about a month or two ago;

the company applied to the United

States Treasury Department for a Federal Qualification to write

bonds in Federal Courts.

The United Public Company, was formed

- 14 -

NW 45792 DocId: 32307313 Page 6

4

---

## Page 7

CG 92-349

INFORMANTS

Chicago I-1

Chicago T-2

OTHER 4

Chicago T-3

SANDY SMITH,

"Chicago Tribune" reporter,

Column 2, contacted by SA

RALPH R. HILL, Jr.

PCI,

Contacted by. SA

PAUL B.

FRANKFURI, June 17, 1959.

President,

United Bonding Insurance

Company, Indianapolis

(Requested).

Contacted by SAs HILL and

FRANKFURT, June 23, 1959.

- 16 -

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

NW 45792 DocId: 32307313 Page 7

---

