# docid-32312234

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10322-10007

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 100-3-104-34-915

Released under the John

*. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of

1992

(44 USC 2107 Note! .

Lased.0N 53130 Date:

05-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

NY

HQ

DATE:

'PAGES:

• SUBJECTS :

10/15/1964

7

COINTELPRO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS : 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9:1

HH 53130

DocId: 32312234

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1982 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

13010-107

UNITED STATES GC

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECIOR, FBI. (100-3-104-34) DATE: 10/15/64

CLASS FED BY 5668 SLO/GUL

SAC,

NEW. YOPK (100-129802)

EY ON: 20X

(6)

SUBJECT:

In s

ReNYlet, 9/15/64.

1. CURRENT COUNTERINTELLIGENCH

ACTIVITIES

& PROGRESSIVE LABOR MOVEMENT (PLM)

Sures

By airtel dated 8/21/64, the Bureau set out.

certain suggestions concerning our investigation of

the PLM.

PLM literature has been sent to Memphis,

and Oklahoma City per these instructions, and the New

York Office has conducted background investigation of

the parents of SUSAN KARP, a young PLM leader, with the

thought of interviewing the parents in an effort to

develop SUSAN as an informant.

The New York Office has

decided not to try to contact SUSAN through her parent,

but will seek authority to make a direct intervie.

ARTOONS AND CARICATURES

By letter dated 9/22/64, the New York Office

submitted a rough draft of a cartoon which ridicules

the Communists for the diversity of opinion they have

recently displayed in their approach to the international 34

conference scheduled for 12/15/64.

MARKXLANE A

ROPRIATE A

• OFFICES

COMMUNIST PARTY UNITED STATES OF AMERIC

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

IS - C

(00: NEW YORK)

6

The New York office has genewed its request

to send an anonymous letter to the New York Bar Associa

DIVO

tien which will point out MARK LANE', moral degeneracy

18120.133

SECRET REC 12

0800-3-104-34-915

New Yasskied by 755 311-5

• ост 964

KRB: amf

(4)

Exempt from GDS, Category

Date of Declassification Indetinite

144 T1m

1964

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

64 NOV 2

NW 53130 DooId: 32312234

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

NY 100-129802

transfer to Detroit. KRANSDORF's replacement isnnot

yet known, but if the replacement comes from New

York, the New

York Office will recommend appropriate

counterintelligence action to the Bureau.

3. ANONYMOUS MAILINGS

None.

4. TANGIBLE RESULTS

WILLIAM ALBERTSON

Communist Party's investigation of the

ALBERTSON expulsion continues.

It was recently

learned that the Soviets informed DANNY. RUBIN during

his recent trip to the soviet Union that the docu-

ment which prompted te theected expulsion was a

forgery.

This information has greatly uoset GUS

HAILL.

HALL feels the Nassau County CP group is

under FBI control. The CP probably does not know

exactly how to proceed at this point.

but it is not

likely they will readmit ALBERTSON. C

"I' UNITA"

mant to the communist nevepaper cute in disti

NY (2124S has been

Recently NY

with the Bureau's permission, he withheld mail received

Rome which would have been used in their next

publication.

This delayed the publication date of

the next issue.

Also NYS212US called a meeting of :

the staff of "L'Unita"

at a time that he did not

think Co-Editor NINO SIRACUSA would come.

SIRACUSA

did not come.

As a resu.

improve his own image. (

, Ny 221276) was able to

5. INFORMANT PARTICIAPTION IN THE

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

NY 394-5, 1711780 and 12)

-SECRET

are the

_4.

355-10001

NW 53130 DooId: 32312234

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SPCRET

NY 100-129802

informants designated to participate in the counter-

intelligence program.

outlined above.

opportunity to participate in the program.

Considera-

tion is being given to making a change in the infor-

mants assigned to this program.

6. COUNTERINTELLIGENCE RE

SOVIET SATEELITE INTELLIGENCE

VACB, future monthly summary letters

prepared by the New York Office will contain this

heading.

FUFISHING OF ERRONEOUS INFORMATION

TO SOVIET INTELLIGENCE

contact with

Czecholovak intelligenc

czechoslovak UN Missions NY [2831s could logicalls

have access to centain information

concerning the

United States Space Program.

By letter dated 9/30/64,

the New York Office suggested the Bureau contact

other agencies to explore the feasibility of supply-

this information to the soviets.

If this effort is

successful, we could conceivably influence the Soviet

space Program to some extent, or eventually cause the.

Soviets to lose confidence in

thebCzechoslovakian

Intelligence Services) Also My 28315) nIczechsle"

1 be able to

obtain considerable more money

exchange for such information.(&

Bureau has

advised that this matter will be

discussed with officials of appropriate agencies at

the Seat

of Government.

SECRETI

- 5 -

355110503

HH 53130 DooId: 32312234 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

NY

100-129802

York to provide all copies of communications sent

ten years.

those communications that were available.

The

Bureau plans to send

a letter that is ostensibly

from the Italian CP to the CP, USA

charging a

somewhat

anti-soviet line in regard to the coming

international Communist conference.

AMERICAN COMMITTEE FOR A TRUE

MARXIST-LENINIST COMMUNIST PARTY

The rent for Post office

Box 769 at Grand

Central Station was paid for the period 10/1/64,

through

12/31/64.

is the post

pIfice box

held in the name

of the ACTMLCP

SECREN,

- 7-

355.10009

HW 53130

DocId: 32312234

Page 5

---

