# docid-32301907

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

(14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10279-10242

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 63-488-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

01/13/1954

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

NRO, ASSOC, TEEMER, CHARLES F., TOP HOODLUM,

GAMBLING ACT, IDENT RECORDS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT, PHOTO

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC ENV

v9.1

DocId: 32301907

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

STANONTO POROM NO, CA

80--

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATB: January 13, 1954

130м

: SAC,

TSBURGH (62-2114

SUBJECT:

CHARLES F

TEEMER, wa.

Chuck Téenter

GIIF (TOP HOODLUM COVERAGE)

Ro SAC Letter No. 53-58.

fire ISs

opreriafo-1

vera

nepr

!

1: 1/7: 217

7:

-A2307,432

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

NEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED *24,526

BATE /13/85

A revlow of the references in this office pertaining

to captioned individual would indicate that subjoot would

be considred under the Top Hoodlum Coverage Program.

Since it has been determined that TEEMER is now residing

in the territory covered by the Miami Offico the

Information available In this office is being furnished

the Miami Office with the view of having the latter office

Include the subjeat in the Top Hoodlum Coverage Program

in the Miami Office.

Although background information pertaining to captioned

Individual 1s limited In this office, it does appear that

TEEMER 1s originally from Texas and came to Western

Pennsylvania

approximately ten years ago. According to

Corporal JOHN BRICKLEMYER, Pennsylvania State Police,

Greensburg, Pennsylvania,

TEEMER 1s an extensive gambler

and his criminal history reflects that on July 31, 1932,

THEMER was arrested for robbery at Greensburg,

Pennsylvania, but all subsequent arrests have

been for

gambling.

Detective

WILLIAM JOHNSTON, in charge of the Criminal Squad,

Pennsylvania State Police,

Greensburg, Pennsylvania, advised

that it was his understanding that TEEMER had been active

In lube, but was subsequently bought out by the SAM

MANNERINO Gang of New Kensington, Pennsylvanla.

According

to Detective JOHNSTON, TEEMER 1s a very polished person

capable of adjusting himself to any surroundings and not

representing in his appearance,

speech

manners

any underworld character.

At one time TERMER was arrested of connected with the City

club, Stewartsville, Irwin, Pennsylvania,

(now the Colonial

Manor Inn).

The city Club

was one of the largest gambling

operationg in Western Pennsylvania

was raided In

September, 1946. At the time of th

EF'S: EEC

SE 27

co - 2 - Miami (Encl.)

• ENCIOSURE

REGANDED-307

BY JAN

15 1954°:

INDEXÉD-38

102

CELLIAED

DocId: 32301907

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

RE: CHARLES F. TEEMER, WA.

GIIF ( TOP HOODLUM COVERAGE) •

that TEEMER made the remark that the City Club would not be

raided because a fix was in with the State Police.

At the

time TEEMER's remark came to the attention of Major WILLIAM

HOFFMAN, then Commanding Officer, Squadron 1, Pennsylvania

State Police, who, because of TEEMER's remark, became very

indignant and issued orders to raid and close

the City Club.

A review of the references in this office revealed that:

according to the GIIF for April 15, 1947,

there was a rumor

to the effect that TEEMER had contributed $33,000 to the

political campaign of Ex-Governor JAMESH. DUFF in 1940.

Inquiries at that time by Sheriff WALTER MONAGHAN disclosed that

runor had been started by an individual known

as GREENFIELD

JIMMY SMITH, a partner of TEEMER, who became antagonistic.

toward TenER.

The GIIF for the

same period reflected information

to the effect

that the City Club In Greensburg was to be

remodeled and opened as a high class house of prostitution.

The real backer of this establishment was reported to be TEEMER

of McKeesport, Pennsylvanise who came to the Pittsburgh,

Pennsylvania area from Texas with alot of money and reported to

be a heavy operator. During the same period Sheriff MONAGHAN

furnished information to the effect that $5,000 each was

contributed to CHARLES MC BRIDE, a colored businessman, who was

Ward Chairmen of the Thirty-First Ward In Pittsburgh by CHUCK TEEMER,

RALPH "BOOTS ARCADIA, HYMIESTARRIS. JACKYNC TENNIE and GREENFIELD

JIMMY XSMITE®

In March, 1954,

the Legal Attache at Havana, Cuba, reported that

TEEMER was the Head of the American Group operating the Sans

Souci Club, a gambling establishment at Havana, Cuba. The club

was.

f American men.

ROCCO, BUFFONE, NICKICERONE, PATIERRA, MAURICHASIPCHICIZ. Or

IT CELTMAN,

ROZENDO TIMA, a Cuban,

GASTON IONZALEZ, another Cuban

and ELFINTO FERENADEZ,

a Cuban and former Chief of the Secret Polide,

who was a flose friend of President CARLOS PRIO•

According to the

Information developed, CHUCK TEEMER had the title of President

of the Cuban American

Corporation of. Sans Souc1.

In September, 1951, Criminal Informant PG-509-C reported that

-2-

DocId: 32301907 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USK 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TO:. DIRECTOR, FBI

RE:

CHARLES F.

ThEMER, wa.

GIIF ( TOP HOODLUM

COVERAGE.)

CHUCK THEMER had returned to the Pittsburgh area from the

Sans Souci Gambling Casino in Havana, Cuba. According to the

informant TEEMER was broke financially and further that there

had been a split between TEEMER and the MANNERINO Gang in New

Kensington, Pennsylvania. The Informant related that he

understood TEllER was going to Hollywood, florida, and subsequent

developed information revealed that THEMER did go to Hollywood,

Florida, and was residing at 1011 Tyler Street in said city

This informent also furnished information to the éffect that

TEEMER was particularly friendly with ARTARQONEY, President

of the Pittsburgh Steelers Football Team.

In January, 1953, PG-509-C related that the Bachelors! Club,

a notorious place of amusement in Pittsburgh, had been operated

at one time by CHUCK TEEMBR

CHARLES CONIHAN, Who was also

have supplied money, HYMEA

ARIN and the aforementioned

to pA

ROCCO BUFFONE.

BUFFONE was alleged to have purchased BILLY

CONNis, share in the Club. CONN, an ex-pugilist,

was alleged to have

become antagonistic with the other individuals running the club.

•It was later reported that CONN was attempting through his

friend, Mayor DAVID I. LAWRENCE, to have LAWRENCE close the club.

This informant advised that card

and dice games were run openly

at the Bachelors' Club..

On June 8, 1953, GABRIEL KELLYA

LANNERINO, leader of the aroreDA

men tioned

MANNERINO Gang, advised among other things that

CHUCK TEEMER and an individual known as

NICKy" had purchased

the United States Navgl Barracks at Fort Pierce, Florida, but

that both individuals had lost money on the transaction.

HYMIE MARTIN, a known racketeer and holder of extensive business

Interests in past years in the Pittsburgh area, advised agents

of this office that he was formerly a partner with CHUCK

TERMER in the operation of gambling enterprises in the

backroom of the Bachelors' Club in Pittsburgh. He related that

TEEMER has been in Hollywood, Florida, for the past several years.

It was MARTIN's understanding that TEEMER had been arrested

for book making within recent months at Miami Beach, Florida,

but that he had beaten the charge.

In this connection it is to be noted that the latest identification

-3-

DocId: 32301907 Page 4

---

