# docid-32292749

## Page 1

| Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10210-10025

RECORD SERIES: HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-9-1218

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, CG.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/07/1963

7

THP, MISUR, PDT, OC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

DocId: 32292749

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG '92-350

show

you the list.

Here's what I got last

time.

28

last

sergeants, $980 dollars, this is

time, I got $4,330.

MARCY:

That's last time.

CONLIN:

No but remember I beefed and you know and you

give me the money extra.

Remember?

said

I'm not gonna take thirty because they're

hollerin' like a (obs), recall that? Here's

what I got last time,

I marked it down myself.

I got $4,330 from you last time, look at this.

And there's two in the office, two assistants.

The above reference to "two assistants"' is believed

to be to Assistant States Attorneys, two of which are assigned

permanently to First District Headquarters.

The total of $4,330 which is furnished to police.

officials is believed to be that taken from strip joint

operators and any gambling operations that are operating within

the framework of the First District.

It is pointed out that

CG 6443-C has furnished information in the past to the effect

that strip joints donate $300 per month for police protection,

which amount coming from seven joints now in operation would

fall far short from the $4,330 total.

MARCY:

Yeah, I give you that.

CONLIN:

You only give me one?

MARCY:

I gave you two.

CONLIN:

MARCY:

No, no, I got the list right here.

Here it is, I give you one for a C note and

one for a quarter.

CONLIN:

MARCY:

CONLIN:

Yeah that's the assistant, there's two in there.

I only got one for last time.

Here's the list.

MARCY:

Here's my list.

the office.

I only took care of two guys in

- 2 =

DocId: 32292749 Page 2

---

