# docid-32989514

## Page 1

File #:

62-60-289

Serial Scope:

I thru 4

DO NOT

DESTROY

FOIPA# NJA

NW |SA3CC-Docta:32959534- Fage-

---

## Page 2

NRB74 WA CODE

10108888888888888888PM NITEL 5-2-75 MSE

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY 75

CAPTIONED MATTER PERIAINS TO BUREAU'S HANDLING OF REQUESIS

FROM SENATE AND HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEES TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL

OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT IO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES. IN CONNEC-

TION WITH WORK OF THESE COMMITTEES, STAFF MEMBERS MAY SEEK

TO INTERVIEW CURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES.

RECENTLY, THE SENATE SELECI COMMITTEE (SSC) STAFF HAS

INTERVIEWED SEVERAL FORMER EMPLOYEES AND IT IS ANTICIPATED

THAT MANY MORE SUCH PERSONNEL WILL BE CONTACTED.

THE FBI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE COMMITTEE

AND WE WISH TO ASSIST AND FACILITATE ANY INVESTIGATIONS UNDER-

TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE WITH RESPECT TO THE FBI. HOWEVER, WE

DO HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO

INSURE THAT SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS AND ONGOING SENSITIVE INVESTIGATIONS ARE FULLY

savitr

287-1

(o2-

SEARCHED...

SERIALIZED.

-ILED....

HAY & 1975

FBI - COLUMBIA

sport

chief

NW 54991 DOCId: 32989514

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

PROTECTED. SHOULD ANY FORMER EMPLOYEE CONTACT YOUR OFFICE AND

HAVE

ANY QUESTION REGARDING HIS OBLIGATION NOT TO DIVULGE INFOR-

MATION OBTAINED BY VIRTUE OF HIS PAST FBI EMPLOYMENT, HE SHOULD

BE INSTRUCTED TO CONTACT LEGAL COUNSEL, FBIHQ, BY COLLECT CALLO

YOUR CONVERSATIÓNS WITH FORMER EMPLOYEES MUST BE IN KEEPING WITH

OUR PLEDGE. IT IS BELIEVED SUCH A PROCEDURE WOULD INSURE PROPER

PROTECTION AND ALSO FACILITATE THE WORK OF THE SSCO

THE ABOVE PROCEDURE ALSO APPLIES TO CURRENT EMPLOYEES

OF YOUR OFFICE. HOWEVER, CONTACT WITH THE LEGAL COUNSEL SHOULD

BE HANDLED THROUGH THE SAC.

END

HOH FBI COLUMBIA

ACK FOR TWO TELETYPES

CO CLR

NW 54991 DocId: 32989514 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TO

:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

ALL EMPLOYEES

May 7, 1975

DATE:

OFFICE MEMO # 80, Series 1975

FROM

SUBJECT:

SENSTUDY 75

The following information has been received from the

Bureau:

"Captioned matter pertains to Bureau's handling of

requests from Senate and House Select Committees

to study

governmental operations with respect to intelligence activities.

In connection with work of these committees,

staff members may

seek to interview current and former FBI employees.

"Recently, the Senate Select Committee (SSC) staff has

interviewed several former employees and it is anticipated

that many more such

personnel will be contacted.

"The FBI has pledged full cooperation with the Committee

and we wish to assist and

facilitate any investigations under-

taken by the Committee with respect to the FBI.

However, we

do have an obligation to

and

methods and ongoing sensitive investigations are fully

protected. Should any former employee contact your office and

have any question regarding his obligation not to divulge intor-

he should

Your conversations with former employees must

be in keeping with

our pledge.

It is believed such a procedure would insure prope

protection

and also facilitate the work of the sSc."

As regards employees of our office

contacted

ASAC

should be advised and Legal Counsel FBIHQ will be contacted by

the SAC or ASAC.

- Each Employee

62-289

- 66-30

JJD: jac

62-289-2

Searched.

So lalizad

Filec.....

NIX

54881

DocId: 3298B44J•S Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

## Page 5

NRD36 WA CODE

PIU NITEL 5-2D-75 PAW

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECIOR (62-116395)

PERSONAL AT TOI

SENSTUDY - 75.

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

IN CONNECTION WITH WORK OF THE SENATE AND HOUSE SELECT

COMMITTEES, IIS REPRESENIATIVES.MAY CONTACI YOUR OFFICE FOR

INFORMATION.

INV ONE RECENT INSTANCE, A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SENATE

SELECT COMMITTEE TELEPHONICALLY INQUIRED AS TO IDENTITY OF SAC

IN A PARTICULAR OFFICE DURING 1970.

IN HANDLING SUCH INQUIRIES INSURE ESTABLISHING BONA FIDES

OF REPRESENTATIVE BY SHOW OF CREDENTIALS ON PERSONAL CONTACI OR,

IF TELEPHONIC CONTACT, BY TELEPHONING BACK TO COMMITTEE.

UNLESS INFORMATION IS OF A PUBLIC NATURE, AS IN THE INSIANCE

CITED ABOVE, OBTAIN FBIHQ CLEARANCE PRIOR TO SUPPLYING ANY

INFORMATION. FBIHQ MUST BE EXPEDITIOUSLY

ADVISED OF ALL

INFORMATION FURNISHED.

END

sanite

63-289-3

jee

CHAY cov 1975

NW 54991 DocId: 32989514 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NR036 WA CODE

PM NITEL 5-20-75 PAW

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY - 75.

REBUTEL® MAY 2, 1975=

IN CONNECTION WITH WORK OF THE SENATE AND HOUSE SELECT

COMMITTEES, IIS REPRESENTATIVES MAY CONTACT YOUR OFFICE FOR

' INFORMATION.

IN ONE RECENT INSTANCE, A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SENATE

SELECT COMMITTEE TELEPHONICALLY INQUIRED AS TO IDENTITY OF SAC

IN A PARTICULAR OFFICE DURING 1970.

IN HANDLING SUCH INQUIRIES INSURE ESTABLISHING BONA FIDES

OF REPRESENTATIVE BY SHOW OF CREDENTIALS ON PERSONAL CONTACI OR,

IF TELEPHONIC CONTACT, BY TELEPHONING BACK TO COMMITTEE.

UNLESS INFORMATION IS OF A PUBLIC NATURE, AS IN THE INSTANCE

CITED ABOVE, OBTAIN FBIHQ CLEARANCE PRIOR TO SUPPLYING ANY

INFORMATION. FBIHQ MUSI BE EXPEDITIOUSLY ADVISED OF ALL

INFORMATION FURNISHED.

END

62-289-3

SEARCHED...

SERIAL A A

MAY 4 0 1975

FEI - COLUIASIA

Tayl

NW 54991 DoeId: 32989514 Page 6

---

## Page 7

inte

NRO33 WA CODE

4:42 PM 9/4/75 NITEL AJN

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECIOR

(62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY 75

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

PURPOSES OF INSTANT TELETYPE ARE TO (1) REITERATE THAT

FBI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE (SSC) 'AND WISHES TO ASSIST AND FACILITATE ANY

INVESTIGATIONS UNDERTAKEN BY THE SSC WITH RESPECT TO THE FBI;

AND (2) SET FORTH NEW PROCEDURE RELATING TO SSC STAFF

INTERVIEWS OF CURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES.

FOR INFORMATION OF THOSE OFFICES WHICH HAVE NOT PREVIOUSLY

HAD CURRENT OR FORMER EMPLOYEES IN ITS TERRITOY INTERVIEWED

BY THE SSC, THE BUREAU FREQUENTLY LEARNS FROM THE SSC OR

OTHERWISE THAT FORMER EMPLOYEES ARE BEING CONSIDERED FOR

INTERVIEW BY THE SSC STAFF. • INSTRUCTIONS ARE ISSUED FOR THE

FIELD OFFICE TO CONTACT THE FORMER EMPLOYEE TO ALERT HIM AS TO

POSSIBLE INTERVIEW, REMIND HIM OF HIS CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT

WITH THE BUREAU AND SUGGEST THAT IF HE IS CONTACTED FOR

SAci (405162-289-4

SAVITIE

Fil a Luil

LEE

NW 54991 DocId: 32989514 Page 7

---

## Page 8

PAGE TWO

INTERVIEW, HE MAY CONTACT THE LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION BY

COLLECT CALL FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. IN THE USUAL CASE,

AS CIRCUMSTANGES UNFOLD, THE FORMER EMPLOYEE IS TOLD(1)

THAT HE HAS A RIGHT TO LEGAL COUNSEL, BUT THAT THE BUREAU

CANNOT. PROVIDE SAME; (2) THAT THE BUREAU HAS WAIVED THE

CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT FOR THE INTERVIEW WITHIN SPECIFIED

PARAMETERS; AND (3) THAT THERE ARE FOUR PRIVILEGED AREAS IN

WHICH HE IS NOT REQUIRED TO ANSWER QUESTION. THESE AREAS

ARE RELATING TO INFORMATION WHICH MAY (A) IDENTIFY BUREAU

SOURCES, (B) REVEAL SENSITIVE METHODS/ TECHNIQUES; (C) REVEAL

IDENTITIES OF THIRD AGENCIES, INCLUDING FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE

AGENCIES, OR INFORMATION FROM SUCH AGENCIES; AND (D) ADVERSELY

AFFECT ONGOING BUREAU INVESTIGATIONS.

HERETOFORE, BUREAU HAS OFFERED INTERVIEWEES CONSULTATION

PRIVILEGES WHEREBY A BUREAU SUPERVISOR WOULD BE AVAILABLE

NEARBY, ALTHOUGH NOT ACTUALLY AT INTERVIEW, SO INTERVIEWEE

MIGHT CONSULT WITH HIM SHOULD QUESTIONU ARISE AS TO PARAMETERS

OF INTERVIEW OR PRIVILEGED AREAS. THE CONSULTANT DID NOT ACT

AS A LEGAL ADVISOR.

EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY, BUREAU WILL NO LONGER PROVIDE

N 54991 Doold: 30989514

Page 8

---

## Page 9

PAGE THREE

ON-THE-SCENE PERSONNEL FOR CONSULTATION PURPOSES TO ASSIST

EITHER CURRENT OF FORMER EMPLOYEES. PROSPECTIVE INTERVIEWEES

SHOULD BE TOLD THAI, IF THEY DESIRE ASSISTANCE OF THIS NATURE

DURING AN INTERVIEW, THEY MAY CONTACT EITHER PERSONALLY (IF

INTERVIEW IS IN WASHINGION, D. C.) OR BY, COLLECT CALL, THE

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, MR. W. R.

WANNALL, OR, IN HIS ABSENCE, SECTION CHIEF W. O. CREGAR®

THIS CHANGE IN PROCEDURE SHOULD NOT BE CONSTRUED AS

LESSEMING THE ASSISTANCE WE ARE FURNISHING TO CURRENT AND

FORMER EMPLOYEES.

FOR YOUR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, I AM WORKING WITH THE

DEPARTMENT IN EXPLORING AVENUES TO ARRANGE LEGAL REPRESENTATION,

WHEN NECESSARY, FOR CURRENT AND FORMER EMPLOYEES WITHOUT

EXPENSE TO THEM. YOU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED OF DEVELOPMENIS

DN THIS REGARD.

END

FBI CO CLR RAA

NW 54991 DocId: 32989514 Page 9

---

