# docid-32288846

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10200-10122

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-9-1426

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/06/1963

3

CIP, INTV, PONZIO, ALEX BEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1.

DocId: 32288846

16

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-108-03

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 21

INITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

12/6/63

FROM

SUBJECT:

CRIMINAL

INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

INTERVIEW PROGRAM

CHICAGO DIVISION

During the month of November, 1963, the following

Chicago hoodlums were interviewed by agents of the Chicago

Division:

TONY PEROTTI, lieutenant of WILLIAM DADDANO and

owner of Mr. I's, Mundelein, Illinois, was interviewed

on November 6, 1963.

He exhibited a friendly attitude

and admitted spending ten years in the Syndicate. He claimed

he has been out of touch for the past two years.

He

declined to furnish any information coming to his attention

during the time he was associated with the outfit.

On November 8, 1963, AMERICO DE PIETTO, well-known

Chicago hoodlum who was recently arrested on a narcotics

charge, was interviewed.

Information had been received

that he was going to be

"hit" and when informed of this

he said, "Well,-you can't live for ever." He had nothing of

value to say and

that he had not been doing anything and,

therefore, there was no reason why anyone would want to

kill him.

On November 18, 1963, ALEX BEN PONZIO, owner of

Parking, was interviewed.

He is the son-in-law of

PAUL "The Waiter" DE LUCIA, well-known Chicago hoodlum.

PONZIO was courteous but firm in declining to furnish any

information.

Information previously received that PONZIO

might be susceptible to an interview at this time.

2

Bureau

- Chicago

1 - 137-4143

TEC 1J

LIAE

CREG 45

& Sri VM st3

PBF : plb

(4)

6229=1924

9-1963

Melive

LBI

58DEC12196

So wi

DocId: 32288846

Page 2

---

