# docid-32304488

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10286-10118

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 26-156637-27, 28, 29

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

STUDEBAKER, GENE H.

TO :: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 09/02/1953

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

TED, PHOTO, IDENT, P/P, HDW, PEP, EMP, ASSOC AND REL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC 3 ADMIN PAGES, 2 RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32304488

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PG 26-9733

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

INFORMANT'S

T-1 19 NILLIAN I. CRISTIAN, PCI at Bluefield, West Virginia.

I-2 1s JACK D. KIDD, PCI at Bluefield, West Virginia.

LEADS

THE ATLANTA DIVISION - Information

One copy of this report is being furnished to the Atlanta Division in view of

the fact that THOMAS E. DAVIS is incarcerated at the U.S. Penitentiary at

Atlanta, and request will be made to reinterview him.

THE DETROIT DIVISION

AT WYANDOTTE, MICHIGAN

Will display the photograph of THOMAS E. DAVIS to Officer HENRY

PRZEDWORSKI to determine whether DAVIS is identical with the ROBERT C. HARRISON

Involved in Instant wreck.

Will determine location of BENJAMIN W. DAVIS, formerly of 149 Ford

thereafter interview him regarding his knowledge of the activities of suspect

in Bluefield, West Virginia, February 3, 1952.

AT DEARBORN, MICHIGAN

Will display the photograph of DAVIS to ROBERT VAN RANSI, 3539 Hipp

Street, to determine whether DAVIS is identical with the person who claimed to

be ROBERT C. HARRISOI.

'AT ECOPSE, MICHIGAN

Will displry the photograch of DAVIS to L. E. PATTON, General Mansger,

Evans Motor Sales, ald other persons at the motor sales, who may have seen DAVIS

to determine whether he is the individual who claimed to be THOMAS E. DAVIS or

ROBERT C. HAPPISON.

AT DETROIT: MICHIGAN

W111 furnish the Atlanta Office results of requested investigation, and

for Atlanta to reinterview THOMAS E. DAVIS, U.S. Penitentiary, Atlanta, Ga.

DocId: 32304488 Page 2

---

