# docid-32330803

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90093-10009

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-9-33-592

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/25/1966

3

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

NOFIO PECORA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: • INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32330803

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 USC 2T

DAD56 COV1-22647

Hote).

FBI

Date: 3/25/66

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

Mr. Tolson.

Mr.

Detoach.

M2.

Michr

Mr.

Wick

Nir.

Ossper.

Mr.

Gailshan

Mr.

Convade

Mr. Felt.

Mr.

Gale

Mr.

Rose

Mr.

Sull

Mr.

Parol

Nir. Trotter

Tele. Room.-

Miss_ Homes

Miss Gandy

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-33)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (92-50)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

mas nada of Cover

LA COSA NOSTRA

NO FILE: 92-365

For 56-6-28 equestol

(See Bu&110 #62-117290) |

NO 1390-PC advised that an Italian criminal setup

exists in the New Orleans area but that he has not heard of

this organization referred to as the La Cosa Nostra (LCN).

Informant stated that this group is not well organized and that

to his knowledge it does not hold any regular meetings nor has

any formal initiation ever been held to take in new mempers.

NO 1390-PC identified VINCENT. JAMES"

leader of this group and stated CARLOS MARCELLO is definitely

an underling of CAMPO.

Informant stated that NOFIO PECORA,

SALADINO

into this organization, informant stated that about 1938,

CAMPO placed his arms

around him and told him, "he was his

boy".

Informant advised that he knew what this mark of

affection meant, indicating that he was accepted as one of

CAMPO's group.

NO 1390-PC stated on at least three different

occasions he bad been given instructions by CAMPO or MARCELLO

to deliver messages to individuals in the Italian group.

Bureau

Ran

New Orleans

MAK : mnw

(5)

Get to No

3-30-66

1 2 REC- 20

310

62=9-33=597

MAR 38 1906

Sent

_M

Per

Approved:

APR

DocId: 32330803 Page 2

Spedfal Agent in Charge

---

## Page 3

Réleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO

92-50

MAK: mnw : jmp

In one instance, a CHARLES

GENARD was "ordered to refrain from

robbing local bookmakers, as too much heat

was being placed

on the Italians. On two occasions, MARCELLO ordered the

informant to instruct two local gambers to pay a

gambling debt which they had previously refused to pay and

upon receipt of

this command, the debt was paid.

WILLIAM NETTERVILLE LA

ITSP

7

1

LV238-PC, who was in New Orleans on 3/21/66, advised

that NETTERVILLE had been approached by ROBERTRANDERSON, former

SecretaryOfthe Treasure, whose offices are currently

at the Number 1 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City, concerning

a proposition relative to purchase of gold.: NETTERVILLE,

according to the informant, advised him that various gold

mining companies in the United States have been siphoning

off gold which had been mined and only reporting a certain

portion of the gold actually recovered from the earth.

This gold has allegedly come under the control of several

unknown individuals throughout the country. According to

the informant, NETTERVILLE stated that a

attorney for any

principal who

has some of this gold allegedly can meet with

an attorney in Washington, D.C. who is associated with the

former law firm of U.S. Supreme Court Justice ABE FORTAS.

The attorney, after due consultation with the Washington

attorney and

satisfied that his client will be protected

will then divulge the identity

of his principal and

according to the informant, a letter will be received from

the White House within 24 hours which waives

the Certificate

of Origin on the gold and grants immunity to the principal

and all others connected with the gold transaction. This

gold is sold back to the U.S. Government for $28 an ounce

with a 2 per cent commission to the agent, and at the time

of the transaction, 10 per cent of the price is retained for

income tax purposes.

GENERAL CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION

V 238-PC advised that he received the followin

information in strictest confidence from HOWARD HUGHES, well

- 2 -

Calif

56ol6

37

DocId: 32330803 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO 92-50

MAK : mnw

known financier, and under no circumstances should this

information be revealed outside the Bureau.

HUGHES allegedly advised the informant that major

MeXICO throughout the State of Louisiana.

Because of this dissatisfaction

on the part of these major businesses, HUGHES allegedly told

the informant that the security resources of several of these

companies have banded together during the past several months If

and conducted extensive investigations concerning leading

political figures and industrialists. Specifically mentioned

were Governor JOHN J. MC KEITHEN, Mayor VICTOR

WILSON ABRAHAM, Baton Rouge contractor. Informant

stated that

he was

told that these investigations resulted in Governor

MC KEITHEN's being observed and photographed entering a bank

in Mexico City with an individual identified as (FNU) PERRY,

a Houston, Texas contractor, who allegedly flew MC KEITHEN in

his private aircraft to Mexico, with "briefcases full of money".

Informant advised that Mayor SCHIRO bas also been observed

photographed visiting a safety deposit box in the vault of the

National American Bank at New Orleans.

- 3* -

DocId: 32330803

Page 4

---

