# docid-32338824

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90143-10242

HQ

100-370750-78

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Ease#:NW 54460 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 09/10/1945

' PAGES: 13 .

SUBJECTS:

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32338824

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

LOS ANGELES

REPORT MADE AT

LOS ANGELES

TITLE

DATE WHEN MADE

9/10/45

CONFIDENTIAL

FILE NO. (100-21198)

PERIOD FOR

REPORT MADE BY

WHICH MADE

8/19,31; 9/4,

JOHN R. VICARS

5,6,7,10/45

CHARACTER OF CASE

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON, with

aliases

#A INSATION CONTAINEE

15.641

A89

EXCEPT W

CRU SMGUN

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

subject was retcheste

for censure by cultural groups in

Los Angeles County but apparently still retains leadership of

CPA in cultural field here.

He continues to play a leading

role in the Hollywood Writers Mobilization, Hollywood

Independent Citizens! Committee of the Arts, Sciences and

Professions, and in the motion picture strike. In the

latter he recently organized the Hollywood Joint Welfare

Committee to raise a private fund for white collar strikers.

He is pushing EVANS F CARLSON as U. S. Senatorial candidate

against MANCHESTERZOODDY, editor of the "Los Angeles Daily

News". Subject's bank account reflects continued

payments

to reported Communist dominated organizations.

ATE INFORMATION CONTAINED

TRAIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT P-

THERS SHOWN OTHERWISE.

REFERENCE:

Report of Special Agent JOHN R. VICARS

Los Angeles, California, August 7, 1945

Teletype to the Bureau, (August 14, 1945/8

•etter

from San Francisco, August 20, 1745

Letter from san Francisco, May 31, 1945

VMN

To 2045460520

Classified ig

Declassify on:

DETAILS:

COMMUNIST POLITICAL ASSOCIATION ACTIVITIES

COPIES DESTROYED

Representatives of the cultural groups in the Los Angeles area

generally did not attend the Communist Political Association State gnyontion!

370750- 78

Riso

CE DES. DE MENUE DO NOT WHITE IN THESE SPACES

1-24499-36%

COPIES OF THIS RI

RECORDIN

INDEXED

Bureau

3 = Ios

= Nev York (Information)

Ingeles

2061

104

39

HH

54460

DocId: 32338824

Page 2

---

## Page 3

COMMENTARi

LA 100-21198

SOURCE A

SOURCE B

SOURCE C

SOURCE D

CNDI LA 2900 (See resolutions in 100-18874-1A684)

CNDI LA JOl

CNDI LA EE-1

CNDI LA 3058

The above confidential informants have been given temporary

symbols to further protect their identities.

CONFIDENTAL

CONFIDENTIAE

• 12 -

1H 54460

DocId: 32338824

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTALI

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT LOS ANGELES

REPORT MADE AT

LOS ANGELES

TITLE

ToM

DENIAL FILENO. 100-21198

DATE WHEN MADE:

9/10/45

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE

8/19,31, 9/449

9,0,1,10/45

REPORT MADE BY.

JOHN R. VICARS

CHARACTER OF CASE

INTURNAL SECURITY • C

VLD:

JOBIN HOWARD LAWSON,:

with aliases

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPS)

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

Subleot was recolmended for censure by cultural groupe it

Los Angeles County but apparently still retaine lendership of

CPA in cultural fiold horeg Fe continues to play a leading

role in the Hollywood Mritors Mobilination, Hollywood

ALL INFORMAT ON GONN

XLASBIRIED

EMIRE SHOWA

HEREIN IS

OTKERWIS

Independent Citisens! Committee of the Arte, Solences and

Professions, and in the notion picture striked in the

latter he recontly organized the Hollywood Joint hellare

Committee to raiso a private fund for whito collar strikers.

Bo la pushing EVAIS T. CAlLSO as Uo-S. Senatorial candidate

against MANCHESTER BODDY, editor of the "Los Angelos Daily

News" Subjeotts bank account reflects continued payments

to reported Communist doninated organizations

- P=

REFERENCE:

95 K6leS

Satient o

Desasity

1 DAlo

EDIAILS:

Report of Spooial Agent JOIN R. VICARS

Los Angeles, California, August 7, 1945

Teletyge to the Buronu, rugust He 194454C

Lotter from San Francisoo, August 20, 1945

letter from an ali, is afglas

COMMUNIST POLITICAL ASSOCIATION ACTIVITIES

Roprosentatives of the cultural groups in the Los Angeles erea

generally did not attend the Communist Political Association State Convention,

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

SPECIAL AGENT

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

iN CHARGE

Sos fale

COPIÈS OF THIS REPORT

Bureau

Hew York (Information)

3 - Los Angoles

COAIDENTIAR CONFIDENTIA

U. A. GUYRANMINT FRENTINO UFFICE

7-2034

54460

DooId: 32338824

Page 4

---

