# docid-32309391

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10298-10178

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-315

. Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/19/1961

2

SGI, BLASI, DOMINIC, ARMORY LOUNGE, RES, PURCHASES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32309391

254

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Releaged under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 1114-201

-QUAGAN OF INHEATEN

BEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

MRUNCATIONS SECTION

JUL 1 9 1988

TEL

PE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE 6-6-94

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

_BY SP5RJ6

Mr. Tolson_

Mr. Belmont-

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad..

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evang

Mr.LMalone_

Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel.-

Mr. Trotter-

Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

URGENT 7-19-81 9-44 PM CLM

IQ DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31711

FROM SAC, CHICAGO / 92-349/ 2P

SAMUEL MO GIANCANA, AKA, ARO DAILY SUMMARY.

CG SUX FOUR FIVE SEVEN DASH PC ADVISED THAT DOMINIC BLASI, GIANCANA/S

CHAUFFEUR AND BODYGUARD IS NOW DRIVING A NEW VALIANT, LICENSE NUMBER

GV SIX NINE NINE ZERO. PCI ADVISED THIS VEHICLE SEEN AT ARMORY

LOUNGE AS OF THIS DATE, BEING DRIVEN BY BLASI. CAR IS REGISTERED TO

MARIO DE MARIA, OAK PARK, ILLO CG SIX FOUR FIVE SEVEN PC ALSO ADVISED

THAT. GIANCANA HAS GOTTEN RID OF HIS APARTMENT OVER THE PINK CLOCK

RECENTLY, AND APPEARS TO BE ATTEMPTING TO DISPOSE OF CHICAGO TRACES.

INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED THIS DATE AT PEACOCK JEWELERS, CHICAGO, WHOM

INFORMANT ALLEGED SUBJECT PURCHASED JEWELRY FROM. MANAGEMENT THERE

STATES GIANCANA UNKNOWN, NO RECORD OF HIS HAVING AN ACCOUNT THERE.

ASKED RE POSSIBLE PURCHASE OF THIRTY FIVE CARAT DIAMOND, STATED THA

PURICIASE OF THAT NATURE WOULD FUN WELL IN EXCESS DE LUNDKEN

THOUSAND

DOLLARS, 'AND' CAN/T RECALL OF SUREGS PUBCHASE FROM

YEARS. STATED IF PURCHASE WAS MADE THROUGH LE GUL NOTOGCHANNELS, THIS

END PAGE ONE

56'

JUL 24 1968.

4-113

DocId: 32309391 Page 2

---

