# docid-32322355

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

3/31/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10379-10146

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-4039

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

CIT

[Restricted]

HQ

DATE: 08/24/1998

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/20/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32322355

297

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)?

DATE:

11-14-2017

BUNDESKRIMINALAMT

Prasident

Thaerstraße 11

Telefon: (0611) 55-23 17

Telefax: (0611) 55-35 15

Director Louis J. Freeh

Federal Bureau of Investigation

935 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20535

USA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFED

DATE5-10-99 B15:66815LD /KSP

(JFK)

Dear Director Freeh:

Thank you very much for your request forwarded in May this year. I wish to apologise for the

long period of time that has elapsed since then, but it took some time for the Bundeskriminalamt to

establish what happened to the documents from the year 1964.

The interest of the public in disclosure of all relevant information obtained by the investigative

authorities in connection with President Kennedy's assassination is understandable, especially in

the light of the still lively discussion on the reasons for the assassination. Bearing this in mind, I

would have liked to comply with your request.

I can now supply the following information to you:

In view of the time that has elapsed since the information was obtained and forwarded to your ,

service, the Bundeskriminalamt no longer retains any files on the Kennedy case. Appropriate data

have been deleted under the existing legal provisions regarding retention times and/or within the

framework of regular reviews of explanations given for the storage of person-related information in

police files.

62F-+9-1029205-4034

Checks on the basis of excerpts from information provided by our service kindly made

available to us reveal that the individuals mentioned therein are still alive and that there is no

- information in hand on the individuäl named BUSKE. However, under. German law (Federal

Archives Act), person-related information may only be used by third persons thirty years after the

death of the individual in question. If the year of death cannot be determined or only with

unreasonable expense and effort (as would be the case with BUSKE), the time limit for protection

of information from disclosure does not end until110 years after the birth of the individual in

question.

Aikin

DocId: 32322355 Page 2

---

