# docid-32373754

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INEORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10308-10268

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : LA DIV WORK FILE

the

John

F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 144

USC

2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53217

Date: 06-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : HAMBURG

TO = DIRECTOR

TITLE : CABLE: DURING DEBRIEFINGS 24 AND 25 OCT IN BRISTOL.

DATE : 10/30/1963

PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS : DEBRIEEING

DOCUMENT TYPE = PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

÷ 09/21/98

COMMENTS : JFK-WF02 : F8 : 1998.09.21.08:16:04:263129

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

10410308-10268

NY 53217 DoeId:32373754

Page

1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

* DIRECTOR

IMMedIATE RELAyTO PariO,

ATTN': ONTRICH

300t63

LEE, NOTIEILD AND COPY SLOTTED 0920 30 0CT/LMG)

DOR, ADOR C/SOD 4, c/CIC/FI2, C/SAS 5;

RF, VR C/VE 2

ROUTING

EsB

300ст 53 m 503 € 1

RET

301200Z

PRIORIT DIR INFO FRAN-LOND BRUS HAGLINADR WAVE CITE HAMB 3079

RYBAT/ANYXES ZRAGON CASAILOR MHAPRON

REF DIR 76941

350ct03

DURING DEBRIEFINGS 24 AND 25 OCT IN BRISTOL CASAILOR 25

EVAMED IDENTITIES WITH WHOM: HE IN CONTACT AND CERTAIN THEY ANTI-

REGIME AND ILLING BE ACTIVE IN FIGHT TO DESTROY IT. CASAILOR

25 MADE FOLG COMMENTS ABOUT EACH IDEN:

N6N783

7 4074

IDEN AT CASAILOR 25 SHARED CELL IN ISLE OF PINES PRISON

VITH HIM AND HE AND C 25 "LIKE BROTHERS." HE DROVE C 25 TO SHIP

CARDENAS IN MIDAUGUST PRIOR PRESENT TRIP AND SEEN FREQUENTLY

BX9.C5 WHILE HOME.

DENIS TOLD CASAILOR 25 IN HAVANA IN JULY 63 MANY

RUSSIADS IN ORIENTE AND SITUATION TERRIBLE THERE. COMPLAINED

BITTERLY OF REGIME AS FRIEND € 25 HE WOULD NOT, REPORI O 25

ALTHOUGH MIGHT REFUSE ACTIVE ROLE*

CHOB COMMENT::

IDEN 8 IS

PRESENTLY TARGET FOR RECRUITMENT THROUGH CASAILOR 30.)

GIDENSO TOLD C 25 IN JULY 63 NE WOULD LIKE SAME OPPORTUNITY

AS C 25 HAS TO LEAVE CUBA AND STAY QUT.

DESCRIBED BY C 25 AS VERY

BRAVED VERY ANTI-REGIME O

C 25 BUYING MEDICINES FOR HIM THIS TRIP.

MOB

001

SOAR

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIDITED

Codure fee

Copy No.

NW 53217 DooId:32373754

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CSIPSO-MESGAGE

IN 5030

I PAGED 2

IDEND VERY INTELLIGENT AND KAS MANY GOOD CONTACTS.. OPPOR-

TUNIST TYPE WHO WOULD HAVE TO SEE ADVANTAGE FOR SELF IN COOPERATING.

MAS MENDER ORINAVY RESISTANCE GROUP IN 6L BUT CLAIMS DISCOVERED

TVOSMEN INE ILTRATED INTO GROUP SO REFORTED GROUP TO G2 CLAINING:

SOWN

PARTICIPATION VAS, ONLY TO OBTAIN INFORMATION ONE OF INFILTREES

WAS PONCE DE LEONE WHO AS THEN CAPTAIN IN MINISTRY

OF TREASURE:

GROUP VAS ROUNDED UP AND # PONCE DE LEONE REPORTEDLY KILLED TRYING

TO ESCAPRO C 25 BELIEVES HE NOT KILLED AND WAS REALLY INFORDER

AND NOW LIVING IN HOTEL CAPRIS IN HAVANA**

025 CLAIMS IDENED KNEL

OF OTHER GROUP AT SAME TIME AND DID NOT TURN THEN IN. CASAILOR 1

KNOWS IDEN D AND DESCRIBES HIM AS COWARD.

IDENE - VERY GOOD MAN WHO, ID WILL NOT BE ACTIVE, WILL NOT

RE PORI COZ-PATCH.

IDEN DI VERY BRAVE BUT TALKS TOO MUCH AND C 25 PLANS USE

HIM. ONLY AS SOURCE OF INFO •

IDEN GET CLOSE FRIEND OF C 25 FOR TEN YEARS AND WORKED WITH

12S IN RESISTANCE AGAINST BATISTA

TOLD 025 IN JULY 63WHE AND

C 25 SHOULD BIND BOAT TO TAKE SELVES ANDRANTLE OUTO

IDEN HE C-25 LAST SAW KIM IN APRIL 63-AND ATE THATATINE HE

INTERESTED IN FORMING RESISTANCE GROUP WITH C 25. IDEN M TOLD C 25

IN, EARLY JULY 63 THAT IDEN K ASSISTING KIM TO GET MENBERS OF IDEN M

RESISTANCE GROUP FROM TRINIDAD BY WITKDRAWING POLICE PATROLS FROM

SEGMENT OF TRINIDAD WHERE MEN BEING PICKED UP IN CAR AND TAKEN TO

GUAJAY BYEC 25.

MIDEN

AIN-EARLY AUGUST 63-HEVEXPRESSED INTEREST TO C. 25 IN

FORMING GROUP TO FIGHT: CASTRO.

HH 53217 DocId:32373754 Page 3

---

## Page 4

HED MESSAGE

50361 PAGE 3

IDEN J- HE VERY INTELLIGENT, BRAVE AND AMBITIOUS AND WOULD

NAVE TO SEE ADVANTAGE IN BEING ACTIVE ALTHOUGH NO DOUBT HE ANTI

IDEN K

FREQUENT QUEST, AT C 25 HOME HE BITTERLY, ANTI-REGIME

AND COMPLAINS OF MANY RUSSIANS IN HIS AREA AND CONDITIONS FOR HIS

CHILDREN LISTENS TO VOA WITH C 25 AND CERTAIN HE WOULD BE ACTIVE.

IDEN L - ADVISED C 25 TO JUMP SHIP RECENTLY AND BITTERLY ANTI-

REGIME

IDEN NAND ON C 25 AND HIS WIFE ARE PROVIDING THESE MEN WITH

FOOD AND MONEY AT THEIR PLACE OF HIDING. C 25 CLOSE FRIEND OF IDEN N

BUT DID NOT KNOW IDEN O PREVIOUSLY.

IDEN PE TOLD C 25 IN LATE JULY 63 HE INTERESTED IN LEAVING

CUBATOR FIGHTING:

IDEN O IN DISCUSSIONS WITH C 25 IN JUNE AND JULY 63 HE ASKED

C 25 WHAT HE AND C 25 COULD DO TOGETHER AGAINST REGIME AND SUGGESTED

ORGAN ZING GROUP, IN NAVY.

C 25 DESCRIBES HIM AS VERY IMPULSIVE.

0-25 TOLD HIN HOLD OFF ANY ACTION UNTILIC 25 RETURN FROM PRESENT

VOYAGE

IDEN R- WANTS C 25 ORGANIZE GROUP AND APPOINT HIN TO LEAD, PART

OF IT. C 25 DESCRIBES HIM AS OPPORTUNIST WHO WILL DO ANYTHING AGAINST

REGIME IF ADVANTAGE FOR HIMSELF.

IDENS TOLD C 25 IN AÚGUST THAT CASTRO MUST BE KILLED AND ALL

RESISTANCE GROUPS ORGANIZEDS DESCRIBED BY C-25 JAS 02FORTUNE SL

-WHO WOULD NEED PROMISE OF ADVANTAGE IN RETURN FOR HELP.

C:25 BELIEVES HE IS CAPABLE BEGINNING REVOLUTION WHICH COULD: TA

CONTROL OF GUANAJAY AND ARTEMISA AND NEIGHBORING AREAS AND HOLD

HH 53217 DocId:32373754 Page 4

---

## Page 5

ASSING MESSAGE

- IN 5036

= PAGE4

PANAMUS OF 48 HOURS BEFORE THE SOVIET MILIIARY STRENGIN COULD

BC CONCENTRATED IN AREA: C 25 CLAIMS MEN HE WOULD USE IN ACTION

NAVE EXCELLENT KNOWLEDGE OF THE ARLA AND WOULD HAVE LITTLE DIFFICULTY

MALING, CONOROL O9 25 COULD NOT

OR WOULD NOT AT THIS, TIME IDENTIFY THE PARTICULAR PERSONS WHO WOULD

LEAD THIS ACTION.

HE WANTS ANSWERS TO FOLG QUESTIONS PRIOR TO HIS

RETURN TO CUBAS

HAT PROMISES CANTHE MAKE TO: PERSONS HE HOPES TO USE?

IN- THIS REGARD SOME MEN MAY HAVE BEEN CLOSELY INVOLVED IN CASTRO

GOVT AND OTHERS WILL DESIRE PROMISE OF POSITION OR MONETARY REWARD.

B. ONCE SHOOTING SHOULD START, WHAT KIND OF OUTSIDE SUPPORT

CAN HE EXPECTZ HOW CAN HIS GROUP BE ASSURED THEY WILL NOT BE

CAUGIT IN MIDDLE FOR EXAMPLE IF BIG BATTLE DEVELOPS IN WHICH BOTH

SIDES SHOOTING AT HIS MEN? CASE OFFICER EXPLAINED MANY REASONS FOR

NECESSITY, OF COORDINATION WITH ODYOKE ANY ACTION BY HIM AND SUBJECT

TO BE DISCUSSED FURTHER AT NEXT MEETING. OBVIOUS FROM KIS COMMENTS

- C225 /EXPECTS ATTACK BY OUTSIDE FORCE TO FOLLOW HIS GROUPS ACTION

LUMEDIATELY.

C.NVHAT POSITION WILL HE RECEIVE IF REVOLUTION SUCCESSFUL?

HOW WILL PERSONS NOW OUTSIDE KNOW HIS ROLE IN CASTRO DEFEAT?

C, 25 HAS RECEIVED LETTERS FROM MIAMI THREATENING HIS LIFE ONCE

EXILES RETURN.

ID. IF HE IS KILLED,

REGARDLESS OF OUTCOME HIS EFFORTS,, HAT

WILL ODYOKE DO FOR HIS FAMILY?

IN ADDITION TOMANSWERS TO ABOVE C-25 ASKED TO BE PROVIDED

WITHSSUFFICIENT AMOUNT OF CUBAN PESOS TO ALLOW HIM TO, TRAVEL AND

HH 53217 DocId:32373754 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MESSAG

933614

I PAGE 5

CRATE AFTER HIS RETURN. HE HAS SPENT

OF HIS SAVINGS

¿CENTY (NORE THAN 6000 PESONS> ASSISTING RESISTANCE MEN AND

STATES HE CANNOT MOVE WITHOUT FUNDS.

4. NEXT MEETING WITH C 25 IS SCHEDULED FOR DAY OF MIS ARRIVAL

AT NEXT PORT WHICH PROBABLY WILL BE ROTTERDAD CIRCA 6 NOVEMBER.

PLS COMNENT ON ABOVE IN DETAIL AND ADVISE: IF AND HOW MANY CUBAN

PESOS CAN BE PROVIDED PRIOR TO MEETING, PLS TRACE IDENS AND PROVIDE

GUIDANCE ON CONTACTS C 25 SHOULD PURSUE. WARMBOLD AND CASAILOR

1 ASSESSMENT OF C 25 DURING BRISTOL MEETINGS

THAT HE TRUTHFUL RE CONTACTS AND INFO BUT POSSIBLY WITHHOLDING INFO.

ON OTHER CONTACTS AND HOW FAR HE HAS ALREADY GONE IN TALKS WITH THEM

AND HIS PLANS SHOULD KUBARK DISCOURAGE ACTION BY HIM NOW.

WE WILL CONTINUE PUSH FOR ADDITIONAL INFO ON CONTACTS,

PLANS AND NECESSITY FOR COORDINATION BUT GUIDELINES WOULD BE

APPRECIATED*

NW 53217 DocId:32373754

Page 6

---

