# docid-32307945

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act 01 1992 (41 USC 2TUT Töte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/20/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10293-10303

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2156

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

, DATE:

10/13/1967

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, TRA, CANNERIES, TELCAL, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32307945

32

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

22. OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

59199

t590:2

MAY 1052 EDITION

DEA DEN. RED. 18, 27

UNITED STATES G

ERNMENT

Memorandum®

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

DATE: 10/13/67

FROM

SAC,

LOS ANGELES (92-11120 (RUC)

SUBJECT:

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR

AARON

SAMUEL MARSHALL,

aka

Aaron Moshiek (TN) ,

A. S. Marshall,

AL Marshals

Al Marshall.

Al Moris,

• Joe Stried

AR

00: Omaha

Re Los Angeles airtel to Bureau, 9/16/67.

3) - Bureau (92-6054) (RM)

(1-137-9890)

6 - Omana (92-485) (A.S. MARSHAL)

9 - Kansas City. (92-1520) (A.S. MARSHAL) (Info)

1

1

1

8

-

92-007/ (D. KRAMER)

92-262

1 - 105-100) (J. GILLISPIE)

- New York (Info)

- Washington Field (Info) (92-1704)

- Chicago (Info)

Las Vegas (Info)

- Dallas (92-383) (Info)

(1 - 92-741)

- 92-192

1

(A•S TANNSHAL REC

EX-113

92-36)

(1

= 72-625-Sub)

92-6054-2156

- Los Angeles (92-1112)

1 - 92-2823 A:S: MARSHAL)

- 92-2718 1 JOE IANNI

18. 0CT. 1 9 1967

92-233) (JOSEPH CIVELLO)

92-822

(NICHOLAS CIVELLA)

92-107 FRANK

DES IMONE)

137-3772)

1

GEB/sdb

(36)

55NOV 211967

2-10113

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

137-97906

DocId: 32307945 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

•*:

LA 92-1112

LA 4476-T-CE has furnished the follwing information

,concerning his experience and knowledge and contacts with

AL MARSHAL, FBI NO. 479 888, JOSEPH CIVELLO, JOSEPR IANNI,

and NICHOLAS CIVELLA:

In December 1966, source was contacted by cARl

I'HOMPSON, runner and reported bag man for attorney HARRY

concerning KENNETH CHILDS of Wichita, Kansas, who was

un federal erobation and who desired his probation be terminateà.

In an effort to determine the contacts of FRANK

DESIMONE (LOS Angeles LCN Boss, deceased 8/4/67,, source

mentioned the CHILDS matter to DESIMONE on 1/1/67,

when

both were at the residence of Attorney JOHN MARSHAL, DESIMONE

suggested they take a ride. Source and DESIMONE went to a

public phone nearby, on Sunset Blvd., Los Angeles.

DESIMONE

called the Kirkwood Hotel, Des Moines, Iowa, phone 515-244-9191,

and asked for AL MARSHAL, stating Mr.

FRANK was calling. He

told MaRSHAL to go to a

pay phone and call him back at the pay

phone DESIMONE was calling from. MARSHAL did call back and

DESIMONE introduced source to MARSHAL on the phone who explained

the CHILDS matter.

MARSHAL said he knows Judge WESLEY BROWN'S

best friend, in Wichita, who is a corporation lawyer and he

was sure the matter could be handled in obtaining termination

of probation for CHILDS. MARSHAL sald he would go to wichita

and return Wednesday.

DESIMONE came back on the phone with MARSHAL and

after hanging up, told source that MARSHAL needed $300 expense

Source agreed and on the following day, 1/2/67, he

ment $300 by western. Union Money Order to AL MARSHAL, Kirkwood

Hotel, signed Mr. DAN.

On 1/3/57, at about 11:30 AM

MARSHAL called source

advising he was going to wichita

on 1/4/67, and would be ir

Los Angeles

on 1/6/67. He said he had to

come to los Angele:

any way because he has a large civil suit pending in court.

-2 -

DocId: 32307945 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-1112

When source advised DESIMONE on the same day,

DESIMONE said that source should not give MARSHAL any more

money for expenses.

If money is. needed, it should be placed

in escrow and DESIMONE would be glad to

act as the escrow.

on 1/5/67, MARSHAL called source from Wichita at

about 11:35 AM, advising he was staying at the Broadview

Hotel, Room 429. He said there is nothing any one can do

concerning CHILDS getting off Federal Probation in Wichita.

According to MARSHAL, CHILDS was about to be indicted both

Federally and locally concerning a security theft of $3, 000,000.

he had been in touch with Judge BROWN's best friend,

been advised that the matter could not be pursued.

MARSHAL wanted $200 more for expense money and requested

source to ask DESIMONE to call MARSHAL that evening.

Source called DESIMONE the same day and after each

of them going to a pay phone, source related his conversation

with MARSHAL. DESIMONE said that's the way it goes and source

should not give MARSHAL any more money. DESIMONE said he

would call MARSHAL as requested.

on 3/24/67, source received a letter from MARSHAL

on Kirkwood Hotel stationery, advising that he was going to

come out to Los Angeles that

week and wanted to meet with

source and DESIMONE. Enclosed was a sealed envelope marked,

FRANK D., Personal, with instructions for source to give it

to DESIMONE. Source gave the envelope to DESIMONE on 3/27/6?,

who read it and then handed it to source.

The message read

to the effect that nothing was going on and the law suft had

bogged down.

He wanted to see FRANK and source and talk

business.

Source subsequently mentioned to FRANK DESIMONE

that Attorney HARRY WEISS has a pending Internal Revenue Tax

case and WEISS might be indicted. DESIMONE said he would mention

It to AL MARSHAI.

- 3 -

DocId: 32307945 Page 1

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-1112

Söurce received a letter from AL MARSHAL On 4/17/67,

written on the Georgetown Inn, Washington,

D. C.

stationery,

advising that he was in washington, D.

to obtain help

for source on the WEISS case and wanted $1,000 for expenses.

He also mentioned that

had met with FRANK's cousin, J.C.

in Dallas on the evening of 4/16/67.

On the same day, 4/17/67, MARSHAL called source

and elaborated on the subject matter mentioned in the letter

as well as advising that JOE CIVELLO of Dallas has a man

interested in buying tomatoe canneries in California and

wanted source and FRANK DESIMONE to locate a cannery for

sale and insure that finders fees are obtained for MARSHAL,

CIVELLO, DESIMONE and source.

on 4/21/67, source related his conversation with

MARSHAL tO DESIMONE.

DESIMONE said for source to watch

MARSHAL, that MARSHAL used to be well connected, but would

try to hustle source for money.

Source told DESIMONE about

the cannery deal but DESIMONE

was noncommittal and was not

feeling very well.

On 4/25/67,

source received a letter from MARSHAL

from Texas

on the stationery of the Holiday Inn.

MARSHAL

said he was now on the way to los Angeles and was asking

source what he had found out so far about the cannery matter.

on 4/26/67, MARSHAL called source that morning

and left a message that he was at the Beverly Hilcrest Hotel,

Room 208. Source subsequently contacted MARSHAL telephonically

the same day.

MARSHAL said that the buyer wants the Wilson

Cannery in Stockton, which is for sale and does not want to

pay over a million dollars. MARSHAL said that two nights

previously, he was in Dallas with FRANKS cousin, JOE CIVELLO.

He said he

was staying in Los Angeles two or three days and

then going to Las Vegas.

The same day, source related this

contact to DESIMONE.

-4-

DocId: 32307945 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-1112

On 4/27/67, source advised that MARSHAL came to

source's office about 10:45 AM that day. MARSHAL said he

is involved in a corporation that is dormant, known as American

Resources, whoch he is trying to reactivate which has a

product known as Alpha Lube, a heavy duty motor oil for trucks.

He has been to the Pentagon and they were running tests

Ior the possible use for the armed forces. He is trying to

reactivate this company in an attempt to issue stock.

Previous weekend, he said he was in Dallas with

TONY BUFFANO (phonetic), whose family is in the Italian

Restaurant business and

they had a wedding. MARSHAL was also

with JOE CIVELLO, who hates TONY, but had to attend the

wedding.

According to MARSHAL,

CIVELLO was in Leavenworth

Penitentiary about 22 years ago. MARSHAL went to a friend

who was the head of the U. S. Parole Board at that time and

obtained CIVELLO's release within 48 hours. BUFFANO and

CIVELLO's family put up the $7,500 to obtain CIVELLO's release

and subsequently BUFFANO told IRS where the money came from.

For this reason, CIVELLO hates BUFFANO.

The cannery buyer according to MARSHAL, 1S H. I.

HUNT, Texas multimillionaire and owner of Hunts foods. He

a purchasing agent who buys canneries and who is a

personal

friend of JOE CIVELLO. HUNT got into an argument with the

owner of Alpha Beta Markets, and is out to break Alph Beta and

he is trying to buy up all the tomatoe crops in the u. s. and

three canneries in California. The purchasing arent knew

about the wilson Cannery being for sale but told CIVELLO in

order that CIVELLO and his friends could make some money by

charging five to ten percent finders fees from the seller, half of

which would go to CIVELLO and the other half to DESIMONE

As a result of conversations with DESIMONE con-

cerning the cannery deal, DESIMONE. came to source's office on

5/2/67 and requested source to call 415-DOuglas 2-2522, San

Francisco and ask for ANTHONY or JIMMY LANZA (ICN Boss

in

San Francisco.

- 5.-

DocId: 32307945 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-1112

When there was no answer, source called ANTHONY

LANZA in San Mateo, 415-344-4544, when there was no answer,

DESIMONE gave source the unlisted home phone of JIMMY LANZA,

DIapond 3-1608. Again there was no answer.

Later the same

day, source reached ANTHONY LANZA

at his residence. DESIMONE

explained that he was interested in buying some canneries for

friends in Dallas, and

would be up to see LANZA, and source

would call LANZA prior to their departure. Subsequently on

5/4/67, source did talk to TONY LANZA, who had not done

anything on the canneries.

MARSHAL called source on 5/22/67, stating he was

staying at the Beverly Hilcrest Hotel.

MARSHAL, said he was

with FRANK's family in Dallas two nights ago and called to

ask if he hac done anything about the cannery.

Source told

MARSHAL: FRANK had been ill and that they had

been unable

to get anything on it.

MARSHAL said he was leaving for

Las Vegas on 5/23/67 and appeared to be impatient on the

purchase of the canneries.

on 5/27/67, MARSHAL called source advising that he

was staying in Room

508 at the Beverly Hilcrest Hotel in Los

Angeles.

He said that on the previou's night, he had called

JOE CIVELLO in Dallas and the interest in the cannery is

still

there.

MARSHAL said he is leaving on 5/28/67, for Dallas and

will be staying at the Holiday Inn Central.

As a result,

source and DESIMONE left Los Angeles

on 5/31/67 in DESIMONE's Cadillac and met with DESIMONE'S

friends, TONY MAGGIO, King City, California, JOSEPH and RALPH

BRIGANTINO, Hollister and as a result of the contact with

BRIGANTINO, they did not go to San Francisco and the

LANZA's as DESIMONE had originally intended. RALPH BRIGANTINO

agreed to attempt to locate suitable canneries for sale at

the right price.

As a result of this, source called AL MARSHAL

Irom Fresno on 6/1/67, to the Holiday Inn Central at Dallas

and advised MARSHAL what they were doing. MARSHAL was elated.

- 6

DocId: 32307945 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-1112

MARSHAL attempted to call source on 6/3/67, from

Dallas, did not reach source who was in the hospital.

source

received a letter from MARSHAL on 6/6/07, with a return address

but it did not furnish any information of

a Kirkwoan on 616/67 source receved a ca:1 from AL, MARSHAL

the Kirkwood Hotel.

Source informed MARSHAL that the

California cannery owners would not deal with HUNt or his re-

presentative because of

previous problems in particular because

HUNT has tried to buy at a ridiculous low price. MARSHAL said

he was surprised and was going to call Dallas and tell JOE

CIVELLO about this development. MARSHAL said that HUNT's

purchasing agent lives across

the street from CIVELLO.

MARSHAL said he would have CIVELLO call source on the morning

of 6/7/67, in order for source to explain this development

personally.

on 6/7/67,' at about 11:15 AM, JOE CIVELLO called

source and left a message that he would call back at 11:30 AM.

CIVELLO did call back at about that time at a pay phone and

told source that HUNT's man lives

across the street from him.

He said that HUNT is tight with money and crazy. He told

source that he is going to have to find a cannery that HUNT

has not quoted a price or a price or make arrangements to

build two canneries for HUNT.

He also has other people in-

terested in buying the same deal. He hoped source could

put this together and they could make some money together.

CIVELLO said that he did not think Al did anything wrong and

pressed the point that it was not AL's fault because he did

not know. CIVELLO told source to keep in touch with Al, who

Ty than in to ant

would keep CIVELLO informed of the progress.

Source called

AL MARSHAL on 6/13/67, at the Statler-Hilton Hotel, Washington,

him information he had received from

RALPH BRIGANTINO that the GANGI Brothers wanted a million and

a half for their cannery. RALPH suggested that they could add

$150,000 on the price so the buyer would not know this to be

the brokerage fee.

RALPH suggested he would receive 25 percent

of the $150,000, and would give 75 percent to source to share

with his people: Source told MARSHAL to relate this information

to CIVELLO.

-7

DocId: 32307945 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).:

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-1112

on 0/14/07, source received a letter from AL MARSHAI

saying he was going to be at the St. Marie Hotel in New York.

Source then received a wire from MARSHAL advising he was at

the Commadore Hotel, New York City.. Source then called MARSHAI

on 5/14/67, at the Commadore Hotel. MARSHAL said that he hao

talked to CIVELLO and everything wàs all right. MARSHAL

was on his way to Des ioines, 6/20/61, source advised he

and would be staying at the

Kirkwood Hotel as

received a letter from MARSHAL advising that H. L. HUNT was

in trouble with the U.S. Department of Interior on off shore.

o11 leases. HUNT had bid $3,000,000 and put up enough money

with the government and then found out that the leases were

only worth about $17,000,000 and went berserk. Consequently

HUNT is thinking about other things besides the cannery.

On 7/5/67, source met with AL MARSHAL at the Beverly

Hilcrest Hotel, Beverly Hills, and they had dinner together.

MARSHAL said he owns TOM CLARK and that they had to elevate

CLARK because of a 1950 vote fraud. (Undoubtedly referring

to the Kansas City vote fraud case. MARSHAL mentioned that

he knows a girl, BLANCHE HOWARD, who was a girlfriend of

hoodlums in Kansas City and a madame who is now working as

a clerk in the City Hall in San Francisco.

After dinner,

they went to MARSHAL's room and talked about Alpha Lube

and

the cannery matter.

MARSHAL placed a call to the hotel

perator at phone number AP9-8683, Dallas, Texas,

to JOE

CIVELLO and put source on the phone.

CIVaLTO said that HUNI

is 300,000 to 400,000 cases of

tomatoes short and is still

interested in buying the canneries.

He said that HUNT is

involved with someSneedan movement and is presently occupied

but it is going to be all right and they are all going to

made a lot of money.

CIVELLO then requested source to put

AL back on thephone who informed CIVELLO that he was going to

Las Vegas and will be staying at the Tropicana Hotel.

FRANK DESIMONE. went to the Good Samaritan Hospital

on 1/1067, as a result of his previous heart attack and died

on 8/4/67, without ever leaving the hospital.

_ 8-

DocId: 32307945 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-1112

on 7/26/67, source again visited MARSHAL at the

Beverly Hilcrest Hotel, Room 604. MARSHAL Called JOE

CIVELLO at about 6:15 PM, at AD8-6983, and put source on the

Source told JOE CIVELLO that FRANK was sick in the

hospital and source desired to protect FRANK's interest and

to

see that anything FRANK had coming went to his mother, be-

cause he did not think FRANK was going to make it. JOE said

that he could not come out and for source to tell Dr. JOE

DESIMONE, brother of FRANK, that he would not come out for the

funeral, In the event of FRANK's death, because of the em-

barrassment It might cause the lamily.

JOE asked source to

keep in touch with him on this matter.

Source and MARSHAl then had dinner at the hotel.

MARSHAL talked about the news in the papers about cheating

at the Friar's Club in Beverly Hills and said that he knows

whose name was mentioned in the

newspapers on

a guy from Minnesota to take off some rich suckers in Palm

Springs. (It is noted that BILLY DOUGLAS,

true name VERNELL

FURLONG, is from Minnesota and a subject in the current

Friar's Club investigation in Los Angeles, in the case

captioned,

"JOHN ROSSELLI, aka ET AL, ITAR = GAMBLING -

PURGERY,

Los Angeles 166-1048"

) MARSHAL also mentioned that

TONY GIZZO put out the contract to kill CHARLES BANAGIO on

4/6/50, in Kansas City.

Source

invited MARSHAL to source's residence for

dinner on the night of 8/3/67.

MARSHAL mentioned that he

was expecting a $1,700 cashier's check on 8/4/67 and wanted

source to cash it for him.

They discussed the Friar's Club

and MARSHAL mentioned that he had met JOHN ROSSELLI once when

ROSSELLI had just been released from prison and was intro-

duced by FRANK DESIMONE, at the Beverly-Wilshire Hotel, about

13 years ago. He never saw him again. MARSHAL, according

to source, is extremely knowlegeable,

and has a

memory for

names, dates, and places.

pnominal

-9-

DocId: 32307945 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the-Fohn F. Kennedy AssassinaL10Ti

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-1112

on the morning of 8/4/67, when source was informed

by JACK CANTELLA of the death of DESIMONE that morning, source

Immediately called JOE CIVELLO at about 10:52 AM,' at AD9-8683,

Dallas and informed him of FRANK's death.

JOE was very upset

and requested FRANK's home number because he wanted to call

immediately.

Source gave CIVELLO FRANK'S No. I02-3106, in

source mentioned that he might have to

be in Houston in October for the dog show, so CIVELLO immediately

invited source to come to Dallas and be his guest.

CIVELLO

asked if MARSHAL was still in town and source told him yes.

MARSHAL then shortly thereafter,

called source and source

told him about FRANK's death and that he had called CIVELLO.

On 9/13/67, MARSHAL contacted source and was still

in Los Angeles.

MARSHAL said that he is receiving inside

information on

the professional football games and knows the

book makers in

the country, including Kansas City,

Missouri, Washington,

Boston, and Texas. He

rave source a tin on the 40'ers to win by more than c

points

and they did.

MARSHAL said he bet $500 on the 49sers.

MARSHAL said

there. is

"Hanky panky"

going with the Kansas City

Chiefs and the New Orleans Saints. MARSHAL is betting on

this game and wäs trying to talk source into betting with

him, but source declined since he does not gamble. MARSHAL

mentioned that MILT JACOBS from Minnesota is the greatest

gin player in the country and is not a cheater. MARSHAL

suggested that source line up

some money people and MARSHAL

would bring JACOBS out to Los Angeles or better still Palm

Springs for a game.

MARSHAL Would put $100,000 in a bank

account in JACOBS name in Palm Springs. MARSHAL also mentioned

that JOE GILLISPIE from Kansas City, Missouri, gives him the

inside information on football. He

said all the big action

concerning sports games, is being held in Omaha, and

the

big bookmakers sent their action there apparently as

lay off

betting.

On 8/16/67, source contacted MARSHAL at the Beverly

Hilcrest Hotel and requested him to have CIVELLO call source.

- 10 ÷

DocId: 32307945 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy. Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-1112

CIVELLO called source from a phonebooth at about 4:30 PM,

the same day.

Source told CIVELLO he had met with JOE

DESIMONE and

discussed a Nevada situation, meaning the pur-

chase of the Riviera Hotel, Las Vegas, and needed to see

CIVELLO as early as possible. CIVELLO invited source to

come to Dallas and meet with him.

Source then called MARSHAL at the Beverly Hilcrest

Hotel and they agreed they would leave together on 8/19/67

for dallas on American Airlines, flight 20, departing at

11:45 AM. MARSHAL said they would stay at the Hilton Hotel

and have dinner there and meet with CIVELLO at the hotel.

On 8/19/57, source and MARSHAL arrived at the

Source and MARSHAL checked into room 520.

met CIVELLO for the first time.

MARSHAL had previously talked

to source and told him that he would excuse himself so that

source could talk to CIVELLO personally.

shortly

checking into the room, MARSHAL did excuse himself saying

he was going down to the lobby to call JoE GIllISpta in Des

Moines to get information concerning the Kansas City and

Oakland game. MARSHAL explained that GILLISPIE was all right

his information was good, and later suggested that source

and CIVELLO bet on Oakland and 5 points.

CIVELLO and source

agreed to bet $500 each.

After MARSHAL left the room, source

turned on the television loud and discussed the deal to purchase

the Riviera Hotel with monied people in Texas and with source

in control. CIVELLO got a big smile on his face and was

interested since source said he

would cut him in.

CIVELLO

said that AL knows a friend of JOE's in Kansas City, later

identified by MARSHAL as NICK CIVELLA who could arrange this

and in fact MARSHAL is going to front a piece of property

in Las Vegas.

Source also told ICVELLO an arrangement which

he exagerated he had had with DESIMONE, as being the contact

for teamster loans in California, and receiving the fee and

did DESIMONE speak to CIVELLO about this. CIVELLO said that

- 11 -

DocId: 32307945 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-1112

DESIMONE had not, but the man to handle this arrangement 1s

Attorney BUFFALINO, in San Francisco,

but source would have

to be introduced to BUFFALINO personally by CIVELLO who was

not going to San Francisco until November 1967.

When MARSHAL returned to the room, CIVELLO told

him to set up a meeting between

source and NICK, as soon as

possible.

CIVELLO said that NICK could set this up with a

phone call but CIVELLO could not do it. After about 30

minutes, they left and went to dinner in CIVELLO's car.

source explained that he did not have a contact in los

Angeles

now that DESIMONE was dead.

CIVELLO said that once source

meets NICK, he will be in touch with the right people and

that AL was in touch with NICK all the time.

In fact, source

should deal through AL and not meet with CIVELLO again.

CIVELLO mentioned a Mr. R in New York who could handle this

matter regarding a teamster loan, or the Riviera Hotel.

Source

told CIVELLO that if this deal goes through that CIVELLO

is in and he accepted. CIVELLO told AL to go to Kansas City

Tuesday and set up a meeting for source and NICK. AL was not

told by CIVELLO what the deal was that he was to arrange for

the meeting.

After dinner,

they drove to CIVELLO's residence

who mentioned

They had

him off with a HARRY TRUMAN pardon.They then drove source to

the airport and dropped him off about 8 PM, and CIVELLO and

MARSHAL left the airport to gether with source catching the

8:20 PM plane for Los Angeles.

On 8/20/67, MARSHAL called

source

and

said he was

going to NICK, Tuesday and then call:: source

who should be

ready

to come

to Kansas City.

- 12 -

DocId: 32307945 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-1112

On: 8/21/67, MARSHAL Called source from Dallas and

from MARSHAL's double talk, source assumed NICK was in Dallas.

MARSHAL told source to bring papers concerning the purchase

Riviera Hotel to Newyork City, where he would meet

AL and NICK, who would introduce source to the man.

Source

will then relate the deal and the man in New York will arrange

the deal

further.

On 8/22/67, source received a letter from MARSHAL

post marked from Dallas,

informing that GILLISPIE had mislead

them claiming he was mislead and since they had lost because

of this, they would not have to pay GILLISPIE, any money.

MARSHAL

said he would be at the Country Side Hotel in Kansas

City, on the afternoon of 8/23/67.

Again on 8/22/67, source received a telegram that

day from Dallas reading, "Will be at Essex's house, New York

City, around 9:30 to night, contact me there. Signed Tantos."

on 8/22/67, on about 6:30 PM,

source called the Essex

House, New York City.

MARSHAL said that after source left

Dallas,

they talked

it over and decided that MARSHAL should

talk to

"Little JOE" (later determined to be JOSEPH IANNI, Dallas

[CN member), in downtown Dallas.

Later JOE said to not go

through NICK CIVELLA, but go straight to the man in New York

City, Mr. R. D. , the top man In New York City.

CIVELLO

agreed with this suggestion so MARSHAL and IANNI went to

New York City, to arrange an apointment for source to meet with

the man who replaced JIMMY HOFFA.

This is all for the purpose

of obtaining a teamster loan to buy the Riviera Hotel.

On 8/24/67, MARSHAL called source from Room 824 from

the Essex, New York City, at about 12:30 PM, advised that he

could not make the connection with the man in New York and he

will now have to go to Kansas City to see NICK CIVELLA as

originally planned. He planned on leaving New York that night

with JOE IANNI for Kansas City and will be at the Continental

Hotel, and advised source when the apointment is set.

- 13. -

DocId: 32307945 Page 14

---

## Page 15

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

: a.

LA 92-1112

On 8/25/67, source called MARSHAL, at the Continental

Hotel and left a message and MARSHAL called him back and said

he was with Little JOE from Dallas and that source has got

a teamster loan of $15,000,000 for the purchase of the Riviera

Hotel

MARSHAL said he had

been to see NICK that day and got

the loan 1000 percent. He said he is coming to Los Angeles

with Iittle JOE on the night of 8127/67, but first they are

going to Dallas and he will be in the Hilton Inn. MARSHAL

said that source will have to go to Washington, D. C. to

finalize the loan.

According to MARSHAL, Little JOE iS a

currier back to NICK CIVELIA.

MARSHAL mentioned that there is another very big deal

in Las Vegas, that he can get source into with the same financing.

On 8/27/67, source received a call from MARSHAL who was

at the Beverly Hilcrest Hotel with IANNI. Source invited them

over his residence and they arrived shortly after 8 PM. They

went outside in the back yard and talked about the Riviera

Hotel deal. It was agreed that source would hold hidden points

for NICK CIVELIA, JOE CIVELLO, AL MARSHAL, JOE IANNI, and

FRANK DESIMONE'S

family.

source brought up the man SIDNEY

KORSHAK, known to represent the Riviera Hotel as a former

IANNI said that they can take care of

KORSHAK and NICK will take KORSHAK out and quiet him down if

there is any trouble.

IANNI said there was another deal in

Las Vegas coming up in November and the teamster has already

made

committal which NICK has control. (This probably

refers to the Landmark Hotel, which was due to open in

November and is scheduled for New Year's eve, 1967). Source

also learned that IANNI is a friend of JERRY

ZAROWITZ.

Both

IANNI and MARSHAL like CHESTER SIMS and when source said he

believed he could get CHESTER to run the casino, they agreed

that they would be in favor of SIMS operating their casino.

On 8/28/67, MARSHAL, IANNI, and PHIL DAVID, Who

represents the packager of this deal

and is supposedly is

close to the owners of the Riviera Hotel, and CHESTER SIMS met

at sources residence at about 12 noon.

MARSHAL said that

-14.

DocId: 32307945 Page 15

---

## Page 16

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

*J.

LA 92-1112

IANNI's father went to the Federal penitentiary on a narcotics

violation and the father was the

"Patrone" in Dallas before

JOE CIVELLO. MARSHAL also said that he obtained a pardon for

IANNI's father from President TRUMAN.

MARSHAL said that IANNI

is a currier for JOE CIVELLO and his right arm.

PHIL DAVID explained the Riviera Hotel deal and when

he fintshed MARSHAL and IANNI said they could get a $25,000,000

Ioan from the teamsters Chicago Pension fund..

IANNI said that

the man in Chicago who approves the loans will have to be paid

$250,000 when the loan comes out of escrow.

IANNI said he was going back to Dallas and then Kansas

City and MARSHAL drove him to the airport.

That same night, 8/28/67,

source had dinner with

MARSHAL.

MARSHAL informed source

that he is 67 years of age

and has

had three heart attacks. He has not long io live and

would like to leave something for his sister and nephew in Los

Angeles.

MARSHAL said that the Las Vegas deal, previously

referred to is the Landmark Hotel which is under the complete

control of NICK CIVELLA. The hotel is scheduled to open in

November and they can steal three or four million from the

loan when thehotel opens. All that MARSHAL wants is $200,000

for himself for security. The hotel is available for the

right buyer.

MARSHAL wants source to meet NICK CIVELLA to be his

man and he has mentioned this to NICK CIVELLA. MARSHAL said

that JOHN ROSSELLI entered the U.S. illegible and there fore

the government can prove it.

MARSHAL said he is paying for

IANNI's plane fare and suggested that source help pay for this

expense.

source said he would speak to PHIL DAVID about it.

•On 8/29/67, when AL MARSHAL came to see source at his office

and asked about his expenses,

source again said he was

going to mention it to PHIL DAVID. MARSHAL said to forget

- 15 -

DocId: 32307945

Page 16

---

## Page 17

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-1112

on 8/31/67, source informed Dr. JOE DESIMONE about

his dealings with JOE CIVELLO and the teamster loan and that

there would be points from FRANk's interest to JoE DESImonE.

on 9/2/67, source called MARSHAL at about 3 PM at

the Dallas Hilton Inn. He informed MARSHAL that he would

have the finance statement that week.

MARSHAL again asked

for expense money.

Source again said he would spek to PHIL

DAVID.

MARSHAL replied that source should gravitate towards

MARSHAL's people and appeared cool.

On 9/4/67, MARSHAL Cälled source from Dallas and

said his people in Dallas have cooled and are going to pass

this deal.

He said he would be out in Los Angeles in about

a week and would see

source then.

on 9/5/67, source called JOE CIVELLO at Dallas at

about 3:45 PM.

CIVELLO said he would call source from a pay

shone at about 6:30 PM that day. CIVELLO did call at about

1:15 PM that day and Iniormec

source that his banker said

no on this deal and he had instructed AL to so advise source.

JOE said that AL was in Dallas and was

returning to Los

Angeles, that week.

on 9/13/67, source was shown a photograph of AARON

SAMUEL MARSHAL, FBI No. 479 388 and JOSEPH IANNI and he

identified them as the persons he knew by those names that

he had been in contact with.

On 9/13/67, source contacted Dr. JOSEPH DESIMONE

suggested that DESIMONE should contact CIVELLO.

DESIMONE said

that JOE CIVELLO's cousin is here and he talks

to him all the

time and he would go to Dallas immediately and find out why

CIVELLO stoped the negotiations.

- 16 -

DocId: 32307945 Page 17

---

## Page 18

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

• DATE: 11-14-2017

•.*.

LA 92-1112

On 9/21/67, Dr. DESIMONE said that he had called

CIVELLO in Dallas on 9/17/67, concerning the conversation

source and DESIMONE previously had regarding the teamster

loan for the purchase of the Riviera Hotel.

CIVELLO acted

funny and mumbled and informed DESIMONE that his people had

cooled off and if his people could not be involved, he could

not be involved. Source presumed from this that NICK CIVELLA

did not want to, or could not arrange for a teamster loan.

On 3/22/67, source received a blistering letter

[rom AL MANShAL Irom DeS Moines, Lowa, claiming that source

wed him $1,600 including $500 that source agreed to bet on

the

football game with MARSHAL.

This was the last contact as of 10/10/67, that

source has had with AL MARSHAL.

Any additional contacts by MARSHAL Will be reported

by source, and interested offices will be advised.

It is requested that the above information be

handled in a discrete matter, in order that the informant

is not compromised.

- 17-

DocId: 32307945 Page 18

---

