# docid-32293132

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10210-10408

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-81285-66

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CV

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

03/12/1962

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

REW, LTR, REL, EXIT VISA, SOURCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

NW 45984

34

DocId: 32293132 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OTHER 4

BIS

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES GOVER

Memorandum

ENT

SECRET

106 4

FROM

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-81285)

SAC, CLEVELAND (105-3792)

(c)

DATE:

March 12, 1962

ALD IN

NOSEIN

KNEELE SHO

TON CONTAIWED

CRASSTFLED EXCEPS

PIERWISE..

SUBJECT:

ROBERT EDWARD

WEBSTER

IS - R

(00: CLEVELAND)

Declassity on: OAD&

(JEN

Enclosed for the Bureau are five (5) copies of a

letterhead memorandum concerning the subject.

The first confidential source utilized in this

memorandum was Mr. H. JAMES RAND, President of the Rand

Development Corporation of Cleveland, a confidential source

of the Cleveland Office who has furnished reliable information

in the past and whose identity is concealed at his request.

The second confidential source in the enclosed

memorandum 1s

I Treasurer, Rand Development

Corporation, a confidential source of the Cleveland office who

has furnished reliable information in the past and whose

identity is concealed at his request.

The information in

the enclosed letterhead memorandum was furnished to SA MILTON

P. MANDT.

This letterheadmemorandum is classified Confidential

in the disclosure of the identity of yr. RAND and Mr. I

sources of continuing value to the cleveland office,

jeopardize their future effectiveness. LIt is fürther classified

Confidential inasmuch as it reflects,

investigative interest

In a foreign diplomatic official. (Bu)

One copy each of this letter and letterhead memorandum

Is being sent to Washington Field for Informational purposes,

inasmuch as WEBSTER's father may have additional contact with

the Soviet Embassy in Washington, D. C-LSU

Bureau (Enc. 5) (RM)

REC- 7

1.05-81285-66

- Washington Fieia (Enc. ]) (INFO) (RM) U3

2 - Cleveland

1 - 105-3792

134-591 79\4

2 0a bAS AR 18. 1962

MPM/ Jmo

(5)

J0 MI

OSURE

6 1962 REE СУ

. REQ RECID

State; C/9, INS

BATE FORW

SENHEY

HW 45984 DocId: 32293132

Page 2

---

