# docid-32176263

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10184-10258

RECORD_ SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: CR 100-264688-505

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

KING, JOHN E.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/23/1964

PAGES: 16

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPER, ROMANUL AMERICAN, LHO, CIA AGENT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

07/01/1997

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

02/12/2001

-

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 46096 DocId: 32176263 Page 1

---

## Page 2

_ Do Poette

Roporing OMica

PATRONT

TITLE OF CASE

"ROXANUL, AMERICAN"

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAL

Office of Origin

DETROIT

Date

Intestigative Pariod

1/23/64

Report made by

7/15/83 - 1/11/61

SA JOHN E. KING

CHARACTER OF CASE

jlp

318-RU

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HENGIN IS UNCLASSIFIED, EXCEM

WHERE SHOWNBOTHERWISE.

Report of SA JOHN B. KING, at Detroit

dated 7/19/63.

Detroit letters to the Bureau,

dated 8/20/83 and 11/27/63.

-

p*

-

LEADS

DETROIT

AT DETROIT, MICHIGAN

Will follow and report activities of "Bonanul

American" and subnit reports semi-annually.

For review at Mariasy HSC-A

re L.H. Oswald J56/A43 6/20/37

Approred

Copion made:

- Bureau

(100-264688) (RH)

-

G-2,

Detroit (BN)

OHI,

Chicago (RH)

1

osI, USAF,

Dayton,

Ohio (RH)

- Hashington Field

(100-19414)

(Info)

(RM)

2 - Detroit (100-9178)

Special Agent

In Charge

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 Sofa

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X 41(6/

576) 74197

Do not write in spaces bolom

116. 544688-505

14 JAN 29 1964

EX-M4

Copy to: CHA/STATE/RAO (is)

ONI/O:

A031

2/22

chesttied

Date 21y/

RIDNGAT.

(JFK

RESEA

proparly of FBI - This raport ta locond to you by the PBl, ond seither it nor lta conlenti

# u.8.00v

INTIMO, OTTICEI IRRA. O BRAYBO

CONFIDENTIAN

NN 46096

Docid: 32176263

Page 2

REC-9

10.

---

## Page 3

y..

DE 100-9178

CONFIDENTIAL

ADMINISTRATIVE

Copies of this report are being designated for

G-2, ONI and OSI because of previous interest shown by

these agencies regarding "Romanul American"

Informatin copy being designated for Washington

Field Office inasmuch

as the newspaper is translated

by that division.

Translation of articles from "Romanul American"

set out in this report were made by SA ROBERT EVANS,

SA KENNETH P. WHITESPUNNER, JR., and SA WARREN L. ROWLANDS.

Detroit letter to Bureau, dated November 27,

1963, requested the Washington Fleld Office to continue

reviewing "Romanul American" and transisting pertinent

portions thereof and furnishing them to Detroit. Quarterly

justification letters

will continue to be submitted by

Detroit.

This report is classified confidential inasmuch

data reported fron DE T-1 through DE T-4 could reasonably

result in the identification of confidential informants of

continuing value. and compromise their effectiveness thereof

and could adversely affect the nation's security..: by

The following sources, who are familiar with

some phases o1. humanian activities in the Detroit area,

were contacted during Decenber, 1963, and January, 1964,

with negative results:

OTHER 4

The following confidential informants were

contacted for current information regarding captioned

newspaper, during January, 1964, with negative results:

DE 515-S, DE 683-S, DE 550-S,

DE 639-S,

DE 662-S, DE 251-S,

DE 600-S,: DE 647-S, DE 800-PSI

B

Cover

Page

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 46096 DocId: 32176263

Page 3

---

## Page 4

• .

CONFIDENTIALI

• DE 100-9178

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

DE T-I IS CSDE 794-5

Location

This report, page 2

134-492

Characterization of HARRY

DOMNARIU, aka.

Characterization of MARIA MILA

Characterization of NICK KISH

DE T-3. 15 DE 639-S

DE I-4. is Mr. H. G.

HALLIDAY, Auditor,

Bank of the Commonwealth,

Detroit, Michigan

(By Request)

C*

Cover

Page

CONFIDENTIAL

N# 46096

Docid: 32176263

Page 4

---

## Page 5

10. si (130n.0-29-000

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of

Dates

File Numbers

Title:

1

- G-2, Detroit (Registered)

1

- ONI, Chicago (Registered)

1 - OSI, USAF, Dayton, Ohio (Registered)

SA JOHN I. KING

апалку 23, 1964

100-9178

"ROMANUL, AMBRICAN"

office Dotrolt, Michigar

Burenu. File No: 100-264688

Characten

Synopala:

INTERNAL SECUBITY - RU

RA roported

to be pro-Communist Rumanian langusge newspaper which

lauds the Rumanian People's Republic; adheres to the

CP line, and formerly constituted the offlotal organ

of the Rumanian Section of the International Horkers

Order (INO). Information regarding offioers and objoctives

set out.

Bank account activities regarding BAPA and

RA from 7/63 through 12/63 set forth.

Sources. contacted

but do not possess any additional information.

-

DETAILS:

A. Description

The "Romanul American" ("RA") continues to

maintain offices at 2144 East Grand Boulevard, Detrolt

11, Michigan, and is owned and published weekly by

the Romanian-American Publishing Association, Inc.

(RAPA) at this address.

A characterization of the RA is 019

contained in the appendix hereto.

CO...

Hia

of any kind. It is the property of the Fal, cid la a loco la

not to be distributed outside your agenty.

9803 RODEAT

This document contalas nellher recommendations not/con

i and or its coptenti

NN 46096

DocId: 32176263

Page

5

---

## Page 6

DE 100-9178

Nationality Groups Section (NGS),

Michigan District, CP (MDCP) •

DE T-3 stated that he knows MARIA

MILA to have been a member during

September, 1961, and that since that

time he has not

received any infor-

mation indicating MARIA MILA had been

expelled or resigned from the CP.

3) JOHN DONNARIU, Dirèctor "Rumanul AMERIAN'

172)8 Dequindre

Detroit 12,

Michigan

DE T-2, on July 17, 1962,,

advised

JOHN DOMNARIU, aKA. JOHN DOMNARIN

was a member of the Rúmanian Club,

MDCP, and had attended a meeting of

the Polish-American CP Club held

July 10, 1962, at 2632 Gleadale,

Detroit.

4)

NiCK/KISH, Director

"Romanal

AMERICIN

17338_Marx,

Detroit 3, Michigar

DE-T-3, on January 14, 1964, advised

that he knew NICK KISH to have been a

member of the Rumanian CP Club within'.

the NGS, MDCP, during September, 1961,

and that since that time he has not

received any information indicating

NICK KISH had been expelled or resigned

from the CP.

On January 19, 1964, DE T-2 advised that, HARRY

XPAINARU continues to. be

employed by the RAPA and is

considered to be one of the chief employees of the "RA".

MkA

DE T-2 on September 24, 1963, advised

HARRY FAINARU was a member of the

MDCP •

made

This membership is based on statements

by FAINARU relating to membership on his part.

3

NN 46096

Docid: 32176263

Page 6

---

