# docid-32329475

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90086-10132

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 87-76541-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

OT.

TO: OT

TITLE :

DATE: 09/13/1964

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

Restricted

JOSEPH STEIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT; ENCLOSURE

v9.1

DocId: 32329475

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-Radmassed under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2123, Hote).

DATES C1111-2017

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

REV. 15-2-63

OTHER FILE REFERENCES:

*IVISION

"H""

then

3-DIVISION

SYDNEY

RE:

SAMP FILE REFERENCES:

64H-290-35.

DETACHMENT

#64=5-70.

Sydney G.I. SECTION.

#64-5-8°

DATE

September 13th., '640

Joseph Y. STEIN;

Leonard B. STALLMAN;

DBA First National Mortgage Company,

Chicago, Illinois.

10 Sept. '64•

1o

Reference p.C.ro, Mr. Joseph John KHATTAR was inter

viewed and the following information obtained which pertains to

this enquiry.

KHATTAR'S REALTIES LTD+, 463 Prince Ste, Sydney,

N.S.,

is a firm composed of three brothers, namely = Joseph J.

KHATTAR (President), Simon J. KHATTAR, Q.C., and George KHATTAR.

It is mainly involved in the real estate and mortgage brokerage

business.

The mortgage brokerage end is the sele concern of

Joseph J. KHATTAR,

who operates on the basis of a "standby fee"

plus a percentage (usually 3) if he locates a favorable mortgage

loan for his olients.

3.

During the summer of 1963 Khattarts Realties Ltd.

learned that the Joyland Shopping Center,

U.S.A.,

Was we for sale and them enterto Realties a

tempted to purchase same on its own behalf.

KHATTAR (refering

to

Joseph John KHATTAR) was contacted by Roy BROWN and Leo COLE

of Roy BROWN and Associates, 20026 Greenfield, Detroit, Michigan,

who were handling the sale;

and a price of $1,275,000 was agreed

In attempting to raise this amount of money KHATAR con*

tacted one Gerald R. SITTSER Of H.A.S. Corp. (actual name of the

firm could not be determined), 100 B. Waters Building, Grand

Rapids, Michigan, who in turn

advised KHATTAR that he

had found

DocId: 32329475

Mr. Joseph Y. STEIN of First National Mortgage Company entered

the picture and requested a $5,000 retainer from KHATTAR on the

understanding that his firm would raise the $1,275,000 in sixty

days for the purchase of Joyland Shopping Center.

The retainer

in form of a cheque was paid in escrow to Roy H. BROWN and G.I.

SITTER rather then First National Mortgage.

(This action was

taken on the instructions of Simon J. KHATTAR, who acts as the

logal adviser for Khattar's Realties). During the course of the

sixty days period, STEIN made a trip to Sydney where he met the

directors of Superior Concrete Products, Sydney, N.S., (who em-

STEIN told the directors

Concrete but wanted a $7,500 retainer before any effort was made

in this regard. On behalf of Superior Concrete, Simon J. KHATTAR

turned down STEIN'S offer unless he (STEIN) could produce a legal

registered commitment from a bonafide lender in the U.S.A. that

the money was available, only then would Superior Concrete pay

the $7,500 retainer.

It should be noted that simon J. KHATTAR

was using. the Joyland Shopping Center

Page 2 ,

LETCERCERES

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44' USC 2107 hote).

RDATE3311,11-2077

CONTINUATION C-237

REV. 15-2-63

RE:

PAGE

DIV. FE NO:

(2) c

6ln-290-35.

(CONTINUED FROM PAGE ONE) :

JOYTAND SHOPPING CITER mortgage

a lover agoinst STEIN and the loan required by Superior Concrete.

However,

the directors of superior Concrete were aware of this

and agrood to the torms sot by thoir Counsel)e It was at this

meeting, which was "also attended by Josoph J. THATYAR, that

SCHIN first mentioned his firm alroady had a comnitment for the

Joyland Shopping Center and therefore Superior Concrote should

hot object to the $7,500 retainer:

Simon J, KHATTAR refused

STEIN'S reguest; advising he wishedto soo the commitment in

writing before ho would agree to the Superior Concrote retainer,

shich incidentally, was never paid because First National could

not produco a bonafide lenderfor the doyland Shopping Center

commitment.

In January, 1964, Khattan e Realties engaged one

Fred J. POTVIN, Attorney and Coumellor, laß Buhl Bullding,

Datrolt, Michigang

(Telephone No: Woodward 5-05lh), to carry

out the

actual purchase of the Joyland Shorping Center, and this

sub joct is Semiliar with the contreet dealinge betwoon Khatter?

Realties,

First National Mortgage Company, Roy BROWN, Leo T

coLE, and Josoph Y. STEIN.

According to KHATYAR it pas. POTVIN

who endorced the 85,000 choque, on bohats of Khatte's Roalties

over to SUSIN

5.0

The P.B I, cornespondence edvlees thet KHATTAR

suggosted he bo paid

a commission on the mortgage loan to be

made to

KHANTARIS REAITIOS by Pirst Mational.

KEANTAR admitted

ho ald meke this auggestion and stated he told sirisnt thet First

National should pay him 50% of the "mortgage interost fee"

cauge of the mount of money involved and the fact that Khaster'g

Realties was in the seme type of buginess

as Firat Mational

KRATTAR advised he never expected to have the firm in question

agree to such a request.

KHANDAR

also mentioned that STEN ap-

peared to be at the head of first National and thereforo he at-

terpted to deal directly with this individual rather then

dooling with SITSER who was somewhat reluctant to carry out

Whattarts Realties interests at the rate reguosted of him.

In low of the above, KRATPAR advised that then the

to be repaid in-(19) yours at o interent

and was told by Leonard

STALEMAN

(aloo employed by Pirst waclonel) that the firm aid nor

have the commitment in question and therefore could not give

KRATTAR the money.

This occurred only a short time after STALLMAN

had apoken personally to Roy BROWN and KHATYAR in the Chicago

office of First Nationale Chat the firm had the required commitment

In writing fren a responsible londer but he (STALIMAN) required

a few days to fornelise the agreement and present it to KHATTAR

and BROWN. When these mon requested to see the ectual commitment,

(CORVD ON PACE. CHRIS

DocId: 32329475

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (447 USC 2107 Note).

DW7583111-14-2017

* CONTINUATION C-237

REV. 15-2-63

RE:

DiV • F12, No:

64E-290-35€

PAGE

(3) •

(CONTINUED FROM PAGE TWO:

7°

Since the above Khattar's Realties Counsel, Fred

J. POTVIN, instituted action to regain the $5,000 retainer from

First National, which was returned to the Khattar firm in

June, 1964, and presently another action regarding the payment

coss of being entered against First National by

of legal read, unnecessary expenses and damaged shattarla

Is in the pro-

Realties®

KHATTAR was questioned regarding Felix ALDERISIO,

but maintained he never met or had any dealings with this in-

dividual®

9.

Attached with this report

are photostat copies of

correspondence between Khattar's Realties and First National,

which maybe of assistance to the F.B.I. in their Investigation.

Unless instructed to the contrary, file will be considered

closed at this point.

10.

CONCLUDED HERE:

Cst.

(G. Timko) #18798.

Temp. I/C Sydney G.I. SECTION.

HQ. File No, 64HQ-290-H-8

The Commissioner,

R. C. Mo Police,

Ottawa, Ontario,

FORWARDED, with attachments

referred to, being

further to my A-151-1 dated Auge: 24, 1964.

2.

No copies elsewhere.

30

CONCLUDED.

Halifax,

21-9-64

Encls.

N

So

(L.J.C. Watson), Supto,

In Charge, C.I.B.

-DocId: 32329475

Page

---

