# docid-32197152

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10267-10493

RECORD_SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-3-7725

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NI 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

DATE:

11/26/1963

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT:

LHO, POST-RP, POLIT AND SUBV ACT, CP, FPCC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

03/12/1996

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 54463

DooId: 32197152

Page 1

---

## Page 2

fere

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INT

10733

V. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

NOV 2 6 196

TELE

9831

URGENT 11-26-63

7-00

PM DE

TO

DIRECTOR

-7-

AND SAC BALTIMORE

DALLAS

AND

Bir. Tolson.

Me. Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

19,

Mr.

lize Delgach

Mn, Evar

Vir

Mr.

NEW ORLEAN

Taval

Mr. Trotte

Tele. Room

Miss. Bolmes

Wiee Gardy-

FXCEPR

COSTA

ASSIFIED

HERWISE.

FROM

SAC NEW YORK

DEC!

• 09

OCPUSA,

IS- C, ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY.

IY THREE NINE ZERO THREE-S

ELEVEN TWENTY SIX INSTANT, CONFERRE

WITH GU.

HALL, CPUSA GENERAL SECRETARY,

IN ROOM SEVEN ZERO

SEVEN,

vicarisin

CHELSEA HOTEL, NYC. HALL STATED HE WOULD NOT VISIT CPUSA HEADQUARTERS

DURING THE PRESENT WEEK FOR " SECURITY REASONS". HE STATED FURTHER THAT

HE FELT THERE WILL BE AN ULTRA RIGHT ATTACK AGAINST THE CP IN VIEW OF

THE ALLEGED INVOLVEMENT OF LEE OSWALD WITH THE

COMMITTEE

FAIR

• PLAY FOR CUBA

INFOR

IS

HEREIN

WHERE

IRVIN

C.P LeadeR

SHORTLY AFTER THE INFORMANT MET WITH HALL

JOHNSON

AND

OTASH ARRIVED AT THE ROOM WITH TWO COPIES OF THE

WORLD

TELEGRAM AND SUNY FOR THIS DATE. BOTH WERE IN AN EXCITED STATE. XERX

N. Y

THE " WORLD TELEGRAM " ARTICLE,

ACCORDING TO THE INFORMANT,

INDICATED THAT THE DALLAS, TEXAS, PD, HAD LEAKED THE FACT THATY

ANONG OSWALD-S PERSONAL EFFECTS WERE SOME LETTERS ON CPUSA SIATIOMERYO

EALING WITH HOW HE SHOULD PROCEED IN HIS ACTIVITIES IN THE FPCC AND

THE INFORMANT STATED

HOW TO HANDL

NOISY NEIGHBORS"• ACCORDING TO

THE

INFORMANT,

IT WAS APPARENT THAT JOHNSON HAD NOT REVEALED THE FACT THAT

HE HAD CORRESPONDED WITH OSWALR N

THEN TOLD HALL THA

THERE WERE

THREE LETTERS

TERS FROM OSALS VALIANIE HAD ANSUERED.

100-3-0

HẾ

REVI

ST-10

RECALLED ONE DATED

UGUST TWENTY EIGHT LAST

-IZABETH GURELY

LYNN AND ONE TO HIMSEL

HE, ON

MATHEWCENE SURENES 15924

4/3331

SEPTEMBER ONE LAST. HE INDICATED THAT THERE APPARENTLY WA

13

5

DEC

SEC 16 1963

WW 544 GORBOLINELOYELASAGUORD SHD BE

CONFERRED

Lur

---

