# docid-32297506

## Page 1

Released under the Fohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1997 744 05C 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10219-10282

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3267-254

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

07/16/1962

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

JRO, ASSOC, FRIARS CLUB, GAMBLING ACT, DRINKING,

TELCAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32297506 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIE

V. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTEE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUL 1 7 1962

TELETYPE 1

Vr, L'olson

Mr. Belmont

Mt. Mohr_

Mr. Callahan.

Mr.

Conrad.

Mr.

DeLoadi

Mr.

Evans.

Mr.

Malone

Mr.

Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan-

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter-

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Misg Gandy

URGENET

7/16/629-34

PM

AH

TO DIRECTOR, FBI

92-3267

FROM SAC, LOS ANGELES 92-1130

1P

stiffelt

JOHN ROSELLI, AKA. AR.

LA FOUR TWO SIX EIGHT DASH C ADVISED TODAY THAT

ON SEVEN THIRTEEN LAST ROSSELLI APPEARED AT FRIAR-S CLUB,

BEVERLY HILLS, CALIFORNIA, ABOUT THREE PM WITH MAN NAMED JOE

WHOSE DESCRIPTION FITS THAT OF JOSEPH BREEN, JR., AND ANOTHER

UNKNOWN MAN. ROSSELLI SPENT NEXT SEVERAL HOURS PLAYING GIN

RUMMY AND DRINKING. INFORMANT ADVISED ROSSELLI LAUGHING AND

SMILING AND APPEARED IN JOVIAL MOOD IN CONTRAST TO USUAL GLUM

ATTITUDE.

ROSSELLI WAS PAGED AND TOOK TELEPHONE CALL ABOUT

SEVEN PM AND THEREAFTER LEFT FRIAR-S CLUB. "HE WAS OVERHEARD

STATING HE HAD TO MEET A FELLOW.

AUSA ROBERT HINERFELD ADVISED TODAY THAT HE HAS

RECEIVED ONLY ONE STATUS REPORT FROM IRS ON ROSSELLI INVESTIGATION.

THIS REPORT WAS FOR MONTH OF APRIL AND CONTAINED NO PERTINENT

INFORMATION.

ACK AND HOLD PLS

12-38 AM 00 -BAN

HFL

REC: 65

92-3267=254

· 100

11 JUL 1'7 1962

CC1541

DocId: 32297506 Page 2

---

