# docid-32570531

## Page 1

S_ (Rjiv. 12-13-56)

Released under the John F.

Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 144 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:NU

54464 Date: 10-11-2017

FBI

Date:

August 13, 1963

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (2-1821)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (2-353) (P)

RE :

VICTOR DOMINADOR ESPINOSA HERNANDEZ;

ET AL

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

(00: MIAMI)

Rerep SA WILLIAM MAYO DREW, JR., Miami, dated 8/8/63,

and Miami LHM dated 7/24/63.

Set forth below are pertinent results of check of

long distance telephone calls of telephone of MICHAEL J.

MC LANEY; MIGUEL ALVAREZ and SAM BENTON.

New Orleans identify subscribers to all telephone

numbers listed in that division.

New York is requested to ascertain identities

of

subscribers to WO 7-6001 and WO 7-2746, Rye, N. Y. It is

possible that these are telephones used by MICHAEL J. MC LANEY,

Miami PCI, who may be involved in this matter.

If this proves

to be true, New York is requested to determine if MC LANEY is

presently in Rye, N. Y., and if so to interview him regarding

his knowledge and participation in this matter.

- Bureau (AM-RM)

2 - New York (Encs-2) (AM-RMSEG-45

2

• New Orleans (2-118)

(AM-RM)

2

• Springfield (AM-RM)

2

• Miami

2-1821141

WMD: 887 ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

(11)

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

• AUG 16 1963

& • WHATE "

BY

AUG 2 21963

Approved:

WB

spri

Special Agent.

In Charge

Sent

Per

HH 54464 DooId:32570531 Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 2-353

One copy of rerep and LHM dated 7/24/63, are enclosed

for New York for their use in connection with this interview.

Set forth results in signed statement or FD-302. Review of Miami

files reflects MC LANEY operates a sales promotional office at

515 Madison Ave., name not known. This and additional background

info re MC LANEY

set out in Miami letter dated 6/7/63, one copy

COOPERA TOOK, "

captioned "MICHAEL J. MC LANEY, FOREIGN POLICE

Springfield is requested to identify subscriber to

DI 4-3195 at Collinsville, Ill., and interview that person re

his knowledge of this matter and VICTOR ESPINOSA.

Springfield also requested to identify MARGARET JURKEY

and attempt to determine if she is in any way connected with

VICTOR ESPINOSA or MICHAEL J. MC LANEY. Possibility exists that

VICTOR ESPINOSA called JURKEY from MC LANEY's residence. If no

reason exists to preclude it, she should be interviewed re her

knowledge of this matter.

• Miami will identify

subscribers to Florida numbers

listed below.

For information of Bureau, interviews with GONZALO

HERRERA and JOSE BASULTO LEON did not produce any pertinent

information and both had little or no knowledge of this plan.

Results of phone check as follows:

Date

7/12/63

7/14/63

From NE 5-7342 subscribed to by MIGUEL ALVAREZ JIMENEZ:

To

• Number

Collinsville, Ill. DI 4-3195

New Orleans, La.

529-7111

Other Data

(VICTOR)

(SAM, Rm 1235)

• 2 =

• NH 54464 DooId:32570531 Page 2

---

