# docid-32202184

## Page 1

Date: 09/07/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10295

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Masassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NU 53244 Date:

26-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO : ELDER, WALTER

TITLE :

RE: CHURCH COMMITTEE REQUEST

DATE : 00/14/76

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

CHURCH COMMITTEE REQUEST FOR DOCUMENTS

MEXICO CITY

JMWAVE

DIR

OSWALD, LEE HARVEY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/07/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 53244 DocId:32202184 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993 > 1997

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

S SANITIZED

MELIORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION:

14- для ун

The Revlew Stats Se

Mr. Walter Elder

VIA:

SA/DDO

SUBJECT:

SSC Request

REFERENCE:

RS 76-0083/A (14 January 1976)

10 February 1976

CIA HAS NO OBJECTTON TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

AS DOCUMCI

ELEASE 1519

REC

10)11

1. Re question number 1 of reference:

Attachment "A" contains

the names of Agency personnel who were in ilexico City, Mexico, during

the period 1 September 1963 through 31 December 1963 and wno are still

on duty. Attachment "B" contains the names of Agency personnel who

were in ilexico City during this same period but are now retired or no

longer on duty.

It is understood that these attachments will be

retained in the Headquarters building for use by the Committee Staff.

2. Re question number 3(a) of reference: For your background,

the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) was a Cuban student

exile entity founded in September 1960 as an anti-Communist revolutionary

organization dedicated to the overthrow of the Castro regime. The parent

organization of the DRE was the Directorio Revolucionario (DR), a revolu-

tionary organization of Cuban students opposed to the Batista

which actively joined the Castro forces by organizing a guerrilla move-

ment which contributed

greatly to the collapse of the Batista regime.

The Castro government, themselves of student origin, recognized the DR

power and by-passed them politically by forming the new regime without

their participation. The original DR became Communist controlled and

directed.

While the Agency had no role in the founding, the DRE was an

entity used by the CIA as a unilateral asset in pursuing U.s. policy

objectives. CIA support to the DRE ceased on 30 September 1966 and formally

terminated

on 1 January 1967. At that time DRE files were reviewed and

material dealing with CIA support and operations were either destroyed

or turned over the JMWAVE Station.

The DRE was expected to continue as

an organizational entity and continue its activities independent of CIA.

The DRE files of both Station MWAVE and ileadquarters that are

available have been reviewed and Lee Harvey Oswald's name does not appear

in these files.

WAVE cable 8049 (in 66782) of 22 November 1963, states

in the third sentence, "according AMSPElbyfiles, Oswald", undoubtedly

refers to the DRE files maintained in the DRE office in Miami, Florida.

SEGRE

E2 LIPDET

-CL BY 009560

HH 53244

DooId: 32202184

Page 2

[..

---

## Page 3

SECRET

These entity files were independent of the JMWAVE Station files. Had

Station JIVAVE referred to its files in WAVE 8049 the cable would have

been worded, "according(AASPELL Station files." The file of AMHiNiS

a former executive of the DRE, has also been reviewed and no. reference

to Oswald was found.

The file number which appears on WAVE 8049 is no

longer in use and the contents of this former file were transferred

into Oswald's and other 201 files by the CI Staff.

A tape of the radio

debate cited in WAVE 8049 is included in the Oswald 201 held by the CI

4.

Re question number 3(b) of

reference: We have been unable to

determine if Station JMWAVE was instructed to review its files for

information on Oswald. For many years the CI Staff has been the focal

point for the collation of any and all information concerning Oswald

and if the J'WAVE files on any Cuban groups contained information on

Oswald

such information

should be reflected in Oswald 201 file.

Rienard-So. Sampson

Chief

Latin America Division

Attachments:

A & B as

stated

REU

NOR:

FED A 1 1976

die anak

2

SEGRET

ИН. 53244

інА ліс

DocId:32202184

Page

3

---

