# docid-32289421

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10201-10197

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-2356

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LEGAT, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLÉ :

DATE: 03/24/1972

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

SGI, TRA, RES, TELCAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289421

Page 1

233

---

## Page 2

leased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection

DATE: 11-140PRONAL FORM NO. 10

1962 EDITION

HAY FPAR EDI COR 101-11.6

UNITED STATES.,

#VERNMENT

Memorandum

(:: NF.IA

ENTI

TO

SET REVERSE

SIDE FO

'CLAS

PATERLOR

3-242722

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

DECEASS

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY

167854

(92-13) (P)

SUBJECT:

MEI ATE

SAMUEL

ARK

Ai. GTANCANA aka

exempt from os, bat

Date or Declasstriction

pe.?....

Declassify

Ro Moxico City Lotter, 2-21-73 CAN HB

On 2-24-72,

CS MEX 287 advised that according

to reports of mutual friends, subject is out of Mexiço

on an extended vacation, specific itinerary unknown. level

As of 3-23-72,1

has returned to Mexico,

MEX 287 advised that subject

although he

has not been in contact

with him.

Reportedly,

sub.

has some house guests, not

further identified.

Stua

GENIVANOO

ALT. INTO

HEREIN

Ausseider

Source anticipated

that he

with subject in the near future.(

you?

be in contact

On 2-20-72, the following information was received

from GERALD W. SCHULTZ (PROTECT), Explanada 1305g

Mexiço

City, the former owner of the house Villa San

Cristobal

Las Quintas in Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico:

photograph but Noreman os 17 sAM bbedtuA, enterise by

luxurious house known as the Quinta San Cristobal in the

Las Quintas area in Cuernavaca, Mexico. He bought this

house for cash, the sum being paid by a check against a

Mexican bank, signed by his attorney, JORGE CASTILLO.

• He

Some of the servants were retained and he is believed to

have kept the same telephone, number 2-25-00.

The house

was purchased in the name afa c

company called&San Cristobal

apparently formed for thisrour pose

Americans

buying property tin Mexico.

(amon practice for T1

17 106'

Bureau n' e

RECE

10.3

371-235458Lba

2864.15

(1 - Foreign

FES AND FIELD

QUEING SLIPS

BOUTMA

Mexico

City,

СВІ ОТЕТС

ON

1972

CATI Y

ВИТІ Н

5010-108-02

RSC:jj1

AP(6)

6198рcн4

CONFIDEN

KlY B U.S. Saving Bond Regularly on the Payroll Me

AND FILED

ASIATV

SLIP(S

DocId: 32289421

Page 2

---

## Page 3

eleased under the John F. Kenredy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USE 2107 Hotel:

DATE :

11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

He was put in contact with the owner of the

house by a woman known as CANTAMAYA, a well known Cuerna-

vaca resident, widow of one of the New

York Gimbels, and

also by RUTH DORNBERG, a local realtor

Neighbors of the subject in Las Quintas are aware

of his identity in a general way but have commented

that

he lives a very quiet life and is frequently gone.

The house is reportedl

currently for sale but at

a fantastically high price. (4)

Neighbors advise that subject, reportedly makes

frequent trips to the United States (V

On 2-20-72, there was an anonymous telephone call

inquiring about the status of the Villa San Cristobal and

whether it was for sale.

The caller claimed that the title

to the house had never been transferred from the name of

the former owner. (Cl

LEADS

MEXICO CITY

AT MEXICO, D. F.

Will continue to

maintain contact withCs MEX 28, (C

Will consider establishing contact

with

WILLIAM

IRETON, a neighbor of subject in Las Quintas.

CONFI

i opta..!

DocId: 32289421 Page 3

---

