# docid-32291831

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10208-10107

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-2052

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/06/1967

3

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ASSOC, MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS, WHEREABOUTS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

w9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32291831 Page 1

307

---

## Page 2

Transmit the following in

Via

aank

AIRTEL

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

F BI

Date: 7/6/67

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

SAC, NEW YORK (92-793) (RUC)

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka

(00: Chicago)

ReNyairtel, 6/26/67, and NYtel, 4/18/67. U

Since date ofdreairtel, the NYO has made numerous

efforts to contact PHYLLIS MC, GUIRE with negative results.

Direct contacts at MO GUIRE's residence have resulted

in contact with her maid, who on each occasion has

stated she is unaware of

'MC GUIRE's whereabouts and

date of return to the NY area. 4

on 7/5/67, spot checks were conducted at

MC GUIRE's residence at various intervals during the day

with negative results. U

on 7/6/67, THOMAS A. GRAY, building manager,

525 Park Avenue, NY, NY, MC GUIRE's residence, and

ARDEN YOUNG and

LAWRENCE MANNING, elevator operators

at that address, were interviewed. y

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED,

HEREN

+ CO

ivanill

3

2

1

Bureau

-

Chicago (92-349)

Miami (Info)

Las Vegas

(Info)

New York (137-12985)

- New York

EJP: sj/j

(10)

pao wick

O2JUL A319ST

Ipproved:

Spgcial Agent in

Gharge

EX-102.

REC 3

92-3171-2052

2

JULY

1967

Sent

Per

NW 45792 DocId: 32291831 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-793

GRAY and YOUNG were unable to furnish any

information except that MC GUIRE still resides at that

address.

MANNING advised that MC GUIRE has been in and out

of the NY area dring the last two weeks.

MANNING stated

he last observed MC GUIRE and her current companion,

MIKE DAVIS, leave 525 Park Avenue, at approximately

3:30 p.m., 7/5/67.

They left this address via

chauffeured limousine lenroute to John F. Kennedy

International Airport.

MC GUIRE had ll pieces of luggage

with her upon her departure.

MANNING was unaware

Of MC GUIRE's destination or the limousine service which

took her and DAVIS to the airport. Y

Review of the file in this case reflects that

on 4/18/67, CSNY 23 advised that MC GUIRE wald be

appearing

at a fair in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, from

7/6/67 - 7/15/67. 4

on 6/29/67, l

PCI, Americar

Gutla of Varity Artists (AGUA) advised that records of

AGUA reflect that MC GUIRE will be appearing for one

week at the Diplomat Hotel, Hollywood, Florida,

The identity of PCI is to be protected.

PCI can be characterized as an individual, who as a

result of her employment, is in a position to furnish

Information relating to individuls in the entertainment

business. u

on 7/6/67, MC GUIRE's maid was again recontacted

at which time she advised that MC GUIRE had departed

from the NY area, and would be out of this area for

On each occasion the maid was

contacted, the identity of the contacting agent was made

The maid advised that she has conveyed

this message to MC GUIRE on each occasion that she has

been contacted by an SAd the NYo. y

OTHER 4

-2-

NW 45792 DocId: 32291831 Page 3

---

