# docid-32203888

## Page 1

Date: 10/07/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10120

RECORDS SERIES :

Released under the John

* Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act

of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53244 Date:

06-13-2017

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : ELDER, WALTER

TO : MILLER, WILLIAM G.

TITLE :

DOCUMENTS REQUESTED BY KAYDEN, JEFFREY RE(WILEY, CHARLES W.

DATE : 10/02/75

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

BUTLER, EDWARD SCANNELL, INFORMATION COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

'OMMENTS

SSCI Box 221, Folder 10

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

H# 53244 DocId: 32203888

Page 1

---

## Page 2

EYES ONLY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

813÷7

Resear

Record Number 157-10011-10120

Review Staff:

2 October 1975

75-3097

Mr. William

G. Miller

Staff Director

Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations

with Respect to Intelligence

Activities

Room G- 308

Dirksen Senate Office Building

Washington, D.C. 20510

Dear Mr. Miller:

In response to Jeffrey Kayden's verbal request of

29 September to John Reeves of the Office of Security,

enclosed are coples of documents requested by Mr. Kay-

den concerning Charless

Insofar as is known at this time,

the enclosed docu-

ments

were voluntarily furnished by Mr. Wiley, were not

solicited nor disseminated and no action was undertaken

based upon the information therein.

In light of the in-

formation contained in the documents, we ask that

they

be carefully and prudently handled to protect the indi-

Sincerely,

t 6:

Review

Staff

Attachement: a/s

!..T

FROM

= 1975

CIA

CIA HAS NO OR SECTION TR

DECLASSES

RELEASE CI

OSSUMENT

AS SAMPLED

14 Dec 93

EYES ONLY

53244

DooId: 32203888

Page 2

---

## Page 3

112/610

Ro: Edward Scamell Butler.

On 26 Oct. 1966, Butler was in lew York City re: a documentary

film that he has produced about detro (comparing him tofitler).

It was shown on a local IV station.

Butler claims that the film is based on insida material and

includes Cuban newsreel film that he was able to obtain through

devious means.

The

production was tinanced by Patrick J. Frawley,

through Technicolor (?). Butler is working as a consultant for

Frawley and has an office (at Schick Co.?) in Los Angeles -

567 Comstock

Ave.

Phone: 271-1295.

she an odd the no de

Butler said that he's trying to get Frawley to consolidate

his anti-communist activities. There was the strong Implication

that this might cut into Frawlsy"s support of the American

Security Council. Butler clains to be very close to Frawley.

In New York, Butler was with Loe Eawards, a public relationg

man for Young Americans for Freedon and other conservative

causes, talking over possible joint projects in the future.

Butler Is the head of the Information Council of the Americas

¡cal, 4710 Degados Sto, Now Orleno, La. Phone: Mary D0re.

In 1963, just a few weeks before Fresident Kennedy's assassination,

Butler had a radio debate against Leo Harvey Oswald. It was

taped,

and Butlor has made a record of it

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

1 Dec 93

) FROM

UCT 2 1875

CIA

HN 53244

DocId: 32203888

Page 3

---

