# docid-32304318

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10285-10330

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 62-107996-12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, BU

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/21/1964

6

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/20/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T, LHM

y0,1

DocId: 32304318

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11-U5e, 2102 Hate).

DATE: 11-14-2017

8/28/64

Airtel

REC- 48

MAILED 7

AUG 2 8 1964

COMM-FB!

To: SAC, Buffalo (92-100 Sub I-4)

From: Director, TBI

REED SUTTON WILSON

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

JUNE

Reurairtel 8/21/64.

There are enclosed herewith two copies of

Identification Record for Reed Sutton Wilson,

FBI number

360 244 A. A copy of this record may

• be made

avallable

to inspector Thurston of the Metropolitan Toronto Police

Department on a confidential basis.

As you recommend,

you may also furnish orally to Inspector Thurston on a

confidential basis the substance of the information

appearing in Bureau alstel to a11 SACe dated April 3, 1963 quaRa

The person referred to n reairtel as fred osta.

1s quite likely identical with Frecretash, a private detective

who in 1957 had an office in Suite 105, 1342 North Laurel

Ny

Avenue, Hollywood, California. On the basis of iniormation

furnished, Morton Farber could not be identified in Builles.

Enc. (2)

7

- Los Angeles

New York

1 - J. D. Donohue

(815 RB)

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr .

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

• Holu

TOLD O SE

Gand

(7)

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

1964v

MAIL ROOM

8/2/28 DJC: ma

Serial

12

re: Fred O tach 7

лGCA п3.7/26/18 20970313

(SED BORATE 102-11(ai0)

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32304318 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

Transmit the following in

Via

AIR-TEL

FBI.

Date:

8/21/64

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL - REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

JUNE

SAC,

BUFFALO (92-100-Sub 1-4)

REED SUTTON WILSON

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

6201079465

Re Bureau airtel to all SACs dated 4/3/63.

Forwarded herewith for the Bureau are five copies

of a Letterhead Memorandum

captioned "REED SUTTON WILSON.

FRED OSTACH, MORTON FARBER" reflecting information furnished

tO SA JAMES P. MO MAHON of this office on a confidential

basis by Inspector HERBERT THURSTON, Morality Bureau,

Metropolitan Toronto Police Department (MTPĐ) •

It is noted that in furnishing this information,

Inspector THURSTON did not identify the stock brokerage

firm involved nor did he furnish the name of the stock

promoter who employed WILSON in Toronto. Inspector THURSTON

explained that the nature of this operation was so delicate

that if the identities of the stock brokerage firm and the

stock promoter became a matter of public knowledge, the effect

upon the Toronto Stock Exchange could be disastrous and for

that reason the Toronto Police Department was not even recording

those names in their own files.

Inspector THURSTON also stated that no criminal

or other charges were anticipated in this case since the victim

of the technical installations did not sign a complaint for

this same reason

asthat cited above. Inspector THURSTON

Bureau (Enog

5) (AMRM)

2

Los Angeles

Enes

2) (AMIC) 48

= New York

2) (AMRM)

1

- Buffalo

JPMcM: bas

(8)

Aintil to BE, LA,Ny

62-107976-12

1964

8/ 481/64

Approved:

sit isent

er

Special Agent in Charge

DocId:32304318 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-100-Sub 1-4)

added that he was furnishing this data to the FBI principally

because of the allegation that REED has done technical work

for both the FBI and the CIA in the past, and furthermore,

because of the possibility that he and his associates

might be engaged in this or similar type activities in the

United States.

It is noted that the unverified and unevaluated

allegation that WILSON did technical work for the FBI is

not being included in this Letterhead Memorandum.

No request for investigation by either Los Angeles

or New York Is being made by the Buffalo Office, but two

copies of the Letterhead Memorandum are being furnished

herewith for each of those offices for their information

and so that they will be available in the event the Bureau

specifically instructs either or both of those offices to

conduct investigation based upon the information contained

herein.

REQUEST OF BUREAU:

Bureau authority is requested for the Buffalo Office

to furnish verbally to Inspector HERBERT THURSTON the

information set forth in Bureau airtel to all SACs dated

April 3, 1963.

In this connection it is further requested that a

copy of the identification record of REED SUTTON WILSON, FBI

No. 360244A, as well as

a copy of his photograph, if one is

available, be furnished to the Buffalo Office so

that same

may be made available to Inspector THURSTON.

62-107996-12

-2-

DocId: 32304318 Page 1

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Buffalo, New York

August

21, 1964

REED SUTTON WILSON

FRED OSTACH

MORTON FARBER

-

On August 20, 1964, Inspector HERBERT THURSTON, Head

of the Morality Bureau, Metropolitan Toronto Police Department

(MTPD), confidentially advised the Buffalo FBI Office that

his department on the previous day had recovered approximately

$7, 000.00 worth of technical equipment Including microphones,

transmitters, monitoring set, recording equipment and tapes

from an otherwise vacant

suite of offices in a downtown

Toronto office building.

Inspector THURSTON stated that investigation by

him disclosed that a Toronto securities promoter, whom he

did not identify, but whom he described as a disreputable

individual, had acknowledged during interview that the

technical equipment recovered in Toronto had been brought

there and installed at his behest.

Inspector THURSTON stated that according to this

man's story, he was promoting a particular stock issue. in

Toronto, the

underwriting of which was handled by a reputable

stock brokerage firm in Toronto whose name Inspector THURSTON

did not disclose.

The stock promoter claimed that his purpose

in obtaining this

equipment and arranging for its installation

was so that he could monitor the activities of the stock

brokerage firm, particularly conversations carried on in

their quarters not otherwise available to the public so that

he would know what action to take with regard to the buying

and selling of this particular securities issue.

Inspector THURSTON added that while he was inclined

to believe that thisstory was partially true, he believed that

the stock promoter and his associates probably would have

used any information obtained through this source for

blackmail, extortion or whatever other purposes it might have

served.

Inspector THURSTON stated that their investigation

indicated that when the stock promoter decided to embark upon

this scheme, he contacted an attorney in New York CIty named

FARBER who stays at the Madison Hotel In that city.

62-107996-12

ENCLOSURE

DocId:32304318 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notey.

DATE: 11-14-20171

REED SUTTON WILSON

FRED OSTACH

MORTON FARBER

After explaining to FARBER what his

wishes were, FARBER told

him that he would

make the necessary arrangements.

Shortly thereafter FRED OSTACH, a private detective,

who used the address 949 North Fairfax Avenue, Hollywood,

California, and who reportedly has done considerable work in

the top men at

the past for one of the top men at Warner Brothers Studios

and for the deceased Hollywood attorney JERRY EISLER, arrived

in Toronto and checked into the King Edward Hotel on July 27,

1964. He was accompanied by an individual who used the name

R. WILSON and who was called REED while in Toronto. In

checking into the King Edward Hotel, the latter individual

gave his address as 1428 North Fuller Avenue, Los Angeles

After looking over the situation, these individuals

agreed to make the necessary Installation for a fee of

$25,000 plus the cost of the technical equipment.

The office

obtained

by these individuals for the setting up of their

recording equipment was located in the same building but six

floors above the offices of the stock brokerage firm which

they planned to monitor.

Reed

— Inspector THURSTON stated that he has since

learned that the equipment reportedly cost $7,000 and was.

calis

shipped to BESON,

by Air Express under bond from

Room 391, King Edward Hotel,

Poronto Cau ada

"Los Angeles on August 11,

1964 arriving in Toronto on August 13, 1964.

picked up by WILSON at the downtown Air Express Office in

It was therearter

Toronto on August 14, 1964 and presumably was installed over Dc

the weekend of August 15-16, 1964.

Inspector THURSTON said that the shipper of this

technical equipment was W. S. Jones Company, 8961 Wonderland

Avenue, Los Angeles 46, California. He also advised that the

eventual monitoring of

the equipment was to be done by a

local Toronto criminal whose name Inspector THURSTON did not

disclose.

Inspector THURSTON stated that the investigation

indicates that after the equipment was installed and determined

to be in operating condition,

the stock promoter in Toronto

paid WILSON and OSTACH $25,000 cash at noon time on August 18,

1964 and OSTACH thereafter used part of this money to pay

62-107996-12

-2-

DocId: 32304318 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

REED SUTTON WILSON

FRED OSTACH

MORTON FARBER

the King Edward Hotel bill for himself and WILSON when they

checked out of that hotel shortly after noon on August 18,

1964.

Accoraing to Inspector THURSTON, STACH and WILSON

leparted from the Toronto Airport at 2:36

PM on August 18, 1964

both destined for New York City with OSTACH scheduled to

stay in New York while WILSON had further reservations to

Washington, D. C.

Inspector THURSTON stated that he had been told by

the stock promoter who was behind this scheme in Toronto

that he had been informed presumably by MORTON FARBER that

WILSON was one of the most accomplished sound technicians

in the United States having handled the installation of

sound equipment in the past for the Central Intelligence

Agency.

Inspector THURSTON advised that the work done by

concealed, and that the

setup found by the

Toronto Police

Department was sufficient to handle approximately eight such

installations.

62-107996-12

-3-

DocId: 32304318

Page 7

---

