# docid-32322247

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-10379-10038

62C-HQ-1029205-3745

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

HQ

TO: ITALIAN DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TITLE :

DATE:

05/11/1998

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

3

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LET

v9.1

DocId: 32322247

234

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

SECI

Dep. Dir.

Chief of

Staff_

Off. of Gen.

Counsel

Asst. Dir.

Crim. Inv.

CJIS

Canne

Into. Res.

Insp.

Lab.

National Sec.

Personnel

Training

Off. of EEOA

Off. of Public

& Cong. Afts.

Director's Office

DocId: 32322247

MAIL ROOM

Page 21

ALL BFOR

; 1998

DIMENE

MAY 1

8 8028

11. "99

Italian Defense Intelligence Agency

Dear talian Defense Intelligence Agency: I

CLASSIRED DUE:

REASON:

1."

DE..

I am writing to you about a matter that I believe to be important to the FBI and to the

United States people.

The President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act, 44 U.S.C. §2107(Supp

V 1994) (the Act) (copy enclosed) was enacted by the United States Congress and signed into law by

President George Bush on October 26, 1992. The purpose of the Act is to preserve and maintain all

United States governmental documents in one area, the National Archives and Records Administration

(Archives), for access to those individuals interested in the history surrounding the assassination of

President John F. Kennedy. The Act states that, "[a]ll government records concerning the

assassination of President John F. Kennedy should carry a presumption of immediate disclosure," and

requires all United States government agencies to find all documents related to the assassination and to .

review and release the identified documents to the maximum extent possible to the public. The FBI

has been working diligently since 1993 to fulfill our responsibilities under the Act.

The purpose of this letter is: (1) to inform you that the FBI's assassination records contain

information originating with your agency or your original documents, (2) to respectfully request that

your agency review your information for maximum disclosure to the fullest extent possible, and (3) to

explain the provisions for your request to protect your information from disclosure.

To achieve maximum disclosure of assassination records, the Act established the JFK

Assassination Records Review Board (the Board). The Board is an independent Federal agency

charged with overseeing the identification and release of records related to the assassination from the

other Federal agencies. The FBI has assured the Board of our continued dedication of cooperating

with then to met the shyectives of the Act. in that spit, the El di appreciate

CLASSIFIED SECRET IN IT'S ENTIRÊTY

+4-1029205-374

BY SPY GICLC 15(006

1 - Director

1.- Mr. Bryant

1 - Mr. R. Bucknam

1-- Mr. P. Kelley

1 - Ms. Gawley

1 - Ms. Keeley

1 - Mr. Collingwood 1 - Mr. Campbell

1- Ms. Wilkins

1 - Ms. Sifford

List of additional foreign agency addressees attached

SEC

RET

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD/KSR

09: 4-21-99

(JFK)

Bartly

RA 1144

x057/

FBI/DOJ

---

