# docid-32307826

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10293-10184

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-184

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

04/13/1961

'PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, PROPERTY, FL, ATTORNEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

Redact

01/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32307826 Page 1 .

451

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BUREAS OF MANESTiCATION

JEPARIMENT OF JUSTICE

INICATIONS SECTION

APR 1 31961

TELETYPE

URGENT 4-13-61

3-48

PM CLM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-3171/

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-349/ 4P

SAMUEL M.

¿GIANCANA, AKAO, ARO DAILY SUMMARY.

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Parsons.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Callaban

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach!

Mr. Evans

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter..

Mr. W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room_

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy.

MIAMI ADVISED INVESTIGATION THAT OFFICE TO DATE REGARDING POSSIBLE

GIANCANA PROPERTY IN FLORIDA IS AS FOLLOWS- PROPERTY HAS BEEN

IDENTIFIED AS ONE NINE ZERO TWO NOTRE DAME BOULEVARD, LAKE WORTH,

FLORIDA. PUBLIC RECORDS INDICATE THIS HOME WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN

FIFTY OR NINETEEN FIFTYONE BY IRENE ARNOLD, CHICAGO, ILL. AND LITTLE

ROCK, ARKANSAS. SOLD IN NINETEEN FIFTY SIX TO JOHN K. MC DONALD,

RIVER FOREST, ILL. IN NINETEEN FIFTYNINE MC DONALD SOLD PROPERTY

TO LESLIE I. KRUSE, FIVE TWO ZERO SIX ORTON ST., SKOKIE, ILL. IN

MID NINETEEN FIFTIES MRS. ARNOLD INDICATED ADDRESS IN CARE OF EUGENE

BERNSTEIN, SEVEN SEVEN WEST WASHINGTON ST., CHICAGO • MOST DOCUMENTS

PRELATING TO THIS PROPERTY SIGNED IN CHICAGO AND NOTARIZED BY BERN- /

STEIN, ANERA COX AND URSULA M. VIVIRITO. MC DONALD GAVE EMPLOYMENT MiG

6. 34

B /5P5R56

UNCLASSIFIED

EMPIRE COIN EXCHANGE COMPANY. KRUSE INDICATED SELF EMPLOYED IN

DASH WAY PLUMBING COMPANY CARETAKER AT PROPERTY IS JAMES

ORE AND NAME OF RICHARD BURNS AND DICK B. BURNS IS MENTIONED IN

INNECTION WITH THE PROPERTY AN* PROVEMENTS, MODEVER,

166-95 00 03

NOT FURTHER

ENTIFIED TO DATE BY MIAMI. SEA BREEZE MOTEL, PALM BEACH, FLORIDA,

2

PAGE ONE

58 APR 201967 |

"STaffeld

DocId: 32307826

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Côllection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

BUILT AND OWNED BY MAURICE B. FRANK, WHO HAS WINTER RESIDENCE ON

NOTRE DAME BOULEVARD, LAKE WORTH, TWO BLOCKS FROM INSTANT PROPERTY.

FRANK IS PERMANENT RESIDENT OF CHICAGO AND REPORTEDLY OWNS A LIQUOR •

DISTRIBUTORSHIP THIS CITY. HIS ATTORNEY IS JOHN RYAN AND IS TAX

CONSULTANT IS BENJAMIN ROSENBERG. CG SIX FOUR FIVE SEVEN DASH PC

ADVISED APRIL TWELVE LAST THAT GIANCANA PURCHASED TWO LOTS IMMEDIATELY

ACROSS THE STREET FROM THE LAKE WORTH PROPERTY AND WAS NEGOTIATING

TO PURCHASE THE NEAREST RESIDENCE TO THIS PROPERTY. GIANCANA SENT

INFORMANT TO THE OWNER OF THIS PROPERTY TO ASCERTAIN POSSIBILITIES

OF SUCH A PURCHASE AND NO DECISION. WAS REACHED. INFORMANT CONTINUED

THAT APPROXIMATELY ONE YEAR AGO GIANCANA HAD LAKE WORTH RESIDENCE

COMPLETELY REDECORATED AND REFURNISHED. FURNITURE THEN IN THE HOME

WAS QUITE GIVEN AWAY UNQUOTE. FURNITURE DEALINGS WERE MADE BY ONE

SIBILANO A FURNITURE DEALER LOCATED ON WEST BELMONT ST., CHICAGO.

Kru.

LESLIE KRUSE IS BELIEVED TO BE LESTER QUOTE KILLER KANE UNQUOTEHURSE,

MEMBER OF THE CHICAGO CRIME SYNDICATE AND PARTNER OF ROCCO FISCHETTI

AND OTHERS IN THE QUOTE BIG GAME UNQUOTE NOW LOCATED IN WILL COUNTY,

ILL. KRUSE IS CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF RALPH PIERCE AND FLED WITH PIERCE

TO MEXICO IN FALL OF NINETEEN SIXTY TO AVOID POSSIBLE SERVICE OF

SUBPOENA TO APPEAR FOR ACCARDO TAX TRIAL. HE IS THE OWNER OF THE

NU DASH WAY BEER COIL SERVICE COMPANY AND NU, DASH WAY PLUMBING COMPANY,

WHICH HAS RECENTLY BEEN MENTIONED IN CHICAGO NEWSPAPERS AS HAVING

END PAGE TWO

/ DocId: 32307826 Page 3

---

