# docid-32326716

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination Syster:

Date:

6/8/2015 •

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90056-10023

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

183-737-10

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

SF

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/28/1976

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE AMARENA

SAMMY PAXTON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32326716

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

11.36 CRev. 2-11-71)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

FBI

Date:

7/28/76

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRMAIL

(Precedence)

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (183-114)

(P)

SALVATORE AMARENA, aka;

ET AL;

RICO

00: SF

Re San Francisco nitel to Bureau, 7/16/76.

SF 8677-PC advised that while working at Sal's

son July 9, 1976, she overheard a conversation betweer

AMARENA,and JIMMY

FRATIANNO and ascertained that MICKEY

COHEN is dying.

She ascertained from the conversation that

JOE PAOLI, Owner of Paoli's Restaurant in San Francisco, is

concerned

about COHEN's illness'as COHEN has an interest in

Paoli's Restaurant in San Francisco.

PC also ascertained that HOWARD COOK of Los

Angeles is coming to San Francisco on Satutday july 10;

to see

FRATIANNO, the reason unknown.

PC ascertained that SAL AMAR

INA flew to New

Orleans,

obtained his airline ticket from an

Louisiana under the name t individual called

*JOHNSON and AMARENA

FATS, who is working for PAT COCOA.

" Source stated that

COCOA and FATS are burning a credit card under the name

E. JOHNSON and sold the airline ticket to SAL AMARENA at

half-price.

Source stated that when SAL AMARENA traveled

to New Orleans, he took hot property with him, which in-

cluded clothing, jewelry and golf

Bureau

San Francisco

REt 64/83=737-19

(1- 137-8416)

(1

137-2416)

ÍCH 40)

MCT-26 ZA JUL 30 1976

(1 -

92-271)

(FRATIANNO)

TFJ/dlw

(6)

тi-113

salN

Approved:

54 AUG 1 2457011)

Sent

_M

Per

in Charge

GPO: 1975 C - 590-992

DocId: 32326716

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SF 183-114

TFJ/ dlw

Source advised that on 7/12/76, SAL AMARENA

bought a :25 caliber automatic pistol for $25.

Source

also stated that SAL owes a $300 telephone bill.

Source

advised that FRATIANNO called SAM (LNU) and that HOWARD

COOK returned to Los Angeles from San Francisco. Source

also ascertained that Australian MURRAY REILLY is coming

to San Francisco in about nine days.

Source ascertained on July 13, 1976; that

JIMMY FRATIANNO and an unknown individual called BLACK

DANNY, have a deal going which involves the purchase of

Shi Marina had in he possession to et one y nasch

SAL AMARENA had

included a $210 silver necklace, a $110 opel necklace,

and assorted jewelry which was taken from Macy's Depart-

ment store by LEROY PARNELL, JR., also known as COOKIE.

PC advised that AMARENA also had in his possession at

the pizza parlor a stolen Sony color portable color TV

PC advised that BOBBY the Baron talked to AMARENA

this date and told him that he knows

some people that

will buy any kind of stolen diamond.

On July 14, 1976, PC stated that two Negro

males came into Sal's Pizza and wanted to sell SAL a

"handle"

The Negro males asked SAL if anyone wanted

a handle

and stated they were asking over $300 for it.

PC copied the license number of the Negro males'

which was XKK 244, a 1968 Ford. Auto registration data

reflected that California license XKK 244 for a 1968

Ford, was registered to WILLIE PRESCOTT, 1941 Mission

Street, Room 20, San Francisco, California. On July

14, E9r, PC beard that an important person was flying

New York City to meet with JIMMY FRATIANNO.

PC also ascertained that MIKE RIZATELLO was

coming into San

Francisco for a

meeting at Sal's Cafe

on July 15, 1976.

PC advised that on July 15, 1976, FRATIANNO

advised he would be traveling to Los

Angeles on July

1976. PC also advised that a meeting was held at.

Sai's Cafe on July 15, 1976, which included MARTY ALENSTEIN,

FBI Number 870 125 B, a known loan shark and sports book-

maker from Los Angeles, MIKE RIZATELLO and JIMMY FRATIANNO.

PC overheard somthing about a two million dollar finders fee

being mentioned.

2

DocId: 32326716 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SF 183-114

TFJ/ diw

On July 15, 1976 FRATIANNO called MARTIN (LNU)

at the Tropicana in Las

Vegas,

RAY (LNU) probably in

Philadelphia, and spoke in Italian, SAM CONTI in San

Francisco and RUDY THAM in San Francisco.

PC advised that on Friday, July 16, 1976, she

quit her job at Sal's Pizza as SAL AMARENA was getting

unbearable to work for. PC stated that she thinks

FRATIANNO will now be spending much more time at her

apartment since she has terminated her employment with

SAL AMARENA.

PC advised that on July 17, 1976, JIMMY

'RATIANNO called her from Reno, Nevada, and said he hac

been having meetings on Friday and Saturday but did not

disclose the purpose of those meetings.

On Sunday, July 18, 1976, FRATIANNO came to

PC's apartment and stayed the night, leaving on Monday,

July 19, 1976. Electronic surveillance was instituted

the results of which are given at the end of this airtel.

PC advised that on July 20, 1976, FRATIANNO

called her and stated that MURRAY from Australia was

in town and he also expected HOWARD COOK from Los Angeles

to arrive.

PC. also advised that FRATIANNO plans to

travel to Los Angeles on Sunday, the 25th of July, or

Monday, July 26, 1976. PC advised that her mother in-

tends to visit her this coming week and she probably

will not see much of FRATIANNO, however, JIMMY has told

her that he would call her frequently during this coming

week.

As previously stated, FRATIANNO came to PC's

apartment the evening of July 18, 1976, and Left the

morning of July 19, 1976.

The following are highlights

of information obtained through electronic surveillance,

which was instituted while FRATIANNO was at PC's apart-

ment. FRATIANNO called HOWARD (probably HOWARD COOK) in

Los Angeles and charged the bill to his work or office

telephone, which he stated was 415-863-7607. From the

above phone call, between FRATIANNO and HOWARD, it was.

determined that HOWARD apparently loaned money

and got

beat.

FRATIANNO appeared upset with HOWARD and advised

HOWARD that he was going to make some moves.

FRATIANNO

also asked HOWARD if he called RICHARD GEORGE about the car.

3

DocId: 32326716 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SF 183-114

TFJ/ dlw

FRATIANNO told PC that while in Reno he went on

a tour of the Mustang Ranch with the owner (probably JOE

CONFORTE). FRATIANNO told PC that the Mustang Ranch almost

resembles a prison with the barbed wire fences and so forth.

He stated that the girls employed at the Mustang Ranch work

three weeks and get one week off.

FRATIANNO advised that

the girls average approximately $1000 per week.

FRATIANNO told PC that the reason he had been in

Reno recently was that an individual he knows wanted to

buy a "joint" in Reno, Nevada.

FRATIANNO telephoned BOB (LNU)

and told him that

some people want to buy a "joint" in Reno, and that the

people were from New York.

FRATIANNO mentioned the name

CANTINA (ph) during a couple of years. FRATIANNO asked

if he could do anything for him on his report. FRATIANNO

told. BOB that he gave someone $400 and the guy owes money

to HOWARD COOK. FRATIANNO told BOBBY (LNU) not to meet

him at the airport as FRATIANNO stated he is being watched

constantly at airports.

FRATIANNO told BOB that the guy

he was with from New York is going to jail in September

and he also told BOB that he was working on some big things.

FRATIANNO told Source that BOBBY has a three day

pass

from prison and has five more years to serve in jail.

FRATIANNO told PC that he gets alot of attention

while in Los Angeles, however, he feels that he is not

being followed in San Francisco.

FRATIANNO again told PC that some New Yorkers

wanted to buy a "joint" on the North Shore, probably Lake

Tahoe.

FRATIANNO also told PC he would probably be at

her place five days a week when he was in town.

FRATIANNO told PC that the Look Magazine article

was about "me and ALIOTO"

• FRATIANNO stated he saw ALIOTO

on the street the other day and ALIOTO ran like a deer. He

told PC that ALIOTO had cost him one million dollars.

FRATIANNO advised that when he got out of prison in 1960,

one of the biggest in the

stateme california, and that he hauled rock and dirt on

various highway construction projects, including Highway

4

DocId: 32326716 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SF 183-114

TFJ / dlw

80 near Donner Summit, Highway 99 near Fresno, Merced

and

Modesto, and the Las Vegas Freeway.

FRATIANNO stated he

was wiped out in 1966 and that the ALIOTO story in Look

Magazine finished him. FRATIANNO advised that he had

borrowed $135,000 from ALIOTO. He also stated he used

to own the Aladdin in Las Vegas and that he had paid

$35,000 for the Aladdin.

FRATIANNO and PC discussed various passages from

"The Grim Reaper" and FRATIANNO mentioned

that a movie entitled

Dragnet which apparently involved

two Kansas City hoodlums

that robbed a Las Vegas casino and were later killed gang-

land style, was about him, JIMMY FRATIANNO.

FRATIANNO

mentioned nothing specific about the death of the two

Kansas City hoodlums.

FRATIANNO also mentioned that one time he was

fined $85,000 and he mentioned the name JOHN ROSELLI.

On 7/19/76, before departing PC's apartment,

FRATIANNO mentioned that he had to see TOMMY KILDAIN.

FRATIANNO came to source's apartment on evening

of 7/21/76 and departed on the morning of 7/22/76.

FRATIANNO was at the apartment, electronic surveillance

was instituted. FRATIANNO talked about obtaining 150

porno films from Los Angeles for PHIL MEIDA and PHIL MEIDA

was very upset as half the films were gay type films,

which MEIDA does not want to handle. FRATIANNO called

to the 150 films for PHIL MEIDA,

the gay films which had been included in the package.

FRATIANNO told PC that he wants to obtain a

passport for the purpose of traveling to Australia on

business, possibly in September of this year.

FRATIANNO also told PC that he intended to travel

to Los Angeles, California for one day, possibly on Sunday

or Monday, July 26, 1976.

5

DocId: 32326716 Page 6

---

