# docid-32570076

## Page 1

FD-36 (Sev. 10-29-63)

Transmit the following in

Via

A IRTEL

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

F BI

Date: 7/7/65

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority)

REC-

24

: DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

SAC, SAN JUAN (109-14) (C)

ANT

L-FIDEL CASTRO ACCIVILES

IS - CUBA

warran

place co.in 105-1411619 @istiCactio.GiniBR)

Enslosed for the Bureau, Miami and New York are

10, ? and 2 copies

respectively of a letterhead memorandum

dated' and captioned as above, suitable for dissemination.

-SJ T-] is Ex-General

former Commander, Dominican Air Force, who requested that

his identity be concealed.

This letterhead memorandum is classified "Con-

fidential.' inasmuch as information

furnished by SJ I-l, ir

Improperly disclosed, could result in the identification of

this source of potential value.

14/619

General

during his interview advised

that the CIA controlled the movements.of the MRR and JURE

in Santo Domingo but that none of the other groups,

Conandos L, MDC, DROr the Site we conned with the

a vat DiA, Customs, Usco

Bureau (Enc. 9 ENCLOSURE

(1 - 109-12-312) (гс. 2 (RM)

ONI/OSI/ACSI

by routing/slip for info.

2 -

2

12-

York (105-35253) (Enc.2)(RM) REC

2112 :

1109-

5K 5 18 61

-

]

]

97-18) (DOMS IT)

105-7173 CASADO)

105-5400 (MRR)

103-3342 SUED

14

105-6242

JURE).

105-3367

DRE

thes

105-6323)

(COM L)

1

134-814)

- 105-6133) (SNFE

134-New) (SORONDO)

WWH/djs

(20)

166

-105-

Approved:

WEL

IL 81 Special Agent

F106

HEREIN IS UNCL

SSIFIED 2133201 A

DATE 1/28/85 XEROXBY SPUBJA/GEL

Sent JUL 1511905

Per .

Charge

NW 45825 DocId: 32570076

Page 1

OTHER 4

12

UNRECORDED

---

## Page 2

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

BOUN

TAL

¿TED STATES DEPARTMENT 0. JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Juan,

Puerto Rico

July 7, 1965

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

on July 3, 1965, SJ I-1, i Dominican exile in

Puerto Rico wich close ties to cuban exile groups to che

Dominican Repubiie, but with iom absurdicient contact has

been had to determire hen rellability, advised thee Mazano

•Sorondo, a guben eleno lived in Santo Domingo:

Dominican Resubija, was tre coordinacon son the establishment

of bases on operation foz severai lubgo anbi-castro groups

in the Dominican Republie. Sorondo's contauts within

the

Dominican

goverment were

the former Comnander of the

Dominican Air Morge, General l

and

a Colonell

Sorondo was instrumental

in coordinating the setting up of bases for the Segundo

Frente Del Escambray. (Second National Front of the Escambray)

(SNTE), end the Directorio Revolucionario Estudantil

Revolutionary Student Directorate )(DRE) in the Punta

Presidente anc Catalina Island areas of the Dominican Republic:

Sorondo also worked closely with Ceneral l

planning bases for Comandos I and for the Movimiento

Democratico Cristiano (Democratic Christian Movement) (MDC)

but that these latter two groups were unable to set up any

bases prior to the recent Dominican situation.

Source stated that the boats of the SNE, MDo and

DRE, which still remain in the Dominican Republic, are being

used

as patrol boats by the junta forces of General

Antonio Imbert Barrera in the Dominican Republic.

Source stated that Sorondo and General _

were both aware of the activities of the Movimiento

Recuperacion Revolucionario (Revolutionary Recuperation

Movement) (MRR) and the Junta Revolucionaria Cubana (Cuban

Revolutionary Junta)(JURE) in the Dominican Republic, and

DECLASSIFIED

ON 6/28/85

1211,326

XEROX

JUL 15/1965

Exeluded anem Automatic

-Downgrading and

-Deelassiftuationn

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

EREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

109-584-415

12.(6)

NW 45825 DocId: 32570076 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

EDE!

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

that the MRR had equipment, men and ships located on Beata

Island and' the JURE maintained a boat, the

"Venus" at

Dominican naval base near Santo Domingo.

Neither

Ir sorondo had contacts with these latter two groups.

Source stated thei the JURE contact within

the Dominican

government was toned Cortinas, Chief of Security.

Source advises chat Enrique Casade Cuervo was the

master of a boat callad the

"shark y" and was in the

Dominican Repubaic Crescenery.

Source was of the opinion

that Casado was connected in some we with the goT ex

the MRR.

Dide document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the 3EJ.

It is the property of the fBI and

1s loaned to you; 15 and its

contents are not to be dis-

tributed outside your agency.

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 45825 DocId: 32570076 Page 3

OTHER 4

---

