# docid-32293233

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10211-10009

HQ JUNE MAIL

92-3171-1463

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TITLE:

FBI

EVANS, C. A.

TO: BELMONT

DATE: 08/25/1964

"PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS, ACT, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32293233

Page 1

377

---

## Page 2

Peleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (47 05C

ADATE: 11-14-2017.

1UT HOLeS

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

OPTIONAL FORM NO: 10

3010-106

MAY: 1962 EDITION

OSA GEN.

REGO. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. Belmont

DATE: August 25,

1964

C. A. Evans

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA ALL INFORMATIOL CONTAINED JUN E

ANTI-RACKETEERING: HEREINIS

Selmonie

Mohr _1

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

Chicago. Recent information from confidential sources indicates that

Giancana continues to keep active in hoodlum affairs not only in the

Chicago area but in Milwaukee and surrounding territories as well.

For example, our Milwaukee Office received information from a

highly confidential source indicating Giancana completely controls

racket activities in Wisconsin and northern Illinois. Also, one of

his leading lieutenant's, Humphreys, is currently negotiating a

scheme to inject the Chicago group to a gambling setup in the

died of lung cancer on August 24, 1964, and as a result there can

very well be a realignment of hoodlum activities and responsibilities

in the Giancana group.(U

On the morning of August 25, 1964, Assistant Special

Agent in charge Coneys of the Cleveland Office called and advised that

Giancana has been identified as a person who is with the well-known

singer Phyllis McGuire in a motel in Warren, Ohio, We have

previously received information indicating that McGuire was appearing

in Warren, Ohio, and was staying at the Town and Country motel and

would probably be visited by Sam Giancana.(v)

ASAC Coneys advised he has been in telephonic contact

with our Chicago Office and they feel it highly desirable to obtain

confidential coverage on Giancana while in Warren, Ohio. This is

1 - Mr. Belmont

1 - Mr. Evans

1 - Mr. Stanley

20c

1 - Mr.

McAndrews

1 - Mr. Leggett

1 - Mr. Kelly

CHS:tjm

(7)

DocId: 32293233

Page 2

36 002

artil co

6 SEP 2

1964

tige

CONTINUED - OVER

ROUTE IN ENVRT.OPH

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

RE: SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

further dictated by the recent activities in the Chicago group and they

feel that such coverage offers excellent potential. Mr. Coneys stated

microphone coverage can be obtained with complete security since

they have outstanding contacts with the Town and Country motel. (U

ACTION:

Confidential coverage of Sam Giancana, of course, is

extremely desirable. In view of the urgent recommendation by the

Cleveland and Chicago Offices and the fact that complete security

has been assured, it is recommended that authorization be given

Country motel in Warren, Ohio.

A Cars

1025696

''-2-

DocId: 32293233

Page 3

---

