# docid-32272312

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

• Date:

3/31/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10144-10025

RECORD SERIES :

CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 29-43-01

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE:

INSPECTOR GENERAL'S REPORT

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/13/1978

29

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:WN 53080 Date:

06-05-2017

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

AMLASH

AMTRUNK

CUBA

CIA

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

NOTES

Unclassified

1A; 1B

Redact

01/01/2003

Box 21

I 53080 DocId: 32272312 Page 1

---

## Page 2

+. MARK FLANAGAN

HECIA

SECRET

T118E6571

SECRET

HW

53080

DooId:32272312

Page 2

---

## Page 3

'CIA

17-13-718

wash, De

INspector General's Report - 1977.

Suby comments no of pandat Kennedy! Pepoman as ch

sse Final depost-The Investgalos

Intelligenci Agencio.

Patroduetion

- SECRET

_ state the purerpal theme of Book I is the

poisibility of retalialory theory

by Castro k

Wat the CiA operations sperpudly may

hare cauced any possible ation on Castro.

- the ciA note that many tenurs betire la

U,S. x U.sS.Rx Cula exiled at che timo-

-p 3- stato hot the perams ivolsed at

a uncor trel in the inuest of 1964/Warer Cumm)

au no lunge in ve crA

= primary rehance placed in the words; cook

mto all cuter operatus kcarefully analyzed

the cocal i nate with sp ablation to secto

entamed in TABS B-G

TH 53080 DocId: 32272312

- CIA also cnducted an Inver. looking at

the elker end " to see if a theoretices

provocation them could has occurred..

- ful that the SSC tud to make AMLASH fit

Len pattern, (ps).

11112652

- Report amduder that the WC invest. Un

possibility of Celbar a Sovict instrement +

ded not fund it - suce the wc ded not report

anyplay it did not end "To hoed differently

nould be to accent uncuticall a social

paranoca opter

wowd hoed that a sempian

E number o

gorenment employees could engage in such a

М-duceplined стринсу

to supper endence.

(ps)

---

## Page 4

SECRET

p.6 - AMTRUNK operation, started in 1963,

- perpire - for denden elements in Cabar

lendenty is epport to out Castro. -don

in disloping: lette progen den JAIls life.

Is 1965, it was beluend to be comprosused t

CIA withdrew farm the operation.

- states al then aus base quester dhout

be suunt of lu opera

coved have known fum the hezinnery.

- sue it del not deslop momentum until apli

JFK's death, probably not related.

p.6 AMLASH - SSC saip that ls speration

planned Cartro 's assars. precedes le

munder o JFK; in cis holds alterurse.

"son to the Russ" anarsaatin not ily

had CiA not apeed to give on support

to AMLASH 11, but had repuled

lee:

proposals to arran Cartio.

11112655

- Ret then semp that the sse wan offered

ten cheming endence but dermersed it

out of hand as false - sse wored mly

adint that AMLASH/, was at

least induced is his acteans. Rat

saup that the SSe suggests that he indy

have keen acling for Castro as a provocateur,

to lead the 115 unto a plot ozaunt Cartio's...

life which is han to un the to puride

Present Kennedy CRET

= Kips scup that had Oils learned of AMLAS!

1H 53080 DocId: 32272312

---

## Page 5

SECRET

he nould mel know that an incoclusin ulation h

eusted.

TAB A

- respince to Book I obet - study group

estastched to view the problem- charedby.

a rep. fem the 0 of IG-also chuntel if

member fun CI staff, LA DIvisin,

* os. (pi).

Two poents emphasied.

1) " to condued a full resus of inpormation.

and operations as lee Cubar taget to

wining day acterly that might relate

to the airessinatios y Pres. Kennedy, and

agent Cula, did, hy then nature, cami

Cantra to order the a

arcination o

Prudet /emedy.

(p.1-2)

U

- mample for the

LA DIVISION

CISTAFF

peed held is

Dinectorate of Operation

- ahra len volumenon pile hed is oS x

I G.

(p. 2)

11112656

SECREL-

1H 53080 DocId: 32272312 Page 5

---

## Page 6

L

SECRET

LA DIVISION - file remerfer i fanbl

-fan 65. (P2)

- reach group compored of 5 pell-tim

renanher, a soup leader d a lach

force superior -ar additand 4

researcher parlipated in auspicent phases.

-(p. 2)

Types * Number of Kik Rud (p.3)

(1): Operational

(601 wich findings dad 1,128

wits no pudimp)

1, 729

2) subut files

186 mete were

* 361

with no findini.

(3/ Cella Policy Fill

4) Cheo, WH Diresin Chrms File,

(TASK FONCE N CRUMOs)

(5) Official 201 Dossiers

547

101

37

100-plus

totAL 2,514

11112657

SECRET

NH 53000 DocId: 32272312 Page 6

---

## Page 7

-SECRET

-the uit all note that an a unelt of

a memorandum prepared ky the Can desk,.

ni aunt 1 995, Ume had laces up the

namer was appeared is the so-called Plack

book has

Carto passed do Me govern. (p4,

CISTAFE

-arened me smor appeer to renew

the fee mL ho.

"Oswald Fik" so called - nonfill, 57

volumes - campuren ome 142 file folde

and port polios. - has allo

accumulatia come s0 supplemental

fiter...

- the is non he Agry! - cential

reposlory for info « documentation,

a Life of LHO

b.

aginey's sole in du wUEt 1963-64

before sescral commercino t coumittes...

d. Fors regue regimes.

(p6)

11112658-

"Offer o Securita

- assed me spice to identity matural;

induded volume a LHO, AMLASt,

various ind. connected with the Cuminal

Underworld Plot, and a collectis of names

coemiy name trace enducted at le

ume ap the garas investate. p 8

SECRET

WH 59080 DocId: 32272312 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

- to menhen of staff - aero employed

an a embract a retired employe who had

dured as a specal care appees in mercis cily.

durn the penad precedly oF's death

X deny bu / avert. apteruad. - codudes

an ustence cere of au Mex city records. p. 9

Tems of Reference afuement 4 Hey 76.

p. 6 - signed he

S.D. Breck In ridge

0 IG

Robert wall eI

Welliam Sturbitts LA Divisions

raymond Beardon os

L

TAB B

CiA Refernance on the pagiries

p. 1- soup that Book I of the SCC Final Peport

portrayed a pallen of neglect not.

supporte by the chilene.

11112659

- mentims "D"

AMLASH

Osuald's brand pr

3-5

= this section deal and Book I allegations

of muhandling vanow aspect of

Gue envestigation - at does not

deal with the retaliatoo ideas.

SECREF

HH 53080 DocId:32272312 Page 8

---

## Page 9

-...

SECRET

p.10- meatin the teo Cabana flights.

to Harana fum mercio city as 22 vivember

+ 27NOV 1563 -

pIl- CLA Conducted regular suncellane of

Cabana pestch - per, cash repoets to hdate.

- me unilateral CIA surrullana teass

LIFIRE - reported a departure t arrivals.

pill -ala, a llephone specatios (LI ENVOY)

zant the Culan emharsy provided

Curana affic & the mex auport Control

Office.

TABC

CIA OPERATIONS AGAINST CUBA

p.6- aver of operational actinly

1. Oper: duded out Cition

lendenhis - AMTRUNK

11112660-

2. Oper. involing the cuminal underwodd.

3. Ohe seport to asaimate Casio.

Operation AMTRUNK = p. 1

- to develop capability for splitling

Che

leade

up y cula terentual orerthrow

never rached the parnt of implementation -

SECRET

53080 DocId:32272312 Page 9

---

## Page 10

p.1

- SECRET

early 1963 - two Cuben eutes- wished to

chang cuba

(Nestor Antonio moreno Lopez

Enrique Cayardo Robia

dueloped operatimal concent "Lemaid Plan

---=

• 8

Cayardo r mereno-ducussed plar with

volsky - volly then ducursed t

Tadens Witold Azule, N15/moS-

p8 -

Azule had disloped freddin mich

many culam.

und ambassador

john c..

Wiley. Sule reportedly

Game he wanted.

- early 63 - dgut arranged an int. in

Mach with

Mu. Nichard good win, a

11112661

Volsky & Syule then meat with Noheet

Herwitch, a senorappical in lee

Dep't of state, who presented the chep!

Lo the cis with approval. CIA

arined it to meani elaba - unaem

pp 8.

as.

AMTRUNK

SECRET

p. 9.

AMTRUMI - conceired an edenhafing Ke

personnel in Chandined poice who could he

AHH 53080 DooId:32272312 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

used to muchou de castro rese.

p9-by Aly, 1963, ents had stil not

progrened par

early dept M63 AMININK hal ?

intellini somen is Cuta:

meuel 1. Duen. Ora

that in Hector.

Ramm

Orozco Basueto

One of then

L

- nothey deselored ter many min ths; by

565 its aunts had hea seroeti

papaidid t the decision us made

10

and all emmuction. (p.10)

pill - CLA Kaup they dicers the operaton

became of it weakness fim te beginning-

sput x a discurse

say that Ali Volat alon

are higtly

alha peron

SECRE

11112662

Tad Szule - suppers anci 48 when FBI

records said he vas a Comminist -

sudahle, Nicole gule, splas.

mani cmunut. The is bleeich

to be an agent of the Cuban DGI.

douth about tad Agule are unempiessed

WH 53080 DocId: 32272312

---

## Page 12

SECRET

but sull alise.

pIl forge

Ajbuszya Voloky - like Agule,

Cula.

supected of bey a

Communal, not comprimed.

p.12. pre Ruardo Put Rabel Nuney

P. 13

Ure InWArE station - accusations

that he was a Cuban arat -

new porea.

proper.

P.14 CIA Keep there was very little stantone

and no too.

p. 14.

NH 53080

Dac Id: 32272312

11112663

NEN CMADERATUNS ON THE SYNDICATE

OPERATION

- mentums a..

by- line dom by Paul heskil

, 20-25 April, 1975,

Which quoted Jrand Sturgis...

Aburgs

soup the tied arras scheme

unobed a homb i Castro a repic -

Mangs say he knew Than Orta.

Page 12

---

## Page 13

GRE

p. 15 - CIA paup thes necas article to la

the role of anarci in te plan againt

Castio.

p16 - Outa uns the man the CIALad,

in the operatin nich the suppdeate, to KIl Carte

seep that the plan faild (poisn) becau

ana lot his pocitios in panau, 561-

pacoi to deliven of the

pill in late.

Teb on early march 1961.

p-16 saup tat Orta's sole wen aer when

he toak refer in bu Venerates Embarry

is Harana is 1161- spil. lut

Cula is 1164 * selled in Meani is

Feb, 165.

11112664

on up 15 the upt say that slugs claimed

ma nunne of occau What he had to sack

pane estaten un as emploice of

Che CIA, alchogh no word of

anysuch retation hip.

"He was in contact with some of the ClA cubar

-employees

is the meani area, bet had

no diet

relation haps it the Agate

SECRET

NH 53080 DocId: 32272312 Paye 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

1: 17= Apt sup that because

of Orca a involement in son plot

ram the quitim of whelter Sturgis may

hare been a sane y inpo to Cactio.

PIT- NeuVOU Dady News - 13 pune 76 - repen

to possible relationship bus Slugest

Trappiante - alr mention Norman

achman as a gambling partner of

Trappicante.

pis - soup that it is

interten te note

at juar Oila's aculabelely to bu

malin mes understood to to ke du to

his hany lost payoffs that he had

ace recend fan gambling intereats...

then goes in to say two whip for stunges t

Orea to has known each other

2- heads of garbly act inter

11112665

p18

-NY Daily Neus - 1976 - doy los

rari a

In 1960 artel for Sturgi

in an attempt

to assas Castro.

The

story sai that coon apter her musm

faceed the cha

recute mapa mohaters to

Kul Cartro.

-SECRET

Lovery clains that the plan molned

We un of posson pill cmcealed

SNOBO DocId: 32272312

---

## Page 15

SECRET

in a for of face cream, she said lley

dissolved i could not be used.

p. 18 - Aad nest mention Out 18, 960 ABI

nems u: Granana - concludes that it

Ds inver a uman to lll castno but the the

date is too ear for the cIA work. (no

delisery unel late Feb, 1961).

Bet baep that

the sindicate may hare been moving on its

aun.

L-

p19

L.

Follownry collapse of

_CI's accento

Castro throgh Orta, Roselli sai M

men Carter cut leader, Deverma, nho

mght joid. - mentions that leona

Not salapid with Un CIA suppost

of the evile morement to date & that lou

miami station pepected he was not

repuy bayain with agency.

- meludes that Varma may hare drealy

plots. nich maya wher

cIA approached hin: Tho FBI spo bear a

thi:

1) 21 Dee 60 - cun und. suppest for sure

-Cuhan,

p20 2) 18JAn lI - Varma ine of those rec. sapport,

Not empinned

SECRET

11112665

HW 53080 DocId:32272312 Page 15

---

## Page 16

-SECRET

I

p20 - Rpt soup that alchough Ut

operatin wich mapio called up afte BoP (4-61).

it seemed like it has sull you, m

nher. u-activated

-. April, 1962.

p26

Aquit Merage in 1961 Rentumiy Plans to

Kill Cantro.

p26.

==

3 mussages - seem to relate to come

plas - same ajinto.

27 manch 1961- sent by an agency.

arset, Am BRONC/5. - propored satoca

of an elu. co. in Harana; could ke

coordwale with altempts gaint Fidel in

publii appearam at Spurs Palace.".

said chal tre aulempt "'aganst Fidel

(s) is accordance Mix general plas.

No word it thus was ans wend.

p2?.

25 manh 61- samegent sent anathe

mersge- said plar a scheduled

por apil 9 k

Cartno to talk at

palau * "1 ass arnatio atompt.

at said place (will be) pollound ky

ageneral so sheltig off of.

main electre plants is Hazara""

SECRET

11112667

you s@ selected - the mussose

E653080 DoeId:32272312 Page 16

addressed tho gineral save t

---

## Page 17

I=

HH 53080 DocId 32272312

SECRET

male

no camment a proposal to

Kill Castro.

5 April 1961- presumably jum same

asent - mentin that the perm

he had he dent to es why.

ная алт ры 50 теп.

slating at the sabotap of the detro

sampany and posity atten en

Fidel ' noued he ca

ned out 9 April,.

he emphased that to do as unild

male it imposable to maintara a

clanderone organgabis is Cella;

in you millay aid is deceit

it dies not come that date we au lost."

-no indication that in mecrage was anaivert;

no fucker referend found.

p27- Rpt mentino that the case afficer!

responsible for me of them as mll a the

pun were serewed.

AmBRONC/5- agut who sent out kn

mences outiny the propored sabotage

pz8

201 File open 15 July

1960

DA issued 31 JAN 62.

arrested 29 may 1962

11112668

ersite 30 augut 62:

SECRET

reported that he neve admilled being CiA;

Page 17

---

## Page 18

E.

SECRET

name not is the book gie son inferen

by Castro.

p.29 AMCOAX/,

- che of thou AMBronc/5 cas

coed to contact.

POA 5 janGl-

averted 17 ay61 - penay 30 yr

sentine-

in book fu sen me foren

missin: Organi paramiliary

acuntos in cura

p. 29

Am RUb/1 - anolher an AMBAne/5

bed to colad for his ginal plas

is apr 1961.

arrested pely 196/- 30 ys sentine

name in leat gas to de theone

тат: оцану монаж

p30 AMPANiL17

-anted 8 23 1pil b/-

30 yr lan - name among wor

restand grasps.

p. 31 -

11112669

the G April 61

missin by

AmBRONC/5 did not come app-.

he mission nas to oanize usedlance

groups - he had no expres missis.

to hit Cartno personalls, alekons

it u clear no specifu objection has

raced when he sentimed attenting

to do so.

SECRET

HH 53080 DocId:32272312 Page 18

---

## Page 19

I

SEUREE

= the other men, nine of whom had

anarsarion misin, au nou

p. 32 anotra agut meneye ded

4 june 61 - aslud abort a ma

Martin Elena 1

other -

to mast the ta peas

for on avasin wither 30 days, after

the Kelling Fidel

y die 6 fine, dated

I the ornato of the agent messag

cannot be edentefick.

p33

another mersap

3 may bl- fram

a member ther leonat

novement in Cuha said,

to Kill Fidel todAy

a reply

4 may lold the agut i hes

copanims to lay low -

11112670

- no pollow-up meneye-

açut

hu salte

possib, AMPuG/L, but SECRET

messin del not include assassination.

-HH 53080 DocId: 32272312

Page 19

---

## Page 20

SEGRET

p28 - a debreper of Am BRuNC/5 -

Nov 1960- revealed he had cutsch

wich. people who had plotted Killiy Castro-

claimed to han mad siniar plan -

TABD - AMLASH

fo Castro, nest the misino pion

a peos agunit Castro Which is tha pronted

Crates mah the pest tation to kill kenme

(pp 3, 74, 179 of sSC) or that AMLASHe was

so insinne

chat the operacon became knoc

to Castro nho when sought denne.

Kept by cit mete they cont

belun that the charactes of ite

death was so "insubstant, in and incinclusin.

that it provided no basis fore

AMALASH/I

to feel that he had are tange in seppe.

for plotting agaunt Cantro."

p 1-2

-llo for him to repent on leak.

Agency undentanding of the Operation

March, 1959- AMLASHlI

uported as telling

Cartno of hu dissalisfaction uch ti

seluation in Cuba

SECRET

11112671

1H 53080 DocId 32272312 Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET

March 196/

a C/A case oppier dationed then -

occason - the LATiN Amanuca Counce on

WAlmal Severegnty, Emancipation, & Peace.

meling arranged by AMWHIP/ - lng

Wave rund o ATLASH/.

P3

I.

- a dispath in july, 161, uhed fare a

gineral verren of operatims agamt Cubans,

descuted the meting:

the slation made an unsuccersful

approach to AMLASH/ - AMLASHA

apparently did not report bu

incident to hi superior, houser.

August, 1961- AMWHiP/I upto plan

ky. AMLASH, to allend the French

National sendut Unia Cultural Festivas

= AmLast, wanted to meet a faced of the

care officers.

Do not knaco if the

centoet occursed.

Tune, 1962 - 1pt at AMLASt would so to

va Prague to Wired Youll Festeral in

Helsinki.

AmLASH/I mu upt as

manking to dipect; world pare through

I hoped to meet AMWHIP.

then .

SECRET

11112672

p. 3.

- the FBI, Who knew of AmwHile's assoc nich

cIA, Bade met AMWin in miami and took steps

for him to be upered to lA shoued he contract Parn Legal itttae

NW 53080 DocId: 32272312 Page 21

---

## Page 22

L

p4.

p 4.

SECRET

July 1962- c11 critarted Am u410/1 - ahe

sand he yu angry mile the way de laA

handled.the.'

planned depection in bar en August

1961 Ples me made to 1 a Can

car appier A AMWHIP/ to trand to

Helsinki and anyuhen ele to secre

dipection.

sere of meetay, wich AMLiSH/s hell

in Helsinki

a I by 62.

AMLASH/,

and if he could do amathing really segmpions

he was intured in rebumen to Cula to

cany on the fighte

p5

1H 53080 DocId: 32272312

secily hagand y meeting in Helsinki too

splen led to meeting in

stockholm and

Copenhagen..

AMERSH/, next mel m 16-17 Aly in Pain -

Amunish, + 2 case officers prent.

AMLAH/ gie SW tramcas & supplies -

20 ALMA AMLASH, laken to southen tran

for a demolition demonstration.

11112673

Care appucer upt an

"Itar no unlicen gis [AMLASH/ I phipical

limeration mision as requirenient.

lus smeching he could on

pright

to carry out i his tea

initiative:

SECREL

Paqe 22

---

## Page 23

SECREI

beadquarter uplied nest day:

"stongly cocus that no pay.

elimiatos

misins be gre AMLASH/il'"

p5

29 Aly 62- AMLASH), Aft Prague ky air for

Harana-lant time he mn met unal he

left Cuba is deplesater, 1963.

₴

Comment -

note thas AMLASH/, not a recruitis

ajut diy the ahose time - nor was he

everfor that maller - as OA mm

nerioranted for the purpon.

-by and of

Alu 1962 - C/M Melationship wich

AmLAst had made no real proper.

- one a year paind unted nest emtact ka cit

- culual perrod..

5 Sept - 22 Nor 63.

AMLA8H/, allenral Collegiate Game en

Ponto Alepres Brazil fem 5 Sept

Isnt 1963 00 8 40p-1f-t

Cuban gov...

11112674

p.6.

= met her by AMWHI o ky lue CIt

are queer kho was to take mer the

relalindup nich him-SECRET

AMLASH, paid he had writter teo

SW meraays (All had ken recured).

WH 53080 DocId:32272312°

---

## Page 24

• SECRET

рь

- CIA soup tey ded not cotret. AMLASHi for

over are year heeduc he nere deft Cula.

- at then point (5 Sent 1963) ther was

it, no even (that) an anarination aperda

was mended, and it has quite chea

that it war not under chandication.

- the problem at that ume has howto

deal with the man.

- CIL ded not ful AMLAsH van whable enough

to rely an

at lal port.

• vierved as a

capabilities

-pere of unertain capitated

8

1 7 Sept 63 Cable-CIA ful then cable left

Lump very much up in the air— catte said

"AmLAst stall fies then only tero tAp.

accomplit chang uter inside job oe.

iNsum he reshutie enough to valii

later out of quertion. According AmWHIP,

plane aton "acting for us rereal

11112675

p8

the SSC thou that inside job upend

to smechiy agaunt Castna;

the CIA. sOy

it in a sineral criment shout how to

sury dhout change.

SECRET

HH 53080 DocIA:32272312 Page 24

---

## Page 25

SECRET

p.9

include

mr sull up in the air.

- CIA notes that at the pount Book I

slate thas " charachnation of thi phan

1 Che AM LASH operator is despited " p14

Sootroke iT.

Oin seep day dispute mly

aum in the enu is the SSC.

sec

alo mentions as interview Cash held with

an APreporte, DANIEL Hacker, In Whech

Cartro said anti-caitre terrorist has thie

support of us. leaders.

interdio inference - AMRASH may har

spoild to cormo what the sse Charactere

as un anariation plots. -

c,A respnee - "Cathob umals at lef

com conch not has stimmed fum

any they said to BMISH/, by cin

appens an les puposed nothig t

undertool nothay p. 10.

11112676

AMLASH, - RAnd - 14 Sopt -

to allend a

meclay of ALLIANCE

EMAN CHISE T

actually for an extendel vacation, ahe

he inteaded to report to castro later.

SECI

WH 53080 DocId:32272312 Page 25

---

## Page 26

SECRET,

an 16 Sent - he wrote AMWHIPle & raid lor

he ded not intond to he intercend hy you

fuend ajain. (apery to ceo case apfice).

30ct63- care ofreer hall went to Panis-

p 11.

I..

Il oct 63- carefuiter called hdg- see

Wot Amcastle claimed to hare te

per- people 1 extep to orcihan Cacto

w/out 4.s. arsentance.

AmLAsH, apld a wishing a meetes mit.

a senor affecal, preprally Roket Kennede,

to de sun of

M.s. suppet.

21 oct cable to wash ripte 17 oct meelay

wis AMLASH/, - Mant Us support

of his op is succinful.

Desmand Fityguale - her Chup I Sp. Alfam Staff-

gon to trane an olher businers - t

undutook to meet AMLASH -

pear for

use meeting.

111126777

" Fitzguald will replant self a personal

reper ature of Notert f. Kennedy who

tRavelled to Paus for specifii perpon of

meli AMLASHI and seven him arourances

o full his. suspent is chen e

a change 7 the punst gor, Cula.

(Emphan added)

SECRET

HH 53080 DocId:32272312 Page 26

---

## Page 27

SECRET

cation

29 Oct - Fits - AmLAshl, in PARis -

perm at meeting - case offen uno wo

he enterprete.

13 Nou - memorandum ummag the deta

p 1z

-

p, 13

We group is poster de squent U.s support

→ in 1967-IG1

Repont

Fits recalled that AmLish i repeatedly mad

uperener to the need for an ararmatia, wapa-

Ide maled a hitpone uph with telescopic

len, a am other nape that could he

und to Kil Carte jum a duitance. Fity

rad he repeted the request

NoTE: the can appuer" memo and not

uper specially to arcarsination one

a mapar.

muel saup that maching.

of operational nature ducussed; AMLAsts

an and tests, dece to know,

houses, what technied support could

be goven.

SECRET

11112678

14NOX 63 - AMWHIP/, met in N.Y. C = upt

an AMERSH/: reactem to the Oct 29 meetug =

o herelated:

not gue hen technual support

HH 53080 DocId: 32272312 Page 27

---

## Page 28

p14

33

pis

SECRET

CIA

note that at the pound it marclear

Wat AMLAsH wastold lhe would he no

Us support untracta tu fart - emtas

to alalemal be SSC (p 18) 4 Final Report

to the efpect that it wa not cles how

AMLASH/, interpreted the put off

by Fitzguall.

-allo cites fuly 1964 FBI repoil as

endene Wat-AMLASHs Mace he had beer tunes

dom an Oct 29 hy Fetyguald.

following the 14 Nor meety mul AMWIt.

Ike CiA revreured what could he dar te maintan

contact nik AMLASH -

a 19 wur 63

Fity applored telling AmensHle

he would he gie a cache maide Cuba -

it could, if he squeded it, inclide

his parced riple a scope.

LINOU - AMLASHI COCO CIA opper de

planned to retrie to Cula

20 nov -

Hdg called Pace & requested

Uat AMLASH delay departure dó

pereat he more meeting whit fontAsls

Muekd.

11112679

HW 53080 DocId:32272312 Page 28

---

## Page 29

17,

===-

P

16

SEGRET

Use same day BILASt apied to reman.

- the ciA saip still no specepic offer was

saye that AMLASS, apeed 10

Care office replied" he could not

assure is intercon

_but that it

nas to ke

a meeting which AMLASH

had requested.''

- case puer arned fum Wach in Pau an

the morning of the 22Q - not AMLASHl.

fate in the apternoon-

learnedos

ennedys assan as they lift the meeting

probably were meet nhen lensed warshot -

-

Conclucion ky ciA

Whator the elatinhip wit AMLAst!e

follown tu deal o pradet lundy, thee is

exey intreatin chas duces Preder Kinds,

lifé Am_BSH/, had no bars for belierag

that he had ciA support for much of

anytry.

to Carto, or of he rus merel, carlers

A leased what helener,

he had he pouties

11112680

WH 53080 DocId:32272312 Page 29

---

## Page 30

p 23

SECREZ

AMLASH vas amented- doe not sey ther served

Oyrs of a 30yr them - ln publi trial

ded nol mention Me agency assoc fo mardi 1561 to

Nov 1964.

alio, nha Cantro- Me Joren lit of people -

AMLASH, among those - the upoild pered,

hoirver, did not include maich 196/fo

Nor 64.

IG Report - 19117- completed.

-all TABS

(A - G).

1º

11112681

SECKER

WH 53080 DocId: 32272312 Page 30

---

