# docid-32310180

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10302-10124

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-1423-3RD NR 137

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, WMFO

TO: ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/21/1972

3

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1B; 1C

Redact

10/29/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32310180

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

DATE: 11-14-2017

(44. USC 2107 Hote).

COMMUNICATONG GA

JOLSIA

Mr. Collabai

Mr courted

Chiveland

har.

Mr. Poll?

"e Towner

NR 006 WE CODE

425 PM URGENT 7-21-72 MCP

TO ACTING DI RECTOR (185-18828)J(5)

ATTENTION DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION

FROM WASHINGTON FIELD 105-5245 PS

SECRET

wir. Sayor

Tir.

Walters

Tele. Room

Mr. Kinley

Mr. Aimstrong

-M6. Hervi

Classified by Sl

Deciassify on-

MAD

EMBASSY OF ISRAEL, WASHINGION, D.C., IS - ISRAEL (5)

ON INSTANT DATE, WE FIVE SIX EIGHT DASH S, LEARNED THAT S

I. IRVING DAVIDSON, SELF -EMPLOYED PUBLIC RELATIONS CONSULTANT,

WDC AND REGISTERED AGENT FOR HAITI WITH USDS INTERNAL SECURITY

DIVISION, ADVISED MAJOR GENERAL ELIAHU ZEIRA, DEFENSE AND ARMED

FORCES ATTACHE, EMBASSY OF ISRAEL JES FOLLOWS E

ACCORDING TO INFORMANT, DAVIDSON TOLD ZEIRAITHAT IN HIS, S)

DAVEDSON'S , OPINION THAT BEFORE ZEIRA LEFT HIS PRESENT POST IS)

IT WOULD BE GOOD IF OT A VERY CIGH LEVEL, MIKE THE LEVEL OF

OAKLEY', OR EVEN MYSELF JHAT ZEIRA MEET ACTING DIRECTOR L

PATRICK GRAYE DAVIDSON DESCRIBED THE ACTING RECTORJAS A

CERTAS AUERO COLD ZETRA HEIR JOBS ARE ENDIRECTLY ALMOST

THE SAME IN CERTAIN AREAS EDAVIDSON THEN OFFERED TO ARRANGE A

SOCIAL MEETING BETVEEN THE ACTING DIRECTOR AND ZEIRA, BUT

END PAGE ONE

1123-

ALL INFORMRATION COUTA

ROT RECORDES

METER IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCSPT WHERE SHOWN

141 AUG

OTHSEWISE

SacKEL.

1972

57AUG8. 1972

27-98

ASCIFIED BY 5668 SUD/ISA

DECLASSIBY ON: 25X

1,6

(JFR)

DocId: 32310180 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released wider the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:: 11-14-2017

WHO 195-524| (5)

SECRET

PAGE TWO

INDICATED HE FELIAHAT ANDEFICIAL MEETING WOULD BE MORE

[SATISFACTORY DAVIDSON ALSO MENTIONED THAT (THEY ARE UPGRADINGS)

THEIR OFFICE OVER THERE" ZEIRA THEN INQUIRED IF DAVIDSON IS

PERSONALLY ACQUAINTED WETH THE ACTING DIRECTOR AND DAVIDSON

REPLIED, "YES• SINCE NINETEEN FIFTY-NINE •

I WISH TO HELL HE'D

BEEN THERE BEFORE THE TROUBLE OF MINE. 1(5)

INFORMANT INDICATED THATEZEIRA VAS AGREEABLEJIN PRINCIPLE,

SO SUCH A MEETING ENTICAVE NO FIRM COMMITMENT TO MEET THE

ACTING DIRECTOR. ](5)

LIEIRA IS SUBJECT OF BUFILE NINE SEVEN DASH• FIVE TWO FIVE

ONCEND RITENTION IS DIRECTED TO WOLET DATED FIVE THIRTYONE CEL

LAST IN THAT CASE, HEREIN IT IS STATED THAT ZEIRA INDICATED]S)

•HE HAS TARUNS OVERHE RUGER ONE SPOT IN INTELLIGENCE ID

ACCEPTED CONGRATULATIONS ON HIS APPOINTMENT AS CHIEF OF ISRAELI

MILITARY INTELLIGENCE • (S)

• BUREAU"S ATTENTION IS ALSO DIRECTED TO FOAIRTEL

END PAGE TWO

SECRET

DocId: 32310180 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the Johh F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

NTO 105-524](5)

PAGE THREE

SECRET

DATED FIVE TWELVE LAST, BUFILE ONE FIVE SIX DASH FOUR THREE ZERO

WHICH RELATES TO DAVIDSON•

END

IDJ FBIWASH DC CLR

SECRET

DocId: 32310180 Page 4

---

