# docid-32306858

## Page 1

released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

• Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10290-10498

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-2506

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, SF

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE : 01/20/1969

• PAGES: 6

SUBJECTS :

LCN, LUCIANO, CHARLES, SUR, ITALIAN POLICE, TRA,

MEMBERS A/O ASSOC, US, LEADERSHIP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306858

Page 1

31

---

## Page 2

Released under the John E. kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 144 USC

DATE: 11-11-2017

Transmit the following in

Via

ARTEL

TO:

SUBJECT:

Date:

1/20/69

(Type in plaintext or codel

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (92-1661)

LA COSA NOSTRA

- NEW YORK

AR

00: New York

TROX

1969

Re San Francisco airtel to the Bureau dated

1/13/69,

captioned "CARMINE JOSEPH TAGLIATELLA, aka,

...AR. 00: SF."

San Francisco teletype to Bureau, 1/20/69:

On 1/17/69, SF 3208-PC, was recontacted and

advised that he spent three years in Comstock Prison

in New York with CHARLES "LUCKY" LUCIANO from 1942 unt

1945. During this time, the Source indicated that he

initiated a race riot.

He explained that the prisoners

were involved in repairing camouflage nets for the armed

forces.

On this assignment, Negroes were placed side-by-

side with Caucasian inmates, much to the resentment of

many of the latter.

On one occasion, the Source became

incensed about having to work next to them and started a

free-for-all. LUCIANO, who was present and emerged unharmed.

Telt renewed

respect for the Source as a result of his

performance in this riot.

The Source related that approximately eight

years ago, he travelled to Italy to visit LUCIANO, who

at that time was residing in Naples. LUCIANO greeted him

with enthusiasm and conducted a tour of the Italian penin-

sula with him.

While in Naples, LUCIANO drove the Source

to the ferry which carries passengers to Sicily. This was

done while both were under survelflance by the tallan

Police. The Source boarde REC

- Bureau

(REGISTERED)

(1 - 92-CARMINE TAGLIATELLA)

(1 - 137-SF 3208-PC)

15 JAN 23 1969

3

New York

(REGISTERED)

3 -

san Francisco

- 737-5207)

RTY:

Approved

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charged

55FEB 181963

DocId: 32306858

Page 2

Hotel.

weapon containin

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

SR 92-1661

PAGE TWO

forry alone and sailed to Sicily, where he was greeted by the

Italian police who demanded his passport.

When the source

produced it, the police demanded that he leave the island

and advised him that they were aware of who sent him, namely

CHARLES "LUCKY" LUCIANO. Whereupon, the source returned on

the next forry and never did get the opportunity to tour

Sicily•

SP 3208-PC deseribed LUCIANO as "Il capo de tutts

capi" while he was in the United States, meaning that LUCIANO

was the boss of bosses.

He stated that since LUCIANO! departure,

Ho credited LUCIANO with

being the prime mover in organizing "le commission" which was

designed to prevent further slaughter between the various factions.

*

The source digressed briefly to explain the conditions

under which the Cosa Nostra developed in the United States, as

they were explained to him by his parents and older associates.

In the Nineteenth Century in Sicily, there existed only two

classes of people: the rich and the poor. The laws were

designed to protect the rich at the expense of the poor and

conditions on the island were poverty-ridden. At the latter

end of that century, a movement in defense of the poor arose

and stops were taken against the rich te protect the rights of

the poor, which steps included assassination.

When a member of

the rich class was killed, a sign of the black hand, or as the

source called it,

"11 mano nero," was loft on or near the vietin.

Before long, this sign caused terror to strike in the hearts of

the upper class and the poor rocognized it as an ellective tool

with which to combat their foes.

The source continued that as more organization

developed, what is now called the mafie sprang up, with leaders

and discipline.

During this fruition, many Italian-Sicilians

emigrated to the United States and brought this tradition with

them, settling mainly in the New York ares and the Eastern

Seaboard.

Factions of the Black Hand and the Mafia sprang up

and friction between them ensued until under the leadership of

the more powerful bosses, what is now called "La Cesa Nostsa"

was organized.

The source advised that TOMMY RYAN bas made himself

very popular in New York and many members of the GENEVESE family

find themselves prefering RYAN to the "treachery" of VITO

GENEVESE. The source said he expecta GENEVESE to be released

- 2 -

DocId: 32306858 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote r

DATE: 11-14-2017

SP 92-1661

PAGE THREE

from prison this your and expects him to be killed immediately.

He said 1f GENEVESE is not killed, then he will have TOMMY RYAN

Illed in order to insure the loyalty of the other members of

his family.

The source was questioned as to which family in Now

York he felt closest and he replied that without question he

was closest to the old "Three-Pingers Brown" family which is

now bossed by CARMINE TRAMUNTI, whom the source said he knows

very well. The source said he

KNOWS TRAMUNTI aS CARMINE

GRIBBS and has known him since 1934, before TRAMUNTI was a

"member" of the LCN. He said his brother-in-law was a partner

of TRAMUNTI in the early thirties until his brother-in-law

was shot and killed in a dispute over a prognant girl.

SF 3208-PC continued that his closest friends are

not deny it. He referred to VARIO as "my capo.

that VARIO ia in charge of Brooklyn for the GRIBBS family

and said "BIG SAM" CAVALIERI is very influential now and may

be a new capo decina. He added that if GRIBBS! status becomes

permanent,

"BIG SAN"

may be named "underboss," inasmuch as

there is no one GRIBBS trusts more than "BIG SAM."

SF 3208-PC advised that there has been a feeling

of restrained animosity between him and BENNY DE MARTINO of

the GENEVESE family, whom be has previously deseribed as a

largo shylock.

This feeling arose when the source obtained

• loan of $5000 from a "factor" of DE MARTINO's and then

could not pay off the loan on time. A near war resulted and

was only averted when PAUL VARIO; BABE VARIO, PAUL'& brother:

PETE (LNU),_ PAUL's "compare;" JOEY DE MARCO, a "member" of

the GENEVESE family and close friend of the source's; JOEY

PAGANO, another "member" of the GEN EVESE family and friend

of the source's; and VINNIE "BEANS" FASINERO (phonetio),

• "member" of the GENEVESE family and friend of the source's

all sat down with BENNY DE MARTINO and the source and arbitrated

the dispute.

The source added that VARIO was acting as his

spokesman.

The declaion arrived at was that the source need

not pay off the loan until he had the resources and the interest

wes stopped. DE MARTINO was displeased wich the decision, our

sinco it was an "official" settlement he had to abide by it.

•3 =

DocId: 32306858

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SF 92-1661

PAGE FOUR

lois difference oecurred in either 1957 or 1958. Since that

time, the source paid off all but $1500 to DE MARTINO.

The source continued that about a year ago, he borrowed

an additional $1000 from JOE "BREAD," who is aligned with BENNY

DE MARLING, tO uSe In the conatruction of a new roateurant,

the four corners, New York City, New York. When DE MARTINO

learned of this loan, he became angry again, inasmuch as the

original loan had not been completely repaid. The source said

he bas not seen DE MARTINO since then.

SF 3208-PC advised that BENNY DE MARTINO is related

nephew. Whenever anyone wants to get in touch with DE MARlINe

tolephonically, they call the bar and ask if "the unole" i

Chore. • This is done under the supposition that if the line 1s

"tapped,"

anyone hearing would believe the call was for the

owner Instead of BENNY. However, the "unele" referred to in

a code name for BENNY. Arrangements will be made with the

caller at this point to get him in contact with "the uncle."

The source added that if anyone calls and asks for BENNY by

name, the person answering the telephone will play it dumb

and deny knowing BENNY or, at least, deny that BENNY 1s in the

whether he la actually there or

BEWNY's nick name 18 "BENNY the Bum," altheugh four people dare

call him that to his faco, However, on oceasion, BENNY will

Instruct one of his men to carry a message to another person.

and will tell his man to say the message is from "Benny the Bum."

The source was queried about the leadership in the

New York area of the LCN. He replied that the present "bosses"

deposed and the source did not know who took his place. The

COLOMBO "families." He added that he has good contacts in the

other three families.

SP 3208-PC stated that the most feared family in New

York is TOMMY RYAN's, because almost one hundred per cont of

the members had to commit murders to got admitted.

He added

that the next most feared family is GRIBBS'• He said that

the GAMBINO family is perhaps the least feared and remarked

that it is full of "degenerates."

The source said that ALBERT ANASTASIA headed up

the GAMBINO family until his death in the 1950's.

Then ono

JOHNNY ROBERTS took over, until he was killed on Grand Avenue

in Brooklyn. GAMBINO subsequently took over and has been the

"boss" since. (NU) SCALISE was either a capo or underboss

- 4 -

DocId: 32306858 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hotel-

DATE: 11-14-2017

SP 92-1661

PAGE FIVE

to ANASTASIA and was killed by members of his own family for

selling membership, with the going price being about $50,000.

TONY the deep took over from SCALISE and la presently a cape

and possibly the underbess to GAMBINO. He la in charge of

the Brenx for the GAMBINO family. TONY tho Wep 1a in charge

of East Harlem for GAMBINO.

SF 3208-PC identified one AL ROSS, an Italian whose

real name temperarily eluded the source, as a "member" of the

TOMMY RYAN family of LON. He is in BENNY SQUINT's regime

(FILLIPO LOMBARDE) and makes his headquarters at a club located

two doors down fron a paint stere on 2nd Avenue between 118th

and 117th Streets in New York City. ROSS can be found at this

club generally between 11:30 AM and 5:00 PM. The source said

ROSS 1s one of the largest shylocks in Manhattan and a very

vicious individual who

would not hesitate to kill. The source

identified one of ROSS' runners and collectors as an Italian

known as "Willie Ga Ga."

The source said ROSS killed a Negro in 1953-54 for

falling to pay off a $500 loan and for getting "out of line"

on the telephone when he was talking to ROSS.

The source said

this Nogro got abusive on the phone and ROSS asked him to come

to the club where they could settle this difference as gentlemen.

the club and there killed him with a revolver. With the asais-

the body was leaded into a car and

driven to a section in the

Bronx where it was dumped among trash cans. LOUIE was "made"

• member for his assistance in this killing, with ROSS acting

as his sponsor •

SF 3208-PC advised that ROSS was "made" in 1950-51

at BENNY SQUINT's headquarters at 116th Street and lst Avenue.

He was made under the sponsorship of MIKE CAPOLLO.

The source advised that CAPOLLO "mado" the ERRA brothers

in 1949, after they carried out an assignment for him by shooting

LOUIE CERILLO (phonetic) in the Cosmo, a movie house located on

Iloth Street between 3rd Avenue and Lexington, New York City.

The source said LOUIE did not die from his wounds.

LOUTE had

robbed one of CAPOLLO's gambling houses, knowing it to belong

to CAPOLLO. The source said the failure of LOUIE to die from

his wounds had no effect on the ERRA brothers being made members.

The source advised that in 1957-58, he accepted a

contract from a unden on behalf of the LON to enforce a strike

called against the Reeves Instrument Company in Weatbury, Long

DocId: 32306858 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

SP 92-1661

PAGE SIX

Island, Now York. His assignment was to keep the strike going

and prevent anyone fron crossing the picket lines. The sourse

said representatives from the union came to him at his bead-

quarters in a pool roon located at 117th Street and Pleasant

Avenue, wich pool room has since been destroyed. The initial

fee was $1500 a weok, which the source collected.

because of difficulties in enforcing the strike, the source

had to obtain the assistance of other LN members, namely

PAUL and BABE VARIO and one PETE(LNU), whom the source deseribed

as PAUL's "cumpari," which is Sicilian for very elose companion.

When the added LCN members were included in the contract, the

foe rose to $3000 a week.

The source recalled one incident in connection with

this strike, when mombers of the tenusters union decided to

crosa the picket lines.

In order to avert a battle, PAUL VARIO,

who had taken over control of the enforcement of the strike,

went to TOMMY RYAN, who in turn went to (FNU) O'ROURKE, an

official of the Teamsters Union. Accompanying RYAN waS JOEY

PAGANA.

O'ROURKE agroed to instruet the teamsters to obey the

picket lines and a major battle was averted.

The source said,

however, that several trucks were breken up before 0 'ROURKE

finally acted.

The source could not remember the name of the

union for which the LCN was acting at this time, but he recalled

one of its officials was an Italian named SAM DESIMONE, who the

source deseribed as a very close friend of PAUL VARIO and a person

woo bad a very bad caso of claustrephobia.

The source concluded by stating that PAUL VARIO 1s one

o1 cho most poweriul men in GRIBBS family at the present time.

In the late 1940's or early 1950's and used a

flower shop, The Fountainbleau, as his headquarters. Next door

to the flower shop was a union offlee for the bricklayers helpers

which is headed by one of VARIO's brothers. This brother is also

an LCN member.

- 6 -

DocId: 32306858

Page

---

