# docid-32309227

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/23/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10298-10014

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 65-65051-1, 1ST NR 1, 2, 3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/24/1957

8

JFC, ASSOC, INTV, BUCKLEY, MICHAEL, RES, BKG, DESCR,

RACK ACT, THREATS, ELSUR, BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC S/S, 2 TTY, MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32309227

15

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11714-2017

LA 105-0-

the did deterge"

certain property owned by sevEL.

The man indicated that

SEVEL was to be killed by Communist agents.

The priest was

not_ clear .concerning the-reason. for SEVEL's jeopardy and

could furnish no additional information in this regard.

The priest stated that he did not believe the man

to be a crank because his motive in appearing at the church

was primarily one of

religious concern and the above information

concerning the man's

background and re SEVEL was incidental

and unrelated to the main discussion. The priest advised

that the man spoke with a slavic accent, possibly Russian,

was well

dressed and presented himself

intelligently and

credibly.

Father BUCKLEY described the unidentified man as

follows:

Sex

Race

Hair

Complexion

Age

Height

Build

Dress

Peculiarities

Male

White

Blond

Light

Approximately 35 years

Approximately 5'7"

Slight

Well dressed in sport clothes,

grey

slacks, grey tweed sport coat, shoes

shined.

Spoke very softly with Slavic accent.

The Los Angeles Office was advised by CSLA 3184-S,

who furnished information

• to SA WILLIAM JOHN NOLAN on December

1957, that on 12/22/57 an anonymous complainant had advised

the Los Angeles Police Department Business Office that JOSEPH

SEVEL (phonetic), 1153 Denton Drive, Dallas, Texas, would soon

be killed by the

Reds.

No action is being taken on this by the

Los Angeles Police Department.

whatever action deemed

appropriate.

at trend

-2-

DocId: 32309227 Page 2

---

