# docid-32327601

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System.

Date:

6/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90064-10172

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

87-15374-134

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LA

TO: 'HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 08/20/1953

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

VICTOR EMANUEL PEREIRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : ,4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

TT

v9.1

DocId: 32327601

Page 1

34

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

I 2 DIRTEEN ON INST

PARALINES SI

AUG 20 1953,

G.I.R.-6

LOS ANGELES

8-20-53

6-10 PM PDST

DIRECTOR, FBI AND SAC-S DENVER AND CHICAGO

ICTOR EMANUEL PERERIA, WAS., EUGENE HO

@BRADING, HAS., GERTRUDE 8B 2-1

@JOYCE - VICTIM, ITSP, MAIL TRAUD, CONSPIRACY. RE LA ARRTEL TO U

WITH: CC TO CHICAGO DATED AUGUST EIGHTEEN LAST, AND BULET TO-DO DATEL

AUGUST FOURTEEN LAST. BUFILE EIGHTYSIVEN DASH ONE FIVE THREE SEVEN

FOUR. LA

DASH C AT PRESENT UNABLE TO ASCLETAIN IDENT-

ITY ATTORNEY FRIENDS OF ARTHUR LOUIS CLARK, SR., MIAMI GAMBLER AND

CONFIDENCE MAN. LA

DASH C ADVISED CLARE AND PERILIA

LEAVING LA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT THIS DATE ELEVEN FISTYFIVE A.M. FOR

DENVER. PERERIA AND POSSIBLY CLARK TO CONTINUE CHICAGO THERE PERERIA

WILL

ATTEND VENDING MACHINE CONVENTION TO BE HELD THERE WEEKEND BEGINN-

- DON ARREDUED RY LA AGENT TO

LEAVE LA INTERNATIONAL AIRFORT ON UNITED AIRLINE FLIGHT SEVEN ZERO

SIX AT ELEVEN FIFTYFIVE A.M. THIS DATE, TO ARRIVE DENVER THREE TWENTY

FOÑ., PDT, PERERIA DESCRIBED, UMA, THIRTYFOUR YRS., SIX FEET ONE AND

ONE-MALE, TWO TEN LES., DARK BROWN HIAR, BROUN EYES, WEARING DARK BLUE

BLACK SHOES, AND SUN GLASSES, NO MAT. CLARK DESCRIBED, URA,

C

TIMELES, PED FACE, PROMINENT NOSE.

LIGHT TA TA USERS, ERGON AD WEITE SPORT SMOES, MOAUSTER MANIA

CONDUCT DO ACTIVE INVESTIGATION EUT CONTACI AIRPORT OFFICIALS, OBTAI

ENOSERS 1953

87-15374-1

fift

DocId: 32327601 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

7

Г

7

ITINERARY OS CLARK AND FEBERIA, AND ADVISE, CILICACO

SUDHI SHED DESCRIPTICH OF BRADINE

PERDRIK. CRICACO ATTENT TO ASCER

CONVENTION AND COVER LEADS SET OUT TI

¿MALONE

AND ACK PLS IN ORDER

813 PM OR TBI WA RLT

C6

TU DISC

JK FBI C6 JJP

8715374-4

L

DocId: 32327601

Page 3

---

