# docid-32290197

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10202-10473

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 63-5130-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8

Releaned ander are deat

. Kennedy

146 780 2207 223e1.

Daee=:17 48732 Sabe:

--- 6-222-

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, CG

DATE: 11/26/1958

'PAGES:

65

SUBJECTS :

SSC ON IMPROPER ACT IN THE LABOR OR MANAGEMENT

FIELD, SUBPOENA, WITNESSES, VOGEL, EDWARD D., SGI,

LA PORTE, FRANK, WHEREABOUTS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/06/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

INC TT, 2 RPT, 4 MEMO, A/T

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32290197 Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

'STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Ofice Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENI

TO

:

DIRECTOR, FBI (0 3-5/30)

DATE: March 27, 1959

SAC, CHICAGO (92-674)

SUBJECT:

EDWARD

VOGEL, AKA, Et Al;

MISSING WITNESSES, SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE IN THE LABOR OR MANAGEMENT FIELD

COMMENDATION MATTER

On November 26, 1958, the Bureau instructed the

Chicago Division that the captioned Committee had requested

the Bureau's assistance in locating EDWARD VOGEL, FRANK

LA PORTE and SAMUEL GIANCANA for service of subpoenas

before that Committee.

Immediate and continuous attention

was directed towards locating these individuals for the

Committee.

On January.5, 1959,

the investigation relative

to SAMUEL GIANCANA, Bureau file 92-3171, was reassigned

to SA RALPH R. HILL at Chicago.

During

the months of

January, February and March, 1959, SA HILL directed and

participated in over 25 physical surveillances in an effort

to locate GIANCANA for the Committee, many of which were

conducted in extremely adverse weather conditions and

during nights and week ends without regard to SA HILL'S

personal problems.

During these months, the Chicago metropolitan

newspapers gave continuous attention to the fact that

GIANCANA was being sought for subpoena by both the Senate

Select Committee and the Attorney General's Special

Group in Chicago.

The Salt Lake Division advised on January 9,

1959, that their informant sU 370-C had developed

information that a S. FLOOD, 6466 Roosevelt Road,

Forest Park, Illinois, had registered at the Desert Inn

Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada, from December 28 to 30, 1958.

This informantoadvised that through conversations overheard,

she was of the opinion that FLOOD might be identical with

ANTHONY ACCARDO; Chicago Top Hoodlum.

6

3-5130

Bureau

1 - Chicago

1*1.1

REG! 2E / 8812

1 35 bM APR 14 1959

RDA: DAR

(3)

comments

See a gaze st ative Die

MW

45792

DocId: 32290197

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-674

During the course of this investigation, SA HILL

caused a search to be made of the telephone calls charged

to the GIANCANA residence at Oak Park, Illinois. SA HILL

was advised by officers of the Illinois Bell Telephone

Company on February 24, 1959, that a long distance telephone

call had been made from "Mooney" to GIANCANA's residence;

such call originating at Las Vegas, Nevada during

January of 1959.

This information was furnished to the

Salt Lake Division along with the fact that GIANCANA'S

sister's married name is FLOOD. Arrangements were made

by SA HILL to have a forthwith

subpoena forwarded to the

Inited States Marshal's Office in Las Vegas.

On March 25, 1959, the Salt Lake Division advised

that acting pursuant to information received from their

informant, SU 370-C, GIANCANA had been successfully served

the subpoena by an Assistant United States Marshal.

In my opinion, SA HILL deserves special

recognition in the form

of an individual letter from the

Director for his enthusiastic approach in developing the

information that ultimately led to locating GIANCANA

for service of the subpoena, for his perseverance under

adverse conditions and for the sacrifice to his own

personal life to secure the interests of the Bureau in

this matter.

COMMENTS OF

INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

THIS

INVESTIGATIVE

DIVISION DOES NOY BELIEVE

MAYER

WARRANTS

COMMENDATION

BECAUSE

NO UNUSHAL INVESTIGATNE TECHNIQUES WERE

EMPLOYED NOR DOES IT APPEAR THAT SA HILL

DID ANY MORE THAN WHAT IS NORMALLY

EXPECTED IN HIS TYPE

CASE.

- 2 -

Memo te SAL

4-6-59

anit

585-10813

NW 45792 DocId: 32290197

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-694.

THE CHICAGO DIVISION

AT CHICAGO HEIGHTS, ILLINOIS

Will interview immediate relatives of subject LA PORTE

residing in Chicago Heights area concerning the subject's

whereabouts.

Will maintain contact with GENE BASE and ARTHUR

SCHULIS, Illinois State Police, concerning any information

developed by them regarding the subject.

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

Will maintain contact with informants and will

continue spot check surveillances of places frequented

by the subject..

INFORMANTS

T-1

T-2

T-3

T-4

T-5

CG 6218-C who was contacted by SA VINCENT L.

INSERRA on February 27, 1959.

GEORGE MACHADO, Route 1, Lindey, California, who

was contacted by SA JOSEPH T. DALY of the San

Francisco Office on January 28, 1959.

PCI, who was contacted by

• JOHN W. ROBERTS, Jr. on February 11, 18, 1959.

sU 370-c who was contacted by SA BRYON C. WHEELEI

f the Salt Lake City Office in March of 1959

FRANKFURT on Marcho s contacted by SA PAUL B.

JFK Act 6 (4)

-B -

COVER PAGE

NW 45792 DocId: 32290197 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-694

THE CHICAGO DIVISION

AT CHICAGO HEIGHTS, ILLINOIS

Will interview immediate relatives of subject LA PORTE

residing in Chicago Heights area concerning the subject's

whereabouts.

Will maintain contact with GENE BASE and ARTHUR

SCHULIS, Illinois State Police, concerning any information

developed by them regarding the subject..

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

Will maintain contact with informants and will

continue spot-check surveillances of places frequented

by the subject.

INFORMANTS

T-1

T-2

T-3

T-4

T-5

CG 6218-C who was contacted by SA VINCENT L.

INSERRA on February 27, 1959.

GEORGE MACHADO, Route 1, Linder, California, who

was contacted by SA. JOSEPH T. DALY of the San

Francisco Office on January 28, 1959.

who was contacted. by

SA JOHN W. ROBERTS, Jr. on February 1l, 18, 1959.

SU 370-C who was contacted by SA BRYON C. WHEELER

of the Salt Lake City Office in March of 1959.

PCI

who was contacted by SA PAUL B.

FRANKFURT On March 18, 1959.

JEK Act 6 (4)

- B-

COVER PAGE

NW 45792 DocId: 32290197 Page 5

---

