# docid-32315099

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10339-10063

RECORD SERIES :

BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ELSUR 92-61-1-222

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BU

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/07/1962

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

STEVE MAGADDINO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

49.1

DocId: 32315099

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of. 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-143 (12-28-60)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

(Bufile 92-4227

JUNE

DATE:

12/7/62

FROM : SAC, BUFFALO (92-61-Sub

SUBJEOT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONEINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SUNVETILANCE

RE: Title

VINCENT A. SCRO

Character of Case

Field Office

AR

Buffalo

Symbol Number

BU 82-0*

Type of Surveillance: (Technical or

Microphone)

Microphone

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

STEVE MAGADDINO, aka

2.

Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

office of VINCENT A SCRO, nd floor, Camellia Linen Supply CO.

Inè., 460 E. Delavan Ave.,

Buffalo, N.

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Buffalo Office

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Authorization - 3/24/61

Installation

4/4/61

5. Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places):

BU 280-C* was Installed 11/8/62 in an office of the Magaddino

Memorial Chapel, at Niagara Falls, N. Y.

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

a. Is a trunk line utilized? Not applicable.

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

NO:

c. Is the surveillance

on a public coin-operated telephone?

- Bureau (RM)

- Buffalo

(LFA: amb)

Registered Mail

Ame

- Senio?

No.

ahe

92-61-1-222

DocId: 32315099 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line? Private line.

e. If a party line, how many parties? Not applicable.

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One microphone located in the telephone connection bloek

on the wall near the desk of VINCENI A. SeRO.

Is the installation pärt of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

9.

Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

See attached,

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No.

11.

Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Subject is know to five live informants who know subject

and his father-in-law, STEVE MAGADDINO, but cannot supply

12.

information furnished by BU 82-0*.

Has security factor changed since installation?

13, 119 to quest jor the survaillance by cutsido agenoy (give nama, title and

No.

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises: None. Plant located Buffalo Office.

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant. Seven.

-2.-

DocId: 32315099 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the Join F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-61-Sub 1

9.

9/6/62

FRED RANDACCIO, the number one man for STEVE

MAGADDINO, contacted STEVE MAGADDINO for advice as to

what action he should take against SAM QUARCINI, who had

been working with the police.

RANDACCIO had been

unsuccessful

in getting QUARCINI to come to Buffalo.

It

1s, noted that QUARCINI, a Niagara Falls, N. Y.,

gambler, has been active in unton affairs in Nagara

Falls

and operating without the sanotions of STEVE MAGADDINO.

SAM QUARCINI 18 also a criminal informant, having

symbol number BU 259-C.

9/18/62

JOSEPH TODARO, aka "Lead Pipe Joe," operator of

the LaNova Pizzeria, complained to VINGENT A SCRO that

JAMES MUFFOLETTO, Deputy Commissioner of the New York State

Liquor Authority, Buffalo. N. Y., hadrecen holding up his:

application for a Liquor Leense for more than five

months.

TODARO relates, that MUNFOLETTO had incleated that

certain parties had to be taken care of before TODARO

could get his Liquor License.

TODARO was advised by SCRO

that 1f he could not get satisfaction from any other source,

he should take these problems up with STEVE MAGADDINO or consider

contacting a coustn of SAM RANGATORE, who is on the New York

State Llquor Board in New York City»

9/24/62

A meeting was held in the office of VINCENT A.

SCRO to diseuss the sale and distribution of treasury

balance biekets fnethe Western New York area.

Those

present were identified as STEVE MAGADDINO, VINCENT A. SCRO,

PASQUALE NATARELET, ERED G. RANDACCIO,

JAMES V. LA DUGA

and CHARLES A. MONTANA. During the meeting, NATARELLI

advised MAGADDINO that

FRANK DONINIC BAGOUT, o1 syracuse,

Yo, could set a couple of big treasury balance accounts

in Pa. and N. J.0

since

LOUIS COHEN had died in Pa.

-2a-

DocId: 32315099 Page 4

---

