# docid-32307180

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/22/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10291-10320

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-117262-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/24/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF INS

COMMENTS : REFERRED TO INS, INC LHM

19.1

DocId: 32307180

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released®

under the "John F.Lkennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE :

11

.017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

JSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

May 24, 1963

Re:

Julio C. Sanchez-Martinez;

Myriam Finkelman y Winer,

also

known as Myriam F. Sanchez

Internal security - Cuba

Records of the Immigration and Naturalization Service

Agent 2o west Broadway, New York city, as reviewed by Special

C. Dale Schwant

on May 15, 1903, reflected the subject

was interviewed by INS on July 12, 1961.. In the course of the

interview, Finkelman stated she went to Cuba with her family

•Irom Foland in 1930,

and that she became a naturalized Cuban

citizen in about 1944 or 1945.

She stated other members of her

family emigrated from Cuba to the United States, but she stayed

there to Ilnish her studies. she stated at the

her studio line

time of the

interview that she wanted to stay in the United states permanently.

She previously enteredthe United States for permanent residence

on November 18, 1957, at Miami, under a Z-2 classification, and

stayed two and one half years.

She returned to Cuba in 1959 to

see about her belongings.

She stated that she had never been a

member of the Partido Socialista Popular and that she is not a

Communist, but an individualist.

When questioned as to what

she thought concerning the Castro Government, she stated, "Well,

to me they are a bunch of kids playing with fire. I dont think

they know exactly what they are doing."

She stated her mother

Is Ana Winer and that she resides at 13 Walton Street, Portland,

Maine, and that she is

a citizen. She advised"that, she has two

brothers, Solomary rinkelman, 3105 S.W. 79th Avenue, Miami, Florida,

and Sam Benton, 2220 Calais Drive, Miami Beach ETorida®

Other records at INS reflect Myriam Finkelman was born

on February 15, 1922, at Wolyn, Poland, and that her Cuban Pass-

port number

was 34059.

She was a full professor at the University

de las Villas from 1956 to 1957. She obtained her Ph.D. degree

from the University of Havana, on July 30, 1949. An affidavit.

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI

and is loaned to your

agency: it and its contents

are

not to be distributed outside your •

agency.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1/19/15 BY p.300

50k10350

DocId: 32307180

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the Jöhn T.

• Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 fote).

DATE : 11-14-2017

Re:

Julio C. Sanchez-Martinez;

Myriam Finkelman y Winer.,

also

known as Myriam F. Sanchez.

issued by her on June 28, 1961, reflected she was single

and resided in Cuba since January o, 1901, ana not in the

Inited States because she was unable to find suitable

employment in the United States.

She was then employed in

Cuba at the University of Santa Clara as an English professor.

-2-

961-10350

DocId: 32307180

Page 3

---

