# docid-32327315

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotê).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/5/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90062-10013

HQ

CR 105-85082-18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/23/1960

2

MARVIN KANTOR

REMBERT CAVEN ALLEY JR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

/ CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

y9.1

DocId: 32327315

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the Jou I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot dI 1992 (11 USE 3107 Notè).

- DATE: 11-11-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

DEUCER STATES G

ERNMENT

Memorandum

56685101

25X

CLASSIFIED BY.

DECLASS!

JFK)

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-85082)

-FROM : SAC, CHICAGO (105-7568)

DATE: 11/23/60

SECRET

11-21-94

Released under the Jou I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot dI 1992 (11 USE 3107 Notè).

Released under the Jou I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot AI 1992 (11 USS 3107 Hotè).

SUBJECT:

REMBERT CAVEN ALLEY, JR.

IS - R - DENMARK

Declassif

00: Chicago

Released under the Jou I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot AI 1992 (11 USS 3107 Hotè).

(JFK)

Released under the Jou I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot AI 1992 (11 USS 3107 Hotè).

Re letter from Deputy Director,.

Plans, CIA,

Director,

dated 10/26/60,

cationed "Soviet Contacts with

Americans in Denmark. 'S) (U)

RE

55 East Washington Blvd., Chicago.

MME

The information pertaining to ALLEY in referenced

letter is set forth in such summary

• form that it is believed

Released under the Jou I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot AI 1992 (11 USS 3107 Hotè).

HEREIN

See clarification in necessare before this to oration is ale thes

-seminated

¿subject.

for proper consideration given to an interview of

Released under the Jou I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot AI 1992 (11 USS 3107 Hotè).

Released under the Jou I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot AI 1992 (11 USS 3107 Hotè).

Specifically, the "firm doing military constructiong

Released under the Jou I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot AI 1992 (11 USS 3107 Hotè).

in Greenland" which employed ALLEY in Denmark should be iden-

Released under the Jou I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot AI 1992 (11 USS 3107 Hotè).

RELEASE OF CIA iNFORMATION,

Released under the Jou I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot AI 1992 (11 USS 3107 Hotè).

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP

SED/ KSR 1-15-98

tified.

Previous information was

ALLEY was only a student

of architecture while in Denmark.

Likewise, MARVIN KANTOR, a

an acquaintance of ALLEY

whom he apparently introduced to VLADISLAV M. ABARCHALIN, T

should be identified.

If KANTOR

is unknown to the Bureau,

Chicago will set

information.

forth appropriate leads to obtain background

coursed

ís believed, that a more detailed explanation

i necessary ReTen Lotter not ted as to whether E

their first meeting

was arranged merely as a social

or involved ABARCHALIN

engagement

and his "two wives. 'E(S

covered

It is also noted that the initial contact between

ABARCHALIN

and subject, according to information furnished byla

REC-'57

105-85082018

Bureau

(RM)

- Chicago

RHN/ amf

(3)

1851 DEC 7

1960

NOV 25 1960

EX. " I82

DocId: 32327315 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017÷

CG 105-6568

SECRET

Legat, London, occurred on 10/20/59xwhilex0TA'

in referenced (e

letter, states the first contact was 10/25/59.7(S(u)

Chicago files contain

• information identifiable

with MARVIN KANTOR Or WILLIAM VALENCIA. NO LOC

If the Bureau does not

receipt of information from Legat, London who, by Chicago

ONS JENSEN

no additional request is being made of the Legat, London

until a comparison can be made

between information from that

source and CIA information The Bureau may wish to furnish (§(U)

Legat, London a copy of referenced letter if this has not

already been done.

By separate communication a lead is being set

forth for St. Louis to attempt to locate the Army Service

record of the subject.

Also, FD 227 is being forwarded to the Bureau

to request a mail cover on subject's residence.

=P =

-2-

SECRET

105-850823181

/ DocId: 32327315 Page 3

---

