# docid-32292353

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10209-10129

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-445

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: COOK, ROBERT A.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/13/1962

PAGES:

25

SUBJECTS :

GAL, RES, TRA, ASSOC, GAMBLING, B/F INT, TESUR, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES la, 1b

v9.1

NW 45679

DocId: 32292353

390

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CG 92-373

INFORMANTS

CG T-1 is CG 6343-C*.

CG T-2 is CG 6443-C, who was contacted by SAs

WILLIAM A. MEINCKE

and JOSEPH G. SHEA from December 8, 1961,

through February 7, 1962.

CG T-6 is PCI [

ROCk i December 8, 1961, thront ted bast,

CG T-9 is CG 6343-C*.

CG T-18 is CG 6272-C, who was contacted by SA WILLIAM

F. ROEMER on December 8, 196k.

CG T-25 is CG 6486-C*.

CG T-27 is a mail cover on the mailing address of

GUS ALEX at 9353 South Spaulding,

Evergreen Park, Illinois.

CG T-29 is CG 6502-C*.

on December T-19 15 C& 6198-PC, contacted by SA RORME

Capon me a control ye ok, on 705, 2 9 each

CG T-32 is CG 6502-C*.

CG T-33 is CG 6232-C, contacted by SA MEINCKE on

December 12, 1961.

by SA VINCEN TH. LNG PA 0

contacted

1 December 8, 1961.

OTHER 4

COVER PAGE

NW 45679 DocId: 32292353 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-373

trouble PEARLMAN would bring his problems to KOLITZ and

KOLITZ in turn would see GUS ALEX or one of his associates

in order to get the matter straightened out.

He stated that

KOLITZ was also formerly connected with the Blatz Distributing

Company in Chicago and is believed to have secured this

employment because he knew GUS ALEX.

STEVD DE ROSTA...

CG T-2 advised that STEVE DE KOSTA is a very close

friend of ALEX.

He said that DE KOSTA has taken over in the

management of My Lady Fair, a new key club on the Near North

Side of Chicago.

It is to

be noted that DE KOSTA was

reportedly the former owner of the Hucksters Club and

' the

Old Chicago Room, which are both now out of business.

CG T-2 stated that ALEX used to frequent the Hucksters: Club

CG T-2was under the impression that ALEX and HINRY SUSK, were

the actual owner of the Old Chicago Room and that. DE KOSTA

was just a front for them.

HENRY SUSK

CG T-29 advised that HENRY SUSK, owner of Henry

Susk Pontiac, Chicago, is a very close friend of GUS ALEX.

He stated that he received information that SUSK was in the

company of ALEX during the latter part of January, 1962. It

is to be noted that SUSK in the past has admitted lending

ALEX automobiles to use whenever he requested one.

NICK* CONTOS

Mr. NIKOLAOS NIKITAKIS, Aliens Directorate,

continues

Greece.

nor ac

activities which would be the subject of any police action.

It is to be noted that CG T-27 has advised that ALEX has

received mail in

the past from NICK CONTOS residing in

Athens, Greece.

-4 -

9097-3153-445

NW 45679 DocId: 32292353

Page 3

---

