# docid-32305210

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10287-10340

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2035

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NK

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/21/1967

'PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS:

LCN, ASSOC, THP, LEADERSHIP, STRUCTURE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305210

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 210, Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

312-604

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

T0:

F BI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority)

6/21/67

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, NEWARK (92-1203)

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR-CONSPIRACY

RE: Newark teletype 6/8/67

On 6/21/67, NK 2376-C-TE advised that the leadership

structure decided on

for the BONANNO family a few weeks ago

has again been changed. At the present time, there have been no

new decisions made, but PAUL SCIACCA, New York City, has been

placed in charge of the family on a temporary basis until a

decision can be made.

According to the source, JOSEPH ZICARELLI, top NJ

hoodlum, has been dropped as underboss and is without a position

of leadership at the present time. The "New York boys"

, Who were

in the habit of visiting ZICARELLI on almost a daily basis, no

longer visit him since he has lost his position.

The source stated that he had learned that SCIACCA wi1]

remin in charge of the tamily until a linal decision is made.

ins decision will be made by representatives fron five families

and will be a binding one.

The source reiterated that the

problen lies in the fact that JOSEPH BONANNO is unwilling to

step aside gracefully and still hopes to regain his old power

and position.

EX-113

REC- 25

DIAC 00

Bureau (REGISTERED MAIL)

1

New York (92-2300) (REGISTERED MAIL)

Newark

SPC :hde

TaN SS

(G)

c. wich

Approved:

coUNSpend Agent in Charge

Sent

даля

19292-6054-2035

JON 22 1967

Per

DocId: 32305210

Page 2

---

