# docid-32288848

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10200-10124

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-9-1429

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, CG

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/11/1963

3

CIP, LIAISON OF RCMP

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO, LTR

V9.1

DocId: 32288848

17

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F: Kennedy Assassination-Reeords Collection Aet of 1942 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

12/11/63

AIRIEL

TO :

FROM:

EX-105

SAC, Chicago

REG®

Director, FBJ

WALTER HARVEY LINK

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

62-9-9-1491

Enclosed are copies of self-explanatory communications

fron Legat, Ottawa,

transmitting a request of RCHP for available

information concerning

an enterprise known as Rilton Carpets,

Chicago, Illinois.

The desired information should be promptly obtained and

furnished to the Bureau not later than

12/21/63 in letterhead form

suitable

for dissemination.

Enclosures

. (2)

NOTE: The subject has

been associated with Gilbert Lee Beckley,

a prominent U. S. Gambler, who has been the subject of Bureau

Investigation. He is also connected with a firm known as Hilton

Carpets, described as a high pressure rugs

sale outfit in the

home improvement rackets

association.

area.

RCMP desires info as to this

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

¡Gandy.

MALLEE 2

DES 12:

COMM-EBI

86181962

MAY ROOM TA

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32288848

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John Fo Kennedy Assassination Recorts Collection Act of 1992 TIT Isc

DATE: 11-14-2017

5-82 (Rev: 429-57)

Date: DECEMBER 2, 1963

To:

Director, FBI

(Bufile :

Attention

Title

WALTER HARVEY LINK

92-69

Character

AR

Reference

Enclosed are the following communications received from the RCMP: Original and two

copies

of RCMP letter dated 11/28/63, which is self-explanatory.

Remarks:

CRIMINAD INTELLI SENCE PROGRAMM. CHICASO

GILBERT LEE BECKLEY is subject of Bufile 92-3625.

DEC 5 1963

Dissemination

May be made as received

May be made as indicated by stamp on enclosure

May not be made without further clearance with RCMP

Following offices would be interested in receiving copies of enclosures:

Chicago

Status with this office:

RUC

Pending

3

- Bureau (Encs

(1- Chicago)

1

Ottawa

MLI: MEG

(4)1

ENCLOSU

3)

• DEC 55 1963

3t0

Do not

write in

space

below

182-9-91

1427 8c.18

EX,105

DocId: 32288848

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection

DATE: 11-14-2017

1992741 056-2107 Hotel.

ADDRESS DESPONDENCE TO BE

THE COMMISSIONEH,

R. C.M. POLICE,

FILE NO.

HQ-1232-Q-1-5

HEADQUARTERS

OTTAWA,

CANADA

November 28, 1963.

In Moses on officer,

United

States Embassy,

100 Wellington Street,

Ottawa, Ontario.

Re:

Walter Harves

LINK

Canada

20/74

59-11

LINK has been the subject of previous

correspondence between us,

most

recently in

connection with his association

with the prominent

U.S. gambler Gilbert Lee BECKLEY.

LINK is, of

course, a prominent racket figure in this

country

and is

presently operating out of Vancouver, BoC canadA

LINK's most recent venture is the Hilton Carpet

Contractors Lta., a high pressure

rug sales outfit

operating in the

home improvement rackets area.

The Hilton firm is known to be presently active

in British Columbia and Alberta.

During enquiries

into the Hilton operation we have noted the presence

of at least two former Chicago criminals

Leslie

PLANTING,

FBI #987869, and Morris KERNESS.

Both

of these

individuals have also

been the subject

of correspondence between us.

₴963, 1V .

The Saturday Ivening Post of November 9,

carried an article entitled "Crime in America,

On page 26 in a paragraph headed "They

Can't Understand", mention

is made of a Felix

ALDERISIO and his

involvement with the sacking of

a Chicago firm,

Hilton Carpets.

In view. of the

similarity of the name of the

latter firm and

coupled with the presence of Chicago

LINk's outfit anada, the thought occurs that there

criminals in

nay possibly be a connectionfel

We would very much appreciate

any infor-

mation the Bureau might be able to obtain regarding

Hilton Carpets in Chicago, including incorporation

details, officials,

and any other persons, particularly

from the criminal element, who may be involved.

GatIones,

insp.,.

Asst. Office

in Charge,

Criminal Investigation Branch.

DocId:

---

