# docid-32289292

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:.

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10201-10068

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-219

Released under the John

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NH 45679 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/23/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

GAL, GAMBLING, SURVEILLANCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45679

192

DocId: 32289292

Page 1

---

## Page 2

F5-36 (Rev. 12-13-50)

FBI

Trenant the coloving in

Date: 5/23/61

Via

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3182)

FROM : SAC, CHICAGO (92-373)

SUBJECT:

GUS

ALEX, aka.

AR

DAILY SUMMARY

It has been

previously reported that one SID

FRAZIN formerly worked

as a collection Agent for ALEX's

gambling interests in South State Street area and that he

disappeared last summer after he allegedly converted some

of his collection money to his own use.

in Chicago, but could not furnish any information

regarding his present residence. Records of Chicago

Police Department disclose that the last known address for

FRAZIN was 4422 West Monroe Street.

Inquiry at this

address disclosed FRAZIN currently residing there but

was unavailable for interview. A message was left for

him to contact this office as soon as he returned to.

his residence.

CG 6232-C advised that FRANK "SKID" CARUSO

had recently approached him and wanted him to run a

floating crap game for CARUSO in the area covered by the

Deering Police District.

Informant stated that he

turned down CARUSO's proposal because a brother of

JIMMY MC GEE PULLANO was to be a cutter at the crap game

and was to receive $1.00 each time the dice were thrown.

Informant stated that cutting is a common pI

face.

all crap games; however, the house usually

ens This 82-9717

3 - Bureau

1 - Chicago

B MAY 25 1961

RAC/jjs/djs

(4)

REC: 113

(Q0E Wichi

Pe

5 MAY

Charge

NW 45679 DocId: 32289292

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92 373

money as part of their profit and he saw no reason for

any of the PULLANO family profitings to this extent

for doing nothing.

Informant further advised that he

believes that JIMMY MC GEEIPULLANO is running a book in

a building just East of the Louise E.

Berg Hospital

located on Cermak Road. Informant stated this building

has a real estate office fronting on the Street and

that there is a "For Rent" sign in the window.

He stated that when discussing the floating crap

game with CARUSO, he talked to CARUSO at this building:

Informant stated

that there are numerous phones in the

cellar of the building but that the cellar can only be

reached by entering an adjacent building and going

downstairs and through the basement to the location of

the book.

He advised that MC GEE PULLANO owns the

builing East of the real estate office.

He stated that

while talking to CARUSO at the above location, he met

JIMMY MC GEE PULLANO.

Informant stated that PULLANO is

the auditor of all the handbooks from about 22nd Street

to 100th Street on the South Side of Chicago. He

stated that PULLANO works with CARUSO and FRANK FERRARO

and that the profits from these books

is divided in half

with the "Outfit" and that ALEX receives income from

these books.

Surveillances in vicinity of Sir-Mak Realty Company,

238 West Cermak Road by Agents disclosed that a number

of men were observed entering and leaving this building

and that entry was gained by ringing a door bell.

The

activity appeared to be in a back room of the realty

company.

A 1959 blue Chevrolet convertible with Illinois

registration GW-2874 was noted in the area and its

occupant was noted entering and leaving the realty company.

Co. 371 vag no ed

Registration for the Chevrolet is listed to ROCKO MAIDA,

211 West 23rd Street. Above observations by Agents

lends credence to informants belief that book is

operating at Sir-Mak Realty Company.

Investigation

being conducted to identify ROCKO MAIDA and JIMMY MC GEE.

PULLANO.

ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

-2 =

NW 45679 DocId: 32289292 Page 3

---

