# docid-32335470

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90124-10028

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 03/11/1975

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ALADDIN M ALTAYYAR

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32335470

Page 1

8

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kénnedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UTTED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

MAR 1 1 1975

SECRET

SA 10Е0CHA10S 90M73

ASSIFIES

CHI WNEME SHOWE

SENSAWISE

Aladdin M.

Al-TayYar (S)

1 confidential source advised that Aladdin Al-Tayyar, C>=

'irst Secretary to the Irag Mission to the United Nations in (S

New York, has made extensive inquiry in the United States

concerning the purchase of sophisticated weaponry. In January,

1975, an individual named William Apikian,

21 Avenue de Jour, CS

Ferney-Voltaire, France, arrived in the United States from

europe and also became Involved withAl-Tayyar in negotiations (S_

with American arms' dealers. J

Lamong the individuals with whomApikian]and @1-Tayyar) (S]

have had discussions are Rosser Scott Reeves, III,

of Quantum

Corporation, Cromwell Corporation of New York, and Military

Armament Corporation, Marietta, Georgia; George Salesky, of

Military Armament Corporation, Marietta, Georgia; Mitchell

Werbell, III and Mitchell Werbell, IV, of Defense Systems,

Powder Springs, Georgia; and Charles W. Goff, of American

International Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Another governmental agency, that conducts criminal

and security investigations, advised that a shipment of weapons,

including sub-machineguns with sound suppressors, were sent

to BY Stood Strude

PICASON: 1.5 (C,di)

DEOLAGSIFY ON: X

Sources mentioned herein have furnished

reliable information in the past unless

otherwise indicated.

6-5795

Classified by 500& SkASe

Classified ky

4339

Exempt from

SHy aN: PAOR /JFK

NDS, Catogory

Date of Declassification ladelinite

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

Tos 263921-3170

HER

SECRET

2 & 3

DocId: 32335470 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

LEADS

Will attempt to fully identify William Apikian CS_

and furnish background information concerning him, including

-nationality, if known, and whether he is in possession

of French travel documents.

vill ascertain whether there S-

Is any known connection between (Apikian and Arab terrorist (S

Will attempt to identify a female named

Katilish (last name unknown) who may reside at the same CS.

áddress as (Apikian, and determine if there is any indication s

of her involvement with Arab terrorist organizations S

mentioned herein.

SECRET

-2*-

DocId: 32335470

Page 3

---

