# docid-32290816

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

- RECORD NUMBER : 124-10206-10092

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-488

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/05/1962

3

GAL, ASSOC, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC RESP

v9.1

DocId: 32290816

Page 1

325

---

## Page 2

"Released under the

John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DAIR

11-14-2017

S. 4-11 (FRey: 3-5-62)

Tase

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr _

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel _

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

• Radio

Ex Teletype

DEFERRED

/ TO DIRECTOR

4-5-62-

9-36 AM CST

EAH

imes

trews 1-

FROM SAC CHICAGO

051140

GUS

'ALEX, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

IN VIEW OF INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM CG 6502-0%

THAT ALEX WAS FREQUENTING THE HARTFORD HOUSE RESTAURANT,

THE GENERAL MANAGER, GEORGE NO SEELT, HAS BEEN INTERVIEWED

ON TWO OCCASIONS. SEELT VERIFIED THE FACT THAT ALEX AND

SOME OF HIS HOODLUM ASSOCIATES HAVE BEEN VISITING THE

RESTAURANT FOR THE PAST SEVERAL MONTHS. SEELT IS OF

THE OPINION THAT THESE ARE SOMETIMES SCHEDULED MEETINGS AND

FEELS THAT BUSINESS IS DISCUSSED BY THEM AT THESE MEETINGS.

HE SAID THAT THE HOODLUMS CONTACT AT HARTFORD HOUSE

IS JULES RIESER. AND THAT RIESER KNOWS THE IDENTITY OF

ALEX AND HIS ASSOCIATES AND KEEPS HIM INFORMED WHENEVER

THEY MEET AT THE RESTAURANT. SEELT SAID THAT WHENEVER

ALEX OR HIS ASSOCIATES VISIT THE RESTAURANT, THEY ALWAYS

OCCUPY ONE OF THREE BOOTHS IN THE REAR OF THE FRENCH ROOM.

THIS ROOM IS A VERY EXCLUSIVE RESTAURANT AND HE MOST

EXPENSIVE OF THE FOUR RESTAURANTS AT HARTFORD HOUSE 93-

1318

EX. - 102 0

2-488

SEELT HAS BEEN VERY COOPERATIVE AND HAS AGREED TO CABL12 1962

THE AGENT CONTACTING HIM WHENEVER ALEX OR ANY OF HIS

Let&

mac

16%

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32290816 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017 ~

6 4-41 (Reñ. 3-5-62)

90,0

DECODED COPY

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans -

Malone -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes —

Gandy -

Radio

PAGE TWO

• Teletype

FROM SAC CHICAGO

051140

ASSOCIATES VISIT THE RESTAURANT IN THE FUTURE. INDICES

NEGATIVE RE SEELT AND HE IS BEING MADE A PCI.

BUREAU AUTHORITY IS REQUESTED TO CONDUCT A PRELIMINARY

SURVEY AT THE HARTFORD HOUSE RESTAURANTS FOR POSSIBLE

CONFIDENTIAL COVERAGE.

ALEX IS ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

RECEIVED:

10:46 AM

MEL

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's crypto raphic systems.

DocId: 32290816

Page 3

---

