# docid-32293902

## Page 1

Released under the John F: Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10212-10178

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

89-1333-34

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

11/20/1967

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS:

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 2;4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF EOUSA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32293902

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

11/20/67

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

(89-1333)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS

(89-79)

CARLOS MARCELLO, aka;

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR. - VICTIM

AFO

USA LOUIS C. LACOUR, Eastern District of Louisiana,

New Orleans, confidentially advised 11/20/67 that he had a

private discussion with Federal District Judge FREDERICK J. R

HEEBE, EDLA.

Judge HEEBE advised that he is transferring

for trial.

Judge HEEBE is

as he has determined the best method of conducting the

transfer without raising the question of "reversible error"

on his part. Judge HEEBE pointed out to USA LACOUR that

MARCELLO had raised an issue hitherto unraised in law when

he filed

a motion for change of venue and then attempted to

rescind the motion.

Judge HEEBE feels that MARCELLO, no matter what

happens, will appeal on the grounds that he has a right to

be tried in the jurisdiction where the offense occurred, as

per the 6th Amendment to the Constitution.

Judge HEEBE

stated that under the 6th Amendment, MARCELLO also has the

right to

a fair and impartial trial and MARCELLO claimed, at

the hearing, that he could not get a fair and impartial trial

due to Life magazine articles

relative to him and subsequent

statements by the Louisiana Governor.

DO NOT DISSEMINATE OUTSIDÉ THE BUREAU.

6) - Bureau

(3) - 89-1333) (3-92-2713)

3

- New Orleans

PJC: sam

(9)

C-21

1& NOV: 22

19604

30

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32293902 Page 2

---

