# docid-32401466

## Page 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD

SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

: CIA

: 104-10310-10083

: JFK

: CIA/DDP/FILES

DOCUMENT. INFORMATION

Released

under the John

' Rennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

ase#:NW 53320 Date:

06-24-2017

: CIA

: FR/WASHINGTON-

: DIRECTOR

: CABLE: REPORTS THAT EVENING 10 DEC ALFREDO PILA DE

ARMAS

12/11/1975

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

/ TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION

PILA DE ARMAS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1A

CURRENT STATUS RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/07/04

COMMENTS : JEK-M-07 : F3

: 20040323-1063152

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10310-10083

HH 53320

DooId: 32401466

Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNCLASSIFIED

INT

USL

'AL

NLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFID TIAL

1110

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Richard

A: Fuller

2B-1:415

Assistant to the SA/DDO

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

I Review Staff

Attn'::

Mr. Elder

12/16

2.

SA/DDO

EXTENSION

9018

OFFICER'S

. INITIALS

NO

DATE

15 December 1975

COMMENTS (Number, each comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

Tulie EW=!.

1 to 2. Pleace

shad

attacked. letter fom the

Director to Son, Church.

10.

DEC 16 3 41 PM 75

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

610 USE

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

NN 53320

DocId: 32401466 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ms. Elder

It seems o me that

a suitably sterilied

weid in a ln corled

SA/DIO

Date

5-75 101

USE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

HH

53320

DocId: 32401466

Page

3:

---

## Page 4

8 - 2 HUNE

REPAODUCTION BY OTHER THAP

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIDITED

SMAR

т 529543

1S5080

FA

7100 2

ALE ACTION COBSO, DUL, DlOC,

CSRE

E! 4651

"Ege enly"

PAGE 01+

IN 768241

TOR1112327 Z DEC 75

WAFF

211&

SE C

112245Z DEO 75 STAFF

14÷30

CITE FRAWASHINGTON 21182

T0: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

RYBAT PLAUHIDE

#USLAB REFORTS THAT EVENING 18 DEC ALFREDO PILA DE

ARMAS OF THE CUBAN MISSION TO UN TELEPHONED HIM AND ASKED

12 DEc DEc75

WUSLAB TO MEET HIM AT THE HOLIDAY INN.

2. (BASE PASSED FOLLOWING TO FBI/FOS: .

A/DDO

A. BASE SOURCE FRANKLIN LAS TELEPHONED EY ALFREDO PILA

• DE ARMAS, SECONE SECRETARY, CUBAN MISSION TO THE UNITED NATIONS,

ON 18 DECEMBER, PILA ASKED FRANKLIN TO MEET HIM AT 173D HOURS

AT THE HOLIDAY INNA 15TH AND RHODE ISLAND. NW, WIC, WHERE PILA

IS STAYING IN FOOM 106 UNTIL 12 DECEMBER, .

B. AT THE MEETING, WHICH TOOK PLACE IN THE LOBBY OF THE

HOTEL, PILA INFORMED FRANKLIN HE IS IN DO BECAUSE OF SPECIAL

INSTRUCTIONS EFOM PREMIER FIDEL CASTRO TO CONTACT FRIENDS OF

CUBA, IN SENATUR CHURCH'S REPORT THERE ARE TEN NAMES: OF AGENTS

THAT. ALLEGEDLY WERE INVOLVED IN ATTEMPTS TO KILL CASTRO: HOW-

EVER, PILA ALLEGED THAT IT IS KNOWN FROM THE NEWSPAPERS THERE

HERE THIRTY NAMES GIVEN TO CHURCHIS COMMITTEE BY CIA DIRECTOR

HH 53320 DocId: 32401466

Page 4

---

## Page 5

DnM 30200

_PER

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

REPRODUCTION

OTHERINE:

ISSUING OPTICK IS

#HOMIDITE

FENSCH UNI! NOTHIEN

STAFF

M0DD0011E6

BY.

AT

KI

FILE

vie

N

ACTIUR A

IN 768041

528842

E1 A551

FAGE 62-U2

TOR: 1: 2527Z CEC 75

h'A FR

21102

-EDLEY, BUT MA COLBY HAD INDUCED CHURCH TO MAKE TEN NAMES PUBLIC

ANE THENTY NAMES MERE MITAMELD, CASTRO NEEDS THE THENTY NAMES.

¡NIS 1S THE PURPOSE OF PILA'S TRIP TO DO, PILA STATED THAT IF

EL EMANCE FRANKLIN HAD SEEN A DRAFT REPORT OR KNEW OF ANYONE WHO

RiãA THE NAMES, FILA DS CFERING SZSCREE FOR EACH NAME, BESIDES

THE MONEY, THE PERSON NHO COMES UP WITNTHE NAMES WILL ALSO GET

¿ STATUE ERECTEO iN HAVANA. PILA HINTED HE HAS TENTATIVELY

IDENTIFIED TEN GRUELiSMED DATES AND ONLY NEEDS TEN MORE.

FRANKLIN TOLD PILA HE THOUGHT

IT HOULD BE DIFFICULT TO GET THE

NAMESO AND FILA STATED HE IS CENTACTING EVERYONE HE KNONS IN THE

IC AREA FOR LEADS.

PEND PASSAGE TO FBIS

3.

BASE ADVISED NFO TELEFCONICALLY OF PARA THO ASGVE.*

FILE BEFER.

EZ IMPOET.

S E

, HW 53320

DocId: 32401466

Page

---

## Page 6

SEGRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

Executive Ragistry

15-9983

15 0E0 1975

The Honorable Frank Church

Chairman

Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations with Respect to Intelligence

Activities

United States Senate

Washington, D. C. 20510

REVIEW STAFF

575-3659

Dear Mi. Chairman:

We have infornation from a reliable source that the Second

Secretary of the Cuban Mission to the United Nations is in Washington

on the basis of special instructions from Premier Fidel Castro to

contact "friends. of Cuba." This individual has said that he is in

search of twenty names withheld from the report on assassinations.

He is searching for anyone who has seen the draft report or anyone

who knows what names were deleted. He is offering $25, 000 for each

name and says the person who comes up with the names would also

get a statue erected in Havana. He hinted he has tentatively identified

ten unpublished names and only needs ten more.

This information has

been passed to the FBI.

I would hope in view of this information that you will take all

appropriate measures to ensure that deleted names do not fall into the.

hands of the Cubans.

Sincerely,

151 Bill

W. E. Colb:

Director

CLASSIFIED GY -

009668

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DEC: 935/10:

SCHEDULE OF ED. 11S52. EXETION CATFOORY:

girl la! len to faircle are or more

ViDATICALLY DECUISSIFIED Oi

Date Impossible tó Determine

dualass impassiblo, insert dole or avent)

HW 53320

DocId: 32401466 Page 6

AFRI

DDO: WEN:pc(13 Dec. 1975)

Distribution:

Orig - addressee

1 - DCI

- DDCI

C/Rev Staff

- DDO Reg

•1 - C/FR

1- SA/DDO

---

