# docid-32164534

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10156-10005

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 105-82555-132

Released under the John

• Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 55355 Date:

11-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BRENNAN, D. J.

TO: SULLIVAN, W. C.

TITLE:

DATE: 12/04/1963

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT: LHO, NSA PROJECT, NEG

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

03/02/1999

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

If 55355 DocId: 32164534

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-04

MAT 1902 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATE

IMENT

Memorandum

olson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

De Loach -

Evgns

TO

Mr. N. C. Sullivanu le

FROM : D. J. Brennan, Jr. /9

DATE:

December 4, 1963

wer

6/10,92

Classited by 9803nd

ON PARI

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room.

Holmes -

Gandy -

ORSEGRET

SUBJECT: LEE HARVEY

OSWALD

INTERNAL SECURITY - R

My memo of 11/26/63 advised that National Security Agency

• (NSA)

is undertaking a project to determine whether recent radio traffic

between= Cuba, and U.S:, which is on file at NSA, may possibly contain

any intormation of significance in captioned case.

This is to be done

through, a computer process, whereby messages

containing the name and

aliases of Oswald,

as well as any significant addresses and contacts.

which wenfurnish NSA,will be mechanically selected for further study

advised tatson agent that is To compeda that proto this project

Involving the namesA examned and no messages containing this name were

detected. Also,

between Cuba and New Orleans

and Cuba and Dallas and nothing significant was noted.

Young advised

that this project covers only messages since 10/6/63 as these are the

only ones which were recorded on tape and

are thereby susceptible to

examination through the computer process

(The Cuba - U.S. traffic is

too voluminous for personal examination)

Young'advised that NSA will

carry this project further to

include checking for messages containing the names of significant

contacts of the subject as well as significant addresses,

we furnish NSA such contacts and addresses from our investigation re

ACTION:

DECLASSIFIED BY. 3668 SeO/SCl

ON. 335/99 (PiR NSS LAR: 08 2/20/98)

( 4)

This is for information.

or 11/30/633 Soviet Jestion will give

As noted in referenced memo

consideration

as

to additional

names and addresses

we may be able to furnish NSA from

results of our

investigation in this case

DEC 2 1527010003

GHL: mab (8) Tab

. - Mr. Belmont

+ C- 29)

105-3255-5-132

Mr.

Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

6 1963

Mr.

Mr.

Branigan? lAttn: Ne.

-Tu

WISE

HERSIN T

Wanna11

Liaison

TumE

- Mr. Lake

1/8/11 He

58 DEC 9 196/01L

CLA

EXEMPT PRON

DATE OF

2040

#CATION INDEF

NISE

NW 55355 DooId: 32164534 Page 2

---

