# docid-32288339

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10199-10115

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-163

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/23/1961

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

GAL, FINANCES, ASSOC, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

4

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32288339

Page 1

137

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DAJE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF IRVESTIGATIOR

U. § DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTON

MAR 2 DOLL

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Mohr

Vir. Belmont

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLa

Mr. Even

Mr. Maton

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

• Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

URCENT 3=25-61

11-15 PM CLM

TOLDIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

FROM SAC, CHICAGO

192-373/ 4P

CUS ALEX, AKA, ARO

DAILY SUMMARY. CE SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C,

ADVISED THAT THE

HARVEY WRECKING COMPANYPRESENTLY OWNED BY FRED

HARVEY COLDBERG IS QUOTE OUTFIT CONTROLLED ENQUOTE. OUTFIT CONTROL

DATES BACK TO THE TIME THE GOLDBERG FAMILY OWNED THEKVURLITZER RECO

AND MUSIC BOX COMPANY IN-CHICACO AND IN WHICH THE LATE JAKEYGUZIK ILL

HAD AN INTEREST. SAID THE GOLDBERG FAMILY ARE NO LONGER OWNERS ODELENAD

THE WURLITZER COMPANY, HOWEVER, STILL ARE THE OWNERS OF HARVEY

WRECKING COMPANY STATES THAT SINCE GUSIK-S DEATH IN NINETEEN FIFTY

SIX GOLDBERC-S INTEREST IN THE HARVEY WRECKING COMPANIES

SPLIT

4QNG

ALEX, MURRAY HUMPHREYS AND

INDT

DUAL KNOWN AS OF LOGAN-

STA

THAT HARVEY WRECKING COMPANY AÑD THE SPEEDWAD WARC&ANCOMPANY OF

I betat

CHICAGO /WHICH DOES A HUGE AMOUNT OF WRECKING BOTH FOR PRIVATE CON-

TRACTORS AND

FOR THE CITY OF CHICAGO, ARE CONSPIRING ON BIDS TO

END PAGE ONE

Wonte

56 MAR 3 0 1961

crisp

c-Stiffeld

DocId: 32288339 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

WRECK BUILDINGS IN THE CHICAGO AREA. CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C

HAS PREVIOUSLY ADVISED SPEEDWAY WRECKING COMPANY IS HOODLUM CONTROLLED

AND THAT ALEX HAD AN INTEREST IN THIS COMPANY. STATED THESE WRECKING

COMPANIES FIND THAT BY SPLITTING THE BUSINESS THEY ARE BETTER ABLE TO

PERFORM THEIR CONTRACTS ON A SCHEDULED BASIS AND THAT BY CONTROLLING

THE BIDDING MOST OF THE WRECKING BUSINESS IN CHICAGO ARE BID BY THESE

TWO COMPANIES. JOELOCAN INTERVIEVED THIS DATE AND ADVISED THAT HIS

LEGAL NAME IS JOE BAGNOLAA

LOGANg THE NAME LOCAN BEING ADDED TO MIS

REAL NAME BAGNOLA WHEN HE WAS A BOXER IN HIS YOUNGER DAYS. LOGAN

STATED THAT HE FORMERLY RAN A BOOK AT VAN BUREN AND STATE STREETS,

CHICAGO FROM SEPTEMBER NINETEEN THIRTY TWO TO NINETEEN FORTY ONE.

STATED THAT DURING THIS TIME HE WAS A CLOSE FRIEND OF MICHAEL KENNA,

NOW DECEASED WHO WAS ALDERMAN AND COMMIPEEMAN OF CHICAGO-S FIRST WARD

UNTIL NINETEEN FORTY SIX REIWHEN HE DIED. HE STATED THAT THROUGH HIS

FRIENDSHIP WITH KEENA HE WAS ABLE TO OPERATE HIS BOOK WITHOUT ANY

INTERFERENCE OR CONTROL FROM INE OUTFIT. LOCAN STATED THAT AFTER

KEENA-S DEATH HE BOOTLEGGED A FEW BETS UNTIL ABOUT TWO YEARS AGO

PAGE

DocId: 32288339

Page 3

---

