# docid-32337152

## Page 1

Released wider the Toln F. Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90136-10195

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-70973-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SJ

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 02/10/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN

WILLIAM MORGAN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32337152

Page 1

---

## Page 2

[Released under the John F. "Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Möte) .

-BATE Ret? 52115-36911

FBI

Date:

2/10/61

Transmit the following in

PIAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

CONFD ENTIAL.

AIR MAIT

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

AGENC

OFRIATE

DIRECIOR, FBI

SAC, SAN JUAN (105-4195)

CLASS.

EXT

REASON-FCIM

• II

DATE OF: REVIEW.

IS - DR

RA - DR

Re repoRt of Sa EUGENE I. PAINE dated 2/7/61(44)

On February, 3, 1961 efforts were made to locate

the subject to interview him regarding investigation

requested by New Yoric relating to the

Dominican Intelligence

agents operating in the United states:

JOHN CRESCIONI, Desk Clerk, CLumbus Hotel, the

former residence. of the subject, advised that the subject

departed instant hotel on January 16, 1961, at which time

subject

Florida:

indicated he was soing to Guatemala via Miami,

on January 30; 1901 JOHN AGUILAR (Protect Identity

as he is being considered for development as a PSI and

therefore should be characterized as an individual who

has furnished insufficient information to judge his

reliability), advised that he is noù personally acquainted

with Father VELASCO.

He stated, however, that his former

law partner in Santiago de Cuba,

GUILLERM

once told him about the subject.

SELLERIO SANCHEZ FORNALES;

"the attorney

Ion the Archbishop or santiago and according to SANChEZ,

VELAsCo had agreat deal or difficulty with Church officials

in Santiago de Cuba, and was finally barred from saying Mass

and performing his priestly duties,

be guilty of stealing eno

-Bureau (97-4464)

2-Miami

н D7919

inasmuch as he was believed

and prbing an alcoholic

154

FEB -

2- New York

1961

I-San Juan (105-4195) |20a wo

• FEB I

1961

ELP: 2hC

AT.T. I

HEREIN

PION CONT

UNCLASSIPIED

AINED

Approved:

GEB 1.7 1951

Speci

5 0 FEB 2 1 1961

_ M

Per

DocId: 32337152 Page 2

12-l-0

ppy.

ovo/

71. 20 IN

-4464

ORIGINAL

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

SJ 105-4195

CONFISENTIAL

AGUILAR pointed out that Cuban newspapers gave

a great deal of publicity to Father VELASCO's complicity

in the abortive invasion of Cuba by Dominican forces

which wasreportedly defeated by the effort of WILLIAM

MORCAN VELASCO was labeled by FIDEL CASTRO aS one of

the principal TRuJILLo agents involved in the affair.

CASTRO also frequently made public statements on tele-

vision condemning Father VELASCO.

(*)(u)

AGUILAR advised that GUILLERMO SANCHEZ FORNALES

is now residing and employed in New York City and

believes he could be located through Archbishop

SPELLMAN,

inasmuch as SPELIMAN assisted him in obtaining

employment in New York Clin leA

AGUILAR aISO Stated that ELOI

MENOYO.CUTIERREZ

former Comandante and cohort of

"WILLIAM MORGAN, recently

sca ta cube is suail too and tensed da ford calle

He advised MoNOYO reportedly was involved in

TRUJILLO dot involving VELASCO and WILLIAM MORGAN/•

In view of the above information, New York is

*/4)

requested to attempt to locate GUILLERMO SANCHEZ FOR-

NALES through Archbishop SPELLMAN and interview him

regarding the activities of Father VELASCO in an effort

to develop further information regarding VELASCO's in-

volvement with the Dominican Government and possibly

Lunther identley his contacts. (*)(u)

Miami is also requested

along

to conduct investigation

these lines by locating and interviewing MENOYO

It is noted

that Miami and New York have both

received copies of referenced

report

for background

information regarding VELASCO.

( 0EX42)

Invostigation continuins at san Juan. (4)

- 2-

CONDENTAL

DocId: 32337152 Page 3

---

