# docid-32317435

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/3/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10353-10172

RECORD SERIES : LA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-113C-265

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/02/1963

1

JOHN ROSELLI (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HW 45945 DocId: 32317435 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ARIEL

8/2/63

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL (REGISTERED)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

EROM :

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-113-C)

RE:

JOHN ROSELLI, aka

AR

ROSSELLI resided at his Los Angeles apartment

7/30, 31, and 8/1/63, but LA 4396-C* furnished no information

other than the fact that he was at the apartment on these dates.

This source and a neighborhood source advised he did not return

to his apartment evening 8/7/63 and not there morning 8/2/63.

PCI, Manager, Beverly Crest Hotel,

Beverly Hills,

California, advised that MAURICE FRIEDMAN

and wife, NORMA arrived at this hotel on 7/27/63 and are still

at the hotel. FRIEDMAN 18 part owner New Frontier Hotel,

Las Vegas, and close friend of ROSSELLI. PCI said that

FRIEDMAN has not left twon since arrival and goes dally to

the Friar's Club in Beverly H11l8.

Sales Manager, Doheny Plaza Apartments, where

ROSSELLI has made a reservation to buy an apartment, stated that

no further committment has been made by ROSSELLI and the

"Reservation" is a very loose arrangement, binding neither

on ROSSELLI nor the apartment owners.

The manager stated that.

inasmuch as ROSSELLI has put no money down he does not

belleve ROSSELLI is really serious about purchasing an

apartment.

3 - Bureau (AM) (RM)

1- Los Angeles

HFD: caf

(4) cong

SEARSHED

INDE""

FBI LA

# OF XEROX COPIES:

2.

FiLED

Qu

Ru

DATE 151 INITIALS.

fa;

OTHER 4

HIRTEL

92-1130-265

NW 45945 DocId: 32317435 Page 2

---

