# docid-32322956

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/6/2015

AGENCY:. FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90008-10022

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-5715-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 12/29/1961

PAGES:

22

SUBJECTS :

ANTHONY DORIA

RICHARD KAVNER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 45827 DocId: 32322956

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ev. 5-1-591

FEDERAL DUNEAU OF INV

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

LOS ANGELES

REPORTING OFFICE

LOS ANGELES

TITLE OF CASE

ANTHONY DORIA

JATION

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/29/61

11/15 - 12/26/61

REPORT MADE BY

JOHN ROBERT BARRON

CHARACTER. OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

rht

REFERENCES:

Re Lot on HARD K. SCHNAB dated 17/14/61

at Los Angeles.

Los Angeles airtel to Chicago dated 12/11/61

(Interoffice).

-P -

ADMINISTRATIVE

The following Investigation was conducted in connection

with case entitled, "UNKNOWN SUBJECT; JOHN A. KOALPATRICK VIOL

ANTI-RACKETEERING

00: CHICAGO, BUFILE 92-5594, CHICAGO 92-1058,

LOS ANGELES 92-993":

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

/3 - Bureau (92-5715)

1 - USA,

Los Angeles

AUSA TIMOTHY M.

- New York (Info)

Chicago (Info)

Las Vegas (Inio

• Milwaukee (Info

Minneapol1s (Info)

Louts (Info

STidRACordial Attached Report

/

Crest

Diu

19/22

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

(Attn:

THORNTON)

92-5715-6x-24

REC- 30

1 101541

57 JAN 3 0 1962

NW 45827 DocId: 32322956

Page 2

---

## Page 3

IA 92-745

"Captain Hamilton indicated that the No. 2 man may

have been the one who accompanied "Meat Ball" to Chicago via

Tacoma, Washington. It is further believed that "Meat Ball"

remained in Tacoma after returning from Chicago and that the

No. 2 man returned to Los Angeles.

Upon receiving

• this

information Director Duffy discussed the matter with Deputy

Superintendent Morris,

and made a request that the Syndicated

Crime Unit of the o

mation in this matter.

"Sgt. Raymond O'Malley, Syndicate Crime Unit, was

sent to Los Angeles by airline that night. On October

• 25th,

Sgt. Raymond O'Malley, by telephone conversation disclosed the

following:

"Captains Informant's name 1s|

2812 West OTHER 4

Caldwell, colored male, 47 years old, married, one child,

construction worker but unemployed at the present time.

He is

a native of California, noeducation, very illiterate, and very

slow thinking.

Relative to the original information he stated

that he heard

this unknown man talking to another man known only

as "Doc,"; That this man told "Doc" that he had to leave town

for a while to collect $90,000, alleged to be owed to him by a

Union man in Chicago and he furtherstated that if the man only

was to leave for Tacoma from Los Angeles and then from Tacoma

other undesireable people have access to airplanes for their own

airlines, he could have gone by any means to Tacoma and then

taken a commercial flight from Tacoma to Chicago.) This infor

mant then went on to tell Sgt. O'Malley that on Friday night,

the 20th of October he was at Malibu Beach from 8:30 p.m. til

10:30 p.m.

He was there working as a waiter for a party

• of six

these men they have definitely Identified as Anthony Doria.

this party included three men and three girls. One of

He

is supposed to be a big Union man out in California and at one

time was head of the Union which Mr. Incisco and Mr. Kilpatrick

are affiliated with.

he informant states that this is the

conversation which he heard at this time

Mr. Doria was supposed

to have stated to this unknown middle-aged man "you went to

- D

COVER PAGE

NW 45827 DocId: 32322956 Page

---

## Page 4

LA 92-745

The records of Home Savings and Loan Association

Encino Office, 17107 Ventura Boulevard were made available

by ROBERT J. MC NEILL, Vice President of the above office.

Records of the Pasadena Escrow and Safe Deposit

Company were made available by Miss PATSY J. DAUVELL,

manager of the above company.

The observations noted in this report were made

by Special Agents of the Los Angeles Office who were on

physical surveillances of DORIA. These surveillance 10gs

are maintained in this file.

Information copies of this report are being furnished

all offices noted to assist them in the coverage of present

and future leads.

INFORMANIS

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed in this report and I symbols were utilized only ir

those instances where the identity of the source must be.

concealed.

• LA T-2

OTHER 4

IA I-3

LA T-4

4489 Hayvenhurst

Encino, California

Immediate neighbor to subject.

CSIA 4374-0

Motion Picture Producer

Freedom Films

1041 North Formosa

Hollywood California

- R

-

COVER PAGE

NW 45827 DocId: 32322956 Page 4

---

