# docid-32305508

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 U5c 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

• Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10288-10138

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2717-779

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, PH

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/29/1962

2

ABR, REL, B/F INT, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305508

Page 1

435

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATES 11-14-2011

4-41 (Revilo 16-62)"

DECODED COPY

Radio

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Del olon

Gale:-

Roset

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

x& Teletype

URGENT

TO DIRECTOR

11-29-62

6:30 PM ..EST

ERA

FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA

292225 -

ANGELO BRUNO, AKA, AR, DAILY.

PH 614 C TE REPORTS SUE BRUNO CHANGED MIAMI PLANS,

REMAINING WITH HUSBAND IN PHILA UNTIL GARDEN STATE

VENDING SOLD.

LOUIS DI ROCCO, PARTNER OF DANTE AND LUIGI'S

RESTAURANT, PHILA, WHERE BRUNO HOLDS PRIVATE DINNER

MEETINGS, OPENING VILLA CAPRI RESTAURANT, ALLENTOWN,

PA. BRUNO CONTACTED LOUIS IN BEHALF MAX "WILLIE" WEISBERG

TO SECURE LINEN SERVICE FOR WEISBERG'S CADILLAC LINEN

COMPANY.

PH 623 C% REPORTS AGREEMENT OF SALE, BRUNO'S GARDEN

STATE VENDING, REVIEWED TODAY WITH GEORGE HAMILTON,

CAMDEN, NEW JERSEY. BEN GOLOB BITTER AT BRUNO BECAUSE

OF PROPOSED SALE AND GOLOB'S REMOVAL FROM DIRECTING

BRUNO'S INTEREST. BRUNO DISCUSSED WITH FRED IEZZI HIS

DETAILS TO OBTAIN BAR INTEREST AT PROPOSED MARINA TO

BE CONSTRUCTED ALONG DELAWARE AVENUE, NORTH OF BAINBRIDGE

STREET, PHILA. IEZZI INDICATED ONE LOU LNU WHO HAS

BUSINESS DEALINGS WITH BRUNO, APPARENTLY BUILT MOTEL

97-2

125 DEC 4

- 1962

779

EX 106

55 DEC 1 0 1962

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32305508 Page 2

---

