# docid-32338602

## Page 1

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/13/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90143-10020

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-370750-217

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

09/29/1953

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32338602 Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Men

TO

I • UNITED ST

CONFBENTIAL

Director, FBI (100-370750)

ERNMENT

DATE!

September 29, 1953

FROM :

SAC, Los Angeles (100-21198)

SUBJECT:

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON,

wa.

INTERNAL SECURII ®

ALL INPOSMATION CONTAINE

HERBIN I

SNCLASSLEISD

ZXCEPI WHERE SHOTS

OTHERWISE

00 - LOS ANGELES

Classified by 9145 Sx00

Declassily

#259416

-5-8T$

bra tCy

On September 8, 1953,

LAWSON

gave the nihth in a series

of lectures on playwriting at 7410 Sunset Boulevard, Hollywoo^,

carltornia, which is the office of the Hollywood Arts, Sciences

and Professions Council (ASP), which has been sponsoring this

series.

CS LA 3738-S was present and subsequently furnished

SA BERNARR M. PTACEK with a written report of the meeting.

During the discussion period, the motion picture "Shane"

was

brought up. LAWSON said that contrary to popular bellef, this

was not a

"progressive" movie, even though a great many people

regarded it as such. According to LAWSON, It 1s not even a

socially significant picture.

LAWSON maintained that the fact

that SHANE took up arms when he did not believe in force and

taught the little boy how to draw a pistol proved LAWSON's

contention that the entire point of the film was merely to

engender an approval of war.

LAWSON went on to say, according to the informant's

report, that "of course violence is necessary and desirable when

It works for the good of the masses of the people."

LAWSON told the gathering that he was one of the "10"

who went to jail "for disagreeing with the socio-political power.

in this country"

and for upholding what he believes are fundamental

rights.

Hessaid,

"As humanity moves forward, 1t must face and solve

new social problems."

ICs LA 3512-S advises that JOHN HOWARD LAWSON continues

be the dominant figure in the Hollywood ASP organization and one

who has a great deal to do with ASP decisions on all Important

matters of policy.

MMB: pam

REGISTERED

RECORDED-38

EX. - 118

+ 00-370750-217

OCT

6

ON

5PP)

6300T

g 1953

ThORN

L

DocId: 32338602 Page 2

---

