# docid-32290987

## Page 1

Released unter the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/5/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10206-10263

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-83564-3RD NR 1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/23/1960

3

MLO, BKG, REL, ASSOC, MED/PERS HIST, LTR, CASTRO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290987

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

(Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PLAIN 2309T

ALI. INA

FORMATI

CONTAINED

BERBIN

SILLED

EAR SUOWH

OTHERWISE.

101

PROA

JUSTEGE:

6

Classified

Declassi

DIRROTOR, PSE (209-12-210)

BAC, KrON

YORK (109-122)

FOREIGN P

ARICAL MATTERS-OURA

Ise GUDA

ILONA MARITA LORENZ

MLOD HAMZZA

LORENS,

NZO, solf-adaluted

Eleutziond

02 PEDE CASTRO,

entered hoodovolt soapital,

NUo, 1/19/60 for on intornal operation due to en

aborton perfomed on her involuntarily in Havana, Cuba,

on 5/19/52,

Lorkuz was opcratad on 1/20/60

releasod from tho hosplool on 1/22/00.

Information in possession of N7O zogarding thia

nattow is being set forth in a fom eultable for

Dors +

adviscd tha

Aeros songs, Nother of MARICA LOR308,

IYO, on 2/22/59

thac phs

200

3

rocoivod a cable

Q.M, on 1/22/60

FOOD MERCEDSS MONENO Iho had

carrio a pezsonal letter to FIDS: CAOZDO regarding

the

• aboztion pertamod in lavans on MAXINA LOnENE and

asicing

That

che Cobra Covarment assume responsibility

for hospical

and bedtea? expenses.

• Inotzuctions in cable contactod MERCUDES WORENO

phone and Monsio told firs. LOPin that she had

delivorad the

• Botcor to Proa

CASZZO

2nd

dietned

Chou

• Ignorance of tho

abortzon

placod

mad 2i2

Captain JESUS VANCO

blace sas bodne

stacod

that Flutter hoc

chzetoned hosta

arit

MARIZA

LORENz for writing

to Mad.

LOASITE

Chie letter

PILATER bed accused her:

and

cald

that

counsor rovolubionary dotivitg.

and her Satter,

Bureau

(109-12-210)

(2N2O)

mAe

(Res)

new Xork (134-41002

Now

Y00k

M05-

New

Tort

(134-352)

Tarte

(109 712)

VALTER

(2000 te

50p:p02

359

XON)

(NGCAND2Z)

05+83541

A PICORDED

1i

FEB IS 1960

4 FEB 1 2 1960

- y gt st

DocId: 32290987

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFAINTIAL

NY 109-112

who is in change of the

Castro

organization telephonically advised the Nottl

of the July 2oth Movenent would picket Internat members(es)

Airport on the afternoon of 1/22/60 when Spanish Ambassador

JUAN PABLO de LOJENDIO would arrive enroute to Madrid,

Spain after being asked

to leave Cuba by FIDEL CASTRO.

Lieutenant FRANCIS M. SULLIVAN, Commanding

officer, BSS, NerD was advised of the information furnished

that any picketincess sent men to the airport to ensure.

ALFREDO HERNANDEZ,

source of information,

advised on 1/22/60 that

there was a picket at the

airport upon the arrival of the Spanish Ambassador to

Cuba, JUAN de LOJENDIO, who was recently asked to leave

Cuba.

The NYO will, from established sources,

ascertain

the reason for Captain PELLETIER'S presence in NYC, and

attempt to determine his activities and contacts.

It is the opinion of the NYO that PELLETIER,

due to his close contact and association with FIDEL

CASTRO, Is not a political defecte of the Castro Government

and that if he defects or leaves Cuba it is because

of personal reasons rather than political reasons

-3-

GOI

DocId: 32290987 Page 3

---

