# docid-32326304

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90045-10005

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 105-112098-315

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/10/1963

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

ALPHA 66

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

3

DocId: 32326304

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

=D-253 (Rev. 5-1-591

0. 000

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAL

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

7/207763

INVESTIGATIVE PERIO

5/18 - 6/24/63

REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY

FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

gag

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF

ESCAMBRA Y

(SNFE) (OPERATION-

ALPHA 66)

CHARACTER OF CASE

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

REGISTRATION ACT -CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

AIt ENTORHATION CONTAINED

Glas

1388

HEAD 1D

6 UNCTASSIFIED

MAX SHOWA

REFERENCES

Decla

New York report of SA TRANCES J, 'gRIN 9T84 solmao

Classified bu

DECEASSITTED BESP&MAC

7-38-94

Declassy

Cil:

OADR

7935869

DECLASS IT DO TON

INFORMANTS

-1607

Identity of Source

NY T-1

RAFAEL VALDES

PSI under development

(134-834378

APPROPRIATE AGENCIE

AND FIELD OFFICES

ADVISED BY ROUTING

SLIP(S) OF

DATA

3/2745

Classifted by

Declassity

BADR 3/1/85

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

11) - Bureau

(105-112098)

"]

- Miami (105-6243) (RM)

1

Newark (Info.) (RM)

- New Haven (Info.)

Tampa (Info.)

(RM)

1

- Washington Field

(105-508(0)

(Into.) (RM)

1 - San Juan (105-6133) "' (Info.) (RM)

Nese Work Rec005- 57209d Report

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105.112098-315 REC-12

22 JUL 15 1963

1X08

Notations

NATVINT. SEC

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

Copy to:

CIA/State/1a2a

ONI/OSI/ACSI

by routing slip for info.

Date... 123 1a56..

• JUL k4

- 1900F6

DIAO INS

DASt GUARA

CONFIDENTIA!.

DocId: 32326304

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONIUENTIAI

WIDENTIAL

NY 105-57297

INFORMANT'S (CONT'D)

Identity of Source

NY T-2

CSNY 2822-S

Where Located

instant Report, pages 5,6

LEADS

SAN JUAN (INFARK, NEW HAVEN, TAMPA, WASHINGTON FIBED,

Information copies of this report are

being furnished to Newark, New Haven,

Tampa, Washington

Field and San Juan, as they have conducted previous

investigation in this matter.

NEW YORK

At New York, New York

1. Will attempt to identify contacts

of Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo,

from toll calls which he

may have made while a resident at the Nevada Hotel,

New York City.

2. Will maintain contact with CECILIO J.

VASQUEZ, Public Relations Director of

SNFE - Alpha 66.

3. Will maintain contact

with

sources for any developments in

this matter.

- B* -

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32326304 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDEXTIAL

NZ 105-57297

[that GUTIERREZ MENOYO spole very bitterly against

MANUEL RAY, leader of JURE. NY I-1 also advised

that GUTIERREZ MENOYO told him that SNFE-ALPHA 66

was in desperate need for qualified and capable

men to promote SNFE-ALPHA 66 into a political organization.

NY T-2 advised that he had learned that SNFE-ALPHA 66

would make appeal for contributions as the

organization was hard hit for finances.

CECILIO J.

VASQUEZ, Public Relations Director, SNFE=ALPHA 66,

advised that GUTIERREZ MENOYO returned to Florida

NA 6/16/63, and that he did not bellere that much

progress was made towara unity among action groups 1 tEL

-P-

- 1a -

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32326304

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONPMENTIAL

NY 105-57297

MARTINEZ MARQUEZ stated that the majority of Cubans

can nèver forget the roll played by GUTIERREZ MENOYO

along with the late

Cuba from the Dominican Republic at Trinidad,

Las Vidia8.

MARTINEZ MARQUEZ advised that GUTIERREZ

MENOYO had requested the support of MARTINEZ. MARQUEZ

and also any financial help which he could give

for the SNFE - Alpha 66.

MARTINEZ MARQUEZ stated

that he refused both requests of GUTIERREZ MENOYO

whom he personally mistrusted and had no

confidence in him.

MARTINEZ MARQUEZ also advised that on

June 19, 1963, he had been informed that

GUTIERREZ MENOYO had returned to Miani, Florida,

over the weekend of June 15, 1963. MARTINEZ MARQUEZ

stated that according to his information, GUTIERREZ

MENOYO was not too successful in aligning

support

behind the SNFE - Alpha 66 organization.

NY T-1, on June 18, 1963, advised that

he had met with ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO on 6/14/63.

During conversation with GUTIERREZ MENOYO, MENOYO

informed him that the SNFE - Alpha 66 maintained a head-

quarters at 115 12th Avenue,

Miami, Florida,

but that he could be reached only by leaving a

message with his sister who resides at 214 N.W.

asth street, Miami, Florida, telophone number WE 5-1801 788-418814)

During conversation with GUTIERREZ MENOYO,

NY T-l stated that he had learned that there had beer

no union of SNFE-Alpha 66 with the Junta Revolucionaria

MABANDON

(JURE) and GUTIERREZ MENOYO stated that there were

many difficulties/to be overcome before any

union could be made with JURE, which is headed by

MANUEL

BAY, former member of the cabinet LAD

PA.SA

-3-

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32326304 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL

SOUEIDENTIAT

NY 105-57297

of Prime Minister FIDEL CASIRO. NY I-I stated that

in discussing MANOLO RAY, the Leader of JURE, GUTIERRE

MENOYO spoke in a very bitter manner and stated

that RAY wanted only to get all anti-CASTRO organizations

under the control of JURE. (i6) th

NY T-I stated that GUTIERREZ MENOYO

admitted tohim that there was no real organizational

structure behind SNFE-Alpha 66, and he stated that

the organization was in desperate need for qualified

and capable men to promote SNFE-Alpha 66 into a

political organization among the Cuban exiles. NuYER OF SUBJECT ORGANIZATION

GUTIERREZ MENOYO told NY I-I during his conversation

on June, 14, 1963, that AMAURY RAGINALS, the

NY T-1 advised that in discussing

future military action against CASTRO, he,

NY T-1, suggested that SNFE-Alpha 66- consider blowing

up an Esso refinery located in Havana Harbor and

accessible by water. NY T-I stated that GUTIERREZ

MENOYO replied by stating that such an action would

have no beneficial effect in the fight against

CASTRO even though the reconstruction of the

refinery would be a very aifricult job. kA MiN(K)

NY T-1 stated that GUT.IERREZ MENOYO spoke

about the military action of SNFE - Alpha 66 only in

so far as the military action was against Russian

shipping in Cuban waters. NY T-1

stated that GuTIERREZ

MENOYO pointed out that an attack upon Russian ships

in Cuban waters would be of great propaganda value

for SNFE-Alpha 66. NY I-l stated that GUTIERREZ

MENOYO did not discuss with him any plan for future

1111 tary action agalnst the Cuban coast nor did he (opulAu

-4-

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32326304 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

NY 105-57297

explain to him what kind of military actions he

might have in mind. (ALULU)

NY T-l also advised that in conversation

with GUTIERREZ MENOYO they entered into the

discussion of clandestine sabatoge activity in

Cuba and GUTIERREZ MENOYO stated that the SNFE-

Alpha 66 was well situated inside Cuba with

sabotoge networks. NY T-l stated that from his

past experiences in this field, he felt sure

that GULlERREr was bluffing,

and in the opinion

of NY T-1, the SNFE-Alpha 66 had little or no ties

• with the

interior of Cuba. (AUdU)

NY I-1 stated that

is definitely planning a fund raising campaign

directed toward the American public which will be

made through posters and literature in the

English language. NY T-1 stated that he got the

definite impression that the SNFE-Alpha 66 had

ran into financial difficulties.

NY I-l stated that

during his long conversation with GUTIERREZ MENOYO,

he was slightly embarrassed when GUTIERREZ MENOYO

asked him for something to eat. NY I-l stated he

had his wife fix some food for

GUTIEREZ MENOYO and

GUTIERREZ MENOYO ate it as if he haä not had

anything to eat for several days. (X) HIR(U)

NY I-1 advised that he attempted to get

at the headquarters of the SNFE-Alpha 66 in

In contact with aurite Maloro on June 17 new Your,

but he was informed that GUTIERREZ MENOYO

had returned to Miami, Florida, at 11:00 p.m. on

June 16, 1963-180 4(X(4)

WAIBER OF SUBJECT ORGANIZATION

a recent a1sc 110 with Mi MIRA that In

who 18 very actlve in the SiP-Alpha 66 in New York, (A) 4

- 5 -

CONTSSENTIAL

CONDENTA

DocId: 32326304 Page 7

---

## Page 8

*Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFISENTIAL

NY 105-57297

at the present

appeal for contributions for support of the

organization.. From Miss TESIE, NY I-2 learned

that the organization was hard

hit for finances

and the situation could be described

as desperate.

NY T-2 stated that from individuals

employed in his office who have known ELOY

GUTIERREZ MENOYO from Cuba, he received the general

impression that GUTIERREZ MENOYO has a very bad

reputation.

NY I-2 stated that these individuals who

knew GUTIERREZ MENOŸO in Havana stated that

he used to work for LUIS POZO, the son of the

former Mayor of Havana, who operated a bar

known as the "El Turf",

› Calzada Street, Havana,

Cuba. NY T-2 stated that these individuals said

that LUIS POZO had been one of the people arrested

in August, 1959, when there was an invasion of

Cuba. from

the Dominican Republic at Trinidad, and

that LUIS POZO, although a good friend of GUTIERREZ

MENOYO, was arrested and is still in jail. NY I-2

stated

that many of the people commented upon

this situation as indicative of the type of loyalty

that GUTIERREZ MENOYO exhibited toward his

friends.

These individuals also informed NY T-2 that'

while GUTIERREZ MENOYO worked as a bartender at the "El

Turf" he was engaged in the sale of marijuana, cocaine,

and heroin.

NY T-2 stated that these individuals

also were acquainted with ARMANDO FLEITES of

gest

exile. 4

NUMBER OF SUBJECT ORGANIZATION

- 6 -

DONAL

CONFILENTIAL

DocId: 32326301 Page 8

---

