# docid-32309838

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/3/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10301-10104

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1499-119

Released under the John

4ssassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:N 54462 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, WMFO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/20/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

FS, BKG, ASSOC, RES, EMP, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32309838

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ENCIES

GASE

- AL FORM NO. 10

D' STATES GOT NMENT

Memoranuum

TO

? DIRECTOR, FBI (2-1499)

DATE:

KEEPEDIE

I0D FIFI

ADVISTO EY

SLIP (53

DATE

12/20/63.

REMANDER

GASSIFIED

ROM

: SAC, WEO (97-1151) (P) Confis

Antial

glose to in 109-324 (Sterling)

SUBJECT: FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS, aka

+ 100-133192 picnat

Frank Fiorini

2-26-95

IS - CUBA; NEUTRALITY MATTERSClassified by

емісіт

Declassity our get resis i a

ReBulet/2/10/63, with enclosure,

which enclosure

SPIMAC/O

18) 18/81

Sues

is a letter to Director, FBI, from Central Intelligence

JFK.

Agency, 11/19/63. #

A review of the enclosure reveals the following

findividuals and/or phone numbers which makes it appear

the individual resides in the Washington, D. C., area of

the phone number is listed to someone within the Washington,

D. C., area:d

Writer For Drew Pearson

ECLASSIFIED BY

7-16-

Tain

DI 7-4325

1326RSON, 1612 K Streets Ne Me BROC

HM WH 2-3789

Unlisted Number WH 6-5972

STERLING, CARLOS MARQUEZ

4600 Connecticut

Avenue, Apartment 705 0,C

л.Ч!

Cuba

EM 3-3487

PIERROTADICK, Mr., 2701 - 31st Street. N. W. DC

DE 2-9038.

Concerning JACK ANDERSON, he is a well-known newspaper

columnist who writes for "Parade" magazine, a Sunday supplement

issue subscribed to by the "Washington Post." He also is a

protege, associate and substitute writer for DREW PEARSON,

the well-known syndicated news columnist who is on the"No

Contact List'of WFO.

2-1499-119

be instituted on ANDERSON DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

WFO does not recommend that aRon yestigation

chatte

2

- Bureau

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATICN

- Miami (2-192) (RM)

IN THIS DOCUMEN

- New York (Info) (RM)

6, КР 5-

3 DEC/24 1963

Ap 1 - WFO

CLASSIFIED AN

EXTENDED BY SP! TELIRH

→ AEXI AET INFORMA TO CONTAINESO

CHEW: peb

HEREIN IS UNCL

ASSIBIRD EXCEPT

BANg

LEFCIM, I1, 1

WHERE SHOWN O

1880 15

DATE OF

NAT!ININSEC.

8211321

12920

DECLASSIFICATION...

Confide

1491

NW 54462 DooId: 32309838

Page 2

---

## Page 3

0OM:0A84

WFO 97-1151

Conti

itial

Concerning phone WH 2-3789, it

a nò through the Montgomery County, Maryland, current issue of the

City Directory that phone Number WH 2-3789 is listed to one

EMIL GANGARRETT, 4511 Strathmore Avenue, Garrett Park Maryland,

(a suburb of Washington, D. C.), and his eccupation is listed

as USA, and his wife is

shown as MARIORIE.

WFO indices regard-

ing GARRETT are negative.

WFO will conduct a discreet prelimi-

ary investigation to ascertain his background and thereafter

make further recommendation concerning investigation of this

individual.

is currently being ascertained.

The subserier doualisted phone Number (WH 6-5972/0(4)

Concerning STERLING, CARLOS MARQUEZ, 4600 Connecticut

Avenue, Apartment 705, this individual is the subject of

and Miami

file 105-2476. New York is office of origin con-

cerning him and his background and activities are well known

to WFO, New York and Miami so that further investigation con-

hand iran al

cerning him is not recommended.

It should also be noted that

at one time WFO utilized

STERLING as a source of information

under WFO file 134-3192, Bureau file 109-321; but when he

moved to New York City during the Summer of 1963, his services

as a source of information could no longer be used by wO. tell

Concerning DICK PIERROT, 2701 31st Street, N. W.,

this individual appears to be identical to the case captioned

"ALBERT OGDEN PIERROT, aKa ALBERT O. PIERRO, A. OGDEN PIERROT

'DICK, ' PSI - Cuba," Bureau file 100-133192, WFO file 134-3398.

In 1960 PIERROT'S services were utilized briefly by wFO as

a PaI, since that one time be sold airplanes to the Cuban

Government shortly after CASTRO assumed the position of

Premier.

His background is well known to WFO and it does not

appear that

warranted. (

¿ditional Investigatson coacerains hill is

The

Bureau ang Miami will be furnished additional

Information congerning EMIL G. GARRETT

and

unlisted phone

Number WH 6-5972 it is developed.

420-2070

• HAO BEES

SP6BJA/Gel 211326-1121190

Confian

tIal

(u)

NH 54462 DooId: 32309838

Page 3

---

