# docid-32299349

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10225-10129

HQ

105-114543-170

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, RH

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/13/1964

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JURE, MRRI, ASSOC, ENTENZA, PEDRO, ACA, EMP, RCK

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased: NW 54464 Date:

40-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32299349

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

RH 105-3833

Indices of the Richmond Office contain no record

for PEDRO

ENTENZA.

RH 161-S, who is familiar with CP members and

activity in the state of Virginia, was contacted on 5/21/04,

and

related that the name of PEDRO ENTENZA is unknown to him.

and he has no information concerning him.

Records of the Fairfax County Police Department were

reviewed on 6/2/64, and no

record located for ENTENZA.

Records of the Credit Bureau, Inc., were reviewed on

6/3/64, and no record located for ENTENZA.

on 7/2/64, JAMES GOODING, Deputy Clerk, Fairfax County

Court House, Fairfax,

Va., advised SA SAMUEL W. WEST that he

is slightly

acquainted with ENTENZA through their respective

employments.

GOODING said that he has never heard ENTENZA make

any pro-Castro statements, and has heard from other unrecalled

mutual acquaintances that ENTENZA is very much opposed to the

Castro Regime.

According to GOODING, ENTENZA is employed by

the law firm of Jesse, Phillips, Kendrick and Geaheart, who

have offices at 104 South Payne

Street, Fairfax, Va.

According

to GOODING, this is a well known and respected law

firm and

their main offices are located at 1427 North Court House Road,

Arlington, Va.

On 7/2/64, Sgt. CHARLES BAESGEN, Detective Bureau,

Fairfax County Police Department, advised

that no information

had come to his attention reflecting any pro-Castro sympathy

on the part of PEDRO ENTENZA.

The Richmond Office has no Cuban informants or sources

in the Fairfax County area; it being noted that most of the

Washington, D.C.

Office as set forth in referenced Miami letter, that based on

information developed to date, no investigation of ENTENZA is

warranted.

In view of the above, no letterhead memorandum is

being submitted at this time, and no further action is being

taken by

Richmond until results of a search of the indices

and contact with Cuban sources by WFO is known.

- 2-

HIH

54464

DocId: 32299349 Page 2

---

