# docid-32306568

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10290-10208

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-111

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

02/10/1961

4

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

• RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ASSOC AND REL, B/F INT, JUKE BOX CORP, SUR, TESUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

409

NW 45792 DocId: 32306568 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Dr.

Tolson

Dar.

Mohr

Mr.

Persons

Mr.

Deimont.

Mr.

Cal

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 2/10/61

(Type in plain text or code)

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

FROM:

SAC, CHICAGO (92-349)

0

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka

A-R

WEEKLY SUMMARY AIRTEL

AV:

REGÍ4

Re Chicago weekly summary airtel 2/3/61.

Commercial Survey Company

Police Department (CG PD), advised on 2/8/61 that the

recently set up a dummy juke box corporation in CG for the

purpose of investigating the Commercial Survey Company at 110

N. Franklin St., CG, and the Recorded Music Service Association

188 W. Randolph St., CG. Although these are separate firms,

they are, in actuality, one in the same, and the purpose of

these companies is a shake-down of juke

CG area, which nets these companies in excess of $100,000 per

Juke box operators are charged $1.15 a month per

machine by these companies on a "subscription" basis.

any questions are given, the purpose of the company is to

"investigate stolen and broken juke boxes.')

3-Bureau

-Chicago

RRH: MDW

(4)

(RM)

92-3172-111

XE FEB 17 1961

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS VAGLASSIFIED

DATE 5-24 - 84_ BY SPSR50/ CRIM

Sent

- M

Per

Approved:

59 FEB 23 198 pctal Agent in Charge

NW 45792 DocId: 32306568 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-349

PAGE

stopped by the Oak Park PD. Mrs. SWEAZY admitted she was the

passenger in this automobile but denied that they were pro-

ceeding at a high rate of speed. She said that she had been

to the Armory Lounge and the Amber Light Lounge on that night

and said that to her knowledge there were no other hoodlums

in either place. (4)

Mrs. SWEAZY stated that in her opinion SAM GIANCANA

is a "perfect gentleman" and is being unduly harrassed by the

various law enforcement agencies.

She said that GIANCANA

has told her that he is a "retired gambler" and that she is

inclined to believe his statement. She said that she does

not believe GIANCANA is a mobster as disclosed by newspaper

articles and that if she did believe this she would no longer

associate

with him. Mrs. SWEAZY added that GIANCANA at the

time was "out of town" but declined

to state exactly where

he may be.

advised SA HILL on 2/8/61 that

GIANCANA was on that date at the Armory Lounge in Forest Park,

/CG 6343-C* advised on 2/7/61 that ANTHONY JPACCARDO

ACCARDO brought up the fact that it was foolish for GIANCANA

to hold meetings at the Armory Lounge in view of the fact

the police have been known to conduct surveillances on a

regular basis re the syndicate. (4

bilities of a possible finial technique at the Armory Lounge

and will keep the Bureau advised of any developments along

those lines.

()

OTHER 4

GALE

NW 45792 DocId: 32306568 Page 3

---

