# docid-32292272

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10209-10048

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-364

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/16/1961

2

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

GAL, ASSOC, B/F INT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32292272

Page 1 '

370

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 216

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-450 (Rev. 6-2-61)

Hotel .

DECODED COPY

V.

Tolson

• Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad®

Evans -

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

Radio

‹x Teletype

DEFERRED

110016-61

3:55 AM.

RUL

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM

SAC, CHICAGO

1.607311

Stillak

0

ZNTIRACKETEERING

GUS

ALEX, AKAO AR. DAILY SUMMARY. CG 6443-C ADVISED HE

HEARD RECENTLY THAT GUS ALEX AND FRANK FERRARO PRESENTLY

LEASE FOUR AUTOMOBILE PARKING LOTS FROM THE CITY OF CHICAGO.

HE SAID THE PARKING LOTS REPORTEDLY OPERATE UNDER THE NAME

SYSTEM AUTO PARKSAND GARAGES AND ARE LOCATED AT 20 SOUTH*.

WACKER DRIVE, 533 SOUTH STATE STREET, 233 SOUTH DEARBORN

STREET AND 201 EAST HURON STREET. INFORMANT INDICATED IT IS

RUMORED THESE PARKING LOTS ARE LEASED BY THE CITY TO INDIVI-

DUALS WHO OPERATE THEM FOR ALEX AND FERRARO AS A FRONT AND

FURTHER THAT THE DEAL REGARDING THESE PARKING LOTS: WAS

OBTAINED THROUGH MAYOR RICHARD J. DALEY IN RETURN FOR LARGE

CONTRIBUTIONS MADE DURING HIS CAMPAIGN FOR MAYOR OF &THE CETY

OF CHICAGO. ALEX SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS

WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

RECEIVED:

5:02 AM

MRECORDED COPY FILED IP:

NON

92-982-364

? NOV 21 1961

"Toms, tot

6 p.

XEROX

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

doraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32292272

Page 2

---

