# docid-32295316

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10215-10092

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2713-1ST.NR 464

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

SAC, NO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/20/1967

2

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/11/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF EOUSA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32295316

17

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John f. Kennedy Assassination Recordo Collection dot of 1992 741 USe 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

11/20/87

AIRTAL

AIR HAIL

10 +

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR • FAL

(39-1333)

SAC

ORLEANS

(89-10)

CARLOS

MARCELLO, akas

n.R.

SA PATRICK •

COLLINS, OR it

VICTIM

AEO

USA LOUIS C. LACOUS,

Eastern

Distyict of Louisiana,

New Orleans, confidentially advised 11/20/07 that he had a

private diacussion with Federal

• District

Judge FREDERICK J. A,

EDuA.

captioned

Judge HERE adviced

chat he 19

trandferring

cose te harded

Texas,

for trial,

Judge NIRDE is

pefraining

From making his decision puttic untst such time

as ho has detorined the best acthod of condusting the

transfer without ralains the question of "roversible enror"

on his part.

Judge REESE pointed

out to USA LACOUR that

WANCELLO had mised an Isune hitherte

unnaised in law when

he fliod a notion for chango of venuc

and then attempted to

pencind the notion.

HIDE feele thet MArstud, no matter mai

happens +

will appeal en the grounde that he has & right to

be tried

the jurisdiction where

the offense occurred, as

per the Sth Anendent to the Consticution.

Judge HSERE

stated that under the Eth

Asendaent,

MARCELLO else has tire

right to

tale and impartial

and MARCELLO claimed;

the hearing; that he could

not get

fair and importial triat

doe

• Life

maganine

artioles relative to him and

statements

• 3y

the

Loude lane

sabsequent

Governo

DO NOT DISSEKIMATE

DUE BURSAU.

6 * Suzeaz

3 - New Axleane

PJC: cam

(9)

(8 - 89-1333

• 92-2713)

92-2713-

NOT, RECORDED

165 NOV 30, 1967

54 DEC1

19671

DocId: 32295316

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the Joln F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

11/20/67

AINTEL

AIR MAIL

TO :

FROM :

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FEI

SAC, NEW ORLEANS

(89-1333)

(89-79)

CARLOS MARCELLO, aka;

SA PATRICK I. COLLINS, R. - VICTIM

AFO

USA LOUIS C. LACOUR, Eastern District of Louisiana,

New Orleans, confidentially adviced 11/20/67 that he had

private discussion with Federal District Judge FREDERICK J. R.

REEBE, EDLA.

Judge HERE advised that he is transferring

captioned case to

Jaredo, Texas,

for trial.

Judge HEZBE is

retraining fron making his decision publie until such time

has deterined the best method of conduating the

transfer without raising the question of "reversible error"

on his part.

Judge HEEDE pointed eut to USA LACOUR that

KANCELLO had raised

an issue hitherto unraised in law when

he filed a notion for change of venue and then attempted to

resoind the motion.

Judge HSEBE feels that MARCELLO, no natter what

happens, will appeal on the grounds that he has a right to

be tried in the jurisdletion where the offense cocurred, as

per the ith Amendment to the Constitution.

Judge HEEBE

otated that under the 6th Anendment, MARCELLO also has the

right to a fale and impartial trial

and NARCELLO claimed, et

the hearing: that he could not get a fair and impartial trial

due to Life magazine articles relative to him and

subsequent

statements by the Louisiana Governor.

DO NOT DISSEMINATE QUISIDE DHE BUREAU:

G : Bureas

(3 - 89-1333)

Now Orleans

92-2713>92-7713

ĐS NOV 30 1967

- NOT RECORDED

154 NOV # 1967

28

1001

DocId: 32295316 Page 3

---

