# docid-32395389

## Page 1

Date: 02/16/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10438-10106.

RECORD

SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53320 Date:

06-24-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM. : ACTING CHIEF, SR DIV

TO

ASSISTANT DEPUTY DIRECTOR, PLANS

TITLE : MEMO: CONTACT OF LEE OSWALD WITH A MEMBER OF KGB

ASSASSINATION DEPARTMENT

DATE

PAGES

11/23/1963

17.

SUBJECTS

KOSTIKOV

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

PAPER

SECRET

1B

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

11/25/98

COMMENTS : JFK-RH06 : F111: 1998.11.25.06:16:55:950129

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10438-10106

1H 53320

DooId: 32395389

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• 3-5958;

23 November 1963

$X-25550

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director, Plans

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Acting Chief, SR Division S

Contact of Lee OSWALD with a member of Soviet KGB

Assassination Department

1. According to an intercepted phone call in Mexico City, Lee OSWALD

was at the Soviet Embassy there on 28 September 1963 and spoke with the

Consul, Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV.

This was learned when OSWALD called

the Soviet Embassy on 1 October, Identifying himself by name and speaking

broken Russian, stating the above and asking the guard who answered the phone

whether there was "anything new concerning the telegram to Washington."

The guard checked and then told OSWALD that a request had been sent, but

nothing had as yet been received. (MaXI 6453, 9 October 1963) The FBI liaison

officer, Mr. Pappich, told me on 23 November that the Bureau has reason to

that OSWALD's visit was to get Soviet support for a U.S. passport or

visa matter perhaps the new passport mentioned in the press articles.

2.

KOSTIKOV is an identified KGB officer.

He was a case officer in an

operation which is evidently sponsored by the KGB's 13th Department (responsible

for sabotage and assassination) This operation, which 1s controlled by the

FBI under the cryptonym TUMBLEWEED, involved a German-national resident of

Oklahoma who was recruited in Europe, and met this year with KOSTIKOV in Mexico

City and shortly thereafter with a known 13th Department officer, Oleg BRYKIN,

in New York. The instructions given TUMBLEWEND by the two officers, (pinpointing

objectives for sabotage) and the circumstances of their involvement in the case,

left no doubt that both of them were working for the same KGB component, the

.13th.

3.

Of course it is not usual for & KGB agent on a sensitive mission to

have such overt contact with a Soviet Embassy. However, we have top secret

Soviet Intelligence documents, describing Military Intelligence doctrine, which

show that very important agents can be met in official installations using as

cover for their presence there sone sort of open business: Vice Admiral

32064

34

Document Number

for FOlA Review on

A11D

HER 12796

RECORD COPY

-538

APR 1975

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON! 6 APR 1976

E A IMPDET CL BY 012208

2370063

201-289248

HH 53320 DocId:32395389 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-2 -

L. BEKRENEV, In a top secret lecture to a Soviet Military Intelligence course

at Military-Diplomatic Academy, 1960, said,

"Case officers who use as cover, let us say, the Soviet Trade

Representation, TASS or Sovinformburo, can use their cover

assignments as backstopping for non-clandestine meetings with

certain agents whose particular activities officially associate

them with the previously mentioned Soviet Institutions. However,

such non-clandestine meetings within a legal residency should be

restricted to a minimum both as to place and time. Meetings of

this type should be carried out only in exceptional cases with

tested and rellable agents in order to avoid provocation by the

local counterintelligence service against the Soviet installation

being used as cover.

Such meetings are held as a rule in the work

offices of the case officer or of the agent during working hours.

It is necessary that such meetings be conducted naturally, that

they do not attract the attention of outsiders, and that the receipt

and transmittal of intelligence matters, properly camouflaged, be

carried out discreetly. In setting up such meetings, measures against

tapping must be taken. One must bear in mind that a meeting with

persons outside official premises and during non-working hours usually

signifies a relationship

beyond official matters, "between the two parties that is above and

Also, such contact in official installations may be caused by the agent's owa

carelessness. Again Admiral BEKRENEV speaks:

"Some agents, because of inexperience or because of deliberate

violation of the rules of security through peculiar personal

rashness, ....

approached our case officers at places not stipulated

as operational meeting sites, others telephoned the case officer at

his Soviet Installation and discussed personal contact arrangements,

while others still showed up personally at the Soviet installation ir

order to contact the case officer.

4. I called the above connections to the attention of Mr. Pappich by

phone to his FBI office at 1030 hours on 23 November.

....a

NH 53320 DocId: 32395389 Page 3

---

## Page 4

".

3-

5. I an attaching

1) a summary of our information on KOSTIKOV; and

2) all valid background information now available on the work

of the 13th Department of the Foreign Intelligence of the KGB:

Service (Kat te From port, on the Do et state seror ALADE.

b. Soviet Use of Kidnapping and Assassination -- Executive

Action, dated August 1960.

c. Soviet Strategic Executive Action, dated October 1961.

Chief, SR/CI

MH 53320

DocId: 32395389

Page 1

---

## Page 5

SUBJECT: Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV

KOSTIKOV, who was born on 17 March 1933 in Moscow, was

assigned to the Soviet

Embassy in Mexico City as Vice Consul

on 19 September 1961.

• A fluent Spanish speaker, he had travelled abroad at least

three times before this permanent assignment; moreover, in 1959

KOSTIKOV applied for a visa to accompany Premier Nikita Sergeye-

vich KHRUSHCHEV's party to the United States as an official of

the Soviet Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but we have no record

of his having come to this country at that time.

KOSTIKOV

served as an interpreter at international conferences at Madrid

and Barcelona in 1958 and 1959.

In late 1959 and early 1960

he attended Soviet exhibitions in Mexico City and Havana; he

is known to have been in Cuba from 6 January to T March 1960.

The physical description of KOSTIKOV quite accurately fits

that of a Soviet case officer who nearly a year ago met in

Mexico an FBI-controlled double agent.

This double agent's

Soviet case officer in the United States has been Oleg Danile-

vich BRYKIN of the Thirteenth Department, KGB First Chief

Directorate, occupying the overt position of translator-trainee,

U.N. Secretariat, New

York City.

BRYKIN was stationed in New

York City from December 1960 to July of this year.

Since arriving in Mexico, KOSTIKOV is known to have travelled

three times outside the capital: In March 1963 and again for the

first two weeks of September he went to Tijuana, Ensenada, and

Mexicali, ostensibly for the purpose of purchasing cotton.

U.S. Department of State, however, has reported that during

these trips KOSTIKOV met local representatives of Movimento

Liberation National and Central Compesina Independienta, both

large Communist front organizations.

In addition, according to

FBI sources, KOSTIKOV was accompanied

Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERYEV, and he

persons including Communist sympathizers who previously had

associated with Soviet officials stationed in Mexico City.

ALFERYEV, a PRAVDA correspondent in Mexico, was in close

contact with Cuban diplomats and local Communist

leaders during

a February 1962 visit to Quito.

NH 53320

DocId: 32395389 Page 5

---

## Page 6

• REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

20, + 3-5958

23 November 1963

£X-25550

PANORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director, Plans

FROM:

Acting Chief, SR DivisionS

SUBJECT:

Contact of lee OSYAID with a member of Soviet KGB

Assassination Department

l. According to an intercepted phone call in Mexico City, Lee OSWALD

was at the Soviet Embassy there on 28 September 1963 and spoke with the

Consul, Valerly Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV.. This was learned when OSWALD called

the Soviet Embassy on 1 October, Identifying himself by name and speaking

broken Russian, stating the above and asking the guard who answered the phone

whether there was "enything new concerning the telegram to Washington."

The guard checked and then told "OSWALD that & request had been seat, but

nothing had as yet been geceived.

(MEXT 6453, 9 October 1963)

The FBI liaison

officer, Mr. Pappich, told ne on 23 Novenber that the Bureau has reason to

believe

that OSWALD's visit was to get Soviet support for a U.S. passport or

visa natter perhaps the new passport mentioned in the press articles.

2.

KOSTIKOV 1s an identified KCB alliger. He was a case officer in an

operation waich is evidently sponsored by the KGBTs 13t Department (responsible

for saboteze and assassination.

als operation which is coatrolled by the

FBI under the cryptony TUMBLEWSHD, involved a German-national resident of

021ahona wao weS recruthed i Drape, a Hot the Year SaEL KOSTROV in Mexico

City and shortly thereatter with a known 13th Department officer. Oles BRyKIl,

in New sork: The fastructions given TUMBLEWD by the two officers, (opointing

objectives for sabotage) and the circumstances of their involvement in the case,

left no doubt that both of them were working for the same KGB component, the

13th.

3. Of course it is not usual for a KGB agent on a sensitive mission to

have such overt contact with a Soviet Embassy. However, die have top secret

Soviet intelligence documents, describing Military Intelligence doctrine, nich

shot that very important agents can be met in official installations using as

cover for their presence there some sort of open business:

Vice Admiral

- 538 LDENIED]

Document Number

for FOlA Raview on

APR 1975

VELASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED

§ APR 1976

RECORD COPY

723M10763

201-259248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

53320

DocId: 32395389

Page '6

D0237

PAES

207 0s 212

307:

---

## Page 7

• REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

.

2

L. BERRENEV, In & top secret lecture to a Soviet Military Intelligence course

at Military-Diplomatic Academy, 1960, said,

"Case officers Who use as cover, let us say, the Soviet Trade

Representation, LASS or soviniormburo, can use their cover

assignents as backstopping for non-clandestine meetings with

certain agents whose particular activities officially associate

them with the previously mentioned Soviet institutiong. However,

such non-clandestine meetings within a legal resideacy should be

restricted to a minim both as to place and timer. Meetings of

this type should be carrled out only in exceptional cases with

testet and rellable agents in order. to avoid provocation ay the

local counterintelligence service against the Soviet installation

beins used. as coxer.

such meetings are held as a rule in the work

offices of the case officer or of the agent during working hours.

It Is necessary that such meetings be conducted naturally, that

they do not attract the sttention of outsiders, and that the receipt

and transuittal of intelligence matters, properly camouflaged, be

carried out discreetly. In setting up such meetings, measures against

tapping must be taken.

One must bear in mind that a meeting with

persons outside official premises and during non-working hours usually

signifies a relationship

between the two parties that is above and

beyond official matters.

Also,

such contact in official installations may be caused by the agent's ora

carelessness.

Again Admiral BuKRaNDY speaks:

"Some agents, because of inexperience or because of deliberate

Molator us the ches of security through peculiar personal

rashness, .. approached our case officers at places not stipulated

as operational meeting sites, others tereghoned the case officer at

his soviet installation and discussed personal contact arrangements,

while others stit showed un personally at the Soviet instattatior in

order to contact the case officer.

4. I called the above connections to the attention of Mr. Pappich by

phone to his FBI office at 1030 houds on 23 November.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

HW 53320

Docia: 32395389 Page 7-

6002 81

208

• 212

PAZE

C63:

---

## Page 8

•REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SUBJECT: Valeriy Vladinirovich KOSTIKOV

KOSTIKOV, who was born on IT March 1933 in Moscow, was

assigned to the Soviet Enbassy in Mexico City as

on 19 September 1961.

A fluent Spanisk speaker, he had travelled abroad at least

three tines before

this permanent assignment; moreover?

in 1959

KOSTIKOV applied for a-visà to accompany Prenier Nikita

Sergeye-

vicH KHRUSHCHEV'o party to the United States as an official

of

the soviet Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but we-have no

record

of his having come to this country at that time. KOSTIKOV

served as

an interpreter at international conferences.

at Madrid

In late 1959 and darty 1960

and Barcelona in 1958 and 195% in Mexico City and Havana; be

he attended Soviet exhibitions

is known to have been in Cuba from 6 January to T March 1960.

The physical description of KOSTIKOV quite accurately fits

that of a soviet case officer who nearly a year ago met in

Mexico an FBI-controlled double agent.

This double agent's

Soviet case officer in the United States has been Oleg Danile-

vich BRYKIN of the Thirteenth Department, KGB First Chief

Directorate, occupying the overt position of translator-trainee,

New York City.

BRYKIN was stationed in New

York City from December 1960 to

July of this year.

Since arriving in Mexico, KOSTINOV is known to have travelled

three times outside the capital:

In. March 1963 and again for the

first two weeks of September he went to Tijuana, Ensenada, and

Mexicali, ostensibly, for the purpose of purchasing cotton. The

U.S. Departuent of state, however, has reported that during

these trips KOSTIKUk net local representatives of Movinento

Liberation Nationalland Central ConDesina Indevendienta,

both

large communist front organizations.

according to

"BI SOUrCeS, KOSTIKOV was accompanied on the September trip b

Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERYAY, and he contacted in Insenada severa.

persons including Comunist sympathizers who previously. had been

associated with soviet orticials stationed an Mexico City.

ALFERYEV, a PRAVDA correspondent in Mexico, was In close

contact X. Cuben diplowat and locat Coumnist leaders during

February 1962 visit to Quito.

REPRODUCTION

HH 53320

PROHIBITTED

DocId: 32395389

Page 8

caterer

FAGE

209 o: 212

C02"

---

## Page 9

•REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SUaJECT: Valessy Vladinisorich SOsTIaOy (201-305652)

COSTINOVNãO vaS bOID Oa IT MarCà 1933 10 Moacos, vas

assinaad to tra

Sariot SEbASSy 1a 1031C0 City sa

V1 ca

C0n33]

on 19 Baptander 1051.

¿PInont Spaniah aparios, be bad travellod abroad at least

tures tines berory this persanast Isalgases:: 20re07a5,

Frica suBUsiCHays party to the Unlted seatos as as orficial of

cs as mring cong to dals countan at that tiro.

=4 BaICalOnA 1E 195S 8n4 1959-I1 1948 1959 3n1 03737 1960

SE dELandEd SOTIOT eSTiDiCIORA In MOZICO CliT CAd INTSAAS Li

Pavilionly identshit beg pering

sao physicalidasezIstlos of ROSTINOT ABILe aCcErITalY its

that of a 50rret cage officer too seeryt a goar ago sat in

Suit? casa offlear 10 the alted States hag bead Cles Darila-

rich sainla of tha thirtaanti Departnast, 59S First Chief

Directorato, cocuszidE tho oar pos1:1o0 of transistor-treinca,

Unio jecretariat,

New 105% 01J.

City 5503 Daceaber 1980

31ACE arISVIBBIN HAXICO, KOSTIKOY 13 Zhour tO hare trayalled

targe tings outaldo the capitals Ia March 1953 and agala sor tba

FIrst ENo voalg-01. LopteRber Do cant to 51juaao, Jasenado, and

¡texicals, outangibly lor the surpose of parebasins cotton.

¿ad. Dagestsent of Sisto, boverar, bas roported that duriaz

=EB9 67153 LUSTINOV sot L00DI represenSatires or Movinenta

FBI SORICES, HOSTILOY sas seccajanied on sha Japtaabas trio by

Ivas GarFIlOTica ALIBRYlE, end Do costactaS 13 Insenada deTersI

-CISGaS lacidiag Goanuslst Bympathizers sho DIeticssly bad bees

aiGOCiated ultS 3OTle0 DIficiala statloned 1n Mosico ClE,.

ALTEBIZY, A PRAVDÀ COFFESPONdOLE IS MOXICO, NAS 1I CLOSE

contact, viti

Cubar

diplonats and local Cozaaris" lendary carins

+H90T7T: 1982 05316 +0 S10.

cigare deemed lee de cattami,

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

HH 53320

DocId: 32395389

Page 9

CeC2 85

FAZE

210

212

---

## Page 10

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Wife: Rosa. Aleksandrovna, born 2 March 1932 Arkhangel Oblast.

Daughter:: Svetlana Valerievna born 1959, Moscow.

Wiferand daughter accompanied Subject to Mexico.

Graduate Of foretea hangues Institude and/or institute of

Foreign Affairs, Moscow.

Fron 30 June to 10 July 1959 was at the Electrotechnical

Congress in Madrid; attended a conference in Madrid

and Barcelona in 1958.

Novenber 1959 to 6 January 1960 - Soviet Exposition in

Mexico City.

Contacts in Ensenada, Baja, California, Septenber 1963:

•1. Daily with Isaak Karlos CHAPLUK (201-229418)

and with CHAPLUK's son.

2. T September, stayed 45 minutes at Nuna SIMANOVKA's

Curio Shop.

3. T September, dinner with Miguel POPOFF (201-286055)

Note that

ALFEREV

claimed that he was a guest of the party of

Eva Sanano de Lopez MATEOS, wife of the President of Mexico,

Adolfo Lopez MATEOS,.: On the trip to Baja, California; lrs.

Lopez was attending a Congress of the National Institute for

the Protection of Children.

201-259248

REPRODUCTION

F ROHIBITED

177753320

DocId: 32395389

Page/ 10-

6012884

PAZE

СОРУ

211 • 212

170.

---

## Page 11

23 Novenber 1953

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Asslotant Deputy Director, Ilens

Acting Chief, SR Division

contact of lee OSWALD with a kerber of foviet KGB

Ascassinstion Departeent

1. Accoriina to an Intercepted phone cell 1a Mexico City, Ife OSWALD

vas st the soviet imbassy there on 28 Septenber 1963 and spoke

with the

Consul, Valeriy Vlaäinirovich KOSTINOV.

This was learned when OSWALD' called

the soviet Dabousy on l October, identifying binsol? by come and spesking

broken Rusalau, stating the above and esking the guard who answared the phone

whether there wes

"enything row concernind the telegran to inshington."

The guard checked and then told OSWALD that a request had been sent, but

nothing bod es jet been receives. (MEXI 6453, 9 October 1963)

The FBI liaison

officer, MI. Fappich, told le ou 23 lovenber that the Buretu hus resson to

•belleve that OStAlD's vislt was to dot sovlet support for a J.S. pasapurt or

v1sa matter perhaps the ner passport nentioned in tie press nrticles.

2..

KOSTIKOV 1s an identifted Mb officer. He was & crse officer in an

operation which is evidectly sponsored by the MB's 13th Depertuent (responsiblo

for sabotage and sisassination). Thin uporstion, which 1s controlled by the

FBi under the cryptonyn TUNILKWEl, Involved & Germi-netloml resident of

Oiclahome who wes recruited in Europe, and mat this yesr with KOStROV la Mesico

city and shortly thereafter with u known 13th Departuent officer, Oled Brika,

1a New York.

The instructiona given Tulavest by the two officers, (pinpointing

objectiven for sabotage) and the cirsuastances of their Involveuent in the cese,

left no doubt thai both of then were working for the sane kes composent, the

13th.

3.

Of course it 1s not unurl for a ich syoni on a sensitive mission to

have such overt contuct wità a soviet Faunasy.

However, we have top secret

Soviet Intelligence documents, describing Willtary Intellikonce doctrine, which

show that very liportant agents can be net in official installations using 95

cover for their presence there sole sort of open business: Vice Admil

H# 53320

DocId: 32395389

Page 11

---

## Page 12

2-

L. BEKHDEV, 1n & top secret lecture to s Soviet Military Intelligence cource

at H1l1tary-Dijalonst1c Acadeny, 1960, said,

"Case officers nio use as cover, let us sey, the Soviet Trade

Representation, TASs or sovinformburo, can use their cover

assignments as backstopping for ron-clandestine neetings with

certain agents whose particular activities officially associate

then with the previously rentioned Soviet Institutions. However,

such non-clandestine meatings within a legel residency should be

restricted to a mininum both as to place aad time. Meetings of

this typo should be carried out only in exceptional cases tita

tested and relleble agents in order to avoid provocation by the

local counterintelligence service agsinst the sovlet Installetion

being used as cover.

Such meetings an held as a rule in the work

officeo of the case officer or of the agent during vorking hours.

It is necessary that such weetings be couducted naturally,

that

they do not attrect the cttention of outsiders, and that tlie receipt

and transmittal of Intelligence natters, properly camourlagad, be

carried out discreetly. In setting up such meetines, measures against

tapping must be taken.

One must bear in mind that a neeting with.

persons outalde official premises and during non-vorking hours usually

signllies & relationship between the two parties that 1s above und

begond official matters.

such contact in official Installations may be caused by the agent's our

A18o1055096 Again Adatral PRENV speaks:

"Bone agents, because of inexperience or because of deliberate.

violation of the rules of security through pecullar personal

raabness,.... approached our case officers at places not stipulated

as operational meeting sites, others telephoried the case officer at

his Soviet Installation and discussed personal contact arrangements,

unfle others still showed uy personally at the Soviet installation in

order to contret the cese officer.

I called the above connections tó the attention of Mr. Peppich by

pinone to his PBI office at 1030 hours on 23 November.

53320

DocId:32395389

Page

12

---

## Page 13

3 -

5.

I am attaching

1) a sumary of our information on KOSTIKOV; and

•all valid background Intormation now availabLe

i the 13th Departuent of the Foreim Intelligence of the Ku

Extracts from Report on the Soviet State Security

Service (KGB), dated May 1963, bused on Information from AtLADIS.

Action, dated August 1960. sping and Assassination - Executive

Soviet Strategie Executive Action, dated October 1961.

Tennent E. Bagley

Chief, SH/CI

WW 53320 DocId: 32395389

Page 13

---

## Page 14

SUBJECT: Valerly VladiaisovIch KOSTIKOV

KOSTIKOV, who was born on 1T March 1933 in Moscow.

assigned to the soviet

Embassy

in Mexico City as

Cousul

on

19 september 1901.

A fluent Spanish

speaker, he had travolled abroad at least

three times before this reruanent assignment,

ROICOVAID

in

1959

KOSTIKOV applied for a visa to accompady

Premier Nikita

Sergere-

vica KHRUSHCHEV's party to the United States as an official of

the Soviet Ministry of Foralia Affairs, but ve have no record

of his having cone to this

country at that time.

KOSTIKOV

sorved as an interpreter at laternational conferences at dadria

and Barcelona in 195ô and 1959.

In late 1959 and early 1960

he attenued soviet exhibitions in Mexico City and Havena, he

15 KNOWD

to have been ln Cuba fron 6 January to 7 March 1960.

The physical description of KOStINOV quite accurately fita

of a Soviot case

officer who nearly a year ago net in

Mexico an III-controlled double agent.

This double agent'e

case officer in the Unitad States has been Oleg Danile-

vich BRYKIN of the Thirteenth Departnent, KGB First Chiet

Directorate, occupying the overt position of translator-treinee,

secrotariat, New York City.

BRYKIN was stationed in law

City Iron December 1950 to July of this jerr.

Since arriving In Mexico, KOSTIKOV 1s known to have travelled

three tines outside the capital:

In March 1953 and

again for the

first two weeks of Septenber he vent to Iijuana, Essenada, and

Mexicall, ostensibly ior the purpose of purchasing cotton.

The

U.3. Department of state, hovever, has reported that during

these trifs KOSTIKOV net

local representatives of lovinento

large Consunist froat 0rgan1zat10ns.

addition, according to

FBI SOUrCES, ROSFIKOV vas accompanied on the September trip by

Ivan Gavrilovich ALPERYEV,

and he contacted in

incesada several

persons Including Connunist sympnthizers who previously had been

assoclated with

Soviet officials stationed in Mexico City.

ALFERTEV, & PRAVDA correspondent in Mexico, vas in close

contact with Cuban diplonats

and local Conmunist lerders during

3 FebruRTy 2962 visit to Quito.

HH 53320

DocId:32395389

Page

14

---

## Page 15

23 Novembez 1953

KIPRENDUM FOB: Asslotant Deputy Director, Flans

FRON:

Acting Chief, SR Division

SUBJECT:

Contact of Lee OSHAiD with a member of Soviet KGB

Aseassinat1or Departeent

1. Accoraline to an Interrepted phone call in Mexico City. Lee OSWALD

vas sit

the Soviet Embassy there on 28 Seutenber 1963 and spoke with the

Consul, Valeriy Vladinirovich KOSTINOV. This was learned when OSAALD called

the Soviet Embasay ou l October, Ilentifying himsoli by rame and speaking

broken fusai, statiny the above and esking the guard who answere the phone

whether there wes

"anything sew concerndin the teleran to wnshingtor."

The guard checked and then told OSWID that a request had been seat, but

nothing bad as jet been received. (MENI €453, 9 October 1963) The FBI liaison

offirer, Mr. Fappich, told re on 23 forenter tiat the Bureau hus reason to

bellevo that OswalD'e vislt was to let sovlet support for i 3.6. passport or

visa astter (perhaps the new pessport mentioned in tie press articles.

KOSTIKOY 1s es identified MCH officer. Fe was a case officer in an

operation which is evidently sponsored by the KGB's 13t1 Deportent, (responsiblo

for sabotage and sisassination). This uperation, which 1s controlled by the

Fai under the cryptoryn IUTLINED, Involved & Germau-netloual resident of

Oilahome who wes recruited 1n Europe, and mat this veer with KOERIKOV in Mexico

city and shortly therentter with & known 13th Departuent officer, oleg Batht!,

In Her York.

Tie instructiona given TURlEwinD by the tuo officers, (pinpointing

objectives for sabotage) and the cirsistances of their Involvement

in the cese,

left no doubt that both of them vere working for the same sly component, the

13th.

3. Of course It 13 not unual lor a X01 seni on i sensitive mission to

have such overt contuct

with a soviet Fubnasy.

However, we have top secret

Soviet intelligence docurents, describing Milltury Intelligence doctrine, which

shos that very limportant agents can be net in official inctalletions using as

cover for their presence

there sole sort of open busicesa: Vice Admimel

| HH 53320

DocId: 32395389

Page 15

---

## Page 16

2 -

L.. BEKRENEV, IN & top secret locture to s Soviet Militury Intelligence course

ot H1l1tary-Diplomat1e Acadeny, 1960, sald,

"Case officers no uso as cover, let us sey, the soviet trade

Representation,

Tass or sovinformburo, can use their cover

RESINnIents EB

backstopping for ron-clandestine nestings with

certain agents whose particular activities officially associate

then with the previously rentioned soviet institutions.

However,

such non-clandestins meetings within a legal residency should be

restricted to a mininum both as to place and tine. Meetings of

this typo should be carried out only in exceptional cases with

tested and ralluble agents 11 order to avoid provocation by the

local counterintelligence service against the Soviet installution

being used as cover.

Such meetings are held as a rule in the work

offices of the case officer or of the agent during working hours.

It is necessary that such meetings be conducted naturally, that

they do not attreet the ettention of outsiders,

and that tlie receipt

und transulttal of intelligence matters, properly carouilaged, be

carried out discreetly. In setting up such meetines, messures sgainst

tapping, must be taken.

One must bear in mind that a meeting with

persons outaide official premises and üuring non-vorklug houra usually

signifies & relationship

between the two parties that 1s above und

beyond official natters."

Also, such contact in official Installations way be caused by the agent's own

carelessness. Again Adntral EXTRENEV speaks:

"Some agenta, because of inexperience or because of deliburate

violation of the rules of security through peculiar personal

rasbness,.... approached our case officers at places not stipulated

as operational meeting sites, others telephored the case officer at

his Soviet Installation and alscissed personal contact arrangements,

while others still showei up personally at the soviet installation In

order to contret the case officer."

I called the above connections tó the attention of Mr. Pappich by

pinone

to his FBI office at 1030 hours on 23 November.

-..

ww: 53320

DocId: 32395389

Page 16

---

## Page 17

3 -

5.

I an attaching

1) a sumary of our inforation on KOSTIKOV; ana

• all valid baciground Information now available o

• the 13th Department of the Foreim Intelligence of the Ki

the work

Extracts from Report on the soviet state security

Service (KGB), dated May 1963, bused on information from AFLADLE.

Soviet Use of Kidnapping and Assassination -- Ex

Action,

dated August 1960.

cutive

Soviet Strategic Executive Action, dated October 1961.

Tensent H. Bagley

Chief, SR/CI

|HH 53320 DocId: 32395389

Page 17

---

## Page 18

this

SUBJECTS Valerly Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV

KOSTIKOV, Who was born on 17 March 1933 in Moscow, vas

assigned to the sovlet Embassy in Mexico City

as VICe Consul

on 19 septenber 1961.

A fluent Spanish spenker, he had travelled abroad at lcast

three times bafore this permanent assignment, moreover.

in 1959

KOSTIKOV applied for a visa to accompany

Premier Nikita Sergeye

vich KHRUSHCHEV's party to the United States as an official of

the Soviet Miniatry of Forolga Affairs, but ve have no record

of his having cone to this country at that time.

KOSTIKOV

served as an interpreter at international conferences at Madrid

nad Sarcelona 11 1958 and 1959.

In late 1959 end early 1960

ho attenued soviet axhibitions

in Mexico City and Havana, he

Ig KNOWn

to have veen In cuba foon 6 January to 1 March 1960.

The physical description of KOSIIKOY quite accurately fits

that of o

soviet case

officer who nearly a year ago net

¡exico an FEI-controlled double agent.

This double agent'e

Soviet

case officer in the United states has been Oleg Danile-

vich BRYkIN of the

Thirteenth Departuent, KGB First Chief

Directorato, occupying the overt position of tranglator-treines,

Vol, Secrotariat. New York City.

BRYKIN was stationed in law

York city fron December 1950 to July of this jear.

Since arriving In Mexico, KOSTIKOV 1s known to have travelled

tliree tinas outside the capital:.

In March 1963 and again for the

first two weeks of Septesber he vent to lijuana, Essenade, and

Nexicall, ostensibly

for the purpose of purchasing cotton.

U.5. Departnent of state, hovever, has reported that during

these trips KOSTIKOV net

large Connunist front organizations.

audition, according to

FBI GOUICES,

ROSTIKOV was accompanied on the Septenbor trip by

Ivan GaVrIlOViCh ALPERYEV, and he contacted in insenada several

persons including Communist sympnthizers who previously had been

associated with soviet officialo stationed in Mexico City.

ALFERYEV, a PRAVDA corespondent in Mexico, vas

in close

contact with Cuban diplomats

and local Cosmunist leeders during

3. Februery 1962 visit to Quito.

HTH 53320 DocId: 32395389

Page 18

---

