# docid-32308927

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10297-10054

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-6054-2576

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, BU

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/21/1969

3

LCN, MEMBERS A/O ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, INDICTMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32308927

21

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

DATE: 17211-2017

FBI WASH DC

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR 2 1 1969

TELET

(11 USC 2107 Hote):

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Bishop-

Mr.

Casper_

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Mr. Roser

Mr. Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

FBI-BUFFALO

1-13 P URGENT 3/21/69 CIMSP

TO DIRECTOR (92-6054)

FROM BURBLO 892-3371

st

-

LA COSA NOSTRA,

BUFFALO DIVISION.

REMYTEL, OCT. IWENTYFOUR LASI, CAPTIONED "RUSSELL

DE CICCO, AKA; ETAL, IISP DASH MI, O0 BUFFALO, BUFILE

EIGHTYSEVEN DASH ONE ZERO ONE FIVE NINE NINE."

Buffere

AS REPORTED IN RETEL, FORMER NU FOUR FIVE ONE DASH

C DASH TE, AND BU FOUR SIX IWO DASH C. PREVIOUSLY FURNISHED

INFO WHICH RESULTED IN RECOVERY BY BUFFALO AGENT ON AUG.

TWENTYNINE LAST OF APPROXIMATELY ONE AND ONE HALF MILLION

DOLLARS IN STOLEN ART TREASURES. THESE IRREPLACEABLE

TREASURES WHICH INCLUDED PAINTINGS BY

101549

SCOLDED COPY FILED IN

PICASSO, RENOIR,

CEZANNE AND RODIN WERE STOLEN FROM DR. I. EDWARD HANLEY

RESIDENCE IN BRADFORD, PENNSYLVANIA ON AUG. TWENTYONE

LAST.

REC 99 92-6054-9576

FORMER BU FOUR FIVE ONE DASH C DASH TE IDENTIFIED

SUBJECTS AND AGREED TO TESTIFY IN USDC REGARDING THIS MAJOR 26 1969

THEFT. AS A RESULE

OF TESTIMONY BY THIS INFORMANT AND BUREAU

AGENTS,

EN

APR-2 - 1969

ENDED LAST MIGHT WHEN JURY FOUND RUSSELL DE C1OCO,

MAR

DocId: 32308927 Page 2

---

## Page 3

•Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: J4=11-2017

PAGE TWO.

RENE DE CICCO, GREGORY PARNESS AND LOUIS MARKUS GUILTY OF VIOLATION

OF TITLE EIGHTEEN, USC, SECTION THREE SEVEN ONE. IMMEDIATELY AFTER

VERDICT, USDA JOHNO. HENDERSON RAISED RUSSELL DE CICCORS BAIL IO

ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS AND HE WAS REMANDED TO ERIE COUNTY

JAIL IN LIEU OF THIS HIGH BAIL. ALL OTHER SUBJECIS CONTINUED ON

BAIL PENDING APPEAL.

IT IS NOTED THAT THIS TRIAL IS FIRST OF MANY MAJOR LCN

INVESTIGATIONS INITIATED AND SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETED BY BUFFALO

OFFICE TO REACH USDO, BUFFALO. AMONG THOSE UNDER INDICIMENI ARE

STEFANO MAGADDINO, "CHAIRMAN" OF LON COMMISSION AND MOSI POWERFUL

LON LEADER IN NORTH AMERICA, ALSO CHARGED IN CONNECTION WITH ANOTHER

INVESTIGATION IS RUSSELL A. BUFALINO, "BOSS" OF THE PITISION DASH

SCRANTON FAMILY OF LON.

DEPARIMENTAL ATTORNEY EDWARD T. JOYCE ADVISED LAST

NIGHT THAT HE ANTICIPATES THAT THE BUFALINO CASE WILL IN LIKELIHOD

BE NEXI ORGANIZED CRIME CASE TRIED IN USDO, BUFFALO. SINCE FORMER BU

FOUR FIVE ONE DASH C DASH TE IS THE MAJOR GOVERNMENT WITNESS AGAINSI

BUFALINO.

END PAGE TWO

DocId: 32308927 Page 3

---

