# docid-32286178

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10194-10454

RECORD SERIES: HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-9-1257

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/03/1963

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

THP, MISUR, ACT, ASSOC, INTV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

19.1

DocId: 32286178

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the JolriF. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 929350Sub-U

Later in the discussion of this transaction, MARCY

was told by the unknown individual that he was

surprised that MARCY was not let in on this deal.

He continued "The guy told me the night he gave me

this too bad you (referring to MARCH) had to go some-

where. He was there at the Armory."

The above information is of interest from

the standpoint that the New York and Chicago Divisions

have a pending investigation concerning the activities

of one DON J. FERRARO of New York City who has made -

frequent trips to the Chicago area during which time

""it has been developed that the purpose of these trips

is concerned withUnited Equity Insurance Company US

As noted it was

stated that one meeting regarding this

company was held at the Armory Lounge which is known

to be the headquarters of Chicago top hoodlum. SAM

GIANCANA indicating a tie-up between GIANCANA and/or

and the

and FERRARO. NY aDVISED BY SEPARATE LETTER.

The remainder of the day was spent in discussions

revolving about the present plans of FIO RITO to submit

his resignation

to the Mayor as the Alderman of Chicago's

First Ward.

It is apparent that MARCY, D'ARCO and

TISCI are all extremely concerned regarding FIO RITO'S

consideration in this matter based on the fact that it

was MARCY who was responsible for FIO RITO's selection

and it was MARCY who promised GIANCANA that/ he would

be able to control FIO RITO in all matters.

MARCY

advised that "If we get wacked today (in the FIO RITO

matter) it will be bad.

Now what the (obscene) good

is it if we get wacked today fOr MOE(SAN GIANCANA) taL

say well now we got to get organized.

We know we got

to organize.

But when they get through today I will

know everything." The above reference to their getting

through today would refer to a meeting held with the

iayor o1 Chicago and the top Italian politicians

city, namely JOHN DYARCO, former Alderman of the Firs

Ward, ANTHONY GIROLAMI, Clerk of the Probate Court of

Cook County,

VITO MARZULLO, FRANKXCHESROW, Head of the

Sanitary District, and FIO

RITO!

It is known from CG 6498-PC, who was present

at this meeting, that FIO RITO was advised by the Mayor

that what the Mayor requested in this situation was for

FIO RITO to take

the pressure off of the city council

•2.

DocId: 32286178

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-350Sub-U

in this matter by making a sworn statement before

the council melt set that no irregularitles had

occurred in his election as Alderman.

The Mayor

advised that if FIO RITO would do this he would

back him all the way in this matter. It was learned

from the informant that FIO RITO is not willing to

do this.

MARCY continued "Now if we blow this (obseene)

thing today we are through because once they see this

you've lost all your (obscene) power."

The above statement reflects the value

of the FBI's investigation into this matter and

indicates that the intention to create turmoil vithin

in this regard and does not desire to lose this battle.

MARCY continued in this regard "We got to win TONY.

We're (obscene) if you don't win.

If you don't win

when you got

in trouble. A Buys like MARZULLO and CHESROW YOu're

CHESROW sat in the meeting and didn't

do you do not MARZUlLO mado one statement "So what

One last iten of inforhation

occurring on

April 29, reflected that RALPharvIs, nationally

with

On 4/30/63, MARCY met early in the morning

an unknown individual regarding a police arrest

somewhere within the First District.

No detail was

as to whether it was a gambling or vice arrest, but

the individual has requested that MARCY get in touch

notated out rewarding ta captain on TORN, e

Commanding Officer of the First District.

given

STIA

DocId: 32286178 Page

---

