# docid-32373019

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

3/8/2017

Agency Information

AGENCY: CIA

RECORD NUMBER :

104-10268-10015

RECORD SERIES: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

80T01357A

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

TO :

TITLE: HELMS HEARING DUPLICATE - VOLUME IV, COPY 10 OF HELMS HEARING.

DATE: 01/01/0000

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel •

Case#:NW 53216 Date:

06-08-2017

DUPLICATE

VOL IV, COPY 10

UNIT INDEX

HELMS HEARING

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER - TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Not Marked

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK4: F16: 1998.05.13.18:03:58:090031 : DUPLICATE OF VOL IV, COPY 1 OF HELMS

HEARING IN JFK3, F4 WHERE DOCUMENTS WERE INDIVIDUALLY PROCESSED. THIS

COPY WAS UNIT INDEXED.

v9.1

HH 53216 DocId: 32373019 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10268-10015

C

S.A.Stern/3w/3-27-64

fir. Rankin

lix. Stora

Files J

MEDRAIDURZ

: He. Ranidi

C/t:

XAAZ-36392

Barch 27, 1904

TROM : S. A. Stera

SUCTECT: CIA MLlo on OJala

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Today, Friday, March 27, 1964, Inct nt CIA headquaricia with

li. Rocca to revier the CIA filo on Ice larcy Oswala.

the file

contains those micrials fumistica to us previoualy by. CIA. In

eudition, 1t contains the following astorials:

22 and 23, 1953 relating to photographs of a person uno bed vicited

he Cuban end Soviet Embassics in Marico Clay during Octouci

overiber 1953; and reports on these cables furnished on lovambo

23 by CIl to the Secret Service.

These nessages are accusticly

prishrased In the attachmenis to tho CIA memorandun of March 24,

2954 (Cormission Document 1074).

Cable of October 10 fron CIA Maxico City cition to CIA

hoadguaricro

reporting on Oswala contact ai Soviet Liassy, and

October 10, 1903 message from CIA cadquarters to Mexico City stavion

of background Information on Ostrald. Icose mcssages are accurately

acported in the CIA accoranium of January 31, 1964.

I did not revlew any materials later than November 23, 1963.

kr. Rocça also showed me the "printout" of the referances to

Oswald documents in the CIA clectronic data storage systen.

was no iton linted which we have not been diven either 1n full teit

or paraphrased.

When I cvidence& an interest in the CIA olectronic deta

processing system, ir. Rocca said that he would arrange a actalled

explanation at a future visit.

TEVEL PROGRAM

PIEDL

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

RECORD COPY

1P/23

Tea TIRE

C//

063572

2010289248.

PAGE

COPY

3408

9

NO.

10

1N 33216

DocId: 32373019 Page 2

---

## Page 3

104-10268-10015

REPRODUCTION

"PROHIBITED

MEMORANDUM FOR: HiT. J. La Runnita

SUBJECT:

Infarrantion Developed by ClA on làe

Acitutty of 10s Harvey OSWALD in

Massleo CHy, Septersbes 29 B0

0xt0064 = 1963

Thie refers to yor lotter of February 10, 1984

reindiay fa intermation lorwarded by this Agency reparting

ta per iF PRODUCTION

CHALD in lexto Gity doztag

No 1963,

•i your lotter sales a question

aspects so investigalien la

BondeD, de conceri

•lenda in the OSHALD caso..

spociftcalty, thas pazagrapà astros to seler da specalative

Intormation provtied the lite Honse by JOSe So LASAGA

which originased with Salvador DIAs VERSON. GlA has

soching so add so the detaliad imestigation si thia soatter

comlustad by the Federal Exaran of livestigation..

We

satuce that the tonsistasion in airoady la peasesalas, o

mull be ta the pear suturos of she defalls al the distcars a

that investigations.

Parag very ciasely wili tae I 31 19 zie

demologinent of another Mexteen lond, as la probably already

mown to the Comalasion, #ia tha coltse al tide cooperation

=In derolopo original, subitantire insterial, it in 097 latiation

Doungradel per

Lip's

fi lescitiacios

RIEPRODUCTION

RAQHIBITED

8 1UE DRO/TASCO

003573

PAGE

5

. COPY NO.

NW 53216 DoeId:32373019 : Page 3

---

## Page 4

104-10268-10015

REPRODUCTION

CHIBITED

of

so do t to deal to to be orado a boy the

4. The lolloming replien so bayed 8o the namer

yout tatter al February 10.

le TO 270 Dol la a position to dapply castes al

Belegrams asse batween tho Sortet Exabassion to

Fantagios and Alexico Guy.

Transitiona si tha tha police inserogation

IEPASTA-0l SIOrA DURAN sto belag forwarded to the

Cosmianion nodes saparate comes.

tho after poor

Is paragraph seven of ore report, on pages four and

sive, is based on tha nisteraerts ol slivia DURAN and

ZUBAN tHIS OSHAM 1A9 at tha Cosenisto at least once

after bis initial viait, and that shis iater viait was 00

Rha afternoos of a day sa bidch tan Cubes Gonnal salo

planed the Sortet Gosantate abune OSWALD'a visa

problore.. This say wall tape been 38 September, but

We do not knor mbether Cuhas Consulata

archiven centated informition on OSWALD anton

dating bla September-October 1963 plait, Srosa tha

stalemento of Silvia DURAN, one coull concludo tbal

Milos al that tire and thich ate lonted 1p

OSWALD'a same Was pablished au the pegaet

of Present Kennedy.

183388

COPY 70f8

2322 09/08/22

003574

AGE 4

HH 53216

DocId: 32373019

Page 4

---

## Page 5

104-10268-10015

REPRODUCTION

S, We do sot think it wrald be naus

DURAN tO BOl OSWALD Do COllA 20t have Doi

transt visa malese be feet got a sove vi AWE BITED

• We bellero thes Silvia DURAN's slatement e5a

ests croat mean that sa sat there could sponsor tira.

pubile charge, On the other land, the remark al the

Soviet alficial manti peors ta imply lord tre Sovieta bad

Endoad the Sortet official vas saillag the trots.

la belloro that OSWALD boch telephoned to ti

RE RODUCTION

alato, and tas intervioned t

so say have sequired s net Texas forwarding addrous

In the procons unlea do gave first lo the Caban Consalate.

thon mislala on forgot, and sinally rocovered from Cabaz

Consulato files no as coul pass 1l to the sorriet Gonsalazo.

I could also be that he man talling about bla Mecico City

hotel addross which he might late momentarily forgostea

#bits at the Sortet consalass.

9 The Crban Consalate and Cuban Exabassy la

Nexico City are separato oilices located in separate

Cut do that gaing to The dan contral to lo ea

Coban offleial pasting lot.

a corner at Marques and Zamora street all.

19 EL 16O MArigoes SErGER, Tha Sories E

Coopalato sso bodi located in a largo sa

DEPRODUCTION

camocted onbai diago.

1Q. Ho curunise shat the referancos in

9 Novembor letter so a tuna subo bed since been replaced

187048

COPY, 70f 8

003575

PAGE

во 8. 20-

53216

Doeid: 32373019

Page 5

---

## Page 6

104-10268-10015

BIBE: Jeer to Cabas Cougal Buseblo A

Stexico for Cuba on permanent trander

GEPRODKICTION

spaced. His rapincessem did arrive in soptercises

ICUE Mes achedated to leavo is October bus dal a

leave until 13 November.

Wo do nos Inor noo might lave tabl OSHAND toal

AZCUE or any other Enbas lad been or una ta be replaced,

Dul te speculate tout Stis DURAN on saNta Soviet official

sight bara sentioned i il OSWALD complataed about .

AZCUS'S alterENtian wis bist.

• 140

We sayini!

tonal Information on OSWALDES

1y. This part al tha inestigation

LET FIO DOT ARClOCASTRO perSONS aR

soupe bave produced what tre regard so hari talcemation.

We cas baly queas thy Steria DURAN described

OSWALD as a blorde. Parbepo his complexion seemed

ligis to her, compared with shas of post Latin Amerleans.

Then she was arrested, she had not seen OSWALd for

abort tus monkhs, but apparently she bad noted him an

a blonde la her Consulas secaras.

Distribution:

Original & 2 = Addressee

- DDP

1 • C/CI.

X-C/CI/R&A

1 - G/WH/3.

CEI/R&A/RGRoccasic/ 18 Feb

prepared by C/WH/3a)

Richard Mckne

Depty Dire

on ion Plata

REPRODUCTION

PROMISED

lary 1964 (Para 4 based on draft

003576

PAGE

COPY NO.

HW 53216

DocId:32373019 Page 6

---

## Page 7

104-10268-10015

CLASSIFICATION

SEATCH TOBORER/ATAS

WH Division

PROCESSING ACTION

REPRODUCTION

ONLY QUALIFIED DEST

"PROHIBITED

FROM

SUBJECT

Chiaf of Station, Mexico City

ZRIAFFY

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Please transmit the attached envelope to Fleicher M. KNIGHT orly.

Willard G. CURTIS

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED

at Next Dapty

Attachment:

Envelope

Distribution:

3 - WH, w/att

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA-22390

CLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION

" PROMBIED

DATE :

25 October

HOS FILE NUTABER

201-

003577

PAGE

1N 33216

Dootd: 32373019 pate7

---

