# docid-32318982

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10368-10116

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-43

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SCHIMAN

TO :

BAUGH

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/25/1993

3.

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/11/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32318982

Page

1

22

---

## Page 2

DATE: _11-14-2017

Memorandum

To

:

Mr. Baugh

Date 3/25/93

From

J. H. Schiman

Dep.

Dir.

ADD Adm._

ADD IM.

Asst. Dir.:

Achi.Servs.

Crim.Inve

ident.

Info.Mgnt. ErY

Insp./

Intelf.

Lab. 1

Legali coun.

Training

Cong. Affs. Off.

Off.

of EEO

Off. Liaison &

Int. Affs.

off. of Public Affs._

Telephone Rm.

Director's Office

subject :

ASSASSINATION MATERIALS DISCLOSURE ACT OF 1992

JOHN F.CKENNEDY

FREEDOM OF INFORMATION/PRIVACY ACTS (FOIPA) SECTION

INFORMATION MANAGEMENT DIVISION (IMD)

Reference memorandum dated 3/10/93, from J. K. O'Brien

to Mr. Baugh captioned "JFK Assassination Materials Task Force,

Freedom of Information/Privacy Acts (FOIPA) Section, Information

Management Division (IMD) •

PURPOSE: To advise of Information Services Section (ISS)

personnel assigned to the JFK Task Force in order to complete

processing of the JFK Assassination materials by the

legislatively mandated deadline of 8/22/93.

RECOMMENDATIONS: 1. That the 25 below listed ISS employees be

assigned to the JFK Task Force for a period of five months,

effective

4/220/93 APPROVED:

Adm. Ssrvs..

inspection -

Off. of EEO Afts..

Crim. liv.

triell. co

Of. of Liaison

Employers

Director

Crim. Jus. Info.

& lot. Alis. -

were acrised

Dap. Dir.

Seivs. -

Lopy Caun..

Of. of Public

ADD-Adm.

ldGt.c

Is sons...

& Cong. Ails..

to report to

ADD-Iny.

том он..

That the 25 below listed ISS employees be

Rom LeT/temporarily assigned to locate and identify JFK assassination

at 9:000m.records from among the information furnished to the House Select

62А-HQ-1029205

Director

Dop. Dir.

ADD-Adm..

ADD-Inv.

Crim. Jus. Info.

Idant.

1 - IMD Front Office, Room 5829

1

- Mr. O'Brien, Room 6296

1

- Mr. Harmon, Room 6712

1

Mr. Schiman, Room 5368

1

- Mr. Perrigo, Room 5350

1

- Mr. Dudney, Room 5342

1 - Mr. Kegebein, Room 5869

all

DER/JHS: der (63)

1

1

1

& In: Añts. —

Oft. ot Public

& Cong. Alls.-

- Mr. Shackelford, Room 4336

- Mrs. Hoke, Room 4955

- Mrs. Rector, Room 4913

- Mrs. Vaughan, Room

5991

- Ms. Hardy, Room 5734

- Each ISS employee

(CONTINUED - OVER)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS ASSIFIDO

DATE 2/13/18 3Y.5668562 md

Doc1d: 32318982 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum from J.

Schiman to Mr. Baugh dated 3/25/93

Re:

Assassination Materials Disclosure Act of 1992

John F.

Kennedy

Freedom of Information/Privacy Acts (FOIPA) Section

Information Management Division (IMD)

62A-HQ-1029205

4/5/93,

DETAILS: Effective 3/28/93, the following ISS employees will be

assigned to the JFK Task Force:

RECORDS DISPOSITION AND ARCHIVAL SUBUNIT

Julia A. Jenkins

R. Rebecca Cummins

E. Darlene Norman

Michael L. Overton

Arnita M.

Singleton

Phyllis A. Williamson

Joyce J. Newman

Barbara

D. Morisi

Margaret T. Winston

Nellie Cora Gill

Viola E. Humphries

Margie Marie Jones

Ocena F. Crabtree

Vernonia P. Kline

Dorothy E. Newby

Robert J. Puglisi

Brenda J. Reid

Pearline Wells

OPERATIONAL SITE. PROCESSING SUBUNIT

David Eric Ammon

E. Latham Hunter

Hosea Stripling, JI.

SPECIAL FILE ROOM SUBUNIT

Christine A. Kowalick

Shirley Ann

Ketchens

G. Denise Wells

Joe Leschia G. Alston

Effective 3/28/93, the following ISS employees will be

temporarily assigned to the JfK task force:

FILE SERVICES UNII

Veronica M. Brooks

Mary E. Butler

Janice M. Dietrich

Georgia C. Hoffman

Cheryl D. Merritt

Carolyn T. Porter

Roy C. Stevens

Dorothy G. Washington

Melody Williams

Tonia R. Williams

Allyson K. Hanson

Denise Y. Butler

PROJECT PROCESSING SUBUNIT

Judy B. Brown

John I. Gorman

Darlene E. Dunning

(CONTINUED - OVER)

2

-PocId: 32318982 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum from J.

Re:

Schiman to Mr. Baugh dated

3/25/93

Assassination Materials Disclosure Act of 1992

John F.

Kennedy

Freedom of Information/Privacy Acts (FOIPA) Section

Information Management Division (IMD)

62А-HQ-1029205

OPERATIONAL SITE PROCESSING SUBUNIT

Jackie Andrews

Sheila Daney

Sophie Fahmy

Rebecca S. Flake

Wanda N. Gaither

SPECIAL FILE ROOM SUBUNIT

Barbara A. Pettigrew

Mildred C. Washington

Cheryl F. Weston

Roger E, Covington

Sonita Fields

Tamika N. Anderson

3

DocId:323189

mate 1

---

