# docid-32323164

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90011-10002

RECORD SERIES:

WMFO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO:

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 02/14/1961

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

MOSS/MORGAN ELSUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: SUMMARY;

Ma..

v9.1

DocId: 32323164

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John, F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 T41 USC TUT Motel

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Washington D.C.

Febuary 14, 1961.

Tuesday•

9:45 AM

WF 456-S]()

NF 456-S](s)

9: 45am

nc

9:52 AM

BF 456-S]()

2157

AM

NF

456-S76)

nc

(5)

(POL] SUNMARX

LD Operator

attempting to contact PIWINSKI. SUNIL

advised her

12:00 PM.

that Lawlski not in, but expected about

cmf

K PIECHOWIAK NYC to UNUE WOMAN saying that & "they".

it fee hout the nails un said tarta chautines

UNID said that a chauffeur

UNLE man (possibly atn State Dpet. toM. BOBROSELLSKI.],

Unit a state or the carnatists tom Polandste said it

would be diaficult forn tah them to have a discussion

today, as MR. VEDLER (ph) is tied up and will be until

UNID suggested that they get together

tomorrow morning at 9:30 AM.

MD said that would be fine.

LILLIAN LEVY (ph) to MRS. MARIA ZWIRTEN.

Me. Is free

come tolsee her.

said she would see Me at 1:00 PM then. 0K.

leis SHOW

JUREAFTSE

CLASSITED BY 5668 SUO/GUL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X)(6) ca

JFK 1 5113/97

SECRET

FOL 19294](5)

65-3076 f0b)

SEARCHED

FEB 1 5 1961

stelsta

= BI - WASH. F.

Ley

Mater

DocId: 32323164 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Reléased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2T07 Noter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

ТЯ))

"2:21 PM

WF 456-5 5)

no cut

2: 59 pm

WE 456-S S)

nc

2:53 PM

WF 456-S]()

no cut

3:06 PM

NF 456-S(5)

no cut

3:18pm

WF 456-S]

(S)

H6-2

Washington, D.C.

February 14, 1961

Tuesday

(POLISI SUMMARY

PORTER PORTOLE M

MARTIN POPPER tO MR ROSS in the Law office of MARTIN

POPPER aLa WOLF in NYC: RoSS advised that he had a cal

from ED JOSS who plans a trip to Burope early in April

He would Tike get the invitation from the Polish)s)

and will

judiciary. PIPER said he is now in BONARSKI'Softice

get right on this matter.

0S/

(S)

LEE MEREDITH to information. She inquired of the times

train troi

to be done on a Friday.

She was told that the New Haven

and Hartford RR had trains at 10:56an arriving NyC

at 12:20pm and 12:1lpm arriving NYC at 2:08pm.

wsh

ERWIN KLINCZAK tO DR IRVING WINIK:]()

ALIMCHAK SIadV

behalf of

ME SPASOWSKI no would like a briefing on STANiSLAV

back to

oland at the cod on ARE couce seatheck out

oland at the end of MARcy

prefer to have hin in & sanatoriumen Paland. wNtil

check and advise.

os/

STRZYGA from the airport to Unid woman at the

adyised that he is at the airport

and he connot find the couriers She advised that they

are there and looking for him. She advised that they

came in by another airline. He will take another book

for them.

(Polish) bs/

(S)

BLICHARZ (P) tO JOSEPH KASZABOWSKI, TX 2-8881 Buffalo,

N.Y. KB said that A. MICHEJDA would be coming to Buffalo

on Friday notningh tor discuss some matters.

KB

asked

if there

was good railroad service from Buffalo to

Utica, NY. Yes ther

a main line from Buffalo to Utica,

the best train is at 1:15pm and arrives ar Utica 200

niles away in about four naurs. un suggested that Al

all him at home 1 6 4370) from NYC on Fridav mornin

before leaving. Agreed.

Polish]s)

wsh

POL 19292 S)

SECRET

DocId: 32323164 Page 3

---

