# docid-32349688

## Page 1

Date: 12/22/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10072-10142

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#: NU 53199 Date:

06-08-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: RID/CR

TO

: WE/BC

TITLE : INTERVIEW/DEBRIEFING OF AMMUG-1; DOCUMENTS BROUGHT OUT

BY AMMUG -1 AND HIS COMMENTS CONCERNING THEM.

DATE: 04/30/1964

PAGES

21

SUBJECTS : INTERVIEW

DEBRIEFING

AMMUG / 1

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION :

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

JFK15: 559: 1993.08.02.18:24:51: 060033: INCLUDES

ROUTING

SHEET

AND

DISPATCH.

NARA: NOTE 20898 here pran

- ORIGINAl ROUTING

SHEET NOT AUAIIMBIEHERE

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10072-10142

HH 53199

DocId: 32349688

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

INVO.

Chlol, Spocial Allairs Stalf

FROM:

chef, WE

Chief of Station; Ot awa

SUBJECT

TYPIC/KUDESK/ AMMUG

Forwarding of Tapes

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Ret: OTTA 1595

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

* CAN SUDOC iNDEXING

Forwarded herewith, from SMABOVE, are 22

of LANGOSCH's interrogation of Subject reference while in

Canada.

A transcript of these interrogations

would be

appreciated by the Ottawa Station and the SMAlVEs.

DAVID W. GENNAND

DOC.

MiCRo, SEx

MICRO*

Remove from Project AMillu.i

Cs tidification:

J03 472

Вок:

LD.

3 todd 47

Fold:

19-6-19123

AttI NSM

Attachment:

22 reels

Distribution:

Vorig & 1

-C/SAS w/att h/w

3 - C/WE w/o att

19-6-102/3

CROSS REFERENCE TO

ANS C

13Á.

PI

401-076496

ESTACH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OCOA 7703-

CLASSIFICATION

DATE

1 Jay 196:

HOS FILE NUMBER

ROT SUITABLE fUN i

CS COPV

#09456

201-07

HH (53199

iTT/TO

DocId: 32349688

0C0A-7763

Page 2

---

## Page 3

2064

30 April 1964

DEBRIEFING OF ALMUG- 1

SUBJECT: Documents Brought Out by AiMUG-l and His Conments Concerning

Then.

Document 12

and? TANGOSCH

/..

he

would give

noints

brict summary in eglish of pois

of

interest:

or cuterest.

Attach

Atcached are three d

24666

the

transcripts made he Rot of shya comments made by ticosch corine

sonic respects but substatially reflect those

parts

of the interviews which were sumned tan angi is

;. English.

2. Lucasell susgested to the now that duplicate condes of the

tapes be made

SO

that the roP could provide KuBiRk with a copy.

rotaining the original for the RCliP. LANCOSCH promised that anything

Affecting the interests

of ties Canada would be translated and furnished

to the RCMP and

that,

in addition, personalitiesy infomation concering

CUIS officers would be provided to them.

Remove from Project firinauc

03

14-4000213

2 5-40710

Fold: --

NOY SUITABLE FOR RICODALM

IS COPY

ATT.

3-01-0749041

ATTITO

0604-7763

HH, 53199 DocId: 32349688

Page 3

---

## Page 4

/ April 23/64

1973-17-34

IN DERVILIS

A CANADA

13:I0dimir Rodrigues Lihera

201-0749651

chool

enoral

15

ignificant

to the present tir:

14,3.

time . I an going to 5o over this fairly

rantaly

Englian

problera

e raised is dam

so that you will be both un to date vat.

He his relatives there a Pel that he wanto to to to the u.s.

that 11s antentaou s

tionivas

to work in

the

states in matters like this, bocause he fecls.

tris

were

he will be nost uberul.

tis father-in-law and vase cr

both

in Cuba and ho is worried about his cottina t es out.

He has given no fin true nane wich is that wich you davo

nircady mentioned to nog tic pseudoryn which he need just

for passport purposes to cover the trip outside.

te 4100

witch 1e Viotor "yery Uniorty, actor lie lets deluol do jad

a couplo of jobs and thon ho begen vorkin: with the 26t.

Of duly soverent, Thro love raront wiio in an anti-

Datista novement and his worle in thas movement veu

the work

of many others.

lie was to commit nots of sabotaco inside

Havana and also to do propocanda voric ma Mile he wan

engaged in such activities he was taken priconcr in 1957

HH 53199 DocId:32349688

"Page 4

---

## Page 5

**)

-

2.-

This was after a fire-fight, he vas in a fire with another

fellow, two police cars came up,..

they exchanged

shots but

they were captured.

He was beaten up and stayed in the

Costillio prinzapay which is a jail in

Havana, wed th was

kept in jail unt bears 2058 won

he got

a Got out.

Macn he

sot out of jail he went, into the

Sacrra

1166722 • 000103100

pt s verted with siond she la the onlines filets

Tantos who do a real the sort de elle

Me dad engage

in some ten or twelve fights,

there in, fire-lichts during the

AMATES.

time he was wit macarton.

nieve de,

Whon the Dutiota.

Goveriment fell in January 1959 ,the corum vate duch ee ver

figntan pas in santa tre da Guia, and

he went to daware with

Miro. Ferdones and a group of fellows close to Hire:

When he

cot there he was astiened to the investigator departmentie?

at that time was headed by 11do Veraz Serafim, and Mis

particular job in this investigating departnent kas to conduer

Investigations of illegal sanbling, that io, canbling which

was done outalda of the cabares end the rambling houses.

He stayed in that Jou until Novender at 1259 when he was

transferred to the 18th. precinct, a police station. There

ho was the second chief and to stayed there and he yayed

until January

of 1961. At that time he was

transierred to

National Police Headquarters but he did not have any ocifi

assignment he was tire

stand-by officer and to staged-there

without having any specific duties. Me just signed the roster

in the norning and took off, until the end of 1961 at which

time he was tranorarred to a police battalion, ma le

HH 53199

DocId:32349688

Page 5

---

## Page 6

- 3-

renalned with the police batallion until septenter of 1061.

At this time he was transferred to the Castillt a Moro

to study. This was a basic study and did not have thing

do with intelligence work. Ile vos in school there unti

until December of 1961 when he cot holiday leave.. He decided

that he did not want to stay in the Any anyuore banks this

police work was still an assignment

whale he wits

in the army.

lie had already begin to have doubts about continuing to worl

for the Castro government and was thinking in terme or

getting out. When he reigned from the Army, rie

Partie too

not procesed right away, and ho dic not report

and

Are wind

reported for being evay without leave.

Because of Wa's

difficulty, he had sono difficulty settino vork and de wa

out of work until tal gen tenta joe to aire

Ministry of Exterior Connerce, The particular scotion in

which he worked had to do with the importation of well deer

and He remainca there until"ugust of 1963, at No had a

friend naned Saul, Consales mio was an intellitened artice

and through this friend he got a job in Intelligence.

This

particular friend is either the Chief or the 2ndg Chief of

what they call thepilleral section - this is a section whic

specializes in training agents

for assignmento abroad,

particularly in Latin Anerica.

When our friend here began

wOrkIng

in Intelligence he was assigned to the

Salvadoran?

Indexice chit

is the aroa about which he hinself mows most

from his own personal knowledge.

This Intelligence service

for which he worked is called Section

loose lan/maGy

but is property mon as tirecion General Intellizeng e

it ete his principe pee in i sentent.

HH 53199

DocId: 32349688

Page 6

---

## Page 7

-4-

201-

Now this section 1o engaged in let us call thei, ancroasive..

intelligence operations. In other words it is an organication

which exists

for the purpose of collecting intelligence in

other countries.

It is distinct Iron the D.S.d., the Departner"

of State Security, which is a counter Intelligence group Ino

two of them

completely separated bur bothin elligence

organizations and the nows nost about

the forecoup or the

intelligence directorute, of me Munger Mato an vala

Red, Beard, he is the chief.

Rhe otier

headed by"

Aubeneate

"asked some questions

to mion I

already imew the answers and he also mows

the anovers, so

I am not going.

to so over them because they are not so

important as

guot more of less

test questions.

would say now that he does know what he is teller olde

RELENT INTELLIENO

this 1s not all invention.

He recently made a trip

Mexico, say He made the trip to lexico in order to contact

a Conmunist Party group which was coming from aNy

Salvador:

These were people with whon he had contact.

They did not

appear for the meeting; the mecting did not take place.

ile was in Mexico from the l4th. of March until the 23rc.

o1

althortH

March and during

that tire Get his oun operational

meetings did not take plice, he profee laus

Done de intery

Io people fron tre vicaragualone of whom he net in the

Cuban Embassy

in Mexico and the other whom he net in a

private house while in Mexico.

In Mexicople knows who the

intelligenco people are, analone 1e the Cuban Consul Alfreão

1/1A0BnLi

Miravel.

He 1a called the Chief of the Contre, That is his

tItle but he is actually the intelligence chiel,

14.33

5

HH: 53199

DocId: 32349688

Page 7

---

## Page 8

- 5-

Or at least

he was until the loth. of April at which time.

a replacement wes sent to lexico to

take over. and this

fellows name

1o Manuel Voga. le says that the Commercial

Attacao whose nate a tier once ion fa is not sun

an intolligence ordicer and another one is ingello. Li mislo

say that sone of these nmes are familiar to me.) No aloo

mon's that in Italy the intelligence officor is kaberto

Rioro Who las the cover job de lot. sectl

Tar as

communications are concerned he says that they

Have been

using mostly accondiation addresdas aud secret writine.

says this has not been toc successiul, however,

Deconse

the

I-developers dont work so, they set the letter and they

develop it, and they cant road it.

they alen use radio and

they are using @ two-way radio which is quite interesting

Some of this radio is used for, let's say

normal

trensnissions

back and forth, particularly in the case

Venezuela.

Some of the radios which are issued are really only foi

emergency use, beople are not supposed to use them except in

dire emergencies such as an attack on Cuba.

They nornally

are supposed to use Saler.

dow lie said a counte 01.019.

things, of which I did not take note, butere

"of interest to

want to

send

soneone out on an intelligence assignment and

the assignment is one to a latin Anerican country here they

nost people this.

would be taken up by Pintero, valdes

and sinioro Valdos is the Minister of the Interior but lo

has another hat, de is the chief, overall chier of Intelligence

HH 53199

DocId: 32349688

Page 8

---

## Page 9

6 -

Normally this would also be taken up with fidel Castro andy

the orders would be josued and basaports would be given to

Jact to co. out

Now

¡this is where tey are sonine

00100-

one out on a more or less permanent asciganent

under

diplomatic cover. If however they want to

send

someone cut

short 2.D.Y.

they just say give va a passport and such and such & haunc

¿s Ita, issued and no fuss or trill about id. how trie

situation in a little gifforent there a passport or visa io

to be secured for travel to one of the

wbockalist". countaice.

There this has to be laid on through the Gubon Rabins

that country, For example he says that in Crechthere do

a Czech Intelligence Officer in the Mexican Entassy I teen

It the Cuban Embassy.

de is the guy who decides ii the viar

picurious

vill be granted. Hor In order purtly to establish dia ano

from the files

so that he could show that he was not

inventing, and the documents which he brougit out in general,

these that I will go over right now. He brought out some

this

passports, the says,

thede are some falsifica Cuban passports,

that is, they are falsifica in the

in other than a true name

and some legitinate passports

which have been

secured in various latin American countries.

Lictilia

He also brought

out some sedules, which are identity documents,

which were issued for trainees who came to Cuba for trainind.

GUERRILLA

LANTANE

Parenthetically, I might mention one thing on wich I did

no t

make a note which is quite interestinghost of the trainees

Who have pel ba tave one date for marila

training and then will go back and export the zevolution

7

TH 53199

DocId:32349688 Page 9

---

## Page 10

in thoir own countries. but when thege people are in. Cuba

for this type of

para-nililary

"raining he and other, officera

like hin would select those that they thought nost usefui

for intelligence purposes and these would be soparated fron

the group and would be trained for intelligence missions

without the Inowledge

of the others and without the knowledgo

of the Conmunist Party which sponsored the sanding of the

people to Cuba " lie also broncht one one feion ponmart

which is of interest in that this vas exa

cooured through

a contact of the Commnist Party

thotcyootos0f dine: Communicat

Lesty, in In salvador, and To vas sent ti

Colba.

ne sacd in

covering the travel of somebody that trey michi want

in and dia not have documents,

or who wouldhave to travot ia

22I-00e?

a nationality other than his own.

aé has a Salvadoran pass-

port which belonged to a Salvadoran who actually fled to

cuba, the prought one

merating 11le Whic

,he says, he thinks

we out revue because it is quite interestins, showing exactly

how they run a case.

Te said, altoration, he krought out thres

spiratina!

of thesen

cases.

He said fe ulse brought out

a financial

report of the F.L.N. which is a National Liberation Front in

Macaragua. He also brought out photographic copies of

certain docunents which he thinks are of particular interest

becaused they are related to fre intelligence 2ot7y20109

Olya bites seen Micha

o - because they have inter-collations, mischa in ciphering.

and de-ciphering, and fhese inter-collations are he said, 30r

done by desk officers like himself but are done

bi a special

section which is called the central Cipher sootion,

About

agents he said that he himself knows of the following

HH 53199

DocId:32349688

Page 10

---

## Page 11

- 8-

no cuatemalins to cou one of tlese two in lenico very

rent or is to were mad to till war inish.

to cet to cuntanala, dezimova Gne Honduren Enemy

Two Panamanian irentsd Three Salvadorars

no renows pere mally

and tourious two more who are in Salvador but he does not

know the personals.

lennons. throe agenty,

in hend corthe ot

them 1a a cures

MAURICIO

SaLVA;

contact namedpares?

de in done tro or

then are Nicaraguans who are in Mexico,

Kennis the Nienrani /

are now in prison in Santa Domingogend lemono lone Fron

Haiti who is now in cuta. dor, aid not iot tre novenan

but fron what I have told you I think you con see tie?

"pretty much what the situation is.

9

TH 53199 DocId:32349688 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Aril 242. 196

My INTERVIEN

Vladimir Rodriguez

LAlIARA

D.973-17-34

PRICEDURE

What I an doing here is coing over these trings and trying

to: sort them out in different envelopes so ve cun get back!

to ther whenever ve nood them botone. they are atuck: cray. my

the file. 1s I an doind it, I an sortino the out to

people who are Staft Officers as distinct tron people Vio

are Agents working outside undor the direstaon sa che rule

41

DETAILS IN SEREN

fficers. Of the staut ilicers covered de las ve live en

IbrahinviLA

whose name 1s Ivrgete-vedzen Phan tan 1a located in huge,

Czechoslovakia in the Cuban Inbassy and our friend here,

Rodriguez

was sivon a lotter of introduction to him by

another Headquarters Staff Offices.

the Staff Officer at

-Headquarters who prepared the letter is better mown under

the pseudonym Agusto, "He is also referred to as Chair, wilch

might or right not be his true name vut he is often referred

to Dy thet sate in the tristry of worden indone att

nan is a Deputy

to the Head of the Service, in other worde,

he is number

two men in the sorvice and he replaces the

Diñereo

Head of the Service numed Piniero wien Finioro is on trips.

1 Third Staffer won we have covored up to the present timo

JULIO

DAMASO VAIQUEZ

Hulao Doneeso Vasoon, Vascas in tho dust name and i woes

the Internal psoudonym Sergio and I will toll you a little

bit more about him later in connection with one of tho

10

HH 53199

DocId: 32349688

Page 12

---

## Page 13

Anr11 211 2261:

2 m

agents |/ saw ple agents who we have covered, we huve covere

incidentally to those people who came to Cuba from ouhor

countries for guerilla training. Of these people cone are

soloctod to be arents bud le ere just taling then as we get

then to koep thince in order Athervice ve would be hooning

uruerd sino cnuusnaanero.) Ds tleso who cuas for trotnind

I havo made a liot of nando.

I won't go over 211; tho Nares-

becauso they would not ncan too nuch at this stoco, creept

that lit I havo done here has been te note to mine, te

nationality whother or not he does know than personally.

The ones who not only esceived merilla trating but Who

nro agente are the ones, of course, we are mout interosted in,

and they are first of all a non mose Jast nono da 2034.

This man 1s a Honduran Citisen and probably is An Cootn

Rica at the present time. It is the opinion of Vadioaz

C: 5.45

Rodriguez hore that sosa was deported fron londures,

and troy

rofor to his case as the international Case

because every

body in the femily seens to have different Citirenship.

lie travelled with his family, ind the Grandnother had onc

Citizenship and the clila had another and so on, andeo It

was pretty well neased up as far as"ha

that is concerned.

This fellow Sosh us civen training as an Agent, and His

training covered the une of rodio, the use of codesyeciphors

and the usa of secret vriting ana fo was siven an

acconocation addraos. you this mun, as i nandioned herers,

had a case officer and I listod the caso officor or. the

staffer up above.

I will give you the rest of the data on

the staffer now.

HH 53199

DocId:32349688

Page 13

---

## Page 14

Loral 20m 10

- 3 - 21

Just pant ensour

Pino statiors namo as iuldo Bennaco Vacas water bie

paoudonyn Sergio, and Vladimir has lown hin for some yenra.

He desoribes him as being about 5' 5", husky,

Some t2a09

called the Hawain because he 1s a licht : Joured nojasso,

In addition to the training of ang. Agent, the case Offlec

himself has roceived sinilar training, that 10, trudnine in

secret writing, codeo, deciphere and radio.

training In parachute school,-the dane Oricon.

The Caco

but he 1s stil1 in Cubai

of particular intoront bocause the men de traded to

mani door!

agent is on a follow nome Road ta0 Delten So s

Salvadoron citizen and : • fantly seens do be micet to too

because hio father, no moccosed, was a Unitod atabes Citina

and three of hip brothore are United States bilauero the ni

then is said to have fought on Olcinave.

Te also hao a maca

MARGARITA

naned Hargwrite who is a Hexican Citizen end who now 1e

studying in Cuba. Our friend hero ronenbera this case very

well because ho linself was the Cece Officer for Dalton and

he gave Dalton six hundred dollars to buy a radio receivor.

aud Dalton, instead of buying thie radio recoiver, took a

Ilttle trip for hinself, end lived nich,and spent the money

so he has never come on the eir lowever he vas civen

frequencies which ho should use for radio tranenicolon, m

was supposca to

send on the second lionday of oach Month.

The fronuencies on which he wes sunposed

to commundoate

were filned and then the bits of film were rolled up and

•put 1r a false heal allis alidge as a concoutment device.

HH 53199

"DocId: 32349688 Page 14

---

## Page 15

1021) 24 2961

Now-ho accompdation adress fon

DALTON!

Ramal

nicerea

Magnollow do Retere

sauvedo blanco, and the address

DelgaDillo

13 DoZ Caustado 122,

Colonia Santa Tonat

D.F

Lone 17, ilexico, Entertitutict.

enveloponend There in an envelope in the tile which helle

brought with hin for thio caso, shows a return nadress, me

Mr. Rodriguos here coys that the return addrese an ao caou

mates, any difference because they cling dat dientone

at all so that it

cant bo traced back. Doc dido To aboat as

far as we hare gotten.

Obvioualy ny intoredt de onbor 1its

thas, live onces, to conciderable secaude were mict les

noosibility of doing sonothing aboul those to are still

in Place, so When I truste no here odest a dory. to moe.

• to do a little work to try to got those tonge bocuslit to

the attention of the proper people.

Our difficulty in

"12Ý

procoeding, of courso, is

these thingo are so mixed up, tint

In I try to Just pull outitne"

live ones ve are going to have

quite

a bit of concusion. I think the best thang is to

sort then once and

for all as i let through it ano then i

will always be able to set back to the proper thing,

explore

in a little more depth.

HN 53199 DocId:32349688

Page 15

---

## Page 16

DENGEV TEH

Vladinir Rodrigues

LADORA

D 973-17-34

Usually I think ve wont over this yesterday)ven thore so

som body. in Cuba wieter for gent taining as on Intelligenac

Agent or wether hp as in cuba for training as i cueralle

righter, he vould oe diven on leuving Cuba two pascorta bee

of which would be & Cuban passport intended to set. hin only

as far dd Prague and the other of which he would use for

his travel trod Prague back to do our countay.

Ho Has

cavon me those tape peers time dot sto ti

natter of how it woo he had then and fue octanation is

that these:

three people did leave Caba uning their own

lesitimate passports, and the reason they used their

• legitinate passports in the three cases was sioly that Wate

was not tine for the Intelligence serioe none to den

these three pasaports, wild ve have in hand, ready made the

proper caches. when they. Issue a passport to cover a nans

1IaVe2, they will stanp in the back paces of the mesoport

cache such as arlie Airport, trance with the dates tt

would correspond with a period during which be actually yes

Cochicate

In Cuba. Thay seloct the countries, the

esches wrict: they

WIll uso for this wrone in accordance with whether & ron

of that

¿ationality vouza or mosla sot luva do lavo a visa

for

the

country..

HH 53199

DocId: 32349688

Page 16

---

## Page 17

April 25, 1261

- 2.

For example, most latin inericans could so to trance without

any visa so, then

France is a cooù country for tlion to use

as then they do not have to duplicate or forge & Arench visa.

111 they nave to do is to put in the

cadc for arrival in

Ollo drort. They pick a numbor of countrica like this

cachete n

that do not require visas and they put theoe stanps in tho

back of the passports so the individuatnate

Europe during the time lie was really underone has training:

and In theso particular Instances whore no has cotten those

passports they were-passports intended to be used but not

actually used because there was no time. Something else

which is quite interesting to you as veil as to ne is that

those cuban passports with the fole are wider inve

five stamp disits of this tyro, dinese are all alsifiedin thil

Lenanes, faldified, all fulse. The five figure number stanned

Ilke this, he saya, are all false. In other vorcs the

Intelligence Sorvice there uses this type of stann, allays i.

just five digits

sand they nows then tha prowls winch

25 1 ono of their

own passports. nother thing which is Intoresting, that

we have clarificd here today, is that the nome which is

used in the passport is a false name

used simply to cover

a man's trip. It is not a matter of pernanent record so if

pe were to so back to cuba ho would not use that name accin.

" We talked

about tlie type of pseudonyn which 1s ansiencd to:

the person for instance during the tine that

he is under-

This id

going his training in Cuba, sonething completely differente

That is his permanent pseudonym.

15

HW 53199 DooId: 32349688 Page 17

---

## Page 18

April 25. 1264

- 3-

If tho individual should rotur to Cuba at a later dato le

would use precisely the sume one he had before.

This vas

a ¿attor, Vladinir tello us of ande discreston, secause, e

When foy started out, they sónotines nad assigned a

different

pseudonyn for trainine truboses to fe

& fellow, but son his first

trip

Into Cuba, lets say for querilla warfaro trainins, ho

was siven paeudony, John sipe ina then he nade tate second.

trip and they had given him another pseudonyn.

This posed

some complications because

, when this happened

they would

therefrie

have two separato files on the sane individual, andage they

had a meeting and they decided that

, In the future,

they

would

CASES

always keep the same training psoudonyn." of the ones we

have covered today, there is only one of particular interest.

the rest are trainces and we will cet all of tlece togother

at one tine. The one of particular interest is tho

have seen

that I 032t

In spanish country, Colicio DRiNRINTO Consales loreno.

This man is an Intelligence Agent, He is a Nicaraguan by

nationality. he presently is back in

Scaresua

ant he uses

Munition addreso of ISABEL

Rodriguez;

(ytops-here.)

Altos

Colerica Narareite

sodonia-tarvertai, Mexico

o Dolo, so that

, in this

particular case

,Itharinto would always write

to this

accomodation addresa and then that letter would belfailca

to cuban Intelligenco: How this is the only such

case that

VACCINTEN

we have covered to day. lane the other thing se of sore:

interest is that everytime there is a request such

as that

(shittined a Doctor for

which was in this envelope, addreased to

International Control, on the stutionery of the Institute of

16

HH

53199

DooId: 32349688

Page 18

---

## Page 19

MoriT 25, 2961

10 F

SECHI

Certs del Annisse

Tubano and tho under-sido the most prevalice which tiey

call Into from the intial lotters, it indicatos

that there

1s an intelligence interest in the guy. jornally,

its a

Cuban without any connection with the Intellicence wonting

to get a vaccination for travelaide would have to so to

the polide station and he would det oct

on police stationary,

in well!?

But when set is arranged by IkA? this is arranged, by

Intelligence, andadt is a request fron un

saying that the

30 15 79

bearor wio is so and so should got a vaccinutton tavelles.

indigativo of sone intelligence comaction, their a ,

POINT DE LETTREST!

request for vaccination on bit stationary. OThere are i

couple of t

a tings that are interesting ire

brought with himan.

a package of cables which had boon sent to the Cuban

Intelligence officer in lexico fron leadquarters, or tru

the

letan Intelligence, to leadquartera. 1 coulo of ten do

interesting because they deel with the re-activation oi i

Lated or an accordiation address, at con

concomas

ali, dini

precisely the Ledidrav which is uoed by this icllow Micio

Dtharinto, the

same follow that I mentionca before.

In?

commenting on this tiis is very interosting)

Vladimir

tells no that the signature on leadquarters' cables, rablo,

Which is the nane for Paul in Spanish really does not noon

anything except that it comes fron

Intel loadquarters. It is

not the pseudonym of a person, however the other none on the

cable, pulalio, 1e the paendoryn used for the Intelligence

Chief in Mexico who

¡tredo itrivelle, andiwho now will be lanuel dodo recontiy

arrived.

17

HH 53199

DocId: 32349688

Page 19

---

## Page 20

10r17 251 20014

Ge cell

-5-

Máy Vasa no thinka,will probably uao a different pacuamsa

Iot siming his cables end tha ablos vill do sacrosed li

NuElven a pseudonym. "He

says that vega used to use the

aeudonya of marcoe bit de celioes tait rath his own

departure fron Cuban Intelligence

, dilat te will probably

change it now.

this dotter online else hore wite ta uf interest 15

se brought from tie ini

11le, dated 15th. of March,

1263 and it do addressed to Pinforo as Drua)beçauce To as

liệnt

for hin and this cone from one of the

sections in the Intolligence organication. It has the typed

name lorenzo which is probably the pseudonyn for thet

section chief, and fon the other side it lop the none at the

desk officer for Salvadorar befairs, in pseudena, wo receive

Keepini

it here because this was the very job that no lind, and kant

is interesting about this is that it

Another cleur

He sales id degre

indication of ex ort of the revolution, do davis

thin aster d

talking with the Salvadorans about the econonic necessities

which they have

to strt anio insurroction in

their

country, 're have estinated that our part of the add ahoula

twenty-five thousund dollars approxinately.

and Con this hilt

writton in red ink in the hand writing of Finhero himseli,

are some questions, and he says "See what plans they have"

"Where do t'ey trink they will buy the aras" - "what prico"

"See the connection of Mexico with

then and see how the

Intelligence Chief, It

1s possibleland coula stay on as

Consul, although Vega who went us his replacement as

Intelligence Chief, would de in place, joctuse Vog

appirently

is senior in the Service and Vega had previously had the

18

SECRET

EDITIONS

#H 53199. DocTet: 37719688P Faye ROC

---

## Page 21

- 6-

Later.

30b 01 Intel, chlof of loxico, Ao, he went bacts to lavana and

now he will return to his old job.

19

201-0749651

so...

LE TIMAT

IN 53199 DocId:32349688 Page 21

---

