# docid-32291247

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10207-10023

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-29-623

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/21/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING, ACT

• DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

• DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32291247

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-32 (Rg: 12-13-56)

Transmit the föllowing in

Via

Date: 1/21/63

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (92-515) (P)

O CRIMINAL: INTELLIGENCE PROCRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

on 1/15/63, MM 360-C advised that JOSEPH

INDELICATO (Miami File 92-404) recently approached MURRAY

GOLDBERG, well known Miami bail bondsman, in an effort

to put SAM SCHNEIDER, who is now in the cigarette

vending machine business with INDELICATO, in with HAROLD

SOLOMON in the bail bond business. GOLDBERG allegedly

turned down INDELICATO's proposition.

PCI, on 1/9/63, advised

that she was told ANTHONY SUTERA, a relative of FRANK

DIOGUARDI (Miami File 92-405), and a bartender at the

Caboret Club, 223 - 23rd St., Miami Beach, a "strip joint"

and JAN HUNTER, a "B" girl,

were recently sentenced to 10

days in jail and fined $500.00 each for permitting "в"

girls to solicit drinks in the club, but both appealed

the sentence and were released on $1, 200.00 bonds.

She

also understood they had been arrested in Dec., 1962, and

SUTERA had retained the services of BEN COHEN,

a well known

Miami Beach criminal attorney.

Bureau

2 - Miami

RFF : cmw

IC 65) WicK

(AM)

REC- 40

60221-29-623

¡.'.

63

OTHER 4

Approve

62 JAN 28

SPecial Agent in Charge

"NW 45760 DocId: 32291247 Page 2

Sent

Per

---

## Page 3

MM-92-515

REVIEWED BY

FBUJFK

TASK FORI

ON

9/9197 cal

RELEASE IN FULL

She also advised she heard BERNIE STEIN, a close

Friend of DIOGUARDI, who hangs around ANGELO's Restaurant,

which is owned by FRANK DIOGUARDI, is bookmaking along motel

strip in Dade County.

HENRY BEARDSLEY, in charge of security at the

Tropical Park Race Track, Coral Gables, Fla., advised

HARRY BROOKS (Miami File 92-657) was observed in the Club

House of that track on 1/3/63, and was betting between

$400.00 and $500.00 on a race. He also stated that BROOKS

was told not to

return to the track in the future.

He also advised that EDWARD MC GRATH (Miami File

92-82) is seen almost daily at the track betting on the horses.

In addition, he mentioned that JOE SILESI (Miami

File 162-84) has been

observed on numerous occasions at

the track.

Lt. RICHARD PLAGLER, Dade County Sheriff's

Office, Miami, on 1/15/63, advised he and one of his men

checked on the acivity in

the card room and cabana area of

the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach, on 1/9/63, and never

observed any illegal activity going on and in fact, never

even observed MAX EDER (Miami File 92-467) in

or around the

card room.

MM 609-C and

PCI respectively advised

that there is no illegal wire service information coming

from Miami race tracks to date and that the bookmakers are

receiving results fromradio braodcasts when they are

broadcasted legally.

JACK MAY, Agent, Federal Communication Commission,

ahi, on 1/18/63, advised his unit has been checking Tropical

andglialeah Race Tracks with their specialized equipment

End to date no eledronic equipment has been located in the

tracks which would be used to transmit race results.

1-1-

ELUM ADDIE CAUDELL and RALPH GEORGE SHEA (Miami File

I65-6) on 1/17/63, denied being presently engaged in any

illegal dissemination of race results.

-2-

"NW 45760 DocId: 32291247

Page 3

OTHER

---

