# docid-32325841

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90038-10030

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-4930-27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/23/1963

38

JAMES HENRY DOLAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

NW 45771 DocId: 32325841 Page 1

22

---

## Page 2

DL 92-292

Overlapping investigative period of this report

and referenced Dallas report is due to receipt of results

of investigation by auxiliary office subsequent to submission

of re Dallas report.

Extensive period of this report has been noted by

the Dallas Office, however this matter has received continuous

investiative attention, both at Dallas and by auxiliary

offices, and has been kept in current status through referenced

interoffice communications.

INFORMANT COVERAGE

Presently being utilized by Dallas Office are

the following informants who are believed to be in a

position to furnish information re subject's activities and

associates:

DL 91-C

DL 129-C

DL 170-C

DL 146-C

D 185-C-TE

PCIL

Confidential source R. A, BURROW, Chief SA, South-

western Bell Telephone Co., Dallas, Texas.

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

The followig informants have all furnished reliable

information in the past and careful consideration has been

given to each source concealed.

T-symbols utilized in

this report only in those instances where identities of

sources must be concealed.

To] is NO 1190-C.

T-2 is NO 1207-C.

T-3 is PHILIP BEHREN, Claims Maiger, Southern

Bell Telephone and Telegraph Co., New Orleans, La., who has

requested his identity be kept confidential.

cia-

T-4 is Lt. JACK REVILL, Intelligence Section,

Dallas PD, who has requested identity be kept confidential in

connection with-particular information.

T-5 is San Antonio PCI

• E*.

COVER PAGE

NW 45771 DocId: 32325841 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

