# docid-32326723

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90056-10030

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

183-737-14

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SF

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/24/1976

2

SALVATORE AMARENA

SAMMY PAXTON

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32326723

Page 1

25

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassinat on Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36

(Rev. 5-22-64)

4, 1.

"'""

FBI.

Date:

8/24/76

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

Toll

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (183-114) (P)

SUBJECT:

SALVATORE AMARENA, aka;

ET AL

RICO

00: San Francisco

Re San Francisco nitel to Bureau dated 8/10/76.

On 8/13/76, SF 8677-PC advised that JIMMY

FRATIANNO was coming to her apartment that evening.

FRATIANNO came to PC's apartment on the

evening of 8/13/76 and the following information was obtained.

PC asked FRATIANNO if anyone was going to try

and get rid of him, apparently in reference to JOHN ROSELLI

recently murdered organized crime figure in Florida.

FRATIANNO advised the PC that he had been called by San

Francisco newspaper in regards to the ROSELLI murder and

that he had refused to talk to the newspaper man. PC later

related that FRATIANNO said

the call came from a

San

Francisco newpaper and that it was in regards to JOHN ROSELLI.

FRATIANNO told PC that he has known this guy

(PC later verified that the

"guy" FRATIANNO referred to

is JOHN ROSELLI) for 20 years and that he had met for dinner

with ROSELLI in the Los Angeles area on several occasions.

FRATIANNO advised PC he knew nothing about the murder of

this guy and was very upset that his name had appeared in a

ws paper article regarding the murder of this guy.

Bureau (RM)

San Francisco

(1 - 137-8416) 5l

REC 1a 183: 157-14

TFJ/sih

Y. (5)

5 AUG 8T W

Approved

Sent

8Sf97fal Agent in Charge

Per —

us Governmen prating @re 72-45667

DocId: 32326723

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

«'

SF 183-114

TFJ/sih

PC expressed concern that FRATIANNO would be hurt and

FRATIANNO told PC not to worry that he does not talk to

anyone.

FRATIANNO placed a telephone call to someone

apparently in Hayward, California.

FRATIANNO advised other

party that he has the

"package" in his car. He told the other

party

party that he had been blasted in the Los Angeles paper and

the New York Times. FRATIANNO told the other party that someone

will make an offer in another week.

FRATIANNO said that he talked

to someone in New York today and had heard about the New York

Times article. FRATIANNO told the other party that they will

pay.

He reminded the other party he has the "thing" in his

car.

PC inquired with FRATIANNO about the above telephone

call and FRATIANNO told PC that the IRS wants him.

On 8/14/76, PC advised that FRATIANNO, when he

came to her apartment

the previous evening, had cut out a

newspaper article from a San Francisco newspaper concerning

the murder of organized crime figure JOHN ROSELLI and FRATIANNO

was extremely upset because his name had been mentioned

in the newspaper article concerning several meetings he had

with JOHN ROSELLI in June, 1976 in the Los Angeles area.

PC advised that JIMMY told her that he had nothing to do with

the ROSELLI murder and did not know who did.

PC also advised that FRATIANNO told her that he thinks

the IRS is going to sue him. PC advised he stated no reason

for this or did not explain any further.

San Francisco will continue monitor the activities

of JIMMY FRATIANNO and his criminal

associates.

DocId: 32326723

Page 3

---

