# docid-32397242

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10431-10050

RECORD

SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53320 Date:

06-24-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

: LIST: TABLE OF CONTENTS: ELEVEN (11) DOCUMENTS DATED

1960-1964/COPIES OF DOCUMENTS ARE ATTACHED

DATE : 07/23/1964

PAGES : 42

SUBJECTS : QUWIN

ZRRIFLE

JEK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

: 06/25/04

: JFK-RH18 : F4: 20040330-1069655

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10431-10050

HH 53320

DocId: 32397242

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SEGRET

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1.

OIRT-2173,

for James

13 October 1960; Subject:

Envelope

N. RABNEY (P) •

2. LUXE-0261 (IN 41433), 11 November 1960.

3. Sline tea

4.

etc., regarding

5.

QJWIN.

Memorandum for William K. HARVEY, dated 19

February 1962; Subject:

Authorization of ZR-

RIFLE Agent Activities.

6.

Memorandum for William K. HARVEY,

dated 6

March 1963; Subject:

Extension of Authorization

Of ZRRIFLE Agent Activities.

7. Note attached to above memorandum.

8.

Memorandum for Chief, Foreign Intelligence,

dated 27 June 1963; Subject:

QJWIN.

9. 0LLS-369, 30 September 1963; Subject: Adminis-

trative/Finance - QUWIN.

10.

Nine pages of notes in draft regarding ZRRIFLE

Project.

11.

OLLA-1974, 24 April 1964; Subject: QJWIN Ter-

mination.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0U03305

20960

SEGRET

1

PAGE

COPY NO.

43

of

HH 53320

DocId: 32397242

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DISPATCH SE-*

* KUTUBE

Ril-2-4-T

DANIEL C. BRILLARD

2e 1ala3/r

: PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXIME

NO INDEXINE REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIEO DESA

CAN JUDGE INDEXINE

MICROFILM

BELCHIER ON STATION, LUXEMB

QUWIN TERMINATION

REQUIRED- REFERO

PRODUCTION

TOLD HIN ON ZI APRIL

THAT THE OPERATION IN WHICH HE WAS TO PLAY

A ROLE HAD BEEN SHELVED

AND THORLFORE HIS CONTRACT, WHICH RAN OUT ON 29 FEBRUARY, WAS NOT

RENEWED

HE WAS REASSURED THAT THIS AGTION DID NOT RESULT

ANYTHING HEAD DONE AND HIS PAST COOPERATTON WAS APPRECIATEO.

1E WAS MENTIONED AS CONCEIVABLE THAT THE OPERATION MIGHT HAVE SEEN

OFTANO RUNNING IFSHE HAD BEEN ABLE TO ESTABLISH HIS COVER LAST

YEAR. QUWIN ACCEPTED THE REASON FOR TERMINATION AND SAID HE WOULD

ALWAYS BE AVAILABLE IF HE COULD BE OF ANY ASSISTANGE.

IN DISCUSSING

HIS FUTURE,

ROZENEY SUGGESTED, NOW THAT HE HAS RECEiVEO ALL THE

NECESSARY AUTHORIZATIONS FOR DOING BUSINESS IN GERVASWI

CONSIDER

HE SERICUSLY

GOING AHEAD WITH THE VENTURE IN COLOGNE.

WOULD DISCUSS THIS WITH HIS WIFE.

HIS ONLY HESITATION IS IN COMMIT-

TINGAHIMSELF TO A LONG LEASE ON A SHOP•

2E SINCE JANUARY 1962 (SEE PARAGRAPH 6, OLLA- 1426 OF 15 DE-

CEMBER 1961) QUWIN'S GNLY ASSIGNMENT HAS BEEN

TC

ESTABLiSH COVER.

THIS PEQUIREMENT WAS CONFIRMED BY DIR-/2541 OF 23 MAY 1962 AND

DURING ROZENEY'S DISCUSSIONS IN HEADQUÄRTERS IN JULY 1902.

27

MONTHS AND SOME S18,000 LATER, HE IS STILL NOT IN PLAGEASHETHER HE

ROZENEY MADE AN USSUE OF THIS WITH HIM IN AUGUST 1953.

EVER REALLY INTENDED TO COMMIT HIMSELF TO THIS ASSIGNWENT REMAINS

A QUESTION. ROZENEY HAS STRONG DOUBTS.

QWIN'S PERSONAL HISTORY

*REFLECTS MAJOR INSTABILITY AND THE HABIT OF HEDGING HIS BETS iS

UNDOUBTEDLY PART OF HIS CHARACTER:

THIS DOES NOT IMPLY A SECURITY

BREACH - THERE S NOIHING TO INDICATE THAT HE HAS DISCUSSEO HIS

KUBARK /RELATIONSHIP WITH ANYONE EXCEPT, PERHAPS, MIS

WIFE.

RADNEY IS KNOWN TO QUWIN BY TRUE NAME.

ROZENEY USED THE

ROZENEY'S TRUE NAME.

BARPIERRE WITH HIM, BUT IT IS ASSUMED THAT HE HAS IDENTiFIED

QUWIN KNOWS THE TELEPHONE NUMBER OF THE

OCTOBER OUTSHE PHONE RERROBUSTION

NG. DISMANTELED II

FORWARDED UNDER

SEPARATE COVER:

ATTACHMENT

KUTUBE - 2 W/ATT U/S/C

NE. 2 w/ATT. 0/s/c

FICES - +2

DISPATON SYMBOL AND NUMBER

COLLATTOTA

CASSIFICATION

MONROE D.!

DATE

24 APRIL 1904

MOS FILE NUMBER

0003306

2

of.

PAGE

COPY NO.

43

HH 53320

•DogEd: 32397242 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Profict ZRRiFLE

REPRODUCTION

Profect ZRRIFLE is

to spot, levelop,

get acets for Dimisine. D

posit operations. Agents will be spotted in averal areas;

miching the tited Hites, but it pand for operational

reunity recrous will probably not be wed in this;

countries of revidence: Precent desipmental astuct, is

being conducted in the WE and EE areas, but it

is muticipated that this will he extended to atter biicione

The profect will he operated againct third-country.

vitalistions and perconne.

reguinemente levied on the Clanketice terras, prime, by

the Nationel territo, agency: fince there requirements are

subject to frequent revicion, no listing of tinsets would

he valid for the curation of the propest. specific

operations will he mounted on the basis of need and

appertunity. The profect will be conducted by Suicion

D withe assistauce from area diicsions aid atstione as

a Bator REPRODUCTION

needed.

UUU3307

PROHIBITED

3. Raceground: Du reaponce to the cressing requirements

for the operetious procurement of forcion code and ciple.

misterials, Divicion D in 1960 began the spotting of

agent aneto as a

developmental actity. Dising the same

SET

PAGE

COPY NO.

3 08

43

HH 53320 DocId:32397242 Page 4

---

## Page 5

perial reguiremento from NSA becaue mare reficel audin

many respecto russe reusitice. Because most statiano ane

not equipped to conduct this type of operation and berruse.

of the disialility of complete, centralizel control over this

entine effort, it was determied that Dision D, which is

an closest touch with NSA on procurement requirements, could

hest conduct the actinty. The finet spotting; artile,

was now advanced for enough to justify

the orA esterog. REPRODUGTION

PRONIBITED

4 Operational arce

RIWiN is under writter

contract as a prescipel ageut, with the primary tade of

spitting asent candidates. Of fuin wise finet contacted in

1958 through the Chief of the Luxeneloung I. V. hep

the dief of Station, Luxembourg, in concuction with

an illegal ravestics operation into the United Atates. Tor

a perish of a year and a half be was contacted i t

sporadically by COS, Jukerchoing, in beholf of the

Bureau of Moreoties. Hile of this Bureas reflect

October

an usellent performance leg AGain, Du teptiao 1960,

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0J03308

SECRET-

PAGE

COPI NO

4

43

of

HH

533206 DocId: 32397242 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Aqui am REPRIDUCTION

7,200

Trael+ of PROHIBITED

RAwi + other agento 4 agent candidates: 2, 000

Nees for renuices by and

standles of agents and

agent candidates!

2,000

Travel of staff employees o

engaged in Zorifle actini:

2,500

Hire of rafehouses, automobiles.

and other spectiond expense:

1, 000

1 1 4.,700

Pay for apects on complition of jobs?

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

G03305

SEGRET

PAGE

COPY NO

-5 01 43

HH 53320: DocId:32397242. Page 6.

---

## Page 7

helite,.

2) Our mum aspirene Baughs) (telest anDS) and experience

/KGB (Group, Bankera grasp, Holler) → require most.

professie, prove spenticielle, competent, vittler, tible,:

cE eyesienced spe officere (feur sailable), able to amust patie

DUCTION

herow?; no approach, to otto bant apercies.

b. Within Rubah, one focal font for control,

arch, tracig, care officing, eto - DO Pathet,

in this focal part mandator;. Di officiall, oliviel?

c. Max. securit, cable commo for inocuse

caller auly; no restrictions on travel; porciliate,

of ine-man overcess (Europe) antrol bace withe

owner (mon Stating comics traid of sisuth t

no balfulies pe tortio

except forberich

d. No PAs, or sitemediaries; rigid cace-oppierig

from stant to finish.

gout - REPRODUCTION

idla a foreign

g. Use of alreal, tectif cucts (eig,

Markel in the search.

SEGRET

6

PAGE

COPY NO.

00UJ310

43

of

NY 53320. DocId: 32397242

Page "7

---

## Page 8

pass as foreiguere.

4. Clackmail:

realy to go, if stallo

a- No Guerican estigers or resisento or

person to

1. Exclade arpanset, titals, those

norecant of emerts, thase up metabilit, of purpore

as eximinals.

e. Haffers midlued actictisi.

5. Guer: planng chisel rictude provision for

Alloming tou or Gecks in care of blow.

8. The nobod, ants has never dect feverials, othinis.

will best be aware of pitfells or cousider factors such

as freehow to travel, wanted liste, eto

→ 4. Hould haue play 201 in A) to bachatop this, ell

documents the in forged t backdated, should Lookille

a CE file:

10. Perill ce / REPRODUCTION

It silverthorue.

PROHIBITED

Keeping of file,

SESRET

0005511

Lof:

43

PAGE

COPY NO

HH 53320

DocId:32397212: Page 8

---

## Page 9

Freed a to trand

Feel, pertioned tethics marchiprue. Those are.

) Miasme securit, I within Rubart only (eg, how much

does tireques now buss?).

fruitition on number esti

derhe for enciple

brise of Launde olifectine.

3) Ime focal pout for search, coutoch, tracing, cace-officer + PA.

selection. Complete

Dop authority in this face poust ricindary.

Overreas one-man

contral bese with own frontation conuses.

3) Every operation to he nig

co-officered; no sille-shunt.

PÁ'r.

REPRODUCTION

Non attrilitalitite:

PROHIBIT

varieta

for direct actione;

pocally for approad to foreign elemente..

No criminiel

who tainted bey nise.

austte liverican agency. Use of

→ cace officine neto ca

a pace or foreigners and bruted

official meesence

5) To chain of

surecte

a permitting bladeneel.

6) Don't meet any celectee in horue territory.

7) Gich Leusion ul foreign Afficisle with all portliht,.

if need though REPROC TON

ben earned.

PROHIBATED

1) Plammig chsuld include persise for blewing

tuito (or Geche) in case of blour?

in 4 abrue encertial.

9) Exclude orpnization emmiels, there with recond of

imento, thare who hau erased me ceceral tipe of creine.

6003312

SECRET

PAGE

COPY NO.

43

HH 53320

DocId: 32397242 Page 9

---

## Page 10

C.: ?.

10) Corsicaus piecs

medd, ticlion

could slead its

Mafia.

11) Jorear recictauce percoung

offer prcibilitio, (acs

arcluves,

13) Period of teste

oillauce, eto= for each

selecter.

13) Hep uhesth perein.

I DIRODI T DNLeCE

expererice.

14) Silvsthonie A stablz me Pa

PROMBITED

i5) Wheat ard limits an

tean or nidividuats ssla

seleited? Mo "tean" uitel reads, to go.

16) Ha Dpempe of standligs,

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

0003313

PAGE

COPY NO

43

H7H

53320

DocId:32397242 Page 10

---

## Page 11

sid

1 - 25% -

Ever Cation.

">he magic lutton"

Panca

ties füro D4C

"for

PIs 201 cone

hostai

/ Contractesteurt

TSO talle

apply brakes

PROMIBITED

Last

sort beyond lost resads

a confestion up colnes.

El Benefoctor → accumphous

Franewach → Sids Jal.

Ledfara

'"Iran

uslakivg..

machines" - ILE

sounds pages.

pherous - (rumbli cs)

Com

wit. Fear

Avatteria -

26/1.

REPRODUCTION

AS - FanforPROMITED

no pil Permane.

jess never maritar

1o Select proper ofer to run -

ai Plae a comer

Max a 2

3. Secunt, RulerSECRET

7 tude leves

sid - Resein.

PAGE

10

of

•COPY. NO

..43

0003314

NW 53320 DocId: 32397242 Page 11

---

## Page 12

tectel 1500- from nB

mach stat i

Distasel

Di Pargio 1

must devon lefone

we con spay

1 case officesine

coner pete- create 1ps625

RIS er aldiRi - honser

dre belare -

7d J est - Remenher

REPRODUCTION

PROMBITED

SECRET

0003315

:11

PAGE

COPY NO:

43

HH 53320

Doci

Fa: 32397242 Page 12

---

## Page 13

DISPATCH

Chief of Station,

Luxembourg

Chiet of Station, Paris - ATTN: ESHEADSET

Chief, KUrUsE

SUBJECT

Administrative/Finance - QJaIN

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

ACTION

. See below

1-C14

PROCESSING ACTIOR UC

MARXED FOR INDEXINO,

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

OMLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAM JUDGE INDEXINO

MICROFILM

REFERRNCES:

2. OLLA-1738,

10 M3J:1983

D. Paris T/A #3-588, 11jJ0a.53

1. Receipts and documentation transmitted to Headquarters,

reierences, cited above, substantiate the fact that subject agent re-

celved an operational advance in the anount of $100.00 (20, 000Bfrs):

on 19 April 1963. To date, no accounting has been received by this

once to guidate sadd

advance.

It is requested that an accounting and/or certification that

he funds vere expended for the purpose stated, including substanti

ting receipts or other documentation (11 avallable, proper, or neces-

berobtained and transultted to this office as soon as possible.

attachzents,

regarding Only activitios, bo classified

AS LOLON&&

0": Chiel, nuTUB

PROHIBITED

ITTA: Daniel C. Brillard

Transters of Accounts (I/A's) should reflect allotment

number, 4123-1030-5013.

Daniel C. Brillard

Distriaution:

Parts

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

465 - 38

•LASSIFICATIO

REPRO

DUC

PROHUBITED

4 SentenDer 195

OS FILE NUMI

0003316

PAGE

COPY NO.

12

of

43

HH

53320

DocId: 32397242 Page 13

---

## Page 14

27 JUN 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Foreign Intelligence

SUBJECT:

QJWIN

Confirming our conversation of 26 June 1963, I make

the following recommendations concerning the further handling

and

possible disposition of QJWIN:

I believe the original purpose for which

QJWIN was continued and sent to his

present under-

termination of

b.

QUY IN,

PROHATED

competent, usable

agent who is capable of operating in certain circles

in Europe where we have very few assets.

Whether this

is of sufficient worth to continue his services depends

on the determination of how he can be used either by

the German Station

any other KUBARK into m

the Austrian station or by

as a long term unofficial

cover agent.

at the present time.

He is being

paid but he is on ice as far as ady

operational assignments are concerned.

C.

It is recommended that the present Chief of

Station Luxembourg and

RABNEY

be consulted by

Headquarters for their best recommendations as to

the continued use of QJWIN.

After these recommendations

are

received,

I suggest that the German and Austrian

stations be consulted for their possible interest in

using him.

If after these discussions a sensible

framework for the operational use of QJWIN can be

established,

I would recommend we continue him.

If

not,

I would

recommend that he be

terninated at the

time his present contract expires.

2.

As far as the ZRRIFLE aspects of this operation

which have been covered under the QJNIN authorization for

security reasons and with which Fletcher M. KNIGHT is fully

familiar as I orally

advised you on 26 June 1963, except for

one precautionary

"life line"

aspects of this case have

been ted and PRenUe project.

perhaps for minor

PROHIBNED

HARVEY

SEGRET

0U03317

13

PAGE

COPY NO.

43

08

1W 53320,: Doc

97242

Page 14

---

## Page 15

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIF

TION TOP

AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

CENFIDENTIAL

SECKET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

Mr. William K. Harvey

(

NAS 063

6

ACTION,

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

arks:

Mr. Harvey:

Sam Hines gave me the attached approval

Since we retain no files on

the project, I am sending this to you with

the suggestion that this be incorporated in

your project folder.

Helen Vigness

REPRODUCTION

of ZRRIFLE

PROBBITED

uary 1962,

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

ities, you are hereby

cipal

agent QJWIN and

s as may be required.

force through

at time.

him, QJWIN's salary

the expenses of

ctivity will be in

y them, and these

covert operational

this activity,

ategory and by

certi-

blished for QUIN,

,800 through

ecessary, they will

ament of reference

r the previous peris

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

SAS FINANCI

DATE

GE ENCRASSIFIED MS.

FERM MO. 237

Use previous editions

2-61

red in lieu of project

vel, per diem, opera-

CONFIDENTIAL'YES SECRET

REPRODUCTION

ty be handled strictly

LICHARD HELM

Deputy Director (Plans)

0003318

14

PAGE

COPY NO.

43

3 HH

53320

DecId: 32397242-Paye 15

---

## Page 16

6

MAG

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr.. William K. Harvey

SUBJECT:

Extension of Authorization of ZRRIFLE

Agent

REFERENCE:

ORE RUCTION

т 1962,

subject

PROM SITED

For the purpose of ThRIfLE activities, you are hereby

authorized to retain the services of principal agent QUWIN and

such other principal agents and sub-agents as may be required.

This authorization will continue to be in force

through

31 December 1963 subject to renewal at that time.

2.

As established by contract with him, QJWIN's salary

will be $7, 200 per annum.

Accounting for the expenses of

QJWIN and other agents involved in this activity will be in

the form of receipts for lunds received by then, and these

receipts will be retained in the ZRRIFLE covert

operational

Because of the sensitive nature of this activity,

accounting for funds

will be by general category and by

fication.

In addition to the salary established for QJWIN,

you are authorized

the expenditure of $13,800 through

31 December 1963. If further funds are necessary, they will

be provided.

This memorandum approves an amendment of reference

memorandum increasing funds authorized for the previous

from $14,700 to $16,200.

This memorandum is to be considered in lieu of project

and constitutes authorization for all travel, per diem, opera-

tional, and other expenses.

It is requested that this activity be handled strictly

on an EYES ONLY basis.

REPRODUCTION

EVERY

0003319

PAGE 15 02 43

COPY NO.

HH 53320 : DocId:32397242

Page 16

---

## Page 17

19 February 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT:

"REPRODUCTION

Auth

zation of ZRRIFLE Agent Activities

activities, you are here-

and such other principal agents and sub-agents as may be

This authorization will continue to be in force

through 31 December 1962, subject to renewal at that time.

As established by contract with him, QJWIN's salary

will be $7,200 per annum.

Accounting for the expenses of

QJWIN and other agents involved in this activity will be in

the form of receipts for funds received by them, and these

receipts will be retained

in the ZRRIFLE covert

Because of the sensitive nature of this activity,

accounting

for funds will be by general category and by

In addition to the salary established for

QJWIN, you are authorized the expenditure of $7, 500 through

1962. If further funds are necessary, they will

be provided.

This memorandum is to be considered in lieu of pro-

ject and constitutes authorization for all travel, per diem,

operational and other expenses.

It is requested that this activity be handled

strictly on an EYES ONLY basis.

Richard Helms

S REPRODUct Of rector (Plans)

PROR BITED

he with

EVES CUY

UUU3320

PAGE

16 os

COPY NO.

43

HH 53320 DocId:32397242 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SEENET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

3 MARCH 1964

RECEINE 30, OREP RODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

00U3321

PAGE 17

of.

43

F93320- DocId:3239

---

## Page 19

NO 11496

веселями

Name

ame bar

No:

Called

CONNECTED

85

Dale 4/15163

* LONG DIST.

TELEPHONE

Room

8-3225

DISCO

SERVICI

TOT.

19

Fle 1/15/63

N° 11495

ite

LONG DISTANCE

TELEPHONE

10 303

Name

No. Called

14575/75

22

CONNECTED

DISCONNECTED

AMOU

TAX

0.4

SERVICE

TOTAL

44

NG: 11498

over

Name

No.

Caled 1

CONNECTED

Date

LONG

OTSTANCI

Room

3428

VECTEI

Date 4-16-63

LONG DISTANCE

TELEPHONE

Room 23

Na Called (0 6 7=152

CONNECTE

TIME

DISCONNECTEI

351

104.

39

AMOUNT

TÄX

7.60

106

SERVICE

166

0.7

SECRET

ERO RUSTON

Date 4-16-63

11515

LONG DISTANCKUI

TELEPHONE

P9111497

Date

5/63

•LONG DISTANCE

32.2

TELEPHONE

Room

Name barue

No. Called

200213-93-0850

_Room

DISCONNECTED

No. Called 9B8-3418

CONNECTED

TIME

DISCONNECTEI

100

TAX

1/0

BERVICE

TOTAL

AMOUNT

1/0

35

TAX

04

VICH

TOTAL

RS

TOCK FORM 7011

511522

Perrie

: Date S

REPRODUCTION

Room

HOROR BIRT

No. called 237-3428

CONNECTED

DISCONNECTED

7.5

0б

BERVICE

и

TOTAI

88

Date 4/17/ i3

LONG

DISTANCE

TELEPHONE

Room 22.

Ma called 238 - 3479

DISCONNEC

SERVICE

TOTAL

2:2

Ce

Operator

• 11552.

LONG DISTANC

651

07

PRODUCTION

ROHARITED56

No cald 238 - 3425

DISCONNECTEI

Date H(71/63

LONG DISTANCE

TELEPHONE

Name daril

72

SECRET Call 238 - 3478

AMOUNT

835

2/20

139

40

04

се

HH 53320

DocId: 32397242: Page 19

COPY -NO.

2216

4003322

43

---

## Page 20

SEGRET

Erais de voyage

LuX. -Paris

AR

IUX. -Paris

AR

1050.-

1050 0 -

Lux, -Bale

AR

Paris-LUX.

500 . -=

Lux. -Bãle (2)

900, we

Bale-Lux.

450.нo

Bâle-Paris (via letz)

750•

Voya REPRODUCTION

Frais personnel

Frais

Santelli

2 journées

Fraie Pion

Remis Pion

2000.-

500. -

5000e

21400. -

-==

(20,000 adres)

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

0003323

PAGE

19

COPY

NO,

43

of

53320

Ddc Id: 32397242 Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET

Frais de voyage

Lux.-Paris.

Paris-Bâlo

Bala-Lux.

Paris-Lux.

Lux. -Bâle (2)

Bata-Paris

Bala-Lux.

Voyage Henry

550. -

700 , =

450 . co

500. -

400.-

700.-

450.00

1500. -

5.750 4-0

Frais personne

(6 journées

DMPROIICTION

Frais Santell

Hotel Henry

5.750.-

Remis Henry

Ramis Santell

Remis Hugo

9.500.00

=======

5.000.00

50000. -

500. -

10.500.-

ya 500.

Remis portier

250. -

10. 500.-

25.750.-

250 . -

26.000 . 0

120,000 arkines/

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

0003324

20

43

PAGE

COPY

of

N. 53320 DocId 32397212 Page 21

---

## Page 22

REMARQUES

HOTEL

NTER.

NATIONAL

BASEL

STEINENTORSTRASSE 25

TEL. 249800

TELEX 62 370

AVEZ-VOUS DÉPOSÉ

LA CLEF DE

VOTRE CHAMBRE?

HAVE YOU LEFT YOUR

KEY?

HABEN SIE DEN

ZIMMERSCHLUSSEL

ABGEGEBEN?

REMARQUES

HOTEL

NTERT

NATIONAL

BASEL?

STEINENTORSTRASSE 25

TEL 249800

TELEX 62 370

AVEZ-VOUS DÉPOSÉ

LA CLEF DE

VOTRE CHAMBRE?

HAVE YOU LEFT YOUR

KEY?

HABEN SIE DEN

ZIMMERSCHLUSSEL

ABGEGEBEN?

HH 53320

Docid: 32397242- Page 22

DATE

00119-61

00115-61

D2:1÷-501

0:11.9.61

00 fir

SERV

-SECRET

REPRODUCTION

13

14

15

PRORIBITED

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

DATE

DÉTAIL

_M0V15-51

- 10PET

2

NOV15-61

- DTT

-N0У15-61

—TAYE

NOV 15-61

PDFICS

NOV15-61

SERY

# I IS

DÉBIT

55.90

0.30

0.20

2.50

8.60

10

11

12

13

14

REPRODUCTION

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

PROHIBITED

SECRET

22

23

24

Appartament No...

105

Pers..

DEBIT

22.20

0.30

3.30

CRÉDIT

25

.E)

SOLDE

22.20

22.50

25.80

0.00

CRÉDIT

SOLDE

55.90

56.20

58.50

6750

OUU3325

21

of

43.

PAGE

-COPY

NO.

---

## Page 23

20/4

20/4

SECRET

Plane Call Plantation Key,

7la 8 miami

7 la

tunner. for

, 39

20/4

Tauntoo

45,00

Reimbursement $ ZBRifle Me 175.00

for ops hate Roomat

Eden Roc Hatel: Meani

3 clay Morecuple.

Rtrip Ion plane

ticket Miani/ Chrogo

$ 200.00.

21/4.

Terruation parment.

ZR Rifle/mi-henecupt.

intation

Key,

PROHIBITED

1000

• 44

1,625.46

On dean

SEERET

0003326

PAGE

22 0g

-43

COPY NO.

sHH 53320 DocId:32397242 Page 23

---

## Page 24

13/4

15/4.

16/4

17/4

Varcher

SECRET

au chargeahl I ops Ex penses

98 Win/ ZR Rifo -

Phone Call Plautation Key,

7la

ditto

n, 7 là.

.39

,44

PROHIBITED

P. han Cal

Mey

8 Persine, 7la

ditto

etto X Los Angeles

sette 1 Los Angeles

ditto s Miami

Phone Piantation ley

8. Persino, 5la.

.. 94

,39

1.10

1 666

alitto

83

.22

17/4

*

18/4

19/4

18/4.

2(1 inofficial Ameron

avesel) Eden Roc

ho REPREDUCTIORE

4.26.50

for

ops purpases

220

recupt.oraulable-

Islamoroda, 7 la.

ditto abous SEGREF

- Ops fate room-chep

Reaullion Youll Harlan

75.00

75.00

22.66

0003327

23-

PAGE

of

COPY NO.

43

53320 DocId:32397212 Page 24:

---

## Page 25

m.72

- 21

ROOM

PERSON:

BILLS PAYABLE

WHEM PRESENTEN

DATE

4/14

ANOUNT TOR!

11

13,3

ROOMS

3% FLORIDA

SALES TAX

33

10d

33

DINING ROON

BEVERAGES

PHONE

PHONE L.D

VALET

LAUNORY

TELEGRANS

BACCAGE

SOLARIUM

CASH ADVANCES

MISC.

TRANSFER FROM

TOTAL

CASH RECEIPTS

ALLOMANCES

To.

113311133

163

11133 22l 22/66/le Rnp 22-21

BARNETTS, MIAMI, T= 63057

i

FR

TO

TOTAL

SECRET

no REPRODUCTION

xreuses

•39

-144

.94

139

1.10

ele6.

83

•72

426.50

18/4

19/4

ops purpases-

220

recupt.brailable-

Islamacoda, 7 la.

ditto abon..

198/4

SEGREF

- Ops bote room cherp.

Plantation Yacht Harben

plaritation

Reg, 7la

1H 53320

DocId: 32397242: Page 22

75.00

75,00

2.2.66

0003328

PAGE

24

43

- of

_COPY-NO

---

## Page 26

2 July 1962

PROHIDTTED

Received 30, 000Bfrs.

salaryn.(

4 Hay 1952

Received 30, 000Bfrs. April salary.

2 July 1962

Receited the sun of 30,000bfrs. Advance for

July salary.

17 September 1962

Received 30,000

REPREDUCTION

PROHIBITED

Cotober 8 1962

Received 30, 0ü0bfrs for September salary.

..л.

SECRET 2 April 1962

Received 30,000 Bfrs. Salary for March.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

25

COPY

NO.

HH: 53320

DocId: 32

212

Page 26

0003329

08. 43

---

## Page 27

31 October 61

Received 30, REPRODUCION

SEGRET

i 8::

1 March 1962

Received the sun of 30,000 BErs. February salary.

REPRODUCTON

PROHIBITED

Received the sum of

reimbursement for

1 December 1961

Received the sun of 30,0C0BfI, November salary.

j0 OCTUBER 1461

RECEUED THE

REPRO UCTION

iRRATION EXPROHIBITED I

SURET

0003330

26

PAZE

COPY NO.

4.3

of.

MY S33320

DocId: 32397242 Page 27

---

## Page 28

SEGRET

1 August 1961

REPRODUCT ON SY

PROHIBITED

ECEIVED, 30,00058..

Received the sure of 30, 000 bfr.

AWINST 1961 SALARY

28 September 1961

salary for September

31 October 61

ational expenses

PROHIBITED

30 Jume 1961

Received the sun of 30, 000BPS fOT June salary.

31 January

Received 30,000Bfrs; salary for January.

REPRODUCTION

209

5 June 1961

SECRET

000Y

331

27

PAGE

COPY

NO.

43

NH 53320

DocId:32397242

"Page." 28

---

## Page 29

SECRET

Received on 21 Marah 1961, 5000BeIgtan francs

REPRODUCTION her 2960

Reça 25.000 fu

Le 11.11.1960

Repe $ 202 1 REPAICTION

PROMIBITED

6 November 1960

Receired the sur of 15,000 Belgian franes.

SChIET

00U3332

PAGE

COPY NO:

28

- 0-43

1W-

79320 DocId: 323

3212 Page 29

---

## Page 30

SEGRET

Receited the sum of 3500 Belgian francs.

30 October 1960

tub to them

Le 3 nosenelo 1960

REBREOICHION

PROHBITED

trip to far. Piames

CHIE

UUU3333

29

PAGE

corT. NO.

43

HH 53320 DocId: 32

97242 Page 30

---

## Page 31

C

BAROLd HALIZER HitA

REPRODUCTIO

allasag

Attached is a rethar comprehensive

six page biographical

information you

requested but many additioe

ch will facilitate

your avaluation of ais poten

This report was prapared in July 1959.

Following 18

supplemental Intolligence to bring you up to dato.

He owns and operates the Fried Sportwear Company,

843 South Los Angelos Stroet, Los Angelos, California.

• On

August 3, 1959 ha was convicted in Federal Court at Los

Angolas for falluro to rogistor as a previously convioted

narootic lau violator at the time of bis travel abroad.

He was fined $1,000 and placad on three jears probation,

whion 1s still in affoot.

Fifth Anendment. throughout the questioning. Althougk he

was threatenod with contempt proceedings this action nover

materializod.

In the Spring of 1959 ho furnished Information to our

California offloo but bas not since cooperated with us.

Ho

bas the background and talent for tho matter wa dlacussod

but 1t 13: not low uhother ha would ba raceptiva..

attached is a copy of his FBI criminal record

nd an old wanted tot

REPRODUCTION

ood. likenasa of

PROHBITED

Baal (3)

December 19, 1950

SE

1041104

0UU3334

30

43

of

PAGE

COFX-H0.

NWS53220

DocId: 32391242 _ Page 31

---

## Page 32

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE.

Sil

SEGRET

DATE: 11 NOVEMBER 196D

to: DIRECTOR

FROM

/ ACTION:

LUXEMBOURG

-C/FI/D

INFO

S/C 2

ROUTING

TO

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITEL

PRITY DIR

Now II 22 2450

OR FORE SECT.

PRIORI

IN 41433

CITE •

LUXE $261

OPIM LEOP

INFO

RYBAT LAURICLE ZRACORN

REF: LEOP 291 (IN 41261)

1. QUWIN COMPLETES SHOTS 16 NOV. HE WILL ATTEMPT SECURE

21 NOV FLIGHT FOR ARRIVAL BRAZZAVILLE D915 HOURS SAME DAY. CAN

NOT CONFIRM UNTIL NEXT CONTAGT 17 OR 18 NOV..

2. QUWIN RECOMMENDED TWO FRENCH CONTACTS WHO AGREE UNDERTAKE

UNSPECIFIED JOB. ARRANGEMENT MADE FOR DIRECT ACCESS WITHOUT

QUWIN IF ALTMAN INTERESTED. ONE HAS BEEN TRACED HQS WITH NEGATIVE

RESULTS. OTHER BEING TREP RODECTION

MESSAGE

PROMMBITED

WAM. 094160

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

0003335

31

PAGE

COPY NO.

02 43

NW. 53320 DocId: 32397242 Rage 32

---

## Page 33

Source: Howard F. Clarkson

DERREDUSTION

(1) DEFIGRAli, Italim In

MEN, PER PRETED

and spotter for Corsica.s.

abilitr do this. ion cor us,

but once selection made, DEFIGAN to be eliminated. D'PIGRAY believes

KUBARK handling as matter of convenience in behalf of larcotice bureau.

Clarkson to follow up with DEFIEliN on word fron las.

Purpose is

selection of one or two Corsicans as

entry men o be

teamed with

(a Triestino safecracker.

(2) DEBACON, Chief of Detectives Venice: Thorou hly acruainted Trieste

Appearas. have on tap

safecracker, lockpicher type, c? 4

years old, whom he had once mentioned to hoirdon.

Magonetti (p), outsid

man in Trieste, to follow up with DEBACON after briefin by Glarkson am

Purpose 1s selct Triestino for teaming nith Corsicans, split

tinem after joh done.

Possible find Triestino spealins German as well

Fossible German documentation?

(3) Siragusa, isst Deputy Narcotics Comissioner,

as source on Corsicins

Sicilians; query him whether District #2 (NY, NJ, New Enrlam,

has West Indian colored sontacts usable for our purposes.

(4) Clarkson contact:

Vincent Capone, Rome, american Citizen, his

clearance, rood potential PA, experienced with criminals; eduented

England and US:

(5) Kilan offers good possibilities of findine safecrackers and deme

doament -suppliers.

(5) Clarkson contact Florence: Robert CORBISERO, bar own, speaks

Italian,

Englist, has torough knowledre underworl

and Brussels and

working knowlede underworld Frankfurt, Colone, Nice.

(7) Signor Don Arturo Gallardo, Chief of Crimin 1 Investiration

Branch Barcelona: has two expert safecrackers who were introduced to

(8) Mozes MASCHKIV NEL

Knowledreable northern

JEnkaish. Can locate thru CID,

fran, or thru desk clerks at Frankfurter Hof, asking for "Benny" an

using Smith's name as reference with him

(9) For trng purpose: French con ercial film Rififi: can be obtained

t ru Jean Napote, Asst Sechen of Interpol; excellent detail on plannin

and execution of

safecracking joh.

SECHET

0U03337

33

PACE

COPY NO.

of

143

HH.

53320

DocId: 32397242 . Page 33

---

## Page 34

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1.

2.

3.

Department of State telegram no. 1304, dated

4.

5.

dated 20 Febru-

1964;

Subject:

Document:

Available in

OSWALD's 201 File. [FOIA No. 563-810]

Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 6. Marc}

1964; Subject:

Information

In ClA's Posses.

Regarding Lee Harvey OSWALD Prior to

November

22, 1963. [FOIA No. 590-252]

Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 23 July

1964;

Subject:

Lee Harvey

OSWALD.

[XAAZ-17625 - FOIA NO. 775-337]

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0003338

SESHET

34

PAGE

COPY NO.

43

of

NG 53320 DocId/02397242 Page 31

---

## Page 35

M....

SE:

÷ 1580a

ID,:?:316%

rii

MEMORANDUN FOR!

REPRODUCTION.

PROMIBITED

MI. J. joe Rankla

General Counsel

President's Commission on tha

Assassination of President Kennedy

SUBJECI:

Lee farvey Oswald

Wellet 1

do Mr. James 3. Llobeler of your staff phonce ma last.

Friday and seguested that CiA furalah tia Commissian with an

allavit ropecting tha origin and circumstancos of a photograph

of as missowa lodividual whica was furnluhed by this Agency to

the federal Bureau a investigation on Novosaber iz,' 1963.

2. I am forwarding an aíldavit vita tilo memorandusa

which I trust will satialy your necds. Because dí tha extremo

jonnizivity of the source lavolved, I have reirainad from acding

¡urtnor detalls.

3. Cha Contral Intelligonce Agoncy Incommenda tilat

thla pioiograph not bo reproduced in thu Commission'a ropoit,

because it would jeopardisc a most confidential and productiva

connection with iao Harvay Oswald or

Presldest Kennedy.

PROHIBITED

• In view of tho above, a sensitivity indicatar has beo

afílised to this concounication.

at That Dies

Richard Helras

Deputy Director for Plans

Attachment - 1/a

SECRET

N'::

00J3339

35

PAGE

COPY

NO.

of

43

53320

DocId: 32397242 Page, 35

---

## Page 36

Sab

Distalbution:

Orig & l o Adirassce

2 = DDP

•1 - CI/R&A/Oswald 201

C/R&A/Dooley: po

PROHIBITED

0003340

PAGE

36

of

COPY. NO.

43

HY 53320 DoCid: 32397242 Page 36

---

## Page 37

4-1224

XAAZ-22595.

C Mar 6.4

REPRODUCTION

LEMORANDM FOR:

SUBJECT:

Reyarding Lee Harvey OSWALD

Prior to November 22, 1963 as

t. Ivarren

C

¿ grandsi

This refers to your letter of February 12,

196₴

adiressed to the Director of Central Intelligence which bas

been passed to me for reply..

Paragraph three de your letter requested the Agency

to suppy the commission with a report on imormation in the

Agency's possessios regarding Lee Lavey OSWAID prior to

November 22, 1463.

The request was predicated uppy the

footaoke on page ovo d ClA's report to the Coramission dated

31 January 1964, enlitled: /Inorisation Developed by CIA on

the Activity of Lee Harvey OSiVALD in Mexico City, 28 Sep

Lember - 3 October 1963,

3.

There is attached an exact reproduction of the

Agency's heial dossier da Lee Harvey OSWALD beginning

with the opening sheet dated 9 December 1960. The entire

dossier carries the security classification of Secret ad

consists of thirty docunents arranged in chronalogical order.

On the basis of clearances tr on tho federal Bureau si

Investigation, the Department of State, the Department of

Navy, and the Lomigration asd Naturalization Service, who

Natter, we are

erials in the

file up to early Cetober 1963.

Document Number

SOBROCEITED

CE. GOT? GOODENCE

for FOIA Review on

JUN 1976

229

20055

ROG WITS

Trensmittedl

ATT.

20-289248

6 Mai 64

OUU3341

43

PAGE

31

• of

• COPY

NO.

NH 53320

DocId:32097242

Page

---

## Page 38

a. Seven documents received from the Federal

Bureaz a Investigation.

b.

of State.

Ien documents received from the Department

c. Tro documenty receiver

REPRODUCTION

of Navy.

PROHIBITED

apartment

¿ One document la rare chec

raquest) for the

Immigration and Naturalization Service.

€. Four newspaper clippings,

• 1, Five internal CIA notebo

go CIA report dated 31 January 1361 to the Commission

which covers all substantive developmenis affecting CIA

in the master o lee Fiarvey OSIALD ETDIO 9 Outober to

22 November 1963. The report indicated the disseminations

of information developed by GIA that were made to otber

Federal agencies during that period. This item, as was

poisited out at the time, is particularly senditiva and bears

aporopriate sensitivity indicators.

* You will note that almost all of the documents carry

markings required for ClA's internal records processing.

few of the papers contained tise names of our employees os

identifications of specific organizational components. We have

aen the uberty of paper

annie ta as they do not beai

on the substance dAL NUDEL Than

PROHIBITED

Richard Fielras

Deputy Director for Plans

Aitachmest

Original & 2 - Addressee

1C/0ISK

1 ~ DDP Subject

T. C/CI/R&

1 ~ DDP Chrona

1 = C/CI

9 СОРУ 1 - 201-2892

1+ 201-289248

CI:RGRocca:dc/7468/4 March 1964 (Inventory of documents contained

in file attached for all but addressee)

201-259248

00J3342

PAGE

38

COPY

NO.

of—

HH 53320

DocId:32397242 Page 38

---

## Page 39

Inventory of Documents Contained in OSWALD Dossier Forwarded

to the Commission

" vV2. Newspaper Article from the Washingtox

Poat, Noyember 1, 1959

1959 (oral FBI sama

check reguest) and NR reply dated & November 1959 (Confidential)

* 1/4, Foreign Service Despatch 234, November 2, 1959 (Conidentia))

* r J5, State Telegrams 1358, November 9, 1959 (Confidestial) y

1. Jb. State Telegram 1448, November 9, 1959 (Confidential)

•M. Newspaper Clipping from Washtagton Post, November 16, 1959

it 18. Newspaper Clipping from Evening Staz, November 26, 1959

1 * 09 DBF 49478, 25 May 1960 (Confidential)

~ uX0. Internal CIA Biographic Profile dated circa May 1960 (Confidentia!)

* Á1, Letter from the Department of State (Cumming) to DDP (Biasell)

dated October 25, 1960 (DD/P 0-5679 - Secret)

riz. Do duded in a dada 21 November 1960 (0D/17 0-6003 -

113. Internal CIA

REPRO OpEn 10201

JILe, 9 December 1960

(Secret)

kJ14. State Memor:

PROHIBITED

dates January 26, 1951 (OUO)

+ {A5. State Instruction A-273, Apell 13, 1961 (OTO)

~ 16. Foreign Service Despatch 806, May 26,

• 1961 (OUO)

÷ Aã. Foreiga Service Despatch 29, July 11, 1961 (OVO)

i AB. DFB Z2181, July 13, 1961 (Confidential)

ATT. I Ji: XAAZ-22595

GS COPY

201:289248

0U03343

3.9

PAGE

COPY NO,

43

of

HH 53320

DocId: 32397242 Paye. 39-

---

## Page 40

XAAZ-22:585

C Mar 64

/19. Internal CIA Memo for the Record, 28 September 1961 (Secret)

¿ 120, Foreiga Service Despatca 317, October 12, 1961 (OUO)

" 21. I&NS Name Check Request, December 5, 1961

+ 1220 Nay 10Ba89REPREDUCTO (Contina

* 124. Newspaper Clipping tr

/23. DNA 1621, 26 ARÜHIBITED

Post, June 9, 1962.

" 3 ~25. DBA 20883, Saptember 7, 1962 (Confidential)

"× 126. DBA 51407, 10 September 1963

I ~27. DBA 52355, 24 September 1963

* 228. DBA 55715 (number unclear), November 7, 1963

- 129. DBA 55777, November 8, 1963

* /30. CIA Summary Report on Activities of OSWALD la Mexico Gity,

dated 31 January 1964

REPRODUCTION

PROHBITED

10% 3:

OS COPY

•=20

201-289248

ÜỤU3344

43

PAGE

40

COPY NO. -

of

WW 53920 Dockl: 32397242 Page 10

---

## Page 41

SECRET

EYES ONLY

20 February 1964

MEMORANDUM TORREPRABICTION

SUBJECT:

FROLIBITED OSWALD's 201 Filo

1. A machine listing of documents officially recorded as being

in OSWALD's 201 file was requested and is attached. The actual

machine work of this type was begun in 1963, but a few items of previous

dates were also recorded.

2.

A comparison of the documents physically available in the

201 file and those recorded as being in the 201 file has shown that 37

documents which should be in the 201 file are not available in it. This

total is made up of:

2 dispatches

7 memoranda from the FBI

1 CSCI

2 State Department documents

25 cables.

3. Machine inquirie

REPRODMCTION

not been made.-

PROHIBITE me Numbe: 563-810

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

lossel

the

voli

1201|

illy

last Dit

SECRET

* EYES ONLY

43

41

PAGE

СОРУ NO.

• 01

HH 53320 -DocId: 32397242 Page 41

---

## Page 42

SECRET

• Ihon

filled

1"'

FIE

PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST

TO

FRADQUARTERS, RI

.c.:

DATE

FROM

eI/ SiG- Au EGERTER 140S J (x262) en

9 Deserte 1960

INSTRUCTIONS:

Form muot be typod or printod in block li

SECTION I: AIL ENOMA

and varjan

cifying

dato varios

aliasos

sita the

alias used,

to

complate.

SECTION 11: Cryptonym or proudonym will be

REPROTICTION

applicabla) must bo

liatod.

•Il the iden.

a UNKNOWN. fOr

Stone you aro whabie

enter

SECTION Il1: To bo completed in all casos

PROHIR

SECTION

ED

SEMSITIVE

201 NO.

MOH- SENSITIVE

NAME

289248

SOURCE DOCUMENT,

ÖSWALD ,

(Pirat)

(Middlo)

-C7/5,6

_LEE

(Titlo)

NAME VARIANT

HENRy

MAME

(Last.)

(First)

(Middle)

SEX

BITT

(Title)

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON. 1S APR 1976

E 7 IMPPET CL PYOAZZOS

"....

EIS-1O3O COUNTRY OF BIRTH

OCCUFATION/P

Radar aphator

NB:

HARVEY

fist

3311/15

Nes Orlaus, her.

MAGY 2.

occ/Pos. COot

D SECTION IN TH

eng 1930 NAV

PROHIBITED

SECTION

OF RESIDENCE

COUNTS SR074

# ACTION DESX

2ND COUNTRY INTEREST 12. 3RD COUNTRY INTEREST

61/ SIG 7311

cit;?

Defected to the lesSR un October 1959

Document Number =1 b

APR 1976

for FOIA Review on

FUKM

10 - 5, 831a

-SECRET

201-289248

Alre

Faziter

RECORD COPY

(36)

0UUJ346

42

03.43

PAGE

COPY NO.

N4 33320 Docid: 32397242

Page: 42

---

## Page 43

13 TBLEG2C33

Diparimens of State

35

Action

PPI:

Info

INR

EUR

C:;

SEVC

SCS

SY

DCL

IRC

CIA

OSD

RAVY

Control: 20201

Rec'd: OCTOBER 31, 1959

FROM: MOSCOW

7:59

3 A.M.

Secretary of

TO: 1304, OCTOBER ERRODUCTION

FOR PO

PROHIBITED

CLEE HAVE OSTALO, UNMARRIÈD AGE 20 PP : 733242 ISSUED

•SEPT !0, 1959 APPEARED AT EMB TODAY TO RENOUNCE AMERICAN

CITIZENSSIP, STATED APPLIED IN MOSCOW FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP

FORT WORTH TEXAS. SAYS ACTION CONTEMPLATED LAST TWO

YEARS. MAIN REASON "I AM MARXIST"• ATTITUDE ARROGANT

AGGRESSIVE. RECENTLY DISCHARGED MARINE CORPS. SAYS HAS

OFFERED SOVIETS AN' INFORMATION HE HAS ACQUIRED AS.

ENLISTED RADAR OPERATOR.....

IN VIEW PETRULLI CASE WE PROPOSE DELAY EXECUTING RENUNCIATION

UNTIL SOVIET ACTION KNOWN OR DEPT ADVISES. DESPATCH

FOLLOW'S. PRESS INFORMED.

FREERS

jR

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS

COPY IS PROHIBITED.

0003347

43

43

PAGE

COPY NO.

of

Nw 53320 DocId:

2123 Page 43

---

