# docid-32294955

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10214-10231

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-2918-53

Released under the John

F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:Nd 45054 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, PG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/08/1958

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

SMO, GM, BKG, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

HH 45854

DocId: 32294955

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

JEK Act 6

(4)

CONT

AL

PG 92-228, 92-236

in their home and receive practically no visitors

She stated that in several casual conversations

whatevel. MANNARINO since last contacted she has not spoken

with Mrs.

of her husband's. location nor mentioned any plans to leave

New Kensington for the summer.

neighborhood source, 216 Highland Avenue,

New

Kensington,

Pa. (telephone number Edison 5-7733) on

May 27, 1958,advised SA DOUCE that he had just, returned

from his business trip to the Orient and learned of the

FBI's Interest in SAMUEL MANNARINO from Mrs.

He

stated that he would be happy to given his assistance to

the FBI

and would be especially alert for any evidence that

would indicate that GABRIEL MANNARINO might be visiting

SAMUEL MANNARINO's home..

LEADS

PITTSBURGH

At New Castle, Pa. (Lawrence County)

Will at the former location of Al's Beer Garden attempt to

develop information concerning the present whereabouts of

JIM COWARD who is reported to be cooperative and who could

furnish the location of a hunting lodge owned by the MANNARINO

brothers.

For background information refer to heading of

Places of Amusement and Hangouts Frequented in the attached

report.

At New Kensington, Pa. (Westmoreland County)

1.

Will maintain regular contact with PCIS

WALTER J. SHARKEY, PG 545-C and PG 564-0 for

the purpose of

developing current information regarding the MANNARINO brothers'

legitimate enterprises, criminal activities and associates.

Will recontact Mr. and Mrs. MARSSALL HOLT, neighborhood

sources, at 536 Charles Avenue and Mr... and Mrs.

neighborhood sources, at 216 Highland Averue.

- 3. -

45854

DocId: 32294955 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-CONF

AL

PG 92-228, 92-236

4. Will report investigation being conducted by the

Los Angeles Office to develop Information regarding

the MANNARINO brothers! association with STEPHEN

ZOCCOLI who according to the Los Angeles Police Department

reportedly made an unsuccessful attempt to enter the

bar business in Northern California several years ago

because his association with the MANNARINO brothers came

to the attention of the local police.

Investigation

requested in Pittsburgh airtel to Bureau, 4/30/58.

5. When information is received from Philadelphia will

document Philadelphia top hoodlums JAMES OSTICCO and ANGELO

SCIANDRA who according to former commissioner of investigation;

New York State, were in GABRIEL MANNARINO's automobile at

Apalachin, New York, on November 14, 1957.

6.

Will document top hoodlum RUSSELL BUFALINO when infommation

is received from Philadelphia.

Investigation requested

in Pittsburgh airtels to Philadelphia, 5/17 and. 20/58.

JEK Act 6 (4)

7.

Will recontact PCIL

concerning the

report that the MANNARINO brothers have a numbers operation

at Lloyd's Limited, 1926 Murray Avenue, Jittsburgh, Involving

DAVID LAWRENCE and

SONNY (LNU), who is probably identical

with SONNY CINSUTTI, Shylock for. the MANNARINO organization

in New Kensington.

8.

W111 follow and report SAMUEL MANNARINO's physical

condition.

9. Will report investigation being conducted by the Philadelphia

Officealät the American Export Lines to determine whether

GABRIEL MANNARINO made a reservation on the "Independence"

for May 6, 1958.

10. Will report results of supplemental investigation being

conducted by the Washington Field Office at the Passport

Division;- Department of State, to. determine whether GABRIEL

MANNARINO has requested permission to travelabroad since stop

was put into effect.on February 3, 1958.

HH

45854

DooId: 32294955 Page 3

---

