# docid-32289649

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10201-10425

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 166-1672-5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

GALE, J. H.

TO: DELOACH

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/28/1966

3

JGL, ASSOC, PROMOTION TITLE FIGHT, CONTRACT

AGREEMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289649

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE; 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAT 1AZ 201101

GSA GLA.

REG: NO'÷27

•UNITED STATES GO

RNMENT

Memorandum

Д.

0

TO

Mr. DeLoach

DATE: January 28, 1966

FROM

J. H. Gale,

Callahc

Congad

Felt

Gale.

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter

-Tele. Room

Holmes -

_Gandy

SUBJECT:

JIS.

"Milwaukee

• Phil

INTERSTATE

TRANSPORTATION IN AID

ALDERISIO, aka

OF RACKETEERING - EXTORTION

INTARAT

Bernare trickman,

wout trie

Former

professional fight

promoter

and

associate of Chicago hoodlums Sam Giancana, Anthony Accardo and

Felix "Milwaukee Phil" Alderisio, has been under development by our

Chicago Office as an informant He has a close personal relationship

with heavyweight contender Ernienterrell and at present is the music

manager for Terrell and his entertainment group.

In view of Glickman's

reputation of being a front for the mob, he has been instructed by Chicago

hoodlums to disassociate himself from Terrell so that' Terrell will present

a hoodlum-free image and

receive a title fight opportunity

According to Glickman, on Friday, January 28, 1966, Terrel

and

Cassius Clay, the current heavyweight champion, will sign a contract in

York for

a title match to be held in Madison Square Garden on

March 29, 1966.

Terrell allegedly will only receive a flat sum of

$150,000 with no percentage or expenses. In this connection,

Commission,

State

complete disassociation from Glickman. Terrell's opportunity to

fight Clay for the title in New York may hinge on whether or not he can

Ney York license.

Until recently, JulieAIsaacson, New

New York, toymaker union official,

as Terrell's manager.

Armstrong as well as other high priced Negro entertainers will 'in

future, répresent Terrell in all of his affairs.

in this capacity

is allegedly acting as a front for Felix/"Milwaukee Phil" Alderisio and

the Chicago hoodlum group.

Garden with New York hoodlum contacts,

Teddy tenner very an ers to promote square

clay-Terrell fight in New York City

1

1

FOLDED MCT 46/cE / 66

1672-

Mr. DeLoach

-

Mr. Wick

PER: 69.

-

1

Mr. Gale

LEB

-

MeAndrews Citi

& CONTINUED

OVER

]

- Mr.

Stefanak

90 FEB: 32196€

FJS : bsn1

5 5 MAR 2

1966

DocId: 32289649

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum to Mr. DeLoach

Re: Felix "Milwaukee Phil" Alderisio

Glickman states that Terrell is not acquainted with

ranking hoodlums in Chicago or New York and is completely unaware

of connections of the New York and Chicago underworld in his

affairs.

Furthermore, Glickman claims to have been threatened

by Alderisio to influence Terrell to sign with Glaser for a fight

in Madison Square Garden.

However, Glickman and Terrell have a

private understanding that Terrell

will later back out of the

contract and refuse to fight for the flat sum of $150,000 since

Clay obviously will be receiving millions in theater, film,

I television rights and from the live gate.

OBSERVATIONS:

The interest of Chicago and New York hoodlums in

fighter Terrell is similar to their previous interest and control

over heavyweight Charles "Sonny" Liston.

Glickman apparently is

being muscled out of any control he may have over Terrell by the

Chicago hoodlum group.

Obviously, contacts with him must be

handled in a most circumspect manner.

ACTION:

This matter is being closely followed and Chicago is

conducting inquiries attempting to establish a violation of

the Interstate Transportation in Aid of Racketeering - Extortion

statute in connection with Alderisio's threats against Glickman.

70p

V.

- 2

DocId: 32289649 Page 3

---

