# docid-32585200

## Page 1

Date

Page

01/07/99

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10204-10000

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-1869

Released under the John

Kennedy

sassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 45792 Date:

11-16-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: SAC, CG

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE : 06/30/66

PAGES :

252

SUBJECTS : SGI, GAL, ASSOC, OC, LCN, POLICE PROTECTION, POLIT TIES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4, REFERRED, SECTION 10(a) 2, SECTION 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/07/99

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF RCMP, IRS

COMMENTS : INC 8 LHM, REFERRED TO RCMP

174 45792

DocId: 32585200

Page

---

## Page 2

come. to him, as a man

in a position of public trust, in order

that the significance of this list might be determined. D'Arco

replied that he had no idea as to the meaning of this list.

He stated thatthis was the first he had heard about it.

He declined to speculate as to the significance of the

list. D'Arco advised that although he knew Giancana in his

youth, since Giancana grew up in the old 20th Ward, he has

not seen Giancana for a

"Iong time," and does not associate

with Giancana.

He refused comment

on four occasions when

he was informed that information had been developed that he

is a close associate of Gus Alex.

He indicated that he did

not feel, even as a public spirited citizen, that he should

talk to Alex or Giancana concerning the significance of the

list. When he was asked whether he would desire that Agents

hold

off making inquiries until he had a chance to learn

the significance of the list, he replied that the Agents had

a job to do and they should do it as theysaw fit.

When

ne was advised that if the FBI could perform their functions

discreetly without embarrassment to him if he would show any

inclination to be of assistance, D'Arço made the following

statement:. "You guys can't embarrass me in this town.

a big man here and if my constituents are satisfied with the

was "present them, I don't have to worky about nobody

Charles Postl, now deceased, owner of Postl's

Health Club, 188 West Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois,

advised in 1962 thatat that time Gus Alex and

Edward Vogel,

both leaders of organized crime in the Chicago area, frequented

the health club on an average of two, three or four

times a

week.

Postl advised that while at the club he observed

them frequently in conversation with John D'Arco and Pat

Marcy. (v)

Information was received in 1962 that at that time

Louis Briatta worked as a collector from handbooks in the

First Ward of Chicago.

Information received indicated that

Briatta, a brother-in-law of D'Arco, was given this position

by Gus Alex upon the request of D'Arco. This source advised

that he has personally observed that when John D'Arco is

in the presence of Alex he is completely subservient to Alex. (V)

(CG 6443-C contacted on numerous

dates in 1962 by SAs William A.

- 3 - Meincke and Joseph G. Shea)

NW 45792 DooId: 32585200 Page 2

---

## Page 3

detail noted the license numbers of cars of visitors who

attended this party during the course of the day

He advised that one such person attended in a car bearing 1954

560h in can

and evening.

license number 18670960, which he advised he had found to

be listed to one A.P. Tisci, 1512 South Wisconsin Avenue,

Berwyn, Illinois. (U)

Lieutenant Morris advised on May 21, 1955, that his

officers observed visitors to the wake of the

mother of

Samuel M. Giancana at the Rago Funeral Home, 5132 West Fullerton

Avenue, in August, 1964• Lieutenant Morris advised that his

officers noted the license numbers of individuals who drove

cars to attend this wake.

He advised that one of these

cars bore a license number 1867-960, which he advised to be

listed to

Illinois.

(U)". Tisch, 1512 South Wisconsin Avenue, Berwyn,

Captain William J. Duffy, Director, Intelligence

Unit, Bureau of Inspectional Services, Chicago Police Department,

advised that his files contain the information that an

investigation of his unit determined that Charles English

sold his home sometime

prior to 1960 to Anthony P. Tisci,

the son-in-law of Sam

"Mooney" Giancana.

Captain

Duffy

advised

that his file showed that Tisci had previously resided at

1645 South Harlem in Berwyn, Illinois. (U)

Information has been received that among

associates as Antony P. Tisci are the following:/(Ulthe close

Charles English,

Sam Giancana,

Tarquin

"Queenie" Simonelli,

Joe Marks, and

Dominic "Butch" Blasi.

(Agnes Coyne,

PCI to Special

Agent Marshall E. Rutland on

September 21, 1965)

- 4 -

HIH

45792

DooId: 32585200

Page 3

---

## Page 4

RE: JOHN PHILLIP CERONE, SR.

On March 27, 1963, a confidential source advised

that Jack Cerone and

Skippy Cerone, a cousin of Jack; were

both staying at the Thunderbird Motel.(U)

(Former PCI James William Cariota of the Miami Division)

A confidential source advised in May, 1963, that

Irma Green is the wife of Irving Green, President of

Mercury

Records Corporation, and resides in Half Day, Illinois.

According to this source, Irma Green has been Jack Cerone's

paramour for a number of

years, and it is the opinion of this

source that Irma Green and Jack Cerone may possibly be connected

some kind onese pom to sa william L. Bailey

during period of May 8 to 31, 1963.)

On July 29, 1963, Special Agents Vincent L. Inserra

and Robert J. Tompkins, Jr. observed Jack Cerone, Anthony J.

Accardo, Gus Alex, Frank

Ferraro, Michael Brodkin, Eugene

Bernstein, Fred "Jukebox" Smith, Joe Glimco, Ralph Pierce, and

Hi Godfrey at Staley's Restaurant, Congress Parkway and Wells

street, Chicago, Illinois.U

• .

On September 26, 1963, Dr. Sol T. DeLee advised Special

Agents Dennis W. Shanahan and John W. Roberts, Jr. that he has

been acquainted

with Jack Cerone

for approximately six or seven

years having met him at the Tamo'shanter Golf Course. He stated

that he often played golf with Cerone's foursome which led to

a regular thing and involved wagering.

Dr: DeLee stated that

at the outset he was a consistent winner; however, as the wagers

increased, his winnings diminished and he subsequently lost

heavily to Jack Cerone.

He did not state the entire amount of

his losses, but did state that in addition to several thousand

dollars he

had paid Cerone several hundred dollars a year for

his numerous losses. Dre DeLee stated he paid Cerone by check

and that Cerone was agreeable to this.

addition to Cerone, he often played golf with Lou Rosonova and

Marty Stanovich and

a few others whose names he could not recall. (U)

On January 7, 1964, Captain Thomas Mahon, Cook County

Sheriff's Police, Niles, Illinois, advised Special Agent Logan C.

Pickerl that on December

27, 1963

the English Brothers, Charles

Nicolette, and Jack Cerone were observed at the Red Steer located

at River Road and Grand Avenue in Niles, Illinois, by members of

the Cook County Sheriff's Police. These

individuals met at

supper hour and sat at a table in one corner of the room. (U)

WW 45792 DocId: 32585200 Page 1

---

## Page 5

RE: JOHN PHILLIP CERONE, SR.

advised that in the summer of 1963, a raid was conducted on

a bookmaking establishment at the Lawndale District which

was owned by Cerone, and that Cerone expressed great concern

over this inasmuch as this establishment was a large money maker.

The source stated that besides Cerone's wife, he has a son

approximately 23 years old, Jack Jr., who was then attending

• law school in Chicago and is married

and has one child. The

source advised that Jack Jr. received support for his family

and schooling from his father.

Source also advised that Cerone

reports legitimate income for tax purposes from the Ritelite

Company which is operated by Cerone's nephew called "Tar Baby"

(Jack S. Cerone).

Source advised that approximately eight years

ago, Jack Cerone suffered a heart attack which caused him to

e hospitalized in the Garfield Hospital in Chicago, but thai

since then he seems to enjoy good health./U

(Former CG 6729-C-TE, contacted by SA Robert J.

Tompkins, Jr.)

A confidential source advised on October 6, 1964, that

on October 5, 1964, Jack Cerone and Irma Green visited Orlando's

Hideaway, Manheim Road, Schiller Park, Illinois, where Cerone

made a telephone call on a pay phone to the Foxhead Brewery in

Waukesha, Wisconsin.

According to this source, Cerone advised

the person to whom he spoke that he should search the records

of the brewery for all data concerning dates of employment and

moneys paid to Cerone for his employment. (U)

(Former CG 6799-PC, to SA John W. Roberts, Jr.)

On November 11, 1964, Special Agents James W. Gerblick

and Paul J. Neumann observed Jack Cerone and twelve other

individuals board Delta Airlines flight 83 for Miami, Florida.

Prior to the boarding, Cerone had been observed in a conversation

with Anthony Accardo;

however, Accardo did not board the plane

with them.

At 1:28 AM, November 12, 1964, Special Agents Ralph

R. Hill, Eugene Mc Kinney, and Vince Stacey, observed Cerone

and twelve other individuals deplane from Delta Airlines flight

83 at Miami, Florida. Agents observed among others Jack Cerone

Lou Rosanova among this

group, and all proceeded to the

King's Bay Country Club, South Day County, Florida, where they

checked into the hotel

section of the club. It is noted that

the manifest for Delta flight 83

contained the following persons

with reservations for this flight; reservations being made by the

Nitti Travel Agency, and all listed their addresses as Riverwoods

Country Club: (U)

- 8. -

NN 45792 DocId:32585200 Page 5

---

## Page 6

RE:

JOHN PHILLIP CERONE, S

J. Schiller

P. Lavery

J. Leavy

B. Leavy

R. Witz

J. Cerone

L. Bush

J. Campenalla

P. Rothchild

J. Slavin

D.

Serafin

V. Serafin

L. Rosanova

On January 18, 1965, Special Agents Elliott W. Anderson

and John H. Wilmes observed Jack Cerone, Murray Humphreys, Paul

De Lucia, Lesley Kruse, Ralph Pierce, Hi Godfrey, Anthony

Pinelli,

George Dicks, and Michael Broakin at

a luncheon meeting at the

Palmer House

Grill, 114 South Wabash,

Chicago, Illinois, between

the hours of 11:40 AM and 1:05 PM (U

in te sch at to an it are on 2 to at or no tina

dinner meeting

at Joe Sonkin's Restaurant, Hollywood, Florida.(

(MM 1003-C-TE, furnished information to SA Ralph R. Hill).

On March 23, 1965, Special Agents Ralph R. Hill and

Eugene Mc Kinney observed Jack Cerone conterrin:

at the Bayshore Coffee Shop in Miami, Floridal With Dave Yaras

On March 29, 1965, Jack Cerone and Dave Yaras were

observed conferring with Lou Rosanova at the Bayshore Municipal

Golf Course, Miami Beach, Florida, by Special Agent Ralph R. Hill

(v)

_9-

HH 45792

DooId:32585200

Page 6

---

## Page 7

A confidential source continued to furn gN REbration

during 1959 and

1960, concerning relationship between then

Lieutenant Mc Cain and Gus Alex and his associates. He noted

that when the Chicago Police Department under went a shakeup

and Orlando W. Wilson was appointed superintendent of the

Chicago Police Department in early 1960, he appointed Joseph

Morris as Deputy Superintendent of the Chicago Police Department

in Charge of the Bureau of Inspectional Services which included

the Intelligence Unit.

Mc Cain, then still a lieutenant, worked

under Deputy Morris until approximately the middle of 1960, when

he was transferred to a division called Human Relations and made

a captain.: Captain Mc Cain continues to occupy this position

with the chicaso polzee department as of the date of this report. (U)

(CG 6343-C*)

A confidential source advised on February 21, 1961,

that during

the past eight years he estimated that a half million

dollars in "fix money" for the "outfit" was given to various

policemen of the Chicago Police Department for various favors

received.

He stated that the money was generally paid by the

"hoodlums" engaged in gambling activities with Lester Kruse.

He stated that the money would be left in an envelope for the

various police officials to pick up at a certain location and

that each envelope would be numbered which would indicate the

specific policeman to receive the envelope. He advised that one

Julie Epstein was the individual who always dropped the envelopes

of money off at a certain restaurant. Informant further stated

that Epstein is a very trusted individual by Gus Alex and his

associates and ran and supervised the gambling activities at the

J& J Picnic Grove during the Accardo trial when Ralph Pierce

was out of the country and Gus Liebe stayed away from the game. (u)

(CG 6443-C)

A confidential source on March 2, 1961, named police

officials who received numbered envelopes containing fixed money

over the past eight years from Julie Epstein: (U)

Kyran Phalen, former Deputy Commissioner of Police.

Chicago Police Department, now retired from the Chicago

Police Department and associated with the Coroner's

Office, City of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois

Captain James Hackett, a well known Chicago Police

Captain. (U)

CANFIDENTIAL

2

HH 45792

DocId: 32585200 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Editor of the "Sun-Times" newspaper, Chicago. He advised

for some reason pape gave quantities of money to walsh. (ulthat

(CG 6443-C)

It.is to be noted that source has

stated-in the past

that Louis Briatta is the top lieutenant of Frank Ferraro

and Gus Alex in Chicago's First Ward gambling activities and

that Briatta is a delivery man to ferraro, of the profits

from the gambling activity in Chicago's First Ward.(U

A confidential source advised that during the Fall of

1960, Chicago top hoodlums Gus Alex and Frank Ferraro, and others

were attempting to contribute $20,000.00 to then Cook County

states Attorney Ben Adamowski for his re-election campaly)

through one Les Trilla referred to as "The Barrel Man.

(CG 6343-C*)

A confidential source advised that Gus Alex has been

a long-time associate of Alderman D'Arco and that from time to

time money has passed from Alex and his associates to D'Arco.

Informant advised that it is his belief that this money is

passed to D'Arco from profits of gambling organized by the

hoodlums in the First Ward of

the City of Chicago. This

informant also advised that D'Arco is very closely associated

with Gus Alex,

Frank Ferraro, and Sam Giancana, as well as

Humphreys, all of whom have been identified as

associates of

Alex under the caption "Associates".

Source advised that Gus

Alex utilizes the services of Alderman John D'Arco on many

occasions for the purpose of obtaining favors from other

politicians and public officials.

This informant noted that

D'Arco is used by Alex to contact Mayor Richard J. Daley of

Chicago but pointed out that he is not in a position to advise

whether Mayor Daley is aware of the close connection of D'Arco

and Alex or whether Mayor Daley is aware that when the favor

is asked of him by D'Arco whether D'Arco represents Alex and

his

associates.(v)

(CG 6343-C*)

Roswell I. Spencer, Chief Investigator, States Attorney's

Office, advised when he became employed for the States Attorney

Daniel Ward in the early part of 1961, he cautioned Ward

concerning the "hoodlum connections" of Alderman John D'Arco.

Spencer advised that when he so cautioned Ward, Ward commented

to him

that

he was identically cautioned by Mayor Richard J.

Daley. (V

HH 45792

DocId: 32585200 Page 8

---

## Page 9

A confidential source advised that Gus Alex, through

his contacts with Alderman John D'Arco of the First Ward of the

City of Chicago, has been put in touch with Paul C. Ross, who

is a Republican

politician who ran unsuccessfully in the last

elections for alderman of a near north side ward. Informant

stated that D'Arco has been using Ross as an informant for

obtaining information concerning strategy of Republican

leaders in Chicago. (U)

(CG 6443-C)

A confidential source advised in April, 1961, that

John D'Arco, Jake Arvey, Frank Chesrow, and an individual by

the name of

Anzennio (phonetic) went to see Mayor Richard J.

Daley in March, 1961, to push the public appointment of Judge

Daniel Covelli for a

federal judgeship in the Northern District

of Illinois at Chicago.

Covelli is currently judge of Cook

County Superior Court and formerly judge of Criminal Courts

of Cook County.

Frank Chesrow is chairman of the Chicago

Sanitary District and according to informant is a member of

the Sicilian Fraternal Society and also godfather of one of

Tony Accardo's children.

Informant stated that Anzennio is

a silent partner of D'Arco's insurance company. (U)

(CG 6443-C)

A confidential source has advised on numerous occasions

from 1959

through early 1961, that John D'Arco is used by Chicago

"hoodlums." on frequent occasions when they desire favors from top

officials from the Chicago City Administration.

As an example of

this informant said that when the Chicago "hoodlums" desired to

have Captain Frank Pape of the Chicago Police Department

transferred from a remote south side district to the Central

Police District they called Alderman D'Arco and instructed him

to contact Mayor Daley of Chicago concerning their wishes. In

this regard informant stated that the very next day an

announcement was made that Captain Pape was being transferred

to the Central Police District as a commander.(U)

(CG 6343-C*)

A confidential source advised during the winter of

1960, that John D'Arco was attempting to intercede on behalf of

Gus Alex, Sam Giancana, and their associates with the States

Attorney of Cook County, Benjamin Adamowski, in an attempt to

gain Adamowski's assurance or promise that the activities of

Alex and his associates would

go more or less unhindered.(u)

NN 45792 DocId: 32585200

Page 9

+

---

## Page 10

nervousness.

Source related Alex made several visits to

condition was pronounced cured and his anxiety apparently.

removed. (U)

(Dr. William Terhune, Silver Hill

Sanitarium, New Canaan, Connecticut)

Another confidential

source advised he has known

Alex to frequent the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota,

in the past, stating

that Alex is bothered by ulcers and a

heart condition. U

(CG 6272-C)

Current Residence

A confidential source advised that Mr. and Mrs. Sam

Taylor rented Apartment 10C at 1150 North Lake Shore Drive,

on February 1, 1961.

It was subsequently determined that

is identical with Suzanne

san Tent i lentical e theges leg and that Nra. Taydor

(Frank La Croix (PCI))

Position of Alex in Chicago

Organized Criminal Setup

-

A confidential source advised in 1946 that Gus Alex

nas been connected with the "syndicate

aproximately 17 years of age.

ndicate" in enderstands that

at that time Alex was residing on Wentworth Avenue, Chicago,

and Alex had come' to the attention of the "syndicate" due to

his unusual physical strength. Source further advised that in

1946 the disciplinary portion of the "Capone syndicate" was

headed by Gus and 'Sam Alex and "Tough Tony" Capezio. Arother

source advised in 1958 that in the late 1940's and until

the death of Jake "Greasy Thumb" Guzik in early 1956, Gus

Alex was Guzik's righthand man.

He stated Alex

began his

association with

¿ Guzik as Guzik's bodyguard. (U)

(Joseph

Club,

Midlothian Country

Records of the Chicago Crime Commission contained

a memorandum from operating Director Virgil W. Peterson

dated October 30; 1952, stating that according to reliable

-7.

CONFIDENTIA!

HN 45792 DocId:32585200 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Illegal Activities

The /confidential source advised 'on June 19, 196811L

that Gus

Alex was associated with Leo Schafer, a bookie who

was arrested in Terre Haute, Indiana, in connection with

the operation of a multi-million dollar sports service.

Schafer was convicted on a tax charge in connection with the

above gambling operation in June, 1959. Another confidential

source advised on November 16, 1960, he recently learned that

Louis Tornabene

trouble with the "hoodlums"

in Chicago. He

advised Tornabene had been running a horse

book in the vicinity of the Santa Fe Hotel, Polk and State

Streets, Chicago, for some time and had withheld approximately

$75,000 from the underworld by not showing all his patrons

on his books. Source stated he had learned that Gus Alex,

who is in charge of the gambling district where Tornabene

ran his handbook, would take action in the future after some

of this money has been collected and that the word among

the "hoodlums" was that Tornabene would eventually be

disposed of (U)

(CG 6443-C)

A confidential source advised on June 10, 1959, l

that Alex continues) to control the Loop area of Chicago

for the "Chicago crime syndicate"

• This source stated

all gambling whichats currently in operation in the Loop

area of Chicago, /is controlled by Alex, and all gamblers must

be sanctioned by Alex or by Alex's righthand man, Frank

Ferraro. (U

(CG 6272-C)

HIAL

- 10

-

HH 45792

DocId: 32585200

Page 11

---

## Page 12

A confidential source advised on April 11, 1961;

that Alex continues to be the boss of the Loop concerning

gambling in Chicago. (v)

(CG 6272-C)

He stated Alex controls all gambling in the Loop

area and on the near west and south sides of Chicago. He

related Louis Briatta is directly under Alex in his control

of gambling in the Loop. He stated that at that time

Briatta had five or six offices in the Loop area; however,

only one of these offices is in operation at one time.

stated one of these offices was located at 180 North Wacker

so soren acter

Drive in Room 300, which office was raided by the Chicago

Police Department

on April 7, 1961. He related Briatta

uses these offices as his headquarters to control all

organized gambling under the direction of Gus Alex.

He

related every bookmaker in the Loop area controlledby

Alex must call in each bet as it is received and turn over

50 per cent of all profits to the "outfit". (U)

(CG 6272-C)

Shylocking

that the juice racket which is synonomous with shylocking

controlled by members of the "outfit". He stated Gus Alex

at that time controlled the "juice business" on the south side

of Chicago in the area between Lake Michigan east, and to

Ashland Avenue on the west, or from 22nd Street on the north

south. This source lurther advised

/actually run for Alex by Frank Caruso

who operated out of "The Bowery", a tavern owned by Caruso

on the south

side of 22nd Street just west of Wentworth Avenue.

He stated he definitely knows Caruso controlled all gambling

and "juice" and believed that all jukeboxes and cigarette

machines in the area were under the trusteeship of Caruso

for Alex. (4)

(CG 6171-C)

- 11 -

HH 45792

DocId: 32585200 Page 12

---

## Page 13

wolvr

Prostitution and Strip Joints

NIAt

A confidential source advised on February 7, 1961,

that Loule Arger as a lieutenant of Gus Alex and that

Arger

was

assigned by Alex to collect the take from the

strip clubs operating in the First Ward of the City of Chicago.

This source stated these clubs had become a very lucrative

source of income to the organized crime element in Chicago

due to the fact that in addition to the income from prostitution,

the strippers solicit male customers to purchase liquid

refreshments which are priced far in access of their usual

retail price.

This source advised that on the first business

day of each month Arger meets with Alex, usually in the locker

room of Postl's Health Club, 188 West Randolph Street, where

he furnishes Alex with an envelope containing Alex's cut

from these strip joints. (U)

(CG 6443-C)

Gang Crimes with which Alex

May Be Connected

The "Chicago Tribune" in its issue of April 11,

1930, carried an article reflecting that Alex was arrested

by the Chicago Police at the age of 17 along with three

other youths for questioning in the murder of Robert Boch.

It is noted Robert Boch was a gambler who operated on the

south side of Chicago and who was wounded by gunshot fire

in latter October, 1964. He was a brother-in-law of Danny

Stanton, hoodlum gambler with intluential underworld connectzon

who was

killed in gang-land fashion earlier the same year. u

The "Chicago American" in its issue of November 16,

1944, carried an article stating that heading a list of those

wanted for questioning concerning the shooting of Boch

was Gus Alex, who was described in the article, with the

Chicago Police being source, as "one of the slicket and

wiliest' of Chicago gangsters.

Chicago Police also described

him, according to this article, as "Mr. Muscles" of the

re-organized

syndicate headed by Tony Accardo and Jake Guzik. (v)

- 12 -

ANTIAL

HH 45792 Do0Id:32585200 Pade 13

---

## Page 14

In March, 1961, a source stated Gus Alex was met

on March 11, 1961,

at O'Hare Airport, Chicago, by Nathan

Ladon, his chauffeur. According to this source, Alex was

returning from Phoenix, Arizona.

Alex was on Flight 66,

American Airlines, from Phoenix, Arizona, arriving at

Chicago at 6:45 p.m. (U)

CG .6450-C*

A source advised in March, 1961, that an individual

known as "Fat Tony" works for Skid Caruso

who is in charge

of collections for. Gus Alex on the south side of Chicago. (U)

CG 6443-C

HIT

45792

DocId: 32585200

Page 14

---

## Page 15

1a2

this regard it should be noted that leisman was

the owner of the record which purchased the jukevori business of

the Chicago Music Company, 516 South Cicero Avenue, Chicago, which

company was owned by Edward Gillingan.

On October 17, 1963, an unknown individual telephonically

contacted the Federal Bureau

of Investigation Office and advised

that Charles English, Ed Vogel, Marshall Caifano and (First Name

Unknown) Vignola had

put up money to purchase the A. C. Mc Clurg

and Company

This complainant refused to identify himself for fear

of having "his head blown off".

According to this complainant

the above men borrowed $2,000,000 from the Walter Heller Company

and put up phony bonds as

collateral. U

Situation Involving Dr. Anthony J.

Verdone and Charles English

Chicago has received

reliable information from an informant

that one Frank Alesia is a Chicago bookmaker and

and bookmaker for Charles and Sam English. (C

an associate

• CG 6512-C-TE

During the course of the investigation of the Vernon Hills

Country Club gambling club in 1963 reportedly one of the biggest

losers financially, who attended the gambling operation with somes

frequency, was Doctor Anthony J. Verdone of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Considerable investigation was conducted of Verdone, both in

Milwaukee and Chicago, and he was interviewed in this connection

and subsequently @lled before the Federal Grand Jury in Milwaukee

to testify to

Liaw 10(a)2

is known to be associated with hoodlums, both in Chicago

and in Milwaukee, and provided very enlightening information

concerning l

It is noted

that

Verdone is reportedly one of the wealthiest doctors in

Wisconsin, yet his former wife and associates advised he reportedly

lost real

estate and money.

It was also reliably reported that

Verdone was fearful for his life and frequently disturbed after

receiving long distance phone calls from Chicago and also visitors

from Chicago reportedly representing the hoodlum element. (U)

- 15.

HH 45792

DooId: 32585200

Page 15

---

## Page 16

"Chicago Daily News" on November 24,

1953,06

carried an article stating that the Chicago Police Depart-

ment had picked up Jake "Greasy Thumb" Guzik for questioning

regarding the kidnapping.of Representative

Graver, and that

seized with Guzik was hoodlum Gus Alex.(U

Information received on June 12, 1953, by the

Chicago Crime Commission indicated that Clem Graver, State

Legislator for the List ward, was alleged to have been

kidnapped because he took money from Sam Giancana to get

someone out of prison and failed to deliver, and that Sam

Battaglia, Frank Ferraro, and Gus Alex were assigned to

handle the kidnapping either themselves or through others.(U)

In a "Daily News" clipping of November 24, 1953,

• it is stated that Jake Guzik and Gus. Alex were arrested by

the police for questioning in the Clem Graver kidnapping.

It is noted they were arrested in the

Company, 53 West Jackson Boulevard. (U)Celano Tailoring

Illegal Union Activities

A confidential source advised in 1958 that Joseph

Paul Glimco,

whose brother Frank is married to a sister of

Gus Alex, lis/the front man for Alex and that Alex and Murray

Humphreys are members of the "Chicago Syndicate"

, who with

several politicians and attorneys control the labor rackets

in the Chicago area.

It is noted that Joseph Glimco was then

President of the Taxicab Union Local 777, International

Brotherhood of Teamsters, AFI-CIO. (U)

(CG 5973-C)

In October, 1947, Captain Barnes, Labor Detail,

Chicago Police Department, advised that Gus Alex was the

number one Chicago underworld "torpedo" and that Alex went

into the 606 Club at 606 South Wabash Avenue, Chicago, in

1947 and told the bartenders there that they

had better

vote in a certain way in the coming bartenders

union elec-

tion or "the joint would be closed." (V)

• 88.

CONF

HH 15792 DocId:32585200 Page 16

---

## Page 17

NTIAL

Information was received from the Chicago

Commission on May 6, 1952, that Gus Alex was

alleged to

control the Tile Setters

Union in Chicago. (U)

A confidential source advised he received informa-

tion on February 16, 1961, that Gus Alex was opposed to Gus

Zappas being the Business

Manager for the Laundry Workers

Union.

However the stated Alex was overruled by Murray

Humphreys, who has the last word regarding union activities.

This source advised on March 10, 1961, he had received

information that Gus Alex stays with James R. Hoffa at the

Junes Hotel when they are in Las Vegas together.U

(CG 6443-C)

This confidential source further advised on

February 16, 1961, that the "hoodlums" control the Bartenders

Union in Chicago.

In this connection, source stated that the

head of the Bartenders Union is an individual named Shuman or

Shumerman. Source related he was of the opinion, however,

that Shuman was being forced out of the union by the "outfit"

as they wanted to put in a man whom they could control.

Source

stated Gus Alex and Sam Giancana were two of the "hoodlums" who

were attempting to force

Shuman out of the Bartenders Union. (U)

(CG 6443-C)

Police Protection and Political Ties

1 confidential source advised on February 21, 1901,

that during the preceding eight years he estimated that

one-half million dollars in "fixed money" for the "outfit"

was given to various policemen of the Chicago Police Depart-

ment for various favors received.

He stated that the money

was

generally paid by the hoodlums engaged in gambling

activities with lester Kruse. He stated the money would be

left in an envelope for the various police officials to pick

up at a certain location and that each envelope would be

numbered which would indicate the specific policeman who was

to receive the envelope. He advised one Julie Epstein was

the individual who always dropped the envelopes of money oft

at a certain restaurant.

Source further stated epstein

very

trusted individual by Gus Alex and his associates. yO

(CG 6443-C)

CONFOENTIA!

18

HN 45792 DooId:32585200 Page 17

---

## Page 18

Miscellaneous

On Decemper 6, 1960, a source advised that

Gus Alex continues/to be the "boss of the loop" for the

COnnertIAL

Chicago crime syndicate. According to the source

Alex

has charge of all gambling: activities in the first ward

area

of Chicago for the syndicate.

Briatta as Alex's first lieutenant in this regard and

It is Briatta who is in charge of the day by day operations

of Alex's organization. Source learned that Aaron Oberlander

was working for Briatta in Briatta's office, the location

of which source did not know.

Until recently Oberlander had

been working for two nephews of Alex who operate a handbook

near the corner of oak and Rush Streets. (U)

• . (CG 6272-C)

In 1960 a source advised that the Normandy

Inn is a hangout for Chicago hoodlums such as Gus Alex,

who occasionally meets Alderman John D'Arco at this

location. (U

(PCI Joseph J. Daly)

On March 31, 1959, a source adkised it was

her belief that Henry Susk and Gus Alex are/Joint owners

of the Hucksters Restaurant, Chicago and Rush Streets,

Chicago. Source based this

belief on the fact that Susk

ind Alex evidence a strong interest in all financia.

aspects of the operation of this restaurant.

(PCI Tura Flotz)

In February, 1961, Gustav Allgauer, operator

of Albauer's Restaurant in the Villa Moderne, Highland

Park,

Illinois, and Allgauer's Old Heidelberg, Radolph

and State

Streets, Chicago, advised that on February 15,

or 16, 1961, Murray Humphreys, Gus Alex, and two other

individuals came to the Old Heidelberg for lunch. Allgauer

did not know who they were at the time and

them for

their reservations.

Alex pulled a roll of money out of his

pocket, peeled off a ten dollar bill, and said, "Here's

my reservation."

Allgauer explained to Alex that he was

the owner and could not accept this money. He then seated

63m

HN 45792 DocId:32585200 Page 18

---

## Page 19

for.

the group in the downstairs section of the restaurant.

CONFRONTIAL

thereafter, Aligauer was advised by his hatcheck girl that

four of the individuals in this group were Alex, Humphreys,

Frank Ferraro, and Hy Godfrey. The hatcheck girl advised

these men have been coming in on an almost daily basis for

the past two or three weeks and

Alex, ferraro, and Coatey were in to lue 3, 1962,

Mary Lou Barrett, Assistant to the Manager,

Swiss Air, Chicago, Illinois, advised on January 12, 1961,

that Gus

Alex had booked space on Flight 863 scheduled

to leave New York City, Idlewild Airport, on January 14,

1961, at 5:55 p.m., nonstop to Geneva, Switzerland.

The reservation wasmade by Alex while in New York sometime.

prior to January 12, 1961. Miss Barrett said that Alex

had reservations at the Richmond Hotel in Geneva,

Switzerland, for the evenings of January 15th and 16th,

1961, and in the Bayershire Hotel

in Munich, Germany,

on January 17th and loth, lubt. (

On January 14, 1961, Miss Barrett said that

Alex failed to appear at

Swiss

Air either at Chicago or

in New York to pick up his tickets and that swiss A1l

had cancelled he reservation. /U

Geneva, Switzerland

Police advised on January 19,

1961, that Alex arrived in Geneva on January 18, 1961,

and resided that evening at the Hotel Richmond

in Geneva.

On January 20, 1961, Alex departed Geneva by air and arrived

at Munich, Germany,

that same date. The Geneva Police

determined at a later date that while in Geneva Alex had

been

in contact with one, Edmond Cohen, a French Nationalist,

who is a resident of Istanbul, Turkey. Cohen was unknown

to the Geneva Police and the

signifigance of their meeting

was not known. Another individual with whom he was in

touch while in Geneva was one Paul Biner, the Superintendent

of a business building in Geneva.

The signifigance

this

meeting was also unknown to the Geneva Police. (P)

CONPENTIAI

=

HN 45792 DooId:32585200 Page 19

---

## Page 20

For.

CUNFIDENTIAL

On January 26, 1961, the German Federal Police

advised that Alexhad arrived in Munich on January 20, 1961,

and

stayed at the Hotel Four Seasons.

He left this hotel

on January 41, 1961, with a woman subsequently identified

as Ditgard

vunich but who haaho as of that time was residing in-

formerly resided in Chicago.

She also

had a current address of 721 Northeast 25th Street,

Miami, Florida, It appeared that Alex and his companion.

en route to a

a skiing area. (PU)

The following information was furnished by

the Bundeskriminalamt (BKA-West German Federal Criminal.

Police), and was obtained. by the BKA from the Bavarian

Landeskriminalamt (LKA-Bavarian State Criminal Police). (AW)

On January 25, 1961, the LKA determined that

Alex had been in Munich since January 20, 1961, and was

residing in the Hotel Vier Jahreszeiten, room

201/2.

He registered under the name of Gus Alex, described

as

born April 1, 1916, at Chicago, Illinois. (CA(4)

At about 11:00 a.m. on January 24, 1961, Alex

went to the Swiss Air office at Number 5, Maximiliansplatz

in Munich and there had an airline ticket endorsed to

Air France in Munich. At this latter airline he booked

single first-class passage for a flight leaving Munich

January 30, 1961, at 3:05 p.m. to arrive Paris, France

at 4:35 p.m., the same date, and also on the same day

from Paris at 5:20 p.m. en route to Montreal, Canada,

to arrive 7:10 p.m.

(All times local time)

He also

pooked reservations to leave Montreal for Detroit a twelve

o'clock. ( (4)

Alex departed from the Hotel Jahreszeiten

unexpectedly and without giving prior notice of January 25,

11961. After leaving the hotel, he picked up a blond

woman described as well dressed and about 23 to 25 years

of age.

At the car rental from Selbstfaher Union it was

learned that Alex had been recommended to this firm by

one Steve Lohr of General Tours, 595 Madison Avenue 1)

CONF

SENTIAR

8 1

HH 15792 DocId:32585200 Page 20

---

## Page 21

For.

CONFA

New York, New York, who

of the Munich firm,

is a business friend of the manager

Mr. Hilzberger.

When picking up a

car on January 25, 1961, Alex indicated he would travel

to Innsbruck and Kitzbuehel,

Austria, and would return

the car by January 29, 1961.

NTIAL

On January 26, 1961, Alex stayed at the Hotel

Bayerischer Hof where he used Room 30.

He checked out

of this hotel on the morning of Januaxy 27, 1961-14S(4)

After leaving the above hotel, Alex checked

into the Hotel Koeningshof On Karlsplatz in Munich, staying

here until he left Munich on January 30, 1961. Prior

to leaving he made a reservation through Air France for

a room at the Hotel Ritz Carlton in Montreal, Canada,

for the night of January 30, 1961. He was seen off

at the airport by Ditgard Maier.

She was reported as being

married to Helmut Maier and to have resided at sy

North Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. 4)

Bernard Cetchinson, Manager, Plaza Hotel,

59 North Avenue,

Chicago,

advised that

Helmut and Ditgard

Maier checked out of that hotel on December 15, 1959• (4)

A source advised in February of 1961, that

11 or 12 years ago two individuals by the name

Allman (phonetic) and Lillianthall (phonetic) owned

the St. Clair and Eastgate Hotel, Chicago, Illinois.

Source

stated these individuals were killed in a

airplane crash

and that the corporations owning the hotels were placed in

receivership. A short time later Sidney Korshak, Attorney,

at 134 North

LaSalle, Chicago, handled legal arrangements

when Gus Alex and Frank Ferraro invested $259,000 and $150,000,

respectively, in both hotels. (U)

(CG-6443-C-TE)

The above source also advised it was his understanding

that Alex and Ferraro owned the drugstore located in the lobby

of the Croydon Hotel, Chicago.

The source noted that an

individuals named Gold or Goldberg was utilized by

Alex and ferraro as a "front" in the operation of this druestored ul

• (CG-6443-C-TE)

& %

HN 45792 DooId:32585200 Page 21

---

## Page 22

On January 7, 1961, above source stated he had

received information

amount of money in a large parking garage located on

northeast corner of Wabash and Randolph Streets, Chicago.

According

• to this source, an individual named Kaplan/is

used by Alex as a front in the operation of this garáge.

He added that frequently Alex can be

with Ferraro counting the receipts. (U

seen at the garage

(CG 6443-C-TE)

• In February, 1961, a source stated he had

received information relating that Alex has/a financial

interest in the National Maintenance Corporation located

at 545 west Madison Street, Chicago. Ostensibly the

company is/ owned by Ben Stein, who

fronts for Alex.

Other offiers of this company

were identified as Dominic

Senese,

a cousin of Tony Accardo, Victor Comforte,.

and Louie Arger,

a lieutenant of Alex.

The company

maintains its account at the Exchange National Bank in

Chicago.

Alex and his associates in the company "muscled"

tormer owners of the

peration about four years. (Unpany whichhas been in

(CG 6443-C-TE)

The function of the above business is to

provide maintenance and janitorial service to Chicago

businesses.

Accounts of this business are the Merchandise

Mart and Mc Cormick Place.

Customers of this company

contract with it for labor at $17 or $18 per employee who

received only $6.50 for each day of work. Many of the -

company's employees are derelicts. (V)

(CG -6443-C-TE)

It is the understanding of the above source that

the National Maintenance Corporation has an arrangement with

Tom Burke, an official of the Janitors' Union in Chicago,

whereby Burke receives $2,000 a month from the company.

In

return for the money, Burke assists the company in obtaining

business accounts

fromaunion shop.

@Ug insures that the company will he free

(CG. 6443-C-TE)

CONFIS

ANTIAN

₴ 3

HN 45792 DoOId:32585200 Page 22

---

## Page 23

In February, 1961, a source identified ne

Ramey as Gus Alex's man

in a

crap game in Cicero, Illinis.

He handled the "6 for 5 money" at the game

but used some

of this money himself and Alex let him go. U

(CG 6443-C-TE)

A source advised in February, 1961, that on the:

first business day of each month Louie Arger takes the.

"outfit" cut of the money for the operation of strip

joints in the Van Buren, Wabash, and State Stret areas

to Gus Alex at Postis

Gym ilocker room located on the

27th floor at 188 West Randolph, Chicago. U)

(CG 6443-C-TE)

Above source stated that one Sid Frasin who had

been missing since the summer of 1960 had taken some of

the money collected from books in the first district

where he

was a former collector and got in trouble with

Gus Alex.

Frasin worked for Louie Briatta, a brother-in-law

of John D'Arco:

Source stated that D'Arco

and Alderman,

is a friend of Gus Alex, and when he is in Alex's presence,

ne is subserviant to him,

On February 16g

1961,

a source advsed that

Gus Alex and Sam Giancana have

a financial interest in the

Speedway Wrecking Company.

-(CG. 6443-C-TE) •

According to the above source, Louis Arger,

associated with Gus Alex, muscled his way into part

ownership of the Crossroads Restaurant at Van Buren anc

State Streets, Chicago, in the amount of $30,000. Owners

of the restaurant were identified as

"Johnny

the Greek"

from Elmwood Park, Illinois, Bill Fishman, and George

Hobson.

Hobson is known as

an expert dice player and

professional cheat who works crap games for Gus Alex.

Another owner of the restaurant was identified as Joe (LNU),

a municipal court bailiff.(U)

(CG 6483-C-TE)

HH 45792 DocId: 32585200 Page 23

---

## Page 24

Alex for a large sum of money and Alex made arrangements

whereby Louie Arger would become a part owner of the

restaurant based on a $30,000 investment by Arger. Hobson

went to Alex after Arger had been a partner for sometime

and protested to Alex that Arger was ruining the business.

Alex agreed that Hobson would be allowed to buy Arger's

interest, that is, $30,000 plus a $5,000 payment which

he was to give to Arger

to buy him out. (u)

(CG 6443-C-TE)

The

source stated that the "outfit", meaning

Gus Alex,

crossroads Restaurant U

= nostal percent of the profits from unde

(CG 6443-C-TE)

The above source advised in February,

1961,

that Eugene. C. James is a vastly overrated individual

regarding his power' in the laundry workers union and the

amount of money he extracts from it. According to the

source, Murray

• Humphreys has direct control regarding

decisions and benefits the most from any monies extracted.

Gus Alex shares in some of the benefits derived from the

union; however, Humphreys has the last word. (U)

(CG 6443-C-TE)

Earl Kies, Manager of Apex Amusement Company

and Deluxe Cigarette

Service, 4246 North Lincoln Avenue,

Chicago, advised on March 1, 1961, that Gus Alex is currently

an émployee of the Ajax Phonograph Company and Deluxe

Cigarette Serwice. He

declined to furnish any further

information concerning Alex and stated that any further

inquiry concerning Alex should be made with Eddie Vogel,

official of these companies. (U)

In February, 1961, a source advised there

has

been a great deal of publicity in Chicago newspapers regarding

the Hilton Hotel chain acquiring the Ambassador East and West

Hotels in the Chicago area.

According to these articles,

Lou Silvers, General Manger for the Croydon Hotel, Eastgate

Hotel, and St. Clair Hotel, will be manager of the Ambassador

East and West. This source stated that Lou Silvers is owned

"lock, stock, and barrell"' by Gus Alex and his associates,

who actually own the

Eastgate and St. Clair Hotels.U

1 " (CG 6443-C-TE)

CONADENTIAN-

HH 45792 DocId: 32585200 Page 24

---

## Page 25

Receser

but probably not lin their names. These individuals got

into the Hilton Hotel chain through Jake Arvey, Sidney

Korshak,

and Henry Crown, in the days when Hilton was

starting to acquire numerous hotels. (v)

~ (CG 6443-C-TE)

A source advised in March, 1961, that the Harvey

Wrecking Company, Chicago, was then owned by Fred and Harvey

Goldberg but was actually controled by the "outfit."

The control dates back to the time to the Goldberg family fender

candy gector,

owned the Wurlitzer Records and

Chicago and in which Jake Gusir "usic shop Company in

had an interest. Since

Gusik's death the Goldberg's interest in this wrecking

company is split among Gus Alex, Murray Humphreys,

and Joe

Logan,

a big bookmaker in the first ward who is possibly

identical with Joe Bagnola.

This source stated that

Logan, Alex, and Humphreys

are alleged to derive a

55 percent interest in the

Harvey Wrecking Company. (4)

(CG 6443-C-TE)

The above source further advised it is his

opinion that Gus Alex derives income from the following

strip joints

located on State and Wabash, Streets in

Chicago:

Crossroads

The Rouge

Eddie Foy's Cabana

Holiday Show Lounge

Alex is also believed to have an interest

in the Brass Rail which was formerly located on Randolph

before it burned down.

The source further advised that

lex formerly owned the Kitten Lounge which is nov

closed u

(CG 6443-C-TE)

A source advised on March 10, 1961, that Gus

Alex and Louis Arger stayed at the King Cole Hotel,

Miami Beach, Florida, over the Christmas Holidays of

1960. Source stated

that while there they used the boat

"Mary the First

which is owned by the National Maintenance

Corporation.fU)

(CG 6443-C-TE)

TAR

₴ 6

I 45792 DocId: 32585200

Page 25

---

## Page 26

For

Information received in 1961, from headquarters of

the Royal Canadian Mountain Police, Ottawa, Canada, disclosed

that according to records of Air France, Montreal, a Mr. Gus,

no other name available; arrived at Dorvel Airport, Dorvel

Quebec, Canada, on Flight 001 at Y p.m. on January 30, 1961.

Records of Air

France did not indicate

if Alex departed Canada

for Detroit, but it ascertained he had

been in possession of

direct passage from Detroit and stopped over in Montreal in

transit. Lost and found records of Air France reveal Alex

had lost a piece of luggage while en route to Canada, and he

left instructions that if the baggage was located, it should

In March, 1961, a source advised that the Duncan

Parking Meter Company which manufactures and maintains parking

meters in Chicago and on a nation-wide basis is controlled by

the "outfit"

, specifically by Gus Alex, Frank ferraro ano

Sidney Korshak. (U

CG 6443-C-TE

The above source stated the aforementioned company

was owned by a Canadian millionaire named Duncan who invented

the parking meter for the company.

He stated that through

Sidney Korshak, Duncan was muscled out of the ownership of

the company several years

ago. He stated the company

is now

fronted for by the "outfit" by

one Jerry Robinson who

formerly

operated a hankbook on Chicago's south side in about 1944.(U)

CG 6443-C-TE

A source advised on April 19, 1961, he was of the

belief that Gus Leibe works on a bonus

arrangement at the

J& J Picnic Grove, a large gambling operation in Will County,

Illinois.

It was the source's opinion that the financial

control of the J& J operation was held by Gus Alex, Francis

Curry, Sam Giancana, Fxank La-Porte ana Rocco Fischetti:

The

source stated this is currently

one of the largest gambling

operations in the Chicago area, U

CG 6446-C

HH 45792 Do0Id:32585200 Page 26

---

## Page 27

For

CONES

SENTIAL

A source advised on April 11, 1961, that Gus Alex

continues /to be the

boss of the "Loop" area of Chicago with

respectlto gambling.

Alex controls all gambling in the Loop

area as well as the near west side and near south side.

Working directly under Alex in the control of gambling in the

Loop area is Louis Briatta, who has five or six offices in the

Loop area, only one of which is in operation at the present time.

One of these offices was located in Room 300 at 180 North

wacker Drive; however, this location

was raided by the Chicago

Police Department on April 7, 1961. (U)

CG 6272-C

The

soufee further advised that every bookmaker

in the Loop area is controlled by Alex, and that each bookmaker

must call in each

bet as it is received and 50 per cent of

the profits or losses on each bet is received by the "outfit."

so an in it 100.

He stated that Briatta's office received bets directly from

some bettors who are well known to Briatta and who frequently

bet considerable sums of money. (U) -

CG 6272-C

In 1961, a source stated that all gambling on

Chicágo's south side is controlled by the hoodlums.

gampling money goes to/Gus Alex and Ralph Pierce. (U)AII

CG 6117-C

Inspector Chris Patsuris, Athens City Police

Department, on May 1, 1961, advised that Gus Alex arrived

in Athens, Greece, on April 4, 1961, via BEA Airlines from

и)

Milan, Italy• Alex was in possession of United states

Passport number 1569555 issued May 13, 1952, at Chicago, Illinois.

Alex departed Athens, Greece, via BEA Airlines on

April 13,

1961, and returned to Athens

on April 16, 1961,

from Rome, Italy. (U)

Steve Brandon, BOAC Office, Detroit, advised that

BOAC Flight arriving Detroit Metropolitan Airport

at 4:40 p.m.

on May

9, 1961, originated at London, England. (V)

'CONFISENTIA"

2 8

HH 45792 DocId:32585200 Page 27

---

## Page 28

Information was received that Gus Alex was thé Nhl

owner of the Town and

Country Restaurant, Chicago, and that

Anthony Smith and his brother 'Ted Smith, were fronting for

Alex in this venture. Anthony Smith was interviewed on

August 20, 1960, and denied Alex's connection with the

Town and Country Restaurant or with his businesses. He

related that he along

with his brother. Ted and James. Docos

are owners of the lown and Country Restaurant, the Copper

Kettle, and that they are major stockholders in the

Imperial Inn.

During this interview Smith acknowledged

he had been plagued by police checking on all his

customers at the Copper Kettle when the establishment

first opened. This took place for about two weeks straight

and the police were reportedly checking as a result of

complaints

that he was serving minors.

Smith related

he did not have Anco Insurance at the

time and about two

weeks later he got a cäll from John D'Arco who asked

him if he was ready to subscribe to Anco Insurance Company.

Smith stated that in order to successfully operate his

'estaurant he then bought anco Insurance and has had n

trouble since. (U

(CG 6443-C-TE)

Throughout the investigation of Gus Alex,

information has been received from numerous sources to

the effect that Alex has financial interests and individuals

fronting for him in the restaurant business in Chicago.

These interests would appear extensive and involve a number

of successful restaurants. Investigation has failed to

develop verification of the actual interest or admission on

ventures. E any individuals fronting for Alex in these

Status of Health

Information was received on July 20, 1961, that

Alex appears to be aging and worrying considerably; however,

continues

dress well and immaculately and to be in good

(PCI Frank La Croix)

COMEDENTIAL.

85

NN 45792 DocId:32585200 Page 28

---

## Page 29

Information

was received during the latter part

of September, 1965, that Gus Alex had returned from the

Mayo Clinic,

Rochester, Minnesota,

connection with prostrate trouble.

after extensive testeoNFID

VINITIAL

The result of

this test, according to the source, was that Alex would

not require an operation at

this/time.V

(CG 6443-C-TE)

Mr. Albin Berens,

Security Officer, Mayo Clinic,

confidentially advised on September 29, 1965,

that Gus

Alex registered at this clinic on September 13, 1965,

and was

physicaldischarged September 14, 1965

He had a general

examination since he had not been examined

since 1959.

On this occasion Alex

nervousness and inability to rest. (bidicated severe

Suzanne Fueger

(Gus Alex's Paramour)

On July 20, 1961, as a result of a surveillance

in the vicinity of Alex's residence at 1150 North Lakeshore

Drive; Chicago, a blonde female was observed by agents

leaving Alex's apartment.

She was identified as Suzanne

Maier. (It is to be noted that Alex was observed in Munich,

Germany, in January, 1961, in company of a German girl by

the name of Ditgard Maier, on several occasions. This

individual's

to redue in castand prior mey, lot yere known

Solomon E. Harrison, owner of the Hamilton Hotel,

was interviewed on

March 2, 1962, and confirmed his acquaintance

with both Helmut and Suzanne Maier, having sponsored them

both for entry to this country. Suzanne Maier changed her

name from Ditgard to Suzanne when she took employment as a

bunny at the Playboy Club.

They were married at about 1957

and Helmut returned from the United States to Munich, Germany,

where they

were married and they both came to the United

States following this event. According to Harrison, he

believed Suzanne met Alex while working at the Playboy Club

and became associated

with him during the latter part of 1960 (v)

36

CONFI

HN 45792 DooId:32585200 Page 29

---

## Page 30

For

The West German Federal Police (BRA) adriAN ANAL

the Munich, Germany Police Department had contacted Helmut

Maier on April 13, 1962, in an effort to solicit information

from him concerning Gus

Alex.

Maier declined to furnish

any information on the basis that he desired to protect

himself from any possible retaliation in the future against

him since his company intends to send him to the United

states in the future al)

CONTENTIAR

3

8

NN 45792 DocId: 32585200

Page 30

---

## Page 31

Political Tie-Ups

Information was received that Judge Joseph Wosik

was backed and placed in his present judgeship through the

efforts and financial backage of Gus Alex.

According to this

source, Wosik was a former referee in traffic court recently

appointed to the judgeship after contributing the necessary

funds to the Democratic organization in Chicago.

opinion of this source that Gus Alex contributed these funds

for Judge Wosik.

Furthermore, according to this source,

Judge Wosik, in the source's opinion, is presently servicing

the

"outfit" as indicated by his recent handling of the traffic

case

against Chicago hoodlum Obbie Frabotta. It is to be noted

the case against Frabotta was

Judge Nosik for lack of evidence. (ughrown out of court by

(CG 6443-C).

Illegal Activities

On September 8, 1962, a meeting was held at Room 207,

Town Hotel, Cicero,

Illinois,

at which the following were in

attendance according to information received by this office: U,

Sam Giancana

GuS

Alex

Joe Aiuppa

Robert Taylor (true name Ansani)

(CG 6512-C-TE)

Information was received that the wife of recently

deceased Ramie Alfervic receives approximately $100 per week

from the Gus Alex

organization.

The Alex organization is

apparently trying to help support Ramie's wife and family

for old times sake inasmuch as Ramie and Alex grew up together

and he had been loyal to Alex and the organization for a

number of years.

HOWEver,

Ramie and Alex were at odds at

the. time of Ramie's death.V)

(CG 6443-C)

In 'September

and hoodlum Leslie kruse fre interested in establishing a

according to a source, Gus Alex

gambling venture in London, England. According to the source,

ENTIAT

39

CONF!

HN 45792 DooId:32585200 Page 31

---

## Page 32

CONF

and are considering sam Rosa as the operator!

alce playlng

(CG 6443-C-TE)

Information was received that pete Gushie is a close

associate of Gus Alex

and James Catuara who is alleged to be

muscle man for Alex's gambling operation on the near south

side of Chicago.(U)

(CG 6543-C-TE)

On January 28, 1966, based on Federal Bureau of

Investigation affadavit a large scale clearinghouse gambling

operation was raided by Lieutenant Frank Nash, Intelligence

Unit, Chicago Police Department.

The occupans sam Regerio

and Ralph Navarro were arrested in connection with a raid in

possession of records and in the process of destroying gambling

records. Clothing in the apartment where this gambling operation.

was located identified Arnold Garris with the operation.

Garris

has been reported by numerous sources to control bookmaking for

Gus Alex. (U)

On February 1, 1966, a source advised that Gus Alex

was extremely upset over the above mentioned gambling

raid

since Arnold, as bookmaking operator, made a stupid mistake.

This was in reference to the clothing found as mentioned above (u)

(CG 6187-C)

Information was received from a source on April 26,

1966, that Frank Mia,

an Italian, is a "hit man" for Gus Alex.(U)

(CG 6911-C)

Travel

During the course of this investigation extensive

information has been

developed

concerning travel abroad to

Europe on the part of Gus Alex. Information was received from

the State Department in effect that a letter written by Mr.

Attorney representing

Gus Alex,

was received by the State Department.

This letter

was dated February 11, 1966, and was addressed

to the Legal

Advisor for Security

and Counsellor Affairs Mr. Fred Smith, J

CANT SENTIAL

10

HH 45792 DooId:32585200 Page 32

---

## Page 33

CONFIRENTIAL

tho group in the domstaire sootion of the restourant.

Shortly

thereatter,

macauer was advised by

bis batatede airl

that

tour of the

individuals.

in chis group were Ales,

Humphreys,

Trans terraco, and Sy doderer .

The hatcheck giza

advised

those neu

have

beon coning do

on an ainoat daily basis for

the past tro or three beeza dod

Chat on Februazy

20, 196L,

Blex,

Ferraro,

and codtroy wore ta for lunch. (U)

Ssass Aur,

Chtcage,

or to pret, losset to sue caras does.

Miltoote, advised on january 12,

that Cus Ales had booted space on Might 963 scheduled

to lenve Now Tork City, Xordella Alrport, ou Jamary 16,

2961, at S:50 p.l. novetop to Geneva, Outtaorland.

The regervation vasade by Ales thile in Mey York sometime

prior to Januory

12, 2061.

BLeS

Darrett said Chat Alex

bad reservations at the Richnond fotel So Geneva,

Snitaerland, for the evonings of January 15ch and 10th,

2962, and in the Bayerehire Hotel

in Funich,

forwary,

on damary 17th and 18tà, 1961.(U)

On Samany 19, 1901,

Wise Derrott enid that

At on

failed to appoar ot Sutas da2 etther at Cotcago or

la New Nock

to pick up his tichets and that Seise Ate

had cancelled he reservatton. (U)

Coneva,

Sultzerind Poliée advised da January 10,

1961, Chat Alca arrived in Conova on Januazy 28, 1961,

and rosided that evening at to lotos bennond da concva.:

on danary our 1b6ty. S4ox deparved deseva by air and arazved

at luntch,

Germany, that same dato.:

tho Coneva Police

determined at a lator date thac nhile in Coneva Alex bad

in contect with ono Snond Coheo,: & Frenco Fattonaties,

cho t0 a zosident of Setaabul, Turkey.

Cohen uns unknona

to the Gonove Poltee and the signifigance of their mootins

was not Booth.

Another individual with pbom be voo fa

touch soile ta Conove

gao one Paul

Miner, the Buperintendent

of a basiness building in Geneva,.

The aignificenco of

this

meeting nos aleo woknown

i to the deneva police: /f(u)

CONFIDENTIAL

45792

DooId: 32585200

Page

331

---

## Page 34

Fur

danuary 26, 1961,

Gonsan Boderal Folico

adviced that Alestad arrivod to Mnnich on January 20, 185%,

nue asayod at tho Botel

Four Zougone.

Se tout this hotel

January

•at, 15610

sáth a somen subsequently identified

• Sater, uho no of that tino dan zoolstan 2a

Munich but who bed toznerty restded 1a Chicago,

Cho, Biso

had a current addreas of 121 Hortbosst 25th Streat,

Mostda.

it apposzod that

Ales and bis coupanion

Sette

Toute 19 &

phling srea. (lu)

the follosing laternation

sas furolshed by

tho Bundestes Sninainat

(Das-Sept German Fadezal Crininal

Poltes)»

and Bao obtained by too DE Cron tho Savarian

Lancosts Lni nalant

(Li coverten Stato Crisinal (PoTics). (2) (4)

Oa Janvary 25, 1001, tho SKA deternaned that

Alon bad been to Anatob Since Januaxy 20, 1081, 900 nag

residias in the

Hotel Ver Jabreosetten, soom 203/2.

de segtasered andes

tas

i sang of Sus Alaxa

describad

bory April Ie

1916,

at

Chicago, 711inasa. (Y) K)

about, 13:00 ogeg on Janunay

:84p4

3901, Alea

rent to Che

modes Als office at Mmbor 5, Uanintliansplate

in Snatch nod there bad on pizzine tickod omdersou to

Aл2 Srance 2a

Municho

A chis Inter airline be bookes

singlo firat-class pagango for-a flight leaving bunioh

January 30,

1961, a6 0100 9-00%

Do arrive

• Pozda, France

at 0105 pra., the gone date, and alas on Cho sene day

from Parto st 0:20 polo on route to Montreat, Caande,

to arrivo 7130 D-90

•(all tines Local time)

SC 9480

boobod recervatione to teavo Boatroal for Detaois& trelv

Ales departed from the Botel Jahreszetten

unexpectedly and without giving anton nobico on Jonunny 35,

1962

Leaving the botel, be picted up a blond

soman deseribod as pell decased and about

23 to 26 yoTe

of ag0.

it the ear rental, from Colbottator Union 10, sac

learnod tant Alon bad been toconmended to this firt by

on meet totos tended Some, So Telen Any

81

COM DENTAL

45792

DocId: 32585200

Page 34

---

## Page 35

Fur.

Nes Toris, New York,

aho

ta a businese tetend of the annager

ot the tantel

• 1130,

in. Bilabergor.

When pácking up a

car on Jamary

1001,

Aick indicated he would travel

to Innsbrack: and

Etcabuehol,

aunteta,

and sould return

the car by January 20, 1561.

414)

CONFIDENTIAD

Januaxy: 30, 1902, Alex atayed at the

Gayerischer Hot shere he weed Boon 30.

Ho chected

thie hotel on thc morning of January 37, 1961• (P(4)

After leaving the above hotel, Alen checked

into tho Hotel Sooningshod On Harisplate in Munich, Staytig

here until he loft Annich on Januaxy 30, 1961

to Tanving he nade a redervation through Air Trence for

• TOON 98

the Hotel Rits Carlton in Montecal, Cangéa,

fos

the nigut

of Januazy 30, 1063,

No wao scen oft

at the alzport by Ditgard taler.

She vas reported aS boing

marated to

Helmat Nafor and so heve

resided at

North Avonue, Chicago,

69

31l2aotS.

Bernard Getchingen,

Banager, Plasa Motel,

C9 Morto Arenue, Chiengo,

Mator chocked ont of that hotel on December 15, 2959. 04)

A coures ndviced ta February of 1001, that

11 or 10 yoace ago tuo Andtviduala

by the nago

Altman (phonetto) and Lillianthall (phonetse) ounod

the St. Clair and tastento Motol, Chiego, linots.

Source

Statod

thope individuale bore killed in a airplane

C0a81

and that

the corporatione ovaing

the hotele were pinced in

ecootvership.

A Short time later Bidney Morebels Attorney,

at 136 Morta Lasale,

Chicago,

handled logal arzangemente

thon Cun Alsa sao lisank Jerrazo

Javented 3850000 and $160,000,

roepectivels in both hotela. (U)

The above aparce also advieed it uns his understanding

that

Alon and forsazo onnod: the drugetore located la the lobby

of the Croydon Botel,

Calcago.

The source toted that an

individuals namod Gold on Goldbers sas utilized by

Ales

and

(Ferraro as a Atront" in

the operation of this dragsteredU)

B B

CONEY

DENTIAL

45792

DooId: 32585200

Page

351

---

## Page 36

Frame

Information receivod in 1961, from boadquarters of

the Royal Canadian Mountain Police, Ottawa, Canada, disclosod

that according to records of Air France, Montreal, 2 Mr. Gus,

no other name available, arrived at Dorvel Airport, Dorvel

Quebec, Canada, on Flight 001 at 7 p.n. on January

30, 1961.

Records of A1r

France did not indicate 12 Alex departed Canada

for Detroit,

but it ascertained he had been in possesaion of

direct passage from Detroit and stopped over in Montreal in

transit.

Lost and found recorde of Air France reveal Alex

had lost a piece of

luggage wile en route to canada,

and he

left instructions that at the baggage was located; it should

be forwarded

to Gus Ales, 9353 South Spaulding, Evergreen Park,

Illinois,

Parking Meter Company which manufactures and maintains parking

Moto counT which

a source advised that the Duncan

meters in Chicago and

on a nation-wide basis is controlled by

the "outfit"

, specifically by Gus Alex, Frank Ferraro and

Sidney Korshak. (U)

The above source stated the aforementioned company

owned by a Canadian millionaire naned Duncan who invented

the parking noter for the company.

He stated that through

Sidney Korshak,

Duncan was muscled out of the ownership of

the company

several

years ago.

He stated the company is now

fronted for by the "outfit" by

one very hobinson who tormerty

- operated a bankbook on Chicago's south side in about 1944. /U)

A

source advised on April 19, 1961, ho was of the

bellel that Gus Loibe works on a bonus arrangenent at the

J& I Picnic Grove, a large gambling operation in Will County,

1111001S-

It was the source's opinion that the financial

control of the J& j operation was held by Gus Alex, Francis

Curry, san Glancana, Trans la porte and nosco fischetti.

source stated this is currently one of the largeat gambling

operations in the Chicago area. (U)

STING

99040999

45792 DocId: 32585200 Page 36

---

## Page 37

For

A source advised on April 1l, 1961,

that Gue Alex

continues to be the boss of the "Loop"

ares of Chicago with

respect to gambling.

Alex controls all gambling in the Loop

area as well as the

near west side and near 'south side.

Working directly under Alex in the control of gambling

in the

Loop area is Louis Briatta, who has five on six officos in the

hoop area, only ond of which is in operation at the present time.

One of

these offices was located in Room 300 at 180 North

Wacker Drive; bowever, this

location was raided by the Chicago

Police

The source further advised that every bookmaker

in the loop area is controlled by Alex, and that each boolmaker

must call in oach bet as it is received and 50 per cent of

the profits or lossos on each bet is recoived by the "outfit."

Ho stated that Briatta's office received bote directly fron

some bettore who are well known to Briatta and who irequently

ket considerable suns of money. U

In 1961, a souzce stated that all sambling on

Chicago's south side is controlied by the hoodlums.

gambling monoy soco to Gus Alos and Maiph Pierce. (1) 411

Inspector Chrio Patsuris,

Athens City Police

Department, on Hay 4,

1901, advised that Gus Alex arrived

in Athens, Greece, on April 4, 1961, VID BEA AIrLInES IrON

Milan, Italy:

Alas was in possession of United States

Passport number 1669555 issued May 13, 1952, at Chicago, Illinois.

Alex departed Athens, Greece, via BEA Airlines on

Apzil 13,

1901, and

from Rome

Itniss (loturned to Atons on April 16, 1061,

Steve Brandon, Bie oriice,

Detroit, advised that

BOAC Fllcht arriving Detrolt Metropolitan Alxport.

at 2:45 p.0,

00 Way 9, 1961, originated at London, England, (U)

28

45792

DooId: 32585200

Page 37

---

## Page 38

the Munich, dermany

Police

• Department had contacted Helmut

Maier on April 13, 1962, in an elfort to golfeit information

from him concerning Gus Alex.

Mater declined to furnish

any information on the basis that he desired to protect

himself from any poscible retaliation in the future against

h&t

since his company

States in the future. (g(U)

intends to send him to the United

CONFID

NTIAL

3

10904.100241

NW 45792 DooId: 32585200

Page

38

---

## Page 39

Alex was earning his salary and directed

I that Alex

be put on

to show he could produce. (U)

Probatin with treetone that he had 60 or 80 days in whOvElyNA

Source continued by stating that Mr. Windham subsequently

ordered that a letter be directed to Alex in the midare

1958, advising him his services were being terminated. (Ugf June,

(James C. Windham

Milwaukee, Wisc:] President, Blatz Brewing CO•s

Mr. La Verne Duffy, Chief Investigator, Chicago Office

of the Senate Select Committee on Improper Activities in the

Labor and Management Field, advised on September 15, 1958, that

one of his investigators in reviewing income tax returns for

Alex noted that in 1955

and in 1955

and 1956

JFK Law 11(a)

A Confidential source advised that records of the

Whitehall Club, 105 East Delaware Street, Chicago,

as of October 20,

1958, contained an application for membership by

Alex at which

time

Alex indicated he was employed as Sales

• for Mid-state•

Motors, Inc.; 3535 North Ashland Avenue, Chicago. (U)

(Sidney M. Keller, Owner-Manager, Whitehall Club)

On February 20, 1958, Karl Kies, Operation Manager,

De Luxe Cigarette Service Corporation, advised De Luxe Cigarette

Service was originally known ás the Apex Cigarette Service, Inc.

and later changed to Apex Amusement Corporation. Kies stated

this corporation is controlled by D. J. Mahoney,

President;

William Vogel, Vice President; and Edward Vogel, Secretary -

Treasurer.

Mr. Kies exhibited company records which reflected

that the persons who generally signed the company checks were

William Vogel and Julius Zimberoff. It was noted that the name

holder ence ed a these records either as a stock-

JFK Law 10(a)2

On March 18, 1959,

furnished the following

information as the result of a subpoena

issued by a Chicago

Federal Grand Jury: V)

REVIEWED BY BUJFK TASK FORCE 4 -

ON

"1658 de

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

HH 15792 DocId:32585200 Page 39

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 40

RE:

SAM BATTAGLIA

James Mullane is the brother-in-law of Vincent

"The Saint" Inserro, syndicate executioneer and muscleman.

Inserro drives this car

and was personally observed driving

it on the above date. (U)

Rocco Salvatore is the chauffeur-bodyguard of Sam

oversees his gambling enterprises in the

• Melrose

ark area. (U

Anthony Cardamone is a relative of William

"Potatoes" Daddano and is a partner with Daddano's son,

William, Jr., in

the operation of the Northern Illinois

Music Company. (U

Tony Panzica is a Chicago Heights, Illinois hoodlum

and is related

to Dominic Panzica, a hoodlum from Milwaukee,

Wisconsin. (U

John P. Zito is a Melrose Park gambling figure

who was arrested

at Battaglia's Casa Madrid as one of the

keepers.

He has been active in Battaglia's Melrose Park

gambling locations for many years. U

Antoinette Caifano is believed to be a relative

of Marshall Caifano. (U)

During August, 1964, a confidential source advised

that Lewis C. Barbe said that Sam Battaglia's brother had

insured one or more restaurants through Barbe, advising Barbe

that the restaurants would be destroyed by fire. Following

arson, Battaglia signed false names to insurance checks.(U)

(PCI LEWIS C. BARBE)

=7 -

HH 45792

DocId: 32585200

Page 40

---

## Page 41

RE: SAM BATTAGLIA

A confidential source advised on February 20,

1962, that Sam Battaglia is considered the most sinister

and menacing of the "young bloods'" who are replacing

Tony Accardo and Rocco DeGrazio, heirs of the late Al

Capone.

He reportedly plans executions for the syndicate:

This source indicated that if and when Tony Accardo is

sent to prison for income tax evasion,

then it is considered

Battaglia will

be an assistant to Sam

"Mooney" Giancana

who will reportedly take over control of the syndicate

in the Chicago area.

Battaglia controls all gambling in

Melrose Park, Elmwood Park,

Bellwood, Stone Park, Franklin

Park, and Schiller Park, Illinois. He and Sam Giancana

control the policy on the west side of Chicago. (U

(Sergeant JOHN MARTIN, Intelligence

Unit, Chicago Police Department)

On August 28, 1963, Detective Howard Wiegand

advised that the weekly Saturday evening meeting at

Battaglia's residence which took place throughout 1962

was continuing as of August, 1963.

The meeting was

attended by the

same group consisting of Albert Fraboutta,

Marshall Caifano, Phil Alderisio, Irwin Weiner, and Rocco

Salvatore. (u)

• On August 19, 1963, a confidential source advised

that Jack Cerone and Joe Gagliano took a trip on August 12,

1963, to some place located north of Milwaukee, Wisconsin,

to contact Sam Battaglia.

The purpose of the trip was to

discuss with Battaglia the possibility of his taking over

as head of the Chicago hoodlum element, replacing Sam

Giancana. (U)

(CG 5951-C)

A confidential source advised on October 21, 1963,

that Battaglia and his west side group receive over half

the proceeds from fraudulent insurance claims in'Chicago.

These claims result from insuring fictitious, non-existent

or over evaluated items which, after issuance of the insurance

policy, are stolen on

a pre-arranged basis. Proceeds from

these

insurance swindles are then utilized to pay off the

men

who set up the swindle and those who perform the actual

8

1H 45792 DocId:32585200 Page 41

---

## Page 42

RE: SAM BATTAGLIA • •

theft.

At least half of the proceeds from each swindle

ends up in the pocket of Battaglia andhis immediate

associates, more commonly. known as the "vest side group". Ul

(PCI LEWIS C. BARBE)

A confidential source advised on October 21,

1963, that sid Sheridan, Local Chicago Contractor, is

on "juice" to Battaglia.

Battaglia sold Sheridan two

thoroughbred horses which Sheridan must board at Battaglia's

horse farm in Hampshire, Illinois. Battaglia covers his

"juice loan business" by selling horses of questionable

value to recepients of "juice" loans and extracting

enormous sums from these purchasers. U,

(PCI LEWIS C. BARBE)

A confidential source advised during April,

1964, that Sam Battaglia had attended a wedding of leo

Rugendorf's child at the Drake Hotel, Chicago, on

December 21, 1963.

thers attending this wedding

ccording to this source, were:

Felix Alderisio,

Irwin Weiner,

Mel Lewis,

Herbert Nortell,

James Allegretti,

Larry Rosenberg,

Allen Rosenberg,

Sidney Sheridan, owner of Sheridan Electric Company;

Frank Schweihs, a well known thief; and

Tony Panzica,

also a well known thief.

(CG 6588-C-TE)

On June 15, 1964, a confidential source advised

special police officer from Northlake, Illinois.

Norbert

has a brother who full full-time officer with the Northlake

Police Department.

(CG 6670-C)

9

HH 45792

DocId: 32585200

Page 42

---

## Page 43

RE: SAM BATTAGLIA

On July 21, 1964, a confidential source advised

that Sam Battaglia had recently received some salvage

lumber and shipped building bricks from an unknown source

in Joliet, Illinois.

On one occasion Battaglia, through

personal charge of the work detail, secured this salvage

material.

The work detail was

comprised of minor hoodlums

in the Chicago area.

On occasion 20 to 30 minor hoodlums

farm on the weekend. This source

learned that Tony Panzica had stolen a $90,000 steam

shovel some years ago in order to dig a swimming pool.

to Battaglia's farm

(CG 6670-C)

On December 7, 1964, Captain Lewis Case, Oak

Park Police Department, advised that within the past

week he had stopped and spoken with Joseph Gagliano

who had just left the residence of Sam Battaglia. (U)

Records of the Illinois Bell Telephone

Company revealed that from March to September, 1964,

telephone calls were made from telephone number 695-1232

and telephone number 471-4734 at Sam Battaglia's Free

Meadows Farm, Hampshire,

to numerous telephone

numbers including the following: (U

Telephone number BE 7-1222 which was subscribed

to by Alfred J. Cilella, 1714 North Sayre, Chicago,

Cook County Circuit Court Judge who died during the fall

of 1964.

Telephone number SA 2-9131 which was subscribed

to by Harrison Court Cleaners, 2905 West Harrison,

which was reportedly a hand book operated by one franceto U

A confidential source advised during January,

1965, that Sam Battaglia had now assumed active

in running organized crime in the Chicago area. (Usadership

(CG 6890-C-TE)

26, 1965, a confidential source advised

that a meeting takes place at the residence of Paul Ricca

in River Forest

•#linois, every Sunday afternoon. Five

1 0

NH: 45792 DocId:32585200 Page 43

---

## Page 44

RE: SAM BATTAGLIA

individuals who the source considers the five fingers of -

the "black hand" meet there. These individuals are Paul

Ricca, Sam

Battastia (arcana, Anthony Accarto, San Louis, and Sam

(CG 6884-PC)

Records of the Illinois Bell Telephone Company,

Chicago, Illinois, revealed that on April 1, 1965, and

May 23, 1965, telephone calls were made to telephone

number

OW 5-1232 located at Battaglia's Free Meadows Farm

from telephone number 678-8520 at Schiller Park, Illinois,

which is the telephone number known to be

Kalivoda, Battaglia's alleged mistress. (Uysed by Darlene'

A confidential source advised on June 29, 1965,

Sam Battaglia was currently handling the

affairs of

Sam Giancana during Giancana's confinement and has assumed

the roll of top leader in Chicago.

This has angered Jack

absence. Ufeels he should be the top man in Glancana's

(CG 6792-PC)

On June 22, 1965, a vehicle registered to

Nicholas J. Balsamo,

934 Columbian, Oak Park, Illinois,

was observed leaving Battaglia's residence.

Nicholas J.

Balsamo (Dr.) is reportedly on the Board of Directors of

the Maywood

Proviso Bank, Maywood, Illinois. (U)

Records of the Illinois Bell Telephone Company

revealed that from October, 1964, to March, 1965, telephone

calls were made from telephone number VI8-2320 located at

Battaglia's Oak Park residence

to telephone numbers

subscribed to by Peter Sarno in North Bay, Florida, and

Marie Capezio in Miami, Florida. (V)

Capezio is apparently the widow of decease

crime syndicate boss Anthony

"Tough Tony" Capezio. (u)

11

IW 45792 DocId:32585200 Page 11

---

## Page 45

RE:

SAM BATTAGLIA

Also called from this number was telephone

number 356-3580 at Minocqua, Wisconsin, which is subscribed

to by one Mike J. Marchese.

Marchese is from River forest,

Illinois,

and is known in criminal circles as Ginko.

He

is financially interested in the Harlem-Irving shopping

plaza and has a long record of association with well

snown hoodlums and is allegedly involved

gambling activities in the chicago area. (Ullegal

Between October, 1964, and March, 1965, numerous

telephone calls were made from

Battaglia's Free Meadows

Farm to the Chicago area (U)

During October, 1965, a confidential source

advised that Lou Verive, a member of the?Board of Directors

of Marshall Savings and Loan Association, had remarked that

he goes out to "Teets" Battaglia's farm every day and that

is very close to this, individual. This source advised

he

that Marshall Savings and Loan Association and a firm

called Oakhurst Land Corporation are "outtit connected". (u)

(PCI EZEKIEL LUCERO)

A confidential source advised during August,

1965, that on the night of August 2, 1965, there was

meeting at the Sahara North Motel attended by, Sam Battaglia,

William Daddano, an individual referred to as Al, last

name unknown, and two unknown individuals from New York

city. (v)

(CG 6756-C)

On July 29, 1965, a confidential source advised

that Sam Battaglia supposedly has/ a share of the ownership

with Felix Alderisio, Jack Cerone,

and Joe

(CG 6690-PC)

On August 26, 1965, a vehicle registered to

Marie Capezio, 1048 North Ashland, River Forest, Illinois,

was observed parked in front of Battaglia's residence. (U)

12

HH 45792 DocId:32585200 Page 45

---

## Page 46

RE: SAM BATTAGLIA

A confidential source advised during November,

Sam Battaglia, Ben Fillichio, and Butch Blasi.

This was a

closed door meeting. (o)

(CG 6756-C)

Records of the Illinois Bell Telephone Company

revealed that between March, 1965, and August, 1965,

numerous telephone calls were made from subject's Free

Meadows

Farm, one of which was to the Metropolitan Sanitary

District Of

Greater Chicago, 100 East Ohio, Chicago,

Illinois.(U)

A confidential source advised on February 15, 1966,

that there can be little doubt that Sam Battaglia functions

as leadersof organized crime in Chicago during the

incarceration of Sam Giancana. He utilizes Felix Alderisio

as "operating manager" of the Chicago group by assigning

him most of the tasks requiring possible exposure to law

enforcement agencies.

Alderisio reportedly meets with

Battaglia

his Oak Park, Illinois, residence almost every

(CG 6564-₽C)

Observations by Special Agents of the FBI during.

89a requent visitor to atrai as oak park residence ugado

A confidential source advised during January,

1966, that according to Rocco DeGrazio, Chief of Police,

Anthony Iosco of Melrose

Park had taken an oath before

Sam Battaglia and "Babe" Serpico, a Melrose Park political

figure, to advise DeGrazio when certain arrests were planned..

IOSCO

was "outfit" approved for the job of Chief of Police.(U)

(CG 6890-C-TE)

13

HN 45792 DoOId:32585200

Page 16

---

## Page 47

RE: SAM BATTAGLIA

Between March, 1965, and August, 1965, numerous

telephone calls were made from Battaglia's Free Meadows

Farm.

Among the numbers called was the telephone located

at the residence of Felix Alderisio in Riverside, Illinois.(U)

On March 9, 1966, investigation at the lown

and Country Apartments located on Calvin Lane in Schiller

Park revealed that the project there was managed by

Carl Verive at one time, brother of Louis Verive, and that

Sam Battaglia had

personally visited the project

during

the fall of 1965 (U)

During March, 1966, a confidential source

advised that on March 16, 1966, Sam Battaglia and Ben

Fillichio held a meeting at the

residence of Anthony

Accardo in River Forest, Illinois.

the source was unable

to state the nature or purpose of the meeting. (U)

(CG 6913-PC)

During May, 1966, a confidential source advised

that Captain Lewis R. Case

had been forced to retire

from the Oak Park Police Department because over the

past few years hehhad become more and more deeply involved

with Battaglia and his family and during 1965 Case was

observed in Miami

Florida, dining with the wife of

Sam Battaglia. (U)

(FREMONT NESTOR, Chief

of Police, Oak

Park, Illinois)

14

HH 45792

DooId: 32585200

Page 47

---

## Page 48

at the time of the above observation telet was sitting

with "Cowboy" Mirro. (V)

According to confidential source English while spending

considerable time in Florida during January, February, March and

early April, 1965, was allegedly working on

l a caribbean gambling

deal. (U)

LA 4476-C

The following toll calls were charged to telephone numbers

278-8300, 278-8301, 278-8302 and 278-8303, which numbers are

assigned to the Lormar Distributing Company, Inc., 2311 North

Western Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. These tolls were during the

years 1964 and

1965.

Additional toll calls were charged to

telephone number 342-9172, also during 1964 and 1965 and this

telephone number is assigned to B & D Acceptance Corporation, 2311

North Western Avenue, Chicago, Illinois: V)

BA 5-9899

Aberdeen, South Dakota

This number is listed to The Cashbah, 15 Sixth

Avenue, Southwest, Aberdeen, South, Dakota,

which is a 3.2

parlor

beer

and a local hangout for college kids.(U

The owner and manager of this bar is William L. Lemler,

214 Fourth Avenue, Southeast, Aberdeen, South Dakota, who is

known in Aberdeen

as a local

small-time gambler. He has,

on

occasion, had pinball and slot machines in the Cashbah.(U)

FE 3-2181

Minneapolis, Minnesota

linneapolis,

is listed to the Radisson Hotgh,

Inquiry at the Radisson Hotel management on Juner

21, 1965, failed to reflect a registration of

anyone by the name

Mrs. Hisher on or about November, 1964. (U)

-8-

PRANDOEMELN

HW 45792 DocId: 32585200 Page 18

---

## Page 49

Downes, "I think the 'G' is here". Downes was them heard to tell

English,. "Why don't you and your boys make yourseives Scarce"

where-

upon Charles English departed from Downes' company and neither he

nor his brother Sam, Sam Rosa

during the remaining races. (U

or Don Angelini, were observed again

Prior to overhearing the above conversation, Rosa was

observed to depart from the company of the Englishes and go to the

upper clubhouse area.. In the clubhouse' area he walked up to Frank

Ferraro, Where Ferraro was observed making

selections from a

scratch

sheet in the possession of Rosa. (U)

It should be noted on August 23, 1963, 15 arrests were

made at the track by Internal Revenue Service acting on information

furnished by the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investiga-

tion.

Among these arrests were two well known lieutenants of

Charles English, William Joseph Russo and Joseph Accardi. Russo

served a six month sentence at the Federal Penitentiary, Sanstone,

Minnesota in 1965. Accardi served a sentence of approximately two

months at Wheaton

• County Jail in connection with the a bove.

Don

Angelini also arrested, received a $2,500 fine and 60 days in jail (U)

On September 19, 1962, Bureau Agents observed Don Angelini

in Lormar Distributing Company,

Incorporated, 2311 North Western

Avenue, in the company of Charles English. /U

A confidential source-advised observing Charles English

in the parking lot of Sportsman Park Race

during the early

summer, 1963.

The car (in which English was in

source, was registered to A. C. Mc Clurg and Company• /U

CG 6663-0

Dun and Bradstreet reflect from a report dated September

18, 1963, that the president of this company is Phillip Weisman.

This business was founded on August 23, 1844. This report also

reflects that this company came under the present oricers in

August, 1961. Weisman, according to the report, (is interested in

coin operated phonograph business for many years. (u

- 14 -

HH 45792

DooId: 32585200

Page 49

---

## Page 50

The Following Pertains

to Rimrock Ranch

This ranch, according to a confidential source, belongs

_their names are

CG 6575-C-TE

The owners of record at the present time are as follows:

317 Kennedy,

Joe English, brother of Charles and Sam

English, who resides in Phoenix;

Sam De Fily;

Tom Santora, Chicago attorney who is the

son-in-law

of Charles English and resides

at English's residence, 1131 Lathrop, River

Forest, Illinois; and himself, Browning.

Browning stated most of the individuals mentioned above

were in Phoenix;

Arizona during the weekend of November 24, 1962,

1962•

He said they spent most of their time

at the ranch and they also made a trip to Tucson, Arizona, where

they contacted the Arizona Title Company. Browning said that

Sam English was the person who told him.

about the ranch and that

it was a good place to invest money. (U)

Browning advised that'

as far as he knew, Chuck English

had no interest in the ranch. U

Browning advised that at the

present time, he owned

Kral's Kiddie Korner, 4338 West North

Avenue, and George's Store

for Men, 1550 West 43rd Street./V)

- 18 -

HH 45792

DooId: 32585200 Page 50

---

## Page 51

WEE RONT A

Browning at this time also advised that he was a

Committeeman in the 29th Ward of Chicago, and that he resides

at 1907 south Austin Boulevard, Cicero, Illinois. U,

(A confidential source advised that on the weekend of

November 24-25, 1962

vore at the ranch). (ufrorning, De Fily, Santora and J0e English

CG 6575-C-TE

On November 28, 1962, Russell D. Gribbon, Manager, Safari

Motel, scottsaale, Arizona, identified a photograph of sam Englist

as being identical to the person who registered under the name Joe

English. Also, the following individuals had resided in Rooms

238 and

239 at

the above motel: U)

Mike Sabitino

Marvin Browning

Tom Santora

"Joe English"

He said that they had originally registered as "Flash

Distributors" without giving their names; however, when pressed

for their names, the above names were given. (U)

On January 3, 1963, a confidential source advised that

Sam Englishhad instructed that Marvin Browning's name should be

into to establa, han done wear no a lot hotel, but used

A confidential source advised on February 14, 1963;

that sam English had told him that as of now, they have 9340,00

invested in the Rimrock Ranch. According to

this source, English

said that his brother, Joe English, has $15,000 invested

and that

the remaining amount is divided up

between Chuck English, Marvin

Browning and himself (Sam English). V

CONCAL

• 19

1H 45792

DooId: 32585200

Page 51

---

## Page 52

On December 18, 1962, a confidential sturde davised

had invited Butch English and his wife to dinner on

December 41, 1904.

that

when

owner af a 12-flat apartment building at 4042-16 Wilcox Street. (u)

According to a confidential source Browning is the

On May 7, 1963, Bureau Agents surveilled Sam English from.

3340 West Jackson Boulevard to Browning's business, 4338 West

North Avenue.

Shortly thereafter, English, Browning and an unknown

female and male were observed standing in front of the above location.

The unknown male and female departed and entered an automobile

registered to George Mastores, 7215 West Foster, Harwood Heights,

Illinois. (It should be noted

that Mastores is

a circulation manager

for the "Chicago Sun-Times" newspaper, has visited Rimrock Ranch

on occasion, and at the present time is reportedly operating the

Fifth Jack Snack Shop, 3338 West Fifth Avenue, which is adjacent

to the Filth Jack Grill, 3340 West Jackson Boulevard): (U)

• On October 5, 1963, a confidential source advised that

Sam English spends a considerable amount of time with George Vydra

at Vydra's

This same source

advised that Sam Englishlis in frequent contact with Marvin

Browning, Bernard Neistein, Mario De stefan

and an individual

believed

-..

CG 6575-C-TE

• On December 24, 1963, an investigator for the Securities

Division, Arizona Corporation Commission, Phoenix Arizona, furnished

a Bureau Agent a copy of Certificate of Incorporation for Rimrock

Ranch, Inc., Number 63546, dated October 25, 1963• The names of

the incorporators are as follows

Marvin H. Browning, 1907. South Austin

Boulevard, Cicero,

Illinois;

Joseph English, 3907 East Yale,

Phoenix, Arizona

Sam M. English, 1800 South Austin

Boulevard, Cicero

Lawful Agent: Harold Goldman, Attorney-at-Law.:

405 Mayer Central Boulevard, Phoenix, Arizonall

- 20 -

HH 45792 DocId: 32585200 Page 52

---

## Page 53

On January 10, 1964, a confidential source advised that

Sam and

Joe English, Marvin Browning and Len Russo had visited

Rimrock Ranch. (U

Phoenix PCI John Smithson

The following information relates to a trip that Sam

English and his wife made with Marvin Browning and his wife during

October and early November, 1963•

The records of the Caravan Inn,

3323 East Van Buren, Phoenix, Arizona, reflected the following

guest registrations: (U)

Mr. and Mrs. Sam English, 1800 South Austin

Mr, and Mrs. Browning and Mr. and Mrs. English

(party of four), 1800 South Austin Boulevard,

Berwyn, Illinois, checked in on October 21,

1963 and checked out on October 24, 1963•

Mr. and Mrs. Browning and Mr. and Mrs. English

party of four), 1907 South Austin Boulevard,

Cicero, Illinois, checked in on October 50,

1963, and checked out November 1, 1963.

The above information can only be produced on the

issuance of a subpoena duces tecum directed to Robert Riley,

General Manager, Caravan Inn, Phoenix Arizona. (V)

On April 27, 1964, representatives of the Phoenix Police

Department, advised a

Bureau Agent that they had received notifi-

cation from an employee of the Kon Tiki Motel, Phoenix, indicating

Sam English and Marvin Brown returned to that

motel on

Friday

afternoon and checked out of the motel at approximately 4:30 PM,

Saturday, April 25, 1964. (U)

On May 13, 1964, Judd Herberger, Owner, Lake Montezuma;

Arizona, advised an article had appeared in the

"Weekly Gazette"

Phoenix,

Arizona, on May 5, 1964, listing the articles of incorpora-

tion for Lake Montezuma Beach, Inc., with the following persons

as incorporators: (U)

- 21 -

201M HOLISTE

HH 45792 DöcId: 32585200 Page 53

---

## Page 54

For

Pages 320-323 in Book 325, set forth amspecial Warrant

Deed dated May 5, 1964, wherein that property legally described but

generally known as the Rimrock Ranch, was conveyed from William T.

O'Brien, Ralph E. Graham and Rosemary Graham to Joseph and Elizabeth

English

with Internal Revenue Stamps thereon in the amount of

$250.25 with these stamps having a value of $1.10 per thousand lU)

Joseph English, as President, and Marvin Browning, secretary, Rimrock

ranch, Inc., convey that property, legally described, generally

known

as the Rimrock Ranch, to Lake Montezuma Beach, InC•, this

being May 5, 1964. (V)

Pages 331-337, book 325, sets

Mortgage which starts out as follows: (U)forth in full a Realty

That Lake Montezuma Beach, Inc., an Arizona corporation,

mortgagor, for an in consideration of $205,000 paid by southland

Management, Ltd., a Manitoba, Canada, corporation, mortgagee, has

granted, sold and conveyed and by these presents does grant, sell

and convey unto the said Southland Management, Ltd., all those

certain parcels of real property in the county of Yavapai, state of

Arizona as follows:

(Legal description of Rimrock Ranch follows) •

All signed by Marvin Browning, President, and David Simkin, Secretary,

The Winnipeg Police Department, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada,

on July 1, 1964,

advised they had no information in

identifiable with the above captioned individuals. W

On July 1, 1964, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Detach-

ment, Winnipeg, Canada,

failed to

reflect any information identifiable

with

the above

two individuals. W

On December 4, 1964, Bureau Agents of the Los Angeles

Office, observed Robert Frank Freedman meeting Gilbert Lee Beckley

in the

National Airlines Terminal, Los Angeles International Airport,

in the company of a white male tentatively identifled as benjamir

Jatskin from Canada. V,

Freedman is a close associate of Beckley,

and Beckley is a

well known gambler. Freedman is also an active gambler. ( An active

investigation is being conducted by the Los Angeles

Office concerning

Freedman under the Interstate Gambling Statute.

U)

-23 =

NH 45792 DocId:32585200 Page, 54

---

## Page 55

A Los Angeles confidential source advise vanuary,

1965, having heard a rumor that Hatskin of Canada was allegedly to

have

been one of the parties in a recent deal with individuals who

reportedly had underworld connections in the purchase of a substant-

ial piece of real estate at an unknown location in arizona.

(Undoubtedly referring to Rimrock Ranch). lU

LA 4476-C

Source also advised that Hatskin was founding an unknown

vending

Machine company and an unknown loan company for this same

group of individuals in Chicago. Source was unable to identify the

members of this group. (Undoubtedly referring to the English

Brothers and the unknown loan company could possibly be the

B&D

Acceptance Company, 2311 North Western Avenue, Chicago) • (U)

Same source also advised in January, 1965, that Hatskin

and Gilbert Beckley and other individuals were considering taking

over and operating the New Frontier Hotel, Las

Vegas, NevadaU

On February 16, 1965, Marvin Browning was contacted at

his business, George's Store for Men, 1550 West 43rd Street, Chicago,

Illinois, by Special Agent Eugene I. Sather. Browning at the time

was not too cooperative but did advise in regard to Rimrock Ranch

that he would "take fifty cents on the dollar that he had now

invested in the Ranch".

He also stated that he is the only one

from Chicago who had actually invested any "real money in the

Ranch".

Browning indicated that he had been led to believe that

Sam English had part money in the Ranch but actually had not.

Also

that he is really sorry that he became involved in the Ranch

and

that the bad publicity the Ranch has received as

their chances of making a profit on the Ranch.

really heated

Legitimate Business Involving

Charles English

overed

It should be noted that Charles English's main employment

is and has been considered for a number of years to be the Lormar

Distributing Company, Inc., 2311 North Western Avenue, Chicago,

Illinois.

In-this regard

Charles English since Samuel

Giancana

was

incarcerated after refusing to testify before the Federal Grand

Ju's in toe observed at this company nearly on a datlytasia when

- 24 -

HH 45792

DooId: 32585200 Page 55

---

## Page 56

-1p 11

B & D Acceptance Company

2311 North Western

• Avenue

Chicago, Illinois

It should be noted that the address above is also the

location

for Lormar Distributing Company, Inc., a company owned

and operated by Charles English. The acceptance company, according

-.+-

to Dunand Bradstreet, is a partnership of three women, Roselia Thomp-

son, Dorothy Worthman

and Estelle Dionisio U)

A confidential

obtained a loon ten in bure on thou repus englanDs

M. S. Distributing Company

Chicago, Illinois

Vic Farachi (phonetic), General Manager of above company,

advised a confidential source that Charles English desired 15 per

would allow

confidential source refused to pay and as

' a result no records were

sold. (V)

CG 6575-C-TE

Jane Darwyn

According to a confidential source, Charles English made

arrangements with Manny.

Skar for Darwyn to appear at the Sahara Inn

in September, 1962. (U)

CG 6575-C-TE

Limousine, Service to Chicago Area Race Tracks

A confidential source advised that the above service is

Brothers. (e Joseph Bellino, Westchester, Illinois, for the English

CG 6512-C-TE

- 25 .

HN 45792 DocId:32585200 Page 56

---

## Page 57

Records Unlimited, Milwaukee, Wisconsin

This company, according to a confidentiahm

source, is owned

by Charles English and operated for him by William Roche, who is a

brother-in-law of William Mc Guire who formerly was interested in

the Lormar Company when

nonevel Boulevard. (ule tara nant into business on eat

CG 6575-C-TE

E & E Amusement Company

3214 West Augusta

Chicago, Illinois Boulevard

According to confidential source this jukebox company is

owned by the inglishes however, is under the name of lony Brice. (U)

CG 6512-C-TE

Numerous jukebox operators in the Chicago area state as

far as they are concerned this company is owned by the English

brothers.

Friends and Associates

Bernard S. Neistein

Illinois State Senator

Sam De Fily

san Do ta do in lose, but earing deso that

On August 20, 1962, a confidential source advised that

Sam De Fily is/a close associate of several prominent Chicago

caxtage thief (U)

CG 6512-C-TE

On September 7, 1962, a confidential source advised that

Sam De Fily had brought State Senator Bernard Neistein's Cadillac in

for service.

According to this source, Butch English had told him

that Neistein is "my guy" (U)

CG 6512-C-TE

- 26 -

MORE EPANAMIL

HH 45792

DocId: 32585200 Page 57

---

## Page 58

had a conven seen vet & an be a card that i stated that when

Sam Giancana took over Accardo's place he personally named his number

two man as Fiore Buccieri, despite the fact that both Willie Daddano

and Sam Battaglia were considered most important at that time and

were thought to be likely successors to Giancana's number two

position.

According to the source, De Fily works for a local

government licensing Bureau and has

something to do with the

investigation of tavern licenses.(U)

CG 6512-C-TE

A confidential source advised that on November 26, 1962,

Sam "Butch" English left word for Sam De Fily at State Senator

Neistein's office that he had received an offer of $400,000 for land

near Tucson, Arizona.

This source said that this land was not the

same land

which is located at Rimrock near Flagstaff, Arizona.

According to the source, De Fily is a partner in the

CG 6512-C-TE

Tucson propert

A confidential source advised in the early morning hours of

December 18, 1962, Chuck English, Carl Urbanatti, Johnny Kringas,

Sam De Fily

and Mike Consentino (phonetic) were engaged in a conver-

sation at the Fifth Jack Club, 3340 West Jackson Boulevard. (It

should be noted Consentino is

nowedeceased) • (U)

CG, 6512-C-TE

A confidential source advised that Sam De Fily, Butch

and Chuck English and Senator Neistein were in a conversation at the

Fifth Jacks Restaurant from late sunday evening, february 10, 1963;

until about 5:00 AM, February 11, 1963. By 12:30 AM, Willie Russo,

who had been waiting for Sam De Fily, contacted De Fily concerning

the clearance of a title for Russo's car.

According to the source,

it appeared that due to an accident Willie Russo lost the title and

license to his personally owned vehicle and De Fily was supposed to

have taken care of getting this matter straightened out.

According

to the source, De Fily apparently had not handled this matter an

Russo wanted De Fily to contact Senator Neistein for the purpose

of having Neistein send a special delivery letter to an unknowi

contact regarding this title and license.u

CG 6512-C-TE

- 27=

Wall Brian Auer

HH 45792

DooId: 32585200

Page 58

---

## Page 59

A confidential source advised that on february 11, 1963,-

Bernard Neistein, Sam De Fily and Butch English wershmatconversa

tion at filth Jacks following a political meeting. During the

conversation English arranged with Neistein for an appointment to

see Attorney Don Mitchell in connection with obtaining exterminating

stops for several hundred laundromats affiliated with Mitchelle U

CG 6512-C-TE

A confidential source advised that on February 11, 1963,

Butch English told Harry Accardi (operator of Fifth Jacks Club)

that he should have "run those guys" (Federal Bureau.of

Investigation Agents) instead of talking to them.

Sam De Fily

source, commented

new record released by singer Jane Darwyn

entitled "Half a Woman" which has been put out by a firm which

lists Joe English as one of the producers.

De Fily according

to the source, indicated surprise that Butch's brother's name

would be listed. The

"Why not? Hees clean. He fought for this country."

source said Butch English then remarked

CG 6512-C-TE •

On June 6, 1963, a confidential source advised that he

attended the reception at

the Villa Venice after the wedding of

Sam English's son.

This source stated he sat at a table with

Joe English and his wife, Butch English's mother and father-inZaw,

George Vydra, two daughters of Senator Bernard Neistein and Sam

De Fily. (U

CG 6575-C-TE

On May 13, 1963, Detective Howard Wiegand, Oak Park,

Illinois, Police Department, furnished a Bureau Agentswith a list of

license numbers which were obtained from vehicles parked in the

parking lot of the church at the wedding of Ronald English and

Diane Altier.

Included on this list was license number 876 950,

registered to

Sam R. De Fily, 4123 West Harrison Street, Chicago,

Illinois. (U)

A confidential source advised on the evening of July 5,

1963, he met with Butch English, George Vydra and Sam De Fily,

along

with

two other unknown irdividuals whom the source described as

from out of

town. (v)

CG 6575-C-TE

- 28 -

CORDEAL

NN 45792 DocId:32585200 Page 59

---

## Page 60

Built die karan a

A confidential source advised that on August 5, 1963

"Butch'' English , "Juke Box" Joe, Al Romano and Sam De

at the. Flith Jacks Restaurant, 3338 West 5th Avenue,

ufily met

€G 6512-C-TE

A confidential source advised that on August 18, 1965,

Sam De Fily advised Frank Bunnunzo (phonetic)-that the "G" had been

around all day looking for Butch English. (U,

CG 6512-C-TE

On September 20, 1963, a confidential source advised that

Jack Riordan, Chicago Police officer, and Sam De Fily are interested

In purchasing a load of 40 portable television sets plus one 19"

color television which are stored in a drop near Taylor and

Ashland Avenue •

According to this source, he did not know who had

stolen the televisions but learned from Riordan that Riordan was

concerned about the purchase since he and De Fily had observed

several cars in the vicinity which theyfelt might be either the

the pesty

Police Intelligence Unit or Federal Bureau of Investigation cars (u)

CG 6512-C-TE

In August of 1962 a confidential source advised that

Sam English was looking for an apartment in the Fillmore District

to med to use to artent ena boo dermard felton. English

planned to use the apartment for a book. (U)

CG 6512 -C-TE

On December 24, 1963, a confidential source advised he

attended a luncheon party that Butch English had given for Illinois

State Senator Bernard Neistein which was held at the Swiss Chalet

in the Swiss Bismarck Hotel®

This source advised in addition to

English and Neistein, other

individuals present were Alderman Vydra,

Rita Nardini, Neistein's paramour; Moe (not Giancana) ; Phy 15

Governor Shapiro.

individuals there, approximately three or-four more, but he

was unable to record their names other than that they were close

associates of Neistein and English in City Hall or the State

Office Building• (U)

CG 6575-C-TE

confidential source advised in November of 1963 that

English

meets with a group of individuals which included Illinois

State Senator Bernard Neistein and that they play poker at Neistein':

= 29 -

HW 45792

DocId: 32585200 Page 60

---

## Page 61

paramour's residence. At this time this source was not

aware of the

residence.

In January of 1964 this same source advised that

the

residence was located at 4907 Farwell, Skokie, Illinois. V)

CG 6575-C-TE

On January 16, 1964, a surveillance by Bureau Agents

at the above residence indicated the following license numbers were

on cars parked in the driveway or

The following were 1963 licenses:.

"o)Erant of the above residence:

3833 registered to Oscar S. Tucker, 6621

North Francisco Avenue, Chicago. (Tucker

is

employed at the Tax Assessor's Office in the

County Building)•

HC 6470, registered to the Hertz Rental Company.

Contact

with this company indicated this car was

rented

I by Rita Nardini, 4907 Farwell, Skokie,

Illinois.

MK 2750, registered to Morton Kray, 2750 West

Coyle,

The following were 1964 licenses:

5620, registered to Maurice Fink, 152 South

Pulaski

3245, registered to Murry C. Bass, 7350 North

Ridge Avenue

31, registered to Edith C. Luthy, 1418 NorthCole

Illinois.

cortinous State Senator Bernard Neiste in) .

(This car is usually driven

A confidential source advised that Butch English, through

his contacts with Illinois State Senator Bernard Neistein, is able

to have the assessed valuation of real esate property lowered in

order to reduce the taxes on this property.

vi tia ton ge

According to the

confidential source, Neistein has contacts in the Tax Assessor's

he is able to have the manipulations handled.

According to this source, the assessment is lowered on a property

for four years and the saving resulting for one year is kicked back

to English and Neistein and so forth. The remaining three years'

savings are received by the owner of the property. (U)

CG 6575-C-TE

- 30 -

HH 45792 DocId: 32585200 Page 61

---

## Page 62

According to the source, this has been done on numerous

pieces of property; however, the source us only able to name two ..

properties for sure on which it was done; one, the Harlem-Irving

Shopping Center, Harlem and Irving Park road;

and two, the Graemere

Hotel. (V)

The money, according to this source, is split as follows:

50% goes to the Assessor's Office to be split, 25% goes to Neistein's

law firm and 25% is given to English to be split up.

This source

advised that he was informed of the above split by Butchu English. (V)

A confidential source advised that Butch English had

remarked that Rite Nardini costs Neistein at least $25,000 d

year "to keep"

CG 6575-C-TE

Richard Olivio

6801 Wabansia

According to a confidential source, Olivio was formerly

employed in the Cook County Sheriff's Office

and was released when

a change in political parties took over the Sheriff's office.

English attempted

through

confidential source to have Olivio

placed on Ogilvie's force: (U)

CG 6575-C-TE

Julian Portman

Los Angeles, California

volo 1604

Portman was observed by a Bureau Agent on July 21, 1964,

at the Sahara Inn North in the company of English. (U)

Mitchell Wolcoff was also observed on July 21, 1964,

in conversation with Charles and Sam English at

the Sahara Inn

North for a period ai approximately 40 minutes. U

New Orleans Connection

for

The following information

relates to information

received from

a confidential source in October, 1962:/U

CG 6575-C-TE

CONNIE

- 31 -

HH 45792

DocId: 32585200 Page 62

---

## Page 63

MABMICTARAL

Ben J. Shear, Sales Manager, Uniflow Manufacturing

war us company,

Erie, Pennsylvania, New Orleans address 7207 Washington Avenue.

Shear, according to the source,

represents interests of Giancana

and English in New Orleans area.

According to the source, Shear

is a former Chicagoan and at one time controlled pinball machines

from Cicero Avenue to Harlem on 22nd Street: (V)

Jim Moran, operator of Moran's restaurant, New Orleans,

according to source

said that English and Giancana have control

over the jukeboxes and coin machines in the New Orleans area. Moran,

according

to the source, said that his brother Art Moran has coin

machines in New Orleans

and takes his orders from Charles and Sam

English. (V)

Sam Ferruggia, President

Leyden Acceptance Corporation

3733 West Grand Avenue

Chicago, Illinois

Ferruggia in connection with the above company, furnishes-

loans to local jukebox operators and owners of locations where juke-

boxes are placed. (U

Ferruggia has been observed by Bureau Agents in the company

of Charles English on numerous occasions. Also Ferruggia's car was

observed at the residence of Sam English on the evening of Charles

English's testimony before the Federal Grand Jury, which met in

January, 1966•

Charles English's automobile was also observed at

this location. (U

Ray Colomb

Colomb's Supper Club

1500 Block West 87th Street

Chicago, Illinois

A confidential source advised that Chuck and Sam

English have a large interest in the above supper club.

This same

source advised that the Englishes tell Colomb what to do in connec

taon with this business. (u

CG 6575-C-TE

- 32 0

PMEINENLAL

HH 45792

DocId: 32585200

Page 63

---

## Page 64

Felix Alderisio

GON IDENTIAL

Bureau Agents have observed Alderisio in the company of

Charles English at the Lormar Distributing Company, Inc., 2311

North Western Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. (V)

Francis Curry

ste

Curry, a lieutenant for Chicago hoodlum, Frank La Porte,

Foreign Cruise

Charles English, according to a confidential source,

leparted New York City on February 4

with his wife. According to ts source teles pie

return-to Chicago on or about March 23, 1955. | U

CG 6962-PC

The records of the Passport Division, Federal Building,

Turkey, Spain and Greece. (U)

The Regency Motel

Roosevelt Road

Broadview, Illinois

A confidential source; advised that English resided at

the above motel from May 1, 1964, to July 12, 1964, under the name

Charles Cook"®

The above source said that English was observed to

drive cars while residing there which were registered to his brother

Sam English, Rocco M. Bertini, 1318 South 58th Street, Cicero,

Illinois, and to the Lormar Distributing Company, Inc., 2311 North

Western Avenue, Chicago, Illinois•

Above source said

that English

made telephone

calls to the following numbers WH 3-0600 Listed

to

the singapore, 1011 North Rush Street, Chicago, Illinois. N

Lee Gherke, IID, Chicago PD

- 33 -

HH 45792 DocId:32585200 Page 64

---

## Page 65

V9g00 369.02s In Book 325, set forth a Spocial Warrent

Deed Cated May 5,

1964,

where in cast property legally deseribed but

Generally known as the Rinrock Ranch, wis conveyed from Willtan T.

O'Erten, Ralpb B. Graham and Rosenry Graham to Joseph and Elisabeth

Boglish vith Intornal Revenue Stamps thorson in the amount of

Pages 337-330, book 335 reflect a Warranty Deed wherein

Joseph English, ad President, and Harvin Browning,

Secretary, Rimrock

being Mny 5, 1964•(U)

That Loke Montezura Beach, inc., an Arizone corporatzon,

mortagory 10w en in consideration of $203,000 paid by Southland

Management, Ltd., B Manitoba, Cansde, corporetion, mortgagee, hag

grantod, sold and convoyed and by, these prosente dos grant,

8011

and convey unto the sale Southland Management, Ltds, all those

certain parcela of ren) property in the county of Yevapas, state of

Arizona as follows:

(legal deseription of Rimock Ranch follows).

Alt eigned by terria troune, Procldest, and bauti ssakla, dontolu

The Winnipeg Police Department, Winnipes, Monitoba:

. Canada

on July 1, 1964, advised they had no information: in

their files

identiftable with the above captioned individuals.

(4)

On July 2, 1964, the Boyal Canadian Mounted Polico Detache

with the alove to naivini lot any intonation sontariable

On December 4, 1964,

Bureau Agents of tho Los Angeles

0121c0 ,•

observed Robert

trank

Freedman meting Gilbert Lee Beckley

in the

National Airlines Terninal, Los Angeles

International Airport,

in the company of a

shite hale tontatively identified as Denjamin

Matakin from Canada.

Freedman is a close associate of Beckley, and Beckley te a

vell known gomblen.

Investigation de being condueted by the Les Angeles Office concerning

i conducted

Freednan is also an active gambler.

An active

Freedman under the Interstate Gambling Statute. (U)

- 23

HH

45792

DooId: 32585200

Page 65

---

## Page 66

SPITIN

A confidential source advised

that on februd yo, eyes

Berserd Notstein, Sam De Tily and Butch English were in a converen

t1on st

Filth Jacke tolloring a political moeting.

During the

converention English erranged with Netatoin for an appointment to

ase Attorney Don Mitchell In connection with obtetning exterminating

stor for overal tenance lindro to antilate wits atetall. (V)

A confidential source advised that on february 11, 1963,

Butch Engl lab told Barxy

Accards (operator of Filth Jacks Club)

that ho should have frun

those guys: (Vederel Bureau of

Investigation Agonts) Instead of talking to them. San De Mily

added, according to the confidential source, that Marry could

havo run them in a nice way like Gerogo the aldernan did (George

Vyden, Berwyn aldernan) & Be Falg.

according to the confidential

Sourco, commented on a new record

released by singer dano Darwyn

entitled "all a Woman* which has been put out by a firn which

11ats Joe Unglish as one of the producers. De Vily eccording)

to the source, indicated surprise that Butch's brotherts name

vould be liated.

The source said Butch English then remarked

"Why not? es

clean. He fought for this country."

On June 6

o 1060, & confidential source advised that he

attonded the reception at the villa Venice alter the wedding of

Bam Englich's son.

This source stated he sat at a table with

Joe Erglish and his wife, Sutch English's nother and father-indav,

George Wydre, two daughtors of Senator Bernard Neistein and Sem

On May 18, 1963, Detective Howard Ulegand, Oat Park,

1111n016, Police Department, furnished a Bureau Agentswith a list

61

license numbers which were obtained from vehicles parked in the

parking lot of the church at the wedding of Honald English and

Diane Altier. Included on this list was license number 876 950,

zogistered to Dam R. De Sily, 4123 Weet Harrison Streot, Chicago,

1331no19 0(V)

1968, he

A, confidont tat source adyteed on the elenan per 14y, sione

not with dutch Uns ish, deorge

two athor uninown invionare shon the source descraco as

from out of town. (U)

Coma dan?

Hittin

45792

DooId: 32585200

Page 66

---

## Page 67

According to the source, this has been done on nuneroue

pieces of

property; hosever, the source ne only able to name tro

properties foy sure on maich at was done; ana,

the Morlen-lov lag

Shopping Center,

Barion and Irving Park road;

and two, the ursemere

Hotel. (V)

The money, according to this source,

is split as: 2o1lows:

50% coes to the Agnessor'e Offloe to be Split,

25% good to Neisteln'e

lan Cirn and 38% is given to English to be split up.

This source

advised that ho ves inferned of the above split by Butchy Inglish

"(U)

By to keep"e (V)

C Pita Hard int coute Notstotn at least 1235,000 €

eichard O11y10

According to a confidenttal acurce, Olivio was formerly

enployed in the Cook County Sheriff's Office and

was released when

a change in political parties toot over the Shortiste etisco.

Baglish attempted through a confidential souzce to have Olivio

placed on Ogilvie's force. (V)

Julian Portmai

bon Angeles, Californt

at the Saber thin we in we botany on eat 24, 1004,

Mitchell Holcott gns aleo observed on July 31, 1960,

In conversation with Charles and San English it the Sshare Tan

North for a period ol approsimately 40 minutes. (U)

New OrLeans Connection

The followins iatormation relatos to intomatso

roceived tron a conftdential souzco

i in Octeber,

1908: 0

TIGERE IRA

NW 45792 DocId: 32585200

Page 67

---

## Page 68

Re: PATRICK MARCIANO

Charles Postl, now deceased, the former owner of

Postl's Health Club, 188 West Randolph

Street, advised in

1962 that at that time Gus Alex and Edward Vogel, leaders

of organized crime in the Chicago area, frequented the

health club on an average of three ör four times a week and

nat while at the club, they were observed frequently by

im in conversation with John D'Arco and Pat Marcy. U

Information has been received on numerous occasions

during the past five years from one informant that Pat Marcy

is a close associate of Gus Alex and of other leaders of

organized crime in the Chicago area and that he takes orders

from Alex and his associates in regard to any requests or

favorable treatment which they desire from public officials

in the Chicago area.

carries out the orders of Alex and his associates by making

contact with members of the judiciary, law enforcement offices,

and other public officials in the Chicago area. (U

(CG 6443-C-TE on numerous occasions to Special

Agents William A. Meincke and Joseph G. Shea

during the years 1960 - 1966.)

The above informant also advised that an associate

of Louis Tornabene, who operates several strip tease operations

in the Loop area of Chicago, made a pay-off in late September

or early October, 1961, to Pat Marcy in a building in the

vicinity of Van Buren and Federal

Streets, Chicago, Illinois.

This informant stated that Tornabene was paying the

"outfit's"

share of clip joints in the First District of Chicago.

These

were the profits of these operations given to the First Ward

regular Democratic organization. On this occasion,

Tornabene

indicated to the informant that Marcy was "Gus Alex's man"•(U)

(CG 6443-C-TE on numerous occasions to Special

Agents William A. Meincke and Joseph G. Shea

during the years

1960 - 1966.)

= 3 -

HH 45792

DooId: 32585200

Page 68

---

## Page 69

Re: PATRICK MARCIANO

• In November, 1961, the above informant advised that

he had learned that the first-of-the-month collections from

various State Street strip tease operations had been paid to

Pat Marcy in the offices of the regular Democratic organization

of the First Ward at 100 North La Salle Street in Chicago.

This informant advised that the

"first-of-the-months" collections

would be utilized for police fixes and other favors bestowed

upon the strip tease operations at the request of the First

Ward regular democratic organization..

that this "first-of-the-month" payment had absolutely nothing

to do with the profits which was split between organized

crime and the operators of the strip tease joints.

The

informant advised that each strip operation

was assessed

$300 a month for this tribute.

All moneys to be paid to

Marcy were to be paid in one hundred-dollar bills according

o his orders.

to Mare organ aton eat ward paid the s30o ersue case

(CG 6443-C-TE on November 12, 1966, to Special

Agents William A. Meincke and Joseph G. Shea.)

The above informant advised in December, 1961, that

Pat Marcy had ordered Louis Arger,

the Lieutenant of Gus Alex

in the operation of strip tease joints in the First Ward, to

close down all strip joints in the First Ward due to the

large number of arrests made by local police at that time.

This same source advised on January 5, 1962, that Arger

received word from Marcy a week

previous that it was okay

to open the strip joints again. u

(CG. 6443-C-TE on December 14, 1961, and January 5,

1962, to Special Agents William A. Meincke and Joseph

G. Shea.)

In February, 1962,

the same source advised that-

the "first-of-the-month" collection had been increased

by

-

4 -

HIH

45792

DooId: 32585200

Page 69

---

## Page 70

Re: PATRICK MARCIANO

Marcy to $500 per month because of all the "heat" which

existed at that time which resulted in an increase in the

amount

tion.

lu money which Marey had to ay for police protec-

(CG 6443-C-TE on February 2, 1962, to Special

Agents William A. Meincke and Joseph G. Shea.)

On February 10, 1965, Special Agents Marshall E.

Rutland, William F. Roemer, Jr., and John H. Wilmes observed

Samuel

Giancana

and Murray L. Humphreys seated in a booth

in the Oakside Restaurant, Oak Park Boulevard and Roosevelt

Road, Oak Park, Illinois.

Certain portions of the conversa-

tion

which took place between Giancana and Humphreys were

overheard. Among statements made was one by Humphreys to

the effect that "I had Marcy obtain all the legislatior

bearing on wire tapping brought up to date."/u

From the general conversation between Humphreys

and Giancana, it was apparent that they were discussing

efforts

to block legislation favorable to law enforcement

agencies pending at that time in the Illinois State Legis-

Lature. (U)

5

HIH

45792

DocId: 32585200

Page 70

---

## Page 71

JEK Law 11(a)

The following is a summary of results of

investigation

concerning captioned individual for

period

June, 1961, to date.

Financial Status

VIAL

the

Investigation determined the following concerning

Alex during, the calendar year 1961:(U)

(Copy oi 1961 federal Income Tax

Return of Gus Alex)

Legitimate Enterprises

In February, 1966, it was reported that Gus Alex

was believed to be the owner of a building located on the

northeast corner of Randolph

and Wabash Streets, Chicago.

Within this building, Joseph's Shoe Salon is located.

According

to this source, the records of ownership would probably reflect

Sam Kaplan to be the owner.

This source reported additional

property believed owned by

Alex is in the building where the

Old Garrick Theatre is located.

Sam Kaplan, according to

this source, is a front man for Alex in a number of financial

ventures. He is highly respected in the Jewish community

and a close associate of Sidney Karshak, and believed friendly

with Marshall Karshak.(U)

(CG 6443-C-TE)

34

HH 45792

DocId: 32585200

Page 71

---

