# docid-32330876

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90093-10082

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-8100-45

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NO

TO: HỌ

TITLE:

DATE:

01/08/1971

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

NOFIO PECORA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

NW 45908 DocId: 32330876

Page 1

27

---

## Page 2

(Rev. 12-19-67)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

NEW ORLEANS

DATE

1/8/71

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

8/20 - 12/22/70

TYPED BY

NOFIO

PECORA, aka

HAROLD V. HUGHES

CHARACTER OF CASE

istc

AR

V

REFERENCE:

New Orleans report of SA HAROLD V. HUGHES,

7/30/70.

New Orleans report of SA JERRY W. BRENTS,

dated 7/24/70, captioned, "NOFIO PECORA

FAG."

- P$ -

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

Contacted

NO T-1 is NO 1283-PC

CONVIC. AUTO.

NO T-2 is PCI

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FUG.

FINES

SAVINGS

by SAS HAROLD V. HUGHES

THOMAS I. COLARELLI, on 9/30/70

by SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI, 10/5/70.

NONE

ACQUIT-

CASE HAS BEEN:

RECOVERIES

TALS

PENDING OVER ONE YEÄR EYES

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SiX MONTHS

YES ONO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-18100-45

- Bureau

(92-8100) (RM)

1

- USA, New Orleans (RM)

- Departmental Attorney, NO (RM)

- Louisville: (92-732) (RM)

12 JAN 1841971

2 - New Orleans (92-603)

REC- 45

ST 117.

OTHER 4

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

BAR, Criminal Divlalon

rganized trimo and Racketeering,

24

Section

Foom..,

B1 JAN 18 1971

EBL

STRe

'SECT.,

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1970 0-375-139

COVER PAGE

NW 45908 DocId:32330876 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-603

HVH: stc

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Inasmuch

as subject is being contacted under the

TECIP program and

since there is no indication that subject

is currently involved in any known illegal activity, the

Anti-Racketeering case is being retained in a p* status.

In addition to the information as set forth in

the report furnished on 9/30/70, by NO 1283-PC, this source

also furnished the following information which due to the

singular nature of the information is being included in the

Administrative Section:

On 9/30/70, source advised that Mrs. FRANCES PECORA

who is a member of the State Insurance Board, voted favorably

on a recent rate increase.for the insurance industry in the

State of Louisiana. Source said that in return for this favorable

vote, Mrs. PECORA was able to obtain a loan for $225,000

from an unnamed insurance company or companies in Baton

Rouge, La., to finance the acquisition of the building at

300 Decatur St., New Orleans, La.

This building at 300

Decatur St., is a large apartment building in: a very

expensive section of New Orleans known as the French Quarter.

Copy of this report furnished to Louisville in view

of possible future investigative interest.

COVER

B#

PAGE

Mia Ve

NH 45908

DocId: 32330876

Page 3

---

