# docid-32292734

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10210-10010

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ JUNE MAIL

62-9-9-1182

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/24/1963

5

THP, MISUR, JUSTIFICATION, CELANO'S TAILOR SHOP,

GAL, AA, PDE, HANGOUTS, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 11/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

1 DocId: 32292734

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F, Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hove

DATE:

11-14-2017

FD-143*(12-28-60)°

OPTIONAL FORM, NO. 10

UNITED STATES. GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM,

CONFIXINTIAJUE

DIRECTOR, FBI

(Bufile 92-9-9

DATE:

SAC, CHICACO 92-35° SUSARET

11/24/63-

SUBJECT:

ALI, INFOON TTON CONTAYNEL

HEREIN

CHENG SHOE ORDEANISE.

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE. SURVEILLANCE

Remy FD 143 dated 11/1/62.

RE:

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

Title

CHICAGO DIVISION

191-49

Hassified but

Declassity on: DAPE

ALL INFORM TO: CONS.

HERENT IS UNGLASSIIED

Character of Case

Field Office

ANTI-RACKETEERING.

Chicago- CONF

Symbol Number

INTE

CG 6343-C*

Type of Surveillance:

(Technical oi

Microphone) Microphone

1. Name of person

organization on whom surveillance placed:

Celano's Tailor Shop, meeting place for Chicago Top Hoodluns

2.

Address where installation made.

Also give exact room number or area

covered:

CH1<A60, In

620 North Michigan Avenue,

second floor,

private office

Of JIMY CELANO, owner•

3. Location of monitoring plant:

(Central Tesur Plant) (536 South Clark)stree

9/22/98 mo

Chicago Office

Chicago, Illinois(S)

710 970

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:'

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 1510/KSR

Authorized 7/14/59

Installed 7/29/59

- DECLASSIFY ON: 25X;

5. Previoud and other installations on the same subject (with dates and placed IF K)

Regular Democratic Organization, First Ward,

100 North La Salle, 10/62

6:

If installation is a technical surveillance

Not

applicable

a.: Is'a trunk line utilized?

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

c.

Is the surveillance on a public co

D- Bureau (RM)

I - Chicago

WER

Registered Mankp

SO CONFIDAITIA

REC: 38110ning questiong 1/82

REC- 58

2.

1O JAN PJS 1963

elephone?*

CHE

DocId: 32292734 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hotey

DATE :, 11-14-2017

d. Is surveillance on a private line or

e. If a party line,, how many parties?

SECRET

?: If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually'

used and location of each:

One "mouse" microphone unit installed behind radiator,

which

is enclosed in a permanent wood panel housing in CELANO's

8.

Is the fiscailation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side.

of the combination:

No.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific, value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved:

(Add insert pages)

See attached.

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No.

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None for same coverage.

12.1

Has security factor_changed since installation?

No.

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title, and

agency ):

No.

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

• Tartel caja or alst paulson Moneyent docated do encasile

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

Four other surveillances and 13 other lines.

A MAL

=2.

SECRET

DocId: 32292734 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Cólléction Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey

DATE: 11-14-2017

C./

If any others, set out the proportionate cost of

instant surveillance:

SECRET

15. Cost of Leased Line for instant installation?

Noné.

16. Personnel Costs:

a.

Give total number of special employees and/or Special Agents

working at plant and total salary costs.

5 Special Employees (SEs).

$39,265.00 per annum

1 Special Agent (SA).

11,935.00 per annum (CP only)

4 Special Agents

34,850.00 per annum (Polish only)

b. Total number of man hours per, week spent at plant?

5 SEs. 200 hours or 100% of total work week

• 1 SA

• 30 hours or 75% of total

work week (Ct only)

4. SAS

120 hours or 75% of total work week Polish only)(

.. If other installations monitored at same plant, list

proportionate number of man hours per week spent on

' instant surveillance:

CG 6343-C*' 23 hours per week or 11% of total work week of

SEs in plant.

d. If other installations monitored at same plant, list.

proportionate

salary expense per annun for instant

surveillance:

CG 6343-C*

$4,319.15

17•

Remarks (By SAC):

90 days UACB.

This surveillance will be continued for another

= 3 =

SECRET-

DocId: 32292734 Page 4

---

