# docid-32336097

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90132-10001

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 62-9-2-268

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: AT

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/12/1965

2

JACK RUBENSTEIN

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

DocId: 32336097

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John e. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

3/12/65

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-2)

FROM:

SAC, ATLANTA (94-425)

SUBJECT:

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MONTHLY SUMMARY

ATLANTA DIVISION

The Bureau is aware of known efforts of the

organized criminal element to penetrate the Atlanta, Georgia

The following information is submitted to summarize

is known concerning these eforts and to inform the

Bureau of recent developements.

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM, ATLANTA DIVISION

"ATLANTA FILE 94-425

Investigationhas disclosed that MAX/EDER,

aka,

Max/Raymond, and JACK RUBIN from Miami, Florida.

were

registered at the Atlanta Cabana Motel, Atlanta,

Georgia,

1/7-8/65..

EDER according to information provided by the

Miami Division is believed to be in connection with MIKE

COPPOLA, who at the present time resides in Miami Beach,

Florida,

and is reported to be Caporegima in the Vito

Genevese family of La Cosa Nostra.

Confidential informant AT

Joc has advised that

EDER and RUBIN had lunch with IRVING BERLIN (a prominent

Atlanta bookmaker) on 1/8/65.

On 1/12/65, JOHN OWEN TYLER

a prominent Atlanta

Bureau Agents during

interview that MAX EDER,

aka. Max Raymond,

from Miami

•Bureau (RM)

REC- 120

666-41-2-268

2-Atlanta

JEO: cfa

(5)

Coples made

12 MAR 15 1865

c C a wick

for review at Find bu

56 MAR MAR241965

Approved:

(S00 DLE110 #02-117290)| 1

Sent

M

Per

NINE

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32336097

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

AT 94-425

Bobystunter

Beack, Florida, was In Atlanta and had contacted ROBERT

According to

TYLER, STANLEY told him that EDER was in Atlanta for the

purpose of locating property on which he might construct

dudexes.

TYLER disclaimed any knowledge that either

EDER Or RUBIN had indicated an interest in gambling activity

to STANLEY.

Information provided by the Boston Division

suggests that the La Cosa Nostra family, headed by RAYMOND

L. No RATRIARCA, is Interested in gaining a foothold in

Atlanta, Georgia, and further that VINCENT TERESA and?

BARNE VILLANI wereesent to Atlanta by this group to j

investigate the feasibility of this action. In this regard,

BarN Ya Boston informant reports that HENRYVAVELO, ChIel

Lieutenant for PATRIARCA, stated that he had learned the mi:

details concerning the Atlanta bookmaking situation from

MAX RAYMOND of Miami, Florida.

Confidential informant BS 812-C-TE reported that

while in Atlanta, a partner in an organized venture.

TERESA and VILLANI contacted BOB STANLEY,

who agreed to be

This informant states that contacts were also made with

bookmakers IRVING BERLIN and TOM ENDRICKSON, who alsoa

11,51

"were agreeable to the organization of all bookmakers by

the Boston group."

As noted above, ROBERT ELI STANLEY and IRVING

BERLIN are well-known to

As no-ed above no

the Atlanta Division, however,

TOM HENDRICKSON is unknown to this office.

A separate

investigation has been initiated in respect to HENDRICKSON

(AT 92-490), however,

investigation to date which includes

contacts with reliable informants who are knowledgeable

concerning the Atlanta gambling element has failed to establish

the existence of such an individual..

By communication dated 3/5/65, the Boston Division

has been

requested to recontact confidential informant

BS 812-C-TE for more specific details concerning the meetings

Of TERESA and VILLANI with Atlanta gamblers. Boston

has

- 2 -

DocId: 32336097 Page 3

---

