# docid-32327152

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notê].*

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90059-10048

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-12846-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MX

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/27/1972

4

RICHARD CAIN

SAMUEL GIANCANA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32327152

Page 1.

---

## Page 2

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote).

DATE: 11-E9629677N. 10

GIA FILAR (di CARI 1O1-I1.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT®

Memoranaum

TO

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM :

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY

SUBJECT:

DATE: 11/27/72

CLASSIFIE DACISIONS FINALIZED

EX DEPART

1AF2: 10/8180

CONFXENTIAL.

SHE F

SE

SIDE

CT.A

BIFISATTON

AC

SAMUEL GIANCANA,

aka

AR

Bureau: 92-3171

Chicago:

92-349

Mexico:

92-13 J-CU(P)

RICHARD CAIN

aka

AR

Bureau:

92-12846

Chicago:

92-2652

Mexico:

92-1057

APPRO

AND 71

ФЕРОІММ

O5.AN

TADS

GOING

APPACEN

AND ETED DOF

ADVIS EV

SHIP (S; OF

DATE

157

Declassify en

Mexico City Letter 9/29/72.00%V

Vised 10/13/72 that he had conducted

CLASS.

REASON-BOTH

further

investigation in Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico, and

determined that

the housekeeper at the Villa San Cristobal

in the

Las Quintas section of Cuernavaca is named JOSEFINA.

The telephone number at that address is 22500.

Source is

exploring possibility of

establishing contact with JOSEFINA

in order to develop information concerning GIANCANA. (C

During September and October, 1972, sou ce was in

contact on several cecasions with GILBERO MORALES,

who is

5/30/84/

6/4/55

the superintendent of the building at Amsterdam 82, Mexico

City, where subject GIANCANA formerly lived as SAM DE PALMA

MORALES and his wife confirmed information that a

local architect ROBERTO MORALES, Marcella 70-5, telephone

5-14-15-69, was a personal friend of DE PALMA and was doing

work for him.

MORALES had a chauffeur named CAMILO RODRIGUEZ,

telephone 5-14-96-28, who also did work for DE PALMA from

time to time and who has come by the building at Amsterdam

to check for mail for dE PALMa.

DEOLASSETT

ON CONTAINED

ALASSIFIED

TE SHOWN

239

ALL INT

HERER'S

Reclasshy

сереа

3018-108-07

3-Bureau

27/97

(1-Foreign Liaison

(4-Chicago)

Desk)

(2-Legat,

Beirut UCLASSIFIED AND

(2-Legat, Madrid)

EXTENDED BY

-23

99-19846-

2-Mexico City

FEASON

FOR EXTENSION

88460: 10129

RSC: kvw

(15)

§ DEC 141972

-DATE OF REVENTOR

DECLASSIFICATION. 1/22/92-0009

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings

EONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32327152

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE:, 11-14-2017

MEX

92-13

92-105

CONFIDENTIAL

indicated that attorney JORGE CASTILLO Z. was also very

friendly with DE PALMA and also received mail at Amsterdam

82.

CASTILLO has his offices at Plaza de la Republica 32-1,

telephone 5-66-59-00. (9 U)

RODRIGUEZ indicated to MORALES on a recent visit

that DE PAINA left for Italy about the end of 9/72.(2)(4)

The architect MORALES was contacted by telephone

concerning the whereabouts of CELSO CARRETO. He immediately

responded that CARRETO had gone to the U. S. to work and

that Mr. SAM and other friends had made the arrangements

and helped him with his documentation.

He did not know the

address of CARRETO and said the only person who would know

this would be Mr. SAM and he was in Lebanon: (W

On 11/15/72 MEX 287 advised that he had had no

direct contact with subject GIANCANA but had further reports

that GIANCANA was currently residing in his apartment in

Beirut, Lebanon.

He reportedly left Mexico some three to

"five weeks ago.

He retains his home in Cuernavaca and it

is not known when hewill return to Mexico.

He considered that it

shald be fairly simple to

locate subject in Beirut through the casinos or golf clubs

if he is unknown to Lebanese authorities. u

MEX 170 advised 10/31/72 that he had dètermined

that the full name in the Spanish fashion for CARRETO, who

reportedly worked for subject GIANCANA, iS CELSO CARRETO

BENITEZ. CARRETO was born 3/18/30, Iguala, Guerrero, Mexico.

The only address available for him in the records of social

Security is Las Casas 5, Cuernavaca, Mexico.

were listed as JUAN CARRETO and BENITA BENITEZ. He was

originally registered with Social Security as an employee

of the Hotel Villa Galeana, Galeana 102, Cuernavaca, Mexico.

The records of the Waiters

Union in Cuernavaca indicate he

has also been employed by the restaurants Las Mananitas,

Las Quintas, the Marriott in Acapulco and the San Gabriel

Las palmas betteen Taxco and cuernavaca. (on

2

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32327152 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE : , 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

92-105

CONFIRENTIA

It is noted that subject GIANCANA is known to have

frequented the Mananitas and Quintas restaurants.ou

The office of INS, American Embassy, Mexico City,

has been

CARRETO.

requested to check for the immigrant status of

The Mexico City daily newspaper "La Prensa" for

10/24/72

carried an article concerning the Cosa Nostra in

Chicago and mentioned the supposed presence of subject

GIANCANA in Cuernavaca, Mexico, and the fact that he was

not being bothered by iexican authorities. (Ul).

The same date attorney JAIME GUTIERREZ QUIROS,

Chief of the Inspection Service, Mexican Immigration (protect),

commented concerning this article and asked for verification.

Both he and attorney JORGE VAZQUEZ ROBLES of the Department

of Political Investigations of the Secretariat of Interior,

who also made inquiry concerning this matter, were advised

that subject GIANCANA apparently has been a resident of

Mexico for a number of years, in spite of the fact that the

Mexican government reportedly has prohibited his entry into

Mexico.

Both advised that they would be making inquiry into

GIANCANA's status in Mexico and his apparent violation of

Mexican law.(

In addition, MEX 170 advised that the Mexican Federal

Attorney

General's office was again showing interest in subject

These inquiries may have something to do with

subject's reported departure for Lebanon. (@ W

On 11/9/72 RICHARD CAIN telephoned ANN ARNOLD,

a clerk in the Legal Office of the American Embassy, Mexico

City.

Mrs. ARNOLD was acquainted with

CAIN during his

residence in Mexico some 10 years earlier and was acquainted

with CAIN's former wife who also worked at the American

Embassy.

CAIN said he planned to go to Cuernavaca for

the

weekend

and then on to Europe where he planned

to spend

winter.

However, he indicated he would be back in two

months. (

(4)(54 (U)

3

CONFIDENTIAL.

DocId: 32327152 Page 4

---

