# docid-32334824

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/17/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90118-10183

HQ

92-2897-90

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

ROSEN

HQ

DATE: 08/19/1959

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32334824

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DocId: 32331824

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

STANDARO FORM NO. 8A

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: THE DIRECTOR

FROM :

A. ROSEN CA

SUBJECT:

HARRY RAYMOND.POPE. - FUGITIVE

I. O. #3285, WANTED FLYER #229

UNLAWFUL FLIGHT TO AVOID

PROSECUTION, BURGLARY

ASSAULT WITH A DANGEROUS WEAPON

DATE: August 19, 1959

Tolson

Belmont

De Loach

McGuire.

Mohr -

Parsons

'Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

Autom

w.C. Sullivan -

Tele. Room -

Holloman -

Gandy -

Pope was added to the Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list

on August 11, 1959. An informant of the Oklahoma City Office has

indicated she is a close friend of Peggy Fry, a paramour of Pope.

The following information has been furnished by ASAC R. J.

Baker of the Dallas Office concerning current developments.

The informant has been in touch with Peggy Fry. Fry is

supposed to be in the Dallas territory somewhere according to the

informant. The informant is a former associate of Peggy Fry. She is

a prostitute, has apparently done time with Fry and although tough has

been trustworthy so far.

The informant is supposed to go to Dallas as. Fry has

indicated a need for an automobile. Fry has advised the informant that

she and her friend (it is presumed this is Pope as he apparently has

been with her) who has stomach trouble, need a car to go about 1200

miles. She asked that the informant meet her Friday in Dallas.

Arrangements have been made for the informant to either

use her own car or use her sister's car which is a Ford, 1957 model.

The informant will go to Dallas a day early as the Dallas office desires:

to put a transmitter in the car in order to facilitate any surveillance

which might arise.

The Dallas Office states that a Laboratory expert is in

Dallas at this time; that it is feasible to put such a transmitter in the

car.

It can be done if sufficient time is given, anywhere from six to

eight hours.

Ti: S6

RẸC - 52

22-2892-90

1 - Mr. Parsons

EX-133*

A AUG 21 1959

AR: LS

(6) A:16

Pita do

31959

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATE: II-14-2017

Memorandum to the Director

Baker recommends that this be done as it would be very

difficult to follow the informant. He bases this conclusion on the

presumption that the informant will be contacted by Fry who is to goto

Fry's sister's house in Dallas. There the informant will be contacted

and it is presumed will be taken to the point where the fugitive may be

residing or hiding out. A surveillance, if made, will immediately put

the informant's life in jeopardy. It will also result in our efforts

being immediately disclosed and, of course, this would be undesirable.

Baker states the informant can get to Dallas on Thursday

and make the car available. We will have control over it but of course

she would immediately suspect that something was being done to the

car if the car is turned over to the Bureau. She, of course, will not

know nor will she be able to observe the installation. Inasmuch as we

are trusting the informant up to this point, we apparently have nothing

to lose by allowing this installation to be made. It is between losing the

fugitive on the one hand and creating some suspicion on the part of the

informant that something was done to her car. I believe the latter is

preferable.

RECOMMENDATION

The installation is being approved and it is suggested that

the Laboratory may wish to get in touch with the Dallas Office

immediately to work out the necessary arrangements in order to •

effectuate the above.

-2-

DocId:32334824

Page 3

---

