# docid-32307856

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10293-10214

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-214

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

05/04/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, BUSS, GAMBLING ENTERPRISES, ASSOC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32307856 Page 1

216

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of

DATE: 11-14-2017

1992

"USC

FEDERA

HEREIN IS UNOLAS

ASSIFIED

BYS30S/

Ide.

Mr.

Bein

Mr. Cala

142,

Comra

Mr. Dri

Mr. Erad

Mr.

Malone

Mr.

Rosen

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotier.

Mr. W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram.

Miss Gandy.

5-4-61

2-10

AM

RJL

whet

TO DIRECTOR FBI 92-3171

FROM SAC CHICAGO 92-349

3- P

REC- 31

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA •, AR. DAILY SUMMARY, CHICAGO PCI ADVISED

THAT CIANCANA AND QUOTE BUTCH ENQUOTE OLASI, CHAUFFEUR AND BODYGUARD

OF GIANCANA, OBSERVED FIVE THREE LAST ENTERING ARMORY LOUNGE, IN

FOREST PARK, ILLINOIS. IT WAS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT,

YOUS - STEAK

HOUSE, CERMAK AND ROOSEVELT, CICERO, ILLINOIS IS A LARGE GAMBLING

ENTERPRISE OF GIANCANA AND REPORTEDLY OPERATED FOR GIANCANA BY ONE

FRANK QUOTE SHARKEY ENQUOTE

CULO• GUS KRINGAS, PART TIME BARTENDER

AT GUS- STEAK HOUSE ADVISED FIVE THREE LAST ESTABLISHMENT OWNED

BY HIS BROTHER GEO KRINGAS AND A PETER RANTIS AND DENIED KNOWING

GIANCANA OR EULO. DURING INTERVIEW OF KRINGAS, EULO ENTERED STEAK

HOUSE AND GREETED KRINGAS BY FIRST NAME. EULO IMMEDIATELY ADVISED BY A

CUSTOMER OF ESTABLISHMENT THAT FBI WAS MAKING INQUIRY OF HIM. EULO

SUBSEQUENTLY INTERVIEWED AFTER RELUCIANCY TO ADMIT IDENTITY. STATED

THAT HE IS A GAMBLER BY OCCUPATION AND HAS OPERATED VARIOUS POKER AND

DICE GAMES IN CICERO. CLAIMED THAT

=X-716

77-21

IS PEGLE OPERATOR DE THESE GAME-

LING GAMES, AND THAT GIANCANA IS NOT CONNECTED WITH HIS @PERATIONISE

ANY WAY, STATED KNOWN GIANCANA FOR PAST THIRTY YEARS HAVING KNOWN HE

SINCE A BOY BUT CLAIMS NOT ACQUAINTED WITH GIANCANA-S ACTIVITIES.

END PACE ON 66 MAY 151961

DocId: 32307856 Page 2

---

## Page 3

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

EULO ADMITTED THAT HE PRESENTLY IN CHARGE OF POKER AND CRAP GAMES OUT

OF GUS- STEAK HOUSE AND THAT ONE MIKE BAKES HAS A WAGERING STAMP FOR

A RACING WIRE SERVICE ALSO OPERATED OUT OF THIS ESTABLISHMENT. NOTED

THAT ONE

MIKEY

BAKESIS A LICENSEE OF THE

STOP LIE LOUNGE IN CICERO,

ILLINOIS AND THAT CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C PREVIOUSLY ADVISED

THAT STOP LITE IS ONE OF GIANCANA-S HEADQUARTERS WHERE A SAFE IS

MAINTAINED FOR GIANCANA AND WHERE VARIOUS STOLEN MERCHANDISE REPORT-

EDLY HANDLED. EULO AGAIN CLAIMED THAT HE IS SOLE OPERATOR OF THIS

GAMBLING ESTABLISHMENT, AND HIS FORMER PARTNER FIVE YEARS AGO WAS ONE

QUEENIE SIMONELLI, A FORMER CHICAGO PCI. STATED ALL HIS RECORDS CON-

CERNING HIS CAMBLING OPERATION MAINTAINED BY THE

AND B BOOKING SERVICE

IN CHICACO AND CLAIMED THEY WERE AVAILABLE FOR PERUSAL IF NECESSARY.

CHARLES NICOLETTI PROVIOUSLY DESCRIBED AS A RAPIDLY RISING WEST SIDE

HOODLUM AND LIEUTENANT OF GIANCANA INTERVIEWED FIVE THREE LAST CONERNING

HIS RECENT PURCHASE OF A NINETEEN SIXTYONE FORD FROM THE_

STERLING

HARRIS FORD AGENCY• THIS FORD AGENCY REPORTEDLY WAS HOODLUM CONNECTED

AND DISPOSED OF SEVERAL HUNDRED FORDS FOR BELOW COST PRICE ALLEGEDLY

TO PAY OFF HOODLUM OBLIGATIONS. STERLING HARRIS FORD PRESENTLY INVESTI-

END PAGE TWO

DocId: 32307856 Page 3

---

