# docid-32138506

## Page 1

8/28/2014

National Archives and Records Administration

JFK Full Results

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1.

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Exit JFK:

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-22-2017

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER

: 124-10058-10023

RECORDS SERIES : HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-3447

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: SAC, SA

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE : [No Titlel

DATE: 06/16/1964

PAGES

: 3

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS

: CONSP THEORY, TIPPIT, J., SIX OTHER MEN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/29/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

1/1

---

## Page 2

•FD-36 (Rev.: 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

6/16/64

Transmit the following in

Via

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL → REGISTERED MATLPOITAAI

HE BY 1803 KADIGAT

(Priority or Methodiou

- 075383

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

1111

FROM:

SAC, SAI ANTONIO 889-67) (P)

INDEFINITE

RE:

ASSASSXNACION OF PRESIDENT JOHN

FITZGENED KENNEDY,

+ 27/22/63

DALLAS A

TEXAS ALL INSORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

SUNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT HERE SHOWN he

Enolosed here rasa:8 copies of IHM containing

CATE

CLASSIFIED BY

KFROM

EXEMP

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION

certain

comments made by ALFRED DWIGHT AMOS FEATHERSTON;

enclosed for the Dallas Division are 2 copies of this LHM.

Ace

FEATHERSTON is subject of Bureau file 105-74802, and SA

file

106-1953.

682)

The

pertinent information in enclosed LHM was

obtained by SA 673-S

(SA T-1).

Informant explained that

FEATHERSTON, Who has been absent from San Antonio for about

one

month,

appeared at informant's place of business during

the late

nigh: hours of 6/14/64.

This was the first time

infornant had seen FEATHERSTON since FEATHERSTON departed

for Mexico.

Accompanying FEATHERSTON was a woman whom

informant had never seen before and who FEATHERSTON introduced

to informant as ESTHER. No last name was mentioned.

BRen the IlM while only the three

perspee were present

JULY 14 1964

In furnishing the

ormation to SA

DANIEL MAGENNIS

the San

Antonio office,

nformant pointed out that 13 1964

FEATHERSTON, prior to his

B-Bureau (Enco 8) (AM RM)

2= Dallas (Enc.

2) 689

5=San Antoniflass. & Ext

-4383

7/7/64

62089=67)

Reason-ICIM II

2.4.2-

SOVi

<1-105-1953 Date pERIYteK

C. C

Wick

61-65-1620)

FTCLOSUIR

<1=134-429A- 2310

JMK/ DM/đnb

(10)

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

all it sist

HH 53025 DocId: 32138506

Page

Mr. Tolson.

Mr.

Balmont..

Mr.

. Mohr

Mr.

Casper

Vir. Cal-en

Mr.

Corrarl

2.

Mr.

Mr.

Mr

Mi.

Sulliva

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

THREC COPY AND COPY OF ENCIS FILED IN

---

## Page 3

SA 89-67

ПИГІОРИРІ

Mays 1964, was interviewed by the FBI and thereafter

FEATHERSTON made comments to Informant that he was

suspicious of one Dr. RUTH BELLINGER MCCOY having

furnished the FBI information concerning him.

Informant

US

story concerning the assassination could conceivably

be an attempt to trap Informant inasmuch

as the information

could

hater come

• tO FEATHERSION's attention.

for the reasons set forth above, Informant

requested

set

that the information he tarnished, which is

forth an enclosed liM, be furnished to the President's

ommission only and that no other dissemination o

his information be made.

Is view of this, the San Antonio

office recommends that Informant"s request

for limited

dissemination be honored.

Therefore, the San Antonio

office is not giving consideration to interviewing

FEATHERSTON

concerning his statements about the

assassination.

It is

further recommended that any leads in this

matter be

deft to the Bureau, and that the Dallas and

San Antonio offices do not incorporate the information

in enclosed

LHM in any investigative report or other

documen: that will be disseminated.

INFORMAN IS

4(4)

Identity of source

T-1:

File Where Located

[34-4291-231 (4)

([05-1953-]$U

T-2.

NK T=1

Confidential Source Abroad

as set out in the report of

SA MATTHEW DO CRAWFORD, JROS

dated 7/5/60 at Newark

captioned ALFRED DWIGHT

AMOSI FEATHERSTON,

Cover Page "B".

WW 53025 DocId:32138506 Page 3

---

