# docid-32280738

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/30/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10131-10267

RECORD SERIES: NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-10310-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

SEE FBI 100-32965-4

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

•DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/22/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32280738

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

REPORT MADE AT:

FILENO. 200-891

DATE WHEN MADE:

PERIOD FOR WHICH MADE:

REPORT MADE BY:

ATLA CANO TAOR

•Titt tre

olor

mitt

sita

Do So tal

LADI

1820

• Horator Ford Mvtelon detes

nd romantry sirals

hotel,

100 1, 964-11

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES OF THIS REPORT FURNISHED TO:

§ = Bareau

2 - Houston

2

Nen Urleang

* = san intonto

UNITED STATES

RECORDED AND

1?4

CHECKED OFF:

JACKE

LINTINO OFFILE: 1992

7-2054

PUB

DocId: 32280738 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

the letsor mont on to malato that expened

8s7an voro leund and that other Inventigation noa boing

nade by Br

OLEVISITS o& tho Yoderal Barama of Investi

On done So 196hg Worlenn Connul JAVISA OS0R870

and V1c0

Coneul S.

puna, laforoned thas the canoe

CIUS VON NEARBSORILT, a Mondean Vion 1 167-

S011628 had prescated a Pollah Posopord and a ie entry

porate to the Unitod States.

He etated he mas going to

tantao to produeo a travelogue fer Facts P&la Too., Ken

Tert City and no gove no a voference Lie. MIGUEL YARRA,

Cello 8iber # 6 Menco 01t7. He exported to be in

Noxloe six monthe.

As approzinately 1i4e /M., dune 5, 29410

Bubfoos and Mro, LAMth arrived as shn International

Erlago carouta to Masteo,

To ecsoreaned with arrange

monto made visa WILLIAL A. PaTil, Chios Inumetes of

Da Do

Fastono, they sore stopped by Quatens Inapester

Ho 0..

sonalt and requested to bring aid thair barrage

Into the Gustonn Farpection station which chay did.

They woe trovoltna in a 196l, may, Pryeler Conver

Mbo coupe, moror nuber 80137 sortel number 793,296,

1941 New Tort Meenao auber 5 B 9937.

This cor

belongod to Me. LATE, scording to papare in bee

possession.

The baggage no perennally inapooted by

tro PERPY in Agentlo preconoe and papara on doomento :

found bz Kro NETTX wore handed $o Agent fox exonination.

KrO KARIN corred a large, bisch puroo, the contento

of which vore omnined by the mtron. Tho sure cen

batned ahout five thousend dollare worth of jewolst.

• 8ro 003 0 20000 +

paperea

Tho scorch ts coroladed about 2130 Pal..

Notbing of a cavorolvo satura as funn

No trouble

sas experienced during

the searol.

However, during the

lateor part of the sesren, MOnrEsQuILit, at Mre.

LAKIN'3 cargoation anted for Agentle men and offlotal

position ao me a0 that o. do. I011xdº

Tie infor

nation soo denotletely elvon thom. Jast betoro mableet

and Bro. LARKI

loft, Mrs, LARIN returned to the inaped

ton

i ebotton ond acked tos SORREL'S none and position.

100-10310

131-10901

DocId: 32280738

Page 3

---

