# docid-32306606

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10290-10246

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-146

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HILL, RALPH R. JR.

TO: DIRECTOR; FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/07/1961

"PAGES:

44

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC AND REL, BKG, ARMORY LOUNGE, FISUR,

CRIMINAL A/O GAMBLING ACT, P/P, B/F INT, TRA,

NUMEROUS INTV, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32306606 Page 1

193

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPOrTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/7/61

1/28/61 - 3/1/61

FATPAT. HILL, JR.

SAMUEL, M. GIANCANA, aka.

CHARACTER OF CASE

ALL INFORVATION CONTAINED

ANTI-RACKETEERING

DATE

TYPED BY

_ BY.

REFERENCE:

Report of SA RALPH R. HILL, JR. dated 2/15/61 at Chicago.

-P-

LEADS

LAS VEGAS,

LOS ANGELES, MIAMI,

MILWAUKEE,

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE523 g

SPRINGFIELD - Information

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

An information copy of this report is being furnished the

_BYSP506/

above offices in view of their pending investigations in this matter.u

INDIANAPOLIS

AT ELKHART, INDIANA. 1. Will identify subseriber to telephone

number JA 3-5308 and furnish available background information. u

2.

Will conduct the same investigation relating to telephone

number JA 3-5350. 4

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

2

-

Indianapolis

'(92-341)

-

Las Vogas

(92-308) (Info)

-

Los Angeles (Info)

Miami (92-170) (Info)

-

Milwaukao (92-93)(Info)

-

New York (92-793)

-

Springfield (92-188)

3

- Chicago (92-349)

Cror

3/15/01

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-3171+146

15

25

MAR Z0 1961

REC- 64

COVER PAGE

710

57 MAR 21 1961

PROPERTY OF FBI.—-This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor ite contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

NW 45792 DocId: 32306606

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-349

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK.

Will conduct the same

investigation requested of Indianapolis pertaining to New York

telephone number IN 1-1014(U

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. Will continue to coordinate

and intensify the investigative efforts on GIANCANA designed

with the purpose of ascertaining his financial operations,

activities, associates and attempt to ascertain positive

information indicating GIANCANA's violation of Federal, State

or local laws. (K)

ADMINISTRATIVE

The Bureau has selected GIANCANA as one of the

individuals for intensified investigation. The Bureau has

instructed the office of

origin to submit daily teletype

summaries relating to his activities and desires preferred

attention given all leads and the thorough penetrative

investigation be conducted and the office of origin advised of

pertinent information by most expeditious means. All leads are

to be submitted by teletype or airtel.

INFORMANTS

CG T-1

CG T-2

CG

T-3

CG. T=4

CG 6443-PC

CG.

6341-C

CG

6343 -C*

PCI

to

SA RALPH R. HILL, JR.

OTHER 4

4

-B'=

COVER PAGE

NW 45792 DocId: 32306606 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-349

CG T-5

CG T-6

CG T-7

CG T-8

CG: T-9

CG T-10

CG T-11

CG T-12

CG T-13

PCI

to

SA

RALPH R. HILL; JR.

E. STEPHENS, Village

President, Rosemont, Illinois,

to SA RALPH R. HILL, JR.

(requested)

CG 6435-PC

Sergeant FRANK MASH,

Intelligence Unit,

Chicago Police Department,

to SA RALPH R. HILL, JR.

(requested)

CG 6277-C

MiSs MARY ELLEN O'REGAN,

Security Department,

Illinois Bell Telephone Company,

Chicago, Illinots,

to Investigative Clerk

HARRY W. CROON

(requested)

MrS. MAJEL HIBBS,

Southern Bell Telephone and

Telegraph Company,

Miani, Florida

(requested)

CG 6343-C*

MM 730-PC

OTHER 4

•C -

COVER PAGE

4

NW. 45792 DocId: 32306606 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-349

CG T-14

CG T-15

MM 665-C

Mr. AL. B. HOLTZ,

General Manager,

Lord's Warehouse,

Chicago, Illinois

to SA RALPH R. HILL, JR.

(requested)

4

-D$

COVER PAGE

NW. 45792 DocId: 32306606 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 92-349

utilized as part of this gambling operation.

Informant said

that when this situation became known, the Village President

telephonically contacted HODL, who was then the licensee, and

advised him that he was aware of this operation and desired

1t to cease immediately. On the next day, according to the

informant, the operation was closed. Shortly thereafter,

the Village President, Mr. D. E. STEVENS, according to the

informant, was taken by ROCCO POTENZO in

the Village President's

•office at

which time POTENZO offered the Village President

$1,000.00 per month to continue in the bookmaking operation

at the Airliner.

The Village President refused the offer

and

the

issue was closed."

CG T-5 advised on February 28, 1961, that the

Airliner Lounge was operated by HENRY HODL for ROCCO

POTENZO, who in turn was described by the informant as

Lieutenant of SAM GIANCANA.

POTENZO was licensee for this

establishment although he had no monetary interest in it.

CG T-5 described the gambling operation at the Airliner

as being operated on a "sneak" basis and was not a continuing

permanent bookmaking operation.

It was utilized primarily

to handle bets which would normally have taken bets at the

Riviera Lounge and these were being taken at the Airliner on

an overflow basis. y

Riveria Lounge

6540 North Milwaukee Avenue

Niles, Illinois

During the above described physical surveillance

conducted by SAs HILL and INSERRA &t the Guys and Dolls

Lounge, it was noted that the Riviers Lounge opens at.

approximately 9:30 p.l. and is utilized, from observation,

as a strip-tease parlor and place

of procurement.

ROCCO

POTENZO was observed at that time

both at the Guys and Dolls

and at the Riveria Lounge. U

-13-

NW 45792 DocId: 32306606 Page 6

---

