# docid-32324239

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/3/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90025-10082

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 162-607-9

Released under

Kennedy

the John F.

Assassination Records

collection

Act

of 1992

444

ISC 2107 Notel .

Cased: NU

45878 Date: 11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

01/29/1963

40

ISADORE MAX MILLER

ISADORE MILLER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

02/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

RPT

MH 45878 DocId: 32324239

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

DL 162-37

DE 162-95

DI. 162- 96

DI 162-179

DALLAS DIVISION

AT TERRELL, TEXAS*

Will ascertain who resides at 400 west vue

ind interview such person concerning his knowledge

f the gambling activities of JOHN ELI STONE, 'HENR

license registered to him on a 1962 Oldsmobile sedan

at this address.

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

I. Will maintain close liaison with SA JAMES GANN,

Intelligence Section,

Internal Revenue service. Corrigan

Towers Building, telephone

JFK Law 11(a)

2: Will maintain contact with CURTIS A. BERRY,

Apartment 133, 908 Spring Valley Plaza, Richarason,

Texas (suburb of Dallas ), telephone AD 1-0285 for

Financial information concerning JOHN ELI STONE, bearin

In mind that BERRY has expressed a willingness to furnisi

3. Will review records of the Mercantile National

Bank at

Dallas pertaining to the checking account of

JOHN ELI STONE.

4. Will contact ABE KLEINMAN, Gulf States Building,

telephone RI 8-4272, who is believed to be the accountant

for ISADORE MAX MILLER and ascertain from him any information

MILLER and his connection with JOHN ELI STONE, HENRY CLINTON

WINFREY and JAMES WOODROW STONE in such activities.

5. W1ll IntervIew Dr. HERMAN ULEVITCH, 915 St. Josephs

Street, telephone TA 3-5191, residence address 6218 Bandera

for information concerning the physical condition of ISADORE

MAX MInnER and ascertain 1f he considers MILLER to be in

REVIEWED BY ER/JFK TASK FORCE

GN 6/26/98 JoL

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

COVER PAGE

162-107-91

HH 45878 DocId: 32324239 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-

P% 162-93

'162-95

DI 162- 96

DI. 162-179

The Information from the records of the Southwester

Bell Telephone Company, Dallas, Texas on 12/4,5,7/62 was

furnished to SA ROBERT M, BARRETT by TONY PAVELKA, Assistant

Chief Special Agent.

The information from the records of the Southwestern

Bell Telephone Company, Dallas, Texas on 12/5/62 was furnished

to SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING by TONY PAVELKA, Assistant Chief

Special Agent.

The Information fran the records of the Mercantile

National Bank at Dallas was made available to SA ROBERT P.

GEMBERLING by Mr. CHARLES F. NOWLIN, Vice president:

on 1/7,8/63, SA JAMES GANN, Intelligence Division,

Internal Revenue Service, Corrigan Towers. Building, Dallas.

Texas, telephone

JFK Law 11(a)

-

IDENTITY OF INFOrMANTS

Dallas T-I 18 JAMES FOLEY, Southwestern Bell

Telephone Company, Joplin, Mtssour1

tO SA ARTHUR N. THOMPSON, on 12/21/62.

who furnished information

Dallas T-2 18 DI-95-C, who furnished Information

to SA ROBERT M. BARRETT on October 30, 1962.

-E -

COVER PAGE-

167-607-9

NN 45878 DocId: 32324239

Page 3

---

## Page 4

DI 162-37

DL 102-95

DI 162-96

DE 162-179

Dallas I-3 18 DI-170-C, who furnished Information

to SA ROBERT M. BARRETT on December 4 and 5, 1962.

Dallas T-4 18 Mrs. CATHERINE KININMONTH,

manager of apartments at 4207 Meredith Street, Dallas,

Texas, who Furnished information to SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

on December 4 and 21, 1962 and January 3, 1963 and

requested her identity be protected.

Dallas I-5 1s DL-95-C who furnished information

to SA ROBERT M. BARRETT on December 11, 1962.

Baylor Hospital, Ella, SeX NOT shed InFormation

to SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING on 12/12/62.

Dallas 1-1 18 A. B. CASS, 6415 De Loache,

Dallas, texas, a multi-millionaire with offices in the

Hartford Building,

who furnished information to SA ROBERT

1. BARRETT on 12/14/62 and requested his identity be

protected.

protected.

-F*

COVER PAGE

45878

DocId: 32324239

Page

---

## Page 5

5D-00 (Ror. 2600)

=...

UNI: «D STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy for

Report of

Date:

Field Office File No.s

Titles

1 - USA, Ft. Worth

ROBERT P. GEMBERLING

1/29/63

162-96

ISADORE MAX MILLER

Ofico DALLAS

Bureau File No.: 162-607

Character.

Synopsis:

INTERSTATE GAMBLING ACIIVITIES

identified as HENRY CLINTON WINFREY, ISADORE MAX MILLER,

and JAMES WONDROW STONE, his brother.

JOHN ELI STONE

reportedly has close connection with JOHN RICHARI

NESTBROOK, a former Dallas gambler who now operates

Olive Manor Motel, Burbank, california.

The Income o

JOHN ELI STONE estimated to be in the neighborhood of

6200,000 per year by informant. Intelligence division

ternal Revenue service.

JEK Law 11

(a)

HENRY CLINTON WINFREY Identified as individual obtaining

apartment 207, 4207 Meredith Street, Dallas in name of

JAMES C. GARRETT. Telephones at this location are

FEderal 7-3197 In name JAMES C. GARRETI and number

PE 7-3224 1n name EDWARD E. MYERS. WINFREY also identified

as carrying on bookmaking activities at 506g North Edge-

WE 2-4074 in name JOHN GLEASON and WH 2-4286 in name

Apartment 6, Dallas, Texas from telephone numbers

JAMES GLEASON.

WINFREY absent from apartment at 4207

11cense PV 2334, observed in area of 506z N. Edgefield,

Oldsmobile of JAMES WOODROW STONE, • bearing 1962 Texas

License PB 1154, regiaterea to his wife, ROSEMARY G. STONE,

0222 Northwood, Dallas, Texas, the residence

address of

JOHN ELI STONE.

ISADORE: MAX MILLER was dischargd from

Baylor Hospital on 8/26/62 after having been admitted for

serfous heart condition. His doctor 1s Dr. HERMAN ULEVITCH,

162-607-9

This docusent ocatalios

seither recommendations nos conduons of the FBI It la the DrOperty of the 1'81 and la loaned to JoUr apener; it an

a contenta asa not to be distributad outalde your asanay

A1.

HH 45878

DooId: 32324239

Page 5

---

