# docid-32344055

## Page 1

Date: 11/29/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10054-10277

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

06-06-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

: CIA

FROM

: O'NEAL, BIRCH D., CHIEF, CI/SIG

TO

TITLE

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

DATE

12/03/1963

PAGES

1

SUBJECTS : OSWALD, LEE HARVEY

MEXICO CITY

JEK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS:

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 05/14/04.

COMMENTS: JFK7 : F24 : 20031203-1019683

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10054-10277

HW 53199

DocId: 32344055

Page

1

---

## Page 2

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Casio these?

3 December 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey OSWALD

At 1010 hours on 3 December, Mr. Papich of the FBI advised that the

Bureau had received a cable last

night from the Legal Attache in

Mexico City who 1s in touch with our representative there. He stated

that our representative had been informed by Captain Wheelock of the

Nicaraguan Intelligence Service that ALVARADO told him, Wheelock, that

he recanted his original story because of fear of physical harm; that

Alvarado was being deported from Mexico to Nicaragua on 4 December 1963

and would be accompanied by Wheelock; that Wheelock assured our repre-

sentative that Alvarado would be available for further interview in

Nicaragus if the United States desired.

Mr. Papich stated that the Bureau would like to have him subjected

to a polygraph examination by this Agency and would appreciate receiving

word as soon as possible as to whether we will handle the matter since

if we will not handle it the FBI will have to determine what other steps

might be taken to see that this is done. I advised Mr. Papich that I

would check into the matter, that I did not know whether we had available

at this time a polygraph operator who could properly handle this matter

but in any event I would let him know whether this can be done.

1000m

Birch

0 'Neal

Chief, CI/SIG

cc: Mr. Whitten

SAME

2607

670

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

HW 53199

DocId: 32344055

Page 2

3785

53

66

PATT

COPY NO

---

