# docid-32351177

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10075-10435

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 8001357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the Johr

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act 01 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel:

Cased NW 53199 Date:

06-08-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM : JMWAVE

TO : DIRECTOR

TITLE : JMWAVE CABLE RE DELIVERY OF MATERIAL TO CUBA BY

SUBMARINE, AIRCRAFT WITH AMERICAN MARKINGS AT RANCHO

BOYEROS AIRPORT AND ASSURANCES MADE TO CUBAN GENERAL

STAFF OFFICERS.

DATE

12/04/1963

PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS : CUBA

SUBMARINES

JMWAVE CABLE

SUB DELIVERIES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS *

1B

CURRENT STATUS • RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/95

COMMENTS: JFK17: F6: 1995.07.24.16:57:57:910028

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10075-10435

MH 53199 Docld:32351177 Page 1

---

## Page 2

24 DECRES

TODI RECTOR

FROM: UMWAVE

ACTION

INFO:

Dul, D/CC1,

GOr,

SOD 6

PA/PROF,

CA/o 4.

ci/oPs.

DoEs, Casa era,

Se Ö, UH Ô, SAS 12, D0/1,

AO/CI C, AO/NG, CE

21

3

ROUTING

16

TOCS DB-3/650, 205

4 DEC 63 02342

IN 72669

SE CR E + 8323287

DIR INFO PACY LANT SARR CITE WAVE 845%

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: AMCOG-3 IN MESSAGE NO 23 DATEO 13 NOV 63 RECCIVEO

18 NOV VIA NIÉXIT POUCH AND IN TRANSLATED FORM 29 NOV.

SUBSOURCE IS VET FROM INFORMANT LT KENAFRU OR FINATRO, WHO A-SO

DEPORTES INFO TE TOCSOE-3/655,763. KINAFRIIHAS SFFN

TRANSFERREO TO THE GENERAL STAFF HEADQUARTERS, HENCE ALTERATION

OF DESCRIPTION. THE SERGEANT WAS UNIDENTIFIED. LAST PART OF

FIELO COMMENT FROM SHOE. RID: NO INDEX. FILEO 2323287

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLEO DISSEM CUBA

SUBJS 1• DELIVERY OF MATERIEL TO CUSA BY SUSMARINO DO AIRCRAFT

WITH AMERICAN MARKINGS AT RANCHO BOYEROS AIRPORT DO ASSURANCES

TE CONMENT:

NO SEPARATE CAELE DISTRIBUTION 1S

BRING

MELENSAG

TDC:

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

34

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

050 4 0550= 61

SECRET

BATED ON

MAISON

53199J Роста132351177 Page 2

12217-

---

## Page 3

SCTION

TOC

PAGE TWC

IN 72869

MADE TO CUBAN GENERAL STAFF OFFICERS DOI: LARLY NOVEMBLM 1903

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (29 NOV 63) UFG 418%

SOURCE: A HIGHLY EDUCATED CUSAN WHO IS A VELL KNOWN ANTI-REGIME

FIGURE AND MHO WAS ACTIVE IN POLITICS IN THE PRE-BATISTA ERA.

SOURCE HAS SUPPLIED AN APPRECIABLE NUMBER OF USEFUL REPORTS BASED

ON INFORMATION FROM A WIDE VARIETY UP INTUINANIS. THIS INTORATIO

WAS RECEIVED BY A CUBAN PROFESSIONAL MAN WHO RESIOCE IN MASASA

FROM A CUBAN MILITARY OFFICER PRESENTLY ASSIGNED TO THE CUBAN

GENERAL STAFE HEADQUARTERS.

GATE CITHOUT EO

HH

53199

Docid: 32351177 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CENTRAL INTELLIGANCE AGENCY

CLASSIFICATION = DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

IS FRESH MISTICATIOLE DISSEN

U SC

-SECRET

COUNTRY

CUBA

REPORT NO. TOCS 05-3/650,20

SURJECT

2.

DELIVERY DE MATERIFI TO CURA AY

MING

DATE DISTR

AIRCRAFT WITH AMERICAN MARKINOS AT

MANCHOS BUTEROS AIRPORT

ASSUPANCES MADE TO CUBAN GENERAL STAFF OFFICENS

PRECEGENGE

HOUT IME

REFERENCES

DATE OF

IN

24F0.

LADI V MANIMBER 1963

72869

PLACE a

DATE ACO.

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (29 MOveMero 1963)

APPRAISAL

FIELO REPORI NO 13

THIS A UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL DR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE

A MIGHLY CDUCATED CUBAN WHO 19 A WELL-KNOWN ANTI-NCOIME

rISIRE WAS

IN THE PRE-BATISTA ERA, BOURSE HAS SUPPLIEO AN

ACPOCCIARLE MINREA OF

16/2

REPORTS BASED ON INFORMATION FROM A WIDE VARIETY OF INFORMANTAA

1H13

0*38VL

NAS ACCEIVEO BY A CUBAN PROFESSIONAL MAN WHO MEANESS

IN MAGALA FROM

MILITARY OFFICER PRESENTLY ASSIGNED TO THE CUBAN GONCAIL STAFFER

1. IN EARLY NOVEMBER 1963 A CUFAN ARRAY SERGEANT OSSERVED

THE ARRIVAL OF A SUBMARINE AT A COASTAL POINT EAST OF SANTA

CRUZ DEL NORTE, HABANA PROVINCE, THE SUEMARINE UNLOADIO THALL

SOXES, EACH APPROXIMATELY ONE AND ONE-HALF METERS WIDL, ONE

METER HIGH, AND TMO METERS LONG WHICH WERE THEN TRANSPORTIO EY

TRUCK TO THE LOCAL MILITARY ZONE. (FIELD COMMENT: IN TOCSOS-

3/655,763 THE SAME INFORMANT REPORTED THAT ON 29 JUNE 1963

THREE CRATED NUCLEAR NOSE CONES WERE TRANSTEPREO FROM A

SUSMAPINE TO A TRAILER AT A POINT OFF ISABELA DE SAGUA BY SOVICA

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

80 T

May Ce

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

HW 53199 DecI

d1: 32351177

Lagend

---

## Page 5

NATOR CONTROL

DO RIEN

CONTROLES DISSEM

TDCS 0B-3/650, 205

2200

PERSONNEL.

THE CRATES VERE LOADED ONTO TRUSKS IN PORT AND

TRANSPORTED TO THE SOVIET CASE AT SAGUA LA GRANDE 2EA LISUALLY

RELIABLE SOURCE REPORTED THAT THE SANTA CRUZ DEL NORTE CRUISE

MISSILE SITEWAS ACTIVE AS OF 1 DECEMEER 1963.)

2. THREE GRAY-PAINTED AIRCRAFT WITH AMERICAN INSIGNIA WERE

KEPT IN READINESS AT THE RANCHO BOYEROS AIRPORT.

3. CUBAN OFFICERS FROM HABANA PROVINCE TRANSFERRED TO THE

CUBAN ARMY GENERAL STAFF HEADQUARIERS WERE TOLD IN A RECENT

MEETING THAT A DIRECT ATTACK RY THE UNITED STATES WAS ANTICIPATEO

DURING THE MONTH OF NOVEMBER, THEY WERE TOLD THAT THE MILITARY

DISADVANTAGES WERE KNOWN BUT THAT THEY SHOULO NOT BE AFRAID

BECAUSE FIDEL CASTRO RUZ HAD NOT ONLY POWERFUL

DEFENSIVE WEAPONS BUT OFFENSIVE WEAPONS WITH WHICH THE AMERICAN

MAINLAND COULO DE ATTACKED,

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMNAVKE WEST.

RET

ENG OF AXESSAGE

WE ESCA

Nй 53199 DocId:32351177 Page 5

---

