# docid-32330431

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90090-10094

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-84265-34

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO :

WH

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/28/1960

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT. TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

LET

V9.1

HH 54460

17

DocId: 32330431

Page 1

---

## Page 2

- Mr.

Parsons

- Mr.

Donahoe

= Mr. DeLoach

- 17.

Nasca

• Io Po Mohr

= MT.

Cotter

813

CLASS. & EXT

REASON-ICIM II

DATE OF REVIEW

Mr. Rosen

SP 6 BAJ/ OMS

2.4..

81391

Z

- Mr. Belmont

January 28,

2960

KEE 19

CONTAINED

Honorable Richard M. Nixon

ON GONT ATUERT.

The Vioe President

Mashing ton 25s

Do Co

SEE YE BATE

Dear Diok:

George

chought you would be interested in the following

summary of informacion concerning a plot by Cuban agents

to kidnap Rolando Masferrer, prominent anti«lastro emile

in Miant,

and conspore him to busa, culminating in the

arrest. of George Valdes and Juan F'ernandez de

Rodrigues by our wani Office on January 27s 1960...

Informutton concerning this scheme was originally

reported on January 20, 2960,

past concerning Latin-Americon matters.

Toaffe advised thug

she was present at a meeting held several weeks ago in the

office of Baul Castro, chief of the Cuban Armed Foroes.

during wnich three Cuban offlotals, including George

valdes

discussed a plan to kidnao Mosferrer, deliver him to Cuba

where he would be killed and thereafter arrange to haves

"Masferrer's body discovered on an island in the Bohamas under

circumstances which would make it appear that the United states

and Great Britain were supporting anti-losure forces. according

ip cares the abduction of Masterrer would be effected by

Dibing a Miant police officer to place him under arrest ang

thereafter deliver hin to Cuban agents.

On January 27, 1960, Mrs. Taaffe advised that

Saldes hao arrived

in Miami in furtherance of this

scheme

tana that she had agreed to put him in touch with a local

police officer.

Subsequently, arrangements were made

for an agent of our Miami office to contaot Valdes posing

as a local deputy sheriff.

Our agent met with Valdes on

the evening of January 27, 1960,

in Mtami

and discussed this

schene with Valdes and Juin Fernandez de Castro, who

went ies rael as a peeresentates of the luter ly ion

Police. During this meeting,

HN: jlw: gmh

(20) grid

flivon

CONFIDE

TELETYPE UNIT

TIAL

1N32

194

105-844265-34,

ENCLOSURE

13770416

14 54460

DocId:

431

Page 2

---

