# docid-32327202

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90059-10098

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-93264-13

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

TO :

MX

HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/10/1967

3

RICHARD CAIN

RICHARD S. CAIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32327202

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

5010-107-5

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO RNMENT

Memorandum

CONFIDENTIAL

TO

FROM

Director, FBI (105-93264)

DATE: Feb. 10, 1967

Legat,

Mexico City (100-2229)

SUBJECT:

RICHARD

AR™

CAIN

OFFICES

SLIP

(RUC)

OLASSIFIED AND

REASON FOR ENTENSIO

ГСМ, 1, 1-24.2

- 1.3

100204-89,00.051

DATE OF RETIEW FOR

2-10=0

Reference is made to Mexico

exaCo CICATION, tel to Bureau

dated 1/4/67 entitled "SAMUEL M. GIANCANA"• V

NY

As reported

in referenced communication, coverage of

the

arrival of PHYLLIS MCGUIRE at the Mexico City airport on

12/19/66 established that she was met by the Subject, who was

also seen in contact at the airport with GIANCANA. Subject and

MCGUIRE traveled by taxi to the Hotel Maria Isabel and checked

out of the hotel early the following morning.

No further in-

formation was developed concerning the activities of McGUIRE.

CAIN or GIANCANA in Mexico.

It is noted that Agents of ther

Mexican Federal Judicial Police at the airport, advised that

McGUIRE and CAIN appeared to be necking in the

taxi. Extensive

investigation was conducted in Mexico City, Cuernavaca and

scapulco in an eftort to locate these individuals.

in CAIN being predicated on his association with GIANCANA f{u)

The following information was obtained on 1/5/67

through a review of the records of the Mexican Immigration

Service.

This information relates to one RICHARD S• CAIN, aka•&

RICHARD SCALZITTI CAIN,

a white male American, born 10/4/31, at

Chicago. IllinOiS.

In July:

Service to extend

1961, CAIN requested the Mexican Immigration

him a permit to come to Mexico for six months

study the possibility of establishing a branch of his business,

"Accurate Detective Laboratories" in Mexico. f(U)

CAIN had American passport #2456342. @(u)

He had

L MexIca

Ejercito Nacional

114314.40

ican addresses of Rio Amazonas #94-20 and

/(u)

919826-

Bureau

(1 - Liaison

105=9326413

(2 - Chicago

105-8883)

1 - Mexico City

105-92264-13

RSC :ako

FEB HEY 1967

(6)

7 MAN 2CC:

98T 66 by CONFIDENTIAL

117

12-20-67

JOLINK

38 1 Buy W.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

no destin

DocId: 32327202

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F."

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107-note) .

....JDATE: 11-14-2017

CANTIN

MEX 100-2229

Mis Richard 5,

aine

mer Xerin

This file also contains a

"born" 12X29/39

parents BEATRIZ

M. SANTILLAN and ADULFO M. SEVILLA

She furnished an address

of Tacubaya #74-103 and an office address of Paseo do la

Reforma #104. It appears that her parents had an address of

107 Grandville, San Antonio, Texas. C(V)

The file indicates that she and Subject were married

on October 14, 1961, in Tlahuapan, Puebla. &(4)

According to this file, Subject was deported from

Mexico on 6/4/62, via Braniff Airlines destined for San Antonio,

for furnishing false information.

The details of this false

information are not set out. However, Attorney JORGE VAZQUEZ

ROBLES advised it appeared that Subject had a permit only to

make a study as to establishing a business in Mexico, whereas

he actually established a business with offices at Sinaloa

#19-201, Mexico City. (K)

The file contains a business card indicating the name

of this business as Richard S. Cain y Asociades.

VAZQUEZ advised

that this was an academy for teaching lie detection and police

matters.

He stated that Subject gave classes in the use of lie

detection equipment at the Banco de Mexico and to the Fiscal

Police of the Treasury Department.

He actually carried credentials

from this latter agency.

He was also known at the Jefatura

(Metropolitan

Distriot. @ufolt) and thu dudicial Polios of the reicial

CAIN's wife, in appealing the expulsion order, made

reference to his association with ROMAN LUGO of the Judicial

Police and DE. QUIROZ CUARON of the Banco de Mèxico. A(u)

An order from the Ministry of the Interior was placed

to deny Subject the right to re-enter Mexico. However, this

order was later modified so that he technically could ra-enter

as a tourist.

On 6/5/66, the Subject petitioned to be admitted to

Mexico as an imigrante rentista.

In this connection, he deposited

180,000 pesos ($14,100 U.S.) with the Banco Nacional

de Mexico.

This petition was denied, apparently on the basis of the previous

expulsion order. G(U)

-2-

MNIDENTIAL

DocId: 32327202 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONSIDENRE

MEX 100-2229

It is indicated that Subject's attorney was JORGE

CASTILLO Zo, 32 Plaza de la Republica, Slu,

This matter was discussed unofficially with Attorney

JORGE VASQUEZ ROBLES of the Mexican Immigration Service, who

advised that from Subject's file with the Mexican Government,

he could legally be in Mexico for a limited stay and under the

limited conditions imposed on tourists.

However, he advised

that the Mexican Government would be most interested in learn-

ing if the Subject were in Mexico and of any activities on the

part of the Subject in Mexico.

There is an inference that the

Mexican Government might request CAIN to depart if he were

located within Mexico. QuI

invostagation in abs coated soon as supert /a,

= 3--

DocId: 32327202 Page 4

---

