# docid-32318317

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10358-10004

RECORD SERIES: LV

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-461-2-1

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53130 Date:

06-01-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LV

TO:

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/22/1962

2

ADDITIONAL FIELD OFFICE ELSURS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

74 53130

DocId: 32318317 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-29761-28-57)

Time

Initial

IC

OG

Activity Recorded

1:40P

4:05P

bt

bt

4:19P

5:00P

5:00P

7;30 p

8:15p

9:06 p

11:28p

bt

bt

jr°c

jrc

tirc

jro

jrc

12:51a

jre

1:002

ire

Source activated. Voices in background, possibly coming

from adjoining room.

Wilbur Clark enters with unknown man. He is a former DA

who is now in

privato law practice. He is presently resid-

ing room #ISh

of the DI. He tries to interest Clark in

going in wiüh him and startirg & record company. He will

put up al

the money if Clark will use his contacts to

on to the recon

Clark does not believe

ann done diego lal? the name

singers, including lony Martin are under tight contract

and it is impossible to snarxthax breack into the business.

Wilbur promises unsub that he will think it over and

possibly talk to Martin the next time he comes into the DI.

Unsub is going to Palm Springs tomorrow where he is going te

see (?) Kennedy who is over there. Said he almost had

Kennedy int as VP six

made two fortunes and lost them.

Unsub and Clark both leave.

Off duty. No activity.

On duty.

No activity.

Voices in background. Unable to determine content of

conversation.

Appear to be from another room.

Background voices have stop.

Voices in the background have statted again; however, to

faint to understand.

Voices in background still can be heard. No pertinent

activity..

be coming from a IV program.

The voices in the background sound like 1t

Still able to hear-voices in the background. No activity.

in the office during the evening.

Off duty. No activity.

LogI V.6.9r.C•Page......1

PayTaur Sa Date 3/22/62

Employee's Name

R. Burns Toolson

James R. Clark

92.461- Suba-1

Date Stamp

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED 11113333 FILED

MAR2 2 1962

FBI - LAS VEGAS

HH 53130 DocId: 32318317 Page 2

---

## Page 3

T1-257 /1-28-57)

Time

Initial

IC

OG

Activity Recorded

2+10P

4:05P

b t

bt

4:19P

2:00F

6: 00P

7: 30g

8:15p

9:06p

1: 20p

2:51a

bt

jirc

ja'c

fre

irc

Source ectivated. Voices in backaround, possibly contra

Iron adjoining room.

Wilbur Clark entors with unknown man.

He is & former DA

no 13 now Ir

• privato law practico. Fo is prosently resid.

ing room 11f

of the DI. He tries to interost Clark in

the money if Clark will use nis contacts to

outsets 10r che

anarl one not balle on

it'oan be done because all the nuro

an is nose tetire unear ate contractors.

Wilkur promises unsub that he will think it over and

possibly talk to Martinea hastitimo he comes into the Di.

Unsub is 601ng to Palm Springs.

•comperow where ne is going i

see (3) Kennedy who is over thero, said ho almost hac

Kennedy in au VP six years dog but he lost by tear

4 or 5 votes to that

01d suy from tonn." Unsub says has

mado two fortunes and rost them.

Unsub and Clark both leave.

off auty. No activity.

On duty.

No activity.

Voices in background, Unable to

conversation.

Appeer to be

Background voices have sto

Voices in the background

deterring content of

another room.

statteà again; however, to

faint

to understand.

Voices in background

start can ba heard. No pertinent

activity.

The voices

the background sound like it

be coming from & tha

Still able to hear.voicos

tine background. No activity.

in the offico during the evening.

Off duty,

No

activity.

DayTourse Date 1/22/k2

Baployee's Mome

Ro Burns Toolson

Jamen R. Clark

92-461 Sui=1

Date Si a

SEAPONS mamma

I SENALIZED

MAR22

19A2

FBI. LAS VEGAS

NW 53130 DooId:32318317 Page 3

---

