# docid-32334477

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90116-10183

RECORD SERIES: MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-4921-143

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 53074 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

05/26/1965

2

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

FD-306

v9.1

; HH 53074

DooId: 32334477

Page 1

9

---

## Page 2

Cover Sheet

for Informant Report or Material

FD - 306. (3-21-58)

Dace Reo d

5/26/65

Chod

Ree'd from (name or symbol #)

Received by

PSI VALJEAN MATTHEN HALEY

SA RICHARD B.

OILLOGG

delivery

(check appropriate blocks)

person

By telephone

By mail X/ Orally

Recording device

Written by informant

turnished

. and reduced to

Date of Report

Welting

Agent

2366

6/10/65

Datated

CO

Transcribed Rough Draft 6/10/65

Date(s) of Activity

Authenticated by

Intomant_

March, April and

5/11/65

May, 1965

Pret description

activity or

File where original is

matertet

Communications received from

located if not attached

MINUCEMEN

Exhibits received by

esT in sub section

MY 134-1090

134-1070 SubA/

Renarks:

7 = 134-1009

: 105-4921

RBK/rbk

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN, IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 14/84 BYSPS BTOO

211.83

105-4921-143

SEARCHED

SERIALIZD eL FILED.

INDEXED/AL

JUN 1 5 1965

MH 53074 DocId:32334477 Page 2

---

## Page 3

June 10, 1965

valjean Matthew daley, Heat Palm Boach, Florida,

received

3 seperate conmunications from MITUTENEN in the recent past. The

exact dates he received then are not known. They were as follows:

istrative problens at MINUTENEN headquartors and the neod for

money and similar items, and a subscription forn for "On Target".

one was postarked arndependence, aissourt, with no date

shown in the postmark. It included "Minutenen News" dated April.

2965% an article entitled "Blue Print For Revolution" written

by "41,339" which had to do with the activities and preachings of

conora: sayo, who was deseribed as a communist, and how fidel

castro collowed those Seachings,

stand of Congressman Bob Casey (Texas) on legislation regardinc

firearns pending before Congress.

the Last was postmarcod in Lawrenco, Kansas, with no date

vistoLe su the postnark. It contained copies olOn Target"

for April and May, 1965, one of which had to do with pro-

communior student groups in universities, and a parphtot

entitled "Vencerenes".

Each of the above comunications also contained a "Member's

Report": 1 for March, 1 for April and 1 for May. These reports

are designed to be used to forward monthly dues of 82.00g for

ordering training prograns at listed cost, and for reporting

on ones monthly aotivities. Haley returned all of these to

NINUTEEN with the required monthly duess ordered the 2nd phase

training progran, and pointed out to MINUTEMN, in answer to a

question on the form, that he had never been assigned to a

"band" or "team".

This is the only contact Haley has had with Minutemen

in

the past few monthe. He has never had personal contact with

member of the organization to his knowledge.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE.

41

211,826

H 53074

.DocId:32334477 Page

---

