# docid-32150173

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107

Hotel

DATE S

11-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10090-10198

RECORD_SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109090-1ST NR 262

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BRANIGAN, W. A.

TO: SULLIVAN, W. C.

TITLE:

DATE: 10/02/1964

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 105-82555-5145

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

07/26/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/22/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32150173 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL PORM NO. 10

5010-108

MAY 1961 EDITION

OSAGEN, REG. NO. 27

ал;

*UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

1 - Belmont

Memorandum

1

Mohr

CONFISNTIAE

- DeLoach

TO

w. C. sullivanCS

DATE:

1

FROM

W. A. Brän

an

1

10-2-64

- Cailahan

-

-

Sullivan

Rosen

- Malley

Tolson

Belmont k2

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach _

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Tav

Trotter

Tele. Room.

Holmes -

Gandy

1 - Branigan

stokeseN

SUBJECT:

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

INTERNAL

SECURITY - RUSSIA - CUBA

warrewConoeos.com

State Department advises that Commiseion

request to declassify

Legal Attache Mexico City's 5-18 "Secret" Summary

nemorandum is not

likely to cause harmful repercússions between Mexico and U. s. and

it has no objection to declassification. This recommends that we

prepare a sanitized unclassified version of the summary for delivery

to the Commission, a procedure which the Commission now states will

meet its needs.

п)

The Commission on 9-22 asked us to declassify the "Secret"

181-page 5-18-64 summary prepared by Legal Attache Messico City.

The principal reason for classification of the summary

was to avoid

disclosure of

active investigation in Mexico by Bureau parsonnel, a

factor the Mexicans strongly opposed and to protect highiy sensitive

security informants Mex 18 and 19w peevided some of the data B19

in the document.

Because of possible internati.nal repercussions

between Mexico and U. S. if the summary was made

public, ve on 9-23

sought the views of the State Department.

State's 9-29. witten reply

expresses view that declassification is not likely to cause harmful

repercussions between Mexico

U.S. and, accordingly, it interposes

и)

no objection to declassification.

Legal Attache,

Mexico City, is opposed to declassification

of the document in its present form and suggests that, if possible,

a sanitized version be prepared by deleting

three nonsubstantive items

which are not referred to in the Commission's report and by deleting

references to sources of information .through

which reader may disting

between Mexican sources and Bureau Agents.

sort

Davida Slawson,

staff member of the Commission,

of the

Bureau, a redraft of same deleting or changing the material which

may

be harmful to Bureau's operations would fully fit the Cormission's

needs providing the rewrite covers all. 0f the Mexican aspects

Investigation touched upon by the Conmission' report.

78

105-82555

ified by 2040

ICS: pdb

Exenipt

(10)

sove

109090

RECORDED

149 oCT 23 1964

CONFI

28031d2

58 0CT 2.6.1061

DocId: 32150173

Page 2

for rate

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107-

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

• Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan

Re:

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

105-82555

NTIAL

The summary can readily be

to

needs and at the same time to protec tex rushd jokand

suit the camission's

disclosure of the extent of our investigation in Mexico. This can

be accomplished by deleting reference to three items which are not

touched upon in the Commission's report and by reusiting an introduction

paragraph on page one deleting a specific reference to a confidential

source abroad (Legat)., The Commission's report on page 304 records

that". . . the Government of Mexico initiated a thorough investigation

to uncover as much information as possible on Oswald's trip.

Representatives of U. S. agencies worked in close liaison with

Mexican law enforcement authorities."

introductory paragraph on page one will accurately fit the above

statement of the Commission.

(6(u)

RECOMMENDATION

It is recommended that to properly protect our operations

in Mexico, the 5-18 summary be written in unclassified iorm as

aforesaid. To do this will not require complete retyping. We

reproduce the document by Xerox and to renumber the pages.

...

-2 -

CONRIGENTAL

DocId: 32150173

Page

3

---

