# docid-32337957

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90139-10084

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 109-584-2684

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NI 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

01/08/1961

3

ANTI FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

TT

v9.1

HH 54463

2

DocId: 32337957

Page 1

---

## Page 2

EDERAL BEREAU.OF INVESTIGATION

J. S. DEPARTA ENT OF LUSTICE

COMMUNICATONS SECTION

A.H.E

JAN 8 1961

SECRET

TELETYPE

ALL INFORNATION CONTAINED)

EXUAREIN ASUNCLASSITTED

URGENT

1-8-61

INMS

DECLASSIFIED BY 5666 SLASH

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

TO DIRECTOR

803-20 - 95-(JEK)

1935

Classified-by =

FROM SAC,

NEW

YORK 105-35253 2PAGES

Declassify on: OADR E-118

SANTI DASH FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES, IS DASH GIBA.

REFERENCE

Mor.

Mr.

Moh:

Mr. Parsons.

Mr. Belmont&-

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Malone

Mr. McGuire_

Mr. Rosen

Tamm

w.a

51552401

Not hos

RECEIVED INFORMATION ON ONE EIGHT SIXTY DASH ONE FROM ANGEL GARCIA

TWO EIGHT CEDAR STREET NORTH TARRYTOWN, NEW YORK, A JULY TWO

SIX MEMBER. GARCIA STATES THAT THREE BOAT LOADS OF EQUIPMENT

CONTAINING ARMS AND FOOD WILL LEAVE NASSAU, BAHAMAS, FOR CUBA

ON ONE SEVENTEEN DASH EIGHTEEN SIXTY DASH ONE. INVOLVED IN

THIS OPERATION ARE CAPTAIN JUAN DIEGO, ENU SANDALIO AND OTHERS

10

ALSO ONE HESSY AND A MR. SMITH OF TEXACO COMPANY IN NASSAU.

CONTACT WILL BE MADE IN CUBA WITH PEPE BUSTILLO WHO IS EMPLOYED M

DECLASSIFNOI

AT KIKUANE COMPANY HAVANA, AND AN UNIDENTIFIED MEXICAN FORMERLY

EMPLOYED BY THE ABOVE COMPANY, NOW EMPLOYED BY THE JATIBONICO

COMPANY• ALSO INVOLVED IS LILLI ESPINOSA CRESPO, A GIRLFRIEND

OF RAMIRO VALDES IN HAVANA WHO IS UNDER

SUSPICION•

SREE CON-584-

LANDING WILL TAKE PLACE AT PORT CABARTE

LOCATED

IN EFTHER

2684

ORIENTE OR CAMAGUEY PROVINCES. THE

LOVE INFORMATION IRESJAN 17 1961

ALLEGEDLY RECEIVED BY GARCIA FROM THE WIFE OF HESSY ABOVE

WHO IS IN NASSAU AND RELAYS THE IN

25 TA HASNG ABERTON TO

ECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

END PACE ONE

ET

RELE SE OF CIA INFORMATIOO

FESet US

IN THIM DOCUMENT.

KP 3-11-48

NH 54463 DocId:32337957 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

SECRET

THE ABOVE IS POSSIBLY CONNECTED WITH FRO ACTIVITIES. LTHIS

INFORMATION WAS FURNISHED TO CONSUL GENERAL GUILLOT AND :

FURNISHED TO CUBANA AIR LINES PILOT DEPARTING ONE SEVEN-.

SIXTY DASH ONE.

CONTACT WILL BE MAINTAINED WITH NEW YORK

THREE ZERO FOUR-TWO DASH S FOR ANY FURTHER SPECIFIC DETAILS

[TREAU MIGHT CONSER FURVISHING ABOVE TO CAR ISLACE DEVISED

HE BELIEVES ARRANGEMENTS WILL BE*

MADE TO TRAP INDIVIDUALS COMING

FROM NASSAU TO CUBA AND INDICATIONS ARE ALL THOSE INVOLVED WILL

BE SEVERELY PUNISHED., POSSIBLE SHOT.

END PLS ACK

8-40 PM OK FBI WA DA

TU DIS

SECRET

HW 54463

DocId:32337957

Page

---

