# docid-32322756

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90005-10018

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-126101-NR

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

488a881nation Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NT 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

DL

HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

11/02/1966

PAGES :

2

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH MOLINA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: • 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32322756 Page 1

---

## Page 2

11/2/58

AIRTEL

CONFIIENTIAL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: SAC, DALLAS

RE:

WILLIAM JAMNS LOVERY aka.

Former DI-2-s

, (Bufile 100-385617)

(0L111e 139-3)

(P)

DECLASSLAVED 35 SA

ON 10/20/94

MO LOPILE

24-74

JOS RODRIGUEZ MOLINA

3M - C

(Bufile 105-126101)

(DEfile 100-9847)

(C)

D

APPROPRINTE AGENCIES

AND FIELD CITICES

ADVISED B

UNING

SLIP (S)

00 - DALLAS

DATE

pic

Re Dallas airtel to Bureau, 5/14/84, captioned,

"JOSEPH RODRIGUEZ MOLINA, SM-C."

Former security informant WILLIAM JANDS LOVERY, JR.,

11/1 and 2/6G advised SA EDWIN D. KUYKENDAL that he was

contacted. at noon on 11/1/66 and later that day by DAlt

SIUPSON (former Special Agent, YBI), of

the private investigative

firm named Dale Simpson and Associates, First National. Bank

Building,

Dallas.

SINPSON told him his firm is doing investi-

gative work

for the defondants (Columbia Broadcasting System

(CBS) and Dallas television station KILD) in a lay sult brought

by JON MOLINA, Dallas.

The civil action seeks danages for

defanation of

MOLINA's character fron television publicity

velcased shortly after Prosident KENNEDY's assassination.

SIMPSON desires LORERY to testify

for the defense

chen that case somes to trial in state court in Dallas, possibly

in about 30 days.

Delense through LOWERY's testimony seeks

establish MOLINA's nembership and activitles in the Dallas

Chapter of The American G. I. Forum during the first 14 or 2

vears (1954 to 1966) of existence of that chaptes, during which

5 - Bureau (RX)

= 100-385617) LUNDENTAL /05-126/01 -

105-126101)

• NOT RECORDED

3 - Dallas

(2 - 1343)

123 NO: 18 103-

(2 - 1009847)

EDX : 302

(8)

NW 54462 DooId: 32322756

Page 2

---

## Page 3

ĐL 134-3

DENTIAL

time it was under the control and domination of Dallas Communiat

Party (CP) menbers.

LOWERY stated the defense also uill attempt

to develop through his testimony some evidence that would tend

to show MOLINA had some knowledge of the CP connection with the

Dallas chapter of G. I. Forum.

LowERY understood MOLINA's attorney Is OTTO BULLINA?,

Dallas.

SIMPSON told LOWERY that CBS is represented by a firu.

of attorneys, the full firm name not recalled by LowiRt, but

LOWERY believes it is & Fort

included the annes of card thn, and several other sanes.

Texas, lav firu.

represented by an attorney identified as PAT PATTERSON, DallaS,

by SIMPSON.

The above is furnished for the Bureau's information.

For its further infornation, DALE SIMPSON and Associates is the

firm in which WILLIAM A. MURPHY, former SAC of the Dallas FBI

Olfice, is currently employod.

MURPHY in 1955 and 1956 vas

personally supervising security and security informant type cases

in the Dallas Oifice and should be well avare of the identitles

of CP members and Bureau informantsaduring that period of time.

It is to be noted that the names of DL-6-3 and DI-I-S, current

le to bo noted chat tha

informants, could possibly be disclosed in the trlal o1 the above

described law suit since these two intormants

as well as LowERt,

were then CP members reporting on CP matters.

) u

LOPE

LOWERY plans to tostify for the defense in that law

suit.

He advised he would keep the Dallas Office advised con-

cerning any pertinent new developments.

DENIMAL

- 2-

NH 54462

DooId: 32322756

Page 3

---

