# docid-32556633

## Page 1

+ (787712-14-64)

Tolson -

Belmont -

VenT

DeLoach®

Casper

Callahan ..

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy =

O AIRGRAM

CABLEGRAM

RADIO

NE TELETYPE

11:58 PM CST DEFERRED KOM 3-6-65

DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO 050140

GUS

ALEX, AKA, ARO DAILY SUMMARY O

Retard

CG 6502-0% ADVISED ALEX AND SUZANNE FUEGER AGAIN

DISCUSSED LETTER FROM SWISS CONSULATE BANNING ALEX FROM

SWITZERLAND UNTIL 1975. ALEX'S CONCERN HAS INCREASED =

CONSIDERABLY AND HAS BEEN ADVISED HE HAS UNTIL MARCH 312

NEXT, TO APPEAL ORDER WHICH APPEAL MUST BENADE IS ICE

DEPARTMENT AND POLICE DEPARIMENT BOTH BERN. SWITZERLAND

HE MUST FURNISH REASON WHY HE SHOULD HAVE GHER

NTTZENTINDATE HE VIOLATES ORCER

HE IS SUBJECT TO SIX

MONTHS IN PRISON AND-OR 105000 FLNE ALEX STATES WITH

SEND

EVEALS ALEX HAS DISCUSSED BANKS IN SWITZERLAND AND HI

POSSIBLE EXISTS ALEX FEARS

HEAD NOT BE ABLE TO PROTECT BANK FUNDS IN SWITZERLAND.

CHICAGO STREL AWATTING FURTHER INFORMATION LEGAT, PARIS,

RE INVESTIGATION THERE OF FUEGER'S USE OF FALSE IDENTIFICATION.

CHICAGO DESIROUS OF OBTAINING FULL DETAILS RE CAUSE OF

INVESTIGATION, SWITZERLAND AND FRANCE, AND ALSO ANY STEPS TAKEN

BY ALEX IN HIS BEHALF MAY DISCLOSE REAL INTEREST IN

SWITZERLAND. NOTE UPON ARRIVAL, U.S. CUSTOMS, CHICAGO,

FUEGER HAD THREE MINK COATS AND EXPENSIVE CLOTHING CONTAINING

NO LABELS AND EIGHT PIECES EXPENSIVE JEWELRY, NOT IDENTIFIED.

BUREAU REQUESTED TO ADVISE LEGAT, BERN. AND PARIS RE ABOVE

REQUESTING ALLINFO SINCE CHICAGO WISHES TO EXPLORE ALL

REG: 1399

MAR I1 1965

3°

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be

disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45679 DooId: 32556633 Page 1

---

