# docid-32295484

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK. Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10215-10260

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

HQ

92-6054-456

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE :

FBI

WILGUS, JOHN P.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 09/30/1963

' PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS:

LCN, ASSOC, BKG, CRIMINAL ACT, RACK AND SUBV,

TESUR, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32295484

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-289774-5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

DATE

9/30/63

REPORT MADE BY

JOHN P. WILGUS

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/10/63 --9/23/63

TYPED B

mt

LA COSA NOSTRA

NEWARK DIVISION

REFERENCES:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

CONSPIRACY

Report of SA JOHN P. WILGUS dated 6/17/63 at

Newark.

Report of SA JAMES P. FLYNN dated 7/1/63 at

New York. -

-P-

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU

Three (3) copies of a letterhead memorandum containing

confidential information furnished by NK 2251-C* and NK 2319-C*

and also two (2) copies of a letterhead memorandum characterizing

informant used in this report.

TO NEW YORK

Two (2) copies of a letterhead memorandum containing

confidential information furnished by NK 2251-C* and NK 2319-C*

and also two (2) copies of a letterhead memorandum characterizing

informant used in this report.

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-

16054-456

REC- 32

4102

6007 1 1003

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

3/Bureau (32-6054) (s

New York (92-2333)

(Enc. 4)

1

2

Boston

(Info)

(Enc. 1)

Newark (92-1203)

cores pretenta

110 NAA20 love

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

Notations

DocId: 32295484 Page 2

---

## Page 3

I-leaseu

wet the bolt F. Kennety AssasSination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NK 92-1203

recovered and fled the country. The assassination was allegedly

at PROFACI's orders.

The 1937 Newark City Directory lists a DOMENICO

D'AMICO as Director of the D'Amico Macaroni Company, 34 Drift

Street, Newark. GASPARE is listed as President of this

• company.

Newark files also show that on 1/24/58, Lt. LEON

NEIDORE madé available Essex County Prosecutor's Office murder

Dad 210 da

files, number 247, 248 and 249. These files showed that

VINCENZO TROIA, his stepson, JOSEPH TROIA, and FRANK LONGO,

of 109 North 15th Street, Bloomfield, New Juisey, were murdered

at 10:57 AM, 8/22/35, in a candy store located at 317 South

6th Street, Newark, N. J.

An article appearing in the "Newark Evening News"

on 8/23/35 noted that VINCENZO TROIA was reported to be the

operator of the Two Eagles Italian lottery, one of four such

lotteries operated in the City of Newark.

The bodies of

VINCENZO and JOSEPH TROIA were claimed by Brooklyn undertaker,

CHARLES C. CATALANO, and were shipped to Italy for burial.

The above information is submitted to assist in the

evaluation of that furnished by NY T-2 in referenced report,

7/1/63. Although informant's information concerning the fact

that D'AMICO and the TROIAs met violent deaths is substantially

correct, it does not appear that TROIA could have been

responsible for D'AMICO's death since TROIA was himself killed

eighteen

months earlier.

Cases have been opened to identify and determine

the activities of Dr. PHILIP NOTO, DANNY NOTO, FRETCHIE (LNU)

and HAPPY (LNU) (believed to be JOSEPH BELLINO) , all reportec

by NK 2319-C* to be members or potential members of Cosa

Nostra.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NK T-1

NK 2366-C

The sources utilized in enclosed letterhead

memorandum are identified as NK 2319-C* and NK 2251-C*,

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32295484 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-201

• F.D-204.(Rev. 3-3-59)

UNI

ID STATES_DEPARTMENT OF

_STICE

-FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

Office:

JOHN P.

9/30/63

92-1203

WILGUS

LA COSA NOSTRA

NEWARK DIVISION

Bureau File #:

Newark, New Jersey

92-6054

Character:

Synopsis:

ANTI-RACKETEERING -

CONSPIRARY

A confidential source advised that RAYMOND PATRIARCA has made

plans to "get" an individual whom source believes to. be JOSEPH

VALACHI. PATRIARCA reportedly contacted source to enlist his

aid in providing unknown persons from Chicago and Detroit with

transportation.

However.

there have been no further develop

ments to date. LOUIS

PERRINI, Inmate, New Jersey State

PriSon, Trenton, Ned.,

h-Anterviewed 9/10/63 and amplified

previous information regarding his witnessing a secret

initiation at New Jersey State Prison in about 1956.

Participants in this ceremony identified.

-p .

DETAILS:

On August 20, 1963, NK T-I advised that during the

week end of august 17-19, 1963, he had been in Providence,

Rhode Island, where GUIDO ZARLANGA introduced him to RAYMOND

PATRIARCA. The informant has been in contact with ZARLANGA

several times recently and they have discussed various

criminal schemes. On this occasion, according to the informant,

PATRIARCA told of plans to "get the

guy" before he goes to

court to testify. The informant understood the reference to be

to JOSEPH VALACHI, who has made public disclosures about Cosa

Nostra. PATRIARCA said that the job was to be done by persons

unknown to NK T-1,

two from Chicago and two from Detroit.

The informant was

instructed to return to New Jersey and wait

until he was told when and where to pick up these persons

This document

nd provide then with transportatio.

then with transportation. is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32295484 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Redeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NK 92-1203

On August 210 1063,

NK T-l advised he had had a

telephone call from PATRIARCA who told him to "be ready,"

and that the two guys from Chicago were in Long Branch, New

Jersey

The informant assumed that these persons knew

how

to get in touch with him but had not done so as yet.

this time, the informant reported that he had no details how

the presumed assassination would be accomplished nor did

he know the identity of any of the individuals who would

participate. His role as hesaw it was to act as a driver only.

On September 4 and 5, 1963, NK T-l advised that

although he was under the definite impressic that it was

PATRIARCA's intention to "take care" of JOSEPH VALACHI.

he

has heard nothing further from bim and now assumes that

PATRIARCA has decided that the plan is not feasible at

this

time.

Informant was contacted on September 9, 12 and

20, 1963,

and in each instance stated that he has heard nothing

from

• PATRIARCA nor from anyone else on this matter. NK T-1

gave his assurance that he would promptly report further

developments.

DocId: 32295484

Page 5

---

