# docid-32287068

## Page 1

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

...

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10196-10344

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 87-123892-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/22/1972

5

GAL, LIAISION, CG PDT, GAMBLING, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32287068

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Rereased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Reçords Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. 87-39425

CAITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Chicago.

NOV 24

linois

JACK WALSH

BART WALSH

BUDDY MC CARTHY

ITSP

received from Investigator Jim

chised that ee intonation cas furnished t

Investigator Tobin

to him by a source of

unknown reliability.

Tobin advised that this information is the

first information furnished to him by source but Tobin believes

information to be accurate and reliable.

Tobin stated

that

informant requested that information furnished by him be used in

a discreet manner as he fears for his personal safety if the

principals involved in this matter associate him as being the

source of information regarding their activities. Tobin stated

source would not testify concerning this information.

Source advised that Jack Walsh and his brother, Bart

walsh, have entered into a conspiracy with the Finance Minister

of the Canadian Government to defraud the Canadian Goverment

out of approximately four and a half million dollars.

involved in the conspiracy are ten additional unknown individuals

whose interests in this matter are unknown to the source at this

time.

The source was approached by Walsh to be one of the ten

but declined the invitation, although source remains close to

Jack Walsh.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the

FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents

are not to be distributed outside your agency; nor

duplicated within your agency.

87-123897-2

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32287068

Page 2

---

