# docid-32286246

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10195-10022

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1363

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

03/21/1964

3

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, ASSOC, MED, OC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32286246 Page 1

70

---

## Page 2

SPECTAL INVESTIGATT

DIVISION

3-23-64

Informant is

former Alderman, City of c

Chicago,

currently Democratic Ward

Committeeman, 28th Ward, Chicago.

OTHER 4

'ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

NW 45792 DocId: 32286246

Page 2

---

## Page 3

13 (Fig 32-62)

(

11/

AIRGRAM

DECODED

СОРУ

• CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

XX TELETYPE

mas

sit

+-1

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad

Gale

Rosen 1

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter .

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy =

10:21 AM CST DEFERRED 3-21 - 64 JLS

TO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO

200910

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

CG 6498-C-TE ADVISED THAT LATE ON THE NIGHT OF MARCH 18 LAST,

HE WAS: SURREPTIOUSLY

CRIMINA

THAT

IERNTACTED BY JACKACERONE.

CERONE SEVERAL

TIMES INFORMED

"DID NOT WANT GIANCANA TO KNOW OF

CONTACT: AND CI SHOULD INFORM NO ONE OF CONTACT. MENTIONED

SEVERAL THINGS SUGGESTING TO CI "SOMETHING IS GOING ON IN. THE 9,

OUTFIT" AND SPECIFICALLY MENTIONED BAD HEALTH OF FRANK

CI FEELS THAT CERONE WAS FEELING CI OUT TO DETERMINE EXTENT OF

CI'S LOYALTY TO GIANCANA AND HOODLUMS CLOSE TO GIANCANA.. NOTED

THAT CI GREW UP INADJACENT RESIDENCE AND WAS FAIRLY CLOSE

BOYHOOD FRIEND OF CERONE. V

CI SPECULATED THAT THERE MAY BE IMPENDING SHAKEUP IN

ORGANIZED CRIME HERE AND THAT CERONE PROBABLY FEELS THAT HE IS

DATE4-2

CONTENDER FOR TOP SPOT SHOULD GIANCANA BE REPLACED. NOTE THAT

EREIN

SOURCES HAVE ADVISED THAT INFO RE HEALTH OF FERRARO IS CLOSELY

HELD SECRET AND THAT HUMPHREYS OBVIOUSLY IS UNAWARE THAT CERONE

JENOWS. V

CI FEELS THAT CERONE IS CERTAINLY ONE OF 23 HOODLUMS HERE

ЕШНО

ARE LOGICAL SUCCESSORS TO GIANCANA, IF STORIES OF

GIANCANA'S REPLACEMENT HAVE ANY ACCURACY. CI ADVISED THAT NOT

CONLY IS CERONE AN INTELLIGENT, ARTICULATE PERSON WHO READS EVERY

ED

91!

923171=1363

• MAR 24 1964:

6

57 APR 2

1984

1-108

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45792 DocId: 32286246

Page 3

---

