# docid-32578785

## Page 1

AIRIEL

CONFIDENTIAU

PLAIN TEXT

AIR MAIL

AUG 3 0 1962

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (113-7-210)

SAG, MIAMI (105-2878)

MILITARY AND NAVAL MATTERS - CUBA

Elen a . 9685 AlFCI

Declassily on: OADR7/31/05

AJ.L

• INZORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPI THERE SSO WN

OTHERWISE

Enclosed herewith are ten coples of a letter-

head memorandum, dated and captioned as above.

On August 29, 1962, MM 492-$, who is acquainted

with both pro- and anti-CASTRO activicles in Cuba and

the U.S., and who has fumished sellable information in

the past, made available to SA JAMES D. HAYES a typed,

printed sheet captioned: "Communist Plot of Actack on

the United States," dated August 15, 1962.

On the

reverse side of this paper appeared

the same message

typewritten in the Spanish language.

MM 492-S advieed that he received this material

from RAFAEL AGUIRRE, representative of the Christian

Democratic Movement

in the Miami area.

MM 492-S stated

that he had not observed this or any similar material

being distributed, and actually, AGUIRRE only had two

copies in his possession, of which he kept one.

3

Bureau (Encl. • 10) (AM • RM)

1.

New York (Incl. = 1)

• (info) (AM • RM)

1 = WPO (Enol. • 1) (info) (AM - RM)

3 - Miami (2 - 105-2878

1 = 134-44-Sub A)

JDH: ems

(8)

ENCLOSURE

CONFIDENTIAL

97-4110-

NOT RECORDED

174 SEP ry 1962

ORIGINAL, FILED IN

HH

45872

DocTd: 32578785

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 105-2878

An additional copy of the attached letterhead

memorandum is furnished to the Bureau for distribution

to the British authorities in Nassau, Bahamas. (C)

The Bureau is requested, through liaison with

the British,, to attempt to determine the source of this

material and identify the "Anti Communist Underground

General Headquarters: Bahamas," and determine if there

Is any substance to this allegation.

Copies of this letterhead memorandum are being

furnished to New York and WrO for informational purposes,

in view of their continuing interest in Cuban matters.

Miami will maintain contact with MM 492-S

in an effort to determine the original source of this

material.

Copies of this letterhead memorandum have been

furnished to the local offices of INS, CIA, G-2, ONI,.

OSI, Customs and Border Patrol.

CONODENTIAL

HH

45872

DooId:32578785 Page 2

---

