# docid-32296857

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10218-10133

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 162-1606-8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

07/07/1967

10

DVC, TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS, RES, EMP, BKG,

CRIMINAL ACT, RCK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/11/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

MY 45748

Docid: 32296857

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 10-29-63)

CONFIDENIIAL

...

FBI

Date:

717/67

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

(Priority)

TO

:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TERETING UNCLASSHIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

FROM

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (162-1606)

SAC, NEW YORK (162-1408> (RUC)

DINO VINCENT-CELLINI

INTERSTATE GAMBLING ACIIVITIES

DENY

copies

to Los

5/23/671,

the Legat, Ottawa,[and a copy of a letter

dated 5/18/67, from

the Royal Canadian Mounted Police

n Ottawas:

1-

Enclosed are six copies of a LHM containing a

AIVI.

SLIP(S

DATE

the investigation requested in referenced communications.

The information with respect to the subscribers to NY

telephone numbers was furnished to SA FRANK J. MEYERS by

Mr. WILLIAM R. ENNIS,

Security Supervisor, New York

Telephone Company, 104 Broad Street, NYC,

NY, on 6/8/67•

The information with respect to these

telephone subscribers is not to be made public except in

the usual proceedings following the issuance of a subpoena

duces tecum directed to Mr. WILLIAM R. ENNIS.

The investigation at the Credit Bureau of

Greater New York was conducted by SA MICHAEL M. MC DONELL:On

6/13/67.

-

Bureau (162-1606) (En

1

New York (162-1408)

NO A SURE

ST: 10229, 07 T

JLT: RM

(5)

REC-42

1421606=8

F1A JUL 8 11957

•291

82JUL 19 1967

Approved:

REASON - FOIN

11. 1-2,4.

DATE OF REVIEW:

5-24-94

CONFIDENTIAL

Classifted by SpS MAC/ISR

Declassifysent

OADR /

Special Agent in Charge

(JFK,)

Ei

Per .

NW 45748 DocId: 32296857 Page 2

---

## Page 3

JAITHACIIAOD

CONFIDENTIAE

NY 162-1408

The files of the Bureau of Criminal Identification,

NYCPD, were checked by SA AUGUST J. MICEK on 6/12/67, and

7/3/67.

The organization which maintains records relative

to business concerns in the Greater NY area as set out in

the enclosed LHM is CSNY-1 (Dun and Bradstreet

Inc.),

Hicksville, LI, NY.

This information was furnished to St

FREDERICK

W. KUHLMAN on 6/30/67, by the manager, ARTHUR

PRESCOTT.

The records of the Nassau County NY PD were checked

on 7/3/67, by SA ARTHUR D. KEEFE, JR.

The confidential source mentioned in the LHM as

furnishing background information on PHILIP

• BORELLI of

Hempstead Motors. Corporation is

who has two

brothers on the Nassau County PD, and is an employee of the

Hempstead Motors Company. He was contacted

on 7/6/67, by SA

ARTHUR

• D. KEEFE, JR.

The files of the NYO indicate NY reference 100-0-8641,

captioned "GEORGE MUHLSTOCK, SECURITY MATTER - C", reflecting

that

on 2/28 and 3/1/54, WALTER WINCHELL, the newspaper

columnist, furnished a 3 x 5 card to the Los Angeles Office

of the

FBI reading GEORGE MUHLSTOCK, 21 S 40th Street, NIC,

8/22/45, $100.00.

This card had been furnished to WALTER WINCHELI

by an informant who had searched the office of HARRY MAGDOFF,

a Security Index subject of the NYO. The significance of the

card was unknown.

The information with respect to FELIX BORELLI, aka

was contained in NY File 92-4191.

This information was

furnished to the NYO by the Buffalo Office by letter dated

12/29/65, Buffalo File 92-716.

The remainder of the investigation was conducted by

SA JAMES L. THORNTON.

OTHER 4

- 2-

:

ПАСТОРУТАЙ

NW 45748

DocId: 32296857

Page 3

---

