# docid-32361858

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10119-10427

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

T. Kennedy

Assassination Records

collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:NW 53294 Date:

06-14-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : LA DIVISION/ SECURITY

TO

: OFFICE OF SECURITY,

OSB

TITLE : OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIPS, MEMO: DEBRIEFING ON TRAINING &

DEMOLITIONS GIVEN TO ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN EXILES.

DATE : 01/26/1977

PAGES

: 10

SUBJECTS : HEMMING GERALD

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

PAPER

SECRET

1A

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

05/25/04

JFK43

: F4 : 20040225-1048877

[R]

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10119-10427

HH 53294

DocId: 32361858

Page 1

---

## Page 2

n. ae.

FENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFIE

ONi TOP ANO BOTTOTI

UNCLASSIFIED

COM. NENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO

1

2

NAME AND ADDRESS

C/0515

DO/SSD

DATE

INITIALS

He dan

3

5

C5A6

TEARDON

26jam3h

6

ACTION

APPROYAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGHATURE

Remarko: ''LOGAY'S FILE WAS REVIENEO. NO IUDIEMTION

1E WMS ELER INTERViENES

CONZERUINE dON CONINE.

2. TITERE IS DE MECONO OE 1 GAKY MADDOY

AS AGENEY EMPLOYEE, GHRY MADDOX IS

REPERREN TO1U CANLOS KROM WIETNAM

lN TIrE PRE OF PATNICE DUTREY. MADOOX MAS

EMPLOYED RY COMPUTER SCIENCÉ CORO

1N1971 ASSIONEO NS A MILiTONY RESIÓNAL

AWALyST@UVIETNAM.FOK HIO PROTEET,

CASCES DEMT wiTH SMNGELINE RETTUITIES

Iziue- FYE

DF EX-SPOUSE MARY MAODOX, A ViÉTUNESE.

ard

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO

SwiFT

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

106N0. 237

1-67

Use previous editions

RUSGPO: 1976-202-953

DATE

4/26/77

SECRET

(40)

NH 59287 DocId532261858 Paue

---

## Page 3

TO

1

3

SENDER WILL

CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLA

FIED

CONFIDENTIAL.

KET

OFFICIAL, ROUTING SI

NAME AND ADDRESS

INITIALS

05B

2н. бирі

Very the Eat

ten ind

5

6

Lyrich

ACTION

APPROYAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

c2%70

DIRECT NEPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMAIENDATION

RETURN

I SIGNATURE

Pls note 16 on ex CIA tyres

nour with DEA - is LASAY

one of the guys we talked to

on Lue nume

Whon Gary Maddox-soont

return to us??

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE N

UNCLASSIFIED

ror-oNo. 237 Use previous editions

A TE

CONFIDENTIAL

122/24

SECRET

(40)

RUSGPO: 1976-202-953

---

## Page 4

1

2

3

1

SENDER

UNCLA

CHECH CLASSIFICATION TOR.0MO

BOrION

SECRET

OFFICE BOUTSO 9110

ONE ANE SODRESS

05/056

17C S5S

PATE

INITIALS

19227/44

ACTION

AFPROVAL

COR PIENT

CONCURPENCE

CIRECT REPLY

DISFATCH

FII.E

INFORSIATION

PRECARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGMATURE

Remarke:

You your retenters ar!

pendenge do 21298700 tales

the might hone

enteres

en! attachinent.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

DATE

UNCLASSIFIED

rOMMO. 237 Use previous editions

CONFIDENTIAL.

SECKET

BUSGRO: 1976-- 202-953

(40)

NH: 53291

---

## Page 5

17 January 1977

CONTACT REPORT

#HO

Mr. Grayston Lynch, former staffer

8709 Bay Pointe Drive

Tampa, Florida 33615.

813-884-8610

SUBJECT:

Debriefing on Training and Demolitions Given to Anti-

Castro Cuban Exiles

PLACE : Holiday Inn (Iampa Airport)

Tampa, Florida

TINE : 14 January 1977

0900 - 1445 hours

1.

Purpose: To debrief Mr. Lynch on questions posed by the

Department of Justice regarding anti-Castro Cuban exiles.

These

questions, in general, covered training and explosives/detonation

derides

given to these exiles.

2. Meeting: Mr. Lynch came to my motel room (503) on Friday

morning at 0900 and departed at 1645. During this time, both of us

sat in easy charis in front of a picture widow on the 5th foor - Mr.

Lynch did 956 of the talking. Neither of us got up during this period,

a strech of almost 8 hours.

Lynch was most intertaining, but only

marginally infornative as to specific details on the questions probed

to him. He spins a good story and remenbers people and places very

well.

My bona fides for the meeting was a call from Ms. Sheila

O'Neil to Lynch a day before I arrived in Tampa. Lynch is a little

goosy, because of a DEA connection (below), and checked me out thru

a phone call to the motel by his wife. Incidentally, I used truo

name with Lynch.

3.

Results: Lynch covered the following topica with me:

a. Training: On Panama and the facilities used, & the best

Lynch could remember,

Ft. Shernan was open in about Aupust or

September 1960 to train Cubans for about a 2 to 3 month period.

There were about 40 to 50 men, mostly ARTIME followers.

Whon it was

decided a bieger group would be needed, which later became Brigade

2506, these people were sent to Rotalhuleu (Gustomala) ardxatk in

about November 1960. Actually, the group was split, with some going

to Guatemala and others. to the New. Orleans area.

As to other training

in Panama, Lynch has no knowledpe.. (NOTE:

Lynch

supgested that Mr.

Robert Moore, retired staffer currently in the New Orleans area,

might be a good source.

Moore was C/Ops for the invasion Task Force,

as weel as Deputy for PM and C/Ops for JIWAVE at one time.)

SE-E-R-D-T

NW 53291. PocId(92361850

1age 4

2 29512

---

## Page 6

!:.

Supplier:

As lo explosives, tino dola: fuses, remole

control devises, detonation materials, etc. riven to there exilos,

Lynch said, "Look over the

supply manual. for that time." Apparently,

the exiles

were given

everything that was available and in large

quantities.

Lynch said he just could not begin to give me a list

of what had been passed.

c.

Infil Teams: After the Bay of Pirs invasion, Lynch

workerl with infiltration teams.. The. Mency worked with these teams

from roughly 1963 to 1956.

Thoy were in two catapories. The first

were unilateral teams, training and sponsored by the Mency. The

other catagory was "political" toans - that is political groups in

southern Florida who were sponsoring infiltrations into Cuba.

The Agency helpod this later a catapory by riving them supplies.

In the case of both, they usually made a caches in Cuba. The

unilateral team, as an example, would make a cache on-island, and

another group would pick it

up and use it (compartnentation).

In some cases, teams (both unilateral and olitical) would not.

actually make the cache and keep the material in florida, to be

used later at their

own convenience, In addition, lynch

was. positive

that some of Castro's troops obtained some of these caches, due to.

foul-ups and snitches.

These caches containes pistols, rifles and

heavier, money and demolitions. Some of the teams cheated by going

to the Bahamas and burying their stuff on small islands and reporting

back to Florida that they had cacher in Cuba.

Lynch stated several

times that there was no effective control over the "political"

groups and therefore no control ofer the material riven them.

this, me may surmise that Agency equipment (demolition included) was

in the hands of anti-Castro Cubans in south Florida, as well as

Castro's Rebel Army on-island.

d. Brigade Training: Further to demolition training to

Anti-Castro Cubans, Lynch reminded me that shortly after the Brigade

was ransomed from Cuba, Brigade leaders were taken to Palm Beach

and talked with President Kennedy.

At that time, the US Govt offered

Brigade members. the chance to join the U.S. arily.

This also included

infil team members, who were completely seperate from the Brigade, and

members of the Brigade airforce.

The Army end of this training was

given 'at Ft. Banning, Georgia and beran in early 1963.

There, Brirade

members entered the U.S. Army at roubly equivalent ranks - officers

were made 2nd Lts. They received Ranger trainine, plus jump trainina.

Thus, Lynch said, if any exiles wore trainine in demolations and related

topics, thete best training was probahly givon at Ft. Benning.

11o5t

of these men were in the,U.s. Army for either 6 months or one year.

Cubana Bombing: Lynch was specifically asked about the

6 October 1976 bombing the of the Cubana airliner in the Baribbean.

Lunch said the street-word abong the Cuban community in south Florida

Is that the bomb should have gone off in the plane on the ground.

bombers did not mean to kill all of those people. On BOSCH, the

community does not particularly like him, but admires him because he

had been going at Castro tooth and nail for years. They do not like

the idea of terrorism and fault BUSCH and MORALES for this.

SE€

NH. 53294

DocId:323618

---

## Page 7

. = 3-

r.

lynch liar read the recent articles in the

papers about the introduction of Svine Fover into Cuba by tho Arency

in 1972. Ha had

no knowledre of this. Lynch did ask if to had

checked' with DIA??? Ho said when he had been with the Army as a

Special Forces type, it was unbelievable what the Army had done

in tho way of Bio Warfare training in the States.

He mentioned am

nxcazzi a training exercise in NYC, when a fake substance was into.

duced into the. water of a hotel where Pres. Eisenhower was staying.

In any event, tank Lynch said if Swine Fever had been introduced

into Cuba, he wouldn't doubt that the Army/DIA had cone hand in it,

especially if the so-called sources claimed it came out of Ft. Gulict..

Assassinations by the Agoncy: Lynch sairl he had absolutely

no knowledge of assassinations, attempts or plans, by anyone in the

Agency during his tour.

Not only were they prohibited by the Agency,

they were counter-productive. It was explained to him during his

Adency tour that there was a good chance of an assassination back-

firing; that we (U.S.) are more vulnurable to assassinations than

the Cubans or Soviets. Therefore, as far as he was

concerned, they

were strictly verboten. Editorializin, Lynch said it was too bad

that the upper-echoloasdid not believe in this restriction.. On top

of that, they approacher mafiosa to help them. (NOTE: Lynch is

rather anti-Kennedy, especially Bobby, with whom he was in a shouting

match during a hearing on the Bay of Pigs invasion.)

h. Assassination of Peruyero:

Juan Jose Feruyero, a Bay

of Pigs veteran and leader of the Brigade 2506, was punned down last

week as he loft his home in Miami. Lynch said

the word on the street

this was done by the DGI as a varnir:

into drugs, crime, politics, etc. By killing him, the Cubans were

warning the conunity that they could strike anywhere and anyone.

Thus, watch out and lay off Cuba and Cuban citizens.

If anyone else

had been killed, perhaps the killing could have been blamed on

the mafia, drug dealers, politicians, etc.

A copy of an editorial

from the Tampa Tribune of 14 Jan 77 is attached, below.

S-E-C-R-B-T

NW 53294

Poeld2s?9s

---

## Page 8

Tampa Tribune

14 Jan 77

Emergency in Miami

Murder is murder but assas.

sination is something else again.

It's an emergency.

Seven Cuban exile leaders

have been assassinated in Miami

in the past three years, five of

them in the last few months. Lat-

est to fall was Juan Jose Per-

Mero, a Bay of Pigs veteran and

• leader of Brigade 2506, gunned

down as he left his front door

last week.

the resources of a local law en-

forcement agency.

That is why Miami police,

wisely, have appealed to U.S. At-

torney General Edward Levi in

allow FBl intervention in the in-

vestigation of the unsolved kil.

lings.

Federal intervention is not. as

widely believed, automatic in as.

sassination cases. The murder of

a private person, even the politi.

Mindless murder is a purely

cal assassination of a man on the

¡local police

street, is not a Federal offense.

matter.

But the

coolly calculated multiple politi-

Before the FBl can enter the

case. Levi must declare that the

cal assassinations, not to men. Miami murders constitute an

tion assassination attempts, in

the city that Cuban refugees

"emergency."

adopted, are admittedly beyond

They do, it is and he should.

(NOTÉ: If not already done, it might be a good idea to look into

the background of Peruyero, as far as the Agency is concerned, if

the FBl is actually stopping into this case. Naturally, they will

come to us for information.

S-E-C-R-E-T

1V 53291

DocId

323618

---

## Page 9

nt 1077750713939

5

i.

Assassination of Lettalier:

while on assassinations,

this case entered Lynch's conversation.. He has no personal knowledge

of what happened.

Again, howover, he rave me the "street word."

In Miami, the Cuban cormunity is saying that the same people who did

in ROSSELI performed the Lottaller assassination. Santo Traficante

arraned for the lottalior killing - hired and paid the killers.

For this reason, the Chicago family of the Mafia is furious with

Traficante, because he is/or will bring heat on the Mafia.

reason for Traficante doing it??? Fidel Castro hired him and paid

him well to do it.

The word is that Traficante has been cooperating

with the DGI and Fidel since he doparted Cuba.

Fidel wanted Rossgli

killed, because of Rosseli's part in the assassination attempt against

Fidel.

Lynch emphasized that that this is not his theory, but word

from the street in Miami.

on the "Legacy of the Bay of Pigs," which should be broadcast in

so go on ran not not do i ran

about May 1977. CBS has already shot scanx interviews in Miami,

including one with Peruyero: (above) before.he-was.killed, plus

covering the aftermath of his assassination. Currently, the CBS

crew is in Cuba - they hope to film the beaches. at the Pay of Pigs -

which had been suggested to them by Lynch. Lynch has also been

interviewed and has given his opinions for the TV showing.

while

in Cuba, the CBS crew hopes to also interview Fidel - also at the

suggestion of Lynch. The fellow behind the show is named CRILE and

he has talked to Lynch extensively.

According to Linch, the show

would have been very anti-Agency in its comments, but he (Lynch)

has turned this around almost 180 degrees!!! As planned, the

show will be two hours and shown in May 1977.

k.

Brigade 2506: On the Brigade, Lunch said he had been

an apolitical organization. Individuals of any political shade had

been members and politica had not really entered Brigade Association

business.

Last year, however, they joined with Orlando BOSCH, among

others, to help form CORU. Now, the Brigade is embarrassed and wished

they had never joined .CORU. They with-drew shortly after the Cubana

bombing in October 76. However, the damage has been done to the

Brigade Association, which Lynch considers a shame.

On the CBS film

(above), Lynch said he was filmed attending an anniversary meeting.

This same meeting was where CBS filmed Peruyero.

Lynch & DEA: when Lynch retired from the Agency, ho

moved to Key Wast. He came to the attention of DEA, especially to

Lou Conine; an ex-Agency officer now with DEA. Lynch calls Conine

an SOB and worse.

He went into a long explaination of his activities

with DEA in Key West. • In summary, he was a P/A and

ran a string of

informants.

Because of internal DEA politics, he was blown and left

dangling. on a string in Key West. He had to leave town within 24

hours and left his people (informants) there without calline or

warning them.

As a result, he lost friends, prestige with his

informants (many of them Cuban exiles) and his business in Key. West.

In general terms, he was treated very shabbily by DEA and regrets

ever having mixed with them. He is still in contact with one of

S-E-E-R-EF

HH: 53294

DoeId:3236185

---

## Page 10

+ 4-6150 10929194

our ex-officer, Gary Haddox.. Noconline to lynch, Maldor will be

returning to the drency chorbly. Maddoy is familiar with the

operation in Key West.

Moother ex-Mency employee was also in-

volved in this operation, one Bill Loray. The undersinnes knew

Logay in Viotnam - he sas a contract employee at about GS-8. With

DEd he muickly rose to GS-l4 and was directing the Key vest operation.

When it folded, according to Lunch, Logay was busted to GS-13 and

sent rack to dashington, where he is now working in DEA's Inspection

Division (similar to our IG Staff). Lynch was also aware of another

ex-Agoncy employee, (Inu) Rodriquez, who was to eo to lexico under

DEA "deep cover".

According to Lunch, Rodriguez was to be involved

in assassination

operations arainst Mexican dealers and pushers.

Instead, Rodriguez ended up in El Paso for about a year and is now

in Miami.

The undersigned personally knew kodriguez, but did not

know of his specific assignment within DEA.

(NOTE:

while the above

is a little rambline, this is the way the debriefing of Lynch went

all afternoon!)

.т.

Lynch's Manuscript: Ihad read lynch', mnuscript,

"The Bay of Pigs" before departin, Washington.

Lynch oxplained that

he had dictated this paper and had a couple of secrotaries type it

out. It is only in very rough form and he wanted to get his thoughts

down on paper.

As he indicates in the paper, he wanted to get the

facts straight.

He feels that since he was there and part of the

invasion, he has a unique veew point of the Bay of Pigs and wants

to see that history raflects his potition.

As indicated

earlier,

Lynch is rather bitter

against the New Frontier, the Kennedys and

Canelot. This is reflected in his manuscript. Lynch claimed that

much of his paper had been "stolen" in that he explained the invasion,

for instance, to

the CBS crew and they were using some of his material

in the soon to hun be shown program described above.

Lynch ment toned that he had spoken to the weney historian can't

recall his name - on who is also writing a book (classified) on the

invasion.

As to publication, it seems to be in the dirtant future.

He does not plan to po to a publisher, where he would xer raceive

royalty payments of around 5%.

Rather, he plans to publish on his

own, probably in Miami, and realize close to 100% profit.

It might

cost him the in the area of $5,000, but he could realize a profit of

about $30,000 depending on sales.

n.

Misc.: Lynch also spoke about porsonalities within the

Arency.

He mebtioned Ted Shackley, "Dum'Dum" immer, many people in

LAD who had

a part in the invasion

or JMWAVE. Lynch is a member of

the retired Agency employees association that Dave Phillips formed.

As such, he has appeared several times on Tampa radio and TV shows.

To me, he appears to be an articulate defender of the Agency.

4. Conclusion: For me, this was a most interesting interview.

As far as results, the interview indicated to me that we can got

broad-brush overviews from retired Agency employees, and few details.

To answer specific questions from Congress and/or the Department of

Justice, we must continue to dig and come up with docunents from

S-D-0-A-E-+

HH. 53294

Doeld

---

## Page 11

_7.-

¡enci filos. Unfortuneatly: these riocuments appear to be most

difficult to locate and retriova, many of them burled in retired

file holdings.

Recoumendations: ie should continue to seek information

Iron retired Arency employees, especially when it appears that they

intimately involved in the pacticular event or activity in

ishich we are interested.

This should be a selective process and

used only when ve believe the retiree could contribute to our

immediate inquiry.

The documented facts, however, are still needed

to answer questions posed to us officially by other Government

entities.

51.1.

Grady A. Vickers, (jr)

LA/Ops

53294

Docta

632361858

---

