# docid-32340938

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10221-10331

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-1423-1ST NR 16

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM:

LEG, HAVANA

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/07/1958

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

IID, ARMS SALES, CUBAN GOVERNMENT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32340938

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

135

Direetor, FBI

November 7, 1056

115-91

gat; Ravana (109-12)

SEXIET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION O

DADR

DOul

DECLASSI

INCARAN ANS/OR

CUBAN POLITICAL ACTIVITIES,

RELEASES CAme Rense,

FOREIGN POLITICAL HATTER - CUBA

IN THIS DOCUMENT. Jr 9-15-97

SED SR 1-20-9809F10

Enclosed are seven copies of a letterhead memorandum

reporting information which was furniched by Lleutenant Colonel

MARIANO FAGET,

Director of the Cuban Bureau for the Repression of t

Communist Activities (BRAC), on November 7, 1950,

TAGIT's identity

was concealed by a c; symbol

but the source

has not been evaluated

in sepazate menorandum as he was identified in the body of the

letterhead memorandum as a confidential source abroad,

Careful consideration has been given to the T symbol

used in this memorandum and it was utilized only because the

& source must be concealed.

The Bureau's attention 1s called to Havana letter entitled

*I. IRVING DAVIDSON,

FOREIGN MISCELLANEOUS," dated February 21, I958,

advising that Colonel FAGET bad requested background information on

DAVIDSON.

The Bureau roplied to this lotter in Letters dated March 0,

3

W and March 13, 1958 (Bufile 2-1423) advising that. Bureau files contained

no pertinent information on DAVIDSON.

Colonel TAGET at the time of contact on November 7, 1958,

advised he would appreciate any information we could furnish concerning

memorandun.

the backeround of . ConNy ho is referred to in the enclosed (Elu)

Two extra coples of this letter and the enclosed memorandur

are submitted to the Bureau for forrarding to the New York office.

is requested, subject to Bureau approval, that the New York office

furnish any availeblo information on (coralin form suitable for DU)

dissemination to Colonel FAGIT as a matter of cooperation with

him.

It is suggested that the Bureau make inquiry to determine 11 COHENJU

has made appropriate registration as a foreige agent.

Information contained in the enclosed monorandum has been

disseminated to the following offices in the U. S. Embassy:

Ambassador, Counselor of Enbassy,

and the U.S. Tronsury representative.

CIA, Army, Naval and Alr Attaches,

The enclosed memorandum has been classified contidential

in order to protect identity.

61/source.

Enclosures - 7

4 - Bureau

ENCLOSURE

12-147

•2 » Havana

NOT RECORDED

50 NOV19#

(5)

SEUN

191 NOV 17 958

99T-1033)

NW 54027 DocId: 32340938

Page 2

---

