# docid-32283881

## Page 1

Date: 09/24/93

Page: 367

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : DOS

RECORD NUMBER

: 1191000110478

RECORDS SERIES :

DS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 39-141-122

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: FBI NEW YORK

TO :

TITLE

REPORT

DATE

PAGES

: 07/31/64

SUBJECTS:

OSWALD, LEE HARVEY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/17/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

FBI REVIEW

COMMENTS :

FBI Documents

[R] - ITEM RESTRICTED

HH 50529

DocId: 32283881

Page 1

---

## Page 2

..=

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

+ 1. =

81 in

UNITE STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INV

COM

NTACATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

VICTOR A. LEMAITRE

7/31/64

Field Office File #100-78633

Title:

ISIDORE GIBBY NEEDLEMAN

New York, New York

Office:

100-341652

Bureou File #:

X-20,21

Character:

INTERNAL SECURITY - R;

INTERNAL SECURITY ACT, 1950

Synopsis:

NEEDLEMAN continues to reside at 444 Central Park

West, New York CIty, and to practice law in his own office at

165 Broadway, New York City.

He continued to act as

legal advisor to Amtorg in tax case and other matters.

NEEDLEMAN was frequently consulted by EDA GLASER concerning.

Four continent Book corporavior

problems, and by LIUBA SOLOV

on taking over Sovroto Agency, (SHe collected money for

American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born and was

Interested in activities of Citizens Committee for

Constitutional Liberties. NEEDLEMAN was in frequent contact

leaders and supported fund raising

He was incensed by Commerce Department order

requiring licensing of food and drug shipments to Cuba.

NEEDLEMAN was in touch with JOSEPH BELSER, DAVID FREEDMAN,

ELIZABETH MASCOLO, ANNETTE RUBINSTEIN, WILLIAM I.

JAAND TA, /ALOXANDER SVENCHANSK (and numerous other individuals:

Bank accounts reviewed for April and May, 1964.

-P-39-141-122

DEPARTMENT OF STATES chern

AUG 6.

1964 1S

OFFICE OF SECURITY

iles ot

INTELISIT PRISING

OFFICE OF SEPIRITY

SEP -$ 1964

GROUP

1

"RESEARCH

FILE SECTION

Excluded

frOm

automatic

downgrading and

declassification

Reviewed on 3/28/99 (0L

Collection Act of 1992 (PL302-526)

1,20 1 21

releass o reassuration @ the donument i ful

The Department of State has no objection io the

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 50529 DooId:32283881 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 100-78633

MIRIAM FRIEDIANDER advised NEEDLEMAN on this

3. far

expected,

She stated that the petition campaign had been

launched, however, and that it promised to be an interesting

and important one.

MIRIAM FRIEDLANDER informed NEEDLEMAN that 'she was

calling a special meeting of the Advisony Committee of the

cccI for theesering of June 17, 1964, to discuss the meaning of

the supreme Court decision, as well as the petition campaign.

She Indicated that the CCCi desired to send a certain number

of signatures to the Republican Party National Convention

in July, and about 5,000 signatures to the Democratic Party

National Convention In August, She told NEEDLEMAN that they

were also considering sending these petitions, with as

many signatures as possible, to every congressman.

"National Guardian"

Early in May, 1964, NY I-2 advised that RUSS NIXON

asked NEHDLEMAN about the possible liability of the "National

Guardian" 1f 1t were to print an article based on a letter

MARK LANE was sending to the Warren Commission.

According to

NIXON, LANE claimed to have information that a story told by a

anitor who had seen LEE HARVYOSWAID at the time of the

assassination of President KENNEDY, November 22, 1903) was

actually a

• "phony"

story planted by the Secret Service.

NIXON told FEDLEMAN that he was planning to use this as an

exclusive news story. NEEDLEMAN was of the opinion that unless

LANE had an affidavit from the janitor or some such proof, the

janitor could bring suit against the paper.

He suggested

NIXON discuss this possibility with LANE.

that

= 20 -

HIH

50529 DocId:32283881

Page 3

---

## Page 4

-

NY 100-78633

During the early parta May, 1964, NY I-1 reported that

JAMES ARONSON advised NEEDLEMAN that he had returned (from

Cuba) on May 7, 1964, but that JANE MC MaNus had stayed lor an

anditional week and had taken a trip to the interior. She

was to return on May 14, 1964, via Prague, Czechoslovakia.

Iowards the middle of May, 1964, NY T-2 advised

that RUSS NIXON broached the subject to NEEDLEMAN of holding

a small gathering of 15 to 20 people with IRVING KAPLAN,

HARRY MAGDONE, and NEEDLEMAN acting as hosts, to hear JAne

MC MANUS and

• JAMES ARONSON talk about their

trip to Cuba and show

some slides.

NIXON said that the ultimate objective of this and

three or four similar informal gatherings was to raise funds

for the pre-sumines financial crisis of the paper.

NEEDLEMAN was enthusiastic about the idea and offered

the use of his apartment.

Some days later. NY I-l related that NEEDLEMAN

advised NIXON that he had

spoken with INVING KAPLAN and BEATRICE

MACDOrT and that 1'5 had been agreed that a "National Guardian"

fund raising party would be held in the NEEDLEMAN apartment on

June 3, 1964.

The above informant subsequently reported that

NEEDLEMAN invited ROBERT RUSCH to attend the

"National

1964.

NEEDLIVAN menarked that it had originally been planned

to hold the party in the NEEDLEMAN apartment.

RUSCH agreed to attend and to make a contribution. •

Towards the end of May, 1964, NY I-1 reported that

NEEDLEMAN asked JAVES ARONSON whether

MARK LANE had made any

new exposures concerning the LEE HARVEYTOSWAID case, but

ARONSON said there had been nothing

new and that he understood

LANE to be back in Europe.

=21=

HIH

50529 DooId:32283881 Page 4

---

