# docid-32392207

## Page 1

Date: 03/01/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10413-10050

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

,,,,.....==—

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53320 Date:

06-27-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

PROJECT LIFEAT BEGAN AS A TELTAP.

DATE

01/01/1900

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : LIFEAT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED wITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/21/98

COMMENTS

: JFK-RH08 : F152: 1998:08.21.08:10:53:186129

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10413-10050

HH 53320

DocId: 32392207

Page

---

## Page 2

LIFEAT

Project LIFEAT began in 1951 as a unilateral teltap

operation, starting with a single tap against the Soviet Legation

and, as of mid 1962, covered as many as 30 lines in a given month:

During the period August thru October 1963, 24 lines were covered.

Project LIFEAT ceased to provide coverage of the entire

Soviet official installation in June 1960 when the jointly run

project LIENVOY assumed that responsibility. This left LIFEAT free

to concentrate on suspected individuals and targets of interest

solely to the U.S.G., i.e. Soviet, Satellite and Cuban agents/

intelligence

operatives resident in Mexico City whose activities

were of operational or counterintelligence interest; the project

was not designed to provide positive intelligence information.

Although coverage of the official Soviet and Satellite and Cuban

installations became a joint operation with the Mexican government,

via LIENVOY, the LIFEAT project remained available to resume

coverage of those installations if necessary.

During the summer of 1962, a review of the project indicated

a growing need for increased CI/CE coverage of selected targets.

In addition to the operational targets described above.

Cuban

LIFEAT continued to provide information on the exile

other

and revolutionary groups active in Mexico, the travel of important

Communists particularly to Cuba and Iron Curtain countries, and the

travel of U.s. citizens, especially Communists and Leftists, to

Cuba. Through coverage of the American Communist Group in Mexico

(ACGM.), LIFEAT provided the FBI

with ever increasing amounts of

information on the leftist activities of relatives and friends of

the ACGM to resided in the U.S.

HH 53320 DocId:32392207 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LIFEAT (KDMANGO), Unilateral Teltaps

provided coverage of targets of special interest to the

Station (see list attached to correspondence).

the joint teltaps under LIENVOY covered the Soviet and

Cuban official installations, leaving LIFEAT free and available:

to concentrate on targets of CI/CE (ops etc) interest.

In considering whether or not CIA "did its job" the Project

provided the FBI with information on the leftist activities

of U.S. citizens in Mexico, and remained available to service

other

targets if

an

when

requested to do

SO.

HH 53320

DocId: 32392207 Page

3

---

