# docid-32286473

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10195-10249

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-2142

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

ROEMER, WILLIAM F. JR.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/17/1968

. 10

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ACT, TRA, RES, WHEREABOUTS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792

Docid: 32286473

Page 1

119

---

## Page 2

3-8-679

FEDERAL-

SUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

TLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

SAMUEL M

G IANCANA, aka

DATE

CONE)

87747/68

VESTIGATIVE

3/13/68

REPORT MADE BY

WILLIAM F. ROEMER

CHARACTER OF CASE

I PROPRIATE

AND FILED OF

6768E r

FOR

CLASSIFICATIOR

TYPED

Sr

ALL IRFORMATION CONTAINES

IEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

- 19-9434 05(1

911-0-2

SIFIED BY A

JFK)

EXIPT FROM. GD

DATE OF DECLASSINI

REFERENCE:

Report of SA WILI

LATE AGENCI

NS

F.

CORY.

3,33

TION INDECINITE

ROEMER dated

ALIP (S) 01

DATE

3/19/68

at Chicago

LEAD

APR

CHICAGO

ADVISED

AT CHICAGO PALE

the activities of GIANCANA.

ILLINOIS.

INFORMANT

618 REL

Source

DECLAS

5131)

T-1

Former PC 1

CONVIC.

AUTO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

-Bureau (92+3171)

(1-Legat, Mexico City)Y!

1 - USA, Chicago

26 C/

- Chicago (92-349)

CT. ASS.- & EXT.-37 6%

REASON-FCIM

1-2.4

DATE OF REVIEW

501-

Will continue

to

follow

, and

APPROFRIATE AGEnCIES

AND FIELD OFFICES

ADVISED BY ROUTING

Date of Contact SATE SeN

jag Agent

PROC

May

Classied by

5, 500

Special

Agent

DADA Per Release

WILLIAM F. ROEMER

190-4419-25

ACQUIT-

CASE HAS BEEN:

TALS

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR X YES E

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

LYES

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

5040143

92-3171°

3142

REC

REP

OFFICES ADVISED BEROUTI

OTHER 4

5 ALL PREORMATION COM

PROTRIATE AGENCIES ANDIRE

ED

:4 " MAY-16-196)

WEIN IS LATES

WHERE SHO

OTH

RNISE

*V

Notations ,

Agency

Request Recd.

ate Fid.

Fwd.

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

_CC. AAG, Criminal Division,

iOtsanized Crime and Racketeering

section,

50 JUN

Room a

- 1968

EBASSTITL

EXEMPT FROM CDS CAPEGORY

DATE OF DECT ASISIBICATI

TON INDREINITE

ITIA

* U.S. GOVERNMEN

PRINTING OFFICE 7007

0l20) 72

NW 45792 DocId: 32286473

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-349

Source

te of Contact

April 3, 1968

ADar Contacting Agent

Legat, Mexico

City

JORGE V. ROBLES

Chief of Inspection

Mexican Immigration De-

partment (upon receipt)

T -3

NY 4008-C-TE

March 4, 1968

Special Agents

DONALD A. RIVERS

and NICHELOS J.

LORE

- .B*

-

COVER PAGE

1o2-12512

NW 45792 DocId: 32286473 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-349

DETAILS AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

Investigation to determine whereabouts

Of SAMUEL M. GIANCANA. U

Cg T-l advised that he has not observed SAM

JIANCANA in the vicinity of his residence at 1147 South

Wenonah, Oak Park, Illinois, since GIACÄNA was incarcerated

in the Cook County Jail in May, 1965.

Cg T-l is in

position to observe the activity at 1147 South Wenonah

throughout the daylight and night hours.U

The following information was received in

information is based

of that government.

investigation conducted by officials

It was confirned

that the subject had come

to Mexico on various occasions and resided in the house

at Nubes Number 2, Colonia Rancho Tetela,

Cuernavaca.

This house is in the name of a company called, Nubes,

S.A. The person handling the sale of this house to Nubes

S.A. was RUTH DORENBERG-PENNIVICH, a real estate broker

residing at Virginia Fabregas Number 108, Cuernavaca.

Mexico

She

is a Mexican citizen with Mexican passport number

58354, issued August 17, 1965. She handled the sale

of this house and also continues to be congerned with

the administration of the property. She also sold

insurance for

Richard this.company.

U)and a garden tractor in the name of

Richard

not cooperative, but did furnishe

the information that one of subject's associates is a

[Mr (SCALZETTI,, and adso a Mrs. CANTAMAYA or CANTAMAYALA.

Her real name is believed to be CANTA DE GIMBEL, residence

Galeana Number 603, telephone 2-36-00, Cuernavaca, Mexico.

Subject also reportedly was associated with

the former owner of Nubes Number 2, a Mr. ALBERT ANDREAS.

Investigators also contacted Mr. and Mrs. BRUCE

VICKERS, who reside in the vicinity of Nubes Number 2,

and are

considered the administrators of property in the

Rancho Tetela sub-division. They claimed not

to

know the

identity of persons residing at Nubes Number

2

-*

- 2 -

CON

NW 45792 DocId: 32286473 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-349

Mr. OCTAVIO CISNEROS, residence Economia Number

14, telephone 48-02-94, Mexico City, and Club de Golf,

Lote 14, telephone 2-44-39, Cuernavaca, wasccontacted,

and advised that the only relation he had with the subject

whom he knew as SCALZETTI, was at the Club de Golf in

Cuernavaca.' He advised that subject sold him his golf

cart at this club many months ago.

Neither he nor the

administration of the golf club had seen subject at the

golf club for many months f(U)

It was determined

that the house next to the

VICKERS' house is owned by a Mr. ADAM KULIAKOUSKI and his

son, LEON, from Chicago, Illinois.

This house is

te now to lis

this house

Reportedly, subject used to visit

It was also determined that

the telephone at

2 is 2-64-87.

lhe only persons

in residence

at this location are servants Trently

It is noted that subject's attorney, JORGE

CASTILLO Z., has petitioned the Mexican Government to

review their decision not to grant subject immigrant status

in Mexico.

He denies that subject has any relation with

the underworld and claims that, although he formerly was

a part-owner of gambling casinos, he has been retired since

He claimed that since that time subject has been

persecuted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and

contended that subject could not be a criminal because

he has been residing in the United States and has not

been arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation for w

any crimes.

He claimed that subject had not returned to

Mexico since he was requested to leave in October of 19665

Apparently, based on the inquirdes being made

in Cuernavaca, CASTILLO contacted inspectors of Mexican

Immigration to inquire the basis for these inquiries.

He was asked

subject's whereabouts, and claimed he did not

know.

He at first indicated that he believed subiect was

traveling at unknown localities

in Europe,

but subsequently

hinted that subject was in Miami, Florida.

(4)

It is noted that most Mexico City

Miami flights

go through Mexican Customs and Immigration Inspection at

Merida, Yucatan, Mexico, and that information previously

reported indicated that

subject had been seen in Merida.

Sources have indicated that Merida is notorious for the

corruption in its Immigration and Customs inspections.

- 3 -

NW 45792 DocId: 32286473 Page

5

---

