# docid-32298168

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10220-10444

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-3167-10

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MADVAY, J. EDWARD

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/28/1958

PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

SMO, SM, OC, RACK AND SUBV, ASSOC, BKG, MIL, REL,

CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT, INDEX PAGES 17-18

v9.1

HH 45854

DocId:32298168 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Report Form

FD-263 (5-12-55)

Reporing Office

PITTSBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Office of Origin

PITTSBURGH

Date

3/28/58

Report made by

J. EDWARD MADVAY

CHARACTER OF CASE

Taxesia, Peto19, 24, 25-27 ;

3/6, 11, 18/58

Typed By:

r1

• ANTI-RACKETEERING

CHANGED:

ARTHUR

D. NELSON, was.

R-Arthur Domenid Nozzoillo

Synopsis:

Bysyrecords, Harrisburg, Pa., show unnamed male child NOZZOILLO.

oorn 3/29/14, at Pittsburgh, Pa.

Marriage records, Pittsourg:

show ARTHUR NOZZOILLO married ROSE CAFRO on 9/26/34, at Pittsburgh'

Subject registered Selective Service 1940 Long distance telephone

Neighborhood source

to cover subject's activities developed.

contacts identified: Results of spot fisurs set out.

On 3/6/58;

Superintendent, Pittsburgh PD, advised SAC WINTERROWD that NELSON

was an informant for PD.

on 3/11/58, It. JAMES, Pittsburgh PD,

advised NELSON had been

furnishing him information. NELSON's

financial arrangements with Top Hoodlum MICHAEL GENOVESE reported.

Photos of NELSON's residence and business establishments on file.

-P-

DETAILS:

The title of this case is marked changed to include as an alias the

name ARTHUR DOMENIC NOZZOILLO, as it appears in the records of T-l.

Special Agent

Approved

Copies made:

In Charge

Bureau ice det Pu ia bo

921

Do not write in spaces below

3161÷10

-

New York

Philadelphia

(92-566)

REG

. 89

EX-128 REC- 18

FX.170

2

- Pittsburgh (92-2344|78BY

MAR 31 1958

-COPIES MADE

DATE.

ISCH

FO SEA RE ME QUEST DATED EPEES

TO HSCA RE REQUEST DATED

(SEE BUTLE SITE 1S TAB.20

COPIES MADE,

RE

DATE. 6:8-78. BY.

- Mannari

5 9 MAY

291590 166

and Destro

FOR REVIEW AT FBIHQ AND/OR DELIVERY

COITO HSCA RE REQUEST DATED :2.

11/24/39

(SEE BUFILE 62-117290)

Property of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to

which loaned.

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1958 0-344750

NW 45854 DocId: 32298168

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-234

On February 19, 1958,

4310 Vista View, West

Mifflin, Pa., advised SA ROBERT A. VOEGE that she is

a close

associate of Top Hoodlum JOHN LA ROCCA and MICHAEL GENOVESE,

and is familiar with many of the individuals who meet with

these top hoodlums at the Red Eagle Club, formerly called

the Genovese Cocktail Lounge,

I stated that ARTHUR NELSON has patronized the aforementioned

lounge, and is a close associate of MICHAEL GENOVESE; however, he

has never been permitted to attend meetings of the "Top Men" in

the Pittsburgh rackets when such meetings were held in the lounge.

It is pointed out that NELSON and MICHAEL GENOVESE have been in

business together, operating Archie's Automatic Car Wash, and

hold property jointly; however, according to

NELSON is

not Included in Important meetings wherein MIKE GENOVESE 1s a

participant.

On February 24 and 26, 1958, spot physical surveillances were

conducted: on NELSON'S

residence, 1706 Georgetown Place, and on

his place of business, 8050 Bennett Street, Pittsburgh.

On August 24, 1957, NELSON's 1958 Ford stationwagon, bearing

Pennsylvania

Registration 776207, was seen parked in his drive.

At the same time a light tan Cadillac, 1956 or 1957 model, bearing

1957 Pennsylvania Tag 3H829, was also parked in NELSON's

driveway.

The Pennsylvania

Automobile Registration book shows that Number

3H829 is registered to E. C. WILLIAMS, 1732 South Wyoming Avenue,

Kingston, Pa.

On February 24, 1958, a blue 1956 or 1957 Cadillac With a cream

-colored top bearing 1957 Pennsylvania Tag 135A7, was observed

parked at Archie's Automatic Car Wash.

Tag No. 135A7 is registered

to MARY SCOLIERI, 634 Lincoln Avenue, Pittsburgh 6, Pa.,

according to the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Registration

i book.

On February 26, 1958, at about 2:34 PM, a young unidentified white .

male driving a black 1957 or 1958 Plymouth, was observed delivering

what appeared to be three bundles of adding machine tapes to SAM

RUSSO, the manager of the car wash at 8050 Bennett Street. About

ten minutes later another automobile, a Mercury, bearing License

567828, entered the Automatic Car Wash and went

through the same

procedures as the preceding car.

The 1957 Pennsylvania Motor

Vehicle Registration book lists

Pennsylvania License 567820 to

MILDRED MORANTE, 438 Nelbon Street, Pittsburgh 35, Pa.

OTHER 4

-9 -

HW

45854 DocId: 32298168 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-234

It is noted that EDDIE MORANTE is an employee at the Automatic

Car

wash.

At about 3:00 PM, NELSON arrived at the Automatic Car Wash in

his 1958 Ford

stationwagon, and about three minutes later,

departed for his

residence.

On February 26, 1958, SAM RUSSO was observed driving, what

appeard

• to be, a 1953 Ford, bearing Pennsylvania Tag 84NF7:

This tag is registered to SAM and MARY RUSSO, 2136 Laketon

• Road,

Pittsburgh 21,

pa..

It is believed that this

is the automobile

of SAM RUSSO, the

manager of Archie's Automatic Car Wash.

On February 26,

1958,

a 1952 black Ford Sedan, bearing Pennsyl-

vania Registration 808467, was observed driving into-the Automatic

Car Wash and appeared to make a delivery. This tag 1s registered

to CARMEN MORANTE, 7963 Aber Road; Verona, Pa.

NELSON'S ASSOCIATION WITH THE PITTSBURGH POLICE DEPARTMENT

On March 6, 1958, during a conference between Superintendent

JAMES A. SLUSSER

and Lieutenant JÖHN JAMES; Pittsburgh Police

Department, and SAC E. H. WINTERROWD' and SA JOHN S. PORTELIA,

it was brought out by

• Superintendent SLUSSER and Lieutenant

JAMES

that ARTHUR NELSON has been acting as an informant for them.

During thịs

FBI desired

JAMES.

On March 1l, 1958, Lieutenant JOHN JAMES was interviewed by

SAS MADVAY and PORTELLA, at which time Lieutenant JAMES advised

that he and ARTHUR NELSON were

very good friends; that NELSON

took a liking to him; and that because of this, NELSON had been

very cooperative with JAMES, knowing that he was a member of

the Pittsburgh Police Department,

and furnished information to him.

JAMES

said that his association with NELSON was further

supplemented by the fact that he has

a daughter attending

Duquesne University,- Pittsburgh, who is very friendly with

ARTHUR NELSON's son, a pre-medical

student

at the University of

Pittsburgh.

- 10 -

NW 45854 DocId: 32298168 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG. 92-234

Lieutenant JAMES said that NELSON wants to get out of the

rackets and to become as legitimate as possible because he

has a son whom he wishes to help become a doctor.

JAMES

[said that NELSON is getting out of the numbers in East

Liberty. and wants to get into the motel business.

He said

that NELSON has the blueprints for a motel to be erected on

a lot he owns on Route 22, near the "Miracle Mile Shopping

Route de, near the ,

Center.: JAMES. said that NELSON has told him that he is

looking for someone who willloan him $87,000 which he needs

desperately to start on the motel enterprise. JAMES explained

that NELSON has told him that he owns 50 per cent of Archie's

Automatic. Car wash, and that the other 50 per cent is owned

by MICHAEL GENOVESE.

JAMES. stated. that NELSON is a numbers writer in the East

Liberty section, and has quite a large operation. JAMES did

not explain further the activities of NELSON, in

this regard,

but he advised that to his knowledge, NELSON was not involved

in any other racket other than the numbers.

JAMES: offered to ask NELSON any question and then make available

given to JAMES regarding NELSON's finances and his connections

with MICHAEL GENOVESE and other racketeers in the East Liberty

Section. JAMES said that he would contact NELSON at an early.

date, and thereafter make available NELSON's statements in this

regard.

C.

CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES

As previously reported, Lieutenant JAMES and Detective PAUL

STASIAK, both advised that ARTHUR NELSON is engaged in the

numbers writing activity in the East Liberty Section of

Pittsburgh. Also as previously mentioned, according to

Lieutenant JAMES, who has been contacting NELSON as an informant,

NELSON is not engaged in any other racket activities, other than

numbers writing.

- 11 -

NW 45854 DocId: 32298168 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-234

INFORMANTS

T-1 is Mrs. GOLDIE BROUGH, Supervisor, Selective Service

Headquarters, 100 North Tameron Street, Harrisburg, Pa.

(concealed to protect Selective Service records).

T-2 is BARBARA BOAL, Beli Telephone Company, Altoona, pa.,

contacted by SA JOHN S. HUGHES (requested) •

T-3 IS WILLIAM WALSH, Assistant Superintendent, Western Union,

Smithfield Street, Pittsburgh,.

contacted by SA THOMAS DOODY

on February 24, 1958, (requested). i

I-4 is Bureau of Public Debt, Division of Loans and Currency,

536 South Clark

DIvision, March 6, 1958 Chicago, Illinois, letter to Pittsburgh

T-5 1s PG-573-C, contacted by SA JOHN S. PORTELIA on February 4,

1958.

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

Informants, who are in a position to furnish information about

the activities of NELSON are:

PG-573-C

PG-524-C

PCI

At the present time, no additional persons are under consideration

for contact of potential criminal informants in relation to this

case in view of the fact that subject himself is an informant for

i potentat that sui

the Pittsburgh Police Department. No plans are being formulated

at this

time to develop subject as an informant of the Pittsburgh

Office because to do so would only lead to embarrassment and

possible breach in relations between the Pottsburgh Police

Department and the Pittsburgh Office.

OTHER 4!

..-. 16. -

HW

45854 DocId: 32298168

Page 6

---

## Page 7

PG 92-234

PAOLUCI; MARIANA-

PAPALE; CHARLES- -

Pittsburgh Milk Company-

PLESCIA, S. A.

Red Eagle Club

RUSSO, MARY--

RUSSO, SAM--

SILVESTRI, SILVESTRI--

STASIAK, PAUL-

SUNSERI,

S. C.

Union Real Estate Company of Pittsburgh-

Union Title Guaranty Company-

WHITE, JOSEPH-

WILLIAMS, E. C.

-

18

-

HW 45854 DocId: 32298168 Page 7

PAGE

2

OTHER 4

1

6

9, 10

4

6,

11, 12

- 13

13

9

---

