# docid-32325863

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90038-10052

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-4930-46

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/23/1968

5

JAMES HENRY DOLAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32325863

Page 1

29

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act or 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 92-292

DALLAS

AT ARLINGTON, TEXAS. Locate and interview LEON "BUDDY"

HAAS, 3716 Shady Valley Drive.

AT DALLAS, TEXAS.

1. Will notify Dallas PD and Dallas

Fire Department of subject's location when it is determined.

2.

Will interview Mrs. DOLAN, 4007 Druid Hills Drive,

Apt. 104, telephone number FE 9-6271.

Maintain contact with DL 275-C-TE and DL 146-C

as to subject's activities and associates.

ADMINISTRATIVE :

The investigative period of this report predates

referenced report inasmuch as investigation had not been received

from auxiliary office when last

report was written.

DL T-I is DL 275-C-TE, contacted by SA HAROLD J. EDGERTON.

DL T-2 is DL 146-C contacted by SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT.

The following information was further reported by

DL 146-C on 6/26/68, and is being recorded on the cover pages to

further protect the

informant.

CI advised that subject had attempted to buy a car from

his agency through his salesman AL MEADOWS and went to MEADOWS!

desk and located the papers dealing with the matter. CI advised

the deal fell through because DOLAN's credit as well as his co-

signer were not good enough. DOLAN furnished the following back-

ground as revealed by the papers made available by informant:

Age 53, residence 5509 Caladium, phone EM 8-3471,

previous residence 4007 Druid Hill, employment Sales Representative,

LaSalle Extension University, Chicago,

Illinois, previous employment

Forest Lane Produce (truck driver), wife MARIAN, daughter CATHERINE

DOLAN, 1275 Fairfield, Reno, Nevada.

The co-signer was listed as E. O. LOCKLER, business

address Forest Lane Produce, 901 Forest Lane, Dallas, phone

AD 1-4070.

- B*

Cover Page

DocId: 32325863 Page 2

---

