# docid-32309262

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10298-10049

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2824-118, 119, 120

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEE, IVAN D.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/28/1966

15

JFC, REL, RES, ASSOC, FISUR, TOLL CALLS, CRIMINAL ACT,

EMP, INTV, NUMEROUS INDIVIDUALS, INSTR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 A/T

v9.1

NW 45754 DocId: 32309262

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

F BI

Date:

5/2/66

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

(92-2824)

SAC,. NEW YORK

(92-840) P

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO aka

AR

(00: DALLAS)

Re Dallas airtel to Bureau, 4/4/66, and Dallas

letter to New York, 3/23/66, captioned as above.

Informants having some knowledge of the structure

of ICN and identity of ICN members were contacted concerning

CIVELLO with negative results.

The informants contacted

were NY 4018-C-TE; NY 4729-C-TE, NY 3461-C-TE; NY 5042-C-TE;

NY 3936-C-TE and NY 4498-C-TE.

NY 4857-C-TE has not been interviewed concerning

the lead set out in referenced airtel since the NYO is

presently encountering difficulty in contacting this source.

This informant is reliable and has extensive

knowledge of the structure and identity of individuals

in LCN. Lead will be covered when feasible.

248

5. рідні

3

3

Bureau

(92-2824)

- Dallas

92-361

- New York

92-840)

(1-137-10966)

2b00/v:

WAV : vmc

(9)

NA 3 1 36 50.80

LOI

Sent .

REG- 52

92-2824-120

B

_M

Per .

Charge

NW 45754 DocId: 32309262 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

a.:

FBI

""re

Date:

4/4/66

Transmit the following in -

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL

Vịa

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2824)

FROM:

MAC, DALIAS (92-86) (8)

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO aka

AR

00: DALLAS

Re New York airtel to Bureau dated 3/28/66 captioned

"NY-4857-C-TE, TECIP."

A review of referenced airtel indicates the

contact with the New York informant stated that "JOE from

Dallas" was "boss" in Texas. Also indicated JOE was from

Dallas. Informant also furnished additional information

concerning Italians in other cities.

LEADS

NEW YORK is requested to recontact NY-4857-C-TE concerning

the information the boss in Texas was

JOE from Dallas to

ascertain if he knows the full name of JOE, if he is personally

acquainted with the individual allegedly boss from Texas, or

was this hearsay information, and if so from whom he obtained

the information.

Ascertain his definition of boss, if it is related

to the LCN, and if so, to whom does JOE report.

Also ascertain

if he has any information to indicate that JOE has a family

under his direction in Dallas, Texas, or in the State of Texas.

Ascertain what family JOE belongs to and to whom he will

y. Joa la

report to concerning activities in Texas.

Also ascertain from

informant when he first obtained information that JOE was

when he first obt

boss

in Texas, and if he has any personal knowledge that JOE is

presently active for the LCN.

92-2824.

-Bureau

3- New York (2- 137-10966)

2- Dallas

IDL/wvm

(8)

REC- 81

HIS APR 5 1966

Approved:

1110,56

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

_M

Per

NW 45754 DocId: 32309262

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-263 (Rev. S-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO, aka

DATE

3/28/66

REPORT MADE BY

IVAN D. LEE

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

1/21 - 3/17/66

AR

TYPED BY

CC

REFERENCES:

Report of SA IVAN D. LEE, 1/24/66, Dallas.

Bureau airtel to Albany 1/31/66, captioned CRIMINAL

INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM.

Little Rock letter to Dallas, 2/15/66.

- P-

ENCLOSURES:

TO BUREAU

Enclosed herewith are 2 copies of letterhead memorandum

setting forth

the characterization of informants mentioned in the

details of this report.

pending over one year yes

Pending prosecution over six months no

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

VIES CHANGENT

3

Bureau (92-2824) (Eng--2)

- USA,

Fort Worth

-

Little Rock (92-190)

Chicago (92-351)

-

New York

2

Dallas (92-36)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

7212824-118

APR 1

1966

REC- 117

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY..

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD.

BY.

2102

CC.

AAG, Criminal Division,

Organized Crime and Racketeering

Section, Room 2524

36

NW 45754 DocId: 32309262 Page 4

NOTATIONS

stelester

---

## Page 5

DL 92-36

LEADS :

...

LITTLE ROCK

AT MOUNTAIN HOME, ARKANSAS.

Will contact the owner of

the Town and Country Motel,

145 South Main Street, and ascertain

their records if JOSEPH CIVELLO was possibly a guest at their

motel on the night of 9/7/65.

In the event CIVELLO a registered

guest, will obtain all information in their files concerning his

stay at the motel.

CHICAGO

AT ROCKFORD,

ILLINOIS. Will ascertain subscribers to

telephone numbers 877-8143; 399-0579 and 965-3494, conduct credit

and criminal and furnish results to Dallas Division.

NEW YORK

NEW YORK.

Will ascertain subscriber to

telephone

RO 9-0195. Conduct: credit

and criminal

and furnish results to Dallas Division.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The information as obtained from Southwestern Bell Telephone

Company concerning the telephone number at the residence of the subject,

was obtained by SA IVAN D. LEE from JAMES VAUGHAN, JR., Area Security

Supervisor.

Referenced Bureau airtel set forth instructions to furnish

certain information to the Bureau concerning CIVELLO's background for

placing this information on an ADP card. Instructions also indicated

that

this information should also be set forth in the next report

submitted on captioned subject.

INFORMANTS:

DL T-1 is DL 275-C-TE.

DI T-2 is PCI

DI T-3 is DL 271-C.

DL T-4 is DL 105-C.

OTHER 4

_ B -

Cover Page

NW 45754 DocId: 32309262 Page 5

---

