# docid-32263603

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/21/20

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10110-10198

RECORD SERIES:

SECURITY CLASSIFIED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-3083

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

DATE: 09/18/1964

PAGES:

62

SUBJECTS:

KENNEDY, JOHN, ASSASSINATION

ALLEGED ASSASSINS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/16/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Box 2.

v9.1

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Classied Material Rimened Frein

HSCA 2-3-1975

Velume II

=. 1

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603

Page 2

---

## Page 3

7s s 89м

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

ELDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

2?.:

SECRET

Сору вог

Report al

Dote

Flaid Office fite Nos

Tiles

ROBERT P. GINBERLING

Boptember 18, 1964

89-43

ASSASSINATICN OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD INNEDY,

MOVRABBE 22, 1083, DALLAS, TIXAS

MSCKLLANBOUB - INFORNATIO CANCIRIING

Ox Dallas, TOXAS

Demon File Mas

82-109060

Sayaopale

•DurInE COurSe Of CaptIOned LAVeRtIgtIOn DUNeTOUS

allegations hava boen receivod concerning persons other thas the

AllOgOd ABBASSID, LEE HARVBY OSHALD, and lOgICal InvestigatIOR

has been conducted in ench instance in an offort to resolve such

allegations.

-

CLASSIF ED BY 5668S0/GCL

ROPRIATE AGENCIES

10 PlEAS

APPICES

rication

Sempe from CDS

pate ol Doclarailication In

SECRFI,

3 88 00

Tal

HH 50529 • DocId: 32263603

Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 89-43

TABLE OF CONTENTE

Allegation by Jaknow Individual Made

Telephonically to Radio Btation VFBB,

Baltinore, Maryland, that Assassinatlos

Involved Conspiracy by Iwenty pornons

InClUding BARL JACKSON OL BAltIMOrO,

Not Further Identlfled, and Benator

DIRKSEN (POSSIblY ROIAIIIDE tO BeRatOr

EVERBIT M. DIRISEN Of I1118018)

AnoDyNoUR Letter Postnarkod at BreNertOn,

Vashingtos, August 23, 1964, Recolved by

Commander B. V. SMILSY, Puget Sound Naval

Bblpyard, Brenertos, Washlngton

Anosynous lotter Recoired by New York OffiCe

01 FBI Iron Hudderalleld, England, on

July 24, 1964

BUSIR, FRIEDRICH RUDOLS

CABORE, FLORBNCE I. C. ;

DRAGONIR, ANGHEL

BARYS?, THOMAS

Led GRANGE, FRAMI C.

PRICE, EMERSON VARNER, SA.

INDEX

PAGE

8 = 8

9 - 12

18 - 86

87 - 80

31 - 33

34 - 89

40 = 43

44 - 52

83

- 37

3.

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DI. 89-48

INCLOBURES

TO PreSIdent's CONRIBSIOn

InclORad sor the PresIdent'a CONFISSIOn are tuo COpIes

of the folloning described exhiblt, together with InfornatiOn

to where the resulta of Investigation conceraing such exhibit

are reflocted:

There Bosults of

Ixhibit Number

Description

Investigation Reported

D-232 (0606)

Anonynous letter

Instant saport, pages

received by lew

8-12

JOSE OLIICO OL IBI

Ion Hudderaisold,

ngLand, on July 34,

1964

$38583

HH 50529 DooId: 32263603

Page 5

---

## Page 6

11 00-13

•DITAILS:

This soport contains the resulta of Investigation

concerning allegations nade agalast sumerous other persons

other than the alleged assassia of PrOsident JOHN TITZGERALD

TENEDY, LEE BARVEY OBVALD.

the allegations soflected herals

75555

HH 50529 DocId: 32263603 : Page 6

---

## Page 7

a.'

DI. 89-63

dilet 1

RIS ALLBGATION BY UNIONA MIDIVIDUAL MADE

TELSPHONICALLY TO RADIO STATION MEBR,

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND, THAT ASSASSINATION

INVOLVED CONSPIRACY BY THENTY PERSONS

INCLUDING BARI JACKSON OF BALTIMORE, HOT

FURTHBR IDENTIFIED, AND SENATOR DIRKSEN

(POSSIBLY REPERRING TO SENATOR EVERENT M.

DIRKSEN OF ILLINOISL

3

HH 50529 DocId: 32263603

Page 7

---

## Page 8

BA 89-30

SSR:dur

at 4:30 pol. on September 1, 1964, MI. HARRX, SHRIVER,

Hens Department, Radio Station WEBR,

Balt more, Maryland,

telephonically advised Assitant Special Agent in Charge

GEORGE W. HALL of the Baltimore Office of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation that his radio station had received

and would not give

his location or other indication of his identity.

anonymous caller named HARRY also refusea to call any

lan enforcement agency.

Mr. SHRIVER stated that "HARRY"'elleged that the

aBBaBBInatIOn or President kENNal avolved a conspiracy mo.

by 20 persans, Including one bail

not rurther identified, ana a current united states senator.

HARRY had alleged that JACKSON fired the shot which killed

President KENNEDY at the same time that shots mere fired by

LEE HARVEY OSWALD.

In his most recent call to the radio

station HARRY had Identified the United States Senator

as Senator DIRKSEN. He did not provide any further Identification

or detailß.

"HARRY"nad stated to the radio station that he had

tried this entire group himself, found them guilty, and

will execute them. He first stated he would execute then

within 232 hours, and in his most recent call 8a1o

he would execute them by 1:30 that night, which woure

nave been 1:30 a.l., September 2, 1964.

Mr. SERIVER advised "HARRY" aid not sound intoxicated

although he kas obviously a mental case.

Mir. SHRIVER

stated he would advise the Baltimore Office of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation In the event any additional calls

are received from HARRY during which he further Identifies

himself or furnishes any additional allegations.

On the basis of information currently avallable,

no prior Information recelved by the Baltimore Office of

HW 50529 • DocId:32263603 Page 8

---

## Page 9

DI 89-43

R38

HH 50529 DocId: 32263603. Page 9.

б

ANONYMOUS LETTER POSTHARKED AT

BREMERTON, MASHINGTON, AUGUST 23,

1964, RECBIVED BY COMMANDER R. W.

BMILEY, PUGET SOUXD MAVAL SHIPYARD,

BREMERTON, MASHINGTON

5

---

## Page 10

1

SE 89-47

DL 89-43

DCR: bhe

AT SEATTLE, WASHINGTON

The following

was received by SA GEORGE L.

LEWIS from Commander R.

SMILEY, Puget Sound Naval Shipyard,

August 23, 1964, to Plates de souston, Washington,

"Dear Commander Smiley:

"Please destroy this letter just as soon as you

have read it because it is probably extremely dangerous

even to be writing it. As I told you when I was upset

about my son's letter from Panama--you're the most

influential person I know & that is why I am entrusting

this confidence to you.

"We do not always know exactly how close

another world is to us.

I only know that sometimes

I get 'designs' & perhaps messages from 'somewhere.'

Something is impelling me to write you tonight that

more investigation should be made of Pres. Kennedy'&

death.

You see people from Wash D.C. often--there

must be some way you can get word to the Pres' brother

Bobby Kennedy that he should do some careful but

strenuous investigation.

• One of the wealenesses of

people who are raised in the Kennedy 's circumstance:

is that they have known too little of 'struggle'

E feel that all persons are honest & straight forward

& kindly like themselves not having enough knowledge

of the motivation that will lead less fortunate.

people to lie & steal l kill for power & prestige.

This too trusless attitude was death for Pres. Kennedy.

I for one do not want to cast a vote in the next election

for the forces that brought about his murder.

I don't

believe for a minute that Oswald did this thing on his

own-or even that he was a comunist tool--there are..

too many persons in our own country who could have had

strong reasons for killing the President for certain :

stands he was taking.

"There must be some way for a good detective to

find out who is sending money to Oswald's widow.:

"Jack Ruby should be taken out of Texas to

Washington as he has asked. If Mre. Kennedy would talk

6

59 46523

to =

HH 50529 DocId: 32263603

Page 10

---

## Page 11

X531

SE 89-87

DL 89-43

DCR: bhe

with him it would uncover something to prove

uho has plotted the President's murder.

*Jack Ruby did

not plan Oswald's nurder.

Sonething 'inspired' him & guided him that night.

I may have been the Presidents own spirit seeking

to protect his wife & his country. If Jack Ruby

can talk with Mrs. Kennedy truth will out.

"Here are just a few thoughts on persons vino

might have cause & power to plot the President's

death:

"Scoop' Jackson waited hours in his rooms

to be notified of his nomination as V.P. with

Pres. Kennedy. It never came.

He was narried

to a proud girl of a politically active family

fron down there--there could be a link here......

"Mrs. 'Lady Bird' Johnsen has a record of

being very desirous of power & prestige.

She could

not have enjoyed being second to a younger more

beautiful woman like Jacqueline Kennedy. Texas is her

own territory where she could pull strings as no one

else would be able to.

"I an not politically minded at all--thats

why its so silly for me to be writing this letter at

all. -But you must be aware of other personalities

In the political scene who would ilt the pattern of

conspiracy.

Remember your history--time points that

it was likely See. of State Stanton who plapned

Pres. Lincoln's murder. Really detection should

be sonewhat improved by nows-if an investigation

can just be made now before the trial le complely

cold-ustice will be done..

i:"If I wrote to the pres' brother or Mrs. Kennedy

my letter would never even reach them. But you must

e very astute ¿ practical to de the commander you ar

Ise some of your know-how & get this message that na

come to se to the dead President's fanily.

"Just burn this letter &

don't try to talk to

me about this..

I have no. facts--just a strong strong

feeling fron somewhere."

50529: DocId: 32263603

Page 11

dirt

---

## Page 12

B1 89-43

By communication datod september 9, 1964, €h0

saattlo Office advised that the forogolag lotter vas unsigned

and the sdentity of the walter annous.

HH 50529 - DocId: 32263603 Page 12

---

## Page 13

88 8

HEW YORK OTICH OR FBI FRON

HUDDERBFLID, ENGLAND, ON

JULY 36e 1964

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603

Page 13

---

## Page 14

Dallas 89-43

On July 20, 196%,

a letter postmarked "Hudderaiiold,

Yorkshire, England" was nailed to'!. do

York. F B.

J. do & City" and vas receivod in New York July:

24, 1964.

This letter 18 quoted belon:

* 19 July. B4:

Hudder s1101d.

England

-"MT. J. Edgar Hover.

"8ÍI as & CItBen Of U.B.A. I mould llke to see

Justice have 1ts course for the sake of crise.

"How I an going to give you the name of the

Person who shot Presedent Kenedy.

Not Because I

an a Person who Belove in Justice But for the

wurder of a nan in cold. Blud.

"Think of His wife and children they are as

good as any desetent citisen of America.

"І an.:

8t1ll working on the fact of what Happened: How

I w1ll give you a small clue. It was don by one.

well known man He i8 Known as the Engenair of the

shooting and Texas Police know who lt 18 But they

are alfraid to Do any thing about 1t:

and the Place whore

"I was In texas four Weeks Before the shooting

and the place where the arangement was Been aragg®.

"I an also sending

оду coppy. to L.B. Johnson:

and a coppy to Mr. M.

Murphy.. of 22z

Yours Faithlull.

Justico.

"P.B. THIS. IS. NOI. A. JOXE"

10

HH

atId 32263603

---

## Page 15

==?

Da22a0 80-13

This matter ms rafarted to the laB.d. LaboratOry,

Jashlagion, D.C. by the len Tork OfICO oL the Y.B.I. ADd thi

Laboratory exanination seflected that the handuriting tas sot

Identllled 11 the 1.B.I. Anonyuous Lotter f1le, nor as it u

possible fron the material avallablo to suggest the particular

nat1004111y 01 th0551405.

Bonever, cortain slallarition 101

GerRas, spanish and Bagllah wiltings Mere observed.: The nord

"Blud" 1n paragraph & 18 ClOse tO the Gorzen spolling "Blut"»

(bload) and 18 pronounced "Blud" In Southers parts of CerneDy.

The lotter My"' appeASa 1a Bpaniab, GerMAn and English wrItIago

and the lotter ng" in the

MOTA "TOXAS" JeBONDled RUSSIAN OI

1

1

MAGENCY

---

## Page 16

PAGE 12 DELETEA.

LEASON: FOREIGN THRA AGENCY

306A

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603

Page

16

---

## Page 17

8943

USKE

13

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603

Page 17

---

## Page 18

SONN

8288

DALLAS

3 89-49

SECRETY

The folloning lo a translation Iron German of a letter

which vas postsarked at Stade, M. Bannover, Germany, On RD

11logfble date In Apr1l, 1964.

The roturn address on the envelop.

read "Priodrich Budol! Busko, 8179 Ibllemorth, Gofluegelbor

Birkenhela (Vost Garaaay)."

"Stado, Apr1I 8, 2081

•go the justico Departeent

of the Unitod States of Auerie

Tashlagton, (D.C.)

"Contlemen:

"I take the Ilberty of urging you to place yourselves

In contact with the office for the protection of the

Constitution of the German Yoderal Government, Office of

the Foreign Ministry In jansover.

Interesting also to you. They night have a direct bearing

on the causes of the assagsination of your president Lennody.

"The indications I furslahed are of freat significance

Inasmuch as l belleve to have dependable Information to the

affect that these "guided actions' 1111 becone particularl

Important in the near future and ill undoubtodly occur.

.. ...

arlodrich Rudoll Buske"

FORELEN AGINCY

Poses

4)

SECRET

14

NN 50529

DoC1d:32263603 Page 18

---

## Page 19

PAGES 15 TO 266 INCeNSIVE

DELETED.

REASON: FOREIGN THIRD AGENCY

.....

14 50529

DocId: 32263603

Page

19

---

## Page 20

DL 89-15

I: FLORENCE I. C. CABORI

+=

27

1N 50529

DocId: 32263603 Page 20

---

## Page 21

9D-302

REPAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAZTON

Deto

_11/23/63

Re:

FLORENCE I. C. CABORE

Westcort Company

4 East 52nd Street

New York City, New York

nat telephoni.

cally advised the Boston office of the

On November 23, 1963, RICHA mederal Bureau of

nvestigation that he reside. at le south wunn avenue. Fas

Orange Nan Jansex, and is an employee or the sloux ratiroad

Company, New York City.

WhiteD stated he nas calling sron

Portland, Maine, telephone number 70623,

He said that while on a train from New York Clty on

November 22, 1953, he met a thirty year old female,

1dentifled herself as PLORENCE T. OF CABORE, of Westcort

Company, 4 East 52nd Street, New York City, New York, home.

address 59 West l0th Street, New York CIty, Telephone Number

GR 7-1955.

She had been arinting and spoke disparagingly

of the President.

She told WHITTED that she had been told

that the President would not get out of texas alive.

she

Bald the Constitution has been violated since 1933, and that

1t was too bad the President was not killea a year ago.

11/23/63 t_

Boston, Massachusetts

BS 89-43

SA DENNIS M. CONDON: at1

28

by.

..Dato dictatod 11/23/63

This document contains noither recommendations nor conclusions of the

PBI and 18 loaned to your agency; 1t and 1ts contents are not to be

distributed outsido your agency.

HH 50529 DocId: 32263603 Page 21

---

## Page 22

1x 82 -3060

Is 89-43

138

FLORIACE I. C. CABORS,

MABICORT COMPATE,

A JABI S2U0 STRIFE.

IN YORK CITYL HEN 89R

On November 23, 1963, CHAXIES O, SUPPI, superlatardent.

70 Boath MURS ATARLO, BABE OLARGO, MON JOLRAY, tOld SA CIXENED

8. HUND that RICHARD WITTED rasides at that address but la.

out-of-tone fos approximataly tha works. He added that Mr. WHITtID

ronIdes la Apartment 407 and 18 not mIried. SIfOItE by NI. BUPPs.

and special Agest Hulls to contact anyone la Apartment 407 da

November 23, 1963, nose unsuccanaful.

RICHARD WRITTED, Apartment 407, 70 South MaRa AvaRDo,

Fast OrANge, MOM JAIRAY, adVIaRd SA RAYMOND Y. HOYLE on

November 26, 1963, that he could furaiah no additional inforastion

COnCornIng HIAS CABORI. Jd added that she had been dilnking at

the time the sade the ranarks attrlbuted to har. and that har

rosarks vera those af a person uith a diffarent political outloak

than that of the late President sonaDi.

29

NH 50529 DocId: 32263603 Page 22

---

## Page 23

52-803010,8-18-801

CRSJEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIC

August 28, 1964

Dero

"*

Miss Florence I. C. Cabore advised that she net one

Richard Whitted on November 22, 1963, during a train trip to:

BostOn.

She stated that during conversation, whitted told her

that he was one of Teddy Kennedy'& campaign nanagers when he =

san for Senator in the State of Massachusetts.

Mier. Cabore fonied that she even made the statement

that she was told that president Kennedy would not get out of

Texas alive or that it was too bad he uss not killed a year ago.

She stated that she told Writted that she had read an article

about the wey Adlai Stevenson had been treated during his viit

to Dallas, Texas, and connerted that they might try to do the

same to President kernedy or even try

to kill him.

Miss Cabore advised that she is very active in the

John Birch Society in New ¿ork City.

A:

NE:-

On 8/27/64

by SAS EUGENE He O'NEILL & LELAND FO

LOWERY ugh

30

DL

89-43

NY

89-75

8/28/64

_Dato dictatod

o Stone local do the poperty of the FBi sad la locol lo

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603 Page 23

---

## Page 24

- )

=89-3

CHEL DRAGONIR

177"

3

1

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603 Page

24

---

## Page 25

aspaciTally, I saluto poe

"El ANCIREL DRACONTI

805806 бава 29, 1961

approprtato hasdllas.

The POlloMlaG FeRaltA 01 as Interrion With ANCitta

DRAGONIZ, PAINAtrARRe B0, SALEbUTE, AUNTILA, DOSO PATALADAR

Siro d:8. Coreranas agoncy vitù laventleativo sur ladierson

otarod the 200001 a laterriorod on luguet 10, 1061, an

mo ha han contado perpete y o a el

Mato la 1048 and further portoda bosimalns la 1050 1?

POLICO ATO NON SOYLAS tO NATO DIA COMAlITOs agalA.

32

NN 50529

DоC1d:32263603

Page

25

---

## Page 26

33

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603

Page

26

---

## Page 27

DI 89-43

:

34

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603 Page 27

---

## Page 28

Q:

Ds. 89-63

is a rid

On June 22, 1964, the following letter vas received

by a confidential source abroads

Ravlos. 04. 062351.

Н.И.Б/А ASTUE.

oRaR.o.

Londer.

ingland

76/64

"DORI 81I88

"Wallat In Paris last September, I thiak

I may have acquired sons information which could

help you in capturing the RRAL killer of President

sonnedy.

"I will not attempt to put in this lotter.

exactly that 1a the source of ny InfOrmatiOn, £or

fear you vilte ne off as 'Just another erast'. I

told my parants about it, & they told so to love

wall alone, because it was too big to get Involved

1n.

"Hovevers I must tell someone, & you soon 11ke

the right poople.

"If you are Intarested, I will gladly tell you

the l1ttle I knon. In the hope it say heip..

"YOUIS SINCOLOLY•

"J.D. RaNIOR"

35

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603 Page

28

---

## Page 29

DI. 89-43

880/1t$

On June 23, 1964, a letter was Alrected to saris!

by the confidential soarce abroad asking for farther

InforatIon LIon BIn.

On July o, 1964, the folloning Inforpation var

IOCALTON DY thA CONfIdeNTIAl SONICA ADIODI ETON PANESE

"CX (8) Ravlos. 81062334.

X. M. B/M. ASTUTE

g.8.0.

London

26/6/64

"DOAr BLIS

"In rafarance to your letter of 23rd June 6l.

"I vill try to explain as voll as possiblo 1n

writing, all that I suspoct. I ulll give you the facts

as claarly as possible, although sons of the dotalla

are rather confused son.

"I went to PaILa in Septomber 63 (I Must adult

that I vas A.V.O. I. at the tio), after a fon days

I an out of sOneY & As 100kIng arOund for a job of

sona description. My hotel vas in 8t. Michel at the

'Botal de la care la Rue de la Hoope.

I wont baci

there one day after an unsuccessful daya' Jobhuntlag.

There vas as American gentionas in the lobby with 25

places of luggago, Maich had been dollvered to the

urong hotel, & he vas 100king aronna for a portar. " I

volantaared for the 10b, for Mich I vas duly paid.

"During this, ne got talking, & I summad lisa up

Immodiatoly as sone sort of an eccentile millionaire,.

8 I must dunit, I trled, successfully, to latch on to

Alt, Over the next monk, no bocane suite tira filends

36

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603 Page 29

---

## Page 30

& ate out at blo expenso, & played chess a lot.

10

Mas a very interosting talker & told Do a lot about

B1ns01s.

Ono night, ne nare sittias la an expensivo

sostaurant (I forgot the sana) & ha bagas telllag se

no life story.

de explained that ha vas an engineer

Dy trade, & a wilter by lastinct. Do shoved no some

of his vork, a groat deal of 1t balag lotters valch

had boen pabllahed In the Anarican papara, crlticialag

the governent. Do then got very worked up & suld that

he bad been throm Into pIleos, & beaten up, & had bod

to flee the country. I vill son quote as soar as

possible his exact vords...

•'I Mill hava avaryone uo ever layod a flnger

on sa, done away with. Withla three weeke. I will

have Pronident Kennady (& other names which escape sy

salad; I think COnDOlly vas sponget them) 81lled!! I

havo the ponor to do 1t, & lt. shall be done'.

"By this thas ba was so vorked up. that the head

walter had to sat bin to be galot. Ho saw se laughing

at that he sald, & sald "You say laugh, but you'll see

Whether of not I sean what I say within d son vocks!

"That's ny story. I forgot the natter entiraly.

when I hoard that the terrible thing had happened, sight

out of the blue, I vas at a loss to maat to do.

•I told

My parants, & they advised no to loave moll alone.?.

"The san's sane vas thoray, HARVSY. I bellove he

COnos fION BORnsYlYAniA. I have nore particUlars at

hono 1a Brighton, Inclading a foldes of his vork..."

"You roallso that what I have told you 1s based on

the fact that I anyune he told ne the truth. He Minis

certainly had the pomer & sonay to do a thing 11ke that.

& was accentile endugu.

37

NH 50529 DocId: 32263603 Page 30

---

## Page 31

pa: 9573

180/13£

"I hope I's not vasting your tina, a naklag a

Sool of mysels.

OYONIA BIACRIBLY.

"S.Л. RawLas"

On JUlY 13, 1964, RAMIES, NO 18 & BORRAS, IAFOIN

the confidential source abroad that he mas snipplng out

Immodiataly for at loast air meta and voula De unablo to

furnish saditional infornation until sia return. It 1a

expected that samurs vill contact the confidential source abroad

"on ble satura ErOs sos.

38

H# 50529

DocId: 32263603

Page 31

---

## Page 32

DI 89-A3

1184219

on July 31, 1964, the Pittsburgh 01f10e of the -

federal pureau of Investigation adrised the Ladicos of that

OffICe dId not contain aDy InfoIatIon Identiflable with the

DAN THORS HARVI.

os dugant 8, 1964, the Palladolphia Offico of the

roderal surnau of Investigation advised the lndicas of that

offlon did not contain any Infornation Identiflable with the

DATO THONAS LARVEY.

39

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603

Page 32

---

## Page 33

89-43

89-75

8

KEANK CE XA SPAYCI

-*ăă»

40

HH 50529

DocId:32263603 Page

33

---

## Page 34

80-903 0r00.8-96-001

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Doto.

Deceaber 9, 1963

1.

ERNEST EXGARRICK, 3460 Old ToNn Bard Soldreport Con

employed as a cost accountant -" the l. b.

company of New Raven, Conrecticut, furr:ded the followlAg

Information:

GARRICK advised that an a stockholder in the Rutland Ralluay

Vermont, he attended a stockholders

He advised that anong others present at that neoting

vere the followine deseribed inalviduale:

DECESSEC

PRANK C. LA GiRANGE, Who he advised 18 the Onner Of La GrangI

* Company, 61 Broadway, New York C1ty, and whon he further

dee robed directore beer forceneral salironder os

the Boardier

DANIEL

длавувь

TORUNO

BRUNO, whon he described as a rallrOgt securition

Wall Strret Joirnal; 1. JAMES GUMPERT WhOa

he described as a rolirod former Vice President of Bon-Am1

Corporation, presertly Vice President of the B. T. Babbit

Cospany and

also a member of the Board of Directors of the

Rutland Rallusy Corporation.

GARRICK advised that followlig this neeting of the Board of

Directors of the postland Railway Corporation held in April

of 1961 he had lurch on the same date with the above three

mentioned individuals at a grall restaurant, name unrecalled,

located acrosy fron the freight yard on a side street opposite

a large parking lot which had forserly been the location of

the rallroad station in Rutland.

GARRICK stated that during

conversation at this luncheon LA GRANCE while in the midst of

e tirade againg! labor unions and the Governaent, made a '

statenent "mark y words President Kennedy will not finiab i

his first tern".

CARRICK stated that he asked LA GRANGE

to amplily his statement. He stated that LA GRANGE then

Bald that Mr. KEVIEDY das not lavorable towards business and

that Mr. JOHNSON Mas lavorable towards business and that there

was a group with a lot of noney who manted to put MI. COiNSON In

the President'a position but he stated that he could not go into

the identitles of the individuals in the group. GARRICK further

stated that ke then asked LA GRANGE what he seant by stating:

On.

11/30/63

41

Bridgeport, Connecticut

Filo 8.

NH 100-18158

by -

SA LEONARD F. JOHNSON/bmg

_Dato dietared.

12/4/63

Thla docuonal contalas Dallber raconooodallono no conclaulons of tha PBI. Il la lha proparty ol la F8I AnA la Locsal lo

YON EGADGYI Il BOA lA CORleDIA aTA sOl lo ba Alutibaled onlaldo your agesoy.

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603 Page 34

---

## Page 35

N8 100-18158

- 2 -

that President KENNEDY would not finish his first term.

PrAt

this point GARRICK WaS quite vague and reports LA GRANGE aB

having stated either that Mr. KENNEDY would be "bumped off"

or would be killed or would neet a violent end or had used

sone words to that affect.

GARRICK was unable to furnish any lurther information con-

cerning this incident other than to state that the remarks

which he attributed to lA GRANGE had been made also in the

presence of BRUNO and GUMPERT.

42

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603 Page 35

---

## Page 36

irreden!

DI. 89-43

Xy 89-75

Inqulry at the LaGrange Company, 61 Breaduay, New

43

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603 Page

36

---

## Page 37

,DI 89-43

EMERSON VARMER PRICE, JR.

44

rei triesi

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603

Page

37

---

## Page 38

strides

1201

DE 89-43

RPG/JEf

The following Investigation supplements that

contained on pages 96 through 103 of the report of

spacial Agent Robert 8. Gemberling dated August 28, 1964.

at Dallas, Texas, concerning SHERSON VARHER PRICE, JR.

45

30329

DocId: 32263603

Page

36

---

## Page 39

8D-802 (88т.1028-601

JERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIO..

Data -

9/11/64

X7• JAMES A: NASH, Btar Route, Provencal,

Louislans, Luralahed the folloning InfOrARtiOn:

MASH stated that he has knon EERSON VARNEI

'PRICI, R., 81nce October of 1983: Around Christuns of

1983, hIlo rIdinG 11 PRICI'S CAI, he BRN On the soat da

orange of yellow notebook (could not socall for suro the

dract color) uith the nano LEB HARVY OSWALD itton On

the cover, along with sono other uriting which appeared to

bo written by the sano Individual that troto the nano. ¿ Ho

vas unable to recall the other uriting. Ho asid PRIC

about the sane, and PRICI sald sonothing about picking ip

OBVALD hitchhiking on the road. MASH vas unablo to rocall

any further dotalla o1 PRICI's OsplanatiOn.:. He vas also

unable to racall whether he and PRICE had discussed the

12233

mattor subsoquently.

HAS statod that ho last saw PRICE sOnOtINO 1n

Apr11, 1964, and PBICE at that thee st1ll had the sotabook

1n the car.

However, he vas unablo to recall the location

of the notebook in the car.

NASH could furnish so further Infornation In thla

mattor.

46

On 9/10/61-01 Provencel, Louisiani

BY BA LIHYON D. BONES: MARM

ada documant costalas sottbar soo

2s agos0y8 11 a0d lle conteste a

- Filo 4- 10 89-89

-Dote dictoted 21

9/11/64

HH 50529 DocId:32263603 Page 39

---

## Page 40

FD-802 (Flov-808-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Doto Septemper 15, 1964

12322-7

VARMER PRICE, OR.

MIB. ALTEBA PATTILLO stated that her sephen,

EMERSON VARNER PRICE, JR., 18 a "pathological 11aI": she

stated that his chances of having given a Ilde in his car

tO LEE HARVEY OSMAID 18 "about one 1n a a11110n" she

stated that her nephew 10 such a llar that "he cannot even

talk about the weather without lying about 1t".

MIX. PATTINO statod that the last tine EMERSON

VARNER PRICE, UR., Was at her hone vas on Christnas Day.

December 25, 1963, at nich time her husband and she had

ordered hin to keep going and not to stop at their house.

The last provious vialt of his to their home in Irvlag,

prior to the Christmas stop, was some three or four months

PreVIOUBLY.

she stated that her nephew was positively not at her.

reBidence In November, 1963, and specifically, on the day of

the assassination of President KiNNEDy.

MIS. PATTILLO stated that she knew of no dental

care her nephew had had in Dallas, Texas. She stated that

she does not know any dentist by the name of "SPIEGAL", but

stated that some nine to tep years ago, she had taken her

nephew to a DICKSOILE

•Spirens, a psychlatriat In dallas,

Taras, for mental treatment. She stated that DI. SPEBGLE'S

offices are located at the Beverly Bills Clinic on West

Moreland in Dallas, but ha does not to her knowledge have any

offices in the Mercantile Bank Bullding in Dallas.

MIR. PATTILLO stated that EMERSON VARHES PRICE, JR..

1o a homosexual, Uho has been treated in the Lentalana state

Asytu at ptresvitto, toutstana.

TEXAS

47

on 9/14/64

by Spocial Agent -

Irving. Texas

RICHARD J. BURNETT/Itf

File &

DI 89-43

9/14/64

Date dictatod.

ilo documant contains nolthes rocommandalions nor concluslons ol the §Bl. ll la tha proparty ol the FBI and la locred l

your aGanEy: It and lla contanla are sol to be diatriburod outaldo yons agacy.

HH 50529 DooId: 32263603

Page

40

---

## Page 41

DI. 89-43

She stated that her husband and she had gotten so

they could not bellave one word he sald. They have ordered

his to stay away fron their home in IrVIng, Iexas, as ha 18

a disgrace to tham... when he would sialt them ha would sleep

In the car all day, stay up all night, and bring the strangest

type of young sen home with bino.

MIS. PATTILIO noted that it 18 too bad anyone vould

have to conduct any inguiry on the basis of any information

fur-.,lahod by her nophow as she Is confident that any type of

Information furnished by him on any natter whatsoever would

be complotoly fictitious.

48

30329

DooId: 32263603

Page

41

---

## Page 42

FD-802 (R00. 8-8-50)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

'Data September 15, 1964

1

MIR. MAUDE FAJERSON, Clerk, Bullding Manager'& OffICo.

Mercantile Bank Building, corner of south BIvay and COmmerce

streets, Dallas, Texas, advised that this bullding has no tenant

by the nams of DI.. SPIBGAL, OI similar name, and has not had such

8 namod tanant during 1963 and to date 1n 1964.

9/14/64

49

Dallas, Texas

Filo #-

DI. 89-43

by Spacial Agent

RICHARD J. BURNETT /Jt£

-9/14/64

- Dato dictorod

Tala documasl contadas polther rocommendaldoas nos conclualons ol lha FBI. Il la the proparty ol lso FBI esA la lousad to

your agoney: ll and lla contents are sol lo ba distalbuted outaldo yos egoney.

HH 50529 DocId:32263603 Page 42

---

## Page 43

FD-802 (R00-8-8-88)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Doto Saptamber 15. 1964

=?

EMERSON VARHER PRICE, JR., daring the course of hit

Intervion on August 13, 1964, at shreveport, Louisiana, stated

that he had cormented to the "rider" to whom he had given &

Isde to Dallas on MovembeI 20, 1963, and Whom he bellevas was

IBE HARVEY OSWALD, that the address wiltten down by the

"Ilder" as his hora address in Irving, Texas, NaB an address

near his aunt's rosidence at 1721 Beverly Parkway, Irving.

On septenber 14, 1964, Spaclal Agent RICHARD J:

BURNETT drove the most diract route between the aunt's addrass

at 1721 Beverly Parkway, Irving, and the home of lice BullE

PATHE 3515 KeAt FLETh STIRRIE INSARE, MeIe LE HARVEY OSWATO

resided while living In Irving, and notod that the total

distance between these tho residences 18 approximately 4.6 miles:

TeXaS

It is further notod that the residence of MIs. PAIlE

Is located to the southwest of the aunt's home and away from

Dallas, Техав.

Tha most common and diract route for someone to

travel from the aunt's home to downtown dallas mould be to drive

several blocks north and then turn east on Highway #183, an

expIEBaWaY, loading directly to downtown dallas.

For one to traval to dallas from the aunt's address

via the neighborhood of the residance of Mis. Palue's would be

completely out of the way and in the opposite direction from

Dallas.

on

9/14/64

50

Dallas, Texas

Fila # DI 89-43

RICHARD J. BURNBIT /It£

by Special Agant

Date dictated

9/14/64

rola docusent contalan salthes recommandations so conclantons ol the FBI. ll la tha proparty of the FBI and la lossed i

our agency: It and the contenta ano bot to bo distalbated outaldo your agency.

HH 50529 DocId:32263603 Page 43

---

## Page 44

DI 89-43

BJB: 1tI/ pm

It is noted that ENERSON VARNER PRICE, JR. durta!

the course of his intervien on August 13, 1964, at Shreveport,

Louisians, had stated that he was treated 11 Dallas, Texas,

Iron November 19, 1963, through November 22, 1963, by & dentist

named DI. "SPIEGAL", WhOSe O111Ces vere located on either the

sixth or seventh floors of the Mercantile Bank Bullding in

Dallas, Техяв.

A review of the Dallas Telephone Directories for the

years 1963 and 1964, as NOll as a revIeN of the dallas City

Directories for the same years, does not disclose a dentist

1n the CIty of Dallas by the naMe O1 "SPIEGAL" OF S1N1lRI

spelled surname.

51

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603

Page

44

---

## Page 45

nasarition

DI. 89-43

RPG: pa

Investigation is continuing 1n the state o1 Loulslam

concerning the infornation furnished by EMERSON VARNER PRICE, JR.

52

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603

Page

45

---

## Page 46

•..

DL. 89-48

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603 Page

46

---

## Page 47

DI 89-43

INDEX

Anonymous Letter Postnarked At BIonertos.

Washington, August 23, 1964

Anonymous Letter RoCeivod BY HOW YOrX OffICe

of FBI From.Huddersfleld: England, on

July 24, 1964

Beverly Hilla Clin1c, Dallas, Texas

BOR-AmI COrpOratION

Bruno, Dantal A.

B.I. Babbit Company

BuBke, Erlodrich Axel Rudoll Johannes

Buske, FIledrich Rudolf

Cabore, Plorence T.C.

DIIkBen, Everett N.. Senator

Dragomit, Anghel

FajerSOn, Maude, MIB.

Pinlay, Altrod

NW 50529

Doc1d:32263603

Page

PAGES

41

41

15

13.

14.

27.

30

28 .

3

31,

32

49

11

22

---

## Page 48

: DI 89-43

:.i:

INDEX

Garrick, Ernest 8.

Galling, Peter

Garlach

Gumpert, I. Jases

-ind

Harvey, Thonas

B.B. Ives Company, New Haven, Connecticut

Hover, J. Edgar

Jackson, Barl

Jackson, "scoop"

John BlIch Socloty

Johnsen, "Lady Bird".

MIs.

Kennedy, Bobby

Kennedy, Jacgueline

Kennedy. Robert

Kennedy: Teddy

Rollocker

•55-

HH 50529

DocId.32263603 Page

48

PAGES

363G

34.

37, 39

41

10

10

3

30

7

32

30

22

25.

:26

---

## Page 49

DI 89-43

LIDEX

InGrange & Company, b1 Broadway, Hew YOrk

city

¿aGrange COmpanY

LaGrange, Frank C.

Louislana Stato Asylun, P1n08011l0, Loulsians

Michel, Thomas, Father

Murphy, 4. J.

Hash, James A.

Mew York Central Ballroad

Ogden, Elfzabeth Ans, MIs.

Paine, Ruth, Mrs.

Patt111o, Althea, Mrs.

PIlCO, Emerson varnes, JI.

Puget sound Naval Shipyard, Bramerton.

Washington

- 56-

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603 Page 49

PAGES

43

40. 41, 43

47

32

10

46

41

11

50

44;

45. 46.

47 ;

50,

51.

52

---

## Page 50

DI. 89-43

SECRET.

LNDEX

PAGES

Radio Station W-BR, Baltinore, Masyland

Rawles, J.л.

Rutland Railway Corporation, Rutland.

vermont

3. 6

35, 38

41

-3=

ShIlveI, HaLtY

sloux Railroad Company, New York CIty

SulleY, B. M.. Commander

Speagle, Jackson E.. DI.

spiegal, DI.

Stevenson, Adlai

Suppe, Charles 0.

28

47

49.

51

30

29

19, '26

-14-

Haldon, W1111

waldow, Hilly

Wall Street Journal

Whitted, Richard

26

:18

41

28, 29, 30

-578-

SECRET,

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603

Page

50

---

## Page 51

D-232

віу сту.

191 уоріти 0/

HH

50529

DocId: 32263603

Page

51

---

## Page 52

HH 50529

DocId: 32263603

Page 52

---

## Page 53

HH

50529

DocId: 32263603 Page 53

---

## Page 54

D-232

50529

DocId: 32263603

Page

54

---

