# docid-32294338

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10213-10114

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-439

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 45966 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

LABADIE, STEPHEN J.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/23/1962

'PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS :

LST, ASSOC AND REL, GAMBLING ACT, TAX MATTERS,

PROPERTY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

_Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

02/16/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS:

v9.1

HH 45966

DocId: 32294338

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TP 92-1

The records of the First National Bank of Tampa,

416 Franklin Street, Tampa, Florida, were made available

by JAMES F. ADAMS, Vice President.

INFORMANTS:

TP T-1 is CS TP 51-C, whose identity is known to the Bureau.

TP T-2 is TP 50-PCI,

whose identity is known to the Bureau.

TP T-3 is IP 41-C, whose identity is known to the Bureau.

Fisurs on subject conducted January 4 and 5, 1962,

by SAs JOHN M. ERWIN, JOSEPH B. BLAKE, THOMAS L. LOVERING,

JOHN W. ROUSE, LESTER R. WALTHERS, WILLIAM C. HAY, FRANCIS

X. O'BRIEN, JOHN CALVIN DARST and

I LAURIE B. MC DONALD.

- C*

COVER PAGE

913-10110

HH 45966

DocId: 32294338

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP: 92-1

JOSEPHINE TRAFFICANTE, Wife Of SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., the

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and the First Federal

Savings and Loan Association of Winter Haven.

The article relates the suit asks the court to

direct FRANK C. TRAFFICANTE, administrator of the estate of

FRANK and the widow of SANTO, SR. are

LELEKIS, BARNHILL, FERNANDEZ

and BEATY are all linked in the

suit for not paying wagering tax assessments, penalties and

interest.

The government seeks sale of HENRY BARNHILL'S home

in Winter Haven to satisfy its claim for taxes against him,:

First Federal Savings and Loan of Winter Haven holding

a mortgage on this home was therefore named as one of the

defendants.

Two life insurance policies totaling $10,000.00

on the life of SANTO, JR. are mentioned and such is the reason

for naming Metropolitan Life Insurance Company as a defendant.

The article also noted that the government once before

sought to collect income taxes from SANTO, JR. and SAM

TRAFFICANTE, having reached a stipulated settlement on a portion.

of the taxes in 1959 totaling $84,000.

The suit further

alleges SANTO,

JR. and SAM have paid only a portion of the

settlement and SANTO, JR. still owes $46,164. while SAM owes

$26,813.

Additionally, SANTO, JR. and SAM are billed together

with others of the defendants, as owing $135,957. in gambling

taxes, penalties and interest. HENRY TRAFFICANTE OWeS

$4,480 back income taxes and he and his wife are named in

another account as owing an additional $1,882. in joint income

taxes.

On January 12, 1962, Mr. WINFIELD V. ELROD,

Collection Unit, Internal Revenue Service, Tampa, advised

SA LABADIE that

ÜEK-Law 11(a)

REVIEWED BY ELIJFK TASK FORGE

6

ON

7-2298dot

RELEASS IN FULL

RELEAGE IN PART

I TOTAL DEMAL

92-2781-439030l9i

HH 45966

DocId: 32294338

Page 3

---

