# docid-32300682

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10277-10017

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2918-27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

(Restricted]

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/25/1958

1

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/03/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32300682

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

eleased wiler the John T

Kerredy Assassmation Records Collection Act of 1992 714 USC 2107 Hote).

DA Es iRev: 1-25-57

11714-2,11

Airgram

DECODED COPY

Cablegram

Tổlson

Nichols

Boardmar

Del mont

Moh

Parsons

pRosen -

Tamm -

Trotter

Nease -

Tele. Room

Holloman

Gandy -

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

EREIN IS UNU

LASSIFIED

8211,326

ATE

• RECEIVED:

DECODE OF CODED MESSAGE NUMBER 748 DATED MARCH 25, 1958

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO. RECEIVED VIA AIRGRAM

SAMUEL

MANNARINO, WAS; GABRIEL MANNARINO, WAS, PCFM.

REMYCAB

FEBRUARY 7 LAST AND MYLET FEBRUARY 18 ENTITLED QUOTE CHARLES

FREDERICKA TEEMER WAS, AR UNQUOTE. CONTINUED CHECKS WITH

MEXICO CITY METROPOLITAN POLICE AND MEXICAN IMMIGRATION

SERVICE DEVELOPED NO INFORMATION CONCERNING ARREST OF TEEMER

IN MEXICO CITY JANUARY, 22 LAST. CHIEF OF FEDERAL JUDICIAL

POLICE: COLONEL ARMANDO VELDERRAIN ADVISED PERSONNEL OF THAT

POLICE HAD SURVEILLED GAMBLING CLUB AT CALLE MONTANAS ROCALLOSAS

310 PONIENTE, MEXICO CITY PRIOR TO ITS BEING RAIDED AND CLOSED

BUT HAD WITHDRAWN FROM CASE. HE STATED HE UNDERSTOOD 1 OR 2

AMERICANS HAD BEEN DETAINED AND HELD TEMPORARILY AND WERE SAID -

TO HAVE INTEREST IN GAMBLING OPERATIONS. HE BELIEVED ARREST

HAD BEEN MADE*BY THE 6TH POLICE PRECINCT AND ALSO MENTIONED

THAT HE HAS RECEIVED UNCONFIRMED INFORMATION THAT QUOTE THE

AMERICAN UNQUOTE HAD RETURNED TO MEXICO CITY AND WAS SEEKING

TO REOPEN THE GAMBLING ESTABLISHMENT

'EFFORTS BEING MADE TO

CLARIFY ABOVE: BUT REQUEST PITTSBURGH ADVISE IF PRESENT WHERE-

ABOUTS OF TEEMER KNOWN.

JOHN N. SPEAKES

3-27-583:40 PM

REG- 45

: EX.

131

REC- 23

1CC TO PG BY

EX-135

92-2918-27

1958

0125 FOR APP... ACTION

3-31-58 164/81

APR 1 / 1958/08 1936

ee"

If the intelligence contaired in

the

message is. to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is/suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order

io, protecothe Burgau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32300682 Page 2

---

