# docid-32273061

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10145-10274

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

54-08-03E

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/28/1978

5

CIA, FILES

MEXICO CITY STATION

CIA, METHODOLOGY

DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/29/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 29

NH V53080

DocId: 32273061

Page 1

Date:

4/19/201

Released under the John

f. Kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

{44 USC 2107 Notel.

CasefiNd 53080 Date:

06-05-2017

---

## Page 2

JAN HARDWAY

SECRET

29 MAK 1978

substituts AliAs.

for

trus Name

Ditzid 24

Interview of

3/28/78, by Dan Handway.

Me acknowledge

that he had seen a go de-

stood it

BipiA

said that

involved in technicalapera =

in addition to the liaion

tapo, the marico Station hard

extensive unilateral telephone

coveragion the sorret and

Cuban embasses

, said that

Shadoverall.

when.

that time

ran

said that there

Tie was

0000870

53080: Do0Id:32273061 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

see for this bastrida

no cho ran this base

an on that there

tanical gestion no themem

bevang details alont it.

picked ugs the

reduction from this base

Euployee

• proseng.

Ted widen a

he left he: was replaced by

Hewas sure

that

GIAiR

being involved in an

operatans.wutith

was sure that?

1235030

would

know all about the Cuban

photo operation because he had

0000311

Doö

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Mo.

said

that the matting to

Mexico station was that

at iras very busy and

EMPloyee

was "a mayor

cog" in the techinsical.

aperations in Mexico. He

worked outside as a supply.

and bis it manhe mana

aperations.

was notsure

but he thought that?

was

else's brother-in-law. Healso

thought thats

had:

been involved in some

kind of surveillanceoperation.

Endlagee.

wasan

outside.Contract agent

who was involved,

technician, on all the hstenin

posio. He is also had a lot?

0000312

DocId: 32273061

---

## Page 5

SEGRET

to do with all the technical

BLAIR

probabled had h

better than

amn hing dad heard about

system for the f desistry

54 sojoe

incompetance.ov.lack.of

thognahness.

said that

she was a hard

alt who did experything

very competant, who helped

BLAIR

said that

53080 DocId:32273061- Fage:

---

## Page 6

SECRET

Endoes That

Gerations officer bunt

did

most of the technical/

aperationas.wark.

Employee

BLAIR

belierses that So

BRAN

Mexico in 1961 and doca

not rem

ember who

= believes

that have Phillips replaced

as chick of

ulian les sometimeatter

3 had left Mexico.

Dn 1962

tie cries of the Nogalet bas

iles bade

wasan

ex-EBI man that Scott

picked up. He couldit

he did but remem

exactly what

that he was involved, in

some way, with the Bay

of Pigs.

SECRET

0000314

DooId:32273061. Page 6

---

