# docid-32302165

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44

UsC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10280-10102

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-74151-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, MM

TITLE:

DATE: 12/04/1958

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/20/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32302165

10

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released wider

the donn 1. Kennety Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107

Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

sit

ALD INTERLAC

NUNSTE IS US

irt

23

CONZATRED

MISSIFIDE

Tolson.

Boardman

Belmont

Mohr

Nease

Parsons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan -

Tele. Room

Holloman -

Gandy -

SAC, Miami

SECRET

December 4, 1953

Director, FBI (1650 74157)

9/20 8

ВанаВ бовАнІ (нк

Classified ly

SP6 BJA/GCL

ALRAITO BLANCO

ANTONZO CURLAN

IS • CUBA

ReBulet 11/10/58.

Enclosed for each of the offices receiving

this communication is a copy of a report dated

11-13-58 received from a confidential source abroad

on 11-25-580

In furnishing the enclosed date the

or a set one to do gate dude art in ayran

Alberts Blanco and Ántonto Cuaran.

The confidential

source abroad added that subsequent to

the publication

BI'of the attached report information us, received that

1. B the correct names of these individuals' are Alberto Crescendo

NOS:

1a Crus Menendez and Osualdo Antonip Castell y Valdes.

_The conidention source abroad. aduised ine none oj the

-tend person in the planets

NOS

other particulars concernine cata to beaubento

him are

ro. Frie

14rr dip

the Cos Customs in Miami already had the

"detalls authis matter. _on 11-12-58 Ir. Stanley accompanied

the lead of Iome ice upectal Branch to Cauman to interview

charles Hormel.

abroad was massified asecret: "ee contidential source

Any pertinent information received concerning the

actlvities of the individuals mentioned in the enclosure

should be promptly furnished the Bureau.

he tomation recoin

the confidential source abroad is incorporated in reports

or otherwise disseminated,

1E Should be appropriately

paraphrased®

MAILMD, 31, i

Enclosure

DÈC - 4 1958

C0141-221

• New York (Enclosure)

1. - Favors (Enclosure)

- Toreign Liaison Unit

I Lasto REC 96/05-1415/-

SEE NOTE PAGEDWOD 1958

= 105-69648 (Charles Hormel)

1 - 109-430

(cuban Revolutionary Activities)

MAIL ROOM-IA

ALETE DIE 15 UNU SECRED

No den

Copy

UNPE:

DocId: 32302165 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the dohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records ColTection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107

Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

"SECRET)

Letter to Miami

Re:

Alberto Blanco

Antonio Guzman

T39078

NOTE:

Go to 222550 me red detaile de ver o

ond charles william tormel were involved. sorel is subject of

by the authorities there. The subjects

Customs case and Miami Customs official went to cayman to

interview Hormel. since all persons involved have Miami

addresses, we ar

gluing into

Purist us with any pertinent intolved.

to Miami with instructions to

Miami may receive concerning

the activities of the persons

M6 10 22300/6

SECREID

DocId: 32302165

Page 3

---

