# docid-32291817

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of T9Y7 (14 05C 2107 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System.

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10208-10093

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-2038

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/09/1.967

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

KESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/24/1998

SGI, INVEST, PEP

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32291817 Page 1

299

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107, Hote) •

PAT56 11Y522-0417

ex55-22-64)

CONFOENTIAL

Date: 6/9/67

CONTIDENTING

ransmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

ABeR

fiority)

2.

PROPRIATE AGENC

AND

ADIT CO

SLIP

DA

"DON

Via _

AIRTEL

ALL INFORMATION C

FY 127

EEPT FRO

DATE GEDDO!

To:

Director, FBI (92-3171)

From:

egat, Mexico City. (92-13) P

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, ARA

FAR HAN

ST

DAIL

BY 6

A CON-FO.

CLASSIPIED BY

EXEM?

Tit 16?!

LIE

Remy cable 6/6/67.

¿TO CE DECLASSITICATION INDI

The following information was received 6/6/67 from

JORGE VAZQUEZ ROBLES, Chief of the Inspection Service of

Mexican Immigration (Gobernacion), an important contact of

this office.

This

dissemination.

Information should not be repeted olou

As has

been previously reported subjects waste

10/25)

presented in Mexico by Attorney JORGE CASTILLO Zo, Plaza

de La Repulica #32, Mexico City. He has been characterized

by source as a responsible attorney specializing in

immigration. matters and is in frequent contact with high

officials of Mexican Immigration:

u) :

On 6/7/67 he furnished them with a post card

which he claimed to have received from the subject.

He also

advised that he had received a previous post card from the

subject from Palma de Mallorca, Spain, dated about the first

of May, 1967•

The recent post card appears to be post-

marked

"Nice R.F., ALPES NARITIMES."

The post card has a

ICTULE..0J

a girl

in native costume.and is imprinted "COTE

The post card reads

Bureau

(1 - Liaison Section)

(1. - Legat, Rome-Info)

(1 - Legat, Paris-Info)!

(2 = Chicago, 92-349)

- Mexíco City

Get med

16 JUN 12 1967

Teodo

y0-26/16/67

GIL: mned

DENTIA

Per -

Approved 2

38 JUN 261 Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32291817 Page 2

---

## Page 3

released under,

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Art

DATE: 11-14-2017

1992

HSC 3107 Hote).

CONFENTLA

MC 92-13

CONF

"Hello JORGE, havi

wonderful time in France, it

sure is a beautiful countr

far, will. let you know ifli

Eloreanining bettere Hoping

in seeing you next year sometime

ALways ra near Irien

It is noted that the card had a sticker "POR AVIONA

and under this sticker was handwritten "ySA" (possibly USA) Cy(4w)

The attorney has promised to notify Mexican

Immigration of any further contacts by the subjecti

Information copies to Legats, Paris and Rome

because of possibility subject may be traveling in the

Mediterranean. |

1(44)

LEAD

MEXICO CITY

AT MEXICO, D. Fo

Will maintain contact with Mexican Immigration.

COMMAN

DocId: 32291817 Page 3

---

