# docid-32332866

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: ' FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90104-10164

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2940-42

Reisaaed

nades the wear

Kerrest

Repareirazier Reozade

Cecteoster Aos =5 2332

144 280 2000 Mabel.

Caeee:07, 45856 Sabe:

-=--23=-

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/23/1958

'PAGES:

29

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/05/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

NW 45836

10

DocId: 32332866

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG 92-226

Guard, Canton, Ohio, 10/14/58;TGP; ITSP," (PG file 52-1687)

stolen Government weapons to Cuban Rebels);

Osage, w.va.,

11/10/50; INFO CONCERNING;

et al; ELECTION LAWS," (PG file 56-89).

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following individuals are presently being utilized by the

Pittsburgh Office in the SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA investigation:

PG ,573-C, who is extremely friendly with the GENOVESE

brothers

and particularly FIORE GENOVESE, Younger

brother of MIKE GENOVESE, and who is presently being

utilized for the general

coverage of the Red Eagle

Club and its visitors.

PCI of the Pittsburgh Office, who

1s

well

acquainted with most of Pittsburgh's top hoodlums

and who was formerly employed as a waitress in the Red

Eagle Club, once known as the Genovese Cocktail Lounge,

412 Larimer Avenue, Pittsburgh.

She still visits this

establishment and comes in constant contact with MIKE

GENOVESE and other members of Pittsburgh's racketeering

element in her role as a medium-priced prostitute.

is presently traveling with Mrs. JULIA MINIZ, widow or

co-owner of EZZARD CHARLES, former World's

heavyweight boxing champion.

She is presently being

utilized for the coverage of the GENOVESE-LA ROCCA-NELSON

interests.

JEK Act 6 (4)

I a PCI who is presently very active

in Pittsburgh numbers operations and who was arrested

during the month of August, 1958,

In connection with his

operation. l

is intimately

acquainted with many

Pittsburgh top hoodlums and racketeers through association

with them when they began their racket careers. He is

presently being utilized for coverage of the GENOVESE-

NELSON interests and is also contributing information

regarding the VOLPE brothers, present Pittsburgh top

hoodlums who are close associates of GENOVESE and LA ROCCA.

PCI of the Pittsburgh Office presently

-A-

COVER PAGE

+0 100-10181

NW 45836 DooId: 32332066 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-226

engaged in racket activity in the City of Pittsburgh

who is being utilized for general coverage of lottery

and numbers operations in the Pittsburgh area.

a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office who

is part owner of the notorious

gambling establishment

at Chester, W. Va., known as Club 30, who is being

utilized for information concerning the club and the

interest in it of Pittsburgh hoodlums associated with

both LA ROCCA and GENOVESE.

a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office.

who is being utilized for information concerning

Pittsburgh prostitution activities and as a check on

the activities of

JEK Act 6 (4)

AL BUCK, former Allegheny County Detective and now

Vice President of the Fidelity Trust Company, Loan

Department, Pittsburgh, who is being utilized for his

knowledge of

the Bankers Exchange in Pittsburgh from

which he can obtain information regarding bank loans

made to Pittsburgh top hoodlums.

BUCK is also familiar

with the activities of several of Pittsburgh's top

hoodlums, particularly those of LA ROCCA, from having

worked on criminal matters for many years in the City of

Pittsburgh.

a confidential source of the Pittsburgh

Office who is being utilized for information concerning

the MANNARINO organization in New Kensington, Pa., and who

is also furnishing information regarding tie-ups with

the GENOVESE organization in Pittsburgh.

a confidential source of the Pittsburgh

Office who was extremely helpful to Pittsburgh Agents

during the investigation of the RALPH KINER extortion

investigation several years ago and whose brother-in-law,

NORMAN FARBER, 1s a member of the MANNARINO organization.

In an effort to increase criminal informant coverage, the PCIs

under development are being contacted on a continuing and regular

basis so that information obtained from them may be used on a

day-to-day basis in connection with spot surveillances of the

-B-

COVER PAGE

NW 45836 DocId: 32332066

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

establishments frequented by the subject when he is in the

Pittsburgh vicinity.

The identity of the anonymous informant calling himself "TIGER".

is still being sought so that he may be contacted personally and

will no longer have to depend on the written word for the

furnishing of his racket information to the Pittsburgh Office.

It is anticipated that THOMAS MARTIN, Vice President of the

Real Estate Department of the Potter

Bank and Trust Company

in Pittsburgh, will keep the Pittsburgh Office advised of any

new developments concerning the proposed construction of a

motel financed by MIKE GENOVESE and ARTHUR D. NELSON in the

Monroeville, Pa., vicinity which would undoubtedly have to have

the approval and

overall financial backing of SEBASTIAN JOHN

LA ROCCA.

It is further anticipated that former Pittsburgh top hoodlum,

SAMUEL NATHANIEL LEVINE, who is now a PCI for the Pittsburgh

Office and who Is well acquainted with LA ROCCA, will be

contacted at regular intervals so that a more complete picture

of the racketeering activities in the City of Pittsburgh may

be obtained.

It should be noted that contacts with LEvInE to

date have achieved the latter objective to a degree but have

not been productive. in furnishing information.concerning LA ROCCA.

LEADS®

BALTIMORE, JACKSONVILLE; MIAMI AND PHILADELPHIA - INFORMATION

One copy of this report is being furnished to the Baltimore

Office inasmuch as MAX LOUIS GOLDBERG, the personal accountant

and close associate of the subject, makes his permanent

residence in that city. Although the Baltimore Office has

temporarily given up contacting GOLDBERG because of his critical

Illness, it is felt that he may be contacted at a future date.

It should be noted that LA ROCCA oweS GOLDBERG more than

$5,000 at present and thet if his illness does prove to be

fatal, it is a foregone conclusion that LA ROCCA will travel

to Baltimore to see the GOLDBERG family.

One copy of this report is being furnished to the Jacksonville

and Miami Offices for information purposes because of allegations

made by the wife of LA ROCCA and Pittsburgh informants concerning

-C-

COVER PAGE

+0108-808888

NW 45836 DooId: 32332066 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-204 (Rev. 9-23-58)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

File Number:

Title:

SA ROBERT A. VOEGE

DEC 2:3.1958

PG 92-226

Bufile 92-2940

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, aka

Office: PITTSBURGH

Character: ANTI-RACKETEERING

JEK Law 10(a)2

Synopsis:

Wife of LA ROCCA is confined at Mercy Hospital, Pittsburgh,

pa.; following surgery on 11/21/58 which was performed

by same physician who operated on SAMUEL MANNARINO, Pittsburgh

top hoodlum, during May, 1958. Associates and informants

indicate that IA ROCCA

has not returned to Pittsburgh vicinity

and has ostensibly trusted his business and personal affairs

CO JOHN J. CONTI, a cousin and MIKE GENOVESE. Pittsburgh anc

national top. hoodlum.

his partner at l

Automatic Carwash in Pittsburgh, received

subpoenas to appear before Grand Inquest for the!

to testify and give evidence

regarding alleged violation of numerous sections and titles,

U.S. Code.

Possibility that IA ROCCA and GABRIEL MANNARINO,

Pittsburgh and national top hoodlums, are hiding at hunting

lodge in Pennsylvania section near Maryland border being

explored. Information relating to legitimate business

operations of LA ROCCA set forth.

IN VIEW OF THE CONVICTION

OF SUBJECT FOR ASSAULT WITH INTENT TO KILL AND HIS ARREST FOR

CARRYING A CONCEALED WEAPON, HE MAY BE ARMED AND SHOULD BE

CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

-P-

92-1940-42

This docent comforts neither recommendation; nor conchysians of ory hind, I the rapart of the st, and e a loan to pour sa/a

it and or its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency. TO(018-116774637-113080

NW 45836 DooId: 32332066 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-226

Allegheny County. Records in this regard were reviewed

by THOMAS MC QUAIDE and PATRICK MC CORMICK, Identification

Officers for the Pittsburgh Police Department and Allegheny

County Detective Bureau, respectively.

Miss ALYCE TAFELSKI, Clerk,

Pittsburgh Credit Bureau, Inc.,

035 Smithiield Street, Pittsburgh, Pa., advisea on October 17.

1958, that she has a record for JAMES CEFALO and his wife.

ISABELLE dated February 15, 1956, at which time he lived

at 59 Cheyenne Drive, Pittsburgh 5, Pa., and was buying his

own home.

The report stated that he had lived at this address

for: two years and had formerly resided at 829 Inwood Street

He was listed as

and at 7139 Fleuryo years of age in 1956, and had two children

eing from 3o to

at that time.

His employment was shown as that of a driver

for Continental Transportation Lines at McKees Rocks, Pa.,

since 1935.

Former employments were shown as conte Brothers

and Kramer

Brothers. It was also reflected thathis credit

record was satisfactory and that he had a satisfactory checking

account at the Crafton Branch of the Peoples First National

Bank.

The "pittsburgh Post-Gazette" carried an article in its

October 23, 1958, issue which indicated that JOSEPH/VOLPE,

a close associate of the subject, and his friend, THOMAS

SENELIS:

were indicted by the Allegheny County Grand Jury

on October 22, 1958, at Pittsburgh, for attempting to bribe

a juror in the Katz-Stupak Racket Trial. The article

stated that

both were charged with conspiring to commit

"embracery" which the paper defined as the legal term for

approaching a juror and solicitation to commit embracery.

The article described VOLPE as the owner of the Rainbow Gardens

at Mckeesport, Pa., and "youngest member of the notorious

Volpe clan."

On November 26, 1958, ALBERT DIMEOLO, United States Marshal

for the Western District of Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh, advisec

SA ROBERT A, VOEGE that he had just received subpoenas to be

served to

and his partner,

ordering them

to appear before the Grand Inquest

for

the

ÜEK-LA

10(a) 2

-11-

922040r14701

1492)

NW 45836 DooId: 32332866 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PG 92-226

at 9:45 AM on

I to testify and

give evidence in regard to an alleged violation of the following

sections of the United States Code:

Sections 371, 1406, Title 18, United States Code

Sections 174,

Title 21, United States Code

section 7237 (A and B), TItle 26, Inited States Code

He advised that the subpoenas were signed br

JEK

Jaw 10(a)2

He stated that the

subpoenas would be served on that date and that he would notify

the Pittsburgh Office if any problems arose.

He also advised

that a subpoena was being issued to be served at the same time •

session of the Federal Grand Jury as requested by HUBERT

1.

TEITELBAUM, United States Attorney, Western District of

Pennsylvania, at Pittsburgh.

On October 29, 1958, the Philadelphia Officewas advised that

I-4, who has furnished considerable reliable information concem-

the legitimate enterprises of the MANNARINO brothers and

particularly information concerning real estate transactions

involving SAMUEL MANNARINO; had advised during February, 1958,

that SAMUEL MANNARINO, during the early portion of 1957, mentioned

that he had purchased

a hunting lodge surrounded by 200 acres

of. land. At that time the informant understood MANNARINO to

say that the lode was there ter was son can to dentit

extensive investigation thereafter was conducted

the hunting lodge since several sources in the Pittsburgh

vicinity belleve the lodge would be an excellent hide-out for

GABRIEL MANNARINO and his close friend, SEBASTIAN JOHN

LA ROCCA, who disappeared from the Pittsburgh vicinity durin

December, 1957, to

with subpoenas to

appear before

a Federal Grand Jury in the

inquiring into the significance of the

The Philadelphia Office was further advised that the two afore-

mentioned top national hoodlums were also being sought by Senator.

JOHN MC CLELLAN, Chairman of the U.S. Senate Select Committee

-12-

9224441540494918

NW 45836 DooId: 32332866 Page 7

---

## Page 8

PG 92-226

on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Fields.

In connection with the aforementioned efforts ito identify

the location of the hunting lodge, the informant originally

To eng and in and meanin of a to ho brothe 215 -

the MANNARINO brothers,

that SAMUEL MANNARINO's hunting lodge is not located in

Somerset County, Pa., but is actually a twenty-room farm house

generally referred to as a hunting lodge, surrounded by approx-

the Pennsylvania-Maryland border, approximately a fifteen minute

drive by automobile from Hagerstown, Maryland. The informant

recalled that he had been in the office of SAMUEL MANNARINO

during December, 1957, when the press and radio carried

the first accounts of

the fact that GABRIEL MANNARINO had been

called before the Federal Grand Jury in New York. He stated

that shortly thereafter SAMUEL MANNARINO received a telephone

call from GABRIEL MANNARINO in his presence and hurriedly

told him

"they are trying to serve you with a subpoena. Take

off for the brush."

The informant stated that it seemed

logical to him that if SAM MANNARINO's

remarks were interpreted

IIterally his advice could have been his subtle way of telling

his brother to proceed to the hunting lodge.

The aforementioned informant said that according to his

source of information, the general area surrounding the

lodge is thickly populated with whiskey stills, and that local

game wardens are reluctant to enter the area because some of

them have been mistaken for Agents of the Alcohol and Tobacco

Tax Unit and have been fired upon by the moonshiners.

The Philadelphia Office was requested, through the Recorder

of Deeds for Franklin County, Pa., to attempt to identify

the aforementioned lodge and to display photographs of

MANNARINO and LA ROCCA at Waynesboro, Pa., and vicinity near

the Maryland border to game wardens,

reliable police officers,

and other sources to locate the hunting lodge

and determine

whether MANNARINO and LA ROCCA are hiding out in that locality

or have been there in the past six to ten months.

-13-

10101-888888

NW 45836 DooId: 32332866

Page 8

---

## Page 9

PG 92-226

The New York Office advised on November 20, 1958, in reply

to a request to interview FRANK JOSEPH VALENTI, who is confined

to the New York City Civil Jail, that the New York Office believes

it inadvisable to conduct süch an interview inasmuch as there

is no indication that he would be willing to cooperate with

the law enforcement officers at this time. It was further

noted that there is no indication that he could be interviewed

with full security and that his interview might be subjected

to public notice. It was also advised that the activities

of those confined are being very closely followed by the New

York State Crime Commission, and that former Special Agent

JOSEPH MILENKY; Chief Investigator for that body, is advising

the New York. Office of pertinent developments.

JEK Act 6 (4)

The Baltimore Office advised on November 17, 1958, that Mrs.

3701 Clarinth Road, Baltimore, Maryland, advised

that she is the sister of MAX GOLDBERG, then personal accountant

for LA ROCCA, and that she is employed as a secretary in his

office.

She advised that GODDBERG is critically ill in the

New Kensington General Hospital and is suffering from an ulcerated

colon and other complications. She advised that doctors have

said that this illness could be fatal and if not, will cause

GOLDBERG to be incapacitated for some time. She stated that

she was certain that LA ROCCA had not contacted GOLDBERG or

any of the members of his staff in the recent past and that

if he does so, she will immediately contact the Baltimore Office

of the FBI.

C. CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES

I-5; who has furnished reliable information in the past, advised

that he has been unable to develop any information concerning

the present whereabouts of LA ROCCA. He stated that LA ROCCAs

associates have been very secretive of late, but that he has

an idea that LA ROCCA and GABRIEL MANNARINO may again be in Warren,

Ohio.

He again surmised that they had been hidden in the past

by CHARLIE MURGIE of Warren, Ohio, and that MURGIE had taken

them to Florida. He stated

that he had reason to believe that

they were staying close to home as he had learned that the wife

Of LA ROCCA is going to have an operation soon.

-14-

10088-000866

NW 45836 DooId: 32332066 Page 9

---

## Page 10

#JEK Law 10(a)2

PG 92-226

service to

He advised that the first is a

subpoena for the appearance of

before the Federal

Grand Jury for theL

_to testify

and give evidence in regard to an alleged violtion of

and that the

second

is a subpoena for the appearance of LA ROCCA before the U.s.

Senate Select Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor

or Management Field. He again stated that the dates for

these appearances have still not been set and that he

cannot do anything further regarding them until LA ROCCA

returns to Pittsburgh or is located in some other jurisdiction.

He advised that he will notify the Pittsburgh Office in the

event he should learn anything regarding LA ROCCA in this

regard.

Surveillances Conducted Relating to this Investigation:

were made on October 24; November 3, 7, 24,

pittsburgh, which have already been set gort; and December

10, 1950, at 900 West Ingomar Road, Ingomar, and at 12 McCandless

Street, Piusburgh. Nothing of interest to this investigation

was observed during these spot surveillances.

Other Matters of a Miscellaneous Nature

"The Pittsburgh Press" carried a

October 28, 1958, Issue

Chauffeur of

Mannarino. "entitled,

front page article in its

"Probe Spotlight on

The article stated that a new Ken-

THOMAS "SONNY" CIANCUTTI spent sometime

on October 23; 1958; with the Federal Grand Jury at Pittsburgh.

The article stated that there was speculation that the Grand

Jury was asking CIANCUTTI,

racket boss GABRIEL "KELI, reputed to

be the chauffeur of

MANNARINO, Where MANNARINO is

presently hiding.

It said. "KELLY" MANNARINO, had been aucking

process servers with amazing success for several months since

New York authorities started investigating the "crime convention"

which MANNARINO attended at Apalachin.

The paper said that

another man testifying before the Federal Grand Jury on

October 28, 1958, was JOHN FONTANA, convicted of vote fraud in

1954 and the reputed operator of New Kensington's Barbout game.

It should be noted that FONTANA is a close associate of MIKE

-20-

92-20405 140(92

NW 45836 DocId: 32332066

Page 10

---

## Page 11

PG 92-226

INFORMANT PAGE

T-1 1s LOUIS J. REIZENSTEIN, Manager, Washington Trust Office

of the Western Pennsylvania National Bank, who was contacted

on 11/25/58 by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE and requested that his

identity be concealed.

I-2 Is H. W. GLENN, Postal Inspector.

U.S. Post Office, Pitts-

burgh, who was

contacted on 11/24/58 by SA ROBERT A. VOEGI

and who has requested that his identity be concealed.

T-3 1s WILLIAM MEREDITH, Special Agent, Bell Telephone Company

of Pennsylvania, who was contacted by SA HAROLD L. STEVENS

on 11/29/58 and

who has requested that his identity be

concealed.

T-4 1s PG-545-C who was contacted on 10/28/58 by SA RICHARD

GORDON DOUCE.

T-5 is an anonymous informant who on 6/16/58 contacted Assistant

Attorney General D. MALCOLM ANDERSON at the U.S. Department

of Justice, Washington, D.C., by letter, offering to

furnish information to him regarding the activities of

Pittsburgh top hoodlums and racketeers.

on that date he

suggested

that an insert be placed in the personal column

of the "pittsburgh Press"

referring to him as

"TIGER"

furnishing an address where he could write to Mr. ANDERSON

personally. A post office box has been rented by the

Pittsburgh FBI Office and numerous letters regarding the

activities of Pittsburgh top hoodlums and racketeers have

been received to date.

No positive identification of

"TIGER" has ever been

made.

T-6 1s

I a Potential Criminal Informant of

the Pittburgh Office, who was contacted on 11/25/58 by

SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

T-7 Is MISS AGNES ULICNY, Clerk, Dun and Bradstreet, Center

Avenue, Pittsburgh,

Pa, who was contacted on 10/16/58 by

IC GEORGE DIPPOLD and who requested that her identity be

concealed.

T-8 1s

the Pittsburgh Office

SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

A Potentil Criminal Informant of

who was contacted on 11/7/58 by

JEK Act 6 (4)

-23-

10100-10108

NW 45836 DooId: 32332066 Page 11

---

