# docid-32576368

## Page 1

TO

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION*

... GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOI

VERNMENT

Memorandum

Hr. Belmont Clat

Mr. GaLos

LA COSA NOSTRA

DATE: January 7, 1965

Tolson

Mohr

De Loach

Casper -

Callahan -

oprad -

Rosen V

Sullivange

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

AF,

In connection with our intensive investigation regarding

internal strife at La Cosa Nostra's top

level, which has resulted

in the expulsion of Joseph Bonanno from the "commission," a

Los Angeles top echelon criminal informant, who is the brother

of one of Bonanno's ciosest confidants, has reported that Bonanno

has appealed to the parent organization in Sicily regarding

"commission" action taken against his group. This informant

stated that his brother told him that the Mafia in Sicily controlled

the United States counterpart until 1930, when the United States

branch was granted self-governing rights.

Concerning international aspects of La Cosa Nostra, we

have previously developed interesting information, particularly

through our highly sensitive coverage of Philadelphia "commission"

member Angelo Bruno, regarding this organization's counterpart in

Italy. This source

has revealed that the Italian organization is

headed by a "commission," and 1s,

organized by individual "family"

with "boss," "underboss," etc., in a manner similar to the

table of. organization of this country's La Cosa Nostra,

which has

litscorigin in Sicily.

The above source also revealed that the

United States and Italian brother organizations operate independently

in; thatsthe leadership of one does not impose any mandatory control

on that of the other. It was indicated that a member of the

organization from one country is not automatically accepted as

such in the other country, and such an individual must again prove

himself to be accepted as a member should he move from one: country

to another.

The manner in which

accepted protocol between these

groups actually functions is well exemplified by Angelo Bruno?s

visit to Sicily during the pasti few years "during which he met

with one Calogero Sinatra,

whom! he described as recently having

been elevated to the position of boss" '8

Sicily.

While in Sicily, Bruno aiso, Met-with Joseph Ida, who had.

preceded Bruno as "boss"

of the Philadelphia La Cosa Nostra:"family,"

1 - MT.

I - Mr. Gale®

Belmont, re ul .la

Tu 1a 15

REG. 39

35- 6054-8

1 - Mr.

Stanley

1 - Mr.

Me Andrews I

Fi 16 JAN 14 1965

1 - MI.

Emery 3P/DIFCLOS

51965

EX-103

HH

45839 DooId: 32576368

Page 1

---

