# docid-32328068

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90068-10019

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-75147-210-87

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HAV

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 10/24/1956

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

AMERICAN GAMBLING ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

06/24/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

MEMO

DocId: 32328068

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released miter

the John F.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kermedy

Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 711 USC 2107 Hote) .

Heritar

Havana (64-153)

FAV-4 advised on September 28, 1956, that technicallf (f{U)

siot machines are considered legal in fuba, but that importation

machines is against gaban/tey Source

stated, however, that

law is not enforced in

any manher and, that a great number of slot

machines have been brought into Cuba in recent months. Source advised that

all of the major night clubs, bars and places of amusement in large cities

of Cuba have slot machines installed in them. he advised that although

slot machines are brought in with the knowlere and consent of Cuban

Customs, they usually come in cartons which do not identify or state

that slot machines are contained therein.

He advised that this is done

in order to evade the Cuban law prohibiting importation of slot machines

and further to facilitate passing the machines through Customs without

paying full duty for the value of the machines.

Source stated that the gambling establishments in Havana are

operating under a new Cuban law decree which legalizes gambling. He

advised, however, that the slot machines in bars and grills are

technically operating against the law inasmuch as these places do not

have gambling licenses.

Source added that all

of these places give a

large pay-off to the Cuban National Police]

Source advised that the principal importer of slot machines

in Cuba is one ALBERTO ARDURA MOYA who is associated with MARTIN FOX

in the Tropicana Night Club.

Source stated that ARDURA is a close

personal friend of Colonel ROBERTO FERNANDEZ MIRANDA who is the brother-

in-law of President BATISTA of Cuba and who is Director of the Cuban

al Commission of Sports.

in whatever places will accept them

and that Cuba is being flooded with

these machines at the present time

are attached for forwarding by the

Bureau to the Miami (62-3398) and Pittsburgh (94-172 Sub M) Offices.

Miami is requested to furnish the Bureau for forwarding to Havana any

information available concerning importation of slot machines to Cuba

and background information concerning the cases in which slot machines

seized by the Miami Office were destined to Cuba.

Pittsburgh is requested to attempt to further identify NORMAN.

mentioned in referenced Pittsburgh letter as the individual

"alregedly" setting up

slot machines in Cuba for SAMUEL MANNARINO (S)

ti

CONFIDENTIAL dongs-loura

DocId: 32328068 Page 2

---

