# docid-32328513

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90076-10028

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-140181-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

'4

SUBJECTS :

08/13/1965

EMILIO C RIVERA

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

NW 45834

DocId: 32328513

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO: 10

5010-106

MÃY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO

RNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-140181)

DATE:

8/13/65

SAC, MIAMI (105-10317)

(RUC)

EMILIO C.

RIVERA, aka"

IS-CUBA

CONFIDENTIAL

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIR IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Re Memphis

letter to Bureau, 7/7/65.

The following investigation has been conducted at

Miami:

No informants or sources of information, normally

familiar with pro and anti-FIDEL CASTRO elements and

activities, recall having known the captioned individual.

MM 492-S

LyM 815-S and MM 776-s are all experienced C

Cuban investigators; the first two maintain contact with some

sources still in Cuba, and with numerous Cuba news media.

PSI

familiar with many members of the

Cuban Confederation of Workers, CTC, stated on July 14, 1965,

he never heard of subject.

MM 815s

was contacted with negative results on July

20, 1965,

August 6, 1965.

MM 776-S was contacted with

(C)

negative results on August 4, 1965. MM 492-S stated on July

28, 1965, that he did not know the

subject, but furnished the

following data on August 12, 1965, which may be pertinent in

evaluating RIVERA's information:

Most followers of the youth branch of the Orthodox

Party either were, or became, communists. FRANCISCO MALDONADO

the sho orthodo

was

a communist.

NO LOCALITh

27 Bureau (RM)

2-Memphis (105-991) (RM)

2-Miami

(1-134-44).

ELS: pad

(6)

1/21|98

SO MALIGAT

Dectassity 08: /'

DADR.,

UFK

CLASIFED BC 5668 S00/1540181-4

(JFK)

10 AUG 18 7965

NATI

THER 1B, 4

F6O

57 AUG 24 1965

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 45834 DocId: 32328513 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CUBA

MM 105-10317

CONFIDENTIAL

FIDEL CASTRO was a member of the violent group known

as Union Insurrectional Revolucionaria

Revolutionary Union) 'of which EMILIO TRO/RIVERO, apparently CUBA

no relation of subject, was the leader, /and who was shot and

killed September 15, 1947.

CASTRO was an active speaker and rabble rouser in 1952,

but was not a leader of anything as of that

-...

"CASTRO

are not well known to MM 492-S other than RAUL

Persons described as members of his and JUANAYCASTRO,

brother and sister of FIDEL, and CELIA SANCHEZ.

Anyone at

all

well versed in the revolutionary days of. FIDEL CASTRO, and

COBA

even at present, should know that CELIA SANCHEZ, and not CELIA CRUZ

is the secretary and mistress of FIDEL CASTRO, and was in the

Sierra Maestra Mountains with him.

By naming RAFAEN

IAZ LANZ, RIVERA probably means the

well known PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ;

who fled from Cuba in June,

1959, and returned to drop Meaflets on Havana in October, 1959,

denouncing CASTRO as a Communist.

SA EDWIN L. SWEET waS

in

Cuba at that time, as well as when CAMILO CIENFUEGOS and his

plane disappeared, and when Major HUBERT MATOS was arrested as a

"counter-revolutionary"..

RIVERA's reporton these matters is

not factual.

Major DIAZ LANZ has a brother, MARCOS,

but none cuBi

by the name of RAFAEL, insofar as

is known to MM 492-S

Special Agent SWEET.

XIAEX LANZ

MM 492-S, (and many former close associates of

FIDEL CASTRO support his statement) stated that neither FIDELr

RAUL CASTRO ever led anyone in any assault or battle; as a

Speaker, FIDEL worked Cubans up to a point of excitement where they

would make an attack, as he did in the assault on Moncada Barracks

on July 26, 1953, which gave rise to the famous "July 26 Movement",

but neither CASTRO was ever known to be in the front line, and

for this reason, both RAUL and FIDEL always managed to escape.

-2-

CONAIDE..3r

NW 45834 DocId: 32328513 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-10317

CONFIDENTIAL

Confidential source, Dr. AGUSTIN CASTELLANOS, a famous

childrens' Heart Specialist now in charge of the cardiac depart-

ment at Children's Variety Hospital, Miami, Florida, was

extremely active in many charity hospitals in Cuba.

One of

these was ONDI, mentioned by RIVERA, and another was the Sacred

Heart Clinic of Dr. ALFRED ANTONETTI, also mentioned by RIVERA.

Dr. CASTELLANOS knows ANTONETTI very well, but he advised

on August 12, 1965, that he could not recall ever having known

RIVERA, or his mother who allegedly works at the clinic, or

his father who allegedly worked for many years at Casa de

Beneficencia y Maternidad.

Dr. CASTELLANOS pointed out that his

failure to recall subject

or any of his family does not

preclude the possibility that each works, or has worked, just as

subject claims they have.

DI: CASTELLANOS stated ALFREDO PEREZ, CASELLA is

very close friend of his, and now lives somewhere in Panama

and even though CASTELLANOS opposed BATISTA's return to power

and was as active, politically, as his duties as a doctor would

allow, he never knew that PEREZ CASELLA

was a follower of FIDEL

CASTRO.

By subject's own statement, he left Cuba for

the United States, in January of 1958.

Many people who had been

very active in the

guerrilla resistance to BATISTA, especially

young men, had been virtually unknown to police authorities

until after CASTRO'S

advent to power, January 1, 1959.

story of what happened is therefore not first hand after

January, 1958, and his confusion of names could be due to that,

but it appears to be the usual Cuban desire to give the impression

of being of much greater importance than they really are,

especially that portion indicating that his father was an

industrialist (shoes) worth over five million dollars in 1961,

when dispossessed by FIDEL CASTRO. Cuba was noted for its

many, small, privately owned shoe

factories, and a problem

now commented upon by CASTRO controlled newspapers in Cuba,

is that of combining all into one, and taking used parts from the

worst machines to repair and make

serviceable the better of the

other machines.

-3-

NW 45834

DocId: 32328513 Page 4

---

