# docid-32297220

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10218-10496

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6436-39

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/30/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

APR, NOONAN, CONNIE, MED, ASSOC, BUSS ACT, JHO,

TEAMSTERS, CRIMINAL ACT, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

WW 45927

13

DocId: 32297220

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FBI

Date: 12/30/63

Transmit the following in

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEE

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6436)

SAC, liNi YORK (92-2568)

CORNELIUS J. NOONAN aka

NY 3778-C* advisel that there was no activity on

11/13 and 11/24/63.

and AUSTIN FURYheld a generally non-pertinent conversation

concerning TEDDY CLEASCN, However, at one point NOONAN remarked

money. There was no additional information of value obtained

on that date.

There was no pertinent activity on 11/16 to 11/18/63,

inclusive. The information obtained on 11/19/63, has been

furnished to the Bureau by airtel dated 11/23/63.

There was

no pertinent activity from 11/20 to 12/3/63. It is noted that

during this period on 11/26/63, the informant advised that

NOONAN remarked that he had ben sick for ten days.

on 12,4/53, NY 3778-Q* furnished the following

information:

EXTREME CAUTION SHOULD BE USED CONCERNING INFORMATION

FURNISHED BY THIS INFORMANT AND IF THE INFORMATION IS USED IN

-

3. Bureau (92-6436)

-NEw YOrk

(15-0)

1-New York

92-1880)

stanis

1-New York

(92-1917)

1-New York

137-9608)

2249

1-New York

.22-NEN

I-New York

-568

192-6436-39

GPR: bh

5

(10)

DEC

31 1963

Approved:

Speclal Agent in Charge

Sent

M

Per

57

JAN 161964

• 1.

HW 45927 DocId:32297220 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-2568

Apparently FURMY'sson is employed by a company whose employees

NY 1716-C, who is

informant advised these was no additional information receied

on that date.

There was no pertinent activity on 12/14 or 12/15/63.

on 12/16/63, Informant advisel that NOONAN and GLEASON

were in NOONAN's office and NOONAN referred to an individual

who apparently is located in the headquarters of the ILA on

the nineteenth floor as a "very bad individial"

individual apparently is seeking some cort of This

favor from

GLEASON and NOONAN and while neither are desirous of granting

this favor, they are reluctant to refuse this individual because

they are afraid of him.

The informant was unable to identity

this individual at this time.

There was no activity on 12/17/63.

on 12/18/63, the informant advised that there were

two individuals in NOONAN's office with NOONAN and FURBY. ' One

of these individuals was possibly named "Red" GIBSON(ph).

GIBSON and the other unknown individual had been discharged

from a trucking company because theywere allegedly caught

pilfering from one of the cartons on the platform of the

trücking company.

NOONAN and FURy discussed with these individuals the

fact that the security guard at this trucking company had

apparently surprised GIBSON and the other unknown individual

no une con and dual

In the act of pilfering. The guard had ordered them to put

back the pilfered objects and went looking fur a Mr. WALSH

-

6

÷

HW

45927

DocId: 32297220

Page

3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-2568

by PCI

who is employed at this trucking company.

it has been further determined that because of the discharge of

GIBSON

and the urknown subject, the Continental Trucking co.

has been struck by Local 1730,

ILA.

There was no activity from 12/19 to 12/25/63.

A copy of this airtel 1s being designated for 15-0

Insofar as this matter is still being considered by the USA's

office, EDNY for prosecution.

A copy of this airtel plus a copy of the 12/7/62

airtel which furnished information concerning the obtaining of

Christmas presents by NOONAN, FUReMand GLEASON is being furnishea

for 122-NEW.

It is felt that the information furnished in the

12/7/62 airtel plus the information furnished in the irs tant

airtel indicates a pattern of long standing by NOONAN, FUR.51 :8140

GLEASON of taking Christmas presents from employers whose

employees are represented by Local 17 0.

The NYO will attempt to properly evaluate information

furnished by NY 3778-C* and the Burea will be kent immediately

advised of all pertinent activities concerning this informant.

OTHER 4

8

HW

45927 DocId: 32297220

Page 4

---

