# docid-32293685

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10211-10461

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 04/21/1960

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DLH, ASSOC, MED/PERS HIST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45808

DocId: 32293685

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

PTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-01

i UNITED STATES G

ERNMENSECREY

Memoraridum

TO

DIRECIOR, FBI (105-64470)(S)

FROM

SAC, NEW YORK (105-27651 ] 5)

SUBJECT:

ISONID AFANASIEVICH KOVALEV

DATE: APR 2 1 1960

85211326

Classifled by SPABIAlEcl

Dectassify on: BADR 3/26/95

5P8 MAC/KSK

9120-94

л)

Re NY airtel, 4/15/60, captioned

Ave. No a VIsa SA RICHAD W. Fili, that the

as above.

160 Claremont

OTHER 4

that he had just returned from the USSRland wished to meets

for dinner on 4/12/60. Subject requested that i

contact ANNETTE EPSTEIN, since he did not know how to reach .

her, and invite her to attend this dinner.

I said_that

he contac

and him.

EPSTEIN and she agreed to meet with (KOVAIEV(5)

OTHER 1B,1C, 4

on 4/13/60,

furnished the following informa-

tion to SAS RICHARD W.

HILL and ARTHUR H. SEIDEL:

on 4/12/60, (KOVALEVStrived at

U)160 Claremont Ave, NYC,

residence,

at approximately

5:40

p.m.

He entered

the apartment, exchanged greetings with

and then

casually looked around the apartment. He asked

he was now living alone and

I said that he

left the apartment,

entered the subject's car, which was orked

in front of the building, and proceeded to ANNETTE EPSTEIN'S

residence.

OTHER 1B,1C

OTHER 1B, 1C, 4

10-29-97

5668540/152

stated that he had returned from the USSR

3/28/60K°VHe Had (visated Moscow, Due spent most of his(sf5)

25X

time in Minsk, since his mother was ill and the family wasC3'

CLASSIFIED BY

ON:

having difficulties during this period of illness.

He said

since he

had signed a three year contract with the UNfes) CS_

ECLASSI

1.12/7/97

that he would now remain in the Us for some _time,

2 Bureau

105-64470) (RM)

-New York

(105-27654)

(BORTS I. BUKATEY) 1

SCC29703764470-48

1-New York

(005-20553

1-New York

105-27649

WAN TA PEDORCE KO O

3 APR 22 1960

URIY A

• 1-New York

105-37990

TURNYS HARESKUKOVA

• l-New York

2705-39681)

(AMERICO SALERT

1-New

York

(134-4214)

(INV

copies made

1-New

York

434-4215)

(

INV

1-New York

105-27651)

AHS :ngb

743

1*32 APR 2 7 1960

for rev.a

150 3 14178-5

-PECRET

NW 45808 DocId: 32293685

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET.

EX 205-27651657

In response to KOVALEV's!

Edestions,

advised OTHER 1B,1C, 4

him that he was now carrying a full teaching program at Columbia

university, where he teaches three classes in the Japanese

language.

The thee classes have a total of approximately

twenty students..R

[SOVALEV Men askeal

about ANNETTE EPSTEIN

OTHER 1B,1C, 4

and was told that she had returned to NYC from California,

[KOVALEVI was also interested E)

returned to the USSR. S

•EX»

CAlOTHER 1B, 1C, 4

EPSTEIN'S

residence, 345 West 88th Sta, parked the car and proceeded

o her apartment After exchanging greetings, EPSTEIN LeI

he room and KOVALEV Slated himself in a wing-backed chair.

As he sat down he assumed a very erect position, since the

chair was very narrow, and said that he felt like a pope.

asked if he

should contess his sins and ask fo

absolution.

remark and

LOVALEV epparently did not understand the

ould grant tor.

ineness of an individual sent the a man

to come forward and make his confession.

produced

exhibited the medallion on one side of which was an inscription

to the effect that the possessor was a Catholic and in the

„event of an accident or death, a priest should be summoned.

EPSTEIN retumed to the room and KoVAtEy L1so told

her that he was a catiolta and made several similar remarks

to. her as he had to

They then left the apartment

and entered KOVALEV's Ear,

in which they proceeded south on

the West Side Highway. As they drove, they passed the ss

UNITED STATES and the QUEEN ELIZABETH, which were docked at

the piers.

OTHER 1B,1C, 4

SECRET

501-10101

NW 45808 DocId: 32293685 Page 3*

---

## Page 4

(SECRET 1A

NY 105-276517(5)

therefore, did not visit him when he left] giff and

While discussing places to have dinner, [OVALEv 5)

commented that he liked martinis and steaks and suggested

chat they visit O'Henry's Restaurant in Greenwich Village!

to which they all agreed.

During dinner,

OVALEV made inquiry concerning,

South American girl" he

id previously met at a party.

identified. her as ZENIA

RODRIQUES, who was at a party

apartment in June, 1950.

The subject.

was advised that she is

KOVALEV Commented that apparently

had been dancing very closely with this girl and FEDORCHENKOlS

had criticized him for this manner of behavior. KOVALEY 5)

superior and was a

easant" for voicing an objection to KOVALEV'sTbehavior. My

stupio(5)

ANNETTE EPSTEIN did not feel well during the course

while seating herself

that it appeared that

EPSTEIN became embarrassed,

but immediately told KOVAIEV That she had accidently brushed

against him.and it did not mèan anythings KOVAIEV@ecame

apologetic and went to great lengths to resolve the comment

he had made and establish a more congenial and friendly atmosphere

OTHER 1B, 1C, 4

and meet some of their friends.

imes during the evening.

agreed to have such a party

on 4/16/60:

KOVALEV Epproved of this idea and said he woul

determine if MISHUKOV and BUKATIY egula attena.

SECRET

N(2)

NW 45808 DocId: 32293685

Page 4'

---

## Page 5

SECRET S

(u)

NX: 105-276527651

should rorm.

SITe, RIMMA Could do the same outala that he noura

able to such an arrangement. a

Upon leaving O'Henry's

Restaurant, [KOVALEV Suggested

that they go somewhere and have some beer.

They went to the

KOVALEVis Care on Broadway near Columbia University. Enroute,

isked them to sing some American folk songs, which

they did, since he enjoyed them.

After arriving at the West End Cafe, they discussed

politics and KOVAIEV was interested in the American electorall S.

They. explained theoperation of conventions and the CS

electara1 system to KOVALEV, who stated "it is all very silly,(5

Isn't it"

OTHER 1B,1C, 4

then started to read KOVALEV's balm.

As he was doing

so he told (KOVALEV

Chat his palm rerlected that he was vers

interested in women,

upon which KOVALEV withdrew his hand an

said that he was not a woman chaser.?

They spent

Cafe and then KOVALEV rove them home. Enroute. tol

residence, KoVALEyeald that he would a ske to taKe L

Columbia University,

specify exactly what he would like to see at Columbia University.

at his residence at approximately

OTHER 1B, 1C, 4

HILI

LEONID KOVALEY a contactea

telephonically advised SA RICHARLoTher 1B,1C,‹

date. and had invitedl

Jand herself to have

dinner with him on 4/12/60.870

- 4

SECRET

J1!-i81°!

NW 45808 DocId: 32293685

Page 5

---

## Page 6

(SECRET EW)

NY. 105-27651 75)

on 4/14/60, EPSTEIN was interviewed by SAS ARTHUR

OTHER 1B, 1C, 4

to kid EPSTEIN about her relationship with

* FEDORCHENKO and intimated that he had been her lover.

Sis irritated EPSTEIN, who denies such a relationship, and

(S) KOVALEVI then asked her if ZENIA RODRIQUES vas still around.

attended a party atl

apartment in June, 1950 NY

letter to Bureau 2/17/60).

At this party, FEDORCHENKO hadS

critized (KOVALEVor.

no right to criticize

him re RODRIGUES,

"stupid peasant"

and had no authority over (KOVALEVJ(5)

they proceeded to O'Henry's Restaurant, 345 6tb

Ave., NYC, in Greenwich Village, and I

and (KOVALEVIS

steak dinners; EPSTEIN did not eat,

well, but had four cognacs.

ne nad seen YURI MISHUKOV and BORIS BUKATIY. IOVALEV then S

began to chide her, saying that EPSTEIN liked YURIand BORIS] §)

better than himself and asked her if she liked them better

than/FEDORCHENKO SEPSTEIN then stated that she thought

OTHER 1B, 1C, 4

The three then agreed that FOREMAN would furnish his apartment

for

and

a party

on Saturday night 4/16/60, and that EPSTEIN

would invite some of their friends.

EPSTEIN said that she had been going to the ladies -

room frequently at the restaurant and that upon coming back

to the tableand sitting, her leg had accidentally brushed

against /KOVALEV's.

KoVAL galled her attention to it and,

-

15

SECRET

NW 45808 DocId: 32293685 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

NY 105-27651 (5)

that she liked him.

and angry and blurted out to l

very apologetic and wanted to analyze what had happened in

order to show his good intentions.

and

took little part in the discussion while KOVALEV Sontinue

going. EPSTELI

He appeared very self-conscious and his protestation of friandship

seemed hollow.

He made jokes which neither _

• nor EPSTEIN

thought funny and seemed to be forcing his friendship on them.

He remarked several times that all Russian men are crude

peasants, but, in eriegt

are in the right placels must be excused because their hearts

He stated that he had become very Americanized in that

he now carried a St. Christopher medal, he has a Chevrolet and

dresses as do the Americans.

He also said that he was very

fond of martinis and steaks. He wants to learn all about

American popular music and has a reoord of FRANK SINATRI

and some others.

EPSTEIN stated that KOVALEV/Looks like

American except

that his hair is longer than the average American's

and he speaks with an accent although his English is good.

When KOVALEV

Teft the table EPSIEIN and

agreed that KOVALEV anted something from them, his

actions

were so false, but were unable to decide what

Even though a very strained atmosphere existed after

(KOVALEV'remark about EPSTEIN brushing against him, he suggested

they go some place to have beer. They then drove to the West

ind Bar, near Columbia University and enroute, LKOVALEY asked 5

which they di

asked them how (S3

OTHER 1B,1C, 4

discussion of US politics. (KOVALEV then said to (EPSTEIN) that(S)

SECREU

() 2)

NW 45808 DocId: 32293685 Page

7

---

## Page 8

(SECRET

NY 105-276517(5)

she was a history major and would like to see how much she

knew about Russian histary..

an amateur palmist, began

FOREMAN told him that he had a good heart

ladies! man.

saying that one to a nan see agay at that soire,

and TRIMMA

lessons.

EPSTEIN. had told KOVALEV that she was planning to s

enter the Fordham University Russian Institute in the falls

and, thererore,.was.

interested taling Reset In this

Russian] several times during the course of the evening and(s)

expressed surprise. that she did not speak 1t., She then relate

that KOVALEV and FEDORCHENKO nad taken her home from one of≤

the parties in 1958 and since they had been remarking about

exorbitant rents in America, she had taken them into her

mother's apartment,

which is spacious and rents for only $70

per month.

They met her mother, who was born in Russia,

speaks native Russian, ardiconversed with her briefly in

that language.

KOVALEV asked. EPSTEIN. what she was doing now and upon

leaningg that she

taught at the public school in the Bronx,

where the colored girl received the letter from NIKITA KHRUSHCHEV,

asked her if she was responsible for the girl's having written.

OTHER 1B, 1C, 4

OTHER 1B, 1C, 4

dropped

They left the west End Bar in KOVALEV car,

off at his apartment anc

apartment,

where she shook hands with KOVAlEVat the door.

EPSTEIN stated that she had

contacted AMERICO

SALEBE to

invite him to the party; he

accepted and is to bring

a

South American friend.

He told her that he had received a

-7-

OTHER 1B,1C, 4

(XU)

SECRET.

NW

45808 DocId: 32293685

Page

8

---

## Page 9

6.0

(SeCReRa

8(u)

NY- 105-276527(5)

requesting $100 so

hat he was unable to do this as SALEBE had been In fE said

hospital, after almost having gone blind.

EPSTEIN also learned

she stated that in her opinion both HARBER and SALEBE are 2)

homosexuals.

recalled that SALEBE, LKOVALEV, MISHUKOV and

VADIM (INU) Had attended a party given by a wealthy society

woman during the summer of 1958, which SALEBE had told her

She stated that SALEBE told her of severäl such

gatherings during the period September, 1958 - summer of

1959, but she could not recall the woman's name. However,

SALEBE told her on 4/13/60, that the woman had again con-

tacted him in order to arrange another such party. LIhis

woman planned to visit Russia, at one time, but never did so. 5)

EPSTEIN and

have volunteered to furnish

complete details concerning the 4/16/60, party to the NYO.

•Detailed information concerning this party will be furnished

to the Bureau. (0(U)

OTHER 1B,1C, 4

- 8

SECRET

NW

45808

DocId: 32293685

Page

---

