# docid-32301311

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/4/2015

AGENCY.:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10278-10146

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-339235-307

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/19/1968

4

SHF, BKG, RES, RCF, EMP, ASSOC, TRA, SDS, FINANCES,

TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

• RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under

the John

Issassination Records

Collection det of 1902

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NIl 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

V9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32301311

Page 1

106

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.8

UNITED STATES GO

«NMEN

Memorandum

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (100-339235)

MACK SAC, NEW YORK (100-42479) (E)

SUBJECT: SUSAN HEILIGMAN FRANK

IS-CH

(00:NY)

DATE:

SEP 19 1968

ALL INFORMATION CONCATNED

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SL0kCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (J (6)

JFK) 6/30/08

90 Day Progress Letter

(5)

Ryo

ReNYlet, 6/21/68.

4/25/94

Classi

DY

Residence and Employment

Dec

Subject continues to reside in Apartment 30

_110 christopher St. NYC, with her husband RICHARD

continues to claim

/ FRANK.

She

residence.

to be a free-lance writer operatang from her

Activities During Past 90 Days

NY 4047-S* has advised subject continues her close

association with JAMES and ANYLEE of the "China Dally News"

IRAYGOLLOBIN. ,.Y

and

N.X.

office of the

A physical surveillance conducted in the vicinity of the

"China Daily News"

on 7/7/68, the day of its

anniversary celebration, disclosed subject and her husband attended

the celebration.

6328-S and CG 5851-S after

they mentioned "C.L.

On 7/16/68, (CHARLE LOMAN) had suggested they contact.

her; the meeting

restaurant in the vicinity of her

residence as subject had stated her place was probably not safe.(

Informants felt subject's role is to support MAO-oriented

philosophy. She indicated she

was available for speeches and

would appear before both "good"

' "bad" people.

Subject

continually slurred the revisionists and frequently,made mention

of the cultural revolution..

100-332235-307

2-Bureau (RM)

I-New York

EY: mg

(3)

REG-34

*EX-105

17 SEP 20 1968

1968

cnin.tnt

NW 54464 DooId: 32301311 Page 2

NATUNT SECH

a NeR

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

## Page 3

IREN

NY 100-42479

?

her friends send warm regards.

on 8/22/68, subject contacted JAMES LEE and invited

him to her apartment

so she could inform him about the trip.

on 8/27/68, subject requested HAROLD GLASSER, when

overseas, to deliver a "small item" to SVEN (ph) for her.

While subject was in Europe, SVEN had apparently requested her

rhysical surveillance of subject on 8/28/68, disclose

She met HAROLDIGLASSER at the information both of the Empir

State Building, NYC, and proceeded to Longchamps Restaurant.

Subject continues to state she is a member of the SDS

Banking Information

A review of subject's checking account at the Chemical

BanBank New York Trust Company, Grove and West Fourth St., NYC,

did not disclose any financial

transaction inconsistant with her

income and standard of living.

Observation

Subject in discussing the arrest of STRONG, RITTENBURG;

et al with CG 63282 and CG 5851.

accounts from Hong Kong, howev co tended to disbelieve the

she also stated with so much

CIA and counter-revolutionary activity going on in China, it is

necessary to check and recheck and sometimes even friends have been

detained, indicating her dedication and loyalty to the Chinese

Communists. Ca

In view of her indication to CG sources she could

obtain the truth about the situation and remarks made by her to her

husbana, supra, it is unlikely subject's trip to Paris and London

was anything but a business trip.

Any communication with the

Chinese Communists is apparently made through London and / or

Paris.(a) M)

From her conversations with ROSENBAUM another purpose

of her trip was to obtain information about the riots which

occurred in Paris.

N.Y

Upon return from her trip, subject contacted JAMES

LEE and ROSE COE to inform them of her trip. It would appear

the results/of her trip concerned LEE and / or COE directly or they

are sufficiently Involved Rubject's activities to be a part or

- 3-

318-10108

NW 54464 DooId: 32301311 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 100-42479

Proposed Future Investigation

Buse no a and are are been in contact wien

Furthermore

Iindings concerning the American nationals in China. It is hoped

as sufficient relationship will be established enabling them to

obtain information re subject's activities.

Tegat, Ottawal has| malled an anonymous letter to

TANG Ming-Chao, reportedly head of political intelligence in

English speaking countries for the Chinese Communists, text of

which was set forth in NY airtel to Bu, 8/2/68, in attempt to

disrupt her activities while in London

Paris and to tarnish

her image with the Chinese. Communists

Any further action in the matter will be dependent upon

the results obtained from the above.

NYO 1s remaining alert for information furnished by

NY 4047-S*, which would reveal the identity of contacts of subject,

who could be developed as informants.

Should subject become more active in the SDS it is

felt that informants active in the organization could be targeted

against her.

All significant information has been furnished to the

Bureau and non-significant information recorded in memorandum

form for the NYO file.

- 4-

HH

54464

DocId: 32301311

Page 4

---

