# docid-32989636

## Page 1

File #:

602-116395-

Serial Scope:

585-EBF

1H 55144

DocId: 32989636

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

TIONAL FORM NO. EA

5010-106-03

MAY 10G2 EDITION

'GSA GEt!. REG NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO

ERNMENT

Memorandum

L INFORMATION CONTAINER

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DIRECTOR, FBI

84C, PHONES (105-2683)

DATE:

5/31/68

LEIT

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

INTERNAL SECURITY

_ DISRUPTION OF THE NEW LEFT

set it

ReBulot to ALbany, 5/20/68' copies to all attlees.

On the basis of developments to date, it is apparent

that New Left organizations and activities in the Phoenix

metropolitan area have received their inspiration and

leadership almost exclusively from the members of the faculty

in the Department of Philosophy at Arizona State University

(ASU); Chiefly AssIstant Protessor MORRIS J-STARSKY. The

most logical targets for potentiäl counterintelligence action

lucily

thorciere rotty chrious.

STARSKY in presently the subject of active invest-

gation in the selective Service category, as is DONALD W.

GHISCHEN, also an Assistant Professor of

Philosophy

Background information which is thus developed may prove

useful for counterintelligence purposes.

Bureau authority

is also being requested to initiate an active security

investigation of WILLIAM MONROE WINGFIELD, who is a Graduate

Assistant in the Department of Philosophy.

STARSKY has already received considerable publicity

lin Phoenix papers in connection with his anti-war and anti-

draft activities. It is understood also that Governor JACK

WILLIAMS is well aware of STARSKY's radical proclivities and

has privately expressed concern about him.

This suggests an

avenue of counterintelligence approach as well as that offered

by reliable and cooperative contacts in the news media.

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

TO TARGET OF INTEREST

+9001

3

-- Bureau

2 - Phoenix

29

+ 10-03. 407 100- 44969 8-38-

RPP/lkt

(5)

xyj4S

Doc1d-32989636

Page 2

---

## Page 3

or of.

"i.:

PX 105-2683

RPP/1kt

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

TO TARGET OF INTEREST

....

Counterintelligence

action

Tucson area

is

suggested

for the

as

follows:

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

TO TARGET Of INTEREST

-2-

HH 55144 DocId:32989636 Page 3

---

## Page 4

-=T+711114628954

PX 105-2683

RPP/Ikt

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

TO TARGET OF INTEREST

...

#, assage ride+s a 040253-20001

... 'ise.

I₩ 55144 DocId: 32989636 Page 4

---

## Page 5

; ONSONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GC

CONMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-449698)

DATE:

7/1/68

FROM

SAC, PHOENIX (105-2683) (P)

SUBJECT:

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

INTERNAL SECURITY

DISRUPTION OF THE NEW LEFT

#MORIG

AIT INFORMATION CONTAINE

F'ERTIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

RAT 12/77/00 BX SP-FALML

ReBulet to Albany, 5/10/68, copies to all offices;

and PX let to Bureau, 5/31/68.

The status of captioned program in the Phoenix

Division as of 7/1/68 may be summarized as follows:

1. Potential Counterintelligence Action

It was mentioned in Phoenix letter of 5/31/68 that

MORRIS ¿. STARSkY, as a public employee, is understood to

se of interest and concern to JACK WILLIAMS, Governor 0j

Arizona. There are now indications that as a result of

this interest, which is by no means a matter of public record

and is unlikely to become such,

the Board of Regents, which

exercises administrative control of the State universities,

may soon find cause to separate Professor STARSKY from the

public payroll. It is considered that he may have falsi-

fied attendance records or something of that nature.

STARSKY's

dismissal from the ASU faculty could be expected to disrupt

New Left organizations at Arizona State University and in

the Phoenix area generally.

In any event, Phoenix will explore means of assur-

ing that Mc. WILLIAMS is cognizant of the role which STARSKY

and others in the ASU Philosophy Department play in keeping

the New Left alive within the State of which he is Governor.

+10-449-98-35-4

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

TO TARGET OF INTEREST.

294-

2

Bureau (RM)

Phoenix

REC- 38

ST-120

125 JUL

MH 55144

4JUL 1 9 1968

DocId: 329896066 Page 5

1968

/sE(a)

• INT

---

## Page 6

PX 105-2683

PGT/gle

2. Pending Counterintelligence Action

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

TO TARGETS OL INTEREST

3. Tangible Pesults

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

TO TARGETS OF INTEREST

.....?

= sortin

HH 55144 DooId:32989636

Page 6

---

## Page 7

VIRAWAL FORM NO. 10

¡Y 1982 EDITION

PAFPMR (s CFR) 101-11.8

UNITED STATES GOV

‹MENT

Memoranaum

TO

FROM

: DIRECTOR, FBI (100-449698)

M.

OSAC, PHOENIX (105-2683) (P)

DATE:

10/1/68

SUBJECT: COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

INTERNAL SECURITY

DISRUPTION OF THE NEY LEFT

Remylet, 7/1/68.

1. Potential Counterintelligence Action

MORRIS J. STARSKY, by his actions, has continued

to spotlight himself as a target for counterintelligence

action.

He and his wife were both named as presidential

electors by and for the Socialist Workers Party when the

SWP in August, 1968, gained a place on the ballot in Ari-

zona.

In addition they have signed themselves as treasurer

and secretary respectively of the Arizona SWP:

STARSKY's status at Arizona State University may be affected

by the outcome of his pending trial on charges of disturb-

ing the peace.

He is alleged to have used violent, abusive

and obscene language against the Assistant Managing Director

of Gamnage Auditorium at ASU during memorial services for

MARTIN LUTHER KING last April.

Trial is now scheduled for

10/8/68 in Justice Court, Tempe, Arizona.

A recommendation for counterintelligence action

as to STARSKY will be submitted by separate letter.

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

TO TARGET

• SEINTEREST

(04D)

Bureau

(RM)

Phoenix

PGT/gle

•(4)

001 x3,:

REC- 12.

16?

100-44-9647385

17 OCT 4s

1968*--*

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNOLASSIFIEX

DA L2/2700 BX SPRALMITE

NOT: 41968

DocId: 3298343U Favings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

## Page 8

PX 105-2683

PGT/gle.

2.

Pending Counterintelligence Action

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

TO TARGET

OF INTEREST

3. Tangible Results

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

TO PARGET

OF INTEREST

2

NY,55141 DocId: 32989636

Page 8

---

## Page 9

LUPTIONAL I ORM NO. 11

Yn942191102

GSA FPMI* (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GO

RN

NT

Memorandum

TO

:

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-449698)

FROM

SAC, PHOENIX (105-2683) (P)

• SUBJECT: COINTELPRO - NEW LEFT

DATE:

#MORIG

ALL, INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 12/22/ca BY SP-2 ALK /H/G

10/8/68

Remylet, 10/1/68.

It has been mentioned previously to the Bureau

that MORRIS JOSEPH STARSKY as a public employee is known

to be of interest and concern to JACK WILLIAMS, Governor

of Arizona. It is the understanding of the Phoenix Office

that Governor WILLIAMS relies to a considerable extent

information which he receives from Lt. Colonel LLOYD H.

ROBERTSON (NA), Assistant Superintendent, Arizona Highway

Patrol.

5/01

As a general rule copies of reports or LHMs in

security type cases are not disseminated by Phoenix to the

AHP. It is recommended that the Bureau authorize Phoenix

to furnish ROBERTSON one copy each of the enclosed LHMS

captioned as follows:

1. '"SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY, STATE OF ARIZONA, "

dated 8/16/68 at Phoenix, Arizona.

2. "PEACE AND FREEDOM PARTY; NEW PARTY, STATE

OF ARIZONA," dated 9/10/68 at Phoenix.

3. "GISELA MANDEL," dated 10/8/68 at Phoenix.

These LIMs concern pertinent activities not only

Of MORRIS JOSEPH STARSKY but

also of other individuals con-

nected with ASU and wilth the

University of Arizona, both

"tax-supported institutions.

EX-102.

+46-449698-38-6

434

- Phoenix

PGT/gle

(4)

ENCLOSURE ATT! REGg

IS OCT ДО 1968

17H 55tJ

Buy U.S. Savings Ponds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

DocId: 32989636

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Phoenis,

Arizona

August, 16, 1968

#FMDRI6

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINID

FEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 11/21/0o 3Y SP-2 AM/FIE

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

STATE OF ARIZONA

On August 15, 1968, Wesley Bolin, Secretary of

State, state of Arizona, advised thai the Socialist Norers

farty

(S.?), having filed the nocessary petitions and other

documents required by Arizona statutes on August &, 1968,

has gained recognition as a now political party in the scate.

accordingly, si? will appear and be represented by and on

AR OIIICIAI

ballot at the primary election september 10,

1069, and at the general election November 5, 1958.

The five presidential electors named by and toi

the sie are:

Paul Ferdinand Luerow, Jr.

• 1866 West Sixth Street, Hesa, Arizona

Jelfrey Allen Ridenour

6620 East Wilshire Drive, Scottsdale, Arizon

Morris Joseph Starsky

, 8002 Last Fairnont Avenue, Scottsdale, Arizona

Ruth Pamela Starsky

8002 Bast Fairmont Avenue, Scottsdale, Arizona

William Monroe Wingfield

604 Roosovelt Street, Apt. E, Tempe. Arizona

-

:

+106-449688-38-6

MY 55141 DocId: 32989636 Page 10

---

## Page 11

#MORIG

ATI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 12/27/00 BY SP-ZALNTHAL

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

STATE OF ARIZONA

Arizona law requires that any new party's petition

for recognition be verified by the affidavits of ten quali-

fied electors of the state. Therofore, in addition to the

live presidential electors mentioned, the following five

persons also submitted affidavits:

Charles Briggs Ackert

3740 Ironwood Hills Drive, Tucson, Arizona

Thomas N. Bahti

3425 North Treat Avenue, Tucson, Arizona

Richard Gorby

2648 North Fairoaks Avenue, Tucson, Arizona

Edward George Lesko, 1224 Fast Lemon,

Apartment 140, Tempe, Arizona

Betsy Ann McDonald

3641 East Third Street, Tucson, Arizona

A lotter to Mr. Bolin accompanying the petitions

bore the heading "ARIZONA STATE COMMITTEE, SOCIALIST

WORKERS

PARTY." It also bore:

"ADDRESS REPLY TO:

'"William Monroe Yingfield

Arizonans for Halsteaa and Boutelle

₽. 0. Box 689

Tempe, Arizona 85281"

The letter closed with the following:

"Very truly yours,

"ARIZONA SOCIALIST WORKERS PARIY

"William Nonroe Wingfield,

Chairman.

2

HW 55144 DocId: 32989636

Page 11'

---

## Page 12

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

STATE OF ARIZONA

"Ruth Pamela Starsky,

Secretary.

"Morris Joseph Starsky,

Treasurer."

The letter was signed by each of the latter three

persons.

These three persons were also the only ones sign-

ing certifications attached to petitions.

Secretary of State Bolin related that William

Monroe Wingfield and one Anthony Spachtholz had initially

come to his office on May 27, 1968, and picked up the neces-

sary blank petitions forms and other information pertain-

ing to getting a new party on the ballot. He stated that

those two individuals were the persons who on August S,

1968, brought the completed petitions and other documents

to his office for liling.

Mr. Bolin explained that in Arizona a new political

party becomes eligible for recognition and a place on the

official ballot upon filing with the Secretary of State

petitions signed by a number of qualified electors equal

to not less than 2 per cent of the votes cast for the governor

at the last preceding general election in at least five

, countles.. The petitions filed by SWP contained signatures

of qualified electors as follows:

County

Santa Cruz

•Graham •

Greenlee

Apache

Mohave

Total

Signatures

70

105

89

87

84

435

Nr. Bolin pointed out that the SVP people had

obviously selected the five Arizona counties which in the

3

MW 55144 | DocId: 32989636 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

STATE OF ARIZONA

last procoding general election had cast the fewest number

ot total votes, thereby minimizing the work involved in

gaining petition signers.

It was evident from the petitions

that they had been circulated in the following communities

on the dates indicated:.

Nogales

Safford

Morenci

Clifton

St. Johns and

Springerville

Kingman

June 18, 1968

June 19, 1968

June 19, 1968

June 20, 1968

June 21, 1968

July 13, 1968

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI

and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not

to be aistributed outside your agenoy.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

HH 55144 DooIA:32989636

.. " sitt

Page 13

---

## Page 14

In Reply, Please Refer Do

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Phoenix, Arizona

September 10, 1968

DECLASSIFIED BYSP-FAEM HE

ON 12-27-00.

PEACE AND FREEDOM PARTY;

NEN PARTY

"STATE OF ARIZONA

The "Tucson Daily Citizen," a newspaper of general

circulation published in Tucson, Arizona, carried in its

genexal

Issue of August 12, 1968, a news item reading as follows:

"CARD-BURNER RUNS FOR VICE PRESIDENT

"Convicted draft-card burner David M.

Rehfleld is running for vice president of the

United States.

"But the 26-year-old University of Arizona

graduate student, now tree on $1,000 bond while

appealing two felony counts, may have difficulties

placing his name on the ballot in Arizona, accord-

ing to authorities.

"Petitions filed in Phoenix yesterday listed

dom Party ticket, Which is headed by the california

BLaCK Lanthers minister of iniOrmatiOn, Elaridge

Cleaver of Oakland, Calif.

"Asst. U. S. Atty. Jo Ann Diamos said today

there is no federal regulation which would block

CONFIDENNIAI

GROUR I

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING

EB-LASSIFICATION

:

HH 55144

DocId: 32989636 Page 14

100-44418! 1:

---

## Page 15

CONELDENTIAL

PEACE AND FREEDOM PARTY;

NEW PARTY

STATE OF ARIZONA

a convicted felon from running for national office.

State laws preventing felons from holding public

office probably will keep Refield out of the

"In addition, according to Miss Dianos, con-

stitutional age requirements probably would dis

allow his candidacy.

A vice president must be

at least 35 years old, she said.

"Rehfield was convicted May 9 in U. S. Digo:

trict Court of burning his draft card during a

Dec. 4 demonstration in front of City Hall. He

also was convicted of failing to have a draft

card in his possession, & second felony.

"Rehfield could not be reached today for

comment.

• "Still another political party, dubbed the

New Party, filed petitions in Phoenix yesterday

with Mrs.

Rose Mofford, assistant secretary of

state.

Its electors were listed as supporters

from lucson.

"They are David Yetman, Joseph L. Cowa,

Nancy Bolster Fales and Robin N. Marrill. Cowan,

a professor of philosophy at lA, said the party

will meet Sept. 4 in Chicago to pick its nominees

and, perhaps a

formal name.

the wishes of a large segment of the citizenry."

On August 15, 1968, Wesley Bolin, Secretary of

state,

state of Arizons, Phoenix, Arizons, advised that

CONFID

TIAL

HH 55144

DocId: 32989636

Page

•15

---

## Page 16

OONFIDENTIAL

PEACE AND FREEDOM PARTY;

NET PARTY

STATE OF ARIZONA

a group calling itself the Peace and Freedom Party (PFP)

and another group calling itself the New Party (NP), both

laceit a patient at the no seattoo or ease.

each will appear and be represented by and on an official

ballot in the primary election September 10, 1968, and 1n

the general election November 5, 1968.

The five presidential electors named by and 10r

the PFP are:

Ila Riggi, 2917 North Baxter Avenue, Tucson

Dwight T.

Hoxie, 915 East 7th Street, Tucson

Emmett Calvin

Brown, 633 Calle Rita, Tucson

2022 East 8th Street, Tucson

Dorothy lee

saberts i mary, 3751 Just helen Street, Tucson

The five presidential electors

the N° are:

named by and for

David Yetran,

450 East Alturas, Tucson

Josepn L. Cowán, 2030 Calle Alta Vista, Tucson

William G. Carton, 1141 East Adams, Tucson

Nancy Bolster Fales, 905 East Adams Street, Tucson

Robin N. Merrell:: 6310 East Brian Kent, Tucson

Mrs. Rose Mofford, Assistant Secretary of State,'

State of Arizona, recalled on August 22, 1968, that the

PFP documents as well as those of the NP were brought to

"bearded and filthy" males.

the office for offielal filing on August 9 Tucson by three

All were from

of these people identified themselves; they were Mitchel

Axler and Joe Parrü.

The third individual was not identi-

fied.

They arrived at the Secretary of State's office in

the

Capitol Building in Phoenix the afternoon of August 9,

1968.

They had with them the necessary petitions from Apache,

Graham, Greenlee and Santa Cruz counties.

It was necessary

for then to walt around for the arrival of the signed PFP

3

NW 55141 DocId: 32989636

CONFID

NTIAL

Page 16:

---

## Page 17

PEACE AND FREEDOM PARTY;

NEY PARTY

STATE OF ARIZONA

and NP petitions from Mohave county.

This Mohave county

material was finally brought in by Betsy McDonald, who had

driven directly to the capitol from Kingman, Arizona, with

it.

McDonald and her "bearded and filthy" friends then

turned all the documents over to Mrs. Mofford who recorded

them as being received at 5 p.. on August 9, 1968.

Mrs. Mofford advised that Betsy McDonald was also

from Tucson, Arizona, and that her husband is understood

""'

to be a professor there at the University of Arizona (UA).

It appeared to Mrs. Mofford that the two political groups,

the PFP and the NP, were closely associated and closely

coordinated their activities.

The folder pertaining to

the PFP bore the notation that receipt was to be sent to

Tucson 85719."

notation on the NP folder was

"Mitch Axlex, 1028 E. 6th.St''getsy McDonald, 3461 Fast

A comparable

3rd St., Tucson 85716."

Mrs. Mofford explained that in Arizona a new po-

litical party becomes eligible for recognition and

a place

on the official ballot upon filing with the Secretary of

State petitions signed by a number of qualified electors

equal to not less than two per cent of the votes cast for

governor at the last preceding general election in at least

five counties.

The petitions filed by PFP contained sig

natures of qualified voterg as follows:

County

Apache

Graham

Greenlee

Mohave

Santa.Cruz

Signatures

76

86

690

72

58

• TOTAL

361

JUNPZORENTIAL

IW 55144 DocId: 32989636

: Edie

17!

---

## Page 18

PEACE AND FREEDOM PARTY;

NEY PARTY

STATE OF ARIZONA

The petitions filed by the NP contained signatures

of qualified electors as LOllOWS:

county

-

Apache

Greenlee

Santa Cruz

Graham

Hohave

Signatures

73

65

86

72

TOTAL

367

Secretary of State Bolin on September 5, 1968,

pointed out that the PFP and the NP people had obviously

selected the five least populated Arizona counties in which

to circulate their petitions, thereby minimizing the work

involved in gaining the needed signatures.

It was also

evident from the petitions that those of the PFP and the

NP had been circulated simultaneously in the following

communities

on the dates indicated:

Nogales

July 23, 1968

Safford

July 25, 1968

Morenci and Clifton

July 30, 1968

McNary and Springerville August 4, 1968

Bager

August 4

and 5, 1968

St. Johns

Kingman

August

and 9, 1968-

It appeared too that most persons signing the for

PFP in any given community also signed the N° petitions.

Michael Brewer, Nancy B. Fales, Betsy Ann McDonald, Heather

Mosa, Esther Ellen Nix and Armando Joseph Parra all

executed

certifications attached to petitions of both the PFP and

the NP.

McDonald, and Mosz functioned in this

manner with

rospect to Mohave County; McDonald, Fales and Brewer in

Graham County; McDonald,

mosz and farra in Apache county;

McDonald, Fales, Nix and Parra in Santa Cruz County;

ADonald,

Fales

and Nix in Greenlee County

5

1H '55144

Docid: 32989636,

Page 18'

---

## Page 19

COMP SEATSAG

PEACE AND FREEDOM PARTY;

NEY PARTY

STATE OF ARIZONA

The PFP Lolder made avallable by Mr. Bolin on

September 5, 1968, also contained i letter of certification

to the effect that Eldridge Cleaver has been nominated for

President of the United states and lavid l. Rehfild for

The letter indicated

the above action was taken in the regular Arizona convention

of the PFP held in lucson,

Arizona, on August 6, 1968; the

letter dated August 7, 1968, bore the return address of

PEP campaign headquarters, 1028 East Sixth street, Tucson.:

It was signed by Mitchel Axler, chairman of the convention.

A comparable document in the NP folder states

that the convention of the NP was to be held in Chicago,

Illinois, on or about september 3, 1968, when candidates

of the NP for the offices of President and Vice President

of the

• United States of America would be chosen.

to hir. Bolin, dated 'August 2, 1968, bore no return. address.

It was signed by Betsy Ann McDonald (Urs. James bo), Chairman,

Arizona Committee for & New Party..

6

551÷4

DodId: 32989636

'Page 19

---

## Page 20

PEACE AND FREEDOM PARTY;

NEY PARTY

STATE OF ARIZONA

CHARACTERIZATION OF INDIVIDUALS

The following individuals who were mentioned in

this memorandum may be characterized as follows:

MITCHEL AXLER

The "Arizona Daily Wildcat," student newspaper at

the UA, published in its edition of May 7, 1968, an article

which identified Mitchel Axler as co-chairman of a newly

formed campus draft opposition committee. He was promoting

a "Vietnam commencement" to "honor and support those uni-

versity students who are avoiding the draft."

A "Peace and Freedom Associations" newsletter

dated 5 July 1968 related that on 12 June 1968 there was

a re-organizational meeting "attended by 50 people who were

representative of all the peace activities of Tucson."

Mitchel Axler was elected chairman; Esther Nix. treasurer;

and Betsy McDonald secretary.

PX. T-I (August 2, 1968)

EMMETT CALVIN BROWN

Emmett Calvin Brown joined the Communist Party

(CP) in Cincinnati, Ohio, in 1946.

PX T-2 (1946)

ALBERTA DANNELLS

Alberta Dannells has been elected an officer of

the Tucson Peace Center and continues to be active in anti-

drait and anti-Vietnam war activities at Tucson, Arizona.

PE T-1 (various dates)

•CONFIDENTIAL

HW 55144: DocIA: 32989636. Date "20 •

---

## Page 21

PEACE AND FREEDOM PARTY;

NEY PARTY

STATE OF ARIZONA

DWIGHT T. HOXIE

As of November 10, 1966, Walter Sheasby, an original

staff member of the Students for a Denocratic Society (SDS)

at San Francisco, California, had a notebook listing "People

in Tucson, Arizona."

The name inight Hoxie was among those

so listed.

PX T-3 (November 10, 1965)

A characterization of the SDS is contained in the

appendix hereto.

BETSY ANN MC DONALD

Betsy Ann McDonald has been a conspicuous leader

in anti-draft and anti-Vietnam var activities at Tucson,

Arizona, at least since 1966.

PX T-1 (various dates)

JAMES B. MC DONALD

A bulletin put out by the Tucson Peace Center and

received through the mail February 7, 1968, advertised the

consultant to the Tucson Peace Center."

PX T-1 (February 12, 1968)

ESTHER NIX

In 1939 Esther Nix stated that her CP name was

Esther Norris and that she joined the Midcity section of

the CP at Chicago, IllInois, In June, 1939.

IX T-* (October 11, 1916)

CONFID

NIAL

HH 55144 DocId: 32989636

• Page . 21

---

## Page 22

PEACE AND FREEDOM PARTY;

NEVY PARTY

STATE OF ARIZONA

A newsletter of the Peace and Freedom Association&,

Tucson, mailed out July 5, 1968, related that at a re-

organizational meeting of the group held June 12, 1968,

Kitchel Axler was elected chairman, Esther Nix treasurer,

and Betsy McDonald secretary.

PX T-I (August 2, 1968)

This document contains neither recommendationg

nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI

,and is loaned to your agency; lt and its contents are not.

to be distributed outside your agency.

-?:

gi

CONFIDEAT

HH 55144 DocId: 32989636

---

## Page 23

MAI:

CONPZSENITAL

APPENDIX

STUDENTS FOR A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY

The Students for a Democratic Society (SDS),

as it is known today, came into being at a founding con-

vention held at Port Huron, Michigan, In June, 1962. The

SDS is an association of young people on the left and has

a current program of protesting the draft, promoting a

campaign for youth to develop a conscientious objector

status, denouncing United States Intervention In the war

In Vietnam and to "radically transform" the university

community, and provide for its complete control by students.

Gus Hall, General Secretary, Communist Party,

USA, when interviewed by a representative of United Press

International in San Francisco, California, on May 14,

1965, described the SDS as a part of the "responsible

left"

which the Party has "going for us." At the June, 1965,

• SDS National Convention, an anticommunist proviso was re-

moved from the SDS constitution.

In the October 7, 1966,

issue of "New Left Notes," the official publication of SDS,

an SDS spokesman stated that there are some communists in'

SDS and they are welcome.

The national headquarters of this organization,

as of April 18, 1967, was located in Room 206, 1608 Hest

Madison Street, Chicago, Ill1n01s.

10%

COW IRITA

14 55144 D001d:32989636

23

---

## Page 24

++0-3231(1708-11-80-01)

In Reply, Plore Refer ho

•Dile Na.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

Phoenix, Arizona

September 10, 1968

title

PEACE AND FREEDOM PARTY;

NEW PARTY

STATE OF ARIZONA

Character

Reference

Memorandum dated at Phoenix,

Arizona, September 10, 1968,

captioned as above.

All sources (except any listed below) whose Identities

are concealed In referenced communication have furnished reliable

intornation in the past.

Thia document contains noither recommondations nor conclusione of the FBI.

of the FBI and le loaned to your agendy, it and ita contenta are not lo be distributed ou proderty

your aganey..

HH 55144 DocId: 32989636' Pagé 24

---

## Page 25

In Reply, Please Refer 80

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Phoenix, Arizona

October

8, 1968

CONZTOENTIAL

#MORIE

CLASSIFIED BY SPE ALM HE

12/72/90

GISELA MANDEL

"The Militant" is a weekly newspaper of the Socialist

Workers Party.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to

Executive Order 10450.

"The Militant" in its issue of September 6, 1968,

published a photograph of Gisela Mandel and an article read-

ing as follows:

"SPEAKING TOUR ORGANIZED FOR EUROPEAN SOCIALIST

"The national office of the Young Socialist

Alliance announced Aug. 27 that Gisela Mandel, a

student active in the formation of the German

Socialist Students Federation (SDS) and a friend

of Rudi Dutschke's would tour the U. S. and Canada

this fall under the auspices of the YSA and in

Canada of the Young Socialists-Ligue des Jeunes

Socialistes.

"Gisela Mandel will be speaking at more than

28 cities in the U. S. and Canada during her two

month stay in September and October. She will

CONFIDEIIAL

•EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOHNIGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

N# 55144 DocId: 32989636

Page 25

+60 -449-698-38-6

te 1446-19-4854

---

## Page 26

CONFTDANTAL

GISELA MANDEL

speak on the European Student Movement, East and

West, a subject that she has followed closely

during recent years.

In addition to her exper-

she knows many of the

in Europe, and has participated in many of the

demonstrations and conferences that have marked

the rising tide of radicalism among European

youth.

She was an eyewitness to the famous battle

of the barricades between the Sorbonne students

and police in Paris on the night of May 10-11 and

wrote a stirring account of it which has been

printed throughout the world.

"Gisela Mandel has an M. A. degree in philo

sophy and sociology from Hamburg University in

Germany.

She has visited Cuba twice,

lectured

or. Cuba at four lest German universities; and

written an introduction to the German edition

of Paul Sweezy and Leo Huberman's Anatomy of a

Revolution."

She has conducted sociological

studies in India and has written extensively on

that country."

Characterizations of the SDS and YSA are contained

in the appendix hereto.

'On September 28, 1968, Special Agents of the FBI

observed that Gisela Mandel arrived at Phoenix, Arizona,

at 10:l1 a.m. aboard American Airlines flight 163.

She was.

met at Sky

Harbor Municipal Airport by Morris Joseph Starsky

and his wife, Ruth Pamela Starsky.

Mandel and Mrs. Starsky remained at the airport

terminal building for some time awaiting delivery of the .

subject's luggage.

At 10:40 a.m. they finally gave up on

the luggage and joined Morris Starsky who was waiding in

his automobile.

The three of them drove to St. Agnes® Roman

Catholic Church, 1954 North 24th Street.

They entered and

remained in the church from approximately 10:50 a.n. until

2

¿ONFIDENTIAL

HH 55144 DocId:32989636 Page 26

---

## Page 27

.. e

GISELA MANDEL

11:20 a.m.

They then proceeded in Starsky's automobile

to the Woman's Club of Phoenix,

305 West Earll Drive, which

place they entered at 11:55 a.m.

Later, shortly before 2 p.m. on September 28, 1968,

Mandel and the two Starskys were observed leaving the Starsky

residence at 8029 East Granada Road, Scottsdale, Arizona,

in Starsky's automobile.

At about 12 noon on September 28

• 1ybo, an uniden-

tified individual connected with the Woman's Club of Phoenix

advised that a wedding reception was taking place there at

that time. He did not have the name of the wedding couple

but knew the bride's parents to be named Gower.

Confidential informant PX T-1 advised on Septem-

ber 28, 1968, that at St. Agnes' Church that morning, a

parishioner named Cathy Gower had been married to David

Cypher.

He added that records of the Arizona State Univer-

sity (ASU), Tempe, Arizona, reflect that David Marion Cypher

was a freshman in

the Liberal Arts College there during the

1967-68 school year. His home address

was listed as 4229

North Ninth Avenue, Phoenix, Arizona.

In connection with another investigation, confi

dential informant PX T-2 on July 26, 1968, furnished infor-

mation regarding a meeting

of the National Executive

Committee of the YSA which had occurred in New York City

on June 24, 1968.. At that time a motion was made and carried

to accept applications for membership at large from three

individuals, one of whom was "David C. Phoenix, Arizona."'

Another was

"Pamela S., Scottsdale, Arizona."

T-I pointed out that Morris Joseph Starsky, Assis-

tantProfessor of Philosophy at ASU, has for the past two .or

three years been the faculty member most prominently identi-

fied with antidraft and anti-Vietnam war activities on that

campus

and in the Phoenix area generally.

• 3

55144 DocId: 32989636 Pave 27

---

## Page 28

GISELA MANDEL

Records of the Secretary of State, State of Arizona,

reveal that Morris J. Starsky is one of five presidential

electors named by and for the

SWP. This was in connection

with the filing on August 8, 1968, of the necessary documents

required by law in placing a new political party on the ballot.

Starsky also signed himself as treasurer of the Arizona SWP.

On September 28, 1968, T-I advised that he knew of

no meetings or other activities

being held at ASU that week-

end which Gisela Mandel might logically be expected to address.

or attend.

This source

on September 30, 1968, stated that

neither Mandel nor Starsky was known to

have been on campus

September. 28, 1968. Subsequently, on October 4, 1968, T-1

advised that

after

viewing David Marion Cypher, presently

a sophomore at ASU, he recognized him as having been an active

participant in one antiwar event which the ASU Committee

to End the War in Vietnam (CEWV) had held during the 1967-68

school year. He added that Morris J. Starsky occupies the

position of faculty adviser to the CEWV.

Confidential informant PX T-3 advised on Septem-

ber 28, '1968, that Gisela Mandel indicated that her address

while in

the Phoenix area would be 8029 East Granada Road,

Scottsdale. He added that she was holding space on Western

Airlines

Flight 606 scheduled to depart Phoenix for Los Angeles,

California, at 12:30 p.M., September 29, 1968. On September 29,

1968,

I-3 advised that Mandel had left Phoenix as scheduled

at 12:30 p.m. that date via Western Airlines Flight 606 de

parting for Los Angeles.

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI

and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not

to be distributed outside your agency.

-- -

4

JONFIDENTiAL

IN 55144 DocId: 32989636

Page 28

---

## Page 29

APPENDIX

STUDENTS FOR A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY

The Students for a Democratic Party (SDS), as

is is known today, came into being at a founding convention

held at fort Huron, Michigan, in June: 1962.

The SDs is

an association of young people on the left and has a current

program of protesting. the draft, promoting a campaign tor

youth to develop a conscientious objector status, denouncing

United States intervention in the war in Vietnam, and to

"radically transform" the university connunity, and provide

for its complete control by students.

Gus Hall, General Secretary, Communist Party,

USA, when interviewed by & representative of United Press

International in San Francisco, California, on May 14, 1965,

described the SDS as a part of the

"responsible left"

which

the Party has

"going for us." At the June, 1965, SDS Na-

tional Convention, an anticommunist proviso was removed

from the SDS constitution.

In the October 7, 1966, issue

of "New Left Notes," the official publication of SDS, an

SDS spokesman stated that there are some communists in SDS

and they are welcome...

The national beadquarters of this organization

as of July 24, 1968, was located in Room 206, 1608 West

madison street, Chicago, illinois.

CONPAERTAL

NN 55144 DooId: 32989636

Page

29

---

## Page 30

CONSORTAL

APPENDIX

YOUNG SOCIALIST ALLIANCE

The May, 1960, issue of the "Young Socialist" (YS),

page 1, column 3, disclosed that during April 15-17, 1960,

a national organization entitled "The Young Socialist Alliance"

(YSA) was established at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

This

issue stated that this organization was formed by the nation

wide supporter clubs of the publication YS.

The above issue, page 6, set forth the Founding

Declaration of the YSA.

This declaration stated that the

YSA recognizes the Socialist Workers Party (SVP) as the

only existing political leadership on class struggle prin-

ciples, and that the supporters of the YS have come into

basic political solidarity with the SWP on the principles

of revolutionary socialisn.

On March 10, 1967, a source advised that the YSA

was formed during 1957, by youth of various left socialist

tendencies, particularly members and followers of the SWP.

• The source

further advised that the YSA has recently become

more open about admitting that it is the youth group of the

SWP and that an SWP representative has publicly stated that

the YSA is the SHP's youth group.

The National Headquarters of the YSA are located

in Room 532-536, 41 Union Square West, New York City.

On October 31, 1967, & second source advised that

at the 22nd National Convention of the

SWp held in New York

City from October. 26 to 29, 1967, it was stated that the

YSA remained as the main recruiting ground for new SWP members.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to

Executive Order 10450.

6*

i/

CONFIDONTEA

1H 55144 DocId: 32989636

Page 30

---

## Page 31

+40-823 (1704-11-29-61)

In Reply, Ploase Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Phoenix,

Arizona

October 8, 1968

TItle

GISELA MANDEL

Character

Reference

Memorandum dated October 8,

1968, at Phoenix, Arizona,

captioned as above.

All sources (except any listed below) whose Identities

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

information in the past.

This document contains nolther recommendations nor conclusiong of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBl and is loaned to your agency; il and lla contente aro not lo bo distributod outside

your agency.

HH 55144

DocId: 32989636

Page 31

---

## Page 32

5010-100

MAY IPOZ IDITION

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Mr. #. Co Sullivan

FROM : C. D. Brennan.

SL'BJECT:

COINTELPRO - NEW LEFT

DATE:

10/24/68

AJIT INFORMATION COME 16

HERSIN IS UNGLASSIFISD

DATE 12/22/00BX SA 2ALM/F

Bishop -

Casper -

Callalian -

Cont so -

Tell -

Gole

Rosen -

sullivan - is

Tove! -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy —

Phoenix requested authority to furnish copies of

three letterhead memoranda regarding security-type cases to

Arizona Highway Patrol (AHP) as a counterintelligence measure.

against the New Left. We do not agree.

Kwt0

Two of the letterhead memoranda concern the

efforts

of the Socialist Workers Party (SHP) and the Peace and Freedom

Party (PFP) to appear on the Arizona Ballot in the coming

elections. They contain names of SWP and PFP electors, some of

whom are employed by state universities.

The Governor of

Arizona has expressed an

interest in these individuals.

The

third memorandum concerns Gisela Mandel, a Belgian Trotskyite

Who appeared in Phoenix while on national speaking tour under

the auspices of the Young Socialist Alliance.

While in Phoenix,

she was escorted by one of the individuals in whom the Arizona

Governor has expressed an interest.

As a counterintelligence

proposal, Phoenix requested authority to furnish copies of the

above memoranda to its contact in the AHp who would in turn make

• them available to the arizona Governor.

Most of the information

contained in these memoranda was obtained from the Arizona

"Secretary of State or from newspapers.

One memorandum indicates

a Bureau surveillance and contains information from three Bureau

informants.

Two of the memoranda concern legitimate political

activities of the SYP and the PFP and the Bureau cannot put

itself

in a position to be accused of interfering in these

activities.

For these reasons, it is felt the memoranda should

not be furnished the AHP.

Attached is a letter to Phoenix®

denying

authority to furnish copies of memoranda to the AHP

but authorizing them to orally furnish the AHP the information

obtained from the Arizona

Secretary of State and from appro-

priate newspaper articles.

RECOMMENDATION:

#: 100-449-698-51

That the attached letter

to Phöenix be sent.

•Enclosure"ut

108

100-449698

Ires

1

C. D. DeLoach

1

Mr.

W. C. Sullivan

1

Mr.

C. D. Brennan

5g Not =

19.40

A. Grubert

JudI

• HAG:bkb : 1km

HH 55144

DooId: 32989636

Page 32

---

## Page 33

59

MAILED 4.

COMM-FBI

5.0p

He lett

6

HH

55144

IL. INFORMATION CONTAINE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIF LET

SAC, Phoenix (105-2683)

DATE12 27/00BY SP-ZALMILTE

10/25/68

REG- 126

Director, FBI (700 419698) -

s: 101 160-444698-38-6

1 - Mr. C. D. DeLoach

1 - Mr.

W. C. Sullivan

1 - Mr. C. D. Brennan

COINTELPRO - NEW LEFT

1 - Mr. H. A. Grubert

Reurlet 10/8/68.

Authority denied to furnish copies of letterhead

memoranda enclosed with relet to Colonel Robertson of the

Arizona Highway Patrol (AHP).

Generally speaking, it is not good policy to furnish

letterhead memoranda in security-type cases to local law

enforcement officers especially when they contain information

from confidential Bureau informants.

A review of the letterhead memoranda in question

reveals that most of the information contained therein was

obtained from the Arizona Secretary of State or from newspapers.

You are authorized to orally furnish Colonel Robertson

the information obtained from the Arizona Secretary of State

and from appropriate newspaper articles.

It is pointed out that some of the material contained

In

the letterhead memoranda concerns the efforts of the

Socialist Workers Party (SW) and the Peace and Freedon Party

(PFP) to appear on the Arizona ballot in the coming elections.

The Bureau

intend the estimate a vettes ace patie

even the SWP and the PFP.

This must be borne in mind during

any contact with local authorities.

You must assure that the Bureau is not revealed as

the source and that no embarrassment to the Bureau will result.

(7)

NOTE:

es

•See memorandum C. D.

ennan to Mr. W. C: Sullivan,

captioned as above, dated 10/24/68, prepared by HAG:bkb: 1km.

DocId: 329

175

IE.LETYPE UNIT L

36

Page 33

---

## Page 34

AT 1562 EDITION

AFPHR (41 CFR) 101-11.8

NITED STATES GOV-ONMENT

Memoranaum

TO

DIRICTOR, FBI (100-449698)

DATE:

3/31/70

FROM

SAC, PHOENT

(105-2683) (P)

SUBJECT: COINTELPRO - NEW. LEFT

Re Phoenix let to Bureau, 1/2/70.

I. POTENTIAL COUNTERINTELLIGENCE

#mOR /6

ALL INTORMATION CONTAINED

TREIN IS UNCLASSIFLEI

D2T812/22/00 BYSPZAMLZTE

ACTION

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

TO TARGET OF INTEREST

that

A situation is also developing in the Phoenix area

appears to hold some potential under this program.

MORRIS

Bureau

(Ri

Phoenix

WRB: gjk

(4)

TE06A

100-449-698-381-13

REC-GL

1B APR 2 1970

SECTION

RG

L: A

F26

1970

5010-108

Buy W.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

Н9 35141 D00I0:32989636 Page 34

---

## Page 35

PX 105-2683

WRB: gjk

J. STARSKY, an assistant professor at Arizona

State University

based located in suburban Phoenix, who is an Si subject

on SWP membership, has been charged by the ASU

Administration with unprofessional conduct and several other

charges for a person in his position. He is presently the

subject of a hearing before the ASU Faculty. Committee on

Academic Freedom and Tenure.

The New Left Movement on the

ASU campus is taking a great deal of interest in STARKY's

plight.

The Phoenix Office is able to cover the campus

AND

POSITION

and an established reliable

source. The efforts of ASU to take action against STARSKY

will be closely followed by Phoenix through source and this

situation will be evaluated as to any possible counterintelligence

action.

II. PENDING COUNTER INTELLIGENCE ACTION

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

TOTARGET

OF INTEREST

III. TANGIBLE RESULTS

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

•TO TARGET OF INTEREST

-2=

- ..

... i

HH 55144 DooId:32989636 Page 35

---

## Page 36

FD-36 @per: 5-22-615

#MARIG

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINAD,

HEREIN IS UPCLASSIIAX

FBI

Date:

4/7/70

Transmit the foliowing in

(Type in plaintext or code)

"Via

• AIRTEL

(Priority)

IRICA---

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-449698)

FROM :

SAC, PHOENIX (105-2683)

(P)

SUBJECT:

COINTELPRO - NEW LEFT

Re Phoenix lets, 1/6/69 and 3/31/70.

Enclosed.herewith for the consideration of the

Bureau are six copies of an anonymous letter being suggested

for mailing to five faculty members at Arizona State University

(ASU) hearing charges against Professor MORRIS J. STARSKY, a

Security Index subject in the Phoenix Division.

PHil dies

'-?:

Referenced Phoenix letters commented on the

professional problems of MORRIS J. STARSKY, Assistant Professor

of Philosophy at Arizona State University,

Tempe, Arizona and

on the possibility of utilizing counterintelligence action concern-

ing STARSKY.

The Phoenix Office by letter and LIM dated 4/1/70,

bbought the

security investigation of STARSKY up to date.

Freedom and Tenure

-charges made against STARSKY and recurring news reports have

stressed that the Arizona State Legislature and the Arizona

Board of Regents- both are anxious that STARSKY not be retained

on the faculty at ASU.

There has: been some faculty and studenty

support developed for STARSKY on the ASU campus.

He_is the

faculty advisor

,for the Young Socialist Alliance (YSA)

and the

- Bureau

(RAI)

(Enc. 6)

2 - 100-450364 Morris J. Starsky)

(1 - 100-456886

David J. Murphy)

REC-T7

7 - Phoenix (105-2683)

(2 - 100-6444 Morris J. Starsky)

(1 - 100-6851 David J.

Murphy)

191-449699-38-

(1

100-6550 Ruth Pamela Starsky)

(ї

-100-6684} James Rowland)

WRB : 53k

1970

(12)

ENCLOSIN

4

Approved:

"ENCLOSURE ATTACHED*

RESTARGE

SECTION

Sent

HH 55144 DooId: 32989636

Special Agent in Charge

Page 36

J. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1968 0 - 346-090 (11)

---

## Page 37

PX 105-2683

WRB : gjk

Student Mobilization Committee to End the War

in Vietnam (SMC)

and local sources believe that he is the catalyst of meaningful

New Left protests on the ASU campus and in the Greater Phoenix

area.

DAVID J. MURPHY, a graduate student at ASU and a

teaching assistant in the

English Department, has been one of

STARSKY's campus followers.

A statement in the form of a press

release circulated locally in February, 1970 and quoted MURPHY

as stating he was chairman of the SMC at ASU and a member of the

YSA since July, 1969, when he "became convinced that the social

problems with

which •I was concerned could not be solved without

a socialist revolution."

SOURCE AND POSITION

Phoenix

Police Department (PD), advised on 4/6/70, that he had learned

that during the course uf

a meeting uf the SiC on the Asu

campus on 4/2/70, a comment was made that MURPHY had attempted

suicide.

The records of the Tempe PD reveal that a complaint

was filed with that department by DAVID JAMES MURPHY, Apartment

#8, 122 South Ash, Tempe, at 3:45

A. M., 4/5/70. The complaint

charged "Disturbing the Peace" and "Threat"

" against MORRIS J.

STARSKY and his spouse, PANELA STARSKY, 8029 East Granada,

Scottsdäle,

, JAMES TAYLOR ROWLAND, 1010 East Lemon, Tempe

and MICHAEL HOWARD, 311 West McDowell, Phoenix.

The police

report reveals that MURPHY had contacted the PD and alleged that

he had retained in his apartment a box of YSA literature belonging.

to MORRIS STARSKY because he was owed approximately $70.00 by

STARSKY for unpaid telephone bills.

On 4/1/70, MURPHY said he

was convalescing at the Baptist Hospital, Scottsdale, and

STARSKY entered his

apartment with the assistance

of

lady and removed the literature.

"en.

the land-

on 4/4/70, MURPHY picked up a similar box of literature

at ISA Headquarters, 1010 East Lemon,

Tempe, which is also the

residence of ROWLAND. MURPHY Claimed that he had free access

to the YSA Headquarters.

-2-

HH 55144 Do0Id:32989636 Page 37

---

## Page 38

PX 105-2683

WRB: gjk

The police report continued that

in t

approximately

1:55 A.M., 4/5/70, MURPHY was awakened at his apartment.

He

recognized

the voice of Mrs. PAMELA STARSKY and HOWARD and opened

Both Ars. STARSKY and HOWARD entered the apartment

accompanied by ROWLAND. MURPHY said that he sat down and both

HOWARD and ROWLAND related that they wanted the material returned

to them which they claimed was worth $175.00. MURPHY said that

he asked for the money which was owed to him.

These three individual

were very loud and shouted at MURPHY.

In a short time MORRIS

STARSKY entered the apartment and told MURPHY, "It's very

simple, DAVID,

you either give us the stuff or these two guys

work you over."

MURPHY said he replied,

"Do you want that,

MORRIS?"

STARSKY replied, "No, not what I want but that's

the way it has to be."

Then he left the

apartment. MURPHY told

the police officers that he was scared and intimidated by MORRIS

STARSKY and the others due to their loud and threatening behaviour

and by the way Mrs. STARSKY yelled at him.

He said

that he

released to then the ySA litarature and they left the araa.

He told the police that he wished to sign complaints against the

above four individuals on Disturbing the Peace.

At 5:00 P.M. on 4/5/70,

the Tempe PD received a call

from MURPHY stating that he wished no further action by the

police regarding his complaint.

He said he had discussed the

matter with the persons involved and an agreement was reached and

no further action was desired.

SOURCE

Phoenix PD, advised

that he had been able to determine through a confidential source

that MURPhY had been admitted to the Baptist hospital, scottsdale,

on 3/31/70 with a diagnosis of "Overdose."

He was released from

this hospital on 4/3/70.

SOURCE

advised that the episode at MURPHY's

apartment has become known to the "New Left" community on the

ASU campus.

RICHARD DILLON, who was an SDS leader at ASU in

1968-1969 and a supporter of STARSKY, was quoted as making the

statement that STARSKY should be fired because of this incident.

-3-

HH 55144 DooId:32989636

Page 38

---

## Page 39

PX 1105-2683

WRB: gjk

enclosed anonymous letter to each member of the faculty

committee which is hearing the charges against STARSKY. This

committee is sitting in the Law School on the ASU campus and

is composed of

the following faculty members:

1. Dr. ROSS R. RICE, Chairman.

2. JOHN A. COCHRAN

3. RICHARD W. EFFLAND

4. JOHN P: DECKER

5. WALLACE ADAMS, Chairman of the Faculty Assembly.

_.

• .

HH 55144

DocId: 32989636

Page 39

---

## Page 40

ANONYMOUS LETTER TO MENBERS

OF THE FACULTY COMMITTEE ON

ACADEMIC FREEDON AND TENURE

ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY

Dear Sir:

'It seems appropriate that you should be informed

of one of the most recent activities of Morris j. Starsky.

Starsky learned of a suicide attempt by one of his close campus

co-workers, David Murphy.

be trusted

as a member of the campus socialist group, Starsky

demanded that Murphy return all literature and other materials

belonging to the socialist group. Murphy refused to give Starsky

a quantity of socialist literature in his

possession until Starsky

would pay him a sum slightly in excess of $50 which was owed for

telephone calls charged by Starsky to Murphy's telephone. Morris

Starsky was indignant at Murphy's independent attitude and at

2:00 A.M. on April 5, 1970 he, accompanied by his wife Pamela

and two young male associates,

invaded Murphy's apartment and

under threat demanded leiuin of the suciaiisi iiieraiure. Then

Murphy refused unless Starsky paid the phone bill, Starsky told

him that his two associates would beat him unmercifully.

Murphy,

convalescing from a recent hospital stay, was under great lear

of bodily harm or death and surrendered

the Literature.

I find this episode interesting. Where did Starsky

learn of the effectiveness of smashing into a person's home at

2:00 A.M.?.

Also, of utilizing four persons to threaten the

health or life of someone?

this an example of academic

soçialism?

Should the ASU student body enjoy the guidance of

such an instructor?

It seems to me that this type of activity

is something that Himler or Beria could accept with pride. If

Starsky did not enjoy the prestige and sanctuary of his position

he would be properly punished for such a totalitarian venture.

Unfortunately, Murphy is too terrified to testify against starsky.

This' is another example of Starsky's brand of academic socialism.

/s/ A concerned ASU alumnus

NH 55144 DocId: 32989636 Page 40

---

## Page 41

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

SAC, Phoenis

(105- 2088)

Directox REGiST (100319693)-38-14

COINTNLPRO - NEW LITT

1

1

w. a. rloyd

R.

1. Horner

4/24/70

#.MDRI6

ALL INTORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IN UNCLASSITIED

BARH2/27/00BISP2AT

TATE

Reurairtel 4/7/70.

Authority is granted to nake the anonymous mailing

as suggested in referenced airtol. These letters. may be

to those recipients listed in that connunication.

preos to mailing, however, you should change the

Lornat in order to delete the caption "Anonymous Letter to

Members of the laculty Committee on Academic Freedon and

Tonure, Arizona State University."

Closely inllow this master and keep the Bureau

advised of sesults.

1 - 100450364

RAH : Icie

(G)

Tolson

DeLoach

Walters -

Moht _

Bishop

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Soyars -

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

NOTE:

.. MAILED I

APR 2 4 1970

COMM-FBI

ПЕРСОНЬ

Morris i. Starsky is a Security Index subject of the

Phoenix Office.

Fe is the Faculty Advisor to the loung Socialist

Alliance, the youth group of the socialist Workers Party.

He is

& professor at

the Arizona State University and his activities

have resulted in a hearing before the Faculty Committee on

Acadenic Freedom and Jenure. Phoenix has developed information

indicating that as a resuli of a disagreement between Starsky and

David Murphy, a graduate student at the University who has been

affiliated with him in his activities, starsky illegally entered

Murphy's residence during the night, threatened Murphy, and removed

literature from his apartment.

Murphy called police who investigates

but then he refused to prefer charges. Phoeniz suggests an

anonymous letter be sent to the members of the Faculty Committee

apprising then of this incident.

Dat

FUC

5

F323

AP

Ro:

30

19700E UNIT

89636

Page

41

---

## Page 42

¡JNAL FORM NO. 10

HE FDITION

FOR (11 CFR) 101-11.8

UNITED STATES GI

ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (100-449698)

DATE:

5/12/70

• FROM

SAC,

PHOENIX (105-2683) (P)

SUBJECT: COINTELPRO - NEW LEFT

Re Bureau letter 4/24/70 and phoenix letter,

4/7/70.

Pursuant to authority in referenced Bureau

letter, the mailing requested in Phoenix letter was

made on 5/6/70.

The changes were made in the letter as

suggested in referenced Bureau letter and the Bureau will

be advised of any apparent effects resulting from this action.

LI INFORMATION CONTAINE

TUREIN IS UNCLASSIFLE

DATE 12 22/0038 SPY ALMIATE M

REC- AL

+ 00-4419698-38-15

117t

Bureau

(RM)

2 -

Phoenix

WRB/rs

(4)

22 MAY 1 4 1970

SECTION

RESENT

HH 55414

1310

56 MAY 2 1 1970

DocId: 32989636

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

## Page 43

IM NO. 10

MION

4R (41 CFFR) 101-11.5

UNITED STATES GOVLRNMENT

Memorandum

го

: DIRECTOR, FBI (100-449698)

#MDRIG

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFIS

DATE 12/22/00 BYSA Z HEMLETE

DATE,:

6/30/70

BROM

: SAC, PHOENIX (105-2683) (P)

SUBJECT: COINTELPRO - NEW LEFT

Re Phoenix quarterly let, 3/31/70, Phoenix

airtel and LEM, 4/7/70 and

I Bulet,

4/24/70.

I. POTENTIAL COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTION

INFORMATION DOES NOT

TO TARGET OF INTEREST

PERTAIN

The situation in regard to Professor MORRIS STARSKS,

a faculty member at Arizona State University (ASU) in

suburban Tempe, whici is commented üpon under Roman Numeral

III below, may present additional potential for action

in this program.

However,

the most recent conments regarding

STARSKY'S status with ASU

is that he has agreed to take a one-

year sabbatical. In the event that his case becomes a cause

celebre for the New Left or the Socialist Workers Party on

the ASU campus in the near future, it will be evaluated for

possible counterintelligence action.

II. PENDING COUNTER INTELLIGENCE ACTION

INFORMATION DOES NUT PERTAIN

TO TARGET OF INTEREST

III, TANGIBLE RESULTS

The anonymous letter prepared by Phoenix regarding

ProfesSor STaRSKY,

described in re Phoenix airtel dated 4/7/70,

was mailed to the

listed recipients as instructed in re Bulet.

2_ Bureau (RM

1 - Phoenix

TE6+1 1 00-449-698-38-16

VRB: gjk

(3)

.1I JUL 2 1970.

EX-1I6

51/2!

NEWUL 1519/0

1H0 56144

DocId: 32584636- Saue8s Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

## Page 44

PX 105-2683

*VRB: gjk

A Phoenix daily newspaper on 5/11/70, carried an

article

relating that Professor STARSKY had been fired by the Arizona

an offer to STARSKY to take a sabbatical leave for the full

academic year of 1970-1971, to which he was entitled, based

on his years of service.

However,

it was required that he

would not return to ASU following his sabbatical. A second

choice that was offered to STARSKY by the Regents was that

his contractual relationship would be terminated at

the end

of the current school year.

The anonymous letter mentioned above, mas directed

to the members of the faculty conmittee which was hearing

charges against STARSKY.

Although the findings of the committee

vere not immediately made public, it has been reported that

the committee did not find sufficient

cause to fire STARSKY.

SOURCE AND

POSITION

• ASU and an establisnea

anonyilous charges received by the faculty committee members

greatly tarnished STARSKY's reputation and standing in the

academic community.

•2-

Af 5514*

1141

---

## Page 45

TO

SUBJECT:

OFF UNAL FORM NO. T0

"OZ EDITION

• FPMR (61 CFR) 101-11.6

MITED STATES Gr

NMENT

lemorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-449698)

SAC, SAN ANTONIO

(100-10510)

COINTELPRO

DATE:

- 0, 3/69

ambie, 6

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

FREEN IS UNCLASSIFIED,

DA 312/22/04BY SP 27LM/FIG

RE:

EVELYN ROSE SELL

On 10/3/69,

SOURCE

•AND

POSITION

Austin Independent School

District.

6100 Guadalupe,

Austin, Texas:

advised that

EVELYN ROSE SELL (SAfile 100-11434; DEfile 100-19558)

is a teacher in the Head Start Program under the

auspices of the Austin Independent School District.

stated that the school district desires to

terminate her services but Is unable to do so because

of a lack of information from the Detroit Public School

System concerning her background.

Ол 10/3/69,

SOURCE AND POSITION

Texas, advised that

confidence

any information he receives.

LEADS:

COPY FILION ALY

DETROIT DIVISION:

AT DETROIT, MICHIGAN:

Through established

sources, furnish information that can be disseminated,

with Bureau approval, to SoURCE

who is considered

reliable.

/c.C.

30240

Bureau

(RM)

EX-106

82 - 100-449698 COINTELPRO)

(1 - 100-

EVELTE SELL REC- 38

3 -

DE (RM)

105-1149688-455

12 - 100-

COINTELPRO)

(1 - 100-19558 - EVELYN SELL)

2 - SA

(1 - 100-11434 (SELL)

1Z: ОСТ 13 1969

(1 - 100-10510)

HWR: pml

(8)

178

00770.3994

6010-108

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

55144

DocId: 32989636 Page 45

---

## Page 46

TO

SUBJECT:

OTIONAL FORM NO 10

I¡MAY TREZ EDITION

'OSA FEMA (11 GFRY 101-11.5

UNITED STATES (

TERNMENT.

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI

(100-449698)

DATE:

1/G9

1-12-69

SAC, DETROIT (100-19558) (P)

COINTELPRO

i1..

FEMDRIG.

ALI, INFORTION CONTAINED

• HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFTEI

ĐẶNG 12/27/00 B\SP 2ALD/HH6

RE:.

EVELYN ROSE SELL

Re San Antonio letter to Detroit, dated 10/3/69.

Enclosed for San Antonio are four bulletins

containing information about EVELYN SELL and her

affiliation with the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) •

These bulletins were passed out around the city of Detroit

and need

not 'be returned except for the bulletin which

is green in color and was furnished by a source.

Two of these bulletins are bulletins of the

Friday Night Socialist Forum (FNSF) and a characterization

of the FNSF is attached for the San Antonio Office.

In addition SoURCE

Elections

commission, Michigan Department of state, Lansing, NIch.,

furnished the results of the 1908 november General

Elections

for, the State of Michigan.

In this election,

EVELYN SELL ran on the SWP ticket for the Michigan State

Board of Education. SoURCE

said SELL was defeated.

SELL received 7594 votes out, of a total of over 3 million

votes that were. cast in the election.

(1-100-398576)

2 - San Antonio (Enc. 5) (RM)

(1-100-10510)

(2-100-11434)

1 - Detroit

LES/j1g

(6)

Ni CHls! 1 A..

REC- 87

10.0.=

44:9698-889

12.

NOV 14 1969

-

INT SEC

W 5514/PocId:32989636 Page 46

---

## Page 47

OPT

AL. FORM NO. 10

них

12 EDITION

R (41 CARI 101-11.0

UNITED

STATES GL

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-449698)

DATE:

FROM

¡SAC, SAN ANTONIO (100-10510) (P)

SUBJECT:

COINTELPRO - NEW LEFT

Re San Antonio let to the Bureau, 9(16/69,

which was the three-month status letter regarding this

program as it pertains to the San Antonio Division.

prosram in he 12 in is the seen status of this

I.

POTENTIAL COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTION:

CONTAINEI

ALL INFORNATI

IMSSIFIED

HEREIN IS,

DOBY SEEMM

DAIL

INFORMATION DOES NOT

PERTAIN

TO TARGET OF

INTEREST

10/6

9

#IMDEIG

До

DECLASSIFI

*/.

2-Bureau (RM)

9+D

2-San Antonio

BED: 1db

(4)

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION-

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

1x-101

REG 44

100-44969:845-129

DEC 12 1959

EXC

=":.

-.

5X5174

$02

DocId: 32989Buy U SuSawings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Ple

З'О.

---

## Page 48

SA

700-20520

II. PENDING COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTION:

On 10/3/69,

SOURCE AND pOSITION

• Austin Independent School District,

Austin, Texas, advised that EVELYN

ROSE SNELL (a Security

Index

subject

of the San Antonio Division) is a teacher

in the flead Start program under the auspices of the

AustIn Independent school DIstrIct, sounCE

stated

that she school district desinas to terminato

her services,

but is unable to do so because of a lack of information

from the Detroit public school system concerning her

background.

Detroit was requested to furnish public source

information to San Antonio and lI suitable public source

material is received, Bureau authority will be obtained

to furnish this information to souRcE,..

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

TO TARGET OF INTEREST

!

!

III. TANGIBLE RESULTS:

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

TO TARGET OF INTEREST

2-

ITH 55141 DocId:32989636 Page 48

---

## Page 49

SA' 100-10510

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

TO TARGET OF INTEREST

3

HH 55144 DocId: 32989636

Page 49

---

## Page 50

SA 100-10510

INFORMATION DOES NIT. PERTAIN

TO

TARGET OF INTEREST

4

-

HH 55144

DocId: 32989636 Page 50

---

## Page 51

SA

100-10510

INFORMATION DOES NOT PERTAIN

TO TARGET OF INTEREST

-

NH 55144 DocId: 32989636 Page 51

---

## Page 52

SA'200-10510

6

HH 55144 DocId:32989636

Page 52

---

## Page 53

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

rOSTA FORM NO. 10

AY 14OE SDITION

RA SOMB (11 CFR) 101-11.6

FINITED STATES GOI

INMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-449698)

SAC, SAN ANTONIO (100-10510) (P)

CCOINTELPRO

IS - DISRUPTION OF NEW LEFT

DATE:

1/13/70

F7M DE16

ALI. INFORMATION CONTAINLU

HEREIN IS UNCLASSITIED

DATE12/27

00 BYSPA

RE: EVELYN ROSE SELL

ReDElet to Bureau, 11/12/69, which enclosed

certain public source material concerning EVELYN ROSE SELL.

Enclosed

for Detroit is the original leaflet

entitled, "PANEL DISCUSSION ON DETROIT SCHOOLS," which

had been furnished to that office by an informant.

On 118170, the above public source material was

made available to

SOURCE

AND POSITION

FARMER.

•SOURCE

Austin, Texas, by SA JAMES E.A

assured the contacting Agent that the

source of the information would not be made available to s

SOURCE

, the

POSITION

at Austin, who had requested the information, souRcE

also advised that any

positive

results gained from use

of the material would immediately be furnished to the Austin

Resident Agency.

The case file concerning EVELYN ROSE SELL

is being retained in a pending status until receipt of the

Any information received from

RUC report From petrol sELl's employment status will be

furnished to the Bureau under the COINTELPRO caption.

EX-116

3 - Detroit (100-

Bureau Too +9965889 RECAlf: -445691-45-70

(1- 100-398576)

COINTELPRO) (RM) (Enc. 1)

(1- 100-19558) (SELL)

4 - San Antonio

5 JAN I9 1970

(2 - 100-10510)

(2 - 100-11434)

JEF: pml

(10)

50 JAND 8 1970

a DocId: 32989636

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

1,1

UNRECONN

---

## Page 54

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

• FORMINO. 10

MAY I

1897111098

ESA FREIR (41 (FR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES G

•ERNMEVT

Memorandum

DIPECTOR, FBI (100-333575)

DATE:

1: 3/31/701

FY SAC, SAY ANTOIO (100-21434) (P)

#mOR 6

A LIS INFORNATION CONTAINEU

EVELYN ROSE SELL

Sti - SWP

1/28/76

3/6/70.'

Re Detroit report of SA LLOYD E. SARISKY,

and Bureau latter to the departnent of Army,

On 3/20/70

SOURCE

AND POSITION

Austin Indapendent school District, Austin,

Texas, 'furnished the following information to SA ITOJARD !.

KILEY:

The subject applied fon a position with the dustin

Independant School District on 5/21/69, having previously

advised that she mould be an Auster, Texas, during the latter

part o1 vune and early part or duty.

196g for the purposs of

sesking employment.

She was interviewed on 1/7/89, ano

employed =ffective 9/23/69.

The subject advised tas Austir Independent School

District that she was divorced and that in the fall of 1663

her parents' had natired and

moved abroad.

Therefore, she

removed any personal ties with Detroit where she was

employed from 1955 to 1969 by the Detroit Public Schools

and specifically at Burtor Elementary School.

Mrs. SELL stated that hes docton had reconnended

that she move to the southwesten sant of the United States

because of sinus and allergy conditions. She stated trat

to the aboves for

the reason that she wanted to be nean the University of

Texas (UT) and enjoyed the cultural aspects of a university

area, noting thet she has been anound the university arte

REC 8

100-388576-33

expenses wers paid for by a loa: from the Nazional Dafense

Education Fund. As long as she ie teaching in public

schools, 10 percint of that loan is sxcused under the

- Bureau (Re:)

2

- San Antonio

(4)

11W

551

1/25ar7d: 35089636

Bade 54

---

## Page 55

SA| 100-11434

requirements of the National Defense Education Fund;

if she is employed in

a poverty area as a teacher,'15.%

percent of the loan is excused.

These two reasons also

showed her desire and need to teach in a school systan.

The subject was

born 9/23/29, in Cleveland, Ohio,

and attended high school in Detroit,

1944-1947.

She

attended Wayne State Univasity, Detroit, from November:

1948 to June, 1969, on an intermittent basis.

She received

a B.A. Degree in Elementary Education from Wayne State

University in 1965.

Other employments furnished by the subject were:

1951 - 1952, teller, Detroit Bank and Trust Company

1957 - 1961 - secretary, Curtis Circulation Company,

Detroit

1961 - 1963, Garrick Photo Supply, Detroit

During these periods she was also attending school

part of the time.

The subject has tre children, the most

recent being a son, ERIC, born in 1953.

A credit report request by the Austin Independent

•School District indicated that in Detroit the subject had

not had any charge accounts, that there was no credit

information and no derogatory information concerning the subjace.

The subject was employed to participata in the

Head Start Program with the contract expiring on 4/30/70.

* Under normal past procedure, these contracts have been

extended until 5/30/70, and will be in the case of the

subject.

The subject will not be re-employed upon tha

completion of the contract at the end of 5/30/70, and will

not be employed in the Austin Independent School District.

-?-

H# 55144 DooId:32989636 Page 55

---

## Page 56

SA1100-11434

The Head Start Program will be operated by an!

independent group cormencing with the 1970-1971 school

year and will no longer be under the auspices of the

Austin Independent School District.

subject was describad as an intelligent,

excellent teacher who was well qualified in her field.

Bureau attention is directed to San Antonio letter

to the Bureau captioned "COINTELPRO, IS - DISRUDTION OF

NEW 'LEFT," Bufile 100-449698, SAfila 100-10510, dated

1/13/70 г

souRcE stated that the decision not to issue

a new contract on consider the subject further for employ-

ment after the termination of her current contract is based

upon

information received from

SOURCE

of the

Austin Police Department.

sourcE further stated that

information furnished by

SOURCE

would be funnished to

• the

organization nich will be handling the Head Start Program i

the 1970-1971 school year.

LEADS

SAN ANTONIO

AT AUSTIN, TEXAS. Will furnish an LIlM to the

"Department of the Army concerning the subjact as set out

in referenced Bureau letter to the Department of the Army.

«?.

- 3

HW 55144

DocId: 32989636

Page -56

---

## Page 57

*:

SAC, NFO (100-17992)

DIreCtOr,

(100-452984)

MAUDE ADAMS WHITE

SM - SHP

4/11/59

- Mr. R.H. Horner

A LT. INFORMATION CONTAINE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIELSD

DATE 12/22/00 BYSPE ALM/HTG

• nast

MAILED

APRI

1969

Tolson

DeLoach

Nohr

B:shop

Casper

Callahen

Consad.

Foll _

Gule

Rosen -

Sullivan - E"

Tavel m

To S CAPR T 81960

NH 55144

DocId: 32989636

Page 57

Rerep of SA Roberi C. Quigley dated at FFO, 3/7/69.

Rerep states that the subject, who is a nember of

the

Young Socialist ALliance (ISA), is employed as an

elementary teacher

11 Washington, D. C.

In wew of this situation, you are to consider

available steps thai can be taken of a counteriniellisence

nature to have the subject separated from her employcont as

a teacher. In this sogard and consistent with the secarity

your In ormalls and your investigation. you should

consider sending an anonymous letter to the subject's

errents

notitying them of hor membership in the YSA.

You should also advise the Bureau as to whethor an

estlished

and reliable source is avallable at the Board oi

Education to whom you could furnish this information in the

strictest confidence.

Take

no steps in this rogard unill

Bureau approval is obtained.

Promptly submit your recommendations as to the

above.

rem

• 100449698

COMA1-§81

Rik: jes

(5)

NOTE: •

Referenced repori sets forth that subject is a

teacher in the elementary schools in Washingion, D. C.,

is a

member of the YSA, and has altended education] and regional

conferences of that organization. Her father is repairdy

a Methodist minister and could be expected to be in

-opposition to the tenets of XSA.

In any event, we shinid

-sees methods designed to separate her fron the educational

_system.

REC: +3 100-452984

#0+41597567

19 ar: 33 11

---

## Page 58

TO

• FROM

SUBJECT:

1H 55144

Lext

SAC,WFO

1100-449698

5/1/69

OFTIONAL, FORM NO. 10

MAY SEE COITICI

GSA FEMA (41 CFRX) 801-11.8

TINITED STATES GOV.

MENT

Memorandum

ett.

DIRECIOR, FBI (100-452984)

DATE:

4/23/69

M/SAC, NEO. (100-47992). (P) .

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINEL

MAUDE. ADAMS WHITE

SM - SWP

HEREIN IS UNCLASSITIED

017312/27/60 BY SP-ZALMETE

ReBulet to NFO, 4/11/69.

INFORMANT has advised that the subject's mother

was visiting her apartment last month when a meeting of

the Washington, D. C. (VDC) local of the Young Socialist

Alliance (YSA) was held. In view of this information, an

anonymous letter'to the subject's parents may not have the

desired effect.

With respect to furnishing information concern-

ing the subject's membership in the YSA in a reliable source

in the WDC Board of Education, WO does not feel that it

has a source at present in whom this anount of confidence

• could be placed.

• WEO would recommend, however; an anonymous letter

from on e of the subject's neighbors to the Chairman of

, the Board of Education.

This latter rould outline the fact

that meetings.of an un-American organization known as Young

Socialists were held weekly in the subject's apartment and

certain literature was found in the hallmy. It would also

point out that the subject has been living

with a man for

the last three months

YSA.

At times

she'is also visiird oy a dogro male who stays

•overnight. This individual is JOB Milas, a YSA member

curtently in the U. S. Army.

1

Bureau

WED

The above information has been verified by INfoRmaNT

100-452984-4

NEC 4

EX-105

RCQ: vkd

(3)

183

APR 28 1959

+407477659

rise

DocId: 32989636 Page 58

---

## Page 59

• 1

1

~ Mi. Crescioli I

1

- Mir. RolL. Horner

5/7/69

SAC, WTO (100-17992)

Director, FBI (100-452934) - 4

MAUDE ADAMS WHITE

St a Still ties

#MDRIG

ATT, INFORMATION CONTAINED

DEKEIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

ReBulet 4/11/69 and your letter 4/23/69.

The Bureau concurs with your observations as set

forth in your letter dated 4/23/69.

Provided the security of your informants is

insured, you are authorized to prepare an anonymous letter

purportedly fron a neighbor and containing the information

set forth in referenced letter.

Assure that all necessary steps are taken to

protect the identity of the bureau as the source vi this

letter.

Submit a copy of your letter to the Bureau. for approval.

I - 100-449698

1n.

BHI: jeS

(6)

NÓTE :

White is a teacher in the elementary school system

In Washington, D. C.itlendchember of the YSA, the youth group

• of the sif; and has/educational and regional conferences of

that organization.

By referenced WrOlet, that office stated

it did not appear

advisable to anonymously advise her parents

of these facis since her mother apparently already knew oi

her menbership in the YSA. It was also stated that since there

are no sources available on the Board of Education to viom this

information could be sately reported, this information could

be most effectively used by submitting an anonymous letter

to the Board of Education purportedly from a neighbor.

Since

this infornation must be placedwith the Board of Education, we

are auchorizing the anonymous letter be prepared.

MAILED 10

MAY 6 - 1969

COMM-FBI

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr

Bishop

Casper

Callahan

Contad -

Fell -

Gole -

Rosen

Sullivan.

Tovel -

Trellag

Tole, too.

HH 55144

DocId: 32989636

TELETYFT UNIT

Page

59

---

## Page 60

OFTIONAI FORM NO, 10

CISA lIPMAs (68 C717) 101-11.9

UNITED STATES GO

RN

INT

Memorandum

: DIRECIOR, FBI (100-452984)

FROM KR

SAC,

WEO (100-47992) (P)

SUBJECT: MAUDE ADAMS WHITE

SM- SWP

DATE:

5/2: /69

ReBulet to WFO dated 5/7/69.

Enclosed for the Bureau is one copy of a letter

to D.C. School Superintendent from an anonymous source.

The letter was typed by secretary ROYLETTA M.

HUSTON on plain bond typewriter paper and will be mailed in

a stamped, plain white envelope in the vicinity of 1801 16th

Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.

The original is being maintained by Mio pending

Bureau approval.

#mOR16

AGL. INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIT ED

DATE 12/27/00 BUS/FALM 116.

1

= Bureau (EnC1, L) SHCLOSURE

RCQ: rmh

(3)

100-452-984-5

VAC,

WFO

MAY 26 1969

Ppi:

HIt 559

DocId: 32989605 LayerSlines Bonds Regulorly on the Pegrell Savings Pl

---

## Page 61

Nashlugton, D.C.

May

29, 1969

William R. Manning

Superintendent

D.C. School System

415 12th Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C.

#INDRIE

LL INFORMRTION CONIAINEI

HEREIN IS UNPLASSIFIE

DAT 1227100 BYSPZALMIEEG

Dear Sir,

I am writing this letter directly to you as Superintendent

of the D.C. School System because of the severity of the accusations

which I am making against a teacher in the D.C. system.

aware of your interest in the quality of education in thiu, she

capitol clys and 1 am sure that you will take a responsible attailde

toward the information which I an furnishing.

As a resident of a large apartment building as 1801 16ch

Street, N."., I have becone aware of the activities of another

resident

kiss Maude White, who is a teacher in the local elementary

school at Loch and s streets. n..

I have learned that since Janua

of this years miss white has

weekly meetings of a socialist yonsi

group which is active in the machingcon area, from literacure found

In our hallways, I have determined that this group is known as the

Young Socialist

Alliance and from personal, observation I hove learaad

that approximately twenty individuals attend these meetings each

Sunday evening at Miss White's apartment.

is:"

The literature belonging to this group advocated an overtim

of our present system or government in a way similar to tho Cubai

revolution of Fidel Castro. The

printed policy of the group supper"

violent activities against

established authority, particularly the

police,

and considers ghetto and student rioting as the boginning o:

the violent revolucion.

In & recent Copy Of their national magazine tue Young

socialist,

it is suggested that anyone interested 22 ine 0-2101220

can contact Terrill Brumback at 1801 1Sth Street, M.W., Apnitmont Cl

This is apparently the same individual wo has been

living with Hiri

White for the last five months.

I have noticed hin on

occasions parking Diamond Cab 1280 in front of the apartner buildi

HY 55144

DocId: 32989636 Page 61

ENCLOSURE

---

## Page 62

* ==

I bring this information to your attention in brr ar

to

protect the D.C. School System from the menace of a teache: vho

does not have the intorests of the childron or the country it beart.

I am certain that a rosponsibio school administrator like urself

would not allow a revolutionist to indoctrinate the fertil minds

of grade school childier.

Since most of this information is actually public Inow

ledge, only limited

investigation by your office will be necossary

to verity these accusations.

For my own protection, i am not signing

this letter.

¿ assure you

that thls lack of identiiication in

way affects

the veracity of the information contained herein.

I sincerely hope that your investigation and aypropriate

action can be completed before the start of the noxt semester.

an sure you will agree that the children and the country deserve to

be

protected.

A Concerned

Citizen

1H 55144 DocId: 32989636

Page 62

---

## Page 63

4

SAC, NTO (100-17992)

REC 25.

Director, 15t 2500-452984) - 5

MAUDE ADAMS THITE

SM - SEP

13/69

I - Mr. Cresci,11

1 - Mr. R.H. Horner

Reurlet 5/23/69 and enclosure thereto:

Authority is granted to prepare and anonynously

mail the letter subnitted as an enclosure to relet to the

Superintendent, D. C. School Systen.

In preparing and mailing this letter, you are to

take all steps necessary to protect the identity of the

Bureau as the

source.

Promptly advise the Bureau of any results nosed.

I = 100449698

RHI: jes

(6)

#MORE

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINI

PEREIN IS LNCLASSIFIED

DAIN 12 2200 BISPEPEMN

NOTE:

The subject is a member of the Young Socialist

Alliance, Lie youth group of the Socialist Workers Party

(SWP) •

She is a schoolteacher in the D.C. School Systen.

in addition to being a menber of the ysA, she apparently has

been illegally conabiting with a male individual at her

Sad he apparent

- apartnent in the District.

WrO has advised that it has no

sources on the District school Board of sufficient reliability

to whon it could furnish this information.

By relet, it vas

suggested that the anonymous letter be submiited to William

C. Manning, Superintendent of the District School Systen

apprising him of the situation respecting

• White.

Tolsan

Del.ooch

Moh: -

Riches

Carpos

Colichen

MAILED 6

JUN3 1969

COMM-FBI

We got D

TraT

19171

1365099860

rE.a9FE ENT

---

## Page 64

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

FOPA MO. 10

AÍAY 16

D'TION

IGSA FPILIA (11 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GU

RNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-452994)

§AC, WTO (100-47992) (2)

MAUD! ADAMS WHITE

SM-SWP

(OC :WFO).

DATE:

713/69

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ISREIN IS UNCLASSIFITD

1B2l/00.BxS

DATE

fat.

RIA, At

Ray

Re Bulet, 6/3/69.

SOURCE ANPOSITION

Metro-

politan Police Department, (MPD), Washington, D.C. (WDC),

trlephonically contacted WFO on 6/25/69, concerning captioned

subject. INFORMATION TENDS TO IDENTIFY SOURCE

AuD was making inquires regarding WHITT's activities

•at. thr direction of the newly appointed Assistant Super-

intendent of Schools in charge of Personnel. The information

which SouRcE furnished to WFO was the same as that contained

in WFO's counterintelligence effort approved by referenced

communication.

dentr.ce

On 7/1/69, INFORMANT stated that WHITF. was currently

employed with Headstart in WDC, earning approximately $6.00

per hour.

3-7-09(86013

SOURCE

was Iscontacted on 7/1/69, and

I, linesin

advised that he was conducting a continuing investigation

with regard to WHITF's association with subversive organ-

дог

4-19-67

izations. SourcE was furnished information concerning

WHITE's public activities as a YSA member.

SOURCE

advised that WHITF's salary under

the Headstart program consists of: 90% Office of [conomic

Opportunity (0F0), funds and 10% D.C. Government funds.

Siner Hearstart is not 100%. funded by OFO, WFO is

not considrring a sccurity of government employee case on

WHITF.

REC 18

108452984-6

Burrau

... vuL 8 1969 .

#I: WE (1-100-47757)

59 048 45 .969

DocId: 329896 By Bade Sonings Bands Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan T

---

