# docid-32326718

## Page 1

I Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90056-10025

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 183-737-12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SF

• TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

08/11/1976

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE AMARENA

SAMMY PAXTON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

TT

v9.1

DocId: 32326718

Page 1'

20

---

## Page 2

/ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

(11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Assoc. Dir.

• to

Dep.-A.D.-Adm.

Dep.-A.D.-Inv

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Asst. Dir.:

SF NR 932

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Affairs

Fin. & Fers..

NR OIL SF CODE

AUG 1 & 1976

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

Inspection

8:52PM NITEL 8/ 1D/76. MJE

LETYPE

Intell.

Laboratory

TO:

DIRECIOR, FBI

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Eval.

FROM:

SAN

FRANCISCO (183-114) (P)

Rec. Memt.

Spec. Inv.

Training

SALVATORE

AMARENA, AKA;

ET AL, RICO, 00: SF.

REBUAIRTEL TO SAN FRANCISCO DATED JULY 15?

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y

1976

AND

SAN FRANCISCO AIRTEL TO BUREAU DATED JULY 30, 1976.

A MEMORANDUM ATTACHED TO REFERENCED BUREAU AIRTEL

REFLECTED DEPARIMENTAL AUTHORIZATION WAS GRANTED ON JULY 14,

1976, FOR A 3O-DAY EXTENT IN REGARD IO IME USE OF A

MICROPHONE IN THE APARTMENT OF SF 8677-PC.

ON AUGUSI 6, 1976, JIMMY FRATIANNO CAME TO PC'S

APARIMENT AND THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED THROUGH

THE USE OF ELECIRONIC SURVEILLANCE: FRATIANNO MADE A

PHONE CALL TO IRVING SHAPERO AND LEFI A MESSAGE THAT

DOCTOR SCHWARIZ HAD CALLED. FRATIANNO TELEPHONED GORDON (LNU

AND MENTIONED THE TROPICANA NIGHI CLUB IN LAS VEGAS.

FRATIANNO CALLED PAUL (LNU AND ADVISED PAUL THAI THE

CUTON VAS COBNO TO STRIKE IN H TOIL REC BE 0683-737-131

HE HAS REPRESENTING HIM IS ONE OF THE MOST HATED MEN BY

AUG I€ 1975

UNION.

FRATIANNO REITERATED TO PAUL THAT IF HE HAD THE

SUC ETERNION

4-5/12

DocId: 32326718 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE THREE

SF 183-114

MURRAY IN ABOUT TWO WEEKS AND ASKED IF THOSE GUYS ARE

ALL RIGHT. JIMMY TOLD MURRAY HE WOULD TALK TO HIM AGAIN

IN ABOUT A WEEK. AFTER THE CONCLUSION OF THE ABOVE PHONE

CALL JIMMY TOLD THE SOURCE HE SENT FOUR GUYS TO AUSTRALIA

TO MAKE SOME DEALS BUT DID NOT SAY WHAT THE DEALS WERE.

FRATIANNO TOLD PC THAI SINIO (PH, AN INDIVIDUAL

THAT FREQUENIS SAL'S EXPRESSO CAFE, WAS SENT TO NEW YORK

BY FRATIANNO IO BORROW $20, ODO OR S3O, ODO FROM A GUY THAT

FRATIANNO KNOWS IN NEW YORK FRATIANNO STATES THAT SINIO

RUNS SOME SORI OF A SMALL RESTAURANI IN MARIN COUNTY,

MAYBE A PIZZA JOINT.

FRATIANNO CALLS OUT AND ADVISED AN UNKNOWN SUBJECT

THAI HE TALKED TO BOB (LNU ABOUT A TRUCK JOB MONDAY

MORNING AT 8:30. JIMMY. IELLS UNSUB IHAI A GUY HE TALKED TO

AN HOUR AGO IS COMING IN IWO WEEKS, POSSIBLY MURRAY FROM

AUSTRALIA, AND JIMMY SAYS HE HAS FOUR GUYS OVER THERE NOW.

FRATIANNO TOLD PC THAT HOWARD COOK WAS MAKING SOME

SORT OF A BUSINESS DEAL WHICH INVOLVED $3O, DOO AND THE

DocId: 32326718 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE FOUR

SF 133-114

STAGECOACH CAFE ON MONIGOMERY STREET IN SAN FRANCISCO,

CALIFORNIA.

AFTER

FRATIANNO LEFT PC'S APARIMENI PC IMMEDIATELY

IELEPHONED SA JENKINS AND ADVISED IHAT FRATIANNO HAD LEFT

HIS ADDRESS BOOK AND NUMEROUS BUSINESS CARDS

AT HER

APARIMENT. THE ADDRESS BOOK AND BUSINESS CARDS WERE

OBTAINED, XEROXED, AND RETURNED TO THE PO WHICH PO RETURNED

TO FRATIANNO. NUMEROUS NAMES AND TELEPHONE NUMBERS WERE

OBTAINED FROM THE BUSINESS CARDS AND THE ADDRESS BOOK

ON AUGUST 10, 1976, SAN FRANCISCO STRIKE FORCE (SFSF)

ATTORNEY JOHN EMERSON WAS CONTACIED REGARDING A 3D-DAY

EXTENSION OF THE MICROPHONE INSTALLATION IN SOURCE'S

APARIMENT. EMERSON ADVISED THAT HE AGREED WITH REQUESTING

ANOTHER 30-DAY EXTENSION FOR USE OF THE MICROPHONES IN

PC'S APARIMENT AND HE

FELT THAT ENTRAPMENT WAS NO PROBLEM.

EMERSON WAS ADVISED THAT PC WAS STILL WILLING TO TESTIFY

IN THIS MATTER

DocId: 32326718

Page 4

---

