# docid-32311061

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/14/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10311-10083

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-27799-450

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CASPER, J. J.

TO: MOHR

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/24/1964

1

USSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

11/25/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32311061

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notey

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

* UNITED STATES GOVERN

Memorandum

iNT

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach,

TO

:Mr. Mohr

DATE: 1/24/64

FROM

:J. J. Caspe

Savel,

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

SUBJECT: MICHAEL FRANCISAREILLY UNASH¿

INFORMATION CONCERNING

44

1 de

Captioned individual was formerly employed with the U. S. Secret

Service and during the administration of Franklin Delano Roosevelt was

investigation concerning him in 1947, during which it was determined

Chief of the White Houge Detai). The Bureau conducted an applicant type /

that the files of the U. S. Civil Service Commission contained unfavorable

information regarding the applicant's excessive drinking and misconduct

while a supervisory agent of the Secret Service. Bureau investigation developedi

similar information.

In March, 1963, he applied for a position with the Agency for

International Development (AID). The Bureau conducted an applicant-type

investigation of him at that time and additional derogatory information was

obtained. Professional associates would not recommend the applicant and

described him as a "alcoholic" who was frequently absent from his job as

Vice President of Fairbanks Whitney Corp, due to his excessive drinking.

His resignation was requested by that organization in February, 1963, after

he was unable, due to excessive drinking, to report to the office to meet

with the new Corp. President on the latter's trip to Washington, D. C

Based on information obtained during this investigation, he was not employed

by AID. Our investigation has also determined that Reilly's brother, James

Reilly, was arrested four times in 1948 and 1949 at San Pedro, California, &

two of these arrests for sexual perversion.

WE""

James Rowley, Chief, U.S. Secret Service, has advised that Reilly

is attempting to regain employment with the Secret Service and to this end has

/ 1 been successful in promoting letters from Senator Mike" Mansfield (D.-Montana).

and Representative John W. McCormack (Speaker of the House) to C. Douglas

Dillon, Secretary of the Treasury. Rowley advised that he is preparing letters

to Mansfield and McCormack advising that there is nothing he can do in this

- matter. He has requested any pertinent information in Bufiles concerning

Reilly: Copies of pertinent Bureau reports concerning Michael Francis Reilly

are being prepared and will be furnished to Chief Rowley.,

62-27999

450

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN 1

MACTION:

XEROX

JAN 28 1964

PEG:

For information®

90 JAN 2Z 1964

1 - Mr. DeLoach

1 - (124-8976)

what: mll. (4)

DocId: 32311061

Page 2

---

