# docid-32323900

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90021-10098

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-4311-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/27/1960

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH CAMPISI

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NH 45743

Docid: 32323900

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

DL 92-198

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA:

The long period date in this report is noted. The Bureau

was

advised of details relative to PELLEGRINO's move from New York

to Dallas in referenced letter.

Dallas requested office of

origin be changed from New York to Dallas and Dallas was designated

new office of origin by return copy of letter received by Dallas

3/25/60. There has been very little activity on PELLEGRINO's part

since he was arrested shortly after his arrival in Dallas by the

Dallas PD Vice Squad, charged with vagrancy, and interviewed

relative to his reason for moving to Dallas.

This case is

receiving continuous investigative attention at Dallas and regular

reports will be submitted relative to PELLEGRINO's activities.

INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following listed informants and sources are being

utilized in the investigation concerning PELLEGRINO:

DL-105-C;

DL-80-C;

DL-95-C:

Crane-Longly Funeral Home, Dallas, who

Is well acquainted with Italian police characters

and their families in the Dallas area. He requested

his identity be kept confidential.

Continued efforts will be made to effect complete

coverage of PELLEGRINO's activities and associates through

informants and other sources.

Efforts will be made to develop

new informants in this regard

Identity of Informants

T-1 is DL-105-C.

T-2 is DL-80-c.

T-3 is

DL-95-c.

Confidential Source.

is Mrs. JOHN HERMAN, subject's mother-in-law, 91

Cleveland Street, Valhalla, NY, who requested her identity be kept

confidential.

Careful consideration was given to each source concealed

by I-symbols in this report and T-symbols were utilized only where

identities must be concealed.

- B* -

Cover Page

OTHER 4

20091-10988

NW 45743 Docid: 32323900 Page 2

---

