# docid-32172571

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Recorus Collection Act Of 1992 114 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10175-10390

89-43-4462

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

LEG, BN

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/09/1964

4

SEE FBI 62-109060-3289

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/25/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32172571 Page 1

10 •

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kenredy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 144 050

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hote).

INFORIATION CONTAINED

VINCLASSIFIED

WIMERE SHOWN

CLASSIFIED BY 5668SC0

DECLA

GSIFY ON: 257.

2/26/97

DIRECTOR, FBI

(62-109060)

6/9/64

LEGÁT, BONN

(62-36)

(P)

SECRET

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

NOVEMBER 22,

1963, DALLAS,

TEXAS

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

4-27-93

Clazsited by 9803 ROD/EA

Dosiassily an BORJFK

ReBulet to Mr.

HERBERT J. MILLER,

Assistant

Attorney General, dated 5/14/64, and Buairtel

to Bonn 6/1/64.

With regard to FRIEDRICH RUDOLF BUSKE who wrote to

the Department of Justice on April 8, 1964 and May 6, 1964,

the Bundesant fuer Verfassungsschutz - (BfV - West German

Federal Agency for the Protection of the Constitution))

has furnished the following preliminary information.

_(S)

BUSKE

has been known to the BtWas weil as to other

West German agencies for a long white.

He has been arrested

eleven times in connection with various fraudulent operations

and at the present time ls serving a four and one-half year

sentence in prison at Stade, West Germany:

The data which

BUSRE said he submitted to German autherities on March 17, 1964,

was given to the Landesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz - (LiV - State

agency to the (Btv.(S)

data which would in any way bear on the problem of resolving

the circumstances of the murder of President KENNEDY or the

background for that action.

The Bry added that

BUskE has in the past frequently

furnished information to various West German agencies and

that. BUSKE was attempting, through these

some more lavorable treatment for himsolf.

The BfVlalso

5 - Bureau

(1-Llaison)

(2-Dallas: 89-43)

1 - Bonn

GAV : eds

(6)

89-43-44621

SEARCHED

....INDEXED

SERIALIZED

.....FILED ....

JUn:1 8.1904

112-10:

DocId: 32172571

Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BONN

62-36

SECRET.

stated that BUSKE had furnished information allegedly

pertaining to operations and plans of the

Last German

Intelligence Service which information was regarded as

being fantastic and resulted in BUSKE's name being added

to a warning list of persons regarded as unreliable

information peddlers.

The Bry' Sfroference to BUSKI's data on the Bast

German Intelligence Service appears to refer to the comment

made by BUSKE in the second paragraph of his letter to the

Attorney General dated May 6, 1964.

It appears

from the Bfv information that BUSKE'e

reliability is questionable.

However, the BIV has been

requested

to arrange for an interview of him to obtain

details of

what he has to say and to get this information

in a signed statement if possible.

They have also been

asked to provide

the information which BUSKE furnished on

March 17, 1964.

SECRET

-2-

89-43-4462

DocId: 32172571

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

DATE: 11-14-2017

1992 144 050 2107

"Hote).

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/GGL

DECLASSIFY PE 25X.

FORMATION CONTAINEU

MACLASSIFIED

SEPT

HENE

SHOWN

OTHERWISE

DIRECTOR; FBI

(62-109060)

6/9/64

LEGAT,

BONN

(62-36)

(* SECRET

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZCERALD KENNEDY

NOVEMBER 22, 1963, DALLAS,

TEXAS

MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING

14-27-93

Classifed

2.503 RDO/EH

JFK

ReBulet to Mr. HERBERT J. MILLER, Sr., Assistant

Attorney General, dated 5/14/64,

and Buairtel to Bonn 6/1/64.

With regard to

i FRIEDRICH

RUDOLF BUSKE who wrote to

the Department of Justice on April 8, 1964 and May 6, 1964,

the Bundesant fuer Verfassungsschutz - (BiV - West German

Federal Agency for the Protection of the Constitution)

has furnished the following preliminary information.

BUSKE has

West German agencies for a long white.

" He has

been arrested

eleven times in connection with various fraudulent operations

and at the present tine is serving a four and one-half year

sentence in prison at Stade, West Germany:

The data which

BUSKE said he submitted to German authorities on March 17, 1964,

was given to the Kandesant fuer Verfassungsschutz - (LIV - State

ice Tor the Lestection ot the constitution for the state

i ledersachsen and was also reterred by chai

agency to the Biv. (s)

states that that intormation contained no concrete

which would in any way bear on the problem of resolving

the circumstänces of the murder of President KENNEDY or the

background for that action.

The BIV added that BUSKE

has in the past frequently

furnished intormation to various

West German agencies and

ofticias which intormation was regarded as unbelievable.

the BiV expressed the opinion that there was strong probability

that BUSKE was attempting, through these reports,

to gain

some more favorable treatment for himself.

the BiV

B150(

5 - Bureau

(1-Liaison)

(2-Dallas: 89- 43)

1 - Bonn

GAV: eds

(G)

89-43-4462

SEARCHED

2. INDEXED

SERIALIZED .........FILED

JUN 71904

FBI - DALLAS

SECRET:

DocId: 32172571

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BONN

62-36

SECRET

stated that BUSkE had furniched, information allegedly

pertaining to operations and plans of the East German

Intelligence Service which information was regarded as

being fantastic and resulted in BUSKE's name being added

to a warning list of persons regarded as unrellable

information peddlers. (S)

me Bev's reference to Busk's data on the Bast

Intelligence Service appears to refer to the comment

made by BUSKE in the second paragraph of his letter to the

Attorney General dated May 6, 1964.

reliability is questionable.

requested to arrange for an interview of him to obtain

details of what he has to say

in a signed statement if possible.

and to get this information

They have also been

asked to provide the information which BUSKE furnished on

March 17,

1964.

SECRET

89-43-4462

DocId:32172571

Page 5

---

