# docid-32306099

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10289-10229

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-6054-2219

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, BU

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/22/1967

'PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

LCN, SACCO, JOHN CHARLES, OC, BURGLARY RING,

FENCING STOLEN PROPERTY, FISUR, RAID

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, NOTE

.r9.1

DocId: 32306099

32

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

-DATE:~11-11-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. &, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATION SET A

DE02 8 1967

TELETYPE

Vir. Tolson

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Mohr_

Bishop

Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Conrad

Mr. Felt.-

Mr. Gale_

Mr.

hose

Mr.

Mr.

Sullivan.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

T'ele. Room

• ss Holmes

Miss Gandy-

FBI WASH DC

FBI BUFFALO

733 PM URGENT 12/22/67 PJF

DIRECTOR

FROM BUFFALO (92-337)

conder

AS RESULT OF CONTINUED FBI INVESTIGATION OF LET BURGLARY

RING HEADED BY LON MEMBER JOHN SACCO AND FOLLOWING OUR RAID OF - DEC-

EMBER FIVE LAST IN

WHICH OVER ONE HUNDRED FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS

OF

STOLEN FURS WERE RECOVERED AN ADDITIONAL TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS

OF STOLEN: PROPERTY RECOVERED TODAY IN RAID BY LOCAL AUTHORITIES ON RES-

IDENCE OF STEPHEN GIARDINA, THREE ONE FIVE AUBURN STREET, BUFFALO,

NoY.. RECOVERED ITEMS INCLUDED STOLEN SILVERWARE, FURS, CIGARETTES AND

ANTIQUES.." GIARDINA IS CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF SACCO AND A BUFFALO CITY

EMPLOYEE.

ON NIGHT OF NOVEMBER SIXTEEN-SEVENTEEN LAST EXCLUSIVE PITI• PETRIE

STORE BUFFALO BURGLARIZED AND FIFTY TWO, THOUSAND DOLLARS OF SILVERWARE

STOLEN.

T-1171

REC 27 92-60542919

ON NOVEMBER

IWENTYNINE LAST PEI HARRISON I. GALLAGHER IDENTIFIED

RUSSELL DE CICCO AND GREGORY JAMES PARNESS AS SUBJECIS IN BURGLARY

SACCO IDENTIFIED BY PCI AS RECEIVER.

END PAGE ONEXEROX

89 DEC 29 1967

MR. DELOACH FOR THE DIRECTOR

DEC 1967

DocId: 32306099 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

_DATE: 11-14-2017

• .

PAGE TWO

MY TEL OF TWELVE FIVE LAST REPORTED INVOLVEMENT OF SAME INDIVIDUALS

IN THEFT AND RECEIVING OF OVER ONE HUNDRED FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS OF

STOLEN FURS WHICH WERE RECOVERED IN RAID THAT DATE BY BUAGENTS AND

LOCAL POLICE.

TOP ECHELON INFORMANI BU THREE ZERO FIVE - C - TE HAS MAINTAINED

CONTINUOUS DAILY CONTACI WITH SACCO AND'INFORMANI ADVISED THAI AS RESULT

OF RAID IN WHICH FURS RECOVERED AND FEAR OF DISCOVERY SACCO AND ASSOCI-

ATES CONSOLIDATED NUMEROUS STOLEN ITEMS IN THEIR POSSESSION AT THREE ONE

FIVE AUBURN STREET LOCATION.

FISUR BY BUAGENTS ON IWELVE TWELVE LAST SHOWED SACCO AND IRUCK

Phosical suarerinated

GOING TO ABOVE ADDRESS.

RUCK DETERMINED TO HAVE BEEN RENTED UNDER

ASSUMED NAME PROBABLY BY SACCO.

SINCE NO APPARENT FEDERAL VIOLATION INVOLVED INFORMATION DISSEMI-

NATED TO NYSP AND BUFFALO PD. BASED ON ABOVE STATE POLICE OBTAINED

SEARCH WARRANT FOR AUBURN STREET RESIDENCE.

IN RAID TODAY OBSERVED BY BUAGENTS, POLICE RECOVERED LOOI FROM AI

LEASI SIX LOCAL MAJOR BURGLARIES, INCLUDING A FULL LENGTH CHINCHILLA

FUR COAT VALUED AT TWELVE THOUSAND DOLLARS AND ANTIQUES STOLEN FROM

GABRIEL CARDELL. CARDELL IS AN ASSOCIATE OF DE CICCO AND SUSPECT IN

THE DUPONI ROBBERY. NO ARRESTS MADE SINCE GIARDINA OUT OF TOWN.

• END PAGE TWO

DocId: 32306099 Page 3

---

