# docid-32292819

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 747 Usc 2107 Totey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10210-10095

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-2492-

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/04/1974

• 4

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, RES, TRA, ASSOC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

1B; 1C; 4

Redact

05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292819

367

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kenedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Ho

DATE :

11-14-2017

OPTIONAL. FORM NO. 10

MAY,1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR): 101-11.5

*UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

1. Memorandum

5,

SEE

IVERSE

SIDE

CLASSi

FICATION

ACTI

TO

FROM

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

(GN

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (92-13) (P)

APPROPAT Aön 78-4-74

AND FITED

JOVISED BY

PEIS

SLIP (S

DATE

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL M.

CARTED

GIANCANA, aka

19-04-81

Re my airtel 10-31-74.U

REASON-FCIM IT

DATE OF REVIEW

It is

not considered that

the following shoulg be

reported for dissemination since it is contradictory and am

speculative.

However, it is being listed under a caption

for reference purposes. U

BASIS FOR SUBJECT'S DEPORTATION FROM MEXICO

(Information 8-30-74 from eX 301; who advised he

Ol

got this information from various sources within the

ED BY:

contacts.)

The order for the arrest and informal deportation

of subject came directly from MARIQ MOYA PALENCIA, the

Secretary of Government (Gobernacion) and the top cabinet

official. There was some speculation that the Mexican

President, LUIS ECHEVERRIA ALVAREZ, himself gave the order

and then departed Mexico so as not

to be around when it was

carried out.

However, the most likely possibility is that

MOYA PALENCIA gave the order after the presence of GIANCANA

in Mexico was brought to the attention of the Mexican

Government by unidentified but highly influential people in

order to avoid any embarrassment by allowing him to remain

in Mexico after his presence. was officially known.

Agents

from Gobernacion were sent to Cuernavaca to confirm subject's

presence there before taking any action.

The agents were

from the Immigration Inspection Section and were cautioned

not to take any deportation action:

until further instructions

were received from above.

were issued, apparently by

the selan truct ions rubes antly

MOYA PALENCIA himself

Bureau

EX-10J

REC-38

49

1- Foreign Liaison

unt t) 10/00H4

- Chicago 92-3491)fd vic

1 -

Mexico City

RSC: ffs

(6)

550

5

7NOV 2 1 1974

2CL

OUTING SLIP

AND FIELD

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan \P- (5o. (5)

DocId: 32292819 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kehnedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE:: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

Subject en route tried to offer money to secure

his release.

He was taken to the Offices of Mexican

Immigration

in Mexico City and asked for his tourist

card or passport and how he entered the country. He had

no papers or documents and said that he flew in from

Laredo, Texas, but they were unable to find any record

of this. Since he had no papers and apparently was

illegally in Mexico, it was decided to report just that he.

nude Not and tis deportation was arranged on the tale

Source was certain that subject's attorney, CASTILLO,

was in Mexico City at the

time but was unable to do anything

to stop the deportation. (du)

(Information from. CS MEX 287; on 8-22-74 and 10-2 and

10-22-740)

Subject's deportation from Mexico was the source of

considerable comment and speculation on the part of acquaintances

in Mexico such as the card and golf playing group around

his Mexican attorney, JORGE CASTILLO. Reportedly CASTILLO

claims that he was not in Mexico at the time of the deportation

and that if he had been in Mexico he could have averted it.

The speculation was that subject would still have been

forced to leave Mexico but could have chosen a destination

other than

the United States, such as Paris.

There were

two further fields of speculation concerning the deportation.

One is to the effect that the failure of CASTILLO or his

associates to avert this action must have the effect of

putting CASTILLO in very bad graces with the subject who has

undoubtedly been paying him a substantial retainer.

A

second speculation is to the effect that CASTILLO himself

may have arranged for this action because subject's presence

in Mexico was a cause of embarrassment to CASTILLO, who

has a number of wealthy and important clients and whose

business largely depends on good contacts within the Mexican

Government.

Shortly before deportation one of CASTILLO'S

children married the son of a high governmental official and

there was a huge reception at the Churubusco Golf Club.

Subject reportedly was in attendance and his presence there

was commented by other guests.

In spite of this, CASTILLO

reportedly has spoken about holding a big celebration to wel-

come the subject

should he return to Mexico.

There was ab

comment that the deportation received surprisingly little y

3

DocId: 32292819 Page 3

---

