# docid-32300802

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10277-10137

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-401762-132

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

LEG, LO

DATE:

12/05/1966

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

RCF, SHF, BKG, TRA, RES, EMP, POLIT AND SUBV ACT, CP,

DESCR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32300802

99

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassinat

Ton Records Colleution Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

INFORMADION

CONTAINEL

: BO

d'olson

DeLoach

Mohr

Vick

casper

allahon

onrad

elt

sen

Clivan

itter

e. Room.

mes -

dy

Legat, London (100-1695) (100-2198)

(Director, TBI (100-401762) (100-339233)

12/5/66

1 - Mr. Wagoner

4.1

RICHARD CYRIL FRANK

SUSAN HEILIGAM FRANK

7S - CH

Hard

ReBulet to Legat, London, dated 11/14/66 concerning

Chicoin, no copies furnished New York.

Enclosed for each recipient are two copies of a

207S/

letterhead memorandum prepared at Bureau setting forth back-

ground data, descriptive information and a summary of subjects'

Tra

activities primarily deling with their foreign travel.

Legat, London,

furnish original of memorandum to

Mr. Alex M. MacDonald, head of D Branch, British Security

Service (MI-5), making reference to his discussion with Bureau

representatives regarding Chinese matters. If you feel

MacDonald would not be aware of the results of

prior coverage

afforded subjects by MI-S, consideration should be given to

furnishing him copies of communications previously furnished

by MI-5 setting forth this data.

Photographs of subjects,

11 not previously furnished to MI-5, should also be given

to

LacDonald.S

17: 20 COPY AND COPT OF

URKECONDED COPY FILED IN

For

Mr. MacDonald

information New York, during November, 1966,

visited Bureau Headquarters.

Bureau representa-

tives advised him of the FBI's interest in affording extensive

coverage to subjects during any forthcoming visits to England.

Nr. MacDonald requested he be furnished a summary of their

background and activities.

(S)

Enclosures - 2

REG $S /60 - 411762-132

2 - New York (Enclosures - 2) (100-107383; 100-42479)

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit

(Route through for review)

JRW: dut : er

(9)

DEC

6 1966

MAILED 4

ĐBEC 1966

COMMERT 19

ECREM

RDO

16104

Classified by

SPOMAC/GCL

Declassify on DADA GEK)

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT L

DocId: 32300802

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (4 USC 2107 unter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

8.

ATL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HARDIN IS UUCLASSIFIED

"CIA HAS NO DEJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR,

IN THAS DO CM 9.3097

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

SLD|KSR 10-497 RECHAND CINIL FRANK

(JFK) SUSAN DILIGAY FRANE

1 - Mr. Wagoner

Deccabor 5, 1906

HISE

EXCE!

0578a

Subjocco, hugband and vito, besido at 230 Chziptophes

Strcet»

Hon 1o0

Susan Froli cladno to bo a reg

lance writes, ond hor huswand,.

a cameran and writer who has

worked tn the past to the coleviaton industry.

Susan Tank was reported. to be a menbes of the

Then 09 10te 89 649

and incornation vas ob

cained no, coting onunist Party membership on the part of

hop trusband En 1957.

They ate known' to currently associate

pich Conunist Party nonbors; bowevery

ne of 2903%

Susan Fronts

Poling. Coversment by a

U20u 280

0s of cind of the: Conuntec Party,

Szogusal, contact

and

publishers

brocertiustet neuspaper;

"China Dally Novel

she has

soportedly wicton artieres for "Challenge" the publication:

o. the Progressive

tabor Party undes the paeudonyn of Lagn

Armande

They travoled

to Fed China ta 1959 there they worsed

ten the english-longuago odition of the "pollug, Bowlenn fos

about too vento, moy Vested the Soviot anion prio to

chels rotuza

to the: Do So. 17: 1902:

D0GE 302001220092

Subscquons to theta seturn,

In Auguse of 2963, Burn Mant vao reportoa to

in possercion of several nova rolensen from Doinua News Agoncy,

76 Chancozy: Sane, London, England:

Dichard Trank was neported

to bo/ In poocess1o of an addreas book setting lorth the

follening:

GEL

(FE)

41/16/94

Classified by -

Declassiy on.

T'olson

DeLoach

Mohr

Wick

Casper

Callahan

Conrad -

Rosen

jullivan.

javel.

rotter

ele. Room.

olmes

andy .

London 012, on ding-chou,

Epeceins, 8 89: 3604, 0 0 0051 ×370."*

30 april, 1060, o confidential source abroad provided

Internatuon snitcating the above could roder to. (e)

Saw date (8)

Foreign Liaison Unit (route through for review)

100

• SEE NOTE PAGE FIVE

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT L

ENCLOSURE!

1 gour

DocId: 32300802

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Releaséd under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (J1 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

SecRaT

RICHARD CIRIL FRANK

Jack Perry of the London Export Corporation

which supports the expansion of

trade with China.

2.

Tong-Ming Chao (0781/2494/3564), who at one

time edited the "China Daily News," and was regarded by

the Communist Party, USA, as a specialist in Far Eastern

affairs.

Vice Chairman of the Editorial

the Chind

Peace Committee

and the World Peace Congress.

3. Israel Ipstein, an editor of "China Reconstructs.

In April, 1963, Susan Frank was reported to have

been contacted by an individual believed to be identionl

with Tang-Ming Chao referred to above.

The purpose of the

contact was to extend an invitation to the subjects to

return to China, and/or to recommend people who would be

willing to travel to and work for China.

During September, 1963,

the subjects attempted to

contact Peggy Pinckherd, 3 Heathview, Gordon House Road,

London, England, with respect to their intended arrival

in

London.

A confidential source abroad advised that Peggy

Pinckhord was probably identical with Margaret Mary Joan

Agnes Pinckheard, a fairly long-standing member of the

Communist Party of Britain who visited Communist China in

1952•

She has been active in the Britain-China Friendship

Association since that time. 5)

In September, 1963, information was received

indicating subjects were planning to travel to London.

While Susan Frank did not moke the trip, her husband did

and was apparently in London during the period September 13,

1963, to October 5, 1963.

Richard Frank left New York City on lay 4, 1964.

Various confidential sources abroad have advised that on

Way 5, he transited Milan, Italy, arriving in Geneva,

Switzerland, on May 6,

where he resided at the Hotel

Victoria

the Hotel du Jet d'Tau until May 14.

He was in Paris on

Way 17, and returned to the U. S. via Canada on May 19.

The

sources were unable to report

any significant information

regarding his activities while abroad. (5)

SECRET

- 2

106-401762-132

DocId: 32300802

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

RICHARD CYRIL. FRANK

On August 12, 1064, Susan Frank arrived in Milan,

Italy;

from New York City, according to a confidential

source

abroads) She returned to New Vork on August 26, 1064,

indicating to an associate she had boen visiting her father

in New Jersoy.

thile no information was developed regarding

her acelvities on this trip, the following should be

notod:

Another goverment agoney, which conducts intellie

gence investigations, advised that fron August 10, 1964 to

August 26, 1064, a convocation of 150 pro-Chinese

conmunists

from throughout

the world was hold in Albania.

The purpose

of thie meeting was the formation of an international

communist novement

in support of the Chinese conmunists. #jul

On June 26, 1965, Susan Irank departed tho U. 9.

for Algers, Algerta, via Farte, returning

• to the U. 8,

fron Paris on July 9,

1965, Mrs, Beryl Epton, wife of

William Eipton, apparently accompanied Susan Frank on thie

trip.

Willtan Eoton is the Vice Prosident of

the Progressive

Labor Party in the U. So, who,

on January 27, 1966, was

sentenced to one year in prison, having been

convicted of

criminal anarchy and conspiracy

• to overthrow the government

of New Yoris State,

The purpose of Susan Frank's trip was to cover an

Atrican-aian conterence in Algiers for the "Monthly Review,"

an independent social magazine published in New York Clty.

Alter her return to the U. S, she contended she had spent

some time

in London, tingland,

On January

- 1966, Susan Frank departed the U.S.

en route to London,

A confidential source abrond reported

that she departed London on January 25, 1906.

During her

stay in Ingland, she was in contact with the Campaign

Against factal Discrimination requesting ite members to

send protosts te the layor of New York rogardine the trin]

of W11ltam Epton SA source of abother governmental agency:

which conducts intelligence investigations, reported subjeet

may have been in contact with William Ash and other individuals

involved in the Society

for Anglo-Chinese Understanding, a

smirish organisacion whach seeks to promote txiendship an

contacts with Communist

China. To d

This some source furnished information indicating

she was

in

Brussels, Belgium, on January 26, 1906, using

the name

of Isa

Among other individuals, she

daco

*8

100-401762-13320

DocId: 32300802

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mpte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

0.0

SECRET

RICHARD CYRIL FRANK

NOTE:

Memorandum classified "Secret" since it sets forth

data the unauthorized disclosure of which could cause serious

damage to the national defense, and further, it sets forth data

obtained from

C1 1-S which was so classified.

captioned

See cover letter to Legat, London, dated 12-5-66,

"Richard Cyril Frank, Susan Heilignan Frank; IS - China"

prepared by JRVednt.

SECRET

- 5-

100-401762-832

DocId: 32300802 Page 6

---

