# docid-32287059

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10196-10335

RECORD SERIES :

HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-9-1107

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/01/1962

5

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

THP, SURVEILLANCE, ACT, GAL, ASSOC -

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1B

Redact

11/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32287059

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Mover.

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-143 (12-28-60)

OPTIONAL FORA NO, 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO'

DIRECTOR, PET (Duro SECRET

JUNE

DATE:

CONHLENTIAL

11/1/62

5T

FROM

CHICAGO (92-350 Sub D)

ATT. INTODMATTOS CONTAINED

HORREN

WERERS SMONN OTHERWISE.

SUBJECT:

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

N-0194

Re my FD-143 dated 8/2162:

Classified by ses ue

Declassik on: 00g

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

CHICAGO DIVISION

Character of Case

A-R

4.297

Field Office

Chicago

XCONT. WeT:

Symbol Number

CG 6546-C*

GASSMCOBY 5648.50/KSR

Type of Surveillance: Technical or

Microphone)

Microphone

DECI

IpK)

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

Celano Custom Tailors, meeting place of Chicago Top Hoodlums

2.

Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area.:

covered:

620 North Michigan Avenue

Chicago, Lino

Illinois; 2nd floor fitting room

3.

Location of monitoring plant:

(Chicago Office]

62-9-9-

4.

Datés'of initial

authorization and installation.

3/16/62;

authorization

5.

4/15/62; installation X 118 18 NOVE

1962

Previous and other installations on the same subject (with

dates

Celano Custom Tailors,

620 N. Michigan Ave.,

5/29/62

Armory Lounge, 7427W. Roosevelt Rd., Forest Park, Ill

Regular Democratic Organization, First Ward, 100 North

La Salle, 10/62

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

Not applicabl ine utilized? i:

Is a trunk

J8/61

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

c.

Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone?

(1) - Bureau (RM)

1 - Chicago

WFR: BJD (2)

ee Nate

11/3,

Greet era me n62

STREN

A CONEIDENTIAL

DocId: 32287059 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

SECRET

If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One microphone unit installed behind baseboard of pillar in

Celano's fitting room.

8.

Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

No.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

See attached.

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No.

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None for same coverage.

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No.

13. As asquest for the surveillance by cutside agenoy (give nane, title and

No.

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

b. Give total number of other surveillancés monitored at same plant.

Six other surveillances and 13 other lines.

SECRET

- 2-

CONFIDIXTIAO

DocId: 32287059 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

c. If any others, set out the proportionate cost of

instant surveillance:

SECREI

15. Cost of Leased Line for instant installation?

None.

16. Personnel Costs:

a. Give total number of special employees and/or Special Agents

working at plant and total salary costs.

21 no at

5 Special Employees

$39,265.00 per annum

1 Special Agent

11,935.00 per annum

(CP only)

4 Special Agents

34,850.00 per annum

(Polish

only)

b. Total number of man hours per week spent at plant?

5 Special Employees - 200 hrs. or 100% of total work week

1 Special Agent

-

75% of total work

week

4 Special Agents

- 120 hrs. or 775% of total work weer

c. If other installations monitored

same plant, list

proportionate number of man hours per week spent on

instant surveillance:

CG 6546-C* - 23 hours per week

d. If other installations monitored at same plant, list

proportionate salary expense per annum for instant

surveillance:

CG 6546-C* - $4,319.15

17. Remarks (By SAC):

This surveillance will be continued for a 20 day

period VACB.

SECRET

- 3 -

DocId: 32287059 Page 4

---

