# docid-32337922

## Page 1

| Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

4/17/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90139-10049

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 109-12-210-3089

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/16/1961

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

POLITICAL MATTERS CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32337922

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colledtion Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

105-1747

CONFI

SECRET

ENTIAL

ALL, INFORMATION CONTAINED

HAPLIN IS INCLASSIFICD EXCEPI

WHERE SHOWA CINERWISE

Miami, Florida

MAY 1 6 1961

me/ 95 568

Classis

Declassity on: DAD

Classmen Hu 2803RD0L

Declass

132625468540o2

Re: foreign POlitical Matters - Guba,/13/91

726/98-П6K

CLASSIMED BY 5768-520 d

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (1)

MM T•1,

with whom no

previous contact has

been had, but who

has had close

with

castro government o1ticial8

the following information on May

1961 to a Special

Agent of the FBI:

Description of Raul Roa

Cuban Secretary of State Raul Roa

is. an

Idealist, with deep-rooted compleres, but is not a

Commmist. He closes his eyes and mind to what he

does not want to see, or take cognizance of. Just

before departing for his January, 1961, appearance

before the United Nations Security Council, he stated

Russian Intelligence had informed the Cuban govern

ment that the United States intended to attack Cuba

and change its government before January 20, 1961,

that outgoing President Eisenhower would not leave

this problen to tacoming Prestient Kemedy for solution ())(U)

Source recalled that students used to tease

Roa when he was a professor at the university, by tell-

ing him he should run for president, and Rod actually

belleved the students were serious, and still dreams

that he may be president.

CONT DENTIAL

1:9.1:

SECRET

2%::

3049

FONTEROX,

JUN 13 1961

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32337922 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

DATE: 11-14-2017°

OT 1992 199 050

Re: Foreign Political Matters - Cuba

SECRET

CONFISENTIAL

is considered by source to be a strong possibility that

he will be maintained there to "further his education"

and to help assure that Roa does not get out of line.

Role of Russian, Crech, and Chinese Techmicians >

Source had no indication that any Russian,

Chinese, or Crech technicians actually participated

in firing the guns in the recent invasion; but they

were very close by, directing the movement of artillery

and

personnel. He stated he understood the Cubang

achieved good hits on the anti-Castro planes because

mated he

the antiaircraft guns automatically sight in by a

radar

screen mounted on the gun itself, but he stated

he is no military man and knows.

nothing about this

by first hand observance. (lEW)

After additional reflection, source furnished

the following details on May 11, 1961:

Passports and Selection of Cuban Foreign Service

Intelligence Personnel

(S)

Special passports are issued. to Cuban agents

generally, but this is not a conclusive test; some may

carry diplomatic passports. Also, special passports

are issued to purchasers, or representatives sent abroad

on commercial missions, and the usual "Cuban friendship

deal," wherein special passports are issued to personal

friends of high government officials in order to expedite

obtaining a visa from the country it is desired to visit,

and give the bearer a certain

segree of real or imagined

Importance and protection. (R

ou redday following the end of the lavasion

in Cuba, which source belleved was April 21, 1961, 06

• 5 .

CONSIDENTAL SECRET

DocId: 32337922 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the

John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hot

DATE: 11-14-2017

Re: Foreign Political Matters • Cuba

CONFIEN

ENTAL

SECREL

one Calcines

Party

first name unknown, who is a Cuban Comunist

Deputy

working out of

She Ministry of State, went

to Mexico City on

the Cubana

plane which arrives there

at about noons He

and source believes

carted & spectal cuten passet cute

he lis engaged in intelligence

activities. (S)source described him as about thirty eight

years of aBe, 5 feet 9 Inches tall, over 200 pounds, dAPHuR/923

very fat, large, round face, and dark complexion. He

stated the Cuban Embassy in Mexico is the busiest of

all Cuban Embassies, as propaganda

is prepared there

Ior all of Latin America. (1

There is an acute

problem in the selection

of persomel for foreign posts, both from the stand.

point of loyalty, and also plain lack of discretion,

due to Cuban loquaciousness. The personnel for foreign

posts are being carefully selected and screened by

members of the Communist Party, who are themselves

carefully selected through the aid

of Russian technicians,

to avoid defections by the Cubans. All those selected

finally are interviewed by a

Russian who speaks very

poor Spanish, name unknown

1 to source. A (u)

MM Tol does not feel that Cuban propaganda

efforts. in Latin America are financed by Russia. There

have been indications that the Russians do not even

approve of the Cuban methods. The Russians have advised

the Cubans on several occasions that they are pushing

too fast, and to be more subtle and less violent and

open

In their propaganda efforts A (u)

Youth Education Progran

From 1,000 to 2,000 Cuban youths from eighteen

to twenty-two years of age have been sent to Czechoslovakia

and. Russia.

Some have returned, disgusted, and deploring

• 6 .

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

DocId: 32337922 Page 4

---

