# docid-32302225

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10280-10162

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 66-2542-11-46-67

Released under the John

Records

Collection Act of 1992

1144 USC 2107 Note.

Case#:NW 45776 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, SD

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/18/1969

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

JCEX, ASSOC, RANCHO LA COSTA, BKG, RES, LCN, JRO, SGI,

JFK., TELCAL, REL

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45776

DocId: 32302225

Page

---

## Page 2

SD 137-1329

SD 1064 continued to furnish detailed Information

regarding the FRANKIE VELOTTA burglary gang and the

FREDDIE SICA gang operating out of

the Los Angeles area.

He also made

contact with AL GLAZER and

reported on his current activities in international

confidence schemes.

During the past month, he also reported

on contacts with hoodlums and ICN members in the

Northern California area such as ICN member ANGELO

MARINO, ABE CHAPMAN and BILI ETTLEMAN.

This informant is also furnishing valuable

criminal intelligence information received from

Cleveland ICN member LEÖ MOCERI regarding thé activities

of the Cleveland and Buffalo ICN families.

Meetings were held with SD 1111-C-TE.

He reported on the return from Italy of SALVATORE

LO MEDICO, as well

LO MEDICO

FRANK COPPOLA In Rome as well as his brother Italian

ICN subject VITO LO MEDICO.

This informant reports

that SAL is attempting to arrange for a visa for his

brother, VITO LO MEDICO, to visit him in San Diego

(VITO's son resides in this area and was adopted by

SAL). This informant also reported on the recent

visit of Detroit ICN underboss JOHN PRIZIOLA to San

Diego, where he visited his sons-in-law, JOE and

FRANK MATRANGA.

He held a meeting with PRIZIOLA

and learned

that PRIZIOLA will return here on about

He furnished information concerning

February I cal investment In this area in the construction

PRIZIOLA'S

of several apartment houses.

informant also reported on local ICN

subject FRANK BOMPONSIERO, as weil as the MArRANdA

brother's and the LI MANDRI family, two of whom are

ICN members.

SD 1062-C-TE was contacted on 10/14/69, and

-3 -

45776

DocId: 32302225 Pagé 2

---

## Page 3

SD 137-1329

continued to

furnish excellent information on local

bookmaking activities. : He continued to furnish infor-

mation regarding Los Angeles area hoodlum ANDY LOCOCO

making large lay off wagers at the Del Mar track through

his brother-in-law,

JOHNNY CARDINEL.

This iformant also

described the method in which

aregetting the gambling

"Ine" the local bookmakers

on sporting events,

as well as the odds on horse races.

SD 1120-PC is a local contractor who moved

here from the Detroit area several years ago. He

is now in partnershi with Detroit ICN underboss PRIZIOLA

in building several apartment houses in the San Diego

area.

He continued to furnish inside information

concerning PRIZIOLA's investments in this area and

their plans to construct additional apartment houses.

They are now attempting to sell two apartment houses

on which they recently. completed construction.

SD: 1130-PC was contacted in nearby Tijuana,

B.C., Mexico, and continued to furnish current infor-.

mation concerning deported ICN subject JASPERE

MATRANGA.

SD 1140-PC was contacted on 10/31/69. He

continues to maintain contact with Chicago ICN

capo

FRANK LA PORTE. He reports that LA PORTE is con-

siderably upset over the publicity he received in

Look Magazine's article on San Francisco Mayor JOE

ALIOTO being connected with LCN mobsters.

This informant also reported on the troubles

JOHN S, ALESSIO is having at the Caliente race track

as a result of "Operation

" the

border check crack down by U.S. Customs.

narcotics

He also reported on the expansion of IRVING

KAHN, front man for the Teamsters in this area, as

well as reporting on his contacts with local ICN

member FRANK BOMPENSIERO, who is now traveling in

this area with Cleveland

IN hoodlum LEO MOCERI.

- 4 -

HH 45776 DooId:32302225 Padé 3

---

## Page 4

SD 137-1329

SD 1145-PC, an ICN member, was contacted

and reported on his meetings with local ICN subject

LEO DIA, and that DIA Is resentful of the Los Angeles

ICN family leadership cut in or

his vending machine

business.

SD 1149-PC furnished excellent information

concerning the Colony House in nearby Chula Vista

California, being used as a meeting place by hoodlums

involved in narcotics,

prostitution, and gambling.

He also maintained contact with the

MATRANGA brothers

and reported on their attempts to get their State

Liquor License reinstated.

This informant also

continued to furnish valuable information concerning

NATE ROSENBERG, one of the leading hoodlums in the

San Diego area.

He also furnished

pertinent information

on JOHN S. ALESSIO, as well as ICN subject LEO DIA.

SD 1137-PC was contacted on 11/10/69, and

furnished information concerning narcotics and

gambling in the Negro area.

He also reported on

local hoodlum CHARLIE PEPITONE's expansion In the

nightcub and vending machine business in San Diego.

SD 1182-C-TE was contacted on 10/17/69,

and continued to furnish excellent information on

illegal gambling involving Negro subjects.

SD 1234-PC was contacted on 10/1/69, and

furnished information on hoodlums NATE ROSENBERG,

MICKEY CANDELLA, and gamblers JOHN SPATAFORE and

MAXWELL "Tex"

COOK.

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

SAN DIEGO DIVISION

I. Organized Crime

Akron, Ohio, ICN hoodlum

LEO MOCERI arrived

-5-

NH 45776

DocId: 32302225 Padé 1

---

