# docid-32205476

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2016

AGENCY:

NARA

RECORD NUMBER :

176-10010-10076

RECORD SERIES :

NSF

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

DOS

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

SUMMARY OF POINTS...

DATE: 07/10/1963

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

CASTRO, FIDEL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS:

1C

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/23/1993

OPENING CRITERIA: UPON AGENCY REVIEW

COMMENTS: NSF:CO:Cuba, General, 7/63:Box 39

v9.1

HH 49061 DocId: 32205476

Page 1

---

## Page 2

STATIC COPY

summary of pointo mada by Drafidel Castro ot

lunch at thơ British inbig ByaResi doncon Havane

on vuLy lor: 1963

Relationd with tho United Kinedom

When the

Ambassador

mont loned Castro o.roforencos to

hic, readincos

to discuso

componsation

1mora to bard that thin

for

expronriated

castro took the point at

immediatcly said

'once"

and dea

anniled to Britich proberty alco.

He would likc to

soc a realiotio agreement with us over thia

related to cuba's canacity to pay.

The gication of

railway pensioners and other personal coace might also bo

Considered

No vould also l1ke to aco oxpansion In trado.

ils rocosntzed, thrt the balance of trage ly thi tho United

Kingdom the ot

presents in

CubalD tayour but thore had done-

times beon difficultice over, coons

which Cuba wanted to buy in

Britaine

A contract to buy six bulidozera fors notence, had

fallen through

presumably

for political reason, There naoy

another

case whera Cuba had vanted to buy machinery for a

factory, but round that it could not be brought into oporation

becauge very small part, or Americon manufacture

could no

be supplied. Porhoro all

theod problems could: 29.

discussed

together

Inovitably,

1n the carly days of the Revolution

there had been excesseo but

they had

On21009

now

advancod beyond this

L Prove that th

Cuban Ravo lutionary

rovernment

Word

could bentrustedan

2

made

He now

real

sed that the Revolutioniry Govornment had

a miotalo

• 1n tho past by failing to

cultivato close

relationg with the

Yestern missions.

He was anxious to put

this right.

He

was sorry that sir Herbort Marchant was now

Leaving Cuba but ho hoped that ho would bo able to have the

forward:

to working with hin for Improvedierclat tona botveon

Cuba and Brital

Rolationg with tilo Unitod Staice

3 0,

Tho

American ban

tha

Unitod

but

Amer

they

ng

mor can measures reezine cuban asuata tr

ana

iting financial transactiong botucen

and

ba

MerO

Importhnce-

1д9L1

1021

alente dance.

economically

They shoved that the

611

bont

on a coursa

Oichoatility and

tapro wore countleso oxamples ot

thrain tha

arrangenents for the delivery of medical supplies in exchango

or tho release

they had triod to go

un laterally on ho agroconto and had delayed the bretvalos

the last ohip load.

added that

3i0 million worth of

the

ot ll outetanding.

Amor i can

lloy toverds cuba lad bocn

the

thotr on reputation their

rosen hostility f

for

throughout

examplo

• Latin

unted State rod ac

Amari

encouragement

of

successon, oi

damaged

nd

ncreased

the

• done

Cuban

revo

It 10r

removing

froy Cuba

the

80C

ial olaos

51th

tlie

fortun

meagured

Rusalana

tOi

to

era

Lothor

Gymenthy

590

MOLO

Cou

ÖIK

828

ire

ohi

pe

can

nad

cong

obli&ed

tho1

OWni

march

10ot

disadvantage

countr100.

Sono 1280

chi pa were now boing

CHET DENT

DECLASSIFIED.

ÉO 12958, Sec: 3.6

NIK 01 45A

HH

49061

Doc

Page

---

## Page 3

VUIL

ELECTROSTATIC COPY

CONT DE INTAT

Sound navie

Ital

and

Konnety

2C0N0

outst woe difficult

Voluo tig

so sonablo utta ancea

donorator cuba

Dano

Phon they

moro so often often

con radiotory and bellicode stato-

It wao no, uáo kennedy douplatring bout the Borlin

wall when ho the grectior has own wall around Cuba.

68857

buba and the United Staton were

aptor alt,

an the

sado planos and

It was abdura hot thes should not live

torothon on

i Thoro mao no roason wis

Cuss should

inVO

cho same,

Unltod Statondo

hc o

with canada lor

Kennody

WoS

Ox.

course

und o

and tho

KNO!

Dre

80

bocure

The

Internally

min

and

that

any

14c50061on

sho

greuplaPreeident

uro

§rom Congrodo

thế

revolution

870k

outsido

Con

101r

United

hô

Cuban Quen

Dorson

would

NOMOTO

Congroas

utur

one

DIDLO

192

A10

nnody

DY:

had

truptritod hit

Dollar

otrikro

ant

Give calm

thou

port

10e0

to

nortal

NOW!

& rón

al1

10 00r10ud

head ho lind loot

Cubo

and

Tho

United

otondan.

th

the

Cộod

Fourd

10r

iron

that

eady

they

Endard

01

1ng

cooking verg

lost,

A dur taxe

vould take

Tasin Anortoa

8

mOOt

00112160)

tho

and

tho

power

oy force

10Y

would loax

Indo china

and

anower.

sore than

condo.

ed

Haron Latin Anerico

oxporto. 0i

1 Noxico

and

CLOW

Socano

Uruguay

Dochope oven Poru,

dere

Berton

chis noo

MG

Shor

061204

change

set did

49061

Doc

Page

---

## Page 4

DETERIORATING COPY REPLACED BY ;

ELECTROSTATIC COPY

CONFIDENT I AL

chingo being achlevad poacerally through electionds. On sthe

othon hand arcontina

Venozuolatand Paraguay

stato of total instability

were Ina

Rovolution Lan these

countx 108

was thovi tablo within vearg rathor

than months.

rather than decades.

The popition In frazil, colunbia and

Ecuador was also precarious

1290

Tho revolutionary oituation in Latin

Ancrica as a whole

was duo to the economic and social conditiona of these

countries:

the disparity in wealth, lack of schools

housing and bedienl services, and go on.

Intellectunl and

professional closer, unlike those In North Angrien for

diapoach were donrossod and. Impoverialed and

cowardo revo

t104gc) Cubas

therelore

120 294

crestcusthia

situation.

.d.

serve ag an oxamples tho Angry cans

had contributed to

thots mintaken policy of open,

hoatiltty tovarad Cuba which had nor anca sympathy for the

Cuban revolution

and atolike of the Amoricensen People

naturally took the sider of David against Goliath.

20.

United states policy tovardo Latin America yao briocas

For instanco, whon Haya

de la orre came to Doror

1n Poru,

was hailed no tho schemically purel (a fevow to phrape

of

castro's representative tho rooponsible lora, domocrat

on tent on recognit ton of the nom

denlored by tha Stato

govornment delayeu 10r

a month

during which timo Botancourt In Venczucle'statea

"chemically pure liberal democrat enjoying United

anothor

support

shouted encouragonent fron the sidolins.

obvioudly becausenhe roared an Ancrican recoenition of a wee

milttary

ooup in pera would encourage

his own soldiers

Antonio tImo

„nowever

tho Fontaron the other focusrot American

Poroign policy,

aucocoded fin having

goyornmentirococnised.

11. Ruceta

end of hila

of acotatle onthusiaon

loworins his volcal to a tone of nyatreat ava. ma

roverence

Much or what

he said was

inctual and descriptive and repotitive or

he hao alroiy said publicly in hia seoched.

what

12.

byerywhore he had sonen Ruggia, he had found an

antonioning dogreci on intoront in cuba and an enthusiaon for

the cuban rovolut one

Ho mad boon arcatly lunroused by

ordinary Rüsolat

at ho lid notion hia journeya.

Thoy wero

about

OVO

nard

what

WO

1ng

for

hẹ

had

ace

the

difforon

whom

had

seened

but

he

d1d

Most

in ta pimp

he.

Ruscian lei

thing

NOT LOSO

Khrushchov

think clearly

hinsolep

the

peace

butanoro not panic.

atriolen

ofa

ROTO

WOrd

cont irant

anised:

He

con

with

mer

peoples

ng. no allovanco

tano

60

nany

of s

and na

red.

Un

ed S

ontrasted

too,

other band

сад z0u

but

nad

planty

101g

iro.

tO

orolgn visitors

süch

81h

ancountry l1ke the United

CONSIDENTLAL.

/States

---

## Page 5

ELECTROSTATIC COPY

CONFIDENT TALE

States there was auch concueton and condicting pressures

of all kinds

thor job 01 government under, nodern

conditions had becone impossiblo.

M111tery

to modern coulmment!

All the erma, suppLied byeche soviet unions

including

reconcly.delivercd@nadsocensprovided

free s

Cuba had had to my Cor Crech dupplies but much of

the

military coulment recoivod from them vas Rugnion, the

impitcation being thit

theoc had also been frec)e If Cuba

had bad to may for

miliberoupolios. or if they had had to

they chould have

phách Cuba nom hid

hereferred to enti eirerate miosiles, land-to-aco minstlos

would beneccosary

(Cuba ony do long ap, there to aythroat tron the Undica, statos.

105.

WhilonCuba was chtrenched gend

ready uncould not be

1n. 2457

13, on AMen L3

(ilo imolled

that this had

major Ceasefore:)

This woulakbo long enough foi

niernationa linacharacter and

ONS

risk

Cuban agion

tock

Were

now!

yewy

4000070

they had

developed

Incornation about troop movemente

tino

obtaining

0n

other olde, which would alvo thon warnin?

Vin the

noW

neard

1t

impossible for

arma

sechto

to bo insultintod

by

3011

virtually imposciolero

311'.

Countch royolutionary groups had been cloner out oi

Pinar dol R101

lovann and Matansas Provincos. evenin las

Villas oncy veronow very nuch reducedd

Cuban Economy

sugar

16,0

it was cconomic nongenso for

coun

comnodit100 ton

Malis ch

concattons

WOT

could only.bonroduced.auh.co

pricee

Do ch

houlds

concontra

notural and.

other conditione

production was

10w. ror Cuba

In Cuba foi

sugar productlon voic

bet

tablo that tho

market

Kamich

he

Cos trot

Cont

tions

clac

in the world.

Doct nugar in othe

CONBTI193

compete bocate tho.cout

of production was

much

Cubesthe profit trom an arca of

Land under

wo only about one carter of

under sugar /

Sugar

could proguce,

in the Soviet

bloc,

For h11

theoe roacon:

tho-Cuoon.Covarnmentrha.how..co.ng

to put ito major effort

into incrons ine sugar production. The rain oicholotner

Liveotment,

would be into this inauery

annual production

• ot

ning

Iton cons

the capacity tor

existing nugar mills

was

woon Trand 7u

n22lion

buc

como 0f tupdon could

leti

no sono

howkonco

would have

to be bullta

In tho

paster

Cuban

production had been

deliboga

ostricted

especially da top

the sudochpion of the

susan

oncor trinty

tabout

then ar

pliers hadialso bean a movento civonet suche,

CONS TOENATALI

/oconouy

HH 49061

DocId: 32205476

Page 5

---

## Page 6

LEKIUKATLNG

ELECTROSTATIC COPY SOR

CONFIDENTAL

The

Soviat bloc

though th

arcady

pina

poin

the

WOrC

dollars.

masket chich

they now had sinathe

802 C

Cag:

on

gen

no audience cuba conD

278

Much

research

01

cano

Hith

the

pur

being

done

on

Obot

plann

ho t

012

orent

arena

ould

na

a period

mont

23

Th

20

uct

on

NOA

C0SYa3

Rosoarch

vaster 08

imeo over

on

nechanizatzon

to

boing dong

tho

product ton

0a.110

18

there

were now

By loub11ng

the

Government hones

fov yoars

head

with 2ipcol2

87859

nimbor or cittle in a

Bankin

19:

respected

The bananaccounta

always

to

donca

innortantith

th»ix dongy in thie bankwas

defo and chlo sould

encoursec

beca

to savo

Industry

20.

It had beon

calcilated

Do con icient

provides chol

ponulat

.on.

WOI

era

o thor

thrown

out

dug

nder

corcote

210

when

осолоду

the cubaner

accordingly

they wou d

wor

not

merely

angs

50,000 ourplus

nosebeing divertod, to

Hocon

edu

about

cac ecoston incentives.

conce led

d010

no thought

004

18A1CA

NO POLO NG

POM

2:

2л9r4

SociAliat coonomy

could

shere: who

vary litile

erence

List

Monogoly

dor

potate

chem

th

1t.t01

ronsong

Impor vini

for

2014

23

100

of

one

10011214

DI

mana

NON-TROLY

1989

front

018

AD

tori

state enteror 13eo.

ed the sacare un actory in. Orlonto and

na mox

31

In a new Cuban run which would ba of boat

Bacardi

COXENDENTTAL

HH

49061

DocId:

32205476

Page

---

## Page 7

ELECTROSTATIC COPY 2ON

COS TORNATAS

produced

Puerto Rico. o

Roado

240

300%1.0

Orionte

CIO

new

10140

0fH1aD0W

perilcularly acolt

roads

vara more being congtrucice in

1 degunter

Tho

0551n5

car in the

COOTE

Thomp

250

Aol od wint

YOU

Gideon

Ch

thought

rot

11131

i22 ClL

mibaolute

ind Marxiut-

26

24

an

GOC

on Chit out intos

not baslo

10t101y

tho trentont nood

osteor

coilly

noc

So

nory wher

this

noblen hg ticing

ready

abo

shed

NUCY

that

NeXC

Cuba

about

litudy Ing

a nunset

i belining

691

he choan revolut

one to

ASY:

i0n

chie

C20

drugs ni

1N00D110

inc

internal

0000

o)noo

the y

hech

Pc

tabar

proved win

VO

tie,

tiTo

mao.

20

1,000

excepte

ot

no

HOL

ined

5210c

rodicod ton

ionary

0) 1

tion

ANOX 9 C

clonents ln

doolety

COSTS THREAT

HH

176

Pare st

---

