# docid-32294604

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10213-10380

RECORD_SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 2-2173-163

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. SJ

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 10/21/1976

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT:

CUBANA AIRLINES, CORU MEMBER, TRIP, MM, BOMBING, ACA, TERRORIST

ACT

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/14/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32291604 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2917

SEdRED

Memorandum to Mr. Ri. Gallagher

RE:

UNSUBS; BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINES

DC-8 NEAR BARBADOS, WEST INDIES,

OCTOBER 6, 1976; CHILBOM

Eon 10/26/76 Mr. William Leurs, Deputy Assistant

se retary on acted eye can at a department

Ricardo Morales Navarrete was not a source of this

Bureau and specifically he was not being paid by this

Bureau for his information! He was further advised

that our Legat in Caracas, SA Joseph S. Leo, has contact

with Mr. Navarrete in view of his position in DISIP

and in view of the legat's position in the Embassy. He

was also told that our Legat would consider Mr. Navarrete

a liaison contact with whom he has contact on almost

a daily basis.

Mr. Leurs stated

that in connection with the

proposal that the FBI send an Inspector to Caracas to

interview the Legat Joseph Leo and to review pertinent

files in the Legat's office, that the Ambassador in

Venezuela requested that a decision on this proposal

be delayed until wednesday. The Ambassador further

advised that things are still "very tight" in Venezuela

but by wednesday he thinks he will be able to give a

more positive recommendation concerning the proposal.

Mr. Leurs stated that he will advise the writer on

Wednesday concerning the Ambassador's recommendation.

The information concerning the sending of an Inspector

to. Caracas will be furnished to the Attorney General

separately. (4414)

ACTION:

For your information.

APPROVED:

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD Adm.

Dap. AD Inv..

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

-

2

Ext. Affairs.

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Inv....

Ident

Inssection

Intell

Laboratory...

Legal Coun...

Rec. Mgmt.

Spec. Inv..

Training..

DocId: 32294604 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 U5t 2107 Hote).

DABE: 13-11-2017

SECRE

PAGE THREE

SJ 2-72

COMHOSHI!

LONGER WILNG RE WITH CORU. AS IT STANDS NOW, THE ROUGH

DRAFTS FOR THE CORU BONDS INDICATE THE FIVE MEMBER "ACTION" GROUPS

WHOSE NAMES APPEAR ON THE FACE OF THE BOND. IT IS ANTICIPATED

THAT THE MONEY RECEIVED FROM THE SALE OF THESE BONDS WILL BE USED

TO FINANCE FUTURE CORU ACTIVITIES. * (M)

ADMINISTRATIVE:

CLASSIFIED BY 2072, XEDS 2, INDEFINITE.

BT

CC: INTELL. DIV.

SECRET

DocId: 32294604 Page 3

---

