# docid-32334708

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90118-10067

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2897-116

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/22/1959

PAGES:

44

SUBJECTS :

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

w9.1

NW 45922

DocId: 32334708

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

Repo..

PD-263 (5-12-40)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

DALT

TITLE OF CASE

HARRY RAY

etc.

Office of Origin

DALLAS

Date

9-22-59

Investigative Period

7/31 - 9/21/59

Report made by

#3285 Shelby Longe

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

WF #229;

CHARACTER OF CASE

"Nancy" Long,

UNLAWFUL FLIGHT TO AVOID PROSE-

Mrs. onelby long, Joyce Thompson,

etc.-

BUSEFITIVE, JINMIE LOUISE NORRIS, aKa.,

CUTION -

BURGLARY; ASSAULT WITH

A DANGEROUS WEAPON; HARBORING

Jimmie Louise Carlen, Rita Louise.

• Rita Louise Norris,

Typed By:

pm

Synopsisf

Approved

Copies made:

Title of this case is being marked changed to reflects 0

additional alias of SHELBY LONG used by subject POPE, at Shreveport,

Louisiana,

as ascertained by the New Orleans Office.

Title marked

changed to reflect additional aliases of Mrs. SHELBY LONG and

NANCY LONG used by subject FRYE at Shreveport, Louisiada,

ascertained by the New Orleans Office; also changed to show

additional alias of JOYCE THOMPSON as used by FRYE at Marshall,

Texas, in June, 1959, as ascertained by the Dallas Office.

to/show additional subject JIMMIE LOUISE

NORRIS and her known aliases.

REFERENCES

Report

of

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT, dated 8-8-59, at Dallas

El Paso telephone call

8-24-59. (Interoffice)

El Paso radiogram to Bureau,

Dallas teletype to Bureau and Phoenix,

8-25-59:

Dallas teletype to Bureau and El Paso,

8-26-59.

¿Dallas

telephone call to Midland Resident Agency,

El Paso Division,

18-20-59

(Interoffice)

Special Agent

Do not write in spaces below

In Charge

42

C- Bureau: (92-2897) (Encls. 3)

Fort

Worth

2

- Phoenix

(88-19321 (1-USA, Phoenix) (Info):

El Paso:(88-1671

-

1

New Obreans

(882829) (Info)

12 SEP 28 1959

- Dallas

(88-2749)

38 hu

* So

MCT - 41

REC- 96

EX 106

57 OCT 22 1959 F C+

"BI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which, loan

# U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1959 O- 344750

NW 45922 DocId: 32334708 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DI 88-2749

-C -

ENCLOSURES

.?. To Bureau - One disposition sheet each for subjects

POPE,

FRYE, and NORRIS.

LEADS

Information copies of this report are being furnished

Phoenix Office as process for POPE was originally obtained at

Phoenix.

One copy each being furnished the El Paso and New

Orleans Offices as those offices conducted extensive ivestiga-

tion in this matter.

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

he information that POPE was in West Texas wa

1ginally obtained by the El Paso Office from I

la former Dallas pimp, who is presently under develop-

ment by the El

Paso OffIce as a Pele

The El Paso Office has

requested that

identity be kept confidential.

The information which led to the location and

apprehension of PEGGY ANN FRYE was obtained 8-26-59 by Bureau

Agents from Mrs. RUBY JELSEN, FRYE's mother. She has requested

that her identity be kept confidential.

The El Paso Office should be credited with the appre-

hension of a Bureau fugitive, PEGGY ANN FRYE, at Midland, Texas,

on 8-26-59.

OTHER 4

B*

Cover Page

HW

45922

DocId: 32334708

Page

3

---

