# docid-32298809

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10224-10089

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 159-1864-3, 4, 5, 6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/09/1964

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

APR, AKA, ASSOC, JHO, TEAMSTER UNION ACT,

CONTRACT, B/F INT, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC 4 A/T, LHM, 2 NEWS ARTIC

v9.l

NN 45927

2

DocId: 32298809

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36, (Rev. 10-29-63)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

FBI

Date: 10/22/64

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI

Atlantis lad Pairia

A & P COMPANY

ANTHONY PROVENZANO,

2 INCITED

aka

LMRA - IM

00: PITTSBURGH

ReBuairtel to Pittsburgh and New York, 10/13/64

and New York airtel to Bureau, 10/19/64.4

-Attached are five copies for the Bureau and

one copy each for the information of Newark and New York

'of a letterhead memorandum based on information supplied

by PG 601-C on 9/24/64 and during subsequent contacts

through 10/19/64. The second source mentioned in the

letterhead memorandum is l

aka, TOMMY,

who is the ex-president of the Salesmen and Office Workers

Union, Local 490, Pittsburgh, and a longtime confidential

source of the Pittsburgh Office.

_was contacted on

10/12/64 and subsequently through 10/19/64.

0-1 1010-29-64

OTHER 4

3.

- Bureau (Enc. 5.

- Newark (159-168)(Info)(Enc. 1)

1 - New York (159-267) (Info) (Enc. 1)

1 - Pittsburgh

REC-28 159-1864-6

CAJ: mms -

(6)

Ree I'D CRIt. DrY by 0-6B

Ice LABOR DEVA,

,'LOXLER

10-18-6v, TRA/ema

Ro OCT 24 1964

ST-101

, oclippe

Approved:

34047e

Spècial Agent in Charge

QWH 45927

DocId: 32298809 Page 2

Sent

_ M

Per

---

## Page 3

...

UNI'

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

October 22, 1964

USTICE

A 8 P COMPANY, INC.

ANTHONY PROVENZANO,

ALSO KNOWN AS "TONY PRO"

LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS

ACT - INVESTIGATIVE MATTER

Office, who is active in Teamster Union affairs locally,

advised Special Agents Damon W. Pitcher and John S. Portella

that Local 249, International Brotherhood of Teamsters,

Pittsburgh, is voting on September 27, 1964, on the

ratification of a contract with A & P and that both the

company and the union's officials are obviously working

to gain a favorable vote.

In this connection, source advised that James

Halbert, Pittsburgh District Supervisor of Transportation

and Warehousing for A & P, residence address 220 Orchard

Drive, Pittsburgh 35, Pa., has stated that the negotiations

• been conducted in New York City

between the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and a

labor consultant firm which is representing the A & P.

Two of the negotiators for the A & P are a Mr. Avery and a

Mr. Lewis. He stated that the labor consultant firm is

New Jersey Teamster Union official) and that during the last

week of the Hoffa trial in Chicago, Avery and Lewis were

vacationing in Connecticut and were summoned to New York

where they met with "Tony Pro" in regard to the pending

negotiations.

Jimmy Hoffa, International Brotherhood of Teamsters President,

desires ratification öf the A & P contract and, at the same

time that Avery and Lewis were in New York City, Tom Fagan,

1159-1866

ENCLOSURE

HW 45927

DocId: 32298809

Page

3

---

## Page 4

A 8 P COMPANY, INC..

ANTHONY PROVENZANO,

ALSO KNOWN AS "TONY PRO"

LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS

ACT - INVESTIGATIVE MATTER

Subsequently, in the same connection, Fagan has made two

trips to New

York City without divulging their purpose to

anyone.

Fagan is most desirous of pleasing Hoffa in this

regard

because Harry Tevis, Third International Vice-President

of

the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, a Pittsburgh

resident, is slated for removal from office by either

voluntary or involuntary means,

and Fagan is the leading

contender to be his replacement.

The source stated that the current grocery

warehouse strike situation in California is the result of

rank and file rebellion in opposition to the new A & P

contract.

In a contact

with the source on October 5, 1964,

he advised that at the time Halbert mentioned the trip to

New York by Avery and Lewis he commented "We finally got

around to fighting you guys with one of your own guys.

We got tony pro's boys working for us."

He does not recall

that Halbert disclosed the name of the labor consultant

firm employed by A &P, but described the firm only as

"Tony Pro's firm."

During subsequent contacts with Halbert

he has been unable to determine the identity of the

consultant firm.

The source advised that Hoffa is endeavoring to

establish a national contract,

that he has achieved his

goal within the "Central Conference," and is endeavoring

to obtain a similar contract in the East. The source

explained that the voting on September 27, 1964, by members

of Local 249 related to a national contract in that a

° Bast7, 1961 that

failure to approve the proposed contract with A & P locally

would result in theirting subjected to the terms of a

national contract similar to the one negotiated in other

sections of the country.

Reportedly Fagan told members

of Teamsters Local 249 that if their negotiations on a

local contract with A & P at Pittsburgh were unsuccessful

they would be forced to accept the terms of a national contract.

2

KIS 45927

DocId:32298809 Page 4

---

## Page 5

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Pittaburgh, Pennsylvania

October 22, 1964

A & P COMPANY, INC.

ANTHONY PROVENANO,

AISO KNOWN AS "TONY PRO

LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS

ACT - INVESTICATIVE MATTER

On September 24, 1964, a source of the Pittsburgh

office, who is active in teamster Union artairs locally,

advised special Agence Damon W. Pitcher and John s. Forcella

that Local 249, International Brotherhood of Teamatere,

Pittsburgh, la voting on September 27, 1904, on the

ratification of a contract with A & P

and that both the

company and the union's officials are obviously working

to gain a favorable vote.

In this connection, source advised that James

Halbert, Pitteburgh District

Supervisor of Traneportation

and Warehousing for A & P, residence addrese 220 Orchard

Drive, Pittsburgh 35,

Pa,, has stated that the negotiations

on a national level have been conducted in New York City

between the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and

labor consultant firm which is representing the A & P.

Two of the negotlators for the A'd P are a Mr. Avery and a

Mr. Lewis. He stated that the labor consultant firm is

actually owned by "Tony Pro" (Anthony Provenzano, prominent

New Jersey teamster union official and that during the last

week of the Hoffa trial in Chicago, Avery and Lewis were

vacationing in Connecticut and were summoned to New York

where they met with "Tony Pro" in regard to the pending

negotiations.

From other sources, the source has learned that

Jimmy Hoffa, International Brotherhood of Teansters President,

desires ratifleation of the A & P contract and, at the same

time that Avery and Lewis were in New York City, Tom Fagan,

President of Local 249, was summoned to Chicago where he

met with Hoffa and en A & P representative from the last in

connection with ways of

• obtaining the desired ratification.

N₩ 45927 DocId: 32298809

Page 5

---

## Page 6

A & P COMPANY, ING.

ANTHONY PROVENZANO,

ALSO KNOWN AS "TONY PRO"

LABOR MANAGENENT RELATIONS

ACT - INVESTIGATIVE MATTER

Subsequently, in the same connection, Fagan has made two

trips to New

York City without divulging their purpose to

anyone.

Fagan is most desirous of pleasing Hoffa in this

regard because Harry Tevis, Third International Vice-President

of the International Brotherhood of Faameters,

a Pittsburgh

resident, 1s slated for removal from office by elther

voluntary.or Involuntary means, and Fagan is the leading

contender to be his replacement.

The source stated that the eurrent grocery

warehouse strike situation in California is the result of

rank and file rebellion in opposition to the new A & P

contract.

In a contact with the source on October 5, 1964,

he advised that at the time Halbert mentioned the trip to

New York by Avery and Lewis he commented "We finally got

He does not recall

that Halbert disclosed the name of the labor consultant

firm employed by A & 2, but described the firm only as

"Tony Pro's firn."

During subsequent contacts with Halbert

he has been unable to determine the identity of the

consultant firn.

The source advised that Hoffa is endeavoring to

establish a national contract, that he has achieved his

goal within the

"Central Conference,"

and is endeavoring

to obtain a similar contract in the Bast.

explained that the voting on September 27, 1964, by members

of Local 249 related to a national contract in that a

failure to approve the proposed contract with A & P locally

would result in theirming subjected to the terme of a

national contract similar to the one negotiated in other

Reportedly Fagan told members

of Teansters Local 249 that if their negotiations on a

local contract with A & P at Pittsburgh were unsuccessful

they would be forced to accept the terma of a national contract.

2

HW. 45927 DocId: 32298809

Page 6

---

## Page 7

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

FBI

Date:

10/19/64

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI

INC

Company

IMRA - IM

(00: PH)

newspaper morgues and reliable informants for any information

regarding a labor consulting firm representing A 8 P!

A review of the 'New York Times"and 'New York Herald

Tribune" at

the newspaper morgue of the New York Public

library was made on 10/15/64, and no information was de-

relating to Teamster

Union Activities regarding

involvement of PROVENZANO with a labor relation firm

representing A & P.

and could furnish no information regarding the above.

NY 4658-C who is familiar with some activitylof

Teamster and A & P negotiations, could not furnish any

information concerning involvement of PROVENZANO with a

labor consulting

REG- 58.

ST-100

159-1864-44

Bureau

2-

Pittsburgh (159-95)

1- New York

AJB: mmatt:

(7)

OCT 20 1904

171

BROCK

ishesjal Agent in Charge

NW 45927

DocId: 32298809

Page 7

Sent

---

## Page 8

1 - Mr. Adams

20/18/00

70%

FROM:

EX 112 PaN (269-05)

(00:20)

nozalrtel 10/9/64?

Dan Fork

chould not contact any available sources

roquested in roaiztel, it boing nated

the Burom pravlously

anstructed

be bate quay on a cocraet baso 1n an extore co

#contity the raported Bahor consultand sire walch allegedly

represented the & & 2 Cozpany.

I6 0888 ba sataniactomy for few Vork:

so choes neumpapor nosgues in this rogerd or any reliablo tatomante

TRo pay have kaveledge of this aspect of Tomotor Union activities.

Tock should suirtel to the Buroan and Pittsburg: by or bozose

10/19/94 regarding this master.

In the nanciao,

Pastsburgh should do nore work on this

mattor and chould not uit for

Loade at Sou Voris to be corored.

Since the unluo and varacity oR D9 60J-G night poolbly bo question

ablo rogerding this nattos, Pittsburgh should cadeavor to secure

verifying or contrary

antomation fron anne othor source on a discreet

It Pictaburen has no other internato cho may have Anouledge

02 Roansters activities,

18 ke sussented Pattaburgh rampages nozgues

he checked in an

to sacure pertinont intoration, le being

noted tho original

allegation dadicated Deanstera Local 209 &*

Pittslugh was votins

on a national contract with the A & P Crupany os

9/27/08.

adastion,

Pittsburgi chould deteraine on a discreet

Tolsonsoake thother such national contract uns zatiliad ly the union as

Mohr

incurreted in Bureau siste

: 9/30/61%

DeLoach

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad _

Evans.

JRA: jds

(6)

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan -

.,.:

Tavel

rotter

Room

MALED JE

COMM-FBI

Gandy

, HH 45927

MAIL ROOMI

DocId: 32298809

TELETYPE UNIT

Page

8

---

## Page 9

FD=36 (Rev. 10-29-63)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

10/9/64

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, PITTSBURGH (159-95) (P)

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC TEA COMPANY

P COMPANY, INC.;

ANTHONY PROVENZANO,

aka. "TonyaPro"

LMRA -. IM

ReBuairtel to Pittsburgh, Newark and New York,

9/30/64.

Additional contacts with PG 601-C have produced

no information to identify the labor consultant firm which

was employed by A & P to assist in its negotiations with

the Teamsters.

Informant advised that in former conver-

sations with JAMES HALBERT he commented, "We finally got

around to fighting you guys with one of your own guys.

We got TONY PRO's boys working for us.

Informant stated

he did not recall that HALBERT disclosed the name of the

consultant firm and said he described it only as "TONY

PRO's firm."

HALBERT also mentioned that AVERY and LEWIS,

who are negotiators representing A & P, reportedly were

called to New York City to confer with the labor consultant

firm prior to negotiations at Pittsburgh with the Teamsters.

Bureau

- New York

1

- Newark (159-168)(Info)

1

- Pittsburgh

CAJ/bac

(7)

EX-114 / REC SE

159-1864-3

20 OCT 581964

C C- Wick,

antel DRAN

10-13-64

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

HH 45927 DocId:32298809 Page 9

Sent

- M

Per

---

## Page 10

PG 159-95

Informant feels he is not on such terms with

HALBERT that he can directly question him and states

HALBERT has merely volunteered information previously

received.

Informant is continuing his efforts to obtain

additional information.

Inquiry at Pittsburgh has not disclosed any

requirement that labor consultant firms register or file

a report of their activitles In labor negotiations (with

the

exception of thosevinstances when they actively

campaign among union members or company employees to

Influence negotiations)

LEAD

NEW YORK

New York is requested to contact any available,

sources (including newspaper reports of A &P Teamster

negotiations) to identify the labor consultant firm'

representing A & P Company

Also check indices for any information regarding

connections of ANTHONY PROVENZANO, aka:

"TONY PRO,)

with a

labor consultant firm.

2

45927 DocId:32298809 Rage, Raue,10

---

