# docid-32290374

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10205-10150

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-2289

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/10/1970

2

SGI, ASSOC, WHEREABOUTS, TRA, TELCAL, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32290374 Page 1

131

---

## Page 2

TO

Leased tider the Tohn

F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection

Act of

1992 744 050

Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

1962 EDITION

MAY 1P 62 EDITORS 101-11.8

* UNITED STATES

MENT

Memorandum

T 7. IND

CLASSTTTTT AT

AN EAGLITRE (DRC)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)º

DAD:: 10/s/85

BY DEARTE

DATE:

FROM

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (92-13)

(P)

2/10/70

VErlAG

1 383

CLASS. & EXT

REASON-FOIM

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL

GIANCANA, aka

9-16-81

18-91920.0:2.0-5.00

Reference Bureau airtel 1/29/70 and Mexico City

etter 1/23/70. U

/APPROPRIATE AGENCIE

AND R.J02

ADVESTO B

StAP (3) 0

DATE

As noted CS MEX 287 advised that subject reportedl

returned to Mexico from Chicago on about 1/11/70. However,

it should be noted that source has not been in personal con-

act with the subject since 11/69 and is getting his informa

tion second hand.Cu

AND FUILD

TION CON'

SIFIED

Nevertheless flight manifests for all international

flights arriving at Mexico City 1/11/70 were reviewed and

no reference was noted considered identifiable with the

subject.

Subsequently source advised that he had a report

that subject was seen in Acapulco 1/6/70 and was believed

have arrived the day before. o

On 1/30/70 source advised that he had been in

con-

tact with

the LERNERs and they have been doing considerable

speculation concerning subject. They both conjectured that

subject may have never left Mexico at all inspite of his

talk of visits to the U.S. including the recent supposed

visit.

They noted that he has not called anyone and has not

been playing golf and they had a report he had "visitors."

Subsequently they reported a rumor that FRANK SINATRA was Miek. •

As subpoena i the "o 5.

visiting with the subject supposedly to escape service of Call?.

They speculated that SINATRA and in

subject are now in Acapulco probably staying at the Acapulco!. T

Towers under false names.

recently and therefore no pretext to get together.

nate that me to trave 90 out moca

There have been no card games

and might be going back and forth to the uns. through

canada

The

next card game will probably bellate, in February.

2CC Sint Leg 0)

Bureau

(1-Liaison)

2-10:704.90 4E8

(2-Chicago) (92-349)

(2-Los Angeles) (92-135)

TI ?

-Mexico City

2 PEE-S 19701

5010-108-02

EXEMPT FROM GDIS

DATE, I DECLASSIFICAT US LAE

DocId: 32290374

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under. the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107 Hobej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

During eary 1/70 subject reportedly was staying

with a girl friend, a chorus girl

from

the Copacabana in

New York, named JANE Or JUNE H.

that subject's visitor,

reportedly came to Mexico as a regular traveler but using a

different name before Christmas of 1969.

They continued to

speculate that the visitor was SINATRA S

On 2/5/70 FRANK BRANDSTEITER (protect by request),

prominent Acapulco hotelman who has acted as a source of this

office in the past and is familiar with SINATRA, advised that

local reports are that SINATRA is due in Acapulco 2/7/70.

He is to

take

section.

Up residence in his home in the Las Brisas

BRANDSTENTER will be alert for the possibility of

subject being

in contact with SINATRA Or MOE MORTON in

Acapulco.

MEX 343

dvised 1/6/70 that telephone number 20836

in Acapulco corresponds to the Acapulco Towers

located in

Lomas del Mar above the Villa Vera Hotel.

Regarding subject's girl friend, reference is made

to New York LHM 1/19/70.

Mexico City source has requested

extreme discretion in any contacts with this individual

LEADS

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.

Will advise if it is known'

if subject's daughter had a child on or about Christmas of

1969• U

LOS ANGELES

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA. Will advise Legat,

Mexico City,

if FRANK SINATRA's whereabouts are currently

known. U

LANDS

MEXICO CITY

AT

MEXICO

D. F.

1. Will continue to follow through

28

2.

Will contact Acapulto sources for information

concerning subject's reported presence in that area.

2

802-10120

MAI

DocId:32290374 Page 3

---

