# docid-32339232

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90146-10064

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-93072-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/25/1961

4

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32339232

•14

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: -11-14-2017

FBI

SEC

(ET.

Date:

8/25/61

Transmit the following in PLAIN TEXT

(Type In plain text or code)

Via AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

EE INZORMATION COPIU

LE BICEPT

FD-217

41816

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4196)

SAC, NEW YORK (97-1792)

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE (FPCC)

RA-CUBA;

IS-CUBA;

IS-C;

IS-SWP

DEC

GEC SE S668 SUDIGGL

ON /031/98

The following information 1s being submitted to

the Bureau and offices covering FPCC chapters, inasmuch as

It appears to contain the key to the FPCC membership list.

62

1-100-405556

1-97-4196-34

3-Baltimore (INFO)

1-BOStOn (INFO) (RM

1-Chicago (INFO) (RM

]-Cleveland (INFO)

(BERTA GREEN)

206 273

0301227

classierefates

105-

93072

L-LOS Angeles (INFO

1-Minneapo11s

1105-39072=

1-New Haven (INFO)

NOT REMARDED

1-Newark (INFO (RM)

167 AUG 29.1968.

1/025

1-Philadelphia (INFO) (RM)

I-San Diego (INFO) (RM)

Masshited by

1-San Francisco (INFO) (RM)

Danger

DADR

JFK

1-Seattle (INFO) (RM)

1-Tampa (INFO (RM)

I-New York (10542387)

(RICHARD GIBSON)

I-New York

100-92522)

(BERTA GREEN)

Clared

1259 - 3-13-78

1-New York

I-New Yori 3(34-37225-(INVESTIGATIVE(EYYU

1-New York 197-17921

Om

SEXRET

58 SEP 1 19671

SEP 6 1961

4100

DocId: 32339232

Page 2

V

COPY FILED IV

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: '11-14-2017

NY 97-1792

SECRET.

NYO has been cognizant of the code letters "A62" which

appear on some of the FPCC addressograph plates which

were made available by NY 3245-S* on 5/21 and 22/61,

and has been attempting to resolve the signifigance

of the code letters through sources and investigation.

Pertinent information has been developed as follows:

On the night of 8/23/61, NY 3229-S assisted in

the preparation of a propaganda mailing at FPCC head-

quarters in NYO. Approximately 1500 envelopes were

stuffed with propaganda, stamped, and were addressed

on the addressograph machine for

mailing to individuals

in the NY area.

Of these, approximately 400 envelopes

were withheld from the mail by the FPCC due to a shortage

•In the number of one of the propaganda leaflets:

NY 3229-S grasped the opportunity to confidentially

Inquire of BERTA GREEN, Secretary-Ireasurer of NY. chapter

i the Fpcos as to the

signifigance of the code letters

"A62"

, and "c62"

1/3 of the addressograph plates. GREEN confided to

NY 3229-S that the FPCC has been gradually converting its

addressograph plates so that members on the mailing list

would be identified by code lettering which would signify

a quarter of the year in which the membership would come

up for renewal.

GREEN explained that the code letters

"Ab?" on the addressograph plate identify a member whose

membership comes up for renewal in the first quarter of 1962.

She said the code letters "B62" indicate a member whose

membership comes up for renewal in the second quarter of

1962.

The code letters

"c62" indicate a membership renewal

due In the third

quarter of 1962.

NY 3229-S volunteered his services and the use of

his car to FPCC in order to transport the mail to the Post

Office.

Thereby, NY 3229-S made the mall avallable to

SA LUNDQUIST who in turn had all envelopes bearing either

=2-

RET

DocId: 32339232 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 97-1792

SECRET.

the code "A62" or "B62" or "C62" photostated:

Enclosed

Ior the Bureau are Photostats of the 364 names identified

with one of the above codes which were included in the

mailing.

This information 1s not being disseminated outside

the Bureau at this time inasmuch as it has not been sufficiently

confirmed through other sources. Furthermore, other factors

set forth here and alter appear contradictory, and yet

some of the factors set forth here and after appear to

support the information developed by NY 3229-S. Moreover,

NY 3229-S was unable to determine whether or not the

complete FPCC mailing list had been converted

as yet or

whether' just the NY mailing list was being handled thus.

The Bureau will note that there are certain

establishments on this mailing list which are also identified

with code letters.

This may be the result of clerical

error at FPCC headquarters or on the other hand, FPCC

may regard these as friendly establishments which they

consider eligible to receive

all mail sent to members.

Other pertinent information developed concerning

membership follows:

Wher NY 3164-S first requested FPCC to place him

he then received mail

subsequently,

*NY 3164-Sycomplalned to FPCC that he was receiving general&)e(u)

ma11 whereas " he destred to be placed on the press mailin s)(lL)

NY 3164-Sithen began to receive mail with the code

NY 3164-Sfadvised that on 8/4/61, helS

mentioned to RICHARD GIBSON that he had received three

separate envelopes addressed to him all containing the

same literature, but that he noted one envelope carried

the code "A62", the second envelope carried

the code

and the third envelope carried the code

2 20 8(4)

= 3-

SECRET

DocId: 32339232

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: *11-14-2017

NY 97-1792

SECRET

reiterated to GIBSON that he wanted to be sure he was

receiving mall distributed by the FPCC to the press.

He mentioned then that it appeared he was receiving

only general mailings.

GIBSON merely replied,

that in the liat that tas slven to (senator) Dono. el

AlSO, on 8/7/61 NY 3164-Sjadvised that on

(И)

8/5/61% ANDRE MARTINSONS (who is employed in a clerica

capacity at FPCC headquarters remarked that there

are

three FPCC mailing lists

_ MARTINSONS. said there 18 a

general malling list, a press ils fue have

and a third l1st

concerning which MARTINSONs said,

specials (u)

I1st for people a little revolutionary."

on 5/23/61, CG 6259-s advised that when RICHARD

GIBSON met with the Executive Councilo the Chicago chapter

of the FPCC on 5/20/61, at Chicago, Illinois, he remaried

that the National Office of the FPCC would soon send out

membership renewal notices on a quarterly basis.

It therefore appears quite likely that the FPCC

18 coding

Its mailing list to indicate memberships, and

that GIBSON possibly perjured

himself when he testified

before the Senate Internal Security Sub Committee.

Never-

theless,

it has been determined from above information that

BERTA GREEN has knowledge of the membership list. It 1s

possible GREEN may be the custodian of the list.

NYO 18 making arrangements to recontact NY 3245-5*

In mid September, at which time attempts will be made to

obtain complete current mailing list of the FPCC and examine

1t for coded notations.

In the meantime, all offices receiving a copy of

this communication should be alerted for any information

pertinent to the coding of FPCC mailing list to reflect

membership.

SECRET

DocId: 32339232

Page 5

---

