# docid-32316386

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

124-10347-10006

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 62-302-37-20

Released under the John

Mosassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:WH 45920 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

PH

HQ

DATE: 04/15/1959

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

JAMES PLUMERI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO; INC MEMO

V9.1

HH 45920

DocId: 32316386

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

STARDARO FORM NO. 6A-

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DATE: 4/15/59

SAC, Philadelphia (62-3899)

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI (62-302)

CRIMINAL ELEMENT IN BUSINESS FIELD,

PHEADS PIES DIVISION, IS

INFORMATION CONCERNING

НИ 15920

DocId:32316386 Page 2

Memo

Carray to facen

Lit -PH,

6011-1-9

THIS MEMORANDUM IS NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED

(A) Individuals Involved

ukar

angelo

Scrandra

ANGELO JOSEPH

ney.

Born November 26m1923, Pittston, Pa, served U. S. Navy June

1943 to December 1945, engaged in dress industry and in 1957 andy1958.

pRoC

1959

APR 20

owned and directed an orchestra. His father, JOHN according tö

PH 521-5, was formerly a leader in the valla in the Anthracite Regional

of Pennsylvania.

ANGELO SCIANDRA attended the meeting at Apalachin, dra

N. J., November 14, 1957, and for a number of years has been closely

associated with RUSSELI, BUFALINO, DAVE OSTICCO, DOMINIC ALAIMO and

GIOACCHINO PARISI, all of whom are PhiLadelphia lop Hoodlums.

RUSSHLLA

BUFALINO

Pie orla drate has been ser and buy a it a to pren

in Sicily, and entered United States

leader of the Mafia in the pittston area and is widely acquainted with

hoodlums In New York City, New York State and other areas.

Attended

Apalachin meeting and is presently under deportation order.

DOMINIC JOHN

ALAIMO

DominiC

Boxh January 28, 1910, in Sicily, and is a derivative citizen.

Has been associated with the coal and dress indust

as soclate

Fa

OL BUFALINO, SCIANDRA, WILLIAM MEDICO, SANTO VOLPE, reputed

Mafia leader,

51 Cal

62-302-37-70

REC-

130 1

2 20 1407-20 1959

EX-136

ENTEI

---

## Page 3

PH 62-3899

HARRY MACKLOWE is President, MAX SIEIN Treasurer,

and PAUL

SIEDMAN Secretary of the Bonny Stewart, Inc.

JEK Law 11(a)

A. B.&S. Contracting Company of pittst...

According to New York PCI MAX STEIN

, this firm consisted of

DOMINIC ALAIMO, RUSSELL BUFALING and MAX STEIN, but STEIN withdrew in

"1955.

The purpose of this company was for ALAIMO and BUFALINO to secure

contract work through contacts of dress manu'acturers in the Pittston

area. STEIN Para BUFATINO and ALAIMO ToF their services and also

received $1,600 a year as his share of the profits.

Francey Dress Company

16I North Main Street

Pittston,

Pa.

No record of this company is maintained' at the Pennsylvania

Corporation Bureau, but records of the telephone company show that it

was located in Pittston from August 6, 1956, to February 26, 1958, and

that the telephone service during that period was billed to DOMINIC..

ALAIMO

7

lla

NW 45920

DocId: 32316386

Page 3

---

