# docid-32162603

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10146-10161

RECORD_ SERIES: CI

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-456-32

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. CG

DIRECTOR. FBI

Released under the John

?. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

DATE: 11/28/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 44-24016-110

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

05/13/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/09/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 54463

DocId:32162603

Page

1

---

## Page 2

CONE

(5668 Se0/642-813195-571

ALI INFORVATION CONTAINED

HERZIN IS UNGLASSTPIED EXCEPT

FIERE SHORN OTHERWISE.

URGENT 11-303

7-51 AN LUC

Declassify on: OADR EF)

TO DIRECTORS AND SAOS, CINCIMATI, DALLAS AND LOS ANGELES!

566851D/GCL

PRON SAGe CHIGNGO 144-5450

#PAGES

2/26/95-550

JACK LO RUBY, ANdO LES MARVEY OSTALDO AMA. DASH VICTIMOS

CIVIL BIGTS.

RE DALLAS TEL AND CHICAGO TEL. ELEVEN TENTYSEVEN LAST.

RE ALLEGED CONNURIST ACTIVITIES

RE UNSUS FOSSIBLY JACH NUGENSTEIN, TO ALLEGEDLY TRAVELLED

IC MUNCIE, INDIANAg

COMPANY OF SON IN LA! OF SAM JAFFEE IN

EARLY FORTIES AND

SIBLY IN NINÉTEEN FORTYSIX OR" SEVEN.

SEVIOUR CHAZI

ONE ZERC FIVE WEST ADAMS, CHICAGO, INTERVIEWED

THIS DATE DY SAS ROGERT AO VILLENURE AND AVERY DẠCUS, AND ADVISED

HE IS A SCH IN LAU OF SAM JAFFEES CHAZIN STATED SUBJECT JACKE

RUBENSTEIN UNKNON TO HIM AND: THAT HE HAS NO, KNOWLEDGE OF ANY CP

MEETINGS EING HELD IN WUNCIE DURING PORTIES AND AT NO.TIMEREVER

ACCOMPANIED ANY GROUP FRO! CHICAGO TO MEETING IN MUNCIE.

TEHE

SAID ONLY SON IN LAU OF JAFFEE WHO MAY HAVE PROUGHT A: GROUP FROM

CHICAGO TO MUNCIE IS NOU LIVING

LOS ANGELES. THIS SON IN

LAW-S PRESENT NANO IS IRMIN

HOWEVER, DECAUSE OF HIS SHOP

SUSINESS AFFILIATIONS HE CHANGED HIS NAME FROM IRWIN BERKESTEA

CHICAGO INDICES ON IRMIN DERKESTEAD AND IRWIN BERKE NEGATAVE

END PAGE ONE

SERIALIZED C

FILEDE WE

NOV 28 1963

NGINNAT

bo-r? CONFI

ALAL

HH 54463 DocId:32162603 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

FOLLOWING. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANTS ACTIVE IN CP IN THIRTIES

AND FOURTIES WERE EXHIBITED PHOTOS OF JACK RUBENSTEIN, THIS DATE

AND ADVISED THIS INDIVIDUAL UNKNOWN TO THEM AS ACTIVE

CP.a

CE. FIVE SIX ZERO NINE DASH SEC EIVE NINE ZERO EIGHT DASHIS,

ICG FIVE EIGHI NINE ZERO DASH S

CG' FIVE SEVEN NINE ZERO DASH S

DO FORMER CE FIVE NINE ONE TWO DASH S, FORMER CG FIVE THREE SEVEN

THREE DASH S.

•LOS ANGELES HANDLE. INTERVIEW: OF BERKE AS REQUESTED IN RE

CHICAGO TEL.

THIS COMPLETES CHICAGO PHASE OF INVESIIGATION IO IDENTIFY

AND INTERVIEW SONS IN LAW OF SAVI JAFFEE.

FOR INFO CINCINNATI, CHICAGO HAS IDENTIFIED, ALL THREE SONS

IN LAU OF JAFFEE®

END AND ACK PLS

WA

8-58 PM

XXXAM

OK FEI WA

RM

CI

LA

8-57 AM OK FBI CI GDM

7-57 AM OK. FBI DL EEA

MLMÉ 5043003

9*53

LA PLS REPEAT

T5 TI

AM OK FELLA

QLT DISCHNI

HH 54463

DocId: 32162603 Page 3

---

