# docid-32176324

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10184-10319

RECORD_SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-74-96

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :NUT 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 07/30/1964

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

FPCC, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

07/01/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

DATE LOWER LEFT CORNER

IN 54462 DocId:32176324 Page 1

---

## Page 2

in in.

1 .:

1-31-94

1'i

9803 ROD /KSe

Basiessly

O MER (UFIO)

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

The April

6, 1960, edition of "The New York Times"

newspaper contained

full-page advertisement captioned

"What Is Really Happening In Cuba," placed by the Fair Play

for Cuba Connittee (FPCC). This advertisement announced

the formation of the FPCC in New York City and declared the

cuba no aded to pe aulgate "the truth about revolutionary (u)

to neutralize the distorted American press.

"The New York Times" edition of January 1l, 1961,

reported that at a hearing conducted before the United States

Senate Internal Security Subcommittee on January 10, 1961,

Dr. Charles A. Santos-Buch identified himself and Robert

Taber as organizers of the FPCC.

He also testified he and

Taber obtained funds from the Cuban Government which were

applied toward the cost of the aforementloned advertisesent. (e)

On May 16, 1963, a source advised that during the

first two years of

the FPCC's existence there was a struggle

between Comnunist Party (CP) and Socialist Workers Party (SHP)

elements to exert their power within the FPCC and thereby

influence FPCC policy.

This source added that during the

past year there had been a successful effort by FPCC leadership

to minimize the role of these and other organizations in the

epcc so that their influence as of lay, 1963, vas negligible. (v)

The SW has been designated pursuant to Executive

Order 10450.

On May 20, 1963,

a second source advised that

Vincent "Ted" Lee, FPCC National Office Director, was then

formulating FPCC policy and had indicated that he had no

ALLI

THIED

E.T:

7/30/64

SAC LETTER NO. 64-39

CLASSHIEN

HAND

EXTENDE

1958-5 A503

520104

DATE

DECLASSIA CATION..

FOR

9i7.ü4-31

SERIALIZED, I/FILED....

AÚG 3 1964

FBI - NEW ORLEANS 1/

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/GAL

DECLASSIFY ON. 25X MA

JFK) 3/5/92

NH 54462

DooId: 32176324

Page 2

---

## Page 3

intention of permitting FPCC policy to be determined by any

other organization.

This source stated that Lee believed

that the FPCC should advocate resumption of diplomatic

relations between Cuba and the United States and should

support the right of Cubans to manage their revolution

without interference fron other nations. Lee did not

advocate supporting the cuban revolution per se.

(u)

The November 23, 1963, edition of "The New York

Times" reported that Senator Thomas J. Dodd of Connecticut

had called FPCC "the chief public relations instrument of

the Castro network in the United States."

It is to be noted

that Senator Dodd was a member of the Senate Internal

Security Subcommittee which twice conducted hearings on (v)

the FPCC.

27, 1963, edition of "The New York

Horld Telegram and Sun" newspaper stated that the pro-Castro

FPCC was seeking to go out of business and that its prime

activity during 1ts lifetime had been sponsorship of pro.

travel-to-Cuba campaigns.

Its comparatively brief span of

life was attributed to mounting anti-Castro American public

ultimately, the bad publicity which the FPCC received from

disclosure

presidential assassin Lee H. Oswald.

on february 6, 1964, the previously mentioned

second source advised that v.

T. Lee had recently remarked

that the FPCC was dead and that there were no plans to

organize another similar organization.

(U)

On April 13, 1964, a third source advised that

there had not been any FPCC

activity in many months and

that the FPCC had been dissolved.

(v).

Sources: ANY 3164-51

LA)

NY

3467-S

#NY 33675708)

(u)

DONFIDENA

7/30/64

SAC LETTER NO. 64-39

- 6 -

NW 54462 DooId: 32176324 Page 3

---

