# docid-32287039

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10196-10315

RECORD SERIES :

HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-9-1059

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

• TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

08/20/1962

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

THP, TESUR, BUSS, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

11/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC RESPONSE MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32287039

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, Calcago 353-350-8)

Director,

731 (68-9-29) -

105

JUNE

TOP HOODL UM PROGRAM

CHICAGO DIVISION

CG 6486-C*

ALL INFORMATION

SUTTONES

NER:

19

AACLASSIFIED

S.P5P/ WHERE

SHOWD

Reurlet 8-20-62.

& CRAWISE

Referenced letter requested advice of the FBI Laboratory

concerning use of a simplex circuit to enable operation of two

MITES on a selective basis over the same telephone line.

A simplex circuit can be used with a polar relay for the

control of two MITES. Circuit for this is the same as that

appearing as Figure 6, page 35, of the Handbook of Technical

Equipment, except that the transformers are omitted and the

circuit is established through one side of the line to ground. -

Experience has shown that the unbalanced condition created by

establishment of a control circuit in this manner may introduce

noise into the microphone line.

Switching of two MITES on one line can be more easily

accomplished by the use of diodes which are smaller than the

polar relay and much more easily concealed.

There is attached

a diagram showing method of using diodes.

It is recommended

that this circuit be utilized in preference to the simples circuit

as it is simpler to install and will not introduce noise into the

microphone line.

9-21-98

CLASSIFIED BY 5405 SUO/KSR

Enclosure

1 -[80-7917(5)

RAM:cf (10)

DECLASSIFY OLL COA

(JEK)

MAILED 27.

AUG 2 8 1962

COMM-FBI

August 28, 1962

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

SENSECRET

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32287039

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

- DATE: 11-14-2017

• OPTIONAL FORM NO. 1O

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

8/20/62

FROM

SAC, CHICAGO (92-350 Sub E)

ATTN :

FBI LABORATORY

ELECTRICAL SECTION

SUBJECT:

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

CHICAGO DIVISION

CG 6486-C*

JUNE

At the present time Chicago is operating a MITE

approximately 14 miles distant from the Consolidated Plant.

Only one trunk line is available for this installation, but

it would be highly desirable to locate a second MITE in an

adjacent room and be able to select that MITE which is most

productive at the time.

It is pointed out that some line noise though not

objectionable is prevalent in the circuit due to the distance

involved and it would be highly undesirable to add to this

noise ratió..

The Laboratory is requested to advise if a Simplex

circuit could be utilized to select one of two audio circuits

where MITEs are utilized.

If so, how can damage to these

units be avoided?

If a Simplex circuit can be utilized in

the aforementioned installation, the Laboratory is requested

to furnish a detailed schematic outline along with any helpful

as it is pointed out the Chicago Division has

not utilized Simplex circuitry to date.

Vccdet.Elec.sec.

2 - Bureau (RM)

2 - Chicago

1-134-44

Letter

REC- 35

LHN: mec

(4)

828/62

62-9-9-1059

RAM:C

AUG 22 1962

URE

1V0U3V108À

3.1

2 ENCLO

BRe SS 15 80 6H05

DECLINEO

DocId: 32287039 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act, of 1992 (44 USC 2107. Note).

DATE:

11-14-2017

HUGHES DIODE

HD 6.006

H• ON. THIS

. END

BLACK

MITE

BROWN

1: 005MF 1

MUGNES: DIODE

HD6006

ON

TH-I S

END

BLACK

.005MF 0:

MITE

BROWN

THESE ITEMS SHOULD BE INSTALLED AT.

POINT: TO BE MONITORED::

DIODES.

AND

CAPACITORS SHOULD BE AS:

CLOSE

TO MITE AS POSSIBLE:

LINE.

LINE

POLARITY REVERSING SWITCH

REGULATED

POWER SUPPLY

THESE ITEMS AT LISTENING POINT

SYSTEM FOR SELECTIVE

OPERATION OF EITHER

OF TWO MITES OR MATES

DocId: 32287039

Page

4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Äct of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE y

41-14-2017

- HUGHES DIODE

HD.6006

BLACK

BROWN

005MF1

HUGHEST PRODE

HD.6.006V

HOR THESTEND

BLACK:

MITE.

BROWN

THESE ITEMS SHOULD BE INSTALLED AT

POINT TO BE MONITORED.

DIODES AND CAPACITORS SHOULD BE AS?

CLOSE TO MITE AS POSSIBLE.

- LINE:

POLARITY REVERSING SWITCH

REGULATED

POWER SUPPLY

THESE ITEMS AT LISTENING POINT

SYSTEM FOR SELECTIVE

OPERATION OF EITHER

OF TWO MITES OR MATES

0. 94 no

DocId: 32287039

Page

---

