# docid-32293867

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10212-10143

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 62-75147-210-65

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, HAVANA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/03/1955

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

MZE, ASSOC, B/F INT, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32293867

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Apt of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Mer

dum • UNITED ST

OVERNMENT

TO

FROM

Director, FBI

CONFIDENTIAL

DATE:

way 3, 1955

havana

Cuba

LEGACOIIE

SP8-Mk

Legal Attache, Havana, Cuba (64-153)

>-26-94

G.I.I

ALL INKORMATION CONTAINE

AMERICAN GAMBLING ACIVITIES IN CUBA

HEREIN LS UNCLASSIFIEL

GIIF*

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

2

Class: 82%

Reason - FCut

Date

стС

CADR 2/17/84

Classified My

Declassify %

Reference Havana letter March-21, 1955, which, among other things,

pointed

out that Cuban Law Decree No. 2019 dated 1-27-55 authorized

gambling in clubs and cabarets which were certified as suitable for such

purposes by the Cuban Institute of Tourism.

E0(4

On 428-55 CI HAV-l1 advised that he had been informed that a

concession to bring slot machines into Cuba and set them up had been granted

by Minister of the Interior, SANTIACeTREY, to MARTINox, ohe of the owners

of the Tropicana Night Club in Havana.

He said this information had been

given to him by GEORGE TEVINE, FBI No.

382915s who is most upset

because he

claims the slot machihe concession had been promised to him.

1(XU)

Source said that he had further been informed that DINg CELLINI,

FBI No. 2198122, American floor man at the Tropicana gambling casino, had

made a trip to las Vegas, Nevada, and had made the necessary arrangements

for the shipping of the slot machines to Cuba. (50 (g) U)

On 4-29-55, Mr. EDMUND CHESTER, confidant and confidential advis

to President FULGENCIO BATISTA of Cuba and a good contact of the Havana.

office, was in the office on another matter.

He was questioned as to

whether the above mentioned Law Decree authorized the use of slot machine

in Cuba. Mr. CHESTER said that he, himself, had been

interested in the

matter and had made inquiry and was told that the Law Decree apparentl

authorized all types of gambling devices, including slot machinese

Mr. CHESTER further advised that he had been informed that

considerable pressure had been put on the Cuban Institute of Tourism tò

obtain the passage of the above Law Decree,.

with the thought that Havana

right be converted into another labAnse,

THe said that a great deal of

this pressure was brought by MEYER

FBI No. 791783, notorious

COP!

American hoodlum,

Havana I etter 7(2266)

some of whose activities were reported in reference

Extra copies

of this letter are attached for forwarding by the

Bureau to the Miami.' and Salt lake City offices.

It will be appreciated if

the latter office receives any information through informants conceming

the shipment

be furnished

dot me to romas Yet to do, the information

to the Bureau for POlICORDED

4147-210-65

* MAY, *

acMAKs1 3 1955

EX-225 VOONF

UNRECORI

326

Ners

DocId: 32293867

Page 2

---

