# docid-32300199

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10226-10479

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-86406-1ST NR 24

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/31/1968

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

GPH, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY ACT, OBA, DUARTE, JOSE

ANTONIO, ARRESTED, BOMBINGS, SHIPS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/22/1998

Released under the John

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464 DocId: 32300199

20

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ONIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY LOO LODITION

GSA FEMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

NITED STATES GOR ENMENT

Memorandum

TO

TRON 7/125

SUBJECT

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-162430)

SAC, MIAMI (105-7046) (P.)

JOSE ANTONIO DUARTE-OROPESA

IS - CUBA

00:

Los Angeles.

DATE:

10/31/68

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 4/26/95 BY SPSmA

FK)

Re Los Angeles airtel 9/27/68.

The following sources who are closely associated

with the Poder Cubano groups in Miami, Fla.,

advised that

captioned individual is not associated in the Miami area

with any known Poder Cubano members.

These sources are as

follows:

p2.pe

RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE,

source of the Miani

Office

OSCAR ANGULO REYES, PSI

JOSE GARCIA VALDEZ, PSI

MM 635-S

MM 639-S

On 10/29/68 MM 639-S, who has furnished reliable

information in the past and who has been active in Cuban

revolutionary matters for the past ten years, advised as

follows:

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING is an American soldier of

fortune and adventurer who has been involved in Cuban

revolutionary

activities for about six years and who presently

is residing in los Angeles, Calif. On 10/28/68 HEMMING Called

Miami and told MM 639-S that DUARTE claims to be the represen-

tative of ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA in LOS Angeles, Calif.

BOSCH

Bureau (RM)

2 - Los Angeles (105-23361) (RM)

2 = New York (105-5382) (RM)

1

- Miami

RJD/jah

(7)

05รท86406

NOT RECORDED

141 DEC 16 3N]

7286

64 0EC 1919

ey. U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan.

CRIG

NW 54464 DooId: 32300199

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-7046

a Cuban exile in Miami, Fla., has been active in bombing

shipments going to Cuba and was arrested by the FBI on

10/11/68.

HEMMING stated that ROY HARGRAVES, another

American adventurer, presently living in Los Angeles;:

Calif., was formerly active in Cuban revolutionary matters

in Miami. HARGRAVES is presently in jail in los Angeles

and is charged with dynamiting right wing organizations and

also the headquarters of the Black Panthers in the LOS

Angeles area.

HARGRAVES reportedly worKs fOr DUARTE, who

is associated with black militant organizations and extreme

right wing groups.

However, DUARTE apparently wants racial

warfare between these two groups and is promoting unrest

between racial and political groups.

HEMMING said he was told by HARGRAVES that there

are guerrilla warfare camps in Mexico and such groups as

the Black. Panthers

and the Students for a Democratic Society

(SDS, send members to Mexico to receive guerrilla warfare

training.

HARGRAVES claimed that DUARTE said he sent an

American friend to Mexico to inspect these guerrilla warfare

camps and to report back to him, DUARTE.

HEMMING said that he had received some inquiry

in the los Angeles area from nilitant right wing groups

concerning DUARTE's background, purposes and honesty.

HEMMING requested any information developed in

Miami by MM 639-S be forwarded to Los Angeles so that these

right wing groups could be advised. HEMMING explained that

DUARTE has been able to collect some money from extremist

groups in the Los Angeles area.

MM 639-S explained that both HEMMING and HARGRAVES

are extremists, activists, mercenaries, soldiers of fortune,

opportunists, and immoral.

However,

they have a thorough

knowledge of

Cuban revolutionary activities, have participated

in many proposed raids and invasions, are knowledgeable con-

cerning Cuban matters and are well acquainted in the Cuban

exile community in the United

2.

NW 54464 DooId: 32300199

Page 3

---

## Page 4

MIM

105-7046

MM

639-S advised he did not know what reliance

could be put on information furnished by HEWING but HEMMING

is in a position to furnish information; however, HUMPING

Irequently alters, distorts and changes the information

to suit his

fancy.

Miami at Miami, will maintain contact with MM

639-S to ascertain what further information may

be developed

concerning captioned subject.

54464

DocId: 32300199

Page 4

---

