# docid-32169181

## Page 1

Released underthe John E Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1993644 U56 2107 Hater

DATE: 11-11-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

.. AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10169-10000

RECORD_ SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-183.

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BRENNAN, D. J.

TO: SULLIVAN, W. C.

TITLE:

DATE: 11/23/1963

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT: LHO, POST-RP, ASSOC, INFORMANT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

11/04/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32169181

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the Jôhn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

•*.

TO

Nr. W. C. SullivanUe

DATE: 11/23/63

SECRET.

FROM : Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr.

‹CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/O

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Hölmes

- Gandy

LSUBJECT:

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

BH

SSIECATION IND

IS -R

2/96

The following information was furnished to the Liaison

Agent on 11/23/63, by Pete Bagley, CIA.

USSR

Bagley made reference to nformation

previously

disseminated

to the Bureau by CMVindicating that (on 10/18/63, Oswald had contactec

Soviet Embassy,

Katerty Kind matt Ovald Inquired if there had an tent is ponse

Mexico City, on MeXICO!

from Washington, D. C.,

concerning a request which he apparently had

made. He again

contacted the soviet Embassy on 10/1/63, concerning

›EXEMP:

the same matter.

surveillance of

information througha technical

the

Soviet Embassy.

923/44 5766-

Bagley

sated that he wished to point out that Kostikov

6454

known KGB agent

the same individual who has been in'touch with

the Bureau double agentin the case referred Igs TUMBLEWEED. (This

case relates to a

double agente

Guenter Schulz

by us against the Soviets.

He Nas had contace

who is being operated

with the Soviets in

Mexico City. Bagley pointed

out that Kostikov has been tentatively

identified

with the Thirteenth

Department of the KGB, which, handles

Sabotage; and assassinations

99779

With regard to his contacts with the Soviets,

we knew

through a sensitive informant, on 11/18/63 that Lee Harver Oswald More

beerin contact with the

Soviet Embassy, Washing one.

which time he related he had recently met with "Comrad Kostin,

USEP

Soviet Embassy

exiCo City Oswald indicated to the Soviet Embassy,

Washington,

DitiC.,

that he was unable to remain in Mexico because

of Mexican visa restriction of 15 days and that he could not request

a new visa unless he used his real name.

The same informant indicated

that Oswald originally had intended to visit the Soviet Embassy in

Havana, Cuba,

kat can te ta ta have had time to "complete his business

109-225

REG 12'

-183

ACTION

58DEC101963₴

'CLASSIFIED BY 5666 SL

DECLASSIRYA

ON: 25

ALL NONATIOS COSTAINED

For information.ar

INEN IS UNCLASSIFIED

105-8255500

ACEPT WHERE SHOWN

1 - Mr. Belmont ne

53

Miratson

1 - Mr. Rosen

1 - Mr. Sullivan

2092

1 - Mr. Branigan

9803010

- Mr.

Turner

1

3.B5.C104

SECRET Declassily. on

- Mx.

Rogge

1 - Assassination of President John

11/22/63, Dallas, Texas

5170HB8Kel 0/5/33 362)

DocId: 32169181

Page 2

---

