# docid-32329901

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/23/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90088-10081

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3241-31

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SU

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/12/1959

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

BENJAMIN BINION

LESTER BENJAMIN BINION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32329901

Page 1•

16

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy AssasSination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memurandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3241)

FROM

pw

SAC, SALT LAKE CITY (94-253)

DATE: 1/12/59

0-1f.L.c

Ret. submitted 1112/54.

112-3

SUBJECT:

LESTER BENJAMIN BINION

=.

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

SALT LAKE CITY DIVISION

1/0.54

Reference is made to Bulet dated November 19, 1958 with

reference to information furnished by San Diego 968-C concerning

MAURICE MICKEY MANDEL.

MANDEL reportedly indicated that BINION

owed him a favor and stated BINION would bankroll him if he

needed it. BINION was contacted relative to his association

with MANDEL on November 24, 1958 and again on December 17, 1958.

He stated on the first contact that MANDEL is known to him and

they were both serving time at the Federal Penitentiary in

Leavenworth, Kansas at the same time; however, he was not closely

assoclated with MaNdiL at any time in the penitentiary, BINION

stating that MANDEL was considered by himself and other inmates as

a mental case. BINION stated that he felt sorry for MANDEL and on

a few. occasions gave him extra food and other items obtained from

the commissary. BINION advised he would attempt to sotain infor-

mation as to the present whereabouts of MANDEL and what he is doing

at the present time and would advise at a later date.

In this regard BINION was again contacted on December 17,

1958 at which time he stated he had received information that MANDEL

was known to have been in a number of towns in California and as far

as he could learn MANDEL at the present time had not pulled any type

of crime; however, he had reportedly violated his parole and where

he is presently serving time is unknown to BINION.

Payt

Б'ЕС

BINION stated he owed nothing to MANDEL in the way of

a favor and in fact he definitely would have no associatión with

him and

that in the event he came to Las Vegas he would immediately

ace he de he tame

get him out of town as he is the type of person, because of his

"shooting off at the mouth" would get himself and other people in

BINION stated shortly after MANDEL's release from Leaven-

worth he came to Las Vegas and contacted him and stated he was

broke, at which time BINION stated he gave him either $10.00 or

$20.00 and told him to leave town immediately and not come back as

Las Vegas was one of the hotest towns on ex-convicts in the United

States.

He stated to his knowledge MANDEL has not been back in

Las Vegas,

= Bureau

•San Diego

REG- 10

11-31

Francisco

take City

23 JAN 16 1959

LEK.

crb

aw

JAN

21 1959

EX. 102

CRUI

DOSE 1056?

DocId: 32329901

Page 2

---

