# docid-32334742

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90118-10101

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2897-27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 09/24/1958

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

NW 45922

11

DocId: 32334742

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PD-78 (8-12-85)

an

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVLSTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

9/24/58

REPORT MADE BY

ROBERT M.

BARRETT

CHARACTER OF CASE

231A/12, 11, 13,14,1

0,319

,14,18

119,21,22,27,28;

9/4,5,8.

TYPED I

JH

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

SYNOPSIS:

DETAILS:

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

POPE pleaded guilty 7/31/58, to narcotics possession charge in

Dallas court, received 3 years sentence.

Conviction result of

information to Dallas SO by FBI; Dallas, originally obtained from

Subject released on appeal bond pending disposition of

M1ss1sg1ppi burglary charge for which POPE arrested by Dallas PD Li

7/16/58. Information later developed that POPE not involved in

POPE presently closely associating with PEGGY ANN/FRY.,.

FBI #265028B,

POPE arrested by Fort Worth PD 8/22/58, on information furnished by

FBI and arrested by Dallas SO 9/8/58.

SUBJECT HAS BEEN KNOWN TO USE

CARRIES A .38 SNUB-NOSE REVOLVER ON PERSON, WAS

DANGEROUS.

POPE HAS MADE STATEMENTS THAT HE WOULD KILL ANY OFFICER

WHO ATTEMPTED TO ARREST HIM.

-P-

SPECIAL AGEN

N CHARG

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2892+27

2

OCT

2 1958

REC- 34

See Page la

DALLAS (92-34)

centurn listing 123/59

By puise "

52 0CT 9

4119

STAL ALET.

PROPERTY OF FBI.—This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which l

HW 45922 DocId: 32334742

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL. 92-34

A. PERSONAL, HISTORY AND BACKGROUND

On July 30, 1958, the New Orleans Office furnished the

following information:

3111, Louisiana, advised SA DONALD L. BELMONT that Healtr

Department birth records for Springhill would be maintained at

Parish Headquarters in Minden, Louisiana.

On July 18, 1958, VERA D. MATTHEWS, Webster Parish Health

to that arman,

no birth records on file with

that department for births prior to 1930, and that anything prior

to that time would have to be obtained through records at New

Orleans.

On July 23, 1958, EILEEN A. RICCA, Clerk, Louisiana

State Bureau of Vital Statistics, Civil Court Building, New Orleans,

advised SA ERNEST M. SMITH that a check of the records of that

office failed to reflect any birth record of the subject.

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

On August 18, 1958, SA ROBERT N. BARRETT observed POPE

at the residence of his mother, Mrs. ETHA POPE at 9430 Newhall

Street, Dallas.

(The name of the street has been recently changed

from Bosque to

Newhall.)

On August 11, 1958, Dallas Confidential Informant T-2,

who has furnished reliable information in the past, advised that

POPE's girl friend, DOROTHY ONEITA LANGDON, had recently returned

to her home in Moberly, Missouri, but was maintaining contact with

POPE through T-2's phone.

T-2 had ascertained that LANGDON was

The above information

was furnished the st. Louis Office by Dallas on August 22, 1958.

On August 11, 1958, T-2 also advised that POPE 1s continuing to

reside with his mother on Newhall Street and had not acquired an

automobile, preferring to use associates' automobiles.

Or September 8, 1958, Dallas Confidential Informant T-3,

who has furnished reliable information

In the past, advised that

POPE continues to reside at his

mother's place and is associating

with a prostitute, ex-convict and narcotics addict PEGGY ANN FRY.

FBII #176630B.

- 2 -

HW 15922

DocId: 32334742

Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 92-34

bald, heavily built man, got out of the Pontiac and went into

the weeds nearby. He apparently picked up something, unwapped

it and threw the wrappings away. After this he got back into

the car and the two men drove off. The kids followed them a

short distance and observed that the Pontiac had a 1958 Texas

license with the prefix MR and believed to contain the numerals

8 and 6.

A search was made of the area where one of these men

was observed to throw something down and officers found a road

map o1 texas on which was stuck a quantity of a gray friction-

type tape as though it had been wrapped around something. Near

1t was a plastic laundry bag with the words "Cannon-Hale

Cleanres,

Henderson, Texas".

Contact by the Natchez Police

Department with the

Sheriff at Henderson and the Ranger at

Sherman developed as suspects WALTER MACK BARNES, a safe man

with a Pontiac believed

identical, and an ex-convict with whom

he has been friends, SEAPERNE JAMES "BALDY" WHATLEY. Warrants

were issued by city authorites at Natchez and the Dallas Police

Department requested to arrest these subjects. Instead, POPE

arrested as it was established that he was a narcotics

addict as well as a safe man, had been friends with BARNES and

had a large quantity of morphine stolen in instant burglary.

Tools left at the scene of the burglary consisted of

a large German-made sledge, painted blue with

a handle bound

in gray friction-type tape, assorted punches, chisels and drills.

All of these were new. This material, along with the road map,

laundry bag and money wrappers from change taken from BARNES at

the time of his arrest in Dallas, have been sent to the FBI

Laboratory•

On August 19, 1958, Sheriff BILL DECKER advised that he

had received information from Natchez, Mississippi authorities

that the burglary process against POPE and BARNES had been

dismissed because of lack of evidence. Sheriff DECKER stated he

had also received information from his reliable informants that

POPE had nd been involved in this burglary but that BARNES was.

On August 21, 1958, Dallas T-2 advised that he had

obtained information that POPE was definitely not involved in

this burglary, but from conversation that T-2 had heard between

POPE, BARNES and CARTER, that CARTER was the possible accomplice

of BARNES at Natchez. POPE had told I-2 that BARNES was involved

- 8 .

NW 45922

DocId: 32334742

Page 4

---

## Page 5

DL 92-34

INFORMANT PAGE

T-l 1s DL-90-C.

T-2 1s DL-95-C.

T-3 1s PCIl

T-4 1s M. S. ROBINSON, landlord at Eagle Mountain Lake,

Texas, who has requested his name be kept confidential.

OTHER 4

= 12 .

HW

45922

DocId: 32334742

Pace

5

---

