# docid-32288924

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10200-10200

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-1159

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEG, OT

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/16/1967

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

• [Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/18/1995

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF RCMP

COMMENTS : REFERRED TO RCMP, INC LTR

v9.1

DocId: 32288924

Page

---

## Page 2

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2102

Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OTT-4 (Ber. 12-22-65)

To:

Director, FBI

Date:

(Bufile:

Attention

2-16-67

92-2781

Min: Legal Attache, Ortoma

Title

SANTO, TRAFFICANTE, JR. Aka.

(00: TP)

92-112

Character

Reference

A-R

BUlet 1-26-57!

Enclosed are the following communications received from the RCMP.:

two copies of RCMP letter dated 2-13-67.

Original and

* Remarks:

OTT-4, Icc enc

TP, NYL?

to

2-2 DEW: 019

Dissemination

May be made as received

May be made as indicated by stamp on enclosure

May not be made without further clearance with RCMP

ih

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Following offices would be interested in receiving copies of enclosures:

Tampa; New York'l

Status with this office:

XX

RUC

Pending

4 - Bureau (1

Tampa) (Enc

MLI : jhc

6 AMAR 3

196

ENCLOSURE

- New York;

3.)

Do not write in space below

92-

12781-1159

23

FEB 2O 1967

REG. 58

EX. 100

ciL.

DocId: 32288924

Page

2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Ken

Note).

DATE;

11-14-2017

L CORRESPONDENCE TO

•BE'ADDRESSED:-*

THE COMMISSIONER

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

OTTAWA Z, CANADA

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 19 3e

CORRESPONDANCE DOIT

ADRESSEE COMME SUIT

LE COMMISSAIRE S

GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANADA

I OTTAWAY, CANADA

YOUR NO:

VOTRE IN

OUR NO:"

NOTRE NO

92-112

HQ-330-Q-1

HEADQUARTERS- DIRECTION GÉNÉRALE

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

13 February, 1967

Mr. Moss Lee Innes,

c/o United States Embassy,:

Ottawa, Ontario

Re:

SANTO TRAFFICANTE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

JR.

Aka

In reply to your recent letter of enquiry

concerning the above noted

individual, please be advise

that he is the subject of a file maintained by our

Identification Branch under FPS 983123.

You will recall

that we exchanged information verbally concerning the

arrest on 22 September 1966 of 13 hoodlums in a Queens,

New York, restaurant.

In order to identify the names

listed in

a newspaper article of those arrested at this

restaurant,

a name-check was made through our Identification

Branch:

the Identification

Branch:

requested an mattering to taich entificatora

and this is the only reason for our enquiry. There has been

no indication that TRAFFICANTE Is visiting, or intends to

visit,

t, Canada

W

Perry,

S00.

Assistant Offreer in Charg

Criminal Investigation Bra

• ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN 13.

mi:3/50/0 sus del/8AT

(TK)

288924

ENCLOSURN

92-2781-1159

---

