# docid-32333163

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90106-10019

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-117222-122

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: LO

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/26/1963

2

COMANDOS L

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32333163

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John'F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210%

Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

1

FOR SPOTT

12°•

Sullivan

Nasca

Imont

sper

ahan

ach

4-2075

Declassify on: DADR SFK

September 26, 1963

#14:38

Classified by

Declassity on:

416%

RE A

COMANDOS L

861

Reference le made to my memozandum datod

1963,

captioned

"Anti-Fidel Castro Activitios

" which dealt with

use of British tezzitory by anti-Castro groups.

Foz yous additional Information, Santiago

Alvarez

hodziguez, a

responsible official

of the

captioned

anti-Castro

organization which is identical with the ozganization known

as L 66 mentioned in the referenced communication,

advised

recently that the captioned organization was planning to leave

the United States and that Andros Island

in the Bahamas was

the most preferable location.

has sent representatives to Andros ritand and as recention

and has received

promises of cooperation fron certain private individuals on the

According to Alvazoz, Andros Island would be an ideal

place from which to opezate xor the purpose of seusing up a

smols attack base on one of the keys off the north shore of

Cuba

He indicated that the organization,

however,, has no

guarantee that British authorities would allow them to

operate fron

the Bahanas.

On Septembez 3, 1963,

Alvarez advised that repairs

A CHEOWN

on a thirty-eight-foot bost named

"Silvia" had been completed

and that final preparations were boing made by the

captioned

organization to leave the United States, Alvaroz indicated

that he and about toney of his men planned

to leave in the

inmodiate futuze and that thoy would proceed by small boats

to the Bahamas where they would set up a camp.

Fron there thoy

plan to go to an unidentified koy off

the north coast of Cuba

where another base for attack and raid operations against Cuba

would be set up,

Alvarez statod

has frosh water

running inlend from the

four and five feet deep

that the key off the north coast of

donse

There is e

canal

Reportedly,

the canal

and le complotely covered

is betweon

by troos

I05-117222€

FROM DIVISION FIVE

1 - London! i

SEP 26 1963

BEli

CLASS? d0-105.50

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit

DACH OF HOV

1 - 109-584 (Anti-Fidel Castro Activities)

VHN: jej 1

ROOM-[82)

_ TELETYPE UNIT

SECRET

.4

.2

186-81

(0)

UNRECORDED COPY FILED

Eb Sa 1803

see note pg 2

DocId: 32333163

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under

the John F.

Kenne dy

DATE: 11-14-2017

spassinat ton

Records

Collection Act of 1992

1 use 2107 iqie).

SFORET

Alvazos stated

that this 1s an idcal

spot fos his group

to conduct rand and aanocago onoretohe against cuba.

adition, Alvasoz stated that ho had sone medical supplios

In the Mool, Flozidas azon which would be sent fizon

Urit ted

Scabos to the Sahanas and

tho

thonce to the island baso

off the Guban coast.

Transpostation of those modical cupplies

will be mado by anall fishing vossele mannod by Cubans

oporating out of tians close to and in Bahanion unters.

indicatod there wong hundreds of. Cubangfishermon in

Mant using native flahing boots and othor type of mosk boats

cn90g00 10 cornerero, 145h209.

Thace boats floh ofe the.

Florida boys. off the shoce of Flozides off Cey Sal banke

Dahodes; and oft the Groat Bahana Dahka bahamao.

The afore

mentioned boate vesy

in cise from tuonty-five to forty feot

and ase knoun

to arrivo and depart lant at all hours of tho

night and day.

Bone

Chose boats will serve to transpost

supplies com

the daisod stetes to

the captioned enganization's

0030

• In the Bahamas.

U)

Alvocos indicated

that

about tuenty Cubans viti

acconpany him then he leavos and

that others will cone later. (s

The fact that Alvaros medo this Infomation available

to us is for your confidontial intonation.

Should this

Antomation sosult

In tho appzohonsion of Alvarez or any of. his

non oy yauz sorces, no inkathg should be given then chac the

incontacion actually oxie noted wish Aivazaz.

Cle havo. also

nado the Alvazos Intomation availeble

to the interestod

agenotes in this.countay.

NATE:

We have previously pinpointed the locations in the

omas for the British which reportedly were used by anti-Castro

es for attacks on Cuba

It is telt the fozegoing information

1d be of interest to the British, In submitting this informatic

Miami Office advised that Customs representative in Miami had

off-the-record private discussion with the Coordinator of Cuban

kiss,

State Department, Mani, Florida.

According to this

individual although the British Government has publicly announced

that it deplored the use of the

Bahamas by either pro-Castro forces

Or anti-Castro forces,

there was no objection by the British

Government to the establishment of

- cases there by the anti-castro

onces.

This, information was furnished with the

understanding that

would not be disseminated outside the Bureau.

* (C)

Santiago Alvarez Rodriguez is one of the

subjects in

this

se who was involved in an attack on Cuba on March 27,

1963.

coptos made

SECRET

for revier at TatHQ by

3/14/78 18

WIVr

DocId: 32333163

Page 3

---

