# docid-32389825

## Page 1

Date: 02/10/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER :

104-10406-10076

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

• Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53320 Date:

06-26-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

CIA

FROM

: BERN

TO : DIRECTOR INFO GENEVA

TITLE : CABLE: FOLLOWING ODENVY REP AND STATION VIEWS RE

POSSIBLE

DATE: 11/30/1963

PAGES

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION

OSWALD, L H

GIBSON R T

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

06/30/04

COMMENTS

JFK-RH03 : FÖ052 : 20040324-1064204

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10406-10076

120

DooId: 32389825

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTINO

2 !

• DIRECTOR

• BERN

TONS C/Vi14

(MR WHITTED,

WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTRO AT: 1200 30 NOV LAG)

* DEI, D/DOI, DUP, C/6I,

6/51/51

VR

30 Mou 63 IN 7 08 1 8

ECR

T 3014052

RIORITY DIR INFO GNVA CITE BERN 2519

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

...e following action is

authorined: DE SENSITIZE

"DAT GPFLOOR

IF A FERN 2507 (IN 69139)

signed:

B DIR 85472 ti

8.0. 12 - Unit CI/REA

1. FOLLOWING ODENVY REP AND STATION VIEWS RE POSSIBLE

T.,

rita

CONTACT, WITH

GIBSON IN SUISSE BY OSTENSIBLE CONSULAR OFFICER

and soordinat

if a scoriate.

PER REF B. ODENVY, REP CABLING PLAN TO HIS HOS AND ASKING

APPROVAL.

A. JUDGE INANITION WILL NOT BE CONCERNED THAT APPROACH

TO GIBSON MIGHT EXPOSE THEIR TECH OP AS LONG AS AMERICAN REP

REFERS TO STATSIDE INVESTIGATION AS SOURCE OF INFO RE GIBSON

for FOlA Review on

Document Number

CONTACT WITH OSWALD.

B. BASED INFO ODENVY BERN FILES APPEARS GIBSON GENERALLY

UNCCOPERATIVE, THUS POSSIBLE HE WILL NOT: AGREE TALK

RE OSWALD. ODENVY REPORTS RELATE HIS PHILANDERING AND BLACKMAIL-

MAY 1976

259-

ACTIVITIES, CITE HIS STATEMENTS THAT HIS FIRST CONCERN IS

HIMSELF, THEN THE NEGRO RACE AND THAT HE WANTS NOTHING TO

DO WITH THE UNITED STATES.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

24 MAY 1976

CONDUCTED ON

1: 250-5-41

_ IMPDET OK

204

201-289248

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIRITED

BADUP

trader thos

Copy Na.

HH 53320 DocId:32389825 Page

2

---

## Page 3

§CASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 70818 PAGE 2

C. IF APPROACH MADE IN SUISSE IT BEST DONE: WITHIN

CONSULAR CONTEXT AND BY GENUINE CONSUL IN ÖRDER AVOID ANY

APPEARANCE OF SECRECY OR STEALTH IN EVENT GIBSON PRESENCE

SUISSE AND CONTACT BY AMERICAN AUTHORITIES SUBSEOUENTLY

PURLICiZED.

D. INTERVIEW BY CONSUL NOT LIKELY TO BE AS COMPLETE

AS IF HANDLED BY EITHER ODENVY OR KUBARK REP BUT ON BALANCE

FOR REASONS CITED ABOVE BELIEVE APPROACH BY GENUINE CONCULAR

REP PREFERABLE.

E. CONTACT WITH GIBSON COULD BE MADE (!) BY HAVING

CONSUL GO LAUSANNE AND TRY CONTACT GIBSON AT RESIDENCE

#i: +014 489-592116

(2) HAVE CONSUL PHONE AND ASK GIBSON COME BERN FOR INTERVIEW

(3) HAVE CONSUL PHONE AND ASK IF GIBSON WILL RECEIVE CONSUL

FOR INTERVIEW AT LAUSANNE. TEND FAVOR

COURSE (1) BECAUSE

OTHER COURSES WOULD ALERT GIBSON AND GIVE HIM CHANCE REFUSE ANY CONTACT.

F. BELIEVE INTERVIEWER SHOULD NOT TRY ELICIT INFO

FROM GIBSON BUT IMMEDIATELY INDICATE REASON FOR CONTACT IS

TRY CLARIFY ALL BACKGROUND RE PRESIDENT KENNEDY DEATH,

THAT INVESTIGATION IN STATES HAS REVEALED THAT GIBSON FORMER

ASSOCIATE OF OSWALD AND THAT STATE DEPT HAD ASKED INTERVIEWER

DISCUSS OSWALD WITH GIBSON.

G. IF INTERVIEW HELD IN AMCONSUL BERN OFFICE WOULD

COVERTLY RECORD IT.

20 AMB DAVIS AND DOM KELLERMANN BRIEFED RE CASE ON

HH 53320 DooId:32389825 Page

3

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

N forn

1510

i 9!

3

IN.

PAGE

28

NOVENDER, THEIR VIEWS

AS FOLLOWS:

ALTHO THEY RELIEVE

BETTER INTERVIEW JOB COULD BE DONE BY ODENVY OR KUBARK REP

THEY APPRECIATE THAT CIRCUMSIANCES MAY MAKE USE OF CONSULAR

OFFICER ADVISABLE. (FYI ODENVY REP RELUCTANT UNDERTAKE

TASK BECAUSE OF STANDING INSTRUCTIONS HE NOT TO BACONS

INVOLVED IN ANY MATTER WHERE HE MIGHT LATER HAVE TO APPEAR

AS WITNESS IN COURT PROCEEDING.> THEY WILLING MAKE CONSULAR

OFFICER AVAILABLE BUT WISH HAVE INSTRUCTION FROM STATE DEPT

TO THIS EFFECT.. (FYI AMB WHO HAS JUST TAKEN CHARGE DEFERS

TO KELLERMANN VIEWS RE ACTION ADVISABLE.)

3. IT MADE CLEAR TO AMB AND DOM THAT ODÉNVY HAS EXECUTIVE

RESPONSIBILITY FOR OSWALD CASE BUT THAT KUBARK COOPERATING

CLOSELY. DCM SUGGESTED THAT VIEW SLOWNESS OF ODENVY

COMMUNICATIONS CHANNEL IT PRFERABLE HAVE CONTACT WITH

DEPT RE USE OF CONSULAR OFFICER BE HANDLED THRU KUBARK

4

CHANNELS. ELMARD REPLIED STATION PREPARED TRANSMIT ANY

MSG AMB DESIRED BUT SUGGESTED AMB WAIT UNTIL ODENVY REP RECEIVED

GUIDANCE FROM HIS HOS RE CASE. AMB CONCURRED.

4. ELMARD INFORMED AMB AND ODENVY REP HE INTENDED

3

REPLY TO QUERIES WHICH HE HAD RECEIVED FROM KUBARK HOS

WOULD FORWARD FOR HOS INFO ONLY VIUS OF AMB, ODENVY REP

AND ELMARD RE POSSIBLE APPROACHES RE GIBSON INTERVIEW, ASK

HOS DEFER ANY APPROACH TO DEPT UNTIL ODENVY REP RECEIVED

GUIDANCE FROM HIS HOS.

5. KUBARK ONLY. ODENVY REP CONCERNED AND EMBARRASSED

HH 53320 DocId: 32389825 Page 4

---

## Page 5

-"s.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 70818 PAGE 4 -

THAT FIVE DAYS HAVE ELAPSED SINCE HE DENT FINGE MSG TO HIS

HOS AND NO REPLY RECD YET. HE HAS SENT APDITIONAL MIACT

CABLE REQUESTING IMMEDIATE REPLY.

5, CHECK AMEMB BERN FILES REVEALS NO INFO RE GIBSON,

2. INANITION REPORTS THAT INFO FROM LAUSANNE INDIGATES

GIBSON TENTATIVELY PLANNING GO FRANCE WHEN DEPARTS SUISSE

PRIOR TO 15 DECEMBER. DATE MIS DEPARTURE

NOT KNOWN.

8. FURTHER INFO FROM INANITION CONFIRMS THAT ALBERT

SCHWEITZER COLLEGE, CHURWALDEN IS REPUTABLE SCHOOL WHOSE

CIRRICULUM PLACES EMPHASIS ON HUMANISTIC STUDIES AND WHOSE

GENERAL ORIENTATION IS AWAY FROM LEFT IN POLITICS. NO INFO

HAS EMERGED AS TO WHY PROCLAIMED MARXIST OSWALD WOULD

SEEK TO ATTEND SUCH A SCHOOL.

SECRET

Os Comments: #Station inforation on see.

**Queried Station on wisdom and security of beviar ostensille Gossaier officer coi?

in C5su1 and question kim abour e possibie cocrectios rich Osca.

HH 53320

Doold: 32389825

Page 5

ASEE

---

