# docid-32267323

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

9/23/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10118-10048

RECORD SERIES:

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

008105

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

INS

TO:

TITLE :

Released under the John

T. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

444 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53090 Date:

06-07-2017

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

05/02/1978

2

HERNANDEZ SANCHEZ, CARLOS

ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS

"DOCUMENT TYPE:

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/21/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

CIA 148-1.Box 148.

v9.1

53090

DocId: 32267323

Page 1

---

## Page 2

008105

JFK Routing Slip

NO.

5 1978

QUISIDE CONTACT REPORT

Jocument I.D.

COPY TO

INDEX

Robert Blakey

Gary Cornwell

Horan,

Kenneth Klein

Charlie Mathews

INS

Jim Wolf

Carlos A

de tarona,

Sanchez Vector E. L

Pick Pittings

Jackie Hess

Cliff Fenton

Mike Ewing

Fice Peren

Team #1

Team #2

Team #3

Team #4

Team#5

Form #2

Special Instructions:

53090

DooId: 32267323

Page 2

---

## Page 3

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

KING Or

KENNEDY

(Circle one)

008105

DATE 5/2/78

TIME

I.

Identifying Information:

Name Mr. Horan

Telephone

Immigration and Naturalization, 425 C St

Address

Type of Contact;

Telephone

XXXX Person

II.

Summary of Contact:

I visited the offices of Immigration and Naturalization

today for access to the files on Carlso Hernandez Sanchez.

Mr: Honan indicated the Antonio de Varona filë was also

ready. Victor Espinosa Hernandez's file is being sent in

from a field office

and will not be available for a couple

of weeks.

see attached summary of notes taken from Hernandez file

III.

Recommended Follow-up (if any) :

Hernandez notes will be incorporated into materials for

hearing.

Signature:

53090 DocId: 32267323 Page 3

---

## Page 4

FILES OF IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE

for CARLOS HERNANDEZ SANCHEZ

# A 12 437 215

3rd agency Materials:

1.

State Dept - Form FS - 398

10/11/67

2. FBI ID form #257 533 E

12/6/62

3. FBI memo

6/17/63

Havana,

Cuba

6/15/63

alleged plan to bomb Shell refinery,

4. FBI memo

6/18/63

5-8. FBI memos 6/23; 6/23/6/24/7/2/63

9. FBI memo 8/8/63

10-14. FBI reports memos

8/14/63 thru 10/28/63

15. OGA 0 Outgoing telegrams

3/3/65

16. Administrative page - Control office MIA 11/24/70

17. FBI ID form 9/16/70 at MIA

File SECRET

- Certificate of Naturalization for Carlos Eduardo Hernandez

A 12 437 215

6. Jan

-- Notification of hearing for naturalization

sent

: 12/28/70

-- Petition for naturalization #56208

Admitted to U.S. for permanent residence 1/25/65

Address as of Sept 70:

720 N.E. 27th

st

Miami

-- Statement of facts for preparation of petition: 9/25/70

- single

- Last place of foreign residence - Havana, Cuba

- Came to U.S. from port of Managua, Nicaragua

- Father's name: Carlos Luis Hernandez-Meireles

Mother's name: Amparo Sanchez Oyarzin

--

Application to file petition for Naturalization 9/1/70

Address - Jan 25 to present (70) 720 NE 27th St

1H | 53090

DooId: 32267323 Page 4

---

## Page 5

HERNANDEZ, page 2

Employment: Oct 67 to present - Miami Herald,

Accounting Clerk

February 65 to Aug 67 Standard Oil,

Drive way salesman

Organizations: Agrupacion Catolica Universitaria -

Catholic Socialist Group

158-170

DRE '61-'65

MIRR '60-'67

Memo of creation of record of lawful permanent residence

4/9/68

- Application by Cuban refugee for permanent residence 7/25/67

First arpival in U.S. 11/11/59 Miami, Fla

as a Bl-2

(Visitor for business and pleasure)

Last arrived - Miami, Fla.

3/22/65

By Lanica 410 as a

parolee

Single, Occupation: Student

Organizations, DRE, MRR, ACU, Brigade 2506

--

INS-Biographic information sheet 7/25/67

Social security # 267 72 8854

Residence

last 5-years:

720 N.E. 27th St, Miami from 6/66 to present ('67)

3/65 to 6/66

2390 Coral Way, Miami

1551 Pa. Ave., Miami

6/61 to 3/65

Employment last five years:

Student

--

10/7/70

Record of arrests -

No record of such -- Public safety, Dade Cty

City of Miami

Miami Police Dept

9/28/70

Request for file

search of loyalty of subject

"May have engaged in activities inimical to the

best interests of the

U.S.

Biographic informaiton sheet 9/16/70

Last Occupation:

Cia Maritima BAN, Managua, Nicaragua, Clerk 7/64-1/65

HH 53090 DocId: 32267323 Page 5

---

## Page 6

HErNandEZ, page 3

--

Memo 3/27/68 from CICP (signed L. H. Turman)

Adjustment:

Regarding subject's request for issuance

of form I-512 8/9/65 following submission of what

appeared

to be a fabricated letter to support application

for lifting Notice of

Prevention of Departure served

6/19/63.

Case should

be referred to Travel Control.

Reports prior to issuance of Notice reflect participation

in abortive raids on Cuba and militant activity in

other groups which contravened U.s. policy.

CICP contains reports 1-4/65 which

and a number of other Cuban exiles with activist group

reported to be involved in abortive plan to overthrow

the government of Guatemala.

Although the subject may

be characterized as a militant opportunist who would

likely engage in activity inimical to U.S. policy!

there appears to be no basis upon which to deny his

application for adjustment of status.

- Biographical information: INS 7/25/67 (duplicate)

-- Officer's review and

action sheet - Form I - 485A

Approved 4/8/68

-- Biographical information - INS 7/25/67 (orig)

-- Medical and Immigration examination papers 10/11/67

- 8/12/65 RE: Request for advance authorization for parole

into U.S. for return from temporary absence in Costa

Rica, Panama. Spain.

Parole authorization cannot

be issued for purpose stated in letter re: proposed

employment by Dade Collection and Credit Bureau.

-- Memo for file

8/9/65 from R. Neptune,

Subject interviewed 8/9/65 at which time he was

unable to identify company for which he was supposed

to be going on business abroad. Stated that at

present not working for this company, but would travel

to Costa Rica, Panama and Spain to establish new

system of crecit and collections. If the system

could not be adopted he would return to the U.S. He stated

his desire to avail himself of the opportunity to study

accounting at the University of Costa Rica, San Jose.

Handwritten note: Mike- This looks like a fabricated

letter and I think we should deny without going

back to Snyder.

(In different writing:)

8/11/65 Contacted Jerry Snyder re application I512

and he suggests we deny request.

-- INS requesting Hernandez appear at INS office 8/5/65

HW 53090 DocId: 32267323 Page 6

---

## Page 7

HERNANDEZ, page 4

8/5/65 Memo for file

George Davis - FBI - no objection

will

Kerbe -

another agency - no objection

Jerry Snyder - do not issue until company that subject

is representing, gives more particulars as

to nature of business.

6/29/65 INS - to ID division

Requesting ID

- FBI RAp Sheet

One

arrest between

'61-65

9/5/61 Miami for violation of immigration laws

--

Record request to CIA

--

Record

request to FBI

Shows employed at Central Cap Co, Miami

Taxi driver prior to

' 65

Form attched to letter requesting U.S. reentry by Hernandez:

Indicates:

Employed by Standard Oil Co, as service station attendant

8/22/65

Last admission to the U.S. 3/22/65

Prior entries and departures

8/20/62

6/8/64

Miami

Miami

HH 53090

Letter

6/22/65

to INS from Hernandez

Requesting permission for reentry "on account of my work,

attached letter, I need to be outside of the U.s. for

a period not longer

that a year. Countries I will visit

are in Central America- Costa Rica, Panama and in Europe-

Spain.

Letter (attached)

Dade Collection and Credit Bureau, 121 SE 1st St, Miami

=from Fausto Alvarez

To notify that Hernandez planning to visit Costa Rica,

Panama, Spain in order to establish our system of

credit and collection of said countries.

(alleged fabricated letter?)

--

Case summary 8/3/64

Biographic data

10/15/39 born Havana, single, student

DocId: 32267323 Page 7

---

## Page 8

HERNANDEZ, page 5

7/62

Cuba address: Calle 10 #460

Vedado, Havana

Sent by another agency to Helsinki to attend

Communist Youth

Festival

8/25/62 Involved in raid on Havana hotel

6/15/63 Involved in proposed air raid on industrial

complex. U.S. Customs impounded plane and

questioned

subject.

--

Immigration history:

2/23/61

Arrived Miami B-2; paroled 212(d) (5)

7/62

Left U.S. for Helsinki

8/15/62 Arrived New York; deferred inspection to

report at Miami 8/20/62

8/20/62

Paroled 212(d) (5) Miami

6/19/63 Served with Notice of Temporary Prevention

of Departure

Memo for file - ca. 6/23/64

6/23/64

Alfredo Borges requested I-512 for subject to

visit Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Panama. Information

from CO 105 was furnished Mr. Harvey Summ, Rocky,

and Bureau.

Summ asked we do not issue I-512 at.

this time but request Borges furnish more information

as to what part subject played in organization.

Borges was

contacted and said subject was combat

officer at time Pilon was bombed but had returned

from camp because of stomach trouble; that it was

very important subject be permitted to depart as

soon

• as possible.

Rocky, Bureau -- no objection

Jerry Baugh - said to delay issuance of I-512 until

such time as they saw fit to issue.

--

Memo from Alfredo Borges 6/23/64

To Mr. Baugh-Foreign Service of USA

Requesting re-entry permission for Hernandez

Signed Borges, Delegado for MRR AnteImmigracion

--

Letter from Hernandez for permission for reentry

--

Authorization for Parole of an alien 12/9/63

6/10/64 - Document valid for return to U.s. from

Costa Rica and Nicaragua. If presented to Immigration

officer prior to 12/9/64

1/13/64

Same validation as above with verification

of departure.

1/10/64 On carrier Maritima BAM: Destination Nicaragua

NH 53090 DocId:32267323 Page 8

---

## Page 9

HERNANDEZ, page 6

-- 12/9/63

List of cubans -(10) including Hernandez

okaying issuance of forms I-512 to go to

Costa

Rica' and Nicaragua.

Individuals in

group

are members'of MRR.

Letter

requesting permission for reentry from Hernandez

(no date)

--

6/21/63

TO:

Regional Commissioner from District Director,

Miami

RE:

Aliens involved in plane seized by U.S Customs

6/15/63 just prior to its departure for raid against

Cuba, all served with notices 6/19/63.

2 parolees

restricted to Dade County.

- Evelio Duque Miyar - leader of raiders aboard

"Violynn III" taken in custody by British

authorities on high seas 4/63; served with Notice

6/20/63.

Inspection had been deferred when he was

released from Opa Locka on 4/6/63. Paroled into

U.S. 6/20/63 and restricted to Dade County.

-- List of Aliens served 6/19 or 20/63 with photos:

Evelio Alpazar-Perez

Rene Jose Espinosa Hernandez

Victor Dominador Espinosa

Carlos Hernandez

Evelio Duque #A12 418168

Miguel Mario Alvarez-Jimenez

-- Copy of letter with Notice 6/19/63 to Hernandez

-- Notice of Temporary Prevention of Departure

-- Memo for file 4/8/63

From Otis E. Wood, Investigator

Subject interviewed

Said occupied as taxi driver

Sent by another U.S. agency from Miami to New York

then to Helsinki, Finland to attend youth Festival

of the Communist

Party (10 days) then to Berlin

(4 days) then to NYC.

Arrived 8/15/62, paroled to

Miami; granted indefinite parole 8/20/62. Member Of

DRE at time, but not at present.

Subject on raid 9/62 aboard boat "Juanin II". Fired

Shells at Havan hotel. Incharge of directing fire

of canon.

Returned to U.S. at Key Marathon.

November

1962 subject went

"fishing" off Florida

coast on boat "Winnie."

Boat sank, subject in water

one day; picked up by

American fishing boat.

NH 53090 DocId: 32267323 Page 9

---

## Page 10

HERNANDEZ, page 7

--

Feb/March 1963 aboard boat whose engine failed; towed

ashore

don fIshing boat.

Request for appeara be at INS offices 4/2/63

8/27/62 List of persons involved in raid on Havana 8/25/62

Names of interest: i

Carlos Hernandez

Leslie Jose Nobregas-Hevia #A11876526

DOB: 3/18/26

Entered 7/5/60 Miami

In raid on

"Susan Ann" boat

Juan Manuel Salvat Roque

#A12421542

DOB: 5/27/40

Leader of expedition on "Juanin II"

Isidro Cosme Borja-Simo

#A12170266

Francisco G. Blanco-Fernandez #A12821163

(17

names total)

Letter Ahrens, District Director to Regional Commissioner

7/26/62

Re:

8th World Youth Festival

9 from Miami attended:

CIA expressing operational interest in names:

1) Enrique Antonio Felix Baloyra-Herp #A12492201

2)

Francisco Chao-Hermida #A 12171978

3)

Ann Gloria Dia-Silveira

#A 12492452

4) Oscar Alberto Echevarria-Salvat #A 12826368

5) Carlos Hernandez

6)

Jose Ignacio Rodriguez-Lombillo #A 11754008

7)

Juan Salvat-Roque

#A 12

421548

8) Enrique Torres-Larrauri

-- John Koch

#A 12482461

--

Juan Koch

(no record)

Letter to MIami PD from Ahrens

Carlos

- Cuban parolee

of political situation.

DOB Havana 5/29/40

- unable to return because

HH (53090

DocId: 32267323 Page 10

---

