# docid-32286826

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10196-10102

RECORD SERIES : HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-1056

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/11/1963

'PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

-SGI, TESUR, ASSOC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

1B

Redact

12/06/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32286826

65

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)S

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-143 (12-28450)

: OFTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

(Bufile 92-3171

JUNE

DATE: 6/11/63

FROM, : SAC, CHICAGO (92-350-Sub E)

"JUNE"

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA

Character of Case AR

Field Office CHICAGO

Symbol Number CG 6486-Cx:

Type of Surveillance:

(Fochnieal-or

Microphone)

X CONF. INFT.

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

SAMUEL GIANCANA and associates

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered: Armory Lounge

7424 West Roosevelt Road

Forest Park, TIllnois

Private office of owner

• ALL IT ORMATION CONTAINED

•3. Location of monitoring plant:

Central Tesur Plant

Chicago Office

536 South Clark Street

4. Dates of initial*

authorization and installation:

8/8/61?

8/16/623

5. Previous and other Installations on the same subject. (with dates and places):

Originally installed 8/8/61

Temporarily discontinued 4/19/62

aiited.c6

6-18-63

Row

629- +8

92-3171-

6. If installation is a tachnoal surveillance, anguer following questio

NA •

a.

Is a trunk line utilized?

lia

adoping

b.

Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

JUN I$ 1963

'the surveillance on a public coin-operated

telephone?

Bureau

Chicago

DO

Registered Mail

MER : b1g

(2)

DocId: 32286826 Page 2

---

## Page 3

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)?

DATE: 11-14-2017

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each: 1 "mite"

unit recessed behind fabric

wall paneling, in rear of restaurant area near booth in

northeast corner area of, room.

(v)

8.

Is the installation part of

a tel-mike?

of the combination:

If

so, give symbol of other side

No

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

NA - See attached

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

Nọ

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None for same coverage

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency):

NO

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

• None

a. Rental costs for plant premises:

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

-=2=

DocId: 32286826 Page 3

---

