# docid-32572449

## Page 1

8-21-61

PLAIN TEXT

TELETYPE

URGENT

• 10%.

REC- 31

• TO SAC, PITTSBURGH

42-2914-201

FROM DIRECTOR, TBI

GABRIEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR.

) SAMUEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR. RE

PITTSBURGH TEL AUGUST EIGHTEEN LAST. INTERVIEW JOSEPH R. MEROLA

PRIOR TO HIS INCARCERATION AND ARRANGE SUITABLE COVER FOR FUTURE

CONTACTS. MEROLA SHOULD NOT BE EXCLUDED FROM THE TOP ECHELON

CRIMINAL INFORMANT PROGRAM BECAUSE HE IS GOING TO PRISON. EXPEDITE

CONTACT WITH MEROLA.

NOTE:

Joseph R. Merola was interviewed August 15 and 16

last in Miami by two Special Agents from the Pittsburgh Division

and two Attorneys from the Department. Merola furnished detailed

information concerning the Mannarinos and other information con

cerning thefts and burglaries.

Pittsburgh being instructed

to

insure that future contacts may be made with Merola.:

513 you

CORLES DOSTROYED

0o Marr

31972 :

JEK: pew

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG2 1 1961

n a nEn.

"til

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

i Conrad

DeLoach

Evans.

Malone

Rosen

jullivan

javel

rotte

elee

grai

indy

& AUG 25 1961

MAIL. ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

45852

DooId: 32572449

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDÉRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG1 & 1961

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr...

Mr. Gallahan-

Mr. Conraa.

Mr. DeLig

Mr. Evans

Mr. Malonée.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel.-

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Roona

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy-

URGED

8-18-51

12-33

PM

DLH

80 DIRECTOR, FBI

92-2914

92-2918

FROM SAC, PITTSBURGH 92-236 92-228

RE GABRIEL MANNARINO, AKA, ARO

SAMUEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR. REBUTEL

AUGUST SEVENTEEN, LAST• PITTSBURGH PREPARING LETTERHEAD MEMO: ON

INFO FURNISHED BY JOSEPH R. MEROLA. ONE MEMO WILL DEAL WITH INFO

ABOUT MGANNARINOS AND

SeCAKATE

BBON

BANARATE MEMORANDA

TO

BE MADE FOR INFO RECEIVED

CONCERNING OTHER CASES INVOLVING THEFTS AND BURGLARIES. COPIES WILL

BE MADE FOR ALL INTERESTED OFFICES.: SINCE MEROLA WILL NOT TESTIFY

AND INFO WILL NOT BE USED IN EVIDENCE FD THREE ZERO TWO FORMS WILL

NOT BE

MADE • I MEMORANDA WILL REACH BUREAU BY AUGUST TWENTYFOUR,

NEXT®

SAS JOHN SO PORTELLA AND THOMAS GO FORSYTH BELIEVE INFO

FURNISHED BYSMEROLA TO BE OF GREAT VALUE IN CLEARING UP UNSOLVED

THEFTS, IDECTIFYING FENCES AND EXPLÄINING METHODS AND MEANS USED.

ALSO INTO CÖNFIRMS MUCH ALREADY KNOWN CONCERNING BACKGROUND, an

ASSOCIATIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF MANNARINOS AND GIVES SOME NEW LEADS

WHICH CAN BE EXPLORED. SINCE MEROLA IS NOW AT ODDS WITH

MANNARINOS AND MEROLA IS DUE

*"TO COMM

REC- 31

-201

PRISON SENTENCE AUGUST

TWENTYFIVE, NEXT, IT IS NOT BELIEVED HE SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN TOP

ECHELON CRIMINAL INFORMANT PROCRAM AT EHIS TIME BUT SHOURDBE CON-

SIDERED FOR INCLUSION AI OR SHORTLY BEFORE RELEASE

CORR PLS_ EIRST FOUR-LETTERS XXWDS-IN-LINE FOUR-SHD_BE

" ABOUT MANNARINOS AND SEPARATE

pt

END ANS ACK PLS

BEGIN IS 71:

8-21-61

12-38 PM OK FBI WA NA

CC: Zhu. Kility

JEN

HH

45852 DooId: 32572449 Page 2

---

