# docid-32258571

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

10/2/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10100-10129

RECORD SERIES:

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 012801

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 54756 Date:

10-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

HSCA

O'SULLIVAN, FRED

DATE: 10/17/1978

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIVIL AIR PATROL

O'SULLIVAN, FRED

FERRIE, DAVID, ASSOCIATION WITH OSWALD

DOCUMENT TYPE : OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/25/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box #:226.

v9.1

HH 54756

DocId: 32258571

Page 1

---

## Page 2

012801

Investigation

Interview Schedule

Name.

Fred S._ O'Sullivan

431 Candlewood

Drive.

Slidell, La.

Dof B 1-1-38

SoC.

Sec.

434-52-7435

10-17-78

number two Poydras Pl.

504-641-5750

5'11"

170lbs

Caucasian

Bnown

Black

Employment.

Downtown Hilton Hotel

Number 2 Poydras St.

504-561-0500 ext. 3105

No remarks

Inv. Robert Buras

and Lawrence Delsa

14.706

D001d:32268571

Page

---

## Page 3

KENNEDY

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

DATE

10-17-78

1PM

TIME

I..

Identifying Information:

Name

Mr. Fred O'Sullivan

Address

431 Candlewood Dr. Slidell, La.

Type of Contact:

500-641-5750

Telephone

Telephone

* Person

II.

Summary of Contact:

Investigators Robert Buras and L.J. Delsa met Mr. O'Sullivan

at his place of employment in the company with Mr. Boylston.

Mr. O'Sullivan stated that he knew Lee Harvey Oswald from

Beauregard Junior High at 4621 Canal St. Because the names

began with OS they sat in the same home room. O!Suldivan

remembers. Oswald dancing at intermission at school and how

he held himself erect. This made him think that Oswald would

be good in the CAP drill team. O'Sullivan talked three boys

into being interested in the Civil Air Patrol: Joseph Thompson,

Edward Voebel and Lee Oswald. O'Sullivan knew David Ferrie but

can not say that he ever saw Ferrie and Oswald together.

He

doesn't remember Oswald from CAP

activities. He could not

find any documents with both of their names on them for the

Warren Commission and he did check with It. Paul Dyer for

Ferrie's plane at the airport. It wouldn't fly.

III.

Recommended Follow-up (if any) :

None. His testimony or deposition before the Warren Commis-

sion might have a little more detail because it was fresh

in memory at that time.

Signature:

Robert Buras and L.J. Delsa

NH 54756 DocId: 32258571

Page J

Form #5.

---

