# docid-32335951

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90130-10018

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-89360-23

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 02/28/1961

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ TAMAYO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32335951

12

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the Jöhn F. Kennedy AsSássination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-3057

SECREL

1S5056

torth in this report but will

reported in the individual

case files on RODRIGUEZ

and COLOMA.

An information copy of this report is being furnished

to New York since the subject formerly resided within that

division and it is conceivable he might return in the future.

INFORMANTS

Identity

MM T-1 is NY 2865-S

MM T-2 10/EM (731 P518 (5)

MM T-3 is NY 3042-S

MM I -4 is MM 709-S*](5)

Location

NY 134-354

8534-474763,

134-552

105-1750 ]S)

Careful consideration has been given to the sources

utilized in this report and I symbols were utilized only in

those instances where it was necessary to conceal their identities.

B*

COVER PAGE

SECREN

DocId: 32335951

Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017 •

MM 105-3057

(a)

who was acquainted with some of the

(personnel and activities of the Cuban Consulate, Miami, COM)

Florida, advised on November 17, 1960 that MANUEL GUILLOT (XU)

- 1960 on transfer from

Miami, Florida, and spent most of the day at the consulate

Cubai ta

New York City and Miami, Florida, related on December 30,

1960 that MANUEL GUILLOT was employed at the Cuban Consulate LaUj

Miami, as a third class auxiliary

According to MM I-3, CY

GUILLOT and EDELBERTO DIAZ ALVAREZ

Consul General

→ worked

closely together (at the consulate.

(4)

Flaiduba

MM T-2 advised on November 14, 1960 that on or

u)

about October 28, 1960, a male Cuban described as approxi®

mately 5° 2"

, 130 1bs.,

dark hair, visited the Cuban Consulate, L

Miami, and conversed privately with PRIMITIVO CONDIS a Consul

employee, for approximately one hour.

CONDIS sent the following teletype to Captain LUIS PEREZ

Chief of the Fuerzas Mayor (Chief of Staff), Havana, Cuba:](5)

Need money and a contact from Cúba.

Can be contacted urgently through the Consulate."

The tele-

ad type

AIBARIEN

MM 1-2 that the name /CAIBARIEN WAS

Cuba pointed out there is a

small town

4, 1960 to see PRIMITIVO CONDIS in order to determine if the.

, Consulate had received a reply to his teletype request. he

was told CONDIS was not in and no reply had been received

While at the Consulate, WILLYstated in part the following.

*He was in urgent need of getting in contact with

Cuba as he could steal papers containing the names of all

people belonging to the Frente Democratico Revolucionario (FRD

uj

2

DocId: 32335951 Page 3

---

