# docid-32306624

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10290-10264

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-164

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

03/24/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, B/F INT, WIRE TAP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306624

Page 1

196

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mr. Tolson.-

Mr. Parsons.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIBATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR 24 1961

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Congad

Mr. Del

Mr. Evans

Mr. Malone,

TELETYPE

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

• URGENT

3-24-61

Tele. Room

10-40 PM. CST

EAH

Mr. Ingram

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-3171/

Miss Gandy.

MALA FROM SAC, CHICANO 192-3456 38 SeCtatat

Kit Irran

chAt

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. CORPORATE RECORDS,

SECRETARY OF STATE, SPRINGFIELD, ILLO, REVEAL THAT THE WEST SUBUREAN

SCAVENGER SERVICE, INC•, WAS INCORPORATED JULY THIRTEEN, SIXTY, BY

ALBERT J. PRANNO, STONE PARK, ILLO, JOHN C. PONSON, BERWYN, ILLo,

AND WILLIAM DADDANO, NO RIVERSIDE, ILL. REGISTERED AGENT AND ADDRESS

OF CORPORATION LISTED AS ALBERT PRANNO, STONE PARK, ILL. INCORPORATORS

STATED THEY WOULD ISSUE TWO THOUSAND SHARES OF NO PAR STOCK

HAVING TOTAL VALUE OF TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS. IN NOV., SIXTY ARTICLES

OF AMENDMENT FILED SHOWING REGISTERED AGENT AS LOUIS NICKOLAS, CHICAGO•

NOTED THAI ALBERT PRANNO IS BROTHER OF ROCCO PRANNO, KNOWN. LIEUTENANT

OF GIANCANA FOR SUBURB OF STONE PARK, ILL. WILLIAM DADDANO IS KNOWN

AS UNDERLING OF GIANCANA FOR WILL AND KANE COUNTIES, ILL. WEST SUBURBAN

SCAVENGER SERVICE HAS BEEN ALLEGED TO BE

RECORD:

OF SECRETARY. OF STATE CHECKED RE STANDRE

ANOTHER ALLEGED CIANCANA INTERST, AND REVEAL ESSENTALL SAME TO

END PAGE ONE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

57 APR 5

1961

Memo

DocId: 32306624 Page 2

---

## Page 3

/ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

AS PREVIOUSLY OBTAINED. RE MATTER INVOLVING ALLEGED WIRE TAP, SUBJECT,

ARTHUR JAMES BALLETTI ET AL. WASHINGTON FIELD ADVISED THAT ROBERT

MAHEU, ONE OF PRINCIPLES, IS PRESENTLY RESIDING IN BEVERLY HILLS,

CALIFO LEAD TO INTERVIEW HAS BEEN SET OUT. NOTED THAT CG SIX FOUR

FOUR THREE DASH C HAS ADVISED THAT CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF GIANCANA IS JOHN

VILAS, CICERO, ILLO, HOODLUM.

ALLEGED TO HAVE HAD INTEREST IN CADILLAC

HOTEL, MIAMI BEACH, FLA. MIAMI ADVISED THAT INVESTIGATION REVEALS

CADILLAC HOTEL CLOSED BY BANKRUPTCY ACTION, REOPENED A YEAR AGO,

OWNERS, RICHARD BERENSON, AND HENRY HERMAN, AUTO DEALER FROM MASS.

MANAGEMENT VAGUELY RECALLS NAME OF VILAS, DISCLAIMS KNOWLEDGE OF :

GIANCANA• TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPICY FOR HOTEL STATES RECALLS THAT HOTEL

WAS OWNED AT TIME BY FLORIDA ENTERPRISES OF GEORGIA, FRONTED FOR BY

ONE RALPH HEBERT, CHICAGO. RECALLED A MAN NAMED VARLAS AS BEING

ASSOCIATED WITH HEBERT. HEBERT CONNECTED WITH HEBERT MOTORS, CICERO,

ILL. FURTHER INVESTIGATION WILL BE CONDUCTED CHICAGO RE HEBERT

AND VEELAS DE VILAÃO SNVESTICATIN GSNTEVUENGO AMEN AND DANEEROUSA

END

DocId: DocId:32306624

Page 3

---

