# docid-32171282

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATIONSYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

.. AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10173-10101

RECORD_SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-10461-171

Released

under the John

'. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53932 Date:

08-16-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

AQ

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 12/01/1963

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 105-82555-386

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

10/30/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

RPT

HW 53932

DocId: 32171282

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Report Form

FD-263 (Rev. 5-12-55)

REPORTING OFFICE

ALBUQUERQUE

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

12/1/63

REPORT MADE BY

SA STUART J. CAMERON

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERiOO

11/22/63 - 12/1/63

TYPED BY

mls

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka.

IS-R

REFERENCE

Bureau teletype so aid Sad's dated 11/30/63.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2/4/93 BY 9813 Rafgel DUNSTRATIVE DATA

PAGE: 07 C22Ld

Tenori are boing sent to tne

ten ear

As it 16 believeo the bureau signi

matt

to make exten

• disseninaiion.

1020270013

The security inscrani misered to in this report are

as follows:

AQ 51-5 contacted 11/23/63 By SA GORDON JACKSON.

AQ 32-S contacted 11/22/53 by SA ROBERT J. WIRTH.

A0 2078 contacted 1/13%54 V.

contacted

11/23/63 by SA ROBERT

SPECIAL 201

BATHERES

DO NOT WRITE IRI SPACES BELOW

100+

10, 46/-171

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

9 - Bureau (REG. AM) (SD)

6

- Dallas (REG. Al)

2 • Albuquerque

• (105-991)

44.

1434

200: 89.13

airh

NW 53932 DocId: 32171282 Page 2

---

## Page 3

AQ 105-991

In response to instructions set forth in Bureau teletype.

to all SAC's dated 11/25/63

under caption, JACK LEON

Ner, aka.;

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka. - VICTIM - DECEASED; CIVIL RIGHTS,

the

following criminal informants affiliated with or familiar with

gambling matters, Albuquerque Division, were contacted on 11/25/63

with negative results:

AQ 175-C, Albuquerque, New Mexico, by SA j, JEROME MAXWELL.

AQ 133-C, Albuquerque, New Mexico,

by sA J. JerOMe MAXWElL.

PCI RALPH T. TRUJILLO, Albuquerque, New Maxico, By SA

J. JEROME MAXWELL.

AQ 129-, Albuquerque, New Mexico, by SA CARY CARITON,

AQ 141-0,

Albuquerque,

Hew

Mexico, by SA StUART do CAMERON

AQ 181-C, Albuquerque,

New ferico,

by SA STUART &, CAMERON,

PCI E: HOWARD

"THORNE,

Roswell, New Mexico, by SA WILLTAM

EDDY.

PC!

EDMOND

ZUFFEREY, Roswell, New Mexico, by SA WILLIAM

L. EDDY.

AQ 172-C, Grants,

Ned Maxied,

by SA CALVIN D. KNOTI.

POT L. sti

Clovis, How Mexico, by SA FRANK W.

HAINES.

PCI KIT PETTIGREY, ClOviS.

New Mexico, by SA FrAnk , HaInes.

On Noverber 25, 1905g

40 20440

Advised SAW J. WILKINSON

Farning col;

New Menico, that

Sthe

oice wet JACK RUBY in ax unknow

notel in Dallas,

Texas, many years

a20.

The

informant was unable co

recall the hotel

or other people during

this contact. Informant has

never met victin.

aB-

COVER

PAGI

111.

NH 53932

DooId:32171282

Page 3

---

## Page 4

AQ 105-991

at Albuquerque,

On 11/25/63, AQ 195-PC advised SA STUART , CAMERON

New Mexico, that approximately eleven mouths ago

he met. JACK RUBY at the Carousel Club in Dallas, Texas:

met RUBY through

Informant

JACk HAsSLE, JR., and

when the informant mentioned

that he was from Albuquerque, RUBY advised that LOU LIesY at

Albuquerque was a good friend. The informant learned through

HARDEE that RUBY came to Dallas, Texas, from

1 Chicago and that

a "Jewish boy" had the particular section of town where the Carousel

1s now located "all sewed up."

informant states RUBY had a difficult

time breaking into the area, but that he is now quite well off along

with the "Jewish boy," who also has a joint located one block from

the Carousel in an upstairs location;

HARDE mentioned

4O A0 195*PC that RUBY had & "good in*

with the Dalias Police Department

The informant states this

would be borne out fron his observation by the fact that RUBY had

¿E girl operation where drinks were

pushed heavily and they had

no interference fron the Police Department.

The Intornant knew

no specific connoctions with the Police Department and only

personally engaged RubY in conversation for live to ten minutes

Informant stated he is not sure of any Chicago underworid connections

WEy or any subversive or extremiat connections.

he did not

know of any relationship

for Cuba Comittee

bebosen the subject and the Pair Pley

or say asceciation between OSWALC DEd

RUbt

It is noted

dO MADE FR

* Lueltive

aid: 1e presently

subject

which the Savannak

Division te

0f Origin (Buzile:

38-2115674

COVER PACE

17/

53932

DooId: 32171282

Page 4

---

