# docid-32306583

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10290-10223

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-125

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/28/1961

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/16/1998

SGI, ASSOC AND REL, GAMBLING ACT, BUSS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306583

Page 1

,412

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 U5C

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL E: EM 3

IVESTIGATION

U. 8 DEFARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

FEB 2 8 1961

TELETYPE

URGENT 2-28-51

7-58 PM CLM

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Belmont-

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoa

Mr. Evans

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter-

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram

Miss- Gandy

DIRECTOR, FBI /92-3171/

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-349/ 2P

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. HENRY HODL, PAREN PROTECIS

IDENTITY ENPAREN CONTACTED THIS DATE AND ADVISED THAT HE HAS BEEN

GEOPLOYED UNTIL LAST SIX MONTHS FOR ELEVEN YEARS FOR ROCCO POTENZO,

DESCRIBED BY HODL AS CHIEF LIEUTENANT FOR GIANCANA IN NORTHWEST

SUBURBS. HODL ACTED INCAPACITY OF BOOKMAKER, BARTENDER, AND WAS

LICENSEE FOR THE AIRLINER LOUNGE, ROSEMONT, DESCRIBED EARLIER AS

HANDBOOK OPERATION OF GIANCANA• HODL RELUCTANTLY AGREED TO COOPERATE

WITH BUREAU, AND FURNISHED INFO RELATING TO SYNDICATE OPERATIONS IN

NILES, ILL, AREA, LOCATION OF EXTENSIVE GAMBLING AND VICE OPERATION

OF GIANCANA

THROUGH POTENZO. STATES RIVERA LOUNGE IS NOW LOCATION

OF-S WIRE SERVICE AND GAMBLING. NET TAKE FOR AVERAGE DAY IS ABOUT

TWO

THOUSAND DOLLARS. TOTAL BETS AMOUNT TO ABOUT FIVE TO SEVEN THOUSAND.

GERATION IA HANDLED YOU ASTER PROSON, MIESS DO PREE BE

NORTHWEST SIDE GROUP MEETS AT GUYS AND DOLLS BAR EVERY TUESDAY.

NIGHT, PRESIDAL L'YNFORMATION CONTAINED

POTENZO EXCEPT WHEN GIANCANA

IS PRASENT 1968

END PAGE ONE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 5-24-84

63 MAR8

1961

6zu4

serio

ERIn

"Hote).

11.

DocId: 32306583 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USe 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• PAGE TWO

HODL DESCRIBED AIRLINER AS SNEAK GAMBLING SPOT WHICH WAS DISCONTINUED

LARGELY BECAUSE OF SMALL AMOUNT OF BUSINESS. HODL STATES THAT FRANK

SZAFRAN IS EMPLOYED AS BARTENDER AT GUYS AND DOLLS AND IN THIS CAP-

ACITY IS NOT ONE OF THE SYNDICATE GROUP• HODL HAS AGREED TO ATT-

EMPT TO REGAIN EMPLOYMENT WITH POTENZO IF POSSIBLE, AND ARRANGEMENTS

WERE MADE TO CONTACT HIM NEXT WEEK. HODL STILL NERVOUS RE CONTACT

WITH BUAGENTS, BUT WAS ASSURED ANONYMITY. CHARLES KANE, TRUE NAME

CHARLES GIANCANA CONTACTED THIS DATE AND ADVISED HE IS YOUNGEST

BROTHER OF SUBUCET AND OPERATES THUNDERBOLT MOTEL, FORMERLY KNOWN

AS RIVER ROAD MOTEL, ROSEMONT, ILL. EXTENSIVE REMODELING NOW BEING

DONE AT THIS ESTABLISHMENT, INCLUDIN & COMPLETION OF LUXURY RESTAURANT,

LOUNGE AND NIGHTCLUBB. CHARLES GIANCANA WAS FRIENDLY AND DID NOT EVADE

QUESTIONING, ALTHOUGH STATED THAT ANY INFO RELATIING TO SUBJECT

DIRECTLY SHOULD BE DIRECTED TO ATTORNEY, ANTHON Y V. CHAMPAGNE.

GIANCANA ADVISED BUBJECTS FAMILY IS OF SICILIAN EXTRACTION, DESCRIBED

SUBJECT AS ONE WHOM HE RARELY SEES, BUT WHO IS DEVOTED TO FAMILY,

AND IS QUOTE KIND PERSON WHO NEVER HARMED ANYONE IN HIS LIFE ENQUOTE.

GIANCANA DESCRIBED ENTIRE OPERATION OF MOTEL, INVITED AGENTS BACK

QUATE ANY TIME ENDUTE. ARMED AND DANGEROUS (4)

•CORR LINE THREE WD ONE EMPLOYED

LINE ELEVEN OMIT SECOND WD

END AND ACK PLS

9-05 PM OIXXX OK FBI WA US

TU DISC

DocId: 32306583 Page 3

---

