# docid-32320652

## Page 1

Released under the John I. Kennedy ASSa551nation Records Collection Act of 1992 (4T Doe"re not).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

3/31/201

Agency Information

AGENCY : , FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10375-10310

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-1011

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MORRIS

TO:

DIRECTOR

TITLE:

DATE: 11/01/1995

' PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/29/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32320652

151

Page 1

---

## Page 2

To DATE: 41-14-1he John E. Kennedy Assassination Records CoLlection dot of 1992 (11 USE 2107 HoteT.

11/1/95

Directo

The purpose of this note is to provide an update on the

the do anato Record are bore on.

On 11/3/95, the JFK Task Force is set to transfer more

than 11,380 pages of files reviewed by the House Select Committee

on Assassinations

(HSCA) as it examined various conspiracy

theories.

The files released at this time include organized

crime figure Carlos Marcello, anti-Castro activist Orlando Bosch

Avila and other persons of interest to the HSCA.

Discussions have continued with the ARRB concerning

postponements of informant true names, symbol numbers and

"singular"

information that would identify informants if

disclosed. The ARRB has upheld the postponement of the numeric

portion of symbol numbers, but not the prefix or suffix or

singular information, for those we appealed to the President. We

will pursue protection for other symbol numbers in that manner

and will have to attempt to obtain protection for true names and

singular information.

The informant issues are to be addressed

again at the ARRB meeting on 11/13 - 14/95.

The ARRB, thus far, has denied protection for

cooperative citizens whose identities were protected at thei:

request and for neighborhood sources, and other "establishe

sources" who provided information under a grant of

confidentiality, but were not informants. A separate memo is

being submitted on the latest determination on these issues in

nine specific documents to ascertain if appeal is warranted.

(20-14-102-9205-1011

Enclosures

1

- Mr. R. Bucknam, Room

7176

2 - MI.

Shapiro, Room 7427

(1 - Ms. Healy)

1 - Mr. J.

Bucknam, Room 7176

1

Miss Gawley, Room 7176

1 - Ms. Siford/Mrs. Leeper,

Room 7176

1 - Mr. Bryant, Room 7110

1

- Mr. Esposito, Room 7116

2 - Mr. Collingwood, Room 7240

(1 - Mr. Carter

1 - Mrs. Morris,

Room 5829

1 - Mrs. Keeley, Room 5849

DocId: 32320652 Page 2

---

