# docid-32298961

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10224-10241

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

64-23999-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/05/1968

6

WGG, ASSOC, EMP, TRA, FOREIGN POLIT ACT, BOMBING

ACT, CHRISTMAS DAY BROADCAST

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM, SPEECH

v9.1

DocId: 32298961

Page 1

---

## Page 2

i Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note) .

DA756 11-11-2917

FBI

Date: 1/5/68

Transit tar allow.re in -

CONFIDENTiAL plainice or coder

Via

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFTED

AIRMAIL

EXCEPT WHERE SHOW _

(Priority)

_OTHERWISE

Billet"

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-12-206)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (109-48)

GENCIES

2aOM:

SUBJECT:

3p8 mAc/KSR

12/14/83

9-6-94

Classified by

9542 GLHAHR

Declassify on: - DADR 2

12/4/54 SP6 B77A/ECe

#211,32,6

4/is/8

Classified by

Declassity on: DADR

PoD:

1400г

C, MEXNY

Dy roLling dies for

indo

action

date

1-12-65

IS - LATIN-AMERICA

.. a self-explanatory LHM.

Tacosed herewith ior ine bureau are nine copies lilli

confidential source mentioned therein is

/J/

11101

#Lister of "Latin-American Reports," New Orleans, La

As indicated in the LaM,

GAUDET was in Belize

Lduring the Christmas holidays.

Belizelstated that during

visit he heard several comments from acquaintances.

that

TULIP GOLDSON, leader of the National Intelligence

/Party

(NID), was giving every indication of working with

#the Cuban Government:

GOLDSON, it was rumored, was con-

"ducting

a seige of agitation to

reate continued friction:

petween

belize and Guatemala.

M(U)

GAUDIT said that since

he

is personally acquainted

nith Sir JOHN PAUL,

the British Governor in Belize, he

interviewed Sir PAUL in connection with the GOLDSON matter.

The intormation set forth in the LAM is information {ur-

ashed to the source by Paul who stipulated to the source

it such interview would be strictly "off the record."

GAJDIT stated that he is, therefore, not publishing

the information in

his magazine,

"Latin-American

aporis," but that he did want

for whatever value it might be

L" lable to

*о .

CODY

55369-239994

4-59571

1 Bi Breau

(Encs

Orleans

EJC: ente

пМ)

109-48

134-976A)

2 АС

(5)

ENCLOSURE

Bishops

NOT RECORDED

Cau 202 SAN 1 9 196863

SHE-

No-leans

Lns.

Approved CCi

Stecial Agent in Chacg

Ce:

109: 603

(Cuban Sibunsion)

CONFIDENMAL

info.

5: 1

by routing

Date Cir

DocId: 32298961

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Höte)

DBTE: 11-14-2017

222

NO 109-48: emh

LUNFIULINTIAL

Withheld from the mum!is information furnished

tO GAUDIT by Sir PAUL to the effect that British Intelli-

sence is almost sure that GOLDSON is being paid by Cuban

authorities in cash monies by the courier route mentioned

in the LaM.

Further, that British Intelligence is con-

ducting their investigation with the assistance of

Jamaican informants to the extent that they hope to trap

GOLDSON cold when he is contacted by arcourier for a

payoff. (C)

The information concerning the Christmas package

containing dynamite in the residence of Senator COURTENAY

not furnished

by Sir PAUL but was furnished by another

source of the PSI, the identity of whom the PSI did not

GAUDIT stated, however, that apparently Sir PAUL

about the Christmas package because he did

not mention it to GAUDET and that it was only after his

interview with PAUL that GAUDET learned about the dynamite

package.

GAUDEr stated that British Intelligence is

conducting an investigation in connection with the dynamite

and had managed to koep the incident from being publicized le

Inasmuch as the interview by GAUDET with PAUL

off the record and apparently conducted in th

presence of

no one else, the Bureau may desire to closel

consider withholding dissemination of the chi to British

Intelligence since it

is conceivable that Sir JOHN PAUL

nigat receive a copy of the La from

m British Intelligence

and therefore possibly expose GAUDEl as a Sureau source.!

The LAM is classified CONFIDENTIALổn the basis

Also enclosed for the Bureau are

two Xerox copies

oi a speech entitled "CHRISTMAS DAY BROADCAST 1967," which

vas furnished to GAUDET by PaUL..

This speech was prepared

oy Sir PAUL and broadcast to the citizens of Belize as the

Caristmas Day message from Sir JOHN PAUL. Its contents are

0ü being included in the LIM since it of course was well

publicized and of course was made available to the PSI by

3. PAUL himseli. Two copies, however,

¿ne Bureau for completion of its files. (U

being furnished

-2*-

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32298961 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

HER DISSEM

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New Orleans, Louisiana

January 5, 1968

Sp8 mAC/ISR

In Reply, Please Refer to

Fle No.

102/14/83

4-6-94

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINAD

CONFIDENTIAL

Declassify on:

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIAD

# 211,326

OADR

12/4/84 SPbBJA/GeL

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Classified by.

BRITISH HONDURAS

(BELIZE)

Declassify on: OADR

A confidential source, who has not been sufficiently

contacted to determine the degree of his reliability, but who

as an American businessman and by virtue of his frequent

travel to Latin-American countries is in a position to meet

individuals who are closely associated with officials of

various national governments in Latin America, recently

furnished the following information: (2)

During the Christmas holidays of 1967 the source,

while visiting Belize, received information that Phillip

Goldson, leader of the National Independence Party (NIP),

the minority party in Belize, is suspect by British officials

as a result of certain recent actions on the part of Godson.

Source stated that for example, it is reported that Goldson,

during his recent visit to London, England, told acquaintances

there that leaders in the United States and London were

engaged in a twin conspiracy to turn Belize over to Guatemala.

Further, that Goldson in his pronouncements concerning the

relations between Belize and Guatemala, has

. attempted to

bring in the racial question.

This was not further explained

by the individual reporting to the confidential source. (C)

Goldson is further suspected of having possible

connections with Cuban authorities and in view of his current

political activities which amount to attempts to increase

the division between Belize and Guatemala, is suspected of

being paid montes by Cuban authoritles to

create agitation

between Belize and Guatemala®

There is some indication, the

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

CONFIDENTIAL

Excluded.frôm automatic

downgrading and

declassification

ENCLOSURE

64. 23499- NO FORLON DISSEM

DocId: 32298961 Page 4

---

