# docid-32317711

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/5/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10354-10039

RECORD SERIES :

CG

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-350-E-198

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO:

TITLE :

DATE:

10/09/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MULTI SUBJECT: SGI, LST, JRO, CM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32317711

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under, the John F. Kennedy

DATE: 11-14-2017

ancestrason ders no cozegion ser de la is to do tant

ANNE

BLASI

1: 10

PM

2:04

PM

2:13

PM

CG 6463-0%

October 9,

1963

DORIS and (BOB) (?) hold

conversation.

DORIS

mentions that Moond itge derved

1 1a55

night.

GUSSIE'S

others, about one

night.

comments that they ate like vultures.

MARTY (ACCARDO) (?) and IN

GENE

I'IFTED NAN

The discussion centers around a former customer of

MARTY'S, named CHARLEY, who had a nervous breakdown.

CHARLEY

owed MARTY 3 bills. Deel asks MARTY if he

got his money.

MARTY says the guy kept stalling him,

but he finally received the money.

MARTY described

CHARLEY'S strange behavior before the breakdown and

he says

he thinks it was all brought on because

CHARLEY thought he had cancer.

DORIS approaches from the distance and joins the conversation.

Tene

MARTY and the in continue their conversation about

CHARLEY.

MARTY says that once a month he used to

get together with CHARLEY for dinner, and that some-

times JOE and

JOHNNY would join them.

(Although it

is not specifically mentioned, it sounds as if

CHARLEY committed

he was nervous and it was

suicide): MARTY comments, that

the quickest way for him

to get out, that CHARLEY left a note, and

that they

knew he was

going to do it.

DORIS comments, well at

a time like that he was temporarily insane.

MARTY

comment that there was really nothing to the cancer

deal.

The UNIDINIIIED MAN then proceeds to tell a story of

and individual who he knew who thought he had

cancer.

He mentions that this was right after

World War II.

This individual thought he was going

to die.

robberies and bank and

payroll jobs.

About two weeks before the

jobs,

his wife

came down with a strep throat

called in.

The doctor examined this

individual and it was determined that a

operation would cure his airticulties.

individual commented to the

Te that if It wasn't luk

for his wife's col re might

killed

one of these reiséries.

9.0

SEARCHED

358-E-1981

INDEXEDS

SERIALIZED

SALAD

7

00T 1* 1963

FBI — CHICACO

DocId: 32317711 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 21-11-2017

2: 20

PM

CG 6468-0*

October 9, 1963

DORIS asks GENE where he is going.

GENE says, I have

to go, my little cousin, they took his drivers license,

and I'm going to the secretary of State's Office and

get him a temporary one, they suspended it.

DOR IS

tells GENE that DINO wants to talk to him, but DORIS:

says she didn't know what it was about.

GENE asts

DORIS if she told DINO about the message that GENE

left hin

MARTY mentions that on the 25th, at 5:30 PM he has to

go over

to the

traffic court at 321 North La Salle

street, room 3. MAPPY

says he would like to know

what judge was

sitting in the court.

GENE says to

tell him what the room number was and he could find

out who the judge would be. GENE says the ticket

is out in the car.

DORIS tells GENE that DINO is about to lose his buildings.

GENt says yeh,

that's a shame.

GENE says that maybe

he will stop back on the way home and see DINO.

GENE leaves

DORIS makes a few loving

comments to ADOLPH, the dog.

MARTY and DORIS discuss orders for food.

2:35

PM

2

DocId: 32317711

Page 3

---

