# docid-32299638

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10225-10418

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2717-1025

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

08/26/1963

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

ABR, ASSOC, B/F INT, TRA, LOAN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC A/T, NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32299638

Page 1

281

---

## Page 2

DeTE: 11-de-20te John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USS 2107 Mate)

9-3-63

Airtel

TO:

SAC, Philadelphia (92-444)

From: Director, FBI

REC: 798-2717) - 102

ANGELO BRUNO,

aka

AR

EX-103

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

Re Philadelphia toletype 8-26-63-

Rotel reports that PH 611-C-TE on 8-26-63 advised that

Ben Golub, close business associate of Bruno, had traveled to

Washington, D. C., on 8-24-63 to keep an appointment with an

individual

staff of Senator Mike Mansfield. Informant further advised Baker

was allogedly arranging a loan up to $350,000 on Golub's behalf

from the "Small Loans Administration' for the purchase of 'Continental

Vending Hachine."

Philadelphia requested to follow this matter closely with

PH 614-C-TE for the purpose of developing additional details concern-

ing this alleged loan.

After reasonable time period has elapsed so

to avoid disclosure of the source, Philadelphia will request the

Washington Field Office to determine

it a Snall Business Adninistra

ntion loan has beon made to Golub and to obtain full detalle.

Dissemination to the Small Business Administration at this time

concerning Golub's association with bruno and the latter's interest

;in anything Golub

facts are knov?.

undertakes should be withbeld until additional

NOTE:

Knowledge that proceeds of Government loans available to

hoodlums and their associates would be of considerable interest

Bobby Baker is Secretary of the Senate Majority

who has been active with Las Vegas gambling figures in obtaining

ausiness interest in che Dominican Republic, Continenta: Venoine

is heavily infiltrated hoodlum business organization now'i

undergoing

financial difficulties.

Small Loans Administration is apparently

Small Business Administration, which administers loans of the

type described

above.

KAL: erw

(4)

5

SEP 13

MAILED 20

F.P 8 -- 1963

309

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32299638

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PReleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: *11-14-2017

T3 (96704-17-63)

:: 1

AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY Y

• CABLEGRAM

• RADIO

XX TELETYPE

Tolson

Belmony

Mohr

Caspét -

Catlahan

Conrad

De Loachf

Evans _

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy =

URGENT

8-26-63

YO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA

10:33 PM EDST

FJS

261955

ANGELO

-BRUNO, AKA, AR. Antiracketeering

DAILY TELETYPE.

Atrole 20/48

BRUNO IN PHILADELPHIA AS OF 2 PM TODAY. PH 623-C:, AUGUST 22

LAST, ADVISED BEN GOLOB, CLOSE BUSINESS ASSOCIATE OF BRUNO,

DEPARTING PHILADELPHIA 8:30 AM, VAUGUST 24 ACCOMPANIED BY

JOE

WILSON FOR VISIT TO WASHINGTON. WILSON, CAMDEN, NEW JERSEY,

HAS HANDLED SOME ACCOUNTING WORK AND LEGAL PROBLEMS FOR BRUNO:

PH 614 - CT E, TODAY, RELATED PURPOSE GOLOB VISIT TO

WASHINGTON, D.C., WAS TO KEEP APPOINTMENT WITH "BAKER" WHO IS

EMPLOYED ON STAFF OF SENATOR MIKE MANSFIELD. GOLOB CLAIMS

BAKER ARRANGED FOR HIM DURING VISIT, TO RECEIVE FROM SMALL

LOANS ADMINISTRATION A LOAN UP TO $350,000. PURPOSE OF LOAN

ALLEGED TO BE FOR PURCHASE OF "CONTINENTAL VENDING MACHINE, "

DESCRIBED AS BANKRUPT MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTE VENDING

MACHINES.

•* INFORMANT SAID BRUNO WOULD HAVE INTEREST IN ANY-

THING GOLOB UNDERTAKES.

BRUNO TOLD SOURCE RAY COHEN, SECRETARY, LOCAL 107, TEAMSTERS

• UNION, PHILADELPHIA, "LOOKING FOR MY (BRUNO) HELP INÜTHE WORST

WAY."

SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS NOT EXPLAINED. BUT COHEN, SECRETARY

AND HEAD OF LOCAL 107, TEAMSTERS UNION, PHILADELPHIA KNOWN

TO BE LOCKED IN BATTLE WITH EDDIE WALKER, AND OTHER @EFIGIALS

OF 107 FOR CONTROL OF THIS UNION.

!. BRUNO ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

11:03 PM

MGR

1:21102

REG

92-2817-10259

1E SEP 5

3-3-13

EX-I03.

-23

05 ang

second

•0..

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32299638 Page 3

---

