# docid-32328152

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90068-10103

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-75147-210-142

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HAV

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/09/1958

1

AMERICAN GAMBLERS IN CUBA

AMERICAN GAMBLING ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

NW 45693

33

DocId: 32328152

Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

1./

1s.

TO

Director, FBI

ALPATE:

July 9, 1958

FROM

Legal Attache, Havana (64-153)

SUBJECT:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

INFORMATION CONTAINED

AMERICAN GAMBLING ACTIVITIES IN COBS 4/2/82

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

1958.

BY, S14 TRM DHR

Reference New York letter to Bureau dated June 165668 SUD/k06 "

Referenced New York letter sets forth a substantiall

amount of information furnished by PCI

OTHER 4

•cerning American gambling activities in Cuba as well

as Ameri-

can gamblers in Cuba. For the assistance of the New York Of-

fice in evaluating information furnished by I

it should

be noted that the majority of the information set forth in

referenced letter has been previously furnished to the Havana

Office by sources considered reliable. It appears that when

this PCI furnishes information concerning which he has per-

sonal knowledge, the information furnished is reliable. It

should be noted, however, that in furnishing opinions con-

cerning individuals he tends to state generalities which are

not true.

Pages 7 and 8 of referenced letter make reference to

information furnished by NY 1894-C indicating that informant

had been introduced by HENRY "BUSTER SElL to a Cuban, referred

"BOSQUE." Informant was unable to further identify

For the information of the Bureau and New York,

With Cuban gambling since the early 1950s. He was an important

figure in the old National Casino in Havana which operated be-

fore hotel gambling was legalized. In addition, he has been

associated for many years with gambling operations at the

Oriental Park Race Track. He is a known associate of some

of the more important American gambling figures in Havana.

Two extra copies of this letter have been prepared

for forwarding by the Bureau to New York.

62-75-147-310/e

4 - Bureau

1 - Havana

DJB: 1g

(5)

142

09

1bW ,28

a 18

IMAFALICULIAE BEAT REGI

WAs JUL 14 1958

113 0%

1222

84?

NW 45693 DocId: 32328152 Page 2

---

