# docid-32340354

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90158-10011

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-2173-231

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SCHRAMM

TO:

MM

TITLE:

DATE: 11/02/1976

PAGES:

45

SUBJECTS :

LUIS POSADA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO; EBF

v9.1

NN 45924

DocId: 32340354

Page 1

---

## Page 2

40354

Page 2

2-2173-2310

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE 99 8

1859668S4D|mde

JFK).

ANSOOSED

---

## Page 3

HW

45924

DocId: 32340354

Page

3

OPIEO F0

SMEBQUESTLNS TULL MAN

HUNG DI

51132411-2584

-39

(BACK OF ENCLOSURE ENVELOPE 2-2/73-831)

---

## Page 4

TO

FROM :

SUBJECT:

DECLASSIFIED BY 2068.54

ON

4-15-98. JFK

• OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

JULY 1973 EDITION

E PMR 141

CFRI 101-11.0

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

SAC MIAMI

AUDREY L. SCHRAMM

Correlation Clerk

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOGUMENT, JA 10-6-47

DATE: 11-2-76

LUIS POSADA Carriles, aka Luis Clemente Faustino Posada,

Luis Caénente Posada, Luis Clemente Faustino Posada Cargiles,

Ed Bambi.

A search of the indices in the Miami Office and

review of references reflects the following information

pertaining to the above captioned:

105-8922* Unsub; Training of Cubans on Property of Weir

W. Williams, Polk County, Florida 5-3-64. Neutrality

Matters IS-Cuba. Tampa airtel 5-7-64 requested Miami to

determine if training cf Cubans was a CIA operation.

On

5-11-64, Miss HENRIETTA LORI, CIA liaison, covert (protect)

advised

that CIA had no interest in WEIR W. WILLIAMS and

possessed no information

about him or the reported train-

ing of Cubans on WILLIAM's property. Miami RUC report of

SA JAMES J. O'CONNOR 7-9-64, reflects investigation dis-

continued on basis of Bureau teletype advising that the

Department of Justice was not asking for further active

investigation in view of the apparent involvement of JurE.

Tampa closing

report 7-17-64 reflcts a changed title to

show the name of WEIR P. WILLIAMS on whose property the :

training camp was located and, also the name of LUIS CLEMENTE

FAUSTINO POSADA CARRILES, the chief instructor at the camp.

The camp was known as Campo de Insurgencia Jose Marti.

Numerous memos have been channeled to this file and should

No ma homa

be further reviewed if necessary by the Agent.

Statement

furnished by POSADA is being set-forth:

9

CLASS,

Classie on section

DECLASSIFY ON 25X

Declassity

HEREIN IS WH

EXCEPT WEDRE

OTHERWISE

SECRET

5010-110

NW 45924

DocId: 32340354 Page 4

---

## Page 5

2-469

134-712*

PSI. Case opened on Cleveland

letter

file onl

1-1-61.

Letter requested Miami to review INs

Jand furnish pertinent data. Miami

letter to Cleveland 11-27-61 reflects title changed to

aka

INS

file #A12419708 reflected subject born 2-15-28, Cienfuegas,

Cuba, married, wifel

resides

in Cuba.

Reason for remaining in US "political".

Miami

PD, MBPD, DCPSD, Miami Municipal Court and Credit Bureau

of Greater Miami, checked with negative results. Miami

indices reflected on 4-27-61, a list of Cuban names was

submitted to the Miami Office by the local representative

of CIA for

_a name check.

Subject's name was carried on

this list. Above file was RUC'a on letter 11-27-61.

Subsequent serials routed to above file have also been

channeled to 105-8922*.

97-405-23 CIA, Washington, D. C. letter to Director 9-6-61.

Re: Activities of the Unidad Revolucionaria, Anti-Castro

Group. List of 18 members öf the Halcones Negros, their

addresses and code names assigned to them by the UR.

This list reflects the following re: one LUIS POVEDA

CARRILES. Pseudonym: "Czador"; Cryptonym: 10-8; Radio

pseudonym: "Submarine"; Cryptonym: 20-3; Written pseudonym:

"Tiburon"; Cryptonym

30-8; Verbal pseudonym: "Barracuda";

Cryptonym: 40-8.

105-5661-256 FD 306

of SA George E. Davis, Jr., 3/64. Re:

MM 639-S.

On 3-21-64, "DAVY" is scheduled to fly LUIS

POSADA and EDUARDO FERNANDEZ, both members of JURE, to

Airglades, which is located 10 miles sest of Clewiston,

Florida.

They are also scheduled to fly to the Glades

Airport and to Stuart, Florida. They will be looking for

possible training sites for JURE. L

_disclosed that

ROGELIO CISNEROS, who is the principal representative of

JURE in Miami, departed for Venezuela on 3-18-64. JURE

is strongly backed by MUNOZ MARIN, Governor of Puerto Rico,

former President BETANCOURT Of Venezuela, and former

President JOSE FIGUERAS of Nicaragua, according toL

Jalso said that JURE is very well off financially,

and received $75,000 from Venezuela alone last month.

On 3-22-64, LUTS POSADA Of JURE, and unidentified formor ( (1)

OTHER 4

-5-

SE

HW 45924 DocId:32340354 Page 5

---

## Page 6

2-469

SECRET

Cuban rebel army captain, and an American named "DAVEY",

drove to Clewiston, Florida, where they inspected the:

Airglades Airport.

The Cubans were greatly impressed

with

the possibility of establishing a training camp there.

9-1706-216 Miami report of SA George E. Davis, JI. 12-28-64.

Re: Orlando Bosch Avila, aka Etal-Extortion.

A review of

property belonging: to ALBERTO W. JARDINES, while he was

incarcerated in Dade County jail reflected the name of

LOUIS C. POSADA, 750 NW 15th, Apt. 6, Miami, in his address

book.

62-3573-1866 CIA Memo 3-29-65. (Confidential) Request to

be advised re: any derogatory information on LUIS CLEMENTE

POSADA CARRILES. On 3-31-65 advised negatively. (W(≤(U)

2-380-41 CIA Classified Message (Secret) 4-19-65.

Subject:

Cuban Exile Recruits for Operational Teams to participate in

an attempt to overthrow the Guatemalan Government.

Source:

Cuban Refugee asked to join this coup attempt. LUIS POSADA

CARRILES among those recruited to participate in ROBERTO

ALEJO ARZU'S attempt to overthrow the present Guatemalan

Government, as team leader. ((U)

105-6661-625 Memo of SA James J. O'Connor 5-3-65. Re:

Francisco Vallabriga, IS-Cuba.

On 4-30-55,

advised that about a week previously, two Americans and a

Cuban came to his apartment and tried to sell him M-l and

M-2 rifles. He declined the offer, telling the visitors

he was interested only in a .57 MM recoilless rifle. A

friend named MARIA

ANTONIA GARCIA had referred, the Cuban

visitor to

confidentially advised that he

is presently in

the employ of CIA, contacting various

Cuban groups and operates under the cover of an automobile

tire salesman. He is working together with another CIA

employee, ENU (ESCARDA), about.

25

years of age, who formerly

worked

with the DRE at Miami.

(u)

105-8988-74 Memo of SA John E. Mc Hugh 5-3-65. Re: Francisco

Vallabriga. • Letter 1-10-65, which was made

available by

Tampa 187-S*, RAUL ANDRE, a close associate of FRANCISCO

VALLABRIGA, indicated that his group was interested in

LUIS POZADA. ANDRE described POZADA as a leader: öf an anti-

Castro group with a base in Santo Domingo. ANDRE further

SECRET

OTHER 4

-6-

HH 45924

DocId: 32340354

Page 6

---

## Page 7

2-469

stated that from information he had received, POZADA

According to SA JAMES J. O'CONNOR, LUIS POSADA

participates in anti-Castro activities.

2-380-116 Miami LHM (Secret) 5-17-65, re: Roberto Alejos

Arzu; Luis Sieria Lopez, NM; IS-Guatemala.

on 5-6-65, Allen S. Yarborough, US Customs Agent, Miami.

Florida, advised that as a result of investigation,

interviews and intelligence information, it was ascertained

that LUIS POSADA CORRILES, was among the individuals that

were in some way involved

in ALEJAS conspiracy. (B)(U)

2-385-7 Miami: airtel to Director & LHM (Secret) 6-17-65.

Re: Plan of Cuban Exiles to Bomb a Soviet Ship off the

Coast of the US.

6-10-65, MM T-3

IS-Cuba; Neutrality Matters.

a Cuban exile who resides

in Miami

and is in close contact with other exiles,

advised that FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ TOMAYO and his broth-in-

law, RAMON BAS, and the latter's father, have engaged in

talk of dropping a bomb on a ship going to Cuba.

OTHER 4

USCS

REVIEWED BY REJFK TASK FORCE

m 1124/91 dat

IF RELEASE IN FULL

C RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

-7-

SEGRET

HH 45924

DocId: 32340354

Page 7

---

## Page 8

2-469

92-726-394 Miami Report of SA Warren R. Welsh 11-12-65.

Re: Frank Lang

"Lefty" Rosenthal, aka AR; IGA.

The administrative pages of this report re-

flects the Bureau advised that local police authorities

should be advised that LUIS POSADA CARRILES, was in

possession of a gun equipped with a silencer, unless

reasons exist to the contrary. Information was not

furnished to the authorities due to the delicate nature

of information received from CIA and Miami security

informants.

On 9-30-65, Miami advised Secret Service under.

category three regarding the above.

on 11-5-65,

identified a photo of NORMAN

ROTHMAN, as the American who accompanied ROSENTHAL and an

unidentified third American male whom

believed to

be a gun dealer.

thought the third man a gun

dealer because

on occasion of meeting the third American the

first time at a garage operated by DIEGO BorGES, the third

man had a gun and seemed to be very knowledgeable about

guns in general. This individual asked if a sl related"la

be obtained for a specific type of gun.

the silencers involved in the deal between BORGES and the

three Americans were made or obtained by FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ

TAMAYO, a Cuban exile, |

said that he accompanied

RODRIGUEZ when he turned about six silencers over to BORGES.

BORGES intended to turn over to the Americans the silencers

but later learned they were no good.

OTHER 4

-17-

SECXEL

HW

45924

DocId: 32340354

Page

8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

2-469

105-10983-36

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

HAY 18E2 EDITION

3010-107-02

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM :

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM 10-6-97

4-15-48

7/18/66

SAC, MIAMI

SA JOHN E. MCHUGH

SUBJECT:

PSI. CUBA

918197

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

1566850/622

8/15/18 -Гк)

advised that he was personally e

aS ALEX WILSON.

OTHER 4

advised that he was personally acquainted

With LUIS POSADA, in whom CIA has an operational interest.

He advised that POSADA 1s receiving approximately $300 per

month from CIA

He further indicated that three anti-CASTRO

organizations, namely the 30th of November, RECE and

Comandos-L, were attempting to establish a base in

the Dominican Republic and form a military alliance

there of the three organizations for action against

FIDEL CASTRO. LUIS POSADA has been approached to accept

the position

as military head of this alliance.

POSADA

forderly held a commission in the U.S. Army

was in a ranger battalion.

anes?llegedly

according to

because of l

interested in having he esDad t non.

POSACAU SaS

Ssist hin in the Dominican

Republic inasnuch

AIT. INPORMATION CONTAINES!

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFIAD

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

NW. 45924 DocId:32340354 Page 9

-22-

SECRET

Declassily on: PADR.

4/54/83

1/14985 SPABJA/GO 211,326

---

## Page 10

2-469

165-346-951

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

SEC

T

mede

TO

:

Federal Bureau of Investigation,

Miami

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR

FROM

: CAS/Miami

RELEASE GF CIA INFORMATIOE I A

IN THIS DOCUMENT, JM 10-6-97

SUBJECT :

Procurement of Arms and Munitions

by American Group

CAS/M-2155

15 June

1967

REFERENCE: A. CAS Memoranda to the FBI, same subject,

dated 24 July 1965 and 11 August 1965

B.

FBI Memorandum Fixe

#92-726

29 July 1967

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD-LASE

RA 64-15-98 (JFKS

residing at 2635 S.W. 28th

St., Miami, telephone 445-0206

and the source of the information reported te the FBI in

is a contact of this office

referenced memoranda. On 9 June 1967,L

advised this

office that subsequent to the events reported in referenced

memoranda, circa October 1966,

"Lefty" ROSENTHAL who visited [

he was contacted by Frank

that all the silencers he had purchased from |

home. ROSENTHAT told

were pieces of junk and that he felt

land Diego

BORGES were responsible and maybe his friends would kill

and BORGES some day. ROSENTHAL, further stated that

didn't want money from

_ He said he knew

Ito steal such "equipment" and give it to

a leg dys efused to do seat which time

ROSENTHAL said that his friends thought|

had made a

fool of them and ifl

didn't do something to

ROSENTHAL's friends happy,

make

was a dead man.

then made a number of fuse

devices which he gave to

ROSENTHAL which seemed to make ROSENTHAL happy.

In early June 1967.

ROSENTHAL again visited

home and told

that the fuse devices were

faulty and one of his friends had had an accident as a

work. He reiterated a desire to have

or detonatin evices ve cell as rente control unit

for detonating explosive charges.

that he still owed them $5000 worth of "equipment"

19

NH 45924 DocId: 32340351

age

10

-23-

SECRET

6600P 1

xcluded trim automat

OTHER 4

---

## Page 11

2-469

SEC

- 2.

T

3.

On 12 June 1967,

visit from ROSENTHAL at midnight

reported that he had a

on 22 3

June 1967. ROSENTHAI

he had friends who

vould "

if he did not deliver.

allegedly

he; too, had

refused to do

anything more for ROSENTHAL.

advised this office

that he doesn't think ROSENTHA

will bother him again

although he can't be certain.

4.

the FBi on

advises he would be willing to work with

your office contacting |

contatter and the

no objection to

at any time.

It is requested

that we be kept informed of the results of your investigation.

OTHER 4

- FBI

-24-

SHOET

HH 45924

DoeId:32340354 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECRET

2-469

92-726-718 Miami Report of SA Warren R. Welsh 8-23-67.

Re: Frank Lang "Lefty" Rosenthal ClAKASARO OBSECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Bombings - Miami Area

1. *Contacts with

Informant]

Ut)

On July 10,

1967, SA

contacted

IN THIS DOCUMENT, JM 10-6-47

30/H5R

CHER

CIA(JFK)

OTHER 4

WARREN R. WELSH telephonically

stated that he had talked with DOMINGO

ECIMMENDIA regarding the silencers he was to obtain for the

Peruvian individual.

ECHEMENDIA indicated that he was going

to give one of the silencers to MARGOSA, a car salesman in the

Miami area, to waild test the equipment for the Peruvian.

(SA

FRANCIS J. DUFFIN obtained information that MARCOSA was formerly

Hotel in Havana.

Pip Us hotel was oporated by oscar coA,

SA WELSII contacted

in person at

the

Dinner

Key area, Coconut Grove, Florida, on July 11, 1967. (

In conversation with DOMINGO ECHEMENDIA he ascertained

that MARGOSA was well pleased with

the silencers which he

was

testing for the Peruvian.

stated that he was going to

Charge the Peruvian $150 per Silencer, $15 per peneil and $10

a pound for C-4 explosive. u

was instructed at this time regarding

the tenure of conversation he should have with ROSENTHAL

at their next contact. He was requested to make up a l U

TRON CONCITE

UNORASSIZIBO

42X WUDRE SHOWL

OVERWISE

Declassify on: CAN

414185 SP88JA/6CL

- 25.

918|91

CLASSIFIED BY S66S SIS/nite

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

SECRET

HW 45924

DocId: 32340354 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

2-469

story concerning e dummy suasons zaid at his residence

and the Esct thet boosuse of this raid he could not

produce the raquaced expiosiva devices for kOSENiAL. (u)

During the late eusning houss of July 11, 1967,

telephoniasily contacted sA Waist and advised

him that he had jubt boon seatsoced by his CiA supervisor.

• He infosmed him

that he was no longes in She employment

of CIA due to an esdes enorating in Washington, D.C.

He was told that this action by CiA hesdquersees in

Washington had nothing ic de wish edshes his previous

wock sacord with CiA on his peasant congaot wish the

FBI Office in Viami.

had concasuad

Jurishes

seated at this side that ROSeNTRAL

nome

at appooxanstaly 10:45

PM

at which

cine his wife expisined

shsg bea

husbend had

been

in

crouble

and

shat he would

contass 20saNIHAl conoser.

SE KRISI

vis teles

OTHER 4

seated that as sppsezinessly 10:30 AM

on this dese

R057I

he contessed

203213142 se rile rosidence.

WHAl would sos tsik

hds

hone phosa end

to conuses hin so a pee-scaanged nuabes

requested

sad time.

#41

Artes esking this

indicated shee ROSESIRAl

the stalling cactios of

maton to sishes peoduss

fozget abous evesychang.

selephonie concact;

ronely &g

is gave

valed ours

* (a)

niel in teadys

sise 2e1aca3

tines on shis dase, DOMINGO

ECHSMENDIA CSS SONARCELO

hin and

he Auésamed EOHEXENDTA

thso the sustons had

saidad

has house the paarious

day.

ECORMENDIA a68501

Shes this

Esid

pasce nocaing and he

RU)

-26-

SECRET

HW 45924

DocId:32340354 Page 13

---

## Page 14

2-46.9

SECRE!

should not be nocriad about it. ECHEMENDIA stated that

ALBERTO

area.

Qat-S a was dot presently in the liams

Da July 13, 1952

SA WELSH contacted

HORN Sosted Chat

was no

longer

an soployes

Of CIA.

He stated that the Jecision

to release

to vale of the the mat

asme fron their Washington headquarters

Thad vichout authorization

withizarn hingelf from aa

HORK commonted that

was inatructed to

continue

his cooperasion wich the FBI Office in Miami

and that he would be paid through September, 1967,

as lons as he scoperated with this other Federal agency.(R/U)

On July 14, 1967, SA WELSH met with

a$ Dinnas Keys Coconut Grove, Flosida:

stated that he had conforced on this

date with

DOML

was. not in town.

Shat he was

going to place a sepcific onder of explosives withl

until he found out exactly what MAaSIRE and the Pa

ranted, insofue as volume of explosive nutcrial.

LEON NOS LINE.

said shat he had heard nothing more

He furthes indiesend that inasnuch as he is

not presently employed iu

the Mismi area he was contem-

plating

кури за рї)

to

Venezuela in ordes to secure a permanent

OTHER

- 27-

SECREY

HH 45924 DocId:32340354 Page 14

---

## Page 15

SECRET

2-469

. OTHER 4

On July 15, 1967,

phonically contacted by SA WELSH

was tele.

advised that DOMINGO ECHUMENDIA advised

that ALBERTO LARRAIN-MAESTRE had returned to Miami on

this date.

He stated that ECHEMONDIA and MAESTRE were

going to meet lates on this date in the southwest section

of Miami. According to

after this meeting

ECHEMENDIA would contact

him regarding the volume and

type of explosives wanted by MAESTRE. A(U)

July 18, 1967, SA WELSH met in person

with

Flozica.

414

In the Dinner

Key area, Coconut Grove,

stated that he had just finished talking

to DOMINGO ECHEMANDIA: He ascertained that ALBERTO LARRA IN-

MAESTRE had not participated in the bonbing of a Miami

police offices in the southwest section of Miami.

MAESTRE had left with NORMAN NOTHUAN on either Sunday

merloaN flumorning for an unknown destination out

ECHEIENDIA celated to

that a policeman

by the name of DOBSON or DAuSoN

was helping the "mos

boys":

ECHEMONDI4 alan related that he had heard that

ALBERTO LARRAIN-MARSTRE and NORMAN ROTHMAN were reSponsible

for the recent bon

vegas, Nevada. Muling aù the i

inderbird Hotel in Las

On July 24: 1967,

phonically contacted by SA WELSH

was tele-

stated that on July 20,

1967, FRANK

ROS ENTHAL

had contacted him at his residence.

at this time told ROSENTRAL that he was no longer interested y

(4)

- 28_

4

SECRET

NH 45924 DocId:32340354 Page 15

---

## Page 16

2-469

SECREN

in obtaining explosives

for him

and that he wished

to have no furthas desiings with him. After hearing

this, ROSENIMAL became very inate and gave back to

a number of pencils that he had previously

secured fron him.&,

(u)

stated that he became very upset over

the conduct of ROSININAL and squested him

to leave

his residence in three seconds ore t

in the head.

After this threat by

he vonza

shoot hin

old him "chst soneday wha

ROSENTHAL

would ba killad". #uhe was playing sin runny

On August 1, 1967,

Pas

contacted telephonically by SA wilSil. *(u

stated that on this date he had been

in contact wish

DOMINICO BONGMENDIA, BOELISNDIA stated

that NORMAN ROCNNAN had gone to the Hollywood, Califoznia

ared end ALSERDO LARKATN-WARSTRE had deparced

Source could

two visits. Hu

not losen the ducation of richer of these

he stated that he was no longer going to

contact DOMINGO NONZuaNOId and iold this indivadual

that be conto

no longee supply him with explosive

material. &u

On Anguat 4, 1967:

was contacted

in person

by SA WISH as the corner of US 1 and Bird

stated that several days after Ms last

confrontation

Rich ROSENINAL be received a

letter in the

mail fron an

eaknown individual.

He stated that the

contents of this

letter consisted of sight pennies which

were hold eugnthe by secton tape and a .350 saliber

not knou the

significance of either

of the items

sithough ha

sunnised that ROSENNAL had sent

these

things to him.

OTHER 4

5

-29-

SECRET

NW 45924 DocId:32340354 Page 16

---

## Page 17

SECRET

2-469

stated that he had heard nothing during

the past

week

Exon FRANK ROSENIHAL and has told DOMINGO

ECHEMNDIA not to contact him. #(u

In conclusion.

stated that he was

contenplating

Caracas, Venezuela, on Tuesday,

August 8, 1967.

OTHER

4

- 30-

SECRET

HW 45924

DocId: 32340354 Page 17

---

## Page 18

2-469

SECRET O

92-1902-7

Miami Letter to Pittsburgh 9-22-67: Re:

OTHER 4

Walter Joseph Plopi, aka AR. 00-PG. On 8-4 and 9-19-67,

On both occasions he indicated that he had had no futher

to at a ena mad no acted c(d)

contact with FRANK ROSENTHAL and had heard nothing more

about bombings in the Miami area. Case Closed.

105-1729-1853 FD 302 of Ricardo Morales Navarrete 5/22/68.

Information furnished to SA Joseph C. Ball, re: Venezuelan

Political Activities. Cuban nationals LUIS POSADA and

GUSTAVO ORTIZ are in

charge of Section 1 of the General

Directorate of Police (DIGIPOL), the Venezuelan secret

plice.

This section is in charge of all Cuban activities

and movements in Venezuela. POSADA and ORTIZ reportedly

have gained such control that every Cuban who enters or

leaves Venezuela is required to submit to an interview

by this section.. POSADA is a "gangster type". and he and

ORTIZ are reportedly very effective, using strong-arm

methods to obtain information and fight pro-CASTRO elements.

For example, if an individual is identified as a CASTRO

supporter, they do not bother to question him or advise

him of any rights but simply eliminate him. They are under

the direct supervision of ERASTO FERNANDEZ, the head of

DIGEPOL.

ERASTO FERNANDEZ has recently been under in-

vestigation by high Venezuelan authorities. DIGEPOL

recently arrested two Venezuelan students who were su-

sequently found dead and FERNANDEZ has been under in-

vestigation by the Venezuelan Senate because of those

and other similar activities. FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ TAMAYO,

also known as

"B1 Mexicano

105-14883-241 Memo of SA Samuel W. Jones 2-25-70. Re:

(S)[Scatter) IS-Cu. On 2-10-70, LYDIA DE LA CRUZ, who is the

wife of EPIFANIO ROMERO, advised her husband left Miami on

11-30-69, for the purpose of making a trip to Cuba to

bring back Cuban refugees, she has not seen or heard from

him since.

The name of LUIS POSADA was among others found

in ROMERO's

address book furnished by his wife.

-31-SECREL

HW 45924

DocId: 32340354

Page 18

---

## Page 19

2-469

DELICA

105-11869-314 Memo of SA William Mayo Drew 6-28-72. Re:

ELC - Alanis. On 6-19-72, MM 974-S, made available a

letter mailed in Venezuela by one C. GONZALEZ, P. 0.

Box 50187, Caracas.

Informant advised that the letter is

from JORGE ROBLEJO of the Comite de los Cien. The

following is just the portion of the letter that mentions

POSADA: (NU

Another thing is CASTRO - nobody could imagine

every Cuban that arrives, he seems to know about and offers

himelf to help them, but he was ordered to do this by Mr.

LUIS POSADA, alias

"El Bambi" of RECE. He is in the

DISIP as a commissioner or informant; and last year they

made a deal.

They pay CASTRO 1,5000 bolivares for the job,

and he passes it on to Mr. POSADA. Mr. POSADA sent to Miami

a man named EUGENIO AGUILERA EXTRADA, a teacher, Cuban, born

and agents there.

an sanelo, era lunate investigations these of groups

174-940-472 Insert of SA Eugene J. Flynn. Re: Mibom.

Detective JULIO OJEDA, DCPSD, Homicide Section furnished

a list of individuals as bomb suspects. The name LUIS

POSADA, aka "Bambi" appears on this list.

105-21892-1041 FD 306 of SA SINECIO GUTIERREZ 6-22-76. Re:

MM 974-S. On 6-18-76, Informant advised there are several

Cuban persons in Venezuela who are prominent and wealthy

that are assisting in funding of Cuban exile action groups,

such as FINC and Accion Cubana. The persons who are con-

tacted by ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA and FRANK CASTRO are: DI.

GUIDO FORGAL, DR. GUSTAVO ORTIZ-FAZ (DVM), DR. AURELIO

ALVAREZ ECHEZARRETA, DR. SALVADOR ROMANI Y O RUE, MR.

JOAQUIN FRIAS, MR. JOSE GONZALEZ and MR. LUIS POSADA.

POSADA, aka "El Bambi" has a private

investigative agency. gou)

SFCRET

-32-

NH 45924 DocId:32340354 Page 19

---

## Page 20

2-469

PAGE TWO SECRET

HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO IS A NEWS PHOTOGRAPHER

AND FREE-LANCE RE-

PORTER AFFILIATED WITH THE MAGAZINE "VISION," AND HE IS ALSO EMPLOYED

AS AN INDUSIRIAL INVESTIGATOR BY INVESTIGACIONES COMERCIALES E IN-

DUSTPTALES, C.A. (ICI), AN INDUSTRIAL SECURITY FIRM OPERATED SY LUIS

POSADA FORMER HEAD OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE DIVISION, CARACAS,

VENEZUELA. (52

POSADA, A CUBAN EXILE WHO IS NOW A VENEZUELAN CITIZEN, IS STRONGE

ANTI-CASTRO AND WAS SUSPECIED OF HAVING BEEN THE MAIN SUPPORTER OF

ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA DURING BOSCH*S PRESENCE IN VENEZUELA PRIOR TO LIS

ARREST ON NOVEMBER 19, 1975 .*ELEGAI BECAME ACQUAINTED WITHLFOSADA IN

THE COURSE OF OFFICIAL BUSINESS DURING PERIOD ROSADA WAS AN OFFICIAL

OF DISIP. 6)

HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO FIRSI BECAME KNOWN TO LEGAT IN APPROXIMATEL

JUNE, 1974, WHEN HE CONTACTED LEGAT FOR ASSISTANCE IN EXPEDITING THE

PROCESSING OF A VISA IO THE U.S. THAT HAD BEEN REGUESTED FOR THE MINOR

SON OPETHE THENGIRECIOR OF DISIP, DR. PEDRO ARTURO TORRES AGUDO JS)

LEGAT WAS LED TO BELIEVE RICARDO WAS AN ACTIVE MEMBER OF DISIP AND

ASSISTANCE WAS PROVIDED THAT RESULTED IN THE PROMPT ISSUANCE OF A

VISA TO THE CORRES AGUDO HILOS

RICARDO RECONTACIED LEGAT A FEW WEEXS LATER TO EXPRESS HIS

APPRECIATION FOR ASSISTANCE PREVIOUSLY RENDERED, AND LEGAT THEN

SECRET

HH 45924 DocId: 32340354 Page 20

-34-

---

## Page 21

2-469

PAGE THREE SECRET

CAME ANARE RICARDOELAS MERELY AN AUXILIARY GENER OF DISIES, AND THAT

(3}

HE WAS ACTUALLY IN THE PERSONAL SERVICE OF LUIS POSADA. RICARDO RE-

VEALED HE WAS ALSO A NEWSPAPER REPORTER AND PROTOGRAPHER AFFILIAIED

WITH THE MAGAZINE "VISION," AND INDICATED HE DEVOTED MOST OF HIS TIME

RESEARCHING NEWS ARTICLES INTENDED TO DISCREDIT THE CASIRO GOVERN-

MENT• HE CLAIMED PARTIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR A NEWSPAPER ARIICLE THAT

APPEARED IN A CARAÇAS NEWSPAPER ABOUT IHAI TIME, REVEALING THE

PRESENCE OF CUBAN INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS IN CUBAN EMBASSY IN CARACAS

RICARDO CONTACTED LEGAT APPROXIMATELY FOUR TIMES AFTER IKE

INITIAL VISII, AND ON TWO OCCASIONS FURNISHED PHOIOGRAPHS AND

BIOGRAPHICAL DATA ON MEMBERS OF THE CUBAN EMBASSYKWKICH WERE E

OBVIOUSLY OBTAINED FROMDISIP FILES. DURING ONE VISIT, RICARDO

SUGGESTED LEGAT MIGHT WISH TO MAKE SOME SUGGESTIONS REGARDING

COURSES OF ACTION IHAT MIGHT BE TAKEN AGAINST THE CUBAN EMBASSY

IN CARACAS BY AN ANTI-CASIRO GROUP OF WHICH HE FORMED PARI.

LEGAT INFORMED RICARDO SUCH WAS NOT PARI OF THE FUNCTION

OF THE LEGAL ATTACHE'S OFFICE, AND THAI IN ANY EVENI,

LEGAT PERSONALLY ABHORRED TERRORIST ACTIVITIES REGARDLESS OF WHOM

THEY MIGHT BE DIRECTED AGAINSI. LEGAI POINIED OUT TO RICARDO THAT

THE U.S. GOVERNMENT WAS DOING EVERYTHING IT COULD TO PREVENT DISRUP

(и)

- 35-*

SECRET

NN 45924 DocId: 32340354 Page 21

---

## Page 22

2-469

PAGE SEVEN SECRET

IN A CONVERSATION WITHDRAN OFFICIAL OF DISION OCTOBER 1, 1976,

LEGAT BROACHED THE SUBJECT OF RICARDO AND OF THE FAINT SUSPICION THAI

RICARDO MAY HAVE BEEN SOMEHOW INVOLVED IN THE BOMBING OF THE GUYANESE

CONSULATE IN PORT-OF-SPAIN. LEGAT ADMITIED THERE WAS NO SUBSIANIIVE

EVIDENCE OF RICARDO'S IMPLICATION,BUT THAT THE COINCIDENCE OF HIS -

PRESENCE IHERE AT IHE APPROPRIATE TIME, COUPLED WITH HIS EMPLOYMENT

RELATIONSHIP WITH LUIS POSADA, MAD GIVEN LEGAT CAUSE TO WONDER.

THE ISIP OFFICIAL PELATED DISIE HAD NO REASON TO BELIEVE RICARDO WAS

THE CALIBER OF INDIVIDUAL THAT WOULD BE UTILIZED IN SUCH AN OPERATION,

AND THAT RICARDO WAS NOI KNOW TO BE INVOLVED IN SUCH ACTIVITIES, IN

SPITE OF HIS ASSOCIATION WITH POSADA

stia

ON OCTOSER 3, 1976, A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ABROAD ADVISED HE

HAD DISCOVERED THAT THE INDIVIDUAL ARRESTED IN TRINIDAD, AND WHO

IS IN POSSESSION OF THE VENEZUELAN PASSPORT ISSUED TO JOSE VAZQUEZ

GARCIA, IS ACTUALLY HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO. HE SAID HE DETERMINED

THAT RICARDO AND FREDDY LUGO; THE OTHER VENEZUELAN ARRESTED IN

TRINIDAD, HAD BEEN PARI OF THE SUPPORT GROUP IN THE SABOTAGE

OPERATION AGAINST THE CUBANA AIRLINER IN BARBADOS. HE SAID TRE

OPERATION HAD NOT GONE AS PLANNED BECAUSE IT WAS INTENDED THAI

THE BOMB SHOULD EXPLODE BEFORE THE AIRCRAFT TOOK OFF FROM BARBADOS.

THE SOURCE STATED THAT APPAPENTLY INE TIMING MECHANISM ON IRE BOMB

HAD NOT BEEN PROPERLY SET

(24)

1

SECRET

- 39-

NW 45924 DocId: 32340354 Page_ 22

---

## Page 23

2-469

PAGE EIGHT SECRET

THE SOURCE RELATED THAI LUIS POSADA AND ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA

HAD NOT YET LEFI VENEZUELA, BUT THEY WERE PREPARED TO DO 50 IF

IT WAS FELT NECESSARY

SOURCE INFORMED THAI FRANK CASIRO, CO-FOUNDER OF CORU WITH

ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, DEPARTED CARACAS, VENEZUELA, ON OCTOBER 3,

1976, FOR SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO, ABOARD PAN AMERICAN FLIGHT 46S.

HE SAID CASTRO UTILIZED HIS US PASSPORI, NO. 297917, AS IRAVEL

DOCUMENT

(u)

ON OCTOBER 8, 1976, A SECOND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ADVISED ME HAD

BEEN INFORMED THAI CUBAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE OFFICERS HAD PROCEEDED

TO PORI-OF-SPAIN, IRINIDAD, FROM CUBA ON OCTOBER T, 1976, AND HAD

SUBJECTED THE TWO ARRESTED VENEZUELANS TO INTENSIVE INTERROGATIONS

• RICARDO WAS BORN ON DECEMBER 9, 1954, AT CARACAS, VENEZUELA.

HE HOLDS VENEZUELAN PASSPORI NO. 358939, ISSUED ON MAY 14, 1975,

AT CARACAS. HE HAS VENEZUELAN IDENTITY CARD (CEDULA) NO.

v 3821587. 1

4)

CLASSIFIED BY 4423, XEDS, CAPEGORIES 2 AND 4, INDEFINITE.

ADMIN TO FIELD AND LEGATS ONLY:

ADMINISTRATIVE: CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE IS

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE DIVISION, DISIP, CARACAS,

OTHER 4

VENEZUELA.

4.

SECRET

-40-

HH 45924 DocId:32340354 Page 23

---

## Page 24

2-469

PAGE NINE SECRET

OTHER 4

THE SECOND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ISL

G)

SPECIAL ADVISOR TO

DIRECTOR, DISIP, CARACAS, VENEZUELA IM(S)

INE DISIP OFFICIAL MENTIONED IS RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE.

LEGATS MEXICO CITY AND BUENOS AIRES ADVISED SEPARAIELY.

BI

2834821

MM

÷41-

SECRET

NW 45924

Docid: 32340354/ Page

24

---

