# docid-32337188

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90136-10231

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-70973-82

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 04/03/1961

PAGES:

42

SUBJECTS :

WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS : Consulted; 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS: SUMMARY; REFERRED TO DOJ

v9.1

DocId: 32337188

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET.

PSI Hugo Gonzalez La Jonchere (protect idenilty) advised

that on 4/20/59 Major Eloy Gutierrer Menoyo, leader against the

government of Batista, left Havana to visit Miami at the invitation

Of Miami's mayor. Tony Beacon was appointed denoyo's press secretary

on this trip

and was paid by Nick Bartone, an American who was attempting

to sell tira's (Globemaster-I) to Cuba through the influence of

Willian Alexander organ,

Morgan was a major in the forces of the

second Motional tront Of Bacambral lyraaaz).

Captain Raul Cros of the Cuban Revolutionary Air Force

(protect identity) confirmed the fact that Morgan was attempting

to sell C-74's to the cuban Government. (KU)

105-78831-1

(14)U

The 4/26/59 issue of the "N.Y.

Times" contained an article

entitled, "U. S. Warns Citizens In Castro's Forces", which stated that

any U. So

citizen who serued in the cuban armed forces faced possible

loss of citizenship.

Major William Morgan was a well known American

in the Castro forces.

109-480-A "N.. I. Times". 4/26/59

On 6/16/59 Jose Paula,

owner of Paula's Restaurant, 435

advised that he was active in the July

He stated that in April

1958 William A. Morgan, a doorman at the Bowery Night Club, 1747

Paul advised Morgan to go to. Cuba and

contact someone in the

underground movement. Thereafter, morgan went

to cuba, participated in the cuban revolution and later emerged as one

of the commanders of the second Front in the Escambray Mountains.

Paula stated that he had not seen Morgan since the spring of 1958

but two months ago Morgan had stopped at his restaurant to say hello.

Paula stated he was not in at the time and could furnish no information

"concerning Morgan's visit-to Miami.

He said many Cuban exiles and

revolutionaries preguented his restaurant but he had no information

concerning any possible contact between the CP, USA and the CP of

Cuba.

He stated he could furnish no information concerning Paul

Joseph Hughes. (105-72805).

(Xu)

105-78805-25

(9) V

=6-

SECRET

DocId:32337188 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREI

Rodriguez Couceiro, a Cuban

exile in Miami, and opposed to the Castro Government, furnished

information concerning his part in May, 1959, in the plan to seize

the Isle of Pines, Cuba. He stated that he had conferred with General-

issimo Irujillo and General Jose E. Pedraza of the Dominican Republic

regarding arms to defend the Isle of Pines once it was taken but they

turned him down stating that they had other plans. Rodrigues believed

they told Major William A. Morgan of this plan because Morgan was

dealing with them at that time.

Rodrigues said that following his

Cans gith trajille and redrazo the entire milltory personnel was

on the Isle of Pines which made his plan impossible.

97-3965-9 p. 4

(9)4

on 5/22/59 the Legat at Havand aduised that former PCI

Freddy De Marigny advised the day before that Raul Castro had supplanted

leaders of thel second National Front of Escambray with his own followers.

This action enraged both leaders and followers of this group of which

109-12-210-570

on 4/19/60 Humberto Rojas (105-83192) former mayor of San

cristobal, tuba, aduised he was required to leave Cuba in June 1955

because he had been involved with William Alexander Morgan who

betrayed an anti-castro plot to the cuban Government. (d

105-83192-3 p. 12;13

(17)4

on 6/2/59 Richard Bowman Jaffe (100-76864), associate in

anti-Castro activities with Rolando lasferrer, aduised that he had

received information from his Cuban associates

to the effect that

William Alexander Morgan now had taken several thousand men away from

the forces of Fidel Castro.

He had no information regarding their

location or the type of activity the men were engaged

in. (7Xu)

105-76864-7 p. 17

(14)V

SECRETI

-7-

DocId: 32337188

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

on 1/7/60 Fredesuindo Bosque Cueto (105-79112) furnished

information that about the middle of 1959 he attended a meeting at

the DuPont Plaza Hotel, Miami between William Alerander Morgan, Dominick

Bartone and Dominican Consul General Augusto Ferrando. Morgan wanted

a sun of money turned over to hin as an expression of good faith on

the part of the Dominican Republic. Bartone stated that it was believed

at that time that Morgan was planning to carry out a counter revolution

against Fidel Castro. Bosque stated that Ferrando gave him $50,000.00

At another meeting

(no date) between the same individuals

Bosque had a disagreement with Morgan.

Bosque reached the conclusion

that Morgan was lying and was not going to carry out his revolutionary

plan.

He stated he had not seen him since.

Bosque said money was

subsequently delivered to Morgan which he believed had been brought

from the Dominican Republic by Manuel Perez Sasa, an inspector of

Dominican Consulates.

Bosque admitted that at the two meetings he

had been acting on behalf of General Jose Pedraza, leader of a group

of anti-castro cubans in the Dominican Republic (4))

105-79112-28

(3/14)

S1 105-81961-24 p. 9,10

(4,164

PSI Thomas Albert Thompson (protect identity) advised

that Alberto Lopez (97-3906) stated on July 17 and 19, 1959, that

Dominick Bartone called William Alexander Morgan in Havano.

He stated

that the conversation probably concerned a B25 aircraft seized by the

U. S. Customs at Tampa, Fla. on 7/18/59.0€

It was noted that Bartone was a Cleveland, Ohio plane

salesman, who was arrested on 5/22/59 with Augusto Ferrando, Dominican

Consul General, Miami, in connection with a gun shipment to

97-390652 p. 6

SECRETI

- 9.

DocId: 32337188

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the JohnF. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

on 7/29/59 Comandante William Morgan, honorary major in the

Cuban Revolutionary Army advised that he was acquainted with Richard

Meredith Sanderlin (105-73703) and had recently seen him in Havana

where sanderlin resided. Morgan stated that Sanderlin was still in

the cuban revolutionary Army but he did not know whether he had a

specific assignment.

He stated he was possibly instructing in some

matter due to the bad condition of his arm which was wounded with

gunshot during the revolution.

Morgan stated that cuban doctors wanted

to amputate the arm but on specific instructions from Fidel Castro

were still trying to save it.

105-73703-19 р. 2,3

(3)14

Mariano Faget, former Chief of Bureau for Repression of

Communist Activities in Cuba (protect identity) advised that William

Alexander worgan had been in Miami the latter part of July 1959 and

had been in contact with Augusto Maria Ferrando. (109-64) Ferrando.

had taken Morgan to the Dominican Republia (no date) because Morgan:

had agreed to cooperate with the Dominican Republic in an attack on

Cuba against Batista.

It was alleged that Ferrando gave Morgan $152,000

cash to aid the dominicans in the invasion of Cuba.

$100,000 of this

money had been delivered in cash in a paper bag on 7/29/59. Inft.

advised that Morgan had duped the Dominican Republic into believing

he was aiding them in their attempt to defeat Castro, while actually

he was an agent for Castro. Policarpo soler, a Cuban, was also involved

in the plot to have morgan assist the Dominican Republic Gouernment.

He had reportedly been killed by Generalissimo Trujillo. Inft. felt

that Ferrando was in fear of his life although he claimed he had no

responsibility in the Morgan matter. ( lA

109-64.

5

(18)1

on 11/23/59 Mariano Faget (protect identity) advised that

he had not witnessed delivery of money on 7/29/59 to William Alexander

Могдать.

He stated that he had received information from Robert Ortega,

former officer in the Bureau for Repression of Communist Activities

in Cuba,

that Augusto Maria Ferrando had sent money to Morgan in common

paper bags.fel

)U)

місті,

advised

On 12/3/59 Robert Ortega, 3031 Northest, Flagler Terrace,

that the only thing he knew about any of Morgan's

activities was that a friend had told him that korgan had bought

#60, 000.00 worth of arms in lampa, Fla. and had taken the arms to cuba.

(continued on next page.)

SECRET.

-1l-

DocId: 32337188 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

on 8/20/09, Morgan telephonically aduised

the Miami Office

that ferrando had paid him ouer $400,000,00 to aid in a revolution

against Fidel Castro in Cuba while all of the time he was aiding

Fidel Castro.

109-64-52

(18)10

The Legat at Havana, Cuba advised that about the first of

August, 1959, Raul Cros, former Head of the Cuban Air Force Intelli-

gence, attempted to learn his opinion about whether a counter revolu

tion would be effective in cuba.

The Legat advised that at the time

he knew that a counterrevolutionary group was in contact with William

Alexander Morgan and Eloy Gutierrer Menoyoy and that the Cuban Govern-

ment: was aware of such movement.

105-80787-175

(15)

ferrelease in 190-2325-227 belly

PSI Richard B. Jalfe (protect identity) advised that according

to Rolando Masferrer,

Dominick Bartone, Aero Dynamics Corp., had deposited

$180, 000.00 in a Miami Bank and that Bartone was the contact man

between the Dominican Republic and William Alexander Morgan.

stated that Morgan had contacted certain leaders of the anti-Fidel

Castro revolutionary movement and representatives of the Dominican

Republic, to form a force to invade Cuba, and he, Morgan, would aid

them on

their arrival in Cuba with members of the cuban revolutionary

army under his command. Inft. explained that on about 8/10/59, when

the Dominican Republic sent three plane loads of guns to cuba prior

to the proposed invasion, Morgan deceived the Dominican Republic

and captured and killed occupants of the planes.

According to Inft.,

one Nelson (NU) was invölved with Bartone

in the political intrigue

between cuba and the dominican Republic.

General Manuel Benitez, 20 Palermo,

Coral Gables, Fla.

(protect identity) advised

that Francis John Nelson (105-82088) served

as a contact man between William Alexander Morgan and Augusto Ferrando,

Dominican Consul General in Miami.

Nelson made two trips to the

Dominican Republic where he arranged

to supply Generalissimo Rafael

Trujillo one million dollars worth of arms made in Belgium, however

he was unable to deliver the arms. les (eds

205-83088-5

(16)V

SECRETI

-12=

DocId: 32337188 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

On 3/5/60 Jose Eleuterio Pedraza I Cabrera, former Cuban

Army General and an exile in the Dominican Republic, advised that he

had never seen or talked to William Alexander Morgan whose role as

a double agent in behalf of Castro in Aug., 1959, thwarted an alleged

attempt by

the Pedraza forces to invade Cuba.

He stated there were

eight or nine Cubans in the Dominican Republic who joined with Morgan

in the plot but he had absolutely nothing to do with it and was against

it from

the time he heard of it.

Pedraza said he had no information

concerning the connection between the Dominican Republic and the matter

involving Morgan.

6(4)

105-83798-45

(17) 60

The following references in the file captioned Dominick

Edward Bartone (205-80291) set out detailed information concerning

transactions involving Bartone, William Alexander Morgan and other

individuals in supplying arms and planes during the counterrevolution

sponsored by the Dominican Republic against the Castro regime in Cuba

in Aug. 1959.

Morgan admittedly acted as a double agent in savor

of Castro.

Other information is set out concerning Morgan who fought

Sor castro in a group known as the second National Iront of Escambray,

prior to the downall of the Bodiato regime in cuba on 1/1/59-101)

search slip Page Number

105-80291-4

5

13

16

p. 15,17,20-23

23

28 p. D., 8,10, 13-15,22,28

p. L,9,29,32-34,39,12,49,51,52

40

p. 5,6,8,9

42

(25).

(25)6

(3/15)

359515.)4

4191

(4520515)4

(41.5

(4/15) 0

(4810515)45

on 3/1/60 Mariano Faget Diaz, 75 SW 32nd Court Road, Miami,

protect identity) aduised that Domingo Antonio Villareal Figueroo

phonetic) (Domingo A.

villarreal rigueredo.

105-77928) was believed

to have been involved in the deal made bu William Alexander Morgan

and the Dominican Republic in connection with the revolution against

the fidel castro Government in Cuba. (a MuL

105-71928-9

(14)0

iSI 64-21981-232 p. 5

(I1)V

-14-

SECRET

DocId:32337188 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

on 11/3/59 AI-1372-S* furnished information concerning

meeting between Marcas Jose Diaz Lane and Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo (105-

82298) in Atlanta,

Ga. on 10/30/59.

align himself with forces in the Dominican Republic to overthrow Castro

and to attempt to kidnap Esteban Ventura, former Lt. Colonel in Cuban

National Police.

Inft, stated that Diaz did not trust Menoyo because

of his association with William Alexander Morgan. Menoyo told Diaz

that he was arranging for the escape from jail of individuals arrested

in cuba, who were exposed in their counter revolutionary attempts

Dy morgan during the first part of Aug., 1959. (d)Ul

105-82298-36 p. 2,4,6

(17)V

on 7/27/60 Camilo Padreda Vazquez, a confidential source

abroad who was a former member of the Cuban Bureau for the Repression

of Communist Activities, along with one Rolando Meruelo, a Cuban

exile in spain, furnished information. Both stated that Eloy Gutierrez

Menoyo (105-82298) had aided William Horgan in uncovering the conspiracy

involving the invasion of Cuba by the Dominican Republic in an attempt

105-82298-54

(4)1

On 11/24/59 Eddy Farfante (105-80803) advised that in Aug.

1959 while on a vacation he was arrested by cuban authorities on suspicion

that he was involved in the plot against Castro. He was put in prison

and

had been arrested for refusing to carry out an order given him by

While there, William Alexander Morgan came to see

He talked briefly to Farfante but apparently did not believe

Farfante's account of how he happened to be in Cuba and in prison.

Farfante stated that Morgan spoke Spanish fluently.

Farfante said he

Later read an account of the alleged plot against Castro whereir

Morgan had pretended to go along with

brought about their arrest.

This had involved a plane which landed

at trinidad near Cienfuegos.

105-80803-4

(16) V

SECRET

-15-

DocId:32337188 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Information was furnished

by It.

Reme

County so. Key West, Fla.

(protect identity) 1e

97-3293-1408

(25121

SI 97-3293-1417

(12) 1

SI 97-3293-1422

Ratole (NA), Monroe

This reference is a foreign service dispatch dated 8/18/59

srom the American Embassy,

Havana to the state Dept.

Information.

set out concerning a television appearance of Fidel Castro on 8/16/59,

during which he explained the conspriatorial plot involving William

Morgan in which the Dominican Republic attempted to invade Cuba.

William Morgan was one of the individuals uno delivered the leaders

of the coup into the hands of the castro Government.

109-12-210-774 p. 2

(5) 1680

that Rolando Mansferrer, former Cuban senator had stated that Anselmo

had each contributed a sum of money to a fund given to William Alexander

Morgan for the purpose of Morgan's creating a counter revolution in

cuba against the government of Fidel Castro. (la

on 9/11/59 Justo Luis Pozo advised in connection with the

revolution that he had understood that Morgan uno was believed to be

spearheading a counter revolutionary movement in cuba had a radio in

Trinidad, Cuba and had sent a message to the Dominican Republic saying

that tanks were believed to be in santos spiritos, and that group

of bazooka experts were needed to combat them.

Consequently Pozo

and approximately thirteen others arrived in Trinidad from

on the Dominican

Republic where they were captured.

They then learned

that Morgan was

actually aligned with Fidel Castro and not opposed to him as previously

believed.

105-78931-3

' po 12,13

(14) 1

SECRET

- 21-

DocId: 32337188

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

American Embassy, Havana, Joint Week No. 36 report dated

9/9/59, set out counterrevolutionary activities in cuba.

The report

that on sept. ? the home of Major William Morgan had been fired

on by two unknown assailants who had the word "MoAc" written on their

car as well as the name of ex-senator Rolando Masferrer.

The guard

at the house had forced the attackers to abandon the car.

It was noted that the attack was no doubt related to threats

of revenge against Morgan for his betrayal of the leading conspirators

of the abortive coup d'etat several weeks before.

109-12-210-806 p. 3

(5) 10

SI 109-12-210-801 p. 3

(5) 4

on 9/10/59 Herbert L. Behrendt, Honorary Dominican ConsulS]

at Miami (protect identity), advised that Generalisimo Irujillo was

angry with Ranfis Trujillo not further identified for becoming in-

volved with William Alexander Morgan in the revolution against the

Batista Government.

He was also angry because Morgan duped the

Dominicans into believing he was working for the Dominicans against

castro while he was actually working for Castro. (e

200-237194-838

MM-639-s advised that on 9/20/59 a meeting was held in the

office of Efigenio Ameijeiras, Chief of Police, Havana,

Cuba, which

waS

attended by Ameijeiras, Fernando Coba, a sergeant in the Cuban

Police, and an unidentified American from Miami, Fla.

Ameijeiras

stated

he was interested in setting up some sort of a plan to be

carried out with Inft. acting the role of a double agent. This plan

would resemble the double agent activities of William Alexander

Morgan, a major in the cuban Army. Inft. explained that on or about

8/8/59, Morgan deceived the anti-Castro groups

and caused them to send several airplanes full of weapons which were

confiscated by the cuban Government. (Ad(U4)

It was noted that Mi. 639-S was

identical with the unidentified

American:

105-75511-190

(14)U

SECRET

-23-

DocId:32337188 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

On 9/28/59 Camilo Padreda Vasques who claimed to have been

a member of BRAC in Havana (protect identity) furnished information to

the Legat at Madrid, Spain.

He stated that the Movimiento de Recuperacion

Democratica (MRD). (105-81376) had received a set-back in August

since William Morgan (William Alexander Morgan) who allegedly had

been working with the movement, proved to be a double agent working.

for Fidel Castro. Padreda was of the opinion that Morgan had been

sincerely on the side of the lovement at the outset but was forced

to assist Castro only after his activities had been discovered by the

Castro Government.

He based his belief on the fact that Morgan had

been working with the Movement for six months, whereas, Fidel Castro

at the time he publicly announced that Morgan was a double agent,

stated that Morgan had been working for the Movement for two months.

This led Pedraza to believe that Morgan had been working with the

Movement legitimately for four months before his activities were

discovered and he was forced, through fear for his life, to cooperate

with Castro.

He stated that

he believed that Morgan would be assassi

nate by the do ina cosemanent in ina not too deson saure c

105-8137613 p. 5,6

SI 105-81376-2

(4)V

on 10/26/59, Enrique A. Garcia JT. (105-58656) aduised that

he conferred with Generalissimo Rafael L. Trujillo of the dominicar

Republic in the early part of oct. 1959.

Garcia stated that Trujillo

had been spending much money in the counter revolutionary activities

against Fidel Castro and the Cuban Government.

"The incident regarding

Major William A. Morgan had cost him $1, 200, 000.00 (incident not

described)..

105-58656-94 p. 4

(9)1

on 10/1/59 Alexander I. Rorke, Iro, 51 Chambers St. NIC, a

free. lance photographer advised that recently a man by the name of

Ricardo Zaragosa (phonetic) who had been in prison in Havana at the

same time as Rorke in Aug.

1959, had recently visited him in N. I.

Zaragoso told him that William Alexander Morgan, who thwarted the

invasion of Cuba

The reason for his

arrest was due to the fact that the cubans had learned that Morgan

had failed to turn over all the money to the Cuban Government which

he had received as his share in the plot to invade cuba by the Domini

can Republic in Aug. 1959.

(continued on next page.)

SECRET

-25-

DocId:32337188 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

RoTke stated that when he went to Havana on 8/8/59 he

stayed the first two days at the home of Morgan. While there he met

a Captain Gomer, Doctora Margarita Carreras, Morgan's wife, and her

sister-in-law, all of whom had fought in the Escambray.

RoTke learned

while in Havana that Morgan told Major Eloy Gutierrer denoya about

the invasion plans because he thought Menoya might possibly be anti-

Castro (reasons for belief set out). Morgan had been made Military

Comandante in Las Villas Province and later head of the Mounted Police

in order to placate the individuals who had fought in the Escambray.

Porke also aduised that Jean secon of United Press Intere

national in Havana, told him on 10/1/59 that she knew Morgan well,

but on several occasions he had declined to recognize her.

Sec on

said that Morgan was practically under arrest in Havana and his

every move was being watched by the cuban military.

109-12-210-843 p. 2,3,5

on 10/27/59, William.G. Rouse, Port Chester, N.Y.,

Berlanti Construction

Co.Inc., Harrison, N.I. advised

that Manuel

De loya, former Dominican Ambassador to

the U.s.,

told him (no.

date) that the Dominicans would be willing to pay $500, 000 for Major

William A. Morgan, who was involved in the alleged invasion of Cuba

in Aug. 1959, and who doublecrossed the Dominican Republic. De loya

stated

they wanted Morgan taken alive and returned to the Dominican

Republic.

105-69544-28 p. 2

(9) 10

SI 109-12-210-876 (Informant

shown as Wallace G. Rouse)

(10) 1

Second Front of the Escambray Group, closely collaborated with

Major William Alexander Morgan who recently renounced his U.S..

citizenship, in the pretense of joining a counterrevolutionary attempt

in Cuba: however, in actuality, both were serving as double agents

for Castro.

the result

(continued on next page)

SECRET.

- 26-

DocId: 32337188 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

on 11/30/59(UF-1134-S* Jadvised that Virgilio Perez Tegas (5]

100-432323) had cont

the tuban Military Attache, Captain Angel

L. Saquedra

regarding on artlole which appeared about five daus before

in the "Hashington Post and Times Herald" which indicated that

Generalissimo Trujillo had offered a substantial sum for the capturé

of William A. Morgan. Perez said that from research,

chiefly from Lu

the Cuban magazine "Bohemia" he learned that Morgan had ingratiated

himself with augusto ferrando, Dominican Consul at Miami,

through

which contacty organ had joined the conspiracy with Dominicans on

Denals of castro in the invasion of cuba.

with perez in securing material for Perezkão write a true story con-Cu

cerning Worgan, which

in having perez write.

100-432323-1

(9)60

(protect identity) furnished

on 22/3/59 samuel Betionerted la 5. Dept. of Justice

directed

"To The Cuban

People" purported to be issued by the Marines of the Anti-Communist

War (97-4040).

The manifesto mentioned the treachery to which the

Cuban people

were being subjected and stated that after Che, Morgan,

etc., others would come until cuba was totally dominated by foreigners.

97-4040-2

on 1/15/60 Manuel Antonio Ugalde Carrillo, Sormer Colonel

in the cuban Army,

testified before an Executive Session of a Senate

Sub committee at Miami Beach, Fla. concerning revolutionary activities

of various individuals in Cuba, including William Morgan.

(copy of testimony enclosed)

62-88217-2698 епс. р. 33

(2) V

SI 62488217-2728 enc.

p.

162

(2)Udate of enclosed

testimony

5/6/60)

Anthony Urian Movinsky (105-74392) aduised that in Feb.

1960, before he left Cuba, he met William Morgan who had received

considerable publicity because of his activities with the Cuban forces

and for which his U.s.

citizenship had been revoked. Movinsky could

furnish no further infornation concerning Morgan.

205-74392-11

(3)V

SECRETI

-27-

DocId:32337188 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy ASSasSination Records Collegtion Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

On 4/4/60 HAV-22 aduised that since Oct. 1959 a movement

had been under way by a group of officials of the cuban Revolutionary

Government, some of whom were associated with G2 of the Revolutionary

Army, with the aim of eliminating certain heads of the cuban Revolu

ti omary Government.

Abelardo Colome Ibarra of the Cuban Army and Ramon Perdomo De La

Cruz, chief of Lone 12 08 Gul. (8XU

on 4/13/60 the same Inft.

aduised that the assignment of

Comandante William Alexander Morgan to G-2 by the Cuban Government

about three weeks before had caused some intranquility since Captain

Ibarra and Perdomo considered Morgan as an American with traitor

background who could

not be trusted.

According to Inft., Morgan

had no knowledge of the foregoing matter.

The Legat at Havand advised that it was

his opinion that

in view of the fact that Morgan had recently been assigned to G-2

and considering his background, the plot might be a plant prepared

by the castro regime to lure counter revolutionary forces into the

open. fl

It

was noted that HAV-22 received the above information

from his brother,

Rigoberto Izquierdo Aleman, employee of G?

Revolutionary Army, who was being developed

109-12-210-1486

(18)V

on 4/30/60 the Legat at Havana advised that the Departamento

de Investigaciones de Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias (DIFAR- Dept of

Investigations of the Revolutionary Armed Forces) was still in the

process of being organized. Its chief was Ramiro Valdez Menendez,

and its assistant chief was Major William Alexander Morgan who

65-63987-210-18 p. 3

(11)0

SECRET

-31-

DocId: 32337188

Page 14

---

## Page 15

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Ins furnished a copy of a sworn statement dated 5/6/60,

by Raul Egberto Ros Gonzalez (105-85542).

Ros stated he had been

arrested for shipping arms to Major William Morgan, Angel Bano and

Gutirres Menoyo.

These individuals were fighting against the Batista

regime in Cuba but they were completely different from the castro

forces (no date). He stated that Castro was suspicious that Morgan

was not in agreement with the castro Government and that Morgan was

being watched at all times by dIER.

hos stated that Morgan had been

arrested by the castro Government the week before last and held at

Cabana Fortress for a week.

He was questioned about counterrevolu

tionary activities before he was released.

105-85542-4 p. 12,13

(5)V

advised that various members of a

¡ "syndicate" including Robert Brown

and hobert accormick greguented the Lorraine Hotel Bar, Cleveland.

Inft. said he had heard

these individuals state that "bio noney"

could be made in Cuba and that william Morgan was "loaded with dough".

Morgan had been an associate of several of these individuals before

he went to cuba. Inft. stated he knew of no one who had been recruited

He stated he knew that both

Robert brown and Robert Mocormick had to borrow money to go to Cuba.

Inft. did not know Bill Poloris (2-1586)..

Add. info.

2-1586-2

(1/21)0

on 5/31/60 WrO aduised,

that Robert Ridgway Hodenberg.

asso Massachusetts AUe. N.W.

waddised that he had heard Dominican

officials express their feeling that they would welcome news of the

death of Major Milliam Norgan or would like to get their hands on him

but he knew of no offer made to or by the Dominican republic inithat

regard.

Fodenberg stated that he had definitely never attempted to

recruit anyone to assassinate Castro or Morgan.

97-4141-8

(2)V

REVIEWED BY BOWJFK TASK FORCE

ON

4117/98008

E/RELEASE IN FULL

C RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

SECRETI

- 33-

DocId:32337188 Page 15

---

