# docid-32184500

## Page 1

Released under the John

Kennedy Assassination Records collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107-

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10240-10210

RECORD SERIES: NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-38431-1352

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MCMANUS, BENJAMIN P.

TO: SAC, NY

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/28/1966

3

LHO, ADVICE, FILM, 11/22-24/63

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/07/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Dodil: 32184500

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ALT INFORAACION CONT

HERDIN IS UACGA:

uP&S

SAC, NEW YORK (100-92714)

75022

2/28/66

SA BENJAMIN P. MC MANUS (45% 29032

EMILE De ANTONIO,

SM - C

on 17/31/66, Detective Inspector CHORLEY, Special Branch,

furnished a business prospectus

based on a book by MARk LANE on the murder of president

JOHN F. KENNFDY, at Dallas, Texas bn November 22, 1963. (S)

The prospectus, a copy of which is attached hereto, notes

that captioned subject is a member of the Board of Directors

of Current Events Documentary Films, Ltd. and his mailing

address is set forth as PO Box 1567, New

York 17, New York.

A biographical sketch of the subject is also contained

in the prospectus.g

The address of the film company 1s given as 42-Longridge

Road, London SW 5, England. (S)

• OSW 07 (o7 30030 15 1ace At on posos.

No further action is recommended at this time re

captioned subjoct.

0/4/91

Declassity on: DADA

lcc

NY 105-38431 (LFE H. OSWALD)

105-38431-1352

SEALERSE INDEED.

FILED HA

•ED 2 8 1966

FBI - NEWYORK

SECREU

15.

940-10310

DocId: 32184500

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

Hote) 2o

under the

DATE :6a1-10-2010

"Coapany

Kenned

Assassination Reçords Collection' Act of 1992, 444 USC 2197

354)

Managing

Di rectors

Boardi or

Directors

Miton lh,

• Here

atonaridge Road,

London shes. (Panenel, Bost).

A Company.

cored car tha perpire no baking a motina

entitladi such co.dudesent.

The not for

¡derired pros the book byla

Mark Lane wich,

critiquelor the warren Commingion!a

findings

gending. the-nurdereicfreaident.u.r.Kennedy

Tippity

and her

Harver

howald

Richard

Marky Pen

oúgridge

London SM:5

*2M Chanel

Street,

London Sket

Emile

Fide

Hark Lane

Richard

Titonio: Box: 1567

New York

irk

4s rongride Road, LondonessWeS

Cort of: Production

£20

000. Capproximately

856,000)

D

of Profits

50%. t0

Investors

Writer

1505

codlic tibn/

Creative staff including Producor

DE

on

gh

PI

chich will consis

macinents

York

stock footage, vexiating

footage

ind

rae

otage. with.conniat

ASBAAR

jon'of Preaident Leaned;

with sembers And

Ratattrot the Warren it

mentary

Filme Liaited has already.

before

published idleny medin.

These tro

"nationa)

nnture.

An English silp crew

in aid-December to rila

thei

interviev

picture fe March 1966

Whe

отре

tony

10

pub

Re

port

o11

of.

Th

erring:

he didactic end argumentative in

that

own evidence: contained injito

tratimony

and'exhibits with'the warren

linert in the. one.rolune. Warren.Comission

un conclunions and villindulgein. no suits

Pill the judicial, void left by the turder

secret.procredingeiof, the Warren Cousionion.

only trial afforded, to., Lee, Harvey Obvald with

or

TheuPrincipala

Raile de Astonio. i'n

producer/dirictor of politient. docusentary. gilmo

Thove include the feature filn loint of Order, which has von four leotiva

Point of Orderita a docusentnry based oa, the dray/McCarthy

hearings 01.1954,

which bas had comercial roleade throughont the vorid:

de: Antonio bas recently completed a filo for the B.B.C. on New York City

politico de Antonio via'a Univerolty teacher at the College of the City

or New York, Coluabia Univeralty, and College of Willian and Mary," whoro ho

lectured, in philosophy and isteratare;

producer avan or outer are cod dele gao no ad a

14194

1940120.9503 RAS/ge

TADAOK

NEGRE

105-38431-1352

DooId: 32184500

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under, the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records COllection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107)

Hotel

DATE: 11-11-2017

Fs incar

Comm

anu:

personally

1750

ritie

aTtY

'In lirant

pape

back it"

MANY

nationa by

striractiainy

defence clawyer yin

Bere

i art member in the.

Now

• Y!

orard by. President Kennody

the Retino

Mennor

konarvelt and Herhert-Hi.eh

dangappeared twice beforetthe

the

of.hia

•0111717

Lestimony,

unhrown to

nil

•AiL

1 materisl

liplicate

negativen

Washington

10n

racconmodations

purchaeing and proceaning of

rentalinf

rector

Caneramin,

equipment for a minimal cras

Sound

plus.

asiatant:

Ed i

editor/and

expenses i flyting Room and equippent pita

editor) a

and

animatirin:

And ork round Cransten A

negati

work.

$15.500

$ 9,000

$ 4,000

$ 33000

$ 2,500

$

000

$ 2.000

SПлar1

negotiated

in noxcase

wrck:

int

cxclusive

Intervies material in Dallas

ilm.

irectrit.

troducer, briter

re now beings"

the Corporation.

underatood that

any salary excred an anonntler"30

L Per

a will forminate upon delivery of one

-$14,000

856,000

105-38431-1352.

DocId: 32184500 Page 4

---

