# docid-32315034

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10338-10144

RECORD SERIES :

WMFO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO:

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

20

SUBJECTS :

MULTI SUBJECT: LARRY MEYERS, IRVING DAVIDSON

(ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

6 LOGS DATED 07/09/63 THRU 08/02/63

v9.1

DocId: 32315034

6

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colléction Art Of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Washington, D.u.

July 9, 196;

Tuesday

7/9/63 (NIC) SUMMARY [WE - 970-5: D(5)

2:58 AM

JULIO ALBORIA) tO GUILLERNO SEVILLA SACASAJ S

CIgaRT says he is about ready to leave for the session(OAs)) (S

ALEGRIA] says the CALAZAR

"SALAZAR

call him

at home. CSJ

(panish) RAB/rab ES]

: 18AM WILLIAM SHEI

to MRS.

sipecTask for general auto peRALasand is advised that he is not (5]

In ASHEASLeaves

that he called and that his telephone L SJ

number is

(English)

"RAB/rab

22:46AM CARMINE HORTON tO MRS. @EVILIA SACASAJS]

'4-OG

HORTON advises

that she

that he can

has heard from the office of BOB KENNEDYLS)

at 4:30P6S)

CHORCON]-hereafter advises MISS VOVeL of BOS to OFFiCe la (SJ

22:53AM (LILA ALBATZ)EO ALVARO BANSON] requested) (SJ

13-47 /

2-0G

SAN SON

(ORTEGA,-

understand why

inister) is at/FI2-7000 Room 748: 35 ALFONSO CS _

talk to her

jot the distinct impression from(DANILO (SANSON) that (ALFONSO doesC

not like her

ALVARO says this is wrong and that DANILO)is Tikes

above number in New

at theone will do. (Englishi

RAB/ rab

(She calls beack later and advises that she could not reach DR.

EsT Colin at that rumber, but Wild ty Later) 65-19628

suxZ-39(5)

INDEXERAS

SERIALIZED MAILED:

(re 65376) 10221410186

DocId: 32315034

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017 ,

Washington,

D

• C.

July 9,1903

Washington, D.C.

SECREE

7/9/63 (NIC)SUMMARY CoNTINUED

BLANDO

(Wr -970-sD(S)

12:07PM

UNK/FLEST

Xame

PANNIE

1-1C

Brom Miami to (ULIO C. MORALES] (S)

12-27

DANNIE advises

that only 4 out of the five packages arrived

will do. MORALES

Nicaragua on the Nica flight from Miami on

12: 132

12-30

1-IC

13-53

ENU GARCIA) FrOM NYC cOllect to General JULIO CO MORALES) LS)

{MORALES) says he is sorry that he has not been able to read/CS.

TNOFMAPION CONTAYNIO

LA DRUSA

CLASSIFIED

DECLASSIFY ON:

3: 10PM

12-34

has to get the list ready here in New

irk and needs 5 or 6 th

nousana dollars. MORALES says he is a very good friend ofCS

(GARCIA and would

like to be felpfull but he must be frank and CS.

Tist Various expenses such as sending his daughter to California,

nis son to camp and he

- himself has to go to Europe with the

_S]"old man" in October, MORALES) says that he therefor can not hel

5] with more than $50. GARCIA says he has to get down there and

says that his economic difficulties are only temporary and that

the money will be returned. He says he has the buyers all set

ip here. All he has to do 1s raise capital. MORALES then addressed

SY GARCIA by the nick name BUCHUNO (ENRIQUE GARCIA J the erstwisels

Dominican gun runner is known by this nick nameX and assures

C5$50, and will send it today or tomorrow. GARCIA says he wants to

leave tonorton thursday.

MORALES then asks GARCIA) for the name of his friend in New YorkeSs

and the name of the

8301. MORALES says he will drop around to eat.

(S] (MORALES) says he expects to tour Latin America in late October.

They will write

each other.

(Spanish)

RAB/rab /ar (5J

(JULIO C. MORALES) tO BILI SHEA

(Bequested) C5

people down there are having trouble getting the money.

"SHEARthis says this isnwhat has wanted to verafy MORALES says (S

Is spoke with the eesidents st hee

DocId: 32315034

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC. 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

od

SECRET

7/9/63 (NIC) SUMMARN

3:10PM Call Continued

Tuesday

((WF-970-S*D Continued) (5)

opinion he has about this. MORALESsays that he has heard thats

going to tell him that he has a group which has the money and is

ready to do the job MORALES says that he(SOMOZA) is interestedS

in improving his land and in order te do this, it

to nave a hotel in Nicaragua, MORALES Says he

private dinner can be arranged. I*/ThAt SHEA Will be glad sALu

to attene. MORALES says the four of us can

nim and explain that,if the other group does not have the money,

Sve have it and are ready to go SHEAdagrees. MORALESsays that the

RAB/rab /ar

3:44PM

(JULIO C. MORALES) to

CHARLOTTE

BURKE, at Riggs, walthers and <S]

2-3a (S) Rollingswood very pito

MORALES asks how she enjoyed the weekend with her mother. Shels

says that she enjoyed it and appreciated the candy MORALES asksCS_

If she will be tree this weekend and she says she will. (MORALESHS)

says he doesn't know about/STEVE or whether (SUGAR will be ind.

They both argree that it will not make any difference if STEVEn

Sis there but that SUGAR would not stand for it. MORALES says tha

STif(SUGAR )is there "you and I" can go to the International Inn.

She agrees but tells MORALES to call her Thursday afternoon. CS.

He asks if she thinks she can make the trip to florida with him

,96

and she says she thinks she can. He says he has her tires for

her, tubeless 800x14.

('S (MORALES) says he will have lunch witk steve tomorrow and will find

out if sugar is coming.

she asks if@STEVEylooks any better.

( MORALES says he has not seen him as he just got back last night.

[5]

MORALES? says whe"three of us"will get together for the weekend.

She agrees but says not for the whole weekend. He agrees that this

sould not be too appropriat"/rab

(English

SECRET

(IC 654(S) 10338-1081t

DocId: 32315034 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 747 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

washington

July 9,1963

Tuesday

SECREE

+: S+M

IRVINE [SPAVIDSON tO General EULIO C. MORALES] (S)

-ICS DAVIDSON says he is calling to find out what is new with regard to

LUIS SOMOZ arriving MORALES says he is scheduled to arrive Thur-

DAVIDSIN says ho will not do anything about we discussed

(visit to the White House) unless specifically Abe/ requested to

PEREZ and the other one. (attending Anter American Defense Collegex

DAVIDSON with respect to

purchasing a new car.

order ta greet them upon their arrival at Andrews airforce Base.

TORRENTE agrees to this. LS-

(Spanish) RAB/rab [53

SECREX

: Cito 655J65J 10338-1014A

DocId: 32315034

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under theJohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017.

CRET

Washington, D. C.

July 10, 1963

Wednesday

7/10/63-(NIC SUMMARY

WE -970-3*1 (5)

:40

MRS. (TENNEY

to

UNIDENT FEMALE

IC

SEARCHED,

...INDEXEQ

SERIALIZED. CON FILED T

OUL 1 1 1963

FBI - WASH. F. O

cull

2- OG

SIMON Jorders four copies each of maps ND-15, NF-13and NF

(English, RAy rab

IRVING DAVIDSON tO (GOnOraL JULIO MORALBS (5J ERANKI

1:02 pm

11-8

2-IC

1040

over to his office and

tomorrow he is getting that whiskey.

DAVIDSON says that he is calling about something else. DAVIDSON

CLASSI

RED BYSZE

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

blocking him (MORALES) off, because he (MORALES) has

down there for the past two Yeers hoRALes aara thate

the Chase Manhattan Bank, that wants to

go down there, but FRANkthas control of the thing, and has

LUIS? DAVIDSON says that/FRANkXhas his topoip the (general's s

(SOMOZAD ass. They talk about RANK&not letting anybody get CS-

into the deal even though FRANdoesn't hav e the money. DAVIDSONG

says to ask Luis when he gets back who is running the country,

"BARRY) or him (LUIST, DAVIDSON asks if this is the same contract (S

that MCCARTHY had MORALES says that there are two groups.

contract thatoMCCARTHY/had, andERANK Mhas one withlIOHN

and a hotel. DAVIDSON says

that/FRANKywas in New York to see JOHN WAYNe two weeks ago.

DAVIDSON says that he found out that JOHN WAYNE has been trying xl

to borrow money from MURCASON (ph), but can't get the time of<BY

MORALES says, yes, DAVIDSON says that he will help him and hels

doesn't want anything. (MORALES says

say that RANkyhas blacked every deal that he's been in and has klU)

never made a quarter. DAVIDSON

says that one

(DAVIDSON) fell

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS ETOLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE NOTED OTHERWISE

DocId: 32315034

that the generallearned it, and DAVIDSON

permiscion from the President? to do it!"ad thou says that ei

"I had the (s)

he FRANK N is not the most wonderful ma, and is not Mr. kxxxxuxt

2-3-89)

OADI

SECRET

(NIC 656)

205-1%802

it 339775)

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under thetJohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Möte).

DATE: 11-14-20174

SECRET

Washington, D. C.

July 10, 1963

Wednesday

1/10/63 (NIC) SUMMARY

1:02pm call continued

(WF 970-S*)) CONTINUED (SJ

loven there"

3:03pm

11-13

1-IC

3:35PM

4:20PM

TC

4: 30PM

everybody takes orders from him FRANK) LOUIE doesn't know, s

says DAVIDSON. This is the impression that is given MORALES CS'

says that he will

call to see when they can get together.

(English)

JVS/ IvS

IRVING DAVIDSON to General MORALES (SJ

IRVING

says that he is alone at home now and has something more

(S]

try to indict BARRy They said that he registered as a SecuritylS.

Officer. But

Te hastbeen doing business and he didn't put dowr

that he

is doing business, too. DAVIDSON says that he is down

Is a business man ana a public relations man on the Departmen

of Justice papers "BARRYlis down only as security while doing<S

business, and that is a violation of the act. There are about

ten men working on the case. They are going to California and

Chicago and everywhere. DAVIDSON says that he thinks that

BARRIs going to have more than he can handle. DAVIDSON says

"I dian't do it. You didn't do it. He did it himself." MORALES

says that he thinks they should help BarRyd if they can. davId

soN agrees. DAVIDSON doesn't want BARRY Sto get hurt but neither

does he want MORALES to get caught in the middle.CS

(English)

JVS/jUS

(CARMINE HORION tO GUILLERMO SEVILIA SACASA (S)

advises that theboffice of MR. KENNEDY calledwith reference

to the appointment set for 4:30PM

She says

something has come up and KENNEDY can not make it,

CS until 5:30PM.SACASA tells

her to assure KENNEDY

office that this

will be fine.

(Spanish

RAB/rab (S)

Jong Distence Operator to MRS. (SIMONJ(S3

Operator says she has been trying to call DR. (URCUrO) at f1 1-7490)

(5})

in NYC but

has bot been

able to get an answere.

(English) RAB/rab

MRS o

TENNET) tO MR. (HYPLE) at UNK Answering Servico. (S)

The explains the she will

be on vacation next week and would

like to have an answering service handle her office calls in

the

mornings only as her

(S )CNIC 657

SCARE

DocId: 32315034 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

washington,

D. C.

(VIC) SUMMARY

(WF-970-S*D (S)

July 12, 1963

Friday

SECREV

9:4 9AM

2-59

MRS. (SIMON to UNIDENT Female in Office of MR. SHERBR at (5)

Firestone

MRS. SIMONasks if the General can pick up the two türe, 800 CS

X 14, de ordered Last week. she is advised that he can

them

up this afternoon at 13 and K, and that anybody there

can serve him.

(English RAB/rab

11:02AM

10-

(JOSE ANGEL

RUOz says a ggod friend of his has lined up 4 or s

Tooking virls for a party at her place RUTsays shilass

friend is a middle aged woman who works in

also attend. It starts at I'M and the telephone numbe

is WO 6-71130 RUISJassuresRIZO that there will' be not si

trouble and

hebwill"throwg a six". RIZO wiel be there&s

CAS SHOTH

number of hie place where the party will be and says it is

in the partment of a lady friend of his. He says(ALVARO) can (S

11:27A1

25-1

(INU) and (General JULIO C. MORALES 5)

They chat as old friends and MAx)then says he whopes to bels)

able to do some business with MORALESJas he has

in he discount pilse and ali in the sold CHAnded

he would be very interested as his boss (ANASTACIO SOMOZA)(S

5 in two years will probably be a canidate for the Presidency an

ill thereafter become head of the mamional thard. MORALESTES"

next month and they

11:40AM

25-37

BILL (SHEA

to General JULIO C. MOTALES CS-

(S),

(105-196784uk1-396

BILLAsays he is calling from a go

i tournement and can't tal

He appligizes for not having made the meeting

ast night.MORALES says he wants to talk to him about whats

is going

contact MORALES in about

on about It for about 5 minutes (SHEAsays he will

two hours.CSJ

SEARCHED .....

5/11198

(English)

SERIALIZED A FILED.

CLASSIFIED BY S668:510)

Ined

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(NIC 66785) SECRET

DocId: 32315034 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017.

Washington,.C

July 12,1963

Friday

SECRET

7/12/63 (NIC) SUMMARY (WF-970-S*))

Continued) (SJ

12: :20PM

Gneral JULIO C. MORALES to (Briga) General (Brute) KRULACK, <S

'25-7

attached to the Joint Chiefs of Starr

I-OG S

MORALES says he did not call hm before as the President aidS

not know whether he was going to stay of not(soMozAD but heCs

was called back to Nicaragua urgently and is leaving tonightC

end he is very sorry he can not get together with KRULACK KSOU

MORALES says that he (soMOzA) is coming back within a month orl

KRULACK asks how are things going MORALES says "fine, fine. S

That is one of the things he wants to talk to you do out. they were

something

but down therel, you know,

have pretty good control(S)

of thines. So, I think wo

are all right. We are doing fine".

can get

togeher

you can give

me some information in regard to that

other project we had". KRULACK says he started the ball rollingt s

and says he thinks we

may make

• a little progress on ite

(5)KRULACK says he will give MORALES a report the first time "we" get

together. MORALES says he hopes that(KRULACK keeps trying

cause KRULACK knows how important that is and with

BEERULACK MORESTINE

can do it-KRULACK Will keep atLS

(English)

RAB/rab

1:05PM

FRANK BARRY

to BERNIE (SOMOZA)CSJ

(2-°D/S)

KING

BARKY Jays he ls working on lixing the tickets up and asi

SICBERNIE to bring them to the Embassy. BERNIE will do and mention

that he did not get to bed until about 3PM today

1:33pm

ILL SHEÃY and (Ganeral MORALES (5]

MORALAST say s

that soMOzA didn't care wihch group he went intols.

National at 7:40pm.

(Spanish)

JVS/ jvs

(NIC 662](5]

SECRET

103981996

DocId: 32315034 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F: Kennedy AssasSination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ters

Washington,

D. C.

July 12, 1963

Friday

1/12/63 (NIC) SUMMARY ((WF 970-S CONTENUED (5]

LUIS SOMOZA to

FRANK BARRY

ACSS

3:07pm

19-14/5

I-IC

SEC

CHEL

BARRY to talk to MRS. SOMOZA in order to

transportation

(English) RAB/rab / jvs

to MiamI BART WIll do.Cange her train ($24)

3:25 PM

TENC

4:05PM

25=13.

I-OG

:36pm

AGen. JULIO C. MORALES) to Wife (S]

He says

he will be late for

see the President (SOMOZA

reception tonight as he has to

off tonight at 7:40PM. He will (S]

pick her

up

RAB/rab (53

(General MORALES

to BILL SHEA

[S]

(SIMORAL ESTaSKS BIDE If hO is

going

to be home MORALES) says he (5.

hat with SoMOZA and

will then call SHEA. XCSj

4:37 pm

Genera 1 MORAL ES to IRVING DAVIDSON (S]

NC

-OG > (MORA ESJattempts to contact DAVIDSON, but is advised that <SU

DAVIDSON is not in. MORALES leaves word for DAVIDSON to call S

him, mail he arrives back In about hall en hour.

JVS/jvs

6:05 PM

IRVING I. DAVIDSON tO (JUAN ASENGIO] (SJ

DAVIDSON

is trying to

ontact General MORALES and ASENGIO CS.

dvises that (MORALES is not in. (S

(English)

RAB/rab

(NIC 6635)

249

SEI

10388-190481

DocId: 32315034 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

51498

CLASSINED BY S6bK-SLD mac

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

washington

July 16, 196gARCHE

....INDEXEG

Tuesday

SERIALIZER, LRFILED..

JUL1 7 1965

Scull

After.

10:02

NC

MRS. SIMON to UNITED AIRLINES

from

to San

o serration daughte elemenan to 23/5J

DANILO SANSON to UNIDENT at Bastern Airlines (53

wonders if Eastern would give him a pass so that he could fly

once a month to Miami without charge. In return, the

Ambassador would allow Eastern Airlines the right to publisize

the fact that SAVASA Jalways uses Eastern. UNIDENT, referred CS

the law.

(English'

RAB/rab

11:56 am

5-30

Baltimore telephone operator to Secretary of General MORALES L5J

1-IC

will be at

this number until approximately 3:30pm.

(English) JVS/ jvs

(5)

(RICARDO FERRERA) tO MR. (QUADRO in ManaguaBRNESTO (RAMERO QUADRO)

IXXXXX

1:23pm

(2=70)g)

illegible due to an excited voice and long

NO TIGERMATIOR CONTAINED

NEETN IS UNCLASSTFIED PACHES

WEARIN OTERILSE

guarantees all operations, covering with 1/4 or 1/2 % on all

operations. FERRERA attempts to explain the confusion. (FERRERA)(S

that they are losing time and money and says that he

0 calm down and listen as QUADRO is terribly excited at this<S.

oint. FERRERA says that he was here with SoMOZA, and talkings.

to him and SOMOZA was comparing all aspects. FERRERA says that 3.

he doesn't know ifQUADRO talked with PATTEN HAM or not, but<S-

that

SECRET

the documents, reflecting what has been planned.

Es CNIC 667457105-996764477-403)

DocId: 32315034

Page 11

---

## Page 12

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aet of 1992 -(44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Washington, D. C.

July 16, 1963

Tuesday

1/16/63 (NIC)SUMMARY [WE 970-S$T) CONTINUED (S)

1:23pm call continued

SECRET

not have a business head, and doesn't want to go into this

'that tomorrow he is going to receive a night letter or cable

reflecting that his credit is perfectly steady, and, all that

is lacking now is

a cable from one other person in Managua. (SJ

nickly as possible and has a special interest as it is costin

him money,

too, plus five months of work. QUADRO speaks oiCS

3: 45PM

3:52PM

be in his hands this week. They talk about sending the

documentation up with an airline pilot and then QUADRO decides(5)

to come to Washington himself with the documentation ready.

(QUADRO asks for the darmentation confirmation of the credit (5

of (ROBELO (ph) and if it Is good and guaranteed. (FERRERA Sa $(

surely and positively.(QUADRO asks if the signature can-beC5

certified at the American Embassy and is assured that sEx&an•

that the handwriting can be certified there. (ALEGRIA comes Es)

to the phone and they go over some of the details agáin.

CALEGRIA reiterates that he has been working terribly hard (S

on the project here.

JVS/ jvs (5]

DANILO SANSON

to (CARLA) (Female at butch Embassy) ESJ

He kids around with her and mentions that his lambassador left(S)

going to Switzerland

to school next

month. He aks if she would like to take her place. She does

not answer directly when he explains that shw will have to go

to bed with him.

(English) RAB/rab

General JULIO C. MORA:ES] to Mwtropolitan PD (5]

the Police to

keep a special watch on the residence.

(English)

RAB/rab

(NIC 66833] 136

DocId: 32315034 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14/2017

Walshington,D.Co

July 16,1961

Tuesday

SECRET

7/26/63 (NIC. SUMMARY

((WE -970-5*))

Continued LS

4: 30PM

JULIO C. MORALES to MARYANNE CANBELat Baltimore (requasted) (5)

was in an automobile accident last week. Her 1956 car

was completely wrecked. Both she and her son were hospitalized

for 4 days and just got out of the hospital. He is very sorry

to hear this ad will call her later in the week She says she

will not be able to dance for a few months and is in bed at

home •

(English) RAB/rab

5:43PM

"1- 201S

IRVING I. DAVIDSON tO JULIO C. MORALES) ESJ

IsnC

MORALES) says he wants to take DAVIDSON home as

DAVIDSON asks 1f they can make it a little earlier tient (sy

"those boxes" here. DAVIDSON agrees to come by the Embassy) atLS

7PM e

(English) RAB/rab

DocId: 32315034

Page 13

---

## Page 14

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

washington,.co

July 16

91963

5u7% 26,7 tuesday SECRET

1/16/63 (NIC SUMMARY

(WE -970-S*))

Continued SJ

IRVING I PAVIDSON tO BOB

THOMPSON

ph), NYC. (X(4)

8-23

2-0G (S)

(While waiting for THOMPSON to come to the phone DAVIDSON

says - He has fallen intd the wrong hands.. MORALES)is L SU

heard faintly in the 'background.••DAVIDSON remarks...

- had and I will prepare it the next time he comes but thei

will not let BARRYyin the White House.

They will not let*Ju

him in the meeting. If he(LUIS SOMOZA) says he needs his CS)

bodyguard...olf they let him in they will says you do not

need a bodyguald in the Senate because they said

because they

•people hate people who are ungrateful.

They said I got him the job and for him to cut my throai

ne is a shit heel.) THOMPSON comes on and is referred to (SYu

by DAVIDSON as (CHICKENS" 7C*(4)

4CX DAVIDSOI

says he knows that Bobwas here last week but DavID-

ursd soN was in Nashvilled BOB says he knows this -DAVIDSON say

(wes) he got back but missed Bobione night intentionally because

he (DAVIDSON) "got trapped"

DAVIDSON says that number one..• His people got intouch with

? the Bedforgiph) people today for the pavilion. They are going

to shit or get off the pot immediately and DAVIDSON will

let BOB know. DAVIDSON says his people will put up the

Werent end onE Polishould tell dom what that

who is going to give the guarantee. DAVIDSON says that "he

DAVIDSON aSkS(BOIl he Is still friendly With DUKE WAYNE

DAVIDSg says this is why he is calling... Remember FRANK CO

BARRY that son-of-a-bitch I gave that job to

and he cut my

nihe ways against the middle. He has got(wAYNE involved

an a hotel in icaraguad Remamber the one you end LIfe

MURCHISON turned down. «BOB yays yes DAVIDSON says

nd WAYNExis ready to go. He will lose his ass (BOB says CYl

tomorrow. DAVIDSON says.•• Please stop

it tomorrow I'm sitting here with (General MORALES I'm 1nl

670J(5)

DOESNA

DocId: 32315034

Page 14

---

## Page 15

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Washington, DoC.ahA

July 16,1963

Tuesday

(WE - 970-S=) continued (S]

7/16/63 (NIC) SUMMARY

7:02PM Cali Continued

1s thet BARRYigot a hot poker up my ass, coach and when I Call

eard that pukE wAYNe why should your friend get screwea

TE11 him to

OB says-111 stop thet • DAVIDSON L

DUKE WAYNE Y the movie actor. DAVIDSON says aside to MORALES CS]

are not going to let your friend get screwed CI

C Bolsays that he is going to call his WAYNES SOn IKE WAYNEX

who is his business manager, tomorrow. DAVIDSON

says

let him get screwed'.

DAVIDSON says that the President

of Niesragua was hore last Cs.

reek, waltzing around, and if he wAYnE)scould have met himu

in New York last week what the hell does that mean. How many

Presidents do you meet every day, coach, and how many big shots sy

Cuão you meet? BOB Agrees and says he will handle it right nowC*

and call up DAVIDSON tomorrow or the next day. DAVIDsON says

uYs just don't let DUKE get hurt (BOB"says he won't

and says that

ayDUKEis in Spain right now but MIKE(WAYNE) 1s his business Su!

manager o

(U have to stick closer together now XBOBlagrees and says"to getti

some of that long green moving". DAVIDSON agrees and says we

will, coach, if we

sign up this Texas building.

(English)

fo/rab

(NIC 672J(5)

SECRET. 238-10484

DocId: 32315034

Page 15

---

## Page 16

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Washington, DoG. SECRET

July 26,1963

Thursday

1/26/63 (NIC SUMMARY ((WE-970-5*))

Suplimental Page (SJ

Set out below is

a more detailed version of call at 5:33PM/Nic 689J (S)

Gneral JULIO C. MORALES

J and IRVING I. DAVIDSON (S)

2:3314

12-10

2-?

DAVIDSON says -yes, completely honest. DAVIDSON says he once lent

him and another man a $1000 because they wanted to do somethings.

I did not give them the money to do anything wrong or violate the

rules of the United States Something happened and things did not

go right. Anyway, the Cubans told me that these men did what they

were supposed to

When a man is trustworthy

(MORALES /then says-,

very much interested in getting that contact back but does not

want to say anything on the phone. MORALES says he is trying to CS

get "you and I " into

I va to sit to get er through thick or thin: see says that

Sis why I want that letter. DAVIDSON

says okd MORALES says send the

letter personal, as he wants to talk to "that fellow" next week,

luesaax or Wednesday. DAVIDSON says for MORALES to tell

(SOMOZA) "you" have a copy of the letter.DAVIDSON says he

s]send it to MORALES home or to the office marked personal. (MORALES

DAVIDSON asks if the secretary of MORALES opens his mailots

MORALES) says she doesn't 5

(English)

JVS/rab

Noc 692](5] SECRET

10315196884

DocId: 32315034 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Washington, D. C.

July 20, 1963

Friday

SECREL

7/26/63.

(NIC] SUMMARY

(IWH-970-5*I57

: 50

13-

1-IC

(RICARDO PERRERA tO (ALVARO RIZOZCSS

FERRERAJ asks to speak to (JULIO ALEGRIA bit is advised that hers

not in yet. (FERRERAJasks that (ALEGRIA bebasked to call himCS_

Posite

calls From anu pansi sine

as he just got a very urgent

10: 22am General MORALES) to Cecretary, Mrs. (SIMON J CS)

1-IC SIMON says that "he" called two times, yesterday, to say <50

goodby •(MORALES asks if he has received letters foom/Nicaragua. (s)

Army. (MORALES

says that he will be in his house all morning(s

if

any messages come in.

(Spanish)

JVS/jvs (S]

11:20AM

THOMAS LADOMERSKY] (Sp) to MRS. @IMONJ (S)

He says he has been trying to get in touch with DR. SANILO SASON S)

his phone is

2: O8PM UNK FEMALE tO JUAN §SENGIO)K/ (S)

- TI

He thanks her for her letter. She goes into great detail about

her interest in Latin

merica etc. He says he would enjoy the

chance to live with an American family. He says he has been here

19 years but still does" not knownthe real Americans. The invites

4: 45PM (General JULIO C. MORALES to IRVING

23-5

ALSON (SJ

1-OG

DAVIDSON says he wants

to read

the

letter to MORALES (but tellsCS)

MORALES that he does not want the US government

or the

Ambas-ador to double cross him DaVIDSON. ORALasagreeses

to this and

DAVIDSON reads as follows:

ADEL INFORMATION CONTAIRED

HERETH IE UROLASSITIED RICEPT

WHERE SHUAN OTHERNISE.

71198

(105-19678 Aut I-41375

SEARCHED

GLASSIFIED BY 5168-SLAnde

SERIALIZED A CAMFILED....

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

Z7K)

JUL 2 $ 1963

SECRET

(NIC 692](5)

1n338

DocId: 32315034

Page 17

---

## Page 18

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREE

Friday

7/ 26/63

(NIC) SUMMARY (WE -970-S*) Continued (5)

4:45PM Call Continbed

TO LUIS SOMOZAJ [SJ

Dear LUIS J(5)

Your many congréssional freends in Washington were distre-

for the many kindnesses you have rendered them personally. A

luncheon had been planned in your honor in the Capital to render

public thanks. I am personally distressed that for some reason

you were not able to meet officially with the first family. Un-

hestitatingly I say to you that had I the opportunity to meet

with you - could have arranged such a meeting for you informal-

Ly, such as the President Eisenhower Tachito (ANASTACIO SOMOZA)LSJ

meeting.

I feel that this type confrontation is much better

than formal protocal diplomatic meetings which are usually time

Should you desire presidential appointment during your

next visit which I understand is in the near future, please advise

me and I will arrange it for you.

Nour Military Attache will confirm to you, I think, that IS

successfull that/I after much difficulty in preventing a

leading international columnist in writing about your recentt

visit to Washington. The columnist, together with many other

people in Washington, felt that an ex-President and power

inCs]

Latin America should not be subjected to the embarassment of CS

slinking about Washington.

LUIS, as a friend and a good American, I beg you to förgèt (5)

unpleasentness .of your last visit to the United States. ye

rive a great gratermli and undeestanding friend of your family

personaly and a friend of the Nicaraguan) people an opportunitys

to have your friends and the government of the United States to

reciprocate

to you in some small way for the

great friendship

vou and the Nicaraguan people have always shown to us. I am<s_

aware thatdthe Ambassador must conduct affairs according to ES

established protocal and is ready to suggests/ accept suggestions

of dae State department on how to handle your visit to the country

If you are satidfied with these arrangements so am I.However, I

àm still wanting to arrange an informal visit through my friends.

It is well known in

ashington by Republicans, Democrats and the

Kennedies,

that I supported LYNDON JOHNSON and NIXON in the

last election. It is also well knownthat I am a close friend

JIMMY HOFFA but because I make no bones about my friendship with

people in a ll walks of life I enjoy the position of trust and

the friendship that I maintain in washington, including the pre-

(NIC 693](5)

SECRET

DocId: 32315034 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Washington

Scuber

Friday

((WF-970-s*) Continued(S]

SECREE

7/26/63 (NIC]SUMMARY

4:45PM Call Continued

sent adminsitzation. I am confident that you know that I have

the best interest of your family and Nicaragua at heart. ForCS"

this reason please do not have to ready an ear for malicious

gossips.

here are too many jealous people about you who are

too quick to critize and give gratuitous advise.

With every good wish for your continued health and my best

regards to your wife and children, I remain,

DAVIDSON asks if this lays it on the line MORALES says it(S

and on the envrlope and send it airmaild MORALES says he is (5,

going to talk to himSOMOZA) on Wednesday. DAVIDSON says to 5]

tell him the DAVIDSON sent him MORALes, a copy of this letteres

MORALES will mention it and will tell DAVIDSON about it afterCs'

the talk as MORALES wants to tell DAVIDSON something that willes

go for the good of everyone. DAVIDSON says he wanted to pit in

there that he is a friend of HOFFA and JOHNSON as he. (DAVIDSON)

1s not ashamed of this as he is in public relations MORALESCS_

says -Surely, surely, you can't be bad at any/on/ every one.

DAVIDSON says he does not harm anyone in this letter except the

ones that are pinching.

DAVIDSON will send a copy to MORALES. MORALES promised to ESJ

call DAVIDSON

after calling(SoMOZA in the middlemof next week CS_

(English) RAB/rab

DocId: 32315034

Page 19

---

## Page 20

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

5/11/98

CLASSIPED BY STe6&-sus midi

Washington,

D.

Co SEARCHED …..

August 2, 1963

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

Friday

8/2/63 (NIC SUMMARY (WE 970-S*) (5)

SECRET

AUG 5 1963

FBI - WASH. F. O.

11:49am (DANILO SANSON

to Mrs. (CONWAT)

Jand ALVARO RIZE From New York. LS

(5) 3-IC

(DANILO

if the checks from the government have arrived LS

CONWAYsays, no. She says that there is nothing new at thels.

timbassy, but they are working hard there. DANILO says to keepS

the copy

of the washington Post containing the interview witt

KENNEDY.

CONWAY relates that she didn't see/the Ambassador)<5

mentioned at all. (ALVARO RIZO comes to the line. DANILO asks CS

what about MARKEL, land then asks if the Ambassador didn't re-CS.

(S)

more could the Ambassador want. DANILO continues that he knews

MARKEL would never ask the question but says thank God for the<s

telegram from KENNEDY.

That should suffice.

(Spanish)

JVS/ iVS (S]

1: 14pmI. IRVING

DAVIDSON to (General MORALES (S]

19-14

1-IC

DAVIDSON

says that he got back from New York and got a messageC..

from his secretary. MORALES says Fhat he (MORALES) casuallyCS

talked to him (LUIS SOMOZA) and said he (MORALES) received aLs."

copy of the letter DAVIDSON had sent to SOMOZA, MORALES

says tine(s)

that he talked to LUIS on Wednesday at TCHITO's blace Casa (S

Colorado, and LUIS said that he had not been down to the of-C5

fice yot, so that he hasn't received the letter or a report that

MORALES wrote. DAVIDSON says that he had a meeting with MARCOS < 5J

STERLING • DAVIDSON says that he also had a meeting with some

sad boys: ROLANDO MES FERRERE Sph). He says that he saw MORALES ES

SCOTO (phY DAVIDSON says that he doesn't (ST

PION CONTALES

HENRIO IS UNCTASSIELED EXCENT

PATRICE SHOAN OTEZINI SE

DAVIDSON says, regarding the Cuban situation,

that(LUIBIcan(s)

look like a jerk, if he's not careful and DAVIDSON wants te

advise him on the cuban situation. MORALES says that he is goinges

to Miami next week for a meeting,

wealthy part owner of the San Antonio Sugar Mill. Cs

make a profit and MORALES says, yes. DAVIDSON says

SECRET

(NIC 704705-1967834z34385

DocId: 32315034

Page 20

---

## Page 21

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Washington, D. C.

August 2, 1963

Friday

SECRED

1:14pm call continued

he wants MORALES) to go into his_ (DAVIDSON's) friend who ownss

the Miami National Bank. MORALESsays he wants to get thels

money here and put it in his account. He says that the house is

about two miles from KENNEDY'S. MORALEs says the present owner

vants $15,000.00 down with a mortgage of $28,000.00. (MORALES <5"

says that he wants to be able to put $4,000.00 down

the deal. MORALES says that he can then make up 3 or 4 thousandes

dollars himself in about two or three months and then

turn the

house over.

DAVIDSON

says

that he will be able to help and will find about

out about the time terms.

DAVIDSON says that he would like to give his view on how

Nicaragua could make a mistake by acting as a big shot and notes

following the

thing through. DAVIDSON says that ("Nicaragua)isLS"

a thousand miles away" (from Cuba). DAVIDSON says for another

thing, he is not violating the confidence of his government

but

there's going to be an invasion on a friendly country"

not Cuba.

"You know #ner they're going to knock out the black

man and I know when"

, approximately and that's where they are

going to have the base, not Nicaragua. NIcaragua wants to ES]

apture headlines, and the propaganda on LOUIE is very bad rightl

¡owo This has to be changed. They say LOUIE's advisors arecs

telling him wrong. DAVIDSON

(Apparently what DAVIDSON is saying is that we are going to in

vade Haiti, take 1t over and use it as a base to invade Cubad.

5:18

pm (CAMILU MEEKINS) to Amb. SEVILLA SACASA, LD to Miami, Fla.LS-

1-21

MEEKINS told SACASA of a prospect for employment as secretarys

2-0G

She is aY28Vyear old Puerto Rican, livingCs

and will interview her then. SACASA said heCS

Is sonding(MEEKINS a folder with some work to be distributed s

to various

member's of the embassy staff!

OK.

(Spanish) (S)

fo

SECRET

705](5)

80338-40441

DocId: 32315034 Page 21

---

