# docid-32298933

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10224-10213

HQ

109-430-19

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, HAVANA, CUBA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/22/1952

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

(Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF INS, USBP

COMMENTS : REFERRED TO INS, USBP

v9.1

DocId: 32298933

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Pleased under the Johh F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

- DAT : 11-14-2017

Office Memorindum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM :

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI

Legal Attache, Havana, Cuba (109-32)

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CONSTITUCIONAL

FOREIGN • POLITICAL MATTER

DATE:

May 22, 1952

Havana,

Cuba

rr05

FA

Re Miami tel May 19 last which transmitted information furnished

by this office to the effect that information had been received indicating

that there might be some trouble on May 20, 1952, this being the 50tholl

Anniversary of the Cuban Republic.

This is to advise

that May 20 passed without incident. A large

military parade was held and BATISTA was present. No effort was made to

molest BATISTA.

Mr. JOHN BONDS of the INS office here advised on 5-21-52 that he

had received iptormation from Nr. PluCHER of the border Patrol in Miami

that AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO is definitely in Santiago, Cuba. Mr. PILCHE

laimed that this information came from a source whom he considers completel

reliable.

It is believed that this information is most likely correct in

that Cuban investigating authorities, although they have not been able to

find SANCHEZ ARANGO, are still receiving information that he is in Cuba.

Contact is being maintained with all available sources although

this office is conducting no active investigation in this matter. It will

be recalled that original information received from the Cuban Army indi-

cated. that the revolutionary plan was to be put into effect.on the night

of May 31-June 1, 1952. It is believed that should Cuban authorities be

successful in locating SANCHEZ ARANGO prior to that date, there is small

likelihood

that any counter revolution will be started.

The Bureau will be advised of any new developments.

EXPEDITE

poor see

JUN

1952

CDA: JES

RECORDED - 52/04-0157-191

INDEXED - 52

104 430-13

JUN II 1952

20

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE 6 94 5 SPS MACGAT

04

(OFK

5 JUL 2

1952

DocId: 32298933 Page 2

---

