# docid-32307812

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10293-10170

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-172

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/05/1961

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32307812 Page 1

445

---

## Page 2

Lease

Awer the Dohn f. Kennedy Assassination Records

Correction

DATE: 11441-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIONI

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APR 5

1961

MELE IYPE

144 037

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Parsons.

Mr. Mohr_

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Callahan

MI. Conrad.

Mr. Deares

Mr. Malone

Mr.

Rosen_

Mr.

Tavel.

Mr. Trotter..

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy..

Hotel.

URGENT 4-5-51

8-18

PM CLM

TO DIRÉCTOR, FBI 192-3171/

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-3491

3P

whet

SÁMUEL MO CLANCANA, AKA, ARO DAILY SUMMARY!

CHICAGO INFORMANT MENTIONED IN CHICAGO TELS APRIL THREE AND FOUR

LAST LAST ADVISED SHE WAS CALLED

TO AMBER LIGHT LOUNGE IN MARCH SIXTY,

Ille

AND MET THERE SY BUTCH BLASI AND JOHNKMATTASSA WHO ESCORTED INFORMANT

INTO BACK ROOM IN WHICH WERE SEEN SEVERAL FULL LENGTH MINK COATS.

GIANCANA MET INFORMANT THEN AND ASKED HER OPINION OF THE COATS,

ASKING

HER TO TRY ONE ON. WENT BACK TO COCKTAIL LOUNGE, AND UPON LEAVING,

GIANCANA THREW INFORMANT THE MINK SHE HAD TRIED ON AND SAID QUOTE

YOU FORGOT YOUR COAT END QUOTE. INFORMANT STATES SHE NOW POSSESSES

COAT, AND HAS NEVER WORN SAME. AGREED TO ALLOW AGENTS TO VIEW COAT.

INFORMANT STATED THAT SEVERAL WEEKS AFTER MAKING INQUIRY RE ANGELO

SASEL, SHE RECEIVED A TELEPHONE CALL FROM CONSTANCE BLASI, WIFE OF

-BETCH BLASI, AND WAS WARNED IN DOUBLE TALK NOI TO LET HER CHILDREN

94

OF HER SIGHT, PARTICULARLY THE YOUNGEST TWO, NOTED THAT THESE

CHILDREN ARE FASEL-S,.

MRS. BLASI WOUL NOT ELABORATE FURTHER

CON THAT STATEMENT. INFORMANT STATES AS RESULT, SHE BREVES fELDREN

BYSP5 RJ6/

AND FROM SCHOOL AND MAINTAINS VERY CLOSE WATCH ON THEM.

INFORMANT

ENE PAGE ONE

66 APR 171981

cc Staffell

DooId:32307812

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

CONFRONTED GIANCANA AT ARMORY LOUNGE TWO

OR THREE MONTHS AFTER DIS-

APPEARNCE OF FASEL• ACCUSED HIM OF BEING RESPONSIBLE FOR HIS DISAP-

PEARANCE • GIANCANA FEINED INNOCENSE, HOWEVER, ADVISED INFORMANT THAT

FASEL WAS QUOTE WRONG GUY END QUOTE AND WAS BURGLAR, ARMED ROBBER

AND TOLD INFORMANT THAT FASEL KILLED A MAN ONE TIME. NOTED THAT

DOMINICK CHRISTIANO, ACCOMPLICE OF FASEL IN RIVER FOREST, ILLINOIS

BANK ROBBERY, WAS SLAIN IN NINETEEN FIFTY SIX. KNOWN, HOWEVER, THAT

CHRISTIANO WAS SHOT BY GEORGE WILSON, ANOTHER ACCOMPLICE IN ROBBERY,

AFTER

WILSON HAD BEEN SHOT BY CHRISTIANO. GIANCANA. APPEARED TO:

INFORMANT TO BE FULLY AWARE OF FASELS ACTIVITIES, AND KNEW OF EVERY

OCCASION IN WHICH INFORMANT CAME IN CONTACT WITH HIM. INFORMANT

STATES MANY TIMES AFTER SEEING FASEL, GIANCANA CALLED HER DOWN TO

ARMORY LOUNGE AND SCOLDED HER SEVERELY FOR SEEING HIM® STATED THAT

QUOTE HE WAS A BUM END QUOTE. FASEL HAD TELEPHONICALLY CONTACTED IN-

FORMANT TEN O-CLOCK PM JULY FIFTEEN LAST AXUAGON WHEEL, ROCKTON,

ILLINOIS TOLD INFORMANT HE WOULD SEE HER NEXT DAY. SAID HE HAD JUST

BEEN PAID BY EMPLOYER EDMEIR TRUCKING COMPANY, CHICAGO. NOTHING WAS

REMOVED FROM FASEL-S APARTMENT, ^ TO

INFORMANT, AND HE DID NOT CASH HIS PAY CHECK• INFORMANT ACCOMPANIED

AGENTS TO TIMBER TRAILS SUBDIVISION OF ELMHURST, ILLINOIS, WHERE IN

FORMANT STATES GIANCANA POINTED OUT HIS RESIDENCE. NOTED THAT THIS

END PAGE TWO

/ DocId: 32307812 Page 3

---

