# docid-32295524

## Page 1

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10215-10300

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-493

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

10/09/1963

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, NY FAMILIES, SUSP, CONSPR, FINANCES, ADVERSE

PUBLICITY, SENATE HEARINGS, POLIT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId; 32295524

Page 1

24

---

## Page 2

Releasell under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 41-14-2017

4-3 (Rev. 4-17-63)

AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

• CABLEGRAM

O RADIO xxX TELETYPE

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr

Casper .

Callahan

Conrad -

ADe Loade

nevans

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy =

URGENT

10-9-63

[TO/DIRECTOR,

'FROM"SAC 'NEW YORK

1-41 PM JLW

091540

"COSA HOSTRA, AR - CONSPIRACY.

SOCTOBER 8, LAST, NY 3461 - C - TE ADVISED CHARLES

[LOCIGERO TOLD HIM THE FIVE "FAMILIES" IN NEW YORK HARDUERSE

POOLED LARGE SUM OF MONEY WHICH IS BEING USED TO BUY PUBLICITY

LACHI AND SENATE HEARINGS. INFORMANT UNABLE TÒ

pASCERTAIN IDENTITY OF ANYONE WHO HAS RECEIVED PAYMENTS IN

O THIS EFFORT BUT STATED LOCICERO INDICATED CONTACTS BEING MADE

I TH PEOPLE IN NEWS MEDIA AND ATTEMPTS BEING MADE TO ESTABLISH

CONTAÔT WITH POLITICAL FIGURES IN EFFORT TO HOLD UP ANY

LEGISEATION WHICH MIGHT ARISE AS RESULT OF THESE HEARINGS.

INFORMANT ADVISED ABOVE CONVERSATION WAS VERY SHORT ANDEHE

DID NOT HAVE TIME TO FULLY DEVELOP INFO FROM LOCICERO BUT

IS

катаком

• CONTINUING HIS EFFORTS TO OBTAIN FURTHER DETAILS.

RECEIVED:

1:49 PM

FN

REC-I

43? 1

com:

22-0034

493

15 1563

+270:5i1

3 8 OCT 181963

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32295524 Page 2

---

