# docid-32404088

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

Released under the John

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10330-10103

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

Assassination Records

collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

: CIA

FROM

TO

J. BARRY HARRELSON

: DR. T.

JEREMY GUNN

TITLE

LETTER: REQUEST FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND RECORDS

NO. CIA-16 (OSWALD PRE-ASSASSINATION FILES)

AND NO.

CIA-IR-24 (DEFECTOR FILE)

DATE

PAGES

12/24/1997

1

SUBJECTS :

REQUESTS

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE

• OF LAST REVIEW :

03/11/03

COMMENTS : JFK-M-15 : F4

: 2000.02.07.11:18:40:467035

[R1 - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10330-10103

HH 53217

DocId: 32404088

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Central Intelligence Agency

+ ..

Washington, D.C. 20505

24 December 1997

DI. T. Jeremy Gunn

Executive Director

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E. Street, N.W. (2nd Floor)

Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Dr. Gunn:

Re: Request for Additional Information and Records

No. CIA-16 (Oswald Pre-Assassination Files)

and

No. CIA-IR-24 (Defector File)

This is a partial response to the ARRB's referent

request for pre-assassination files this Agency may have had

on Lee Harvey Oswald. It is believed the following comments

and two enclosed documents fully respond to the Office of

Security questions.

The Do response is pending.

1. At Tab A is a 22 December 1997 memorandum

containing information from the Agency's Office of Personnel

Security which provides details about the files it had on

Oswald prior to the assassination plus when and why they

were created. These include the Office of Security file on

Oswald, a general file on Americans who had defected to

another country and information about HTLINGUAL files.

2. Also enclosed at Tab B is a 27 October 1977

memorandum from the Office of Personal Security which

explains the numbering of that Office's file on Oswald. In

particular, it explains why the "missing" volume V may never

have existed.

3.

An ARRB staff member has reviewed the Oswald

Security file and the file on American defectors.

4. The Oswald Office of Personnel Security file and

those pages of the defector file deemed relevant by the ARRB

staff member have been forwarded to HRG for review and will

be processed

according to current release guidelines.

If you have any questions about this response, please

advise.

Sincerely,

J. Barry Harrelson

33217

Doc1d:32404088

Page 2

---

