# docid-32324685

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90030-10140

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 166-4028-76

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TEL AVIV

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/24/1972

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

MAURICE MEDLEVINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32324685

15

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (dise, 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

.. .

727

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAX 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Acting Director, FBI (166-4028)

DATE:

5/24/72

SUBJECT:

Legat, Tel Aviv (87-1) (RUC)

i saver.

MAURICE MEDLEVINE,

resile

aka - FUGIIVE;

LEO MEVER GUL' - FUGITIVE; I LATel 5-5

ITSP; CONSPIRACY; BOND DEFAULT

COUPENTIAL

7

ENCLOSURES:

Enclosed are nine copies of letterhead memorandum, dated

and captioned as above. Also enclosed for transmittal to Legat, Rome,

are single copies of photographs of each of captioned subjects.

4.

REFERENCE:

APPR

PRIATE AGENCIES

AND FIRED DETACES

4

ADVISED

OUTING

ADMINISTRATIVE:

SLIP (S.)

DATE DY

For the information of Legat, Rome,

LEO MEYER OGUL was born

on May 1, 1921, at Chicago, Illinois.

His father is SAM OGUL.

LEO

Алобом

MEYER OGUL was

issued U. S. Passport Number G996599, and entered Israel

April 18, 1970, subsequently departing May 20, 1970.

On July 15, 1970,

he re-entered Israel with the above passport, indicating his address

in the United States as 4936 Finley Avenue, Los Angeles.

As a result

of his registration as an immigrant, OGUL was given Israeli Identification

Card Number 1260590.

Background with régard to OGUL's fugitive status

is not available to this office; however, MEDLEVINE, who is currently

his fugitive status:

residing in Israet, his the following background, which is the basis for

ww

On September 11, 1970, a Federal Grand Jury at Los Angeles

returned an indictment charging MEDLEVINE with one count óf conspiracy,

Title 18, U. S. Code, Section 371, and 17 counts of interstate transpor-

tation of stolen property,

REC-1/616

my (4)

Bureau (Enc. 11) ENGLOSUr,,

(1 - Foreign Liaison Desk)

63(2 - Los Angeles, 166-1875)

2 - Legato

HR: ela

(8)

MAY 30 1972

5010-108-01

EX-10g

IN/ENTIAL

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regulars on till Bayroll' Savings Plan

DocId: 32324685

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act DI 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote).

DOTE: 11-14-2017

TEL 87-1

MEDLEVINE was arrested by Bureau Agents on September 29, 1970, at

Chicago, Illinois. On December 15, 1970, he failed to appear as

scheduled in U. S. District Court, Los Angeles, and a bench warrant

was issued by U. S. District Judge MANUEL REAL, charging MEDLEVINE

with bond default, Title 18, U. S. Code, Section 3150. He is described

as follows:

Name:

Race:

Sex:

Date of Birth:

Place of Birth:

Hair:

Eyes:

Height:

Weight:

Social Security #:

Scars and Marks:

MAURICE MEDLEVINE

White

Male

March 21, 1910

France

Brown

Hazel

5'9"'

190 pounds

563-38-8559

Plain irregular curve scar, 3" long,

1/4"' wide, right forehead, com-

mencing 1/2"' above inner right brow;

horizontal scar, 1"' long, 3/4" above

outer left corner of mouth;

brows heavy and connected

FBI Number:

U. S. Passport Numbers:

829 377

K-1628623, issued at Miami on

November 10, 1969;

Z-1216996, issued U. S. Embassy, at

Tehran, Iran, on July 14, 1970

Contact maintained with Israel National Police (INP) has

revealed that agency's reluctance to place stops for individuals

entering or leaving the country, since INP personnel utilized at the

border control sections of international entry points are not in a

position to maintain and appropriately utilize a system of stops when

these numbers become in any way extensive. INP, however, is willing

to place a "stop" in their border control records at INP

Headquarters

in Jerusalem, so

that when the frontier notification of a departure

or entry reaches border control records at INP Headquarters in Jerusalem,

a notation in the file will alert the person filing the departure or

entry notification to call this action to the attention of his superior.

This process would result in the stop being effective anywhere from a

week to ten days following the departure or entry of an individual of

interest.

For this reason, no stop was placed on subject OGUL, but,

because of his departure from Israel and the possibility of MEDLEVINE

following suit, INP is being requested to place a stop on MEDLEVINE.

2

COME

TAL

DocId: 32324685 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

s. "

TEL 87-1

COATENTIAL

SOURCE:

Confidential source abroad is Mr. YECHEZKEL CARTY, Officer

in Charge, Special Branch, DUP: (DU)

CLASSIFICATION:

Enclosed letterhead memorandum is classified "Confidential"

since unauthorized disclosure could reveal the identity of the source

and jeopardize his future effectiveness. Such unauthorized disclosure

could be prejudicial to the defense interests of the United States.

LEADS:

LOS ANGELES OFFICE

At Los Angeles, California:

(2) Will cantact atropiate sources to detemino dE la MYER A

OGUL has returned to the United States.

(2) Will expeditiously furnish the Bureau, for transmittal to

Legat, Rome, sufticient background data with regard to subject OGUL'S

fugitive status and physical description.

4

ROME OFFICE

At Nicosia, Cyprus:

Cyprus on November 12, 1971, and determine his destination if he

departed subsequently therefrom.

COMe ATAL

3

DocId: 32324685

Page 1

---

