# docid-32313855

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/26/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10333-10062

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 63-5327-1751

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

HQ:

TO: LA

TITLE :

DATE: 10/19/1961

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

HANK GREENSPUN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT, INCAT

v9.1

DocId: 32313855

Page 1

8

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection act of does tel

DATE: 11-14-2017

10/19/61

AIRTH.

TO:

FROM:

SAC, LOS ANGELES (62-4945)

DIRECTOR, FBI (63-5327) 20

JAMES KIDULA HOBER TIJ

REG- 17

MISCELLANROUS INFORMATION CONCERNING

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

1757

Reurairtel 10/17/61.

Incorporate the information received fron LA 4349-C

into a letterhead menorandum suitable for dissemination and

forward to the Bureau by return airtel. Designate copies for

Las Vegas and Now York.

Care and caution must be used in the preparation

. of

the letterhead memorandun so as to fully protect the identity

of the informant who should be described as a confidential source

who has furnished rollable infornation in the past.

1 - Las Vegas (92-506) (Info)

I - New Fork (Info)

PDW : eem

16) delu

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach.

rvons

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

08

MAILED 19

OCT1 9 1961

COMM-FBI

2 543

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32313855

Page 2

---

## Page 3

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATEC F-17-2097

a.0.

FBI

Date:

10/17/61

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRIEL

AIR MAIL

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (63-5327)

REG

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SAC, LOS ANGELES (62-4945)

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

On 10/17/61, LA 4349-C advised as follows:

Informant was in Laslegas, Nevada, on 10/16/61

at the Stardust

no each ting meet me Atel ed telephone st.

Informant does not know identity of caller.

conversation, DALITZ told caller,

"JIMMY is in town.

Why don't you go and see JIMMY and discuss it with him."

Informant of opinion DALITZ was referring to HOFFA being

In town.

Neilade

Informant said while in las Vegas he also met

and talked

Vegas Sun ""Ith HANKYGREENSPUS

an Application for Pardon with the AG and that they were

discussing this fact. GREENSPUN was angry over the fact

that he had not obtained his pardon from AG ROBERT KENNEDY.

The fact that GREENSPUN obtained a Teamsters Pension Fund

Loan for the "Las Vegas Sun" was discussed as a possible

reason GREENSPUN has not received his pardon.

3. - Bureau (AM) Las Vegae

Nevada

- Las Vegas

- RECK17

63-5327>

• Los Angeles

(1 - 137-255B)

751

AAH: nak

(7)

Nick.

IVan

OCT 19 1961

Approved:

квер

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

Per

DocId: 32313855 Page 3

---

