# docid-32308911

## Page 1

Released unner the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form •

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10297-10038

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-2557

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/07/1969

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

LCN, MEMBERS A/O ASSOC, MEETING, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32308911

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

•Release under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

D-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in.

Via

FBI

Date:

3/7/69

(Type in plaintext or code)

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority)

TO

KOM

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, PHILADBIPHIA

LA COSA NOSTRA

(PH FILE: 92-1027)(8)

CARL JAMES CIVELLA, aka Corcky

(OrigIn:

(PH FILE:

92-NEW)

VITO GENOVESE

AR

origin:

New York

(PH FILE: 92-672) (P)

RE Philadelphia Alrtel to Bureau, 3/6/69, captioned

as above.

298₴

FOLLOWING HIGHLY SENSILIVE; PARAPHRASE AND USE WITH CAUTION FOR'

70

REPORT PURPOSES:

92-370%8

PH-672-C-TE on 3/7/69 furnished following to SA J.

ROBERT PEARCE:

On the evening of 3/6/69, JOSEPH SCAFIDI, Influential

Capodecina, Philadelphia Family, La Cosa Nostra (LON), contacteo

- 5-- Bureau (REGISTERED MAIL)

12-6054-2551

3. - 92-6054

(LCN)

1 - 92-

CARL JAMES CIVELLA)

20 MAR

8' 1969

1 - 92-

(VITO GENOVESE)

FUNN

- Kansas City(REGISTERED MAIL).

New York(REGISTERED MAIL)

Newark (REGISTERED MAIL)

- Philadelphia

1-

92-1021

(ICN)

1 - 92-672

(VITO

GENOVESE)

92-NEW

CAKL, JAMES CIVE

1 - 137-4049 (PH-672-0-18)

8

JRP:

11 proved:

Sent

. M

Per

Agent in Charge

DocId: 32308911 Page- 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

-PH 92-1027

PH 92-NEW

Ph

92-672

Source and discussed highlights of meeting between SCAFIDI and

IGNATIUS DENARO, Underboss, Philadelphia, which had taken place

earlier, 3/6/69.

SCAFIDI, of Bridgeton, N.J., had traveled to

Philadelphia for this

meeting at the request of dEnAro.

SCAFIDI said that DENARO reported that ANGELO BRUNO had been to

see. "who he had to see" in regards to the refusal of JOSEPH

RUGNETTA, Consilieri, Philadelphia Famtly, to attend an Induc-

trade bra Feming.

tion ceremony previously scheduled, January 25-26, at Vineland,

NoJ., because the ceremony was being held in New Jersey and not

in the 'Philadelphia area.

BRUNO received instructions, be-

Ileved by Source to have been from a member of Commission, LCN,

to not create any friction in Philadelphia Family over the pro-

posed induction of three new members.

Additionally, Source was

On 3/7/69, JOSEPH SCAFIDI said

that he had, that day, discussed with DENARO the death of VITO

GENOVESE.

one of the largest in the LCN in the New York area.

of this LCN family was formerly the family of FRANK COSTELLO,

CARI, JAMES CIVELIA, aka "Corcky" was identified by SCAFIDI as

the person who DENARO had said was taking over GENOVESE's family

and would also be a member of Commission, ICN. DENARO belleves

that CARI JAMES CIVELLA w111 move to New York; however, this was

apparently an opinion.

Source Is scheduled to visit SCAFIDI, who is Source's

Capodecina, Sunday, 3/9/69, and any additional details in the

above matter will be brought to the attention of the Bureau and

Interested offices.

-

2

DocId: 32308911 Page. 3

---

