# docid-32298434

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10222-10210

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2914-1ST NR 7, 2ND NR 7

Document Information

Releaned ander are weir

eeabebrabber Reozzoe

€4 E20 2200 Febel.

abea 183, 45282 Caze:

--22-252-

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 01/22/1958

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

GM, SM, GAMBLING ACT, B/F INT, TRA, INSTR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/29/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

NW 45852 DocId: 32298434

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

JEK Act 6 (4)

PG 92-228

PG: 92-236

Sources mentioned in the attached memorandum are identified as follows:

The source in paragraph three is the Legal Attache, Havana, Cuba.

Information reported in Pittsburgh letter to the Bureau, 10/5/53,

entitled, "SAMUEL MANNARINO, waS., GIIF, TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM.

The government agency referred to in paragraph 4 18 the Internal

Revenue Service, Pittsburgh, Pa. Information furnished by SA JACK

SCHWARTZ, Intelligence Division, Internal Revenue Service, to

SA JOHN S. PORTELIA.

The source referred to in paragraph 5 18 PG 545-C contacted by

SA PORTELLA.

The government agency referred to in paragraph 6 1s the report of

SA JOHN C. SCHWARTZ,

Intelligence Division, Internal Revenue Service,

Pittsburgh, dated 12/5/57, received from the Bureau, 1/18/58.

The source referred to in paragraph 7 18

PCI,

Pittsburgh office,, who furnished Information to SA PORtELlA.

RALPH LE PORE, mentioned in paragraph 9, furnished Information to

SA JOHN D. ANTHONY.

The Bureau has instructed that these matters must receive immediate

attention with Bureau deadline of 2/13/58 set for submission of

next Pittsburgh report.

WFO and San Juan are requested to afford

all leads preferred attention in order to submit results of this

Investigation to reach Pittsburgh no later than 2/7/58.

GABRIEL MANNARINO IS SAID TO CARRY A SMALL CALIBER GUN DURING EARLY

MORNING HOURS THEN COLLECHING NUMBERS LAKE FOR THE DAY AT VARIOUS

CLUBS; SHOULD THEREFORE BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

SAMUEL MANNARINO SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS SINCE

ARRESTED IN 1931 AS SUSPICIOUS PERSON AND CARLING CONGLALAN

TEA PON.

REVIEWED BY PUASK TAST FORGE

ON

4121198 Cu

RELEASE IN SUAL

RELEASE IN PART

-2-

NW 45852

DocId: 32298434

Page 2

---

## Page 3

RE:

SAMUEL MANNARINO, WAS ,

GABRIEL MANNARINO, was

Records of the Alien Control Section, Department of Investigation,

cuban National Police, should be reviewed for background information

as to

the activities of the Mannarine brothers while operating in

Cuba.

In regard to travel, instructions have been receivea to

definitely determine whether the Mannarino brothers travel to Havana,

therefore, a complete review

of flight manifests should be made in the

Alien Control Section as to trips between Havana

and the mainland. (u)

S(u):

En mexicaner that arallahle sources and Informantabe contacted

verify or disprove the report that Gabriel Mannarino

and Charles Frederick Teemer are operating a gambling casino ano

nightclub as outlined above and whether the Mannarino brothers have

any current gambling or property interests operating under their

direct control or through, Charles Frederick Teemer or others.

Records of the Mexican National Police should be reviewed for back

ground information if available, regarding the Mannarino brothers,

especially any indication of previous travel into Mexico. O8(u)

One photograph each of Samuel Mannarino, Gabriel Mannarino, and

Charles Frederick Teemer are enclosed for Mexico City and Havana.

Complete physical descriptions will be found on the reverse sides

of each photograph.

Instructions have been received that these matters must receive

immediate attention with deadline set at February 13, 1958.

leads should receive preferred attention and results of investigation

submitted to reach Pittsburgh no later than February 7, 1958.

PREVIOUS INVESTIGATION DISCLOSED THAT SAMUEL MANNARINO WAS ARRESTED IN

1931 AS A SUSPICIOUS PERSON AND. FOR CARRYING A CONCEALED. WEAPONS ALSO

THAT GABRIEL, MANNARINO CARRIES A SMALL CALTBER GUN WHILE MAKING

NUMBERS COLLECTIONS. CONSEQUENTLY, BOTH MEN SHOULD BE CONSIDERED

ARMED AND DANGEROUS

- 3.

Foreian

NW 45852

DocId: 32298434

Page 3

---

