# docid-32291272

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote]:

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10207-10048

HQ

62-9-29-647

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/01/1963

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING, RACK AND SUBV, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32291272

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Recor

Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORFE NO. 10

UNITED STATES G

ERNNENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI,

FROM

!

Nºg SAC, MIAMI. (92-1023) (P)

SUBJECT:

CRIME CONDITIONS IN

MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA

/ ANTI-RACKETEERING

DATE

4/1/63

Re Bureau airtel to Miami, dated 3/26/63;

instructing that captioned case be placed in a pending

assigned status and that all possible investigative steps

be taken to penetrate the gambling and corruption situation

in Miami Beach.

The Bureau's instructions are being followed

with vigor ánd dispatch.

All Agents engaged in the investigation of hoodlum

and related activities have again been impressed with the

importance of developing in detail the desired information.

emphasis is being given to securing up to date data

In contacts with established Informants and sources, recerning

the crime picture in Miami Beach.

As the Bureau is aware, penetrative investigations

are going forward on a

continuing basis concerning numerous

Individual members of the hoodlum element in the Miami area,

some of whom reside locally on a permanent basis, others of

whom visit for a portion of the year during the winter months.

Many of these individuals have connections with Miami Beach.

In the pursuit of these investigations, the Bureau may be

assured that the Agent and Supervisory personnel of this

division will develop fully Information pertaining to the

crime picture in Miami Beach.

2

Bureau

4 = Miami (2 ÷ 92-1013)

192-515)

(1 - 13772206)3 bx /23

789=647

3. APR 3. 1963

EX-117

FWD: ded

(6)

62 APR 9 1963

DocId: 32291272 Page 2

---

