# docid-32312904

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10325-10153

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

97-4196-NR

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53130 Date:

06-01-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

08/10/1960

2

HARRY DEAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HW 53130 DocId:32312904 Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIFIED 8Y

6668

SLD/

DO DAE

DIRECTOR, FBI

(105-80787))

SAG, CHICAGO (E305-63802 KIC)

1300

CUBAN DUNEM

AGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED

STATES

INTERNAL SECURITY • CUBA

0.0. Miami

8/10/60

(V)

Re Chicago letter to the Bureau dated May

7 2, 1960g

and WrO airtel to Bureau dated May 18, 1960.

Since the date of referenced letter, contact has

been maintained with CG 5904-S.

This informant has been alerted

to obtain information concerning Cuban Intelligence activity.

To date he has boon unable to furnish any information (ou)

CG 6131-3 has advised that a VICTOR RIBINOWITZ

(phonetic), a New York attorney, came to Chicago on

about

June 15,

150, to organize a branch of & New York organization

know as

"aLE PLay Jor Cuba Committee.": This is & pro-CASTRO

organization desiring to obtain favorable publicity

for the

revolutionary governnent of Cuba to counteract recent unfavorable

press coverage of the Cuban government.

The organization in

Chicago is now being directed by JOHN ROSSIN (Chicago file

65-2054, Eureau file 6110469), and EICHARD CRILEY (Chicago

£11• 100-18080,

Bureau file 100-26567) • RIBINOWITZ has returned

to New York®

Chicago Office, by letter dated July 14, 1960,

captioned matiL CRAWFOrD, aka; advised the Bureau of

the results

of an interview of JOHN H. JOHNSON, President of the Johnson

publishing Conpany, employer of MARK CRAWFORD, mentioned in

referenced airtel.

JOHNSON described CRAWFORD as being, in his

ORIGINAL COPY FILED

opinion,

Joyal to the United States Government, but an opportunist,

lacking

in good judgment, and an arrogant and obnoxious individual,

while working on

a story

for the Johnson Publishing Company,

which publishes

"Ebony," "Jet," "Tan," and "Hue" magazines.

Contact has been maintained with other sources of

information in the Latin American field.

These are set out in

Chicago airtel to Bureau dated January 29, 1960. To date, none

has given any indication ofractivity on the part of the July 26th

Novement,

White Rose, or any other form of Cuban intelligence

activity

И!

Ciasslfied by 8P-8 8 T2) 01D,

9т-

4p1966

Bureau

(RM)

deglassity oin

NOT RECORDED

Miami (RM)

GIO

(4)

11489

6 23 7960

ALL INFORMATIÓN CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXGETT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

RET!

352 - 1018

HH 53130 DooId: 32312904

Page 2

---

