# docid-32339197

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90146-10029

HQ

105-93072-18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/16/1961

'PAGES:

22

SUBJECTS :

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

- RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

N9.1

HH 54464 DocId: 32339197

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

Report Form

FD-263 (F.ev. 5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

TITLE OF CASE

NEW YORK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON aka

DATE

5/16/61

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/15 - 5/4/61

REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY

JAMES F.

HESKETH

.1

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - CUBA

A-ENFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN 1S

ISSIRIED EXCERT

WHERE SHOWN OTRETTAGS

SYNO SEXXX

REFERENCES:

APPROT RIATE

JENCIES

AND FIEL

'ICES

ADVISED

KUTING

SHIP(S

YOF C

DATEL

3/10/2

Report of SA EDWIN C. TAYLOR at NY,

dated 3/31/61.

NY letter to Bureau, dated 4/10/61.

Letter of Legat, Paris to Bureau,

dated 3/30/61.

NY letter to Bureau, dated 4/26/61.

-P -

(0

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT KS289

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The indices of the NYO contain no information

identifiable with a LARRY WALINICK, Phoenix Book Shop, a S.

BANKER, IRVING SCHWARTZ,

a (FNU) SCHLEIFER, DONALD SINGLETON,

BEAUFORD. DEHANEY, GEORGE W. GEASEY, III, (FNU) GLICKSBERG Or

a (FNU) WOLFE.

0815/98

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

-aurau (224-5l6%a) (94)

IN CHARGE

1-Chicago (RM

1-Cincinnati (RM)

1-Washington Field (RM)

1-New York (105-42387)

115/94

Classhi

GAT

Declassi

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

10593072-18

REC 3

T6 MAY 17 1961

EX 109

. 0.

LLA/S

REC- Yo

EX 113,

Copy to: CIA:/State /RAB

CAT/OCT /G-2

• routine sics for ini

y 3/19/41 bybdc/i

PROPERTY OF FBI.-This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and ngi

Classi

y 1259

Exem

rom CDS, Category

Date

f Declassification Indelinite

its contents are 3p

sink

outside the agency to

HH

54464

DocT

132339197

Pare

2

---

## Page 3

NY 105-42387

By separate communication the St. Louis office

1s being requested to furnish background information contained

In subject's Army Service file.

Also, by letterhead memorandum, the Legat, England

1s being requested to attempt to identify a G. KAYE

and an

(ENU) CLAYMAN, both residing in England, who communicated

with the subject during April, 1961.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY T-1

LOUIS TANNENBAUM,

Program Officer,

Office of Cultural Exchange,

US State Department,

350 West 57th Street,

NYC (by request)

NY T-2

PH 575-S

*NY

T-3

3164-S

TAX T-4

JUNE COBB

"NYC

Toy request

NY

T-5

NY 711-S

File Number Where Located

105-42387-88

REVIENEO BY RENAL TASK FORCE

ON

3/18/98 mp-/dal

OI RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

D

TOTAL DENIAL

105-46537-35

105-42387-100

105-42387-102

105-42387-93

105-42387-106

NY I-6

NY 2524-S

105-42387-101

COVER PAGE

NW 54464 DooId: 32339197 Page 3

---

## Page 4

BEGRE TE

NY. 105-42387

Identity of Source

T-7

3227-S*

NY

I- 8

NY 3042-S

NY T-9

Mail Cover

NY T-10

FRED LA CHANCHE,

Signature Control

Secretary,

First National City

Bank, 399 Park Avenue,

NYC

(by request)

NY T-11

KENNETH PERRY,

Assistant Manager,

Chase Manhattan Bank,

Rockefeller Center Branch,

49th Street

and Rockefeller

Plaza, NYC

(by request)

NY T-12

CSNY -1

File Number Where Located

105-42387-113, 114

Instant report,

SA JAMES F. HESKETH,

Page 11

Instant report,

SA BOYD

B. HENRY,

Page 15

Instant report,

SA BOYD B. HENRY,

Page 15

Instant report,

IC JOHN T. DOWNEY,

Page 15

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed and I symbols were utilized only in those

Instances where

the identities of the sources must be

concealed.

- C..-

COVER PAGE

HH 54464 DocId:32339197 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NY 105-42387

Room 329, 799 Broadway, NYC, is the offices of Feir

Play for Cuba Committee.

The confidential source who furnished the Information

concerning subject's bank account is JOHN F. MULLADY, Credit

Department, Chase Manhattan Bank, Rockefeller Center

Branch,

49th Street and Rockefeller Center, New York City.

The confidential sources set forth in the

characterization for the Fair Play for Cuba Committee are

5824-5*41 X-(4)

AX TIL-S and a 52245lX Luces set sorth in the

The confidential.

characterization for the Socialist Workers Party are

NY 1013-S and NY 711-S.

COVER PAGE

SECRED)

HW 54164 DocId:32339197 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NY 105-42397

NY I-6 advised on April 17, 1961, that he hao

lunch with DANIEL WATTS in the Delegates Dining Room, UN

Secretariat, New York City.

During

their conversation

the informant said that WATTS admitted organizing the

demonstration at the UN in February, 1961.

the Informant that he is of the firm opinion

lie stated to

that violence

Is necessary to attract attention to the cause of the ICA.

He said that he dislikes the United States but sees hope

for 1t in the future, thereas RICHARD GIBSON dislikes the

United States and sees no hope for 1t in the future.

on April 21, 1961, DOROTHY TAMPONE, Clerk, New

York County Clerk's Office,

the

office's 1960 file number 6303, which

New York City, made available

reflects that a

Certificate of Incorporation for the Institute for the

Improvement of Inter-American Relations, Inc. was filed with

the State of New York, Department of State on May 19, 1960.

This certificate reflects that this organization's purposes

are educational and cultural.

information concerning Caribbean affairs and concerning

American diplomatic, cultural and commercial relations with

other nations and peoples of the Western Hemisphere by means

of publications, lectures and other media.

RICHARD GIBSON

1s listed as one of:

the directors of this

organization.

NY T-7 advised on April 22, 1961, that RICHARD

the conversation he told the informant that Mrs. ROBERT

TABER, wife of ROBERT TABER of the FPCC presently in Cuba,

was very much upset over the news that ROBERT TABER was

In a Cuban hospital with machine gun bullet wounds in

leg fromcovering

the recent fighting in Cuba.

stated that the

"New York Times" article of April 22, 1961,

concerning United States and CIA involvement with the counter-

revolutionary mercenaries, removed the last doubt about the

United States Involvement

and support.

He stated that there

was very good world wide reaction against the United States

on KHRUSHCHEV's reply to President KENNEDY.

-

8

HH 54464 DooId:32339197 Page 6

---

