# docid-32977072

## Page 1

Date

Page

06/25/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

NSC

145-10001-10199

: 200

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Hasassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54214 Date:

10-10=2017-

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSC

FROM : THOMAS A. PARROTT

TO : MR. BUNDY

TITLE : MEMORANDUM FOR MR. BUNDY

DATE : 09/30/63

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS : SUPPORT OF COMMANDOS L

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

MAR

2016

DATE:

[R]

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 54214

DooId: 32977072

Page

---

## Page 2

галі

EY

30 September 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. BUNDY

SUBJECT: Support of Comandos L

6(4)

You will recall that the attached proposal dealing with Comandos L,

has been discussed

several times by the Special Group.

It was first

tabled on the 15th of August and deferred because the paper had just

been

I distributed. It came up again on the 29th of August and you put

it over to allow Mr. McCone to give his personal views. It then was

thoroughly discussed on the 5th of September. An excerpt from the

minutes of that meeting is attached.

You then proposed to discuss it

with the Group on the 19th of September; in your absence I raised it

but got no reaction.

I fully realize that other considerations, particularly vis-a-vis

Gromyko, changed

the atmosphere somewhat, after the meeting of the 5th

of September.

A brand new development has now arisen, however, which

makes it desirable. to get a decision on this.

16,17

The new

development is that the FBI has passed to the British

• 8

fairly detailed and accurate report on the organization and planning

of Comandos L. Among other things, it mentions the plan to stage through

an island in the Bahamas, probably Andros.

The FBI, in proper cousinly

fashion, passes reports of this kind to the British from time to time,

when they involve British territory. The point is of course that if we

are going to cooperate with Comandod L, then we would want to get the FBI

to stop passage of such reports.

The operators feel that they could undoubtedly pick up useful contact

again, and they still believe in the project.

State is still dubious.

Ed Martin said the other day, in Johnson's absence, that Johnson's under-

was that if you got a favorable reaction from HA, you would then

put this back to the Department and allow them to open up discussions all

over again. This was by no means my understanding of what you proposed

to do (although of course this was before any change in general climate).

I am sure I accurately reflected what you said at the September Sth meeting,

and I think

suggested your general attitude, which did not seem to be as

Martin describes it.

Attachments

2..

: ;

1831

aide indiced

..

in " EXES ORKY

HH 54214 DooId:32977072

Page 2

---

