# docid-32300832

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10277-10167

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3267-614

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/05/1964

3

JRO, ASSOC, BKG, B/F INT, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32300832

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19p2 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATEd (td4 48-23937

FBI

Date:

9/5/64

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

SAC,

LOS ANGELES (92-113-C)

JOHN

ROSELLI, aka

AR

(P)

IV 10-C advised that on 9/2/64 mail which was being

held for ROSSELLI at the Desert Inn Hotel in Las Vegas had

been picked up.

This informant did

not actually see

ROSSELLI in Las Vegas.

On the morning of 8/31/64 Special Agents of the

Las Vegas Office observed KATHY HORDEN, ROSSELLI's current

girl friend, driving a new Buick Riviera bearing Nevada

I1cense plates CF 3019, near the Desert Inn Hotel.

She was

thereafter observed to drive to 213 Kendall, where she parked

in front of an apartment.

DMV records, Las Vegas, reflect CF 3019 is registered

to a J. A. BOYD, 3501

Maryland Parkway, for a 1957 MG.

to be noted that in Nevada, the license plates go with the

owner rather than the vehicle when the vehicle is sold.

LA 4268-C advised that he observed ROSSELLI at the

Friars Club in Beverly Hills on the afternoon of 9/1/64 and

at about 3:00 p.m., ROSSELLI was playing cards. Later in the

afternoon, ROSSELLI remarked

I that he was 56 years old and that

old age was creeping up on him.

ROSSELLI also remarked that he

"would like to go back to the church" and would

"like to make

his peace with his God." Informant and ROSSELLI then talked

about Jews in Italy after ROSSELLI had made some remark

indicating he was anti-semetic in his feelings.

During the

conversation, informant asked ROSSELLI,

"Whereeare you from?"

3/- Bureau

1 - Las Vegas (92-467) (Info) (AM) REC- 39

923267-

2 - Los Angeles

HFD/bje

IG C- Wick

1857 SEP 7 1364

Approyed:

EX-108

Sent

_M Per

Spectal Agent in Charge

DocId: 32300832

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PRefeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote}:

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-113-0

ROSSELLI answered the question by saying that his parents

are from Rome and did not make any statement relative

to his birthplace.

LA 4260-C was not at the Friars Club on 9/2/64

and therefore does not know if ROSSELLI was there. However,

ROSSELLI was playing cards at the club on the afternoon of

9/3/64.

On 9/3/64 LA 4513-PC advised that he had talked to

ROSSELLI at the Friars Club (on either 9/2 or 3/64) relative

to money owed by Selena Enterprises, Inc. to Arnold's

International Travel Agency.

It is recalled that ROSSELLI

has been interested in the activities of Selena Enteprises,

Inc. and has loaned money to the company.

One of the members

of the firm, ROBERT ABRAMS, worked for ROSSELLI's firm, Nevada

Concessions,

Inc. ROSSELLI told LA 4513-PC that he had previously

paid Selena's account with Arnold's Travel Agency and that he

was not assuming any responsibility for subsequent bills.

ROSSELLI said that he had had an agreement

prises

for a one third interest in

but that this did not materialize.

He added that he had loaned

ABRAMS $1,000 last week; that he and ABRAMS had "traded checks"

but ABRAMS' check was no good.

Information has been previously set out that in July

1964, ROSSELLI received a $2,500 check drawn on an account of

MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN at the American City Bank, Los Angeles,

and that the endorsement on the check indicated it was for

one

half of finder's fee for Sam Anderman loan. -

Examination of FRIEDMAN's account at the American City

Bank revealed that the account was opened on June 16, 1964.

On June 25, 1964 a deposit of $25,000 was made to the account.

This money was the proceeds of a loan obtained from the bank.

Examination of the loan account revealed that the loan was

obtained on June 25, 1964 and that MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN and

3 36 e that идит

LEE RAINER were CO-signers of the note.. The note is due or

January 25, 1965 and the stated purpose of the loan was

• "Real

Estate Investment."

RATNER furnished his address as Lee County

Land and Title Company, 800. 71st, Miami, Florida. It is noted

- 2 -

DocId:32300832 Page 3

---

