# docid-32337236

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/17/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90137-10002

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-105911-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE:

DATE: 01/02/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

HERBERT STREAKER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO .

v9.1

DocId: 32337236

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 411 05C 2107 Hote) -

DATE? 11-14-2017

Belmont

Sullivan

Donahoe

- Liaison

1

-Dunn

CIA MAR NOT TESTRY TA

IN DIS DOCUMENT. KP 11-6-97

sed prese

2-10-91

6/2448

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

(IFK

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERELN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPI

OTHERWISE.

WHERE SHOWN

Date:

• Jenuary 2, 1962

Tos

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Litention: Deputy Director, Plans

From:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

1-25-94

Chees

Ta By 3943200/ely

Subjects

HERBEET

STREAKSE

Declar

1 Cale

MAER

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

2/L326

(5668540/0C1 A/2S - 5z)

Reference is made to the memorandun dated October 25,

1961, at Baltimore, Maryland,

captioned "Wayne Rider Powell,

Is - Cuba, Jerry Michdel Welsh, IS - Cuba. "

Enclosed for each recipient is a copy of a memorandum

dated December 11, 1961, at Baltimore, Marylond, entitled

"Wayne

Pider Powell, Jerry Michael Melsh. " Also enclosed for each

recipient are single copies of the envelope and letter mentioned

in the memorandum.

It is requested that recipient agencies gavise as

to whether they have of can obtain any information regarding

CS. Apartado 3026, Habana,

Cuba."

We would be particularly

interested in background data on the individual to whom this

post office box might be registered.

'Iy it is registered to

whe cuban Government, we would appreciate being aduised as

o unether recipient agencies have received any prior data

indicating that the post office box is being utilized by

the

Cuban Government for the receipt of information from pro-lastro

individuals in the United statesy

We would appreciate on

early reply in this matter on

1105911

BEC

Tolson

Enclosures (3)

Belmont

Mohi -

I - Office of security

Callahan -

Department of State

(Enclosures - 3)

125 JAN 3 1962)

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans

1 - Baltimore

Malone

Rosen

JD: bar: br

Sullivan

Tavel

(10)

158

SE NOTE PAGE TWO

Trotter

Téle: Room _I

Ingtamt..

1962

Gandy -

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

ISECRET

DocId: 32337236 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Coltection Act of 1992(14 USe 2107 Hote).

, DATE: - 11-I4-2017

SECRET

Director

Central Intelligence Ageney..

NOTE:

{Classified "Secret" as it sets forth data regarding

subjectiuho could possibly be utilized by us in a double agent

capacituas see cover memo Donahoe to sullivan 12/20/01, same

subject, prepared by JIDiaKg(

SECRET

- 2-

66006

DocId: 32337236

Page

---

