# docid-32340970

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10221-10363

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-4TH NR 362

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

•PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

06/07/1967

2

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32340970

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection

Aot of 1992 .14.050.

2107

DATE: 11-11-2017

-----18-

FBI NEW

YORK

SEgRET!

544PM

URGENT 6-7-67 AWS

TO DIRECTOR 97-4194

hir.

Dulnuch.

?Ir. Jinhr...

Air. Wick-

nIr. Caxpor..

! Sir. Crilahan.

Wir.

Contad...

Hir. Fost

Bir. Gilo

fir.

Rosen

Mr. Sullivan e

Mir. Tavel.

Mr. Troiter.

Tele. Room.

Miss Moires.

Miss Gandy...

FROM NEW YORK 105-39412

Classified y

BTAKEL

Declassify on: JADR 9/25/85

472

ALL

HEREIN

MON CONTAINED

UNCLASSIFIED

SHOWN

CUBNAL; INTERNAL SECURITY DASH CUBA, REGISTRATION ACT DASH

CUBA; NEUTRALITY MATTERS DASH CUBA 44/12/90

JFK

place e+584-44919

RENYTEL, JUNE SIX LASI.

WILLIAM SAMPOL, WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFORMATION IN THE

PAST, CLASSIFY SECRET, ADVISED ON JUNE SEVEN INSTANT THAT HE HAD BEEN

IN TELEPHONIC CONTACI WITH BOTH IGNACIO NOVO, SECRETARY GENERAL OF

THE CNM, AND

HIS BROTHER, GUILLERMO NOVO, AND NEITHER HAD GIVEN ANY

ORIGINAL FILED

INDICATION. OF ANY IMMEDIATE CNM ACTIVITY. SOURCE ADVISED BOTH

WERE EXTREMELY GUARDED IN THEIR TELEPHONIC CONVERSATION. HOWEVER,

SAMPOL GAINED THE IMPRESSION FROM STATEMENT MADE BY GUILLERMO NOVO

THAI DOCTOR ORLANDO BOSCH, HEAD OF MOUMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL

DE ABCUZERACION REVOLUCIONATIA SER WISH UNG COAR ME YORK

CITY HAD ENTERED INTO DISCUSSIONS CONCERNING

FUTURE ACTIVITY HAD

RETÚRN TO THE MIAMI, FLORIDA AREA. RECL

NOT RECORDED

SOURCE HAS ARRANGED TO BE PRESENT AT NEW JERSE

141 JUNT STORE

"OF

NOVOS ON EVENING OF JUNE SEVEN INSTANI, AT WHICH TIME HE WILL BE ALERT

END PAGE ONE

IC 02107

CORRIS NO NEW.

1w6/816

JUN/

N3 1967

RETUN

RETURNED

FTI3

RELAYED TO

89 JUN 1 5 1967

SECRET

DocId: 32340970 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 rote).

DATE: -11-14-2017

SEGRET

PAGE IWO

TO ALL OPPORTUNITIES TO DEVELOP INFORMATION CONCERNING CNM PLANS

AND THE AGTIVITIES OF THE NOVOS THROUGH CONVERSATION. C(UL)

SAMPOL WILL

PROMPILY ADVISE NEW YORK OFFICE OF ALL DEVELOPMENTS

AND NEW YORK OFFICE WILL FURNISH ALL INFORMATION PROMPTLY TO BUREAU

AND INTERESTED OFFICES.

MAIL COPIES SENT ALBANY, MIAMI AND NEWARK.

END

HOLD

- 19-

--FBFBI NEW Y

sectien

DocId: 32340970

Page 3

---

