# docid-32298749

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10224-10029

HQ

63-50-5, 6, 7, 8

Released under the John

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992 144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 45854 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, PG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/27/1955

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

SMO, ASSOC, REL, RES, POLIT ACT, B/F INT, GAMBLING

ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/29/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS : INC 4 MEMO

v9.1

HH 45854

DocId: 32298749

Page 1

---

## Page 2

2

Office Mem

UM • UNITED ST

OVERNMENT

: DIRECTOR, FbI

53/29/56

FROM

: SAC, PITTSBURGH (94-172 Sub M)

SUBJECT! SAMUEL

MANVARINO, waS.

GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE

INTELLIGENCE FILE

(TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM)

Re SAC letter 53-58 dated 8/25/53 and Pittsburgh letter to

the Bureau dated 9/27/55.

who in the past has supplied reliable

MANNARINO own a part interest in Club 30, Chester, Wea

ATEEVER and several other men of the

Pittsburgh and Tri-state area. Informant stated that this

club is making so much money from the gambling that takes

place at the Club that it is almost impossible to estimate

the amount.

who in the past has supplied reliable

Tormation, PaLa 3A DOAN SE PORTELLA Est numbers are

being booked at the Ninth Street News Stand and that they

are picked up by a man named UTI (Phonetic) who informant

is almost certain turns them in to SAMand KELLY-NANNARINO

who are really the numbers bank in New Kensington, Pa.

reflected that in 1951

New Kensington, information&/ The files of the Pittsburgh

source of this

Office reflect that MIKE MIRANDAsis a prominent New York

City hoodlum who allegedly moved in on the dress contractor.

in the Pennsylvania Dutch area, and that MIRANDA is belleve

to have formed an alliance with DAVE DUBINSKY and- ALBERT

On 1/23/56 PG545-C, who in the past has supplied reliable

information advised SA PORTELLA that SAM and GABRIEL

MANNARINO own part of the Family Outdoor Theater in Nev

Kensington andare seriously getting interested in the

manufacturing

os/outdoor theater speakers.

-50-

Pittsbursh

CORDED - 34

JSP/ amc

., INDEXED - 34

APR 9

1956

45854

DocTd: 32298749

Page

---

## Page 3

• * PG 94-172 Sub M

Informant further advised that the MANNARINOs are purchasing

large tracts of land around the New Kensington countryside

for speculative purposes.

Informant stated that the MANNARINOS

are connected with the Buffone and Buffone Construction

Company and that they continue their friendship with PHIL

BETTOR, whom SAM MANNARINO describes as his bookkeeper.

Informant stated that BETTOR boasts of keeping a dual

set of books for his customers, one is a true set and the

other is for the scrutiny of the Internal Revenue Service

and other Government agencies.

PG- 545-6

stated that in talking to SAM MANNARINO he has

gathered the impression that GABRIEL MANNARINO is now

controller of the purse strings because GABRIEL has been

able to hold onto his money and SAM has been forced to

borrow from time to time in order to keep his head above

water.

information in the past, advised SA PORTELLA that Deputy

associate of Mayor DAVID L. LAWRENCE and newly-electe

Jistrict Attorney EDWARD BOYLE, may attemot to obtain the

okay

for mentlike SAM MANNARINO and JOHNALA ROCCA to move

the Pittsburgh gambling setup. PCT stated that he

believes

that this will happen, because SPANKARD is very

close to the MANNARINOs and LA ROCCA and on extremely

friendly terms with the Mayor and the District Attorney.

A summary of the report of former Deputy Collector of

the Intelligence Division of the Internal Revenue Service.

JEK Law 11(a)

• 2 =

REVIEWED EY EBJEK TASK FORCE

ON 2-20-98 cul

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

63-50-8

TOTAL DENIAL I

11(0)

45854 DooId:32298749

Page 3

---

## Page 4

dat

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC,

SALT LAKE CITY (94-142)

SAMUEL

MANNARINO, WAS.

GIIF (TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM)

DATE: 10/24/55

Re Pittsburgh letter 10/11/55 and Bureau letter

10/6/55.

JEK Act 6 (4)

telephone operator,

Wilbur Clark's Desert Inn Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada,

is a PCI

of the Salt Lake City Office who furnished

information re-

garding SAM MANNARINO which was incorporated into a letter

to Pittsburgh dated 6/9/55 entitled "SAM MANNARINO; JACK I.

DRAGNA, JOSEPH "DOC"'

STACHER, GIIF."

BCW : MEN

(4)

'1 - Piütsburgh (94-172 Sub M)

1-11

RECORDED-89

EX. - 103

63-58÷7

28

20 OCT ST 1955,

3

deniets

dirt citi)

NECFIAFO

3:0860.22

NOV 1

1955

HH

45854

DocId: 32298749 Page 4

---

## Page 5

JEK ACt

Letter to Director, FBI

PG 94-172 Sub. M

On 7/5/55, Detective Sergeant JERRY KEDRIERSKI,

Miami Beach Police Department, advised the Miami trice

that MICABLAGIORANO is an individual known as NICK NEROME

who was active a rew years ago in the management of Mother

Kelly's, a former hoodlum hangout in Miami Beach and in the

gambling casino of the Sans Souci Club, Havana, Cuba.

Sergeant KEDRIERSKI stated that his sources advise him

that JEROME is married to MADELINE ROWL.

NICK JEROME has

Miami Beach Police Department

#13178 and FBI #217633B.

6(4)

on 5/29/55;

a PCI who in the past

has supplied both reliable and unreliable information,

advised SA JOHN R. ACKERLY of the Pittsburgh Office that the

MANNARINOS Of New Kensington, Pa. backed the defeated candidate

for constable in the First Ward of Pittsburgh, Pa. in an

Dent to min a toothold milan delus in tie

burgh and Allegheny County.

_stated that candidate

BRUNO BRASH, received upwards of $25,000 from the MANNARINOS

for his campaign and had he been elected the MANNARINOs would

then have the o.K. to operate.

SAMUEL MANNARINO continues to reside with his son-

in-law, VICTOR CARLUCCI, at 201 Highland Avenue, New Kensington,

pa.

and continues to operate the Nu-Ken Novelty

Company and

the Ken Iron and Steel Company, both in New Kensington.

Citin

45854

DooId: 32298749

Page 5

---

