# docid-32306695

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Coilection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10290-10335

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-2973-166

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HILL, WAYNE W.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/18/1965

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/29/1998

JFC, ASSOC WITH BRUGAD

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DocId: 32306695

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records CoLlection Act of 1992(11 USC 2107 Hote

DATE: 11-14-2017

...

" s.

LA' 92-107

responsibility of DESIMONE to relay the instructions of the

"Commissione" to the "Bosses"

of other Western

"Brugads"

LICATA did not further identify such groups.

He did mention that DESIMONE had numerous expenses in connection

with these trips.

He also mentioned that DESIMONE had to go

"out east"

at least a half dozen times last year and after

such trips he had to relay instructions to certain other

"Bosses"

Again, LICATA did not further identify such contacts except

to mention that DESIMONE had, among other contacts, relayed

"the Boss in Texas"

on at least one occasion last year. (This may possibly be

JOSEPH FRANCIS EVELLO of the Dallas, Texas area, known

at least on occasion in the past, to have been in contact

with the Los Angeles "Brugad

LICATA then told informant in strict confidence --

requesting informant not to discuss this with any other

"member"

of the "Brugad"

we attend

-- that DESIMONE had to be in

New York on 1/25/65, to attend a meeting of the "Commissione"

LICATA did not state that he knew the purpose of

this meeting, but speculated

• "Brugads" in La Cosa Nostra. He did

be necessary for DESIMONE to contact other

relay "Commissione" instructions.

The san Diego Office advised on 1/20/65, that FRANK

DESIMONE's car was last observed at the residence of PETER

MONTANA, El Cajon, California, at 10:45 a.m., 1/17/65, by

a neighborhood source.

The San Diego Office advised on 1/21/65, that a

check of all reservations on flights from San Diego to New

Fork and chicago through 1/25/05, were negative as to any

reservations for FRANK DESIMONE or for any reservations

where the home telephone of PETER MONTANA was furnished as a

call back number. Stops were placed with the airlines.

LA 4448-C-TE advised on 1/22/65, that FRANK

DESIMONE had departed for his meeting in the east on 1/20/65.

-G-

COVER PAGE

Sa0-1005

DocId: 32306695 Page 2

---

