# docid-32291895

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: › FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10208-10171

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

87-66742-175

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, DN

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/11/1963

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

PAL, ASSOC, REQ, DESCR, PHOTOS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

_11/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32291895

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Kate):

k* DATE: 11-14-2017 •

10/15/63

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

• Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes LY

Gandy

TO:

SACS p

CHICACO (37-19740)

DENVIC- (97-8318)

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (87-66742)

CHARLES WILLIAM BRAY

FELIX ANTIONY AVERISIO

EL AL.

ITS?; ME; ITAB - EXTORTION

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

(00: Ma) .

175

ReDNairtel dated 10/11/63.

It appears Obbie Frabotta, reterred to in reairtel, is

identical with case cantloned "ALBERT FRABOTTA, ARA.; AR, " 00:CG,

Butile 92-5782, CGfile 92-689.

It appears further that Chuckie Inglish is identical with

case captioned

"CHARLES ENGLISH, eka.; AB,* 00:0G, Bufile 92-5347,

CG211e 92-917.

The Chleago Office is instructed to imnediately furnish

Denver photographs, descriptions and background inforation concern-

Ang Ixebotta and Sng isa.

In addition, Bureau desires that Chicago

maintain close contact with informants and other sources in & position

to furnish intormation on Frabotte and Inglish in order that their

current activities can be determined on on up to-date basis.

Bureau,

Denver and Miami should be advised immediately in the

revent infornation is developed to indicate either one or both

of these individuals may be planning to travel to Deuver.

The Denver

011100 should maintain close contact with

DN 249-C

for any infornation pertinent to this matter.

I. - Miani (87-16430) (Info)

WAF : eem

(7)

NOTE: Frabotta and English are subjects of current Top

Hoodlum

Investigations by the Chicago Office.

Frabotta alleged to

be strong-arm man and syndicate killer in Chicago area and has

been observed in the presence of Alderisio on several occasions.

English is alleged to be

a lieutenant of Chicago hoodlum Sam

Giancana

and his organization controls on-track betting at

Sportsman's Racetrack, Cicero, Illinois. INFORMATION CONTAINED

06: 81 1963

HENSIN IS UNGLASSIFIED

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

DATE L/23/86

DocId: 32291895 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19p2 (11 USC 2107 Hotel?

DATES R1+112916.

FBI

Date:

10/11/63

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL.

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL.

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (87-66742)

FROM:

SAC, DENVER (87-8318)

CHARLES WILLIAM BRAY, ET AL.

ITSP; MF; ITAR - EXTORTION

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

DN 249-C reported today that some four years ago,

he was in frequent contact with FELIX ALDERISIO in Chicago

and at that time ALDERISIO's close associates were OBBIE

FRABOTTA and CHUCKIE ENGLISH who were generally rumored to

be muscle men for ALDERISIO who would ordinarily be called

upon to handle any "muscling" operations for him. Informant

expressed the opinion that if ALDERISIO has any intention of

actempting to do away with EGAN in Denver or elsewhere, it is

his belief that FRABOTTA or ENGLISH might be assigned to handle.

the job.

If recent investigation of ALDERISIO appears to

substantiate this information, it is suggested that complete

descriptions and photos of FRABOTTA and ENGLISH be forwarded

to Denver immediately together with most recent photo of

ALDERISIO.

Bureau (AM)

Chicago (87-19740) (AM)

2

3

- Miami (87-16480) (AM)

Denver- (1 7: 6241912)

(1:1 137-978)

PEB:nls

(10)

008 11

10 00 6N 0E3

REGE 32

84-66-9420175

• OCT T4 1963

curter

Sent

hafa

ALL INTORMATION CONTAIMED

FISCAN BUNGLASSIFIED

DATE/ 23/84 BY Spre

DocId: 32291895 Page 3

---

