# docid-32276732

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2016

AGENCY :

NARA

RECORD NUMBER:

176-10030-10261

RECORD SERIES: RICHARD GOODWIN PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Released under the John

?. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 55510 Date:

12-12-2017

DATE: 05/12/1961

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

CUBA, COVERT ACTION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

MEMO

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

From the Papers of Richard Goodwin: Subjects, Cuba, Covert Action, Box 4, Item 3a

v9.1

H# 55510

DocId: 32276732

45

Page

---

## Page 2

0091-2554

EVES ONLY

SECRET

12 May 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT

Meeting with ing. Manuel Ray

PARTICIPANTS: Ing. Manuel Ray

Ernesto Betancourt

Rogelio Cisneros

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

Ray did not return to Washington until early morning on Friday,

12 May 1961: He called me at 0700 from the airport:

He was unable

to thia definite hour for us to get together due to the fact that he was.

expecting an appointment with a person he did not name some time.

during the morning. He later called a number of timee from the Hotel

Ambassados to advice me that he still had had no word on hle appoint.

ment. At IS, Mt Betancourt called to day that he was with Ray

and "Tugerlo", (Rogello Cieneros) and could we get together oug

gested they drive out to the Clarendon Hotel Court on Wuson Boulevard

where had takon of room for bolding out meeting. They arrived in

Mr. Betancourtlo cor at appronimately 1230 noon time and we firet

went to the nearby Hogate Restaurant on Wilson Boulevard for lunch

before we got down to the business of the prospectus?

During luach we did not discuse the pian but I did take the ope

portunity to stress in a mont serioas way the need for absolute secrecy

concerning our discussions today and any future discussions or devel.

opmento which might taxe place in the futuro with respect to our relation-

chips All agreed on the need for tight securtty.

3. After lunch we drove to the Hotel Court and from approximately

1330 until 1730

we discussed tho prospectus.

Using Mr Barnest outs

Ine as a general guido, stressed the importance of being able to present

ONLY

-SECRE

HH 55510 Do0Id:32276732

Page

2

---

## Page 3

EYES ONLY

SECRET

- 2-

to the proper people at the carliest possible time a carefully thought-

out plan of action which would set forth clearly the objectives -- what

the project hoped to achieve; a statement of the problem; the strengths

of the Castro regime following the ill-fated invasion; the status of the

underground and its morale and capabilities; the extent of internal

support for and discontent with the regime, etc., ete.

"also spoke of the need for describing the kind of activities

which the Ray organization planned to engage in and the assets and

capabilities which they have or can acquire to do the job. The need for

explaining the relationehip and coordination of the plan with the Revolu

tionary Council was discussed at some length.

5. I suggested that he include in the plan an itemization of the kinde

of support which he would expect us to supply iramediately as well as the

kind and quantity of support which would be required of us as the project

developed.

6. 1 also suggested that the plan include their views on how U.S.

liaison and coordination could best be worked out; how funds would be

tunneled into the project; what commo and other training would be re-

quired, whether U. S. "real estate" would be needed, etc,

7. Ray outined some of his thoughts regarding his proposed plan

of action. According to bim it contemplates action in three broad fielde:

(a) Underground activity -- principally sabotage - In the

urban areas:

(b): Gradual buildup cr largely through clandestine infiltra-

Mons of small bodies of men = of guerrila forces in mountain-

ous and defensible area.

(9A psychological warfare campaign within Cuba and abroad

aimed at discrediting Castro and at the same time providing the

people of Cuba something to fight for

It Is Ray o intention to depend almoat entirely on maritime opera-

tions for the infiltration of personnel and materiel into Cuba, He also

rules out of bie plan the creation of another invasion army but does con-

template the training of groups of perhape up to 150 men in other friendly

EYES ONLY

SECRE

HH 55510 Do0Id:32276732

Page

3

---

## Page 4

ONLY

SECRE

-3-

countries of South America (be mentioned Venezuela as a possibility)

and said he would explore the possibility of basing maritime operations

in non-U. S. porta.

Ray said some means, other than Swan Island, must be found

fox reaching the Cuban population by radio broadcasts. He spoke of

the possibility of short wave broadcasts from Venezuela and utiliza-

tion of a commercial station in Miami which he understands Can be

clearly beard in Cuba,

10. Ray spoke of the desirability of stimulating the organization

of "Bro-True Cuban Revolutionary" student groups in many countries

of Latin America the said a successful organization has been formed

in Puerto Rico) and of sending qualified representatives to those Latin

American countries where there is Soviet diplomatic representation to

contact student and labor groups and leaders in an effort to present to

them the true picture of the sorry state of students, workers, and

Intellectuale in Castro's Cuba

113

Ray is also interested in the possibility of putting out a "Newe

Letter" under MRP sponsorship which would discues various aspecte of

the Cuban ploture and set forth plans for Cuba after the fall of Castro.

He thought such a news letter could go a long way towards correcting

mistaken impressions among American univeraity professore and in

other circled as to the true nature of the Caatro regime. He pointed

to the recent letter from 63 Harvard professore which was recently

published in the N. To Times as a "horrible example" as to how mis-

Informed oven university professors are on present day Cuba:

12.-Wben the discussions got around to the need for conducting

operations at least "under the umbrella" of the Revolutionary Council,

and the need for obtaining Dr Viro & concurrence before the u. S.

would be able to support any operation, it was obvious that neither

Ing, Ray nor Mr. Betancourt holds a high Impresoion of the Council

Both feel that there is a strong possibility that the close public

identification of the Council with the recent Invasion may well have

discredited the Council to such an extent that it commande no support

or respect within Cuba:

For the sake of argument they were willing to concede that the

political advantagee of maintaining the Council for the purpose of forcing

EVES

ONLY

SECRE

NN 55510 DocId:32276732 Page

4

---

## Page 5

ONLY

SECRET

-4-

unity of the various esile groups may well outweigh its other obvious

shortcomings. However, both feel, and Mr., Betancourt was quite

emphatic on this point, that the Council as a body is not capable of

directing clandestine actions against Castro and as a matter of fact

is opposed to any further efforts at overthrowing Castro by sabotage

and other subversive actions since they are completely "sold" on

the thesia that Cästro can only be removed by direct U.S. military

action and therefore a continuation of Guban underground activities

can only result in needless and futile loss of life. In the fact of this

attitude, Ray said he does not expect to receive much encouragement

for his plan from the Council, although he le fairly confident that

Dr, Miro's approval can eventually be obtained.

Mr. Betancourt thought that a workable solution might be found

to their problem if the Council would agree to concern itself exclusively

with (a) the current task of undfying the opposition, and (b) planning for

ite future assumption of power as the provisional government. Under

this arrangement, operatione aimed at the downfall of Castro could be

entrusted to those leaders and groups (such as the MRP, MRR, and

possibly the MDC) which have both the assete and the will to do the

job. Mr. Ray thought that it raight be feasible to create an operatione

planning board or command among the groupe with demonstrated ansete

and thus avoid unnecessary duplication and confusion and make possible

overall planning. It was obvious, however, that he would prefer to act.

autonomously in the execution of bis program.

Ray was, very critical of Artime and claimed he was in possession

of sufficient "facts" to convince bim that Artime, in collusion with ele-

ments of the carps, were planning to eliminate the MRP and its leadere

from the picture, when the invacion succeeded," He said he "knows"

that Artime was being financially supported by wealthy ex- Batistianoe

of the Miami area

133

Ray hinted at various timee that the MRP may at some potat

find itself faced with the necosity of withdrawing from the Council and

going it alone, He says that the Council le composed of "good men! but

they have no ascete or dignificant followings and theve nothing to otter

the people of Cubal and although the proclamation of the Council, ae

finally drafted, wan a good ono the "progresalvel aspecte of the proclame

Ation were forced on the Council by the Americane and do not represent

the true feelings of the majority of the Council membere.

Ho said the

EVES

ONLY

SECRET

HH 55510 DocId:32276732 Page 5

---

## Page 6

EYES ONLY

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

SEGRET

-5-

Cuban people are not likely to want to risk their llves on the basts of

promises made by the present membership of the Council. He feels

that acceptance of the Council would be improved by adding to ita

membership two or three more people whose names would be signi-

ficant and meaningful to the Cuban people. He did not name any

specific candidates.

14. Mr. Ray let me read a 13 or 14 page rep

ort which he had

just received from the MRP coordinator in Cuba

which painted a dreary picture of conditions in Cuba since the fallure

of the invasion; was critical of the inclusion of Batiatianos and "ninoe

bonitos in the invasion force; conveyed the strong feeling that the

Cubane had been betrayed by the Americans, and indicated that while

the MRP organization was still pretty much intact paysically, mozale

was almost completely shattered. Mr. Ray said he would provide me

a sanitized copy (there were some operational and personal details)

of the report for our information.

15. In view of this report from within Guba, Mr. Ray eaid that

he will wish to defer eubmitting his plan for our consideration until

he is able to receive word from Cuba concerning the capabilities,.

willingness and feasibility of carrying out some of the activities he

hag la mind. He said it le useless to submit a program of action it

the human elements to carry it out are lacking or completely demoral-

Ized. He thought he might be ablé to present bie proopectus within

approximately ten daye. He said naturally he will not give the people

Inside any indication that he has been diecussing a plan of action with

16. I urged Ray to consider subroitting at least a proliminary and

admittedly tentative proppectus at tala time based on the ascumption

that hie assets are still intact and will be wiling to cooperate in order

that it may receive early consideration, However,

he stuck to bis

beliet that this would not be practicable and relterated the need for

prior evaluation of the strength and morale of his following.

17. Ray asked concerning the detainees at McAllen, Texas, and

wondered ll they have been released, He was told that as far as 1

know they are still under detention. He said Mr, Goodwin had taken:

theis pames and promised to look into the matter.

Betancourt

E

ILY

SECRETA

HN 55510

DocId: 32276732 Page 6

---

## Page 7

EYES ONLY

SECHET

6 ÷

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

said be would check directly with Mr. Goodwin re their statue.

18. 1 invited Mr. Ray and/or Mr. Betancourt to call me over

the weekend in case either should want to discuss the matter further.

I had the feeling that Mr. Betancourt was personally in favor of sub-

mitting now a plan covering "short terro" needs of their organization

and it may be that such a paper will be submitted after he has an

opportunity to talk with Mr, Ray In private.

JAN /dia

Distribution:

Original & 20 A/DDP/A

1 - C/WHD

1- AC/WH/4 & circulate

1 Manuel Ray 201

EYES ONLY

SECRET

HH 55510 DocId: 32276732 Page 7

---

