# docid-32304511

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/3/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10286-10141

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 162-1287-24, 29, 30

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HUGHES, VINCENT W.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/15/1965

39

JEST, ASSOC, TRA, VISIT, BOOKMAKING A/O GAMBLING

ACT, FINANCES, P/P, REL, IMI, TELCAL, NUMEROUS INTV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 2 RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32304511

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy ASSassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: "11-14-2017

LA 162-170

By letter dated 3/16/65, the St. Louis Office

furnished the following information:

For the information of the Los Angeles Division,

FRANK LEONARD "BUSTER' WORTMAN and his brother, EDWARD

WORTMAN, have operated

the Plaza Amusement Company and the

Rite Way Cigarette Sales Company in St. Louis, MissourI,

for the past several years.

"BUSTER" WORTMAN

is currently a

top hoodlum of the Springfield Division and he resides in a

lavish

residence on the outskirts of Caseyville, Illinois.

EDWARD WORTMAN also lives in the East St. Louis, II1ino1s

area..

Any requests to interview either of the WORTMANS

regarding subject should be directed to the Springfield

Office.

unable to locate any information identifiable with VIRGINIA

or EVA WESTBROOK with the exception that one VIRGINIA

WESTBROOK, age 44 in 1945, address 10317 Lookaway, was

na o, address

arrested on 5/31/45 and on 6/2/45, for careless driving -

speeding and on both occasions was fined $5 and costs.

on 3/5/65, IC R. DOUGLAS KING checked divorce

records in the civil courts Building, st. Louis, Missouri,

ana was unable to locate any information regarding VIRGINIA

Or EVA WESTBROOK.

The Dallas Office furnished the following information

by airtel dated 3/29/65:

on 3/23/65, DI 272-C advised that JOHN ELIYSTONE

Nevada, on 3/10/65, on an

Informant stated that the Dunes Hotel, through

their office in Dallas, had arranged for 50 first class

passenger tickets for

Dallas businessmen for a flight leaving

Dallas on 3/10/05, and returning to Dallas on 3/22/65.

Informant stated that STONE returned to Dallas, Texas,.

on his own on 3/19/65.

Informant advised that STONE had related to him

that while in Las Vegas, Nevada, he had talked to JOHN

RICHARD WESTBROOK of Los Angeles, California, who was also in

-B-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32304511 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 162-170

Informant stated that STONE would be accompanied to Hot

Springs, Arkansas, by his wife, VAL MAE STONE.

Reierenced report or 2/15/05, sets forth lea

for Los Angeles to interview VERLE C. BOWERS.

Interview with BERNESE BROCKMAN BOWERS reported

in the details herein contains information that VERLE BOWERS

is not acquainted with the subject and that toll calls of

subject to telephone listed for VERLE BOWERS were actually

fOr BERNESE BROCKMAN BOWERS, the telephone remaining in her

ex-husband's name. For this reason, the lead to interview

VERLE BOWERS will not be covered by

•the Los Angeles Office.

LEADS

DALLAS DIVISION

AT DALLAS, TEXAS. Cleveland letter to Los Angeles

dated 3/24765, with copy for Dallas, reports interview with

GEORGE A. LAYTON. LAYTON had been interviewed on basis of.

information furnished by Dallas Police Department that SANDY

HAGEN, former girl friend of MICKEY COHEN, stayed in Room

2020 of the Statler Hilton in Dallas on 7/24/61, and that.

this room consisted of

a suite occupied by GEORGE LAYTON of

Cleveland.

LAYTON denied knowing WESTBROOK and stated that

only one of his associates in Dallas does any heavy gambling

throughout the country and that is OWEN GARDNER, who operates

the Texas Alloy Steel Company in Dallas. It appears

conceivable that GARDNER would be betting with WESTBROOK.

Dallas is requested to interview OWEN GARDER,

726 Regal Row, to determine if WESTBROOK known to him and

ascertain complete details regarding his knowledge

of WESTBROOK's bookmaking activities.

SPRINGFIELD DIVISION

section So SEE a on use to

ILLINOIS.

See Administrative

-C-

COVER PAGE

5-81

DocId: 32304511 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 uSc 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

- 1-59)

IFe!

• FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

LOS ANGELES

LOS ANGELES

TITLE OF CASE

JOHN RICHARDWESTBROOK, aka

Dick

DATE

5/13/65

REPORT MADE BY

VINCENT W. HUGHES

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/18 -5/6/65

TYPED BY

AY

IGA

REFERENCE:

Report of SA VINCENT W. HUGHES, dated April 13, 1965,

at Los Angeles.

-P-

ADMINISTRATIVE

DL T-1 is DL 271-C who is an individual who is a close

friend of JOHN ELI STONE, end is acquainted with JOHN RICHARD

WESTBROOK through informant's association with STONE.

It is noted that in report of SA VINCENT W. HUGHES

dated 2/26/65 at Los Angeles, the Los Angeles Division requested

the Dallas Division to interview GAYLORD SHAW who is in business

with BURNETT ESTES at 1407 S. Akard. Inquiry at the business

address determined that Mr. GAYLORD

SHAW has not been associated

not a to ence ince that to the to i a red tory

reveäled that GAYLORD SHAW had an office at the Blanton Towers

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

162-1287-

30

Bureau (162-1287)

1 - Dallas (162-287) (Info):

14 MAY 17 1965

2 - Los Angeles (162-170)

NiA 50

11 55 Uw .82

_COPIES MADE RATE 5-4: 286%

D.JCAKf. REJ StOne

FOR REVIEW AT FBINO AND/OR DELIVERY

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

TO ISC

(SEE

PTA

ONSEQUEST DATED 4-20-78

. 62-117290)

AGENCY_

REQUEST RECD.

CG, AAG, Chiminal Division,

DATE FWD. Room

HOW FWD. .

Organized Crime & Packeteering Section

BY

1/90+ D +0

5/20/b5

4 MAY 2 4 1965

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

16-76324-1

NINE

STAT SECT.

Say....

DocId: 32304511

Page 4

M 038

---

