# docid-32271418

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

2/8/2016

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10142-10114

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 23-12-12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53080 Date:

06-01-2017

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS:

GOODPASTURE, ANNE

PHOTOGRAPHS AND FILMS

OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, TRAVEL, TRIP TO

MEXICO

MEXICO CITY STATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : , NOTES

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/07/1995

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Box 12

I 33080 DocId: 32271418

Page 1

---

## Page 2

WHAT INFORMATION ABOUT LEE HARVEY OSWALD'S STAT

IN MEXICO WAS

KNOWN BY THE CIA MEXICO CITY

STATION PRIOR TO THE ASSASSINAYON ND

WhAt WAS THE SOURCE OF THA

INFORMATION?

In 1963

the Central Artelligence

Agency's Meter City Headquarters surelled

both the Caban and Soreet Embarsies

electronically and photographically. I See greeding

sections entitled soreet Embassy photograghic

crecage, p. i Sorret Embassy electronic

corecage, p. i Cuban Embassy electronic coverage,

i Caban Embassy ghotograghic coverage, p.

The Where City Headquarters made darly

transcuits f the electionic coverage in the

Soviet Embassy. I See preceding section

•)

).

HH 53080 DocId:32271418 Page 2

---

## Page 3

From the Transcripts the Wedeco

City station leaned the frelnoy;

September 27, 1963.

Friday

At = 10:30

a.m

a man palled the

soviet Military. Attache looking for a viss

to Odessa. He was referred to the consutale.

The man there asked for

and was given

directions to the consulates ffice. The conversation

that transpeed was in spanish, meaning that

Oswald could speah spanish. (HSCA

staff summary f Pre-Assarsination Mexico, 3/9/78,

p. 5, CIA no. 319; see also,. Cable from

Wetics City Headquarters to the Drector, 11-23-63,

Mexi 1025, CIA no. 218.)

WH, 53080 DocId:32271418 Page 3

---

## Page 4

at 10:37 a man

called the

soviet Consulate and asked for the Consul.

He was told that the consul was not is.

The man ontoide

steed that it was

necessany for him to get a visa to Odessa.

The was told to pall back at

11:30. This

conversation was also in spanish. (HSCA

staff permany f Pre- Assaisination Mexico,

3/9/18, p. 6, CIA no. 320; See also, Cable frone

Mexico Cly Heatguates to the Dicector, 11/23/43,

Mexi

7025

Sept 28,1963, CiAN.

at 1:25 p.m. a man called the

Consulate and asked for the. Cousul. The

man was told that the consul was not

HH 53080 DocId:32271418 Page 4

---

## Page 5

4)

is. The man outside asked," when

tomorrow?" The freial told him that one

Mondays and Fredays the Consul was in

between. four and five. This conversation

was also in spanish. CHSCA staff summary

8 Pre-Assassinatin Merco, 319/18, p.6, CHA no

319.)

at

approdinately 4:05 p.m Sylvia Ducare

called the soviet Inborsy. She till the

puson at the Embassy that are

Amercas

citizen seeking. a visa is at the Chan

Consulate, bylica explained that the American

citizen wanted. to know the name f the

spical he had dealt with at the

HH 53080 DocId:32271418 Page 5

---

## Page 6

(5

soviet Embassy. Sylics had sent the ameiican

to the soviet Embersy stating. that his

acquiring a Clare wea was contingent on

his previously acquiring a soviet vian. Sylves

explained to the

tic at sorist pical that

The American had stated that fle was

assured that there would he no probler. at

that grent, the soveet Bfecial gut asicher

Officil on the ghone causing Sylves to

regeat the story, The Oficial there ashed

Sylace to leave her rame and number

that he tright tall her later. This

convisation was also is Spanish. (ASCA

steff summary f Pre-Assassication Merict,

HH 53080

DocId:32271418 Page

---

## Page 7

Insert 6-A

3/9/18, pgi6-7, CIA Mos 320-321 ; Cable from

Mexico City to Headquarters to. the Director,

1/23/63, aloney,

Russea

61,1963, EiAnon0y 218-219.99

at 4:26p.n

an unidentified sorret

Consulate fficial called Sylica Delan inquiring

whether the American citizen had been to

the Cabar consulate's ffice. Sylvia responded

afficientily stating that the Amerian was

at the ffice there. The soviet Sficial toll

Sylves that when the American visited the

soviet consulate's ffice he had displayed

papers from the soiret Consulate ire Washugton

The American to wanted to go to the USSR

with his. Pursion jife and remain there

HH 53080 DocId:32271418 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Susent 6-A

He also had a letter plating that

he was a member f are organization

that favored Caba

HH 53080

DocId: 32271418

Page

---

## Page 9

a long time. The soviet fficial had

not received are ansiver from Washingtow

to the American's problem, out wad

amase that the problem traditineally

took four to five months to resolve because

Washington had to secure authorzation from

the USSR. The soviet fficial added-that

the American's iife could get a viss is

Washing tow very quickly and she could have

it pent anywhere but that he feet

that the American would not get a vess.

soon. Sylvca said that the Cabor

goverement prild not give the Amerian a

visa bear he had nite fucido in crea

HH 53080 DocId:32271418 Page 9

---

## Page 10

now authorigation for a visa fume the USSR.

The soreet officiel alded that the soviets

could not give the American a letter f

recommendation because they did not berno

hino.. This conversation was in spanish.

CASCA staff summary I Pre- Assassination

Mexico, 3/9/28, PS. 7-10, CIA Mos. 321-324; See

also Cable from Mexico City Healuarters

to the Drector, "/23/43, Nep 2025, CIA Mos.

2/Ama 30S 2 CIA Transcript from Rossian Embassy, 9-27-63,

On saturday september 28, 1963, Sylvin

Duan called the soirst consulate at

11:51a.m.

stating that there W an Americare setzer at

the finit Emerale who had previely mated

HH 53080 DocId:32271418 Page

10

---

## Page 11

@

the soiret consulate. It smird asho sylica

to wait a minute. Upon his return to

the phone, sylica jut the America. on

the line. at frist the American spoke Russian.

and the soviet spoke English. The conversation

then prouded in Sayid it hintil it

and jut another soviet on the lins. The

soiret sees in luglish he the Americans, hee,

ashod him to speak puisian. The conversation

Nes in pursion at that print, It also

became incoherent and is this quoted in its

enterely.

Russian:

What else do you want?

American: I was Just now at your embassy and they touk my address..

Russian: I Know that.

American: /speaks terrible, hardly recognizable Russian / I did

not know it then. I went to the Caban Embassy to

HH 53080 DocId: 32271418 Page 11

---

## Page 12

10

ask them for my

address, because they have it..

Russian: Why don't you come again and leave your address

with us; it not far from the Cuban Embassy.

American: Well, I'll be there right away.

CHSCA staff summary & Pas- Assassination Merica,

3/9/78, Pgs. 10-12, CIA Mos. 324-326; See also

9/28/13. CiAno. 25

Director, "estos, met tear

On Monday, October 1,1963 at 10:31 a m

a man called the soviet Wiltary attache

and in broken Russian said that he

had visited the consulate the previous

saturday and posher to the consul. The

man wanted to taw if the lates

had received are answer from Washingtow.

at that grent the someet Spical game

HH 53080 DocId: 32271418 Page

12

---

## Page 13

the man dece nuber o the sall him

pall there. CISCA staff sumemany &

Pre-Assassinatión Mesico, 3/9/78, 08:12, CIA No. 326;

See also, Cable from Medico Cly Headuales

to the Directos, "123/43, Mesi 7025, CIAno. 221;

1011/63.

See aleo,. ClA Transcript from Rossian Embassy, 9/z7l6,

C/A no. 33.)

a man, we de it y on as agr

mos calle

consul.

and sprle to OBYEOKOU, (CA Mexico dity

Investigation chronology, WX-7241, Vol. II places

the call at

10:47 although there is no

Ime on the transeigt.) The man introducess

henself as

Se Oswall and states that

he visited the soviet consitale the previnis

HH 53080. DocId: 32271418 Page

13

---

## Page 14

Г. :

12

Saturday and rooke to the consul. Oswald

added that the consul had stated that

they would send a telegram to Washing lou

and he wanted to beaw if they had and

Obeyedkow

answer.

asked O swald to

hold

on a minute while he inquied. When he

answer yet.

byehow the hang up the

prit ther

phone as

O sevald before another pestence

with the words, "and what CHSCA staff

summary f Pre-Arassiatin Medico, 3/9/18, ps 1214).

CIA 10S- 326-328; HOSE pi

HH 53080 DocId: 32271418 Page

14

---

## Page 15

(3)

so see also, CiA transcript

fume Russian Embassy, 10/143, CIA Mo. 24)

On October 3 a mar called the

soviet Wilitary attacke and spoke in

boher spanish and there English, When

he injured. about a visa to Ruisia

he was given the consulate shore number.

so ten the he is they oned mia

at the consulte. The snid see it to was

It not at that a the en? shold case the

CHSCA staff summary of Pre-Assaisinatisi

Mexico, 3/9/78, p. 14; CIA no. 328; See also,

Cable from Wesker City Headgarters to the

Director, "12s143, Mati 7025, CIA no. 222; Sce also, CA

Transcript fum Rucian Embery, 10/3/43, CIA no. 34)

HH 53080 DocId:32271418 Page 15

---

## Page 16

There are three prent

creas in the

liaison wise-toring spection this'

Anne Hardpastone

must be guestined, extensively: a the role of the

case. ffices Shows, Philly's and Wanel; b) the

difference between resumers and trasscipts; and

the delivery procedure f 'pegat tapes particlay

there manded

"Ungent"

Anne to gortner tasting dent the note

f the case ffices in the liaison poise toong

pictim was nit clear in her specutive session

tatemay Exactly what de at a agristiltis

I each oficial must be determined.

When staff orsonnel interred arned

Archart in Were City, he explained that

when the Westcars monitored. the concesalini.

they une write res

oners f the ingutant priversation

tre addition to the resumers, Wh. Archart stated

that the tapes fume the Caban taps and the

spanish language pitines f the tapes from the swiret

taps were transeched. in the base. (See archant interci)

Only the committer was unaware f the bristine

8 resumens when Wis. Harpasture testified tin

Executore Sessim, Thes Who... Sandpasture must

be questined about their existence and where

they

can be located

WH, 53080, DocId: 32271418 Page 16

---

