# docid-32324601

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90030-10056

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 166-4028-4

Released under the John

T. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45874 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 07/14/1969

PAGES: 99

SUBJECTS :

MAURICE MEDLEVINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/13/1998

, OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

NW 45874

4

DocId: 32324601

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LA 166-1875

ADMINISTRATIVE

report.

AUSA NISSEN Is considering calling. a FGJ to hear

testimony in this matter.

In view of the background of the

Individuals involved, AUSA NISSEN feels that more can be

gained through a FGJ probe. AUSA NISSEN has been unable

to proceed with a FGJ because of his heavy work schedule

which already includes several FGJ investigations including

the strton FlI case captioned "JOHN ROSELLI, aka; ET AL,

SCRIBE REPORTING SERVICE, ET AL ITAR: - GAMBLING; 0OJ

CONSPIRACY" Bufile 166-3200.

case is expected on 7/24/69.

CSLA 4659-C advised SA AMEDEE O. RICHARDS, JR.

that on approximately

the 17th or 18th of October he was

registered at the Continental Plaza in Chicago and

that

BENJAMIN DOBSON and TOM SHAHEEN were also registered at

the same hotel. SHAHEEN, according to the informant,

represents the pension fund of the Barber's and Beautician's

Union and had been attempting to negotiate a loan for DALTON

SMITH. The full name of the pension fund which SHAHEEN

represents is the Journeymen Barber's International Pension

Fund.

While at the hotel informant stated. that DALTON

SMITH arrived from New York and advised that FRENCHY

MEDLEVINE and LEO OGUL were coming to Chicago and that they

had made a collection for him in New york.

Source advised that he left Chicago before FRENCHY

MEDLEVINE and LEO arrived there and went to New York with

BENJAMIN DOBSON where they registered at the Regency

While registered

at the Regency Hotel, which informant believes was just

few days prior to Thanksgiving, MEDLEVINE and OGUL came

to the room and in the Presence of SMITH, BUBIS and

DOBSON and himself talked about having made a collection

from EMIL TUCKER

In New. York and indicated that they had

slapped TUCKER around. From what sourcé'éould learn

- B

COVER PAGE

NW 45874 DooId: 32324601 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 166-1875

through the conversation he stated that the apparent object

of their contact with TUCKER was to get back some stock

that DOBSON had given TUCKER for collateral.

Source stated

that he was unable to gain from the conversation whether

or not they had been successful in their purpose.

Later

source stated that he learned from DALTON SMITH that he had

received a telephone call in New Orleans from MEDLEVINE Or

OGUL In which he, SMITH, had been threatened by the caller.

Apparently from what SMITH said, source believed that OGUL

and MEDLEVINE were not satisfied with the money that SMITH

had paid them for their collection on TUCKER.. Source stated

that he did not know the location from which the call to

that he did not know

Source stated that he believed from

his conversation with SMITH that OGUL and MEDLEVINE had

contacted TUCKER a second time to get additional money but

that SMITH had told TUCKER not to give OGUL or MEDLEVINE

any additional money.

LA 5040-C-TE advised 3/24/69, that he had received

a telephone call from LEO OGUL, who is currently out on

bond on a Federal hijacking violation. Informant stated

that oGuL told him that he, oGUL, had some money coming

to him from New York on a bond deal and that his share in

this matter amounted to $12,000.

ocut advised that he wished

to talk to the informant and told him that he would call

him in a day or two.

Informant stated that when he talks

to OGUL, he will get full details concerning this matter

and furnish this information.

LA 5040-C-TE advised on 4/4/69, that he had

received a phone call from LEO OGUL as previously reported

and that he had met with OGUL concerning the bond or stock

deal that oGuL had talked to him about over the telephone.

Informant stated that OGUL advised bim that the stock in

this transaction was worth $100,000. • OGUL advised the

informant that somebody, who he

did not identify, had

brought the stock to him, OGUL, for OGUL to dispose of.

The stock originally belonged to a woman who

died and then it passed to her son who also died and the

affairs of the deceased woman and son were being handled

by the estate.

Whoever obtained this stock apparently

obtained 1t Illegally from the estate as, according to

what OGUL advised the informant, the estate was not aware

of the fact that the stock was missing until some time

after it had been delivered to OGUL and disposed of.

-C-

COVER PAGE

NW 45874 DooId: 32324601 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA 166-1875

Informant stated that OGUL advised him that he had

then contacted a stockbroker in New York by the name of E.

TUCKER who had offices at 36th and Lexingion in New York

City.

TUCKER has business telephone number 532-7983 and

home

Informant stated that

TUCKER, in turn, contacted LOU

telephone number 336-3730 GREENBERG of New York to

dispose of the

stock,

and GREENBERG sold the stock and

gave the money to TuckeR.

Later OGUL stated to the informant that there

was a "rumble on the deal" and the estate of the deceased

woman and son contacted an attorney by the name of JANET

VINCENT in New York who traced the stolen stock.

OGUL,

in turn, contacted a Los Angeles attorney by the name of

AI GREEN, Who, according to OGUi, enliged him $2, 500 as

he, GREEN, was able to

cool the

through the attorney,

JANET VINCENT, in New York.

oGuL stated to the informant that TUCKER owed

him $12,800 as a final payment on OGUL's share of the stock

plus the $2,500 that went to attorney AL GREEN to keep the

deal quiet.

OGUL stated that he went

to New York and

TUCKER did not want to talk to him about the deal.

While

In New York, TUCKER sent two individuals to visit OGUL

to tell him to forget about the deal. OGUL stated that

these individuals were JOE D and ALBIE D who operate a card

GAMBINO), a 'boss

in the ,

OGUL had two

telephone numbers for these individuals, one of which

was

supposed to be a business telephone

and the other a

residence telephone. Informant did not know which number

was for which location, but indicated that the two

numbers

-In New York were 331-8749 and 259-9732.

Informant stated

that OGUL had made previous trips to get money from

TUCKER with FRENCY MEDLEVINE and when OGUL was visited by

the D brothers, mentioned to them his connection with DONJO

MEDLEVINE in Chicago. Informant stated that FRENCHY MEDLEVINE

was very upset about OGUL having mentioned his brother's

name.

Informant stated that when OGUL originally obtained

the $180,000 worth of stock that he took it to New York to

E. TUCKER.

Informant stated that he did not know how OGuL

knew TUCKER or what the

connection between these two Individuals

was.

- D -

COVER PAGE

NW 45874 DooId: 32324601 Page 4

---

## Page 5

LA: 166-1875

Informant stated that OGUL has indicated that he

also expected to have access in the near future to $250,000

worth of stock and wondered if the informant could handle

Informant indicated to OGUL that he might be able

to handle it and for OGUL to show him some of the stock.

Informant stated that he did not know if this stock came

from the same source as the $180,000 worth of stock but

that as soon as oGuL either brought him the stock or

furnished more information concerning it, that he

immediately advise this office.

would

The Chicago Office has advised that according to

CG 7215-C, on 12/9/68, MEDLEVINE and OGUI obtained $184,000

worth of Coca Cola of Los Angeles unlisted stock and through

EMIL TUCKER, a New York promoter, put the stock through an

unknown New York broker and sold it. The person who owned

the stock was deceased and his heirs were unaware that the

stock was missing. The signatures on the stock were forged

because the person owning the stocks was dead.

Information from the New York Telephone Company

was furnished to SA FRANK J. MEYERS by RUDOLPH J. POSCH,

Security Supervisor.

VINCENT JAMES DE CICCO 1s a "member" of the

GAMBINO "family" of ICN.

His wife's name is CHRISTINA DE

CICCO, andhis mother was ELIZABETH (ISABELLA) DE CICCO,

and his brothers

are EDWARD, ALBERT, aka "ALBIE", GEORGE,

and JOSEPH, aka

"BUTTER"

On telephone records obtained as result of a

F'GJ subpoena and reviewed for pertinent calls as set out

in the details are being made part of the Los Angeles file.

LEAD

LOS ANGELES

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA: Will maintain

contact with AUSA NISSEN regarding a FGJ In this matter

and determine logical witnesses to be called before this

FGJ.

C OVER PAGE

NW 45874 DooId: 32324601 Page 5

---

