# docid-32331959

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90100-10177

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 52-72398-163

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/20/1959

2

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

STUART SUTOR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32331959

3

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT-

TO

sets

FROM

Director, FBI (52-72398) confifential

DATE:

5/20/59

SAC, Pittsburgh (52-1687)

CLASSIFIEO AND

EXTENDED

SP. 2

REASO

TAP

-6/4/39

3.

SUBJECT:

STUART

*SUTOR; EL AL

TGP: ITSP; FFA; NM

00 = Cleveland

DATE

DECLASSIFICATION.

Re Pittsburgh airtel to Bureau, 5/7/59.

Enclosed are the original and four copies of a letterhead

memorandum requesting investigation in Montreal, Canada,

concerning two long distance telephone calls to

an unknown

subscriber in Montreal, Canada, from the private business

phone of National Top

Hoodlum SAMUEL MANNARINO. ACH

The source referred to in the enclosed letterhead memorandum

i1s Special

Agent WILLIAM MEREDITH of the Bell Telephone

Company of Pennsylvania

contacted by SA HAROLD L. STEVENS.

The Legat, Ottawa, Canada is requested to ask the ROMP

to interview the

subscriber to Montreal telephone number

VI 9-0260 for the purpose of locating,

identifying and

ultimately interviewing JACK CROSO and "REPE" for details

the long distance telephone calls from the ken Iron and

Steel Company In New Kensington on 10/20/58. HA)

As a matter of information and assistance the Legat, Ottawa

should review letterhead memorandum dated 3/6/59 at Chicago,

I11.,

in the dual captioned cases entitled,

"BERNARD J. EZHAYA,

et al; FRANCESCO. FERRARA - FUGITIVE; WILLIAM W. RABIN, Also

Known As R. We Emerson, W. W. Raybin, INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION

OF STOLEN PROPERTY - MAJOR THEFT;"

"Unknown Subjects; Theft

OPRIATE AGENCIE

OFFICE!

Ontario, Canada, May 3-4, 1958

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF

AND F.

ADVISED

SLIP(S)

STOLEN PROPERTY - MAJOR THEFT.

(lu)

DATE

The above memorandum contains background information indicating

the possibility that National Top Hoodlum SAMUEL MANNARINO,

described by one associate as

104 5d

Bureau (Ine] 5) lee dead beesible source for the stolen

13960/63

kEn

ANEZHOVINE

Pittsburgh

SEN&SOS TEB 2A

05. 10/81

193950.

egat ottere

(SER)

0-7 R/s. for. unfo

5/29/59

HAS: fad consential

7 MAY, 2'7 1959

DocId: 32331959

Page 2

---

