# docid-32404273

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10331-10144

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PROJFILES - CORRESPONDENCE

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collectior

Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:NW 53217 Date: 06-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

J. BARRY HARRELSON

FRED C. WICKHAM JR.

TITLE

MEMO:

JMWAVE HISTORY- ARR REQUEST CIA #7

DATE

02/19/1997

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION

JMWAVE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION :

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

OF LAST REVIEW: 04/29/03

COMMENTS :

JFK-M-16: F6:

2000.02.09.09:06:23:793035

[R]

-----r--

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10331-10144

MH 53217

DocId: 32404273

Page

1

---

## Page 2

v...

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASECINL FULL

2000

C/HRG

19 February 1997

MEMORANDM FOR: Fred C. Wickham, Jr.

DO Focal Point for JFK Board

FROM:

SUBJECT:

J. Barry Harrelson

DCI/CSI /HRG-Senior Review Officer

JMWAVE History -

ARRB Request CIA #7

1. We are now at a crossroads on a number of issues,

including ARRB staff requests to review Agency files and

other materials which were not within the JFK assassination

collection.

A number of these issues have been pending for

over a year.

One such request deals with access to review a

number of CIA histories which might provide further insight

into the assassination or provide leads to information which

would do the same.

specific history which has been

identified as a priority is the JWAVE history. It is our

understanding that the JMWAVE history consists of 32

chapters and that they may not be all together in one volume

(see attached) .

In terms of timing, we need to move quickly

on this to find this history and review it.

Be qua 181316909 460 :

Thank you for your assistance on this. If you have

any questions, please call me (613-1825; 31825) or Gary

J. Barry Harrelson

an.

Attachment

SECRET

HH 53217

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY

WHEN SEPARATED FROM ATTACHMENTS

DocId: 32404273

Page 2

---

## Page 3

-.

...

- SECRET

DCI /CSI/HRG/JBHarrelson: bkh

Distribution:

Orig - Adse w/att

1

- HRG/ARRB #7 w/att

X - C/HRG w/o att

- JBH copy w/o att

1 - GMB copy w/o

att

(2/19/97)

53217

-SECRET

ADMINISTRATIVE- INTERNAL USE ONLY

WHEN SEPARATED

FROM

ATTACHMENTS

DocId: 32404273

Page 3

---

