# docid-32335601

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Fote}.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/19/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

RECORD SERIES:

124-90128-10004

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-139050-5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

NO

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/11/1965

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

CARLOS QUIROGA

ALLEGED TELEVISING OF A CUBAN PROPAGANDA FILM,

"THREE FACES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32335601

• Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 744 050

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mote).

SECRia.

≤

REASON-ICIM

DATE

Optional Form No: 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNHENT

94806

REASONA

REQ. REC'D.

ANS.

JUN 2 8 1965

BY:.

TO:

FROM!

SUBJECT:

WEMORAN DA

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-139050)

DATE: 5/11/65

NIH ORLEANS (105-2414) (P)

ALlEGEd

TELEVISING

FILM

THREE BANK

STATION

CHANNEL, 8

OF A CUBAN PROPAGANDA

TELEVISION

3/8/0.

IS • CUBA

DECLASS / ON: 25X056)

Re New Orleans airtel to Bureau, 4/15/65; Bulet to

New Orleans,

4/29/65, bearing

above caption;

dated 8/26/84, and entitled, "WILLIAM GEORGE MANSCHOT

IEND CITIES

JR., IS • CUBA, " 00 - Chicago,

with letterhead memo enclosure

Legat; Mexico City, letter to

'Bureau,

dated 9/30/64, entitled,

ADT

SLIP(3

DATE

"WILLIAN GEORGE MANSCHOT, JR.,. IS - CUBA."

Enclosed are nine copies

for the Bureau and two copies

each for Chicago, Los Angeles, Hiam,

dated and captioned as above.

Tamps and NO Of & ImM,

The enclosed Lil is being classified "Secret" inas.

as there is quoted therein the full contents of Fo Lin,

dated 8/26/64, and captioned,

"WILLIAM GEORGE MANSCHOT, JR.,

IS - CUBA," which was so classified for the

following reasons

set. forth In re WO letter, dated 8/86/84:

"Enclosed lth is classified "Secret.

highly sensitive nature of the source.

this information

is Later downgraded, it should be classified "Confidential®

Sace It reveals investigative nterest in a diplomatic es

tablishment of a foreign pover

in addition, because un

authorized disclosure of this informatio

could result in the

dentification of & confidential informan

of continuing value

and compromise his fu

are elfectiveness."

— BUREAU

(ENCS ENVEL

EGISTERED

MAIL)

• MIAMI (ENCS. -&)

REGISTERED

MAIL.

• TAIPA

(ENCS. -2)

LOS ANGELES

(REGISTERED

(ENCS. -3)

(REGISTERED

• HEO (ENCS. -2)

(REGISTERED MAIL,

CHICAGO

(ENCS. "2)

(REGISTERED

MAIL

1105-139058-3

2

• NEW ORLEANS 1 YEROX COPIeS ArA

#CD goah

(14)

MAY 1,3 1965

ON/OSI/ACSI, GRiMMiNS-

by routing slip for into.

vud st.

Coondidatoe for Cubar

AffRies StAte DePNAT, INKYBEO,

DocId: 32335601

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO 105-2414

The

informant reierred to in the body

of this Im is WE 1196-S45) NO I-1 IS MEX-180, more details

of which 1s set forth in re Legat;

Hessed, lotter, 4138/8401

LEADS:

TAMPA & MIAMI

DIVISION

The

Tampa and Miami Divisions are referred to page ?

of re Ner Orleans airtel, at the

top of which page it is set

forth that the Cuban refugee who narrates the film,

"Three

Faces of Cuba," allegedly resides in Tamps, Florida. Both

Miami and Tampa should contact appropriate

sources to deter

mine the full identity of the Cuban refugee in the film, "Three

Faces of Cuba," who narrates this film and determine his resi-

dence address in the United States.

11 such & person is identi-

fied as residing in either the Tampa or Miami

ares, the

appropri

ate office should consider opening a separate Registration Act

case on that individual, as it is quite probable

no. is active

on behalf of the CASTRO

Government of Cuba.

Tanpa and Miani should,

throng. sources,

Identify WILLIAN WESTON and also ascertain 11 he

attempt to

18 & resident

of this country.

CHICAGO DIVISION

AT CHICAGO,

ILLINOIS

On the basis of the information furnished by CARLOS

QUIROGA,

as set forth in the body of the enclosed un; Inely,

that WILLIAN MANSCHOT colintorated

with the producer director

of the lilm, "Thre Esces of Cuba," chicago should Indiately

determine whether or not said wILLIAN NAiScHot relerred to in

the body of this IN is identical with

IR., referred to in re wro letter,

WILLIAN

I GEORGE MANSCHOT,

8/26/64. U

If so, Chicago should consider investigation of

WILLIAN GEORGE MANSCHOT,

nina (Chine nice d rigia) relatine

under the caption of latter

to a possible

violation of the Foreign Agents Registration Act.

Since dat&

contained in the enclosed In reveals that the film in question

SLURETE

DocId: 32335601 Page

---

