# docid-32289274

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10201-10050

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-202

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Record=

Collection Act of 1992

144 USc 2107 Notel.

Case#:NH 45679 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/04/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

GAL, BUSS, INVEST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HIT 45679

DocId: 32289274

186

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAY 4

1961

TE

ETYPE

Mir Tomont!

Mr Callahan

Mr. Conrad.

Detoache

Transl

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy-

URGENT 5-4-61

8-30

PM CLM

TO DIRECTOR: 581 192-33821

FROM SAG, CHICAGO 192-373/ 2P

ANTIRACKETEERING

GUSUALEX, AKA, PARO DAILY SUMMARY.

CHICAGO

CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE BASH C ADVISED THAT TONY AND ALEX TORNABENE

Illes

BROTHERS OF LOUISHTORNABENE, YSANTA FE HOTEL, CHICAGO, PAYIONE HUNDRED

TWENTY FINE DOLLARS A WEEK TO BILL KAPLAN FOR HANDYCAPPING SHEETS

ÀS DOES EACH OUTFIT BOOK IN CHICAGO. THE TORNABENE BROTHERS ARE

REPORTED TO BE THE OWNERS OF EDDIE FOY/S LOUNGE,

A STRIP JOINT ON

ALCOHOL TOBACCO T TAX VALIT

SOUTH

WABASH, CHICAGO. AGENTS OF THE AT & TU TREASURY DEPARTMENT

HAVE ADVISED FRAT THEY INTEND IO CONDUCI A SERIES OF RAIDS AGAINSI

OUTFIT OWNED BARS, TAVERNS, AND LOUNGES TO DETERMINE ANY FEDERAL

VIOLATIONS OF LIQUOR LAWS EXISTO ON FIVE THREE LAST AGENT OF ATU

CONDUCTED A SURPRISE RAID ON EDDIE FOY/S LOUNGE AND WHILE ON. THE

PREMISES: THEY DISCOVERED TEN REFILLED WHISKEY BOTTLES. UPON ENTERING

THE STOBEROOM THEY NOTICED SEVERAL FULL CASES OF LHISKEY OF WHICH NO

INVOICE COULD DE PRODUCED BY THE MANAGEMENT. ALL REFILLED.

WHISKEY IN

THE BAR WAS PLACED IN THE STORERO ON THE SE BE AS 54522-202

UNDES A BETENTION WARRANTO IT FALLOREMAIN SCALES UNTIL ZA LOUNGE

OWNER CAN PRODUCE INVOICES SHOWING THEIR LEGAL OWNERSHLP, OF THE

WHISKEY•

A SIMILAR RAID BY AT & TU AT QUEEN/S PARADISE, OPERATED BY

RONALD WAINER. LOCATED

SIMILAR VIOLATIONS. INFORMATION PREVIOUSLY

58

END

PAGE ONE

MAY 151961

NW 45679 DocId: 32289274

Page 2

---

