# docid-32335990

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/10/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90130-10057

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-307344-36

Released under the John

assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 07/28/1960

PAGES:

• SUBJECTS :

FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ TAMAYO

JOSEPH MANUEL PAULA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

'Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

HH 54462

27

DocId: 32335990

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 100-10838

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

1.

Will attempt to identify BEN TUCK and

J. E. FRAME to determine the nature of thetr business

with Paula's Restaurant.

2

Will attempt to locate the personal bank

account for JOSE PAULA.

3 ..

Will check the records of the Curtiss National

Bank, Miami Springs, Florida, to determine the purpose for

which check #380 was deposited in that bank.

4: Will continue to follow and report subject's

activities within the pro-CASTRO field in Miami.

ADMINISTRATIVE

rola report is glassified "SECRET", due to the

sensitive naturekof MM 709-S*)gnd MM 710-s*. 7(S

One copy of this report is being disseminated to

INS, Miami, due to the investigative interest of that office

in subject's activities and associates.

The individual mentioned by MM T-5, from whom

subject requested information regarding the over-throw

of the CASTRO Government, is MARIO REYNALDO MARTINEZ.

B

COVER PAGE

SEGRE

NW 54462 DooId: 32335990

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 100-10838

Sc

meroes attempts to locate JOSE BARRINAT have

been negative, and there is no indication that he is

active in Cuban matters in the Miami area, therefore,

no further attempts will be made to locate him for interview.

Inasmuch as a review of the bank account for

Paula's Restaurant during the past several months has

failed to reveal any pertinent information, monitoring of

this account is being discontinued temporarily and efforts

will be intensified to locate any additional accounts which

PAULA may possess.

The records of the Mercantile National Bank, Miami

Beach, Florida, were reviewed by THEODORE KENZEL, Assistant

Vice President.

The records of the Southern Bell Telephone and

Telegraph Company were checked by ALLEN PANKRANTZ, confidential

source, at West Palm Beach, Florida, and by ROBERT SHEERAN,

at Hollywood, Florida.

INEORMANTS

Identity

MM I-1 18 MM 709-S**

M T-2 16 1 710-SW

MM T-3 is GILBERT BARRERAS,

PSI, who is a purser for

Pan American Airlines

Location of Original Iaformation

134-409 Sub A 8.

COVER PAGE

DucE

NW 54462 DooId: 32335990

• Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 100-10838

MM T-4 18 JOSE DE LA PAL,

100-10838 - 143

Tormer Acting Commercial

Attache for the Cuban

Consulate, Miami.

MM T-5 is MARIO REYNALDO

134-307 Sub A. 24

MARTINEZ, PSI, 9721 Marlin

Road, Miami, Florida

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed in this report and "T"' symbols were utilized only

in those instances where identities must be concealed.

-D*=

COVER PAGE

SECRET

54462

DooId: 32335990

Page 4

---

