# docid-32296356

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10217-10132

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-814

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/23/1964

1

GENEROSA, VINCENT, REL, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32296356

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 14₫ USC 2107

Hoter.

DATE: 71-14-2017

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRIEL

FBI

Date: 10/23/64

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

Mr. Mohn

Dar. Ontosch

Mar.

Casper

Callexhan

Conster

Nor.

Evans

Nir. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Naval

Me. Trotter

Tole. Room

Miss Holies.

Miss Gundy.

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, NEW YORK (92-2300) (P)

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

he Newark airtel, 9/24/042

9/29/64 and New York airtel, 10/13/64.

Bureau letter to New York,

on 10/23/64, NY 4609 PC advised that he recently

learned that VINCENT GENEROSA, aka Jimmy; De Mino, is the most

powerful and least known underworld character in the New Rochelle,

New York area.

He stated that he has three sons, SALVATORE, who

is a member of the New Rochelle City Planning Board, and two

other sons, one named GUS and the other, whom the informant

believes to be named MICKEY. He also has two daughters, but

The informant also advised that VINCENT GENEROSA currently

operates out of a stationery store known as the Lafayette

Stationery, located at the corner of Second Street and Lafayette

Street, New Rochelle, New York.

Informant advised that he considers GENEROSA to be

very powerful, inasmuch as he, informant, recently was in contact

with SABITO MILO and

advised MILO that he might contact GENEROSA

to straighten out a "problem" that he, the informant, had in

New Rochelle.

The informant advised that MILO indicated to him

that if he contacted GENEROSA, he would be contacting an indivi-

dual more powerful than he, MILO, is.

The informant advised that he would be alert for any

@darotons? incarnation. concerning GENEROSA 52go now so 3g

Bureau

Newark (92-722) (Sub C)

S

- New York

YREC-1 92- 60543

MINO.

14

11-92-2057

1-137-10387

let ki

₴ 1564-

ECT: pb

,115/64

14 NOV

C. C. Wick

(8)

Approved:

7 0 NOV 201964

Sent

—_M Per

pecial Agent in Charge

DocId: 32296356

Page 2

---

