# docid-32183577

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-11-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10238-10287

RECORD_SERIES:

BA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 89-30-272.273

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

CARNEY. THOMAS E.

DATE:

12/13/1966

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: JFK, SUSPECT, TILSON, CYNTHIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/28/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

DocId: 32183577 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under thenticherb, Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TILL DIAIIN

INIMINI

Memorandum

TO

SAC (89-30)

FROM :

SA J. STANLEY ROTZ

SUBJECT:

DATE:

12/23/66

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY,

11/22/63, DALLAS, TEXAS

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

870/98

Classified in

9807 Rea/a

SHOND

Baltimore PD on 12/13/66, alleging that CYNTHIA TILSON,

was involved in a conspiracy regarding the assassination.

Sgt. ORR, who had taken the anonymous call, was unable to

determine whether the caller was sane due to the short length

of call.

on 12/15/66, BERNARD J. GRENAGLE, Building Superintendent,

611 Park Avenue, advised that nobody with the name similar to

that of CYNTHIA

TILSON has ever resided at 611 Park Avenue,

which has only been built approximately one year.

With regard

to the name PEACOCK, Mr. GRENAGLE sala tat DONALD R. PEACOCK,

who is a commercial manager at Radio Station WBAL, has a

bachelor apartment at 611 Park Avenue, but does not have

anybody living with him and has never

been seen with a woman

In his apartment.

PEACOCK moved in on 6/1/66.

Mr. GRENAGLE advised that the anonymous call made to the police

sounded like the same type of call he had received on 12/1/66

from a woman who demanded to know who was living with Mr.

PEACOCK.

When he asked her identity, she said she was Mrs.

PEACOCK. He assured her that nobody was living with Mr.

PEACOCK and she became very abusive and threatened to have the

law on him. He retorted that the local police number was

Mulberry 5-1600, that she should go ahead and call the police,

and he would waiting there.

He had mentioned this matter to

PEACOCK and PEACOCK had assured him he had never been married.

Mr. DONALD R. PEACOCK, Director of Advertising and Promotions,

WBAL-TV,

3000 Hooper Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland, advised

on 12/15/60 that he has been living at 611 Park Avenue since

June 1966.

He said he had to have his telephone changed to

an unlisted number, 752-1563, due to a large number of annoy-

JSR: cm

(1)

exs

Co1a.1ng

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Best

(5668 s20/621-15192-554)

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SID/GCL

DODECLASS END: 25%

_Sag/2L/G

gon the Payroll Savings Plan

89-30-273

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kerredy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Ho

DATE:

•11-14-2017

SECREW

BA 89-30

ance calls he began receiving about 9/19/66.. The calls would

come about 3:00 or 4:00 o'clock every morning for about two weeks,

then stopped, but started again about the middle of October

1966.

When he had been in the rental office of his apartment

building on Saturday, 12/3/66, Mrs. SNYDER and the building

aday, 12/3/60, went

superintendent each told him of having received calls from a

woman who insisted that they tell her who Mr. PEACOCK was

living with. He had considered 1t very amusing because he

had never been married and did not know anyone who could be

accusing him of living with a woman at 611 Park Avenue.

When Mr. PEACOCK had returned hom on Monday night, 12/5/66,

he found under his door a telegram.

He had not recognized any

of the names mentioned in the telegram or the name CHARLOTTE,

which was signed to the telegram, so had called Western Union

to find out who had sent the telegram to him.

They had furnished

the name and telephone number of the sender and he had dialed

this number. A man had answered the phone and turned him over to

a woman, who said she was CHARLOTTE's mother.

She asked whether

he was a Senator and how many telegrams he had received from

CHARLOTTE.

She had indicated that CHARLOTTE was in the habit

of sending telegrams and telephoning prominent people with no

provocation.

On 12/16/66, Mr. PEACOCK made available the text of the tele-

gram he had

received and the names

he had received from Western

Union.

The text was:

"CYNTHIA TILTON was other person at

November 22, 1963. Could you possibly

MAC INTYRE. Call me If you can. CHARLOTTE, "stay with ALEXANDER

The telegram was sent by CHARLOTTE STAUBS, 1018 South Clinton

Street, telephone 675-4893, which is subscribed to by JOHN

PATRICK REGAN.

A check of Information previously received by the Baltimore

Division reflects that CHARLOTTE STAUBS has telephoned the

Baltimore Office innumerable times since 1952. has admitted

being confined to Springfield State Mental Hospital, and

has furnished nothing but incoherent and unreal information.

Intormation received from the Washington Field Office reflect:

That on 7/3/62 she /telephoned the Embassy of Laos Swashington

D. C., anot

the name of the Communist leader in the new

government of Laos. She then wrote to him and enclosed

a letter

to CHOU EN-LAI, Pelping, China, In which she stated she was a fs)

-2-

SECREN

DocId: 32183577 Page 3

---

