# docid-32142846

## Page 1

8/26/2014

National Archives and Records Administration

JFK Full Results

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Exit JFK

107 NotE).

Case#: NW

53932

ate: 08-11-2017

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10070-10347

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 44-24016-323

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, AQ

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

: [No Title]

DATE

: 11/26/1963

PAGES

:

2

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS

JR, ASSOC, CONTACT, ADVICE, BKG,

B/E INT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

4

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/11/1996

OPENING CRITERIA

INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Exit JFK

1/1

---

## Page 2

36 4Rev. 12-13-56)

REY 214

Transmit the following

Via

AIRTEL

то:

AIRMAIL.

FBI

Date: 11/26/63

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI

RE :

SAC, ALBUQUERQUE (44-391) (P)

JACK LEON RUBY, aka.:

. LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka. - VICTIM,

Deceased

CIVIL RIGHTS

(00: DL)

ReButel to all SACS, 11/25/63.

Albuquerque teletype to Dallas, same date.

HOODLUM CONNECTION

Enclosed herewith for the Dallas Division are 32 copies

each of three page insert to be inserted in the Administrative

Section of report submitted to the Bureau mentioned in referenced

Bureau teletype dated 11/25/63.

For the information of the Bureau, the same informatión

is furnished in referenced Albuquerque teletype to Dallas,

11/25/63, and contains results of negative contacts with informants

familiar with gambling and hoodlum activities at Albuquerque,

Roswell, Grants and Clovis, N.M. Also for the information of the

Bureau, contact with AQ 204-C revealed that this informant once

met RUBY in an unknown hotel in Dallas, Texas, many years ago,

but was unable to recall any events whatsoever concerning

s this

contact.

12 225

oNt Tufti

REG-114 44-24016-

- 313

AO 195-PC furnished positive information concerning

RUBY by stating he met him at the

on a visit approximately eleven? monthousel club in Dallas, texas,

RUBY was a good friend, of LOU SEBBY,

(3 - Bureau

2 -

2 - Albuguerque

SJC/gap

МО-М: ЄНІВ

3 NOV 29 1905

sir

Approved:*

2 DEC6

1953

Special Agent in Charge

H# 53932 DooId: 32142846

Page 2

"Sent

_ M

Per

---

## Page 3

AQ 44-391

minor gambler. Informant learned through JACK HARDEE, JR.,

latter presently being a fugitive, (Bufile: 88-21156),

that RUBY had a "good in" with the Dallas Police Dept., which

would be borne out from his observation that RUBY had a B-girl

operation where drinks were pushed heavily with no interference

from the police department. AQ 195-PC

had a brief conversation

with RUBY.

On 11/25/63, LOU LEBBY, 722 Sundown Place, SE,

Albuquerque, N.M., who requested his name be kept confidential,

is a previously admitted former bookmaker in Chicago, Ill. He

grew up in Chicago in the same general area as JACK RUBY, known

to him'as SPARKY RUBENSTEIN.. States as a child was not closely

acquainted with RUBY, but knew RUBY's father as the neighborhood

drunk.

JEBBY described RUBYcas emotional,.

unstable and a person

who made his living primarily from "scalping" tickets to sports*

events in Chicago and at one time traveled throughout the:

country selling punch boards prior to the senator KEFAUVER

investigations:

LEBBY described RUBY as an extremely stubborn person

and a publicity hound due to RUBY's emotional instability.

LEBBY did not think it unusual when RUBY was reportedly more up-

set over the death of the President than the death of his own

father. LEBBY said he was surprised. when RUBY actually killed

OSWALD, adding that he would think it more proper that RUBY

would shoot him in the leg with a 22 caliber weapon in order

to get publicity.

LEBBY saw RUBY approximately 14 years ago at Dallas,

Texas, for the first time in more than 20 years. He-knew of

RUBY's presence there and visited him at the Carousel Club

where they talked briefly of old times.

LEBBY knew of no

specific connections of RUBY at Chicago, Illinois, or with the

Dallas Police Dept., and stated that RUBY had no contact with

organized criminal, hoodlum or subversive element. • He did not

know OSWALD and knew of no connection between the two.

÷2*.

NW 53932 . DocId: 32142846 Page. 3

---

