# docid-32307940

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/20/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10293-10298

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2153

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/30/1967

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, KC, TEAMSTER PENSION FUND, CG,

RIVIERA HOTEL, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32307940

Page 1

27

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Gas ler. 7-28-671 %

....

DECODEDÉOPY

EJ CABLEGRAM

XX RADIO

AIRGRAM

R-40

URGENT 8-30-67

TO DIRECTOR

FROM LOS ANGELES

• TELETYPE

Tolson .

DeLoach.

Mohr -

Bishop

Casper

Callah an

Conrad

Felt

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivall

Tavel -

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy =

31

9- Patie

LA COSA NOSTRA, AR.

LA 4476-C-TE ADVISED THAT AL MARSHAL CALLED HIM FROM

THE ESSEX HOUSE, NYC, ROOM 814, ON AUGUST 24 LAST ADVISING

HE COULD NOT MAKE THE CONNECTION IN NYC AND WOULD NOW HAVE

TO GO TO KC WITH JOE LANNI TO SEE NICK CIVELLA AS ORIGINALLY

PLANNED. MARSHAL WILL BE STAYING AT THE CONTINENTAL HOTEL,

KO, MO, THAT SAME NIGHT.

MARSHAL CALLED SOURCE ON AUGUST 25 LAST FROM KG, MO,

ADVISING HE HAD SEEN CIVELLA AND THEY HAVE A TEAMSTER LOAN

IF THE REPRESENTATION OF THE BUYERS FINANCIAL STATEMENT IS

ANYWHERE CLOSE• MARSHAL AND LANNI WERE THEN PROCEEDING TO

DALLAS AND THEN LA TO MEET WITH SOURCE ON AUGUST 27 LAST.

BOTH MET WITH SOURCE ON AUGUST 27 AND 28 LAST AND

DISCUSSED TWENTY FIVE MILLION DOLLAR LOAN FROM THE CG

REC S

92-10593153

OCT 16 1967

530CT24 1967

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32307940 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 Use 2107 lote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

a 4=3 (REV. 7828-67)

DECODED COPY

• AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM &8 RADIO

• TELETYPE

Tolson

DeLoach -

Mohr _

Bishop

Casper

Callah an

Conrad -

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

PAGE TWO FROM LOS ANGELES

TEAMSTER PENSION FUND FOR PURCHASE OF THE RIVIERA HOTEL WITH

TWO HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND TO BE PAID IN CASH TO THE TEAMSTER

OFFICIAL WHO APPROVES THE LOAN. PHIL DAVID PRESENT AT

AUGUST 28 LAST MEETING REPRESENTING PROSPECTIVE BUYERS FROM

TEXAS.

LANNI DEPARTED LA ON AUGUST 28

LAST FOR DALLAS AND THEN

• KG, MO, TO REPORT TO BOTH JOE CIVELLO AND NICK CIVELLA,

RESPECTIVELY. WHEN LOAN APPLICATION FROM BUYER OBTAINED BY

¡SOURCE, LANNI WILL ACT AS GURRIER TO TAKE TO NICK CIVELLA.

SOURCE IS TO BE ADVISED WHEN HE IS TO PROCEED TO CHICAGO TO

ARRANGE THE DETAILS OF THE LOAN.

BUREAU AND INTERESTED OFFICES WILL BE KEPT ADVISED OF

DEVELOPMENTS.

•KANSAS CITY, OMAHA AND PITTSBURGH ADVISED AIR MAIL.

RECEIVED: 3:21 AM (8-39-67) REY

Tre intellite ca cold pree in the abume sale is po be disseminated oulside the Bureau, it is subtested that it be suitably

DocId: 32307940 Page 3

---

