# docid-32313771

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10332-10045

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 2-1622-205

Released under the John

f. kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53130 Date:

06-01-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 08/26/1963

PAGES: 19

SUBJECTS :

SANTIAGO ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

Consulted; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/18/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF USCG

COMMENTS : REFERRED TO USCG, INC LHM

v9.1

HH 53130

DocId: 32313771 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

TOTAL FORM NOTIO

5010-104

UNITED STATES GOV

NMENT

Memoranaum

CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLA

TO

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

DATE:

CIA HAS NO OSJECTION TO

AUG 2 6 1963

DECLAASIF

FRow AND/OR Director, FBI (2-1622)

RELEASE UN CIA INFORMATION

7115181

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

KP 5-18081

W/USAC, Miami (2-156) (RM)

CLASS.

& EXT. BYapaPmur BA iAmS

REASON-FCIM II,

4.2

DATE OF REVIEW

8126/83

ROLANDO ARCADIO MASTERRER ROJAS

HAITIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES

Classmed

SEE REVERSE

SIDE AR

CLASSI

ACT

[CATION

+24845911326

Reference Bureau teletype to Miami 8/16/63

Miami airtels and LMS to Bureau 8/12, I5 andassed te

and Bureau airtel

to Miami 8/20/63.

in it

Declassify ont

Enclosed for the Bureau are 12 copies of LHM;

2 copies for New York and 1 copy for Washington Field for

911 39-6

information purposes.

Copies are being furnished locally to CIA, ONI,

G-2, INS, OSI, Border Patrol, Customs, Coast Guard and

state Department, CoordInator of Suben Affaire:

MM T-1 is MM 635-S.

ADVIS

AND

MM T-2 is

JOSEPH VIDAL,

CIA Covert, Miam

HESTEA

MM T-3 is MM 492-S.

*BECLASIFIED SY 561020 5LD /KSR

Bureau (Encls,

ENS RS 1105-9567 HAT AN EV. ARRESS

New York (105-5503) (RM) (Encls. 2)

-

Washington Field

(105-40360) (RM) - (Encl. 1)

- Miami (2-2-156)

Keypoof

NI CHIA TONG

PRIATE

(1-105-7074 BRIGADE 2506

1-105-1742 ANTT-TIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES)

116.1205

ROUTING

FICES

(1-105-1084 DOMINICAN ACTIVITIES)

(1-134-211-Sub A MM 635-S')

(1-134-44-Sub A MM 492-S.)

* AUG 29 1963

GED: JMS

(14)

¡caretarned by Al

for destruction

Copy to: CIA/State/RAO-15 D

EX-116

CNI/OST/ACSlyeagley/Din

by routing slip for info.

O SEP 1 2 1969-10-63

NADO

SECRET

NW 53130 DocId: 32313771

Page 2

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

AUG * 6 1563

Miami, Florida

SECRET

ROLANDO ARCADIO MASFERRER ROJAS

HAITIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES

INTERNAL SECURITY - HAITI

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE UF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT,

KP 5-18-98

RETTE

WHEt

F. O. :

D473-

1→7

Previous investigation has reflected that

ROLANDO ARCADIO MASFERRER ROJAS, former Cuban Senator,

presently residing in New York City, allegedly had sent

a group of Cuban exiles from the New York area

to Miami,

for the purpose of participating in an invasion of Haiti,

and that, some of these men had reportedly gone down to

the Florida Keys to a camp for training.

Close friends and relatives of MASFERRER, when

interviewed, denied any knowledge of these allegations

and claimed

that MASFERRER had not been in the Miami area,

despite reports to the contrary.

It is to be noted that during the BATISTA regime,

while serving as Senator from Oriente Province, MASFERRER

was the head of a so-called "goon squad" commonly known as

"The Tigers." MASFERRER acquired a reputation of being

ruthless, but was at the same time an enemy of FIDEL

CASTRO.

He is still regarded with considerable fear by

many Cubans, and at the same time he has the staunch

support of his followers.'

He has been excluded from the Miami area and

restricted to the New York area by the Immigration and

SECRET

8/30/94 SPSMA

•JEH OFK

Group 7.

Pause

cluded from automati@massified by

sp5144 дu

downgrading and

Declassify on:

declassification

2113126

VITIAT

"J

per ciA Lette

11a18d

7115181

REASON-FCIM II

DATE OF REVIEW

1-2.4.2

8126183

04 7- 16-98

WW 53130 DoeId:32313771

Page 3

JFK)

---

## Page 4

ROLANDO ARCADIO MASFERRER ROJAS

HAITIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES

INTERNAL SECURITY - HAITI

SE CRIE

the group. She stated

she rented a small runabout motor

boat to the group so they could reach No Name Key with

She advised the group appeared to be

under the direction of OSCAR PINO, who she stated hac

previously been on No Name Key with other Cuban trainees.

Mrs. OETTLE advised that on the morning of August

18, 1963, she had observed LARRY/HOWARD, a Mexican, bring

8 or 9 more Cubans through her fishing camp to No Name

Key. She stated HOWARD was in a 1957 Chevrolet, blue

bottom with white top. She described him as 5'8", 180

pounds, black hair, black mustache, round face... She

stated he departed from No Name. Key and drove off in the

car with two other Cubans on the morning of August 19,

1963.

On August 19, 1963; CPO WALTER PARKER, U.S.

Coast Guard, Marathon, Florida, advised the Coast Guard

had assisted in landing four Customs agents on No Name

Key on the night of August 16, 1963. They located approxi-

mately 16 Cubans dressed in Army fatigues, who claimed to

be members of the 2506th Brigade, recently discharged from

the U.S. Army. The group claimed they were on No Name Key

to take photographs of army maneuvers for propaganda

purposes and to raise funds. They claimed to have the

permission of the owner to occupy the premises and would

remain on the key for 2 or 3 days. A search by the Cus-

toms agents did not reflect any concealed weapons.

PARKER advised the Coast Guard was maintaining

routine patrols in the area and would advise of any unto-

ward activity. He added that the U.S. Coast Guard patrol

planes pass in the vicinity of No Name Key about twice a

day.

SECI

- 4

NW 53130 DooId:32313771 Page 4

---

