# docid-32299717

## Page 1

SECREE

RICHARD CIRAL FRANK

1.

Jack Perry of the London Export Corporation

which supports the expansion of trade with China.

2.

Tang-ling Chao (0781/2494/3564), who at one

time edited the

"Chine

Daily News," and was rogarded by

the Communist Party. USA, as a specialist in Far Eastern

affairs.

he is currently

• the Vice Chairman or the 101vorla1

Board of "China Reconstructs" and a member of

the Chine

Peace

Comnittee

and the

World Peace Congress.

3. Israel Fostela, an editor of "China Reconstructs.")

In April, 1963,

Susan

Frank was reported

to have

been contacted by an individual

• believed to be identical

with Tang-Ming Chao roferred to above.

The purpose of the

contact was to extend an invitation to the subjects to

return to China, and/or to recommend people who would be

willing to travel to and work for Chine.

During September, 1963, the subjects attempted to

contact Poggy Pinckherd, 3

Heathylew, Gordon House Road,

GondoRs

England, with respect to their intended arrival

London.

(5)

A confidential source abrond advized that Pessy

Pinckherd was probably identical with Margaret Mary Joan

Agnes Pinckheard, & fairly long-standing menber of

Communist Party of Britain who visstod communist china

She has been active in the britain-Chlne

Friendship

Association since that tine (5)

In September, 1963, infomation was received

indicating subjects were planning to travel

: to London.

While Suean Frank did not make the

trip, hor busband did

and was apparently in London during the perlod September

23,

1963, to October By 1963.

Richard Irank left Now York City on Way 4, 1964.

Various contidential sources abroad have advised that on

May 5, he transited B12a0,

source ray goss ded at

Italy, arriving in Genevs,

Sultaerland, on May 6, where ho resided at the Hotel Victoria

and the llotel du Jet d'lau until lay 14.

He was in Paris ob

May 17, and returned

to the U. B. via Canada on May 19.

The

sources were unable to report

any significant infornation

regarding hio activitios while abroad. (S)

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SECRET

RICHARD CYRIL FRANK

NOTE:

Memorandum classified "Secret" since it sets forth

data the unauthorized disclosure of which could cause serious

damage to the nationa, detense, and further, it sets forth data

abtained Ison i land i which was so classiried.

see cover setter to legat, tonion, dated 12-5-66.

captioned "Richard Cyril Frank, Susan Heiligman Frank; IS - China"'

prepared by JRW: dnt.

SECRET

---

