# docid-32296698

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10217-10474

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-114543-3RD NR 2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CV

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

10/23/1962

2

JURE, ACA, CUBA, AFFILIATION, US GROUP

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

NW 45825 DocId: 32296698

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-367?Tev. 12-13÷56)

FBI

Date:

10/23/62

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DEr. 'Polson

Mr. Belmont-

Air. Nohr.

Mir. Casper

Mr. Crllahan

hir. Conradi

SIr. D-T.vach

Mr. Even.

NEr. C.l

1. 1 an

pli. Bulrivan.

jir. Tavel

Jr. Trotter

Tale, Room

His alalace =

Miss Candy...

Transmit the following in

Via:

1429

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, CLEVELAND (105-4322)

SCUBAN SITUATION

place-lins

165=114 543 (Jured)

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are the original

and four copies of a letterhead memorandum captioned as

above.

MATION CONTAINED

NED 7211, 326

ALL INFORI

HEREIN IS

DATE 6/26/85

The confidential source mentioned in the enclosed

communication is former PSI [

275z South Main

OTHER

4

Street, Akron, Ohio, who furnished the

e Informati conta

was contacted

on that date

per his specific request.

He is an employee

f the Firestone Iire and Rubber Company, Internatzonai

It should be noted. that i

difficulty expressing himself in the English language

The

Sobtained From

Bureau will note that previous information

was furnished to the Bureau by CV let

dated 12/1/61.

— was residing at 1317

Harmon Avenue, Akron, Ohio.

That information pertained to

" letter he and a friend had received from Cuba,

, containing

message written

in lemon juice to avoid detection by

ORIGINAL FILED IN

Cuban authorities.

This matter will be followed with.

Bureau will be kept advised of all pertinent

and the |

developments.

The enclosed letterhead memorandum is classified

confidential inasmuch as the information thereinray tend to

compronise a source who may prove to be of future value to

che

Bureau.

Bureau (RM) (Enc.

-

15)

105-

1522%

Cleveland

(1 - 134-978)

Ice.

25 1062

105-114512

RGP/Img. 2

ÑOT RECORDED

6.1962

by ro

Darte

Ig sis ior into

172 Ост 30 1962

ENCLOSURE

sent

Approved:

Per

Special Agent in Charge

101-115227

-001

NW 45825 DocId: 32296698

Page 2

---

