# docid-32294564

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10213-10340

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-2173-7031

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NT 53932 Date:

08-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR. FBI

TO: LEG. CAR

TITLE:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 10/10/1976

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT:

CUBANA AIRLINES, BOMBING, MM HERALD, NEWSPAPER, ORGANIZATION,

CONDOR, OBA, CASTRO, FRANK, LEADERS, TERRORIST ACT

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/11/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53932 DocId: 32294564

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PAGE FOUR MM 2-NEW

IM THE ABOVE TELEPHONE CALL, FRANK CASTRO SAID THAT CORU

SHOULD DELAY ANY NEWS RELEASE REGARDING THIS AIRPLANE

INCIDENT, UNTIL THEY ARE ABLE TO DETERMINE PUBLIC REACTION

TO THIS INCIDENT, & (4)

SOUPCE IS PLACED IN A CUBAN ANTI-CASTRO GROUP, AND HE

CONTINUES TO FURNISH VALUABLE INFORMATION. THEREFORE, NO

ACTION SHOULD BE TAKEN WHICH COULD COMPROMISE THIS SOURCE.

*(u)

ADMINISTRATIVE

SOUPCE IS MM 1337-5.

*(4)

AS FURTHER INFORMATION ON THIS MATTER, ON OCTOBER

6, 1976, SOUPCE ADVISED THAT PAFAEL PEPEZ DORESTE TOLD

SOURCE THAT SECUNDINO CARRERA TELEPHONED PEREZ DORESTE ON

OCTOBER 6, 1976, SAYING HE WANTED TO TALX TO THE BOYS IN

MIAMI AND THAT CARRERA WOULD BE FLYING TO MIAMI. IN THE VERY

NEAR

FUTURE. CARPERA ALSO TOLD PEREZ DORESTE THAT OSCAR

ANGULO WILL PROBABLY HAVE TO FLY TO SANTO DOMINGO, DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC, ON SUNDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1976, FOR A TALK WITH FRANK

NW 53932 DooId: 32294564 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE FIVE MM 2-NEW

CASTPO. ] *(n)

PEPEZ DORESTE TOLD SOURCE THAT IN THIS TELEPHONIC

CONVERSATION, CAPPERA ALSO INDICATED. THAT REINOL RODRIGUEZ

PLACED A BOMB AT A TV STATION IN PUERTO RICO A COUPLE OF

DAYS AGO, THIS BOMB WAS PLACED THERE BECAUSE A MOVIE

DOCUMENTARY ABOUT CUBA WAS BEING SHOWN ON THIS TV CHANNEL.

SOUPCE ADVISED THE EVENING OF OCTOBER 6, 1976, THAT

BESO ACOSTA HAD JUST TOLD SOURCE THAT REINOL. RODRIGUEZ HAD

JUST TELEPHONED ACOSTA FROM PUERTO RICO SAYING THAT THEIR

GROUP REFERRING TO COP!, WAS INVOLVED IN THE BOMBING OF THE

CUBANA AIRLINES AIRPLANE WHICH CRASHED SHORTLY AFTER TAKEOFF

FPOM BARBADOS ON OCTOBER S, 1976. RODRIGUEZ TOLD ACOSTA

THAT THEPE SHOULD BE NO PUBLICITY REGARDING THIS BOMB AT THIS

TIME INASMUCH AS THE PEOPLE INVOLVED WEPE "STILL INSIDE".

SOURCE SAID THIS APPARENTLY MEANS THAT THE PEOPLE INVOLVED

IN IHE BOMBING WERE APPARENTLY STILL IN BAPBADOS.

*(4)

SOURCE SAID THAT ON OCTOBER 7, 1975, VARIOUS FLNC

MEMBERS WERE DISCUSSING THIS AIRPLANE CRASH: AND DURING THIS

*(u)

774 53932

DooId: 32294564 Page 3

---

