# docid-32324550

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90030-10005

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 62-75147-26-143

Released under the John

f. Kenned:

Assassination Recorde

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

LA

HQ

DATE:

04/15/1946

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CRIME SURVEY

MAURICE MEDLEVINE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32324550

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

;10 4o 94-250

*SIDNEY FRAZIN:

Los ingeles County Sheriff's Office #A-63354

FRAZIN: is a known bookmaker and has been arrested several times in 1945.

for bookmaking: by the Los Angeles Folice Department.

*TUTTLIAM H.

FREEDMAN

Los Angeles County Sheriff's Office #313278

C.I Loh: 3075/ has advised that FREEDMAN was formerly associated for years

with HArRY und BILL CURLAND, brothers, one whom,

• HARRY CURLAND; is the race track

concessionaire at thé Sonta Anita Race Tracke

Arcadia,

California.

In August,

1945, FREEDMAN was the doorman and the manager of the Cloverdalo Social (gambling)

club,

734 South Cloverdale Avonue, which clus was owned by Rupt GOLDBERG and

MAURICE MEDLEVINE, alias frenchy.

TIM GARRISON, roil name James Albert tarrison

Los Angeles County Sherift's Office #4-3216)

1s" previously mentioned in the sention, entitled "Organized Gangs"

concerning the Kansas City Gang, GARPISON is a bookmaker, operating in the

Horseshoe Cafe, 13828 Ventura Blvd., North Hollywood, and is a, known contadt for:

Kansas City hoodlums in Los Angeles.

#MAURICE COUGAUdT

Los Argelosi Police Department #621,63

Colotos, 3075 advised that GAULT is presently handling all of the book-

making operations in Paramount Motion Picture Studio in Los Angeles and that

everyday: at Noon he appours at instant studio with large sums.of money, amounting

to over 20,000:00 in cash in order to effect the proper pay-offs: CIL.A: 3095

advisod that GAULT originally come from Chicago and knows all of the bigtime

hoodlums from Chicago.

Ho is a personal friend of PRANkIE FROSt, the gamoler in

Reno, Nevadh. This individual is known to frequent Mike Lyman's Restaurant in

Hollywood.

*SAL G. GETTLEANs alias Sam Kettleman

Los Angeles Police Dopartment #59520.

C.I.Lot.

3075 has advised that GETILEMAN is a' former associate of

STANLEY PAGE and is believed to have a considerable amount of money now.

He has

an interest in bar which is located in the vicinity of Eighth Street between

Olive and Hill Streets in'Los Angoles.,

-67-

NW 54462 DooId: 32324550

Page 2

---

