# docid-32309256

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10298-10043

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2824-103, 104, 105

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, DL

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/23/1964

20

JFC, ASSOC, LCN, WHEREABOUTS, INSTR; CRIMINAL ACT,

RES, FISUR, TOLL CALLS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 RPT

v9.1

NW 45754 DocId: 32309256

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-8'8 (ñev.8.1-50)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

"DALLAS

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

JOSEP FRANCIS CAVELLO, aka

DAT*

2/9/65

REPORT MADE BY

SA JOHN B. HOrIS

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/18/64 - 2/3/65

AR

TYPED MY

REFERENCES:

Report of SA IVAN D. LEE, Dallas, 12/15/64.

Los Angeles airtel to Bureau, 1/15/65.

Los Angeles letter to Dallas, 12/21/65.

-P -

LEADS

Unless otherwise specified, all offices receiving leads

will identify subscribers to telephone numbers indicated, conduct

appropriate credit and criminal checks and review office indices

for pertinent information. In addition, appropriate local sources

and informants should be contacted in an effort to determine nature

of subscribers' association with CIVILLO and extent of their involve-

ment, if any, in criminal activities.

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. LO 1-0700 called on 1126/64.

PECIAL AGEN

N CHARG

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

32 Bureau (92/2824)

1- USA, Fort Worth,

2- Chicago (92-351)

2- Houston (94-192)

2- Las Vegas

2- Little Rock

2- New Orleans

(92-40)

3- Dallas (92-36)

Texas

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY..

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. ..

HOW FWD.

°67 FEB 181365

Pept lic/is

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

7242824+10586203

6 FFP 1 5 1965

NOTATIONS

1cc did

NW 45754 DocId: 32309256

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 92-36

of any contacts that he might have with the criminal element

were contacted on the below dates and advised they had no

information which would indicate

that CIVELLO is presently

engaged in criminal activities:

INFORMANTS

DL 181-C-TE

DL 185-C-TE

DL 197-C

DL 140-C

DATES

January 11, 1965

January 12,

1965

January 25,

1965

February 1, 1965

All of the above informants were contacted by

SA'S IVAN D. LEE and ROBERT M. BARRETT.

On 1/13/65, LA 4448-C-TE advised that during a

conversation with NICK LICATA, "Under-Boss" of the Los Angeles

'Brugad" of La Cosa Nostra, LICATA mentioned that FRANK

DESIMONE, "Boss" of the Los

Angeles

"Brugad" represented the

smaller Western "Brugads" before the "Commissione" on

those occasions when a Western U.S. representative was necessary.

After such meetings, according to LiCATA, it was the

responsibility of DESIMONE to relay the instructions of the

"Commissione" to the "Bosses" of other Western "Brugads."

LICATA did not further identify such groups.

He mentioned

that DESIMONE had numerous expenses in connection with these

trips.

He stated that DESIMONE had to go "out east" at

least a half dozen times last year and after such trips, he had

to relay instructions to certain other "Bosses." LICATA did

not further identify such contacts except to mention that

DESIMONE had among other contacts, relayed some "Commissione"

instructions to "the Boss in Texas," on at least one occasion.

(It should be noted that in earlier interviews by Bureau Agents,

CIVELLO hag identified FRANK DESIMONE as his cousin.

Moreover,

both CIVELLO and DESIMONE were attendants at the Appalachin

meeting in Novemker, 1957.) LICATA also mentioned "our group"

in Texas, but did not elaborate further on the matter.

LA 4448-C-TE further advised that DESIMONE was to be

in New York on 1/25/65, to attend a meeting of the "Commissione."

Subsequent to this meeting, he reportedly will relay certain

instructions to "Bosses" of certain other smaller "Brugads."

Periodic surveillances were maintaind by Bureau Agents of

subject's residence at 4908 Gulfstream, Dallas, and the Airway

Liquor Store,

3122 W. Mockingbird Lane, Dallas, on 1/20 - 26/65.

CIVELLO was observed at his residence by SA JOHN B. HOTIS on 1/23

and 25/65; subject was accompanied on both occasions by his

brother-in-law ROSS MUSSO.

- C

--

COVER PAGE

92-2824-1055

NW 45754 DocId: 32309256 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 92-36

On 1/21/65, MRS. VITA MUSSO (protect identity) :

owner of Robinwood Liquor

Store, 2437 Inwood Avenue, Dallas,

advised SA IVAN D. LEE that JOSEPH CIVELLO has borrowed

money from her late husband ROSS in October, 1957; in the

amount, of $1,000, claiming that he would pay it back within

two or

three

weeks.

She stated that her husband passed away

approximately

two weeks later and that CIVELLO waited until

March, 1958, before repaying the loan, at which time he

gave her the money in cash.

(It is noted that CIVELLO

borrowed the money approximately one month prior to his

appearance at the Appalachin meeting in New York which was

held on 11/14/57.) MRS. MUSSO further advised she is

aware of no business connection which may have existed

between her late husband and CIVELLO.

By letter dated 12/23/64, Legat, Rome, advised

the Central Bureau, Criminal Division, Italian National

Police (INP), Rome, Italy, furnished a list of names and

identifying data and requested that they be advised of any

criminal convictions and pending criminal actions against

any of the individuals named.

Included in this list was the

name of JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO. The INP explained that they

presently have all of the individuals named on a watch list

so as to preclude their entrance into Italy and had requested

the above information in order to update their list.

Indices of the Dallas Office reflect the following

information with regard to persons listed as registrants of

vehicles which were observed by Bureau Agents during the

surveillance of CIVELLO's activities:

FRANK LA COKE, a self-employed builder, is a

known close associate of several Dallas Italian hoodlum

figures.

He reportedly built a home in 1955 for PHILIP S.

the estimated value of which was $25,000 (DL 92-331).

on 4/2/63, confidential Source JEROME I. CRÁNE advised that

FRANK LA COKE, along with CIVELLO, PHILIP BOSCO, and others,

attended

the funeral of JOHN MICHAEL CARCELLI,

FBI #4955844, who had committed suicide.

Among the signatures of persons in attendance at

the Rosary of PHILLIP CIVELLO, deceased father of subject,

in Dallas, Texas, on 4/30/59, were those of JO JO LA BARBA

-D -

COVER PAGE

NW 45754 DocId: 32309256

Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERA

SUREAU OF IN

STIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE, OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO aka

DATE

12/15/64

REPORT MADE BY

IVAN D. LEE

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

10/25 - 12/10/64

AR

TYPED BY

rmb

REFERENCES:

Report of SA IVAN D.

LEE at Dallas dated 7/28/64.

Bureau letter to Dallas dated 10/23/64

LEADS

DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEXAS. (1) Will continue to contact

sources and informants acquainted with or familiar with the

activities of subject in an effort to cover his activities.

(2) Will consider interviewing Mrs. ROSS MUSSO

owner of Robinwood Liquor Store, 2734 Inwood Road, in an

effort to ascertain if she possibly has potential as a source

to be used against CIVELLO.

It should be noted this Mrs.

ROSS MUSSO is not related to CIVELLO's brother-in-law,

ROSS MUSSO.)

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Of SIN CHARGENT

Bureau: (92-2824)

1 - USA, Fort Worth

2 - Dallas (92-36)

IMAEZACVINA

2UECIVI

SECEINED

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHE E-PAT, IT

GEE ST

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. -.

HOW FWD. ..

DEl

к 001964.

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

922824-

1104

6 DEC 1'7 1964

REC &

NOTATIONS

S. GOVERMMENT PRIMTINGIOFSI

NW 45754 DocId: 32309256 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DL 92-36

(3)

Will continue to monitor toll calls charged

to telephones available to the subject.

Will attempt to ascertain the sales transactions

for the house sold at 5311 Denton Drive and the house purchased

at 4908 Gulfstream, as mentioned in the details of this report.

ADMINISTRATIVE

As per referenced Bureau letter, Dallas initiated

investigation of CIVELLO in an effort to ascertain his activities

and contacts.

No information has been developed to indicate

that subject is traveling outside of the Dallas area or is

active with the criminal element in the Dallas area.

Spot

surveillances conducted on CIVELLO since 10/25/64 indicate that

CIVELLO spends a considerable amount of time at his residence

and occasionally visits the Airway Liquor Store, 3123 West

Mockingbird Lane, owned by his brother, CHARLES

CIVELLO.

Since referenced report, no information has been

received by other FBI field offices to indicate that CIVELLO

has had

any contact with the criminal element in other divisions.

Spot surveillances were conducted on CIVELLO on the

following dates when he was not observed: 11/5,6,9,13,17,19,

20,25 and 27/64 and 12/1,3 and 4/64. On the above dates,

surveillances were conducted in the

area of CIVELLO's new

residence 4908 Gulstream, with his 1964 F-85 Oldsmobile being

observed parked in the garage; however, CIVELLO was not observed

nor was any information obtained to indicate that he had de-

parted his residence.

The following informants in the Dallas, Texas, area,

who are acquainted with CIVELLO or who are in position to know

of any contacts that he may have with the criminal element,

advised they had no information to indicate that CIVELLO is

active with the criminal element in the Dallas, Texas, area:

DL 181-C-TE

DL 185-C-TE

DL 140-C

DL 170-C

DL 197-C

DL 208-PC

DL 2-C

PCI

PCI

Confidential Source JERRY CRANE

OTHER 4

• B =

Cover Page

908-10013

NW 45754 DocId: 32309256 Page 6

---

## Page 7

DL 92-36

The above informants were contacted by SAs IVAN D.

LEE and ROBERT M. BARRETT.

Surveillances as mentioned in the details of this

report vere conducted by SAs LEE and BARRETT.

The records of the Southwestern Bell Telephone

Company as mentioned in the details of this report were

furnished for review by Mrs. BULA M. SETTLE, Secretary,

office of the Security Supervisor.

INFORMANTS

DL T-I is JERRY CRANE, Crane Funeral Home, who

has requested his identity be protected.

C*

-

Cover Page

NW 45754

DocId: 32309256

Page 7

---

