# docid-32273753

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

9/22/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: NARA

RECORD NUMBER: 181-10002-10141

RECORD SERIES: NL ADMINISTRATIVE FILES [ACCESS AND REFERENCE CASE FILES]

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: NARA

FROM: RHOADS, JAMES B.

TO: LEIGH, MONROE

TITLE:

Released under the Johr

Assassination Recorde

Collection Aet of

1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NIT 54545 Date:

40-12-2017

DATE: 06/25/1975

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ACCESS TO STATE DEPARTMENT MATERIAL FROM

KENNEDY LIBRARY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/16/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Copies of enclosures not attached.

v9.1

1N 54545 Do010: 32273753 Page 1

70

---

## Page 2

JUN 2 5 1975

MT. Monroe Leigh

Legal Adviser

Room 6425

Department of State

Washington, D.C.

20520

Dear Mi. Leigh:

Senator Frank Church, chairman of the Senate Select Conmittee to

Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activi-

ties, has requested the asslatance of the National Archives and

Records Service in obtaining permission for menbere of the Com

mittee staff to exantne naterial which was clasaliled by your

agency and is now among the Presidential papara in the John I.

Kennedy Library.

A list of the files to which the Committee

desires access la enclosed.

Senator Church has designated the following Committee staff

members to review the kennedy Library naterials, and he has

indicated that each currently holds the security clearances

listed:

Peter Fenn, TS/SI/TK/B

Karl &. Inderfurth, TS/SI/CK/B

Alan Rombert, IS/SI/IK/B

Gregory F. Iraverton, IS/SI/K/B

It to the policy of the National Archives to require authori-

sation from the agency that classified the Infornation before

access to classitled matarial among Presidential papere 1s

granted. It is my hope that se the representative of the

Department of State on the Interagency Classification Review

connitree you will absist un in arpediting this matter.

I ai

sending similar letters to the Department of Defense, the

National Security Council, and the Central Intelligence Agency.

NW 54545 DocId: 32273753 Page 2

---

## Page 3

We would appreciate an early determination by your ageney as to

whether to grant access in this instance.

In addition, we welcome

your advice on how to handle any Committee requests for coples

of documents originated by your agency. The Kennedy Library, I

should add, has secure copying facilities.

Should you require further infornation, please contact Dr. Daniel J.

Reed, Assistant Archivist for Prosidential Libraries, 963-6363.

I thank you for your assistance in this matter.

Sincerely,

JAMES B. RHOADS

Archivist of the United States

Enclosures

cc: Official file - NIV

Day file - N

Reading file - NL

Honorable Frank Church

NL: Peterson/sb 6/25/75 x23512

HH 54545

DocId: 32273753

Page

---

