# docid-32301866

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10279-10201

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-94907-12, 10

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased •NU 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/21/1961

PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS :

INTERPEN, REVOLUTIONARY GROUP, GPH, ACA, CUBAN

INVASIONS, BECK, JAMES WILLIAM, ASSOC, CENTRAL

AMERICAN DEMOCRATIC FRONT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO, LHM

v9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32301866

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"NITEDE STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO 944:

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/2D/61

SAC, CHICAGO (105-8235) (C)

SUBJECT:

JAMES WILLIAM BECK, ETAL

CANTRAY, ATRICAN DEMOCRATIC FRONT® (CADE)

IS-NICARAGUA

RA-NICARAGUA

0.0. Chicago

Re WO let to Bureau, 10/31/61, enclosing a lotterhead

menorandu, coptes to Chicago, Miant, Cleveland and Springfield,

where in leads were set out to develop Infornation regarding

Individuals reported to wrO by SAUL, SAGE, akas, Soul

Slegelbaun, to be involved with 1) Ninterpen, a group of

revoluttonardes" organized in Clorida under the leadership of

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, and 2) an alleged plan to effect a

coup dietat la Nicaragua, organized by JOAN SELTZ and JACK

NORDEEN of Chicago.

Regarding Interper", the Miamt Diviston characterIzed

this organization in a report on Anti ridel Castro Activities;

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED* 24,326

IS CUBA" (Buf110 109-584; WrO 105-29955; CC 105-6033), dated

BY Sl6 bracer

August 10, 1961, as a group having in July, 196-, approximately

20 Individuals,

police problem in that they vere being arreated for vagrancy,

drunkeness, and thievery Chicago intervieved on May 29, 1961,

Coone of the members of this group, one RONALD INAUGUSTINOVICH,

who gave a highly improbable account. of

some so eteran elder earn the U.S. Area rorces who tore

training in the swamps: of Florida.

In view of the above, it is felt that the Interpen

organization does not warrant further invest gation. Unless

directed otherwise by the Bureau or the Miami Division, Cleveland

DATE 4/29

Imay discontinue on the lead set out in relet mado

2 Bureau (RM)

Cleveland (RM)

Mani (RM)

Springfield (RM)

y for rey ev at aba

3 14 76

VFO (105-40348) (RM)

TIMG A

Chicago

JACK NORDEEN)

1

105. 8235

1

(JOHN SELTZ)

103-10388 Interpen

22 NOV 24 1961

DEH: jem

( 10)

Deleted Copy Sent.

58 DE

by lotter: 3/4726

149015 Per DOIA: Request

HH

53074

Doc

Id: 3230

1866

Page

---

## Page 3

'CG 105-8235

Regarding the alleged plans of JOHN SELTZ and JACK

NORDEEN of Chicago to organize an attempt to overthrow the

government of Nicaragua, the following observations are

considered pertinent:

selle, age 21, the subject of Bufile 62-105585,

Chicago file 105-8235,

Miami file 2-262, was last interviewe

September 26, 1960, by the Chicago Division.

SELTZ was

determined to be a

headstrong, immature individual of

considerable means who has expressed a desire to "free all

the backward nations of the world".

NORDEEN, age 23, the subject of Bufile 62-105584,

chicago file 2-71, Miami file 2-257, was last interviewec

august 4, 1960, by the Chicago Division. A PSI investigatior

NORDEEN (who had shot and killed his younger

brother in 1956) was considered to be an erratic, unstable

individual "full of fantastic ideas". Upon interview June 4,

1959, NORDEEN told of working with the Castro forces in Cuba

in 1958 and 1959 and then in June, 1959, travelling to

Oklahoma to search for gold.

In view of the above, it is felt that the informa-

tion furnished by SAUL SAGE does not provide sufficient

basis for furtber investigation of SELTZ and NORDEEN.

Accordingly, unless directed otherwise by the Bureau,

Springfield

may discontinue on the lead set out, in relet and

Chicago will conduct no investigation of SELTZ and NORDEEN

at this time.

CV.

Government in the U.Se but accepts any information

volunteered by KANGLES.

Chicago will remain alert to any pertinent

information regarding SELTZ and NORDEEN and their

participation in any activities of interest to this office.

-2-

NW 53074 DooId: 32301866 Page 3

---

## Page 4

OF I'ONAL FORM NO. 10

5080-10.

UNITED STATES GOTERNMENT

Memorarium

TO

FROM

RET

DIRECTOR, FBI (

CONF

iBe

XIAL

SAC, WFO (105-40348) (RUC)

DATE:

Dergith

10/31/61 Jisn

anisera

CC TOEBA.

REQ. REC'D/2.- 30:

DEC 2 8 1964

SUBJECT:

Sp8 mAC/KET AL

JAMES WILLIAM BECK;

ANS.

/ CENTRAL AMERICAN DEMOCRATIC FRONT

(CADE)

7741336

'IS ~ NICARAGUA..

0/24/85

RA - NICARAGUA

CLASSIFIED SY

Classified by

WULTIRESOUALES

(00:CG).

Declassify on PADR TiGeL

DECLASSEY

Transmitted to the Bureau herewith are 3

copies and to MM, CV, CG, and SP two copies each of

& letterhead meno dated and captioned as above c

WF T-l in the enclosed letterhead meme

SAUL SAGE, AKA SAUL SIEGELBAUM,

He was telephonically

referred

to WFO on 10/7/61, by CIA and was interviewed

GENCIES

on the same date at WFO by SAs ERNEST H. BELTER and

GENE L. BURGE®

SAGE claimed he was born 2/22/26 at New York

City and served in the U.S. Navy from December, 1944, to

APPROPRI

AND FIELD

ADVISED EY

SLIP(S)

DATE

July, 1946, as an Electrican's Mate 3/c.

He claims his

parents live on a farm near Egg Harbor, New York, however,

he does not keep in touch with them.

He had in his

possession United States Passport # 132970 issued March

1958,

He was further described as 5' 9g"; 175 pounds,

dark brown curly hair, medium build, tattoo on left and

right forearm, prominent nose, thin mustache with wide

Space in Middle, He claims to have had a high school

education. He speaks Spanish and indicated he held jobs

as cook,

, electrican and photographer.

1-17-98

4S SLOlKSR

(JFK)

WE SHOWN

TO SO

)- Bureau (Enc.

9)

REQ. REC'DONLORRO

DATE FORW. 1R-N0-60

2

- Chicago: (Enc. 2) (RM)

- Cleveland (Enc. 2) (RM)

HOW FORN 0-1423, 0- 14650-1410

Miami (Enc. 2)

(RM)

DECLASSIFIED BY 5248 S6DIKS

Copy

Request

Deleted

by Letter

Per FOIA

Springfield (Enc. 2)

WEQON

(RM) N 3-11-98

(JELL)

INRAM AT

(1 -

105-35237) (Nicaraguan Liberation Movement of

DIA HAS NO OBJECTICINTO

23)

PJ :34

DECLAGSIRCATION AND/OR,

RECA

(12)

CASE OF CIRI FORMATION

9190710

49÷7

мСт - 43

10

9 ENCLOSURF

M THIS DOCUMENTE

DUND

NG NOV 2

1961

Copies

08 DFC 41961

SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR

for revien aL TBIHQ bYADD.

HSC A reg

DISSEMINATION.

3/14/28

SECRET

NAY

SIDET

CLASSIFICATION

AATTON

53074

DосТd: 32301866

Page

---

## Page 5

SECR

ET

WFO 105-40348

who furnished the

JAMES E. BONNER and which was included in CGrep of SA

CHARLES B. WALKER,

dated 9/19/60, entitled "MOV INTENTO

IR A LIBERACION 23rd OF JULY (PRO LIBERATION MOVEMENT 23RD

OF, JULY), aka, IS

- NICARAGUA; RA - NICARAGUA. "

Interview with GERALD PATRICK HEMMING on

7/5/61, was contained in MM letterhead memo of 8/9/61,

in the

case entitled "GEORGE R. DAMON, IS - CUBA; RA -

CUBA®"

WFO indices contain no identifiable information

concerning KARIL JANOUT, A: W. GRISSOM; JULIETA DE AMPIE,

GEORGE TANNER, CARL NOVACK, CARL NOVAK, or Freedom Fighters

of America®

LEADS

MIAMI DIVISION

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will interview GERALD PATRICK HEMMING in an

effort to identify A. W. GRISSOM and NOVACK, first name,

believed to be CARL®

Will also identify CARLOS (LNU) who is employed

in the Pan American Electrical Shop in Miami®

CLEVELAND DIVISION

AT CLEVELAND, OHIO

Will identify KARIL JANOUT, 13802 Melzer Avenue,

Cleveland 20,- Ohio,

and report.any pertinent information

concerning him

SPRINGFIELD DIVISION

AT COOKSVILLE, ILLINOIS

Will identify BOB (LNU) and report pertinent

information concerning his association with NORDEEN and

SELTZ®

-3 -

SECRET

HH

53074 DocId: 32301866 Page 5

---

