# docid-32179674

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10230-10384

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 89-43-6511

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NO

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 04/14/1967

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 62-109060-5061

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

10/29/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE: 02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 54462 DocId: 32179674

Page 1

---

## Page 2

AIRTEL

4/14/67

PLAIN TEXT

AIRMAIL

TO:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (88-69)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

DALLAS, TERAS, 11/22/63

MISCELTANEOUS • INFO CONCERNING

CO: DALLAS

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSICS

DATE 4/2/92 MY 9803 Add

15:17K

Forner NO 1378-C requested that a Special Agent

of this office contact hin at Crleans Parish Prison where

the informant is presently confined following conviction

for simple burglary. It is to be noted that this former

informant has furnished both reliable and unreliable inforna

tion in the past.

He was contacted on 4/18/67 and advised

that seventl weeks ago he talked with BUNDY, who is a fellow

prisoner and le the same person who testified that he daw

CLAY tal pass money to someone on the Lakerzont.

BUNDY

indicated that he had been oftered a deal by District

Attorney N cannison 11 he would testify to a story about

SHAW.

According to this source, this conversation allegedly

place several weeks ago in

parish prizon prior to the

time SUNDY testified. At that time, BINDY was undecided

what course of action he would

pursue, but told the sourse

and others that he would do anything to get out of his

sentence.

BUNDY indicated in so many words without coning

out and stating directly that his testizony was not true

and a story mas given to him to tell.

• Bureau

tina

Dallas (89-43)

2

- New Orleans

89-43-6511

SEARCHED.

.JNDEXE)...

ECH: Jab

(7)

ANA 1 * 1967

NW 54462 DooId: 32179674 Page 2

---

## Page 3

AINTEL

4/14/07

PLAIN TEXT

AIRHANL

TO:

SUBTICT:

DIRECTOR FBI (62-109960)

BAG, NEW ORLEANS (88-69)

ASSASSINATION QU PRASIDENT

JOIN FIIZGERALD KAMIEDY

DALIAS, TEXAS, 11/23/63

MUSCSLLANEOGS • INTO CONCEHNING

00: DALLAS-

ALL INFORMATICH CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

A5:FFK

Forner NO 137S-C requested that a Special Agent

of this office contact bin at Orleans Parish Prison ohere

the intormant is presontly confined folloring conviction

for siuple burglary.

It 18 to bo noted that this former

informant has furnished both rolimble and unreliable informa-

thon in the past.

De vas contneted on 4/23/67 and advised

that several weche ago he talked vith mindy, the is a fallou

prisoner and

is the sane porson the tostalled that he sau

CLAY L. SHAW

pass noney to sonoone on the Iskolzont.

LUNDY

indicated that he had been offored a doal by District

Attorney JIM GARRISCh it he vould testify to a story about

SITAR.

decording to this source, this conversation allegodly

took

place severel necks ago in parish orison peior to the

tino MINDY testifiod. At that time, tokaY was undocided

what course of

aotion ho vould purgue, but told the source

and otbers

to got out of bia

sentence.

out

BUDy indicated in so many words uithout coning

2no

and stating directly

that his testinony vas not true

story was elven

to hin

to telle

= Bureau

Dallas (89-43)

New

Or leane

BCU: Jab

(T)

89-43-6511

SEARCHED.

..INDEXED.

SERIALIZED...

@ Fun.

APR 1 © 1967

FBI - DALLAS

HIH

54462

DooId: 32179674

Page 3

---

