# docid-32989729

## Page 1

File #:

62-116464

Serial Scope:

sub A istne

HH 54982

DocId:32989729 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Mr. I. I. Leavitt

S. F. Phillips

HOUSTUDY

Mr.

A. J. Decker

(Attn: N.

to Balleyl

L.. W. Brady)

6/30/76

- Mr. T. I. Leavitt

-Mr.

F.

Phillips

This memorandum provides for filing of voluminous

• to the House

Since the inception of the HOUSTUDY Project, we have

accumulated 3 thick folders containing newspaper and wire service

clippings plus some additional material such as magazine articles

and other public source data. Material maintained in tickler

folder, Sub A file was never opened.

Retained material is in

general, but not precise chronological order.

With the end of the

HSC mandate, it is believed we should not provide for the final and

permanent retention of this material.

This matter was discussed by writer with Messrs.

P. Lo Bailey and te l. Brady of the Records Management DiviSion

on 6/29/76 and it was

agreed that the most practical manner of

handling would be to file this material as a bulky enclosure

behind file and that no indexing would be necessary. Further,

that the original of this memorandum be filed in the main

HOUSTUDY file, 62-116464, and a copy be filed in Sub A

to 62-116464 which should be opened as a repository of it alone.

The presence of a copy of instant memorandum in the Sub A will

serve as a permanent flag advising where the material is actually

filed.

ACTION: Upon approval, Records Management Division will handle

in accordance with procedures outlined above. The material is

currently maintained in Room 3859 and may be obtained there from

the writer.

T-11134114-1

NOT RECORDED

46 JUL 15 19/6

2011040

1/- 62-116464- Sub 1

SFP:lek

(6)

G7SE0. 28 197629 Page 2

---

