# docid-32275538

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/27/201

AGENCY: ROCKCOM

RECORD NUMBER: 178-10002-10195

RECORD SERIES: ASSASSINATION FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : A-II(B) (1) TRUJILLO I

Document Information

• ORIGINATOR: ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION

FROM: GRAY, MARVIN L.

TO: THE FILE

TITLE: INTERVIEW WITH COLONEL J.C. KING

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/12/1975

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

KING, J.C.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/18/1996

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

Summary of interview.

v9.1

NH 53244

DocId: 32275538

Page 1

123

---

## Page 2

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

.

178-10002-10195

May 12, 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

THE FILE

MARVIN I. GRAY, JR. MY

Interview with Colonel J. C. King

On Wednesday, April 30, 1975 I interviewed Colonel J. C. Kin

at the Commission offices at 712 Jackson Place. Colonel King

served as Chief of the Western Hemisphere Division during the

1960-61 period with which I was concerned.

and living in the Washington suburbs:

neighbors do not know of his background with the Central

Intelligence Agency and that he prefers to maintain his cover.

We agreed not to refer to him by.

name.

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE

Colonel King's recollection of the events surrounding the death

of Generalismo Trujillo was very vague.

King recalled having met

with Trujillo and with his Chief of Intelligence, Johnny Abbes,

with the approval of the American Ambassador in order to establishy

liaison with that service.

He described this meeting

friendly.

Colonel King stated he remembered some talk on the subject of

weapons, but he never saw

any

• weapons and does not recall any

weapons

being sent to the Dominican Republic.

He commented in

response to my statement of facts that three pistols did not

represent very much and stated he did recall CIA objectives to

know what the internal opposition was doing.

FORD LIBPARY

colonel King had no recollection of the meeting at which Assistant

Secretary Rubottom allegedly authorized the provision of sniper

rifles.

He stated, however, that he had the closest relationship

with Mr. Rubttom and met him almost daily. Colonel King

recalled

no flap with the State Department about the provision of weapons

following Generalismo Trujillo's

• death.

After the discussion concerning events in the Dominican Republic

Ileft the interview room and Mr. Belin discussed with Colonel King

some of the events surrounding the alleged attempts on the life

of Fidel Castro.

As I was not present for this portion of

the

interview, I have not described what was said at that time.

;w

UNMARKED

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION-

HH 53244 DocId:32275538 Page 2

---

