# docid-32317792

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10354-10120

RECORD SERIES: NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-793-540

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/05/1963

12

MULTI SUBJECT: SGI, LST, JRO, CM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1A

v9.1

WH 45995

DocId: 32317792 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CG 92-349

LEADS

Information copies are being sent to those

offices who have an interest in either SAM GIANCANA Of 1n

associates of GIANCANA set forth in this report.

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

1. Will continue te

follow and report on ali activities pertaining to SAMUEl

G IANCANA •

2.

Will continue to follow

proceedings in the

United States Court of Appeals concerning appeal regarding

GIANCANA's attempt to gain injunction against the FBI.

3 .

Will maintain liaison with members of United

States Attorney's Organized Crime Division to determine

possibilities of violation of perjury statute arising from

repent court case pressed by GIANÇANA.

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is noted that the investigative period for

this report is in excess of 60 days, however, no report

has been submitted during this period so;that complete results

of suit filed by GIANGANA could be included in this report.

It is further pointed out that the Bureau has been kept

advised on a daily basis of all pertinent activity occurring

in the GIANCANA investigation.

INFORMANTS

Information received fnon CG 6486-C*, CG 6632-C*,

CG 6498-PC, and CG 6576-C* has been paraphrased

to further

protect the

identities of these extremely confidential sources.

Identity of Informant

To Whom Furnished

CG Tel

SA CHARLES DONNELLY 5/24; 6/13/63

OTHER 4

- B -

COVER PAGE

NW 45995 DocId:32317792 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-349

Identity of Informant

CG T-2

GEORGE HURPHY, U.S.Customs,

Miami, Florida

CG T-3

PCT

CG T-4

DAVID W. RUSSELL

(requested)

CG. T-5

CG 6486-C*

CG T-6

tt 6632-C*

CG T-7

SANDY SMITH

Chicago "Sun Times" Reporter

CG T-8

CG 6498-PC-TE

CG T-9

CG 6576-C*

CG T-10

CG 6576=C*

CG T-11

MIKE BUSH, Manager

Mao Kav Radio Service

(requested)

-C .

COVER PAGE

NW 45995 DocId:32317792 Page 3

To Whom Furnished

Miam1 D1v1s10n, 5/27/63

SA CHARLES DONNELLY and SA

PAUL DURKIN 5/24; 6/13/83

SA LARRY PABLE,

Miamt, Division

5/29/63,

SA MARSHALL E. RUTLAND,

7/12-16/63

SA WILLRAM F. ROEMER, JR.

7/16/63

BA J. STERLING ADAMS

Honolulu Division, 6/15/63

OTHER 4

---

