# docid-32303742

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/14/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10284-10254

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-6054-244

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/17/1963

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, TARTAGLIA, EUGENE, ASSOC, CIP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32303742

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-108

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GC

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

DIRECTOR, FBI

I SAC, NEW YORK (92-2702) (C)

DATE:

5/17/63

SUBJECT:

EUGENE TARTAGLIA

AF

100: NEW YORK)

ET AL; AR-CONSPIRACY"

ReBulet 1/28/63, captioned "THE CRIMINAI COMMISSION,

In connection with instructions in relet, investigation

was conducted by the Nyo regarding the subject's possible

membership in the JOSEPH BONANNO

"family" of

"La Causa Nostra". "Wi

PCI JOSEPH VALACHI, On 4/25/63, advised SA JAMES P.

FiNN that he does not know the subject nor could he furnish

any information relative to him.

FD-9 negative as to name received by the NYO on 4/2/63,

from the Identification Division, FBI, Washington, D.C.

The records of the Bureau of Criminal Identification,

NYCPD, were reviewed by SA DAVID G. JENKINS on 2/28/63, and

record for the subject was located.

no

were

The records of the Central Investigations Bureau, NYCPD,

reviewed by SA AUGUST J. MICEK on 3/27/63. No record for

TARTAGLIA was noted.

on 3/1/63, IC JAMES F. AHEARN caused a check to be made

of the Motor Vehicle Bureau records; however, no record was

located.

IC THOMAS D. MULLARKEY, on 2/27/63, reviewed the credit

records of the credit Bureau of Greater New York, and no record

was noted for TARTAGLIA.

DE FIORE.

This record was furnished by PAULINE

2 - Bureau

- New: Yorks (92-638-Sub C)

- New York

(92-2702)

92-6054-244

RES 3

2 MAY 20 1963

1093

NIN

DocId: 32303742 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Note).

¿DATE: 11-14-2017

-..

NY 92-2702

NY 3864-C-TE advised SA BENJAMIN F. GRAVES on

4/17/63, that he did not know the subject.

Review of references on the subject's name and

variations, as well as review of file of persons believed to

be associates of the subject, failed to reflect any additional

information regarding his identity or membership in any organized

Inasmuch as the NYO is unable to place the subject in

"La Causa Nostra"

or any organized criminal element, and also is

unable to fully identify him, this case

is being

closed by the

NYO, UACB.

In the event information is developed through other

investigations which fully identifies TARTAGLIA, this case will

be re-opened in the NYO and investigation will be conducted in

accordance with the Criminal Intelligence Program.

-2-

DocId: 32303742

Page 3

---

