# docid-32586294

## Page 1

FD-263 (Rev. 9-17-f5)..

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

CHANGED

SANTO TRAPFICANTE, JR., aka

Joe Garcia

DATE

10/7/66

REPORT MADE BY

SA JOHN A. AMBLER

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

8/29-10/4/66

AR

I TYPED BY

bbads

/ 0

Title being narked "changed" to reflect allas GARCIA

used by TRAFFICANTE In obtaining air passage fron Mlami, Fla.,

to New York City, New York, during September 1966.

REFERENCES:

CV airtels to Director, dated 9/9 and 23/66

captioned "TECIP";

SL let to TP, dated 9/21/66 (IO);

Ni tels to the Director, dated 9/22-24, 26, 28,

and 29/66, captioned "LCN".

ENCLOSURES:

TO THE BUREAU

Case has been:

Pending over one year

• Yes

→ No; Pending prosecution over six months

SPECIAL AGENT

iN CHARGE

• Yes

_NO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Bureau (92 2781) 144

1

- USA, Tampa

2

- Jacksonville (92-7)

3

Miami (92-88)

(1 - USA, Miani) (Attn:

Mr.

WALLACE JOHNSON, Departnental

Attorney)

2 - New-York (92-846)

2 = Tampa (92-13.

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Rocd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

CC. AAG,

Criminal Division,

Organized Crime and

Linencicering

Section,

LuDw

0C271900

1/24/21

NW 45966 DooId: 32586294 Page 1

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2981-1133

MCT 41

REC 20

112 OCT 13 1966

0X-102

Notations

STAT SE

---

## Page 2

TP 92-1

Pretext used by SA CHARLES M. BLALOCK, Jacksonville,

Fla., when contacting residence of TRAFFICANTE's

son-in-law

RICHARD EDWARD VALDES, On 9/29/66, was a request to talk to

Lt. VALDES.

INFORMANTS:

The following informants were contacted by SA

JOHN A.

AMBLER unless otherwise indicated or where identity

of contacting Agent not known:

TP T-I Is TP 120-C.

TP T-2 1s TP 41-C.

TP. T-3 1s TP

274.

TP T-* IS NY 3508-C-TE.

TP T-5 IS MI. WILLIAM DIAMOND, Executive Assistant

Manager, New York Hilton Hotel, New York City (by request).

TP T∞6 IS NY 3936-C-TE.

TP T-7 IS NY 5642-PC.

TP T-8 IS NY 4857-C-TE.

TP T-9 Is Mrs. GEORGE HUBER,

Miami, Fla. (by re-

quest) contacted by SA WENDELL W. HALI.

TP T-10 is MrS. EMILY CUCCIA, 531 NE 71st Street,

Miami, Fla. (by request) contacted by SA WENDELL W. HALL.

TP T-II IS MATHEW BART, Valet Parking Service,

International Airport Hotel, Miami,' Fla. (by request) Con.

tacted by SA WENDELL W. HALL.

TP T-I2 IS MM 1150-PC contacted by SA WENDELI W.

BALL.

TP T-13 1s CV 421-C-TE.

TP T-14 IS NY 5499-PC.

TP T-15 is PCI SAM MONDELLO.

F

COVER PAGE

HH 45966 DocId: 32586294

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

TP T-16 iS PCI GUILLERIO PORCEL.

TP T-17 is TP 155-R (PROB)

TP T-18 is

ME, ThORAs o. AC kEoN, special Attorney,

• Dopartnent of Justice, Washington, D. C. (by request).

LEADS:

JACKSONVILLE DIVISION

AT JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA

(1)

will contact Mr. BOB HUNDLEY, Southern Bell

T&T Security Division, and obtain listing of telephone

numbers in Florida furnished to HUNDLEY by Queens County

District Attorney.

(2) Will consider interview of RICHARD EDWARD

VALDES, Lleutenant (Dental

corps) , USNAS,

to determine if

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., was in Jacksonville, Fla., anc

how he arrived.

MIAMI DIVISION

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

(1)

Will, at National Air Lines (NAL), contact

Ir. C. R. SANkS, SR., Manager, Auditing and security,

verily that NAL ticket # 283403415 was used on NAL flight

# 2, departing Miami 10:30 a.M., destination New York,

9/21/66.

(2)

Will also request SANKS review NAL flight

# 71 manifest on 9/19/66,

flight departing Tampa, Fla.,

8:50 p.M.,

arriving Miami 9:30 p.l.,

in an effort to

placo TRAFFICANTE on this flight.

If unable to identify

through TRAFFICANTE's know allases, will obtain identity

of all passengers with as much identifying background

date possible

in an effort to eliminate all but

TRAFFICANTE.

Will, at NAL, review flight manifest of

flight

68, 10/2/66, departing Tampa 4:30 p.w., arriving

New York 7:45 p.n., in an attempt to identify TRAFFICANTE

G

COVER PAGE

NW 45966 DooId: 32586294 Page 3

---

