# docid-32134128

## Page 1

Released under the John I Kennedy Assassination Records Colleetzon Act of 1992 (44 U56 2107-Hotehe

DATE: 11-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10047-10346

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-3125

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR. FBI

TO: LEG. OT

TITLE:

DATE: 04/01/1964

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: LHO, POST-RP, TRAVEL, TRIP TO MEXICO 9/26/63

DOCUMENT_TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

02/26/1999

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

06/01/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32134128

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

DATE:

Records Collection Aot, of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

77-14-2017

grewart

Rogat, ottava (268-366) CONXDENTIAL

4- 1-50

DECTASSIF LED BY 9503 CLUSA

05 60/7/23

(305-3

3/25

DIES

LED BABUST OSKALS

I0 - 3 * 0339

ADVISTAR

ROUTINE

assurication

Bourlet 3-11-C; a copy of which is attachod

Infornatios of Dallas.

RMATION CONTAINED

ALL INF

copies of a fellas

EXCEP. WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

subject o

bavlas

• The cover pages shouid be

intozest:

Attached

report

onesitates

Caberney

sago 36 of

thie reposse

data 1s

passport 04-347308

332000. 30

and Caradlan

paosport 06 005-74

as volt

29 8

coleranco

Canadian

auvoatigation

John Mooned

conceraing a

Cerndzon

borde an subes

19530

Ostorno on 10-30-08

Leged

Coress corvice 1n

cranentitins the attached

should potat

(12) (8) 0003

foregolas date spoonzing

page 10 to cu

Alao adulas

301o02at20n

that

dual laontity has baon

Trought

the attention of

in particular, that

Osborno has back do tho U.S.

1914 oncept fos the youra

3O1G through

I9te chich ne

made and has naver bacons

unturnizzoc

citizen.

o laze toonty years.

Oaborne

the creater part of

a Baptist

Weston.

In toxico there ho oscrates

= 001f-020a1z0d Bogtist

dictator®

LAtelony also bo

MARS IS

COMM-FBI

have advicod

U.s. Chief Hostes Lospascos that

Jeborne/ Bacon

tas fuck

receiving contributions lor bin abston in Morico st

address:

thorentter those:

i contribuisons aro

formided

sosen do

Mexico.

UNRECORDED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans -

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel

TE-S APR 161964

Gandy.

MAIL ROOM

5-04

poosability

sus may

oject Caborno/boron: Aron

and bas his fron furthor outry.

Thong is siao a posalbilty

ho mey bs abled

tenze

• Denieo-

Therefercy

ho may have

co rotaru

to Canada

where ho

claims to bo

naturaltaod citizon.

Zine losures

nailon

1 = 64-42137 (Osborne)

Collec

21600 RBe Foreign Liaison Unit (route thru

WDS :mhw (10)

review)

od N

Coelassify

024

3%

TELETYPE UNIT

naDe

15/8.30

DocId: 32134128

Page 2

---

## Page 3

/ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Degnt, Cetaza (102- 300)

106: 3

MCA WARNER BOARD

15 1 4 C731

100-02333

CONFIXENTIAL

A copy of astoched Daltos roport 3-11-06 1s alco

bedos auntated to Fogate

Mexteer

too 36s

of possible secton Wu or the Chio: Postal

Intoruation ta vicy

egataec Osbonas,

on may Case

BelalJaniot 3-11-CS Camoenticing Deltas report 3-17-68

moreta Datina dozed to bo ndvised d1 muditioul threstigation

shouid be condretod to establien Ostormoe petivictos and tove.

Son: Bollas totorsation, the toads

ropert draince cas annasted to the Frocicotiat Comtasion on

3-30-68 mod the Commieston uns neytsed that no titledom

gavestlestion concentre Cataro/Conon menta bo conductod untless

& epoelito roguest mus nocodied from the Contasious

NOTE:

A man named John Bowen sat next to the subject during the

bus trip from Texas to Mexico City on 9-26, 27-63. Bowen has been

identified as Albert Osborne,

born 11-12-88 in Grimsby, England.

He is a self-ordained Baptist minister who runs a mission in Mexico

and appears to be a con man.

He was interviewed in Nashville 3-3-64

at which time he admitted furnishing false info as to his identity

and denied any knowledge of Oswald or being a passenger on the above

We have conducted considerable investigation and have established

that Osborne was sitting next to the subject on the bus on the above-

mentioned trip and to pursue this point further will not furnish us

any additional productive data.

It does not appear that Osborne has

any personal knowledge relating to Oswald or any connection with

Oswald:

His hesitancy and vagueness during interview is atributable

to the fact that he is a con man operating a missionary in Texmelucan

and

is soliciting funds for this missionary under the name of Osborne

and

Bowen a

He recently advised one of the contributors that Bowen

had been his associate in the operation of the mission and had died

and so as fiot to lose money Osborne arranged with banking authorities

been pota

for payments in both the name of Osborne and Bowen.

By letter 3-30-64

we furnished the Commission the copy of the Dallas report and jusy ear

suggested it may desire to subpoena Osborne and place him under oath

in view of the fact that he has continually lied to us.

We also

advised INS and the Chief Postal Inspector by letters 3-30-64 as

indicated in the outgoing Legat, Ottawa, had been requested to obtai

al data available concerning Osborne from RCMP. RCMP had little data

of value and requested additional data

of an identifying nature from

us. There is no further need to continue the Osborne aspect of this

investigation in that we have resolved he has no connection with

Oswald.

CONEXENTAL

DocId: 32134128 Page 3

---

