# docid-32146555

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

var.

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10079-10227

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-109060-2186

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: RCMP

FROM:

[Restricted]

TO:

[Restricted]

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/17/1963

1

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/02/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

19.1

DocId: 32146555

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassinatign Reggrds Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TE. IN DE

TRE COMMISSIONER,

TOP

SECRET

R. 'C. M. POLICE,

OTTAWA

FILE NO. D 911-2-2

• HEADQUARTERS

OTTAWA, 8

CANADA

pecember 17, 1963.

Mr. Tolson.

Mr.

Belmont

Mr. Mohr.

Mr. Carper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Do rach

Mr. Evans

Mr. Gale

Mr. Roser

Mr. Sull

Mr.

• Tav

Mr. Tro

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

TOP SECRET

Dear sir. Innes:

A delicate and reliable source has reported

to us that members of the Cuban diplomatic mission in

Ottawa greeted the news of President KENNEDY's death with

jubilation.

2.

The Cuban Embassy received instructions from

the Cuban Foreign Minister Raul ROA to abide by protocol

rulings in force and to take part in mourning for President

KENNEDY only if official observations of mourning were

decreed by the Canadian Government and the Diplomatic Corps.

Cuban representatives in Canada were also instructed to abide

by the declaration delivered by Cuban Ambassador LECHUGA at

the United Nations, in which he announced that "Cuba had

received the news of the tragic death of President RENNEDY

with profound displeasure".

We are forwarding this for your information.

Please ensure protection for our source.

Yours very truly,

BE DISSEMINATED WITHOUT PRIOR

T IS AOT TI

WE NAMED AS THE BOUNCE

• HOURS IS NOT TO

bEC-C

MI. Moss Lee Innes,

c/o U.S. Embassy,

Assistalt Director

BEG 50

for Director

3 In lllSecurity & Intelligence.

100 Wellington Street,

OTTAWA, Ontario,

COPIES DESTROYERA ENCLOSUT

SF.F

8 4 DEC 2 0 1972

12-19060-215051 1 tea.3

DocId: 32146555

Page 2

---

