# docid-32567998

## Page 1

FREE CHRYN 3-59

FEDERA- BUREAU,

INVEST. JATION

orting Office

Officerot origin

Investigative Period

NEW YORK

NEW YORK

14/20/64

4/7/61- 3/3/64

f Case

Report

made: by

LOUTS HENRY JONES

CONFIDENTIAL JAMES O. INGRAM

Character of Case

REFERRAL DOCUMENT

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEO

FOI/PA # ZL

HEREIN IS UNCLASSITIEN EXCEPT

APPEAL

IS -CUBA

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

CIVI TACT

1. 0. 7l2

5762

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DATE 9/

IN

DE TOATIION ANDISUMMARY

SCIEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

OK unth CiA

REDIBRENCES.

IN THIS DOCUMENT. 5M 6 35 97

3L0/KSR 7-25-97

to mchili

for desser- pe

Papich 5/7/64

50000

ADMINISTRATIVE:

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(J7K

An INS Look Out Notice FD 315

was submitted

regarding subject and his wife on 5/1/63, and the notice

1s outstanding until 5/1/66.

one copy of this report is designated to Ny

file 105-49812, entitled "LENNA SCHWEETZER JONES, IS-

CUBA"

Bufile 105-98176, the wife of subject

It is noted that subject's wifels parents are

MORTON DAVID and ROSE MOSER SCHWELTZER,

entitled MORION DAVID SCHWETTZER, SM-C". BUfile 100-

subjects in cases

Sper

Do not

05-

Typed By:

-bab

IALS PSK

2 Pureau (105 98177) (RM)

3-New York (105-49813)

Declassity on: OADA

169911

N3і є+

Copy to:

ENATE/RAO

OSI/ACSI

Cy routing slip for into.

Date

5/8/64 by 706//ck

G4 MAY 221964..

Pare

REC 45

Ac6: 112

10 APR D3-19G4

PENDIANAN

CrASS 4 DET BYSS

DA

11A

---

## Page 2

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

ANDS

D.

INGRiM

4/20/64

Field Office File #:105-49813

Title:

LOUIS HENRY JONES

SEGRET

UNK

ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

?

„STICE

SEYRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR;

RELEASE OF CIA INFONMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM 6-35-97

Office: New York, New York

Bureau File #: 105-98177

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD JESR

18 7-25-97 (JFK):=

Character:

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Synopsis:

Subject's birth, education, and background Information

set forth.

Informants advised subject and wife left United

States in 1961 for travel to Cuba.

Correspondence received

in United States from subject and

wife In Cuba. JONES filed

application for renewal of passport in 1961 and passport

contained restriction that it was not valid for travel to

Cuba.

Subject was in Moscow, Russia, with group from

Cuba in September, 1963, according to three United States

citizens who talked with him in Moscow.

JONES indicated

he was not a member of the CP but sympathized withaims

and goals of Communist movement.

JONES

In agreement with CASTRO's policies.r

indigated he was

REFERRAL DOCUMENT

--

-P-

FOI/PA # 249

APPEAL #

CIVIL ACT.

2. 0•# 1225L

OR207

¿no a series

DATE 94/84

INITIALS PSE

Excluded

from authomatac

downgrading and

authoric 116-9 758 MILES FA

dedassilication.

Classified by

Declassify on: CADR

249911

ALL INFORMATION CON

HEREIN IS UN

LASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE.

83184

VIA CU

BY SA-AJAMIL

REASON-FOIM

REVINK

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

HIH

45823 DocId: 32567998 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 105-49813

CONFIDENTIAL

414752, New York file 100-114168; "ROSE MOSER SCHWEITZER

aka, SM-C"

, Buffle 100-356402, New York file 100-91040.

A review of the subject's file reveals he has

not been interviewed during this investigation.

AN FD 122 is being submitted as instructed in

Bureau letter 2/17/64, recommending subject be included

in the SI.

As pointed out in Bureau letter, no evidence

has been developed that subject was a member of any

revolutionary group or a leader or organizer of a Pro-

CASTRO organization prior to his departure from the United

States.

However, his actions and statements coupled with

his presence in Cuba qualified him for inclusion in the sI.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY

I-1

CIA,

Washington, D.C.C$(Ul)

NY T-2

CSDE 308-S

NY T-3

Mex 180-S

NY I-4

CSDE 575-S

Elle Where Located

Legat Mexico 105-2228-3

105-2226-5

234-5531-233148 4)

105-2226-5

The following confidential informants advised

that they could furnish no information concerning the

subject:

Source

NY

4116-5

NY 3164-S

Date Contacted

3/4/64

2/27/64

Contacting Agent

JESSE R. HAGY

JOHN EDWARD HEGARTY

- B-

COVER

PAGE

ISEON

CCHFIMENTIAD

REFERRAL DOK

*WENT

FOIXPA #

APPEAL #

CIVIL:A

*

E. 0.

DATB

INITIALS

NW 45823 DooId: 32567998 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 105-49813

Source

NY (3367-S4

2822-S

GLASSIFICATION

CONFIDENTIAL

Date Contacted

2/27/64

2/28/64

3/3/64 mv

2/28/616121021111

2/28/64

Contacting Agent

MAURICE

H. LAUZIERE

C• DALE

VINCENT J. WARGER

FRANCIS

J. OBRIEN

FRANCIS

Jo OBRIEN

This report is being classified "SECRET" since it

contains information from

so classified. *

LEAD

NEW YORK

Will await Bureau decision re FD 122 recommending

subject be placed on sI of the NYO.

COVER FACESCHLING

CONFIDENIAD

3ark-185..

HH 45823

DocId: 32567998

Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-?72 Rev.

3-3-59)

FEDERA- BUREAU OF INVES GATION

Reporting Office

NEW YORK

Title of Caso

Office of Origin

NEW YORK

LOUIS HENRY JONES

Date

Investigative"Period

SEMET

•4/20/64

4-7-61/3-3-64

made by

JAMES 0. INGRAM

Character of Case

REFERENCES:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

IS -CUBA

RELEASE OF CIA INFURMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM 6-25-97

SLD. /KSK

SUMMARY

7-25-97

(JFK)

Bureau letter to New York, 2/17/64

DONE DENTIAL

-P-

REFERRAL

FOL/PA#

APPEAL +

CIVILAC

E.O0

DATE

ADMINISTRATIVE:

An INS Look Out Notice FD 315,

was submitted

regarding subject and his wife on 5/1/63, and

the notice

1s outstanding unt11 5/1/66.

One copy of this report is designated to NY

file 105-49812, entitled

CUBA"

"LENNA SCHWEITZER JONES, IS-

', BUfile 105-98176, the wife of subject.

It is noted that subject's wife's parents are

MORTON DAVID and ROSE MOSER SCHWEITZER,

entitled "MORTON DAVID SCHWEITZER, SM-C"

subjects in cases

, BUfile 100S

Approved

Copies made:

-Bureau (105-98177) (RM)

3-New York (105-49813)

(1-New York

Special Agent

1n Charge.

Do not write in

spaces

CA3116ov v sessips

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X C

GFP)

Classified by

Declassify on: OADR

IPSK

Notations:

- CIA (5)

CLASS & EXT

REASON-SCIM I

DATE DE

REVIE

Y\12

8-45R0

2.4.%

ALE IAFORMATION CONTINNED

NEGEIN

PORE SHOWNOTE SOUSES

SECRET

Typed By!

bab

INITIALS PSKA

NW 45823 DooId: 32567998

Page 5

---

## Page 6

NY 105-49813

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

414752, New York file 100-114168; "ROSE MOSER SCHWEITZER

aka, SM-C"

, BUfile 100-356402, New York file 100-91040.

A review of the subject's file reveals he has

not been interviewed during this investigation.

AN FD 122 is being submitted as instructed in

Bureau letter 2/17/64, recommending subject be included

in the SI.

As pointed out in Bureau letter, no evidence

has been developed that subject was a member of any

revolutionary group or a leader or organizer of a Pro-

CASTRO organization prior to his departure from the United

States.

however, his actions and statements coupled with

his presence in cuna qualifiad him for inclusion in the st.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY

I-1

File Where Located

Legat Mexico 105-2228-3

CIA,

Washington,

D.C.

(4)

NY T-2

105-2226-5

CSDE 308-S

NY. T-3

Mex 180-S

NY T-4

CSDE 575-5

134-5531-137164(4)

105-2226-5

*

The following confidential informants advised

that they could furnish no information concerning the

subject:

Source

NY 4116-S

NY 3164-S

1014

Date Contacted

3/4/64

2/27/64

Contacting Agent

JESSE R. HAGY

JOHN EDWARD HEGARTY

-B-

COVER,

SECRET

AGEN

COAFIDENTIADI

HH 45823 DocId: 32567998 Page 6

---

## Page 7

NY 105-49813

sourced.

NY (3367-SX8

SEVARI

Date Contacted

2/27/64002d

2/28/64

3/3/64"

2/28/64

2/28/64

CONFIDENTIAD

Contacting Agent

MAURICE SCHWANT BRE

DALE SCHWANT

VINERIT JAWARGEF

FRANCIS J. OBRIEN

FRANCIS J. OBRIEN

ESVY 2623-578) (4)

CLASSIFICATION

contains informate a pro i done at 210 a chance te

so classified.

LEAD

NEW YORK

Will await Bureau decision re FD 122 recommending

subject be placed on sI of the NYO

MOTEDI

COVER TEL

SEGRET.

COMFIDENTIA

NH 45823

DocId: 32567998

Page 7

---

## Page 8

NITED STATES GOVERNMENT

* MEMORANDUM

TO:

CONTIDENTIAL

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-98176)

DATE: 7/17/63

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (105-49812)

• (P)

SUBJECT:

LENNA SCHWEITZER JONES

IS- CUBA

110-99

Classified by SPRMAC/EN

Declassily on: DADR(JFK)

(00: NY)

Re Bu airtel, 4/26/63 to NY,

DE, WEO, Boston and Mexico

City, which instructed Detroit to obtain known

samples of writing

of subject, her husband, LOUIS HENRY JONES and BETH MICHELE

WOLLAND for comparison with questioned material obtained by

Michigan State Police®

Re Detroit report of SA MELVILLE H. SHANNON, dated 7/1/63,

which requested NYO to set necessary leads to obtain handwriting

specimens.

Recontact with NY 3164-S.

who had had contact with BETH

MICHELE WOLLAND, confirmed that he is in possession of no specimens

of her handwriting.&

BOSTON:

Boston letter, 6/7/63, under WOLLAND caption furnished

Bureau with 4 page letter to RAY I. MENTZER, JR., last page of

which contained some handwriting.

It 1s assumed this material has been or will be fur-

nished to the laboratory for comparison.

Bureau (105-90176) (RM)

-105-981733 LOUIS HENRY JONES

(BETH VICHELE WOLLAND

1- Boston (105-7773), (Info) (RM)

2- Cleveland (105-25436) (WOLLAND) (RM)

CLASS. & EXT

REASON-TETH

DATE OF REÑIEW 2 -

1-2.4.2

3- Detroit (105-6316) (RM)

(1-105-0317) (LOUIS HENRY JONES,

(1-105-5947 BETH MICHELE WOLLAND

2-

Portland (100-10375) (WOLLAND) (RM)

A! 1

"MIFORMATION CONTAINED

for pries

WYACLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHO

ON OTHERWISE

4- WFO (105-42975) (RM)

(1-105-429743

(LOUIS HENRY JONES,

1-105-41859) (BETH MICHELE WOLLAND'

1- New York

1- New York

(105-48772)

(WOLLAND)

(105-49813)

(LOUIS HENRY JONES)

1- New York

(105-49812)

JMK: keg

(19)

DECLASSIFIED BYS&68- SeDInd

14/97 (THC

105-48177

NOT RECHED

150 JUL 19 1963

ALL INFORINNTIEN CONTANED

WEREN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 7/10/81

NUL Z4 1963

CONKDENTIAL

ORIGINAT, ED

NW 45823 DooId: 32567998

Page 8

---

## Page 9

-59)

FEDERAS

BUREAU

SA

INVEST. JATION

porting office

NEW LONK

o ai Caso

Oilice of Origin.

NEW YORK

Date

LOUIS MARY SONES

4/20/64

Report

made by

CONFIDENMAD.

JAMES 0. INGRAM

Character of Case

Investigative Period

4/7/61-3/3/64

Typed By:

bab

ALL INFORMATION CONTAGE D

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

IS-CUBA

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANUSUMMARY

RELEASE OF CIA IMFORMATION

RELERENCES;

UN THIS DOCUAGENT. IM 6-95-91

SU/NSA 7-25-97

Sureau letter

to new sork, 2/19/64.

REFERRAL DO

CUMENT

FOI/PA # Z498

APPRAL #

•CIVIAUT

E. 0. #12

DATE 9V4/31

OK with CIA

to inchile

info p. 3 ma refo

INFTIALSPSL

fich 5/7161

ADMINE STRATIVE:

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(57K

An INS Look Out Notice FD 315

was submitted

regarding subject and his wife on 5/1/63, and the notice

is outstanding until 5/1/66.

sale 305=39812,

one copy of this report is designated to NY

entirled

CUBA T

LENNA SCHWEITZER JONES, IS-

• SUre 105-98176, the wife of subject.

To is noted that subject's wife's parents are

eXCLALCa MORTON DAVID SCHWEITZER, SM-C"

subjects in cases

o BUfile 100-

Spectal Agent

In

Charge

Do not wilte in spaces

сези (205-08277) (R8)

105

981

(TRE)

REC 45

NED 112,

Declassif on: onoR

H991

138t

COM tO CIAL SANE/RAO

DEA KNO

020

/OSI/AGSI

y routing slap for info.

5/8164

Date.

by 1oBldles

10 APR 232

COWTDBITAN

22.150

998

Page 9

17/5/

---

## Page 10

NY 105-49813

DETAILS:

SECKET

I. PACKGROUND

A. Eirth Data

3021 ColeRAN Ave, CINeNNati, Ohio

6.12-9-99

— The records of the United States Passport Office,

D, Co, were

Alangson Heights

-аз

S, dOBEL and ETHI

JoNes

B.

Kensh10 Sintus

The records show his parents

JONES d

2: 1-9-0220

CiNcInNati, 0hio

The above mentioned records aiso revealed JONES

as a United States citizen. His parents were listed as

Kentucky.

Undted States citizens having been koen in Monticello,

C. Eld

Education

Recoras of Columbia iniversity Teachers College,

New York Clty, as furnished to IC CECRUE P. ULRICH on

JuLy 7, and 19, 1961, by Mrs. ALICE CRADFORD revealed

JONES attended

the Colunbia University Graduate Scheel

Irom february, 1958, to l'ebruary, 1960.

He received

a Master of Arts Degree In February, 1960, and ne majored in

Vocational Counseling.

Prior to 1958, the records show ha received his

Bachelor of Arts Degree in 1956 from the Untversity of

Chicago and previously had aütended Woodward High School

in Cincinnati., Ohio.

a transeript. of JONES

scholastic record had been requesica by the University of

Michigan.

JONES enrolled as a graduate student at the University

of Michigan and attended this school from September, 1960,

to February, 201.

-2-

SEBRET

AHH 15823 DocId:32567998 • Page 10

---

## Page 11

NY 105-49813

SECRET.

D. Marital Statis

The United States Passport Office records

previously mentioned reveals ONES was married to LENNA

SCHVELIZER JONES who was born on April 13, 1935, at

Pacadena, California. He merried her on June 11, 195+.

Emnloyment

On October 2, 1963, Dr. PAUL W. MC LANEEL,

Director, Division of Research,

Atomic Frersy Commission,

Germantown, Marylard, aavised SA C. AlaIN SuAss,

Jo, he

met JONEs in Moscow,

Russia,

on september +, 1953.

ther discussion

Dunt.ng*

JONES advised MC DANTED he was a paychologist

in cuba.

he said. he was toid by dones, he, jones, worked

Ior a 3! year old lady in cuba who was dedizated to the

revolution.

Declass.per ABC letter 125183-819/5 9/11187

E: Residence

DE. MC DANIEL also advised on Coter 2, 1903.

that JONES' current address in Cuba on Sepcember 4, 1903,

II. CONNECTIONS EF SUBTECT

WITH PRO-CASTRO ORGANTZATIONS

AND RTS DEPARTURE FROM THE

UNITED STATES DO CUBA

A.

Travel to Cuba

1.

Association with FATK PRAY FOR CUBA COMMTTEE AND

July ?Sch Movement Groups.

NY I-1, another Government

agency. which conducts

Intelligence investigations, advised on April 7, 1961, C

that LOUIS HENRY JCNES and

nis wife, LINNA SCIWETIZER JONES

described as United States Citizens

from Ann Arbor, Michigan,

were members of a group who desired to go to Cuba from Mextoo. (%)(u)

-3-

SECRET

WW 45823 DocId:32567998 Page 11

---

## Page 12

NY 105-49813

SECRET

left the Central Airport at Mexico D.F., on May 4, 1961,

for Havana, Cuba.

An automobile which was in the

possession of JONES was left on deposit with Mexican

Customs at the Port of Veracruz, Mexico, on May 2, 1961.

JONES' wife, LENNA, departed

JoNEs, in the fall of 1900

known as the Committee for Improved Cuban-American Relations.

The purpose of the organization was to provide guided

tours to Cuba during the Christmas vacation of 1960.

The source said that a Christmas tour of 1960 was

reportedly jointiy sponsored by

• the National FPCC and by

the Cuban Government.

B. Travel Restrictions

On July 21, 1961, IC HUBERT J, O'HARA reviewed

the subject's file at the United States Fassport Office,

United States Department of Süate,

washingion, D.C., and

revealed that on May 26, 1959, JONES filed an application

Ior a passport at New York, New York, Indicating that he

He stated he intended to depart the United States at

New York City on on about August 15, 1959, via "Air-

overseas National Airways."

On May 28, 1959, Passport

Number 1595958 was issued JONES with the restriction

chat it was not valid fur travel to Albania,

Hungary,

and those portions of China, Korea, and Viac Nam under

Conmunist; control. He listed his perinnent residence and

mailing address as 309 West 99th Screet, Newicrk 25, New York.

LOn April 19, 1961

, JONES

filed an application

for renewal of his passport

at Mexico D.f.

This application

failed to indicate any travel plans but indicated ne intended

to return to the United States in one year.

On April 19,

-5-

SECRET

, HH 15823 DocId: 32567998 Paye 12

---

## Page 13

NY 105-49813

SECRET

1951, this passport was

renewed but contained the

restriction that it was

not valid for travel to Albania,

Cuba, and those portions of China, Korea and Viet Nam

under Communist control.

There was no Indication in the file that JONES

requested permission for travel to Cuba.

III. COMMUNICATIONS FROM

SUBJECT

On August, 13, 1962, a cablegram was sent to tha

Department of Justice,

washington, D.C., frcn Havana,

Cuba, stating,

"AMBRICANS IN CURA

ARE. SHOCKED NI THE

INDICIMENT AND CONVICIION OF THE NEGRO NEWSFAPERMAN

WILTIAM WORTHY FOR RETURNING SO HITS ECMELAND WITHCUT

A VALID PASSPORT THES VIOLATES NOT ONIY THE FREEDOM

OF TRAVEL BUI ALSO THE FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE CONSKITUTION

GUARANTEETNG FREEDOM OF PRESS WORTRI HAS BERN SINGLED

OUT FOR PERSECUTION NOT ONLY BECAUSE HE IS AN OUTSPOKEN

JOUNNAGUST ATTEMPIING OBJECTIVE REPORTJNG OF THE CUBAN

PEVOLUTION BUT ALSO BECAUSE HE IS A NECRO IT IS SIGNIFICANT

THAT HIS CONVICTION COINCIDES WITH MASS ARRESTS AND POLICE

BRUTALITI DIRECTED AGAINST NECRO PEOPLE THROUCHOUT THE

USA THE SPIRIT OF THE CONSITIUCION DEMANDS THAT YOU CALL

FOR THE EXONERATION OF WILLIAM WORTHY AND THE REPEAI

OF TIE REGULATION UNDER WHICH HE WAS INDICTED'

Among others, this cahlegram was signed by

LOUIS JONES aNd LENNA JONES.

WILTIAM WORTHY, JR., 1s a reporter for the

"Baltimore-Afro-American"

Newspaper and

was convicted in United States District

Court in Miami, Florida,

11853, United States Code, for having

travelled to Miani, Fioria from Cuba

MD

SECRET

HH 45823 DooId:32567998 Page 13

---

## Page 14

FD-302. (REV. 1-25-60)

DERAL BUREAU OF. INVESTIG

10/9/63

Date

SECRET

Dr. WIlliam A. Wallenmeyer,

Research Division,

Atomic Energy Comnission, Germantow, Maryland, furnished

the following information:

On September 4, 1953, he was In Moscow, Russia,

for a scientific conference.

He attanded the opera that

evening and then returned to the Ukraine Hotel, where he

met Louis Jones through a colleague, Dr. Paul Me. Daniel.

Dr: lic Daniel and Jones were conversing at a table and

Dr. Wallenmeyer joined them for about fifteen or twenty

minutes, during,

the middle part of their conversation.

During this partof the conversation, Jones mentioned

returning to the United States to continue his education.

Also during this time, Dr. Mc Daniel asked Jones if he knew

he was in trouble with the State Department over his travel

to Cuba.

Dr. Wallenmeyer's impression was that Jones

realized that he was, but he seemed to think it couid be

cleared up.

Dr. Wallenmeyer had no information that Jones had

knowledge of United States travel regulations before going to

Cuba.

Also, he did not know how or when Jones went to Cuba.

He thought Jones had a fairly good technical job in Cuba.

He

also thought that Jones said that he (Jones) had no passport.

Dr. Wallenmeyer said he did not pay much attention to Jones'

statements.

Jones impressed him as a person who was not

against what is being done in the United States but who thought

He seemed to

think he was helping the Cubans and was helping himself at

the same time.

He did not talk against the United States,

and even mentioned that he wanted to come back to this country.

At the same time, he was not disillusioned about what was

going on in Cuba.

present when Dr.

Mc Daniel asked Jones if he was amember of

was not overly concerned that he was in trouble over his

travel to Cuba. He said he did not believe that Jones was on

a hate campaign against the United States during the

portion of the conversation he heard.

Mr.

Wallenmeyer is willing to testify to his contact

with Jones in Moscow.

10/2/63

Germantown, Maryland

On

- at

SA C. EDWIN GLASS, JR./sch/bab

by

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclu

of the F

your agency; It and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agen

-10 -

45823 DocId:32567998 Page 14

File #

Date dictated

NY 105-49813

WFO 105-42974

10/8/63

Ferty

of the FBI :and is loaned to

---

## Page 15

. FD-302-(Rev. 1-25-60)

DERAL BUREAU OF. INVESTIG

Date

October 9, 1963

SECRET

Dr. Paul W. Me Daniel, Hirector, Division of Research,

Atomic Energy Commission, Germantown, Maryland, furnished

the

following information:

He was in Moscow during August and September, 1963, for

a scientilic conference.

On September 4, 1963, the night before

ne delt Moscow, he met Louis Henry Jones

in the Ukraine Hotel

in Moscow.

At this hotel one orders coffee at a serving

bar, then

carries it to any available table.

On this occasion

Jones was

occupying a table where Dr. Mc Daniel found an

empty seat.

He described Jones as about 28-30 years old;

slender face, and large prominent mouth.

Jones has a

really

out-going, bubbing personality. He introduced himself and

told Dr.

Mc Daniel that he was an American citizen and lived

in Havana, Cuba.

Dr. Mc Daniel became Interested then and

September 4, 1963.

talked with Jones for about an hour, starting at 11 p.m his

Jones said that he had not finished

education and wanted to return to the United States to do so.

Although Dr. Mc Daniel cannot recall. the verbatim conversation,

there is no question in his nird that Jones was sympathetic

to communism. He asked if Jones was a member of the Communist

Party.

Jones said he was not a member of the Communist Party

but was fully sympathetic with the aims and goals of the communist

movement. This was almost an exact quote of Jones' response,

to Dr. Me Daniel's recollection.

Jones did not say why

he was in Moscow. However,

he was greeted by a number of Spanish speaking people,

mostly women, who treated him with some deference as if he

were a guide of some sors for a tour. this, however, was

only an impression of Dr. Mc Daniel's and he had no conversation

Do un ban

Dr. Mc Daniel did not see Jones'

wife in Moscow and had the impression that she was a psychologist

like him.

Jones said he went to Cuba on vacation about the

time of the revolution in Cuba.

He considers Castro a great

man who has done so much for the Cubans that they can never

On

10/2/63

_ at

Germantown, Maryland

by

SA C. EDWIN GLASS, JR,/ sch/babl

• This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusio

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your

of the

-11-

HH 45823 DoOId:32567998 Page 15

File #

Date dictated

NY 105-49813

WFO 105-42974

10/8/63

property of the FBI :and is loaned to

---

## Page 16

"Si."

NY 105-49813

SE BRET

repay him. Jones described Castro as a humanitarian who

does not like violence. When Dr. Mo Daniel asked him about

the executions by Castro, Jones defended Castro and

explained the executions in this way:

during the revolution

when the citizens of Cuba caught followers of Batista,

Castro told them not to take the law into their own hands

but to let the revolution handle those people.

If Castro

had not done this, thousands would have been killed. Then,

although Castro did not Ilke to do 1t, he had to execute

tra did not 11ke

some to fulfill his promise to the people.

Jones was aware of Dr. Mc Daniel's position with

the United States Covernment.

When asked if he did not

think he was in irouble with the State Department over his

travel. to Cuba, he said he was sure he was.

He said that

he expected

to

have serious trouble, but said this would be

on the conscience of the United States Government and not

on his.

He made several very deicgatory remarks about

the United States Department of State and the United States

Government generally. These remarks alleged that the

United States Government lied about Cuba, and about

atrocities there and took military steps against Cuba.

Jones said that in Cuba, he was working for a lady

about thirty-seven years old. He aid he is a psychologist.

His boss there in Cuba is a fine woman dedicated to the

revolution.

Jones said he found j.t a wonderful opportunity.

He has a free reign to conduct researchse.

Dr. Mc Daniel asked him why so many people left

Cuba. Jones said the Batista Government had a large number

of exploiters.

They knew no other life.

They ran Cuba.

They were intelligent and important. In the new socialist

order they just did not fit and they left.

Jones said

this was for the betterment of the Cuban system.

He expected

the revolution to be a complete success and does not expect

many of these people to ever return to cuba.

-12-

SEC*ET

1H 45823

DocId: 32567998 Page 16

---

## Page 17

NY 105-49813

SECRET

Jones said he does not have a passport. He did

not say how he left the United States or how he traveled

to Cuba, other than to say he went there on a vacation.

Dr. Mc Daniel asked Jones how he explained having

three servants during

this revolution.

He explained the

servants by saying that this was a transition period

in the revolution.

Jones contended that communism in theory is right.

Although Dr. Mc Daniel cannot recall Jones' exact words, he

received the imoression i Jones Michrlooked upon the

revolution in Cuba as the beginning of a great cause.

In Dr. Mc

communism Daniel's opinion, Jones' attitude towara

Is an attitude one would expect him to have

if he had been born in Russia'

and had grown up under

communism.

Dr. Mc Daniel had no information that Jones had

knowledge of United States travel regulations when he

went to Cuba.

Dr. Mc Daniel is willing to appear and testify

to the above information in an administrative or

judicial hearing.

SECRET

HH 45823

DocId: 32567998

Page

17

---

## Page 18

NY 105-49813

SECRET

VI.

DESCRIPTION

The following description of JONES was

obtained from his file at the Passport Oïfice, United

States Department of State on July 21, 1951:

Name

LOUIS HENRY JONES

Race

White

Sex

Male

Nati onality

United States

Date of Birth

March 17, 1934

Place of Birth

Arlington Heights, Ohio

Height

5'9"

Eyes

Erown (wears glasses)

Hatr

Brown

Scars and Marks

None

Occipation

Student

Marital Status

Marrica; wife, LENNA SCHWEITZER

JONES, date of birth April 13,

1935,

Pasadena, California,

whom

he married on June 11, 1954;

she resides with him

Relatives

United States

Address

Foreign Address

(April 1961)

Father GOBEL JONES,

date of birth December 9, 1899,

Monticello, Kentucky, United

States citizen, residing 3027

Cclerain Avenue, Cincinnati 25,

Mother, ETHEL WEST JONES, date of

birth January 9, 1902, Monticello,

sentucky, United states citizen,

residing 117 Calhoun street,

Cincinnati, Ohio.

309 West 99th Street, New York

New York

„nin 29-7, Mexico, D.F.

HN 45823

DocId:32567998 Page 18

-16-

SECRET

---

## Page 19

•'FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UN

ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

STICE

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORAMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM 6-25-97

INGR: M

Office: New York, New York

Title:

4/20/64

Field Office File #105-49813

LOUIS HENRY JONES

DECLASSIFIED BY 5648 310/131

ON 7-25-97 (TER

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Bureau File #:

105-98177

REFERRAL DOCUMENT

FOI/PA # 2499

APPEAL #

Character:

CIVILACT. #

E. 0. # 1235

DATE 9/4/EA

_INTIALS PiK

Synopsis:

Subject's birth, education, and background ihformation

set forth.

Informants advised subject and wife left United

States in

1961 for travel to Cuba.

Correspondence received

In United States from subject and wife in Cuba. JONES filed

application for renewal of passport in 1951 and passport

contained restriction that lt was not valid for travel to

Cuba. Subject was In Moscow, Russia, with group from

Cuba in September, 1963, according to three United States

citizens who talked with him in Moscow.

JONES indicated

he was not a member of the CP but sympathized with aims

and goals of Communist movement.

JONES indicated he was

in agreement with CASIRO's policies.

-P-

Excluded

Crom authoratic

doingradin

and

dedassifIcats

11-16-94

Classified by

MAGEN, GRAS

Declassify on: OADB/31/244

BUA/PSK

- 80 (4)

CLASS. & EXTI

BY 30-13 mlL

ALL INFORMATIAN CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UN

ALASCIGIES EXCEPT

REASCH-FCIM I!

20

,Ob

8112

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

HIH

45823 DooId: 32567998 Page 19

---

## Page 20

NV 105-49913

DETAILS:

I. BACKGROUND

A. Eirth Data

The records of the United States Passport Office,

United States Department of State, Washington: 1.0.,

WErE

reviewed on July 21, 1961, by IC HUBERT J. O'HARA and

revealed LOJIS HENRY JONES was born on March 17, 1934, at

Arlington Heights, Chio. The records show his parents

as GOBEL and ETHEL WEST JONES.

B. Citizenship Status

The above mentioned records aiso revealed JONES

as a Unived suates citizen. His parents were listed as

United states citizens having been born in Monticello,

Kentucky.

C. Education

Records of Columbia University Teachers College,

New York Clty,

as furnished to JC GEORGE P. ULIRICH on

July 7, and 19, 1961, by Mrs. ALICE CRAWFORD revealed

JONES attended

the Columbia University Graduate Schcol

fion february, 1958, to February, 1960.

He receded

a Master of Acts Degree In February, 1960, and he majored In

Vocational Counseling.

Prior to 1958, the records show ha recsived his

Bachelor of Arts Degree in 1956 from the Untversity of

Chicago and previously had attended Woodward ligh School

in Cincinnati, Ohio.

In May, 1950, a sransariot of JONES

scholastic record had been requesica by the University of

Michigan.

JONES enrolled as a graduate student at the University

of Michigan and attended this school from September, 1960,

to February, D01.

-2-

#i:

ITH 15823

DocId: 32567998

Page 20

---

## Page 21

NY 105-49813

D. Marital Status

The United States Passport Office records

previously mentioned reveals JONES was married to IENNA

SORWEIEZER JONES who was born on April 13, 1935, at

rasadena, California. He married her on June 11, 1954.

E..

Emn loyment

n October 2, 1993, DI. PAUL W. MO LANEL.

rector, Division of Research,

Atomic Fnergy Cormission,

therdiscusst.on

HONES advised MC DANTET he was a paycholugst

In Cuba.

He said he was toid by dones, he, congs, workeo

tor a 37 year old lady in Cuba who was dedisated to the

revolution.

Declass. per ABC Letter 1/2803. 3UK/PSK9404

F.

Residence

that JONES' current address in Cube on Soptember

Ave tercera Number 1804 6/18 y 20, Miranar', Havana,

Cuba.

Declass. per Attlettes 1/25/03-1354/05K914184.

II.

CONNECTIONS CE SUBTECT

WITTY PRO-CASTRO ORGANIZATIONS

AND ITS DEPARJURE FROM THE

UNITED STATES PO CURA

A. Travel to Cuba

1.

Associasion with FAIR EINY FOR CUBA COMMITEE AND

July 25ch Movement Grous.

NY T-1, another Governnent

agency which conducts

intelligence investigations,.

that IOUIS HENRY JONES and

SAS VISE, DE dA SOITE TOO JONES

described as United States Citizens

from Ann Arbor, Michigan,

-3-

NW 45823 DocId: 32567998 Page 21

---

## Page 22

NY 105-49813

left the Central Airport at Mexico D.F., on May 4, 1961,

for Havana, Cuba.

An automobile which was in the

possession of JONES was left on deposit with Mexican

customs at the Port of Veracruz, Mexico, on May 2, 1961.

This source also advised that oNes wife, LENnA, departed

for havana on May 1, 1961.4

NY 1-4 advised thalONES, In the fall of 1960,

co-founded an organization at the University of Michigan

known as the Committee for Improved Cuban-American Relations.

not as notatons.

The purpose of the organization was to provide guided

tours to Cuba during the Christmas vacation of 1960.

The sounce said that a Christmas tour of 1950 was

reportedly jointiy sponsored by the National FPCC and by

the Cuban Government.

B. Travel Restrictions

on July 21, 1961, IC HUBERT J, O'HARA reviewed

the subject's file at the United States Fassport Office,

United States Depariment of State, Washingson, D.C., and

revealed that on May 26, 1959, JONES filed an applicatior

for a passport at New York, New York, indicating that he

desired to travel to England, France,

and Italy for a

period of 5 weeks, for the purpose of "study and pleasure."

He stated she intended to depart, the United States at

New rock city on or about August 15, 1959, via "Air-

Overseas National Airways."

On May 28, 1959, Passport

Number 1595958 was Issued JONES with the restriction

that 1t was not valid for travel to Albania, Hungary,

and those portions of China, Korea, and Viet Nam under

Conmunist control. He listed his permanent residence and

mailing address as 309 West 99th Street, NewYerk 25, New York.

On April 19, 1961, JONES filed an application

for renewal of his passport

at. Mexico D.F.

This application

failed to indicate any travel plans but indicated he Intended

to return to the United States in one year.

On April 19,

WW 15823 DocId: 32567998 Page 22

---

## Page 23

NY 105-49813

1951, this passport was

renewed but contained the

restriction that it was not valid for travel to Albania,

Cuba, and those portions of China, Korea and Viet Nam

under Communist control.

There was no indication In the flle that JONES

requested permission for travel to Cuba.

III. COMMUNICATIONS FROM

SUBJECT

On August, 13, 1962, a cablegram was sent to the

Department of Justice,

Washington, D,C., fron Havana,

Cuba, staving,

"AMERICANS IN CUPA

ARE SHOCKED AT THE

INDUCTMENT AND CONVITION OF TRE NECHO NEWSPAPERMAN

WILLIAM WORTHY FOR RETURNING I90 HIS HOMELAND WITHOUT

A VAIID PASSPORT THIS VIOLATES NOI ONLY THE FREEDOM

OF TRAVEL BUT ALSO THE FIRST ANIMENE TO THE CONSCITUTION

GUARANTEETNG FREEDOM OF PRESS WORTHL FAS BEN SINGLED

OUT FOR PERSECUTION NOT ONLY BECAUSE BE US AN OUTSPOKEN

TCURNAGEST ATTEMPIING OBJECTIVE REPORTING CP THE CUBAN

PEVOLUTION BUT ALSO BECAUSE HE IS A NEGRO IT IS SIGNEFICANT

THAT HIS CONVICTION COINCIDES WITH MASS ARRESTS AND POLICE

BEATALITI DIRECTED AGAINST NEGRO PEOPLE THROUGHOUT THE

USA THE SPIRIT OF THE CONSTITUDION DEMANDS THAT YOU CALL

FOR THE EXONERATION OF WILLIAM WORTHY AND THE REPEAL

OF THE REGULATICN UNDER WHICH HE WAS INDICTED"

Among others, this cablegram was signed by

LOUIS JONES and LENNA JONES.

WILLIAM WORTHY, JR., 1s a reporter for the

"Baltimore-Afro-American

Newspaper and

was convicted in United States District

Court In Miani, Florida,

1962, for violation of More ugletien

1185B, United States Code, for having

travelled to Miani, Florida from Cuba

-6-

13.

HH 45823 DocId: 32567998 Page 23

---

## Page 24

FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)

DERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIG

10/9/63

Date

Dr. William A. Wallenmeyer,

Research Division,

Atomic Energy Comnission, Germantown, Maryland, furnished

the following Information:

On September 4, 1953, he was In Moscow, Russia,

for a scientific conference.

He attanded the opera that

evening and then returned to the Ukraine Hotel, where he

met Louis Jones through a colleague, Dr. Paul Me. Daniel.

Dr: lis Daniel and Jones were conversing at a table and

Dr. Wallenmeyer joined them for about fifteen or twenty

minutes, during the middle part of their conversation.

During this partof the conversation, Jones mentioned

returning to the United States to continue his education.

Also during this time, Dr. Mc Daniel asked Jones if he knew

Vc Dant continu

he was in trouble with the State Department over his travel

to Cuba. Dr. Wallenmeyer's impression was that Jones

realized that he was, but he seemed to think it couid be

cleared up.

Dr. Wallenmeyer had no information that Jones had

knowledge of United States travel regulations before going to

Cuba.

Also, he did not know how of when Jones went to cuba.

He thought Jones had a fairly good technical job in Cuba.

He

also thought that Jones said that he (Jones) had no passport.

Dr. Wallenmeyer said he did not pay much attention to Jones'

statements.

Jones impressed him as a person who was not

against what is being done in the United States but who thought

what was being done in Cuba was a good thing.

He seemed to

think he was helping the Cubans and was helping himself at

the same time.

He did not talk against the United States,

and even mentioned that he wanted to come back to this country.

At the same time; he was not disillusioned about what was

going on in Cuba.

Dr. Wallenmeyer was not sure that he was

present when Dr.

Mc Daniel asked Jones if he was amember of

the Communist Party. He did have the impression that Jones

was not overly concerned that he was in trouble over his

a hate campaign against the United Sates during the

portion of the conversation he heard.

Mr. Wallenmeyer is willing to testify to his contact

with Jones in Moscow.

On

10/2/63

Germantown, Maryland

at

SA C. EDWIN GLASS, JR./sch/bab

NY 105-49813

WFO 105-42974

File #

10/8/63

by

_Date dictated

• This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

-10-

HH 45823 DooId:32567998 Page 24

---

## Page 25

FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)

¿DERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGA

Date

October 9, 1963

Dr. Paul W. Me Daniel, Director, Division of Research,

Atomic Energy Connission, Cermantown, Maryland, furnished the

following information:

He was In Moscow during August and September, 1963, for

a scientific conference.

On September 4, 1963,

the night before

he left Moscow, he met. Louis Henry Jones in the Ukraine Hotel

In Moscow. At this hotel one orders coffee at a serving

bar, then

carries it to any available table.

On this occasion

Jones was occupying a table where Dr. Mc Daniel found an

empty seat.

He described Jones as about 28-30 years old;

slender face, and large prominent mouth.

Jones has a really

out-going, bubbling personality. He introduced himself and

told Dr.

Mc Daniel that he was an American citizen and lived

in havana, Cuba.

son. 2 ph to ange ar

Dr. Me Daniel became interested then and

talked with Jones for about an hour, starting at 11 p.m.,

September 4, 1963.

Jones said that he had not finished his

education and wanted to return to the United States to do so.

Although Dr. Me Daniel cannot recall the verbatim conversation,

there is no question in his minü that Jones was sympathetic

to communism. He asked if Jones was a member of the Communist

Party.

Jones said he was not a member of the Communist Party

but was fully sympathetic with the aims and goals of the communist

movement.

This was almost an exact quote of Jones' response,

to Dr: Mc Daniel's recollection.

Jones did not say why he was in Moscow. However,

he was greeted by a number of Spanish speaking people,

mostly women, who treated him with some deference as if he

were a guide of some sort for a tour.

this, however, was

only an impression of Dr. Mc Daniel's and he had no conversation

with Jones to verify 1t.

Dr. Mc Daniel did not see Jones'

wife in Moscow and had the impression that she was a psychologist

like him.

Jones said he went to Cuba on vacation about the

time of the revolution in Cuba.

He considers Castro a great

man who has done so much for the Cubans that they can never

On

10/2/63

_ at

Germantown, Maryland

by

SA C. EDWIN GLASS, JR./. sch/bab

This document contains neither recommendations nor concladi

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outsic

File #

NY 105-49813

WFO 105-42974

_ Date dictated

10/8/63

fof the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency.

23

DOcId: 32567998

Pane

---

## Page 26

NY 105-49813

repay him.

Jones described Castro as a humanitarian who

does not like violence.

When Dr. Mc Daniel asked him about

the executions by Castro, Jones defended Castro and

explained the executions

in this way: during the revolution

when the citizens of Cuba caught followers of Batista,

Castro told them not to take the law into their own hands

but to let the revolution handle those people. If Castro

ad not done this,

thousands would have been killed.

Then,

although Castro did not like to do it, he had to execuie

some to fulfill his promise to the

people.

Jones was aware of Dr. Mc Daniel's position with

the United States Covernment. When asked if he did not

think he was in irouble with

the State Department over his

travel to Cuba, he said he was sure he was.

He said that

he expected to have serious trouble, but said this would be

on the conscience of the United States Government and not

on his.

He made several very deccgatory remarks about

the United States Department of State and the United States

Government generally.

These remaris alleged that the

United States Government lied about Cuba, and about

atrocities there and took military steps against Cuba.

Jones said that in Cuba, he was working for a lady

about thirty-seven years old. He

raid he 1s. a psychologist.

His boss there in Cuba is a fine woman dedicated to the

revolution.

Jones said he found it a wonderful opportunity.

He has a free reign to conduct researuhse,

Dr. Mc Daniel asked him why so many people left

Cuba. Jones said the Batista Government had a large number

of exploiters.

They knew no other life.

They ran Cuba,

They were intelligent and important.

In the new socialist

order they just did not fit and they left.

Jones said

this was for the betterment of the Cuban system.

He expected

the revolution to be a complete success and does not expect

many of these people to ever return to Cuba.

NW 45823 DooId: 32567998

Page 26

---

## Page 27

NY 105-49813

Jones said he does not have a passport. He did

not say how he left the United States

or how he traveled

to Cuba, other than to say he went there on a vacation.

Dr. Mc Daniel asked Jones how he explained having

three servants during this revolution.

He explained the

servants by saying that this was a

transition period

in the revolution.

Jones contended that communism in theory is right.

Although Di. Me Daniel cannot recall Jones' exact words, he

received the impression to fit Jones that looked upon the

revolution in Cuba as the beginning of a great cause.

In Dr. Mc Daniel's opinion, Jones'

attitude towara

communism is an attitude one would expect him to have

if he had been born in Russia and had grown up under

communism.

Dr. Mo Daniel had no information thai Jones had

knowledge of

United States travel regulations when he

went to Cuba.

Dr. Mc Daniel is willing to appear and testify

to the above information in an administrative or

judicial hearing.

X-23-

HH 45823

DocId: 32567998

Page 27

---

## Page 28

NY 105-49813

SECI

VI. DESCRIPTION

The following description of JONES was

obtained from his file at the Passport Oifice, United

States Department of State on July 21, 1951:

Name

LOUIS HENRY JONES

Race

White

Sex

Nationality

Male

United States

Date of Birth

March 17, 1934

Place of Birth

Arlineton Heights, Ohic

Height

5'9"

Eyes

Frown (wears glasses)

Hair

BEOwn

Scars and Marks

None

Occupation

Student

Marital Status

Married; wife, LENNA SCHWEITZEF

JONas, date ci birth April 13,

1935,

Pasadena, California,

whom he married on June 11, 1954;

she resides with him

Relatives

United States

Address

Foreign Address

(April 1961)

Father GOBEL JONES,

date of birth December 9, 1899,

Monticello, Kentucky, United

states citizen, residing 3027

Colerain Avenue, Cincinnati 25,

Ohio;

Mother, ETHEL WEST JONES, date of

birth

residirg

Cincinnati, Ohio.

309 West 99th Street, New York

25, New York

Rhin 29-7, Mexico, D.F.

-16-

HH 45823 DocId: 32567998

Page 28

---

## Page 29

FI-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

"STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND OR,

RELEASE US CIA IMFORMATION

IN THIS DOCLAMENT.JM

Report of:

6-25-97

DiNES D. INGRiM

Date:

4/20/64

Ofice: New York, New York

Field Office File #: 105-49813

Bureau File #:

105-98177

Title:

LOUIS HENRY JONES

PECLASSIFIED BY 5768 SuD/KESR

0N. 7-25-97/JFK:=

Character:

INTERNAL SECURNTY - CUBA

REFERRAT DOCUMENT

FOI/PA # 249011

APPEAL #.

CIVIL ACT.

E. 0. #_123

DATE SLY

154

*Ra?

INITIALS PSK

set, forth.

Subject's birth, education,

and background Information

Informants advised subject and wife left United

States in 1961 for travel to Cuba.

In United States from subject and

Correspondence received

wife In Cuba. JONES filed

application for renewal of passport in 1951 and passport

contained restriction that it was not valid for travel to

Cuba.

Subject was In Moscow, Russia, with group from

Cuba in September, 1963, according to thrac United States

citizens who talked with him in Moscow.

JONES indicated

he was not a member of the CP but sympathized with aims

and goals of Communist movement.

JONES Indicated he was

in agreement with CASTRO's policies.

DUS

REVIEWED BY

ENJFK TASK FORCE

10/8/22 mpa/da

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

-P-

WXT

-Croup I

Tuded from

authom

eitic

downgradi

•E and

dedass

11-16-94

Ication.

Classified by

76422

Declassify ony OADR,

BLA/PSK

8/31/82

41?

REASON-FOI

DATE

WH0A5

SECRET

M CONTAINED

13004.

ExCEPT

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBi and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents dre not to be distributed outside your agency.

HH 45823

DocId: 32567998 Page 29

---

## Page 30

NY 105-49813

2. Marital Status

The Untted States Passport Office records

previously mentioned reveals JONES was married to LENNA

SORWETIZER JONES who was born on April 13, 1935, at

Paradena, California. He married her on June 11, 195+.

E.

Employment

Director, Division of Research, Atomic Frersy Conmission,

ther discussion

JONES advised MC DANTEL he was a prychologist

in Cuba.

Me said he was toid by dones, hes Jones, worked

old lady in Cuba who was dedizated to the

revolution

E: Residence

DI. MC DANIEL also advised on cataber 2, 190%.

that JONES' current address in Cube on Septenker 4, 1903,

Havana,

II. CONNECITONS LF SUBTECT

WEIVI PRO-CASTSO ORGANIZATIONS

AND RIES DEPARLORE FROM THE

UNITED STATES TO CURA

A.

Travel to Cuba

1. Association with FATH ETAY FOR CUBA COMMIEE AND

July 25ch Movement Grouss.

Ny 1-1, another Government agency which conducts

intelligence investigations, advised on April T, 190

that wOULS HENK JONEs and his wife, LENNA SCHWeIIZER JONE

described as United States Citizens

were inembers of a group who desired to go to cuba from Marico.

(U)

-3-

HH 15823

DocId:32567998 Page 30

---

## Page 31

NY 105-49813

1961, this passport was

renewed but contained the

restriction that it was

not valid for travel to Albania,

Cuba and those portions

of China, Korea and Viet Nam

under Communist control.

There was no indication in the file that JONES

requested permission for travel to Cuba.

III. COMMUNICATIONS FROM

SUBJECT

On August 13, 1962, a cablegram was sent to the

Department of Justice,

Washington, D.C., fich Havana,

Cuba, stating,

"AMERICANS IN CURA

ARE SHOCKED AT THE

INDECTMENT AND CONVIOFION OF THE NECHO NEWSEAPERMAN

WILLIAM WORTHY FOR RETURNING DO FUS HOMELAND WITHOUT

A VALID PASSPORI THIS VIOLATES NOT ONLY THE FREEDOM

OF TRAVEL BUT ALSO THE FIRST AMENDMENG TO THE CONSRITITION

GUARANTEETNG FREEDOM OF PRESS WORTH! HAS BEEN SINGLED

OUE FOR PERSECUTION NOT ONLY BECAUSE HE TS AN OUTSPOKEN

ICURNAGAST ATTEMPTING OBJECTIVE REPORTING OF THE CUBAN

PEVOLUTION BUT ALSO BECAUSE HE IS A NECRO IT IS SIUNIFICANT

THAT HIS CONVICTION COINCIDES WITH MASS ARRESIS AND POLICE

BANALITI DIRECTED AGAINST NEGRO PEOPLE THROUGHOUT THE

USA THE SPIRIT OF THE CONSTITUZION DEMANDS THAT YOU CALL

FOR THE EXONERATION OF WILLIAM WORTHY AND THE REPEAI

OF THE REGULATION UNDER WHICH HE WAS INDICTED"

LOUIS JONES and lined Jotts cahlegram was signed by

Newspaper and

was convicted in United States Distzict

travelled to Miani, Fiorida from Cuba

-6-

HH 45823

DocId: 32567998

Page 31

---

## Page 32

FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)

DERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIG

10/9/63

Date

Dr. William A. Wallenmeyer, Research Division,

Atomic Energy Comnission, Germantown, Maryland, furnished

the following information:

On September 4, 1953, he was In Moscow, Russia,

for a scientific conference.

He attanded the opera that

evening and then returned to the Ukraine Hotel, where he

met Louis Jones through a colleague, Dr. Paul Me. Daniel.

Dr: lic Daniel and Jones were conversing at a table and

Dr. Wallenmeyer joined them for about fifteen or twenty

minutes, during the middle part of their conversation.

uring this partof the conversation, Jones mentione

eturning to the United States to continue his education.

Also during this time, Dr. Mc Daniel asked Jones if he knew

he was in trouble with the State Department over his travel

Dr. Wallenmeyer's impression was that Jones

realized that he was, but he seemed to think it could be

Dr. Wallenmeyer had no information that Jones had

knowledge of United States travel regulations before going to

Cuba.

Also, he did not know how or when Jones went to Cuba.

He thought Jones had a fairly good lechnical job in Cuba.

He

also thought that Jones said that ha (dones, had no passport.

Dr. Wallenmeyer said he did not pay much aïtention to Jones'

statements.

Jones impressed him as a person who was not

against what is being done in the United States but who thought

what was being done in Cuba was a good thing. He seemed to

think he was helping the Cubans and was helping himself at

the same time.

He did not talk against the United States,

and even mentioned that he wanted to come back to this country.

At the same time, he was not disillusioned about what was

going on in Cuba. Dr. Wallenmeyer was noü sure that he was

present when Dr. Mc Daniel asked Jones if he was amember of

the Communist Party. He did have the impression that Jones

was not overly concerned that he was in trouble over his

travel to Cuba. He said he did not believe that Jones was on

a hate campaign against the United States during the

Mr.

Wallenmeyer is willing to testify to his contact

with Jones in Moscow.

10/2/63

Germantown, Maryland

NY 105-49813

WFO 105-42974

On

at

File #

SA C. EDWIN GLASS, JR./sch/102b

by

_ Date dictated

10/8/63

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency: it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

-10 -

45823 DocId:32567998 Page 32

---

## Page 33

FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)

-DERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIG

Date

October 9, 1963

Dr. Paul W. Me Daniel, Director, Division of Research,

Atomic Energy Commission, Cermantown, Maryland, furnished the

following information:

He was In Moscow during August and September, 1963, for

a scientific conference. On September 4, 1963, the night before

he left Moscow, he met Louis Henry Jones

in the Ukraine Hotel

in Moscow. At

this hotel one orders coffee at a serving

bar, then carries it to any available table.

On this occasion

Jones was occupying a table where Dr. Mc Daniel found an

empty seat.

He described Jones as about 28-30 years old;

slender face, and large prominent mouth. Jones has a

really

out-going, bubbling personality. He introduced himself and

told Dr. Me Daniel that he was an American citizen and lived

in Havana, Cuba.

Dr. Mc Daniel became interested then and

talked with Jones for about an hour, starting at lt p.m.,

September 4, 1963.

Jones said that he had not finished his

education and wanted to return to the Unlted States to do so.

Although Dr. Mc Daniel cannot recall the verbatim conversation,

there 1s no question in his minü that Jones was sympathetic

to communism. He asked if Jones was a member of the Communist

Party. Jones said he was

not a member of the Communist Party

but was fully sympathetic with the aims and goals of the communist

movement. This was almost an exact quote of Jones' response,

to Dr. Me Daniel's recollection.

Jones did not say why he was in Moscow. However,

he was greeted by a number of Spanish speaking people,

very an unprete,

mostly women, who treated him with some deference as

if he

of some sor. for a tour.

This, however, was

only an impression of Dr. Mc Daniel's and he had no conversation

with Jones to verify 1t.

Dr. Me Daniel did not see Jones!

wife In Moscow and had the impression that she was a psychologist

like him.

Jones said he went to Cuba on vacation about the

time of the revolution in Cuba. He considers Castro a great

man who has done so much for the Cubans that they can never

On

10/2/63

at Germantown, Maryland

File #

NY 105-49813

WHO 105-42974

by

SA C. EDWIN GLASS, JR./ sch/bab

10/8/63

Date dictated

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusio

sof the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outsidelyour agency.

-11-

NH 45823 DooId:32567998 Page 33

---

## Page 34

NY 105-49813

repay him.

Jones described Castro as a humanitarian who

does not like violence. When Dr, Mc Daniel asked him about

the executions by castro, Jones defended Castro and

explained the executions

in this way: during the revolution

when the citizens of Cuba caught followers of Batista,

Castro told them not to take the law into their own hands i

but to let the revolution handle those people. If Castro

had not done this, thousands would have been killed.

Then,

although Castro did not like to do it, he had to execute

some to fulfill his promise to the people.

Jones was aware of Dr. Mc Daniel's position with

the

United States Covernment.

When asked if he did not

think he was in rouble with

the State Department over his

travel. to Cuba, he said he was sure ha was,

He said that

he expected to have serious trouble, but said this would be

on the conscience of the United States Government and not

on his.

he made several very carcgatory remarks about

the United States Department of State and the United States

Government generally. These remarks alleged that the

United States Government lied about Cuba, and about

atrocities there and took military steps against Cuba.

Jones said that in Cuba, he was working for a lady

about thirty-seven years old. He paid he is. a psychologist.

His boss there in Cuba is a fine woman dedicated to the

revolution.

Jones said he found it a wonderful opportunity.

He has a free reign to conduct researchgo,

Dr. Mc Daniel asked him why so many people left

Cuba. Jones said the Batista Government had a large number

of exploiters.

They knew no other life.

They ran cuba.

They were intelligent and important.

In the new

socialist

order they just did not fit and they left.

Jones said

this was for the betterment of the Cuban system.

He expected

the revolution to be a complete success and does not expect

many of these people to ever return to Cuba.

-12-

HN 45823 DooId:32567998 Page 34

---

## Page 35

NY 105-49813

Jones said he does not have a passport. He did

not say how he left the United States or how he traveled

to Cuba, other than to say he went there on a vacation.

Dr. Mc Daniel asked Jones how he explained having

three servants during

this revolution.

He explained the

servants by saying that this was a transition period

in the revolution.

Although Dr. Mc Daniel cannot recall Jones' exact words, he

received the impression farm Jones Thor looked upon the

revolution in Cuba as the beginning of a great cause.

In Dr. Me Daniel's opinion, Jones' attitude towara

communism is an attitude one would expect him to have

if he had been born in Russia and had grown up under

communism.

Dr. Me Daniel had no information that Jones had

Knowledge of United States travel regulations when he

went to Cuba.

Dr. Me Daniel is willing to appear and testify.

to the above

information in an administrative or

judicial hearing.

HW 45823

DocId: 32567998

Page 35

---

