# docid-32340797

## Page 1

-Released under the Jour F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10221-10190

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-7195-6,7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

DONNELLY, FRANK H.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/28/1964

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS:

APR, GAMBLING ACT, ASSOC, RES, LCN, CRIMINAL ACT,

TRA, RCK, INTV, REVEL, GEORGE E.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32340797

4

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released wider the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 744 05C 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-44220174-5-1-198

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/20/34 - 5/13/64

TITLE OF CASE

ANTHONY

5/28/54

REPORT MADE BY

FRANK M. DONNELLY

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPEL

eag

PROVENCANO, aka.

Al.

REFERENCES:

Report of i. FUN: I. DONNELLY dated 2/28/84, at

Nevark.

Newark letter to Jan Juan dated 4/22/34.

New York lettor to Newark

dated

4/24/34.

REVIEWED BY TUFK TASE FORGE

ON 10/2/98 Cal

TO TRE BUREAU

NELEASE IN PART

TOTAL

Original and one copy of a letternere

itemorandum

characterizing the informants used in this repo.

ADMINISTRATIVE

PROVENZANO'S Federal income tax returns

for the

years 195% through 1962 have seen reviewed.

They do not

appear to contain any information of value

to this investigation.

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

3) -

Bureau (02-7195) (Areng)

1

USh, Newark

2

New York (92-2149)

2

-

Can Francisco

- San Juan (92-149) (info)

2

- Newark (92-1536)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

REC- 1

JUN 1 1964

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

BY

1200

DocId: 32340797 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USc 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

3

;

NK 92-1536

INFORMANT'S

Identity of source

NK T-1

NK 2381-C-TE

NK T-2

NY 4003-C-TE

NK T-3

NK 2327-C

NK I-

NK 1741-CJ

LEADS

NEW YORKE

Service, so Test XorK sWeet,

Till, at the Empress Travel

ascertain whether ANTHONY

PROVENZANO has utilized this

service.

If so, determine

available information concerning any travel

on his part.

BAN FRANCISCO

AT SAN FRANCISCO

ChLIF.: Will, at the Hotel Embassy

or at the residence of (FNU) CATRONE, develop bael:goun‹

information concerning TONY GALLO so that his prior activities

in the New Jersey area may be developed.

It is noted that CLTRONE is alleged to be the head

of Standard Brands of San Francisco.

NEWARK

being conducted by San Juan.

3

Cover Page

DodId: 32310797. Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE:

11-14-2017

5.204 (Rer3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERÄL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

I - USA, Newar!:

FRANK H. DONNELLY

May 28, 1964

92-1536

ANTHONY PROVENZANO

Office:

Bureau File #:

Newark, New Jersey

92-7195

Character:

Synopsis:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Sources advised PROVENZANO is attempting to become

active

in the San Francisco area.

Investigation at Richmond,

Va., indicates PROVENZANO was involved in a beting scheme

on fixed horse races.. PROVENAND's appeal againgt conviction

for a

violation of Title 18, section 1951, USC, argued before

United States Court of Appeals, Philadelphia, Pa.,

3/12/64.

No decision handed down to date. Investigation at Jan Juan,

P.R., set forth.:

DETAILE:

ASSOCIATES

On April 8, 1954, NK I-I advised that JOSEPH

ZICAPELLI, Hudson County hoodlum and La Cosa Nostra member,

has

teen censored by representatives of several of the

New York families in la Cosa Nostra because of the activities

Of ZICARELLI'S man HAROLD KONIGUBERG, Hudson County hoodlum

and shylock.

The informant also pointed out that KONIGSBERG'S

activities have been a source of annoyance and some embarrass-

ment to PROVENZANO.

On April 15, 1954,

NK T-2 stated that he has recently

spent several months on the

West Coast in the San Francisco

area:

While in San Francisco, he learned that ANTHONY PROVANZANO

is attempting to move into the San Francisco area.

His contacts

and interests there are being handled by TONY GALLO, who is

supposed to be a nephew of PROVENZANO.

GALLO had resided for

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32340797 Page 4

---

