# docid-32295237

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10215-10013

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 45-10801-3RD NR 3

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: USCG

FROM: DICKSON. D. H. JR.

TO: COMMANDANT OI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/14/1968

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT: GRANWOOD, SUSP, EXPLOSION, TEST

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

01/06/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

REFERRED TO USCG, INC MEMO, DRAWING

DocId: 32295237

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 711 050

2707

Tote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

-UNITED STATES COAST GUARD

Address reply to:

COMMANDER (ole)

Eighth Coast Guard District

Customhouse

New Orleans, La, 70130 le

Rec

mail

5900

14 June

1968

Serial 268

From:

To :

Commander, Eighth Coast Guard District

Commandant (OI)

subj: Suspected bombing of M/V GRANWOOD; investigation of

hennan

1.

A copy of subject investigation less photographs is forwarded

for your information.

D. H. DICKSON, JR.

By direction

Copy

to:

COMDT (OLE)

CCGD7 (0)

88° M9 as

35 mul

with

photograph's

FOR: INFOyFileS

23:

ENCLOSURE

INTELLIGENCE STAFF

U. S. COAST CUARD

WASHINCION, D. C.

Comes.

F. JAMES TESSING, CDR. USCG

SENACLICE

TOM SP

iMA.

i do binat

31 NR3

Doc1A: 32295237

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy. Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

Address reply to:

CAPTAIN OF THE PORT

50_0. BOX 1788

MOBILE, ALABANA

36601

FROM:

TO:

INS. L. J. GAILO, 43519,1

COMMANDER, EIGHTH CG DISTRICT (OLE)

VIA: CONNANDING OFFICER, GROUP MOBILE

SUBJ: SUSPECTED BOBBING OF M/V GRANWOOD

1. On 12 WAY 1968 the M/V GRANHOOD arrived at Mobile. On I3 MAY, an

investigating team consisting of ENS L. j. Gallo 43519 and G2DG Connan

359 315 boarded the subject vessel and questioned the master, the first

mate and the 2ed engineer. The folloing is a summary of the statements

given by each man.

A. Captain (Master); Capt. T. N. Beaton

Capt. Beaton informed us t hat M/V GRANWOOD arrived in Miami on

2 HAY and moored at the new docks directly across and south of the

MacArthur Causeway. He added that mooring was in close proximity.

to the Greek magnate Onassis' yacht

"Christina". In addition, he

reported that he knew of no unusual occurences mile moored in

Miami from 1400Q 2 MAY until 18302 3 MY when the vessel got

underway enroute to Mobile.

At approximately 07302 4 MAY an explosion beneath the starboard

engine roon rocked the ship which began taking on water rapidly.

The vessel at this time was about 15 miles west of Sand Key off

Key West at coordinates 21°22'W and 82°OS1. A Coast Guard small

boat from Key West was on scene shortly after with 2 small pumps.

The tug Cable was on scene about 1/002 and calmenced devatering

and patching operations on starboard hull. Hole measured

4 it. high by 27 in, across with the edges turned inward.

4s - 10801

ENCLOSURD

DocId: 32295237 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATES 11-11-2017

Page 2-

Bo 2nd Engineer Dovey- M/ GRANVOOD

Dovey stated that the fresh water tanks are located beneath the

starboard engine room..

Between frames 31 and 32 fron aft and on

outboard side of water tank is located the starboärd sea chest.

Dovey was in the engine room with 2 others when the explosion

ocurred. The first thing noticed was a flash at the suction pump

as electrical connections were severed; suction pump is located

in engine room directly above and connected to the sea chest

below. Machinery then began breaking up in the area of the

suction pump and surrounding hull began to buckle and fracture

in several places. Water then began entering the engine' room

fron water tank via broken pipes and splits in the water tank

top. They quickly evacuated and it was not until 4 hrs. later

(11302) that the engine room was completely filled with water.

Dovey also stated that the water tanks were filled to capacity

and had been since departure from England. No one had been in

the water tanks since they were filled in England.

When questioned about any unusual activities while moored in

Miami, Dovey replied that the boilerman of the M/ GRANWOOD had

invited the and engineer of the "Christina". to 100k over (GRAN:OOD)

engine room. Nothing else of consequence was noted.

C. Chief Mate Blagg

- When questioned about the deck watch while moored in Miami on

the night of 2 MAY, he replied that the man on watch noticed

nothing unusual around the ship.

D. Diver of Iug Cable - Music :

Music confirned the fact that the hole was 27" by 48", triangular

DocId: 32295237 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: "11-14-2017

Page 4

(y) represents the plate which was curled back by the explosive

force. (z) represents forward bulkhead of the sea chest. Note

how this bulkhead has been twisted apart by the blast.

(4)

Shows plate curled

up at the rim of the sea chest aperature.

Picture is inboard view of outboard side of the sea chest.

(5)

Picture shows member of investigating team descending thru hatch

into forward half of water tank 2 frames forward of the sea chest.

(6)

Picture taken looking aft in engine room. Note how frame is buck-

led at (x). Hatch leading to water tank is in the lower left

hand corner of the picture.

(7) Picture is taken looking outboard toward hull. (x) marks the

entrance to the water tank.

(8) -(11) Pictures show starboard side of M/V GRANWOOD from aspects beginning

aft and proceeding forward. Hole in hull occurred between

FRAMES 31 and 32 FROM AFT just under water tank top.

1 Sula

Encl: (1) Drawings of damaged area.

Set of

12 Polaroid color photographs.

(3)

Set of 8 black and white press photographs.

..EIRST

... ENDORSEMENT

CE GROUP' MOBILE, ALA..

1. FORMARDED

DATE

3 JUN 1988

D. B. CHARTER, JR.

Is list

DocId: 32295237

Page 5

---

## Page 6

nalosure

DocIA: 32295237

Page

6

Suchon Puno

Engine Room

Water Tanke Top

- Water Tande Bullehead

Passage three Water Tanke Bullehead

Sea Chist bordered

by inboard plate and

Sea chest strainer.

(This is arza of hull

blown inward by explosion)

CROSS SEGNON - AFTER STARBONDS QUARTER LOOKING AFT

(ESTWEEN FRAMES 31 $ 32 FROM AST)

Hall

Sea Chost Compartment

Sia Chest

I Inboand balkhead of Sea Chast

Intrance To Water

Openings in Water Fant

Bulkheads:

Water Tank Compartmants

TOp VIEW - LOOKING THAN WATER TANK TOP

DOWN INTO WATER TANK

-Released

wider the Tor

DATE:

11-14-2017

Kenned

Assassination Records Collection Aot-

of

---

