# docid-32323170

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90011-10008

RECORD SERIES :

WMFO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

FBI

WMFO

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 04/06/1962

' PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

EDWARD MOSS/EDWARD MORGAN ELSUR

MOSS/MORGAN ELSUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

SUMMARY;

v9.1

DocId: 32323170

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hötey

DATE: 11-14-2017

AEL IXFOAVAZION CONTAINED

EGADER 4S UNODASSIZIED

BACARE WHERE SROWD

SECRET

4/6/62

(S

Y SUMMARY

Washington,

D.Co

April 6, 1962

Friday

2:17 am

(ph) to A.I. KREXRON

RETROV informing him that he

reserva

the group to go to Ny tonight

by train.

PETROVS

said that he had already made 3 reservations

by plane for the men (delegation?) to leave tonight at 10:45 pm

would then

from Wash, to NY on flight Northeas errrowsht 236 and ther

go to Paris and Moscow.

said that he was

just about to call and ask FAYE about the interpreter..

then it will be handle the way PETROV sarranged.

RGESANU®

WF 800-55) 11 h

he could come over

-SHNIKOVS)

"watches".

Yes.

Caller Said

he would come right over.

WE

I7-25

800-S(s) pressing him about that story on

get hold of PIEBRE SALINGER yesterday but could not and

soon as they finish their con

peen feelingeill lately however had

good rest last night. MRS

MRELNIKOVAIs almost due to have her

secpnd child and is

wregniortable.

RUSS)

ek

9:12 am

279-57

ELICE

TONES (ph),

ryne choractata, phone numbe

would like to have a group of 100 or so student:

nc

visit through the SoF. - SARAIOVAGyill call back to advise

result of her inquiry.

jfb

UNIDENT FEMALE

Cr279-6 Exhubit. He told caller that "we" wilt

LD Moscow talked to be yunoV of the Children's

leave NYC by air on

17-26

the evening

the lOth(April) He told her he would call her froz

the airport

and not to try meeting him. He gave regards to all

and said he had

some small gifts for them.

RUSSIG,

his secretary that AmbAE. DOBRYNIN receive

to arrange la possible meetin:

not the one en can tending in tation for luanh

to ROOSEVELT and arranged for Wednesday,

"pril loth at

1:00 an at ambo pendins confirmation by poosivili's secretary:

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SL0/GCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X. (1/6)

(JFK) 511319769125 97

(& X 359976 000-14.592-1u41

441015

SEARGHED

-INDEXED

SECRET

APR 9 1962

FBI WASHA FA 0.

DocId: 32323170 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (1T USC 2107 Mote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

(5)

WASHINGTON, D.C.

April 6, 1962

FRIDAY

SUMMARY

HORTON said

but not for the

to NYC on 4-13 or 14 and

will arrange this trip.

addresses of those he has now.

He asked HORTON for the names and

(RUSSICS)

ek

attending a luncheon of Overseas writers Cule

he has already talked to DOBRYNIN who accepted, but not befor

two weeks,

since he is still getting acquainted MORGAN 15 to

call back in two weeks.

OK.

pwm

4:50

[WE

pm

BNO Lade

¡EVCHKO Was talking to an Unia Male, to whom he

279-55) proposed lunch.

They agreed to meet on April 10, at 12:30 pm

nc

Blackie's House of Beefe

4:37

BOTSHAKOVI to Pierre

alinger at the white House,

who told

SALINGER,

29-20

week Irom Thursday." BOLSH'

35960, 10:5%

won't be able to do it. BOLSH"?

ACT NHN

SALINGER about his, SALINGER's, story. SALINGER said he

is waiting

to talk to the President about it and will call

Borst then he returns to Palm Beach a week from Thursday. OK. pun

RELNIKOV, "Pravda" correspondent in

York Sadvising him of the above information, and asking him

4:41

pm

29-21

4:40 pm

WE 279-s]6, she had

OOHE ph) L/D from Philadelphia to D.D.

checked

and the travel agent cabled Moscow to

Intoat iss

29-24

for Hotel reservations and

as soon as an answer is receiveds

BOOTHE will purchase the $12.00 a day coupon and report back to

the Consular DivaS, She

has also advised her associates in London

to do the same, and will advise them as soon as she knows

hotel BARRY HOLLISTER (ph) will

have, so they may contac+ what

requestingsthe same hotel.

BoOTHE did not know if

in London had received any reply from the Union

of soviet societies for Cultural Relations. oK.

pwm

3600276)

DocId: 32323170

Page 3

---

