# docid-32290379

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10205-10155

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-2295

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/26/1970

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

4

SGI, ASSOC, TELCAL, WHEREABOUTS, TRA, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290379

' Page 1

134

---

## Page 2

Teased'under the Thn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Rote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

OFTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY: 1.962

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101 - 11.6

i UNITED STATES

MENT

Memorandum

TO

RƠM

CLAGNITTED DEGISTONS ETNATIZED

B5D-7220

SISE EO MITRE (DRC)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171) DAT: 1S

DATE:

SCAT, MEXICO (92-13) CP CONFIDENTIAN

A PROPRI

SCENCIES

3-26-70

SAS REVERST

SIDE FO

CLASSEIILATTON

ACS

AND.FIET D

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, aka

ADVISED

B

VICES

JUTING

SLIP (S)

DATE

Bensely790-9

11/6/8

3 - 11-8 Earsit

Remylet 2-10-70. V

Dest

•On 2-6-70,*MEX-34 durnished the following

information regarding subscribers to listed telephones at

Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico

2-39-65 listed to Mrs. RUTH DAVIS (LYNN) ,

Leyva 401;

2-59-75 listed to Mrs. JOSEFINA HERRERA, Indepen-

dencia 13 (a small store called Mi Tiendita);

2-29-02 is listed to ELDRED TAMER, Palmira Avenue,

Privada Tepehuaja l1 However the person answering

this number indicated that it is the house of Mrs.

MA CHADO

2-16-78

is listed to G.W.E

Eugenia and Chihuahua.

MANNING, corner of

The Angb-American Directory lists a GEORGE W. B. \

• 10

Cuernavaca.

in Mexico City,

giving his address as Genova 2-303, telephone

occupation listed

Telephone

2-08-29 in Taxco, Guerrero; Mexico; is,

heanein

BECCIAND

ĐỊC

759 3 12

senter

3-1970

(1 - Liaison Section) DI

(2 - Chicago,

92-349)

(1 - Lasy Vegas: 192-3081

Mexico City

ARSC: wr

200 not tig6-9

(8)

0)

EXEMPT FROM GDIS

CATE

26e9

DIATE

DECLASISIFICATZOI

APR 1 Bu

Wis

S. Savings Bonds Regularly on 1l, Payroll Savings Plan?

DocId: 32290379

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

'DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

On 2-14-70, FRANK BRANDSTETTER (PROTECT by request),

Manager of the Las Brisas Hotel in Acapulco, davised that he

lad no reports that the Subiect had been ip that area.

He

advised that he would be alert to Subject's possible presence

in the area. He said that FRANK SINATRA has not been in

Acapulco to his knowledge and that considered that he would

know because this is generally widely publicized and, in

addition,

SINATRA usually contacts him.@u)

He noted that the Acapulco Towers Hotel supposedly

has been bought by the Gulf and Western conglomerate, but that

he is suspicious as to the validity of this purchase. He

indicated that MOE MORTON remains as Manager of this

but that all the hotel employees have been recently instalied

and obviously have been given directions to not disclose

information as to persons or activities at the hotel.& (4)

any

FURANDSTETTER advised that he hoard

a report that the Presidential candidate, LUIS ECHEVERRIA? would

be staying at the Acapulco Towers while in Acapulco? CHe con-

sidered this would be a grave mistake because of the presence

Of MORTON and possibly other American gangsters at the Acapulco

Towers and indicated that he planned to discreetly warn the

candidate through a mutual contact asainst such activity. t

† was late

he Las Brisas Hoteld

ported that the candidate stayed at

Acs MEX-28 las been contacted on various oscasions,

most recently on 3-23-70. He has had no personal contact with

the Subject since before December, 1969, which he considers

to be most unusual, although in part due to his own extended •

absence on leave in the States. In addition, the LERNERS,

with whom Subject has a closer contact, have also been on

extended travel outside of Mexico

Source had a large party on 3-7-70, and was in a

dilemma as to whether or not to ask the Subject. He knew

Subject would hear of the party because he was asking the

LERNERs and Subject's attorney, CASTILLO, and other mutual'

friends. He was not adverse to asking the Subject and felt that

the Subject would be hurt not to be invited; however, at the same

time, he was inviting the Ambassador and high Embassy officials;

-2-

BE

2 - 0818:

DocId: 32290379 Page 3

---

