# docid-32327861

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90066-10102

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3960-96

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 07/26/1965

PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 45799

14

DocId: 32327861

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NY 92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE

On 5/12/65, NY 4336-C-TE advised SA JOHN P.

HERLIHY that the subject reportedly made a deal for a one

year sentence relative to an Income Tax conviction.

stated that GRANELLO was found

Income Taxes on a large sum of hunty for the evasion of

The informant further

related that the subject is still waiting to be sentenced

for Attempted Extortion in Nassau County, NY.

from the dtails.

and a Bench Warrant will

Contempt of Court.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NY T-1

Sergeant GLENN DETRO,

Greenwood Lake PD.

Sreenwood Lake, NY

(due to position)

NY T-2

NY 4302-C

NY T-3

NY, 3884-C

NY T-4

NY 4336-C-TE

NY T.

PCI

NY T-6

NY 4729-PC

NY T-7

Mr. MYRON DI PASQUALE

Probation Officer,

Nassau County, NY

(due to position)

Contacting Agent

EUGENE J. HINDES

MARTIN P. CONLEY

ARTHUR G. BEHM

JOHN P. HERLIHY

PATRICK J. MOYNIHAN

WILLIAM A. VERICKER

EUGENE J. HINDES

OTHER 4

- B-

-COVEP PACE-

20006..109

NW 45799 DocId: 32327861 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-1108

INFORMANTS CONT'D

Identity of Source

NY T-8

NY 4317-C

NY T-9

PH 614-C-TE

Contating Agent

EUGENE J. HINDES

LEADS

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA An information copy of this

report is being submitted to the Miami Division in view

of the many associates the subject has in that area

and his past activities in that locale.

NEWARK

AT NEWARK, NEW JERSEY An information copy of

this report is being

furnished to the Newark Divisior

n view of the current investigation being conductec

in that area.

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK Will follow the appeals

of the subject relative to his Income Tax case.

2. Will follow and report on the subject's

sentencing for Attempted Extortion in Nassau County, NY.

3. Will follow and report on the subject's

activities.

-C*-

-COVER PAGE-

NW 45799 DocId: 32327861 Page 3

---

