# docid-32327119

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90059-10015

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 62-9-9-1594

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/23/1964

5

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM CHICAGO DIVISION

RICHARD CAIN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32327119 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE it+14-20137

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

- • FiBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority)

9/23/64

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM

: SAC, CHICAGO (92-466)

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM,

CHI CAGO DIVISION

whet

REC:35

CG 6498-CTE advised 9/22/64 that he has received

before the Cook County Grand Jury investigating the

burglary of a million dollars' worth of drugs from the

Zahn Drug Co. approximately 15 months ago.

This informant

advised that he has been reliably informed that CAIN

intended to testify before the grand jury concerning

witness which he has developed and whom he will identify,

who allegedly gave a $5,000 bribe to EDWARD JEGAN lst

Assistant, Cook County State's Attorney'S Office:

informant advised that he understands that this -bribe

was accepted by EGAN in order to see that a no bill would

be returned by the July grand jury in the Zahn case.

noted that, in fact, the July grand jury did return a no bill

in the Zahn drug case.

As background concerning this information, it is

noted that at the present time, Cook County State's Attorney

DANIEL WARD and Cook County Sheriff RICHARD OGILVIE are

publicly at odds with each other concerning the Zahn drug case.

Bure au

2

- Chicago

(1 = 137-3236)

WFR/krp

(5)

62-99-1514

966

ES SER 25 1964.

_COPIES MAEREC-35

5.78

FOR REVILW

PRIO BY

HSCA REY 28 ZORENIRON

(SEE BUTILE #62-117290)

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

M

Per

& So Wick

DocId: 32327119 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released onder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE 5 11-14-2017

CG 92-466

Carvelle Hotel and the handwriting of Sgt. CHACONAS.

WARD has indicated that CAIN staged this raid for the

publicity which he received as a result thereof.

This week, five of the members of the

Special

Investigations Unit of the Cook County Sheriff's Office

have been requested to appear before the Cook County

grand jury investigating these irregularities.

CHACONAS testified earlier in the week and CAIN testified

yesterday. Newspapers today disclosed that while CAIN

was testifying, on 9/22/64, he requested that LOUIS

GARRIPPO, the State's Attorney's Assistant who is presenting

evidence

to the grand jury, and a court reporter, be

excluded from the room so that he could give the grand

jury"secret information."

It would appear that the "secret

information" would involve the information provided above

by CG 6498-CTE.

Lt. JAMES DONNELLY, CAIN'S Chief Liatenant in

the Special Investigations Unit, and Sgt. WILLIAM MELVIN

WITSMAN are also scheduled for testimony before the grand

jury concerning their

participation in the raid on the

• Caravelle Motel.

WARD has also requested that WILLIAM MORAN be

called to testify before the grand jury.

However

MORAN is currently attending a

police school in WASHINGTON, D.C.

the state of lashtngton, and Sheriff OGILVIE has, to this

point, refused to call him back to Chicago to testify

before the grand jury.

• this

raid on the Caravelle Hotel led by CAIN, would tend to

indicate the guilt of CAIN in this regard, the Chicago

Office has developed no concrete information substantiating

this.

The Chicago Office likewise has developed no

information indicating that EGAN took any bribe in order

- 3-

DocId: 32327119 Page 3

---

