# docid-32556644

## Page 1

0.000

EX 105

4/12/65

AIRTEL

-3152-1071

1 - Mr. Leggett

TO:

FROM:

Legat, Bern

Director, FBI

GUS ALEX, aka.

AR

Tolson

Belmont.

Mohr

DeLoach -

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel.

Trotter _

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

A confidential source of the Chicago Office has

advised that Alex is considering a future trip to Europe to

include a visit to Greece. Alex is presently attempting to

determine if he can also visit Switzerland, in view of the

recent action of Swiss authorities in banning his re-entry

until

1975.

...It is noted that Alex had previously indicated

he would retain a lawer in Switzerland to hance an sappeal

in this matter.

00

Chicago has also received information tronanother

source indicating that Alex has considerable busindss to

conduct in Switzerland and that 6/24/65 has been mentioned

as a possible sailing date for him and his paramour, suzanne

Fueger, to make this visit.

Bureau desires to be advised of any pertinent

information received by you concerning this situation.

I - Torelen tialson (route throney for review)

NOTE:

Alex and his girl friend, Suzanne Fueger, visited

Switzerland for an annual vacation

and following their visit to

Switzerland several months ago, Swiss authorities issued an

order banning Alex's return before 1975 on the basis that he

was an undesirable person.

that Alex may be handling

at Bor, i being as in savance 02

• Some indication has been received

• financial transactions in Switzerland

in advance of his next proposed

-travel to

that country.

JGL: ral

(5)

PR 821061

MAILED 4

APR 1 4 1965

COMM-FBI

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 45679 DocId: 32556644

Page 1

---

