# docid-32560419

## Page 1

Report Forn

FD•263 45-22-55.

•FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

PHILADELPHIA

TITLE OF CASE

ANGELO BRUNO

Office of Origin

PHILADELPHIA

Date

8/15/60

Report made by

J. ROBERT PEARCE

CHARACTER OF CASE

Investigative Period

6/1 - 8/5/60

AR

Typed By:

PHH

5T

152-985SX

Approved

Copies made:

Reference

Report of SA J. ROBERI PEARCE dated 5/31/60,

at Philadelphia

Philadelphia letter to the Director dated 7/15/60.

-P-

Leads

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLA.:

Will conduct the following investigation regarding

ANGELO BRUNO as set forth in reference Philadelphia report:

*]. Will ascertain the identity of the cigarette

vending machine business in which

ANGELO BRUNO has allegedly

purchased an interest at Miami Beach, Fla., noting that this

business is, according to PH 523-0, in the

wife of ANGELO BRUNO.

Special Agent

in Charae

Do not write in spaces below

92-2717-51

2

Bureau (92-2717) KC 4719

Miami (92-139)

Philadelphia (92-444)

REG .83

AUG 16 1960

10*

SPARES

property SAVe 2 2 1960, 3,

you by the FBl, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

I U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: OFFICE: O- 385319

NW 45737 DooId:32560419

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PH 92-444

#2.

Will also endeavor to ascertain through

confidential sources or records pertaining to the transfer

of ownership of this business, the identity of the bank at

which ANGELO BRUNO or his wife, SUE BRUNO, have an account,

noting that sue BRUno told PH 523-0 she wrote a check of

$50,000 in purchasing this business.

Will contact MM 647-PC, who according to

BRUNO of Philadelphia, had gone into

machine business in the Miami area.

#4. Will interview CHARLES I. COSTELLO who

maintains a residence at 12468 North Bayshore Drive, North

Miami, Fla., considering that ANGELO BRUNO and ANGELO BRUNO's

wife furnished Miami telephone #NA 7-5095, listed to COSTELLO*:

when obtaining reservations at National Airlines in Miami on

4/24/60, for flights from Miami, Flaa, to Philadelphia, Pa.,

as is set forth in Miami letter to Philadelphia 5/6/60.

#5. W111, though sources, ascertain if ANGELO

BRUNO has a financial Interest in the Montmart (phonetic)

Notel "next to the Eden Roc" as ANGELO BRUNO's wife has

stated that she and her husband have a financial interest

1n this motel. Note:

The above reference may be to the

Montmartre Hotel.

PHILADELPHIA

AT PHILADELPHIA, PA.:

Will maintain contact with informants

associated with BRUNO to ascertain his activities.

2. Will attempt to interview BRUNO to obtain

any additional information with emphasis on subject's

venture in Florida.

Administrative Data

Note that Philadelphia letter to the Director

7/15/60, states that ANGELO BRUNO was in Florida almost

entirely since the date of last report.

For this reason

a report would not be submitted until investigation was

completed by the Miami Division.

This is the reason for

the extended investigative period in this report.

COVER PAGE

903-19590

NW 45737 DooId: 32560419 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-444

PH T-1

PH 523-6

PH T-2

PH 514-C

PH T-3

MM 647-PC

Informants

contacted by sA J.

ROBERT PEARCE

on 6/1/00 and 7/6/00

Contacted by sAd.

ROBERT PEARCE

on 6/28/60 and 8/5/60

SA ELMER F. EMRICH, 7/21/60,

Miami letter to Philadelphia

7/29/60.

-C*

COVER PAGE

503-105887

HH 45737

DooId: 32560419

Page 3

---

## Page 4

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES

Memornuure

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2777)

DATE:

7/15/60

SAC, PHILADELPHIA (92-139)

SUBJECT:

ANGELO BRUNO, aka;

AR

Re report of SA J. ROBERT PEARCE dated 5/31/60 at Philadelphia.

on 7/6/60 PH 523-0 advised that as of the previous Saturday,

7/2/60, she had been told by ROSITA, beautician for SUE BRUNO, wife of

ANGELO BRUNO, that the BRUNO family was presently in Florida.

ROSITA told

the informant that she had received a card from SUE BRUNO but the informant

was unable to ascertain where the BRUNOs were staying in Florida or the

duration of their stay•

On 6/28/60 PH 514-C advised that he had learned two days previous

from the informant's brother, that ANGELO BRUNO was presently in Florida

and was rumored to be contemplating moving there-for at least the major part

of his time.

Noting that captioned subject has, since the date of previous

report, spent the majority of his time in Florida, no report is being

submitted by the Philadelphia Division until the completion of investigation

by the Newark and Miami Divisions.

Bureau (92-2717)

I - Miami (92-139) (Info)

1 - Newark (92-478) (Info)

2 - Philadelphia (92-444)

JRP: jp

(6)

EX 109

REG. 75

92-2717-50

170 JUL 15 1960

F55

52 JUL 19 1080

VLINTEL.

NW 45737 DooId: 32560419 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PH 92-444

1) Will ascertain the identity of the cigarette

vending machine business

in which

ANGELO BRUNO has allegedly

purchased an interest at Miami Beach, Fla., noting that this

business is.

according to PH 523-0,

in the name of SUE BRUNO,

wife of ANGELO BRUNO.

2) Will also endeavor to ascertain through

confidential sources or records pertaining to the transfer

of ownership of this business, the identity of the bank at

which ANGELO BRUNO or his wife, SUE BRUNO, have an account.

noting that SUE BRUNO told PH 523-C she wrote a check of $50,000

in purchasing this business.

3) Will contact MM 647-PC. who according to

relet to

Philadelphia. 3/29/60, stated that ANGELO BRUNO of

Philadelphia had gone Into the cigarette vending machine

business in the Miami area.

4) Will interview CHARLES I. COSTELLO who

maintains a residence at 12468 North Bayshore

"rive, North

Miami, Fla., considering that ANGELO BRUNO and ANGELO BRUNO's

wife furnished Miami telephone #NA 7-5095, listed to COSTELLO

when obtaining reservations at National Airlines in Miami

4/24/60 for flights from Miami, Fla., to Philadelphia, Pa..

as

Is set forth in Miami letter to Philadelphia, 5/6/60.

5) Will, through sources, ascertain if ANGELO

BRUNO has a financial interest in the Montmart (phonetic)

Motel 'hext to the Eden Roc" as ANGELO BRUNO's wife has stated

that she and her husband have a financial interest in this

motel.

Note:

The above

reference may

• be to the Monmartre

Hotel.

NEWARK

One

copy of this

report is being designated

B

COVER

PAGE

18583-10570

NW 45737 DooId: 32560419 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PH 92-444

for Newark due to previous investigation in

this

matter.

PHILADELPHIA

AT PHILADELPHIA, PA.

1) Will maintain contact with informants associated

with BRUNO to ascertain his activities.

Will attemptato interview BRUNO to obtain

any additional information with emphasis on subject's ventures

in Florida.

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

PHILADELPHIA

By letter 3/29/60, the Miami Division stated

that the Miami files reflect that MM 647-PC advised that

ANGELO BRUNO of Philadelohia has gone into the cigarette

vending machine business in the Miami area.

PH 523-0 on 4/26/60, engaged SUE BRUNO, wife of

ANGELO BRUNO,

in conversation, at which time, SUE told the

Informant that she had recently written a check in the amount

of $50,000 to purchase control or part interest in a vending

machine business in Miami. Fla.

In addition she said that

she and ANGELO BRUNO had

a financial interest in the Monmart

(phonetic) Motel "next to the Eden Roc" in Miami but that this

financial interest could not show. SUE BRUNO told the informant

290g Run n!

that she had returned to Philadelphia from Miami the previous

evening, 4/25/60, and had made a number of trips from Philadelphia

to Miami and, in

fact, made two trips within one week during

the recent past.

SUE. BRUNO said that ANGELO BRUNO had been

able to obtain most of his $180,000 investment in a gambling

casino in Havana, Cuba, and to get this money out of Cuba.

Regarding the vending machine business in Miami

or Miami Beach, SUE BRUNO told the informant that the check

for $50,000 as

well as the business was In SUE BRUNO's name.

SUE BRUNO told the informant that she had met a lot of "big

people" in Miami but informant was unable to learn the identity

of any of these individuals..

COVER PAGE

903-18580

NW 45737 DooId: 32560419 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PH 92-444

COSTELLO will be further identified In the

body of this report.

on 4/26/60, PH 523-C was requested to contact

the residence of MICHAEL BRUNO, 810 Snyder Avenue, for

purposes of ascertaining who was present in

this home,

considering that a spot check of MICHAEL BRUNO's residence

during the evening 4/25/60 until 10:30 p.m. 4/26/60.

failed to indicate any unidentified males entering or

leaving MICHAEL BRUNO's residence or any unusual activity.

On 4/26/60, the informant encountered SUE BRUNO at her

son's residence, 810 Snyder Avenue, at which time she

obtained the

above mentioned information regarding BRUNO's

Investment in a cigarette vending machine business

in Miami

Beach and other financial negotiations or investments by

BRUNO

learned from SAC TEAGUE, Miami, that it was possible that

Learnad prom b/2 /EAduEs sha

On 4/26/60. ASAC DEAN W. ELISON, Philadelphia,

the

from Fort Myers, Fla., to

Philadelphia

might not have been to JIMMY and could possibly

have been to a JEANIE.

It is believed that this was the

person who was called in Philadelphia inasmuch as JEAN BRUNO.

the teenage daughter of ANGELO BRUNO, resides 934 Snyder

Avenue, a short distance from

where

her brother resides,

810 Snyder Avenue, and would logically be at her brother's

residence if

her

parents were both in Miami.

PH 269-0 on 4/26/60, telephonically contacted

the Maggio Cheese Company, Ilth Street and Washington Avenue.

where he usually sees BRUNO and talked to SALVATORE MAGGIO

who told the informat that he would attempt to locate BRUNO

and would call the informant.

In approximately 15 minutes,

SALVATORE MAGGIO called informant and said BRUNO was not in

town and he knew nothing further.

On 4/27/60, MARIO MAGGIO called PH 269-0

and

said that he had

just learned that DAD (referring to BRUNO)

would be back in Philadelphia late the following day, 4/28/60.

E

COVER

. > PAGE

803-18589

NW 45737 DooId: 32560419 Page 7

---

## Page 8

PH 92-444

RIZZO emphasized that this information should

not be divulged under any circumstances and was furnished

strictly on a confidential basis.

Ho stated that he

knew from this and other sources that ANGELO BRUNO

definitely had MITCHELL COHEN working for him in

BRUNO'g numbers activity.

on 3/24/60, PH 269-C advised SA DALE Mo

HIESTAND that he was

well acquainted

wi th

MITCHELL

COHEN.

Regarding COHEN, whom the Informant had an

appointment with that day, the following information

was furnished:

COHEN was best known for being a close associate

of former Philadelphia City Commissioner SAMUEL ROSE,

leceased. He was characterized in this connection as

being a "confidential runner," meaning that COHEN was

used to carry confidential messages to people wanting to

contact SAMUEL ROSE in a confidential manner:

COHEN maintains close liaison and a friendly

relationship with one MORRIS,STAR, a former Philadelphia

founty Detective, who is now employed in the offices of

Philadelphia City Councilman HARRY NORWICK.

He is a

"confidential runner" for STAR at

this time.

The informant

STAR's offices later 3/24/60.

in fact, was to meet COHEN in

The informant stated that COHEN was definitely

connected with BRUNO at this time and was in the numbers

racket with BRUNO. The informant said that COHEN, he

believed, was primarily used by BRUNO for COHEN?s

nections more than for his numbers opea tion which.

BRUNO conducts.

It was previously reported that MM 665-PC

on 10/5/59 advised SA ROBERT F• FETZNER, Miami Division,

of observing ANGELO BRUNO In the Luau Restaurant, North

Bay Village,

Flas

COVER PAGE

903-19589

NW 45737 DooId: 32560419 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PH 92-444

E. LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

PH 269-S, on 2/12/60, advised that he had

purchased Garwood Industries,

a concern selling equipment

used by truckers in the removal of trash and refuse.

The

Informant said that he was going to ask BRUNO to invest

$20,000 1n this venture.

on 3/9/60, the informant stated that this company

is located at Kensington and Sedgely Avenues, Philadelphia

and that BRUNO had not, as yet, invested money in this

venture.

on 3/9/60, PH 535-C advised SA ROBERT W. HOLMES

that ANGELO BRUNO recently went to Florida to attend the

uneral of HARRY (LNU,, 42 years of age, who had droppe

dead of a heart attack. The informant said that HARRY:

owned a motel or hotel, and that BRUNO had money invested

in this venture, but his name did not appear on the records.

HARRY's widow has refused to settle with BRUNO,

and there is nothing that BRUNO can do since he had no

proof of the investment. Informant added that BRUNO

was not in good health, having prostate trouble as well

as trouble "with his

insides."

CONTRACT • CITY OF

PHILADELPHIA

FOR REMOVAL OF TRASH

On 2/18/60, PH 269-C advised SA DALE M. HIESTAND

that the property which BRUNO and others were attempting

to purchase in Salem, No Jos for disposal of Philadelphia

garbage was condemned by the state of New Jerseye.

The informant believed that the State of New

Jersey purchased the property, and in view of this, the

venture to obtain a contract from the City of Philadel-

phia for removal of trash from the city via water to

- P=

COVER PAGE

983-19.588

NW 45737 DooId: 32560419 Page 9

---

## Page 10

PH 92-444

salem, No Jor collapsedo.

It is to be noted that the informant was frequently

contacted on this matter to furnish advice

to BRUNO and

his associates.

The informant pointed out

that the Magglo

Cheese Company, where he frequently meets BRUNO, 1s

in his

opinion "the headquarters for crime in the Philadelphia and

suburban areaso

The informant also noted that there was

someone at the

cheese factory on a 24-hour basis-

COVER PAGE

J03-f9580

NW 45737 DocId: 32560419

Page 10

---

