# docid-32350887

## Page 1

Date: 01/03/05

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER 104-10075-10146

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A

Released under the John

Kennedy

Rasassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note) •

ase*:NU 53199 Date

06-08-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : JMWAVE

TO : DIRECTOR

TITLE: JMWAVE CABLE RE ARRIVAL OF SOVIET PERSONNEL AND

AIRCRAFT, SOVIET CAMP AT EL SEBORUCO, PINAR DEL RIO

PROVINCE, AND STRENGTH AND CAPABILITY OF CUBAN

DEFENSES SURROUNDING GUANTANAMO.

DATE: 11/22/1963

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS : USSR PERSONNEL

JMWAVE CABLE

CUBA DEFENSES

SOVIET AIRCRAFT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/10/95

COMMENTS : JFK17 : F3: 1995.07.10.19:33:12:280028

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10075-10146

1W 53199 DocId: 32350887 Page 1

---

## Page 2

LiE HERE I

DIRECTOR

CHON

SAS

8.

DOR, ADDP, S00 6, 000S/L, DODS 4, CA 2, CA/PEG,

-A/PROP, CA/o 4,

C1/OPS,

c1/1c 2,

FI, FU D,

гі/ інт,

IN, VPS

SR 7, MN 7, 00/1, AD/CI 2,

AD/NE, AD/RR 3,

TOCS

SECRET 2208347

NOV 22 0448Z 63 IN 66897

DIR INTO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE 0$P9

INTEL TYPIC

VIA NIEXIT POUCH.

IS AMTURVY-8, CONFIRMED

BY AMTURVY-6.

THIS IS AN AMPLIFICATION OF UFG-4627.

SUBSOURCE

OF PARA 4 IS AMTURVY-2. LUIS GONZALEZ IS THE REPORTER QUOTED

IN SOURCE COMMENT, PARA 2.

FIELD COMMENTS: SOX.

PARA, 5 13

SECRETARY TO

SOLATES CONVERSATION WITH REYNALDO MARCHANTO NO INGEX.

OMAR FERNANDEZ,

MINISTER OF TRANSPORTATION.

FILEO: 22/00:42.

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FORCIGN DISSEM

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA/USSR

SUBULCT:

1.

ARRIVAL OF SOVIET PERSONNEL AND AIRCRAFT.

2.

SOVIET CAMP AT EL SEBORUCO, PINAR DEL RIO PROVINCE.

3.

STRENGTH AND CAPABILITY OF CUBAN DEFENSES SURROUNDING

GUANTANAMO,

DO1: 22 OCT - 4 NOV 63

PADA:

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (25 NOV 63)

UFG 410

SOURCE: A MINOR CUBAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL AND MEMBER OF

THE

MILITIA WHO TRAVELS EREQUENTLY IN WESTERN CUJA. PARAS 2 AND 3

ARE FROM PERSONAL OBSERVATION.

PARA 1 IS FROM A FORMER CUBAN

NAVAL OFFICER, AND PARA 4 IS FROM A SKILLED CUBAN COMMUNICATICNS

TECHNICIAN MIGSE GOVZRNHENT CHTLOYMENT GIVES HIM NORMAL ACCESS

TO INFORMATION ABOUT CUBAN COMMUNICATION NETWORKS.

NATON GI

NOCS

ECEDENCE

LEAGNS TON

DATE OSTRCUTED

BASED CRE

LUA

10880

1217

53199

DocId: 32350887 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LEGRAM INTORMATION REPORTI

DELEGRAM

CINTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

GLASARICATION - DiSSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY

SUBHCT

пролІ на TDEN

DATE DISTR

PRECEDENCE

HERBACH

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

APPRAISAL

SOURGE

" 66891

MELO REMORE NO

PHWTIVE.:

AISAL OF CONTENT IS

1. ON 4 NOV 63 THE SOVIET VESSEL "ALSOLLA" ARRIVED IN PORT

WITH ABOUT 1,200 SOVIET PASSENGERS.

2. ON 31 OCT THE SOVIET PASSENGER VESSEL "MARIYA ULYANOVA*

ARRIVED IN HABANA. AT 5:00 P.M. FIVE TRUCKS EACH TRANSPORTING

25 OR 3R PASSENGERS WHO DEBARKED FROM THE SHIP LEFT THE HARBOR

TRAVELING IN THE DIRECTION OF WAJAY (SOURCE COMMENTE LATER

A LABORER WHO WORKS ON THE HABANA DOCKS SAID THAT ABOUT 5P9

SOVIES HAD ARRIVED ABOARD THIS VESSEL. (FIELD COMMENT: ACCORDING

TO AVAILABLE INFORMATION THE SOVIET PASSENGER VESSEL "MARIYA

ULYANOVA* ARRIVED IN HABANA ON 31 OCT.)

CLASSIFICATION * DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

deer 40a0

1072200

1502020

DECREE

DO ANCY

0031000 031

ELEGRAM-INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

WW 53199 Bootd: 32350887 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

TDCS

66007

PACE

3:

ON ABOUT 22 OCT. THE SOVIET VESSEL "KIROV" ARRIVED IN

HABANA. HER CARGO INCLUDEO CRATED AIRCRAFT FOR USE AS CROP DUSTERS,

WHICH WERE DESTINED FOR THE USE OF INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE LA

REFORMA AGRARIA (INRA, NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF AGRARIAN PEFORM).

FOUR SUCH FUMIGATICN AIRCRAFT WERE TRANSPORTED BY TRAILER TRUCK

WITH INRA MARKINGS TO THE CIUDAD LIBERTAD (CAMP COLUMBIA) IN

MARIANAO, HABANA. (FVELO COMMENT: AVAILABLE INFORMATION

ADVISES THAT THE SOVIET VESSEL "KOVROV" WAS IN HABANA ON 22 OCT

AND THE CARGO VESSEL "SERGEY KIRUV WAS IM PURI ON 26 OCT.)=.

4. A SOVIET CAMP OF UNKNOWN STRENGTH WAS SITUATED APART

FROM THE CUBAN MILITARY CAMP OF SEBORUCO, SANTIACO DE LOS BANOS,

PINAR DEL RIO PROVINCE. SEVERAL POWERFUL SEARCHLIGHTS HAVE BEEN

PLACED ON THE PEAKS OF THE MOUNTAINS SPACED AT TEN TO TWELVE

KILOMETER INTERVALS SURROUNDING THE CAMP, AT NIGHT THEY APPEARED

TO BE SIGNALLING FROM ONE OESERVATION POST TO ANOTHER,

5. THE SECRETARY OF A HIGHLY PLACED CUBAN OFFICIAL SAID

THAT THE CUBAN ARMY FRONTIER GUARD AT GUANTANAMO WAS PREPARES

TO RESIST ATTACK FROM THE UNITED STATES NAVAL BASE FOR ABOUT

TWO HOURS, SINCE THAT WAS THE TIME REQUIRED FOR USE OF THE HIDDEN

WEAPONS WHICH COULD COMPLETELY DESTROY THE BASE, THE FRONTIER

GUARD WAS THE 50TH DIVISION COMPRISING 2,00 OF THE BEST TRAINED

CUBAN TROOPS.

6.

FIELD DISSONA

CINCLANT, CINGSO, ECHNAVKEYNEST, STA-C

ARON

• CONTROL:

TEND OF

SECRET

IH 53199- DdeId: 32350887

Page 4

---

