# docid-32309805

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10301-10071

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-1423-1ST NR 83

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 06/20/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

IID, ASSOC, US GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL, INDONESIA,

AIRPLANE PARTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32309805

19

Page 1

---

## Page 2

- Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DIRECTOR, FBI

FORSTEN NILITARY AND NAVAL

MATTERS - INDONESIA

Enclosed herewith are the original and four

copies of a letterhead memorandum, dated. and captioned

aS

above

The letterhead memorandum is being classified

Since it retlects Unvestigative coverage

or an orticial or the Indonesian Government 7 the unauthorized E

ilsclosure of which could be proudicial to the derense

interests of the US.

The information in the letterhead memorandum

was furnished by CSNY 3392-S to SAS DAVID R, EVANS, JR.

and

JAMES P.

MARTIN

The information in the letterhead memorandum

1s being

furnished the uro for any action they deem necessary.

The NVO source has advised that he will remain

alert for

any further information pertaining to DAVIDSON,

12-491

ALL INFORMATION CONTANEN

CLASSIFIED BY 5.668 SUD ASK

MERGEN I6 OUOLASSIFIED

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWM

OTHERWISE

3-Bureau (Encls. 5) (P)

(2-1423) (I.

IRVING DAVIDSON)

2- Washington Field

(1-105-26269)

(1. EAGERG BAVIBSON)

1-New York 97-1530

I-New York

: 1345530

(INV)

1-New

York (113-NBw)

DRE: vam

(8)

12-8-94

Clasified ly 5p. mAC)KSR

Declassify on:

12-1413

NOT RECORDED

98

JUN. 22 1962

ENCLOSURE

in)

He li

•ADTATATAI

50 JUI

12

1962

SECRETEN

30110038

DocId: 32309805

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-

2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

king

UN

ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New Yori

Nem

York

June 20,

1962

SECRET

BECKET

CONFIDEA

10D.

ISTICE

12-894

Classian by See miCkse

Declassify on:

Re :

Foreign

1ul2bary and Naval

Mastone

* Indonesia

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 sis/jese

On June 19, 1962, NY T-1, who has Purished

rolloble information in the poots

advised/chat Colonel

Prantrosastro Sanjanto,

the irdcestan Alo

Aco ashe

otteched to the Indonestan ambasey in vashingcon, Po25

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

was contacted: duzing the: treek of June 11-15%1902,

oneyirving Deviason of Dante Corporation,

306 Oaty

auliding, Hashtoston, D.O.

Daviêson,

according

to the source,

advised Benjanto]that if the Indonestan

Government would give him the contract to outein pare

CRS)

for 3*25 airplanes and P-51 aleplanes ha, Davideon,

would

to 2u that they would get an export ileense

the parte shipped to. Indonesie.

Davidson

claimod to have contacts with prominent Individuals in

che

Unbood

Scatca Government

and intanadated that ou

the

basis of chese contacta he would be able to obtain

export licenses:

CONTAMER

INFORRATION

UNOLASSIFIED

ERE

SE

ALL

NERE

NY 10-1

advised: that the Indonentan Coverment

bad buên

to procure spare parte for the above-mentioned

•alroze?t

watch no trouble.

However, they had been heving

trouble getting

export licenses to

ship this naterial to

Indoncala tron the United Stated Government.

too

vy 0-1 advised that arjant oJand not appear to be(s)

walling. to. deal with bavidson

However, the Indonesian

Government is gecting desponate for spare pante for these

types of aircraft.

It will be noted that the files of the New York

office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) reflect

that an individual known as I, Irving Davidson of Washington,

Is a registered agent for the Governments of Nicaragua

and Israel.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI.

It is che proporty 02 the Bl and 1s loaned to

your egencys 1t and its contente are not to be distributed

outside your agency.;

ENCLOSURE

D443-

SECRET

DocId: 3230

19805

Page 3

---

