# docid-32265132

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/7/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10113-10258

RECORD SERIES :

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 014348

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54756 Date:

10-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

HSCA

AUGG, ROBERT ROYCE (SR)

DATE: 05/31/1978

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

OSWALD, LEE; PRE-RUSSIAN PERIOD; MILITARY SERVICE

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/25/1995

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Box 256.

v9.1

HH 54756

DocId: 32265132

Page 1

---

## Page 2

KENNEDY

. I RECOMMEND THAT WE TELEPHONE Mr. Augg in a few weeks.

He is not up to par, obviously, but memory may improve with health.

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1. Identifying Information:

Name Robert Royce Augg, Sr:

Address 187 Madeira Ste

City/State Chillicothe, Ohio

Date of Birth

Social Security 289 30 3603

2. Physical Description:

Height

Weight

Ethnic Group

Date May 31, 1978

Place Mr. Augg's home

(614) 774 4129-h

Telephone 775 6900 - w

MOr S

Spouse

Children

Color Eyes

Hair

Special Characteristics

014348

3.

Personal History:

a.

Present Employment:

Address

Telephone

b. Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. Convictions

1.

Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name

Address

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator

Date

HH 54756 DooId:32265132 Page 2

Gand Minty

1-2-29

Form #4-B

---

## Page 3

KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Name

Robert Royce Augge SI.

Date May 31, 1978 Time 1900

Address

187 Madeira Street

Place

TEL:

613

Chillicothee Ohio

774

4129 home

775 6900 work

Interview:

Mr. Augg recalls serving in U.S.M.C. with Lee Harvey

Oswald, but not too many details. Somewhat of an effort inasmuch

as he's not feeling well today. Got out of bed this evening to speak

to me, but complained of "stomach pains" and within an hour and ten

minutes, indicated he was going back to bed. No conversationalist,

his replies were largely limited to one word answers, but he managed

to convey the following information:

He enlisted in the USMC 5-21-56. He was discharged

5-8-59. Met LHO in Atsuki (Japan) when the latter was sent there

some months after he (Augg) arrived. Housing consisted of a large

barracks divided into cubicles - six to a section and LHO "sacked"

(bunked) in his cubicle - directly over him for that matter.

Although LHO didn't talk much, he talked to Augg and

found they had something in common. IHO followed Augg through

Radar/radio training at Kessler Air Force Base in Biloxi, Mississippi,

and, like Augg, was sent directly to Atsugi as an operator..

Augg

doesn't recall what most of the guys thought of IHo, but he got along

with him. Once, he borrowed $2.00 from LHO. (About a year ago, "a guy"

Interviewer Signature

Geek

Typed Signature.

_ Jack Moriarty

Date transcribed

BY :

6 26 78

ROSS Form #4-A

HW 54756 DocId:32265132 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Augg: Interview

Page two

came to Augg's home and interviewed him relative to that publication

"Legend." Later, he received a copy in the mail and found he's men-

tioned). Says he's

read the story (Legend) describing. LHO being

thrown in the shower. He doesn't recall anything like that.

Even he didn't have much in common with Lee Harvey

Oswald- he didn't drink or play cards ("we played some poker -

not much 'cause there wasn't much money - but mostly pinochle was

our main game). If LHO had any special interest in girls, it didn't

show. His thing was reading, not girlie magazines, but heavy stuff.

Augg assumed everything was in English. He wasn't aware LHO knew

anything else.

But they were both Privates (Augg had enjoyed the PFC

promotion, but an indiscretion involving. a Captain cancelled that) and

were assigned to the same radar crew. Eight or nine men working to-

gether: 4 hours on, 8 off. Asked if this

group's nickname was

"coffee mill" he said no - that was a call letter.

Recollection of dates is vague, but he arrived in

Atsugi around May, 1957 and LHO made it there in 1957 too, but a

few

months later. Although I returned to their meeting, he couldn't

remember if LHO arrived alone or with a group. He was just another

new guy in the barracks to Augg.

LHo always went on liberty alone which wasn't signi-

ficant in itself. Several of the men did. Augg did if there wasn't

any plan including another man or group. Liberty consisted of going

to Yamada (phonetic) or Yokahama - the two nearby towns - to seek

HH 54756 Do0Id:32265132 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Augg Interview

Page three

wine and women - not necessarily in that order. He never saw LHO

on liberty, but adds he never looked for him, either. Doesn't recall

anyone ever mentioning anything about LHO on liberty.

Doesn't remember the other four men in their cubicle,

but there were regular changes anyway. Does recall LHO shooting him-

self. Knows he did because when he (Augg) arrived, there was LHO

sitting on his (Augg's) sack with a corpsman treating the arm wound.

He'd used his own "22" (Derringer pistol). It was still right there.

LHO said he shot himself. Didn't say why and Augg didn't ask -

figured like the rest, IHO just didn't want to go on maneuvers in

the Philippines. Asked if he could have wanted to remain at Atsugi

for a woman, Augg didn't know about that, but knew he resented author-

ity - all kinds and maneuvers were nothing but an exercise and just

that as far as he was concerned.. Once he and LHO were on a detail

relative to securing the area due to reports of an incoming hurricane

which put him and IHO together for a period of time during which LHO

complained bitterly about authority and those being subjected to it.

Anyway, when they took LHO to sick bay for gunshot treat-

ment, that was the last time Augg (knowingly) saw him. He adds that

he was put on 30 days mess

(duty) when they arrived at Corregidor

which

was part of the sentence from the summary (court martial) from

the incident with the Captain. John Wayne stopped by on tour and

he and several others had pictures taken with the movie star. Later,

he saw photos of wayne with his outfit and LHO was in the background

of one, butugg says he wasn't aware they were on mess at the same

time, notwithstanding. This was about 5/58 - not long after they

HH 54756 DooId:32265132 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Augg Interview

page four

arrived from Japan.

Generally, Augg described LHO as a regular man in

the outfit, inclined to be quiet, neat and clean (his sack, foot-

locker and wall locker were always in good order and located over

or alongside Augg's).

To tell the truth, if he hadn't of shot him-

self, he wouldn't of rememberd him at

all.

He never showed any signs of having any more money

than anyone else.

His defection news came as a surprise.

Never had occasion to appraise his ability as a radar

operator. Never heard any complaints in that regard and that's all

he probably would of remembered.

No information about what, if any, mail LHO received.

The name Martin Schrand sounds familiar. He vaguely

recalls the shooting on guard duty. He has no information on the

details - didn't know much then. He stood guard like everyone else,

but never had a problem. Never heard anything to link IHO with

the shooting.

Doesn't know if LHO had a camera, was any kind of a

marksman and never heard anything concerning. any effeminate boys

around any base.

Thinks he shot JFK for reasons related to Cuba. Based

this on his reading "Legend".

Anyone of the guys could of taken photos of the w-2,

but no one did. They were told it was a weather plane and let it

go at

that. Recalls two names: PFC John Radley and Cpl. Crawley."

HH 54756 DooId:32265132 Page 6

---

