# docid-32989642

## Page 1

File #:

662-110395

Serial Scope:

649- EBP

1H 55164

DocId:32989642

Page 1

---

## Page 2

= 3_

62:116395-6491

KNOT LO

EWis gIW : 9/8/75

U.S ® SENATE SELECI COMMITTEE ON INTER

GENERAL

LIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Rememo Shaheen to Mintz captd "Special Procedures

for ProCEssing SSC Requests Relating to Mail

Surveillances," dated 8/8/75. Encild is memo for

forwarding to SSC which responds to request

originally sei forth as Item A, Appendix B; Of

5/14/75 SSC request'& later amplified in let

from Mr. Ellife 6/13/75. Memos'& documentation

requested in (3) .of 6/13/75 Tec are being

delivered v/this communication. Also encla for

ur records is copy of, memo prepared for SSC..

…È."

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED..

DATE 1021000

62-116-395-649

HH 55164 DooId:32989642

Page

---

## Page 3

273-10070

HH 55164

DocId: 32989642

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Chelse

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DARE 10126/00 BY SALAMEL

HEREING UNCLASSIFIED

HH 55164 DocId: 32989642 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DIRECTOR, TOI

5/19/60

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (C)

CS6T 2541-9$

•COMPIDENCIAL SOURCE

Murale 43412935

S7 Fle 134-25101

C5SF 2070-941

COUFIDCINTAL

SOURCE - (CH)

BUFile 134-12512

File 134-2725

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Re San Francisco airtel to Bureau dated 1/24/80.

• Contact with above sources was temporarily dis

continued on 1/24/66 for security reasons involving local

changes in postal personnel.

Current inquiry noreele that,

Thile the physinal

plant and postal schadules are unchanzed from pariod of prior

contact with sources, the security risk remains.

While it is realized these sources furnished

valuable information to the Federal Government, it ie not

believed the value justifies the risk involved.

It is not

recommended that contact with sources be re-established.

Bureau (AM-RM)

(2- 134-12035)

1(25134-12572)

San

Francisco

(1 - 134-7596)

81-134-2725)

RES/ cmp

1(6)

13:1

1072421268

NOT RECORDSO

€85 MAY 23 LING

dit;

1 5516447007732989649

---

## Page 6

cottiatris

EPTONAI PORM NO. 10

MAY I9821D

ION

3010-100

Gira Gart.

REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES GO

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: M. C. Sullivan

1 ~ Ir Sullivan

1. DATE: 5/22/64

FROM : W. R. Wannall

Vi

I ~ I. R. Warnoll

I

A.

J. Jaquiss

T. E. Ruehl

Tolson

Belzoat

Mohr

Casper

Callahe.

Conrad

DeLosen

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sulliven

Tavel

Trottes

Tele. Roc-

Holmes

Gandy

SUBJECT:

CHICLET

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

COSSF 2670S&

CONFIDENTT AL SOURCE

INTERNAL SECURITI - CHINA

This is the first

evaluation of captioned program.

ORIGIN: On 118/64 San Francisco developed CSSF 2670mS*

a highi?

sensitive source, wherehy we have access to cnmunications from U. s.

destined for(hong

Jand Conmunist Chinae mis operation is hardlea

under code word ericle Most of the informaton is in (ninese ani

translations arenandled by FEI Laboratory, Translations are fürnishes

San Francisco which in turn paraphrases data md disseminates to inter-

ested field offices.

PurPose: program is deggned to Laentry inazia

constitute possible threat to U. S. SCOPE: Frogram is field wide, hous

ever, most investigations are conducted by offices covering darge Chines:

populations. TIE IN HITH OTHER PROCRANS: Infomation emanating fron tree

source reaches all areas of (chinese) investigations.

CAST. LOAD: Thirtyeight cases are presntly in pending status.

Ten, cases have been closed since 118/64, COSE source is not pais ara

investigations resulting from this program arcabsorbed sy agents curter:

honüling security mutters. PASI ON PRESENT WAKNESSES: Source operates

on secure basis.

san Irancisco is auare if seurity becomes an issue

•Bureau is to be advised immediately and operaion discontinued until

security can be guaranteed.

ADMINISTRATIVE GOTROL:

San Francisco

furnishes other divisions with information onaired from this operation.

and furnistes instructions for handling an inestigation. San Francises:

has responsibility for deciding security clasification to le placed fr

information furnished by source. Bureau is awised of results ofjali

inquiries

resulting from this operation. ALQUACIES AND CURRENCESS :

INSTRLULTONS:

Instructions regarding material furnished by source are

current and adequate:

OVER-ALL VALUE: Source makes availabelarge unlume of valvable

not otherwise available. It has identified tunty individuals in o

subscribers to "Peking Review," a Chinese Comunist-English-language

magazine and numerous subscribers

REG- 11

Enclosure

134-12512-

VER: gew

8 MAY 2SS64

1964 Добо.

Clasmfied by

6383.10

Exempt from

GDS, Category.

2÷3

56164

---

## Page 7

Memorandun to W. C. Sullivan

RE: CHICLET

CSSF 2670-S*

131012512

=?.

identified 148 persons dealing with China

nished information regarcing number of instances of collection of

scientific and technical, data from U. So by Communist China. Source

disclosed a Chinese in Communist China, formor l.s. student, Univer

sity of purdue, for first time in twelve years contacred former class

mate, an employee of Radio Corporation of America, with access to

classified information. In addition, source furnishedata regarding

fifteen individuals currently under invostigation. Source also obtaines

identity of approsimately sixty individuals in Brazil subscribers to

(Chinese Communist propaganda magazine: OPERATION OF SOURCE: Ajents

Who handie Chiprob, another sensitive operation unereby we have access

to mail emanating from Communist China, destined for Indiuiduals in

handle captioned operation. Translations of Chinese language

material furnished by source are reviened at Bureau and names are

searched for main files and/or espionage references. Because of 1cch

of identifying dato no other references are reviewed as further

mintgation, to relulTon, mill disclose bacharound dita facilitatirg

more thorough search of bureau records.

Espionage references are

reviewed

even though it may not be possible to make an immediate

identification as such data may be important for consideration by fiels.

RECCIMENDATION:

1. If you approve source will be evaluated annually and

memorandun submitted each May 15, at which time careful consideration

will be given to productivity and adequacies of administrative concroi.

Attached for approval is letter to san Francisco instructir

Chiclet operation continue to be handled inder some administrative cor-

troiwhich apply to Chipropa

In order' that. Bureau may periodically

evaluate Chiclet ard insure that its continued operation is justiries,

San Francisco will be instructed to furnish summary of significant

accomplishments for prior six-month period to reach Bureau April 15,

and

October 15.

DocId-32980612

---

## Page 8

JIT. Belmont

AT. Suilivan

R. Wannall

H.

J. Jaquiss

V.

E. Fuehi

5/25/64

SAC, San Francisco (234 2725)

Director, FBI

1734012512) 1300

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIER

DATE 10. 216100

ESST 2070m 5%

CONPIDEITTAE SOURCE

INTERITAL SECURITY -

•[CHINA

Reuriet 4/29/64.

Bureau authority gronted to continue operation captioned

source.

You are instructed to apply same administrative controi

and handling to information received from captioned source as

that which is applicasle to essm 2041+57

In addition, in order that Eureru, may periodically evala

vate captioned source and insure that its continued operation is

past sis-month period to reach Bureau by 4/15 and 10/25.

recognizes that investigation by other offices may result in

accomplishments of which you may not be cognizant chu in those

instances, of course, you will not be responsible for furnishing

information otner than that unich is available to you us the

initial recipient.. You should, of course, submit at any time

suggestions or recormendations you may have for improved handling

• of source.

You will also have the obligation. and responsibility

of immediately notifying Bureau in event security of source

becomes en issuc..

VER: gew

(8)

NOTE:

See

cover memorandum #. R. Hannall

to M.

C. Sullivan,

dated 5122/64, same caption, prepared by VER:gew.

MAILED. 2

MAY Z 5:964

COMIN-FBI

Tolson

Belmont

kohr _

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Wthd65164

DOCIdMARASADELA reGEPE UNIT

Classified-hy_

6385.

Exempt from CDS, Cateny 2 + 3

Date of Déclassification Indefinite

EsTified by 1162

---

## Page 9

CUTIONA: FORM'NO. 10

5010-101-98

•UNITED STATES GI

ERNMENT

Memorandum

EF

TO

DIRECTOR, FRI

DATE:

4/29/54

FROM

SAN FRANCISCO, (234-2725)(P)

SUBJECT:

eJar 2670-5*

CORFIDENTIAL

SOURS LET HE NORTON CONTANEO

DATE (0,2000

_BIA

- --

Rè San Francisco airtel, 1/10/64, and Bureau

letter

to San Francisco, 2/10/64, captioned

CHICLET, IS-CH•

Source has been furnishing material konday through

Friday since 1/18/64.

Pertinent data is disseminated under a

ual captain sino en cavestication degiving tree

Bureau file 105-121706

On the basis of data set out below, it is recommenced

that this source be continued in view of the valuable information

received which is not being furnished by other sources.

The following summarizes data obtained from

CSSE 2670-

from 1/8/64 through about 3/31/04:

I.

Communist Chinesel Literature and Provaganda

A.

"Peking Review," Pro-Chinese Communist, Englisn

Language l

Over 20 subscribers identified.

B. Radio Peking

Numerous

persons in contact with and seeking literature

from Radio Pelings

identified.

Miscellaneous Publications

Subscribers to following identified:

Lchina Reconstructs, " English language, pro-chinese

• Communist publication

D91-19572

Bureau (RiI) *

San Francisca

RES/1r

• (3)

Letti SF.

• REC 201

FALA

-=-

Chasia sy,

NATIn 250.

6283

Exempt from GES.

Casezery Z*3

Date oL Declassification Inaclinsio

---

## Page 10

SE 134-2725

RES/1r

L'Minzu Huabao, " (National Minorities Pictorial?

"Wen Wu," Chicom newspaper printed in Hong Kons

"Evergreen," pro-Chinese Conmunist youth magazire.

D.

China Booles and Periodicals (CBP), Bufile 105-€==-

In 2/04, 45 persons were identified as subscribing o=

renewing subscriptions to various chicom oublications throug

GUOZI SHUDIAN (International Book Store handled by CB?., a

Financial data re CBP and /GUOZI SHUDIAN obtained.

E. Hiscellaneous Requests

Individuals requesting various Chicom/publications,

etc., identified.

II.

/Chicom collection of Scientific Data From United States

A number of instances of collection of scientific ara

technical data have been reported. A list or s2 publicatiors

sent to NAIVEN SHUDIAN from the Radio Technical Commission or

Exchange of cata

• between Professor EDGAR E. HESIRUM, OR

classmate alter 12 years reportea

Classmate Is American-

educated Chineselnow a member of Joint Institute for Nuclear

Research In Chinad Ine dispatch of mechanical engineering

journals to Chinawas also reported.

III. Data Concerning subjects Under Investigation

Source has furnished information concerning the

following Subjects of Bureau Investigations:

who has been

intaccidentified as a chicomtintelligence agent operating In the US;-

INFO

ROBERT CHARLES FRIEND (Bureau file 100-393066).

-

HH 55164 DooId:32989642

Page 10

---

## Page 11

SE

134-2725

WILLIAM THOMAS VILA (Bureau file 100-405501), New

York Office Security Index subject, editor of "Marxist-Leninist

Vanguard," change of address obtained.

CHARLES TÁYLOR ADAMS (Bureau file 105-64427),

distributor of ANNA L. STRONG Newsletter.

BERNARD F. KOROTZER (Bureau fIle 100-426872) and

wife (Bureau file 100-435479).

DOROTHY FISCHER CHENG (Bureau fIle 100-380306)

travel. abroad and identity of relatives.

SIDNEY SHAPIRO (Bureau file 100-39229}, activities

and relatives.

ISIDORE NEEDLEMAN (Bureau file 100-341652).

JACK ROVINSKY, aka STANLEY BENDER (Bureau file 100-341552)

ESTHER TANNEBAUM, mother of GERAID TANNEBAUM (Bureau

file 105-36074); she departed U.S. 3/20/64 for Hong Kong.

SUSAN RATHBONE (Mrs. FRANK RATHBONE) sister of

principals in sun Ring, relatives identified.

JAMES CHAO (Bureau file 105-65268)

SCOTT NEARING (Bureau fIle 100-16842) and wife; data

re travel abroad.

BRADFORD J. LYTTLE (Bureau file 105-121706), National

Secretary of Committee for Non-violent Action, requested printed

matter, filins, etc.

JORENZO LO (Bureau file 105-119807) activities and

sympathies.

17949

CHANG Kal-shek details of scheme to extort large sums

from leader of Nationalist China revealed.

HH 55164 DooId:32989642 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SF 134-27251

RES/1r

IV.

Chinese Communist Sympathies In United States

Numerous

persons residing in United States who have

expressed sympathy for Chinese CommunistS have been identifieđ.

V. Chinese Communist Sympathizers Abroad

Set out below is data

reflecting Chinese Communist

interest or sympathy in certain Central and South Americai

countries as reported by source:

Brazill

"China Reconstructs,"about 50 subscribers identified.

"China Illustrated, 8 subscribers identified.

"China Pictorial" 2 members of Legislative Assembly

identified as

subscribers.

British Gulana

("Progressive Youth Organization' in eorgetow.

accepted

invitation

to send delegation to visitichina.!

Contact of JACOB ROVINSKY, aka (above) identified.

[Colombia

China Pictoriall 3 subscribers identified.

Chinese Communist sympathizers Identified.

Bolivia, Uruguay, Panamal-

"Chinese Communist sympathizers identified.

TPeru]

"Chinese Communist, sympathizer: identified who

attended Conference of Peoples in Havana, Cuba!

55164 DooId: 32989642

Page 12

---

## Page 13

OPTIONAL MORA NO. 10

SEATED STATES GOVER

MENT

Memoranium patt

He co sullivan !1

ЛЬЯ

FROM : W. R. Wannall

~ Belmont

• Sullivan

11/20/63

Downing

Mannall

-Ruehl

SUBJECT:

C3 2

Del=s-

Evens

Gaệc

Roses

Tere:

Tratter

Teit. Fo==

Gardy

::*=

COMMUNICATIONS FROW UNLIED STATES

TO LONG KONG AND COILUITIST CHINA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CHINA ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

*HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10 212.00

By sparine

San trancisco is in a position to apply san surveyptechnique

sam survey is dew york progran wieras:

Airmail to Hong Kong and Communist China exits U.S. througn

san mancisco, thus coverage at san trancisco would anount to national

coverage.

survey by san francisco disclosed this coverage mill involve

approximately four spocial Agents utilized full time on six doy wortueer.

A secure space is available for processing ine mail.

New York originally testedisam survey for period of two morüns

on very limited amount of mail which wes destzned for communist Chirad

New York picked up eight items indicating such strong pro-Chinese Cormunica

sentiments that further investigation was warrented.

These cases are sti

pending. New York can furnish san Irancisco with Watch list to facilitoss

screening mail.

He now U.s. is prime target of Chinese Communist intelligars:

Investigation of star

disclosed they may be working in U.s. forkchinese Comnunists

Gus: Ecil

COMMUnISE PATEY (CE) USAY

suspects

25 of being ninese. Cormun ser

agent. In september, 1903% a

made a hurried trip to London.

advised that

was in contact with

(FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE RUFO)

Son recent visit. to LorasJ

appears to be engaged in Chinese Communist intelligence operation re

sino-sourcudispute.

i reportedly maintained close

liciso..

with huma

individuals in Communist nina

•reported Jus

in contact with

1007-10

In 1962,

a chinese Communistldevected from Chinese Communist

Embassy,

siockholm, swedeno ine defector stated on more than one occasie..

was received at chinese communist, Embassy ora

immediately turned over to lilitary Attache.

"Defector had no lowledge

VER: pab: bid

Bremys froms

Chierory Zt3

R 72 BEC-411963

N605/5164 DocId: 3298964buopageras heatnadennis

J-C

---

## Page 14

Memorandum Warnall to Sullivon

Re:

COMLUNICATIONS FROM UNITED STATES

TO HONG KONG AND COLMUNIST CHINA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CHINA

of contents nor was he permitted.

to examine mail to identify sender lail

was handled with maximum security.

any additional data concerning this."

GrAde date has not been able to furt

While it is recognized proposed coverage necessitates use of

unusual amount of manpower, its potential to penetrate Chinese Communist

intelligence actiuities in U.S. reguires exploration.

If successful,

program will more than justify use of contemplated manpower.

RECOMMENDATION:

Yunt approved, san francisco will be instructed to promptly place

/coverage or mat destinea for hong song and communist china jor

period of

three months.

At end of three months san Irancisco wiri submit

recommendations re continuation.

ZEK

sit do

WH 55161 DocId: 32989642 Page 14

---

## Page 15

UPE

W. C. LulZivan

0/88/03

∞ Beinont

W. Bo Wannazl

face for four 1

exo

30222723

Нападал

Locatung

* 42n0255

'8320c

S2191.

aspe

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE /0 210/00 BY SALALM eL

Optioned source has boeg conleced by 085z 2041-0590

by

822054

S098 207F095

2223 2022S

doveloped by Sas Pronodaen 0201c0 eu 8/1/53.

accoss is coca rerasding, contacts weiween

in Communist Guing and dong bong sach carbone in tie

Unlace Denies.

trapstatioos

Lunarhod was 23 /C033656 Leaguags

This source was

operated to tachably indone an 102204 S022a6 To S-c5050 65

posalbie theest to

intesued security of United Sintea.

Upon secoint of tornalations fron 30r Laboratory,

Lan Izanoidso Jusnished ocher crisings vich andoration Zitrined

21 S2V0061g942600

Dzoau as navigod pồ reoulco of ai umosticalong

resulting ison this overacion and women vas onanined ancuatly

Scat o? Govornment to debonnine accurity and wether any administratire

changes tere necassasy.

DS, Calegory, 2%3

Claggilicd hy 6 783

fication Indefinite

Excmpt'from

Date of Declassi

SORICO MENE AVALIODIE & CIORBUGORS BROUIC OS LNCCIIECIOI

503820139

conditions in Lcamaiss Chias

aud provided & paccuse ci

Euronio and socini consisons not oxboruise ava1320i0.

ẢG & POSULE

MoCQU ERD in & rosicion

.-phe to various priedas and

to eatablina reaction o1 Eninese Comunteg

To coo identified Charosalwho hau ines saucasad is

¿tod bonsco and scssonunuly votuned to Cramnict Ching and vore.

e source provided nones at intiziunla oshes sion Grianng travelin;

Borgunist Cung

1202 20207213363 19 01 332024238 104 2209t 3ho1

Invoives Uclacd States

cidinas da pomanont residont alichs of

Unliga Stares.

13 aiso ¿acualfied scientists in indied decs

DI3 EIC01ONA1 022720U121

„.OO GH LONELLS VS! C20с014103 10I08 C4l3eS0 CBSiSS

i3e chueev0.1ag to cocain date.

saclosure

S40021092

- Z43-274034 (01102202)

улів і

134-126.15

NOT RECORDER

270 SUL 11 1963

N4 55154

---

## Page 16

Sulliva*

23 2925-94

234-3209

San plancisco igents handling this operation processed

15,603 iberg Des day fuen Elich choy escracecy

By narcel 1/2c/od fan minnoised arised lectricied herstandise

Dult, Des. castar

Csebcas jouse and Dlacod 12 Encuace 10221227.

Crovation 02/C80s 2222

depended pro? the 100422646d

012

Castore Housto

28 8 2S6 T

arancises

reactivute

chorentter mde contianed olfonte

6/15/C3

SeB 20n2.323 207494 4й aü 3a41 Sosese201 31 C904134176 2000195

aron sure tolerate as envie of durings

and

Haropean countaist es vel.

I1S7N

N01235 15 2300854e

San Franczsce

BOVISeN 0S2Y 8022-S4

attached is'letter fos

MAD FRANCIOCO INSCTUAESRE SENS

dainistratire procedures me to ho arbored 50 in c3089t108 01

S0 4542097

AS HERE LUSCITEd In SPONDERON 63 A5RE 2279-57

HH 55161 DogId: 32989642 Page 16

---

## Page 17

FD-36, (Boy. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

5/25'65

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL - REGISTERED

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECIOR, FBI L134-120351 ATTENTION: TBI LABORAIORY

'SAN FRANCISCO (134-259621 (P)

• FROM:

SAC

CSSF 2641-S

CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE - [CHI

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINIS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1026/02 BY Spasm/;

As of May 26: 1965, contact with: source will be

temporarily suspended

In view of discontinuance of Post

Office examination of first-class mail originating in Long

Kong and Mainland Chinal as

a result of the Supreme Court

decision of May 24, 19652

Bureau will be dromptly advised when arrangements

have been perfected to recontact this source.

- Bureau (AM - RM)

San Francisco

RES: 1g

(4)

. -1

Вії

!

DECLASSIFIED BY

Mer on 10/s/15

Chasificky 6263

wise 59162051

Exempt frem CDs, Envegory mas

Dure olDeclassificatön hidefinite

DEGA ELLE

MAY 27 1955

..

Approved:

i? ll' M Special Agent in Charge

Dcidl:32989642 Page 17

SEGRET

M

Lunte

Per.

---

## Page 18

SECRET

1 - Mr. Anderson

SAC, San Francisco

I-IB-66

CSor 2041-333

CS.

TITOSTIAL

SOICE - [CI)

Duer 308

700-12305

8127

IRANCISCO FILE 251-25001

SSF 26700351

COROTEM

"SOURCE - [C1]

SAIT LIMNCESCO AILS E34-27251

Promptly suboze soparate ductification letters in

ACCOrOICe WILB OSURULISACS PROLOQUEOS CONCESHiNE LUGE 20410301

and /Coer 2070-572

ILA :01g

(5)

NOTE:

Abovenientioned sources rurnagh intormation concerning

communications teent destined for long Kong and Concunisi

China CCSsr 20%0--54

Chiclet and as well as cate concerhir?

CONtESY

beiween porsons in Commnist China and long Kong and persons

in the U.S. (CSTY 2641-S*, Chiprop), Those

sources fore

ansEltuted 11105 under our current prograin.

They were

temporarily discontinued 12-7-65 due to rush of holidoy

season and re-established I 3-66.

justilication letters are

due concerning these

sources.

70050.

7K1?

| HH 55161 DocId:32989642 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Chican

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINIS UNCL

ASSIFIED

DATE 10/21 00

Page 19

DocId: 32989642

55164

---

## Page 20

1

SAC, Ean Francleco

2(131-193711

DiPector, FBI

REC 431-5344) - 7

Mi. Donahoe

Downing

Ruchi

- MI FObruary 28, 1961

SE 2472-50

- CH

nit

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Reurlet 2-13-61

DATE L0/26,00

Careful considoration has been givon to recommendations

furnished by you in relet with regard to captioned subjects

The Bureau has decided thet it is not warsanted

at this tine

to expand our presale coverage to loclude and available

contacts.among the Chinese

in canagalind Urse

The volume of translation resulting from such

additional

coverage would necessitate bureau employing at

least

one more full time craneseltra slater: Such an e

such an expense

date.

BuIcau has reviewed 33 items submittod by your office

furnished by captioned source and translated by/ Chineue-Language

MAILED 31

FEB 2 & 1961

COMM-FBI

Tolson

Parsons

Mohr

Belmont

Callatian

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone.

Rosen

Tavel

To STaTion

Tole. Fools -

Ingram -

The Bureau has no objection io your using this source

in obtaining information in specific cases such as the ones

cated in relet nor vill the Bureau object to cranslating items

available to this sousce which you consider should be

translated in order that the best interests of the Bureau.

may be served.

Howeves, when submitting items for translation,

other than those

relating to specific cases, set forth in the

cover conmunication reasons for submitting such items for

translation.

ou incicated in relet that you believe

Chinese

Communists

send propaganda into U. So Vial Canadal in order to

circumvent U.s.

regulations regarding such propaganda.

Based

on this assumption, you further conclude that this line of

-communication will

be used for espionage communications.

In

-the event you receive positive indications of such espionage

VER: ms

1

i

1951

TELETYPE UNIT

Rage

20

76283

Exempt

GD5, Carcas 283

Mite of bach

sification indetinito

---

## Page 21

Lettes to SAC, San Francisco

Re: CS SF

2471-57

/154-9844

communications furnish Bureau complete details and consideration

will be given to expanding coverage available through

captioned

source.

Do not initiate such general coverage

without first obtaining soecific Bureau authörity.

son trans

LOS SE 2079-Sa a highly confidential source of

San Francisco Officer fuznishes information regarding.

letters eranating

from Communist Chinaland destined for

individuals in U.

Majority of such information is

in Chinese Alanquage.

San Francisco furnishes Photostats

of these letters to Bureau where they are translated

Iranslations are then returned to san Francisco and

san trancisco has responsibility ci paraphrasing this

information to protect source, and furnishing information

to appropriate field offices tor additional investigation

San Francisco letter 1-19-61 advised another highly

confidential source had been developed which could furnish

-3-61 instructed San Francisco to furnish Bureau

more information re this new source (captioned subject)

and specifically indicate value of such coverage.

San Francisco

Letter 2=13-01 advised that the oresence of pro-Chinese

coveration dad canada ndicated need for guan

espionage purposes.

cases regarding individuals in Canadalwhose activities are

of interest to the bureau and these cases could receive

additional coverage through captioned source.

San Francisco

being instructed Bureau does not desire tais source be

activated in same manner asiCS SF 2279-57

The volume of

material which would require translation ould necessitate

at least one more chinese-language translator in the

Translation Section.

-83 sample items

available from captioned

source were reviewed' and it was determined after translating

these items that the information contained therein was of

no value to Bureau.

It should be noted that there is no

indication at this time that "Chinese connunists are sending

espionage communications intous. by vay orcanada

San

• Francisco being instructed

use this coverade

only

for specific cases and for submitting

those items which it

is believed will be of interest in this matter to Bureau.

IN 55164 DocId: 32989612

Fage 2t

2

"Declassifion

116210/8/00-

---

## Page 22

UNITED STATES GO TREMENT

Memorin

dum

TO

FROM

DIRECTOR

FBI

_ SAC,

SAN FRANCISCO

MPRANCISCO 234-29877

CS SF

DATE: 1/19/51

=

1::

SUBJECT:

source with

be on a continual basis.

Photostats.of this material, which is

in Chinese

characters, will be forwarded to the Bureau and it is requested

the transiations be handled in the same manner as that of

CHIPRO: (Bufile 100-394984)

Interested offices will be advised in the sane

manner as is now done with CS SF 2279-5*

San Franiiviu mili Furraro Proboutato to tho

Bureau via the attached form, upon the Bureau, approval of this

1ü 1s suggestea that she code name of CHICAN (Chinese

Communist Propaganda entering San Francisco from Canada,

used for the attachment.

For administrative purposes, a new source file

Johas been opened and the source has been given symbol number

CS SI 2471-5*

2 - Bureau (Encl.

1 - SE

PJH IS

(3)

35 123539401.)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

S UNCLASSIFIEL

HERE LONE BY SUAL

Chasilica by 6 283

MCT - 25

REG- 33.

ILA-9944.11

& JAN 23 1961

Til t. S.F.

Vilian

13.61.

NW 55161 Docta: 32989642 Page 22_

---

## Page 23

anit

Mr o

Do Donahue

Hiro

Sa

B. Donahoc

Mr.

Ruehl

ROT

SAC, San Francisco (13'-1987))

Director, 71(234-9843-1

REC- 31

CS

ST 2471-5÷

IS

• CH

2/3/61

PERSONAL ARTESSIC.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10.220/00

Reurlet 1/19/51.

Innediately advise Bureau nature of infornation available

fron captioned source.

inforuation will be sinilar to that now

Dureau

самой

see value or coverin? contacts beireen/Chinese

in

Canada and Chinoscy in United States unless a strong presumption

exists- that the naividuals an canad

are Chinese Codsiunists

to sit the wine!

VER: 452

(6)

CS ST 2279-S÷

a highly confidential source of San Irarcisci

resentst chine and destined fondividuals in U. So

furnishes intornation regarding letters enanating 1I0r

Majority

I such information is in Chinese language.

Photostats of these

San Francisco furnishes

letters" to Barrau where they ar

translated.

San Francisco

CS SF 2279-S*Jand furnishing information to appropriata fiolò

Relet advised San Francisco

has developedlan anonynous source which can furnish inforration os

U.

contacts.

ths

same fashion as information received from CS st 2272-51 describes

above.

Communist Propaganda entering San Francisco from Canada

be used

between

Tolson - indication

There is no

Mohs -

San Francisco

Parsos -being instructed to furnish nature of infornation available fron

Calm captioned source

Callahan

Conrad

and indicate why such corerage will prove of value.

DeLoach

dialone

Classified y

Rosen

Trotter

Evuns

1779

• 196₴

Category X'T

Date of eclassification Indesito

Dealis

jeen by 1167

Grindy

55164

HAIL ROOK

DocId: 32989642

Page

TELETYPE UNIT L

70/8/25-

---

## Page 24

OFTIO!ILL FORMING. 10

5010-104

UNITED STATES GO

NMENT

Memoranuum

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (134-98444)

FROM

SUBJECT:

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO 1234-2982.

CSSF 2471-

IS -

CH

DATE: 11/27/61

closed in the San Francisco Division.

) ~ Bureau (Reg.)

2 - San Francisco

- 134-9844)

105-10327)

(4)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

RIC- 127.

EX: 106

134-9814-3

17 NOV 29 1961

185

MY SĐ1 6 - 70cFd: 32999642 Paye 24

Destassil red 671157.

Brey tron 05, Came 2,7 3 13 7

Date of Declassieation Indelio

---

## Page 25

CHiPROP

HOLD

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREN IS UNCLASSIFIED

HH 55164 DooId:32989642

Page 25

---

## Page 26

• FO HON TOX4 NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVER

JENT

Memorandum

SECRET

TO

:W. C. Sullivan'se?

• DATE: 9/25/62

1 - Belmont

FROM : M. R. Waunall*,

• Sullivan

- Nannall

- DEXCallahan

CHIPROP

A C5 2279-5*

I ~ Jagiliss

ALL INFORMRATION ENTAINED

TEREINS UNCLASSIPIEL

DATE 021000 BY SALAAi

this is annual evaluation of captioned progran

"...

Tolson.

820.978

sohr.

Calls:an

Coni:!

Delicach

Evens

Malsae

Resen -

Sulliven

Tare!

Trotic:

Tele. Poc=

Hoires.

Gordy

HIH

55164

information regarding Chinese security matters

to data regarding contacts bezveen persons in Communist China) and

hong kong with persons in the Unlica states.

Most of this information

is in Chinese) and translations are handled by FBI Laboratory.

are furnished San Francisco which in turn paraphrases

the intormation and sends lt to interested rield ortices.

Ins operation as aesigned to identify individuals in U..

EJX200E:

because oi their contacts mi a can in wi

constitute a possible threat to internal security of U.S. So2z

Program is field wide; however

most investigations are condusted

DY

covering barge chinese populations and these officer have

Chinese.speaking personnel assigned. TREXlE 0a2 102

Informacion emanating from this source reacies ill areas of

investigation.

Chinese)

CASELOAD: Twenty-to cases are presently in pending

status

One hundred iventy-one cäses

have been closed in past irclve months.

Cos: source is not paid and investigations Icsulting fron this

progran are absorbed by agents currently madling security cases.

PAST OR ERASEE IAN 32276:

source operatos. on a sccure basis,

San Francisco is aare tnat if security becones in issue Burcau is

to be advisco immediately and operation discontinued until security

can then again be guaranteca.

22UINSIRLODE COOLE San Francisco

furnishes other divisions with infomation sotained from this oporati.

and also furnishes Burcau-approved instructions for handling and

investigation.

San Francisco has responsibility for deteruining

security classification to le placed on information to be furnished

by souiCe.

Bureal is advised of results of all investication resulüi

froll this operation.

Progran is cramince ammlly at SoG to determine

if changes are necessary.

Bureau instructions regarding handling matcrial turnished hy source

are current and adequate.

VER: Vhs

Declasified 167. 1569777

(8)

REG 26

100-301981 CONSCIEBY

134-5108

EXENET PUOM GENERAT

SMFICATION

DocId: 32989642

Page 26-

---

## Page 27

Memorandum for Mi.

Sullivan

RE:

CHIPROP

CSSF 2278-S*

134-5108

OLeR-ELL VANE: Source makes available a great amount

of information regarding

, conditions within Communist China,

It provides a picturc of economic and

social conditions not otherrise

available.

We In. a position to establish th

reaciion of the Chinese Conmunist people to the various policies

prograns formulated by the chinese Communist Government.

Source has

identified Chinese who haye-been educated in the United States and

subsequently returned to Conmunist China and ve have also been able

to establish the type of work in which these incividuals are engaged.

this operationness also provided us with the names of

individuals

traveling in Communist chinad

This infommation

is of particular interest to the Burcau when it involves citizens or

permanent resident aliens fion the united States.

identified

ire have also

scientists in the United states who maintain contact with

scientists in Communist Chinas

Sange are end one to best da concerning one no onese i e

based on information from this source we have developed individuals

with excellent potential as double agents.

CLARION OR SANERS:

Agents handling this operation on a daily basis process approximately

13,500 itcus and this is done within two two hour periods.

For security

reasons number of personnel engaged

in this opcration is held to a

nininun.

igents extract approximately 100 items

day for consideration

and possible additional action.

Translations of Chinese )language

maicrial furnished by source are revieved it Bureau and hames

searched for main files, or espionage references.

Because of lack

of identifying data no other references are reviewed as further

Investigation

if such is renuired, will disclose backgrotinù data

which will facilitate i more thorouch search ot buncau records.

Espionage references are revicwed even though it may not be possible

to affect in immodiate idontificution in order thai such data may

be furnishea field foi intormation.

CONDITION ACTIO:

At the present time Coot 2279-5%

is inoperative.

by airtel 4/23/62 San Fruncisco advised Restri

Merchandise Unit, U.J. Customs, San Francisco, had been Echoved

from the Old Custom House und placed in anotici locality.

The

operation of this source depends upon the restricted merchandise

Unit beins. locuted in the Old Custom House.

By Ictter

dated 5/26/62 in responso to an inquiry from the Bureau, San Francisco

SEGRET

MH 55164 DocId: 32989642

Paue 27

---

## Page 28

SECRET

Nicmorandum for Mr.

Re:

CHIPROP

134-5108

C5S: 2279-S*)

Sullivan

advised efforts were being made to restore the Restricted

Merchandise Unit to a location where captioned source could again

function.

By airtel 6/12/02 San Francisco noted operation was

still inactive because of the location of the Rostricted merchandise

Unit.

By, airtel duted 7/27/62 San Francisco advised information

had been

received that there was a strong possibility that restricted

Merchandise Unit would be restored to the Old Custom House sometime

during september, 190% Bureau is carefully following with

San Francisco.

RECOMMENDATION:

For information,

= 3 me

Hы 55161 DocId:32989642 Page 2B.

---

## Page 29

SECREE

i ~ Ruehi

EXEMPT FROM

GENERÃL, DECLASSIRIC

ATION

SOHEDULE OF

CUTIVE ORDER 31632

EXEMPTION

C.

CORY

AUTOM

San t'rancisco (234-2133)

9/14/62

directorate: 294-5059

CosT. 2229-5%8

COUPIDENIIAI SOURCE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Reurairiel 7/22/626

Prompüly aquise sinius of capuioned source.

BureCU

wishes do imon had the possibilities are for again piacing

captioned source in epercuions

Four cutention is directed in Burer 2/23/60 regardina

captioned. source.

inforation roceived jrom capiioned source per instructions

seù forth in suled 2/23/56.

(4)

ITONE:

ossI 2070-SU1s a highly confidential source

coveloped,

Dy son trancisco Offioc 8/1/56.

China cied Hong hong wich inuividuals in do so

mas furished vusc cmount of ngoroobion chich has boon of

assistance in all areas of chinese investinctions.

LOSt Of

the information furnished on this

source has not been

auailanie from any other source.

Operation of this source was mae possibic through

cooperation of cucuons employees in the reatricted toreronaire

Tait, son Ioncisco On 4/23/62 ine restricied orchondisc

Unit was physically remoued in chother location unore contiorei

Dy ai del coico 2127/02 son Eronoises

advised here was a sirong indication inci

the restricien

archmuise Unit could de reiurned do its original Locciion

sometine auring serionours 1002, and if this lukes pluce our

source can be reacüivated.

MAILED. 25.

• 5P: 81962

Tolson

Belr.rst

Hole -

Collabian.

Huture -

Hosen.

Sulliv:s..

Trolles stupi

CEP 18 1901)

HIH

55164

Docid

4454

SEP 18192

JEGRET

---

## Page 30

/...

• DEXONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVE

Memorandum

i do surdian were.

FROM :

is. B. Donahoe

SECRET

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS,UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10/1000

DATE:

9~15-61

SUBJECT:

CHIPROP

O'S ST 2279-5*

Tolson.

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Contad

DeLoach

Evans

Molone

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy

MOBILE

...

diz.

Fir.

LiT.

sullivan

Donanoe

callahan

Huel skanp

I. - Lit. Ruehl

This is semiannual evaluation of captioned progran.

ORIGIN:

san I'rancisco 8-1-56 developedCS S 2279-53, a highly

conjidential source, union since lis inception nas jurnisied

valuable information regarding Chinese security matters.

supplies data regarding contacts between persons in communist China.

and dong dong urth persons in the united siates. lost of this

in the, Chinese) language.

san trancisco jurnishes

notostaïs of Unrese language materiai iu bureun jur irunsitierui u

Transliterations are returnea to san Francisco where periineni

information is paraphrased ond sent to interestea ficiù offices

PURPOSE:

Progran is designed to identity iraividuals, particularly

in the unitea states, uno decause of their contacts with indiviauals

in Conmunist China,may constitute a threat to the internal security

of the Unitea siates.

SCOPE:

UNRRCORNED

Progran is field wide.

majorityaf investigationg

is conducted by offices

population.

nor assigned as they are located in areas having large thinese

wherein chinese-speakina personnel

I'IE IN WITH OTOR PROCHAS:

Declassified (y 116710/9/75

This progrom furnishes such a vasi amount of information

United states uno plan to depart for Communist china

Bureau has

progran uneresy particular coverage is: giver to such individuals

in order to prevent removal of inforation or material

pital to SecrET

national defense.

REC- 95

(137-5103)

CLASSIFIED BY

6z83

5K107: 100-394984 (CHIPROP EXEMPT FROM GEVERAI, DECLASSIFICATION

WW 551640 boc112a9623

SCHEDULE OF EXECUTIVE CADER-11632'

Page 30

EXEMPTION CATEGORY

FIIORETTATEN

7.3

---

## Page 31

SECRET

Lemorandun Donahoe to sullivan

He:

CHIFTOP

CIS SH 2279-5*

134-5103

CASE LOAD:

forty six cases are presently in bending status.

In past twelve montns, 109 cases nave peen closea.

CO,ST:

source is not paid.

Cases resulting from this progran

are absorbed by agents currently investigating security cases.

PAST OR PRESSIT PATESSES:

source operates on a securé basis, and san francisco

is aware if security of this operation becomes in issue Bureau is

to be advised immediately and operation auscontinued until such

time as security can again se guaranteed.

ADIINISTRATIVE CONTE OIS:

San francisco furnishes other divisions with paraphrased

information obtained from tnis operation and also furnisies

instructions to search field office indices and if recessary

continue investigation to resolve whether indiviavals are security

problems.

san francisco has responsibility to determine security

classification to be placed on information furnished by source.

results of investigations are jurnished Bureau thus keeping curecu

informed as to current status of all invesiigations resulting iro:

this program.

Progran is examined semiannually at seat of Governer:

to devermine ij changes are necessary.

san Francisco at sis-month

intervals furnishes information regarding security of source and

sunmary of signijicant accomplishments for prior six-monti period.

ADICUACY AID CURZINTESS' OF INSTPUCTIOI:

Bureau's instructions regarding handling material

furnished by source are current and adequate.

San Francisco's

instructions to field are also current and adequate.

OVER-ATI VALUE:

Program furnishes a great amount of pertinent informatior.

regarding activities within Connunist China.

It provides an

SECRET

HY 55164 DocId: 32989642 Page 31

-2-

---

## Page 32

SEGRET

Memorandun Donahoe to sullivan

Re:

CHIPROP

C'S SI 2279-5*

234-5108

accurate picture of scientijic and economic conditions and

has aisclosed the reaction of the copulation to the efforts of

Communist China to achieve certain scientific and econonic

goals.

ve have received information concerning chinese educate

in the United States uno have returned to Communist China, and

in these cases, we have been able to identiry the type of

scientific work in wiich these individuals are engaged.

During

noted a considerable increase in

regaroing aeploradle economic conazirons.

is that food is extremely difjicult to obtain, und as a result,

many Chinese are suffering from malnutrition and other maladies

resulting from lack of nutritious joods. As a result of jood

shortage, nunerous dong kong firms nave been established to

forward food pachages to individuals in Communist China Iron

Pool le in suck short cuplu in Chino Chat suci

is an individual has money, he is unable to jind jood to purchase.

This deplorable state has been verified in conmunications written

Dy arplomatic personnel uno are assigned to conmunist Chinde These

individuals uniformly detest their assignent and eagerly await

reassignment.

source jurnisnes lists of sunscripers in United states

to Chinese Conmunist magazines publisied in china. ¡e also receive

current information regarding identities, locations, and political

beliefs of do

korean prisoners of war uno decided to remain in

China.

source has identified numerous Caucasians) traveling in

Communist China, and such information in ine case of United states

citizens or permanent resident aliens in Unitea states has been

made available to state Depariment.

Bureau has been able to

identijy scientists in the United states who naintain contuct with

Unzted states educated Chinese scientists uno have returned to China.

Iron these contacts, we nave been able to establish the particular

types of scientific

furnished nones and addresses of individuals in the United States

receiving pornographic material from Corununist China and appropriate

Field offices nave been notified.

source identified a United States

citizen, a cuban who formerly resided in New York City and who is

SECRET

•3 -

HH 55164 DocId:32989642 Page 32

---

## Page 33

SEGRET

Lemorandum Donahoe to sullivan

Re:

CHIPROP

C'S ST 2279-5*

134-5108

now studying in Communist China, as

a narcotics addict in contact

with addicts residing in New fork City.

The individual in china

nópes to obtain names und addresses of individuals in Europe

froin whom narcotics may be purchased.

san Francisco at frequent

intervals reviews information furnished by source and reduces

pertinent items of interest to other Goverment agencies

to

letterhead memoranda which are furnished Bureau and subsequently

aisseminated.

CONTRI PLANED ACTIONI:

Ihis program will be continued without change.

OPIRATION OF SOURCE:

Agents nandling this operation daily process approxinaiely

13s500 firsü-cluss items,

and this is done wichin two two-our periodi.

Because of security consideration involved, number of personnel

engaged in this operation is held to absolute minirun.

ágents

extraci approximately one hundred items a day for consideration are

possible jurther action.

san Francisco furnishes field divisions

от.Ly.

material which can be considered as having potential intelligerce

value.

Transliterations of Chinese language naterial emanating

from source are reviewed at bureau,

and names are searched for wain

file or espionage references..

In view of characteristic lacis of

identijying data, no other rejerences are reuzewed as, it informaitor

requires further investigation, suci inquiry will disclose bacierora

data unici will enable us to deterinine wether Bureau records contai:

information identifiable with individual concerning whom source ics

furnished data.

main files are searched

in order that copies of

transliterations may be placed in such files.

Espionage rejerences .

are reviewed, even though it may not be possible to eifect an

immediaie identijication, in order that field will be proviced suci.

data which may or may not be identical with individuals concerning

whom source has furnished information.

RECOS JINDATION:

Procedures for handling this progran be reviewed in

six months to determine if uny changes are necessary.

TEl

WW 55164 DocId: 32989642

Page 33

4-

SECRET

---

## Page 34

Declassified 716710186155

Classidied bye

Exempt trom GDS, Critegory

Date of Declassification Indcli

• OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GO

INMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

(134-5108))

DATE: 3/11/60

FROM

SUBJECT:

M,SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (134-1132)

COS SE 2279-54

CONFIDENTIAI SOURCE

CHINESE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINS UNGLASSIFIED

DATE 10 22 00

ReBulet 2/23/60..

The following data is being furnished to the Bureau

concerning the operation of this source:

The operation of this source is secure from all

standpoints at this time.

If this security becomes an issue

at any time in the rusure,

the Bureau ill be immediately

notified and the source vill be discontinued until such time

as

its security can de guaranteed.

As the Bureau is well aware, this source furnishes a

magnitude.

oi vital intomation pertaining to acuivities within

Red China, including its economical and industrial achievemenis.

For instance, during the past six monchs, this source concinuea

to furnish information relating to U.s.

educaved uninese who have

since returned to red China and identified their current positiona

in their respective rields of science.

This source also reveals

the intimate feelings which these (Chinese scientisus have

concerning life in (China, as well as their pros and cons concernine

life and science in general, while studying and residing in the u.s.

1 true picture of life in China)today is also related by the

information which this source furnishes reflecting life in general

to be horrible due to the lack of proper food, housing, ciothes,

equipment, and the complete disregara oi a human person's

individual rights.

Source still continues to furnish up-to-date news

on the former. Korean prisoners of war (turncoats) and their true

feelings, both pro-Chinese communist and anti-Us, as well as

thei

future plans.

Source reveals the identity of their friends in

2.- Bureau (AM REG.)

1 - SF

PJH/1S

(3)

EX 130

REG- 23

:357

-!

MAR 14 1950

-SEGRET

55164 DooId: 32989642

Page 34°

---

## Page 35

(SF 134-1132)

PJH/13

SECRET

Source has furnished complete subscription lists of

Reconstructs:

and other

of nose individuals residing in the

U.s. who act as agents for

these (Chinese) communist publications.

source still continues to furnish up-to-date news

concerning american clizens who have prochinese communist

sympathies residing on the Mainland oi nina. these american

in some way are employed by the (Chinese Communist Government anc

in particular, the source was able to locaie the current

whereabouts of one (VIRGINIUS FRANK COE, New York espionage subjeci,

who has been missing since aboue (1956)

This source continues to

furniss pertinent intomations relative to the activities

and writings ofCANNA LOUISE STRONGeand her fight to have the

U.S. recognize Red China.

This suurce cuntinually furnishoo tho idcatitico sa

many U.S. citizens who have violated the U.s. passport laws by

having

actually traveled to and throughout red china.

Source continually identifies certain U.s.

scientists

who are on friendly terns with U.S. educated Chinese scientists

who have since returned to China and at the same time, makes

available certain requests which

these Chinese) scientists nake

of their scientific frienas in the U.S. In certain instances,

the Bureau has been able io develop porential double agents in

the (Chinese) security field, because of these requests made by

•these Chinese) scientists and in particular, san francisco makes

She needomen conor on lodest, sor chen

assists in evaluating the reliabilliy of double agents as in the

case of RAYMOND TO who has been approached by representatives

Of the New China. News Agency, Inton's)case, this source sas

been able to corroborate information which OM)has furnished

the Bureau.

In the counterintelligence field

io monitor correspondence to one JAMES CHAO, Who

it being pointed out that CHAO was alleged to 3=

an actual agent for the Bank of China,) which is a (Chinese)

communist front.

Considerable data has been uncovered concerning pro-

Chinese cormunist synathies on the part of U.S. Government

employees, thus causing the field and the Eureau to initiate

140 SGE cases.

•SEGRET

HH 55164 Do0Id:32989642 Page 35

---

## Page 36

(ST 1132)

TH/1s

SEGRET

..*

MH 55164

This source enables San Francisco to keep up with üne

current residences and employments of various San Francisco

securit

their anti-Us statements which they have made.

Source has uncovered the whereabouts of a selectis

service subject of the san Francisco Division, namelyCT'ONG Fing-

yips vino recently graduaied from the University of Peking altes

being missing irom the san francisco area or severa. years.

In other instances, this sounce has revealed seviral

Chinese security subjects to

ve now residing on the mainlanà of

China and attending institutions of higher

learning even

though US passports for these individuals have not been issuea.

Source has identified certain U.S. scientists who have

traveled to Moscow as veit as buropean countrtesy to attend

various scientific conterences

During

these conferences,

somo of these do. sienvious have vecome quite iriendly viza

Chinese scientists and have initiated correspondence.

Although

some of these U.S. scientists have been contacted by

the 11a12

relative to their willingness to cooperate in the double-agent

field, San Francisco has no knowledge concerning the outcome.

Source still continues to furnish pertinent information

relating to various CIA subjects which information has been

•Of the U.S. educated Chinese) scientists neve

been approached by CIN's covere operation in San Franciscolio ase

as double agents joy that (agency.)

source continually shows the techniques and pressure

put on Chinese scientists remaining in the U.s. in order to sorce

them to return to China"and worl for the notherland. In this

regard, source has given the U.s. valuable information concamins

the advancement which the Chinese communists have made in certain

scientific flelds.

Source still continues to identify numerous U.S.

citizens ho are in contact with various Hong Kong pro-Chinese

communist publishing firms.

It has also furnished correct Chinese family names,

which reflect that Chinese individuals are residing in the u.s.

fraudulently and has also furnished "coaching papers" for indiriara:

to use.

It has also furnished data as to how finances may be ser.

to (Communist China) through drops in Hong Kongland has also

fascistes

information relative to the manner in which individuals are able

leave Communist China which has been of artistance in evaluati

stories

which recent inmigrants furnish during the course of

interviews by Bureau agents.

DocId:32989642 Page 36

SECRET

---

## Page 37

(ST 134-132

PJH/IS

SEGRET.

Numerous potential security informants have been

developed due to the type of information which this source

the tent t

has furnished in san Francisco.

Uponreceipt of the translations of the Chinese material

which is Iorwarded to the bureau, as well as an evacuation nade

of the English language material, which is photostated, San

Francisco furnishes to the other field divisions only that

material which can be construed as having intelligence value.

In manyinstances, San Francisco has knowledge concerning the

identities of security subjects residing within other field

divisions and furnishes pertinent rata concerning these individuais

Numerous requests are made by certain Chinese scientists

to them certain technical books and publications in tha

scientific field which information is ulso furnished to other

a sch aromation to sto suent one to the rosa%

field divisions.

In the case of (Caucasians) traveling throughout Red

China, who may possibly be U.s. citizens, this data is also

furnished to other offices.

At this time, this source as a general rule has access:

to all mail emanating Irom fong Kong, B.C.C. and Communist Crina

destined for the U.s; however, on certain cocasions, this sourse,

due to the routing of mail by

the Post office from the airpori,

sometimes misses certain mail bags.

For the Bureau's information, san Francisco processes

approximately 13,500 first class letters a day not including

third class publications. In this connection, however, it is

noted that the processing must be done in a very limited vine,

two hours maxinum.

furthermore, in view of the existing

limitations, the quantity of material chosen for complete

translation

is necessarily limited to no more than 50 per day:

some of which as further time pernts for a closer scruting, is

later disrearded and no further action taken, other than

returning the material to the source.

SECRET

117 55161 DecId: 32989612

Dage 37

---

## Page 38

Declassified (1 11671019/75

Alice MiGin

cindar

UNITEDS

TES GOVERNMENT

• TO

DINGIOR, iNT @00-391,9012

• DATE:

9/11/50

110019

SAC, SiT MACISCO (205-2563)

CHOOSE CONTEST PROPAGMDA

THE TALIBD STATES AT

S.?1

FRALICISCO

IS

•(CHI

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEL

DATE 10/216/60

THTS GOT UNIC VITO! CONPIONS TECE ITION

RECETVER

CC.

603

TE TA 0T

TA 70EE

DISs

N70RD 7

P.SO

TOT

10

2 SOURCE TWO TED:

On 8/16/56, CS ST 2272-SEmade available correspondenor

from which the enclosed photostaus for the Bureau and New York

were made, which correspondence was addressed to the Editorial

Broadway, How York 3, New York, Jand was Irom & WANG IZE-KUO,

Pokings China

Correspondenes is seli-explanatory and is enclosed for

the infornation of the Bureau and New York.

E:

C:

C.

DENTEGORY

LATICALLY DECLASSIF

2- Bureau (100-394934) (Enco 1) (Ri.)

- New York (Enc. 1) (Info)

2 - San Francisco (205-2563)

(1 - 134-11320)

IJP:il

(5)

3330 - 53

INDEXZD-50

15%

EE SEP 10 1955°

-"j

HH 55164

DocId: 32989642

Page

38

---

## Page 39

Sex649

200

SECRET

Classified by-

3676

23

Exempt from GDS, Category-

Date of Declassification Indefinite

IW 55161 DocId:32989642 Page 39

---

## Page 40

Office i Jem.

IO

: MR. BOARDSLAN

GEEKE DISE

SIDEFOR

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

GOVERNMENT,

DAT3:

January 22, 1958

A127:37

FROM : A.

BELMONT

SURE COVERACE OF MAIL TO TAPU S 5P0

200) BLILY

On January 10, 1958,

Harry Stone) -5, Eason Representa-

&s live with the Bureau, confidentially advised that his service had

lol son t

-Nicholst

Boardman

Belmone

Mason

Mohr

Parsons

Rosen

Tamm

Nease -

Winterrowd

Tele. Room

Holloman -

determined that Soviet illegal agents all over the world, when they want a

'to "K. S. Smirnov, Central Post Office, Vladimir, U.S.S.P.." Mr. Stonelstated(S)

Met 500 that the aforementioned information was being made available to the Bureau and

the RCMB/ only.

On the basis of this information, we immediately instructed the

i

Washington Field and New York Offices to institute confidential inquiries wit

appropriate Post Office officials to determine the feasibility of covering outgoing

correspondence from the U.S. to the(U.s.s. R.) looking toward picking up a

communication dispatched to the aforementioned address.

On January 21, 1958, SAC Powers of the New York Office called

advising that his preliminary inquiries at first disclosed that such coverage

could possibly be effected at LaGuardia Airfield. Powers stated that he subsequently

received a car from the Chief Post Office Inspector who told him that he would not

be able to make such arrangements and explained that something had happened in

Washington on a similar matter and that Bureau Headquarters should take up the

1 matter with Post Office Headquarters here in Washington. The Post Office

inspector said that it did not involve our agency and because of what was going

on in Washington at the present time, he just couldn't do it on his own.

Act 6

(5)

co: 1/- Boardman

1- Belmont

5901т5..

P.41242

Page-40*

#+1 1 78-56809

+6-0318

LUATEs 20 1959

---

## Page 41

273-10070

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

10/26/00

CLASSIFED BYApALM/cly

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.6

MDR-16

DocId: 32989642

Pare

...

---

## Page 42

Stunci

MEMO TO: MR. BOARDMAN

RE: COVERAGE OF MAIL IO THE(U.S.S. R.)

and in view of the volume of material being sent from the U.S., their coverage

Jis an extensive and expensive operation. He indicated that they had to set up an

elaborate array of IBM machines to tally and tabulate the results. In addition

a complicated indexing procedure was involved, as well as complex scientific

JFK Act 6

(1) (B)

It would appear that our inquiries of the Post Office officials in

New York have flushed out a most secret operation of

The question JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

immediately arises as to whether in effecting this coverage in New York'et 6

(1) (B)

I has invaded our jurisdiction. In this regard, it is believed that they have a

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

i same time, there is an internal security objective here in which, because of

our responsibilities, we have a definite interest, namely, the identification of

(Illegal espionage agents who may be in the United States..

While recognizing

this interest, it is not believed that the Bureau should assume this coverage

because of the inheren't dangers in the sensitive nature of it, its complexity,

size and expense. It is believed that we can capitalize on this coverage by

I pointing out to CIA our internal security objectives and holding them responsible

to share their coverage with us. Of course, we are not interested in the

identities of the numerous persons in this country legitimately corresponding

abroad. The Post Office has indicated there are approximately four thousand

items of correspondence to the U.S!S. R)

eạch đay..

ACE-6

Act 6

ACTION:

| (B)

1. On the basis of our inquiries conducted in New York, we are in

a position and should, through Liaison, approachl

6

(1) (B):

11) (B)3

JER- ACt

we should get from them the details of their coverage and explain our interest in

being furnished with the results of the coverage as it might effect internal

tattersId: 32989642

Page 12

security

---

## Page 43

MEMO 'TO: MR. BOARDMAN

RE: COVERAGE OF MAIL TO THRU.S.S. R.)

2

It is believed that we can and should furnish CIA with the name

address furnished us by the British, telling CIA that we want to (S)

he dvised of any comminications going to that address. We will not explain

to them our interest in the particular address and, therefore, we will not be

violating the confidence of the British.] (5)

3. In view of the highly sensitive nature of this coverage, we will

have

to work out arrangements so that knowledge of it is strictly confined

within the Bureau.

We will handle this the same as nandie communications

intelligence cata.

of

SECRET

HW 55164 DogId: 32989642 Page 43

-3

---

## Page 44

STANDARO FORM NO. E1

Office MemorandumS EGRET

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT/

2-10

TO

MR. I. V. BOARDMANJP

WHERESHOWN OTHE taFfebruary 6, 1958

JUNE

Tolso:

FROM

:

MR. A. H. BELMONT

10/46400

CLASSIFIED BYS AALI

= !

Boardman

SUBJECT:

COVERAGE OF MAIL TO THE (U.S.S. R.)

DECLASSIFY ON:

Belmone".

Parsons

25%

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

Reference my memo of 1-27-58 advising of the briefing given our

Nease

Act 6

Secret writing has been made to a limited extent because the volume of mail has been too

humerous for the establishment of a practical system without delaying moverent of the

mail. CIA has advised that to date it has not discovered any microdots or secret writing

or information revealing evidence of Soviet intelligence operations in the United States.

but that its

(1) (B)

system of opening mail is rapidly increasing.

Jhas expressed a willingness tot 6 (1) (B)

furnish us any information obtained from this coverage which we feel would be of

interest to us.

An analysis has been made of CIA capabilities as revealed to the Liaison Agent

land it is believed we should request that CIA furnish us information of the following

the ss, beth that which has been received in the past and that which they will oltatn tod

All correspondence of a suspicious nature, such as that containing double

talk, et cetera.

2)

All correspondence indicating that the Soviets may be utilizing a hostage

situation, i.e., correspondence indicating pressure being exerted on Soviet citizens who

have close relatives in the U.s. or pressure being exerted on individuals in U.S.

3) Any information appearing in correspondence indicating weaknesses or

dissatisfaction on the part of any Soviet presently in the United States so that the Bureau

might give consideration to feasibility of approaching such individuals for defection or

double agent purposes.

105-93089-11

4)

Any information appearing in correspondence indicating Soviet control or

direction of the Cp, USA.

(APL DEM-mn. (9))

MCT: 20

02915-

CC - Messrs

/Boardman

Belmont®

Branigan

Litrento

Baumgardner JDDonóhue

Fernhapichpage 11 Turner

REG- 94

EX-135

TO FEB 2O

EGRET

---

## Page 45

SECRET

Belmont to Boardman (2-6-58)

Te: COVERAGE OF VAIL TO THEU.S.S.R.)

With regard to the above coverage, it is believed desirable that Liaison make

arrangements for us to review

(1) (B)

JEK Act 6

(1)

1B)

arrangement can be warked out with CIA in a proper fashion.

In addition to the above it is believed the following arrangements can be

effected with CLA:

1)

Place stops against names and addresses of individuals possibly presently

engaged in Soviet espionage to determine if they are in correspondence with(U.S.s.

R

This would include a check of the back traffic on these individuals also. We would,

of

course, make these stops on a highly selective basis.

Request ClA to place stops against addresses in Soviet Russia believed by the

Bureau to be mail drops or suspected mail drops. (It should be noted that we already

have placed a stop with CIA against the name and address of

JEK Act 6

/ (B)

which, according to information received from I 5,

(B)

is a drop utilized by Soviet)illegal agents all over the world arranging emergency meet

• We will, of course, continue to analyze this coverage by CIA to see that we

obtain maximum benefits.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

1) That information received from this source be hereinafter designated as

Bureau Informant 200 Records Section has advised that this informant symbol has

not been previously used.

2)

That this matter and any mail relating thereto be labeled "June" and then

filed and maintained in the Sovme) Unit, Room 1734 (the regular repository of "June"

mail) to afford maximum security to this source.

That our Liaison-Agent orally advise CIA of the type of data set forth above

that would be of interest to us and make arrangements with CIA so that we can review

• this type of information in order to select that which we feel will warrant further

investigation. Liaison should also perfect the arrangement with CIA so that on a

continuing basis we can place appropriate stons with them.

SECKET

JEK Act 6 (1) B

In view of the extreme sensitivity of this matter, a contirmatory memorandum

---

## Page 46

SEGICT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

AIL ISI INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATED TOO EYELANg

HEREN IS UNCLASSIE

13-1.

6 February 1958

1e-1

SUBJECT:

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention:(Mr. S. J. Papich)

HUNTER Report #1

Setti

June.

The intercept project that has been explained orally to!

will be referred to asl

Jin correspondencé Act 6 (1) (B)

between the Federal Bureau of Investigation and this Agency.

#1.

2. This explanatory memorandum constitutes HUNTER Report

Future disseminations will be numbered consecutively.

3. In submitting possible traces on individuals of interest to

you, reports will be submitted in the following form:

a. If the individual named in the intercept appears to be

identical with the individual of interest to you, you will be furnished

a reproduction of the exterior, and of the contents if the item has been

opened.

b. If the individual named in the intercept is only possibly

identical with the individual of interest to you, only machine run

listing of the items will be submitted. In such cases a reproduction

of the exterior and of the contents, if the item has been opened, will

be available upon request.

ELTCLODURE

4. In order to facilitate your reading of machine run entries,

there follows an explanation of the various types of replies which you

Will receive in connection with requests. A hypothetical request for

any addressee in the U.S. of mail from P. KROVAN, whose location

Is believed to be inMoscow, might result in the following reply:

REC- 94

07645

105-95089.3

10 FEB 20 1958

TW 55164 Dog/4/2989612 Page 46

EX-135

SECRET

---

## Page 47

SECRET

Date

Name In

Ref Loc

Name Out

A 57C05C3325 KROVAN, Paraskoviya (* ABB EVOSWA, Wasy! 1 KM

Ref Loc Ban Firms

This reply has the following meaning:

"A" has no present meaning. All numbers are now preceeded by

"A" only to allow for future additional classifications. None are

presently contemplated.

- "57COS'is the date of intercept, namely: "57" is the year. "C"

indicates the month. The code key for months is set out as Enclosure 1.

"05" is the day of the month. Thus, "57C05" is 5 March 1957.

The group "C3325" is our own internal filing number.

The "Name In" eatry identifies the correspondent inside the USSR.)

The asterisk in "Ref" columa indicates that KROVAN)sent the letter.

The entry in "Loc"(ation) column indicates the area or city inside /

the soviet Union from which the letter was mailed. In this case it was

mailed from the western section of Ukrainian SSR! The code key

used for this column is set out in Enclosure 2. This code key is to

be used for all items prior to 1 January 1958, on which date a 4-place

code was instituted in order to designate more precisely the localities

within the USSR.

A copy of this new code is enclosed as Enclosure 3.

The "Name Out" entry identifies the correspondent outside the

(USSR!

In both the "Name In"' and "Name Out" columns, the last or

family name is listed first.

The absence of an asterisk in the "Ref"' column after EVOSWA

indicates that she is the recipient of the letter.

The entry in the second "Loc"(ation) column indicates the state of

the U.S. (in this case, New Jersey) to which the letter was addressed.

The code key used for this column is set out in Enclosure 4. You

will note that some 3-digit entries indicate large cities within a state,

thus KO indicates New York State and KOA indicates New York City.

For your convenience an alphabetical list of the states with their code

indicator is set out in Enclosure 5.

2

HH

55164 DocId: 32989642

Page 47.

---

## Page 48

SECRET

The absence of an "X"' in the "Ban" column means that the letter

was not opened and that only the exterior is recorded in our files.

5. Since the hypotastical request was for mail from?. KROVAN)

who is believed to be located infoscow only the listing as set out

above would be furnished, since it would not appear that Paraskoviya

ideA,) located in the western section of the (Ukrainian SSR) is

It in connection with future investigation or information

otherwise avallable, you may believe that KROVAN may be identical

wich the individua. Of interest to you, you need reference only the

HUNTER report number and request the exterior photographs of

item No. A57C05C3325, which will be reproduced from the original

film and made available to you.

6. If the bypothetical request is for any mail from the (Soviet

Union to Rose ESTERSON,

who resides in Chicago, the reply might

be as follows:

Date

Name In

Ref Loc

Name Out

Ref LoC

Ban Firms

A57D23U 57D18 AYRUNINA, Vera.

(* AAA (ESTERSON, ROse)

KKB X

The difference in this listing from that previously illustrated is as follows:

"U' is our internal identifying designator. The first date is the date

of the intercept. The second date is the date of the communication

inside the letter. The "X"' under the "Ban" column indicates the letter

was opened. Again this indicator would indicate only a possible identi

fication since KKB under "Loc" indicates California. In this instance

upon request, identifying the HUNTER report-number and referencing

both A57D23U and 57D18 numbers, the outer envelopes and their con

tents will be reproduced and furnished to you.

7. Normal service of either of the above requests will be 24 hours.

In an emergency we could service the request in a few minutes.

8. If your first request had been fox KROVAN, or P. KROVAN,

or tarasKoviYa AROVAN, located in the western section of the

Ukrainian SSR, you would have initially received the photograph of

the envelope. Likewise, in the second instance, if your request had

3

-

HN 55164

DocId: 32989642

Page 48

---

## Page 49

::=

been for ESTERSON, or R. ESTERSON, or Rose ESTERSON) located

in Chicago, or Illinois, you would initially have received photographed

copies of the envelope and its contents.

In order to insure most efficient servicing of your request,

it is suggested that you submit trace requests as follows: List the

last name first with any known first and given sames or initials, and

address including state, city and street, if knowa. If an exact address

is not known, a probable state or section will be helpful but is not

required. The same would apply to theUSSR) The above should be

listed on duplicate 3 x 5 cards. If only a phonetic name is known,

various combinations of spellings would be appreciated, together

with any other data such as probable address or area.

Where an

address is known and there are individuals, other than the subject,

at this address to whom the questioned communication might be

addressed, their names should also be given. For record purposes

turn number each card as

and in order to facilitate out answers to your sequest would you in

Request No.

10. On each request will you also indicate whether the request

is for a one-time check or whether the name should be put on the

Watch List. If the latter, please indicate the duration of the Watch

List, i.e. 30, 60, 90 days, or "until cancelled". If a Watch List is

requested, you should also indicate the treatment desired when a

possible" hit is made, i. e. photograph outside only; photograph

outside and contents; photograph outside, contents, and examine for

S/W or microdots. Specifically indicate any Watch List item which

should not be opened. In this connection you may also desire to give !

us a white list of correspondents of interest to you whoare not Watch

List subjects but whose mail should not be opened in the course of

our normal openings for spot-checking for operational or intelligence

information. In some instances you may desire to indicate that you

are to be informed immediately when a hit is made and prior to the

receipt of the letter by the addressee.

Il. It is possible to make a special machine run of the names

of all correspondents either addressor, addressee, or both, from

any specific area in the (USSR) to the United States or to any specific

state or city in the U,S., or vice versa. There are various other

combinations that could be run, such as all letters mailed in Florida

either on a specific date or for any given period. If the above-listed

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

4

HW 55161 DocId: 32989612 Page 19

SECRET

---

## Page 50

or any other type of exploratory processing is desired, a presentation

of the problem will enable us to tell you immediately what we can do,

-how long it will take, and the amount of work that is involved. While

this type of service is possible, it does involve a great deal of work

and should be requested in connection with very important cases only.

FOR THE DEPUTY DRECTOR, PLANS:

JEK Act 6 (1)

Enclosures (5)

59409773

WH 55164• DocId: 32989612 Page 50

SEGRET

---

## Page 51

STANDARD FORM NO, 84

Office Memorandum

• UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT•

TO

: A. H. Belmont.

BROss : 17. A. Brarfiton

Belmont

Branigan

'Litrento.

- Schweppe

DATB: 4-21-58

Tola9n

Nichgist

Boặr oman

Belmond

/ Masoi

SURE AT TITOR ANTI 200)

- CELLE YALL INTOATION CONTAINED

DIMHEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10 210/00

(Bureau Informant 200) is the symbol number designated

Winterrowd

for information furnished by CIA to the

Bureau from its coverage

Tele. Room.

of mail going to and from the UsSh.

This designation was approvedandy.

in your memorandum to Ir. Boaraman' dated 2-6-58. That memo pointed out

the willingness of CIA to furnish us any information obtained from this

coverage which we felt would be of interist to us. That memo recommended

that Lidison effect arrangements with CIA so that we could review

information obtained from that coverage.

CIA is furnishina us with certain of the results of the

coverage

Eachk report (B)

received is labeled with a report number, for example, Hunter Report

# 1986

The reports received are reviewed in the (soume Unit. When

information fails to indicate wich section or Unit would have a

for identifiable information.

a case will be opened if deemed warranted. The objectives of trose

investigations will be the identification of persons of pro-soviet l

sympathies whose dealings with the Russians are of a security or

the identification of those individuals who

might present logical

intelliyence interesu mostage" possibilities, which could be exploited

by the soviets and the identification of any soviet) individual in the

Uos: who has indicated weakness or dissatisfaction, a situation unich

the Bureau might exploit for defection or double agent purposes.

Investigations in the field would include a check of office

indices and logical sources and informants in order to establish the

subject's background, activities,

sympathies and the strategic

character of his employment.

This

•could culminate in recommendations

for interview to clarijy certain points not established by investigation

and to determine unether une present actruities of the subject are

inimical to the best interests if the J.S..

provided available

mation does not dictate againsi

such interview and provided the

interview can be conducted without compromising bureau Informant 200,

Information from Sureau Informant 200

would be forwarded to

the field, personal atiention sal, utilizing thie following or similar

phraseology:

"Information has been received from Bureau Informant 200)

405-0284

-МЛУ

VIGOES SEREG11(/05-93099

4'S prede

# MAY: 5434050

---

## Page 52

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

Re:

BUREAU ITFORMANT 200

105-67845

a most sensitive and reliable source, indicating that John roe has been

in direet.can.cac.i wzih...oe

The contents of the l

Shoula

then be sunnarized as necessary and paraphrased.

Following the

reporting of information found in sufiles on the subject, and

instructions regarding the investigation to be conducted a paragraph

as jollows should also be added:

"You are being cautioned that infor

mation obtained from bureau Informant 200) is not to be disseminatea

outside the Bureau and should not be set forth in any investigative

reports. Information from this informant should be utilized for lead

purposes.

only You must avoid any statement concerning the scope of

the coverage in effect. in this instance and under no circunstances

is the subject or any unauthorized"person to become aware that we have.

Inoledge of his contace with a person injussia

In those instances unere an opened or closed case file an a

person mentioned in al

-is located at the Bureau.

thek Act 6 (1) (B).

]will be forwarded to the appropirate section Chief loget 6 1111B

supervisor for his information and any actionhe deems necessary.

supervisor might desire to advise the jield in the manner described

above or place a brief, paraphrased version of the

FEnto (1) (B)

the subject's main file for information purposes.

REC OMITINDAT ION:

In view of the extreme sensitivity of this source, the

knowledge of the same is to be confined to a need-to-know basis.

Therefore, within the Domestic Intelligence Division the section

'the Nationalities and Intelligence Section, the Internal

and the subversive Control. Section will be advised

of the

above procedure for their personal information.

AlI SUpErViSOrS

in the

Espionage section will also be informed of this procedure.

Bh y

MH 55164 DooId: 32989642 Page 52

---

## Page 53

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVA "ENT

Memorandum

TO

MR. A. H. BELMONT

FROM

MR. D.

E.

MOORE

Tomor

"sgon"t.

SUBJECT:

HUNTER

ESPIONAGE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE:

March 10, 1961

CC

Mr.

Parsons

Mr.

Conrad

Mr.

Belmont

Mr.

D. E. Moore

Mr.

Branigan

Mr.

W. y. Stewar

Malone -

Rosen --

eyel

Frotler.

Sor Sullen

Tele. Room -

Ingram →

Gandy

JEK

• On 3-9-61 duringta conserence on soviet Illegal. es-

pionage activities between Special Arents Panich. Litrento

Duckett and mi and

I were advised that

JEK

JEK

et 6

(1) (B)

said the laboratory is fully equipped and they would be glad

to make its facilities available to us if at any time we desire

an examination of this nature to be made in NYC and time was of

the essence and would not permit the material to be brought io

our Laboratory in mashington, D.C. We expressed our appreciation

for the offer and said that in the event we desired to utilize

their laboratory, we would contact them.

ACTION: For information.

DEM: td. (7)

13113

another incond!

JFK Act

REG- 22

(05-93089-25)

7. MAR 23

11) (B

- 49

55164

MO? 8,10

12

Pae 53

---

## Page 54

•0-148 (Pev. 10-16-70)

SECRET

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

Federal Bureau. of Investigation

March 10, 1972

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

ATTENTION: Deputy Director for Plans,

BY CIA COURIER

[J1. For your information, I am enclosing communications which may be

of interest to you.

[J2. It will be appreciated if you will have the investigation conducted

as requested in the enclosed memorandum and furnish the results.

*3. No further investigation is contemplated with regard to this mauer.

J4. You will be advised of the pestinent developments in connection Yo

with this inquiry.

1] 5. Please note change in caption of this case.

[J6. Status of case: [ Completed

Very truly yours,

GROUP 1

Excluded fron automatio

doungrading and

declassitication

Edgar Hoov

Director

2nc.

SECRET

Reference is made

to

No. 27,226,

Item

Attached

a list of types of traffic we

would like

to receive.

ENOLOSURE.

9 7M101,1972

NN 55164 DocId:32989642 Page 54

JEK Act 6 (1)KB)

JEK Adi

6 (1) (B)

Act

(1) (B)

---

## Page 55

ROUTE IN

SECRET

_LOPE

ido do Triplett

-

w. 0. Cregar

dorch 10, 1972

BE? PROJECT HUNTER

We are

in the process of reviewing the Match List

and will advise you of additions and deletions.

The following

tupes of traffic have been of assistance and continue to be of

interest to us:

current and former Soviet exchange students, visitors,

researchers and scientists.

a. Current and former Soviet official visitora.

current and former soutetinonofficial visitors whose U.s.

contacts are subversive, would be of interest to the Soviets

because of their access

to classified dote of are 3i & pogi-

thon to be of assistance to the sovietsa

Jaso exchange suudents.

researchers and persons who hove

been

in the JUSS&with American echibitions and delegations.

Current and former U.d. students and researchers in the

Ussalwho do not come under official East-lest Exchange Prograt

This does not include the short-term student tours but does

•Include inaividuals wio are in the couR jor sone time.

would, of course, like to recelue and traffic on individuals

who are there for a short time is they have been sponsored by

subversive organisations and subversive individuals of have

received special invitations or special treatment fron the

Soutets.

He have no interest in the hundreda of legitimata travelera

who visit the lussrion regular tours or go to see relatives.

We

do have an interest in travel and contacts inuolving persons on

the watch Liat; known conmunists, New Left activists, extremists

and other subversives; suspected and known espionage agents;

individuals inoun to

be of interest to the Soulets because of

therr specialized knowledge of work on classified natters;

individuals who appear to ave been compromised; and persons

who meet with Soviets connected with organizations known to

specialize in propagando of in obtaining information regarding

the

U.s.

НЯ 53164

Russian Institute,

National Council of American-Soviet Friendship

and lubrainian

extremist and New Left organizations

105-93089

metripletimento

10,095001

GROUP 1

Excluded fron autongtio

doingrading and

Doc1d:32989642

Page 55

ascLassification Fut

---

## Page 56

SEGRET

8o

Protest

and peace organisations, auch as People's Coclition

for Peace and Justice, National Peace Action Committee und

Women's Strike for Peaces

communists, Trotskyites and members of other lorrist

uennist, subuersque and ertrentst groups, such as the black

White Panthers, Black Nationalist and Liberation

PontheT fenceremos Brigade, Vencerenos Organization, Heatherner,

progressive-Labor Party, worker's Student Alliance,

Jor a democratic society, Resist, Revolutionary Union and other

New Left groups.

This would include persons sympothetic to the

(souzet union, Horth korea, North Vietnam and Red Chine. Fer East

10. (Cubans and pro-Gastro) individuals in the U.s.

21.

Trapfic to and fron Puerto Rico and the Firgin Islands)

showing anticis. or subuersque sympachies.

Contacts with the (soviet Red Cross, particularly those

nade or received by individuals.

13.

(soviet Connittee for cultural Relations with Conpatriots

Abroad) (contacts with emigres and enigre organizations in las.).

14.

Traffic between U.s, nationals and aliens in the U.s.

with individuals attending such instlutions as

the Central

Konsomal, School and Friendship University.

This would

an eutena da the tado wha have previously been in thefte

as studerts.

*NOTE: Above sent in answer to special notation on Hunter Report.

27,226, Item TRAIBAN ((105-67845-38542) reading as follows: "Your

october 1952 statement of

requirements does not

6 (1) |

B)

cover contacts such as the one rejlected in attached item. Please

advise whether you wish to see traffic from U.s. nationals or aliens

temporarily residing in the U.S. (e.g.,

foreign students) to rela-

tives or friends studying at Friendship) University or similar

institutions.

You may wish to take this opportunity to review, and

possibly revise, your above-cited requirements statement."

subsequent to 10-30-62 memo, there have been several

for other types (Items 1,2,3,12 and 14) and

requests

asked us igot

6(1) (1)(B)

we desired information on New Left and Black Nationalist fields on

1-15-69 and we advised them that we did.

inquiry regarding P.. Boxes utilized by the soviets by sovietrA

committee for cultural Relations with Compatriots Abroade

6 (1) (B)

as dated January 25, 1972, and transmittal lettena

(B)

was signed by

NH 55164

DocTa: 32989642 Page 56-

REROETI

---

## Page 57

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

•OPIIONAL FORM NO, 10

MLY 2O6S EDITION

. ROUTE IN EVILOTO

• OSA GEN. REG. NO. Y7

UNITED STATES GOVERNMEN SEGMEN

Memorandum

sr. Eo so utt tes

Aò Branigan

10/26/00

BUREAU INFORMANY 200/- PoLicy

CLASSIFED BYSALALM/CH

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X/0

Bureau Informant 200 is the symbol number

designated for information furnished on a highly conti-

Mr. Felt.

E. S.

Miller

Mr. Baker

ar. Callahan

J. Pa Lee

Mr. Cleveland _

1-Miss M. E. Triplett

Mir. Conrad

Mr. Gebhardt

• DATE:•

February 15, 1973

Mr. Jenkins

Mr. Marghall

1-Mr. Branigan

2222/Mr. Pile, E.S.

Mr. Purvis

Mr. Soyars

Mr. Walters

Tele. Room

Mr. Kinley .

Mr. Armstrong

Mr. Bowers -

Mr. Herington -

Ms. Herwig =

Mr. Mintz -

Mra. Neenan

File in

105-930897

PEEIN GION

THERE SHOWN OTT

WN 55168 Doc18732989612

BOUT IN ENVELOPL

5.80a15

1y 740m.

---

## Page 58

SECRET

Memorandum from W.

Ao

Branigan to MI. E. S. Miller

RE: BUREAU INFORMANT 2001

JEK Act

6 .(1) (B)

The Bureau has always handledl

materialJFK Act 6 (1) (B)

on a strict need-to-know basis. The material received is handled

on one desk in the Domestic Intelligence Division where it is

screened for items of possible investigative use and retention.

Material of no interest is destroyed.

material can be

JEK Act 6 (1) (8)

only transmitted to our field divisions in paraphrased form

and can only be used for investigative purposes.

The material

can never be incorporated in any communication which is intended

for dissemination outside of the Bureau. L

material that

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

is retained is kept in a Special File Room in the Records Branch

at the Identification Division Building.

Periodically CIA has

tel...

been furnished with general guidelines as to the material which

would be of special interest to our needs. For example, we are

currently interested in material concerning current and

former

•soviet exchange students, visitors, researchers, and scientists S

We are likewise interested in Americans who are in the Ussr for

an appreciable period of time.

We are interested in American

communists and other extremists who may be corresponding wit

persons in the UsSR.

He have always considered the product from

as valuable to our investigative interests. In this

connection,

it has provided us with the identities of Americans in contact

(1)

We know from highly confidential sources that a proportion oi

these students have already been recruited by one or the other

of the major Soviet Intelligence Services. We know also that

many of the exchange students will subsequently be posted to the

United States in some official capacity:(S)

JEK Act 6 (1)

has identified numerous individuals

from the United States

and from other areas of the world in

attendance at the Central Komsonol School and Friendship] University. (5)

CIA has permitted us to furnish them the names of

specific individuals in whom we have an investigative interest,

and this has been valuable in covering their activitles. the

product from

has also been valuable in identifying Soviets let 611

who plan to and later visit the United States. (5)

= 2=

SECRET

CONTINUED - OVER

NN 55161 • DotId:32989642 Page 58

---

## Page 59

CRET

Memorandun from W. A. Branigan to Mr. E, S. Miller

RE:

BUREAU INFORMANT 200

The Soviet Union is currently building up the number

trade representatives tho will be assigned in various areas

of the United States where we normally would not have coverage.

We anticipate that

would be valuable

in providingK Act 6 (1) (B

leads for any necessary coverage of these people. (S)

With the relaxation of tensions between the U. S. and

the Ussel the volume of correspondence has obviously increased.

We do not currently know what that volume is. To the best of

JEK Act 6

ACTION:

The above is submitted

for possible use by the

Acting Director for the visit of

JFK Act 6 (1

4:roP

COMFIRMES LITH Gal.

Er 2:00 PM

7015A89Y, 2-20-23

JFK Act

6

SECRET

1117

DocId: 32989642

Tage 59

---

## Page 60

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO: 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

Tolson -

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DeLoach -

Mohi --

Bishop

Memorandum ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

Mr. D: Jo Brennan,

DATE:

January 16, 1969

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

S. J: Papich

BUREAU INFORMANT 200) - Palicey

UTILIZATION OF SOURCE IN THE

NEW LEFT AND BLACK NATIONALIST FIELDS

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

ndy

Bas in

-

On January 15, 1969,1

Intelligence Agency (CIA), suggested to the Liaison Agent

that the Bureau should not overlook the utilization of the

Agency's

New Left and Black Nationalist fields:

for the development of leads in the aid

admitted the

traffic involving individuals in these

areas might be light

but that the Bureau might wish to give consideration to placing

stops on certain key personalities.

6 (1)(B)

The

for which we have given the

designation of Bureau Informant 200) essentially consists o€

It we nave some reason to believe that one of our

subject's is communicating with anybody in the (Soviet Union,

it might be worthwhile

to place a stop.

.." "We should bear in mind that this coverage is

extremely sensitive.

Act 6

(1) (B

• (1) (B

Atse

which have been established. (See Mary Triplett, extension

• 631, Soviet Section.)

ACTION:

REC 102

(105-759.29

The above information

9D)

is being directed

to. the

attention of the Internal Security Section and the Racial

Intelligence Section.

Azaliti

- C. D. Brennan

1

Go

C.

Moore

E. Triplett

Liaison

1

- S: J. Papich,

notwirrauted

SJP: cIbell-

(6)

Stops

black exfremists

this

g2D 431/69

18FEB 5

1969•

STANT

75515 P02796089642 Paye 60

---

## Page 61

én-.

OrTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1862 EDITION

"GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

1.

A.

Branigan

P. Litrenta

TO

H. A. Branigant

DATE: August 24, 1966

FROM : 1. I, Tripléte

-

S.

Papich

1o E. Triplett

Tolson -

DeLoach .

Mohr -

Wick -

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele, Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

ST

SUBJECT: BUREAU INFORMANT 2001

Act 6 (1) (B

T81222

N1121401100

Apricad

A220

Irom 8-14-65 through 8-13-66, 3028 Hunter Reports

transmitting 6071 items were received from Bureau Informant

200.

This is a slight increase (almost 3%) in number of

¿tems over the previous year.

althouan vtems were recerved on a continuous basts

the number dropped during the period of august, 1965, through

January, 1966.

This is believed to be due to the reorganization,

transfer of personnel and change in supervision over the

JEK Ad

6 (1) (B

"JEK Act

6 (1) 1B

From February, 1966, to the present, there has been

a marked increase in number of items received. The average

for the past four months has been 627 per month, whereas the

average for the same period last year was 421.

There has been

no significant change in the type of material except that more

stems are being received regarding subjects on whom the source

has not furnished information previously, necessitating more

research. The value of this material is

shown by the fact that

there was an increase of 53% in number of new cases opened on

the basis of information furnished by the source.

ApproximateLy 58o letters were

JurREsned oy Bureau InjOrmaRt 200 curing

¡tre past veinformation

This

is an

increase of approximately 9% over those written the

previous year. More than 260 new cases were opened and 96 cases

were reopened.

The majority of new cases were opened on the

basis of travel to the USSRand contacts of U.S. cituzens, Latin

Americans and Cubans) in the V.S. with individuals in the USsa.

Information was sent to the field to assist in pending investiga-

tions and for information.

In some cases, dato was extracted

from several items,

summarized and sent to the field in one com

munication under more than one caption to show relationships

between various subjects.

An analysis of information received from the source

the post year is attached.

EX-11Q

REC 5

105-73089-

78)

55161

None.

This is for your informatien SEP 12 1963

DON CH032072542 Paye 61

---

## Page 62

10-30-62

JEK ACE 6 (1) B)

After 'an extensive review of 2500

Reports since Our FK Act 6 (1) 0

last memo captioned as above and dated 8/21/02, we have made the

following observations in the interest of economy in regard to Project

Hunter as it related to our Bureau and your Agency to insure time will

not be unnecessarily ixpended by our Bureau processing unwanted

material and to save your Agency the expense involved in the preparation

of such material.

I Traffio Whlch Holds No Interest:

1. (Soviet-bloc) immigrants desiring to repatriate to USSR. • These

people are interviewed by INS and INS refers anything of interast to us.

severaL mundred people a year visit the USSR while on tour abroad as

well as(Soviets) returning to visit relatives. We, of course, have an

Interest in such travel involving people on the clA watch list, known

Conmunist Party members, and suspected intelligence agents.

3.

U. S. professors in Academic Research corresponding with each other.

It is not Ilkely 11 U. S. professor is passing any data he would

Identify

himself at the same time.

II Traffic of Specific Interest:

he 1'1 date so (uda) Mala Borvos to Idontiry pro-daetro followers 1a

Li. date le u

niversity in Moscori (Cubans) In contact with (Cubans attending Friendshi

A11 material emanating from Puerto Rico of an Anti-T. S. nature

and pro-Soviet.

Data re U. So peace groups going to (fussia) and while 1a (Rusala,)

5.

Data indicating death of any U. S. Communist abroad.

6.

Data re

7.

Any data on.

LO2AEOT

89642

Page 62.

---

## Page 63

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

8.

Who were former students in dioscow,

NW 55164 DogId:32989642 Page 63

---

## Page 64

= UNPRED STATES GOVER.

Memorandum

TO

Sullivan

wess

DATE:

6/9/61

FROM

: Tier, I. A. Branigand

SUBJECT; (BURIAY INTORIANI 200) POLICI

-W. C. Sullivan

W.

A. Branigan

I - W. D. Stewart

Tolson

Belmont .

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans.

Malone

Rosen .

Sullivan.

Tavel .

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy

matter of interest

The purpose of this memo is to bring to your attentions

the increase in the volume of

Act 6 (1) 1B

the additional administrative controls insuciuted (1

to cope with increased

volume, and lastly the desirable type of infor.-

mation Bureau Informant 200, has been continually furnishing..

(Bureau Informant 200) is

- 11B.

JEK ACE 6 (1) 1E

nformant originated in 1158 and furnished 113

2150• As 0f 0/0/01, vie have received

many reports transmit:

as many as twelvs

viens, und some renores

transmitting up to twenty items. My memo to

12/5/60 revealed as of that date 3425 Flitter

(1) (B

Reports had been received.

You may be interested to learn that in the

last seven months we have receivea 1680|

or almost 50%6 (11 (B)

of the number received from 2/58 until 12/60. On 3/9/61 C'Il advised

representatives of this bureau that it nod recently established a

Inboratory in New York City in connection with this project. This

JEK. Act 61

A memo W. D. Stewart to W. A. Branigon 2/21/61 re captioned

supervisor to destroy contents of a

nermitting the interested

value after checking the appropriate

Block on the

is found to be of no

stamp indicatina his

reason for destroying some.

of necessary,

at a later date repro

duce any Hunter Report.

from Mr. Belmont 3/3/61 to All super-/:

visors of the Espionage,

Nationalities Intelligence,

Internal security

and subversive Control Sections

instructed all recipients re use of

above-mentioned stans.

In addition, above memo 2R1/61 received approval

for a proceedure whereby

would be screened for destruction

by substantative dest handling captioned matter prior to sending these

reports to Records section for handling to préclude any indexing or

961 272

205-93089)

We 19896131 Pase 64X 101

---

## Page 65

Memo Branigan to sullivan

BUREAU INFORMANT 200

POLICI

105-93089

A great.

deal of material furnished by the informant relates

directly to contacts and activities of individuals who are of current

interest: to us such as top level communists as William z. Foster and

Elizabeth Gurley flynn and such espionage subjects as the laurice Hyman

Halperins, who were identified by Elizabeih Bentley, wno stated Maurice

Halperin was 'a source of Nathan Gregory Silvermaster.

The Halperins

are now in russia, Pertinent information relating to individuals of

current interest is passed to the field for its intelligence interest.

In addition, material is received which reveals the (soviet sympathies

of some, U.S. citizens and also indicates certain arrangements with the

(Soviets)which may be considered against the best interests of the

U.S. Government.

The larger amount of data received tends to confirm

information already mown and it does not require in itself that the

field be advised of same.

The informant furnished two specific

reflecting

that two different individuals were (sending post cards to

usSE with

another post card deliberately and carefully sealed to the first post

card.

In a case opened entitled "y. Podgoretshy, IS -R" (105-98499);

the informant avised that soth of the post cards forwarded by

Podgoretsky contained a clandestine message on the inner side of the

back post card. Investigations concerning James D. Cawthon, the.

former individual mentioned, and Podgoretsky are still in progress.

below:.

Iypical data furnished by Burecu Informant 200) are set out

Information concerning travel plans abroad of several

подты

he could distribute same to Americans in various cities here toimprove

cerning numerous th a as cuten then with the s tata con

Khrushcheuland expressed their sympathies toward soviet way of life;

namely, Donald A. Sawtelle (105-15570), a New York SI Subject. Data

revealing a contact by John Peier Grothe (62-105833) with the Minister

of culture in moscau requesting this individual to bromise the Moiseyou

dancers would perform in U.s. and aiso indicating to him he expected

visit russi again in the near juture. Grothe aduisea him that last yeor

-2 -

HH 55164 DogId:32989612 Page 65

---

## Page 66

Memo Branigan to sullivan

Re:

BUREAU INFORMANT 200

POLICY

105-93089

he worked for Senator

Hubert Humphrey, as a foreign relations advisor

and did a lot of work in field of disarmament.

He further indicated,

ne was.doing graduate work at stanford but sizll served as a consultani

to senator dumohrey Bufiles reveal one Victoria Ivanova sanãor

(105-58070), a Russian born alien and her husband (John Sandor, who is

presently employed as an'attorney in the office ofthe Attorney General,

State of Minnesota, are close friends of Orville Freeman, former

Governor of minnesota and present secretary of Agriculture, Washington,

The informant advised recently in regaro to Victoria sandor

that she aduised her mother in Ussh she expected to move to washington

where her hushand will work for secretary of Agriculture, Ireenan; that

she and her husband will be friends of Ireeman and President Kennedy:

and that she hopes through these connections she will be able to obtain

a necessary permit for her mother to come to the U.S.

She indicated

she will go to che president,

to his wife, or to whomever it will be

necessary to achieve this goal.

Information received from Bureau Informant 200) cannot be

aisseminated directly ast might tend to reveal this highly confidential

source; however, the information is used to great advantage by the

Bureau for its oun intelligence at the bureau and in the field.

Investi

gations are opened on data furnished as above and if we can ascertain

confirmation. of same data from our sources in the field we can then

ACTEON:

None, above data are furnished solely for your information.

WAR

.&

•3=

NH 55161 DocId: 32989642 Page 66

---

## Page 67

CATONAL FORM NO. 10

ÜNTIED STATES GOVERN._ NT

Memörandum

SECRET

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

MR: W. C. SULLIVAN

DATE:

8/21/61

A. BRANIGAN

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach _

Evans -

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Roor

Ingram/

BUREAU INFORMANT 200

CLASSIFIED BYSOLACMC

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X I

POLICY

h'aples

Reference is made to memorandum Stewart to Branigan

an interested

Act 6

(1) (B)

JEK Act 6'111iBi

On 8/17/61 Special Arents(Sam I. Panich. I D. Stewarto

set

The observations

(1) (B)

(1) (B)

out on pages 2, 3,

and 4 of the referenced

memorandun were

individually discussed with the

They appearedt 6 (1) (BI

very pleased with our analysis of the

material received andict 6 (1) (B)

people.

Attached is a blind memo for CIA setting forth material in

which we have no interest

and a specific interest.

In order to better understand the coverage of (Bureau

Informant 200. the writer specifically asked the following questions

and received the following answers:

1.. Is the informant covering all traffic or selected

traffic?

Answer: Approximately 500,000 items pass to and from

each month. Approximately 200,000 items are screened..

The other

300,000 escape screening because they pass through at hours when

no

one is on duty.

Of the 200,000 items screened, approximately

1,200 items receive "close" scrutiny.

2.. What portion of the informant's coverage are we

getting

Answer:

Of the

Pederan apronerates 250;

1,200 items closely scrutinized,

monthly

(WDS: ct

Enclosure

(105-93089)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

BEG 52

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

85 AUG 29.1961

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

SECKET

die

6 15SEPodera 19949612

Page 67

---

## Page 68

SCOTT

Memorandum Branigan to Sullivan

Re:

BUREAU INFORMANT 200

POLICY

105-93089

Why are we getting speczilc type trailic, 1.e

exchange students, Vladimir Kazakevich, material (Kazakevich) is

a prolific letter writer now in (USSR who was formerly a pro-

Soviet economist-living in the U.s., and Intourist traffi

(general data re arrangements for Americans traveling to (Russia)! 5,

Answer: Exchange Student traffic ("Mother writes to

son who is a soviet-bloc exchange student in U.s. and sends family

love" and vice versa.

Letters are synopsized and are of no interest

as such, has been

sent because ClA 1s surveying a certain area 0i

traffic.

Wr. Hunt advised

they derived no intelligence benefit

from their survey and was interested to learn of our similar results.

In regard to(Kazakevich, CIA develops a great deal of foreign

intelligence data from material he transmits and receives. Mr. Hunt

felt material would be of interest to us. He was advised we-have

derived nothina to date from this material as we are soley intereste

in the individuals involved and in order to protect this highly

sensitive informant we do not route the informant's material around for

general intelligence interest.

ur. Hunt was advised all of the

informant's material is handled on a strictly need-to-know basis

and the matertal retained is under girict control. a very fias

pleased in regard to our secure precautions as only

CIA people have any knowledge of

In regard. toK Act o 11)

Intourist traffic, ur. Hunt advised we were furnished same because

one of the individuals associated with an Intourist agency was

suspected of being a (Soviet intelligence contact. Mr. Hunt) agreed

with our observation that all Americans traveling abrcad

had to obtain a passport from State Department, such travel to

the USSR being permissible, we could obtain any necessary cata

re an Individual from State. (S)

In regard to item number three above, it was agreed

we would not receive any more

Vladimir Kazakevich (who alone provided 300 items in 1960) anc

•In addition "holiday greeting" type traffic

will not be furnished. Specific exceptions to the above-mentioned

traffic we will not receive are'set out in our blind memorandum to

CIA and were set out

in the referenced

memorandum on pages 2 and 3.(9

-2-

NN 55164 DOCId:32989642 Page 68

---

## Page 69

SLUREN

Memorandum Branigan to Sullivan

Re:

BUREAU INFORMANT 200

POLICY

105-93089

The matter of receipt of illegible material was

also discussed and it was pointed out tour. Hunt no matter how

important the

contents may be if the name and address of the u.s.

addressee or addressor 1s

illegible the material is of no value.

It was specifically requested more legible material be furnished

and, if it was obvious reproduction would be poor, we would

appreciate it if U.S. person's name and address could be printed

or written out. Mr. Hunt advised they were aware of reproduction

problem and stated Xerox equipment was to be installed in the

near future. This, he believed, would help the problem.

In regara to the ClA watch List, approximately 535

names now appear on this list which is

supplemented each monday

morning. (ur. Hunt requested

we specifically place on this list

the individuals on whom we want coverage even though we are

presently receiving items re these persons. If their names

appear on the Watch List, we will possibly get closer coverage.

Attached with the blind

memorandum.for Clals a list

• of individuals

presently on the Watch List which ir.

Hunt) requested. Interested

supervisors will be advised and additional names of Communist Party

members now in(Soviet-bloc) countries will be furnished CIA via our

Liaison Agent®

In regard to CIA's sampling of certain types of traffic .

and furnishing same

to us, Mr. Hunt) was requested to advise our

Liaison Agent what it was

doing and after a period of six months

we would furnish the results of our observations which would dictate

whether we would continue to receive this new type material.

Mr. Hunt) desired that in regard to any correspondence

with CTA wherein a reference is made to al

or the JEK Act 6 (1) (Bo

an any way that the letter be sent via Liaison as

As pointed out in the referenced memorandum, the

need for this conference was to insure the Bureau Informant 200)

Program will continue to operate under maximum econemy anc

efficiency to the mutual interests of CIA and the Bureau.

It is

believed

as a result of the above conference that the Hunter material

now received will be reduced approximately 50%.

-3-

HH 55164 DocId: 32989642

Page 69

---

## Page 70

Memorandum Branigan to Sullivan

Re:

BUREAU INFORMANT 200

- POLICY.

105-93089

At the conclusion of the conference, Mr. Hunt)

and his aides

who were obviously pleased with our

observations

requested

SA Stewar similar conference in approximately six months.

will prepare an appropriate tickler in this regard

and set

same for 2/18/62, at

which time a suitable memo will be

prepared indicating observations which might be discussed and requesting

permission to attend such a conference.

RECOMMENDATION:

That tA thee copies A the attached elto memorandum

be furnished to CIA by our Liaison Agent ás a guide to the

Act 6 (1) (B

traffic in which we have an interest.

• SEGREA

TW 55164 DocId: 32989642 Page 70

---

## Page 71

SECRET

1 ÷ Stewart

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE...

RE:

August 21, 1951

10/2600

CLASSIFIED BYSOZALMCOR

KAct 6 11) (B)

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

After an extensive review of 5600

transmitting innumerable items, we have made

the following

observations in the interest of economy in regard to

as it relates to our Bureau and your Agency

to insure time will not be unnecessarily expended by our

Bureau processing unwanted material and to save your Agency

the expense of furnishing our Bureau this unwanted material.

I TRAFFIC WHICH HOLDS NO INTEREST:

1 - (Intourist) traffic (general data congerning arrangements

for Americans traveling to (Russia) Such travel Is

pernissible and arrangements have been previously made

through state Departnent for a passport. (S

'JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

JEK Act 6 i1) (B)

• Personal type letters, which nave been translated intr

English, between the United States relatives, sweethearts,

stamp collectors, and their Russian) counterparts.

3 " Letters to and irom Exchange Students, which again

are synopsized in unglish and reveal

that "Mother

writes to son who is an Exchange Student in the

United States and sends family's love," and vice versa. (5)

4 - No "holiday greeting" type traffic desired.

In regard to the above four catacories. your

Agency's laboratory processes

us its observations concerning any me of these appearing in

the traffic.

II EXCEPTIONS TO THE ABOVE FOUR CATEGORIES:

A.

Any traific in the above-mentioned nondesired categories

wherein the translator feels there is some intelligence

significance. Numerous letters have the translator's

JFK.

ct 6

(1) (B)

JEK Act 6

(1)(B)

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

"Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans.

Malone -

(5)

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter -

PaPa: DocId: 32989642

Page 71

SECRET

- 30

---

## Page 72

Project Hunter

comments indicating your Agency's Hatch List shows

the person is a suspected intelligence agent or that

text of the letter indicates some type of code,,

et cetera.

B. Any traffic wherein it is revealed United States

addresses or addressor is a United States Government

employee or is employed in a sensitive industry, 1.e.,

-missile field.

C. Any traffic wherein we have an obvious intelligence

Interest such as

become, a citizen or wherein

sympathies.

III. WE ARE. SPECIFICALLY INTERESTED IN:

1 a

A11 traffic relating to top comnists traveling

abroad which we have been getting regularly and fron

which we have been extracting a great deal 0f

intelligence data such as Mary Lou Patterson,

, the

Pittnans, William 2. Foster, Claude Lightfoot.

Elizagets Gurley Fignal et detera.

1-2.

A11 traffic on specific individuals we place on

the Watch List.

3 -

Al1 traffic on special individuals such as NSA

interiors delian cantaton dartin and sera serguson

4 c

tratiic of a clandestine type such as that

In the f. Podgoretsky) case.

IV

If possible, it would be appreciated if an effort

could be made to furnish as legible a copy of Hunter material

02=

EGREY

PH 55164 DocId: 32989642 Page 72

---

## Page 73

SCOREY

Project Hunter

83

possible. In parcicular, if It is evident paper from

which copy is to be made 19

not type to give a good

reproductio, it would be appreciated if a notation

concerning name and address of United States recipient

or sender could be made from original.

intonation or interest is received but untied states

enema pace can ta tatinguishable and

Y LIST OF PERSON DESIRED ON THE WATCH LIST AS OF AUEUST 18. 1961

NAVE

BERLAND, MARK V.

FOSTER, WILLIAM 7.

HASKELL, ROY

KAHN, ALPERT, EUGENE

KOTOLENKO, V. P..

PECHTER, BERNARD DAYID

ROBERTS, HOLLAND DENITTE

SUCHOBECK, ALEX (NMI)

ADDRESS

Flat 15 Lasvinskaya St. 11

Perm 24, USSR

Apartment 6B, 1040 Nelson

Avenue, Bronx, New York

12 Crown Street

Brooklyn, New York

I30k henno Way,

GLen Ellen, CalILornia

General P. 0.,

Klav I, USSR

2161 Shattuck Avenue

Berkeley, California

383 Hadonia, Palo Alto,

California.

During Week

Days - 787 Castro Street,

San Francisco, California

1315 Lincoln Avenue,

Pacifio Grove, California

•CRI

KH 55161 DogId: 32989642 Page 73

---

## Page 74

SCONE

Project Hunter

TRILUPAITIENE, ALDONA

TRILUPAITIS, LEONAS

(also card on

Leonas Algeda)

131/14-1, Antakaenio Street

Vilnius, Lithuani:

Apartment 1B, 104 Irvington

street, s.i.,

rashington, d.c.

- SECRET

HW 55161 DogId: 32989642 Page 74

---

## Page 75

¿ = UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

W. C. Sullivanfi

DATE:

FROM

I. K.

Branigan

SUBJECT:

BUNBAU INFORMANT 200] - POLICY

11/2/62

Sullivan

Branigan

Stewart

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

Casper.

Callchan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Malone

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

Act 6

(B

CIA advised that its

coverage

TUER A8E 8 (13(B)

This concentratedEK Act 6 (1) (B

coverage is for

agent traffic.

the purpose of determining if there. is any illegal

(1) (B)

to be reduced until atter the Christmas mail rush has subsided.

JEK Act

111(B)

They are very cooperative in that they are willing to focus 11(B1

their attention on any particular phase of coverage we suggest for

our own benefit.

For CIA's interest we furnished them a copy of the

attached memorandum of our analysis of typical information furnished

by (Bureau Informant 200) of interest to us.

ACTION:

None. Above data furnished for your information.

NDS

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

IDS: jes

(4)

105-93089

Enclosure

OSURE

Fit.

65 NOV S

1962

55164

DocId: 32989642

Page 75

(105-

43089

NOV 5

1962

EX-118

---

## Page 76

DAINSEL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERN • ENT

Memorandum

I: 33872790305

Usingaterer.

-stewart

TO

Wo Co Sulliva

DATE: 8-25-61

To

A.

Bratitan

Tolson

Belmont

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

SUBJECT:

BURIAT INFORMANI 200-POLICY

on 8-17-61, a conference took place between Special

Agents Sam Jo Papich, to D. Stewart.

regard to Bureaù Informant 200, As' a result, l

and representatives of CIA in

was recently Act 6. (1)(B)

á guide as to Bureau Informani material ve desire.

This guide was prepared after discussion with several members

of the Espionage, Nationalities Intelligence,

subversive Control,

and Internal Security sections.

In addition,

was furnished Act 6 (1) (B)

a current list of names previouely placed on the

_Haten List Act 6 (1) (B)

by us.

In this regara, the CIA representative advised that,

although we are getting coverage on certain indiviavals, to

insure

we get complete coverage on each individual we desire it on,

they should be specifically added to the latch list. This watch

hast is revised each Monday; therefore, any person not included

on this list at present can be included by forwarding a routing

ship anytime to l. Do stewart, room 044 aB,bearing the individual's

name, nis address in U.S., and indicating the period coverage is

desired. A list will be compiled bu tr. stewart weeklu and furnishea

to ClA via liaison.

JEK ACt.E (1) (B)

JFK...

Act 6 (1) (1

JFK-Act

RECOLMENDATION:

REC-47(6--2:089-57

That the above information

be discussed, at the next

conference neid by the espionage, Nationstities Intelligence,

sioversive Control, and the Internal security sections and that

all agents in the above-mentioned sectrons be reminded to furnish

r. steward a copy of any letter prepared from Bureau. Informant 200

material to

assist him in continually evaluating the progrom.

(mos) wit

5-

(205-93089)

99

4y55244n DgsId;22989642 Paye 76

elim Chines Com

---

## Page 77

10/30/62

RE: / BURBAU INFORMANT 200)

Irpical data furnished by Bureau Informant 2002

Information indicating travel plans to the USSR of numerou:

Communist Party subjects; data indicating pro-Soviet

soviet courier; data indicating the existence of particular Russian

sympathies of

Leelings, and Iorme

recent national security Agency (NSA, delectors; data revealing U.

Individuals infusS are in contact with official establishments and/or

Halperins, now residing in/ Cuba, and of their son(Davia Carlos halperin,

a medical student at the University of Chicago and data indicatin:

current whereabouts of Carl and Alice Jerome, 'Communist Party subjects

and data relating to the current whereabouts of (James M. McMillin, JI..

Data of Special -Interest:

During the present Cuban crisis, we have identified

pro-castro sympathizers in U.

S. through their contacts with Cubans

at Friendship University, Moscow, and have been alerted to their activity.

We have learned that (Russian) school authorities are greatly displeased

with Huldah S. Clark,

daughter of Negro Communist Party subject

Willlam Clark oI Newark, because of her behavior.

she too evidencec

liscontentment there. Her educational trip to USSR served as Cl

propaganda:

We were alerted to Maurice Halperins intended return to

USSo, We have been advisad of (illlo Mae Ioslich) Intended visit to

are developing U.s.

contacts. of

helen hagen-fozner, UN employee discharged in 1950's for failure to

answer questions re possible espionage involvements through

correspondence of her with relatives in Russia,

(105-93089-54)

IN 55164 DocId:32989642 Page 77

---

## Page 78

believed to be a target for contact by (KGBand another is the

son-in-law of the woman in whose apartment Viktor krauchenko nad

in the U.S.:

Although much material regarding communists and the

Communist Party (CP) is also received from other sources, the

informant continues to furnish additional details and new infor

nation regaraing changes of employment and residence, travel.

contacts and actruities. Data regarding attempts of the dubois.

clubs to expand nationally and internationally was furnished in

items on (Paula Garb) International secretary, who went to the

USSR) to marry a Soviet) if he can obtain a divorce. Items

pertaining to mary you camacho (daughter of CP leader told of

the birth of her daughter, reconciliation with her Cuban) husband,

plans to go to cuba to live and that one of her friends,

Security Indes subject, was in Ghana when she was believed to

be in the U.s.

Data is received regarding travel and

contacts of lary

Rakocry, (w1d0w of suspected esponage agent, uno attended the

Higher Party School of the Ukraine in Kiev,

USS, Information

continues. to be received regarding her son, Andrew Rakoczy, who

was allegeary studying ballet out actually attended the above

This has included his contacis,

change of employment and residence and racial, poverty and

Progressive Labor Party activities in Chicago.

taste now at this school has been identified a redate sarang

son of canadian communists. The source has also aduised that

(Irene Rakoczy)and three unidentified individuals plan to study

, dancing in kleu this summer (possibly at the above-mentioned school

which maintains a special section to combine lessons in dancing

and indoctrination, and that Bernard Irancis Taylor (son of Cr

son of the alien

oafe of a u.s. chtrzen residing in state of Washington, i:

attending school in Kiev. He is believed to be from the U.S. or

Canada.

Additional information is received regarding persons

involved in the peace movements, anti-Vietnam demonstrations,

"teach-ins" (one has been in contact with

Items reveal

names of U.S. contacts with members of such (Soviet) propaganda

organizations as the soviet Peace Committee,

Soviet Homen's

committee, committee for return to the Homeland and others.

WH 55161 DocId:32989642 Page 78

• 3 -

---

## Page 79

Sentiac:

"'ASICIN FORM NO. 10

"UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: N. C. Sulliva

FROM

SUBJECT: (SURAT INFORMANT 200) - POLICY

DATE:

March 27,

1963

1

- Mr. Belmont

MY.

Sullivan

MI.

Wannall

MI.

Branigan

MT.

Stewart 3

• Liaison

1 - Mr. Harrely

Tolson

Belmont

Moht -

Casper

Callohan.

Contad

*DeLoach

Eyans

Gale -

noger

Sulliva

Tavel.

Trotter

Tele. Room

Homes -

Gandy -

JEK Act 6 (1)

During the period the coverage was in effect, we received

94 items and opened 15 new cases based on the material.

could conceivably lead us to these drops in the future. We have

JEK ACt 6

we should do so in this instance.

ACTION:

summary of the action taken by us as a result of the

If you approve, the attached memorandum containine Nots:

JEK-Act

1) (B)

Enclosure

105-93089 /

=X-102

• C

/ L:CLOSURE

16ZAPRA: 196812

Page 79

22084-60660

17 APR 3 1903

multics

test Cine

129k3

HE RA

---

## Page 80

=

CLASSIFIED BYSDZ

DECLASSIFY ON:

25X

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERFIN IS UNCLASSIRIED EXCEPT

SHOWN O IriERWISE.

INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM BURIAU INFORMANT 200)

Data received regarding the following current and

former double agents

and sources has been utilized to evcluate

their reliability: (Luke Chia Liu Yuan; Pedro Celestino Jimenez

Gordon Philip Polley; Hugo Rodriguez-Ranirez; Julius (S)

Shell; NH 445-S; Phyllis 0ja; Samuel Jajje; NI 2911-S; NY 3556-S;

sE 6562-5; ur and uis. George l. Atkins; and Boris L. CoLesoUdS"

The field has been advised of individuals in close contact witi

soviets) with the request to consider for development as sources..

Information regarding (Soviet) exchange students. (eight

are (IGB) agents) includes names of associates, activities,

travel,

types of material requested to obtain and individuals with wom

they continue to maintain contact after they leave the U.S.

similar information is furnished regarding other (Soviets) in the

U.S.

as a result of the exchange program.

MateriaL 13 a1s0

furnished regarding U.S. citizens who travel to the USSR as part

of the exchange.

Dato regarding current and former U.S. exchange students

¿former exchange suudent has been in contact with a suspected

espionage agent regarding (Ralph Hatlaw (according to (Nosenko), the

KGB)was to attempt recruitment of (Matlau). The source has revealed

former exchange student Michael Cole's) travel plans and continued

•contacts with soviets) one is son of an espionage agent) and denty

Huttenbach's) attempts

to obtain a divorce in order to marry a (soviet)

girl.

similar information is furrished regarding U.Si citizens

who are, or have been,

program.

Two of the four U.S. citizens who have

applied for entrance to Soviet universities

have stated that they

desire to become soviet citizéns. (Milagros Puiz Aponte, Puerto

Another Puerto Rican went to (Cuba) before he left for

the USSRO

Material has been received regarding three employees

Of USIA,

two U.S. citizens

& Federal employee

ho intends to marry o soviet girl, three individuals involved

with soviet women and too U.S:

contacts of Galina Smirnovaay

Intourist guide) who has compromised Americans in the post).

Contacts of foreign exchange students and aliens in the

U.So from Canada, Peru, Cuba, Ecuador, Dominican Republic, Brazil,

Uruguay, Colombia, Nicaragua,

HH 55164 DopId: 32989642

440

-1-105-13-81-78,

---

## Page 81

SLURET

they may be communists. Tuo foreign students and an exile from

Haiti) have been acting as intermediaries.

several have applied

for admittance to friendship University and other schools

in the

(USSE) because of fiñances or

ideology. A Nicaraguan Marxist in

the U.S.

is acting as an intermediary for an individual at

Friendship University by forwording mail to Bolivia.

Data i3

furnished regarding foreign students who attended school in the

(USSA, and are now in the U.S.

wife to the U.S.

Items. are received regarding (Soviets) who have entered

Irina Horwitz; Nataliya Konigsjora; and Rosita Brayton, wife of

an Alaskan) politician and neuspapermán, who has becone involved

The source davised of

contacis, travel and study in the ussh of urs. Lemp lolley, soviet)

wije of former U.S. Naval Attache,

who has admitted furnishing

information regardiny americons to the Soviets in the 1940's.

Much material has been furnished regarding US. citizens

travel plons, including those of known subuersives, their Soviet

relatives and contacts and difficulties encountered by two

tourists

with Soviet) authorities. Data has been received regarding Soviets

and former U.S. citizens who neve traveled, or intena to travel,

sto the U.sos

their contacts, activities and relatives. several

nad renounced their u.s. cutzzenship and had been engaged in

questionadle cotruities in the past. (Mary Mackler, who recently

returned to the U.S., has had numerous contacts with known subuer-

grues, at least two of uhom were connected with espionage, in.

pasta diaterial is received an los, defectors no in the (Use

Additional information received includes: plans of

seven indurduals to repatriate to the lost,

U.s. contacts with

current and former known and suspected (soviet agents now in the

Usse Vladimir SOSsinSKLy, Vladimir PORner, Eugenia Olkhina

LeOnIdS RITJOns, VLadIMIr ParamonOU, Igor Melekh and others;

activities and contacts of current and former known and suspected

and others; the death of Georgi

and continuation of his contacts by his wife; activities of

simon theosh contact ojlkajor Abdel Unets of united arad Repuolia.

who was

attending the FBI National Acadeny with individual ir

the USSei

1H 75164

DoéId:32989612 Page 81

---

