# docid-32341916

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY

: CIA

RECORD

NUMBER: 104-10017-10062

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

: 201-289248

Released

under the John

. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Сазе# : NW

53199 Date:

06-06-2017

March 26, 1996

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 9

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponement # 1 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 01/2006

Postponement # 2 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Gaston Baquero

Release Date: 01/2006

Postponement # 3 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

MY 53199

DocId: 32341916

Page 1

---

## Page 2

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Baquero

Release Date: 01/2006

Board Review Completed: 01/31/96

53199

DocId: 32341916

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Date: 03/18/96

Page:

1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

--.—..-------.-__—

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10017-10062

JFK

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

TO

TITLE

CIA

MADRID

DIRECTOR

FORMER CUBAN JOURNALIST TELLS CANTO (IN MARQUESA DE CUBA BAR) THAT HE

RECEIVED A LETTER STATING THAT KENNEDY WOULD BE KILLED ON 22 NOVEMBER.

DATE

12/05/63

PAGES

SUBJECTS CUBA JOURNALIST

GROWERY

MARQUESA DECUBA

CANTO

ASSAS. PLOT

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 01/07/94

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

OSW2:V2 1994.01.07.13:44:37:160005:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53199

DocId: 32341916

Page

---

## Page 4

TO

8 DIRECTOR

FROM

& MADRID

ACTIONS C/WH 4

INFO

ASSIFIED MESSAGE i

2 BOSEERET

ROUTING

RECORDS DEPLORE STA

The follow

authori..oc

51 FIZE

Signed:

G Hant

R. 0. 12 - Unit C/RYA

Note:

If destruction, cite

reasons and con

it appropriate.

3 DEC 63 874441

SECRET @51645Z

WAVE INFO DIR CITE MADR 985

AT TYPIC YOBITE AMWORLD

REE WAVE 8447IN 72832) **

10 CUBAN JOURNALIST LINE 3 PARA 1 'REF IS GUGROWL 4 MADR STATION

ASSET. GROWERY SAW HIM ON 26 NOV WHEN GPIDEAL DEATH WAS NATURALLY

DISCUSSED. AT NO TIME DID GUGROWL 4 GIVE ANY IDDICATION HE HAD ANY

ADVANCE WORD OR RUMOR THAT GIDEAL WOULD BE KILLED, HE WOULD HAVE

UNDOUBTEDLY REPORTED THIS TO GROWERY IF HE HAD RECEIVED LETTER REPORTE:

PARA 1 OR ANY OTHER INFO CONCERNING KILLING, HOWEVER, WILL GUERY HIM

DIRECTLY•

2. NO INDEX.

Document Number 315-19

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 24 MAY 1976

SECRET

for FOlA Revlew on

MAY 1976

_ IMPDET CL BY 012208

C/S COMMENT: #DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT GPFLOOR CABLES.

**On morning of 22 Nov., owner of bar "Marquesa de Cuba" in Madrid.

overheard former Cuban journalist tell one Canto that he had received a

letter stating GPIDEAL (3) would be killed.

hắt day.

201-289248

•SECRET

REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONSITED

•CS: COPY

Copy No.

wW 53199 Bo2Q9353:4316 Page 1

---

