# docid-32323139

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90010-10143

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-9734-778

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

BROWN

DL

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

DATE :

06/12/1962

PAGES:

4830331h8t10n Records

2

Collection ict of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

SUBJECTS :

Ca3e#:6N 54463 Date:

AMERICAN G.I. FORUMLO-12-2017

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54463

DocId: 32323139

Page 1

79

---

## Page 2

SAC, DALLAS (134-1A-679A)

6/12/62

SA W. HARLAN BROWN

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DI -6-3

EREINGS UNGLASSITIE

TE 2-15-92BY 56h8 S4D/KS

On 5/17/62, SA W. HARLAN BROWN received in person

(JFK)

from DL 6-S a handwritten report,

which report is dated 5/13/62,

and has been serialized as 134-1A-679•

That report revealed that GILBERT C. GARCIA of Fort Worth

was in contact with JOE LANDIN. GARCIA, according to informant,

is a former State Organizer for PASO, and in 1954 organized the

American GI Forum in Dallas®

More recently he campaigned for

Senator JARRARD SECREST, according to informant.

That report also revealed that GARCIA wanted to discuss

the rally the PASO Dallas chapter had for SECREST on Thursday,

5/3/62, at El Napalito on Harry Hines Blvd. JOE LANDIN told

GARCIA

that he did not go,

since he was notified 30 minutes before the

rally was

to take place.

GARCIA, who, according to informant, was

very emotional and very

hurt, told JOE LANDIN that he had inno

cently and unsuspectingly walked into a trap (with the Senator) for,

he continued, TurnAl was at the rally.

•TURMAN waS SECREST's opponent.

TRASE INCARCE thE FIRST A MAN CALDER LE CAST PEPPER"

informed JOL LANDIN,

and he had refused to answer them. GARCIA considered this a

dirty trick

and said he was through with IDA MORENO, MARY LEs

Chapter dead.

He said he would try to form a new chapter, even

1f JINMY TRUJILLO headed 1t. He admitted that TRUJILLO was as bad

as PEPPER.

GARCIA, according to informant, further advised, that

DON YARBOROUGH and the TURMAN people had

approached him seeking his

helps and that he was going to do it, as labor had mistreated him

too much.

He also advised that he on an individual basis was going

to work for CONNALLY.

(GARCIA was alleged to have used telephone

in Connally Headquarters, Fort Worth.) GARCIA informed JOE LANDIN

that he was doing his best to make PASO go "no'endorsement" on the

gubernatorial election.

He asked JOE LANDIN to contact TRUJILLO

and ask him if he wanted a Connally Headquarters in West Dallas

(at

Trujillo's store)

GARCIA further remarked that he belleved

the "Labor boys"

trying to get him; that they had been trying

069134-178

- 134-1A679A

- 100-9734 100-9734 Forum) :

• 100-10695 (PASO)

WHB: HU

(5) 11

JUN 1 21962--

NFBI PALLAS

NW 54463 DooId: 32323139

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 134-1A-679A

to

get him since 1954. he said he was going to bill them for a

$200. debt he had incurred while working for them. JOE. LANDIN told

him that at one time he wanted to expose J. O. "PEPPER" GARCIA,

but

after considering the situation for a long time, decided to

wait until

after the elections.

He did not want to

be accused of

hurting J. O.'s chances of getting elected. GILBERT asked him not

to

write the expose, but walt a couple of weeks as he would really

have some

information by then. He said if he criticized J. O. now,

he would be "vulnerable" to an attack.

Informant had no additional information:

• 2

14 54463

DocId: 32323139

Page 3

---

