# docid-32298994

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10224-10274

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 61-10448-27, 28

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEG, OT

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/13/1949

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS:

• [Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/13/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC 2 LTR, MEMO, TTY

y9.1

DocId: 32298994

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

DATE. 11-14-2017

sassination Records Collection Aet of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Pate)

JULY 29, 1949

CONFAENTIAL SAC, NEW YORK:

•URGENT

TOLSTOJ:

TOLSTOY, [SPECIAL INQUIRY, RCMP (5)

REBULET

JULY IWENTYSEVEN LAST, DISCONTINUE INVESTIGATION. *

68104-48-920

HOOVER

RECORDER EFF

6855

APPROPRINTE/AGENCIAS

AND FIELD

FICES

ADVISED BX

SLIP(S}O

DING

TATE

Clasat

Date oci

D.

3/13/78

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

3p8 Mos/inde 52694(5512)

Classihad tr

Declassily

en: DAD $/3/85

COPIES DESTROYED

RB6> JUNI E 196÷

Mr.

Tolson

Clavi

Ladd •

Nichols

RoBen

Exan

Mr.

1491274

Monr

br: PennIngton

• Mr.

Quinn Tar

Room

Neise-

Mise Gandy

.10J1

20161

CONFILS

277

AUG: 81919

DocId: 32298994 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F: Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREE

and hist

Uniten States Department of Juatice

Hederal Bureau of Inuestigation

Lialson Office, Ottawa, Canada

CONFDRENTIAL

AIRMAIL SPECIAL DELIVERY

July 25, 19496

Mr. J. Edgar Hoover,

Director,

Federal Bureau of investigation,

U.S. Department of Justice,

Washington, D.C.

Re :

Tolstoj;

class eation

uphold

6855501

3/13/78

Tapa

Dear Sir:

Reference is made to a letter from this Office

dated July 13, 1949,

captioned as above forwarding a

request from the R.C.M.P. to have Countess Tolstoj, who

owns a farm in the vicinity of New York City, Interviewed

relative to a person of the same name claiming to be

a relative. of hers and who had come under suspicion in

connection with a visit to one M. Chramtchenko in

Ottawas

(5)

The RoC.M.P. now advise that their investigation

has shown

that

the original suspicions of Tolstoj are

unfounded

that he actually had been in Ottawa during

1949 and contacted Chrantchenko in connection with

Jun desire to dispose of some paintings, and that he had

through mutual acquaintances obtained considerable

Information concerning Chrantchenko. &(3)

In view of the results of the R.C.M.P, inquiry

they now advise that it is not necessary to interview

Countess Tolstoj and that no action is necessary relative

this matter.

Very truly yours,

Classified by SPeb JAneTeL

Declassily on: OADR4/3/85

lena Berkel

Glenn H. Bethel

"!

RECORDED : 71

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLRSSIZTED

#OLS SHOWN

OTHER/CE

0729-4,1

SECRET

DocId: 32298994 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under

DATE: 11-14-2017

the Domin

asstnial

Recorus

TiST

"SECRET

SAC, Hew York

Dircotor, FOl

ECORDED - 123

TOLSTOJ

SYROCAL INQUIRT.

July 27, 1040

CONFIXENTIAL

Bufilo 61-104448

ATI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERRIN IN UNOTASFTETED

61-10448-27

There io ondlosod with this lotter a copy of a lotter dated July 13,

1949, roceived fron Glenn He Bethel of the Linion Offico in Obtane, Can da.

An you will note, Uro Bothel engloapa a six page monorandu with his letter®

A copy of this oix page memorandun is 4260 onolosed with thie letter. these

two enclosures are solixplanatory. die

Tho lavestigation docired is also outlined in those two enclosures.

'It la bolioved that tho Countoss Tolatoj montioned in tho enolosure 1s in

fact Miss Alamndra Tolatoy, alco, Countoss Tolstoys NDo483.

You aro in

struoted:to intorview N0e185

concorning the information outlined in the

onclosed menorandun. This interview should 'to conduoted inmediately and

the results, zunitted proptly so that the infomation oup be furnished

to the Rea

sne

gure

685*

SSR:ofm

TF2

3/3p8

Date de Dur

IML/DLC

Classiliad toy

Declassify on: CAOR 4/3/85

APPROPHIATI AGENCIES

AND ETETD

DIFICES

SLIP(S) OF

DATE

5÷11

Mr

Tolson

C10EE

Nichola

ennIngton

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAILED 1

JUL 27 1949

P.N.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVEETIGATION

I E. DFPARTOEUT NE DUSTICE

CONFIDENTIALI

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

AND FTErD OFFICES

ANISED AROUSER!

F7!

DA: 13/21/11.

SECRET

AUG 259n0355

DocId: 32298994

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017,

SECRET

AL INFORMARION CONTAINED

WOLFIN IS LNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

DINERWISE

United States Hepartment ut Justice

federal Bureau of Inuestigation

Liaison Office, Ottawa, Canada

AIR MAIL

Mr. J. Edgar Hoover

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

U.S. Department of Justice

Washington, D.C

classfication

Re :

July 13, 1949

CONFIReNTIAL

6x<18448

Jes

TOLSTOJ;

Special Inquiry - RCMP

TOLSTOY

CA(4)

Dear Sir:

Forwarded herewith, are/two copies of a statement

submitted to the RCMP by one M. CHRAMTCHENKO covering details

of a visit he had in Ottawa with an Individual who furnished

his name as TOLSTOJ. CHRANTCHENKO, a former White Russian

now residing in Ottawa where he is employed by the Canadian

National Research Council on work of a classified nature, and

where he is considered quite reliable, voices certain suspicions

Of TOLSTOJ.

These suspicions, which

are set forth in some

detail in the enclosure, were

aroused since TOLSTOJ told what

appeared an illogical story concerning

ing up to the contact of CHRANTCHENKO, the circunstances lead-

TOLSTOJ claimed that

a person by the name of RITCHIE in Montreal furnished

SP6BJA

Giassified by.

Declassify on: @ADRA,

SEma Ride 5-26

CHRAMTCHENKO's address to him and CHRAMTCHENKO claims that he

mows nobody by the name of RITCHIE, that it was very odd

that TOLsToJ should know as much of

CHRAMTCHENKO's background

as he was able to relate, and further, that he, CHRAWTCHENKO,

had only recently changed his address

In Ottawa and that it

would have been Impossible for any casual acquaintance, such

as RIcHiE would have to have been, to have known his present

address. Further, CHRAMTCHENKO indicates that TOLSTOJ's back-

ground and past activities as related during a conversation

did not appear logical.

It is quite evident that CHRAMTCHENKO

belleves that TOLSTOJ may be connected with the Russians and

that this contact was for a purpose other than endeavoring

to solicit CHRAMTCHENKO's assistance in disposing of some

paintings as TOLSTOJ tried to have the informant believe.

pose

It will be noted that in the paragraph starting at

IL the bottom of page five of CHRAMICHENo's statement 1t 19

COPIES DESTROXED

LyuR 862 JUNI E 1961

5:

RECORDED - 12 SE

144-1.27

INDEXED : 123

SECRET

DocId: 32298994

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the,

John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, (14 USC, 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

mentioned that TOLSIOJ stated that after returning to Montreal

he was proceeding to New York to visit his cousin,

Countess

і іонут

TOLsTol, who owns a far in the vicinity of lew lock city (3)

The RCMP are conducting an Investigation in Montreal

In an effort to trace the man named RITCHIE. WhO TOLSTOJ claimed

had put him in touch with CHRAMTCHENKO.

The RCMP have also

asked that 1f 1t 1s possible an effort be made to determine

If the TOLSTOJ who was in Canada actually has recently visited

the Countess TOLSTOJ: If he has visited the relative in New

York and brief Information can be obtained relative to his

background and confirmation that he is a painter,

then the

suspicions aroused while he visited in Ottawa will be shown

to be without foundation.

(5)

The RCMP advise

thät the canadian Immigration records

reveal that one ALEKSANDER TOLSTOY arrived In Quebec City,

Canada on May 31, 1949 aboard the "Empress of Frence.",

was

allowed entry on

a three months temporary visa to visit the

Norwegian Consul in Montreal:

This Individual's age 1s given

as 53, born in St. Petersburg, Russia, and a Norwegian citizen

óf Russian race... He is in possession of Passport No. 203

Issued at Oslo, Norway on April 6, 1949.

Although the

Individual on whom the Immigration have a record arrived in

Canada by boat and the subject claimed to have flown to

Montreal, Canada from London,

it seems

that there is a distinct

possibility these persons are identical. &(Sl

It would be very helpful Il inquiries could be made

at the residence of

the Countess TOLSTOJ as requested by the

RCMP and this office advised of the results at as early date.

as practical.

Very truly yours,

Glenn H. Bethel

Enclosure

SECRET: 6110448-27

DocId: 32298994 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE &

16014-2816:

SECRET

Upon returning hone tron the outtee on Friday 10th

(2845 hours) 1

found

3nmy apartment o violton analtihe my

Ho soo' converung nith my vito in balting Frenel.

Dy wife

Intzodueed hin

• competztet

20L9208..

109

contionen wee oyar 6 foot toad, toelined

to

stoutness

ond slightly atooped.

Blond but szeying end

heđ

boozde

the eyes

WOZO

Croons matery and very ineindeze.

hie

to renato for Inneti

Artez Lunch

(05 002)

during tho need. he told me the

puxp00o 01 hac viest ead

detalle

of hto peat.

Ile chole vAsil

coarineed no that

that

and sil. that he

toM 130

the purpose of hig vlott mou pot the obe bo

lasseted at to bo

but sonothing quite Catteront, one that I nag

simply boing Moinod up"

Dofore

sterling ay report

on my conversation with 1e

folstols I wien

to state

thad I did not

to Leave

him with tho

Inprossion thaß 1 we sot

boxing hia ot

•bão face voluo or 38

person he.

nished

believe

hin to

Moonuce of thle

end did not ass for ang proot of

statements.

ZORADA tO

• Bat g60

en expresslon of

surprise

034 1 09200

hia no told hin to contact

In Ottewas

• Fole tod

roptled that o good friond of his, a Mr.

Ratchie,

@1z00to5

Coradien footlog Choical Company 1n

Montrent,

• Ottere and seo me.

(Holetogg ono

002 91930

Cotone

accoralne to him for the special purpose

of visiting no.

-Ritchie mentionod ny nome, Tolatoj

(eccording to hic

sto benuat

to mo) donurned and sadd

that he was

afraie

• 11008 eng

02

21s

competesates as thoy may be eosmunate.

Bre Bitohio

Louched

zelled that he should have no foars on

accounte

86

aB 61- 2960

of the

• Engerors Court, an ez-horeo

goerdenan,

an

fanetiead monscohiso, @ men mo

Joined the

Easte Amy ot

tho vory

start, on ex hussion inteligence officer,

aho

Served

wa th

Cans 1101

* M131tory Tatolligenoe and wo

evor now 10

engaged

210

"Socred Servioo%

worke

Before 1 8o

further

3A100

the

folloning pointo:

any

685

jona

3/13/229

I have no friend in Montreal by

CONFIDAIVIIAL

ENCLOSURE

So classied slibal

SECRET

# 0448-27

Declassity on: QADR4/3/85

DocId: 32298994 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F.

Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATES 11-14-2017

SECRET:

CONFIIXENTIAL

not boy talenio

that pato in day pazo of Cozods.

* tho beat

0f ay knor else

2000D 196

by that none during y

any coress or eleerbere,

in Seefore

$ la very strange that taja

Reo hatchlo

could

have

mues Laron toa chout ny peot.

It such e mas exiate onl no gero la, Tolatol 50

nues latoration about no

I would very mach like

to know zon

choa he obtalaot it.

(8)

Up to the Let of Jono 1 mos zosteing of 062 Friel

* novo noo waston to any of my Inionde in Montreal or elaochero

21000,

that pobody koone my now addross with the excoption of

tho cried la nhich i sort nod.

a very few

poople in Ottowe.

(6)

#ze Ratchie, or foz

that mattor, nobody fa Montzea

could knoony precont address.

former addzens could be

obtoinea

the votaro

Manso postodos stroot comora, but

thon tro

Toletos moald

i have had

ast for

me thoreo

(5)

ex lend-lady end

about no on

thet

tho evening of

Izldey

10 duno, by nife phoned

hor

boother ond found thet no one was inquiring

day.

My wife aloo

phosed the ouner of. the house,

cold hos that no ono inquired about no.

Ta bon

Felday ovoning at my request my uife phoned long alstance anA

to bo conneobod with a Mr. Ratchlo in Montrees who la s

dizeotos of e Cenoddan Testing Chenload Conpony.

Long 41 stance

vory cooperetive but finally ropilod

ches theze

are thase conpanies

in Montren] @enling with chenistry and none ino a tir. Ritchie

• 2s

(6)

thòa tir. Colotos ras

talking to me about add that ho

know about me fron Bitchie, he

19 S

tolking An Hassion

and vezy

quicklye

Beforo saying "conhected now with tho

b80z0s

3ezvico%

no paunce as is looking toy

2áctt wonde

i Lagertenec

ot this

goude do as follome:

B0svi0o"

tora 400 having 91

equivalent Le Buselen and it

translated

very well

11tors11y.

there da no word for latelligence « If Polstod

borde RASYNDRA OF KONTERAZVIIIA Do soulA

De moang a puzoly now

the

bolshovis tem shich ho obriously old not want

Imperiod wond for Williery Intolligence would

For Bo0zet

CONFIDENTIAL

61-10448-27

SECRET

DocId: 32298994

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the

John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2101 Rotej.

-DATE = 11-14-2017

SECRET.

"CONFIDENTIAL

either, cnd

Espionage or Counter-leylonge work would sound

too strons and

joining on the ear in Rucsian.

Boobuse of this,

Tolatod

bes to besitate ond at this momont I becane omare of the

falsity

Servloet or e

La tho atmosphoro and propezed mysolf for esther "Seeret

dotelled dosoriytion of the work I won engaged in.

When finally 12. Polstoj

said, entllaght.

"Secret

Sorteo* I replied

that I was very much punaled by the knonlodge of

• Bithie who epparently knew so much about my poet and could bo

ao woag about my present

oacupation.

To description of my post

correot - I was not going to deny it, but was proud of 10.

for se the immedlate post was concerned, Mslitory Intelligence

singly

sanraine Gemon prisonero of vaz.

At precont I work in one

Dopartnente of the Jational Roscareh Gounell which has

nothing to do with any vorts so melodrenatioully referzed to as

"Seoret Servica".

With thie I changed the conversation and said

that when Russions moot ebrood they wont

(very naturally)

to know

all about each other and pest experienes.

Sinoe Mr, Tolstol know

so muon about me, i would like to know something about hims

Is accoust

of ale pest won very Involved, was not related

chronologloally and bed nany copa.

Since I did not

wash to make

bin fool that

I had cortein susploions about him I ald not eross

question at all. Ho told me that ho bolonced to one of the branches

of the rotscot fonily

the femily is large and has meny branches.

Such & otatement cannot be ohnilenged by ony one but another

menbor of the Joleted tonily.

Bis father, a Major General, hea

no 10nd but

depended

for his tacome on epaztnont bouses in

(many members of the folsto) fondly had largo ond

nod-anona apartmento theze).

Ho moo oduooted in the HIKOLAYSIL

cadet s0heol in Potzogzade

that 1s strange for a Polatole

School of His Mojectio! Pages we e much better gohool in every

way and

ontry lato this school nas & creat priviloge.

Un to the

Revolution the Poletogle had 82 membors at

that school,

His poreste

oertointy had the right to roll him an a page, lastood they

Preferzed

for

Inexpliesbe ronson to enroll him in an

or dinazy cadet

5ch003;

soone very unllkoly, If they refrainad

fron onberine their son in the lorpo of Fogee,

they mould have

entered bin' in

the Impertel Tieeo.

I took

Tolstog's on a

statenend

this statoment

which I could not diapzove,

I¢ he s014

ho was

2000, I could canily convince myselt of hia boing a page.

After congloting his studies at the endet school, he would

normelly have

gone Go on Officers Traindne School 1.0. the

Mirot

CON. DENTIAL SECRET

668-10448-27

DocId: 32298994

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 444 05C 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-11-2017

SECRET

4

CONFSENTIAL

first. Company of the Corps of Pages (for which he had the necessary

qualifications) or to the NIKOLASVSKIJ Cavalry School (natural

enough for a WIKOLADVSKIJ cadet)• After two years of either of

these two he would graduate as an officer. Instead, toLstoy

enlisted as a volunteer in the Chevalier Guards Regiment. This

for an ex cadet is an unbelievable perfomance and can be explained

only by two considerations. He had to say that he was a Chevaller

Guard to make me feel more

sympathetic; he could not very well say.

that he was an officer in that regiment as

there would be cross

questioning on my part. So Mr. Tolstoj told me that he enlisted as

a volunteer (private) and went to the Training

(KRECHEVITSKIE KAZARMY) •

check its veracity, especially as all this happened years before I

even finished the Corps of Pages (Tolstoj told me that he is now 55).

must have left the regiment in a year with the rank of Fasign of

the Reserve and would have been called up during World War I•

ald not mention by a single word his further military service.

He went to study at the Sohool (University) of Railroad Engineering.

Such a career can be described only as

erratie and makes it

impossible for me to che ok.

Then comes a rather long gas in his recollections. He

does not mention his participation in World War I at all (strange for

a soldier talking to another soldier, and being an Fusign of the

Reserve he could not escape it. He

did not mention the Revolution.

He did not excuse himself, a folstej and an ex guardsman, for not

having joined the White Arny: this is almost a rule for any

Russian who wants to ingratiate himself with a White Army man.

Wext I find that after

the Revolution Tolstoj lived in France

French is rather poor for a man who lived in France for a number of

years), in Germany.

Sweden, and finally settled as a well-known

portreit painter in Oslo, Norway.

He is now a Norwegian subjeot,

Sometime during his life abroad he married a Latvian girl. While

he was in Norway his wife, a cousin of his and a school "eomrade"

made their way from east Germany to the western zone, occupied

by the Americans.

There they took a small house and settled down

to walt for Tolstoj

to make it possible for them to go to Norway.

One day Russian soldiers come into the American zone and visited

the house of Mrs. Tolsto).

The next night they returned and ighot

up" the whole household.

urs. lolstoy escaped with a wound.

two mon were killed.

Tolstoj nearly cried while telling me this

CONFIDENTIAL

61-10448-27

SECRET

DocId: 32298994

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

144

DATE : 11-14-2017:

SECRET®

5.

Hote)

"CONFESENTIAL

After thie he baoke up his story and went on to

tea, mo

how diffloult it no for bam, e

•Buse jan-born Norwegian subjeet

during the bernen occupation of

Norway - Catfiourt, that 1s, Dolltioalls

Finanolally he fered very welle He beene a well-known portrait

palator.

las pioturos sold very moll and ho was able tob rine

his nite to Norwey®

bullt hincolt a

ville outside of Oslo and spent

hig lotsure hourg hunting. Se showed me mony snapshote of his

#1t0, ville and hunting dogs.

* was

inborostel in seeing the

snepshots in which he appoazed himself, as having seen the man

pius are photographs is very noloras for luent roston purposes.

Flually Mr. P0l0toj came

• to tho point of his visit.

According to him the present Morgegtan governont de very social

jetle and taxes his inoome (tron piotures) very heavily.

canno compiate about his tito in Horay

• but needs money and went:

"courade" out or Goany

mentioned beze that I understood thet

twe had been shot

while ln the Americon sone but was bold

that this is another cousin

nad another school "conrade".. So he decided on the following course

Ho took 15 of his oil pointlage on photographo of many of hia othos

plotures and

Chew fron Oslo to

There he loft two plotures

with friende (ror sal0)•

Tron London he flew to Montreal where he

contested hio good friend Ritchle and Ritchie sont him to me.

the

1d0a 1e that I

should find a miy

of cesling these pioturos here.

The cosh (1 en to have 88% of the sales

price) will be pleocd in

Ritchlete nemo or mino 1f I wiah

When there is onough money it

will be used for bringing

• 1o «Tolsto, Mrs, Tolatol,

the cousin,.

end the

school comrade from the Amertean Occupetion

• Zone of Permany

to Canada o

Besides arranging for the sale of plotures I wee askod

to ceo a way of bringing the two mon to Gongâa®

The last & brushed

aside saying

thnt booldos some old Criende in the Ainy and & few

in my present job I have absolutely no talendo or aoquaintances in

any of tho Covezrment

offices aol would not know even how to begla

Gay azzengements for bringing two sPig to Conada.

Sinee Kolato)

oame to Canade for the exprese purpose of socing me on those buo

mattore it is otrange that he scoopted my rotueal of help so cosily

and never brought the mattor up again.

far

the pietures are concorned, he showed ne three

very nice oilo of Morwegion girle in notional dress, and a group of

photogragho of his other pietures,

but could not leave any with me

es he wos leaving Ottawa

on the some

day for Montreal and leaving

Montreal

for the States wheré he was

to visit his cousta the Countosa

„CONFIDENTIAL

61-10446-27

SECRET

DocId: 32298994

Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992. (44 USC 2107 hote).

‹DATES °11-14-2017

SECRET

T3ЯOJ2 CONFIENTIAL

Rolato, (aho ouna a

He wanted do chow hie

pictures

1a too Stateo ta order to errange for soné 90100

€00e

• 6h020

Le sela that fron Dew Yorts ho will Ily baot to Colo (vie

sonion) and upon hia zebuzn

m112 wite to a lobbon antleg for o

creas deal of intomedion ro posable sales of old peachinge

mizz bond one petating (tor salo) end photograghe of ether

Dietaroe

of bond 1n his

otudio to 0ol0.

I penela: Str,

(384) M. Chrantohenko.

CONFYSENTIAL

SECRET

61-10448-27

DocId: 32298994

Page 12

---

