# docid-32200368

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10275-10247

RECORD_SERIES: MM

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 89-35-545. 546

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC. MM

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/11/1978

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 89-43-10396, 10398, 10399, 10397

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

12/05/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

INC LHM, INTV, MEMO, A/T

N₩ 45190

DocId: 32200368

Page 1

---

## Page 2

89-35

Miami, Florida

December 11, 1978

KW 45198

RE:-

ASSASSINATION OF

19-15-

JOIN E. KENNEDY

NOVEMBER 22, 1953

DALLAS, TEXAS

By letter dated October 20, 1973, the United States

Secret Service, Miani, Florida, furnished to the Federal Bureau

of Investigation (FBI), Miami, a copy of a letter sent to

that agency

by 'the United States Drug Enforcement Administra-

tion (DEA), Miami, Florida, dated October 13, 1978. The DEA

letter advised that an informant for DEA had indicated that

he was acquainted with Frank Sturgis of Watergate Notoriety,

and during a conversation Sturgis told the informant that he

had killed President John F. Kennedy. This remark was supposed

to have been made in the presence of an individual by the

name of Bill Johnson. DEA advised that this informant could

be made available for interview.

On November 7, 1978, Peter F. Gruden, Inspector in

Charge, DEA, Miami, Florida, advised that the intormant in

this matter was |

Gruden stated that

was of questionable reliability, Ircational, unpredictable,

nd described him further as a murderer and perjurer.

that the only reason was an informant for DE

at this

time was that l

had furnished information of internal

Gruden advised that David R. Wiser, Inspector, DEA,

Miami, could furnish more details concerning

On November 8, 1978, David R. Wiser advised that

had come to DEA and had made allegations of wrongdoings

against a DEA Agent. Wiser advised that to date the internal

investigation in this DEA matter has not uncovered any evidence

to indicate any truth to the allegations of

He advised

that the evidence to date indicates to the contrary.

Wiser 191s that Was on ated that during the late

summer 1978, he

was on Biscayne Boulevard in the downtown

Miami area, when

le came upon Frank sturgis, who was accompanie

by one Bill Johnson.

advised that

stated that durin

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is the property of the fBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

1 - DALLAS (89-43) (Enc. 1) "

5 - Bureau (62-10960). (Enc. 1)

(I = Miami (Enc. 1)

89-35-545

DS4P32200388

Page 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

REt

ASSASSINAZION OF

JOHN F. KENNEDY

NOVEMBER 22, 1973

DALLAS, TEXAS

this encounter, Sturgis stated that

he had killed John I.

Kennedy.

Wiser stated that he asked

"Why would Sturgis

impart this interesting bit of news t

who was a

known goverment witness

the past?"

And|

and publicized DEA informant fron

replied that it was

*one hit man to

another'.

wiser

auvised that

had indicated an intention

to go to the news media regarding his allegations against the

DEA.: Wiser further stated that he thought it likely that

I would also make mention of the Sturgis comment, in that

he had reported this to DEA, and that they had done

nothing

about it.

Wieer advisod fox this very reason he wrote a nemo

concerning that had reported, and for this reason it was

furnished to the Secret Service.

Wiser nade avallable a copy of this meno dated

October 4, 1978, which

is attached.

Wiser further stated that in a case in which

was

a witness for the prosecution

had allegedly called a

defondant during a trial and tom him he was going to "get hin"

the defendant in this matter, at the time of the call, had a

recording of his telephone call nade which was played

for the

presiding judge.

denied making the call to the defendant,

and the judge ruled that

testimony could not be permit

tod.

On November 9, 1978, Wiser had advised that Bill

Johnson was Willian J. Johson, date of birth March 11, 1931,

FBI number 133677C, last known address 1890 N.E. 110th Road,

Miani, Florida.

On November 31, 1978, Wiser advised that

had

been polygraphed on three

occasions by DEA on November 30, 1978,

and he had failed the three polygraphs concerning his allegations.

about DEA.

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

DocId: 32200368. Page.:3;

---

## Page 4

FD-302 (REV. 3-8-77)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

12/11/78

Date of transcription

appeared at the office of the

Federal

agation (PBI), 3301 Biscayne. Boulevara,

Miami, Plorida, there he was intervieved by Special Agents PETER &.

SCHOPPERLE ne DOU J, DUORD, EBI. Prior to the intervier,

Special Agent (SA) SCHOPPERLE had explained to L

that the

Federal, Dureau of Investigation (RBI) was destrous of knowing

any information concerning remarks made by one FRANK STURGIS in

his presence concerning the assassination of President JOHN F.

KENNEDY at Dallas, Texas.

advised that he is not that vell acquainted with

PRANK STURGIS,

but that he met him approzimately one year ago

at a party given at Port louderdale, Florida. He stated that

he was introduced to sPuRgIs by a friend of his, BILIX JOHNSON.

advised that at this party STURGIs had told him that ho

nad been a hit man for PIDEL CASTRO, and

that both CASTRO and

he (STURGIS) had both worked for the Contral Intelligence Agency

(CIA) •

OTHER 4

• At this point la the intervier.

stated that

ROCKEFELLER, meaning NELSON ROCKBFELLER;

hac been in charge of

the Wazion Connission, and that it had been & cover up as far

as the assassination of KamEDI was concerned. I

(President LYNDON JOHNSON) was at fault.

cold STURE

ptated that he believed BILLy JOINSN pay have

Is to say the above things, just to impress

next stated that shile at this party, STURGIS

had named

many people when he stated weze "big", and that he

knew these people.

_stated that he thinks STURGIS may

have killed KENNEDY because STURGIS had said that he could

"shoot a person's brains out at 1,000 yards with a simple

rifle and inagine that I could do with a Scope.*

stated that if STUncIs had made these

comments

concerning

the assassination of kEIlADy he was sure that he had probably

tole them to other people.

approximately 50 years old.

BILL JOINSON had worked as

3 a state that no at ea

next stated that he advised

smant foz the FBI, CIA and

by

HW 45190

Investigation on

32/6/78

SAB

PETER B. SCHOPPRRLE and

DIRERO

Viand, Florida

• File #91ami_ 89-35

_Date dictated

12/8/78

This documerit contains neither recommendations nor conclusions.of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your ajency:

it and its contents are.not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId:32208368 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 89--35-

He stated that he knew BIll JohNsoN on and off for.

couple of years, and that JoaNsoN was in his late forties.

He further described him as a flim flam zan who likes

to try to swindle money from wealthy women.

advised that in regards to the remark made by

STURGIS,

It was during the latter partiof the sumer that he

was on biscayno Boulevard, at approxiately 125th Street near

Denny's Restaurant and Steve!s Pizza, When BILUX JOHNSON

drove up in his car accompanied by FRANK SPURGIS.

that at this time BILLY JOHNSON

told STURGIS that

Jadvised

was a boston boy: At this timel

advised stuncis bald

*I killed a boy from Soston named KENNEDY,"

Jadvised that

he said;

* "Do you mean the President?" and STURIS said "Yes.

advised that JOHNSON next laughed and

said: "Ain't that

heavy -

advised that STURGIS then said "I'll tell you,

nobody else."

Jadvised that that was the end of the

conversation; and SURGIS and JOINSON left.

that be was

facing murder charges in Brovard county,

next advised

but that no trial date had been set.

I next stated: that

he wanted to becone

an informant for the fbI, but that he

would have to have 'it in writing.

further, related that he.

had boen screwed by DEA and his conversation bacame rambling

making no fürther sense.

Intervier was terninated at this

point.

the following la background information concerning

OTHER 4

Nane

Date of birch

Race

FIX Number

Hair

Byes

Beight

Weight

Place of Birth

Current Address

Telephone number

March 23, 1941

White male

320 23 ₽

Brown

Brown

5 feet 10 1/2 inches

240 Pounds

Boston, Massachusetts

1627 Morth Stinton Avenue

Delray Beach, Florida

278-0190

HW 45190

DocId: 32200368 Page 5

---

## Page 6

•ONAL FORM NO. 10

JULY

FDITION

GSA

(PMR 14)

CARI 101-11:6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Peter F. Gruden, Inspector-in-Charge

FROM

David R. Wiser, Inspector

SUBjECT: Allegation by

DATE:

pres

Nor P, 1978

Oct. 4, 1978

regarding the Assassination of President Kennedy

1.

On October 3, 1978, Inspector Donald Clements and I were interviewing

regarding an integrity matter. During a rambling discourse

on his belief that the drug traffic is a mammoth conspiracy headed by

DEA,

mentioned that he was acquainted with Frank STURGIS of Watergate

stated that STURGIS once told him (in the presence of

one Bill JOHNSON) that he (STURGIS) had killed President John F. Kennedy.

When asked why STURGIS would impart this interesting bit of news to a

known government witness

replied that it was said by "one hit

man to another."

2. STURGIS' alleged Involvement in the late President's assassination

has been widely reported by the news media.l

had previously stated

his intention to go to the news media regarding his allegations against

DEA. Therefore, he is likely to mention the STURGIS allegation as

well. Assuming that he would also tell them that he had reported the

allegation to two DEA Inspectors, I feel this memo is necessary.

3. Should another government agency wish to pursuel

allegation,

he said he was willing to meet with JOHNSON and discuss the matter on

tape to corroborate STURGIS' statement.

DRW/1h

5

Docid: 322003BAy WasteSavings Bonds Regularly on she Payroll Savings Plan

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

---

## Page 7

Airtel

December 11, 1978

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

(ATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY

UNITY

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (89-35) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

ASSASSINATION OF

PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY

NOVEMBER 22, 1978

DALLAS, TEXAS

Re Miami teletype to the Bureau dated 11/9/78.

Enclosed for the Bureau are five copies of an LHM dated

12/11/78, as captioned-above. Enclosed for Dallas is one copy

of same LHM and original interview notes forl

For the information of the Bureau and Dallas,

the opinion of the interviewing Agents,

a mentally unstable individual, and DEA suspects that he was

a one time heavy user of cocaine.

DEA has no objections to identity of

(Name)

being set forth in LiM.

No further investigation is being conducted by the

Miami Office, and this matter is being considered RUC.

OTHER 4

89-35-546

3

- Bureau: (Encs. '5)

- Dallas (89-43) (Info.) (Encs. 2)

- Miami

PBS/pi

(5)

ther

HH 45190

DocId: 32200368 Page 7

---

