# docid-32315488

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10342-10206

RECORD SERIES: DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-228-884

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: WEE

TO : DE

TITLE :

DATE:

06/26/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

ANTHONY GIACALONE (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS :

4

• CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

9.1

NW 45790

DocId: 32315488

Page 1

23

---

## Page 2

FD-209 (Rev. 3-9-62)

OPTIONAL FORM

NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: SAC

( 137-8)

FROM

:

SA

PALMER M. WEE

DATE: 6/26/63

OTHER 4

OPSI

SUBJECT:

Dates of Contact

Titles and File #s on whi

6/25/63

92-

TONY GIACALONE & AR

92,-

ANGELO MELI - AR

$2-614; Teamsters Local H614, Fontiac, Hich.

Purpose and results of contact

_ NEGATIVE

POSITIVE

Informant certified that he has

-furnished all information obtained

by him since last contact.

Personal Data

Rating

Very good

Coverage

sane

(1) 137-8

92-614

92-228 TONY GIACALONE

(1)

92-

ANGELO MELI

192-228-884

I am and

JUN: 3: 1503

fint

NW 45790 DocId: 32315488 Page 2

---

## Page 3

92-

TONY GIACALONE - AR

PCI said he had a meeting with VINCENT MELI ( Frank Meli's

son) on Friday, Friday,6/21/63. In discussing the arrest of TONY GIACALONE,

VINCE had

said

that it was TONY's egotistical attitude that got

him into his difficulty.

According to VINCE, TONY

should have been

content to let his lieutenants handle all direct contacts with

police officers.

In discussing TONY GIACALONE, VINCE had

said that

TONY is very immaculate in his dress and personal appearance and that

it is not unusual in warm weather for him to wear three different

suits in a single day.

PCl is of the opinion that Commissioner EDWARDS has overplayed

the publicity angle in the GIACALONE arrest and he suspects that it

nay backiire when the time comes to try GLACALONE.

He said his

opinion is based on the newspaper accounts which apparently carried

details of all of the evidence against GIACALONE.

92- ANGELO MELI - AR

PCI said ANGELO

MELI recently sold his house on Devonshire.

He is now living near Marine City. He has been having some trouble

With his son in

who married ANGELO's youngest

daughter a year or two ago.

Law, Inu, LUCIDCIDO reportedly has been drinking

neavily, has been keeping late hours and coming home drunk,

had been necessary for ANGELO to have a serious talk with him.

MELI residence.

According to PC-' ANGELO,

LUCIDO and his wife had been living at the ANGELO

according to PCI, had bought a bar for

young LUCIDO and he has

been operating it. PCI does not know the

name or location of the bar.

PCI added that in conversations with FRANK and VINCE MELI it

is apparent they have little respect for BILL BUFFALINO even though

he is married to a daughter of FRANK MELI. PCI stated that one Sunday

about four or five months ago he was at FRANK MELI's home.

BUFFALIDO was there also.

BILL

PCI said he became extremely bored with

NW 45790

DocId: 32315488

Page 3

---

