# docid-32330458

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90090-10121

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-84265-50

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

188a881nation Records

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Caset:NI 54460 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: MM

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/22/1960

3

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54460

25

DocId: 32330458

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Letter to

SAC,

Miami

• kes

JUAN BUENAVENTURA EUGENIO

FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

JORGE LUIS VALDES AMABLE,

AKA.

George Valdes

ROLANDO ARCADIO

MASPERFER

ROJAS - VICTIM

105-84265

CONFIDENTIAL

any conversations he may have had with de Castro in which

Masferrer's name was mentioned.

You should also reinteruiew

Ekberg and determine from him the exact circumstances

under which Misferrer's nome was brought into the

conversation between Elberg, De Castro and McNeill

07

about 1/20/60.

It should be determined whether

De lastro brought this subject up hinself, whether he

appeared to be trying to interest Ekberg and/or

McNeill in taking port in some plot against Mosferrer,

or whether De Castro had any apporent purpose in

discussing this matter. These points should aiso be

covered during the interview of Meieill.

You should also advise Bureau specifically

whether De Castro, during contocts with your office

prior to 1/21/60,

made any comments concerning the

Cuban Goverment's interest in eliminating Mosferrer,

either by killing him or kidnaping hêm and, if so, you

should set forth juil details.

During your reinterview of Elberg, you should

also press him for further information concerning his

expressed belief that Coba was the individual who

planned and instituted the plot against lasferrer.

Although rerep comments that Erberg said he does not

have any proof to substantiate this opinion, it would

seem that he must be pasing this opinion on something

other than sheer speculation.

You should definitely

resolve this

point.

Inis matter should recelve prompt attention

and results of your inquiries in this regard should be

furnished in report form at an early date.

NOTE:

On 1/27/60 Miami Office arrested Valdes and De l

Cuban nationals, on kidnaping-conspiracy charges in

connection with plot to kidnap wasferrer, prominent

anti-Castro exile at Miami, De Castro is

identical with

MM 635-S, heretofore valuable paid security informant o

Miami in costro elat la re red no prior mouled one

meeting with y

CONF

ENTIAL

(SEE CONTINUANCE OF NOTA PACE

NW 54460 DooId: 32330458 Page 2

---

