# docid-32330418

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System•

Identification Form

Date:

6/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90090-10081

HQ

105-84265-23

Released under the John

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Caser:NT 54460 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DONAHOE

TO:

BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

02/02/1960

2

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/15/1998

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32330418

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONF

ANTIAL

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10,

UNITED STATES GOVENY INT

Memorandum

1

-

- Belmont

- Donahoe

-Cotter

TO

IRING

NUByRCT:

Ao Ho Belmont

DATE: February 2, 1960

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

So B. Donahoe

HERGIN IS

ASSIFIEN EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE.

DECLASSIFIED

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ ON

GEORGE VALDES I. AMABLE, AKA.

ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS - VICTIM

KIDNAPPING - CONSPIRACY

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

LASS.

REASON-ICIM II, 1-

DATE OF REVIEW

Tolson -

AH13

Mohr

# Parsons

Belmont -

Callahan

Malone -

McGuire -

Rosen -

Tamm -

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room -

Gandy

MACHA

9131|91

Reference my memo 1/28/60. By way of background, Fernandez

Miami) and Valdes were arrested by Miami 1/27/60 in connection with plot

to kidnap Rolando Masferrer, prominent anti-Castro exile. Reference

memo noted it was not clear whether Fernandez planned to advise Bureau

of plot but was unable to do so because of circumstances.

A(u)

By teletype and airtel 1/28/60,

Miami has furnished additional

data concerning informant's role. Fernandez visited Miami 1/13-19/60

and supplied Miami Office with considerable data regarding Cuban

intelligence activities and political developments (including information

showing his own uncle is acting as Cuban agent in U. So) Informant

returned to Miami 1/27/60 and telephonically contacted Miami Office

on arrival and again after processing by INS..

At time of second call,

he inabcated he was late for appointment with unidentified individuai

but did not mention name of Valdes or indicate he was involved in

Masferrer kidnap plot.

Mn 635-s did suggest meeting agent who handled

him on evening of 1/27/60, but agent was unable to meet with informant

due to other

commitments and meeting was agreed on for following

morning.

Following arrest, Fernandez was interviewed privately by agent

handling him, sA George Davis.

He advised he had been instructed by

his superior in Cuban National Police to meet Valdes concerning

unidentified matter but insisted he was not aware of kidnap plot until

he had met Valdes at which time he had no opportunity to contact

Miami office. He said he planned to advise Miami immediately following

meeting but arrest prevented this.

Fernandez claimed that he would

not have actuallystaken part in kidnap plot and under no circumstances

would he divulge his relationship with Bureau. Miami believes

Fernandez gave plausible explanation and still has valuable potential

as informant.

H'ernandez.has just recently been promoted in Cuban

National Police to position, of, assistant to head of confidential section

OBSERVATIONS:F

107

-REC- 33

8426e

1050.116

- 131

Question

telling i drun will

probably never be resolved since arrest of informant precluded inde-

pendent action on his part. Possibility exists that informants

405189465

dur.

CONFIDENTIALL

HH

54460

DooId: 32330418

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFDENTIAL

..==

Memorandun Donahoe to bElmont

Re:

JUÄN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

GEORGE VALDES L. AMABLE, AKA.

105-84265

BE

current story may cover up.

However, this informant has been operated

by Miami since 1955, has produced valuable information, often of real

significance, and has never previously given any indication of un-

trustworthiness or duplicity. Moreover,

it is felt informant's story

is very plausible if, in fact, he had no advance knowledge of kidnap

scheme.

И)

There is little likelihood informant will divulge relationsip

with FBI since such action would seriously jeopardizhis own

Isajety. Under circumstances, it is felt we should not take any

precipitous action to manipulate this matter for the benefit of

Mn 635-s or exert any influence on his behalf. It is believed, however,

that we should furnish informant's account to Department and to U. S.

Attorney, Miami, who is handling case (we have previously advised both

Department. and U.S. Attorney of fact Fernandez has been paid Bureau

informant).

Department should have this information to handle any

problems

which may arise if Fernandez does divulge his informant relation-

ship.

Possibility exists that Government may decide not to

carry through on prosecution in this matter, especially since key

Government witness would be Mrs. Catherine Taaffe who is of dubious

reliability (we have also furnished Department full facts concerning

her).

Government may decide not to try subjects in favor of having

them deported.

In any event, it is felt we should await outcome

of future prosecutive developments before making decision as to future

operation of and 635-s.

ACTION:

Attached for your approval is letter to Criminal Division of

Department with copy to Internal Security Division, outlining Mu 635-5°

account of this matter.

i enter ton

Copies of this letter are being furnished to

handling this case.

itami Office which is peing

instructed to advise local U. So Attorney

2 d

- 2 _ CONDENTIAL*

NW 54460 DooId: 32330418 Page 3

---

