# docid-32308110

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10293-10468

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-661

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/16/1962

SGI, ASSOC, REL, RES, CAR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

v9.1

• NW 45792 DocId: 32308110 Page 1

218

---

## Page 2

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

¿ DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

AUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR 1 6 1962

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson.

Mr, Belmont

MIr. Mohr.

Mr.

Callahan,

Mr.

Conrad: 71

Mr.

DeLgach,

Mr.

Evans.

Mr. Malone-

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel.

Mr. 'Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes.

Miss Candy

DEFERRED

3-16-62

8-56

PM JEG

TO DIRECTOR FBI

92-3171

TALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

FROM SAC CHICAGO

92-349

DATE4-23-34 BYSP5RJG/

coL

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA.,

AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

PoTeNtIAL @RIMINAb INFURMANT

OTHER 4

CHICAGO

RCI, ADVISED HE HAS RECENTLY BECOME ACQUAIN-

TED WITH BROTHER OF FIORE QUOTE"FI FI"UNQUOFE BUCCIERI. CHICAGO INVES-

TIGATION HAS DEVELOPED INFO WITH STRONG INDICATIONS BUCCIERI IS HIRED

QUOTE

HIT MAN'

UNQUOTE FOR GIANCANA. INFORMANT ADVISED QUOTE"FI FI-S"

UNQUOTE BROTHER WHILE UNDER INFLUENCE OF LIQUOR, CONFIDED THAT ONLY

PERSON HE FEARS IS OWN BROTHER INASMUCH AS HE CLAIMS QUORE"FI FI"

UNQUOTE

WOULD KILL A RELATIVE AS QUICK AS ANYONE ELSE. INFORMANT TO MAINTAIN

CONTACT AND ATTEMPT REPORT ACTIVITIES OF BUCCIERI. (V)

INFORMANT LEARNED DAVE YARAS PRESENTLY LIVING ROOM TWO ZERO THREE

SOUTH, TIDES MOTEL, CHICAGO, AND DRIVING WHITE JAGUAR FURNISHED FREE

OF CHARGE BY MID WEST TRIUMPH, A CHICAGO SPORTS CAR DEALER. CLAIMS

YARAS HAS SUBSTANTIAL FINANCIAL INTEREST IN THIS COMPANY, WHICH ALSO

SUPPLIES OTHER CHICAGO HOODLUMS, WITH" CARS•

END AND ACK AND HOLD PLS

1RS STA VARNED: AND DANGEROUS.

10-00 PM OK FBI

WA

RAM

50 APR 3.

190 г

5 MAR 28/1962

NW 45792 DocId: 32308110 Page 2

---

## Page 3

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

The document which should appear in this

location has already been processed and

transferred to Archives pursuant to the

JFK Act of 1992.

The document can be

located in the following package:

Miscellaneous

"June

Reterences

SAmue/ Grancana 92-3171-657

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXxXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

NW 45792 DocId: 32308110 Page 3

---

## Page 4

-

XXXXXXXX

xXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

The document which should appear in this

location has already been processed and

transferred to Archives pursuant to the

JFK Act of 1992.

The document can be

located in the following package:

missellaneous "Jeme" References

Samuel Grancana

92-3171-654

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

NW 45792 DocId: 32308110 Page 4

---

