# docid-32989721

## Page 1

File #:

62 - 6464

Serial Scope:

60-73

HH

54974

DocId: 32989721

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.G. 20530

SEP 1 6 1975

TO: John A. Mintz, Assistant Director

Legal Counsel Division

Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM:

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.

Special Counsel for Intelligence

Coordination

SUBJECT:

House Select Committee Request

cApe (40)

Attached is a letter dated September 5, 1975, from the

House Select Committee which this Office received on September 12.

Please prepare an appropriate response.

EX:108

REC 68

Paul Daly

42-Il1e44=23

21 SEP 25 1975

ENCLOSURE.

g,17

HH

• 4 MAY 1/19/2989721 Page 2

54974

---

## Page 3

OTIS G. PIKE, N. J., CHAIRMAN

ROMERT N. GIAIMO, CONN.

ROBERT MCCLORY

JAMES V. STANTON, OHIO

ROBERT ELOREAL

RCHALD V. DELLUMS, CALIF.

JAMES P. JOHNSON, COLO.

MORGAN F. MURPHY, ILL.

HOBERT VI. KASTEN, jR., WIS.

LES ASPIN, WIS.

DALE MILFORD, TEX.

PHILIP H. HAYES, IND.

WILLIAM LEHMAN, FLA.

A. SEARLE FIELD, STAFF DIRECTOR

AARON B. DONNER, COUNSEL

TSLEPHONE: (202) 225-0751

Select Committee on Intelligentz

U.S. House of Representatines

dashúngton, Z.C. 20515

September 5, 1975

-==.

Mr. Michael Shaheen, JI.

Special Counsel for Int. Coordination

office of the Deputy Atty. General

Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mr. Shaheen:

In order to facilitate our investigation of

the FBI pursuant to House Res. 591, 94th

Congress, we request a copy of any files or

memoranda pertaining to an investigation into

allegations of illegal wiretapping by Baltimore

City police and the Chesapeake and Potomac

Sincerely,

G. Teach Fil

A. Searle Field

Staff Director

RECENED

12 1975

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS

DEPARTMENT AT USTICE

BEPUTY ATTORNEY

E

C.

21

SEP 10 1975

GENERAL

D

12-16464-

brEICE nE LECISHATNE AFFAIRS

ENCLOSURE

DEPUTY ATTORNEY GERERAS

1HF 54974 DoeId: 32989721

Page

---

## Page 4

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

SEP 1 9 1975

TO:

John A. Mintz, Assistant Director

Legal Counsel Division

Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM:

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.

Special Counsel for Intelligence

Coordination

spit 8)

SUBJECT: House Select Committee Request dated September 17, 1975

Attached is a letter dated September 17, from the House

Select Committee requesting various materials from the FBI.

Please prepare an appropriate response to this request.

CC:

Paul Daly

41,08

REC B8C2-11144412

Z1 SEP 25 1975

ENCLOSURE,

62-116444

A stil the

MAY 15

HH 54974

DoC1d960989721

Page 4

---

## Page 5

OTIS G. PISA, N. Yo, CHATtIMAN

OBERT N. GIAIMIT, CONN.

TOBERT NCCLONY, ILL.

LAMES!, STANTON, OHI

DAVIO G. TREEN, LA.

NALD V. DELLUMS, CAL

JAMES P, JOHNSON, COLO.

DAGAN F. MURPHY, "I

ROBERT 3, KASTEN, JR., WIS.

LES ASPIN, WIS.

DALE MILFORO, TEX.

PHILIP 4. HAYES, IND.

WILLIAM LEHMAN, FLA.

, A. BEARLE FIELD, STAFF DIRECTOR

AARON IS. DONNER, COUNSEL

TELEPHONE: (202) 225-9751

Select Committez an Intelligence

M.5. House ot Representatives

Washington, Z.C. 20515

17 September 1975

!

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.

Special Counsel for Intelligence

Coordination

U.S. Department of Justice

Washington, D.C..

20530

Dear Mr. Shaheen:

In order to facilitate our investigation pursuant

to House Resolution 591, 94th Congress,

we request delivery of

any and all files,

memoranda or materials regarding Norma Jear

Lodico including but not limited to the in-

vestigative report on Norma Jean Lodico

transmitted to the Civil Service Commission

by the FBI on or about April 27, 1973.

We further request any and all memoranda, files

or materials regarding the Michigan Socialist

Campaign Headquarters located in Detroit,

Michigan; including but not limited. to any

surreptitious entry of said headquarters in

1971.

Sincerely,

Wears

A.

Searle Field

Staff Director

RECETVED

SEP 18 1975

1618

64-1161?%.

ENCLOSURE

12

HH 54974 DooId:32989721

Page 5

---

## Page 6

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

SEP 1 7 1975

TO:

John A Mintz, Assistant Director

Legal Counsel Division

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.

Special Counsel for Intelligence

Coordination

SUBJECT:

Of rouse Select Cormittee Request Dated September 9, 1975.

Attached is a letter dated September 9, 1975, requesting

various information from the FBI. Please prepare promptly an

appropriate response to this request.

cc: Paul Daly

EX-106

ENCLOSURE;

REGI 62-1641 71

12 SEP 19 1975

Pite

5 - 11*

1- Ad Koe

8-18-75

Дост 2

1975

MH 54974

DocId: 32989721

Page 6

Leo, ourse

---

## Page 7

OTIS G. PIKE, N. Y., CHAIRMAN

HOMES STINO, CONS

MORY CURES, CuP.

LES ASPIN, WIS.

DALE MILFORD, TEX.

PHILIP H. HAYES, IND.

WILLIAM LEHMAN, FLA.

AMES P. JOHNSON, COLO

OBERT W. KASTEN, JR., WIS

A. BEARLE FIELD, STAFF DIRECTOR

AARON B. DONNER, COUNSEL

TELEPHONE: (202) 223-9751

Select Committee on Intelligence

M.S. House of Representatives

lashington, D.C. 20515

September 9, 1975

Mr. Michael E. Shaheen, JI.

Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

Office of the Deputy Attorney General

Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mr. Shaheen:

In order to facilitate our investigation of the

Federal Bureau of Investigation, pursuant to

House Resolution 591, 94th Congress, we request

a copy of any information, reports, or memoranda

concerning an illegal wiretap on the phone of

Mr. Harry E. Rapleat, Chairman of the Pennsylvania

State Milk Marketing Board.

Sincerely,

Olen the

Staff Director

IE:"

RECEIVED

SEP 16 1975

011 16

62-1'0417-11

ENCLOSURE

H 54974

DocId: 32989721

Page 7

---

## Page 8

FBI

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

SEP 151975

SB

TO:

Paul Daly, FBI

FROM:

Steven Blackhurst

Assistant Special Counsel

for Intelligence Coordination

SUBJECT:/ House Select Committee Request for Briefing

Attached is a letter from the House Select Committee

requesting a briefing with Assistant Director John McDermot.

Please arrange for compliance with the request.

Sister (rift

ENCLOSINE

EX-106l

REC 2112044620

sistereon

112 SEP 19 1975

70

1. pR Are

КАРЛТОК СК

1H51 ACT,8C1a1975089721

Page 8

62-116464

LEASURSE

---

## Page 9

• th

SEP 1 • 1975

TO: Paul Daly, FBI

FROM: Steven Blackhurst

Assistant Special Counsel

for Intelligence Coordination

SUBJECT: House Select Committee Request for Briefing

Attached is a letter from the House Select Committee

requesting a briefing with Assistant Director John MoDermot.

Please arrange for compliance with the request.

54974

DocId:32989721

Page

---

## Page 10

- Streetina

OT:AFFASHITE. Y., CHAIRMAN

ROBERT N. GIAIMO, CONN.

ROLERT MEGLORY, ILL.

JAMES V. STANTON, OHIO

RONALD V. DELLUMS, CALIS.

JAMES P. JOHNSON, COLÒ.

MORGAN F. MURPHY, ILL.

RODERT W. KASTEN, JR., WIS.

LES ASPIN, WIS.

DALE MILFORD, TEX.

Select Committee on Intelligence

PHILIP H. HAYES, IND.

WILLIAM LEHMAN, FLA.

U.S. House of Representatites

¿lashington, Đ.C. 20515

• September 9, 1975

A. SEARLE FIELD, STAFF DIRECTOR

• AARON B. DONNER, COUNSEL

TELEPHONE: (202) 225-9757

Mr. Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.

Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination

U.S. Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Dear Mr. Shaheen:

94th Congress, we request a briefing with Mr. John J. McDermot,

Assistant Director, Files & Communications Division of the

Bureau, to discuss

the files and classification systems of

the FBI.

Sincerely,

Ashu us

A. Searle Field

Staff Director

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS

91/110

RECEIVED

SEP 12 13/5

6211646410

ENCLOSURE]

21

SEP 11 1975

M.M.U.

PEACE-DE LEGISLATUE ENEMA

SEPUTY ATTON

HH 54974

Do0Id:32989721

Page 10

---

## Page 11

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPAIR (41 CFR) 101--11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memórandum

Mr

J. B. Adams

1 - Mr. Mintz

1

- Mr. Wannall

1 - Mr. Cregar

DATE: 9/15/75

1 - MI.

Hotis

1 - Mr. Daly

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.r

Dep. AD Inv

Asst. Dira:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv. _

Idont.

nspectio

Intellect

Legal Couns

HOUSTUDY

75

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Inv..

Training

Telephone Rm. _

Director Soc'y -

Steven Blackhurst, Deputy Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination in the Department, telephonically y

advised on 9/15/75 that the Department had been instructed

by Jim Wilderotter, assistant Counsel to the President, not /

co turnish any classified material to the House Select Com-

mittee on Intelligence nor to allow employees to be interview-

ed concerning classified matters until procedures were

established and agreed upon by the Committee for the

handling of such materials.

Blackhurst was asked whether the Department intended

to ask for the return of classified material which may have been

already furnished the House Select Committee.

He indicated he

had not considered this particular problem but would look into

the matter and advise the Bureau.

RECOMMENDATION:

For information.

!

REC-1

62-114-164-69

HE SEP 19 1975

.EX-106

PVD; ladyn

(7)

TIVEN

8 4 07 60с11973989721 Page 11

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

## Page 12

THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20505

Intelligence Community Staff

DCI/IC-75-2956

•5 September 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJEỐT

Policy Steering Group

Compartmentation Briefings for HSC

Staff Members

1 Hostess=75

1.

This will. confirm the comments made-by the-Director

of Central Intelligence at the

group's meeting of 30 July 1975.

2.

On"the basis of consultations with Congressman Pike

and senior staff members of the House Select Committee on

Intelligence, the DI had agreed to accept a signed copy of

the Employee Agreement which each Staff member signs as a

condition of his employment by the Committee in lieu of

the compartmented security agreements normally required when

an individual is briefed on compartmented intelligence material

or activities.

3.

Chairman Pike

agreed to identify those Staff employees

who had a "need--to-know" and who were to be briefed on sensitive

material in addition to their Top Secret clearances. . We were

advised that the initial Top Secret clearance was based on a

full FBI background investigation.

4. It should be noted that the Employee Agreement

provides that employees of the Committee commit themselves

not to reveal information received during the course of the

investigation, and this applies to their behavior after the

work of the Committee is finished.

5.

Attached for your information. is a copy of the

Employee Agreement and a listing of the current status of

HSC clearances 62-11604104:

NOI RECORDED

ENCLOSURE

091093495

as homos

ack

Thomas

Major

General, USAF (Ret. 5÷1

Chief,

Coordination Staff, ICS

Attachments:

as stated

84 NOV 4

HIH

51974 peta: 97589721

Page 12

62-116464

---

## Page 13

EMPLOYEE AGREEMENT

•1.: I have read House Resolution 591, 94ch Congress,

establishing the Housa Select Committee on

Intelligence, anc

the Conmittee's Rules and Security Regulations.

2.

I understand that as a condition of employment with

the Comnittee I an required to, and hereby agree to, abide by

House Resolution 591, 94th Congress, and by the Cormittee's

Rules and Security Regulations.

3: I agree not: to accept any honorarium, royalty, or.

other paymert for a speaking engegement, magaziné article,

book;

or other endeavor connected with the investigation and

.?.

study undertaken by the

Conmittee.

4: I fuxther agree that I will not divulge to any

unauthorized person in any way, form, shape or manner the

contents of classified information received or obtained pursuant

to House Resolution 591, 94th Congress, I understand that it

is my responsibility to ascertain nether information so

received or obtained is classified.

I further understand and

agree that the obligations hereby pleced on me by this paragraph

continue after my employnent with the Comnittee has terninated

5.

•I further agree that until such time as the Committee

has made its final report to the llouse I will not divulga to

any unauthorized person in any way, forn; shape of manner the

work product or meuoranda of the Coumittee or any material of •

testimony received or obtained pursuant. to House Resolution 591;

94th Congress, unless specifically authorized by the Committee.

6. I understand that failure to abide by any of the

foregoing will. subject me. to innediate. temination of my employ-

ment with the Committee.

fill

(Signature)

Jaly 22,1975

•(Date signed)

ENCLOSURE

62-1134i=

F.SEARLE FIELD

HH 54974. DocId: 32989721 Page 13

---

## Page 14

5 September 1975

List of HSC Staff Members

Cleared for

SI, T-K, BYC

/ FIELD, A. Searle

• BOOS, John L.

VWHIELDON, Jeffrey

VOLIPHANT, James B.

VERMIERE, Richard

".

• STAREK, Roscoe

VRUSHEORD, Gregory

VIRSCHSTEIN, Fred

VELINI, Jonathan

VHESS, Jacqueline

VSHEKETOFF, Emily

I DONNOR, Aaron B.

• ANDRADE, Carolyn M.

'SCHAFER, Michal A.

VZEUNE, Sandra A.

YAMAMOTO, Cheryl

I MATTOX, Charles W.

I CARROLL, Roger

ENCLOSURE,

102-1140105-

HH 5197$ DocId: 32989721 Page 11

---

## Page 15

.

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

House Select Committee

Addressee:

OLTR

[X] LHM

[Memo [Report dated.

8/28/75

Caption of Document: FBI Budgetary Information Already

Provided to the General Accounting Office. Re

let from

SSC 7/30/75.

FBI

Originating Office:/

Delivered by:

Received by:

MilEr Paro: Sept 2, 1975

Title:

Return this receipt to the Intelligence Division, FBI

HW 54974

DocId: 32989721

Page 15

---

## Page 16

SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

BEFORE COMPLETING.

TO:

Intelligence Community Staff

ATTN: Central Index

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

FROM:

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

" for revien but not transmitted, som

If a document was made available

not transmitted.

so note.)

DOCUMENT

BRIEFING

INTERVIEW

TESTIMONY

OTHER

FOR ADVICH

3. ТО WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

2. DATE PROVIDED

8/29/75

SSC

XI HSC

4. IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive

data for documents; five name or identification number of briefer,

interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandan

if in response

at formal request, other-.

#SC letter 7/30/75

U

?. KEyd under finto rot emphasipriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are

Bulget and tompower data

8. SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this item)

FBI. Esdgetary Infurnation already provided to the Ceneral

Acaounting office

62-116464

EMK: Eni:

(4)

ORIGINAL, VIA LIAISON TO CENIRAL COMMUNITY INDEE

IN CONNECTION WITH HOUSTUDY 75

TREAT AS YELLOY

379 | 16-751

NH 51971 DocId:32989721 Page 16

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

---

## Page 17

INSTRUCIIONS

• Type or print clearly in ink.

• Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

• "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the

information.

• If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to

HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a

copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing

substance of information and

showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted.

Commitments made to supply additional information should be

noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,

e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether

interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript

is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional

pages may be attached if necessary.

HH 54974

DocId: 32989721

Page 17

---

## Page 18

Department of Justice

STATEMENT

OF

Assoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm.-

Dep.-A.D.-Inv

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Est. Syst.

Affairs

Files i, (o)

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

nspectio

ntallite

Fris

Labor t-ry

Plan. d: Eval. -

Spec. Inv. -

Train.g

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

DESANSETVIXTH

REX E. LEE

ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL

CIVIL DIVISION

Tapeff

in affin

Before

the

62-116464

NOT RECORDED"

46 SEP 29 1975

G

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1975

Fil 82-116464

5-01

8 A 0CT 600129752989721 Page 18

---

## Page 19

F..?

My name is Rex E. Lee. I am an Assistant Attorney

General, and I appear this morning on behalf of the Execu-

tive Branch.

We understand that this Committee yesterday, acting

in executive session and over the protests of representa-

tives of the Department of State, the Department of Defense,

and the Central Intelligence Agency, voted to declassify

and release to the public, and did in fact subsequently

make available to the public, materials properly classified

under law. These materials had been provided to the

Committee as classified documents pursuant to its requests.

The materials released by the Select Committee concerned,

among other things, certain foreign communication intel-

ligence activities of the United States Government.

The Committee Chairman also advised the representatives

of State, Defense, and the CIA that it was his position

that the Select Committee possessed the inherent right to

declassify any materials classified by the Executive

Branch and that the Select Committee would continue to

exercise that asserted inherent right in its sole discretion.

We object strongly to the unilateral and unprecedented

action of the Committee in declassifying sensitive information

furnished to the Committee by the Executive Branch. The

successful and efficient conduct of the work of several

NH 54974 DocId: 32989721 Page 19

---

## Page 20

- 2 =

congressional committees depends upon the receipt by

those

committees of classified information, which has con-

sistently been delivered to those committees on the

understanding that the integrity of the classification

would be maintained. The action of this Committee

yesterday stands as a sharp departure from the traditionai

manner of handling classified information to accommodate

the respective constitutional responsibilities of the Execu-

tive and Legislative branches. In addition, the release of

classified information such as the Committee has done,

and has stated it will continue to do, causes serious and

irreparable harm to the national security and foreign.

relations of the United States. Finally, the Committee'si:

action is contrary to the express policies of Congress

concerning the handling of classified information. I refer

to the Case Act (1 U.S.C. Sect. 112b) and the Freedom of

Information Act (5 U.S.C. Sect. 552). The Committee's.

action is also inconsistent with the purposes and policies

of several statutes enacted by the Congress to prevent and

penalize disclosure of properly classified information:

except as authorized by the Executive Branch.

The constitutional question raised by the Committee's

action is a most serious one.

The Executive Branch has

endeavored, in a spirit of comity and cooperation, to

NH 54974 DocId: 32989721 Page 20

---

## Page 21

":.

- 3 -

work with the Select Committee on Intelligence, but it

cannot accept this unprecedented action, which in our

view is an unconstitutional act.

The Congress is vested with the powers to legislate

and to oversee the administration of the laws passed by

it, but this action of the Committee is not a legislative

act nor is it oversight. It is a vote by a single Commit-

tee to review and overturn an Executive act and, there-

fore, beyond any power vested in it.

In view of the position expressed by the Committee to

our representatives yesterday, the President's responsibilities

for the national security and foreign relations of the United

States leave him no alternative but to request the immediate

return of all classified materials heretofore provided by

any department or agency of the Executive Branch and direct

all departments and agencies of the Executive Branch respect-

fully to decline to provide the Select Committee with

classified materials, including testimony and interviews

which disclose such materials, until the Committee satisfactorily

alters its position.

We regret the Committee's action and the consequent

necessity for this response.

We would prefer the relation-

ship of constitutional accommodation and cooperation that

exists between the Executive Branch and other congressional

committees.

IN 50994-09 DocId: 32989721 Page 21

---

## Page 22

SEUNLI

THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20505

Intelligence Community Staff

DCI/IC 75-2620

2 September

• 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Members of USIB Ad Hoc Coordinating

SUBJECT

House Select Committee on Intelligence

Attached is a paper from the Chairman, USIB Security

Committee, outlining security arrangements made by the House

Select Committee on Intelligence.

che Thomas

Jack E. Thomas

Major General, USAF (Ret.)

Chief, Coordination Staff, ICS

'en airs

Attachment

162-116464

+05985355305

NOT RECORDED

54179357

E2 SEP 9 1975

Gaboon

This Document May Be Downgraded

to Unclassified When Removed From

Attachment

Plenifile

62-116464

CLASSIFIED BI

356793

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECIASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE GE E. O. 11352, EXENITION CATEGORY:

§ 5B(1; E, (S) or il) (circle one os pora)

AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON

Date Impossible to Determine

(unless impossible, insert date or event)

SECRET

8A9$EP 20271075989721. Page 22

---

## Page 23

SECRET

UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

SECURITY COMMITTEE

SECOM-D-105

2 September 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Coordination Staff, ICS

SUBJECT

: House Select Committee on Intelligence

On 29 August 1975, Mr. Robert Gambino, Director of

Security/CIA; Mr. William H. Standiford, Deputy Chief, Physical

Security Division, Office of Security/CIA; and I viewed the

permanent space of the staff of the House Select Committee on

Intelligence at the invitation of Mr. A. Searle Field, Staff Director

of the Committee. We believe the security arrangements made

and being made are satisfactory for the storage of compartmented

information. Attached is a memorandum outlining the security.

arrangements:

togeth

mite Deare

Donald E. Moore

Chairman

• :

Attachment :

....";

:.

This Document May Be Downgraded

to Unclassified When Removed From

Attachment

НН 54974 DooId:32989721 Page 23

62-1954604-

SECRET

EnCLOSURE

CLASSIFIED BY -

356793

EXCMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULS CF E. O. 11652, EXEMPTION CATEGORY:

§ 5B(1), (S), (3) or (4) (circle one or more,

AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON

Date Impossible to Determine

(unless impossible, insert date or event)

---

## Page 24

SECKE!

2 September 1975

House Select Committee on Intelligence

1.

The House Select Committee staff is now located in its

permanent space, B-316, Rayburn Building: Ms. Jacqueline Hess

is the Security Officer, telephone number 225-9696.

2. The only entrance is through B-316 and the space consists

of several adjoining offices.all served by an inner walkway. A member

of the Capitol Police is stationed at a guard desk inside the door and

admits only authorized individuals. Visitors must sign in with the

guard, who calls the appropriate staff employee and visitors are

allowed access to the space only in the company of staff employees.

Interview rooms are located in the staff area but separated from the

work area. During non-work hours two guards are on duty in the

space.

3. All classified material is kept in a secure area at the

rear of the space with one entrance, to the secure.room. This room

Is to be locked atlall

tire's when specified employees are.not.on,

duty in the room. At the present time, Ms. Hess is the only one

who will be able to open the secure area and unless circumstances

change this arrangement will continue.

4. All classified material is kept in this secure area, and

stored in approved safes with three-way combination locks. At.

present, Ms. Hess is the only person who possesses the combination

to these safes. py

tie vege

5. Reading of classified documents is to be in a reading area,

consisting of several tables, in the secure area. A staff employee

desiring access to a classified document must make a request for

it, Ms. Hess then obtains it, the employee reads it in the secure

area and it is then returned to Ms. Hess for return to the safe

cabinet. Staff employees have been advised that notes taken from

classified documents and material prepared from such notes or the

documents must respect the original classification and receive

corresponding security. Copying of classified documents is to be

strictly controlled, is to be done only on a copying device located

in staff space, and copies are to receive the same security protection

as the original.

CLASSIFIED BY -

356793

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

62

11160464-

SCHEDULE OF E. O. 11352, EXEMPTION CATEGORY:

$ 55(1), (D, (3) or (4) (circle one or nore)

AUIOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON

HH 54974 DocId:32989721 Page 24

SECRE!

Nate Impossible to Determine

CLOSURi (unless impossiblo, insert date or event)

---

## Page 25

SECRET

6. The entire space has been swept and plans call for

additional periodic sweeping. There is a motion detector in the

secure area which rings at the guard desk in the staff area and

also at the main office of the Capitol Police in the Rayburn Building.

Tests have been made of this device and the response by the Capitol

Police was immediate. Two doors which normally serve as access

to the secure area from space occupied by other House Committees

have been secured from the inside and alarms are to be installed

on these doors.

7. Mr. A. Searle Field, Staff Director, and Ms. Hess

advised that staff employees have been alerted to telephone security.

and this will be continually stressed.

Also they have tried to instill

strong security consciousness among all the staff. Mr. Field

indicated that at present it is not expected the staff will total more

than 35.

""

•"

•::

HW 54974

DooId:32989721

Page 25

SECRET

---

## Page 26

OPTIONAE TORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA IPAR 141 CIR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

1

Memorandum

TO

: Mx.

B. Adams

1

- Mx. Mintz

- Mr. Wannall

(Attn: Mr. Cregar)

1 - Mrs. Metcalf

DATE:

8/20/75

Admig

Comp.

Ext. Affairs

Filas & Com. -

Gen. Iny. _

Ident.

1

- Mx.

Hotis

1

- Mr.

Daly

faton : year counset

STATUS OF RESPONSES TO CONGRESSIONAL

COMMITTEE REQUESTS

AM.

Laboratory-

Legal Coun..

Training -

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sacy -

The purpose of the memorandum

is to set forth

• in

summary form the requests we have received from various Com-

nittees in Congress and the status of our replies.

Senate Select Committee on

Intelligence Activities (Church's Committee)

Date of Request

Nature of Request

Letter, 7/14/75

Material pertaining to

Status

Response delivered

Martin Luthes King.

N

Letter, 8/5/75

• Request for FBI materials

Response being

with respect to surreptitious prepared.

entries.

Letter, 8/7/75

Requestion in te

Letter, 8/8/75

Request for materials

relating to mail

Briefing held

8/18/75.

Response being

preparea.

surveillance.

Letter,

8/12/75

Letter, 8/13/75

Request that FB= provide

third-agency clearance of

FBI materials possessed by

IRS.

Request for access to

materials pertaining to

organized crime.

Response being

prepared.

Letter, 8/13/75

Response being..

prepared

NUE 27 1975

Request for underlying

Response being

marcriais related to

Department of Justice file

02 Pro fly

#82-45-j.

NOT RECORDED

CONTINUES SEP 0421975

Lad in:

8 4 97PM 8 1975

ww 549742pcId: 32989721317ages. 2Saunes Bonds Repularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

## Page 27

Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams

RE: STATUS OF RESPONSES TO CONGRESSIONAL

COMMITTEE REQUESTS

Committee on the Judiciary

Subcommittee on Constitutional Rights (Tunney's Conmittee)

Date of Reguest

Nature of Request

Status

Letter, 7/25/75

Request concerns limited

nessage-switching im-

Response being

prepared.

olementation plan.

Subcommittee on Postal Facilities, Mail, and

Labor Management

House Post Office and Civil Service Committee (Wilson's Committee)

Date of Request

Nature of Request

Status

Letter, 8/6/75

Request pertaining to

Response delivered.

mail openings.

Subcommittee on Government Information and

Individual Rights

Committee on Government Operations (Abzug's Committee)

Date of Request

Nature of Request

Letter, 8/16/75

Request for waiver of

former SA George A. Berley

Status

Response being

prepared.

to respond to questions re-

garding non-court-ordered

surreptitious entries.

Subcommittee on Courts, Civil Liberties and the

Administration of Justice

Committee on the Judiciary (Kastenmeier's Committee)

Date of Request

Nature of Request

Letter, 8/6/75

Request pertaining to the

National Security Index.

Status

Response being

prepared.

CONTINUED - OVER

-

2 -

HH 54974 DocId:32989721 Paye 27

---

## Page 28

1.

Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams

RE :

STATUS OF RESPONSES TO CONGRESSIONAL

COMMITTEE REQUESTS

Mouse Select Committee (Pike's Committee)

Date of Request

Letter, 7/22/75

Letter, 7/28/75

Letter, 8/11/75

Letter, 8/19/75

Letter, 8/19/75

Nature of Request

Status

rovide to the mate sale line mace se

Committee to Study Govern-

material available

mental Operations and request for review in Bureau

for all materials related to

space.

budgetary authority.

Inquiry to encompass all

aspects of the FBI budget

Partial response

prepared.

as it relates to gathering,

use and dissemination of

intelligence.

Request for briefing of

Assistant Director

Wannall on general

perations of the In

elligence Divisior

Request for information

oncerning Burea

nformants

Briefing held with

HSC Staff Members

on 8/18/75.

Response delivered

to the Department.

Request (7/22/75) all

documents provided to SSC;

(7/22/75) General Counsel's

Response being

prepared.

Letter,

8/19/75

organizational chart; (1/30/75)

access to all FBI information

provided to GAO; and (8/13/75.

proposed FBI guidelines.

Request for materials relat-

Response being

ing to wiretaps and electronic prepared.

surveillance.

CONTINUED - OVER

- 3-

IN 54974 DocId:32989721 Page 28

---

## Page 29

Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams

RE:

STATUS OF RESPONSES TO CONGRESSIONAL

COMMITTEE REQUESTS

Date of Request

Letter, 8/19/75

Nature of Request

Request for current

Bureau organizational

chart.

Status

Response being

prepared.

Hearings

Date of Request

ORALLY, 7123175

Nature of Request

Status

Facilities, Mail, and Labor

established.

Management of the Post Office

and Civil Service Committee

concerning mail covers and mail

openings.

Anticipated Hearings

We have been informally advised that there will be

hearings before the Senate Select Committee on mail openings

sometime in September and the House Select Committee hearings

are scheduled for sometime during the first week of October.

The topic for the House Select Committee hearings is not known.

RECOMMENDATION:

For information.

git

Offr

- 4-

1W 54974

DocId: 32989721

Page 29

---

## Page 30

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. W. Ro WannalI Will

FROM

W. 0.

SUBJECT

HOUSTUDY 75

1 - Mr. J. B. Adams

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. V. Cleveland

DATE: 8/28/75

1 - Mr. A. J. Decker

1 - Mr.

E. W. Walsh

1 - Mr.

W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr.

w. 0. Cregar

1 - Mr. J. G. Deegan

1 - Mr.

R. L. Shackelford

1 - Mr. I. J. McNiff

Assoc. Dir.

Dop. AD Adma

Dep. AD Invi

Asst. Dis.:

Admin. -

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs _

Filos & Com. -

Ident. _

Inspection

Intell. -

Laboratory

Logal Count

Plan. & Eval. A

Spec. Inv.

Training

Tolaphone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

Reference is made to memorandum from the Legal Counsel

Division to Mr. J. B. Adams dated 8/20/75, captioned as above,

wherein it was recommended and approved that a briefing of

representatives of the House Select Committee (HSC) be arranged?

by the Intelligence Division concerning informant matters in

coordination with the Special Investigative and Administrativel

Divisions.

By appointment, the above-mentioned briefing was

held in the Conference Room of the Intelligence Division, JEH

Building, on 8/28/75 during the approximate period 10:00 a.m.

to 12:00 noon.

Present at this meeting were Assistant Directors

Eugene W. Walsh and W. Raymond Wannall of the Administrative

and Intelligence Divisions respectively; Inspector-Deputy

Assistant Director Frederick C. Fehl, Section Chief Carl W.

Hurst and Special Agent (SA) Loy A. Wagoner, all of the

Special Investigative Division; SA Paul V. Daly of the Legal

Counsel Division; Section Chief Charles D. Neudorfer, Computer

Systems Division; Inspector-Deputy Assistant Director Thomas W.

Leavitt, SAs Edward P. Grigalus, Homer A. Newman, Jr., and

Thomas J. McNiff, all of the Intelligence Division; Mr. Michael E.

Shaheen, Jr., Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination,

Department of Justice; and Messrs. James B. F. Oliphant and

Richard Vermilere, Staff MX 106S OF REG-1562-1164

At the outset, the parameters of the briefing were

explained to representatives of the HSC by Inspector Leavitt

and SA Daly. SA Newman followed with a briefing as to the

manner in which informants are developed and handled by Bureau

personnel as well as

an explanation of Bureau policy with

regard to such matters.

HE SEP 19 1975

62-116464

TJM: 1hb |hb

(12)

1H7 51574

_SEP 2 2 1975

DocId: 32989721 Page 30

CONTINUED - OVER

---

## Page 31

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re:

Houstudy 75

62-116464

The remainder of the briefing was expended in a

question and answer session with the HSC Staff Members inquiring

concerning Bureau policy and describing hypothetical situations

Tath an ere bein naiven

with answers being given by Bureau personnel present most

(a) budget matters,

(b) definition of informant and/or source,

(c) means of establishing reliability, (d) whether or not Agent

provocateur techniques are

employed by the Bureau, (e) manner

handling of informants, (h) tax matters relating to informants,

(i) whether or not "deals" were made with individuals to entice

them to become informants and/or avoid prosecution, (j) and

total payments made to Bureau informants in calendar year 1975.

In addition, Messrs. Oliphant and Vermiere inquired as to this

Bureau's policy with regard to the offering of rewards.

At the closure of the above briefing and question

and answer period, Messrs. Oliphant and Vermiere expressed

their appreciation to Bureau personnel present and related that

they believed that the time spent'in this regard, coupled with

information concerning informant matters which they will

obtain through a review of Bureau manuals dealing with the.

subject, will afford them a better understanding of the entire

informant picture as it relates to this Bureau and which will

be reported upon by them to the Congressmen who comprise the

HSC.

ACTION:

None.

For information.

WIC.

Eut

AJolest

NH 54974 DocId: 32989721 Page 31

- 2-pur

---

## Page 32

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

11 - Mr.

J. B. Hotis

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

August 28, 1975

The Attorney General

Director, FBI

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

1 - Mr.

R. D. Hampton

UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELIIGENCE (ESC)

This is in response to ISC letter dated July 30,

1975, requesting access to all FBI budgetary information

already provided to the

General

Accounting Office pursuant

to its investigation for the House Judiciary Connittee.

Attached for your approval and forwarding to the

Committee is the original of a memorandum which constitutes

our complete response to this request.

responded to all other requests in the HSC letter dated

July 30, 1975. A copy of the memorandum is being provided

for your records.

Enclosures - 2

62-116464

EX-106

1 = The Deputy Atcorney General

Attention: Michell shake RECt 2

Intelligence Coordination

li labeli

675-

04 SEP 19 1975

RDH: Lijli>

(9)

Assoc. Dir.

-

Dep. AD Adm. - i

Dep. AD Inv.

AsSi. UAr.:

Admire

Comp. Sysf. _

Ext. Affairs -

Files & Cóm.._

* Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Ey

4,9913

Legal Coun..

Firephone BE MAIL ROOM

Director Sec'y 2

1974

DocId:32989721

TELETYPE UNIT L

Page 32

1578

•lips dose

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 33

2 - MI. J. A. Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - MT. W.

R. Wannall

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

1 - Mr. R. D. Hampton

62-136464

August ?8, 1975

LOITED SETASS ROUST OF REPROSIICALIVES

STI3CI COLLISTEN Of TGLLICLICE

NE: FBI BUDGETARE IRTORINTION

MERCADY POCVICLO DO THE GSIERAI

ACCOUTNING OFFICE

Reforenco is nade to the letter fron the captioned

Committos dacod July 30, 1975, Which containod a requast Eor

accoss to the above-mentioned naterial.

pursuant to your request, a copy of the above

matorial lo now available for roview at rot leadouarters

by locars. Vernciro and Oliphant of the Cormittee.

1 - The Attorney General

ORIGINAL, AND 1 CC TO ATTORNEY GENERAL

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Irv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst. —

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv. _

Ident. -

Inspection .

Intell. -

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spoc. Inv. _

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. _

Director Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM E

NH 54974 DocId: 32989721

Bèn

!

- Ills die,

TELETYPE UNIT MELOSURA

Page 33

-

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 34

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL.

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

August 1, 1975

TO:

John A. Mintz, Assistant Director

Legal Counsel DivisIOn

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.

Special Counsel for Intelligence

Coordination

House Select Committee Request for Materials

and Briefings

Attached is a request from the House Select Cormittee for

various materials and for briefings with different Bureau officials.

Please arrange for conpliance with this request and advise me as to

the length of time likely to be required for response.

D

CC:

Paul Daly

"DAG

EX-106

REGA 62110464-lle

MR SEP 19 1975

5, This

ENGLASURE

1 84 SEP2 7197509721

Page 34

---

## Page 35

JAMES V STANFIN

RONALD S. DELUU.SS

CAUF.

MORGAN F. MURPLY, IL.

LES ASPIN, WIG.

DALE MiLTORD, TEX.

PHILIAN. HAYES, INO.

WILLIAM LENNA, FLA.

ROBERT ME TIARY, 1LI.

DAVID C. TRIC:I, IN.

JAMES P, IOPINSIN, COLO.

RODEN'T V. KASTEN, JR., VIS.

1. SEABLE FIELD, STAFF DIRECTA-

AARON IS, DONNET, SCUNSEL

TELEPHONE: (202) 225-9751

Select Committee on Satelligence

T.S. Honse ut Representatives

Washington, 19,6. 20515

July 30, 1975

"..

".

тинає

howattor

x4104

Mr.

K

• William O'Connor

Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination

U.S. Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Dear Mr. O'Connor:

This is to formally request various materials which

Mr. Eugene W.

Walsh of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,

on

July 29, 1975, agreed to turn over to this Committee, to-

the Spring Planning Call submitted to the FBI

by

the Department o Justice; 2) the Spring Planning Call response

sent by the FBI to the Department of. Justice; and 3) the

en vear budger coarts indicating resource allocations arenarsi

by Dale W. Anderson for the GAO;

Furthermore, we request briefings,

as soon as possible,

between Messrs. Vermeire and Oliphant of our staff and Messis.

R. G.

Hunsinger (Deputy Assistant Director, Administrative

•Division), L. C. Groover (Budget and Accounting Section Chief),

D. I. Anderson (Budget Formulation and Presentation Unit),

J. J. Clynick sudget and Accounting Section, and T. I. Knowles

(Special Detail Unit), all of the Federal Bureau of Investi-

gation.

We further request that Messis. Vermeice and Oliphant be

budgetary information already provided

Conmittee.

We further request & briefing betucen Messrs. Vermeire and

Oliphant and Glen I. Pomerening, Assistant Attorney Genexal For.

Administration.

Thank you for your cooperation.

I2L 112

PECTED

JUL

Sincerely,

100

54971

DocId: 32989721

ties

*Page

35

ENCLOSURE Staff Dibictor and Chief Counsci

---

## Page 36

The Deputy Attorney General

(Attention: Michael &. Shaheen,

Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination)

Director, FBI

1 - Mr. Adams - Enc.

1 - Mr. Wannall - Enc.

1 - Mr. Mintz - Enc.

September 5, 1975

1 - Mr. Cregar - Enc.

1 - Mr. Hotis - Enc.

1 - Mr. Daly - Enc.

PROPOSED LETTER TO IR. PHILIP W.

SUCIEN, COUNSEL TO TEL PEESIDENT,

SEDALIOL

IN DICINCE ACROZINS.

11.1110

- 75

Attached is a proposed letter requested by ir. Phillip W.

Buchen, Counsel to the Fresident, concerning the naed for consolidation

of Congressional inquíries into activities of agencies within the intelli-

gence community. The letter briefly outlines some of the problems

created by the proliferation of committces exercising oversight responsi

bilities in this area and calls for the croation of a joint oversight

committee in Congress.

i/.2

Enclosure

UNRECORDED COPY FILED

:111-

ENCLOSUA NOTE: Reference Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams memorandum jointly captioned

"HOUSTUDY, SENSTUDY 75," dated 8-29-75. This memorandum reported

the results of a meeting of the Policy Steering Gröup on 8-27-75 at which

Mr. Phillip W. Buchen, Counsel to the President, requested that we prepare a

letter to him setting forth problems created by the Congressional inquiries into

the Bureau and suggesting the need for creation of a joint oversight committee.

Michael Shaheen, Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination, suggested

that the letter be prepared for the Deputy Attorney General's signature for

Dep. AD Adm,submission to Mr. Buchen.

Dep. AD Inv. -

REC 4'

6211646465

Admin.

Comp, Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. -

Gen. inv. -

Ident.

Inspection -

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv. -

Training -

Legal Count. c

Telephone Rm. -

Difector

MAILED 7.

SEP & 1975

SEP 9 1975

-110 ..

JBH: dkg:

ROOM L

69721

Page 36

XEROS!

SEP. 1'9 1975

mB

TELETYPE UNIT L

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 37

Honozable Phillip l. Luchen

Counoel to the Presidont

The Thite House

Washingtes, D. C. 20500

Doar fr. Huchon:

This is in rosponce to your request for our

vicus concorning ths nood for consolidation of the

various Congressional inquirios into the activities os

tho Ioderal Burcan of Invectigation and othor investi

gativa agcacics in the Eopartiont of Justico.

As you know, the nucher of Comrcasional

Committeco cpressing

logiolntive or ovcraight intorest

in thoso agencies has inercased significuntly in the rast

several ronths.

In addition to Select Corniticet in the

Louse and Donato, at least & half dozen othor Comittees

of Congroso sic prosently inquizine into the activitico of

these agencios.

It appears, for overple, tlut oversight

Iosponsibilities in the House over the II arc shareú by

the Subcomiticos on Civil and Constitutional Rights;

Courts, Civil Libccico and tho Adinictration of Justice;

and the Subcormittee or Covcrrent Intomation ard Inéi

vidual Rights.

Ile have also boch invited to testify beforc

che Subcorwittee on Postal Facilitios, lail and Labor

landrocent on patters rolating to the incorcuption of the

nails. Vast anounts of inforation and docurents have

been provided thus far to the scubors anu staff persorrel

af scoral of these Comicroco, and brickings hove boon

conducted co the lost sonsitive operationa of Coverreat.

As a concral rule,

these Gormitteos are staited

by rersonnel who have licited Inowledge shout the functiona

and responaibilitios of the intelligence corunity. In

an osfost to provide the basic infomation nccaod for an

intelligent judiment in these tatters, ve have conducted

a nubor of briosings for atnal norbera of these Cornittees.

12-11.1

FELOSURE

TH

54974

DocId: 32989721

Page 37

---

## Page 38

Honorable Phillip W. Buchen

This 1s a time-consuming process and one which must be

of agency personnel. In sOMe Cases, these IntervieWI

Involve alleged lmpioniletles or matters being revieved

by this Departuent foI possIble pIosecUtion. Inis place.

he employee In a very diffioult situation, particularls

when he 18 called upon repeatedly to justify his actions

Not only does

this disrupt the normal routine of the agency, but it tends

to undermine the norale of lts employees.

We have experienced considerable difficulty

establishing guidelines for these interviews and for the

revlew or production of documents in agency files.

After

some months of negotiations with the Senate Saleet Coumittee,

ve finally agreed upon certain procedures in these natters.

It appears, however, these procedures are not acceptable to

the liouse Select Connittee which prefers to deal with each

request on an ad boc basis. He can expect similar problema

with other Cormittees of Congress, each of which is concerned

about preserving its own autonomy and carrying out what it

perceives to be a separate legialative or overaight mandate.

This makes 1t necessary for us to respond in different ways

to different Conmittees of Congress, even though there 18

considerable overlap in the type of

• Infornation requested.

As you might expect these demands Impose a

substantlal adainistrative burden on each of the agencles

Involved.

In an effort to minimize this problen, I have

appointed a Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination

uno reports alrectly to me in these matters.

The Bureau

has also creatad a special untt to handle these requests,

staffed by several Agent and clerical personnel. Monetheless

the demands have been so great that 1t 1s often imposalble

to comply in a manner which 1s satisfactory to the Committees.

In my opinion, we will soon be at a point where the effort

needed to comply in a complete and timely fashion to Congres-

sional demande v111 serioualy undermine the ability of these

agencies to cary out their normal investigative responsibilities.

- 2 .

1H 54974

DocId: 32989721 Page 38

---

## Page 39

Honorable Phillip W. Buchen

I am also concerned about the cositility of

compromising extIenely sensitive sourcer

no ongoin

investigations.

While it 1a not ry intertion to duestion

the Integrity of Congressional stalf tel'rs, the vide-

spread dissenination of these materiala inevitibly

Increases the likelihood of impisper disclosure.

The

problem is negravated in the House by Rule 1? which

provides that Information furnisted to a Coumittoo is

avallable upon request to any verber of the House.

As

you know, Rule 7.3 of the House Rules fnr the Select

Cormittee on Intelligence Activitics states that,

such time as the comittee hus subuitted its final report

to the House, classified of other sensitive Information

In the committee records and files shall not be nade

evallaile or disclosed to other then the committee nenber-

ship and the committee staff

" except aa may be otherwise

deterined by the committee.

It is not at all clear,

however,

whether the Cormittee Rules supersede established

rules of the House. Furthermore, Rule 7.3 does not deal

with the ultinate disposition of

such materials once the

Cormittee has eubuitted its final report.

Until this matter

1s resolved, we have no real assurmce that this infornetion

will be afforded the proper safeguardo.

These problens can be greatly alleviated eithout

any impaliment of Congressional resporsibilities by the

creation of a joint oversight Cormittee.

A consolidation

of the oversight functions it one Conrittee would reduce

duplication of effort and enhance the ability of the

Congress to acquire the Inforration needed for an Intel-

ligent and reasoned judgment in these matters. It would

also mininize the coupetitive atmosphere which presently

exists among some of these Committees.

I would urge,

therefore, that such a proposal be made to the joint

leadership of Congress, vith a view toward the prompt

resolution of this issue.

- 3 -

NH 54974

DocId: 32989721 Page 39

---

## Page 40

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

8

HH

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAT 1Yo2 LOMON

GSA FPAIR 141 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED' STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. Adams

DATE: 8-29-75

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Ac

Dep. AD In

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. _

Gen. Inv. _

Ident. -

Legal Counsel

HOUSTUDY -75

SENSTUDY - 75

This memorandum reports. the results of a meeting

of the Policy Steering Group held at CIA Headquarters

8-27-75.

In Mr. Colby's absence, the meeting was chaired

by Major General Jack E. Thomas (Ret.), Acting Deputy Associat

Director of the DCI for the Intelligence Community.

attendance were Mr. Philip Buchen,

Counsel to the President,

James. A. Wilderotter, Associate Counsel to the President,

Mitchell Rogovin, Special Counsel to the Director of Central

Intelligence, Michael E. Shaheen, the Department's Special

Counsel for Intelligence Coordination, Inspector John B. Hotis,

SA Leon F. Schwartz and representatives of the State Department

Department of the Treasury, Department of Defense, Office of

Management and Budget, and the National Security Agency.

The primary purpose of the meeting was to discuss

current relations with the House Select Committee.

Mr. Rogovin

Special Counsel to the Director of Central Intelligence, said

he met earlier that day with A. Searle Field, Staff Director

of the. House Select Committee on Intelligence Activities and

discussed several

topics of interest to the intelligence. com-

munity.

Field said that starting on 9-1/-15 the Committee,

to hold additional public hearings using the same general

format as in the past. At the outset, the Committee will call

The heads of the agencies will be asked to testify at the final

hearings held at the end of the year.

Rogovin said Mr. Field expressed concern about the fle

possibility that some agencies were intimidating witnesses.

was referring to the arrangement whereby agency employees who

appear as witnesses are required to write memoranda reporting

the substance of the interviews.

fleld was primarily concerned

about voluntary witnesses, those

"who might be coming in the

back door."

He agreed

however, to follow the procedures

Enclosure

ENCLOSORE

XEROXI

1. - Mr.

Adams - EnclosureEp 1 1975

1 - MrSECreg*75- Enclosure

- Mx.

Wannall - Enclosure hS

- Mx.. Hotis - Enclosure

+ Mr. Mintz - Enclosure

1 - Mr Daly - Enclosure

532 9pg

ONT INUED

So OcTa: 329897 Ruy Fue Suings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

- OVER

62-

---

## Page 41

Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams Memo

Re:

HOUSTUDY, SENSTUDY - 75

interviews versus investigative interviews.

Although it woul

se possible to have an Agent present during the investigative

was a discussion of abuse practices. This, of course, would

not prevent an individual from having counsel of his own

choice present during the interview.

supply counsel as

a potential conflict of interest and that the counsel's first

allegiance is to the agency.

It was pointed out that the

Department of Justice has taken the position that a potential

• conflict of interest prevented it from providing counsel for

the employees during these interviews.

He was told that

the Department of Justice is researching the question of

whether the Government can reimburse an employee who finds

it necessary to employ private counsel at his own defense:

Rogovin said he felt that the Department's position was

inconsistent with its participation in the lawsuits involving

Haldeman,

Ehrlichman, Mitchell, et al., in which

the Department

is providing legal representation. Rogovin said he believed

an effort was underway to set up a panel of attorneys in

Washington who might represent such employees as a public

service.

Rogovin said he had been advised that Edward Roder

had recently been dismissed from his position as staff

investigator by Mr. Field.

will return to his

Sun" and "leak" information obtained in his capacity as staff

Investigator. He asked Rogovin Ior advice on how he thought

22222

Field is now concerned that Roder

former job as a reporter for the "Baltimore

the secrecy agreement signed by the Committee staff members

• could best be enforced in this case. Field asked to be advised

of any inconsistencies where members of his staff used poor

judgment: Rogovin cited a recent case in which a staff

investigator asked a senior official of CIA who spoke with a

noticeable accent whether he had ever been a member of the

German Intelligence Service.

Rogovin said Field insisted upon learning the

identity of all informants and proprietaries, including

officers and directors. He was told that this information

CONTINUED - OVER

- 2 -

HH 54974 DooId:32989721

Page 41

---

## Page 42

Legal Counsel to Mr.. Adams Memo

Re: HOUSTUDY, SENSTUDY - 75

would not be furnished to him, since it is

given very limited

dissemination even within the intelligence

conmunity. Field

said this position demonstrates

a lack of trust toward the

Committee and its staff members and a failure to respect their

legislative mandate.

Rogovin said that is not the issue; rather

it is whether it is wise to entrust all that sensitive informa-

tion to one person.

• As a final item he said that Congressman Les. Aspin

had asked for a briefing on electronic surveillance practices.

Rogovin said Aspin is one of the brightest members on the

Committee and can be a leader in molding the opinion of the

Committee.

Wilderotter said we should not honor. Aspin's request

until we have some

assurances that he will maintain the confi-

dentiality of such information. He suggested that we hold up

until the Committee has a better track record."

Rogovin then asked for. comments from those in

attendance concerning a draft letter from Mr. Colby as Director

of Central Intelligence to Congressman Pike concerning procedures

that would be followed with respect to requests for documents

and interviews of witnesses (copy attached).

Mr. William G.

Hyland, Director of Intelligence and Research,

Department of

State, said that his Department will not provide a reading room

for Committee staff members, nor will they give a brief

description of documents belonging to another agency.

It was

suggested and agreed that the wording of the draft letter will

be revised to eliminate any references to a "brief description"

of documents withheld for Third Agency clearances.

The question of the ultimate disposition of documents

and other materials furnished the Committee was raised once

again.

Several of the attendees expressed serious concern

about the failure of the draft letter to take a firm position

on the need for a resolution of this issue. It was pointed out

that all of the ultimate safeguards and procedures would be to

this matter is resolved. Mr. Buchen felt,

however, this was not a realistic position to take and instructed

Rogovin to alter the wording of the letter to strengthen the

demand that a prompt decision be made in this matter.

CONTINUED - OVER

-3-

54974 DocId: 32989721 Page 42

---

## Page 43

Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams Memo

Re: HOUSTUDY, SENSTUDY - 75

Mr. Hotis said that the list of sensitive categories

set out in the draft letter was not broad enough to meet the

Bureau's needs.

It was pointed out; for example, that the

list did not. extend to information the disclosure of which

would jeopardize ongoing investigations.

noted that the agency was permitted to withhold names of

citizens or organizations only where it had "pledged" confi-

dentiality. Mr. Rogovin agreed to change the wording to

include persons or organizations with whom the agencies had

a confidential relationship. Mr. Buchen said that the letter

would not be sent on behalf of the entire intelligence community.

"how this would fly" and if it was successful

each agency. could draft similar letters. tailored to meet its

own needs.

It was also agreed that the wording in the last

Paragraph of page 2 of

the letter dealing with deliberative

documents would be changed to insure that it would apply to all

documents: involved in the exécutive decision-making processes.

At the close of the meeting Mr. Hotis expressed

grave concern over the

growing number of Congressional Committees

exercising oversight responsibilities over the FBI.

In addition

to the Select Committees of both Houses, staff members of the

House Subcommittees on Civil and Constitutional Rights and

Government Information and Individual Rights. have recently

contacted present or former employees of the Bureau in an effort

to. conduct interviews. We have also received requests: from

: Postal Facilities,

Mail and Labor Management for information on Bureau practices

regarding electronic surveillances and mail openings, respectively.

Not only does this impose a severe administrative burden on the

Bureau, but it also increases the likelihood that sensitive

information furnished to these Committees will eventually be

compromised. Mr. Hotis said that there was an urgent need for

consolidation of these Committees and suggested it would be

helpful if the Administration discussed such proposals with

leaders of Congress.

Mr. Buchen agreed and asked that a

letter. be directed to him setting forth the problems, which

could serve as a basis for a memorandum to the President. . He

said the President might discuss this matter at his next meeting

with joint leadership of the Congress. Michael Shaheen, Special

Counsel for Intelligence Coordination, Later suggested to

Mx.. Hotis that the letter be prepared for the Deputy. Attorney

General's signature for submission to. Mr. Buchen.

RECOMMENDATION

CONTINUED - OVER

• - 4 -

HIH

54974 DocId: 32989721 Page

43

---

## Page 44

Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams Memo

Re: HOUSTUDY, SENSTUDY

- 75

RECOMMENDATION:

That Legal Counsel Division prepare a draft letter

for the Deputy Attorney General's signature to Mr. Buchen

expressing the need for consolidation of various Congressional

Committees inquiring into the activities of the Bureau and

other agencies in the intelligence community.

88 gra

Draft letter

9-8-75.j1811

• = 5 -

HH 54974

DocId: 32989721

Page 14

---

## Page 45

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

the Honorable Otis G. Pike, Chairman

Select Committee on Intelligence

House of REpresentatives

Washington, D. C. 20515

Dear Chairman Pike:

On July 25th I left with you a packet of materials

concerning procedures that might be appropriate in

handling the variety of demands your committee will

be making upon the Agency in the months to come.

Since

then we have had a number of frank discussions regarding

security and other aspects of your Committee's

investigation.

In addition, the Committee's Staff

Director has held a series of discussions with our

Special Counsel and members of my staff.

With this then

as background, let me suggest the adoption of certain

procedures that I believe will insure our ability to

respond promptly and fully to the needs of the Conmittee.

•I. Documents:

Upon receipt of a written request for documents

dealing with a particular area of inquiry, the Agency will

promptly respond with an answer, a partial response or

at least a-statement as to when the materials will be

available.

To insure that there are no misunderstandings

as to the materials requested, I have encouraged our staff

to contact your staff members and discuss the precise

nature of any request not clear on its. face. Further,

our staff has been instructed to make materials available

as soon as they are ready and not hold up a response

until all of the materials requested have been compiled.

When documents are withheld because clearance is being

sought from

another Agency, your committee will be notified.

and a brief description of the document will be given.

• XEROX

SEP. I'Y 1975

me. so.

WH 54974 DocId: 32989721 Page 45

lo: 116964-14

ENCLOSUN;

AMERICAN

1776-1976,

THINNE

---

## Page 46

To assist us in servicing your requests we have

asked that where practical, the request for documents be

as specific as possible and that your staff coordinate

their requests so that House Select Committee priorities

will be given to the various demands.

We have set up a

reading room at the Agency where documents will be made

• available for examination.

• With respect to the documents to be made available.

to the Committee, there are certain sensitive materials

that must be protected not only from exposure but even the

risk of exposure. Included in this sensitive category

are:

--names of agents and sources;

--names of persons involved in Agency operations

who would he subject to personal, physical

danger, to extreme harassment or

to economic

or other reprisals if their names were to be

publicly identified:

--material

provided confidentially by.cooperating

foreign intelligence services;

--details that would reveal the nature of sensitive

intelligence methods and techniques of collection,

•by technical and human means;

-names of cooperating Americans and American

... .

organizations and contacts to whom we have

pledged confidentiality.

been instructed

in order to place the material in context. Where your

staff believes that a particular name or detail is critical

to their inquiry, this then should be brought to the

attention of our staff and the matter can be negotiated.

I. believe this procedure is.consistent with your statement

to me that the Committee is not interested in our sources

and methods, or in the names of agents.

Finally, some proposed testimony and requests for.

documents may enter the area of the executive decision-

making process in which the need to protect the

confidentiality of advice or recommendations to policy-

making bodies has long been recognized. This would apply,

2

HH 54974 • DocId: 32989721

Page

46°

---

## Page 47

for example, to Presidential or 40 Committee deliberations

relating to

approval of CIA actions:

Where such a

circumstance exists, we would advise- the Committee that

executive approval is being sought and that we would be

in further touch with your staff on the matter.

We will want to work together, too, to protect certain

other information which, if improperly disclosed, could impair

• the legitimate rights of privacy of individuals.

I am sure

with these matters so as to protect

this essential

privacy while satisfying the Select Committee's need for a

full understanding of intelligence activities.

II.

Witnesses:

You doubtless will want to interview present and

former CIA employees.. Current employees will, of course, be

made available to the Select Committee for staff interviews

and for testimony.

This on rare occasions may require

special

arrangements, including testimony under alias, to

protect the identity of employees whose safety or future

utility might be jeopardized by. exposure. With respect to

the interview of Agency employees who are currently

detail to other agencies in the government and whose

testimony relates to CIA matters, we will arrange with the

host agency to make the employee available upon request of

the Committee.

Where the employee is sought to testify with

respect to matters concerning his detail or matters relating

to the host agency, we will bring your request to the

attention of the host agency. Thus, if your staff will advise

us of whom they wish to interview, we will make the

appropriate arrangements with

our employees

While I have

authority to direct the

cooperation of ex-employees

will be happy to assist you in any I can. In a very few

cases, their identities also will have to be protected.

As you know, each employee had to sign a security

agreement. upon entering.on duty.This..requires that he

keep forever secret all classified information gained

during his employment, unless he obtains prior authorization

These secrecy agreements

signed by our employees and ex-employees need not impair

the necessary work of your Committee.

In view of the

security protection contemplated by your Committee,

I have determined that disclosure of otherwise protected

information to teh Select Committee or its designated

staff members will, inmost instances,

constitute a fully

authorized provision of information within the meaning

of the secrecy agreements.

This letter may be used to

3

HH 54974 • DocId: 32989721 Page 47

---

## Page 48

"indicate authorization for any Agency employee to furnish

information to the Select Committee or to appropriate

staff members on matters which otherwise would be

covered by their secrecy agreement. Where, however, the

answer to the particular question covers the highly

sensitive matters mentioned above, the employee or

former employee is obligated to consult with the Agency.

before responding.

In this regard, the Agency should be

notified before the Committee contacts each Agency employee

or ex-employee who is to be interviewed or called to

testify.

I attach a separate letter addressed to CIA

ex-employees which should be shown to them for the

same purpose.

Since so many of our activities involve sensitive

areas, I propose a procedure which should aid the Committee

in expediting its investigation. If the Committee will

notity Mitchell Rogovin,

Special Counsel to the Director,

the areas of its inquiry at the outset, we would be

in

a position to highlight particularly sensitive issues

and work out methods to insure that your Committee obtains

what it needs without unnecessary risk to the sensitive

matters.

We will then be in a position to advise the

Committee whether any particularly sensitive issues

may be involved. Such

a procedure will insure you get

the information you need to perform your task and at the

same time safeguard sensitive intelligence sources and

methods which I am obligated by law to protect.

In conclusion, we ask that your Committee make an

early determination as to the ultimate disposition of its

records upon completion of its tasks..I

will join me in recognizing that permanent, Safe You

and security safeguards will be necessary to protect the

sensitivity of the Committee's records.

To this end you

may wish to discuss permanent disposition with the

Archivist of the United States.

= •a

do no is

It is in our mutual interests to ensure that your

review proceeds as smoothly and as expeditiously as

possible.

Toward that end, I have instructed all CIA

personnel to respond in a spirit of cooperation.

copy of that

instruction is attached. And, I am prepared

to consult with the Committee at any time tò determine

appropriate courses of action.

Sincerely,

W. E. Colby

Director

Enclosures

HH 54974 DocId:32989721 Page

48

---

## Page 49

IBI

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

September 12, 1975

TO:

Paul Daly, FBI

FROM:

Steven Blackhurst

Assistant Special Counsel for

Heistiedy

-75

Intelligence Coordination

Guidelines for HSC Request re Bast & Uffinger

SUBJECT:

Attached is a copy of the guidelines for responding to

You will note

letter to Mike Shaheen dated September 8, which is also attached.

As I told you today, Tim Oliphant was told by me that the

FBI would have available on Monday and/or Tuesday all FBI files

in which Mr. Bast was the subject of a criminal investigation

and all files related to Donald Uffinger.

,EX-106

REG-61

2-116-4604-663

5 SEP 17 1:75

Z ENCLOSURE:

62-116464

5-madite

---

## Page 50

!

These guidelines apply to the HSC request, for materials

related to Donald Uffinger and Richard Bast and to the HSC request

to interview five special agents of the FBI.

1. The request relates to the FBI, not DEA.

2. The request is for access to materials, not for

delivery.

3. HSC agrees not to use the materials to which they are

given access in such a fashion as would jeopardize either the DOJ

criminal investigation or the DoJ position in Bast v. Kelley.

-This includes but is not limited to disclosing information

to either Bast or Uffinger or their attorneys.

4. Excluded from the materials to which the HSC will be

given access are:

(a) the work product of DoJ attorneys;

(b) the identities of FBI confidential sources; —

(c) materials provided to the FBI by other agencies

of goverrment. (This material is subject to the third-agency

rule.)

(d) certain material concerning Uffinger which is

unrelated to Bast. (This is subject to oral explanation.)

5. DOJ attorneys will be present during HSC interviews of

FBI agents named as defendants in Bast v. Kelley.

6. These guidelines apply to this matter only and have no

precedential value or effect.

116-116464-

63

ENCLOSURE

54974

DocId: 32989721 Page 50

---

## Page 51

OTIS G. PIKE, N. Y., CHAIRMAN

ROBERT N, GIAIMO, CONN.

KOBERT MCCLORY, ILL.

JAMES V. STANTON, OHIO

DAVID C. TREEN, LA.

RONALD Y. DIÜ LUMS, CALIF

JAMES P. JOMNSON, COLO.

MIXIGAN F. MURPHY, ILL.

ROBERT W. KASTEN, JR., WIS.

LES ASPIN, WIS.

DALE MILFORD, TEX.

PHILIP H. HAYES, IND.

WILLIAM LEHMAN, FLA.

TELEPHONE: (202) 225-9751

Delect Committee on Intelligence

U.S. House of Representatives

Washington, Đ.C. 20515

September 8, 1975

Mr.

Michael t. shaneen, Jr.

Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination

U.S. Department of Justice

Washington, D. C.

20530

Dear Mr. Shaheen:

Pursuant to the meeting attended by Messrs. Paul Daly,

yourself and Messis. Oliphant and Vermeire

one yeptember 8, 1975; and pursuant further to the subsequent

telephone call between Messrs. Oliphant and Blackhurst on the

same date, we agree to the guidelines proposed by the Department

of Justice pertaining to access to materials related to Donald

Uffinger and Richard Bast and to the interview.of five special

agents of the FBI with the following modifications:

1. The Select Committee on Intelligence will inform the

Department of Justice of any proposed use of the materials.

The Department of Justice will advise the Select Committee of

any objections to

the proposed use.

Any problems that cannot

be solved at the initial level will be referred to Chairman Pike

and Attorney General Levi for ultimate resolution..

Sincerely,

•A.

Searle Field

Staff Director

RECEIVED

DRACE DE LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS

ZEFUTY AFFORNEY GENERAL

PE

10

602-116-413

WH 54971 DocId:32989721

Page 51

211

SEP 11 1975

L RAO.

attention

MILLING DESCE OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS

25pum

---

## Page 52

-ad:

-

1

Mc. W. V. Cleveland (RTFR)

W. M. Gallagher

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1

- Mr.

J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mx. W. Re Wannall

Septenber 10, 1975

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

1 - Mr. J. W. Johnson

The Attorney General

Director,

FBI

UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRICENTATIVES

SELECT

COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE (HSC)

Reference is made to a letter from the HSC dated

August 19, 1975, requesting certain documents and other infor

mation from the FBI.

reat

Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the

Committee is a letter from Director,

FBI, to Chairman Otis G.

Pike, HSC, dated September 10, 1975.

In addition to the six proprietaries mentioned in thê

enclosed letter, the FBI has contributed a limited amount os)

funds to another ongoing operation in the organized crime

field,

which is primarily funded by another agency. As this proprietary.

is not maintained by the TBI, no briefing concerning this

operation will be furnished

the HSC by this Bureau.

=

A copy of the letter involved is being furnished for

your records.

Enclosures - 2

SEC20 2-146444-6188

62-116464

DO FEB 17 1976

I - The Deputy Attorney General

Attention:

Michael E. Shaheen, 3r.

111/76

Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

9:01711

ANTOROSURE

531

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

(11)

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.=

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv. -

Ident. -

Inspection -

Intell. -

Laboratory

Plon. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv. -

Training .

Legal Coun. _

Telephone Rm. -

Director See'y -

MAIL ROOM

MB 49EB 20411976989721

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 52

pLa

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 53

< ні

1 - Mr. W. M. Gallagher

I - Mr. W.

V. Cleveland

2 - Mr.

J. I. Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Ms. W

0. Cregar

1 - Mr. J. W. Johnson

Septenber 10, 1975

Honorable Otis G. Pike

Chaizmar, Select Conmittee on Intelligence

United States House of Representatives

Washington, D. C.

Dear It. Chairman:

Refcrence is bado to a

letter of Mr. A. Seazle Fiold,

Stair Director of the Houce Soleot Conmittee (ESC) to tho

Honorable Edword H. Levi, Attornoy General of the United States

dated August 19, 1975, wherein the ISC requested a list of

proprietaries maintained by the FBI.

In response to the above inquiry, I wish to inform

you that this Bureau is currently maintaining a total of siz

operations in the national security and organized crime £leld...

proprietaries.

oporations and as disclosure of such information could seriously

impair on going investigations and/or result in physical injury

those Involved,

I kill discuss these

opcrations with

at a mutually agrocable tine.

REC-S

62-11ir

I - The Attorney General

EX-ZEpoctaully,

(IX

23 FEB 1Y 1976

Clarence l. Rolley

Director

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. _

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. _

Comp.Syst.c

Ext. Affairs -

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv. _

Idept. -

Inspection -

Intell. -

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. _

Spec. Inv. -

Training

Legal Coun. _

Telephone Rm. -

WU:

1149

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

wue

4171

TELETYPE UNIT

GRO 954-546

---

## Page 54

Honorable Otis G. Pike

NOTE:

SECRET

(5) A surveY of section Chiels by SA James Fe Johnson,

Intelligence Division indicated two proprietaries (businesses)

are maintained; code name cases Korsaj and Toolup are maintained

in conjunction with the Orkid case.

Orkid is code name for

our program to technically penetrate the new Soviet . embassy

complex at Mount Alto, Visconsin Avenue, Northwest, Washington,

D. C. Korsaj is code name for our purchase and subsequent

management, through a cutout, of the apartment building,

Highviey Tovers, 2700 Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest, Vashington,

D. C. Toolup is code name for the rented test facilities for

equipment and techniques being developed under the Orkid program.

The facilities are located at 2301 and 2361 South Jefferson Davis

Highway, Arlington, Virginia.

(5)

Senstudy Representative SA J. William Hines, General

Investigative Division, advised no proprietaries are currently

being naintained.

(S)

A survey by Senstudy Representative John E. McHale

indicates the Special Investigative Division is currently

conducting four proprietary operations in the field of organized

crime, which, to date, have cost a total of $44,000 in building

and equipment rental,

utility and freight employees, the pu chase

of office supplies, property inventory, eic.

(some of which vill

be recoverable at the conclusion of the investigations).

(S) These are active ongoing cases, the disclosure of such

information could result in physical harm to individuals involved.

A briefing in general terminology on these operations is being

prepared. The IBI has also assisted a number of state and local

agencies utilizing their own funds and/or grants from the Law

Enforcenent Assistance Administration (LEMA) •

The only such proprietary currently in operation has

been called to the attention of the Department in the cover letter.

This operation is primarily funded by IEAl.

Appropriate briefing material vill be prepared by

representatives of interested Divisions, upon notification this

procedure is acceptable to use

Classified by 4091, XGDS

2 and 3, Indefinite.

SECRET

-2-

54974 DooId: 32989721

Page 54

---

## Page 55

Serial Charge-Out

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

RECORD/ INFORMATION DISSEMINATION SECTION

SERIAL CHARGE OUT

This Document Has Been Removed

TOP SECRET MATERIAL

Document can be located in the SCIF, ICRC

CONTACT UC BETTY WEAVER FOR ACCESS TO

DOCUMENTS

NOTE TO DISCLOSURE:

Please proceed as usual processing other documents in the request.

FOIPA # 1202241

File # HQ 62-116464

Date of Mail

Date 12/57/2

Analyst John Adair Miller

Serial 73 +61+61x

Page (s) l

Initials JAM$

Team WPU

SERIAL CHARGE-OUT

Approved:6/24/03 DMH

H 54974 DocId:32989721 Page 55

---

## Page 56

The Attorney General

Director, FBI

U. /S. HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENGE ACTIVITIES (HSC)

2- Mr. J.

A. Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Cleveland

September 10g 1975

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr.

W. 0. Cregar

1 - Mr. T. J. McNiff

A copy of this memorandum is being furnished for your

records.

Enclosures (5)

62-116464

. * The Deputy Attorney Genera

Attention:

Michael E. Shaheen, Jx

Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

TJM: adn ait is

(10)

REC61

EX: 106

62-1164101

5 SEP 1Y 1975

3

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com..

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Iotell.

Laboratory

Plon. & Eval. _

Spec. Inv. -

Troining

Legal Coun. -

Telephone Rm. _

S4SH8 589752989721

TELETYPE UNIT E

Page 56

SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 57

--

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Cleveland

I - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mc. W. 0. Cregar

Septembes 10, 1975

1 = Mr. T. J. McNiff

U. S. HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

OST ENTCULIGEICE ACTIVITIES (HSC)

RE: REQUESTS EOR SECIZONS 107, 108 AND 130

OF THIS DUNCAU*S MANUAL ON INSTRUCTIONS

Reference is nade. to ISC

letter dated August 29, 1975

requesting delivery of Sections 101, 108 and 130 of

Manual of Instructions

co the ISC,

In compliance with the above

request there is enclosed for the

HSC one copy of each of tha

above three enumerated sections.

Enclosures (3)

1 - The Attorney General

ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO AG

TJM: adn a.m

(9)

NOTE:

Referenced HSC letter 8/29/75 requests delivery of above

Manual sections which have previously been made available to HSC

staff members for review at FBI Headquarters.

with security informants, Section 108 deals with criminal informants

and Section 130 deals with extremist informants.

Sections 107 and

130 have previously been made available to members of the Senate

Select Committee by memorandum dated 8/1/75. Special Agent

Asso. Dir. John E. McHale, Special Investigative Division on 9/5/75 advised

Dep. AD Admthat Division has no objection to furnishing HSC with a copy of 108.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst. _

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. _

Gen. Inv. -

Ident..

Inspection

Intell. -

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv. _

Training

Legal Coun..

Telephone Rm. _

Director Soey -

MAIL ROOM L

MH 54974

DocId: 32989721

BERNES SUPERAL ATTACHED

TELETYPE UNT 62-111:

Page 57

1.1

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 58

.......

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

Addressee:

House Select Committee

OLTR

• Memo

• Report dated _

9/10/75

Caption House Select Committee. 8/29/75 Request

Kquit Requests for Sections 107, 108 and 130

of this Bureau's Manual of Instruction p

FBI

Received by

Wh 54974

DocId: 32989721

Page 58

-INCLOSURE

12-114-164-61

---

## Page 59

•: SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

BEFORE COMPLETING.

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

TO:

Intelligence Community Staff

FROM:

ATTN: Central Index

19T

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1. HOW

PROVIDED

If a document was made available

so note.)

DOCUMENT

BRIEFING

INTERVIEW

I TESTIMONY |

JOTHER

3. ТО WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term;

add specific names if appropriate)

2. DATE PROVIDED

9/10/75

SSC

* HSC

• IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; five name or identification number of briefer

interviewee, testifier and subject

Memorandun and enclosures

S. WY SPoNs robal sedate of (iten, mber aldo, esponse formal request, other-

HSC letter 8/29/75

6. CLASSIFICATION OF

$

Ised one enter

fore pasopriate key words from the list provided separately: if key words not listed are

Operating procoduras

•8. SUMMARY (see reverse side before completinó this item)

Sections 107, 208 cad 130 of the borenu's Manual of

Instructions.

38-116494

FUR: Enl

(4)

ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX

IN CONNECTION WITH ACUSTUDY 75

TREAT AS VELLON

So Wools

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

379| (6-75)

WH 54974 DocId: 32989721 Paye 59

---

## Page 60

INSTRUCTIONS

• Type or print clearly in ink.

• Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

• "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the

information.

• If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to

HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a

copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing

substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be

noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,

e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased; whether

interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript

is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional

ages may be attached if necessary.

7.405

74 54974

DocId: 32989721

Page 60

---

## Page 61

2 - Mr. J.

Mintz

(1

- Mx. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr. W. 0. Cregar

1 - Mr. I. J. MeNiff

September 9, 1975

The Attorney General

Director, FBI

0

S. HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (HSC)

Reference is made to HSC letter dated September 2,

1975, requesting information and documents relating to

domestic surreptitious entries or "break-ins" engaged in by

the FBI for the National Security Agency or the service

cryptologic agencies, as well as a description of FBI

involvement in obtaining copies of diplomatic and other

international printed messages from common carrier corporations

in Washington, D. C.

Pursuant to instructions received September 4, 1975

by Section Chief W. 0. Gregar of this Bureau from Michael I

Shaheen, JI., Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination,

Department of Justice, this Bureau is holding in abeyance

responses to the above HSC inquiries pending receipt of

additional instructions from the Department as to the manner

and extensiveness of responses to be made by this Bureau in

these sensitive areas.

62-116464

E: 206

REC-61

621104:1

1 - The Deputy Attorney General

Attention:

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.

Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

ії:

-Assoc. Dir Adm. IJM: 1hb lhb

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv. _

(9)

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Sysi. - NOTE:

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com._

Gen. Inv..

At a White House briefing

; on 9/3/75 dealing with

Ident.

sensitive matters such as surreptitious entries and electronic

inspition interception, it was decided by those in attendance that members

Loboratory of the intelligence community should be most circumspect in

Ple. fEvl providing the HSC with information relating to these sensitive

Training -

Legal Coun. -

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE 2

Telephone Rm.

SEA 1 8 4975 ROOM C

49'

DooId:32989721

TELETYPE UNIT C

Page 61

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 62

The Attorney General

NOTE CONTINUED:

subjects. During the above-mentioned contact on 9/4/75 with

Mr. Shaheen, the latter advised that he would contact appro-

priate individuals at the White House to determine how inquiries

relating to these sensitive subjects vill be handled by members

of the

intelligence community.

- 2 -

AH 54974 DocId: 32989721

Page 62

---

## Page 63

2 - Mr. J.

Mintz

(1 - M

J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mc. H. R. Warnall

1 - Mc. W. 0. Cregar

1 - Mr. T. J. MeNiff

September 9, 1975

:

The Attorney Ceneral

Director, FBI

S. HOUSE SELECT: COMAL FIDE

INTELLIGENCE ACIIVITIES (HSC)

Reference is made to HSC letter dated September: 2,

1975, requesting information and documents relating to

domestic surreptitious entries or "brcak-ins" engaged in by

the FBI for the National. Security Agency of the service

cryptologic agencies, as well as a description of FBI

Involvement in obtaining copies of diploratic and ocher

international printed messages from comon carrler corpozations

In Washington, D. G.

1

Pursuent to instructions rcceived September 4, 1975,

by Section Chief W. O. Cragar of this Bureau fron lichasl Ey

Shaheen, Jr., Special Corsel for Intelligence Coordinstion,

Department of Justice, thls Bureau is holding in abeyance

cesponses to the above HSC inguleles pending recuipt of

additional instructions from the Department as to the inner

and extensiveness of responses to be made by this Bureau in

chese sensitive areas.

REC-6?

62-116464

4: 106

I. - The Deputy Attorney General

Attention:

Michael ", Shahean, Js.

Special Jounsel for

Intelligence Coordination

Assoc, Dir. =

Dep. AD Adm TJM: 1hb Ih'

Dep. AD Inv.

(9)

Asst. Dir.:

admin.

Comp. Syst.

NOTE:

Ext. Arfairs

"los & Com. -

Ident. —

in. sensitive matters such as

At a White House briefing on 9/3/75 denling wich

surrepticious entries and electron: :

sein-Interception, it was decided by those in attendance that members

Loboratory. Of the intelligence commity should be most circumspect in

sps. Iv_providing the HSC with inforation relating to these sensitive

Training ...

legol Coun. a

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE 2

Telophone Rm.

TELETYPE UNIT Ta

uno: 1 710-507-22

WW:54974

Draper a

Doctar1298972i page

Page 63

---

## Page 64

The Attorney General

NOTE CONTINUED:

subjects. During the above-mentioned contaci 0:11/4/7= wich

Mt. Shaheen, the latter advised Chat he would culcact ippro

priate individuals at the White House to determine how inquiries

relating to these sensitive subjects will be handled by rembers

of the intelligence community,

- 2 -

---

