# docid-32286517

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10195-10293

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-12-354

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/23/1962

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING ACT, BOOKMAKING, RES, TOLL CALLS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286517

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107

Mpite) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

FBI

Transmit the following in

Date: 7/23/62

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

SUBJECT :

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

SAC, DALLAS (94-55A-SUB)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel, 7/16/62.

RE: WILLIAM MEADOR SMITH, aka.;

ET AL

ITWI; ITAR - GAMBLING - BRIBERY; etc.

(DL 165-29)

By airtel, 7/12/62, Miami advised subject DAVIS arrived

in Miami via Delta Airlines at 10 p.m., 7/10/62. He was met at

the airport by an elderly man and driven to the apartment of

LOGAN L. VAN ZANDT, Miami Beach. The automobile used is registered

to J. VAN ZANDT, same address.

Miami ascertained that LOGAN VAN

ZANDT is a retired oil man with a monthly income of $8, 000, who

also maintains a residence at The Aurora, San Antonio. VAN ZANDT

has Miami phone number 866-8050.

Miami also advised GILBERT LEE

BECKLEY left Miami on or about 7/9/62, for Vancouver, B. C.

on 7/19/62, DL 95-C (Dallas 137-514) advised he had

learned from Dallas

hoodlum BARNEY GIBBS PAYNE that subject DAVIS

allegedly beat "the New Orleans syndicate" out of $18,000, and

the New Orleans people were looking for DAVIS and/or their

money. CI had no other details about this matter, but would

Bureau

Dallas

1

Dallas

Dallas

Dallas

Dallas

Dallas

Dallas

1

Dallas

Dallas

Dallas

RMB : pm

(13).

(165-29)

162-109)

92-611

92-292

104014

137-514)

162-961

87-10329)

162-143)

(94-55A-SUB)

REG-68 62-9-12-354

Exile Nuc

121ld:

15 JUL 25 1962

As sain

*Approved.

Sent

Special Agentsin Charge

•DocId: 32286517 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107 T

Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 94- 55A-SUB

attempt to obtain same from PAYNE. CI also advised subject-

referee REBA ODELL PRESTON was presently in Dallas to bowl

in the All-American Pro Bowling Classic, being held in Dallas.

The officials of the tournament, however, had refused to allow

PRESTON to participate because of his notoriety in connection

with the recent state hearings investigating fixing of SWC

basketball games by PRESTON and referee BILL D. JOHNSON.

advised PRESTON was

staying at the Belmont Motel.

CI

On 7/20/62,

a check at this motel verified CI's information. PRESTON

checked in 1/16/62, checked out 7/19/62, and no telephone

calls were made from his room.

Above information furnished orally on 7/20/62, to

Lt. JACK REVILL, Dallas Police Department, Intelligence

Section, and Deputy Sheriff BOB MORGAN, Dallas Sheriff's

Office..

RE: GEORGE FUQUA, aka.

(DL 92-61)

Inquiries

at FUQUA's residence on 7/16, 18, 19/62,

ascertained that neither FUQUA nor his wife, CHARLENE, had

returned to their Dallas residence and were probably still

in custody in Kansas.

On 7/22/62,

a Dallas newspaper article

stated Mrs. FUQUA had been released 7/21/62, on bond.

On 7/19/62, DL 95-C advised that FUQUA's close

associate, BARNEY GIBBS PAYNE, told CI he (PAYNE) was

attempting to raise the money for FUQUA's bond in Kansas.

On 7/17/62, while reviewing information received

recently from Oklahoma City in case captioned "UNSUBS (2);

Oklahoma, 6/15/62,

ITSP",. (Dallas 87-10329), SA MILTON L. NEWSOM noted the

identity of CHARLEY BILL LUBBES of Tulsa as a suspect, anc

that an unknown red compact had been seen near LUBBES'

residence and that LUBBES allegedly had been making weekly

plane trips to Dallas.

It was recarled that kansas City,

by airtel 1/12/62, had furnished results of interviews of

FUQUA and his wife, following their arrest at Hutchinson,

Kansas, 6/19/62.

Mrs. FUQUA had stated she had met Top Ten

Fugitive JOHN GIBSON DILLON about seven years ago, with her

husband, at Tulsa residence CHARLEY LUBBIS (phonetic).

- 2 -

DocId: 32286517 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 94-55A-SUB

It had previously been ascertained by Dallas that

FUQUA drives a white 1962 Pontiac, and his wife drives a

1962 red Valiant. Both cars are

registered in name of BARNEY

GIBBS PAYNE.

The above information was furnished to Oklahoma

City by airtel and was orally furnished to Lt. REVILL and

Deputy MORGAN, 7/18/62.

RE:

SHERMAN FRANKLIN LITTLE,

aka.

IGA

(DL 162-129)

was checked, but each occasion no cars or activities were

noted.

On 7/19/62, DL 95-C advised there was no information that

LITTLE WAS

booking out of this trailer,

and was of the

opinion that LITTLE had moved this trailer to this location

and would let it sit until the football season begins.

On 7/20/62, a check of phone company records deter-

period when there were numerous toll calls made from this

phone.

Above information

1 furnished to Lt. REVILL and

Deputy MORGAN, 7/20/62.

RE: ALBERT MEADOWS, aka.

(DL 162-109)

On 7/18/62, Dallas telephone company records were

checked, and it was

checke to restden elephones disconnected and now only ne

has one telephone in his home.

On 7/19/62, DL 95-C advised

he had been unable, to date,

to ascertain

MEADOWS' present

place of bookmaking operations.

- 3 -

DocId: 32286517 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 94-55A-SUB

On 7/18/62, DL 141-C advised that LITTLE, prior to

about one month ago, resided in his trailer which was parked

at a trailer park on Abrams Road in Arlington, Texas, on the

south side of the street going west just before getting to

the Sears and Roebuck Company store. He stated it was parked

in the first row on the east side at the south end and that

LITTLE had telephone number AN 2-2337 at the time.

He stated

this telephone number is now disconnected and LITTLE may no

longer reside there.

Informant stated that BILLY RAY GRIMES and ALBERT

MEADOWS assist LITTLE in his gambling operations, and that he

understands HARRY URBAN and BUDDY MALONE (Dallas 162-143) joined

up with LITTLE in more or less of a syndicate after the Dallas

Police Department made

in December, 1961. Informant stated he does not actually know

the informant starest

several arrests of bookmakers in Dallas

exactly who is the boss, and does not know if JOHN ELI STONE

and his bookmaking group are connected with LITTLE's group,

but feels sure there is an exchange of information between

them.

RE: JAMES HENRY DOLAN, aka.

(DL 92-292)

On 7/18/62,

toll calls charged to DOLAN's phone were

obtained from Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, Dallas. It

was noted DOLAN had made one call to JOE RUSSELL WYATT,

Farmersville, Texas, police character.

It was also noted there

was a collect call from & "BENNY HAZEN" in Hot Springs, Arkansas,

and a call to Reno, Nevada.

Above information orally furnished to Lt. REVILI and

Deputy MORGAN, 7/20/62.

RE: ISADORE MAX MILLER,

aka.

IGA

(DL 162-96)

on 1/17/62, Lt. JACK REVILL,

Intelligence Section,

Dallas Police Department, advised that he had just learne

subject MILLER had suffered a severe heart attack and was

presently confined to Baylor Hospital.

that

-4.

'DocId: 32286517 Page 5

---

## Page 6

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 94-55A-SUB

On 7/19/62, DL 95-C advised he had heard from

associates of MILLER

that MILLER was still in a critical

condition and was not allowed to receive any visitors.

"DocId: 32286517

Page 6

---

