# docid-32296910

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10218-10186

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-1433

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/13/1965

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

y9.1

DocId:32296910

Page 1

142

---

## Page 2

ReLeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATES 11-14-2017

SAC, Philadelphia (92-444)

Director, FBI

(92-2717)

RFC-T13

ANGELO

AR

CUNO,

aka

1433

1/22/65

JUNK

1 - J. D. Donohue

1

1

- Mr. Flynn

- Mr. Kelly

Re your FD-143 dated 1/13/65.

Authority granted to continue PH 714-C for an

additional yo-day period.

If this source does not produce

significant information during this period, you should give

consideration to recommending that the source be discontinued.

MAILED 7

JAN 2 2 1965

COMM-FBI

NOTE:

Angelo Bruno is the powerful La Cosa Nostra underworld

leader in Philadelphia. This source is a CAlowhieh is located

in the automobile

of PH 614-C-TE, a valuable top echelon informant

Philadelphia Office who has on occasion allowed Bruno to

use this vehicle.

102 who has or

Philadelphia Office reports that during the

past two-month period source has produced only limited information

of value.

It dodireport information concerning a trip Bruno made

with Philip C. Testa, a "capo" in La Cosa Nostra, to Trenton,

New Jersey, where they met John Simone, who is also a "capo"

in

La Cosa Nostra.

Philadelphia Office reports that during the past

two months source was operative on 12 occasions; however, in many

of these instances persons in contact with Bruno did not

appear

to have any importance with respect to the Bureau's investigation

of Bruno. The cost of maintaining this source is mimimail.

the past Bruno has used this car when he did not want to be

surveilled and therefore did not use his personally owned vehicle.

aron one a venice.

In view of the potential of this source, recommend Philadelphia

be authorized to continue source for an additional 90-day period.

Tolson

Belmont

Mobr -

DeLoach

Casper.

Callahon

Conrad _

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

T'rotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

JEK: cae

(6)

err wisea

WECSIAED- CUTE

FEB 1100055

TELETYPE UNIT

Allison

BOUTE IN ENVELOPE

Ware tie

Perton, 2138

DocId: 32296910 Page 2

---

## Page 3

relead inder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Mote).

FD-I'43 (Rev. 4-2-63)

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

5010-106

MAY 1802' EDITION

OSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Director, FBI

JUNE

(Bufile 92-2717

DATE:

1/13/65

PROSE, SAC, Philadelphia (92-144 Sub H)

SUBJECT:

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title

ANGELO BRUNO, aka.

Character of Case

AR

Field Office

Philadelphia

Symbol Number

PH 7146*

Type of Surveillance:

(1xXX4XXXXX

Microphone

(CAT )

CONE. INFT.

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

ANGELO BRUNO

934 Snyder Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa.

2.

Address where installation madé.

Also give exact room number or area

covered:

• "CAT" unit installed in personally owned vehicle

of PH 614-C-TE used on occasion by BRUNO.

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Philadelphia units and KGB 755.

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Authorized 9/17/64; installed 10/1/64.

5. Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places) :

PH 623-C* presently discontinued.

PH 591-C* currently in operation at 1100 South 11th Street,

• Philadelphia, Pa.

6. Il installation is a technical surveilence, answer following questions:

Is a trunk line utilized?

700

Not Applicable

1 Cil Is the surveillance on a public

There

Jugs

REGister - a1

62

Row

- Bureau (92-2717) (RM) a

1

- Philadelphia (92-444 Sub H)

JAV: abs (2)

Sin-operated telephone? NA

* JAN JA 1965

DocId: 32296910

Page 3

DONO

---

## Page 4

Released, under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 92-444 Sub H

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

NA

e. If a party line, how many parties? NA

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One

"CAT" unit.

Is the installation part of

a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the

combination:

NA

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

See attached sheets.

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No.

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

PH • 614-C-TE

PH 672-C-TE

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No.

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

No.

14.

Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises:

NA

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

25 Watt "transmitter" installed Philadelphia Office

CP; however, "CAT" unit lacks range enabling transmureau

above to receive information except infrequently.

autos by SA's, utilizing channel Two, monitor when -BRUNO using

unit.

-2 -

DocId: 32296910 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 92-444 Sub H

c. If any others, set out the proportionate cost of instant

surveillance:

NA

15.

Cost of Leased Line for instant installation?

NA

16. Personnel Costs:

Give total number of special employees and/or Special Agents

working at plant and total salary costs.

It is estimated two agent days per month devoted to

coverage of this unit.

b. Total number of man hours per week spent at plant?

NA

c.

If other installations monitored at same plant, list

proportionate number of man hours per week spent on

instant surveillance:

NA

d. If other installations monitored at same plant, list

proportionate salary expense per annum for instant

surveillance:

NA

17.

Remarks (By SAC) :

Source was established primarily to cover BRUNO

when he exchanges his car for informant's car and leaves

this Division. Source also used to assist other offices

in coverning BRUNO on these trips. Suggest source be continued.

- 3 -

DocId: 32296910

Page 5

---

