# docid-32283200

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/26/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

LB.J

177-10001-10297

RECORD SERIES:

NSF, FILES OF C.V. CLIFTON, MEETINGS W/ PRES., VOL. I, BOX 2

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

OSD

OSD

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 55510 Date:

12-12-2017

DATE:

PAGES:

00/00/0000

2

SUBJECTS

NEED SUBJECT ASSIGNED

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

DOC. #21

EXEMPT PER E.O. 1352

SEC 3.3/DXS4XS/

DATE EXEMPTED

MAR

2016

US RE-REVIEW DATE: 3102C 203>

CRIM TE TOILES AS RADATED

NO JOINT STAFF OBJEGTIOAR

TO DECLACSIFICATION

DATE. -MAR

2016

v9.1

HH 55510 DocId: 32283200 Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CUBA PLANNING

1. The basic operational war plans to overthrow the Castro

government and gain essential control of Cuba envisage an air attack

on Cuba followed by an invasion.

2. Air Attack Plan. The air attack plan, CINCLANT OPLAN 312,

provides for attacks on selected targets to eliminate the effective capa-

bilities of the Cuban air force and to reduce the capabilities of Cuban

ground and naval forces. The Plan calls for the selective destruction

of Cuban military targets, in graduated degrees of severity. The

planned options thus range from the destruction of only a single surface-

to-air missile (SAM) site, through the destruction of a few SAM sites

and some airfields, to a full-scale air attack against all major targets.

Prior to initiation of these air actions, or as they commence, non-

combatants will be evacuated from Guantanamo, and the base will be

reinforced to improve its defensive capabilities.

3. The full implementation of the air attack plan can be initiated

on 72 hours notice, and will involve nearly 600 Navy, Air Force, and

Marine aircraft. Some options of the plan which require selective

application of smaller forces can be initiated in as few as six hours in

an emergency.

4. Invasion Plan. The invasion plan, CINCLANT OPLAN 316,

calls for the invasion of Cuba as soon as possible after directed with

the objective of gaining essential control of Cuba. A simultaneous

airborne/amphibious assault will be made in the Havana area to seize

key objectives.

The attached chart shows the concept of operations.

Subsequent operations will be conducted as necessary. Again this plan

also calls for the reinforcement of Guantanamo and for the evacuation

of non-combatants before combat operations begin. Also, prior to the

assault, CINCLANT OPLAN 312, as described above, will be fully

implemented to help prepare the way.

5. The build-up for this operation normally will require 18 days,

if no alerting actions have been taken. With prepositioning of military

forces, and transport resources, this reaction time can be reduced to

7 days. Since the availability of shipping is a critical limiting factor,

to achieve the reduced response would require requisitioning and

prepositioning of commercial vessels.

TOP SECRET.

NW 55510 DooId: 32283200

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TOP

SEGRE

6. The invasion forces may total some 266, 000 US military

personnel, depending upon the degree of Cuban resistance. Of

these forces, 121, 000 would come from the Army; 70, 000 from

the Navy; 24, 000 from the Air Force; and 51, 000 from the Marines.

7. The Joint Chiefs of Staff would like to review these plans

with the President and discuss any questions he may have.

2

TOP

SECRET

H₩ 55510

DocId: 32283200

.cowe..^→==

Page

3

---

