# docid-32306512

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10290-10152

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 0SC 2107 Notel.

Case#:WH 53074 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/27/1965

PF, ASSOC, GAMBLING A/O BOOKMAKING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32306512

Page

---

## Page 2

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

FLA.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN I

, UNCLASSIFIED

BY

J6685

GeL

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

10-109-04

MAY,

962 ELATION

GSA GEN. RE

UNITED STATES GOT NMENT

Memoranaum

DIRECTOR, FBI (137-11224)

DATE: 10/27/65

SAC, MIAMI (137-3182) (P)

CONF. INTI

MM 982-PC

TECIP

MIAMI DIVISION

Re 0-1 Form, dated 10/22/65, which is attached.

Status is still pending.

Since last Miami letter to Bureau, dated 7/21/65,

he has furnished information relative to the following matters:

FLA

He commented on the air of respectability which

MARIN MM 92-218) is trying to attain by acquiring

Burger Ranch (an elaborate hamburger, stand) in the ft.

Lauderdale, Florida, area; his plans to build additional stands

in Broward

and other southeastern Florida counties. He

reported on the bolita activity of MARTIN pointing out that

MARTIN is removing himself more and more from direct connection

to avoid arrest; he furnished background and growth of paDre

FOX in bolita; he related background relative to PETER APONCE

and explained

how PONCE distributes his lottery tickets and

bolita and he reported PHIL BERMAN is a bankroller of bolita

operators (MM 92=1045). he«commented on JOE MANGONE'S . (MM

92-860) interest in some slot machines aboard a sea-going vessel;

he furnished the bookmaking background, the close alignment

with the defunct S & G gambling syndicate, description and

present business LOUIS BAIDA is now engaged in (MM 162-222) ;

he reported where JOHN PROKOS (MM 165-164) moved his book-

making operation and identified another employee of PROKOS;

he furnished the identity of the place where RALPH SENTERFIT

(MM 162-202) carries on his bolita operations and marital

trouble he is having because he will not retire from bolita

and

gambling; he related information concerning the bookmaking

activities of SAM GRABER (MM 162-264) who is now heavily in

DIAZIO!i

Bureau tEnc. - 1) 0(RMS

- Miami

VEer

RFF: jkj

(3)

jet 53

REG-24/37=11224-6

11: 41

SCT 2g- 1965

1

poitSCA

≤18

Сорці

31

7 0 NOV 1 01965

74 53074

DocId: 32306512

Page 2

---

