# docid-32191896

## Page 1

Released under the John F

• Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107

DATE M

11-11-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10256-10330

RECORD SERIES:

NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

SAC, NY

TITLE: CR 105-172079-SUB A-247

DATE: 05/24/1983

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: KGB, ASSOC, LHO

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

05/12/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32191896 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107-

Hotel.

„DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

YURI I. NOSENKO.

On 1/17/83, source was queried concerning any

knowledge he might have of the NOSENKO matter.

He advised

that "officially" the KGB never discusses defectors and

generally all one would hear would be rumor and gossip.

NOSENKO is considered a

as far as source is aware.(

traitor" in the eyes of

the KGB

V(1)

The source assumed that NOSENKO told western

intelligence everything concerning Second Chief Directorate

activities in Moscow and further assumes that, as is

custom, a "special Commission" of the SCD was convened

following NOSENKO's defection to do a damage assessment.

As an aside, source noted that his defection would be

"examined" by members of the K Directorate of the First

Chief Directorate and by members of the 9th Department of the

S Directorate

(S)

source has no knowledge concerning any connectior

setween the NOSENKO defection in 1964

assassination of President JOHN F. KENNEDY In 196 ASked™

to give his opinion on the merits of Some"speculation that

NOSENKO defected under the direction of the KgB to convince

the US that the KGB had nothing to do with OSWALD's actions,

source did not believe that to be the case. In source's

opinion, NOSENKO's defection and all the information he furnished

about the SCD would have been too great a price to pay

"to

save one man."

Source does not believe that the KGB would risk (S

a defector. Such actions, if they ever occurred, certai

source has never heard that the KGB killed or attempted to kill

ended after OLEG LYALIN's defection in Engländ in

COMMENT:

SECRET

DocId: 32191896

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Motel.

_DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

MAY 24 1583

SUBJECT: LEE HARVE

OSWALD

CHARACTER:

- R

REDWOOD IS THE ICODE NAME ASSIGNED TO A KGB (S

LINE N OFFICER

HE WAS BORN 3/28/47. HE WAS A KGB MAJOR IN THE ILLEGALS LSU

HO PEA TA

WHO DEFECTED TO THE WEST IN JUNE, 1982.

DIRECTORATE, HIS LAST POST BEING HEAD OF LINE N IN TEHRAN,

DEVOTED TO IRANIAN MATTERS RELATED: TO LINE N

BEEN ASSIGNED TO THE S DIRECTORATE

PREVIOUS TO HIS POSTING IN TEHRAN.

CLASSIFICATION:

SECRET

WFO

+{134-14546]G)

BUREAU

1-(105-340770](5)

1- 105-52555

1- 02-104000

NEW YORK

@-E05-172079 SUB AJS>

1 - 105-35431

1-89-75

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HORDIN IS LECLABGIFIED

ENCORT VHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

318p9y

Closered o

SECRET

OpI

2/30/46 v. 566554s hide

REASON:

DECLAOSIFY ON: X_

JFK:

1105-172019 Su

SERIALIZED

NDEXED N

MAY 2 3 1983

FBI -NEW YORK

DocId: 32191896 Page 3

---

