# docid-32287380

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10197-10156

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-9-29-481

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/20/1962

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

CIP, FRIEDSON, MAX, BKG, INFORMANTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM, MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32287380

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

Heleased under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USC 2107

NoteP-36 (DATE?- 11-14-2017

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

2/20/62

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

SECRET

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

ATT THTATHETTA! MATTATHED

•.-". 7770 EXCEPT

5608016

1S

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, MIAMI (162-157) (RUC)

MAX FRIEDSON

INFO CONCERNING

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

Re Bureau airtel to Miami, 2/13/62.

Enclosed herewith are original and 5 copies of

letterhead memorandum setting forth available public source

info concerning MAX FRIEDSON.

Records of Greater Miami Credit Bureau, Miami PD,

Dade County Dept. of Public Safety, and Miami Municipal Court

records, were caused to be checked on 2/16/62, by IC CLIFFORD

M. WERNER.

The records of the Southern Bell Telephone and

Telegraph Co. were reviewed and the following info obtained

for telephone number FRanklin 9-2530. This number is listed

to MAX FRIEDSON, 415 S. W. 30th Rd., Miami, retired president

of American Builders Supply Co. Service connected 9/22/60.

Other service listed for number HIghland 4-0378, Coral Gables

Office. Records for this number reflect it is listed to LEAH

FRIEDSON,

2222 S. W. 31st Ave., Miami. Service connected

1958. Credit info for this number reflects that husband, who

is President of American Builders Supply Corp. pays the bill.

The fecords further listed as of

1958 one BELVIN FRIEDSON,

580Mт

Miami Barber College.

REC- 56

62-9-29-1111

- Bureau (Ene

(AM)

- Miami

1962

ALEBI:mbs

(4)

Approved:

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

SECRET.

DocId: 32287380 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 210

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017•

SECRET

MM 162-157

MM 62-0-8801

On 7/10/53, HERB MC CUSKER, Editor, Greater Miami

Union News and Miami Labor Citizen, advised he had been

approached by a group of men and offered the position of

editor of a monthly paper to be published called "Citizens

Business." Purpose of paper to publish articles commenting

on local political issues.

He furnished a letterhead for

the "Greater Miami Foundation for Civic Education, Inc.,"

2728 S. W. 28th Lane, Miami, which listed the officers and board

of directors of this organization. Among those listed was

one MAX FRIEDSON, Executive Secretary: MC CUSKER advised

this was the group that contacted him. He advised that he

did not suspect the organization but believed that there was

a possibility that some of the individuals might be "tainted,"

but he was unable to furnish any basis for this suspicion.

This is only reference listed for "The Citizens Business,"

in Miami files.

MM 100-0-13799

On 2/20/56, MM 463-S, whose identity is known to the

Bureau, furnished a

letter dated 2/10/56, addressed to "Dear

Member" from the Greater Miami Foundation for Civic Education,

Inc. The letterhead listed one MAX FRIEDSON, 1691 Nethia Dr.,

Miami 33, Fla., HIghland 6-5378, as Executive Secretary.

Letter advised of a dinner meeting of above organization to

be held on 2/16/56, for nomination of officers for the 1956-57

term.

Above 2 references are only references in Miami

files to the Greater Miami Foundation for Civic Education,

Inc.

MM 100-0-13878

On 3/22/54, Mr. P. A. TRIPP, 801 30th St., West

Palm Beach, Fla., advised that until recently he had been

employed and resided for approximately 30 years in the

Miami area and had been active in the City of South Miami

where he had run for the office of Commissioner?

- 3-

62-9029=481

'DocId: 32287380 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Reteased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 741 USC 2107

Hotè) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREX

MM 162-157,

MAX FRIEDSON. BEILER advised that he informed SELIGMAN he

was not interested and that such an organization would

probably fall into the wrong hands and end up being dominated

by the Communists.

He suggested they contact the ACLU to

see about establishing a chapter in Miami.

Professor BEILER was subsequently recontacted for

further info at which time he advised that the group dis-

cussed by FRIEDSON and SELIGMAN had been formed and had

adopted a name other than the Miami Civil Rights Committee,

and he believed it was the Miami Chapter of the ACLU. He

had not attended any meetings.

MM 100-13722

File captioned Miami Chapter American Civil

Liberties Union.. Serial 3. Article Miami Daily News,

Miami, Fla., dated 7/23/55, lists one MAX FRIEDSON, not

further identified, as one of the directors of the newly

formed Miami Chapter of the ACLU.

Serial 38. MM 463-S, whose identity is known

to the Bureau, furnished written report dated 2/21/58, by

mail to SA MELVIN A. THOMPSON. Filed 134-35 Sub A. Included

in this report was the information that one MAX FRIEDSON and

a Mrs. FRIEDSON, possibly daughter-in-law, attended a special

meeting of the Miami Chapter ACLU, Wednesday, 2/19/58, at

the Unitarian Church. Purpose of the meeting was to decide

course of action in connection with the Charley Johns Committee

Hearings in Miami.

Serial 43. MM 463-S, furnished on 5/8/58, a typed

report dated 4/5/58, to SA THOMPSON, filed 134-35 Sub A.

This report states in part that a conversation between LEAH

FELDMAN and another individual was overheard in which it was

learned that one MAX FRIEDSON, not further identified, had

been appointed the chairman of the drive to raise money for

the ACLU's defense of Rev. EDWARD GRAHAM, against the legal

moves of the Johns Cormittee of the Fla. State Legislature.

- 6 .

DocId:32287380 Page 4

---

## Page 5

(Released under the John F.- Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711 USe

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

'SECRETI

162-157

Serial 55. On 2/9/59, MM 463-S furnished to SA

THOMPSON a throwaway type paper issued by the ACLU, which

lists the candidates selected by the nominating committee

and approved by the Board of Directors of the ACLU. The

name MAX FRIEDSON was among the list of candidates. Filed

134-35 Sub A 533.

Serial 74. A mimeographed letter mailed to the

Quota Club of Miami which was in turn forwarded to the Miami

Office bearing the letterhead of the Florida Civil Liberties

Union, an affiliate of the ACLU, 509 Olympia Bldg., Miami,

listing one MAX FRIEDSON as a member of the Greater Miami

Chapter Board of Directors.

Serial la2. Letter received from MM 463-S on 9/3/55,

by SA THOMPSON, listing the report of the nominating committee

of ACLU of Greater Miami. This list contains the name of

one MAX. FRIEDSON. (not further identified) as one of 39 individuals

nominated as a director.

MM 100-808-225 Page 10.

Reference is made to New Orleans letter to Bureau,

2/4/55, captioned "Southern Conference for Human Welfare; Southern

Conference Educational Fund, Inc., IS-C," Bufile 100-10355.

This letter advised that on 8/11/54, Mr. FRANCIS BARNARD,

printer, 433 Baronne St., New Orleans (protect), furnished

several thousand cards belonging to this organization which

in his opinion constituted a partial mailing list of the SCEF.

Among these cards was one bearing the following

information: "MAX H. FRIEDSON, 1691 Nethia Dr., Miami, Fla."

Upper right hand corner of the

card contained following:

"(J. J. LYNN)."

MM: 100-808-275 Pg. 11.

Reference is made to. New Orleans letter to Bureau

dated 11/12/58, captioned "Southern Conference Educational

Fund, Inc., IS-C, ISA, 1950," Bufile 100-10355. Letter

- 7 .

SECRET

DocId: 32287380 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Recoris- Co

Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Lection Hot of

19952

14

ruse

21:07

10-27-94

Classified by 508 MACKSR

Ceclassify on:

OADR

Tolson

Belmont.

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone -

Rosen

Sullivan .

T'avel

T'rotter -

Tele. Room --

Ingram

Gandy

• Wx • McAndrews

- Mr. Sheridas

SECRET

#13758

1962

FOR STOTT

Marcha

ALL INCORATION

REC- 56

1224

MAX FRIEDSON

RAuS

withs Shout

OTHENGISE

(ith reference to memorandun dated february

s, 1962,

captioned

set lorth a resune of information

30th Boad, Miami,

Florida.

polk's City Directory

for Greater Manx

area

1949 Edition:

Ilsts Bax Priedson, President,.

Anerican buriders Supplies, Inc., rosidence 353 Meridian

Avenue, Miami

Beach, Florida.

1953-54 Edition: Lists Has Friedson, Wile Lead Do

Prosident y

American Builders Supplies, Inc, 4128. S.. N. 40Ch

в 261009

bane,

telephone 46205,

residence I691

Nothia Drive,

Coconut

Grove, telephone 45378.

Leah P.

Triedson (Mrs.), listed

as Secretary,

American Builders supples,.

residence 1691 Nethla Drive,

Coconut Grove, Miami,

Florida.

1956 Edition:

Lists Max h. Friedson,

wife Loal P,

distributor. Window rite

Sales,

residence 1691 Nethia Drive.

Leah P. Friedson listed

as employed Party Box Hosher Caterero,

rest dence

1691 Nethia Drive.

1933-39 EdItIOn:

Lists lax I. Friedson, sesidence

1691 Nethia drive.

Hrs. Leah

Friedson, employed Party Box

Rosher Catergy, residence 6091. Nethta

Dx170-

= 1960-Edi (100:

saleswan.for

Lists lax l. Friedson, wife Leah T..

Ferman

Stocke and Bonds, residence

1691

Methia Dirve,

Coconut

Grove, Miani, florida.

(gurrent

telephone directory, Southern Bell Tolephone

Telegraph Company,

Septenber ,

telephone FRanklin 2-2530.

Further Ilotil sott sond,

Itami,

indicated for a

Friedson, 2a44 S. No slay ayenge.

telephone HIghland

- 40378.

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit

MAILED FROM DIVISION FIVE

Mr. W. A. Sullivan

PRS: ma

MAR 5 - 1962

(8)

SECRET

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32287380 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassinat

10n

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-20176

1992-

Ti USe 218

FOR

STONS

RE:

MAX

FRIEDSON

SECRET

the records of the

Groater Miam

Credit Bureau

caused to be checked on Februmy 16. 1962, reveal & seport

dated July 6, 1961,

for the Metropolitan Banks of Miant for

one Max Eriodson

wato winnio, 415 S. M. 30ch Road, Mian.

Friedson

described as hito, male, ago 15 to 50, employed

publie rolations man by R. I. Forman and Company.

employed as ssistant loon officer at Dade Federal Savings

and Loan Association, Miant, for ten yours.

No local credit

information availabla.

Current tolephone directory for Greater Miami,

classlited section, liste the firm of Robert I. Foran

and

Ainley Buildins, Miami, Colophone FRanklin 7-1671,

the section headed stocks and Bonds.

Records

of the Miant Polico Department and Dade

County Department

of Public Salety as caused to be checked on

February 16, 1962, failed to reveal my record identifiable with

Max Friedson®

Records of Mint Municipal Court, no causad to be

checked on February 16,

1964, reflect case number 61216,

dated November 21, 1957,

for one Max Triodson, 169l Nothie

Drive, Miami, descrood as waite, male,

50, rotired,

born in Ney lors, Fredson charged with noguigence in oponing

a car door at chich time an accident occurred.

Frledson fined

$10 and 4 doys, received suspended sentence

November 14, 1957.

The name Max H. Friedson;

• 1691 Nethia Drive, Mion,

Florida,

appeared in 1058 on the mailing list of the Southern

Conferdice

Educational Tund,. Incorporated. (sch).

The SChe come into existence as the successor to the

Southorn Condorence for Human Welfare

(SCHw) through an amendment

to the charter of the SCHV datod Ap211 26, 1946. This amendment

Iladed the purpose of the

Scar as being to improve the educational

and customary standarde of the southern papplo in accordance rath

the highest American Donocratic institutions, traditions and

1deals:

SCHV was cited as a communist

front by

• the Committee

Un-American Activities in House Roport

592 dated June 16, 104%. *

tho above information in in reply to your menor'andum

8/2298 datod Tobruary 8, 1982.

* Source - New Orleans letter 6/6/6I, unrecorded serial, in

Butile 100-10355.

tay ?:

SECRET

07-9-2948

DocId: 32287380 Page 7

---

