# docid-32294153

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10212-10429

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-541

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SD.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/06/1963

'PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

LCN, SD, CA, LEADERSHIP, MEMBERSHIP, CRIMINAL ACT,

BUSS ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45839 DocId: 32294153 Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

UNITED STATES

GC

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 12/6/63

FROM

070

SAC, SAN DIEGO (92-229) (P)

SUBJECT:

-6.1

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

00: New York

ReBuairtel to New York 11/4/63.

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are the original

and three copies of a letterhead memorandum in captioned case

in lieu of report.

Two copies are enclosed for the Los Angeles

Office and two copies are enclosed for the New York Office.

The source identifying membership of JOSEPH/LIMANDRI,

FRANK BOMPENSIERO and JASPERE J. METRANGA, aka., as members of

the La Cosa Nostra is LA 4448-C-TE and information from this

source should not 'be included in the details of any roport, per

information from the Los Angeles Office.

The source who identified MARCO LIMANDRI as a member

1s JOSEPH VALACHI, who on 10/10/63 advised he had no additional

Information concerning MARCO LIMANDRI but thought LIMANDRI

might have been involved in the sale of stolen OPA stamps during

World War II and subsequently went from New York to CaliforniaO

For information of the Bureau, FRANK BOMPENSIERO and

JOSEPH JOHN LIMANDRI are presently being contacted in an attempt

to develop them as informants under the Top Echelon Informant

Program.

OTHER 4

By letter dated 11/21/63 the Bureau advised that Los

Angeles informant had advised that the Caporegima of the San

Diego group 1s an Individual by the name Of ARNATO (phonetic).

on 11/26/63 PCI [

who is a close associate

of FRANK BOMPENSIERO and other Italians in San Diego, advised

2- Bureau (Encs. 4)(AM - REG) /Ma (P

2 - New York (22- 2300(Encs.

2)(AM - REG)

i R20/2=1,051-541

2 - Los Angel@

(92-1112) (Encs. 2) (AM - REG)

2 - San Diego

112 DEC 11 1963

THC : mid

(8)

STIO

DEC 31 1963

NW 45839 DocId: 32294153 Page 2

---

