# docid-32162371

## Page 1

the John f.

11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10145-10232

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 62-109060-7991

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. MM

DATE: 12/06/1978

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

JFK, ASSA ALLEGATIONS, INTV, STURGIS, FRANK

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

12/06/1996

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/09/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

DATE LOWER LEFT CORNER

DocId: 32162371 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John'F: Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note FD 3020A0 :36l47,11-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

12/11/78

Date of transcription -

THOMAS J. HOLT 'appeared at the office of the

Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), 3801 Biscayne Boulevard,

Miami, Florida, where he was interviewed by Special Agents PETER B.

SCHOPPERLE and DON J. DUMFORD, FBI. Prior to the interview,

Special Agent (SA) SCHOPPERLE

had explained to Mr. HOLT that the

Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) was desirous of knowing

any information concerning remarks made by one FRANK STURGIS in

his presence concerning the assassination of President JOHN E.

KENNEDY at Dallas, Texas.,

HOLT advised that he is not that well acquainted with

FRANK STURGIS, but that he met him approximately one year ago

at a party given at Fort Lauderdale, Florida. He stated that

he was introduced to STURGIS by a friend of his, BILLY JOHNSON.

HOLT advised that at this party STURGIS had told him that he

had been a hit man for FIDEL CASTRO, and that both CASTRO and

he (STURGIS) had both worked for the Central Intelligence Agency

(CIA) •

At this point in the interview, HOLT stated that

ROCKEFELLER, meaning NELSON ROCKEFELLER, had been in charge of

the Warren Commission, and that it had been a cover up as far

as the assassination of KENNEDY was concerned. HOLT next stated

that the "hit" was done in Texas to make it look like JOHNSON

(President LYNDON JOHNSON) was at fault.

HOLT stated that he believed BILLY JOHNSON may have

told STURGIS to say the above things, just to impress HOLT.

HOLT next stated that while at this party, STURGIS

had named many people whom he stated were "big", and that he

knew these people.

HOLT stated that he thinks STURGIS may

have killed KENNEDY because STURGIS had said that he could

"shoot a person's brains out at 1,000 yards with a simple

rifle and imagine what I

could do with a scope."

HOLT next

stated that if STURGIS had made these comments to him concerning

the assassination of KENNEDY he was sure that he had probably

told them to other people.

HOLT stated that' STURGIS was a man

approximately 50 years old. HOLT next stated that he advised

BILL JOHNSON had worked as an informant for the FBI, CIA and

Investigation on 12/6/78

- a Miami, Florida

SAS PETER B. SCHOPPERLE and

by

- DON I. DUMFORD

PBS/pj

- Fie #Miami 89-35

-Date dictated

12/8/78

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the Fal. it is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency:

it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32162371

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John

F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 89-35

DEA.

ke stated that he knew BILI, JOHNSON on and off for a

couple of years, and that JOHNSON was in his late forties.

He further described him as a flim flam man who likes

to try to swindle money from wealthy women:

HOLT advised that in regards to the remark made by

STURGIS, it was during the latter part of the summer that he

was on Biscayne Boulevard, at approxiately 125th Street near

Bouley stevate

Denny's Restaurant and Steve's Pizza, when BILLY JOHNSON

drove up in his car accompanied by FRANK STURGIS. HOLT advised

that at this time BILLY JOHNSON told STURGIS that he (HOLT)

vas a Boston boy'r

At this time HOLT advised STURGIS said

"I killed a boy from Boston named KENNEDY." HOLT advised that

he said, "Do you mean the President?" and STURGIS said "Yes."

HOLT advised that JOHNSON next laughed and said

"Ain't that

heavy."

HOLT advised that STURGIS then said "I'll tell you,

nobody else."

HOLT advised that that was the end of the

conversation, and STURGIS and JOHNSON left.

HOLT next. advised

that he was facing murder charges in Broward County,

but that no trial date had been set.

HOLT next stated that

he wanted to become an informant for the FBI, but that he

would have to have it in writing.

HOLT further related that he

had been screwed by DEA and his conversation became rambling

making no further sense. Interview was terminated at this

point.

The following is background infornation concerning

HOLT:

Name

Date of birth

Race

FBI Number

Hair

Eyes

Height

Weight

Place of Birth

Current Address

Telephone number

THOMAS JOSEPH HOLT

March 23, 1941

White male

320 23 E

Brown

Brown

5 feet 10 1/2 inches

240 Pounds

Boston, Massachusetts

1627 North Swinton Avenue

Delray Beach, Florida

278-0190

4

DocId: 32162371

Page 3

---

