# docid-32310684

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10306-10093

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 87-84051-35

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: ROSEN, A.

TO: DELOACH

TITLE:

DATE: 01/07/1966

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

NRO, THEFT, STOCK CERTIFICATES, ASSOC, PAYOFF,

INSTR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

05/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

DocId: 32310684

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assas

ДТЕ :

11-14-2017

nation

Records

Collection

992

44

.USC

2107

Hote

2222.

- 100

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum•

Mr. DeLoach.

FROM A. ROBen

DATE

January 1, 1966

• Mr. Wick

Mr:

. De Loach

MI. Rosen

Mr. Malley

• Air.

Shroder

1 - Mr. Schmidt

¡aja. Rose

14=19-09

SI BJECT UNKNOWN SUBJECTS (2)

THEFT OF $2, 034, 631. 25

STOCK CERTIFICATES

GOODBODY AND COMPANY

NEW YORK CITY - VICTIM

7/20/85

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF

SOLEN PROPERTY; MAJOR THEFT

BACKGROUND:

1,1

Chester tray, acting as our informant in this case, previously advised

that Norman Rothman, Miami, is in contact with individuals who allegedly

possess over $2, 000, 000 in stock certificates stolen 7/20/65, from Gondbody and

Company, New York City. As previously authorized, SA Casey and Supervisor

Nehrbass of our New York Office proceeded to Miami. Supervisor Nehrbass,

acting in an undercover capactty, posing as a prospective buyer, 1s to meet with

Rothman in order to effect the recovery of the stolen securities and arrest of

persons involved, Rothman's principals demanderi $20, 000 good faith money be

put in an escrow account, after which they would produce entire package of

securities. Insurance company provided $20, 000 cash, which was placed in a

bank escrow account in Miami.

87-8165:

CURRENT DEVELOPMENTS:

Supervisor Nehrbass called from Miami this morning and advised that

Gray had begn in contact wit), Rethman and Rothman had indicated that the source

of the bonds wil not make them available until the money is actually turned

ovar to Rothmaf.! Rothman again contacted his source, all gedly in New York,

i in an effort to meet the conditions set ly Gray as instructed by our Agents.

The Miamt Office has determined that Stokhmdn hall'called one Josephine.

Dellpaoll In New York, and the New York Office is checking this out to see li

these calls could be connected with the securities. New Pontand Bureau files

contain no references to Dellipaoli.

RIS:eem

410/10

_coples mailo

87-8405<33

CONTINUED - OVER 10:1966:

'AN? 49966 Kilo

DocId: 32310684

Page 2

-

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

2107

HoteL

Memorandum to Mr. DeLoach

Re: UNKNOWN SUBJECTS (3)

THEFT OF $2, 034, 691, 25

Rothman told Gray that he felt if he could go to New York and meet with

his contact that he could convince the contact to proceed with the sale of the

securities under the terms set by Gray in Miami. Rothman said he was broke

and requested Gray to loan him the money for airplane fare to New York today.

Superyisor Nehrbass requested Bureau authority io advance Gray $175 to give

to Rothman for an airplane ticket.

Based on developments to date, it appears that Rothman is only acting

as the middleman in this transaction and it is entirely possible that Gray is

being given the runaround since it is publir knowledge that he has previously

cooperated with the FBI, Secret Service and other law enforcement agencies..

In view of these considerations, the Miami Office was subsequently advised

that Bureau authority was denied to advance Gray this money; that Gray

should be instructed to inform Rothman that the payoff will be made under pre-

arranged conditions wherein good faith money has been deposited in a local

Miami bank.

The Miami Office was also Instructed to have SAs Nehrbass and Casey

return to New York today unless there are definite developments indicating

Rothman will produce the securities in Miami.

ACTION:

The Miami Office will submit a detailed teletype today furnishing

latest developments in this matter.

87•

DocId: 32310684

Page

3

---

