# docid-32288427

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10199-10203

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-9-1215

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/01/1963

4

CIP, MURDERED, LEWIS, BENJAMIN F.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32288427

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released undef the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-11-2017

4-41 PRev. 10-16-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter.

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy

Radio

• Teletype

PAGE 3 FROM SAC CHICAGO

011910

PAID LEWIS $500 AS A PAYOFF RE POLICY. PRESENT INDICATIONS

ARE THAT THERE ARE SEVERAL WILDCAT POLICY WHEELS IN THE

24TH WARD HOWEVER, THIS SITUATION IS NOT UNIQUE TO THE 24TH

WARD ITSELF.

R.T. SPENCER, CHIEF INVESTIGATOR, STATES ATTORNEY'S OFFICE,

COOK COUNTY AND RETIRED SA, FBI, ADVISED THAT THE PRIME

SUSPECT IN THIS KILLING IS A NEGRO WHOSE IDENTITY HE IS

NOT PUBLISHING. APPROXIMATELY TWO WEEKS AGO LEWIS PURPORTEDLY

RECEIVED A THREAT BY A STATEMENT "IF YOU GET ELECTED YOU '

WON'T LIVE 24 HOURS." SPENCER ADVISED HE WAS UNABLE TO - .

ESTABLISH ANY DEFINITE LINKS BETWEEN LEWIS

MURDER AND

SYNDICATE ACTIVITY.

IT IS POINTED OUT THAT CHUCK AND SAM ENGLISH, CHICAGO

HOODLUMS, CONDUCT SOME OF THEIR LEGITIMATE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES

IN A PORTION OF THE 24TH WARD AS WELL AS IN THE 29TH WARDS.

NO INFORMATION HAS BEEN DEVELOPED INDICATING ANY DISPLEASURE

WITH LEWIS ON THE PART OF THE ENGLISHS. NOTED CG 6486-C* RE-

PORTED ON PRESENCE OF CHARLES ENGLISH AND GIANCANA FEBRUARY 27

LAST FOR ABOUT TWO HOURS NO MENTION OF LEWIS MADE. CG 6512-CTE

WHO IS EXTREMELY CLOSE TO THE ENGLISH OPERATION KNOWS OF NO

DISSATISFACTION OR PROBLEMS BETWEEN LEWIS AND ENGLISH

BROTHERS.

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32288427 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

" DATE: 11-14-2017

• 4-41 CRev. 10-16-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

* Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

• Radio

Teletype

PAGE 4 FROM SAC CHICAGO

011910

TODAY CG 5875-C ADVISED THAT RICKY (LNU) NEGRO MALE

FORMER MARCOTICS PUSHER ADVISED THE INFORMANT YESTERDAY AS

FOLLOWS. RICKY FORMERLY PUSHED NARCOTICS FOR ONE "TENNESSEE, "

A NEGRO MALE, WHO OPERATES A GROCERY STORE ON CHICAGO'S

SOUTHSIDE. RICKY STATED ALDERMAN LEWIS AND TENNESSEE WERE

IN NARCOTICS OPERATIONS TOGETHER AND FREQUENTLY EXCHANGED

LOANS OR INVESTMENT MONEY TO PURCHASE HEROIN. RICKY STATED

LEWIS PRESENTLY HEAVILY IN DEBT AND WAS LOANED SUM OF MONEY

BY TENNESSEE LAST WEEK. RICKY STATED TENNESSEE EARNS $2,500

TO $4,000 PER WEEK ON NARCOTICS TRADE.

CLOSE CONTACT BEING MAINTAINED WITH ALL INFORMANTS BOTH

TECHNICAL AND LIVE AND TO DATE NO INDICATIONS LEWIS DEATH

ATTRIBUTED TO CHICAGO SYNDICATE. BUREAU WILL BE KEPT

ADVISED.

RECEIVED:

9:41 PM

JCF

13::1.P3

WEIMA: CHO CE TORLICE

v! 1 83 63e3

WE!"

blind. 0

§ the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic system.

DocId: 32288427

Page 3

---

