# docid-32332891

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

11/30/20 /

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90104-10189

HQ

92-2940-1

Releaned arden the tea.

1^1ec128 20 4332

144 2B0 2000 Mabel.

Lang=: X 45238 Cabe:

2-25-2527

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

PG

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/23/1957

PAGES:

68

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

3; 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

NW 45836 Docid: 32332891

Page 1'

---

## Page 2

PG 92-226

September 1933 - October, 1949:

Resided al; 6426 Apple Avenue,

Pittsburgh, Pa.

February 25, 1944:

Subject adopted a child

(HOWARD BESLIE HOFFMAN) 2ü

Greensburg, Pa. ührough the

Westmoreland County Orphans

Court.

the father or this

chila is TONY TERRIGIO (not

Lurcher idencified) and

the

child was born in Greensburg,

Pa. on October 1, 1943..

child was then named sCHN.

October 1949 to present:

Subject resides at 900 West

Ingomar Road, Ingorar, Pa.,

This

address

was veritied by THOMAS JOSEPH CARMODY,

Alleghany County Detective Bureau: Pissburgh, Pa., on

December 18, 1957. Detective CARMODY sugzested that further

information regarding LA ROCCA might be obtained from a Mr.

THOMAS, Thomas Senvice Station, Ingomar Road, Ingomar, Pa.,

telephone FOrest 4-9995.

LA ROCCA has three brothers: ANTHONY LA ROCCA, 6323 Glenview

Place, Pittsbusgh, Pa., employed as a barber; JOSER LA ROCCA,

6528

Apple Avenue,

Pittsburgh, Pa. (last known address);

JOHN

LA ROCCA, 900 West Ingonar Road, Ingomar, Pa.

LA ROCCA was interviewed by SA JOHN S. PORTELLA on Dotober 10,

1955 aw which time he adviced his brother JOHN was single and

resided with him.

This is the last known address for JOHN.

IA ROCCA has three sisters; Mrs. ROSE CONTI, 380 Rose Avenue,

Bu POLO, NEW CO MES. LEONA ROSE, RS. ANGELINE ZITI,

Box 351, Broadhead.

Township of Moon, Coraopolis, Pa.;

Baltimore, Maryland.

The only indication that has been as. to any of LA RoccA's

family being engaged in business

with him is in the I & G

Amusement Company, 6323 Glenview Place, Pittsburgh.

-3-

NW 45836 DocId: 32332891 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-226

The records of the Prothonatory's Office, City County

Building, Pittsburgh, reveal that JOHN J. LA ROCCA WaS &

partner to JOHN S. LA ROCCA and MICHAEL GENOVESE.

I-1, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

advised on November 22, 1957, that MIKE GENOVESE is the

protege of JOHN LA ROCCA and will eventually succeed LA ROCCA

in the latter's many gambring interests.

It is to be noted that the address 6323 Glenview Place,

Pittsburgh,

Is listed for ANTHONY LA ROCCA. A 1957 Pittsburgh

Telephone Directory bears out this listing.

LA ROCOA at a deportation hearing has testified thao this

business

has been merged with the Coin Machine Discributing

Company.

On November 6, 1957: JOSEPII REGINO (PAGNO), Capital Bowling

Alleys, Franklin and Vine

street, connscown, fa,,

advised

I-2, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

that he and the subject are partners in the Keystone

Cigarette Vending Company at Johnstown, Pa.

According to

T∞2, REGINO and the subject have 75 percent and the other

25 percent is held by JOHN J. LA ROCCA.

I-3, another government agency conducting intelligence

investigations, made available on Mav 28, 1955

JEK Law

11(a)

-4-

Release in part

yper IRS 1/14198/g0

94-2940-1119

NW 45836

DocId: 32332891 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 024 226

0:1 December 23, 1957, FRANK W. MAGILL, Assistant Unief,

intelligence Division, Internal Revenue Service, Piütsburgh.

Pà.

JFK Law 11(a)

LA ROCKA in recent years nse been involved in deportation hear

ings, and que so testimony as these hearingss

a parjury triai

in the U.S. Districo Court, Western Distrios of Pennsylvanta

as Pitoshurch, 22.

The subject hed applied for naturailzation os May 12, 1950.

Os January 20: 1953 a warrant was

issued inch one Districs

Direcior al Philadelphia: Pa, hered on Seebioas 241 (a) (4)

and 212 (a)(la) of the innigracion and Nacionaity Act.

The following is an outline of the proceedings aginst If ROddA

as set out in releases fion various Filesbag? newspapers:

On caruary 21, 1953 2 selease of sho "Pirbaburgh Sun Telegrapk"

stating in pari:

JOTO LA ROCCA, Who has figuced in a murber

of local rackoo publicity,

today gos some national recognition.

His arrest on charges that may lead to his asporcation

is the

first Locally under the MeGarror Immigration Aet which secame

law last Christmas Eve.

The capper LA ROCOA;

150, 0f Dagonara

was arrested

chis norning at his office as 500 Norch Craig

Sertes, desunded by the Standard Dryer Disidouting Company,

Dil anuary 22, 1953, a "Pittsburgh Press" news release stated:

¡Pardon Beard appearad Cavocable today to a request for a

Pardon filed by JOHN LA nuceo of Pistsburg: nou under amosü

as an undesirable alien.

un Rocco sought & pardon 1o1 ine

conviccion or crines in 1959 troiving larveny and the receipt

of stolen goods.

"Willian S. Livengood, üe.: Secretary of Ladenuai Affairs

and

a Pardons Board inembar, indicated he favored a pardon for LA

ROSCO.

IA ROCCO's request for a full pardon was opposed as

the hearing by D. Albers Mazer, AssistANJ Flocuburgh Diatrict

Abtorney,

board he was inos convinced:

TA RO00O

Ancther board

nember,

CENE D. SMITH, Commonwealth Seeretary, Gold Me. Masor

i would be difficulo

ic hold up LA RoccC's pardon merely on

suspicion.

LA ROCCO was represenied at today's hearing by V. J.

RICH, Pittsburgh attorney, who told the Pardons Board was he

authorities waited until

the day before La ROCCo's board acaring

do arresi him in an effor to embarrass LA ROCCO.

94-3940-1119)

NW 45836 DocId: 32332091

Page 4

---

## Page 5

JEK ACt 6 (4)

PG 92-226

INFORMANTS

T-]. is

PCI, who was contacted by SA JOHN S.

PORTELLA, 11/22/57.

T-2 1s HAROLD W. LAUVER, INS Investigator, who desired that

his identity be concealed relative to some information set

forth, contacted by SA WILLIAMI R. WALL On 12/12,13,16,19/57.

To3 is Report of G. WILSON SPIELER, Investigator Conferree,

Intelligence Division, Internal Revenue Service, dated

4/18/55, reflecüing examination conducted by special agents

of the Internal Revenue Service, LUDWIG J. BCNCIOVANNI and

GENE A. FANNEION Of the Susce Reporü.

It is DOMINICK TRONZO, Uncle to TERESA TRONZO, who desires

his identity be concoaled, Miller Avenue, Homer City, Pa.,

• contacted in 1/53 by SA WILLIAM J. MYERS.

T-5 is PG 573-C contacted by SA PORTELLA on 10/6/53 and

9/13/55.

T-6 is former PG 509-C contacted by SA PORIELLA on 9/4/54

and 7/30/53.

I=7 is PG 561-0, who was contacted by SA CARL L. SHERWOOD

on 9/11/57•

T8 is PCI CHESTER STUFAK, contacted by SA PORTELLA

12/13/54 and 10/21/55.

-30-

NO 45936

DocId: 32332891 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-226

September 1933 - October, 1949:

Resided al 6426 Apple Avenue,

Pitosburgh, Pa.

February 25, 1944:

subject adopted a child

(HOWARD LESLIE HOFFMAN) at

Greensburg, Pa. through the

Westmoreland County Orphans

Court.

Ins father of this

child is

TONY TERRIGIO (not.

further idensified) and the

onild was born in Greensburg,

Pa. On October 1s 1943:

The

child was then named' JOHN.

October 1949 to present:

Subject resides at 9C01 West

Ingonar Road, Ingenar,

Pa.

This addreds

was veritied by THOMAS JOSEIH CARMODY,

Alleghay County Desective Bureau, Piüssburgh, Pa., on

December 18, 1957.

Detective CARMODY suggested that further

information regarding LA ROCCA might be obsained from a Mr.

THOMAS, Thoinas Service Station, Ingonar Road, Ingemar, Pa.,

telephone FOresü 4-9995.

LA ROCCA has three brothers: ANTHONY

A ROCCA

6323 Glenview

Place, Pittsbugh, Fa., employea as a

barber;

- JOSEPA LA ROCCA,

6528 Apple. Avenue,

Pittsturgh, Pa. (last known address;

JOHN LA ROCCA, 900

Weist Ingonar Road, Ingomar,

Pa.

T.A. ROCCA was interviewed by SA JOHN S. PORTELLA on October 10,

1955 ai which vime he advised his brother JOHN was single and

resided with him. This is the last known address for JOhN.

IA ROCCA has three sisters: Mrs. ROSE CONTI, 350 Rose Avenue,

Buffalo, New York; Mrs. LEONA ROSS, R. D. 3,

Box 351, Brcadhead.

Township of Moon, Coraçpolis, Pa.; Mrs. ANGELINE ZINTO,

Baltimore, Maryland:

The only indication that has been as. to any of LA RoccA's

family being engaged in business with him is in thet & o

Asusement Company, 6323 Glenfiew Place, Pitesburgh.

Gaw,

-3-

NW 45836 DocId: 32332891

Page 6

---

## Page 7

PG 92-226

The records of the Prothonatory's Office, City-County

Building, Pitusburgh, reveal that JOHN J. LA ROCCA WaS a

partner to JOHN S. LA ROCCA and MICHAEL GENOVESE.

I-1, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

advised on November 22, 1957, that MIKE GENOVESE iS.

the

protege of JOHN LA ROCCA and will eventually succeed LA ROCCA.

in the latter's many gambiing itterests.

It is to be noted that the address 6323 Glenview Place,

Pittsburgh, is lisisa for ANTHONY LA ROCCA.

A 1957 Pittsburgh

Telephone Directory bears out this listing.

LA ROCCA

at a deportation hearing has testified thao this

business has been merged with ther

Coin Machine Discributing

Company•

On November 6, 1957= JOSBELT FEGINO (RAGNO), Capital Bowling

Alleys, Franklin and Vine Street, Johnstown, Pa., advised

1-2, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

that he and the bubject are partners in they graine to

25 percent is held by JOHN J. LA ROCCA.

T-3, another government agency conducting intelligence

investigations, made available on May 28, 1955

JEK Law 11(a)

Release in part

per IRS 1114198@

92-2940-1

11(9)

NW 45836

DocId: 32332891 Page 7

---

## Page 8

70 92 226

On December 23, 1957, FRANK W. MAGILI, Assistant Chief,

Intelligence Division, Internal Revenue Service, Pittsburgh,

2502

JEK Law 11(a)

LA ROCCA in recent years has been involved in deportation heai

ings, and due to tessimony

at these hearings,

a perjury trial

in the U.S. Districü Court, Western District of Pennsylvania

at Pittsburgh, Pa.

The subject had applied for naturalization on May 12, 1950.

On January 20, 1953 a warrant was issued from the District

Director at Philadelphia, Pa. baced on Seotions 241 (a)(4)

and 212 (a)(12) of the Innigration and Nationality Act.

The following is an outline of the proceedings againet LA ROCCA

as sei out in releases from various Pitüsburgh newspapers:

On January 21, 1953 a release of the "Pittsburgh Sun»Telegraph'

stating in part:

"JOHN LA ROCCA, Who has figuned in a number

of local racket publicity, today gos some national recognition.

His arrest on charges that may lead to his deporvation is the

first locally under the McCarran Immigration Act which became

law last Christmes Eve.

was arrested this morning at his office as 500 North Craig

Street, ocoupied by the Standard Dryer Distributing Company. "

On January 22, 1953, a "Pittsburgh Press" news reicase staïed:

"Pardon Board appeared favorable today to a request for a

pardon filed by JOHN LA ROCCO of Pittsburgh now under arrest

IA ROCCO sought a pardon for the

as an undesirable alier 1939 Inrolving larceny ind the rebelps

conviction of crimes in

of stolen goods.

"William S. Livengood, Jr., Secretary of Intemnal Affairs and

a Pardons Board member, indicared he favored a pardon for LA

ROCCO. LA ROCCO's request for a full

the hearing by D. Albert Mazer, AssistANI Pittsburgh Dissrict

LA ROCCO

Attorney", was noù engaged in commerciai vice.

Mr. Mazer old the board he was not convinced:

Another board

meinber, GENE D. SMIUH. Commonwealth Secretary, told Mr. Mazer

it would be disficult

to hold va tA Rocco's pardon merely on

suspicion. LA ROCCO was represented at today's hearing by v. J.

RICH, Pittsburgh attornsy, who told the Pardons Board hat the

the day before LA POCCO's board hearing

to arrest him in an effori to embarrass LA ROCCO."

-5-

92-0940-11119)

NW 45836 DocId: 32332891

Page 8

---

## Page 9

JEK Act 6 (4)

PG 92-226

INFORMANTS

Ta] 15

PCI, who was contacted by SA JOHN S.

PORTELLA, 11/22/57.

T-2 Is HAROLD W. LAUVER, INS Investigator, who desired that

his identity be

concealed relative to some information set

forth, contacted by SA WILLIAM R. WALL On 12/12,13,16,19/57.

T-3 is Report of G. WILSON STIVELER, Investigator Conferree,

Intelligence Divisions Internal Revenue Service, dated

4/18/55, reflecting examination conducted by special agents

of the Internal Revenue Service, LUDWIG J. BONGIOVANNI and

GENE A. PANNETON Of the Susce Reporü.

T=4 is DOMINICK TRONZO; uncle to TERESA TRONZO, who desires

his identity be concoaled, Miller Avenue, Homer CIty, Pa.,

contacted in 1/53 by SA WILLIAM J. MYERS.

I-5 is PG 573-C contacted by SA FORTELLA on 10/6/53 and

9/13/55.

Io6 is former PA 509-l contacted by SA PORIELLA On 9/4/54

and 7/30/53.

I-T is PG 561-C, who was contacted by SA CARL Lo SHERWOOD

on 9/11/570

T=8 is PCI CHESTER STUFAK, Contected by SA PORIELLA On

12/13/54 and 10/21/55.

- 30-

NS 45836

DocId: 32332891

Page 9

---

