# docid-32305560

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

4/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10288-10190

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-96777-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HEITMAN, WALLACE R

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/29/1964

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

CC, MAYA, JUAN FRANCISCO QUINTANA, BKG, RES,

EMPLOYMENT, REL, ASSOC, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF INS

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO INS

DOCId: 32305560

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

Hote) ..

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DL 105-1778

except: they are of Spanish-American

extraction

and they had lived there

for about six months before he, BRIGHT,

began living in the neighborhood.

BRIGHT says he knows nothing more about these individuals.

He said ho

could not remember whether they had had any stickers or signs displayed

¡on their automobile.

The records of the United States Immigration and

Naturalization

Service, Dallas, Texas,

AS CONCErIS JUAN FRANCISCO QUINTANA MAYA, Immi-

gration

and Naturalization Service number Al? 707 773, were made

available

by Chief Clerk JEFFERSON D. WOOSLEY on March 30, 1964. The record con-

tains the following information:

QUINTANA waS born July 24,

1939, at Havana Cuba. His last

foreign address was Sur 53, #159, Colonia,

Ermita Churubusco, Mexico.

He is described as follows: height 65 inches; weight 120 pounds; bair

black; eyes brown; scars,

vertical scar on forshead; nationality Cuban;

white male; father, RAFAEL QUINIANA; mother, MARIA ALBERTINA MAYA; wife,

GEORGINA SANTIAGO DE QUINTANA.

Ruintana

QUINTANA entered the United

states Illegally by swimning the

Rio Grande River at Lightner's Purp, five miles east of Brownsville,

about 10:15 p.m., December 27, 1960.

He crossed with his friend,

RAUL CASTRO BAILE,

who was also apprebended.

QUINTANA advised he had left

Havana June 21, 1960, at 9:00 a.l. on

a Cubana Airlines flight to Mexico,

D. F. He lived at Chiapas #148, Colonia Roma,

Mexico, D. F., until

September 27, 1960.

On that date a got married to his present wife

and

moved into his father-in-law's house.

The father-in-law is ENRIQUE

SANTIAGO, address Sur 53,

Churubusco,

Mexico, D. F.

This file reflects QUITTANA left Mexico City on December 26,

1960,

and travelled to Matanoros,

Mexico, arriving about 8:00

p..

on December 27,

They crossed the river into the United Sates and

were later apprehended.

This file reflects QUINTANA

said be and his friend,

CASTRO, had

attended two

asiation schools in Mexico

one, the Centro Interna

clona: de Adiestramento de Aviacion Civil and the

other, Escusla de

Aviacion Mexico.

QUINTANA stated many of the

Coban students attending

these

schools were Communists and supporters

Of FIDEL CASTRO.

He said one of

these persons

was a person named ORTIZ (first name unknown).

He said

two men who lived at Chiapas 148

and who are studying to be airport tower

control men are also known Communiste.

Oot is named FRANCISCO, GARCIA-

INEZ and the other

Is named FRANCISCO

(last name unknown). He-said

DocId: 32305560

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection

Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

DL 105-1778

another Cuban named RAMÓN/HESA,

who lived at Aguascalientes 147 or 149

and who was studying airport control work was also a known Communist.

QUINTANA advised he wished political asylum in the United

States because he could not return to Cuba as long as FIDEL_CASTRO ran

the country.

He said if he were returned he could expect punishment.

", who is the nead of the

Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucion,_ living in Miami, whonhe had intended

to contact for aid.

FIa.

QUINTANA said he was an aviation student and had a private

pilot'g license issued by the Mexican Government, number 3934,

dated

December 1, 1960.

He said

266 hours of flying time.

QUINTANA had the following names

and

addresses in his

possession at the

tme of his apprehension:

MARTIN HERNANDEZ (supposedly here as a tourist)

6012 Filmore Place 64

New York,

New York

Sgt. WILLIAN R

MILLER (supposed to be 1n Korea) (bis wife is

a cousin of the subject's wife)

RA 19250449

Battery "B," 6th Howizer Battalion (SP), 15th Artillery

APO, San Francisco, California

MICHEL YABUR (kaad of MRR)

Telephore number. FR 1-1757

This

file

reflects QUINTANA was

paroled into the United States

on march 9, 196 and has notapplied for permission to reapply tor

admission to the United States.

The Immigration sod Naturalization

Service file reflects QUINTANA advised by letter of June 18, 1962,

his

new address was 1510 Kingsley Road, Apartment 209B.

He advised by letter

August 20, 1962, his new address

mas 1413 Inwood Road, Garland, Texas,

and he advised under date of August 1, 1963,

his address was then 806

East Monica, Garland, Iexas, and he was employed by KENNETH K. JENKINS,

Residence Province and Shilob, Dallas, Texas.

Dallas T-3, who is knowledgeable of many Cuban refugees and

Cuban

activities in

• Dallas,

Texas,

advised on April 15, 1964, QUINTANA

is unknown to him and is not engaged in any type of political activities

or in Cuban refugee organizations

in Dallas, to his knowledge.

DocId: 32305560

Page 3

---

