# docid-32327439

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/9/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90064-10010

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 87-20258-57

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Recorde

Collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NW 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: RH

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

06/12/1953

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

INTERSTATE TRANSPORATION OF STOLEN PROPERTY

VICTOR PEREIRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HT 54462

DocId: 32327439

Page 1

---

## Page 2

RH 87-1583

ADVINISPILTIV DITI

INFORM NIS

Miami Informant I-1, referred to in this report.

is Miami informant MM-477-P0à

Miami Informant I-2 is MM-438=C.

The reliability of these informants is not know.

one copy of this roport is being furnished the

Indianapolis and Cleveland Offices for information in

connection with current investigations being conducted in

those divisions involving persons with similar modus operandi

and name.

TLE SPRINGELELD OFFICE

it Springfiolde Illinois

Will make inquiries through confidential informants

and other porson's

with a viow to ascortaining if JMaS McDOUGiL

is known in

that Locality and if so,

ondeavor to ascertain

his whereabouts between March 20, 1953 and March 27, 1953 whor

instant swindle was perfected, beginning at St. Petersburg,

Florida, and ending at richmond,

Virginia.

It should be

borne. in mind that

according to Miami Informant MM 430-C,

McDoUGil has a fix in with the County ttorney and sheriff at

Springfiold, Illinois, who got cuts on swindle operations in

athat arca.

STIL

-FLANT.

- OFFICE

titlanta, Georgia

Will obtain all background and descriptive data

available on WiLTin&. T030, whose identification record

reflects that he was last received at the U.S. Penitentiary,

Atlanta, Georgia, 157884, Fobruary 14, 1940, to serve three

years for mail fraud.

15

HH

54162 00014:323

---

