# docid-32306095

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10289-10225

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2215

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, BU

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/08/1967

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

LCN, MAGADDINO FAMILY, B/F INT, GAMBLING ACT,

TURNER SOCIAL CLUB, OC, SUR, RAID, ARREST,

NICOLETTI, BENJAMIN JR.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, NOTE

V9.1

DocId: 32306095

Page 1

29

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

*DATE; "11-14-2017

FBI WASH DC

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

DEC 81967

TELETYPE

Vir. Tolson

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Bishop.

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt.

Mr. Gale

Mr. Roser

Mr. Sullban

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Tintter.

Tele. Room.

Miss H :Imes

aliss Gandy.

FBI-BUFFALO

1121PM URGENT 12/8/67 PJF

TO DIRECTOR (92-6054)

FROM BUFFALO. (92-337)

CLA COSA NOSTRA -BUFFALO DIVISION AR

Top Echelon Informant

AS BUREAU IS AWARE BU THREE ZERO FIVE -C-TE REPORTED ON NOVEMBER

TWENTYTHREE LAST THAT THE NICOLETTI DICE GAME HAD MOVED TO TURNER

SOCIAL CLUB FOUR ONE SIX CHICAGO ST. BUFFALO NOT. AS A RESULE OF FERD

ENGINEERED RAID OF DICE GAME AT NORTH TONAWANDA NY. OF TEN FIFTEEN

LAST. IT IS NOTED THAT THIS GAME IS A MAJOR SOURCE OF INCOME FOR STEVE

Top tichelon Intormuri,

MAGADDINO. BU FOUR ZERO NINE C-FE HAS ADVISED THAT GAME NETS MAGADDINO

AN AVERAGE OF TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS PER WEEK.

top Echelon Informant

Top Echelon Informont

BU THREE ZERO FIVE -C-IE AND BU FOUR ZERO NINE COTE SUBSEQUENTLY

FURNISHED DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF GAME LAYOUT •

ACTING ON DETAILED INFORMATION AS IO CURRENI LOCATION AND PLAN

Police Dopactment

OF INTERIOR AT GAME, BUFFALO RD TONIGHT RAIDED TURNER SOCIAL CLUB. RAID

OBSERVED BY BUREAU AGENTS. OFFICERS DETERMINED THAT DICÉ, GAME WAS IN

PROGRESS AND WERE ABLE TO OBSERVE GAME THROUGH LARGE VENTILATOR AS

DESCRIBED BY INFORMANT.

MATTER SUCCESSFUL ENTRY WAS MADE THADUCH THREE HEAVILY BARRICADED

DORRS OFFICERS.

DISCOVERED

END PAGE ONE LU dAY

• 12-12-67

A CONFLICTED SUZER SET NUTE 35,0000 T

EX-113 REC

MR. DELOACH FOR THE DIRECTOR (5C 3

XEROX

DEC 21 4087

DEC 1967

DocId: 32306095 Page 2

---

