# docid-32297864

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10220-10140

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 100-336318-26

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 US 2107 Note! .

Case#:WIT 53244 Date:

06-13-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, HAVANA

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/18/1957

2

BAYO, ALBERTO, ASSOC, PAYMENT, ARMS, REL,

ARRESTED, TRA, MED

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 53244

DocId: 32297864

Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. B4

Office Memo

m

•UNITE

OVERNMENT

Director, FBI (100-336318)*

FROM

¡ Me Legal Attache, Havana, Cuba (105-214)

DATE:

October 18,

1957

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION 79

DECLAS

NEICA

NELZASE

MA INFORMATION

A THIS DOCUMENTENCGOT

BRACERS

Gard 4-34-87

SUBJECT:

ALBERTO

BAYO, waS•,

INTERNAL SECURITY

- CUBA

REGISTRATION ACT

9.29-9

Classinen

sy spam

Declassity/ an On

By "Secret" memorandum dated October 15, 1957, the

local office

the subject

¿the cla suashod tha followias latermation regardsos

"A Controlled) American Source in Mexico City has reported

now in the Sanatorio Espanol in

Mexico City, made the following comments on 3, Ootober

concerning

ny.

his relationship with James Barton Underwood.

The information is evaluated as B-2 (that the statements

were made as reported)

"Underwood made an offerrof arms to BAYO in

New York City but the price was prohibitive and BAYO

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCI ASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

refused.

Underwood then proposed that payment be

deferred until after delivery of the arms in Cuban

waters, and BAYQ accepted this offer.

He, Underwood,

and

Alberto, BAYO Cosgaya, BAYO Giroud's son, then leit

New York by ship

Upon their arrival in Haiti,

however, an emissary from the Cuban Embassy

• told BAYO

that Underwood was in reality an agent of President BATISTA.

This information led BAYO, upon his arrest in Port-au-Prince,

to tell the Haitian authorities that Underwood's reason for

coming to Haiti was to overthrow their government junta.

The authorities then released BAYO and arrested Underwood.

Underwood is still being held prisoner in Haiti.

"BAYO traveled to Miami after his release ie halta.

From there he took a boat for Mexico, putting in at Tuxpan.

He later left Tuxpan in a small craft in company with "other"

Cubans and,

withe high seas, boarded the same vessel which

had brought him from Miami

to Tuxpan.

The vessel put in at

Yucatan, but the group

"stbetrayed by 'El Negro', the Mexican

captain of the vessel,

and they then returned overland to

Mexico City the trig

proved detrimental to

recupenating at the, 'Sanatoria

BAXO's health

HOA

CASSED BY SHES SET PENEDAS

021

100

36318-16

CDA:p tm

(6)

DECLASSI

PE RECORDED 48.

118 OCT 24 1997

reede, Milit me

JFK)

67 NOV 1

F349

SECRET - 130,

UNRECORDED

74 53244

DocId: 32297864

Page 2

---

