# docid-32570682

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde Collection Act

of 1992 144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 54464 Date: 10-11-2017

NY 100-42479

ADMINISTRATIVE CONT'D

of $199.50 had been made at another branch office in NYC but

had not been credited to the subject's account.

As a result,

the check made out in May, 1961, for rent for the apartment at

110 Christopher Street,

NYC, was not honored inasmuch as there

were insufficient funds to cover this rent.

Mr. STRINING said

that he called a telephone number in NYC, the exact number he

1s unable to recall at the present time, in connection with this

matter.

Mr. STRINING said he spoke to an unknown female who

answered his phone call, and this unknown female advised him

that "RICHARD FRANK and his wife are in Red China,

don't you

know that?".

Mr. STRINING was unable to recall this number

but will endeavor to locate the original deposit of $199.50 to

determine if there is any clue there as to the phone number he

called.

An FD-122 noting the subject's residence and employment

status is being prepared and will be forwarded separately.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NY T-1

CSNY LENORE SERKANIC

(conceal personal request)

NY T-2

NY 2101-S

File Number Where Located

Instant report

Characterization of ANN DRAPER TOMPKINS

NY I-3

JOHN ROCHFORD, Manager

Chemical NY Trust Company

Grove Street Branch

NYC

(conceal personal request)

Instant report

NY T-4

Characterization of RICHARD CYRIL FRANK

NY 2023-S* Other confidential informants who were unable to

furnish any information concerning

the subject are set forth

below:

Source

NY 2395-S

Date Contacted

6/7/61

Contacting Agent

SA JOHN P. DI MARCHI

TAL B

COVER PAGE

NW 54464 DooId: 32570682 Page 1

---

## Page 2

NY 100-42479

Source

NY 2517-S

NY 1621-S

NY 2214-S

NY 2917-S

NY 3144-S

NY 646-$

NY 367-5

NY 972-S

NY 1086-S

NY 1991-S

VY

2705-S

ANY 2816-57|4)

LEADS

NEW YORK

Date Contacted

6/7/61

6/8/61

6/8/61

5/25/61

5/25/61

5/26/61

5/31/61

6/1/61

5/31/61

5/31/61

6/6/61

6/6/61

Contacting Agent

SA JOHN P. DI MARCHI

SA JOHN P. DI MARCHI

SA JOHN P. DI MARCHI

SA SEBASTIAN S. MIGNOSA

SA SEBASTIAN S. MIGNOSA

SA JOHN A. HAAG

SA JOHN A. HAAG

SA JOHN A. HAAG

SA DAVID RYAN

SA DAVID RYAN

SA MORRIS W. HADDOCK

SA MORRIS W. HADDOCK

At New York, New York

1. Will attempt to determine the subject's employment.

2.

Will attempt to ascertain through CSNY LENORE SERKANIC,

any information she might be able to obtain re the subject's where-

abouts since November, 1959.

3.

Will report on subject's activities since return to

his former residence.

COVER PAGE

TIAL

NW 54464 DooId: 32570682 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-305 (Rev. 1-25-60)

NY: 100-42479

1

2

4

5.

6.[

7.X

9.1

10.2X

Subject's name

1s included in the Security Index.

The data appearing on the Security Index card are .

current.

Changes on the Security Index card are necessary

and Form FD-122 has been submitted to the Bureau..

A suitable photograph (X]is [ 1s not available.

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and I symbols were utilized only in those

instances where the identities of the sources must

be concealed.

Subject 1s employed in a key facility and

is charged with security responsibility. Interested

agencies are

This report 1s classified "Confidential"'

because

(state reason)

It contains information from security informants,

unauthorized disclosure of which might jeopardize their

future effectiveness and be detrimental to the national

defense. (CSNY LENORE SERKANIC)

Subject previously interviewed (dates) 4/5/56

Subject was not reinterviewed because (state reason)

subject has just returned from foreign travel after having

been away from her residence since November, 1959.

CSNY

LENORE SERKANIC has regularly reported on the subject's

past activities and is at present the sole source of information

concerning the subject.

At an appropriate time in the near

future, consideration will be given to an interview of the

subject.

This case no longer meets the Security Index criteria

and a letter has been directed to the Bureau recom-

mending cancellation of the Security Index card.

This case has been re-evaluated in the light of

Security Index criteria and it continues to fall

within such criteria because (state reason)

NY 1086-S advised on 11/3/59 that the subject was a member of

CLub number 2, Greenwich Village Section, NY County CP,

18/28/59. (Report of SA GERALD P. REIDY dated 11/25/59. 10%

addition,

It is noted that on 9/13/59, CG 5024-s* advised that

the

subject's trip..to China did have

the aporoval of the

CP, USA.

(Report of SA GERALD P. REIDY dated 11/25/60.)

11.

Subject's SI card

Subject's activities

tabbing.

is not tabbed Detçom.

X do not warrant Detcom

- D*-

COVER PAGE

NW 54464 DooId: 32570682 Page 3

---

