# docid-32306855

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10290-10495

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-2503

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, SF

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/28/1969

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS A/O ASSOC, LEADERSHIP, RECRUIT,

GAMBLING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306855

Page 1

28

---

## Page 2

3,

hella

the John F. Kepedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992

VIA TELETYPE

JAN # 81969

ENCIPHERED

339PM DEFERRED 1/28/69 JOC

TO DIRECTOR AND NEW YORK

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON

FROM SAN FRANCISCO (92-1661)

CODE

MI. Tolson_

Mr. DeLoach.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Bishop

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt

Mr. Gale.

Mr. Roser.

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy.

3P

LA

COSA NOSTRA - NEW YORK DIVISION. "AR.

ото-

RE SAN FRANCISCO TEL: AND AIRTEL TO BUREAU JANUARY TWENTY

LAST •

SF THREE TWO ZERO EIGHT DASH PO RECONTACIED AND

IDENTIFIED MARTIN "BIG JINKS" DE SAVERIO AS MEMBER OF LUCHESE

FAMILY OF LCN AND LARGE SHYLOCK IN NEW YORK CITY, LOCATED ON

PLEASANT AVE AND ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH STREET. BANKROLL FOR

SHYLOCK OPERATION IDENTIFIED AS VINCENT PASELLI, NOT KNOWN TO

SOURCE AS LON MEMBER• BROTHER-IN-LAW OF DE SAVERIO IDENT-

IFIED AS RALPH "BONES" DE MASCO, MEMBER OF LCN, FAMILY UNKNOWN,

AND SHYLOCK AND NUMBERS OPERATOR OPERATING OUT OF ECUE ON

SECOND: AVENUE BETWEEN ONE ZERO FOUR AND ONE ZERO FIVE STREETS ,NYC...

EErs, 60542543

SOURCE DESCRIBED CARMINE TRAMUNTI AS NEW BOSS OF

LUCHESE FAMILY AND HIS PERSONAL FRIEND

BIG SAM CAVAEFERT 1969

TED-ONTE

CANDIDATE FOR UNDERBOSS. TRAMUNTI PERSONALLY RUNS ALL-BOOKING,

SHYLOCKING, AND NUMBERS ON ONE ONE WOOSTREET FROM LEXINGTON

TO FIRST AVENUES IN HARLEM. ¡POEb/OE 1221N

54ESOERÇE41039IFIED PAUL VARIO, CAPO. DECINA IN LUCHESE

END PAGE ONE

TELETYPED TO: NY

DocId: 32306855 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kerr

edy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hot

DATE:• 11-14-2017

PAGE THREE

SE THREE TWO ZERO EIGHT DASH PC IDENTIFIED BROTHERS

KNOWN TO HIM AS RUMMY DALE AND PHIL AS OPERATORS OF NUMBERS..

AND JUKE BOXES IN BRONX. RUMMY IDENTIFIED AS MEMBER OF

LUCHESE FAMILY AND PHIL AS RECRUIT. PHIL HANDLES NUMBERS

AMONG PUERTO RICANS ON BROOK AVENUE IN BRONX. BOTH MAINTAIN

HEADQUARTERS AT MORRIS AVENUE AND ONE HUNDRED FIFTY STREET&

SOURCE IDENTIFIED MIKE TUSCARELLI, BUFFALO, NOY.

BOOKMAKER,

A'S RECRUIT FOR MEMBERSHIP IN GENEVESE FAMILY: SOURCE

MET TUSCARELLI'S SPONSOR, NAME UNRECALLED, WHO OWNS AND RESIDES

IN LARGE MANSION IN BUFALO, N.Y.

DETAILS BEING SENT SEPARATELY TO BUREAU, NEW YORK,

AND BUFFALO BY AM.

END

EFH R RELAY

FBI WASH DC

DocId: 32306855

Page 3

---

