# docid-32316533

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/25/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10348-10062

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 72-1511-124

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/24/1963

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

ANTHONY PROVENZANO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

• ..

• v9.1

HW 45927

DocId: 32316533

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

/ Assa (Rev. 5-1-59)

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

DATE

7/24/63

REPORT MADE BY

RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7117-7/23/63

00J

TYPED BY

mae

REFERENCE

Report of SA RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN dated 7/17/63,

at NY.

-P-

ADMINISTRATIVE

The following PCI's of the NYO were contacted

by SA RUSSEL Fo

SULLIVAN on 7/22,23/63.

had no available pertinent information regarding the

GLOCKNER shooting.

PCI

PCI

PCI

APPROVED

COPIES MADE

giffer.

SPEr CHARGENT

Bureau

(72-1511)

3

- Newark

(72-58)

(I - USA,

Newark

• - New York (72-164'

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

72-15/1-1241

NICH

BAUGH

1963

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY..

AAG

Criminat- Division

move Attention: Mr. Walter. I. Sheridan

HOW FWD. ..

.. Room 2509

BY..

a 2T.03

GESNOTABIONS E'B'!

SPAR SECTS

per Fals Neil

NW 45927/DecIAL 328165354 Page 9-64

16-76324-1

OTHER 4

REG- 18

---

## Page 3

"o

NY 72-164

ADMINISIRATIVE (Continued)

NY 3461-C advised Special Agent J. L. MARTIN on

hanging out in Brooklyn,

of $4800 to the informant.

after TRICARDO became indebted to him, he, TRICARDO,

borrowed money from another individual which was vouchec

for by CARMINE PERSICO.

that the LARRY referred to as being connected with the

TRICARDO gambling operation on President Street in Brooklyn

is possibly LARRy CERRILO; Iniormant advised that CERRILO

The informant advised that he would be alert for

any information on the whereabouts of TRICARDO and would

make this information available at once to Special Agent

MARTIN if TRICARDO is located.

÷ 23, 1963, Potential Criminal Informant

contacted by Special Agent RUSSEL F.

SULLIVAN and advised that there was little talk among

Teamsters regarding the GLOCKNER shooting. The informant

stated that the feeling among the men is that TONY PRO

(TONY PROVENZANO) was in back of the shooting; however,

there is nothing concrete to verify these feelings.

Informant further advised that cases like the

- B -

- COVER PAGE -

1H 45927.

DocId: 32316533

Pace

3

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

NY 72-164

ADMINISTRATIVE (Continued)

On July 22, 1963, PCI

was contacted

DY SA RUSSEL E. SULLIVAN•

"HAPPY"

/63. OLDS Foravised that RAY WEAN and RICHIE BARRETT

OTHER 4

heat is off.

Informant gave additional knowledge about alleged

hi-jacking activity in the New York City area.

on July23, 1963, PCI

I contacted SA SULLIVAN.

He advised that RICHIE BARRETT

told him that their attorney

in NJ wanted to see him (L

and BARRETT at 1:00 p.m.,

7/25/63.

advised that the reason was not known by

BARRETT.

The informant stated he was nervous over the matter,

as it was normal for the attorney to get in touch with him

J), and he has never received a message in this manner.

The informant brought up the point that if BARRETT suggests

the union is suspicious.

with the authorities. M

was assured that the union

would have no way of knowing

this, and → should be alert

for all information available if he visits the union office.

-C-

- COVER PAGE -

H₩ 45927

DocId: 32316533

Page

4

---

## Page 5

NY 72-164

LEADS®

NEW YORK

At New York, New York

1. Will cover immediately all leads received from

Newark.

Will maintain close contact with PCI

for any current and pertinent information he may

receive from his association with "HAPPY" REYNOLDS, NUNZIO

PROVENZANO, and others.

PENEY "YO YO" WRICARDO ANd MANNE CARETLI.

Will continue attempt to locate and interview

4. Will make additional attempt to interview

GEORGE DOUGHERTY.

- E*

- COVER PAGE -

HW 45927

DocId: 32316533

Page

5

OTHER 4

---

