# docid-32287936

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10198-10212

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-33-449

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/26/1964

1

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

CIP, ADVICE, ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

09/25/1998

COMMENTS :

Nw 43760 DocId:32287936 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

2/26/64

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priorisy or Method of Mailing)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-33)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (92-50)

CRIMINAL INTELLICENCE PROGRAM

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

Special Agent JOSEPH KORJENECK

Thoroughbred Racing

Track Protective Association, who is assigned to the fair

Grounds Race Track, New Orleans, advised that jockey PHIL

ZINST was suspended indefinitely for using a "joint" on a

horse that ran second during the first week of February, 1964.

KORJENEd explained that a joint is an electrical device

used on a horse to make the horse run.

I PCI of this office and a former

nationally

known jockey,

advised ERNST was riding horses

using a battery with knowledge of race track officials.

The batteries used by ERNST were purchased in New Orleans

from one PHIL CASTELLI, 2900 Moniteau Drive, St. Louis,

Mo. According to PCI,

ERNST was using batteries with

knowledge of several New Orleans race track officials

and was caught when one official learned that he was

not obtaining information relative to winners being

ridden by ERNST.

- Bureau

- st. Louis (InfO) HIKI

2 - New Orleans

JGP: bal

REC-41 62-9-33-449

(6)

C- Wick,

12

FEB 29 1964

42 Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

SMART

31964

Sent

_ M

Per

NW 45760 DocId: 32287936

Page 2

OTHER 4

---

