# docid-32176238

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATO: 11-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10184-10233

RECORD_SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-117290-764X4

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: AAG, DOJ/CRIM

TITLE:

DATE: 05/05/1978

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: HSCA, REQ, DOC, OLTMANS, WILLEM, DONALDSON, DONALD A

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

03/26/1997

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

DocId: 32176238 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kendedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

[E: 11-14-2017

- in

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

SECRET

Assistant Attorney Generall HAS NO O&JECTION TO

Crininal Division

May 5, 1978

Attention:

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

Mr. Robert

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Director, FBI

ON THNS DOCUMENT, JBH NE3

Mintz

9803 DD GAT

tn : Mr.

Coulson)

7

Bailey

1 - Mr. Foster

ALL FORE TOT COTAER

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE.

GLASSIFIED BY: 5668 SLO/GEL

1c,d'

REASON:

ASSASSINADION OF PRESIDENT

NOVENELA 22, 1963

DALLAS,

PEXAS

(3)

Made.

Enclosed are the orietnal and one copy of a m

menorandun responding to your memorandum of March 24, 1978,

coneerning Willen Oltnans and a "General" Donald A. Donaldson.

For your additional information, & search of PlI

Headquarters' (PBINO) files shows that Oltmans, a free-lance

Dutch Journalist, in known to have associated with George

De Mohrenschildt

and to have advised a news reporter that

De Mohrenachildt claimed to have been responsible for

Lee Harvey Oswald's actions.

TBINOS files do not confirn this

assertion. A relative of De Mohrenschildt has advised the

FBI that "Iles" concocted by Oltmans are "horridle."

FBIHE files further Indicate that a Dimiter Adanoft,

Dindtroff, also known as Dinitris Danopoulos, Dike Dikoff,

Dinitrois A. Dinitrof, D. Dimitrion, Dimitres 1. Dinitrious

and Donald Donaldson, 1s know to the FBI. lin response to a

MAILED 1h

* 5 1978

MAY

Contral Intelligence Agency (CIA) Inquiry, on October 28, 1977,

Bureau advised the CIA that Dimitroff bad once allegedly

canined he was doing work for the pI but that we had no

Keneral Dion Dimitrov

whiplonat schat Donald

sopaldson, born February 10,

the Los Angeles

1931 (Cat Winnipog, Canada,

Orfice of, Immigration and

Service under Ite mumber A12594316,

• Naturalization

that records

Denver, Colorado,

FBI Office reflectod that Donald Donaldson

was an allas of Dimitroff, who used that name in dealing with

Assoc. Dir.

at least one of bis victins in a fraudulent scheme

Dep. AD Adm..

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir::

Enelosures - 2

CIMRE 9A

62191964-2894

Adm. Servs.

62-117290-

Crim: Inv.:

MAY 9. 1978

Ident.

Intell.

Laboratory

14 ADIC, New York

- Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

'Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training

OR

SEE NOTE PAGE

Public Affs. Off

Telephone Rm

1878

Director's Sec'y! '

MAIL ROOM

Spinarme

SECRET 10.

DocId: 32176238

Page 2

---

