# docid-32130954

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

"Identification For..

vaLE.

JILVILUI

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10040-10173

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-109060-4408

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LEG, PA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/16/1967

JFK, MAGAZINE, BELGAIN, 1/12/67, SUSPECTS,

KUTSCHARENKO, IVAN, UNK

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/05/1993

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DödId: 32130954

Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

Released

Hotel.

TO

\FROM,

SUBJECT:

under

the John E. Kennedy AssassinatIon Reeards Collection Act of 1992 114 USC 2107

DATE

mi1" 2017

US GE

UNITED STATES G:

-NMENT

Memors

im

DIRECTOR,/ FBI (62-109060)

LEGAT,

PARIS (62-148) (P)

DATE: 1/16/67

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN EITZGERALD KENNEDY,..

11/22/63, DALLAS, TEXAS

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

dres

3)

Enclosed for the Bureau is one copy of an

article which appeared in the publication "Special," a

Belgian magazine, dated 1/12/67.

This was furnished by GEORGES VAN CAKENBERGHE

of the Belgian Police on 1/13/67.

The article, which

appeared on pages 31-37, indicated that a Belgian seaman

by the name of PEETERS had been advised of the possible

assassination of KENNEDY prior to his death and had

written to various United states officials, including the

president and the Director of the BlissfUSSk

The article states-that he had received informa-

tion in a bar in Antwerp, Belgium, on the night of 9/4/63

from a Soviet national named IVAN RUTSCHARENKO, who was

accompanied by four or five other persons, that president

KENNEDY would not celebrate Christmas with his family and

that he would be dead and buried by that time.

The article

contains a copy of a letter from the Director advising that

his letter had never been received by the FBI and that his

communication was being forwarded to the U..S. Secret Service.

Paris file contains a copy of this letter addressed to Mr

Louis/de Witt, Rue Breendonk 64, WilLebroes, Belgium,

dated

"October 30,

1964.

apparently a fictitious name

used by LOUIS DE WITT

It is suggested that the Bureau may wish to trans-

late this article and furnish copies of the translation, to

interested United States agencies.

poss the hatre verexene. Purnished to thre uestedlthat a

no 49408

M- JANGO 1967

• SYOR"LAB ACTION, AND. REPORI

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly nuke Payror davings Plan

Classlideva

DocId: 32130954

Page 2

---

