# docid-32300667

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

RECORD SERIES :

124-10277-10002

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4133-1ST NR 128

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#: NW 54027 Date:

08-29-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, SJ

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/08/1965

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

MRR, DRE, SNFE, MDC, JURE, ASSOC, ACA, DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: • INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

HH 54027

18

DocId: 32300667

Page 1

---

## Page 2

t+(939-12-14-64)

HEREIN IS LIMOLANCH

WHERE SHOWN OTRE

AIRGRAM

DECODEDNCOPY

I CABLEGRAM ESK RADIO

A TURORIN

O TELETYPE

Felt

Gale

Hosen

Sulliva

Tave

Trott

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

R-20

RELE!

DEFERRED 2-8-65 NITHUSIROGUN

TO DIRECTOR (705-172089) AND MIAMI (105-6133) AWA

FROM SAN JUAN

081447

MIRR

SEGUNDO FRENTE NACIONAL DEL ESCAMBRAY (SNFE), IS-CUBA.

NEUTRALITY ACT: 00: MIAMI.

•ON FEBRUARY 5 LAST TEODORO ENRIQUE CASADO CUERVO

(PROTECT), ARRIVED IN SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO ABOARD THE

MOTOR VESSEL "SHARK 5'", FROM EIGHT MONTHS IN SANTO DOMINGO,

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. ABOARD WERE SIX MEMBERS OF THE CREW

P OF THE "VENUS," A LURE VESSEL, WHO WERE EN ROUTE TO MIAMI.

THE FOUR REMAINING CREW MEMBERS ABOARD THE VENUS ARE

PRESENTLY EN ROUTE FROM SANTO DOMINGO TO PUERTO CABELLO,

VENEZUELA WHERE THEY WILL AWAIT FURTHER ORDERS FROM JURE.

CASADO STATES THAT HE HAD SPOKEN WITH DOMINICAN GENERAL

(FIRST NAME UNKNOWN) ATILA LUNA, WHO STATED THAT ELOY

GUTIERREZ MENOYO AND HIS THREE COMPANIONS FROM THE SNEE

RECENTLY CAPTURED IN CUBA, DID NOT TRAVEL TO CUBA BY BOAT;

BUT IN FACT WERE TRANSPORTED BY AIRPLANE AND DROPPED IN BY

PARACHUTE ON THREE SUCCESSIVE NIGHTS ABOUT DECEMBER 15,

1964. THE PLANE USED WAS AN UNMARKED DOMINICAN AIR FORCE

PLANE. CASADO STATED THAT AS OF FEBRUARY 3 LAST, THE

→ SNFE. STILL HAS OVER 100 MEN IN THEIR BASE IN SANTO DOMINGO

?.AND, THE USE OF TWO BOATS, THE "MAMEYES"

MANDIA SMALL SIGMA

TYPE LAUNCH BELÔNGING THE THE MDC... MARIANO BATISTA FALLA (SAR)

Classs

i DV

SP. 8. 1

(56e)

Дес

130

33-

FEB 2 4 1965

171E0

PY 5668 500/GCL5

NOT

RECORDED

COM

L#6 FEB 16 1969

0 36/97

he intelligence contained in the

above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureak it is si

aphrased in order to protect the

Bureau's cryptographic systems.

ested that it be suitably

NH 54027

Doc:

0667

Page 2

ORIGINAL, FILED IN

1050

---

## Page 3

er. 12-14-64)

DEGODED COPY

AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM *x RADIO

• TELETYPE

PAGE 2, FROM SAN JUAN 081447

MILITARY LEADER OF THE

MPG IS IN THE CAMP WITH THE SNFE.

CASADO STATED THAT THE

BERTRAM" MODEL BOAT IS NAMED THE

"JUANINY'; AND IS A 31 FOOT BOAT WITH TWO, 275 HORSEPOWER

CHRYSLER INBOARD MARINE ENGINES. THE JUANIN BELONGS TO THE

DES,

AND IS MOORED IN SANTO DOMINGO TOGETHER WITH A SMALL

ET TYPE BOAT OF THE DRE NAMED THE "SUSAN ANN." CASADO

STATED THAT THE SUSAN ANN WAS THE PT BOAT USED BY THE DRE

ON A RAID ON CUBA WHERE AN HAVANA THEATER WAS SHELLED.

CASADO STATED THAT THE MR HAS 78 MEN AND A LAUNCH NAMED

"GITANA" AT A BASE LOCATED ON BEATA ISLAND, ON THE SOUTH

COAST OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, WEST OF THE CITY OF SANTO

DOMINGO. THE MAIN MAR BASE IS STILL LOCATED IN NICARAGUA.

THE GITANA IS ONE OF THE TWO BOATS USED BY THE

MER. ON THE

ATTACK ON THE SPANISH MERCHANT SHIP OFF OF CUBA.

THIS

ATTACK BY THE MR WAS WITH THE FULL KNOWLEDGE AND UNDER

THE DIRECTION OF CIATE 4)

SOURCE STATED THAT TONY CUESTA, OF COMANDOS L, WAS IN.

THE PROCESS OF SHIPPING A LAUNCH TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

FROM MIAMI AND ESTABLISHING A BASE IN SANTO DOMINGO (DE XA,

ONI, OSI, INTC, INS, U. S. CUSTOMS AND U. S. COAST

GUARD ADVISED LOCALLY.

AIRTEL AND LETTERHEAD MEMORANDUM FOLLOWS.

RECEIVED: 12:35 PM LRC

Tolson -

Belmont -

Mohr

De Loach

Casper

Callahan.

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen -

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy

=

ORIC: DIR. DELIONT FOR DIRDORON

VIAL

the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

raphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

HH 54027 DooId:32300667 Page 3

---

