# docid-32307960

## Page 1

| Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10293-10318

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2168

NEX

• ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

Document Information

DATE:

10/28/1967

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, BONANNO FAMILY, WAR, AMMUNITION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32307960

42

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI

Date:

10/28/67

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL

Via

(Priority)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

(92-6054)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (92-853) (P)

RE:

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

MM 1231-C-TE advised on 10/28/67, that, with regard

to the BONANNO family LCN situation, he has learned that,

according to his sources; it has not improved, and is

deteriorated to the point whereby informant does not see how

a "war" can be averted.

He asserts that BONANNO will not be

deterred from controlling his family and will not back down.

Informant advises that BONANNO at least has all the necessary

weapons, ammunition and manpower needed to fulfill his ambition

in this

regard, or at least BONANNO feels certain of this.

Informant was asked how WILLIE DARA (LCN member of

BONANNO family, residing Miami feels about this and where he

will stand in loyalty and advised that DARA, if pinpointed

by his Regime, will ask to be put in inactive status, that

he is "too old" for this nonsense.

Informant states that he learned from a source whose

reliability is not certain and therefore cannot state the

degree of veractiy of the information, that the brother-in-

law of TOMMY LUCHESE has stepped in and has taken over the

LUCHESE family. Informant is not aware of the name of this

individual.

- Bureau (RM)

2

-

New York (92-2300) • (RM)REC 53

2

- Miami

RRH: jgm

" Not a-237-553-6954-9165

(7)

11 OCT 30 1967

To Bishop

Ipproved:

Sent

_M

Per

2.8

DocId: 32307960 Page 2

CaSpecial Agent in Charge

---

