# docid-32397463

## Page 1

Date: 12/18/98

Page:

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Dod @ 104-10433-10146

JFK

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

P. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53216 Date:

06-13-2017

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

CIA

PRESS ITEM FOR THE DCI

04/25/

4

KING

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION UNCLASSIFIED

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS

OPEN IN FULL

CURRENT STATUS

OPEN

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/18/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

POSTPONED IN fuLL

JFK-RH19: F09 1998.12.18.09:00:50:606128:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

53216

DocId: 32397463

Page

---

## Page 2

TOF

S5CR0E

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

PRESS ITEM FOR THE

UNCLASSIFIED

DISTRIBUT

DICI

DIjI

DOC!

ONE:

059

CHOPSCEN

INDICO

C500

SAVA-

O5D

fe

mea

D0t:. 20_ ADI

ten: 212i

35

KING- SUSPECT. (TOPS 7)

MEXICO CITY CAPD-MEXICAN AUTHORITIES QUESTIONED TODAY A U.S.

CITIZEN WEY SAID RESEMBLES THE MAN WANTAD ON A CHARGE

OF SLAYING

OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JP., THEN RELEASED MIM WITHOUT PRESSING

ANY CHARGES:

WHO SAID HE WAS ON A WALKING

DANIEL DAVID KENNERO OR BADENIED ANY CONTECTION WITH YING E

TOUR OF

THE STATE OF SONORA

DEATH.

AN FBI

IDENTIFIED ONLY AS MR.

SAID THERE

WAS NO RESEMBLANCE

AACE TETREEN KENNEDY" AND THE

SUSPECT:

JAMES EAPLY

PAY, ACCORDINS

TO POLICE IN TUE CITY OF HERMOSILLO.

LT. ROBINTi

FLETCHER OF

THE JUDICIAL POLICE IN

CADORCA: SONORA;

HAD TAKEN KENNEDY INTO CUSTONY

FROM A CABORCA NOTFI..

KENNEDY'S

PEARK

IN BALTIZORIRO COUNECTION.

HOTHERS DOESN'T EVÊN

KENNEDY

SUSAID,

LOOK

LIKE

"THERE IS JUST

HI::

RAY.

C2110SAES '4/25

328

¡ Commens:

51-4853233

Three canmenis arpiront lie initial end centele praction di die Oilico

le to directed ilone derer dr news services.

NW. 53216 DocId:32397463 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Fraises

DRIFT

26

ApFil 1968

KING ASSASSINATION AND USIB

-=

DC.I:

A GencIal:

1. Request the the FEderal Bureau ne Juvestigation

give a fullicport to Sie oa

(date)

on the strias of the investigation di the zeazesiaation

of Di. Martin Talber Kiag, Jr.

B. Specific:.

1. Is there any indication inat Ray bas left the

USA?

2. Il 50, then, to what country of area, and by fbat

means and route?

3. Is there asy indication that Ray had in the past

travelled outside the United Staleg other than the

October - November 1967 trip to Mexico is Galt?

4. Is there ery sidication that Ray had been iscued a

U.S. passport lader his trun same of auy of his

aliascs?

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 13/ncu 1978

329

HM 59816

DocId: 32397463

Page 3?

---

## Page 4

Is ihere any indication toas Ray had asy connectios

with any foreige intelligesce austice? l so, please

proride all possible deizile.

6. Is there any indication that Ray had zoy consection

with foreigaers in the United Stales, especially

ORbara and Soricis?

7. Did Eüg have aiy Corridiat connectious?

8. Did Ray ever coress suy interest in CoronnisIa?

9. Did Ray ever indiraio any intorest in Cuba, Castro,

or the Cuban itrolsion?

10. Does it zopear that Rey lad any accoroplices? l

50, hare any beca identified?

11. Has the EBi ideasified /or Ray'a ciode sriends

or

abBuciaies?

12. Have any contacts roade by Ray in Mexico daring

October/Mareraber. 1967 beca idesilica?

13: If zuy accomplices, zaspsiaces, on contacts bage.

Been idcutified, are any of them Comaranists or

'associated sita Commuaists, fozeiga officials, or

foreige intelligence services?

HH 53216 DocId: 32397463 Page 4

---

## Page 5

14. Does the FBI think tbat Ray was hired to assassinate

King?

i5. If so, is there any indication that Communista

a foreige power were involved?

16. Has it been posaibla to recover and trace the origia.

of any of the $20 bills used by Ray to purchase ibe

rifle and make other payments?

17.

On 19 April 1968 CIA furnished to the FBI paotographa

†B-fof an accome individual zesembling Ray. Fas

the FBI determined whether or nor this pezron is

possibly identical with Ray?

IH4-0593732

- 3-

HH- 53216

DocId: 32397463

Page 5

---

