# docid-32309480

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10298-10267

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1693-31

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Recorde

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

DWYER, ROBERT JAMES

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 07/31/1961

PAGES:

51

SUBJECTS :

INTERPEN, INTV, NUMEROUS INDIVIDUALS, MIL TRAINING.

CAMP, ASSOC, MIL SERV, BKG, DESCR, RES, EMP, REL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32309480

Page 1

35

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

Offce of Origin

MIAMI

Date

7/31/61

Report made by

ROBERT JAMES

CHARACTER OF CASE

Insestigative Period

6/23 - 7/20/61

INTERCONTINENTAL, FENETRATION

FORCES (INTERPEN)

NM

16126

Synophis:

REFERENCE:

Miami airtel to Bureau, 7/10/61,

Miami teletype to Bureau, 7/7/61,

Miami teletype to Bureau, 7/3/61,

entitled Revolutionary Junta for

National Liberation, IS - CUBA,

Typod By

ush/mi

86

RAS NO OSJECTION TO

napon, star

DECLASS OR OR ANG/ON

DATE FORW. 9,23 -20

RELENSE CIA IM ORMATIONLEADS

HOW FORW. K/S

MIAMI

IN THIS DOCUMENT: KP 2-3-98

BY LTG/IR

SID/KSR,

1) WiLL continue do fill and report activeles of

captioned organization.

ON.5/4/94..

JFK).

10104.77

Special Agent

In Charge

Approved

Copies mate ig

Bureau (2-1693) (RM).

1 - U.S. Border Patrol, Miami (RM)

- U.S. Customs, Miami (RM)

3 - Miami. (2-312)

Do not wilte in spaces below:

1693+

CORRECTED FIRST PAGE

coplessa 14178

Interpen

SCT

50 by

Ce TO:

H.1)

RED. RECO. 328-42.

MAY 2 2 1967

ANS.

BY:.

mit.

52534294

NOV

2

• 196k

NRECORDED COPY FILED

opeit

A Late repot salleed, to you by. the FBl, and holther it nor its contents are fo be distribured ourside the ancy to which loone

*/Ung. COVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1958 0-844750

NW 53074 DocId: 32309480

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 2-312

2)

Will maintain daily contact with MM 639-S

ce INTERPEN.

INFORMANTS

Identity

MM T-1 1s MM 639-5

16177

Location

134-238, Sub

A 442,

43: 445, 46, 467, and 2)

448.

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and "T" symbols were utilized only in those instances

where it was necessary to conceal their identities.

(COVER PAGE)

174 53074

DocId: 32309480

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-204 (Rey: 3-3-59).

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy tor

U. S. Border Patrol, Miami (RM)

•U. S. INS, Miami (RM)

Repor ali

Dotes

ROBERT JAMES DWYER

July 31, 1961

Field Olfice File #3: 2-312

Tiles

INTERCONTINENTAL PENETRATION

FORCES (INTERPEN)

Office Maal, Florida

Bureau File

#:

2-1693

an.

Choractery

Syno

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

di

On 6/28/61, GEORGE W. TANNER,

said he wis

Former head

of an anti-CASTRO organization called Anti-Commist

Legionnaires. "Tel said AGUSTIN CAPO was

go tO BWI

on 5/27/61, with some INTERPEN menhers but postponed

trip. GERALD PATRICK FEMMING On 7/3/61,

said he is

head Of INIERPEN; has 20 members; planned to establish

training camp; purpose is to train Cubans

In pilitary

techniques.

INTERPEN had parachuting exereise at

Davie,

Florida, on 7/2/61.

HEMMING said he had been in

contact with organizations of SANCEL ARANCO,,

FRD,

MRP.

and

HEMMING said he was in Cuba fron January,

1959, to

August, 1960; conmanded a Cuban Air Force Base:

worked

With WILLLAM ALEXANDER 'MORGAN, and talked against American

imperialists.

HEMMING said that newspaper pubiieity caused

. many Americans to write and visit him offering their

services.

Military record and background for LeMMING

set

forth.

Tol said HEMMING had camp at

Davie

Florida

Menber's

LIve

n cheap

hotels,

stay in organizacion shore

time, then

leave. ROY ERNEST BRYANT, JOE CAVENDISE CARMAN,

, JOHN

LEE

PETERS, FRANK BURNS LITTLE advised they were In

INTERPEN

because they liked living outdoors, suwival

training,

parachuting, keep in physical condition, and for health

reasons

Newspaper publicity set forch.

00. 707/61,

HEMMING thrown out of residence because of police and

Corrected Pony st renort

88

to outside agency. Do not permanently

remove from file,

= Po

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and la loaned lo

wnie.saonev.-lt.and.ite.contents.are.not.tn.he.nistrthi.ted.onte.tne.vnur-nrAneV.

NW 53074 DooId: 32309480 Page 4

3/

---

## Page 5

MM 2-31,2

RJD:ush

DETAILS:

On June 17, 1961, MM T-1, who has been engaged in

Cuban revolutionary activities for the past four years,

advised GEORGE TANNER. West Palm Beach, Florida, who calls

himself Colonel TANNER, was previously associated with

ROLANDONASPERRES MOJAS, a former Cuban Senator, residing

In Miami, Florida.

During April and May, 1961, TANNER

formed the Anti-Communist Legionnaires, an organization

of American adventurers, to participate in some military

action to overthrow the Cuban Government. TANNER subsequent-

ly set up a training camp in the Florida Keys, where the

Americans belonging to his organization were to be trained

by TANNER. It soon became apparent TANNER had no knowledge

of military affairs; was considered psychopathic, and the

training camp was disbanded. TANNER left the organization,

which was then taken over by GERALD PATRICK HEMMING.

74 53074

ДосТА: 32309480

Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 2-312

RJD: ush

a Cuban

On June 30, 1961, MM T-1 advised that AUCUSTINE CAPO,

national residing

in Miami, Florida, had access to

a boat located

somewhere in the Florida Keys and planned

to make a recomaissance trip from Florida te, Cay Aguilla,

Cay Sal Bank, British Islands,

Located north of cube.

The trip was supposed

to have been made on May 21, 1961,

and GERALD PATRICK HEMMING and two or three other members

Of HEMMING'S grOUp

were supposed to go along on the trip.

They planned to make a clandestine trip to Cay Aguilla

and then return to set up a military base to be used

for future commando raids against Cuba. MM T-1 explained

that the plan was indefinitely postponed inasmuch as

U.S. Border Patrol was

closely watching CAPO and the

boat.

CAPO was afraid to leave Florida, fearing that

U. S. Border Patrol would arrest him. CAPO has no immediate

plane for say such trip to the mear fuzure @la)

53074

DooId: 32309480

Page 6

---

## Page 7

MM 2-312

RJD: ush

MM I-1 on July 6, 1961, advised that HEMMING

had sent about six of his men to Davie, Florida, to

establish a camp at the west side of the Davie Airport.

These men were living in an old shack and were practicing

military exercises and survival but had no arms or other

equipment.

MM To explained that HEMMING had made some

contact at Key Largo, Florida, and expected to take

these men to Key Largo, Florida, where they would con-

tinue their survival training.

MM T-1 said that HEMMING

is quite busy, inasmuch as during the past week at least

twenty-five men have come into Miami to join him; he has

many news and press conferences; is in contact with

different Cuban revolutionists; and 1s trying to operate

a training camp.

HEMMING has repeatedly told the new

volunteers that his organization is presently low on

food and

money, and that they should check again with

him in a week or two.

i s 32-1926

MM T-1 said that a GEORGE/VILLIAMS,

an American,

has been seen using the typewriter at the Junta Office,

typing statements for Interpen dealing with the aims and

purposes of the organization. His wife also types at

the Junta Office for Interpen (

MM I-1 said that JOHNNY ANLLIONAIRES (phonetic),

who runs a war surplus store in Hialeah, Florida, recently

dotated a large box of uniforms to HEMMING. These uniforms

consist of used gas station attendant uniforms and old

Army tatigue suits. (9)M)

MM T-I explained that the best estimate of Inter-

pen's membership is that it has about twenty members.

• 22

NW 53074 DooId: 32309480

Page 7

---

## Page 8

B. "art Forn

FD. 19 15082-55)

CONtENTIA!

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

IINTERCONTINENZAL PENETRATION

FORCES (INTERPEN)

Office of Origia

MIAMA T777013 VOL $ 1 1961

Investigative Period

6/23/

Report made by

RÖBERT JAMES DWYER

CHARACTER OF CASE

7/20/61

IS - CUBA

Typed By:

ush

REFERENCE:

Miami airtel to Bureau, 7/10/61,

deletype to Bureau, 7/7/61,

texetype to Bureau, 1/3/61

entitled Revolutionary Junta tol

National Liberatión, IS - CUBA,

Bufile 105-992364

P-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

LEADS

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIED

MIAMI

BATE 1/85

(SP&MAC/GCL- 74/94-572)

1) Will continue to follow

and report activities of

captioned organization.

TIE INKORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN 1S ONSTASGIFIED

EXCEFT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Appioved

Copies made:

WE wSt

Spocial Agent

In Charge

Do not wilte in spaces below

2-1693-33/ REGEZ

Bureau (2-1693) (RM)

1 - U.S. Border Patrol, Miami (RM)

1 - U.S. Customs,

Miami (RM)

3

- Miami (2-312)

Lite te

9-10-61

176 Pee

mass seen

Just

rporty of FBI. This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

I U.s. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1958 0-344750

WH 53077

DocId: 32309480. Page 8

---

## Page 9

.FD-201,(Rev. 3-3-59)

ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

STICE

eat fini

Copy to:

U.S. Border Patrol, Miami (RM)

1.=

U.S• INS, Miami (RM)

Report of:

Date:

ROBERT JAMES DWYER

SOL 8 1 1961

Field Office File #:

2-312

Title:

INTERCONTINENTAL

PENETRATION

FORCES (INTERPEN

Ofice: Miámi, Florida

Bureau File #:

* 2-1693

DECLASSIFIED BY SPEMA LOT

ON 5$194

Character:

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Synopsis:

On 6/26/61, GEORGE W. TANNER,

JR. said he was former head

of an anti-CASTRO organization called Anti-Communist

Legionnaires. *T=1 said AGUSTIN CAPO was to go to BWI

on 5/27/61, with some INTERPEN members but postponed

trip. GERALD PATRICK HEMMING on 7/5/61, said he is

head of INTERPEN; has 20 members; planned to establish

training camp; purpose is to train Cubans in military

techniques

INTERPEN had parachuting exercise at

Davie, Florida, on

0/2/61. HEMMING said he had been in

contact with organizations of SANCHEZ ARANGO, FRD,

MRP •

HEMMING said/ he was in Cuba from January, 1959, to

August, 1960; commanded a Cuban Air Force base; worked

with WILLIAM

ALEXANDER MORGAN, and talked against American

imperialists. HEMMING said that newspaper publicity caused

many Americans to write and visit him offering their

services. Misitary record and background fot. HEMMING set

forth. T-I said HEMMING had camp at Davie, Florida, Kand

police ordered them to leave within 24 hours

Members.

live in cheap hotels, stay in organization shorc

time then

leave. ROS ERNEST BRYANT, JOE CAVENDISH CARMAN, JOHN LEE

PETERS, FRANK BURNS LITTLE advised they in INTERPEN because

they liked living outdoors, survival training, parachuting,

keep la physical condition, and for health reasons. News-

paper publicity set forth.

On 7/7/61, HEMMING thrown out

of residence because of police and press inquiry.

P-

papert"

This document contans neither recommendations nor conclusions ofithe: E.Bl:. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its/contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 53074 DooId:32309480 Page 9

---

