# docid-32295288

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

4/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10215-10064

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-6683-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

ROSEN, A.

TO: BELMONT

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/08/1963

1

FCH, TEAMSTERS ACT, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/06/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DolId: 32295288

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

C

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

MT.

Behtiont

FROM

A. Rose

DATE: May 8, 1963

PLEASE FORWARD IN

SEALED ENVELOPE

Tolson

Belmont _

Mohr _

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad -

DeLoach_

Evans

Gole

Rosen

welvan

lavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes --

Gandy -

SUBJECT:

FRANK

ANTI-RACKETEERING

In view of the highly confidential nature of the source

from whom we have obtained information relating to the captioned

matter, it is recommended that a new 92-classification file be

opened

and maintained in the Confidential File Room.

Briefly, it is alleged that Frank Chavez, Secretary-

Treasurer of Teamsters Local 901, San Juan, Puerto

Rico, attempted

to shake down the owners of four

hotels in

1 San Juan. As a result

of this the owner of one of the hotels reportedly gave unknown

members of the criminal element in New York a "contract" to kill

Chavez; however, this matter reportedly was resolved peacefully/

at a later date.

It is noted that attempts by Chavez to shake

down hotel owners may constitute violations of the Anti-Racketeering

Statute.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

(1) That this memorandum be forwarded to the Files and

Communications Division in odor that a lou case can be opened

and maintained in the Confidential File Room.

UNRECOROEO

(See

3/6J°-

Juir

Romes

2. That access

Specific apprayal of one of the following:

to this file be had only with the

Assistant Director

A. -Rosen; Section Chief Albert J. McGrath or Supervisor Ernest F.

Kieffer of the Accounting and Fraud Section.

1.2

- Mr.-Tavel

EFK: eem

•(8) 266

§ MAY 1 5 1963

DocId: 32295288

Page 2

REC- 101

BiE XEROX

MAY 101900

92-

6683

BE MAY 10 1963

---

