# docid-32318128

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 7107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10356-10305

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 72-2382-689

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: OT

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

* PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/13/1979

5

JUDITH CAMPBELL EXNER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC 2 RPT, LTR

09.1

DocId: 32318128 Page 1

101

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hoter-

DATE: 11-14-2017

•D-36 (Rev. 5-22-78)-

TRANSMIT VIA:

Teletype

H'acsimile

AIRTEL

FBI

SEDENCE:

Immediate

Priority

Routine

CLASSIFICA IN:

TOP SECRET

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLAS EFT O

UNCLAS

Date

3/13/79

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (72-7382)

FROM LEGAT, OTTAWA (72-5) (RUC)

RE :

ROSKIL

0OJ (A)

OO- MIAMI

Re Miami Airtel to Bureau, 1/22/79.

Enclosed for the Bureau and Miami are the original and

two copies of RCMP letter dated March 13, 1979, and three copies

each of two enclosures thereto (RCMP Reports dated February 22,

1979, at Vancouver, British Columbia and February 27, 1979, at

Montreal, Quebec.).

Please note dissemination restrictions.

MIAMI advise if further investigation is desired at

Montreal, Quebec.

- BUREAU (72-7382) (Enc.

(1 - Foreign Liaison-direct)

(1 - Miami (92-517)

1 - OTTAWA (72-5)

RLM/ gd

(5)

12-2382.689

REC-124)

28 MAP 20 187

APR = 81979

Transmitted

(Number)

Per

(Time)

DocId: 32318128 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Heleased

inder the John F. Kennety

DATE • 11-14-2017

REEDFISECOFECFION-H0

PLEASE ADDRESS

CORRESPONDENCE TO:

THE COMMISSIONER

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

OTTAWA, CANADA

KIA OR2

HEADQUARTERS

DIRECTION GÉNÉRALE

PRIÈRE D'ADRESSER LES

LETTRES COMME SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE

GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANADA

OTTAWA, CANADA

KIA OR2

YOUR NO.

VOTRE N°

72-5

OUR NO.

NOTRE N°

79HQ-790-1

79-03-13

Mr. Robert L. Moore

c/o United States Embassy

100 Wellington Street

Ottawa, Ontario

Re: ROSKIL

This is in reply to your correspondence of 79-02-07.

You will find attached copies of reports from our

Montreal and Vancouver G.I.S. referring to the telephone

numbers which you have supplied.

Telephone number 705-724-5144 is subscribed by

John Struyk, R.R.#l, Powassan, Ontario. No criminal recoro

and no detrimental information learned.

Please be assured of

our continued cooperation in

matters of mutual interest.

Bellant

D. Chiarot, Inspector

Acting Officer in Charge

Federal Policing Branch

Attach:

unis docunent is the poneity at the Gorerument of Canal,

It Is loaned to sour Agency only and it is not to be restassified or

further dissemictad sitiout the cessent of the origiactor.

Le présent docomeat est la proprieté eu convernement do

Canada: Il est mis à la dispositian de valse saul organisme: sa cate

de sécurité ne pout être modilice el il ne dait être transmis à mul

astre organisme sans l'assenument de l'expéditeur.

72-2382-689

ENCLOSURE

320-10828

DocId:32318128 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F.

Kennedy As

sination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE; 11 ROYAU CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE - GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU. CANADA

OTHER FILE REFERENCES:

REF. AUTRES DOSSIERS:

PCR: First Here

DIVISION

DATE

79 FE

SUB-DIVISION / SOUS-DIVISION

District #1

DETACHMENT - DÉTACHEMENT

General Section.

RCMP FILE REFERENCES:

REF. DOSSIERS GRC:

22

79-328

RE: - OBJET:

John ROSELLI

MURDER OF

ASSIST FEDERAL POLICING BRANCH

1.

Subjects in the Vancouver area subscribing to the following

telephone numbers are

(604) 685-9073

D. SAVARD

#301 1078 Harwood St.

Vancouver, B.C.

(604) 736-0028

• Michael HENDERSON

Main Floor

2645 W.5th Ave

Vancouver, B.C.

Credit Bureau checksion subjects were negative as both

are not listed with the Vancouver Credit Bureau.

An arrest check

could not be done as there was no further information on subjects,

however, CPIC Wants was checked and revealed numerous subjects with the

above surnames wanted.

CONCLUDED HERE

2l1 :

OIC GEN: SEC.

AM Ail

Cst.

(B.M. Tuckey!

26907

This document is the property ol the torerament of Canada?

It is loaned to your Agonsy Esty and it is no? lo to rectassified or

le présero documen cat la mariao du scavernement du

Canada. li est mis à lo dispucito: do inare such orcarisar, sa cote

de sécunté ne cout eire one a do cod tire transmis à mul

autre orgenise sans l'asstalaoni de l'endiakeur.

28-2382-689

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32318128 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Keleased under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Aot

DATE: UNO YE CANADIAR MOUNTED POLICE GENDARMERE ROYALE DỦ CANADA'""? NOt

OTHER FILE REFERENCES:

REF. AUTRES DOSSIERS:

RE: - OBJET:

DIVISION

DATE

"C"

SUB-DIVISION SUSOVIS Y 9-02

Metro

DETACHMENT - DETACHEMENT

S,E.G.

John ROsinnI

Murder of

Ass't to F.BII.

RCMP FILE REFERENCES:

REF. DOSSIERS GRC:

79HQ-790-1

790-791-11

lo

Further to the report of the Federal Polining

Branch in Ottava, the following was obtained.

2.

The subscribers to the following telephone

numbers are as follows:

=)

514-525-0961

D. KISILENKO

1266 St-Joseph least, app. 2, Montreal

No record at our central registry

514-334 8852

V. DUQUENLE

11,794 de St-Real, Montreal, P.l.

record at our central registry

c)

514-271-8543

Raymond VIAU

Quebec

registry

d)

e):

514-288-4474

Not in service

Can't trace back more than three months

with telephone company

514-843-5870

R. PELLETIER

3951 Berri, Montreal, Quebec

No record at our Central registr

1)

514-523-4621

N. BOUCHER

3485 Papineau, Montreal, Quebec

No record at our central registry

This document is the preperty of the Goverment of Canada:

It is loaned to rour Agency onts and it is not lo be rectassified or

turbor dissernsica miniasi ilo porcentad the gricimator.

Le présent document cot la pretraté du goovernement

Canada. M est mis à ta discoalian de reino sout organisae: sa cote

...12

ENCLOSURE

de sécurité de peal éle

esthe it ine trid otre tracemis à aut

autre organisme sans l'assentiment de Pespéditeur.

72-2382-689

DocId: 32318128

Page 5

---

## Page 6

the John F.

Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Adt of

1992 (44 USC 2107 M

DATE: 11 ROVAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE - GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANADA

OTHER FILE REFERENCES:

REF. AUTRES DOSSIERS:

RE: - OBJET:

DIVISION

DATE

"C"

79-02

SUB-DIVISION / SOUS-DIVISION

Métro

DETACHMENT - DÈTACHEMENT

S.E.Ge

John ROSEMAI

Murder of

Ass't to F.BII.

RCMP FILE REFERENCES:

REF. DOSSIERS GRO:

79HQ-790-1

790-791-11

lo

Further to the report of the Federal Polining

Branch in Ottawa, the following was obtained.

20

The subscribers to the following telephone

numbers are as follows:

514-525-0961

D. KISILENKO

1266 St-Joseph east,

app. 2, Montreal

No record at our central registry

514-334-8852

V. DUQUENTE

11,794 de St-Real, Montreal, P.Q.

No record at our central registry

c)

514-271-8543

Raymond VIAU

6364 Bordeaux, Montreal,

Quebec

No record at our Central registry

d)

514-288-4474

Not in service

Can't trace back more than three months

with telephone company

e)

514-843-5870

R. PELLELIER

202 or at out bent a begstry

514-523-4621

N. BOUCHER

3485 Papineau, Montreal

Quebec

No record at our central registi

This document is the property of the Gorammeit of Canada:

It is loaned to jour leney only and it is nai to be rectassified of

tuither dissemasted catinat lue docean! at lie originaler.

Le présent desument eat lo procraté éu gousememeat du

Canada. I es! mis à ta discoction de void soul argenisae, sa cote

de stcutile fie podt eite

mcdéc it t no dea ate tracemis à oul

...12

DocId: 32318128

Page 6

---

