# docid-32291542

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/20/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10207-10318

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 166-4355-158

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, SF

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/28/1976

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

[Restricted)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

Unclassified

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

N1 45840 DocId: 32291542 Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

+17

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESIGATIOI

COMBUNICATIONS SECTION

WAY 278 1976

SF NR 141

PE

NR 026 SF CODE

•Assoc.

Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm..

Dep:-A.D.-Inv..

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Fixt. Affairs

Fin. & Pers

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

laboratory

Ioral Ccun.

Plun. & Eval.

8:25 PM NITEL MAY 28, 1976,

TO:

DIRECTORS

FBI

BOSTON (92-1132)

MJE

aning

Telephong Rr

Dirccior Bec'y

Mirr

FROM:

SAN FRANCISCO (92-351) (P)

RAYMOND L. S.

PATRIARCAS ET ALI ITAR =

GAMBLING 00J

RE BUREAU TELETYPE TO SAN FRANGLO

0 MAY 26, 1976.

ON MAY 27, AND MAY. 28, 1976, SAS JOHN CONNOLLY, DENNIS MA

CONDON, BOSTON OFFICE, AND SAS LEROY M. TEIISWORTH AND CHARLES

NO HINER, SAN FRANCISCO, CONDUCTED EXTENSIVE INTERVIEWS WITH

‹ FORMER SF 2661-C-TD.

ON MAY 27, 1976,

WAS APPRISED BY BOSTON

AGENTS OF INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION RECEIVED AT BOSTON THAT

HE WAS GOING TO BE ELIMINATED BECAUSE OF HIS INVOLVEMENI

IN THE MURDER OF JOSEPH BARBOZA BARON AT

•ERANCISCO

ON FEBRUARY 11, 1976, AND BECAUSE FXEIOGANIZATION

-

PEOPLE

FELT THAT HE WOULD "OPEN UP".

INITIALLY DENIED

ANY INVOLVEMENT OR KNOWLEDGE CONCERNING THE MURDER.

ON MAY 28, 1976,

ADMITTED THAT DURING

NOVEMBER, 1975, HE FURNISHED TO LON FIGURE JOSEPH RUSSO

OF BOSTON,

INFORMATION AS TO

ADDRESS AT SAN

4355=158

7.

JUN 3 1976

CRYPE MECT

OTHER 2,4

OTHER 2,4

OTHER 2,4

55 JUN2 9 1976'

NW 45840 DocId: 32291542 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-

PAGE TWO

SF 92-35 1.

FRANCISCO AND THAI BARON WAS VISITING WITH HIM ON A DAILY

BASIS. HE ADMITTED SUBSEQUENT THERETO HE WAS IN

TELEPHONIC CONTACT WITH RUSSO ON OTHER MAITERS, INCLUDING

CONTACIS A DAY OR TWO PRIOR. TO THE MURDER ON PRACTICALLY

EACH CONTACT RUSSO INQUIRED AS TO WHETHER OR NOT BARON

WAS STILL IN THE AREA AND MAINTAINING CONTACT WITH

HE STATED THAT HE ALWAYS ADVISED RUSSO THAI HE WAS.

EMPHATICALLY DENIED ANY INVOLVEMENT IN THE

MURDER OF BARON OTHER THAN THE FACT THAT HE FURNISHED

RUSSO THE WHEREABOUTS OF BARON. HE ADMIITED THAT BY

FURNISHING THIS INFORMATION TO RUSSO HE HAD "GIVEN BARON

UP".

STATED THAI HE BELIEVES RUSSO WAS RESPONSIBLE

FOR BARON'S MURDER, HOWEVER. DENIED KNOWING WHO HANDLED

THE HIT. HE DENIED RECEIVING ANY MONEY, CONSIDERATION, OR

FAVORS.

FOLLOWING TERMINATION OF INTERVIEW ON MAY 28, 1976,

ADMITTED TO SA HINER THAT HE WAS IMPRESSED.

WITH THE FACT THAT THE BUREAU IMMEDIATELY INFORMED HIM

OTHER 2,4

OTHER 2,4

OTHER 2,4

OTHER 2,4

...

NW 45840 DocId: 32291542 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAGE THREE

SF 92-351

REGARDING A HIT CONTRACT OUT ON HIM, AND THAT THE PERSONAL

PRESENTATION BY BOSTON AGENTS CONVINCED HIM HE SHOULD

ADMIT HIS INVOLVEMENT AS STATED.

FOR INFORMATION SAC BOSTON THE PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT,

EXPERTISE, AND OVERALL KNOWLEDGE OF ORGANIZED CRIME

MATTERS BY SAS CONDON AND CONNOLLY WAS OBVIOUSLY OF

PARAMOUNT IMPORIANCE IN CONVINCING

TO DISCLOSE

HIS ROLE IN THIS MATTER.

INFORMATION FURNISHED BY

WILL BE DISCUSSED

WITH SAN FRANCISCO AND BOSTON STRIKE FORCE ATTORNEY'S AND

EVALUATED IN VIEWIOF POSSIBLE PRESENTATION TO FEDERAL

GRAND JURY AT SAN FRANCISCO AND OR BOSTON.

•BOSTON AGENTS: WILL DEPART SAN FRANCISCO MAY 29, 1976.

BUREAU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED.

END.

-

NW 45840

DocId: 32291542 Page 4

OTHER 2,4

OTHER 2,4

---

