# docid-32300194

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10226-10474

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-86406-1ST NR 21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/11/1965

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

GPH, ASSOC, EXPEDITION, REVOLUTIONARY ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

4

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45812 DocId: 32300194

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

43 (REv, 12-14-61)

SECRA

INTORN

AEONCONTATHED

SIFIED

DECODED COPY

FISE

AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

V.

• RADIO XXXJELETYPE

Contad.

Felt.

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel.

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy.

12:43 AM EST DEFERRED

TO DIRECTOR

FROM MIAMI

DECLASSIS

CATION AND/OR

110300

RELEASE OF GIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

2-5-98 NEUTRALITY BATTERS

CONSTANZO PALAU; GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, ETAL, NM,

ANTONIO

ÁS-DR

INTERNAL SECURITY-DOMINICÁN RepubLiC

3

8

N

RE CIA. MESSAGE JUNE GRAST ENTITLED. "RECRUITMENT. OF CUBA

EXILES IN MIAMI, FLORIDA TO ASSIST GENERAL ANTONIO IMBERT AS

BARRERAS, HEAD OF THE LOYALIST FORCES IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

A CUBAN REFUGEE IN MIAMI, WHO HAS FURNISHED

OTHER 4

RELIABLE INFO

IN THE PAST, AND WHO REQUESTED HIS IDENTITY BE

PROTECTED, ON JUNE 10 INSTANT FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING.

CONSTANZO AND HEMMING IN MIAMI ARE RECRUITING CUBAN REFUGEES

AND AMERICAN ADVENTURERS TO GO TO THE DR AS COMMANDOS.

AFTER THE TOTAL OF 49 CUBANS AND 11 AMERICANS. ARE RECRUITED

THEY WILL BE ARMED WITH FAL AND AR 15 RIFLES AND SENT TO DR BY

PRIVATE PLANE. THEY WILL HAVE VISAS TO ENTER DR. EACH COÑMÁNDO

WILL RECEIVE 200 TO 250 DOLLARS ON DEPARTURE FROM. USA AND WILL

RECEIVE $50 A DAY. COMBAT PAY. CONSTANZO CLAIMS THEY WILL LEAVE

ON JUNE 12 NEXT; PLACE OF DEPARTURE UNKNOWN. THE RECRUITS HAVE

NO ARMS AS YET. THE SOURCE OF THE ARMS AND MONEY: IS UNKNOWN.

#CONSTANZO CLAIMS THE SOURCE IS GENERAL IMBERT AND THE COMMANDOS

WILL FIGHT WITH HIS FORCES. HEMMING CLAIMS THE SOURCE OF MONEY

IS AMERICAN BUSINESS MEN WHO ARE EMPLOYING THESE COMMANDOS TO

GUARD THEIR FACTORIES AND BUSINESSES

AN

OTHER 4

HIS SOURCE IS RAMON ESCARDA RUBIO WHO

IS IN CONSTANT CONTACT WITH: DO

CONSTANZO AND HEMMING.

SAYS

CONSTANZO. IS UNRELIABLE,

OTHER 4

RESPONSIBLE, AND ADVENTURER WHO

EVERYDAY HAS A NEW PLAN .FOR

3.195

Classified by

Declassify on.

Thc)

MR. BELMONT FOR THE

DIRECTOR

11 JUN 17

1965

TED

DECLASSIE

6? 70N 28 1965

105-

86406

NOT

RECORDED

102 JUN 2271965

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outgide.the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

Daraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic 'system's.'

NW 45812 DocId: 32300194

Page 2

---

## Page 3

•ni

" (ROV: 2-14-61)

SECRAT

DECODED COPY

• AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

ORADIO XXTELETYPE

Tolson

Belmont

Moht -

De Loach

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen.

Sullivan

Tavel .

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

PAGE: TWO FROM MIAMI

110300

REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITY.

THINKS THIS EXPEDITION IS HIGHLY

UNLIKELY TO HAPPEN. CONSTANZO

AND HEMMING USE AN APPLICATION

FORM FOR RECRUITS TO COMPLETE.

OF THe THOUSANDS OF YOUNG

UNEMPLOYED CUBAN REFUGEES. IN MIAMI, RECRUITMENT IS EASY:

MESSAGE AND WILL DETERMINE LATER IF THEY WILL ACTIVELY

DEA CUSTOMS MEN NE LATER HAVE NOT RECEIVED RE CASE L

INVESTIGATE THIS MATTER.

MIAMI OFFICE IS MAINTAINING CONSTANT CONTACT WITH

AND

WILL KEEP THE BUREAU ADVISED. BUREAU IS REQUESTED. TO PRESENT THIS

MATTER TO DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE TO ASCERTAIN IF A JAM. NEUTRALITI

INVESTIGATION IS REQUESTED: MIAMI: WILL SUBMIT. THIS INFO IN MAYTE

FORM SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION LOCALLY. LUM FOLLOWING.

RECEIVED: 2:01 AM MLT

OTHER

4

OTHER 4

COMR. SULLIVAN

SECH

ED

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45812 DocId: 32300194 Page 3

---

