# docid-32330929

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90094-10019

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

CR 105-54536-70

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

43sass1nation Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

- TITLE :

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 04/19/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CAMILO CIENGFUEGOS GORRIARAN

JOAQUIN GODOY Y SOLIS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

•CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

AT -

v9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32330929

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev: 12-13-58)

FBI

Transmit the following in -

3-18

AIRTEL

: Via -

30% TA

AGSIFIED

SHOWH

- Deciassty ou:

CIA HAS NO OBVECTION TO

Date: 4-19-62

DECIE

RELDAtos

lin, plain text or code)

INi Titis DesageNT K 10-24-97

- REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing

——---

TO:

FROM:

LSUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

(105-54536)

SAC, MIAMI

(105-1236

CAMILO CLENFUBGOS GORRIARAN, aka

IS - CUBA

Copy to: CIA/State/RAO

ONI/OSI/ACSI

by routing ship for into.

Enclosed for the Bureau are ten copies of a letterhead

1 memorandum suitable for dissemination, and one copy each for

Cincinnati, New York, San Juan and Washington Field Offices.

It is to be noted that ANGEL ORLANDO BERISIARTU contacted

the Cincinnati Office before coming recently to Miami, and he

offered his services repeatedly to the U. S. Government.

On 2-7-62,

he voluntarily came to the Miami Office to repeat his offer of

cooperation.

He now resides with his wife at 1002 W. Palm Avenue,

Hialeah, Florida.

On 2-7-62, BERISIARTU advised that he was in the process

of planning a new organization to be known as the HEMISPHERIC

FREEDOM FUND to promote the fight against Communism in Cuba.

also advised that he had drawn up a military-political plan to

overthrow CASTRO which he desired to present to the United States

for consideration.

CIA, although he had made anti-CASTRO propaganda broadcasts from

a boat at sea near Miami while associated with MANOLO RAY and JOSE

MANUEL ESTEVEZ of the Movimiento Revolucionario del Pueblo in March

and April 1961. He claimed that this was done in cooperation with

CIAS at that time.

(on 4-10-62, Mr.

DUBOLS, CIA, Miami, advised that

BERISIARTU had at one time

in touch with someone in CIA

(41)

concerning an Mhe propagande

roadca ting plan, but that nothing

4-Bureau (3-105-54536) En

CO 10) (RM)

(1-105-104188)

5105-545312

1-Cincinnati (105-1936)

info. ) (Enc. 1) (RM)

L-San Juan (Info.

I-WFO ( Info.) (Enc. 1) (RM) -

KU APR 23 1902

2-Miami

(1-105-1236)

GED/aT

(1-134-745)

(10)

Approved:

82

Cuy se

I. SEC.

67 APR 30 1962pecial Agent in Charge il ..

THC)

COPY AND COPY OF ENCL FILED

NH 53074 DocId: 32330929

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-1236

SECRET

ever materialized so far as his records reflected.

DUBOIS

said he

possessed no derogatory information on BERISIARIU, who

had been a close friend of MANOLO RAX, whoris now in Puerto Rico).

1 400

n 3-0-62, BERISIARTU furnished a typed report ir

Spanish concerning

"THE HEMISPHERIC. FREEDOM FUND'

retating report entitled "ACTIVITIES IN THE CUBAN AFFAIR"

relating to his plan of action against CASTRO. Translations

have been made of both these reports, but neither is being

furnished the Bureau for dissemination in view of BERISIARTU'S

very questionable reliability.

on 4-12-62, after he refused to produce alleged

handwriting specimens of. CIENFUEGOS as promised by him, he

was asked by SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR., if he would be willing

to take a lie detector test. He answered in the negative,

stating that would be beneath his dignity.

Attention is directed to his failure to produce

evidence after offering to do so, and his unwillingness to

take a lie detector test.

Ever since

the disappearance of CIENFUEGOS in

October 1959, it has been presumed that he is dead. However,

the corpus delicti was never produced nor were any traces of

his companions and his plane ever found.

In view of BERISIARTU's alleged efforts to sell the

rights to this story of CIENFUEGOS to Time Magazine, it is felt

that representatives of that concern may contact the Bureau

for confirmation.

Copies of this communication are furnished Cincinnati,

New York, San Juan and the WFO for information purposes, but

Miami feels that BERISIARTU's allegations are undeserving of

further investigation in the absence of additional information.

Also, Miami is giving no further consideration to

the development of BERISIARTU as a PSI:

In the event the HEMISPHERIC FREEDOM FUND materializes,

this office will conduct appropriate inyestigation.

Translations

of the two reports furnished by BERISIARTU, described above, are

being retained by Miami in this case.

SEORE

2.

good-ticid

NW 53074 DocId: 32330929

Page 3

---

