# docid-32334281

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/30/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90113-10073

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-125065-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/17/1963

6

JACK WASSERMAN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32334281

12

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11°11-2017

they were in possession of information to the contrary, the

Department was of the opinion that ETIENNE LIPPAI is not

ineligible to receive a visa; however, nothing was noted in

the file to indicate that any action had been taken by either

the American

Embassy in Paris or the captioned subject.

DO NOT DISSEMINATE THE FOLLOWING.

It should be noted that INRe LIPSCHeR,

aka EMERY

LIPPAI, EMERICK LIPSCHER,

Washington, D.C., on 6/6/65.

United States on 4/27/63, aboard a Red Cross ship:

He

indicated he was in Washington to seek help in finding a

job. 10(351

It is noted that CORNE is reported to be active

Intelligence

work at the French

Embassy/d (5)

ABOVE IS NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED.

The information in instant letter is being

furnished to Pittsburgh so that it can distinguish irom

information it may acquire in connection with its investi-

gation of captioned subject's twin brother, IMRE.

LEADS

PITTSBURGH (INFORMATION)

Pittsburgh is being furnished one copy of this

letter

due to its interest in captioned subject's twin

brother, IMRE.

SAN JUAN

Interview ALTURO HANS LEUENBERGER for additional

information concerning captioned subject to determine if

the information from State Department relates to him and

whether the original data pertains to STEFANO Or IMRE LIPPAI.

Original source of information should be interviewed if

possible.

REQUEST OF THE BUREAU.

The Bureau is requested to have Legat Paris

determine whether captioned subject is presently residing

at Mont Cel Enger, Viels Maisons, Aisne, France,

DE HELEN JARROT, Or dE be is residing anywhere du Paris d(V)

CONFIDÉNTIAL

-5.

SECRET

CONFIDI

DocId: 32334281 Page 2

---

