# docid-32285745

## Page 1

Released under the John. F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2T07 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10194-10021

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1474

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/09/1964

2

SGI, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32285745

Page 1'

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

DATE : 11-14-2017

1992

Ü AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

• CABLEGRAM/

- RADIO

xx TELETYPE

144

-Use

Toison

Belmont -

Mohr

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

* Evans

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

2107

Hotey.

3:42 PM CST

DEFERRED 9-9-64 PAK/KOM

TO DIRECTOR AND MIAMI

Al!

/FROM CHICAGO 091830

Ant-reckolcaring

DATE 6/6184

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA, AR, DAILY SUMMARY.

P5K

¡GIANCANA DETERMINED TO HAVE PLAYED GOLF AT ROLLING HILLS

GOLE COURSE, FORT LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA, SEPTEMBER 4 AND 5 LAST. '

ON SEPTEMBER 5 LAST GIANCANA ACCOMPANIED BY TWO INDIVIDUALS

KNOWN ONLY AS JOHN (LNU) AND PETER (LNU). POSSIBILITY

EX+STS THERE PERSONS IDENTICAL TO TWO INDIVIDUALS IDENTIFIED

SEMILARLY BY HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE OF CHICAGO DIVISION AS

PERSONS-UNDER RALPH PIERCE WHO MIGHT BECOME "BOSS"' OF LOOP

AREA FOLLOWING DEMISE OF FRANK FERRARO. AS NOTED, SOURCE

STATED THAT IT IS ALMOST A CERTAINTY THAT RALPH PIERCE WILL

TAKE OVER OPERATION OF THIS AREA, BUT AS SOURCE POINTED OUT

"HE CAN NOT BE BOSS." IT WAS THEN POINTED OUT THAT THE NUMBER

TWO MAN COULD BE "THE BOSS" AT WHICH TIME THE NAMES JOHN AND

PETER WERE MENTIONED. 4

FOR INFO MIAMI DIVISION; CG 6533-C ADVISED GIANCANA

OBSERVED CHICAGO LATE AFTERNOON SEPTEMBER 8 LAST. U

HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ADVISED SEPTEMBER 9, INSTANT

THAT JOHN ROSELLI IN CHICAGO AREA AND MAKING ARRANGEMENTS TO

MEET WITH GIANCANA, U

REC- AU

5124-1474

4:54

PM IJH: SC

SEP 1019

RECEIVED:

229

56 SEP 171966 B

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32285745 Page 2

---

