# docid-32335434

## Page 1

Released under the John f. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 T14 USC SION LOSE

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/19/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90123-10100

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-8218-18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BELMONT

TO: LADD

TITLE:

• DATE: 08/22/1953

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

PAUL M. RAIGORODSKY

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

"CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

V9.1

DocId: 32335431 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 144 USC

DATE: 11-14-2017

101

Office Memorandum

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

Mr. Do ll. Ladd y.

AL'

DATE: AUgust 22, 1953

INED

Tolsoo

FROM : MT. A. H. Belmont

Ladd -

Nichola

Belmont

Clege -

Glavia

SUBJBCT:

PAUL MARK RAIGORODSKY

Harbo -

INFORMATION CONCERNING

Rosen _

Bu Pite 334-8218

Tracy-

Gearty -

SYNOPSIS: Declassity-on.

OAUR US

3/00/7

Paul Mark Raigorodsky believed to be the subject of inquiry.

Born August 25, 1898. in Russia and naturalized April 28, 1921.

Intered Inited States May 20, 1920. serued in russian and Unitea

States Armies: Attended Universities in Russia and Czechoslovakia

and graduated as civil engineer from University of Texas in 1924.

Trom 1929 to August, 1952, served as officer in Petroleum Engineer-

ing Incorporated. Glen Rose Gasoline Company and Claiborne Gasoline

all at Dallas

1943,

employed as Assistant Director,

From september 26, 1941, to July 12,

office of. Petroleum Co-ordinator

for War Natural Gas and Natural Gasoline, Washington, D. Co

Raigorodsky reported to be close personal friend lL sengter Lundan

CONTATNED

FIED EXCEPT

Johnson of Iexas. In July, 1941, Petroleum Engineering Incorporated,

Trading corporation for shipment to Russia.

Lunder European Recovery Program reflects all acquaintances consider

Chim Loual citizen.

He is described as a shrewd businessnan and wealthu?

haigorodsky married Ethel Margarite McCaleb in 1924.

Fin December, 1944.

They were divorced:

security investigation his former wife indicates:

IRMA

oshe was a communist Party member in Austen, Texas, during 1943 and 1941

Zwhile attending the University of Texas,

that she associated with

-Communists, contributed funds to the communist Party and supported

front groups:

Der CP activities,

During interview on August Ii, 1952, she admitted

contact with Nila

Raigorodsky

who is reported to

out the united states e am in hundreds of promisian anot

Robert Maidoterererted to be soviet agent.

Reason for contacts

not known but Nila Madideft en interview stated she met Raigorodsk

on speaking tour and that he is not pro-soviet.

During october,

Bufile 100-12262

5668 SUO GEE

PLC: 91g

0H6/15|98

RECORDED - 61

Brak

gou

25 SEP 23 1953

INDEXED - Da

90B0

1124-9218-

18

l1953,

3:58

DocId: 32

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under. the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records:

Colleation Act

-01. 1992 147 USC 210

DATE: 11-11-2017

GO

•November and December,

1943,

sharpe,, believed to be

Raigorodsky

@ British

in contact with Laurie

Brigadier General Juan Beigbeder Atienza,

agent seeking information on

spanish investzaation and

anti-Franco.

subject of an Espionage-

in subversive activities

'uindication sharpe engaged

RECOMMENDATION:

None.

DETAILS:

A check of the Bureau files indicates that the subject

of the inquiry is undoubtedly Paul Mark Raigorodsky who was last

reported residing in Dallas, Texas.

An investigation was con-

ducted on him under the European Recovery Program during August

and september,

1952.

At that time Raigorodsky listed his residence

as the Stoneleigh Hotel, Dallas, Texas.

Raigorodsky first came to

the attention of the Bureau on August. 22, 1940, in a complaint

received at san Antonio that he, by profession a consulting

petroleum engineer, was seeking to sell gasoline distilling equip-

ment to the Russian government and that an unidentified group of

people were meeting at his home in Kerruille,. Texas.

Export

License granted July 2, 1941, to the Amtorg Trading Corporation

to ship distillation equipment to Moscow to be exported by

Petroleum Engineering Incorporated, Tulsa, Oklahoma, through

Raigorodsky.

- 2-

DocId: 32335434 Page 3

---

