# docid-32177714

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10191-10096

RECORD SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-74-27

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LUNDOUIST. FRANCIS I.

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/14/1961

PAGES:

92

SUBJECT:

FPCC, REPORT, FIRST NATIONAL CONFERENCE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

09/24/1997

Redact

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 45212

DocId: 32177714

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CURTAI

ARTIAL

EPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

DATE

7/14/61

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/212- 7/10/61

REPORT MADE BY

FRANCIS I. LUNDQUIST

THE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA

COMMITTEE OF THE INSTITUTE

FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF INTER

AMERICAN RELATIONS, INC. aka

91.74*

CHARACTER OF CASE

1-5494

RA - CUBA

IS

-

CUBA

IS

-

IS

- SWP

TYPED BY

Labw

1-13-97

Dartasshy on

O4CR

JFIG

REFERENCE

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SL/GCL

ON. 19/97. ...

NY report of SA JOHN PRANEÓS CURRAN, 5/5/61 and

NY artel to Bureau, 7/7/61.

ALbINFORMATION CONTATHED

-P-

HERF!

#ASSIFIED

ADMINISTRATIVE

CINCINISE

Attached is a report concerning the FPCC First

National Conference, which reflects the present and past

affiliation of various FPCC delegates with the SW and CP.

In view of the influence of the SWP in this organization,

the character is now being set forth to include IS - SWP.

Due to the preparations relative to coverage of the

FPCC National Conference In NYC, as well as the handling of

Information in connection therewith, NYO has been delayed in

the preparation of the regular 60 day report on activities

of the national FPCC. Preparation of the regular report will

be initiated and a report submitted as expeditiously as possible.

IPPROVED

SPECH AGENT

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

9 - Bureau (97-4196)(RM)

1 - G-2, NYC (RM)

97

27

1 - ONI, NYC (RM)

1 - osI,

NYC (RM)

SERATE

2 - Baltimore (105-4441) (RM)

JUL'1 7 1961

- Boston (105-8539)(RM)

1

- Buffalo (Info) (RM)

FER - NEW ORLEANS

1 - New York (97-1792)

COPIES CONTINUED

- Disseminätion Record of Attached Roport

•gency

Request Recd.

Jate Fwd.

¡ow Fwd.

Зу

MTAN CONTAINED

-STATED

Notations

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDED

REASO

I SA-5/PT6Rt 4/21/50

FCIt.

DATE (

DECLASSIS

N11/81

282.

NW 45212 DocId: 32177714 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 97-1792

Independent Socialist Youth

and Independent Socialist Club

Philadelphia Young Socialist

Alliance

OTHER 4

Wisconsin Socialist Club

Chicago Committee To Defend

The Bill of Rights

Young Socialist Alliance

Student Council, FPCC

Former DE 698-S

Former PSI

PH 539-S

Former PSI

PH 286-S

MI 151-CS

c0 5365-5*

NY 711-S"

NY 2440-5*

NY 2434-5*

NY 711-S

LEADS

INFORMATION

Information copies of this report are being

designated for the following offices in view of past

interest these offices have had in activities of the FPCC

within their respective divisions:

Buffalo

Charlotte

Cincinnati

Indianapolis

Jacksonville

Little Rock

Milwaukee

New Orleans

Pittsburgh

Portland

St. Louis

San Juan

Miami

G

COVER PAGE

NW 45212 DocId:32177714 Page 3

---

