# docid-32270564

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER:

180-10140-10260

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

08-34-03

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

HSCA

FROM:

BLAKEY, G.ROBERT

TO :

CARPENTIER, PATRICK

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/22/1978

9

CIA, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: LETTER

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/25/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 2

v9.1

IF 53080

DocId: 32270564

Page 1

Date:

2/4/2016

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

{44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53080 Date:

05-30-2017

---

## Page 2

D'- UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

18

FROM:

1179/

EXTENSION •

DDO/ISS/IP/EIS

GA-10

DW-T TUBE

TO: (Officer designalion, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

1.

DDO/PIC

1D4127

Later Jay

4T-1

3

SECRET

NO.

DATE

OGC

Sent: 27 MAR 1978

Deadline:

OLC

COMMENTS (Number each comment 1o

show from whom

to whom.

. Drow a line across column after each comment.)

The OGC oL

OLC has requested

IP/EIS to check all relevant

DDO records for the necessary

information

concerning Subject.

7.

PRIORITY.

9.

10. IP/EIS

GA 10

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORMA

3-02

74 53080

( ) Subject of Previous Name Trace

I AdditIonal Comments

Subject of Current Name Trace

( ) No Records

Sec wadel

memorandum

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1093

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

610 USE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

OP 190

SECRET

7 CONFIDENTIAL

DooId: 32270564

Page 2

---

## Page 3

(202) 225-1523

Select Committee on Assassinations

u.5. Mouse of Ricpicsentatibes

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

MAR 2 21378

78-117.9

Mr. Patrick Carpentier

Office of the Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, DC. 20505

Dear MI. Carpentier:

In connection with its investigation into the circum-

stances surrounding the death of President Kennedy, the Select*

Committee on Assassinations requests access to all

files and

file references concerning or referring to the following

individuals:

1. Santiago Alvarez Rodriguez - Leader and spokes-

man of Comandos L.

2. Santiago Alvarez Fernandez, SI.

- Member of

Comandos Li group.. Member of Alpha 66, involved

in raids on Cuba.

3.

4.

Laureano Batista Falla - Leader of RASCO faction

of the Movimento Democratico Cristiano (MDC).

Associate of Alexander

Rorke, Jr. and Frank Sturgiss

Orlando Bosch Avila - Leader and founder of the

Movimento Insurrecional de Recuperacion Revolucio-

nario (MIRR). Charged with bombing of Cubana Air-

lines plane In 1976, found guilty, and presently

jailed in Venezuela.

Carlos Jose Bringuier - Date of birth: 6/22/34 in

.: Cuba. Arrived in U.S. 2/8/61. INS #A 12546223.

New Orleans delegate to DRE: testified before the

Warren Commission.

6. Rogelio Cisneros Diaz - Active member of JURE since

July 1961 through 1963.

7. Luis Conte Aguero - Formerly radio commentator in

Cuba for station CMP.

Became leader of Centinelas

de la Libertad in March 1963.

(This group absorbed

Frente Anticomunista Cristiano).

NH 53080 DocId: 32270564 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Marcos Diaz Lanz - Brother of Pedro Diaz Lanz:

9. Victor Paneque - aka Captain Diego. Military Leader of MIRR.

10.

Evelio Duque Miyar - Leader and founder of Ejercito

Cubano Anticomunista.

Also Military Commander of

this group.

Aka Comandante Luis; Luis Martin

Hernandez; Juis Martin.

6/23/63 - Issued "Notice of

Prevention of Departure" from Dage County.

Adaress

in 1963: 3144 NW 106th Street, Miami, Florida.

11. Tun Dunkin aka John Thomas Dunkin - Formerly news

photographer associated with Andrew St. George and

Robert K. BIOWN:

12.

William P. Dalzell aka Billy Littlehorse - Date: Of

birth: 12/1/26. FBI. #35 535 D. Last known addiess:

Iafayette Hotel, Room 318, 628 St. Charles Avenue, "":

Now Orleans, Iquisiana.

Associate of Guy Bannister;

member of Free Cuba Conmittee.

13.

Ross Crozier aka "Roger" - Ex-CIA agent in Miami

during the Bay of Pigs invasion.

control agent for

Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil.

14.

John Koch Gene - Date of birth: 5/29/40, Havana, Cuba.

Claims U.S. citizenship through such rights bestowed

on his grandfather who fought in the Spanish American

war.

Entered the U.S. June 16, 1961. Member: Revolu-

tionary Student Directorate (DREL.

15.

Miguel Marianö Cruz - Date of birth; ca. 1945.

Arrested on August 9, 1963 with Carlos Bringuier,

Celso Hernandez, Lee

Harvey Oswald for causing a

disturbance. Member of DRE.

16.

Hignio Diaz aka "Nino" - Military secretary, for Movi-

mento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by Manuel

Artime.

Survived an attempt on his life in mia 1976.

17. Frank: de la Barre - Secretary and attorney. of

Guatemala Lumber and Mineral Corporation of Louisiana.

• Nephew of Gus de la

tance. to Richard Rudolph Davis by obtaining property

used as a site for Cuban training camp.

18.

Eugene Davis - Presently owner of Hand's Bar in New

19.

Orleans.

Ramon Font Samuell - Chief of Operations of Comandos

I. Believed to be serving 30-year sentence for

Cuban revolutionary activities in Cuba.

NW 53080 DooId: 32270564 Page 4

---

## Page 5

• Carpentier

ze

20 ..

Joaquin Godoy y Solis - Member of Movimento Revolu-

cionario de Pueblo doing public relations work.

(MRP joined with Alpha 66 and SENE in 1963).

21.

22.

Max Gorman Gonzales - Member of Anti-Communist

International Brigade.

Associate of Frank Sturgis.

Manuel Gil - Address in 1963: 912 Ugamia Street,

New Orleans, Louisiana.

riember of the CRC.

Employed

in 1963 as Production Manager of the Information

Cauncil of the Americas.

23.

24.

25.

Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo - Member Of SNFE, which joined

with Antonio Veciana's Alpha 66 group in 1962.

Carlos Grimader - CPA from New Orleans for the CRC,

handled finances for Crusade to Free Cuba.

Address

in 1963: 1435 Lake Shore Drive, Metairie, Louisiana.

Augustine Guitart - Resident of New Orleans. Uncle

of Sylvia odio.

26.

Alberto Hernandez Hechovarria aka Alberto Fernandez -

Former boat captain on Tejana III. Associated with

Unidad

Revolucionaria.

27.

Celso Macario Hernandez - Arrested 8/9/63 with

Carlos Bringuier, Lee Harvey Oswald and Miguel

Mariano Cruz for disturbance in New Orleans.

28

William Johnson - Associate of Frank Sturgis. Soldier

of Fortune. Originally from Alexandria, Virginia.

29.

Claire Booth Luce - Date of birth: 1903 in New York

City.

United States House of Representati ves:

Connecticut 1943-1947. Ambassador to Italy 1953-1957.

30.

Max Lesnick - Associated with Segundo Frente Nacional

de Escambray as director for publication, "Republica"

out of Miami.

31.

Jose Antonio Lanusa - Provided information to FBI.

Member of DRE.

32.

Carlos John Wilson aka John wilson-Hudson, John mua-

•son, Wilson, Carl John Wilson Hudson - Date of birth:

12/21/16. Place of birth: Liverpook, England.

Refer

red to in FOIA Document #385-736: 150-59; 206-83; 233-94:

*33.

George Nobregas - liember of Agrupacion Montecristi as

technical advisor.

Involved in shelling of lavana

NW 53080 DooId: 32270564 Page 5

---

## Page 6

ack carpentier

JUI

34.

Joseph Newbrough - Associate of Guy Bannister.

Employed by private detective agency with William.

Dalzell and Jack Martin.

35.

36.

Rolando Otero - Accüsed and convicted of a Miami

airplane bombing in Miami in 1976.

icquitted of

eight other charges for bombings in liami in 1976.

Amador odio - Father of Sylvia odio. Imprisoned

in Cuba in 1962 and 1963.

37.

Joseph A. Oster - Former associate of Guy Bannister;

employed by Bannister for short period in 1950's.

Formed Southern Research Company, then Joseph A.

Oster & Associates operating out of New Orleans.

38.

Reinaldo Pico - Associate of Frank Sturgis.

Arrested

in 1972 for break-in of Democratic National Head-

quarters.

39.

Duney Perez Alamo - Anti-Castro Cuban exile with

Ejercito Libertado de Cuba, affiliated with JURE in

1963.

40.

Orest Pena - Owner of Havana Bar in lew Orleans.

Date of birth: 8/15/23. Testified before the Warren

Commission.

41.

Rolardo Peleaz aka Rolando Pelaez - Brother-in-law

of Carlos Bringuier and partner in Casa Rocca Clothing

Store at 107 Decatur Street, New Orleans In 1963.

42.

Acelo Pedroso Amores - Last known adaress, 1963:

Apartment 4, 103 N. W. 6th Avenue, Miami,

Florida.

Subject of FBI report from Miami, dated 8/8/63,

report of William Mayo Drew, JI., Field Office File

2-353.

One copy to CIA, Miami (RM). Associate 0f

_ John Koch Gene.

43. Luis Rabel aka Luis Ravel - CRC delegate in New Orlear

as of February 1962. Address in 1963: 4651 Marigny

Street, New Orleans.

44.

Carlos Rodriguez Quesada - Leader in Movimento Revolut

cionaria

30 de Novembre group (30th November).

Heade

faction called Movimento Revolucionario Frank Pais.

Joined group headed by DI. Paulino Sierra Martinez.

45.

Manolo Ray Rivero - Minister of Public Works under

castro regino.:

Became leader of MRP, then split from

group to foin TURE: Came to U.S. in November 1960.

NW 53080 DooId: 32270564 Page 6

---

## Page 7

trick Carpentier

Five

46. Francisco Rodriguez Tamayo aka "El Nexicano". -

Formerly with FAYÇO - Fuerzas Armades y Civiles

Anti-Comunistas.

Associated

with Eladio del

Valle Gutierrez.,

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

52.

53:

DI. Jose Ignacio Rasco Bermuda - Member of Movimento

Democratico Cristiano. One of the five original

leaders of Cuban groups organized by E. Howard Hunt

to fOrIn

the FRD.

Delphine Points Roberts

- Formerly secretary for

Guy Bannister.

Ran for City Council in 1962 in New

Orleans. Associated with National States Rights

Party, John Birch Society.

Arnesto Roariguez, SI. - Member of CRC is New Orleans,

Member of Crusade to Free Cuba Committee. Date of

birth: 8/15/91; came •to U.S. 1960.

Arnesto Rodriguez, JI. - Ment = of CRC in New Orleans,.

Member of Crusade to Pree Cui Committee.

authorized

to sign checks for CRC. Owft: Of Berlitz School of

Language in New Orleans.

Juan Manuel Salvat Roque - Ihrolved in propaganda and

military operations for DRE:

Paulino Sierra Martinez aka "Dr. Martinez" - Head of

Junta de Gobierno de Cuba en Exilio.

Formerly employed

with Union Tank Car Co., Chicago.

Believed to have

been backed by former Havana gambling interests.

Jorge Soto Martinez aka Jorge Antonio Martinez Soto;

"George Martinez" - Investigated in 1964 regarding

reports by employees

of the Parrot Jungle Park in

Miami that a Cuban visited

Parrot Jungle on 11/1/63

and made remarks

directed against President Kennedy.

54. Clay Shaw - Acquitted of charge of conspiracy to

assassinate the President in trial in New Orleans in

1969.

55..

Kerry Wendall Thornley - Date of birth: 4/19/38. 19811

Hillhaven, Tujunga, Ca. 91042. One book published:

The Idle Warrior.

56:

•Juan Antonio Varona - Member of Carlos. Blanco in house

group whose leader was Joaquin Sangenis:

Presently

has his own firm: Key Credit Company, 7530 NW 8th

Fined!

ward, Florida.

NW 53080 DooId: 32270564 Page 7

---

## Page 8

carpentier

57.

58.

Joaquin Villodas - Member of CRC in New Qrleans,

Louisiana in 1963. He was authorized to sign checks.

16th 90720,

Carlos Zarraga Martinez - Leader in Cuba Libre group.

Affiliated with JURE in 1963.

Address in 1$63: 2954

Terrace. Several members of INTERPEN arrested

there on June 19, 1963:

A cache of arms belonging to

zarraga was confiscated.

59.

Alpha 56 - Leading personalities: Antonio Carlos

Veciana Blanch, Miguel Fernandez Molina, Andies Nazari

Sargent, Rolando Vega. Founded early 1962 in Puerto

Rico.

60.

Corialidos I - Formerly known as Comandos I-66 an off-

shoot of Alpha 66. Date of origin: October, 1962, a

miami.

61. Segundo Fierite Nacional de Escambray - Leading

personalities: Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo. Founded in

1957.

62.

Cuban Revolutionary Council - Frente Revolucionario

Democratico - Formation of this unbrella

group haß,

as its purpuse, the representation of the entire spec

trum of political philosophy among the Cuban exiles,

from conservative to liberal.

63..

Anti-Communist International Brigade - Formed early

in 1961, circa January. Leading personality: Fxank

Sturgis.

• 64.

Interpen - Formed in 1961. Leading personality:

Gerald Patrick Henming.

65.

JURE - ("'Junta Revolucionaria") founded in 1963.

Leading personalities: Manolo Ray Rivero, Eugenio.

Cisneros Diaz.

Address: 1460 West Flagler Street, :

street:

Miami, Florida.

66..

Movimento Democratico Cristian - Organized in Cuba by

Jose Ignacio Rasco.

In September 1961, Fernandez

Badua, as the MDC delegate to CRC, became a key power.

67.

Drectorio Revolucionario Estudiantil - Composed of

student activists

who infiltrated Cuba in late 1960.

Leading personalities: Carlos Bringuier, Jose Antonio

Gonzalez Lanusa, Juan Manuel Salvat Rogue.

NW 53080 DooId: 32270564 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Patrick Carpentier

Page

seven:

1...

68.

69.

Movimento Insurreccional de Recuperacion Revolu-

cionaria - Set up as an independent group in June

1963:

Leading personalities:

Orlanão Bosch, Israel

Mesa Gonzales, Gervelio Gutierrez.

Movimento de Recuperacion Revolucionaria - Leading

personalities:

Manuel Artime Buesa, Ricardo Lorie,

Higinio Diaz.

Address: 1035 NW 10th Avenue, Miami,

Florida.

70.

Ejercito Libertador de Cuba - Connected with the MRP

prior to 1961 when it was founded. Leading personali-

ties:

Ernesto Betancourt, Jose Lopez Legon, Antonia.

Carvajal Estrada.

71.

Agrupacion Montecristi - Organized originally in

January 1960 when Justo Carillo came to U. S.

Known

members: Justo Masvidal, Mario A. Hirigoyen.

72. Cuba Libre - Founded in late 1960. Known members:

Carlos A. Zarraga Martinez, Humberto Solis Furado,

Carlos Hernandez.

73. JGCE ("'Junta de Gobierno de Cuba en el Exilio") -

Originated early 1960.

74. Comandos Autenticos - Leading personality: Carlos

•prio.

:..

75.:

Jack Rubenstein aka Jack Rubin - Rubin may have

owned some kind of establishment - bar, motel,

restaurant - in Hollandale, Florida and may have

been involved with the Textile Workers Union.

An

FBI Ieport lists a Jack Rubenstein as Vice President

of the Textile

Workers of America, 99 University Place,

Manhattan.

In addition, please identify, for purposes of interview

by members of Select Committee staff, any employees/agents/con-

tacts you had during the period of 1960 through 1964, whö were

providing to you results and/or reports of surveillance, in-

vestigation, and/or interviews of the activities and leaders

of the active Cuban anti-Castro groups in Miami

and New Orleans.

Also, please identify, for purposes of interview, any

employees/agents/contacts you had during the period of 1960

NW 53080 DooId: 32270564 Page 9

---

## Page 10

I. Patrick Carpentier

Page Eight

through 1964, who were providing to you results and/or reports

of the Newman

Building located at 544 Camp Street and 531

Lafayette Street in New Orleans. Two of the principal known

occupants during this period were the Cuban Revolutionary.

Council and Guy Bannister & Associates:

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerelÿ,

2. Robat Polis

•G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director•

GRB : jhd

11

74 53080

DooId: 32270564 Page 10

---

