# docid-32306661

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10290-10301

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 62-9-12-729

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/03/1967

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

JFC, TRA, REL, LCN, CIP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

\ DocId: 32306661

Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

No 10g4-2017

199:

444-US0-2107

Hot e)

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. DeLoachi

FBI

Date:

4/3/67

Transmit the following in -

(Type in plaintext or code)

A IRTEL

Via

(Priority)

Mr. Felt-

Mr. Gole

1 Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullig

Mr. Tavel

MIr. Trotter.

Tele. Room -

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

FROM:

BAC, DALLAS (92-826-SUB)

SUBJECT:

OCRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Remyairtel dated 3/27/67.

RE: ROSARIO MUSSO aka

AR

(DL 92-195)

PROGRAM

TeX! 3/28/67, and were met at the airport, love Field, by

Subject and wife returned to Dallas at 6:30 PM,

JOSEPH FRANCIS. CIVELLO, brother-in-law of subject. CIVELLO

is alleged boss of LCN, Dallas. Los Angeles Office had

covered MUSSO's departure from Los Angeles.

RE: EDDY TOMYGREEN aka

ITAR - GABLING

ARKANSAS

(DL 166-234)

DL 279-C advised on 3/27/67, of trip to Hot

Springs,

Arkansas, where CI saw number of Dallas gamblers

and spent some time there with GREEN. CI stated GREEN

TexAS.

had gone to Hot Springs after call received from GLENN EARNEST

XBURNETT, Dallas gambler, who was already in Hot Springs, APKANSAS

asking GREEN to come.

CI stated Dallas gamblers mostly

played at the racetracks and frequented the night spots and

GREEN apparently had no other purpose in going to Hot Springs

other than

to attend the races and be with BURNETT and others.

CI furnished some information to Senior Resident

Agent at Hot Springs as to where several gamblers were staying

62-9-12-

729

Bureau /@DAD

Dallas

HJE : rmb

(5)

C-9

C. G. MICH

651962

Арів,

Sent

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32306661 Page 2

---

