# docid-32295255

## Page 1

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10215-10031

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/07/1958

7

ABR, RCK, ASSOC, P/P, RES, EMP, THP, INCOME TAX, PDT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

02/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32295255

Page 1

107

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. 'Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 'USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 14-14-2017

TO:

SUBJECT!

OFFICE MEMO

NDUM

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2717)5

SAC, PHILADELPHIA (92-1244)

ANCETO

BRUNO, waS:

AR

UNITED STATES GOV. ENT

- DATE:

MAR 7 1958

0..

Rerep of SA ROBERI M. CRANT at Philadelphia dated MAR

7 1958

REFERENCES

Report of SA ROBERI M. GRANT dated 12/26/57 at Philadelphia.

Newark airtel to Philadelphia 1/31/58

Philadelphia airtel to Miami 1/31/58.

Miani airtel to Philadelphia 1/30/58•

Philadelphia airtel to Miami 2/13/58 entitled "GITT, Criminal

Rackets Activities, Philadelphia and Miamá Divisions."

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

T-symbols were used in this report because the informants

requested their identities be concealed.

Record checks

at. Harrisburg, Pa., mate made by IC FRANK D.

ALTOBELLI,

The surveillance of 1/22/58 was conductod by SAs BEN PERKOWSKI, Jes

and HARRY He, PLUMER:

The Agont who observed the Mo. Maggio Company automobile at

the Bruno résidence on 1/16/58 was SA ROBERT M. GRANT.

¿ lead has been restated to intorview PH-489-C. This informant

has, until

• recently, beon in jail.

He will be recontacted as soon as

possiblee

COPIES DESTROYED 1

Bureau (92-2717) (Encls - 2)

Miami (92-139) (Encls 2)

New York (Encls - 2) (92-739)

Newark (92-478)(Encls

2)

* Philadelphia (92-4145

+6872-2717-11

12 MAR 10 1958

RMG smehr

(11)

Ex 136

0 8 MAY 28195897

EX-136

DocId: 32295255 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 92-1144

LEADS

MIAVI:

AT MIAVI BEACH, FLA:

Will attompt to obtain any handwriting specimons of purchasers

of the lake surprise property listed as boing owned by ABRAHAM BRUNO

so that it can bo compared with the known handwriting of the subject.

'2'o

will icontify ROBERT R. GAFFINAL curront onor of property at

320-84th stroots

will idontify the 975 Corporation, as sot out in this report as

well as the officers, incorporators, otco, since it is possiblo that this

is a front company for the subject.

Will dotormino if subjoct is currontly staying at the Golden Nuggot

Motel or Apartment 8, 320-8uth Stroet.

AT MIAMI, FLA

Will attompt to identify person referred to by PH 269-0 as

"Senator MORPIS as set out in reairtel and in this reports.

20:

Will consider attampt to determine porson with enough political

influence in Dado County, Fla., to swing contomplatod trash deal and

compare his description with that furnished by PH 269-0.

Will contact logical informants concerning their knowlodge of

the contemplated Irash Collection set up in Dade County, Fla.

4•

Whon questioning CI's ascertain if they have any knowledge of

subject being in Miami Area, when ho was there, who was with him and the

nature of his business while there.

will attempt to identify any businesses that subjoct is connected

with in the Miami Area-

DocId: 32295255 Page 3

---

## Page 4

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 92-Lilil

LEADS (CONTINUED)

PHILADELPHIA (CONTINUED)

AT PHILADELPHIA, PA. (CONTINUED)

Will during the course of the investigation attempt to obtain

handwriting specimens of the subject.

23°

Will report results of trash cover on subject's residence,

934 Snyder Avenue.

24°

Will check with the following Philadelphia Confidential Informants

for any information or additional information that they might be able to

furish concerning the subject; PH 251-0, PH 269-0, PH 467-C, PH 468-C.

-;

PH 23-6, H

25€

Will also request a check with any logical Potential Criminal

Informants who might be in a position to furnish information on the subject,

**:

26.

* Will interview Detective Sergeant RAYMOND MURPHY, Philadelphia

Police Department, concerning his knowledge of the current and past

activities and associates of BRUNO.

27°

*Will contact PH 489-0 regarding the: 4100,000 that' he i

said he owed BRUNO as a result of his losses in the numbers business.

28.: * Will examine the income tax records of ANGELO BRUNO currently

being obtained by the Bureau and report the pertinent information contained

therein.

29.

swili identify Attorney GARFIELD LEVY.

30.

Will contact Post Office Substation covering the subject's address

to determine if his mail is being delivered these of if it is being forwarded.

31÷

Will, through other investigation being conducted, determine

the current activities of MARIO MAGGIO, son of Philadelphia Top Hoodlum

MICHAEI MAGGIO. There is no indication that he is in the rackets;

ipiei...

Will consider interviewing RICHARDSON DILWORTH, Mayor of.

Philadelphia, regarding his statement that three Philadelphia Magistrates

were allied with BRUNO, in 195ti, one iof whom was Magistrate JOSEPH J.

MOLINARI, convicted on January 16, 1954 of Subornation of perjury.

÷ 6 -

DocId: 32295255

Page 4

---

