# docid-32307619

## Page 1

Released mider the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act ôf 1992 741 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/17/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10292-10322

HQ

64-29479-1ST NR 11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/06/1970

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

MTP, EMP, REL, TRA, ARREST, LHO, VISIT, CUBAN

EMBASSY, MX

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/20/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32307619

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC

2707 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MAY 1040110N

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

D 5Y5668510/504

(JFKS)

Memorandum

ON 9/1/95.

11/8/70

TO

DATE:

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (105-3702)

(RUC)

DECL

1 AND/OR

FROM :

PELE

ALI INFORUNTTON CONTAINED

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

HERBUM *

LASSIFIED

IN THIS DU

/SUBJECT: IS - # - CUBA

EXCEPT NOSE

I SHOWN

70H 5/10/93

OTHERWISE

Reference Mexico City letter 10/14/83 in OSWAL case;

Mexico

City letter 7/30/58 and Havana letter 8/45/50 entitled,

TERESA®PROANZA; SM - C;" and Mexico City letter anc

entitled, "JORGE" LUIS ROJAS MANDOZA; IS - CUA" (Bufile 105-115365) .

APROENZA®

PROENZA's full name appears

to be wante

"PROENZA?

TERESA.

She is currently said to be in navana, Cuba,

after spending several years in Janta Clara Province under

house arrest.

She now appears to have more freedom.

She is the sister of the wife of JORGE LUIS ROJAS MENDOZA,

a Mexican employee of the Cuban Aviation Company in Mexico City.

Fer brother ALVARO ESTANISLAO PROENZA PROENZA reSideS in

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and is the subject of an IS - CUBA

investigation.

TERESA PROENZA was the secretary of the Mexican

communist muralist DIEGO RIVERA prior to the revolution.

She

became an employee of the Cuban Embassy in Mezico City follow-

ing the revolution. She was described by her brother ALVARO

in 1965 as a "dedicated communist" and a "slave of the Cuban

communist government."

The following information is extracted from the letter

and LAM submitted by Mexico City on 10/5/70 concerning JORGE

LUIS ROJAS MENDOZA and the efforts of his family to arrange

for his sister MARGOT ROJAS MENDOZA to leave Cuba and join the

family in Mexico:

According to information furnished by max 197 on

TR(U)

9/21/70, the ROJAS family has

become very embittered about

Cuba situation and Mrs. ROJAS, whose full name is CARIDAD

9/1/93

6-Bureau

Classifi

MELUS-1S0144) CALVARC PRUINGS ENOUNCA

(1-64-29479) (TERESA PROENZA"

Declassi

(1-Foreign Liaison Desk)

(1-Philadelphia) (105-11156) (ALVARC PROENZA PROENZA) (Info)

3-Mexico City

(1-100-1834) (TERESA PROENZA PROENZA)

(-125-0-1047) COLVARO FEETA PROZA 14 - 3947

RECORDED

RI: kvw

180ND: 20 19/6

Chi

ORIGINAL FILED IN

CONFIDENTIAN iN

6

DocId: 32907619

₽ 71970

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 105-3702

CONFIDENTIAI

"CACHITA" PROENZA PROENZA DE ROJAS, complained that Cuba has

acome a police state and that cuban authorities nave te

family "all tied up."

ROJAS and his wife told MeX 197 aa

a Cuban communist named JUAN MARINE is a friend of the family.

On one trip to Cuba, CACHITA ROJAS asked him to look into the

situation of her sister TERESA PROENZA to see how it could

be straightened out.

MARINE recently visited Mexico "incognito"

and informed the ROJAS that the situation now is extraordinarily

good but that TERESA was once under a death sentence because

she had dealt with LEE HARVEY OSWALD while assigned to the

Cuban Embassy prior to the assassination of JOIN F, KENNEDY.

Her friends interceded for her and her life was spared. ROJAS

told MEX 197lthat MARINE warned them not to tell the Cuban

Embassy in Mexico City that he had spoken to them about this

matter.

The source stated that JORGE ROJAS and his wife

do not know how to cope with the present situation.

They

fear going to Cuba and they are speaking out against the Cuban

revolution in a most forthright manner.

The bitterness dis-

played by ROJAS! wife

far exceeds any

that the source

can recall in the past.

The source stated that some years ago, as best he

could recall, he heard JUANA LUISA PROENZA, a sister of CACHITA

who died some years ago, telling a similar story of how TERESA

PROENZA was somehow involved with LEE HARVEY OSWALD at the

Cuban

Embassy. At the time TERESA was employed at the embassy,

she lived with JUANA LUISA and another sister. Within the

family it has always been said that JUANA LUISA worried herself

to death after TERESA was ordered to Cuba.

The Mexico City Office has conducted a review of

references to TERESA PROENZA

especially those dealing with

the

OSWALD investigation and it is noted that as set forth in

mation in the past, reported on 1/13/04 that they had conversed

with ELIZABETH CATLETT MORA, Bufile 100-395934, who told them

of a conversation she held with TERESA PROENZA, the Cultural

Attache of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

According to

MORA, TERESA PROENZA had told her that OSWALD walked in "cold"

to the Cuban Imbassy and the first person he talked to was

PROENZA. Since PROENZA did not speak Inglish, she turned him

2

CONEDENTIA!

DocId: 32307619 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 105-3702

CONFIOINTIAL

Thile it is not clear from avallable information,

it would appear that PROTNZA was able to return irom cuba

for a visit to Mexico following her dismissal and departure

in 1/64.

By report dated 1/14/65 the CIA reported on the in-

vestigation by the Cuban government of old line communist

JCAGUIN ORIOZUI MASA. In this report it was indicated that

TERESA PRODNEA had been arrested at her home and was being

he been eyes tod

held inconmunicado.

A review of the foregoing material indicates that

TURESA PROENZA got into trouble with the Cuban government more

as a result of her criticism of the handling of the OSWAL

matter following the assassination of President KENNEDY than

because of anything she did when OSWALD visited the Cuban

Embassy.

Fer harsh criticism of high Cuban officials (the

Ambassador and foreign Minister) was apparently well known

in the embassy and hardly helped her case.

It fails to

indicate that she did anything for CSWALD

that would supstantiat

he remarks made by JORGE ROJAS and his wife to MeX 197(ch%

TERESA PROENZA had nearly been ezecuted because of her activities

during OSWALD's visit to the Cuban Unbassy in 1963. In the

absence of additional information regarding this activity, no

further investigation is contemplated at this time.

it is

noted that it is not feasible to directly interrogate soned

ROJAS or his wife.

However, Max 197 kill closely follow this

matter with then and any anditional, significant developments

will be called promptly to the attention of the Bureau.

One information copy is being furnished to Philadelphia

the not anti re on To that the one ning to KAu

the ROJAS family in Mexico City and CAChltA remarked that

ALVARO said he was surrounded by "gusanos" (referring to

Cuban exiles

in a derogatory nanner) in Philadelphia.

CONFSENTIAL

DocId: 32307619 Page 4

---

