# docid-32326275

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90044-10124

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 122-3019-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: LA

TITLE:

DATE: 01/18/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

FRANK MATULA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RADIOGRAM

v9.1

HH 45864

3

DocId: 32326275

Page 1

---

## Page 2

•22

1/18/62

CODE

RADIOGRAM

URGENT (HOLD FOR NEXT RADIO CONTACT)

TO. SAC, LOS ANGELES (128-216)

FROM DRECTOR, 8B (123-3018) - 7

MIKE BARABEDIAN; FRANK MATULA, JR.; ET AL.; LIRA DASH IN. REURAD

JANUARY SEVENTEEN LAST. REDISCUSS WITH AUSA HIS REQUEST fOR OPEN

CONTACT WITH MATULA TO GAIN ACCESS TO RECORDS OF TEAMSTERS LOCAL.

POINT OUT SUCH CONTACT WOULD REVEAL GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN THESE

RECORDS AND IF MATULA REFUSES THERE WOULD BE STRONG POSSIBILITY

RECORDS COULD BE MANIPULATED. SUBSEQUENT ACCESS TO SUCH RECORDS

BY SUBPOENA COULD PROVE INEFFECTIVE. ASCERTAIN IF AUSA MAY

DESIRE TO ISSUE SUBPOENA FOR RECORDS IN FIRST INSTANCE ON BASIS

OF AVAILABLE INFORMATION. IN EVENT AUSA STILL DESIRES ATTENT

TO OBTAIN RECORDS BY OPEN CONTACT WITH MATULA, DISCUSS FEASIBILITY

OF YOUR OFFICE FIRST CONDUCTING PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION AMONG

DISPOSAL OPERATORS AND OTHER SOURCES TO OBTAIN MORE CONCRETE

INFORMATION TO BE UTILIZED IN REVIEW OF UNION RECORDS. SURAD

RESULTS OF YOUR DISCUSSION WITH AUSA AND RECOMMENDATIONS YOUR

_OFFICE.

DJG: eem

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach.

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

NOTE: Radio contacts with Los Angeles at 1:00 and

5:00 P.M.

Investigation in this case was based on

information obtained from

VIA RADIOGRAM

JAN 18 1962

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE TWO

.i.!

2:02 PM pu TV

MTELETYRE.UNIT

JAN 25

19621

NW 45864 DocId:32326275 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

RADIOGRAM TO SAC, LA

MIKE HARABEDIAN; FRANK MATULA, JR; ET AL.

122-3019

NOTE: (CONTINUED FROM PAGE ONE)

former official of Teamsters Local 208, Los Angeles, that

Matula and John Dorbish, officials of Local 396, were

making collections from

various employers and not reporting

proceeds to local.

Harabedian, one of the employers involved,

allegedly does not have a contract with the local.

alleged that records of the local would not show receipt

of payments

from the

• various

employers.

qui

OTHER 4

85-1 8.1952et

Bis seni in

- 2 -

HW

45864 DocId: 32326275 Page 3

---

