# docid-32989831

## Page 1

File #:

66-5D-1112

Serial Scope:

1,2

4 the b

DO NOT

DESTROY

FOIPA# N/A

NW 15265-10010-32383635 Page

---

## Page 2

NRA46, WA COUS

8: 20PM NITEL 3+24-75 DEB

TO ALL SACS

PRO OT RECTOR

SMATE SELECT COMMITIEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SEVATOR FRANK CHURCH, CHAIRMAN OF THE SENATE SELECI

COMMITISE TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL, OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO

INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES HAS MADE AN INITIAL ROQUEST FOR INFORMATION

PROM THE FBI. CAMONG THE ITEMS REQUESTED IS A BREAKDOWN OF

FIELO AGENT PERSONVEL ASSIGNEO TO INTERRAL SECURITY AND

COUNTERIVTELLIGENCE MATTERS •

ACCORDINGLY, VITHIN FOUR RIGHT HOURS

EACH SAC SHOULS SUIEL

TO FBIMO, ATTENTION: BUDGEI AND ACCOUNDING SECTION, SETTING FORTH

SPARATELY TiE NUMBER OF SAGS, ASAOS, SUPERVISORS AND AGNIS ASSIGUEU

TO INTERNAL SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS PERCENIAGES

: DF AN AGENI'S TIME, WHEN NOI ASSIGNED FULL-TIME TO THESE ACTIVITIES,

• SIOULD BE USED IF APPROPRIAIE, PARTICULARLY IN IRE SUPERVISORY

CATEGORIES. THIS INFORMATION SHOULS BE BROKEN DON SEPARATELY

BEIDERN INTERVAL SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE:

YOUR RESPONSE SHRU

SE LIMITED-TO AGENT PERSÓNNEL ONLY:

ENO:

RAi FBI SO CL

Dbe

66÷47.112-81

SEARCH

SERIALIZE

ASAC

HI = SAN GIEGO

NW 55265 /DocId: 32989831

Page-2

---

## Page 3

i&0 CoDED

A .iMNC1 26, 1975. NITEL GDF

in:

DIRECIOR, FBI 12 Ampii

SAN DIEGO (66-NEW)

AIT:: BUDGET AID ACCOUNIING SECTIONI

CE SELECT COMMITIEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

REDUIEL TO ALL SAC'S,

MARCH 24, 1975.,

THE FOLLOWING REPRESENTS SUPERVISORY AND AGENT TIME DEVOTED

/: INTERVAL SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS IN THE SAN

DIEGO DIVISION:

SIC - SIS PERCENT OF TIME ON INTÉRNAL SECURITY AND EXTREMISI

INTIERS; IWO PERCENT ON COUNTERINIELLIGENCE MATTERS.

-iSHC - SIX PERCENT ON INTERNAL SECURITY AND EXTREMIST MATTERS;

WU PERCEIT ON COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS.

QUE SUPERVISOR - 40 PERCENT OF TIME ON INTERNAL SECURITY MATTERS;

49 PERCENT' ON COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS.

ONE SUPERVISOR - 20 PERCENT OF TIME ON EXTREMIST MATTERS.

SEVEN AGENIS - EACH 100 PERCENT ON COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MAITERS.

TEN AGENTS - EACH 100 PERCENT OF TIME ON INTERNAL SECURITY

"ATTERS.

FOUR AGENTS - EACH INÙ PERCENT OF TIME ON EXTREMIST MATTERS.

LID

beatin

3185

AC 6/18,

NW 55265 DocId: 32989831 Page 3

66

Dead

66-1712-22

SEARCHED

... INDEXED

SERIALIZED A FILED.

---

## Page 4

Mr. Church's Cover-Up

By William Safire

WASHINGON, Nov. 19—On Oct. 10,

1963, the then-Attorney General of the

United States put his personal signa-

ture on a document that launched and

legitimatized one

of the most horren-

dous abuses of Federal police power in

this century.

In Senator Frank Church's subcom-

mittee hearing room this week,

the

authorized wiretapping

and

subse-

quent unauthorized

bugging and at-

tempted blackmailing of Martin Luther

King

Jr. is being gingerly examined,

with the "investigation" conducted in

such a way as not to unduly em-

barrass officials of the Kennedy or

Johnson Administrations.

With great care, the committee has

focused on the F.B.I. Yesterday, when?

the committee counsel first set forth

the result of shuffling through press

clips, it seemed as if no Justice De-"

partment had existed in 1962; today,

an F.B.I. witness pointed out that it

was Robert Kennedy who authorized

the wiretap of Dr. King, and that "the

President of the United States and the

Attorney General specifically discussed

their concern of Communist influence

with Dr. King."

But the Church committee showed

no zest for getting further to the Ken-

nedy root of this precedent to Water-

gate eavesdropping. if Senator Church

were willing to let the chips fall where

they may, he would call some knowl-

edgeable witnesses into the glare of

the camera lights and ask them some

questions that have gone unasked for

thirteen years.

For example, he could call Nicholas

Katzenbach,

Attorney General

Ken-

nedy's deputy and successor, and ask

what he knows of the Kennedy de-

cision to wivetap Dr. King. Who at

Justice concurred in the recommenda-

tion? How does the F.B.I. know the 1

President was consulted or informed?

Alter Mr. Katzenbach assumed of-

fice, and the wiretapping

continued.

he was told by angry newsmen that

the F.B.I. was leaking scurrilous in-

formation about Dr. King. Why did he

wait for four months, and for a thou-

sand telephonic interceptions, to dis-

continue the officially approved tap?

Of course, this sort of

testimony

would erode Senator Church's political

base, That is why we do not see for-

mer Assistant F.B.I. director Cartha

(Deke) Deloach,

Lyncion

Johnson's

personal contact with the F.B.I. in the

witness chair.

What did President

Johnson know about the character-

assassination

pint and when did

he

know

it? What conversations took

place between Mi. Deloach and Fits+-

dent Johnson or the tapping of Dr.

King, or about the use of the F.B.I. in

any other intrusions into the lives of

PAW S528yrsDocId: 32989831

are readily available. A

weeks age, at an open hearing, an

F.B.I. man inadvertently started to

blurt out an episode about newsmen

who were weritapping in

1962 with

he apparent knowleage of Attornes

General Kennedy. The too-willing wit!

would be developed only in executive

session. Nobody raised an eyebrow.

That pattern of containment by the

Church committee is vividly shown by

the handling of the buggings at the

1964 Republican and Democratic con-

ESSAY

ventions which were ordered by Lyn-

don Johnson. Such invasions of politi-

cal headquarters were worse than the

crime committed at Watergate, since

they involved the use

of the 'F.B.I.,

but the Church investigators seem to

be determined not to probe too deeply.

If F.B.I. documents say that reports

were made to specific Johnson aides,

why are those men not given the

same opportunity to publicly tell their

story so avidly given the next Presi-

dent's men? If Lyndon Johnson com-

mitted this impeachable high crime of

ward to tell us all about it?

But that would cause embarrass-

ment to Democrats,

and

Senator

Church wants to embarrass profes-

sional employees of investigatory

agencies only. A new sense of Con-

gressional decorum exists, far from

the sense of outrage expressed in the

Senate Watergate

ing room. When it is revealed that the

management of NBC News gave press

credentials to L.B.J.'s spies at the 1964

convention, everybody blushes demure-

y-and nobody demands to know

which network executive made what

decision under what pressure.

I have been haranguing

readers for years about

the

patient®

double

standard applied

to Democratic and'

Republican political crimes,

and had

hoped the day would come when the

hardball precedents set by the Ken-

nedy and Johnson men would be laid

before the public in damning detail.

Obviously, Democrat Frank Church

is not the

man to do it. His. jowl-

shaking indignation is ald 100

she the train of high-teve rossense-

bility for the crimes committed against

Dr. King and others is evidently going

to be allowed to coo!.

Pily. You'd think thai after all the

nation has been through in

the past

tew yoars, our political leaders would

have learned that the one thing thai

brings you down is the act of cover-

SEARCHED CAT

SENALZED

FILED

NDAY 2 1 1975

FBI SAN DECO

THE NEW YORK TIMES

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20th, 1975

PAGE C-41

---

## Page 5

Routing Slip

0-7 (Rov. 12-17-73)

TO: SAC:

L Albany

Albuquerque

Alexandria

Anchorage

Atlanta

Baltimore

Birmingham

Boston

Buffalo

Butte

Charlotte

Chicago

Cincinnati

Cleveland

Columbia

Dallas

Denver

Detroit

El Paso

Honolulu

(Copies to

Of

Jiouston

Indianapolis

Jack son

Jacksonville

Kansas City

Knoxville

Las Vegas

Little Rock

Los Angeles

Louisville

Memphis

Miami

Milwaukee

Minneapolis

Mobile

Newark

New Haven

New Orleans

Now York City

] Norfolk

= Checked)

Oklahoma City

Omaha

Philadelphia

Phoonix

Pittsburgh

Portland

Richmond

Sacramento

St. Louis

Salt Lake City

San Antonio

San Diego

San Francisco

San Juan

Savannah

Springield

Tomp a

Washington Fick

Quantico

Date

RE: SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

66-1712*

TO LEGAT:

Beirut

Bern

Bonn

Brasilia

Buenos Aires

Caracas

Hong Kong

london

Madrid

Manila

Mexico City

Oltawa

Paris

Rome

Singapore

Tel Aviv

Tokyo

11/21/75

-

Retention

For appropriate

• For information → optional i

I action

[ Surep, by

- L

/ The enclosed is for your information. If used in a future report, J conceal all

sources, E paraphrase contents.

Enclosed are corrected pages from report of SA.

daled

Remarks:

Enclosed for your information is a copy of

an article by Mr. William Safire entitled "Mr.

Church's Cover-Up" that appeared in the

November 20, 1975,

1s5ug of "re New York Times.'

X/:

Enc. (1)

Bufile

Urfile

NN 55265 DacId: 32539831 EagENg

---

## Page 6

FORMS. TEXT HAS 1 DOCUMENT

INBOX.1 (#920)

TEXT:

VZCZCHQ0052

00 ASO

DE HQ #0052 3510053

ZNR UUUUU

12/17/86

620mm

0 172325Z DEC 86

EM DIRECTOR, FBI

TO ALL FBI FIELD OFFICES

ALL LEGAL ATTACHES

BT

UNCLAS

or 46-1717

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE.

THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE SENT A LETTER

TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL WHICH READS IN PERTINENT PART AS

FOLLOWS: "TO ASSIST IT IN ITS CURRENT INVESTIGATION, THE

COMMITTEE REQUIRES THE DOCUMENTS DESCRIBED BELOW:

"_- ANY AND ALL MATERIAL WHICH ARE IN POSSESSION OF THE

DEPARTMENT, AS A RESULT OF PREVIOUS INVESTIGATIONS OR OTHER

WHICH RELATE TO FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS INVOLVING

ACTIVITIES,

ALBERT

HAKIM WHICH INCLUDE USE OF BANK ACCOUNTS IN

SWITZERLAND

(2 208-58-2219-3111

"_- ANY AND ALL MATERIALS WHICH ARE IN POSSESSION

163C-18278

220B-5-108

OF THE

66-1717-5

1.200

SEARENSO MANUALS A

Lose 1

SEARCHED PErva nega

Tulin

Super.

10-209122

Aüstinia

NW 55265 DocId: 32989831 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PAGE TWO DE HQ 0052 UNCLAS

DEPARTMENT, AS A RESULT OF PREVIOUS INVESTIGATIONS OR OTHER

ACTIVITIES, WHICH RELATE TO

TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING RICHARD V.

SECORD IN WHICH IT

IS BELIEVED THAT ILLEGAL PROFITS MIGHT HAVE

BEEN MADE DUE TO THE SALE OR DELIVERY OF U. S. ARMS.

MUNITIONS, OR MILITARY OR DUAL-USE EQUIPMENT OR SERVICES

TO

FOREIGN NATIONS, GROUPS, ORGANIZATIONS OR INDIVIDUALS. "

ALL OFFICES AND LEGATS IMMEDIATELY REVIEW THOROUGHLY AT

FILES AND THEREAFTER MAKE PHOTOCOPIES OF ALL DOCUMENTS

RESPONSIVE TO THE COMMITTEE'S REQUEST.

SEND THESE PHOTOCOPIES

TO FBIHO, ATTENTION DENNIS MILLER, ROOM 5129. THIS REQUEST

SHOULD RECEIVE TOP PRIORITY. A PROMPT AND THOROUGH RESPONSE

'IS ANTICIPATED.

BT

#0052

ascarata

NNNN

NW 55265

DocId: 32989831

Page 7

---

## Page 8

FD-36 (Rev. 8-26-82)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

• Facsimile

0 _AIRTEL

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate*

• Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

• SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

• UNCLAS E F T O

• UNCLAS

Date

12/19/86

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

ATTN: DENNIS MILLER, ROOM 5129

FROM:

SAC, SAN DIEGO (66-1712)

SUBJECT: SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE

Re Bureau teletype 12/17/86.

Enclosed

for the

Bureau

following San Diego file serials:

SD 58-781

serials

1 and 2

SD 220B-5

serials

1 thru 10

SD 221A-3

serials

11, 13, 14

SD 163C-1827 serials

1 thru 10

are photocopies

of the

These serials are

• all information contained in San

. Diego files regarding ALBERT HAKIM and RICHARD V. SECORD.

2 - Bureau (enc. 25)

I- San Diego

CA/bsobsc

(3)

CLASSIFIED MATERIAL ATTACHED

Approved:

Transmitted

(Number)

66 - 16712-0

(Time)

SEARCHIRO

NW 55265 Docid: 32989831 Page 8

---

