# docid-32177782

## Page 1

Redeased undertbe The kennedy Assascination Records Collection Act of 1992

mf1d USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

IDENTHCATIOX FORN

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10193-10030

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 202-8517-8

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/03/1990

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: LHO, CUBAN, GOVERNMENT, GRANTED, VISA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

11/06/1998

Redact

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

:

DocId: 32177782 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 7-

Note) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 8-29-85)

TRANSMIT VIA:

Teletype

Facsimile

AIRTEL

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

'• Immediate

Priority

Routine.

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

• SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLAS EFT O

UNCLAS

Date 10/3/90

WINERNISE

N CH

THERE SNOWE

AND INFORMATION CONTAYNED

1

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

ATIN: INTD, [CI-2DJCAYU)

IROM: SAC, MIAM (2020-6743) (FCI-110)

4

SUBJECT:

ALFREDO MIRABAL-ALVAREZ;

5

ECI - CUBA (EMIGRE') (S)

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

Classif/s by es kme ka

Declassify on. olDe (5FK)

The entere contents of this communication are

classified "SECRET" unless otherwise noted.

Preliminary investigation initiated June 29, 1988,

current extension to expire November 18, 1990.(5

Reference Bureau airtel, dated August 21, 1990.

Enclosed for the Bureau is the original and five copies

of a Letterhead Memorandum, captioned as abeve,

interview of captioned subject. Il ids06 secting

Inasmuch as the subject does not appear to have CUIS

contact, nor asset potential, the Miami Division will consider

this matter closed. (S)(U

(202-8517-874

2

114-373)

SECRET

Bureau (enc.

1 - Miami

GES: pi

(4)

TS/TOTTEN

9/10/98

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668-520/12*

REASON: 15 Cal

DECLASSIFY ON: X (D.(50

Approved:

Transmitted

Per

(Number) (Time)

DocId: 32177782 Page 2

1,2,3

---

## Page 3

Released

Hotel.

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

U.S. Department of Justice

Federal Bureau of Investigation

SECRET

n Reply, Please Refey t

File No. •

10198

Miami, Florida

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 Susade

REASON:

(C,d-

october 4, 1990

DECLASSIFY ON: X_

JALFREDO MIRABAL-ALVAREZ;

Classified Vy 15 RABIGAL

Declassify on: DADE SAK)

CORA CAN CORNER INTELLIGENCE - C

(EMIGRE D(S)

Thesentire contents of this communication are

classified "SECRET" unless otherwise noted.

This matter was predicated upon receipt of information

from I-l that ALFREDO MIRABAL-ALVAREZ had arrived in Miami,

Florida approximately in June, 1988. He was

sponsored by his

mother in entering the United States and resided with her for a

short period of time.

MIRABAL-ALVAREZ departed Cuba in 1987 for

spain where he established residency until entering the United

States. While residing in Spain, MIRABAL-ALVAREZ became involved

politically with HUBER MATOS and his organization, _ARMANDO

VALLADARES and MANUEL SANCHEZY PEREZ (Cuban official who defected

to Spain in 1985). MIRABAL-ALVAREZ'S father (now deceased)

served as a Vice Minister in the Ministry of Interior until

"microfaccion" (period of purge of numerous officials in the late

1960'5) .

According to T-1, MIRABAL-ALVAREZ was apolitical while

residing in Cuba.

MIRABAL-ALVAREZ'S Immigration and

Naturalization Service (INS) file reflects

he exited Cuba for

Spain in approximately February, 1987, until entering the United

States on June 3, 1988

as a result of

being petitioned by his

mother, who was granted United States citizenship in 1976.

Cuba, MIRABAL-ALVAREZ'S occupation was an electronic technician

and it appears he applied to leave Cuba in 1967 and was denied

exit by the Government of Cuba because of pending military duty.

On September 11, 1990, MIRABAL-ALVAREZ was interviewed

at the Miami Office

Federal Bureau of Investigation.

MIRABAL-ALVAREZ advised he arrived in the United states on June

3, 1988 through New York. MIRABAL-ALVAREZ left Cuba on February

14, 1987 for Spain, where he remained until his arrival to the

United States.

MIRABAL-ALVAREZ advised that in 1980 his wife and

children were. allowed to leave Cuba for Spain, but he was not

allowed to leave because he was an engineer.

Prior to his

attempt to leave Cuba, MIRABAL-ALVAREZ had just concluded a trip

to East Germany for approximately 20 days in November, 1979.

In

approximately March,

MIRABAL-ALVAREZ

to leave Cuba

202-851750

SECRET

Deetassin

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERCIN IS UACZASSIFIED

EXCRET WHERE SHOWN

DocId: 32177782

Page 3

SINE

---

