# docid-32322790

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90006-10003

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 2-1787-8

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection det of 1992

44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/20/1962

3

PAULINO SIERRA MARTINEZ

POSSIBLE ANTI-CASTRO RAID

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

08/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32322790

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

i ..

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

KIPREFRIATE AGENCIES

AND FIAND OFFICES

ADVISED BE S

DUTING

SDIP (S) 05

ast

DATE

-85 144

Transmit the following in

FBI.

Via -

'SECRET

Date:

December 20, 1962

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

CIA HAS NO 02. Priority of Method of Mailing)

DEOD50T-

RELEASI

JAMATION

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

IN THIS DOCUMENT KN

21-15-98

FROM: SAC, MIAMI (2-341) (P)

0-1203n

0d. 1.4/43

POSSIBLE

1 ANTI-CASTRO RAID

ON CUBA SCHEDULED FOR ABOUT

1962

Tom C18-14

DE CEMBER 16, 1962

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont-

Mr. Mohr--

Mr.

Casper._

Mr.

Callaban

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLnach.

Mr. Evans...

Mr. Gale.

Mr. Bar

Mr. Tavel

Mr._ Trotter _

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes_

Miss Gandy-

05. 1-28-981

ReButel to Miami, 12/18/62; Miami teletyp{y

• to Bureau, 12/19/62.

classified by P&.-Mac

Enclosed herewith are nine copies of a letterhead

memorandum dated and captioned as above.

All persons interviewed were advised that the

by muLneE

OADR

# 211

Classifies

Declassify

U. S. Government does not want any military expedition

against Cuba to leave from the U. S.

Persons interviewed

advised that they would abide by U. S. Government policy

in this matter.

CARLOS ZARRAGA MARTINEZ advised that CIA had

contacted this group of 6 individuals and told them not to

go on any military mission against Cuba.

LOMBERTO DIAZ RODRIGUEZ advised he worked for CIA

and that his boat "Cagique" has been' on missions to Cuba

CIA. (BALE(U)

ION CONTAINED

Bureau

LXCLASSIFIED

(Enc.

ENOLDSURE

Miami

RJD/neb

with note

REE 62-1282-8

RE SHOWN

To DEC 24 1062

sopy to: CIA/STATE/RA9/466 Yeagley/ custon

INFORMAT

WL/OSI/ACSVDIA(2copies)/11

HEREIN IS

By routing

f2ag8g0.

EXCEPTW

HERWESE

JAN

Date

by VHN/dck

SECE-

SBENTEVERSE

SIDE FOR

CLASSIFICATION

астрам

Approved:

Special

Agent in Charge

Sent

SECRET

_M Per -

2-1787

NH 53074

DooId: 32322790

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 2-341

SECKET

advised that that age, RIDERS perational, interest

in the boat "Cacique." (gat.) /L

CIA, Border Patrol,

Customs, and U.S.

Coast Guard were contacted on 12/19/62, and' those agencies

had

no information to furnish on this matter.

Copies of enclosed letterhead memorandum will

be furnished locally to those agencies.

Miami will attempt to locate and interview

MANUEL QUIZA DOCAL and JUAN ESPINOSA GONZALEZ, and will

maintain contact with fri €39-S emine this matter.

2.

Беріт:

SECRET

NW 53074 DocId: 32322790

Page 3

---

