# docid-32338882

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90143-10300

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-370750-126

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 09/13/1947

PAGES: 26

SUBJECTS :

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NW 45838 DocId: 32338882 Page 1

31

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL'

.CC::

-MYC

"Ladd

Mr. Coyne

Mr. Powers

September 19, 1947

ALL INTORMATION CONTAÏNED

MEREINY UNPRASSIFIED

EXCEPT I

ZHE SHOWN

OTHERWI

BY 5l68-s

seabiattay

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

Allant Jacob LovY

Declas

ON

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

I. PERSONAL, HISTORY AND: BACKGROUND

DATE 4.1686 B19145.55

Tha following information with rogard to Lawson's background was

obtatred; fron a book entitled, "Twintloth Century Authore" by Stanley J.

Kunitz and loward layaraft, published and copyrighted November 12912,

by the H. I. Wileon Company, it being observed that there la contained

therein an autoblography of lawson reflecting he is of Jewlah descent and

that His original family name was Low. Lawson was born September 25, 1895,

In New York City. He attended Outler School in New York, and Willeme

Colzege, graduating in 1914. Ils firat job wan that of cable editor in the

New Tork Office of Routers, Itd., in which agency hie father was an executive,

where ho was anployed for more than a year at which time ho resigned after

rocosylas a mpa13 peyment on the optton for a play for Ceorge N. Cohan and

San H. Harria. In 1927 Lawson went abroad, serving in the Volunteer

mbulance Servlos With the French Army, later being transferred to the

Tor tan Front. He returned to Europe for two year after the reallying

chiefly in Parte, then cane beck to the United States ith he no, play,

"Roger Bloomer," which a produoed by the Aotor" Theater in 1923.

"Processions]," Lawsont) second theater drame, was prosented by the

Theater Gusld in 1925, and, according to the book, way the canter of apirited

controversy.

HArving" Followed "proconsional" ln 1921, in hich your the

"new playwright a theater began a short and beetlo career? Lavon men o

Tree or the theater natte Inftilal production ma the political force,

"Loud speaker Following thie, "The International," witten by fareon,

as presented by thie theater.

зарк

PennIngton

Outnn 'Tami

iteraturo vith opecal reference to the varlour populer alang forme

expreseion newspaper, magasines, dramatio and vaudovt110 entertaimmente.

In thia book, Lawson atateu

that bis father, wad Simeon Lo Lawson

no kle mother, Belle Bart Lawaor

He has been marrted tudce, Kathryn Drat

J.

E. POWERS : wma

CONDENTA

нана

NW 45838 DocId: 32338882

Page 2

---

## Page 3

2

CONN DENTIAL.

in 1919, this marriage terminating in divorce in 1925 and resulting in ono

sono

lawson is presently married to Susan Edmund Lawson from which marriage

a son

"and a daughter have resulted. Lawson, according to the book, claims

he is a member of the Council of the Authors League of America, a forner

President of the Screen Writers Guild and a member of the League of

American Writers.

Further, clippings included in the alumni files of the williame

collego revealed the following items;

October 15, 1936, lawson was on the Advisory Board of the

Dramatist Play Service, Indo, 998 East 38th Street, New York City,

established by the Dramatist Guild of the Authority League of America;

March, 1936, Lawson testified before the House Patents Conmitted Hearing for

the Dramatist Guild of America in opposition to the Duffey Bill designed

to modernise the 1909 copyright laws. In May, 1937, he produced a play

entitled "March Song" dealing with a sit-down strike in an auto factory.

The home address of Lawson was given as 2270 Laurel Canyon Boulevard,

Hollywood, California; business address 7210 Santa Monica Boulevard, Loa

Angeles; permanent address Moriches, Long Island; occupation, playwright.

(100-24499-229)

Whote Who, 1946-1947 reflects that Lawson also wrote Success Story,

1932; The Pure in Heart, 19343 Gentlewoman, 19343 Marching Song, 1937;

Theory and Technique of Playwriting, 1936.

It was also said that recent

motion pictures of Lawson were Action in the North Atlantic, 1943;

Sahara, 1943, and Counterattack, 1945.

It is to be noted that Lawson is presently a free lance writer and

his most recent motion picture is "Smash Up."

ALIEUAZIONS REGARDING LAWSON'S COMMUNIST PARTY MEMBERSHIP

Testifying before the Joint Fact-Finding Connittee, California

Legislature, in the fall of 19k, Lawson, under oath, denied that he was a

member of

the Conmunist Party. Hotever, a rellable informant identified

Lawson as a member of the Cormunist Party in 1941 and has stated that

Lawson In a "Camunist Party member, a playimight, and a leader of the

Communist Party fraction among the artists of all varieties in Hollywood."

(Discontinued paid confidential informant of LA office, william Hynes LA3)

In a sworn statement which Rena Vale gave to the Joint racte

Finding Committee, Caltfornia Legislature, John Howard Lawion was identified

an a member of the Conmuniat Party. She stated that he was active in

- 2 -

CONTIDENTINE

NW 45838 DocId: 32338882

Page

3

---

## Page 4

IDENTIAL

Communist circlas in Hollywood whon she was in the Communiat Party and that

in Communist meatings, Lawson had stated that Commnist propaganda must be

integrated Into all screen plays.

III. OTHER EVIBRICE OF LANSON'S COMMUNIST ANCILIADIONS

Meetings of the Plenary Sessiona of

the National Committee of the

Communiat Party were beld on June 28 and 29, 1941.

W1221am Z. Foster,

James %. Ford, Alexander Bittelman and "nuerous other high ranking

Communist leadorgvere alleged to be in attendance and John Howard

Larson was alleged to have attended those meetings as a dolegate

Fron Callrornia (Meno furnished to Chicago Office by Col. Walter I. Fubershaw,

rep of the Carnegia Ill, Steel Co. 100-24499-3)

In 1942, the Conmnist Party was in the process of realigning

Its Districts tbroughout the country as well as raorganising 1ts

structural setup.

Diatriot No. 13 was to include all of the States

of California and levada, and was to have contraliaed offices at

121 Faight Stroot, San Frenolaco, as well as in los Angeles. The.

San Francisco Office of District No. 13 was to be headed by Stave Nelson

and Botty Cannett was to be the Organizational Secretary.

John Howard Lawson and Herbert Biberman vere to control

sonal ork in the Hollywood Area. (Confidential informant

of Chicago Office. 100-16227-20 p. 5).

retur was allogedly handled by a courier system with a person raned

Kathryn Burke being Chief Director of Courier Operations.

reportodly acted as a contact for dale Sondergaard, wife of Herbert

Bibernan, Director and Producer, and close associate of John Howard Lawson,

who handled the material at Los Angeles.

All material from

Los Angeles and the Pacific Coast being sent to Ken York City was

carried by John Howard Lawson who reportedly made frequent trips to

Bew York.

Allegedly when Larson arrived in Hew York, Now

Tork, he Immediately went to the office of

the league of American

OTHER 4

- 3 -

CONFDENTIAL

NW 45838 DocId: 32338882 Page 4

---

## Page 5

GUNN

CAN AI?

guidance of the Committoo, to exploit names of important Individuals in the

furtherance of the Communist Party line. It has been stated that

the progran of the Hollywood Democratic Connittee was not only parallel with

that of the Communict. Party line, but that the organization was doninated

and inspired by persons of a Comnuniat character, including John Howard

Lawson. (Confidential Informant Harvey Gilbert Wolf of the Los Angeles

Office.) (100-197270-2)

According to articles appezring in the Los Angeles newapapers,

the Hollyrood Arta, Sciences and Professions Council of the Progressive

Citisens of America, formerly known an the Hollywood Democratio Committee,

held a five day conference at the Beverly Hille Hotel, commencing Hodnesday

evening, July 9, 1947.

they announced that the purpose of the

conterence was to examine current restrictions on media of expression

in the United States, and that the theme of the conference was

"Thought Control in the United States."

kir, Roward foch, writer

and forner chairman of the Hollywood Writers Mobilization and

author of the sereen version of "lunion to Moscow," reportedly

introduced John Howard Lawson as one of the main speakera

on the program.

Koch identified Lawson as one of the country's

foremost scholars and one who had just completed a four volume "History

of the United States." (100-24499-401)

B. HOLLYROD WRITERS MOBILIZATION

The Hollywood Writers Mobilization was formed very soon

after the attack on Pearl Harbor, on December 7, 1942, and was

established by persons who were most active in the League of

American Writers.

According

to information contained in reports of

the Joint Faot-Finding Comnittee, California Legislature, based

on information developed in connection with interviews conducted

of Bollywood writers in October, 1944, the Hollywood Writers

Mobilization was under the control of the Comnists and had numerous

contacta to supply the pictures which were being released in the

liberated countries. (100-102217-14)

- 10 -

COMMISSANTIAL®

-NW - 45838

DocId: 32338882

Page

5

---

## Page 6

CON

DENTAL

on the back of a pamphiot published 1x: 1940 by the Jewigh

People's Committeo, 100 Filth Avenue, New York Clty, entitled,

"Tor United Action In the Strüggle Against anti-Semition and

Fascism," appoars a liot of the sponsors of this or gantastion.

The nane of John loward lawson id Included,

It hag been charged that, the Jewieh People!e Comnittee,

which developed into the current organisation known' as tho American

Jewish Labor Council, was a Conmuntat inspired groupe

informant of Ny Office) (100-11380-16 p 4 - 6, 61-7590-404)

In the Peoples Daily World for June 17, 194, an article appears

OTHER 4:

conf

anong individuals connenting on the conduct of the Bridges hearing

and the activitten of the EDI was John Howard Lawson,

"Playwright

and screen writer." (39-915-1382)

It has been alleged that John Horard Lawson was a

aponsor of tho Schappes Defense Committee which was. founded

New York City In July, 1942, to raise funds for and help prosecuto

the defence of Morris U. Schappes former City College Instructor

who was sentenced to a pricon term in the State Penitentiary for

perjury arising out of a 1941 inquiry into Communian in

educational institutions. The express purpose of the Comittee

as set forth in one of its pamphlets was "to help prosecute the

logal defense,

(Trash coverage on office of Labor Research Association, 80 E llth: St. NYC)

The name of John Howard Lawson appeared as a sponsor on a

circalar diutributed by thn American Youth for Democraoy, 1567 Broadrey,

Detroit, Michigan, dated December 20, 1945.

(61-777-15-279):

According to a pamphlet issued by the Los Angeles Workers School,

John Howard Lawson, together with Albert Halts and other invited lecturers,

were to be the Instructors at the course entitled, "The Americin Democratic

The courso ras to be given

at the Unitarian Church, 2936 West 8th Streat, Los Angeles.

Of all tha

courses taught at the Workers Schpol, accordins to thie pamphlet, thie was

100-29-34

p 40

STAN

- 13:0

NW 45838 DocId: 32338882

Page 6

---

## Page 7

CONFIENTIALL

the only one not boing taught at tho Workers School proper located at 212

West 3rd Street, Los Angles.

This courso, according to the booklet, "vill

bo a lecture course dealing with the decisive periodo in the history of our

nationg the democratic conditions throughout the developmont of our people.

Beginning with the colontal parlod; the course will trace the growth,

problons and dovelopments of the Amorican tradition during the period of

tho Civil War and reconetruction; it will deal alse with the agrarian populiot

movement, the Fixat World War and the present war for national gurvival."

I is to be noted that this is not the same course that was given by Laweon

at the school, for the loague of American Writers, entitled, "Our Denocratio

Baritage." The Los Angeles Workers School, founded in 1939; according to

the pamphlot, bason ite studied on the various teachinge "in social

scionco.. Warsion. the theory and practive of the vorking clees and tha

people's novenont throughout higtary." The entire board of the workers

School are Comnunsata, according to a confidential informany, who aloo

Indicated that thie school is the educational plant for tho Communiata

in Los Angeles County. (Confidential informant Harvey Gilbett Wolf

(100-24499-234 p 6)

LA Office)

In April,

2946, the Motion Pieture Allianco, 159 South Bevorly.

Drive, Beverly Mille, California, an anti-Communiot group, published a

parphlet indicating that is desired to acquaint the membership with what

"Comrade lawson represents. The pamphlot set farthe

"The following partial liet of comrado lavaon'o affiliations and

activitien 1s condensed from the official report of the Committeo

on Un-Amorican Aotivities of the U. S. House of Representativen.

Every organization and publication mentioned in thie 2ist ae

established to the satisfaction of the Committoo as oither a

Conuniet front, or Communiat controlled;

member of tho American Carmittee to Save Refugeon (Former. Gov.

Herbert Lo Lokmar of New Jork withdrew as a spealor at a banquet

from this group, giving as hia reason that organisatione aponsor.

ing 1t were Commundat fronto)?

"Signed Open letter to President Roosevelt demanding that we

declare war on Finland,

"ember of American Conmittee for Anti-Hasi Seamen.

"Sponsor of American Peace Mobilization which picketed the Whito

House during the Mitler-Stalin pact advocating No Ald to Eritain.

- 2" CONFOENTIAN

NW

45838 DocId: 32338882 Page 7.

---

## Page 8

CONFID

NTIAL

National Committee:

These neetings, attended by V. J. Jerome, head of the

Party's 'cultural commission,' heard the Lawson report on the growth of

Connunism in Hollywood, Including:

"1. Lawson's success in recruiting stars, writers and other Holly-

wood figures to the ranks of the Communist Party.

"2.

The exten't of fund-raising among stars who gave money to the

Innumerable Red Fronts.

"3. The ability of the Hollywood comrades to inject the 'party

line' into various movies in studios where the Reds had

influence."

(100-24499-4)

On June 1, 1947, an article appeared in "The Worker' entitled,

"Brig. Gen. Evans I. Carlson, Hero in Tar and Peace," written by John

Howard Lawson.

The article eulogized the greatness of Carlson and con-

cluded with the statement, "Like the men who died at Makin and Guadacanal,

he gave his life to make his country and the world free. While we mourn

his loss, we pledge ourselves to continue the fight."

(100-242115)

VII. CRIMINAL. RECORD

There is an unverified report that at a lecture in June, 1942,

before a school of the League of American Writers, Lawson stated that on

the day that Sacco and Vanzetti were executed in Massachusetts, August 27,

Capitol. It is further alleged, Lawson was arrested on May 17,

(200-24498t0 a detena Counter Tan er Harold Belton.

It is observed that the New York Times morgue refers to two

articles regarding the arrest of Lawson.: The first article dated July 6,

1934, reflects that Lawson was arrested at Birmingham, Alabama, on that

date and released under bond of $300 to appear in the Recorder's Court

the following day. The arrest reportedly followed a conference between

Lawson and five other New Yorkers and W. O.: Downs, Connissioner of Public

Safety at City Hall at Birmingham.

The article further revealed that on

NIAL

- 24-

NN 45838

DocId: 32338882 Page 8

---

