# docid-32306415

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10290-10055

RECORD_ SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 105-286881-1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/16/1975

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT: OBA, ASSOC, ACA, CONSPR, BOMBING, FINANCES, TRA, ADMIN INSTR

DOCUMENT_ TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

05/26/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

JFK Act 6 (4)

REFERRED TO INS, INC MEMO, LHM

3 ;

DocId: 32306415

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPHIONAL FORM

NO. 10

1573 EDITION

GEA FPMR 141

CFRI 101-11.6

• UNITED, STATES GOT

INMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

DIRECTOR, FBI

SESRETI

6/16/75

DERLASSINES BY S0 8 MACHER

SAC, MIAMI (105-22572)(P)

04.7-16-94

(TER)

SeB

CTION

AND

CIA HAS NO

DECLASSIFICATION

RELEASE OF CIAIMFORMATION

Im

118-

WALDO IGI

Waldo

I.

Waldo Ignacso de

LO DE CASTROVERDO,

stroverte

'Castroverde

"Gi ol

IS - CUBA

Classified by

p3 ck/scl

DOCUARENT.,,

Declassify on

OADR 2/9/53

IT 241, 326

Re Miami teletypes to the Bureau, dated 1/25/75

and 1/28/75, captioned,

"FRENTE DE LIBERACION NACIONAL

DE CUBA, CUBAN NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT, FLNC, IS - CUBA, "

Bureau file 105-256571, Miami file 105-21892.

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of an

LIM setting out information on WALDO IGNACIO DE CASTROVERDE.

Also enclosed for the Bureau is one photograph of CASTROVERDE.

Some information reported in this IHM was previously

furnished to the Bureau in referenced communication under

MM

VAN.

circles

ExICo

MADRID,Mi

IO MAG-2

A copy of the enclosed LHM is being disseminated

@ locally to Immigration and Naturalization, Service, Miami.

(MM.T-1 is MM 1337-S.

*4),

7-2 iS MM 1550-KS. (7) (4)

unt

9-19

/ MM

I-3 18 MN 2030-5. (HU)

This LHM has been classified Secret in order to

protect sources of continuing value as unauthorized dis-

closure of information contained therein could compromise

the sources and be detriment?

United States.

detrimentar-fathe

the best interests of the

CH 45

N05-

289881-

MIami will Con

following activities of WALDO

IGNACIO DE CASTROVERDE

COK

BEC-89

2

- Bureau (Enc.

5

- Miami

THENR

• JUA 2O 1975

(1 - 105-22579)

(1

кота) лес'я

105-21892 (ÉLACT

1

-

7/9/955

105-22578) (MENDOZA)

1

-

105-2856) (BOSCH)

{1 - 105-21947) (ACCION GUEANA)

OC: 1jt

(7)

5010-110

forg

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroly Savingre

SECRET

OTHERWISE /

OT CONTAINED

ASIFIED MA

HOWN

- va

DocId: 32306415

Page 2

Hote) .

14

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

DATE: 11-14-2017

1992 T14 05c 2107 Hote).

RE: WALDO IGNACIO DE CASTROVERDE

ADA

ORLAND&

GARCIA, JR., Son Of ORLANDO

VASQUEZ, of Venezuela, was employed at the filling station

owned by JOSE ALEMAN on or about November 21, 1974.

ROLANDO MENDOLA ANd WALDO CASTROVERDE CaLled upon ORLANDO

GARCIA, JR. at this filling station located at Northwest'

2/th Avenue and sora street, Miami:

and told him that they

would be deeply indebted to him and very appreciative if

he could influence his father to arrange to have BOSCH not

return to the United States from Venezuela.

Miami investigation reflected that WALDO I.

DE CASTROVERDE was also a Bay of Pigs prisoner and arrived

in the United States on May 20, 1961, among a group of

ten Cuban prisoners to negotiate for the release of other

Cuban prisoners in return for supplying Cuba with bulldozers

and other heavy equipment.

MARVIS DUNCANSON, Immigration and Naturalization

service (INS), Miami, on April 10, 1975, made available

INS File A13312725,

under the name of WALDO DE CASTROVERDE

GIOL, which revealed the following information:

CASTROVERDE was born on January 15, 1941, at.

Mariano, Cuba, In 1957, he had the status of a hon-.

immigrant student at North Miami Senior High School,

having arrived on September 12,

1951. Irom Cuba.

destined

to his brother, ARMANDO WALDO DEXCASTROVERDE, at 1090

Northeast 146th Street, North Miami CASTROVERDE was

Bay of Pigs prisoner and last arrived in the United States

on December 24, 1962.

FIA.

A file showed that from 1960 to 1961, he was a

member of the Brigade 2506.

In 1963, he became a member

of the Veterans of Brigade 2506.

Certificate Number

9526944 revealed that WALDO IGNACIO DE CASTROVERDE became

a United States citizen on April 8, 1.971.

His Petition

FIA,

FROVER

October 20,1945, in Cuba. His children's names

are WALDO

ENRI QUEX CASTROVERDE,

born on June 30, 1966, and

sorn on October 29: 1967.

AKAXCAS

IX CAStROVERdE

SECKET

AKA VIViAN YCAStROVERdE

8701

S.W.

Ta th stirr Apt. 23,

2.

MIAMI,

FIA.

SECHS

DocId: 32306415

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Reco

DATE: 11-14-2017

coTt Act of 1992 (11 U5C 2107 Hote).

SE

RE: WALDO IGNACIO DE CASTROVERDE

naturalization

29th Street, Miami,-Florida.

From June 1970 to November, 1970, he resided at 270

Northwest 62nd Avenue,

Miami.

From February 1966 to June

1970, he

calm reside also tes ded those Southwest 3gel Terrace,

and currently resides at 8701 Southwest 12th Street,

Apartment 23.

From 1965 to 1970, he was employed by the

General Motors Parts Division, at 8000 Ban Nuys Avenue,

Los Angeles

California. From September 1970, to

November, 1970, he was employed as a teacher at the

Loyola School, 10375 Coral Way, Miami.

On November 21, 1970, MM I-2 advised that WALDO

IGNACIO DE CASTROVERDE was a good friend of ORLANDO BOSCH,

and he is collecting money on behalf of BOSCH.

On December 5, 1974, Investigator RAUL DI

Organized Crime Bureau,

DCPSD, stated that ROLANDO MENDOZA

and WALDO IGNACIO DE CASTROVERDE are close associates of

SILAS CUERVO, Who is a close associate of LOSE ANTO

COLMENARES.

Recently COLMENARES went to MIGUEL REYES,

also known as "CULILLITO" of the Municipio de Artemisa, at

22nd Avenue and Northwest 5th Street, and demanded money

in return for some AC bonds that he was peddling.

KEYES tOLd COLMENARES that he had no money, COLMENARES

replied that he was the one who had bombed

the offices of

the Municipios En Exilio some weeks ago, as well as the

him to lay off with REYES, explaining that REYES had

connections

with the FLNC and that AC did not want to

start a feud with FLNC.

SE

ET

3.

980-190-87

DocId: 32306415 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the Joha

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy 455a551na1

Records

15C

210) Hotel.

RE: WALDO IGNACIO DE CASTROVERDE

AKA ROlANdO XMENdOZA

NICARAGUA

shows that

born November 24, 2940

on February 2?, 1960.

In 1961, he resumed training and

in the Bay of Pigs Invasion and served two years in Cuba as

a prisoner.

He resided at 201 Northwest 49th Avenue, and

on July 4, 1974, became

naturalized citizen of the United

NALDO I. DE CASTROVERDE

8701 Southwest 12th Street,

This file reflècted that in 1964, he belonged to the MRF

(Movemento Revolucionario Recuperacion.)

His wife is

CARLOTTA SOLARZANO,

In 1971 - 1972, he had worked as an Assistant Manager at

the private club Terrezi, in Mangua, Nicaragua,

Prior to

that, he held several jobs including one at Maul Industries,

He was described as being 5 feet, ll inches, brown

eyes, black hair, EBL

Number 905 002 E

According

to the Information furnished by MM T-3,

ón August 28, 1974, WALDO IGNACIO DE CASTROVERDE is a

possible member of the FNLC.

This source stated that

CASTROVERDE was recently attempting to raise funds for the

purpose of

Pending someone to Spain to bomb the Cuban

Embassy•

MM T-1 advised on January 25, 1975, that a VICTOR

CASTROVERDE and another man had recently travelled to

Mexico City where they planned to have explosives planted

at three targets in Mexico City. One of the targets was

Cuban Embassy in Mexico City and the third target was the

Soviet Embassy in Mexico City.

On January 28, 1975:

MM T-

stated that BEBO

ACOSTA and PEREZ DORESTE had mentioned that WALDO DE

CASTROVERDE and another person had returned from Mexico

City where they did place a bomb at the house where the

pro-ALLENDE Chilean exiles were staying.

This bomb did

not go off and it was apparently located and diffused bur (4)

SEC

52010027

DocId: 32306415 Page 5

---

