# docid-32310664

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10306-10073

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-96445-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MCCANN, JOSEPH P.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/15/1961

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

SAF, PEREZ, ANTONIO PEREZ Y, ASSOC, PRO-CASTRO ACT,

DESCR, BKG, RES, EMP, MEETINGS, INTV, NUMEROUS

INDIVIDUALS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS

INC MEMO

v9.1

NW 45779 DocId: 32310664

Page 1

---

## Page 2

M

Belmont

Dunn

ATY INPORMATION CONTAINED

HERBIN IS UNCIASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

REC- 50:

June I, 1951

1/-3-94

assied by Stole th

Declassily on: DARTER 7 3 435

RES

ANTONIO PEREZ Y PEREZ,

also known as

Antonio Mariano Perez

Reference is made to our memorandum dated

April 14,

1961, entitled "Honuel Enrique Pereira."

' On April 20, 1961, MrS. Harlene Rae Worrow,

1490

Northwest 39ch Street, Liams, Florida, acuised that she hus

knoum Antonio Ferez, uno is headwalter on the ss florida,"

since January, 1961.

She stated that Ferez and his friend

Manuel Pereira are definitely pro-Castro and have continually

expressed sympothy for the Cuban Government and dislike for

the attitude of the united States toward Cuba.

she advised

that on one occasion Perez and she went to a restourant in

Nassau, Bahamas, where they met a Guban who taught physical

education in a publie school in Nassau According to

sirs. Worrow, this teacher was very much pro-Castro.

The above is furnished for your information.

MAILEO, EROM DIVISION ENE

DEMA

105-96445--

2 - London

•105-96414 (Pereira)

Z

- Foreign Liaison Unit

(10)

Tolson

Parsons

Moht --

"Belmont

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach _

Evans

NOTE:

Data received by Miamt indicates that subject and

Pereira, who are members. of the crew of the ss "florida," are

very much pro-castro. Reportedly, the above ships makess twos

Castro meetings.

s Malone.

Rosen

Tavel

It appears that pro-castro feelings of the physical

Trotter

w. a authorities in Nassau.

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

auction teacher mentioned net no de faintered dy sorro

56 U

96

ELETYPE UNIT

CRET

ECORDED

1100-767

PY FILED PI 1050

964.74

NW 45779 DocId: 32310664 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Report Parm !

FD-263 (5-12-55),

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

Office of Origin

SECRET

Investigative Period:

MIAMI

MIAMI

MAY 1 5 1961

2/20-5/4/61

TITLE OF CASE

CHANGED:

Report made by

JOSEPH P. McCANN

ANTONIO PEREZ & PEREZ, aka,

Antonio Mariano Perez

CHARACTER OF CASE

01-4-94

Classifted by SeamAe en

IS - CUBA

RA

" - CUBA

declassir en: c

3254

80-217

Typed By:

:ush

The title of this report is

being marked changed to

indicate subject's full name, ANTONIO PEREZ

Y-PEREZ, as indicated

in the files of Immigration and Naturalization Service, Miami

and the name Antonió Mariano Perez as set forth in the records

of the Penisular and Occidental Steamship Company, Miami.

REFERENCES:

Miami letter to Bureau, 2/20/61;105-96445-1

Miami letter to Bureau, 4/27/61,

entitled Cuban Intelligence Activities

in the United States, Internal Security -

Cuba; (4)

Bulet to Miami, 4/13/61, entitled MANUEL,

ENRIQUE PEREIRA, Internal Security - Cuba;

Registration Act - Cuba.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

-P-

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

LEADS

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K

9-12

MIAMI

S10 NSA

Approved

Copies made:

1

2

M.6.4

Bureau (RM)

INS, Miami (#A-10348939) (RM)

Miami (105-3586)

Special Agent

In Charge

Do not wie le paces boyou -

1051964452

REC 25V

NOT - 20

1& MAY TT 1961

EX-113

H053 1837.61

NX 52

$ 3011

For

saladon

Copy to: CIA/State/RAB

ONI/OSI/G2

by routing shp for info.

Date Sl2

2V/6i by.

1211p

Property

ot FBI - This report is loaned to you by the

FBI,

and neither it nor

SECRET

its contents

be

# U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICÉI 1958 O

-344750

CLASSIFISD BY 5668 SLO/GaL

DECLASSIY ON: 25%0

(6)

TFKS 4/5/98

distributed

outside the

agency to which

loaned.

NW 45779 DocId: 32310664

Pagé 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-3585

SECRET

INFORMANTS

Identity

MM T-1 is ANDREW McCREADIE,

Special Assistant to the

Vice President of the

Penisular and Occidental

Steamship Company, Pier 2,

Miami, Florida.

MM T-2 is MM 726-S, used to

characterize SANTIAGO

ALVAREZ

MM T-3 is MM 492-S, used to

characterize "La Epoca"

MM T-4 is ALFRED ARMENGOL,

Chief Purser, "S.S. FLORIDA"

Municipal Pier #2

Miami, Florida

MM T-5 is

PSI (under development), who

made available a roll book

maintained by FEDERICO OTERO CALERO,

which contains the current

membership list of the 26th of

July Club of Miami

Location

MM file 105-3585, Ser. 4

Instant report, page 5

OTHER 4

MM file 97-268, Ser. 300

-

-

(COVER PAGE)

SECRET

He 10022

NW 45779 DocId: 32310664 Pagé 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-3586

SECRET

as follows:

Informants who were féo

Asted negatively are

107.

MM 492-S by SA JAMES D. HAYES on 4/19/61

MM. 724-S by SA JAMES D. HAYES. on 4/19/61

MM 723-S by SA WILLIAM P. KELLY on 4/18/61

MM 639-S by SA ROBERT JAMES DWYER on 4/21/61

MM 726-S by SA LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR. on 4/21/61.

PSI, by SA WILLIAM G. FRIEDEMANN

on 4/21/61.

RICARDO MADAN RIVAS, PSI, by SA THOMAS H. ERRION,

on 4/26/61:

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and "T" symbols were utilized only in those

instances where it was necessary to conceal their identities.

Sources who furnished information concerning the

26th of July Club of Miami, Florida, were AL TARABOCHIA,

Dade County Department of Public Safety; AL CANTA, Immigra-

tion and Naturalization Service, Miami. Defected members

of the 26th of July Club, who were contacted were ALCIDES

GONZALEZ GONZALEL, former president, and RANULFO SIERRA Y

mentioned in the treasure a Ton coldential gource

mentioned in the characterization isl

(under development) .

DUS

REVIEWED BY FEMUFA TASK FORCE

ON

9/4/97 dal

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

- D*

-

(COVER PAGE)

OTHER 4

TRAYER

SECRET

300-1001:

NW 45779 DocId: 32310664 Pagé 5

---

