# docid-32307098

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/5/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10291-10238

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 97-4546-3RD NR 9

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54046 Date:

08-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, SJ

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/21/1962

5

MR, EMP, PR, ASSOC, POLIT, CONSEJO REVOLUCIONARIO,

MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

HH 54046

DocId: 32307098

Page 1

22

---

## Page 2

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

FEB 2 1 1962

CORP

SAC, SAN JUAN (109-44)

MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO

(REVOLUTIONARY MOVEVENT OF THE PEOPLE) (MRP)

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

ATION CONICARNEIS - CUBA

ASSIFIED

NE SHONS

Classifies by SesBiskel

Beclassify on: OADR42818

Enclosed herewith are ll copies of a Letterhead

Memorandun, dated and captioned as above, as well as 1l copies

of an evaluation memorandum

Information contained herein was received from

MARIANO ROCA-GUTIERREZ, a Cuban exile living in Puerto Rico who

is under development as a PSI on Cuban matters.

ROCA is not

a member of any particular anti-CASTRO exile group, but is

friendly to all these type groups in Puerto Rico!.

He is a personal friend

conceso fevoltionazia, po MERd UNDONe, Preident of one

ROCA was in Chicago, Illinois on a business trip

during the week of 2/4-9/62.

On his return trip to san Juan,

he stopped off at Miami, Florida, where hewisited Dr. MIRO

enjoys with Governor LUIS MUNOZ MARIN of Fuerto Rico.

states that this concern arises from the fact that theic is a

divisional split within the MRP, whose exile leaders are in

Miami, but which is reportedly controlled from within Cuba.

advised that MANOLO RAY appears to have readyy

CT

access to Governor MUNOZ MARIN and is often seen entering and

Leaving la Hortalesa, the governor's nonalon in San Juan. u

TP

ROCA stated that it is his opinion, gathered from

other Cuban exiles, that MANOLO RAY wants the MRP to stress

socialistic ideas in its political platform with which the

MRP leaders in Miami and Cuba are not in agreement. It is

3-Bureau (Enc 22) (RM)

(1-105-92704)

1-Miami (105-3107) (Info) (RM) (Enc2)

3-San Juan

97-4546

{2-205-4256) (2-234-604A)(KY4)

RYCOREED"

RJB: vv/ pam

(7)

183 ARE INFEGMATION CONTAINED

F26

HERUS IS

simon

52 MAR

6 1332

DATE 5 - 12-94 BYSA&

FFIC)

3

NW 54046 DooId: 32307098

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SJ 109-44

CONFIDENTIAL®

for this reason that Dr. MIRO CARDONA wanted to get in touch

with Governor MUNOZ MARIN to explain the true objectives of the

Cuban exile movement under the auspices of theConsejo Revolucionario,

which is not in agreement with MANOLO RAY's ideas. EU

SJ I-1 In this letterhead IS MARIANO ROCA-GUTIERREZ. (4)

This letterhead memorandum is being classified

"Confidential"

as it contains information received

on a

confidential basis from SJ I-l and pertains to political

matters involving a foreign government, namely, Cuba.(u)

- 2-

COME

NW 54046 DooId: 32307098 Page 3

---

