# docid-32305318

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10287-10448

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-333, 334

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-28-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/27/1967

' PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, DELEGATES, EMP, ACA, NO, LA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC A/T, LHM

v9.1

HH 54027

27

DocId: 32305318

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

FBI

Date:

3/20/67 CONSENTIAL

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

ALL IDFORMATION CONTATIM

HERETY

EXCE?

WHit SHOWN

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

FROM:

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (105-2824) (P)

syd

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

IS - CUBA

(00: MM)

0-7101971

6/20/621

Mim 679110169

WOut4/10/09

mo-zu

/RAO._

State

Cubar Affairs,

Re New Orleans letter to Bureau dated 2/27/67 and

Ren-AlIA/M

State/CIA/A

Army/Navy/Air

0-17 dated 3/15/67.

captioned as, above.

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of a LHM

Enclosed for Miami are two copies of

instant LHM.

T-1 is (CARLOS DE LA VEGA (PSI under development)

TF2

is NO 1213-s.

The attached IHM has been classified "CONFIDENTIAL"

to protect sources

utilized therein.

Info

N LEADS:

For

MIAMI

Classified SP6B0ABCL

Declassity an: DAEi: 7/20/85

R/S

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA:

By

Will through Cuban sources

hendeavor to determine the Identities of delegates to subject,

organization in New Orleans and will furnish New Orleans with

any pertinent information it may have concern to

zation's alleged activities in this

.: 1.1

Miami (Incls.

Orleans

2

RJH: Sab

(7)

Approved:

_ M

Per

Sent

CONF

HH 54027 DocId:32305318 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 105-2824

RJH: sab

CONFENTIAL

NEW ORLEANS

Will limit its activities

SAN X2*

CONFIMENTIAI

HH 54027

DocId: 32305318

Page

3

---

## Page 4

nAc. K5K

12-0

1) 101... 8

U

, STATES GI iRNMENT

Iviemorandum

CONFIV

CINIAL

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

SEgRET

DATE! 2/27/67

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (105-2824) (P)

023|1|95

'GY NOV ENTO INSURROCCIONAL DE RBCUPERACIOY AEVOLUCIONARLA

NM

2"""

ICES

(00: Miami)

At"

JFK

пеРь

Classified

Declassi

that subject organization is headquartered in

Miami. and that its activities in New Orleans appear to be

Limited to the sending of lunas which its delegates are able!

to collect in the New Orleans area De la VEGA advised' that

there are two local delegates in New Orleans, Whose identitiés

ware unknown to him.

On 2/17/67, LUIS/RABEL, who was head of the Cuban

Revolutionary Council

in New Orleans about 1961 and who is

generally familiar with Cuban political group activites in

the New Orleans area,

advised that he was of the impression

that MANUEK GIL WaS

delegate of the subject organization in

the New Orleans area.

He stated that GIL lives across the

River from New Orleans in Terrytown, is a Cuban refugee, and

is employed at Kirschman's Furniture Company Warehouse

located"

on Florida Avenue just below the Industrial Canal. MI. RABEI

states he is of the impression that a Dr. (FNU) FONTE, whc

is connected with Tulane University Medical School, is the

second delegate of subject organization in the New Orleans

'ea.

He states that the activities of this group in New

rleans appear to be limited to the propagation of anti-

astro literature among Cubans in the New Orleans area.

On 2/20/67, Mr. FRANK BARTES, a Cuban exile residing

the New Orleans area

who usually has a general knowledge

anti-Castro Cuban activity,

f

advised he has no knowledge

subject organization's activities in the New Orleans area.

On 2/20/67, NO 1213-S, who has a wide acquaintance-

hip among Cubans in

the New Orleans area,

advised that

subject organization has not

been active in herrutifans to

TEt 24

Bureau (RM)

Miami (105-2855) (RM)

New Orleans

0-19 to Newarleans

¡CD:pd

HA MAR

MAR 2771994 U.S. sawings Bonds Regularly an it Paper

All savings Plan Ed

RFT

5010-100

HH 54027 DooId:32305318

Page 4

---

## Page 5

NO 105-2824

WCD: pd

CONESTIAL SERiE

his knowledge.

However! he stated

known that the

ORLAND BOSCH, was living in the New orleans area.

in Miami,

LEADS

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will through Cuban sources endeavor to determine

the identities of delegates to subject organization in New

Orleans and will furnish New Orleans with any pertinent

information it may have concerning this organization's

alleged activities in this area.

NEW ORLEANS

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA

Will limit its activities in this matter to

out of the city for more than three weeks.

2*

CONFINNTIAL

97-4474-333

HH 54027 DocId: 32305318

Page

5

---

