# docid-32340197

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90156-10004

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 92-5509-137

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 03/03/1969

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS:

VARIOUS DOCUMENTS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/11/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32340197

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. 'Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992-711 U50

21U7 Totel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-263. (Rev. 12-19-67)

FEDERAL SUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

MAR. 3

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

1969

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

NEW YORK

12/30/68 - 2/26/69

REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY

JOSEPH ANTHONY COLOMBO aka

NELSON J. CONOVER

CHARACTER OF CASE

baa

AR

REFERENCE:

sex 136

Report of SA NELSON J. CONOVER, 12/26/68, at New York.

-P-

ADMINISTRATIVE:

During numerous contacts with NY 3461-C-TE in

December, 1968, he advised SA, ANTHONY VILLANO that on the

, the subject gave a Christmas party for

vening oldiers" directly under him as well as a nunter of,

"captains".

CONVIC. AUTO.

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

XXNONE

RECOVERIES

APPROVED

COPIES MAGE

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau (92-5509)

1-USA,

EDNY

2-USA,

SDNY

3-New

York (92-1965)

(1-92-1965 sub. A)

1537

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

_CC. AAG, Criminal Divisell,

arganied Crine and Racketering 3 11 4/69

Section, Room aS

MAR 14 1969

- A -

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32340197 Page 2

ACQUIT-

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE-YEAR XYES ENO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

YES XINO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-5509-131

REC 44

(NE MAR 5 1969

ST-103

Notations..

STAT.

GPO: 1968 0 - 299-885

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 714 USe 2107 Roter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

INS

REVIEWED BY EMUFK TASK FORCE

ON 9/28/78 dad

NY 92-1965

REL SAS:

RELEASC A GOT

ADMINISTRATIVE (CONTINUED) :

I TOTAL DENIAL

On 1/2/69, NY 6436-C-TE advised SA DANIEL R.

KINALLY that CARMINE LOMBARDOZZI owns a piece of property

at 1141 85th Street,

Brooklyn, and is selling the property

to the subject for $65,000.

Informant said he understand.

COLOMBO intends to build three private homes on the property

and sell each home for $40,000.

stands there is a stioulation in the deed of this property

that it cannot be subdivided, however, subject has already

taken steps to obtain a variance on the property through

the consent of the former owner, ANTHONY LEPORE.

On 1/6/69, NY 3461-C-TE advised the subject was

quite concerned over a TEDDY (INU) and LOUIS (LNU) who were

not made but were in the crew of CHRIS FUNARI and who had

COLOMBO had said that the three murders were senseless and

that TEDDYand LOUIS were getting away with it because they

used FUNARI's name. .

Informant said that from what he understands

COLOMBO will have TEDDY and LOUIS hit, but before this

happens, there will be numerous sitdowns.

The above information was furnished to the NYCPD

and they have identified the victims of the killings and

they are attempting to identify TEDDY and LOUIS.

On 1/8/69, JACK RICARDI, INS, Brooklyn, advised

SA RALPH A. CIPRIANI

that he has learned

that a woman by

the name of ROSE TRANESE also known as Rose Muriello and

Rose Schiano, who resides at 8635 21st Avenue, Brooklyn,

and is in the garment business had borrowed money from the

subject.

FREDRANESE, 06352lstAvenuerBrooklyn,

was interviewed at his place of business, Joyce Apparel

Company, 341 39th Street

CONOVER

the subject since he and the subject lived in the same

neighborhood.

He said he knew COLOMBO when he was a small

boy and sometimes used to take care of him.

-D-

(COVER PAGE)

DocId: 32340197 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-1965

ADMINISTRATIVE (CONTINUED) :

TRANESE denied emphatically that he had ever

borrowed money from COLOMBO in the form of a shylock loan,

or any other type of loan.

with JOSEPH COLOMBO about the shooting but just what the

outcome

was he did not know.

On 1/23/69, NY 4944-C-TE advised SA JOSEPH M.

FANNING that he understands the subject either took a trip

Informant said that he understands

that everyone is being hush-hush about the fact that COLOMBO

took a trip.

In February, 1969, NY 3461-C-TE advised SA VILLANO

that the subiect had recently been in Miami, Florida,

with

n1s girl irlend lor approximately one and a hali weeks.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY T-1

NY 5779-C-TE

Contacting Agent

SA MARIO J. SIMEONE, JI.

NY T-2

NY 4944-C-TE

SA JOSEPH M. FANNING

NY T-3

NY 4944-C-TE

NY I-4

NY 4944-C-TE

NY T-5

NY 5593-C-TE

SA DONALD A. RIVERS

-E-

(COVER PAGE)

DocId: 32340197 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USt 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-1965

INFORMANIS (CONTINUED) :

It is to be noted that NY 4944-C-TE is covered

by three I symbols to further protect lis identity due to

his closeness to the subject.

LEAD:

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK.

the activities

of the subject.

Will follow and report

-*-

(COVER PAGE)

JOIN - 2902

DocId: 32340197

Page 5

---

## Page 6

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DIRECTOR,

DBI

SAC, NEW YORK

(137-7627)

(237-6684)

BY 3461-C-TE

TOP ECHELON CRIMINAL INFORMANT

6/22/64

on 6/11/64, NY 3401-C-E attended e meting

portion of the COLOMBo "Cantly

• uhich was held

: the hone of JOSEPH CRECO, New Utrecht Avenue, Broaklyn,

Informant stated

the puroose of the neeting weD vo

introduco tho

"captains" in the colospo "Candig

Go the

members of the

regime of "Dosa" 12 0r03g, tho lo aloo

in additton to his duties as "code.

deling as a

* captain" .

Infornant pointed out that CROCO le

not a menber

of #La Code Nostra"

and yet the weeting was held in his

apartment.

He stated that notthes GREGo nor any nepberg

• 08

h1s

faully were present in the epartment while the meeting

waS

heid.

In view of the fact that a live infomant nes present

at this booting. the No wil] @loseminate this information to

only case files in the NO, ho diesemination will be mado

in any reporte from

the individuel case files, end ell files

w111 conbain a

merning

i that uider no eireumatances je any

of the intormation set

forth below to be contated

in any

reports submitted by the N/0.

The information and

dentificationa of those prosent

at the noeting are set

• forth bolon for the infomation of

Bureau

6 - Buroata

(137-7627) (RM)

92-6054)

92-5509)

3: 160

Torie

(137-6684)

92-2300)

g2-1965)

(9)

92-5509=

NOT RECORDED

128 JUN 23 1964

JUR

49660

ORIGI

1.9

DocId: 32340197

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-6684

were

the

The informant advised that present at the meeting

following

i persons i

BOSs

Underboss

JOSEPH COLONSO

CHARLES LENONS

SAM PERIZORE (aseigned to

underboss LEvoNS)

Captain

Captain

Captain

Captain

JOHN FRANZESE

SALVATORE MUSACCLIIO

SIMONE ANDOLINTO

NICKOLINE SDRRSNTINO (waS

not present fu meeting, but

was represented by acting

captain Dick ausco)

Captain

VINCENT ALOT

Gaptaln

JOHN ODDO

captain

NICHOLAS FORLANO

Intormant adviced that captains HARRY FONTANA

and JOHN MISURACA were not present at the meeting

but that boce JOSEPH COLo @d identify them

to the members present as captains in the

COLOMBO "family

Informant advised that the following persons are

members of the regime of JOSEPU COLOMBO and were

•puesent

• the

necting.

CARMINE PERSICO, JR:

JOSEFH YACOVELL

ANTHONY PERATHO

ANTHONY ASBAIDIARCO

JOSEPH: (LNU) (brother-in-law of bose

JOSEPH COLOMBO)

ANTHONY MAGICOCO

AMBROSE MAGLEOCCO

SALVATORE BADALAMENTI

CHARLES LO CICORO

ROCKY (LNU)

MODESTO SANTORG

SALVATORE PROJACI (not the son of JOSEPH PROFACI)

THOMAS

DE BELLA

ANTHONY RICCIANDE

RALPH. TROPIANO

- 2

DocId: 32340197

Page 7

---

## Page 8

(Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USc 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-060%

Informant advised that JOS COLoMO also stated

that the folloning were members of the regime assigned

to hin, but were not present at

the meeting:

LAURENCE CALLO

JOHN CUTRONE

NICHOLAS BIANCO

DocId: 32340197 Page 8

---

