# docid-32149513

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Coltection Act or 1992 199 056 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

UrN ADDADDUNA LUIN DYS LUVI

IENTIRICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10087-10389

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-10461-5110

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. MX

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/01/1964

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 105-82555-3229

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

06/17/1996

STATUS Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/22/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32149513

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released" under the John F. Kernedy Assassihation

DATE: 11-14-2017

Records

"CotTeetTon

171 UST

Director, FBI (105-82555)

manet

Legat, Mexico City (105-3702) (P)

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka

IS - R- CUBA

4/1/64

DECLASSIFIEO

ALL

INFORMATION

NEREIN

IFIED

WHER

SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SECRET

(9803% 06

Bedleset

ReBulet 3/25/64.

pEn pfion

RE/L-TASE

Referenced letter set forth that wlx-18 and

MnX-19 should attempt to resolve some of the questions

set forth in referenced letter and which have arisen

• WIth

regard to lexico City letter and letterhead memorandum

dated 3/16/64.

It is noted that

MeX-18 and MEX-19 have continuall! #YU

been trying

to resolve the questions which have evolved anc

these informants have been anticipating and hoping that they

will

be

able

to learn more from ELIZABETH CATLETT HOA

(Buffle 100-395934;

MC file 100-939) 13o0n as

able to do so.

they are

With regard to the questions set forth in referenced

letter, the following has been determined:

No confirmation has been received fron any other

sources in

Mexico

that the Communist Party of Mexico was

interested in obtaining all information regarding subject's

Lexico trip.

There has been no indication to date from

1Other Other persons that the Communist Party of Mexico has taken

any steps to obtain this information or that the Communist

Party of Mexico was interested in obtaining infornation as

to how much

American authorities know about subject's trip

to Mexico.

U)

In connection with the question as to whether MORA

was referring to OSWALD's activities before he went to Russia

or before he vent to Mexico, [EX-18 and MEX-19 were emphatic (AU)

4 - Bureau

(1 - Llaison Section)

10010461-5110

SEARCHED

.,INDEXED

- Dallas, 100-10461)

SERIALIZED homERFILED...

1 - Mexico City

FER: jhk

INSATIAR

(5)

Classified by

Exempt from CDS

Category

Date of Declastification

INDEN

FBI - DALLAS

TROO

SECRET

DocId: 32149513

Page 2

---

## Page 3

(Reteased under the John F.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennetr

HS5039

552

177 Osr 2107 Hote)

MC 105-3702

CONFINUTIAR

SECRET

that MORA stated OSWALD's activities before he went

to Russia

and sot his activition before he went to lexico.

manceruths the scatement which MoRA mad

and

MEX-19| that OSWALD was well known in Russia amons

Vto/MEX-18

Americans who were there at the

same time as he was and th

The DL4

he was

"not that much of a nut," meaning that he could not

have undertaken singly to assassinate President kennedy,

The co i of have der fat a me MoRA's thought that 4

subject could not have undertaken the assassination of

President Kennedy alone.

As was noted in paragraph 3, page 2, of Mexico City

letterhead memorandum dated 3/16/64,

MORA did not divulge her

source of her information regarding the impression of OSWALD

gained by Americans in the Soviet Union.

has corresponded with MARY LOss Payucson who has

residing in the Soviet Union,

, It Is these Informants' belief

that PArMasoN is the source in Russia

who advised that OSWALD

was well known among Americans there.

determine

XBX-18 and 1X-18| have advised that they hope ted (4l

from

MORA further

details regarding her previous

statements about OSWALD.

From information which MeX-18 and MEX-19 have dU

learned

about word becoming a Mexican citizen, it is constaered

that if MORA were

Interviewed, she would be antagonistic

if any Mexican police attempt to at any time interview her

they are going to run into "a tiger."

If she were to be

interviewed by the Mexican police or by any representative

of the United States Government, there are no grounds to

believe that she would be cooperative in any manner and the

probability exists that she would

that she has

this would expose these informants

-2.

CONDENTAL

SECRET

DocId: 32149513 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released mier the John t Kennet Assass ination

DATE: 11-14-2017

Correction

1997

054

2107 Hotel

MC 105-3702

SECRET

It 1s noted that Mix-18 and MEX-19

that they are unable to ascertain information from MORA

through direct questions.

Whenever a question is made to

MORA, she ceases talking, and the only manner in which these

Informants are able to ascertain data from MORA is to needle

her,

then sit back and with a sympathetic ear listen to what

she has to say.

MEX-18 and VEX-19 intend to learn from MORA addi.

tional details in order to insver the pertinent questions

which have arisen, and they intend to pursue vigorously the

objective set torth for them concerning any intornation

MORA

has in her possession concerning OSWALD. L To date these

informants have not been able to meet with MORA for a two

or three day period because of her illness and her other

preoccupations.

Present plans are for them to take MORA

on a two or three day "vacation" in the first half of April.

As soon as these informants have met with MORA,

this vill

be reported immediately, and récommendations will be

as to any additional investigative steps to be taken.

The reason for Mexico City letterhead memorändum

dated 3/16/64, being classified "SECRET" is being detailed

fully as follows:

to protect he litterhead nogandun was classified "SECRET"

furnishing

cuj

highly sensitive information involving espionage.

and information vital to the internal security of the United

States.

It is essential that the identities of these informants

be fully protected, especially since they are the only source

which received the

Information and MORA is not known to have

discussed the information in the letterhead nemorandum with

anyone else.

informants is of paramount interest to the continued operations

of the Bureau in Mexico, and

reason the letterhead

memorandun was classified "SECRET.

This office will continue

and the results will be promptly reported to the Bureau.

-3-

CRANE DENTIAL:

SECRET

DocId: 32149513 Page 4

---

