# docid-32330405

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90090-10068

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-84265-14

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MOORE

TO: BELMONT

TITLE :

DATE:

01/28/1960

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

19.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32330405

Page 1

---

## Page 2

INCIES

NG

CONFIDAT

TIAL

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVE eMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM :

SUBJECT:

MR. A. H. BELMONT

ALL INFORMATIOD

SCOOTAINED

HEREIN IS UNC

MASSIFIEO EXCEPT

WHERE SHOW

oTheRwise.

DATE:

January 28, 1960

MR. D. E. MOORE

со Мт.

Belmont

MT. Donahoe

MT. Nasca

CRANE dO CASTRO

• RODPIGUEZ:

713118

GEORGE LA

WALDES

AMABLE

CLASS. & EXT.

REASON-FCIM II,

Valdez;a

DATE OF REVIEW

ROLANDO WASFERRER ROJAS, VICTIM

KIDNAPING:

CONSPIRACY:

INTERNAL SECURITY

- CUBA

Tolson =

Mohi -

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

De Loach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter .

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

-2.4.2

7128|91

At 11:30 AM, 1-28-60,

I contacted ASAC Baker, Miami,

and aduised him

that

the Bureau in furnishing information to

sat the Department about the arrest of subjects, was advising the

Department for its confidential information that Fernandez had

11-4

been a paid source; that we were also advising the Department

that it is not definitely known whether the informant would have

furnisned us information concerning this matter, but that circum-

stances were such that it was necessary to arrest him with valder.

I told Baker that they should confidentially aduise the USA in

Miami along these same lines just on the chance fernandez might

raise the question with the USA. Baker said this would be done,

but it appeared quite certain that the informant would not raise

this issue for his own safety. *

I also told Baker that we desired a teletype today set-

ting forth the exact position of the informant in this matter, whether

Miami had been in touch with him prior to the meeting at the air

port hotel on the evening of January 27th, whether he had attempted

ATE

to furnish. Miami any information concerning this matter and what

he had indicated with regard to his intentions as to furnishing

Miami information concerning developments.

Miami was also requested

to aduise what their feeling was with regard to the informant,

whether he was operating with no

intention of aduising us or whether

he may have had intentions of advising miami öf developments when

an opportunity presented itself.

Teague had

with regard to catherine lagle, I told saker that sat

indicated that Taaffe was willing to sign a statement

concerning the information she furnished and I told Baker that if

Miami had not secured a signed statement from her they should do

so, and should adulse the Bureau.

Baker was also: instructed to ad-

before) the USC

which is

Tch

ACTION:

For record purposes. REC- 85

51, FE Ba5(41960

10

EX. - 135

CONFIDEN

-J-48

FEB 1 1960

NH 54460

DocId: 32330405

Page 2

---

