# docid-32178706

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 144 USC

2107 Notel.

Case# :NIT 53130

ate: 06-01-2017

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10228-10416

RECORD SERIES: CG

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-6115-143

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PEDROTTY. LEO E.

TO: DIRECTOR.FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/02/1963

PAGES: 99

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 105-82555-761

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

01/22/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 53130 DocId:32178706 Page 1

---

## Page 2

+T0N7S76I700'"

REFORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

HARRAN

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

DALLAS

12/2/63

11/22 - 12/2/63

REPORT MADK BY

LEO E. PEDROTTY

CHARACTER OF CASE

TrIED IN

lac

IS - R

REFERENCES: Bureau teletypes dated 11/30/63 and 12/1/63.

2-8-93

9803-Rdd/GAT

ADMINISTRATIVE

(AL)

All leads are being set out by telephone and

teletype and are not being repeated herein.

Additional

will be dispatched upon review of this report.

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

AND FIELD OFFICES

ADVISED BY ROUTING

SLIP (S) BY _

DATE

at "

CLASS.

&EXT.

REASON-FCIM

TI,

1-2.4.2

DATE OF REVIEW LE

1/2:

V..

• A

COVER PAGE

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

6a-6115-143

10 - Bureau (62-109060)

3 - Dallas (89-43)

2 - Chicago (62-6115)

PROPERTY OF FBI.--Thie report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor ite contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loi

NW 53130 DocId:32178706 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG.62-6115

JaZ: bab

INFORMANTS

GUNDANAL

Reference is made

to

the

FD 302 of SA HUBERT MI. HARD

reflecting an interview with Colonel JACK REILLY on November 23,

1963, and to the FD 302 of SAS ROBERT R. GLENDON and HERBERT K.

STALLINGS reflecting an interview with TONY PEREZ on November 29,

1963.

The infornation concerning the late hour meetings held by

the Fair Play for Cuba Committee (FPCC) with JOHN ROSSEN at the

Senate Theatre prior to the assassination of the late President

KENNEDY was furnished to PEREZ by an individual identical with

CG 6529-C.

This intomant has been interviewed and he can attach no

significance to the President's assassination and these

neetings.

This information was deleted from the FD 302 because the

original information came from the informant and to include such

infomation on an FD 302 nay jeopärdize the informant.

- M -

serial 143

53130

DocId: 32178706

Page

• 3

---

## Page 4

CG 62-6155

RJT/vmm

CON-YENTIAL

Possible Cuban Connections

With LEE HARVEY OSWALD

On November 30, 1963, CG 6491-C advised SA ROBERT J.

TOMPKINS, Ir., that during December of 1960, he was engaged in

investigating

the activities of BEN JAFFE (who is presently the

subject of an Anti-Racketeering case under the Criminal Intel

ligence Program in Chicago; however, he resides in Las Vegas,

Nevada, and is the owner of the Tropicana Hotel).

He advised

that during this investigation he had an occasion to converse

with

Rev. BILL BEENY of St. Louis, Missouri, concerning BEN JAFFE

while in Del Rio,

• Texas in December, 1960.

He advised that he

read in the Chicago "Tribune" newspaper dated November 27, 1963

that the same Rev. BEENY of St. Louis, Missouri, reportedly a

candidate for governor of Missouri, had offered a home and job

to MrS. LEE OSWALD.

He advised that he conversed

with BILL BEENY regarding

BEN JAFFE inasmuch as BEENY was leasing radio time on Station XERF,

which is located in Ciudad Acuna,

Mexico directly across the river

from Del R1O,.

Texas and is allegedly owned by BEN JAFFE.

He advised that the nominees of JAFFE regarding the

Owner-

ship of this radio

station were ARTURO GONZALEZ and

his partner (ONU)

well-known residents

of Del Rio, Texas.

He advised that he

suspected GONZALEZ to be a Communist and closely associated with

Cuban activities. He advised that CONZALEZ is married to a Cuban

and has made numerous trips to Cuba before and after the Castro

revolution.

CG 6491-C further advised that WILLIAM BURNES of txternatiönal

Advertising Agency, San Antonio, Texas,

is also familiar with BEENY as

he,

i, BURNES,

was

engaged in securing radio time from station XERF on

behalf of BEENY.

CG 649I-C is characterized as a Dun and Bradstreet inves

tigator as well as operating as a private investigator and is con.

sidered extremely reliable.

- ot-

53130 DocId: 32178706

Page 4

---

