# docid-32292646

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System •

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10209-10422

RECORD SERIES: HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-699

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/13/1962

'PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, MISUR CONTINUATION, ARMORY LOUNGE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

/ DocId: 32292646

336

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John. F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC. 2107 Hote)?

DATES: 11-14-2017

"UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI

SECRED

(Bufile 92-3171

JUNE

DATE: 4/13/62

SAC, CHICAGO (92-350-SUB E)

"JUNE"

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

2/25/98

CLOSes BY 5668-54/ml

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

JFK)

3/10/85

Clenciled

X 568 SL0/G41

JER)

Declassio

RE: Title

SAMUEL, M. GIANCANA, aka.

Character of Case

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

CHICAGO

Symbol Number

CG 6486-C*

Type of Surveillance:

Microphone)

CONF. INFT.

1.

Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

Armory Lounge, meeting place for SAMUEL M. GIANCANA and associate

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

7424 West Roosevelt Road, Forest Park, Illinois,

private office of CARMEN FANELLI, OWnEr US

3. Location of monitoring plant:

(Central Tesur Plant

SWISE

• Chicago Office

536 •South Clark

Street

(Chicago, Illinois

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Authorized 8/7/61. Installed 8/8/61. (U)

ALL INTORMATTON CONTAINED

5. Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places):

None.

ALL NORMATION CONTAINED"

HEREIN IS

SSIFIED

DATE4-23-94 BYSERTO/CAL

6.

If installation is a

Not applicable!

/Ochneal surveillance, answer following questions.

8.

Is a trunk line utilized? & f-113,

•72

92-3171-6998

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

5 53 6M :83

a. Is the surveillance on a pusto coin operated talephone 196?

- Bureau (RM)

1181

- Chicago

Registered Mail

SECRE

DocId: 32292646 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 194 USC 2107 Hotey

. DATE: - 11-14-2017

SECRETO

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One "Mite" unit installed in the ceiling

• of the private room

oI. CARMEN rAndull in the Armory Lounge. (U

8.

Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

No.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

See attached.

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No.

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None for same coverage.

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No.

13. Any to quest for the survelllande by autside aganey lelve name, titla and

No.

• 14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rêntal costs for plant premises: None.

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored

Five other surveillances and 14 other lines.

Plant located in

=2 -

SECRED

DocId: 32292646

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note)?

• DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

c. If any others, set out the proportionate cost of

instant surveillance:

15. Cost of Leased Line for instant installation?

None.

16. Personnel Costs:

a. Give total number of special employees and/or Special Agents

working at plant and total salary costs.

5 Special Employees: (SE)

$39,265.00 per annum

1 Special Agent (SA)

11,935.00

4 Special

Agents

34,850.00

Total

$86, 050.00 "

11

b.

(CP only)

(Polish only)

(S)

Total number of man hours per week spent at plant?

5 SEs - 200 hours or 100% of total work week

I SA

- 30. hours or

75% of total work week (CP only)

4 SAs - 120 hours or 75% of total work week

c. If other Installations monitored at same plant, list

(Polish onlyJ(s)

proportionate number of man hours per week spent on

instant surveillance:

CG 6486-C* - 30 hours per week or 15% of total work week of

SEs in plant.

d. If other installations monitored at same plant, list

proportionate salary expense per annum for instant

surveillance:

17.

CG 6486-C* - $3, 533.85

Remarks (By SAC):

It is recommended that this surveillance be continued in.

definitely.

Chicago top hoodlum SAMUEL M. GIANCANA has used

the Armory Lounge as his headquarters in Forest Park, Illinois,

a Western Chicago suburb.

He has met in presence of informant

where he receives

appointments, gives orders, formulates policy,

and generally oversees crimina

activities for which he is

responsible. Information has also been obtained concerning

GIANCANA's current and past activities as well as his whereabouts

and itinerary.

This information is not available through live

informants.

(U)

-3-

SECRET

DocId: 32292646

Page 4

---

