# docid-32167362

## Page 1

Released under the John F Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hate

DATE: 21-11-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

• AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10162-10339

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-10461-4765. 4766. 4767

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

LEG. MX

DIRECTOR. FBI

DATE: 03/16/1964

PAGES:

11

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-2751

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

06/18/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC 2 MEMO, LHM

DocId: 32167362 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act.of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Legat, Mexico (105-3702)

3-25-64

Director, FBI (105-82555)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

KUCLASSIFIED

• EXCEE

WHER

SHOWN

LEE HARVEY OSVALD COVILILGTAN

IS - R - CUBA

OTHERWISE

ENTIAL DEN ESIRED NYSES 50/150

0N.7:1-95

FreS

Re Mexico City letter and letterhead memo both dated

3-16-64,

concerning infornation furnished by

Elizabeth Catlett

Mora about subject.

One copy of relet and one copy of re meno are enclosed

for the information of Dallas.

Enclosed for New York are & copies of relet and 2

copies of re memo.

New York should furnish a briof descriptive

characterization oi wary Louise Camacho who appears to be the

person mentioned by Mora and zetorred to particularly in

paragraph 4, page 2, of re memo.

Although Mora's information should be furnished to

CIA and the President's Connission at the earliest possible

time, the meno is not being disseminated at this time because

of unresolved questions raised by it..

As you point out on the

first page of relet, mex-18 and imx-10/will be with Mora when

she recovers from the illness she has had since 1-6-64, possibly

for a 2- or 3-day period, and they should obtain from her all

aspects of her knowledge

regarding subject,

It is expected that

some of the questions raised by re memo will be resolved by

2 informants.

Some of

these questions are set out below:

From your sources furnishing information about the

CP of Mexico, do you have confirmation of Mora's information

set out in paragraph 2, page 1,

of ro memo that the Cp of

Mexico was interested in obtaining all information regarding

subject's Mexican trip?

Is there any indication steps have been

taken by the CP of Mexico to obtain this information? Also, what

other information have you received,

tf any, that the CP of

Wexico was intorested in obtaining information as to bow much

- Dallas (100-10461) (Enc. 2)

- New York (105-38431) (1-100-13$466) (Eno.

Classified b

204

P. 1,

Bizempt from

DS, Category

Date of dech

ansinicati

on

INDUFINITEA

classy on:

gh9/3

4)

26010461-47367

SEARCHED s

INDEXED here

SERIALIZED

MAR 2 7.1964

FBI - DALLAS

aak special

DocId: 32167362

Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Lotter to Logat,

Mexico

Re:

LEE HARVEY

OSWALD

IS - R - CUBA

105-82565

CONFIDENTIAL

In paragraph Sna

ine memo wora reportedly

of subject'e

le ore his trip to the Soviet

Union."

In paragraph 5, page

she spoke of his activities

in New Orleans before he went

to Russia.

Subject left

New Orleans in September, 1959, for Russia after spending

a very short period of time there.

No information has been

developed that he engaged in any

subversive activities while

in New Orleans at that time,

It is possible that although

Mora spoke of Oswald's activities before he went to Rúseia,

that what she meant was, before he went to Mexico.

This point:

should be clarified.

In paragraph 2, page 2, of re memo the question arises

as to whether it was Mora, Mora's source or the Americans in

Russia who belzeved that subject could not have undertaken

singly to assassinate President Kennedy.

*though Hora is a Mexican citizen, it is possible

she will have to be interviewed eventually.

Underlying all

the information she furnished as set out in re memo, lies the

question whether she not with subject while he was in weico.

Your continuing investigation of Mora's knowledge

of subject should aim at answering the above questions and

your noxt meno shoula contain these answers.

You should make

your recommendations after MEX-18 and MEX-19 have been witk

Mora as to any additional Investigative steps which should

taken. Continue to pursue your investigation vigorously.

It is noted ze memo is classified "Secret. "

this nemo is disseminated to the Commission questions may

be asked about this classification and, therefore, you should

in your next communication

to the Bureau relating

tully dotell vour ronsons for this classiliestion, to deran

The Bureau

is not questioning the correctness of the classification but

merely asking that you set forth fully your reasons for it,

CONHGENTIAL

DocId: 32167362

Page 3

---

