# docid-32296402

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/19/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10217-10178

HQ

92-6054-864

Released under the John

* Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45839 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MUDD, HERBERT K. JR.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/11/1964

'PAGES: 21

SUBJECTS :

LCN, NORTHERN CA, ORGANIZATION, LEADERSHIP,

CRIMINAL ACT, CONSPR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1a

**

v9.1

HH 45839

DocId: 32296402

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

SF 92-593

HKM: Ims

On 11/18/64, a subpoena was

served on

by

Special Agents of this office which directed him to appear before

the Federal Grand Jury at New York City on the morning of 11/24/64.

Information secured from the Trans World Airline revealed

that JAMES LANZA had a reservation for a flight to New York leaving

at 9:00 a.m. on 11/23/64, and return reservation for the evening

of 11/24/64.

SF 2405-C* made available information on 11/25/64, that

JAMES LANZA and his brother, ANTHONY LANZA, were discussing his

trip to New York.

JAMES LANZA indicated,

"There was nobody there

(at hearing) .

They quizzed me on the Mafia, and they asked me

about Fresno."

JAMES LANZA did not give the informant any further

details concerning any of the questions asked.

vised that

The New York Office by communication dated 11/25/64, ad-

appeared before the Federal Grand Jury

11/24/64, and bad completed his testimony. AUSA, SDNY confiden-

tially advised

was upset over the subpoena since he claimed

he has had no business dealings with BONANNO.

He claimed he met

BONANNO only twice at the residence of BONANNO'S son-in-law, Dr.

GREGORY GENOVESE.

complained of the Federal Grand Jury

subpoena in San Francisco five years ago when he appeared in Los

Angeles, California, and he resented his current interview as

"harassment" by the FBI.

JFK Law 10(a\2

INFORMANTS

Informant

Date

7/20/64

7/24/64

By Whom Contacted

SA BRYON C. WHEELER

File Location

SF T-1

SF 2550-C-TE

SF T-2

SF 2354-C-TE

92-593-536

-550

7/27/64

8/3/64

8/10/64

8/13/64

8/17/64

8/19/64

SA JOHN M. PAGE

"

-18

92-593-546

-551

-555

-557

-558

-560

Cover Page

- E

-

HH 45839

DocId: 32296402

Page 2

---

## Page 3

...i

C

SF 92-593

HKM: Ims

INFORMANTS

Informant

SF T-2

SF 2354-C-TE

SF T-3

SF 2656-PC

Date

9/18/64

9/24/64

9/29/64

10/5/64

10/27/64

11/9/64

12/1/64

12/3/64

10/1/64

11/20/64

By Whom Contacted

SA JOHN

M.

PAGE

18

11

"

"

SA JOHN M. PAGE

File Location

92-593-574

-576

-580

-585

-605

-612

92-593-

92-593-

92-593-586

92-593-617

SF T-5

SF 2688-PC

9/11/64

SA EDWARD C. SERNETT

92-593-572

SF T-6

SF 2405-C*

8/24/64

11/3/64

92-41B-304

92-41B-306

LEADS

LOS ANGELES OFFICE

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA. WIll contact informants

in connection with individual AR investigations and also the La

Cosa Nostra investigation for the purpose of being alert for any

contacts JAMES LANZA may have in the future with FRANK DE SIMONE

or any other members of La Cosa Nostra in the Los Angeles terri-

tory. Furnish any other information

coming to your attentior

which may in some way affect the activities and associations of

members of the La Cosa Nostra in the San Francisco area.

SAN FRANCISCO OFFICE

AT SAN FRANCISCO AND SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA. Will main-

tain contact with all logical sources as well as develop new

sources to obtain information and evidence to indicate a conspir-

acy on the part of the members of La Cosa Nostra in this area to

violate the law.

Cover Page

_ F* -

HH 45839

DooId: 32296402

Page

3

---

## Page 4

C

SF 92-593

HKM: Ims

also advised the informant that JOHN MISURACA had sent word with

his daughter that CAMARATA as well as others in California should

be ready and.

available in the event they are called upon to per-

form a service in the future. CAMARATA advised that with all the

trouble that was going on in the United States with the federal

agencies and the organization, he did not want to have anything

to do with it. CAMARATA could not see why JOHN MISURACA could

not understand that there was too much trouble going on to get

themselves involved in something like this.

SF T-1 advised on July 24, 1964, that he had been in

touch with ALEX CAMARATA'S wife and

she told him that her father,

JOHN MISURACA, of Irvington, New Jersey, "didn't have much faith

in the membership of La Cosa Nostra in the San Jose and San Fran-

cisco Bay Area as they were all too fat and satisfied with their

present existence."

ROSE CAMARATA advised the informant that while in Irving-

ton, New Jersey, she saw SALVATORE LOMBARDINO, who sent his re-

gards to SAL COSTANZA and inquired as to his well

being.

SF T-2 advised on July 27, 1964, that he had paid a visit

to JOSEPH CERRITO at his home on the afternoon of July 26, 1964.

Informant advised that ANGELO MARINO and his small daughter were

at CERRITO'S home at that time, but that during his stay he learned

from MARINO that MARINO, JOE CERRITO, STEVE ZOCCOLI, CHARLES

CARBONE and MANNY FIGLIA had been together on Saturday night.

In-

formant stated that MARINO did not indicate the purpose of their

meeting nor where the meeting had taken place. Informant noted,

however, that he had been at ANGELO MARINO'S home on Saturday

night talking to ANGELO MARINO when MANNY FIGLIA arrived and

ANGELO and MANNY departed immediately without indicating to anyone

in the household where they were going.

JOSEPH CERRITO

Los Gatos, California

SF T-2 provided information indicating that JOSEPH

CERRITO and his wife ELIZABETH were planning a trip to burop

and would leave this area sometime in the middle of August 1964

The files of the Passport Office, Department of State,

San Francisco, revealed when reviewed on July 30, 1964, that the

passport of GIUSEPPE (JOSEPH) CERRITO and passport of ELIZABETH

- 3 -

HH

45839 DocId: 32296402 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SE 92-593

HKM: 1ms

CERRITO had been renewed on July 23, 1964.

The application for

renewal stated that they would leave the United States on approxi-

1964, from Kennedy Airport, New York City

Pan American

nately August lines; will spend approximately four months in

Italy, France, Spain, Portugal and Switzerland as a pleasure trip.

Files of the American Airlines in San Francisco, reviewed

on August 3, 1964, revealed that CERRITO and his wife had

tions on American

Airlines Flight #14 leaving san francisco on

August 16, 1964, and arriving in New York the same day, traveling

first class. The files of the Pan American Airlines in San Fran-

cisco, reviewed on August 3, 1964, revealed that CERRITO and his

wife had

a reservation on Pan American Flight #114 leaving Kennedy

Airport; New York on August 19, 1964, for Paris, France.

On August

20, 1964, they had a reservation on Alitalia Airlines Flight #327

for Milan, Italy.

On August 3, 1964, SF T-2 advised that JOSEPH CERRITO

had informed him that

when he arrives in Milan, Italy he would

pick up a Fiat automobile at the Fiat factory.

The two reviewed

a map of Europe and CERRITO indicated that from Milan they will

drive down to Genoa and

generally follow the coast route through

France, including Marseilles and the French Riviera into Spain,

where he will visit Barcelona and Madrid. CERRITO also plans to

visit Mallorca, an island off of the Spain mainland.

CERRITO ad-

vised the informant that after this visit he will drive back through

France to Switzerland before going south into Italy and on into

Sicily, where he will visit members of his family and spend most

of his

while in Europe.

SF T-2 on August 13, 1964, advised that he and JOSEPH

CERRITO during the period August 4-7, 1964, had made a trip to

Hawaii where they rented an automobile for the purpose of looking

over the Shaky's Pizza Restaurant and also looking for additional

property on which to build another building for a pizza parlor.

He stated that they traveled around the area and stopped at various

real estate offices and checked on other properties in the immedi-

ate area of Shaky's location in Hawaii.

Informant

advised that

property values were extremely high and locations

in which they

were interested in were completely

out of line

as to the purchase

price.

He stated that they also visited the Diamond Head area

and after a few days returned by plane to San Francisco.

SF I-2 advised on August 17, 1964, that JOE CERRITO and

his wife left San Francisco on Sunday morning, August 16, 1964,

from International Airport at San Francisco.

He stated that members

of the family greeted them goodbye and no other friends were pre-

sent.

_4.

NW 45839 DooId: 32296402 Page 5

---

## Page 6

C

SE 92-593

HKM: 1ms

On August 16, 1964, the departure of JOE CERRITO and

his wife was observed by Special

Agents of this office and it was

ascertained that members of the immediate family of JOE CERRITO

and JOHN ARDIZZONE, his brother-in-law, and a cousin, GIUSEPPE

MARINO, who operates the San Jose Imports Company, and JOE CERRITO

were also present.

The New York Office by communication dated August 31,

1964, advised that CERRITO throughout his stay in New York City

was In contact with SALVATORE J. PROFACI, JR., nephew of the de-

ceased JOE PROFACI. CERRITO was observed on several occasions

residence of PROFACI and on one occasion BILL BONANNO, son

Of JOE BONANNO, Commission member, and SALVATORE PERITORE, Of the

JOSEPH COLOMBO

Family of La Cosa Nostra, were also in attendance

at the residence.

COLOMBO is the current successor to the late

JOSEPH PROFACI.

BILL BONANNO is the

RU Family, in New York With so 111o

JOE BONANNO Family.

St T-2 advised on October I, 1964, that he had received

a card Irom JoE cekkite on september 30, 1964, and this card had

been airmailed from Palermo, Sicily and merely indicated CERRITO

was enjoying his trip in Europe.

SF I-2 advised on December 3, 1964, that he had talked

to STEVE CERRITO, JOE CERRITO'S oldest

son, and STEVE advised

the informant that he had been requested to send his father some

additional cigars and that he and his wife plan to remain in

Palermo through the Christmas holidays. Informant advised that

there was no mention made of any plans or date as to when the

CERRITOS would return to the United States.

ANGELO MARINO

San Jose, California

SF T-2 advised on August 11, 1964, that he and his wife

have visited the summer

home of ANGELO MARINO at Aptos, California.

Informant indicated that ANGELO MARINO had gone to Sacramento on

business that date and that PRECIOUS MARINO, his wife, and her

brother, SALVATORE MAGGIO,

and family were at the Aptos residence.

Informant advised that during the evening, PRECIOUS MARINO "blew

her top" and stated that she feels ANGELO MARIO is continuit!

to have an affair with MARIA MACK and further stated that,

I catch them together, I'll kill them both."

Informant stated

- 5 -

NW 45839 DocId: 32296402 Paqe 6

---

## Page 7

SE 92-593

HKM: Ims

It is apparent that ZERILLI is no doubt identical to

JOE ZERILLI, member of La Cosa Nostra in Detroit, and the other

individual referred to is possibly ANTHONY JOSEPH (TONY) GIACALONE,

also located in Detroit.

STEVE ZOCCOLI

San Jose, California

Investigation has determined that STEVE ZOCCOLI continues

to maintain his association with JAMES LANZA with his attendance

at the weekly poker games, which are usually held in San Mateo,

California.

STEVE ZOCCOLI also maintains his association with

JOSEPH CERRITO and other members of La Cosa Nostra in the San

Jose, California area.

CHARLES CARBONE

San Jose, California

SF T-2 on October 5, 1964, advised that CHARLES CARBONE

had been hospitalized at the Santa Clara County Hospital on

October 1, 1964, as a result of a heart attack.

Informant stated that while at the hospital he was met

by PHIL ZOCCOLI and in a brief conversation, ZOCCOLI indicated

that his brother, STEVE ZOCCOLI, had recently placed his home up

Los Angeles, California where she could be near her daughter.

On November 9, 1964, SF T-2 advised that CHARLES CARBONE

was now at home, but was

• still critically ill. Informant indica-

ted that CARBONE continues to be virtually paralyzed and is unable

to speak, apparently as. a result of a stroke.

PHIL MORICI

San Jose, California

SF T-2 advised on July 29, 1964, that PHIL MORICI had

handled the flight reservations for MANNY FIGLIA and his wife and

family on their recent trip to Detroit, Michigan.

JAMES JOSEPH LANZA

San Francisco, California

-7-

HW 45839 DocId: 32296402

Page 7

---

## Page 8

SF 92-593

HKM: 1ms

SF T-6

advised on August 24, 1964, that TONY MIRANDA

from Phoenix, Arizona and GENE BUFALINO of Los Angeles, California

called at the

office of JAMES LANZA. Informant advised that the

purpose of this call was unknown, however, JAMES LANZA was quite

disturbed at the visit of TONY MIRANDA. This may be based

on the

fact that MIKE MIRANDA, aka, who is known to JAMES LANZA, is now

the consiglieri of the VITO

GENOVESE Family of La Cosa Nostra in

New York City.

LANZA advised the informant that he should have

been advised that TONY MIRANDA was coming to San Francisco and he

was very suspicious about his visit; however, informant was unable

to obtain further details concerning this matter.

On December 1, 1964, SF T-2 advised that ANGELO MARINO

had commented that MANNY FIGLIA had been in contact with JIMMY

LANZA on Saturday, November 28, 1964, and apparently had played

cards with LANZA the night before.

According to the informant,

MARINO stated that MANNY had commented that LANZA had just re-

turned from a trip to New York where he had been subpoenaed to

appear before a Federal Grand Jury.

Informant stated that MARINO

indicated that LANZA'S appearance at the grand jury was "supposedly

just routine" and furnished no additional information to the in-

formant.

MEMBERSHIP

DOMINICK ANZALONE

VITO ADRAGNA

San Jose, California

SF T-2 advised on September 18, 1964, that during the

past week DOMINICK ANZALONE had continued

to associate with VITO

ADRAGNA in the operation of the Acme. Vending Company.

It was

noted that ANZALONE continues to participate in the route collec-

tions of the business.

SF I-2 advised on September 29, 1964, that JOHN ARDIZZONE

on September 25, 1964, advised that VITO

ADRAGNA had recently

exhibited concern about his vending machine business.

According

to ARDIZZONE, ADRAGNA feels that authorities are pressuring

some

of his accounts in an effort to develop information concerning

ADRAGNA'S financial dealings and ADRAGNA is obviously upset by

this activity.

Informant stated that ARDIZZONE did not specifi-

cally point out the authorities were putting the pressure on

ADRAGNA.

-8.

NW 45839 DooId: 32296402

Page 8

---

## Page 9

C

SF 92-593

HKM: 1ms

FRANK SORCE

SF T-2 advised on October 28, 1964, that FRANK SORCI

continues to be involved in bookmaking

activity in the area of

Redwood City.

The informant did not know the extent of this

operation.

CONSPIRATORIAL ASPECTS

SF T-2 advised on September

24, 1964, that he paid e

visit to the residence of STEVE ZOCCOLI in order to weicome them

back from their trip to the east.

He stated while at the residence

DOMINICK ANZALONE, MANNY FIGLIA, CHARLES CARBONE, ANGELO MARINO

and his wife PRECIOUS also were present. He stated that later in

the evening ZOCCOLI, FIGLIA, CARBONE and ANGELO MARINO moved into

a separate room next to the

kitchen area and the informant remained

in the kitchen conversing with Mrs. ZOCCOLI and PRECIOUS MARINO.

Informant advised that during this period he overheard part of

the conversation from the next room.

He noted that STEVE ZOCCOLI

had stated to the others that,

"JOHN sent his regards to everyone."

Informant was unable to determine the identity of JOHN and he

did not hear a last name mentioned.

Informant further advised that he overheard MANNY FIGLIA

talking about the fact that PETER MISURACA had recently been in-

terviewed by FBI Agents.

MISURACA, it was inferred in this interview that he, MISURACA,

neared in th

FIGLIA stated that, according to

was in the doghouse in San Jose.

Informant stated that during

this conversation, the participants expressed considerable concern

that someone might be furnishing information to the FBI and also

indicated a general feeling that the FBI has plants on all of them.

SF T-5 advised on November 20, 1964, that he had re-

called one MATHIS, owner of the Campbell fooc

products at San

Jose, a firm dealing in dehydrated foods, has discussed ANGEL

MARINO with the informant.

According to the informant, MAThis

in addition to his San Jose location has an office in San Diego,

California and employs at the San Diego location FRANK BOMPENSIERO,

who according to MATHIS is an ex-convict.

Informant stated that

MATHIS has commented to the informant that ANGELO MARINO, whom he

has met on occasion, has on numerous occasions visited with

BOMPENSIERO at the Campbell Foods Office at San Diego, California.

Informant stated that 'MATHIS has expressed wonder as to why MARINO

- 12-

HIH

45839 DooId: 32296402 Page 9

---

