# docid-32333609

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90107-10192

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-117222-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

04/03/1963

4

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

OPERATION ALPHA 66

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/03/1998

OPÉNING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

y9.1

NW 45773 DocId: 32333609 Page 1

91

---

## Page 2

WFO 105-50870

CONEXENTIAL

The confidential informant mentioned in the enclosure

is

who furnished the information

the enclosure to SAs HOWARD P. WINTER and HARVEY E. WILKINSON.

requested that his identity as the source of this

information be kept confidential because revelation of himself

is its source would alienate the friend who furnished him the

normation and would frustratel

chances of securing

further pertinent information concerning captioned organization.

SARRAIN promised to relay to WFO any further pertinent data he

might be able to secure. In this connection, SARRAIN stated

that he disapproves of hit-and-run operations but indicated

that, given the opportunity, he might personally engage in a

substantial guerrilla attack in Cuba designed to destroy any

large public facility, the destruction of which would definitely

hurt the CASTRO regime.

During the interview with him,

revealed that

he had last week been personally approached by an agent of

Operation Alpha 66 and offered $400 per month plus expenses •

If he would agree to train for and assist in actual hit-and-

said that

he declined the offer. He advised, however, that he would be

willing to penetrate the organization as an FBI informant if

this were desired and if suitable terms could be agreed upon.

SARRAIN was advised that his offer was appreciated but could

not be accepted.

was interviewed at his home, Apartment P-2,

7888 New Ripes Road, Adelphi, Maryland. As the Bureau is

aware,

is 40 years of age and a lawyer by profession.

He has stated that for some five years prior to 1/1/59, he

served as prosecuting attorney in Havana, Cuba. He fled Cuba

in May, 1959, for political reasons.

He has admitted that he

six months of an 18-month prison term in the Federal

Correctional Institute at Tallahassee, Florida, for forging

United States visas in an effort to have relatives and friends

in Cuba admitted to the United States.

_ is presently

employed as a laborer at the Duron Paint Company in Beltsville,

Maryland. RV

At the conclusion of the interview with him,

volunteered information that ROLANDO VEGA and a Cuban

associate

have lately been traveling frequently between Washington,

and Baltimore, Maryland, in an effort to round up sympathizers a

OTHER 4

NW 45773 DocId: 32333609 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFID

ITAL

OTHER 4

WFO 105-50870

of Operation Alpha 66 who might be willing to make monetary

contributions.

said that he had observed VEGA and

associate traveling in an old Ford station wagon bearing

1963 Washington, D. C., License Plate EZ-744.

On 4/2/63, Mrs. MARY PARLON, D. C. Motor Vehicles

Department, advised

that the above D. C.

license tag belongs

to a 1956 Ford ranch wagon registered on 3/2/62 as the property

of FELIX D. CENTENO, 200 Trenton Place, S.

It would appear that CENTENO may be

source of

information in this matter. & l

WFO indices contain no references to FELIX D. CENTENO.

WFO indices also contain no information identifiable with the

Dr. TIRSO who is mentioned in the enclosure. ROLANDO VEGA,

mentioned in the enclosure, was previously mentioned in WFO

airtel 3/29/63 in instant matter.

LEADS

REQUEST OF THE BUREAU

Bureau's attention is invited to

offer to

penetrate Operation Alpha 66 as an FBI informant as set forth

on page two of instant letter.

This offer is a continuing one

and could be reactivated if Bureau should find it of value in

the future.

u.

LOS ANGELES DIVISION

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

Will endeavor to identify the Dr. TIRSO (phonetic.)

mentioned in the enclosed LHM as the owner of a hospital in

California and the head of a society of Latin Americans which

is very anti-CASTRO.

The informant has reported that Dr. TIRSO

and his associates have offered as much as $60,000 to finance

a single armed

act against the CASTRO regime. d

WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE

AT WASHINGTON, D. C.

1. Will, upon the completion of an appropriate

background inquiry, interview ROLANDO VEGA, waiter at the

Mayflower Hotel in Washington, D. C., who is reported to have

replaced Dr. LUIS FELIPE DUANY, TR., as Washington,

=3 -

NW 45773

DocId: 32333609

Page 3

---

