# docid-32160264

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(44 USE 2107 Hote)-

DATE: 11-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: - FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10138-10036

RECORD_SERIES: DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-563-84

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BICKFORD. EVERETT J.

TO:

SAC. DE

TITLE:

DATE: 12/11/1963

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT:

JR, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

05/01/1997

Redact

NEW -

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6(4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32160264

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2101

MOtER DATE: 261714-2916,

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

3010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

SAC , DETROIT (137-914)

FROM

SA

EVERETT J. BICKFORD

DATE:

12/11/63

_PCI

LPSI.:

SUBJECT:

DE, 844-C

Dates of Contact.

11/26/63

Titles and File #s on which contacted

JACK RUBY: - KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

HOWARD DIXON

FRAMK HAKIN

LAYOFF OPERATIONS

44-563

165-226 (LUNT)

(92-853 (closed)

165-150 (CAMMORATA)

165-249 (ARNETT)

Purpose and results of contact

•NEGATIVE

¡POSITIVE

CI was negative concerning the President

KENNEDY assassination and is not personally acquainted with

PARL RUBY o1 SuchIlela, Michigan, brothe! of jAck RUBY. He

stated he had never known anyone named EARL RUBY,

connected

with the Cobo Cleaners, to be a gambler or associated with

BILLY OF TONY GIACALONE or any other hoodlums.

Ainformant certified that he has

furnished all information obtained

Rating

Very good

by him since last contact.

Personal Data

Sale of Bouche's Lounge to s.

RICCI

did noi go through; still owned by ANNA GAVIE

who owes CI back wages.

Coverage

Same

TOB: 105100

44-563-84

SEARCHED

AALEXED

SERIAUIZED 7

7150

DEC 1 ? 1963

- DETROIT

Ковескана ск

\ DocId: 3216026* Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under

the

John F Kennet

tate):

DATE: *

11-14-2017

ination.

Records Collection Act of 1992.441 USC 2100

*DE 137-914

BOOKIE,

CONTROL FILE

162-18:

FRANCIS

"FRANK" HAKIM

165-150

92-853

HOWARD DIXON

165-226

LAYOFF OPERATIONS

165-249

Concerning "Layoif" operations, Informant avised

that since the introduction of federal laws governing the

transmission of wagering information interstate, practically

all layoff action in Detroit is handled locally

The only

possible exception, of which he is aware, is that FRANK HAKIM,

a very large east

side Detrolt )sports) man, still makes

numerous out-of-state telephone calls and could be engaged in

layoff action out of state.

CI stated he was not close enough

to HAKIM to know the amounts of money Involved'or who HAKIM

was calling. He thought it possible that HAKIM may be calling

out layoffs for others, aside from himself. CI made a telephone

call and came up with the number LI 3-6912, which he stated

was the present business telephone number being used by HaKIM.

The presser's directory reveals this

number to be

located to LOUIS MELTON,

• 21160 Kipling, Oak Park, Michigan:

The alphabetical directory shows this number and also number

547-3108 under name L.

MELTON

CI continued that early in 1963, HAKIM worked out

of an apartment at 640 Delaware, Detroit,

where CI also lived

and when CI moved out of apartment, number 308 in July, 1963

HAKIM moved In and stayed for three months. This apartment

is now vacant.

CI advised that hells presently "on the outs"

"with

HOWARD DIXON

and is considering severing all relations with

DIXON'S

He stated DIXoN had promised to use the CI's apartment

on Schaefer for which he was to pay the rent and telephone

bill.::

Instead DIXON has moved in with a prostitute on

Collingwood or Wet Euclid and left CI with the bills for rent

and two telephones. CI furnished DiXON's present phone.

numbers

as TR/ 5-0803

and TR: 5-6625

(This latter number is listed to

WANDA TROUTMAN, 150 West Euclid; however,

the first Is N.Pp)

- 2 -

DOELT 32160264:

"Patie

---

