# docid-32327340

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/5/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90062-10038

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 151-1020-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/09/1964

11

MARVIN KANTOR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32327340

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 151-206

INFORMANTS

Identity

MARVIN KANTOR enclosed in

Bureau letter to Chicago, 12/8/60

Chicago T-2,

E. MOGENS JENSEN,

Chief, Danish Security

service, Copenhagen, Demari

Information

London,

2/24/60; Legat letter

Information furnished

memorandum 11/25/60

Location

105-7568-1

105-7568-28

_B%-

COVER PAGE

SECRE

151-1020-11

DooId: 32327340

Page

---

## Page 3

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

*DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 151-206

DETAILS:

Chicago T-1, another government agency which conducts

intelligence investigations,

- furnished

MIKHA ILOV ICE ABARCHALINE and REMBERT CAVEN ALLEY at Copenhagen,

Denmark.

Chicago T-2, a confidential source abroad, advised

on February 24,

1960,

that he considers ABARCHALINE, a clerk at

the Soviet Embassy in Copenhagen, probably a cadre worker of the

KGB (Soviet Intelligence) Residency in Copenhagen, Denmark.

Source

advised ABARCHALINE maintains close contact with VLADIMIR

ALEXANDROVITCH ICHOURANOV who has been identified as a KGB Officer.

ABARCHALINE has been in Denmark since 1958 and has recently made

en spiclous eftartin to establish contacts with Amerlean students

in Copenhagen

Chicago I-1 stated that on October 29, 1959, (ABARCHALINE] CS)

met ALLEY at the Townhall Square in Copenhagen after which

they went to a restaurant and later to a theater.

Chicago T-l further advised That ALLY appeared to have

been the individual who arranged for /ABARCHALINESto meet MARVINCS

KANTOR inasmuch as ALLEY indicated to ABARCHALINE) on November 5(5]

1959, that he would introduce the latter to KaNIOR that evening.

It was believed that on that evening ALLEY and (ABARCHALINE) walked LS

together to KANTOR'S address but failed to see him.

Chicago Tel furnished

April 16, 1959:

3(u)

the following information on

According to the United States Consul in Copenhagen,

MARVIN KANTOR recently visited the Consulate to have his

passport renewed,

The Consular clerk noted an unspecified

number of visas and entry and exit stamps for Iron Curtain

countries.

She commented that subject appeared to have

done

a lot of travelling in Eastern Europe, to which he replied,

"Yes, that aids my studdes." The clerk then asked KANTOR

if he would like to register with the United States Consulate,

after which he inquired,

"What does that involve?"

The clerk

explained that it provided a means of contact in the event someone

in the United States wished to reach him or should the Embassy

wish to provide him information which would be in his interest

as

a United States citizen.

According to the clerk, KANTOR very

definitely indicated his lack of desire to be registered in the

Consulate.

He explained to the clerk that he was studying at the

University on the G.I. Bill and

that

he had recently been back

in the United States

on a visit.

GERrOR TH 151-1020-11

-2-

DocId: 32327340

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released ander the "John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECH

CG .151-206

PROFOENAR

Chicago I-l advised that a reliable source furnished

the following information:@

KANTOR carries United States Passport Number 439313

and originally arrived in Denmark on July 26, 1957. Information

available to this source indicates that KANTOR'S father, IRVING

RANTOR, and mother, SARAH, nee BRODSKI, immigrated to the United

States

from the USSR approximately 36 years ago. KANTOR is entolled

at the University of Copenhagen,

specializing in Slavic languages

and appears to be working

; toward a Masters Degree (magistereksamen).

The complete work leading to this dogree ordinarily requires

five years.

KANTOR claims to receive a stipendium from the

United States for three years amounting to $110 per month.

When this stipendium expires, KANTOR expects his father to

support him financially.

On one occasion he stated that he had

been home for the Christmas holidays from November 25, 1958, to

January 30, 1959. He has also stated that he plans to travel to

Germany to

purchase an automobile, and that from May 31, 1958, to

July 9, 1958, he participated in a study trip to Moscow.

He has also

if his progress in the Russian language continues, he

intends to visit Moscow again for a period of five or six months.(O U

A professor at the University has described KANTOR

as "very diligent."

KANTOR rents a room which costs him DKR 95

per month", and he eats in an off-campus restaurant which is known

for its cheap but sizeable servings of food. It is estimated

that subject could cover his food and housing for less than

DR 500 per month; however, this would not leave much left of the

ano lon tile to loicos and the united states, or the purchase of

an autonobile.

MARVIN

KANTOR,

born May 9, 1934, departed from Denmark

on May 28, 1959, via the

Fedser-Marnemunde Ferry: Marnemunde is

located in East

Germany.

* (4)

1959,

chicage l-l stated

ABARCHALINE was observed entering a local restaurant with

That on the evening of November l0'CS

ALLEY and KANTOR.

In the restaurant they joined two unidentified

individuals of Oriental appearance at one of the tables.

appeared that all members of the group knew each other as they

immediately entered into a rather animated conversation.

looked at some papers or magazines one of which bore the title

"Soviet Film."

Later in the evening, KANTOR left the restaurant

alone carrying a newspaper or magazine.

ALLEY and ABARCHALINE (S)

departed soon after

KANTOR and ALLEY returned alone to his residence

a short time later

SE

RED

-3

CONDEMNS

1 DocId: 32327340 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 151-206

Chicago T-2 on November 21, 1960, furnished the

which is

but more detailed.

On October

ALLEY, JR.

and made an appointment to meet him that evening.

where they might talk in peace. These two individuals met at the

Town Hall Square in Copenhagen shortly before 8:00 p.m. on

October 29, 1959. (ABARCHALINE was carrying two books and a CS]

periodical,

They proceeded to a small cafe and while there it

(S) was apparent that ABARCHALINE gave ALLEY the books and the periodicals

IS ARCHAN at it that on cemen dicated

he would

bring "MARVIN" with him.

According to Chicago T-2,

"MARVIN" is

Shortly thereafter, ALLEY and ABARCHALINE went to a restaurants

after which they proceeded toward ALLEY'S home.

When these two

departed, CABARCHALINE was no longer carrying the book and it was'(S]

apparent to Chicago T-2 that he had given it to ALLEY. (oc)

On November 16, 1959, (ABARCHALINE) again met ALLEY and CS]r

KANTOR in a restaurant in Copenhagen.

In the restaurant,

the three

of them conversed with two unknown individuals.

Later in the

evening, ABARCHALINE and ALLEY left the restaurant together. CS]

ALLEY was carrying a newspaper at the time.

One of the

unidentified individuals was later determined to be MORRAY: BROWN,

a United States citizen, born March 23, 1934, in New York.

The

other individual was later identified as AHMED EL BADAWI MOHAMED

\ ABDEL-SALOM, an Egyptian National, born August 30, 1932, in

Egypt.

REMBERT CAVEN ALLEY, JR.,

Illinois,

was interviewed by

NACHTSHEIM on March 28, 1961, and furnished the following

information:

From July 3, 1959, until July 19, 1960, he was engaged

in travelling and sightseeing in Europe.

During

the same period

he was employed for several months by Danish architectural firms in

Copenhagen, Denmark. He furnished the following account of these

(travels:

SEO

CONFIDENTAL 151-1020-11

• DocId: 32327340 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote) .

DATE: 11-11-2017

SECRET

CG 151-206

ALLEY stated that he had no permanent travel companion

during this period of travel although occasionally he would be

with someone for a day or a few hours at a time.

whenever possible at youth hostels and accomplished this travel at

an expenditure of approximately $2,000 plus whatever he had earned

while employed at Copenhagen.

ALLEY advised that while in Copenhagen, Denmark, in

September or October, 1959, he metta person whose first name was

recalled hearing later_that/LADISLAY had been elevated to thes

position of (translator.

ALLEY described LADISLAYS FOILOUS:

30pto 35

Height

Weight

Build

Hair

190 to 200

Stocky

Light brown, balding

and combed straight

back

Characteristics

Marital Status

Wears glasses

Married

ALLEY said that each Thursday night in Copenhagen

there was

a social gathering at the pavilion on the canal and

the main street of Copenhagen.

He was not aware of the sponsors

of these functions but described them as the place where American

and foreign students and others came to meet Danish girls.

tha)

He recalled that it was at one of these functions

that he was introduced to LADISLAV. He could not recali(5]

exactly the circumstances surrounding his first meeting and felt that

he might have been sitting with some of his

acqua in tances when

(5)LADISLAV approached them with the introduction following.

ALLEY stated that he had heard of this Soviet individual

prior to the fistmeeting and had also heard that (LADISLAV) was aLS

very friendly individual who associated frequently with the

American students.

ALLEY said that he had also met MARVIN

He said it was possible also that MARTIN KANTOR had

introduced him to LADISLAV on the occasion of their first (5]

meeting.

ALLEY added that he felt KANTOR associated with

LADISLAVso as to practice speaking Russian.

He did not

feel (3J

that KANTOR was sympathetic to the Communist form of

SECRED

-5-

DooId: 32327340

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

CG 151-206

government but only

that he felt a strong tie to Russia because

of his ancestry.

ALLEY said that he met LADISLAy between six and ten (3]

times following the first meeting and between September and

October, 1959, and January, 1960. He believed most of these meetings

were in either September or October, 1959, and November, 1959

ALLEY also believed that most of these meetings with LADISLAV ES

were at the same pavilion on Thursday nights.. He recalled that there

were usually others present on the occasions of these meetings

but stated that on one occasion he and LADISLAY had

attended a [S

ALLEY stated that in his opinion LADISLAY'S primary ES.

interest was in promoting himself in the Russian dipTomatic (S-

service and his association with Americans and American students

to practice English conversation,

He said he had never engaged

in any discussion of political matters or political theory with

(ST LLADISLAV.CA

ALLEY recalled that they had discussed their respective

been one of the original Russian revolutionists and that he was(S

at that time dring of

author TOLSTOY. C

Cancer and living on the farm of the Russian (S]

said that(LADISLAVwas a very friendly individual, (S]

good conversationalist and excellent company.

ertainly did not suspect that LADISLAy had any oth said he

purpose than to converse in English and to seek companionship. (

3(u)

ALLEY said that to the best of his recollection

LADISLAV had never

asked him anyy questions concerning his workLS.

reiterated that he felt LADISLAV'S interestS.

if it could be described as such, in him was merely for

onversation and companionship.

ALLEY has not heard from

CSTADISIAN since his return to the United States but said he woulc

feel honored if he should hear from LADISLAV MES

REMBERT CAVEN ALLEY, JR.,

1415 Hudson Avenue, Chicago,

was recontacted by SAS ADAMS and NACHTSHEIM on June 6, 1961,

and firnished the following information:

ALLEY had tried to, recall the circumstances

surround-

ing his first meeting with the individual he knew as /LADISLAV <S]

(phonetic)

employee of the Soviet Embassy at Copenhagen, L SJ

Denmark.

He said that to the best of

-6-

SECRETO

recodlection he was (

7)U)

DocId: 32327340 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the Tehn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44-US€-2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

CG 151-206

introduced to LADISLAWby one of the persons whom he had met at (S

Copenhagen.

He could not be definite but was reasonably sure that

MARVIN KANTOR waS

the person who arranged this introduction.

ALLEY was sure that his first meeting with (LADISLAV occurred at CS.

the Thursday night social gathering held at the pavilion

main street of Copenhagen in September or October, 1959:

ALLEY explained that the reason that 'he could not be

mose definite regarding the date of the first meeting with[LADISLAv (S

Thursday night during his stay in Copenhagen.

probably

Concerning MARVIN KANTOR, ALLEY said that he had

met KANTOR in the pavilion in Copenhagen.

KANTOR, a

nited States citizen who is of Russian ancestry nad expresse

interest in LADISLAV as it afforded KANTOR an opportunity tols.

developphis proficiency in speaking the Russian language.

ALLEY said that at no time had he ever heard KANTOR discuss

politics with(LADISLAV nor had he detected any indication that (S

KANTOR might be sympathetic toward the Soviet form of government.

ALLEY said he had heard of LADISLAV prior to theirlS

first meeting.

le said that he wanted to meet LADISLAV and [s]

explained that his only motivation in this respect was

curiosity.

He

said he just wanted to be able to say "that he hadnes

*metra Russian"J

ALLEY was asked whether all subsequent meetings occurred

in the pavilion.

To this he replied that on only one occasion

that he could recall had LADISLAV called him by telephone.

He CST

said that on that occasion LADISLAV had requested that ALLEY CS.

accompany him to a movie that evening.

ALLEY said that later

(5) that evening he met LADISLAVand accompanted him to the movies Of;

ALLEY said he believed all other meetings occurred at

the pavilion.

He

recalled that on one other occasion, MARVIN

KANIOR, LADISLAV, two or three other individuals whose names CS

he cannot recall,

and himself had gone

following the social at the pavilion.

Reflecting over

theoperiod of

his association with

(LADISLAV?

ALLEY said that he

felt that (LADISLAV appeared to belS

more interested in him at their first few meetings. He said

that as evidence of such interest, LADISLAV had given him books[S]

regarding architecture as well as a couple Russian novels.

said he was not aware.

other persons who had been similarly

treated by (LADISLAV.

-7-

SECRET

DooId: 32327340 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET,

CG 151-206

appear quite as friendly or interested in him.

ALLEY said that

here was a long period of time between the last two or thre

imes when he met LADISLAVat the pavilion. (LADISLAV had 5-

explained that his work in/the Embassy was consuming much more CS_

of his time than previously, which allowed him less

time to

participate in the Thursday night social affair.

purpose of seeing what he could learn. He observed that if such

was the

case CADISLAV must have become discouraged and decided [S

that he was wasting his time, sty

to this association.

He said that he now realizes that (LADISLAV (SJ,

might have regarded

this association in an entirely different

manner.

- 8÷-

271012

SEGRET

• DocId: 32327340

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-323 (Rey. Í1-29-61)

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Che 5, 196117019

POD MENTAL

Title

MARVIN KANTOR

• Character

Reference

UNITED STATES

INFORMATION AGENCY

Report of Special Agent

HAROLD R. EVANS, dated and

captioned as above, at Chicago.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

information in the past.

Chicago I-l is another government agency which

conducts intelligence investigations.

Chicago I-2 is a confidential source abroad. 10)

CORIFIDENIAL

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

SECKE

- 9

151-1020-11

¡ DocId: 32327340

Page 10

---

