# docid-32392211

## Page 1

• Date: 03/01/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

-----------=--==

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

AGENCY : CIA

F. Kennedy

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10413-10054

assassination Records

RECORD SERIES : JFK

Collection Act of 1992

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

144 USC 2107 Notel .

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Case#:NU 53320 Date:

06-27-2017

---

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE: PROJECT LIFEAT RENEWAL

DATE

: 07/01/1964

PAGES : 12

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION

LIFEAT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/04

COMMENTS : JFK-RH08: F152: 20040324-1064324

DRIGINAL DOLS ARE

THEMOFAX.

JAs (NaCT)

84|26|05

[R) - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10413-10054

HH 53320

DooId: 32392211

Page

1

---

## Page 2

FATE NINEAT RINGAT

The everall eblectire of Frotect Liftirs For In, Its vourteenth year

kurdul bergece and aprasianal prosen leviet on Muriee Olity Station

by the curcent fusated Mission Drectie (Pil an vall as specifie target-

oppornmity isment inn Handquarter eat atter stations.

nue and aparational surport date as selected torpete, some paaltiva

Intellige to produad dr a by produet of this operation.

nute car

abastlugg ur Holect LITAT are By Fellers

i provide in agut nut of expertenced Itnenan and centratuen vitbir

the testine telephore some capable at mitaterily whartag tops on

ant targas telephate la Maxien Gity a locarat to tia Statiss or Head

quartets

Is puppida a tenes of romartranded, : lendartico baschossed with

traloed basture kopers in sere e tamai remninghistening postu

In the tapa sinaed ty the Mincy linemas ood contraten.

to balde for the mesar and mintenan af long-tius career agent

"ourside" that care ortseer.

Cho:

To prides stable of todd tramiatey/trancerto caprole of

translatu and treeriting the reade of sar "tate racelrad fron the

"SAK tang a3 1921 as astertal

for other velseted meation programsa

3). An in the part, drone alectiven sen and til. be achtaved by the

continusd openititond explitarion ut thr mistiar TrET lineman, cartral-

ma tranerther /trnatatori, babatoses ané bunchouse turperi

These giove

sited in tortioea 470 deposed aith and reposer the partial Malialtment

ut tos tolidun 9uota0a0 at the querent Related Minion Directiva, au apeserod

See loo la

substet lisa do:

Section dy: Subesenten ha

Iosity 1

Section g

Subsection do

Section a, Subsectien i

dated 22 septenher 195%, the early minenance, an apport of canger agent

NH 53320

DocId:32392211 Page 2

---

## Page 3

David to Hastad,

the outaide LiPIT car effort, trumerly mintained unter

Profit Lungs, which to nor being tominated), ta heredth being integrated

into the then? Prodects

Tain action, bopefully, Mill doorease. the admints-

trativo burden involved in the management at the projecta uni mili gie a

more maliasis pen of the expanes tuvalved in Lault, sence sep oi

Wilstro'd activities ane atrectly malted to thia project.

2)

gerational dechenieu & Project LthAt has undergone one wajor oparational

things airing tas past roar.

In Into 196s Poleet LAP lost its Prevloun

necess to the telephone tawny central exchanger (contrain) die to the

company's tacreased control at personel covetenta thin and betrean there

cembrate.

An a dtreat tont of this tous ot secess, LIBAT wat forced to

20:25094 101

draini

metrot of tappier in atret detrimetion boxes, a

Le not anly tert

hocury but which alan Itnita the artent et

posible corerig.

Therefore in early I9st, the Mation took steys to spat and

misess a nea asent copablo ot mylaine scras to the cartrals under the toles

poone coming'& new syston of terronel cootrol. Antar discuing tour

potential sanditates, th flith endidate ma naratud in ma 9th after cues

Pil austriant asid homoment by turbur a

my late 1954e the new accous agoat

In the centrala, Lintil de, had tacon wont peorcian in hta operation "tep"

senigments: Thus tinar is sor again abla to atablinh its taps on tas tale

pions carate, thin has sreatly enhenced the sage and erflodory of this

eneration A detailed recotl enroin tha onentlont and technient magedusta

brad at mesent by hit in entabilacing thus ta focanted to fonduarters ae

EVAN 24307

dated 29 Septenber 19d end to uraliablo chorid fumber technical

detatie be

femiral,

31 Personnel es

Fayne Co DUBAND (P)/LUTCON 24 (901-119525)

In Novenher 1964, Feyne & DAWN, its nestatact, depurted Mexteo

inith his vitas a kilik statred tho had bean trunermot POs fron this

Statione ¡Prtor so this dogartun, Station sequented Mat DIAD 24s

peestonal suproval te amanded ter indude the sities partorned by FRABIND.

Its sendment to ElEan antoval to secsived in RNMX19820, dated

15 August 1964.)

DRAMAND was mplaced on 1 Movember 1964 by Livine o

eiter t saltable omary surtad irmed the dalty contact with varions:

Let hasthouse keeger and tratiertberk.

J1rsD-24 has proven to te

neat went it set harding end in cheerfully asceptud the increased

responalbity and work lload..

tro.

LIM501-39 (801 748946)

paragraph "4) was granted via Lit 20011

LiF 80D:33 (201-760676)

A two month acentton on Sablect sil tr ure as ar asistant barehouse

amate 150h, dated in 156 Regulate Me

Part II latomation ts no betrig confilati

HH 53320

DooId:32392211

Page

3

---

## Page 4

shes

IMPUD 55 (COMMELY LICAEB-1) (201-746227)

An che elfaretve 3i Secesber 196h, Mus passiveri via Heir Licti, dated

¿ January dits, for subject's iãe as a LiraAl barshoure kepar

Sto jeet

ANNY TO

# LIPELD-S (CORATLY LECRAR: (901-764763)

A FUA ettoctive N0. Deceber ify ina seeatred or Aütect via Eriz19z20;

aulad I6 Ibeenbar 1964

Red1ts1+o Pre, Fess IT IntrItion Is being

somellad and util be forturdal,

A Pul for subdeet's une as ranaletor seinuestbe vas renelted nie

MR-11995 on 21 Ray 1965-

IJFBUD4 (20L-117745)

HECA-24054, dated 6 Angart I064 forwarded the Agest Sertoe Räcond ot

subtect, top fued al estanu folin on i day 1901

tina. 14 bursan17 +201-417372)/ (201-105370)

IT LIE BHU TUNIT

to TTPDD-16 (201-222784)

no Agent Serutre Becord for LUEiTTo, iio Mas teriated de to his

LaR of Resens; Has fossareN sith IMA 26150, dated 20 a, 1965.

A dautron so attached se Anner I to "118 pneval regure, abortag all active

BERLINA JOLICION

1) Posterve tartelliganes

While LORAT de Pantsally targetes de provide KrisK ant "operationed

manson Inforantion, suns pertllio intellence to lertres an a by-protot.

Dartng the ten-noach persed from l wuly ngút thoman 30 Apola Lo5, Irojoct

LIane commibuted shully or in por tu 19 positive tuallyence reperto,

much tope sortardud to Bendquartern as Soloni

ANIS 9125

ENGE 2243

9137

9142

9157

32.21

E2494-9455

5472

9553

9543

9622

922%

9229

9345

7341

727)

8398

1: 22

us relative deemse in mmertoal postuction to in part a refloction et

tho love of urcena do tbe esnical nilenger during tea initial portion or

the projeet Jon las detellod in suitor Be asrugraph 2), but a nore

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211 Page

---

## Page 5

-it=

algraticant inatcasion of tao Incrented unprata sa the brale "pensational

namport" nature at than project.

or cabind revors (dinamouthor of mich ms bent to deadquarters) dur.

Eng the erial In thA DaNnica RepubliC 1a ParLy NEY Ides, (MEXI-3369;

MEL 3370 MAN-Y37E, MAX: 155, VERI-3371, HA MNT-3376, Bla nf 11 MAy 1965-

Stathun Masco Chir had been orally Intarael that tray Ininrue lon ta of

ment tutortit and t. part nat uned to anter question tiload by artobies

?) KUDESIL

Dartuns the ter-menth perted ander romer, the him mof parille &

staaany requistuer to pravide Whick date on the tollusing targetar

Kum one ruseat sorter Intellino, articon and anente. 9 Linen

ICES/ELET-IVEARVEST-DIZING-BinOX Installations and officers,

& 15nea

• С=

2 19.uen

PRATES Installation God offloors, 5 11non she LINWAr/LIUNEN "hot"

lestallazion

PCH louderya

7 lines

Spriial Beadgunrters Inquests, RIAFFY NUErSE routstay and targeta al

опоссисту. & tes

"Chave

real produced supre tastely ly: paro as "uke" for the Interested casa

Ints toted wat ansari lepit the Perualin la coverage during

the inftlat purtlos el the proja i rear

does irvelten the muber cî paces d: tranechinciona do ude Lianvox line, thiab

de traueribel dally by Frogsut blad,

D' RISTIgILOS tRIM LIFIAl coverage by are of oparational intorest follow.

& INVESICK

Former statOr 88684

possibly in contact with sarlet

HubEany: 120-1505 44

(211-133312)

Home telophone of KoH Realdent

201-40179

Hone telephore di knert Rel afitcer (a01-n9r122)

Hone

talephona of kant HiRl of lier (801-151:130)

fo.

Hows tarphon of mispect KiR. toices (24-411-73501)

Teen at touched thieren in: sark, /DNi, yod 0J84035

egalajan os iFlito do narta.*

wir snoon di aftider (201 753976)

Parget at marctal interust,

LE ARRY MODES

Home/oftsur colephoue of knowe it's.oftirer (29,-)3E1391

un this aras, the lter coverage rataly provider tutoration concess.

the contacts and antivitias a tis ler it initialo

The futierested

HH 53320

DooId: 32392211

Page 5

---

## Page 6

→ he

is thanor and antivialed of the tergota

Us still interest ta

then errerage of the sut jost of

LARiAn is at present the outy major Station rivet

coring thin target interirair and the majority of tha tafarition sloh

har bexu developed on the imvinust has originrei nita LInzat.

Flor

knowleded fren LifeAt ni thie intriiual": rocent travai to PrInts encbled

ODENVY to tanate and interrogan hial.

I sidition, the saverage of one of

tae abra nosed surtat intelligence offices ne mintolzed In Lipport of i

soninie ro-patry of the tanger fos purposes of installing sechranet:

PIRONEN

5 Ine, la addition to the LIFEAT/LIONeN techacel installatima

die.

Exte talepos a HRITI, FIRMN intolligere alflee, ta apport:

a tao Mod eperation (201 534294).

Do Hono felophono of PERMIEN NESPINN agent (201-336474).

Hous tehoptone of alove friend of Aulta family, partienteris in suppor

D the ANSIT a operatiar (201-3579491 for the raineat of snarE?

tuna telepzione of close fetand of AlQiACk:1 (201-217134).

LORNI /LICHEN technical upemtia.

Troughout. stold pertud, the until romes thist of the ceration. linked

with the moron couras

the telenhone is the ate ubtee, custhmad

peerine ansarcianal

information coverior the activities in the tarter office

aper yricold,:

He this attire com persis tatellin

SUBMEN, RH IN IN HE PINE TEA

exrelient herd in the vera lay and couleleen of ta spartin si

SEEN TUiTA

+5 Nta 444817599

agent provided informanton of misistant value terun the cluto d she

take mgma cabled to Helperters alnos datty,

nuac attleer far tAd AHLD aparation,

Is so wittina as the Lot produce lo sate ass, the senior traderer"

Tenan i titant it wrote?

ARon openation a naccooniul daception speration a for gore thes too

gera abutbet Phrenin mas ertelnall pritiined vous bhe dariuestary pañortalo

an Apr-la 190%

InPoil lan contraved tu be tai main lureg of tatariiida wed

in mis depeation, whach her bad inporter, :x4,5ttE.

efterta lu the tarent

+ 13210 operatIor: useful D.

pertaliar in tr dors to the appoultin for gret, des And operation,

mate of mit md me mat It prusto, si alert li" maliation of the

13 SAMArY, the LIPERT

Are tus Bise tie and vetten to seth lets

He linention on

Tital io. balan

trange whenh the Famite

53320

DocId: 32392211 Page 6

---

## Page 7

ESKS

6 11000 - HEBA LoveL PEN Londere, athjecte ot

201-642557

801-067715

200-536580

do

P04-743389

201-745927

my 25010, 17 Hanu 1965

In adultson is unlong the miority of the smitin imetagene royame

bandonity toulad to sopport the ration's or ruetration program and to

manitor thr setittien no vandous righ ime lt mnettonate

of spotlar

meet me the menerge of tablect of 201047716, 4r 16: 061.150l9

tarting full members

th+

ate and date if & Sty isaderanty Gratalia

Fungiod asalaat the ten antator le baund largely us tori; lorrationi

Mall an the rent reartion to ur rentiai, Monily, the coverage of

Sates of unh-assau, dated iT March 196, Mar intituted In street support

of the recrattent pocation targered usatant Sabjrct, Flunted for late

May 1935s

mr hens telephotar of

ot. 8

ALch leaders at the roqueut at obait, wahjeets

tro.

2011090648

201-0019534

sitior but writtens

Boss so evaletton et sle tatoriatin racolved frei

man saverse, thin airle femin thut in to ran valible and nary uneral

Moles a Amoresa lommato nho are in contas: vith tnatriduale on stan

Is poorttes i9 Mite trustichina do sheir activities .

indee

haus teleptons of the BUX Intalilemen taras fartient (201-279290)

(BRUORN)

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211 Page 7

is .

---

## Page 8

sili

IR7T-11 19944579

In the Mitt reca,

o' the artivities

at too weddine of the officisi

nurT instalation in

Matino=

En I July 1964 tho

en Serenber 195k, Festont Liabld continued to be

= mollious sours of intorstion on the accluttles of in offleem of the

LEISt Inaulation mi poulder Idenchtlestius of way of tris Hardoan

nonete.

In Farry 1905, the IlaVOY Project andand the curerue of this

Lines hoey tit tally

to URANA.

DARGES DE OPPORTE

& Itaєи

To most tacontact of shich are?

FNCON-I7? (Spacial ATAFFY/RUDESK sere.

Die

Sus inst o& MaX 25965y 29 APTIl ISTS (ZROFFY/RIDESE)

5 sorest of mortanity liues

Das di the "argui al appormity lncs d Intilatid in ar ertort, so

STING LEONE DID STIN S

luis coverage

attomled so alactartl tennou af

artisten to the ornaltire tray a fica,

The LIVEAL eNTEraRE Si

at as the Stations ertnelial

This +1906-0564044 E01

blackmatt affit

Exo

FLOREN

Ve mutiona secardone thrushon no part projent year, talentoas

compat crens, paraged li smiring tires diatrtbunion boxer in conjanation

Its fu canary uneradata proira has imated amas surred by

Ta severa s these 11 1ne090

ife this safer: sare t tent

Smelanes WISTEr nd de in 14lr men sile to nome all traced si

Artime and/er testos

tage toph do sno triopion on dis rule verti an recora thele

Hm, 8v0141 10 AlL faves

• +715 804995)

Althaugh this with

Itanes were nine a fascial i for

13e, jula advance thing of telephone

HH.

53320

DocId: 32392211

Page

---

## Page 9

4 741*

Mutara Prestana utiluers

Tho ODENVY

"Hy

ortivo tranélate the rae

copy at the Matsand trascripto.

FAN ALERY COSABINATION

No Insenzó ey enardlestion a mexulred ir Faster LIPEIT.

No PLANS

Tse anidos pinan so contras tulo mlos estacat balle aunaararive or

operatimal chatre (sep thoes nited. i Fearand Bal Tur che anaring

Entrena nithout rodily onte "lue jorbou the assisty si tin niticiones

ot the unales

1)

Hoe shie nor maject yores for irt llen mes despond for hin perlad

1, tuly Eseù thronet su Fune 1065 1

si autent el 144

of thia enioans,

Apesar 17,000 Mal No Socia bYd MUy 1050 de 9011:2my the

read silot er clect pan muevad to: tite pena perted for an atsunt ni

315s300.

de too snaut, acuinat sy 1f ese sal le aportad by 1. Jay 1905.

Thus, the tutel anant exponta turle dar ant fiduter Juar Par tie ovejalt

Pacto the pirt Fragent vear, the

Fe Stacion

ais der tatives+95 90712

Fat mante te 14a

sre 14145 15-28

AT.

Final de mauric for the remena oi

tut les manch 30 tuna ayer, for tho anowat

Moation Meder fity had poetasly prograned Protoct Itralr lor

0stta,00s 1s the de 1966 aden mean. An parthe Hondenartis coment

Lase afficet

The sentan ai the esmons riasted to

PArage KI:

17N574440

175488

HH

53320

DocId: 32392211

Page

9

---

## Page 10

pas 1 to a a une 20i154o per tales)

Do

dio.

Fiold Agaote:

(Finelpel Matioan agent ros opration)

11 trange,

• ISNATI

(Eindhousa Hoopan)

Ben Olga A, INFINik, iontran ugsat abora)

baaacus kreper)

En Lot o

be andrine borget!

51420159

waiterent beretone keeper aul traciserlier,

SISon 24

6X5012:76

barehone Kasper)

MF00D: 34

(mantralian)

In rain.55

Coaceticuse krogre)

Lumin-la (tracalator)

Agent in be recraltud an sestional traucetor

Chetsten Toms (by locel inmirenestiona month*e

salaryl and strta thura bosesury

Basshouse amandas 8

Rost Fatex I fuelt 98

Rent Annes I7 2UEKI-75)

Font Asmax V (MISAT-96)

Runt AnGet VA (MET 0U)

fent fierex VII (MOCi-S)

Kwok

LIVER/GIVERY RALAY TOGE 'MOI-39)

Allovenes tut tental/ent illy inoruare

Lord minise replaces forst, viro, murates.

53320

DocId: 32392211

Page

10

FY 1966

13,615

5.900

Sp00

3-600

5,500

3, 800

2, 000

35650

32000

2, 800

8y:500

1,400

2,000

to 250

3, 200

2y 020

3,500

1,500

2,400

1, 600

3, 000

2.000

3,000

3, Coo

Ly 000

30800

151000

y1000

72, 000

---

## Page 11

racindon parmant to agenty for ves ef

poN on dally aperatitori buuresi..

Replitement vortale for IV 2539

50a

3,505

500

400

400

500'

500

1-00

Has of men duis par

Milease (ottletal) potd to zuysisres

Marleness admisletrative arperige:

MaNso hose lear faltatbro. 1 February 1955

must operatloral travel

misubtrannoys sparations erpentee

Inchuesa acri,laguncy fured, loss at rental depositte

bribed, storage act loving experime

2,600

450

FOTAL,

407, 900 568.

To PERATEY CONLITIONS

23REE

In the uneat of elvil almoster ear arclution of coulete or mierced

mentality mn thu surt dir the host goreminat it la bettered that regular

operatical coutses could he moutated itib the besive asanta vita esta

A) In tha sort multiely ornt a the estatulat el a rentar homilie to

ottors, linted but construed contant com irrably be natatained with the .

misun operation snote It ta ballers. t.. Incht would under the

contime describes shori, be abso to contic la operate anutest eurent on

Don tangere.

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211 Page 11

---

## Page 12

OLgE

mAn (tsptech for eufli

NH 53320 DocId: 32392211

---

## Page 13

197 14

SAMANT SO DEFATEL DUTIES DE LEGAL ARDENE.

nard M whatst • in the sutride LIPfal case cifical, catere etert

Waste lu paimary drotus aro en tallony brerall euperatason of tar

installatin tar marting, ad bag armitro goration of the mint dad

murlor thuanacal und matstenano: proser inharent in a techna- a profact es

•ia manitado, barius obe firet sicion connuntastity son tha engedliars

et appratnataly (7c.0eo de do Due year an was ay the anourialility for

the Stallm nare afficer, the ousiali responiblity for the dey to day atont

Ins involved earin raring agent acetitigh tor

Pape and shane-

servon as thn Mendean srinius arest for this Projocto

Subjart's laur

metions are astating VISIt & my lactulletion pianing, coolination ot

tan tarta lation mith the urant centralnue and lueen and sentine as a

spotter and curtact phanet into ine seleptose eopusy.

mport sorring subjacts pacit duller and estivitan Imalrad da top

Installerton was forarded to Prudeaut.mes in Hott-24399s datod 29 Septenber 196h

and In aulable should tither explan too be daetred.

57

ESTs 1, 37, 25, 29, 55: SE 24, 113, B, 12, ?e Iu, S, Il, to 15 si B28ei

heres troper The rust impurtay ditio of the above mintionel barrhoure

arepara, sho van this traject's y commented barphoasmo, noe those relating

Tota tacluder toe minter le of the "dover" df the baschange (1n

it savas a finaly ranidence) utin anly truentians of thy lometance area

for the pendenon of telephone coman wra cried, and shen madders calamlay

there tren in wimpeeting the tur routin lines en the betahoure unth unropri

ALe EATIN? asset tas "out buck or retory the unp. The minor sarricing of the

matumar so the copsgtas or resto, ana th leantag of these marle to lived zA,

VISIBE, de the case offlett, an importent: but secostury telli.

Imprintoro Inniombaro - Ins staniss sis und as the Lovelt eia to trans-

faith the eruption of

We capability is toulate Freak, luse, an lust and in Presenis calied

spoo to analot other Station aravitiara, jica is amalaing treerip loce ot

morded sentes tabaleriage and tus tons ritnts li anitaler fm moregager place

14085 A.

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Date: 01/24/00

Page: 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10413-10054

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

CIA

FROM

TO:

TITLE :

PROJECT LIFEAT RENEWAL

DATE : 00/00/

PAGES : 12

SUBJECTS : LIFEAT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :: 08/21/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

: JFK-RH08:F152 1998.08.21.08:18:06:090129:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

H4 53320

DooId: 32392211 Page 14

---

## Page 15

MARASI

"Tery 64-

Three APRIL 65

7) The ovorall ubjactive of Proge

1966

i now In lin' fourteenth year of

datance, la to provido for a e

Ateral tolerbone top noche-

o capatle of lending the atr

Iming support necnasary to covar

tvidual targeta ma apartional programa levlad on Harico City Station

by tho durrart Rosetod Mario Diroative (RIDi an vall as specific tergot

of opporturdty requarte fros Headliartere and other stuttorn.

Whils

Protect LIViAz primarils furillo stanalis requirouents to provido viable

KUDEsk and operailunal mupport data on solected tarzeto; some posttive

Intell Bee 1 producod an a by product of this operation.

3l To ennileir ablectirag or Project LESAl are an followa

a. to provido an asont not of exportenced itnema and centrateen vither

the Hadies talenhone amany capable of alaterily platoe tape on

nor tatBot, tolophone 111 Maddeo C1i3 l Intoret ti tha Station or, Head.

quarters

-Do to provido o serlao of rompertmented, :landertart hasslonses ith

trained bachoven despera to servo a tomini recandle laterine posta

to provide for the nuppset, and maintendhut of long-ilte career agent

"outaide" LIFEAT inar officer.

do To provide a itable or talent trama

ITiNAT taRL un vall an autartel for otber dalected itatlor pesstaçs..

An in the past, thess oùjectivert cos and vill be echlovad by tho

continued operational explattation ul the oxiutins HIPBAT Ilaces, eststel

nas, travertber/tracislatong, basallousat and barntunes turpero. Tress above

eited ostentives arn in conorance vich and rejensent the partial faltillment

of the foliontas anatione st tus cuprant Melalad Mienlos Uractive, sa approved

fox Matico Elty Stations

sectio, i,

Subaset lor ba

Priority B

Sectian 1,

SubroctIon a.

Sestlon 2, Siagaction b,

CHANGES

Adstalgerativa

As per inadeMAllers agonitoss contalood in 1HH 12901,

iatod l september 1964, the suri,

minterancs, and stryport of cárent asent

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211 Page 15

---

## Page 16

Amex Il

SEAMARY OF OPEATIONAI DOTTEST OF LIESAR PERS

ONNEL

11 DAVIA N, MONEST, AS the butalia LIFFAI Cas

wastedla prinary dutten aro sa tollous!

officer, caress agent

interlatlos, too routing, and tap sacu

paritaion of tap

couple trentond and maintenaice probl

attois of the was and

thie wagnitudes boarlag the firet mher

mtability: for the expend

14t5 tochnical piglet of

prostitaly 15,000 of KUSARX/UPEAT pr

nts an the accountability tory

piertys

ant boaring, torother with

the statiod case officer, the ovorall perponniblilty for the dayato day asect

bandline for el ltrilt arents.

2) IDETO 2) " In addicion to lla dattes as a i

bears the reaponathialty for dally coract with

barnhousa keeper, LIFEUD 2b

1 meter This unvolves only woming dest

six

base are bermire and to

latlon pickups the reportine of wat saint

mostlas for tape and then

and in general rolloving witares asdache

aha, 11o0 vork Is nocenar

LIFEAT 108 VOrk.:

ate officar or buch routinal

3) treBial a la adastion to hio duttes is

top Inital

tIre VILBTED La tap. lost

the LIFEAT centralman and 11

potter aid contact channel into the telephone do

Subjoot 'a safor

98; coordination of

and serving an a !

4) LIRSU2

mport corring

EM 3 (110016) and LIPBUD:32 (centrelsan) = A dotatto

Installat one

motee duties and act!

an involved In tap

andquarters.

ind le avati

monia turther arplanacion

4799, dated 29 Seytenber 1964

5) LORDe 1, J1j 351-29, 551

36, 2t

DONED!

most

ot the

manced

+086

•MOBt:

100 th

tho

10, 5211, and 15m dese

ve mentloned barehbuse

are taste

of the

Fy dalertig

120. 14

nricing of the

na of theso tonly to LIPID 24,

ondary ter

WISe on the case officer tortois

6) Cargi k,

is O18n I PARFINIS

latod and *

bed Into buglida by thi

certber tito Spanion

¿with the exuepston or

the capabilty to tranalate Pranst, Dutcl

• in ye, the men no he

upon to austat other Station activities,

and verown and la troprently called

Truch is prosthing traineriptions of

recorded dent debrterines ond the trans, ictost ex artsoles for nompaper alace

NH 53320

DooId: 32392211

Page 16

---

## Page 17

TRANSY

Carol K

01gO

Lunesia:

Contri

LIFBUD-

Port

3412-19

14 53320

DoId: 32392211

Page

LISUD 24

LEir (tapices for early 1963)

IRFAND 36

---

## Page 18

= 2.

David M. WISTED, the outaide LIPEAT Case OffICer, (formerly maintalnod under

Project LINOG, which in now baing terminated), is herewith being integrated

Into the LIPEAI Project.

This action, hopefully, will decrease the adminis-

trative burden Involved in the management of two projects and vill give a

nore reallatic picture of the expenses involved in LIPEAT, since 90% of

WILSTED' a activitles are directly relatal to this project.

2; Operational Mochaniem - Project LIFEAl has undergone one major operational

change during the past year. In Inte 1963, Project WIPEAT lost 1tB provious

assass to the telephoro company central exchanger (centralm) due to the

coupany& Increased control of personnel novements within and between these

centrals.. As a direct result of this loss of access, LIFEAT vas forced to

Ivant to Its orladnal method of tapping in street distribution boxes, a

method which is not only lees socure but which aldo llaits the extent of

possible coterago. Thergiore In early 1964, the Station took steps to spot and

astes8 a new agent capable of providing accens to the centrale under the telo.

phone company's nou system of personnel control. After discarding Pour

potential candidates, the fifth candidate vas rocruitod In mid-1964 after caro

Pul assessment and devalopoent by LIPBUD-1. By late 1964, the new access agent

In the centrala, LINBUD-32, beid become most profialent in his oporational "tap"

assigments. Thus LliBAT 18 noY again able to establlah 1ts taps in the talo

phone centrals, which has greatly enhanced the scope and elf1clency of this

operation. A detailed report soundne the maratlonal and technical procaturas

Maed at present by LIPBAT in establiching tape uns torranded to hondquarters as

HVMA-24392, dnted 29 Sontember

1964 and la available should further technical

dotalla bo destrod.

3) Personnal -

Wayne C. DRABAND (P)/LIPEUD-24 (201-119525)

In November 1964, Hayne C. DRABAll), WILSTED's assiatet, departed Mexico

with his wife, & KUBAPK staffer to had been tranaferred PCS fron this

StatIon, (Prior to this departure, Station requested that LIPBUD-24'e

oporational approval be mended t8 Include the dutles performed by DRABAND.

This anendnent to LIPEUD-24'8 approval vas received in HMMI-12520, dated

13 August 1964) DRABAND was relaced on 1 November 1964 by LIPBUD-24, who

after a sultable overlap perlod, issumed the dally contact with various

LilitAl basehouse keepers and transitivere, LIFEUD-24 has proven to be

post adept at agent handling and luis cheerfully accepted the Increased

responsibility and vort load.

b. LINEUD-32 (201-748946)

Me Operational Approval for the uBe Il! LIFEUD-32 (seo Section B. CHANGES,

aragraph 2) Has grantod via DKR-28611, dated 17 June 1964.

C.

LIN'EVD-33 (201-760676)

A tro-month artension on Subject' ?8l laP uBe as an assistant basehouse

Part, II Information 1s son being compillod.

HH 53320 DocId: 32392211 Page

18

---

## Page 19

nin!

C 120 6

3hs

Ver

S2Lii

HH 53320 DocId:32392211 Page 19

10.a0

JONARTO

Jer?

---

## Page 20

d. LIPEID-35 (POrTeNLY LICRAB-1) (201-740227)

LIPEUD-55 (foraerly IXCRAD-à)

souptled and vill be torvarded.

ocelted on Subject vis humi-iseeo

2UR-11995 on 21 Hay 1965

8 LIPET 4: (201-137743)

15370)

baschrase

B Nện (10 0 106)

Co

1)

novide Kunesk and. operettone

Ligence in dertved a

by produ

posittve Intellizer

wich

contributed

corvard

HNI-9226

rate rele

the Ios

the.

4: 11:30.

hange

Lor

pettectton

ot

L portion

НИ 53320

DocId: 32392211 Page

20

---

## Page 21

-lia

tart tre out to prose to one ephante on the

baste operations

nature of this project.

station Modeo Gity has been orally Intorned that this intoruation ves ofi

cond interest and in pert vas need to never quartione relded by OPtOGI

KUDESX

it he talent to morida

river, the tirRa? broject nilplied a

it to provide KUpIk date on the tallowing targoti

soviet Intelligence officer and agents. 9 Zines

c. i

ser1ean Commist Group la Nextoo (Acal Cons requeste) - 2 1inon

d.

PERIMEN tostallation and offloers.

5 Ines. and ITFPAT/LIOMEN "hot.

1nista12

cader::: 7 11009

Spectal Head

quartere requests, 250A24%/

KuDask requeste, and targete of

прокси

Doi

When processed by the LEPRAs and related transcribero/translatore,

roele produced appraduately 0,1603

eges uf, "take" for hue laterested ca

Thie fores ves andased duepite the roduction in coverage during

the tntttal portion of the project,

is noted; in CHANGES aboye, and

dose taclude the gomber of paste of tiranecitestone of one tranvor line, intoh.

1s transcribed dally by Projaut LIRAs

all onese of the tapit cover

nee by nure of operational, laterest follows

SOV LET

52, 50

21-108, able in contact mies foret

Sartot slogal, (221-153322)

vident 1201-10179h

Kus officer. (201-087222)

Rome

aRu. orateer (201-144.700)

pect kGB riff

icer (201-211-758017)

poolel imorent to upsak, c/sumors, and oDeNyis forgeT

employee of orland ta contact With known our weptoer (901-753976)

Target of special intorert, 21) AM/KuDesk

Home/office telephon.

or tow tus ortloar (20 130139)

the contacto

Stulon Case Olfteer has mated ti

the laterast

LIPSAT has cont tried to provide

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211

Page 21

---

## Page 22

valueble spese tasten inso sae veravior and ectirieles of the targete

sonitored." Of particular interest in the coverage of the subject of

covering thie target intesalvely and the majority of the inforsation uhlon

PROM 5 Lipas to araltion to the LIVIAT/LION toemdeal Inetalletión

of the AN

toms telephons of alone frient of AMQUACK-I (201-217124).

sodiates

ITHRAT/LIO

technloal operstica:

broushout this partod, the 1

SAT ABY

tals 0

ith the ton:

ONE-RE O1

the teleni

118

Off,

1LV1t4B8

Parade.

titles

8:01

ostitina.

of sintficant trisresti

travet11

sWas piovidel by LIFEAr

in aditlony t

To installations provided do

escollent chock on the versity nad completitone of the mporting of

Station anset LITANIM?.

Hick tnts aentre. irgent departute frog Mexico,

NRAs cover of the tanger attices formera

requarted by LMAkTL-9 Der

anduped addition importans

The coverage y

i the known PERUMEN MISPAWN

sent provided inforuation of algal fleant

valse during the cMale Lu the

outnucas Repabile Ln carly May 1965

Dat Las

Sla month, mumaries of thie

taxo vere coblos to Headquaters ala

A an avaluation off the LIVEN Pro

the contor Ee

ve oftleer for the AMROD operation

obtained through LIFEAT in 1957-

Strice the locepttin of the AkRoD: ope

La April 1963, LIFEAT has contimied to be ete

in sarce of informatto

In the deceptton, ibich hae-had importans lit

starts in thi

country.

Tie nost rocent recitte larzet ot the Lilily operation unadul

the AnOD operation has ben the soverage a: WRIPT

...? Tuls coverage;

pertainine ar it does to the oppositton, casu

tricer tr the AMPUD operation,

bas enabled KUBARK case offloore.

keop.uy teth att

ext mento, problems and

tato of ala, and ass made it postlbin to ettert"

te +

in analuation of hie

haracter than would othorise haré beun poes bla

nimpary, the LIVkAT

operation his been and contimen to be the tealtone ri

the

information on

untch the AMhOD operation lo baned and orde

anchant ema

rough undch its remalty can be tollord tilil tarital astuation pror

evaluatod nod acted: span.

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211

Page

22

---

## Page 23

NN. 6 luva - Hish tavel PCli Inadei

to, anojaste ofe

: 201-042557

202-067016

201-335359

201-74

802-745921

to:

1M6-25610, 17 Merck 1965

In dalition to proviaine the rafority of the pundtlva Intelligenne roporta.

poted 1a Snettor e abore, the continuod LUPEAI corarase in thin arau la

bastrally destiona to rappor the Sration'a (P penetration progres and to

abaltor the satirition of vartous high loval CF Pinctionariak,. Os rpostal

Interer mu the corarase of subject of 201,067016, sto la notivaly

tizaged in dally ICHARVETT aMIUItIDA, IXPa otar emerição it thto

nas providad the inttini irtara:1od on various planani triph by high

ranking VOM nobare, the alte aid tate of a AM londrecio tralitas

achoal, ura durvad as es excallent crack on the rattir's vattour pono

tration agossta..

Tu addillon, che station'a continuina MISPAWN operation

targatod asalnet the fOl boalton 19 badod largali oa LIFPAT trifonsatlan)!

LIPEAI Intarantior aldo providos ar excullen chack di lhe offoutiverado do

mail as tho PCN roletton to tble operation. Piraily, the coverare of

Subgoot. or SMilA-2551ü, detes 1T Marsa 1965 uno taetitural ti direer suypo

of the recrutaast operation tersetel aralast subtect, slamad for late

Мат. 1065.

J50 (AO(N)

e tines

The bono telephanas os tui icM loadore at the requent ut Ondivo, nibjecta

202-090048

Đo: 902-002539

Is' notorio to thio LIFBAT soverra oi chá 1:14 Lices, the zo04l obaw?.

offiba nas ritteas

*Frua an eriuartou of ti encorariot racolved Irra

mach corarão; this ofetce tenle that 1t lo va: valvablo and siry unetei

Lande aro ebratios, particularis viti ragard ie travel in and out ofi

Medeo of Americon corindets nho aro in doster: vite individuala on vinoa

seteraga li untained. It pronties "o vitt iniciation on their ativittoe

not provent1z arallable tarough ary other scarca,"

8 11099

dio

De

ILET orrielal Installation, s velophodes

LOBARVEL aflatal tantallatto (neva oftaje)

Hone telephone at Ian otticial (201-05565.1

Hone coletione of the Barot Intellicanos Saris! Rarident (201-279229)

(BECORN)

Spectris bighilshta la this area of actedty say dil.

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211

Page 23

---

## Page 24

-7-

morgency coverage was provided on the home of BatOriN who way a KUBARK.

recruituent target.

beid continuing: source of informition

the

the orrietal iMsT tostallet lon to

Maxico.

In addition, this coverage

vasja valaable check on IMPErAL, a

Stattón agent in place in the MLET Installation.

moa 1 July 1964

project LiPsat contimed to be

lablo.

a on he does of the onlot of te

i on the

RVSET Lante

ded Identiflention of many of thetr Herdann

LLENVOY: Profoot assumed the coverage of thi

fron this Lies le still fally trenes

Projec

• LIRAMA.

he sout taper

cant of inton drai

s terret of aportunity 10m

sof the:

asty lines uninittated ta an erfoxt t

varity or

the o floo lomediatyly below LiLiN i

ponthly:

O Poltes type netirition Tale coveren"

yvanted no

ty and thur artoried es editionel angret

• of

nation to

The LiPlit coverass of

LIMERACE 9,

Hant setod

e171art0

a aftar a

SBRU

ricon inued,

that no addition

fort

woula

FORES

with the e

IPEAT bascho

cable terminal

but

mle)

ances,

inst

• to

tot

fort

Break

в venu

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211

Page

24

---

## Page 25

- yon

46:

salariAi

areori ard contreot agertes

DUTÃA He MILOTEDI (Includtas postitlo ner ralao)

(05-1), Car90r agest)

¿ral I. IISMSTSTER (traratator"

DEa A, PARPINEX (traaalator

IPBVD-JO (+7520)8405)

Flato Aeests1

'Inhai-) (Prloripel Mardean ajent tox eparationa)

IJPASUDA?

(21necas)

(LTPEID

(2100047)

A INIPKUDÀ

rasohiones koepier)

47001-6

01 8a

1o PARIITK, contrect eroat abora)

7

5oas

so koeper and trinecitter)

15

19800-24

IIi

BJD22

BaTPPREND: 35

rouar keapar)

LIPEND-57

lator)

LTEMTY-19 (tranalator)

Aganit to bo recrustos ne asdltlonal trinalator

Mixstari boou

i (by lo0al requlrenenta dua iouta' o

caiaTy) and s1Tt1

vhore nocesdkry

PHSBGNI

WIISTED HORAINE

1]oa

Rocst Arsaec IX (

Rlevst ARTOX Y (MEXT-96)

Hent Arnox VI (MYXI-80),

Rant Annex VII (MIXI-$)

HATt ANBOI VIII (NEXX-13)

Reat ADDAs II (MIXINST)

LTPEAT/JIVIRY ReLey beRi (NIXI-39)

nahoure uthlt1as1

Jouanco Iut rntal/atd 1ly 1n0r89s

Local mrahare replacenint parte, vito, rupplies,

aguspanot ropeir

HH 53320

DooId:32392211

Page 25

Hy 1556

1 13,615

6,800

5,000

3,600

,019

6,500

2,500

2,000

3,650

3,000

2, 800

2, 600

845

1,000

1,400

2, 000

2,250

3, 000

: 3, 000

2,000

3,500

1,500

2,400

600

3,

000

2,000

3,000

3,000

1,000

3,000

1,000

1,000

70,000

---

## Page 26

• 10

%

del Atanagor

a - Inaludas partient to agarte ter use o

M on daily operational tastian

MY 2539 (uned br VIUSTDs expenses for 6 montbe)

Raplacement Toblola for NU 2539

of trauma's PON

LDB0D-7%

POY

Melanca (ortiola)) peld to ZINSMEISI

47.

laspous atrintrtratita arpeases

Vishal bions luaro (allelble 1 Pabriery 1955)

WiSTED sucational allomance:

Visual operational travel

5

400

500

7, 000

450

TOTAL.

°$201,900 v.4.

J. DIERGENCY CONDILTONE

1) In the treat of civti dinardore or is ovalation ot couplato on escorced

noutrality on the part of the has coversort it to ballaved that rogular

paratlonel cartert could be wintatived, utta the scairo asante, vith arky

•thor cunnine in the exteting oot

2). In tha wont willess arent of the setentiviient be a restro hortile to:

Ontos, Lasted bit contimed sonat coust ferrably be mintained vish the

tonilan operational munate. It ln bellovei tic LIPAI Would, undor the

conditione descrived stora, be able to coctiras is oparato aralaat eurpect ot

"d".

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211 Page 26

---

## Page 27

Date: 01/24/00

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10413-10054

RECORD SERIES :

JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE :

PROJECT LIFEAT RENEWAL

DATE:

..00/00/

PAGES :

12

SUBJECTS : LIFEAT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/21/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

:. JFK-RH08: JFK-RH08:F152 1998.08.21.08:18:06:090129:

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53320

DocId:32392211

Page

27

---

## Page 28

/ Fur 64-0

o thre APOL 65

the arorall objactite of Prote

FEAT, nov in the fourteenth soort /7d%

Ing support nechisary to covar

mn Loved on Marlee City Statlor

of-opportunity requenta mos hosiguerters and other tattoos. Witle

PROTECE LIVEAI DrinarIs pulIttLe standine requiremente to provido viablo

NUDeSK and eparational support data on salested targets, some ponttive

intolligeno la produced an e by-product of this operation.

Tue corallery ublectirgy ut Projoct INFEAs are en followa

To provide an aget not of expertended Ithenan aid centralmen vithin

thn Macca telehms cemeny capable of anteer lay plartas ters on

any target telophone In Marleo City ot laterant to the flarion or, Head.

quarters.

¿Do to provido a pertea of rosartaanted, :landertire insuhondes vchi

Iraided haseboing keapore to serve a tonin recordeshtatentnoo

LOTTRA SARA CLAPRE DE TAO ITERAT LINEUT

to parrier for the suppiet and maintenand of long-tine career asant

"uuralde" STEFAT tune offlder.

Бе

receivod fron thi

INEAt caRd on vall as satertal for other palested statior proses.

3)

An to the seat, thone abjoctivon con and will be schloved by the !

sontinued operational exploitation ul the existini TPBAT ilnemen, centrel-

ser, trazucriber/trolator, beudiousor and barelues hispers. Tress above

cited oblesttred are in condorence itth anil, represent the partial ratfiliment

de the folionis nestione at tus exerent Melated Miralon directive, no approved

for Maxico City Stations

iMorsty A

Stretitis 1,

subBert 1900.

Geotton 2,

Sutaserton ba

IMority D

section 1,

Subect Lon

SHAKES

Adatalatrativa

An per handransters megantion contatued. in IAH-12901,

datod l2 Soptember. 1954,

ibe seet,

insaterancs, and support of carear agent

HH 53320

DoC10:32392211 Page 28

---

## Page 29

TO BE

SUMMARY OF DONATIONS LUMES dE LANSAS RESUNE

" offioor, carsor agent

trecallation, to routine, and too muci

trap of the way and

copius tratintoal end maleterance brobl

ernt th a tochnieal projest at

this nasaltudes beatlog toe stret ashes

accountabllity for the expenditur

•It as the accountabillty for

nd boartos; togetsos yita

tha stattoo care ostlear, the orarell re

kendlinE for RA LIPEAT As

albutty for the dar-to-day asout

2) LiPop 24 - In adaliton to hia duties as a ba

shoune keeper, Ltreudel

pears tho resposalbility for dally cameror utta sla bagelunes neupuro and cioi

Tits involves aarls worning sont noelings: for cape and trans-

latio, psck-uga, the ronortine ot vhat mintenancs ana line vork la necessary's

and in general relieving vistres ma the sweden cans officer of much routine,

3). trestol a la sodstron to bio dutter as à benabmne koopor, LIFElel aliao

do tar and out a chane

2222

sadcan principal agent for tate project. Subjeetie major

i centreloan and 11

into the telephons pout

поротє котитіпі

mojocks!

le, detten

Inerallation

Maye

and ta ayatiaoli

moold further explanad

:57.500

-14 1, 315 25, 29, 35.

I47t

", dated 29 September 1964

10) 5:9115 and 15 a Baren

ve senttoned banondure k

houses, are those relating

ge the brophouse (Ch

ons of the tunilate are

ten noconsaty dalertig

10 barationes

an untia appropr

merricing of the

carge X.

Translator"

Ibara - 14o apestab acrosrod on tha LIBBAT reele to trans

Intod and transomibed into trellon by the

*(urth the exueption or

upon to surfer other Station estinities, rich is prontains iraincriptiona ori

sonarted dront debrtarteen and the trans issant or

Artlales for nevepaper place

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211 Page

29

---

## Page 30

PRANSI

Ceirol

01.88 Fa

AP

L1aoNaI

IilraOrsaa

Cantrala

Davza M.

IsTKB-2฿

TRITD SE

NNEA

1013 10

200-22

TRẾU 9

UTEEUD-1O

gio ba4

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211 Page 30

:t 5a.

Iaur (taptoal tor oafty 190))

INCFEUS

TH EN

---

## Page 31

David M. WISTED, the outeide LIPEAT case officer, (formerly maintalned under

Profort LINOG, which in now baing terminated), la horewith being integrated

Into the LIPEAT Project.

This action, hopefully, will decrease the adminis-

trative burden involved in the management of two projects and vill five a

nore realistic picture of the expenses involved in LIFEAT, since 90% of

WILSTED's activitlos are directly relatad to this project.

2; Operational Mochaniam - Project LIFEAI has undergone one major operational

change during the past year. In late 1963, Project LIFEAT lost 1ts prevlous

secess to the telephone company central exchnnger (centrala) due to the

company's Increased control of personnel novements within and betwean theno

centrala.. As a diroct result ul this loss of accese, LIPRAT vas forced to

revert to its orlainal method of tapping in street distribution boxes, a

method which 1s not only leas socurs but whlch also lluits the axtent of

possible coverage, Thersiore In early 1964, the Station took stepe to spot and

astesa a new agent capable of providing accens to the centrals under the tolo-

phone company'& new eystea of personnel control. After discarding four

potential candidates, the fifth candidate vas recrultod in uid-1964 after caro

ful assessment and devalopment by LIfBUD-1, By late 1964, the new access agent

In the centrala, LIMEUD-32, haid become nost proficient in his operational "tap"

assigments. Thus LIFEAT 1s noN agaIn able to establish 1ts tapo in the talo

phone contrals, nich has greatly anhanced the scope and efffclency of this

operation. lA detalled report coverine the operational and technical procedures

uned at present by LIPEAr in entabliching tape van formanded to Roadquarters an

EMMA-24392, daten 22 Sortember 1964 and is avatlable ahould further technical

dotallo be desired.

3) Personnel. -

Wayne C. DRABAND (P)/LIPEUD-24 (801-119525)

Ia November 1964, Wayne C. DRABAUD, WILSTED's assiotent, departed Moxaco

with his vife, & RUBARK staffer to had been transferred PCS fron this

StatIon. (PrIor to thie departure, Station requested that LIPEUD-24'.

operational approval be asandod 18 Include the dutios performad by DRABAND.

I41s amendment to LIPEVD-Q4'& approval vas received in FMMi-12020, dated

13 August 1964) DRABANT was rinlaced on 1 November 1964 by LIFBUD-24, vho

after a sultable overlap perlod, isoned the dally contact with various

LIPRAT basehouse keepers and transitivera, LIFEUD-a4 has proven to be

nost adept at agent handling and lals cheerfully accepted the Increased

responsibility and vort load.

D. LIPEND 32 (201-748946)

mne operationa, Approval for the use Il. LIFElD 32 (see section i. CHaNGEs,

paragraph 2) Has grantod via Diii-2061!, dated 17 June 1964.

LINDVD- 33 (201-760676)

A two month extension on Subject's 31l

19P use as an assistant basehouse

Roquisite PRO

Part, II Information 1s non being confilled.

HH 53320 DocId:32392211 Page 31

---

## Page 32

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211 Page 32

---

## Page 33

do LDPEUD-35 (POTMOTTY LICRAB-I) (201-740227)

and he vito, Lupsip-36, are employea on baseboues keepera at LIPEAT

LTPEUD-55 (COTOrLY LACRAR2) (201764713)

rocesred on Subject via kNet-lyzeo,

comptled and will be forwarded.

TO KIPEND ST

APo, for Bubjectio we se translator/tradertor vos receired vie

t7-11995 on 21 kar 1965.

80IXPITO-4: (201-137765)

MAoy dated 6 misuet 1964 foruerded the Agent Service Rocord o

subject, no died ot natural causes on 12 July 1904

*ITHBUD-LA

HÄ-24₴б

- 7 80-17972124-10770

Cor LIPID-la and LTPBUD-17; basehouee keepere

anger she do Sale doc

‹ to marttal diffloultles.

LAPNID-16 (802-222786)

ho Agont Serrace A

cord fox LIFEUDIE

Co:

PETTICE.

1) Posttive Intelligen

Has LIes la boatselly targeted to pose kunbes and *operattonal

support" inforuation, tons porttive

Talligance lo dertred an a by produet.

Mallowi

HNX-9226

ME 945S

Into nalativa doc

tho

Lous dr

actans to

tho

project

year-(as

prou

Lon

hanges.

reflection of

portion

of.

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211 Page 33

---

## Page 34

- di

fentf/cent Indication of the incronted suphente on the baste *operati

apport" sature of thie project.

le adaition to the mile noted above, project LiPtAT had provided 29 pages

of cablod reporta (dissentnation of nich was left to Rendquarter») dur

ing the crield Ln the Doutnican Republic In early May 1965. (MEXI-3369,

NEXT-3370, MBXT-3572, MEXI-3373; MBx8 3574, end NET-5376, 821 of 11 Mas 1965.)

Buation Madco Gith hae been ornaly Intorned that this inormation wan of

eat interest and in part was uted to anever questione ratted by artoote.

2) KUDESX

a pertod ander review, the LiFRAl project nurilled .

tales the fate to forde came date on the ralloring raggote

and mungöct Soviet Intelligence officers and gente. - 9 lines

PlanEs tortellation nod offioere.

tristatiation

PoN-loaderk: 37 Ines:

spectal Headqu

intera roquesta, ZArkY/KIDASK requesta, and targete of

opportuntty a 11ame

Dò

rola produced approstiately o,160 segos of "peke" for ue Interestod cono

offlaere, role total nas annased duepite the reduction in covurage dürsag

the inittal portion of the project front

dons loclude the munber of pager of

1s transertbed detty by Projout DEfAT

al senitene of the taut coverate by aire of operationel interest follow

SOVIET

(0 1509) bly in contact mith herset

ASCEQUELER- I,

1ble Sortot logal, (201-433322)1

a Reside 1001 - 201791

in kua off teer: (2014087-22)

suspoct KuB vitticer: (201-241-758017)

arget of

upectel, interest to ludisk, c/tudors, and ODiNyXs, former

mployes of aflonIC in contact ith nown kor weficer (201-753976)

larget of spectal Intorant, PIAFtY/ KUDeaN.

ometoffice telc

honk of krom tis offloor (21'-132139)

Stutton Case Offteor has erated tEA. "LIFKAT hae contimied to provide

HH 53320

DooId:32392211

Page 34

---

## Page 35

maluable KopesK listent into be behavior and activition os the targeta

monitored."'

Of partieular interest ts the coverage of the subject ot

201-753976,

a former saployee of APIONTC to in now In contact with a

known 138 orficero, LIMEAt 1e at present the only mijor Stetton anset.

eovering this target intenaively and the majority of the intoriation which

hes been developed on the individut has originated with LTPEAT, PrIOt

nobledge froN LAPRAT ol tila, indivisalle recent travel to PHeRIs enebled

PRuMa 5 linou ta staltion to the LIPiAd/LION cocicel installation?

sons telephone of AMPS?, PUMaN intelligence offloes, in support

of the AMROO ol

cration (207-334294)

Or PENNESI NESPANN SESAS (901-336478),

• of thie

coverare of the telephon

of the pi

Mad provided by LIPBAT W

of sintficant unt

In additlen, the

do installations provides en

excellent chect on the vermity mid completitons of the mporting of

station annot LITANTI 2,. Vish tria.

spense.

incent departure from Macieo,

the

Ill tAt comran of the target arise formeras

requented by LitANT 9 be

The averages the known PENUMaN MISTAN

auring the crisle in the

During

ra month, omarles of thie

take vere cabled to lesdriartors snow dathy.

In an evaluation of the LIVEAl prodho 16

t036 2.93%

tne sentor Re

case oftteer fon the AlRoD operation

MECHA D. LINUSARI (P) vrotot

tion ra for more then.

years agatnal

dujurithe docrimenter

certal

obtained through

otten of tho AMOD opera!

clon

in April 1963, Litt

Des coutsmind to

see of intoraattod

uned

in this deception,

which has had luort

Socts In the.

country. The

most recant

111¢:

y operation a that

the ANHOD oper

Mrite coverage:

pertainine an 1t does to

the AMRUp operattor

ban enabled KUBARK

anto, problems en

stato of ulnd, and ras

character. that

mouls ote

operation has

Idio.

mitch the HOD operation 1e

Pete tin

heim

be th

based

valuation of al

d0. 11:

nary, the LIFEA

one x the

atoraation o

his sipel sochantee

hrough watch its irate cat be folzorch

•12

las deal sit

untton properly

evalusted and scted upon.

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211 Page

35

---

## Page 36

(1ures - Ilen lovel POl leadera, nbfeste Der

201-0N2557

01-067016

63/09

795351

201-745921

IMM-23630, 17 Mirck 1965

In nadition to prortaing the nijority of the posittvi Intelligenco reporte.

sitad 11 Sactton e abore, the continuod LIPEAI coraraga In tuls arca la

bastrally deslenod to support the hetion's (P ponetration prugras and to

poditar the ntiritios of varous tLsh Lovel IF Muncionarias,

Di apootal:

intorart vas the coverage of dubjoco os 201,067016, sia la setivol

atos providi the littlal Information on vartoan dlaamm tripe by higi

ranking PON sobera, tha alto and dato of a AM inadoranio vialisas

school, and servod as y excalient chaos on the stattue,'s various pana

tration agosto.

La nddicioo, he Station'a contimino MASPAVN operation

targotad againet the PN bookiore 1s badod InsiLi Do LIFEAl Informatton):

LIVEAI intoration dido proviigs ar arcallait check ni tbo offoutiveriono ao

vel M the FOM riaston to thie operation. Finalla, the cortario ot

subject of Meit-25610, dated 17 Maran 1965 me Latitural tin direer aupport

of the recrustaent operation tangereil natart Subject, alumnd los late!

Mar 1965.

ANTAN C

SO (ACCEN

e stnea:

Tio home teleproves of tho AcuM londere at 150 roquent uf ODEWY, subjecte

of8

1202-090648

201-002589

tarataranco to tila LIPHAT sovaraca al the 1.74

Lans, uno Local obawy.

office nes trittens:

•"Pros au srazuntton de tre inforuatlob rocalved tres

mil covaruce, thir ofrice lola tost 1t ta va: enliahle and tay usotul

coveragt la delntainad, It prortuna un vitr triczuntios on their aotivition

not prevently avallable tarovet au otber sourco.:

LALar otIsetal tratallation, 5 relephocen

LORARVEST offOtal lantallatian (neva offs,+)

die

nono teimphace of iNdet otractal (201-050/244

"ono teloptiona of the MUN Intallletnce Secriel Rontdent (201-279128)

(BUSTORN)

Sect/ts blehitante la tato area of activity dai unti

HH 53320

DocId:32392211 Page 36

---

## Page 37

-7-

Bergency soverage was provided on the hons of BaCORN who was a KBARk

recrustuent target.

Although the projected recrultuent attempt never

materlalized, the rapta initiation of this coverage agala proved the

value of LIPRAT in supportino milaterel station actions on abort notico.

In tho DiET erse, LIFEAr proved to do a contimang source of information

on the activitien of the baters of titorrietal iMEr Instellation in.

Moodeo: In eddition, thta coverase van valaable check on iMParAL, a

Stilton asent 1a place In the TALET Instellet100.

a rallablo nourco of laforustion on the cetiritios of the otticers of thei

ICHARTiSt Intellation and provided identiflestion of many of thelr Merloan

ortanta. In Jamary 1965, the LINVOY: Profect assumed the coverage of thie:

tras however;

this dadly.

by PrOJeCt LIPEAT fOX PANSAS tO LIRAMA

Poke froa. the Line le still holly transcribed

TASTE DE OPPOSINY 6 1100

the wort Lup

ant of mich arei

ITEHERADB-9.

5 targot. of. 0)

portundty Lines

oco of the "?

opportuntty tines var initiated in an estort to

marity or tofute o

that the oittes intediately belou LILIN va

pounthly engaged

tontine or palice type asbivitied Tale covere

evented no sland

rity eno tum artorded an addittonal desmos of

retton to the

INDIfICe. The LIFEAT coverage of

TEMBRACE 9, • €

san ted sember or the stationte primeixe

survertlance tou

vas Inftlatod af or a bartmata attempo on the part ar

coronat

that no additional breckn

11 effort.

ablo toruinale witch

no, bút mịch tere i

180

natances, WIsteD and ti

nose tapa bofore the

ariedas and/or tereda

but

:It Mes: 1008

sen untel such thi

contrive to plagu

sho

A PROT

Inste ises,

3 to tatt

otal

Patten

la opart:

Crow

-an early

netfän.

3974006

Lacovet®

not been 1n

to route LIFEA

•able to remove a

I trace

could verify and rocord th

vero avoided in all canei

advanc.

the deas caven b

LIFBAR bI

arning of töleption

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211

Page 37

---

## Page 38

dor Salarien

rete and coutract agentar

VIA N. SOLSTED (Isaludtra pos

ПS.13, CANOT TRON

LTE1GB-50 (17ea1a207)

Piale Apertal

tos operatione)

contrast

aditional tr

fifta va

do

1182

N81I-73)

* (*

- 95)

VI (MPX7-83)

VII (MHOCI-8)

I VIXI (MKI-13)

тих ІХ (МАХТ-97)

LUPPAT/LIVIRY HaLeY bene (MtSt-39)

& 1R1uterNCe

soce) perdere rionin parto, vire, myplice,

HH

53320

DooId

:32392211

Page

38

1 Fy 1966

( 13,615

6, 800

5, 000

600

6,500

17,809

000

---

## Page 39

di ararapor

tIaa - toaladas 1

N7. 2539 (URAd DY WILBISO)

Rayea

most restole for

NA BES'"

POY

POV

2539

Une of LDPiaTh 24'a POY

MIlANgo (oftiotal) pald to ZINSHNISH'S

" As

u andolatrative expertas

VILSTE) bone LanTe (021e1b1o 1 Pobruary 1965)

VIUSTED aducational allonence

Visual operacional travel

2,

TOTAL

• 1207, 200 0.8.

J. ENBROENCY CONDITIONE

1) In the evant os alvil algordora or dir evolatios of complete os untorçad

neutrality on the part ot the bosi sovarivett 1t to bullaved that rasiler

operational contart could be salntatined *t" fits setive asente, vith ady

milhos abençon in the aratlas cornicatiinis vyeroca.

a). In thie mont antskaly breat of the entantintons or a restao homilo to

ouros, Lastod but contemed oritact, couti iriably Do maintalaod vito the .

ponditiona deportond noore, do able to contiras lo operato agatat ciment a

perg targata.

HH 53320

DocId: 32392211 Page 39

---

