# docid-32289726

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10202-10002

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-53

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/01/1959

6

GAL, TRA, RECORDS, WHEREABOUTS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

H4T 45679

195

DocId: 32289726

Page 1

Date:

6/12/201

Released under the John

?. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NU 45679 Date:

11-16-2017

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

CG 92-373

ALEX on either 4/23 or 24/59, and that this was the fist

time he has seen him for several weeks.

He stated that

this is not particularly unusual since he very frequently

does not see tenants from month to month. He stated

that last week he was in contact with ALEX due to the

fact that ALEX renewed his molease until 4/30/60. He

cannot remember whether Mr. or Mrs. ALEX paid the rent

for March and stated that it was paid, as always, in

cash.

CHARLIE POSTL, owner, Postl's Health Club,

180 West Randolph, advised on 4/27/59, that ALEX is a

member of his club and that he was in the club on

4/24/59, but that he does not recall whether ALEX was

in town during

the latter part of February or during any time

In March.

It is noted that poStL is believed to be

senile and is not particularly cooperative. he stated

that there were no records which he could check to

determine whether ALEX was in town during March, 1959.

CG 6272-0, who is, a close personal friend of

ALEX, was in Florida fron December, 1958, until April

8, 1959, and

therefore stated that he was in no position

tọ furnish any information concerning ALEX's whereabouts

in March.

PCI RAY LONGIREE was unabletto furnish any

information regarding ALEX's whereabouts in March:

On 3/18/59, CHARLES CHRISTIANSEN, SR.,

Vice-

President, First Commercial Bank, made available

JEK Law 1Q(a)2

- 4

-

Approved:

Sent

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

92-3182-53

HH 45679 DocId: 32289726

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

CG 92-373

JEK

Law 10(a)2

It is noted that Mr.

CHRISTIANSEN and other officials of the bank have reiused

be re-examined

and the only reason they furnished them in the first

instance was due to the issuance of a subpoena in con-

nection with an investigation being conducted by Secret

Service.

It is noted that these

companies are controled'

by EDDIE VOGEL, Chicago top hoodlum, and that investigation

the companies to determine whether ALEX was in town

on 3/4/59, has not been conducted due to the fact that

it is obvious VOGEL would furnish no information in that

regard and that he would furnish details concerning con-.

tact of him by Bureau Agents.

The informant, who has furnished reliable

information in the past, advised that he observed

ALEX at the Tradewinds Restaurant on Rush Street,

Approved:

March or at any other time.

Information was received this week indicating.

that possibly. ALEX was maintaining a second residence

in the Esplenada Apartments, 900. Lake Shore Drive, but

extensive investigation this week at that address

and

at the realty company

which manages the Esplenada Apart-

ments, determined

that ALEX has never lived there.

•Contact has been made with the following

individuals at the following airlines who carry almost

all travelers of this area to Europe. This investigation

did not determine

name, from the Chicago terminals of these companies

during the past year. It is noted that Alax may have

used another name in traveling but this is not believed

- 5 -

'Sent

_M . Per.

Special Agent in Charge

100) 67

92-3182-53

NW 45679 DooId: 32289726 Page 3

---

