# docid-32310662

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System -

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10306-10071

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 109-584-3822

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: DWYER, ROBERT JAMES

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/09/1964

PAGES: 30

SUBJECTS :

SAF, MAB, MRR, MIL TRAINING, FINANCES, TRA, ACA,

PLAN, ORGANIZATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/28/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

DocId: 32310662

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colledtion Act of 1992 (44 USe 2107 Note) .

• DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-1742

(V).,

(U)1

INFORMANTS (continued)

Identity

Location

MM T-2 is MICHAEL REDMON,

Instant report,

Investigator, INS, Miami

pg:

(by request)

MM T-3 is/CIA report TDCS DB3/658 562.

classified CONFIDENTIAL,

dated 12/18/63;

s-1) Instant report,

CIA report K-3 276 793 dated 10/8/63,

d, Pg. 7, 21

classified CONFIDENTIAL

М 7-4 18 (WM. 639-5](VU)

(4)

134-238-Sub A

Instant report,

Pg.

9 ,

21,

22

MM T-5 is STANLEY SCHACHTER,

Instant report,

Customs Agent, Miami, Florida

pg.

MM T-6 is JESUS

FRANCO CANEDO, PSI,

Instant report,

Miami, Florida

MM T-7 is MM 847-S

(u)

pg.

13

134-736;

report, pg.

g. tant

MM T-8

is EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ,

Instant

report,

3625 N.

W.

11th Street,

pg. 16, 17, 18

Miami, Florida

(by request)

MM T-9 is ZACHARY DE GASTER,

10 East 40th Street, New York City

Instant report,

pg. 18

(by request)

CIA INFO (BR-ISTSET DECLASSIFKI

PER 417/86 LTR.

SP6BSA/ CL 12/6190-934,326

• *

COVER PAGE

DAKS

REVIEWED BY IS/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

9/4/97 claL

OL RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

DocId: 32310662 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

,2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-1742

On November 28, 1963, MM T-4, who is in close

contact with Comandos L leaders, advised that factionalism

had developed inside the organization.

The factionalism

is on the leadership level between SANTIAGO ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ

and ANTONIO CUESTA DEL VALLE.

In early December,

1963,

ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ became relatively inactive, and his son,

SANTIAGO ALVAREZ FERNANDEZ, took over.

"It appeared that

CUESTA has been able to maintain the support of the majority

of the action group members..

FERNANDEZ has been

MM T-4 explained that ALVAREZ

visiting new political sources trying

to buy automatic weapons and explosives.

(Q(U)

On December 13, 1963, ALVAREZ FERNANDEZ stated

the organization had become "too political" and a split

had developed, but there would be no announcements concern-

ing this factionalism. ALVAREZ has been desperately trying

to locate a :57 mm. recoilless rifle.

He claimed that all

the necessary equipment for a raid has been assembled,

that the mission cannot go out without the .57 mm.

rifle. ALVAREZ further made a comment concerning a letter

which was circulated to the effect that neither he nor his

father, SANTIAGO ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ, was authorized to collect

funds for Comandos L. (U)

On December 19, 1963, MM T-4 stated that ALVAREZ,

FERNANDEZ was still looking for

a .57 mm. recoilless rifle,

and had planned to go on a three-day mission. ALVAREZ said

the purpose of the mission would be to test President JOHNSON's

sion word

policy concerning Cuba, and to obtain press publicity to

stimulate money contributions. (CU

On December 24, 1963, MM T-4 advised that ALVAREZ

has not been able to obtain the .57 mm. recoilless rifle,

and it now

appears that he lacks and ammunition and explosives

to conduct a raid against Cuba. (C(u)

Available Boats

[MM I-5, who has a vast knowledge of boats used

by Cuban exiles making attacks against Cuba, on December 19,

1963,7

9.

;..

DocId: 32310662 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-1742

Junta del Gobierno de Cuba en el Exilio

PAULINO

Cuba, was

TER MArTINEZ, forderly an attorney in

"Itlinois.

employed by the Union Tank Cár Company in Chicago,

In May, 1963, he came to Miami, met with prominent

exile»leaders, and claimed to have thirty million dollars to

establish unity, and carry the war/of liberation to Cuba.

SIERRA formed an organization and tried to

establish unity, but the more established exile, political,

and action group leaders did not join with them.

Executive Connittee consisted of lesser known individuals.

By October, 1963, considerable dissension in the

organization developed. It/was apparently SIERRA did not

have thirty million dollars.

He became discredited, and

was criticized for having developed no military action.

(V)

On October 31

former military head of the organization, said he resigned because

he found SIERRA to be unreliable, deceitful, egocentric,

and overly ambitious. RODRIGUEZ

charged SIERRA with being able

to collect some money, but spending it on travel, cheap

jewelry, and high living.

Such persons as CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS, SANTIAGO ALVAREZ

RODRIGUEZ, and JULIO CARCERAN SIRRA a tored. Couct Justice

in Cuba, said they considered

In November, 1963, ALDO VERA/SERAFIN,.

Independent action group, said he was able to get $5,000.00

20 FLA.

out of SIERRA. He always considered SIERRA as being

psychotie.

MM T-4 advised he was present in the summer of

1963 when SIERRA donated $1, 000.00 to Comandos Li(& (U)

MM T-3 in November, 1963, advised that SIERRA had

a session

with an attorney representing an American firm,

the Union Tank Car Company in Chicago,

the astong time, effort, and $50,000.00. (OL)(541)(4)

where he was accused

21.

DocId: 32310662 Page 4

---

