# docid-32307363

## Page 1

[Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/23/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10292-10066

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2824-70, 71

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/19/1961

8

JFC, ATTORNEY, SUR, STRICKLAND, EDWARD ARTHUR,

ARREST, BKG, EMP, REL, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE, A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32307363

Page 1'

10

---

## Page 2

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)*

DATE : 11-14-2017

HO: 94-192

wired with burglar alarms, etc. It is to be noted FOREMAN's

office space is located in a row-type two story building,

for example, one door enters a bank then the next door enters

the lower stairway leading up to FOREMAN's office on the

second floor of the building.

In addition, in this same row

block of buildings a restaurant, bar, etc, are located. It

is to be noted a survey of FOREMAN's building reflects the

premises have been undergoing remodeling in the past few

months. It is my sincere opinion that to utilize any

investigative technique other than a tesur the risk would be

too great for the anticipated results.

It will be noted in referenced Dallas teletyre:

Dallas requests that this office attempt to determine if

CIVELLO was in Houston approximately one month ago. Although

no information has been developed positively by this office to

this effect, it is only natural to presume that CIVELLO was

in Houston to confer with FOREMAN inasmuch as on 4/15/61 when

Attorney FOREMAN telephonically contacted this office he

advised that CIVELLO was at that time in his, FOREMAN's,

office. This data was set forth to the Bureau and Dallas in

Houston airtel dated 4/18/61.

Dallas is requested to follow the activities of

EDWARD ARTHUR STRICKLAND through Dallas PCI, an attorney

representing STRICKLAND, in order that this office can be

advised in the event STRICKLAND contemplates coming to Houston

so that STRICKLAND and any of his associates might be placed

under appropriate surveillance to determine their contacts in

Houston•

This would likewise

• apply to subject CIVELLO.

'Dallas is requested to immediately secure the most

recent photograph of STRICKLAND who was arrested by the Dallas

Sheriff's Office 9/2/60, and forward same to this office for

assistance in conducting a surveillance in the event Dallas

determines that STRICKLAND is coming to Houston.

-3-

DocId: 32307363 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

HO 94-192

Dallas is likewise requested to furnish this

office with the most current photograph of CIVELLO in the

event a surveillance of subject is necessary by this

office in the near future.

Dallas should keep Houston advised relative to

Dallas contacts with the PCI attorney who represents

STRICKLAND.

CIVELLO SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS .

VbBS11301

= 4 -

DocId: 32307363

Page 3

---

## Page 4

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Joseph Frat-is Civello,

y under

ipestigation as

an attorney, advised !

if Dallas. Infoment

nth ago he

attended meeting in H

or on behalf of his

client whom he did noì-reveal. Purpose of

ing was to organize racket in Abilene, Tex., and!

adjoining counties.

"Texas Representative to

Apalachin Meeting" (Joseph Francis Civello)

was present along with others, including

Attorney Percy Foreman.

Foreman represents

the whole group.

Client of informant carries

weekly gambling receipts from Dallas to Las

Vegas and has flown to Chicago on one occasion

for same purpose.

Clier of informant possibly

one Edward Arthur Strich ind, used car salesman,

Dallas.

Matter being followed closely by Houston

and Dallas Divisions.

The damage to this

document was

done

prise to the JFK review.

DocId: 32307363

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

DATE: 11-14-2017

1992 411 050

Hote).

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Parsons.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APR191

TELETYPE

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

URGENT

- 19-51: 1-27 PM CST MH

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele: Room

TO DIRECTOR 192-2824/ AND SAC HOUSTON

194-1926

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gande

FROM SAC DALLAS 92-36

ANTI MACKETEERING

POTENTIAL CEMINNETAEO

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO, AKA, AR. DALLAS PEI, AN ATTORNEY WITH

WHÓM

¿APITACT INSUTFICIENT TO JUDGE RELIABILITY, FURNISHED FOLLOWING INFO ON

APR EIGHTEEN LAST. A CLIENT, WHOSE NAME PCI WOULD NOT REVEAL, RE-

INFORMAN

PORTEDLY PAYING HIGH RETAINER FEE TO PEI FOR PERSONAL REPRESENTATION,

ADVISED ABOUT MONTH AGO HE ATTENDED MEETING IN HOUSTON. PURPOSE OF

MEETING AS TO OREANIZE POLICY RACKET IN ABILENE, #EX, AND

ADJOINING

COUNTIES. CLIENT SAID "TEXAS REPRESENTATIVE TO APALACHIN MEETING"

INFORMANT

WAS PRESENT ALONG WITH HOUSTON CRIMINAL ATTORNEY PERCY FOREMAN. PCI

COULD NOT RECALL NAMES OF OTHERS PRESENT. CLIENT STATED PERCY FORE-

INFORMANT

MAN REPRESENTS THE WHOLE GROUP• CLIENT DESIRES PEI TO REPRESENT HIM

PERSONALLY CLIENT STATED HE CARRIES GAMBLING RECEIPTS WEEKLY FROM

DALLAS TO LAS VEGAS, NEV, VIA CONTINENTAL AIRLINES. SAID HE HAS ALSO

FLOWN TO CHICAGO ON ONE OCCASION FOR SAME PURPOSE. CLIENT SAID THERE

IS NO POLICY RACKET IN DALLAS AT PRESENT BUT AT. HOUSTON MEETING DIS-

CUSSED ORGANTZING SAME WHEN SHERIFF BILL DECKER, DALLAS,

CLIENT KEPT REFERRING TO MEETING AND

D HIS SUPERIORS AS THE "SYNDICÁTE. "

LAFORKANT

PCI ADVISED HE HAD APPOINTMENT TO MEET CLIENT AT CLIENT-S PLACE OF

BUSINESS APR EIGHTEEN. DESCRIBED CLIENT AS PREVIOUSEY AERGENG FEDERAL

62 APR 28 1968

DocId: 32307363 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the Jolri F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE; 11-14-2017 •

PAGE ?

DL 92-36

INFORMANT APRIL

SENTENCE FOR FRAUD. DISCREET SUERVEILLANCE INSTITUTED ON PCI APR

INFIRMANT

EIGHTEEN. AT TWO TWENTYEIGHT PM PCI OBSERVED MEETING INDIVIDUAL

IDENTIFIED AS EDWARD ARTHUR STRICKLAND, FBI NO. FOUR ONE FOUR SEVEN

INFORMANT

FOUR TWO B, AT L&S USED CAR LOT, HIGHWAY EIGHTY, MESQUITE; TEX. PEI

APRIL

WAS WITH STRICKLAND UNTIL THREE ZERO EIGHT PM. MORNING APR NINETEEN

INFORSA

ArC/b

FNFORMATIOAI

PCI ADVISED HE MET CLIENT APR EIGHTEEN AND OBTAINED FURTHER INFO.

IT

INFORMANT

SHOULD BE NOTED SURVEILLANCE WAS MAINTAINED ON PET, AND STRICKLAND

WAS ONLY INDIVIDUAL CONTACTED. STRICKLAND CONVICTED USDE, NORTHERN

DiSTRICT:

TAUS

VIOLATION

SECTION

DIST OF TEX, DALLAS, MAY TWENTYFIVE, FIFTYFOUR, KIOS SEC ONE THREE :

TITLE

U.S. CO DE

BUREAU FIE

FOUR THREE, F EIGHTEEN, USE, FOR SCHEME TO DEFRAUD BY WIRE, BUFIbE

EIGHTYSEVEN DASH TWO ZERO EIGHT NINE SEVEN, DALLAS FILE EIGHTYSEVEN

DASH TWO FIVE ZERO FOUR. SERVED TIME USP, LEAVENWORTH. LAST KNOWN

ARREST DALLAS SO, SEPT TWO, DALIX! FOR WARRANT BY SMITH CO, TEX, CHARGE

SHELIEF OFFILE

THEFT UNDER, NO DISPOSITION. DE-SO FILES REFLECT STRICKLAND DESCRIBED

WHITE MADE

TENAS

WM, BORN SEPT TWELVE, TWENTYONE, DUBLIN, TEX, FIVE EIGHT AND ONE-

COMPLEXIN

HALF, TWO HUNDRED EIGHT, BROWN EYES, RED /BALDING/ HAIR, RUDDY COMP,

USED CAR SALESMAN, WIFE LINDAL, MOTHER GERTRUDE STRICKLAND, ONE FOUR

TEXAS

ZERO TWO COTTONWOOD, ABILENE, TEX. RECORDS CONTINENTAL AIRLINES,

DALLAS, REFLECT APR THIRTEEN LAST STRICKLAND /NU/ LEFT TELEPHONE NO.

DocId: 32307363 Page 6

---

