# docid-32176235

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10184-10230

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-117290-764

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HAYES, JAMES D

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/11/1961

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

HSCA, REQ, DOC, AROR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

• RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/27/1995

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO DOJ, INC DOS, FBI LTRS, MEMO, 2 LHM, RAP SHEET

v9.1

• DocId: 32176235

Page

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Reçords Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Washington, D.C. 20520

CONFIDENTIAL

MAY

5 1978

SENDERAI GCVERRATHT

REVIEWED BY FET KK TASK FORCE

Mr. Drew J. Clark

ON 14/ 30/94 my/da

Congressional Inquiry Division

O' RELEASE IN FULL

J. Edgar Hoover FBI Building

10th & Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.

RELEASE IN PART

Washington, D.C.

20535

Dear Mr. Clark:

ON

,TOTA5 2608 SL0/nde

TOTAL DENIAL

3-29-95

Per Stute letter 3-2045.

Pursuant to the third agency rule, the Department with

held the enclosed FBI documents from release to the Hous

Select Committee on Assassinations.

I am forwarding these

six documents to you so that the FBI may make its deter-

mination regarding the release of this information to the

Select Committee:

In his letter of April 24 to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, the

Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations notified

the Select Committee of this referral.

The Department

interposes no objection to the release of any informa-

tion provided in these documents.

Should you have any questions regarding this referral or

other matters regarding the Select Committee's access

Department of State documents, please do not hesitate to

contact me:

Enclosures:

As stated.

Sincerely,

I lean ne

liam H

Director

2*104

Foreign Affairs Document

and Reference Center

PEG46

62-117290-

12402214764

CONFIDENTIAL

2. 6

*Unclassified upon removal

of attachments

мг/4

54 JUN: 21978

DocId: 32176235 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Reggeds Collection Agt of 1992-144 USC 2197 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

umber ditti mate?""

UNITED STATES DEPARIMENT OF JUSTICE

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

Arolreas Reply do the

Division Indicated

and liefer in Initial aud Ruinber

Febrnary 15 1965

RISURE RESEEXT RESUESTED

Mi. Abba !. Schwarte

Administcator, Buzcan of Security

and Consular Affaire

Dapartment of State

Washington 25: D,0e

Dear Die Scinartz:

Reference is made to a honorendun fron the lassport Office dated

July 29, 1964, requesting that considevation be given to the possible prose

cution of Antulio Ortix Ramirez under the provisions of 8 U.S.C, 1185(1)

relative to uneuthoriaod travel to Cabe.

A review of the files reflects that on May 1, 1961, Ramirez,

at gunpoint, hijacked

a National Airlines planc over Merathon, Florida,

and forced the pilot to fly to Cuba. Subsequently, the plane and its

Passengers vere permitied to cctur to the United States but Romire

renained

in Gube,

of this daie all available evidence indicates nat

he still is residing within Cuba.

On June 28, 1902, a Federal gand jury at Miami, Florida, seturned

an Indiethent charging Raniren wich assauli, transporting a kidnapped person,

and crooportation oi a scolen ventele, in violation of i8 U.S.C. 113, 1201,

and 2312.

A lookout notice has.

been placed wich the Immigration and Naturali

zation Scivice so that he may be apprehended upon his return to the United

SLATES.

In light di the offenses charged in the presently outstanding

indictment, it is our opinion that no practical purpose would be served by

iniLlating prosecution against him at this time for a vivlation of 8 U.S.C.

Sincerely,

Assistant Actorney General

Internal Cut E10e.1010

By

JOHN HE DAVIST

eer, Criminal Section

DocId: 32176235 Page 3

---

