# docid-32328637

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90076-10152

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 202-4332-11

Released under the John

• Kennedy

assassination Recorda

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notei.

Caser:Nd 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DONAHOE

BELMONT

DATE : 05/29/1959

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS,: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32328637

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

STANDARO FORM NO. 8A

Office Memo

TO

: A. H. Beln

UM • UNITED S

- Belmont

- Donahoe

-

Co Co Lenz

J. S. Johnson

R.

W. Corman

- Nasca

GOVERNMENT

DATE: May 29, 1959

PRONy: S. B. Donahoefp

CONFINFT.

SURYECT: MAL 63555

(JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ)

whol

Tolson

Belmont

De Loach

McGuire

Mohr -

Parsons.

Rosen

Tamm.

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan -

Tele. Room —

Holloman

Gandy

DATE2/25/95 BY SEEMAC/KEA

MM 635-5, Cuban national, has been serving

as Miami informant

in Cuban matters.

He is being paid up to $100 a month for services

plus up

to $30 a month for expenses.

On 5/22/59 Miami

advised informant has been recruited into

Cuban Air' Force as second lieutenant by Pedro Diaz Lanz,

head of Cuban

lir Force; is serving as assistant to Marcos Diaz, Lanz (Pedro's brother

ino is inspector of Cuban Air Force; and he 'is assistant to the chie:

of Cuban Air Force Intelligence.

Miami believes informant has good

opportunity to obtain top level information concerning Castro Government,

its intelligence activities, communist activities in Cuba and steps

being taken against Batista adherents in U. S.

Miami noted informant

has already furnished information concerning Cuban Air Force, its

intelligence service,

initiation of on anti-castro movement by

Pedro Diaz Lanz, Communist Party activities in Cuba, revolutionary

activities in Cuba, as well as a number of individuals connected with

Castro Government.

During Castro's trip to U.s., informant was member

of party.

Informant is presently endeavoring to obtain copies of

statements given.d

agent in the Miami office by a witness in the

carlos prio socarras, former president of cuba, case which are allegedly

in the files of the cuban Air Force in order to resolve the allegation

that the cuban Air Force has a copy of the Bureau's report. (This last

¿tem has been the subject of separate memorando.)

Miami has recommended an increase in informant's payments up

to $300 per month effective 5/15/59 for a period of four months. Miami

made no-request for expenses as informant is traveling at expense of

Cuban Air Force.

OBSERVATIONS:

Itis

12.3

*The increase of $200 at one time

202-11332-11

appeans to be excessive.

belleved that the increase should be modified downward so as

permit up to $200 per month for services at this time.

This will

provide incentive for informant to produce and at the same time

establishia figure which can more egsily be cut if informant does not

produce as expected.

Enclosure ur

mios nade

NE: Marcos Lan?

134-5991

JUN 5 119552

VHN: sIm:cla

Request: See

62 SƯN 10 1959.

NW 54460 DooId: 32328637

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memorandum Donahoe to Belmont

Re:

Ми 635-5

(JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ)

134-5992

RECOMMENDATIONS :

That the attached letter be approved authorizing the

increase of the informant's payments up to $200 per month for services

for a period of your months eifective 5/45/59.

Miami is being

instructed to fully evaluate all information furnished by the

informant to insure justification of payments.

54460

DocId: 32328637

Page 3

---

