# docid-32171189

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION HORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD_SERIES:

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER:

FBI

124-10173-10008

HO

105-82555-1254

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. NY

DIRECTOR. FBI

DATE:

12/03/1963

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

LHO, POST-RP, FPCC

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

01/22/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH

53025

DocId: 32171189

Page

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

FBI

Date: 12/3/63

(Type in plain text of code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

EX

UT.

3/9\93

ENTIAL

0880

MMATION

MEB

DECLAS

510 BY. 57

85.

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, NEW YORK (105-38431)

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

IS -R

(00: DALLAS)

ReNYtel, 12/3/63.

On 12/3/63, JOHN J. ABT,

who has represented

USA before the SACB,

as well as individuals

advised the NYO of the desire of his

client, ARNOLD JOHNSON, who is Legislative Secretary

CP, USA, to make available correspondence

between subject and the CP, USA.

Such correspondence

was turned over by ABT in the presence of JOHNSON

his office,

320 Broadway, NYC, on 12/3/63.

Request

Nas made by Aband JOHNSON that this materia

returned when It has served its purpose

and he also

stated that any questions

that may arise concerning

this material may be referred to him for an answer.U

The original copies of the material made

available are being furnished to the Bureau as enclosures

via an Eastern Airlines shuttle pilot.

Details as to the

Eastern Airlines flight will be furnished the Bureau on

the night of December 3ra.

Xerox copies are being furnished

to the Dallas Office for its information and other coples.

being retained by the NYO.U.

- Bureau (Encl

- Dallas (Encl. 10(-AMRM) nets

1 - New York

LOSURD

177

C. Ce Wick

Approved:

at Sent

EX-102

4 19630

105-82050

SOVIBI SBO BI

TA

HH 53025

DocId: 32171189 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Vi

NY 105-38431

Photographic copy of poster "Read

The Worker If You want to Know About

Peace, „

Democracy, Unemployment, Economic

Trend.

on 12/2/63 NY 3903-

advised that ARNOLD

JOHNSON as of that date located

correspondence concerning

OSWALD and that it was being sent to GEORGE MEYERS, who is

Chairman of the Maryland District of Columbia District

d the CP and a resident of Baltimore.

MEYERS has recently

been given

additional responsibility

in connection with

efforts of the CP to organize in the south.U

In the course of discussion while the foregoing

material was

turned over to SA JOSEPH V. WATERS, JOHNSON

explained that OSWALD's inquiry of the CP had been handled

routinely with the transmittal of literature consisting

of a variety of pamphlets.

He furnished a specimen

package

of these pamphlets,

all of which are generally available

to the public.

These pamphlets are identified as: U

"Ben Davis on the

Harvard Law Forum'C Carran Act at the

"3 Brave Men Tell How Freedom Comes to an

01d South CIty - Nashville, Tenn." by JAMES E. JACKSON

"The Only Choice Peaceful Coexistence" by GUS HALL'

"Main Street to Wall Street: End the Cold War!"

by GUS HALL

"Horizons of the Future for a Socialist America"

by ELIZABETH GURLEY FLYNN

"Free Americans from the Mc Carran Act Danger!"

.by GUS HALL

"Catalogue 1961"

"The Ultra-Right, Kennedy, and Role of the progressives

And The de canet fusiness Reaction

by GUS HALI U

1310e09

Me 3 -

HH 53025

DocId: 32171189

Page

3

---

