# docid-32293367

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10211-10143

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-874

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/24/1963

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LST, RES, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32293367

Page 1

31

---

## Page 2

Released under the John'T. Kennedy AYS AREN®F

DATE = 11-14-2017

COMMUNICATIONS StURdys collection Act at 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hotel?

OCT 2 4 1953

TELETYPE

PfI. Tolson

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr_

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan-

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoact

Mr. Evange

Mr. Gale.

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr. Tavel.

Mr. Trotter_

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy.

URGENT

10-24-63

6-26 PM EST VED

TO DIRECTOR, FBI

AND SAC, ATLANTA

FROM

SAC, TAMPA

192-11

2-P

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., AKA: AR.

DAILY TELETYPE SUMMARY.

TP ONE TWENTY C ADVISED NIGHT OCT. TWENTY THREE THAT ON

MONDAY MORNING, OCT. TWENTY ONE, SUBJECT WAS GONE FROM HIS

RESIDENCE, HOWEVER, MRS. TRAFFICANTE REMARKED SUBJECT LEFT

SUNDAY. NEICHER DESTINATION NOR MODE OF TRANSPORTATION

MENTIONED. ABOUT TWO THIRTY P.M., TUESDAY, OCT. TWENTY TWO,

SUBJECT ENTERED HIS RESIDENCE TAMPA ACCOMPANIED BY JAMES C.

LONGO, ARRIVING IN LONGO-S CAR, AND SOURCE RELATES HE AND LONGO A

'LEFT RESIDENCE ABOUT FOUR P.M. AT SEVEN THIRTY A.M., WEDNESDAY,.

OCT. TWENTY THREE, SUBJECT IN BED AT HIS RESIDENCE AND WAS

HOME ALL DAY. NIGHT OF OCT. TWENTY THREE SUBJECT WAS TO TAKE

WIFE TO DINNER AT COLUMBIAN RESTAURANT. SOURCE RELATES MRS.

TRAFFICANTE TALKED TO SARAH ANN IN ATLANTA AND RELATED INTENDED

TO TRAVEL UP TO ATLANTA ON FRIDAY

OF OPINION SUBJECT TO ACCOMPAEL 46

OCT. TWENTY

FIVE, AND SOURCE

2=2101-874

END PAGE ONE

88 OCT 29 1963

BI NOW

19w

1963

EX-103

DocId: 32293367 Page 2

---

