# docid-32297278

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10219-10054

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2717-502

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

03/29/1962

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

ABR, ASSOC, ANONYMOUS LTR, OC SYNDICATE, BUSS,

MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32297278

Page 1

178

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 92-NEW;

PH 92-444

PH 623-C* and PH 614-C (TE) both are in almost

daily contact with subject ANGELO BRUNO.

The Philadelphia

Division Is opening a separate file under caption "CRIME

CONDITIONS, TRENTON,

and information being provided

by these two sources vili be reviewed for information of

interest re the crime conditions in the Trenton, N.J., area.

present operating Garden State Vending Company in Camden,

N.J. GOLOB, It should be noted, was formerly in the

cigarette vending machine business in Frenton, N.J., which

business was taken over by BRUNO's associates.

State Vending Company was formerly known as Windsor Vending

Company and was owned by WILLIE RIPKA, who was an associate

of FRANK "BLINKY" PALERMO... It was RIPKA's residence where

PALERMO's. co-defendant, FRANKIE CARBO, was arrested by the

New York Police Department involving boxing charges in New

York City.

GOLOB, in the operation of the Garden State

Vending Company, is in frequent contact with PH 623-0*.

He has furnished numerous complaints,, according to the

informant, to BRUNO in regard to "SHORTY"T HAMILTON. It

Is speculation, but it appears that. HAMILTON maybe the

author of the above-mentioned anonymous letter.

based on the fact that HAMILTON has been described as one

who "yells cop.

GOLOB, in operation in Camden, N.J. > 18

in competition with HAMILTON.

He has told the informant

that HAMILTON has spread stories allegedly associating

LOU CAMPBELL with the operation of Garden State and claiming

that Garden State Vending was racket-connected.

Information furnished periodically re HAMILTON

indicates that he apparently has an arrest record, possibly

owns a terminal building in Camden where buses from the

Philadelphia area pick up and discharge passengers, that

HAMILTON receives

five per cent of the gross from business

enterprises operated at this location, and 1s.

his early 40s.

said that

the "FBI, POsSibly In

is "conducting

investigation re the Garden State Vending Company because

of stories spread by HAMILTON.

BRUNO is shown on the payroll

of the Garden State Vending Company according to PH 614-0 (TE).

- 2 -

DocId: 32297278

Page 2

---

