# docid-32321328

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10376-10486

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-3151

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

AL

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/19/1998

1

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/30/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32321328

205

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John 1. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection

DATE: 11-14-2017

..

(01/26/1998)

act or 1992 411 U5C 2107 Hotel.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence:

ROUTINE

'0: OPCA

Date:

Att.:

JFK Task Force

Catherine Lamey

Room 11144

08/19/1998

rom:

Albany

Contact: PLS, Bonnie A. Bailey

Approved By: Saville Dennis M

Drafted By: Bailey Bonnie A: bab

Case In #: +2-10-1029205-3151

Title; JOHN F. KENNEDY RECORDS

COLLECTION ACT OF 1992 (The Act)

Synopsis:

Searches completed and pertinent index cards and

search

slips being forwarded to FBIHQ.

Enclosures: Original index cards and search slips relating to

this request.

Details:

By EC dated 07/08/1998 to All Field Offices, each

office

was

requested to search indices for any additional

assassination related information which may have been placed on

record since the previous searches.

A search of Albany's General, ACS, and ELSUR indices

failed to reveal any additional information which has not been

previously reported to FBIHQ.

In addition, a consultation with

the secretary to the SAC failed to reveal that any information is

stored in that office.

Pursuant to referenced EC, enclosed are the General and

ACS indices search slips on those individuals who had additional

aliases and the ELSUR indices search concerning all the

individuals.

Also enclosed

are twenty (20) original indices cards

from the Albany Division. Copies have been retained in the

general indices.

DocId: 32321328 Page 2

---

