# docid-32163663

## Page 1

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

identification For..

wait.

SILVILUI

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10151-10242

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-109060-8281X5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FOREIGN POLICE

FROM:

[Restricted]

TO :

TITLE:

DATE:

09/08/1989

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/29/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DEdId: 32163663

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BURBAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEHENT INFORMATION SHEKT (JFK MATERIALS)

Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions).

A Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable

material

available for disclosure. - All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[] Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

[]

[]

Subsection 10 (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of

foreign relations)

subsection 2 (living person who provided

confidential information)

(]

subsection 3 (unwarranted invasion of privacy)

[9. Subsection 4

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

[]

Subsection 5

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

[]

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

[)

For your information:

IX The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

+ 462-109060-8281x5

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXXX

XXXXxXxxXX

xXXXxxXXXX

XXXXXxXXXX

DocId: 32163663

Page 2

---

## Page 3

° Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1998 (41 USC 2107

11-14-2017

METROPOLITAN POLICE

Central Officer's

Special Report

SUBJECT.

Assassination of

President John

F KENNEDY

Reference to Papers

S01 BRANCH (Serious Crimes)

SPECIALIST OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT

New Scotland Yard

8th

Our day off....

September

1989

Detective Chief Superintendent

A report was

under reference 175A-DL-109 from the Office

of Legal Attache, US Embassy, London

wherein it was requested that

further enquiries

be made in

the UK to assist a current investi-

gation by the FBI in Dallas.

An anonymous telephone call had

been received

in New Orleans relating to the marginally quoted

subject and previous UK enquiries had tentatively identified the

CONFIDENTIAL

This document is forwarded on the condition that

neither it nor its contents will be forwarded to

any other individual or organisation without the

prior approval of the Commissioner of Police of

the Metropolis, New Scotland Yard, London SW1

Deborah MILLINGTON to be away from her

Brighton address

on business.

She eventually contacted me on

31 August 1989

and readily admitted telephoning Joseph GIARRUSO in

During the conversation I was able to elicit the

following.

She was previously married

to an American and

between 1966 and 1969

she lived

in the New Orleans area working as an assistant physio-

therapist at the Touro Infirmary.

Through general

discovered that one of the patients was the wife

of a New Orleans

attorney and that the law firm, for whatever reason, had a

secretarial problem. As she was able to type

she offered her

services at weekends when necessary. Having had

no training as a

legal secretary, much of what she typed meant nothing to her.

One letter did however, which was to the mother of Lee Harvey OSWALD.

After all this time she can only say that it related to money

being sent to her (the mother) and it seemed to refer in some way

to President KENNEDY's assassination.

She initially considered

informing the authorities but decided against it as she didn't

wish to bring herself to attention.

She denied ever being

interviewed by the New Orleans Police Department during the Clay

SHAW trial.

She was aware of the nature of this trial and was

aware of the name Clay SHAW within the attorneys office but she

cannot now remember in what context.

She cannot remember the attorney's name but agreed

that it could

have been Mark MANCINI.

She described him as being 30 io 40 years

old, thickset, 5 feet 10 inches tall, dark hair and swarthy

From conversations with the wife, described as dark

haired and plump, she had learnt that the attorney's first wife had

There was a daughter from the first marriage and

a son from the second.

The law firm had offices on an upper floor

in a building opposite the Round Tower Hotel.

Form 5031

1750-460

62-109060-828145

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32163663

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 V44 USC 2107

Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

- 2 -

did Deborah MILLINGTON telephone New Orleans in March 1989? A

controversial documentary concerning the assassination

KENNEDY had been broadcast on British television

in March 1989 which

caused her to remember the events of many years ago.

incensed by the subsequent debate conducted in

the media that she

decided to telephone New Orleans to see if Joseph GIARRUSO was still

When in New Orleans she had felt sorry for him over

the criticism he received after Clay SHAW's acquittal.

publicity or further involvement.

In fact she was somewhat aghast

at me contacting her as her intention was

to remain anonymous.

Enquiries of Sussex Police show that she lives in a good class area.

Brighton and nothing to her detriment could be

At this stage there is nothing to indicate that the events

however, impossible to assess the true extent

of her knowledge.

Should it be considered necessary I will attempt

to take the matter further.

I ask that this report be forwarded to the Legal Attache, US Embassy,

London for his information.

This report is forwarded on the condition that neither it not irs

contents will

be forwarded to any other individual or organisation

prior approval of the Commissioner of Police

Metropolis, New Scotland Yard, London, SW1.

Mandoesn

M Ashdown

Detective Sergeant

S01 Branch

C 0

NFID

NTIAL

this document is forwarded on the condition that

neither it nor its contents will be forwardeil to

any other individual or organisation without the

prior approval of the Commissioner of Police of

the Metropolis, New Scotland Yard, London SWI

MP.821E1 Form 5032

DocId: 32163663

Page 1

---

