# docid-32201935

## Page 1

Date: 05/11/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY TINFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10004-10046

RECORDS SERIES:

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

-ROM

10.

TITLE :

PLANS TO ASSASSAINATE CUBAN

DATE : 06/04/00

PAGES :

3

SUBJECTS :

ASSASSINATION OF CUBAN LEADERS

HERNANDEZ, VICTOR DOMINDADOR ESPINOSA

CUBELA, ROLANDO

CASTRO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/12/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

53244 Date:

06-12-2017

COMMENTS :

335-2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

11H 53244

DocId: 32201935

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

PLANS TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN LEADERS

tho laited States would be ready to five this assistance at

a nomont's notico as tho plottera may bo ablo to holá tho

Government for only a say or two.

CEM

He was in Spain for about twenty hours during his

recent trip and in that country he contactod other Cuban

COCO

exiles and learned that a man nared e

do not trust:

Riage The Cuban exiles

IDENTIFI

223 and allere he has been compromised

lie requested to be put in contact with a representative

of the Central Intelligence Agency who was thoroughly familiar

with the Cuban situation and linowledgeable concerning the

individuala invoired in the plot.

NOTE:

Above information contained in New York teletype

dated 6/2/65, captioned, "Victor Domindador Espinosa lernandez,

Neutrality Matters; Internal Security - Cuba."

Bureau files indicato Espinosa in 1963 was involved

In a plan to bomb Cuba. Our investigation of this plot, which

was not a Central Intelligence Agency operation, resultrd in

seizure of over a ton of dynamite and other material to be

used in making bombs.

Bureau files indicate Cubola has been previously

contacted in Europe by Central Intelligence Agency possibly

with a view towards taking some action against Cuban leaders.

Almeida Bosque may bo identical with person serving

as First Deputy Minister of the Cuban Rovolutianary Armed Forces.

General (copy to Deputy Attorney General) be thor letter

erox copy being furnished to lihite llouse and Dirgetor 1ug

Central

SECRET

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE THRCE

2.00

HH 53244

DocId: 32201935

Page 2

---

