# docid-32316300

## Page 1

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10346-10420

BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-61-622

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SPLENDORE

TO :

BU

TITLE :

DATE: 10/23/1962

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

STEVE MAGADDINO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32316300

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

*FD-209 (Rev. 11-23-60)

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

SAC (137-656)

FROM

SA

HENRY R. SPLENDORE

SUBJECT: BU 259-C

Dates of Contact

10/12/62

Titles and File #s on which contacted

STEVE MAGADDINO, aka

AR

DATE:

10/23/62

SI

PSI

92-61

Purpose and results of contact

Negative

Positive

It is being pointed out that in Buffalo airtel to the Bureau

dated 9/5/62, it is set forth that Bu o2-C*

indicated that "SAM's

life' may be in danger

due to remarks made by FRED RANDACIO.

Although it is not known positively the identity of "SAM," there

is a good possibility that the person RANDACCIO is' making reference

to is identical with BU 259-C.

In view of this, no open or

direct contacts are being made with this informant, and contacts

will be made with this informant during the next five or six

months on a casual basis.

This informant has no telephone and

it is difficult to make

arrangements to meet him, and he will

not be contacted at regular intervals during the

next five or

six months due to the above but will be contacted when he is

observed in one of the local restaurants which he frequents

if this contact can be made discreetly.

Personal Data

92-61

HRS: jny

(2)

Informant certified that he has furnished all information obtained by him

since last contact.

Rating

Coverage

92-61-1620

SEARCHED.

-__ INDEXEL

CHIEFT

Oct 23 1962.

indreio

DocId: 32316300 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 744 USC 2107

Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 137-656

At this time, the informant pointed out that during

they spring of 1962 GEORGE

mas, part owner of the Ales

Restaurant

ate accompanied him, the informant, and several of

Informant's friends on a fishing trip

to Canada.

While

in Canada, they engaged

in several card

and during

the course

him, the informant.

These do tate cir kos at not have in to

He stated

amount of money on his person at this time,

but that he would

pay the informant upon his return to Niagara Falls, New York.

Jp to the date of this contact, CHURAOs had not pala any mone.

to the informant; and he, the informant, has heard rumors to

the effect that he has been

accused of cheating CHURAROS In

their cara games.

He has also heard that SAM BANGAIRE has visited

CHURAKOS and has inferred to CHURAKOS that it is not necessary

for him, CHURAKOS, to pay this poker loss to him.

He pointed

out that he is of the opinion that RANGATORE is only a chauffeur

an errand boy for STEVE MAGADDINO, but people necessarily

associate RANGATORE with STEVE MAGADDINO due to the fact that

RANGATORE is frequently in the company of MAGADDINO.

He said that if the above contact was made by

RANGATO RE, and he believes that it was, it is one way of telling

CHURAKOS that he need not worry that he

the informant, will

out any pressure on him, CHURAKOS, for the latter to pay this

poker loss due to the fact that CHURAKOS would have the

"protection" of the STEVE MAGADDINO group.

The Informant pointed out that this is all supposition

on his part,

but added that he has not put any pressure on

CHURAKOS for the latter to pay the poker loss to him.

He further added that during the past week he

purchased a

local football pool ticket and won

. $700.00

• He

stated that to his knowledge the football pool ticket: is printed

and backed locally. He did not identify the backer of this

He said the backer of the football pool refused

En pay hid the $700,00 because they accused him, the Informant,

of cheating, thus being able to win the $700.00.

He said that he has heard that SAM RANGATORE has also

contacted the backer of this football pool and has indicated

that it is not necessary for him to pay the informant this

$700.00..

The informant said he has no way of knowing that this

-2-.

DocId: 32316300 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-20171

BU 137-656

contact was actually made by RANGATORE, but he does know that

the backer of the lootball pool has not paid the $/00.00 ano

has indicated that he is not going to pay the $700.00.

At this time, the informant also stated that he has

nothing to do with either STEVE MAGADDINO or any of the so-called

MAGADDINO group although he did infer that he is "scared" of this

group and does not trust them.

The informant also furnished some additional information

regarding SAM RANGATORE which information was incorporated in

the most recent report submitted in the SAM RANGATORE case.

-3-

-079

DocId: 32316300

Page 4

---

