# docid-32327978

## Page 1

Released under the Jon F. Kennedy ASSassination Records Collection Act

of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90066-10219

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/28/1963

12

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

SALVATORE GRANELLO

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

06/24/1998

INDEFINITE

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32327978

Page 1

30

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection

LAct of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DARES (HAr. 1912067

FBI

Date:

6/28/63

46

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (137-8862)

ATT: ASSISTANT DIRECTOR A. ROSEN

SAC, NEW YORK (137-9495)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

SUBJECT: NY 3936-C

HERCIA IS UNCLASSINC

DATE -27 956Y 5P. 8 MA C/ISR

Set out below is a summary of informa

obtained

from the informant during the period 6/20-27/63. This

information is not set out in a form suitable for dissemination;

however, appropriate letterhead memoranda are being prepared

in the various matters.

It should be noted that the informant is separated

from his

family and is currently involved in a bitter dispute

with his wife over custody and visiting privileges with his

children.

Because of this emotional upheaval, it has been

extremely difficult for the contacting Agents

to meet with

the informant at regular intervals.

However, it is anticipated

that all matters currently not fully explained or developed

will be fully developed in the near luture.

Re: SAM

LE Value Discount stores, floridi

source: along with PaINeISS and JACKMaCAR

is currently attempting to secure a Teamster mortgage for

SAMUEL IVES. He has thus far received two certified checks

from IVES, each in the amount of $10,000 drawn on the

Lawyers Title Insurance Company

The first check was

endorsed

the source and

-deoosited as

legal fee.

The second

$10,000

Bureau

(137-8862): S$-115

- New York

(137-9495)

4"

137-88621

sinted

Tickle destroyer JuL 161909

111-05

Approved 4X

5 JUL 2

Sent

Per

pin Charge

DocId: 32327978

Page 2

---

## Page 3

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-9495

check was endorsed by IVES who turned it over io the source

to obtain cash for the check.

to MC CARTHY and WEISS providing Big Value receives a

The source 1s to pay this cash

commitment from the Teamsters. Source contacted JAMES PLUMERI

and asked him if PLUMERI could put him in touch with anybody

who would cash this check for him without his endorsement.

PLUMERI took him to 8 west 46th Street in the jewelry exchange

and introduced source to one JACKIE (LNU), whom PLUMERI described

as a Las Vegas courier.

JACKIE contacted

two jewelers who

refused to cash the check without the endorsement of the source.

Source advised that he will get this check cashed at a later

date.

PLUMERI told the source that JACKIE works with the people

in the jewelry exchange and that he cashes these checks for a fee

without endorsement.

If at a subsequent date an individual was

asked to whom he paid this money, he would be in a position to

say that he purchased jewelry with the money.

Re: ROCC

DE CANDIA aka RocKy

Source advised that he has told his clients that if

they wished to cash checks, he would

be able to cash them for

attorney,

Long Island. DE CANDIA told the source that he sells and

distributes vending machines and will cash checks for the

informant.

He told the informant that these checks should be

endorsed over to somé? research corporations controlled by

DE CANDIA and used as

investments in these corporations.

At a:

subsequent date, the investments will be written off, thus

giving

the informant the original cash for the check

and

subsequently giving him a tax loss because he can claim he

lost money in one of

these research corporations. DE CANDIA

has requested that informant only attempt to cash checks of

$5,000 or less and he wants eight per cent for cashing these

checks.

DE CANDIA told the source that he has an individual

whom he controls in Philadelphia named PETER O' TOOLE. He said

that O'TOOLE uses office space in House Speaker Me CORMACK's

office in Washington and has a good contact in MC CORMACK's

Informant asked DE CANDIA if O'TOOLE is with VELOSHEN.

DE CANDIA told the informant that VELOSHEN's contact in

been "playing games and SCHREBER Is red up with him.

-2-

Sorry: le

DocId: 32327978 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-9495

Re: WILBUR CLARK and Chateau Devin Apartments,

* Las Vegas,

Informant advised that he spoke to DAVE WENGER an

rave him $2,000 because WENGER, who had received so, 000 pron

the informant a short time ago, told the informant that he

thought there was $10,000 in the envelope and told JIMMY

HOFFA that he was coming to Washington with $10,000. Informant

told WENGER that he was sorry there was a misunderstanding,

but thought at the time he gave this money to WENGER on 6/20/63,

that he made it clear to WENGER that the envelope contained

$5,000 and not $10,000.

During the course of their discussion, informant

told WENGER that he had been offered a deal by WILBUR CLARK's

associates to get a Teamster mortgage

• for the Chateau DeVille

Apartments in Las Vegas.

WENGER told him that there was no

chance of the informant making any money on this deal since

WILBUR CLARK had already received a prior commitment from the

Teamsters in the amount of $3, 300,000, which he had not used

and it has been decided to use

to finance the Chateau DeVille Apartments.

WENGER commented

that he could not understand why

the WILBUR CLARK people

contacted the informant since they have "a direct deal with

JIMMY HOFFA."

Re: DAVE WENGER

Source advised that WENGER has an interest in the

money presently on deposit in his bank in Nassau and the

informant is currently giving WENGER money he is obtaining

from new potential deals, such as the SAMUEL IVES deal.

In

this manner he anticipates getting WENGER's full cooperation

on the new deals and if for some reason these deals do not go

through, he will return the money to the clients out of the

amount now on dedosit in the Nassau bank.

WENGER suggested

tO

the informant that if he is going to Chicago, he should get

in

touch with MORRIS EMANUEL.

Informant reminded WENGER that

EMANUEL has not furnished any information recently, probably

because he has not received any money.

He said that if he

contacted EMANUEL, he would have to give him some of the money

owing to WENGER.

WENGER suggested that the informant give

MORRIS

EMANUEL $500.

-3-

DocId: 32327978 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE:. 11-14-2017

NY 137-9495

Re: MORRIS EMANUEL

Source advised that on the evening of 6/26/63,

MORRIS EMANUEL called HERBYCOHN and told him that JIMMY

HOFFA had nothing to worrynabout concerning the current

Grand Jury probe in Chicaga

He also told COHN that (FNU)

HAGERTY, whom COHN described as being a former member of

the

opposition to JAMES HOFFA, has been caught in a $170,000

fraud.

On 6/27/63, HERB COHN telephonically contacted

EMANUEL's home and told EMANUEL's son to have his father

call COHN in NY.

EMANUEL called COHN's office and COHN

immediately left the office allegedly to go downstairs and.

place a call to EMANUEL from a public phone booth.

COHN

and the informant thereafter agreed that COHN should fly to

Chicago this date and give EMANUEL $500. This matter was

of the Bureau and

envelope containing $500 to be passed to EMANUEL.

Re: JACKASCHLIFER (ph)

SCHLIFER is currently building a Marina in Lower

Manhattan.

SCHLIFER approached the source about securing a

Teamster loan with the agreement that the source would get.

approximately $100,000 in checksplus an interest in the

Marina if the loan

was put through. DAVID WENGER told the

source that GEORGE and HERBERT

BURRIS are putting through

this loan and are getting the

green"

from

the two. main

contractors in advance and they will increase their price.

Source has been told by BERNARD SPINDEL that HOFFA is

getting

five points in

"green" on this mortgage. Informant

said this mortgage amounts to approximately $4,000,000 and

will probably go through the current meeting.

Informant

said he understands that BURRIS has

gotten five points in

"green"

from the contractors and BURRIS is bringing this money

to Chicago to give to HOFFA. Informant said SCHLIFER has a

30-year lease on the property from the City at very low rent

with no

taxes.

He said that BURRIS and SCHLIFER have an

agreement with the contractors and the "green" will be

returned to them if the deal falls through.

-4-

DocId: 32327978

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Reçords Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107, Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-9495

Re: BERNARD SPINDEL

SPINDEL recently checked the informant's office

for hidden electronic equipment at the informant's request.

He advised the informant that he was unable to find any

radio or other device located in his office.

Informant said

that when he discussed the Marina deal with SPINDEL, he

suggested that SPINDEL attempt to get$5,000. from BURRIS

and if he is successful, informant and SPINDÈL Will split

this money.

Re:

Forum Motor Lodge

entire escrowant die to me cuted teene Forum

Motor Lodge. He said that FRANKLIN was relleve to get his

money back.

This money, which came out of an escrow account,

vas paid to FRANKLIN with a check ton 523, suu and cash or

little chance of the

Forum Motor Lodge going through since bethas been

unable. to get NY 2305-C to push this loan for him.

Informant

told DE FEO: that he should not let NY 2305-C double cross

him on this thing and DE FEO replied, "We'll see what happens."

Incidental to this loan and discussion of NY 2305-C,

source advised that NY 2305-C is currently being sued for

commissions he would have earned by a broker who claims that

NY 2305-C should have put a mortgage through and did not.

Source said he received this information from DAVE WENGER.

(Incidental to this, NY 2305-C was contacted on 6/26/63.

He

advised, during the course of other discussions, that he had

been contacted sometime ago by an attorney named LACH MANDELBAUM

(ph), who was a casual acquaintance.

This attorney. requested

NY 2305-C. to secure for him a mortgage for a gambling set up

located somewhere in Nevada.

NY 2305-C said that rather than

flatly turning down MANDELBAUM, he told him, "I'Il see what

I can do for you."

He stated that he took no action on this

matter and was recently contacted again by MANDELBAUM who

proceeded

to berate NY 2305-C for not helping him get this

loan.

NY 2305-C said he had never promised MANDELBAUM he would

- 5-

DocId: 32327978

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY• 137-9495

i get the loan for him and had never received any money from

MANDELBAUM in connection with the loan. He learned from

MANDELBAUM that this loan did actually go through the ILA

pension fund. He told MANDELBAUM that he had no obligation

to him and he said that MANDELBAUM dropped the matter.

NY 2305-0 was asked if he had made any promises which would

leave him liable to a law suit and he replied definitely not

and that there was no law suit pending. This information

appears to be in conflict with the above information furnished

NY 3936-C by DAVE WENGER.)

Re:/ Sheraton Tenneye 1

Source adwised he has had no further contact with

He said, however, it appears

through, it is his

opinion that LOUIE SUNSHINE will again attempt to secure a

Teamster mortgage for the Sheraton Tenney Motel. He said that

the owners of this

motel have paid $50,000 in "

green" to.

SUNSHINIS

Re: JAMES/RIOGUARDI

The Bureau has received previous information concerning

JAMES DIOGUARDI and his attempts to secure a Teamster mortgage

for the Club 300 in NI through HERBERT BURRIS.

Informant

advised he has received no information concerning DIOGUARDI

except that it is his opinion that DIOGUARDI is presently in

prison in Florida on a fraud matter.

Informant advised that

there is a strong possibility that DIOGUARDI will cooperate

with Bureau Agents concerning Teamster loans if he is approached

at the present time.

Re: JAMES PLUMERI

PLUMERI told the source that he had been unable

to make the proper contact in NY concerning his tax case and

that his case has been forwarded to Washington for review.

He asked the source if he had any contacts in Washington

who could assist him and source advised he will attempt to

, make a contact for him.

- 6-

DocId: 32327978 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY.137-9495

Source advised that PLUMERI told him chat JCHNNY

DIOGUARDI had spoken to MILTIE (probably MILton HoLl secretary-

Treasurer, Local 805, IBT) and told HOLT that he is about to

"break LOU LASKY's back."

LASKY is dealing with NY 3936-C, he will not bother LASKY.

(LASKY is a leading labor racketeering figure in AY who controls

the National Organization of Industrial Trade Unions in Ny.)

Re: BERNARD SPINDEL

Source questioned SPINDEL concerning HOFFA's business

interest in Mexico, but SPINDEL indicated that he did not have

any information concerning HOFFA's investments in Mexico.

Re: NAT VOLOSHEN

Source advised that he was in contact with NAT

VOLUSHEN concerning a proposed purchase of a bank in Florida.

He stated that he could not get his investors to put up any

money for this bank and the deal fell through.

Source advised,

however, that VOLOSHEN told him he had purchased another bank

in Florida.

Re: VINNIE MACCONE (ph)

MACCONE has mentioned to the informant that he has

a sound dered resent:

a source who is in a position to furnish him information

concerning Federal matters. Source advised he has contacted

occasions attempting to identify

individual,

bad and tahie al Reven death me ourte potted

he was "with Internal Revenue."

out that MACCONE's information seemed to be inaccurate and he

MACCONE named

MACCONE subsequently told

him that he had met wich

Thas individual and was told that

DONOFRIO waS

a Special Assistant to the USA in Manhattan.

MACCONE said that this individual lived on 18th Avenue at

about 65th Street in Brooklyn.

Efforts to identify this

individual with Internal Revenue and USA sources have been

unsuccessful to date.

Routine checks have failed to disclose

any individual by this name in the employ of the Department of

Justice or Treasury Department residing in this area in Brooklyn.

This matter is being pursued by

the NO in an attempt to identify

and determine the employment

of FRANK DONOFRIO and source has

advised that he will attempt

in order to further identify

to sit down with this individuate

him

in fact MACCONE

does

such a source.

-7-

ONE SNE

DocId: 32327978

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-9495

K.

Re: Congressman

ST .

GERMAINE

Rhode Island attorney, nor with pis law partner, US Congressman

ST. GERMAINE.

Re: MILTON,

FILLINGER

Source advised that he has been in fairly continuous

cortact with TILLINGER who is a former labor official in the

Ny area and is connected with many labor racketeers. TILLINGER

introduced source to an individual named MC CORMACK,

who is

an oil speculator from Texas.

MC CORMACK is presently attempting

to secure Teamster mortgage money.

Re: ABE®

GORDON

Source advised that ABE GORDON is very close

socially to DAVE WENGER and meets with him on a social basis

amost every week.

It should be noted that USA ROBERT MORGENTHAU, SDNY,

hie or cake doo is source path thig

hospital, but

had been approached to buy it. My.

Re

Fairlawn Hospital Mortgage

Source advised that SAM/@TAMONCA (ph) came to

RUSSO: Vice President of Barchrist construction Company,

to seek a Teamster mortgage.

At that time, GIAMONCA ontrolted

I Bowl Corporation a

and knew RUSSO through this corporation.

russo told GIAMONCA that the informant could handle this mortgage.

GIAMONCA paid approximately $90,000 in "green"and commissions

to secure a Teamster commitment:

Of this amount,

LEONARD RUSSO

received $15,000 in cash.

DAVE WENGER received $40,000 in

cash, and the source received $5,000 cash.

Source was unable

to furnish the distribution of

the $30,000 in checks without

further consulting his records. He

said that this mortgage

was pushed through by DAVE WENGER and that GIAMONCA never

appeared in Chicago before the Teamsters. He said that he gave

-8-

DocId: 32327978

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

i'""

NY 137-9495

JIMMY DOYLE $5,000 from his share of the "green." He said

that he gave this money to DOYLE because originally

(approximately two and a half years ago) DOYLE introduced

tO JACK ME CARE.

MC CARTHY in turn introduced the

source to DAVE WENGER. He said that about this time, DOYLE

also sent the source to JIMMY HOFFA.

Informant advised that

since DOYLE originally put him in with the group to secure

Teamster mortgages, he has promised DOYLE a piece of every

mortgage.

Informant advised that the deal with GIAMONCA

is not completed.

The mortgage commitment is completed, but

GIAMONCA has only a temporary license from the State of

NJ

to operate a hospital and the Teamsters will not furnish the

money until such time as GIAMONCA can get a permanenbolicense.

He said that the hospital is built and operating on temporary

mortgage money furnished by the Chase Manhattan Bank, but it

is absolutely essential that GIAMONCA obtain a permanent

license in order to get the teamster loan to repay the bank.

Informant advised that even if the deal fell through, GIAMONCA

would not be able to get back the commissions paid in advance

since all of the other individuals operated in good faith

in securing the Teamster loan.

Re: EMIL LENCE MU

"Source advised that JIMMY DOYLE promised LENCE

a $350,000 mortgage for the Eastern Parkway Arena, but did

not produce.

LENCE advanced $12,000 to DOYLE and DOYLE

which he is now repaying at the rate of $500 per month. ADDIE

BEVERIDGE,

District counct and Will try to get, through BEVERIDGE,

- 9-

DocId: 32327978 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY. 137-9495

Re: SAL

GRANELLO

Source said he has been recently contacted by

GRANELLO concerning the proposed bays camp to be operated

in the Greenwood Lake area by FRANK MC GUIRE, professional

oasketball coach, and

champion.

that he would be able to put through a Teamster loan immediately

for this boys camp.

Source advised that he personally gave

MC GUIRE a check for $1,000 which MC GUIRE has used as a binder

on the purchase of the land for this camp.

Re: JIM MARTIN

I

BERNARD SPINDEL told the source that MARTIN is a

"racket

guy in Chicago" whohas contacts with one State bank

and one Federal bank which MARTIN claims to control completely.

Source advised that he spoke to JACK PEARLMAN concerning JIM]U

MARTIN and PEARLMAN told him that me

called MARTIN in Chicago and told him he would like to put

through some of the 30 mortgage deals currently pending in

the source's office.

MaRTIn told him to come to Chicago during

the week of June 30

and they would discuss these deals which he

could put through a bank and then an insurance company. Source

advised that MARTIN gets five points in "green" on every loan

he puts through.

He said that LEONARD RUSSO will accompany

PEARLMAN to Chicago to see MARTIN.

Re: WILLIAM BUFALINO

Source advised that he called WILLIAM BUFALINO

in Detroit and told him he had a new legal matter. This

was the conversation previously agreed upon with BUFALINO

which would indicate that he had information of value for

HOFFA.

He stated that he anticipates he will furnish BUFALINO

with information obtained by HERB COHN from MORRIS EMANUEL and

that based on his original comment, BUFALINO indicated he will

meet in the near future with the source to obtain any information

of value.

Re: DAVE WENGER

Source advised that he cashed a $10,000 certified

check from SAMUEL IVES with ROCCO DE CANDIA.

He stated that

DE CANDIA gave him 93 one hundred dollar bills for this check

-10-

DocId: 32327978 Page 11

---

## Page 12

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

/ .

N7.137-9495

and took $700 for cashing the check. He said that these one

hundred dollar bills were all new and were in the same series.

Source made available an envelope containing 25 one hundred

dollar bills.

It was noted that these one hundred dollar bills

ran in a series from B12591417A to B12591441A. He said that

he intends to personally give this money to DAVE WENGER.

Informant further advised that he gave HERB COHN $500 composed

of five one hundred dollar bills which run in the same sequence

of numbers and that COHN will give these five one hundred dollar

bills to MORRIS EMANUEL.

THE ABOVE INFORMATION MUST NOT BE DISSEMINATED

OUTSIDE THE BUREAU IN ITS PRESENT FORM SINCE DISSEMINATION OF

THIS INFORMATTON WILL TEND TO COMPROMISE THIS VALUABLE

INFORMANT.

Appropriate letterhead

on pertinent topics.

memoranda

being prepared

!

-11-

MaiN. 10814

DocId: 32327978

Page 12

---

