# docid-32404638

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10338-10012

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

Released under

the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

06-24-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM

: DARRELL A. JOHNSON

TO : JOHN WRIGHT

TITLE

THIRD AGENCY REFERRALS: OMB

DATE

11/05/1993

PAGES

3

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION

UNIT INDEX

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW

: 01/13/04

COMMENTS : JFK-M-22 :

F13: 20030818-980491 : UNIT INDEX

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10338-10012

HH 53217

DocId: 32404638

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20503.

Now 15 10 47 All '93

NOV 5 195

Mr. John Wright

FOIA and Privacy Act Coordinator

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

Dear Mr. Wright:

DECLASS ICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

Act, the FBI identified two classified documents originated by

your agency. The following documents are being referred to your

the 20220 no

office for consultation:

(1) CIA's Role in the Support of Presidential Foreign

Travel, October 16, 1964.

(2) An Internal OMB Memorandum on Presidential protection

on foreign travel, November 9, 1964.

Please

review the documents and provide me with your

recommendation regarding declassification and release. Please

return the documents, and your response with all applicable

exemptions cited, to

Mr. Arnold E. Donahue, NEOB Room 8215, no

later than November 15, 1993.

Please contact Mr. Arnold E. Donahue on 202-395-4800 should

you have any questions or concerns regarding this matter.

Sincerely,

Johnso

Deputy Assistant Director

for Administration

Enclosures.

I/R-93/5-473

CLASSIFIED BY: MULTIPLE SOURCES

DECLASSIFY ON: OADR

SEGRET

HH 53217

DooId: 32404638

Page 2

---

## Page 3

we copy

11/15/93

Gloria, ' DCI/HRG

Attached is another referral re JFK

to our office in error.

Puttie to ro delication Are tha rai

Thanks

Frieda

"No late, them NSs"

dide

(Wo

istil

"'I sive?

22 November 1993

Dear Mr. Johnson:

for CIA.

In regard

to the first document you cite--"CIA's Role

in the Support of Presidential Foreign Travel, " dated

October 16, 1964--we have determined that it may be released

in full under the terms of the JFK Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992.

(CIA has in fact already released

in full an identical copy of this document from Agency

files, which copy was delivered to National Archives

August, 1993. It may be identified at NARA by CIA's Box #

OSW15,

Folder # V56B1, Document ID # 1993.06.30.11:13:04:

680700.1

CIA's Historical Review Group has no objection to the

release in full by the Office of Management and Budget of

the second document you cite--the internal OMB memorandum

"Presidential protection on foreign travel," dated November

9, 1964.

We enclose your documents, appropriately stamped.

Thank you for affording us the opportunity of reviewing

these documents.

Sincerely,

Enclosures

UNCLASSIFIED

WHEN SEPARATED

FROM ENCLOSURES

John S. Carver

Historical

Review Group

SECRET

HH 53217

DooId: 32404638

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

23 November 1993

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Mr. Darrell A. Johnson

Deputy Assistant Director

for Administration

Office of Management and Budget

Executive Office of

the President

Washington, D.C.

20503

ATTN: Mr. Arnold E. Donahue

NEOB Room 8215

SANCTIONS

RELEASE IN FOLL

2000

Dear Mr. Johnson:

This is a reponse to your letter of November 5, 1993; to

Mr. John Wright, the Information and Privacy Coordinator for CIA.

In regard to the first document you cite--"CIA's Role in the

Support of Presidential Foreign Travel," dated October 16, 1964--

we have determined that it may be released in full under the

terms of the JFK Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992.

CIA has in fact already released in full an identical copy of

this document from Agency files,

which copy was delivered to

National Archives in August, 1993. It may be identified at NARA

by CIA's Box #OSW15, Folder #V56B1, Document ID #1993.06.30.

11:13:04:680700.)

CIA's Historical Review Group has no objection to the

release in full by the Office of Management and Budget of the

second document you cite--the internal OMB memorandum

"Presidential Protection on Foreign Travel," dated

November 9, 1964.

We enclose your documents, appropriately stamped. Thank you

for affording us the opportunity of reviewing these documents.

Sincerely,

Furl Care

John S. Carve

Historical

Review Group

Enclosures

UNCLASSIFIED WHEN

Central Intelligence Agency SEPARATED FROM ENCLOSURES

Washington, D.C. 20505

(703) 351-2698 Fax (703) 243-8343

SECRET

NW 53217

DocId: 32404638

Page 4

---

