# docid-32305411

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10288-10041

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2717-681

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/28/1962

2

ABR, RES, REL, PLANS VACATION, ASSOC, WEDDING

PICTURES, AVAILABLE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305411 Page 1

395

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-41 (Rev. 3-5-5-2)

0112018,

les.

4461016606.

вліт .

Radio

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahah

songac

Delo

sinsi

Mal on

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

xx Teletype

URGENT 8-28-62

7:27 PM EDST

SCA

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC MIAMI

FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA

282327

ANGELO BRUNO, AKA, AR, DAILY TEL.

goes /2

PH 623-C* REPORTED BRUNO REMAINED AT HOME AUGUST 27

WITH VISITORS MAKING LAST ARRANGEMENTS FOR VISITORS TO RETURN

RESPECTIVE HOMES. AUGUSTINE AMATO TAKEN TO INTERNATIONAL

AIRPORT, PHILADELPHIA, P.M. AUGUST 27.

PH 614C-TE REPORTED JOSEPH AND VITO SPITALERI TWO OF

VISITORS TO BRUNO'S HOME AUGUST 27. JEANNE BRUNO PUPPO

AND HUSBAND DEPARTED AUGUST 27, TO VISIT MIAMI, BERMUDA,

PUERTO RICO AND JAMAICA. BRUNO HINTED HE AND WIFE PLAN TO

TAKE VAGATION SOON, ASSUMED TO BE MAIC 38 92-27/7-681

REUBEN ROBINOVITZ EMPLOYED BY BRUNO TO TAKE ¡COLOR MOTION

PICTURES OF WEDDING TODAY AGREED TO FURNISH

DEVELOPED, FILM FOR.

FBI REVIEW AND WILL BE AVAILABLE EITHER WEDNESDAY OR THURSDAY @

NEXT. BUREAU SUTEL IF POSSIBLE TO REPRODUCE DEVELOPED FILM

IF HAND CARRIED TO WOC WHEN AVAILABLE. FILM ONLY AVAILABLE

24 HOURS. MAIL COPY NEW YORK.

SUBJECT DANGEROUS

RECEIVED:

1.10

15085 1002

7:36 PM

JPL

the adr

dead for

@e.ih.con..e

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId:32305411 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-41 (Rev. 3-5-63)

assination

Recorts

DECODED

COPY

frie

744 050

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr :

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

Note)

Radio

* Teletype

URGENT 8-28-62 7:27 PM EDST

SCA

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC MIAMI

FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA: 282327

ANGELO BRUNO, AKA, AR, DAILY TEL.

PH 623-C* REPORTED BRUNO REMAINED AT HOME AUGUST 27

WITH VISITORS MAKING LAST ARRANGEMENTS FOR VISITORS TO RETURN

RESPECTIVE HOMES AUGUSTINE AMATO TAKEN TO INTERNATIONAL

AIRPORT, PHILADELPHIA, P.M. AUGUST 27.

PH 614C-TE REPORTED JOSEPH AND VITO SPITALERI TWO OF

VISITORS TO BRUNO'S HOME AUGUST 27 JEANNE BRUNO PUPPO

AND HUSBAND DEPARTED AUGUST 27, TO VISIT MIAMI, BERMUDA,

PUERTO RICO AND JAMAICA. BRUNO HINTED HE AND WIFE PLAN TO

FAKE VACATION SOON, ASSUMED TO BE MIAMI.

REUBEN ROBINOVITZ EMPLOYED BY BRUNO TO TAKE COLOR MOTION

ICTURES OF WEDDING TODAY AGREED TO FURNISH DEVELOPED FILM FOR

REVIEW AND WILL BE AVAILABLE EITHER WEDNESDAY OR THURSDAY

BUREAU SUTEL IF POSSIBLE TO REPRODUCE DEVELOPED FILM

HAND CARRIED TO WDC WHEN AVAILABLE.

FILM ONLY AVAILABLE

HOURS. MAIL COPY NEW YORK.

SUBJECT DANGEROUS.

EIVED:

Fred well adrid it.

Slung

Phila

action

7:36 PM

JPL

handled min

Virgin

ju bl ded

Hode did

the will the she righ

contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that-it-

ler to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32305411

Page 3

---

