# docid-32331175

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/10/201

Agency Information

• AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90096-10121

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2989-166

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SEE TITLE

[Restricted]

[Restricted]

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS,:

00/00/0000

3

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32331175

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ReDeTE: under thE VAL CANADIAN MOURTED" POLICE ColLection Aot

01 1992 111 USC 2107 Hote)

DIVIS

LENO 6330-1182734 0003N0

AD:VISION

"Ọ".

PROvINCE Ontario

RE:

SUB-DIVISION

DETACHMENT

TORONTO C.I.B.. GENERAL

DATE 13 FEB. 63

Charles TOURINE, aka,

FILE

REFS

Foreign Police Cooperation,

ASST. TO F.B.I.

"6. FEB 63"

1..

MrS. Lee CARPENTER, Apartment Building supte,

HEADQUARTERS

62:0-1180-1-0-56

stated that on 1 Aug. 58, PULLMAN leased apartment 703,

120 Rosedale Valley Road, Toronto, Ont. for $260.00 per

month. He owned a Cadillac of the current year and had

various original and expensive paintings which were

SUB DIVIBION

purchased in Europe. The renovations in his apartment

were quite lavish as well as his living habits. He

appeared to have had few male friends, however, did

have a large variety of women companionship. During

the last two months that he resided in the apartment,

PULLMAN lived common-law with an unknown woman who was

DETACHMENT

63-5-30

approximately 25 years of age. During the month of June

1959, PULLMAN left the apartment and indicated that he

was moving to Florida with the intention of purchasing

a Co-op Store. PULLMAN has not been heard of since.

P.C.R. 0.T.So

7-1-63

Mr. William DILLON, Apartment Building Supt.,

800 Eglinton Ave., W., Toronto, Ontario, stated that he

was acquainted with John PULLMAN from 1948 to 1958• It

is belleved that PULLMAN 1s a Russian Jew. In addition

of being aware that his parents were local residents,

It was commonly known that they were quite poor. As a

result of his mother's death, John PULLMAN purchased a

small bungalow on Wineva Avenue, Toronto for his father

who died shortly thereafter. The surviving members of

A.R.V. No

the PULLMAN family are as follows: Mrs. A.C. COWAN (nee

Ann PULLMAN), Douglas Drive, toronto, Ont. Her husband

is quite wealthy and is believed to be in the insurance

business. PULLMAN has a second sister residing in Toronto,

Sgt.

•de C.I.B. Gen

name unknown, a third sister, name unknown, who is a

resident In Windsor, Ont., and a fourth sister, name unk-

nown, residing in California and one brother, name unknown,

who operated a Furniture store in Florida. During the time

that John PULLMAN resided at this apartment building, he

made it known that he was more or less responsible for the

construction of the Arcade on Yonge Street, Toronto, Ontog

was a shareholder of the BEXLEY BUILDING, Toronto, Ont.,

that he was connected with the THEATRE on Centre Island,

Toronto, Ont.,

that he was associated with PRINCIPAL

INVESTMENTS and also Real Estate. PULLMAN was a member

of the Primrose Club. He was a pleasant tenant, appeared

DIARY DATE SET FOR

to be wealthy and was not the type of person that thought

poor people were dirt. He travelled a great deal through

the European Continent as well as through the U.S.A. After

PULLMAN moved to Florida, It was rumoured that he got married

DILLON stated that he did not believe that John PULIMAN

was ever Involved in any trouble.

(CONT'D ON PAGE 2)

PILE NUMBERS, HEADINO AND MARGINAL REFERENCE ARE TO DE PROPERLY FILLED IN.

92-2989.166

DocId: 32331175

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John Eh.Kennedy ASSENDataRa Records COllection Act of 1992 (17 USt72107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

DIVISION FILE

RE

Foreign rulice Cooperation,

to F.B.I.

PAGE 2

C.237

CONTINUATION

63-0-7182/54

(CONT'D FROM PAGE 1 )

Mr. Adam ZOLIEK, Chief Accountant, PRINCIPAL

INVESTENTS, 133 Richmond

Street, "., Toronto, Ontario

Informed me

that he has been acquainted with PULLMAN In

a business-like manner from 1955 to 1959. "Due to his

keen interest in women, I doubt the runour that he'is

married". ZOLIEK stated that there is no reason why his

honesty or integrity may be doubted. PULLMAN 1s associated

with PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS as a result of being a share-

holder of three buildings with this Company. The first

building is located at 2747 Bloor Street, W., Toronto.

The known shareholders of this building are as follows;

PRINCIPAL INVESTHENTS -1/3, John PULIMAN -1/6, L. CHESLER

1/6, Ann COWAN (nee PULLMAN)-1/6 and CHILLOW - 1/3. It

1s belleved that CHILLOW is a Trust Fund for John PULLMAN'S

nephews and was originally owned by John PULLMAN. The

cheques for CHILLOW are forwarded to the Canada Trust

Building, 903, c/o henry JUFFY, Windsor, Ont. An average

of $1,000 per month is received by PULLMAN as a result of

the shares owned in this building. He is also 1/4 share-

holder of STRADBROOKE ARCADE LTD., 135 Yonge St. Toronto

and has an annual income from this building of $7,500.

Other shareholders are PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS 1/2 , and

COWAN (brother-in-law) 1/4. It was also established that

he is 1/3 owner of BEXLEY

COMPANY LTD., Toronto and is

receiving an annual income from this source of $5,000

COWAN (brother-in-law) and PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS are

equal shareholders in investment. The mortgage which

is held by the aforementioned shareholders in the three

buildings would be approximately $200,000. At this point,

ZOLIEK Informed me that PULLMAN's portion of the above

revenue which is payable by cheque is mailed to A.C.

COWAN (brother-in-law). In view of the discreet inqui-

ries recommended in this case, I was unable to establish

whether or not the above cheques are forwarded to

PULLMAN. ZOLIEK confirmed the fact that A.C. COWAN 1s

In the Insurance Business and 1s quite wealthy. It was

noted that PULLMAN was previously employed by COWAN

and COLLINS INSURANCE BROKER which at that time was

situated at 133 Richmond St., W., Toronto, Ont. During

this acquaintance I was informed

that PULLMAN also

operated the THEATRE on Centre Island, Toronto in 1954.

As a result of the expropriation of this THEATRE, no

further details were available.

DolId: 32331175

Upon perusing the financial records at DUN &

BRADSTREET, 84 Carlton St., Toronto, It was established

that as of 22 NO

62, PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS.I

Worth was $20,000,000

From 28 DEC 62 until 21 JAN. 63

six Writs of foreclosure and balance of accounts totalling

$536,090 were Issued against PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS. There

records did not indicate whether or not these liens were

settled. However, it would appear that PRINCIPAL INVEST-

MENTS are solvent and financially stable.

(CONT'D ON PAGE 3)

92. 2989-166

FaffLEgNUMBERS, HEADING AND MARGINAL

IRLY FILLED. IN.

---

## Page 4

Refeased under the Johe Harlemegourtney akag, kecords collection act of 1992 (11 uSt 2707 fatey

DivISion FiLE

RE Foreten Police Cooperation,

163-0-1182/54

Assi

PAGE

so F.B.I.

3

C.R57-

CONTINUATION

(CONT'D FROM PAGE 2)

62441180-1-0-561

A check with the M.T.P.D. and the 0.P.P.

revealed no criminal record or complaint against John

PULLMAN. During the course of this investigation, nothing

of a detrimental nature was established.

CONCLUDED HERE

Cst.

H.W. Cascagnette #19607

THE COMMISSIONER

R.C.M.P. OTTAWA

Poorarded For Your Information

FEB 15

1963

SUPT.

/OFFICER V/C GLD.

CONCLUDED

-".'

92-2989-146

DocId: 32331175

Page NUMBER®. HEADING AND MARGINAL REFERENCE ARE TOES PROPERLY FILLED FERTIES

---

