# docid-32332330

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90101-10071

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-4194-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/23/1963

3

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

w9.1

NW 45876 DocId: 32332330

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO: 10

MAY, 1962 EDITION

5010-108

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES

/ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DATE:

SEBJECT:

Director, FBI

SAC, Mlamt (92-463)

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA, aka

AR

April 23, 1963

OTHER 4

'This

7,

On Apr1l 22, 1963,1

Just earned tr-chea

vised SA PRUE C. CLINKSCALES that he had just learned from

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA, FBI NO, 4989299, of Miamt Beach, that V

317

MEROLA contemplates two "shakedown" kidnapings from which hel

expects to obtain considerable money. One of the intended kids!

nap victims 1s GERARDO V. CATENA, aka Jerry, of Newark, New

Jersey, who is known to the Bureau to be a member of the Com-

mission in the La Causa Nostra. Source learned MEROLA is aware

of the fact that CATENA visits the South Florida area periodically.

The other intended kidnap victim is MAXIE RAYMOND, aka

Maxie Eder, who is considered a Lieutenant for MIKE COPPOLA and

looks after COPPOLA's interest in the Fontainebleäu Hotel,

Miami

Beach.

said he learned that MEROLA has already telephoni;

cally contacted AL SEID, aka Al,

and New Kensington, PAnt an GenE MOLA Plesburge

many years. SEID is reportedly the "trigger man" for the MANNARINOs

as his "strong arm" man.

MEROLÃ contemplates the use of a boat Th

for holding the kidnap victims'

WEit arrangements are made for the

pay off money to MEROLA, SEID, OF some designated representatl

Bureau

(Enc

(2) - 92=

-MEROLA.)

26E (10-873

352-87-3989

(1 - 9345172)

(1 - 92-4192)23

82 APR 20

1963

Dipl

(1 5 137-6257)

to

50

MAY Ma 2 2-32-463) (MEROLA) (1 - 87-8049) (MEROLA).

(2 = 92-252) (CATENA) (1 • 92-467) (RAYMOND)

5-3 MAY 21 1963(1 - 92-101) (COPPOLA) (1 - 137-2065) (GRAY)

PCC: amc

(16)

45876 DocId: 32332330

Page 2

13 1

---

## Page 3

OTHER 4

MM 92-463

said that he had been approached by MEROLA to

pick up the money. He said he declined such offer.

Former MM 722-C said he did not learn any details

as to the exact dates or places of the alleged kidnapings of

CATENA and RAYMOND. He continued that it is very unlikely

he w111 learn any further such details, as he declined to

participate by picking up the pay off money.

Source advised that above information undoubtedly

is known to only three or four individuals her than himself

and any utilization or dissemination of this information would

without question seriously jeopardize his personal safety and

even his life. Source advised that for his own personal wel-

fare and safety he intends to contact both CATENA and RAYMOND

in the very near future and advise each of them of MEROLA's

plans and intentions with respect to these alleged kidnapings

shakedowns.

The Bureau is aware from previous correspondence

that JOE MEROLA and MIKE SWIATEK, mentioned above, were in-

volved in a major jewel theft in the Miami area previously,

and MEROLA confided in Departmental Attorney WILLIAM KENNEY,

Miami, of their participation in the same.

By previous correspondence captioned "HENRY HARVEY

HERMAN - VICTIM; KIDNAPING,"' furnished to the Bureau by Miami.

teletype dated January 11, 1961, HERMAN was the victim of a

shakedown kidnaping in the Miami area. Continued reports

have been received and reported to the Bureau indicating other

similar shakedown kidnapings. By teletype dated July 26, 1961,

captioned "mm

C," the Bureau was advised of a contemplated

shakedown kidnaping on the part of MEROLA.

= 2 .

HW

45876 DocId:32332330 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 92-463

OTHER 4

As the Bureau is aware, MEROLA and the informant in

this matter,

Thave been close associates for many

years.

They have been jointly involved in illegal activity in

the past. MEROLA has no visible means of support, however, the

mode of his living is such that he apparently has mlimited funds.

This money could be coming from such shakedown kidnaping activity.

No official complaint has been received concerning a

violation of the Federal law in the previous kidnapings and in-

vestigation and inquiry among informants has failed to reflect

such a violation. Based upon the information furnished as to

the contemplated action, it does not appear a Federal law would

be broken'in this instance. It is also known that in some of

the past previous alleged kidnapings, which apparently took place

according to informants, the victims have even denied these kid-

napings for fear of their lives.

The above is submitted for

and the Bureau will be advised as soon e Bureau's Informstion

reports that he

it is recommended this in

formation not be disseminated to local authorities. There is

attached a letterhead memorandum for the Bureau's consideration

memoted to

in disseminating the same to the Department inasmuch as MEROLA

is known to this office to be a close acquaintance and imformant

of Departmental Attomey WILLIAM KENNEY in Miami.Fe

-3 .

NW 45876 DocId: 32332330 Page 4

---

