# docid-32209990

## Page 1

Date: 08/12/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : WC

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

10: JACOBSEN, JERGEN

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

: 179-40001-10349

1457

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

: 28/17/64

LANE, MARK

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

:U

;: REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

P. 1-2; BOX F07

:

IR]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

, 4W 50529

DocId: 32209990

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIALL

Commission NO.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICEd or Interviewed

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INYESTIGATION ACObEEN, O

WASHINGTON, D.C.. 20535

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

August 17, 1964

ALL INFORMATION CONTAM

MCHARPIS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCERT WHERE SHOWN

STHERWISE

4:2/99

MARK LANE

Classified by 1505 SDe/AHR

Declassify on: OADR AGRID

On August 5, 1964, T-1,

confidential source abroad,

9803

furnished information

as follows:

U)

ROD/ISR

MARK LANE entered Denmark April 9, 1964, from Rome

3-3-93

and stayed at the Hotel Royal in Copenhagon

• on April 9 and

TrN sprciAl

On April 16, 1964, he re-entered Denmark Prom

Apr 11 16 and Id, and he stayed at the Hotel Viking, Copenhagen,

1964, and at the Hotel Skovriderkroen on

April 17 and 18, 1964.

On April 10, 1964, LANE delivered a lecture to the

Students' Union in Copenhagen concerning the assassination of

President Kennedy. In this regard, T-l advised that a known

Danish communist, JORGEN THEILGAARD JACOBSEN, a lawyer, born

April 11, 1919, took the initiative in forming a Danish committee

for the main purpose of obtaining information on the continued

investigations into the assassination.

Further, this committee

intends to have translated and published a book which LANE is

writing on LEE HARVEY OSWALD's part or innocence in the murder. (.)

JACOBSEN and LANE became acquainted sometime ago when

attending the Congress of the International Association of

Democratic Lawyers in Budapest and they intend to continue the

new material on the assassination.

nor nat, 1a on te a vast matroy Ce Danish Committee with all

While in Denmark, MARK LANE was interviewed on April 28;

1964, for eight minutes by.

'the Danish State Television Service C)

In the middle of May, I-l received information that

MARK LANE intended to visit Denmark again and during the after-

noon of May 25, 1964, in Copenhagen he delivered a lecture at

a meeting organized by the Lawyers' Debating Club. On the

evening of May 25, 1964, in Aarhus, Denmark, LANE delivered a

lecture to a meting organized by the Students' Association and

the daily paper "Demokraten." ( C)

CONFIDENTIAL

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassication

77H7 50529

DocId:322099903 Page 2

---

## Page 3

COME PENT TAX

T-1 advised that these lectures were similar to

his previous ones in that LANE gave an account of his

inquiries since the assassination in November and showed

why in his opinion OSWALD could not have been the assassin.

LANE also stated during the lectures that he had

visited Dallas,

Texas, five times; that he was under sur-

velllance by the FBI, which tapped his telophones, and that

he was happy to have

the opportunity of pleading the cause

in Europe as he had gained the impression that this was

being reported by the press in the United States.

C)

LANE's comprehensive material on the assassination.

reportedly has been placed at the disposal of the Danish

on May 26, 1964, LANd departed Copenhagen for Sweden,

France and England, where he was also to deliver lectures. Cl

I-I advised that Who Killed Kennedy Committees

have been established on LANE's initiative in Copenhagen,

Paris and London, all with prominent personalities as

members. C)

According to T-l, LANE returned to the United States

on July 1, 1964.

CONF IDENTIAL

WW: 505295 Docid:92209990

Page

---

