# docid-32316671

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10350-10113

HQ

CR 109-645-65

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

10/09/1961

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

Released under the John

' kennedy

basassination

Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32316671

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

C

LA 105-4223

Source

LA T-1

ADAN MORALES

1020 South Serrano

Los Angeles, california

(Concealed per request)

LA T-2

CSLA 3184-S

SH

23

S

Location

Orally to SA RIDHARD L.

CROMWET,L, and SA MERLE

I. PARKER 9/26/61

and 9/27/61 (Instant Report)

Orally to SA RICHARD I.

CROMWELL 9/26/61

(Instant Report)

TO SA JOSEPH R. SEIBEL

12/5/60

105-9949-2

105-9463-34

2/16/61

105-9463-37

3/22/61

DOCUMENTATION OF ORGANIZATION

Socialist Workers Party

LA 4000-$

-D*-

COVER - PAGE

CB

IAL

NW 54464 DooId: 32316671 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SCORE

LA 105-4223

ADOLFO MAJEWSKI

Real Estate Salesman

3354 Mission Street

San Francisco, California

(11/16/60)

MAJEWSKI, who has knowledge of Nicaraguan activities

in the San Francisco Bay Area, advised that HUGO GONZALEZ and

GUILLERMO MARENCO LACAYO contacted him on November 14, 1960,

and discussed with him the political unrest presently prevailing

in Nicaragua.

By a suitable pretext interview conducted by a

Special Agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation on

December 8, 1960, it was ascertained from the landlady of

the dwelling located at 3350-24th Street, San Francisco, that

HECTOR GONZALEZ and HUGO GONZALEZ were one and the same

individual.

FERNANDO MENDOZA

2154 18th Avenue

San Francisco, California

(12/15/50)

MENDOZA advised SAS WILLIAM A. COHENDET and VADJA V.

KOLOMBATOVIC that HECTOR HUGO GONZALEZ departed from San

Francisco by air on December 6, 1960, for San Salvador to Join

the liberation movement. of INDALECIO PASTORA.

LA I-3 (2/16/61)

During the previous week LA T-3 received a letter from

a contact of his in El Salvador:

This letter enclosed a photograph.

of the body of a man he believed to be HECTOR HUGO GONZALEZ (S

The letter pointed out that (GONZALEZ had been captured by the

SOMOZA troops in Nicaragua and had been tortured and killed.

His

tongue had been cut out,

and his body bore evidence of his having

been brutally tortured.

NW 54464 DooId: 32316671 Page 3

---

## Page 4

IA 105-4223

/GUILLERMO MARENCO LACAYO was at this time residing

with JOAN JORDAN, a member of the San Francisco Branch of the

Francisco.

SWP to

openly support the Liberacion Democratica Pro-Nicaraguan

(LDPN) a San Francisco anti-Somoza organization.

This,

according to the source, was completely contrary to the

policy of the LDPN, as well as to the wishes of the SWP. JORDAN

had been severly criticized by the SWP for her association

with MARENCO because the SWP felt that she would hurt the

cause of the 'IDPN if lt gained the reputation of being

associated

with, the swe.

Honduras.

LA I-3 advised that the receipt of this letter was a great

surprise to him because of the fact he had recently seen the

photograph mentioned above, and had received

news that

GONZALEZ had been captured and killed by the

SOMOZA troops

in Nicaragua.

LA I-3 further auvised that the possibility existed

that someone was merely using GONZALEZis name; however, from

he contents of the letter.

being killed was not true and that the photograph of the body

revious seen by the source was that of someone who resemblec

In his letter, GONZALEZ told of the then recen

expedition into Nicaragua which ended disastrously.

LA T-3

also received an authorization signed by FABIAN RUIZ MAIRENAJES)

and HECTOR HUGO GONZALEZ&which enclosed a summary of the

revolutionary fight in Nicaragua.

This authorization gave

• the

right to translate the whole or part of the study.

The material

referred

to consisted of two pamphlets in the Spanish language.

One, entitled (as translated): "Bloody Intervention - Nicaragua

and

Its People;" depicted on its cover is a soldier bearing

-7-

NW 54464 DooId: 32316671

Page 4

---

