# docid-32297465

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10219-10241

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2914-301, 302, 303

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO : SAC, PG

TITLE:

DATE:

11/20/1963

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

GM, SMO, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, TAX FRAUD, EVASION,

TRIAL, ATTEMPTS, JUROR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC A/T, RGM, NOTE

v9.1

NW 45852 DocId: 32297465

Page 1

• 13

---

## Page 2

"sier 9412-63)

• AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

I CABLEGRAM

1 XXXRADIO

TELETYPE

Tolson

CliFolmon

Mohr -

Elisper

Callahan

nrad

eLoach®

Evans.

Gale

Rosen

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes !

Gandy .

URGENT™

11-19-63

NO. DIRECTOR.

FROM SAC PITTSBURGH

191745

ANTIRACKETEbRING

GABRLEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR. SAMUEL MANNARINO

?: AKA, Ano

ON NOVEMBER 18 LAST, SELECTION OF A JURY, WAS MADE AT

CONMENCEMENT OF TRIAL OF MANNARINO BROTHERS AND THEIR ASSOCIATES.

ON CLEAN NO EMER 1A LAY PAN AND EVASION.

CON NOVEMBER 18 LAST, POI

JR.,. ADVISED

SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, 111, AS FOLLOWS:

ON THAT DATE AT ABOUT 4:30 PM, SAM MANNARINO STATED THEY

INTENDED TO TRY TO GET TO MRS BROWN, WIFE OF ALLEGHENY COUNTY

JUDGE HOMER S. BROWN, WHO HAD BEEN SELECTED TO THE JURY

USDC, PITTSBURGH, THAT DAY. MANIARINO SAID THE BROWNS LIAR A

DAUGHTER WHO IS GOING WITH THE SON OF PAUL LONG, PITTSBURGHS

RADIO AND TELEVISION NEWS COMMENTATOR, AND THE APPROÄCH: WOULD

BE MADE THROUGH PAUL LONG.

WHEN ASKED HOW HE KNEW CONG WOULD

1,60

FOR THE DEAL, MANNARINO LAUGHINGLY SAID HE WAS POSITIVELONG:

WOULD GO FOR IT. IT IS NOTED THAT JUDGE BROWN AND HIS WIFES

MRS. WILLHELMINA B. BROWN, ARE OF THE NEGRO RACE AND THE PAUL

LONG FAMILY IS CAUCASIAN.

THE ABOVE INFORMATION HAS BEENA

FURNISHED TO USA GUSTAVE DIAMOND, PITTSBURGH, WHO WILL COMVÉNCE

DRESENTATION OF THE GOVERNMENT CASE AGÄINST SUBJECT ON NOVEMBEF

1190

INSTANT, ON CHARGES OF INCOME TAX EVASION.

USE DIAMOND REQUESTEE

THAT NO ACTIVE INVESTIGATION BE MADE TO PROVE OR DISPROVE THE,

ABOVE ALLEGATION, AT, THIS TIME FOR FEAR OF JEOPARDIZING. THE CÂSE

1 52

IN

423

RECAB

12-2914-30

UNRECORDED COPY

airtilsent to P9

41/19/03

2 NUV 22 1963

241

NOV 26 1963

The ence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to-protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

OTHER 4

HW

45852

DocId: 32297465

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-36 (Rev. 12/13-56)

FBI

Date:

11/22/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

To: Director, FBI (92-2914) (92-2918)

From: SAC, Pittsburgh (92-236) (92-228) (p)

Subject:

GABRIEL MANWARINO, aka

AR

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka

00 - Pittsburgh

Remyrad 11/19/63 and Buairtel 11/20/63.

On 11/21/63, PCI L

advised

SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III as follows:

On 11/20/63, SAM MANNARINO stated that the "contact"

has been made with "Judge Brown's wife."

MANNARINO did

not indicate that the results of the contact had been

successful from his point of view and, in fact, appears to

be deeply, worried about the outcome of the trial. MANNARINO

changed one part of his story in that he now referred to

Judge BROWN's son going with the daughter of PAUL LONG,

rather than BROWN's daughter going with LONG's son, as had

been previously stated.

The above information was furnished to USA GUSTAVE

DIAMOND, Pittsburgh, Pa., on 11/21/63.

The trial of the MANNARINOs in USDC, Pittsburgh,

on income tax fraud and evasion charges, is estimated by

USA DIAMOND to be about half over and may be concluded by

Although a report is slightly past due in each

of the MANNARINO cases, Pittsburgh will, in the interest

of continuity, delay the reports until the conclusion of

trial VACB.

REC- 56

C G. Wick,

49039023

-2914-302.

SUBJECTS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

Bureau

Pittsburgh

TGF : mzw

6)

_XEROX

NOV 27 1963

EX. - 117

120

NOV 25 1963

iu.

6

Sent

_ M

Per

Special Aged

in Charge

241

NW 45852 DocId: 32297465 Page 3

OTHER 4

---

