# docid-32301079

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10277-10414

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 97-4474-150

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 09/26/1964

• PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, ASSOC, ACA, INFILTRATION, PINAR DEL RIO

PROVINCE, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC A/T

v9.1

NW 45881

DocId: 32301079

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONEBENTIAL

IN CONTAINED

LASSIFIED

SHOWN

10/1/64

Airtel

ALL INFORMA

HERBIN IS U

EXCEPT WH

OTHERWISE

1

2725198

11/8

TO:

SAC, Miami (105-2855)

Classified by 3066TAGCL

From: Director, FBI

• 61(97-4474) - 150

Declassily on: OADK

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

IS - CUBA

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

NEUTRALITY MATTRRSLASSIFIED BY 5668-5LD/KSR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

oN 9-12-92

(JFK)

IN THIS DOCUMENT, Jm

ReBuairtels 7/24 and 9/2/64 with enclosures.

9-8-97

ttached 13 CopY Of CLA Intelligence Information Cabl

dated 9/26/64.

including key source

i and contget enronelate enure

es and informants,

and check with interested

Government agencies

for any indication mission planned for night

of 9/25/64 has taken place.

Miant be certain Bureau and interested%

agencies are kept advised of all pertinent information received

concerning activities of captioned anti-Castro organization.

Mamt, in addition, endeavor to identifyL"Jack" who is

reportedly staying at a motel in Miami. Note that the specific ba

address of this notel is furnished? Any pertinent information

developed in this regard should be submitted in form suitable for

dissemination and should include succinct sumary of pertinent

information (Contained in attached CIA Intelligence Infornation

(u)

Cable JEAN (u)

CIA INFO BE/ANOZ) CLASSIFIGO

Enclosure

MAILED 5:

ASOUPERADEO TO SECRET PER

OCT 1 - 1964

9803 odd/ge #21/316 3/26/92

VHN: gci

(4)

COMM-FBI

SEE REVERSE

SIDE

CLASVIFICATION

"TLO

NOTE:

Captioned anti-Castro organization has been involved in

Tolson

carrying out air attacks over Cuba. Recently official of captioned

Belmont group indicated that one "Jack" was to be infiltrated into Cuba on

Casper -

the night of September 25, 1984, by parachute from small plane

Callahan that was scheduled to leave from unidentified area in Florida

DeLoach keys] This information(was received from CIAland has been

Gale

disseminated to the interested agencies both at headquarters level

Rosen

and in Miami.

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

JAITH SONER

Holmes

1980

NTIAL

Gandy

MAIL. ROOM V

SECKED

18.11-19

(u)

OTHER 4

NW 45881

DocId: 32301079

Page 2

---

