# docid-32319773

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 194 05C 2107 hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10372-10105

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-1353

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

IRD

TO: OGC

TITLE:

DATE: 10/08/1996

'PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/05/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32319773

118

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-11-2017

ras (12/3171995)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence: ROUTINE

Date: 10/08/1996

To: Office General Counsel

Attn: Mr. R. Feitel, Rm. 7927

From: Information Resources

JFK Task Force, Rm. 6362

Contact: Carol L.

Keeley, Ext. 9494

Approved By: OBrien J Kevi

Drafted By: Keeley Carol L:olk

Case ID #: 62-HQ-1029205 (Pending)

Title: JFK ASSASSINATION RECORDS

COLLECTION ACT (JFKARCA)

Synopsis: Results of a review of Assignment Oswald written by

retired SA James P. Hosty.

Reference: 62-HQ-1029205 Serial NR 07/15/1996

Enclosures: Enclosed is a copy of the letter from James J.

Gilligan, Esq. to Robert Feitel, Esq., dated 09/11/1996.

Details:

The JFK Task Force (JFKTF) was requested by

Robert J. Feitel, Esquire on 9/19/96 to review the book

Assignment Oswald with the issues noted in James J. Gilligan's,

Departmental attorney, letter of 9/11/96.

Upon a review of this

book, several topics not previously mentioned were noticed.

The

following areas could pose potential problems, since no prior..

public release could be tound containing this information.

1)

The information that Supreme Court Chief Justice

Warren was involved in an affair. According to

Hosty's book, this was discovered by the FBI during -

their background investigation.

Although Hosty states

that the press, at that

time, hinted at problems in

Warren's background, no public information could be

found by the JFKTF concerning Warren and an affair.

Further

RECORDED COPY FILED IN

711869610.

то риналу

the assignment cards are areas of concern.

The FBI'S

Manual of Rules and Regulations (MRR) for the 1960's

provides direction on the handling of this type of

material.

explains, "Upon the completion of an investigation, the

employee may retain the duplicate assignment card for

not more than 90 days.

The original is to be filed by

month and by classification and file number, retained

by chief clerk for one year, and then destroyed. "

The

Narkin

papis delicher

DocId:32319773

Page 2

197-11Q-1184400

ISF

---

