# docid-32291190

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10206-10466

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4133-1ST NR 153

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NHT 54027 Date:

08-29-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE: we

DATE :

01/19/1967

'PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

06/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32291190

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

BY SPEmKI

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 6/20

MEMORANDUM

CIA HAS NO OSIRCTION TON 1967

- DECLASH

15/0R

SUBJECT :

Raul W. PELEGRINA

RELEASE L DA IDFORMATION W

OM. R. R.

IN THIS DOCUMENT: MKA 2-66-98

10

A representative of this Agency reported on

that Raul W. PELEGRINA called our

representative to report that the lino Dias group which

he had previously reported on, now had obtained a farm

near FAJARDO near Los Coabas to be used by them as a

training site.

The group planned to train about fifty

men at this farm and had asked PELEGRINA to do the

training.

Some of the trainees were to be brought to

Puerto Rico from the United States.

The group also

now had three boats that were capable of carrying

15-20 people each.

The group had $50, 000 worth of arms

and ammunition, mostly United States M-l's and other

WWII surplus weapons.

So far the group had asked him

to repair a P-38 Walthers.

They are trying to rush the

training and are anxious to get started with the invasion.

2.

Haiti,

PELEGRINA also reported that the Consuls of

Costa Rica,

and Paraguay, in Puerto Rico, have

been attending the

meetings of

this group and apparently

are supporting the intentions of the group and possibly

lending material support.

3.

According to PELEGRINA, one Roberto ROCA is

the leader of the Puerto Rican section of the Nino Diaz

group.

They have a 110 foot boat that is being made

seaworthy in the Miami, Florida, area.

They have asked

for a 25 mile radar from the United States Government.

Our representative reiterated to PELEGRINA

that he should report his information to Mr. John HAMMETT

the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Puerto Rico

and to follow whatever instructions HAMMETT gave him.

W

JHe told our representative that he has been meeting with

HAMMETT about once a week and just wanted to be sure that

our representative was kept informed.

19

liter

Turnals

97-4133-

Checa

NOT RECORDED

97-4633 mAn)

138

176 JAN 26 1967

TO JAN

B19571

Ton 70 JAN 311907 - 33

Excludos

dormorta

declassinicatisa

PER CIA

ORIGINAL FILED IM

3H-

15859-

DECLASSIFIED BY SCle

540

ON

3-5-98

105-16.0441

NW 54027 DooId: 32291190

Page 2

---

