# docid-32300090

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10226-10370

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-273

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LV

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/24/1961

1

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, ASSOC, BAKER, SAM, MURDER, LV, NV

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

19.1

DocId: 32300090

Page 1

397

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection

DATE: 41-14-2017

4-41 (Rev. 6-2-61)

DECODED/ COPY

of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad®

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

Radio

• Teletype

URGEN

6-24-69

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

O DIRECTOR AND SAC, CHICAGO

DATEA-20-84

IS UNGLASSIFIED

FROM SAC, LAS VEGAS 240205

gen'

SAMUEL MO

"GLANCANA, AR, 00: OG. RE LU TEL JUNE ZZ INSTANT

TO CG. DMV, CARSON CITY, NEVADA, ADVISED 23 INSTANT, NEVADA

LICENSE C-63414 LISTED TO PHYLLIS MO QUIRE, NOTE SPELLING,

AT DESERT INN HOTEL, LAS VEGAS, REGISTERED TO A 1961 CADILLAC

CONVERTIBLE, VIN 61F111647. NO OTHER INFORMATION PRESENTLY

AVAILABLE.

PCI ANDREW FAVA, PROTECT, ADVISED 23 INSTANT HE

RECEIVED INFORMATION SAM BAKER AKA, SALVATORE PANETERI, LANDLORD

ANJOE'S RESTAURANT, IS POSSIBLY GOING TO CHICAGO IN NEAR FUTURE.

IN THE EVENT INFO CAN BE DEVELOPED RE BAKERS ITINERARY, LV WILL

IMMEDIATELY ADVISE CG SO PHYSICAL SURVEILLANCE CAN BE CONDUCTED

TO ASCERTAIN HIS CONTACTS. IN VIEW OF GOOD POSSIBILITY, BAKER

WILL CONTACT SUBJECT. BAKER DESCRIBED WMA, DOB AUGUST 14, 1904.

CHICAGO, ILLO, 5 FEET 11 INCHES, 250 LBS, BLACK HAIR, BROWN

EYES. CG, REFER YOUR FILE 92-453 RE SAM BAKER. LV-10-C ADVISED

23 INSTANT PHYLLIS MC QUIRE MADE TELEPHONE CALL TO CHICAGO LATE

PM 22 INSTANT BUTCI UNABLE TO OBTAIN NUMBER OF PERSON CALLED.

TRACING OF CADILLAC FROM FACTORY IS LEFT TO DISCRETION OF 00.

ON MARCH 26, 1948 SAM BAKER SHOT AND KILLED A MAN AT LAS VEGAS

NEVADA, AND

SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

GIANCANA

ARMED AND DANGEROUS. NEW YORK AND LOS ANGELES ADVISED BY AM. U

RECEIVED:

7:33 AM RADIO

7:45 •AM: CODING UNIT

REC-94

BLH

92-3/21-273

80 JUN 26 1961

RELAYED TO CHICAGO 18

G2 JUN 201967 de Sta

f the intelligence contained in the above message is to

be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32300090 Page 2

---

