# docid-32297049

## Page 1

„Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10218-10325

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3267-649

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

SAC, LA

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

01/22/1965

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

JRO, ASSOC, TORTORA, TANCREDI, AKA, BKG, CRIMINAL

ACT, DESCR, RCK

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32297019

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-113 G

Arrest No. 5040 on 5/15/34 and his subsequent removal to

Boston for

trial for murder and furnish all available

information contained therein relating to TORTORA's

background and activities.

NEWARK

AT BAYONNE, NEW JERSEY

(1) Will examine INS

records to determine if TORTORA under his true name or

any of his aliases, filed a declaration of intention to

become a U. S. citizen in about 1932.

Will furnish

available background information from the declaration.

Will check records of Bayonne Police

Department for any record of arrest for TORTORA under

his true name or aliases.

3. Will check

same records for any arrest record

fOr JOHN ROSELLI, aka., Felipe Sacco,

Phillipe Sacco or

Philip Sacco, James F. Stewart.

4. Will determine what information the

Bavonne Police Department and logical informants might

nave concernine TORTORA's "Union Siciliano"

activities

during this period (1926-1934).

5.

Will endeavor to verify his operation of

a grocery store at 122 West 23rd Street, Bayonne, New Jersey

from 1929 until May, 1934.

6. Endeavor to ascertain if GUISEPPE GALLO,

who in 1934 was residing at 168 West 21st Street,

Bayonne, New Jersey, is still alive. GALLO came

from

vicinity of Naples,

Italy, and being a close friend of

TORTORA, may also have known ROSELLI (SACCO) and his

family.

The Bureau has advised that information furnished

Oy LA 4448-C-TE that the true name of JOHN ROSELLI, aka..

IS FELIPE SACCO is not to be disseminated outside the

Bureau and is to be given maximum security handling. In

covering

the leads

set out above, it should not be

divulged that the inquiries concerning TORTORA and SACCO

have any connection with the investigation of ROSELLI.

- 5 -

DocId: 32297049 Page 2

---

