# docid-32193975

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD _NUMBER:

124-10260-10409

RECORD_ SERIES:

AT

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER:

89-45-119

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 53025 Date:

05-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PONDER. JOSEPH K.

TO: FILE

TITLE:

DATE: 11/12/1965

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: LHO, POST-RP, SIGHTING, ATLANTA, GA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

01/21/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HW 53025

DocId: 32193975

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FILE (170-19)

SAC JOSEPH K. PONDER

AT 1652-R

11/12/65

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREI.

MULASSIFIED

DATE 9-22. 93BY 4803 RDD/ASR

JFKC

Supervisor JOSEPH G. DEEGAN of the Internal

Security Section at the Bureau called me on the night

of

11/5/65.

He said that a Washington Field source close to

ROBERT SHELTON of the Klan said that SHELTON was angry at

VENABLE because he believes VENABLE has talked to the HUA.

SHELTON said that two weeks before the assassination of

President KENNEDY, VENABLE called SHELTON to arrange a

meeting in Atlanta. They met,

and VENABLE told SHELTON that

he, VENABLI, had a man who had been active in bombings in

Birmingham and that SHELTON might wish to use the services

of this person. VENABLE identified this man as LEE HARVEY

OSWALD.

SHELTON said he then arranged a meeting between

himself, VENABLE, CALVIN CRAIG and captioned informant, at

which time SHELtON had VENABLE repeat his offer regarding the

services of OSWALD.

SHELTON also stated that OSWALD was in Atlanta

at one time when President KENNEDY was scheduled to appear

at a football game.

At the same time, there were demonstra-

tions in Hurt Park, and the President's appearance was

cancelled.

SHELTON said Atlanta papers carried the story

about OSWALD having been in Atlanta.

SHELTON had that day (l-s. 6v)

called CRAIG in Atlanta and requested that CRAIG obtain

copies of the newspapers which would show that OSWALD was

in Atlanta. He said OSWALD stayed at the Marriott Hotel in

Atlanta.

DEEGAN requested contact with the informant to

determine whether the meeting alleged by SHELTON with

informant and others had actually taken place.

I told

DEEGAN that this information seemed very far-fetched and

pointed out that there was no Marriott Hotel or Motel in

1170-19

189-45 (LEE HARVEY OSWALD) C

I-JAMES R. VENABLE (157-370)

87-45-119

1-157-996

(House Committee on Un-American

Activities)

JKP: ghb

SEARCHED

(4)

SERI

INCEXED

NOV 1 2 1965 -

NW 53025 DooId: 32193975

Page 2

---

## Page 3

AT 170-19

Atlanta until October, 1965. After talking to SA's CLAIBORNE

and BEVERSTEIN, I called DEEGAN back and told him that the

informant had advised that no such meeting as that alleged

by SHELTON had

ever taken place.

I also told DEEGAN that

there had been publicity in Atlanta papers regarding they

possibility that OSWALD

had been at an Atlanta motel some-

time prior to the KENNEDY assassination.

A substantial: "

amount of investigation had been conducted by the Atlanta

Office at that time, and nothing was developed to indicate

that OSWALD had actually been here. Some of the reports

of OSWALD having been in Atlanta were found to have originated

with a woman who was a mental case, and these reports were

similar to a number of other wild reports circulated after

the assassination about the alleged previous activities of

OSWALD

DEEGAN advised that no further inquiry was desired.

2-

SEARCHED... INDEXED...

SERIA!P

NOV 1 2 1965

NH 53025

DooId: 32193975 Page 3

---

