# docid-32301106

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10277-10441

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-128

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/24/1964

7

MIRR, ASSOC, OBA, LOPEZ, LUIS DIAZ, ACA, AIR RAID,

CUBA, CRASH, BOMBING, SUGAR MILL

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IC; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC NOTE

v9.1

NW 45881

DocId: 32301106

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Foreija

4-3°(R9r-1-17-63).

GRAM

SECKEL

DECODEGCOPY

• CABLEGRAM

STRADIO

E LETYPE

GIA HAS NO OBJECTION 18

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K

7-2

/47 •AM EST URGENT 6-24-64

TO DIRECTOR

FROM MIAMI 240145

8419.

(JFK):

SFORHATION CONTAINNI

IS HIS LAICIISSIEIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

RWI3B

BUREAU FILE 97-4474.

MIAMI FILE 105-2855.

(MIRRY THERE DETO COEN, NEUTERATIO MATIN

(RECUPERACION BEYOLUC LOMARLA

RE MIAMI TELS JUNE 20, 1964.

ON JUNE 22, 1964

(PROTECT IDENTITY

•"RE REQUEST), A CUBAN (

IN EXILE WHO HAS PREVIOUSLY FURNISHE

RELIABLE INFORMATION IN CONNECTION WITH ACTIVITIES OF THE MIRR

AND SOME PERSONALITIES INCLUDING ITS LEADER, ORLANDO BOSCH,

FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION.

ON JUNE 22, 1964

WAS IN CONTACT WITH

• OADR

classify on:

OF MIRR, WHO TOLD

THE AIR RAID IN

WHICH LUIS DIAZ LOPEZ, PILOT, PARTICIPATED OVER CUBA ON

MUNE 19.

1964 WAS SPONSORED BY THE MIRR.

BY CUBAN GÓVERNMENT SOURCES,

THAT CONTRARY TO REPORTS CURCULNTED A-A

THERE WAS NO SURVIVORS FROM THE

CRASH OF THIS AIRCRAFT.

CLAIMED HE HAD CONFIRMED

THIS THROUGH HIS SOURCES INSIDE CUBA.

CONVERSED ON JUNE 22, 1964 WITH A CUBAN PILOT

• WHOSE NAME

HE IS ATTEMPTING TO ASCERTAIN. - THIS INDIVIDUAL,

WHITE MALE, ABOUT 24 YEARS OF AGE, WITH ABOUT:

NTY HOURS

20 So

16, 44

FOREIGN

.M

97. 4

12(28

64JL98

96457

s JUL 1 1964

cras

» If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be dissem

ated outside

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

FOREIGN

NW

45881 DocId:32301106 Page 2

---

## Page 3

4-3 (Rev-4-17-63) .

SECKEN

•Tolson.

Belmont

Mohr —

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad -

DeLoach

evans -

Gale

DECODED SOPY

• AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

XX TELETYPE

- - - SIA HAS NG OBJECTION TO -

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy =

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

2:47 •AM EST URGENT 6-24-64

TO DIRECTOR

FROM MIAMI 240145

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, K 2-3920 W

ALL INFORAATION CONTAR ANS

NORMATION CONTAINED

HERE." IS UNGLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

HERET IS URCLASSIFIED

BUREAU FILE 97-4474.

DATE ,..

MIAMI FILE 105-2855.

20.

MOV IMLENTO

INSURRECIONAL DE. RECUPERAC LON REVOLUC.LONAR.LA

TERNAL

(MIRR.)

SECURITY-CUBA, NEUTRALITY MATTER

RE MIAMI TELS JUNE 20, 1964.

ON JUNE 22, 1964,

PROTECT IDENTITY

RE REQUEST), A CUBAN PILOT IN EXILE WHO HAS PREVIOUSLY FURNISHED

RELIABLE INFORMATION IN CONNECTION WITH ACTIVITIES OF THE MIRR

lassiled by ‹

117/85

Jeclassity on:. OADR:

AND SOME PERSONALITIES INCLUDING ITS LEADER, ORLANDO BOSCH,

FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION.

ON JUNE 22, 1964_

WAS IN CONTACT WITH LAREDO

RODRIGUEZ, TREASURER, OF MIRR, WHO TOLD

THE AIR RAID

IN

WHICH. LUIS DIAZ LOPEZ, PILOT, PARTICIPATED OVER CUBA ON

JUNE 19,

1964 WAS SPONSORED BY THE MIRR.

RODRIGUEZ TOLD

THAT CONTRARY TO REPORTS

GIRCULATED

BY CUBAN GÖVERNMENT SOURCES, THERE WAS NO SURVIVORS FROM THÉ

CRASH OF THIS AIRCRAFT. RODRIGUEZ CLAIMED HE HAD CONFIRMED

THIS THROUGH HIS SOURCES INSIDE CUBA.

CONVERSED ON JUNE 22, 1964 WITH A CUBAN PILOT

WHOSE NAME HE IS ATTEMPTING TO ASCERTAIN. THIS INDIVIDUAL,

WHITE MALE, ABOUT 24 YEARS OF AGE, WITH ABOUT SEVENTY HOURS

6

VH

97

44:74-128

& JUL 1 1964

82

(SECRET

L/UAR

If the

intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

-OTHER 4

N₩ 45881

DocId: 32301106 Page 3

---

## Page 4

4*3 (Rew. 4-17-63) -

DECODED COPY

O AIRGRAM

O CABLEGRAM • RADIO XxTELETYPE

• Toisóne_

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad -

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy =

PAGE FIVE FROM MIAMI 240145

AIRCRAFT WILL LEAVE FROM MIAMI AREA AND FILE A FLIGHT PLAN TO

FREEPORT, BAHAMAS. AFTER CHECKING THROUGH CUSTOMS, PLANE WILL

FLY TO TREASURE KEY IN UPPER ABACO, BAHAMAS. THE AIRCRAFT

WILL THEN DEPART AT ABOUT 5:30 PM AND LAND AT DARK AT MARSH

HARBOUR WHERE IT WILL ROUNDEVOUS WITH THE SMALL PLANE. AFTER

LOADING, THE TWO ENGINE CRAFT WILL LEAVE AT ABOUT 2 AM AND

PROCEED TO THE ORIGINAL TARGET WHICH IS THE SUGAR MILL LOCATED

NEAR THE CITY OF PUNTA ALEGRE ON NORTH COAST OF CAMAGUEY.

BOSCH EXPECTS JOHNSON TO PROCURE A PILOT AND TWIN ENGINE

AIRCRAFT FOR THIS OPERATION WHICH IS YET IN PLANNING STAGES,

ALTHOUGH BOSCH INDICATED HE WAS GOING TO SEND LUIS (LNU) TO

MARSH HARBOUR THIS WEEK FOR ORIENTATION PURPOSES. JOHNSON

DESCRIBED LUIS AS A WHITE MALE, ABOUT 33 YEARS OF AGE, MOUSTACHE,

SHORT STOCKY BUILD, WHO IS A US CITIZEN.

ALL INTERESTED GOVERNMENT AGENCIES BEING ADVISED LOCALLY.

MIAMI ADVISING [GREGG BENTLY, SPECIAL BRANCH, BAHAMAS POLICE.](CM)(U)

MIAMI MAINTAINING CONTACT WITH JOHNSON AND OTHER LOGICAL SOURCES

REGARDING THIS MATTER. BUREAU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED OF PERTINENT

BUREAU WILL BE KEPT AVISED HER 43/0

• RECEYED: 4:25 AM RDR

Sata in pga 445 male, genin to: n

Tohn Davitt, lept 6/30/68 ba, U. Nasca.

empiomed ty

"рівні вна

And sisted one

inch outguny

Cogy witch

P.D. Putateu

UsConal Guard-LT RAh 2 del Sionio ly DO Pratuem

отом -н к. сосовь Ал, 0. Н. ВалЁйТИ

010- Me. Jare Boman-by Sol Papict,

R. H. Naugura

97-4474-128

If the intelligence contained in the above message is

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptogra

Scrappied outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

NW 45881 DocId: 32301106 Page 4

---

## Page 5

4-3 (Reva 4517-63) .

SECRED

DECODED COPY

• AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM DJ RADIO XX TELETYPE

• Tolson A.

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper.

Callahan

Conrad _

De Loach

Evan's -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes.

_Gandy =

PAGE TWO FROM MIAMI 240145

FLYING EXPERIENCE, TOLD

HE AND ANOTHER CUBAN PILOT,

NAME NOT DISCLOSED, DURING RECENT PAST, HAD BEEN MAKING

PRACTICE RUNS IN A CESSNA AIRCRAFT IN BAHAMA ISLANDS PREPARATORY

TO PARTICIPATION IN AIR RADD ON CUBA WITH LUIS DIAZ LOPEZ..!

THIS INDIVIDUAL TOLD

RAID WAS ORIGINALLY SCHEDULED FOR

SUNDAY, JUNE 21, 1964, BUT FOR SOME UNKNOWN REASON, PRESSURE

WAS BROUGHT TO BEAR TO CARRY OUT RAID ON JUNE 19, 1964. THE

TWO UNIDENTIFIED PILOTS WERE UNABLE TO GO, THEREFORE, THEY WERE

REPLACED BY OTHER CREW MEMBERS.

ON JUNE 23, 1964, WILLIAM JOHNSON, PILOT, (PROTECT IDENTITY

PER REQUEST), WHO HAS BEEN CHARACTERIZED PREVIOUSLY AS HAVINGS

BEEN INVOLVED IN CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES FOR SEVERAL

YEARS AND WHO HAS FURNISHED INSUFFICIENT INFORMATION TO EVALUATE

HIS RELIABILITY, ADVISED AS FOLLOWS.

ON EVENING OF JUNE 22, 1964, JOHNSON MET WITH ORLANDO

BOSCH AT BOSCHS REQUEST. JOHNSON WAS ACCOMPANIED BY FRANK ANTHONY

STURGIS, AKA FRANK FIORINI, AMERICAN ADVERTURER AND SOLDIER

OF FORTUNE, AND MICHAEL RAFFERTY, JOHNSONS ASSOCIATE IN MIAMI

USED CAR BUSINESS.

BOSCH, WHO WAS ACCOMPANIED BY SOME MEMBER OF MIRR, RELATED

FOLLOWING: BOSCH SAID AIR RAID OVER CUBA WHICH WAS CARRIED OUT

JUNE 19, 1964, WAS AN INDEPENDENT SPUR OF THE MOMENT OPERATION,

IN WHICH DIAZ, A MEMBER OF THE MIRR WANTED TO PARTICIPATE.

BOSCH CLAIMED TO HAVE SUPPLIED ONLY THE BOMBS FOR THE

OTHER 4

'SECRET

Made intellige de cot ired in the aurue me so is to be sisteminated outside the Bureau, it is suffested ihat it be suitably

NH 45881 DocId: 32301106 Page 5

---

