# docid-32310531

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

• Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10303-10145

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 58-2000-63

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

ROSEN, A.

TO: TAMM, E. A.

TITLE:

DATE: 09/25/1947

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

PRJ, INTV, ASSOC, GAMBLING MACHINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/24/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF TRS

COMMENTS : REFERRED TO TRS

v9.1

DocId: 32310531

13

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy AsSassination Records Colledtion Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

6 DATE: I1-14-2017

STANSARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

CONFIDENTIAL

TO

me of Call: 3:45 P. U.

DATE: September 25, 1947

Mr.

Tolson

A. Taru

FROM

SUBJECT:

Mr. E. A.

damn

pale Rosen

LOUIS CAMPAGNA,

BRIBERY

AL

CLASS.

8 E

REASON-FCI

BY

II,

BD

DECLAS

Egan

Gurnea

Harbo

Mohr

Pennington

Quinn Tamm

At the above time Special Agent John Speakes at Mexico City

Room

MiEs

Nease

Holmes

was contacted regarding the report by Louis shainmark of the Chicago

M18s

Gandy

Herald-American that Arno Merkel had turned information over to the

Mexican authorities regarding sone slot machines allegedly delivered to Merkel

in Mexico City, which delivery was refused when Merkel found that the machines

were coming from a group of Chicago hoodlums.

Mr. Shainmark alleged that the

Mexican authorities turned the information over to the FBI, and that FBI Agents

interviewed Merkel in Mexico Citya (Ul

Ir. Speakes stated that this intormation was not correct in that the

ciles of the Mexico City Office contained no information that Arno terkel wa,

referred to the Mexico City office by the Mexican authorities or was interviewed

by Bureau representatives in Mexico. Mr. Speakes stated that he would definitely

recall if any such contact was

made inasmuch as Arno werkel is the father of Una

werkel, the motion picture actress.

The Bureau files were checked negatively regarding Mr. Shainmark's allega-

tion that Merkel or anyone contacted our Mexico City representatives regarding the

slot machinese:

The only information Special Agent Speakes could recall concerning slot

machines in Mexico concerned an interview of one hugene Lawrence satcher on

August 27, 1946, by representatives of the U. S. Treasury after Satcher had been

arrested for deportation by Mexican authorities as an undesirable alien. This

interview,

as is noted above, occurred over one year ago, while Mr. Shainmark

stated that the transaction which he was reporting occurred some six months ago..

The subjects of the captioned case were paroled on August 13, 1947.

viewed by the Treasury representatives, Satcher advised that his reason for coming

to ilexico was to handle an assignment given him by Marcus ulpsky in arranging for

the payment of Lipsky's claim against Lloyd's Insurance Company. of London for thi

damage done to seventeen slot machines and forty pinball machines while they wer

being

transported by truck from Dallas, Texas, to Mexico City. The equipment,

according to Satcher, was consigned to Paul Rolant/Jones in January 1946, and

- Lipsky allegedly gave Satcher a power of attorney to arrange the settlement with

the insurance company for the claim of $20,000.00, American money.

presented the documents, however, he knew the documents had no value and that

previously Jones had presented a

different power of attorney só that he cutla

arrange with the insurance company the corresponding claims and indemnties.

A Bureau representative in Mexico City was present from July 27 to

August 3,

1946, during an

interview of Paul Roland Iones, and in discussing his

ALL INFOR TON CONTANED

158-26101-

110/1394 SO8 TREX

18

20 OCT & Mr?

DATE

7-7-80 BYSPIGSKLMLE

(JFK)

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32310531

Page 2

---

