# docid-32312788

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10325-10037

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

HQ

105-99938-6

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53130 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: PH

TITLE :

DATE: 08/30/1961

' PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

CUBAN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:, Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 53130

DocId: 32312788

Page 1

---

## Page 2

I

rahoe

arrell

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach _

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Roo

Ingram

Gandy

SAC, Philadelphia

8/30/61

Director, FBI

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HENCES UNCLASHED

DATE 2/12/980/57168-310/ude

CUBAN MATTERS • COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

laces.

IS - CUBA

Buded 9/11/62

HereR of SA John I. Wineberg dated 8/21/61

entitled

areThaaka, Is - Cuba, RA - Cuba."

Infor-

Waken saludden pages four and flue of referenced report

showsPH 503-S possesses information indicating lorera feels

one of the members attending a meeting of the July 2oth

Movement in Philadelphia on d/5/02 was not fully trusted.

Referenced report reveals there were only seven persons

present at that meeting, including Morera and the informant.

Determine from PH 563-s and any other sources

available to your office identity of all July 26th members

in attendance at the mentioned meeting. Fully identify

individual believed to be untrustworthy by Morera.

In the

event you have no pending investigation regarding that

individual, institute some immediately and fully deternine

his background and degree of activity in

July 20th Movement

in Philadelphia.

The element of distrust in one of his followers

evidenced by the new leader of the July 26th Movement in

Philadelphia provides an excellent opportunity to create

disruption and dissension within the ranks of the pro-cuban

organizations in Philadelphia.

An aggressive counterintelli

gence program directed against the weak point evidenced by

Morera's distrust should be inmediately instituted.

sulet by 9/11/61 incorporating identity of

individual suspected by Morera and positive recommendations la

for action by your office to seize this opportunity for

institution of a counterintelligence program againstthe

pro-Cuban element in Philadelphia.

Take no action to implement

such a program prior to Bureau authority for same.

Extra copies of this letter are being furnished

Miguel salvador Morer des

- 97-3938 (July 26th Movement,

2 - 105-85774 (Miguel Morera)

Philadelphig

AUG

180 1961 CPA

ERH: ams

(9)

AUG2 g 1961

PO SEP

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

MAN RONG

TELETYPE-UN

the 2 0 192)

NW 53130 DooId: 32312788

Page 2

---

