# docid-32134667

## Page 1

8/28/2014

JFK Full Results

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Released under the John

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10048-10378

RECORDS SERIES : HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-5061

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : GEMBERLING, ROBERT P.

TO

: DIRECTOR,

FBI

TITLE : [No Title]

DATE

: 10/08/1964

PAGES :

277

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS

LHO, SUMMARY REPORT,

EVID

CLASSIFICATION

:UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:07/26/1996

OPENING CRITERIA

: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RET,

TABLE OF CONTENTS

PAGES i-iv, INDEX PAGES 250-265

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

Exit JFK

1/2

---

## Page 2

вікс

105.

FD-988 (ReT J(-30)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIÓN

RIPORTINO OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

10/8/64

REPORT MADE BY

ROBERT P. GEMBERLING

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/24/64 - 10/6/64

TIMED BY

jtf

IS - R - CUBA

REFERENCES

Report of SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING dated 9/19/64, at

Dallas.

-- ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ENCLOSURES :

TO THE BUREAU.

DATE 1-43 S5 803 osle.

JFKL

Enclosed herewith and attached to appropriate copies of

this report for the Bureau are two photographs each of Exhibit

D-251 and three copies each of Exhibits C-323 and C-324.

The two photographs of Exhibit D-251 and two copies

each of Exhibits C-323 and C-324 are listed as enclosures for the

President's Commission or its designated representative in the

body of this report with those copies being attached to the copies

of the report that are designated as President's Commission or 1ts

designated representative copies.

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

ApPROVED

COPIES MADE:

10;

- Bureau (105-82555) (Enc. 8) (RM)

- New Orleans (100-16601) (Info) (RM)

- San Antonio (105-2909) (Info) (RM)

-

Dallas (100-10461)

105+

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

82555-50%1 REC

OCT 1 2 1984

REG: 105

TACHIN

HN 33932

REQUEST RECO.

DATE TWO...

HOW FWD..

BY.

red emport

10 / 1167

11t

рее ти

DooId: 32134667

Page 2

SOVIDE

I MAR 14

1:73

Buy Ki, y

Ated a 12/1/76

limitemente

52 AUG 26 1956

---

## Page 3

DI 100-10461

The Bureau's attention is called to the fact that by

Bureau letter dated September 10, 1964, only three photographic

to be handled as exhibits had been handled previously. In view.

of the fact that only three copies were furnished dallas rather

than the usual four, Dallas is retaining one copy in 1ts fles

and the two enclosed herewith are being considered as copies for

the President's Commission or its designated representative.

The Bureau may desire to remove the enclosure page of

this report 11f: 1t dis dissentnated o agencies other than the

President's Commission or its designated representative.

LEADS &

All leads in this case have been set forth by teletype or

airtel in the past and are not being restated herein. Requests

for investigation and allegations are still being received and are

being investigated promptly and will be continued to be reported

in captioned matter.

NEW ORLEANS and SAN ANTONIO: (INFORMATION)

one copy of this report is being furnished each of the

New Orleans and San Antonio Offices

for information In view of the

extensive investigation conducted in those divisions.

INFORMANTS:

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

DI Tol is MM 639-S, who was

contacted on November 11, 1963,

by the Miami Office.

FILE WHERE LOCATED

Instant report, page 212;

per information contained in

Miami letter to Dallas däted

12/9/63 in the matter captioned

"LORAN EUGENE HALL, aKa, WILLIAM

HOUSTON SEYMOUR, - NEUTRALITY

MATTERS", Serial ? of Dallas file

2-68 •

-B-

(COVER PAGE)

HH 53932

DocId: 32134667 Page 3

---

