# docid-32295319

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10215-10095

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2713-467

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

GALE, J. H.

DELOACH

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/12/1968

1

CM, ASSOC, THP ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/11/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32295319

18

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Beleased-under the John F. Kennetty Assasstrai

DATE: 11-14-2017

"T.

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN.

REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

MI. DeLoach

Records

Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

son

Loach

DATE:

1/12/68

Felt

Gale

Nosen 1

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

FROM :

SUBJECT:

J. H. Gale

CARLOS MARCELLO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

SAC, New Orleans,

called at 1:30 p.m.

to advise that Carlos Marcello, New Orleans top hoodlum; had

invited our informant, NO 1435-PC,

Miami this weekend where they would spend a few days while "

Marcello met with his hoodlum associates in that city. Among

these associates would be Santo Trafficante, La Cosa Nostra

leader in Florida.

The New Orleans Office advised that they have $100

authorization for payment to this informant still outstanding

and requested authorization for an additional $2008in order to

provide the informant with sufficient runds to hake this travel.

With the informant in the company of Marcello, it is

extremely likely that significant information can be obtained

con

cerning Marcello's current activities with his hoodlum associates,

in Miami. In view of the mergency nature of this request, and

the benefits to be gained from this payment, New Orleans

was

authorized to expend an additional $200.

ACTION:

To record authorization of an additional $200

informant payment to NO 1435-PC by our New Orleans Office.

REC 8

92-2713-461

EX-113

13 JAN 16 1968

wtfr

Mr.

DeLoach

-

Mr. Gale

г0..

M. F. Row,

ROOm 6112

IB

Bufile 137-14922

Mr. McAndrews

Mr

Kelly

Ju!?

MCA :mfd

(7)

ip.-

STANZTICER

DocId: 32295319 Page 2

---

