# docid-32298377

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10222-10153

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

97-4133-113

Released under the John

*. kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased IT 54027 Date:

b8-29-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, SF

DATE: 08/17/1964

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MRR, SF, CHAPTER, INACTIVE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1.

HW 54027 DocId:32298377 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104

UNITED STATES (C

Memorand

'COi

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4133)

DATE: 8/17/64

• FROM

Ins

Diassified ky 8269

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (105-14902) (C)

Declasstly on: OADR5/3/8/

copies made

SUBJECT:

MOVIMIENTO RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONARIO (MRR)

for review at FBIHQ by

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TUS - CUBA; RA - CUBA;

DECLASSIFICATION AND/ORNEUTRALITY MATTERS

ASCA 3.14.78

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. < 2-30-97

se san Francill letter to Bureau dated 5/27/648.

-1897

captioned as above.

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of a letter-

head memorandum which reflects results of recontact with the

sources set forth in referenced letter.

Two copies of this

letterhead memorandum are enclosed for

ICO EXCEPT

Miami Office in view of their over-all interest in the Cu

the information of the

situation.

MEMBER OF SUBIECT ORGANIZATION

to do tart, a

The first source mentioned in the enclosed. letter-

head memorandum is JOSE VALDEZ; 899 = 14th Street, San

SHOWN

DECLASSIFIED

Francisco, California, who is the California delegate of the

3/90

-He furnished the information on 7/30/6400(M)

MEMBER OF SUBJECT ORGANIZATION"

The second source mentioned in the enclosed letter-

head memorandum is CAROLINA; SALAZAR, 419, Shotwell Street,

HER

ON

Apartment 4, San Francisco, Foreign nationality source - Cuba,

who is the Secretary of the Women's Section of the MRR in the

San Francisco area.

She furnished the information on 8/6/64//m)

In view. of the lack of activity within the MRR in

the San Francisco area, this case is being placed in a closed

status and activities of the MRR will be followed through the

usual course

cuban fiera, *(m)

contacts with informants and sources in the

- Bureau (Encs

• Miami (Encs

09,

2)

(RM)

(RM)

2

San Francis

HPF :eim

REG 16

68 AUG 281964.

Copy to: CIA/State/RAO

/Customs /Crimmin

ONI/OSI/ACSI

slip for info.

by routin 8/27/e.y by & BAMSt

LOIR

74133-113

€ AUG 18 1964

3014

CLAS

REASON

DATE

NW 54027 DooId: 32298377

Page 2

---

