# docid-32313059

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10325-10308

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-80750-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

HQ

DOJ

DATE: 07/06/1962

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

4

CIA LIAISON FILE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32313059

5

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017 *

The Attorney General

July 6, 1962

9/98

11/

N8

1 - Mr. Belmont

1

• Lix. Evans

- Me. Sulliván

1 - Hr. Wannall

AMAZ-FIDEA CASTRO AGTIVIZIES

INTERNAL SECURITI - CUBA

1 - Mr

Nasca*-

GLASSIED B

Sob

DECLASSIFY ON:-25X

On Joly l, 1962, the following Infomasion se

furished by an informant who

is native ia Cuban revolucionary

notivities end sho has furnished relloble infomation in the

peat.

ON CONTAIMED

HASSIFIED EXCEPT

ALI, INFORMATI

HEREIN IS UNT

HERE SHORN OTHERWISE.

During

, the latter part of Tebrary, 1962, mentors

of che 30ch of November lovenent, an anti-Castro organisetich,

net 1n

1on, Vlorida,

v1th Theodore Racoosin, who mas

underctood to

be President of the International Broadcasting

Coupong s

Hew York City.

and with Million illnon; the vas

ORIGINAL FILED IN

understood to be hoad

i of tedio Fres Dazope, bolloving that

they night

i ba able to

moniet the Beveront in obtalning

Gaited States

Goverrment backing. AlY

CLASSEED BYL

DUBSATAR

DECLASSTY ON 2901008

Do June 28, 1962, actangonente varo nede for Baddosia

me Villan Boggs, Fattor of the "Hont Daldy Bows,"

to get an

with onch other.

Racoosin subsequenly acrived in Man,

Ladicating that White

House reprosentatives had

contected hin

nd had

asked him

20

to dontact daggs,

when he

deacet bod

as Fresident

Kemedy! o sepresentative.

Raccostn

stated that

the

louse doubted that tha Control Intelligence

Ageney

(GIA) rae

giving

the true ploture of Cubon matters and

Indicscad

Chat: Whl ce

: Houne Lavestigation

ol Cla operations toa

being

, conducted in

Mond by Dages.

Rocoonie was Interasted in

contacting

antl-Castro individuals, particularly those who

had previonaly

perceipated in et oporetione

and

da hoving

the made

avariable

20889 for Laterview, (S/U

July

1962, the following Andividuals not in

Saggs®

109- 564

- 134-6356

(MM

639-S)/

62-80750 (CIA)

VHN: djw

67 JUL 12

C DUPLICADE YELLOW

i i!'?"!

NOT RECORDED

140 JUL I 1 1962

SEE NOTE,

PAGE

MUST

DocId: 32313059

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2103 Hotel-

DATE: 11-11-2017

The Attorney Coneral

Fatales purchased thie boat and subnitted a bill

Cor 500,000 2or 1t. 100

BORDe clalued be had

firsthand knowled

1A/C

the present

and previous owners

bE

the

boat.

Dagge

intervleving.

((и)

tensive notes

and did most of

This ls for your information. In view of the

sensitive nature of this date, it Is not being further

disseutnated.

1 - The Deputy Attorney General

NOTE:

Informant

meeting.

Classified "Secret" (ince It deals with CIA operations.

this matter is MM 639-S, who was also present at

13072

992-10308

DocId: 32313059 Page 3

---

