# docid-32191902

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel?

4-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10256-10336

RECORD SERIES:

WMFO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: SEE TITLE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, WMFO

DATE: 11/29/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

LHO, POST-RP, TRA, ASSOC WITH DURAN, SILVIA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

10/30/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32191902 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note) • 4

DATE: 11-14-2017

.3!.

SECRET

ALLINFORMAT

CONTAINED HEREIN IS

.S5 OTHERWISE NOTED

washington, D. C.

Vovember 29, 1963

Friday

I1-29-63

CUBIEL

SUMMARY

(WE 1196-s*1](S)

1)

(Message 854 From Ministry of Foreign Affairs to Cuban UN CS

Please advise us relative to the abjust resolution proposed

by Brazil for increasing the number of members of the Economic

and Social

Council.

(Spanish)

(FJD)

2)

(Materna 7532 anatostry of foreien Affatzs, Office of (SJ

Organizations, to the Cuban UN M

=Please fumish us as of May 29,1963 (the date on, lit.

teletype #279 I additions to the provisional tagenda of the (S

(Spanish)

( FJD)

3)

Message 754)from Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Cuban UNC5)

Mission, NY.

At the request of the Ministry of Foreign Commerce please send

us text of

speech delivered on November 19 in the National

Congress of Foreign Commerce of US, by Secretary of Commerce

LUTHER HODGES.

(Spanish)

(FJD)

4)

essage, i fren Ministry 01 Foreign Affalra to Cuban UN CS]

ENTRALGO Ambassador (of) Cuba (to) Ghana designated

to attend as representative of Cuba the assumption of

President (of) Liberia.

(Spanish)

• (FJD)

5)

Message 758] from Office of Vice Minister (Foreign Affairs), (S]

Havana, Cuba, to Cuban UN Mission, NY.

Passage of correspondent CEILANES

...... round trip - ARNOI

(Spanish)

(FJD)

FOOMARASWAMY

893 from Cuban UN Mission,

NY, to

• Ministry

of Foreign

Affairs - Administrative Office • Cuba.

December

material distr bution not received.

(Spanish)

(FJD)

ART. INFORMATION CONTAINID

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFTED ENCEPP

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

(5)

-

3

Chessified

Pectassil ou:

249-96

Mascined

Declassity ei:

05-BX8/mc

SECRET

C05.36/19duk3.

577(5)

SEARCHED

....INDEXEL -22

SERIALIZEYNia

024-

FILED

8/498

2008-1]J(5)

DES *

1965

FBI

CLASSIFIED BY 5668-520/

I Brows

DECLASSIFY ON: 25

938.10336

DocId: 32191902

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

Note).

under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107-

• DATE: 11-14-2017

ALL IVE

LiEU

ZID IS UNCIAT

¿LEI ED EXCAPS

GRENE SKOWN OTH

iSE.

SHOREI

-0FC65L

shington, D. C.

November 29, 1963

Friday

11/29/63

GUETEL SUMMARY CONTINUED: (H7-196-S:5J(S)

7)

Message #7549 From Ministry of Foreign Felations, Havana, to Guban UN C

[S]

Mission, NYC:

The Mission ls furnished the text of a note s& presented at

the Mexican Embassy (in Havana), Tuesday evening last, for alleged

mistreatment by interrogating Mexican authorities of

a Mrs. SILVIA

DURAN, an employeee, Mexican citizen, of the Cuban consulate

in Mexico City, was questioned by Mexican police relative to a

request handled by her last September from LEE HÄRVEY OSWALD for a

transit visa.

(Spanish)SYW

OSWALD was alleged assassin of President KeNEDY.

ptk/I0

He ago 189 on Cuban UN Mission, NYC, to kinistry of Forehen (5)

Relations, Favana:

The Ministry is furnished report of the Fifth Commission on

finances connected with handling of resolutions on the urgent

necessity of suspending nuclear and thermonuclear tests.

(Spanish)

ptk/fo

9)

Wessage #896) from Cuban, UN Mission, NYC, to Ministry of Foreign CS

Relations, Havana:

The Ministry is furnished the text of a note from the UN Secretary

General advising of the extension of the term of office of FELIX

SCHNYDER, Switzerland, as High Commissioner of the UN Committee on

Refugees.

(Spanish)

ptk/fo

10)

Message #898) from Cuban UN Mission, NYC, to Ministry of Foreign (SJ

Relations, Favana:

The Ministry is furnished the text of reccomendation of the First

Commission on "The Urgent Necessity of suspending nuclear and thermo-

nuclear tests."

(Spanish)

ptk/fo

11)

Message #900 from Cuban UN Mission, NYC, to Ministry of Foreign (S]

Relations, Havana:

Ministry is furnished report of the Fifth Commission on the

nominations to fill the vacancies in the Consultive Commission on

administtative affairs and the budget.

(Spanish)

ptk/fo

12)

Chatter between operators at UN Mission and the Ministry. They take turns

damning capitalism and hailing the activities of the FAIN in Venezuela

and the revolutionary activity in South Vietnam.

(Spanish)

ptk/fo

SEORET

(SS

Case

iNd Ly

Daclaschly on: 0.06%

DooId: 32191902 Page 3

---

