# docid-32322761

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

• AGENCY: FBI.

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90005-10023

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-126101-2

Released under the John

'. kenner

Assassination Recordi

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note) •

Case#: N 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/10/1963

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

ASSSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNDEY

JOSEPH MOLINA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

AT

v9.1

HH 54462 DocId: 32322761

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

12/10/63

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

: DIRECTOR, FBI

PROME: SAC, DALIAS (100-9847)

, SUBJECT:

JOSEPH RODRIGUEZ MOLINA, aka

Jose

Rodriguez Molina,

Joe

Molina

SM

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ReBuilet to Dallas, 12/6/63.

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1021/14 BY Spin

For the information of the Bureau,

the subject

is a member and past chairman of the Dallas Chapter of the

American GI Forum (see Bureau file 62-96541).

For the information of the Bureau, a confidential

informant, on 10/4/54, advised that a chapter of the American

GI Forum of Texas, Inc., was organized in Dallas, Texas, on

September 29, 1954, and that the Communist Party (CP) ‚was'

seeking to infiltrate this chapter at the time of-its

inception. This informant, on January 4, 1955, reported that

the Dallas chapter of this organization was then controlled

and dominated by the CP.

Another confidential informant, on December 17,

1956, reported that the Dallas chapter of the American GI

REG. IN

Bureau (RM)

Dallas

MC 1-7

105-126101-254

JPH/ rms

(4) 21

DEC 19

1963

Approved:

Sent

_ M

Special Agent in Charge

HW 54462 DooId:32322761

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 100-9847

Forum of Texas, Inc., from the time of its organization in

about September, 1954, until about October, 1955, was under

the control and domination of CP members; that since about

October, 1955, this chapter has only been infiltrated by a

few CP members who attended occasional meetings.

This

informant had no information indicating CP members were

being active in the affairs of that chapter.

WILLIAM J. LOWERY (former DL- 2-S), DL 6-S and

former DL 18-S, advised in July, 1955 that

they do not

believe the subject could ever be recruited into the CP

or would ever be sympathetic to the CP. These informants

have all advised that MOLINA opposed the CP faction within

the GI Forum.

On 11/30/63, WILLIAM J. LOWERY (former DL 2-S)

advised that he was contacted by JOE MOLINA who was con-

sidering a law suit against certain Dallas newspapers, radio

stations and possibly the Dallas Police Department for

alleging he was a communist.

Dallas will submit a security-type report on all

activities of MOLINA and his association with Dallas CP

members in the Dallas Chapter of the American GI Forum.

- 2

HH 54462 DocId:32322761 Page 3

---

