# docid-32338840

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90143-10258

HQ

100-370750-93

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

LA

HQ

DATE: 04/03/1946

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

HH 54460

12

DocId: 32338840

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

FILE NO. 100-21198

REPORT MADE AT

DATE WHEN MADE

PERIOD FOR

REPORT MADE BY

WHICH MADE

LOS ANGELES

4-3-46

2019

3-1,20,

27-46

ROBERT W. HOLLMAN

TITLE

CHARACTER OF CASE

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON, with aliases

DASE 2S08 541/me

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

JUL

194G

Reliable informant predicts subject will again

assume active leadership of the Communist move -

ment in the motion picture industry.

recently spoke at rally of Council of African

Affairs with PAUL ROBESON and other prominent

Communists and will appear at forthcoming Con-

unist forum on "Art-Weapon of the People".

subject identified as sponsor of Communist sup-

ported F.E.P.C. program, and reliable infornant

Tras disclosed subject named to committee to aid

personally

indoctrinate recent convert.

MDL

Reference:

Report of Special Agent ROBERT. W. HOLLMAN,

dated February 15, 1942 LaTERANAHON CONTAINED

Details:

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIER

sauce A has racantly adrised this in lobBy 95 stela

that the subject has just

Finished ten weeks' work for WALTER WANGER for which he received $25,000, anc

"Athough he will be off the pay roll approximately a week he will return to

prewrite an unidentilled script for WANGER.

Source By abo is well versed on the Communist infiltration in the

motion picture industry, has pointed out that on March 26, 1946, the Rankin

Committee announced that it would discontinue its investigation of Communism

in the motion picture industry and that he had learned that as a result of this

APPROVED AND

LAYSON wiz again assume active leadershe lose movement in the

FORWARDED

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

Bureau (Enc.)

- New York (Info.)

3 - Los Angeles!

JEM:IN.

nor tric

50

SUL 24 1946

N FILE

COPY

COPIES

DESTROYED

28

NIAR 23

1963

1. & MITHRNHTIM PrINTING SOFIOt

1846

REOORDED

NH 54460

DooId: 32338840

Page 2

---

## Page 3

LoA. F.D. 100-21198

XCONPIDENTAL baft

Source B

CNDI LA-1138.

-5-

14 54460

DocId: 32338840

Page 3

---

