# docid-32560417

## Page 1

CONSENHAL

PH 92-444

4N!1

Slys

with BRUNO and ascertain his activities.

Will attempt to interview BRUNO to obtain any

additional

information regarding his activities in Florida.

Informants

SA J. ROBERT PEARCE, dates indicated

OTHER 4

SA DALE M. HIESTAND

PH T-1

PH 523-C

PH I-2

PH 269-C

PH T-3

PH 514-C

PH T-4

FRANK PALUMBO

(protected upon request)

PH T-5

Inspector FRANK RIZZO

Philadelphia Police Department

PH T-6

PH 540-C

PH I-7

PCI

PH T35-с-

PH T-9

PCIT

PH T-10

PH 251-C

PH T-1

PCI

Havana,

Cuba, confidential

source

SA J. ROBERT PEARCE, 1/13/60

SA J. ROBERT PEARCE

SA J. ROBERI PEARCE, dates indicated l

SA JOHN F. PHELAN, 9/30/59

SA ROBERT W. HOLMES

SA J. ROBERT PEARCE

SA DAVID E. WALKER, 12/30/59

Undisclosed dates

COVER- PAGE!

EYE CUMENIIAL

10803065815

NW 45737 DocId:32560417 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PH 92-444

Doraniu

FER

It should be noted that PH T-2 has previously

identified BEN

GALLUP as operating a pinball machine business

in Miami and aliclose associate of BRUNO in that city.

BRAYLENSKI advised that he could furnish no

information regarding the relationship of GALLUP or FROMPKIN

with ANGELO BRUNO.

On September 11, 1959, PH T-l advised that ANGELO

BRUNO's wife had stated that BRUNO was in business in Cuba

"BROWNIE" and the other as

with at least two other mer "PAPPY" IPPOLITO.

one of whom was identified as

By letter dated October 22, 1959, the Miami Division

advised that on October 14; 1959, Mrs. ELOISE MANGONE stated

that she and her husband,

JOSEPH, owned and operated the All-

Coin Amusement Company,

2820 Northwest 7th Avenue, Miami, Fla.

She claimed that BEN GALLUP was In Miami during the 1957-1958

winter season for approximately six months, that he had rented

a house, address unknown, on one of the islands adjacent to

Miami Beach.

She said GALLUP had contacted her and her husband

with a proposition to buy into their vending machine business

but after considerable negotiating the deal was never consummated.

Mrs. MANGONE claimed she was familiar with all of

the persons engaged in the vending machine business in the

Miami area and that BEN GALLUP did not enter into the business

in Miami.

She described GALLUP as being originally from

Trenton,

N. J., where he was in the cigarette vending machine

business.

On October 20, 1959, PH T-3 advised that the crap

game being operated in Mt. Holly,

N. J., was closed after

running only one week due to lack of business.

PH T-3

identified CARL "PAPPY" IPPOLITO as a friend of ANGELO BRUNO.

Confidential Informant PH T-4 on January 13, 1960,

advised lint a conversation approximately two weeks previous

Mitch, claimed that

COHEN, was

he, "the biggest man

ANGELO BRUNO noW.

highest one around,"around these parts - the boss - and the

COHEN also related that BRUNO had "things"

going in many parts of the country. B. APPROX. I02

3702 CONSHAHOCKeN AUEPHILA

PALA PA

-5 -

813-10585

NW 45737 DocId: 32560417 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-444

ANGELO BRUNO attended this wedding. It was also pointed out

that BRUNO was related by marriage to the MAGGIO family.

In November 1959 PH T-2, who had recently been

closely associated with ANGELO BRUNO, advised that BRUNO's

numbers activity was

"positively" being maintained in the

Maggio Cheese Company, 11th Street and Washington Avenue,

Philadelphia.

On December 30, 1959, PH T-10 advised that during

commented that ANGELO BRUNO had "lots of money."

This informant

On February 12, 1960, PH T-2 told of a recent visit

to the Maggio Cheese Company, at which time MARIO MAGGIO, who

operates the MAGGIO family business, told the informant that

Rebece ompany 12

Internal Revenue Agents were examining his books at that time.

MAGGIO commented that the books that the agents wanted to

examine would never be made available and the books that they

were looking at were in perfect order.

MARIO MAGGIO told the

informant that ANGELO BRUNO was not around due to the agents

being at the company.

Informant told of another visit to the Maggio Cheese

Company where he observed numerous men contacting ANGELO BRUNO

and MARIO MAGGIO in the office located on the northwest corner

of the property at llth Street and Washington Avenue.

The in-

formant said that these men contacting MAGGIO and BRUNO did not

enter through the front main entrance, but came into the offices

so forth for that day.

Informant stated that he was of the opinion that other

numbers activity is conducted in the offices of Milkmaid Dairy

Products, 1130 South 1lth Street, a subsidiary of the Maggio

Cheese Company and located in the same building with the cheese

company.

Informant said that he had seen PHILLIP TESTA talking

with ANGELO BRUNO and MARIO MAGGIO in the front offices of the

- 15 -

T4511585

NW 45737 DocId: 32560417 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-444

BRUNO in this contract would have to bid for the contract but

that it appeared that this bid would be only to comply with

t would a ve to bid

formality.

On December 21, 1959, PH T-2 said that he had been

consulted by BRUNO and his associates regarding the securing

of a contract for the City of Philadelphia after conference

with Councilman ROSE.

Informant said that it now appears that

the original deal would not go through due basically to strong

opposition developed near the proposed dumping site in Salem,

Informant was reported to have discussed with ROSE the

possibility of handling garbage disposal and dumping in Tinicum

Township, Delaware County, Pa., which according to the informant,

may have

in some way brought about the present situation in

order that the informant could secure the contract for himself.

Informant pointed out that if he secured the contract, BRUNO

would in no way enter into the business.

Philadelphia Inquirer December 23, 1959, reported

that a "storm of opposition"

developed being led by the Mayor

of Bridgeton, N. J., and a State Senator from Cumberland

County, N. J., all

opposed to using grounds for the dumping

of refuse, based on the danger to health and loss of natural

wildlife.

This newspaper account, apparently having reference

to the property previously mentioned in Salem, N. J.,

identifled the operation proposed as being

"The Delaware-

Philadelphia Disposal, Inc.

On February 18, 1960, PH T-2 advised SA DALE M. HIESTAND

that the property which BRUNO and others were attempting to

purchase in Salem, N. J., for disposal of Philadelphia garbage

was condemned by the State of New Jersey.

The informant believed that the State of New Jersey

purchased the property, and in view of this, the venture to

obtain a contract from

the City of Philadelphia for removal of

crash Irom the city va water to Salem, N. J., collapsed.

This article, bylined by ROBERT J. EISLER, stated that

the City of Philadelphia had blocked a Philadelphia Street

- 21 -

503-10545

NW 45737 DocId: 32560417 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PH 92-444

It was also stated that on August 14, 1959, GLEN

ASMUSSEN,

Immigration and Naturalization Service.

telephonically

advised the Miami Office that ANGELO ANNALORO had arrived fron

Havana, Cuba, via Pan American Airlines, Flight 420, at 8:15 p.m.,

August 14, 1959.

The residence address of ANNALORO, an alias

used by BRUNO, was 934 Snyder Avenue,

Philadelphia, Pa.

ANNALORO said he was a citizen of the United States.

on September 20, 1959, Inspector WALLACE SHANLEY.

U. S. Customs,

Miami, advised SA CHARLES W. ADMISTON that

he had received no information concerning ANGELO BRUNO!S

activities, either in Havana or the Dominican Republic.

PH T-1 in July 1959 advised that ANGELO BRUNO'S

Investments, according to information learned from his spouse,

in Cuba totaled approximately $180,000.

In April 1960, this same Informant stated that

BRUNO's spouse had advised that most of the money invested

by BRUNO in the gambling casino in Cuba had been obtained by

him, but the informant did not know how BRUNO was able to

bring this money out of Cuba.

PH T-1 advised on April 26, 1960, that SUE BRUNO,

wife of ANGELO BRUNO, stated that she had recently written a

check in the amount of $50,000 to purchase the controlling

interest in a vending machine business in Miami Beach, Fla.

In addition it was stated that the' BRUNOs had a financial

interest in the Monmart (phonetic) Motel, next to the Eden

Roc in Miami Beach, Fla., but this financial interest did not

show.

It has previously been reported that MICHAEL BRUNO,

ANGELO BRUNO's son, operates the Globe Sanitation Company at

810 Snyder Avenue,

Philadelphia, and BRUNO has previously

stated that he has an investment in the Atlas Sanitation

Company in Trenton, N. J., which is operated by JOHN SIMONE,

previously described

• In this report.

F. PLACES OF AMUSEMENT AND

HANGOUTS FREQUENTED

On July 22, 1959, PH T-1 advised SA ROBERT W. HOLMES

that ANGELO BRUNO would spend the remainder of the summer at

5501 Ventnor Avenue, Atlantic CIty, N. J. PH I-l believed that

BRUNO would be with

his wife and daughter JEAN who graduated

from high school in June 1959.

- 24 -

NW 45737 DocId: 32560417 Page 5

---

