# docid-32341013

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10221-10406

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-2ND NR 392

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/07/1968

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, ANTI-CASTRO ORGANIZATIONS, MEMBERSHIP,

LEAFLET, INTV, RMN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

NW 45881

DocId: 32341013

Page 1

---

## Page 2

10:36 (Fev. 5-22-24)

CONFIDENTIAL

FBI

Date:

5/7/68

Transmit the following in

T

ELSEAT ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

, SHOWN

EXCEFE WHERE

OTHERWISE

Classified by

Declassify on: OADR/O

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

• DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

SAC, MIAMI (205-1742) (P)

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

IS - CUBA

wary

Re Miami airtel to the Bureau dated 4/30/68.

The Miami office continues its attempts to further

infiltrate PODER CUBANO (PC) and the JULIO PEREZ PEREZ-

EVARISTO GARCIA SARMIENTO faction of the CUBAN NATIONALIST

MOVEMENT

(CNM) .

PCI, is continuing contact with

PC leaders in an attempt to further ascertain PC membership

and activities.

ALTONSO REY,

a source in Cuban matters, is in

contact with DC leaders and is continuing his attempts to

infiltrate the

MM 815-S continues to frequent the Toyo Restaurant,

PC leaders, and now advises that PC members

hive not come to the restaurant during the past week and

their present whereabouts are unknown.

received from. her source,

DOn CAR SOLYA BONAFONTE advised that theormation

reflects

flau is in 105-r1295 ico

Binares (1211)

91-4474 (mird)

¿05-15556) (Cuban Power)

105-2481) (Cubnai)

: 3

unna 104= 94261 Certailer

722 MAY 8

4953

59

97-4474

54-M

NOT REOOPNAT

170 MAY 16 1968.

Approved:

NOV 29 1915

Rpecial Agent in Charge COMAn MEAT-

Per

N₩ 45881

DocId: 32341013 Page 2

663

OTHER 4

ORIGINAL

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAT

Nas 105-1742

RECTOR CORNILLOT LIANO, PC leader, said he is leaving the

Pc ana the Miami area because oi pressure put on him by two

members of the Miami Police Depariment.

7 reporis

thai Pc aciivisi, OMAR SCTO PUJOL, said he is leaving the

PC because he does not want any more problems.

reports that the PC is breaking up, no longer meets and

discusses plans, no longer wants dynamite ior iuture operations,

land clains

the organization has

no immediate plans.

Under the counterintelligence program, copies of

exiureau approved leaflet have been mailed io numerous Cuban

businessmen in Miami. Copies of a second and different

Leatlos, approved by the Bureau,

have also been mailed. A

third approved leaflet will be mailed this week.

A fourth

learlei will be submitted to the Bureau for approval, and if

approvad,

this leaflet will also be mailed to Cuban exile

businessmen in Miami.

These leaflets have carried such titles as:

"CUBAN POWER -- A CASTRO FRONT?"

, "CUBAN POWER -- CRIMINAL

CECANIZATION?", and "CUBAN POWER' -- OR NARCOTICS POWER?"

• RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE continues to be inter-

viewed daily by the Miami office and has furnished a large

quantity of tremendously valuable information concerning the

Do and other anti-Castro organizations.

Concerning the PEREZ-GARCIA SARMIENTO faction of the

INM, there has been no activity during the past week.

PEREZ

has remained in the West Palm Beach area, and the Customs

informant in Miami has had no opportunity to see him or to

identify BADIN. Miami is considering interviewing the Customs

source, NANCY RODRiGUeZ,

to see if she is amenable to contact

by Bureau Agents and ascertain her potential for being a

Bureau source.

FELIPE RIVERO DIAZ waS interviewed on 4/24/68, ir

concaction with another natter.

He described PEREZ as being

& psychopath and unstable and

stated PEREZ exerts a great

ancuzi of influence over GARCIA SARMIENTO. RIVERO feels

5: 7.23.92 dat

L. RELEASE IN PART

LE ROTAL DENIAL

= 2

CONFIDENTIAl

N₩ 45881

DocId: 32341013

Page 3

OTHER 4

---

