# docid-32295377

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10215-10153

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-401762-120

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEG, BR

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/10/1965

2

(Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

GLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

y9.1

DocIA: 32295377

Page 1

65

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107.Hote).

ОДТЕ: 11-14-2017

5-124 (Rev. 7-2-64)

*= OPTIONAISFORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO. RNMENT

SECRET

Memorandum

TO

Director, FBI

(100-401762)

DATE:

2/10/65

FROM

agat, Bern

(105-321) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

OTHE NISE

MCERS STORE SHOWN

HEADIN 18 UECLASSIFTED

«ALL INPORMATION CONTAINED

excl

RICHARD CYRIL FRANK

IS - CH

227/9et

4.1

Re Bern letter 12/30/64•

Cla

10SмA

Declassity on.

PADI

Enclosed are 5 copies of the following:

Letterhead Memorandum dated

2/10/65

comes and chises en sett

8/25/9

Information in the enclosure was received by Legat Bern on

Source in the memorandum or originator of communication is:

1/25/65

U

Bundesministerium für Inneres, Abteilung 13 (Austrian Federal Criminal Police), Vienna

Austria (AFCP).

Schweizerisches Zentralpolizeibureau (Swiss Central Police Bureau), Bern, Switzerland

(SCPB).

Abteilung II, Gruppe Staatspolizei, Bundesministerium für Inneres (Austrian Federal Security

(S)

Police), Vienna, Austria, (AFSP).

Schweizerische Bundespolizei (Swiss Federal Police), Bern, Switzerland (SFP

Office of Special Assistant (covert CIA), American Embassy, Bern, Switzerland (OSA)

Research Branch (covert CIA), American Embassy, Vienna, Austria.

(S 5 m).

• Other:

Enclosure is classified.

Confidential

X*By source

my See remarks

• Check name(s) in Bufiles.

Check name(s) and/or fingerprints in, Identification Division.

Furnish results of requested.

investigation for referral to requesting agency.

x For information.

CLOSUREREC

- Bureau (Encl.

5)E

(1 - Liaison) (Enc1,.)

+00-401767-121

(I - New York)" 100-107383)!

1 - Bern

F5,1965

HDG: mls

(5)

MAR 2

AGENCY

2 00

1 220151025

1965

SECRET

DocId: 32295377

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released ander the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act-of 1992(11 Usc 210% Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNIT

CONTIDANII

STATES DEPARTMENT OF . ,STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

February 10, 1965

MRS RICHARD CYRIL FRANK

T - 702

a confidential source abroad, has informed

that RICHARD

D FRANK, born August 22, 1922, American citizeng

television worker,, married to MILDRED SUSAN FRANK, born

November Sded at tre Hotel Victoria,

residing at Christopher 110 (sic) NeW.

Yorke

Geneva,

Switzerland,

arriving alone from New York, from May 5 to 13, 1964g

at the Hotel du Jet d'Eau, Geneva, arriving from New

Yorkg,

from May 13 to 14, 1964.

No pertinent information was

obtained

at the first hotel concerning the reason for his

stay in Geneva.

At the second hotel, where he just stayed

for a night, it was recalled that FRANK had been in

possession of a great amount of photographic material and

that he had not stayed with anyone. (e)

It should be noted that Swiss television was not

called on to collaborate with FRANK, which is customary for

professional reasons when a representative of a foreign

television organization comes to switzerland, and is usually

aone through turovision, whose swiss office is at Zurich. (C

"This decamant contains neithe: recommendations

Of tear

also tires agency; it and

its cortoas ars not to be distributed outside

your agency."

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HESSIN LS UACTASSIFTED

EZCED MABHE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

12/22/94

Classified by Stemsefu

Declassifv on• MADE JfK)

CONFIDENTIAL

omati

assiciantion

ENCLOSURE

100-401762-120

DocId: 32295377

Page 3

---

