# docid-32311688

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10320-10005

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-409763-353

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

437

MARK LANE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

BULKY ENC, INC RPT, LHM, MEMO, FD-302, LTR, INSERT, LAB RPT

v9.1

DooId: 32311688

Page 1

---

## Page 2

leased under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 141 USE 2107 Molay

DATE: 11-14-2017

SEC SI

1 = Liaison

Mr. Lenihan

(5) 62-109060

BY LIAISON

Date:

To:

April 10, 1907

ALL INFORKATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

Director

MITERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Bureau of Intelligence and Rosearch

Department of State

denied

From:

Subject:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

ASSASS INATION OF PRESIDNT

4-11-6?

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

DALLAS, TEXAS

28/94

Classined by 05: RmB/EH

NOVEMBER 22, 1963

Declassity on: DADR (

JFK)

Reference is made to previous communications

which we have furnished to you in captioned matter.

Attached is a copy of & memorandum dated

April 4, 1967, at Washington, D. C., which sets forth

adaitional intormation we have received

concerning

soviet reaction to the assassination ot the late

President Kennedy.

John!

It is requested that this data receive

further dissemination by the recipients of this

communication without prior reference to this Bureau.

Enclosurey riput

REC 5 12 10/00:

1 - Director, U.S. Secret Service (Enclosuro) (BY LIATSON)

4-/6

165 APR ?C 196

REL: aS 12(6)

NOTE:

See memorandum Branigan to Sullivan dated 4/4/67

which approved this dissemination.

This letter is classified

"Secret" to protect the identity of our "Shamrock" source and (S

his information, the unauthorized disclosure of which would

result in serious damage to the internal security of this

country.

I son

ouch

i:k

aper

•llahan

irad -

6 APR 1919671

TELETYPE UNIT

SECRET

Excluded from automato

downgrading and

declassification

VAA

DocId: 32311688

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Recorus colleat

DATE: 11-14-2017

NOTE :

Classified "Secret" inasmuch as this information

came trom NY 5812-9%

, a highly sensitive detector.

Disclosure

[S]

of this source could cause serious damage to the

internal

security of this country.

SECRET

DoeId: 32311688

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-142201TRev: 3-3-59)

CONNENTIM

¿D STATES DEPARTMENT OF

JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

•PET

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

BENJAMIN P. MC MANUS

MAY 1 1 1956

100-117844

Office:

New York, New York

Title:

MARK LANE

Bureau File #100-409763

ALD EDGARTON CONTAINED

HORSE IS MOLASSIFIED RICOPT

KREAS SZORN OTHERWISE.

Character:

SECURITY MATTER - C

Declassify on: GAD

Synopsis:

On his return to the US, 2/24/65, subjeet

gave his residence as 75 Montgomery Street, NYC.

March, 1956, subject acted as the defense attornes bject's

H. MITCHELL III at Hartfora, Connecticut.

"Rush To Judgement"

, concerning the assassination

of president JOHN F. KENNEDY, scheduled for publication

in London, England,

being prepared by

Viking Press, NYC.

iking Press, NiC. An December, 1905,

a source reported that Current Affairs Documentary Films,

Ita., had been formed in England to make a film based on

an anticipated budget of

"Budoo guatemano, 1965, subject, using the name ROmERI

BLAKE, reported to be in Dallas, Texas, interviewing

or attemptine to interview various witnesses to the

assassination of President KENNEDY.

_p-

DETAILS:

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFIED BY 5618-SLO/GCC

DECLASSIPY ON: 25X.

1(0)(7K)

(Per Pier Release 100-409763-396 Bully . II)

GROUP 1

Excludes from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

This document

contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed.oufside your agency.

100-409763-179

DocId: 32311688 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hoter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREN

NY 100-117844

I. BACKGROUND

A. Residence

On December 31, 1965, NY I-I, a confidential

source abroad, furnished

information which reflected that

at that time the subject's residence and/or mailing

address

was, 27 Argyll Mansions, Kings Road, London,

Englana. (5)

On February 24, 1965, Inspector WALTER

AUSMAN,

Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS),

John F.

Kennedy International airport, Queens, New York,

aavised that upon subject's arrival in the United States

that date, he gave his residence as 75 Montgomery Street,

New York City.

B. Employment

The "New York Post" newspaper, issue of March 8,

1956, page 12, reflected that subject had been retained as

the defense attorney for DAVID H. MITCHELL III, an objector

co the current selective Service laws, who was to be triec

in the United States District Court (USDC), Hartford,

Connecticut, on March 15, 1966.

II. INFORMATION RELATIVE TO THE

SCHEDUIED PUBLICATION OF

SUBJECT'S BOOK, "RUSH TO

JUDGEMENT"

On December 31, 1965, NY I-1, previously mentioned,

advised that information had come to his attention indicating

that subject's book,

"Rush To Judgement"

, dealing with

and was expected to

be published there in March, 1966.-

According to NY I-l, "Rush To Judgement" would run to

125,000 words. COU

- 2 -

SECRET

DocId: 32311688 Page 5

---

## Page 6

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note,

DATE: 11-14-2017

RET

, NY 100-117844

on January 12, 1906, NY T-2, a confidential

source abroad, furnished a copy of the

Danish newspaper

"Lolland-Falsters Folketidende

• Issue of January 4, 1966,

which In part stated as follows: (C)

of his book dealing

"Mark lane has now finished reading the proofs

with the assassination

President

Kennedy and entitled 'Rush to Judgement.'

"After having spent Christmas and New Year with Dear'''"

ais parents-in-law,

, Mark Lane and his wire new do condon where the book

Dabelsteen, Nykbing

is to be published by Bodley Head, publishers, London,

in April 1966. Six months after its appearance, the

book is to be reprinted in a paper-back edition in

twelve countries.

Professor Trevor Roper, Oxford

University, has written a preface to the book,

that in its evaluation of what happened in Dallas,

stating

history must take into account both the Warren Report

Mark Lane's book."

NY T-2 further advised

I that subject's book

would possibly appear as a series of articles in the

"Daily Telegraph'

', a newspaper published in London, England. (C)

On February 24, 1966, NY I-3 advised that the

American printing of

"Rush To Judgement" was being prepared

by Viking Press,

located in New York City. NY T-3 stated

that in checking the manuscript, Viking Press had discovered

inaccuracies and exaggerations which they demanded the

subject clarify. NY T-3 advised that subsequently the

subject informed Viking Press that he could change the

manuscript to their satisfaction.

III. INFORMATION RELATING TO SUBJECT'S

SCHEDUIED PRODUCTION OF A DOCUMENTARY

FILM ENTITIED, "RUSH TO JUDGEMENT"

advised that the subject

On December 31, 1965, NY I-1, previously mentioned,

and one RICHARD LORD STARK

planned to produce a film to be entitled, "Rush Io Judgement, "

which would be based on the subject's book on the assassination

of President JOHN F. KENNEDY. NY T-I stated that a company

-3-

DocId: 32311688 Page 6

---

## Page 7

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hot

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 100-117844

his years at St. Thomas College, DE ANTONIO

had attended many Communist Party (CP) meetings

and had taken an active part in attempting

to obtain new members for the CP.

on June 20, 1905, the records of the

Motion Picture Association of America,

New York City,

reflected that EMIlE

DE ANTONIO WaS

the Director and one

"Point producer at dete with the

nearings conducted by the late

Senator JOSEPH MC CARTHY.

On January 12, 1966, NY I-2, previously mentioned,

furnished information which appeared in the Danish

newspaper,

"Lolland-Falsters Folketidende"

, issue of

January 4, 1966, concerning the subject.

NY T-2 stated

that an article

reflected that a documentary full-length

film, based on the subject's book, will be made in the

future.

The article also noted that the film will be

under the direction of EMILE DE ANTONIO and will incorporate

some films taken during and after the assassination of

President KENNEDY by the American Broadcasting System

the Columbia Broadcasting System.

It was pointed out that

In February, 1966, the subject and his associates would

travel to Dallas,

Texas, where

they intended to interview

witnesses to the

assassination.(C)

In part, the above article read: (C)

"This film is also to be shown in the United

States where the massive opposition to Mark Lane's views

of the Kennedy tragedy has declined considerably.

The

released by the company'Allied

Artists'; If not, Mark Lane will hire cinemas In New York

and Dallas and show the film there, and it will also be

distributed to film elubs all over the United States. "(e)

On March 29, 1966, Mrs. JEAN LOLLIS HILL, 9402 Bluff

Creek, Dallas, Texas, advised Special Agent (SA) ROBERT

P. GEMBERLING

that during the previous week, she had been

telephonically contacted on several occasions by an individual

Identifying himself as DE ANTONIO, who indicated that he and

-7

CRED

DocId: 32311688 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 141 USC 2107 Hote

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 100-117844

V. FOREIGN TRAVEL

• On December 31, 1955, NY I-1, previously mentioned,

advised that on December

12, 1905, the subject departed

England

en route to Toronto, Canada, in the company of

RALPEKSCHCENMAN of the Bertrand Russell Peace Foundation;

NY T-1 stated SCHOENMAN returned to England on December 19,

no at that me wan sees vess

the return of the

On February 24, 1966, Inspector WALTER AUSMAN,

INS, John F. Kennedy International Airport, Queens, New

York, advised subject arrived in New York that date at

3:30 p.m. as a passenger on Trans-World Airlines, flight

number 103, which originated in London, Englana.

Inspector

AUSMAN advised subject travelled under United States

passport numoer E067352, and gave his United States address

as 75 Montgomery Street, New York City.

SECKE

-15* -

JAITMIBOIZMOU CONKIDENTIAL

DoeId: 32311688

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2TUT uter

-DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-323. (Rev. 11-29-61)

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Bureau 100-409763

New York 100-117844

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

May 12, 1966 GLUMa

Title

Mark Lane

Character

Security Matter - C

Reference

is made to report of

Special Agent Benjamin P. Mc

Manus,

dated

and

captioned as above.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

information in the past.

NY I-1 and NY I-2 are Confidential sources

abroad. J5)

NY T-3, who was in a position to furnish

reliable information.

your agency

DocId: 32311688

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released inter the John F. Kennerly

Assassination Records ColLection Aot of 1992 (41-USC TUT TI

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT UF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

New York, New York

8/2290

February 25, 1966

Classified by Slbssenel

Bureau 100-409763

New York 100-117844

AND INFORMATION CONTAINED

peclassily on: DADRIER)

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEP" CONFIDINTIAL

WHIGRE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Mark Lane

Security Matter - C

Reference is made to Federal Bureau of Investigation

(FBI) memorandum dated October 4

that subject was then living in bennert reflecting information

On December 31, 1965, a confidential source abroad

advised that subject departed England on December 12, 1965,

in company with Ralph

Schoenman of the Bertrand Russell Peace

Foundation.

This source stated that Schoenman returned to

England on

December 19, 1965, but could furnish no information

as to the return travel of subject. S

The above source made available material which

rellected that subject and Richard Lord Stark planned to produce

a feature-length film based on subject's book "Rush To Judgement'

dealing with the circumstances surrounding the assassination

of President John F. Kennedy at Dallas, Texas, on November 22,

This source also furnished a business prospectus for

an organization entitled "Current Affairs Documentary Films,

address as 27 Argyll Mansions, Rings Road, London, SW 3, England(S

on february 24, 1966

a second source, who was in

a position to furnish reliable information, advised the Americar

"Rush To Judgement" was being

printing of subject's bock new york, New York. This source

inaccuracies and exaggerations which they demanded the subject

clarify. This source stated subject informed Viking Press he

could change the manuscript to their satisfaction.

CONFIDENTIAL

GROUP

Excluded

from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

and it antone ee not to be it-s ood outco

SECREI

10%=0.09

ENCLOSURE

G3-

DoeId: 32311688 Page 10

---

## Page 11

/Released under the John FaKerin

DATE*

14-2017

Assassination Records Collection

Act

0t, 1992. 099

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

¿STICE*

Ust

Hotel:

In Reply, Please Refer to

File: No.

May 20, 2971

MARK LAMO

According to Infornation received on May 19. 19717

fron a confidential scurce abroad, captioned individual,

who.

was born Tebruary 20y 29242

at New

Lars, was in fonio, France y

during the period March 7-24, 1971.

Surins his visit,

according to the soungs s

a nuaber Of contacts with Vietnanese, ravolutionary organizations

and individuals of the

an left, with won ho aiscussed probloga

of the war in Vietnam.

me soures statad chat with the asslatarco of lAY JO

VAS INGES subject net with ALAN KAIVINZ, leader of the Communist

Leagues

VAT INGEN IS Krown to French authorities as a Prench

petional and senser of the Tourth International European Trotskyist

organization, who was in Brussels, Belgiun on Movesten 21-22,

197a,eon the occasion of the International Heating of Eurorean

Revolutionazies.

(C)

According to the source, the meting batreen Lane and?

MRIVE particularly dealt wits the future collaboration between

tha commundat League and JAM TONDAD

who reportedly is vesynd

auca under LAnE's influence. LANs

said to havs cont buted

500 francs to the Consunist Leazue.

The source also stated that LANE also net with TRAACOIS

MASPERO, no specializes in publishing revolusionary books eith

regard to having one of chia books pubiiabed.

ALD INFO MADION CONTA THED

HEROIN IS UNGLASSIF TED EXCEPS

WUERE SHOWN OTHARWISE,

DENTIAL

Ses MaCKSR

Declassity on: OADR:

OF*)

der

CONEIDENTIAC

6O)

Document #2

yellow paper

in place g

DoeId: 32311688 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

= FD-201 (He•

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

SA WAYNE A. MILLWARD

August 31, 1971

Field Office File #: 100-17689

Title:

MARK LANE

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

RET

SEC

NO FOREIGN DIS

NO DISSED

Contrelle

Office:

CHINATTON

VID

Di556141

NEW ORLEANS

Bureou File #:

100-409763

CIA HAS NO COJECTION TO

DEGLASSTCATION AND/OR,

AGLEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Character:

Synopsis:

DETAILS:

127-25-4824

SECURITY MATTER - MISCELLANEOUS

MARK LANE does not have established permanent residence,

but travels throughout the U.S. involving himself in

various anti-war and anti-Government activities.

Subject at present is traveling and living with

CAROLINE J. MUGAR.

daughter of wealthy Bostonian. He

has also associated himself with actress JANE FONDA

and Black Panther Party leader HUEY NEWTON. Subject

has also been involved in the

encouragement of military

desertion abroad. Subject and

MuGAr last known to be

in vicinity of Mountain Home Air Force Base near Boise,

Idaho, where he attempted to distribute anti-military

paper.

51497

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED BECEPT

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLANESe

PHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

-P .

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

(sa)

(FK)

SECRET \

NO FOREIGN

DISSEMINATION/ NO

DISSEMINATION AFROAD,

CONTROLLED

PISSEMINATION

GROUP 1

Excluded

from autonatic

downgradi

neind

declassif

cation.

+00589763-291

SECRET

propertY

al she FBl and in loaner

DocId:32311688 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hot-y

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NO 100-17689 - nmb

GEORGE LANE stated that it was his distinct

impression from his contact with MARK LANE that MARK LANE

is an agitator who is interested in stirring up racial

disturbances, particularly in the Arcadia and Imnokalee,

Florida, areas. GEORGE LANE stated he has brought the above

information to the attention of DeSoto County Sheriff

FRANK CLINE, Arcadia, Florida.

GEORGE and VIRGINIA LANE advised that during

their meeting with MARK LANE and CAROLYN MUGAR, they

received the very definite impression that MARK LANE and

MUGAR are romantically involved, although MUGAR appears

much younger than MARK LANE. MUGAR appears to be a "wild,

'hippie'"

type, and during conversation she indicated that

she assists MARK LANE as a photographer.

GEORGE and VIRGINIA LANE advised that besides the

interest which MARK LANE and MUGAR evidenced in the

RICHARDSON case, they also appeared very interested in any

trouble spots in Florida, such as Negro unrest and

mistreatment of Indians.

On October 29, 1969, a confidential source abroad

advised that during the month of October, 1969, an organization

known as the "English Language Committee"

was created in Paris,

France, with the objective of opposing the continuation of

the war in Vietnam, as well as the following additional

objectives: (5)

1)

Opposition to nuclear armament;

2)

Opposition to American imperialism;

3)

Action in favor of recognizing Communist China;

4)

Activity against racism in the United States

and throughout the world. (S

Source further stated

that during a meeting held

on October 15, 1969, at the American Center for Students and

Artists, 261 Boulevard Raspail, Paris, France, an initial

impetus was given to the English Languaze Committee by (5)

SECRELAs

DocId: 32311688 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote

DATE: 11-14-2017

SEORFT

NO 100-17689 - nmb

MARK LANE, a Lawyer and American writer (5?

NO T-4 (87

October 29, 1969

Another Government agency which

conducts investigations abroad advised

that on

November 14, 1969, MAKK LANE was the main speaker at a

teach-in against the war in Vietnam held at the University

of Munich, Munich, Germany. This meeting was attended by

400-600 individuals, and in his speech LANE likened the

atrocities of the Nazis at Dachau, which he had visited, to.

those allegedly committed in Vietnam by American soldiers

and South Vietnamese supported by American soldiers.

LANE

played a tape-recorded interview with an American deserter,

the grandson of General JOSEPH STILWELL. LANE also

discussed alleged resistance within the U.S. Army to the

war in Vietnam, claiming that the "brass"

was going to

extremes to stifle dissent. LANE asked his German audience

to assist those soldiers who want to desert or fight the

Army "brass" from within. Finally, he decläred that he was

returning to the United States within a month, although he

feared possible prosecution for providing assistance to

deserters.

On December 3, 1969, a second confidentil source

abroad furnished the following information concerning

MARK LANE: S)

The Communist-front organization "International

Association of Democratic Lawyers" (IADL) held its 8th Congress

in Budapest during the period March 30-April 3, 1964,

attended inter alia by a delegation from the Danish Section

named JORCEN JACOBSEN, ede erate washe Comeress, haahyer

to the Congress, had

collected

some material concerning the assassination of

President KENNEDY.

This material was to be used for a

draft resolution to the effect that the Congress was to

advocate unbiased incuiries into the circumstances surroun-

ding the assassination and the sequel to it. S

.14

DoeId: 32311688 Page 14

---

## Page 15

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hote.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NO 100-17689 - nmb

At the Congress, JORGEN JACOBSEN met the American

lawyer MARK LANE, who in his capacity of chairman of the

"Citizens! Committee of Inquiry" was working on an

independent inquiry into the murder, balls

the material prepared by the Dallas

Sonfidence in

Between JORCEN JACOBSEN and MARK LANÉ cooperation

was established on this draft resolution, which, incidentally,

was adopted by the Congress.

This cooperation

was developed

further, and led to the establishment in Denmark of a so-

called "Mark Lane Committee" for the purpose of collecting

all available information on the assassination of the

President and informing the public of any hushed-up or

suppressed details concerning the murder. (S

Following the Congress, however, MARK LANE himself

went to Denmark, where, in the "Lawyers' Debating Club,"

the "Students'

Association" in Copenhagen, and the "Students'

Society" in Arhus, he told about his inquiries so far, aiming

at proving that reactionary, fascist circles were behind the

assassination. of President

KENNEDY. (S)

The Danish "Mark Lane Committee," which may be

considered as

long

since dissolved, comprised a total of 16

individuals; the founder, JORGEN JACOBSEN, is known as a

Communist,

whereas the others mainly belonged

to cultural,

left-wing literary circles.

However, the activities of the

committee, mainly

based on

MARK LANE's inquiries in the

United States, failed to bring forth any sensational

disclosures. The work of the American authorities on the

ase was, on the other hand, criticized and the report ol

ine "arren Commission has denounced as a fraud.

In connectin with the references of the Danish

press to this matter, in November, 1964, the "Berlingske

published an article, the contents of which MARK LANE

considered defamatory. The result was a libel action against

the neusparer, and on forember 11, 1965, the High Court found

the statecents of the raper ill-founded. The responsüble(5)

15

SECREL

DoeId: 32311688 Page 15

---

## Page 16

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote

• DATE: 11-14-2017

SECA

NO 100-17689 - nmb

editor was sentenced to pay 2500 D.kr. costs, whereas a

claim for damages to the amount of no less that 5000 D.kr.

was rejected.

In this case JORGEN JACOBSEN acted as counsel

FOr MARK LANE. (5)

In 1966, MARK LANE, who in the meantime had

married a Dane and

temporarily settled in Denmark, published

a book entitled Rush to Judement, the substance of which is

that the murder of the President was not the work of a single

individual, but a conspiracy. Based on this book, a

documentary film was subsequently produced. Moreover, in

the course of the years since the assassination, MARK

LANE

a great number of lectures about his inquiries and his

opinion of the events in Dallas on November 22, 1963.

(5)

MARK LANE, who is

currently residing in the

United States, does not

appear to have attracted notice in

connection with the activities displayed in Denmark

assist American deserters, and so far, no connection was

noted between him and Danish deserters' committees. In

July, 1968, however, an IAD meeting took place in Grenoble,

France; an item on the agenda of this meeting concerned the

legal basis of refusing to take part in wars of aggression.

The identities of the participants of this meeting are not

known, but the fact that the IADl dealt with the subject and

that the two former IADL delegates are personally acquainted

and associated with this Communist front organization seems

to indicate that, some time or other, the idea arose between

them to bring American deserters to Denmark in order to

onfront the authorities of a NATO country with a con

equest for political asylum for American deserters. (fer

The case of the two deserter American soldiers,

, which caused so much

light of this. Escorted by MARK LANE, PRICE and ALDERTON

arrived in Denmark by air from France on Cetober 12, 1969,

and immediately on arrival in the airport reguested political

asylum in Denmark. On arrival, the two deserters were,(s

SECRET

• DoeId:32311688 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hover

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NO. 100-17689 - nmb

incidentally, met by the chairnan of the "Danish Committee

for Aid to US Deserters," KNUD JENSEN, with whom they stayed.

JORGEN JACOBSEN handled

MARK LANE

indicated to the press that this was a deliberate and planned

attempt to obtain political asylum in Denmark for American

deserters, and he added that he had filmed the whole trip and

the sequence of events up until then for the purpose of

showino the film in the United States

as a feature of the

campaign against the war in Vietnames,

On November 11, 1969, the Danish Minister of

Justice refused the request for political asylum of both the

deserters in question.(S)

REGINALD RAY ALDERTON, born February 27, 1947, in

Harvard, Illinois, left Denmark immediately, and on

November 13, 1969, he applied for political asylum in

Sweden. (S)

TED HAGE PRICE, born April 19, 1949, in Cleveland,

Ohio, was granted temporary residence permit for six months

in Denmark while it is being decided whether he may return

to France. (S)

NO T-5

December 3, 1969

17

DoeId: 32311688

Page 17

---

## Page 18

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote

DATE: 11-11-2017

SEONEL

NO 100-17699 - crl

headquarters and then to the Staff Judre Arvorate General herr

a mosting ith

the Bare Commander deterrined trat LAND coul!

not distrihute

the "ralping Hard" or the Air forre Base and

requester that he rotrieve those alreary distributed.

On Jui!

, 10?1, VARY LANE did not return to the

Mountair Home Air Forre Rase and no iscues of the

"Helping Fand".

mere dietriluted on the hase.

The July

11. 1971

isne of tha

"Inale Taily Staterran.

" Poise.

Iraho. quoted Mine Commatres

Colonel TIPY L. WAPDTH

Mountain More Ait Borne Page as

refusire comicsion to distribute the rielpire Vard" because

it arvorator resistarce to authority and, therefore, ras a

cancer to diocipline, loyalty, and morale, a violation of

Torce rectations.

At

apprecirately 6i00 an Aurust 1, 1001. 11 archers

including 31 Ois and romen Air Vorce service laries from the

mountain Home Air Force Pase,

Mountain Wore, Idaho, heran a

to Dotso,

Idaho.

The march wae led by wink land and the rarchers arrive?

in Boise, Iraho, at 11:00 a.m. on August ?,

1071 here they

attender

a church corvice at Ironuel Vethodist Clum!, Poise,

Iraho.

At 17:00

noon:

on the game date.

approximatoly ar of

marchors then asserbled at the orle headquarters or te

Morrison-tudsen Construction Corpany buirine. 100 Broaday

10? spectators and marchers

heard

LAPRIL kNUrSEN, adopter rrand-son of the founder of the

company, male a speech on the desire for peace. The marchers

then

raised three home-rade flags hearing the words "Bring 'Im

Hore" on the Morrison-Knursen flagpoles at that site.

A thire confidertial

source abroad advised that MAnk

LiNF of New Yor! City"as

in

free "grah

Paris, France, during t'e period

a miler

Marci

1071.

Puring his visit, LANE rare

of contarts

with Vietrarase revolutionary organiration:

the far

loft

to an in viction.

-ith-hor te discussed

1197-

SECRET

32.

DoeId: 32311688 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote

DATE: 11-14-2017

SE

NG 100-17689 - cr1, nmb

in the assistance of MARX-NO VAN INGTM, LANE ret

mith ALAN

an leaper of the Commune teamed

VAN INGEN

authorities ao a french ational an. ronher

of the Fourth

who was in

Interrational mopeon gretstylet

Orarization,

Brussels, Pelgiur

the recasion

international reeting of Furopean revolution-

arjes.

The

reeting letween LANd and MIVIN marticularly

dealt

"ith the

fire collatoration baucen

the Countrie!

Learue and JANe FONnA, he reporterly, le very much uder

LAn's influenne.

LANt is sair

to rave contrilater

on trangs,

nonint Learue.

in Paris, LiNT

lutionard bo's

with regard

to having one of his hooks

published.

)EC)

NO T-19

May 11, 19.1

On August 23, 1971, another Government agency which

conducts investigations abroad furnished the followine

information: (

During

the summer of 1971, MARK LANE visited Paris,

France, while on

his way to Italy.

LANE was believed to be en

route to Bologna, Italy, to attend the national conference of

Lotta Continua, an Italian Marxist-Leninist group, which was

scheduled for July 24-25, 1971. (X (W

The source stated that LANE currently heads

"Helping Hand,"

a servicemen's underground newspaper in Utah

which is directed

toward personnel of an Air Force base in

that state. Lint indicated that he is very encouraged by the

response "Helping Hanu" has received, and

stated that he hoped

to convince the servicemen

on the base to sabotage their work,

which, according to late, is very specialized and consists in

rart of helping lay out tomb runs in south vietnam.

As an

example of a method of saboraro, LavE proposed altering the

tomb run layouts by flucing pencil marks slightly off their

correct positions. (X)(Y

SECKEL

33

DoeId: 32311688 Page 19

---

## Page 20

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE; 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSITTED EXCEPS

THERE SHOWN OTHERNISE.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dallas, Texas

March 30, 1966

denied

7/1493

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

Classified by 7803-Rdal EH

JOHN F. KENNEDY

Declassify on: OADR

(FK)

November 22, 1963, Dallas, Texas

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

On the night of March 28, 1966, Mrs. Jean Lollis Hill,

9402 Bluff Creek, Dallas, Texas, telephone number EV 1-2271,

telephonically contacted the Dallas Office of the Federal Bureau

of Investigation (FBI) and requested that she be contacted by a

Special Agent familiar with the assassination investigation.

On the morning of March 29, 1966, Mrs. Hill advised

that during the past week she has been telephonically contacted

on several occasions by an individual identifying himself as

De Antonio who indicated he and a Mr. Black were preparing an

educational television documentary concerning the assassination

of President Kennedy and desired to interview her in detail.

stated that she had not consented to such an interview but on

the evening of March 28, 1966, two individuals identifying them-

selves as De Antonio and Black, appeared at her residence for the

She stated that she questioned them

as to the exact nature of their visit and being a school teacher,

herself, doubted that they were endeavoring to compile data for

any edicational television documentary relating to the assassination.

Mrs. Hill stated that she had previously talked to an

individual named Jones Harris, who was also desiring to interview

her for purposes of a book he was writing and that Jones Harris

had indicated to her that De Antonio was one of "Mark Lane's men."

Mrs. Hill advised that she specifically asked De Antonio

and Black if they were connected with Mark Lane and De Antonio

admitted that Mark Lane was "one of their backers."

She stated

De Antonio mentioned that some of the backing was coming from

England for his project.

riotersaan

property

it and

capuse

i..

XED

4 E JAIN IU 1973

CONFIDENTIAL

FLOSURE

+2-10 4060-4096

DooId:32311688 Page 20

---

## Page 21

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Moter

• DATE: 11-14-2017

Re:

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN F. KENNEDY

November 22, 1963, Dallas, Texas

February, 1965, telephone PL 5-8310.

On February 25, 1965, Florance Gaffney, operator of Belles

North Limited Answering Service, basement of apartment house located

at 221 East 78th Street, New York, New York, advised that Jones

Harris, at the above-mentioned New York address,

was convinced

that

Lee Harvey Oswald did not assassinate President Kennedy and that

Harris believed Oswald was one of the persons appearing in a well

published photograph of a group of people appearing in the doorway

of the Texas School Book Depository building on the day of the

assassination. She indicated that Harris was supported in this

theory by

a New York attorney, Arnold Krakower.

MrS.

Gaffney described Harris as a free lance

writer,

white

male, in his early thirties, short stocky build, about 5'6"

tall,

dark hair, balding, and dark eyes.

On January 12, 1966, DL T-1, a confidential

source abroad,

furnished information

to the effect that Mark Lane had finished

reading the proofs of his book dealing with the assassination of

President Kennedy, entitled "Rush to Judgment."

According to this

source, an article appeared in the Danish newspaper "Lolland-Falsters

Folketidende"

, on January 4, 1966, which related that a documentary

The film was to be

made by De Antonio, not further identified, and was to be based on

pictures taken by American Broadcasting System and the Columbia

Broadcasting System.

The article indicated that in February, 1966,

Lane and his assistants

were going to Dallas to talk to witnesses

of the assassination. (C

Warren Allen Réynolds, 8707 Mosswood, Dallas, Texas,

advised the Dallas Office of the fBl on March 30, 1966, that he had

been recently contacted by an Emile de Antonio

a producer for

Judgment Films Corporation, New York City, New York, formerly

associated with BBC-TV, New

York City (not

further identified).

Antonio advised Reynolds that his film company was making an educa-

tional film regarding the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

Antonio indicated they were staying at the Arlin Motel, Arlington,

-3 -

DoeId: 32311688 Page 21

---

## Page 22

Released underothfeJghn,f Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel :

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREI

TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF LUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

BENJAMIN P. MC MANUS

12/17/64

NY 100-117844

MARK LANE

CIA HAS NO OSLEC%ON TO

DECLASS. i

NG/OR.

RETU

AMATION

IN THiS VOLUMERT

KP 5-11-98

SLOKSR Office:

5-16-98

JFK, Bureau File #:

New York, New York!

100-409763

Title:

ATT, INFORMATION CONCAINED

AARON IS UNCLASSRFTED EXCEPT

STORE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Character:

SECURITY MATTER - C

2/21/95

Declassiy on: DADR 554)

Synopsis:

MARK LANE resides 164 W. 79th St., NYC, and is an

attorney-at-law with offices located at 156 5th Ave., NYC.

1s also National Chairman of the Citizens' Committee of Inquiry

LANE

located at 156 5th Ave., NYC. LANE reportedly: addressed

on the Integration of the Legal Profession of the National Lawyer's

Gu1la, 5/64; as of 8/17/64, was Vice Chairman of the NYCAHUAC;

received support of the NY branch of the WWP, 1964 and travelled

throughout the US during 1964 speaking on his theories regarding

the assassination of President JOHN F. KENNEDY. LANE travelled

to Europe in April and May, 1964, during which time he spoke on

supported by elements of the Italian CP. LANE interviewed by FBI

the KENNEDY assassination in various countries. [In Italy LANE LyU

agents 4/29/64, at which time he was uncooperative.

reportedly writing

LANE

committee of Inquiry in NYC with branches in other sections of

the US and Europe.

-P-

100-40816150

55p966

SECRET,

xcluded from automati

downgrading and

declassification

This document contains neither recommendations nor conch: ions of the FBi.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed out ide your agency.

DocId: 32311688 Page 22

---

## Page 23

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREM

NY 100-117844

On May 21, 1964, by means of a suitable

pretext by a Special Agent of the FBI, it was

determined MARK LANE would leave New York City

via air on May 22, 1964, for a six week trip to

Europe. It was learned MARK LANE expected to make

Belgium, England, and the citles of Milan, Florence

and Rome, Italy.

On June 18, 1964, Mr. DANTEL STRAYER,

Chief, Records and Information

Section, Immigration

and Naturalization Service (INS), 20 West Broadway,

New York City,

furnished information which

reflected MARK LANE departed the United States on

May 22, 1964, as a passenger on scandinavian

Airlines System,

Incorporated, flight number 912

en route to Copenhagen, Denmark.

On July 27, 1964, NY I-89, a confidential

source abroad, advised MARK LANE resided at 61 Rue

Bonaparte,

Paris, France, from May 27, 1964 to

June 2, 1964 and

again on Jüle 12, 1954J(5)

On July 17, 1964, it 1-90, a confidential

source abroad, advised MARY JAlt arrived in Florence,

Italy, on June 17, 1964, in company with a Danish

citizen named ANNALISE DABELSTEEN, who was born or

May 15, 1941, in Denmark. 17(4)

June 17, 1964, LANE held a press conference

NXT 90 advised that on the evening of E 4)

at the

Cultural

castures dent rein florane on the subject "How

• NY 1-90 stated LANE

departed Florence, Italy, on June 18, 19648X US

-22-

DocId: 32311688 Page 23

---

