# docid-32336865

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/2/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90135-10260

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-82298-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

HQ

PA

TITLE:

DATE: 02/27/1961

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TRANSLATION FROM FRENCH

V9.1

DocId: 32336865

13

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TRANSLATION DRON ERICACE

RIY CUTEL

NONOXO

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

Sp8MACGAT (JFK.

ADR 1128/83

5/16/94

diassified hy.

Declassify on:

(Continued)

26 %

and of

July 1960:

attempted assaesination in

Italy

by the Franquist police:

a short trip of UPEPE? to

the Freaco

- Spanish bordere

in racks,

"PETE* contacts

LIZANA who 1e11e

Wim to g0

to Liege.

27$

August 5, 1960: mooting in Brescoux; "JUANJO»

questioned by "PaPE".

26

August

documenta

1960: arrest to Liege; weapons and

are selzed:

according

to objects

29 t

Propaganda

(outside

Spain and Spanish rofugees!

circles).

Actor

failure.

the Pards Congress (15/12/1950:

December 15,

1959)

ontrusted by VELD with

spreading oxtensively, espectaily among

diptonatic ropresentetives of

Monocratic

In Frauce,.

a nanifesto

• In which

ULS

8NP/D1S 6/21/18

CLASSIFIED BY 6922

EXEMPT FROM GDS CATEGORY.

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INDEFINITE

countries

accredited

aota forth its goals.

that be personally' took these manifestees

addressees.

The sanc

SPEFEY is appointed (April 1960) to coaduct

Dro Dadande

àn the Frenon

intelleotual cireles of

Paris:

recoives Trom VELO a list of the people

contacted.

Among

there 18

a Spanish vonan

worling at

"Prance-Prosse".

dows paperman

Wonde"'

whose nage

clains

to have forgotten.

1D e

and

bomb outrages

00

17/2 and 24/6/1960 (February 17

June

24% are

$0-

bo considored ne nets

of propajanda:

According

& JUANJO

these outrages one ained at do

020

particalar.

They are meant

to impress public

opinion

to creat in

Spain Itsole a state of

aWay

psychosie.

Their purpose

2159

• do to koop Souriets

Fron

Spain

and

thereby

• to lower the amonat

; of toreign

enrrency.

TRANSLATED BY:

EDWARD

P. ARBEZ: g962. A.

February 27, 1961

12:998: 9-105-84298

S

ENCLOSURE

SECRET

CONEIDENTIAL

DocId: 32336865

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

30$

SECRET

The

miscion laid by "JUANJOr apon

AMARINO® (23/6/1960:

June 23) was

intonded also, in JuANJo's mind, to be

for propaganda.

"RARINOR

Jocate 0220 SKOREAUX.

HAS

to go to Madeid and fry to

It he found hing Was, was

coptured by the DeR.IoL. "and his capturo, in *JUA#JO*g*

have created & psychological climate

Cavorable

Mote:

SKORZENY had succeeded

In tronsferring to

3w Taerland suns of

money

for gone nombers of the legal

goveronent of Spal:

Minally,

•JUANJO" 0009

to Pardo (June 1960) to

spread

in the

pross a manitesto signed MeaDoZA (RAVI aoc

ROMARA

In that manitesto, the °D B.I.L."

claino

responslbility for the

recent terrorist octrages

comitted in Spaln•

Prospocts and Recruiting:

In TonIouse, "PAPE recruite

(February 1960) «JUANJO9

to whom he will entrust

miestone of

* intornatior and

execution.

According

dO PJDANJO"

at the time of hie

ocatact with ePREE®

tho lottor asked hin 1f he was

randy to go 19 50210

in order to carry on the fight,

even by violeny neans,

against the talked cogame:

on sort sets parented, cant, In the resent

At the ond ef March 1960,

#RAFABL, MARIA" undertakes

tour. of

prospecting in belgiun in the Spanlah Rofugee

colonies.

In Siego bo goatacts

*ARS& (sagrupacion republicano

eo Heja = the

Spanist Regublican Group of

Llege).

Very G00ß,

he

be come 5

that its mentore are folly

Antegrated

1a

helgian comminity.

This matos 17

Inposeible

to recruit

then as execution agents.

However,

ho m00ts

with

real: sympathy and avidont pood

will, and be

thinks that the nembers

oC. "AREL Day

be usod for other purposes,

notably for lodging

active agents

In Druscots, he contacts, withont success:

SECRET

16 -

DocId: 32336865

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F.

Kennery Assassination Records

DATE: 11-14-2017

Colection

Aot of 1992 +44 05C 2107 Hote):

31:

SECRET

1/ the CARCIA LORCA Group which is opposed to violent

act102%

2/

the Waleta

(Genoral Union of Spanish Workers).

they

are atherente of the group headed

by

Cenore?

. Sh

CAMPESINO woon the

"D.R.I.L® regarde as

a conmen

murderer.

3/

The "Third Repubile Group" which niso takes ito orders

tron

"OL CAMPESINO,

Finally,

we should

rocall the recrulting of MARINg

by #JUAN3O"

in Barcelona,

(23/6/1960: June 23).

Ke

nay recall bore that that

and

the

mission entrusted

to

him are

que to Personal

initiative of "JUARJO",

Information

Missione

When "PUF8" was sent to Faris (Novesber 1959) to

attond the Congrees

the Ant1-FRANCO

groups, his

mission was to report abett

the various tendencies

whion manifested

themselves among the delegates of

those

groups.

After the fallure of that

congress (15/12/1959

Decenber 15), be was

sent to farboate

(January 1960) •

Re was

• to moot

there

ennissary the was to come fron

Andeld and band

hip

roport on the anti-FRANCO positione

ni thin

tho

Amy, the Clorgy and the Administration

La Spalu.

Imedintoly after his recruiting (February 1960)

#JUANJO" As sent

to

Madrid.

Wis wission is te be

introduced

to universlty elroles and

otroles closely

connected with the "Palango", in orter to study the

politioal clinate

and

tondencies at

that

time,

Ho

succeede in finding a

Job as a decorator in

the

Univeralty

• Theater of

the FALANGE.

During

stoy in Asdrid #JUANJO" wrote 3

coded

reporto which he forwarded

Caracas, Apartado 3365,

Roadquartors of the "D.R.%.L.*:

SECRET

• 17 ce

DocId: 32336865

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John .

F. Kennety Assassination

DATE: 11-14-2017

Records

Collection. Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

1/

2/

3/

32 :

SECRET

reporta

on tho cireles of

the

University Theater of

FALANGEls trono

opposition

to FRANCO);

& Toport

the

"climato" within

the special

Architectere

and Mining Scbools

in Madrid (opposition

10

tho

в горос?

he draws attontion

to tho

fact that he

Beata

frot

Spanist pollconan

that one of those who

t00k

part 10

bonb outrage of 17/2/1960 (February 17);

#JUS2S0° hod pode

o confession and

that the police

uno going to ase

NJUSETHO®

Cor the

arrest of

alt tho

monber's

ot

the organization,

As for

on the pocasion of bis

so journe in

Pario (Pobrpary » March • April 1960); ho

pias 10

gather information on anti«VRARCO

tendencios which night

menitest

themsolves in Tranch and Spaninh circles:

"RAFAEG • MARIA" recoivos & similar alsaion in Franco

and

Celgina:

As sald aboves

he was also piven a prospectino

and recruiting rission,

Ke

•regard

$106

os 'an intornation mission

RAPADL-

MARTA' S

"denarche? in

Belgrade

around 13/7/1960 (July

13).

The

question vas thore to subalt to Marshali 1x70 the

condidaer

• ot

as unidentified

. member of the

AS

onbassador te Belgrade of the Spanich

Republic Covurament

in Triled

me latter hoe expretire emagreenent

9 RAFAEL-NADIA"

' wes bnaile to sec

1000S127 Dead 0/ Stat

th o

was away.

A ascrotary invited hin to

Inform hin

anound

the middle of

" Angust of the address

to which

tho

Horsts21*g

tine ,

and conte not follow ep

the matter.

Execution Mastons

The boub outrages of Madrid 17/2/1960, (February 17)•

According to "SCANJO",

the

following were responaible for

those outrages:

*GUSTAVOR

otheruise

• Known as BARIXA0&

50r0s0,

,(Santiago); So la reported to

be a Cuban

national.

tha t

bor

Ao to say ALVAREZ - MONTERO (JUSTINO

* 18 ÷

SECRET

DocId: 32336865

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released unter the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

• ARAD-DODOSO (ASTONIO)

SECRET

→ FEREZ JURADO (RANOD)

According

to

the

same informer,

bombs had

been

set

in three different

places :

the Congross building:

In the PALANCE bullding,

Toledo streets

and

io tho

*Iberia" Company, Reptune place.

The Barcelona bomb outrages

(24/6/1960 = Junc 24)

The pere is accordance vile the receips internal

carried out two daye

leto":

RJUANJO»

Barcelona a certain »CHRIStINO* who hands over to him

Ervoling bag (60 x 40 x 18 contineters).

It contained

16 X1108+

of explosives and 4 plastic pencile, with

Instructiong-

Nà to

that material, "JUANJ0" nade

A doleyed action

bombe, the

explosion vos

to be caused by the action of

an acid 01

notale

* JUANJO"

checked a bomb at the "North Station" and

200 ther

one at the "Prance Station"

He tried

ananccessfully to

send

the third one as a parcel hy the

luxury

train faAoF., and was obliged to send

18 by an

ordinary train to the cloat- room ia Saragossa.

Be

seat

the fourth one by rail to the cloak-room in Madrid,

• mcaber*

of the "DoRI.L." - an information and execution

agent *

know 89

"BERED"

Me was in foulouse on

20/6/196G (June 20) in tho apartment of VALA? (VON

(5 Deodora

female companion of "pEtE", 9h0

vas rigiting aJuANJo".

#JUANJO* ChLaks

that

THEREO" 1s

subordinate

and

he loarned

about

that he was an ongineer

Living

1 Fr

Essen (Goranny) , and

engaged to a German

dancer..

Hotel

of

tho

WAS

to

• kave

joined "JANJO% In Parlo at the

Saint Louis,

in order to help him in

the spreading

*D-Kolobe

manifesto (June 1960).

- 19 - SECRET

DocId: 32336865

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under. the Tohn

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

SECRE

CU

23 :

whore one can meat in Asson-lerden

(Germany) , 185

Inlovontal, in

• the

aportmeat of bie

• concubine

MANGIER.

18 100

CHIRAOR 13

tho

agent who works in

Parise

Be carriOS

on propaganda and

looke for assistance in

socialist

stutent oirclos

Spanish clamonte.

whon are

Found some

Regarded as

vory inteligent,

ho has;

according.to

"PAra" obtained worthy resolts

& n

tinse

circLes.

usually lives

in Prance and

goes

10 Boson for

personal purposco or in case of danger.

As for SOPRA, who had been

sent to the Tarle Congross

(Decentber 1959) be operates

In Atrica,.

in Spainiah

Morocco 250 in

A93010-

In this lattor

country, 1t 1s

reported that

there to a connection with WilMA,

A permanent

apent called LIZANA lives in

Switzerland.

He was in

Paris

at the and of July and not

ho took on 1/8/1960 (Auguet 1) to tho Borth Station.

Before

boarding the chip,

# PEPD"

Intrusted

all his papers

to LIBANA®

Lastly, we

ghould mention that at the time of shis arrost

in Lloge on baguet 6,

1060g

and RADAEL-MARXA"

wore

found

haring in

thelr

posséssion:

-leapons

(pletols) loaded stick)

on firing

devico without

the detonator.

•& sabotage handbook, ulth drawings of explosive devices

and

explaining how

to explode various

objaets and

According to the statements of

thia

bandbook ves

composed by tho

Spanish General

ALSAR2O

BAYO who

Lives

in Caba,

The monbors

of the "D R.toL," who

the police state

that

Car

this

stage

th18 program,

that 1c

have

beer

balled befor

action was

the first

say o

the

propaganda

stago.

In a

short

they were

10

90 en

the second

• stago,

sonsisting in niallory action

notione

They

especialiy politieal

were vaiting

i for diroctives fren Caracas.

SECRET

DocId: 32336865

Page 7

---

