# docid-32324702

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90030-10157

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 166-4028-84

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 12/11/1972

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

MAURICE MEDLEVINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

V9.1

DocId: 32324702

Page 1

25

---

## Page 2

D DATE 11-12-2015 John Y. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Ait it I992 TarNSt MIY Water.

o.ca

LA 166-1875

ADMINISTRATIVE

This case was carried in a Pending Inactive status

until the apprehension of OGUL on 5/4/72, in New York

The matter has been pending prosecution since this date.

Legat, Tel Aviv advised by letter dated 5/24/72,

that a stop has

been placed in the files of the Israeli

National Police against any departure by MEDLEVINE from

Israel.

The Legat, Tel Aviv has been requested by

separate communication to verify MEDLEVINE's residence

in Tel Aviv.

to LEO OGUL, both he and MEDLEVINE had become citizens of

Israel, and

in April, 1972 advised that a month previously he had

received

a letter from MEDLEVINE from Tel Aviv, Israel.

The

return address reflected a post office box number unrecalled.

by the informant.

In the letter, MEDLEVINE stated that someone

in the United States was working on his case and that he was

looking forward to returning to the United States as he was

miserable in Israel. The informant said he threw the letter

away.

LEAD

LOS ANGELES

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA: Will report the

results of the lead

set out for the

Legat, Tel Aviv to

verify the location of MEDLEVINE in Tel Aviv.

- BA

-

COVER

PAGE

DocId: 32324702 Page 2

---

