# docid-32328010

## Page 1

/ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination Systen

Date:

4/17/201

Identification Forn

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90067-10020

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-98497-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 04/24/1961

PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS :

SERGIO ARCACHA SMITH

JOSE ENRIQUE ALEMANY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE.

COMMENTS: MEMO;

v9.1

DocId: 32328010

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records collection Act of 1992 (11 Use 2107 Hotel

DATE: ,11-14-2017

CONIFINENTIAL

RE: JOSE ENRIQUE ALEMANY; CARLOS RICARDO SOLOMON

president took office. In late 1960

and early 1961, SOLOMON

was seen by another Cuban student,

unidentified, passing out

literature and pamphlets published by various departments of

the Cuban government to Latin American students on the LSU campus,

including Cuban students.

SOLOMON speaks favorably of CASTRO.

ISASI knew of no information that SOLOMON is a communist or

communist sympathizer.

In conclusion, ISASI advised that there is literature

present Cuban government.

On February 20

1961,

and April 18, 1961, NO 1084-s, *U

who is familtar with some phases

of Communist Party and related

activities in the Baton Rouge, Louisiana,

area, advised that the

above-mentioned Cuban students at LSU (referred to by ISASI) are

unknown to

him and he has no information concerning them.

In view of the allegations re both subjects SOLOMON

and ALEMANY indicating they were active in passing out literature

published by the Cuban government, New Orleans, has opened separate

cases on these subjects to determine extent of

their activities

and whether or not their actions

place them within purview of

Foreign Agents Registration Act.

CONFIDE TU

DocId: 32328010

Page 2

---

