# docid-32327497

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90064-10068

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

87-15374-44

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DN

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/08/1951

PAGES:

21

SUBJECTS :

VICTOR EMANUEL PEREIRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS; RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32327497

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIG

EL PASO

нT MOOs AT

TOOD FON THO

20/8/51

9/25,26, 27;

10/2/57

CHAUCET" VICTOR, SMANUAL PERBIRA

• (Ти), тая

SENCE SiS Of FACTS:

=

PAUL, B. BUSH:

ITERSTATI I!

DELTA FRAM

Sidnery";

KrO. CERCUUDE'J.

JOYCE - VICTI

87940

No additional

intormation concaming subjects deval

at SPOE Lodge

No. 17, Denver,

Colorado.

CORT IS ROT

iGER elimina:ad

as suspact.

sent fron Denver to subject

4/24/51 by ROBERT BRC.N

Denver pambler,

GIBSCA to send

jestem Union,

Denver, Colorado, proper person

subpoena to produce original telegran.

KILLER,

clerk,

District Court, both

to

testify PEREIR: had no divorce action pending

CotT, county, burt Denver, Colorado, compete 4 - 1

DeriveT,

Colorado,

in 1951.

with DOUGL:S DE ESSE OF DE ZUSSIE, Attorney-at-lan,

Pino, Norada.

J.MES ER DLEY LSE registered Daven Haven

Lodge,

ürand Lake, Colorado, 7/25-29/50. No Cosiopolitan

¡sodel jocated Colorado Springs, Colorado. iDi PERBTR..

operated St. Francis Hotal,

Denver,

Colorado,

, 12/22/50

ко 4/26/51.

Subject VICTOR PEREIR: had no Minancial

interest in this establishment.

•DI PERRIRA reported

to have financial interest in Senator Hotel, Rano,

Naivada.

- RUC -

COPY IN FILE

- он поо потом

15374-1

OCT 18, 1951

BEY

25

• you by the FBI and do

+* 195)

DocId: 32327497 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

7

7

Г

Di: 87-1634

COPIRS OF THIS REPORIS

1

1

1

2

Onetrmat1 (Into)

Chicago (Into)

Cleveland (IncoS

Dellas (Info)

Detroit (Info)

Kanges City (Info)

Little Rock (Info)

k1.2n1 (Into)

Kinneapolis (Info)

Ok. home City (Info)

PROOnIX

Salt Lake City

San besato (Info)

Sen DIaRo (Info)

ian. 4ra2c1sc0 (Info)

lew York (Info)

Dinter

88-15374-44

L

DocId: 32327497

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Motel

DATE: 11-14-2017

77

ĐN 57-1634

11011701

Le isina chongad to inclado the name

OI RODENT ERGIN GIESON as à subjèci and to indiado

SMULL PEREIR as true DaDe of subject PEREIR. as indicatod in the

report of special fent RiDION I: HITLION datod September 25, 1951,

at Neti York.

and the reporting agent.

Vr. JIMES PITT, Secretary, B. P. O. E. Lodgo No. 17, 1401

streot, Denver, Colorado, exhibited records reflecting

CaC: OPpREbor kay 3, 1913, at Port Jones, I, Leaval, Colorado,

residence address 411 14th Street (St. Francis Hotel), Denver,

was introduced to that Lodge on December 1, 1950, by DuDE l. CiRE)

and nas initiated on january il, 1951.

His membership is paid up

to irril 1, 1952, the last payment of dues in the mount of $18.00 having

bech

recalved Hay 2,

1951.

it that time he requested that his residence

adaross be changed to

401 Lith Street, Roswell, New Headco.

The records of the lodge reflect that the membership of DüDB k.

CHEY was transferred from Kansas City, lissourt, Lodge No, 96 to Denver

Lodco 10. 17 on -spr1l 4, 1950.

nothing concoming do baccorand . 1ust:.:=

By teletype dated September 25, 1951, the Bl Paso OffIce

requested Denver to immedataly intorrier CUtIS ROEs LicER concor.-

Totally sent rom denver, Colorado tened I

1951,

tc VICTOR 3. PERETRi, Roswell, Nea Mexaco.

that al attenpt be nado to sacure original of this telegram or namo of

appropriate person to be subpoenaed to produce the sane.

Ur. CURTIS ROBERT JAGNER Toluntarily appeared at the Denver

Office on Septerker 26, 1951, at which time he was interviewed by

Stecial aperit GBOPGE E.

GIlLEs and the reporting agent.

stated that he is President of the fagner Machine and Hill Supply

Caspery, Ilia,

1114 lork Street, Denver, Colorado, and resides with

83-15374-44

DocId: 32327497

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

Dr. 87-1634

Calesco

compart, tir

stand?.

rair nila including the production of loed grisders, bej rejara

In verlous parts end accossorion used in grain Illie.

Be stried that

he his been engaged in this business sinco 1859.

Tilior stetod shit bo

-Is IOM Wiret 20, 1910, at Castertonn, 11880Ur1, that bo rasdded in

ansis City for a number of jeste and was s somber of the Detectiva

Jure 'ü of the langia CIty Polico Depertzant fron 1954 vatil' 1855.

suciad thit be care to Denver In 1957 and has readded in Lenver

s1:ce that tine.

Fe rolatod that approximitaly tuo or three yo:ra ago lo via

rastaing at an apartment at 1301 High Strost,

Danor, at which tire

he tec to acquelnted with DADE :. QJE

and h1s itse,

"SOLDIE". Fe

satec tast the GusTS were residing in the sane epartment builüing

int told his that they had formerly rosided in tenses City, lisecurI.

Ba

suitad tiat CiPay apponrod ti have no regul:r business but

almagy appeared

tu have glenty of soney and he learned after e lou monthal acquaintance

Tita Crit that the letter wes a professional gambler.

He -tatod that

In the Fall of 1919, he, in parthership wich l El, purchased e residenco

at 7:7 tientort Street,

enver, : ard that just befora Christnas,

1949,

he and his wifa sovad into

this residence which they abered tits D. k.

Cist and his itio.

He stetod that shortly thereafter G'FBI, sits his

lio, sáde an extended trio to l'exies and aftor they returned to jentor

uno or three sontha later,

the CiRBYS startod sragone elaborate parties

it the lemport Street address in which occaslons,

D. Y.. CHII tas

obviusly gambling heavily with his guasts.

"CHER stated that gambl-

1ns activitios contimed at the Neport Stroat address to such an

inant that he and his mile, who sever ang'ged in ganbllag activitles,

cecare dissatioriod anà moved out of tir rosiders 1s Iscenber, 1950=

¡e stited that he continued to be on friendly rolations

it': Cast and in the Sprin; of 1950, at rhich sine ho was atteipting

io produce a speciil air corpressor at the nagcer kachina and lill supply

Copany, be borrorod approvinatoly i15, 500.00 1a cash Iron Citi to

enteid operations on this compressor.

He steted that CiREY nas never

actually an official of agner lachine and l1ll Supply Company and

ras interegiod in the f1m only to the extent of bla investunt on tbe

ir compresser.

He related that this projoct eventually fall through,

hat CiRsT now hag no interest in the firm but that be still ones

CiRSY approtimitaly 2,000.00 cs the criednel $15, 000.00 loan,

8615074-44

DocId: 32327497 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

7

7

Г

DH: 37-1654

ft, commonly krow, a.

so i on.

Liftis the partling nocrations. Ha

stated that thuy operats in privi

Ganos; that CREY 1s a "dico man" and that KING aspally operates as a

"sticrus" nd afront man" to Mura the suckers into the graos."

Be

stated that KING and CiREY have sls0 operated with BRNIE B. J0ODUFD

of jansas City, lissourt, tho 19 a professional "eard shark".

'INER reflected that VICTOR E. PEREIR: and Di. PERETA.

care to Denvir in the Simmer of 1950, at which time they vlalted with

the CUEIS it 747 Newport Streut, and apparently had bean acquainted

with the CuREYS for 3 number of years.

He stated that this was the firat

to that be not tine

PEREIR'S nd it was his understanding at that tine,

that they had been divorced some quers ago but were frequently together.

Ee steted that he understood that id PERSIfis Cas an interest in the

Senator Hotol, Reno, Nevida, and that she spends considerable time in

insas City, Missouri.

Re related that after mecting PERili, be

coerved that the latter was frequently. in the company of XING and

CuRti; that PERkIri was a "good ulxer" and apparently was used to

Ture the suckerg" into crap ganes in which CiRBY and KING participetad.

ir.

"UNER statud thrt 17 bout Decenber, 1950, ill PERilt, purchasad

Trengis Hotel at 411 14th Street

Tappeti resided thire tut thit VICTOR oned no intereat in th

Dener, Calorado, that she and

ta stated that to the best of his racollaction, iDi: sold the

st.

muncis Hotel durine the latter part of Pebruary, 1951.

Vr. "WIN R further related that one J. ILOTD SIRSON, of

ilb.

Colorado,

who owns ranch interosts in that area, has frequently

eated ath' KINS and C.Pat and has apparently been used by thes

for the rugese of contacting walthy renchers tho ben be Realen" 1n

card ard die: FaDEs.

Fe stated thet ROBERT BRON GIBSON, SOn Of J. LLOYD GIBSCHI,

2as, ter sche tire, bean closely assoclated with KING and CiRRY and

parently has recently der participating in gambling operetions

Fitis iien.

Be stated that he first net ROBERT BROIN GIBSON during the

221l c1950 at which tine he ras introduced to GIBSON by CRET. He

stadid trit shortly theruafter, he entered into a business agreement

"l'Si!' and took him into the lagner Hechine and kill Sapply Company

is a senter if the firm.

He stated that GIBSON put up several thousand

bilars but turned out to be a very undesirable business partner an

mas "milning the tusinoss" by ganbling with the customers and "playing

ina: for guckerg".

He stated thrt aboit six months ago, the stuation

87-15374-44

• DocId: 32327497 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

7

7

D: 87-1534

any aproed to pay SuBson 415,000,00 V%

most in tha

Easiness,

aud is prosently amployed as a usad car salesmin jor tre icantom suici

Connant, Denver, Colorado.

bir.

during the Fall

intr of 1950, frequently assoclated with ROPERT BRO.M GIBSON

ad occasionally was -t thu offices of the agnur kickino and läll

Supil: Gapany in Denver but was never at uny time employed by thit fira

PERETH, waS

durir; the lattor part of January, 1951, apparently was participting

with iUNG and C.KBY in dicu games held in KING's suito at the Cosmopolitan

Hoic? in Denver.

NiR statod bi 19 not acquainted with BUGENE

EP-DI'S, With allas J. LES BRiDLEY LSE.

He stated that after the Denver Stock Show, which ended

during the lattor part of January, 1952, KING and C.PHY, With CuRBI's

"ifs,

SOLDIE, rent dom to Phoonis,

-rizona, and 1t was his understand-

sit PErEtri also went to phoerit at about the same time.

He stated

at i indorstands that perEll stayed it the costrard Ho Hotel and

that

12:5 and the CiRaYS stayed # the idans Hotol in Phoenix.

He

strico that sometino in the Spring of 1951, possibly during the month

wril, KING and the C.REYS roturned to Denver but he has net secr

VICTS: POPElRi. since the latter went to Phoonix during the lattar pert

is inurmy or the first part of February, 1951. Ver.

IGNER stated

wit te has had no connurdention of any lind iron PElEtiL, since tho

latter loft Demier and specifically stated that he hag received no

chone calls, tolegrens, or letters from PErElli. He related that di

füst tuard i the swindle of las. eSPARUlE 1, MyCE in Thich PERsIi

ras ailerdly involved, in airit lay, 1951, when he receivod a telephone

c-11 =re en uttorney in El Paso, Texas, inquiring as to whether PERRIR

was in bed been an employce of the rignor lachine and Will Supply Company.

He susted that or that

i ccasion, he understood fron this ittorney, that

JOYCE out of a largo sum of money and ha

sing the address of agner lacrine and kill Supply Company, 1444

He stated that he knows nothing

He recalled

Ir.- phasex, that GiRlY told hin that he had had a falling out with

PerEad aid that the latter had "jrined nother mob" in Phoenda. lis.

said: stated ki had no rere specific details concerning this incidunt.

87-15374-44

L

DocId: 32327497 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

7

Г

7

iJ. :.GVER Informed that he is willing to cooporate fully with

tinis office in connection with this matter and voluntarily furnishod

a scriplo of his hendpristing in the event it night be of use in connection

with tids investigation la stated that in his opinion D. li. GREY 18

the closest associate of PEREIR. In DenvEr, Colorado, and undoubtadty

could urish inforantion concerning this case.

IDY LRION CiREY voluntarily appeared at the Denver Office

on tize evening of Septenber 26, 1951, ind was intervierad by Special

agalt GUCHGE F. GILLEll and the reporting agent.

He stated that he is

-150 Knon as DiDE Li. CiTY and "JUNE" CREY, and resides with hi:

11IC, "COLDIE" at 747 Newport Street, jenver,

colorado, telephune

number Farida 0083, He stated that he mas born September 4, 1898,

at Mbard, ülssours, and for a number if years operated a number of

drug stores in kansas City, lissours, vith his father, D. i.. C.Hor,

Stro

He stated that in 1929 his Irthur mas connected Tith an arson

ring in Kangas City, jissours, that on of his drug stores was destroyed

by iro during the courso if which three kansas City firemen tere

illico ta related that is - result of this incident both he and his

f. tico sere charged with murder and arson in Kansas City, 11980ur1,

ut before the murder cane to trizl, his father committed sulcide ind

the charges against hin, DiDY ::. CiñaY, vere subsequently droppedo

he stated thit in 1915 he was arrested at the Biltmore Hotal,

tlanta, jeorgia, for ganbling and fined 25.00, and that he was arrested

several times on gambling charges in Kansas City, liasourl, but thit be

has rever been convicted of a felony.

Crat inforned thet he is a gaubler and has no other business

connecti...g.

Se stated specifically that he is la dice man" and that

he has operated with P..Ji LUGUSTUS KING, commonly known as GUS :TIG,

for a rumber of years in denver, Solorado, Kansas City, Hissours;

Phonix, -Jizons; and in varlous reaort areas around the country. He

staied that in 1947 he invested several tbousand dollarg in the agner

inchine and lill Supply Company, Denver, Colorado, in cornection tith

an air canpressor that as being developed by CURTIS ROBERT :.GN I.,

President of the company, but thit be has never been an official si that

company or actively engaged in the business. He stited that he has

oadded in Denver wit' his rife.

"GOLDIE", since 1948 and prior to that

ise for sevral years eperated the Highway Tavern, 3047 Van Brut …verwe,

Kansas City, lissarl.

+87-15374-44

_

DocId: 32327497 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

11-14-2017

C

7

5606

Г

7

DN 87-1634

He recalled that in approon-taly

1932 at Mathy, Kansas, she sarrlod one FuilK HiRI, who was formerly a

been a "Chicago bootlegger".

le stated they were

1935.

Be stated that thereafter .D. sarried j. BOZSKiN, a profesaional

j1ll1ird player sho reaided at Vallejo,

California. This merriage andod

In divorce and tbereafter, according to GREY, iDi, sarriod VICTA

PEREIR. (1n about 1944).

He stated that at that time she orned a part

interest in the Senator Hotel, reno, Nevada, and still rotains an interest

in that establistment.

CREY stated that it is his understanding that

sometime during the 19201g iD: was marriod to ERL BEER, a Kansas

City, iissourt, boctlogger, tho, according to CiREY, now operates

"Evergreen By the Lake", a restaurant ind tavern locitod at Evergreen,

Colorado.

WiXY stated that he first not VICTOR BliNul pereIR. then the

"check artist". He stated that he nover heard of PERETRi. being conviotod

or arrested on

bad check charges.

CiRET recallod thet in 1945 be and his tife veno, to leno,

Nevidi, here they visited with VICIoi and iDi. FarsIR at mich time

„Di. PEPSIR, attempted to induce CiSY to invest some money in the

Senator Hotel.

He stated that he declinad to do 4h19.

GrEY stated that sometine in 1946, to the best of his recollec-

tion, -Di divorced PEREIRi, probably in Reno, Nevada, and thereafte

she was nartled for a short time to a dentist, those nano liPal stetod,

he could not recall. He stated that PEEIR subsequently serried

Colorado, with some girl fran Reno, Nevada end checked in at the Cosmopolitan

lotel. He stated PErEIR, was broke at the time and borromed $200.0

ron him and thereafter remained in Denver for several montha associat

ing 11th GERRY: ILaN and ERNIE 3.: OODID, both ganblers mbo had former-

DocId: 32327497

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Г

5686

7

ĐN 37-1634

tive resided at the St. Francis Hotel with iDio He statod that to

a son ador had test haterant

Ra stated that although VIcTOR progR. frecuently

•0t:bon

in the heart, ma place mas eccally aroud ug

I. and VICTOR PEREIR. had no interest in it.

CiRET related that during the Fall of 1950, while PaRKIR:

Tas in lener he frequently associated With ROBaRI EROT N GIBSON, thO

then had a financial interest in the igner diachion and hilll Supply

Corpany, 44,44 York Street, Lenver, Colorado, CREY described GIBSON

as a close friend of his and stated that he has never board of (IB9ON

being involved in any illegal activities, although he stated, that

SIESCi, occasionally participates t1th hin in gambling activities in

Derivar.

CREt stated that during the Stock Show held in Denver during

January, 1951, PPREIRi vas occasionally in the hotel suite of CUS KDIO

at the Cosmopolitan Hotel and also present at the hotel during this

period Was "DOCT SOLA.MY and JiJIES BRIDLEY LEE. CREY described SCLQ iI

and lift as gamblers and con-ten and explained that LEB's usual sethod

of operation is to get acquainted with a realthy tomas, propose sarriage

and then defraud her of all the noney that he could get out of her.

Cipal related that during the first part of February, 1951, be

and his wife and GUS KING drove down to Phoerds, irisons, and rogistered

at the idaas Hotel. He stated that SOLAWY and IMB vero at the botel

at that time.

Shortly thereafter, he receivad a phone call fron VICTOR

PEPSIi In Denver, Colorado, stating that he and Lli taro gotag to

ñeno, Nevada, vla

Phoentr and sorpected to spend a few daya in Phoendr.

He stated shortly thereafter,

VICTOR and iDi PEREIIi an iTai 1a Phoenix

and stayed at the hose ci JOE ILlI'lSON, Mion KINO described as a

-*slot sachine operator" in Phonis, irizona.

Dis was away, then proceeded to entertain various women in Phoenix.

te stated that when its, iTLlIJSON and idi PEREIki rotarned to Pboants

і-

100

8

87-15374-44

L

DocId: 32327497

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

DN. 97-1634

GiRal stated that on about pril 1, 1951, be and KING meat

in left:

we attir pope time first wak i

lie stated that he has not seen either of then nor has be bad

CFSY claing that after leaving El Contro, be returned to

Phoenix where be renained until the 14th of ipril at

the idans Hotel

ind then returned to ienver, Colorado. He stated that ha had heard,

thrigh CUEIIS i: Gita, that

Lat and PeREli. were at the lesterard ix

Hotel in Phoenix on pril 16, 1951, inascruch as a bill fron that hotel

hed veen sailed to PalEIl. In care of the "agner lachine and lill

Supply Company, 4444 Jork Street, Denver, Colorado.

He statod that in about ime, 1951, be heard from MORRIS STUDdi,

ar. automobile dealer in lansas City,

lissourl, with whon he has been

acciainted for a number of years, that STUDN, sold a Cadillao automobile

he san press reports concerning the arrest of ParBIRi and lat

in the enver nerispipers in .ugust, 1951:

He stated that during the latter part of pril, 1951, while

he vas in Lenver, Colorado, MOORI ERG.lI GIBSON exhibitod to him a

letter ¿ron VICTOR PEREIRi. which CiPEY states to the best of his recolloc-

tion either bore a Roswell, den leadco, or an ll Pago,

Texas, post-

sark or reflected a return address in one of those cities.

that at the time dIusC.' showed hin this letter, they were both in an

to recall the spacific location where they were at the time or where they

He recalled that the letter was addressed to GIBSOl! an

stated that fall had an opportunity to marry a wealthy wenan and

requested GIESCi to send hin a telegran which was enclosed in the letter.

He clined to specifically recall that the letter cautioned GIBSCI

not to sention anythine about the matter to the CiREYS or anyone else.

Cott stated that he does not recall that there was anything in the

etter concerning the details of the transaction nor does he recall tha

he letter reflected, in any way, that GIBSON had previous knowledg

of the schere or that GIDiN mas to receive any partion of the proceeds.

87-15374-44

DocId: 32327497 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

DN 97-1634

Concerning the telogran enclosed with the lotter, CilEX specdfically

recalled that it was to be sent to VICTOR E. PERETRi, at altber Rostrall

• receie & propert

attlerant traina a israe said

sailed toat he does

are the cust old he do a to here or not he socia send

this mire to ParkIri, and contends that be told GIBSCN to use hia oun

judgment and did not advies his one way of the other, as to mother

he shruld send the vire.

CirDy stated that he is willing to testify to the abovo

information concerning his k'onledge of the telegran and that he rould

CiRBY stated thit he did not dostre to fumish a signed stato

ment concening the above, but orally acknomledged in the presence of

Special gent GEORGE ?. GILLal! and the writer that the information'nas

true and that he mould testify to the sane 11 called upon to do so.

:1th riference to "DCUG" mentioned in the a Pago roport of

ugust 15, 1951, in corsection with this natter WRBY infarpod that the

only person whose first name is DIÜG or DOUGLiS that he has over heard

rentioned by PEREIR: 1S DUGL'S DE BiSSE ON DE BUSSIl, an ittarnegat

lar, vith offices in Reno, Nevada.

ile stated that he has heard ProBIRt

sention tils individual on nary occasing and that the latter has stated

that "DOUG" IS a close frland of his and his brother, choRce perelr..

Hi tated that he eleven that pa, has stated that Dove, on one or

trio occasions, has acenanted lim

Roference is nace to San Diego teletype to El Paso dared

September 26, 1951, setting out list of telephone calls charged to

JiDES

RUDLEY LEE at Casa De lanana Hotel,

La Jolla, California, Including

one call on sugust 15, 1950,

' "RENG" OT "RING" to Denver, Colorado,

phone nunber Florida 0083.

It is noted that this phone 1s listed to

¡DY Lo CiREY, 747 Newport Street, Denver, Colorado.

CiREY stated that

luring the yeas, 1951, he rocally no phase calls iron la Jolla, California

e stated, however, during iugust, 1950, ILHES BRiDLEY LOt, DOC SOLOid

ad GUS KING were in la Jolla, California, sperting in dice and car

games and during th t period, exaet dates not recalled, he received

1987-15374-44

DocId: 32327497 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

7

26: 87-1654

at least one telephone call at his hone telephone in Daner from GUS

Iû to mes calling arol: la Jolla, Calliordo, place unionom.

wwwwwatated.cost.ha.doga. pot

Terrin

r021ee

en the evening of Septenber 26, 1051, a which ho nas irenone of

speciai gent GORE F. GILLE

and the reporting agent.

He statod that

he resides at 825 Newport Street,

lenver, Colorado,

and 1s presently

employed as a used car salesman. for Dontow Dulck Company at the used

Colorado.

He stated that he bas

becare acouainted with CURTIS ROBERT ::: GHER of the

agner liachine and

111 Supply Coupany, 1444 York Streat, Denver, Colorado, during the

latt:= part of 1949.

He stated that in about jerch, 1950, be bought contralling

interest in the uter li chine and lili Supply Company and sold out his

interest in the fira to CURTIS R. HAGNER on December 28, 1950.

thri in the Fall of 1950, he was introduced to VICTOR Elijuil pERati.

i D.:. CiRtY and sonetize previcisly had net idi PEREIRi. who 15 e long

tine friend of the citis.

GISON stated that D. 1:. City and GUS KIlG had, for a number

si inirs, beer. cic-e frienda and partners in privato dice and card

gazes in Denver and in various resort areag around the country and that

he has ieen acquainted tith XIiG for approdmately tno yours as a result

os is associacion nita GuRgi. Le stated that during the Stock Sho::

seaso: in Januiry,

1951, in Denver, Colorado, he becare acquainted: 1th

DOC SO... ENd U:IS EP DLEY ISE while ther were stayini at the Cosmopolitan

iotel in Denver.

Fe stated that as he rocalla, he was introduced to

-11-

88-15374-4418

DocId: 32327497

Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy.

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: I1-14-2017

7

Г

DE: 87-1634

GIESCH specifiezlly dealed that he had ever discussed dth

**ETa the Latter's plans to defraud ls. JCYC3 and claies tist se

Lad so incaledge that lis ard Pzatin rero operatinz such a stidie.

ie aditted, borever, that socerie 1r. ipril, 1951, he receired a

lonz distance telephone call irce FI-bli at mich tiro the latter

alscussed with his the sale of certain fishing reels on thich faari

lained to hire a ostent

Ee sited that de mas in lerver at die doe

a receited this call bat does not loon mhere PaPEri mas located a

-

103.

Es stated that drine the latter jirt of ipril, 1951, eve

a'e nrecalled, ba receited a mecial delivery letter fros mus

PEaRi mich tzs accressed to ria at bis basa in Derver, Calcario.

Ee etited that he does not recall the retura ederess on this letter

=or the postark nor does ta recall that the letter sentioned Encing

abrat PEaT: baring piers to saris a realtig norea. la stared trat

be sec:lls trat there nas a telegras enclosed in the letter sid-essed

to PEatin 1n care of soreche else but he cisias not to recall tro

=o ci this person nor tre addrass shom ca the telesa.. '

sat to the best of lis recollection, it was addressed Tacies so Possix,

Le clal-s that he does rot recall art telezras addreszod to

Fe stated that the letter recrosted his to send

Lie telegras ard that tiere reso three or four cas dollar bills enclosed

to =a the charges.

GIBSON stated specifically that the telogiar sentioned aboro

Tas either Aritten or hundorinted in pencil, that it was addressed to

1IG.Ca E. Prestin and that 1t speclically bentlired that FEati

Fid recalved a divorce in Denver and as a part of tine divorco settlo-

sent ras to receive a large aruuat of sonej. GIESai clatred not to

recald the exict asourt of soney sentioned and clal-od to socall no

other specific details conceming tho sessaro.

He stated that be does

rocall that the nessage tag signed, "CURTIS".

GIBSOl stated thit on the soraing that be rocoired ills lotter

at his residence, he read it and also read the toleras and ¿bereafter

on tha sane day,

ahilo ho mas driving in an autcoobile Mila d. ¿a CiRza,

Do shomod the letter and the cologar to CiRat, thet CiroT read tie

lotter and telegran, and handed ther back to his, eating no coccent

ay to whether or not GIES'i should send the bessazo as roquested by

POPETI. OTBSCY stated ho rocall that CilEy tald hia to

"just forget

you sioved the lotter to se". Hs statod that astor exhibitine tico lotzor

to coler he tore the letter up and thren it out of the autosobllo

and placod the telegras in 119 pockot.

IRSON statod that on that sane day or the follonina car

sE about 11 idl' he drovo to the

eLigIn Union Orsion at 17th and Chaop

87-15374-41 572

DocId:32327497 Page 14

---

## Page 15

Released-under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

7

D:: 87-763÷

treets 17 Deriver, and men be could not flod a parlane place, he hande

tica

tres ana dollar bills to a san nho vas lessin

against a jaridig seter directly in front of the jestera thion corice

al respasted his to sead the essago.

Is clai-s that be does not

khan taig z2a19 a3n8 and has teter seen hi= since thât tise sod does

not ban tatter or not the tag actually sest the sessage, altbough

be asses tbat be dia so.

arests declined to fraish any sore specific infersation,

stut1a5 tet the above accouit of the incident 1s all that be can

resetter and decidied to furisa a signed siatesent.

In'oration ecrcerinz this telegras as furnisbed by CiPEr

md CraSti tas sibdited to ise 1l Paso Criica by teletype dated

sesteter 27,

1551.

sy teletype dated Septeeber 29, 1951, the El Faso CIlica stated

tha: tie Jited States tortay tbere does not conte alato prosecutive

seton against jIstli valess tice latter proves refrectory la testig

1ag 19 "1s casto

to ottain a detalled sized staterent fror his and thai ba be specifically

cuestistad as to itera to letter fros PERElri nas satled asd exact dato

of receiit of sara ty tia. It tas further rocuested that GIaSO!i be ra

interrised corcerinz alleged dostruction of the letter and to atterpt

to desertire thether la possibly still has the letter 1a bis possession.

I'1s teletjpa also requested that the nase of indiscoals corjetent

to testin t'at is ditonce action ras perdin? in dever for paralle.

in i,til, IsE, be furrished to El Paso.

-

by si corceralaz the tolegras and rolterstod his praticas contention

that "bo let'er fros PEElu, recuesting that ho send le telegras had

beer. destroyed. He cortended that ho could rot recall the exact dato.

he receired the letter fros PElli, nor could ho rocall sroo rat

oist FE sIr. hed salied the latter.

Ho stated that ho bad no recollec-

Jon of the portrark or retura address, Ho statad that be did nol

desire to fira a signod statecent but ras silling to testify in this

case and 15 he did testily, his testimony mould be the saso as he had

finalshad orally to igents on September 26, 1951.

-13-

88-15374-44

L

DocId: 32327497 Page 15

---

## Page 16

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

Г

Г

55:57-1534

D.!'. CiRET mas recontactad and questiored cancemi-s his

bootledia as to what disposition GIBSci had sade of tha latter santioned

abOre ITO FZEBRiA CiPSY stated that to does rot recall 8001-6

GIsE: destroy the letter and that he has no lachledge as to stat

d15=051*10r. mas Iade of it.

Ea specielcally recalled, borever, that

bro of three dary after DIstri had shored the letter and telegra to his,

ba asind SlESdi whether of not he had seat the telegran and GIESti

told t'= thit he had sent it.

CriEtnal sotes of intertlens tita GIESCH and CiPET 2r0 being

retaired in the Denver 11l0.

25. E. Bo Trousci, zanager, Testem Indon Headquarters effice,

P227: 7 Brenarge Building,

17th and Grassa Streets, Denver, Calerado,

Inserted that 1t.19 agadrist the policy se the company and ecatrary to

Io regilaticas to release any Infortion concering sessages seat

Ira ay iaster trion office.

Ze further stated thet in the event

a subocera sere issued for original records cencerring any sucà Dessage,

he tould ba tha proper person to receira the subpoena.

i5. d. 3. CODi di, Jeo, Clerk, Ilstrict Court, City and Courty

of jenTes, City and County Zuilding,

Denier, Colorado, 1nf0rsed Ent, a ma

carisataca as the records of his office failed to redect tart ricica

Sual Peratin at any tise during 1951 had perding in the ilstrict

Court a divorca action. IT. GODHN stated that he 1s the proper

persea to be subpocreed to testify to this fact.

XI. PLLI POPCHIO, Clerk's Office, County Court, CIty EnO

Ca att. ol lenter, Inforsed that i rerera ination of the records of that

offico failed to reflect thia VICTOR EiduiL PErsIri taa a firty to sno

divorce actisa in that court during the Jeer 1951.

AT. POITCAZO

stated that dt. i Iulili B. bIllah, Clerk, County Court,

City end County

Is vester, 1s the proper person to be subpoenaod to testify to tali

15. and iss, LEGiR. H. PIPJi, amers and sanagers of tha Deven

July 2u, 1950, and stayed there four days until July 29, 195û.

They®

adrised that subjoct BruDriO gave his bose address as Dallas, lecas

kirs. PIPER adulsed th.i sut ject had been Introduced to her by

DiTs. VIGLI. Mil AGPliJi as a ITIend cl her's mho was a big c1l sin

1n Tezz8, They stated thit birs. Vi iCHüit, with her, parents, lit.

-I4

87-1507:41

L

DooId:32327497 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Г

Dil 87-1534

and 159. "Shot fros Tuise, Illabesa, Jad does suesto at the lodge ser

seTural Jeary and that las, Tà: liCruiti had registered thero or salo 18,

1950, 8od stayed until «gust 9, 1950.

tire is errived at the

phone calls ITOI hla, bois stad iallas,

Calismiss

She also stired that irsa

0: the 25t1 to seet the sinject, Mto PEs 1ãia5 ia fron los bagelos,

and hid srought his bac's in the lodgo.

1F3. PIPE. stated that sundect had a tero rico epsedrance, but

hed teen very tagie in tis tal!: as

to bis bariness and also is to there

he "ire:.

She furtier stated that ins, üni wini did not seen tr iton

teo such ziout subject,

ta she fathered tbe inpression that see liced

his very such and that she mi su:feet interded to ba narried.

Both 15. and lIE. PIED. adrised ties they did not icon of aro

long distance calls eithri zado or receired ta sijact taile be rag

at the 3-ren Haven Lodge, for do they reseaber any if histlida cooing

to sea ta there..

They adrised that they bid sever beard a TICIOR titiütung

al Paso report diled infust 15, 1957, sets out a lead to conduct

aproptista imestizatica at tie Cosopolitin ECrel, Colorado, ser1n53,

Colorado, and at the Serator iotal, Derrer, Calerado.

It is noted tba: there is no Cosopolitan Botel in Colorado

Springs and it 1s notod east imestigation in this natter has alrezay

been conducted and reported concerning activities of subjaci at the

Cossatalitan Hotol, Derires, Colorado.

There 19 no SeDator Fotel in Demier, Colorado, ard 1t 15

pointed cut that previcus incrantion, developod la this caso, re

Nects that iDi PE-ElRi 1s reported to have za interest la too Serator

Hotel, zero, levade,

T. FT EZiTA, ¡ZARgOT, COTOpOlIESO FoLel, Denver, Colorado,

Irioriod that in ipril, 1951, bo, vith his partres, lin. Jrio, purchaso

he St. Francis Hotol, 411 14th Street, Lenrer, Calorado.

He stated

that at that tine, tho property tas amed by lisa. ilk PDElh bui

-16

83-15014

DocId: 32327497 Page 17

---

## Page 18

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

I0l 37-1554

tit to had is direct dealings tith ies in connection with this transce-

sion and the deal mas handled through sotels, Inco, of which it. Puss E.

WiS is danager Ia Derrar, Colorado:

1'. liliTastated that he is not

Deracially accualated mità TIJOR EiTI FEDIRL OF JiNES ERiDLOS

LuS 27d irony nothing conceming their activities.

• ¿JA BOSS Do EviLiS, innegar, Betals, Inc., 312 Colorado Buildina,

DenTer, Colorado, infored that in.

Deceites, 1950, liTs. its FEElE

"as referred to hia by LIs. D. La CiTY of Deaver, Colcrado, TIth Ti=

jerrit been tezuelated in linett, lissourt, Iny years 250.

Ea stated inat ls. FEII. Nas interested in purchasing the St. irasois

Ectel, 111 lich Street a statad that te negatiated the sale of trio

IEnvEr, colorido, thich establisitant consisted

at sITty siest tocus.

establistent and the deal mas closed ca Jeceber 21, 1950, when

title Ias transferred to IS ili PELE-, ICT a purchasa fIlice of

125,000.00. Fa statod that she fald: 21, 000.00 in cash and the balanca

of: 15,000,co ras ta be fald over a trenty-íour sonta pericã.

Ee"

stated that during the negotiationg for the furchase of tals hotel,

be zet Maic i. FIsti, that he assured to be the husbard of iDi Fo:sI.

Ee stated that he ras tery fatorably ispressed by itorca farairi and

neve- had any resson to dutt tisprseralstegrity.

Fe stated that

ates: 13. FISTi. bad taken possessica =l tha hotel VICToR PIratri.

resided there for a peried of approdiately tuo or three cunths duriag

Thiciteriod ho persenally redecurated a ruber of guest roans in the

hotel. Ea stated that thereafter mort. po-Elr. as apparently out

of tera freguently, although he could famish no informatica as to

F=30u's activities during that period.

:5. BURTiS statod that on i prll 25, 1951, the St. Francis

20el Las scid by :55. FERaTi tO biliTA and Sidias, Denver, Colorado,

that ise handled the regotiations for this sale and it 13 his under

stasino that shortly after disposirg of the hotel, lie. FeEli

neTt to jansas CIty, Isscuri.

Is stated that he has had no contact

=th her since thet the.

15.

ELRilS seated that so far es he laionis,

the purchase price of this hotel nas cald by idi, pañell. and he has

no lastledge of any financial interest in the establishuent boin? held

at ay t1os by VICIO. Pirate...

On Cotober 1, 1951, ROBERT 5I:0 i GIBSON toluntarily subaltted

Inforration that he had at his hese to suitcases onsed by VICTO. =.

PEET. Thieh had been left tere in ifT11, 1951, by irs. iDi PEEIP:.

prior to the tice she lelt ienter.

ie statod that he did not know the

contents of theso siltcasos but surgestod that agents aleht destro to

socamino thera

i-

L.Vi

-16

87-15374-41

53

L

DocId: 32327497 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Г

DiT 87-1634

rocordingly,

special igent KENNETH H. RIPICH and the ropos

agent accompanded GIBSON to his home where he exhibited thare suit-

cases and the entents tberdol. It was noted that both sulterson cor

1190nll?00018. 1toas of men's clothing, a maber of fandly phat

-ners suitenorn contained a kerchant sensing Cruiserts

oi identification issued on july 30, 1915, by the landed diason coach

119 (local botond

This card

Both of the above mentioned suitcares,

, with theft contento,

mere left in the enotody of ROBERT BROiN GIBSON.

/Confidential Intorment I-1, niho has provoualy furnisbed

Information concerning this case, was rocontacted concerning the identity

of "DOUD" mentionad in 5l Paso report of iugust 15, 1851. This

infarmant stated thit he kong of no associeto of PERETRA or LE tho

has the first or last name of DOUd of DOUlInS and could furnish no

information as to the identity of this individual.

The fallowing description of ROBERT BRO.N IBSCN was obtained

tirrugh observation and Interrogations

Name

ROBERT BROTH CIBSON

Residence hadrass

825 Hemport, 'Dernes, Colorado

Birtbdste

day 19, 1918,

Airthplace

salt. 11330051

ed ght

513"

340 1b9.

Black-wavy-parted on left side

Build

Relatives

Dark

Heavy

Pather-JERULD LLOID GIBSON,

salty, Calorade

Jaba 61t7, Calliaria

1-

1

-17-

88-15374-44

L

DocId: 32327497

Page 19

---

## Page 20

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

DH 37-1634

Provious Deployment

Miltary Servico

Griainal Rocora

TIA CATHERINE HUAT OLESO

825 непратв

asteron

Devose Caloredo

Used car +s1e222i

1225 Bast Collar

Denver, Colorado

911-Labores, Soll Conservation Serve

• So Departient of Lerterltor

Part Morgan, Calorado

1947

and 1912 Attendad Horehes Colleg

of karturry Soderoo

Chicago, Ill1n010.

1/12 to 3/42-61vs1 Sorvice esplayes,

Denver, Calorado

4/46 to 12/46-1055287 COllage 08

Hortuary Solence

Fort korgon, Calorado

1/47 to 9/48 Apprentico Punaral

Director, Bandricles Poseral

Home, Burlington, Calorado.

10/49

to 12/49-Lab0r85, l S. Daressa

of Roclanation, Port Morgan,

Colarado

12/48 to 11/48-107/102, Alterdalo

Road, Malty, Calorado

1/50 to 12/50 Part amas, =87pe

achtne and llll Sappit Copem

4111 lork Stroet, Derm:,

Colorada

151 to 8/51-Partoer, Hydro-pon

joctor Coupany, Derve

Colorado.

Intered U. S. Naty 1986s honorably

diacharged 1940 aa Boctelodent,

Mato, 35d (2388, 157 571-99-78.

Ro-enliotod U. S. Mary. 8/12;

ASH 377-99-781 bonarably discharged

3/6/16 20 Ariation Carat Foottlatoo's

Mato.

None known

ESTEREOD UPON COMPLETION TO THE CAPICE OR ORIGIN

-18

87-15374-44

L

DocId: 32327497 Page 20

---

## Page 21

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

Г

5587-1954

ID'DISTRiTITE FiE

"erale cinces are beira, furnished ecpiee ot this re ert for intor

t1an parpuses for tbe reason thit they bare recaired praticüs reports in this

le te crea or orsia e dadro distoral vestita dy tesso

reported td... Cra. ci

jenter, Colorado, te

e a friend of micis.

It is scted that diat stated trat iliainair 1s a malot

==chire sperator" in Faserix and that la Pastina visited

•

te idilas0i5 in the Eering es 1951.

e coestaied lor ar dienailca ha cataris" caicer.in

=itus activities in ecorcotion aita the prezent case.

ittc509-214-1277,

reparted by Da li. C.i5l to te a closa siend

•I TIME INUN FREELA TrIS irditicual lube ba licátical

itt the "DOUG" sentiarad in 2l Paso re-Ort of august 15,

1552°

:111 dote=-ine satura sI ili FIRIPr's interest in joraica

Eotel aid conduct ageraptiate laquitles tiere for ay l-icrea-

I1gat to pertinent to tris case.

2P5919i

in this caso to lsi ica prosecutivo celaion.

Incorsant in report of Special ident Pril S. FiSH dated

Octcter a,

Colorado in caso entitled Bloccol

JOICE -

LIL FID," 1a Identifiod Do 50l10788

87-15374-41

10s

L

DocId: 32327497 Page 21

---

## Page 22

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

Г

DH 87-1634

Confidential Informant-I-1.

•PAUL AUGUSTUS KING, ath al1 y

Information to Spedal Agenta

FRED C. LC CRARY and PATH BO

BUll on Septenber 75, 12570

and requested that his haas

not be d val god an emotion

with this natter.

REFOPENCE &

Report of Special Agent HUGH J. PHARIES dated hagust 15,

1951 at El Paso, Teocas.

Report al Spoedal Agent PAUl B. BUSH dated September. 12,

1951 at Denver, Calorado.

BI Paso teletype to Devar dated September 25, 1951: -

Denver taletype to Bl Paso dated September 26, 1951.

San intondo teletype to Denver dated September 26,: 1952.

Denver teletype to 5l PaSO dated September 27, 1951;

El Paso teletype to Denver dated September 29, 1951.

Denver teletype to El Paso dated October 1, 1951.

87-15374 - 44 aM

Doctit:32327197 Page 22

220 is

---

