# docid-32339843

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Höte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

• Date:

4/30/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: • FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90152-10062

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 105-152711-41

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/29/1976

2

ANTONIO VECIANA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

• CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

DocId: 32339843

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John,F. Kenne

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 141 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Date:

11/29/76

(SECRET

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintert or code)

AIRTEL

ATT: FORMATION CONTAINED

MICSIFIED

Via

(Precedence)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

-Declassify on:- @ADR/J-

DIRECTORI,

FBI.

5)

SAC, MIAMI (65 -NEN)

(P)

FELIX SABALAS, akagell

"Tutu"

ESPIONAGE - CUBA

(00: MIAMI)

C029/229

-SECRET

JENC. (1213)

DE4L

Erusal es laultan

# (11 18/16/64

- Walt

stor

Enclosed for the Bureau,

Newark,

New York and San Juan

is one copy each of a memo dated 11/11/76,

to T. LYONS,

supervisor,

Tactical Investigative Section, frOM I, JANUSHI,

Sergeant,

Terrorist and Security Unit,

prepared by R. DIAZ, Terrorist

and Security Unit, Organized Crime Bureau (OCB),

Dade County

Public Safety Department (DCPSD), Miami, Fla.

•enclosed

for the Bureau and each designated

office is

an OCB copy of

an investigative report dated 4/30/74, in which

to kill

7/98

FIDEL CASTRO in 1972 in Chile is mentioned. CLASSIFIED BY: 5668-54

REASON: 1.5 (CA)V

ADMINISTRATIVE

DECLASSIFY ON: X WYC

Miami notes on Page 3 of the 11/11/76,

that the CA

"Cuban agents" told(SABALAST that CASTRO would

attempt to go to (S)

Jamaica in 12/76.

Miami

Leo notes

bat the "Cuban agents"

wanted

, to know who

LEGO" is.

1-d

I GALLEGO" ¿s probabl(51)

Bureau

(Enc. 2)

(RM)

Newark

(Enc. 2)

(RM)

New York

(Enc. 2) (RM)

6=

San. Juan

(Enc.

2)

(RM)

Statin

RICES

PRIATE

= 65-3341

2m 4;71 )

137-7166)

DE 41.

1OSH

aafinate

REG25

152711105-11

22 DEC 2 1976-

APPRO

AND FISED

ADVISIO

SZTP (S/ 03 2/le/

nATE.

(1

SG:

.5gm

1(13)

Classed by

SPORTAlGA

Declassify on: BADR

1436/84

#AHA

Approved:

54 MAR 2/2.1979

30%

219/78156

copies made

Tor review at FBIHQ by

4SCA Coufile Ca: 1172

Agent in Charge deress a fee

HSCXr84aD12%6.5

Itealtre Vecieo

sian

Per

*SECRET

CPO: 1975 @ - 590-995

DocId: 32339843

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released urier

thre

DATE: 11-14-2017

Tation Recoris

Collection Act of

1992.7

(77.05C 2107 Hotel.

MM

65-NEW

"SECRET

SALVADORE

_ A. ALDEREGUIA

a suspected cuoan Da controlled

Cuban exile

in Miami and Panama.s)

REYNOL RODRIGUEZ-GONZALEZ is a well-known FLNC

member in Puerto Rico; "OROZQUITO" (diminutive for the

name OROZCO) is probably RAMON OROZCO-CRESPO, a well-known

anti-CASTRO terrorist in Miami; FRANK CASTRO is no doubt the

FINC leader in Santo Domingo.

Miami notes that MAX LESNIK, publisher of the

Miami newspaper and magazine "Replica" (Spanish language

and cuban exile oriented publication) is suspected of

being a CAStRo sympathizer by some Miami Cuban exiles.

LESNIK reportedly is the originator of the slogan "Cuba Si,

Yankee

No' during FIDEL CASTRO's takeover of Cuba in 1959.

Miami observes that SABALAS may have very well been <S-

contacted,

as indicated, by cuban DGI and the Cuban DGImay@ 52

be giving him information ofan opportunity where some anti-

CASTRO terrorists could 50 to Jamaica in an attempt to

assassinate FIDEL

CASTRO.

The Cuban Dis could then easily

capture them. ()

Miami believes that RAUl dIAz' source is probably

either MARIONCABRERA or RAPABI XCOVIRERAS."

LEADS

SAN JUAN, NEWARK AND NEW YORK

Check indices and advise Miami of any information

deemed useful to Miami re this matter as well as any observations.

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

1. Will continue with OCB Detective RAUL DIAZ.

2.

Will make no attempt to contact DIAZ' informant

at this point.

2.

SECRETL

DocId: 32339843 Page 3

---

