# docid-32290275

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10205-10051

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-293

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

08/19/1961

1

GAL, ASSOC, BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW.:

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290275

Page 1

286

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 1-14-2017

4-41 (Rev. 6-2-61)

DECODED

COPY

Radio

*x Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad®

DeLoach .

Evans _

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

DEFERRED

8-19-69

3:49 AM

TJF

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM

SACO CHICAGO

190107

GUS

ALEX, AKA, AR, DAILY SUMMARY, CG 6443-0 ADVISED THAT LOUIS

TORNABENE, ASSOCIATE OF ALEX, WHO OPERATES THE SANTA FE HOTEL,

CHICAGO AND WHO OWNED THE BRASS RAIL RESTAURANT, CHICAGO, HAS

NOT YET OBTAINED AN INSURANCE SETTLEMENT IN CONNECTION WITH THE

FIRE AT THE BRASS RAIL. INFORMANT PREVIOUSLY INDICATED THAT

BRASS RAIL WAS BURNED DOWN ON INSTRUCTIONS OF LOUIS TORNABENE

TO OBTAIN INSURANCE MONEY.

INFORMANT RECENTLY TALKED TO ANTHONY

TORNABENE, BROTHER OF LOUIS TORNABENE, ALSO AN ASSOCIATE OF

ALEX. ANTHONY TORNABENE IS OPERATOR OF EDDIE FOY'S CLUB, A

STRIP JOINT ON CHICAGO'S NEAR SOUTH SIDE. TORNABENE TOLD

INFORMANT THAT THE ONLY CHICAGO POLICEMEN MAKING ANY MONEY NOW

ARE INTELLIGENCE UNIT DETECTIVES WHO HAVE TO BE PAID BIMONTHLY

BY TORNABENE SO THAT HIS OPERATIONS AT EDDIE FOYS CLUB WILL

HAVE NO INTERFERENCE FROM POLICE. TORNABENE TOLD INFORMANT

THAT BUSINESS WAS EXCELLENT AT EDDIE FOY'S CLUB. ALEX ARMED

AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

RECEIVED:

4:56 AM TELETYPE

4:56 AM CODING UNIT

RN

REC-43

12-3182-293

AUG 21 1967

-t....

EX: ≥ 102

58 AUG 24196F0

large alligence do pree in the ure message top essentinated outside the Bureau,

it is suggested that it be suitably

DocId: 32290275

Page 2

---

