# docid-32317673

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14-USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PR Assassination Syster

dentification Forr

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10354-10001

RECORD SERIES: CG

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-349-3091

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/13/1963

1

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

MULTI SUBJECT: SGI, LST, JRO, CM

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

09/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Doc Id: 32317673

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act'of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DA556 (HeN. 42-13967

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPE

CODE

F B.I

Date: 12/13/63

(Type in plain text or code)

DEFERRED

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI.

SAC, CHICAGO

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA, AR.

CG SIX FOUR EIGHT SIX DASH O ASTERISK ADVISED THAT

AN INDIVIDUAL, NAMED GUS, BELIEVED IDENTICAL, TO GUS KRINGAS,

SMALL TIME GAMBLER AND BARTENDER AT GUS! STEAK HOUSE, FORMER

LOCATION OF LARGE SCALE GAMBLING OPERATION, APPEARED AT AR-

MORY LOUNGE TO MEET WITH GIANCANA ABOUT KRINGAS'S BRODHER.

REASON FOR MEET NOT KNOWN, HOWEVER, IT IS POINTED OUT THAT'

JOHN KRINGAS, BROTHER OF GUS, WAS GIANGANA'S CHOICE TO RUN

FOR ALDERMAN OF TWENTY

WARD DURING CITY ELECTIONS

IN ONE NINE, SIX THREE, BUT BECAUSE OF ADVERSE PURICITY:

DID NOT RUN POSSABILITY EXISTS THAT GIANCANA AGAIN HAS

KRINGAS IN MIND FOR POSSIBLE POLITICAL POST AND ADVISING

KRINGAS OF HIS INTENTIONS.

i2-13-LASt

CG; SIX FIVE THREE THREE DASH C ADVISED THIS EATE

ON LAST THREE DAYS GIANCANA HAS SPENT AT LEAST SIX HOURS

EACH DAY AT ARMORY LOUNGE AND THAT LARGE NUMBERS OF INDIVIDUALS

COMING AND GOING. INFORMA NI SIATES MUSI BE JUST STOPPING TO

MERT WITH GIANCANA AS FEW STAY LONG ENOUGH TO ORDER MEAL.

MEIR /mer

Searched

05-349-3081

(92.349)

10

Sertaltzer

Approved:

Sent

10

/Indered

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32317673 Page 2

---

