# docid-32309334

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10298-10121

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 29-31889-156

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DE

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/08/1963

7

(Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

Consulted; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS:

REFERRED TO DOJ, INC LHM

v9.1

NW 45712 DocId: 32309334

Page 1

48

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date: 11/8/63

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (29-31889)

ACh FROM:

SAC

DETROIT (29-1432) (P)

PIVIAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE, aka

ET AL

FRA; ITSP; MF; FBW;

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

CONSPIRACY

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

(00: DETROIT)

DATE10-11-94/BY. 5P.8 MAC/KS

Remy airtel, 11/7/63.

(FFIC)

Enclosed herewith is a LHM containing information concerning

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE and others.

This information was

obtained by Department Attorney, WILLIAM FRENCH, Detroit, from

] One copy each of the LHM is being

furnished to Chicago and Miami for information inasmuch as

resides in Chicago and BARTONE resides in the Miami

Division.

One copy of the LHM is also being furnished to Department

Attorney WILLIAM FRENCH, Detroit.

(Enc. 1) (Info)

OTHER

4

1 - Detroit

VGW/ pjb

(6)

2 hm/aA 6 Criminal Division Ryo-6D REC-12: 29-3/889-1568

Attention:

Mr. Walter J. Sheridan

Room 2509

I ritain

5

NOV 151963

Approved:

11-19-65 314ked

so destine

3-9-65

87k/pu

Sent

NOV Y 1963

_ M

Per -

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45712 DocId: 32309334 Page 2

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

TED STATES DEPARTMENT C

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Detroit, Michigan

November

8, 1963

JUSTICE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

EREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

ATE/0-11-97 BYSP& MACKSK

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; DOMINICK

EDWARD BARTONE; ET AL

FEDERAL RESERVE ACT; INTERSTATE

TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN

PROPERTY; MAIL FRAUD; FRAUD BY

WIRE; CONSPIRACY

The following information, based upon statements

reportedly made by Dominick Edward Bartone at various times

in the past, was received by the Department of Justice from

a confidential source who has furnished reliable information

in the past:

In regard to money invested by Bartone in Niagara

Crushed Stone (Humberstone) Ltd. (NCS) in 1959, Bartone

advised that he had the money in a French bank

in Panama

and wrote a check for it in Canada, so that the money went

from one foreign country to another without going through

the United States. In regard to money borrowed from Public

Bank for use in connection with the operation of the NCS

quarry, Bartone stated this was bank money and not Union

money•

He also expressed the belief that Public Bank

borrowed money from the Central States Teamsters organization

at a low interest rate and then lent it out to Bartone and

others at a higher rate.

Bartone stated, however, that he

was not certain about a lot of this information, but he had

found out various things and then had "figured from there".

Bartone stated that when he was called before the

Federal Grand Jury at Detroit in September, 1963, he "took

the Fifth" because he did not want to get into trouble with

918-10191

NW 45712

DocId: 32309334

Page 3

---

## Page 4

the "racketeers". Bartone was apprehensive that he might be

asked how he had got to Joseph F. Verhelle, former President

of Public Bank, and why Verhelle had given him the loan.

Bartone did not want to get involved in saying that James

Hoffa told Verhelle to give the loan. Bartone said, however,

that Verhelle was not it" with the "racketeers"."

Referring to

Triscaro_and William

as a twenty-one pet cene interest in eleno quatty oys

Al they actually did not. Bartone said they had probably

ay the react

received favors from James Hoffa but they did not "come up

with the scratch". Bartone stated he, himself, had never

been involved in any "payoffs" with Hoffa. After Bartone

had additional financial problems with NCS, he reportedly

had a discussion with Hoffa during which Bartone became

angry and "exposed his people" in front of Hoffa but Hoffa

did not do anything about it. Hoffa subsequently told

Bartone that it looked like Bartone had a "bad deal" and

not to blame Hoffa but to blame "your people". Hoffa said

they did not know how to count up to a million, let alone

borrow a million, and they did not know how to do business.

Hoffa indicated Bartone should have come directly to Hoffa

rather than going through them, and Bartone said he did not

cut corners and it was through them that he had met Hoffa.

Bartone indicated that in 196l when he was trying

to obtain new financing for NCS and was having a survey made

Meissner Engineers, Inc. (MEI), Verhelle either would not

or else gave Bartone and

MEI incorrect figures. Verhelle finally gave some papers to

MEl after an official of the Continental Bank in Chicago

(with which Verhelle was formerly associated) had been

requested to contact Verhelle concerning the matter.

Following

the MEI survey there was a proposal that Salk, Ward and Salk

provide additional financing but they did not do so because

they

knew Verhelle and he promised he was going to let some-

body else buy it and they would "get a piece", according to

Bartone. Bartone expressed the opinion that Salk, Ward and

- 2 -

Je-1015)

NW 45712 DocId: 32309334

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Salk were "crooks"; that if they lent money they wound up

with a piece of it; and they would try to get forty or

fifty per cent of a deal if they knew the borrower was in

a disadvantageous position.

government agencies to believe that

Bartone said that Alvin A zartone had no

Naiman had ledd

authority to try to get additional financing for NCS,

establish letters of credit, etc.; but Bartone had made

records available to show that he had such authority

through Powers of Attorney and other documents giving

him the right to go out to seek private financing through

Janeway, MEI, Salk, Ward and Salk, or any other

"source Bartone wanted to use.

Bartone said that the present owners of the NCS

quarry are going broke on the operation and want to give

it back to Bartone "on a platter"'. Bartone said the quarry

had only been producing about 300,000 tons a year and nobody

will do business with them; that Bartone had "knocked them

out" of about 700,000 tons; that after Alvin Naiman had

lost the sales and distribution business for NCS in the

Cleveland area, it was given to a former Naiman associate

(probably named Barricelli) who used to haul for Sandusky

Crushed Stone; that there had been a shortage in payments;

and "they ought to do business with us this year"

In regard to $50,000.00 which had been posted

with bankruptcy officials in Canada in connection with an

attempt to regain control of NCS in 1961, Bartone advised

Contad de can

others, and Bartone used the other $25,000.00 foy Janefield

Village and other interests of Bartone.

He referred to

Janefield Village as potentially a 2 3/4 million dollar

Florida real estate development in which he has over

$100,000.00 and has a twenty-five per cent interest. Two

brothers

and the widow of the original owner have the

other seventy-five per cent.

Bartone said he has been

working on it over a

year and a half and recently has been

- 3 -

god-101 9

NW 45712 DocId: 32309334

Page

5

---

## Page 6

mich:

ment of the property, which is about 1½ miles west of

Cypress Gardens. Bartone indicated that Advance Mortgage

was going to put up the development money and Bartone may

have a quarter million dollars "preliminary money". Bartone

said that in regard to this matter he was staying away

from Hoffa and that if Bartone's present plans work out

Bartone would not need assistance from Hoffa or others.

Bartone also advised that he recently was

involved in borrowing $155,000.00 in connection with a

frozen food plant in Miami and

also is involved in a

$125,000.00 deal through which equipment would be pur-

chased possibly for an oil field development in Guatemala.

He indicated he is involved with a bonding company and has

a partner by the name of Wysockie (phonetic) who may have

some racketeer connections.. Bartone indicated that he has

people who can go to a bank and get loans on their signatures

provided Bartone can post a guaranteed bond for them.

Through this means, it cost Bartone $23,000.00 to borrow

$175,000.00. He advised that he had supplied some property

as collateral so that Wysockie could write a $100,000.00

bond and that Bartone had been selling a few lots for

expense money to get around.

In early 1961 Bartone claimed he owned the Playboy

Club franchise in Mexico City, Mexico, and in the summer of

1961 he said that he had or could get

He

cecently indicated he has banking comections at "the, Royal

sank of Canada in Nassau and has an interest in the Britist

Colonial Savings and Loan" in Nassau, in which he had

100,000 shares when the stock was a dollar a share.. This

savings and loan organization had made mortgage loans of

over $100,000.00, had reinvested about $25,000.00 savings

deposits, and kept its money in the Royal Bank of Canada at

a good rate of interest.

BAhAmA IshANds

- 4

508-1019\

NW

45712 DocId: 32309334

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Bartone allegedly travels only at night and by

automobile. He has recently been accompanied on some of. FLA

his business trips by Nicholas Nick Morris: Morris

reportedly resides in Miami with his father and has a

sister who is employed by the State Department and is FLAs

masted to groaniles ne and eat of els aheartone

particularly Morris, were believed to be carrying guns.

Also about that time Bartone reportedly stated that he

was connected with Hoffa and got a new Cadillac every year.

Bartone subsequently claimed to have "told off* Hoffa and

to have fallen into disfavor. When in Chicago in the past,

Bartone reportedly was in contact with Barney Baker, Joe

Glimco and Tony Accardo.

Bartone was associated with Don Ross at one time

in the ownership of a catering business, now defunct; and

in 1962 Bartone allegedly owed $67,000.00 to Ross. Ross

reportedly was "started out" in Chicago by Dave Yaras:

at a rosing bun

operated an automobile dealership and had other business

interests in the Chicago area; and recently had something

to do with a juke box enterprise in California.

Bartone once said, that there had been some u.s, 0,

"shenanigans" between P. D. Maktos and Petey Clayton.

regarding promising, or getting legal fees, to get Union

loans for people.

Bartone was skeptical about individuals

who claim they can get a loan from Hoffa. According to

Bartone, the Central States committee recommends whatever

Hoffa recommends and it has to be a "good legitimate deal"

-but Hoffa makes the decision.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loáned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

- 5 -

9Jl-1019\

NW 45712 DocId: 32309334

Page 7

---

