# docid-32309507

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10298-10294

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1693-55, 56

Released under the John

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 53074 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DWYER, ROBERT JAMES

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 04/10/1962

PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

INTERPEN, INTV, GPH, TRAINING CAMP, RES, ASSOC,

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY ACT, DEMONSTRATION, ACA,

TRA, FINANCIAL, INSTR, STOLEN CHECKS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, RPT

V9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32309507

Page 1

45

---

## Page 2

FD:283 (Rev. 5-7-58)

L.C

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVLSTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ÖRIGIN

MIAMI

DATE

MAY 1 4 1962

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOU

4/17 - 5/9/62

REPORT MADE BY

INTERCONTINENTAL

PENETRATION

ROBERT JAMES DWYER

FORCES: (INTERPEN)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTIONCTO OF CASE

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF D

IN CAMATION

IN MIS DOCUMEN KP 10 IL 97

SLD Rsl

My 91

(TEK)

Reports of SA ROBERT JAMES DWYER,

at. Miami;

4/10/62,

Bulet to Mobile: 4/17/62;

Mobile airtel to Miami: 4/16/52

TYPED BY

GK

REFERENCES:

Photo

•CC TO:

AID.

REQ. RECD.

3:96?

MAY 2 2 1967

ANS.

BY:

sul.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Information concerning the arrest of GERALD

PATRICK HEMMING at Mobile, Alabama, and original 3021s con-

cerning interview of HEMMING are contained in the report of

SA HARRY J. DEGNAN, Mobile, 3/21/62, in the case entitled,

"CLARENCE ARCHIE ABBOTT, aka, Etal; IMPERSONATION; ITSMV,"*

BuFile: 47-50327.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL

• AGENT

IN CHARGE

©- Bureau

(2-1693) (RM)

1 - U. S. Border Patrol,

Miami (RM)

1 - U. S. Customs, Miami (RM)

1 - Miami

(2-312)

273

60 MAY 291962

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY..

iS D.V--06a

REQUEST RECHAT to: CIA/State/RAO

ÖNI/OSIZACSI

INS, Cuslim

DATE TwO by routing ship for info.

HOW FWD. Date.

ANNA SL

N Me SHieS

Y.

ALER DIA

u.s. k553

2...

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

1093 - 36

:18 MAY 16 1962

REC- 79

EX-105

IONS

Marke

NH 53074

DooId: 32309507

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 2-312

IDENTITY

EMM I-1 10EMM639-S. JUDS)

INFORMANTS

LOCATION

Instant report, pages 3-4.C8S)

Careful consideration has been given to the

source concealed in this report, and "T". symbol

was util

ized only in that instance where identity must be concealed.

- BX =

HH 53074 DocId: 32309507

Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 2-312

On March 1, 1962, DAMON SHELTON NAPIER, in- |

terviewed at the Mobile, Alabama, County Jail, advised

that about two weeks previously,

he received a long dis

tance telephone call placed from California by ABBOTT,

wherein ABBOTT indicated he was going to visit Mobile,

Alabama, and would contact him. NAPIER said ABBOTT ar-

rived in Mobile about February 20, 1962, and was

accompanied by GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, whom he, NAPIER,

had also met while in Miami about a year ago.

said ABBOTT and HEMMING registered at the Palms Motel

the Palms"

NAPIER

on Highway 90, Mobile, and ABBOTT was driving a 1960

blue and white, four-door Mercury automobile, bearing

California tags.

NAPIER said it was his impression

that HEMMING came from California with ABBOTT; however,

he did not know if HEMMING knew this automobile was

stolen or if HEMMING received any of the proceeds from

its sale.

On March 1, 1962, HEMMING was located at the

Greyhound Bus Depot, Mobile, Alabama, where he stated he

had been released from the Mobile, Alabama, City Jail

that day after his case was nolle prossed.

HEMMING still

maintained he hitchhiked from California to Mobile; he was

not acquainted with anyone named ABBOTT; and, could not

recall any information concerning a 1960 Mercury automobile

of concerning any checks passed at the Springdale Plaza.

HEMMING said he was leaving by bus that day, intending to

go to Miami, where he would again be active with the Cuban

movement.

IMMI-1, an American involved in Cuban revolution-

ary activities during the past four years, la close friend

=3=

HH 53074 DooId:32309507 Page 4

---

## Page 5

D-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BURE

INVESTGAION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

APR 1 0 196c

3/30 - 4/9/62

TITLE OF CASE

REPORT MADE BY

ROBERT JAMES DWYER

CIA HAS NO OBJECEIQARAETER OF CASE

INTERCONTINENTAL

DECLASSIFICAD

AND/OR,

PENDTRATION FORCESPELEASE

FORMATION

(INTERPEN)

IN THIS DOCUMENT KP 10-16-99

NEUTRALITY MATTER

TYPED BY

ROD

filt

44 91

REFERENCES :

Report of SA ROBERT JAMES. bIER dated

12/6/61, at Miami.

Departmental letter to Bureau dated 1/30/62g

Bureau letter to Miami dated 1/30/62.

Miami letter to Bureau dated 2/5/62

DECLASSIFIED BY SEEMA GOL

ON:575/94

CC

LEADS-

REQ

AUD

RECD: 5. 9-62

MOBILE:

MAY 2 2 1967

ANS.

AT MOBILE, ALABAMA

BY:

В.к.д.

Will check local police records to ascertain on

what charge GERALD PATRICK HEMMING was held, how long he.

was in jail

and the extent of his involvement with DAMON NAPIER

SPECIAL AGENT

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES

BELOW

Bureau

(2-1693) (RM)

16935

5 S

REC: 72

US Border Patrol,

Miami (RM)

lette Milale?

-

US Customs,

Miami (RM)

- Mobile (RM)

10 APR 12 1962

2-111111

- Miami (2-312)

00T Xu

11-17-622

AGENCY..

REQUEST RECI

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD..

BY...

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

Mate

Cir

Customs. 1N5, 111G

4-12-62

- ради

RIs

R05/pr

NOTATIONS

OW HANST

+ 020

U.S. GOVER

HIH

53074 DooId:32309507 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 2-312

MIAMI:

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

will recontactem 639-s Tafter the Mabile Office

covers the above outstanding lead.

If HEMMING is still

inactive, this case will be closed.

- INFORMANTS -

IDENTITY

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL

INFORMATION

MM I-1 iSKMM 639-Sf(8)

2-312

(M2)

Careful consideration has been given to the source

concealed in this report and "T" symbol was utilized only

in that instance where the identity must be concealed.

B*

- COVER PAGE -

74 53074

DooId: 32309507

Page 6

---

## Page 7

FLA.

MM 2-312

replies with these form letters, some individuals did

come to Miami, Florida, participate in survival training

in the Florida Everglades, but INTERPEN, as such, no longer

exists.

HEMMING explained that he presently conducts no

'a young man

a book about the

Cuban revolution. HEMMING Is taking BROWN around to the

different Cuban revolutionary organizations, helping BROWN

gather information for his book. HEMMING said he still

maintains an interest in being avallable to train Cuban

exiles for some future military action in Cuba.

HEMMING said that in about the middle of January,

1962, he left Miami and went to los Angeles, California,

where he contacted a number of American businessmen who

wEre

interested in the present Cuban situation.

He tried

unsuccessfully to convince these businessmen to make money

contributions to be used by the Cuban exiles for some future 1

action against the present government of Cuba.

HEMMING said that about the middle of February,

1962, he traveled to Mobile, Alabama, where he visited a

friend of his named DAMON NAPIER,

and was arrested and

incarcerated by the police

' in Mobile, Alabama, on the

charge of investigation and was held one week.

HEMMING

said that he had previously met NAPIER in Miami and when

he visited him in Mobile, it appeared that NAPIER had been

involved with stolen automobiles and checks. HEMMING

said he was interviewed by the Federal Bureau of

Investigation, and after a week of incarceration by the

Mobile Police

Department, was released. He said he did

not know the disposition

of the charges

against of

involvement of NAPIER.

Ton April 3, 1962, MM I-1, Auho is a close

friend

and associate of HEMMING,

and who has been

involved in (X)(u)

15 00

NW 53074 DooId:32309507 Page 7

---

