# docid-32307992

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/19/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10293-10350

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-6054-1ST NR 2113, 2ND NR 2113

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO : SAC, MM

TITLE :

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/07/1967

4

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

v9.1

NW 45839 DocId: 32307992 Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

9/11/67

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBL

(ATIN:

(137-17219)

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR JAMES H. GALE)

SAC, MIAMI (137-4138)

MM 1231-C-TE

TECIP

Re Busirtel to Miami, 9/7/67.

The Bureau points out, in reairtel, as to certain

discrepancies contained in infozmation furnished by the

captioned informant.

One of these is the fact that PAUL

VARIO was identified by the informant as one of those in

attendance at meetings held in presence of the informant

in New York.

Bureau refer to Miami, airtel under captioned

matter dated 8/21/67, page 3, paragraph 1. Thewin it is

stated by the infozmant that VARIO had at one time been a

member of the BONANNO family, but was shifted to the LUCHESE

family and was made a "captain" by LUCHESE.

Bureau refer to Miami airtel dated 9/6/67, under

caption "LA COSA NOSTRA, AR - CONSPIRACY" wherein informant

was re-interviewed concerning that information furnished

that this trip was not to be coustrued as a "meeting" with

all persons in attendance at the same time. He states that

any misconception would have been his fault, that he was

'summoned" to New York by PAUL VARIO for a two-fold purpose,

number one being to re-finance informant for monetary set-

backs incurred during receit court trials, and number two, to

- Bureau (1-92-6054) (RM)

- New York (92-

LCN)

(RH)

NOT RECORDED

1 - Miami.

165 SEP 20 1967

RRH/ ysb

-

(7)

62 SEP 2 6 1967

2nd NR

2113

NW 45839 DocId: 32307992

Page 2

122/9

ORIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 3

MM 137-4138

bring informant up to date as to recent occurzences in the

LCN, particularly with regard to the BONANNO fantly. The

situation with that regard was furnished to the Bureau and

New York in the airtel mentioned above.

The informant insists that the initiation ceremony

ascribed to LCN membership by other admitted LCN members was

not the case in his situation and re-iterates that this

cerenony, although in existance at one time, was not given

to him, and at the time of his admission, according to the

informant, the ceremony was passe'.

Regarding execution squads set up by BONANNO

throughout the country as set forth in Miami aiztel to Bureau

8/21/67, the informant has no further details relating to

this at this time, however, he did explain that he had learned

during his trip to New York that these people had been "paid

off" by the other factions to disclaim their loyalty to

BONANNO to the point that they were no longer considered a

threat, at least as was related to the informant by VARIO.

In connection with the development of this informant,

as has been noted through experience with infoznants in

general, a complete picture of information furnished is

generally gained through a series of interviews and is particularly

true in this case.

This informant is not of a nature to be

"grilled" at length at any one confrontation. The interview

with him usually lasts no longer than an hour at a sitting

and some times less. At this stage of his development, the

informant retains a certain reticence toward conferences

with law enforcement personnel. It is expected that, with

proper development of confidence between Agent and informant,

these natural barriers will dissolve.

The next interview with the informant is scheduled

for about the end of this week, at which time sone of the

questions put forth by the Bureau in rebuirtel will be

attempted to be resolved.

2

NW 45839 DocId: 32307992

Page 3

---

## Page 4

9/7/67

Airtel

To: SAC, Miami (137-4138)

From: Director, FBI (137-7219)

ми 1231-C-TE

TECIP

The above-captioned source should be interviewed in

detail regarding his knowledge of La Cosa Nostra (LCN)

activity in an effort to obtain clarifying data with respect

to information he has previously furnished regarding this

underworld organization,

This source has reported that he was "made" a member

of the Bonanno "family" approximately 20 years ago, however, he

stated there was no initiation ceremony involved in connection

with his induction. It is noted that his account of beconing

a member of the Bonanno "family" substantially differs from

that furnished by other Buresu sources who are members of the

Bonanno "fanily." These sources have advised there was a

fornal cerenony at the time they became full-fledged members.

The Bureau's experience in connection with the

development of member-informants in LCN discloses that sone of

these sources are initially reluctant to provide intimate

details of their initiation, however, with additional well-

planned interviews, these source have furnished complete

information regarding the specific circumstances existing when

they becane members of LCN.

Miami airtel to the Bureau and New York dated 9/5/67,

entitled "La Cosa Nostra, AR - Conspiracy" advises the

informant furnished information regarding an LCN meeting which

he attended on Long Island, New York. This source reported

1 - Miani (92-853)

- Inforiation

1) = 92-6087 La Cosa Nostra,

(Ta Cosa Nostra, AR - Conspiracy)

AR - Conspiracy

JEK: bjn

92-6054-

(7)

NOT RECORDED

350 SEP 8 1967

57 SEP 1 119671

OUPLICATE YELLOW

1ATNR 21131827

NW 45839

Docid: 32307992 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Airtel

Re:

to

1ami

C-TE

approximately 13 members of the Bonanno and Gambino "families"

were in attendance.

Among those he identified were Paul Vario

and Carmine Tramunti, It is noted Bureau sources have

previously reported these two individuals are members of the

Luchese "family."

The informant should be pressed for full

details regarding this meeting, including its exact location

and identity of all in attendance.

-C-T& has also stated that Joe Bonanno

maintained "execution squads" throughout the country and

specifically in Los Angeles, Kansas City, Las Vegas, Chicago,

and elsewhere. The informant should be interviewed in detail

concerning this situation in an effort to obtain complete

details.

It is recognized that the informant, as a veteran

hoodlum, has an exceptional potential to assist the Bureau.

Interviews with him should be aimed at obtaining very precise

infornation regarding his knowledge and possible involvement

in LCN activity.

In reporting the results of the interview of MM

concerning this matter, designate copies for Bureau f1le 92-6054,

"La Cosa Nostra, AR - Conspiracy," and the New York Office.

Suairtel.

OTHER 4

C-TE

get 106

NW 45839

DocId: 32307992

Page 5

---

