# docid-32327479

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel -

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90064-10050

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

87-15374-26X1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

EP

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 08/15/1951

PAGES:

51

SUBJECTS :

NAB PAIR IN $47,000 SWINDLE FROM WIDOW

VICTOR EMANUEL PEREIRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32327479

Page 1

8

---

## Page 2

Receased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

ATE: 11-14-2017

5686.84.2

-

HIS CA

RASCIATED AT-LA

FEDEKAL BUREAU OF INVES ICATION

RE PASO

66559

0707-1572

DAT. MAGE AT

re29770

81,5 issue

8/1,pv0-10/51

Lictor Pert morn

Banes

Pradice Leralis

TOTAL SUBJECT,

O3-IOTTY

PONY STOLE AEROS CE

Sian han

1714 80

ETS6 GORTRUDS J.

1A30N

1157

SINOPSIS OP

FACTSi

jects FORSIRA, ace l5, ard SPADING)

using raze wes Are 25,

ze 35, first set rictit Canmose force

realty, Rossed, K. 3y

mary are 55, and her sister, lancidorca, aze Borag arose gener

ereciano irio fastorablo Del torto hotel;

3 Pasey Sets,

4-15.52

230% and lee, rescetirely posing as calty sportsosa and hug zer

351

lease operator,

aad siting 2950 Cadillac, pursed nogaintance.

Then nonen returnad to Rockell three days later,

PERs and ITS as house guestso mirtrina courtstios raspicin

SaTiaTE Of PERSIRi ad UO:C3 in. Karsas City,

20o, 5405-22 an in

engagement of torioR

1.155

parated posed as haring just sect

diTorced in Denter,

Collo, and raring 34e, 000.00 conna to a chart

tie tos property

sequantis

sirindled

settlesente

Ca this basis 150 and PERA sri

JOiCE out of 343, 243033.

85, 000.00 fires so Lit

1-25-57 to perciase fictiticos cal lease fer fezazie percirs

FarEzis.roceipt.of.above rcresa

This 35,000.03 belteved trina.

ported interstate fron Resell, No lo, to Lubbocky Deras,

where. 1a

cashed charier is check.

Roo,

sa 5-23-51 for

JOICE gave FERETRA $6956.55, 1n Fansas Citys

purchase of

rich FERSTRA still

1952 tro-toco comertitlo cactic

had when he disappeared on 6-21-52.

10702 Pero

Frapù check.

{05.$35,286.79 in RosTell, in May On Óll-51 to 25-

chase fictitious option on fastington sotel, Creerrille, Pecs.

FREIRA tanscorted

Iates, shere

Fra's

chec interstate fros Rogret to el Fosey

El Pasoo

Check

deposited for colloction with State to loral ong

who

has

cleared on 5-19-51 and cron in arco bilisaterers

not been seen since Irferition recalves fris"

Hiasi, Cilrhona

City and Euronu indicates Inb and Pipetri enders of

idesprcad sang of cortidence zon overating over, entira to SayiniaCo

22E INCLUdeS PAUL AUGUSTUS KI: O, FBI 42524295, J03 PONDESOLE PE

417053, and SIDia (DOC) SOLONY, FEI 876762 Facto la tria co:

co presentod to AUSi HONEl MILLiNs on dily 30, 1951, aFa cooptain

EXT'EVITE PROCES

DO NOI

211/11:26/1N000D

HANG 56 1051

INDIED - 65

8-161

BUT. NEXT PAGE

53 NOV 7.

suri

1951!

SEE!

AND.

07-15874- 26X11

buted ourite of agency lo whitch kangel.

L

DocId: 32327479

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

Г

Г

E2 57-1522

E-12-520

Subjecis Iã Id FEEi appronerded bor Yors E-12-5-a

iraiged sara dato before baja Conissiones ISiO Plina, Southera

District of ter yorr, and remanded to Federaà Ecuse of Istention in 11ca

$50, caro tondo

Hearing sat incongro isi El Faso rectaeros $20,000.00

tond returnable irstenter at in tasse

Associates into and Solony presentlo in Dearer, Colco

2

]

- Alad El Farg

leary (Into)

lbuquerque (Exclse)

Fosten (Erio)

CicT:3ard (Erciso)

miles (Beige)

Denitr (Eralsa)

2

Patroit (ereis.)

- Zaraas City (Erciso)

COPIES CO SHIS RECOR

2 - Lit-le Pock (Erals)

2

2

Linnescolis (Enciso)

2

lion Ecri (Enciso)

2

2

Facerax (Ecis)

Silt lare City (Excis)

SarMitorio (Erals)

San tacco (Exels)

Sin Francisco (Encla)

- El Peso

DETAILSI

AL SI PASO, TEX?3

It is noted that this report mas treed prior to the aceronersion of sub

Joots a?:DI'D and PEtIPi and ERDI! 1s relented to in the body of thig

roport as 15s, the nite under nhich he opiratid in this smindleo

This investiration 13 tased upon information received iron it. la la lilora,

aerber of the lan fura of Cunrindan and Malone, Fassett Icwer, El Paso,

rexas, on dire 22, 19510 ca trat date tro MilotE telephonically contactod

ASiO F. To lO INTYRE and furnished indomation corcerning the sirinaling

Of lIJA GERTRIDS JO ICYCE Of ROmell, lie lexico, by subjcets PrEli

Ind LEE as Hill bo set forth beloro

The frets in this ease more presciod on tral 530 11 2 26X1

States ittorng HONEY WILLIS, El fago, luxas. Progicution nas da

clinod at that tire ty tr. TIlLius on the grounds that tro swirdling

of lISa NICE na rolated ty tire liLOE on that dato did not constituto

a violation of a federal statutoo

=2:

L

DocId: 32327479

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under. the John F. Kennedy, Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

3893

7

587-2512

ca duly 30, 1957, Assistiat Frited States Attorney TIlLiN'S contacted

the El Faso Office and advised trat he had received additional iníor=a-

tier iron lI. Wi01 thich in tis opinion brought the activities of

PErEZa and 1ãa and their uinea associates vitin the purrier of the

federal statuteso

On that date lI. O. In lICIE ins reinterniered by the writer, and the

fallaring is the information famished by 15. WikiE corcerning this

zitter:

mila stated that les. GERaRDE do MYCE, age 55, acalt Bo5mall,

lan toxico,

Midon, residing at L01 Hest 1lth Street, Roswell, lier

Mexico, had contacted him on dare 21, 1951, and related the folloring

information:

isa sTiGE stated that on ipril 19, 1951, she and her sister, liss

age 30, who resides mith her in Rostoll, ter lexico,

rad cose to El Pago, Texis, to sapp and receive sedical treaterta

Ursa JOiCE and her sistor drore to al Peso in lIsa JJICE's l9i Chrjaler

autorobile and arrivad in front of the Del licte Boto, El Pass, at

antoximataly 5:30 P! on that dateo

HIS. JUICE adrised that she had

been diridrg a littlo bit on the road fros Postall to sl pass and that

hes sister, kitizili sorter, had arivon the autosobilco

As the doorwan at the Del Norto tas assistirz lIsa JOICE and liss

Friar iron their autonobile, a tall, niec-lcoing, well-dressed

Ian abait 35 jears of age mith a "hail fellen well not? attitude had

come fran the Dol Norte to the sideralks whore the tonen were alighting

art greeted the nover boisterously, asking then for they were and how

their trip fres lion lexico had tsano

urse diC? stated that she had

never seen this nan before and presined that ha asced abort len lcrico

Dron the fact that their car bore tien lodico licensee

Tras sang later

Idertified as LuES ERiLEY lEE, mas extrerely afreeable and persisted

In talking to lIs. JOYCE, tha sited thit she ma probably more sociable

tinan she trould have been had ear not been driridnas and succeeded in

stIllang up acquaintance mith lasa JOYCE.

DIso JOYCE stated that lSE's ransor was so faullar that she at

Hirst thought he mas one of the hotel procters and asked tim 15 bo

were connected with the hotel. lat stated that ho was not and pulled

song land of card from his wallet and waved it in front of krse JoXcE,

stating that "In just an old Tuxas boy".

ArS. JOICE Introduced LEE

to her sister, Miss JOINER, and Lit assistod the momen in chociding into

the hotel on that occasion.

Insedlately riter lit and the woeen had enterod the lobby, PEREIRi,

who had been sitting in the lobby, came up and joined the

tree of

them and mas Introduced to tho moreno urs: JOICE stated that both

PEREIRA and LEE mOre extrunely well drossod, had ploasant, open faces,

and appeared to bo Ben of cong see!

-3 .

L

DacId: 3232747

Page

4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Г

7

Г

7

EP 87-1512

thassalmes to be taken to diases tarn soDa tigat by liz aId PODIA.

Ty rotaimal 1a El Faso too thase days and bare esccated arosmore

LE3 ENS FEDIRA tade tRaSiTES sO acceptible to

K5.

Such and hor sistor that doc= tela retira do Posaull these.

1==3

this as their house fioses.

Wiss 17Ba Ida 1a the 1950 Cadillac

19:9 cajoler.

Ma. Minis stated that les, dents bos 55 years a 25e and bad bots

simlad too tad been a iláca for in lant too resea and bal no caildren.

22

stated that she has abricnaig a tena at taras and culture and

*= X=s.

J0105 ta3 tons tin that she bad tuter bet aor heard

1952.

vite espressed the opinica tint die bostia bebreco the

tad slarij come to El Fogo dad cineded into a fashionabie botel for

MiriE stand that he kod crocked ibe rocerds of the Del liarto Hotel

2 Pound that lãe and FoREta tad segistered 1a st the del More

c5: d511 19, 1751, also.

the adbress of lll don" Serect, Destos, Priendo.

MaS. I07C3

2715:9 MONS that FOREIRd and lia cortitiad to be ber house guests

Per the mitt too of thrue weens, Mey centside ELeaseltes in being

IúCE tO MIS, 10I05 and Miss 12122.

PREDERA'S SUEDOR WAS lapeccatio,

his dress was the finest, and las. delde seated that she found

barsEir falline in lom vich FarA.

Shortly after 10S and FIPEiRd arTiTad ln Passall as the giests ot

MS, JOICE, PEREIRA told les, JOICE that be and lEt had bees starine

at tba Hestuard Mo Hotel In Procatt, Milssan, sere they had been

t=thiz pert 1a a bi8 Bols to rarent.

Ba told has. JOICE that to.

us in the process of obtaíniro a divorce in lenter, Colorado, and.

that the property settlesent lodid bo sado 1n the rury seer future,

cE Wilch Else ho, PEREIPA, vould reccita 848, 200.00.

A 8uu days Ifter LEE and PEPEIL had aTired in Roguell at tho hoso or its.

JUICE, FFERRI

recoired a telceras tros denver, Colorado, addressed

tO FERDIRA aL MIs. JOYCEla bosa, siating, ca acar so les. JOYCE oculd

rescabar,

ayou rocolved $48,000 DA" diviaion of property and your

+100TCs 81101 X17 28.9

Lie in the seant lee had been saiine tripe out tros Rosvell tran dor to

ly, alstlig that ho had a 1

iN

L

DoLId: 32327479

Page

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14<2017

i-

EP 87-1512

West Texas and that 18 was necessary ice hi= to zens these tripe 15

order to taice care aó his o11 lease

D= Apai 25,

cane bass fros ose of his trips and toid Mes, JOICE trat be had a sIe-

fire lease in southiestern lew Mexico that ho would liia very mica

to have FarEIPA "eet 15 on," a9 11 sas a sure thing tart Feiaral come

double his torey withis thirty to sitty days! tie.

is pointed out

howeter, ther

PErEIRA cold tot get in on the deal irates

aS FERDIA'S sorej cas tied up in tha groperty settlement in denmas,

Colorado, and that FErtià would not receire tis torer ter a fax boris

and vas tbereby going in have to lose a chance to dosala lis surer.

tat in vlow of the fact the PeEra as 50155 to

get the 119,600.0g

1:31 lES. JOICE LORE PEREIRA 15,000.50 in enter tat

he more tale admantara of this ofecItarty.

ia. J012 accordirgy

opere shit for dl as

*se chece to lã for too purpose

MI. MONE turnel ares to

the arent a photostatio copy if tre abora

35,000.00 checia

Te inoci 19 dezaz da the First latiçzai Sari sa

Roasell, Fess11455,505.50.

checia ta. 518, dated 455i2 29: 295,

In the azount of

Beatacieone ebeca is parasia to suediana and 13

signed GERTROLE J.

On 15211 26, 1951,

check aù the Fist latioral Eank of Rasuall and the endorgezent soows

MINES 3.0125, 302 Soutriani Life 3119153, 1322a3, Dezas."

photostatic cors of this check is talag calatained in tha files it

the El Faso Field Cricion.

Ms. VALoks exhibited to cad turned orer to the salter a castierg crosie

In the Ecount of 34,500.00, dated A91l 26, 1953, 19751, 155u01 by tao

First National Bark ch Foswell, Rosall, deu Harleo, drawn on the

Republie lational Guii of Dallas, Jailas, Texas..

Marcis bag furnished

a photostitle copy cl this choci by ias.

she later chacied at lice Firat listicial Bari ca Foguell, she vas

Infora:d that L5a ha! cashod the $5,000.00 chase given his by tes ca

Apr1l 26, 1951, had taron 14,000.00

•In the cas of the abore castler's

heck and had takes 12.000.00 In 033"

An cicatination of this caeca

reflects a stamp or. tha front of the first latcarl Bado, Libbocir,

The reverse

side of the choes reflocts that it vas cashod at

the above bari on d.=11 23,

1951, and cleared through the Dallas, Texas,

ClearinE House 0B A,il 39, 1951.

Da the aight of Apil 26, 1951, the came day that La drew the 15, 000.09

tron the First Natiosal

bank of Roswell, he told KATPIN Joler that be

bad to go to Lubboci, Ierno, to sect "SIDiaY."

parent call puld he no, e that sott of beide.

It should bo noted that "SIDil! rsy bo Identical ulth

87-15374-26X1:

L

DocId: 32327479

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

EP 87-1512

i-

Vasa JICE related thet on jull 29, 1951, sho cad PEPIllA easo baeic

in E: F250 1-

ahe 1e5o Cadillac thica is ard Perated bad, Irestrich

i, sa: Maó businsea i= 12 Faso at tact *159.

JOYCE and PEREIR:

thi botel record reflecting,

Mat 20y -0-21 17 02 47d 27,

1951, ard checko: out or Mar 2,

15..

1=3. 10a0 sisted that cadmil 30, 1951, the day eiter soa

into bad to 2et faraid to siga tie oil lease for which she daà

15s. 50vc5 stated that see bod lososs that 15a

cisi to 5l 5as0 to divide the slost el 15,000.00 vita PaRar.i.

Y:3.

JOe suried that 1t sis her ofinion that 1t ins on this tris

tat

¡TEll spasad an account at tire seate batioral Bars cô E2 Fess.

i catart tia rubonis of tha Stato lational. Bard ut Il PasO be

tea rial= rainital this opinion, tha boris reeced reflectina tiat

VICHER FEROR, giving ten address có 401 11th Stasat,

loü Mixico,

Rosaal,

ra1 opinia an secount sita that bani: ca isaia 36, 1951,

Mith a dupecia or dl,dão.00.

fter rio,

Faraira, Ira Mrs. do70e raturaid to Reshall on May 2, 1951,

BE end rail contiaced to be tice housa guesto or Mas. Jones.

bout tay 10, 1951, as nosr as YES. JUIt COLid Isseber, sce zi

sarats, with utes see bad fallon complately in lore by this tire,

started on a "re beasyacca hossyacos. "

Frios to the taglening of tils trip, PEREIRA bed told Mes. J0703

that though it cabarrassid hia considerably to adult it,

as his propirty cotilerant bad tot come through, be vos a lstile

short on cash and asicad her for en airanca against his property

sottineant.

In order not to cabarrass PEPEIPà, Mae, JOICE gut a neighbor,

down to the 21r3t liational Bari In Rostall end

Mr. Mialia turred cros ts the urlier tho original of choci isido,

drawn on the First lational Faris of Boswoll, Roswell, lew Mexios,

parable to jai, CuR in this assurt of 11, 000.00, dated May 11, 1951,

and signed by GERTRUDE S. JOICE.

This check 19 esdorsad on tho bacis

by s. W. COX.

The original of this chock 1s belng snintälned in thi

files of the 5l Paso Fold Offico.

On the aboro sortloned i pre hunaysoon honeyeoon, & they vore travellig

by airplans and Mes, JUICS furnished her attornoy, Mo. MaLdiE, with

a lottor which she had written to hor sister, KiTHRYN JOliER, at

Roswell, which she had =allod fros the Kenp Hotol, Mchita pallo,

87-15374-26X14

IN

L

DocId: 32327479

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14≤2017

7

7

14. 2)

Ex 87-1512

Toras, on laj li, 19510 too WillE Mirnished this letter to the trite

Inasauch as it contaired sose origiral handmiting of leto this lettes

is as follers:

me lintie el - thirdng of you - tating loads of fon

but =issing jon. fave tirzalic targarsro

Is/ asis"

On too bottie of this leteer, DE, dino fad =at iiCE and PerEiRi in

Ficista Falis,

Texas, added:

ujris is jour true love spoiling - Sope your lea receired mie

Poses

i.

Ko aad trat ay listle crags is doing so Ko

- 711

Gent-aRea birng too tino of tacir lives - de mill baro

ourse later drop =s a lina d/o tro Texas Hotel, Ft isr

l'exas tiss jai and till see you latera

This critial letter is beirz raintained in the filos of the El Paso

Fiola Divisiono

Fros tictito Falis, 20x35, IDEli and diCE fler to Jill 5, 705e5,

and then to tot senirga, irransas, there they sport a ict days at tia

irlington Estel.

Uso JOiCE stited that since anotir? ItS and fEREri, thes tad asked

her bag sos jiang a Cadillac autosobile and had soirded cit the desi-

rability ci catara a Cadillaco

inso voica stated that she had learred

to lice a Calilas vory such ard she and PaRalia decided to got coco

rale the and Faazi more staying at tre ilington kotch in Hot frings,

PEREi reculood a telephone ell seem sorsono in lanors Citi, l'issouri,

the identity of mon lise JoiCE deas not ion, statina that laraza

could pet 3 Cadilize in Yansas Citjó They Iomediately Men to Kirsas

City, arriting there on taj 21, 1952, where they checeed in at tire

ister FaEli and Joica had been in Kansas Citr

for a diy or so, farari told her that sha mas "too ráce a garla to bo

runring aroird all over the country with hin and not rarried to his.

Consoquertig, shes decided ta get marriedo lo. MilCE exhibitod to

tho mriter a photostatle copy of an application for licengo to sorry

1asued to ¿NICE and iEREiRi, dated May 24, 2951, furnishod to his ti

the Marriago Lice-so Fureau in Karsas Citj, Missourto

MISo JOYCE states tine after sho and PEREDA decided to get married,

they nothtled LEs and her aster in Rostrell and that LEE and KiTiRIN

FINER Men to Lansas City and More prosent at tha cise that vor de

and PERili more sarried in the louhlebach notol on Los 25, 1951.

87515374-26X19

IN

100

L

DocId: 32327479

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

20 86 512

Г

7

d=*;

IN

L

E8 87-1512

Agate and ters woe to painted sal contes?

the cadillao voich he and icica vere golag to purciase.

contacted her brokers, Fevel and Cosparo, los lageles, California,

1n 0rder to have noney sent to ber at Fansas City de- the perjose

of paring for the Cadillas.

1s. 11119 turned over to the miter a

photostatic copy el a chee: 2=5322,

dated lay 25, 1952, arava on the

Citizens National Earr, Los A-geles,

alIcornia, by Fewel Mad Cospery,

JOIcE, care Hotel Mewblebach, 12th and Balti-

ECTO Streets, Yaas City, Misscurl, In the azourt of $6, 556.55.

As exe-ination of the revenge side of this check refleets that it 19

sEa, in that crier teared at be tea,

Kassas City, Misscurl, On lay 23, 1951.

The abore photostatic copy of

checs 5r-5322 1s belrg sairtrized in the files ci the El Faso Field

PESIa had previously known Strail, according to las. JOYCE, but

2011 Yes, JoicE that he did not sant to invite Socia to the beading,

es STUDd's wile las a dricand and sight "causo a soone,"

After receiving the check fros feral and Coapary, FERelad bought the

Cadillas at a

kept by farzIPA.

cost of 54, 750. 05, the reseinder of tse eobey belrg

KI. MAiCiE ststed that he bad subsequently ascortained that R. 1.

JETT vas esployed ty STUDiid 1n Tansas City ard tha: SalDills telephone.

rusber was Gladstore 3714, Farses City, Missouri.

M. MALONE subsequently contacted JEN concerning the Cadillac and

was adrised that the dotor number of the Cadillac 61s 5 162-10296

and that it vas a 195l tro-tore blue steel top clus coupe.

MaiciE further stated that he kal subsequently coatacied the Motor

Vehicle Pegistration Burcau 1r. Topeka, Kansas,

and jelferson City,

Missouri, and had been unable to find any registration in oither

M1880151 or Kansas.

MaIn stated that Mrs. JICE bad t0l1 bin that there was a saril anount

of alleage on the Cadillac at the tize they purchased it and that 1t

Dore a 1351 Kansas Ilcerise at the time of purchase. MALONE, hovever,

adrised that he had not been able to find any record of this auto

soblle and expressed the opinios that SIUDAlA sight be a seaber of the

confidence gang vith PEREIRA and LEE.

hortly aftor the purchaso of the above Cadillac ty PEREIRA, he an

18 nes vise started a lelaurely fback to dom to den Margoo

illo in Kansas City, PEREIRA had told Mrs. JOTCE that he was an old

Elsa botel operator and that be had an option to purchase the

DocId: 32327479

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

EP 87-1522

-...

i-

Washington Hotel 1n Greentille, Iexas, and that If he could get this

hotel, that the two of thes would bovo in "inered incosed the rest

of theis lives.

FErRa extibited to Mes. doite a paper pipesting

to be the oftico.

Ks. JOICE stated, hoverer, trat sho bag so 1r

love bith FERDIRA ly this timo end had go zuca confidence i= ti=

that she dis not exarine the optioa but sing toss bis word for it.

Os the trip bacis tovarà reseli,

PEPSIPA dOTE MaS. JOYCE trouga

Freezville and poosed the dachtraton totel.

Fe pointed out tae

mashingto Hotel and said in effect, "There it 15, honey, I is cas

get it, ve're ali set." to did toe, houorer,

5-op at the lashligton -

nor contact anybody coenected vith tice botel.

FaRDIRa told jas, Joice that be has beziarina to be a little irried

about tatting the hotel, harrer, inasuan as his option oniy bad a

short time to run and he bad not yet received toe *8,COs.00 f=∞=

the above zestioned property settiezent is jester.

that the 148, 000.00 would to sufficient to race up the option and that

1t would be a stare for aia to lose such a good business deal becaus

of the slowess of the property cattlezent la leaver.

Mrs. JOICE stated that they spent a few dogs at the Baker Hotel in

on the say back fros Kansas City ard erived back in Fostell

In the red Cadillac about June 9 05 19, 1951.

fort dorth,

Texas, telepoone Fortune 2431g

telling Kos, JOUCE that to J. MILSCl was the attorruy handlise tho

option on the Greerrillo, Texas, hotel for hi.

Fa-zird told tse

individual ubes be called wilso that he had no get gotier his

property settlesent fros Denver and stoted that he sould hava to

have an exteraion on the oftion for a week, as he vas sure the

818,000.00 would be released to bis within that tir. Tus days iater,

on June 13, 1951, PERSIA got a telegran dirscted to tra. J0I031s

house fros wIlsci, confiming the fact that wilson kad obtained a

one week's extension on the hotel option.

MS. JOICE stated that

she persorally road this tolegres and know that 1t caso. from Fort

MI. MALONE advined the agent that Mrs. JOYCE had told bla that after

she had cose to lency that she had boun swindled, that she had traced

the telephone in fort worth, mmber Fortune 2434, And found that

1t was a telephone answering bureau located at l4ll, Electric Bullling,

Port worth, Toxas, which bureau was oused by CEDRIC and NORA LOU

CHRISTIAN.

After JOYCE and PEREIRA returned to Roswall and PEREIRA supposedly

got a one week's oxtension on the hotel option, ho told tro, JoYcE.

that he was afraid that his property setticment vould even then not bo

8731-374-26X19

L

DocId: 32327479

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Г..

Г

RV. 2

=P 87-1 12

sade 1a tise far his to taice up tha oftion end that he told lose the

deal.

Ee persuaded tas, misto so "lesa" his $35, 000.00 dits viles to

tae sp the splice, stating that to wald poz her back itodiniely

pan receipt at his pert ca ta papertz settiezant.

She agreed to

¿o this.

vI. MAiciz tuna cror to the miter a pastostatie com

ca "te Citizers latican) Bair == los

Rosali, sex Yardeo,

1a t5a Escuat aó $35,236.73.

The reterse side

of this abase reflects an eadersezeat by Mas. GeraRiDE Jo duien ano

VICTOR FRIEN

Mrs, 5013 sarised lints tot she gare the above chees to Feasipa

1n Poswell, Seo Mesdes, en dune l4, 1551, at vich t1oe sibe san 2is

put it is his ballet.

Ca Juss 15, 1951, FEESIA IN IDICE case to I Faso agals sad staged

et the Del tate Rotel.

rEpaird had told her that be sorted to

deposit this zoney in the State laticIal Bars of El Fa00 BalizE Wit

the ziney baáci he circar had there? sad thea they coula carry on

tbeir bustaess througa das State lational Ears.

t5s. Jica stated

that sio endorosd the crock after they reached El Paso but tiat she

did rot go to tho taris with bis lansouch es she trusted his so very

reb that she tas villlag ic lis to trensace this business alone.

An ex-inatica of the reverse side of the abore sentioned checis,

which is beira zaintainad in the flles oi the El Faso FIeld DIVisIOn,

reflects that it was

deposited vith the State Agtional Fari of El Paso

on Jusa 15, 1951, "SCI COllection only."

Mi. MRicia stived that he bad ascertained at the Ststo National

Saris that ¡EarPi had spoifically requested that this chece ba

deposited tea collection ogly and that it bo seat to the citizens

National seria 1a Los angeles and returned sirza1l, Ma. Mris

stated that be had escertained that PapElld taliod with la. SIDEY

FOXLES, Assistant Cashier at the State lational Dazi, concerning

2h1s Intier ead had been assured by is. Hah? that ho would have

a retura on the check vith'a tvo or three dajs.

The sallovira day PEPSIPu and JOYC3 left El Pago and drove to Paildoso,

New Mexico, for a mekend party.

bile at the party, JuIce beccee

111 and she and PEDIPi tat on to her bose in Roswell.

had expressed concern for her illness, tolling her that they vould

bate to fo to Greentilier innhieeton fotal there. -

on June 20 for the purpose of exer-

claine the option on the

to tho ricially of Hobbe, Neu Maxios,

• for the purposa of looking over

820-15374-26119

IN

L

DocId: 32327479

Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

5686

RV.2

Г

SP 87-1512

an o1l lease naich be lad tere.

L5E and PeRCiPA Feadsed JOYCS

that they would be becis to 2:30?. Mo ch the aftercoon of june 19, 1951, Pai

Eird stating that be wanted to get a good night's sleep prior to the trip

to Greezille the follcing date.

When Le and PEREIPà left st 5:30 4. M. 0n the saraing of Juse 19, 1951,

Cast is the last tibe she ever

saw either of thes.

JOIce stuted that

when li and Parald dia sot retura on the right ci Jusa 19, sha

becase kritied and iten they did not retura all day the day of

June 20, 1951, she decided that FIFEIRd for sose resson had decided

to go on to Greenrille by hirsell and atted to lisa optica os tha

hotel asd not bother her instrich as sce had bees 21.

by the munger ef the backington Hotel that be bad zad the botel

leased for a nuber of yuans and, 1a fact, had just signed a seu

Josz ters len e on the botal ard ew nothing whatever about cor

oftion on tbe hotel.

The zager of this hotal further adrised

MES. JOIDE that VICTOR PRIZA and JNIES 3. lot vere both entiraly

TIg, Jords at that time bacre suspicious that she had been sindled

si imediately called the Sante National Basir 1a 1l Paso.

sho ascertained tiat FeraliA had checked out the $35,200.00 which

they had deposited Ica coilsction on Jure 15, 1951. It vas at that tire

that she called the las fira di Canninghas sod Malore for assistance.

M3. JOICE stated that 01 Jure 21, 1951, she received a local call

tros sone telephone in Acs-ell, and upon arsverine 1t, a san's voice

"iTe yOu GERTRUDE JOICE?"

asiced in turtles tones me you endorine limo yos. mos stated

She answored, "Yes."

The voice then stated,

there vere several sen in

asked the san, "Is this Coxie The son sald, "in " Sto then asked,

"Is this BOB?" Ine IOn said, "lo," and then sald, "Bou aro you? I

bope you enjos liring the next vock or two. " With that, the san

hung up the telephono.

On Juno 21, 1951, 2150 13. JICS receirod a lotter postsarked al

Paso, Texas,

June 20, 1951. 1

ME. MALINE furished the uriter tho origina

of the abore letter, which Iu as followss

#EL, PASO

JUDe 20, 1951

"Dearest Gertrude:

This letter 1s very difficult to urite for I bare dono a

very 100l1sh thloe. j'in and I had too such to drine and

87 15374-26X14

19

L

DocId: 32327479

Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the

John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

+74=

Г

Г

EP 87-1512

ended up bere.

Ha sosetou got to garbling ens 1

lostetely lost of bead and lost all my bozey.

dosit have the courege to face you under tirase cicus

stances so dia and i are golia cut to raise sane 90ze7.

Soca as I as ¿bla to do this, I vill see you.

"Iy sot to thirs too harshly of se and I till scar

all this sess out.

/s/ TECTOR"

Jay enirina of this lotter is Seleg scintairad 1a tiss files of Ea

Mrs. JOICE rescabared that Laz had told then that be les fros fier

land, IcIes,

and stated that lia bad a briefcase upcs thied was

stasped "INES B. LI, Richland, Jexas."

that they had left quite a lew articies

of clothina tobine.

While 155 was siay tros bes base during the portinast period es 5=a

of his perlodie trips, toat te bad told hor sister, Miss =002,

to brite

11s in Fort Worta, Texas, in care of the Icas Eotol, kic

she had dore.

HIS. JOICE doscribed FIRERA as follows:

12=s

ABO

Flace of birth

Sex

Race

Height

bie ight

Hair

Eyes

Coeplestos

Bulla

Pestures

Dress

Other

VICTOR EMANIES FERZIL

About 45

Northern Calliorais

Male

baite

61119

215 1bo.

Dark brown, reseding

Brown

0117e

Well, nedius

Pleasant, wears black sis=sche

wears fine clothes

Sald to bo Coptsin in t. S.

Havy during iold her II;

alce volcay fald tristuatch.

M58, JOYCE describad LEE La SOllOUS!

Age

Ho1gtt

JAMES BRADLEY LIE

35 to 40

6 249

87-15374-26X18

•0

184

L

DocId: 32327479

Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

+i4-

RV.2

5: 67-1522

he seat

Sex.

Pase

dais

Bres

Characteristics

Dress

185

Male

Ligät brown

2100

Messas face, "3a11 Sellow vell

[et$

Dresses well; good sarners; poses

es cil lesse openito=.

Sna stated that the 1950 blaci Speclal Cadillac bolz BItes by lãE

92145

License fina Dallas County, mica license Ibe= she was

Le suribly senaunt sheets feistire to tha bosourt of Motor parala,

balah soonut stacts vero being beld by the state Nation: Eras

main as ther veng saries

These Escount =3octs =arlect

tri: Pe221 sated at socount at tha State Antional Enir ce El Fasc

05 dil a, 1951, 5ita e deposit co 5a400.00, as set tenta aboro.

the stiteserts tuch saou FERtils ecccust througa sir 18, 1951.

remert so rather deposits sod that Fazira still les a balance 1.

this baris os $23.c2.

These acocunt steets contain tibe talloring

censeled checks,

a11 sigsed MICIO? PEREIRA gal drava cI the Seate

Eaten Barr at 21 i255:

azil 30, 1951 - Checis 1n Isast cl Fi3.D0 pejible to DenTer

Lodge 117, esdorsed ty iNES J. PITT, Seerstart,

B.P.D. Lo Lodge 117, Debtes, Galorado.

Hey 1, 1951 - Cres 1n the sourt of $ó7.59, parable to tba talon

Motilag Compary, El Feso, Saras,

endorsed by the

Dalon clothing coupart.

152, 1951 - Crecs In the anouat of 351.00, paralia to tho incrica

¡LIátute Cospary and endorsed and strapid lor deposi!

by the derican pirature Crapay of ll Faso, Texas.

May 2, 1751 - Caack parable to cash 15 tbe anouat as 8i50.00.

12y 9, 1957 - Oarck In the asount of 507.00, perabio to the

erican Maniture Capary, eadorsed for deposit

oy tbe buerican Pustiture Coopany.

Mey 9, 1951 - Chock 11 the asouat of 82, DC.00 perablo to cast.

88-15374-26X11

L

DocId: 32327479

Page 14

---

## Page 15

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017 -

7

2: N4•23

Г

EP 87-2512

200;

at the Merckants Berk, Kances Clty, Missours, on

May 23, 1952.

Juse 2, 1951 - Creek 11 toa Rocurt of $203.87. Ibere 15 20

pages britten of the face of this checie bit the faca of

the chec's contelns a step "Casher i1, Baker Estel,:

The cback 1s esdorsed for deposit only by the beier

Fotel, Dallas, Iexas.

June 4o, 1957 - Check 17 the escuat of $200.00, pajable to east,

stasped on the reve-se side at the First Fational

Ban':, Roswell, liew Mexico.

Juse 15, 1951 - Creci for $250.00 payable to cash, the stesp

on the reverse aids irdicating that this check vas

cashed a: the State latiosal Bass.

Jase 17, 1951 - Check 15 the sount of 845.03 parable to tbe

order of the joisy äater Lodge.

Too steap on tbe

verse sid.

shows that the check was cleared through

he First liational Eusic, Foswall, lien Metico.

This check is endorsed of the rarerge sle

with the sase "d. D.

LIPTON LY DE. D. Bo SIDE?" and

and sbows it to have been casked at the Otero Calaty

state Basis, Alesogordo, Sew laxico.

This check is esdorsed on tha reversa

side by "JOE INSOIl", casbed at the Frst lstional

Bank,

Roswell, Hew Meries, to the credit of the Contral

Hardware, Incorporated.

June 19, 1951 - Check In the asount of $125.00 parablo to cash,

he stuso on the reverse side showing that 1t ba.

cashe1 at the State liational Bari of El 1a50.

The above bark statesents and canceled ebocks ars being saintained in the

Illo of the El Paso Flold DivisioD.

Mr. MALONE stated that inaseuch as the above sot out checi dated

April 30, 1951, payable to the Denver Lodge 117 In the arount of $18.00,

was endorsed ty Mr. JAMES J. PITT, Socretary of Denver B.P.O.E. Lodge $17,

that ho had called Mi. PITI by tolephone.

Ho stated that Mr.. PITT bad

told bis that FEREIRA NaS a caber of Denver B.P.O. E. Lodge 117 but that

very few pasple around the lodge inow anything about bia.

HS. PITT

advised that PEREIRA'a sponsor in entering the lodgo, uhich ho joined on

878615371-26X19

L

DocId:32327479

Page 15

---

## Page 16

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992. (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

55RG

7

3P 87-1522

JaFCaTy 4, 1952, WAS ODS MIM. CREY, resting at 717 Serport Street,

Derrer, Colorado, Mo. FITI atrised thai PoPSTAd bad e fine persorality

but vas a big the prosoter and ticai he ber tezy little good about his.

Ee stetes FREIA has beez Inied at least tereo tires, once to aa

isdividual by tbe rare of his RIce, ito at one time eased the Seiat

Farcis Fetel In Denver. Mi.

PIt? stated that ke lederstood that FEELIRA

zad sentied agals in Lansas City, Missozl, 1s May, 105, 8od had

bozebt a rev Cadillac while in fareas City.

pity furtzer stated that it bas his understanding that ferall owed

botel tills at the Westward Eo Fotel in Farenit.

Pin sirised test

ÈRE CiParis telepaone mmbe= la DesTes is Morida 055-3.

Mile exhitited to the writer a carbor copy of a letter addressed by bim

to CARaY at 747 liempost Street, Derver, Colorazo,

dat:1 525 11, 1952.

Male stated that inastich as CAPEY had sponsored fa-zIA for tbe

PrERA's present ibereabouts.

No, tiliz stated that be had not received

any aster thatsoeter fros lizy up until the present táne.

PALETE ascertained that all PacE PEREIRA las presentiy Liviz at the

Commodora Sotel In Larges C1i7, Missoul, and ca June 25, 1451, 5t2te1

that be bad costacted this incridual by

I-15 forser vile of

PerIli edrised that she had divorced PEElPd 1r. Cargos City, lovasa, 10

1943, after snich be LaTried SORS LOITE CRAWR or Illina, toos ta

divorced in Reno, Horada, in tse Sprinz of 2950.

sto stated that she knew that ?REli lad receatly resestled in Kaisas

This individual advised It. MAiD'E toat PEREIPA was dellritaly not

a good business risk and refered Maline to the Alcats= Botel and too First

lational Bank in Feno, levasa,

in verification of this sitesest.

szted that she did not. knou jives 2icisi las.

Ais told ME. MAiCiE

that she knew that VIC had bought a Cadillac 1a kansas City Ica MORRIS

siltill bit did not say hou sho had received this in'oration.

ADd advised ME. MALONE that PEREIRA did Dot have arytiang and had never

been sartied to anyone so dia have arthing. "

She said that there sas

absolutely nothing to his story that be had 318, 000.00 oosdag as a part

of a property sottlorent in Derrer in doril of this yea.

It is to be noted that the abore individual is the person froa shon PeReIRA

bad told Mrs. JOICE that he was being divorced in Derer in dell, 1951.

"I, MALoNE exhibited to the uriter a certified copy of a docreo of divorce

s5on tho Pirat Judicial District of the Suste of lovadi la and for tha

County of Orasty, Marads, reflecting that All PElZIRd bad suod VICTOR

8715374-26X11

L

DocId: 32327479

Page 16

---

## Page 17

Reléased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Г

5686

і-

•0

EP 87-1532

PeREIRi for divorce and was granted a decree of divorce on July 19, 19lio

It is to bo father noted that la. Milo! ascertaired that at the time

PEREIRA and LEE BEt SaS. JOICS and For sister in the lobby of tha Del

lorto Hotel in El raso on ipril 19, 1952, that FEEla ard LEt had been

in corrsation ith a l. fl of the Hall Motor Canpay, El Faso, Teras,

shortly before scoting the morero

In a subsaquent conversation with Rili,

Fill atrised that no tad act saaza in Chinearua, Herdeo, during 1550,

Uro lilC:3 expressed the opinion that irastich as ili ten boss dimoria

Iron VICHC? ¡225Pá sirco 194l, yet sas mith hia in lexico last 40ar

and is prosently Isciding in farms Citi, Hissouri, maare FEaR: IuS,

to be carried and pick un tre Cadilise,

that it mas entirely possibio that.

¿i a9 mall as LOZAIS Sailü Mas iraolied i5 the corfidence cane being

perpetrated by these individuals.

WilDlE stated that he agcertaired trat Papalai, at the time of his

roasuation at the Del lorte Hotel ea ipril 19, 1951, had given his

here adtress as hit ick Stroet, Deavor, Colorado; that he had traced

tras address and foud tiat this ros the address of the magnes Machine and

511 Supply Compary, Deriver, Coloradoo iccordinali, MiddlE telophoned

So Trigle?, Fresident of the ingres lachire and lill Sapply Coopary, tho

adrised trat Paral: tad worked for his as a salesuan for approdiately

tro ronths about tro jears ago.

wo BaGi? stated that FaRatai mas a lot

of that airt as far as he mas corcerned and had let PlatRa go "because

He pay son to toii."

1ro 701El stated that he iner that i fEElli, former Mife of VICTOR,

Frescrtly or at

one time had oned the Senator Hotel in Reno, Herada, and

kne. that it's tad spent gone tise ir. Denver with VICTO? FEiatri last yearo

tro hiGhen stated that restri and iiii mero runored to bo intending to ba

renarried but so far as he knes, they never had, but he did know that the

had been living together since they more divorcede it one time they oper-

atod the Saint Ftarcis Hotel in Denioro

1r. FAGNER stated that ho knew that

PERERa also had arothor fornor tife in Reno, levada, by when he had a

son six or cight jears old.

LTo blo: exhibited a roport propared by the Credit bureau of Greater

DenVer, Denvur, Colcrado, dated June 2, 1951, On VICIOR EUNUEL PELEIUL,

reflecting the

address of lill fork Strect.

This report roflected only

that PEREIr had boun molcyed about 3 year ago ty tho Wagner dachino

and kill Supply Compary for about sixty days but had been dischargod

bocause of unsatisfactory servicoo

No LILOTE a so exhibited to tho agent a report from the Credit Purcau of

Reno, Novada, dated Juno 27, 1951, corcerning VICTOR PERELU•

This report

roflects that PEErA mas dirorced pros aDi BOZEliN and had 1irod at various

- 16 -

87-15374-26219

L

DocId: 32327479 Page 17

---

## Page 18

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017-

7

Г

EP 87-1512

addresses 1n Peno, though so specifie adatess los firen. the infoention

reflectad in this credit report is es tallows:

Sallejo, Calls.

"Beforo cozing to Peno, subjest was a laborer at the Mare Island

lisral Yards, in Vallejo.

"at the tise of their comicee, Mrs. Bozonen had the lease

ca the Caritoo Rotel Courtai:

Esa & Lounge, which he busbond

Ianages.

I:= later disposed

so this lease and parebased a nes

lease on the Surator intel, tibi. 2aid Sta, in Rero.

scoerding to hor

ststenon:,

of a

busband to maintairo

Sas disaread his 15 dugo, 1943,

and In

Cotober files

suit agairst tin 05. 1 Frozissory Hote of $5000.

stich, of course, she bas tates racovores.

Since that date

mroir? tas been a rosident co Reno interittent a, er dire

503t of his

socat staja it. Fabs he has worked 15 = Bartender.

iencter,

must of the e21a for alanation.

he has rosided in Sammato litere

ve forraa.:

Ron, sacraments flied suit.

and ricar a jadmont but bare never been able to collect.

Subteet ins tarn a 95cigl ta su files orca 2 y22a3.

75. listed 3/0/15 - Nothing Fel

¡ility $24.39 listed 10/6/17 - poid 1/16/5

Jry 957 91 11st9252715. - Yotring peld

Telepoone

16 11et0d 7/13/50 - Nothire read

757 Chrai

siriud 713/60 - dothing paid

Fuel tuy.r.

Dentist i?:

F=lo it?.

inter C/l/hi- wothing pald

sili tria Crazy soct, $33.88 OR 3/15/50

incollectitis

Utilit: -::w - 113.29115t:17/10/50-Hothing palJ."

Tho Crealt Pursu ni Piro also advised diat FERElPA ins the son of E. 'd.

taFaIRi, rastarao S-=-saunte, Califorlo, and that to had a brother,

inEs Pril, die us a contractor la sacrumento.

They adrised there

¿lotine, in the Mar, 1951, teleptara directors for FarElia, nor

a listira, Ir. Cha 1351 elty diroctory Iot the City. of Reno.

No. ILe edilaed that he had found resords of four divorces for VICTOR

EMANUEL, FE-EIRi in tha Stato of Novado.

These are as follous:

Cago 172982 1n thu Firat Judiolal District of the State of Nevada

for the county, go prete the recor

the record reflection a decro

DocId: 32327479 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BP 87-15:2

as divorce granted ADA PERSIRA ITa

AS ILOTOR E. PEREIRA, uhitch decre

on July 19, 1944, at Carson Ostri

¡Cago 115470, filed Han

Distzlot Court of thay

ch 12 119/3140

Leota che

auerded a decree of di

orde

Case 819907 in the Secand Judiolal Diatio

of levada 1a and for the County of lai

ratlects that OSCHOLA MICHELL 1E9 MI

frOM VICTOR ES PERZURA ON Apr I 25, 1946.

Case 1129372 In

o the 3

sadledat 1

dated July 2,

"CITY OF PHOENI

PHOENIX, ARIZONA

". 1, 2,

Vincen

Jiied of Foldes

32

attention: W. F. Eland

Re:

Victor Inamel Persira

James Bradley Loe

"Dear Sir:

*Your letter of June 28, 1951 has been received.

"The flles of this department reflect no arrest on the above subjecte.

They attempted to beat a large botel bill at the Botel Westward Ho, but

when pieled up by our affloars, paid the bill and were not booked thi

wAs as al Apsil 17, 1957.

87 15374- 26X1

L

Docid: 32327179Pate I

---

## Page 20

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

Г

EP 87-1512

"The subjects are known confidence men but ve have not been able to

obtain migs or prints of thei.

"Jheir associates are as sOlIoNai

J. If Dotabe,

FBI 4427053

Sidney' (Doc) Saloway

"Janes Bradley lee drives a 1950 Cadillac bearing 1950 Tessa LIcense WD

3675 or 1951 l1oense H/U 8433, giving his restdenge as Baker Hotel,

Dallas, Texas.

100 maintains an address at 303 Southland IS.

Bullding, Dallas, Peas.

*The above car was acquired fron a Hrs. Van Horman uho lived at Tuna,

off a gambling debt.

1950 Michigan license plate DU 2577. Also in September of 1950, at Tales

Texas and in Hovember,

a cashlar's cbeck in the amount of 32, 000.00 with which to purabase

o1l leases fron an individual known as Saloway who resided on Port

Worth Avenue in Dallas, Peos, When Ise called on Mra. Van Horman in

Tulsa, he was accompanied by Gus King, ubo clained to live at the Se

Marcos Hotel, Phoenir, Arizona, (The San Marcos Hotel 18 aotuall

located at Chandler, Arizona).

So"t

19477

Meli

reports,

record at suer.

"oid King reflects an arrest in Miani Beach, Fis, March 17, 1947,

their FA11514.

*The Pederal Bureau of Investigation maintains an extensive file on

the operations of the above mantioned subjecta uho are all big-time

confidence sen and uho, apparently, have been convicted of only finor

offenses, with no apparent record of the subjects of your inqudry.

"Ifithe occasion varrants an arrest of the subjects, we would appreciate

a copy of their fingerprint cards and photographs.

Very truly yours,

87-11886X19

-19 Dy:.

George U. Young,

Captain, Detact

DocId: 32327479 Page 20

---

## Page 21

Reléased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BP 87-1512

On July 6, 1957,

"There are Inclosed two (2) doemente desert

•(2)

This lotter is very diffleult

"It would be appreciated 1$ your Y.B.I. Le

appreciato the couparteon of Inclosed ban

appropsiate handwriting contalaed 1s the

Chock Plle.

"Ho hate received information that the above Indirtaunt

ure known "confidence man" and that the foBol. bay & fIl

on then. It has been reported to te from Phoendx, Artsom

Police Department that the above Individuala ara associato

of the following known confidence men:

Paul Augustus King --P.B. I. 42794235

Ted Saunders

-

Joe P. Dowding, allas, Jeok' Dowding

- P.B.I, 8477053

J. P. Donahue

—P.B.I. 4427053

Sidney (Doc.) Saloway

terroris

would

1neseinn2

da possible.

in circarmints and fingerprint classification of too com

tioned individuris,

and their reported associates along with

photograpas of eacia."

87-15384-26817

DocTA: 32327379 Page 2T

---

## Page 22

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

BP 8761572

The. Labaratory advised that it had not been po

Ploation secord. for an Indivldual using the nas

having the description as furnabed by the kl l

At the time: the above report was furniahed to

tha Bureau furnahed to the El Paso O8f108 & 00W Of d31

furnissed the fallowing trifornetion:

Hrs. Go ko: HATHBI. He reportaily flew tron Tula to los Ag

this walt and stayed at the Casa Manana in la Jalla, Caltrurn

Mr, VAN HORiÄH advised that sbe is divoroed fran her, foren

and had expected to marry LEE and had given hin money. as followss

September, 1950, at Tulsa, Oklabomas $7500.00, beltered

used to pay a gambling debt;

$4500.00; to purobase 195.

Cadillac,

sotembar, 1950. 8

a be, 2950, at Tone Prior 6 82500.00 to eatent o

November 28, 1950:

sent cashier's check for: $3000.00 on

Tatiaora

Censerce.

Onlebanag

Force"

1o purenais looses it tea

30d 1oos

scath aracuse

Tech.

kaa.

ViLi NORwAY carised that she bad se€u these laseЭ.&ù.&ücÿ

bore the appearance of being genuine.

Mrs. VaN NORMal adrised that on several of his frequent visita: to: bar

parental home in Tulas,

Into

Mrs. VAN NORMAN advleed the Miant Office, borever, at the

her vialt that she had reason to believe that both Ill and tell

• at

that time stoying at the Westwood Hotal in Phoends, Alson. (Tils van

apparently sant to be the lestard lo Hotel), She adrised: that she under

stood that KING and lEE vers expecting to leave Phoenty about the farst

of April for Colorado Springs, Colorado, where they wally stor at the

Cosmopolitan Hotel.

-21-

88-15374-26X1

DocId: 32927479 Page 22.

---

## Page 23

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

Г

EP 87-1512

It is to bo pertioularly soted that Mas. VAN BOrd

C. A. MATHEY, vera showm a jbotograph of PAuli AUCI

12594293, from the Mani Con Men Plle and definitary i

KING as the assocato of JAHis IbE.

Mlo PoT 1947-1948 reflects thet KING and FRED Eit

PBI: 8299/293, vare arrested by the Hand Boach fa

above dato ln comaction udth adolos at the lilati:E

Mand Office advised further that the Grime Survey for the 196

1n Atlanta and Miland of several thousand dollara.

108g aooomplices at that time sure reportedly FRED BROWN, ons ti

LARKE, TEDDY SANDERSON and a Mr. SARDO, all of uhon the irformar

describad as crooked gamblers.

The Mand Office advised that a complaint had been recalved on Junry 13,

1950,

JAMES LEE, ubo had swindled a Mrs. ARANOR RObE

NICHOLS of Port Lauderdale, Florida, out ol $1, 200.00 on How Tessa Era.

of 1950, after "dating" her three days and Inducing her to pata he

jowels to asait him in peying a bed ganbling debt.: Mrs, MicRoLS

at that tine was shown the Mland Con Men Files and positiraly Identified

LEB aB EDMARD S. LYONS, FBI $847380.

At the time of Mes. VAU BORLAVO

complaint against JAMES LET on Merch 26, 2951, she us ahoun a raotograph

of LYONs by the Miand Office but was unable to identify WOlS® photograph

2c

seine the individuri known to far as JAES ia, although Iss. Vel

NoRah and her mother beth noted that the descripiion luricood or 15a

by Kas. NICHOLO as set fortn above fitted iãe to perfectico,

10S is acquainted with and associates with one TED SAUNDERS to Day: Do

idertical with TEDDY SANDERSON, gambler mentionad above, and with " JOCK

LOWDINE, whom Mrs. VAN NOPHAN and her mother mat as one occaston when

in company with LiE.

They were achibited a photograph of JOE P. DUDI ulth allanen "aoCK"

ONDING, J. P. DONAHUS, oto.,

on 2 0 DATa, onto on A 1170, 193) thoto taken to

Mrs. C. A. MATHEY advised that she was reasonably certain that JOE P.

DOWDING 13 Identical ulth "JOCK" DOWDING, In apite of the date of the

photograph which was exhibited to her.

Tids individual was arrested

st Mland, Florida, as a card sharp on Apr1l 30, 1935.

=22=

87-15374-26X1

t/p0N.42:51

DocId: 32327479

Page 23

---

## Page 24

Released under, the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act. of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

Г

SP. 87-1572

understood

MrS, VAN HORMAN acrlood that/SAKES LEE had been 1r

of the time alnoo haleaving bar and sho has hel

that he has been doen in, the coupery of e

was. unable to sunlah but iho, abe adrde

MIS. VAN NORMAN advIsed that in the adadio

LEB VAS SUPP

locate hia there, She steted to rabeogu

that 10050 bad regletired him it the botel as CEo.

explasation as to voy ba had been rogdotered underk

According to Mrs. VAN HORMAN, LIE 10 presently Dago

Fort Houth Avamo, DallaB,

In comestion with the address glven by Mra. VAN HOlAN for

303 southland Illo Ballding, reference bas Pelously.

roport to an addrons of: 302 Southland: Ilfe Bidldtes i

which 1s the address IBB furadabed in andorsing tha 5,000:00

given bin by tes. Jorde.

Saturday, March 32; 1951,

of LiE and KINGs

Liame

Ago

Height

Weight

Eyes

Corplexio

Teeth

Miscellaneouo

Name

Age

Height

Weight

Hair

Byes

Compledon

JAMES ERADLEY LES

35

68

170÷179

BLUe

Darl: 550471,

were lot of hair otl

mauticul, south alagra bag

smiling expression

wears sport clotbes, is excellent

Oler, tRoNa a Breat deal abou

us1o - ai1 types, bas ganglin

appearance, 1s long-legged:

PAUL. AUCUSTUS KISS

50

5022011

200.

Brotin

Gray

Medium

23-

87-15374-26X17

aboutae

DocId:32327479 Page 24

---

## Page 25

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

-7

RV. 2

ER 87-1522

•0

Bad là

Miscallareces

Broad shoulders

Talis Ircessarals, drives old

Indel Prici

Relatires

Sen, "ENSIT IN, address Lice,

allegedly attending Southern

zecist triversity, Dalas, Terase.

Direrced tous tile, Firsingtang

¿latz=a, is 293€0

Roferones is sade to Cianoca City Litter to ilbaguerque dited dily 23,

1951,

10I03 - 7=0721,

IRESTLE RAISIOFRATION CE SINLEY PRESIDES, a COPY

of mrich dos furnisrod to tro Dalias, El Faso, Jeanor and Mansas Citi

cificeso

is letter adrises that taarena Citr 1-l had advised

the Calabana City Girice on dug E, 1951, trat do tad roceired infora-

tion concerning Fasciard 13s srinting laSe CERaUDE JOiCE of

RosTell, list loxaco, cut as $48,000000a

I-l atricod that be mas per

sorally

send rted with Fazai

a= added trat there fare sercral

FREEL 50:5,

all ergaged in confidense raciots. I-l father stated

that it mas sossible tut one or ail of the follering individuals usy

te invelred in the abore spindle mis israta ard laa:

EIS FIlO, ICIeTi si Dallas, Toras, but presertly residing in

Iramos, Colorado

JF.IUiINS

SEE ShOUT

I-l iras = tho opinion that tith tha exception of GUS KIG all of

the indiritials raferred to by hia save in tra past resided in Dallas,

roxas, on are presently residing time, but in all probability mill be

radquarterine In Dorror, Coloraso, Is porpetratire their confidence

FaTEs trI lonor to the ñist Ccasta I-l also stated that dues ariolai

LãE has parchased a run Cadillac isaa sra in La STUDiOR in Kansas City,

Missouri, sinoo tho loss of the above Isntional sonos by l5se JOICs,

and the car 1s roportedly tearing a lassourt licenso at the prosent

tisco

The attendon of all offices 1s called to the stailarity botreon this nano,

do Lo 51-5157, and that of tho traitidual fron mica paralli and ls.

NiCE prochased the abore mentioned 1951 Cadillace

I-l added that he nas unable to fire physical descriptiong et tho

above saicTIod to suspects but statca that 11 inqurles of lrs. JOYCE

1n Rosacll confirned his infomition tiat she had been saindled out of

$48, 000 oD, ho rould be in a position to sorder additional assistan co

1n identifying the Indiriduals responsible for ber losso

87-15374-2681

L

DdcId: 32327479

Page 25

---

## Page 26

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

BP. 8791512

The 11 Paso files contain 'a

AirsI 10, 1912, at Dotrodt,

MATTONAL STOLEN PROPERTY ACT,

Pags thirtoon of this repor

train 14 tita, Toport 99.1

mom to the Detroit Palic

The above roport reflects that into

stomart Avenuo 1n Jackson, Kichgan

Mods

Date of births

Place of birth:

Hed ght:

Height:

Colors

Sox8

Complexion:

Eyeso

Scars and marks!

5980

Brown

v15*

29

30

1217

:00-÷21

The following crininal record was reflected for DOlDINs

Pine, anted us us a Departen, Detore, note

1931; charge, fugitive, no di

HER MAYE

87 - 15374- 26x1

Docid: 32327479* Page 26

---

## Page 27

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

EP 87-1512

JOSTAPH PETER DOLLING,

•Ho dasposition shows.

ingerprinted,

$79969, November 13, 1939;

8 23 93, are 2, vacation cool (bold,)

Plogarprinted by Police Depertent, Spilag Lako, New Jerrory, de

DONDING, A, July 7, 1940s charge, suspiolon

Fingerprinted same date

Fingerprinted by Police Depertment,

DOWDING..

1940, released.

November 22,

days in County Jail.

Fala Beach, Morida, as JOSBPI

F123 Badly

Cs-i73,

Pastray

24,

1241;

7. 9.

Fingerprinted by Police Depa-taeri,

West Fala Boach, Morida,

AS JOSEPH

PETER DOWDRIG, #2106, February 28, 1942; Investigation; Marck 5, 1942,

550, bond.

DOWDING, $14517,

Jackson, Michigan, as J09KP

Pinger printed by Polled Department, fee Sode drunks July 20, 1966, Po G

DOWDING, 417534,

Faid $5.

-26-

87-15374-26X19

-

$1

L

DOcTT: 32327479 Page 27

---

## Page 28

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

SP 87-1512

Fingerprinted by Police Depertment, Washington, D. Go, as JOSEPH PET&!

DOWDING, #108522, Septenber 28, 1947; investigation card skarky Do

disposition shown.

1948, ordered out of town.

Conneoticut..on

PETER DOWDING,

June 23, 1948, for breach of peace. Mo disposition shown.

Fingerprinted by Police Department,

839804,

To 21, 1919; spin to Bedo peong.

Ob1O, as JOHN PETER DOWDING,

The identification record Includes the following:

Fingerprinted as J. P.

Florida,

22 days in jail.

Fingerprinted as JOSEPH P. DOWDING, Albion, Michigan, August, 1939,

D. and Doj released. Adulto Miami, Florida, disorderly conduct, fined

$25.

Fingerprinted sg

JOS. DRAPER, #41449, by Police Departent, Detroit, Michi-

gan, October 13, 1945, for investigation of carrying concealed weapon (gua).

Ingerprinted as JOSEPH DOWDING, $41/49, Police Department, Dotroit

Ichigan, May 31, 1949, general

Investigation; June 2, 1949, dismisser

teaches tad

..=

4d111t

Lnder date

of August?

1951, the Eureau Finished the ortninal record

FBI #2157349.

This criminal rocord reflects

1918, and in

classification was reflected as:

FS

00I 8

The following crininal record vas reflected for PEREIRA:

-27-

A5111

dev rice to at magician Tess

DocId: 32327479

Page 28

---

## Page 29

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

E: 81-1512

U

Pingerprinted by Police Department, Oakland T

PEREIRA: $30018,

poember 12, 29, tree 26 a Cout all m

Pingerprinted by County Ja11, Oakland, Californd

432425, Novenber 20, 1940 charge, volatton,

(cheaks)s on December 12, 1940, 8ives throo

years! probation.

a Buresu furlabed photographs of VICTOR EMANUEL PREKIRA, BACO

dab is being furnished horendth to each office to which le

sat. out.

The bursal aloo furniahed the arindnal record on SAltit

PHL 416762. The following descriptlon was refleuted 2o

Name

SAMUEL, STONELY SOLONIY

Date of birth

August 21, 1893

Place of birth

Portland,, Malne

Calor

White

SeT

Male

Height

Weight

58 17

210

Complexion

Eyes

Light

Blue

Hair

Brown - gres - pats bald

Build

Stout

Scars and marks

Scar under chiny 19 ti

gular is

center foreheads

verttent seir in

Occupation

Residence

PPC

part 21

on right cheex 12" It ear, small

scer forebead conter, hairline scar

over left eye; small dimple n

chin - conter

In 1945, salemen

Ln 19459-48 Hest 91st Stree

17

0 11 8 01 1 Rar 11

I: 28.W-01t

17 28

-28-

88-15374-26X11

10

32327179

L

Page 29

---

## Page 30

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

EP 87-1512

The fallowing criminal record was refleoted for SOLONAY;

Fingerprinted by Police Department,

12349, Ma 19, 1917,,

sentence stayed for three months.

Ingerprinted by Palico Department,

26, To 1 21 are tet, do cott, i diare 8 / 10%

murainted by jolice Departmant.

SULZY, 120083, December 8,

1180 days ruspended May 23, 1922, for vagrancy.

Fingerprinted by

SIDNEY SOLOMON, 455302,

18032, part st, al lago, Factor carate

discharged Pet. asy 2, 1923.

Ingerprintod by U.S. Marshal, Tempe, Florida, as SAMUEL. SOLOMAY, 1L057-2,

January 19,

1938s concealing bankruptcy assets.

February 6; 1938,

ronoved to Southarn District of New York.

#019-299, Jamary 31, 1939; charge, mall.

diapoaltion ahow as pending release to Police Depertaent, Taledo, 0h10,

on charge of obtaining money under false pretense.

ingerprinted by Police Department, New York, New York, an SAMURI SOLOWAY

#B-176849,

January 30, 1939;

charge, fugitive, usdog mallo to defraud

January 31, 1939, turned over to the U. S. Marshal.

Fingerstated,

T508,

Her York,

New York, as SIDNEY SOLOWAY, 126398,

January N, 1239: 929*0:

_ 52??

te

detross.

13176349,

Toledo, Ohio Folice DepartIent.

Flagerprinted by Police Department, Ioledo, Chio, as SAMUEL SIDNEY SOLOWAY

430228, Pebruary 4, 1939, suspicdon, con man, 1 to 3 years State Paleor

-29

87-15374-26X17

L

DocId: 32327479 Page 30

---

## Page 31

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

Г

BP 87-1512

AS STDNEY SOLLONAT, London Prison Parn, London, Onto, 19%9, Obtantas

money under false pretense, served ten months.

Plogerprinted by Ve 8. Marshal, Calumbes, On1o, ae5

Jamary 7, 1947, ustog malla to derraud.

#C-21-341, October

31, 19411 concealing assetS In

1947, ons year and sloven months.

Finger pristed, Faderal. Detention Headqueraters, How York, New York, aa

#61081, November 24g

bankruptey, 1 Jr. 11 months;May 31, 1943, discharge by condittonal

New York, New Jork, defraud.

Fingerprinted by Police Department,

B- 176849, September 8,

coated Pdare? Patantan Teadorters, New fork, Rew York, 18

24S:CA

cherze pail

Maccattion

esonor i, 29i6y

is charted to

Caderal Corsicio.

Institution,

inabary Cardestrent.

Fingerprinied,

Federa: Correctional Instilation,

AS SIDNEY SOLONAL,

etc.

FLorida, as SIDHEY SOLOSAY,

#34356,

Jamary 10,

U.S. Penitentiary, Atlanta, Georgia.

The Bureau furnished photographs of SAMUEl SIDNEX SOLOMaY,

a copy of which 15 being unished to each ote so torch lead leade7676 hemat

87-15

371-26X19

•xmititeo..

DocId: 32327479 Page 31

---

## Page 32

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Г

EP 87-1512

On August 2, 1951, the Burena fursdabad a copy of crindrel

PAUL AUGUSTUS RTIG, FBI 12594295. KIHO 1s described ae

Collare

Fame

COLOr

Зех

Height

Wed gest

Compleadon

Byes

Hair

Scars and marks

*220

PLB

С Н

Birth

Residence

FPC

over sight aye and on nos

Septerber 28,

1896, Berg, Tea

In 1947 Hotol Hamy Grad

2.0

19

I 17 A IO

The fallouing crintnal record was furmished for KING:

152825, June 3, 1940; charge S.U.C.G.C.-DC.

Fingerprinted,

Anger in 19 2, 1ca Be Done t, Atlanta, Soy 23, 1922

122 a 5i, Muz

Fingerprinted, Puton Co Bor Co To Alta, coa, a death,

six ninths

Fingerprinted, Folice securrent, Alämi teaos,

Florida, as 2A0t

Asuamus

*E0,

FA 21514, Wach 19,

1917; vagrancy and irvestigation; March 28,

1947, dise. rec. prosecution.

ingerprinted, Police Depertment, New York, New York, as PAUL, A. RING

#B-256948,

Septenber 11, 194?; charge, Conspiracy. Bulbery 1897 Fl (jack).

No disposition shou.

Fingerprinted,

Wh, Pikers Jaland, Hou Xort, Now York, as PacIno,

4315945, Jane 23,

1948; consplracy -SSM, 8500 or 30 days and 39 days.

Photographs of PAUL AUGUSTUS KING were furnished by the Bureau and a

copy is boing furnished to each office to which leads are hereir

set out.

85-15374-26X1

DocId: 32327479 Page 32

---

## Page 33

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Г

5666

Г

22.

EP 87-1512

The facts in this case wore presented to Asslatant NAttere

HOLVES. BEENAKS on Jely 30, 1957, and a complants at

against subjects PERERIA and LiB and marranta te

and LEB with volation of Section 371, Title: 28% Ux

PEREIRA and IBE conspired to obtala tone sno pres

00. Talue of-nare that 85,000,00; ant did tran

commerce in violation of Section 2314 of Titla 18

The complaint farther chargen sabjects of violation of Beatl

on, 231k

Fitle 18, Do So Code, in that IBE and PIRLIRA caused to be trunopa

in interstate comerce property over the talre al 10, 000:00 one

Paso, Pexas, to Los Angeles; Californda.

The complaint forther charged volation of Section 1405 Flee,

Jo Sa Codo, in that subjects devised and intended to devise arm

nd artice to defraud votin; and for the purpose of executime

artarice caused to be placed in an sutharised depository for na

matters a letter to be sent or delivered by the post orfico establi

ment of the Undted States.

Fugititive Porn letters were farrarded to the Bureau.

On lugast 9, 1951, the writer interviered the victis in this case, ra.

HERTRUDE Jo JOYCB, and her sister, kirs. BATHRYN JOrNER, In Bl Paso,.

Texas. At that time ls. JOYCB exhibited to the writer chronological

account of her associations with subjecta PERBIRA did: IEBa Thia account

which had been written out originally in handwriting by urse Jarck und

is being maintained by her is as follows:

"April 19 - Thursday - Met Vic and Jumy. Vlo said he was: from Dewver

15 Bee Model Pusinese.

cunt to rossello

April 23 - Honday - Vic shered se letters signed with the seal of the

StuDe of Colorado reconnending hin and a group of men for their

ability and integrity.

"April 24 - Tuesday - Vic receivod a talegran stating ida divorce tros

Ide would be granted on April 2th and sottlent of ble saset.

would be paid lay 28th, amounting to 348, 000.00 pet to Vico Vio

told me he gave Ada two hotels, stocka, etc.

Bapril 25 - Mednesday - Jimmy borrored 85, 000,00 to put FiC ja on a

011 losse, to be paid back May 28th.

87-15374-26X11

L

DocIa: 320274792 Page 33

---

## Page 34

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

7

7

EP 87-1512.

"April 26 - Thursday - Jiny cashed check at First National Banke

ROSWOL.

Obtained 11, 000.00 cash and & 84, 000.00 Caahdente Crock

Hamy left for Lubbock to meet sidney, Jimmy called Katharing no

Iubbock that righte

"April 29 - Sunday - Vic took me to El Paso in Juny's car

"April 30 - Monday - Iny cashed cashier's check and arrived la Bl

Paso Via plane that afternoons

"May 2 - Hednesday - Vic and I returnod to Roswell from El Pasos

Blay 3 - Thursday - I had a birthday party for Vico Mary of sy Orloodo

invited net hin and were favorably impressed.

"Way 1 - Friday - Vic and I went to Wichita Falls, first stop on trip

wnich Vic planned, that me might becone better acquainted. sist

before leaving Vic asked ne for 81, 000.00 to apply on the trip

as he was running

short of cash. I moto a check and Mr. Cox, y

neighbor, cashed it for me.

"May 12 - Saturday - Jimmy came to Tichita Falls to join us for some

parties and the weekend. He flew in from Dallas.

May 15 - Tuesday - Jimmy drove with Vic and me to Dallas Vic and'I

stopped at the idolphus Hotel.

Jinny joined us several nights on

parties with some of my friends.

nor 19 - Friday - 7ie and I vent to Hot sprines, Arkansas, Arlington

315%

-i this Citra Caled Ceo L016121012

saying he a

E Trulee araciable.

Vio asiced so about purchase of the cars I

advarco noney to be paid back day 20the

Lay 22 - donuay - vinry drove Vic and no to little ilock more ie got

a plane

for Kansas City.

Jay drove my car back to Rosall

"May 25 - Friday - Married, Suelbach Hotel, Kansas City, Missourt.

"May 26

- Saturday - I reveived $6956.55 check for sale of securities.

Vic took check to buy cadillac.

"Jay 28 - Monday - Vic called E. i. ilson, Ft. Forth, about hotel

in Gruenville, Texas.

Vic got Cadillac fron Morris.

- 33

394-26x19

DocId: 32327479 Page 34

---

## Page 35

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

5686 KG

Г

7

EP 87-1512

"Yay 29 - Tuesday - Loft Kansas Clty Sor Dallas SHe MA

Vic and I stayed Huskoged, Oklahoma tbat idght

nay 30-10 day nared Datato Hore Total

31 - Thursday -Vio went to Pto Morth to: 800 lil

mison Cane back that evening saying that he bad sec.

option on the Tahington Hotel In Greenville, Texass He had

called his lawyer and secured 82,500;00 which he had peid on

deal The rest tus to be paid by June I5tho. Tio asked ne or

about $35, 000.00 to complete the deal. I think ha and the

would cost around $78,000.00. later he said $32,000.00 woul

the deal. He sald that after me arrived in Rosell

sane Yod in Arden, chas me vi and I left Dallas for

Toxas that night.

"June 3 - Sunday - irrived in Rostell.

"June L - Monday - ittended final ball - NollolloTo Vio, Ratherine and Lo

"Juno 2] - Honday - Vic called Do Jo Wilson, Ft. Torth, adicing toxtenados

on hotel deal for one week

for $35,286.78, which I gave to Vic.

or 35 2 8, are go to vo, i got re To honda me 20.

So Shale

2on2

code.

ment beg:

Pricesc

ice intin

Vie

said ho had signs ine release on his money

that had been tied up in his davorce preconding and ever thing ras D.!.

"June 1? - Sunday - utined to Rostella

"June 12 - Tuesday - Vir and Jimmy left for Texas to plek up done quick

profit o1l leases,

Ther left at 5 dollo ani imes to retura al, 2 pall.

that afternoon.

They dir not return.

I also called the Stare National Bank of Fl Pasc

and Vic had draw the money

They. seid he only had a small

account left.

He never had the 348,000.00 that ho told me ale

Also I received a mysterious phone call fron a man at my. home.

was a local call.

"rune 22 - Friday - I received a gif -T 5374- 26X1

Kig

Docta: 32327779

L

Page 35

---

## Page 36

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

7

Г

RP 87-1512

I So JOYCE stated that after she and PERBIRA arrived in Kanse city

souri, on May 21, 1951, and decided to get married on kay 25thh 28n

they called her sister, Miss JOYNER, and LEB at Rostell and TaB and sane

MIBS JOYNER agreed to come to the wedding in Kansas Gity which, thie dada

LEE and Hiss JOYNER remained in Kansas City until after the paschang of

the 1951 Cadillac by PEREIRA as mantloned herein and then druyd bal.

Kansas CIty, Missourt, to Dallas, Texas, with PEREIRA and lira Just In

the 1951 Cadillaco

HrS. JOYCB stated that LEB as preseat at the utors

mobile comparty orned by HORRIS STUDNA at the time of the purchaos ot the

Cadillaco

She stated that STUDNA and LEB pretended not to koor one 1

another and PERRIRA introduced IRE to STUDHA on this occasiona trea

that during the negotiations for thie

CorN po date on an the day on that occasion STunNa told Lei,

you should buy an airplans with all the hoppdng around that you do.

indicating previous acquaintanceship with Lab.

she statiod that later

on in the day STUDNA learned that IlB and Miss JOYNER WEre impposedty

engaged to be marrled and he asked Hiss JOINER, "How did you ever land

this wild buckaroo?

Mrs. JOYCE stated that she was pasdalve that arudle

and LEt were previously acquainted with one anotber.

• Hrso JOYCE stated that after her marriage to PEREIRA in Kansas City on

May 25,

1951,

that they k ft Kansas City on lay 29th together with

LEE and Hiss JOINER and arrived in Dallas, Texas,

on Hay 30, 1951, where

the party stopped at the Baker Hotel.

AIrSa JOYCB stated that on the

follordng day, May 315t,

PERBIRA told her that be had to go to Fio Forth

to see his broker,

E. J. FILSON, concerning the option on the hotel.

He returned to the Baker Hotel that evening and told her that he bad

paid down $2500.00 on the option and the remainder of the money had to

be paid by June 15tho

HrS. JOYCE stated that 1t was on that acoasion

that PEPERA told her that the fashington Hotel at Greenville would cost

1:9,000.00

told nor char no dad tos 349,000,00 zich mas scapese?

1: 25 erecared Sy time dram a for dogs dad that li che carica bigs

1 mika. to the purchase of tie tobei

ine doney,

bout 330,000.00, that the tro of thon could then hare an

assured anecdo for Lite of approrimately $2,000.00 per montho

in told leg, JOYCE that he rad a nas in Derves, Colorado, by the ran

f nougH who would run the hotel for then and that ho knew. DOUD tas:

good hotel man inasmuch as he had managed several hotels fos PERSIRA

previously.

He stated he had contacted DOUd and that dould had agreed

to come to Greenville and operate the Mashington Hotel.

It is noted parenthetically that at the time of Mrs. JOYcEls visit to

i Paso on August 9, 1951, to see her attorney, at which time she was

interviered by the reporting agent, that she brought a number of clothes

-587-15374-26X1

DocId: 32327479 Page 36

---

## Page 37

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107

Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

C

EP 57-1572

which had been left at her home by PEREIRA and INto It 1a particalia.

notod that mong the clothes was a Royal Stetoon gap brin hat fran

Broadway at First AvAIlo, Denver, Calorado»s

in the seatband of this hat were the initials anitato

In connection with the information previously set out in this ser

PEREIRA phoned Ft. forth, Texas, in the pretense of calling bla attorne

one E. J. ALSON, relative to the mueks axtenston of the option on the

Tashington Hotel in Greentille,

It is noted that the photostatio; copy of

a decree of divorce granted THBIA DAY PEREIRA IION VICFOR SHANUEL S

PERBIRA 11 Reno, Nevada, dated March 13, 1943, reflocts that the attormen

fOr THRIMA DAY PEREIRA on that occasion was one BUERSON J.: HILS0H,: Bag.

H198 KATHRYN JOYNER, sister of Victim, advised that on elther Apral 23

or 24, 2957, she went to the First National Bank of Rosall with: DEB

at which time LiE cashed a $100.00 chock drawn on a Dallas bank which

she believed she remembered to be the Dallas National Bank. She statod

further that on about June 9, 1957, LEE wrote another check payable to

the Continental Airlines at Roswall, Hen Medco, for about altold, wulch

chock also was dram on a Dallas bank. He told her at this time that be

had a balance of 812, 000.00 1n his bank in Dallas.

Roference is made to Kansas City teletype to El Paso dated August 4j 1957,

in which the Kansas City Office advised that MORRIS STUDNA, automobdle

dealer in Kansas City as mentioned above, advised he had sold PERBIRA

a 1951 Cadillac 62 Club Coupe, Motor No. 516210296. STUDNA adviaod the

ansas City Office on this occasion that he had recalved a telephon

a11 2oa King's Court, Columbus, Ondo, on about July 2oth fron PEREIRA

mira arised tons Easte me supposedly larico at

00: 01569

he cincinat oiiico by coletres august Sy

sarased

that

inveStigativa

it King's Court,

Colurous,

Chis, ecclinted that XICToR prend tad rented

an aparteent at that establishmant on July 2,

1951, 'and had left his mife

and three year oid child his 1951 two

toned blue steel top convertible

Cadillac bearing Oklahoma License 1-98838.

The Oklahoma City Office by teletype dated August 7, 1952, advised that

the Tax Coumissioner's Office, Oklahona Citte reflects that VICTOR PERRY,

residing Slarvin Hotel, Oklahoma City, had

regiatered a 1957 Cadillao

coupe, Motor Nc. 5162-10296,

Title No.

D939540, on June 21; 1951, and

was issued 1951 Oklahona License 1-98838.

The Cincinnati Office advised

that this license number was identical with the one appearing on the car

parked in front of the King's Court ipartment in Coluabuse .

- 36-

87-15294-29X1

DocId: 32327479

• Page 37

---

## Page 38

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

7

BP 87-7572

By toletype dated August 7, 1951, the Salt Là

that FIREIRA had martled BONKIE CRANOR, Reno

a ta do ento chat bert a bore to

contant her untal, Chitstmas, 1950, at

Lotters to her and at lie request a

Reno to joda PEREIRA in Kansas City,

ascertained that the Individual living

Ohlo, as sat forth above, was BONHIS CRA

at

Richlier Botel 1s Quebec, Canada.

The Boston Ordio advised by teletype dated August 2 1951 CAM

boan ascertatred that PEREIRA and IZ% had left Quebea,

New York City where DRAER was to sall on August 9, 1957, for Pdo de:

sanedroo

The New York Office advised by teletype dated Angust 11, 1951, of the

apprehension of LEE and PEREIRA in New York City on that dato.

i ten tape dated August 11th the New York City Derico advined that

subjecte

arraigned on lugust lith before U. So Cound sadoner

Ence Flirt, Sauthern Distased ST Mr Lot, eod panaaded to the Paderal a

Rube sidstention in

lies

aro, 000 no bord eacha

rearing tor majesta

sat for August 20, 1951.

Er teletspo on the

same date the New York Office was adrised that

Assistant D. So Attorney HOLVEY WILLINiS, El Paso, had reconnended a

$10,000.00 bond each for subjeats PEREIRA and LEE returnable instanter

Pl Paso,

fartardedo

Texas, and they were advised that cartl fled papera vere being

By teletype dated August 4,

1957, the Oklahona City Oftloo advised

the Albuquerque Office that a Mrs. BROTIN and a liS. WORN were prepenti

PEREIRA and IBE and that les. BROIN was reportedly in love 1d th subject

ISE.

87215374 - 26X11

DocId: 32327179

Page 38

---

## Page 39

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

7

/260

backel

BP 87-1512

The Cincinnati Office advised by teletype datod Augast 91195ith

BONNIB CRANOR mentioned above appeared at the Columbos, Ondo Hestd

agency on that date in a hysterioal condition and demanded tockr

the FBl was looking for PRiBIRAN During, the, course of the, 1a

she advised that PERRIRA bad called her at Reno, Nevada, In tune

and requested that she jotn him in Kansas City, Missourt, sothet the

could be remarried, and that they had gone to Colmbus short isther

after at which tine firkula had loft and had not returnade During the

courge of this interiden she exhibited to the agento & telegram recedved

at king's court addressed to do Be

FE DOM HUGH Do Suiti o1 the ELri

of Allen and Street Attornays, Dallas,

Texaso

She advised that tho lotters had aso been received for IB at tho

Columbus address from the Jew Mirn of Allen and Street, Dallas, Texas.

BONNIE PEREIRA advised that she had called HUGH. Bo STREEI In Dallas t

requesting information regarding PERRIRA and LEB, at which time: StREt

had advised her to return to Renoe

The New York Office advised by taletype dated August 11, 1951, that a

marriage license in the possession lo subject BRADING reflected the.

arriage of JAMEs B. LEE to MARCARET BERra, age 21, at Durant, OkLahoma,

on June 2i, 1951. BRADIND claimed his wito 18 presently resdding: at

Richland, Texaso

BRADING also stated he had approsimately $500,00 10.

the Dallas National Bank, Dallas, Texas, under the nane of JAKES BO LEB.

snother chock book not reflecting omership contained checks Drow the :.

Valley National Bank of Phoenix, irizona. A ticket stub, Nos k3573,

from the Hanna Parking Garage Compary, 12th at Chester, Cleveland;

Chio, was found in the possession of BRIDING who adrised that this

cicon mã curtis 1950 Cadazoe sudan deich ms prescatly stazed at

30178a

inden abe te durist il, luSt, Socolad ngent In Crarge CHAPLIS NEIS

* the Denver Office

tolephonically contacted the El Faso Office and

advised that GUS KING mentioned herein as an associate of subject

FIRED mas presently in the lenorial Hospital, Cheyeme, Tyardog,

, where

he had been confined with a hoart attack since

the niddle of July 1957.

SiC TERKS further advised that SAMUEL SIDNEY HOLDAY, also Deitlonod as

a possible subject in this case, was presently registered at the Coo

mopolitan Hotel in Denver where he had been since August 1, 1951,

By lctter dated August 4, 1951, the illani Office advised that their

files indicate that PERETRA, LEE and associates mentioned in this

report were possábly known to Minneapolis Confidential Informant I-l

87-15374-26X1

L

DocId: 32327479

Page

39

---

## Page 40

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

7

Г

BP 87-1572

"ENCLOSURES&

-PENDING-

87815374- 26x1

•1222342

L

I DocT₫ 32327479

Page

401

---

## Page 41

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

EP 87-1572

MISLRATIVE PAOL

TRADS

THE ALBUQUERQUE OFFICE

At Santa Fe, Her Mexico

R111 interview kirs. BROil, as set out in Oklahoma City teletige of

August 4, 1957, relative to hor kooledge of and assocation with aubfoe

IPto

TEB. CLEVELAND OFFICE

At Cleveland, Oblo

will at the Bama Parking larage Company, 12th and Chester, examine the

1950 Cadillao parked at tho above establishment under ticket stub''

"o, 43573. As set forth heren it 1s believed that this Cadillao mas

the one purchased by If? id th the money which he sidndled from krse::

VAN NORMAN, Palsa, Oklahoma.

#ill advise regarding the registration and motor number of the above

Cadillaco

miil concuct appropriate investigation at Lull Blectrio Bullding fer

any partinent inforsation concurring PEREIRA and lEE and otbar subjeots

mentioned in this report for background information and in an attempt

to identify the confederate posdag as Be Jo WIlSON.

Till at the Western Undon Telegraph Company attent to locate a copy of

the telegran sent to VICTOR PERBIRA, Li01 Bast 11th Street, Rosali,

New Mexico, on 6-13-57, purportedly signed by Bo jo HUSH, in en

attenpt to ascertain the identity of the sender of this talegran

- 87-15374- 26x1

Docitl: J2327179

---

## Page 42

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

EP 87-1512

AININISTRATIVE PAGE

LBADS (Coistd)

1111 at the Texas Hotel check the registration records for thes

of april, May and June, 1951, for registration of subject laß and

assoctates mentioned herain.

It is known tbat KÄTHRIN. JOXHER trote

to IKB in May, 1951, in care of the Texas Hotel.

At Dallas, Texas

Mll chock the field offico indices and other pertinent sources a

normation for any data concerning PEREIRA, BRADIO and assoddata,

mentioned hereino

It will be recalled that Oklahoma City I-l advised that PEREIRA and

other members of this same gang fornerly resdded at Dallas, Texase

#Ill at the Dallas National Bank check the records for any account of

moneys or safety deposit box in the nane of JilES B. LER or EUGENE

BRADING®

Hill chock the field office indices and other pertinent sources of

infornation relative to HUGH B. STREET, attorney for PERBIRA 89 mantioned

Il considered advisable will interview STRist relative to blo

acriedes dd and asscciation with Fasemia

to panted te dant

up the fictitious optica en

too desmancoon Hotel as decorilles

Peera Se

for E0137a,

and EAT

nave been the indiridual posing as to jo TIlsoN,

Fi. North, Texas, as set forth herein.

Hill check the appropriate records for ayy information concerning any

marriage or divorce for BRADING or PeREIRA in Dallas Countye

#11l at 302 Sourbland Life Building conduct appropriate tivestigation in

an attempt to obtain any pertinent information concerning BRADING Or

PEREIRA or associates mentioned herein.

It 1s recalled that ERADING

in endorsing the 85, 000.00 check given him by lisa JOYCE, gave 302

Southland Life Building as his adüress.

87615374- 26X1

DocId: 32327479

Page 42

---

## Page 43

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

27 67-1522

ADIESEL 32 3.35

FITS (esste)

2:51,

and sectarates mortirred bereiro

Tall conduct appropriate intostintira to detorine mother surfact

ErDIn: is mara to tave evor

It is recallcd

tist rate briss code corried by 25a trate fos printed 9263S B. 122,

richlandy Estra.

àg funtie sit out aoore E2DIlG abrised won his apprenorsion that has

mi, 1a2:2

E302%, 290 21,

Fis intritual sarao do located and intersioned

in sitaid einooming tur knoxlodes of and associatina rith subject 153a

1 1ubece, Fares

mula chaor one recerts if the leading borels for ridiamation of las,

Petront infirmaticro

It is ecosiled trot raca lia recoired

the 05,000000 fra lase

joica, that co tila hur unar no tad to sect

"Splar in bubock ard that on 4-28 5l de cashed a du,000.00 cashieris

crock at the First tatianal Barag Lubbcco

1c23, 502g

xi1l at the Techington Rotel conduct appropriate imestigation to estab

Ish the taee that inebu never had an aption to big this hotch but

usod tris pretergo as part of his sohere lu defraud lisa joyceo

THE DEVEL OFFICE

it BopycE, Calerada

111l chock ero fioli offico indices ont alber appropriate sources for

ory portinone tri-mation concerrane TERená, LEE and associatus mer

tioned toroine It till be recalled that-i-t, to pereirally knary

6,4-4:00X1

100

L

DocId: 32327479 Page 43

---

## Page 44

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

Г

7

Г

EP 87-1572

AHINISTRATIVE E. CE

IBADS (Conta)

PERRIRA, has*ad

sed that thia gang mar

Dentar.

M11l at the Bol.O.B. Lodge #17 Interview WoES PureS

for any pertinent Informaton concerng PBUBIRA, PEREIRA LOOtE Lo

bo a member of this lodge and forturded a check fat 818÷00 mi3054.

PITT fOr lodge dues.

W1ll check the flold office Inadces and other pertinent sources ot

information for. background data concerning D. M. CARBIE 747 Hempo

Streat, Denver.: CARET 15 knon to bate bion, PERBIRA la spouse for

menbership in B.P.O.in Lodge $17 and refused to answer the lotse

formarded lan by attorney MALONE.

Il doened advisable the Denver Office will Interview. CArisY for per.

tinent information concerning PEREIRA.

Fill at the Hagner Machine and kill Supply Company, Will York Streety

InterveN MT. HAGNER, Presdient, for ary information in hia possesalon

concerning PEREIRA.

$111 chock the appropriate marriage and divoron records la Danver for

any record of narriages or divorces on the part of LEE ory PEREIRA.

1I1 check the redstration records of the leading hotels in Dever fas

castrati::

Is and associatas montioned heroin during 1951.

al an the dartere Write Teleg opt Cerpary choco the seconds 1os

1751,

in an attent to locate a copy oi the tolugan sunt to.

vic.on Finstu, 40l Test lith Strect, Rostell,

New Mexico; during this

period in an attempt to identify the sender of the telegram. It will be

recalled that irs. JOYCe read tro tolegran received by PEREMA, which telo

gran stated that PEREIRA's divorce would be fina) on April 28, 1957;

and that he would get $48,000.00 settlenant.

Will conduct appropriate investigation at the Sto Francia Hotel and the

Senator Hotel, Denver, for background information on PEREIRA and asso.

ciates. is set forth in this report, these hotela were formerly operated

by ADA PEPEIRA, fOrMer WiFe Of VICIOR PEREIRA.

8715871-26x11

L

DocT

Pare

14.

---

## Page 45

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

BP 87-1572

STRATIVE PAGE

TEADS:

11 through the Investigation set for ab

OUG" WhOM PERKTRA told ters. JUICE was daling

to operate the Washington Hotal.

It 18 polnted out that this induldual maybe identreal idch

of the hat in PERBIRA possesson having the 1nd tale "DeJARA

in the sweat bando

At Grand lake, Colorado

#111 condiot approprdate investigation 1a an

ot to ascer tat.

whether Ift was staying in the Crand lake area

set forth heroin in the intervien kith Irs: VAN HORNAN

during tuly, 1950, daug

At Colorado Springs, Colorado

Dor

OFFICE

it Lonsire, Michigan

s111 check the records of the Yotor Vehiclo Registration Department

concerning the identity of the person to than 1950 Michigan Idecrise

DU 2577 was issued as

set forth in the interley isth Meso VAN NORMAN

mentioned herein.

At Jackgon, Michigan

111] conduct appropriate investigation to attoupt to ascertain the preo-

ant whereabouts of JOB P. DONDING,

associate of subject PERBIRA. It

will be recalled that the report of SA will mentioned herein reflecte

that DOWDING's father lives in the 800 block of stewart Averme,

Jackson, kichigan.

8+W55394-26X11

Docid: 92321

*Pare 15

---

## Page 46

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

EP 87-1512

ADSIHISTRATIVE PAGE

IBADS (Contd)

THE KANSAS CITY OFYICE

At Kansas City, Missourd

7122 chock the Miald office indices and Police Department secarda

concerning MORRIS STUDiA,

used car dealer, telaphone Gladstone 3714;

from whom PEREIRA purchased 1951 Cadillac

62 club coupe, Motor No.

516210296, tero-tone ilue convertible, on 5-25-57.

STUDNA and R. I. JETT, employed by STUDNA, should be rigoronaly liter

viered concerning information regarding PERRIRA. It should be: borne li

and that STUDNA 18 the pergon who telephoned PERBIRA at Hot Springs,

Arkansad, as set forth herein concerning the availability of the above

Cadillaco

Will question STUDNA concerning his previous association with subject

Will at the Meuhlebach Hotel check the registration records fron

January, 1951, to present time for

ary information concerning subjects

PEREIRA, LEE, and

other associates mentioned herein.

T1l check the field office Indices and the Police Department records

¿omer ate of VICDOR PORETRA

Tragmuch as thare

are tastestions

that A2e Far bo involved in this matter with pagers

1: no reason exists for not doing s5g

will interrier ddi rEla,

-regently residing Connodore listel, jansas City, Kissourio

Till conduct appropriate irvestigation to deterine the identity of

LOUIS J. MAYUCH.

It will be recalled that the bank statement of

PERETRA at the State National Bank, Bl Paso, ratlects that PEREIRA

issued MYUCH a check for $100.00 on 5-25-51, which check uag. cleared

through the Merchants Bank, Kansas City, Missourt, on 5-26-57.

At Topeka, Kansas

Mill at the Hotor Vehicle Registration Bu tau check the records for

registration of ary automobiles sold to ?7 lIRA and LEB during 1950-51.

5.45.

11-26%10

15. Fri

DocId: 32327479

Page 46

---

## Page 47

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

EP2871512

ADONISTRATINE PACE

LEADS (Conta)

In Konsaa. Cityo

THE LITTLE ROCK OFFICE

At. Hot SprInge, Arkansas

win check the records af the Arlington Hotel for the nonth of Mayo 195%

carcerning the reglatration al PETiRIRA and Meso dorCEo

Will check the recorda of leading hotel in Hot Spings, Arkannast, Soe

the period of June, 1950.

It will be recalled that Miso VAN NORMANE

states that she first not LEB 1n Hot Springs, Arkansas, 1nudune, 2950.

atra horse showo:

THE MIAHT OFFICE

Miami o Florida

the fleld pffice indings and other partinent sources" or

infortation for ary pertinent Information relative to subjects LEg

and PiraTA or men set forth herein as know associates of LEE and:

PEREIRAO:

At: Fort Lauderdale, Florida

1l intervier irs ELLINOR hOWS NICHOISn detat polas ve to her

knowledge of and association with subject LeE, Ln an attempt to secure

background Information

86515374626X14

Doc

---

## Page 48

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

F3 4791512

U

MUERIE BE

B5S (Conta)

CHENGIES CETICE

# MEd 2218, 1520280%3

212 121186: C20RE

111 arcaghly intimier saodects C251% and Erabita da tire ansis ei

information

aut

firon in tris riperte

tom tend should bear in zind

furnished to BiC

eust ties

ansociates kilo and Scratco presentg in the Scores territory

arilable for intervier baould irfomatica do cosclepad te

assication with those ironicals by Tarama end 200115e

2E CRUSE CITY CARICE

22222/ 2a

detail a motive to her anorleine or and acsociation rich subject miEs

EXADUR: 153 and GUS AIG.

it Calabaza Citi, Orlahaza

Interant i-l for Cotailed Inforastion concertire subicots

L73 and i ER as well is thoir associates as eat forth in celanca

City lotter to albuquerque date: 7-23-51.

a1ll at tra Tax Concissionores Sifice chock the remistration st tho

1951 Cadillac, Actor No. 516210295,

rocistore! ly fElD on Jare 22,

1951, in an offert to ascertain the identity co ta precisia ammer os

thas automobilie It 19 procurad that the certificato co title previously

on this sub-mobile se the timo that Oklahona Cortificati of title ras

issued will roflect the prostite omer'a maroo

8715884-2011

10

10:

L

DocId: 32327479

page "Y8

---

## Page 49

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

Г

BP 87-2522

WENTENRATIVE PAOR

LEADS (Conta)

It 1s recalled that victim stated at the time o

automobd le: that 1t bore 1951 Kansas Louse, lev

that efforts made by Attorney HALONE as set forth;

registration in Kansas for this autorobile in 1952, and the po

edsts that tids automobile may. be used to sell repestedia

this gango

will at the Starvla Hotel obtain and forward to the Bl Paso of

photographio copy of the regiatration card for mbject, PIESTRA

registered at this hotel on June 20, 1951, under the none or vin

PERRIO

THE PROENIX OFPICE

At Phoards, Arizona

#1]] at the Hestward Ho Hotel chock the registration records since

301-57 for all dates of registration for PERKIRA, IRB, KINO, SOLOMAY

DORDING and SANDERS as set forth in this report, and conduat appropstati

Investigation relative to association of above individualee .

Will check the records of the Phoenix PD and interview uOROs so Youd,

Captain, Detective Division, for any information in their poasession

oncerning marriages and

awerees in the part of lie of PerkIRa.

# S0-288022 421223

1111 on the basis of infornation furnished herein by. Urse VAN NOTA

condact appropriate investigation at the San Marcos Hotel for ary

pertinent information concerring LEE or KING.

THE SAN DIEGO OFFICE

it la Jolla, California

Till at the Casa Manana Hotel conduct appropriate imestigation to

determine whether subject LEB or other subjects in this cage were

staying there in approximately July or August, 1950.

88815371-26 x10

L

Doora: 923

---

## Page 50

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

7

Г

ER 87-1512

ADMINISTRATIVE: PACE

LEADS (Conta)

THE SIN ANTORIO OFFICE

At iustL's_ Tex18

will check ths records of the stata Motor Veldalo Registratton Buren

far any

autonobile registered by LEt or PERMIRA during 1950 or 1957

It will be rocalled that the Phoenix PD has adviaed that when IBB was

In Proenix in April, 1951, he was driving a 1950 Cacillao bearing elther

1950 Texas Ilcense WD-8675 or 1951 License HU-8433.

THE SAN FRANCISCO OFFICE

At San Francisco, California

Will check Meld office indices for ary pertinent information concerning

PEREIRA and associates mentioned herein.

At Sacramento, California

Will check PD records and other pertinent sources of information for

baskground information on FaREIRa.

It wdll be

recalled that the Credit Bureau of Reno Hevada, has advierd that

TOTA formerly resided Sacramento, California, and that PERBTRA!8

catter? to

11zê chock the records

a2 the Credät Bureau and the Police Department

ice ary pertinent information concerning FREIRA.

THE SALT LAKE CITY OFFICE

At Reno, Nevada

"ill at the Credit Bureau secure complete background Information cor

cerning FEREIRA and conduct appropriate investigation based thereo

for background information concerning PEREIRA.

It will be recalled

that the Credit Bureau of Reno has advised that PERBIRA has been know

to them since early 1940.

8711587126711

L

DocId: 32327479

Page 50

---

## Page 51

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

BP 87-1512

RATIVE PACE

IRADS (Contd)

#1ll at the Pirst National Bank check the bank records far any Intaruitia

concerTin? FIMO? PEREIRA.

5111 cacá the curt records concerning PEREIRA's divorce Iron OSCEOL

NICHELI, PETTLIA, THELA D. PERKIRA, In an attempt to locate, these e

former river,

" the arent thetr present whereabouts is ascertained

ppropriatu Loads should be set out to have then intervened concert

PEREIRin

11 conduct appropriate investigation at the Carlton Bar, the Senat

tal, and the Alcatraz Hotel for infornation concerning PERETRI

#1ll secure all available data on lo J. HILSON, Attorney, who represetited

THEIMA DAY PEREIRA at the time of her divarce from VICIOR PEREIRA OD

March 13, 1943.

It will be rocalled that PEREIRA used the name of. Be do

WILSON as an attorney at Ft. Morth, Texas, in a furtherance of instant

swindle as set forth above.

THE EL PASO OFPICE

At El Paso, Teas

ad at the bed lenge leous check the deetstration rocerds deo anary

1951, to pecsore tune ter

ary parcanent anicrnation concerrang the

Perractite 16a, ERETU and associates mentioned hereira

nill at the Mall loter Compary intervier la. Jo IT. HALL, Ornes, con

cerning his knowledge of and associate with VICTOR FEREIRA.

Will follow and report prosecutive action.

-97-15374-26X1

DocI: 32327479 Page 51

---

## Page 52

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC

2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hotel.

7

1EP 8743572

TAUNTSTRATIVS. PAGE

CONE IDENTAL, IKPORIANTS

simoapolis T-l 18 SP-3 whose identity 1e 1

87-15374 - 26X10

- 51 -

DocTA: 32327479

Page 52

---

