# docid-32107665

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10010-10224

RECORD

SERIES

JFK"

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 201-289248

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#: NW 53199 Date:

06-06-2017

June 24, 1996

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 2

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 1

Postponement # 1 (Page 10):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 05/2006

Board Review Completed: 05/14/96

HH 53199

DocId: 32107665

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date:

06/18/96

Page:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10010-10224

JFK

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

• DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

CIA

HELMS, RICHARD, DD/P, CIA

DCI

PLANS OF BRITISH AND

FRENCH PUBLISHING FIRMS TO PUBLISH THE THOMAS

BUCHANAN

ARTICLES ON

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

04/20/64

10

BUCHANAN, T.

FOREIGN PRESS

FRENCH PUBLISH

BRITISH PUBLISH

PUBLISHING FIRM

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SECRET

1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

06125/93

OSW15:V56B 1993.06.25.16:35:53:060150: PART

OF BULKY XAAZ-27162; WITH

RELEASE COVER SHEET

#31

[R] - ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

HH 53199

DocId: 32107665

Page 2.

---

## Page 3

This document, 131 CSDB 3, 660,704

by authority of Hrustin Memo

dated,

dee 22, 72

* Archives List atl a Briggs Der 55 mena copiano.

662-834

HH 53199

DooId:32107665

Page 3

---

## Page 4

S-2-C-R-S-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND

USE ONLY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

Ü5D3

3660704

20 April 1964

2002

31

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT:

Plans of British and French Publishing Firms to

Publish the Thomas Buchanan Articles on

Assassination of President Kennedy

A competent American observer learned, in Paris on 10 April

1964, that Secker and Warburg Itd., in London, will publish as a

the Thomas Gittings Buchanan articles which have appeared in

Paris in l'Express.

The publishing firm is also approaching various

publishers in the United States and the firm is rushing its edition,

hoping to have it on sale by 15. May 1964:

2. Buchanan's thesis is that the assassination of President

Kennedy was the product of a rightist plot in the United States.

He alleges in his articles that the slain Dallas policeman Tippett

was part of the plot against President Kennedy•

A well-informed American, who maintains excellent contacts

in French publishing circles, reported that Anne Rives (in charge

of foreign rights for the Rene Julliard publishing firm) stated

that the Buchanan book would be published in France by the end of

April 1964. Julliard is hoping to publish the book at the same

•time as Les Roses Rouges de Dallas by Nerin Gun, who is correspon-

dent in the United States of the Italian magazine Epoca.

Nerin

Gun claims to have been in the car following President Kennedy's

car.

4. Anne Rives described the book Les Roses Rouges de Dallas

as devastating and, for this reason, it could not be published In

the United States.

According to Rives, the British publisher for

the book will be Frederick Muller of 110 Fleet Street, London.

Rives indicated that Gun was handling all foreign publication

rights to his book.

5.

According to Anne Rives, the German publisher for the

Buchanan book will be Rowohlt of

Hamburg. She states that two

American publishers have made offers for the book: Houghton-

Mifflin is said to want

to buy but not publish right away as the

662-834

GROUP 1

Excluded from automat.

downgrading and

declassification

S-E-E-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND

USE ONLY

GS COPY

HN 53199 DocId:32107665 Page 4

201-289248

---

## Page 5

S-B-C-R-B-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND

USE ONLY

firm is now doing two "official" books on President Kennedy with

United States Government backing. The other American firm, Knopf,,

wants to publish the book right away and will probably get rights

through Curtis Brown of 575 Madison Avenue, New York City, the

literary agency Involved.

6. The Agency is aware that Thomas Gittings Buchanan, born in

Baltimore, Maryland, 16 March 1919, was discharged as a reporter

for The Washington Star In 1948, at which time he admitted he was

a member of the Communist Party of the United States Julliara

published his book "Unicorn" in France in 1959 and a year later

the Sloane firm published the Buchanan book in the United States.

T. Concerning Nurin Gun, it has been reported that he was born

in Rome on 22 February 1924 of Turkish parents.

lance journalist since 1946 and has placed articles in American

and Western European publications. In 1956 he resided in Toronto,

Canada and the Turkish Consulate in that city refused to grant him

a passport to return to Turkey because he was considered by them

to be a Communist.

Richard Helms

Deputy Director for Plans

CSDB-3/660,704

2 -

-S-E-G-R-D-I

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND

USE ONLY

HW

53199 DooId:32107665 Page 5

---

## Page 6

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN •DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND

USE ONLY

Orig.: The Director of Central Intelligence

Special Assistant to the President

for National Security Affairs

The Director of Intelligence and Research,

Department of State

The Director, Defense Intelligence Agency

The Attorney General

The Department of Justice

The Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation

The Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

Deputy Director for Intelligence

Assistant Director for National Estimates

Assistant Director for Current Intelligence

.- 3 -

S-E-C-R-E-T.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/ BACKGROUND

USE ONLY

53199

DocId: 32107665 Fade 6.

---

## Page 7

31

Noc

of List 2

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON R5, D.G.

PUB 3

10/ 086

XAAZ- 36451

21422.303

MI. Samuel A. Stern

President's Commission on the

Assassination of President Kennedy

200 Maryland Avenue, N.E.

Washington, D.C. 20002

Dear Mr. Stern:

Pursuant to our telephone call yesterday, I am attaching

at Mr. Karamessines' request a copy of a very recent

dissemination by CIA on a matter of direct interest to you,

and perhaps others in the Commission.

I would interpret the attachment to come within the

sensitivity precautions that we have given in other, formal,

transmissions to the Commission.

If you have any questions or comments on this piece,

don't hesitate to call me.

Attachment

662-834

CLASSIFICATION CANCELED

By authority of: Cofa lite 12/22/72

Name and

tille of person making the chauge:

7/ 1r/73

fistinee

Raymond G. Rocca

IP; CR; V

IP/MB

TRAEL PROGRAM

SHESTRACT

TWOLX

REPRICE FOR EASONG

CANE NO. (2, 3)

RETEC REE

(ADU! T. (01)

NU (6)

FOR FLING

AR COLL

C/C/

31

RECORD COPY

SECRET

201- 0289248

NN 53199 DocId:32107665 Page 7

---

## Page 8

NO FORTIGN-DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSIM/TO-DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGRAND.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D:C. 20505

120 Apx11 1954

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT:

Plans of British and French Publishing Firms to

Publish the Thomas Buchanan Articles on

Assassination of President Kennedy

1. À competent American observer learned, in Paris on lOrApril.

1964, that Secker and Warburg Itd., in London, will publish as a

book the Thomas Gittings Buchanan articles which have appeared in

Paris in l'Express.

The publishing firm is also approaching various

publishers in the United States and the firm is rushing its edition,

hoping to have it on sale by 15 May 1964.

2. Buchanan's thesis is that the assassination of President

Kennedy was the product of a rightist plot in the United States.

He alleges in his articles that the slain Dallas policeman Tippett

was part of the plot against President Kennedy..

3. A well-informed American, who maintains excellent contacts

in French publishing circles, reported that Anne Rives (in charge

of foreign rights for the Rene Julliard publishing firm) stated

that the Buchanan book would be published in France by the end of

April 1964. Julliard is hoping to publish the book at the same

time as Les Roses Rouges de Dallas by Nerin Gun, who is correspon-

dent in the United States of the Italian magazine Epoca. Nerin

Gun claims to have been in the car following President Kennedy's

car.

4.

Anne Rives

described the book Les Roses Rouges de Dallas

as devastating and, for this reason, It could not be published in

the United States.

According to Rives, the British publisher for

the book will be Frederick Muller of 110 Fleet Street, London.

Rives indicated that Gun was handling all foreign publication

rights to his book.

5. According to Anne Rives, the German publisher for the

Buchanan book will be Rowohlt of Hamburg. She states that two

American publishers have made offers for the book:

Houghton-

Mifflin is said to want to buy but not publish right away as the

GROUP

Excludct.com aulomati

turngrading-and

declassification

S-B-E-R-B-T

LIQ FORBIGN- DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO-DISSEN ABROAD BACKGROUND

_USE SNIX

NH 59199 DocId:32107665 Page 8

---

## Page 9

7177

NO TORRICN DISSEN/-CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAT/IVICKGREED

USE ONLY

firm is now doing tro "official" books on Prcsident Kennedy with

Unitca States Governuent backing. The other Anericen fian, Kropi,

wants to publish the book right ray and will probably set rights

through Curtis Brown oi 575 Madison Avenue, New York City, the

literary agency involved.

6. Г

Julliard

published his book "Unicorn" in France in 1959 and a year later

the Sloane firm published the Buchanan book in the Uniter States.

7. Concerning Nurin Gun, it hus been reported trat he was born

in Rome on 22 February 1924 Of Turkish parents.

He has wen a fiee

lance journalist since 1946 and has placed articies in merican

and Western European publications. In 1956 he resided in Toroito,

Canada and the Turkish Consulate in that city refused to arent him

a passport to return to Turkey because he was considered oy then

to be a Communist.

Tha

ho Richard HeLms

Deputy Director for Plans.

CSDB- 3/660,704

2-

-USE FINLY

HH 53199

DooId: 32107665

Page 9

---

## Page 10

NO FOREIGN-DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSES/NO DISSEM-ABROAD/BACKGROUND

USE ONLI

XAAZ-36451

Orig. The Director of Centril Intelligence

: "Special Assistant tn the President,

for National Security Alfnirs

The Director of Intelligence and Research,

Department of State

The Director, Defense Intelligence Agency

The Attorney General

The Department of Justice

The Director, Federal Bureau of. Investigation

The Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

Deputy Director for Intelligence

Assistant Director for National Estimates

Assistant Director for Current Intelligence

CLASSIFICATION CANCELED

By authority of CIA lts 9 12/22/72

Name and title of person making the change:

Ming

Data

7/11/73

3

FO-FOREIGN DISSEN/CONTROLLED-DISSEM/FO-DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND

USE GNEY

204-0289248

NW 53199

DooId: 32107665

Page 10

---

## Page 11

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND

USE ONLY

cc:

DD/P

C/FI

C/CI.

FI/INT/RC

DD/p/Registry (2 copies)

C/WE (2 copies)

C/CA

C/CA/B3 (2 copies)

C/CA/PROP

C/CA/INT (2 copies)

CA/INT/KK/RAC/amh - 16 April 1964.

TPGIARE - IN-58684 PALP-1435

IN-61617 PALP-1451

LIAISON:

*

4

. =

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND

USE ONLY

НН 53199 Do0Id:32107665 Page 11

---

