# docid-32310367

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/6/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10302-10311

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 63-7112-13, 14

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

09/20/1961

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

RK, ASSOC, B/F INT, TEAMSTERS UNION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 A/T, 2 LHM

v9.1

NW 45827 DocId: 32310367 Page 1

---

## Page 2

. -

F""

-

20/4/61

AIRTEL

TO:

SAC, LOS ANGELES (62-5111)

FROM:

DIRECTOR, TBI (63-7112) - 13

JAMES RIDOLE HOFFA LO 28

/ EARL SCHEIB; EARL SCHEIB AUTO

PAINT SHOPS; ANTHONY DORIA

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

(00:LA)

The letterhead memorandum prepared by your office under

date of 9/20/61, setting forth information furnished by

is not being disseminated.

A considerable portion of the iniorma-

tion furnished by

in the cover airtol forwarding the

letterhead memorandum is pertinent and should have been included

in the memorandun.

Accordingly, the letterhead memorandum should be re-

weitten

to Include all the pertinent information furnished by

Care and caution should be evereised in the preparation

of this memorandum so as not to disclose the identity of

The Bureau appreciates the fact that

feels his life would

be in danger if his identity were disclosed; however, pertinent

infornation furnished by him must be disseminated to the Department,

with his identity appropriately concealed.

Forward revised letterhead memorandum under cover of

OTHER 4

airtel.

PDW : eem

C

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram _

Gandy

4* +

WI

AIL. ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

AMS-2348

NW 45827 DocId: 32310367

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date: 9/20/61

Transmit the foliowing in

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL

Via

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (63-NEW)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (62-5111)

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; EARL SCHEIB;

EARL SCHEIB AUTO PAINT SHOPS; ANTHONY DORIA;

FRANK A. HATFIELD; DICK KAVNER

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

00: Los Angeles

Re Bureau airtel to Los Angeles dated 9/15/61.

Enclosed for the Bureau are four copies of a letterhead

memorandum pertaining to this matter.

The source was recontacted on 9/19/61, and furnished

the following information regarding captioned matter:

For the last nine months HOFFA has been extremely

interested in obtaining a contact with SCHEIB for the Teamsters

Union.

HOFFA assigned RICHARD KAVNER, an international

organizer from St. Louis, to handle this matter.

During this

period KAVNER has been negotiating with ANTHONY DORIA for

the transfer of the SCHEIB contract from DORIA's independent

union to the Teamsters Union.

-

Bureau (AIR MAIL) (Encis. 4)

Los Angeles

(1 - 62-4945)

AAH: LFL: mmw

(5)

an

L

x-116

No d

exputer fy afreake

Approved,.

Rick

"Ly

63-2117-13

25

10 SIP ZE 1961

Per

TrAF//Ka

45827 DocId: 32310367 Page 3'

---

## Page 4

22..141

isin

LA 62-5111

47")

privolio: do Jime.roa

Informant advised that he was always close to KAVNER,

and even though the Teamsters did not get the -SCHEIB-contract

until after informant left the Teamsters, KAVNER got in touch

with him and discussed the situation. Informant knows that

at the time of the transfer KAVNER was spending a lot of time

with SCHEIB, and after KAVNER and SCHEIB returned from

San Francisco KAVNER had several meetings with DORIA.

Informant stated that he knows for a fact that

at about the time of the transfer KAVNER came up with

i part or eac

some money as at that time KAVNER paid off a loan KAVNER

had at the Erie Bank,

Erie, Colorado. Informant related that

In about December, 1960, KAVNER came

to him and said he needed

$10,000. In a hurry and

asked the informant's assistance in

helping him obtain a loan. KAVNER was introduced to PHIL

MATTHEW, who was then Executive Vice President of Empire

Financial Corporation, Van Nuys, California.

MATTHEW told

KAVNER that if KAVNER

had collateral he could arrange a loan

for KAVNER at the Erie Bank, Erie, Colorado, which is owned

by Empire. KAVNER wanted to obtain a loan just on the strength

of his signature and the signature of the informant as co-signer,

KAVNER

then said he could put up stock as collateral, which MATTHEW

accepted, and the loan was made.

Informant noted that at

the time he asked KAVNER if he had the stock why he did not

sell the stock and obtain the money instead of getting the loan,

to which KAVNER replied that the stock actually belonged to

a truck operator who was just signing the stock over to KAVNER

as a favor to assist KAVNER in obtaining the loan.

Informant noted that this was a six months loan,

and at about the time KAVNER closed the SCHEIB deal KAVNER

had the money to pay off the loan.

Informant noted that KAVNER is shrewd and probably

got the money to pay off this loan through a mortgage on his

house or another loan and is probably paying off the indebtedness

incurred in this latter financing with the money he obtained

out of the SCHEIB deal.

He noted

that this point should be

borne in mind if KAVNER's payment of the Erie Bank loan is

checked out.

- 4 -

_ Іпой

3010:13

NW 45827 DocId: 32310367 Page 4

---

