# docid-32125728

## Page 1

8/28/2014

JFK Full Results

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Released under the John

*. kennedy

Mosassination Recorda

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-22-2017

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10027-10065

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-109060-5TH NR 1275

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : ROSEN, A.

TO : BELMONT

TITLE : [No Title]

DATE

:11/26/1963

PAGES

: 3

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : JEK, FUNERAL, NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY MEMBERS

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 4

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:01/29/1996

OPENING CRITERIA

: INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Tarate britaine/147 geembe

1/1

---

## Page 2

Un TOMAL PORA NO. 10

• UNITED STATES GOVERN INT

Memorandurn

TO

We, Belmont lorr

DATE: November 26, 1963

FROM :

A. Rosen

Mons

i thin

Craint

Firingrit

Gaja...

Ar. sir. -

Si,: van Z

rovel ---

Trotter._

Tele. Rein. ...

Holmes -

Gandy -

SUBJECT:

UNKNOWN SUBJECTS;

BOMBING OF SIXTEENTH

STREET BAPTIST CHURCH

BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA

SEPTEMBER 15, 1963

BOMBING MATTERS

While Governor George Wallace, the political figure most

closely identified with the views and beliefs of suspect Klan and

National States Rights PArtY (NuiP) members, made an appearance at

the funeral of President. Kennedy

in Washington yesterday, a confidenti

informant reported prime suspect Thomas Blanton, Jr., and his father,

along with officials of the NSRP, have been jubilant and celebrating.

However, another reliable informant reports the klan has

had no meeting this week and none is planned due to

FBI "activities."

5-

z

Among those at NSRP headquarters who were happy over the

assassination. were

and Albert DeShazo James Warner, Dr, Baward Re Fielden

Jerry Dutton

DeShazo, in discussing the current issue of the

NSRP publication

"The Thunderbolt," which contains bitter anti-Kennedy

diatribe, (advance copy of which has been furnished the Attorney

General) made the statement they would now have to change the name

from Jack to Robert.

An informant reported Edward R. Fields was In contact with

Mary Lou Holt, representative of United

• Americans for Cooperative

Goverment, and both agreed the assassination of the President was

an act of God as if he was not a communist, he was a fellow traveler

, FILED

ORIGINAL

and his demise would prevent his delivering them into the hands of

the communists. Fields and Holt discussed at length the FBI's

investigation of the Birmingham bombings, and both agreed this

investigation was most detrimental to the objectives of their

respective organizations.

Both asserted they would be happy to see

the FBI's attention diverted.

62109060-52 NR NR1275

1 - Mr. Mobr

1 - MI. DeLoach

1 - Nr. Evans

NOT RECORDER fei,

126 DEC 4

963

HEY: CAC

"(9) Cac

600609

3 DEG 3 1963

HW 53025

DocId: 32125728 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memorandum to Nr. Belmont

RE:

UNKNOWN SUBJECTS; BOMBING OF

SIXTEENTH STREET BAPTIST CHURCH

As a result of conferences of Agents working on the

bonbing cases in Birmingham, it was agreed that the following

remain as prime suspects:

Thomas Blanton, Jr., Charles Cagle,

Robert Chambliss, Troy Ingram, Levi Yarborough. Secondary

suspects are Bobby Frank Cherry, Walter Earl Thompson, Billy

Neil Tipton, Herbert Eugene Reeves and Ross Keith.

John Wesley Hall is believed to have participated in bombings

other than the principal ones being investigated, Agents

handling him are convinced he eventually will reach

informant

status as he has recently furnished signed statement identifying

Cagle and Yarborough as the persons who burned the st. James

Methodist Church, Warrior, Alabama, August 10, 1963.

While

witnesses have not been able to corroborate the latter information,

Hall has been cooperative in furnishing coverage of special

meetings, which coverage has been corroborated, and has also

accepted money for securing information and realizes full well

the "hold" Agents now have on him.

According to an informant who intercepted a conversation

between Matt Murphy, who is acting as attorney for the NSRP, and

J. B. Stoner, Murphy advised the FBI has been putting alot of heat

on him. Stoner said he likes to discredit Agents publicly.

because no judge will let him do so in court.

Stoner and Murphy agreed the indictment pending against

NSRP members because of their obstructing desegregation in the

Birmingham schools is "loose."

They said the only overt act

charged against Stoner was a speech he made, and Stoner plans to

attack the indictment on constitutional grounds that it violated

his freedom of speech.

Attorney Ralph E. Coleman, self-admitted segregationist

and John Bircher representing Jack and Herman Cash who have been

checked as suspects, stated his clients are of the opinion the

violence in Birmingham can be traced to disgruntled Klansmen and

NSRP members.

Coleman implied he has a connection with the

Governor's office and said "we" intend to "pull the rug out from

under the NSRP." Coleman stated "his sources" have the opinion

the prime suspects in the Birmingham bombings are Tommy Blanton,

Robert Chambliss, Troy Ingram and Charles Cagle.

Coleman had no

- 2

HH 53025 DocId:32125728 Page 3

---

