# docid-32114080

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10002-10454

DL

100-10461-7477

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FOREIGN GOVERNMENT

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/22/1963

6

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/07/1994

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

4

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS

DATE LAST PAGE LEFT SIDE

v9.1

DocId: 32114080

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the Tohn

DATE:

11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

SECRET

i Roport Wa

27

5668 520/15K

1-97

2-28

AlL INTO REMAINS CLASSIFICO

20

-15€03

Classified by 9.803

eclassity em: CADR J

Personnilties,

sin Radio Moscow lazrAL to VIADUCI

2202

nix dis

172044

SIAPRIo's prosont ago must bo botwoon 43 and 45.

In tho lattor yoars of the var,

SIPIRO was Chief of the

Anglo-inericon Departnent of Radio Moscowe

Ilo is a vory

intolligent Jew who keeps his thoughts to himsolf. Port

of his obility lies in his maripulation of offico poritico.

Ho has plenty of initiativa and it vas nis luca to sona

VIADUCT to visit tho Inglo-inericon P.O.. Staging Camp

1n

Odessa and also to accompany Mrs. Churchill on her trip to

tha Crimes.

working with sadio mascow;

SHAPIRO marriod a Russian Jowess from the Spanish Department

They are still marsica and have childron.

2:

After leaving Radio Moscow somotime after the

of tho war,

work under VARGA,

oconomist,

who was editor of the macarino "World Economy and Fioriu

Politics" " Thoro is also an institute of this rune undor

tho Acadeny of Sciences and SHAPIRO is still employed there

as a sonior Collaborator

3.

VINDUCT saldon met STAPIRO aftor he left Rad.

Moscow and knows of no evidence theo SHAPIRO is a KG B•

worker.

SHAPIRO 15 a close riend of MikhaLl USETTLIN, whe

the woll mom-contributor to "Invostla" undor the nano

JoSOphAG PAMOV

Bied

dj-e

Prosent ago approvinatoly 1,2.

ADANOV is well

bisl

with *ypical dare armonian 100ks,

lic closoly resemblos

thoactor Erest Eosinino.

Ho was bon in Constantinople

hero his father vas a Soviet Trado Reprosentativo.

He later

lived in london for a numbor of yoars when his fathor was in

tho Soviet Drado Mission tore.

He is a talented non whose:

speciolity is tho inglish languago and living conditions in

the United Kingdom and tho U.s.A.

Ho is a high class

interpretor in inclish - probably the bost in Moscow.

He

intorprots at. Party Congresses and other importont functions

and still worke as well in Radio Moscow.

5:

Mon hia mothor dict sono yours ashonor nomied

a girl working in tho Anglonericon Dopertment of Radlo

Moscow..

Her namo is URATA but DoNOV aliays calis hor

Jennifer.

6.

VIADUCT is convinced that ADAMOV is a coopted

worker for tho.K.G.B.

Ho is virtually contrin that ADMOV

originally talont-spottod him and his auspicions wore Inter

confirmed whon VIADUCt's case officers YUGOROV, tola him not

to associate with him.

VIADUCI thinio that ADAMOV's wife

probably also cores port-line fos the K.G.D. Despito this,

it rould sooin

that ADAMOV is not fully trusted since he has

on nunous occasions tried to go abroad but has novor ben

given pormission.

Ile was once even refused permiscion to 80

to Crochoslovaicine:

ADANOY also told VIADUCT that his nino

hed on one occasion cono up to do to the 1.9.1. as en inter

pretor with some delegation.

Foroign Iravol Comnission of the Central Committee end naà

fillod up the usul questionnaire.

Ho vas thon re-interviewed

and askod why no hi

l stated that nis father ned diod..: surely

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDED BY

8-5

LEASE FOR EXTENSIO

lover

CIM 161242

SECRET

DATE OF REVIEW

DECLASSIFICATE

10/22/9

100704617471

DocId: 32114080

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F

DATE: 11-14-2017

ion Records

SECRET?

-2.00

T11 USC 2107. Hotel.

in fact ho had boen arrested?

ADAMOV had to confoss that

this was truo and that ho had not vished to prejudice his

chance of accompraying the dolocation.

His application

was rofused.

7°

VIADUCI considors that there is a reasonable

chance that ADANOV would try to defect in over ho were

allowed to loave tho U.s.s.?.

He has no childron and he

does not appear to be very dovatca to his viio.

8.

BELIISKIY ras bom outside tho soviet Union,

posseLy 22 the done tho served in the soviot Army during

the var and cano to works in Radio loscow in about 1945.

Ho alvays vorked like a dynumo.

Apart from Radio Moscow

ho later did work for Soverportfilm, Mostilm and the soviot

Information Burcaü.:

He furthor acted an a froe lance

translator.

BRUITSKIY is a high class intorprotor and he and

ADAMOV aje probably two or tho bost simultaneous

in Inglish.

BILITSKIY has also acted as intorpretor for

soviot delbentions going abroad.

10.

BELIISKIY is married with children.

BUt,IISKTY? 3

ohief interest in life is enrning noney

•VIADUCT and

ADAMOV heve discussed him in tho must und both agreed that

BLIIKIY is not interosted in giris, drink or other normal

vicos. He is only interostoà in monovo

11.

Won VE Dur was cultivating Cecily OSBORN of

ino Australien Ambassy, BAITSKIY once met

440

does not think he would be a candidate for dorection.

VI DUCT has lso wonderod in the past hother BLINSKIY has

worked for tho kas.

1200 KINOVICA SUBSON (ph INSTON) 1 4424

12.

wIstoN is haif Intrion and half British.

He was

other born in tho lak. or batvie.

Tis mother at present

livos in Hima.

-During the mr he ms an announcer for Radio

Moscow but ADAMOV always chined that his pronuncintion was

Ho lator become a tencher in the Institute of

Pornica®

Shakes 03r0.

He also wrote a disserintion on

He soill occasionally announoes for. Radio

His prosont ago is approximatoly 4?a

WHISTON ise vey silent and closed person.

He is

tall and hanasome.

He murried a girl from indio Moscow, but

she later aivorced him.

He is nor living alone.

is disillusionod and unhappy,

he hates the KoG.3.

so over to the west if he could.

He is, however, unlikoly

bo allowed to travel.

It was THISION who introduced VIADUCi to Valya

DESHINI Who was thon usea by the Klß. egalastesiralvo.

VIADUCt's colations with WHISPON cooled

incident.

Three or four yeurs ngo, MIStON told VIADUCT

that no rould lie to marry again.

SECRET

lover

00-10461 7477

DotId: 32111080 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ReLeased undel, the John F.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Assassination Records Collection Act. of

1992(44 /USC: 2107 Note) .

SECRETI

5°

15°

This English giri used to rorl in the soviot

Embassy in London.

sho marrica MISKIY's Soviot driver,

ho took hor to Moscow.

She was tokon on by Radio lioscow

and bucene considered a great export in brondcastindo"

She

put out the story that sha hna praviously vorkod in

tho BBC.

ADANOV claimed that this ma nonsense.:

She is ambitious

and has comod cood moncy es interprater and translator.

Sho is the nothor of severl children..

VIADUCI thinks that

she is still euployed in the English Department (the Anglo-

American Department of kodlo Moscow los now boon split uplo

VIADUCI has been told that she has visited her parents i

the U.K. since the wor

MAxal still gives the impression

of boing vory British in character.

VINDUCT doos not inow

what job her husbend now holdso

70

16.

This was a. cyphor gil in the U.s. Inbassy.

Sho

Tias

seduced by a singer by the name of TAPSHiN (VINDUCT /PuSS i

comments that IMPSHIN was obviously norking to a K.G.B.

binet in the same fashion as owoV in the digus case

INsiN is in fact a friond of ORLOV and defected in loscowe

About tho only occasion when VIADUCT not SUCHAR was when he

was giving a broadcast till in 1954 or 1955.

As for as

VIADUCT lonows,

she is still vorcing in Radio Moscove

According to ADANOV sho has bocome very critical of tho way

things aro organised and givos the impression of boing an

unhappy person.

apparently she occasionally telaphoroe

her parents.

On the other hand she ainost certairly ea

good money.

VIADUCI has no infomation on hor prosers

private relationship to lAPSHIN but he coments that LAPSHuY

will cerianly have recoived a Mat and a car in retur for

his 5003 fork.:

* (ph and (su)

Froland

3200X17/64

17.

This wus an Inglishman who was vorking in Radáo

locow during the lattor half of ic var.

arhouncer but it was ganemily accopted.

that ho had an

hoducated accent

ilo made no accempt to try. to spear

U9S221

Ilo marricd & girl studont fron the Faculty of

I'ranslators of the instituto of litorature undor the Union

of Soviet Vriters.

HARDY who vas in his carly D°sat tho

timo returned to.

the Gok. in A0l6 or 1947.

10 further datoils other than he was tho father of one or

moro chilaron

BAWLING

B

RUSSI

18.

This is a somen who aust now no in her 50°3.

Sho

has seted as announcer oi Radio Moscow for the last tronty ra

or more.

VIADUCT dOOS n0÷-200r whore she originally:

and from but men he len hon at Radio Moscow she was living

She had adopie?

SNO

young fussian orphans, whon she

called BeDEd and porarind obviouply spoilt than

They, for

their part, grow int young bandits und sove hor

endless

troublo.

MANNING is big hearted but although she telos

hersalf seriously is a source of amusemont to her friends.

During VIADUCT'o line at audio Moscow she bocare inor as

'Krasniy Karandash', 1. 44 Rea Boncil.

She ettendca a meeting

of the English Ionguoge announcers and bored overyone to cours

by putting forwards long-winded theory that the announcers

chould underline difficult words or ronds requiring emphasis

in rod pencilo

no sho axpanded ho: theory so she insisted

SECRET

loves

100-10461-7477

DocTd:32111080* Paverd

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F;

DATE: 11-14-2017

g..

Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note) .

SECRETO

4

that more and moco wordo should bo undorlined, all this in a

excrutiating minuuro. o1 Russian and Englinh.:

Evontually,

ADANOV losu Mis pationco and told hor that soo bud bottor undom

Lino tho y20lo of hor scripts in rod ponoll und be dona with o

Honco hor

nicicano.

Englandl

1020x

: An Englichman then aged about 45.

Rathor bottor

educated than most of his collocgues, amployed by Radio Moscow

during VOT's timo thoro.

Ho always proudly. claimed that

he the enor old learnt kary (vit done voy.

VIADUCT undoratiands thai to roturned to tho U.K.

10

11

12.

13°

Thoso wore tho nanos

of tro Aroricans ecting as trans

lators for Radio Moscow:

¡ VIADUCI know vory little about than.

(s00 also 17 bolow)

VIADUCT romanbors littlo on this man whon ho belloved

is still working as an ennouncer with Radio Moscow.

J0300

A/S S19

22.

This was tho EBC corrcaponäoni who spont some tro

years in Moscow.

VIADUOr bolioves that ho vas bom in tho U.ke

but was of lamonion oxirection.

About 1944 or 1915 Josoph

ADANOV introducod VIADUCT tO PUTAIV.

VIADUCT describos TUrNOV

as handsono and culturod, peaking reasonably good Russian.

VIADUCE knows that MANOV and LUTAIV worn close friends and that

they not fairly froguently privatoly.

WUND held a car and on

ono douasion he saw humov picing up ADMOV. outoido the latter's

flat on the

comor of Gorky Stroot.

VIADUCT comments thut thore

may have beon nothing signifiona in this but it vas at about the

time that he himbolf vas talont spotiod for the kiG l. by ADAMOV.:

23°

VIADUCI has hoard DUrNEV apoak on tho BIC fussian

Sorvics but of courso has novor mot him since.

10dd

Now agod about 55.

When VIADUCT joinod Padio Moscow

MARTELSO:

was worising as a "political analyser".

He had pro-

vionely booz Chior of tha Angio Andrican dopertuort botoro stAPERO.

tartersoul wes, an far an VIADUSt knows, born in the

4: 34.

U, Solo, be apoko perfect Inglish with a strong inerican accent.

He toid VIADJUT that ho hnd beon omployed in Aniorg in the U.S.A.

for a nunber of joars and VIMUCT undorstood that ho had then

omigratod to tho U.S.S.R. before the war.

MaDeroomy is about medium hoisht, calrigh hairs Jewish.

Ho is a quick ond activo inn, corroco and polite, but he givos to

improsaion of being aizaid.

Phas males him cautious and ho nover

sprasces a controversial opinion.

lio survivod the purges of

1937 without boing arrostod and one imaginos he feels that the

atrosphore of 1937 might rococus one of thee days..

member of tho .c.r.s.u.

27•

MurDerson hus sot kinsolf up a a specialist in .S.

litoraturo, lio no longur works for Radio Moscowol

He wroto a

book on lark Ivain for which ho vas mado a "Candidato of litoratura",

Jovex

SECRET

100-10461-7477

DoCId?32114080 Page, 5)

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 011-14-2017

SECRET

0: 5-

14.

15.

16.

Ho is a membor of the Union of Sovios Writors and a lecturor at

tho Institute of Intorature.

Ho contributes articles on inoriosn

literaturo to various journalo..

Both he and his vifo aro Engliah/

Russian translators.

VIADUCT has not MiTorSEd in rocent yoars at tho Fritora

Houso in Perodollino, noar hoscow and at apocial showings of U.S.

films.

HINDEL,SORN was one of the team (which included VIADUCT)

which wont to tho Anglo-Anerican P.O.V. etccing camp in Odessa in

WINDILSONY always rofused to bo dram out on his exporiences

in the U.S.A moroly stating that ho had workod with Antorgo

VIADUCI imaginos that ho do too cuatious to apply to go abroad an

A hough abrison would do unlikoly to rafuco to

holp the Kod. Bo if collod upon be 1a the opposite of a typica

K.C.B. mailo

Canades

310

•A Canadian girl voca fathor, an Ocotlan, hail emigratoà to

Canêda®

good announcor.

Good-laoling but ADAMOV warRod VIADUCE

"not: to

vesto his timg" on Annotio as sho had a cold and unresponsive

Comporanent.

Sho ldier divorced her husband, GOLDSMbINg and

married knukind (see balow)

Thie narriage subsequently, also broke

KiDo

She has.a daughter by bec first husband.

Sha still anounces

rogularly for Radio Moscow.

KINKIN

32.

shortly after the sar Kilmiah, who was living as an emigra

in Franco, voluntarily returned to tho. U.S.S.R.

0f. the well-lanown Soviet comic actor of that name.

socks looking man of French Jewish appearanco.

He is, however?

cultured and opoao firot class French.

KITTKIN otarted work as an announcer and writer in Radio Moscoro

Ivo or throo yoars. lator ho bacamo local correspondont for some foroign

VIADUCT, who net Kimilar on various occasions, got the

impression that lanual was now ontiroly

soviotisod and trusted by

Eo drove a Volkswagon - an unusual faot itself.

VIANCY not kneraton moro then ona occasion at Porodolano

whon the latter wee vioiting Surrorin, an old roturnod emigra, w4o

way correspondent fos silvoration'.

(SUKHOTINg Wiio was Triendly

Vith PAStER AK's widow - honco VIADUCTs acquaintanco with the SUKHOlLINs.)

IMON TIraG married Annetto GOLDSTEN and then later a girl

who worked as an editor in tho publiching houso Inlatra'.

VIADUCT commonts that KHmaN is a "very complicated person"

who soons to have some cont of special relationship with the Soviet

authoritios.

XCARTOR (F.n.U.)

37°

Born in thoU.S.A.

Jewish.

Whon VIADUCT was in Radio Moscow

CANIOR had an editorial

job in the Inglish language nowspaper Moscow

VIADUCI was sent to CANTOR for Inglisi lessons.

Unprincipled

SECRET

100-10461-7471

DocId: 32111080 Paue:6°

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Coltection Aot

DATE 11-14-2017

(44 USC 2107, Hote).

SECRET

- 6-

17:

and loon to male monoy.

38•

Laduch balioves that ho is now doad.

Additional of RUDIMAN (sed Dares 11 above)

RUDIMAN was born in tho U.S.A.

He has a brother still in that

country.

no used to Do a violinist. Iring VIALUCI's time 1n

Radio Moscon, RUDIAN announced for transmissions eined at the U.S.A.

He had à vifo and children and lived in' one niserable röom.

Ho was

a fonily man, chiofly preoccupied with his fanily's living standards;

which, he must have realised, were vastly inferior to what ho would bave

had in tho U.S.A.

40€

Ho is a close friona of ADAMOV.

22nd Octobor 1963

SECRET

100-10461-2477

DocId:32114080 Page 7

---

