# docid-32310845

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10308-10059

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-749

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/30/1962

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, POLIT A/O SYNDICATE ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32310845

329

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the oohn t. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

- 4=41 (Rev. 3-5-62)

2.4

5/30

DECODED COPY

Radio-

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

xxTeletype

DEFERRED 5-30-52 4:37 PM CDST EAH

J9.1

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO 300730

ALL INFORMATION CONTANNED

DATE 4 - 20-84

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA, ARO

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED,

B1SP5RSe

DAILY SUMMARY. CG 6514 - PC - TE ADVISED INSTANT

THAT HE STILL CONSIDERS HIMSELF AS AN OPPONENT TO THE

CHICAGO SYNDICATE AND SPENDS HIS LIFE PROMULGATING THE

CAUSE OF THE LEGITIMATE ITALIAN AMERICAN CITIZEN. HE

CONTINUES TO DENY ANY ASSOCIATION WITH GIANCANA AND HIS

ORGANIZATION AND POINTED OUT THAT HE HAS BEEN BLACKBALLED

FROM FUTURE POLITICAL ACTIVITY SINCE HE REFUSED TO GO

ALONG WITH THE OUTFIT WHEN HE WAS WARD COMMITTEEMAN OF THE

FIRST WARD, NOW JOHN DIARCOS, IN 1952. STATED THAT AT THAT

TIME HE WAS OFFERED $10, 000 BY JACK GUZIK, FORMER LEADER OF

THE SYNDICATE, NOW DECEASED. HE REFUSED THE OFFER, AND HAS

BEEN OUTSPOKEN IN HIS EFFORTS TO REMAIN LEGITIMATE. INFORMANT

STATED HE HAS BEEN PROMISED THE NEXT OPENING FOR COUNTY

COMMISSIONER OF COOK COUNTY, BY MAYOR DALEY. INFORMANT STATES

111 HAVE LOTS OF STORIES I COULD TELL YOU," BUT WOULD NOT

ELABORATE ON THEM AT THIS TIME, NOR WOULD HE EXPLAIN THE

MEANING OF THAT REMARK.. INFORMANT LEFT DOOR OPEN FOR FUTURE

CONTACTS.

ARMED

AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

378

50 JUN11 1962

5:46 PM

MJC

REC- 38

vivd arend

92-

3171-747

6..

ww..

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32310845 Page 2

---

