# docid-32333871

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90108-10013

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-3035-12

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#: NW

53025 Date:

05-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

BROWN

DL

DATE: 06/12/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

HH 53025

2

DocTd: 32333871

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

50104104-01

UNITED STATES GOVERNVENT

MEMORANDUM

TO

FROM

SAC, DALLAS

SA W. HARIAN BROWN

(134-1A-680A

DATE:

6/12/62

5668-

(JAC

98

ON

CLASS.

& EXT.

SUBJECT:

DL-6=8

REASON-FCIM

7.4.2

ATE OF REVI

IRfical # 9-019

Per

On 5/17/62, DL-6-5, in person,

furnished a type.

witten report to

SAW. HARLAN BROWN, which report 1s

dateo

Plesion.

5/17/62, and has been serialized as

134-1A-680. 0K

release

That report revealed that on Monday,

5/7/62,

JOE

LANDIN met BILL LOWERY and AUGUSTIN ESTRADA for a regular

CP

meeting. BILL LOWERY gAVe AUGUSTIN ESTRADA $43,50, which was a

(= contribution to AUGUSTIN ESTRADA'S father, JOSE ESTRADA,

who was deported to Mexico for being & CP member, from the

Houston and San Antonio

Informant determined that ESTRADA inquired about

State Conmittee meeting.

He then said he did not mean to

"State Committee Meeting,

" since there was none

He in

quired about the

"get together."

BILL LOWERY told him that

JOIN STANFORD wanted to know 11 AUCUSTIN had made any efforts

{as they had discussed once) to bring his deported father from

Mexico to'the

States 1.0.,

had he as planned written to the

American Civil Liberties

Union.

If he had, they, the State

Committee, wanted to know the

results."

ESTRADA

sald that

quite some time ago,

he had inquired about his father's social

security

benefits and that quite recently two weeks ago he had

written to

"a lady

on the Weat

Coast" about ale father'e case cou

63-3035 (ACLU-DALLAS)

PADR

Classied br

Teclassify e

$211 32

*

134-1A-680

00-8001

S..

Landin)

00-7995

(A. Estrad)

- 200-7929

B. Lowery)

cig

100-671-5

Organizetion

100-671-1

(Funds)

65-876 (J. Estrad Y

100-8749

Stanford)

OTHERWISE

100-8145

(S.

200-8165

81..

BArDATIAL

San

Antonio

(RM

Joan

William

SA 200-72 32)

Stanford 16-0(us

Houston (RM) (CP,

Organization, IS-C

MTINFORMATION CONTATHOD

HURR

GLAOSTFIED

SHOWN

1449

WHB: EM

(18)

AFPROPRIATE AGENCIE

AND FIND OFFICES

ADVISED B

ING.

SLIP: (S

DATE

62-3035-12

Classified by L&iT

SEARCHED

INCEXED

Exempt from CDS, Caterers 2

SERIALIZEO

FILED

Date of Declassient

on Indefinite

JUN 1 21962

lian

318 DME/CA

FBI - VALLAS I

stol

NH 53025

DocId: 32333871

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DI I34-1A -680A

ESTRADA explained that he

was waiting on her answer

He said

he had discussed all of this with his father, and his father

was willing to come to the states only for a visit and only if

the local Dallas Mexican-American people are behind this effort

or if they are otherwise involved (knowing about the JOSE

ESTRADA Case) .

A'visit without a constructive purpose was not

WOrth IT, NOSE RSTRADA hEd Explained to AUGUSTIN ESTRADA. RCAN(4)

Informant's report further revealed that AUGUSTIN

ESTRADA mentioned that

And NIS. SAM BARBARIA;

he and bis wife had had dinner with MR.

that SAM BARBARIA is the attorney who

represented JOSE ESTRADA.

BARBARIA suggested to AUGUSTIN

ESTRADA that = Letter from the ESTRADA fanily be malled directly

to the 0. S: President.

"letter would request that the

President allow

MR. JOSE ESTRADA to return to the U.S. for a

visit.

ESTRADA wondered if there was any connection between

the

"lady on the West Coast" he was writing to and SAM BARBARIA,

BILL LOWERY, according to informant, said the idea seemed to be

a good one and after all the attorney knew what he was doing.

Ever so, EstrADA answered he would have his father's consent.

NOt LANDiN agreed to this Kll U)

BILL LOWERY asked AUGUSTIN ESTRADA what position

In the CP did he hold and ESTRADA

answered that he could be

considered as free lancing. us

Informant had no additional information, l

2

74 53025

DooId:32333871

Page 3

---

