# docid-32301587

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10278-10422

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-1ST NR 103

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/26/1964

• PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, ACA, MEMBERS, MIL ACT, OBA, PLANS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

v9.1

NN 45881 DocId:32301587 Page 1

31

---

## Page 2

- AT. J. D. Donohue

-

Mr.

No P.

Row

- V. H. Nasca

3/30/64

sa

Airtel

Tor

Frome

SAC, Alami (134-975)

Director, FBI (105-76

aka

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSISIED

BYSSBIGEL

4 14/96

5668 Old/CATS

Beurairtel 3/26/64 and Bulet 3/9/64.

Authority la granted to pay aubjeet up to $200 for

services rendered on C.0-D, baste.

bureau has carefully reconsidered your reguest to

designate subject as PSI] however, authority la being dented

to

develop him as such for same reasons an ouflined in reBulet.

10512722 Comandos L

97÷4474-(MIRR

VHN: mec

(8)

105-

ORIGINAL FILED IN

OTHER 4

DUPLICATE YELLOW/

Subject, Cuban refugee and pilot, has participated in

militant anti-Castro acttvitles Including bombing and leaflet»

dropping missions over Cuba in the paste

In 1959 and 60 he was

hospitalized because of mental conditionon but in February 1964,

physician who treated him belteved he had recovered.

In 1963

he furnished reliable information on two occasions which resulted

in thwarting of two attempted bombing attacks of Cuba by anti-

Castro forces..

By letter 3/9/64 we dental Mant authorityce to

designate subject as PSI because ua felt that, although he was

cooperating at this time, background indicated he could change

hie cooperative attitudeand participate in some mtlitant

anti-Castro activitles without our knowledge. In addition, we advised

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE 2WO.

56 APR 141964.

NW 45881 DocId:32301587 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Airtel to san. Miam

RE :

205-70909

a/sa

Mant that his history of past mental instability and propensity

to become inuolued in anti-Castro matters would make him difficult

to control.

Miami, however, was authoriaed to accept data subject

might volunteer.

Miant airtel 3/26/64 noted Movimiento Insurrectonal de

Revo lucionario Recuperacion (MIRR) Is cooperating with Comandos

L, both anti-Castro organizationg which have been involved in

attacks against Cuba.

MIRR is planning new attacks on Cuba

which will involue sea attack on Soulet vessel off coast of

Florida and air attacit on sugar areas in Cuba. MIRR is

a plane., Subject also learned that Comandos I la planning

independent boat raid on Cuba in immediate future and subject is

endeavoring to obtain additional information.

has paid subject a total of $400 to date ($200 on SAC authority

09 040,

Miami office

and an additional 200 on Bureau authority) and has requested

authority to pay subject up to an additional $200. Miami has

also requested authority, in view of new information fron informant,

to designate him as PSI.

It la belteved we should authorize the

$200 but take same position as we did before concerning his

development as PSI.

OTHER 4

938-10807

NW 45881

DocId: 32301587

Page 3

---

## Page 4

10-29-63)

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

DATE

F B 1

Date:

3/26/64

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL SPECIAL DELIVERY - REGISTERED

(Priority)

DIRECTOR,

FBI (105-78969)

SAC, MIAMI (134-975) (212

OTHER 4

78969

ORIGINAL FILED L

S0G,

2720

FROM:

92-4424 (mR.

IS - CUBA

(00: Miami).

MIR,R,

Remylet 2/17/64 to

Bulet 3/9/64 denying

Mami authority to designate

as PSI and instructing

hat no steps

be taken to guide

Or

control his activities.

It is

to be recalled that

furnished accur-

ate information to this office which enabled U.S. Customs

and U.S. Coast Guard

to seize a plane, two boats and ex-

plosives on 12/28/63, thereby preventing an air bombing raic

from being launched againsi Cuba.- This raid was promoted

by the Movimiento Insurrecional de Revolucionario Recuperacion

(MIRR), an anti-Castro organization led by Dr. ORLANDO BOSCH

AVILA,

who has a history of having previously sponsored

bombing raids.

In

1,

another raid.

64 BOSCH disclosed to.

that he planned

has been volunteering info to this

office concering these plans which have

encountered setbacks

due to financial problems.

On. 3/25,26/64,

voluntarily advised that

BOSCH claims to have recently received considerable funds and

now is seriously laying plans

for another raid.

BOSCH has

disclosed

that he and the MIRR now ace cooperating with

Comandos I, another anti-Castro action group which, it is

recalled,

made a successful attack against a Russian freighter

in Caibazien harbor, Cuba, in Spring, 1963.

Bureau (AMSD) (RM)

197-4474

WE

Miami

NOT PECORDED

GED: egh

176 APR

8 196416 WAR

1964

Approved)

Sent

Per

Special Agent' in Charge

NH 45881 DocId:32301587 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-36 ev.

10-29-63)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority)

MM 134-975

OTHER 4

BOSCH is depending upon

to assiot him in

carrying out these new plans. He again

desires

to

serve as the plane pilot, and to assist BOSCH and another

cuba, LaRedo RoDRiGuEz, in transporting arms and explosives

to Andros Island in the Bahamas for concealment.

BOSCH

plans to set up a base on Andros Island for his boat and the

plane.

neither of which has yet been acquired. He desires

to handle the problem of obtaining an Aero-Commander

plane.

BOSCH has told

he plans to use the boat in

attacking a Russian vessel

off the coast of Florida, and the

plane for bombing sugar cencrals in Cuba.

BOSCH told

he has decided not to deal with

any Americans, such as WILLIAM JOHNSON and CHARLES BUSCH,

both of whom were involved in preparations for the 12/28/63

raid. BOSCH has indicated complete confidence in

has been very adroit in avoiding suspicion.

who

also has learned from BOSCH that the

Comandos L‹

group is planning an independent raid against

Cuba by boat in the innediate future.

stands a good

chance of obtaining more info about this by continuing his

association with BOSCH.

(Miami has advised U.S. Customs about the above

developments pertaining to raids, and is in process of pre-

paring a communication for the Bureau suitable for

dissemination.)

moting

money.

Approved:

believes that BOSCH is interested in pro-

these

caids

primarily for the purpose of raising

BOSCH plans the raids, but does not share any personal

- 2-

Sent

_M Per.

Special Agent in Charge

NH 45881 DocId:32301587 Page 5

---

## Page 6

FD-36 (Rev. 10929-63)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority)

MM 134-975

Approved:

risk.

doubts the value of any such raid as planned

by BOSCh.

He also has confidence in the FBI and believes

it is his duty to cooperate.

In order for

to acquire this information

he has' to associate with BOSCH at the expense of neglecting

his personal affairs. He is in the business of repairing

air conditioners and other electrical equipment.

He also

gives private flying lessons. He has gotten behind in some

of his expenses, and faces loss of his telephone service.

He will be unable to continue close association with Bosch

at this critical time uniess he can be compensated for his

loss of time.

This office, to date, has paid him a total of

$350.00 out of a total $400.00 authorized by the Bureau.

An additional $50.00 will be paid to him 3/27/64, which will

exhaust the current authorization.

already has proved his productivity and

reliability.

His

position with BOSCH is unique because of

his qualifications as a pilot and a veteran of previous raids.

It is because of his background as a man of action and ad-

venturer that le is able to cultivate the confidence of

BOSCH. Miami feels these characteristics should be regarded

as an advantage in assessing him as a PSI.

With regard to

treatment in the psychi-

atric section of Jackson

• Menorial Hospital, Miami, in 1959

and again in 1960, it is noted his doctor, MIGUEL A. MORA, Who

on 2/11% he doctor at

: the time of his confinement, advised

on 2/11/64 that l

has recovered from his previous

state of depression,

and

is leading a normal life, unlikely

to have a recurrence

• of his previous state of depression.

- 3 -

Sent

-М Рег

Special Agent in Charge

NH 45881 DocId:32301587 Page 6

OTHER 4

---

## Page 7

PD-36 (Rev, 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

FBI.

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MM 134-975

OTHER 4

and up to

reliable.

excellent cooperation with this office in 1963,

this time, would indicate that he is stable and

331

As the Bureau is aware, the activities of Cuban

revolutionazy organizations are

Crequently spontaneous

and unpredictable. They do not follow the set pattern

usually common. to other nationality groups a nd to the

Conmunist Party. A Cuban revolutionary group may be formed

to carzy out only one or two operations, and then cease to

exist.

Consequently, ic is necessacy for this office to

act with dispatch in placing appropriate coverage on a par-

ticular organization which is planning a raid.

It is felt that Bureau regulations and policy

relative to development of informants and investigation of

these cases should be applied with sufficient flexibility

to produce maximum results.

It is respectfully requested that Bureau reconsider

Miami letter 2/17/6

to Bureau in light of above develop-

ments, and approve

for development as a PSI.

It is also re

shedful

zequested the Bureau author-

ize this office to pay

up

co an additional $200.00

for services rendered on a C.O.D. basis.

It is requested Bureau advise concerning its

decision promptly.

- 4 -

Approved:

Sent

Per -

Special Agent in Charge

NH 45881 DocId:32301587 Page 7

---

