# docid-32311911

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10320-10228

RECORD SERIES: HQ.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-409763-18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO:

TITLE:

DATE:

00/00/0000

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

MARK LANE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT, PHOTO, PHOTO NEG

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: EBF, INC 3 ENV, STATEMENT, INSTRUCTION

v9.1

DocId: 32311911 Page 1

28

---

## Page 2

BY ASSISTANT DISTRICT ATTORNE: FATTEN:

1oaa0 Queens dourovang and address? b Phyllis Denise Goldén,

Q. Is that Forest Hills? A Yes.

@. Now, irs. Golden, do you know one kark Lane,?

A. Yes.

Q. How long have you krown him?, " Two years and three months.

Q: Where did you meet him for the first time?

A In ari adáress?

c. Yes.

A 339 East 77th Street.

Q. And what is that address? A well, It was his residence.

Now, was the purpare of that meeting for you to discuss a legal

problem with Mir. Lane?

Several legal problems.

@' Is he a lawyer? A Yes.

..

Now, after that did you meet him on occasions? & Yes.

And where did you mèet hin, was it at his office or at your

home or where?

At his office, at his home, at my home, at

citizen committees and clubs.

& Now, during the first period of your acquaintance with Mr.

Lane was he engaged in a

campaign. for Assembly? A

Not: for the

first four months actively.

Well, eventually he did go into a campaign, 1s that correct?

Yes.

@ And did you assist him during thät campaign? A Yes.

In what way?

Everything from floor washer to ceiling

painting, sound truck driver, getting brochures prepared.

Now, during that

Now, what did he say to you and

what did you say to him in

discussing the so-called tests?

well, his explanation for why

the tests were ...

Just a minute,

let me interrupt you.. Did he ask you to make

certain tests?

Yes.

1332121

Now, tell us what he said to you when he asked you to mäke

certain tests and what the tests would consist of?

He said

that this friend of his was running, was conducting a series of

tests.. It. had to do with, as I said yesterday,

I ari not positive but

I am pretty sure it was a lie detector test and they depended

on

the pulse rate and if I knew how to take a pulse and I said, "Yes,"

Q: Did you consent to perfor. the tests for him? à

Yes..

Did he. say on whom the tests vere to be perfored?

A 'He said

that men this psychologist gave him the test he said that the

psychologist didn't want to know who was doing the test; that

either he could do it or he could sive it to amaziructors sone-

one else to do it, so he cecided to do it.

At any time did he produce papers to you supposedly from the

psychologist for the performance of these tests?

Q And were. they in sealed envelopes? i Yes.

a And did he invariably open the sealed envelopes in your

presence? A No, I opened the envelope.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

=1a

HERE SUASITED

DATE (e/6/2

SAK)

Id: 32311911

Page. ? !

---

## Page 3

Released under| the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 21U7 Mote)

DATE:

11-11-7017

Did you follow the instructions thät viere on the paper?

For the rost

part, yes.

Now, hill you briefly tell me what these consisted of that you

actuaily witnessed other than the events thät happened on january

18th,

1962 which I will question you abat later?

Right.

Having

him

walk around naked, whatever you want to call it, for five

anutes at a true; having candles put into him anaily inserting

pins or needles around the anal area and in the testicles; giving

him enemas; putting.tooth piste both into the anal opening and the

penis; inserting the martini into the penis opening irit with and

without alcohol;

stirrer/

shaving pubic hair, tweezing it; taking a temperature; picutres,

obscene, pictures, taking

and showing

of obscene pictures of

him-

self; playing & tape recorder supposedly not known to himänd then

playing it back to him; having hin masterbate.

He wanted me to

beat him, that was not

done and hüving someone else present prior

to the 18th, was not done.:

Male or female? A Female.

Now, these tests I take it were conducted from time to time

between and

by you and Mark. Lane, is hat correct?

Yes.

• How often would you say during the perlod of time of your

acauaintanceship with him and up to January l8th, Xg&X 1962, were

these tests done? A Approximutely twelve times.

there were they conducted? A Either at his apartment - - -

‚Address please.

* 339 Last. 77th Street, his former apartment

my

104-20 Queens Boulevard.

in Albany.

apartment;, was in a hotel at the corner of State Street and

I'he first couple of times

Broadway and then after that at the wellington and then at the

Delitt Clinton.

"ere any conducted in his office? " No.

O During all this period of time up to January 18th, 1962,

you of the opinion that these tests were legitimate, scientific

test's?. A:

sor part of the time, yes.

& In the beginning? a Yes.

A" Yes.

Did there come a time when you knew that they were phony?

& How did you know that they were phony? i First of ail I

started thinging about. It a little and

I realized, I put two and

two together and stopped making excused and also I saw him typing

up a set of tests in his office.

& Now, on January isth, 1962, did you receive a call from a

girl iriend of yours by the name of Lee Stephenson?

her as Lee Stevens, yes.

•A I know

Did Lee say she was comi"g out to your apartment in Forest Hills?

A She had said that she had a business appointment for lunch out

here in Queens and that when she was through and on her way back

the city she wouldistop off and say hello.

After this

out also?

did you get a call from Mark Lane that he was coming

Yes.

who arrived first, Lee or Mark? A Lee.

1Q

Did you tell her that Marli was coming? & Yes.

Did you ülso brief her on the so-called tests that had been

previously conducted?

She knew about them prior ta January

nith was not the first that she knew about them?

- 2-

DocId: 32311911 Page 3

---

## Page 4

otel.

11-14-2017

She knew about them? & Yes.

Did you tell her that kark might possibly ash her to participate?

YeS.

Did Lee consent to so paruicipüte?

ve were

discussing it fier answer wagg

Before her arrival when

nwell, we will see what

happens."

well, Kartashaxhid when hark came in did he raquest ooth of

conduct the tests?

"Hait 'à second,

rèquest actually, he did not recuest both of us to do it.

gavo me the test

as I linew then actually

I lias the person

who isked Lee to do it:

He was not actually the person

who asked

I show

you a sheet of puper and ask you if you ever saw that

before?

Yes.

i What is it?.

& That was the test that Mark handed to nie in

a sealed envelope on January 18th, 1962.

It your apartment?

A Right.

"re you faulliar with Mark iane's handuriting and printing?

Yes.

I ask you in whose handwriting or printing this is? . In

Mr. Lane's printing.

your initiäls on. the reverse

¿ HITNESS PLACES INITALS P.G. ON REVENSE SIDE.

side, please?

wow, teht us what tests, so-called tests were conducted in

your apartient on January

18th, 1902 in complete detail and just

what you did and what lee did and what Mark did?:

The first

thing was Mr. Lane had his temperature taken.

First he undressed

rimself. as far as the shorts were concerned and then he laid face

down

on the bed and I said,.

"You have to remove your jockey shorts,

too," and he slid them all down and in that I assisted him.

after

that I inserted a candle into Mark anaily.

ifter that I tweezed

some

pubic hair.

And then. Lee then beat Mark with his own belt:

the buttocks.

area

and

Then pins were inserted around the anal wa

into the testicles..

Then he got an enema.

Both of us

gave nim the enema.

I believe held the bag and

I put it in and

then he started

to masterbate after the enema was completely in

nim and he wasn't supposed to relieve himself until äfter he

key masterbated, but he claimed that he had to relieve himself,

so he did, and then when Mark cine back into the room the next

thing on the instruction sheet was for him to masterbate himself

and ät which point he got, Wark, got embarrassed and he decided,

he couldn't. do it and a comment was nade by either Miss Stephens

or ayself that the tests can't continue unless he does it, etc.,

etc.

ind then Miss stephens, because he still said he couldn't

it,

und then he said,

"Do something else,'

" and then he would

do 1t

So then Lée then inserted a candle. into his anus ünd

positive, una then Lee

obscene pictures.

Eefore the pictures,:

suggested the

the first set of pins

it or needles,

whatever you want to câll them, vere just regular

according tó the inscruction sheet.

Mark: was, also

needles; so lee lit the needles

wnen you say you inserted tie needles. were aid you insert

* The same place is before, the testicles and

around the anal opening.

Then it that point; to the best ofony

knowledge, I belleve was when the next instruction was to be for

Mr. Lane

to masterbate. which he still hadn't done

and he lept. on

saying, "You know I can't do it, jou know, I am too embarrassed,"

-3-

DocId: 32311911

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released underithe John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992

744

USc 2107 Hote):

DATE:

11-14-2017

sonething like that und lie asied him if it would oe eusier

if she aid it ünd with that she proceeded

to masterbate his.

Did he reach a climax?

that Lee

suggested. taking the. picuure. and

Fe and I

It was at that point

gut the camera. One

of the pictures showed Maris lying face doim on the bea iith a

candle inserted rectaily.

hother was taken of lee beating nin.

wrother was taken of Mr. Lune on his stomach, not only "ith

candle inserted rectally, out aiso with tho

flowers.

stems oi irtificial

A fourth was taier of Mr. bane together with Lee singiry

singeing the hair on

his tosticles with a lighued match.

I do not

äccurätely recollect

the other iwe pictures thut were taken, but

they were of ü sinilar näture.

"iter à len of the pictures

his hands were tied beiind his

su thät point

believe that ir. Lone was given rocher enena by Niss. Stephens

and it thut point it was 6:00 o'clock.

I left the room

I told Lee that if she wanted to she could continue the tests.

After that I did not see what tool: place in the room.

point I heird from another room what to ne semai sounded like

someone being beaten with & belt.

whether at actually tooù place

or not I don't know.

I wasn't there and there vas a lot of no

noise at all, so, as I said, I don't know what weau on.

Evertually did you go into the room where Murk and lee were?

C. Did you come up to the close proxinity of the roos?

,¿ Yes.

C. And did you see lee at that point? A Yes.

was she dressed or undressed? " She was wearing a to piece

suit.

still had her jacket or and her shirt on but her skirt

was pulled up to her waist und under that she was nude.

Now,

what was the

concition of tart: Lune ät that point?

I wouldn't know, I dian!" see him.

thät did you have à conversation with Lee

as to what

happened while you were dut of that room?

Yes.

what did lee tell you happenca?

iXiNextolaxeX She told

me that after I left that she and lark were looking at the

pictures that had been taken and that she inserted the martini

stirrer into him with the alcohol un it; that she had beaten hin

again and that Mr. Lane made sdvances toward her and that because

she had been aroused by what happened she told re that she had

intercourse with him.

during this incident that you had just described, the

whole incident, did you take pictures? i

Yes.

I show you a phutograb and ask you if that is une of ine

pictures that you took?

Yes.

O Whose picture is that? A Mark Lane!s.

And is there another person's hand in the picture?

Yes.

Who is chat? A Lee Stephens.

@ Hould you kindly

your initials on the reverse

that? i

WITNESS PLACES INITIALS ON REVERSE, SIDE

PICTU E.

DocId: 32311911 Page 5;

---

## Page 6

Releaset

DATE:

11-14÷2017

unet the dolor F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

STATE OF WEN YORK

CITI OF NEW YOR:

COUNTY OF QUEENS

33.:

PHYLLIS DENISE GOlDEN, being duly sworn, deposes

and

says:

That she has read the foregoing questions and

answers and knows the contents thereof. That the questions set

forth above ure the questions that vere put to me by Assistant

District ittorney. Patten and that. the answers üre the answers

I gave to those questions.

That the said answers are true to

her own knowledge except as to the matters therein stated to be

alleged on Information and belief and that as to those matters

she belleves. them to be true.

Sworn to before me this

Ist:day of February, 1962.

---

## Page 7

1992.T11 USC 2107 Note).

ATE :

'я?

BY ASSISTANT DISTRICT ATTORNEY BERNARD M. PATTEN

May

I have your nane and address?

A. Elizabeth lee Stephen-

11 Fifth Avenue, New York.

Q. How old are you Lee? 'À. 24.

Q. Married or single?

h. Single.

Q.. Are you enployed? A. Yes.

Q. By whos?

i..

Pacific Enterprises.

Q. Where 1s that located?. A. Los Angeles..

Why are you in New York? i. I'm their New York representa-

tive.

Where is the New lork office?.

It's an advertising special-

ity company.

They don't need

an office. I'm their office.

НО

Do you operate from your home?

•I use my home, phone and

have closets and

drawers in which: I store samples and papers.

That's all I reed.

Q. Then you do operate fron hone? A: "Yes.

•. Do you know Phyllis Golden?.

A.

Yes.

Q. How long have you known her?

Ao.

Since August or September

Q. Do you know where Phyllis lives? A. Yes.

¿. What is the address? 4. 104-20 Queens Boulevard.

Q. Is that the Parker Towers? A. Yes.

at the Parker. Towers?

he Parker Tover 1962 did You have occasion to

visit phyllis

What time of the day did you arrive there? A. About 2:30,

three o'clock.

&. Some time later did a man come to the apartment:

"Ao.

Yes.

Q." Do you know the name of that man? 'A.: Mark Lane.

Now, after he arrived at the apartment did he request you or

Phyllis, or both of you,

, to do something to him?

He asked

Phyllis to ask me if I wanüed io be a witness to one of his tests.

what kind of tests did he say these were?

These were,

as far

as I knew,

some psychiatrist was running, with taking

the pulse fos the electric chair.

I don't know what

it was about.

Did you

consent to be

& witness?

I didn't

know what to

do and finally i figured it vould be a good idea if I was a

ritness.

Suppose you tell us about what time of that day did that bègin?

Possibly around 3:30, four o'clock.

ALL INFORMATION. CONTAINED

-1-

bit of one slude

---

## Page 8

(Released wider the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

• DATE: 11-14-2017

Q. How soon afüer Maris had arrived did he start? A. Halr hour.

Q.

Tell us just what happened, what he did to you, what you dio

to him, what

he did to Fhyllis

and what Phyllis did

to him?

He undressed and Fhyllis staried out by sticking a candle

in. hás rectura.

Let me interrupt you beiere you go any further.

he given

Phyllis instructions as to what to do?

given Phyllis a list of instructions that she had given to me to

look over, that he wanted hor to give me.

Did you see lark hand those irstructions to Phyliis?

Q..

Did she show you these instructions before he came in?

No, I didn't see them.

She told me they were in his own

writing.

Q: Did Phyllis show you the instruction sheet? A. Yes.

Q..

I show you this piece of paper and ask you what that is?

A .

That is the instructions dark save Phyllis, as far as I know.

Q. Would you put your initials on the reverse side of that piece

of paper?

A.

WITNESS PLACES HER INITIALS E. L. S. ON THE

REVERSE. SIDE OF THE SHDET OF. PAPEF.

6. Start again, tell ne what happened?

dark took off his

clothes.

At first Phyllis, I think the first thing ste did, she

put one. candle with a big end in his rectum and then another

candle with a small end in his rectumn with vaseline and pushed

them ali the way up so that about a loot of candle was in his

Then she plucked hair fron his testicles with tweezers,

and she put a cocktail stirrer in the hole of his penis and then

put alcohol on the cocktail stirier and put 1t in his penis and

then put alcohol on his penis.

And she gave him ar enema and made

him hold the enema in him while he masturbated.

He couldn't

hold it any longer and had io go and relieve hinself.

him with a belt that raised welts on his buttocks.

humiliating pictures of him.

le hid one of the pictures that had

his face in it so we would have it as evidence for something if

we ever needed it.

And we repeated the same bit with the candle,

with the enema, with the cocktail stirrer, with the tweezers and

with hit needles.

We got then hot over a cigarette lighter and

poking

them in his testicles ard his rectum and beating him yith

the belt.

And he wanted us to do it more and nore.

want to stop.

Pretty soon it goù late and Phyllis had to feed her

daughter and she left the room and I started doing these things,

beating him, with the cocktail stirrer, with the alcohol, and

then instead of masturbating he wanted me to masturbate him.

Phyllis and I wanted him out of there, warted to get hin home, so

I thought maybe if he came he would go home.

I tried and the next

thing I knew he was trying to take my clothes off me. He wanted

to make love to me.

He got my clothes half off of me.

I was just

trying nicely to push him away and he had most of my clothes off

Finally I said to hell with it, I'll take them off.. And

Phyllis like came to the door and he told me to tell her not to

come in for a while. So I told her not to come in for a while.

He made love to me.

- 2 .

DocId: 32311911' Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: ' 11-14-2017

Let me intermipt you.

The word making love to me doesn't

mean anything to me.

I want to know what you mean by that ex-

prese unserted lose ensel

Tell is just what he did?

He inserted his penis in my vagina.

Q. Continue?

A. He was trying to do it very saddisticly..

That does not meen anything to ne.

exactly. what you nean

the word saddisticly?

I want you to tell te

He was trying

to force it in very hard to hurt me and

Iwouldn't let him.

tried to out my legs up

In the air so it would hurt me more and i

wouldn't let him.

Finally he stored.

I don't know whether he

reached a climax

or not.

I think he did.

I'm not positive..

reason I'm not positive is because afterwards he kept trying, let

keep getting near me

and trying, to co'it again and 1 wouldn

That's why I think I'm not sure whether he did or not be-

cause he kept trying to do it again and I wouldn't let him.

got aressed and 1, in so many vords, told him that d was very

ashamed with what happened.

I sever wanted to see him again.

told him I didn't want anything lile this to happen again.

@. Alright now,

det me ask. you & few questions.

When you were

giving Mark lane this so called test were either you or Phyllis

No.. I was completely cressed in a suit and Phyllis

had a housecoat on.

Did you show Mark any nudo pictures?

i A.

We showed him the

humiliating picture of himself that we had taken.

Q: Other than that? A. No.

Q.. During the course of this test I take it you did take some

pictures?

Phyllis has a vase. with long stem flowers

in li and we stuck them in his rectum and we took pictures o1 thaï

And also during

the test he wanted us to use our imagination for

things, so I used my imagination.

In what way?

I took matches and set fire to the hair

around his rectum and testicles.

Q. Did both you and Phyllis take pigtures?. A. Yes.

Qo liket kind of camera does Phyllis havo?' A. Polaroide,

Q. I show you this photograph and ask you if you ever saw it

before?

This is the

one picture that I know of for sure that

we got with his face in it.

Q. Who took that picture? i. Phyllis.

2. I direct

picture and Test

attentior to a hand in the lover part of the

ask you whose haná that is?

It must be my

hard.

And what are you doing at the time?

:A: I imagine I'm stick-

ing needles in his testicles.

Hot needles.

ra Would you

out your initials on the reverse side of that photo-

WITNESS PLICES HER INITIALS E. L. S. ON THE REVERSE

SIDE OF THE PHOTOGRAPH.

-3-

DocId:32311911 Page

9

---

## Page 10

DATE :

11-14-2017

after Phyllis went into the baby's room

to give the baby

her bottle •

She took the baby into the kitchen to

cook supper, for her.

l.. You were left alone with Mark, is thiat correct?

A. Yes.

Q.

And I understend that eventually you became nude too?

A.

•Yes.

You toldne before he had saxual relations with you, 1s

that

correct?

Yes.

Did he have sexual relations with vou in an unnatural manner,

or attempt to have relations in an unnatural manner, and 1i so,

how?

A:

lie had relations with me in a somewhat natural nanner

to the extent that he did it naturally but tiled very much to nurt

to Insert it in my rectua, buick is unnatural.

Previously he tried to hurt me and attempted

@. Did he succeed? A. No, I rerusedoto let him.

Did he place his penis in the proximity of your rectum?

I believe

50..

Did he

manner?

a'quest you to have unnatural relations is any other

What did he say to you and what did you say to him and

what did ho do!

He reguüsted

me to place my south on his

penis and I told him he was out of his mind..

a the instructions that he gavi

uest you to use the belt on hin

and Phyllis, did he re-

Yes.

Did you or Phyllis do so? d. Yes.

there did you get the belt from?

His belt. Fron his

pants.

with it.

And how did you or Phyllis use it?: A. Beating on his buttocks

Q. Who did that? A.. I d1d.:

1: At anytime during this orgy, did you or phyllis tie his hands?

Phyllis tied his hands.

Q•

Where? A.

Behind his back, right after the beginning of it

at his request.

Q. " And were his hands tied to any fired position? A. Just

behind his back and not too securely.

@ And was that pursuant to his instructions also?

A. Yes.

:: 4-

---

## Page 11

Released

DATE:

STATE OF NEW YORK

CITY OF NEW YORK

COUNTY OF QUEENS

SS.:

ELIZABETH LEE STEPHENSON, being duly sworn, deposes and

says:

That she has read the foregoing questions and answers

and knows the contents thereof. That the same is true to her

own knowledge except as to the matters therein stated to be

alleged on information and belier and that as to those matters

she believes it to be true.

Sworn to before me this

30th day of January, 1962

---

## Page 12

egy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USt 2107 Hotel.

DATE

ALSO

Repent eNtiRe instructions from last. Test.

Keep his hawds securely ties dora goid portion or

testa

Show:

him very: hamlistend pietuies.

use, weadles veng Creeky any cleapin

Opan: Vectal: Aves wiled, than in past.

Use belt' ou buttocks

usa, alcohol in penis.

45e

penus enemas with signinge.

ten to enging Methods and toot 4slid youk

imaGinator that will bring' about

maximum pulse Reaction

Make sue that he masturbatos. Three

bring about that recury.

At one poiut. Qufine the lest Secure his

howas beard his back - the his feet

to. some

immovable obiect-.aud Strap

him with a belt with queat ingoin

just: caNNot stand it My loNger.

At oNe point lie his haude sorry

boling his back a hane tim frieu,

or desk of table of bouch wiTh legs

aNd iNsant into testicles ?

hot reedles: Toke palie arro

each

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DAE 6/6/47 6151268-

DocId: 32311911

Page."

---

