# docid-32309466

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10298-10253

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-1693-16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

• TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/27/1961

3

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

INTERPEN, GPH, AKA, ACA, TRAINING CAMP,

ANTI-COMMUNISTS LEGIONNAIRES

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 53074 DocId: 32309466

Page 1

27

Date:

5/27/201

Released under

the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USe 2107 Note!.

Case# :WW 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

---

## Page 2

Toissa

Been

ELDERAL BUREAD OF 12

Q. S. DEPARALNI

COMMO RICHAR

MANITOE

JUN?

1961T10N

TELSTYPE

10r.

Iva

1.02

Ivie

Boss.

Duli va

T...

237d1

AX'.

'Trot'

Tele. Rocai

Tr. lagre

Migs Ganes

6-27-61

10-24

PM EST

EEF

DIRECTOR, FBI 2-1693

FROM SAC, MIAMI 2-312 3P

ANTI-COMMUNIST LEGIONNAIRES. NM.: RETELCALL FROM F• BAUMGARDNER AT

BUREAU TO MM SIX TWENTY SEVEN SIXTYONE AND MM LETS FIVE ELEVEN AND EIGH-

ASSIFIED

DECI

TEEN SIXTYONE. RE MM LETS SET FORTH NAMES JERRY LNU, HENNING, HANNON,

AND GERALD PATRICK HENNING. ALL THESE NAMES HAVE BEEN DETERMINED TO BE

IDENTICAL WITH GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, AKA BUFILE ONE ZERO FIVE DASH

EIGHT SIX FOUR ZERO SIX. MM HERALD NEWSPAPER ON SIX TWENTYSEVEN

SIXTYONE CARRIED ARTICLE SAYING THAT INTERCONTINENTAL PENETRATION

FORCE/ INTERPEN/ IS ANTI-COMMUNIST GROUP IN MM SEEKING WAR AND

ADVENTURE AND EXISTANCE OF GROUP MADE KNOWN BY FLA. SENATOR GEORGE

A. SMATHERS ON SIX TWENTYFIVE SIXTYONE ON A NATIONWIDE RADIO NET-

WORK. ARTICLE SAYS HEMMING, HEAD OF INTERPEN LOOKS LIKE ACTOR ERROL

"FLYNN, ADMITS TRAINING FOR ACTION AGAINST FIDEL CASTRO AND TO TRAIN

CURAN REBELS. HEMMING CLAIMED HE HAS CAMP IN TLA. EVERGLADES AND

DENIES VIOLATION OF NEUTRALITY LAWS.

SAYS CLEAN ON

56 JIN ENG WAS A BARACKUTE JUMP BY EZGHT OR MINE, INTEREY MEMBERS

дрена Ваніт

КОбіри

6-28.61

NW 53074 DooId: 32309466 Page 2

---

## Page 3

BEGIN PAGE TWO

ON SIX TWENTYFOUR SIXTYONE AT SOUTH FLA. AIRFIELD, AND INTERPEN

HAS ASOUT HUNDRED MEMBERS JUN SIX THREE NANDASS S MAINTAINS

COMPLETE COVERAGE OF THIS ORGANIZATION AND IS ADVISOR TO HEMMING. J

(n.)

INFORMANT SAYS ANTI-COMMUNISTS LEGIONNAIRES ALSO USES NAME

INTERPEN, HAS ONLY FIFTEEN TO TWENTY MEMBERS WHO ARE MERCENARIES,

VAGRANTS, ADVENTURERS, AND UNRELIABLE DELINQUENIS WHOSE AVERAGE IS

ABOUT TWENTYTWO YEARS OLD. THERE IS HIGH TURNOVER IN INTERPEN MEMBER-

SHIP, NO TRAINING CAMP IS NOW MAINTAINED, BUT PERIODICALLY THEY GO

INTO EVERGLADES FOR ONE OR TWO DAYS TO IMPRESS CUBANS AND VENEZUELANS

HOPING. TO GET MONEY DONATIONS: HEMMING AND GROUP DRESS IN ARMY COMBAT

CLOTHES, WEAR BEARDS, ARE FREQUENTLY SEEN ON MM STREETS, AND ARE A

POLICE PROBLEM. HEMMING HAS VISITED MOST ALL CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY

ORGANIZATIONS SEEKING DONATIONS, OFFERING HIS SERVICES, BUT HAS BEEN

REFUSED BY THE CUBANS. PARACHUTE JUMP ON SIX TWENTYFOUR SIXTYONE WAS

AT DAVIE, FLA. TO COLLECT MONEY DONATIONS FROM DIFFERENT INVITED

REPRESENTATIVES OF DIFFERENT CUBAN ORGANIZATIONS. INTERPEN MEMBERS .

ARE BROKE, HUNGRY, AND BEG FOOD FROM CUBAN GROCERY STORES. FRECENTLY

THEY GOT ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY DOLLARS WORTH OF FOOD FROM SOME

VENÈZUELAY REPRE BENTATIVE OF MARIOS PEROZ UNAIREZ PAPER VINEZUELIN

END PAGE TWO

NW 53074 DooId: 32309466 Page 3

---

## Page 4

BEGIN PAGE THREE

(8(2)

*DICTATOR LIVING IN MMO INTERPEN SEEKS PUELICITY, HAS NO ARMS OR EQUIP-

MENT OR TRANSPORTATION AND IS NOT ACCEPTED IN THE CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY

MOVEMENT• INFORMANT ANTICIPATES NO EXPEDITIONS BY INTERPEN IN NEAR

FUTURE. LETTERHEAD MEMO FOLLOWING.

END AND ACK PLS

WA 11-32 PM OK FBI WA ELR

53074 DocId: 32309466

Page 4

---

