# docid-32295423

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10215-10199

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3267-621

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

LEG, RO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/30/1964

9

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/15/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM, 3 CERTIFICATES, ENV

v9.1

DocId: 32295423

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John V. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USS 2107' Note).

• DATE: "11-14-2017

OF-10

Office Memor indum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Director, FBI (92-3267)

Rome (92-100) (RUC)

DATE:

9/30/64

SUBJECT:

JOHN ROSELLI, aka

ANTI-RACKETEERING.

Re Los Angeles airtel 7/16/64 enclosing letterhead

memorandum of same date captioned PHILLIPO SACCO, aka Philip

Sacco, Filipo Sacco.

Enclosed for the Bureau is a letterhead memorandum

captioned PHILLIPO SACCO, aKa.

This information was provided

by the Central Bureau, Criminal Division, Italian National

Police, Rome, Italy, on 9/24/64.

Also enclosed are the following:

(1) Copy of a birth certificate for FILIPPO SACCO,

DOB 7/4/05

(2)

Copy of a birth certificate for VINCENZO SACCO,

DOB 11/9/1884

(3)

Copy of a birth certificate for MARIA ANTONIA

PASCALE, DOB 12/6/1882

ANCLOSURE ATTACK,

5 - Bureau (Encls.-10)

(1 - Foreign Liaison) (Encl.-1)

(2 - Los Angeles 92-113 G)

1 - Rome (92-100)

TJB:mer

(6)

Kopy of letter. +

LAM

* Bestin

1 cop

sert

OCT 9

1964

EX-114

+: 6292-3267-621

• QCT 5

1364

DocId: 32295423

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC,2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

September 30, 1964

PHILLIPO SACCO, aka

Philip Sacco,

Filipo Sacco

The Central Bureau, Criminal Division, Italian

Intimation in peer: 24,

Italy, furnished the following

1964 •

PHILLIPO SACCO was born in Esperia (Frosinone),

Italy, on July 4, 1905, the son of VINCENZO SACCO and

MARIANTONIA PASCALE SACCO.

Investigation discloses that PHILLIPO SACCO

immigrated to the United States in either 1906 or 1907 with

his parents.

It was not possible to determine on what ship

the SACCO family left Italy for the United States. No

photographs of the PHILLIPO SACCO family are available.

It is not known whether VINCENZO SACCO was an

Italian citizen at the time of his death.

Information obtained from aged members of the

community discloses that presumably the following are

relatives of SACCO:

OLGA CARDILLO, niece - not further identified.

BARTOLOMEO SACCO, grand nephew - not further

identified.

ENOLONS MA

92-3267-6271

DocId: 32295423

Page 3

---

## Page 4

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

September 30,

1064

PRILLIPO

• BACCO, ala

Philip Sacco:

Filipo Sacco

The Central Bureau,

Crininal Division,

Itallan

National Police, Rome, Italys

furnished

the

following

Information on

Septenbor 24g

1964.

PRILLIPO SACCO was born in Esperia (Irosiaone),

Italy, on July 6, 1903, the son of VINCENZO SACCO and

MARIAVIONZA PASCALE EACCO.

Investigation

discloses that PHILLIPO SACCe

Inmigrated to the United States in either 1906 or 1907 with

his parents.

It was

not possible to determine on what ship

the

BACCO fanily loit Italy for the United Blates.

photographs of the PHILLIPO SACCO fanily are available.

It is not know whether VINCENZO SACCO was an

Italian eitizen at the timo of his death.

Intomation obtainod fron aged members of the

conmunity discloses

that prosumably the following are

relatives of SACCO:

OLGA CARDILLO, niece - not further identified.

BARTOLOMEC SACCO, grand nephew - not further

identifiod.

92-3267-621

DocId: 32295423

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC. 2107 Mote).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

+*

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

Boptenbor 80, 1904

PAIGLIPO SACCO, aLa

Ph111p

• Sacco,

Filipo Bacco

Tho

Contral Bureau, Criminal Divicion, Italian

National Police, Romo, tEasy.

furnished the following

Antomation on Septeaber 25g 1906.

PHILLIO SACCO won born in Toperia (Erosinone),

Italy, on July 4,

1905 g

the son of VINCENZO BACCO And

MARIANIONIA PASCALE

SACCO,

Investigation discloses that PIM IPO BACCO

immigrated to

• She

United Sintes in elther 1906 or 1907 with

his parcuto.

It was not poseible to determine on what ship

the

SACCO family left Italy Sor the United States.

photographs of tho PAULIPO SACCO family are availablo.

It is not known whether VINCENZO SACCO was an

Itallen citizen at the

time of his death.

Interation obtained from aged nombers of the.

oomunity disclones that prommably the tolloning are

relatives of BACCO:

OLGA CARDILZO, eloco - not further identified,

BARTOLOIEO SACCO, grand nephew - not further

idontiftod..

92-3267-621

DocId: 32295423

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Recorde Collection Act of 1992 414 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF •STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

September 30, 1801

PHILLIPO SASCO, QEO

Phally Sacco,

Filipo Baceo

Tho Contral Bureau,

Crimianl Division, Itallas

National Police, Rone,

Italy,

furnished the following

Information on

Septonbes 20 g

196k

DRILLIDO SACCO Tag

born in Esporia (Frostono) ,

Staly, on July 6,

1905, the eon of VICiO

BACCO onc

MARIAVIONIA PASCALE BACCO,

Investigation diselosos that PHILLIDO SACCO

immigrated to

the United Statos in elther 1906 or 1907 with

hie

parents:

It vas not possible to determine os vat ship

the

BACCO Mam11y left Italy

• for the United States.

photographs of the PHILLIPO SACCO Snaily are available»

It le not knom wether VINCINZO SACCO veg sa

Itollen estlzen at

the tine of his death.

Intomation obtaiood fron ngod menberg of the

commity dieszcaes

that prosumably tho following are

relatives of SACcO:

OUGA CARDILLO, noco • not further

Identified.

BARPOLOITO SACCO, grand nephew - not furthes

adentified.

92-3267-621

DocId: 32295423

Page

---

## Page 7

Released wier the

DATE: 11-14-2017

Renneny Assasstration Records

Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hotel.

COMUNE

DI ESPERIA

PROVINCIA DI FROSINONE

CERTIFICATO DI NASCITA

L'UFFICIALE DELLO STATO CIVILE

CERTIFICA

risultare dal registro degli atti di hascita dell'anno 1905

Serie

N. 32

che nel gioreo

Quattro

del mese

dell'anno Millenovecentocingue-

Parte. I

di luglio

è sato a ESPERIA:

Sacco Filippo da Vincenzo e da Pascale Mariantonia

Si rilascia a richiesta in carta libera per uso Carabinieri

ESPERIA, 11 28/8/964

TUFmUFALE ILIO STATO CIVILE

1/0

Cove Biosti,

DocIA: 32295473

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kenedy desassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14. U5C 2107 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

• COMUNE

DI ESPERIA

PROVINCIA DI FROSINONE

CERTIFICATO DI NASCITA

L'UFFICIATE DELLO STATO CIVILE

CERTIFICA

risultare dal registro degli atti di nascita dell'amno

1884 Parte_

Serie_-

_N. 17 che sel giorno Nove xxxxxxxx del mese di Novembre

dell'anndilleottocentottantaquattro-

è nato a ESPERIA:

Sacco Vincenzo Federico da Filippo o da Colozzi Teresa

Si rilascia a richiesta in carta libera per uso Carabinieri

ESPERIA, A,11_ 28/8/964

TORAMA DELLO STATO CIVILE

DocId: 32295423

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Mote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

COMUNE

DI ESPERIA

PROVINCIA DI FROSINONE

CERTIFICATO DI NASCITA

L'UFFICIATE DELIO STATO CIVILE

CERTIFICA

risultare dal registro degli atti di

fascita dell 'anno

Serie

- N° 54 che sel giorao

Sei

del mese

1882

Parte 1

di Dicembre

dell amnollilleottocentt tantadue-

è sato a ESPERIA:

Pascale Maria Antonia Concetta da Giacomo e da Montesanto Caterina

Si rilascia a richiesta in carta libera per uso Carabinieri

ESPERIA, 11_

28/8/964

L'UFFICIALE

DELLO STATO CIVITE

(

DoCId: 32295423 Page 9

---

