# docid-32108330

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

: CIA

: 104-10013-10188

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 201-289248

Released under the John

• Kennedy

Mosasslnation hecorde

Collection Act

of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

06-06-2017

June 24, 1996

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 21

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponement # 1 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that

might be withheld under Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act. The Board is awaiting additional evidence from

the CIA, at which time it will reconsider the postponement.

Substitute Language: CIA Employee

Review Date: 05/1997

Postponement # 2 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that

might be withheld under Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act. The Board is awaiting additional evidence from

the CIA, at which time it will reconsider the postponement.

Substitute Language: CIA Employee

Review Date: 05/1997

Postponement # 3 (Page 1):

HH 53199 DocId: 32108330

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that

might be withheld under Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act. The Board is awaiting additional evidence from

the CIA, at which time it will reconsider the postponement.

Substitute Language: CIA Employee

Review Date: 05/1997

Board Review Completed: 05/14/96

HH 53199

DocId: 32108330

Page

2

---

## Page 3

Date: 06/21/96

Page:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10013-10188

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

CIA

FROM

: MEXICO CITY

TO :

DIRECTOR, CIA

TITLE :

REES OBVIOUSLY CROSSED. IN STATION VIEW OF DANGERS PARA 3, LARGELY

RECOGNIZED IN REF A, STILL APPLY.

DATE :

PAGES

SUBJECTS

09/25/64

4

PHOTO OPS

LIMESA

LIONION

LICOWL

LIEMPTY

PHOTOS

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECREA

RESTRICTIONS :

1A

CURRENT

STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

06/28/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

OSW17:V4B 1993.06.28.11:21:00:930410:

IRI - ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

HN 53199

Doc1d:32108330

Page

---

## Page 4

FORM. 1304 0

• (44)

ORIG.:

EXT.:

R.L. EASBY

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DISTR

Commo

Chrono (dummy)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS"

DTG.

DATE: 25 September 1964

FILE::

P-85.93

LIMESA

LIQNION

LICOWL

LIEMPTY

NUMBER

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

TO IMMEDIATE DIR

PRIORITY

XX.

OPERATIONAL

• IMMEDIATE

INFO

INITIALS

RYBAT GPFLOOR

REF:

A..

DIR 52398 (IN 2394)

B. MEXI-1011

CITE. MEXId

Dup S

NUMBER

87

8-898

1.

REFS OBVIOUSLY CROSSED. IN STATION VIEW DANGERS PARA 3,

LARGELY RECOGNIZED IN REF A, STILL APPLY.

ONLY REMAINING HOPE WOULD APPEAR BE TO GET ASCHAM

PREVAIL ON COMMISSION NOT ONLY RETOUCH BACKGROUND IN PHOTOS

BUT ALSO RETOUCH FACE TO DEGREE OBVIOUSLY NOT IDENTIFIABLE

WITH RUBY BUT ALSO NOT WITH ACTUAL SUBJECT OF PHOTO.

3. IF NEITHER SUPPRESSION NOR EFFECTIVE ALTERATION POSSIBLE,

STATION PLANS EVACUATE LIMITED, LILYRIC, LICALLA, RECENT LICOWL

INSTALLATION AND LIMESA PROPERTIES OF ALL GEAR ON PHASED BASIS

soon

white

6. 8593

Love

nи 29 SEPL

підня ви

nei M 305ejt

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECREF

SPICER

CLASSIFICATION

TH 53199 . DocId: 32108330 Page 4

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFiCER

---

## Page 5

FORM. | 304

1195%

:.(44)

ORIG.

EXT.:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

DISTR.

Page 2

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

FILE:

DEFERRED.

ROUTINÉ

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS:

NUMBER

INITIALS

TO

INFO:

CITE

BEGINNING WITH LIMITED 25 SEPT AND OTHERS 26 AND 27 SEPT.

1019

NUMBER

* SCANTLING AND GERENDE, WHO STAND BE PERSONALLY COMPROMISED

IN ANY SERIOUS POLICE INVESTIGATION,BEING CONSULTED 25 SEPT FOR

ADVICE ON BEST WAY APPROACH BASE HOUSE KEEPERS WITH LEAST

AMOUNT OF ALARM AND GREATEST REASSURANCE: THIS WILL HAVE TO

BE PLAYED BY EAR DEPENDING ON PERSONALITY INDIVIDUALS CONCERNED.

ALL WILL BE REASSURED MAXIMUM EFFORTS PREVENT ANY OFFICIAL

INVESTIGATION THROUGH TOP LEVEL INTERVENTION. WILL BE OFFERED

FINANCIAL INCENTIVES WHERE PERTINENT. ALL WILL BE URGED CONTINUE

PRESENT ACTIVITY PATTERN. SINCE SAME PHOTO SUBJECT NOTED AT

PBRUMEN EMBASSY ABOUT MONTH LATER, ALSO EVACUATING LIONION

BASE HOUSE AND SENDING OCCUPANTS AWAY FOR WEEK ON PRETEXT.

4. AT FIRST SIGN OFFICIAL PROTEST STATION PREPARED APPROACH

LITEMPO 4 AND LITALK I ON PRINCIPLE THAT KNOWLEDGE OF COVERAGE

PREFERABLE THERE TO GRASS ROOTS LEVEL OF POLICE. THIS WOULD

ALSO IN STATION JUDGMENT BE BEST INSURANCE THAT IF PRO FORMA

POLICE INVESTIGATION NECESSARY AS RESULT DIPLOMATIC PROTEST IT

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

HY 53199 DocId: 32108330 Page 5

CLASSIFICATION

RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

---

## Page 6

FosM, 13045

(44)

ORIG::

EXT.:

DISTR.:

Page 3.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

_ INITIAL'S

DTG:

INITIALS

DATE

FILE:

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE:

NUMBER

TO

INFO:

CITE

1019

NUMBER

WOULD BE ONLY PRO FORMA. OBJECT IS TO PREVENT ACTUAL ARREST

ANY BASE HOUSE KEEPERS OR DOMESTICS ON THEORY THAT ONCE IN

STATION HOUSE AND SUBJECT USUAL POLICE METHODS HERE THEY WOULD

LIKELY TELL ALL THEY KNEW OR SUSPECTED. CONVERSELY, ONCE

FAMILY MEMBERS ARRESTED, MUST ASSUME OTHER FAMILY MEMBERS

SITTING DUCKS FOR POLICE INTERROGATION IN ÖRDER PROTECT ARRESTEE.

BELIEVE ABOVE MORE REALISTIC THAN PHYSICAL SECURITY PER PARA 5 C

REF A. DOUBT SOVS WOULD CHANCE STRONGARM METHODS HERE.

5. PREPARATIONS FOR ABOVE EVACUATION ALREADY UNDERWAY

URGENTLY REQUEST FINAL WORD BY COB 25 SEPT SO MAY PROCEED.

Rec

46. EVACUATION ACTION RE DIZTAG ANE

UMENT TARGETS

WILL BE DEFERRED PENDING REACTIONS NOTED BY SOVS.

7. WISH RECORD THAT COS PRESENT AT MEETING WITH CHIEF

PBSWING AND COMMISSION STAFFERS WHEN IN RESPONSE TO FORMERS

ÄNXIETY RE REPERCUSSIONS FROM PUBLIC AIRING KUBARK FACILITIES

MEXI, MR. COLEMAN ASSURED THAT ALL ITEMS IN REPORT WOULD HAVE

PRIOR APPROVAL OF KUBARK. THIS RECORDED IN HMMA-23249, PARA 4. *

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

ITHENTICATING OFFICER

DacId: 32100330 Page 6

CLASSIFICATION

RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

---

## Page 7

• FORM

11.97 21:304

•(44)

1:91

ORIG.:

EXT::

DISTR.:

OZHORAMI

• TO

Page 4

DEFERRED.

ROUTINE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEGRET

CLASSIFICATION

ANITIALS:

OTG:

INITIALS

DATE:

FILE:

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INFO:

CITE

8. REQUEST URGENT REPLY PARA 2 AND 5 REF B.

END OF MSG

NUMBER

1018

NUMBER

R. L. EASBY

•HENTICATING OFFICER

DooId: 32108330 Pagé 7

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

W.C.CURTIS

RELEASING OFFICER

---

