# docid-32287341

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10197-10117

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-29-442

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/14/1962

2

THP, MIAMI MEETING, PROPOSED "HIT", ON ESPOSITO,

FRANK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32287341 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under

the John F. Kennedy

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

1-41 (Rov. 6-2-61)

Assass1nat1on Records CoTec

"of

DECODED COPY

Radio

‹ Teletype

1992 144 USC 210

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

oload

Evans

Malone

RoSen,-

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy

URGENT

12-14-62 2-42 PM MHO

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC CHICAGO

FROM SAC MIAMY

141634

ANTRA REFRERG MEETING OF HOODLUMS,

MIAN LORIDA, FEBRUARY, 1'9,

1966.

RE MIAMI TELETYPES 12, 13, AND 14 INSTANT AND TELEPHONE

CALLS BY SAC GRAPP TO BUREAU TODAY. MY 594-C# ADVISED INDPVIDUALS

MEI AI PRESENT MIAMI RESIDENCE OF JACK

PROPOSED "HIT" OF FRANK.

INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN CONTEMPLATED

INDIVIDUAL CALLED LES, BELIÉVED TO BE LES KRUSE, CHICAGO HOODLUM,

AND A GTH TO DATE UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUAL. FOLLOWING DISCUSSION

EVENING OF 13 LAST 6 INDIVIDUALS OBSERVED DEPARTING RESIDENCE IN

TWO AUTOMOBILES.

INFORMANT REPORTED PURPOSE OF DEPARTURE WAS

TO "TAKE A RIDE" TO LOOK OVER THE ROUTE THEY WOULD TAKE DURING

THE "HIT! CONVERSATION INDICATED SPOT PICKED FOR DISPOSAL OF

VICTIM WOULD NECESSITATER THEIR TRAVEL ON MAIN HIGHWAY AND TRAVEL

TO DANIA, FLORIDA. DANIA IS ADJOING CITY NORTH OF HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA.

INDIVIDUALS WERE APPARENTLY GOING OVER DIAGRAM OF MAP AND DISCUSSING

NECESSARY TRIP IN THAT AFTER THEY GRABBED VICTIM "WE GOT A HOT ONE,

WE GOT TO GO TO DANIA (DANIA, FLORIDA). YOU CANT COME BACK TOWARD

THE BEACH, THEY ARE GOING TO GIVE YOU A RAP FOR COMING BACK HERE,

INDICATIONS WERE THEY HAD FOLLOWED VICTIM FOR TWO DAYS AND HAD

DETERMINED FROM HIS ACTIVITY WHERE THEY ARE GOING TO FORCE HIM

IN THE CAR. INFORMANT REPORTS THESE INDIVIDUALS RENTED BOAT

YESTERDAY, COULD CHOP UP VICTIM WITH AX, TAKE HIM TO OCEAN IN BOAT

AND DISPOSE OF PIECES. VICTIM IDENTIFIED AS FRANK S, ESPOSITO,

* LAST, NAME UNKNOWN

REC- 45

102-

442

ĐX 10!

MR. BELMONT FOR THE DIRECTOR

2F52 241962

62 MAR

5 1962

f the intelligence contained in the above message is to

be disseminated outside the Bureau, it issuggested that it be suitably

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32287341 Page 2

---

