# docid-32294126

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

*Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10212-10402

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-518

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, SF

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

10/23/1963

5

LCN, THE CLIQUE, LEADERSHIP, MEMBERS, RULES,

CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32294126

Page 1

---

## Page 2

refeased under the John F. Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 Ust 2107 Hotey

• DATE: 11-14-2017

OF HIONAL FORM NO. 10

1ẠY 1962 EDITION

5010-106-05

SA GEN. REG. NO. 2

UNITED STATES G

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

DATE: October 23, 1963

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (92-593) (P)

SUBJECT:

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR; CONSPIRACY

Re Bulet dated October 11, 1963..

Enclosed for the Bureau are seven (7) copies of

a Letterhead Memorandum reporting the results of interview with

Former KC 254-C on October 15, 1963.

Enclosed for the Kansas City Office are three (3)

copies of the above Letterhead Memorandum.

On October 15, 1963, Former KC 254-C was inter-

viewed in accordance with the request from the Department as

set forth in the letter attached to referenced Bulet.

It is to be noted that in order to protect the

Informant's identity the Letterhead Menorandum does not reflect

his name and further the location of writing the Letterhead

Memorandum has been set forth as Washington 25, D:C.

UNREC COPY AND COPY OF ENCI FILED II 137-3897-

A CCs:

4 -

Bureau (ENCLS. 6) (REG. MAIL)

92-6054)

(1 - 137-3897) (ENCL. 1)

3 - Kansas City (ENCLS.

2) (REG. MAIL)

(2: - La Cosa Nostra)

(1- 137-1260) (ENCL. 1)

92-6054-518

2 - San Francisco

(1

- 92-593)

РЕС

(1- 137-2186)

• ост 18 1963

HKM: PP

(9)

BONEX 115:

sentr

10/28/6

leeded

ENCLOSURE

4 NOV

195

DocId: 32294126 Page 2

---

## Page 3

released under. the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USE 2TUy Aptey

• DATE: 11-14-2017

RE: THE CLIQUE

Kansas City, Missouri

Informant related that under CIVELLA is a grouD

of men who control the activities of "The Clique"

and who set

the policy of operation.

He advised that there is no special

name given to this group of men and it is their job to handle

gambling, labor,

Each man-has his own followers and in

turn these individuals are responsible to only one man but they

can be used by the other leaders if necessary. Any robbery,

burglary of other type of criminal act must be cleared first

by the individual's leader and if a crime is committed without

this approval the individual man may be made to return whatever

he had stolen and if he failed to heed the warning he could be

killed.

The leaders of this group only report to NICK CIVELLA

and 1I a problem arises that requires a higher decision, CIVELLA

will then take, this matter up with "The Men at the Bakery."

This procedure is followed right down the line to where hustlers

and sneak thieves have to ask permission.

He stated that this

is how "The Clique" controls all of the men in their group.

Informant advised that he has never heard the

-term, "our

•never

friend", or "my friend", used as he was instructed

to identify anyone as being connected with "The Clique."

He stated that he was never made a member of "The Clique" and,

therefore, is unable to have any knowledge of terms used after

a person becomes a member.

to be a member of "The Clique" you did have to have a Godfather

to sponsor you but he has no knowledge of any other requirements

or ritual pertaining to the initiation.

He added that those

connected with this group all grew up together in the same

neighborhood, attended school

together, hung around together

and so you were always "on trial" and being watched in every-

thing you did or said.

Informant stated that he was close to NICK CIVELLA

and only had to report to him and this was based on the fact

that his father was a very close friend of "The Men at the Bakery."

Informant stated that he has never heard any of the members called

"soldiers" nor has he heard the term of "caporegime"

or the term

"button men" used.

Informant stated that several years ago he was

playing golf with NICK CIVELLA and a stranger joined in the group.

He stated that this man was later identified to the Informant as

"The Man". from St., Louis, JOH

VITALE, but he was not introduced

- 2

DocId: 32294126

Page 3

---

## Page 4

-teasen under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 US& 2107 Note).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

RE :

THE CLIQUE,

Kansas City, Missouri

to him. Informant further stated that on several occasions he

saw TONy

ACCARDO/ of Chicago in the company of NICK CIVELLA, but

again he was not introduced to ACCARDO and he, ACCARDO, was

identified to him as "The Man" from Chicago.

He stated that

several months after the Apalachin meeting he was told that JOE

FILARDO and NICK CIVELLA had attended the Apalachin meeting.

Informant said that "they" only told you what they wanted you to

know and you never ask questions.

He stated that JOE CUSUMANO was the Godfather of

his brother and that is why the close ties existed between the

Informant and 'The Men at the Bakery."

Informant stated that he has reviewed and heard

on television the accounts of the testimony given by JOE VALACHI

and he feels that because CIVELLA and FILARDO attended the

Apalachin meeting there must be some connection between "The

Clique" and the Cosa Nostra as described by VALACHI.

He

stated that he has no evidence whatsoever to prove that there

is such a connection, nor was he ever given any information to

indicate that members of both organizations associated with each

other except for the visits of VITALE and ACCARDO..

Kansas City group

of the Cosa Nostra that such assistance and cooperation would

be given.

- 3%:-.

DocId: 32294126

Page 4

---

