# docid-32344345

## Page 1

Date: 11/29/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

...

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10055-10119

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

--Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53199 Date:

06-06-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : OPEN

FROM

TO

TITLE

NEWSPAPER ARTICLE: CIA WASHINGTON VITAL INTELLIGENCE

FROM WARREN COMMISSION.

DATE: 10/21/1984

PAGES

:

1

SUBJECTS : PRESS CLIPPING

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPEF

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

CUT EYES BE IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

COMMENTS : JFK7: F25: 1993.07.09.14:40:49:430410

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10055-10119

HH 53199

DocId: 32344345

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Inside Washington

2100164

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War r

By ROBERT S. ALLEN

cials who aetirely oppose

And PAUL SCOTT

*Soviet

-on Firs yet

to

De

used

policies.

against

any

high

West-

dismissal of such persons

liquid.or

Titled

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

"Soviet Strategic

Executive

ern official, hundreds of

from public office, at oth.

-The

Central Intelli.

Action,"

form

The

times

the

KGB agents

er

suppressed

CIA

docu-

covertly op.

even having

erating outside of Russia

them "eliminated' physt

'Within" seco

autopsy.wou

gence

Agency

withheld

ment went into the shock-

vital

intelligence

cally.

have

infor-

ing details of how agents. this

been supplied with

"Such

its

use.

No

mation

from

the

Warren

activities

of KGB, the Soviet secret

pocket-size

gun,

awaiting onl

orders

'known

are poisons have

to be undertaken

Commission during its in-

ed which do

police, are trained to do

against

from Moscow to

other

use it.

types of

fect

vestigation

the

until -s

assas.

away with Western lead-

sination. of President

The

Murder

Weapons

persons in the West, not.-after being :

ers,

Kennedy.

including officials in

HIGHLIGHTS of

ably

defectors from

the

the-

U.S.S.R.

"thus allowin

the

U.S.

and

to

make

and from

Despite

th-e-

suppressed intelligence

countries

other • to be far fro

commis

their

deaths appear due

of the

sion's written request for

estimate, which is locked

bloc.

Soviet - when

his vic

to natural causes.

all documents that might

in a

security area within

• "A'know

shed light

on

One of the KGB's new.

the

tightly guarded

ntly reported

the

assag

devised

source

has

assassination

are

as

follows:

technique is

pneumaticall

sination,

CIA

authorities

wapons:-is. "a: phumati

failed to turn

has

è an Individ.

over a na-

cally.

been reported

poison

tional

intelligence

esti

'atomizer,"

operated poison ice. that the KGS

ice

Turing

him

to

which

mate

which leaves

warning

that it

is

• 110

wound

or:

merthe, tatel

- Parents as

a telephone,

leaves

connect-

other

ed to a high-voltage wire,

or other

evic

inceres

-cause of dea

Kreralin policy to remove

dence

of the

ed by

ers of West.

during a thunderstorm

Congressio

rom public office by

as-

death.-

emments;

• "Another involves

gators,

sassination

Western

ofti-

While.th

anging

for the projects a poison which committee

who

the nar

mation

SOR:

мегу

stress

have

this-

been

CLA

Diber

doc

ments

pressed

by the State

ament had

able for

stads

They

point

the State

but

that

Parmeni

suppressei

Oswald

evidence link-

its.

with. one of

empioyes,

cording to security. files, :

"presented

Soviet views

strong pro

.on

question

every

that

rame. u

the Department

U.S.S.R. country .commit.

fee"

while

member.

he was f

Wais

dificial's

State Department

peared

in me also

the

ap.

book of a suspected

address

viet

ageat

in the

arrived

U.S. in

145, 72d

cording

files.

to - government

Congressional

investi

gators

also have • been

shocked to discover that

dent

ohnson

While

FBI

officiak

warned

Speaker

McCor

mack,

dedicated

Communist, that

anti

tha

list of

Western

he is On

ofEl-

cials feared by

the

Krem

Im,

По

CLA

has shown the No. 2

autharin

in government

the

man

report

Fisting these

cret

Soviet

methods.

Instead,

M.c C ormad

learned about the report

only recently. from con

gressional

probers

who

Way the

to - determine

been suppressed.

The investigators aiso

why the

way the CiA Lets

determine

assassination

pre

report

to

the State Department of

Oswald's trip

•City

to Mexico

gave details.only

of

the defector's visit to the

Russian embassy and not

the

Cuban embassy.

CIA did not report

The

latter

visit

Kennedy's

unti

the

after

in

Dallas.

assassination

Alist

manbel

file

p. 8593

The caller foon the

TEN? CONTI

by

Ferglas

0000243

671F71

3950

HH

53199

DocId: 32344345

Page 2

---

