# docid-32292874

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10210-10150

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-322

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/29/1961

1

LST, ASSOC, WHEREABOUTS, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

- 10/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32292874

Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

/Released under the Toln F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

• FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

SEP 2 Y 1961

TELETYPE

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr--

Mir. Callahan.

Mr. Conrad-

Mr. DeLoadV

Mr. Evans Last

Mr. Malone_

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan-

Mr. Tavel.

Mr. Trotter_

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy-

URGENT

9-29-61

9-04 AM

REW

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-2781/ AND SAC, MIAMI 192-881

FROM SAC, TAMPA 192-1 1 PAGE

CANTO RATICANT, DRO, ARA, ARO DAILY TELETYPE TO SI

NOT TAMPA, BUT WAS OF OPINION HE WILL MEET CASIMIRO HERNANDEZ,

PAST PART OWNER COLUMBIA RESTAURANT, TAMPA, AT AMERICANA

HOTEL, MIAMI BEACH, AS HERNANDEZ LEFT TAMPA SEPTEMBER TWENTYEICHT

•TO BE AT AMERICANA NIGHT OF SEPTEMBER TWENTYEIGHT AND

SEPTEMBER TWENTYNINE AND RETURN TAMPA SATURDAY SEPTEMBER

THIRTY, NEXT. SOURCE OF OPINION CASIMIRO MAY HAVE BEEN CALLED

FOR MEETING OF SOME TYPE AT AMERICANA AS HE IS VERY WEALTHY

AND MAY BE FINANCIAL TYPE CONTACT. MIAMI CHECK AMERICANA

IMMEDIATELY AND ARRANGE POSSIBLE COVERAGE. HERNANDEZ, WHITE,

MALE, THIRTY TO THIRTY-TWO YEARS, SIX FEETTWO, ONE HUNDRED

EIGHT DASH ONE HUNDRED NINETY LBS., BLACK HAIR, BROWN EYES, MODE

OF TRANSPORTATION UNKNOWN.

REC- 95

END

9252732-322

• OCT 8 1966

MM ADVISED

10-06 AM OK FBI WA JA

TU

DISC

OCT

5

1961

DocId: 32292874 Page 2

---

