# docid-32289989

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/18/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10202-10265

HQ

92-3182-706

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, BN

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/28/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/31/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

DocId: 32289989

Page 1

40

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DAVE: cd. 747296,7

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

PLAIN TEXT

FBI

Date:

12-28-62

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

Aution:

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI (92-3182)

(92-5) (P)

LEGAT, Bonn

GUS ALEX, aka

ANTIRACKETEERING

Re Bucables 12/17 and 19/1962.

The BKA (Bundeskriminalamt • West German Federal Criminal Police)

furnished following information on 12-28-62:

Criminal Police in Munich, Germany, have determined that

Mrs. ELROSE FUEGER, mother of DIETGARD FUEGER, moved On 9-1-62 from #12/5

Rosenstrasse, Munich, Germany, to house # in the village of Riederau, near

Landsberg am Lech. (About 30 miles southwest of Munich) She purchased this

house and presently resides there with her daughter INGRIED PRASSE nee FUEGER,

born 813-35, and her daughter's husband, GEORGE PRASSE, born 1926. From

woman was no longer at the Riederau house.

According to information received by the police, GUS ALEX and

DIETGARD FUEGER may have spent the Christmas holidays at the Grand Hotel in,

Kitzbuehel, Austria.

A check of hotels in Munich, Germany, failed to disclose any

reservations in the name of ALEX; and no reservations can be located in ALEX's

name or the name of DIETGARD FUEGER with the Swiss Aidines or Lufthansa Airlines

for flights from Munich, Germany, to Zurich, Switzerland, or vice versa. Also

no orders have been placed by ALEX with the Selbstfahrer Union in Munich

(an association of car rental agencies).

4 • Bureau

(1 - Liaison)

•(1 - Chicago:

92-373)

1 - Bern (sent direct)

RECZ1

92-3182-706

EX-118

6 DEG 3I 1962

1 • Bonn

GAV: kmm

(6)

F43

Approved:

• на гутбі

Sent

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32289989 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATEd Liter. 44-12877

0...

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

----

Bonn 92-5

The U. S. Army Operations and Research Detachment was asked to

institute confidential communications (both telephone and mail) coverage on

the FUEGER address in Munich.

That agency had advised that it independently

determined that FUEGER had moved to Riederau as reported by the BKA, and that

no telephone service was yet in effect at the house in Riederau... Efforts are

being made, however, to cover mail and telegraph communications to this address.

The agency, stated, however, that because Riederau is a small village, it may

be difficult to provide full coverage.

The above information regarding: subject's reported presence in

Kitzbuehel was furnished to Legat in Bern by telephone on 12-28-62.

002..

Approved:

Sent

_M Per.

Special Agent in Charge

92-3182-706

DocId: 32289989 Page 3

---

