# docid-32321760

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10377-10418

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-3637

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: LA

TITLE :

DATE:

02/17/1998

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/06/1999

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32321760

302

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

n.p..

(12/31/1995)

316

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence: DEADLINE

To: Los Angeles

03/03/1998

Date: 02/17/1998

Attn: Claudette Choquette

From:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

JFK Task Force, Rm. 11144

Contact: Pauline E. Battle, Ext. 0664

Approved Bys Keeley Carol Elm

Drafted By: Battle Pauline E

Case ID #: 62-HQ-1029205 (Pending)

Title: John F. Kennedy Records Collection Act

of 1992 (the

Act)

Synopsis: The Act established the Assassination Records Review

Board (ARRB)

to oversee the government's production and

compliance with the Act.

The ARRB reviews the proposed

postponements in documents sent by each agency to the National

Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and decides what

postponements the Act will allow or opens the document in full.

The ARRB's responsibilities include having agencies search other

subjects and areas to find additional material not already

identified as assassination records.

The establishment of the

ARRB by the Act also limited the time for their duties to be

accomplished.

The ARRB must complete their tasks by September

With this deadline in mind, the ARRB

sent a letter

requesting additional information GAF-#-1029205-3637

Enclosures: ARRB letter requesting material:

Details: On February 9, 1998, the ARRB sent a letter to the FBI

setting forth a formal request to receive and review additional

records. The ARRB's goal is to research every possible subject

that may have a bearing on assassination theories and to assure

Congress and the American public that all was done to accomplish

the intentions of the Act.

Los Angeles should conduct a search for the listed

items. If Los Angeles is aware of any administrative records they

may have maintained outside the normal index system, they should

include those areas in the search.

If any documents related to

the matters are found, please forward the documents to the JFK

Task Force.

Pursuant to the Act, any material categorized

as an

assassination record must be sent to the NARA in its original

form.

The Act established the process of handling the documents

and the FBI must follow the Act. If Los Angeles believes there

Warking

DocId: 32321760

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

To: Los Angeles

From: Office of Public and Congressional

Affairs

Re:

62-HQ-1029205, 02/17/1998

office needs a copy, they should copy the documents or material

before sending to the JFK Task Force.

Please conduct a search for any files and references

for Harry Dean and please forward all material to the JFK Task

Force, Attention: Pauline E. Battle, Room 11144.

If you have any questions, please call Pauline Battle

at (202)324-0664.

DocId: 32321760

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

To: Los Angeles

From: Office of Public and Congressional

Affairs

Re:

62-HQ-1029205, 02/17/1998

LEAD (s):

Set Lead 1:

TO LOS ANGELES

AT LOS ANGELES

Conduct a search of your office for any files and

references for Harry Dean. Forward any material related to this

request to FBIHQ, JFK Task Force, Attention: Pauline E. Battle,

room 11144. The results should be received

at FBIHQ no later than

c.0.B. 03/03/98.

*ACC: 1 - Carol L. Keeley, Room 11144

1

- LuAnn

Wilkins,

Room 11144

1 - Pauline E. Battle,

Room 11144

DocId: 32321760

Page 4

---

