# docid-32570535

## Page 1

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-11-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SEE. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUL 2 9 1963

TELETYPE

Mr. Toison

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr.

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Coured

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evang

Mr. Galc...

Mr. Reson.

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

T'avel

Mr.

rizobber

Tole. Room

Miss Holmies

Miso. Grady

URGENT

7-29-63

9-57 PM

EST

RGT

DIRECTOR AND SAC, NEW ORLEANS

D. E MoTIe

FROM

SAC, MIAMI

2. P

BR

wareal

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL / DRE/A/REVOLUTIONARY

STUDENT DIRECTORATE/, IS DASH CUBA, RA DASH CUBA, NM.

!

RE BUREAU TELEPHONE CALL TO MM AND MM TELCALL TO NEW

ORLEANS JULY TWENTYNINE INSTANT. A CeLO PedROSO ARTORES

PEDROSO DEPARTING MIAMI WITH BUAGENT VIA NATIONAL AIRLINES

FLIGHT THIRTY FIVE AT SEVEN FORTYFIVE AM, EST, JULY THIRTY,

ARRIVING AT EIGHT TWENTY AM, NEW ORLEANS TIME.

FOR INFO BUREAU PEDROSO, WHEN CONTACTED TODAY STATED HE DID

NOT WISH TO GO TO NEW ORLEANS TO IDENTIFY HOUSE, WOULD GO ONLY IF

ACCOMPANIED BY MIAMI AGENT, WOULD NOT IDENTIFY ANY PERSON INVOLVED

IN PLOT, BUT STATED WILLINGNESS TO IDENTIFY HOUSE, PEDROSO OBVIOUSLY

FEELS HE IS PUTTING HIMSELE IN POSITIODEC

BETRAYING ANTI-CASTRO

MOVEMENT IF HE IDENTITYS THOSE INVOLVED SIM 2 - 182/-22

NEW ORLEANS HAS ADVISED, HOUSE MENTIONED EVEL, BRUANS TEL SEVEN

TWENTYSIX LAST BELIEVED LEASED OR SANGIONE SAT LIE JORMERLYEA

CONNECTED -WITH CUBAN GAMBLING ACTIVITIES.

PROPERTY OF BYRÓN PORESZIENIVERTON

AND THAT WHY CONTANEY AND

CHIVERTON ARE SISTERS.

MINO REFERENCE MIAMI INDICES TO.J.

MC. LANEY

END PAGE ONE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINER A

AUG 7 1963 W

CO: Warmall

DARE A/S 4 S5%4

DATE 'A

EAT

TI SHO

(JFK

NW 54464 DooId: 32570535

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PAGE TWO

CHIVERTON. J. MC LANEY POSSIBLY IDENTICAL MICHAEL JO MC LANEY,

MIAMI PCI, WHO WAS BORN IN NEW ORLEANS TWO ONE FIFTEEN AND LIVED

MOST OF HIS LIFE THERE, COMING TO MIAMI BEACH IN NINETEEN

FIFTYSEVEN. HE FORMERLY OPERATED THE INTERNATIONAL CASINO AT THE

NACIONAL HOTEL IN HAVANA. HE MARRIED CAROLYN MUNIC AT NEW ORLEANS

BUT HAS BEEN MARRIED TWICE SINCE. MC LANEY WAS MENTIONED AS SOURCE

OF MONEY BEHIND PLAN TO BOMB SHELL OIL REFINERY, HAVANA, SIX FIFTEEN

SIXTYTHREE, WHICH PLOT WAS MENTIONED IN PREVIOUS MM TELS: MC LANEY

WILL BE INTERVIEWED RE THIS MATTER.

NO FACTS OR IDENTITY OF SUBJECTS IN ADDITION TO DATA SET OUT

IN PREVIOUS COMMUNICATIONS ARE AS YET AVAILABLE AS MIAMI HAS NOT

INTERVIEWED SUSPECTS PENDING RECEIPT OF AUTHORITY FOR NEUTRALITY

INVESTIGATION. MIAMI IN PROCESS OF EXPEDITOUSLY

LOCATING AND

INTERVIEWING ÄLL PERSONS BELIEVED IMPLICATED IN PLOT.

END AND ACK PLS

WA 11-05 PM OK FBI WA HFL

TU DSC

CUBA

mor sa 11oebl.03

EDI

• NH 54464 DooId:32570535 Page 2

---

