# docid-32175097

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD. NUMBER: 124-10181-10193

RECORD_SERIES: HQ JUNE MAIL FOLDER

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-117290-456X5

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

ADIC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/28/1977

PAGES: 9

SUBJECT:

HSCA, REQ, ACCESS TO ELSUR MATERIAL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

03/26/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

INC LOG, ENV

DocId: 32175097

Page 1

---

## Page 2

^ Released

under, the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC, 2103. Hote).

DATE:

11-74-2017

Mey. 7527-76)

NSMIT VIA:

Teletype:

Facsimile

{ Airtel

' FBI'

PRECEDENCE:

CLASSIFICATION CONDENTIAL

Imme

/ Prionity

ECRE

-TOP. SECRET

SECRET

Routine

CONFIDENTIAL

CLEAR

Date

11/28/77

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM :

ADIC, NEW YORK (190-1)

ALT, INTO MAPTO CONTAINED

HERED: Z0 GNOSASSIFIED

EXCEPE WHERE SHOWN

OTHETICE-

SUBJECT:

UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,

HOUSE SELECT. COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

(HSCA).

"WELSUR

-BUDED 12/1/77

Re Bureau teletype, 11/22/77.

Enclosed are two

NY 2638-S*

(sated 12/2/63.82) copies of Elsur LOgs frOm

These

logs are classified

itidd 7290-456X5

co protect an extremel

sensitive and active source providin

information in Foreign

Counterintelligence

investigations (k)g(u)

(55K) 10/29196

RECAG

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 SuO/CL

ST 114

62=318

14/5-46

ASASON: 1.5

(c,d),

1-3-78

DECLASSIFY ON: X_ (6)

NOV 30 1977

5668 510/GCL - 275/97 -FK)

SCORDED COPY FILED 11

Bureau (Encls. 2) (RM)

New York

JOC: mej

(4)

Declass

Secret Material Enclared

Approved:

6. GAN 1 2 1978

DocId: 32175097 Page 2

ASPROPRIATE AGENCIE

AND

MATE PICTS

ADVT""

STING

SHIP (5)00

class

21.2-23.8

CONE XENNAI

Per

GPO: 1977'0 - 225-539

---

## Page 3

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act oF 1992 744 U56

DATE: 11-14-2017

7 Hote).

SECRET

CONDENTIAL

SLOSE

1/28/77

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

ADIC, NEW YORK (190-1)

PUTH CONTAINED

CUASGIFIED

EXCEPC FIERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE:

SUBJECT:

UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

(HSCA)

ELSUR

BUDED 12/1/77

(5FK) 40/29/96

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 SL0/GCL

REASON: 1.5 (c,d)

DECLASSIFY ON: X 0)(6)

Re Bureau teletype, 11/22/77.

(5668 S10 G02-2/5/97-JFK)

NY 2638-9*

enclosed are two (2) copies of Elsur Logs from

(slated 12/2/63.(8)

These

logs are classified to protect an extremely

sensitive

and

active

source providing information in Foreign

Counter intelligence investigations. ($G)

Bureau (Encls. 2) (RM)

1- New York

JOC:mej

(4)

3/25/86

Classined by SPSRTGIPMC

unclassity on: duck

517-83

1A1/3017/02

CONTENTAL

SECRETI

DocId: 32175097 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under Tig

DATE:

11-14-2017

Assassinal

x 991.

ABROVELY

1304086

ENCLOSURES TO BUREAU

(2) :

UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,

SELECT

COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

(HSCA)

ELSUR

BUDED 12/1/77

YENCLOSED

ARE TNO

(2)

2638-9*

COPIES

OF

ELSUR

LOGS FROM

DATED 12/2/63

(+8-48756-7051015 8995)

pia;

799/0758995111cls

96/52/0112111)

Whoas what artis

LIN MARION NODE RICONE PE

DocId: 32175097 - Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

i rs

NY 43 (REV. 9/22/59)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

EXCEET WHORE SHOWN

OTHERWISE&

SUBJECT:

DATE:

AGENTS ON DUTY:

PHYSICAL SURVRLLLANCE LOG

Lily 2438-S*](s)

CODE 7:

12/2/1.3

SHIFT:

1Ú, C. Raleits

TEAM:

SYNOPSIS

OBSERVED:

NOT OBSERVED:

CONTACT MADE: -

MEMO PREPARED:

UNUSUAI ACTIVITY:

INDEXING NEEDED

CASE AGENT:

3|as

Classified

SO5RJGIPMC

Declassity on: DA

2-17-83

NO

FILE

UNUSUAL OR SIGNIFICANT

CONTACIS AND LOCATIONS

NAME

ADDRESS

Hendrix

125-7411 sus

(FOR CASE AGENT ONLY)

CHANNELIZATION

MEMO PREPARED:

(INITIALS)

TIME

NO CHANNELIZATION

NECESSARY

AKH

-TINIALS) -

(TH) 19/29196

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668510/GCL

REASON: 1.5 (c.d)

DECLASSIFY ON: X 0(6)

(5668 510(GCL -2/5/91-26K)

SECRET

- A-

DocId: 32175097

Page 5

---

## Page 6

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 SiD

REASON:

1.5

(c,d.)

DECLASSIFY ON:XC

25668 SID/GUL -Z.

MY 2638-S*7(5)

Monday, Dacember 2, 1963*

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE.

SA W G Roberts

10:45am (1l4)

W5534-1 Eng-Some Russ.

KARATSUBA and DIAZ, visited by FEINSTEIN (voice). DIAZ entere

KARATSUBA's offico, greets him and asks about a bottle.

KARATSUBA

replies, how about Old Grand Dad. DIAZ trinks that will be a good

Indy then read newspapers and comment on their findines.

states that one of his newspapors carried an art co

in which world champion rife shot way quoted an saving that one

n live reconas.

they got the right rifle, then relates that the NY Tima has an

article stating that OSW. IDS nother was shom a picture of RUBY

saven toan hours before (WALD was killed. KARAISUBA

Mates that

the important thing to him is hoir OSWAiD could be such a good shot

aftor being out of the Marina for three or four years and sponding

tro and a half years in the Soviet Union

where they would not let

him hate a gun.

S°atea

the important thing is not whether he is

Marxist or what erer but that he did so wol

in fivo socondo and

anly ordered the gun in August, KARATSUNA

Los the FBI saw

OSWALD carry the gun in a packago, DIAZ

it was neighbors who saw the package.:

WALKIR was during this tine.

DIAZ

thinka

with the Dallas State Polico,

laugus

10.

states thinks the Govenor

has a finger incthe pig.

SEARA TSUBAI

not think the FBI was

involved. DIAZ

*1 18XKARATSUBA

_should read about MALCOLM X

speech made at Manhattan Center, KARAISUBA

that there were file showing two men in the windor.

enters.

hide the bottle."

KARAISUSA tella FEINSTSIN that he tallod wit

TOMACHINSKI who Wants to soo hin on business,

FEINSTEN exits

u)

They return to the discussion of the two men in the window KAreNuI

the other one FBI, states those 1-king FBI Agents are local boys

and thay are all poisoned and emotional about this shit. DIAZ

Wonder

KARAT

theres

is

BOBBY, he allways had a big mouth, whore

SOBBY

-Khows

everybody had sonathing to say but BOnY, faceda

now,

Inka

SIAZ

a littlo bit more than anyone who just ora

his

tos hagnit

KDIAZI

à ta tes

ErcAR. Enlat

Rea too much from HoovEr.

, he 13 in poor health you know,

They

discuss the telegran Madan

Nhu sent and the situation in Viet.

ổ hy

125-

HERBERT?

-1-

SECRET .

203

Classified bi

PSRIGIPMC

Deetassify on: OADR

2-17-83

DocId: 32175097

Page 6

NOV 28 1977

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 2638-5# (5)

Monday, Deceines 2, 196315

lates ho could write a play about all this, but if he did it

vould catch him in New Jersoy with i camera or somathing. KARAT*S

states that was his biggest fear in Chicago, that his

be returnod with a camera and he could not

rove it was

not his,

states ho was really afarid of this. SulAz

Mas that in the ties

cass the typewriter was manufactured to order by the FBI.

ISA W G Roberts

3:14pm (14) W5634-30

KARATSUBA and DIAZ. K apparently showd a newspaper ad to D and asks

him what it is.

D explains what burlesque is, and that it is no

longer in New York, maybe they have it in Jersey, will find out.

Katates no there is none in Jersey, he already found out.

K stätes

they have in dan 28 and in latinor ha was told. Dis mating

fOr NIKI FOROV,

SECRET

-2%

DooId:32175097

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

NY 43 (REV. 9/22/59)

SUBJECT:

DATE:

AGENTS ON DUTY:

Lily 2638-5*

PHYSICAL JURVETLLANCE LOGERLIN IS UNCRASSIFIED

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

CODE #:

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE.

1221.3

SHIFT:

WU, G. Roleets

TEAM:

SYNOPSIS

OBSERVED:

NOT OBSERVED:

CONTACT MADE:

MEMO PREPARED:

UNUSUAL AOTIVITY:

INDEXING NEEDED

CASE AGENT:

(55K1 10/24/96

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668510/GCL

REASON: 1.5 (c,d)

DECLASSIFY ON: X. (I)(6)

5668 SID/GCL -4/5/97-55K)

(u)

YES

FILE

165-7411 14l9

Es

UNUSUAL OR SIGNIFICANT

CONTACTS AND LOCATIONS

NAME

ADDRESS

(FOR CASE AGENT ONLY)

CHANNELIZATTON

MEMO PREPARED:

(INITIALS)

TIME

NO CHANNELIZATION

NECESSARY

AKH

Classined my SPS RaL PMC

Declassity on

ADR

2-1M-83

3/05/8u Spinacm

deitie.

SECRET

A -

DocId: 32175097

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: _11-14-2017

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

SECRET

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

JFKS 10/29196

NY 2638-S* (S)

2630-54 65 0 2, 2963 )

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 SID/GCL

REASON: 1.5

ic.d

DECLASSIFY ON: X (/6

ISA

W G Roberts

(5668510/GCL-2/5/97-JFK)

10:45am (24)

W553L-1 Eng-Sone Russ.

KARATSUBA and DIAZ, vigited by FEINSTEI: (voice).

DIAZ entors

KARATSUBA's offico, greets him and asky about a bottle.

KARATSUBA

replies, how about Old Grand Dad.. DIAZ trinks that will be a good

start.

then read newspapers and comment on their findings.

KARA TSUBA>

cates that one of his newspapora carried an article

in which a world champion rife shot was quoted as saying that one

they got the right rifle,

then relates that the NY Tiras hag an

article stating that OSW.LDS mother was show a picture

01. RUBY

soventeen hours before WALD was killed. KARATSUB

tes that

the important thing to him is how OSWALD

could be

such

. 2

good shot

after being out of the Marined for three

or four years and spanding

to and a half years in the Soviat Union where they would not let

him have a gun.

sates

the important thing is not wethor he is

Marxiat or what ever but that he did so well

tiva

seconds

and

only ordered the gun in August. &KARATSUB

as the FBT saw

OSHALD carry the gun in a package » DIA

him cha states

it was neighbors who saw the

Wonders where Can,

WALKR was during this timo.

the FBI isinvolved

with the Dallas State Poliço,

laugh

nd

states

thinks the Govenor

has

a finger

• in

the pie. KARAIS

UBAY

not think the FBI Wag

involved. DIAZ eLI& KARATSUBA

spooch made at fahlat tan Center

should road

KARA TSUBA

eat over the radio

that there were lilma showing

tHo

mon in

the

window.

*FEINSTEIN

entera. DIAZ, tela KARATSUBA quickly and softly,

"hi de

the bottle,

hide the boutle." (KARATSUBA tells FEINSTEIN that he talked with

TOMACHINSTI Who Wanto to soo him on business, FEINSTE N exits

They return to the discussion of the two men in the window, KARATSu)

states he wours hot be suprided il the othor men was a policeman,

laughs. DIAZ auggest that mayoo one was a fo king policonan and

the other one FBI, states those f-king IBI Agents are local boi

(u)

and they are all poisoned and amotional about this ahit. *DIAD

now.

Knows

MOUt

stras hasn't

a little bit more than anyone who just

open his

card too much from HOOVER.

HERBERT?

DIAZiSta toa

EDCAR. EK*S

"tes, he is in poor health you know.

They discuss the

tolegranadan Nu wont and the situation in Viet Ye)u)

-1-

d by

Classified

Betiassity on: DAC

217-83

DocId: 32175097

Page 9

SECRET.

Coterory 343

NOV. 28

1977

---

## Page 10

Released' under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 263854(5)

Monday, December 2, 19034

inter he could write a play about all this, but if he did it

catch him in New Jersey wich a camera or sonothing. XARATIERU

that was his biggost foar in Chicago, that his jacket would

be returned with a camera and he could not

statea he rag really alarid i this cat was not laa

that in tho Higs

case the typewriter was manufactured to order by the FBI.

KSA N G Roberts

3:14 pm (14)

W5634-30

KARATSUBA and DIAZ.

K apparently shows a newspiper ad to D and asks

hira what it is.

D explains what burlesque is, and that it is no

longer in New York, maybe they have it in Jersey, will find out.

Katates no there is none in Jersey, he already found out.

K states

•they have in in Izlinois and in Baltimore he was told. D is waiting

for NI KIPOROV

SECRET

DocId: 32175097

Page 10

---

