# docid-32341020

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10221-10413

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

97-4474-4TH NR 394X

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/19/1968

'PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, OBA, PODER CUBANO, BOMBING, SHIPS, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54027

8

DooId: 32341020

Page

1

---

## Page 2

FBI

Date:

6/19/68

Transmit:.. following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

EL

Via

(Priority)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED'

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATF 10/4/85

<

RY SAX 85A

50080

20M:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

SAC, MIAMI (105-1742) (P)

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

IS - CUBA

plansiesis 105-1768805546!

97-4474 (AIRP)

Re Miami airtel to the Bureau, 6712/68? CenJ

Bureau will note Miami airtel, 6/13/68, entitled

the faction of HECTOR CORNILLOT is inactive and the PODER

CUSANO faction of ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, head of MIRR, is

resuming activity under the name of PODER CUBANo.

It is noted BOSCH has claimed responsibility for

the bombing of a British ship off Key West, Florida, and

a capanese ship in Tampa, Florida, during the past month.

Miami has intensified investigation on BOSCH

and his group.

Activists in his group have been recently

relocated, addresses verified and spot check surveillances

conducted.

During the week of 6/3/68, there were two Japanese

vessels in Miami.

The Miami office

alerted local police

and Federal agencies and maintained spot check surveillances

of these

MM 635-S advised he has

¿ been unable to make

contact, with

BOSCH but plans to see him on 6/21/68.

F3/- Bureau

Miami

RJD: j hk

(4)

(RM)

itit

-

NOT RECORDED JUN 21 19E2

202 JUN 25 1968

57 JUN

Approved:

* 1968

Sent

- M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

HH 54027 DocId:32341020 Page 2

ORIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 3

dist 105-1742

Informant advised that OSCAR ANGULO, reporter

{ox Miami Radio Station WIII, (under development as a PSI)

is in irequent contact with BOSCH and apparently has

knowledge of BOSCH's plans..

MM 635-S said that FELIPE RIVERO DIAZ and his

CNX organization in Miami

is completely inactive but that

RIVERO has

great personal. hatred for BOSCH and possibly

would do anything to cause BOSCH difficulty.

OSCAR ANGULO on 6/17/68, was interviewed by the

Miami Office and was completely cooperative.

He said he

is is

contact with BOSCH, who continues in his plans to bomb

ships trading with Cuba.

BOSCH said his men had planned

so bomb another Japanese ship in Miami but spotted police

security measures and called off this attempt.

On 6/19/68, ANGULO reported BOSCH claimed he has

a man in Nassau, Bahamas, checking charter flights from

Nassau. to Havana.

These flights are used by UN personnel

for travel to Havana,

and ANGULO believes BOSCH is

considering the possibility of bombing one of these

flighis.

Bosch claims he has a Cuban national in Mexico working with

a Mexican airline company and available to put a bomb

on a Mexican airliner when BOSCH so orders

It is hoped ANGULO will be in a position to furnish

further information concerning the time and place of future

targets selected by BOSCH.

The Miami Office plans to maintain close contact.

with ANGULO and is considering interview of RIVERO,

soliciting his cooperation concering BOSCH.

The Miami Office is following this matter closely

and will keep the Bureau advised:

-2 -

MH 54027

DocId: 32341020

Page 3

---

