# docid-32334131

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/2/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90110-10124

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 144-242-8X6

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# : NIT

54027 Date:

08-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/02/1961

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

PAN AMERICAN FOUNDATION LIMITED

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LHM

v9.1

HW 54027 DocId:32334131 Page 1

26

---

## Page 2

UNKNOWN SUBJECTS;

PAN

AMERICAN FOUNDATION, LIMITED

On August 17, 1961,

a source of the Pittsburgh Office who

has operated

a bookie joint in New Kensington, Pa., for

many years, advised that John Cirigliano, aka

shriggs, hac

been delivering the Pan-American Medical

Sweepstakes

tickets

books for approximately two weeks.

He said Shriggs was an

employee of Gabriel Mannarino and

his only function is to

deliver lottery tickets to various numbers outlets in parts

of Westmoreland, Armstrong

and Allegheny Counties, Pa.

On August 21, 1961,

Walter Sheridan, Special Consultant

to the Attorney General of the United States, requested a

full investigation of the Pan-American Foundation, Limitea.

On August 25, 1961, Department of Justice Attorney Kenny

furnished Special

tickets, based on the

running of the Dixie Handicap horse race at Pimlico, Md., on

November 23, 1961.

The book contained tickets numbered

216677 through 216688.

Attorney Kenny indicated he received

the tickets from a source.

On

August 25, 1961, the same source of the Pittsburgh Office

advised that

on the preceding day, Shriggs stated that the

sweepstakes tickets

were selling very badly and that he was

not trying too hard to push them.

Source said Shriggs normally

delivered new lottery tickets, including the weekly Arrow

Treasury and Empire Treasury tickets, on Thursdays and

picked up receipts on Mondays and Tuesdays.

He said that

during the Thursday deliveries, Shriggs would furnish

new books of sweepstakes tickets on request of any

operator of a numbers joint:

On September 7, 1961, the same source of the Pittsburgh:

Office advised that sales of the sweepstakes tickets

were very poor and that in the five or six weeks he

had been selling them, he had sold only seven books of

tickets. He said Shriggs

told him that source and one

other numbers operator in New Kensington were the only

two in that town

who were selling the tickets.

-2-

HIH

54027 DocId: 32334131 Page 2

---

