# docid-32331464

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2TUT Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90097-10086

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 166-637-104

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/04/1964

CHARLES TOURINE

JOSEPH FRANCIS NESLINE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

Redact

07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

TT

v9.1

DocId: 32331464

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

048

FEDERAL BUREAU 0F INVESTICATICN

U. S. DEPARTMONI OF JUSTIGE

COMMUNICATIONS

NOV 41964

TELETYPE

FBI WASH DC*

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont-

Mr. Mohr

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Evans.

Mr. Gale.

Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy

FBI MIAMI

537 PM. EST, URGENT 11/4/64 JSR

TO DIRECTOR, AND WFO (166- 637) AND

(166-93)

FROM MIAMI (92-187)

JOSEPH FRANCIS, NESLINE: ITAR DASH GAMBLENG. 00:BA

RE WO TEL, TO BUREAU NOV: TWO LAST. AND MIAMI TEL TO BUREAU NOV.

THREE LAST.

BAHAMAS: POLICE FORCE RECORDS CHECKED INSTANT REFLECT THAT A DAN

PRICE, AMERICANS NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED, IS PRESENTLY EMPLOYED AT THE

MONTE CARLOS CASINO, LUGAYAN BEACH HOTEL, FREEPORT. GBI. THIS INDIVIDUAL

MAY BE IDEÑTICAL TO DANNY PRICE MENTIONED IN REFERENCED WO TEL.

SM NINE SIX EIGHT DASH PE ADVISED INSTANT THAT EUGENE CORSE CONTAC

CHARLES TOURINE AFTER HE WAS SERVED WITH A SUBPOENA BY THE USM AND THAT

TOURINE IMMEDIATELY LEFT FOR HIDING IN NEW YORK SO AS TO AVOID A SUBPOENA

END.

• RPP

FBI!

WASH

DC*

• TWO COPIES WFO

ERE ETH

+ 8/66-63-7-B606

• NOV 5 1964

310

6 NOV 1 2 1964

DocId: 32331464 Page 2

---

