# docid-32307970

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10293-10328

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2094

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

YOST, NEWTON E.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 09/04/1967

'PAGES:

20

SUBJECTS :

LCN, LICATA, NICOLO, LA, UNDERBOSS, MEMBERS, ASSOC,

SECURITY, SIMPONIS, NICK GUST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32307970 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released Herrthe ghn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL

BUREAU OF INVI

STIGATION

REFORTING OFFICE

LOS ANGELES

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICEOF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

DATE

9/4/67

REPORT MADE BY

NEWTON E. YOST

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/1/66 - 8/31/67

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

REFERENCES:

Report of SA NEWTON E. YOST dated 6/3/66 at

Los Angeles.

Bureau airtel to New York dated 8/11/67.

=P .

TYPED BY

cas

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU

Two (2) copies of a Letterhead Memorandun setting

forth characterization of informants.

TO NEW YORK

Two (2) Copies of a letterhead memorandum setting

forth characterization of informants.

CONVIC

AUTO

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

None

SAVINGS

ACQUIT.

RECOVERIES

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN: '

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR EYES LINO

FENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

_YES XINO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

3

Bureau (92-6054) (Ena3s> Z) (RM)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-6054-2094 REC 2Z

1X 106

2

San Diego

- Los Angeles (92-1112)

0: SEP. 8

1867

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

1997

DocId: 32307970 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 191 USC 2107 Mote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-1112

ADMINISTRATIVE

On 8/4/67, LA 4448-C-TE advised that with the

death of Los Angeles ICN "Boss" FRANK DESIMONE on that date,

that

"Under-Boss" NICK LICATA would be in charge of the Los

Angeles ICN "Brugad".

Informant stated that LICATA will

remain in charge until a new

"Boss" is selected.

is selected to be the new "Boss

Informant-stated that, almost Invarible, a "Capo"

While this is not always

true, it is, generally, the practice. Informant stated that

"Under-Boss" is seldom selected to replace a "Boss"

Informant stated that this is true because a "Capo" is more

powerful than the "Under-Boss"

, "Capo" is at the operational

level of the organization and the

"members" are assigned

directly to him.

An "Under-Boss" has no "members" assigned

directly to him.

This 1s one of the reasons why informant does not,

presently, feel that

"Under-Boss" NICK LICATA will be selected

as the new

"Boss"

In addition, informant noted the resentment

of various ICN "members" towards LICATA because of his lack of

positive and productive leadership.

Informant stated that he was certain that LICATA

would attempt to line up support in a bid to

name him (LICATA

as "Boss"

Another candidate would be

"Capo" JOSEPH DIPPOLITO.

Informant noted that it was yet too early to know what direction

the various bids for power within the los Angeles "Brugad"

would take.

Informant stated. on 8/4/67 that a new "Bôss" would

be selected by a vote of each ICN ilmember" of the "Brugad"

Informant noted, however, that this was far from being as

democratic as it sounded.

Generally, he noted, the ranking

and more powerful

"members" of the

"Brugad"

agree among

themselves who will be

"Boss"

The "Capos", in turn,

contact their

"Members" for their approval.

"Members"

generally vote as a block for the man their "Capo" is backing.

Informant noted, at this point, that the key man

In the selection of the new "Boss" would, in informant's

opinion, be JOHN

Informant stated that ROSELLI,

undoubtedly, would be contacted and consulted relative to his

views and his choice as

"Boss", Informant felt that the opinion

of ROSELLI would be persuasive on the Los Angeles "members"

-8 -

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32307970 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 1005)

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-1112

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed and "T" symbols were utilized in only

those instances where the identities of the sources must

be concealed.

Extensive Information reltaing to LCN members

and their activities in the Los Angeles area as well

as

information relating to ICN members and their activities

in other parts of the country has been received from

LA 4448-C-TE ana SD 1064-C-TE.

For their additional

protection, several symbol numbers have been assigned to

those sources.

LA T-I Is LA 4448-C-TE who is a "member" of

the Los Angeles ICN "Family"

LA-I-2 is SD 1064-C-TE who is a "member" of

the Los Angeles ICN "Family"

LA T-3 1s LA 4412-C-TE who is not a "member"

of the Ios Angeles ICN

"Family" but who has an

extremely close identity with various of

its "members"

JA T-4 is LA 4448-C-TE who is a "member'" of

the Los Angeles ICN "Family".

LA T-5 1s SD 1064-C-TE who is a "member" of

the Los Angeles ICN.

"Family"

LA T-6 is LA 4448-C-TE who is a "member" of

the Los Angeles ICN "Family".

LA: T-7 is SD 1064-C-TE who is a "member" of

the Los Angeles ICN

"Family"

LA T-8 IS JOSEPH VALACHI who has been Identified

as an LCN

"nember" in New York City.

LA I-9 1S SF 2689-C-TE who is a

"member" of

the San Francisco ICN "Family"

C

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32307970 Page 4

---

