# docid-32330531

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90090-10194

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 174-6515-10

• Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO : HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

07/08/1977

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

ROLANDO MASFERRER

ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32330531

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONPIDENTHL

& UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

memorandum

7/8/77

SAC, MIAMI (174-926)

SUBJECT:

ther

XXX

UNSUB; BOMBING OF CAR AT

6775 S.W. 27th STREET,

ON 5-18-94

MIAMI,

FLORIDA,

10/31/75,

ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS (DECEASED) - VICTIM

EID

(00: MIAMI)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (174-6515)

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

aule to mm; wam: tac;

TATE AGENCIES

NG

O7F

APPROPT

AND FTE

ADVISED

SLIP(S

DATEA

Enclosed for the Bureau are one copy each of FD-302s

regarding interviews of ANDRES PASEIRO, Mrs. LUCILA MASFERREF

and JOSE ELIAS THUMAS and copy of Mrs.

MASFERRER's letter

dated 4/22/77.

ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS, former editor of "Libertad"

newspaper, Miami, Florida, was killed on 10/31/75, when a bomb

exploded in his car at Miami, Florida.

MASFERRER was known as "El Tigre" (The Tiger) when

he was a Senator in Cuba.

Men who worked for him in Cuba

were his personal bodyguards and made up a small army which

MASFERRER utilized for his own personal protection and for

his political advancement.

These men were known as "Masferrer's

Tigers" and were feared by the Cuban population as they were

responsible for many killings.

In March, 1976, MANUEL DE ARMAS, a Cuban exile who

was then living in

Miami, Florida, and was utilized as an

informant by the FBI, defected to

Cuba. While in Cuba, DE ARMAS

made numerous releases to the press at the request of the

Cuban Government. Much of the information furnished by

DE ARMAS was false. In one of the interviews which was

televised in Havana, DE ARMAS stated that the explosives used

to kill MASFERRER were furnished to him by SA ROBERT MILLS of

DE ARMAd Sed that he in turn gave the

explosives to members of the anti-Castro organization Abdala.

DE ARMAS alleged that members of Abdalub lied MASFERRER using

the explosives furnished by SA MILLS.

60527

- Bureau (Enc. 4) (RM)

REG- 84

774-6515-10

- Miami

28

JUL X3 1977

JSD/jky

(3)

ASS.

718181

• EXT

582843 emu Beins

REAS

- I!

II, 1-2.4.2

DATE

VIEW

718197

VG3

1977 Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly Ön the Payroll Savings Plan

OPTIO

(PEN 776)

• FORM NO. 10

• GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

5010-112

DocId: 32330531

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released wder the John F.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act o1 1992 (11 USC 2107 Tote).

MM 174-926

On 1/24/77, MM 3945-C advised that ANDRES PASEIRO,

brother-in-law of MASFERRER, wanted to bring criminal charges

against SA MILLS based on DE ARMAS' statements. *(U)

ROLANDO MASEFERED? JOSE ELIAS THUMAS and LUCILA MONTERO MASFERRER,

were interviewed regarding the

allegation against sa vilis in late January and early February,

1977.

It is noted that DE ARMAS returned to the United

States in September, 1976, and was interviewed by Special

Agents of the Utica, New York Resident Agency and the CIA.

In the interview DE ARMAS denied any direct knowledge of

MASFERRER's murder, and admitted fabricating this story about

SA MILLS having furnished him with explosives.

It is noted

that DE ARMAS alleged that SA MILLS furnished C-4 for the

MASFERRER killing, when in fact dynamite was used.

DE ARMAS,

who appears to be a pathological liar, also told Homicide

detectives of the Dade County Public Safety Department in Miami®

that the information he furnished about SA MILLS is false. #(U)

Because of MASFERRER's involvement with the violent

element in the Miami area and the possibility that his friends

and followers may have believed DE ARMAS' story and could

retaliate in some violent way against SA MILLS or his family,

it was decided by the Miami Office that an interview of Mrs.

MASFERRER and her brother-in-law was proper to evaluate the

possibility of a threat to SA MILLS or his family.

FREDERICO VILLALOBOS and ROY L. MOBLEY, JR. were instructed

to interview Mrs. MASFERRER, ANDRES PASEIRO and JOSE ELIAS

aka Jose Elias Nacin.

these interviewe are ence seal.

(Copy of FD-302s regarding

It is noted that NACIN is a member of a violent

terrorist organization named "Pragmatistas" and was recently

convicted in Miami of conspiracy to commit murder.

This

involved the shooting death of LUCIANO NIEVES, a well-known

Cuban exile in Miami.

-2 -

DocId:32330531 Page 3

---

