# docid-32293724

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote]:

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10212-10000

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-12-429

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/10/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING, INTV, BAWCUM, RILEY B.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32293724

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

"DI 94-265

BAWCUM's assocIate MELVIN RALPIL, MARSHALL, waS

interviewed at City Jail, 5/17/63, following arrest by the.

Dallas P

D.

He was questioned concerning the

numérous telephone

calls made to and from phones at his place of residence, to Chicago

Hot Springs, Ark., and Wilmington, Del.

He admitted making and

receiving numerous calls from Chicago and adnitted he had received

some tips on horse races through these calls.

He denied he

was making the calls to obtain race results

or wagering information

and denied any bookmaking activities.

• He admitted making telephone

calls to Hot Springs, Ark. to a "friend" and discussing possible

tips on races at Hot Springs. He again denied ever using this.

information for any bookmaking activities. He admitted making

bets on baseball games in the Dallas area

• but refused to identify

persons with whom he had placed these bets.

When shown the above

described pad, he admitted this was his pad and his handwriting,

and claimed the names on the

pad were those of "meat customers"

of his for whom he had placed

bets as a favor.

He refused to

identify any of the names

and further refused to discuss the

calls to Wilmington, Del. whatsoever.

He admitted thei

residence was his and both telephones in the residence were in

his name.

(The third telephone installed by BAWCUM was on the

other side of the duplex, where BAWCUM maintained a residence.)

It was subsequently ascertained by the Baltimore Office that

telephone number called in Wilmington was one of 32 telephones used

by Delaware Sports Service which disseminates race results to

customers for a fee.

Investigation in this matter is

continuing in view of the above developments, and MARSHALLS

will be reinterviewed at a later date.

On 6/7/63, information was received from DL 1?

that MARSHALL and BAWCUM were continuing to operate ras!

but had ceased taking any baseball bets as they had le

heavily lately. BAWCUM was handling race bets at the

time according to informant.

DL 1381

WAS TARE

When Reprise

7/319

2

DocId: 02293

---

