# docid-32294593

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10213-10369

RECORD_SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 2-2173-98

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. CAR

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/16/1976

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

08/01/1995

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32294593

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released uner the John F. Kenne

11-14-2017

Assassination

• Records

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT 16 1976

TELETYPE

0161730Z OCT-T6

EM CARACAS (209) (P)

O DIRECTOR IMMED LALEN 10S1

ion Act of 1992

Dir.

SECREE: AD: AM.

Dep.-A.D.-Inv...

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Ext. A Paire

Fin. & Per

Gen. Inv.

Ident. --

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun

Plan & Insp.

Rec. Mgmt.

Spec. Inv.

Training

Telephone

Rm. -

Director Sec'y

UNSUBSS SUSPECTED BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINES DC - 8

NEAR BARBADOS, WEST INDIES OCTOBER 6→1976 NM CUBA=

WEST INDIES OCTOBER 6, 1976, N CUBA-WESI INDIES.

BX

RECARTEL

Cinsolited by

IO MIAMI, OCTOBER 13, 1976.

(GC - 4/20184-352)

ON OCTOBER 13, 1976, FOLLOWING A TELEPHONE REE INPORATION COMPATED

HEREIN TS UNCSASSLMIED

EXOZZ A PENALS SHOWN

SUMMONS, LEGAI PROCEEDED TO DISIP HEADQUARTERS,

OTHERWISE

CARACAS, VENEZUELA, AND MET WITH GENERAL RAUL

GIMENEZ GAINZA, DIRECTOR, ORLANDO GARCIA VA QUEZ,

Вестів

MINISTER COUNSELLOR, RAFAEL RIVAS VASQUEZ, DEPUTY

DIRECTOR, AND RICARDO MORALES MAN-PET E15

ST-108°

LEGAT WAS INFORMED

THAT

THE REASON

5

OCT 20 1976

REQUESTED MEETING WAS TO PROVIDE HIM WITH THE RESULIS

OF PRELIMINARY INQUIRIES MADE BY DISIP INTO THE PRE-

SUMED SABOTAGE OF THE CUBANA AIRLINE AIRCRAFT AT (S

END

PAGE ONE

By

0-73 ta

DiA

F326 381

SECRET

TO NOV 161976/18/76 JPE/RE

DocId: 32294593 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the oohn F. kennedy Assassination Records Collegtion Act of 1992 111 05c 2107 Hotej.

DATE : 11-14-2017

SECRET

PAGE TWO CAR (2-9)

BARBADOS ON OCTOBER 6, 1976. GARCIA RELATED IT IS

BELIEVED BY DISIP THAT THE KEY MALEFACTOR IS FRANK

CASTRO,

WHO IS PRESENTLY THOUGHT TO BE IN MIAMI,

FLORIDA, BUT IS PREPARED IO LEAVE FOR SANTO DOMINGO, Dom Rep.

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC IN THE NEAR FUTURE. HE SAID IT IS

CASTRO AND NOT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA WHO REALLY CONTROLS

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES IN THE HEMISPHERE. HE

SAID IT IS TRUE THAT BOSCH RECEIVED A TELEPHONE

CALL FROM ONE OF THE SUSPECTED SABOTEURS FROM BARBADOS,

AND IT IS ON THE BASIS OF THAI TELEPHONE CALL THAT

VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ HAS DECIDED

THAT

BOSCH SHOULD BE DEPORTED TO THE UNITED STATES.

WHERE A WARRANT FOR HIS ARRESTS QUISTANDING. BEE

GARCIA STATED. THAT ANOTHER KEY FIGURE IN THE

OPERATION IS LUIS POSADA ÒF CARACAS WHO HAS

BJ-S+

venezueta

ARRESTED AND IS BEING HELD BY DISTP

FOR QUESTIONING.

HE SAID THE TWO SUSPECIS ARRESTED IN TRINIDAD AND

OTHERS ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED IN THE ATTACK ON IHE

AIRCRAFI ARE ALL EMPLOYEES OR ASSOCIATES OF POSADA.

GARCIA STATED FURTHER THAT ONE OF THE SUSPECTS UNDER (5)

END

PAGE TWO

SECRET

2-2173-98

DocId: 32294593 Page 3

---

## Page 4

"Released under the John Fy kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE :

11-14-2917

SECRET

PAGE THREE CAR (2-9)

BarBados

ARREST IN IRINIDAD,

HER NA-YIR ICARDO LOZANO

WAS PAR1

OF THE DISIP SPECIAL SERVICES APPARATUS WHEN IT WAS

UNDER THE DIRECIION OF POSADA, BEFORE POSADA'S

RESIGNATION FROM DISIP IN 1973(3)

HE SAID A VENEZ NAMED ALFREDO OUTIERREZ

WAS BELIEVED TO HAVE BEEN IN BARBADOS WITH HERNAN

RICARDO LOZANO IN JULY, 1976, AT THE IIME OF THE

BOMBINGS DIRECTED AGAINST THE BRITISH WEST INDIES-

AIRLINES THERE. HE STATED. THAT THE PRESENT WHERE-

ABOUTS OF GUTIERREZ WAS NOT KNOWN. (S)

GARCIA REVEALED THAT INVESTIGATION HAD DISCLOSED

THAT ANOTHER VENEZUELA, OLEG GUETON TOOR IUEZ DE LA

ASERRA TRET I SCOFF, "TOGETHER WIIH HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO,

WAS IN PORI OF SPAIN, TRINIDAD, ON AUGUST 38, 1976.:

HE SAID THE TWO SHARED ROOM 903 AT THE IRINIDAD HILTON

HOTEL AND CHECKED OUT OF THE HOTEL AFTER ONE DAY.

BOMBING OF THE GUYANESE CONSULATE IN PORT OF SPAIN

OCCURRED ON SEPTEMBER 1, 1976. (S)

GARCIA SAID THE ANTI- CASTRO GROUP APPEARED TO

HAVE CONTACTS ESTABLISHED IN IRINIDAD, BARBADOS AND (5)

END PAGE THREE

SECRET

2-2173-98

DocId: 32294593 Page 4

---

## Page 5

" Released under the dom T. Kennety Assassination

DATE: 11-14-2017

Retortis

714 050

SECRET

PAGE FOUR CAR (2-9)

GUYANA, AND THE DIVERSITY OF ITS MEMBERS WAS PUZZLING.

HE POINTED OUT THAT SOME OF THE PERSONS ALLEGED TO

HAVE FORMED PART OF THE GROUP ARE DEFINITELY LEFTISTS

AND WOULD NOT ORDINARILY BE THOUGHT TO BE INVOLVED

IN ACTIONS AGAINST CUBA. HE MENTIONED AS AN EXAMPLE,.

FREDDY LUGO, ONE OF THE SUSPECIS UNDER ARREST IN

TRINIDAD. GARCIA STATED THAT LUGO HAS LONG BEEN

KNOWN FOR HIS LEFTIST SENTIMENTS AND THAT LUGO HAD

PRESENTED A PHOTOGRAPHIC EXHIBITION IN CARACAS IN

1975 THAT WAS BLATANTLY

ANTI-ESTABLISHMENT. (5)

GARCIA STATED THAT INCONGRUETIES SUCH AS THIS

LED DISIP TO THE SUSPICION THAT THE GROUP WAS

SUPPORTED AND DIRECTED BY AS YET UNIDENTIFIED

INDIVIDUALS IN VENEZUELA, AND POSSIBLY ABROAD, WHOSE

GOAL IT IS TO DISCREDIT DISIP AND THE ADMINISTRATION

OF PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ BY MAKING IT APPEAR

THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT IS DIRECTING ATTACKS AGAINST

THE CASTRO GOVERNMENT, AND THAT IT HAS, IN EFFECT,

"DECLARED WAS ON CUBA." (5)

DISIP OFFICIALS ASKED LEGAT TO RELAY THEIR 5)

END PAGE FOUR

SECRET

2-2173-98

DocId: 32294593 Page 5

---

## Page 6

'Released under the John f. kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

7.,

SUE!

PAGE FIVE CAR (2- 9)

REQUEST TO FBIHQ THAT FRANK CASTRO BE LOCATED IN

MIAMI, FLORIDA, AND INTERVIEWED FULLY REGARDING HIS

SUSPECTED KNOWLEDGE OF THE CUBAN AIRLINES CRASH

AND OF THE IDENTITIES OF THE PERSONS INVOLVED. (S)

ABove INfORMATiON fURNiShEs FOR INFORmATION ONLyA

FBIHO iS AWARE MAT UASMO HISS AtREsSDY BeEN

intervenes By Miami.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

TRANSMITTAL OF ABOVE MESSAGE DELAYED DUE TO

EQUIPMENT FAILURE IN CARACAS OFFICE.

BI

SECRET

2-2173-98

DocId: 32294593

Page 6

---

