# docid-32300195

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10226-10475

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-86406-2ND NR 21, 3RD NR 21, 4TH NR 21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

06/11/1965

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

GPH, ASSOC, CUBAN EXILES, REVOLUTIONARY ACT, ACA,

TRA, DOMR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM, MEMO, 2 TTY

v9.1

NW 45812

DocId: 32300195

17

Page 1'

---

## Page 2

FD 36 FRey. Dj32-643

FBI.

Date:

6/11/65

Transmit the following in

: (Type in plaintext or code)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASS ATON AND/OR,

Via

AIRTEL

REGISTERED MAIL

RELEASE AS CLEORMATION

(Priority)

IN THIS DOCUMENT KP- 2-5=98

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SID IISR

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (2-new) (P)

Www2-21-98

RE:

ATON CONSTANZO, PALAU

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

ETAL

NM; IS - DR

HEREIN LE UNCLASSIFIE

DATE /34/95 8Y SAsmA/ace

per ciA letter $19/27

Re Miami teletype to Bureau 6/10/65.

Enclosed herewith are 12 copies of LHM

dated and captioned as above.

Copies of LHM are being disseminated

locally to ONI, CIA, G-2, INS, OSI, Border Patrol,

Customs, Coast Guard, FAA and

State Department,

Coordinator of Cuban Affairs.

MM T-1 is CIA message dated 6/9/65, en-

titled "Recruitment of Cuban Exiles in Miami, Florida

to Assist General ANTONIO IMBERT BARRERAS, Head of

the Loyalist Forces in the DR," classified SECRET.

MM T-2 is

by request:

19/7

MM T-3

• is MM 977-S.

Enclosed LHMs are being classified SECRET

inasmuch as they contain information

from CIA so

classified

626

1105-86406-

Bureau

"(Encs-12), (RM-AM)

NOT RECORDED

1

- Miami

176 JUN 22 1965,

RJD: jms/ggr

(4)

1965

Wick

• 3

Approved:

Sent

_ M

Per

ORIGINAL FILED

OTHER 4

105=

Special

Agent in Charge

NW 45812 DocId: 32300195 Page 2

---

## Page 3

*EP-3617010$-22-41) .

FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

(Priority)

MM 2-new

U. S. Customs advised that as yet it has not

received information from CIA contained in referenced CIA

message of 6/9/65.

Miami will maintain contact with

and keep the Bureau advised.

Miami

mill also

await Department decision whether a neutrality matter

investigation is desired and the participants in this

matter interviewed.

OTHER 4

-2-

Approved:

Sent

_M

Per .

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45812 DocId: 32300195 Page 3

---

## Page 4

UNITE: STATES DEPARTMENT OF * STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

MM 2 - new

CIA HAS NO OSJECTION TO

# 0.9R.

1. 1/31/15

DECLASSIFIM

INED

Miami, Florida

June 11, 1965

CRET

IN THIS DOCCERE.

KP 2-5-48

ATON CONSTANZO PALAU;

SID/KSR

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, ET AL

2-21-98

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

INTERNAL SECURITY - DOMINICAN REPUBLIK

On June 9, 1965, MM T-I, another government agency

which conducts intelligence type investigations, advised

that the following information was received from a Cuban

refugee associated with activists in the Miami area.

A commando force of 49 Cuban exiles and 1l Amer-

icans is being formed in Miami by ODELIO GARCIA DERIZANZO

and GERALD PATRICK HEMMING. It is being supported by an

unidentified person believed to reside outside of the

Miami area.

The commando team is to be used by Dominican

General ANTONIO IMBERT BERRERAS, head of the Loyalist

Forces in the Dominican Republic (DR). Presumably this

commando group will try to overthrow rebel forces in the

DR.

On June 8, 1965, GARCIA and ATON CONSTANZO PALAU

met with GERALD PATRICK HEMMING who said that 10 of his

followers, all American citizens, were ready to join the

in the Dominican operation.

antomatic

dec

zion

APPROTT

роби

COTT

Tudar

105-86406

FICICENSE

NW

45812

DocId: 32300195

Page 4

---

## Page 5

ATON CONSTANZO PALAU, ET AL

ARERET

several times for involvement in these activities. MM T-2

stated that CONSTANZO and HEMMING use an application form

for the recruits to complete and of the thousands of young

unemployed Cuban refugees in Miami recruitment is easy.

MM T-2 pointed out that General IMBERT has ade-

quate forces in the DR and with U.S. and OAS Forces in

that country, it is highly unlikely that 60 Cuban exiles

and American

adventurers would be of any value.

MM T-2 explained that CONSTANZO and HEMMING are

constantly involved in plans for revolutionary activity,

the plans never materialize and it appears highly unlikely

that this plan will ever be put into force.

MM T-3, a Dominican national, who has furnished

reliable information in the past and is in close associa-

tion with Dominican Consulate officials in Miami, on June

I1, 1965 stated that the DR Consulate in Miami has not

issued any visas since April 25, 1965 and does not plan

to issue any in the near future.

MM T-3 said that after U.S. Armed Forces landed

in the DR on April 28, 1965 and the subsequent arrival of

OAS troops, there is no need for Cuban exile volunteers

and none are wanted.

MM T-3 explained that in early May, 1964, some

Cuban exiles in Miami visited the Dominican Consulate

and volunteered their services in the DR to fight against

Communism. Consulate officials felt that the Cuban

volunteers were more interested in obtaining press

SECRET

- 4 -

NW 45812 DocId: 32300195 Page 5

---

