# docid-32176761

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10187-10055

RECORD_ SERIES:

NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 89-75-702. 703

Released

under

the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 53025 Date:

05-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PALGUTA. JOSEPH J.

TO:

SAC. NY

TITLE:

DATE: 06/01/1967

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

JFK, ASSA, CUBA, REQ, INFORMATION, JG, IMPLICATIONS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

02/03/1997

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

NN 53025 DocId:32176761 Page 1

---

## Page 2

belle

..• OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1192 ELITION

UNITED STATES GOV

NMENT®

Memorandum

TO

SECRE

SAC, NEW YORK (105-36926)

DATE: 6/1/67

FROM

SA JOSEPH J. PALGUTA (343)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED.

HEREIN IS UNCLASS'FIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

SUBJECT:

PRENSA LATINA

IS-CUBA

LEMR CAT

Glassified

Source

Date of Contact

Contacting Agent

Reliability

L NY 576

5/29/67

JOSEPH I. PALCUTA

Who has

furnished reliable

information in the past.

(6)

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD

14

ON: 25X

11140/97/5742

10/261

TEK)

DECLASS

5668-540/mde

I 6769)

advised that!

Prensa Latine Fu in

Havana,

Cuba

the

forlowing service messages to pu

in NYC

on the

dates indicated:

45/21/617(8) 4)

PI, in Havana in this message requested to be

sent photographs of

the interview with STONELY CARMICHAEL.

2'

5/24/57

XIn

ins message fu in Havana urgently

Frequested (8Vn)

that it

magazine

therein by

ALSOP WAS

sent the article appearing in

Saturday Evening

JOHNSON's popularity and the article appearina

SVETLANA STALIN

This message indicated

autho a tie article about JOINSON. (Su)

3.

In this message PL in Havana indicated that it be

urgently advised if Venezuela presented a patition for a

meeting

Cuba

Чиї

the

"Consultive Organ" in its denouncement of

-New

York

(100-153751) (STOKELY CARMICHAED)

I New

York

York

89-75)

Assassina

of

1- New

105-31034)

(CMUN C

President KENNEDY)

I- New

York

109-108)

Matters

of Venezuela)

1- New

York

- 80730

(SVETLANA STALIN

1- New

York

34-13009)

INV

1-New

York

7(2)

SERIALIZED/

... "

IJP:arf

(7)

251

SECRE

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plati

HH 53025

DooId:32176761

Page 2

Akerne

69-75-700

---

## Page 3

Seuket

NY 105-36926

4

# 5/23/67 7(S(u)

message PL in Havana indicated that it

the pertinent

statements of GARRISON and the implication of Cubans in

assassination of President KENNEDY.

5{5/26/67 7(8)(4)

In this message PL in Havana requested PL in NYC

to furnish the following information to PL correspondent

TOMOSSI in Montreal

Canada.

"You ought to remain in

stand-by status until you receive new instructions."

(SIN)

6.15/26/67

In this message PI. in Havana expressed a desire

to be advised regarding the Port of Chicago and whether

Chicago has access to the sea by way of the Great Lakes.

PL in Havana also desired to know if this access

1]

accommodate ships which carry arms to Vietnam.

NY 5768-S advised that on 5/24/67, PL in Mexico

•City telephonically advised PL in NYC that nothing happened

in the meeting of

the Organization of American States

and

that venezuela did not present the Anti-Cuba report.(s

IN THE EVENT ANY OF THE ABOVE INFORMATION IS

DISSEMINATED OUISIDE THE BUREAU.

IT SHOULD BE APPROPRIATELY

2

ron

NEGIVE

NH 53025 DooId:32176761 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD

DECLASSIEX:

ON:

25X

C) 10/21/96

5668-

D/ m

SẠC (105-36926)

SA JOSEPH J. PALGUTA #343

SECRET;

6/6/67

ALL INFORMATION CONTAMED

WEREIN

IS UNCLASSIFIED: EXCEPE

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE:

PRENSA LATINA

IS - CU

(S)

Source

NNY 4218-S

Date of Contact

5729/67

Contacting Agent.

SA JÖSEPH J

PALGUTA

Reliability

Who has furnished reliable

(S)

information in the past

NY 4218-S advised that on 5/19/67 Prensa Latina (PL)

in Havana, Cuba

sent a service message to, PL in NYC

ut part, ent portions contained, her a rate a 00110s:

This

was a rather long message

"Shalam Brother

I suppose you have already

sent information on CEPAL meeting in Caracas, Venezuela:

Beginning of May there was in Washington a meeting of the

little people of B.I.D.

According to informant, PLin

Havana indicated in this message that it was pery much

interested in a report by PHILLIP SMITH LOVE and details

of B.I.D.'s 1966 activities. According to informant, this

message was

sent to the attention of PORTELA (Chief of pr

NYC. and the name

the bottom of this message was COLINO

NY 4218-S further advised that on 5/24/67, PL, in

Havana sent

a service message to PL in NYC addressed to the

attention of PORTELAL

This message, according to informant

was marked urgent andxpi in Havana requested that they be

sent all information concerning GARRISON's declerations

implications of Cuban counter-revolutionaries

also indicated that the local press in Havana was awaiting

information concerning the above mattery

Informant stated

that the name FELIX DITA appeared at the

message

signifying he was

the sender of

80

75 ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

KENNEDY).:

-1725 (FRANCISCO PORTELA, SU)

-31084 (Cuban Mission to

the

United Nations

1

108 Foreign Political Matter

Venezuela

34(g885(INV) 105

JJPiljg.

(6)

SAT SECRET

261-203

SARCHED

ERIALIZED AS FILE

Cherne

53

025

1761

Page:

---

## Page 5

SECRET

IVY 105-36926

in Havana,

requested

In NYC to forward tha

follow

mossago to pt reprosontative JARDON in Yoxico City:

#Tell TIMOSSI, to

stand by: till further notice

(se 28 to be noced thai vinossi is the Le representative

La Montreat, Canada (S wi

my Dens s rurther advised that Prin Havana

cent a service message to PL in NYC on 5/25/67, indicating

that it was intorented in inforation about the Security

Council's meeting re-stablishing Chine a legttimate rights.

further advisca that on 5/21/6% PL in

MXC serit a service

messago to PL. in Havana.

In this messago

10 Was stated that the "Now York Times" contained en article

&hat ALAJO CARPENTER 100t his job es Diroctor of Cuban

Publishing House...

In this message

sent by PORTELAjit was/i

indicated that he, (PORYELA) thought CARPENTIER was attached

of the Cuban Embasay In Parls and requestos

I to be advised.of

CARPENTER's wherenbouts and his title,

I Gangs rusther advised ends on 5/2s/67. pe in.

NYC relayed the foll

owing message from PL in Mexico City to

PE in Havana, Cuba: (S

"Please be at frequency CLA 91 for reception at 8.

Thers aro too /h1gh.

According to informant,

JARDOR appeared di

the cha of this message (SH)

the name

Ny (4218-3 rurther advised that on 5/25/67, NYC

rolayed a mesase from PL in Montreal, Cannda to PL in Havana,

Cuba.::

In this message le was indicatod that I'MOSsI left

DC 201 Mexico

and should arrive in Havena on the neit

Cuban Plight

:2

53025

Docid: 32176761 Pagers

---

## Page 6

MY 105-36926

IN THE EVENT ANY OF THE ABOVE INFORNATTON IS

DISSELINATED OUISIDE HE BUREAU TV SHOULAT

APPROPROSUETY

53025 • DocId 32176761 : Page :6

---

