# docid-32325728

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90037-10010

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

100-380792-10

Released under the John

F. Rennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/28/1952

MARTIN GREENDLINGER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

74 53074

DooId: 32325728

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Mewin

SECUNTY

UNITED"STA

LOVERNMENT 1

TO

Director, FBI

DATE:October 28, 1952

SAC, New York (100-105045)

SUBJECT:

*MARTIN GREENDLINGER

SECURITY MATTER - C

(Origins New York)

ReNYrep of SA SIDNEY E. HOWE dated 7/10/52 at New York and Albany

letter to the Bureau dated 9/2/52 (FD-128)•

Mrs. JOHN J. MCLAUGHLIN, wife of the building superintendent,

184 Clarkson Avenue,

Brooklyn, New York,

advised on October 6, 1952, that

the subject resides at this address and that he attends school

on a full time

basis.

4-1

Miss BEVERLY DRYCKER, Office of the

Registrar, Brooklyn College,

Brooklyn, New York advised SA JOHN SCANNELL on October 8, 1952, that

GREENDLINGER is currently enrolled as a student at this institution.

Mrs. La HIGGINS, Clerk, Local Board 44, 85 Flatbush Avenue,

Brooklyn, New York, was unable to furnish additional information regarding

the subject.

In addition to the Confidential Informants mentioned in reference

report, confidential informant NY-769-S, who is familiar with some phases

of Labor Youth League Activity in New York City and vicinity, advised SA

STANLEY R. SHARP on October 10, 1952, that he could furnish no information

regarding the subject.

A review of the indices of the New York Office reveals no

information identifiable with this subject which has not been previously

reported. . In view of this individual's student status and in view of the

fact that he does not appear to be in a position to furnish information

of value, permission to interview him is not being requested and this case

is being placed in a closed status.

REGISTERED MAIL

SEH: DP

RECORDED 140

EX-1U4

GI.R. -8

11003380792-10

ост 30, 19583

DECPIESITIED BY SPL

ON

753

i NOV 8: 1952

ALL, INPORATION, CONTA

ERE HIS /NGTASY SPORAL GAL

(TEK)

NW 53074 DocId: 32325728

Page 2

---

