# docid-32339354

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90147-10067

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-93072-70

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

WANNALL

SULLIVAN

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/07/1962

3

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32339351 Page 1

59

---

## Page 2

Released under. the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (11 U5€ 210

DATE: 11-14-2017

'OPTIGNAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVER!

ENEL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

Memorandum WHERE SHOYCONEBENTIAL

SENDI

Livan

SECA

August 7, 1962

nall i

Tolson …

Belmont _

Mohr

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach _

Evans

Malone

Ivan ta

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes —

Gandy -

HOLSTER

SEE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

CIASSIFICATION

ACTION

CHOMAS

GIBSON

SECURITY - CUBA

TION ACT - CUBA

1 - Mr. Belmont

1 = Liaisor

sulLivar

1 - Mr. Wannall

1 - Mr. Dunn

Wook

Magrillad

Category!

0806/400-303138

is U.S. citizen who is

Acting

Executive Secretary of

jation Fair Play for Cuba Committee (FPCC). Lin letter

urned over to the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), he indicated desire

o get in touch with that Agency discreetly? 'He indicated it was a matte

of "life or death." (CIA has indicated it would be willing to contact

subiect in New York and arrange subsequent meeting,

: Recommended that New York be instructed to contact

advised that our New York Office Is handling contact desos

will furnish it any pertinent data developed.

Declassily on: DADA 3) 87

• By letter 7/16/62 to Thornton Hagert, Falls Church, Virginia,

subject requested that Hagert's stepbrother, Philip K. Reiss, contact

his former employers-

(CIA) and tell them that Gibson has been trying to

get in touch with CIA for several weeks. Gibson indicated that this

was a matter of "life or death" and indicated that he believed he could

be of extreme value to CIA and that they could be of great help to him in

a "very difficult situation. "Hagert was requested to destroy the letter

after he had read it.

CIA turned the letter over to us and indicated

that Reiss was

Agriculture.

a former can ployee who Is now employed by Department of

Classied Bas

We instrueted

Washington Field

EG: 24

105-93072-70

to Interview Reiss and Hagert.

RECORDED CODY

Interviews of these two individuals revealed that subject

and Hagert

went to high school together and were very close friends at that time.

Hagert has seen the subject intermittently since that time, and Hagert

could not

-E26'11%'

New York has advised that it has ino,information indicating

subject has become disenchanted with FPCC

feels he may hash it mattvated by frah or teurtent duban regite. New York

FOSLOST 10040: 07-4196 Crair Play for Guba Committee)

JJD:djwaN

SEGAL.

DocId: 32339354

Page 2

---

## Page 3

„Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SEGRET

Memorandum for Mr. Sullivan

RE: RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

105-93072

CONPIDENTIAL

(1) Belief that he may be subject to attack by anti-Castro

Cubans in

New York City;

(2) Desire to cooperate with CIA in order to be able to say

at a later date that, though he was working with FPCC, he was cooperating

with U.S. officials; s)

(3) Monetary reasons in view of the fact his actions indicate

he enjoys living well and traveling first-class. It has been reported

that he is presently having financial difficulties.

IX

If subject desires to cooperate with U. S. Government, it is

not known why he did not contact us.

He certainly must be aware of our

interest To ne he a ve chan that since thee elde mas

reason was in contacting CIA, it is not felt we should pass up this

opportunity to contact him. l

Our investigation of the FPCC developed data

from inadmissible sources that FPCC received money from Cuban Government

We have been attempting to make Registration Act case on FPCC and Gibson

could very well be individual who could furnish pertinent data in this

regard

If he is desirous of cooperating with U. S. Government, we could

If furnish us a great deal of

data in view of his high position with FreCA

It is felt we should have

New York contact him and indicate to Gibson they are contacting him in

utilized by us or whether he is just looking for an "out" in view of

dwindling activities and prestige of FRiCA COu)

RECOMMENDATIONS:

(1) If you approve, CIA will be advised by Liaison that, in

response to data which it furnished regarding subject, our New York

Office has been instructed to contact Gibson and that

we

will furnish

it any pertinent data developed of interest to CIA,

(2) That the artached airtel be sent to lew

"it to promptly contact Gibson, but nöt at office

instructing

ГРСЯ

BET SECKET

NENENTIAL

W72. to

CONEIRENTENL

DocId: 32339354 Page 3

---

