# docid-32143239

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

DENTIRICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

collection

Met

1992

144

2107 NotEl.

Case#: Nu

54046 Date: 08-23-2017

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10071-10240

RECORD_ SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 62-109060-5679

• DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

. FROM:

SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/09/1967

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: JFK, SUSPECT, "SPONTEJO"

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

01/05/1994

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

INC FBI S/S

NW 54046 DocId: 32143239 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-SC (Rer. 5-22-64)

FBI

Transmit the following in

CONNE

ENTIAL

Date: 8/9/67

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

+'**

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (163-0)

SUBJECT:

"SPONTEJO"

INTORMATION CONGERNING

FPC

ASSASsINatION of.

Prio

on 8/7/67, YOSNY (4677

information, which

as obtaine

source, whose reliability is not known:

14. 27/93

Mashed bs 9803

Declassily on: 0a0t J

JahN F

KeNNedI

Levellent

furnished the following

from a non-controlled

A Cuban, believed to be of Mexican origin.

known only as

and described as a "G-? agent"

was reportedly involved in the assassination of presidend

JOHN E: KENNEDY.

The source is unable to furnish any additional

clarifying information, and, in order to better evaluate

the source of the foregoing information, has

requested

any information identifiable with

"SPONTEJO"

Indices of the NYO were carefully searched

concerning captioned, including phoenetic variations thereor,

with negative results.

pertinent identifiable

The bureau is requested to search indices for anya

information which may be furnished

to

the source.

ALT TETOSMATTON CONTAINDO

WENDIN IS UNCIMOSIZIED EXCEPT

WERE SHOWN ODERWISE.

1

]

Bureau,

-134+13000 )C)

1-FOREIGN LIAISON

-

New York

134{10776

- New

York

REG- 24

62109040-5679

186/47

16 AUG 1 1 1967

BKK: pmm

(7)':

(+ No. record re

) No pertinent data re

) No identifiable data re

( ) No additional dasa re

GHS

Approved:

" Special

Sent

— M

Per

ent

Charge

54046

DocId: 32143239

Page 2

UNRECORDED

COPY FILAI

---

