# docid-32289504

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10201-10280

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2781-559

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/17/1962

2

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LST, MISUR, INSTALLATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: - 10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32289501 Page 1

27

---

## Page 2

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USe 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

= OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVEKNMENT

Memorandum

FROM

SAC, TAMPA 1(66-231 Sub 1j*:

SUBJECT:

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka.

(00:

TAMPA)

JUNE

A source at the General Telephone Company of Florida,

lampa, Florida, on May 16, :1962,

advised SA EARL M. PETERSEN,

that 876-2207, the non-published number of subject, works in

Cable H, pair 386 at rear of 2504 Edgewood. The count here

is 383-393:

All of these numbers are in use.

The above numbers appear as follows:

H 376-X4 appears at side of 2403 Bristol

B 381-390 appears at side of 2402 Bristól.

PADR

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

DATE: 5/17/62

Inasmuch as no spare pairs are available, it will not

se possible to install an SPMT"misur at the home of SANTO CU

TRAFFICANTE.

It is also not possible at this time to install

any other type of misur using wires to exit as

no spare pairs

are available for leased line service.

The only type of installation would be a radio trans-

mitter which would require a nearby plant. It would be desirable

that an AC operated transmitter be used.

Should a battery-operated

transmitter be used it would last no more than about four to five

days.

Shortly after

this the batteries would be exhausted to the

point where they could start leaking acid. For security reasons

this would not be desirable.

In view of the above set forth facts, as well as the

fact that sub

vect is residing at Miami, Florida, no further

action is:

ing taken at this time in captioned

matter,

but

the Tampa Office is pressing for other suitable locations to

penetrate subject's alleged organization.

42-2781-559

REC ERA

DECLASSIE

1

-

Bureau (RM)e .,

Tampa

SJL: jn

(3)

17 MAT

1962

6/4/6=

DocId: 32289504 Page 2

---

