# docid-32339777

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90151-10022

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO : WMFO

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/08/1962

3

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

ALINE MOSBY

NORMAN RAY RENNION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1B; 1C

Redact

10/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NY 45886 DocId: 32339777 Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

G

1

- Putnam

- Lenihan

ALL INTORMATION CONTAINET

ASTRIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WIERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SAC, Washington

REC-I

Director, IBI (134(11934) - 2

Field (234(96591)(1

12-8-62

9/14/98

CLASSIIED BY Sabsusplde

QECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(S)

3/6/95

JFK

Clansil

Declassro

loy

5688 5LD/GCL

013°

85(55K)

OTHER 1b,

1c'

129

Bourlot 10-24-62.

Authority granted to rocontact

to further (S

assoss his suitability, availability and posential jor possible

or double agent agalast the soviets s)

ALl partinont developuents resulting fron your contact vith

should be promptly furnished to the Buroan, and CS

xurther handling of this matter should conform with instructione

set out in Section 1058, poges 33-35, Hanual of Instrvetions.

you reported that

Your attention to directod to page 2

of rolet wherein

furnished information concerning (S)

the attenpted conpromise ot aline losby, a United Press lateraationaz

(UPI) correspondent in Moscow.

A check of Ruliles indicates Aline

Losay is identical to the Aline Mosby who is considered a poseible :-

UNRECORDED COPY FILED

muspoct in your caso entitled "Unknoun Subjact; Soviet Agent, Source

for political Information, Tho Is a Corrospondent in the Vashington,

1. Co, Area, nepionage - Reiyyour file 62-3652.

An estra copy of this

conmunication is being desigrated your office for filing in latter case.

Inasmuch as the Soviets, according

to conpronise Aline Mosby during her assignant in Loscow,

attempted (s)

sive consideration to the possibility the Soviets actually succeeded

you should

in such conpronise efforts and that Miss losby my be identical with -

the unknow correspondent ho is allogodly & Soviet agent. You should

discreetly ascertain the proseat assignant of Miss loaby,

you dateraine she is located in the

U.S.,

you should five

conoideration

to conducting appropriate investigation of lina Hosby to eithor 3den1419

bar as the subject or to eliminate her as a suspect in your case

Involvag che unknown SOvLet

Vashington,

D. C., areals) Usent who is a correspondeni

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahar

Conrad

Deloich

• Malorie

*, Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele.

Holmi

Gandy.

1 - 105-110975 L Sovie

Lift who is Correspondent in Washington, D.C.

-NOTE :

SEE

-REL: mhd

1 (7)

PAGE TWO

E 9

MARLED 20

H NOV 1619

TELETYPE UNIT!

wess

fel

COMM-FBI

CRET

NW 45886 DocId: 32339777

Page 2

---

## Page 3

642 к

Letter to

re:

Washineton

Field Stre

PSI - DESECO - R

NOTE:

and is

a member o a to nates esca.

1s a Journalistlemployed by (UPI) Washington, D.C., (5)

He has had contacts

in the past with Soviet correspondents at the United Press Club,

and during a sounding-out interview he was cooperative in furnishing

WrO details regarding his knowledge of these Soviet officials. U)

During such interview, he also furnished information concerning

Aline Mosby, indicating that when Miss Mosby was stationed in Moscow

with UPI, she was found unconscious and partially disrobed in a

OTHER 1b, 1c

/CS)

at the American Embassy and it was determined she had been drugged.

Our informant in the

TOPHAT case advised on 5-14-62 that Soviets have

a source for political information who is a correspondent in the

Washington, D.C., area. TOPHAT indicated this correspondent visited

Russia

• during

the same period that former Vice President Nixon was in

Russia in 1959.

WFO conducting investigation to identify this unknown

correspondent and is giving consideration as suspects those corres-

pondents who were actually assigned in Moscow during Nixon's visit

there,

in addition to those reporters who actually accompanied Nixon to

-2

-

SECRET

NW 45886 DocId: 32339777 Page 3

---

