# docid-32171556

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JIK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10173-10375

RECORD_SERIES:

WMFO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO:

TITLE: CR 100-16597-SUB I-5104

DATE: 02/13/1964

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT:

JR, TRIAL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

10/30/1998

STATUS

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32171556

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED REPEIN IS

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED

... INDEXES

CLASSIFIED UNLESS OT

ASE NOTED

3/1/64

X & Y SUMMARY

10:02

WE 27975

65-36 /S

EVGENI V•

• State Dept. statibo

sending KONSTANIINI. ZOTOV and ARKADI Pe VERGEI tO

Boston tomorrow.

see JURIAAgEEV).

BUBROV said

that he promised to tell GUTHRiE the situation.

GUTHRIE

HARA

said that he would like to hese from BUGROV when they

get back as to what they have found up there.

BUGROV

said let them go tomornow and he will call and tell the

4.

departure time a little later. OK.

jel

10:u8 an

WES27975

65-37

VERGEI said that he had nothing planned as yet. BUGROV

HARD

Johaisin

1:44 pm

WF 279+5

55-50 yS

5:12

ora,

WE 1528

46-47

SINE

CLASSIFIED B

DocIa: 3 DEGLASSIEX ON: 25X.

tomorrow morning. OK.

BUGROV added that he should see

ZOTOV and he*ll explain everything to VERGEI. OK.

(Russian)

Jel

NIKOLAI G.\ REZNICHENKO to Dutyman wanting to know if

anyone asked for

No.

He told REZNICHENKO that

table downstairs

REZ said he knew about this;

that he will a be at the Emb tomorrow morning early,

as he and KARPOVICH. BORIS V. will be going to NY

by car tomor row. Dutyman wanted to know if he planned

on he there. today, and informed in about ianours

(Russian) jel

IVAN E. AKULOV to wife of ARKADRI P. VERGEI (TAMARA

Ael VERCEL) asking that she pass

Sather was preparing to have an operation.

He explainec

there was a telegram to VERGEI to this etect.

TAMARA,

obviously received this infor ation rather hard, as she

burst into tears.

(Russian)

SERGEI N. VISHNEVSKI to ALEKSANDR Ad

KOKOREV, doorman at

**Embassy,

asking

le was given the number 779-7248.

SE DEREVENSO

(Russian)

SERGEI NO VISHNEVSKI to

GENNADI. G. DEREVENSKOV,

who has

apparently been sick. DEREVENSKOV

said that Dr VERGEI

(ARKADI.P.d had visited him today and that he has no.

temperature at the present time,

but has not eaten anything

today.

They discuss DEREVENSKOV illness

at some length

hen VISHNEVSKI tells DEREVENSKOV about VITALI VO PETRUSENK

being here

DEREVENSKOW said he

39534(S)

100-7494.972-5104

FBI-Wasti

F.01.2

---

## Page 3

"Released under

the John

DATE: 11-14-2017

1.0107

Kenuterly

Assassinal

SECRET

Records

Cortection Act

1992 194 050

Hotel.

WASHINGION, D.C.

March 1, 1964

SUNDAY

3/1/64

5:34 pm

WF 1528-5

146-57

62-23

5:55 pm.

02-2287%

62-24

WEJ2797S

60-51 ' 9

6:28

• pm

WE 279+S

62-25 9

6:89

pm

WE 32075

CHal

SUMMARY

(CONTINUED :)

VISHNEVSKI to DEREVENSKOV:

he had requested a vacation so he could rest awhile.

VISHNEVSKI said he knew this.

VISHNEVSKI indicated he

had wanted one day.

VISHNEVSKI says he is considering

the End of May or first of June. PETRUSENKO then came

to the phone and talked to DEREVENSKOV, again going over

DEREVENSKOV*s illness and then PETRUSENKO mentioned ;he

had been to the office (Tass ?) for a short while

(Russian)

aLready.

VITALI V.PETRUSENKO, tO VLADIMIR V. VASHEDCHENKO JuNO told y

PETRUSENKOl that this morning he had read the

newspaper and

then took a walk, meeting some friends and then decided to

go to see Fort Washington, not far outside of Washington,

and on the way stopped at the Tass Officel to check on his

work. He returned about 40 minutes agor

PETRUSENKO said

that he had read about JACK BUBY(ph) in Dallas yesterday

and that today he was taken by wISHnevska to see both

the Senate and the House of Representatives and then went

with the children to see the airplanes in smithsonian

Institute.

VASHEDCHENKO suggested PETRUSENKO, as both

VASHEDCHENKO and his wife will be at home.

SOK. PETRUSENKO

agreed to come over a little later. (Russian)

FELTAN FELLARD (ph) to SERGE N

are there and "that Mr KLUTZ would

VISHNEVSKI excused himselfs

stating that he had a friend visiting him from New yor!

City, that helhad not seen for a long time, and that ne

couldn*t be so impolite as to leave him. He suggested that

they meet some other time. OK. PETRUSENKO, VITALI V., the

friend from New York ?).

Unknown man (Soviet) to VLADIMER PO ZAITSEV,

asking if the

film had started.

LAlISEV said it had.

Caller asked

if LENID Yo

PETROVICHEV was near byd

ZAITSEV said thạt

PETROVICHEV was watching the film.

Caller (whom ZAITSEV

apparently reconized by voice) asked that when the film

was over that PETROVICHEV contact him at the holme of

SOTOV (KONSTANTIN IVANOVICH) OK.

(Russian)

could contact Omsk, USSRE. He was told any day

between 6:30 AM and 4:30 pm. OK.

pwm

SERGEI N. STUPAR to

ALEKSANDRA ANATOLYEVNA REVINA,

asking

OF VALENTIN ALEKSEEVICH (REVIN) ,

whom he then told to

come to the Embassy.

noted there would be translation

39535 /(S)

143-103.J0

DocId: 32171556 Page 3

---

