# docid-32396531

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10273-10323

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

Released under the John

. Kennedy

488a381nat1on Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

: DIRECTOR'

TITLE : CABLE: HEMMING BROTHERS INVOLVEMENT IN PLOT TO

ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD

DATE : 06/08/1976

PAGES

SUBJECTS : HEMMING GERALD

JFK ASSASSINATION

HEMMING ROBERT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

06/23/04

COMMENTS

JFK-RH15: F12: 20040322-1061606

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10273-10323

14 53217

DocId: 32396531

Page 1

---

## Page 2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

TYPE.

YEAR

NUMBER

= DOC. NO. 00019

NEW DOCUMENT RECORD

PE

82 83 84

835/

Dg019

Instructions for Divisions ond Stolls:

1. Fill in and Sign on line 11

2. Use back of form for any additional comments

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION (Circle if appropriate) (30 CHARACTERS)

JiSes SANITIZES

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

VERSION

CABLE

GARRETCH

FORM

LETTER

MEMO

REPORT

AIRGRAM.

FROM/ORIGINATOR (30 CHARACTERS)

IN-9443575 88JUN7E

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS)

DIR

CLASS

WHERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS)

REFERRED BY (10 CHARACTERS)

DDO?

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

S

201-0309125

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS)

ASSASSiNATiON PLOT INVOLViNG JORGe

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

TYPE

OF

REVIEW

DATE

OF

REVIEW

14

Mar 86

E. Sustain initial denial in toto

F. Sustain

initial release of

of sanitized

version

_ G. Release additional information

10

11

i.14

Determinations:

A. Release

in full text

B.

Release

in sanitized form

*

C. Deny in toto

D.

Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

H. Coordinate with (Specify in

line 8)

VEY

DEFER DECISION TO 110 CHARACTERS) COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS)

CLASS

SIGNATURE OF DO/IMS/ FPLG REVIEWING OFFICER

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)

E. O. 12356

FOIA

31 K1

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

1. Classification

2.

Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

3.

Information pertaining to a liaison

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify the

(b) (3)

source

5.

Information pertaining-to a source

(b) (3)

6.

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

(b) (3)

7. Location

8.

Location

Of CIA overseas installation

(b) (3)

=

of unacknowledged domestic

= (6) (3)

BAes ON

installation

9. Name

of CIA employee

* 10.

File number

11.

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

× 13. Internal organizational data Cable negat # (29)

of an FBI agent

15. FBI file number

16. Privacy of other individual

17. Does not pertain to

request

. 19. Other (Specify in line ll)

PA

(x) (1)

1(1)

( (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(5) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(5)(1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(5) (7) (0)(3) (1)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

(b)

S

REMARKS (IF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVE) (40 CHARACTERS)

(LA

py

REMARKS (160 CHARACTERS)

SIGNATUR

ANTONIO "CooKie" ZIMERI SAFIE AND TWO

AMeRiCANS, BROTHeRS: ROBERT AND GERALD

Thia Form is Unclossiliad Unlo

The Clossification in Charhod

HemmiNG.

and the Information bolow in complered.

- HEMMING, GERAND PREC PAR

---

## Page 3

23-5

SEC

11.1011

ACTION LINII

SSUING OFFICE 1:

• PROHIBITE

STAFF PRECESENCE

PAGE D1

IN 944357

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

SECRET 882220Z JUN 76 STAFF

CITE

frisign stalion

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO deerin Stalen

REFS: Ao tritign strtion

B,

1:

SOURCE

KIN 937052)

_(IN 890367)

I PASSED STATION WRITTEN REPORT AND MADE

VERBAL REPORT IN DETAIL, ALL WITH KNOWLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

ON REF A CASE AND RESULTS.

ACCORDING REPORT AND E-68, NATIONAL

LIBERATION MOVEMENT CHLND WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

ZI MER

•I / SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINCE AUGUST. 75.

IN PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD.

PLOT WAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

OUT 15 SEPTEMBER 75

BÜT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LIFE

LATE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

REPORT SUNCE CLAIM THAT TWO AMERICANS, BROTHERS ROBERT AND

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING INO STATION TRACES, WERE ALSO

INVOLVED WITH ZIMERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISTED HIM IN

ACQUIRING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN YO GUATEMALA

ILLEGÄLLY IN SMALL AIRCRAFT. REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE, 15) REQUESTS

BY LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLOWS:

SECRET

it cris fa

399125

F?.Y

CONBUCTETON EYES 12356

EL REVIEW SKI

4294

D DECL

O DOWNGR TO

REVW ON

CHOR

CITATION

3 Ca

00019

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

HH 53217 DocId: 32396531 Page 3

---

## Page 4

• ;

HE SEC DISSEM BY

_ PER

SON UNIT NOTIFIED_

ANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

TION

UNIT

RF.

FILE

TOTAL

COPIES

REI

REPHODUCTION BY OTHER

STAFF

VR

STIONI

T 981395

E1 A767

PAGE 02

TOR: 0822427 JUN 76

IN 944357

A• IS ZIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT BY

AUTHORITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

AS PURCHASE ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI:

IS HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR POSSIBLE USE IN

GUATEMALA.

D. REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD HEMMING.

E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT. IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY REQUEST HE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA. E-68 SAYS HE LEFT GUATEMALA ILLEGALLY

BUT ARRIVED IN STATES LEGALLY, BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA

_HAS

EXPIRED AND HE THERE ILLEGALLY.

2. STATION PLANS DISSEM INFO ON ZIMERI CASE BUT WITHOUT..

MENTONING HEMMINGS BY NAME. PLAN PREPARE MEMO FOR CHARGE

AND RSO AND WILL SUGGEST THAT LATTER ATTEMPT ANSWER QUESTIONS

FOR LAUGERUD.

opriationa internation. not concerned anil HelmenG.

S

ET

iTH 53217 DocId:32396531 Page 4

---

## Page 5

INE SEC: DISSEM BY.

ISON/UNIT NOTIFIED_

DANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

¡TION UNIT

RF . FILE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

ISSUING

OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

STAFF

FY

.VR

NITION

PAGE D3

TOR: 0822427 JUN 76

IN

944357

Neamen.

epciational en termalien mot echerinien.

not coversing

5

S

RET

HH 53217 DocId:32396531 Page 5

---

## Page 6

È SEC DISSEM BY.

¡ON/UNIT NOTIFIED.

TOTAL

CORES

E C

RUN

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

THAN

ISSUING

OFFICE IS PROMISITED

ET

STAFF

-.^'

•r,e.

RF. FILE.::

VR

N

PAGE D4-04

TOR: 0822427 JUN 76

6 FiLe liberal polaria testalinis

IN 944357

"SECIRÉT

HH 53217

DocId:32396531 Page 6

---

## Page 7

lei see missia 1r 29

!'1ls.

"ạlà!

SECR

=2-4

1r.8001.119s

dE TION DINIS

ICTION BY OTHER THA

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEI

STAFF PRECESTOR

Lurinal Geng unstructions

PAGE 81

IN 944357

TOR: 082242₴ JUN 76

SE C

T D82220Z JUN 76 STAFF

CITE

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INTO deign station

REFS: A. tridigu strilict

KIN/ 937052)

B.

(IN 890367)

1. SOURCL

I PASSED STATION WRITTEN REPORT AND MADE

VERBAL REPORT IN DETAIL, ALL WITH KNOWLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

ON REF A CASE AND RESULTS.

ACCORDING REPORT AND E-68, NATIONAL

LIBERATION MOVEMENT (LND WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

C.n0

ZIMER I SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINCE AUGUST. 75.

IN

PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD. PLOT WAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

=.

OUT j5 SEPTEMBER 75 BÜT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LIFE

LATE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

REPORT STINCE CLAIM THAT TWO AMERICANS. BROTHERS ROBERT AND

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING INO STATION TRACESS, WERE ALSO

INVOLVED WITH ZIMERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISTED HIM IN

ACQUIRING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN TO GUATEMALA

ILLEGÄLLY IN SMALL AIRCRAFT. REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE, 15) REQUESTS

BY LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLOWS:

SERRET

30

NH 53217 DocId:32396531 Page 7

---

## Page 8

LE SEC DISSEM BY

_PER

SON/UNIT NOTIFIED_

INCE COPY ISSUEDISLOTTED

TION UNIT

RF . FILE:

TOTAL

COPIES

S

RET

HUN

REPHODUCTION

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

STAFF

BY

VR

CTION T

T

F

981395

E1 A767

PAGE D2

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

IN

944357

A. IS ZIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT BY

AUTHORITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

AS PURCHASE ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI.

r. IS HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR POSSIBLE USE IN

GUATEMALA.

D.. REQUEST. FOR INFD ON ROBERT AND GERALD HEMMING.

E: IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT. IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY REQUEST HE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA, "E-68 SAYS HE LEFT-GUATEMALA ILLEGALLY

BUT ARRIVED IN STATES LEGALLY, BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HAS

EXPIRED AND HE THERE ILLEGALLY.

2:

STATION PLANS DISSEM INFO ON ZIMERI CASE BUT HITHOUT -

MENTIONING HEMMINGS BY NAME. PLAN PREPARE MEMO FOR CHARGE

AND RSO AND WILL SUGGEST THAT LATTER ATTEMPT ANSWER QUESTIONS

FOR LAUGERUD. •

oprialimo infinalins not concerned winh HenninG.

S

HH 53217 DocId: 32396531 Page 8

---

## Page 9

-. "

"*E'SEC. DISSEM BY_PFH--_:--

"SON'UNIT NOTIFIED_

VANCE COPY

ISSUED/SLOTTED

ITION UNIT

RF . FILE

''''

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

SEC

ET

STAFF

FY

VR

WIN

AITION i

IN 944357

PAGE D3

TOR: 0822427 JUN 76

Nealen

teilerinien

apriational en formalien ma

5

SEC

RET

HH 53217 DocId:32396531 Page 9

---

## Page 10

EC DISSEM BY_

UNIT NOTIFIED=

rary

__PER_

TOTAL COPIES

S E

RUN

REPRODUCTION

BY OTHER

THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEO

STAFF

-.^1

RF .

FILE

VR

IN 944357

PAGE D4-04

TOR: 0822427 JUN 76

1H 53217 DocId:32396531 Page 10

---

