# docid-32335779

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90129-10170

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-1280-166

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53074 Date:

05-30-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/17/1964

'PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

MINUTEMEN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: - INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : LHM

y9:1

HH 53074

DocId: 32335779

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONYCENTIAL

•In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

200 Mercantile Continental Building

Dablas, Texas

75201

December 17, 1964

DECT, ASSTFIED BY SPEBT

ĐN 12/14 83 21,

RE:

"MINUT EMEN"

Detective LOYD MATHEWS, Paris, Texas Police Department,

advised on December 1l, 1964, that a LUTHER SOUTH, Commonly re-

ferred to as "Pop",

had baen employed by the National Guard armory,

Greenville,

Texas until about March, 1964. Due to the re-organiza

tion in the Guard by the

sOUrE had been transferred

to north fort Hood, Texas and could be located at

the first building

the left after you enter the North Fort Hood entrance on the high-

way coming from Gatesville, Texas to North Fort Hood.

MATHEWS advised

that SOUTH was a permanent employes of the

State of Texas

and was d

non-commissioned officer in charge of maintenance of the armory wher

soUTH is carrying on

he was in Greenville and he assumes thay stated that he was abde sto

same duties at North Fort Hood.

learn that SOTST had a brother who had beek, or fell is, withhe

949th Division of the National Guard at Dallas,

On December,

16, 1964 DL T-l advised that the "sour" he referred to previously

as

the contact of the "Minutemen" inla possible attempt in a raid on

a Northeast Texas ArmOry WaS NOLAN SOUTH.

SOUTH, whose original

home is near Cooper,

Texas presently works for a National Guard

Arnory in Dallas and 1s the brother-1p-law of GRADY Be TURPIN of

Texas.

DI T-1 advised

approximately 1129 Alston Avenue, Fort worthin the Fort Worth area

TURPIN is a member of the "Minuteman" Group

but is not one of the more active members.

DL T-1 advised that some

the members have recently obtained Smith and Wesson Victory Model

Thirty-eight special revolvers and these revolvers appear to be new.

Di T-I did not know the source of these revolvers.

On December 17, 1964 a check of current Dallas Telephone

Directory reflected that a NOLAN I. SOUTH resided at 7223 Lake June

Road •

On December 17, 1964 a check of the current Fort Worth

"Caty Directory relected that GRADY R. TURPIN, whose wife's name is

BUNICE I., resides at 1131 Alston Avenue,

Fort worth,

and is a

machine operator for the Contalner Corporation.

On December 17,

1964 operator

Fort Worth Retail Merchants Credit Association,

508 Comperce Street, Fort Worth, advised that GRADY B. TURPIN has

been in the credit bureau files since December 11, 1943.

Wishe W

his docident Bantam neither repriss

3006

those ost

-Samrat ton your

cont

wetstiondistributed outside.your

- 105-1280)

{1

- 134-338)

RL#/ gos

Farency.

(25)

Exclud

from automatic

downg

ling and

declassin

cation

sorch

-I erox Capy, NiS I, Dalla

3, 84169819

HH 53074 DocId:32335779 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONPANIAL

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL. BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

200 Mercantile Continental Building

Dallas, Texas 75201

December 17, 1964

DECLASETETED BY OPEST

ON 12 14 83

211,330

RE:

'"MINUT EMEN"

Iredes.

File:

Perch

Detective LorD Mara,

Paris, Texas Police Department

advised on December 1l, 1964, that a

LUTHER SOUTH,

, commonly re-

ferred to as "Pop"

Greenville, Texas until about March,

tion in the Guard by the State of Texas, SOUTH had been transferred

to North Fort Hood, Texas

and could be located at the first building

on the left after you enter

the North Fort Hood entrance on the high-

way coming fron Gatesville, Texas to North Fort Hood.

MATHEWS advised

that SOUTH was a permanent employee of the State of Texas and was a

non-commissioned officer in charge

of

maintenance of the armory when

he was in Greenville and he assumes that SoUTH is carrying

on the

same duties at North Fort Hood.

MATHEWS stated that he was

able to

learn that sottu had & brother who had beer,

or still is; with the

the National Guard at Dallas, texas.

On December

16, 1964 DL T-1 advised that the

"SOUTH" he referred to previously

as

the contact of the Minutemen" in a possible attempt in a raid on

a Northeast Texas Armory was NOLAN. SOUTH:

SOUTH, whose

e original

home is near Cooper, Texas presently works for a National Guara

Armory in Dallas and is the brother-in-law of GRADY E. TURPIN of

ap prosimate eins alston meansementer ment

DL T-1 advised

TURPIN is a member of the "Minutemen" Group in the Fort Worth

area

but is not one of the more active members.

Di T-l advised that some

of the members have recently obtained Smith and Wesson Victory Model

Thirty-eight special revolvers and these revolvers appear to be new.

Di T I did not know the source of these revolvers.

On December 17, 1964 a check of current Dallas Telephone

Directory reflected that

a NOLAN F. SOUTH resided at 7223 Lake June

On December 17,

1964 a check of the current Fort Worth

incy ulrectory relected

that GRADY R.

TURPIN,

whose wife's name is

EUNICE E.,

resides

at 1131 Alston Avenue, Fort Worth, and is a

machine operator for the Container Corporation.

On December 17;

1964 operator 3,

Fort Worth Retail Merchants Credit Association,

508 Comperce Street, Fort Worth,

advised that GRADY R.

TURPIN has

been in the credit bureau files

since December 11, 1943.

W0c

This documeltecontains neither ee Samendations nos

ENTIAL

250161205

105-1280)

05-1280

166

outside your

388)

GROUF

Exclud

Trom automatic

(25)

downgr

cing and

declassi

sation

13-41

HH 53074

DocId: 32335779

Page 3

---

## Page 4

COM

ENTIAL

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

200 Mercantile Coutinental Building

Dallas, Texas 75201

December 17, 1964

DECLASSIFTED BY SPEBTA CA

ON

121488

21,026

RIS:

"MINUT EMEN"

Detective LOYD MATHEWS, PariS, Texas Police Department,

to North Fort Hood, Texas and could be located at the first building

left after you

enter the North Fort Hood entrance on the high-

MATHEWS advised

non-commissioned officer in charge of maintenance of the armory when

he was In Greenville and he assues that soUl! is carrying

same duties at North Fort Hood.

MATHEWS stated that he was able to

learn that SoUTH had a brother who had been, or still 1s,

949th Division of the National Guard at Dallas, Texas.

On December

16, 1964 DL T-l advised that the "SOUTH" he referred

to previously

the contact of the "Minutemen" in a possible attempt in a raid on

a Northeast Texas Armory waS NOLAN SOUTH.

SOUTH, whose original

home is near Cooper, Texas presently works for a

National Guard

Armory in Dallas

and is the brother-in-law of GRADY B. TUBPIN of

approximately 1129 Alston Avenue, Fort Worth, Texas:

DL T-l advised

TURPIN Is a member of the "Minutemen" Group in the Fort Worth area

but is not one of the more active members:

oL T-1 advised that some

of the

nembers have recently obtained Smith and lesson Victory Model

Thirty eight special revolvers and these revolvers appear to

be new.

Di T-l did not know the source of these revolvers:

On December 17, 1964 & check of current Dallas Telephone

Directory reflected that a NOLAN F. SOUTH resided at 7223 Lake June

On December 17, 1964 & check of the current Fort Worth

"City rectory reflected that GRAPY R. TURPIN, whose wife's name 1s

EUNICE 1., resides at 1131 Alston Avenue, Fort Worth, and Is

machine operator for the Container Corporation.

On December 17

1964 operator 9, Fort Worth Batail Merchants Credit Association,

508 Comperce Street,

Fort Worth,

advised that GRADY R. TURPIN has

baen in the credit bureau files

since December Il, 1943.

Derbaltz

10391

8 = 30

105-1280 - 166

00 Cau

This dogumentan ten Cruther rag nostions

COX DENTAL

Onclus read

Astontois

tallas

Faile

afte

to your

agency..

It and

203*2280)

184-3382

GROUP

1

Exclude

contents

from

not to be distributed orti/ges

downstacing and

automatic

aSearch,

(25)

declassing

gation

HH 53074

DocId:32335779 Page

---

