# docid-32319369

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10369-10003

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-P8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: DELOACH

TO : MOHR

TITLE:

DATE: 02/05/1964

• PAGES: 169

SUBJECTS:

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD

VOLUME III

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

. Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/01/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC FOLDER, MEMO, ABSTRACTS, LHM, NOTES, TTY, LET, ARTICLE, SUMMARY, NEWS

ARTICLE

v9.1

DocId: 32319369

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination

L DATE: 11-14-2017

Records

Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote).

t. A. H. Belmont

Ms o

Sullivan

1

WE HARVIT OSUALO

19 - B- CURA

Janunry

30, 1064

Kr.

Belnott

Rogen

at •

Cal lahau

Mul1 avan

2313

Dres

Baung

кат" .

•D.

brennan

Purpose

of monorandun ia to explore allegation bee Harvey

Oswald uns IDl informant and related polats covered by President's

Comiasion last woek during appearance before Comission of Fenry Wade,

District Attorney of Dallas County, tenas, and to set torth purcuant to

Director's request (1) procedures no une la develomant and control o.

FBI Infomants, (2) the systen used in handiing interants in Spectal

Intelligence Service (SIS) progran, and

(3) dotails concorning #ado°s

518 service phile in the FBI.

Contrary to teatinny, lorld vas never Fal intormant, vas

nover padd money for laforuation and me never assigned any synbol

manber.

Procedares me we ia inforasat progen preclude the poseibility

of Ovald's connection oith FBI as an informant without knowledge 5t

seat of Government.

De closely supervine all

aspecte of laformnt progran.

offices cannot develop socurity informants eithout Bureau nuthorization,

which is based on enhaustive background investigatton to determine

rellability, trustworthiness and stability.

When vo do authorize, ve follou informat's developmont

through progross letters which field offices susalt at four month

Intervalo.

te approve use of symbole and code nanas, maintaia an 1ades

of these andanne may be used twiee by the sane flold office.

le suthorise payments on regular basis and maintain current

records of every expenditure nade shoutay to sten made and shy.

sic has only linited authority to mhe paynents vithout

Burenu authority in certain inatances and ve control shin by limiting

snount, and by and of sonta

accounting procedure which liste all such

payments, to son made, and for what purpose.

(9)

DocId: 32319369

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Menor andan

N. V. C. Sullivan

So 11.

Bezeout

AEL MANVES GORAND

A0S0200

ments to Cavald

Mine

any of our otticos even nado paymente to bim

mac"s authority,

the roceipte sed

vouchero

these vould have been shown da

submitted by

sach 011Ac0.

Thess

records have been ohcotes

and double checked and no such

peysens

ever made..

Symbol

Numbere

Koentassable

Had Onwald

i assigned

a synbol numer,

would be a natter of resord not only

by mumber but also by

he o matter of leot,

ns can

dontily every syabol

munbes bood, pest or present.

The number 179 supposedly

assigned Coweld is currently need by

the Bellas 01f1cc

tor o erininal informant,

Veins Ivonne Graham, & Mogre medan

who runs

of prostitutios.

New Cleans, where Cavale

і воле

the Busbor 179 was usce by the lea Calenne

olesce back

20

1913 to desigante an Interant, Joseph A.

Partslogo,

mao

waS

reporting security tacorantion and mo was

discontinued in 1041.

noted, once a nuncer ic

naed in ony capactty,

to dosignate a accurity on

ordainal Anfernant,

1t connot be used by the 110ld ortico egola.

Za Mex1oo,

to shieh

develd traveled just

prior to the assassl»

nation of

1808180z8

i Kennedy, our legal Astache there currently

3es a

security infornant 179 uno wns so denignated in 1960-

Ho 10

61.000

uno furnistos intorantion on the lionleng

Fuesian

Institute of Cultural Ischange

1a Morelas, Michoscan,

Hss:00.

Procedural Stops Hover. Talen

Jurchermore,

Osunid could not have been scoigned such

a symbol msber without a prior background investagation by any

field office considering bin for developnent.

Hod any 21cld

office constdored devoloping hin,

it would heve had to cotela

approval by the sol.

There fe no record of any nuch roquest

by ony Sola office

and no record of any such approval.

388-10003

DocId: 32319369

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

TO

OreNA. lO&M NO. 19

3010-108

MAY 10S2 SOITION

USA GEN. FIO. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum SECRET

W. C. Sullivan

FROM

W. A. Branigan

SUBJECT:

- Belmont

- Hohr

- DeLoach

1 - Callahan

DATE:

1-25-64

1 - Rosen

1

- Sullivan

- Malley

- Branigan

- Gheesling

Stokes

Toison

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

De Loach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holme's

Gandy

IBE HARVEY OSWALD

INDERNAL SECURITY - RUSSIA

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

This reviews an article concerning the assassination df

President Kennedy in the March,

1964, issue of "Saga" magazine by

neE Special Agent William W. Turner (E.O.D. 2-5-51 - Dismissed

7-19-61 ) who is presently appealing his dismissal before the Circuit

Court 12 the District.: Turner's self-centered, embittered, illogical

astitude is well know to us and his article is what we might expect

22on hin.

SUMMARY

should be laid

Turner attempts to argue that the blame for the assassination

to FBi bungling by way of not prewarning the Secret Service

of Oswald's potential as an assassin and that the cause of this was

lack of cooperation and communication between the Bureau and the

a.

Secret Service.

In the lead paragraph of the article, Turner claims

that he went to Dallas "just a few hours" after the assassination to

conduci & personal FBI-type inquiry as he sensed that "there were too

nady questions unanswered, too much information concealed."

This is

patently crystal-ball nonsense and at the outset shows his

motivation.

In light of his stated conviction that Oswald was indeed

the assassin and that he acted on his own without left wing,

right wing

or crime syndicate plotting, the article is particularly vicious in its

euggestion

chs deed.

that someone other than Oswald is basically to be blamed for

Jurner's case is pure sophistry the basic premises of which

are heroinafier reviewed point by point.

His argument consists of part

IocE, lnrgely inaccurate and irresponsible newspaper reports and

oucright falsehoods.

He endeavors to lend credence to his argument

by inading on his past experience as a Bureau Agent and it is in this

zeals that he clearly lies in discussing Bureau investigative techniques

He concludes his article with a four-point appeal to

*Îfecü that 1. Presidential appearances henceforth not be in open cars

and that the President be required to wear a bullet-proof vest when

appearine in public.

2.

made a Federal offense.

That an attempt on the President's life be

3.

not be publicized and 4.

That President's route in andout of city

That a permanent Federal Commission be

established to insure proper cooperation and communication between

agoncies such as Bureau and Secret Service and that the Commission be

swered to override the Bureau when necessary to guarantee proper

-02555

-/C: pab/pa

1000

82555-2006

DocT: 32319360

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandun to Mr. Sullivan

Re:

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

105-32555

SECRET

Statement:

Oswald prudently transferred his political activities to

New Orleans (date not indicated) as Dallas is a city that

leans to the right and because of local Dallas police

vigilance against communist-type activity.

Fact: Oswald left Dallas and traveled to New Orleans in late April,

1955, as he was out of work and at the urging of his wife due to

having attempted to assassinate General Walker on April 10,

1963. The inference that Oswald feared Dallas police vigilance

is nonsense for he returned to the Dallas area five months later

to live.

Statement: It is FBI responsibility to make dissemination to

Secret Service but there is historical evidence that proper

dissemination is not always made at the Washington level.

In support he cites that in 1945 the Royal Canadian

Mounted Police (RCMP) told the Bureau about Klaus Fuchs

Who they suspected was a soviet agent, however, the FBl

took no action:

He also cites: that in 1960 the FBI

collected damaging information about Bernon F. Mitchell

and Willian H. Martin, National Security Agency (NSA)

employees, and again failed to alert anyone after which

Witchell and Martin fled to Cuba thence to Russia where

they compromised U.S. secret codes throughout the world.

Fact: The nome of Fuchs and his British address came to attention of

after arrest of Israel Halperin in

February, 1946, as a

result of the disclosures of Igor Gouzenko, Soviet Code Clerk

who defected in Canada in 1945.

Halperin, a Canadian, was

named by Gouzenko as a member of a Soviet military intelligence

network in Canada.

Fuchs' name and his address in England were in

an address book and diary in Halperin's possession. The book

and diary were furnished to the Bureau on 3-12-46 and names and

addresses of Anericans appearing in the documents were furnished

to the field.

The documents were furnished by the Canadians to

the British and no action was taken by the Bureau with respect

to individuals living abroad. Fuchs first became an espionage

euspect in 1949 on the basis of Bureau Source 5 information (not S

to be disseminated).

We, however, advised the British and in

january, 1950,

Fuchs confessed in

England to his espionage

activities.

When Mitchell and Martin defected to the Soviets

in June, 1960, we had never conducted any investigation.of

them nor had we received any allegations concerning them.

-4 =

SECRET

DocId: 32319369 Page 5

---

