# docid-32334072

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/3/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90110-10065

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-3575-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO:

DOS

TITLE :

DATE: 08/29/1958

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH MEROLA

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE •

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32334072

10

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Li

Mr

jon

Corman

18303

Tos

Augist 20, 1908

2. E. foalin Balley

bireccor

01ftce of Semirity

Depaztront of State

Mashington, 0: 2.

1-11

Leons

Subjects

Mizactor

130A20C0PD

NEDERALZIY INTERS

REGISTRITICN ACT

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2/31/95 BY SPRAR

This sill confien inforestion

fumishes on August 23,

telephonically

10 50

Bally No

00 your

Departnents Ars Ao Neconaldo

Ghoster A.

Enovich, Marcau of

Cua6009 ,

Masoc

busier of Enocker Investigations,

* Forces

Mentorant Connorder Ve E

Senthalt,

Intolligenco,

Dopertacas ar

the Navy, and Fajor L.

rogers,

Assisabe Chick

Depurteent of

the

Lonejal

Acent Go Ke Aslt 0t this bureau.

MONS GIA BASO

c052120

Robort Fo

BY COURIER SVG.

• Special Agent

he at sanal doLorest to mada

Fords,

povisal

3PS3,

o siven his tragnestary

interatton consonato

pedition of people and aren

scarce a zovetitionary

strenot adghs be unde over the Labor Day

sdet end ornsometime:

Ke claknes trendy-

includine

Sept no lone in is ne note.

Tolson

Boardman .

Belmont

Mohr

Nease

Parsons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

Clayton

Tele. Room

Holloman .

Gandy -

1 - Havana

1 - Assistant Attorney General

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit

RWC: ers

649M 101958240

DocId: 32334072

Page 2

---

## Page 3

teleased under the

DATE: 11÷14-2017

Keroretty

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Note).

3 Tonlis Bailey

The doorse

do on agas

cho taniar business is Mont

en sho lan boon saying to total

maria% anar to to ban one got who is

rovoluticharies to fly arno to Miste

Who Vico-conoul ndvicel Ale once asted toy $10, 000

fer Intomation de find and cente obtate cenperning this matter.

The identity of sig poure is ontoura to this burces and

decordinety his rottolility is!

been

cited the substmee of the chove antonatiese.

vill be friehod ory asticienot partinese information receivalo

1 • Director

Central Intolligence Agingy

Attenadoos

Deputy Diesctor, Flabs

1 • Director

es Nayat Zacellizence

1 * 090500 93

Special Investisantons

Ala: Perco

1 » Ansistane Chio, d1 Coard for Intelligenco

1. • Bargat

setentions Chief, Be

curity Divletoo

Cas too

Service

197-3575-2

DocId: 32334072

Page 3

---

