# docid-32242749

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/1/201

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10067-10283

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 002603

Released under the John

f. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 0Sc 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 54653 Date:

10-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

WC

FROM:

WILLENS, HOWARD P.

TO :

RANKIN, J. LEE

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

02/26/1964

1

LANE, MARK

FBI, ADMINISTRATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST RE VIEW :

05/20/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

BOX 64. FOLDER TITLE:

v9.1

HH 54653

DocId: 32242749

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Jane;

February 26, 2904

MAJORATOR 10 NE. J. LEE RANCIN, deneral Countal

Rowera fo tillens

R31.0

ant long

Turing the course of my discussion this morning with

Ii. Malley of the FBI be brought in tha natter of your interest

in having coverege at the lectures given by hars Lane Dofore

various sectings.

dong tary hung that Nars Lane does sttond all meetinge

of oppressively 30 or 35 people which ane not publicly

announced. Ta these metings are not pillely aucounced

the rut connot dot octunt recriinge of tha prosentations

nade by li. Lane.

nose our discusnion tx. lolley agroad that he made

vito & letter to you sotting forth voat covoras the fuI cat

provida of Mart Lans's cctivities unier thoir curent proceduras.

At that point 12 tho Comlonion destres fullor covernge ve vill

have to nahe poss croitte regmot to that crfect to the pal.

I think that ve sill wont to connider vury cersrully the

problem tanoraut in remestlag fuller covester of It. Lam

watch night reguire placing him under full curveizlans by

the IBI. Such a procodure vould infon us as to his Location.

siro us som indication ol ell netings nich hs ettended, but

would atlll not enablo us to outsin recondings os mouledge of

the substance of ids presoutationa at the stinga which are

not open to ties gonerel public.:

NN 54653 DocId:32242749

Page 2

---

