# docid-32303023

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10283-10035

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2914-1ST NR 41

Heeabebrazier Rescude

CCE022 40 €84332

144 F20 2200 Babel.

Daege: 46252 Sabe:

-=-25-252-

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DOUCE, RICHARD GORDON

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/08/1958

PAGES:

64

SUBJECTS :

GM, PERSONAL HISTORY AND BKG, ASSOC, GAMBLING

ACT, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

• RESTRICTIONS: 2; 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF DOS

COMMENTS: RPT, INDEX PAGES 58-63

v9.1

NW 45852 DocId: 32303023

Page 1

---

## Page 2

RGD :

jab

(8)

CONFIDAITIAL

PG 92-228

92-236

"The remaining two stories of the building

are occupied by six

private families.

The rental income from this building is

180,000 drachmaes per year ($6,000).

The value of this building

is assessed at 1,8000,000 drachmaes ($60,000) -

reliable source, Director of the Greek Economic Committee,

has advised this office that the rental incomes and the values

of the above mentioned buildings are about one-half to two-third

Source further advised that the above information concern

Subject's financial status 1s classified as "Secret" by the

Greek law, and requests that sources of information remain

anonymous:

"STYLIANOS RACCUSSIS, #1 Frederikos Street, Piraeus, and

various policemen of the Ist Police Precinct of Pireaus were

interviewed regarding Subject's reputation. Sources advised

that Subject is the owner of varlous nightclubs and shops in thet

United States. It 1s said that Subject proposes to return to

Athens within the next year where he will retire with his family.

They described Subject as a good man;

and that he, his wife/ and

son enjoy a good reputation in the neighborhood; they are de

sound political views and never have given cause for complaint

Sources further stated that Subject's legal representative in

Greece is GEORGE LEMONIS; who ls residing in one of the

apartments in Subject's bullding located at #57 Sahtourt Street

Piraeus:

"The files of the Allens Directorate were reviewed and the

following information extracted:

'MINAS HAZIDAKIS, son of GEORGE and MARIS, born in 1900,

in Ventes, Karpathos, Arrived in Greece on July 14,

1947 with American passport No. 7893 1ssued in

Washington, D.C. Subject departed Greece on September

• 8,

1947. He returned to Greece on May 3, 1955, with

American passport No. 564143 1ssued on March 9, 1955,

in Washington. He departed from Greece on September

24,

1956.

- 9-

CONFIDKATIA!

NW 45852 DooId: 32303023 Page 2

---

## Page 3

RGD imz

(4)

CONFIDENTIAL

Po 92-228; 92-236

ALLEGED CONTROL OF NUMBERS AND HORSE BETTING

MORGANCOWN

W. VA.

Sheriff

CHARLES WHISTON, Monogalia County, Morgantown,

W. Va.,

who has been connected with law enforcement since World

Kensington, Fa, have never operated in the Norgantown area.

PROSDITUTES

TARENIUM; PA

NORMA GRILLO, an admitted prostitute, on May 5,

SA JONN S& PORIELLA that under no eircumstances woun

1958, advised

disclose the identity of the person or persons she allegedly

consulted who in tum discussed with GABRIEL MANNARINO

opening of a house of prostitution in Tarentum, Pa,

It is recalled that

in an interview with SA PORTELLA on March 25,

1958, GRILLO stated that through her "contacts" she had

discussed the opening of a house of prostitution and that

GABRIEL MANNARINO supposedly told her contacts that she could

go ahead with her plans as long as the house was not located

in New Kensington, Pa.

NARCOTICS AND JEWELRY

T-22 on April 10, 1958, stated that in conversation with

SAMUEL MANNARINO approximately two and one-half years ago

(I-22) happened to mention that it was becoming increasingly

difficult to make a living in gambling because of lay offs

at some of the industrial plants in

the area.

According to

T-22, MANNARINO then stated in all seriousness that 1-22 should

serious thought to smuggling cocaine into the U.s. from

Greece or uncut diamonds from Rotterdam, Holland.

T-22 went

to say

• that MANNARINO told him tha he should be able to make

such arrangements with the cousin of T-25, who at that time

was employed as a chief engineer for one of the major steamship

= 42 k

CONFIN

NTIA

NW

45952

DocTd:32303023

Page

3

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL A

RGD inz

(5)

PO 92223, 92-236

lines that called at Greek and Dutch ports.

1-22 pointed

out that NANNARINo urged him to make the necessary

arrangements and stated that 1f T-22 was successful he

(MANNARINO) had a contact who could set rid of all the

uncut diamonds or cocaine I-22 could supply.

1-22

said that naturally he did not make any such

arrangements with the cousin of 1-25 not only from the

standpoint of the serious penalties connected with narcotics

smuggling but

also because he knew the cousin' of I-25, an

honest young man who would never go for such a proposition.

E:

LEG LEIMATE ENTERPRISES

NATIONAL FILBEN CORPORATION

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

It is recalled that records of the look County Recorders

offices Chicago, Illinois.

Jr. on January 24, 1958, identified B. B. DAVIDSON of

1950, tendie

reviewed by SA RALeR Mus

Chicago, Ill., as a former officer in National Filben when

the corporation was chartered in March, 1947.

The records of the office of the Massachusetts Commissioner

of probation, Suffolk County Court House, Boston, Mass., a

central repository for all eriminal conviction records

in the

Commonwealth of Massachusetts, contain no record for an

IndIVidual identifiable with BERTRAM B. DAVIDSON, Sr. (Date

of Birth December 22, 19070

JAMES GIBBONS, Assistant Clerk, Suffolk Superior Court,

located a record of the indictment of BERTRAM Ba DAVIDSON by

DAVIDSON was arrested in

Chicago, Il1. October 21, 1946,

Boston Police officer

JOSEPH CROWLEY, Division 2, went to Chicago to bring him back,

but extradition was denied,

Case wasthanded before Grand Jury

by Assistant District Attorney FRANCIS J. HICKEY.

on April 30,

1947, Judge

BROGNA placed ease on file until arrest of defendant.

CONFIDE

- 43 -

NW 45852

DocId: 32303023

Page 4

---

## Page 5

RGD imz

(20)

PO 92-228, 92-236

CONFIDIAL.

0. TRAVEL

(Gabriel Mannarino)

HERVAN SLAT, 8911 Dickens Avenue, Surfside,

on-

May 12, 1958, advised SA ROBERT K. LEWIS that the ANATO

fanily

that had been occupying the HANNARINO home at

3919 Dickens Avenue returned to their home in Pittsburgh

around 10 days ago, stating that they expected to return

around Christmas

MANNARINO as an

STATE identified a photograph of GABRIEL

individual he belleved visited

the residence

at 8919 Dickens

Avenue on one occasion during

the past

winter.

daily spot

Surfside, Fla., without developing any information

concerning the whereabouts of GABRIEL MANNARINO:

1-27,

who has furnished reliable information in the past,

on April 18, 1958, stated that he last saw CABRIEL MANNARINO

approximately two years ago in Florida and has no information

regarding his present location.

1-27 pointed out that he

is not acquainted with GABRIEL MANNARINO personally.

MICHAEL, GIORANO, FBI #2176338,

Niami, Pla., on May 9, 1958,

advised SA Go GRAHAM HURST that he is well acquainted with

SAM MANNARINO but is only casually acquainted with GABRIBL

HANNARINO and is not aware of his present location.

GIORANO

declired to furnish any additional information regarding the

MANNARING brothers and was arrested on Nay 12, 1958, by agents

of the Mamt Office in connection with an Interstate Transportation

of Stolen Property matter.

1-22 on April

28, 1958, stated that LOUIE CATORIS, owner of

the.

Catorio Candy Company in New Kensington, Pari

told him

on the morning of April 28, 1958, that on the afternoon of

April 22 or April 24, 1958,

he mailed a box of GABRIEL

MANNARINO's favorite candy to the MANNARINO home in Surfside,

Pla.

0-22 did not consider it advisable to press CAVORIS for

additional information at the risk of arousing his suspicions.

45852 DocId: 32303023

CONFIDENTIAL:

Fage

- 48-

---

## Page 6

RGDEmz

(17)

ĐG 92-228, 92-236

CONFIDEXTIAL

INFORMANES

1-1 is NY 204-S contacted by SAS PAUL 0. DURKIN and PHONAS J.

EMBEY .

JFK Law 11(a)

1-2 1s V. 3. Individual income tax returns filed by

for the years

tumished to the Bureau by the internal Revenue Service,

washington, D. C., around June 25, 1958.

T-3 1s the report of

security Orficer bouts, No MARRANO;

Division of

Security, Department of State, American Embassy,

Athens, Greece, dated May 21, 1958, Athens,

0-4 1s

PcI, contacted by SA RICHARD GORDON DeUCE.

1-5 10 DE MALCOLM ANDERSON, Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division,

: U. S. Department of Justlee

memorandur to Directors

FBi dated May 16, 1950);

•JEK Act 6 (4)

T-O IS DE 370-0 contacted by, SA PALMER M. WEE.

T/ 10 ROBERT STACK, Manager, Bell Telephone Company

Business Oitice, New Kensington, Pax, contacted by SAS DAMON Wa

PITCHER and RICHARD CORDON DOUCE:

1-8 1S HAROLD ALSTON,

menager, Northwest Telephone Company,

East Troy, Wisconsin, contacted by SA HAROLD Es DUNGAN.

T- and 1-10 are JOHN MADDEN and MARION NUTH, respectively;

both clerical employees of the U. S. Post Office, East Troy,

Wisconsin, contacted by SA DUNCAN:

T-11 1S CHARLES P

NAIER, Village President and President

of the State Bank,

East

Troy, Wisconsin, contacted by SA DUNCAN.

1-12 1s VRa

NARD PORCE, Public Relations: Director, Southern

Nevada. Telephone company, contacted by unidentified special

agent, date of contact uninown.

STATE DEP INFO A 7-3

IS UN CLASSIFIED PER "HEIR

18/19 196 ETR.

CONFIRENTIAL

NW 45852 DocId: 32303023

Page 6

= 55 -

---

## Page 7

(18)

PO 92-228; 92-236

CONFIDENTIAL

T-13 IS THERESA DOUCHERTY, Bell Telephone Company of

Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., contacted by SE Ea DAVIS

PORTER.

T-14 L6 MARY LAWION, Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph

Company

Miami, Fla., contacted by SA ROBERT Ba SUNKEL.

I-15 Is EDWARD L. BRAUNE, New York City Telephone Company,

contacted by SA FRANCIS X, KANE, JI.

0-16 is CSWP-28 contacted by unidentifled agent of the

Washington Field office.

1-4/ is records subpensatrom the belt telephone company;

kensington, fa

by the Senate Select Committee on

Improper

reape to telepho

in the Labor Or Management Field

telephone calls entnating from GABRIEL MANNARINO's

in New Kensington for period May 28, 1957 - November 28,

19575

Material furnished to Bureau around May 7, 1958.

1-13 1s vEx-46 contacted by Legal Attaché, Mexico City,

date

of contact unknown] (flu)

1-19 1s HAV-31 contacted by begal Attache, Havana:

0-20 is Legal Attache, Havana,

JEK Act 6 (4)

1-21

PCI, contacted by SA NORMAN T. CHOMPSON.

CI, contacted by SA TOHNS

PORTELIA. (Additional

T symbol assigned

o: further protect

D-23 is PG 509-0 contacted by SA JOHN S, PORTELLA

0-24 1s U. 3. Attorney HUBERT I. JETTELBAUM, Western District

o1 Pennsvivanie memorandum to the Pittsburgh orfice dated

June 13. 1958).

- 56 -*

CONFION TINY

NW 45852 DocId: 32303023

Page 7

---

## Page 8

JFK Act 6 (4)

RGD 12

(19)

CONHORNIA

0-25 1s

roommate of PCI

Symbol assigned to further protect

1-26 1s WILLIAM ADAMS,

owner,

Adams Music Company,

New. Kensington,

Pa:, contacted by SAS DOUCE and FORSYTH.

1-27 1s MM 501-C contacted by SAS C. GRAHAM HURST and

ROBERT K, LEWIS.

and RICHARD GORDON DOUCE.

Mi and;

7-30 1S HARRY

ZINMERMAN, mailman, U. S. Post Office,

who delivers daily to homes on Dickens Avenue, Surfside,

Pla. contacted by SA LEWIS:

Te3i, 1s Mrs. D. J. BROWN, Day Manager, Garden of Allah

Motel,

Mtami Beach, Fla,, contacted by SA ELVER F, EVRICH.

0-32 1s PG 545-0 contacted by SA DOUCE

1-33 18

PCI, contacted by SA DOUCE:

CRIVINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

PG: 545-C

Do 5610

PCI

57. •

CONFIDSTIAS

NS 45852

DocId: 32303023 Page 8

---

## Page 9

: 92-228

92-236

CUNFIDENTIAL

INDEX

Hacienda Hotel-e.

HARPER, LoBo, MRo

HARZIPAHOULIS, Q.--*

HAWK, CLYDE----

Hayes Bar-cer

HAZ IDAKIS,

GEORGE-

HAZIDAKIS A

KALIOPI-

HAZEDAKIS, MARIA-*

HAZIDAKIS, MIKE GEORGE-

HAZIDANISA

MINAS-

HICKEY, FRANCIS J

Holiday House--

HORNSIETN JOB, INC

Hotel Tarte

LABURGLAD

BENJAMIN.

INBURG LA

INBURGIA.

CHARLES

IMBURGIA, MIKE-*-

Integrity: Club

Italian Club--

Italtan Gambling Syndicate

Jennings Slot Machine: Company

JEROME, NICK--

INU,

"JOB"--

JOKIND ANNA NAE-

Jones Brewing Company-

KARAISKOS. DION--

KARAVEVAS, HAR.-

KATOGIRITON, KALIOPI--

Ken Iron and Steel Company

KERFIGAN, JOSEPH--

KIRTAKOPOULOS, PAR.

KLAPPER, BERT, INC.

KOLTAXIS, TH. -

LALEMBOUKOWRIS, ANTON.

STATE DEPT. INFO (NAMES FROM

INDEX

FES 8,9, 10) IS UNCLASSIFIED ON

JEK Law 11(a)

age

-22

-14,15

-50

8

436

00 NOT

13

-43,44

8

8

CONFIDDITIAL

NW 45852

DocId: 32303023

Page 9

---

