# docid-32300143

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10226-10423

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

63-7985-1ST NR 125

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, CG

TITLE :

DATE: 09/25/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ISW, JHO, CWB, RECORDS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS : REFERRED TO DOJ, INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32300143

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 Use

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hote) .

0/22/00

23%

ADRIE

63-7985

571106

CLEGACO

D1200

J023 DIES XIA

Colters 0. Brau

SASSELLALOUS • SCENARIES COn

CASCOTIEDIG ANO BEATS SECTORD

(00:00)

Enclosed hossuith for onch elsico are coplos ol a

pols orpinatory pesosaman Coted 0/25/02%

Assletant ACtorasy Conorst, Crininal Eiviotot.

We Crteinol Diviston too adrised thae Chane soconde ano

boing fomariod to tas ans. Chicago, eltoatioas

Can 1200d Bo Dous

ond 8hat a copy of the enslosad anausandm alll bo place ta Cio

carton demanding tince zacoats,

chiege Ostied for all intorntion portescoe

dasce socords stonid to revierad by tar

gation as coil as the salesod cope captloses bama none 10A:

00:01200g

cene andess done mous doees.*

00:eh1c0p0, Eulate

067960, C9 A41e 62-0030. Mosmito of 200i00 o8 ebore seconda

as miatod te thoso cocos should 02

220 1010305OR 1010108.

neported la tho case to uhiet .:

sentatance

JG is Salt that discs socords Boy be 02

may le abio

tho Entortene nich Ghazion V. Lug and Skat wisas

Bo march bis maurition those seconds

concorning

in Chaco

until further alico

Tosasas should bo rotaiod by the Cliongo passco

thoke nit inato

is recoived Bee Sho Crtotual Pivision an

Enclosuros

i + Planet

402(070)

Anelecuro (Into)

- 63-7985

Janes Riddle Foila; Irvin S.

Welner)

NOTE: On 9/24/63 Department Attorney Robert D. Peloqui

€ 4. COT 151033

285

advised SA Wayne A. Frankenfield he would have thege

records sent to our Chicago Office within near future:

DUPLICATE YELLO

DocId: 32300143

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the dom f. Kemedy assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (as use Zuy lote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SEP 2 $ 1563

Director

Federal. Bureau of Investigation

Herbert J. Miller, Jr.

Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;

CHARLES W. BRAX;

Central Casualty Company;

Homer Bray Services, Inc.

Miscellaneous - Information Concerning

On September i1, 1963 Attorneys Robert D. Peloquin

and Edward F. Harrington obtained various records of Homer

Bray Services, Ita, of Canada, Jonsphillips, Ltd. of Canada,

and Intercontinental Surety and Casualty Company of Panama,

The records were received fron John Ruddy, Town Court,

Apartment 65, lassau, Bahamas.

Mr. Ruady informed that he

was holding the records for Charles Bray but did not desire

to give the records to Brey in that he knew the Federal

Government would be interested

in then.

Charles Bray had

previously given consent to Messre. Peloquin and Harrington

to obtain said recordo.

I intend to forward the records

to the Chicego office of

your Bureau

in that they may be

of use to your Agents in

future interviews of Cherles Bray

and in any analysis concerning captioned matters.

163-7985

NOT RECORDED

149 SEP. 26 1965

ARTETNAL PILE TO

DocId: 32300143

Page 3

---

