# docid-32323217

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90011-10055

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

121-39985-22

Released under the John

. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 54027 Date:

08-29-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/04/1965

5

EDWARD K. MOSS

EDWARD KIPER MOSS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT;

Mitten.

w9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32323217

Page 1

---

## Page 2

#0+381908-8492094)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

OSCLASSIRES MOM ANO/OR

RALCASE OF CA INFORMATION

THIS DOCUMENT KP 1-15-48

Transmil the following in

AIRTAL

Via

FBI

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: SAC, WTO (121-25750) (RivE)

EDWARD EIPER GOSS

OEO

SGE:

H. Ms.

Tillena

Balmint

Dale: 6/4/65

SHUSIAST

FERE

(d'riorily)

raTI

5. 3-1210:

BARFEB 0, 1958

ANo.

A: 4451

ReBulet 5/21/65:

BY: B0G

Enclosed herewith are six copies of an Lil relating

to the captionod ladividual.

ReBulot page 3,

SA THEODORE N.

Paragraph 2, rolers to the report of

GOBLE dated 3/11/58, at Washington, D.C.,

(VDC) ,

captioned "HALTER MICHAEL FITZHAUNICE,

waS, REGISTRATION-ACT",

and notes on Pigo 4 that EDNARD MOSS, 1025

Connecticut Avenue,

WDC, contacted FITZNAURICE In October, 1957.

RoBulet Pago 3, Paragrayb

refers to report a

SA GERARD C. CARROLL dated 6/27/58,

LUNA VALENCIA, REGISTRATION ACT", and notes on Pago 2 the

report sets forth information concerning an attempted

contact

by EDHARD MOSS, 1025 Connecticut Avenue, IDC, with VALENCIA.

WO was requested to report the association by MOSS

With FITZMAURICE and VALENCIA 2$

soted, and to characterize

those individuals.

A AVION OI WTO SILOS PEL LINAMAURICE and VALENCIA

ilsclosed Investigation In both

predicatod upon satormation durninhed by GEORGE PLABODY

REC 4/ 14-39885.

Reex

ARN :443

(2)!

Ai: AIRTEL

881 JUL 23 1965

101 30685

22

Sont

M

Per .

027

Approved;

ISh Spect

DocTA: 32323217

Page

Agont in Chargo

---

## Page 3

WFO 121-25750

As 20 subversive activities agalast the united

States were disclosed on the part of either FITZHAURICE

or VALENCIA during the investigation of those individuals,

pertinent

any ways In addition, it is noted the only contactly HOSS

aith either FITZMAURICE Or VALENCIA WaS RE the BpOOLI1ON

DEUEST GEORGE PEABODY, the complainant, in an effort

by PEABODY ,to determine.

the position and' status of FITZ™

MAURICE and VALENCIA, fof the reasons'

mentioned above,

My Ses

Information relating to the contact by HOSS with FITZMAURICE

and VALENCIA has not been included 1n the Lil enclosed.

980.724

It ia surches noted rebulot requests iro to s 124

roport the results or a check of ONI records. The 11les Mast

of ONI were checked on HOSS during the 1952 Loyalty of.

Goverament Employees Investigation and found to contain

no record of him.

As the SE 85 submitted in connection

with his current employment shows no naval servico sub-

sequent to 1946, a rocheck of ONI records was not requested.

"'-

The source referred to in the Lill enclosed, 18

WF 1086-C, whose idontity is known to the Buroau,.

Inforc

mation attributed to that source is contained in

111@ 137-8.

Tho Lilbas been classifled "Secret" as 1t

Includes Information from WFO report dated 10/30/52,

entitled "UNKNOWN SUBJECT, Aviation Week Ianues of

ESPIONAGE = X," so classifled.

Further,

the ta includes intormation setecting aa investigativa

Interest in diplomatio personnel.

SAT

1553

39985

12,2 40

NW 54027

DooId: 32323217

Page 3

---

