# docid-32329147

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90085-10028

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 92-3149-19

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 12/04/1958

PAGES:

. 3

SUBJECTS :

ALBERT MEADOWS

ANGELO THOMAS CASTEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

V9.1

DocId: 32329147

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under they John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL: 92-40

whatsoever.

MEADOWS advised he was a gambler and would not

attempt to get mixed up in prostitution in any way.

AT ARLINGTON, TEXAS

The following Investigation was conducted by SA

JOSEPH L. SCHOTT:

on Highway 157 near Arlington.

CRIBBS stated he did not know

CASTEN and could not say whether or not WOODS had ever been

Involved with the subject in gambling or prostitution activities.

On October 2, 1958, BOB WOODS; owner,

Highway 157, advised that he

The Dog Kennel,

did not know CASTEN and had never

been involved in any prostitution activities. WOODS stated

that he made his living mainly by gambling.

AT FORT WORTH; TEXAS

CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES

The following investigation was conducted by SA

JOSEPH L. SCHOTT:

On October 21, 1958, OLIVER BALL, Sergeant, Vice

Fort Worth Police Department, advised that he

had talked

Secently wIth MARIE THOMPSON, the operator of the stay frim

Studio on the Jacksboro Highway near Fort Worth,

Texas. BALL

stated that he had checked this files and could find no record

of her ever having been arrested by his department.

BALL stated

he had questioned her regarding CASTEN's alleged interest in

her establishment and she had denied that he was involved in any

way with the operations of the Stay Trim Studio.

LEGITIMATE INTERPRISES

The following investigation was conducted by SA

ROBERT M. BARRETT:

On November 3, 1958, Dallas I-1, who has furnished

reliable information in

the

past, advised

that CASTEN has

borrowed $900 from Dallas T-l and $900 from NICK CASCIO ir

the building of his motel on the Jacksboro Highway.

-C-

- 2 -

DocId: 32329147 Page 2

---

