# docid-32294559

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10213-10335

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-2173-67

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TO: LEG. CAR

TITLE:

DATE: 10/29/1976

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

CUBANA AIRLINES, RMN, TEST, OBA, CONVICTION, CONTACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

05/11/1998

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 45701 DocId: 32294559 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PAGE TWO

CONF 1

RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE WAS FIRST OPERATED AS A

SOURCE OF INFORMATION BY THE MIAMI OFFICE IN DECEMBER, 1960.

HE WAS DISCONTINUED IN JANUARY, 1961, WHEN HE MOVED FROM THE

MIAMI AREA. THEREAFTER, CONTACT WITH MORALES WAS ON AN

INTERMITTENT BASIS FROM 1960 THROUGH 1968• IN NOVEMBER, 1968,

HE TESTIFIED IN AN OPEN COURT AGAINST ORLANDO BOSCH, WHICH-

TESTIMONY EXPOSED MORALES AS AN FBI INFORMANT AND RESULTED

IN BOSCH'S CONVICTION. MORALES WAS OPERATED AS A SOURCE OF

INFORMATION BY MIAMI FROM NOVEMBER, 1968, UNTIL AUGUST,

1975, WHEN HE LEFT THE U. S. FOR VENEZUELA.

WAS OPENED AS A POTENTIAL

SECURITY INFORMANT OF THE CLEVELAND OFFICE IN OCTOBER, 1961.

THIS CASE WAS CLOSED IN JANUARY, 1962.

WAS CONTACTED

BY THE CLEVELAND OFFICE ON THREE OCCASIONS THEREAFTER AT HIS

REQUEST. HE WAS LAST CONTACTED IN NOVEMBER, 1962.

FBI FILES REFLECT NO ONE IDENTIFIABLE WITH

GOLFREDO RAFAEL MASINI PEREZ, AKA GODOFREDO MASSINI PEREZ.

OTHER 4

CALLAT

NW 45701 DocId: 32294559 Page 2

---

