# docid-32308627

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Recurus Collection Act of 1992 (11 U5C 2107 10t6)-

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10294-10485

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-592

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/19/1962

SGI, ASSOC, CRIM ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1 .

DocId: 32308627 Page 1

226

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Hot of

1992 744 050

DATE: 11-14-2017

ERAL BUREAU OF INVESTGATION

k: U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JAN 19 1962

TELETYPE

Tote) :

ViE.

Tolson

Vir. Belmont

Mr. Mohr-

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Conrad.

Mr. DeLoache

MI. Evan

Mr. Maline.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter-

Tele. Boom

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATEY-20-94

DEFERRED

1-19-62

8-45 PM JEG

TO DIRECTOR FBI

FROM SAC CHICAGO

92-3171

SAMUEL M

GIANCANA, AKAO, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH

C ADVISED

RECENTLY OF ONE JIMMIE CONTURSI WHO IS A NEW ASSOCIATE OF

GIANCANA. CONTURSI DESCRIBED AS TOUGH GUNMAN WHO HAS PART OF BOOKING

OPERATIONS ON SOUTH SIDE OF CHICAGO. HE REPORTEDLY HAS BEEN ASSOCIATED

WITH BOOKMAKING ALL ADULT LIFE AND IN PAST ACTED AS FENCE FOR QUOTE

HOT UNQUOTE DIAMONDS, WAS SUSPECT SEVERAL YEARS AGO IN BURGLARY OF

CACCIATORE CURRENCY EXCHANGE WHERE DEPOSIT BOXES BURGLARIZED AND HUGE: :

SUMS OF MONEY STOLEN. CONTURSI DESCRIBED AS GOOD FRIEND OF SAM GIANCANA.

GIANCANA IS APPEARNTLY STILL OUT OF TOWN. NO INFO RECEIVED

FROM CG SIX FOUR EIGHT SIX DASH C ASTERISK THIS DATE. MIAMI

HAS BEEN.

ALERTED FOR POSSIBILITY OF GIANCANA-S PRESENCE.

ARMED AND DANGEROES

ACK AHD HOLD PLS

10 JAN 22 1962

* 948 PM OK FBI WA RAM

57 JAN 26 1962 EX 104.

277

(л)

DocId: 32308627 Page 2

---

