# docid-32170687

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

124-10172-10006

105-82555-2ND NR 4661

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

LEGAT, LONDON

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 08/17/1964

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/25/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INCLUDES MEMO FROM LEGAT, LONDON

v9.1

DocId: 32170687

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DATE

•TO

OMFROM

SUBJECT:

LL

INFORIATION CON

IS UNCLASSIFIE

SEPT

WHERE SHOWM

HERWISE

riter the ToT

Kennery

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-108-03

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOV

NT

Memorandum

Director, FBI

(100-409763)

DATE:

8/17/64

Legat, London

(100-3247)

(P)

MARK LANE

SM - C

Confidential

Lee Oswald

Re London letter 6/30/64.

By letter dated 8/5/64 the Danish Security

Service (DSS) furnished information set out in enclosed

LEM.

I-I in the enclosure is the DSS.

The LHM is

classified CONFIDENTIAL in

accordance with the desires

of the DSS

100).

ENCLOSURE

destroyer)

APPRO

ACENCIES

19S

Bureau (Enc.

- Liaison

(Enc. 1) (sent direct)

1-

London

JTM: VW

(5)

NOTT

6 Xeras of reunite

made.

ORIGINAL, FILET

G/ilet FCS, pali

27.9803 1sopisк

7 Dallo.

1, Ec

1C6

REG 3A

/ENCLOSUR

CLASSIFIED &Y

EXEMPT FROM C

DATE OF DECLAS

1/14/57

O8 SEP 3-

1964 A

1105-8.2555

NOT RECORDED

199 SEP 2 1964

CATEGORY

CATION INDEFINITE TO

Confidential

DocId: 32170687 Page 2

14AUG 20-1564

SUBVe

2ND NR 4661

---

## Page 3

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC, 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNIT

STATES DEPARTMENT OF MANCE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

Class. by 1565. S0P/AHR

s idential

MARK LANE entered

Denmark April 9, 1964, from Rome

stayed 'at the Hotel Royal in Copenhagen on April 9 to

10, 1964. On April 16, 1964 he reentered Denmark from

* THOM

CLASSIFIED

HERE SHOWM

London, England, and he

stayed at the Hotel Viking,

Copenhagen, April 16 and 17, 1964 and at the Hotel

Skovrid-

erkroen on

April, 17 and 18, 1964.(C)

On April 10; 1964 LANE delivered a lecture to the

"Students' Union"

in Copenhagen concerning the assassination

of President Kennedy®

a known Danish Communist, JORGEN THEILGAARD JACOBSEN, a

In this regard, I-l advised that Didnt

born April 11, 1919, took the initiative in forming

Danish committee for the main purpose of obtaining informa-

tion on the continued investigations into the assassination HunGar

Further,

this committee intends to have translated and

published a book which LANE is writing on LEE

HARVEY OSWALD'S

part or innocence in the murder. (C)

JACOBSEN and LANE became acquainted sometime ago when

attending the Congress of the "International Association

of Democratic Lawyers" in Budapest and they intend to con-

tinue the contact

as MARK LANE will supply the Danish Com-

mittee with all new material on the assassination. (C

While in Denmark, MARK LANE was interviewed on April

1964,

for eight minutes by the Danish State Television

Service. (C

the middle of May,

T-l received information that

MARK

LANd intended to visit Denmark again and during the

aftercoon of May 25, 1964, in Copenhagen he delivered a

lecture at a meeting organized by the "Lawyers' Debating

The evening of May 25, 1964, in Aarhus, Denmark,

LANE delivered a lecture to a

meeting organized by the

"students' Association' and the dally paper "Denokraten". (C)

deClassica

CONFIDENTIAL

Rewitthal

confidentia

ENCLOSURE

ROUI

Exclude

Gatomatic

CONFIDENTIAL

klassific

-ENCLOSURE

100-1/0913

2N0 NR/4661 end

DocId: 32170687 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

EATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

T-I advises that these lectures were similar to

his previous ones in that LANE gave an account of his

inquiries since the assassination in November and showed

why in his opinion OSWALD cannot have been the assassin.

LANE also stated during the lectures that he had

visited Dallas, Texas five times; that he wasuunder sur-

veillance by the F.B.I. , which tapped his telephones,

and that he was happy to have the opportunity of pleading

the cause in Europe, as he had gained the impression that

this was being reported by the Press in the United States.(©

LANE's comprehensive material on the assassination

reportedly has been placed at the disposal of the Danish

"Mark Lane Committee" for the purpose of early publication.

T-I advised that "Who Killed Kennedy Committees"

have been

established on LANE's initiative in Copenhagen,

Paris and

London, all with prominent personalities as

members. (C

According

to

r-1, LANE returned to the United states

on July 1, 1964. (C)

The domacht contins neither..

the 75t

she Pit and is lecued to your agency;

in and its croads:

rat to.

set outer beach tara

CONFIDENTIAL

-2-

105-820J5- 2NO N12 *661

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32170687

Page 4

---

