# docid-32404428

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-10331-10299

RECORD SERIES : JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Collection

• Act of

1992

{44 USC 2107 Note) .

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

FROM

: ASST. GENERAL COUNSEL

TO : MEMO FOR THE RECORD

06-24-2017

TITLE

: MEMO: ALLEN V DOD, PHONE CALLS WITH JIM LESAR RE

INDICES

DATE: 11/05/1993

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION

DCI MINUTES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 04/30/03

COMMENTS : JEK-M-16 : E2 : 2000.02.11.07:44:03: 890054

[R] - ITEM

• IS

RESTRICTED

104-10331-10299

HH 53217 DocId: 32404428

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OGC 93-53524

5 November 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Allen v. DOD, Phone Calls with Jim Lesar re Indices

1. Yesterday, Jim Lesar called me after 5:00 p.m. He asked

me:

a. Whether CIA, at the time it transferred documents

to NARA under the JFK Act, had given NARA an index of those

documents on disks. If CIA had, Mr. Lesar would like in

copies.

b.

Whether there is an index to the sequestered

collection. Mr. Lesar said he recalled CIA stating in some

pleading that it had an index to the collection. If there

was such

an index, Mr. Lesar would like a copy.

c. What the status was for the processing of the

minutes of the DCI Morning Meetings.

he sought have sought a court deadline.

2.

I told Mr. Lesar I would check on the first two

questions

and that the minutes of the DCI Morning Meetings were

with the HRG to process. I further stated that he should not

complain about not yet

receiving the minutes of the DCI Morning

Meetings because he was receiving copies of main body of JFK

material that was being processed first.

I told Mr. Lesar I

would leave a message on his answering machine the next day after

I checked into his first two questions regarding indices.

I then

called Rich Brown of DOJ and related the above conversation.

3.

Today, I called John Pereira (C/HRG) and we discussed

Mr. Lesar's questions.

I then left a message on Mr. Lesar's

answering machine to the following effect:

a. CIA had not provided NARA with any disks containing

an index to the assassination records that were transferred.

However, it would provide disks at some point and I thought

CIA would probably be able to provide him copies; depending

on how onerous it would be to make copies.

b. The HRG did not recall finding an index to the

sequestered collection, but that if Mr. Lesar would cite me

to the pleading in which CIA represented to have an index I

would try to search for one.

1N 33211 Do010:32404428 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SUBJECT: Allen v. DOD, Phone Calls with Jim Lesar re Indices

c. That the minutes of the DCI Morning Meetings would

be processed upon completion of the processing of the

sequestered collection and that I did not have an estimate

of when this would be done.

Robert J. Eatinger,

Assistant General Counsel

Litigation Division, OGC

2

53217

DooId: 32404428

Paue

---

## Page 4

DCI/OGC/LD RJE:ig 76105/5 Nov 1993

OGC-93-53524

Distribution:

. - John Pereira i

1

- Jack Wright

- Lit file

1

- RJE Soft file

-RJE Signer

- OGC Chrono

53217

DocId: 32404428

Page

---

