# docid-32301561

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10278-10396

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-77

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/26/1963

*PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, ACA, MEMBERS, AIRPLANE, BOAT, RAID, CUBA, MIL

ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

NH 45881

DocId: 32301561 Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

F.

(Rev. 12-13-56)

Mr. T-lean.

USCS

FBI

REVIEWED BY PENJFK JARK FORDE

CH

7123/50 DAR

Date:

12/26/63

Transmit the following in

P.C. CASE IN FULL

AIRTEL

Via

RELEASE I PART

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

TOTAL DEN

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

wer

1?: im

.. •1i1es

Nies Cardy

=--==

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-2855) (P)

REG

SUBJECT:

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

"IS - CUBA

6. 94) Else

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

NM

HEREIN, IS UNCLASSIFIEL

DATE 1848l12)2

ne Miami airte to Bureau, 12/19/63, and Miami

teletype to Bureau, 12/24/63.

Enclosed are twelve copies of a LHM, dated and

captioned as above.

Copies of this LHM are being furnished locally

to INS, State Department, Border Patrol, Customs (local

and regional), Coast Guard, G-2, ONI, OSI, CIA, and FAA,

The Miami Office has also been in frequent

contact with Mr. GREGG BENTLEY, Special Branch, Bahamian

Nassau, with regard to

• all pertinent developments.

On 12/24/63, Mr. BENTLEY flew to Miami for a conference

official in Bimini to work directly with Mr. BENTLEY on the

scheduled date of this operation.

Ate- 39

97-447

Mr. FICKIE has also

advised.

that U. S. 'Custons

has three boats which will be used to intercept this

operation and to prevent the boat from successfully leaving

the Miami waters.

3. - Bureau (Enc. 12) (AM) (RM)

- Miami

feaguly

Copy to: CIA/SidoritAt

FAA Coast Head

ONI/OSI/ACSI

mine, conducto, cuban affi

Date ing 4/os to M/Sl.

for review at,

HSCAPPION

vaguest

(See ButhoW2-u7906

M

Per

gent in Charge

NW 45881 DocId: 32301561 Page 2

---

## Page 3

• F.

(Nov. 12-13-56) REVIEWED.OV-EBUJFK TASK FORGE

ON™

Mr. Tolson

Palmont.

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

•: TOTAL DENIAL

Transmit the following in

FBI

Date:

12/26/63

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

"i?r

Trl:. Room

Man limes-

Miss Gandy.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

Wor

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-2855) (P)

SUBJECT:

MOV INTENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

6-1-940 01

454

IS - CUBA

494296

JFI

NM

ALL INFORMATIÓN CONTAINER

HEREIN, IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1/4812% 80/k

Re Miami airtel to Bureau, 12/19/63, and Miami

teletype to Bureau, 12/24/63.

captioned as above.

Enclosed are twelve copies of a LHM, dated and

Copies of this LHM are being furnished locally

to INS, State Department, Border Patrol,

Customs (local

and regional), Coast Guard, G-2, ONI, OSI, CIA, and FAA,

in addition to the USA, Miami.

REC

Mr. FICKIE has also

No matt 4. 4a104-22

has three boats which will be used to intercept this

the Miami waters.

Mi ami

for review

HSCA PRIO

(See Buf!

Agent in Charge

N₩ 45881

DocId: 32301561

Page 3

FOREIGN

---

## Page 4

-.

MM 105-2855

boat which will maneuver well off shore. The other two

boats will be located in strategic areas closer to shore.

In the event the Cuban boat succeeds in evading inter-

ception, the British will be prepared to seize the plane

and the boat at Bimini.

Due to information furnished by MM T-] concern-

ing the boat obtained by WILLIAM JOHNSON for this operation

on behalf de Bosch, U.S. Customs feels this boat is the

"Ebb Tide,

' a 28' sports fishing vessel with a flying bridge

powered by one motor. JOHNSON has been observed by U. S.

Customs aboard this boat during the periods of time that

MM T-1,reported JOHNSON was scheduled to be in contact with

the boat selected by BOSCH.

MM T-1 is

3625 N. W. 11th •

St., Miami, a former

• Cuban commercial pilot.

Miami has instructed MM T-1 to advise this office

immediately of all further pertinent developments. The:

Bureau and appropriate local agencies will be promptly .

informed of subsequent developments.

The Miami Office has been

furnishing oral inform-

ation immediately to the necessary local agencies on a

current basis pursuant to Bureau instructions.

-2

118-10238

NW 45881

DocId: 32301561 Page 4

OTHER

---

## Page 5

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Re:

CIA HAS NO OR, FCTION TO

Miami, Florida

December 26, 1963

DECLASO EA

AN ANGIOR,

RELE

• 1

'1.

M GRiViATION

IN THE die MENT.

KP 2-5-98

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

SLD/KSR

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

2-19-98

(MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

(JFK)

NEUTRALITY MATTER

Previous Information furnished by MM T-1,

a Cuban exqle who, has been involved in ant1-Fidel Castro

activitigs fos, peveral years, reflects that Doctor

del castro

Avila, head of the Movimiento Insurrecional

de Recugeracion Revolucionaria (MIRR), an ant1-Fidel

Castro organization of Cuban exiles, has been planning

a bombing raid against an oil refinery at Nuevitas,

raid was originally

OTHER 4

Aero Commander airplane,

registration N26-24-B, preparatory

to the raid would take place on the night of December 20,

1963, at Broward International Airport in Florida.

on Deafmher 20, 1963, MM I-1 advised that

the Cuban pilot scheduled to

pilot the plane in this bombing raid, went to Broward

International Airport where Charles Bush, owner of the

Aero Commander, informed the pilot that one of the

motors of the plane had

"burned out,"

and the plane

could not be flown without

MM T-1 said that the pilot, extensive

motor repairs.

examined the plane

and verified that one of the motors was in fact not oper-

Bush promised he would make another plane avail-

able

to Doctor Orlando Bosch.

on the same day, MM I-l learned that someone

other than Charles Bush would pilot whatever plane was

selected from Broward International Airport to Bimini,

Bahama Islands, preparatory to the bombing raid.

The

individual selected to pilot this plane would park the

plane on the Bimini airport and register at a hotel in

the town of Bimini, leaving the plane unattended over-

242961

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

!

TEREIN IS UNCLASSIF.:

ATE 2/00/44

NH 45881

DocId: 32301561 Page 5

---

## Page 6

FAA

REVEWED BY BAHJEK TASK FORCE

8/14/97 dol.

Re: MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;

NEUTRALITY MATTER

RELEASE IN FART

TOTAL DENIAL

night.

The raiding party was scheduled to arrive by boat

at Bimini under cover of darkness from Miami and load the

plane with bombs and then fly it from Bimint to the target

in Cubai.

They would then return to Bimini, st1ll under

cover of darkness, and return by boat to Miami after

leaving the plane at the same place where they had taken

On December 22, 1963, MM T-1 advised that Charles

Bush informed Alpizar that he would substitute a Piper

Aztec plane for the Aero Commander. MM T-I said that Bush

had such a plane at his company at Broward International

Airport.

On December 23, 1963, Mr. Fay Linehan, super-

vising Inspector, Federal Aviation Agency, Miami, advised

that Charles Bush has leased a Piper Aztec plane bearing

registration N4811-P from the Fleet Rental Leasing Corpor-.

ation, Box 948, Clarkesburg, West Virginia, effective in

Apr1l, 1963.

Mr. Linehan advises this 18 the Aztec plane

which

Bush maintains at his place of business.

On December 23, 1963, MM T-1 advised that

Doctor Bosch advised that the boat which he planned to use

In transporting the airplane crew and the bombs from Miami

to B1min1 would depart from Miami on Christmas Day at about

10:00 a.m. or 12:00 a.M. He said this boat has a speed of

only 10 miles per hour, and consequently would have to

depart early in the day instead of during the evening as

was originally planned had & faster boat been obtained.

Bosch said the plane would leave later in the day after

receiving a radio signal from the boat that everything was

proceeding according to plan.

MM T-1 said that William

Johnson, who made

arrangements for the securing of this boat on behalf of

Bosch, disclosed that the Coral Gables canal would be a

better place to depart from than the place which Bosch had

1n mind.

-2-

N₩ 45881

DocId: 32301561

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Re: MOVIMTENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;

NEUTRALITY MATTER

Later on December 24, 1963, MM I-I said that

bosch announced to his party that it had become neces-

sary again to postpone the bombing raid from December

25, 1963, to a later date due to rough seas which would

endanger the boat.

One of Bosch's associates Indicated

that the boat would probably leave Miami on Friday,

December 21, 1963.

(It is to be. noted that a cold front

swept over the Miami

area on the early morning of

December 24, 1963, and seas were reportedly rough.)

On December 26, 1963, MM I-l advised that the

pilot

would take

both an afternoon and night

practice flight with the Piper Aztee plane in possession

of Charles Bush at Broward International Airport. Bosoh

provided money to the pilot for the flight.

MM T-1 said that Bosch disclosed that the boat

OTHER 4

after December 26, 1963.

It 1s to be noted that on December 26, 1963,

the skles in the Miami area were clear and sunny, and

weather conditions were reportedly favorable at sea.

On December 20, 1963, MM T-1 advised that

Doctor Bosch planned to have the raiding party drop

propaganda leaflets over Cuba.

MM I-l furnished the

propaganda leaflet, which 1s In the Spanish language and

which has been translated as follows:

-

-3-

1-24

NW 45881 DocId: 32301561

Page 7

---

