# docid-32285806

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10194-10082

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-1630

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/05/1965

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

SGI, ASSOC, GAMBLING, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE, RADIOGRAM

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32285806 Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

4-3 (578- 12-14-84)

N.

5-6.65

DEB

DECODEDICOPY

• AIRGRAM

O CABLEGRAM

• RADIO XXXTELETYPE

Toleon

Bolnont

Moht -

DeLoach

Casper.

Callahar

Conrad*

Felt

Gale +

Rosen

Sullived

Tavel

"rotte

eld, Roo

Holmes

Gandy -

8:00 BM CDST URGENT 5-5-65 DRS

TO DIRECTOR AND MIAMI

FROM CHICAGO 052124

SAMUEL MO

GIANCANA, AKA, AR.

INFORMATION CONCERNING DOMINICAN REPUBLIC SITUATION

CAREFULLY REVIEWED FOR ADDI LEADS TO IDENTIFY UNSUB T

MEETING, WITH GIANCANA WITH NEGATIVE RESULTS. LAS VEGAS

TO FURNISH LIST RECENT LICENSE ARPLICANTS APPROVED BY

NEVADA A GAMING COMMISSION AS POSSIBILITIES. REVIEW INDICATES

$25,000 WORTH OF SLOT MACHINES OWNED BY LES KRUSE IN LATE

1964 LAST REPORTEDLY LOCATED HISPANOLA HOTEL, SANTO DOMINGO. I

INVESTIGATION CHICAGO DISCLOSED CARMEN BASTONE IN

CHICAGO THIS DATE. PRETEXT INTERVIEW GAVE NO INDICATION 4;

OF HIM HAVING RECENTLY BEEN OUT OF COUNTRY, HOWEVER,

CHICAGO STILL FEELS BASTONE LOGICALLY IDENTICAL TO CARMEN:

MENTIONED BY SOURCE. COMPLETE TRANSCRIPT OF CONVERSATION

BEING FORWARDED AMSD TO BUREAU AND INTERESTED OFFICES. 1)

2**

•BUREAU, THROUGH LIAISON, REQUESTED TO OBTAIN LIST OF

NAMES OF INDIVIDUALS TAKEN FROM DOMINICAN REPUBLIC BY

7:

U.S. BETWEEN APRIL 29 LAST AND MAY 5 PRESENT. MIAMI

RECONTACT

AND

_FOR INFO THEIR

POSSESSION DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC GAMBLING OPERATION OF CHICAGO

GROUP• EXPEDITE. 1)

RECEIVED: 9:15 PM RJP

_EX-116:

REC- 99

92-3171-1637

"ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 4 - 24-84 BYSS5950/

25 MAY 11 1965

PE DEST DO WORStEE

HEA

1 30 UN.e2

SECEIAED-СУГЕ

f the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic svstem

NW 45792 DocId: 32285806

Page 2

OTHER 4

---

