# docid-32327290

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90061-10015

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 109-430-2076

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE:

03/13/1958

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS

ROBERT RAY MCKEOWN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO, INC LHM

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32327290

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

MM 2-165

MM 97-139

CONFIDENTIAL

Four copies of this cover letter are being desig

nated for the Bureau instead of two as it is felt the

Bureau may desire to furnish the Legat at Havana and Mexico

city copies of same. l

Copies of this report have been designated for

information purposes only, for Newark and San Juas, in

view of their present and possible future interest in this

matter. l

Special Enployee JOHN W. SULLIVAN, Washington Fredd

Office, checked INs records on January 13, 1958, relative to

JORGE SOTUS ROMERO. M

It is to be noted that this report is submitted as

& joint investigation

of the cases on CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS,

Et Abos

and the case on July 26 Revolutionary Movement, Miami,

bécause they purportedly combined their activities for the

purpose of launching a joint expedition. As investigation

reflects, however, that it is unlikely that they will continue

to work jointly, future reports will again be carried

seperately in the cases pertaining to PRIO and the July

26 Revolutionary Movement, respectively. U

INFORMANIS

Identity

of Source

Tol is

MM 639-5

Date of Activity

or Description

of Information

xpedition

Date

Received

Agent Whom

Furnished

File No.

Located

1/13-15,.

ISA GEORGE

20,2123

E.

DAVIS,

0134-238 Sub

2

CONFIDENTIAL

54027 DocId: 32327290 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 2-165

MM 97-139

CONFIDYNTIAL

Identity

of Source

Date of Activity

or Description

of Information

MEROLA

Date

Received

11/29 ;/

12/10/57

Agent Whom

Furnished

File No.

Located

62-3937

THOMAS C.

0 DONNELLS

Pittsburgh,

Pennsylvania

7-8 i8

VIV

635-S

Pittsburgh

Agents

CUERVO

2/13,21/58

GEORGE E.

DAVIS, JR.

134-211

Sub A

19 18

SALVADOR

PENA, 1471

NW 37ch

Avenue,

Miam

Junta

PELAYO CUERVO

2646,58

1/25158

GEORGE E.

DAVIS, JR.

8!

Instant

case

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed in this report and "" symbols were utilized only

in those

instances where identities must be concealed.

LEADS

HOUSTON:

AT HOUSTON, TEXAS

1. Will report investigation which has been

conducted in the Houston area concerning this case. Will

let.

CONFIDENTIAL

HH

54027 DooId: 32327290 Page 3

---

