# docid-32292796

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10210-10072

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-2474

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/12/1974

5

SGI, ASSOC, TRA, RES, RCA,

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS : INC MESSAGE RELAY

v91

DocId: 32292796 Page 1

360

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of

1992 144 05C 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hotel

"WONS SECTION

iPir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm.--

Den.-A.D.-Inv....

Admin

Comp

Syst.

E::.

Affaire

Fil: & Com

Gen. ino.

Ident.

In rection

Inteli

Laboratory

Plan. & Hv

Sper.

Tres.

Tr. inine. fo

Legal C'out.

Telephone Rm

Director Suc'y

FTB021 10:28AM 9/13/74 JTG

STATE 498

6:22 PM NITEL 9/12/74 MUD

TO

DIRÉCTOR, FBI (92-3171)

FROM

LEGAT MEXICO CITY (92-13)

NR 819-12

4Pm:

ON...

SAM GIANCANA, AKA; SENTI-RACKETEERING U

3, 431628RFP

REMY TEL SEPTEMBER 11, 1974.U

EEE: ALIASES USED IN MEXICO SAUD

MEXICO CITY AIRTEL,

OCTOBER

31, 1967, REPORTED THAT

SUBUECT AND RICHARD CAIN APRIVER IN MERIDA, YUGATAN, IN MEXICO,

ON SEPTEMBER 12, 1966, ON FLIGHI 607 OF MEXICANA AIRLINES

AND STAYED AT THE HOTEL MERIDA, DEPARTING SEPTEMBER 15, 1966,

ON FLIGHT 62P OF MEXICANA. AT THE HOTEL AND ON THE AIRLINE

MMIESTS, TRY ISED THE LANES GUARLES L RICAR AND ERNIE ROT SISSI

So MONTANO, E

92-3171-2474

MEXICO CITY AIRTEE, SURE 18, 1967, ADVISED THAT P. O.

BOX 1066, CUERNAVACA, MORELOS, MEXICO, WAS LISTED TO RICHARD

SCALZETTI, CALLES DE NUBES 2, RANCHO TETELA, CUERNAVACA. 22 SEP LT 1974

INQUIRY BY A SOURCE AT THIS ADDRESS DEVELOPED INFORMATION FROM MA

CERVANTS THAI THE OWNER OF THE HOUSE WAS KNOWN AS SALVADOR

/SCALZETTI.

12

1u 50820

END PAGE ONE

P0.10

÷?.!

10/8/257

(457999915323

MDocId:32292796 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONF MENTAL

MEX 92-13

PAGE TWO

MEXICO CITY LETTER JULY 3, 1968, REPORTED THAT THE

MANAGER OF "LAS MANANITAS", THE LEADING RESTAURANI IN

CUERNAVACA, IDENTIFIED A PHOTOGRAPH OF SUBJECI AS A FREQUENT

CUSTOMER AND STATED THAT HE KNEW THIS PERSON AS A MR. SCALZETTI.

HE ALSO STATED THAI THE NEPHEW OF SCALZETTI, ALSO KNOWN AS

SCALZETTI, WAS A FREQUENT CUSTOMER AND IDENTIFIED A PHOTOGRAPH

OF RICHARD CAIN AS THIS INDEVIDUALI

MEXICO CITY AIRTEL, APRIL 4, 1968, REPORTED THAI MEXICAN

IMMIGRATION INSPECIORS HAD DETERMINED THAT A MR. OCTAVIO

CISNEROS HAD KNOWN THE SUBJECT AT THE CLUB DE GOLF IN CUERNAVACA

AND KNEW HIM AS SCALZETTI. HE SAID THE SUBJECT HAD SOLD HIM

HIS GOLF CART AT THIS CLUB MANY MONTHS EARLIER. @LU)

MEXICO CITY LETTER MARCH 24, 1972, REPORTED AN INTERVIEW

WITH GERALD W. SCHULTZ, FORMER OWNER OF THE HOUSE KNOWN AS

VILLA SAN CRISTOBAL' OR QUINIA SAN CRISTOBAL IN LAS QUINTAS

IN CUERNAVACA• SCHULTZ IDENTIFIED A PHOTOGRAPH OF SUBJECT AS

THE PERSON CALLING HIMSELF SAM DE PALMA WHO PURCHASED THE ABOVE

HOME FROM SCHULTZ IN ABOUT NOVEMBER OF

END PAGE TWO

CONFIDENTIAL 2-

DocId: 32292796 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

??.

CONFIDENTIAL'

MEX 92-13

PAGE THREE

A FORMER EMPLOYEE OF THE SUBJECT, CELSOCARRETO BENITEZ, EX•:

JOLD AGENTS OF THE NEWARK OFFICE IN MAY AND JULY, 1973, AFTER

N.I.

VIEWING A PHOTOGRAPH OF SUBJECT, THAT HE KNEW SUBJECI AS

SAMUEL DE PALMA AND WORKED FOR HIM IN MEXICO FOR APPROXIMATELY

THREE YEARS UNTIL LATE AUGUST, 1971. HE INTALLY STATED HE

DID NOI KNOW ANYONE BY THE NAME OF SAMUEL GIANCANA. A U

CS MEX-287 ADVISED ON AUGUST 22, 1974, THAT SUBJECI DID NOT

ACKBONLEDGE MIS TRUE IDENTITY TO HIS GOLFING AND CARD PAYING

ASSOCIATES IN MEXICO CITY BUT WAS ALWAYS REFERRED TO BY THEM

AS SAM DE

PALMA. THIS CONTINUED OVER A PERIOD OF NEARLY FIVE

YEARS EVEN THOUGH MOST OF THESE INDIVIDUALS HAD CONCLUDED THAT

SUBJECT WAS GIANCANA AFTER AN ARTICLE APPEARED IN "TIME"

RE: ADDITIONAL FOREIGN TRAVEL

JAMAICA - SUBJECI REPORTEDLY MADE A TELEPHONE CALL TO

HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA, IN MID-FEBRUARY, 197D, CLAIMING THAT HE WAS

IN JAMAICA (LAS VEGAS FD-302 DATED MARCH

1970, RECORDING

INTERVIEW WITH PHYLLIS MC GUIRE). EV

END PAGE THREE

CONFIENTIAL - S-

DocId: 32292796 Page 4

---

