# docid-32300969

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

*Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10277-10304

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-549

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: ROTZ, J. STANLEY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/13/1963

11

LCN, ASSOC, OC, GAMBLING, SHAKEDOWN, EXISTENCE,

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45839 DocId: 32300969 Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

FD-283 (Rev. Ji-se)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

BALTIMORE

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

LA COSA NOSTRA, aka,

BALTIMORE DIVISION

DATE

12/13/63

REPORT

MADE BY:

SA J. STANLEY ROTZ

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD:

6/20/63 to 12/9/63

TYPED BY,

mit

AR-CONSPIRACY

REFERENCE:

Report of SA STANLEY ROTZ dated 6/3/63' at

Baltimore; Report of SA DAMES P. FLYNN at New York dated

7/1/63 regarding natimal organization ; Baltimore letter

to New York dated 9/30/63.

-P-

ENCLOSURES TO THE BUREAU AND NEW YORK:

Two (2) copies

characterizing informants.

each of letter-head memorandum

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA:

York hoodlums to

Information concerning previous efforts of New

'shake down" Baltimore numbers operator

-A•

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

COVER

SPECIALAAGENT

PAGE

3- Bureau (92-6054) (anna)

2- New. York (92-2305) (Enc.2)

3- Baltimore

(92-403)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW.

92-6854

- 549

11O DEC 16 1963

| COPIEE DESTROS

1€

1615:

- 23

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD.

BY.

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

file 7

copies

NOTATIONS:

14 DEC 241963

I.S. COVERNKENT PRINTING OFFICE

- 10-78324-1

REC: 54

NW 45839 DocId: 32300969

Page 2

---

## Page 3

BA 92-403

JULIUS SALSBURY was investigated in case entitled "PASQUALE

LIRPOLI, aka, Patsy Zirpoli; SAL ROMANO; JULIUS SALSBURY-

VICTIM, ITAR-EXTORTION, Baltimoré file 166-29, Bureau file

166-460, New York file 166-110.

As previously reported, USA,

Baltimore, declined prosecution because SALSBURY refused to

admit having been shaken down or to testify.

During the course of investigation of FRANK FIDELE

CORBI, Baltimore file 92-175, Bureau file 92-3621, efforts

have been made to establish a headquarters from which CORBI

operates in order that a highly confidential

source concerning

him can be developed. Surveillances and information from

informants has indicated that CORBI travels a great deal around

iness in public restaurants and on the sidewalk.

Jas now succeeded in securing employment by CORBI

as night bartender at Kathleen's Musical Bar which is owned

and operated by CORBI at 612 E. Baltimore Street.

has already been able to funnish information concerning

visitors to CORBI in an apartment above CORBI's, restaurant

next door at 616 E. Baltimore Street.

This apartment is

occupied by a relative of CORBI's, MARY. PURCELI.

INFORMANTS :

Informant

OTHER 4

Identity

BA T-1

BA T-2

BA T-3

BA T-4

BA T-5

BA T-6

PCI

$ 1220*

RA TO G TE

3864-C TE

BA 1242-PC

PCI

Furnished to

SA. J. STANLEY ROTZ

IC ANGELO LANO

SA BENJAMIN E. GRAVES

SA JOHN C. BONNER

SA J. STANLEY ROTZ

SA JOHN C. BONNER

LEADS:

THE BALTIMORE DIVISION

AT BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

1. Will continue to develop information concerning

logical location frequented by FRANK CORBI and his associates

-B-

COVER

PAGE

5.d-D-i

NW 45839

DocId: 32300969 Page 3

---

