# docid-32340192

## Page 1

| Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90155-10007

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-68530-27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 02/26/1964

' PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

NOSENKO 1964 REPORTINGS

YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

DocId: 32340192 Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

D-36 (Rev.: 12-13-56)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

SEGRET I

Date:

2/26/64

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

5-9-48

WaUS.DAGUMENED KiP 3-19-98

CIA ONY ADDRESSED"

195. 12.3,4,6 FM Type in plain text or codes

AIRTEL

•ATTGN

CLASSISIED BY 5668 SID/KSR

Via

I92•

(Prioriey or Method of MaiDECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

(JFK)

WHERS SHORN 00

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, WRO [134-54372 (Tu

YURT IVANOVICH ROSENKO

ESP - R (KGB) TA W

(0O FO)

sage

delu

рача

(U)

aara

disselcation

130 P

MA

AND FIELD OFFIN

ADVISED BY

SLIP(S) 0F

DocId: 32340192

ReWTOalrtel 2/25/64/84 U

NOSENKO was again interviewed on 2/26/64 by SAS

DONALD E. WALTER, ALEKSO 'POPTANICH and MAURICE A• TAYLOR at

the same

and the interview proceeded agreeably, touching a variety

of topics, including display of a considerable number of

photographs.

Source expressed concern over the welfare of

his family in the Soviet Union and stated in effect the

CIA was not able to develop any information concerning

their welfare.

Source stated that it was his hope that CIA

would develop some

news and expressed hope that they might

be able to do something to bring the family to the U.s.

The source stated his concern over his family has been

greatly increased over the amount of publicity he has been

receiving in the newspapers and felt this was detrimental

to him and his family. He specifically referred to the

article in the "Washington Post" on 2/26/64 and stated that

data contained in this article concerning his background was

substantially true.

He stated that the source of this

information, without a doubt, was in Germany.

He requested

that information from him be

used with care and

that at no

time should it result in any type of publicity

(U)

REC- 56.

65-685

- Bureau

- New York (Info) (RM)

1

- WrO

MAT : pap

(5)

AIRTEL

€ MAR: 51964

* (U)

65-683

Е. 90,0

CLASSIFIED AND

SECRET MASCH CORE

HASI

FCIM, 11, 1-2.4:2

Sent

DATE OF REVIEW PI

964

Agent in Charge

DECLASSIFICATION.

He last

Goạl

02020.

ORIGINAL DOCUMENT SENT TO

NATIONAL ARCHIVES UFKARCA

DATE

N2/0

Page 2

Yuri

Nöse ko körld.

---

## Page 3

Released under the John'T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej?

DATE: 11-14-2017

* sam

EwF04134-5437]

00n090/2:12)

their action, Minsk advised that they had not directed the

matter but that MARINA OSWALD's uncle, who was a lieutenant

colonel in the local militia, had voluntarily approached

OSWALD and requested that he

not be too critical of the

Soviet Union upon his return to the U.s.

Source commented

that when Minsk was originally requested to furnish a summary

of OSWALD's file, they were not aware of the international

events that took place, therefore,

in an attempt to ingratiate

themselves with the KGB center in Moscow, had included the

statement concerning their endeavors to influence OSWALD ir

the right direction. u

Source stated that the KGB was upset over the OSWALD

affair and had

a staff of employees called in to work.

The

file was reviewed in detail to make sure that the KGB did not

utilize OSWALD as an agent. U

Inquiry was made concerning MARINA OSWALD, and

source advised that the wife of OSWALD was not in the employ

of KGB as an agent. He stated she was regarded

as not a

particularly intelligent person, but stated she had been a

member of the komsomol but was dropped for nonpayment of dues

over a long period.

Source advised that she was permitted to

leave Russia with her husband but this was not significant

since there was no objection from KGB and that under the law

since the death of STALIN, it is possible for a Russian wife

to depart the Soviet Union with her foreign husband.

Source

again stated that OSWALD had never worked for KGB. U

(S)

Unsub; U.S. Code Clerk En Route

From Helsinki to Moscow

NOSENKO was asked if he recalled

any time within

the past few yearsithat VADIM V. KOSOLAPOV had been sent from

Moscow to Helsinki in an effort to intercept and make

acquaintance with a US. code clerk

srior to his arrival in

the Soviet Union.

NOSENKO immediately recalled an incident

during the period the KGB was attempting to recruit JAMES

STORSBURG (1960-61). The kGa lelt code clerkel vere not

4-

SECRET,

DocId:32340192 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Höte) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

SEC...

ENFO 134-5437

(u)

Cui

ential

Unsub; American Woman Employee of

X211

American Embassy, Moscow,

Allegedly

Recruited by KGB

Source was questioned concerning

the above case

which allegedly involved recruitment of a female employee of

the American Embassy who visited the Sochi-Tbilisi area on

vacation with a female companion and was seduced,

recruited

and later contacted in Moscow.

Source advised after consid-

ering the facts that he did not recall such a case involving

that there had been such a case

her association with one TERPSICHOROV, Cameraman for Mosfilm

was discussed with NOSENKO, who expressed the opinion this

could very well be the case in question.

The source did not

recognize the name TERPSICHOROV,

but expressed opinion he was

an agent of KGB and observed that the case officer is prohib

ited from any close intimate contact with female foreigners.

WILLIAM H. MARTIN and/

BERNON F. MITCHELL

-(%)

NOSENKO was questioned concerning the above indiv-

iduals and advised that he had no knowledge and the 2nd

Directorate had no interest in MARTIN or MITCHELL prior to

the time of their arrival in the Soviet Union. He advised

he could furnish no information concerning any recruitment.

or operation of these men in the U.S.

Source advised after

their arrival in Moscow they were interviewed on a couple

occasions by VLADISLAV M. KOVCHUK, NIKOLAI SKVORTSOV, and

VADIM V. KOSOLAPOV, all 2nd Directorate, with KOSOLAPOV act-

ing as interpreter.

Present also was one or more specialists

from the 8th Directorate (cypher).

Source advised that he

understood MARTIN and MITCHELL furnished all information in

their possession and it was regarded as important. (S(4)

6

SECRET

Con?,

dential

DocId: 32340192 Page 4

---

