# docid-32311266

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10311-10288

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-27799-511

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

- FROM: LEG, OT

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/11/1964

'PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

USSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/22/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32311266

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Refeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES GA

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Director, FBI

COURIDENT

ATE:

December 11, 1964

Legat, Ottawa (62-499)

13t14

SUBJECT:

RELATIONS WITH SECRET SERVICE

THREATS AGAINST THE PRESIDENT

ReBulet to Legat, Bern, 11/19/64.

As RCMP has sole responsibility for security of

visiting dignitaries in Canada and maintains a surveillance

booklet setting out identities, background and capabilities

of persons who might embarrass

the Government by activities

during such visits, the writer contacted Superintendent. w. G.

Fraser,

Assistant Director, Criminal Investigations, RCMP

Headquarters, on December 1, 1964.

Legat was subsequently advised

the booklet

is under review and procedure being revised for

handling. - It is planned to issue cards on each individual in

a color code system which will prevent necessity for periodic

This review should be completed in

January, 1965, at which time copy of same and subsequent

amendments will

be made available to this office for referra!

to the Bureau.

From

contacts with Superintendent Fraser and

members of the Directorate of Security and Intelligence,

it is known this will contain all such individuals, including

those with security backgrounds.

It is Legat's understanding that letterhead

memoranda on security index subjects, including those residing

outside the United States, have been prepared by the office

of origin. If this is not correct, please advise in order

THIs is

that appropriate letterhead memoranda may be prepared.

3-21-97

pEte

poin

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 5LD/KSR

Back

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

PEC,

JFK.)

3 - Bureau (1 - Liaison

1 - Ottawa

MLI : MEG

at 62-22799-511

(4)

 DEG T 1960

35

800E02216

AGA RE

00F LEFT DIA

SEC,O

10311-0988

DoeId: 32311266

Page 2

---

