# docid-32305354

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10287-10484

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-1ST NR 353, 354

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/20/1967

• PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, ANTI- CASTRO ORGANIZATIONS, MEETINGS, PLANS,

ACA, CUBAN GOVERNMENT, CANADA, ARMS, EQUIPMENT,

AIR ATTACK, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC R/S, LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32305354

Page 1

50

---

## Page 2

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Motel.

DATE: 11-14-2011

NAL FORM NO. 10

1982 EDITIO:1

•. AFFME (11 CR) 101-15.8

UNITED STATES GO. RNMENT

.

SORETI

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-1474)

FROM

SAC, MIAMI (105-2855) (P)

SUBJECT

DATE: 7/20/67

ALL iNFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

UNCLASSIFIED

MORE SHOWN

REVIEWED BY TEM

LEK TASK FORCE

d

8

- INCLASSIE

01 5

1680

REVOLUCIONARIA

IS - CUBA;

NM

Army/Navy/Alr Force/DIA/Customs/Coast Guard

Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, State/ FAA

(00: Miami)

By R/S For Info

Re Miami airtel to Bureau

nclosures.

1 datea 4726/67, with

Enclosed herewith are ten copies of letterhead

memorandum dated and captioned as above.

Copies are being disseminated locally to the

following

federal agencies: INS,

State Dept. (Cuban

AFrairs), Border Patrol, Customs (Miami, Region II and

FELL

• West),

Coast Guard,

111th M. I. Group, Orlando,

NI SO,

OSI, CIA and USAFAD, Miami Springs, Florida.

/MM T-1 is MM 847-S.

NEL

RELEASE

TOTAL

Classified by 5P66 TALGCL

MM T-2 is MM 974-S.

Declassily one 8ADR2/24/85

MM T-3 is WILLIAM SAMPOL, confidential source

Loathe New York OfficeR

MM I-4 is MM 635-S.

/ MM T-S iS STANLEY SCHACHTER, Assistant U. S.

Customs

Agent in Charge, Miami, Florida.

Enclosed LHM is being classified secret inasmuch

as it contains information from MM T-3 so classified.

Copies are being designated for the New York and

Newark Offices inasmuch as pending

REC- 31

Investigation is being

- Bureau (Enc. 10)

- New York (Inc. tiNg) (R)

r.=

EX-108

JUL 2'8 1957

1

- Miami

ReD: vC

'86AUG3

1967

10: 73

SECRET

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Sawing Pran

EXCAN

5010-108-01

DocId: 32305354 Page 2

- —

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

- DATE: 11-14-2017

Re:

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

and headquarters for the purpose of establishing unity and

saving money on office rent.

MM T-2 explained that these

four anti-Castro organizations have enjoyed a limited degree

oI. cooperation but it was highly doubtful that

they would

ever establish a unity group or a merger.?

On May 12, 1967, MM T-2 stated that Marcelino

Garcia claimed that Bosch at that time had two small

boats available and was trying to obtain more.

Garcia said that it was actually more important for the

organization to obtain money in order to rent an airplane.

However, Garcia did not indicate that the MIRR would have

any military operations in the near future.

MM T-3, who is knowledgeable about Cuban revolution-

ary matters, on June 5, 1967, advised that a meeting took

place on the night of June 3, 1967, at a shoe store owned

Kin

and operated by IGNACIO NOVO, secretary general of the Cuban

Nationalist Movement and

his brother, Guillerin/Novo, a

member of the Cuban Nationalist Movement at Jersex Cit.y.,..

New Jersey

Present at this meeting in addition te the Novo

brothers were Orlando Bosch Avila and Manuel A. de farona,

head of Rescate Revolucionaria Democratica (RRD), an anti-

castro organization with headquarters In the New York area. Cl

MM T-3 said that discussed at this meeting were

future plans of anti-Castro organizations against the present.

Cuban government and those plans were centered in Canada.

Bosch wanted to carry out a two-pronged attack against the

Cuban government in Canada and specifically spoke about

the assassination of the Cuban ambassador to Canada and

the attack on the Cuban ship in the port of Montreal, Canada.

Bosch stated that they would not use any members of the Cuban

Nationalist Movement because they were "too hot." Bosch

said that his man (First Name Unknown) Gutierrez in Miami,

had nine rockets, timing devices, C-3 and C-4 which could

be used in their future plans.

Bosch stated that the Cuban

exue wanth to autureno u.s. Government, the fBi and do (U)

-25

DocId: 32305354 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Re: MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

• (MIRR)

the Immigration and Naturalization Service, that action which

cuban Nationalist Movement, could not stop Cubar

exiles in

their fight against Fidel Castro of Cuba. C YU.

mn T-s said that Bosch told the Novo

Varona that upon his return to Miami, he would have (First

Name Unknown) Gutierrez, send the necessary equipment to

one of Bosch's men in the New.York area and coordinate

future plans with

the Cuban Nationalist Movement through the

Novo brothers.

Mn T=4,

Cuban exile who is in frequent contact

with Orlando Bosch Avila, advised that Jorge Gutierrez

Ulla, for the past two years, has been acting as press chief

in Miami for the MIRR.

He works in the office at MIRR

headquarters, is about 22 years old, is considered very

militant and hostile to the U. S. Government.

MM T-4 on May 16, 1967, advised that on that night

there was a meeting in front of MIRR headquarters in Miami

which started at about 8 o'clock.

The meeting was a joint

gathering of Cuban Nationalist Movement and MIRR members for

the purpose of getting. Cuban exiles. to obtain signatures

to petitions seeking the release of Felipe Rivero Diaz from.

MM T-4 said that CNM and MIRR members decided to hold

a subsequent demonstration at Bayfront Park in Miami and it was

announced that Rivero would start a hunger strike on May 16,

1967.

About 60 to 80 people attended this meeting and

the Miami Police Department had uniformed officers outside

the MIRR headquarters trying to maintain order.

On June 9, 1967, MM T-4 advised that Bosch said

he was

going to attend an importast meeting that night at

8 p.m. at the home of Jose antonio mulet, 201N. W. 35th

Avenue, Miami, Florida, telephone number HI 6-7118. Bosch

FIDENTIA

- 3-

DocId: 32305354

Page 4

---

