# docid-32291783

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10208-10059

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-2009

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/10/1967

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, TRA, HOTEL, SURVEILLANCE

DOCUMENT TYPÉ: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32291783

Page 1

288

---

## Page 2

Released under

the John F.,Hetnety Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210

Hoter.

DAPPES (F9Y-14-2017

REVERSE

SIPt

SIDE

STION

TES

PICATION

VinO

05R

F.BI

CIASSIFTED DE

PY DEPAR

DATE:

36/95

Transmit the follo

wing

in

I28 (DRC) COME

5/10/67

(Type in plain text or

AIRTEL

Via

(Priority or Method of Matling)

APPROP

OR FIELD

STAINLE

DATE

To:

Director, FBI (92=3171)

From:

Legat, Mexico City (92-13) (*

SAMUEL

ADV

HAR BE NO

@GIANCANA, AKA

STri

S0 BY

5668 SLO/GC DAT

ReMEXcabs 5/2 and 5/3/67, Bucabs to MEX 5/2 and

5/4/67, MEX airtel to the Bureau 4/13/67 and report of

SA WILLIAM E: ROEMER, 3/23/67, at Chicago.

The following sources were contacted?by SA

LAWRENCE F. WIRICK, JR. (protect) in Acapulco,

Mexico,

"on 4/5,6,7/67 for information cöncerning the sabject

with negative results.

shown these individuals with negative results:

New sholoraphs us subjeca

MARTEL ALVARADO MEDINA, Chief of Mexican Immigration

URBANO LUNA, Chief of Police

LIC. HERNANDEZ PIEDRA, Tourism

ALFREDO BERRIATUA LOPEZ, TourismS

FLAVIO LOPEZ, American Express

MIGUEL ANGEL RUIS, Chief, Judicial

RICARDO PEREA, owner, La Gamba Restaurant

RAUL RODRIQUEZ, Assistant Manager, Hotel Presidente

PAUL SILICED, Manager, Hertz de Mexico

'CARLOS HUDSON SUTTER, Manager, Avis de Mexico

JOSE VILLALON L., Manager, Hotel Niza

It

noted that PETER J. MAGGIO and wife stayed

Lasa

Brisas

Hotel from

4/3/67 to

Nostra

member

from

Phil

ade

phia

4/6/67.

MAGGIO is a Cosa

and brother-in-law

of

ANGELO

BRUNO

AAA

Bureau

(1 - Liaison Section)

(2 - Chicago - 92-349

1 - Mexico City

RSC: int

(7)

EX-103)

REC 10

92-3171-2009

MAY 15 1967

WONTIN

acc pint CC

lard

10-75-19-61

AX 2 219671

Approved:

0016:28

Special-Agent in Charge

Sent

CLASS

EXEMPI FI:

ROM CDS,

HORY

DAIS AI

DEEASSIFICATION INDEFINITE_

Relea

4419-22

DocId: 32291783 Page 2

---

## Page 3

RELeased

under the Johr F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Ret

DATE: 11-14-2017

11'44

"USt

MEX 92-13

FRANK M. BRANDSTETTER, General Manager,

Hotel Las

Brisas and his security officer

CARLOS G. SSOLANA, both

advised 4/5 and 6/6% after shown current pictures of GIANCANA;

certain that no one looking like subject has

at the Hotel

or in contact with MAGGIO during his stay.

Previous inquiry conducted by Mexico

City in this

Mexico City with PHYLLIS Me GUIRE on several occasions since

MeXico

the sunmer of 1965, lu C

TOW

KMEX-258 had advised

thatthis investigatorg determined

that the subject resided at Hotel

_Canarios,

in Cuernavaca until

about December 6, 1966. On 4/7/674MEX-258

urnished supplemental

data based on

further inquiry at Cuernavaca.

He advised that he

had determined that Hotel Canarios, which is definitely not a

first class hotel, does not maintain registration cards, there-

fore no such card

could be located for the subject.

Control

of guests

is maintained

by a daily list of arrivals and

departures.

These

17

ES

did not appear.

were reviewed and subject's name

Source advised

that his investigators reportod

that subject was in Cuernavaca was based on identification of

photographs of the subject by various employees of this hotelf

It is therefore considered doubtful that it can be

established that the subject

in Cuernavaca in 1966.

yest at the Hotel Canarios

It is noted that at the time of the arrival of

PHYLLIS MC GUIRE in Mexico City On

not have a good representative selection of citrent photographs

f the subject. *However

were at the

and those associated with her

observed at the airport

felt certain that the subject was

This is considered re-enforced by the tact that this

individual was

seen in contact with RICHARD CAIN known associate

of the subeit, Mute de vas dear acme la die

Ill.

DocId: 32291783 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

A do 165x

MEX 92-13

(u..

surreptitious manner and avoided all contact with Me GUIRE.

In addition he was seen driving a car with Illinois plates*

It is noted that RICHARD CAIN was later observed in

this car by Agents of Mexican Immigration.

Representatives

of Mexican Immigration advised they confirmed that CAIN

had brought this car into Mexico and examined the records of

by the subject.

Regarding the recent report that the subject was

at the Hotel Tecali in Mexico 162-4555, and THOMAS MORGANO,

it is noted that ERNEST SANSUNE,

BuFile

162-1323, Chicago file

BuFile 92-4902, were guests at the Hotel Tecali in February,

1965.

It is noted that their reservations were made by Mrs.

CLARENCE BELLAVIA, a Mexico

CIty resident related to SANSONE:

As reported MEX-254-who has furnished reliable

intormation in the past fluvised 5/2/67 that he had conducted

inquiry at the Hotel Teeali, Mariano Escobedo 736, Mexico City.

rhis 1s a luxury hotel consisting exclusively of suites anc

catering to wealthy indivduals and semi-permanent residents.

It is located out of the

central

tourist area on a park near

the Paseo de la Reforma®

Source advised that he reviewed registrations from

April 1 on and could locate no registration for the subjes (U

Hotel personnel could not identify subjeet's photograph.

One female

hotel enployee recalled a telephonic

inquiry several days

before during which the manager was

asked whether subject was registered and replied in the

negative.

There were subsequent similar

from Chicago also replied in the negative.

telephone

furthekanquiry was conducted 5, 3/67

at the Hotel

mayho has furnished reliable iniormation

who is intimately acquainted with GONZAL

MUNGUIA, Manager of the Hotel Tecali.

-Nu)

detailed review of the records of the hotel

revealed no present or past registration for the subject.

&The manager MUNGUIA was shown photographs of the subject

and

Stated the subiect was not known to him and had never reistered

approximately

elevator operators, and bar and

restaurant

personnel were also contacted and shown photographs

of the subject and stated

subject was not a guest. at that

508-10021

DocId: 32291783

Page 4

---

## Page 5

eleaset under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

hotel and not familiar to them. U!

pintim-a-449A71

; The manager and otner

personnel/noted that there

are only 20 suites and all guests are generally personally

known to all employees, particularly tu the manager.

The

records of the hotel show the only persons checking out on

4/30/67 were a young Mexican honeymoon couple named SUAREZ.

Source confirmed that there was an employee at the

hotel named CRUZ who had spoken with someone from Chicago.

However CRUZ advised that he had been confused and had not

unuerstood the caller.

Information 400 and may therefure have lurnited erronsas

Ox, (4)

MEX-42, 196, 25 and 55%

since 5/2/67151090 City Surveillancekinformants

established surveillance in the

vicinity of the Hotel Tecali and have reported nothing of

interest.

In addition they conaucted neighborhood inquiry

in that vicinity with negative results.

Furthermore they

conducted spot

surveillance of most of

the leading hotels

in Mexico City and Cuernavaca with negative results

Information concerning the reported news story which

was to appear in Chicago alleging subject's possible presence

in Mexico was furnished confidentially on 5/4/67 to Attorney

JORGE VAZQUEZ RUBLES, Chief of the Inspection Service of

Mexico Immigration who was most appreciative and desired

further particulars concerning subject's possible presence

in Mexico or any news items reporting such presence.

On 5/9/67 SA STEVE D. EVANS (protect) while on

another assignment in Panama telephonically notified this

office that appropriate sources in Panama had been alerted to

subject's possible presence in that area.

He advised that

travel records for 1956 had been destroyed and he had

as yet been unable to contirm

subject's

arrival in Panama

9/10/66 on subsequent travelts

LEAD

MEXICO CITY

AT MEXICO, DaF.

Will' continue efforts through sources

to establish subject's whereabouts.

empt

DocId: 32291783 Page 5

---

