# docid-32301707

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10042

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-4474-470

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

08-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR. FBI

TO: DOS

TITLE:

DATE: 08/16/1968

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT: OBA, MIRR, ANTI-CASTRO GROUP, CUBAN EXILES, SHIP BOMBINGS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS®

09/15/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE, TTY

NH 53932 DocId:32301707 Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO TIAT

CONTIDENTIAL

DOE ENDORS CE POOCH NEED A POI

TORA HOTE IS S IDS AT THAT PO 1

DECEIVER A SUPPLY ME DETRLAIONG AND CATTETILATTTITAT

HEADY TO ETHOD DOLAE

ACO TILTIOLIN THIS A MINT

LATER ON TO TAY DE MODI DIXTER, MI TEEN SIYTY MI, I'

COINCE

15 TELEPIDLISALY CONTACIENT IDIOS SO COCO TALE TO ALS

FAIRPIT TOOTH MOSCHE OUF

SUIT TA SCHEDUL TO COME TO DIATIOUTHIS DATE A DIALIE

TYRE TOILE

CONTALET AGE THIS COGIE LI CONET INL

"HO RETIIVLE THE IMPrESSIC! THIT

POLISI SHIP ICHI ME NUDES CO-SIDERITE IS INE MEXE GONE A TASER

IHE AUNT FIFITON, SINTY DICHI DITLY ME SPOT OT TI

POT AT LIDDI DELIOTE THAT THE SYNICA ITSEEI

IN MESSEL DE PALI'M MGISTLY AS SCHEDULED I A BINE "IN'I

AL V'ST IXIEHAD TO DPA T AUCUST TIENTY

AFPEADS A TE DAILY DOG TOT

de: X111275

14 53932

DocId: 32301707 Page 2

---

## Page 3

=00

PAGE TWO. MM

105-2855

HE BADLY NEEDS ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS AND: HE EXPECTED TO OBTAIN

A CONTRIBUTION IN THIS AMOUNT.

1) (4)

LATER ON THE DAY OF AUGUST SIXTEEN THE MIAMI SOURCE WAS O

TELEPHONICALY CONTACTED BY ANDRES JORGE GONZALEZGONZALES, CHIEF

BOMB EXPERT FOR THE BOSCH GROUP • GONZALEZ REMARKED THAT A POLISH

SHIP WAS SCHEDULED TO COME TO MIAMI ON THIS DATE AND THAT THERE

MAY BE TROUBLE"• GONZALEZ MADE THIS COMMENI IN "DOUBLE TALK",

ACCORDING TO THE SOURCE, WHO RECEIVED THE IMPRESSION THAT THIS

POLLEN ABUSE TRE NO ONE TO THE NE O TARGET. X/2)

THE AUGUST FIFTEEN, SIXTY EIGHT DAILY DOCK REPORT OF THE

PORT OF MIAMI REFLECIS THAT THE KRYNICA" A THREE FOUR FOUR TWO.

TON VESSEL OF POLISH REGISTRY WAS SCHEDULED TO ARRIVE MIAMI

AUGUSI SIXTEEN AND TO DEPART AUGUST TWENTY. NO OTHER POLISH VESSEL

APPEARS ON THE DAILY DOCK REPORT.

ADMINISTRATIVE

14(21)

RE MIAMI TEL AUGUST FIFTEEN TO BUREAU.

MIAMI SOURCE IS OSCAR ANGULO REYES, PSI DASH CUBAN, UNDER

DEVELOPMENT . (K)

(U.)

ABOVE INFORMATION WILL BE IMMEDIATELY FURNISHED LOCALLY TO

USCE ; ÖFFICE OF CUBAN AFFAIRS, STATE DEPARIMENI; CAPT ROBERT

WALDRON, CHIEF OF OPERATIONS, PORT OF MIAMI; MIAMI PD AND

PoliCE DEPAREMEXE

ShERiFE'S OFFiCE

DADE COUNTY SO.

TAMPA ADVISED SEPARATELY.

END

JDR

FBI WASH DC

NW 53932 DooId:32301707 Page 3

---

