# docid-32306070

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10289-10200

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-6054-2192

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/30/1967

'PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

LCN, ASSOC, ARREST, RAID, MAWANDA SOCIAL A/O

ATHLETIC CLUB, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, NOTE, RS

v9.1

DocId: 32306070

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

' DATE? 11-14-2017"

VIA TELETYPE

NOV 30 1967

FBI NEW YORK. 1

ENCIPHERED

12.19 AM DEFERRED 11-30-67 WMS

TO DIRECTOR 92-6054

FROM NEW YORK 92-2300

Mr. Delor

DeLodel

-Mr.

Mobr

Mr.

Bishop

Mr.

Casper_

Mr. Callahan.

Mr.

Conrack

Mr. Felt

Mr. Gale k

MI. RosEn

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel

MI. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

ANTIRNCKETIERING

"LA COSA NOSTRA" AKA, AR-CONSPIRACY

ON ELEVEN SEVENIEEN SIXTY SEVEN, NY THREE FOUR SIX ONE -C-TEL

ADVISED, THAT JAMES FAILLA, A "CAPTAIN" IN THE CARLO GAMBINO "

"FAMILY" WAS OPERATING A FAST ACTION. CARD GAME IN THE MAWANDA

ATHLETIC

SOCIAL AND

ATHELIE CLUB, SEVEN ZERO TWO TWO FIFTEENTH AVE., BKLYN.,

NY. THE GAME IS KNOWN AS "BANKERS AND BROKERS". HE STATED FURTHER

THAT NUMEROUS MEMBERS OF THE GAMBINO"FAMILY" WERE IN ATTENDANCE

AT THIS GAME. HE STATED FURTHER THAT THERE WAS NO INDICATION

THAT FREY WERE IMPORTING ANY PLAYERS FROM OUT OF STATE.: &

THIS INFO WAS FURNISHED IO INSPECTOR LOUIS COTTELL, COMMANDING

CRIMINE TNLESPIORPIONE BUMBAI

OFFICERS GIBig

NYCPD.

Not eir Paler dee

AS A RESULT, ON ELEVEN TWENTY SIX SIXTY SEVEN, THE MAWANDA

ATHLETIC

ROLLOUISE ONE GENRERS OF THE CAL SANES

FOLLOWING KNOWN MEMBERS OF THE CARLO GAMBINO "FAMILY" WERE ARRESTEI

FOR LOITERING WITH INTENT TO GAMBLZ!3

END PAGE ONE

• are 176 DEG 1 19671

30

XEROX

11-30-

MR.

• DELOACH FOR THE DIRECTOR

9.00

NOV 1967

DocId: 32306070 Page 2

---

