# docid-32287050

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10196-10326

HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-9-1091

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

11/02/1962

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS:

THP, MISUR, MARCY, PAT, SGI, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32287050

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Nóte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-350 Sub U

by LURIE, MARCY, and Alderman D'ARCO.

CG 6443-C, this

lat is uermized by person ra the first

Police District to drop off Police payments which are

in turn picked up by either Policemen or the "bagman"

in the District.

informant has

further advised

that JOEY DI VARCO has utilized this location as a

drop off point for payments for Police favors also.

LURIE has been known to be very close to LOUIS ARGER

and CHAPPIE BERTUCCI, two Syndicate hoodlums who

operate burlesque houses, strip joints, and amusement

palaces on the south side of Chicago's Loop.

It is interesting to note from the foregoing

conversation that the apparent close relationship held by

Chicago hoodlums

with the Exchange National Bank stems

from the personal relationship existing between JOEY

DI VARCO and GEORGE SAX, President of the bank. The.

reference in the early

part of the foregoing conversation

that LURIE made to the fact that "he held off getting

the money" for Little CAESAR refers to a loan owed him

by JERRY SAX,

son of GEORGE SAX,

It is pointed out also

that SAX is known to have operated

prostitution activities

in his Saxony Hotel, which was formerly owned by him in

Miami and which hotel was a well known hang-out for

Chicago hoodlums who were in that area in years gone by.

DOMINIC SENESE is a brother-in-law of TONY

ACCARDO and also runs a Loop parking lot.

JOHN MATASSA

is one of the top lieutenants for SAM GIANCANA and has

not been known to be employed by any union much less

that of JOEY GLIMCO in present organizing tactics.

GLINCO is well known to the Bureau as a Chicago top

hoodlum and head of Teamster Local 777, Taxicab Drivers

Union.

JULIUS ECHELES is one of Chicago's leading

criminal attorneys.

JOHN LARDINO is a former Business Agent of

Local 450, Hotel Clerks,

Restaurant Employees and

Bartenders Union. Apparently from the above, he has

given his union members to JOEY CAESAR.

- 9-

DocId: 32287050 Page 2

---

