# docid-32397007

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER: 104-10429-10065

RECORD

SERIES: JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:RUSS

HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F.

Kennedy

hasassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53320 Date:

06-24-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : DEPUTY DIR FOR PLANS

TO : DIRECTOR FBI

TITLE :

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY-ALLEGATION OF U/I

SCIENTIST OF CUBAN INVOLVEMENT IN ASSASSINATION.

DATE: 12/23/1964

PAGES. : 3

SUBJECTS : CUBAN SCIENTIST

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

PAPER

SECRET

1B

RELEASED IN PARI PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

12/13/98

JFK-RH17 : F02: 1998.12.13.08:09:10:483107

---

[R] - ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

104-10429-10065

HN 33320

DocId: 32397007

Page 1

---

## Page 2

80241159K

BONGDAM

1955

ATTACHMENT #

HIT

53320

DooId:32397007

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TO

Director

Reicial Bricau of

Irvestigatien

Aliention:

s. j. Papich

FROM : Dopuly Director foi Plaus

SUD06

Assasrination di President Acrocdy

Allegation en

An untented tource recertly Zardshed us wile the following

informatica he allegedly received from a well-tront

and acquaintanco op 28 Morezber 1903, but vaick be Dad tornotes io

ceoon. The release ci the Maaron Commission Repeat on the corner

indrios reminded him of the taridert.

2. The cicotist said that bo chance te had boch at the Mica

airport on the adternoon ef 22 Novembor 1943 wion cd 1700 bourg ca

aircrattwith lesican maritings landed and paolica it

to tar dion of the

fio)d. Iwomen, whem be recogaiacd as Cuban "sangutere,

cotoned the renz entrance of the admicicication building eud Oregacorod

without goiog through the noral curioms proceet:

The carterily

was aroused, and lie was able to leaza that the cicerod tad fort attired.

Iron: Dallar, Tenne, via Miguana und Merico City, Doc plane ird bein

forced to land at Tijuana duo do cried trouble. By condising the date,

the origin of toe ilirat, and tre lendma codetorion es tie to many

ne

¡corized cat the fro men must have been involved condom in the astat

¡nacion ci President Acacody, He Apcontated thel Lad Couter 607220

and accod in the car of ChoTRo, and that tre tro Curand tod boca in

Dallas to orconino do Overdo too operatione tie told the soured that he

bad been grently distrenced to veed he dad cera and beare and had to

¡cil someone about it. ie then costioned source not to tell anyone alac

eboot it;

or they would both be shot by the Cobags.

3. The coarce bas passed acad tinee tarnishing too above intore

mation, them touring toy tolord to ile mater introdsiold.

HH 53320 DocId:32397007 Page 3

---

## Page 4

We cre Comarding the above 202 gone harration

I Ti

the event you way wish

to conchet further tapectication

of the alleged airplahe 1l4Ght iron

Dallas

5. Please keep our

terrecontatire an trico. City

indoned of anything.

surther you nagbt team on

thin cattere

CSC. 910/02646-64

W11/1/Zerance: dc

Distribution:

Orig.

1. Addressee

c.17 December 1961

RI (201-322217883:9an

-BASIC:

LGG1-3071

CI/LIA

fel Credith and

1..a

CT/R&A

EB/G

deed

PROJECT:

XONE

WH/ SA

Co-ordinated mith:

• 111/MEXI

1

WH/1

are

WH/PO/A

THAGA

(drait)

CI/DEA: (orait)

!""

HW 53320

DocId: 32397007 Page 4

---

