# docid-32404374

## Page 1

....

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10331-10245

RECORD SERIES

:JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PROJFILES -CORRESPONDENCE

Released under the John F.

kennedy Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC

Case#:NU 53217

Date: 06-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: ASST. GENERAL COUNSEL

TO : ALCORN. LAW OFFICES OF FENSTERWALD

TITLE : LETTER: THIS LETTER REPONDS TO YOUR REQUEST OF MARCH

1, 1994/REIMBURSEMENT

DATE

09/25/1995

PAGES

1

SUBJECTS : FOIA

JFK ASSASSINATION

CLOSETTATE PACLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS :

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS:

04/29/03

JFK-M-16: F10: 2000.02.10.09:18:30:717044

[R]

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10331-10245

HH 53217 DocId: 32404374

Page 1

---

## Page 2

....

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

Office of General Counsel

OGC-95-52661

25 September 1995

Daniel Alcorn, Esquire

Law Offices of

Fensterwald & Alcorn

1952 Gallows Road, Suite 307

Vienna, VA

22182

Dear Mr. Alcorn:

This letter responds to your request of March 1, 1994,

reiterated in letters dated May 6, 1994, and January 11, 1995,

that the Central Intelligence Agency reimburse the Assassination

Archives and Research Center ("Center") $3,744.00 to cover your

services after the Agency requested from James

Lesar permission

to retrieve and replace certain documents in which it had

inadvertently released the name of a former human intelligence

source.

In the end, it was determined that the information was

no longer reasonably retrievable due to widespread dissemination

and all documents were returned. We regret that we are unable to

reimburse the Center.

You cite in your January 11, 1995 letter the Freedom of

Information Act (FOIA) as authority for CIA to reimburse the

Center for your fees.

not made in the context of a FOIA lawsuit.

As you know, our request to the center was

While the documents

had been released to the Center as part of a settlement agreement

of a FOIA litigation, no litigation ensued or was necessary for

the Center to respona to our request.

The Agency advised

Mr. Lesar and then you that it was concerned for the personal

safety of this

person and his family. The Center chose to seek

services

in responding to our request.

questions.

• Please contact me at (703) 874-3105 if you have any.

Sincerely,

Distribution:

• - Addressee

1 - DGC

1 - C/LD

1 - John Pereira (C/CSI/HRG)

1 - JFK Act Review Lit File

1 - RJE Signer

1 - OGC Registry

NW 53217

DocId: 32404374

Page 2

---

