# docid-32565080

## Page 1

Fi 'D-3/Rev. 12-13-561

FBI

Date:

5/2/62

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2839)

FROM : SAC, PHILADELPHIA (92-441)

SUBJECT:

RUSSELL A. BUFALINO, aka;

AR

SUMMARY

TOM LANNIGAN, Manager, Hotel Forrest, New York City,

on 4/9/62, reported that subject and CAPPY QUIMENTO had

checked into this hotel.

NY 3488-0* advised that while there QUIMENTO made a

telephone call to Pennsylvania, GL 7-7411, and advised he was

in New York overnight with the

subject.

Telephone GL 7-7411, Moosic, Pa., is listed to

Tri-City Textile Company, O1d Forge, Pa., which is operated

by CASPER. "CAPPY" QUIMENTO. Informants in the past have

reported that QUIMENTO is a front for the subject in this

operation.

NY 3488-C* also reported that during same visit

two other telephone calls were made from Hotel Forrest by

QUIMENTO but numbers not obtained. During one call QUIMENTO

"We, all be there sometime this evening," but he did

not say where they would be.

The same informant also reported an

hat on same date at 5:45 p.m. subject and QUIMENTO spoke of

zoing to JULIE's phonetic

and that they wanted to get there

early

to

get things going.

No information obtained to irdicate

location of JULIE's.

Bureau (92-28.

- Philadelphia

392-4410

ITH

cas

(4)

REC- 57

9213839

To well. BX-108

10 MAY & 1962

EBI

-141

Approved:

53

MA

Sent

Spe

Age

at in Charge

_M

Per

74 45739

DocId: 32565080

Page 1

---

