# docid-32301530

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/19/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10278-10365

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-6054-3RD NR 790

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CV

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/02/1964

6

LCN, MEMBERS, BENCH WARRANT, GAMBLING ACT, PDT,

OC ACT, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

Redact

06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45839

Docid: 32301530

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

NU-JO (nEV. 2-22-04)

FBI

Date:

10/2/64

Transmit the following in

(type In plaintext of code)

Via-

AIRTEL

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, CLEVELAND (92-621)

RE:

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO

WEEKLY SUMMARY

OLA COSA NOSTRA

Re Bureau airtel to Cleveland 9/29/64 captioned

"CAVBOMB".

RE g

PAUL, HOLOVATICH, aka "Pinto"

on 9/24/64, HOLOVATICH appeared before Struthers

l, after a defense motio

by Mahoning County Sheriff's deputies on 8/12/64. In this

natter, the judge had taken the defense motion under studi

for a week.

The judge ruled the evidence siezed on 8/12/64

was inadmissable because the bench warrant used was not signed

by the Clerk of court, and his name was only typed in.

• Bureau

(2-92-6054)

7 - Cleveland

1

- 92-477

]

92-718

-

137-1343)

- 92-748

80-216)

92-6054-

NOT RECORDED

150 CT 7

1054 SCARBON COPY

1

SEP/ejs

(12)

Approved puctal Agent in Charge

Sent

M Per

6

71366

OCT 1 21960

NW 45839 DocId: 32301530 Page 2

-62)

ORIGINAL FILED IN 62

---

## Page 3

CV 92-621

the following day, 8/13/64, the Mahoning County Sheriff's

Office secured a search warrant and recovered other evidence,

and again the defense filed a motion to supress the

evidence, at which time the

judge again stated he would have

to study this motion before

ruling.

current attempts are

being made by the Mahoning County

Sheriff's Office, Youngs-

town, to have the evidence presented directly to a grand jury

for indictment.

RE: DOMINICK MALIAMO, aka "Big Dom", Calabrese organizatio leader

CV 544-C advised on 9/24/64, he was approached

by MALIAMO, who asked him if he had been at the Tropies Lounge,

Market Street, Youngstown, recently or if any of the boys

from the C.M.A.S. Club had been there. He stated he told

MALLAMO he had not been to the Tropics and knew of no one from

the Club who had been there,-

nights before.

bon here i thou, he

although he knew that TONY BRUNO,

the present steward of the C.M.A.S. Club had been there two

MALLAMO told

him he was glad to hear that no

one from the Club had been at the Tropics and told CV 544-C

to tell the boys to stay away from the Tropics and not go

there any more because the crowd hanging around there is no

good.

RE: LOCAL GAMBLING AND RACKETEERING

CV 544-C stated that recently JASPER JOSEPH AIELLO, JR.,

aka "Fats"

, appeached JOHN "POPEYE" STEVENS and asked STEVENS

if he was connected with EUGENE MC NAMARA, as they were, taking

MC NAMARA in as a partner and STEVENS told AIELLO he was out

of the gambling business entirely. Then later SIEVENS received

of business and actually be in business,

or in this way he

could get hurt.

PCI, advised that NELLO RONCI, local

the same group as LOU TIBERIO,

and JASPER JOSEPH AIELLO, JR.,

- 2 -

OTHER 4

NW 45839 DocId: 32301530 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CV 92-621

He stated this group is operating with full police

and they have no fears of being raided at any

stated RONCI recently purchased a poolroom

side of the street (next door to the Shang-Ri-La) from BERNIE

ALTSCHULER, another gambling hustler, who is currently

in Florida.

He stated he feels this

group may be banking

their bets at this poolroom, as it is only a short distance

below the Tropics.

He also

stated he has heard that this

group is not using the upstairs of the Tropies for banking

their gambling operation.

CV 559-PC advised that the group hanging around

the Tropics is becoming very powerful in gambling operations

consisting of numbers, horses and sports bets.

He stated

that EUGENE MC NAMARA has broken from his operation with

JOHN BURNICH and went into the gambling business for himself.

MC NAMARA came to the informant one day and asked him if he

wanted to be a 50 per cent partner with him inasmuch as he

has taken over much of informant's former stops.

He stated

he told MC NAMARA that if he wanted to be in the business

he would be

in it 100 per cent, and would split with no one,

and in view of this MC NAMARA could have any business he wanted

and should not even contact him regarding any problems as he

was out entirely.

CV 559-PC stated a few days later he was approached

by AJELLO and AIELLO asked him

"if I would ask you some

questions, would

give me a truthful answer?"

Informant

stated he

told AIELLO that if the questions were such that he

felt he could answer them he would answer truthfully, and

if they were such that he felt he could not answer truth-

fully, he would answer by telling AIELLO "I can't answer that!!

AIELLO said that was fine and better than he expected. AIELLO

then asked the informant if he was in the

gambling business

with EUGENE MC NAMARA, and informat stated

he was not, has

not been, and has no intentions of doing same.

AJELLO stated

he was happy to learn this and happy that CV 559-PC spoke so

truthfully and then said that he and his group (which according

to CV 559-PC

consists of RONALD DAVID CARABBIA, DOMINIC P.

aka "New York

, and possibly others)

are considering taking MC NAMARA into their organization, but

- -3-

NW 45839 DocId: 32301530 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CV 92-621

they wanted to know for sure whether or not CV 559-PC is

connected with MC NAMARA.

He stated he also told AIELLO

that he doesn't want anyone coming to him complaining to

him about MC NAMARA, or how MC NAMARA does business, or

that MC NAMARA is not paying his bills, because he has

nothing to do with MC NAMARA.

ev 559-pe stated this group is attempting to

monopolize the gambling business in Youngstown and apparently

ropes to have full control in the near future.

He stated

they have apparent full police protection, and know the FBI

has the Tropics Lounge under surveillance and for tis reason,

Inasmuch as they congregate so in the open at the Tropics,

they are not banking their business there, and that is

done elsewhere and they have nothing to fear at the Tropics

and would welcome a raid to further inflate themselves in the

eyes of the

public, and their associates, that they cannot

be touched.

CV 278-C-TE advised that JAMES PETRELIA, aka "Dankers",

has closed his 98 Club in downtown Youngstown, and has

placed his liquor license in escrow, inasmuch

as the State

of Ohio would have closed the place for non-payment of taxes.

CV 278-C-TE stated that on the night of 9/27/64,

he received a phone call from "Fats" AIELLO and "Fats"

him he would like to see him.

Informant agreed, and AIELLO,

', (close associate. of

JAMES LICAVOLI, aka Jack White, of Cleveland) picked him up

with AIELLO driving MOCERI's Cadillac. He stated they drove

to a restaurant and drank coffee and spent a good deal of time

talking.

MOCERI asked irformant about his partner (MICKEY SAFFRON,

owner of Saffron Cigarette Service) and informant stated he

las no partner, and he only works for SAFFRON. MOCERI thei

isked informant if he minded if he, MOCERI and AIELLO woul

shake SAFFRON for a couple hundred

dollars, and

informant stated

he wouldn't mind as long as they gave him a "eut" of the

money, and MOCERI promised informant he would give him $50 if

successful. MOCERI also asked informant about the City of

Campbell,

as he had heard that

informant had all of the pool

tables in Campbell on location.

CV 278-C-TE stated this was

not true, that he had none, and he then mentioned to AIELLO

that he was not doing any of the talking, at which time AJELLO

4

NW 45839 DocId: 32301530 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CV 92-621

told him he had heard that he was going to take over all

of the pool tables in Campbell.

Informant stated this

was wrong, but that he wouldn't mind taking them over,

nowever.

he has no money to invest, and told MOCERI and

ATELLO that if they got him the pool tables and the

locations, he would put the

tables on location, and

service them provided there was a "dollar" in it for

him.

CV 278-C-TE stated that both MOCERI and AIELLO in-

dicated

they could work with the informant, and he ther

stated they asked him about unionizing the

inasmuch as

pool table operators,

they are not under union protection at the

present time, although the cigarette vendors and music box

operators area.

Informant stated he told them this would be

a good idea, and asked MOCERI how this would stand with JOE

FONTANA and

in Cleveland, to which MOCERI replied, "they're with us. „Union

LOUIS "BABE" TRISCARO of the Vending Machine

CV 278-C-TE stated this is the same way that AJELLO

began his operation years ago when he started thé National

Cigarette Service in Youngstown.

AIELLO stole every cigarette

machine location he could and when le developed a substantial

route, he used the Teamster's Union in Cleveland to come in

and organize the vendors and in this way the Union told each

operator that he couldn't steal one location from another

operator, and

they had to hold the locations they had as of

that date, and in this way AlELLO was protected.

Both CV 278-C-Te and CV 544-0 expect there will be

some kind of trouble arising out of the activities of the

group at the Tropics.

The Bureau has been previously advised that ANTHONY

DEISANTER of Warren lost his position with the

"organization"

in Warren and Trumbull County because he used "organization"

funds for AIELLO'S

bond after he was apprehended by Bureau.

Agents in Cleveland for UFAP -

ABORTION.

-5 -

NW 45839

DocId: 32301530 Page 6

---

