# docid-32171741

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

vale:

SILSILUI

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10174-10060

RECORD SERIES : DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 89-43-5258

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

6

SEE FBI 62-109060-3967

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/08/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32171741

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 210) Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Director, FBI (62-109060)

Legat, Mesico (89-0) (2)

CONFIDENTIAL

2/19/65

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDEVI

JOIN TLIZGERALD KENNEDY

14/22/63

DALLAS,

TEXAS

MISCELLANEOUS- INFORMAZION CONCERNING

DECLASSIFED BY 9503. RDS/BAT

ENCIOSURES

09. 4: 26-43

TRE: JFK

Enclosed herewith to the Bureau are/thirty (SÓ)

copioa

of an insert rolating

to the captioned case and bearing

the subheading,

"ALLEGATIONS BY GABRIEL LOVIN GUERRERO,

also

COOTE 2S 1abr10L

Lopez+

Barverdor

har canos,

Tat No:

2665614, BalaTio,

Coalutta,

Mezico.

"*a)

BEFEVIN CE

Mexico City lettor to the Bureau datod 2/4/85.

ADMINISCRATIVE

In order that the Dallas offico any

attribute to the

report in which it utilizes the enclosed insert the classification

which is cousidered by it to be desirable, the

Is being subnitted without any classifiention.

A Soparate source of information page

и)

being

mama in they oi the let that moly de jource a will)

in the enclosure and thie source is identified

hereinniter,

On 2/4/65, SANTANA JIMENEZ,

Chies of

Investigations,

Conhulls State Police,

Saltillo, Coahulla,

Mexico,

advised that

GABRIEL LOPEE GUERRERO had no inmigration

,5 ma Burcau (Encs. 30)

papers and the Mexican (le)

85 Blason

Section)

Dallas,

89-431

49.

toxico City

RIN: 1 bla

(7)

89-43-5258

SEARCHED ....

INDEXED

SERIALIZED ..

2 FLED ...

MAX S

1965

FBI - DALLAS

CONFIDINTIAL

crossifled by

2040

Exempt from GD

Category

Date of Declassification INDEFINITU

DocId:32171741

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC

2107 Hotel-

DATE: 11-14-2017

MC 69-0

CONFIDENTIAL

Immgration

authoritlos would

await the outcome os

a check

with United States police agencies to decide on LOPEZ CUERRERO*s

deportation

30120041

aay sentence ho might receivo as & result

of his arrest l

In a Foreign Police Cooperation case.

which we

inmodlately opened under tho name os

CABRIEL LOPEZ GUERRERO

(MC 163-3950), the FBl Identification Divlelon funished LOPEZ

CUBINSO's arrost record which accounts for his allases under

PBE

No: 205951A;

The arrest record

verifies his nonitted arreste

and

shoved hin not to bo vanted by any agency.: This intornation

was furntshed to SANTANA JIMSNER on 2/15/65.

SANTANA JIMENEE

stated that LOPEZ GUERRERE would probably be deportod to the

United States within a weol..

So also stated that

LOPED

GUERRERO

mentioned to him that upon his deportation to the

Ind ted:

he would

1. probably

• retura to his home du

Sesunone, 3928S:

SOURCE

The confidential source

insert 1e

SA ROBERT T. NIBONVITE.

COPIES

erned to in the: enclosed

Two coples of this lester and 25 copies

enclosed

insort are designatod for the Dallas offico in accordance with

existing Bureau instructions.

LEAD

MEXICO CITY oFFIcE

At Cuadalajara,

Jalisco,

Monico

1 .

W111 contact officials o1

the Benjonin Franklin Library

to ascertain 11 LOPEZ GUIRERO dia,

1n fact, work for this

Library on 11/32/63.

CONFIDENTIAL

89-43-5258

DocId: 32171741 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Director, FBI (62-109060)

Lore, late (80) do CONFIDENTIAL

2/19/65

AOSASSLUTION OS PROSEDANI

ODEL TAUGHILE ALIENA

11/22/63

DALLAS,

TEXAS

MISCALLANEOUS- INFORMATION CONCERNING

ENCLOSURES

04-4-26 4 9503 80/012

Enclosed herewith to the Bureau aze thirty (30)

copies of an insert relating to the captloned case and bearing

the subheading,

"ALLEGATIONS BY CABRIEL LOPEZ GUERRERO, A100

knowa as Cabriel James Lopos, Gabriel J. Lopez,

• Salvadox

Martinez, FBI No. 206952A, Saltillo,

Coabuila,

Mexico."

REFERENCE

Mexico City lettor to the Bureau dated 2/4/65.

ADMINISIRATIVE

In order that the Dallas office my attribute to the

report in which it utilizos the encloaed insert the classificatlon

which is considered by it to be desirable, the

enclosed insert

is boing submitted without any classification.

A separato sourco of information page le not being

prepared in view of the fact that only one source is utilized

In the enclosure

this source is identified hereinalter.

On 4/4/65, SANTANA THINEZ, Chief of Inveatigations,

Coshulla State Police,

saltillo, Coahulla, Mexico, advised that

GABRIEL, LOPEZ

GUERRERO had no immigration papere and the lozican

5 - Bureau (Ines. 30)

8-120150n

Section)

89-43-5258

Dallas,

80-43)

SEARCHED

.. INDEXED

2 - Mozico City

SERIALIZED

QUELLED .....

RTN : jha

(7)

MAn & 1S0u

FBI - DALLAS

CONFIDENTIAL

20140

7242

Classified by

Exempt from GD

Date of Declassi

DocId: 32171741 Page 4

Category

ication INDEFINITH

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:\ 11-14-2017

HO 89-8

CONFIDENTIAL

Ingration authorities would

await

the outcons

0s & check

with United States police agencies

to decide on LOPEZ GUERRERO *s

deportetion following any sentence

he night

receive as a result

of his arrest.

In & Foreign Police Cooperation case, which was

fumediatoly opened under the hame of GABRIEL LOPEZ GUERRERO

(MC 163-3990), the

• T'BI Identification Division furished LOPEZ

GUERRERO's arrest record which accounts for his altages under

FBI

No. 265051A,

Tho arrest rocord verifies his adoltted arrests

and

showed him not to be minted by eny agency.

This Intosmation

was furnished to SANTANA JIMENSE on 2/15/65.

SANTANA JIMENEZ

stated that LOPEZ GUERRERU would

probably be deported to the:

United States within a week.

He also statod that LOPIE QUERRERO

mentioned to hin that upon his deportation to the Untted States,

he would probably roturn to his home

An beaunont, Fexas

SOURCE

The confidential source

roferred to in the enclosed

insert 1$ SA ROBERT T. NISCHWITZ.

COPIES

Two copios of this letter and 25 coples of the enclosed

insert are designated for the Dallas office in accordance with

existing Bureau Instructions,

LEAD

MEXICO CITY OPFICE

At Guadalajara, falleco, Mexico

W111 contact oilictate of the Benjania Tranklin Library

to ascertain 11 LOPEZ GUERRERO did,

in fact, worl for this

Librazy on 11/22/63.

CONFIDENTIAL

89-43-5258

DocId: 32171741 Page 5

---

