# docid-32312111

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/10/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10320-10428

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-409763-291

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 08/31/1971

'PAGES:

61

SUBJECTS :

MARK LANE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IC; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

v9.1

NN 46028 DocId: 32312111 Page 1

76

---

## Page 2

- - FD-261 CRes. Ba-aza : 1

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OFORIGIN

DATE

PATIN VESTIGATIVE PERIOD

NEW ORLEANS

8/31/71

8/9-23/71

REPORT MADE BY

SA WAYNE

A.

MILLWARD

CHARACTER OF CASE

MARK LANE, aka

crl/, cmr

SM - MISCELLANEOUS

REFERENCE:

Bureau airtel to Butte, New Orleans, and

New York, 8/3/71.251

1121

is beg 1s

-P-

5-14-97.

INFORMANTS:

DECLASSA

JFKI

The following sources and informants have

information in this investigation:

furnished

NO T-J is a source who is in a position to furnish

information.

CONVIC

AUTO.

FUG

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

Classified

actassina

A CHARGE

7-U-9R PENDING OVER ONE YEAR [JYES CONO

PENDING PROSECUTION

EYES CONO

APPROVED

CORLES MADE:

6/- Bureau (100-409763

- Boston

(100-35752) (RM)

2

- Butte (100-9200)

- Chicago (100-43334)

1

(Info). (RM)

- Cleveland (100-26922)(Info) (RM)

[CONTINATTEN OF COPTES ON COVER PACE B)

2 - New Orleans (100-17689).

Dissem

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fid.

How Fwd.

RAD

ungrion Record of Attached Reporty terru

Notation's,

3#3

ONI OS/ ASSE

WE NOTES

1.17.

17L

IN 376, 1/

14171

K/S

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

100-409743-29/

Tice SEP 9 1971

REC-65.

St-212

REC-10

val

ATT INFORNATION COULANNED

EXCEPT THERE SHOWN

NW 46028 DocId: 32312111 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 100-17689 - nmb

SECRET

information.

NO T-3 is WF 1888-R.

NO T-4 and NO I-5 are sources who are in a position

to furnish information.

NO 1-6 is

WF 2102-S.

NO TH? 1s NY 4505-R

NO I-8 is SF, 3215-K •

NO T-S 15 (NX 6155-R. IJA (4)

NO 1-10, NO T-lls and NO T-12 are sources who are in a

position to furnish information

NO T-13 is SF 3421-5:

NO T-14 IS [LA 5017-5.386 (U

NO T-15 is LA 5343-S.

CONTINUATION OF COPIES FROM COVER PAGE A:

1 - Detroit (100-38908) (Info) (RM)

2 - Los Angeles (100-65476) (RM)

1 - Milwaukee (Info)

1 - New Haven (100-20475) (Info) (RM)

3 - New York (100-117844)

(RM).

1

- San Diego

(Info) (RN:)

2 - San Francisco (RM)

1 - Seattle (Info) (RM)

1 - Tampa (100-1463) (Info) (RM)

1 - WFO. (100-41444) (Info) (RM)

B

COVER PAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

NN 46028 DocId: 32312111 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TASK FORGE

REVIEWED BY

ON

7/118da

RELEASE IN AIML

LEASE IN PART

NO 100-17689 - nmb

SECRET

ADMINISTRATIVE PACE - NON-SYMBOL SOURCES

NO T-1Lis former New Orleans PSI

NO 134-985A

NO T-2 is Chicago PSI SHARON KAY HEWITT.

NO T-4 [is Renseignements Generaux, Surete

Nationale, Paris, France-1e (5)

NO I-5 is Danish Security Service, Copenhagen;

Denmark

NO T-10 is New York PSI

NO T-11 is KEN MULCAHY, U.S. Customs Service,

Cleveland, Ohio.

NO 1-12 is JANES BARRETT, Security Officer,

Fairfield University, Fairfield, Conn.

AL DENIAL

NO T-16

is Set. STAN KOWALSKI, Intelligence Bureau,

etroit, Mich., PD.

NO I-17 is DAVID MUCAR, brother of CAROLINE MUGAR,

Equity Management, Inc., Boston, Mass.

NO T-18 is JOHN STREET, Owner, Graphic Arts

Publishing Co., Boise, Idaho.

NO 1-19 [is Direction de la Surveillance du

Territoire (DST), Paris, France.

NO T-20 is DENZIL AUKER; Manager, Southern Land

Title Co., 521 Dumaine St., New Orleans, La.

The above "y" symbols refer to NOrep of

SA WAYNE A. MILLWARD dated 8/31/71.

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

ONEL

CONFIDE

NTIAL

NN 46028 DocId: 32312111 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NO 100-17689 - nmb

CEORGE LANE stated that it was his distinct

impression from his contact with MARK LANE that MARK LANE

is an agitator who is interested in stirring up racial

disturbances, particularly in the Arcadia and Imnokalee,

Florida, areas. GEORGE LANE stated he has brought the above

information to the attention of DeSoto County Sheriff

FRANK CLINE, Arcadia, Florida.

GEORGE and VIRGINIA LANE advised that during

their meeting with MARK LANE and CAROLYN MUGAR, they

received the very definite impression that MARK LANE and

MUCAR are romantically involved, although MUGAR appears

much younger than MARK LANE. MUGAR appears to be a "wild,

'hippie'" type, and during conversation she indicated that

she assists MARK LANE as a photographer.

GEORGE and VIRGINIA LANE advised that besides the

interest which MARK LANE and MUGAR evidenced in the

RICHARDSON case, they also appeared very interested

in any

trouble spots in Florida, such as Negro unrest and

mistreatment of Indians.

On October 29, 1969, a confidential source abroad

advised that during the month of October, 1969, an organization

known as the "English Language Committee"

was created in Paris,

France, with the objective of opposing the continuation of

the war in Viet

nam, as well as the following additional

objectives: (S)

2 Opposition to nuclear armament;

Opposition to American imperialism;

(s)

3)

4)

Action in favor of recognizing Communist China

Activity against racism in the United States

and throughout the world. (B

Source further stated that during a meeting held

on October 15, 1969, at the American Center for Students and

Artists, 261 Boulevard Raspail, Paris, France, an initial

impetus was given to the English Languaze Committee by (s)

SECRET

NW. 46028 DocId: 32312111 Page 5

---

## Page 6

classifi

NO 100-17689 - nmb

MARK LANE, a lawyer and American writer (5)

•dated 9-4-81

M-85. (1nav99a)

NO T-4

($)

[october 29, 1969 4U

Another Government agency which

conducts

investigations abroad: advised

that on crised

November

14, 1969, MARK LANE was the main speaker at a

that

teach-in against the war in Vietnam held at the University

of Munich, Munich, Germany. This meeting was attended by

400-600 individuals, and in his speech LANE likened the

atrocities of the Nazis at Dachau, which he had visited, to.

those allegedly committed in Vietnam by American soldiers

and South Vietnamese supported by American soldiers. LANE

played a tape-recorded interview with an American deserter,

the grandson of General JOSEPH STILWELL. LANE also

discussed alleged resistance within the U.S. Army to the

war in Vietnam, claiming that the "brass" was going to

extremes to stifle dissent.. LANE asked his German audience.

to assist those soldiers who want to desert or fight the

Army "brass" from within. Finally, he declared that he was

returning to the United States within a month, although he

reseed possibly

prosecution for providing assistance to

deserters..

On December 3, 1969, a second confidental source

abroad furnished the following information concerning

MARK LANE: (5)

The Communist-front organization "International

Association of Democratic Lawyers" (IADL) held its Sth Congress

in Budapest during the period March 30-April 3, 1964,

attended inter alia

by a delegation from

the Danish Section

of the IADL.

DENmARk-named JORCENACe SEe de erate washe Copenhssen lanyer

collected some material concerning the assassination ot

President KENNEDY. This material was to be used for a

draft resolution to the effect that the Congress

advocate unbiased inquiries into the circumstances surroun-

ding the assassination and the sequel to it. (5)

14

SECRET

NW. 46028 DocId: 32312111 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

NO 100-17689 - nmb

At the Congress, JORGEN JACOBSEN met the American

lawyer MARK LANE, who in his capacity of chairman of the

"Citizens' Committee of Inquiry" was working on an

independent inquiry into the murder, having,

confidence in

the material prepared by the Dallas

Police. (5)

Between JORGEN JACOBSEN and MARK LANE cooperation

was established on this draft resolution, which, incidentally,

was adopted by the Congress.

This cooperation was developed

further, and led to the establishment in Denmark of a so-

called

"Mark Lane Committee" for the purpose of collecting

all available information on the assassination of the

President and informing the public of any hushed-up or

suppressed details concerning the murder. (S

Following the Congress, however, MARK LANE himself

went to Denmark, where, in the "Lawyers'

Debating Club,"

the "Students'

Association" in Copenhagen, and the "Students'

Society" in Arhus, he told about his inquiries so far, aiming

at proving that reactionary, fascist circles were behind

the

assassination of President KENNEDY. (S)

The Danish "Mark Lane Committee," which may be

considered

as long since dissolved, comprised a total of 16

individuals; the founder, JORGEN JACOBSEN, is known as a

Communist,

whereas the others mainly belonged to cultural,

the sher

conniving literary aircles. However, the activities of the

s inquiries in the

United States, failed to bring forth any sensational

disclosures.

The work of the American authorities on the

case was, on the other hand, criticized and the

the liarren commission was denounced as a fraud. (ge of

In connectin with the references of the Danish

press to this matter, in November, 1964, the "Berlingske

Tidende" published an article, the contents of which MARK LANE

considered defamatory:

The result was a libel action against

the newspaper, and on November 11, 1965, the High Court found

the statements

of the paper ill-founded. The responsible(s)

15:

SECRET

HW

46028 DocId: 32312111 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

NO 100-17689 - nmb

editor was sentenced to pay 2500 D.kr. costs, whereas a

claim for damages to the amount of no less that 5000 D.kr.

was rejected.

In

this case JORGEN JACOBSEN acted as counsel

fOr MARK LANE: (5)

In 1966, MARK LANE, who in the meantime had

married a Dane and temporarily settled in Denmark, published

a book entitled Rush to Judgment, the substance of which is

that the murder of the President was not the work of a single

individual, but a conspiracy. Based on this book, a

LANE

opinion of the events in Dallas on Vovember 22, 1963. (5))

MARK LANE, who is currently residing in the

United States, does not appear to have attracted notice in

connection with the activities displayed in Denmark to

assist American deserters, and so far, no connection was

noted between him and

Danish deserters' committees.

In

July, 1968, however, an IADL meeting took place in Grenoble,

France; an item on the agenda of this meeting concerned the

legal basis of refusing to take part in wars of aggression.

The identities of the participants of this meeting are not

known, but the fact that the IADL dealt with the subject and

that the two former IADL delegates are personally acquainted

ard associated with this Communist front organization seems

to indicate that, some time or other, the idea arose between

them to bring American deserters to Denmark in order to

confront the authorities of a NATO country with a congre

request for political asylum for American deserters. (S

- BORN 4-19.49 CLever ANd 8110078

Th

case

the two deserter American

TED PRICE and REGINALD ALDERTON

, which caused so much

comment in the press,

light of this.

should undoubtedly be regarded in the

Escorted by MARK LANE, PRICE and ALDERTON

arrived in Denmark by air from France on Cetober 12, 1969,

and immediately on arrival in the airport requested

political

asylum in Denmark.

On arrival, the two deserters were, (S)

Born 2-22.42 HARVANd ICH

-6

NW 46028 DocId: 32312111 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECHET

NO 100-17689 - nmb

DENMARK

incidentally, met by the chairman

of the

"Danish

• Committee

for Aid to US Deserters," KNUD JENSEN, with whom they stayed.

JORGEN JACOBSEN handled their interests.

MARK LANE

indicated to the press that this was a deliberate and planned

attempt to obtain political asylum in Denmark for American

deserters, and he added that he had filmed the whole trip and

the sequence of events up until then for the purpose of

showing the film in the United States

as a feature of the

campaign against the war in Vietnam 5)

On November 11, 1969, the Danish Minister of

Justice refused the request for political asylum of both the

deserters

in question.(S

REGINALD RAY ALDERTON, born February 27, 1947, in

Harvard, Illinois, left Denmark immediately, and on

November 13, 1969, he applied for political asylum in

Sweden. (5)

TED HAGE PRICE, born April 19, 1949, in Cleveland,

Ohio, was granted temporary residence permit for six months

in Denmark while it is being decided whether he may return

to France. (S)

NO T-5

December 3, 1969

17

SEGRET

NW 46028 DocId: 32312111 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

NO 100-17689 - crl

headquarters and then to the Staff Judge Advocate General where

a meeting with the Base Commander determined. that LANE could

not distribute the "Helping Hand" on the Air force Base and

requested that he retrieve those already distributed.

On July 14, 1971, MARK LANE did not return to

the

Mountain Home Air Force

Base and no issues of the

"Helping Hand"

were distributed on the base. The July 14, 1971 issue of the

"Idaho Daily Statesnan," Boise, Idaho, quoted Wing Commander

Colonel HENRY L. WARREN, Mountain Home Air Force Base as

refusing permission io distribute the "Helping Hand" because

it advocated resistance to authority and, therefore, was a

danger to discipline, loyalty, and morale, a violation of Air

Force regulations.

At approximately 6:00 a.m., August 7, 1971, 54 marchers

including 34 GIs and women Air Force

service ladies

from the

Mountain Home Air Force Base, Mountain Home, Idaho, began a

march of approximately 10 miles across the

desert to Boise,

Idaho.

The march was led by MARK LANE and

the marchers arrived

in Boise, Idaho, at 11:00 a.m. on August 8, 1971 where they

attended

a church service at Emanuel Methodist Church, Boise,

Idaho.. At 12:00 noon, on

the same date,

approximately 30 of

the

marchers then

assembled at

the world headquarters of the

Morrison-Khuosen Construction Company builing,

400 Broadway

Avenue, Boise

Idahe, where about 100 spectators and marchers

heard LARRIIKNUDSEN; adopted

grand-son of the founder of the

company, make

a speech on the desire for peace.

The marchers

then raised three home-made flags bearing the words "Bring 'Em

Home" on the Morrison-Knudsen flagpoles at that site.

A third confidential source abroad advised that MARK

LANE of New York City was

in Paris, France, during the period

from March? to March 24, 1971.

During his visit, LANE made

a number of contacts with Vietnamese revolutionary organizations

and individuals of the far

left

with whon he discussed prob

lers of the war in Vietnam

32

NN 46028 DocId: 32312111 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

NO 100-17689 - crl, nmb

ALL FRANCE

ith the assistance of MARY-JO VAN INGEN, LANE met

with ALAr

RIVINE

leager of the Communist League

VAN INGEN

is known to French authorities as ? French National and member

of the Fourth

Inter

national European Trotskyist Organization,

who was in

Brussels!

Pelgiun, on November 21 and 22, 1970 on

the occasi

thẻ

international meeting of European revolution-

aries.

The meeting, between LANE and KRIVINE particularly

dealt

with the future collaboration between the Communist

League and JANE FONDA; who reportedly, is very much under

LANE'S

influence. LANE is said to have contributed 500 francs

to the

Cormunist League.

While in Paris, LANE also met with

FRANCE FRANCOIS

cutionary

MAspERO, who specialices in the publishing of revo-

books

with

regard to having one of his books.

published

(C)

NO T-19

classiful ser letter

May 19, 1971

SPRTAP/TAC

dated 94.85.

On August 23, 1971, another Government agency which

1-25-85.

conducts investigations abroad furnished the following

information:

(U)

During the

summer of 1971, MARK LANE visited Paris,

France, while on his way to Italy.

LANE was believed to be en

route to Bologna, Italy, to attend the national conference of

Lotta Continua, an Italian Marxist-Leninist group, which was

scheduled for July 24-25, 1971

(Ru)

The source stated that LANE

currently heads

"Helping Hand," a servicemen's underground newspaper in Utah

which is directed toward personnel of an Air Force base in

that state.

LANE indicated that he is very encouraged by the

response "Helping Hanu" has received, and stated that he hoped

to convince the servicemen on the base to sabotage their work,

which, according to LANE, is very specialized and consists in

part of helping lay out homb runs in South Vietnam.

As an

example of a method of sabotage, LANE proposed altering the

bomb run layouts by placing pencil marks slightly off

correct positions (#)Ul)

their

NW. 46028 DocId: 32312111 Page 11

---

