# docid-32305594

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/6/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10288-10224

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3267-1018

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 45945 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DODGE, HAROLD F.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/28/1969

22

JRO, RES, EMP, PROSECUTION, REL, BANK ACCOUNT,

AMUSEMENT PLACES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: *04/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45945. DocId:32305594

Page 1

---

## Page 2

+=15

Fi-263. (Rev. 12719-675

FEDERAL

QUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

LOS ANGELES

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

LOS ANGELES

DATE

4/28/69

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/11/69:=4/22/69

JOHN ROSELLI

HAROLD F. DODGE

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

đm h

REFERENCE:

Report of SA HAROLD F. DODGE dated 2/10/69

at Los Angeles.

-

P

ADMINISTRATIVE

In April 1968, ROSELLI approached San Dieg, Informant

SD 1054-C-TE and ordered this informant and ALADENA

"JIMMY

FRATIANNO to kill

ALL LNPOGCIATION CONTAINED

1BC3I0LS DOSSIFIED

OTHERWISE

CONVIC.

AUTO

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

[X] NONE

RECOVERIES

APPROVES

COPIESM

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau (92-3267)

USA, Los Angeles

(ATTN:: Office of Special

Prosecution)

2 - Los Angeles (92-113)

Dissemination, Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date F'wd.

How Fid.

By

CE. AAG, Criminal Divtston,

Organized Crime and Racketeering

seat, ram.

257

CONES

70 MAY 8

1969

COVER PAGE

NW 45945 DooId: 32305594

Page 2

JFK Law 10(a)2

9994

Classied by SPensefel

Declassiy on DADS JAIL)

ACQUIT-

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR EYES LINO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-326711018

REC 43

5

1969

FX,103

NINES

STAT.

SECT.

tha

5-7-69

GPO: 1965 0 - 299-885

---

## Page 3

LA 92-113

Persuant to this order the San Diego Informant

and FRATIANNO made a trip to Las Vegas, endeavoring to

locate SEACH, to carry out this contract to kill but were

unable to locate SEACH, Inasmuch as the Los Angeles Office

had placed SEACH at an address unknown to these two men,

in the Los Angeles area.

On 7/10/68, SD 1064 advised that he had recently

contacted ROSELLI telephonically and asked ROSELLI 1f he

wanted the

informant to make any further effort in regards

to killing GEORGE SEACH. ROSELLI told informant that it

normant the saras

was too late to do anything now and there will be time in

the future.. Informant interpreted these remarks to mean

no action would be taken against SEACH at this time, but a

revenge murder would be arranged sometime in the future.

go back to New York to explain to the LUCHESE family

why they have been unsuccessful in getting the injunction lifted

on their investment in Panguingui card playing. in Los

Angeles.

ROSELLI said he was going to tell them that

their suspicions of him using their $5,000 subsidy

payment on his

own behalf are not true.

In this connection, SD 1064 advised in July

1968 that JOE LI MANDRI stated that attempts

to reopen

card gambling casinos, dealing with Panguingüi, In the

Los Angeles area have failed and he does not expect to

Informant stated the New York

in addition to this, they have been paying a fee of

$5,000 to BEN TIETELBAUM (a gambler and a defendant in

the Friars Club case, In an attempt to get the injunction lifted.

The New York

"family

now feels

that TIETELBAUM has been

doing nothing and spending this $5,000 monthly fee with

ROSELLI. NICK LICATA, "Boss" of the Los Angeles La Cosa

Nostra (LCN). family,

stated he had questioned ROSELLI

about this and ROSELLI denied ever receiving any money

from TIETELBAUM.

B

NW 45945 DooId: 32305594 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA 92-113

LA 4476-C-TE, an attorney in the Los Angeles

area, for the past several months has been in frequent

contact with JOHN ROSELLI. ROSELLI has mentioned to

this informant his need to make money and was willing

to do this on a partnership basis with the informant.

On one occasion, ROSELLI was planning to invest

$25,000 in a business which serviced Cadillac automobiles.

At one time he planned to employ his nephew, PHILLIP SACCO,

in this venture.

To date this business has not materialized.

Another plan to make money was for ROSELLI and

informant to obtain the right to make teamster loans on

the West Coast.

ROSELLI thereafter telephonically intro-

duced informant to Florida attorney, FRANK RAGANO, Who

according to ROSELLI Is an Influential attorney close

to the teamsters and to other

"friends of. his

expressed an Interest in assisting ROSELLI in this venture.

ROSELLI made arrangements for informant to

fly to Miami during the weekend of 3/28-30/69, and

informant stayed at the Sheraton-Four Ambassadors Hotel,.

where a reservation was made by RAGANO.

Upon arrival in Miami, RAGANO introduced

"informant to LCN

"Boss"

SANTO TRAFFICANTE and for the

next two days informant spent almost all of his time

in the company of REGANO and TRAFFICANTE. The main

topic of discussion during this period concerned

teamster loans and labor management negotiation, which

information and ROSELLI hoped to obtain on the West Coast:

RAGANO and TRAFFICANTE agreed to be partners with

ROSELLI and Informant in this venture...

RAGANO was to

proceed to Lewisberg Prison and discuss this venture with

former teamster union obss JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA.

meeting with JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA, RAGANO was to fly to the

West Coast to introduce teamster official FRANK MATULA

to ROSELLI and the informant and to make plans for

obatining teamster loans.

=.C

CONF

45945 DooId: 32305594 Page 4

---

## Page 5

JFK Act 6 (4)

CON

IA 92-113

TRAFFICANTE and RAGANO plan to find out who

is the backer behind SIDNEY KORSHAK, a Los Angeles attorney,

who currently has the dispersing of teamster loans and to

move KORSHAK out of the picture.

Because of the sensitivity of informant's

information, no investigation

is being requested of

other offices.at the present time and this matter is

being followed by the informant.

The records of the Fidelity Bank were made avail-

able by DORIS SCHMIDT and CAROLE BOWEN of the Statement Depart-

ment of this bank.

INFORMANTS

SOURCE

IA T-1

LA T-2:

LA T-3

LA T-4

LA T-5

LA T-6

LOCATION

LA 4476-C-TE

LA 4476-C-TE

LA 4476-C-TE

LA 4129-C

[WE 963-5]8X

Former PCI

LA T-7

LA T-8

Former FBI Agent A.K. LAW,

who 1s currently employed in

the Investigation Division

of Hughes Air Craft Company,

Culver City, Califomia

SD 1064-C-TE

LEADS

LOS ANGELES

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA: (1) WIll continue to

conduct investigation concerning activities of JOHN ROSELLI.

(2) WIll follow prosecution presently pending

against ROSELLI.

COME DE

AL

- D*

COVER PAGE

NW 45945 DooId: 32305594 Page 5

---

