# docid-32327320

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/5/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90062-10018

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-85082-29

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 03/09/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

MARVIN KANTOR

REMBERT CAVEN ALLEY JR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

j: DocId: 32327320

13

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Beleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES GO

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-85082)

DATE:

3/9/61

SECRET

SAC, CHICAGO (105-7568)

REMBERT CAVEN

ALLEY, JR.

IS - R - DENMARK

ALL INFORMATION

CORTANtAS

NEXEM IS VOGLASE FIES

EXCEPT WACRE SHOW

11-81-94

Classified by S

B MACISR

Declassify Gita

CADK

(JFIL)

Rerep Of SA LOREN G. ADAMS dated and captioned

as above at Chicago.

Bureau authority is requested to interview the

CIA

DECLACOIOCETION AND/OR

RELEASE A INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 10-9-9

SLD/HSR

subject in accordance with existing instructions relating

to interviews with security subjects.

Care will be exercised

to protect the original source in this matter.

No direct

close to the

The fact that we are aware of the contact.

The interview

will

be conducted in a manner so that the

subject will

volunteer the details of the contact 2)

If the subject is cooperative, no affirmative is

taken during the initial interview lo direct

23ED BY

DECLASSIFY OI

his activities! butka separate communication will be directed

to the Bureau setting forth the results of the interviewrand

5669-83098-56K

requesting authority to recontact the subject as a potential

security informant or double agent. (8)(5)

1. Subject resides at 1415 Hudson Avenue, Chicago,:

Illinois, is an architect, employed as Project Manager by

Donald Pyskacek Architects, 55 East Washington Avenue, Chicago,

Illinois.

He is an American citizen and was born 10/30/32

at Erier,

Pennsylvania.

?.

Subject is single.

112.

On 10/29/59

IT KHAILOV ICH ABARCHAI, subtect a contacted by say stAy.

Copenhagen.S..

who' is reported as probably a cadrels

worker of the KGB, & Residency in Copenhagen. VABARCHALINE

indicated he and ALLEY would go to a quiet spot where they

not go to gu

REC- 68-

- Bureau (RM)

- Chicago

FP..

: MAR 1% 1967

3/2161

LGA: 1f1

SECRET

3/20/14

DocId: 32327320 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 105-7568

SECRET

could talk in peace.

They met at 8 P.M., 10/29/59, at Town

Hall Square, Copenhagen, and proceeded to a small cafe where

ABARCHALINE obviously gave ALLEY some books and periodicals.

ALLEY again met with ABARCHALINE on 11/5 and 16/59

at

Copenhagen, Denmark.

On 11/5/59 ALLEY indicated he/would

introduce. ABARCHALINE tO KANTOR, identified as MARVIN KANTOR,

a United States citizen studying in Europe, and it was noted

that MARVIN KANTOR was present during a part of the time con-

sumed by the latter two meetings..

On the 11/5/59 date,

ABARCHALINE and ALLEY visited the latter's home and ABARCHALINE

asain apparently gate AlLEY a book (5)

Investigation fails to indicate that subject

has ever engaged or been suspected of engaging in any.sub-

versive activity other than the implications of activity

described in Item 3.

Subject is not married.

Current investigation

has revealed no subversive activity on the part of his parents.

his potentialin

ABARCHALIN As a resultof subject's contacts with

the District Intelligence Office, Fourth Naval G

District, Pniladelphia, Pennsylvania, has expressed an interest

in this matter since subject's father is employed by the

General Electric Company, Erie, Pennsylvania, with access

to

secret material. It is desirable that the allegations

against subject should be resolved so that the matter of

his father may be appropriately dealt with by Naval authori-

ties.

There is no information available to indicate the

undesirability of this interview.

This interview is expected to develop detailed

information/regarding the contacts of ALLEY by a Soviet Embassy]s)

employee at openhagen, Denmark, and the purposes of such a

contacts.It is expected also

Do also k hat

that subject's potential as

informant or double agent will become known as a result of

this interview

- 2..

SECRE 110585082-29

DocId: 32327320

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATE? 11-14-2017

SECRET

CG 105-7568

9. Approach to the subject will be on the basis

that it is known that he had traveled in Western Europe and

the Scandanavian countries during 1959 and 1960 and to

determine if, during his travels or residence abroad, he was

approached by any individuals who were employees or citizens

of Soviet or satellite countries. SIt will be pointed out to

the subject that other individuals who have traveled and

resided in Europe have been contacted by such persons.

It

is felt that such an approach is general, yet sufficiently

specific to allow

subject to recall contacts with citizens of

other countries and offer him the opportunity to volunteer the

details of the contacts which are the basis for this investigation

-ZECHSECRET

DocId: 32327320

Page 4

---

