# docid-32346930

## Page 1

Date: 12/08/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10063-10378

RECORD

SERIES

: JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM

FBI, DIRECTOR

TO

: PRESIDENT; SEC STATE; CIA; ETC

TITLE : STUDENT AGITATIONAL AND ANTIWAR ACTIVITIES IN THE

UNITED

STATES.

DATE : 09/29/1969

PAGES

: 11

SUBJECTS

:

SDS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

1B

POSTPONED IN EULE

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS CAROL E183 ORS O1: 0 SOLA BE DRIED -

- 2/16/94; ARRB DENIED IN FULL

5 PAGES & ONE

• THE SIX-PAGE

COPY HAS 2 DIFFERENT FORMATTED FIRST PAGES A

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10063-10378

HH 50529

DocId: 32346930

Page 1

---

## Page 2

2ES6 PM 9-29-69 ISI

PP. IOR IT Y

TO: THE PRESIDENT 64

TO:

TO:

THE VICE PRESIDENT, 'ATTENTION:

SECRETARY OF STATE

MP.. KENT. B.

CRANES

TO:

DIRECTOR, CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEFCIA

TO:

DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BS

TO: DEPARIMENT OF THE ARMY. C4

TO: DEPAPIHENT OF THE AIR FORCE

.04

TO:

U.S. SECRET SERVICE, ATTENTION: PID

IO: INE ATIORNEY GENERAL (BY MESSENGER)

FROM :

DIRECTOR, FBI

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

UNCLASSIFIED

STUDENT ACITATIONAL AND ANTIVAR ACTIVITY IN THE

WITED

STATES.

29SEP59W54593

THERE IS SET OUT BELOW THE HIGHLIGKTS OF CURRENI STUDENT

SECRET

REVIEWED BY FBIJFK TASK FORCE

ON

116

194 %

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL (NAR)

7165

HH 50529

DocId: 32346930 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CLASSiFIED MESSAGE.

SECRET

iN

545%3

PAGE

ACITATIONAL 432 ANTIWAR

ACTIVITY IN THE UNITED SIATES.

SEITATION CONTINUED AT CHICACO, ILLINOIS, TO PROTEST THE

TRIALS OF THE EIGHT INDIVIDUALS INDICTED FOR THEIR ACTIVITIES DURING

INE DEMOCRATIC MATIONAL CONVENTION. ON SEPTEMBER TWENTY SIX

LAST, STUDENTS FOR A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY (SDS) LEADERS ADDRESSED

APPROX IIATELY ONE HUNDRED INDIVIDUALS CATHERED OUTSIDE THE COURIHOUS:

BERNARD INE DOURN, AN SOS LEADER, WAS ARRESTED ON A PRIOR CHARGE OF

ASSAULT. ON SEPTEMBER TWENTY SEVEN LAST, TWENTY INDIVIDUALS APPEAREE

AT INE COURIMOUSE, BUT HELD NO DEMONSIRAI ION

THE NEW ENGLAND COMMITICE FOR MONVIOLENT ACT ION SPONSORED A

DIMONSTRATION AT INE GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION, GRCTOR,

COMICTICIT, ON SEPTENDER TIENTY SEVEN LAST DURING A VISIT TO INE

ARCA BY THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE. THE FIFTY SIX DEMONSIRATORS

DISTRISITED LEAFLETS LISTING INDIVIDUALS FROM CONNECTICUT WHO HAVE

SEEN KILLED IN VIEINAN.

WOKEN STRIKE FOR PEACE (USP) PLANS IO DEMONSTRATE AT THE SHORENA

HOTEL, WASHINGION, D. CO, ON OCTOSER NINE NEXT WHEN MRS. MICHARD

HIKON ADDRESSES THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF JEWISH WOMEN. WSP IS

PREPARING AN ANTIWAR TELEGRAM WHICK IT HOPES TO DELIVER TO

MPS. NIXON AT THE SHOREMAN HOTEL. COPIES OF THE TELEGRAM WILL BE

DISTRIBUTED IO INDIVIDUALS ATTENDING THE MEETING.*

SIX HUNDRED INDIVIDUALS, INCLUDING

MEMBERS OF THE YOUNG SOCIALIS.

ALLIANCE, SDS, AND IHE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE (SOLC

DEMCISTRATED AT ATLANTA, GEORGIA, Oi SEPTEMBER TWENIY SEVEN LASI IO

PROTESI ALLEGED POLICE BRUTALITY. THE PRINCIPAL SPEAKER. WAS HOSEA

WILLIANS, A LEADER OF THE SOLC. SPEAKERS DEMANDED THE REMOVAL OF THE

CHIEF OF POLICE.

SILKE!

HH 50529 DocId: 32346930 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CLASSIF FEE MESSAGE

SECRET

-INS 155%

FACE 3

2400 TUAJE

SUS SPONSOREO & GEICUSTRATION CITING A FACULTY NERTINE AT

HARVAD UNIVERSITY, CAMERICEO, MASSACHUSETTS, GI SOOTERGER THENTY SIX

LAST IO PROTESI "PROJECI CAI," A FLAN IO DEVELOP A SCIZICE DATA

MAHLACEMENT SYSTE: AT UNIVERSITIES IN THE BOSTÓN AREA. SPEAKERS

CRITICIZED THE WAR IN VIETNAY AND CLAINED THAI THIS PROJECT IS

LINKED TO IT.

SS SPONSORED A DEMONSTRATION IN INE VICINITY OF WAYNE STATE

UNIVERSITY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN, ON SEPTEMEEP. TWENTY SEVEN LAST.

SPEAKORS SUPPORTED NORTH VIBINAN AND CONDEMNED THE WAITED SIATES

"RACIST IMPERIALIST SOCISTY." FOLLOWING IME SPEECHES, THE

DEMONSTRATORS BIGAN RUNNING IMPOUGH NEARBY STREETS. • NINE OF THEM

WERE ARRESTED AND SIVEN POLICE OFFICERS WERE INJURED.

IT WAS PRIVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT ONE HUNDRED DEMONSTRATORS WERE

ARRESTED ON SEPTEMBER IVENTY FIVE LAST DURING A SII-IN AT IWE

IN IVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, ANX ARDOR, NICHICAN. ON SEPTEMBEP. TWENTY

SIX LAST, SES SPONSORED A RALLY IO PROTEST INE ARRESIS. THE RALLY

WAS ADDRESSED BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY WHO STATED THAT

WNIVERSITY AUTHORITIES WILL NOT MEET WIIN THE DERONSIRAIORS UNDE?

CONDITIONS CE DURESS. SES IS CITEMPTING TO PROMOTE A STUDENT STRIKE.

ILE TWIN CITY DRAFI INFORMATION CENTER SPONSORED A DEMON -

SIRATION AI SI. PAUL, MINNESOIA, ON SEPIEMBER TWENTY SIX LAST

DURING A VISII IO THAT CITY BY GENERAL WILLIAM C. WESTMORELAND.

END PAGE THREE

SECRET

HH 50529 DocId: 32346930 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE •

SECRET

in 54543

FACE _4

PACE FOUR

UNCLASS

THE CEMONSIRATORS DISTRIDUTES LITERATURE CENSORING GENERAL

WE STORELAND AND DENOUNCING THE WAR IN VIBITAN.

:IT WAS PESVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT INE ASSOCIATION OF BLACK

COLLEGIANS WAS SUSPENDED AT FOREST PARK COLIUNITY COLLEGE,

SI.. LEUIS, MISSOURI, FOLLOWING DISTUPT IVE DEMONSTRAT IONS. THE SCHOOL

HAS BEEN CLOSED SINCE THAT TIIE AND THE ASSOCIATION CONTINUED ITS

AGITATION DEMANDING THAT ADDITIONAL DEGRO FACULTY HERDERS BE HIRED,

THAI THE ASSOCIATION BE GIVEN A WORKROO, AND THEE IT BE REINSTATED.

ON SEPTENDER TWENTY SIN LAST, TUE PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVIPSITY

REINSTATED THE ASSOCIATION AND SCHOOL RECPENED TODAY.

THE WORKER STUDENT ALLIANCE SUSAD FACIION OF SDS, WHICH IS

CONTROLLED PY THE PROCRESSIVE LABOR PARTY, SPONSOREE AN ANTIVAR

DEMONSATION AT NEW YORK CITY ON SEPTEMBER TWENTY SEVEN LAST.

THE TWO HUMORED DEMONSTRATORS CAPRISO SIGNS DEMANDINE IHAT INE

UNITED STATES INNED IATELY WITHDRAW FROM VIEINAM. THE DEMONSTRATION

WAS DICTIPIED SY TUENTY DEMOUSTRATORS FROM THE STUDENT LISERATION

FRONT CARRYING A BANNER DEMANDING INE UNITED STATES GET OUT OF

VIETHAM LUE CARING SUPPORT FOR INE DEMONSTRATIONS AT CHICAGO,

ILLINOIS, OCTOBER EIGHT THROUGH ELEVEN NEXT. POLICE KEPT THE

OPPOSING ERCUPS APARI. WSA SPEAKERS STATED INAT IT WILL NOT

SUPPORT INE OCTOBER DEMOWSTRATIONS IN CHICACO AS THE NATIONAL

STRICE FACTION CE SOS WANTS VIOLENCE.

END PACE FOUR

SECRET

HH 50529

DocId: 32346930 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

iN : 545% 3

PAGE S

PACE FIVE

TWO HUNCHED IND MISUALS SONOMSTRA739 11 TAO VISITY 07 THE

FARGO, MORTH DEROTA, CIVIC AUCITORIUE OH THE EVENING OF SEPTEMBER

THENTY GEVE: LAST DURING A SPEECH BY THE VICE PRESIDENT. THE DEMONT

STRATORS RELAINED IN INE VICINITY OF THE CIVIC AUDITORIU: FOR

SEVERAL HOURS READING THE NAMES OF INDIVIDUALS KILLED IN VIETNAM.

0: SEPTENEER TWENTY SIX LAST, ONE HUNDRED INDIVIDUALS WERE.

PRESENT DURING THE SENIENCINE OF AN IDIVIELAL AT SAY JUAN, PUERTO

RICO, FOR A VIOLATIO: OT THE SELECTIVE SERVICE ACI. ..UPON LEAVINE

INE COURTHOUSE, THE DEMONSTRAIORS PROCEDED TO IHE UNIVERSITY CF

PUERTO RICO WHERE THREE HUNDRED FIFTY OF THEM GATHERED AT THE RESERVE

OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS CROICS BUILDINE. SEVERAL OF THE DEMONT

STRATORS ENTERED INE ROIC BUILDING, SCATTERED FILES, DESTROYED PAPERS,

AND SET SEVERAL FIRES. SEVERAL FIREMEN WERE INJURED BY ROCKS THROWN

BY THE DEMOUSTRATORS. AN AMERICAN FLAG WAS BURNED DUPING THE

DEMOUSTRATION. DAMAGES TO INE ROTC SUILDING AND EQUIPMENT

ARE ESTATED AI TWENTY. THOUSAND DOLLARS.

SOS DEMONSTRATED ON SEPTEMBER IWENTY SEVEN LAST AT SEATTLE,

WASHINGTON. THE TWENTY DEMONSTRAIORS CARRIED A VIEI CONG FLAG AND.

SPRAYED BUILDINGS WITH RED AND BLUE PAINT. QUE DEMONSIRATOR WAS

ARRESIED.

END PAGE, FIVE 3T

SECRET

HH 50529 DocId: 32346930 Page 6

---

## Page 7

2526 PE S-29-69 ITT

IT. IOR IT Y

TO :

IHE PRESIDENT

I0:

THE VICE PRESIDENT, ATTENIIO":

ii. KENI-3. CRANE

TO :

SECRETARY OF STATE

TO:

DIRECIOR, CENTRALF INTELLIGENCE AGENCYT.4.:

TO:

DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

B5.

TO: DEPARTHEN OF THE ARMY PL

TO: DEPAPIWENT OF THE AIR FORCE 04

TO :

U.S. SECRET SERVICE, ATTENTION: PI

IO: INE ATIORNEY GENERAL (BY MESSENGER)

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION.TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

UNCLASSIFIED

SILDEUT AGITATIONAL AND ANTIVAR ACTIVITY IN THE

WITED SISTES.

29 SEPS9#54593

THERE IS SET OUT BELOW THE HICHLIGHTS OF CURRENT STUDENT

SECRET

Dup. 0F 1165

HH 50529

DocId: 32346930

Page 7

---

## Page 8

CABLE SECEETAPIAT DISSEMINATION

PERSON/UNIT COTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

O ISSUED

• SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

QROUP&

(Wher FIlled In)

DEGLASSETICATTON

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

1M06X: Dres

CRASSIFYTO

О но

FILE

но.

TOMER

Ories Rio

ILE

40..

RETUNA TO

@ROUTING ANO/OR AITIALS- SEEN BY

BY:

DISSEM BY

ACTION UNIT

C/CI3

ACTION NO.

PER

13L

FILE. VR.

D/SECHR # CS/eE

WE6 P: 9-29-69 THI

PRIOR IT Y

TO: IHE PRESIDENT 64

IU: INE VICE PRESIDENT, ATTENTION: MR. KENT B. CRANE

TO :

SECRETARY OF STATE

TO: DIRECTOR, CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TO: DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLICENCE AGENCY

13:

DEPARIMENT OF THE ARMY EL

B3.

IO: DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 04

TO: DOÃ. SECRET SERVICE, ATTENTION:

PID

TO: THE ATIORNEY GENERAL (BY MESSENGER)

FROM: DIRECIOR, FBI

BRAMEM

I FBI Chroni

JK, AC, P6, DJ, GK

10254593

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

UNCLASSIFIED

STUDES ACITATIONAL AND ANTIWAR ACTIVITY IN THE

¡NITED STATES.

29 SEP 59 # 54593

THERE IS SET OUT BELOW THE HICHLIGHTS OF CUPRENT STUDENT

SECRET

HH 50529

DocId: 32346930 Page 8

---

## Page 9

CLASS: F.ISS MESSAGE.

SECRET

iN.

54543

PAGE

AGITATIONAL AND ANTIVAR ACTIVITY IN THE UNITED SIATES.

AGITATION CONTINUED ME CHICACO, ILLINOIS, TO PROTEST THE

TRIALS OF THE EIGHT INDIVIDUALS INDICTED FOR THEIP. ACTIVITIES DURING

INE DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION. ON SEPTEMBER TWENTY SIX

LEST, STUDENIS FOR A DIIOCRATIC SOCIETY (SES LEADERS ADDRESSED

--

APOROK IMATELY ONE HUNDRED INDIVIDUALS CATHERED OUTSIDE THE COURTHOUSE

BERNARD INE CORN, AN SOS LEADEP, WAS ARRESTED ON

A PRIOR CHARGE OF

ASSAULT. ON SEPTEMSER TWENTY SEVEN LAST, IWENTY INDIVIDUALS APPEARED

AI THE COURTHOUSE, BUT HELD NO DEMONSTRAI ION:

THE NU ENGLAND CONMITTEE FOR NONVIOLENT ACTION SPONSORED A

DEMONSTRATIO: AT INE GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION, GROTON,

COMICTICUT, ON SEPTENDER TWENTY SEVEN LAST DURING A VISIT TO IKE

AREA DY THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE. THE FIFTY SIX DENONSTRATORS

DISTR ISUTED LEAFLETS LISTING FROM FROM ICUT WHO HAVE

SEEN KILLED IN VIETNAM.

HOXEN STRIKE FOR PEACE (USP) PLAUS TO DEMONSIRATE AT THE SHOREMA

HOTEL, WASHINGION, D. CO, ON OCIOSER NINE NEXT WHEN URS. RICHARD

MIXON ADDRESSES IHE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF JEWISH WOMEN. WSP IS

PREPARING AN ANTIWAR TELEGRA: WHICH IT HOPES TO DELIVER TO

MP.S. MIXOI AT THE SHOREMAN HOTEL. COPIES OF THE TELEGRAM WILL BE

DISTRIBLTED IO INDIVIDUALS ATTENDING THE MEETING.

SIX HUNDAED INDIVIDUALS, INCLUDING MEMBERS OF THE YOUNG SOCIALIS.

ALLIANCE, SES, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE (SOLO:

DEMONSTRATED AT ATLANES, GEORGIA, ON SEPTENBER TWENTY SEVEN LAST TO

PROTESI ALLEGED POLICE BRUTALITY. THE PRINCIPAL SPEAXER. WAS HOSEA

WILLIANG, A LEADER OF THE SCLC. SPEAKERS DEMANDED THE REMOVAL OF THE

C: IdF OF POLICE.

HH 50529

DocId: 32316930 Page 9

---

## Page 10

CLASSIFTED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 251593

PAGE

PACE ZURSE

SOS SPONSORCO A DETONGTRATION CURING A FACULTY JEETING AT

MAVARO UNIVERSITY, GAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS, O SEPTO SEP TWENTY SIX

LAST TO PROTESI "PROJECI CAI," A PLAN IO DEVELOP A SCIBUCE DATA

MANAGMENT SYSTEM AT UNIVERSITIES IN THE BOSTON AREA. SPEAKERS

CRITICIZED THE WAR IN VIEINAY AND CLAIMED THAT THIS PROJECI

IS

LINKED TO IT.

SDS SPONSORED A DEMONSTRATICN IN IME VICINITY OF WAYNE STATE

UNIVERSITY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN, ON SEPTIMEEP. TWENTY SEVEN LAST.

SPEAKERS SUPPORTED NORTH VIEINA? AND CONDEMNED THE UNITED STATES

"RACISI IIPSRIALIST SOCISTY." FOLLOWING IHE SPEECHES, THE

DEMONSTRATORS BEGAN RUNNING THROUGH NEARBY STREETS. • NINE OF THEM

WERE ARREDIZO AND SEVEN POLICE OFFICERS WERE INJURED.

IT WAS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT ONE HURDRED DEMONSTRATORS WERE

ARRESTED O! SEPTEMBER TWENTY FIVE LAST DURING A SIT-IN AT THE

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, ANH ARDOP, MICHIGAN. ON SEPTENDER. TWENTY

SIX LAST, SOS SPONSORED A RALLY IO PROTEST INE ARRESIS. THE SALLY

WAS ADDRESSED BY THE PRESIDENT OF IKE UNIVERSITY WHO STATED THAT

UNIVERSITY AUTHORITIES WILL NOT MEET WITH THE DEMONSTRATORS UNDER

CONDITIOS OF DURESS. SOS IS ATTEMPTING SO PROMOTE A

STUDENT STRIKE.

THE IWIN CITY DRAFT INFORMATION CENTER SPONSORED A DEMON -

SIRATIO. AT SI. PAUL, MINNESOIA, ON SEPTEMBER IWENTY SIX LAST

DURING A VISIT TO IMAT CITY BY GENERAL WILLIAN C. WESTIORELAND.

END PACE THREE

SECRET

NH 50529 DocId: 32346930 Page 10

---

## Page 11

CLASSIFFED MESSAGE

SECRET

iN 54543

FACE Y

FACE FOUR UAGLASSIFIED

THE ESXOGSTRATORS DISTRIDUTED LITERATURE CENSORING GENERAL

WESTMORZLAND AND DENOUNCING THE WAR IN VIETNAM.

¿IT WAS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED INAT THE ASSOCIATION OF BLACK

COLLEGIANS WAS SUSPENDED AT FOREST PARK COMMUNITY COLLEGE,

SE. LOUIS, MISSOLRI, FOLLOWING DISFUPTIVE DEMONSTRATIONS. THE SCHOOL

HAS BEEN CLOSED SINCE THAT ILIE AND THE ASSOCIATION CONTINUED IES

AGITATION DEMAND INC THAT ADDITIONAL MEGRO FACULIY MENBORE SE HIRED,

THAI INE ASSOCIATION BE CIVE A WORKROOM, AND THAT II BE REINSTATED.

O: SEPTENDER IWENTY SIX LAST, THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY

PEINSTATED THE ASSOCIATION AND SCHOOL REOPENED TODAY.

THE WORKER STUDENT ALLIANCE SUSAD FACTION OF SOS, WHICH IS

CONTROLLED EY THE PROGRESSIVE LABOR PARTY, SPONSORED AN ANI IVAR

DEMONSATION AT NEW YORK CITY ON SEPTEMBER IWENTY SEVE: LAST.

THE TWO MORES DEMONSTRATORS CARRIED SIGNS DEMANDING THAT THE

WITED STATES LIMEDIATOLY WITHDRAW FROL VIETNAT. THE DENOUSTRAIIO!!

WAS DIST UPTED BY TWENTY DEMOUSTRATORS FROM THE STUDENT LISERATION

FRONT CARRYING A BANNER DEMANDING INE LNITED STATES GET OUT OF

VIETUAM AND URGING SUPPORI FOR THE DEMONSIRATIONS AT CHICAGO,

ILLINOIS, OCTOBER EIGHT THROUGH ELEVEN NEXI. POLICE KEPT THE

UPPOSING DRCUPS APARI. WSA SPEAKERS STATED IHAT IT WILL NOT

SUPFORT INE OCTOBER DEMONSTRATIONS IN CHICACO AS THE NATIONAL

OFFICE FACTION OF SOS WANTS VIOLENCE.

END PAGE FOUR

SECRET

HH 50529

DocId: 32346930 Page 11

---

## Page 12

CLASSIF ED MESSAGE

SECRET

iN 54593

PAGE

THO HONORED INDIVIDUALS DEHOUSTRATED IN THE VICINITY OF THE

FARGO, MORTA DAROTA, CIVIC AUCINOGLUM GH THE EVENING OF SEPTENDER

TIENTY SEVEN LAST DURING A SPEECH BY THE VICE PRESIET. THE DEMONT

STRATORS REAINED IN THE VICINITY OF THE CIVIC AUDITORIUA FOR

SEVERAL HOURS READ IMG THE HADES OF INDIVIDUALS VILLED IN VIEIRAN.

O SEPTEMBER TWENTY SIX LAST, GHE HUNDRED INDIVIDUALS WERE.

PRESET DURING THE SENTENCING OF AM LDIVIDUAL AT SAN JUAN, PUERIO

FICO, FOR A VIOLATIO: OF THE SELECI IVE SERVICE ACT. ..UPON LEAVING

THE COURTHOUSE, IRE DEMONSTRATORS PROCEDED TO THE JNIVERSITY OF

PUERTO RICO WHERE THREE HUNDRED FIFTY OF THEM GATHERED AT THE RESERVE

OFFICERS TRAMING CORPS CROIC) BUELDING. SEVERAL OF THE DENONT

STRATORS ENTERED THE ROIC BUILDING, SCATTEPED FILIS, DESTROYED PAPERS,

AND SET SIVERAL FIRES. SEVERAL FIRINED WERE INJURED BY ROCKS THROWN

BY THE DEMONSTRATORS. AN ANERICAN FLAG WAS BURNED DURING THE

DEMONCIRATION. DAMAGES TO THE ROTC BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT

ARE EST ZIATED AT TUENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS.

SOS DEMONSTRATED ON SEPTEMBER IWENTY SEVEN LAST AT SEATTLE,

WASHINGTON. THE TWENTY DEMONSTRATORS CARRIED A VIET CONG FLAG AND.

SPPAYED BUILDINGS WITH RED AND BLUE PAINT. OHE DEMONSTRATOR WAS

ARRE SIZE.

END PACE FIVE BT

SECRET

NN 50529 Do01d:32346930 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Date: 12/08/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10063-10378

RECORD SERIES

JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : FBI

FBI, DIRECTOR

PRESIDENT; SEC STATE; CIA; ETC

STUDENT AGITATIONAL AND ANTIWAR ACTIVITIES IN THE

UNITED STATES.

DATE : 09/29/1969

SUBJECTS : SDS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS

: POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/15/93

COMMENTS: ON FULL FOLL ARS DENSED IN 750210 3/EB79D.NED

IN FULL - 2/16/94; ARRB DENIED IN FULL

SIX PAGES . THE SIX-PAGE

COPY HAS 2 DIFFERENT FORMATTED FIRST PAGES A

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10063-10378

NAW 50529

DocId: 32346930

Page

13

---

## Page 14

2526 PI 9-29-69 J321:

PP. IOR IT Y

TO: THE PRESIDENT

TO: THE VICE PRESIDENT, ATTENTION: MR. KENT. B.

CRANE

TO:

SECRETARY OF STATE

TO: DIRECIOR, CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

AGENCy .94

TO: DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLICENCE AGENCY

B3

TO: DEPARIMENT OF THE ARMY C4

TO: DEPAPTHENT OF THE AIR FORCE

04

TO: U.E. SECRET SERVICE, ATTENTION: PID

IO: THE ATTORNEY GENERAL (BY MESSENGER)

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR

RELEASE OF. THIS DOCUMENT

UNCLASSIFIED

STUDEUT AGITATIONAL AND ANTIWAR ACTIVITY IN THE

WITED STATES.

29 SEP 69#54593

THERE IS SET OUT BELOW THE HICHLIGKIS OF CURRENT STUDENT

SECRET

NH 50529 DocId:32346930 Page 14

7165

---

## Page 15

iN 545%3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

AGITATIONAL AND ANTIWAR ACTIVITY IN THE UNITED STATES.

PAGE

CITATIO! CONTINUED AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, TO PROTEST THE

TRIALS OF THE EIGHT INDIVIDUALS INDICTED FOR THEIR ACTIVITIES DURING

THE DEMOCRATIC MATIONAL CONVENTION. ON SEPTEMBER IWENTY SIX

LAST, STUDENIS FOR A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY

(SDS) - LEADERS ADDRESSED

APPROX LIATELY ONE HUNDRED INDIVIDUALS CATHERED OUTSIDE THE COURINOUSE

BERNARD INE DOURN, AN SDS LEADEP, WAS ARRESTED ON A PRIOR CHAPCE OF

ASSAULT. ON SEPTEMBER TWENTY SEVEN LAST, IVENTY INDIVIDUALS APPEARED

AT THE COURTMOUSE, BUT HELD NO DEMONSTRAI ION.

INE NEW ENGLAND COMMITIZE FOR NONVIOLENT ACTION SPONSORED A

DEMONSTRATION AT THE GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION, GROTON,

CONNECTICUT, ON SEPTEMBER TWENTY SEVEN LAST DURING A VISIT TO THE

AREA BY THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE. THE FIFTY SIX DENONSTRATORS

DISTRISUTED LEAFLETS LISTING INDIVIDUALS FROM CONNECTICUT WHO HAVE

SEEN KILLED IN VIETNAM.

WOMEN SIRIKE FOR PEACE (WSP) PLAMS TO DEMONSTRATE AT THE SHOREHA

HOTEL, WASHINGTON, DO CO, ON OCTOBER NINE NEXT WHEN MRS: RICHARD

NIXON ADDRESSES THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF JEWISH WOMEN. WSP IS

PREPARING AN ANTIWAR TELEGRAM WHICH IT HOPES TO DELIVER TO

-

MRS. NIXON AT THE SHOREHAN HOTEL. COPIES OF THE TELEGRAM WILL BE

DISIR IBUTED TO INDIVIDUALS ATTENDING THE MEETING.

SIX HUNDRED INDIVIDUALS, INCLUDING

MEMBERS OF THE YOUNG SOCIALIS.

ALLIANCE, SDS, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE (SCLC

HW

DEMOINSTRATED AT ATLANTA, GEORGIA, ON SEPTEMBER TWENTY SEVEN LAST TO

PROTESI ALLEGED POLICE BRUTALITY. THE PRINCIPAL SPEAKER. WAS HOSEA

WILLIANS, A LEADER OF THE SCLC. SPEAKERS DEMANDED THE REMOVAL OF THE

CHIEF OF POLICE.

50529 DocId: 32346930 Page 15

SEEKEE

---

## Page 16

LASSIF ED MESSAGE

SECRET

INS:1553

PAGE 3

PACE IURDE

SOS SPONSORIO A DEMOHSTRATIOU DURING A FACULTY MEETING AT

RARVARD LUIVERSITY, CAMERIDEO, MASSACHUSEITS, OM SEPTS CAP THENTY SIX

LAST IO PROIESI "PROJECI CAI," A FLAN IO DEVELOP A SCIENCE DATA

MAMACEMENT SYSTEM AT UNIVERSITIES IN THE BOSTÓN AREA. SPEAKERS

CRITICIZED IHE WAR IN VIETNA!! AND CLAIMED THAI THIS PROJECT

Is

LINKED TO IT.

SOS SPONSORED A DEMONSTRATION IN THE VICINITY OF WAYNE STATE

UNIVERSITY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN, ON SEPTEMEEP TWENTY SEVEN LAST.

SPEAKERS SUPPORTED NORTH VIETNA: AND CONDEMNED THE UNITED SIATES

"RACIST IMPERIAL IST

SOCIaTY." FOLLOWING THE SPEECHES, THE:

DEMONSTRATORS BEGAN RUNNING INROUGH NEARBY STREETS. : NINE OF THEM

WERE ARRESTED AND SEVEN POLICE OFFICERS WERE INJURED.

IT WAS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT ONE HUNDRED DEMONSTRATORS WERE

ARRESTED ON SEPTEMBER. IWENTY FIVE LASI DURING A SIT-IN AT THO

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN. ON SEPTENSEP TWENTY

SIX LAST, SES SPONSORED A RALLY IO PROTEST IKE ARRESTS. THE RALLY

WAS ADDRESSED BY THE PRESIDENT OF IKE UNIVERSITY WHO STATED THAT.

UNIVERSITY AUTHORITIES WILL NOT MEET WITH THE DEMONSTRATORS UNDER

CONDITIONS OF DURESS. SDS IS ATTEMPTING TO PROMOTE A STUDENT STRIKE.

IKE TWIN CITY DRAFT INFORMATION CENTER SPONSORED A DEMON -

STRATION AT SI. PAUL, MINNESOTA, ON SEPTEMBER IWENTY SIX LAST

DURING A VISIT 1O THAT CITY BY GENERAL WILLIAM C. WESTIORELAND.

END PAGE THREE

HH: 50529 DocId: 32346930 Page 16

SECRET

---

## Page 17

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE:

SECRET

iN 54543

PAGE

PAGE FOUR UNCLASS

IFIED

IHO DEOUSTRATORS DISTRICUISS LITERATURE SENSORINE GENORAL

WESIXORELAND AND DENOUNCING THE WAR IN VIETNAM.

'IT WAS PROVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT IKE ASSOCIATION OF BLACK

COLLEGIANS WAS SUSPENDED AT FOREST PARK COMMUMITY COLLEGE,

SI. LOUIS, MISSOURI, FOLLOWING DISFUPT IVE DEMONSTRAI IONS. THE SCHOOL

HAS BEEN CLOSED SINCE THAT IIIE AND THE ASSOCIATION CONTINUED IES

AGITATION DEMANDING THAT ADDITIONAL NEGRO FACULIY INADERS SE HIRED,

THAT THE ASSOCIATION DE GIVEN A WORKROOM, AND THAT IT BE REINSTATED.

ON SEPTEMBER TWENTY SIN LAST, THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY

RE INSTATED THE ASSOCIATION AND SCHOOL REOPENED TODAY.

THE WORKER STUDENT ALLIANCE SUSAD FACTION OF SOS, WHICH IS

CONTROLLED PY THE PROCRESSIVE LABOR PARTY, SPONSORED AN ANTIVAR

DEMONSRAT ION AT NEW YORK CITY ON SEPTEUBER TWENTY SEVEN LAST.

THE TWO HUNDRED DEMONSTRATORS CAPRIED SIGNS DEMANDING THAT THE

UNITED STATES IIMEDIATELY WITHORAW FROM VIETNAM. THE DEMONSTRATION

WAS DISRUPTED SY TWENTY DEMONSTRATORS FRO THE STUDENT LISERATION

FRONT CARRYING A BANNER DEMANDING INE UNITED SIATES GET OUT OF

VIETHAM AND URGINE SUPPORI FOR THE DEMONSTRATIONS AT CHICAGO,

ILLIROIS, OCTOBER EIGHT THROUGH ELEVEN NEXT. POLICE KEPT THE

OPPOSIUG CROUPS APARI. WSA SPEAKERS STATED THAI IT WILL NOT

SUPPORT INE OCTOBER DEMOUSTRATIONS IN CHICAGO AS IHE NATIONAL

OFFICE FACTION OF SOS WANTS VIOLENCE.

END PACE TOUR

HH 50529 DocId:32346930 Page 17

SECRET

---

## Page 18

CLASSiF ED MESSAGE:

SECRET IN 54593 PAGE 5

PACE FIVE

TWO KUNGRED INDIVIDUALS DENCHSTRAIDD IN THE VICINITY OF THE

FARGO, MORTH DAKOTA, CIVIC AUCITORIUM OU THE EVENING OF SEPTENBER

TWENTY SEVEN LASI DURING A SPORCH BY THE VICE PRESIOENT. THE DEMONT

STRATORS RETAINED IN THE VICINITY OF THE CIVIC AUDITORIUN FOR

SEVERAL HOURS READING THE NAMES OF INDIVIDUALS XILLED IN VIETNA.

OM SEPTENDER TWENTY SIX LAST, ONE HUNDRED INDIVIDUALS WERE •

PRESENT DURING THE SENTENCING OF AN INDIVIDUAL AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO

RICO, FOR A VIOLATION OF THE SELECTIVE SERVICE ACI. UPON LEAVING

INE COURTHOUSE, THE DEMONSTRAIORS PROCEDED TO THE UNIVERSITY OF

PUERTO RICO WHERE THREE HUNDRED FIFTY OF THEM GATHERED AT THE RESERVE

OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS CROIC) BUILDINE. SEVERAL OF THE DEMONT

STRATORS ENTERED INE ROIC BUILDING, SCATTERED FILES, DESTROYED PAPERS,

AND SET SEVERAL FIRES.. SEVERAL FIREMEN WERE INJURED BY ROCKS THROWN

BY INE DEMOUSTRATORS. AN AMERICAN FLAG WAS BURNED DURING THE

DEMONSERATION. DAMAGES TO THE ROTC BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT

ARE ESTINATED AT TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS.

SDS DEMONSTRATED ON SEPTEMBER IWENTY SEVEN LAST AT SEATTLE,

WASHINGTON. THE TWENTY DEMONSTRATORS CARRIED A VIEI CONG FLAG AND

SPRAYED BUILDINGS WITH RED AND BLUE PAINT. ONE DEMONSTRATOR WAS

ARRESTED.

END PAGE FIVE BT

HH 50529 DocId:32346930 • Page 18

SECRET

---

## Page 19

2:26 pi 9-25-69 J.

PRIOR IT Y

TO: THE PRESIDENT

04

TO: THE VICE PRESIDENT, ATTENT IOU:

AP. KENT. B.

CRANE

TO:

SECRETARY OF SIATE

TO: DIRECIOR, CENTRALF INTELLIGENCE AGENCY DA.

TO: DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 05

TO: DEPARIMENI OF THE ARMY R4

IO: DEPAPIMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 04

TO:: U.E. SECRET SERVICE, ATTENTION: PID

TO: THE ATIORNEY GENERAL (BY MESSENGER)

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

UNCLASSIFIED

STUDENT ACITATIONAL AND ANTIWAR ACTIVITY IN THE

WITED STATES.

2.9 SEP 59 # 54593

..

THERE IS SET OUT BELOW THE HICHLIGKTS OF CURRENT STUDENT

SECRET

HH 50529 DocId:32346930 Page 19

Dup. 0F7165

---

## Page 20

CABLE SECCETABIAT DISSEMINATIONS

•PERSON/UNIT COTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

D ISSUED

• SLOTTED

QLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

(Whes Filled ID)

TOTAL COPIES

GROUP 1

FICTUSCO TROM NSTONLATIE

BOWNCRALINO

DIGLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

GROUTING AND/ON INITIALS-SEEN BY

SMOEX:

Dres

GLASSITY TO CS FILE NO.

XORES TO

Cs

FILE

NO.

8

TRIdE DIO

RETURN TO

ВАДМЕН

BY:

AT:

DISSEM BY

ACTION UNIT

For

K13

ACTION NO.

PER

134

FILE. VR.

D/SECUR 4 CS/RE

EES PT S=2S-69 5521

PRIOR IT Y

TO: THE PRESIDENT E4

TO: INE VICE PRESIDENT, ATTENTION:

M1R. KENT B. CRANE.

1O:

SECRETARY OF STATE

TO: DIRECTOR, CENTRALE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY DA

IO: DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

10: DEPARIMENT OF THE ARMY E4.

TO: DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

04

TO: U.G. SECRET SERVICE, ATTENTION: PID

1O: THE ATTORNEY GENERAL (BY MESSENGER)

FROM: DIRECIOR, FBI

V FBI Chromo

JK, AC, РБ, Д5, 6К

10154593

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

UNCLASSIFIED

STUDENT AGITATIONAL AND ANTIWAR ACTIVITY IN THE.

WITED STATES.

29 SEP 59W54593

THORE IS SET OUT BELOW THE HICHLIGKTS OF CURRENT STUDENT

SECRET

HH 50529 DocId: 32346930 Page 20

---

## Page 21

CLASEFIED MESSAGE

SEGRET

IN

54543

AGITATIONAL AND ANTIWAR ACTIVITY IN THE UNITED STATES.

PAGE

AGITATION CONTINUED ME CHICACO, ILLINOIS, TO PROTEST THE

TRZALS OF THE EIGHT INDIVIDUALS INDICTED FOR THEIR ACTIVITIOS DURING

INE DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION. ON SEPTEMBER TWENTY SIX

LEST, STUDENES FOR A DETOCRATIC SOCIETY (SES) LEADERS ADDRESSED

APPROXIMATELY ONE HUNDRED INDIVIDUALS GATHERED OUISIDE THE COURTHOUSE

BERNARD INE DOWRN, AN SS LEADEP, WAS ARRESTED ON A PRIOR CHARGE OF

ASSAULT. ON SEPIOMBER TWENTY SEVEN LASI, TWENTY INDIVIDUALS APPEARED

AT IHE COURTHOUSE, BUT HELD NO DEMONSTRAI ION.

THE NEW ENGLAND COMMITIEE FOR NONVIOLENT ACTION SPONSORED A

DEMOISTRATIO: AT THE GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION, GROTON,

COMTECTICUT, ON SEPTENBER IWENTY SEVEN LAST DURING A VISIT TO IKE

AREA BY THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE. THE FIFTY SIX DEMONSTRATORS

DISTRIBUTED LEAFLETS LISTING INDIVIDUALS FROM CONNECTICUT WHO HAVE

BEEN KILLED IN VIETNAM.

WOKEN STRIKE FOR PEACE (WSP) PLANS TO DEMONSTRATE AT THE SHOREHA

HOTEL, WASHINGTON, DO CO, ON OCTOSER NINE NEXT WHEN MRS: RICHARD

MIXON ADDRESSES THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF JEWISH WOMEN. WSP IS

PREPARING AN ANTIWAR TELEGRAM WHICH IT HOPES TO DELIVER TO

ARS. NIXON AT THE SHOREMAN HOTEL. COPIES OF THE TELEGRAM WILL BE

DISTRIBUTED TO INDIVIDUALS ATTENDING THE MEETING.

SIX HUNDRED INDIVIDUALS, INCLUDING MEMBERS OF THE YOUNG SOCIALISI

ALLIANCE, SDS, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE (SCLC:

DEMONNSTRATED AT ATLANTA, GEORGIA, ON SEPTEMBER IWENTY SEVEN LAST TO

PROTESI ALLEGED POLICE BRUTALITY. THE PRINCIPAL SPEAXER. WAS HOSEA

BILLIAMS, A LEADER OF THE SOLC. SPEAKERS DEMANDED THE REMOVAL OF THE

CHIdE OF POLICE.

50529 DocId: 32346930 Page 21

---

## Page 22

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN.

PAGE 3

PACE TURSE

SOS SPONSORCO A DEMONCTRATIOU ELZING A FACULTY METING AI

HARVARD UNIVERSITY, CAMBRIDE, MASSACHUSETTS, O! SEPTO GEP TWENTY SIX

LAST IO PROTESI "PROJECI CALI," A PLAN IO DEVELOP A SCIENCE DATA

MAVACOMENT SYSTEM AT UNIVERSITIES IN INE BOSTON AREA. SPEAKERS

CRITICIZED INE WAR IN VIETNAM AND CLAIMED THAI THIS PROJECT IS

LINKED TO IT.

SS SPONSORED A DEMONSTRATION IN THE VICINITY OF WAYNE STATE

UNIVERSITY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN, ON SEPTEMEEP. TWENTY SEVEN LAST

SPEAKERS SUPPORTED NORTH VIETNAX AND CONDEMNED THE UNITED STATES

"RACIST IIPERIALIST SOCISTY." FOLLOWING THE SPEECHES, THE

DEMONSTRATORS BEGAN RUNNING IMROUGH NEARBY STREETS. NINE OF THEM

WERE ARRESTED AND SEVEN POLICE OFFICERS WERE INJURED.

IT WAS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT ONE HUNDRED DEMONSTRATORS WERE

ARRESTED O SEPTEMBER IWENTY FIVE LAST DURING A SII -IN AT THE

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, ANN ARBOR, MICHICAN. ON SEPTEMSEP IWENTY

SIX LAST, SES SPONSORED A RALLY IO FROTEST IHE ARRESIS. THE PALLY

WAS ADDRESSED BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY WHO STATED THAT

INIVERSITY AUTHORITIES WILL NOT MEET WITH THE DEMONSTRATORS UNDER

COND IT IONS CE DURESS.

SDS IS AITEMPTING TO PROMOTE A STUDENT STRIKE.

THE TWIN CITY DRAFT INFORMATION CENTER SPONSORED A DEMON-

STRATION AT SI. PAUL, MINNESOTA, ON SEPTEMBER TWENTY SIX LAST

DUFING A VISIT TO THAT CITY BY GENERAL WILLIAM C. WESTMORELAND.

END

PACE. THREE

NW 50529 DocId: 32316930 Page 22

SECRET

---

## Page 23

•CLASSIALED MESSAGE'

SECRET

in 545÷3

FACE

FACE FOUR URGLASSIFIED

THE DEMOUSIRATORE DISTRIRUTES LITERATURE CENSORING GENERAL

WESTHORBLADD AND DENOUNCING. THE WAR IN VIETMAM.

IT WAS PEOVIOUSLY REPORTED INAT THE ASSOCIATION OF BLACK

COLLECIANS WAS SUSPENDED AT FOREST PARK COUMITY COLLEGE,

•ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI, FOLLOWING DISFUPTIVE DEMONSTRATIONS. THE SCHOOL

HAS BEEN CLOSED SINCE TRAI TIIE AND TRE ASSOCIATION CONTINUES IFS

AGITATION DEMANDING THAT ADDITIONAL MEGRO FACULIY MENDING SE HIRED,

THAT INE ASSOCIATION BE GIVEN A WORKROON, AND THAT II BE REINSIATID.

0: SEPTENDER TWENTY SIK LAST, THE PRESIDERT OF THE UNIVERSITY

REINSTATED THE ASSOCIATION AND SCHOOL REOPENED TODAY:

THE WORKER STUDENT ALLIANCE SUSAD FACTION OF SOS, WHICH IS

CONTROLLED BY THE PROGRESSIVE LABOR PARTY, SPONSORED AN ANI IVAR

DEMONS ATION AT NEW YORK CITY ON SEPTEMBER IWENTY SEVEN LAST.

INE IWO HUNDRED DEMONSTRATORS CARRIED SIGNS DEMANDING IHAT THE

UNITED STATES DIMEDIATELY WITHDRAW FROM VIEINA. THE DEMONSTRATION

WAS DISTUPTED SY TWENTY DEMOUSTRATOFS FROM THE SIUDENT LISERATION

FRONT CARRYING A BANNER DEMANDING THE UNITED STATES GET OUT OF

VIETHAM AND UAGING SUPPORI FOR IME DEMONSTRATIONS AI CHICAGO,

ILLIMOIS, OCTOBER EIGHT THROUGH ELEVEN NEXT. POLICE KEPT THE

OPPOSING ERCUPS APART. WSA SPEAKERS STATED THAT IT WILL NOT

SUPPORT THE OCTOBER DEMOUSTRATIONS IN CHICAGO AS THE NATIONAL

OFFICE MACHICH OF SS WANTS VIOLENCE.

END PAGE FOUR

HH 50529 DocId:32346930 Page 23

SECRET

---

## Page 24

CLASS:E, EE MESSAGE

SECRET

54593

PAGE S

PACO TWO UGOLAGGIEIED

TWO HUNDRED INDIVIDUALS DENCESTRATES IN THE VICINITY OF THE

FARGO, NORIN DAKOTA, CIVIC AUCITOIUG ON INE EVENING OF SEPTENGER

THENT.

SEVEN LAST DURING A SPEECH BY THE VICE PRESIDENT. THE DEMON?

STRATORS REMAINED IN THE VICINITY OF THE CIVIC AUDITORIUM FOR

SEVERAL HOURS READING THE MAMOS OF INDIVIDUALS XILLED IN VIETNA"

ON SEPTENEER TWENTY SIX LAST, ONE HUNDRED INDIVIDUALS WERE -

PRESENT DURING THE SENTENCING OF AN IUDIVIDUAL AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO

RICO, FOR A VIOLATION OF THE SELECTIVE SERVICE ACT. ..UPON LEAVING

THE COURTHOUSE, THE DIMONSTRATORS PROCEEDED TO THE UNIVERSITY OF

PUERTO RICO WHERE THREE HUNDRED FIFTY OF THEM GATHERED AT THE RESERVE

OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS CROIC) BUILDING. "SEVERAL OF THE DEMONT

STRATORS ENTERED THE ROIC BUILDING, SCATTERED FILES, DESTROYED PAPERS,

AND SET SEVERAL FIRES. SEVERAL FIRENEN WERE INJURED BY ROCKS THROWN

BY INE DEMONSTRATORS.. AN AMERICAN FLAG WAS BURNED DURING THE

DEMONSTRATION. DAMAGES TO THE ROTC BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT

ARE EST TIATED AT TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS.

SOS DEMONSTRATED ON SEPTEMBER IWENTY SEVEN LAST AT SEATTLE,

WASHINGTON. THE TWENTY DEMONSIRATORS CARRIED A VIET CONG FLAG AND

SPRAYED BUILDINGS WITH RED AND BLUE PAINT.: ONE DEMONSIRATOR WAS

ARRESTED.

END PACE FIVE 3T

HH 50529 - Do0Id:32346930

Page 24

SECRET

---

