# docid-32309938

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10301-10204

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

63-7985-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, CG

TITLE :

DATE:

10/31/1962

PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/12/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO DOJ, INC 3 MEMO, RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32309938

11

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711 05e 2101 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017 •

10/31/62

AIRTEL

TO:

SAC, CHICAGO

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (63-1985)

JAMES

RIDDLE HOPTA

IRVIN WINEE

ALLEN MC/CONFIAN

MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

(00: CG)

polls.

Berep SA Kenneth P. Pettijohn dated 10/25/62, at Indiana-

Enclosed herewith for the infomation and assistance

of the Chicago Office in Dlanning this investigation are copies

of the following documents obtained fron the Criminal Division:

(1)

Memorandun dated 1/14/60 fron Walter J. Shoridan

to Jerone S. Adlerman, captioned "James &, Molfa -

Sunnit Fidelity &

Teanster Bonding."

Surety Co.; Allen Dorfan;

(2) Memorandun dated 7/17/61 from Howard Jenkins, Jr.

to Daniel I. O'Connor, captioned "Teamsters Bonding."

(3)

U. S. Department of Labor, Bureau of labor

Manogenent Reports report of investigation dated

9/1/61, captioned "United Benefit Fire Insurance

Conpany

MAILED 19

OCT3 1 1962

COMM-FBI

of Omaha, Nebraska; International

Brotherhood

of Teansters; James I. Hoffa, President."

Memorandun dated 5/10/62 fron Walter J. Sheridan

to the files captioned

KEE 25

Coaster Bonding,"

Tolson.

gation to

The Chicago Ottico In outlining and plaming the 'investi

Belmont

be conducted in this matter should thoroughly-review

Mohr

those items and

Casper

this

revlew.

Callahan -

conduct appropriate investigations

a result of

1962

Conrad

BACLOSureS

(8)

DeLoach

Evans

NOTE: On 10/31/62 Department Attorney

Gale

Richard Coleman of the Crimina Division

Rosen

Sullivan

made available to SA Wayne A. Frankenfield

Tavel

documents referred to herein from which

Trotter

Tele. Room

copies were made.

These documents were

Holmes.

Gandy

IN MÀN ROOM

returned to Coleman after these copies

were made.

DocId: 32309938

Paye 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 21-11-2017

AIRTEL TO SAC,

CG

RE: JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA, IRVIN WEINER

63-7985

The Department of Labor report dated 9/1/61

is the best copy that the Bureau can obtain from the

Criminal Division,

DocId: 32309938

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aet of 1992 711 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

. WJS

COPY

MEMORANDUM

14 January 1960

TO:

FROM:

RE:

JeromeS. Adlerman

Walter J. Sheridan

James R. Hoifa • Sunmit Fidelity & Surety Co.;

Allen Dorfman; Teamster Bonding

On January 13, 1960, I contacted Frank Wright, President of

the United Bonding Company of Indianapolis, Indiana, telephone:

WA 6-1588.

Wright said that he was originally approached in approximately

October 1959 by a man named Menerovaki who was with the Lake-

State Auto Association in Chicago, Illinois. Menerovski claimed

that he had the Teamster bonding business sewed up and asked

Wright if he would write the business for him. Wright said that

ho told Menerovski that he was not going to do anything until the

rates and forms were more clearly established by the American

Surety Association.

Wright said that he next recoived a call from his own agent in

Newark, a man named Matty Silverman, who had been approached

by an unknown party who also stated that he had the Teamster

bonding business. Wright said that he gave Silverman the samo

reply.

Wright said that some time in December 1959 he was contacted

by a man named Don Pletts, who represented an agency in

Miami, Florida, who also told him that he had the Teamster

bonding business and offered to post a cash collateral of $300,000.

Pletts had previously contacted Jim Halpern of the United Public

Insurance Conjany of Indianapolis for the same pur pose. Wright

said that a man named Joba Quinlan with the Peerless Insurance

Company even quit his job to go with Fletts because Fletts scemed

so certain of getting the Teamster business.

1 мм

663: 7925

DocId 32309938

Page

WRIGHT

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy, Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (91 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mr. Adlerman

COPY

January 14, 1960

Wright said that subsequently in December 1959 he was telephonically

contacted by E: I. Cefrey of the United Benefit Fire Insurance

Conjany of Illinois, who told him that he had the Teamster bonding

business. Cefrey said that he was arranging a group of companies

to hancle the business and asked Wright if he would participate for

25 percent. At that time, Cefrey quoted a rate of $6.25 per thousand

per annum to be charged for the bonds. Wright agreed to participate.

Wright said that by letter dated December 29, 1959, signed by

B. K. Pyle of the United Benefit Company, their check #22886 in

the amount of 59, 750 was forwarded to Wright as his portion of

a premium deposit of $100, 000 which had been made by the Teamsters.

Union less 2-1/2 percent premium tax.: Wright said that ho was

surprized when he got the check representing 10 percent interest,

inasmuch as he had agreed to participate for 25 percent. He con-

tacted Cefrey, who told him that they had subsequently decided

that, inasmuch as his company was the smallest, they would only

participate for 10 percent.

Wright said that he has been attempting to get together with Cefrey

to determine more about the entire arrangement, particularly the

type of reinsurance arrangements being made.

Wright said that his understanding is that he and the other companies

will pay United Benefit a 35 percent commission as earned. The

volume of premiums over a three-year period was represented to

him as being approximately three million dollars, two million of

which would be to insure losses over onal iiion dollars with some-

one like Lloyas of London. He said that this would leave approxi-

rately one million to be split among participating companies.

Wright said that his files contained a letter dated December 15, 1959

from Tri-State Insurance Company to United Benefit, signed by

D. B. Ihmes of Tri-State, setting forth conditions under which

Tri-State agreed to participate to the extent of $200,000. These

conditions included a quarterly mecting of a committee made up of

representatives of all the participating companies to review the

underwriting and other procedures, at which a majority vote would

prevail. It was also stipulated that all money received by United

odId:32309938 • Page .5

---

## Page 6

"Releaset under the John F, Kennedy

assassination Records Collection Bet of 1992 144 USe 2107 Hote)y

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mr. Adlerman

COPY

January 14, 1960

Benefit from the Teamsters Union would be immediately divided

among the participating companies according to the stipulated

percentages. It also provided that the form used by United Benefit

to write the bonds, unless previously approved by the Attorney,

General's office, should be submitted to Iri-State for their roview

and suggestions. Coies of this letter were sent to Charles Bray,

Joseph Henning and David Ross.

Wright did not know who any of

these individuals were.

WIS/dof

RocId:32309938 Page 6

---

## Page 7

"Hereaser tier the zohn Fe

, DATE: 11-11-2017

HSSESSTNA!

191. U3C

Tur hotep

TE FILES

amC

Nav 10, 1962

Walter do Sheridon

TEAMSTER BONDING

Irink Vright, President of the United Bonding Company in

Indianmalls, advised that he had recently been approached by

ropresentativas of the trucking Association In Indiana to write

a bond vhich vould cover drivers for such eventualitles as

speeding tickets and veight Infrection violations.

He said that

he expressed sone interest in the idea.. He was subsequently

contacted by e man named leonardo who he belleved vas & former

Teamster official in Indiana.

the Icensters union end, said that the linion vanted to promote

the same idea but that they wanted to hanile the financing.

Wright said that he would kecp us adviced and was not certain

what he vas going to do ebout 1t.

Wright said that the leanster bonding is nor hendled

by the Resolute Insurance Campany. He said that a mn nane

Scribner is President of the Commany and has expressed e treat

concern to Hright about the leaster bonding situation.

told viright that Inin Weiner and Sol Scivartz are getting an

85é cut. He alao Inicated that Resoluto has not received any

premiums as yet fron the former underwriter, United Denefit Fire

Insurence Company. Wright sald that a men naned Morganstein

1s the Chairman of the Board at Fasolute and mins the Campany

like a dictator.. He seid that Serioner 1s treated like a "Iackey"

and does only want he 1s told to do by Morganstern.

NocId: 32309938

Page

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SATIONAL "ORM NO. 10

3010-104

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. Daniel L. O'Connor

DATE:

JUL 1 7 1961

SUBJECT: Tesstora Bonding

On June 21, 1961, Frank ExHright, Prosident and James E. Burch, Soretary-

Treasurer, of the United Banding Insuranca Company of 830 Bast 38th Street,

Indianapolis, Indiana, wers referrod to this offico by Sidney Cox of the

Treasury Departzent, and conforred with Mr. Blum of this office with

regard to bonding problems in connoction tith thair prospoctive contracding

as prinary suroty for the International Brotherhood of Toastora.

Daring the course of the conference, the inforants revealed that United

Bonding Insurance hed boan coatastod by one I. L. Cefrey with ralerene

to taling over as primary suroty for the Temstora' mastor bending progres.

Chicago, Illinos of which Mr. Cefray was fomerly Vice-president.

According to informants, Mr. Cefrey indioated that ho was now soting for

Charles Bray of the Honer Bray Service Campany of Chicago, Illinois.

Under the arrangement proposed to the Unitod Bonding Insurance Copany,

10 per cent of the promiums received by tha United Bonding Insurance

Company would be paid the Homer Bray Service Company as a brokerage fee

and 25 per oant would ba paid to the Homer Bray Service Company as agent

for the Unitod Benefit Insurance Company.

Additionally, it was revealed that lloyda of London hod been seting as

& reinsurer under the previous bonding arrangement and it was contemplated

that lloyde of london would set as a reinsurer for lo3t0s botween $100, 000

and $400,000 in the proposed arrangezent. It was also alloged that Contral

Casualty Company which was apparently a co-insurer under the prorious

arrangement was wholly owned by Honer Brey.

Fron the infornation revealed thare was no reason to believe that united

Bonding Insurance Company would not ba an acceptable suraty under section

502 of the Act. Massrs. Wright and Burch seemed particularly andous to

make sure that they would not be violating any lata in undertaläng this

arrangement. They indioated a desire to deal dirsctly with the Pesasters

Unton rather than dict through Honor Bray as intermodiary. Aspoots of the

law of the bending provisions as thay rolate to saraty ocapanios vero

explained and llteraturo was providod to Masore. Wrlght and Burch.

of the questions they aslsd aro being saven consideration and two of then

ars already under study in connection with other organizations.

63-798

6-wa

(RocId: 32309938. Page B

BLMR-C&E

JUL 17

DIV:

I

II

ITE

1961

TITLE:

I - Vi

ILI

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mr. Daniel L. O'Connor

2

One is whether the provision of the consolidated bond form giving a first

named insured power to aot for all the organizations covered by the bond

is acceptable under our interpretation of the bonding provisions. The

second is whether a master bonding progran in which certain of the local

organizations are covered only on schedule A of the consolidated bond

form is not in effect ablanket bond as regards those locals. The third

is whether the placement of collateral with surety by the insured would

not in effect amount to a deduction of a percentage of any loss so as to

violate the requirement that there is no minimun limitation on the amount

for which a person must be covered by boading.

DocId: 32309938

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collegtion Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Motey:

DATE: 11-14-2017

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

BUREAU OF LABOR HAMAGEMENT REPORTS

Offico of Complianco and Enteraroat

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

TITLE

1º15o

Focuss.

SALT

REPORT MADE A

182 reda

DATE

SEP

1 1968

AFIX FIRS

MASADA

PERIOD

August

83, 8401

SHAT DONAL EL

THAL

LASIAS

Lateral lavert gotten

Presle

TATUS

Ponding

CHARACTER

REFERENCE

Fault,

SYNOPSIS

(Dia 29-86)

8008,

MARCA ANESE SO 1001

Dentate Instea

Bartlord,

Contestient.

Jaly 8So

Cronasty

Boo prin

Isasica fire nod Chenalty lunarenes

unitod Bonding Insessese Qasy and Centre:

so Sa60.000.

HEY beNding &O PRANK Ment of naited benning euca

mon los detalia ca coveral escaalens..

Tis 293 ever-

united Bonalit has

pala endy 85s coulantes.

hes constensly dealed asceslatien with

ANY DIES DIES

1 Danieg alrest or fellast leterest in

UBISIAT

Celayed by

valted ta

and lasted Danial.

that prenues en neu talecas

APPROVED (Ar

DISTRIBUTION

The maran

Maras

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES DELOW

chi

Bereau

Kansas

80/cas10)

aliy Area

ELEC

2 - F110

Hits

63-798544 0

HONCY TROO

LM1-801 (8/00)

NagId: 32309938

32309938 Page 102060

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot 01 1992 141 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

Notel.

male ese:

138020

DS LORE DEAS ASTERIES CLO

el tan mining beninuns or munt conalderatien Dan

DY BRA BASEnATIONAL.

tLa 1a00ra260

EvergRadarE 5580S

Castenars

notos cad the

sage the readolease

• 10

DocId: 32309938 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released

under the John

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy

Assassination

Recor

Collection Act o1 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

Balted Bondag

In 1109000200,

partielDation

LENORA, PROBAI MA

DEMONT

ne at tho

erases andy to centees his.

the fannaters.

walton sadd be

&8ate Direates ol tha Indiena Incugance Eepartment and yas 80sd

AN I tO OR I M ME MIRIT MERCIATE MORE CELLE

DRON DE 1A ChO DACEUEL.

• 1o me Chring doct tren Coutros maunlty to enderuito

181,200 Dad bose see wanna boris.

Band and non endorstens that sorts band the elesgeo.

paran serested

2100000.

Tua Carminatonan®n estion una baced en the leat thes

Bant United Dancile was aiso laccailerng

when Contras Chenalty 2ed seen plazdag wits

united Denalit.

(BRAY seguIsed sha ball bonding balnons fermerdy

ANCERO DIANNY sEvered Mo sostectione with lunalt as the Angtanu.

SHEN el PAUL DONIMAN aNd IMIT HAINUAD. UNION DOLA NO ELAgES

Rosalute insuranto Company weale son undte the bald boris for

Control Enunli7. 1lo alan dald tant a second lacursace publientle

LICh was SOrTSIlY sensleted wiiS DIANCHl in the bald bond epera

nicer sold Cupany's solease fron United nazolat

asand fuen Large Seasan United Donells curtained on conotructien

usisten through th circass e enomy, united Benarat atem

have it reinoured.

union did not know with thon Carney do

CUTIONELY ASSOCAStES.

Pare 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

WRIGHT BAId CRAS BE DOICA DiLY aNd CAPREY On SEVeraL

OCCASIONS tO SUpDlY DiS ViED & S10t Of she locala sha Mere

bonded by vaited banesdi.

whAle thay never selused hin the

Indoratios, d8 vas sover inmisted.

Me also asked for details

ao to her the prenua paycoats vase processed.

He sondered

mother the unions node sheis chocks payable to United Benefit

DE GO MORON GIOT HOSTAGES

Ise. URiGht Dald he had never heard

of Onford Agoney, Int, bolos the agency for tha boudo and seves

soared so shon tha preslus payuents vere made.

The correapondence

1180 URICHT subuitted los exoniassion

CONIAINEd A LEBROI tO UniTOR DendiAN Iron United Beneflt dated

June 29, 1901, 80 which men atrochod a gratement of accouat for

Hay 1o01 Copy

attschee).

sse paying baited Bonasds

258 condusdea on carnod proadua and

everrido os earned promiuna at sle sate of 10%.

"RICHT sadd that

1a: the dIsurAnCO fieLA shA Overrido sopresented a cominsion inat

is usually paid to the originator of the business. He sald shas

fIon the uay he anderston tals iranIaction BRAY BOULA bO entired

80 the overrido.

It do to ma noted that United Benofit ingloted

shat BRAy would only recolve a 25s conniasion. It should also to

noted thas the quention of in override vas never rained with Unitod

Benelit or BRAY.

WRIGHT BAG tHES l1 :thare vere apeciad arrango-

than BRAY. It Shenld DA ROtOS that Undied Lonells And ARAY coa-

The salneurOrA vert fOrCed tO sECeDE tA EigurOS

united Bonafit furniated en pala nad curned promiano.

STOTIS sald be mie frequent Anguiries of united Bonalit

¿o daterains uby valen sending vas seatinually boing chargod for

"ONEGSA Of lOSE prOdiDa 4CO."

On July 14,

Vico president el unitod Benailt regarding thio.

Me une told that

BAls IepToneatod solunda of premiers to locale caused by a e

petitivo reduced rate unied shay inenghi coula da overcone by au

¡ncressed volume a proniuna on sou basiness. A note of did phone

Conversation with PYLE, dated July 14, 1900.

is astached.

sald he could not underatas uny lalied Bonardt vas delaying sio

REFUNd Of ORCEDS preniEn. ERICHT Bald his concaro voudd

imediately refund eluess premius secelved aince it uas other people?

KAICHT dadd DA UNdErERCO PRAT BRAY UNS InstrumeNtaL 1u

the delay of refunding as RAY told tri State lunurance that now

business would dfact the need for SELUdiNg.

"ith the manuaL A whiCh tha preams sere handled aud polated out

that he la constantly reguired to pay back soney.

FOLLING 1D S

control abstenant al valen Dundlag's position coverlas their 10%

rajasurance as of june 30, 1001.

DocId: 32309938

Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

DATE: 11-14-2017

C01

Lection Hot Or T992 199. 05C 2101 H0te7

Cants0l 8h008 Us108 Bosds

10% Reinsurance ACCe

pied Fren United Benefit Insurance

Da of Jano

CORD BUY

30, 8062

Preniune writsen through 0/30/08

21% tas serained

$5,000.00

32508.00

1.802.59

Prenius earned through 0/30/01$87, 360.05

29% conniasion

on earned proude

10% override on earned preminer

Sô, 842.26

2,736.91

Clais adjuatment capesse

Loss pald

Balande

63. 38

42.32

$50,103.40

• 502039

•200.87

33%: 370.17

65.70

$7,330.00

Received fre United Benofit

Refands already spadd

$56,330.00

323,053.02

2.807.93

S.555.0

DocId:32309938

Page: 14

---

## Page 15

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

BRAY, BLEer thE IDY MinEL Convention, fOld WIGHT De

mould get the west coast bending.

WRICHT a2d0 said he heard & sumor that IRVIN WEISER

got the danurance business of the Castaways nosel and the

Bvergsaden Hotel, both of when ars recipients of IBI pension

fund loans.

he said that the premium on the Zverglades could

"by Just

It is to be noted that a previous chronology showa

that WEINER was at the Atlanta Cabana and that BlAY relephoned

the Goderal Ogelthosge for a reservarion.

8. On hugaot 33, 2951, WRIGHT received a letter froM BRAY

confiraing thas Resolute vas

golad to "front" the IBT bandi.

Attached to BRAY'a lotter Mas an offer to United Bonding iron

¡esolus, for United sonding to participata in 25% of the selnsuring.

BRAY's lester Indicates that Houston Tire and Central Casualty

would be the other prinary $100, 000 IBINSUICIS.

The letter does

not shot unar portion bouston and Central would cover.

It 1a to

be nosed that the olfer of reinauraves to United Bonding fros

ResOlute shers "premiua to be deterained." "RIGht said tais pro

vides a justification for the underater tO deLay retunding ou

Excess pIeniuns.

WRICT BaId thE SaNd ITOViDIONS AppEared in the

agreemant with United Benefit.

wkieir was not ackod 1d he planued

to participate in the neu arrangement.

It 1s lateresting to note that BRAY's letter states that

"Central Casually vill handlo sil of the reinsurance sonay, clajas,

et cctesa."

BestS' InDurance RepOrts, 1061, shou Resolute Insurance

company of providence, Raede island, pilacipal office at 103 Asylum

Avenue ¿inancial ratios of Alde

Hartfore, Connecticut, has a polley holders rating al A+

They have cash assets in excesa

of $15, 000,000.

Beass sintes that Renolute le principally engaged

in finsachag auto joans and hone loans.. It insures these 1o01s..

The Chairsan of the Board is LEWIS MONGENSTERN. FOllOwdag

is a list of she officors and directors of resolute as shou

Best& NepOrtE!

Prcoident

Vico President

VicE President

Vice Fresident

vice President

secretary

TIGAGUICI

EDWARD K. SCRIBNER

LEWIS ARMAO

ROHARD M. COX

VAL I. JONES

ARTHONY W. KERCH

HENRY D. ORDWAY

a. Ho FIELD

DiTEGEOLIS

Hi. BUNKE

MILTON GOODMAN

LAWIS NORGANSTERN

E. K.

SCHIONER

LEWIS F. SHOW

5

DocId:32399938, Pave 2K

---

## Page 16

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

10.

BESTS shes that Central Casually has sustained losses

during

the yease of 1058, 1959 and deou.

The looses in 1860

encoaded thano inquIred a 1953 and 1059. The expenses or Cantrai

Casualty vera 118, St of premiuas received.

BASIS pOIntS QUE au

unuoual aituasion in the fisanelal report of Central Casually.

The repost shers abou 5468,000 ol uncollecied premiuma fron dis

agento thereas Central Casualsy seports about $350, 000 in preniums

duB.

The report shous that an additional $300,000 vas pus

dato the basiness la 1960. It

aldo, shens that ite assets vere

CreRadd Ly 300, Mia Mia asses sEprOsents $90, 000 office building

located la Albuguerque, New Menico.

(Previous lovestigation shous

this building has an sosual value of $13,000.)

WRIGHT compared the salaries pald by Castial Casualty

against those of his company.

No sald that Contral Casuelty solaries

appeared to be uay out of lina.

No Hondered if iDE Balatios MerO sO

•saigo to provide for kielbacte.

FENDING

ENC

HASHINGTOS 25%

Do Go

• - copy ar

with attachanato, dated June 20, 1001

2 - Copy oi mono of phone conversation dated July 14,

3 - Copy of lester fren Hoser: Bray Service 10 United Bonding,

with astachment, dated August 21, 1901

FUR BOSTON AREA OFFICE, 333 HASHUISTCM ST., BOSTON &, MASSACHUSSTTS

Same as

above

FOR KANSAS CITY AREA OFFICE

823

WALNUT ST. KANDAS CITY O- MISSAUAL

з 30

above

DocId: 32309938

Page 16

---

## Page 17

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNDEVSLOPED LEADS

BOSION, MASSACHUSETTS AREA OFFICE

THANITORE.

#111 obtain infornation fren the Resolute Insurance

Cospany, ll Abylun Ssroet, Hartford, Conneeticut rolative to

their purchane of sbat 18t

bonding businens previously under-

orderen by the United Bonelit fire Insuraace Company, Osana.

NebIaa3A.

the inveerigation should include, but not be iinited

to: (1) Obtaining coples of purchase agreenents betucen lesolate

and United Benefli, (2) enmination of fiscal documents to deter-

nine the actual payed for the bore busirese rurchase, (3) asceI-

tainind the names of the persona mho introduced resolute o

Unsted Benefit and the manea of she persons who negotiated the

deal; and (4) uhat consideration, 1f any, lins given to the

period effective december 15, 1959.

3.

In addition to ths aforanentioned, infornation should

be developed maico uill include, but not be limited to: (1) copies

of agreenents berneen Resolute and Herer Bray Services, Inc., of

Chicago os Evanatos, Illiaolo, (2) copies of agreementa batwaca

CHALLIS BRAY, President Of loner Bray Services, Ine.; and (3)

copies of agrescents betwean lobolute and Central Casualty Coupany

of IvaBitor or ChicagO, lladDOlO. CHANLES BRAY 16 AlsO President

of Central Casualty.

Alao obtain fron Resolute the unes of the reinsurers

to cential Casualty or Houstoa Pire and Casualty Insurance Compasy.

4. Also obtain the nases of the concerns uho will reinsure

the excess coverage and the percentage of their coverage.

determine what arrangenests, li any, that lesolure has mode with

¿10yd5 of Landas applicable

t0 reinsurance of excess coverage of

these sage union bonds.

In aúdition to a 29% cosmission, the reinsurers paid en

OYCISICE

In the

amount of 10% of the carued premiuns to United

benefit. If this sane condition prevaila la the agreement between

Renolute and its

3 sainsurers, determina to uhan the loi overrido is

paid.

o. Special attention should de given to those provisions

between Nesolute and Central Casualty herein Central Casually vill

handle all of the reinsurance money, claias, etc.

DecId 32309938

B. Page 17%

---

## Page 18

Released under the john f. Kennety Assassination Records Collection Aot o1 1992 144 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

KANSAS CITY, MASSA

MISSOURI AREA OPFICH

AT GAHA,

Will obtain from United Benefit Pire Insurance Company

copies

of their sales agreenent with lesolute.

The investigation

shoudd include, but not be liaited to, obtaining detailed informa-

tion solating to the handlias of the $100,000 prentua advance for

INSUIIRS

of the IBt officials for a thrce year period, effective

DEcenDer 15, 1959.

Will obrain the sanes of the persons who introdaced

United Benefit to kesolute, and the manes of the persons who nego-

tiated the transaction.

3.

will exanine the 10% override account maintained by

United Benefit and deterine the names of those concerus or persoas

who were paid fron this account. It is not auticipated that many

PAYROLIS

are involved and copien of cancelled checks covering such

paynents should be obtained.

will obrain copies of cancelled checks representing pay-

genti for commisalons to Hones Bray Services, Ine. (Commissions were

dur Hoser Bray sarvice in the arount of 25% of the earned premiums.

ine progran was in effech for one dad oue-half years as of june 30,

1901. The bonds were for a three-year period.

Except for' latter

reveluled business, "ONER INA! would be entitled to 25% of half of

the paid picsduas).

Will obtain fros United Benefit copies of theis final

starenenta to sheir reinsurers of closing out oi Teamsters bonding

iusiness.

rill examine a representative nunter of refunds to l0ca1

in excess of $100.00 to deteraine whether or not the payments

were ande payable to the locil unions of to officials of the local

union.

Tue cancelled checks covering such payments should be

exanined to determine that they were deposited to the accounts of

Ile 1venl unions to whos they vere nade payable.

Copies of elecks

ahould be outained in such inutances where the check bears a second

i RAGOTSENERT.

7.

vill ascertain whether or not all refunds have been made.

all refunds

have not been made obtain the identity of the locals

to iron relunes are due and the, añounts involved.

DocId: 32309938

Page 18

---

## Page 19

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records. Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

CHICACO ARRA OFFICE

RY CHICAGO,

ILLINOIS

Based on infornation developed by the boston and

Kansas City area Offices, the Chicago Area Office will

subpoena the books and records of Cential Casuaity Compasy.

Homer Drey Setted, lean and buor not alrect, liare

ascertain whether or Lot

paynente, direct

beca nade to IT Officials,

etcetera.

DocId:32309938

Page 19

---

