# docid-32308985

## Page 1

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10297-10112

HQ

92-6054-2380, 2381

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, BU

DATE:

08/13/1968

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LCN, SECURITIES, SUSP, BUSCEMI, LEONARD, MURIELLO,

FRANK, QUINN, JOHN R

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32308985

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Hereased Tiler the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Correction Aot or 1992 114 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017,

IPTIONAL FORM NO. 'IO

1962 EDITION

EX FPOR EDITORY 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVEKNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

Director, FBI

(92-6054)

SAC, gurgaro. (92-337) (8)

LA COSA NOSTRA

BUFFALO DIVISION

AR

DATE:

8/15/68

ReBulet 8/13/68.

During the night 7/2-3/68, the residence of DAVID

M. „STRASENBURGH, 350] Elmwood Avenue, Brighton, New York,

was burglarized

and a safe containing securities, among

other items, taken.

on 7/29/00, BU 332-C-IE, advised SA PAUL A. JOENSEI

that he had been contacted by two

well known burglars whom he

identified as LEONARD BUSCEMI and FRANK MURIELLO.

the CI was to develop sources for the disposal of loot obtained

I was hese metop sourced ther reason for coact yosron

CEMI and MURIELLO mentioned having furs, jewelry,

,some of wi

they displayed to CI, and considerable antique silver Items

These men told informant they had been referred to him be-

cause of his ICN connections and his ability to dispose of

loot. Informant noted he was aware of SACCO's arrest and

SACCO'S

role as a fence for many big items stolen locally.

CI explashed that SACCO was representing ICN interests 1n9

handling stolen loot.

inquired whether they had robbed

to the securities, could get them.

Informant indicated he

could hesp them in finding a buyer fol thepsecurities.

EX-103)

REC: 27

57160

5

5010-108-02

DocId: 32308985

Bureau (RM)

-

Buffalo

FBJ : mim/MKC

(3)

P2419

340

Page 2

HI AUG 19 1968

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on

Payrollisinge Plan

---

## Page 3

Released Tier the Toll F. Kenetly

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATES. 11-11-2017 .,

BU 92-337

Informant, under FBI instructions, continued to

show interest in the securities to the extent BUSCEMI and

MURIELLO

told informant they had taken the safe to Ironde-

quoit Bay, Lake Ontario, and MURIELLO put the safe in the

water for safe keeping.

are kenne: here

Informant then accompanied BUSCEMI

and MURIELLO to the Bay where the approximate location of

the safe in the water of the Bay was pointed out to the cI.

At approximately 1:00 a.m., on 7/30/68, BU 332-C-TE,

accompanied SAS. PAUL A. JOENSEN and DONALD CHESWORTH, JI. to

Irondequoit Bay where he pointed out the approximate location

of the safe in the waters, as furnished him.

on 7/31/68, the safe taken in the burglary of the

STRASENBURGH residence was found in the water of Irondequoit

Bay by SA RAYMOND B. JOHNSON,

"using scuba diving equipment,

assisted by SAs PAUL A. JOENSEN and DONALD CHESWORTH, Jr.

The contents of the safe consisted of the securities originally

reported stolen by the victim.

The recovered securities had

a value of $2,420,900.09,

based upon the Open Market value of

these securities as of 7/3/68.

Information furnished by BU 332-C-TE concerning

the involvement of BUSCEMI and MURIELLO in other house burglarfus

was furnished to local authorities. As a result of the dis-

semination of this information and

subsequent information.fur-

and an associate, JOHN R QUINN, were arrested on

nished by the informant of a dally basis, BUSCIMI, 6/8/58,0y.

local authorities, following the burglary of the residence of

MARTIN E. NASH, 690 Maniton Road, Greece, New York, on 8/8/68.

In this burglary a safe containing $3,000 in cash and $20,000'

in U. S. Savings Bonds wese stolen.

The '$3,000 cash was

recovered in the possession of these three men when arrested,

In addition, police recovered two men's gold watches valued,

at $500 each (total $1,000); three men's shirts taken in the

STRASENBURGH burglary; one stock certificate stolen in another

burglary, as well as

an expensive shotgun, not yet traced to

owner.

Based upon the foregoing, this office requests creait

for recoveries totaling $2, 432,986.09.

When the value of the

other items enumerated above is determined this information

will be furnished to the Bureau.

No local authorities were

involved in this recovery which resulted solely from FBI

efforts and reflects a major blow against the ICN operation

in this area.

-2-

DocId:32308985 Page 3

---

