# docid-32335538

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90124-10096

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Date:

Released under the John

f. Kennedy

AssasSination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

5/4/2015

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

08/23/1966

4

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32335538

29

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"rr

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

Min.

MOMUMGOSNI

79/8/3

olences

mant

2.711

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-107-02

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN: REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES G

ERNMENT

Memorandum

Director, FBI (134-15266)(S)

DATE: 8/23/66

I SAC, Man: 31-1202 601posee

RIPOD/

PS

cia 56418-8135

DECL

3/2048.

'S - CUBA

Declassify on

NA

*on

1 August 16,

1966,

MM (1154-S was interviewe

at length[following his

return from the Dominican

Republic (DR on August 14,,

Despite detailed

questioning for specifics,

he seemed to have difficulty

IFIED BY _S6685t0

Gee

n recalling day to day activities of his visit. ThelS

03ISIS3

NMOHS

34.

3631

SIM:

interviewing Agent concluded, however, that

the in-

formant was not withholding any information,

but that

he

could not recall

as

set out below:

apre information that he turnished

i Dem.ReP,

The informant left Miami on July 28, 1955 on CDAL+

flight,

unaccompanied, as MITCHELL/WER$BEL was unable

to

obtain a visa to enter the DRy

WER BEL is subject

of Miami

file 105-11409.

Upon his arrival in the DR, the informant

come

went to the house of a friend who lives at Feliz Marial

781, where he remained) for a week.

The foltowing day Is

he went to see Commodore RAMON EMILIO JIMENEZ, Chief

stail. of the Dominican Navy, whom the

Informant has 3J" Dan

kep

known for approximately(18 monthsland who is considered

to berthe informant's best contact in the DR. FromL

JIMENEZ the informant received permission to go tors

the Hainai Base to check equipment which originallyi

belonged to the anti-CASTRO organization JURE,

when

that organization had

a base in the DR.

This base

is;

located 14 kilometers from downtown Santo Domingo.

Buck

(The informant went

to the (base and beganC

to inventory the JURE equipment

which consisted of

caliber machine guns, a recoilless cannon, numerous

small arms, ammunition and explosives.

The informants

2

Bureau (RM)

REC 54

Miami

StRA

JEM: JMS

coples made

134-15266-2373

2tb(3)

8

35 54

/21€

Mite/all

3

AUG 24 1966

"I riE for review at FBIHQ by

HSCA-re/2-16-Mrequesto MuR llErT DIA

(Soo Defile f62-117290)

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Sangs PlaNAL INI. SEC.

NW 54462 DooId: 32335538

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 134-1292

-SECRET

between $8,000 and $10,000. This equipment was

originally

under the control of JosE, rabel who is

now a prisoner in Cuba.

The equipment is now under

the control of the informant 5

DOM REl or LAWRENCE LICHELL:

For approximately the next 5 days,

informant waited in Santo Domingo for the arrival

and MITCHELL WER BELES

LAWRENCE MITCHELL iS

a veterinary by profession, who

resides in Georgia, and who is a friend of MITCHELL

WER BELO

While waiting for the arrival of MITCHELL L$_

BEL, the informant visited the Immigration<S-

Department to obtain a document which would permit

himytoJenter and leave the DR without any problem. CS

He also made arrangements to obtain a temporary

to continue to participate in business ventures in

the DR.

During this time, the informant ascertained

Why MITCHELL WER BEL had been unable to obtain a

visa.

When WER BEL had been in the DR previously,

he was involved in an automobile accident in which a

small boy was injured.

WER BEL also passed a bad

check in the amount of $5,000 in the DR. Such past

activities on the part of

WER BEL prevented him from

obtaining a visa.

During the first week the informantwas in 5T

the DR,

quainted.

not several cubans (with waon ha yas ace

He identified them

as follows:

"FATTY"/ GARCIA,

who as formerly

connected

with CIA and the Frente Revolucionario Democratico

(FRD). GARCIA was acquainted with WER BEL and re=

quested informant to give WER BEL GARCIA's regards

the next time he sees him

- 2-

SCRET

NW 54462 DooId: 32335538

Page 3

---

## Page 4

DOD

A E34-1202 7(5)

SECRET

Dom. Pel

(3)Не spoke with IGNACIO/CASTRO, a Cuban

businessman in Santo Domingo, who said

that he hadS)

heard that ROLANDO MASFERRER was coming to Santo

Domingo on August 13

Tative to the whereabouts of MASFERRER.

RE SANTIAGO RE*

2e?

Dom.

Informant also recalled that while he was

talking with Commodore JIMENEZ,

JIMENEZ (mentioned' (S

that a group of members of the

Movimiento Democratico

Cristiano (MDC) of LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA have a

boat which JIMENEZ referred to as a Sigma, which

they

are using for fishing in the Bay of Manzanillo.

This

is the only Cuban activity encountered by the informant

during his visit.

While in the DR, the informant als /paid a

visit to

Colonel HOLMES, who is attached to the

American Embassy, and had lunch with HOLMES. This.

was merely a social contact &

LAWRENCE MITCHELL arrived on August 4, 1966

but without MITCHELL WER BEL,

tainea a visa.

to meet a business associate of MITCHELL named EDMUNDO

VALLE. MITCHELL and VALLE had been in the banana

peanut o1 refinery in Santiago. MITCHELL and the

business but are now planning to attempt to develoP

informant spent the day examining an oil refinery that

any of his ventures in the DR develop

financially

-3 -

SECRE

120-ip

NW 54462 DooId: 32335538

Page 4

---

## Page 5

134-1292

SECRET

the following day, which was sunday, August

7, 1966, MITCHELL and the informant visited FRANK LS

is a long-time friend

discussed several business propositions with the s

normant, Including the possibility that he would

uy a farm for the informant to operate and also CS.

the possibility that he would buy the VENUS, which

would be outfitted for commercial use except that

BERMUDE would have the use of the vessel once or

twice a month for pleasure purposes and fishing.

The VENUS is owned

by

MANUEL RAY and was formerly

operated by JURE.

MITCHELL and the informant returned to

Santo Domingo on Monday, and on Tuesday informant C

took MITCHELL to meet Commodore JIMENEZ.

At this

time the informant advised JIMENEZ thatYJOSE RABEL

had borrowed $11,000 from LAWRENCE MITCHELL, which

h

had used to repair the VENUS, purchase arms and

gasoline. RABEL had not repaid this money when he

CS

turning over control of the arms to MITCHELL in

order that MITCHELL could attempt to sell the arms and

recover his $11,000. JIMENEZ then asked MITCHELL

if he, MITCHELL, had any intention of trying to move

the arms from the Naval Base, and MITCHELL said he

wanted nothing to do with the arms but would like

to sell them and recover his money. Informant indicated de

that JIMENEZ had no intention of releasing the arms to

MITCHELL if MITCHELL

had wished to take personal

possession of them

The following two or three days were spent

by MITCHELL and the informant)in attempting to arranges

for theif passage back to Miami, and there were no

Significant contacts made during that time. They were CJ

finally able to get out of Santo Domingo on August 14,

1966.

=: 4

54462 DocId: 32335538

Page 5

---

