# docid-32332997

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/12/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-90104-10295

HQ

92-2940-133

Document Information

Released under the John

f. kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

CaseR:NU 45836 Date:

11-20-2017

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/04/1961

'PAGES:

82

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 3; 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

HH 45836

DocId: 32332997

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG 92-226

PG T-T IS DAVID A. SMITH, Treasurer, City of Pittsburgh, Pa.,

who was contacted by SA RICHARD GORDoN DOUcE on 12/1/60.

PG I-8 1s the confidential report of Dun and Bradstreet, Inc.,

dated 4/19/59 and furnished by the Pittsburgh office of that

organization on 3/14/61.

PG T-9 1S CHARLES METCALE, Vice-President, Western Pennsylvania.

National Bank, McKeesport, Pa., who was contacted by SAA

ALLISON on 4/27 and 5/1/61.

PG T-10 1S HAROLD W. LAUVER,, Immigration and Naturallzation

Service Investigator, Pittsburgh, Pa, who requested that

his identity be concealed and who was

contacted by SA

WILLIAM R. WALL on 12/12,13, 16 and 19/57•

PG I-11 is JAMES CUNNINGHAM, Dun and Bradstreet representative,

Johnstown, Pa., who requested that his identity not be

revealed and who was contacted on 4/27/61 by SA J. EDWARD

KERN.

PG T-12 1s E. L. EDWARDS, Vice-President, United States

National Bank, Johnstown, Pa., who was contacted by

SA KERN on 4/27/01.

PG T-3 1s

JOHN E. GERLICH, Assistant Vice-President, Brookline

Savings and Trust Company, Pittsburgh, Pa. who was

contacted on

4/17/61 by SAA ALLISON.

PG T34 1S J. DOUGLAS DOLE, Executive Vice-President and

Secretary, South Pittsburgh Savings and Loan Association,

Pittsburgh, Pa., who was contacted by SAA ALLISON on 4/17/61.

PG T-15 Is CHESTER. STUPAK, a former potential criminal

Informant of the Pittsburgh Office who was contacted by

SA JOHN S. PORTELLA on 12/13/54 and 10/21/55.

PG I-16 1S CHARLES H, THOMAS, owner and operator of the

Thomas Service Station at Ingomar, Pa., who requested that

his identity remain confidential when

contacted by SA VOEGE

on 3/22/61.

-et-

COVER PAGE

IRS

REVIEWED BY FENUFK TASK FORCE,

•ON B/14/98 dat

* RELEASE IN FULL

I RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

DUS

REVIEWED BY

BEWUFK TASK FORCE

ON

129/92 d

OF. RELSASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

E

TOTAL DENIAL

HIH

45836 DooId:32332997 Page 2

---

## Page 3

RAV : mef

(3)

PG 92-226

REVIEWED BY

BENUEK

TASK FORCE

ON 4/29/90 clas

RELEASE IN FULL

I RELEASE IN PART CONE WitL FBI

d'eletion,

• TOTAL DENIAL

on February 27, 1958, Reverend ANDREW E, DLUGOS,

Pastor,

St. Michael's Roman Catholic Slovak Church, First Avenue,

Jessup, Pa., advised SA JAMES E. CARROLL from official

church records that MARY CMELIK was born at Jessio, Pa, on

April 2, 1910, and was baptized on April 3,

1910.

Her

parents were listed as JOHN CMELIK and MAGDALINE GABRIS.

Records of the Immigration and Naturalization Service at.

Pittsburgh, Pa., as reviewed on December 12, 1957, indicate

that IA ROCCA adopted a child named HOWARD IESLIE HOFFMAN

at Greensburg, Pas

through the westmoreland County

orphans court.

The father of this child was identified

as TONY TERRIGIO and it was noted that the child was born

at Greensburg, Pa., on October 1, 1943. Upon adoption,

the child was

named JOHN.

Lieutenant Colonel GILBERT PHILIPPS, Admissions officer,

Valley Forge Military Academy, Wayne, Pa., has advised that

JOHN LA ROCCA is presently attending Valley Forge

MilItary Academy, where tuition, room and board, amounts

to approximately $2,225 each school year. He further

advised that the only. close associate of LA ROCCA at

the academy 1s. DOMENICK VINCENT RIPEPI,

son of ANTONIO

RIPEPI, a close associate of the elder LA ROCCA at Pittsburgh,

Pa.

PHILIPPS advised that cadets are not required to account

for money furnished to them by their parents or guardians

and that this would apply also to the money these cadets

spend at the post exchange or while away from the academy.

They are not required to furnish memoranda and their mode

of travel from the school to their homes during vacation

periods.

It should be noted that LA ROCCA is presently

scheduled to graduate from Valley Forge Military Academy

on June 3, 1961, and according to his

father intends

to pursue a course in law.

V.: Origin of the Interest of LA ROCCA in

Racketeering and Steps Leading to Current

Position and Activities in Racketeering

Matters

The most complete understanding of the origin and background

of the interest of LA ROCCA In racketeering and the steps

4

45836 DocId: 32332997 Page 3

---

## Page 4

C

RAV : meI

(4)

PG: 92-226

leading up. to his current position and activities in

racketeering matters, can be obtained from information relating

to the early, actlvities of lA ROCCA, furnished to the Pittsburgh

office of the FBI as follows:

On February 27, 1958,

advised that he had been

In the numbers

writing activity since about 1928 and Is still

active in this regard.

He said that most of Pittsburgh's

present day.

"big racket men" once depended on him solely

for

protection purposes since he knew local and state policé

figures and

recalled that JOIN IM ROCCA was one of these

racketeers.

stated that LA ROCCA became acquainted.

with him in

about 1941 or 1942 when LA ROCCA was handling all

the numbers activity. In the East Ilberty

and had set himself up as a "little god, „section of ritteburgh

When LA ROCCA

became dissatisfied with his financial gains, he left Pittsburgh

mahen he nice see mate can paste seel machines

with which he felt he could make more money.

a paste reel was similar to a

aKe marmed bandit with the

exception that a small paper-wrapped mint was dispensed after

the coin was placed in the slot and the play was registered.

The Chicago manufacturer of this machine circumvented the

"strictly for gambling purposes" phraseology in the

law In

this manner.

JFK Act 6 (4)

While LA ROCCA was in Chicago,

said he moved into

the East Ilberty Section and took over the entire numbers

and had someone drive a car overi

was crossing a street.

said when he was; discharged

from the hospital he

found

out that his automobile had numerous

bullet holes in it.

said that because he thought

he would make money

in the East Liberty Section, he stayed

in the business of writing numbers and actually forced LA ROCCA

out of the numbers business.

advised that in about 1943, he and LA ROCCA became

Triendly and LA ROCCA invited him

to share equally in the

ownership of the Coin Machine Distributing Company which later

set up offices at 5746 Baum Boulevard, in Pittsburgh.

5.

HH

45836 DooId: 32332997 Page 4

---

## Page 5

C

RAV : mef

(5)

PG 92-226

recalled that, LA ROCCA was completely bankrupt at, that time

enough money

to put up his share.

said he personally' traveled to

Chicago to arrange for the purchase of machines to be distributed

by this company

and had a verbal agreement with ART ROONEY

who allowed him to place these machines throughout the East

Lilberty, Homewood, and Garfield Sections of pittsburgh where

ROONEY was not operating. According to

ROONEY, who Is

the present owner of the

Pittsburgn Steelers, protessional

football'

club, was the only man who could get paste reels

before In ROCCA tried, and controlled the entire pittsburgh

vicinity In this regard.

said that the Government

placed a $100 tax stamp on each mächine

and the city of

Plttsburgh put a $50 tax stamp on each machine.

He said that

other owners of the company, in addition to himself and LA

ROCCA, were FRANK ANATO, BARNEY MC GINLEY, SAMUEL. MANNARINO,

and F.

W. Zood, the latter from Chicago.

JFK Act 6 (4)

advised

that the company was doing well financially

before Allegheny County authorities raided establishments

where the machines had been placed and forced It out of

business.

He "recalled that, although each of the six afore-

mentioned individuals owned

an

equal share in the company,

SAM MANNARINO and LA ROCCA seemed to run everything and held

meetings at which important subjects were discussed in Italian,

which he did not understand.

He advised that he realized

methods and

that In Rocca bas only using him for his proven protection

did not mind as long as he got his cut

of the profits. He recalled that during 1946 or 1947, MIKE

GENOVESE came on the scene. He stated that this individual

had been a pickup man for LA ROCCA in the East Liberty-Homewood

Section of

to

Pittsburgh and was a tough kid who. according

"was almost begging to go to jail.

LA ROCCA turned GENOVESE over to him and asked

He said

to "keep

him clean" because he had him in mind for future plans.

He recalled that FRANK VALENTI, who was present at the

Apalachin conference of hoodlums, and ANTONIO RIPEPI, a

Pittsburgh hoodlum, visited the offices of the Coin Machine

Distributing Company regularly and always took orders from

MANNARINO and LA ROCCA:

He said RIPEPI was a more important

racket man than VALENTI but that LA ROCCA seemed to be the

key man in the Pittsburgh area.: He said he would place

6

HH

45836 DooId:32332997 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-226

NAME

DONALD P.

TURNER

2130 W. Pike St.

Houston, Pa.

FRANK J. CIROCCO

1212 Arch St.

Pittsburgh 12, Pa.

JACOB S. GEORGE

5403 Butler St.

Pittsburgh 1, Pa.

JOSEPH E. BRYAN

439 Kathleen St,

Pittsburgh 1, Pa.

LOUIS R. SAALINGER

709 Maytide St.

Pittsburgh 10, Pa.

• STEPHEN JENCA

5206 Natrona Way

Pittsburgh 1, Pa.

ROY L. VEY

1153 Cornell St.

Pittsburgh

12, Pa.

ORLANDO M. PRINCIPE

4204 Main St

Pittsburgh 24, Pa.

JOHN IRWIN

2503 5th Ave.

Pittsburgh 19, Pa.

SOCIAL

SECURITY NUMBER

ANNUAL INCOME

234-56-8841

331.32

184-14-4258

1, 539.97

190-24-7201

3,132.38

177-18-9068

1,306.18

164-28-1015

1,285.13.

167-10-4008

989.00

188-18-9241

5, 300.00

194-28-0383

896.27

185-12-4668

1,531.72

20

HH

45836

DooId: 32332997 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PG 92-226

NAME

SOCIAL

SECURITY NUMBER

ANNUAL INCOME

LEONARD A. YAGATICH

1424 Fallowfield 'Ave.

Pittsburgh 16, Pa.

203-22-3715

2,566.79

ROBERT THACKER

226 Sylvania St.

Pittsburgh, Pa.

178-26-6365

2,155.73

AUGUST BULLION

5223 Berlin Way

PIttsburgh 1, Pa.

278-28-3867

483.45

CARMELO TRAPANI

4776 Sciota St.

Pittsburgh 24, Pa.

165-26-2632

1,369.30

OLIVER E. SHERWOOD

1509 Celtic St..

Pittsburgh 10, Pa.

187-30-5880

39.60

LEROY W. WILLIAMS

543 Rosedale St.

Pittsburgh: 21, Pa.

160-22-9414

608.51

FRANCIS J. ROGALSKI

461 Robinson Court

Pittsburgh 13, Pa.

173-16-5201

255.54

PG T-8, who has expressed an unwillingness to appear before

any future Federal or state proceedings, advised that his

(recoras indicate that JOHN S. LA ROCCA is the President of

the North Star Cement Block Co., Inc., at 12 McCandless

Ave., Rear, Pittsburgh 1, Pa. He said his records further.

indicate that ALMO PRUNER 1s the Vice President, ALDO A

PRUNER 18 the Secretary and ROY L, VEY IS, the Treasurer.

He stated that his records further indicate the following:

21

HH

45836 DocId: 32332997

Page 7

---

## Page 8

RAV/ jab

PG 92-226

Son

Date of birth

Adopted

Brother

Date of birth

Place of birth

Residence

Employed

Brother

Place of Birth

Place of Birth

Residence

Employed

Naturalized

Brother

Address

Owner

Sister

Marital Status

Children

Residence

Sister

Sister

Father

Mother

FBI Number

45836

DooId:32332997 Page 8

JOHN LA ROCCA

October I, 1943

IN HOWARD LESLIE HOFFMAN

February 25; 1944, at Greensburg,

through Westmoreland Orphans

Court

ANTHONY LA ROCCA

May 14, 1912

Whiskey Run, Indiana County

6323 Glenvlew Place,

Pittsburgh

Barber, 8003 Meknight Road,

Pittsburgh

JOSEPH IA ROCCA

August

4, 1893

Villa Rosa, Caltanesetta,

Sicily, Italy

835 Farragut Street,

Pittsburgh

Barber, Penn and Shady

Avenues,

Pittsburgh

Court o1

Common Pleas

Indiana County, March 5, 1924

JOHN J. IA ROCCA

118-20 Walnut Street,

Johnstown, Pa.

Keystone Vending Co.,

Johnstown, Pa.

LEONA ROSE

Widow

3

With daughter,

Mes. ANGELO

RICCI, Broadhead Road,

Glenwillard, Pa.

Mrs. ROSE CONTT

380 Rose Avenue, Buffalo,

New York

Mrs. ANGELINE ZITTO,

Baltimore, Maryland

TANAZIO, deceased, died

1937, Philadelphia

ROSARIA, deceased,,

1942,

Pittsburgh

96725

73#

---

## Page 9

RAV : mef

(1)

PG 92-226

B. ASSOCIATES

Among the more prominent currently close associates of LA ROCCA

are the foliowing individuals:

Samue

Mannarino, aka.

This Individual is an extremely close associate or lA ROCCA

who presently nestes at a lane New Kensington

He and his brother, GABRIEL,

-and Westmoreland County areas as

far as the rackets are

•concerned and are closelyallied with the GENOVESE-LA ROCCA

organization in the pittsburgh area. MANNARINO Is a former

business associate of LA ROCCA who, according to PG T-3,

who has reavested that his Identity remain confidential,

JFK Law 11(a)

He is presently a subject in a case entitled, "BERNARD

J. EZHAYA, ET AL, ITSP-MT," which Involves the theft of

$2,250,000 in bearer bonds and an unknown amount of registered

bonds, jewelry, and cash from the Brockville Trust and

Savings Company, Brockville, Ontario, Canada,

. on May 3 - 4, 1958.

The trial in this matter is

presetly keing conducted at

Chicago,

MANNARINO was interviewed by Bureau

Agents of the Pittsburgh office upon his arrest on

July 2, 1959, at which time he declined to make any statement

,and would only engage in general conversation..

It can be

said that MANNARINO. 1s both a business and social acquaintance

Of LA ROCCA

y Gabrie

Mannarino, aka..

This individual, known to his close associates as

"'KELLY,"

resides at 540 Charles Street, New Kensington, Pa.

and is

the younger brother of SAMUEL MANNARINO.

social associate of LA ROCCA and is a business associate

also,

as far as criminal activity is concerned.. He was present

at the Apalachin conference of hoodlums during December.

1957, and on June 11, 1959, appeared with LA ROCCA before.

the Senate Select Committee on Improper Activities In

the Labor or. Management Field of the United States, where

8

93-2940-133

45836 DooId:32332997

Page 9

---

## Page 10

RAV : me f

(5)

PG 92-226

During past interviews with Bureau Agents of the Pittsburgh

Office he has been completely uncooperative and has instructed

his fellow officials at North Star to act in a similar

manner.

It is not known whether he actually owns any part

of the LA ROCCA holdings.

Rotter

This Individual presently (resides at 1153-Cornell Street,

PIttsburgh, Pa. and 1s considered the deneral Plant Manager

of the North Star Cement Block Company at 12 McCandless

Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. PG T-3 has advised

JER Law 11(a)

Aldo

and Almo

Pruner

These Individuals are oficials at the North Star Cement Block

Company and list their address as 653 Bower H1l] Road, Bridgevz11e,

Pa. PG T-3 bas advised

Salvatore

(Marino, aka: to

This individuals

resides at 755 Willow Glen Way,

San Jose,

• California, and 1s a partner

in. the California Cheese

-Company with his son, ANGELO MARINO.

The company is located

at 295 West San Carlos Street, San Jose. A social associate

Of LA ROCCA, MARINO was interviewed by Bureau Agents of the

san francisco Office during 1959 at which time he stated

that LA ROCCA visited him in 1954 and traveled to Los Angeles,

California, with him. He recalled that they were taken in for

questioning by the Los Angeles Police Department while in

the company of. one FRANK DE. SIMONE, an acquaintance,

and

12

93-2940133

HH

45836 DocId: 32332997 Page 10

---

## Page 11

PG 92-226

C. LECITINATE ENTERPRISES

" North Star Cement Block Company

12 McCandless Ave • Pittsburg, Pa.

Records of the Prothonotary's office, Allegheny County, Pa.i

City-County Building, Pittsburgh, were checked on December 19,

1957, and the following information concerning the North

Star Cement Block Co., Is recorded In Prothonotary's Record,

Volume 120, Page 139, Certificate No. 38421, which may be

obtained by subpoena directed to DAVID D. ROBERTS,

prothonotary, Allegheny County, Pittsburgh.

The

type of business is indicated as manufacture and sale

aS NICHOLAS DI PASQUALE, 175 Georgetown St. West VIew.

Pa.; THEODORE P. RUPUPI, 217 Andrew Sto, Pittsburgh®

URSULA RIPEPI,

, 4720 Brownsville Road, Pittsburgh, and JOHN S.

LA ROCCA, R. F6 D. 7, Pittsburgh 29,.

Fa.

These records indicate that the Certificate was filed on

May 28, 1951, by NICHOLAS DI PASQUALE and that & Certificate

of Withdrawal of NICHOLAS DI PASQUALE was fIled February 10,

1952, and wasdated as of November 30, 1951.

PO T=5,

who has requested that his identity be concealed,

advised

JFK Law 11(a)'

Records of the Immigration and Naturalization Service at

Pittsburgh, were examined on December 16 1917 and

disclosed

that at a hearing on August 3›.

LA ROCCA

testified that he owned a forty-seven and one-half percent

INS

REVIEWED BY SWJFK TASK FORCE

ON

9129147da8

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

17

997940:133

HH

45836

DocId: 32332997

Page 11

---

## Page 12

PG 92-226

Interest in the North Star Cement Block Co., that forty-

seven and one half percent of the company was owned by

TONY RIPEPI and that the remaining five percent was

owned by THEODORE REPEPI,

a nephew of Tony.

PG T-6

who has requested that his identity be concealed,

on April 25, 1961. advised

This source also advised that on income tax returns

filed for the years 1951 through 1960,

• LA ROCCA claimed

1952

1953

1954

1955

1956

1957

1958

1959

JFK Law 11(a)

18

502-2440-133

HH

45836

DooId: 32332997 Page 12

---

## Page 13

PG 92-226

The source advised

JFK Law 11(a)

PG T-T, who has requested that his identity be concealed

and expressed an unwillingness to appear before any

future Federal or State proceeding, advised that the

following individuals are employed by SEBASTIAN JOHN LA

ROCCA at the North Star Cement Block Co., 12 MeCandless

Ave., Pittsburgh,' Pa.:

SOCIAL

NAME

SECURITY NUMBER

ANNUAL INCOME

ANTHONY SCIORILLI

112 North Matilda St

Pittsburgh

24, Pa.

190-10-3019

FRED S. WOODFORK

614 Vanilla Way

Pittsburgh 6, Pa.

206-03-5406

HERMAN A. SMITH

254 Meyran Ave.

Pittsburgh 13, Pa.

167-01-2425

CLEMENT H. REDSHAW

105 Manville Dr.

Pittsburgh 37, Pa.

199-10-9861

FRANKLIN K. BULLION

5270 Butler St.

Pittsburgh 1, Pa.

410-36+3604

ROBERT E. CAVALLUÇCIA

255 Service Way

Pittsburgh 1.

Pa.

200-20-4682

ALBERT J. MASLEN

183 Burrows St.

Pittsburgh 13, Pa.

200-07-0420

$7,123.65

3,823.34

6,259.01

5,035.45

4,514.88

5,058.62

4,668.36

19

92-2940-133

HH

45836 DooId:32332997 Page 13

---

## Page 14

PG 92-226

Is held by JOHN J. LA ROCCA.

G T- 6, who requested that his identity be conceated

a April 25, 1961, advised tha

JEK Law.11 (a)

This source advised that on his 1960 income tax return

JOHN S LA ROCCA,

This source further advised that the 1960 income tax

teturn for Keystone Saless Inc.

25

922940133.

45836

DooId: 32332997 Page 14

---

## Page 15

PG 92-226

JEK Law 11(a)

PG T-11, who has requested that his identity be concealed,

on April 27, 1961, advised that Keystone Sales, Inc.

604 Franklin St. Johnstown, Pats

was incorporated with

250 shares having a par value of $100 per share and

authorized capital stock of $25,000. This source advised

that little information is available

concerning the

structure or activities of Keystone Saless.

Ind., and

that it is estimated that the corporation

as of

Mays 1960,

had $5,000 cash on hand and $85,000 In equipment and

supplies.

The president of the corporation was reported

to De JOSEPH REGINO and the Vice-President was reported

to be MILDRED REGINO, the wife of JOSEPH. .

The Secretary

of the corporation was reported to be JANET LEBER. The

Treasurer was indicated as JOHN I. LA ROCCA.

PG T- 12, who has requested that his identity be concealed,

advised on April 27, 1901, that Keystone sales, Inco, a

cigarette vending machine company, located at 604 Franklin

St., Ibhnstown, maintains a checking account at the U.S:

National Bank, In Johnstown, and that approximately $25,000

is deposited to the account monthly. The persons

authorized to sign checks of the corporation are indicated

on bank records as JOSEPH REGINO, JOHN J. LA ROCCA and

RAYMOND C. MIRTO.

Records concerning the account or accounts of Keystone .

Sales, Inc., may bet obtained through a subpoena directed

to E.

Lo EDWARDS, Vice-President, U.S. National Bank,

Franklin St., Johnstown, Pa.

Records of Keystone sales, Inc..

may be obtained through

subpoena directed to JOSEPH REGINO, President of the

corporation.

26

92-2440133

HH

45836 DooId:32332997 Page 15

---

## Page 16

FEA/bac

(1)

PG 92-226

3. Rental Properties

PG T-3, who has requested that his identity not

be

on

February 10, 1961, advised

revealed,

JFK Law 11(a)

PG T- 6, who has

requested that his identity not be revealed,

advised on April 14, 1961, that JOHN S. LA ROCCA on his

Income tax returns for the period from 1953 through 1960

Year

1953

1954

1955

1956

1957

1958

1959

PG T- 9, who has requested that his identity not be revealed,

advised

that JOHN

S. LA ROCCA maintains a real estate account

at the Washington Trust Office of the Western Pennsylvania

National Bank and that

the balance in this account as of April 18,

1961, was $15,636.82.

27

92-2940-133

HH

45836 DocId: 32332997

Page 16

---

## Page 17

FEA/bac

(2)

PO 92-226

Information from records of the Washington Trust Office of

the Western Pennsylvania National Bank may be obtained.

through a subpoena directed to STANLEY F. DRUTIS, Vice

President, Western Pennsylvania National Bank and

Manager

of the Washington Trust Office, 821 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh,

Pa.

4.

Former Legitimate Enterprises

PG I-6, who has requested that his identity not be

revealed,

advised on April 14. 1961. that SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA

reported

during the

years indicated:

Years

Name of Company

1941-1944

1945-1946

1947

JFK Law 11(a)

1948-1950

1951

1952

28

92.2940-133.

74 45836

DooId:32332997 Page 17

---

## Page 18

FEA/bac

(3)

PG 92-226

1953

1954-1956

1957-1959

1960

Name of Company

Information concerning Income reported by Ll ROCCA on income

tax returns may be obtained by a subpoena directed to the

District Director of Internal Revenue at PIttsburgh, Pa.

5.:

Alleged Sources of Income

PG I-6, who has requested that his identity not be revealed.

advised on April 14, 1961, that

JEK Law 11(a)

This source advised that

29

92-2940-133

NW 45836 DooId:32332997 Page 18

---

## Page 19

FEA/Pjw

(3)

PG

92-226

PG T 6, who requested that his identify not be revealed,

advised on Abril 25. 1961.

JFK Law 11(a)

2

on December 52, 1900, Miss ALYCE TAFELSKI, Receptionist,

Credit Bureau,

Inc.,: Pittsburgh, Pa., advised that her

records indicate six

judgments filed in Allegheny

County by the Washington Trust Company and subsequently

assigned to

the Western Pennsylvania National Bank

which related to JOHN S. LAROCCA and MARY S. LAROCCA

which she listed as follows:

1. April Term, 1955

January Term, 1956

Term, 1956

4. January Term, 1957

5. April Term, 1957

6. July Term, 1957

$ 6,600

16,500

6,600

49,500

5,175

23, 000

Brookline Savings and Trust Company

820 Brookline Boulevard

Pittsburgh 26, Pa.

PG T 6, who has requested that his identity not be revealed,

advised on April 14, 1961, that on an income tax return

for the year 1959 filed by JOHN S. LAROCCA, LAROCCA

-38

92-2940133

45836 DocId: 32332997

Page 19

---

## Page 20

PG 92-226

FEA/ cpg

(1)

G. STATEMENT OF ASSETS

The following Information concerning assets and liabilities of

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA has been obtained from various sources

and all sources have been previously identified or information

set forth as to persons to be subpoenaed to produce records or

testify to support information reported. The information is

presented in summary form and inasmuch as values presented

to revision as more specific and accurate information 1s

developed:

ASSETS

Cash in Bank

Stock Holdings

-;

JEK Law 11(a)

Real Estate

43

92-2440133

NW 45836 DooId: 32332997 Page 20

---

## Page 21

PG 92-226

FEA/ cpg

(2)

ASSETS (CONT'd)

Receivables

Miscellaneous

JFK Law 11(a)

TOTAL ASSETS

LIABILITIES

Loans Payable

NET WORTH

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH

44

92-2940-133

HH

45836

DocId: 32332997

Page 21

---

## Page 22

PG 92-226

checked for a record under the North Star Cement Block

Manufacturing Co.,

the Coin Machine Distributing Company, Inc.,

Bulk Beverages, Inc., Coin Machine Distributing Company, and

Beer Dispensing Company®

3. -

FALSELY CLAIMING CITIZENSHIP

Investigation has been conducted and is contimuing to locate

any application submitted by LA ROCCA on which he may have

indicated his citizenship.

Records of the Small Business Administration at Pittsburgh,

Pa., have been checked and no record of any

kind

was found for

LA ROCCA. Investigation 1s being conducted

an effort to

determine 1f he has registered a firearm in

the State of

Pennsylvania since the application for such registration provides

for indication of citizenship or naturalization. Consideration

1s also being given to locating a citizenship designation on

an application submitted by LA ROCCA to National or Federally

Insured banks

or lending Institutions.

4. INCOME TAX MATTERS

According to PG T- 6

, who has requested that his identity

remain confidential,

JEK Law 11la)

50

92-2940133

14 45836

DooId: 32332997 Page 22

---

## Page 23

PG 92-226

EK Law 11(a)

PG T- 13, who has requested that his identity be concealed,

advised on April 14,

1961, that records of the Brookline Savings

and Trust Company, 820 Brookline Blvd., Pittsburgh, Pa.s

disclosed accounts for the Beer Dispensing Co., 1305 Penn

Pittsburgh 22, Pa., and Bulk Beverages,

Craig St., Pittsburgh 13, Pa.

Reserve account and a Beer Dispensing Company Earned Reserve

account were opened in 1951, and closed on July 13, 1959, by

the issuances of Brookline check, No. 3665, in the amount of

$277.50, payable to Beer Dispensing Company This check

was endorsed, Pay to the Order of

'" JOHN S. LAROCCA, Beer

Dispensing Company."" The check also bore the stamp of the

•Western Pennsylvania National Bank. The officers of Beer

51

92-2940153

NW 45836 DooId: 32332997

Page 23

---

## Page 24

PG 92-226

The records indicate that the monthly payment was $189.50g

although payments of $190 or more were made subsequent

June of 1956.

Payments of $5,190 were made on February 26,

1957, and April 29, 1957.

Records of the South Pittsburgh Savings and Loan Association

should not be made public in the absence of a subpoena directed

tO J. DOUGLAS DOLE, Executive Vice-President and Treasurer,

South Pittsburgh Savings and Loan Association, 1712 East Carson

St., Pittsburgh.

5. Interstate Transportation of Stolen Property

PG T- 6, who has requested that his Identity not be revealed,

advised on April 28, 1961,

Law 11(a)

55

92-9940133

45836

DooId: 32332997

Page

24.

---

## Page 25

RAV/ jab

PG 92-226

Information Relating to Alleged Arrest of Adopted Son

LA ROCCA for Violation of Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code.

PG I- 16, who requested that his identity remain confidential

and who

has stated that he will not appear before any future

Federal or State proceedings, advised that during one vacation

weekend enjoyed in Pittsburgh by the adopted son of lA RoccA,

who is attending Valley Forge Military Academy at Wayne, Pa.,

he was arrested by the Pennsylvania State Police for either

disorderly conduct or violation of the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle

Code. He stated that he believes a trooper working out of the

Warrendale, Pa. +

barracks made the arrest after he observed young

LA ROCCA driving along a highway near his home and throwing empty

beer bottles out of the window while attaining high speed.

He

said he understood LA ROCCA became incensed when he could

not

change the charges and when a local Justice

the Peace

gave young LA ROCCA "the full

treatment."

Corporal ANTHONY KALEITA, Pennsylvanta State Police Barracks,

Warrendale, Pa., advised

on April 14s

1961, that a review of

records from January 1, 1961, to that time failed to reflect

his

any record of an Individual named IA ROCCA for any violation

whatsoever. He suggested that this individual may have been

arrested by another law enforcement agency and that the local

Justices of the Peace in the Ingomar, Pa., vicinity be

contacted in this regard.

Information Relating to Recent Travel of LA ROCCA.

PG T-6 has advised

JEK Law

11(a).:

71

45836

DooId: 32332997

Page 25

---

## Page 26

PG 92-226

PITTSBURCH

AT PITTSBURGH, PA. (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

Will follow and report activities of JOHN LA ROCCA and his

associates In accordance with Bureau instructions.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Information contained in this report concerning possible

Antitrust violations has been previously submitted by

closing report dated 4/26/61 entitled,

"Western Pennsylvania

Cement Block Association, Pittsburgh, Pa.,"

' Pittsburgh file 60-474.

Information contained in this report regarding information of

possible value to the Internal Revenue Service has been

furnished to the Intelligence Unit of the Internal Revenue

Service at Pittsburgh, Pa.

JFK Act 6 (4)

INFORMANTS

PG T-1 1s Legat, Rome, Italy, who obtained Information from

DE. COSTANTINO FONTANA, Central Bureau, Italian Criminal

Police, Rome, Italy, on 4/18/58:

PG T-2 15

a potential criminal informant

of the Pittsburgh Office who was contacted by SA ROBERT A.

VOEGE on 2/27/58

PG T-3 18 GEORGE STRAKA, an Internal Revenue Agent attached

to the Fraud (Racket) Section, Room 027 Fulton Building,

Pittsburgh, Pa., who was contacted by SA VOEGE on 3/0/01

and who has requested that his identity be concealed.

PG T-4 1S. PG 585-6, who was

contacted by SA VEGE on

2/19/58, 3/7/58 and 3/11/58.

PG T-5 1s ROBERT F. MEHRLING, an employee of the Internal

Revenue Service, Pittsburgh,

Pa.,

who was contacted by

SA GENE H. STUDEBAKER on 12/10/57•

PG T-6 1S ROBERT MADDEN, Special Agent, Intelligence Unit,

Internal Revenue Service, Pittsburgh,

who was contacted

by SAA FRANK E. ALLISON on 4/6, 14 and 25/61.

-B-

COVER PAGE

92.2940133

HH

45836 DocId: 32332997

Page 26

---

## Page 27

RAV : mef

(1)

PG 92-226

DETAILS:

A.

PERSONAL HISTORY AND BACKGROUND

I. Birth Data

PG T-1, who requested that his Identity remain confidential,

and who stated

that he will not testlfy at any future

Rederal or state proceedings, advised that SEBASTIAN LA ROCCA, .

the son of IGNAZIO and ROSARIA SCANCARELLO,

was born at

VIlla Rosa, Italy, on December 19, 1901, and that he departed

from villa

Rosa prior to 1927, the year in which the registration.

of the inhabitants of that community was begun.

II. Education

PG T-l advised that it was not possible to áscertain whether

or not LA ROCCA réceived any formal schooling during the time

that he was in Italy. On February 13, 1958, FLOVD 0. SMITH,

Supervising Principal, and THOMAS J. ADDLEMAN,

High Schoo1

Principal, both of Shannock Valley Joint School District,

which includes Yatesboro, Pa., where LA ROCCA formerly resided;

advised that the old Yatesboro School had been abandoned and.

that records of attendance were not available for students

who attended from thirty to forty years ago.

Both advised

that, although they had been residents of the Rural Valley-

Yatesboro area for forty or more years, they could not recall

any family named LA ROCCA.

III.. Residence

LA ROCCA presently resides

at 900 West Ingomar Road, Ingomar,

Pa. Although the front of his residence faces Ingomar Road,

his driveway and the most easily accessible portion of his

residence faces Brant Avenue and this address 1s sometimes

utilized by him.

Mrs. CHRISTOPHER MAGEE STEEL, 5652 Stanton Avenue, Pittsburgh,

Pa., has advised that she first became acquainted

l with LA ROCCA

when she and her husband sold their home at Ingomar, Pa:, to

him.. She furnished details of the sale and advised

that she

did not realize that she was selling directly to a racketeer

2

58-0940-133

HItT

45836 DocId: 32332997 Page 27

---

## Page 28

PG 92-226

The source advised

JFK Law 11(a)

PC T-T, who has requested that his identity be concealed

and expressed an unwillingness

to appear before any

future Federal or State proceeding, advised that the

following individuals are employed

by SEBASTIAN JOHN LA

ROCCA at the North Star Cement Block Co., 12 MeCandless

Ave., Pittsburgh,' Pa.:

SOCIAL

NAME

SECURITY NUMBER

ANNUAL INCOME

ANTHONY SCIORILLI

112 North Matilda Sto

Pittsburgh

24, Pa.

190-10-3019

$7,123.65

FRED S. WOODFORK

614 Vanilla Way

Pittsburgh 6, Pa.

206-03-5406

3,823.34

HERMAN A. SMITH

254 Meyran Ave.

Pittsburgh 13, Pa.

167-01-2425

6,259.01

CLEMENT H. REDSHAW

105 Manville Dr.

Pittsburgh 37, Pa.

199-10-9861

5,035.45

PAL.

FRANKLIN K. BULLION

5270 Butler St.

Pittsburgh 1, Pa.

410-36-3604

4,514:88

ROBERT E. CAVALLUCCIA

255 Service Way

Pittsburgh 1, Pa.

200-20-4682

5,058.62

ALBERT J. MASLEN

183 Burrows St.

, PIttsburgh 13, Pa.

200-07-0420

4,668.36

19

92-2940-133

HH 45836 DocId: 32332997

Page 28

---

