# docid-32308048

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10293-10406

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

63-7985-2ND NR 86

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOJ

FROM: [Restricted]

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 01/24/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/24/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS:

REFERRED TO DOJ

v9.1

DocId: 32308048

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 41-14-2017

1/24/63

39°

FEB

DITOETOr

Fodoral Buscou of Invourigation

Horbert do Mizor, Sto

Aodistant Attornay Conoral, Grindnal Division

TASTEL FLISION FUID LIVESFIGATION

CHICAGO, IRRINOIS

Roforence la mde to tho report of apocal Afont

mama 1i. Droy (A), Handorfico, detod January 86, 1963.

entitled,

JORDO RiddlO HolSaL Inan 8. Manors NIco ao

DorSernpE Lare 11LO 62-1956, BusSO 63-79850

mo abovo sogare on pago l indiesto that tonrid 6.

Plotto plaecd a parisaanoe bond vath roarioso uncuranes

Company fOr Rachury A. Strato for thO contruction of tho

addition to cho Pontainblosu notor loral, pou lilose,

Loutalana, a roelplant of a Tauritor Fannon Fund loan.

additlo:, Plotto apparantly placed an indomification bond

for barron 1o Rose. Hurran A. Roco toutified botoro the

Chicago Pansion Fund grand jury that ho and Strato had difficulty

In obtaintag a construction bond to bulld tho Pentainodicou

oddition and Strate ankad Ban Dronen for halo. brunow

that tho bonding company sirod tho agont uno did this. de 10

notcd that tho abovo soport on pugo 12. indiestos ano. Joha

Quinan, o onotino forlose roprovontativo in idan, voo

Posught upt in e managamont chango, moh so tho 1101110 os

Donald Porto, Gidnan 10 paid to be nor employod by tho

Antional Grange Insurance Commny La Nocro, Ho Hangohiro.

In vor of tho information funiobod by Markon A. Rooo,

1t 1a roquonica that Plotte to roantonlead and appropriato

leguiry to ande of the Paarloso Insuranco Company and John Quiran

so dotardos any further avallablo dorails of tho soporica

Penitroblo bond trancaction and un othor lafontler

concorning the fanaion Fund activelon of Bandardn Dranor, Cal

Hovano, so Gargo surro, Abo voinhlatt, 290hnry Strato vod

Bunal lynn, all of than aro prinelpal oubjocto la tho chiergo

Fondon fund imodulgation.

63-7985-

63-7985

NOT RECORDED

HE SÂN SO 1963

files-com

DocId: 32308048

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 note).

DATE 4 11-14-2017

.).*

- 2 a

It 10 also notod that the above report on page 11

states that "ged% Strate Introduced Plotts to Janes Riddle

Hotta in the Americans lotol. It is requested that more

details be obtainod concerning this incident, including the

rature and degroo of association botreon Pletts and Strate,

representations made by Strate to Plotte rogarding lida

association with loffa, any spoolife lunguago used by Strato

so Botto and lotta at this theo, on this oceurred, rise

Oldo tao present and any otatanto rade by Mr. Holla. 5t

should be noted that the Fondion Fund fruitoos mat at tho

DocId: 32308048

Page

---

