# docid-32423734

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/25/201

AGENCY:

ARMY

RECORD NUMBER :

198-10005-10016

RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Released under the John

•. kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

{44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NU, 54214 Date:

09-11-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

ARMY

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

ARMY CONTACTS WITH CUBAN ACTIVIST GROUPS

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/28/1963

2

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS

ALPHA 66 GROUP

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1A

Redact

10/07/1997

Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 2. Fact Sheet regarding Army contacts with Cuban exile groups:

including Alpha 66, prepared for the Secretary of Defense.

v9.1

HH 54214 DocId: 32423734

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-SECREF

INCT CHEST

CACeT/Colloeuion Div

It Col Daugherty /27053

28 Marco 1953

salutat Aery Contcere Mica Colan Activias Gresps (C)

10:

Toe Socrocory of Dafesse

To tafona tho Seatolozy el Dolonce en tho surroos contesto made

taiond by Amy vich Cubas salto groapo sho bovo baso engaging do solde

0g0an0G Good:

FACTS

%: (S) Fellowina do e aysopato el Any contects with Aipba-66 and

aplinter cocupas

8. ALLA SE:

Consiss use taletelly esteblished on 20 Octobas

1962 with snotinga vish dstonto VICkakk, the overt lander of the group.

She purpose of these

and cubsoquous montago too to explote the orgated.

ticso potonesel to abtato intelligenca inforsation fron Cuba, Centeeto bave

bobbaqueatly abatianed

mochers of the Alpad-de

Tute optatar group of Mphe-66

san crested

in dinne

shoa senters of Alphi-56 refered to follon Fredana becauso

ba proposed

anoigancases os Aipha 66 with Che Second Front of the

Bacnainey

*Plotogn

estl-Gaotro

They Antelally called Chancelves

Iss comandos of tho

so purportedly bonando *+ C831403-2iernos, tbo apprenched the deny

an 19 Karca: 1963, and olfered to cooperate la teriabing infomation.

roquect foon the Sold unit fos guidonce and racetved on

: 27 Herch 1963,

bat: Do pooponse ban boca mode-

This wit

with hipho-60 chous Jeno 196%9

and all lany contaese

manhaze allocadly belonging so Alphs-66.

(sy

consolidesed

nade tast

shed dad Conta purportod pesitions are co

fellowas

Eloy ODELETEL-Senoyo, a sogistered Aray counce,

, tha mon londer

of tho Atphs-66 Second Front of ele Recantray.

Antonio VICAl, & roslatered Anny possca; the

overt londor and

mabile

apohenan fer Aapbs-06,

193A.

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS:

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.10

0/2725

54214

DocId: 32423734

Page 2

---

## Page 3

202004

e sastatared Aruy couros, the decond fe comand

of Alphe 66*

6. Angel

60 -

Pantoje, cogitration requeated, a acubor of Alpho

€* holsos 1126810, rosteesactos sequestel, tadio sas ot Alghe-66.

fe Lenerto

noo-Petroo, tho lentes Os Constado 1-60.

oceacion test Caroter.

Anny hao givan no sunctios, approvas, de vapgort

co cha Mighn-de groug

• La tho conduct of theas ratda,

Aseted Abovo •

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS:

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.10

HH 54214

DocId: 32423734

Page 3

---

