# docid-32280943

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act ot 1992 711 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10147-10173

RECORD_ SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-1435-163, 162

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/15/1968

• PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-126032-132

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/03/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE: 02/09/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

INC 1 A/T AND 1 LHM

DocId: 32280943

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the Johm

DATE: 11-11-2017

Assassinati

Records

1992 444 050

Hotel.

1/15/66

AIRTEL

(JFK) 3/201416

DECLASSIY ON: 25X_(076)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (205-82555)

11/5193 5470 HBR/GATSFI

3+22-93

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (105-38431)

Cha: 9503 ROO AT

SUBJECT: LAE HARVEY OSWALD

IS R

Declassity on:

JFK SPECIAL

Enclosed for the Bureau are ten copied

of en

LIM reflecting

the invitation by MARINA OSWALD PORTIR

for her

• Father

to visit the United states.

There 1s

also enclosed two copies of this LiM

for the Dallas

office.

a highly confidential and sensitive source.

In view of the highly

sensitive source in the

LEM,

the IHM 1s being classifted

"Secret-llo Foreign

Dissemination"

INFORMATION FROM THIS HIGHLY SENSITIVE SOURCE

MUST BE MOSE CAREFULLY FARAPHRASID TO PROTECT THE SOURCH

AND ANY INFORMITION DISSEMIVNIDO DUISTOE THE BURBAU

SHOULD BE CLASSIVLEU ICRET - NO FORETON DISSEVINATION. "

Bureau

(Encs • 10) (R$D

Dallas

(100-10461) Enes.V) (AM)

New York.

ICK:Erb

(8)

I Assign

1-19-68

C: ::

STAY CONTANED

FIED

105-1435-163

SEARCHED. +**

.. INDEXED....

SERIALIZED,

BLHILED..

JAN 1 6 1968

FBI-DALI

Pita

DocId: 32280943

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the Joh

GATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

SECRET

NY 105-38431

On 7/14/68

NY 1529-S*

highly confidentiall

(S)

and sensitive source,

who has furnished reliable infor-

mation in the past, advised that on that date a hrs.

MARINA PORTER, Dallas, Texas, was in contact with her

father, ALEKSANDR IVANOVICH MEDVEDEV, Apartment 43,

Obvodney Kanal 80, Leningrad, USSR.

Mes, PORTER iden-

tifled herself as

Mrs. KENNETH PORTER and le apparently

the widow of LEE HARVEY OSWALD.

In addition to being in

contact with her father,

Mes. PORTER was in contact with her sister TANYA and a

brother PHR.

Mrs. PORTER indicated that she has three

children: MARINA, SIx years old; RACHEL, age 4 and MARK

age 1. She indicated she has forgotten much of her

Russian and that she will be 27 years of age on 7/17/68.

She advised that her husband, KENNETH PORTUR, 1€ 29.

inquired if her relatives in

the USSR received a package

that she had sent two ycars ago.

They advised that such

a package had been received.

she indicated

that her

husband and children do not speak. Russian.

$ (И

Mrs. PORTER invited her father to

• visit

her

1n

the United States, as her guest and that she will pay for

his transportation.

She suggested that if he wanted to come

to the United states, he should write to the U.s. Embassy.

Mrs. PORTER was advised that her father had recently

married.

They all expressed their nutual well being and

affection for one another:

Mrs. PORTER stated that she is healthy and very

happy. She indicated that she loves her husband and he

loves

her.

she described him as tall, black hair and

beautiful

eyes:

She stated that she has a very nice home

consisting of three bedrooms

two baths, & Kitchen, dining-

room and a large garden.

(P)(u)

- 20

DocId: 32280943 Page 3

---

