# docid-32294196

## Page 1

JFK Assassination Systern

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10212-10472

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-198690-1, 2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

SAC, SJ

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/30/1969

ELC, ACA, GUNS, SALE, UNK INDIVIDUALS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, LHM

y9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32294196

Page 1

Date:

4/29/201

Released under the John

*. kennedy

488a881nation Records

Collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Cased:NIT 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

---

## Page 2

- E.

85, 1PM ENCE 101-11. 6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-198690)

FROM

AC, SAN JUAN (105-11987) (F)

SUBJECT: UNSUBS TWO (2)

EROPOSED SALE OL ARMS TO

-EJERCITO LIBERACION CUBANO (ELC)

SM - PRN

IS - CUBA

(00: SJ)

DATE: 11/28/69

CONFIDENTIAL

87211326/ETERATO

SLUBTALECL

MATION CONTAINER

S701E0

Re San Juan airtel, 9/30/69.

On 10/17/69, ENRIQUE GONZALEZ GIRIBET, former

Ist of the suo, advised that when he

went to Ponce on

10/13/09, the El Capri Bar was closed and thus he did not

have an opportunity to further identify the owner.

He

described owner as being about 35 years of age, 5'9" and

that he no at on one 10m.

21/09, GONZALEZ waS recontacted and advisea

hat he has not been to Ponce in the past month and could

He will attempt to obtain

further information when his business trips take him to Ponce. dU)

LEADS:

DECLASSIFIED BY SOS MACISE

SAN JUAN

09. 4-0-940

Matches

AT CABO. ROJO, PUERTO RICO. Will discreetly identify

owner of local gun shop and review records of Police of Puerto

Rico (POPR) . ..

AT PONCE, PUERTO RICO. Will discreetly identify the

owner of

El Capri "Bar and check records of POPR.

AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO.

Will maintain contact with

EUGENE GONZALEZ GIRABET

+ REC

56

- Bureau (RM)

= Miami (105-7947) (into) 3(RM) ST 115

105-198690-9

5

- San Juan

• DEC & 1Y6У

1 - 105-Arms for Puerto

-134-1157)

105-9378)

(ELC)

RCB: wt1

NATABOYMO

LATIN-AMERICAN

9DEC1 9 1969

CONFIDENTIAL

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

5010-108-02

HH 53071 DoOId: 32294196 Padé 2

---

## Page 3

FD-36 (Rey. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

GAINED

1104

ALL INFORMA

HERE

="=-

EXCEE

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

1234304 ESE

челто)

Classtfied

FBI

Date: 9/30/69

CONFITAANTIAL

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

DECLASSITED BY SP.S MACULS

4-6-94

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAG,

SAN JUAN (105-NEW)

UNSUBS TWO (2)

PROPOSED SALE OF ARMS TO.

EJERCITO LIBERACION CUBANO

SM - PRN

IS - CUBA

00: SJ

plane to te

105-86-844(EGC)

(ELCICIA HAS NO CRIEPMIONTO

RELEASE DA

IN THIS DOCUME

922-97

Miami one copy of LHM dated and captioned as above.

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies and for SUOlSR

10-4-97

Local dissemination being made to U. S. Secret

Service, San Juan; Naval In estigative Service Office,

(JFK)

10th Naval District, San Juan; Office of Special Investi-

gations, Ramey Air

Force Base; 77lst Military Intelligence

Detachment,

San Juan;

United States Customs, San Juan;

and Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Unit, San Juan.

SJ I-1 is ENRIQUE GONZALEZ GIRIBET, former PSI Of

the San Juan Office.

His identity is being concealed at

his request.

Developement of GONZALEZ, was discontinued

Declas

2/- Bureau (Encl.

94 RM)

XESUNG - San Juan (105-NEW) REC- 811

1 - 105-Arms For Puerto Rial 31105-198690 -

ÖCT

13 1969

1

-

134-1157 (ENRIQUE GONZALEZ

GIRIBET)( CI

1 - EJERCITO LIBERACION CUBANO (105-9373)

H4 OCT & 1969

SG: nit

(9)

Stay av/Sert servem

Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, State

3У R/S FOr TriPO: /CC ARE RETAINtO CO

Date -10-3-69-BY-UHNLIO

LANY

Арра

+ 8

Sent

8 0 00 22 9969

1 Agent in Charge

CONFIDENTIA!

.M

Per

HH 53074 DocId: 32294196 Page 3

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

---

## Page 4

CONFiDENTIAL

SJ 105-NEW

GONZALEZ volunteered that he will be in the Ponce

area on 10/6/69 and will return to San Juan, Puerto Rico on

10/9/69.

He völunteered that he would furnish further

information to the San Juan Office on or about 10/9/69,

after he recontacts the owner of the El Capri Bar in Ponce.

This LHM is being classified CONFIDENTIAL in view

of the information furnished by SJ T-1,

the unauthorized

disclosure of which could prove inimical to the defense of

the United States.

On 9/29/67 the Office of Intelligence, Police of

Puerto Rico, was advised by SA SINECIO GUTIERREZ Of the

contents of

the LHM.

LEADS:

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Intormation copy furnished in view of interest

in this matter pertaining to the ELC.

SAN JUAN

AT CABO ROJO, PUERTO RICO

Will discreetly identify owner of local gun shop

and review

records of POPR.

AT PONCE, PUERTO RICO:

Will discreetly identify the owner of El Capri

Bar and check records of POPR.

AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO

- 2: -

CONHYANTIM

IN 53074 DocId:32294196 Pagé 4

---

## Page 5

SJ 105-NEW

CONtINENTIAL

Will maintain contact with EUGENE GONZALEZ GIRIBET NU)

JAITSO NOT

=3.

15104

CONFIDENTIAT

74 53074

DocId: 32294196 Paqé 5

---

## Page 6

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Juan, Puerto Rico

September 30, 1969

CONFIDENTIAL

UNKNOWN SUBJECTS

PROPOSED SALE OF ARMS TO

EdERCITO LIBERACION CUBANO

(CUBAN. ARMY OF LIBERACION)

(ELC)

SECURITY MATTER - PUERTO RICAN NATIONALIST

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

ALL INRORNATION CONTAINED

HERSEL UNCLASSIFIED

COP MERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

On September 29, 1969, SJ T-I, a

source contacted

an insufficient number of times

to determine reliability,

advised that he is a traveling salesman in Puerto Rico and

travels

to Ponce, Puerto Rico at least once a month.

и)

SJ T-l is an admitted member of the ELC.

in Miam

"NINO"'

The Ple is an anti-Castro group with headquarters

Florida.. The leader of this group is HIGINIO

On September 29, 1969, SJ T-l advised that he

was in Ponce, Puerto Rico

last week and he casually met

the owner of

the El Capri Bar, Carretera Penuelas, Ponce,

Ruorta RIca: horever, le dues nol eemembor his came delu)

DECLASSIFIED BY

i 4-60-4VPS moc

JFIC)

SHZIDENTIAL

$211,326

assifed by

P6 BJAGGL

X320X

OCT 13

1969

matic Delassification

respongrating

This document contains neithérorecommendations nor conclusions

of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

It is the property

of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distribited outside

your agency.

105-198690-1

ENCLOSURE

CONFIDENTIAL

HH 53071 DoOId: 32294196 Padé 6

---

