# docid-32327738

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/9/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90065-10024

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-180559-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE : :1

DATE: 05/08/1968

'PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

JUAN JORGE GARCIA CARDENAS

RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/14/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

rider.

v9.1

HW 45891 DocId: 32327738 Page 1

---

## Page 2

-

•15.

FD-263 (Rev. 38,57

arti

•

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

FICE

MIANI

ORIGIN

A MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

JUAN JORGE GARCIA CARDENAS, Aka.

DATE

€

5/8/68

REPORT MADE BY

JANES 8. O'CONNOR

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR;

18 - C0

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/21 - 5/7/68

TYPED BY

neb

_rider.

ИСТОГОВИЯТОЙ СОМЕНИ

'NESE DIS UNCLASSIFIEQ

I WHERE SHOWS

RETIRENCI: Miami letter to Diroctor, M4/68.

•P.

LEADS

MIAMI:

AT XIAKI, FLORIDA

6-7-961

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLDJKSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

i11 continue inquiry to deteraine 11 the

brother, JOSE

RICARDO GARCIA, 15 receiving hospitalization at the

". Pierce lood Menorial Hospital, Arcadia, Florida, on the basis

of the father's application to the Cuban Refugee Center, M1an1,,.

of inability to pay.

CONVIC

AUTO.

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

HOKE

ACQUIT-

RECOVERIES

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR|

DrEs X6

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

DrES

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

ILMADEI

Bureau (92-10654)

USA, Mianl (Atto: Departaental

Attorney VILLIAN G. EARLE)

.

Federal Bureau of Narcotics,

M1am1

U. 8. Customs, M18u1

V. 8. INS, MiRal

New York

(an), 832-34383

Dissemination

of Attoched Report

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105-180559-4

NOT RECORDED

128 JUN 11 1968

Notations

Agency

Roquell Recd.

• Date Fad.

55JUN 245 39

ORIGINAL FILED

GONFDENDAI

NW 45891 DocId:32327738 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-2196

CONFIDENTIAL

furnished to sAil get in hate te

Federal Bureau of Narcotics, Miami.

The Miami Office is also submitting a report

on subject in the IS - CU caption (Miami File 105-15738)

dealing with subject's activities in the violence-oriented

organization PODER CUBANO (Cuban Power) (Bufile 105-176790)

(Miami File 105-15556).

Interview of ALFONSO REY, as set forth on

report dated April 5,

CHILEAN CONSULATE, MIAMI, FLORIDA, 3/12/68, BOMBING

MATTER."

Information from REY was furnished to the

District Supervisor of the Federal Narcotics Bureau,

Atlanta, by letter dated March 25, 1968.

Interview of IGNACIO GUTIERREZ, reflected

on Page 8 - 9 of this report was also set forth in

aforementioned ieport of SA STOY dated March 12, 1968.

INFORMANTS

MM T-1 is MM [28

=S

MM T-2 is HUMBERTO TRUEBA ROJAS, interviewed

by SA WENDELL W. HALL.

This information was furnished by

SA FALL to Agent JERRY MILLER of the Federal Bureau of

Narcotics on Apr1l.17, 1968.

™M T-3 on Page ll is PCI

(Miami 137-4388)•

It is anticipated that PCI

will be turned

over to the FBN,

His potential

expressed a desire to infiltrate and work among narcotics

figures in Miami. During contacts with I

• it became

evident: he is personally acquainted with many narcotics

subjects. He particularly objects to the ilk of JUAN

GARCIA using the cause of Cuban patriotism as a cover

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

CONFIDENTIAL COVER PAGE

d00e2-105à

HW

45891 DocId: 32327738 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONFYBENHREM LIVE

MM 92-2196

for narcotics activity.

I is introduced to

FBN, Miami,

arrangement will be made to retain some

contact with him, as he also shows potential as a

CI in the Cuban fugitive field.

БОИНДЕИНИГ

CONFIDENTIAL COVER PACE

HW 45891 DocId: 32327738 Page 4

OTHER

---

