# docid-32335782

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90129-10173

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-1280-169

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53074 Date:

05-30-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 12/22/1964

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

MINUTEMEN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

1H 53074

DocId: 32335782• Page

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rov. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date: - 12/22/64

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL.

Via

(Type in plain text or coda)

AIR MAIL

(Prority.or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI: (62-107261)

SAC, DALLAS (105-1280)

MINUTEMEN

INFORIATION CONCERNING

00; KANSAS CITY

Re Dallas airtel and letterhead memorandum dated

12/17/64

Serialize

Index

- Fie

Enclosed to the Bureau are 10 coples of letterhead

memorandum captioned and dated as above. Two copies of this

letterhead memorandum are being furn shed to kansas city.

and one each furnished for the Informatton.of. san Antonio

and Houston

Investigation conducted in enclosed letterhead

memorandum was by SA

RICHARD L WIEHL.

DI T-1 IS VAN MILEY POLLARD.

The enclosed letterhead memorandum is classified

confidential inasmuch as information furnished by DhI-l

could ressonably result in the identification of a confidential

informant ot a possible continuing value and compromise his

future effectiveness. Inic,ost and secret service nave been

no are betal

adyised locally and have been furnished two copies of enclosed

letterhead memorandum

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

LEAD

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DALLAS

DATE 12/15/83 BY SPSBTI

01139

- AT FT. WORTH, TEXAS,

Maintain

POLLARD.

articontact, with VAn

AND DESID OFFICES

5 к-

Bureau Ene

10) (RN):

ADVICES DEROUTING

2: → Kansas City (Enc.

2) (RHD:

SULE (S) 9F

Houston Cene.

1). (R)

DATE

sau: Ant

raneo.

1) (RH)

Dallas

105-12800L

→ 134-338)

Approyf?

Special Agent in Charge

—M . Per,

105-1280-169

HH 53074 DocId:32335782 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-36 (Rov. 12-13-56)

'FBI

Date: : 12/22/64

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text of code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

DIRSCTOR, FBI: (62-107261)

SAC, DALLAS (105-1280)

MINUTEMEN

INFORHATION CONCERNING

00;

KANSAS CITY

Re Dallas airtel and. letterhead memorandum dated

12/17/64

Enclosed to the bureau are 10 copies of letterhead

memorandun captioned and dated as above. Two copies of this

letterhead memorandum are being furnished to Kansas City

and one each furnished for the Information of San Antonio

and Houston

Serialize

Index

File

Search

Investigation conducted in enclosed letterhead

memorandum was. by SA RICHARD D. WIEHL

DL T-I 1S VAN WILEY POLLARD.

The enclosed letterhead memorandum is classified

confidential inasmuch as information Turnished by DL T-1

could reasonably result in the identification of a confidential

Informant of a possible continuing value and compromise his

future effectiveness.

INTC, OSt and Secret Service have been

advised locally and have been furnished two copies of enclosed

letterhead memorandun

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

THEAD

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIRIED

DALLAS

: WORTH, TEXAS.

DATE R2/1S/8a BY 508679/KK

POLLARD.

Malntain contact with VAN.

5 - Bureau (BaC. 10) (RM) 6 76 6 49

- Kansas City (Eno. 2) (R): 65C

Houston

(Ene. D) (Ru)

San Antonio

0 €76657

Dallas

11057180704

Approy?)

Special Agent in Charge

105-1280-169

HH 53074 DocId:32335782 Page 3

---

