# docid-32309082

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10297-10209

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-391

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/22/1961

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ASSOC, LOAN, REPAYMENT, MEO BROTHERS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32309082 Page 1

490

---

## Page 2

4-41 (Rev. 6-2-61)

D

E CO

COPY

Callahan

Conrad .

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

Radio

xx Teletype

DEFERRED

8-22-61

2:10 AM

RDA

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM

SACE

CHICAGO

220503

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY. CG 6486-0* A l

ADVISED AUGUST 17 LAST THAT AN. UNKNOWN PERSON, PROBABLY ONE

• THE MEO BROTHERS, KNOWN IN CHICAGO AS RESTAURATEURS AND ASSOCIATES

OF KNOWN CHICAGO HOODLUMS, WAS IN CONFERENCE WITH GIANCANA THAT

DATE. MEO BEGGED GIANCANA FOR REPAYMENT OF $25,000 HEM,OWES TO

THE OAK PARK NATIONAL BANK. THIS MONEY REPRESENTS AN APPARENT

FRAUDULENT LOAN OBTAINED AT THAT BANK TO COVER FORATHE

PURCHASE

OF THE VILLA VENICE. MEO REMINDED GIANCANA THAT HE EGIANCANA,

WAS INSTRUMENTAL IN THE TAKING OVER OF THE VILLA VENICE BY THE

NEW OWNERS WHO WERE LAGGING BEHIND IN THEIR PAYMENTS TO THE OAK

PARK NATIONAL BANK. MEO IS AWARE THAT IRS IS CHECKING ETHE VILLA

8F RENICE AND MEO'S CONNECTION THEREIN AND IS AFRAID AMATSCERTAIN

ES FDISCLOSURES WILL RESULT•

NOTED THAT OTHER CHICAGO INFORMANTS HAVE

ADVISED IN THE PAST THAT THE VILLA VENICE, FORMERLY OWNED BY THE

SEE CHEO BROTHERS, HAD BEEN TAKEN OVER BY GIANCANA IN RECENT PASTO

= AMONG PERSONS IN THE VILLA VENICE IS RICHARD BERNAS, KNOWN

I GIANCANA ASSOCIATE.

GIANCANA PROMISED MEO THAT HE WOULD SEE TO

K.

BYSP5256

SIFIED

COCG 6486-C* ADVISED ON AUGUST 18 LAST THAT MRS. ANTHONY ACCARDO

SAND DAUGHTER, MARIE, MR. AND MRS. FRANK FERRARO, HY GODFREY, AND

SMRS. MARIE CAPEXIO, WIDOW OF THE LATE: TON=Y CAPEXIO, ATTENDED

ZA DINNER PARTY AT THE ARMORY LOUNGE ON THAT DATE. NOT DEFINITELY

I KNOW IF GIANCANA IN ATTENDANCE, HOWEVER, POIL

ADVISED

SAME, DATE SHE OBSERVED GLANCANA AT THE ARMORY LOUNGE.

DANGEROUSEG

ARMED AND

REC- 68

42-3U

- 391

:=..

3:20 AM TELETYPE..

3:23 AM CODING UNIT,

RN

OTHER 4

SO SEP Y

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45792 DocId: 32309082

Page 2

---

