# docid-32303049

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10283-10061

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2914-65

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, PG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/28/1959

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

GM, ASSOC, THEFT, GAMBLING, CONSPR, TRANSPORT,

WEAPONS, CUBA, RACK AND SUBV, MEETING PLACE, REQ,

SURVEY, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32303049

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SCANDARD FORM NO. BA

Office Memorandum - UNITED STATES GOTERMN

1

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2914)

DATE:

: Mr.

12/28/59м

FROM

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-236-Sub 2)

IUNE

SUBJECT:

Mr.

amen

Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Roon

¿ Mr. Holloman

i Miss Gandy

1-

30-55

Ritel

GABRIEL MANNARINO, Aka.

(00 - Pittsburgh)

Re SAC Letter dated 6/11/59 stressing the necessity for

being alert to situations in which extraordinary techniques

could be used to advantage.

Pittsburgh national top hoodlums GABRIEL and SAM MANNARINO

head one of the most aggressive and well organized criminal

combinations operating in the eastern part of the United States

today. GABRIEL MANNARINO attended the conference of hoodlums

at Apalachin, N. Y., on 11/14/57. His present status in the

matter entitled

"UNITED STATES VS. BONANNO, ET AL"

(BUFILE

92-4225) is that of an un-indicted co-conspirator.

The MANNARINO mob is currently under investigation in

connection with two major theft matters with international

ramifications.

One case involves an alleged plot

finance FIDEL CASTRO's 26th July Movement through the

proceeds of twelve million dollars worth of stolen Canadian

jewelry and cash, apparently in exchange for

exclusive slot machine and gambling casino rights following

the defeat of the BATISTA Government.

The other matter

concerns a conspiracy to transport weapons stolen from a

National Guard Armory in Ohio to assist in the rebel movement

during the uprising in Cuba.

Recently unverified reports, have been received from a MANNARINO

confederate confined to the Federal Penitentiary, Lewisburg,

Pa., linking SAM MANNARINO with a conspiracy to smuggle opium

and heroin into the United States during 1956 through sources

of supply in Guatemala and

Mexico.

Since the inception of the Top Hoodlum Program the Pittsburgh

Office has waged a vigorous campaign against the MANNARINO

organization and has long recognized the urgent need for

coverage at a regular meeting place.

Early in the Top Hoodlum

Program, informants

and sources close to the situation i

- Bureau (RM)

REG 74

2944-

- Pittsburgh

05

RGD/vmm

(3)

0117

10 JAN 6 1960

Sched

FIEL

DEC 3U 1959

36

DocId: 32303049 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PG 66-2463513 2

New Kensington, were urged to remain alert for evidence

of any new homes or buildings under construction for either

of the MANNARINO brothers.

PG 545-C on 12/4/59 reported that the Fiorina and Murin

Construction Company, known front for the MANNARINO mob,

was then in the process of completing a rustic, four room,

cottage for SAM MANNARINO, located on a secluded and densely

wooded ten acre hillside tract approximately two hundred yards

off the Shearsburg Road in Allegheny. Township, Pa.

As a

matter of information, Allegheny Iownship is a small village

located in a

remote area near New Kensington.

The informant recalled that during 1956 when he was helping

SẠM MANNARINO acquire over three hundred acres of land'in the

same area, MANNARINO remarked that he might use one of the

tracts as

a possible site for a lodge. Moreover, the informant

recalled MANNARINO specifically mentioned that the lodge,

if constructed, would be used as.

a meeting place and stop-

over point for out of state associates on cross-country

trips.

that the land in Allegheny Township would be ideally suited

for such an undertaking because of the secluded nature of

the area.

On 12/15/59, PG 545-C was requested to contact SAM and

GABRIEL MANNARINO in their office at the Ken Iron and Steel

Company for the purpose of obtaining additional information

regarding the cottage in Allegheny Township.

During

conversation with the MANNARINO brothers on the afternoon

of 12/15/59, the informant learned that SAM MANNARINO had

turned over the ten acre tract on which the cottage is

located to his brother GABRIEL and that the cottage would be

GABRIEL MANNARINO's new summer home.

The informant was

present when the MANNARINO brothers discussed plans to move

certain pieces of furniture from their respective homes into

the new cottage once it. is completed.

Informant stated that judging from the actions and expressions

of the MANNARINOs in discussing the new construction in

Allegheny Township, it was obvious to him that the cottage

would actually be the private meeting place mentioned by

SAM MANNARINO in 1956, and not GABRIEL MANNARINO's summer

home.

-2-

DocId: 32303049 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

December 31, 1959

AIRTEL

TO:

SAC, Pittaburgh (92-236-2)

FROM: DIrOCtOFREC74

TEX. (03-2924) - 665

GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka.

ANTI-RACKSTEERING

JUNE

Reurmeno 12/28/59, requesting authority to conduct

a survey to determine the feasibility of Installing a misur

In & new cottage being constructed in Allegheny Township,

Pennsylvania, for Top Hoodlum Gabriel Hannartoo.

Authority for this survey 1s granted and 1t should

be promptly instituted. Care should bo exercised to insure

security and to protect Bureau interoats in view of the fact

that the Mannarino nob 1s currently under investigation 1n

two FBI major theft matters involving an alloged plot to linance

Fidel Castro's 26th July Movement through proceeds of stolen

Canadian bonds, jewelry and cash, and in a conspiracy to

transport weapons stolen in Ohio

to assist in the rebel uprindag

in Cuba.

This survey should be very carefully planned and

every logical and feasible avenue should be thoroughly and

completely explored in an effort to establish this important

coverage.

Advise the Bureau promptly of the resulte of your

efforts in this matter.

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

JGL: swb

(4)

Tolson

Belmont

De Loach

iNcGuire

Mohr

Parsons

Rosen

Tair.m

otter

Sullivan

30002

MAIL ROON

LEAVE UNIT

Solute

DocId: 32303049. Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NOTE :

Pittsburgh top hoodlums Gabriel and Sam Mannarino head

one of the most aggressive and well-organized criminal combinations

operating in the eastern part of the U.s.

Gabriel Mannarino

attended the conference of hoodlums at Apalachin, N.Y., 11/14/57

and was an unindicted coconspirator in the Government's prosecution

arising therefrom.

Pittsburgh advises that a rustic 4-room cottage is

currently being constructed for Sam Mannarino in a remote area

near New Kensington, Pa. PG 545-C has obtained information-

indicating the cottage will be turned over to Gabriel Mannarino

and will probably be used

as a meeting place for Mannarino

associates and acquaintances.

Pittsburgh Office believes such

meetings might relate to highly placed racket activities throughout

the U.S. and advises that this situation affords an excellent

opportunity for the utilization of extraordinary techniques.

-2-

DocId: 32303049

Page 5

---

