# docid-32301809

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/19/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10279-10144

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 159-757-100

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BLASSINGAME, ROYAL L.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

01/11/1963

' PAGES:

33

SUBJECTS :

LDR, ORGANIZER, LOCAL 901, RECORDS, SUBPOENAED,

FJG, INTV, LIST, FORMER EMPLOYEES, TERMINATED,

HOTEL STRIKE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NH 45934

DocId: 32301809

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

SAK-JAN

TITLE OF CASE

Office of Origin

SAN JUAN

UNSUBS; LOCal 901,

Teamsters Union,

San Juan, Puerto Rico

Date

1/11/63

Investigative Period

1/9-11/63

Report nado Dy

ROYAL L. BLASSINGAME

CHARACTER OF CASE

LMRDA- IM

Typed By

mar

REFERENCES:

SJrep of SA ROYAL I. BLASSINGAME, dated 1/3/63.

Burad to SJ, dated 1/4/63.

SJrad to Bureau, dated 1/5/63.

SJrad to Bureau, dated 1/10/63.

- P.

Approved

Copies nadi

LEADS

SAN JUAN OFFICE

+.

The following former employees of the La Concha Hotel,

To no are in me mal

to whom checks were made payable for the la Concha strike,

2/3-13/62, and who have not been located as yet, should be

located and interviewed, to determine if they participated

the strike, if they received any checks from Local 90l for the

Spoolal Agent

in Charge

Do not urite In' spaces below

159-252=

100

REC- 54

CE JAN 1A 1963

109

2 -

2

Bureau (159-757)

USA,

San

2 -

San

Juan

Juan

(158+27CE

W: 19

/-AAG Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Walter 1:

Sheridan

Room 2509

1-17-63

E7K/Ku

FBI - This TOporE 16 loaned to you by the fBI, and neither 1l nor its contents

Rey to vibica 1oenoi

763

# U.S. COVERIMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1056 O- 385319

d outside

N₩ 45934

DocId: 32301809

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SJ 159-17

LEADS (Cont'a)

strike, if so, how many checks and how much money, and if they

participated in the strike, who else do they know who participated

in the strike, other than employees of the La Concha Hotel:

At Hato Rey, Puerto Rico

DIMAS MORENO GONZALEZ, formerly resided at

53 Quayama Street, posalbly now I1ving In the Neme810 Canales

2.

CARMEN ORTIZ, 2307 Calle B, Barrio Buena Vista,

Cantera Section.

At Santurce, Puerto RicO

V1lLa Palmeras JAIME MARTINE RAMIREZ, 322 Ru1z Bo2v28 Street,

Callejon

2. JOSE E. IRIZARRY SANCHEZ, 1552 Calle del Parque,.

ADMINISTRATIVE

PCI SARAH TORRES PERALTA was contacted by SA ROYAL L.

BLASSINGAME, on 1/10/63, and the only additional information

furnished was that she had determined that the Union is making some

kind of payment to JAIME AMADOR's wife, possibly a pension,

while he is incarcerated in prison.

OTHER 4

that she dated JAIME AMADOR from approximately April, 1962

until his capture by the police, 8/31/62, and still writes to-

him in prison, and he writes her.

She is also managing his

bar, the Hidden Charm, which she

has now subleased to two other

persons, although she continues to assist in its management.

She denied that AMADOR had ever said anything to her about the

Union's records which were subpoenaed before the FaJ, SJ, 2/19/62,

and advised she knew nothing about the operation of the Union,

and AMADOR never discussed the Union with her.

She denied that

she knew anything at all about Teamsters Union Local 901.

• B* .

COVER PAGE

NH 45934

DocId: 32301809

Page 3

---

