# docid-32286783

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

"Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10196-10059

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-1011

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/28/1963

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, TRA, ACT, ASSOC, MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC INVEST NOTE

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32286783 Page 1

55

---

## Page 2

04-11 (Rey. 10-16-62) ;

DECODED COPY

Radio

Tolson

Belmont

Moht -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes.

Gandy

• Teletype

URGENT

5-28-63

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC CHICAGO

FROM SAC NEW YORK

281505

SAMUEL M.

¡ANCANA, AKA, AR, 00

Anti-racketestin&H I CAGO;

• RE NEW YORK RADIOGRAM, MAY 27, 1963. lY

ON MAY 27, 1963, PCI

WAS INTER-

fire

VIEWED AND IT WAS. STRESSED TO HIM THE FBI HAD NO INVESTIGATION

CONCERNING THE MC GUIRE §USTERS BUT WERE INTERESTED IN THE

ACTIVITIES OF GIANGANA..

STATED HE WOULD BE GLAD TO COOPERATE WITH THE

FBI

AND KEEP THIS RELATIONSHIP CONFIDENTIAL. (UL

ADVISED OF MC GUIRES SCHEDULE AND IT IS THE SAME

- AS PREVIOUSLY FURNISHED BY JOHN H. TEETER EXCEPT THE ADDITION

• OF JULY 19 TO 25, THEY WILL APPEAR AT THE CAL-NEVA LODGE,

CRYSTAL BAY, NEVADA AND FURTHER, THE MONTICELLO IS IN FRAMINGHAM,

MASSACHUSETTS AND NOT FRAMINGTON, MASSACHUSETTS AS PREVIOUSLY

STATED. (I

ADVISED GIANCANA HAD NOT BEEN IN NYC SINCE LAST

MONDAY, MAY 20, 1963. GIANCANA CAME TO NYC FROM PETTSBURGH

WITH THE TROUPE MAY 19, 1963 AND STAYED WITH PHYLLIS-MAYE19,

1963 AND LEFT ON MAY 20, 1963. PHYLLIS MC GUIRE JUST HAD HER

PHONE NUMBER CHANGED TO PL 2-4481. W)

FURNISHED TELEPHONE NUMBER FO 69709, CHICAGO,

ILLINOIS,

AS

THE NUMBER FOR GIANCANA IN CHICAGO -

HE WASE FUR

NISHED THIS NUMBER BY PHYLLIS AND REQUESTED TO CALL IT ON A

NUMBER OF OCCASIONS AND ASK FOR

• MR. FLOOD. IT IS ANSWERED BY

A WOMAN WITH AN ITALIAN ACCENT.

ADVISED HE AND THE

MC

• GUIRES ARE GOING TO FRAMINGHAM,

MASSACHUSETTS ON JUNE

12, 1963 BUT HAVE NOT DECIDED ON METHODO

TRAVEL AS

• YET.

;WILL

CONCERNING GIANCANA. (V

ADVISE NYO IF HE HEARS ANYTHING FURTHER

REG. 91:

RECEIVED:

1:42 PM

NIMGR 12001

• 20H8ARUNDA 1963

51

JUN

Potential Criminal Intormant

LAir

Haast

SERT Bion

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45792 DocId: 32286783

Page 2

OTHER 4

---

