# docid-32171563

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10173-10382

RECORD SERIES : NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Restricted]

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/03/1965

3

CONSPR THEORY, FASCIST PLOT, FBI, LHO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/10/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

10 OF 13 PAGES NAR

v9.1

DocId: 32171563

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Federal Bureau of Investigation

"President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992"

CROSS REFERENCES

heettaway aswald

NY

(105-66954718)

Cros-referenc

Subject:

Office:

Fllo #:

Section #:

Serials:

Page Counts:

Scoped Pages:

Relevant Pages:

NAR Pages:

Third agency.

Processed:

Unprocessed:

Multi-Filed Dupes:

Direct Dupes:

Unprocessed Pages:

• Fevlewed Pages:

Released Pages:

Withheld Pages:

Released Pages

W/Postponements:

13

3

10

3

3

3

TA enterid

4110194

DocId: 32171563 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

TATEP 11-14-2017

SECRED

DIRECTOR,

FBI

SAC, CHICAGO

3/2/35

5)

(S)

2/16/94

SAR

Classifed by O5 emB/GeL

Declassily on: DADR (TEK)

00: CHICAGO

Re Chicago leitez dnted 2/5/05.

New Yorks and one

encloseù are la contes dor mie sureau, one £o

for Wro

letterhead motorinauL (Liti)

dated and

captioned

#S

CG T-3 1s

CG I-1

•1s

Sourco

of

In1o1

mation,

CG

T-2

is!

SCHARD

165)

(S)

(5)

2

Y 5

- Duroau (Ingle, b)

-

Now

Yorkd

-

WrO

- Chi

& CARCHE

SEPIALICE.

.On!:

PT Sunda 1

-

332: UJT

RO NOT DESTROY - PENDING LITIGATS

SEARCHEA

SERIALIYED

INDEXED

MILED

DocId: 32171563

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Plesse Refer t0

File No.

Chicago, Illinois

MARCH 3, 1165

SECRET

(S)

PAR

ATL INFORMATION CONTAINED

KESEEN IS UUCLAGSUEIBD

EXCUSE REGAR C0001

03322

Declassin on nADE (JFK)

SECRET

Ü

1)it

SERIALILLO

ORi

SEARCHERM

SERTATERES

INDEXED

MILED

765)

DocId: 32171563 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONKMENT INFORHATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions) •

[] Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure.. All references relate to

Section 6

of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992. "

[]

Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

[]

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

[]

Subsection 1C (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[]

Subsection 2

(living person

who provided

confidential information)

]

Subsection 3

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

[]

Subsection 4

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

[] Subsection 5 (security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

I Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

[] For your information:

The following number is to be used for reference...

regarding this page (these pages) :

pg 2 ap 3

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XxxXXXXXXX

xxxxxxxxxX

xXXxxxxXXX

DocId: 32171563 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

WE DATE: 11-14-2017

3.

(S)

CG

(5)

NAR

At this potat,

waS

brought up the FBI,

1252158

organication" and

the

enemy of

dicated that

had

assassinated

Preside

KENNEDY

WEEn LOT HARVEX, OSWALD

ts had bees

FBI

and that the assassina

C71 WaS

p375

working for the

of a "fascist"

plot in wilch the FBI was in

alvied.

contiraued that

they rogarded the FBi as an org

nizate

because most of its Agents

te feared

ery far to the right and

many of then are menbers of the John Birch Society.

E]

NAR

DocId: 32171563

Page

6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEHENT INFORMATION SHRET (JFK MATERIALS)

Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

one or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions).

[]

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available

for disclosure.

All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[] Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

[]

[]

[]

Subsection 1C (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

Subsection 2

(living person who provided

confidential information)

[]

[]

Subsection 3

Subsection 4

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

[)

Subsection E

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

I Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

[]

For your information:

It The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

fg5-

12

XXXXXXXXXX

xxxxxxxxXX

XXXXXXXXXX

xxxxxxxxxxX

xxxxxxxXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

DocId: 32171563 Page 7

---

