# docid-32335896

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90129-10287

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-1280-239

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 144 USO

Case#: NT

53130

ate: 05-30-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DN

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 04/08/1965

' PAGES:

33

SUBJECTS :

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

IH53130 DocId:32335896 Page 1

28

---

## Page 2

FD-269 iRioT. 5-1-58)

RIPORITINO OFFICI

DENVER

TITLE OF CASE

"MINUTEMEN"

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ORMOROR ORIOIN

KANSAS CITY

DATE

4/8/65

INVESTICATIVETERIOO

3/11 - 4/6/65

REPORT MADE DY

CHORCE OF CATARNED

INPORMATION CONCERNING (IS)

TYPED TY

REFERENCE: 9//1/t 01 SA JOSEPH C. LBARND at Denver dated

-P-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

LEADS:

DENVER

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 62/19/03 BY SP8 BIC

2// U026

active in Minutemen (MA) at Salida.

At Monte Vista, Colorado: Will report results of

investigation of Individuals who are active or suspected of

being active in Mi at Monte Vista.

At Denver and Boulder, Colorado: Will report resulte

of investigation of Individuals who are active or suspected of

being

APPROVED

COPIES MADE,

7Bureau (62-107261)

1-secret service, De

1-27c, bicago

I-OSI, Denver

1-ONI, Chicago

1-LO8

Angeles (Info,

2-Phoen1x (105-1226

-Kansas City 62-7797

THAL AGA

DO NOT WAITE IN SPACES BELONY

239

SEARCHED MA:

SERIALIZED.A/

JUl

- 1.2 1961

DALLAS

APP. 1 & 1965

FBI - DENVER

Agoncy

"Roques: Resd.

Date Fod. :..i

How Fwd.

By .

Notuttens

de Nice

Dance beats lead

HH

53130

DocId:32335896 Page 2

---

## Page 3

" I:

DN 62-1494

INFORMANTS:

SOURCE

DN T-1

TORREST THOMPSON, Postmaster,

Richmond, Missouri (who requested

his identity be protected)

DN T-2.

Office, Denver,

BOY ZEHNA, Post OffIce Inspector"

requested his identity be protected)

DN T-3

PSI HENRY F. RECEN

LOCATION

134-472A

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The sources at the Denver and Rio Grande Railroad

mentioned in report are RAY BURRIS and WILLIAM TREAT, Special

Agents Department.

Investigation at Phoenix,

Arizona, was conducted by

SA JOHN F. SHEIK.

Investigation at salida,

Colorado, was con-

ducted by

SA WALLACE G. HAGUE, and at Monte Vista, Colorado, b!

SA ROBERT E. DeNIER.

This report has been classified "Confidential" since

data reported from IN I'-3 could reasonably result in identifi-

cation of a confidential informant of continuing value and

compromise the effectiveness thereof, which could adversely

affect the national defense.

Information regarding PHILIP PETARS has been previously

furnished to the Bureau and Secret Service at Denver.

-B-

COVER PAGE

HH 53130 DocId:32335896 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Copy tos

Roport ofe

Deter

Flold Offico Fllo di

Titles

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1-Secret Service, Denver

1-G-2, Chicago

1-INTC, Denver

1-OSI, Denver

I-ONI, Chicago

JOSEPH C. LEARNED

April 8, 1965

62-1494

"MINUTEMEN"

Ofice Denver, Colorado

Bureau File di

62-107261

Character:

INFORMATION CONCERNING (INTERNAL SECURITY)

Synopeles

PHILIP PETARS, on interview, advised that he learned of "Minute-

men" (MM) organization in 1963 while attending church services

at the Soldiers of the Cross Church. He stated he has received

Iterature from Ml but would neither affirm nor deny that he

has contributed any funds to MM.

PETARS stated he does not

approve of the organization if MM advocates any violence at

any time. PETARS stated he was a very peaceful man and would

make no threats against any public officials; however, he was

very concerned about the United states becoming socialistic.

PETARS referred to President JOHNSON as a "rat."

PETARS

states he does not know any individual who is a member of

MM and does not consider himself a member of MM at the present

time. THOMAS ARTHUR ROBB, presently a student for the ministry

and that he

sympathizes with the aims and purposes of MM. ROBB declined

to state whether he has contributed any money to the MM. ROBB

states he does not feel that he possesses any violent character-

istics and does not believe in taking anyone's life. ROBB

states he does not belong to any particular band or group of

ROBB states that he will be at Evergreen until 5/14/65.

HARRIS BENJAMIN MILLER, in a letter dated 1961 to the FBI,

urged the defeat of communism.

July 23, 1961, Issue of "The

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE :X//4/23 BY SP5KTQ/216

011,006

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI.

It to tho property of the FBl and in loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distribuled outside your agency.

HH 53130 DocId: 32335896 Page 4

---

## Page 5

ĐN 62-1494

Denver Post" contained an item directed to "Outraged, Betrayed

Americans," soliciting members for National Association for

Constitutional Government, Denver, Colorado. Source reports

HARRIS MILLER is connected

with National Association for

Constitutional Government. Background

information regarding

MILLER reflects that he is from Prichard, Alabama, and was

opposed to integration.

MILLER directed

a letter

to newspaper

in Mobile,

Alabama, opposing integration.

MILLER was arrested

in Mobile in August, 1961, on a game violation and had made

application for the

Prichard Police Department.

MILLER

directed MM member DAVID EUGENE PARSONS to "pick up information"

about SA JOSEPH C. LEARNED, Denver FBI. MILLER advised PARSONS

WEENED, ne

not to contact him until "the heat was off." DAVID LUDVIGSEN

identified photograph of HARRIS MILLER as one of the indivi-

duals who interviewed him for MM membership.

JAMES E. BAKER,

Public Service Company employee, advised that PARSONS stated

that he was in touch with MM.

DAVID PARSONS told source in

March, 1965, that one GEORGE TEBBS stated that "they" had

group

in the

"Gas Department" of Public Service Company.

ESHE, Public Service Conapny employee, stated that PARSONS

• has been talking about his activities in MM for several months

and told ESHE that he had a .30 M-l carbine rifle.

PAR SONS

asked ESHE if ESHE would reload 400 rounds of ammunition for

him. PARSONS stated that ammunition was needed in connection

with his i activities.

PARSONS owns a .25 Beretta automatic.

Information received that MILTON GODFREY MYERS, Salida, Colorado,

Fire Chief, has been in contact with MM to store rifles and

ammunition.

Information regarding WILLIAM SYLVAN COUCH and

LONNIE COUCH, both Salida, set forth. C. B. TINSLEY, Monte

vista, Colorado, acknowledged membership in

uM but declined.

to furnish any information concerning the organization.

-P-

DETAILS:

NW 53130 DocId:32335896 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DN 62-1494

JCL: cd

- 6 .

Name

HARRIS B. MILLER

Sex

Male

Race

-..-:

White

Date of birth

Height

Sugust 20, 1930

Weight

189 pounds

Hair

Light brown,

curly

Build

Heavy

Eyes

Blue

• Complexion

Light

Marital Status Married, wife JULIE

Daughter DONNA, age 8%;

'Son ALTON, age

Mrs: EARL STRINGFELLOW was contacted at the Kress

Department Store in Prichard, Alabama, on October 16, 1961, and

she stated the following:

She said HARRIS B. MILLER was back in Mobile with his

family and was residing at 423 Geneva Street, Alabama Village,

Prichard, Alabama.

Denver T-3 advised on March 13, 1965, that DAVID EUGENE

PARSONS, an employee of the Public Service Company (PSC), Denver,

& self-admitted member of "Minutemen" (MM) advised the source

the following on March 13, 1965:

PARSONS stated that on that evening he had driven to

the residence of HARRIS MILLER and that MILLER had told him "CIA"

Agents had been to visit MILLER that evening. MILLER related

that one agent spoke to him directly and this agent was "Joe

Learned, an FBI Agent, who was in reality a CIA Agent." MILLER

told PARSONS he had seen a second agent in front of his house:

MILLER told PARSONS that there was a "stool pigeon" in the group

(MM).

13

HH 53130 DocId: 32335896

Page 6

---

## Page 7

-

DN 62-1494

JCL: cd

• 7 .

MILLER told PARSONS that Mr. LEARNED was a CIA Agent

who lived at "681" Oneida Street, Denver, and then gave PARSONS

a description of Mr. LEARNED. MILLER told PARSONS to drive bj

Mr. LEARNED's home and observe and pick up information about him.

PARSONS indicated to this source that he liked and enjoyed this

assignment and that he had planned to drive by LEARNED's residence.

(Special Agent JOSEPH C. LEARNED, Denver FBI Office,

interviewed HARRIS BENJAMIN MILLER on April 23, 1964, in connec-

tion with investigation of the MM organization, at which time

MILLER would

neither deny nor affirm his activities in connection

with the MM organization. It is to be noted that SA LEARNED's

residence is listed in the Denver telephone directory as 636

Oneida Street, Denver, Colorado. SA LEARNED has not contacted

MILLER since April 23, 1964.)

PARSONS related to the source that MILLER told him

the CIA director in

ne latenver, he

Denver, who was killed in an automobile

collision on March 12, 1965, was probably killed by MM agents

to prove to the Federal Government and citizens who were communist

followers that they (MM) were a powerful and secret group with

the means

to strike out at anyone, anywhere, and at any time.

(The local press in Denver on March 12 and 13, 1965,

reported the death of General H. LYNN OSTLER in an automobile

accident which happened near Eagle, Colorado, on the morning of

March 12, 1965. The press identified General OSTLER as the

Regional Director of CIA. Through our sources connected with

CIA, it was known on March 12, 1965, that General OSTLER's death

was caused by a head-on collision of OSTLER's

automobile with a

truck which happened at approximately 7:00 A.M. on a main mountain

highway located near Eagle, Colorado.)

- 14

NW 53130

DocId: 32335896

Page 7

---

## Page 8

DN 62-1494

JCL: cd

•8.

PARSONS related that MILLER told him there was a Denver

and Rio Grande Western Railroad (D&RG) train derailed in the are:

of the east portal of the Moffat Tunnel near Tolland, Colorado,

by MM members to show their ability to create havoc and sabotage

to transportation facilities.

(Our sources at D&RG have reported that they have

received no information that the cause of the derailment of a

freight train near the east portal of the Moffat Tunnel was

caused by any planned sabotage.)

PARSONS also told this source that HARRIS MILLER told

PARSONS not to contact MILLER again until "the heat was off"

and to "lay low until CIA pressure was off." PARSONS also advised

source that MILLER said PARSONS should check around quietly

and without suspicion to find out if any members or potential

members had been questioned by the FBI or CIA Agents.

On March 14, 1965, PARSONS told source that he had

arranged for DAVID LUDVIGSEN, an employee of the PSC, to meet

with HARRIS MILLER and two of MILLER's associates. LUDVIGSEN

later told PARSONS that he did not join MM

due to the fact the

group demanded "blind faith in their group" and that he, LUDVIGSEN,

might have to assassinate communists in the Government.

DAVID MARENTI LUDVIGSEN, 1180 Yosemite, Aurora, Colorado,

advised on March 15, 1965, that he worked for the PSC in the

Appliance Section.

He stated that he had known DAVID EUGENE

PARSONS approximately three or four years. He stated that both

on behalf of the candidacy of Senator

He stated

that PARSONS and he apparently had the same political beliefs

and considered themselves conservatives.

NW 53130

DocId: 32335896

Page 8

---

## Page 9

DN 62-1494

JCL:n11

(1)

RE GEORGE SIDNEY TEBBS

RE DAVID EUGENE PARSONS

Denver T-3 advised on March 15, 1965, that DAVID EUGENE

PARSONS stated on March 14, 1965, that he had just come from the

PARSONS.

said that TEBBS has a Browning automatic rifle for sale for $375.

PARSONS said that TEBBS was a gun collector. PARSONS said that

TEBBS sold him a carbine and that TEBBS had an AR 15 Armilite

Iifle. PARSONS noted that this was a semiautosatic rifle.

PARSONS displayed a piece of literature which source

said was anti-Jewish in content. PARSONS said that TEBBS gets

his copy of the publication "On Target" wrapped in an envelope

that is sealed and then folded and placed in another envelop

and mailed.

PARSONS said that TEBBS told him that "they" had

group in the "gas department."

Source explained that PARSONS was referring to the

Gas Department of the Public Service Company of Colorado.

19

---

---

Ht 53130

DocId: 32335896

Page 9

---

## Page 10

-..est d

DN 62-1494

JCL:nll

(L)

RE DAVID EUGENE PARSONS

RE GEORGE HOWARD SULLIVAN

Denver I-3 advised on March 11, 1965, that DAVID EUGENE

PARSONS has a motorcycle license number TF-96 and a black Cadillac

four-door sedan license IJ-8757.

PARSONS told source that GEORGE SULLIVAN had sold him a

25 Beretta automatic.

PARSONS had previously said that he wanted

a handgun which he could keep either in his truck or have with

him while he was driving his taxicab.

> 1

he

21

HH 53130

DocId: 32335896

Page 10

---

