# docid-32286546

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10322

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-11305-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

COLARELLI, THOMAS L.

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/11/1969

26

JAMES, DONALD LESTER, REL, ACT, INVEST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2

v9.1

NY 45865 DocId: 32286546 Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

12-19-671

TIT. FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIÓN S

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

DATE

12/11/69

REPORT. MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

8/1 - 12/2/69

DONALD LESTER

AMES, aka;

ET AL

DR. SALVATORE CARUSO, aka;

ET AL - VICTIMS

SA THOMAS I.

COLARELLI

CHARACTER OF CASE

POSSIBLE ITSP

REFERENCE:

New Orleans report of SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI, -

10/17/69.

-P-

TYPED BY

vhi

5

INFORMANTS:

CON VIC.

AUTO.

PCI

advised on 10/25/69, that he

does not know

• DONALD LESTER JAMES personally; however, he

is acquainted with JAMES' brother-in-law, TERRY JOE NORRIS.

He stated NORRIS is allegedly employed by Oatis Engineering

Company; however, this is a cover for his criminal activities.

NORRIS will engage in any type of criminal activity, from

narcotics to burglary.

Informant stated he recently met

NORRIS at the Playboy Club in Hattiesburg, Miss., and NORRIS

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

= NONE

ACQUIT-

CASE HAS BEEN:

FUG.

FINES

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

TALS

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR EYES DINO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

DYES DINO

OTHER 4

#

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Can no

Bureau (92-11305) (RM)

Departmental

Attorney

KEITH E. GISLESON,

NO

- Atlanta

(87-15799) (RM)

-

Jackson

(92-248) (RM)

2

- New Or leans (92m1929)

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

T2-

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

11305-21

RET 56

5 DEC 19 1969

Dissemination Récold orlArrached! Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

STAT SECT

How Fwd.

By

38 JAN 5. 1970

GPO: 1968 0 - 299-885

COVER PAGE

NW 45865 DocId: 32286546 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-1029

showed him a quantity of loose diamonds and attempted to sell

some to him.

Informant stated that NORRIS told him that he

has a safety deposit box in

a bank in Hattiesburg where he

keeps the diamonds until he can sell them.

Informant stated

NORRIS claims to have thirty-two bars of gold for sale, but

informant does not know if this is true.

LEADS:

Copies being furnished to Atlanta and Jackson as those

divisions have outstanding investigation in this matter.

NEW ORLEANS

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. Continue efforts to

locate and interview SIDNEY KERN: and JESSIE CHEHARDY.

2. Maintain contact with Departmental Attorney

KEITH E. GISLESON, New Orleans regarding possibility of

subpoenaing PROVENZANO and LEGAN before FGJ, New Orleans.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Investigative period of instant report overlaps

that of referenced report as investigation by auxiliary

offices not available prior to submission of referenced

report.

:

This matter has been

discussed with Departmental

Attorney GISLESC, on several occasions, the last time being

12/2/69.

He advised that he is in favor of subpoenaing

both PROVENZANO and LEGAN before FGJ, but because of his

relative tenure as a Departmental Attorney.

He contacted

his superiors in Washington, and they did not express any

enthusiasm for this type of

action, stating that they felt

that this was

"abuse of process", which the RAMSEY CLARK

Administration adopted as policy, i.e. in bringing potential

defendants before Grand Jury where a substantial case could

not be proven. He stated he was in the process of preparing

a memo to his superiors pointing out that it was highly un-

likely that any prosecution at all could take place and it

would be better to bring PROVENZANO and LEGAN before the

Grand Jury. In hopes of perjuring or immunizing in an attempt

to develop a prosecutive case against JAMES and other two

Unknown subjects could be identified with the cooperation

of either PROVENZANO or LEGAN.

• B*

COVER PAGE

:?.

HW

45865 DocId: 32286546

Page 3

---

