# docid-32339674

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-90150-10170

HQ

64-42454-11

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

FBI

MM

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/04/1961

• PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

ANTULIO RAMIREZ ORTIZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TT

v9.1

HH 54462

Docid: 32339674

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

53002: •

TON

!!!!

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

1961

Mr. Tolson

Farsong

ohr

mont

Here?

17720

•• 11/15

Maine

TELETYPE

tr.

Rosen

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEDS

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE Dele. Room...

•Sullivar

DATE 10/10/85

Ingram

URGENT 5-4-61 2-08 AM EST

WGS

TO DIRECTOR FBI AND SAC, NEW YORK

NEW YORK VIA WASKINGTON

phone

FROM SAC, MIAMI

SP

EL PIRATA COFRESI IS DASH CUBA. REBUTEL 5-3-610 AND MIAMI AIRTEL

TO DIRECTOR FIVE TWO SIXTY ONE CAPTIONED QUOTE ALPHA CROFIRISI ITSA IS-

CUBA QUOTE. ON THE MORNING OF FIVE THO SIXTY ONE A REPRESENTATIVE OF UN-

ITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL UPI AT MIAMI INFORMED TRAT THE NEW YORK JOURNAL

AMERICAN WAS PUBLISHING A STORY TO THE EFFICT THAT A SOURCE IN THE

QUOTE UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIA QUOTE AT MIAMI MAD DESCRIBED THE INDIVI-

DUAL RESPONSIBLE FOR THE HIGHJACKING OF THE NATIONAL AIR LINES NAL

PLANE AS AN AGENT OF FIDEL CASTRO. FURTHER THIS INDIVIDUAL HAD

NOTIFIED THE CASTRO REVOLUTIONARY FORCES REGARDING THE INVASION PLANS

OF THE RECENT INVASION OF CUBA FOUR SEVENTIIN SIXTY ONE RICH BECAME:

KNOWN TO ANTI-CASTRO PEOPLE IN MIAMI. THE STORY RELATED THAT THIS IND-

IVIDUAL HAS BEEN IN HIDING AND USED THIS MEANS IN ORDER TO GIT BACK TO

CUBA• ALBERTO FERNANDEZ CASAS, HECTOR FEBLES, AND LUIS VEGA MORENO, RE-

PRESENTATIVES OF QUOTE UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIA QUOTE, UR EACH ADVISED THEY

I HAD NO INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ABOVE ALLEGATION. EACH

OF THESE INDIVIDUALS FURTHEP ADVISED THEY DID NOT HAVE ANY INFORMATION.

64-42454-11

NEL6Y00 10.

HH 54462. DocId:32339674 Page 2

---

## Page 3

BEGIN PAGE TWO

NOR DID THEY KNOW THE IDENTITY OF THE HIGHJACKER AND HAD NOT BEEN

IN CONTACT WITH THE NEWSPAPERS OR ANY REPRESENTATIVE OF THE PRESS ASSO=

CIATION. UR IS AN ANTI-CASTRO ORGANIZATION IN CUBA WITH ONLY FOUR

REPRESENTATIVES IN THE UNITED STATES. ON FIVE TWO SIXTY ONE AM MM

FOUR NINE TWO DASH S WHO IS KNOWN PUBLICLY AS A FORMER OFFICIAL OF THE

BASTISTA GOVERNMENT ADVISED HE RECEIVED A TELEPHONE CALL FROM DAN BRIT-

TON NEW YORK JOURNAL AMERICAN NEWSPAPERMAN , NEW YORK CITY ABOUT ONE

THIRTY AM FIVE TWO SIXTY ONE. INFORMANT EXPLAINED THE JOURNALIST MADE

INQUIRY CONCERNING THE NAL PLANE HIGHJACKED ON FIVE ONE SIXTY ONE• HE

• 00

STATED BRITTON WAS WONDERING IF THE HIGHJACKER WAS A CASTRO AGENT WHO

MIGHT HAVE INFORMED CASTRO REGARDING THE PLANS OF THE ILL-FATED INVASION

OF CUBA: FOUR SEVENTEEN SIXTY ONE. BRITTON ACCORDING THE INFORMANT WAS

LOOKING FOR A NEWS STORY. MM FOUR NINE TWO DASH S ADVISED HE TOLD

BRITTON HE BELIEVED IT WAS POSSIBLE THE NAL PLANE WAS HIGHJACKED BECAUSE

THE MAN WANTED TO GO TO CUBA FOR THE MAY DAY CELEBRATION IN HAVANA AND

HAD BEEN UNSUCCESSFUL IN GETTING A COMMERCIAL FLIGHT. THE INFORMANT

SAID THERE WERE NO COMMERCIAL FLIGHTS TO CUBA

NW 54462 DooId: 32339674 Page 3

---

## Page 4

BEGIN PAGE THREE

FROM THE MIAMI AREA ON FIVE ONE SIXTY ONE AND THAT CUBANS NEEDED PERMISS

ION FROM INS OR THE US DEPARTMENT OF STATE IN ORDER TO TRAVEL TO CUBA.

THE INFORMANT AGREED WITH BRITTON THAT THIS OF COURSE COULD BE A POSS-

IBILITY BUT HAD NO INFORMATION THAT WAS ACTUALLY TRUE. MM FOUR NINE

TWO DASH S STATED HE DID NOT MENTION UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIA. HE ADVISED

WHE DOES NOT KNOW THE IDENTITY OF HIGHJACKER HOWEVER, WOULD ATTEMPT TO

ASCERTAIN HIS IDENTITY THROUGH SOURCES AVAILABLE TO HIM IN THE U. So

AND INSIDE CUBA, BASED UPON THE ABOVE, IT IS BELIEVED THAT THE QUOTE

JOURNAL AMERICAN QUOTE STORY IS MERE SPECULATION ON THE PART OF SOME

REPORTER PROBABLY BRITTON, TO CONFIRM THIS BELIEF IT IS RECOMMENDED

THE BUREAU AUTHORIZE NEW YORK TO ENDEAVOR THROUGH ANY CONTACTS IT MIGHT

HAVE WITH THE JOURNAL AMERICAN OR FOR MIAMI TO INTERVIEW BRITTON IF HE

CAN BE LOCATED IN THIS AREA TO DETERMINE THE SOURCE OF. THE STORY®

#FOR INFOR NEW YORK SUBJECT PURCHASED FOR CASM ONE WAY TICKET FROM

MIAMI: TO KEY WEST FLORIDA MAY ONE LAST UNDER NAME ELPIR COFRESI ATA -

SEVERAL HOURS BEFORE DEPARTURE OF NAL FLIGHT THREE THREE SEVEN®

• NH 54462 DooId:32339674 Page 4

---

