# docid-32304089

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10285-10101

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-55981-30

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BRUNE. LOUIS J. JR.

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/03/1963

PAGES: 24

SUBJECT:

LB, MAGLOIRE, PAUL VINCENT, HAITIAN EXILES, PLOT, OVERTHROW,

GOVERNMENT, DUVALIER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Unclassified

CLASSIFICATION:

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

07/02/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53025 DocId: 32304089

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FI

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW. YORK

PAUL VINCENT

• MAGLOIRE aka

SECKI

DATE

5/3/63

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

4/5 - 4/18/63

REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY

LOUIS J. BRUNE,

CHA. HAS NO OBJECTION TO

CHARACTER OF CASE

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

1119-94

IN THIS DOOLICNI SM •

Classifted by Sps MAC/ISR RA - HAITI

9-15-97

Daciassify on:

REFERENCE:

JFK)

Bureau airtel to NY, WFO and Miami, dated 3/22/63.

56t08 5LDKSK

7 Abs 14F009

DECLASSIMICD ET-

NCLASSICIEO

ADMINISTRATIVEON

10-16-97 (JEK).

EXCEFT

SHE SHOWIL

OTAEINSISE

Information furnished by LUISBALBUENA, 908 s.W

sen Ave...

set out openly.

On

BALBUENA,

on 3/27/63, requested his

identity in this Instance be concealed.

His identity has

therefore been protected in this report under NY, I-6.

shot

REQ. REC'D.7.:1...

AUG

2 1.966

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

1

-

-

OnE capiosnida

for rovion at Isingby

HSCA REquest 1/20/28

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

105-155981-

Bureau

(105-55901) (RM)

INS,.

NYC (A11071931) (RM)

Miami (Info (RM

San Juan (Info: (RM)

MAY & 1963

Washington

Field

(105-20692) (RY

NeW YOrk (195-31060)

30

RES- 102

Agency

Request Recd.

PEES NIAY

TWAE

By

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

CiA

State (2)

RAO

ACS,

22 1900

15-67

FACI

de

Notations

ON'I

SECKET

NH 53025

DocTd: 32304089

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECKET

NY 105-31660

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NY T-1

JOSEPH MEROLA

2018 N. Bay Road

Miami Beach, Florida

Confidential Source of

WILLIAM KENNEY, Departmental

Attorney (On Request)

NY T-2

Miami 639-S

File Number Where Located

Miami airtel to the Bureau,

3/18/63, re

"HAITIAN REVOLUTIONARY

ACTIVITIES; IS-HAITI"

Contacted by SA JOSEPH P.

MC CANN of the Miami Office

NY I-3

ELA J (RU)

NY T-4

Miami 768-0

NY I-5

ELIAS A. NOUSTAS

(By request

NY T-6

LUIS BALBUENA

908 S.W. 5th Ave.,

Miami, Fla.

(By request

NY I-7

MAX BOLTE, former Minister.

of the Interior in Haiti

(Conceal by Request)

Miami airtel to the Bureau,

11/23/62, re "EDWARD TIFF (PH'

aka; IS-HAITI; RA-HAITI"; Miami

airtel, 3/5/63, re "HAITIAN REVOLUT-

IONARY

ACTIVITIES; IS-HAITI;RA-HAITI"

CIA report TDCS DB-3/653,274 datec

2/14/63;

CIA report IDCS DB-3/653,649

dated 3/13/63.

Miami airtel to the Bureau dated

3/12/63, entitled:

"HAITIAN

REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES; IS-HAITI"

NY 105-3131-704s ERNtacted

by SA ROBERT A.

Miami airtel to the Bureau

dated 3/28/63, re "HAITIAN

REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES;

IS - HAITI"

Ny airtel to the Bureau dated

4/3/63,

re "HAITIAN REVOLUTIONARY

ACTIVITIES; IS-HAITI"

, contacted

by SA ROBERT A. SHERMAN

SEXIET

B

COVER PAGE

IN 53025 DocId:32304089 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECKET

NY 105-31660

2.

Will cause records of Security and Visa

sections, US Dept. of State, and CIA, to be checked for

additional information concerning subject.

In this regard,

refer to WrOlet to the Bureau dated 12/23/58, reflecting

results of review of Visa File pertaining to MAGLOIRE and

contact of CIA OffICe• (* U

NEW YORK

At New York, New York

1. Will follow subject's activities through contacts

of various sources.

5.34

Will review MAGLOIRE'S INS file and report any

recent information.

Will, at Lincoln Towers,

205 West End Ave.,

verify subject's residence and attempt to determine his recent

activities and movements.

537,

Will contact LILLIAN N. NITZSCHE at Chemical

Bank, NY Trust Co., for purpose of monitoring subject's bank

account and to obtain any additional information in her personal

knowledge regarding MAGLOIRE.

Classification

report, was so classified.

report on so on was ern

1 case ted eet et forth in the (W)

The information attributed to LOUIS DEJOIE, who was

aster tendered his into mation as contential.

"Confidential'

, inasmuch

The information furnished by Miami 639-s 1s

classified "Confidential" to aid in protecting the identity

Fu add ea

of this source of continuing value in the Haitian field.

D*

COVER PAGE

SENET

HH 53025

DocId: 32304089

Page 4

---

## Page 5

NY 105-31660

SECKET

Government is inclined to support him and his group in their

efforts to unseat President DUVALIER. RIGAUD plans to force

DUVALIER out of power by a show of strength, claims to have

most of the Haitian exile leaders behind him, and stated that

they are all unified at present in a common desire to get rid

Of DUVALIER, who is completely ruining Haiti.

He said if he

and his group are successful at deposing DUVALIER, a coalition

government will assume power. He did not specify of whom this

coalition would be comprised.

RIGAUD said he is supported

by PAUL MAGLOIRE, former President of Haiti, but this fact is

considered strictly confidential by both him and MAGLOIRE.

On March 11, 1963, GINETTEN

DUCHATELLIER, Apartment 50g

250 west 103rd Street, New York City advised SA A. G. CZINTOS

and SA PATRICK W. HIGGINS that ROGER RIGAUD is her leader and

her preference for President of Haiti, once DUVALIER IS

overthrown.

She stated that ROGER RIGAUD could do nothing

effective,

however,

to overthrow DUVALIER, as he was without

funds.

She advised that PAUL MAGLOIRE is despised by all

Haitians, and that although Haitians are willing to accept

MAGLOI RE's money for use in the overthrow of DUVALIER,

MAGLOIRE, himself, could never again hope to hold any official

position

in Haiti.

On March 14,

1963, NY I-5, a Haitian businesaman,

advised that ADELPHINXIEISON is in hiding in Haiti.

He is

considered to be the strongest personality remaining in

Haiti and is regarded as the person most capable of leading

a successful opposition to DUVALIER. TELSON was formerly a

Minister of the Interior under PAUL MAGLOIRE, NY T-5 said

that he would receive considerable support from both color

groups in Haiti. He is reported to have access to a large

cache of arms in that country.

NY T-5 stated that PAUL

MAGLOIRE would undoubtedly support TELSON financially.

On March 18, 1963, Mr. LUIS BALBUENA, 908 Southwest

5th Avenue, Miami,

Florida,

advised he is a Cuban exile who

came to the United States on August 4, 1962.

He was born

December 15, 1929, at the Guantanamo

Naval Base in Cuba

and worked for the United States Navy at that base for 20 years.

Haiti

- 13 -

NW 53025 DooId: 32304089

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SEGRET

NY 105-31660

B, 2-5-24 ORiente, Cube

BALBUENA said he has learned of a plan to overthrow the

government of President DUVALIER of Haiti from his brother,

VICTOR, BAIBUENA, 1353 Northwest Ist Street, Miamt, Who was,

involved in

Puerto Rico, where a group of Haitian military

that plan. The plan originated in ten erad

Cuban exiles met.

Attending this meeting were a Haitian

General and a Haitian Colonel, names unknown.

One of the

most important. Cuban figures present was ANTONIO RODRIGUEZ

ECHAZABAL, former Cuban Ambassador to Haiti. BALBUENA

regards RODRIGUEZ as a dependable, aggressive leader, who is

definitely anti-CASTRO.

The plan of the combined Haitian-Cuban group

1s to work solely from Santo Domingo against Haiti.

The group is extremely anxious not to violate United States

law, and nothing will be done illegally in the United States

or Puerto Rico, BALBUENA said.

The group, at present, is

trying to get the support of President JUAN BOSCH Of

Santo

Domingo for their activities.

They plan to infiltrate armed Haitian and Cuban

exiles across the Dominican border,

but no direct attack

will be made.

The government of DUVALIER will be over-

thrown from within by Haitian Army personnel.

As a reward for their assistance, the cuban groug

will be permitted to use Haiti as a base of operations

against Cuba.

BALBUENA did not Know ROGER RIGAUD, and knew of no

connection with gambling elements on the part of anyone

connected with the plan.

He understood PAUL MAGLOIRE, former President

of Haiti, was the main principal behind the scenes, endeavoring

to push

this plan.

on March 18, 1963, VICTOR BALBUENA, 1353 Northwest

Ist Street, was interviewed.

He was advised of the provisions of the Registration

Act of 1938 as amended, and the Neutrality Statutes.

SEYPET

- 14 -

HW 53025 DocId: 32304089 Page 6

---

