# docid-32338076

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90140-10033

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-4351-128

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PAPICH

TO: LALLIER

TITLE:

DATE: 07/21/1961

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS:

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

MIGUEL ANTONIO SANCHEZ RAMOS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32338076

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 H0ce)

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

7)

UNITED STATES GOVERN

Memorandum,

TO

Mr. L'Allierre

Tolson -

Belmont -

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans -

Malone -

Rosen -

SECRE

azy 21, 1%62

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter

(5668548160

Tele. Room

FROM : S. J. Papich

4/19/951JFR

Ingram -

Gandy

12-22-1}

Classified by 2803 100l

SUBJECT:

MIGUEL ANTONIO SANCHEZ RAMOS

Declassity one Cryon

IS - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

214324

On July 20, 1961, the Liaison Agent

discussed the

captioned individual

with

Nelson Smith of Central Intelligence

Agency (CIA). Smith stated that his Agency continues to be very

much interested in utilizing the captioned individual's services.

CIA is very much impressed with his potential but an immediate

problem was encountered because Sanchez could not be securely

placed in cuba or in the Dominican Republic Sanchez himself

has clearly indicated it would be unwise for him to operate ir

either of those countries.

is being given to placing Sanchel by Mexicolor Venezuelas

least for a period

The Liaison Agent,

pointed out to Smith that his Agency

allegedly had made certain

financial commitments to Sanchez and S

CIA might find it advantageous to make certain Sanchez does not

become disillusioned.

Smith admitted that commitments were made

ned further agreed that personal contact ulth (Sancher fras absolutely

ACTION:

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR

DECLASSIF/ G.V: 26X_

To there tientence seen dieted to the attential

of the Nationalities Intelligence Section.

SJP: ban

(5)

can

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

128

1 - Mr. Donahoe

Mr. G. C. Moore

1

1

Liaison

Mr. Papich

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICaRO& AND/OR,

RELEASE ON DIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, KP 5-26.

EYCEPT BRACKERS IN

REG- 59

97 = 435/-

22 JUL 25 1961

TO HSCA RE REQUEST DATED 3:98.

(SEE BUFILE 62-117290)

98

R2 JUL 2 8 1961

SECRET

DocId: 32338076 Page 2

---

