# docid-32202326

## Page 1

Date: 09/30/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD

NUMBER : 157-10005-10136

RECORDS SERIES

SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY GOVT OPS-INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R2979

Released under the John

ussassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NU 53244 Date:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM : JOHNSTON, JAMES H.

TO : ELDER, WALTER - CIA

TITLE :

LETTER REQUESTING INFORMATION

DATE: 04/23/76

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

REQUEST TESTIMONY FROM SHACKLEY, TED-CHIEF OF EMMANE SHATTON

REQUEST TESTIMONY FROM SWENSON, HAL-FORMER CHIEF OF C1, SAS

REQUEST TESTIMONY FROM THE CHIEF OF CI, SAS NOV-DEC 1963

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

BOX 431-96

1x34

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53244

DocId: 32202326

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN

JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

PHILIP A. HART. MICH.

HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN.

WALTER F. MONDALE, RANi

BARRY GOLDWATER. ARIZ.

WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, KY. CHARLES MCC. MATHIAS, JR., MD.

norer morgan. Ne

RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.

GARY HART, COLO.

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR

431-96 yeow

Anile States 51698 * 234}%

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 21, MTH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

10136

April 23, 1976

Mr. Walter Elder

Review Staff

ON 2/1.4/72

BY_

Central Intelligence Agency

Langley, Virginia

Dear Mr. Elder:

In connection with the Select Committee's investigation

of the assassination of President Kennedy, we request the op-

portunity to take testimony from the three individuals iden-

tified below if they are still employed by the Agency, or their

current address and telephone number if they are no longer em-

ployed:

2.

ason,

1. Ted Shackley, Chief of JMWAVE Station;

former Chief of CI, SAS;

3. The Chief of CI, SAS in November-December 1963.

Sincerely,

James H. Johnston

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

AS SANITI&

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

12-220

CrODeT

SLUN

ww Salad / Dosta 32202326 Page 20/date 4

---

