# docid-32300187

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10226-10467

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-86406-2ND NR 12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 02/05/1964

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

GPH, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY AIR FORCE, INTERPEN,

ANTI-CASTRO ORGANIZATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John

. Kennedy

Assassination

Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

13

DocId: 32300187

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-108-03

MAY 1962'EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Director, FBI

DECLASSIFIED BY

5668:5100/145

ON

3-4-98

(JFK)

P5-hir-e

Armels INtOIN

DATE:

215/64D 2 1s nou

DECCASSIFIED

poR

FROM

SUBJECT

SAC, Miami (105-0-4831)

plaeec.cm

105-86406

CARLOS ENRIQUE BENEMANN;

IS - CUBA;

NM.

(Hemming)

117

1.211

ReBulet to Savannah 1/23/64, with enclosure of

U.S: Army letter dated 1/6/64.

10-212-47

DETAINE

-SLEIEU

Page 2 of re Army letter contained some informa-

tion about a man named PATRICK, reportedly a former member

of the French Foreign Legion, CIA, the Canadian Army, and

the U. S. Army, and described as being of light complexion,

thin, muscular, with blond hair. (SU)

The Miami Office feels this

individual could pos-

sibly be GERALD PATRICK

!, 6' 6"', an American

adventurer, mercenary, and soldier of fortune. He has re-

ceived considerable press publicity, and has been described

by the press as a combination of one of the Three Muskateers

and Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.

on nation

He is frequently seen in down-

town Miami wearing an Australian campaign cap and

a Van

Dyke beard.

Canad

vd

MM 639-S, who has furnished reliable Information

in the past, a close friend and associate of HEMMING, advised

the following:

Joe aers deniara

it crit

Bureau (RM)

186- 86406-

1

San Francisco (Info) (NM) 1od Is

2 2h4 be

1 - Savannah (Info) (RM)

EC:NOT RECORDED

1 - Miami

98

: FEB 13 1964

vet 6617.

RJD: GK:::

; (5)

and can

T0141182-

REC- 207

35 BASA

¡Ec attanta by o:?

66FEB131960

+ 2112164

30 c

18 FEB

6 1964

126195

Classified

ITAL

SEC.

WAI.

2

RIGINAL FILED IN 1O

(IC)

NW 54464

DocTd: 32300187

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM

105-0-4831

HEMMING was a control tower operator in the U.S.

Marine Corps, and was honorably discharged. In 1959, he

went to Cuba and

was in the Cuban Revolutionary Air Force

for a short period of time.

He came to Miami from Califor-

nia in about May, 1961, and formed the Anti-Communist

Legionnaires, later known as Intercontinental Penetration

Forces, an anti-CASTRO organization.

During 1961-62, HEMMING operated military training

camps in Florida

for Cubans; staged parachute demonstra-,

tions and hunger strikes.

His

group of adventurers. and

mercenaries have been arrested by the local police for

vagrancy, armed robbery, 'and other criminal acts.

HEMMING

was arrested by U. S. Customs on several occasions for con-

spiracy to illegally export arms.

HEMMING's grOup is now

inactive; he has no followers; and, he presently works in a

bar as a

bouncer.

HEMMING maintains contact with Cuban revolutionaries

and tries to make money by selling arms and automatic weapons.

HEMMING was never associated with CIA or the Canadian Army,

and has never been accepted by responsible Cuban exile poli-

tical and military leaders.

HEMMING has wide contact among

American adventurers and mercenaries, arms dealers and

smugglers, and it would be logical when such types come to

Miami, they make contact with HEMMING.

The above information is

for the benefit of the

Savannah and San Francisco Offices:

MM 639-S advised he has never heard of captioned

subject and can furnish no information concerning him.

COME

- 2-

NW 54464 DooId:32300187 Page 3

---

