# docid-32287401

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10197-10177

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-29-502

Document Information'

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/23/1962

3

CIP, WEEKLY SUMMARY, INDELICATO, JOSEPH, ANTHONY,

ASSOC, INFORMANTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

19.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32287401 Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

• FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI.

Transmit the following in

Date:

3/23/62

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

yst

FROM:

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad_

Mr. DeLoach.

Mr. Evans Sa

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

stoppe

SAC, MIAMI (92-515)

RE:

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

Weekly Summary

PCI, on 3/20/62, advised he received

information that JOSEPH ANTHONY INDELICATO (Miami File 92-404)

told JOE STRAUSS, a bookmaker who resides in the Beaux Arts

Apartments, North Bay Village, Fla., that MARVIN SHULMAN, one

of the builders of that apartment, was starting construction

on a new apartment building at Miami Beach. INDELICATO also

told STRAUSS that he was going to see SHULMAN about getting

his cigarette machines in this new apartment building. On

3/21/62, PCIL

observed INDELICATO and SHULMAN conversing

together at the Beaux Arts Apartments boat docks.

MM 675-C, on 3/21/62, advised that HAROLD SOLOMON,

who operates a bail bond business at Miami Beach, has been mak-

ing a large number of bonds regardless of the risk, and conse-

OTHER 4

that INDELICATO has some interest in this bail bond. operation.

3

Bureau (AM)

2 - Miami

RFF: anc

(5)

Сек. C.

6 0 APR

Approved:

200

62-9-29-502

26 MAR 28_1962

M Per .

Special Agonlanse

NW 45760 DocId: 32287401 Page 2

---

## Page 3

. FD-36.(Rev. 12-13-56)

• ;

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MM 92-515

PCI, on 3/5/62, advised that MANNING

SHERMAN, a card shark

who operates in the card room of the

Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach, with MAX EDER (Miami File

92-467) on occasions wears on his person an electrical device

operated by batteries which is used to signal to another in

a card game.

On 3/20/62,

PCI, advised that CHARLES

TOURINE (Miami File 92-106) returned to his Miami residence at

the Beaux Arts Apartments on 3/15/62 from London, England.

On 3/23/62, SANTOS TRAFFICANTE of Tampa, Fla., (Miami

File 92-88) was observed having dinner with JOHN PHILLIP CERONE

(Miami File 92-767) and ROCCO FISCHETTI (Miami File 92-140),

OTHER 4

the first time TRAFFICANTE has been placed in contact with

the Chicago group.

PCI, also advised that Mrs. SHIRLEY

CAMPO has left her husband, EUGENIO STEFANO CAMPO, (Miami File

92-586) and plans to secure a divorce. He advised she moved

to the Sea N Sun Motel, North Bay Village, Fla., until 3/14/62

when she left and her present whereabouts are unknown.

- 2 -

Approved:

-

Sent

M Per -

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45760 DocId: 32287401 Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-36, (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MM 92-515

MM 807-C, on 3/16/62, advised that he received in-

formation that HERSHIE LAFF (Miami File 165-10) recontacted

THESE LATE 62

LEONARD LOWENSTEIN, the Vice President of the Silver Key Golf

ot the rect kay

and Country Club, on 3/13 or 14/62, to determine whether

LOWENSTEIN wald accept his offer of securing capital from his

friends to be invested in the construction of this club. Ac-

cording to his information LOWENSTEIN turned down LAFF's offer.

This source also advised on the same date that FRANK

DIOGUARDI (Miami File 92-405) subleased his, ANGELO's Restaurant,

for one year to his chef, ROGER CURCI, who put up $5,000.00 as

security and is to pay DIOGUARDI $150.00 a week until the sum-

mer months, at which time a portion of the security will be

used as payments to DIOGUARDI.

MM 808-C* was developed to provide coverage as to

EDWARD J. McGRATH (Miami Elle 92-82).

- 3 -

Approved:

Sent

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45760 DocId: 32287401 Page 4

---

