# docid-32337534

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

Date:

4/21/201

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10300

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-99547-20

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

HQ

PA

TITLE :

DATE:

11/01/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

VHADANA KAMALAFRIJA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32337534

Page 1

---

## Page 2

[Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) .

_ DATE

11-14-2017

- Mullins

=O Brien

8B/1/63

NION CONTAINED

CLASSIFIED

SEORIN

Legot, PAr88 1205-1393)

REC-

Director, FBI (105-99547)

20

EX 112

VIADANA KAMARAFRIJA

IS - CUBA

10 31/97

CLASSINED!

DECLASSIFY C

ReParislet 10/1/63.

It has been determined via liaison channels that

CIA has no present interest in the subjeet and has no objeetion

(4)

to an interulew of the subjeet by a representative of the Bureau.

Bonn should furniah Bern with bueinground date concerning

the subjeet.

Baris obtain the subject's current address from os

PARal9 and Jurnish this intoration to Bern (Q) (l

Upon receipt of the above, Bern should arrange through

appropriate swies cuthorities to interylew the subject.

In the

event Bern feels Swiss authorities should not be contaeted in

this regard Bern should sumit its recommendation to the Bureau

as to the handling of this interuiem

2.

Bery

2 - Bonn

stole.

- Foreign Licison Unit (Route through for reyiew)

EXOs pal mee

(20)

S/0/6Ck

NOXE:

subject, presently residing

Geneva,

switzerland,

was formerly a nighly-placea offleial

in the cuban reonomie

Ministry, Subject escaped from Cubo

late in 190201

PAR -19 CU

has kept us advised of subjeet's whereabouts and this informant

JeELs une SuDJeCt WOuLa consENE to InterUleudy Bureau repreSert.

tive Liaison Agent So Jo Papich contaeted Mis. Jone Roman,. CIA:

10/22163 re subjeet.

46?

Mr 3!

is said els

MAILED 4

NOV 1=1963

COMM-FBI

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Homes 6 AND

L69

Gand T int

MAR CORD

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32337534

Page 2

RESTON TO

LIMATION

RP 5-18.98

---

