# docid-32302837

## Page 1

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10282-10349

HQ

100-339235-228, 229

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/04/1966

PAGES:

,10

SUBJECTS :

SHE, ASSOC, TRA, PASSPORT, PLP, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

"RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/12/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC LHM, TTY

v9.1

DocId: 32302837

181

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD =36.(Rev, 5-22-64)

FBI

. Date:

1/4/66

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-339235)

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SAC, NEW YORK (100-42479)

SUSAN HEILIGMAN

PRANK

IS-CH

"/2e/9e

Enclosed are the original and 8 copies of an IHM

dated and captioned as above, two of which are for Legat, London.

The enclosed IHM is classified "Confidential" because

of the sensitive nature of the source involved.

NY I-l in the enclosed IHM is NY 4047-s*.

The Bureau is requested to request the Legat, Löndon

o contact sources in London to be alert for the subject's

[arrival and to alscreetly determine her activities and itinerary Cas

The NYO is contacting sources

in attempt to ascertain

subject's date of departure and mote

85 Bureau (100-339235) (Encs-9) (R) 5810

ENCLOSUR

of travel.

5(2-Legat,

London)

I-New York

(100-42479)

LeGAT:

EX-113

100-339235-228

Copy to..

LONDON (a)

JAN 5 1966

by routing slip for

DAF : EG

(7) ÷-

• info.

date..

action

404444686847

byy......

F89

6 9 JAN 71 1965/

Specia

gent

Sent.

• M

Per.

DocId: 32302837 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

42449220

UITED STATES

DEPARTMENT OL-JUSTICE

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New yory 4, 19007/

January

Susan Heiligman Frank

NY T-1, who has furnished reliable information in the

past, advised that the subject, on January 3, 1966 was in contact

with the Guinea Mission to the

United Nations, the Ghana Mission

to the United Nations, and the United Arab Republic Consulate (5)

in New York City.

She said that she is leaving shortly for

London, England and wantea to apply for visas

to enter these

countries. At the UAR Consulate she stated that she is

travelling as a journalist and she may have to leave rather

quickly.

She was then advised that

she could apply for this

visa at the UAR Consulate in London. ]Cs)G)

Susan H. Frank is the bearer of United States

passport E572385 issued on July 2

1964 under the name Mildred

S. Frank. She was born November 8, 1913 in New York City.

CLASSIFIED BY 5868 Sco/Ga

Al: 25X (6)(6)

ALL TUFORHASION CONTAINER

1 12 66:0031

19d

Classitted

Decler

: PADR

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

"TENTI

SE

Felded fe

automatic downgrading

and ectassification

ENCLOSURE

100-339235-228

DocId: 32302837

Page 3

---

## Page 4

•Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TORE

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OI JUSTICE

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

January 4, 1966

HAMIN AL

Susan Heiligman Frank

it tet, who has furnished reliable information in the

past, advised that the subject, on January 3, 1906 was in contact

with the Guinea Mission to the

United Nations, the Chana Mission

to the United Nations, and the United Arab Republic Consulatel)

in New York City.

She said that she is leaving shortly for

London, England and wanted to apply for visas to enter these

At the JAR Consulate she stated that she s

travelling as a joumalist

and She may have to leave rather

quickly. She was then advised that she could apply for this

visa at the UAR Consulate in London. Ots)

Susan H. Frank is the bearer of United States

passport

E572385 issued

S. Frank.

She as ben doveler 8, 1913 in drew York city.

1964 under the name Mildred

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SWORECL

DECLASSIFY 0125X3 45/88

Crasstied

AGce

AZI, INTORMATION CONTAINED

SORDID IS UNGRAGS CRIED

DZ.0272 WER23 SMONA

020 ANGECT

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI..

It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency..

ITAT

tomatie doungreding.

and declassification

SECRET

DocId: 32302837

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET:

UNiTED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New Yoris

January 4, 1966

Susan Heiligman Frank

NY Tol, who has furnished reliable information in the

paste advised that the subject, on January 3, 1966 was in contact

with the Guinea Mission to the

United Nations, the thana Mission

to the United Nations, and the United Arab Republic Consulates)

in New York City.

She said that she is leaving shortly for

London, England and wanted to apply for visas to enter these

countries.

At the UAR ConsulateS)she stated that she is

travelling as a journalist and she may have to leave rather

quickly.

she was then advised that she could apply for this

visa at

the Luan consulate in London:64)(s)

Susan H. Frank is the bearer of United States

passport E572385 issued on July 2

1964 under the name Mildred

S, Frank.

she was born November 8, 1913 in New York City.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SL0/GCL

6/25/98

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

MANDIA IS UNCEASSLZLED

BACOPE WIGRE SHOWN

OTHERNISE

-u/2e/94

Classirens

Declasstry on' DADR

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

automatic deungreding.

and declassification

SECRET

DocId: 32302837 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRE

UrTED STATES DEPARTMENT OF-JUSTICE

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

lew York, New Yorls

Januazy 4, 1966

Susan Heilignan Frank

IN 1-l Who has fumished zeltable information in the

past,

advised that the subject,

on Januaxy 3, 1960KWas in contact

with the Guined Mission to the

United Nations, the chena lassion

to the United Nations, and the United Arab Republic Consulate 75)

in New York City:

She said that she is leaving shortly for

London, England end wented to apply for visas to enter these

countries,

At the UAk Consulate Sshe stated that she is

travelling as a journalist and the may have to leave rather

quickly.

She was then advised that

she could apply for this

visa at the UAR Consulate in London: (yS)

Susan H. Frank is the bearer of United States

passport E572385 issued on July 2

1964 under the name Mildred

So Frank.

She was bom November 8, 1913 in New York City.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 So/Ga

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X OX(4)

JFK) 6/55/98

ALI INTORMATION CONTAINED

HARRID IS UNOLASSUITED

EXCERE WISERS SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Classified

Dectabsty on 9A

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI.

Ic 19 the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency: it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency

melded mon

autonauto dongrating

ano declassification

SECRET

DocId: 32302837 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 T11 USC

DATE: 11-14-2017

2707 Hote).

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UrTED STATES DEPARTMENT OF -JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUR AUE MINESTIGATION

New 20r.

Eew York

January 4, 1966

SECRET

Susan Hellignan Franks

NY I-1, Who has furnished zelible information in the

past,

advised that the subject, on January 3, 1966%Mas in contact

with

the /Guines Miseion to the

United Nations, the unana Mission

to the nited Nations, and the United Arah Republie Consulatele)

in New Yorts City-

She said that she is leaving shortly for

London, England and wanted to apply for visas to enter these

countries

At the (VAR ConsulateS/she stated that she is

travelling as a journalist and the may have to leave rathor

vickst the LAR Consulate In London. 64) 5)

She was thon advised that she could apply for this

visa st

Susan HI, Frank is the bearer of United States

passport B572365 iscued on July 2, 1964 under the name MIlared

S, Franks

Sho was

bom flovenber 8, 1913 in New York City:

AIT: INTORMATION CONTAINED

HERE IN IS UNCLASS LALED

EXGB2Z VHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE ,

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/Ga

DECLASSEY CN: 25X_CXS)

5FK) 6/15/98

M/2/94

Classied By

Desassin at DADY

This document contoine neither zocommendetions

nox conclusions of the

It is the property

of the FBl and is loaned to your agencys it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency:

48122

acinded from

ecis

DocId: 32302837 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy ASsassination Recörds Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 210% Hote).

DATE:, 11-14-2017

•SECREL

UrTED STATES DEPARTMENT OL JUSTICE

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Tew York,

New Yous

Jamusay 4, 1966

fusen Bellignan Frants

1 Tel, sho has furnihed zollable informatton in the

paste

advised that the subject, on Jamary 3, 1966 as in contact

mach cue Launce wasanon to the

Insted lations, the chand Mission

to the Untted fettons, and the United Arab Republic Consulete_)

da Non Zort C1ty

: sodd that she ta

leaving shortly for

santon, Anglend

and wanted to apply for visas to entor these

couricries-

At the (JAR ConsulateS) he stated that she te

trovelling as a joumalist and the may have to leave zather

quickly.

fuse at the dan consulate in tendon (* (3)

was then advised that the could apply for this

Suean R. Frant is the brazer, 02 United States

pResport

3/egop assued on July 2

1SC4 under the nene milared

Se Franke

1913 in Naw Yors Caby.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SCO/ECL

DECLASSY ON: 25X (X(6)

625/98

10/21/90

ATE INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCZASSUETED

SEUDS L WHERE SHOWN

OTHERAISE

This docunent contains neither recommendations

nor conclustons of

the DDL,

tv is the property

of the TEl and ia loaned to your agencys

i Bic end

its contents are not to be diatributed outaldo

your agency.

SECREM

DocId: 32302837

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 U5€

DATE: 11-14-2017

2Tt7 Hotel.

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Ul, TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ten Torts

January 4, 1966

Sueen let lotan Franks

it tong the has tumiched mallable informanton in the

pests

case the subjects on January 3, 1966.3480 in contect

vich

tas Buince luscron to the

Vetted Nations, the Chand illegion

to the trited Nations, end the United Arab Republic Conmalete ](5)

in New York City.

She sold that cho te lening shortly, for

London, Englend emd wanted ta enply for vises to enter these

countries +

At the OR Consulata Site Steted that she is

travel 1ing as a

• Joumallot and the may have to leave rather

cutely:

Sho gee then odvleed that the could euply for thie

visa 8S

the LuAn Consulate in london Jas,

susan be trans to the ester os united Stereo

passport 1572915 leeued on duty 2, 1964 under the neme Viltred

B. Dranite

the wan born Neverber 3, 7913 in New Yor: City.

ALT INFORMATION CONTAYNED

HERBAN IS UECLASSITTED

EXCEE WHERE SAOWN

OTHERNISE

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SIO/GGL

DECLAGSIFY 253508

()(6)

1/2/9

Classifier

This docunant contains nolther recomendations

noe emolusions of tho

te 1e ane pronetoy

of the DEt end is loaned to your agenci st eno

1to contents are not te be fatributed outside

your egency.

Ense Alcution

SECRET

L

DocId: 32302837

Page 9

---

