# docid-32298163

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10220-10439

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 92-3167-17

Released under the John

F. Kennedi

Assassination Recorde

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NW 45854 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

MADVAY, J. EDWARD

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 06/20/1958

PAGES: 20

SUBJECTS :

SMO, OC, RACK AND SUBV, GAMBLING ACT, ASSOC, BKG,

RES, EMP, RCK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1A, INDEX PAGES 18-19

v9.1

HH 45854

DocId: 32298163

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

PG 92-234

STASIAK said that he was of the opinion that NELSON was

considered one of JOHN LA ROCCA's boys since he and MIKE

GENOVESE are in the car wash business together.

February 19, 1958, I-3, who requested his identity remain

-stated he

confidential and who stated he will not testify at any

future Federal or State proceedings, advised that he is

closely associated with JOHN LA ROCCA and MIKE GENOVESE

and is familiar with many of the individuals who hang

around the Red Eagle Club formerly called the Genovese

Cocktail Lounge,

412 Larimer Avenue, Pittsburgh.

said that ARTHUR NELSON has patronized the Red Eagle Club

and is a close associate of MIKE GENOVESE; howevel, mop men!

has never been permitted to attend meetings of the

in the Pittsburgh rackets when these men meétaat the

cocktail lounge.

Pa

On March 11, 1958, Lieutenant JOHN JAMES, Pittsburgh Police

Department advised that he is personally acquainted within

ARTHUR NELSON and from personal knowledge stated that

NELSON desired to get out of the rackets and become completely

legitimate because he has a son who he wishes to help become

a doctor. Lieutenant. JAMES said that NELSON wanted to get

out of the numbers business and become disassociated from

NELSON desires to

devote his time to the motel business and had progressed to

the extent whereby he had blueprints of a motel which he

planned tocoperate on Route 22 near Monroeville, Pa.

JAMES

pointed out that NELSON claimed he needed approximately

$87,000 to start on his motel enterprise and that the only

available source for this amount of money was

some of his

associates who were numbers writers and racketeers in thetEast

Liberty section of Pittsburgh.

A check of long distance telephone calls made from Archie's

Automatic Car Wash, 8050 Bennett Street, Pittsburgh, and from

NELSON's residence,

Churchill, Pa.,

revealed that contact need down the fund telecated,

West Eighth Street, East Liverpool, Ohio.

Division advised on February 21, 1950, that. this company is

operated by ROBERT MC DANIEL, Vice-President, and THAYER

MC DANIEL, President.

Hüne,

Incorporated is

a business of

THAYER MC DANIEL in which MC DANIEL controls all the juke box

and pinball machines in the East Liverpool, Ohio area.

MC DANIEL Is reportedas the owner of the building which houses

-8-

NW 45854 DooId: 32298163 Page 2

---

