# docid-32315510

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records collection Act of 1992 (91 U5t 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10342-10228

RECORD SERIES: DE

ÁGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-228-857

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: FITZPATRICK

TO : DE

TITLE:

DATE: 06/03/1963

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS:

ANTHONY GIACALONE (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS:

49.1

DocId: 32315510 Page 1

25

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUM

-

TO:

FROM:

SAC, DETROIT (137-2879)

SA ROBERT N. FITZPATRICK

SUBJECT:

DE 878-C-TE

Dates of contact

5/9/63

Titles and File #s on which contacted

STANLEY EDWARD FREEMAN, aka, TFIS

UNSUB: Theft of American Freight For-

warding Truck, Lic. 1351 CE, Detroit

Mich., 5/2/63,

TFIS

EUGENE ELLSWORTH AYOTTE, aka, et al

NBA; MAIL FRAUD - CONSPIRACY

ANTHONY "TONY" GIACALONE, aka, AR

VITO "BILLY"' GIACALONE, aka,

AR

ANTHONY "BLACK TONY" TERAMINE, aka, AR

CHARLES "CHICKIE" SHERMAN, aka,

AR

JOHN SERRA, aka, AR

PETER VITALE, aka, AR

POLICE CORRUPTION FILE

SAMUEL JOSEPH GIORDANO, aka, AR

JOSEPH "WHIP" TRIGLIA,

aka, AR

JAMES "BIFFO" MACCAGNONE, aka, AR

LOUIS LA HOOD SARKIS, aka, AR

MICHAEL THOMAS, aka, AR

ZENO BARRACO, aka,

AR

NICK DITTA; aka, AR

FRANK MUDARO, aka, AR,

JOSEPH VALENTI, aka, AR

CRIME CONDITIONS IN MICHIGAN

SA MOHICAN

ALFRED VARGA, aka, AR

HANDBOOK CONTROL FILE

NUMBERS CONTROL FILE

RAYMOND HICKS, aka,

SAMUEL MENDELSOHN, aka

MICHAEL RUBINO, aka "MIKE" AR

Rating

EXCELLENT

RNE: BJM

(27)

Date:

6/3/63

/x/CI // SI

/ / PCI / / PSI

15-8201 (R. F. O'Neill):

15-8280 (R. F. O'Neill)

49-1253 (Keehan)

92-228 (Lunt)

92-438

(Shelburne)

92-442 (Phillips)

92-557

(Iseman)

92-562

(Shirley)

92 - 629

(Arnett)

92-647

(Heystek)

92-660

(Fitzpatrick)

92-664

(Montefiore)

92-669

(Transeth)

92-672

(Fitzpatrick)

92-680

(Lunt)

92-743

92-833

(Bickford)

(Transeth)

92-834

(Shirley)

92-861

(Montefiore

92-876 Montefiore

92-1004 (Fitzpatrick)

162-18

(Shelburne)

162-19 (Cammarota)

162-14

(Iseman)

162-151

(Shelburne)

92-229 (Montefiore)

Coverage

SAME

22 - 328

-831

searche

Indexed

Serialized am Filed

June 3,

1963

FBI - Detroit

LUNI

DocId: 32315510 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

Informant advised that there has been formed recently

in Detroit a very active burglary gang composed of four members

who are in their mid 20's. He said that they are all Army

veterans and they use four walkie-talkies on their "scores"®

Informant identified two members of this gang as JACK (LNU),

age 26, and DICK (LNU) age 25, brothers, who are the grandsons

of JOHN CAROLL, who owns

the JOHN S. CAROLL REALTY at 13243

Harper Avenue,

Detroit.

Informant

advised that JOE VALENTI is

an employee of the John Caroll Realty (which firm also is some-

times listed by NICK DITTA as DITTA's place of employment).

Informant advised that this gang is' very clever with

their use of the four walkie-talkies which they bought for

$240.00 a set, and he claimed that it would be difficult for

any police officer to get within three blocks of any "score"

this gang is working on.

Informant advised that this gang

"took off" the safe in Winnie's Bar, 11886 Charlevoix and they

got $10,090.00 from the "pete". Informant stated that the

article which appeared in the paper the following day regarding

this safe job reflected that only $8200.00 was taken in the

burglary. He said that these four guys are real professional in

their work and each carries à

"piece" on every

"score".

•In=

formant advised that in the Winnie's Bar "job" they calmly

smashed the ADT alarm with a sledge hammer, though this was

unnecessary as WINNIE (LNU), the owner of the bar, had forgotten

to connect Ithe ADT alarm prior to leaving the bar

that night.

Informant said that this gang "peeled" the bar safe and

grabbed the two bags of money which they found. He advised

that actually the bar owner had wrapped a large amount of play

money with two $20.00 bills around the top and bottom of each

of the two rolls and the four guys in this

• "mob" actually had

to return to the bar not only a second but a third time that

same night to get the total amount of $10,090.00.

Informant sad

that following this

"safe job" DICK (LNU) left for Texas. He

added that JOHN CAROLL has bought stolen merchandise for

years.

Informant commented that he recently sold CAROLL seven

cases of "hot" cigarettes.

Informant advised that he continues to operate the

restaurant in the Imperial Hotel. He said that Inspector GENE

GEIBIG of the 5th precinct was at the Hotel the previous night,

5/8/63, from about 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. and he got pretty

drunk while drinking with "CHICKIE" SHERMAN. Informant re

marked that Inspector GEIBIG is

a periodic visitor of SHERMAN's,

DocId: 32315510

Page 3

---

## Page 4

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

as is Inspector PAUL SHERIDAN, at the hotel, usually in the

evenings. He said that the other night he watched "CHICKIE"

pass money to GEIBIG in the hotel bar. Informant added that

SHERMAN had bragged to him that he also has some CIB men on

his payroll.

Informant advised that one of the conditions on

which he took over the Imperial Hotel Restaurant, which was

laid down by "CHICKIE" SHERMAN, was that he had to contract

for disposal service from the Tri-County Sanitation. Informant

stated that "CHICKIE" telephoned PETE VITALE regarding Tri

County service and Informant then contracted for it with VITALE

Informant advised that PETE VITALE'S daughter is

marrying

SAM BARRACO's son next month, June, 1963. He stated

that BARRACO is the brother of ZENO BARRACO, who is also

known as JIMMY ZENO, a down-river bookmaker closely associated

with "CHICKIE" SHERMAN.

Informant stated that SAM BARRACO

is a

brother-in-law of

TONY DANA, a Wyandotte Hoodlum who ob

tained prominence before the Kefauver Committee. He added

that DANA, who is the brother of PAT DANA, is now a director

of a Wyandotte bank.

Informant advised that MIKE THOMAS frequents the

Imperial Hotel bar and is in company with "CHICKIE" SHERMAN

a lot.

Informant added that MIKE THOMAS moved the syndicate bar

bute game from Ecorse, Michigan, to a hall at Tuxedo and Hamil-

ton Avenues, in Highland Park, Michigan.

Informant advised that he is in daily contact with

"CHICKIE" SHERMAN.

He stated that SHERMAN told him recently

that he does not intend to purchase any more $50.00 federal

wagering stamps.

He said that "CHICKIE" commented "why should

you go to jail without them."

Informant said that "CHICKIE'sY attorney on his tax case is

FRED WALKER.

He revealed that "CHICKIE" told him that he and

WALKER were going to travel to Washington, D.C. for a hearing

on his tax case although "CHICKIE" is resigned to his belief

that he will get at least a year in prison for tax evasion.

Informant advised that the previous day he went to

JOHNNY SERRA to borrow money

to make hispayroll at the Hotel

Restaurant.

Informant said that actually it was TARZAN

CHRISTOPHERSKI's idea and TARZAN drove him over to SERRA's

= 3 .

DocId: 32315510 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records. Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE. 137-2879

in the Fort Wayne Hotel. He stated that "CHICKIE" got "real

hot''. about him and TARZAN going over to borrow money from SERRA.

Informant advised that "CHICKIE" told him to borrow his money

not SERRA's and that he wouldn't charge "juice" for the loan

either.

He claimed that "CHICKIE" also got angry about TARZAN

suggesting that Informant contact SERRA.

He said that CHICKIE"

emphasized that TARZAN is not 'with him" but only drives him

(CHICKIE) around town occasionally.

Informant advised that

"CHICKIE" stated to him to the effect "I never use TARZAN when

I need a good job done, I use VIC CURLANIS."

Informant advised that MIKE THOMAS was at the hotel

at 3:15 p.., May 6, 1963, to see "CHICKIE"• He stated that

shortly after JOE DaVIS,

the manager of the

Strathmore Hotel,

70 West Alexandria Street, who is an uncle of LOUIS LA HOOD,

called CHICKIE" to borrow money. Informant said that DAVIS

sent TONY GIORDANO, who runs the restaurant in the Strathmore

Hotel and who is the younger brother of SAMMY GIORDANO, over to

see "CHICKIE" about picking up the money. Informant said that

"CHICKIE" turned DAVIS down for a loan.

Informant advised that the previous morning, 5/8/63;

CHICKIE

was contacted by MORREY KATZ, who had just gotten in

town from Chicago, and apparently they had some "heavy

business" as "CHICKIE" went off with KATZ. Informant said that

MOSES "MACHINE "GUN MOE" MARANIAN was in the Imperial Hotel last

night about 6:00 o' clock.

He said that MARANIAN is "real

tight" with VIC CURLANIS.

Informant stated that BILL BINDER

drove into town from New

York this morning and came to the

Hotel and picked up GINO MARRA and they left together.

Informant advised that JOHNNY AYOTTE continues to,

operate the White Elephant Restaurant on Conant Ave. near East

Eight Mile Rd. next door to the Hoods Bowling Alley.

Informant

stated that AYOTTE has been hanging around recently with JACK

O'MALLEY, an active burglar who is employed as a press man at

the Detroit Free Press.

He said that AYOTTE has hired a small

band for his place and that HANK DINVERNO is the bouncer for

AYOTTE's new business.

Informant added that SAMMY GIORDANO

also hangs around

the Whit e Elephant Restaurant a lot at

night.

• 4-

DocId: 32315510 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 1372879

Informant advised that the Macomb Social Club, which

is at Utica and 12 Mile Roads, is going wide open

three nights

Saturday, Sunday.

a week, Friday, than the Star Social Club which is currently

He said that the Club presently

has more action

known also as the Steren Assembly Club (Steren meaning "Star"

in Jewish). He stated that the Macomb Social Club belongs to

BUSTER LUCIDO and JOE "WHIP" TRIGLIA and mostly craps are

played at the club with occasional card games too.

Informant

advised that the club is reportedly doing 50-60 thousand

dollars business.

He identified PETE LEONARDO,.

"HAFI" ELIAS,

and FRANK MUDARO's sOn-in-law, who is called "CHEECH" or "CHICHI"

as employees and "stick-men" at the Macomb Social Club.

Informant advised that the previous week. "JOCKO"

PHILLIPS

and BARNEY SCHWARTZ stole a

tray of jewelry out of some

Detroit jewelry store. He said that "JOCKO" is a "junkie" who

is very active as a thief, burglar, and "booster" to keep his

narcotics habit going.

Informant advised

that "JOCK" brought

the tray of jewelry, which originally contained 22 women's diamond

rings, to the Imperial Hotel bar to seal them either to

"CHICKIE" "SHERMAN or to some of "CHICKIE's" friends.

Informant

revealed that the whole tray of rings was supposedly worth

$4800.00 retail. He said that "JOCKO" sold

two of the diamond

rings to friends of his and that he had no idea what he

should get for the remaining 20 rings.

Informant revealed that

one of the rings contained a one karat diamond stone but that

the others were mostly "caps". Informant advised that he sold

the

tray containing 20 rings to a Hungarian guy named "BOZO"

who lives in Del Ray.

He said that "BOZO" has worked at Ford's

for 38 years and that "BOZO's" wife, who has knowledge that her

husband had purchased this "hot" jewelry, is real upset as she

believes that he has jeopardized his job if he is caught. In

formant stated that "BOZO" paid "JOCKO" PHILLIPS $750.00 for this

load of jewelry.

He said that now "BOZO" had asked him

(Informant) to "fence" the diamonds for him. Informant said that

"BOZO" wants his $750.00 back and anything over and above that

would be Informant's profit.

Informant said he brought the

tray of 20 women's diamondrings to NICK DITTA and DITTA offered

him $500.00. He revealed that LOUIE LA HOOD was at the Imperial

Hotel at

the time and he got into the act. Informant advised

that he reluctantly let LA HOOD have the tray of jewelry and

LA HOOD and OTTO SCHILL, with whom IA HOOD has gotten "real

tight" recently, took the jewelry over to BILLY GIACALONE.

Informant related that BILLY GIACALONE called him at the hotel

and offered him $300.00 for the whole tray. He added that he

• 5 •

DocId: 32315510

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John

F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

turned down GIACALONE'S Offer and he was somewhat relieved when

Le HoOD actually brought all the diamond rings back to the hotel..

Informant stated further that "JOCKO" PHILLIPS iS

close to 50 years old. He said that "JOCKO" usually "works" with .-

either BARNEY SCHWARTZ OF FREDDY KAJURSKI.

Informant advised that

about seven or eight days ago "JOCKO" PHILLIPS was coming out of

a "score" in Wyandotte, Michigan and he thought he "got made".. He

said that "JOCKO blew his car" on this "score" 1.e. left it on the

street in Wyandotte.

He said that "JOCKO's" car was a Plymouth

which he had registered in a

phony name.

Informant advised that BOBBY V. GLEICH is buying a

1963 Cadillac convertible.

He said that GLEICH is "in partners"

with TOMMY BOOTH and CHARLEY SAM in the operation of the Flame

Show Bar on John R Street.

Informant added that GLEICH is also

now living with a Negro girl.

He commented additionally that

RAY MONASTERSKI has become real active as a burglar and "pete

man" and that MONASTERSKI specializes in "taking

off" the private

residences and business places

of professional men, doctors,

dentists and the like.

Informant advised that very

few bettors come into the

Imperial Hotel to visit with "CHICKIE" SHERMAN.

He said that

"CHICKIE" is visted mostly by bookmakers. He revealed that

1410?

"CHICKIE's" brother-in-law, SAM MENDELSON, IS In tO see

every morning.

"CHICKIE"

He added that "CHICKIE's" bookmakers around town

include "RED" SCHULTZ and ZENO BARRACO, who is sometimes called

JIMMY ZENO.

Informant advised that "JO JO" (INU), a little

pug-nosed guy who works at the National Burlesque

Theater and

who drives a black Chrysler 300, is also "booking" for "CHICKIE".

Informant estimated that the most active time during which

"CHICKIE" is contacted by his bookmakers is between 7:30 a...

and 10:30 a.m. and also between 5:00 p.Il. and 8:00 p.M. He

added that "CHICKIE" is never at the Imperial Hotel on Wednes

days from about 11:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., at which time he takes

Avenue, Detroit. Informant commented that HARRY MELTZER runs

the Oakland Baths, and that "CHICKIE" meets his friends there

the one day of the week.

He stated too that usually TARZAN

CHRISTOPHERSKI drives "CHICKIE" around in TARZAN'S 1963 blue

door Ford.

two.

Informant mentioned MIKE RUBINO and commented that

apparently RUBINO is very anxious about his forth-coming trial

in the Palm Furniture Bankruptcy case. He said that he was with

6

DocId: 32315510 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

RUBINO the previous Saturday getting a haircut at Jimmy the

Barber's in the Seville Hotel. Informant described RUBINO as

"penitentiary hip". He explained that RUBINO is really

pretty stupid when he deals with legitimate people but on the

contrary, he is pretty sharp when he deals with his own kind.

Informant advised that AL VARGA is sometimes known

by the nickname of

"SCHNOBBY" He mentioned, in regards to

VARGA, that he had heard the story that many years ago some

guy came to VARGA and told VARGA a long story about having

a fortune buried in Europe and that he needed a thousand

dollars to go back to Europe and dig it up. He said that VARGA

was promised a large "piece" of the buried money. Informant

advised that VARGA falls for the story and he gave the guy

He added that the guy went to Europe, got the

money, and brought it back and kept it hidden in Varga's

basement.

Informant clained that VARGA supposedly went into

the numbers business from the money he made on this deal.

formant related that he has frequent contact with AL VARGA. He

advised that VARGA has good numbers action presently although the

numbers generally have been real bad.

Informant related that

VARGA always keeps $42, 000.00 in reserve for his business and

yesterday VARGA told him that he was going to see MIKE THOMAS

as he has to "make principal of $2200.00 with MIKE."

Informant advised that "JOCKO" PHILLIPS, GINO MARRA,

and "SNOOZIE" NIEWINSKI hang around a lot together at the

52nd Show Bar,

7443 Michigan Avenue, Detroit.

Informant

stated that JOE COMELLA's wife works at the 52nd Show Bar and

COMELLA was a former "rap partner" of GINO MARRA's.. Informant

revealed that COMELLA Lives at 1548 New York Street, Lincol Park

Mich: and his auto license number is FF 1638.

Informant advised that LOUIE LA HOOD's dance is coming

up on Sunday, May 19, 1963, at Cobo Hall.

He said that LA HOOD

is out each day hustling the sale of dance tickets and selling

ads for his dance program. Informant stated that "CHICKIE"

SHERMAN "has a piece of LOUIE's dance" He advised that he

heard "CHICKIE" warning LA HOOD the other day not to "fool

with" any of the dance money.

Informant advised that all the bookmakers in Detroit

made a lot of money on the kentucky Derby the previous Saturday.

He said that Candy Spots was

and most of

the money was on Candy Spots to win.

SHERMAN was in real good humor after the race

as he won a "ton

of money" when Candy Spots lost..

- 7=

DocId: 32315510

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 1372879

Informant advised that he was in company with NICK

automobile

DITTA the pretlots suw brieans this coming week end and he was

He stated that DITTA was planning an

at his garage supervising the minor repair work he was having

done on the car he was going to use, a four door 1958 Cadillac.

Informant advised that he was with GINO MARRA on

May 6, 1963. He said that MARRA drives a truck for Yale

Cartage Company and the other day, May 2, 1963, while making

a stop on Congress street, somebody stole MARRA's truck.

Informant said that GINO, whose real name is EUGENE MARRA,

suspected that either "SNOOZIE" NIEWINSKI OT JOE COMELLA set

him up.

He stated that that

day he and GINO went and grabbed

"SNOOZIE" in efforts to get GINO's truck back.

Informant

stated that GINO is "really hot" as he had nothing to do with

the theft and he may lose his job because of it.

Informant

telephoned on 5/6/63 that GINO MARRA's truck had just been

recovered parked on Seward Ave. and that examination found only

about three boxes missing off it. Informant advised that MARRA

told him that there was approximately $20,000.00 in merchandise

on the truck including two freezers. He said that MARRA told

him that his first stop that day was the Kay Anos Furs where

he dropped off several packages of furs. Informant advised

that MARRA argued with his supervisor at Yale Cartage that if

he was going to have his own truck "beat" he would have "gone"

with these furs too.

Informant advised that "SNOOZIE" NIEWINSKI is handling

baseball cards this season.

He said that GINO was recently

making plans to "go in on"

the baseball cards and "SNOOZIE" found

out about it.

Informant stated that GINO is convinced that

"SNOOZIE" told the police on him as they immediately looked him

up and questioned him about his "baseball

action."

Informant advised that GINO MARRA is a very active

burglar.

He said that on a recent evening MARRA took him over

to "case" the home of Mrs. WEBER on Seminole St. in Indian

Village.

Informant stated that Mrs. WEBER is the widow of the

Informant revealed that

MARRA also has RUSSELL TRILCK's home "cased" and he is waiting

for the right moment to "take it off." Informant advised that

GINO MARRA's partner in his burglary activities is JOHN HICKEY,

who is one of the Hickey brothers from Ecorse, Michigan.

- 8 =

DocId: 32315510

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 13742879

Informant said that, though he las no proof, he be

lieves that GINO MARRA went on the burglary of the ALFRED GLANCY

home in Grosse Pointe, Michigan. He said that he met a "ten-

percenter" named PAUL (INU), a Jewish guy, who told

him

(Informant) that he had been offered two pieces from the GLANCY

"job" Informant stated that PAUL (LNU) told the story that

the guy who bought the two pieces, which were a broach and a

dinner ring, paid $$500.00

for them and that he later took

them to New York City where he sold them to a "private party" for

$45,000.00. He added that the two pieces were said to be

actually worth $59,000.00.

Informant claimed that he had no

knowledge of this "score"

but that the individu I who "handled"

the two pieces is also supposedly involved in the smuggling in

of uncut diamond stones from the Netherlands.

Informant adyised that he met an individual named

HARRY JAMES at the Imperial Hotel.

He described JAMES as a

close friend of TARZAN CHRISTOPHERSKI who is about 33-34 years

old and a clean-cut looking kid who "looks like a cop." He

stated that JAMES is a real good safe burglar who did five

years in Jackson Prison and, in fact, was just recently paroled.

Informant in conversing about HARRY

JAMES, mentioned an incident

involving JAMES which points up the "tremendous clout" CHICKIE

SHERMAN has with the Detroit PoliceDept. and particularly the

First Precinct.

Informant related that the previous Monday

TARZAN got a phone call that JAMES was being held at the

First Precinct charged with reckless driving and drunken

driving.

it charged vitat

He stated that "CHICKIE" made a phone call from the

Imperial Hotel at TARZAN's request and TARZAN went immediately

to the First Precinct and got JAMES out.

Informant advised that HARRY JAMES had the Playboy

Lounge at 17569 East Warren near Cadieux Avenue "cased" for a

"safe job". He said that JAMES was going to rob the place but

he could not get permission. He said that JAMES contacted

"BLACK TONY" TERAMINE about betting permission to "take off" th

Playboy Lounge but that JAMES was told in no uncertain terms

not to touch the Playboy lounge as it "belonged"

to TONY

GIACALONE •

Informant advised that RAY HICKS suffered a heart

attack this past week. He stated Ithat RAY HICKS is in a record

ad to that eX

business with OTTO SCHILL at 17923 I1 Mile Road, Roseville,.

Michigan, telephone number 778-8390, which is called the Ray-Kim

record distributors. Informant mentioned about a load of Old Gold

Cigarettes missing some time ago.

He said that an individual

DocId: 32315510 Page 10

---

## Page 11

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

named RAY ALMORE (PH) got these cigarettes at the time.

Informant advised that LOUIE ELLIS, who is

sometimes known as

LOUIE ELLOIS and LOUIE CASSIEZ, is dying of cancer of the

rectum.

He remarked that LOUIE CASSIEZ is an Old "bag-man" in

MIKE RUBINO's numbers house.

Informant advised that TEDDY

PATRICCA is now tending bar at Grenaders Bary in downtown

Detroit. He commented that LOUIE LA HOOD iS

"really hot'' at

"BIFFO" MACCAGNONE recently as "BIFFO" apparently has been

heard to claim loudly to the effect that he can beat the

VIOLA CaSe if "LAHOOD can stand up."

Informant advised on 5/9/63, telephonically that the

two kids who are pulling burglaries around town with the use

of four walkie-talkies are brothers who live on Cooper Street

in Detroit.

He said that they are named DICK (INU) and JACK

(LNU) and JACK lives with his family on Cooper Street between

Warren and Forest Aves. In the third house from the corner

where the grocery

store is located.

He added that DICK (LNU)

lives with his mother on Cooper Street down a few houses ! "

from his brother JACK (INU) and across the street.

Informant advised that he received a letter on May

6, 1963, from STAN FREEMAN who

is confined to the Wayne County

Jail:

He said that FREEMAN mentioned that he had been in

Federal Court the previous wednesday and had his bond reduced

from $25,000.00 to $7500.00. He said that FREEMAN mentioned

that he is awaiting trial for having & gun with a silencer.

Informant advised that FREEMAN also told him that his wife is

divorcing him. He stated that FREEMAN said that someone had

broken into his home yesterday, 5/5/63.

he later talked to FREEMAN's wife about this and she told him

that JOHN DE FOREST had broken into their home and had taken.

her TV set, radio, and some other items which belonged to

FREEMAN.

He related that Mrs. FREEMAN told him that the

police who investigated the B&E

also told her that JOHN

DE FOREST had broken in.

Informant mentioned that FREEMAN

is suffering from some sort of skin disease and that FREEMAN'S'

body is covered with sores.

He added that FREEMAN really

should be in a

hospital because of this condition.

Informant advised on May 9, 1963, that he just got a

call from FREEMAN at the Imperial Hotel. He said that FREEMAN

was in Federal Court and had his bond reduced to $1000.00.

He

said that FREEMAN told him over the phone that DOC SAVAGE just

went his bond and that he (FREEMAN) is on his way to the hotel

as he has "got something real good"

= 10 =

DocId:32315510

Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

Informant advised that FREEMAN contacted him

and gave

him details of a real good "score" he has lined up on a business

man who lives in the Birmingham, Michigan area who has three

safes hidden in his home.

Informant said that FREEMAN told him

that the guy he was planning to "beat" owned Little Harry's

Restaurant on East Jefferson Avenue and also the Kingsley Inn

on Woodward Avenue in Birmingham.

Informant advised that

after hearing details of FREEMAN's"score" he turned it down and

FREEMAN left the hotel on his way to Cooper Street to give the

"score" to the two brothers JACK (LNU) and DICK (LNU) who work

with the walkie-talkies.

DocId: 32315510

Page 12

---

