# docid-32306148

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10289-10278

HQ

92-6054-2266

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/27/1968

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEETING, RES, VARIO, PAUL, DETERMINE BOSSES,

LUCHESE FAMILY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

DocId: 32306148

Page 1

61

---

## Page 2

Rele

DAT

Keer the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleution Act i 1992 144 USe

14-2017

VIA TELETYPE

Note) .

JAN 2 7 1968

ENCIPHERED

NR-

-5/46 PM EST RML

sap

DEFERRED

1-27-68

TO DIRECTOR (92-6954) AND NEW YORK (92-2300)

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON

---ENCODED---

FROM MIAMI (92-853) (P)

2P

AIr. Tolson.

is.

Mr. Mohr--

I". Bishop..

Mr * Casper

Mr. Calahan

nra

JGal;

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter-

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy.

LA COSA NOSTRA. AR - CONSPIRACY.

Meducheue

MM TWELVE THIRTY ONE DASH C TE ADVISED TWENTY SEVEN INSTANT

, BEEN IN CONTACT WITH MIKE SABELLA, ASCERTAINED FOLLOWING INFO. MEETING

TO BE HELD AT LONG ISLAND RESIDENCE OF PAUL VARIO, LUCHESE FAMILY.

ALL ATTENDEES WILL ARRIVE BY BOAT, NOTED VARIO MAINIAINS RESIDENCE ON

SHORE • DATE OF MEETING WILL BE LATE MAY OR EARLY JUNE NEXT. INFORM-

ANT STATES HE WILL PROBABLY ATTEND. PURPOSE OF MEET IS TO DECIDE PERMANENT

HEADS OF LUCHESE FAMILY• HENCEFORTH ALL LON FAMILIES ARE TO BE HEADED.

BY TWO INDIVIDUALS RATHER THAN ONE. HEAD OF LUCHESE GROUP PRO TEM

IS JOE PALICADES HOWEVER MEETING WILL DIERMINE PERMANENI BOSSES •

OTHER PROBLEM TO BE RESOLVED IS THAT OF JOE BONANNO. BONANNO HAS NO

CHANCE TO BE ALLOWED

TO BE HANDLED IN MOST CIRCUMSPECI MANNEREX-105'

BACH IN LEN ACCORDINE TO INFORMAN ANO

• ABOVE INFS266

BUREAU AND NEW YORK TO BE KEPT ADVIRES-34 FURTHER DEVALBPMOGAS.

INFORMANT STATES HAS BEEN TOLD DEFINITELY NO MEETING IN MIAM

CONTEMPLATED AT PRESENT TIME, AT LEAST WITH REGARD TO LUCHESE DASH

BONANNO SITUATION.

8B: 115, 19968

DocId: 32306148 Page 2

---

