# docid-32306758

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10290-10398

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-4TH NR 2310

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO :

SAC, NO

TITLE :

DATE: 04/11/1968

'PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, OC, IDENT, CIP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306758

Page 1

27

---

## Page 2

Released wider the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210T Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

h - MIX.

Kent

•1 - Mr. Emery

SAC, New Orleans (137-1871)

4/11/68

PERSONAL ATTENTION

Director, FBI (66-2542-11-33)

TOP ACHELON CRIMINAL INFORMANT PROGRAM

LA COSA NOSTRA * ANTI-RACKETEERING

It has previously been pointed out that one

of our primary goals in the Criminal Intelligence Progran

1a the full identification and subsequent prosecution of

the membership of La Cosa Nostra (LCN), the dominant group

in organized crime in this country. With an ever increasing

public

avaronesa of the sigoificance of LCN on a national

basis, and in consideration of the Bureau's heavy

rosponsibilities in the flold of organized crine, it is

necessary that complete intelligence be developed rogarding

LoW.

A roview of progress reported in the identification

of menbers of ICH reveals that a substantial number have been

identified.

However, your office has identified only three

members within your division. This serves to bighlight the

urgent

, need for the New Orleans Office to obtain sources who

can rellably identify ICN menbershiy in your division.

Thẻ:

basic make-up.öf LCN in the state of Louisiane has been

relatively undeveloped.

Our investigations of IN have revealed the absolute

provide accurate and authentic data regarding this organization.

without such sources.

You are expected to show a marked improvement in

identifying LCW members within your division.

To this end,

there must be a concentrated and imaginative effort to

penetrate ICH with member-informants.

The signiticant

achievoments by many offices in this

field points out that

hard-hitting,

continuous progran will produce concrete results.

(92-6054)

La

Cosa Nostra - Anti-Racketeeri

NOT RECORDER

1966

JiK: bjn

(7)

ORIGINAL FILED IN

1508

DocId: 32306758

Page 2

---

