# docid-32286636

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10195-10412

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-190

Released under the John

. kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 45966 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

LABADIE, STEPHEN J.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/04/1961

• PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/16/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45966

DocId: 32286636

Page 1

42

---

## Page 2

TP 92-1

Miami advised by the same communication may be identical with

BENJAMIN HUSICK, FBI Number 628552, who is a book maker and

gambler in Miami Beach and runs the Recreation Center, Inc.,

540 Washington Avenue, Miami Beach, which is frequented by

gamblers in that area.

Telephone Company (Protect Identity), advised SA

on 4/27/61dtelephone RE 6-6973 (at subject's residence, Tampa)

for the billingaperiod 4/11/61 had following tolls:

12/7/60 Collect from Havana 3-3513, EVARISTO GAVEIA, which

source said could be GAVILLA tO SANTO TRAFFICANTE

shortly after 3:00 p.m.

3/11,14,

23/61

4/1/61

4/2/61

To Gainesville, Fla., FR 2-5516

To Clearwater, Fla., 446-7286, Capri Restaurant

To Miami PL 4-1912 about 7:10

pm

EVARISTO GAVEIA Or GAVILLA may be identical with

EVARISTO GARCIA who was reported by HAV-33 (protect) on 10/24/58

as one of the principal interest holders in the Hotel Deauville

Casino, Havana;

along with subject and who was identified as

a'bolita banker" in Havana for years and as a former partner

Of FREDESVINDO BOSQUE CUETO, FBI No. 420 934, in Havana-Madrid

Jai Alai Fronton.

Gainesville, Fla., 2-5616 previously identified as

to RICHARD EDWARD VALDES, boyfriend of SARAH ANN TRAFFICANTE.

Miami, Fla., PL 4-1912 previously identified as to

STEFANO RANDAZZO.

On 4/21/61 on conducting a surveillance of 2505

Bristol Avenue, SA LABADIE noted a truck at the TRAFFICANTE

residence which had on the side thereof Suncoast Tilee, Telephone

RE 6-7577, It being noted that perhaps some interior work may

be performed at such residence.

The 1961 Tampa City Directory

lists Suncoast Tile of Tampa,

Contractors, 3012 Cordelia,

operated by WILFRED RAMOS and WILFREDO RAMOS. It is here being

COSTA LONGO, at that time residing at 2119

Beach, Tampa, telephone callswere placed from his residence

to a WILFORD

REMOS Or RAMOS at Mulberry, Florida, and therefore,

no further exploration is being made at this time.

D

COVER PAGE

182-10015°

• NH 45966 DooId: 32286636 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

INFORMANTS

TP T-I, MARY MOTT, National Airlines, Hillsboro Hotel, requested

her identity be protected.

TP T-2 is TP 41-PC.

IP T-3, EDGAR ADAIR, Intelligence Unit, IRS, Tampa, requested

identity be protected.

TP T-4, WINFIELD B. ELROD,

Assistant Collector, Collections

Unit, IRS, Tampa, requested identity

be concealed.

ERS

REVIEWED BY YETJFK TASK FORCE

ON

7/22/98 dak

RELEASE IN FULL

EL RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

E*

COVER PAGE

102-194159

Г.

AW 45966

DocId: 32286636

Page 3

---

## Page 4

.1

HD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

JEK Act 6 (4)

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File No.:

Title:

SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE

5/4/61

92-1

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, IR, aka

Office:

TAMPA

Bureau File No.: 92-2781

Character:

• ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

for Miami, Florida.

Tampa,

advised subject told him he had an apartment in

Miami Beach and was spending his time there; that

his wife was in Miami Beach one week ago from 4/27/61,

where she saw subject's wife, who related that she

had

furnished apartment in Miami Beach.

-p-

DETAILS

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA

In the night of April 17, 1961, subject was observe

in front of his residence, 2505 Bristol Avenue, by SAs FRANCIS

X. O'BRIEN and STEPHEN J. LABADIE.

License numbers of cars

at 2505 Bristol at this pertinent

time obtainable were noted

as follows: 1961 Florida license 3-8160 on a dark green Plymouth,

1961 Florida license 3-17115 on a pink Chevrolet, 1961 Florida

license 3-21500 on a dark Chevrolet.

On April 19, 1961, VERA VAIDEN, Auto TageAgency,

Hillsborough County Courthouse, advised SA LABADIE that her

records reflected the following registrations for 1961 tags:

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the Brand isloaned to lyour ageney;, it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

HH 45966 DooId: 32286636 Page 4

---

## Page 5

TP 92-1

TP T-2 advised SA LABADIE on April 24, 1961, he

had ascertained subject left Tampa on April 18, 1961, and

that his mode of travel to Miami and address was not determined.

As of April 26, 1961, this source advised he was leaving for

Mexico City.

TP T-3 advised SA LABADIE on April 26. 1961.

TP T-4 advised SA LABADIE on 4/26/61 that

JEK Law 11(a)

Citizens Building,

advised

SA JOHN R. BRET on April 27,

1961, that subject had

been in his office about six weeks previous

thereto to have

his eyes checked, at which time subject advised him he had an

apartment in Miami Beach, and was spending his time there.

This source stated that his wife was in Miami

Beach one week

ago, where she saw Mrs. SANTO TRAFFICANTE, and Mrs. TRAFFICANTE

related to source's wife that she had anfurnished apartment in

Miami Beach

to

The address of subject in Miami Beach was unknown

JFK Act 6 (4)

-

3*

92-2781-1985

HH 45966

DocId: 32286636

Page 5

---

