# docid-32288468

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of T992 149 U5c 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10199-10244

RECORD SERIES :

HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-9-1118

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/23/1962

15

THP, GAL, SGI, GAMBLING, ASSOC, MISUR, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32288468

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-350

MARCI: We'll see.

We're down flat.

STEVE:

That's what I told him. I said you can hear a lot

of (obs) stories, but you can take my word for it, MORGAN,

that we're flattened down completely. If there's anything

going, they are going' on their own.

There's nothing to do

with the chief (ph). All right he says.

What if he wants

to make a meet with somebody, all right I says you tell me

what he wants to do and I can set up a meet for him.

MARCI:

OK. Tell him you can't do nothing til we let you

know.

The above is interesting in that it lends credence

to the opinion held by Agents working top hoodlums matters;

in the Chicago Division to the effect that gambling has been

down especially in the Loop area of Chicago.

This also

would furnish a reason why MARCI, working on behalf of the

Syndicate,

has worked so hard on

the operations of strip

joints within the Loop, this being the main source of

revenue to top syndicate leaders at this time.

Recent

contact with CG 6443-C has developed that 50% of all proceeds

from Loop strip joints with the exception of those operated

by LOUIE ARGER are given to the Syndicate. Because of

ARGER's close relationship to GUS ALEX only 20% of the

proceeds of his clubs are turned over.

It is interesting

to note that these people feel that RIORDAN is now ready

to be reached and that gambling can again be opened up

in this district. Following the departure of this indivi

dual, D'ARCO and MARCI returned for a short while to a

discussion regarding the Alderman's job which is as follows:

D'ARCO:

We'd heard about it if he was in the precinct.

BUDDY (JACOBSON) would have heard.

MARCI:

He doesn't hear (obs). He'd run into him and think

nothing of it. Would you think anything of it?

D'ARCO:

GUSSIE told me to tell BUDDY. Not to tell BUDDY

that he's workin' out of

MARCI:

Does GUSSIE know if he told that to MOE?

-11-

DocId: 32288468 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-350

The last several hours of the day were spent

mostly in D'ARCO's office discussing the possible change in

the Alderman's job.

The following text is self- explanatory

with the exception of the fact that the TONY mentioned is

id entical to ANTHONY GIROLAMI, Cook County Probate Clerk,

who is a close friend of D'ARCO and who is identical with

CG 6498-PC.

The conversation was as follows:

D'ARCO:

You got to tell those guys PAT. If they want me

out tell 'em I'm sick.

MARCI:

I'11 tell

'em.

Hell, I'm sick too, and I'm not

going to break in some new guy.

D'ARCO:

It will work out, don't you think.

MARCI:

D'ARCO:

Yeah, don't worry.

They must of talked about this before.

MARCI:

JOHN, SLIM didn't know a (obs) thing about it.

You

mean TONY and them guys.

D'ARCO:

Yeah. Listen, how are we gonna work this deal?

MARCI :

Don't worry JOHN, we'll (obs) him enough to get

him

killed.

D'ARCO:

You know how I'd like to work this, I'd like to be

the Alderman and let someone else be the ward

committeeman. And then will be ...the election.

MARCI:

Let's not talk about it. Let's see if we can get it

straightened out first.

JOHN calls BUDDY JACOBSON and tells him to come

to the office right away.

D'ARCO returns to his office where several conver-

sations take place. JACOBSON arrives and goes into D'ARCO's

office. Door closes. Even with door closed D'ARCO can be

heard screaming loudly.

Very excited.

"I've always stood

up for you."

"I said MOE I won't stay here."

"They don't

say nothing, until after it's over."

"MOE..." D'ARCO is

talking about MOE continually now.

Can't be picked up

clearly.

- 14-

DocId: 32288468

Page 3

---

