# docid-32296952

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10218-10228

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-1475

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45737 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

DATE: 03/19/1965

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

ABR, ASSOC, INTV, GAMBLING, SUBPOENA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4; 10(a)2

Redact

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

14 45737

DocId: 32296952

Page 1

152

---

## Page 2

"ant

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

5010-107

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO

RNMENT

Memorandum

1O

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2717)

FRONTO SAC, PHILADELPHIA (92-444)

SUBJECT:

ANGELO BRUNO, aka.

DATE:

3/19/65

Re Philadelphia teletype to Bureau 3/16/65 and

Bureau letter to Philadelphia 3/18/65.

For the information of the Bureau the following

information is set forth:

on 3/16/65, PH 672-C-TE advised of a conversation

he had with ERNEST PERRICONE on the previous Sunday, 3/13/65.

PERRICONE, who has FELIX JOHN DE TULLIO for a capodecina,

told informant that he, PERRICONE, had been told on an

unspecified date by DE TULLIO "that ANGELO BRUNO had told

FELIX JOHN DE TULLIO that he should prepare for a federal

grand

jury."

There was no additional information developed at this

time.

on 3/18/65, PH 672-C-TE was again in contact with

ERNEST PERRICONE. The results of this contact are not fully

transcribed a date of this letter; however, source did advise

that PERRICONE told him 3/18/65 that DE. TULLIO had told his

"whole regime to prepare for a federal grand jury."

For the information of the Bureau, there is no

information available to the Philadelphia Division at this

time to the effect that a federal grand jury is to be

convened in Philadelphia regarding the activities of the

"Philadelphia family" of La Cosa Nostra." At the present

time, however,

there is a federal grand jury in session in

which, is probing Bureau case

In recent weeks FBI agents, in

connection with the above gambling case, have attempted to

JEK Law 10(a)2

Bureau (92-2717):

-

Philadelphia (92-444) •2

EDH : EMR

(3)

REC: 3

EX-103

92-2717-14175

5

MAR 22 1965

MAR 2519By V.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 45737 DocId: 32296952

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-444

interview Philadelphia Cosa Nostra capodecina NICHOLAS PICCOLO

concerning his association with the Mattei Beer Distributor

Company of Philadelphia. PICCOLO refused to be interviewed

Dy Bureau agents.

The proprietor of the Friendly Tavern at 8th and

Washington Avenue, Philadelphia, ROCCO DI NUBILE,

was also

interviewed br Bureau agents in connection with the above

gambling case.

DI NUBILE answered the questions submitted

by Bureau agents. The bar at 8th and Washington has historically

been a major hangout of Cosa Nostra capodecina FELIX DE TULLIO

and other Cosa Nostra members.

The federal grand jury probing the above gambling

case has subpoenaed various records and it is possible that

BRUNO feels that this grand jury will broaden its investigation

by subpoenaing other persons such as NICHOLAS PICCOLO, who

have refused to be interviewed by the FBI.

JFK Law 10(a)2

With respect to the information furnished by

PH 672-C-TE on 3/18/65, it is pointed out that Cosa Nostra

member

was subpoenaed

at

on

for appearance before a federal

grand jury, SDNY.

It would appear that BRUNO's instructions are the

result of some apprehension arising as a result of the federal

grand jury now in progress in Philadelphia and the federal

grand

jury in session in the Southern District of New York.

BRUNO CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

-2-

92-2717-1475

HH 45737

DocId: 32296952 Page 3

---

