# docid-32316691

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10350-10133

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-98261-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

06/29/1961

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

09/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32316691

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Repo

FD-260

(Porn

32 15-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

St

Reporting Office

TITLE OF CASE...

MIAMI

Office of Origin

MIAMI

ROBERTO R.

PINO;

AGUSTIN CAPO;

ADOLFO PEREZ PRIETO;

RAUL MENA;

NIVIA REYES BALSERA;

LEONARDO ROLANDO BALSERA

"Synopsis: y

Date

6/29/61

Investigative Period

4/25 - 6/28/61

Report made by

Typed By:

LEMAN L. STAFFERPHAS TO OBJECTION TEEW

CHARACTER OF CASE

DECLAOS ARATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF GIA IFORMATION

IS • CUBA

IN THIS DOCUMENT. GMB

9-13-94

124/95

COSMAR

AGeL

Stesco

Dectyest

REFERENCE

Report of SA LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JI., 4/18/61, Miami.

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLAKSE-P-

ON

1-8-97 JFK

LEADS

MIAMI

8

At Miami, Florida:

1)

Will maintain contact with MM 639-S and other

sources in an effort to develop additional information

concerning activities of AGUSTIN CAPO and his anti-CASTRO

Will maintain contact with CIA, Miami, for any

additional information they may be able to furnish concerning

activities of individuals involved in this matter.

Special Agent

Approved

Do not write in spaces below

In Charge

Copies made: 9

Bureau

(105-98261) (RM)

105.

98261

— INS

Miami (RM)

1

• ECC,

Miamy (RM)

1

CIA,

Miamike RM)

U.

87 JUL 3 1961

S. Custons,

Miami (RM)

1

• U.S. Border Patrol, Miami

(RM)

//

1 - WFO (Info) (RM)

3 - Miami (105-3805)

DREC- 6

EX-107

ECEIA

BECEIAS

_Copies made

Copy to: CIA/State/RAB

ONI/OSI/G2

by to ting i on ino.

Date.

SECAST

this report is. loaned; to you by the FBI,

and neither it nor its

contents

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1955 0-344750

NW 54464 DooId: 32316691 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-3805

also advised these reports had reached CIA headquarters

in Washington and that after careful study, he had recommended

that CIA have nothing further to do with CAPO and that he

appeard to be uncontrollable and desirous of broadening his

activities into other fields outside of radio communications.

DU BOIS said, however, that CIA was going to

continue to "monitor" CAPO's activities and he felt that at

some future date if CAPO appears to be more favorably inclined

to be controlled, CIA might use him in some future operation (u)

On June 26, 1961, Mr. DU BOIS informed he had

Learned through DENNIS WATKINS that CAPO had moved his vessel

from Sugarloaf Key and that it is now located on the Miami

River

Miami is maintaining close contact with CIA concerning u

their possible operational interest in CAPO at some future date.

The Bureau will be kept advised.

INFORMANTS

Identity

MM T-1 is MM 639-S contacted by

SA ROBERT JAMES DWYER

MM T-2 is WAYNE ECCLES, Marine

Electronics Sales, Inc.,

Miami, Florida

(Protect by request)

Location

134-238-SubA-445,446

Instant report, page 3

Careful consideration has been given to the sources

mentioned in this report and I symbols were utilized only in

those instances where the identities of the sources must be

concealed.

C*

COVER PAGE

320-13133

54464 DooId: 32316691 Page 3

---

