# docid-32310880

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10308-10094

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-788

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/03/1962

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ASSOC, SKAR, MANNY, B/F INT, SAHARA INN NORTH

MOTEL

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 Docid: 32310880 Page 1

339

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIOR

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUL

3 1962

TELETYPE

PM JLS

Mr. Tolson

, Belmont.

My. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

VIr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans.

Mr. Malone:

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

-Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy.

DEFERRED

7-3-62: 3-33

DIRECTOR /92-3171/

FROM SAC,,

CHICAGO

192-3491 1P

SAMUEL Mo

'GIANCANA, AKA, AR•

DAILY SUMMARY. PCIL

CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF CHICAGO HOOD-

LUMS THROUGH BUSINESS DEALINGS IN JEWELRY BUSINESS, ADVISED

YESTERDAY, HE IS, WELL ACQUAINTED WITH MANNY: SKAR, OWNER OF RECORD OF

THE SAHARA INN NORTH MOTEL, STATES IN HIS OPINION, SKAR IS NOT

FINANCIALLY EQUIPPED ENOUGH TO AFFORD SUCH AN ESTABLISHMENT,

HOWEVER, INFORMANT FEELS THAT THE CHICAGO ORGANIZATION, VIA:

GIANCANA g

. DOES NOT BELIEVE AT THIS TIME THAT AN ESTABLISHMENT SUCH

'AS THE SAHARA IS WORTH AN INVESTMENT OF THE MAGNITUDE REQUIRED. THE

WORD IS, ACCORDING TO SOURCE, THAT IF THE SAHARA PROVES TO BE A

WORTH WHTLE INVESTMENT, THE ORGANIZATION WILL THEN MOVE IN

AND

TAKE IF OVER. /U)

PCI, AND ALDERMAN FOR VILLAGE OF BERWYN, ADVISED

THAT SEVERA, MONTHS AGO, SKAR APFROACHED HEM WITH THE REQUEST L

OPERATE A FLOATING CRAP GAME IN THE VILLAGE OF BERWYN, WHICH

REQUEST WAS TURNED DOWN. HE STATES HE IS ACQUAINTED WITH SKAR,

NOD BELIEVE THAT JHE SAMARA SOUL MOTEL WAS OPERATING CAMELINE AT

BUMFULL'S

1962392

3171÷788

ARMED AND DANGEROUS. (U)

ST-102

_ SÓ JUL 5

1962

• END ACK AND HOLD:

NA DA HOLDING

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIPS Ra/

DATF4-23-84

OTHER

4

NW 45792 DocId:32310880 Page 2

---

