# docid-32296400

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records CoLection 40t.01 1992 799 U30 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10217-10176

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-862

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MI

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

12/02/1964

2

LCN, VARIOUS MEMBERS, FUNERAL, ROSPI, CARL,

GAMBLING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32296400

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel-

DATE: (11-1453917

FBI

Date:

12/2/64

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRIEL

(type in plain text or code)

AIR MALL

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, MILWAUKBE (92-262) P

LA

COSA NOSTRA,

aka

AR - CONSPIRACY

on 12/2/64 MI 623-C-TE advised as follows:

CARL ROSPI, 232 Hollywood, Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, died

recently and was buried early this week.

Funeral arrangements

handled by Rossi Funeral Home. Informant learned of this in

Rockford, Ill. where ROSPI was acquainted because he once hid

out there when wanted for murder years ago in Ohio. No one

from Rockford went to the funeral but Cleveland was probably

well represented as ROSPI was a La Cosa Nostra member of long

standing.

The only La Cosa Nostra family activity in Rockford about

which Informant learned on recent trip there consisted of a

dice game run by charLie VINcE and the usual jukebox and coin

machine operation of FRANK, BUSCENI.

The dice game is somewhere

on South Main Street and is referred to by a name such as

Sportsman's Club or South Side Businessman's Club.

PHIL CANELLA of Rockford ICN family is disappointed and dis-

satisfied with family affairs. Informant suggested contact

with CANELIA but said contact

should be very circumspect so

that CI will not be compromised.

No statement should be made

to CANELLA Indicating positive knowledge that

belongs to

LON.

PHIL PRIOLA of Rockford is going into hospital for operation

on ulcers.

Bureau (AM, RM)

2

No 1. 60548240

3

3

- down 25) 7837-1320) (94-326)

- Chicago (RM)

• DEC A

(12)17

Appipved: -

79D6916

fifogal Agent in Charge 0s

4_M

918 - 4E

DocId: 32296400

Page 2

---

