# docid-32296329

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY.: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10217-10105

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-144

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: TALBURTT, ORVILLE R.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/31/1962

'PAGES:

20

SUBJECTS :

CRIMINAL COMMISSION, TROPIANO, RALPH, PICCOLO,

FRANK, SABIA, VITO, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45839

DocId: 32296329

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FL•268 (Rev. 3-1-39)

REPORTING OFFICE

TITLE OF i"E

9H0S

FEDERAL BUREAU C " INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF RIGIN

DATE

RAVEN

NEH

MONK

12/31/62

REPORT MADE BY

SA ORVILLE R. TALBURTT

CRIMINAL, "COMMISSION, ETAL

CHARACTER OF CASE

HAVEN DIVISION

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/26/62 - 12/28/62

TYPED BY

Emat

ANTIPACKETEERING - CONSPIRACY

REFERENCE

Report

New York

of

SA JAMES

P. FLYNN,

6/29/62,

sirtel to

Bureau, 11/13/62.

at

Now York

ENCLOSURES TO EUREAU - 2

Two

copies

@1

letterhead memorandin concerning cbaracterization

informants.

APPROVED

COPIES M

SPECIAL

AGENT

IN CHARGE

E:

4

Bureau

(92-6054)

New

York

(92-2334)

New

Haven

12

92-282)

Q 1

92-67)

{1

DISSEMINATION

RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY..

REQUEST RECD

06-2 MAR 19.1565

cv..

t...

1537

+ GOPIES DESTROYED

TO MAR 29-1465

NW 45839 DocId: 32296329

• Page 2

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-60054=174

6 JAN Y 1963

t11-X3

REC- 22

NOTATIONS

---

## Page 3

NH 92-213

AUL INISTRATIVE

In connection with

has been

developed

VITO SARIA, &

highly confidential

source

which is designated

AS NH 413-C*.

In

connection with

RALPH TROPIANO,

serious

efforts have

been

made

to

de elop

a highly confidential

source in

the newly

constructed residence of WILLIAM PHILIP GRASSO,

the closest

associate with

TROPIANO in the operation of his

numberg

business.

There was & gang style killing in New Haven,

Conn.

on or about 11/24/62, and at the present time, TROPIANO

and GRASSO are considered the prime

suspects.

In view

the "beat"

on

TROPIANO and GRASSO by police

authorities

investigating this matter, efforts to develop &

bighly

confidential source in connection with TroPIaNd's operations

have

been

temporarily discontinued.

It has also been recently learned

I that because of the

above mentioned "heat" by police authoritios, the office

for the TROlIANO operation has been moved to

Bridgeport,

Conn., and for the time being, is

being operated by JOSEPH

"SHORTY" GANARDELLA, snother

trusted employee of TROPIANd.

In connection with FRANk lEvIs piccoLo,

being made to develops highly confidential source in the

alleged offlee

OI PICCOLO and DAVID IACOVETTI at Newtown,

Conn.

set tort in this report is information in connection

with their opening a crive-in restaurant to be known as the'

"Straw Hat"

which will possibly also be used for PICCOLO'S

gambling activities.

INFORMANTS

OTHER 4

NH T=1 is NH 3368-C-TE

NH T-2 IS NY 2151-C

NH T-3 IS report of SA JAMES P. FLYNN dated 6/29/62 at New

York City entitled, The Criminal "Commission" ETAl,

CONSPIRACY.

AR-

NH T4 is NY 3461-C-TE

NH T-S 18 PCI

NEI

1 420-C

B.

COVER PAGE

NW 45839 DocId: 32296329 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NH 92-332

1

NE T-E is Detective STEV. McKN, Hew Haven,

Conn. Police

Departuent.

NH I-T IS DeteCtive JOHN WIDHANN, New Haven, Conn. Police

Departnent.

NH T-8 18

New Haven PCI.

NH T-& I8 ANTHONY H. TESTO, NCI, New Haven Division.

NH T-10 1s Captain JOHN CArOL, Vice Squad, Bridgeport,

Conn.

Police Department.

NH T-11 is Detective

JOSEPH JASONIS, Corn. State Police,

westport,

Conn.

Barracks

NH T-12 IS N# 415-PC.

NH T-13 IS MM 802-C*.

NH T-14 IS NH 413-C*.

NH T-15 IS NH 398-C.

NH T-16 IS TrOOPEr EDWARD LEONARD, Conn. State Police,.

westport, Conn. Barracks.

NH T-17 Is RepOrt of SA JAMES P. FLYNN dated 12/19/62 at

New York.

LEAD

OTHER

. 4

NEW HAVEN

At New Haven,

Connecticut

No specific investigative

leads are being set out in this

report at the present time;

however, it is noted

that

individual investigative files are maintained on PICCOLO,

SABIA and TROPIANO,

the

and their activities

are reported in

individual files.

COVER PAGE

NW 45839 DocId: 32296329

Page 4

---

