# docid-32326797

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90058-10059

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

91-18345-17

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

CG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/30/1963

2

JOSEPH D-ARGENTO

RICHARD CAIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

TT

v9.1

DocId: 32326797

Page

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017/

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

SEP 3 0 1963

TELLIPE

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. DeLoach

Mr.

Evans-

Mr.

Gale.

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan_

Mr. Tavel

Vir. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes-

Miss Gandy-

URGENT

9-30-63

10-45

AM JKW

TO DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 191-3396/

C674-274

Offe

UNSUB PAREN ONE END PAREN., JOSEPH®D-ARGENTO DASH FUGITIVE, ETAL.,

THE FRANKLIN PARK BANK,

FRANKLIN PARK, ILLINOIS, SEPTEMBER TWENTY-

1019-

THREE LAST. BR., CG FIVE NINE ONE THREE DASH C, CRIMINAL INFORMANT.

RE CHICAGO TEL FIVE TWENTYSEVEN LAST.

THE DAY AFTER INSTANT BANK ROBBERY INFORMANT SUPPLIED THE FOLLOWING

INFORMATION.. MIKE LA JOY WAS THE NEPHEW OF FRANK DELEGGE IN WHOSE

GARAGE THE GETAWAY CAR WAS ABANDONED. HE FURTHER ADVISED THAT LA JOY

WAS DEEPLY IN DEBT AND ON HEAVY QUOTE JUICE UNQUOTE DUE TO HIS

COPY FILED

GAMBLING. INFORMANT ALSO ADVISED DURING THE PRECEDING WEEK OF INSTANTO

ROBBERY LA JOY WAS REGULARLY MEETING WITH FRANK DELEGGE AND TWO OTHER

INDIVIDUALS SUBSEQUENTLY IDENTIFIED FROM PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE INFORMANT 3

AS JOE D-ARGENTO AND LARRY FLETCHER, IN A RESTAURANT AT GRAND AND

MANNHEIM IN VICINITY OF BANK. INFORMANT DESCRIBED AUTOMOBILES DRIVEN

END PAGE ONE

REG. 24

filler to Co

351-13345

19.-1-63

EX 116

DAM: elie

6: OCT 8'1963, 5

"'23

58001131963

OCT 9

1953

DocId: 32326797 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

BY SUSPECTS AND OTHER BACKGROUND DATA. INFORMANT ALSO MAINTAINED.

CONTACT WITH LA JOY AFTER BANK ROBBERY KEEPING OFFICE ADVISED OF HIS

WHEREABOUTS, ALTERED OFFICE TO LA JOY-S ALIBI WHICH AFTER ARREST HE

ACTUALLY USED. INFORMANT ALSO STATED DELEGGE AND LA JOY ARE INVOLVED

IN INSTANT ROBBERY DUE TO FACT HE WAS AWARE THAT THE MEETINGS AT THE

RESTAURANT HAD TO DO WITH THEIR PLANNING A SCORE IN THE NEAR FUTURE

IN THAT AREA. INFORMANT ALSO DESCRIBED PREMISES WHERE LA JOY LIVED

AND ALSO DESCRIBED FIREARMS WHICH LA JOY OWNED AND WAS RECOVERED AT

TIME OF ARREST. THIS INFORMANT SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE

IDENTIFICATION OF LA JOY.

FIVE HUNDRED-DOLLAR PAYMENT IS REQUESTED FOR THE INFO LEADING TO

THE ARREST OF LA JOY IN CAPTIONED BANK ROBBERY.

END AND ACK PLS

WA

11-51 AM OK FBI WA JDS

TU DISC PLS

cc: M7r.

DocId: 32326797

Page

---

