# docid-32288696

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10199-10472

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

87-66742-291

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LENIHAN, JOHN P.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/03/1964

• PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

PAL, ASSOC, TRIAL DATE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: . 11/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

+.

v9.1

DocId: 32288696

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-2.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVL STIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASFIANGED

FELIX ANTHONY ALDERISIO, aka;

IRWIN S. WEINER, aka. Irving

Sidney Weiner; CHARLES WILLIAM

BRAL; SANTO TRAFFICANTE,

JR.,

aka; PAN AMERICAN BANK OF

MIAMI, FLORIDA-VICTIM

DATE

8/3/64

REPORT MADE BY

JOHN P. LENIHAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/12 - 7/30/64

TYPED BY

moh

ITAR-EXTORTION; ITSP; MF

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD

SECTION)

Title of this case is being marked changed since WEINER's Identi-

fication Record reflected arrest in 1936 under the name IRVING

SIDNEY WEINER. This name 1s being added as an alias.

-REFERENCES-

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

at Miami.

- Report of SA JOHN P. LENIHAN dated June 4, 1964,

Miami airtels to Bureau dated May 25, June 18

and July 7, 1964.

Denver letter to Director dated May 30, 1964.

Denver airtels to Director dated June 5 and June

19, 1964.

Miami letter to Los Angeles dated June 9, 1964 (IA).

and June

Chicago airtels to Director dated June 8, June 12.

22, 1964.

Milwaukee letter to Miami dated June 20, 1964 (10) •

Los Angeles airtel to Miami dated June 25, 1964 (I0)

at Denver.

Report of SA ARTHUR W. ENGSTROM dated June 24, 1964,

at New

York.

Report of SA WAYNE S. CURTIS dated June 10, 1964,

Fuses

PECIAL AGEN

CHARC

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

87-66742-291

3 - Bureau (87-66742)

1 - USA, Miami

(Attn: Departmental

Attorney ROBERT D.

- Chicago (87-19740) (Inroyt

1 - Denver

(87-19484

(Info)

CONTINED®

€ AUG 5 1964

MCT-16

REC-21

HX 109

DISSEMINATION RECORD

ENCY.

QUEST RESPC-IT

3 2a HAL

' FWD.

Nica

Rectres

U.S. EOVEANMENT PRINTING OFFICK

DocId: 32288696

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Release Finder the Foh F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 HoLey?

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM: 87-16480

Report of SA CLARK A. HULL dated July 13, 1964,

at Chicago.

-P-

-LEADS-

MIAMI

At Miami, Florida:

Departmental Attorney, ROBERT D. PELOQUIN, in order to determine

Departmen 1 1 at empe

Will attempt to arrange an early conference with

PERSUERY

if he desires additional investigation conducted since the trial

1s now' scheduled for October 20, 1964.

will discuss results of

investigation at Denver with Departmental Attorney, ROBERT D.

PELOQUIN, for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not JOHN

MARINO and ROCCO J. BONOMO, both of Denver, Colorado, should be

interviewed as to message reported to have been delivered to

HUGH BEST by MARINO and which related to an attempt to have

JAMES W. EGAN contact ALDERISIO's attorney at Denver and furnish

affidavit repudiating information previously furnished by him in

order to avoid any future difficulty.

CHICAGO, DENVER and LOS ANGELES:

Information copies

are furnished these offices who

have an interest in the case.

Los Angeles Office 1s requested to place data received

from LA 4410-C-TE Into a letterhead memorandum bringing up to

date all of the data he has about captioned case.

- INFORMANTS-

LA 4410-C-TE advised the following on June 25, 1964:

Acting on instructions to attempt to determine additional

information concerning captioned Miami case, he was able to

learn from Chicago source whom he declined to name, but charac

terized as persons who were in a possible position

to pick up

conversations from the hoodlum element, EGAN (JAMES WILLIAM EGAN

Jas reportedly not goine to appear or has been strajahtened out

in regard to ALDERISIO's matter under prosecution in Miami. He

was unable to obtain any additional information.

B*

Cover- Page .

DocId: 32288696 Page 3

---

