# docid-32312805

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10325-10054

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-99938-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/07/1968

3

CUBAN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HW 46011 DocId: 32312805

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ED-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

C

F. BI.

5/7/68

Transmit the following in

CONRIDENTIAL

(Type in plainere

odel

2/12/98

vet _

AIRTEL

CLASSIFIED BY 56685U/rc

(Priority)

DECLASSIFY ON. 25X

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

Рад.

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-1742) (P)

SUBJECT:

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

IS - CUBA

COINTEL

APPROPRIATE AGENET

sisten

AND

IELD OFFICES

ADVISE

TE SUL 2

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINE

HERETN IS WICLASSTETED

EXCEFT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Miami airtel to the Bureau dated 4/30/68.(4)

The Miami office

continues its attempts to further

infiltrate PODER CUBANO (PC) and the JULIO PEREZ PEREZ-

EVARISTO

GARCIA

SARMIENTO faction of the CUBAN NATIONALIST

MOVEMENT

(CNM) :

aX(4)

Classified By

Declassify on.

PCI, is continuing contact with

PC leaders

and

activities.

o further ascertain PC membership

Counter intell

ALFONSO REY

a source in Cuban matters, is in

contact

with PC leaders

infiltrate the PC.

(4) Is continuing his attempts to

M/815-S

datinues to frequent the Toyo Restaurant (SJ

a hangout

for Pe

readers,

and now advises that PC members

have

not come to the restaurant during the

past week and

their present whereabouts are unknown.

DX(4)

Dr. CARMELINA BONAFONTE advised that information

received from her-source

Chi lied by.

2650

FREDTO B. PEREIRA:

reflects

lora

Bureau

rempt frow

2 place is in 105,928

Met Declassification Indefini

97-4484 (miRa)

Miami

2 3

(1

- 105-15556) Cuban

101.28.1911

ain-soill (044510)

- 105-2481) (Cubnat)

IN1-180558(NORALES

let = 94261 Censen

Pe3:jhk

(5)

94 MAYZ 4 1968

C. AM

812

MAY '3

105

÷.

9993

NOT RECORDED

170 MAY 16 1968

ASCA

Approved:

M

Special Agent in Charg

PALATIN

CONFIDENTIAH

NW 46011 DocId: 32312805

Page 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

MM 105-1742

CONFADENTIAL

HECTOR CORNILLOT LIANO, PC leader, said he is leaving the

PC and the Miami area bècause of pressure put on him by

two

members of the Miami Police Departnent. PEREIRA reports

that PC activist, OMAR SOTO PUJOL, said he

'is leaving the

PC because he does not want any more problems. PEREIRA

reports that the PC'is breaking up, no longer meets and

discusses plans, no longer wants dynamite for future operations,

land claims the organization has no immediate plans.

(LU)

Under the counterintelligence program, copies of

a Bureau approved leaflet have been mailed to numerous Cuban

exilè businessmen in Miami.

Copies of a second and different

leaflet, approved by the Bureau, have also been mailed.

third approved leaflet will be mailed this week.

A fourth

leaflet will be submitted to the Bureau for approval, and if

approvea, this leaflet will also be mailed

to Cuban exile

businessmen in Miami. (U)

These leaflets have carried such titles as:

"CUBAN POWER --

A CASTRO FRONT?"

"CUBAN POWER -- CRIMINAL

ORGANIZATION?"

, and "CUBAN POWER - OR NARCOTICS POWER?" (4)

RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE continues to be inter-

viewed daily by the Miami office and has furnished a large

quantity of tremendously valuable information

Do and other anti-castro organizations. uncerning the

Concerning the PEREZ-GARCIA SARMIENTO faction of the

CNM,

there has been

no activity during the past week.

PEREZ

has remained in the West Palm Beach area, and the Customs

informant in Miami has had no opportunity to see him or to

Miami is considering interviewing the Customs

source, NANCY RODRIGUEZ, to see if she is amenable to contact

oy Bureau Agents an

ascertain her potential for being a

Bureau source: u:

FELIPE RIVERO DIAZ was interviewed on 4/24/68, in

connection with another matter.

He described PEREZ as being

a psychopath and unstable and stated PEREZ exerts a greac

amount of influence over GARCIA SARMIENTO. RIVERO feels

USCS

REVIEWED BY FOWJFK

I TAOK FORCE

ON

7/1/98 dal

- 2

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DEADAL

CONFIDENTIAL

HW 46011 DocId: 32312805

Page 3

---

