# docid-32312073

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/10/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10320-10390

RECORD SERIES : HQ ,

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-409763-215

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 01/30/1968

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

MARK LANE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

w 16028 Dockd: 32312073 page 1

71

---

## Page 2

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

DESA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.8

UNITED STATES GO. JRNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-409763)

SECRET

DATE: JAN 3 0 1968

SAC, NEW YORK (100-117844) (RUC)

MARK

ANE,

aka.,

IS - R (JONDIS)

(00: New Orleans)

CLASSIE ONE

JFK

Repulet dated 10/10/67 and New York

AIrtel

7/26/67, captioned "JONDIS"

, which set forth information

concerning a KGB document captioned "List Of Americar

Sociologists"

OF SA BENJAMIN P. MC MANUS

Reference is further made to the report

entitled "MARK LANE, SM -d dated 1/9/68, at New York

Enclosed for the Bureau are six copies of an LHM

setting forth informa ti on

10/3/67 and

Bulet to New York dated 10/10/67, are enclosed

for the New Orleans Division.

Sources set forth in LHM are as follows:

First Source: NY 5812-s*

(s)

Second Source:

3868-Si

Former Now PS

Conceal at recuest.

DISSEMI NATTON,

Enclosed LHM has been classified " TOP SECRET - NO FOREIGN

pursuant to instructions contained in Bulet

dated 10/10/67.

OTHER

1B,

It is believed that any interview with subject, with

regard to the information furnished by NY 5812-Sw ,]would koS

completely unproductive.

It is noted

subject was previously

aRcontacted by Agents of this Bureau on 4/29/64, at which time

3 1684b ject was not cooperative..

Rpubsequently gave his

1718240

REC 39

- Bureau (RM)

( Encl.

105'

(1 - 105-169820 JONDIS)

2

New Orleans (100-17689) (RM)

(Encl. 4"

804409743=215

New Fork (105-89741 JONDIS) (34

New

/York

FEB 2: 1968

PM:

AGENCY

67

ATE 101H

18/68 :

SECRET

SECTION

HOW FOR EST

UNREC COPY AND COPY OF ENCL FILED IN

FE8 1 5 1968.

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

5010-108

NW 46028 DocId: 32312073

Page 2

4

---

## Page 3

TDR SECRET

- NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATIS

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

JAN 3 0 1960

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Buf1le 100-409763

NYfile 100-117844

5-16-11

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD/KSE

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

Mark Lane

SECRET

Russia

that "Kram" was the KGB code name for Mark Lane, a

author of a recent book critieal of the Warren Commission

findings on the assassination of President Kennedy.

This

source stated that Boris Orekbov, & KGB officer assigned to

the Now York Residency had had two meetings with Lane and

had established a trusted relationship with him. The source

advised that Lane had made a trip to Europe and after his

return to the United States was not contacted.

"conditions of meetings" with Kram. ](S)

stated that the New York Residency of the KGB

had established

The above source aloo furnished a KGB document

entitled "List of American Sociologists" part of which

pertained to Mark Lane as follows:

"Mark Lane • Member of

New York State Assembly, 10th District of New York; attorney.

He is a young man

(age

30) and a Jew. He is sharply opposed

to the policies of Tammany Hall and favors a new leadership

group of freedom cedestsited the southern states, was

arrestod and sentenced to twe months imprisonment.

He has been

frood under bail.

He is an advocate of Ghandi's passive

resistance although he is not inclined to submissiveness".

The "New York World Telegram", a former New York City

Da1ly newspaper, issue of May 25, 1962, pageal2, Identifled

Mark Lane as a New York State Assemblyman, representing the

10th Assembly District, Now York City.

The "New

York Post"

• daily newspaper, New York City,

issue of May 25, 1962, page 4, reflected that Mark Lane woul

give up his seat

In the New York State Assembly after having

served in that capacity for fiftsen months.

He would not

seek a second term.

This document contains neither

GROUP 1

, recommendations nor conclusiong

Excluded from automatio

of the FBI.

It is the property

downgrading and

of the FBi and is loaned to your

declassification

agency; it and its contents are

not to be distributed outsid

- Kyour agency.

18812

ENCLOSURE,

:15

- No POS

BFGN DISSEMINATION

NW. 46028 DocId: 32312073

Page 3

---

