# docid-32301443

## Page 1

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10278-10278

HQ

92-6054-365

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, BS

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/12/1963

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LCN, ZARLENGA, GUIDO, RES, BUSS, SUR, MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32301443

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of. 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: - 11-1417 781v7 1-17-63)

Hotel

• AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

XX TELETYPE

Belmont:

Conrad

Evan

Gal

Rosen

Sullivan

-Tavel

.:Trotter

Tele. Roóm

Holmes

•Gandy

URGENT

7-12-63

7:21 PM

NCC

TO DIRECTOR AND SACS NEW YORK AND NEWARK

FROM SAC BOSTON:

: 122022

CLA CAUSA NOSTRA, AR, CONSPIRACY.

RE NEWARK TEL JULY 10 LAST.

GUIDO MENTIONED IN REAIRTEL IS GUIDO

ARTENCA, 102 TREMONT

STREET, FALL RIVER. MASS.

INDICES, BOSTON OFFICE, REFLECT THAT HE WAS. FORMER PRESIDENT

OF THE FALL RIVER STEVEDORING COMPANY AND ALLEGATION MADE THAT

- HE WAS A FRONT FOR PATRIARCA IN THIS VENTURE

ZARLENGA INTERVIEWED MAY 1961 AND ADVISED THAT HE MET

PATRIARCA ON ONE OCCASION WHEN HE WAS PURCHASING USED JUKE BOX

RECORDS AT PATRIARCA'S VENDING MACHINE COMPANY, PROVIDENCE,

RHODE ISLAND. DENIED PATRIARCA HAD INTEREST IN FALL RIVER

STEVEDORING CORP.

DURING INTERVIEW WITH REPRESENTATIVE OF ANOTHER GOVERN-

MENTAL AGENCY HE DENIED KNOWING PATRIARCA BUT DID LET SLIP THAT

HE WAS A FINE, REPUTABLE INDIVIDUAL.

BOSTON ON GAS 5, AS 0 RHE OUSANE DEMARS CAR WAS TALKERE

TO AN ACQUAINTANCE OF ANGIULO.

BS 837 * ADVISED ON JULY 2 LAST THAT PATRIARCA HAD MADE

A DEAL SEVERAL YEARS AGO WITH A FELLOW FROM NEW BEDFORD ON THE

CEMENT DOCKS. IT SHOULD BE NOTED THAT NEW BEDFORD DOES NOT HAVE

RELAYED TO NEW YORK

REC- 25

6054-365

JUL 22 1963

02 JUL 291963

If the intelligence contained in the above message is/to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32301443 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F Kennedy Assassination Records collection Act or

1992 (5 050 210% Tote)-

DATE 11-11-2017

Sospen

Erane

AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

• CABLEGRAM

G RADIO

XXTELETYPE

ToleN Soon

Cungo

PAGE TWO FROM SAC BOSTON 122022

DOCKS RECEIVING CEMENT PRODUCTS, HOWEVER, ZARLENGA WAS IN

CHARGE OF THE DOCKS RECEIVING IMPORTED CEMENT IN FALL RIVER

AND THAT NEW BEDFORD AND FALL RIVER ARE ADJACENT CITIES IN

MASSACHUSETTS.

PATRIARCA WAS CONTEMPLATING CONTACTING THE INDIVIDUAL

CONNECTED WITH THE CEMENT DOCKS "IF THEY WERE STILL OKAY WITH

HIM' IN ORDER TO ASSIST THE ELECTION OF TED GLEASON AT THE ILA

CONVENTION, MIAMI. NOT KNOWN BY THIS INFORMANT IF PATRIARCA

EVER DID CONTACT THIS INDIVIDUAL.

NEWARK OFFICE WILL IMMEDIATELY FURNISH BOSTON ALL INFORMATION

CONCERNING THE BACKGROUND OF NK 2366-C THAT MIGHT HELP EVALUATE

THE INFO. ALSO FURNISH INFORMATION CONCERNING. THE TFIS ANGLE

MENTIONED IN RETEL.

SOURCES HAVE BEEN ALERTED IN BOSTON AND NO INDICATION OF

ANY CONTEMPLATED MEETING. NO PHYSICAL SURVE ILLANCE BEING

CONDUCTED SO AS NOT TO COMPROMISE THE POSITION OF THE INFORMANT.

IT IS TO BE NOTED THAT THERE ARE HUNDREDS OF ISLANDS OFF

THE EAST COAST OF MASSACHUSETTS IN WHICH A CLAMBAKE COULD BE

HELD.

NEWARK WILL CONTACT THE INFORMANT UPON HIS RETURN AND

OBTAIN ALL INFORMATION CONCERNING THIS CLAMBAKE.

GROUP SUPERVISOR, IRS, PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND ADVISED

THIS DATE THAT THEY HAD RECEIVED WORD FROM THE FBI, WASHINGTON, DC

VENTO STRUTTA TR

122/98

LELEASE IN

RELEASE

PART

io mediano como ned unine anove message is to be di seminated outside ime bureau le uscese interan

orniased in order to protect the sure mos cryptographie eystems.

DocId: 32301443

Page 3

---

