# docid-32373164

## Page 1

Date: 02/17/98

Page: 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10300-10144

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

'. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection

Act of

1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

ORIGINATOR :

CIA

FROM

C/BSB

TO : MR. WINTERS

TITLE : INCIDENT REPORT - INFO FROM JOHN E. DONOVAN.

DATE

: 12/01/63

PAGES

SUBJECTS : DONOVAN, J.

OSWALD, L.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS

: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/21/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : OSW-SF: F2 1998.01.21.11:16:53:623092: PAGES 1 AND 2 OF

DOC- ARE ROUTING SLIPS; DUP OF 104-10132-10126

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

14 53217

DocId: 32373164

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CLAS

CATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

CONPIDENTIAL

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

- NAME AND ADDRESS

BATE

ANARALS

2

3

12-3-63

5

6

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

x

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Captain Donovan had been contacted at

Andrews A.F.B. by Jerry O'Leary, also a Marine

Reservist, on the afternoon of Sunday, I December

1963. Mr.

SRS, was verbally informed of

this contact by

at 0900 hours on

2 December 1963•

* O' ring in is Star Shelf wnter

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

DATE

ChaeL, Buildng security Branch

UNCLASSIFIED

Use previous editions

CONPIUENTIAL.

3Dec63

SECRET

(40)

* U.S: GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1961 O- 587282

HH 53217

DocId: 32373164

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASS

ATION TOR AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFTED

CUNFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

SECRET

ALS

Mr -

2

3

4

12/163

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

Kemarks:

Story like n

прир

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

26/02

63

FOLO HERE TO LENTO SENDER

DOM, NAME /ODERES AND PHONE NO.

Ch

Bulaung pecurity Branch

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

FORM, N°. 237

Use previous editions

DATE

L Dec.

SECRET

(40)

* US. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 3 1961 0--S87282

HH 53217

DocId: 32373164

Page

3

---

## Page 4

rame cluel

Buran 8.

Sec1947 -

is ust cent to

Subjet. It set unl

annette established tou

the Wash al Pares

1942-103 ad 1963-6

dist oul

1- Chis ran

Te addis fran

Subpet en

Belmon

I Read.

lu

121

1163

HH 53217

DocId: 32373164

Page

4

---

## Page 5

CONNDENTIAL

When Fo

đ in)

FRON

INCIDENT REPORT

16/96

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

DATE

TIME

1 December 1963

1030

NAME

John E. Donovan

2009 Belmont Rd. N. Wo

Washington 9, D. C.

INCIDENT

Telephone call

GRADE

N/A

Tole: 332-7717

_TIME 0937

OFFICE

N/A

_PLACE Washington, D. C.

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION: Donovan called to report that he knew and worked with

Lee Harvey Oswald for a nine month period while fulfilling his military

obligation in the Spring, Sunner and Fall of 1959. Donovan advised he may

possibly be of assistance in providing names and ete. of Oswalds intimate

acquaintances during that period. Subject further advised that he has not

discussed his knowledge of Oswald with the FBI or the Secret Service as of this

time.

Donovan is presently attending Georgetown University while teaching at

Ascension Academy• He may be contacted any evening after 6:00 P.Mo at the

above address.

Donovan related that he is a former FBI employee having worked

there from June 1953 to 1956. It is also noted that advance knowledge of this

call was received from N

• Agency employees,

who are both members of Capt. John E. Donovan's USMCR unit.

ACTION TAKEN:

Contacted

OS, who requested that this report

be prepared and submitted so that the lead may be turned

over to the FBI through official channels.

Document Number

1260-1033

for FOIA Review en

FEB. 1977

#REPORTING OFFICER

DISTRIBUTION:

ORIG: DD/SEC (PPS), DD/SEC, OR D/S

COPY: EAB/PD

FILE: BSB/PHYS. SD

1 cy C/SRS

we los Per

1798

CONFIDENTL

HH 53217 DocId:32373164 Page 5

---

