# docid-32294284

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

F.BI

124-10213-10060

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-388

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/05/1961

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LST, ASSOC AND REL, FISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

_ 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32294284

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

-4-41 (Rev. 6-2-61)

DECODED COPY

XX

Radio

• Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

Callahan

Conrad.

DeLoach.

Evans -

Malone

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram.

Gandy -

PID

URGENT

12-5-611

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC MIAMI

FROM SAC TAMPA

051857

SANTO

TRAFFICANTE, JR., AKA. AR. DAILY

TELETYPE. SPOT

PHYSICAL SURVEILLANCE SUBJECT RESIDENCE AND THAT OF

RELATIVES NEGATIVE FOR PRESENCE. OS TP 51-C MADE AVAILABLE

INFORMATION DECEMBER L THAT "SARITA" PROBABLY IDENTICAL

SARAH ANN TRAFFICANTE, WROTE LETTER TO MARY JO PANIELLO

AT TAMPA ADDRESS POSTMARKED SEPTEMBER 1960 WITH RETURN

ADDRESS LA SALLE APTS., MIAMI BEACH, SETTING OUT INFORMATION

INDICATING SHE WAS WITH HER MOTHER AND FATHER, THAT HER

FATHER HAD INVITED SOME FRIENDS OF HERS FOR DINNER, AND

THAT SHE WAS VISITING WITH A "COOKIE," IDENTITY UNKNOWN.

SARAH MENTIONED INDIVIDUALS NAMED JIM AND MILO BEING GUESTS

IN APARTMENT. MIAMI REINTERVIEW JEAN ZANE, APARTMENT 12,

LA SALLE APTS AND OBTAIN BACKGROUND INFORMATION DETERMINING

IF SHE KNOWS JAMES COSTA LONGO, JOE R. DIEZ OR ANY INDIVI-

DUALS FROM TAMPA WHO TRAVEL BETWEEN TAMPA AND MIAMI BESIDES

SAM MONDELLO. ENDEAVOR OBTAIN INFORMATION AS TO WHERE

THEY STAY IN MIAMI. A ERT AUTHORITIES AND SOURCES AT HORSE

TRACKS FOR SUBJECTS PRESENCE THERE.

REG. 1

RECEIVED:

4:17 PM VLH

92-2781-388

WE DEC 6 1968

zer,

GODEC11 1961

§ the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems

DocId: 32294284 Page 2

---

