# docid-32315225

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10340-10017

RECORD SERIES: MM

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-139-II-75

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HO

TITLE :

DATE: 08/20/1964

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS:

ANGELO BRUNO (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

" RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32315225

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Mote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-143 (Rev. 4-2-63)

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

3010-106

MAY 1902 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

Director, FBI

(Bufile 92-2717

JUNE

)DATE:

August 20, 1964

SAC, Miami (92-139 Sub II)

SUBJECT:

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

•RE :

Title ANGELO BRUNO, aka

Character of Case ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

Miami

Symbol Number

MM 837-C%

Type of Surveillance:

(Technical-or

Microphone)

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

ANGELO BRUNO

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

Winter residence of CHARLES I. COSTELLO, 12468 North Bayshore

Drive, North Miami, Florida

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Central Technical Plant - Miami Office

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Initial Authorization - 7/27/62

Initial Installation - 8/31/62

5: Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places) :

None in Miani area

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

a. Is a trunk line utilized?

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

Bureau

Miami

_stered Mali

"anc ame

(2)

c. Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone?

Searched

Indered

Serialized

tro

Filed au

92-139 Sub II-75

DocId: 32315225 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John!

F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

do Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One 404B MATE in Florida room

8. Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

NA

9. Specific. examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item Involved:. (Add insert pages)

(See attached pages)

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No

11. Number of live informants (in fleld division) who cover same subject:

None

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No

13.

Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a Rental costs for plant premises: None, monitored at Miami Central

Technical Plant

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

Four

- 2

DocId: 32315225 Page 3

---

