# docid-32292055

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SESTET

TOENITAL

NY 105-49813

SUCCINCT SUNMARY

CIA advised on 4/7/61,

JONES and his wife, LENNA

SCHWEITZER JONES, were members of a group who desired to

go to Cuba from Mexico.:

he group had setters Iron

air Play For Cuba Committee (FPCC) group from New YOr'}

and a letter of recommendation from a Coordinator öf the

July 26th Movement at Chicago.&

(U)

2

on 6/21/61, CIA advised JONES

and

his wife left

Mexico City for Havana, Cuba on 4/20/01.

(u)

CSDE 308-s advised on 5/26/61, that JONES, who

was a graduate student at the University of Michigan was

identified as Co-Chairman of an organization formed in

December, 1960 at the University of Michigan under the name

of Committee for Improved. Cuban-American Relations.

JONES

claimed to have visited Cuba in 1960. The purpose of the

organization was announced to use the organization to arrange

a Christmas Tour To Cuba for students at the school.

On 4/19/61, JONES renewed his United States Passport

at Mexico D.F.

The passport was not valid for travel to

Investigation

has shown he and wife travelled to Cuba

without a passport.

On 9/4/63, JONES was in Moscow, Russia.

Three

United States citizens conversed with JONES during the evening

of 9/4/63. JONES advised he was residing in Cuba and was

sympathetic to Communism and said he supported CASTRO, anc

his form of government.

JONES indicated he does not have a

United States passport for travel to Cuba.

JONES explained to

Dr. PAUL W. MC DANIEL, Director, Division of Research, AEC,

Germantown, Maryland,

that he was not a member of the Communist

Party but was fully sympathetic with aims and goals of the

Communist movement.

CONRIDENTAL

SEX

DocId: 32292055 Page 1

---

