# docid-32285835

## Page 1

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):"

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10194-10111

RECORD SERIES : HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-1659

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/10/1965

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

SGI, TESUR, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST RE VIEW. :

05/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32285835

Page 1

38

---

## Page 2

Reheased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

/PATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rer, 10-29-63)

FBI.

Date:

5/10/65

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED--

-- HEREIN IS UINULASSIFIED

TO

DATE 4. 24-34 BY SPORTE/COL

: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM : SAC, CHICAGO (92-350 SUB E)

94

JUNE

SUBJECT: SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka

CE 6186-09 was reactivated on 57/65.

The

Armory Lounge, the location of the source, was closed

until the 26th, which is a normal procedure each year,

it being customary for DORIS FANELLI to give a two

week vacation at that time to her employees.

following information was reviewed on the day following

its recording and pertinent information furnished

the Bureau in teletype form.

It is anticipated that

this source will be reviewed and furnish the Bureau

in airtel form on a daily basis in the future. (u)

On the 26th, BUTCH BLASI opened the restaurant

with DORIS FANELLI at

which time they discussed operations

of the restaurant and of the fact that a new waitress

was to be hired who formerly worked at Pucci's Restaurant.•

One item of pertinence was a remark by DORIS FANELLI

to theeffect that prior to her taking over the Armory

Lounge, she was never familiar with most of "Sam's

(GIANCANA) friends such as FIFI (BUCCIERI) and the

During the afternoon on this date, SAM

GIANCANA was present and met with one MIKE (LNU) who is

believed to be possibly identical to one MIKE "The Brew"

MORENO.

MORENO is known to have been influential in

Stone Park - Northlake and an associate of ROCCO PRANNO'S

in the operation of D'Or's Lounge.

Information available

- Bureau

Chicago

REG- 31

12=56+

1659

2 MAY L4 1965

• Wick

-

MER: dkc

(4)

Approved:

6

MAY

DocId: 32285835

Special Agent in Charge

261903

Page

Sent

DONG

Per

CREA

TIN.

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-350 SUB E

on the 29th, DORIS FANELLI Complained to

BUTCH BLASI that a lot of her customers were going

out to "Orries" because "he told them all to go

out there."

It is assumed he is SAM GIANCANA.

In this regard, CG 6792-PC furnished information to

the effect that during the period that the Armory Lounge

was closed, SAM GIANCANA was utilizing the bar called

Orries as a hangout with his associates. (U)

BUTCH BLASI was then noted to place a

phone call to VINCE SOLANO; however, nothing of

pertinence was gleaned from this phone call. It is

noted that sOLANo is a close associate and

chauffeur

for Chicago Top Hoodlum ROSS PRIO. (U)

During the afternoon, GIANCANA was in and

was complaining about income taxes claiming that the

Government is checking his back to 1961.

He continued

"You got to add it all up real careful because you

got to figure they're always around. It used to be

you could go someplace and not figure they knew it,

but now the (obscene) are all around you. I always

check it all up.

I figured it in years to come I could

accumulate so much money, and in four or five years

(did not complete sentence).

This year I made

less and

paid

more. It used to be you made 50 and

keep it. "

Later CHUCK ENGLISH arrived and in a

conversation with an unknown individual began a

lengthy dissertation on the question of immunity. (v

ENGLISH:

I been arguing with my

son-in-law and a couple other

lawyers.

If this law is

passed what happens is there

is no more fifth amendment.

I don't care what no lawyer

tells me. I take the fifth

amendment no matter how much

immunity they give me.

Because taking the fifth

amendment you ain't gonna get

in no trouble. Open your

mouth and you don't know what

-6 -

DocId: 32285835 Page 3

---

