# docid-32305957

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/23/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10289-10087

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-4225-48, 49, 50

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, AL

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/10/1959

5

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

JFC, MIGLIORE, ANIELLO, AUTOMOBILE ACCIDENT,

APPLACHIN, NY, ADMIN, INSTR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Consulted

Redact

07/17/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS:

REFERRED TO DOJ, INC A/T, 2 MEMO

Doc Id: 32305957

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

TATUSC 2107 dote).

• DATE.:

11-14-2017

Mr. Tolson.

ZSTANDARD FORM NO. 64

Mr. Belmont

Mr. DeLoach

PiEce Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT®

Mr. Timm

TO

: Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation

DATE!

august

Mr955 Hor

Mr.

??!"Sullivan

Tele. Woom

Mr. Holloman

: Malcolm R. Wilkey, Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

MAW: PW: sIlmiss Gandy

123-51-471

SUBJECT: United States Ve Bonanno, et al.

requested cer at no ear nathe sub ete or tra mavid-

ual allegedly at the Apalachin meeting.

Migliore is supposed to have loaned his car on November I4,

1957 to Steve Breese, now deceased.

According to Migliore, Breese

was driving the car when it was involved in an accident in Binghamton,

New York, on November 14. It is, in fact, believed that joe taratre.

was actually driving the car that was involved

2280 know as Jolthe car story has been used by Wigllore in denying

In the accident.

his own presence in the area on that day. Among the persons in the

other car involved in the accident, was Thomas falenick of the Water-

proofing Products Company, Binghamton, New Yorke

= Mr. Palenick is

alleged to have been shown a drivers license and registration card

issued to Neil Migliore.

Migliore is said to have indicated that insurance releases

were furnished by the occupants of his car to the Boston Insurance

Company, Boston, Massachusetts.

The releases are said to have been

signed by Americo Migliore, Neil Migliore, and Peter Valente.

•Carl Lunstedt, Claims Supervisor of the Boston Insurance

Company, has adopted a somewhat uncooperative attitude because, he

says, he has been questioned by so many people concerning the matter,

including members of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

9-

1959%

hit ack.

go 11-509

the results thereof. Likewise if the Bureau has had occasion to

interview Palenick or has conducted any other collateral interviews

regarding the above described accident we should also like to know

the results of those interviews.

Additional information has also been requested concerning

Anthony Riela, one of the defendants in the case.

42125-50

REC- 34 -

1A AUG 5 1959

Ce to Staffell

DocId: 32305957 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

- DATE: 11-11-2017

- 2 =

In a Federal Bureau of Investigation memorandum dated June 25,

1959, Mrs. Myrtle Molourty, manager, Airport Motel, Bay Avenue, Port

Newark, New Jersey, is reported to have told the interviewer that her

employer, Riela, went to Apalachin, New York, on November 14, 1957e

with Frank 21to

Mrs. Metourty is now stated to have denied telling anyone

that Riela told her he drove or went up to Apalachin with Zito.

In view of this it would be appreciated if we can be fur

nished with ary further information that may be available concerning

the interview or the fact that Riela and Zito went to Apalachin together.

An attempt is also being made to locate original registration

cards for Frank Zito and Jamee/Colletti at the Airport Motel during

November, 1957. If any such documents

Bureau it would be appreciated if they could be forwarded to us.

DocId: 32305957

Page 3

---

