# docid-32288793

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System •

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10200-10069

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-238

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/14/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45679

DocId: 32288793

164

Page 1

---

## Page 2

EDERAL BUREAU OF IRVESTIGATIONN

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUN1 41961

TYPI

Mr. Tolson...

Mr. Belmont_

Mr. Mohr.--

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Coprad:

Mr. Del

Mr. Evadst

Mr.

Malone

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel.-

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room-

Mr. Ingram..

Miss Gandy.

URGENT 6=14-61

8-41

PM CLM

DIRECTOR, FBI /92-3182/

FROM

SAC, CHICAGO /92-373/ 3P

GUS

ALEX, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. MAIL COVER ON MATLING ADDRESS OF

ALEX, EVERGREEN PARK, ILLO, DISCLOSED THAT ALEX RECEIVED MAIL EARLY

PART OF JUNE FROM AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK AND TRUST CO., CHICAGO.

IT IS TO BE NOTED THAT ALEX HAS CHECKING ACCOUNT AT THIS BANK• PCI

ADVISED HE OBSERVED A FEMALE ENTER THE BUILDING AT

OTHER 4

ONE ONE FIVE ZERO LAKE SHORE DRIVE YESTERDAY AND PROCEED TO THE

APARTMENT OF GUS ALEX. HE STATED THAT THIS WOMAN HAS BEEN OBSERVED

IN THE PAST VISITING ALEX AT HIS RESIDENCE BUT DID NOT KNOW HER IDENTITY.

HE DESCRIBED HER AS A GOOD LOOKING BLONDE WOMAN, AGE ABOUT. TWENTY

FIVE: DR. MAURICE PO GOLDMAN, A DENTIST, INTERVIEWED AT HIS OFFICE,

AT WHICH TIME HE ADVISED HE HAS BEEN PRACTICING DENISTRY AT THE SAME

ADDRESS SINCE ABOUT NINETEEN THIRTY TWO AND THAT GUS ALEX WAS A FORMER

PATIENT OF HIS. HE HAS NOT WORKED ON ALEX, HOWEVER, FOR THE PAST

FIFTEEN YEARS. HE SAID THAT TO THE BEST OF HIS RECOLLECTION, ALEX

12-33/802-0

CAME TO HIS OFFICE IN THE LATE NINETEEN

HE'S OR EARLY NINETER

FORTIES AS A PATIENT AND FROM CONVERSATIONS WITH

ALEX HE. GAINE

7 JUN 19 196

IMPRESSION THAT ALEX WAS CONNECTED WITH SOME UNION DURING THE PERIOD

ALEX WAS HIS, PATIENT. DR. GOLDMAN STATED: THAT ALTHOUGH ALEX

END PAGE ONE 235

50 JUN 21 1968

NW 45679 DocId: 32288793 Page 2

---

