# docid-32317492

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/3/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10353-10229

RECORD SERIES: LA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-113C-208

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :NU 45945 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 01/08/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:

JOHN ROSELLI (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/04/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45945

DocId: 32317492

Page 1

---

## Page 2

i?.

LA 92-113

IA 4396-0* has furnished information that

ROSSELLI has been in contact with a girl belleved to be

SHARON ANN JOHNSON, on several occasions

during the past

four or five days.

According to this informant, this

girl planned to spend the past week end in Las Vegas, Nevada

and to return to Los Angeles on Sunday evening 1/6/63.

It has been learned that SHARON ANN JOHNSON has

service with

call Nina, lno., a telephone answering service.

Check of her calls beginning 11/1/62 reveals several calls

from MAURICE FRIEDAN, but none from ROSSELLI. However,

she received

a number

of calls from a man who would refuse

to leave his name or telephone number and these could well

be calls from ROSSELLI,

On 1/4/63, SHARON's brother,

left a message for her to call him

when she returned

Las Vegas.

LA 4268-C advised ROSSELLI was at the Friar's

Club in Beverly Hills on the afternoon of Friday, 1/4/63

and was with IRVING J: LEFF, part-owner of the New Frontier

Hotel, Las Vegas.

This informant also observed ROSSELLI at the

Friar!s

Club on the afternoon of 1/7/63 playing cards.

Informant was at the club from about 4:15 p.m. until

5:55 p.m.

During this time he observed MOE

Investigator for the Department of Motor Vehicles,

Angeles, California, approach ROSSELLI and hand ROSSELLI

a note which ROSSELLI took andiput into his pocket.

As

he handed the note to ROSSELLI, GENSER said, "Here's that

thing you wanted.

Examination of ROSSELLI's bank account in

December, 1962 revealed that on 11/24/62 he issued a check

for $100

"S. DAVISPayable to

"Friar'g

Charity Foundation", the name

was written on the face of the check.

The back

of the check bore the

endorsements of "M. GERSER or GENSER"

and

"I. ROSELLI.

Neither S. DAVIS. Or GENSER are known

to be officers of the Frair's Club.

-2-

NW 45945 DocId: 32317492

Page 2

---

