# docid-32307484

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10292-10187

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-431

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI.

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/04/1961

1

SGI, GAL, KRUSE, LESLIE, LAPORTE, FRANK, BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

GLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

ocId: 32307484

Page 1

203

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

Kerredy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 444 03C 2.

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERPI, BURLAU OF ANGITDATION

U.S. DEFARTMENT UN JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT 4 1961

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson

Mr.

Belmont..

Mi. Mahr -

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

TURTY

Mr.

M..

DEFERRED

10-04-61

8-55 PM SM

TO DÍRECTOR, FBI 192-3173/

Teli. i m

Mr. jogram.

Migs Gandy

FROM SAC, SHICAGO 182-3491

1P

dese

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKAO, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE

DASH C ADVISED THAT GIANCANA HAD ONE EIGHTH SHARE OF PROCEEDS OF J AND J

PICNIC GROVE GAMBLING ESTABLISHMENT, WILL COUNTY. OTHER SHARE HOLDERS

WERE LESLIE KRUSE, GUS ALEX, FRANK LAPORTE, ET AL. FACT THAT KRUSE AND

OTHERS ARE REPRESENTATIVES OF GIANCANA INDICATES THAT GIANCANA PROBABLY

DREW FAR GREATER SHARE THAN ONE EIGHTH OUT OF THIS OPERATION. NOTED

THAT PAST TENSE USED IN DESCRIBING THIS OPERATION IN

THAT THIS INFORMANT

ADVISED THE J AND J, DUE TO NEWSPAPER PUBLICITY AND LOCAL HEAT, HAS

CLOSED DOWN PERMANENTLY AND IS LOOKING FOR A NEW BASE OF OPERATIONS•

INFORMANT WILL ADVISE WHEN NEW LOCATION IS ASCERTAINED. GARY, INDIANA,

INFORMANT ADVISED THAT RECENTLY HE ENTERED THE JUKE BOX FIELD THAT

AREA IN COMPETITION WITH WORLD WIDE DISTRIBUTORS, CHICAGO, AND TOOKY

ELEVEN STOPS ORIGINALLY HELD BY WORLD WIDE. REPRESENTATIVE OF WORLD WIDE

CONTACTED INFORMANT, ADVISED HIM STOPS WOULD HAVE TO BE GIVEN BACK,

ADVISED INFORMANT HE HAD QUOTE CLOUT UNQUOTE FROM CHICAGO, NAMELY,

MOONEY GIANCANA. INFORMANT REFUSED TO RELINQUISH STOPS, AND WAS TOLD

THAT ANTHONY PINELLI, LOS ANGELES

FORMERLY FROM

GARY,

MANTISIN

WAS COMING TO GARY IN NEAR FL

BRE RICARDING THIS./ IN VIEW TOE POSSIBLE

ITAR VIOLATION ON PART OF PINELLI AND OTHERS, CHICAGO FOLLOWING THIS

OCT 5

1961

MATTER CLOSELY

Y96 ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

- ALL INFORMATION-CONTAINED

END AND ACK PLS

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DocId: 3207001 PMaRK FBI A WA BM

DATE 4-20-94 BYSPSRIG COL

---

