# docid-32199824

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10274-10059

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-1368

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CREGAR, W. O.

TO:

WANNALL, W. R.

TITLE:

DATE: 02/04/1976

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: CC, REQ, INTV, HOWE, RAYMOND B.

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

09/03/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (3)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32199824 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE? 11-14-2017

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

10.019

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN.

REG. NO. 27

LINITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. W. R. Wannall

4. 0. crogar doc/8

SENSTUDY 75

DATE:

2/4/76

NO TICKLERS PREPARED

Assoc. Dir.

• DeR Ther

Pep.

Asstal

Aciplin.

Comp. Syst._

Ext. Affairs _

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspectio

Intell.k

Laboratory

Plon. & Eval.

Spoc. Iny: _

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. -.:

Director Sec'y _

This informative memorandum is to bring to

notice unusual aspects relating to anticipated Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence Activities (SSC)

Interview of SA Raymond B. Howe, Kansas City Office.

Legal Counsel to Mr. J. B. Adams memorandum,

1/29/76, advised that Paul Wallach, SSC Staff Member,

requested SA Howe be made available for Staff interview

concerning his knowledge of the President Kennedy

assassination.

Personnel file of Howe reveals he has been

in the Kansas City Office since 2/6/64; prior offices

Seattle and Los Angeles; no indication ever in Dallas

Office or participated in the investigation of the

Kennedy

assassination. According to Supervisor P. V.

Daly, Legal Counsel Division, to whom Wallach made the

request, Daly has already discussed with Wallach the

possibility that Wallach may have confused Raymond B.

Howe with SA Kenneth Howe, who is currently assigned

at San Diego but who was a Supervisor in Dallas at the

time of the assassination. Wallach indicated he is

aware these are two separate individuals and it is the

Raymond Howe in Kansas City he desires to interview but -

Wallach would not indicate any further REcto the specific

information he expects Raymond Howe to have.

Latest serial in Raymond Howe's personnelso FEB 17 1976

file is anS. R. Burns to Mr. Walsh memorandum, 12/23/7

by which it was recommended and approved that Howe be

62-116395

1 - 67-198854 (Personnel File SA Raymond B. Howe)

SFP : 1hb

DocId: 32199824 Fate 2

CONTINUED - OVER

-1368

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re:

Senstudy 75

62-116395

accepted in the Alcoholic Rehabilitation Program.

In view of the very recent (December, 1975) hospitalization

of Howe for purpose of curing his alcoholism, rest and

detoxification, it was believed, and Supervisor Daly

concurred, that we "touch base"

with the SAC in Kansas City

to alert him of the SSC interest in interviewing Howe

and obtain from him his on-the-scene evaluation as to

whether or not SSC interview of Howe at this time might

have some adverse effects on Howe who, it is noted, is

on duty.

On 2/3/76, Supervisor S. F. Phillips of the

Senstudy 75 Project

telephonically brought the current

matter to the attention of SAC Bill Williams, Kansas City,

who advised that he anticipated no problem whatsoever

should the SSC interview Howe.

Williams also wondered

why the SSC would choose Howe who, to the best information

• available, did not participate in the Kennedy assassi

• nation investigation.

The only conjecture which

Williams had, and which Daly and Phillips likewise have,

is that Howe's name may have come up in connection with

the SSC interest in SA James P. Hosty, Jr', who did

participate in the assassination investigation and who

has for some time also been assigned to Kansas City.

"Williams said that he has talked with Howe on a number of

occasions since the latter's release from the hospital

i on 12/6/75 and it appears that Howe is making excellent

progress and that an interview of him should not adversely

affect him.

Williams will alert Howe to the SSC interest

to insure that, if Howe is contacted directly by the SSC,

Howe will immediately advise Williams and in turn the

Bureau will be advised.

CONTINUED - OVER

- 2 -

DocId: 32199824 Page 3

---

