# docid-32310715

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Motel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

-

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10307-10019

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-623

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

02/10/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ASSOC, B/F INT, DUNES HOTEL, LV, NV, CRIM ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

DocId: 32310715

Page 1

293

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-41 (Rev. 672-61)

Radio

Tolson

Belmont®

Mohi -

Callahan,

DECODED COPY

Del at

Evans

Malone

-Rosen .

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Tele. Room

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE4-20-94 BISPSRTE/ COC

xx Teletype

Ingram

Gandy

DEBERRED 2-10-62

1:43 PM

CST

EAH

TO DIRECTOR

I callio

FROM SAC, CHICAGO

101511

ANTRACKETEERING

TOP HOODLUM

SAMUEL M. OGIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMNARY.

/CG 6443-0

ADVISED INSTANT THAT LESLIE KRUSE, CHICAGO TH, HAD TO MAKE

AN EMERGENCY TRIP TO MIAMI AND PALM BEACH THIS DATE TO

"SELL HIS HOME IN LAKE WORTH, FLORIDA,." CG 6486-C% ADVISED

THAT GIANCANA, ON FEBRUARY & LAST DURING EARLY MORNING, WAS

IN CONFERENCE WITH ONE "POTSY," BELIEVED TO BE MORRIS PEARL,

CHICAGO GAMBLER, AND MUCH OF DISCUSSION CONCERNED LAS VEGAS.

PERAL STATED HE HAD RECENTLY BEEN IN CONTACT WITH SID WYMAN,

OF THE DUNES HOTEL, LAS VEGAS, WHO ADVISED PEARL THAT HE,

I WYMAN, OWNS 50% OF THE DUNES.

OFFERED SOME POINTS TO PEARL, WHO

IN TURN OFFERED TO CUT IN GIANCANA ON THE DEAL IF HE WAS

INTERESTED. GIANCANA EVINCED AN INTEREST, WHEREUPON PEARL

STATED HE WOULD LOOK INTO THIS FURTHER. DISCUSSION TOUCHED

ON JUSTICE DEPARTMENT INVESTIGATION NOW BEING CONDUCTED ON

ORGANIZED CRIME. PEARL STATED "I REMEMBER YOU TELLING ME

BEFORE KENNEDY CAME IN THAT THERE WAS GONNA BE FIREWORKS,

BUT I NEVER EXPECTED NOTHING LIKE THIS." GIANCANA STATED

"I JUST GOT BACK THE OTHER DAY, AND WE GOT EVERYBODY TAGGED

OUR. THEY (GOVERNMENT) ARE INVESTIGATING ONLY CERTAIN

INDIVIDUALS, IN CERTAIN CITIES IN CERTAIN AREAS. " PEARL ASKED

"YOU MEAN OUTFIT? TO WHICH GIANCANA REPLIED IN AFFIRMATIVE.

INTERPER-TATION

OF: ABOVE WOULD CONCEIVEABLY BE THAT GIANCANA

69?

REG- 72

25 FEB 15 1962

801-X3

57 FER 2 1 1962

MR. BELMONT FOR THE DIRECTOR

9

ce-1-64,

e intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

phrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32310715 Page 2

---

