# docid-32290314

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10205-10090

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-2657

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

04/12/1977

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, ASSOC, DEPORTATION, MX, NEG

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v91

DocId: 32290314

117

Page 1

---

## Page 2

seased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992. (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO. 10

FION

ICER! 101.11.8

UNITED

STATES GOV

‹ NMENT

Memorandum

SECRE

ECRE

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

DATE: 4-12-7

STE

SIDE

FROM

CLASA

IFICATION

EGAT, MEXICO CITY (92-13) (RUG 7F

IT APPRO?

ME AGENCIES

ACT!

TARLOTEF

E7C3S

SUBJECT: SAMUEL M

GIANCANA,

akall INFoRMAT

CLASSINED ADVISA

TIRACKETEERING URGEN

HEREIN IS

VOT

EXCEPT YPER

E SHOWN

DATE

Bott

OTHERWISE

Re

Chicago

12-17-76.

101258455033918

a bureau airtel,

(Y)

On 1415

Captioned matter has been reviewed at Mexico

Mexico City notes Mexico City files indicate

PUNING

verification of Chicago observation that many fruitless

efforts were made to have subject expelled from Mexico.

According to referenced Chicago airter, Chicago source

indicated

subject's attorney was able to provide certain

considerations to former Minister of Gobernacion and

former President of Mexico LUIS ECHEVERRIA,

'which

subject to remain in Mexico from 1966 to 1974.

Gui

Chicago has indicated that Under-Secretary of

Gobernacion FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS might have

Or ROV

information concerning who wanted subject expelled from

Mexico in 1974.

Chicago further noted that because of

GUTIERREZ'

possible departure from the Government of Mexico

because of the December, 1976, change in administration,

the moment might be

the above question.

fious to approach him regarding

front

The administration did change in December, 1976,

and

former President ECHEVERRIA was succeeded by President JOSE

LOPEZ PORTILLO.

FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS

position as Under-Secretary of Gobernacion

repained in his

227

If an

accord did

exist between subject and the.

it was apparently at the highest level

HERE

EXCRE

OTHERW

Classi

Deglassiry

•Government of Mexico,

The basis for Chicago's request, the expected departure of

GUTIERREZ

BARRIOS

his Mexican Government position, has

not taken place

Bureau

108

REC-16

92-3171-2651

(1 - Foreign

Liaison

Unit)

€2

Chicago,

92÷349)

25

1 - Mexico City

417182

EX-103

3 APR X8 19777

JHG; JJF : 1mg

by

(6)

Declassi

SPSR8g Bey

DADR

_CLASSIFIED BY?

EXEMPT FROM GDS, CATEGOT

5010-110

Buy U.S. Savin

56 MAY

9 1077

DEFINITE VISIT

DocId: 32290314

Page 2

---

## Page 3

-Teased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

SECRET

•Legat, Mexico City is of the opinion that

conditions conducive to a direct approach to GUTIERREZ

relative to this matter have not been obtained.

Due

to the sensitive nature of circumstances relating to

this case, it is not wise to attempt an indirect approach

to GUTIERREZ through other contacts as suggested by Chicago

In addition, the results of previous discussions

with GUTIERREZ BARRIOS on this subject have been reported to

the Bureau and Chicago.

In Mexico. City letter dated 11-5-74,

GUTIERREZ BARRIOS is quoted as stating that deportation

action was taken against subject because the subject was

illegally in Mexico and that this action was not based on

any activities of a criminal nature which might be considered

in violation of Mexican law. At one point, GUTIERREL BARRIOS

explained the deportation by saying simply

that the subject's

papers were not in order.

Since GUTIERREZ BARRIOS retains

a high position in the Mexican Government and has previously

furnished an account of the reasons supporting the deportation

action against subject, it is doubtful that he would furnish

any substantially different information at this

date renta

time to this

office or any other Embassy representative.

2

spades

SECRET

DocId:32290314 Page 3

---

