# docid-32330536

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90090-10199

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 174-6515-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

MM

TITLE:

DATE: 07/29/1977

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ROLANDO MASFERRER

ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32330536

10

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNDER

UA

1

- Mr. W. F. Moran

AIRILL

7/29/77

To: SAG, Miant (174-926)

Fron: Director, FBI (174-6515)

UNSUB; BOMBING OF CAR AT 6775 S. No 27ch STREET,

MIAMI,

FLORIDA, 10/31/75,

ROLANDO MASTERRET ROJAS DECEASED) * VICTIN

ліанофия

DECLASSIFIED BY SEMAC/EM

Reurtet 7/8/77.

DN 5 - 18-94

(TEK)

Bureau authority granted for your office to send a

letter: to Mrs. Lucile Montero Masferrer in accordance with

the outline set forth in referenced letter.

7181

(5)

NOTE:

BY 281) PAUl BAlOnS

II, 1-2.4.2

REASON

DATE

REVI

On October 31, 1975, Rolando Masferrer Rojas was

killed when a bomb exploded in his car at Miami, Florida.

No FBI investigation was instituted inasmuch as the bombing

did not fall within our investigative jurisdiction,

In March

1976, Manuel De Armas, à Cuban exile who

was then living in Miami

and being utilized as an FBI informant,

defected to Cuba.

While in Cuba,

he made numerous releases to

the press at the request of the Cuban Government.

In one such

interview, which was televised in Havana, he claimed that the

explosives used to kill Masferrer were furnished to him by

SA Robert Mills of the Miami Office.

De Armas claimed that he

turned these explosives over to unnamed members of an anti-

castro organization known as Abdala and that members

Assoc. Dir.

organization used the explosives to kill Masterrer

Dep. AD Adm.-

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

REC.70

CONTINUED-OVER

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Affairs

Fin. 8 Per

"Ident

Inspection

Intell..

Laboratory

MAILED 17

5T:26

8O AUG 10 1977

Legal Coun.

JUL 29

Plan. & Eval..

Rec. Mgnt.

- WatChiev

FinS

AROSE SPAIN

NO CONNEINED

SOSEE TEXCEPT

HEBNISPA Son | DoIS

Spec. Inv.

Training

202

Telephone Rm.

TELETYPE UNIT E

TAL

GPO: 1976 0 - 307-526

PERS REC. UNIT

DocId: 32330536

Page 2

---

