# docid-32306603

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992(17 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10290-10243

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-143

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: EVANS, C. A.

TO : PARSONS

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/06/1961

3

SGI, INTV, MATASSA, JOHN, ASSOC, TRA, CRIMINAL ACT,

DONATION, RADIO TELEPHONES, RCA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

wert'

v9.1

DocId: 32306603 Page 1

192

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej:

DATE: 11914-2017

• §PTIONAL FORM NO. 10

LENT

UNITED STARES GOVE

Memorandum

TO

Mr. Parsons

FROM

: C.. A. Evans

DATE: March 6, 19,61

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA

ANTI-RACKETEERING

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Tolson -

Parsons

Mohi

Belmont

Callaha

DeLoach

Evans -

Malone -

Bosen —

Tavel -

Trotter -

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram —

Gandy -

PURPOSE:

To advise you of developments in our investigation of Chicago top

hoodlum Samuel M. Giancana. U

INTERVIEW WITH JOHN MATASSA, ALLEGED CHAUFFEUR AND BODYGUARD

FOR GIANCANA:

John Matassa, a former Chicago policeman now on disability retirement,

was interviewed March 1, 1961, concerning allegations that he is the chauffeur and

bodyguard for Giancana.

He denied being in the employ of Giancana but admitted

acquaintance with the subject and numerous other hoodlums. Matassa claimed

that he had absolutely no relation with Giancana or others, but said "I would

like to be Giancana's chauffeur if he would have me." u

Matassa said he is a close friend of Frank Sinatra and chauffeurs

him when he is in town.

He had letters of recommendation from William Randolph

Hearst and other influential persons. Hearst recommended Matassa to Illinois

Governor Otto Kerner as his personal chauffeur. (4)

DEVELOPMENTS RE QUANTITY OF RADIO TELEPHONES DONATED BY RCA:

In connection with the reported $600,000 of radio phone equipment

reportedly donated by RCA to disabled American veterans organization through

representative Harold McClintock, Miami informant 665-C has advised he :

understands McClintock is in some kind of racket where he sells machinery,

which he obtains from charitable organizations.

5- 46

92-3171-143

It is the informant's understanding that some firms donate equipment

to charitable organizations deducting such materiallat a high appraisal value.

charitable organizations then allegedly sell such'equipment to obtain cash for their

organizations. The informant said he had heard that McClintock gets a commission

1 - Mr. Rosen

MAR 14 1961

ÜGL:mrb

57 MAR 1 7 1961

CE

DocId: 32306603 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum to Mr. Parsons

Re: Samuel M. Giancana, Anti-Racketeering

on such sales handled by him and that in some manner, not further described,

makes a considerable additional sum on such deals. Giancana's connection with

the radio phone equipment has not been identified and Chicago is pressing

investigation to determine whether he is involved. (4)

INFORMANT ALLEGES RETIRED POLICEMAN CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF GIANCANA:

Retired Chicago policeman John Matassa, referred to above, according

I to Chicago informant 6443-C is a close associate of Giancana and acts as a guard

for stolen merchandise brought into the Chicago area by jewel thieves. One of

these thieves is an individual named Turk, who is described by the informant

as a hillbilly from Kentucky, who operates the Spotlight Bar, Cicero, Illinois,

for Giancana. (4)

According to the informant, when stolen merchandise is brought

into Chicago the thieves contact Matassa and a meet is arranged at the Spotlight

Lounge.

A safe is maintained in the back room of the lounge to which only Giancana

and Matassa have the combination. The informant believes that the safe is used

to store stolen merchandise and that it also contains personal papers of Giancana.C)

POSSIBLE VISIT OF GIANCANA TO LAS VEGAS AREA:

Martin Dardis, an enforcement officer of the Florida Beverage Bureau,

recently advised that Giancana might be in the Las Vegas, Nevada, area. Las Vegas

advised on March 1, 1961, that Joe Pignatello, known to be an advance agent for...

Giancana, rented an apartment at the Diplomat House in Las Vegas, on February 24,

/1961, for a one-month period. (4)

Pignatello precedes Giancana to those areas where Giancana intends

to visit. In the Summer of 1960, he rented a home near Las Vegas where

Giancana, his family, and Phyliss McGuire resided for a month (4)

REPORT THAT GIANCANA REGISTERED IN NAME OF CHICAGO ALDERMAN AT

NEW YORK CITY HOTEL TO ATTEND WORLD SERIES GAMES:

A New York source has advised that in October, 1960, Giancana registered

at the Hampshire House Hotel, New York City, when attending the World Series games,

under the name of Chicago Alderman Rosenberg. (4 /

-2 -

DocId: 32306603 Page 3

---

