# docid-32157890

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD _NUMBER: 124-10126-10077

RECORD_SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-2064-220

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CLEMENTS. MANNING C.

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/06/1963

PAGES: 302

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 44-24016-658

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

09/09/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NH 45116

DocId: 32157890

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDI

RAL BUREAU OF

NVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALIAS

JACK L. RUBY. Aka•;

SECRET

LEE HARVEY OSWALD,

Aka as

(DECEASED) - VICTIM

DATE

12/6/63

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/25/63 - 12/4/63

TYPET

SA MANNING C. CLEMENTS

CHARACTER OF CASE

CR

Report of SA MANNING C. CLEMENTS dated 11/30/63

at Dallas.

REFERENCE:

11-24-92

Crashed ay 9903 katente

classifyson: UADR 5 FK

V, EGG, IM

LEVIGNE

LEADS

AJ1 Isads are being

Copies are furnished of this report to Chicago, Detroit,

New Orleans and New York for information in vdew of investiga

tion being conducted by those offices.

ADMINISTRATIVE

No dissemination will be made outside the Bureau

except on

Bureau

instructions.

This report

contains no interviews with news madia

or police representatives who were present at the shooting of

OSWALD by RUBI or 11/24/63. These will be incorporated in a

subsequent report.

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

5 - Bureau (44-24026)

• • Chicago (44-645) (1nfo)

-Detroit (44-563)

• New Orleans (44-2064)

(1nto)

- New York (44-974) (jnfo)

- Dallas (44-1639)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

44.

2064-220

SEARCHED ......

INDEXED

SERIALIZED

FILED ....

DEC 1 119,3

FBI - NEW ORLEANS

Bales

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

all

vor

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD.

BY..

BLOKE

NOTATIONS

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN LS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

THERE SHOWN OTHERWISE. L

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SL0/GCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X. (1)(6)

(17K) 426/96

NW 45116 DocId: 32157890 Page 2

---

## Page 3

•IA 44-895

EJK :mjg

2

SECRET

RONNIE SCALIAR, TIMMY WELCH and NANCY SINATRA, daughter of

FRANK SINATRA.

On 9/19/63, IA 4429-C in discussing MAX WEINBERG,

designated as Top Jewel Theft subject, advised SAS DONALD

A. SCHLAEFER, and WILLIE R. WHITE and

Supervisor CHESTER

ST. VINCENT, that WEINGERG's daughter is presently employed

as a secretary for Reprise Records owned by FRANK SINÁTRÄ.

She received this job through a distributor, MEL (INU).

LA 4429-C further advised that he had heard that

people in the Reprise office were calling all over the

country and placing large bets.

No details or names

relative to this type of activity were available to LA 4429-c.

On 6/28/63, MICHAEL SHORE of Reprise Records,

1347 Cahuenga,

Los Angeles, California, Telephone No.

HO 6-8211, advised SAA CHARLES E. STINE that he had seen

publicity in the Los Angeles papers concerning the conviction

of MARVIN R. COLE on Obstruction of Justice charges.

'He

commented that he had known COLE for a long time and that

"MARVIN" COLE IS DOC STACHER'S bOy"

SHORE stated that he

had been, in some measure, responsible for starting COLE

out in business in New York City a number of years ago.

He indicated that on one occasion he had loaned money to

COLE in order that COLE might buy points in the Fremont

Hotel and Gambling Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada.

On 10/18/63 MARVIN R. COLE was indicted by the

Federal Grand Jury at Los Angeles, charging him with two

counts of violation of Obstruction of Justice.

Trial

commenced in U. S. District Court, Los Angeles 5/14/63.

on 5/23/63 the jury returned a verdict of guilty on both

counts. : On 6/12/63, a fine of $1,000 on each of the two

counts was imposed by the court.

Notice of Appeal was

filed by COLE's attorneys on 6/13/63.

The January, 1961 Agency List of the Standard

P

cour

SECRET

NW 45116 DocId: 32157890 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 44-1639

SECRET

ENew York 538-SJadvised thatat 12:15 p.m

November 13.

1963 WIESLAW GORNICKI, Polish correspondent of the Polished(k)

Press Agency, in a conversation with BOHDAN LEWANOWSKI, Polish

Ambassador to the United Statestated that he had information

indicating that the correspondent (name not given), of the Indian

Publication "Blitz" was in Dallas the day of the attack, ( assassi-

nation) and apparently obtained documents stating that police

Sheriff CURRY and RUBY were members of the "MB KESIDE" or

"MB SESILE" (phonetic) & CORNICKIwas to verify this information [K(v)

December 2, 1963, and*GORNICKIalso indicated this information

would be published in the near future by "BLITZ"', which he

described as

an Anti-American publication. The list of non United

States National Accredited as correspondents.and representatives of

information media by the. United Nations as of October 31, 1963,

lists RAMESH SANGHVI of Indian nationality as associated

with

was listed as

SECRET

4

HW 45116 DocId: 32157890

Page 4

---

## Page 5

DI: 44-1639/BL

Sources at San Antonio, Austin, Waco, Temple and

Pharr, Texas, had no pertinent information;

SECRET

The following sources were contacted negatively on

11/25/63 by the indicated Agents:

AT SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS:

SOURCE

PCI J. C. STEPHENSON, Proprietor, s. P.

Drug

Store and News Stand

SA 665-C

PCI VANCE F. BORDELON, gambler

PCI CAESAR J. FERRIS, cafe owner and

bartender

Former SA 560-C

PCI PHILLIP BORDONARO, Tavern keeper

PCI JACK PATRICK HANRATTY, gambler

PCI ROBERT S. YARRINGTON, retired gambler

Capt. ROBERT ALLEN, Vice Squad, SA PI

Including check of vice squad records)

PCI VINCENT L. LOCICERO

PCI WADE HANSEN

PCI

SA 660-C

CONTACTING AGENT

SA BRUNO F. DREYER

SA DREYER

SA DREYER

SA DREYER

SA DREYER

SA JOHN RUSSELI, GRAHAM

SA GRAHAM

SA GRAHAM

SA MORTON P. CHILES, JR.

SA CHILES

SA CHILES

SA CHILES

SA CHILES

OTHER 4

AT AUSTIN, TEXAS:

PCI MARY HALBOUTY, Manicurist

Former PCI MARION C. "SONNY" PEARSON,

gambler

-

SA H. T. BURK

SA BURK

COVER PAGE

SECRET

You

NW 45116 DocId:32157890 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DL 44-1639/BL

Sources at San Antonio, Austin, Waco, Temple and

Pharr, Texas, had no pertinent informationa

The following sources were contacted negatively

SECRET

11/25/63 by the indicated Agents:

AT SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS:

SOURCE

PCI J. C. STEPHENSON, Proprietor, S. P.

Drug Store and News Stand

SA 665-C

PCI VANCE F. BORDELON, gambler

PCI CAESAR J. FERRIS, cafe owner and

bartender

Former SA 560-C

PCI PHILLIP BORDONARO, Tavern keeper

PCI JACK PATRICK HANRATTY, gambler

PCI ROBERT S. YARRINGTON, retired gambler

Capt. ROBERT ALLEN, Vice Squad, SA PD

(including check of vice squad records)

PCI VINCENT L. LOCICERO

PCI WADE HANSEN

PCI

SA 660-C

CONTACTING AGENT

SA BRUNO F. DREYER

SA DREYER

SA DREYER

SA DREYER

SA DREYER

SA JOHN RUSSELL GRAHAM

SA GRAHAM

SA GRAHAM

SA MORTON P. CHILES, JR.

SA CHILES

SA CHILES

SA CHILES

SA CHILES

OTHER 4

AT AUSTIN, TEXAS:

PCI MARY HALBOUTY, Manicurist

Former PCI MARION C. "SONNY" PEARSON,

gambler

• COVER PAGE

-

SA H. T. BURK

SA BURK

SECRET

NW 45116 DocId: 32157890 Page 6

Your jiy

---

## Page 7

SL 44-496

SECRET

AT ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI

SL 1285-C-TE advised SA CLARK S. SMITH on :

November 27, 1963 that AL CHARLES, Proprietor

of the Stardust Club

him that he has known JACK

at St. Louis, Missouri, advised

RUBy for 15 years.

Informant stated that RUBY, according to CHARLES has

a business partner,

name unknown; who is 70 years of

age and who formerly was in business in Dallas,

Texas,

with an individual named JOE BOND. Informant stated

that CHARLES advised that BOND and RUBY's present

partner operated a bar and burlesque house in Dallas,

Texas, which was in competition with a similar

establishment operated by an unnamed individual who

had an

, "in"

with the Police Department.

Informant

advised that CHARLES related that subsequently a

rape charge was filed against BOND who then fled from

Dallas, Texas, to Washington, D.. C., where he opened

a similar business.

BOND according to CHARLES was

later "fingered" and arrested at Washington, D. C.

However, no dates of occurrance were given in relating

this story.. Informant advised that CHARLES stated RUBY

then went into business in Dallas with JOE BOND's, former

partner, name unknown.

The indicies of the St. Louls Office failed to

reflect any derogatory information on AL CHARLES.

AA

(COVER PAGE) SECRET

NW 45116

DocId: 32157890

Page

7

---

## Page 8

DL: 44-1639

SECRET

On November 27, 1963, the St. Louis Office advised that

SL 1285-C-TE advised SA CLARK S. SMITH on November 27, 1963, that

AL CHARLES, Proprietor of Stardust Club, St. Lout, Missouri,

has known JACK RUBY for fifteen years.

According to informant,

CHARLES stated RUBY has a business partner, name not mentioned,

70 years old, who formerly was in business in Dallas with an indi-

vidual named JOE BONDS.

Informant advised that BONDS and RUBY's

present partner operated a bar and burlesque house which was in

competition with a similar establishment operated by an unnamed

individual who was friendly with the police department.

sult a rape charge was filed against BONDS, who then fled from

Dallas to Washington, D. C., where he opened

a similar business.

BONDS, according to CHARLES, was later arrested at Washington,

D. C.,

and no dates given.

Informant stated according to CHARLES,

RUBY

then went in business with BONDS' former partner.

AL CHARLES,

Proprietor of Stardust Club, St. Louss,

Missouri, featuring EVELYN WEST and other burlesque acts, was

personally contacted by SA CLARK S. SMITH on November 27, 1963.

CHARLES stated he is not personally acquainted with JACK RUBY;

did not know he originally came from Chicago, or that his name

now ho or is at cane

was RUBENSTEIN.

However, CHARLES advised he

has known of JACK RUBY

as being in a similar business endeavor as his in Dallas for the

past 15 years.

CHARLES stated he received a telephone call from RUBY

approximately two years ago on occasion RUBY made an inquiry re-

garding night club acts.

CHARLES further advised in April of

this year he paid a visit to Dallas and patronized the three

burlesque

houses in Dallas, including that of JACK RUBY. CHARLES

maintained he has other knowledge of RUBY or his associates.

SECRET

COVER

PAGE

HW 45116

DocId: 32157890

Page 8

---

