# docid-32173769

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10178-10088

RECORD_SERIES: LA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 89-75-41, 42,43

eleased under the John

' Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, SF

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/22/1963

PAGES: 8

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

SEE FBI 62-109060-590, 1533 AND 89-43-472

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

12/06/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC 2 TTY, A/T

HH 53025

DooId: 32173769

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-J6 (Re'

12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPE

F BiI

Date:

11/22/63

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

URGENT

(Priority or.Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (89-58)

FROM:

SAC, LOS ANGELES (89-new)

UNSUBS. ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F.

KENNEDY, ASSAULTING OR KILLING FEDERAL OFFICER.

RE SAN FRANCISCO TEL TO BUREAU TODAY.

GEORGE JOSEPI KIA, JR. FIRSI CAME TO ATTENTION

OF LOS ANGELES OFFICE DURING INVESTIGATION OF WILLIAM

POTTER GALE, AKA. RM. SEE REPORTS SA HARRY L. GRIFFIN

DATED JULY TWENTY FOUR AND OCTOBER ELEVEN LAST, BUFILE

SIX TWO DASH ONE ZERO FIVE TWO FIVE THREE, SAN FRANCISCO

FILE ONE FIVE SEVEN DASH THREE ONE ZERO.

JAMES KEMBLE LA FLEUR MENTIONED REFERENCED

REPORTS BEING CONSIDERED AS PCI BY LOS ANGELES.

BUREAU,

REFERENCE LOS ANGELES LETTER TO BUREAU CAPTIONED JAMES

KEMBLE LA FLEUR OCTOBER THIRTY ONE LAST.

INFORMATION RE KING FURNISHED ANTU, LOS ANGELES

BY LETTER JULY SIXTEEN LAST. KING ARRESTED BY ATTU WHEN

SEANORED

89 new

1

157-697

157-571

1- 137-3741

HLG: mjg

SALLOO

FILED

(4) Ni

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

1N 53025 DocId:32173769 Page 2

- M Per m

89-15-42

---

## Page 3

URGENT 11-22-63 6-46 PM

MJM

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC, SAN FRANCISCO

189-581

FROM SAC, LOS ANGELES: 189-NEW/ 2P

UNSUBS.

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN Fo

KENNEDY, ASSAULTING OR KILLING FEDERAL OFFICERO

RE SAN FRANCISCO TEL TO BUREAU TODAY.

GEORGE JOSEPH KING, JR. FIRST CAME TO ATTENTION

OF LOS' ANGELES OFFIÇE DURING INVESTIGATION OF WILLIAM

POTTER

GALE, AKAO RMO. SEE REPORTS SA HARRY LO GRIFFIN

DATED JULY TWENTY FOUR AND OCTOBER ELEVEN. LAST, BUFILE

SIX TWO DASH ONE ZERO FIVE TWO FIVE THREE, SAN FRANCISCO

FILE ONE FIVE SEVEN DASH THREE ONE ZERO.

JAMES KEMBLE LA FLEUR MENTIONED REFERENCED

REPORTS BEING CONSIDERED AS PCI BY LOS ANGELES. BUREAU

REFERENCE LOS ANGELES LETTER TO BUREAU CAPTIONED JAMES

KEMBLE LA FLEUR OCTOBER THIRTY ONE LAST.

INFORMATION RE LING FURNISHED ATTU, LOS ANGELES

BY LETTER JULY SIXTEEN LAST. KING ARRESTED BY ATTU WHEN

END PAGE ONE

SEARCHED_

INREXED

89

1/.2

HW 53025 DocId:32173769 Page 3

---

## Page 4

11/22/63

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

TO:

RE:

SAC, DALLAS

FROM: SAC, LOS ANGELES (89-75)

ASSASSINATION OF

PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY

DALEnS, TEXAS

11/22/63

ASSAULTING OR KILLING FEDERAL OFFICER

For Information of Dallas, San Francisco by

teletype 11/22/63 advised the Bureau and Los Angeles as

follows:

BOB STRAND, Reporter, UPI, advised today he had

received Information from an anonymous source that one

GEORGE JOSEPH KING, JR. of Long Beach, California, allegedly

the son of a retirad admiral and who had been arrested on a

charge of illegally selling machine guns, had been involved

with several others in a conversation during 8/19/63, wherein

KING and the others discussed the possibility of killing

the President.

The conversation was supposed to have taken

place in the Long Beach area and KING 18 supposed to reside

somewhere in Southern California near Los Angeles.

LOB

Angeles requested to determine KING's present location and

advise Secret Service of the alleged threat. Also advise

Bursau as to the results of check.

2 - Dallas

1/- Los Angeles

WQS Imjg

(3)

ii!

NW 53025 DooId: 32173769 Page 4

89-75-43

---

## Page 5

LA 89-75

The following teletype was

sent by Los Angeles

to

the Director and San Francisco at 6:46 p.m., 11/22/63:

GEORGE JOSEPH KING, JR. first came to attention of

Los Angeles Office during investigation of WILLIAN POTTER

GATE, aka. RM.

See reports SA HARRY L. GRIFFIN dated

7//24 and 10/11/63, Bufile 62-105253, San Francisco file

157-310.

JAMES KEMBLE TA FLEUR mentioned referenced reports

being considered as PCI by Los Angeles.

Bureau reference

Los Angeles letter to Bureau captioned JAVES KEMBLE LA FLEUR,

10/31/63.

Information re KING furnished ATtU, Los Angeles

by letter 7/16/63.

KING arrested by AllU when he sold sten

At time of arrest

KING gave employer as Wadelt ana Reeds 9301 Wilshire Biva.,

Los Angeles, the firm by which GALE is employed.

LA FLEUR recently advised KING had gone to work

for La Fleur Corporation of which LA FLEUR is President.

Contact with LA FLEUR Corporation today determined KING was

at work and in the plant.

KING described as white, male, born 8/14/33,

Norfolk, Virginia, 6', 175 pounds, brown hair, blue eyes,

address 1404 East

Second Street, Long Beach, California.

Reported to be graduate of Annapolis and son of retired

U. S. Navy Admiral GEORGE JOSEPH KING, SR.

Information re KING in referenced tel and

descriptive info telephonically furnished to Secret Service

Los Angeles today and info confirmed by letterhead memo.

Letterhead memo being submitted.

No further action being taken by Los Angeles.

-2-

HIH

53025

DooId: 32173769 Page 5

---

