# docid-32309455

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10298-10242

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1693-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

05/17/1961

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32309455

23

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

office of Security

Department of State

T390

The United States Börder Patrol and United States

Custons in Miani have been furnished this intornation. *ine

United States Borderc Latrol plans to attempt to stop the

expedition involving the Americans Is ha)

As additional infornation is received concerning

this group, you will be advised.

1 - Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

I - Director of Naval Intelligence

1 - Office of Special Investigations

Air Force

Attention: Chief, Counterintelligence Division

1 - Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence

Department of the Anuy

Attention: Chief, Security Division

I - Deputy Connissioner, Investigations

Bureau of Customs

1 - The Commissioner

Immigration and Naturalization Service

1 - Assistant Attorney General

(By separate. communication,

J. Walter Yeagley

same date)

NOTE ON YELLOW:

The CIA in Miami has advised that although

Capo is under assessment for operational interest in connection (1s)

with the operation of a clandestine radio network,

he is not

Petrol prans to atrol the sout te sake the lece maissane

trip but wild stop the expedition involving the Americans.

This communication being classified "Contidential" inasmuch

as

information contained herein was furnished byMM 639-Sguan(U

informant of continuing value,

disclosure of which information

could adversely affect thezguture effectiveness of this

informant.

DocId: 32309455

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the Fohn F.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Aspassinal

Collectron

Aut

1952

144

050

Radio

AFFRUPA

AND FIELD

ADVISED BY

SLIP (S)

DATE

TE

Poison

Parsons

DECODEDE

Belmont

Callahan

OPY

GARCIBS

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Conrad

DeLoach

'ICES

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

Evans

Malone

URING

Assitied

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION E

Trotter

IN THIS DOCUMENI

W.C. Sullivan

«x*Teletype

Gands

PRIATE AGENCIE

A!

SUTP(5

URGENT

5-17-61 12:36 PM EST

Від

5+6 190-4510-30

TO DIRECTOR

Clastiffed loy

MULTIPLE SOURCES

FROM SAC MIAMI

171646

per190-4510536

Dache ly on and

-+5/1/94-57

ANTI-COMMUNIST LEGIONNAIRES

NM.

RE MM LETTER MAY 11 LAST

WITH ENCLOSURES. EMM 639-5

N MAY 17 INSTANT, ADVISED THAT

GERALD PATRICK HENNING,

HE AB

OF CAPTIONED ORGANIZATION,, HAS

BEEN IN CONTACT WITH TAGUSTIN CAPO, CUBAN NATIONAL IN MI,

WHO HAS ACCESS TO A PT BOAT AND A QUANTITY OF RADIO EQUIPMENT.

CAPO PLANS TO MAKE A RECONNAISSANCE TRIP TO CAY AGUILLA, CAY.:

SAL BANK, BRITISH ISLANDS NORTH OF CUBA, ON MAY 17 INSTANT.

CAPO WILL RETURN TO MM AND ON MAY 26 WILL RETURN TO CAY AGUILLA

BY SAME PT BOAT AND WILL TAKE WITH HIM HENNING AND 15-20 AMERICANS

WHO ARE MEMBERS OF CAPTIONED ORGANIZATION. INFORMANT EXPECTS

HENNING AND GROUP WILL HAVE ARMS AND WILL TRY

LU OPERATE OUI

OF CAY AGUILLA AGAINST CUBA ON COMMANDO RAIDS ALCIA, MM ADVISED

ALTHOUGH CAPO IS UNDER ASSESSMENT FOR OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN

CONNECTION WITH THE OPERATION OF A CLANDESTINE RADIO NETWORK

HE IS NOT YET UNDER CIA CONTROL AND SHOULD BE STOPPED. IS 5'48 (U)

US

BORDER PATROL AND CUSTOMS ADVISED. BORDER PATROL PLANS TO

ALLOW PT BOAT TO MAKE RECONNAISSANCE TRIP BUT WILL STOP THE

EXPEDITION INVOLVING THE AMERICANS. AMM 639-

•XPECTS TO BE

ABLE TO FURNISH FULL DETAILS OF BOAT

TRIPS

INASMUCH AS OTHER

AGENCIES APPARENTLY HAVE NO COVERAGE.

BUREAU WILL

BE. KEPT

ADVISED. LETTERHEAD MEMO FOLLOWS.

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 5000142

n 1-16-98 (JFK)

RECELVED: n

1:44 PM TELE TYPE

rESE

2:03 PM CODING UNIT

MJC

REG- 26

LANATO DECOASSIFICATION

1692-

entitie Earl

5-15-61

60012

CLASSIFICA

TOYS MAY 19 1961

AOTTON T

with stale the ho

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outsid he ureau, in is suggested that it be sui ab?,

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32309455

Page 3

Hotel.

---

