# docid-32373730

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: CIA

RECORD NUMBER :

104-10308-10244

RECORD SERIES: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: LA DIV WORK FILE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

CIA

TO: CHIEF OF STATION, MEXICO CITY

TITLE: MEMO: ZRKNICK SUMMARY

DATE: 09/03/1963

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

AMAPOLA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER - TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

• CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

JFK-WF02 : F4: 1998.09.21.07:37:33:280128 :

v9.1

HH 53217

DocId: 32373730

Page 1

•Date:

3/8/2017

Released under the

John

'. kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

---

## Page 2

104-10308-10244

filed

alejandi /123

Job: 75-152

IRKNICK

Subjest:

•ZRKNiCK Funman

TOP SECRET DiNART

Date: 3 Feptem

ties 1963

5

56-07966-63

5. MATA, waich la ballered possibly to be l' "or

DR - 82863 hee boon Inartis for epprondonately nie montle, In mile e

thara mas a firit re longtay inter: 5110a la traílic.

acthing aboul t's "goal and probably will oot be able ...:

inmosigation i :111 massage to hin reappear on al..!.

information la ::lyod to basier in tin identslicatio: 1'

lexico arre: in is "15 trowledge.

I. DELIRAN, Dos location nI setious la tetner 1.

actiresses of a turnTaga la late Jase 1961 after sa ini..

over Baron prentia.

Consoats of the marlier trallie a.

Inilieste thes "FI, T MAN sis to have en ascorinodat!

Alasdeo Giry.

G. JULIE.

Two maRBageD inly, dabed Jar. "

1963 were tErnT niad to tilo agont, Contento al apo:1!

indissos that ha la located in ona al the Coulia Me. :. "I

7.

Agenta anil snent coraplesos ander joins lavastiga d.i'i:

F'BRUMEN DIVISIOn AN1 CIENVY (OS by OLF NVY RonO) AT !.!

briefly belor, No jar vIs tell aware from 11y rocont SERi*:

these too savo thats ? Mura sspecta.

A. AMAPOLA mila outeratica licated 1a tho Miami area

has los 10 t sin ibisetire to panati aion ol NUBAN and exile

operations dirasta? agalost PARUMEN. One tiportant egent;

ponsibly tan A, hes boos idondlied ty CDENVY ani is a ritur-

ailsad U.S, citiena al Cubea birla, ODENVY la ourrently readini.

24

açcos sho has an unexplained connoct an with the apent. Another

ViAVE asdel in, lan had concoct tits toe agent, has been inter ro

galod and lourd to be cloar. A thiri WAVE asset in contact with

thin agant. har been tamed over to ODEIVY los possible use again

the 9g88f.

B. ENDAR with outatalie, located in Prer.

teen tractire since infdaJune 1969 wi in lho principal

callod to Cube "ulisandly do a recult 'l discovsring.

survolilanca, My:LiVY corud not pp." nisad the ager:

16 a U.B, cilri, 211 there was Insullisiont ertdence "

bitra. The ag'it hal sovered coatects und/or sappori.

presumably s. 'll la fuarto Ricos rad la addidian.

cribscia in "e: *er 15187. The mali nijockro was !:

- 1

TOP SECRET INAR

3/mc

HH 53217

DocId: 32373730 Page 2

---

