# docid-32313056

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10325-10305

RECORD SERIES: SJ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BRANDON

TO : SJ

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 05/25/1977

'PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

ANTONIO VECIANA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC FD-302

v9.1

/ DocId: 32313056

12

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the oohn F. Kennety AssassinatTon Records Collection Act of 1992

DATE: 17-14-2017

- FD-209 (Rev. 12-20-76

SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHLU

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

SAC Sin Juan

DATE:

5/25/27

FROM

: SA

HARiy Breanden

SUBJECT:

(551 849-04763)

(5)

Dates of Contact

5/23/7>

File #s

which contacted (Use Titles if File #s not available)

65-5147(5)

Purpose and results of contact

LI NEGATIVE

attached is on FD-302, Inforination

IUFOSITIVE

_J STATISTIC

berein lilaine cont. deutrallu informents (5)

nome

is not de he disclosed in a report

or otterine unters it bas heen decided

definately that thes person is. to be a

motress in a trial or hearing.

ALE INPORMATTON CONTAINED

HORDIN 13 LUCLASSTETED EXC22

WHERE SHOWN OIUERIFISES

-8/21/98

REASON:

CEASON DAYS 668-540 de

(C,di)

DECLASSIFY ON: X (Y6)

(TK)

PERSONAL DATA

SECRE

(u(5-514-1718)

SERIALIZED. AM

....FILED!"

MAY 3|1 1977

B1/DOJ

FBI - SAN JUAN

TOP SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED

DocId: 32313056 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

undeD stre. John E Kennedy Assassination Records Collection

L ACt. 06. 1092: 444.150

0DA15 11-14-2017

Totele

FEDERAL SURGAU OF INVESTICATION

(3)

Qay 24,

1977

SECRE

# Dels et tronserlott

On lay 23) 1977, a confidential source,

ho has CS)

provided reliable information in the past. was interviewed by

Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and he

advised that on May 18, 1972) he made a telephone call Crom CS_

puerto Rico to the Cuban Embassy CA Mexico City, Mericoy ad§50

arranged statement concerning the status of a visa to signag

the embassy that he would be traveling to Mezico City. Source CSO

stated that the secretary who handled

Embassy

appeared not to recognize the

the: call in the Cuban

signal

and sho)simply CS]

told him that the vice Council was not

in the Embassy

Puerto Rico,

oMay 39, 1977, the source)traveled from San Juan, (S]

to Miami, Florida, via Fastern Airlines Flight

Number 938.

Source arrived in Miami at approximately 10 a.m. CS]

Cand was met by his business partner,

ANTONIO VECIANA:

ESJ

Source

advised that VECIANA now states: that JALORREGUIA is CS

currently working for the Panamnian Government Intelligence.

While at

the "Replica" oifice, the sourcemet with MAX INSNIK CSO

and ROGER REDONDO, who according to the source, are both

employees of Replica' newspaper

CS3

T

P

SECREI

ClasstTied by 3072

Bempt fron GaS, Categories ?

- Date of declassifiation Indet

AIL, INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIZTED BACERI

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE..

8/21/98

CLASSIFED BY: 5668SLD/reda

REASON:

(c,d)

DECLASSIFY ON: X OCE

C5/23/77

intos towed on

SA LAPRY.B.

BRANDOIT,

by .

SA PAUL 21. IS MR

.C:

Dorado, Puerto Rico

_File #

Ss 65-514)(5)

SA STUART M. HOYT, JR.

(S)

PMR : maw

Dale dicioted

(5/24/17

locument conidins rether recommenda ions. nor conclusions

of the Fer

its.contents.ure. not.to.be distriouted.outside.apu. agency.

Is is the propedy of the fbi and isidored lo your agency:

ДacId:32313056

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kernedy Aspassination Records Collection Act of, 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote)

DATES S-11-14-2017

55(65-614 (3)

SECRET

While at

the "Replica" newspaper office, the source (S

was told that

one BERNARDO VELEZ, who is reportedly "one of

JIMMY CARTER's people," told MAX LESNIK that he had been told

in Washington that ALDEREGUIA was working for the Cuban Govern-

ment.

Source stated that it appeared that ROGER REDONDO hadCS

told VECIANA about ALDEREGUIA's connection with the Panamaian s

Government.

Source stated that REDONDO was at one time a CS_

Captain in an anti-Batista organization known as the Segunda

Frente (Second Front). (Source learned that ALDEREGUIA is CS

almost always present at the "Replica newspaper office in

Miami; Florida.

VECIANA requested that the sourceltell the CUIS in CS.

Mexico Cit that members of

the Coordinacion de Organizaciones (S

Revolucionarias Unidas (Coordination of United Revolutionary

Organizations) (CORU) frequently

come to "The Little Havana"

VILLAVERDELIS Currently in

stated that CORU members LEDO, CASTILLO, GASPAR JIMENEZ

OROZCO have been seen at that office. VECIANA requested

CS]

that the source alsotell the CUIS that he had heard that

ALDEREGUIA IS currently working for the Panamanian Government

In addition, VECIANA asked the source to advise CUIS thatS

recently ORLANDO BOSCH was interviewed on a radio program

and he was encouraging action against the Venezuelan Govern-

ment. Source was to further]advise the CUIS that BOSCH, who CS

desired a speedy triai in Venezuela, had gotten word to CORU

that if he did not get a trial soon that CORU would take action

and place a bomb against some Venezuelan property. This

bob would be designed to cause very little damage and no

injury to anyone.

If the Venezuelan Government did not act

with dispatch regarding a speedy trial for BOSCH, a second

bomb would be placed by CORU which would

cause considerable

damage to Venezuelan property: Source stated that VECIANA CS]

felt that in light of the BOSCH trial matter, the

Cubans might

attempt to get the Venezuelan Government

to expedite that

trial.

SECRET

DOC1d032313056

Pade

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Coltection act of. 1992 (11 USC

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hotel.

SJ (E5-514 J1S

SECRET

Florida, to Mexico City

(S)

Mexico,

leaving

Via Aeronaves Airlines Flight #411 on May 19J 1977,

E5]

Miami at 3 p.m. and arriving atllexico City at 5 p.m.LS.

and went to his room, CS.

7503g at the el Diplomatico Hotel in Mexico City At 7:20 p.m.s

source took one tax to the middle of town and then another t

the assigned meeting place with the CUIS. (Source stated that" (S

a tunnel and then returned to the center of the sidewalk where

he was met by CARLOS, whom he had previously met and another S

Cuban individual Source stated that CARLOS was

wearing a CS

dark jacket, a blue T-shirt under

the jacket, dark parts and

carrying a small handbag in which there was a gun.

Source CS3

stated that the other Cuban was a white mle, approximately

28 years Old, weighing 150, 5!8" tall, and having black hair

(worn medium length and parted on the right side which was

combed down.

This individual who was referred to as RAUL, had

no sideburns, no mustache and was wearing white-rimmed glasses.

He was dressed with a light jacket, white shirt with a collar,

and dark pants.

naut, although he did not smoke, often had

black cigarette holder in his mouth.

He carried nothing in

his hands.

Source believed that CARLOS was the apparent leader CS

of the iwo.

Source advised that his sister from Cuba, AMALIA, did (S

Snot travel to Mexico Cil tu be with the cuis during their need with

the source,. Source was told by CARLOS that

they did

the CUIS and,

she did not come to meet him as was previously arranged. Es

SECRET

Docid: 32313056 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Releaged under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1993 (44 USC 2107 Hotel:

DATET TT-17-2017

83: 65-514](5)

SECRET

1006.

and went

Source advised that RAUL left CARLosand the source Cs)

to pick up an apparently rented car a short distance

away:

Source stated that) this car was

a 1975 light green two-CS

(572007

Vail'i am tic

Source noted what appeared to be car rental papers 1l

RAUL's pocket

with the works 'Puerto Rico" as part of the

rental firmis name.

Upon entering the car, CARLOS stated (5)

that tbey did not want to use a Ciban Embassy Car for these

meets or identification reasons.

Source stated that they

raveled in the automobile for approximately ene and one

half hours and went to a Hotel San Miguel in Puebla Citr. & S-

they travelediout of Mexico CityJon the Expressway CS

off at Reforma Avenue, proceeded twoSs

blocks and then right for twootlocks. Source stated that CS

the Hotel San Wiguelappeared wery run down and third classes.

He stated trat the CUIS had apparently rented two rooms, Co

ne on the

round floor and the other on the first floor,

Room: #102.S

243S/49/062592

Upon ertering the San Miguel Hotel, the sourcemet CS.

a white Cuban male who was introduced to him as HECTOR.

HECTOR CS]

was approxinhtely 15 years of age, 5'6" tall, weighing 185

pounds, having dark eyes and slightly crey black hair, which

was combed straight back. HECOOk wore no glasses and had no

mustache nor beard. (Source understood HECTOR to beJa television (S

and videotape techniciar. (CANLOS told source thatJHECTOR camels

from Cuba and worked with the CUIS in Cuba. Upon entering the

ground Iloor.room, the source noted an automatic pistol lying

on the pea and he understood that this pistol belonged to

HECTOR. S

Source advised that up to this point in conversation

with RAUL, the latter had talked a lot about the good times

that he recently had on a trip to the Soviet Union when he

accompanied WIDEL CASTRO there.

He stated that the Cuban

delegation enjoyed many big parties in Russia and there was

an abundanceof beer, vodka and

Russian women. RAUL felt

that the Russian people loved FIDEL CASTRO. Source, stated

that while enroute to the San Miguel Hotel, CARLOS advised

the sourue that JONGE sends his rogards to the source.

Source.

stated that JORGE is "The General

who has previously met

with the source on recent meets

(S

SECRET

DocId: 32313056 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

-DATE, 11-14-2017

collection Hot

992 199. 050

Hote,.

5° (65-511 (S)

SECRET

In the ground floor room of the hotel, the source

another Cuban who was

introauced to him as SANTANA.

Source

described him as a Mulatto;

who had: Negro features

is 5'8!' tall, weighing approximately 160 pounds, 40 years 0f

age and has black kinky hair.

Source stated

that SANTANA

works for the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

while enroute to the San Miguel Hotel

CARLOS CS

mentioned

to the sourcelthat the CUIS had wanted to make aCS.

a contact with the source and to later show

this only to FIDEL CASTED and other high-ranking Cuban

Government officials. Source agreed to this.

Source noted

in the room that a videotape camera, which appeared to be a

Sony product, was mounted on à tripod on a table and a

microphone placed just off to the side of the table..

Source

stated that the video machine was black and white in color

and that he

and white

•(derstood the clinine would also ke in black

Prior to the videotaping of the source, there had (S

Libeen conversation concerning MANOLO RAY. Source

advised that

CARLOS told him that while the source's sister was recently

in Puerto Rico during January, 1977, RAY had told her that

he was interested in meeting the CUIS. RAY had stated at

that time

that he would be sending a letter to the source's

sister in

i Cuba.

Source finderstood that RAY would be making

a meet with the CUIs in the near future.

Source stated that

it appeared that the CHIs wanted no connection between

the

, In conversation prior to th

i deatabine ano as and the sourne that ballad cume trom

CS.

Cuba to dexico Cition the evening of (May 18,) 1977, arriving <53

very late.

SECRET

Dbc1a:32313056

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hotel?

DATE: 11-14-2017

SS (65-514) (S)

SECRET

source advised that prior to the videotaping, RAUL

SANTANA left the room and apparently went upstairs

to

Room 102:10

sleep

Source stated that he sat alone at the

table upon which the videotape machine was mounted and CARLOS

asked him a list of questions.

This taping, in which three

reels were used,

took one hour and 25 minutes. .

Source was

asked

about his

family situation in Cuba before FIDEL CASTRO

took

over.

He was asked about his thoughts on the Batista

Regime in Cuba. He

family situation in and out of Cuba.

was asked to comment about his presen (S

ewas asked. angut

what political movements he had been a member of, and he

responded with Alpha 66

ana scambrey: When questioned about CS

Alpha 66, the source told the interviewer that in 1964 he

had helped Cuban exiles and

alls to pass through fuerto Rie

to Santo Domingo to be used

against Cuba. He stated that CS

during that year he had helped approximately 28 individuals

and that all but four of those individuals had returned. He

stated that the other four

who made it to Cuba were now

Cuban prisons. Source was

asked to give comments about his CSJ

participation in Jan assassination attempt of FIDEL CASTRO

in Chile in 19TI, and the

comment on

the assassination re rond he ras asked toJ (S

KENNEDY in 1965 an

about his contacts and knowledge of ANTONIO VECIANA.

The

interviewer wanted to know VECIANA's position with the u.s.

Embassy in Bolivia in 1971. He was asked to comment about (S

a Mr. BLAIR and Mr. KAIL, who were reportedly employees of

the U.S. Embassy in Cuba

during the takeover of the Cuban

Government by FIDEL CASTRO:

The CUIS suspected these

individuals of being associated with the U.S. Central Intelligence

Agency and asked the source that if he knew where they are

now

and if he had ever contacted them at the U.s, Embassy.

Source was questioned about his participation in another

with a Bazooka. He stated that lan

apartment was rented ôn CS

Mission Street in Havana, Cuba, by VECIANA's mother-in-law.

Scurce stated that they waited nine months for FIDEL CASTRO CS

and later they reported that it was too old and

not functional. Source stated that this, Bazooka, which was

ES?

used against BATISTA, had been hidden until the time öf the

SECREE

Doc Id: 32313056

Page

---

## Page 9

Released under "the. John F: Kennedy Assassination

- DATES 11-14-2017

ACT

ST 65-514

7

SECRET

aforementioned assassination attempt. (source added that theC

Cuban Government found out about this assassination

attempt

about two months after the above-mentioned individuals

in the plot left the hotel. room, because the Bazooka was

left in the room.

CARLOS asked the source to send a message to FIDELC

CASTRO and comment on what he thought about the possibility.

of renewed relations between the United States and Cuba.

Source stated that many Cubans wanted to return to Cuba

family reasons and that many Cuban exiles are still, however!

hostile against the FIDEL CASTRO Government.

to the Cubar Government, source stated that he was sorry that

he did everything against CASTRO and that he wanted to come

back to Cuba sometine to visit and that he would also like

to hely the Cuban Government. The interviewer asked(thes.

he felt about workina with the cuIs contacts

told the interviewer that things appear to be good in Cuba

and

that everyone is receiving free education and medical

treatment. (source added that he has never lived under LS

Communism so he could

not make a well considered statement

(sabout it. Source stated in the last segment of the tapelthey

presented him with large blow-up photographs of photographs

which he had earlier given to them which concerned an Alphats

66 meeting in Dallas, Texas, in 1563.

There appeared in the

shots an individual answering description of LEE HARVEY OSWALI

15) They asked the source in front of the video machine to point c

which individual in the blow-ups could possibly be LEE HARVEY

OSWALD.

There was no other comment made about these pictures:

there were no other

questions made and at that point the

videotaping ended., CS

SECRET

DocTd:32013056 Page g

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

collection. Hat

DATE: 11-14-2017

191 U59

toter.

SJ (65-514 ](5)

SECRET

During the above taping, the source felt that he CS

was

very convincing and that

he came across as giving honest,

forthright responses:

he stated that after the taping they

showed him approximately 20 t0 25 pictures of cuban exiles

and requested that he identify the individuals on the

photos.

thät several

Source stated that these photos were quite old and CS]

had same names on the back although they were

different individuals. The cuis requested that he identify

anyone he coula in the group peotos. source state that

(5)

ne saw FRANK: CASTRO, a current CORU member, among the grouo

of photograghs.

that

conversation after the taping, CARLOS mentioned

(3]

CUIS knew that Mr. BISHOP, Who was referred to in

recent conversation between the source and the CUIS, was an

individual with

the name of DAVE PHILLY or PHILLIPS (phonetir).

advised that he would ask his superiors

the source.

opportunity.totalk. with his.superiors.about the matter.

meet FIDEL CASTRO and other Cuban Government leaders. It

suggested by cArios that the source could trayal from

Jamaica or

stated that newulane be traven ancha moanse trongly cs

nature of the training was not discussed. CARLOS advised

that the CUIS would like him to travel to Florida for

a

three or four day period and mix with CORU members and VECIANA.

source advised that during one 15 minute period

after the videotaping the electric lights went out and there

was some consternation in the room as to what was happening.

At this time the source noted that CARLOS had in his

possession an automatic pistol.

• Source advised

that he, RAUL and CARLOS, left the room at about 3 a.m. CARLOS

took the tapes with him and HECTOR and SANTANA stayed in the

room.

The

source, CARLOS and RAUL traveled approximately one

and

one-half hours back to Mexico City and at one time, approximate

5 a.m., their car was stopped by a traffic patsolman as they

had

gone through a red traffic light.

CARLOS presented his

diplomatic passport and the police officer permitted them to go.

RAVi did not bring his

passport with

him. Source stated that

during the trip tack to Mexico

City, CARLOS stated that ne

SECRET

PecId:32313056

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the voin f Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note)s

DATE:. 11-14-2017

SJ 65-514

SECRET

greatly disliked the San Miguel Hotel and that the only CS

they had used

than anywhere in Mexico City.

CARLOS requested

him to meet

and others at

Negra Restaurant the following morning at 9:30 a.m.

source C5_

stated that this restaurant is located

..at

Universicad and Stare

street (close to the Diplomatico Hotel).

this restaurant is also located near the Comercial Mexicana

Shopping Center

a Cuban whom (SJ

This individual was a white male,

approximately 5'10" tall, weighing 160 pounds; having black

hair, approximately 48 vears of age and not wearing glasses,

sideburns nor a mustache, This individual's hair was worn

straight back and he was wearing a white Guaybera.

Source CSI

added that this individual appearea to be a eigerate chain

smoker.

In addition to this individual, the source met CAMPOS JCS

woom he had met on his previous trip to Mexico City. Sourcel Es]

described(CAMPOSes a white male Cuban, 5'6" tall, approximately (S

35 years of age,

weighing 160 pounde, having long biack hair

and

an employee of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico. Source des-

cribed (CAMPOS as a rather tat individual..

The name CAMPOSANTO T < S

was also used in reference to this individual.

Source advised that the above-mentioned new CS

individual appeared to be in command when he: CARLOS and

The new individual (S

advised(the source that the CUIS would like to see him <S

again inCkingston,

the sourcel to travel choegasts torel in ningston on Cs

that date and that he would be telephonically contacted by

the CUIS. He was advised by the new individual that if hels

had something of an urgent nature to discuss with the Cuis

he could either send a cable to Kingston, Jamaica, or Mexico CS_

He stated that the cable would addise that

date)." (The source was

instructed that he would then

travel CS

three days earlier than the date mentioned in the cable.

Was further instructed that he could send the cable to either

QUAN CARBONELL, #9

Tralalgai Avenue, New Kingston, Jamaica:

to establish a meet in Jamaica, or to PEDRO CAMPO, Presidente

Mazarik #554, Colonia Polanco, Mexico 5, D.F., to establish

a meet in Mexico.

He was advised by the new individual

In cane st da energy Me do danion to coule do to use

Dacid: 32

19056

Page

11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records coulection Act of 1992 195, U5C

DATE 3-11-14-2017

SI. 65-514 (3)

SECRET

Pegasus Hotel in Kingstonjand the CUIs wouta telephonicaly CS

suck an emergency meet was requiredin Mexico

City,

Mexico, source

"Viaducto

was advised to go to the Metro Station

which is

Located in front of a movie house J (S

Source was advised that if the CUIS would like toEs

contact

him they would send

a cable fron a country other than

Cuba to the source's mother, who is currently residing

the source in Puerto Rico,, requesting medicine be sent to.

the source's sister who Is a resident of Cuba. (S

the new individual advised the source that he coulds

be contacted anywhere in the United

Entes or Puerto Rico by

one of their agents and that this individual would approach

him by saying,

(You look like the brother of De. MIRANDA PRADO."

Source was instructed to retort to the previous statement

by saying "Yes, my brother is Dr. ANDRES MIRANDA PRADO., (SJ

During the course of the breakfast the source was (SJ

Government wants to help him with his

He was instructed at that time 5J

CS]

current status of GASPAR JIMENEZand after this the CUIS CS

stated that they would like GASPAR to leave the United States CS

so that they would be able to encounter him.

the new individual mentioned above asked the source (S

Puerto C5"

Rico, had in any way been connected with the U.S. Central

ACEVEDO had lived with her sister(S

on the second floor of the source's home and that both were

pertinent information concerning(ACEVEDO. He advised onlyCS"

that the two sisters had moved in 1976 to an apartment in

Boringuen Towers in Santurce, Puerto. Rico, and that NENA

currently works at Colegio Puertoricano de Ninos and that

the

sister

vorks at Ramirez Comercial.

source stated that

in 1964 NENA was in some way affiliated with Alpha 65.CS"

SECRET

Pagid: 32713056

a Page

13

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of. 1992 (44. USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: - 11-14-2017

SJ

11

65-511 (5)

SECRET

source advised thabat this point, CARLOS gave hims

$2,000 for his services and expenses and stated that in

1977 he would have more money for nim.

He was CS.3

advised that on August 11, 1977J the new individual wouldeS

be coming to see(the source.'

The source was told that the

CuIs is very happy with the work that he is doing.

the source advised that helieft the group of cuis CS]

Agentsssitting at the table in the restaurant and went

directs to nie hotel and to the not meet man te

Puerto Rcig,

and arrived CS

source seen termination of the above interview, sami

that they have tried him in the last six months to see if he was

honest with them.

He added that he did not think the CUIS had very

up-to-date or good information concerning the Cuban exiles in the

United States.

source stated that Jan example of this is the greats

appreciation the CUIS has for receiving copies of "Replica"

magazine which is so easily purchased in the United States and

Puerto Rico.

SECRET

ResId: 32313056

•Pad

---

