# docid-32424980

## Page 1

Date: 07/14/98

Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : JCS

RECORD NUMBER

: 202-10001-10249

RECORDS SERIES : JFK LIBRARY SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: DOC 250

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:NW 54214 Date:

09-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : JCS

FROM

TO

TITLE : READINESS POSTURE REQUIREMENTS

DATE : 11/28/62

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS: CUBA PLANNING

DOCUMENT TYPE : MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION: TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1C

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/09/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : bracketed portions withheld by Joint Staff.

completed by OSD, CIA and State.

Review

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

MAR

2016

DATE:

[R]

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 54214

DocId: 32424980

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PAGE THREE RUEPCR 225

LEVELS HAVE IMPOSED.

4. IN RECOGNITION OF THESE FACTS, THE JOINT CHIEFS OF

STAFF CONSIDER THE FOLLOWING ALERT POSTURE CRITERIA TO BE

APPROPRIATE AT THIS TIME, WITH FURTHER REDUCTION TO

NORMAL PRE-CUBA POSTURE PRIOR TO CHRISTMAS CONTINGENT ON

ACTUAL SOVIET WITHDRAWAL OF IL-28 AIRCRAFT FROM CUBA:

A. OVERFLIGHT RECONNAISSANCE:

(1) HIGH-LEVEL$

ALERT POSTURE WHICH WILL PERMIT

AN AVERAGE OF TWO U-2 FLIGHTS PER DAY CUMULATIVE FROM

21 NOV, AND NOT MORE THAN A MAXIMUM OF FIVE U-2

FLIGHTS ON ANY ONE DAY.

(2) LOW-LEVEL: FOUR AIRCRAFT ON 12-HIOUR ALERT

AND EIGHT AIRCRAFT ON 24-HOUR ALERT, AND SIMILAR

READINESS FOR ALL AIRCRAFT WHICH SUPPORT THE FORE-

OING RECONNAISSANCE MISSI § CITE FIGHTER ESCORTS E

CAP, SAR, ELINI, ETC. >.

B. LOCAL REPRISAL STRIKE AIRCRAFT: 24 HOURS FOLLOW-

ING A DECISION TO EXECUTE A REPRISAL.

C. REIMPOSITION OF THE QUARANTINE OF CUBA:

72

HOURS.

CFN 4 IL-28 (1) U-2 21 U-2 (2) 12 24 24 72

34214

Do01d:32424980

Page

2

[A]

---

## Page 3

6(D(C)

PAGE FOUR RUEPCR 225

Do ATTACK ON SAM SITES, IL-28S, AND/OR ALL AIR DE-

FENSES IN CUBA:.. 48 HOURS

E. EXECUTION OF CINCLANT OPLAN 312-623

72 HOURS

F. EXECUTION OF CINCLANT OPLAN 316-623

18 DAYS•

G. AIR DEFENSE: RESUME NORMAL POSTURE EXCEPT FOR

THOSE UNITS WHICH MAY BE NEEDED TO INCREASE THE AIR

DEFENSE OF THE SOUTHEASTERN UNITED STATES ON A PERMA-

NEMT BASIS. LONG-TERM AIR DEFENSE NEEDS FOR THIS

REGION ARE UNDER STUDY•

H. STRATEGIC FORCES: MAINTENANCE OF NORMAL ALERT

[A]

LEVELS.

5. RELAXATION OF READINESS POSTURE TO THE FOREGOING

LEVELS WILL PERMIT THE FOLLOWING ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN AT

THIS TIME:

A. CINCLANT AND COMPONENT HEADQUARTERS: CINCLANT

AND THE COMPONENT COMMANDERS WILL MAINTAIN THE PRESENT-

LY ACTIVATED COMMUNICATIONS NET. CINCARLANT AND

CINCAFLANT HEADQUARTERS ELEMENTS CAN BE RETURNED TO

HOME STATIONS EXCEPT FOR REDUCED STAFFS MAINTAINED AT

HOMESTEAD.

CFN IL-28S 48 312-62 72 312-62 18 5

54214

DocId: 32424980

Page 3

---

