# docid-32297513

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/30/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10219-10289

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3267-261

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

07/19/1962

3

JRO, ASSOC, SGI, JCEX, B/F INT, INCOME TAX, GAMBLING

ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32297513

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

PAGE TWO

NINETEEN FIFTY EIGHT. ON SEVEN DASH SEVENTEEN LAST

DEPOSITED ONE THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED DOLLARS WHICH IS PROBABLY

REPAYMENT TO HIM OF FUNDS HE HAD ON DEPOSIT WITH THOMAS

JAY WINSTON CO AND WHICH WERE TO BE RETURNED TO HIM.

JULY EIGHTEEN NINETEEN, SIXTY TWO LA FOUR TWO SIX EIGHT DASH C SAW

• ROSELLI ENTER FRIARS CLUB, BEVERLY HILLS ABOUT FOUR P. M. ALONE.

ROSELLI RAYXXX PLAYED GIN WITH RALPH MARKS BELIEVED TO BE ATTORNEY.

AND TALKED WITH HIS NEIGHBOR, JOE LEVINSON, REPORTEDLY A

BOOKMAKER. ROSELLI WAS DRINKING WHICH HE INFREQUENTLY

DOES WHILE AT CLUB AND BECAME VERY FRIENDLY WITH INFORMANT."

LEVINSON

ASKED ROSELLI QUOTE WHAT DO YOU HEAR, FROM JOE UNQUOTE.

ROSELLI REPLIED QUOTE NOT IN TOWN HE-S ON THE DESTROYER UNQUOTE.

•SIGNIFICANCE ABOVE NOT KNOWN BY INFORMANT. ROSELLI LOST

TWO HUNDRED AND FORTY DOLLARS IN GAME WITH MARKS THEN

HAD JONIE TAPS, CHIÇAGO ENTERTAINER, SIT IN GAME FOR

ROSELLI. TAPS WON TWO HUNDRED AND FORTY DOLLARS PLUS

• ADDITIONAL EIGHTY FIVE FROM MARKS AND GAVE ALL TO

ROSELLI. IRVING LEFF SAT AT NEXT TABLE AND ROSELLI, DEMANDED

FOUR HUNDRED AND SEVENTY ONE DOLLARS FROM LEFF APPARENTLY

DUE TO GAMBLING DEBT. LEFF SAID HE DID NOT HAVE MONEY

AND TOOK CURRENCY AND COIN FROM POCKETS AS EVIDENCE. AMONG

CASH WAS NINE HUNDRED DOLLARS CHECK LEFF RECEIVED AS

GAMBLING WINNINGS FROM HARRY KARL, LOCAL SHOE MANUFACTURER

END PAGE TWO

DocId: 32297513 Page 2

---

