# docid-32288363

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10199-10139

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-185

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/14/1961

3

GAL, GAMBLING, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32288363

147

Page 1'

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAS OF INVESTIGALIUN

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APR 114/1961

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Mohr

Mr.

Belmont.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Delgac

Mr. Evarts

-Mr. Marone

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram.

Miss Gandy.

URGENT

4014-68

1-46 AM DFSL

TO DIRECTOR , FBI

92-3182

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 92-373

GUS ALEX, AKAO, AR. DAILY SUMMARY, CHICAGO NEWSPAPERS LAST

WEEK CARRIED

ARTICLES CONCERNING GAMBLING RAID WHICH WAS MADE ON A WIREROOM LOCATED

ON THE THIRD FLOOR OF A MAJOR CHICAGO OFFICE BUILDING LOCATED AT ONE

EIGHT ZERO NO WACKER DRIVE, CHICAGO. CONTACT WAS MADE EARLIER THIS WEEK

WITH CG SIX TWO SEVEN TWO DASH C WHO WAS VERY CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WHITH

THE GAMBLING ELEMENT IN THE LOOP AREA OF CHICAGO, AND HE ADVISED THAT

TO HIS KNOWLEDGE THIS WAS THE FIRST TIME IN MANY YEARS THAT THE CHICAGO

PD HAS CONDUCTED A RAID ON ONE OF THE HANDBOOKS UNDER THE CONTROL OF

GUS ALEX. HE NOTED THAT THE WIREROOM RAID BY POLICE WAS THE HEAD-

QUARTERS OF ALEX-S GAMBLING ORGANIZATION AS CONTROLLED FOR ALEX BY

LOUIS BRIATTA• AS THE BUREAU HAS PREVIOUSLY BEEN ADVISED, BRIATTA IS

KNOWN AS THE GAMING BOSS OF THE LOOP AND IS ONE OF ALEX-S FIRST LIEU-

TENANTS. HE HAS E

BEEN PREVIOUSLY INTERVIEWED SINCE THE INTENSIFICATT

OF THIS INVESTIGATION• CG SIX TWO SEVEN TWO DASH C ADVISED THAT THE

GAMBLING ELEMENT IN THE LOOP FEELS THAT THE CHICAGO PD MUST HAVE TAPPED

WIRES OR HAVE AN INFORMANT VERY CLOSE TETHE ALEX ORGANIZATION

IN

TO HAVE OBTAINED INFORMATION WHICH IS VERY CLOSELY GUARDED

THE LOCATION OF BRIATTA-S HEADQUARTERS ERE STATED THAD TUES INSIVES

CORECTION LINE FIVE LAST WORS SHID BE - WITH-

END PAGE ONE 66 APR TO961

DocId: 32288363 Page 2

---

## Page 3

(Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:

11-14-2017

PAGE THREE

FORMATION CONCERNING THE BACKGROUND OF GRASON OR WHETHER OR NOT

GRASON IS AN EMPLOYEE OF BRIATTA. LT. RIORDAN STATED THAT IT IS HIS

OPINION THAT THE BOOK RAIDED WAS JUST ANOTHER HANDBOOK AND THAT IT DID

NOT HAVE ANY PARTICULAR SIGNIFICANCE. HIS OFFICERS RECOVERED SOME EVI-

DENCE WITH THE ASSISTANCE OF THE U. SO COAST GUARD FROM THE CHICAGO

RIVER AND HE IS MAKING ARRANGEMENTS TO MAKE THIS EVIDENCE AVAILABLE

TO THIS OFFICE FOR PERUSAL. LT. RIORDAN INDICATED THAT INASMUCH AS HE

OBTAINED THE INFORMATION CONCERNING THE WIREROOM ONLY THROUGH A QUOTE

FLUKE UNQUOTE AND SINCE THEY RECOVERED NO INFORMATION WHICH COULD BE

USED AS A BASIS FOR UNCOVERING OTHER HANDBOOKS OR FOR CONNECTING ANY

PEOPLE WITH THIS PARTICUALAR HANDBOOK, HE DOES NOT INTEND TO CAUSE ANY

FURTHER INVESTIGATION OR RAIDS ON HANDBOOKS IN THE AREA CONTROLLED BY

BRIATTA FOR ALEX. IT CAN THEREFORE BE SAID THAT THE CONCERN BY CG SIX

TWO SEVEN TWO DASH C AND HANDBOOK OPERATORS IN THE FIRST WARD FOR FUTURE

ARRESTS IS NOT BASED ON PROBABILITY. THAT SUCH ARRESTS WILL BE FORTH-

COMING OR THAT THE CHICAGO PD IS CLOSE TO CLEARING UP GAMBLING OPER-

ATIONS IN THE FIRST WARD. ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

END ACK PLS

WA GO

DocId: 32288363 Page 3

---

