# docid-32300083

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10226-10363

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-266

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/19/1961

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SGI, TRA, LV, ASSOC, MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS, FISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32300083 Page 1

179

---

## Page 2

callonie

SUNl

1961

TRETYPE

Mr. Tolson-

Mr. Belmont_

Mr. Mohr-_-

Mr. Callahan..

Mr. Conrad....

Mr. Regelch.

Mr.

Mr. MashA

Mr.

Mr. Sullivan_

Mr. Tavcl

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram,

Miss Gandy_

URGEN

6-19-61

DATEY -20. 9 CLASSIFIET

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TERED IS U

8-19 PM CLM

TO /DIRECTOR, FBI 182-3171/

BY SP5006/

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-349/ 2P

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

LAS VEGAS AND NEW YORK COMMUNICATIONS HAVE INDICATED THE POSSIBILITY

OF A GRANCANA VISIT TO LAS VEGAS TO BE IN CONTACT WITH PHYLLIS

PHYSICAL SURVEILLANCES

GUIDE. i FASURES AT O/HARE AIRPORT LAST WEEK AND ON JUNE SEVENTEEN

SIXTY

ON OUTGOING FLIGHTS TO LAS VEGAS, DID NOT REVEAL THE

PRESENCE OF GIANCANA. D. E. STEPHENS, VILLAGE PRESIDENT, ROSEMONT,

ILLE PARÉN PROTECT IDENTITY END PAREN ADVISED THAT GIANÇANA HAS

BEEN OBSERVED BY HIM HOLDING LUNCHEON MEETINGS AT THE THUNDERBOLT

MOTEL ON NUMEROUS OCCASIONS DURING PAST THREE WEEKS. LAST OBSERVED

AT THE MOTEL DURING MIDDLE OF LAST WEEK, ACCOMPANIED BY ANTHONY J. €

HIS VILLAGE, AND SAID HE HAS PLACED STOP WITH MIDDLE STATES TELEPHONE

CO. TO BE ALERTED IN THE EVENT ANY UNUSUAL ACTIVITY TAKES PLACE THERE.

END. PAGE ONE

V

55 WADE 100711

9-

NW 45792 DocId: 32300083 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

REFERRING AGAIN TO THE THUNDERBOLT MOTEL, STEPHENS RELATED THAT THE

THUNDERBOLT DEFINITELY PLANS THE ADDITION OF FORTY EIGHT ROOMS.

HE SAID THAT ON PRACTICALLY EVERY OCCASION. THAT HE HAS OBSERVED

GIANCANA, HE HAS BEEN ACCOMPANIED BY HIS BROTHER, JOSEPH QUOTE

FEPE END QUOTE GIANCANA, EXCEPT ONE, WHEN HE WAS ACCOMPANIED BY

QUOTE A GORGEOUS BLONDE END QUOTE. CHARLES GIANCANA CONTACTED

THIS DATE, ADVISED HE HAS NOT SEEN GIANCANA RECENTLY. PCI|

ADVISED THIS DATE THAT GIANCANA WAS SEEN AT THE ARMORY LOUNGE

ON TWO OCCASIONS LAST WEEK, ACCOMPANIED BY AN UNKNOWN FEMALE, FURNISHED

THE LICENSE NUMBER OF THE VEHICLE, WHICH IS BEING CHECKED OUT.

CARMEN FANELLI, OWNER, ARMORY LOUNGE, SURVEILLED THIS DATE TO ARLINGTON

PARK RACE TRACK, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS WIFE. FANELLI PARKED HIS VEHICLE,

TOOK KEYS WITH HIM. ATTEMPT MADE THIS DATE TO CONTACT CHARLES

BARON, WHOM LAS VEGAS ADVISED IS PRESENTLY IN CHICAGO. AGENTS WERE

ADVISED BARON IS NOT YET IN, EXPECTED SHORTLY. INVESTIGATION CONTINUING.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

END

OTHER 4

ie

NW 45792 DocId: 32300083 Page 3

---

