# docid-32286337

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10113

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-1737, 1738

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE : 08/22/1965

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

4

SGI; ASSOC, REL, TRA, ARREST, PDT, POLIT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC TTY, NOTE

19.1.

DocId: 32286337

25

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Retörds Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Mote).

d11

TO:

FROM:

PM CDST DEFERRI

DIRECTOR (92-3171)

8-23-65 AAA

Mr. Tolson_

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr-

CHICAGO (92-349)

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA. AR.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S.

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG 2 3 1965

TELETYPE

ливи

REE 69

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Con d

Mr. Felt

Mr. Gale 1

Mr. Rosen...

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter-

MV.

Tele. Room..

RE CHICAGO TEL AUGUST TWENTYTWO LAST CONCERNING REPORTED

Miss Holmes_

Miss Gandy_

AN ARREST OF ANTHONY ESPOSITO, CHARLEST NICOSIA, PAIYMARCY AND.

ANTHONY.

ATISCI BY ST. LOUIS POLICE DEPT., AUGUST TWENTY LAST. U

•ST. LOUIS DIVISION ADVISED INTELLIGENCE UNIT, ST. LOUIS PD,

RECEIVED, INFO ESPOSITO USING ONE HUNDRED DOLLAR A DAY PRESIDENTIAL

SUITE, CHASE HOTEL, ST. LOUIS, WHICH SUITE BILLED TO STEPHEN P.

GORMAN BRICK CO. DUE TO EXPENSES INCURRED AND SUSPICIOUS CIRCUM-

STANCES, ST. LOUIS PD ATTEMPTED TO INTERVIEW ESPOSITO IN HOTEL SUITE

AND FOUND HIM TO BE IN COMPANY OF NICOSIA, MARCY AND TISCI. GROUP

CALLED IN FOR QUESTIONING AND NO ARRESTS MADE. DURING INTERVIEW ALL

CLAIMED TO HAVE ATTENDED STATE FAIR, SPRINGFIELD, PREVIOUS NIGHT

AND TRAVELLED TO ST. LOUIS FOR DINNER U

CG SIX FOUR NINE EIGHT - C- TE ADVISED TODAY THAT PURPOSE OF

TRAVEL OF ABOVE GROUP WAS TO ATTEND GOVERNOR'S DAY AT STATE FAIR IN

SPRINGFIELD. AS IS ANNUAL CUSTOM GROUP THEN TRAVELLED TO ST. LOUIS

TO CABARET INASMUCH AS MORE PLEASURES AVAILABLE ST. LOUIS THAN

SPRINGFIELD.

INFORMANT CERTAIN TRAVEL WAS FOR PLEASURE ONLY. U

AM COPIE SPRINGFIELDS, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY. U

END

IP 53

9 00 11.02

REC- 69

73-3171-1738

WA . •LRA

FBI

WASH

P

AAL

INFORMA

NTAINED

ASSIFIED

EXCEPT VIVERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

14 A48 125 1965AMSATION CONTAINEO

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 4-24-84 BI55R56/.

DocId: 32286337

Page 2

---

