# docid-32316483

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/25/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10348-10012

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 92-7000-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

09/23/1964

PAGES:

29

SUBJECTS :

ANTHONY PROVENZANO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

N₩ 45927

DocId: 32316483

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

FD-*33 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

CRIMINAL INFLUENCE IN LOCAL

INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD

OF TEAMSTERS,..

NEW YORK, NEW

YORK

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

9/23/64

6/26-9/17/64

REPORT MADE BY

SA RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

Teamsters Union

TYPED BY

pb

REFERENCE

Report of SA RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN dated

6/30/64 at New York.

- P-

ENCLOSURES:

TO BUREAU (2) :

Enclosed for the Bureau is the original and one copy

of the LHM, dated and captioned as above, reflecting a charader-

izationsof informants utilized in this report.

APPROVED

COPIES MADES

I region

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau (92-7000) (#nets.z)

2

USA, SDNY

3 - New York (92-2988):

.CC, AAG, Criminal Division,

Organized Crime && Racketeering Section

Room

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATT

SD REPORT

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. ...

HOw FWD..

BY.:

31/

(61. 001

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-700 0-7

REC- 34

EX114

NOTATIONS

U.S. COVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

16-76324-1

NW 45927 DocId:32316483 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-2988

ADMINISTRATIVE: (CONT' D)

Detectives GERALD LANGTON and JAMES FALLACE,

Central Intelligence Bureau (CIB), NYCPD, who are

contacted on a continuing basis as they investigate

criminal violations of labor matters, were contacted

during August and September, 1964.

They advised that nothing new has been learned

of the affairs of Local 707 due to their Bureau being placed

on full time investigation of racial problems in the New

York City area.

LANGTON stated that it is hoped that these matters

will be ended shortly and they can resume their duties of

investigating labor matters.

FALLACE advised that the slates of various groups

should be appearing by September, in preparation for the fall

elections this year:

They

advised that they will be in touch with SA

SULLIVAN upon their resumption of their regular duties.

The following informants were contacted during

July and August, 1964, and could provide no current pertinent

Information of the affairs of Local 707 or its officials:

PCI

7/21/64

CSNY 4519-C

7/16/64 - 9/1/64

PCI

7/28/64

8/26/64

PCI

7/20/64 - 8/25/64

Regarding the attempts to Interview SALVATORE

D'EORIO as set out in the details of this report, D'EORIO

was telephonically contacted on two of these occasions and

appear as was arranged in each instance.

Additional attempts

knowledge which would be valuable to this investigation.

OTHER 4

-C -

COVER PAGE

NNH 45927 DocId: 32316483

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-2988

ADMINISTRATIVE : (CONT' D)

It will be noted that NY 4318-C, who is NY I-l

in the details of this report, is a close friend of FRANK

CONNOLLY, former official of Local 707 and mentioned also

in the details of this report.

NY 4318-C is endeavoring to persuade CONNOLLY to

cooperate with the FBI in bringing to light shakedowns and

other matters relative to Local 707.

In a meeting between the informant and CONNOLLY

during July, 1964, CONNOLLY indicated a desire to cooperate

with the FBI, but several confusing issues concerning control

of the union have arisen and he (CONNOLLY) did not desire to

talk to anyone just yet.

This matter is being followed closely with the

informant so that CONNOLLY will be interviewed at the most

advantageous time in an attempt to obtain his fullest

cooperation.

- D -

COVER

PAGE

HW

45927

DocId: 32316483

Page

4

---

## Page 5

• i

NY 92-2988

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY T-1

NY C

NY T-2

BACS-2

NY T-3

CHARLIE BROWNING

Manager, Intermountain

Telephone Co., Kingsport,

NY T-4

HUGH SHERIDAN

NY Trucking Authority

141 Broadway, NYC

NY T-5

PCI

NY T-6

Commissioner JACK RYAN

(former SA)

NY State Liquor Authority

270 Broadway, NYC

NY I-T

ANTHONY CIBORSKI

Senior Investigator

Waterfront Commission

of NY Harbor

15 Park Row, NYC

Contacting Agent

SA WILLIAM A. VERICKER

SA MYRON C. METCALF

OTHER 4

SA RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN

SA RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN

SA RUSSEL F. SULLIVAN

SA GERALD P. REIDY

-E -

COVER

PAGE

NH 45927 DocId:32316483 Page 5

---

