# docid-32310374

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/6/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10302-10318

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

63-7112-22, 23

Released under

the John

f. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 45827 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MCGAHAN, NICHOLAS JR.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

12/19/1961

PAGES:

• 105

SUBJECTS :

RK, ASSOC, ARREST RECORD, B/F INT, RCK, RACK, P/P

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/12/1998/

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE; APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES 1a, 1b, INC A/T

v9.1

HH 45827

DocId: 32310374

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

1/12/62

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (63-7112)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (62-5112)

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; ET AL

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION

CONCERNING (ACCOUNTING AND

FRAUD SECTION)

00: Los Angeles

Re: Report of SA NICHOLAS MC GAHAN, JR., 12/19/61

at Los Angeles

Bureau letter to Los Angeles, 12/21/61

Los Angeles letter to Bureau, 12/26/61

Los Angeles airtel to San Francisco, 1/4/62.

It is felt by the Los Angeles Division that

interviews with SCHEIB and KAVNER should only be con-

ducted after all of the allegations in this matter have

been investigated. It is noted that LA 4350 advised

that KAVNER is shrewd, and probably got money to pay

off his loan at the Erie Bank through a mortgage on

his house or another loan, and is probably paying ofi

the indebtedness incurred in this latter financing with

money he obtained out of the SCHEIB deal.

The St. Louis

Division is presently conducting investigation on this

phase of the allegation regarding any loans on KAVNER's

property, although it has been previously reported that

KAVNER paid off the loan with part of the stock he put

up as collateral. To date, the Los Angeles Division has

not been able to

show that KAVNER put up any stock as

collateral for a loan which had not previously belonged

to him.

3 - Bureau

1 - San Francisco (62-4679) (Info)

1 - St.

Louis (62-4193) (Info)

1 - Los Angeles

90 18 63-7112-23

NM: gCW

(6).

EX-105.

192

• JAN 15 1962

ADOVAN 3019621

Speckal Agent in Charge

Sent

_M

Per

• NH 45827 DooId:32310374 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 62-5111

The alleged flight by KAVNER and SCHEIB to

San Francisco will only be able to be verified upon inter-

view with SCHEIB and through the cooperation of SCHEIB

to make his records available.

ANTHONY DORIA's financial situation during the

past year does not appear to be one of grandeur, althougi

any "payoff" made to him on the SCHEIB deal could have

come aiter the foreclosure proceedings on his house.

Mortgage payments being made by NICK NARDI on the property

formerly in DORIA's name are being traced at this time.

It has been ascertained that the transfer of

SCHEIB workers from Local ooo, International Workers

Federation of Labor, as their bargaining agent, to Teamsters

Local 495, took place as of 9/1/61 through interviews with

SCHEIB employees and former employees.

were aware of this transfer, even though they may have been

ment 1a the mate.

These employees

ignorant as to their rights in the matter.

The "TONY" as mentioned by LA 4350, has been

Identified as COSMO ANTHONY TUCCELLI, the night bartender

at Delmonico's Restaurant, which is owned by SCHEIB.

TUCCELLI could be Involved as a middleman in payoffs by

SCHEIB to KAVNER, but It has previously been reported

that SCHEIB knew DORIA as far back as 1954; therefore, 1t

1s unlikely SCHEIB got Involved with DORIA through TUCCELLI.

EARL SCHEIB's personal and business bank accounts,

alleged dealings, and is attempting to ascertain a connection

between SCHEIB and TUCCELLI regarding the current allegations.

Alsogugh, it Is felt that investigative results obtained from

contemplated techniques to be used in Los Angeles file

case to a logical conclusion.

the Department of Labor is

audit will be made available to the Los Angeles Division.

-2

45827 DocId: 32310374 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA 62-5111

Information contained on enclosed letterhead

memorandum dated 11/16/61 was obtained from

no south obey on bout an on 19200 6,170 e,

by SA'S NICHOLAS MC GAHAN, JI. (A) and C. KENNETH ARNOLD,

JI. (A) •

Information contained on enclosed letterhead

memorandum dated 11/29/61 was obtained by SA's JOHN ROBERT

BARRON and NICHOLAS MC GAHAN, JI. (A) from Mrs. VIOLA

CLEO FULLER (neighborhood source), Libbett and Hayvenhurst,

Encino, California, who requested that her name. be

held confidential.

Information contained on enclosed letterhead

memorandum dated 12/7/61 was obtained by SA's BARRON

and MC GAHAN from MARTIN LENCER, Goldwyn Studios, 1041

North Formosa, Hollywood, California, telephone HO 9-5400.

home OL 4-1919, who requested his name be held in the very

strictest of confidence because of his former close

acquaintanceship with ANTHONY DORIA.

A ARO DORTA

Through a pretext telephone call on 11/29/61

to EILEEN BARBARA COX, the following information was

obtained pertaining to her:

Aliases:

Address:

Former Address:

Date of Birth:

Place of Birth:

Hair:

Social Security No.:

BABS COX, BARBARA ECKER,

Mrs. GORDON ECKER

3740 Berry Drive, North

Hollywood, California,

PO 9-2828

4550 Hayvenhurst Avenue,

Encino, California

June 3,

1920

Sweetwater, Texas

Red

552-09-9925

COVER PAGE

| HH 45827

DooId: 32310374

Page 4

---

