# docid-32311407

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/14/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10314-10010

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 100-12632-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: MX

TITLE:

DATE: 04/30/1964

'PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES SMALL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: CABLEGRAM

v9.1

DocId: 32311407

8

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the Tolt F. Keriety

Assassination Recorus collection Act or

1992 774 1031

DATE: 11-14-2017

1 - Mr. Stokes

430-04

CODE

CABLEGRAM

INFORMATION CIVINED

CASSIFIED

SHOWN

EIN 1

Tolson

Belmont.

Mohr

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans

Gale

Rosen

JFK

TO LEGAL ATTACHE MEXICO

(105-3702)

4/5,931

Classifiad/by 2803102/sel

Declassif on: DADR Stre

or RelAta

FROM DIRECTOR DEI

(105-82555)

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, IS - R - CUBA. REUR LETTERHEAD APRIL

TWENTY TIREE LAST DEALING

FART NIZE REVELATIONS OTEX (U)

FIGHTEEN AND MEY NINETEE

CHARLES SMALL WHICH WAS REVRITTEY

AT BUREAU TO FURTHER PROTECT SOURCES AND COPY OF WHICH HAS BEEN

FURNISHED TU YOU.

DESPITE THE OBJECTIONS VOICED IN YOUR APRIL NINE AIRTEL

TO INTRAVIEN OF SMALL BY MEXICAN OR AMERICAN OFFICIALS, IT IS

POSSIBLE THAT COMMISSION MAY DESIRE SMALL BẺ INTERVIEVED.

CAREFULLY CONSIDER THIS AND SUMIT YOUR OPINION AS TO BEST

NANNER IN WHICH SUCH INTERVIEY COULD BE HANDLED CONSISTENT WITH

PROTECTUNG YOUR SOURCES. IN VIDY OF COMMENTS OF YOUR SOURCES

AS SET FOOT IN RE LETTERHEAD, IT IS DESIRE THAT YOU REVIEN YOUR

FILE ON SILL AND CHECK RECURDS MEXICAN PRIATION SERVICE

TO DETERINE SMALL'S ALIEN STATUS IN MEXICO AND TO DEVELOP

SPECIFIC INFORMATION AS TO DATE KE DEPARTED NEW YORK IN E

-7.?

SEPTEMBER, SIXTY THREE, AND DITE IE RETURNED TO FIENT

• 1 1964

IN ADDITION, THROUGE

NEX. EICHTEEN, MEX NINETEN IND OTHER CUL

AVAILABLE S

VIA

CABLEGRAM TO,

EAT TO DEVELOP FURTHER SPECIFICS RE

(4)

9.00011

100-12630-9

APR 3 0 1964

NOT RECORDED NO

I - Foreign Liaison Unit

/Route thru

1964

tru for review)

NOTE PAGE 2

12Aa-

DoeId: 32311407

Page 2

ORIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 3

Released under. the John F. Fernedy Assassinatim, Records Collection A

DATE: 11-14-2017

TE: 199

USE

CABLEGRAM TO MEXICO

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

105-82555

THE NATURE OF THE ASSISTANCE SMALL GIVES TO THE AVERICAN

COMINISTS WHO, WHEN VISITING MEXICO, APPEAR AT HIS PLACE OF

BUSINESS. IN CONNECTION WITH YOUR SURVEY OF KEY INFORMANTS

CONCERNING OSNALD REFERRED TO IN YOUR CABLE NUMBER FIVE EIGHT ONE

SET FORTH IN LETTERHEAD RE SMALL TILE NUMBER OF SOURCES WHO COULD

FURNISE NO INFORMATION TO INDICATE THAT OSWALD EVER APPEARED AT

SMALL'S STORE. HANDLE IMMEDIATELY.

NR.

69

ENC. -

ти

NOTE:

CK.

APPROVED BY BAL

*Mex 18 and Mex 1%are part of a groupror & individuals in

Mexico City active in comminist circles and in affairs of FPOC.

One of these individuals is Charles Smali who, in December and

January, told the informants that he was worried abcut possible

harassment by Mexicon police as he considered it possible Oswald

nay have visited his jewelry store when in Mexico. No into has

been developed to establish that such was the case and

not indicated to sources that he, in fact, knew or met Oswald.

Small claimed to sources that he was out of Mexico during Oswald's

trip to Mexico City; however,

the sources report that small returned

nar she vetered

¿o Mexico,

exact date not state, e, ior

io the

reportedly left Mexiço.

In view of Connission's intense interest

in identifying all places visited by Oswald in Mexico city.

we

regard it as likely they will ask that Smald be interviewed.

Legat's 4-9 airtel recommended against this as interviewing

about Oswald and a possible visit to Small's store would point to

the informants as sources. Furthermore, Small has heart condition.

Believed advisable to alert legat to possibility of request for

interview of Small and to have him thinking as to best means to

Requested inquiry if negative and if we can

that Small's fear of Mexican police harassment was part of the

general concern to members of the American communist group in

Mexico after reading that Oswald had been in Mexico.

DoeId: 32311407 Page 3

---

