# docid-32329163

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90085-10044

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 162-147-2

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45873 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 08/22/1961

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

ALBERT MEADOWS

MARTIN BUSTER LOICANO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HH 45873

11

DocId: 32329163

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• DL 162-8

this lottery:

(This possibly could be GARNETT FAIN, formerly

a bell man at the LaSands Motel, Bossier City, La. who is an

associate of JIMMY ANDERSON in Fort Worth. GARNETT FAIN iS a

former PCI of the Dallas Division.)

CHICAGO DIVISION

Will conduct investigation similar to that set out

for New Orleans.

BUFFALO DIVISION

Will conduct similar investigation to that set out

at New Orleans.

HOUSTON DIVISION

AT CORPUS CHRISTI, TEXAS

Will conduct similar investigation as set out for

New Orleans.

NEW YORK DIVISION

Will conduct

similar investigation to that set out

at New Orleans.

DENVER DIVISION

Check sources of All American Sports Service, 14th

Floor, D'& F Tower, 16th and Arapahoe Streets for any informa-

tion concerning LOICANO or the Big State Coin Machine Co.

subscribing to any service of the All American Sports Service.

Will furnish Dallas with background information on the All

American Sports Service and whether they have a ticker tape.

DALLAS DIVISION

AT FORT WORTH, TEXAS

1.

Will interview CHESLEY AUTEN, DPS Intelligence

Agent regarding

any information contained in his reports

concerning LOICANO.

2.

Will locate GARNETT FAIN, former PCI, for any

information he will supply concerning LolCaNO.

-B-

COVER PAGE

NW 45873

DooId: 32329163

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 162-8

15.*

Will determine the identities of the owners of

the license numbers developed on spot check surveillances

of LOICANO's place of business on 5/3,15/61.

16.*

Will interview Mrs. LAURA COOLEY, 2403 E. Lancascer

Street, Cooley Realty Company, regarding possible connection

between Big State Enterprises

and Big State Coin Machine

Company.

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

Will attempt through sources and informants

to determine how close a connection LOICANO has with

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO.

2.*

Will contact Republic National Bank noting

inquiry was received by them concerning BUSTER LOICANO

being in Phoenix, Arizona.

Will identify PERCY RAMBO, Dallas gambler and

obtain background information concerning his connections

and associates..

ADMINISTRATIVE

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

Informants and their identifying T symbols are as

follows:

T-2 1s JO ANN SHAW, PCI, Dallas Division, who is

being referred to in this report as a male to further

conceal her identity.

T-13 15 JAMES DePRATO, Special Agent, Intelligence

Division, Internal Revenue Service, Fort Worth, Texas.

T-14 is LARRY SCOTT, Special Agent, Intelligence

Division,

IRs, Fort Worth, Texas.

T-15 is GENE MOORE, former PCI, Dallas Division and

Fort Worth City Councilman.

T-22 is DL-28-C.

T-23 is KENT BIFFLE, Reporter for the Fort Worth

Press newspaper.

DRS

-D

REVIEWED BY BOVJFK TASK FORCE.

COVER PAGE

ON

7/2158 d

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

74 45873

DooId: 32329163 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 162-8

JEK Law 11(a)

T-13 stated he learned that

BAKER had purchased a

Federal gambling stamp in 1960.

Confidential Informant Dallas T-22 advised SA JOSEPH

M. MYERS on August 7, 1961 that he knew that RAYMOND Bo

BAKER

handled football cards

in 1960 and had also

handled these

same types of football cards in 1958 and 1959.

T-22 stated

that he had made telephone calls himself to JE 6-8874 and

JE 6-8183

to place bets on football games. T-22 stated that

when he made the telephone calls nearly always T. A. AVARELLO

SR. would take his bet and that if he won I. A. AVARELLO, SR.

would come to I-22's place of business to pay him off in cash

and likewise would come by I-22's place of business to pick up

the money if he lost. I-22 further stated that apparently

AVARELLO has been connected with BUSTER LOICANO for sometime

in handling the football cards.

T-22 stated another person who

was running the cards and had a number of runners working for

him was POWELL HANCOCK.

T-22 stated HANCOCK, along with HOWARD

LEE, LOICANO's brother-in-law, operated what

was known as the

central office for the football cards.

T-22 stated the operation

worked like this: The runners would put the cards into circula

tion about Monday or Tuesday before the football game was played

on the following Saturday. The runners would pick up the cards

1:*

either late Friday afternoon or early Saturday morning and would

take the football cards along with the money to the central

vuen office prior to game time. This central office, according to

T-22, was moved several times during the football season to

prevent anyone knowing where it was located. T-22 added that some

of these persons, such as HANCOCK and BAKER, had a number of

runners who operated at the large Convair Aircraft Plant which

-8-

NW 45873 DooId: 32329163 Page 4

---

