# docid-32977087

## Page 1

Date

Page

:

2

07/14/98

1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

NSC

145-10001-10264

85

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

444 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NT 54214

Date:

10-04=2017---

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE-FBI

FROM

TO

TITLE : TRAINING OF NEGROS IN CUBA

DATE

: 11/03/67

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1B. IC

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 02/17/98

LE AGED WITH DELETTONS

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

HH 54214

DocId: 32977087

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Reply, fYnase Kefer 80

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDFRAL BUKEAU

OF INVESTICATION

WASHINCTON, D.G. 20535

November 3, 1967

TRAINING OF NEGROES IN CUBA

This Bureau is in receipt of a copy of a Central

Intelligence Agency (CIA) communication dated October 31,

1967, regarding the training of Negroes in Cuba. The original

of the communication was addressed to the Honorable lalt W.

RoStow, Special Assistant to the President.

Information is contained therein to the effect that

three Cuban sources during the past four nonths. have reported

the existence of a training school near Santiago de Cuba where

from 100 to 150 young men are being groomed for subversive

operations against the United States to include sabotage in

connection with race riots directed at bringing about a Negro

revolution in this country.

One source reported that the

training includes courses

in English, taught by Soviet

instructors.

While two of the CIA sources described the

students as

Negroes, there was no indication that any of the

Negro students were

from the United States. The third CIA

source described them as young men from North Vietnam,

North Korea, Africa, and Latin-American countries.

Information in the possession of this bureau indicates

that the above-described training school may well be an outgrowth

of the Tri-Continental Conference, held in Havana, Cuba, in

January, 1966, the declared purpose of which was

organizing

guerrilla warfare in ASia, Africa and Latin America. During the

year following the conference this Bureau received continuing

reports that the Cubans were endeavoring to implement the aims

of the conference.

Siace Castro first came to power in Cuba

1a 1959, we have been alert to his possible use of refugee

channels

to infiltrate agents and saboteurs and have initiated

appropriate investigative steps to detect this. In January, 1967,

an additional progiam was instituted aimed at detecting Cuban-

trained agents and saboteurs entering the United States through

legitimate Cuban refugee channels. Such refugees have been arriving

1n Miami since Decenber, 1965, at the rate of approximately

*,000 each month. LIn the ten months since our Cuban refugee

instituted, over 1,700 cases lave been opened

based upon inforna=ion in the backgrounds of various refugees

pointing toward a potential or propensity on their parts to

16

undertake intelligence, sabotage, or other subversive missions

on behalf of the Cuban

Goveinment.

Currently, these cases are

being opened at a rate of nuout 200 a month.

SECRET

Group y

Excluded from automatic

donating and

doelassification

FRey

85

1N 54214 Do010:32977087 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TRAINING OF NEGROES IN CUBA

During late July and early August, 1967, a Latin-

American Solidarity Organization (LASO) conference was held in

Havana, at which the Cubans indicated that they were continuing

their efforts to implement the declared aims of the Tri-

Continental Conference.

Numerous resolutions were promulgated

at the conclusion of the LASO conference, one of which exhorted

North American Negroes 'to respond to the racist violence of

the imperialist United States Government with an increase in

direct revolutionary action.". Itie Anerican press and other news

media extensively reported on the presence of Stokely Carmichael,

foremost "black power" advocate of violence, in Cuba at the time

of the LASO conference, which began on July

31, 1967.

Since

that date all field offices of the FBI have been alerted to

Castro's obvious intention of infiltrating agents

• into this

country for the purposes of sabotage and influencing the black

nationalists and other subversive movements throughout the

United States.

Our Agents on a selective basis have briefed officials

of various local, county and state police agencies of the

problen posed by the possible use of minority groups in carrying

out sabotage on behalf of Cuba.

These officials have been

requested to alert their racial and security informants to

provide any clues which would aid the ferreting out of potential

saboteurs. In daily contacts with cooperative security

officials of plants handling key Government contracts, department

stores, supermarkets, and similar establishments employing

sizeable labor forces, our Agents have alerted such officials

to our interest in being expeditiously advised of data indicating

groups or individuals within their organizations are potential

tools for use by Castro in subverting the United States.

To date, no concrete evidence has been developed to

indicate that any

Cuban-trained saboteur has entered this

country since the widely publicized Cuban sabotage ring in

New York City was discovered and immobilized in 1962.

Neither

has any evidence been developed of clandestine entry of Cuban-

trained Negroes for any other purposes, including infiltratior

of the black nationalist movement. The fBI currently is

operating lo

Cuban-trained intelligence agents as double agents

or potentint double agents against the Cubans.

None of these

Cuban-trained intelligence agents have any information indicating

Castro has been successful to date in infiltrating Negrocs

for the purposes described above?

21,16

HH 54214 DocId:32977087 Page 3

---

