# docid-32302356

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10281-10076

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-224146-101

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

LEG, OT

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/28/1975

PAGES:

38

SUBJECTS :

MAB, ASSOC, CUBAN TRADE COMMISSION, MONTREAL,

CANADA, BOMBING

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

02/20/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC INTV, NOTE, NEWS ARTIC DTD 11/22/74, LTR

v0.1

DocId: 32302356

30

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Leased

under

the John F. Kenneds Assassination' Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Höte).

DATE 7AE14-2015

FBI

Date:

1-28-75

Transmit the following in

Via

2-11-75-16119

Airtel

(Type in plaintext or code)

VIA COURIER

(Priority)

SECRET

To:

Director,

FBI (105-221146)

ALL INPORMATION CONTAINED

HERE IN

From:

Legat,

ottzia (274-23) (P)

011126130

Subject:

UNSUBS. ;

BOMBING OF CUBAN TRADE COMMISSION

MONTREAL, CANADA, 4-4-72 CLASSIFIED DECISIONS F

IS - CUBA

BY DEPARIMANT REVIER C

LITEE (DRC)

Re Miami Airtel dated 12-30-744-1-84-RFl/en

7-30-84

Enclosed are the original and two copies of RCMP

letter dated 1-23-75, together with the three enclosures

thereto, no copies of which are being retained by the

Ottawa Office.

Due to pouch limitations, the Bureau us i

requested to make copies of the enclosures

to the RCMP's

letter and make same available to Miami (5

With regard to paragraph four of RCMP letter,

the RCMP wish to disseminate information from page two of

re Miami Airtel dealing

with the assessment of Rivero.

S

Please advise.(5)

practice.

1050178298 CRians."

EARLORDED CODY FIE

APTROPRTATA AGENCIES

4.

- Bureau (Enc.

S, ENGLESURE

1 cc - Foreign Liaison Unit Direct

1 cc - Miami (105-20541) (Enc. 1)

1 - OTT

JFB: jhc

(5)

SpS mACKSe.

8,8-94

#211,326

Classified by

Declassity on:

GADR 4/4/84

Charina let fel

Exempt fron

GDS, Category

Vass

Date of D

Rification Iu linse

9/30/77

ALT: INPORMATION CONTATNED

HERE ME UNGECSAFTED

RENE SHOWN

00E Ear SE

8105-229040-101

160 FE6

1975.

TET

AUTI

(5

DATE

Contes tade

178 ISG

' Antonio

Or poveou at TBIRd b

Кагона

MecA 0/2/62 equest

4860 Euro Hoe-227290)

Approved:

SECRETI

Sent.

-M Per -

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32302356 Page 2

---

## Page 3

et of 1992 144 USC 2107 Note

DATE:

91-14-201%

PLEASE ADDRESS

CORRESPONDENCE TÔ:

THE COMMISSIONER

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICÉ

OTTAWA, CANADA

KIA OR2

PRIÈRE D'ADRESSER LES

LETTRES COMME SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE

GENDARMERIE ROYALE

DU CANADA

OTTAWA, CANADA

K1A OR2

HEADQUARTERS

DIRECTION GÉNÉRALE

YOUR NO.

VOTRENO

OUR NO:

NOTRENO D 937-23781

January 23, 1975

SECR

E

Mr. Joseph A. Marion, JI.,

c/o United States Embassy

Dear Sir:

This is to acknowledge the receipt of your information

on file 174-23 of 14 January, 1975.

2.

Appended hereto for your information is some self-explanatory

material received from our External Affairs Department on this

subject. The material includes:

1) A Prensa Latina English translation of a Havana

interview with Carlos RIVERO Collado. This

document was obtained from the Embassy of the

Republic of Cuba in Ottawa.

2)

A note in Spanish from the Cuban Embassy in

Ottawa giving excerpts from that section of

the RIVERO Collado interview in which the

bombing of the Cuban Trade Office in Montreal

3)

"Torpedo") two Miami based Cuban exiles singled

out by RIVERO in his interview.

(An English

translation of this material follows.)

An article from the Cuban magazine Bohemia of

November 22 which summarizes an interview with

Carlos RIVERO Collado shortly after his arrival

in Cuba:

Further information as it may develop in this regard

will be provided to you.

For your information this material

has also been provided to the CIA.

Your permission is requested to disseminate to our

External Affairs Department the information, to be suitably

DocId: 32302356 Page 3

ENCLOSURE

105-224846-101

---

## Page 4

Released-under tite Tohy

DATE;

11-14-2017

Assas sire

Records Collection Aut of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

2 -

D 937-23781

paraphrased, that was provided this office on your file

174-23 on 14 January, 1975.

Yours truly,

DAlepanche for

H.C. Draper,

Deputy Director General (Ops.)

Security Service

bocId: 32302356

Page

+05-924144-101

---

## Page 5

Released uner the John

F Kennedy Assassination Recerts

Collection At 01 19

57aSC

210% Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017,

BY HAND

PLEASE ADDRESS

CORRESPONDENCE TO:

THE COMMISSIONER

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

OTTAWA,

CANADA

K1A OR2

PRIÈRE D'ADRESSER LES

LETTRES COMME SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE

GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANADA

OTTAWA, CANADA

KIA OR2

HEADQUARTERS

DIRECTION GÉNÉRALE

YOUR NO.

VOTRENO

OUR NO.

D

937-23791

NOTRENO

January 23, 1975

BSE

E 3

#r. Joseph A. Marion, Jr.,

c/o United States Enbassy

Dear Sir:

Appended hereto for your information is some self-explanatory

material roceived fron our Biternal Affairs Departnent on this

subject. The material includes:

1) A Prensa Latina English translation of a Havana

intervion with Carlos RIVERO Collado.:

This

document was obtained fron the Embassy of the

Republic of Cuba in Ottawa-

2)

A note in Spanish from the Cuban Embassy in

Ottawa giving excerpts from that section of

the RIVERO Collado interview in which the

bombing of the Cuban Trade Office in Montreal

in 1972 is mentioned, with brief blographical

sketches of Eduardo

• PA& and Rafacl PEREZ (allas

"Pospedo") two liani based Cuban exiles singled

out by RIVERO in his interview.

(An English

translation of this material follous.)

3)

An article from the Cuban magazine Bohenia of

November 22 which summarizes on interview with

Carlos RIVIRO Collado shortly alter his arrival

in Cuba.

3.

Further infornation as it may develop in this regard

will be provided to you-

For your

infornation this naterial

has also been provided to cho CIA.

4.

Your pernission is requested to disseninate to our

Ixternal Affairs Department the information, to be suitably

105-224144-101

DocId: 32302356 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released unter the lahn

DATE:

11-14-2017'

Ee Kennely ASsassination Records Collection Act of 1992 44-USe 210V-Hotel-

- 2 ÷

SISBET

D 937-23781

paraphrased,

174-23 on 14 January, 1975.

that was provided this office on your file

Yours truly,

Do Cler the for

H.C. Draper,

Deputy Diroctor General (Ops.)

Security Service

bacId: 32302356 Page 6

105-2249146-101

---

## Page 7

Released under the Toin I kennedy

Assassination Revords Collection Not oi 1992 711 05C 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-11-2017,

BY HAND

PLEASE AÖDRESS

CORRESPONDENCE TO:

THE COMMISSIONER

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

OTTAWA, CANADA

KIA ORZ

PRIÈRE D'ADRESSER LES

LETTRES COMME SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE

GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANADA

OTTAWA, CANADA

K1A OR2

HEADQUARTERS

DIRECTION GÉNÉRAL E

YOUR NO.

VOTRE NO

OUR NO.

D 937-23781

NOTRE NO

January 23, 1975

SECR

Mr. Joseph A. Marion, Jr.,

c/o United States Embassy :

Dear Sir:

This is to acknowledge the receipt of your information

on file 174-23 of 14 January, 1975.

•2.

Appended hereto for your information is some self-explanatory

material received from our External Affairs Department

on this

subject. The material includes:

1) A Prensa Latina English translation of a Havana

interview with Carlos RIVERO Collado. This

document was obtained from the Embassy of the

Republic of Cuba in Ottawa.

2) A note in Spanish from the Cuban Embassy in

Ottawa giving excerpts from that section of

the RIVERO Collado interview in which the

bombing of the Cuban Trade Office in Montreal

in 1972 is mentioned, with brief biographical

sketches of Eduardo PAZ and Rafael PEREZ (alias

- но и an

"Torpedo") two Miami based Cuban exiles singled

out by RIVERO in his interview.

translation of this material follows.)

3)

An article from the Cuban magazine Bohemia of

November 22 which summarizes an interview with

Carlos RIVERO Collado shortly after his arrival

in Cuba.

3.

Further

information as it may develop in this regard

will be provided to you.

For your information this material

has also been provided to the CIA.

4.

Your permission is requested to disseminate to our

External Affairs Department the information, to be suitably

105-2234146701

DocId: 32302356

Page 7

---

## Page 8

ReDATe Li 1e2015 John le Kengedy-Assassination Recoras collection del et 199p-444, Usc07 otee

- 24

SESBES

Đ 937-23781

paraphrased

Chat was

provided this office on you £ile

174-23 on 14 Januazy +

1975.

Yours truly.

Do Alepde la

hoC. Draper,

Deputy bizector General (0ps.)

Socurity Servico

+05-224146-101

/ DocId: 30302356

Page

---

## Page 9

Released wider the Jahn !) Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Art of 1992 (11 use 2107 Hote).

bATE: 11-14-2017

"0r2

Revelations of a former Cuban

counterrevolutionary leader

PASC I ST

- TERROKISI PLANS TO

ASSASSINATE LATIN AMERICAN

FOREIGN MINISTERS AND

DIPLOMATS

PRENSA LATINA Feature Service

Groups of Cuban counterrevolutionaries, those

terrorist activities are

financed by tbe Chilean

military junta, are working to expand their

activities into open warfare against the Latin

American countries which favor the raising of

the blockade against Cuba.

In an interview with Radio Havana Cuba, Carlos

Rivero Collado,

former Cuban counterrevolutionary

leader, declared that among the persons these

fascist groups plan to assassinate are secretary

of State Henry Kissinger and Foreign Minister

Gonzalo Facio of Costa Rica.

DocId: 32302356 Page 9

HAVANA

Carlos Rivero Collado, a former top leader of the Cuban counter-

revolution, revealed that the counterrevolutionary groups are

planning open warfare against the Latin American nations which

are in favor of raising the blockade against Cuba.

In an interview granted on November 3 to Radio Havana Cuba,

Rivero Collado also exposed the connections between the Chilean

military junta and the Cuban counterrevolution whose terrorist

activities it supports and finances.

SEARCHED

INDEXED

SERIALIZED*

FILED _

JAN 2 4 1975

LEGAL ATTACHE - OTTAWA

ERies 185-224146-101

---

## Page 10

Released underx the. John Fo kennedy Assassination Records

DATE: 11-14-2017

Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

River

the son of Andr

River guero, a Cuban politician Cuba

who was

elected presidess shortly before the over ow of the

Batista dictatorship, also gave new details on the Watergate

case, particularly on the involvement of the former civilian

chiel of the Bay de ligs lavasion, Manuel Arting/tesa.

He also spoke of the plan to assassinate President Salvador.

MAriende and Prime Minister Fidel Castro during the latter's

viali to Chile in 1971. Rivero also revealed the details o1

another plan, drawn up two years ago, to assassinate name

of the Panamanian Governmept, General Omar lorrijos.

The U.S.

Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger, and

Foreign Minister

Gonzaloy Pacio of Costa Rica are also on the list of persons

to be assassinated. he said.

Because of the importance of these revelations, PRENSA INcINA

is publishing the complete text of the interview granted by

Carlos Rivero Collado to Radio Havana Cuba.

MODERATOR: With us today is Carlos Rivero Collado, a former

Cuban counterrevolutionary leader who for the past few

years has been carrying out revolutionary activities abroad.

Because of his social origin and family ties, he became a

counterrevolutionary on the very day the Revolution triumphed.

He began to work with different groups and take active part in

counterrevolutionary activities, including the invasion of Playa

Giron. In most of these activities, he played important roles.

However, his personal experiences led him gradually to see the

intrinsic amorality and repugnance of the enemies of the Revolu

tion, and the decomposition and evils of the capitalist system.

He began to realize thät the works of the Revolution were aimed

at safeguarding the Cuban nation's highest values and the best

interests of its people. From then on, and for several years,

Rivero Collado worked for the revolution outside the country,

expressing the political and ideological transformation he had

undergone in his every day work.

We now give the floor to the newsmen. Comrade Prado...

NEWSMAN: Rivero Collado, when and in what circumstances

did

Jou leave Cuba?

DooId: 32302356 Page 10

185-224146-101

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

17

RIVERO:

I left Cuba on January 1, 1959, at 5 in the morning.

I left from the airport of what was then Camp Columbia and

landed in Florida.

MODERATOR: Comrade Castellanos...

NEWSMAN: Rivero, was there any special reason which made you

leave Cuba that way, on the very day of the triunph of the

Revolution?

LIVERO: Yes, I had a very important reason. I was 19 Jears old

at the time, and my lather, Andres Rivero Aguero, had been

elected president in the elections. of November 1958.

MODERATOR: Comrade Marti...

NEWSMAN: Why did you become a counterrevolutionary?

RIVERO: Well, aside from the influence of my family, which

logically I felt strongly, there was also the influence of my

environment, that is, the world I lived in and of which I was

really a product. All this made me turn against the Revolution

on the very day of its triunph. In order to answer your question

concretely, I would say that it was because

of the influences of

my family, my social origin, my environment, the psychology of

the world I belonged to and the enormous propaganda that existed

against the Revolution and against socialist ideas. The fundamental

thing was that I believed that all that was the truth, so I became

an enemy of the Revolution on January 1, 1959, I would also like

to add, incidentally, because I have had to mention my father's

name every time in order to explain the essential reason why I

left Cuba on the very day of the revolutionary triumph, that

while I have been fully identified with the Revolution for the

past few years, my father, as you know, has been, is and, I

am certain, will continue to be an enemy of the Revolution.

In other words, we are diametrically opposed in politics, in

spite of that, I still have the same affection for him, the

DocId: 32302356 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USe 2IU7 Rote).

COATE: 11-14-2017

life.. I would also like to add that my

feelings towards iy,

.ir.

father stem not

anly from a purely family tie, but because

I know that my

ther has always been an brest man, perhaps

a rare exception in Cuban politics of the past.

MODERATOR: Comrade Prado.••

MUSMAN: Can you tell us sonething of your life in the United

States and of how your ideas began to change?

RIVERO: On January 1, 1959, I decided to fight the Revolution.

I participated in a number of aggressions against the Revolution

from inside the United States and in other countries, during

1959, 1950 ard 1961, right up to the Playa Giron invasion, in

which I also participated. I was one of the founders of a

small counterrevolutionary group, the first to be organized in

U.S. territory to fight the Cuban Revolution. It was called

The White Rose. I also took part in other events at the time,

but I don't think it necessary to enumerate them here. In the

Bay of Pigs invasion I fought on the beaches called Playa Larga

and Playa Giron. I was captured and held prisoner, with the

rest of the invaders, for a little more than 20 months until

December 1962 when, as you will recall, the prisoners were

exchanged and returned to the United States. Speaking of

political positions, I would like to say that when I was

released I was what you would call a liberal democrat, that

was what my politics were from 1959 to 1952. Hewever, around

the time I was exchanged, I began to understand that liberal

representative denocracy was not exactly the best systen with

which to combat communism, because I had seen so much disloyalty,

cynician and perversion under capitalism.

Therefore, at the

beginning of 1963 I turned to nationalist ideas. However, I

soon realized that this new political position, which was a

reaction against my sarlier political beliefs, was in reality

a contradiction, a falsebood. It becare more and nore evidont

that counterrevolutionary nationalisa would lead ne atraight

to

Lescien, and we have a great many cases of that happening

in the counterrevolution. Therefore, to avoid going through.

105-224146-101

DocId: 32302356 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. (Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

what had happened to other counterrevolutionaries who went from

simple reactionary nationalism to fascism, which in essence are

the same thing, I simply lecided to stick to reai nationalism, a

type of nationalisn wuich in many ways coincides with the positions

adopted tiday by a number of Latin American countries who are in

fevor of closer relations and a policy of respect and consideration

for the Cuban revolutionary process.

That is, when I adopted this

position I realized thet I really bad only two choices before me:

to advance towards fascism, as I said before, or to adopta position

of anti-imperialist nationalism. I aleo realized that the

ditterence between anti-imperialist natiocalism, or real

nationalism,

that form of nationalism preached by Marti the Apostle and proclaimed

in his works where he called the United States by its real nanc,

and called U.s, politics by

its real name, that is, as imperialism,

I realized that there

was a practically imperceptible distance, a

very small step, between a genuinely nationalistic position

and a

revolutionary position.

MODERATOR: Comrade Castellanos..•

NEWSMAN: Rivero, you were speaking of

the so-called counterrevolu

tionary nationalists who

became

fascists. We understand that those

fascist groups were responsible for the terrorist attacks against

some of Cuba's diplomatic missions abroad. Is that right?

RIVERO: That's absolutely right. The counterrevolutionary fascist:

are the authors, the creators and the perpetrators of the terrorist

campaign which began some ten years ago under the name of "''he

war along the roads of the world," and which is spreading, even

now, as I can see from the press reports I have read recently.

I can say that the chiefs of those terrorist groups are 99 pox

cent fascist, that is, public and aditted partress of Mussolini,

Hitler, Primo del Rivera

hono

and of the newest incarnation of fascisi,

the tyrant of Chile, Augusto Pinochet. Each of those terrorist

bands which operate in the United States and in other countries,

such as Mexico, Venezuela and Spain, are definitely fascist.

They have adopted terrorism as

their strategy because to a certain

DocId: 32302356 Page 13

105-224 146-101

---

## Page 14

Released under the John, F, Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

Date: Hebree they realize that what they call the cause of anticom-

munism, that is, the strussle of the counterrerolution, has

and they be!

Live that terrorism is the nly way left

open to them. I can confidently say that terrorism is the

direct result of the failure of the counterrevolution as a

political cause. I would say that terrorism is a typical

sympton of defeat.

MODERATOR: Comrade Prado...

NEWSMAN: From what you say I gather that you have certain

secret information as to the activities of those fascist groups.

Am I correct?

RIVERO: Yes, I have. During the course of my revolutionary work

in the United States I had close relations with most of those

fascist groups, the creators of the terrorist bands which have

been functioning since 1964.

MODERATOR: Comrade Castellanos...

NEWSMAN: You have said that the fascist direct the attacks

against our diplomatic missions. Could you expand on this?

RIVERO: Of course. As I said, the terrorist campaign started in

1964, as a creation of the Cuban Nationalist Movement which is,

I repeat, of Nazi affiliation, a fact which is very well known

among counterrevolutionary circles. The canpaign started with

an attack against the United Nations building. Fascist elements

hurled a bazooka projectile against the UN building. Fortunately,

the projectile did not make impact and fell into the East River.

As I said, this was the opening round of the "War along the roads

of the world," which in spite of these criminal actions, spread

and made moderate progress until 1967 and 1968 when, under the

influence. of this terrorist current, new bands were created,

such as Cuban Power, the Secret Anticommunist Army and others.

These groups united and in 1968 started a terrorist campaign

which reached somewhat large proportions because in a little less

than a year they exploded more than 70 bombs in the United States,

105-224146-101

DocId 02302356 •Page 14

---

## Page 15

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aét of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote).

- DATE:, 11-14-2017

that is, they carried out at leas: 70 terrorist attacks. As

many of your will renember, chase attacks were fundamentally

aimed against the dipioma..c missions of the countries which

maintained relation: sith Cuba, that ia, those European countries

and Mexico which had firniy refused to take part in the criminal

U.s. imposed policy or blockading Cubs. That terrorist campaign

of 1968 was also aimed against a nunber of other counterrevolu-

tionaries who were engaged in what we might call capitalist

activities, that is, the Cubans who ran businesses, etc. In

other words, a campaign against the counterevolutionary capitalists

wild refused to contribute economically to the upkeep of the terrorist

bands, because, obviously, that campaign demaged the interests of

the Cuban businessmen. However, in Celober 1968, precisely when

the political life si the United Stotes was centered on the coming

presidential elcctions, the U.S. repressive forces, especially the

Federal Bureau of Investigation, decided to climinate those groups,

chiefly because U.S. public opinion and the press were exerting

great pressure on the IBI to make sure that the elections would

be held in a climate of peace. Therefore, Cuban Power, Nationaliot

Movement, ESA and other smaller groups were neutralized some three

or four weeks before the 1968 elections.

MODERATOR: Conrade Martio

NEWSMAN: Rivero, we understand, however, that those terrorist

activitios continued. Is inat right?

RIVERO: Yes, they continued because the neutralization process

wes really ineffective and only temporary. That is, the neutralize-

tion of those groups was an action fundamentally carried out so

that the elections could be held in a climate of peace. However,

an analysis of the counterrevolutionary events of the past 10

years shows us that a little more than three years after the

IBI thought it had neutralized the terrorists, they resumed

activities with an action that was reaily criminal. The Cuban

trade office in Montreal was attacked in early April 1972. The

"DocId: 32302356. Page 15

office was destroyed and a cuban revolutionary was killed.

This

105-2249146-101

---

## Page 16

Rereased under the Toly F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

tack was carried

ut by a terrorist band e led Young Cuba, in

coordination with other fascist elements which resided, and, as

far as I know, still reside in Montreal and other Canadian cities.

They had been collaborating with the campaign of the Cuban Nation-

alist Movement since 1964. I should also mention that the Cuban

embassy in Ottawa was attacked in 1966 and 1967. These activitios

were carried out by the Young Cuba band, which is made up of a

number of young fascists, some of whom had belonged to the group

of former president Carlos Prio Socarras and others to the group

led by Ramiro de la Fe, an invader of Playa Giron, a counterrevolu

tionary who was sentenced to three and a half years in prison in

the United States for illegal activities. I believe that the

action was tinanced by a donationa so ladars which former

president Carlos Prio Socarras

gave to the Young Cuba band. In

the operation against he Cuban trade mission in Montreal, the .

counterrevolutionaries Eduardo/Paz and RafaelXPerez/ Torpedo had

direct participation, in coordination with a person whose last

dedicated to terrorist actions, called theyluban Neorevolutionary Carede

Action Group. In the middle of 1975 they planned a personal attack

against the Cuban ambassador in Mexico, Lopez"Muiño:

Later, after

the bloody coup in Chile on September 11, 1973, these péople

rejoined the group led by Ramiro de la fe. Towards the end of

1973, the person who coordinated the work of the Chilean counter-

evolutionary exiles in Miami, a newsman called Pedro Ernesto Chile.

Diaz, intimately linked to the criminal Chilean group called

chile

Fatherland and Precdo", and to the military who made the coup

in Chile, established close contact with the terrorist band

which had acted in Montreal and which at the time was led by

Ramiro de la Fe. In this way, Cuban and Chilean counterrevolu-

tionaries created the so-called Pro-Chile Committee, fundamentally

to make propaganda favorabie to the fascist military junta because

the international situation of the junta, from the moment they

committed the crime of assassinating President Allende and of

assassinating the hopes for liberty of the Chilean people, was

so negative that the junta considered it necessary to enlist the

aid of certain elements, chiefly within the United States. Moreovei,

DocId: 32302356 Page 16

+05-2244 46-101

---

## Page 17

Released under the Joly F. Kennedy Assassination Records

DATE: 11-14-2017

Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Pote).

i lew days aiterhtle heroe fall of tristaent aldende, Colonel

an int nshe friend of the tyrant of Chale:

/ugusto Pinochet, visited liant and personally met with Ramiro

de la fe and his group of young terrorists. As far as I know,

a pact was signed between the Chilean, fascist culonel and other

Elements who accompanied hin and the group of Cuban counterrevolu-

tionaripe under the leadership of Ramiro de la Fe. According

in the terms of the pact, if the counterrevolutionaries in Miani

and in New York carried out a publicity compaign favorable to the

junta and if this pubiicity campaig. yielded results, then the

colonel, Eduardo sepulreda, promised to solicit the aid of the

tyrant, of Chile and persuade the military junta to give the

Cuban counterrevolutionaries arms, equipment and money. As I

said before, this aid from the Chilean military junta has two

objecüives: in the first place, to finance the campaigns of

the Pro-Chile Cunnittee, which is simply a propaganda organiza-

tion, and in the second place, to finance directly the terrorist

activities of the groups in U.s. territory and in the territory

of several countries in Latin America and Europe.

MODERATOR: Comrade Prado. •

NEWSMAN: In other words, we can say that these counterrevolutionary

actions are financed by the Chilean fascist junta?

RIVERO: Obviously, the entire terrorist campaign, which has a

history of ten years now, has not been financed by the Chilean

junta. Nor would I say that all the terrorist actions going

on at this moment, let us say after

september 11, 1973, are

financed by the Chilean justa. But I can confidently say

that the terrorist campaigns being carried out by the group

of Cuban counterrevolutionaries led by Ramiro de la Fe, made

up

gI foriner invaders of Playa Giron, the members of the Secret

Anticommunist Army which operated in 1968 and was later temporarily

neutralized, and the group of young fascists who committed the

crime vi Montreal: I can truthiully say that the activities or

these

people are directly financed by the money of the Chilean

DocId: 32302356 Page 17

11

185-224146-101

---

## Page 18

Released under the John

17) Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

/fascist military junta. i would

like to add something which

Is

not known publicy, but which

is well known to the counter-

revolutionary elem

ts of the fascist current dow operating in

U.s.. territory, and that is the following: When the prime

minister of Cuba, Fidel Castro, visited Chile in October 1971,

a group of fascist counterrevolutionary elements, sponsored by

the CIA, plarned to kill the leader of the Cuban RevolutioNenezuela

President Allende. The person in charge of this operation

Jesus Dominguez Benitez, nicknamed "Ei Isleño," an individual Chile

who had been intimately linked to Cuban Power, a terrorist group

which as I said before was active in 1968. He had also participatoi

in the attempt to infilirate a group of counterrevolutionaries a

inte

Cuba in early January 1970, a group led by Vicente Mendes.

Dominguez Benitez has been arrested twice by the FBI. He has

been sentenced iwice by two different courts for illegal activition.

However, after just a few days in prison he was relessed and given

absolute freedom of movenent, including the freedom to collect

weapons and organize an assassination plot against two government

chiefs of Latin America. The work of this group, directed by

Dominguez Benitez, had the cooperarion of several Cuban counter-

revolutionaries living in Caracas, Venezuela, who gave Benitez

false papers

accrediting him as a Venezuelan newsman. He used

these papers to travel to Santiago de Cuba to cover the visit

of Fidel Castro in Chile, Later I found out that Benitez also

had the cooperation of a nunber of Chilean military men who had

been plotting against President Allende since the day the Popular

Unity Government won the elections in September 1970. Dominguez

Benitez returned to Venezuela and from there he went to the United

States. I ask myselt the question of how is it possible that

U.S. authorities were not able to control the comings and goings

of a person who had been sentenced twice by the courts in Miami.

And I ask myself another question: Ars the U.S. authorities

incapable of keeping their borders from being used for these

criminal plans or did they deliberately close their eyes to that

situation?

MODERATOR: Comrade Castellanos...

105-224145701

DocId: 32302356 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Released under the John Til Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: <11-14-2017

NEWSMAN: Can you tell us someching about the present plans of

ne terrorist gro

s which are operating in

*veral countries?

RIVERO: I can say that the terrorist campaigns which these

people have carried out in the past 10 years against the

diplomatic missions of several countries are ained at starting

open warfare between the most aggressive faction of the counter-

revolution and the nations of latin America that are in favor

of raising the blockade against Cuba in the fortaconing 14th

Consultative Meeting of the Foreign Ministers of Latin Americar

to open on November Sth In Guito. This varfare consists principal

ly oi terrorist attacks against the diplonatic missions of the

nations which vote in favor of raising the blockade, or more

precisely, the diplomatic missions of those countries in the

United States and in other countries were these fascist bands

operate. Mexico. Spain, Venezuela and otber eountries. The plan

is io assassinate the diplomats, aabassadors and foreign ministers

of those nations.

NEWSMAN: They actually plan to assassinate Latin American

diplomats?

RIVERO: That's right. That strategy was drawn up in the middle

of 1973 when the nost aggressive elements of the counterrevolution

began to note positive changes on the part of the Latio American

countries in regard to the Cuban Revolution. The fuadamental plan

of these

elements is to assassinate two specific figures: Secretary

of State Henry Kissinger and Foreign Minister Gonzalo Facio of

Costa Rica, who as we know has been the main drive behind the quiro

meeting. Recentiy, I discovered a piece of information in a t.?.

newspaper which expands and corroborates what I have known privaiely

since 1972, since the plan to assassinate the U.S. secretary of

state began to take certain form at the end of 1973. This plan

has now been actualized. This fact which, I repeat; I've known

wash. DC.

privately, has been corroborated by the U.S. journalist, Jack

Anderson, who I believe is the nast widely read columnist in the

United States,

MODERATOR: Comrade Jose Prado...

1.3

DocId: 32302356 Page 19

105-224146-101

---

## Page 20

Released under the Tong F. Kennedy Assässination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Nöte) .

DATE: :11-11-RE7SMAN: a adorara to to terroric Croipe you've releared io,

we undersiana that simiiar group. on bards nave been created

recently. wh

iran you told us added

i,

RIVERO: I have aome information bere about inose groupo.

in the

first place, the recrorist cole of the Cuban Nationstist Movemens

continue so function, as they here been since before lucy. frese

clements have their major resuits

, we could call choid te chê

North Zone, which incides the retropolitan area of Wew cor

City and some parts of New Jersey, These elements founded the

called Zero Group, a terrorist band which publicly tock resporsi.

bility for the killing of Jose Ellas de la lorrierte, 10 years

old, who the fascists accused

of having stolen

funds iron the

so-called torriente project wnich were to be used to fight the

Cuban Revolution, A few weeks afüer the killing of lorriente,

who was shot in the back, another 7O-jear did nen, Ernesto Ro-

driguez, president of the Christiar Denocratir Movement in exile,

that is, the counterrevointionary Christian-Denocrats, was also

shot to deach in Miani. four daye after Porriente was kiiled,

the leadar of Cuban Porcrn 1968 and the head of the terrorist

bands, Arture Hodrigo: mires was Killed In dew York, erd at the

end of hugust si tude jour, the leader of the cabar Karimalist

Movement, an invader or Etaya Giron, icader of the Zero group,

Hector Diaz Linonid, was accie: in Onion Cury, New Jersey:

Of course, these killing are only a tiny part of the inceinal

war witnin the loke tos concterr rision thier. as ve nave

seen has sost the lined several persons, then we dove the

so-called Searer Putar Corosent waich vas tomded in 1972

and which carded our duel Spectaclar torrorist actions

until 19g4 when in dradar the abocodied Notsonel Proud for Cuban

Liberation

Bat which o the dost scuive terrockst group right

now.

The Sectst Cuban Goreruet to a terrorist band nade in fi the dishdi

forner members or Cubsu lever iron 1968, à group catted ibe APA

MIRA Alliance, ind the Maild ineurectional Movement. Inal 15,

¿hese movements are the mlitical rache for this terrorist group.

The Secret Cuban Governement le most active aiso in the Nortb Zone,

105-224146101

DocId: 32302356 - Page 20

---

## Page 21

ReTeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

is; the industr lived sortheasters part of the United

S

In November 1973, the Secret Cuban Go! Inment planned

to assassinate the Cuban ambassador

to the United Nations,

Ricardd Alarcon Quesadn.

Io=ourrytout this plan, the secret

Cuban

Government rented

an apartment in the "up-town" section

of Manhattan in New York. The apartment was used to store

explosive plastics material known as C-3, C-4 and Di9, too

M-3 mächine guns, hand grenades and several automatic pistols

and ammunition. We should note that the plastic bombs found

in the apertment are identical to those which the following

mouth, or two months later in January 1974, were found in a

children's playground located on the grounds of the Cuban

embassy in Mexico. But the action in Mexico was carried out

by a third terrorist band, Cuban Action.

Cuban Action is a terrorist group made up of members of the (uba

Ansurrectional Movement for Revolutionary Recovery (MIRB) which

Should not be confused with the chilean patriotic MIR.

chiTe

ladi is the antithesis of patriotism, Cubanaction also-ineludes

members of the so-called Revolutionary Directory. On behalf

of this gIouD, a young man, 26 or 27, traveled to Paris in

August 1973. The extremely powerful bomb he was preparing

exploded in his hands, killed nim instantly, destroyed his body

which simply disappearer, and destroyed an entire

'floor of the

hotel where he was staying near Paris, the Abren Ville Hotel.

This man, Juan Felipe de la Cruz, vas really a victim of the

CubanAction chiefs who had gent him to Paris. Of course, he

was a terrorist but he was also the vietim of the chiefs who

did not take any risks at all. In addition to the Cuban Action

group, there is the National front for Cuban Liberation,

the JaNic,

a mixture of terrorist groups which belonged to earlier terrorist

4.S

organizations. The FNLC is also made up of mercenaries from the

U.S. Army who were trained in Fort Jackson, Fort Benning and

Fort knox and who

now have a veterans' association. The FNLC

also includes the followers of Ramon Orozcolürespo; the group

of pirates who have carried out several maritime attacks agarost

Cuban fishermen; a team of parachutists called "The) Golden Falcons,..

and a dissident group from the Authentic Party of the Miami Ares.

DocId: 32302356 Page

21

185-2244116-101

---

## Page 22

Redeased under the John.F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

I would like to add that there is absolute coordination between

the secret Cuban Government; Cuban Action and the ENIC. They

are really a wigle group which is branca out deliberately to

give the impression of a bigger membership and to mislead public

opinion. The INIC is responsible for the mailing of postal

packages containing bombs which they have sent from Mexico to

several Cruan embassies. One of those packages which arrived

at the Cuban embassy in Lima seriously injured a Cuban woman

employee and another one which was sent to the Cuban embassy in

Madrid injured two Spanish employees of the embassy.

MODERATOR: Comrade Castellanos..•

NEWSMAN: Could you give us the names of the counterrevolutionaries

who lead these terrorist groups?

RIVERO: The terrorist groups have coordinators, cell chiefs and...

Fiorde

cell members.

The coordinators of main leaders

n. yare the following:

-Telipe Rivero Diaz and Guillermo Nove Sampol-or the Cuban Nationalis

Movenent and the Zero Group. Felipe Rivero directs the work in

Florida and Guil factoro in the Ney leftarea. Hector Arabians

Francisco Hernandez and Guillermo Miguel

the secret cuban

Government; Orlando: Bosch Aila, Antonio Calatayud of the cuban:

Action group; Ramon Orozco Crespo, Angel Ferrer, Frank Castro,

AYIN

Humberte Topez and Alfredo sayuzen the National Front for

Cuban.

Liberation, which was recently joined by Gustavo Marin Duarte. yohec

the cell chiefs of the

membothe

Nationalist Movement and

Zero group, which are really one and

the same thing.

oscar mu benevoão and drenconales, invaders

of Playa Giron and former nembers uf thè Secret Anticommunist

Army, of the Secret Cuban Government. Guidd Sanz and

Villa,

invader of flaya Giron, former secretary-general of the

MIRR, of the movement which was led by Orlando Bosch/Avila, who

is the coordinator of luban- Action in San Juan, Puerto Rico.

Je also have Conrado Rodriguez wanchez, Humberto/Lopez JI., Inis

Crespo and Juan Jose: Perullero of the National Front for Cuban

DocId: 32302356 1Bage 22

16

105-224-46400

---

## Page 23

Released under the John.F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

; DATE:

11-14-2017

liberation

lope: ard Crespo were fe:lously injured in March

of this year, whe

mechur-size bonb exploid in their hands

as they were trying

to place it aside a boor to send by mail

to a cuban embarsy.

This explocion cook place in the home of

the couverrevulutionary alfredoggs uz who has worked as

coordinator, that is, he coordinated the work of these three

groups.

Ther: ale other people who, in addition to participating

acüively in terrorist activities-carry out work de can describe

Muñoz, Antonio Mendez, Jose Perez Linares,-Pedro Hernandez,

Francisco Molina, Rafael Gonzalez Labrain, Gabriel abay and Jose

XAyuila Falinar.

These

petle were operating in dew fork city,

although gula salman also lives in the Dominican RepubLiC

There-are also Luis Fornes, director of a counterrevolutionary Florida

Alonso, Jose Llevert, Eduardo Paz and Jesus Lazo.

These people coordinate

terrorist activities in Mimi. We also

nave aldoRonado, leer avera, and Pedauparnao who work in a

terrorist group in Los Angeles, Califomnia.

NEWSMAN: You mentioned that these groups had a plan to assas.

sinate Latin American dipionats. I think that this is a very.

important piece of information. Can you tell us which of these

• groups is planning to assassinate the diplomats of Latin America?

RIVERO: That plan has been coordinated by the lollowing counter-

revolutionaries: Orlando Posch Avila, Antonio Calatayud, Hoctor

AYFabian, Remon Orozco Crespo, Felipe Rivern Diaz, Juan Jose

XPerullero, Angel i. Ferrer and Gustavo Marin Duarte.

I know that they have had meetings in the past few months. There

is also something which I have not mentioned

un to now, and that

is the publicly known fact that on september 19th of this year,

the Costa Rican loreign minister, Gonzalc Facio, was threatened

with death in the city of Washington. This threat was publicly

announced by the ambassador of Costa Rica in Washinetons Rodolfo

/Silva. Moreover, the U.S, secret service appointed five of its

agents to protect the Costa fican minister during his stay in

Washington. It is known that a terrorist, cell went to Washington

DocId: 32302356

Page 23

105-224144-101

---

## Page 24

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

around September 18th, coinciding with the meeting of the

Permanent Council of the JAs which took place in Washington in

the Panamerica: Inion building on Septem

20th which agreed

to call the Quito meeting in November. This is what has been.

commented on within the aggressive counterrevolutionary circles,

in their meetings, and now the columnist Jack Anderson has not.

only confirmed

it but has also mentioned something I had no

knowledge. of, the fact that these terrorist bands are plotting

to assassinate the members of the United States Congress who

favor a revier of U.S. policy on Cuba.

MODERATOR: Comrade Prado...

NEWSMAN: You mentioned that the persons who have attacked our

Lashermen have been members of

these terrorist groups. Cowd

you be more explicit?

cuba

BIVERO: The counterrevolutionaries Juan Jose Perullero, Antonio

XIglosias and Banon Orozcoi Crespo are members of those pirate groups.

Perallero and Iglesias were the two leaders of the attacks against

the town of Boca de Samá; where they cowardly killed two Cuban

revolutionaries and injured several persons, among then, &

13 year old girl who had to have her leg amputated because of

her wounds. After that action, Perullero, Iglesiaa and Crespo

joined the FNLC. Before this Crespo had carried out a number

of attacks against Cuban fishing vessels in 1972 and 1973. His

group went so far as to assassinate a humble fisherman and to

dIdnap his body. Ramon Orozco Crespo has been the bodyguard of

the Florida multimillionaire Maurice Ferrer for several years.

I would like to add, since we are speaking of the people who took

part in these maritime aggressions, that they are now freely

walking on the streets of Miami and New York and publicly boasting

of their actions such as the one where they attacked a fishing

village and among other things, made a 13-year old girl lose her

leg. They boast of this in public, they regard themselves as

heroes and other people in that same aggressive current accept

them as such. These people have publicly declared that independ

ently of international detente, which is alreedy evident, they will

105-224144-101

DocId: 323023566 Page 24

---

## Page 25

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

continue to figu, and I am quoting them

exactly, even if they.

have to fight thU.S, authorities themselas. I should aiso

say that these aggressions against Cuba have been carried out

from boats and launches now anchored in the Miami River which

runs through the middle of the city.

However, although the boats are there plain to see, the authorities

apparently are blind. Those people continue to walk the streets

of Miami, they continue to possess weapons and equipment which

were used in the attack against Sand and in other actions, and

continue to possess the vessels that were used in those attacks.

They also continue to plot against Cuba in spite of the fact that,

there is a treaty against piracy signed by Cuba and the United

States on February 15, 1973•

MODERATOR: Comrade Castellanos..•

NEWSMAN: To change the subject a little, do you believe that the

press has published everything about the involvement of Cuban

counterrevolutionaries in the Watergate case?

RIVERO: I don't believe that everything has been revealed, at

least all the names, I can say wiüh ceriainty that the seguest, de

of five counterrevoiutionaries, including James Mc Cord, who IS

an American but who thinks just like a Cuban counterrevolutionary,

that group which broke into the Watergate building originally had

six members, but at the last minute it was decided that the sixth

person would not participate in the action. That person was Argel

I Ferrer and we've already spoken of him. Another name hasn't

been revealed, that of Manuel Artine, Buesa, civilian chiét of

the Playa Giron invasion, an agent of the CIA for many years,

who was also involved directly in the Watergate case. Artime,

approximately two years ago, was plotting to assassinate the

chief of the Panamanian state, General Omar Porrijos. Artime

had active, direct participation in the Watergate affair,

however his name has never been mentioned. There are two more

persons involved in that scandal -all this is well known in

counterrevolutionary circles, I'm not inventing this, it's

105-224 8460-101

DocId: 32302356 Page 25

---

## Page 26

Redeased under the John.F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107 Hote).

VATE: 11-14-2017

widely talked about in those circles-- Mike/ Suarez ernande

and Humberto Lopez, the coordinator of the

Front for Cuban

FloRida

Liberation,

interrorist group which als had a participation

in the Watergate case. These two men are activists of the so-

called Authentic Party of the Miami Area. According to comment-

aries I heard in Miami and in New York, the Cuban-origin counter-

revolutionaries Bebe/rebo da legardo Buttari annot completely

out of the Watergate scandal, I would say they are not even partial

1y out of it.

MODERATOR: Comrade Marti..•

NEWSMAN: You said before that the terrorist campaign is a result

of the failure of the counterrevolution. What, in your opinion,

are the causes of this failure?

RIVERO: Tht total failure of the counterrevolution is the fact

that the Cuban Revolution is a historic and irreversible reality.

The terrorist activities which have made outlaws out of the counter

revolutionaries have led to a great wave of world protest, even on

the part of U.S. public opinion. Moreover, I would say that

terrorism is the epitaph of the counterrevolution.

NEWSMAN: You've been in Cuba for a while now. How do you feel and

what are your impressions of Cuba?

RIVERO: I feel highly honored and pleased to be able to return

to my country after so many years of absence. In the short time

I've been here I've traveled from one end of the island to the

other and I can honestly say that I have seen the extraordinary

work of social transformation carried out by the Cuban Revolution

which has placed our country on an astronimically high level among

the nations of the world.

MODERATOR: One last question. Comrade Marti..•

NEWSMAN: What are your plans now?

105-224146-101

20

DocId: 32302356 Page 26

---

## Page 27

Release Under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records, Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

RIVERO: Right now I'm finishing a book on the history of the

counterrevolutid

WHiCh @00R FrOM the SOUn of the White

Rose group in January 1959 to the Watergate affair, which

scarcely three montns ago led to the resignation of the

president of the United States. I believe that the book will

be published soon.

MODERATOR: We would like to thank Carlos Rivero Collado for

his appearance on this program.

-

och=

105-224146-101

DocId: 32302356

Page 27

---

## Page 28

telease d under

DATE: 11-14

LA Tehe Joa Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

FRAGMENTOS DE LA ENTREVISTA REALIZADA POR LA RADIO Y

LA TELEVISION NACIONAL DE CUBA AL SR. CARLOS RIVERO CO-

LLADO. REALIZADA EL 3 FE NOVIEMERE DE 1974.

PERIODISTA: Tenemos entendido que estas acciones terroristas

continuaron. Cierto?

DocId: 32302356 Page 28

RIVERO: Sí, efectivamente, continuaron las acciones terroristas,

porque la neutralización, como se comprenderá, fue inefectiva y ade-

más fue temporal. Es decir, la neutralización de este grupo, entien-

do yo, fundamentalmente realizada a los efectos de que las elecciones

pudieran llevarse a cabo en un clima de paz. Sin embargo, el análi-

sis de los hechos que han sucedido en la contrarrevolución en los úl-

timos diez años nos lleva a conocer que tres años, poco más de tres

años después, esta campaña terrorista............. creía que había

neutralizado, resurgió con una acción que revistió una característica

criminal.

Fue un hecho.:.

.. en la ciudad de Montreal; us-

tedes se acordarán cuando las Oficinas Comerciales de Cuba en Mon-

..treal-fueron-atacadas.aprincipios.de Abril-del.año.setenta.y.dos: cuan

do.......... un revolucionario fue asesinado. Este atentado fue rea-

lizado por una banda terrorista denominada "Joven Cuba", coordinado •

con otros elementos fascistas que residían — y tengo entendido aún re-

siden — en la ciudad de Montreal y otras ciudades canadienses y que ha-

bían estado colaborando con la campaña del "Movimiento Nacionalista

Cubano" a partir del año sesenta y cuatro. Y no vamos a olvidar

tan1-

poco lo de los años sesenta y seis y sesenta y siete: nuestra Embajada

en Ottawa fue atacada en dos oportunidades. Es decir, que este hecho

fue realizado......... por una serie de jóvenes fascistas que habían -

pertenecido al grupo del Expresidente Carlos Prío Socarrás y otros al

grupo de Ramiro de la Fe, invasor de Playa Girón; un contrarrevolucio-

nario que cumplió una condena de tres años y medio en los Estados Uni-

dos por actividades ilegales.

22

105-224146-101

ENSIGSURS

Tengo..../2

---

## Page 29

Released under the Johh. F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• 1.

EMBAJADA DE CUBA

OTTAWA, CANADA

2

entendido que esta acción fue realizada y solventada por

una contri-

bución de $2,500 dólares que el Expresidente Carlos Prío Socarrás

le hizo a la banda "Joven Cuba". En la operación, específicamente

de la parte de la Misión Comercial cubana en Montreal, tomaron par-

ticipación directa los contrarrevolucionarios Eduardo Paz y Rafael

Pérez "Torpedo", coordinados con un individuo de apellido Soto, re-

sidente en la ciudad de Montreal.

185 324146-101

DocId: 32302356

Page 29

23

---

## Page 30

Pereased indexstbe JAhuA Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11 TrAMA7 CANADA

DATOS SOBRE LOS PRESUNTOS AUTORES DEL ATENTADO DINA-

MITERO CONTRA LA OFICINA COMERCIAL DE CUBA EN CANADA.

EDUARDO PAZ. - 25 años aproximadamente. Vive en 2483 S. W. 16

St., Miami. Frecuenta la casa de su padre René Paz, 1201 S.W. 19

Avenue, Miami. Vinculado al "Partido Revolucionario Cubano Auten-

tico" que dirige en Miami Carlos Prío Socarrás.

Ha pertenecido a otras organizaciones contrarrevolucionarias como

"Directorio Auténtico" y "Juventud Auténtica".

Participo en la fundación de la banda terrorista "Jover Cuba" y fue -

uno de sus cabecilias, participando en atentado dinamitero a la Oficina

Comercial de Cuba en Montreal en Abril 4 de 1972, regresando a New

York una vez consumado el hecho.

Después del citado atentado, la organización "Joven Cuba" cambió su

nombre por el de "Acción Neo-revolucionaria Cubana Pragmatista".

Su principal cabecilla es Ramiro de la Fe.

RAFAEL PEREZ (A) "TORPEDO". - 29 años aproximadamente. Vive

en 920 S.W. ll Avenue, apartamento. 5, teléfono 373-6715, Miami.

Veterano de la guerra contra Viet-Nam, donde alcanzó el grado de Sar-

gento en un destacamento de demolición.

Vinculado a la organización "Joven Cuba", participó en el atentado dina-

mitero contra la Oficina Comercial de Cuba en Montreal. Consumado -

éste, regresó

a New York, manteniéndose también vinculado al grupo -

"Pragmatista".

Posteriormente pasó a integrar la "Federacion Revo-

lucionaria de Estudiantes Cubanos" (FREC), que radica en la Universi-

dad de Miami. Acostumbra portar armas de fuego.

DocId: 32302356 Page 30

Tanto Eduardo Paz como Rafael Pérez frecuentan en Miami la esquina

del "Restaurant Badías", calle 8 del S. W. y 16 Avenida.

+5-224146-181

---

## Page 31

Released ander the John I Kennedy assassinal

DATE: 11-14-2017

on Recort Co betion Art 01 1992 411 Use 2101 Note).

PARTS ÓF THÉ INTERVIEW WITH MR. CARLOS RIVERO COLLADO,

AS

"PRODUCED BY NATIONA

RADIO AND TELEVISION OE CUBA. NOVEMBER

1974.

JOURNALIST: We have heard that these terrorist activities will

continue. Right?

RIVERO: Yes, in fact, the terrorist activity will continue since

the neutralization, as it may be understood, was ineffective in

addition of being a temporary one, i.e., the neutralization of

this group, I understand, was effected mainly with the purpose of

letting the elections be conducted in a climate of peace. However,

an analysis of the facts, that have taken place in the counter-

revolutionary circles in the last ten years, brings to our knowledge

that, after three, or a little more years this terrorist campaign

........... believed to be suspended, resurged with an action which

essumed characteristics of crininality. There was an incident

.. in the city of Montreal; you remember, when the Cuban Trade

Mission in Montreal was attacked in the beginnings of April, 1972;

when..... a revolutionary was killed. The attack was carried

out by a terrorist band called "Joven Cuba" ("Young Cuba" ) in

coordination with other fascist elements that resided - and, as I

understand, still reside - in the city of Montreal and in other

Canadian cities, and had been collaborating within "Movimiento

Nacionalista Cubano" ("Cuban Nationalist Movement") since 1964.

Neither shall we forget these (terrorist acts, Tr.) of the years

of 1966 and 1967; our Embassy in Ottawa was attacked on two

occasions. It is to say that the acts were carried out ........

_by a sequence of young fascists who were members of Ex-president

Carlos Prio Socarras®

group, or of the group of Ramiro de la Fe,

invador. of Playa Giron; a counterrevolutionary who served a term

of three and a half years in the United States for illegal activities.

I have heard that the action was carried out and financed

with a contribution of $2,500. which Ex-president Carlos Prio

Socarras made to the "Joven Cuba" band. In the operation,

+05=2214146-101

25

... 12

DocId: 32302356 Page 31

---

## Page 32

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Recotte Collection del 0i- 1992 63 US¢ 2107 Pote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

specifically in the one against the Cuban Trade Mission in Montreal,

took direct part the counterrevolutionaries, duardo pas and

Rafael Perez "Torpodo", together with an individual called "Soto",

a resident of the city of Montreal.

26

+05-224144-401

DocId: 32302356

Page 32

---

## Page 33

Released undér the John F? Renredy Assassination Records Collection Not or 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote).

-DATE: 11-14-2017

dwind

PERSONAL DATA OF PRÉSUMED AUTHORS OF DYNAMITE ATTACK AGAINST

•CUBAN TRADE MISSION

OFFICES IN CANADA.

EDUARDO PAZ. Approximately 29 years old. Itses at 2483 s.w.

16th -St..

Miami.

Visits the home of his father Rene Pas.

# 01-000

1021 S.W. 19th

Avenue, Miami. Linked with "Partido Revolu-

cionario Cubano Autentico" which is directed at Miami by Carlos

Prio Socarras.

membeda

Belonged to other counterrevolutionary organizations,

such as

"Directorio Autentico" and "Juventud Autentica".

541

Took part in organization of the terrorist band "Joven

Cuba", and was one of its ringleaders.

Participated in the

dynamite attack against the Cuban Trade Missionpoffices in

Montreal, April 4, 1972; returned to New York once thé action

had been carried out.

membero

Following the aforementioned attack,

the organization

¿Joven cuba" changed their name of accion Neo-revolucionaria, Florida

Cubaha Pragmatista". Their principal ringleader is famiro de

La/re.

B.approx 1945

RAFAEL

PEREZe alias /"TORPEDO". Approximately 29 years of age.

920 S.W. 11th Ave..

Apartment 5. telephone 373-6715,

Miami.

veteran of the war against Vietnam where he obtained the

rank or Sergeant in a demolition squad.

Carza

Linked with the organization "Joven Cuba", took part in

the dynamite attack against the Cuban Trade Mission offices in

Montreal; returned to New York once it had been carried out. Also

remains linked with the group "Pragmatista". Recently has joined

the "'Federacion Revolucionaria de Estudiantes Cubanos" (FREC),

based at the University of Miami. Is used to carry firearms.

Both Eduardo Paz and Rafael Perez often visit a joint,

at "Restaurant Badias", 16th Avenue and 8th Street S.W., Miami.

+85-224146-101

DocId: 32302356 Page 33

---

## Page 34

eleased under the John. F. Kennedy Assassination Reçords, Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE ::

11-14-2017

REVELATTOND O

in a descerate etfort to gather sirenrth at tbie definitive noment

in the Hemisphere, and in view of the atrenath and irreversible

character of the cuban revolntionery process, severnt range of

fascist "worms" who operate in U.s. territory are preparing

terrorist campaien against political vorronalities of the continent,

have

become partners of the military junta of Chile, and plan to

assassinate Cubay leaders and ambassadors. It is the final reony

of those who betraved their people and now cling to terroriem, which

is to become the enitanh of the counterrevolution.

The National Information agency (AIN? transmitted last, November Ird,

through its teletone, a news item announcing that the Revolutionary Government

whe anthorizing the return to cuba of Carlos Rivero Collado.

Keing a procuet of the social environment to which he belonged, the

note stated, Rivero Collade had left the country

during the first moment. of

the triumph of the Revolution and immediately began to take part in different

counterrevolutionary groups, plane and activities.

Nevertheless, the cable arded, his personal exnerience made him

understend the amorality and corruption of the counterrevolutionaries, as well

an the rottenness and human misery of caritrlism.

He emally understood that richt was on the side of the Cuban

Revoltoone

concerently Rivero Collado began to carry out revolutionary

tasks outride Cuba in sunport of the devolutione on account of these, une

revointionary ioverrment authorised his entry te the country, the cable con-

Rivero Collado, to years of ace, abandoned the country at dawn or

January Ist., 1950, Hr left directly from the Colomoia military cam hoeriod

28

DocId: 32302356 Page 34

INCLASUR

105-224146-104.

---

## Page 35

/Kéleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records. Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: ' 11-14-2017

DooId:32302356 Page 35

• for Florida, in the company of hir father, Andres

Rivero Agüero, president-

elect at the elections organized by the regime of tilgencio Batista in

November 1958, and he immertiately joined the counterrevolutionary erication

In Rosa

Blancae

Tater, in Anril 106l, he was one of the members of the bricade of

mercenaries whion invaded cuba in the arca of Playa dirón (Bay of Pips), south

of Matanzas. Having been made a prisoner by the penple's forces, he remained

in prison for about 20 months until the exchange of prisoners between this

country and the United utates took place.

Now, during the Havana winter of 1974, dressed in an elemant dark

suit, with lone nide-whiskers and

nodern silvery classes, Rivero Collado ot

lined before three newspapermen the plans of the counterrevolution to assassinate

Hemispheric ambassadors and dirlomats, the links of the fascist gangs with

the

Chilean Military Junta, and intimate detailsanout terrorist groups which have

their bases in the les.

He explained

that in the develonment of his work in the lose, he was

in close connection with the majority of the fascist groups, organizers of

terrorist gangs which have

been operating in the Hemisphere since 1964.

After givine an account of several operations by those groups during

the decade of the 60's, river, collado said that the so-called Joven Cuba or-

ganization carried out

a dynamite attack against the commercial offices of

Cuba in Montreal in April 1972.

An offinial of the mission was assassinated in the action.

The person

being interviewed holds a group of fascists financed by

ex-president Carlos Frío socarrás responsible for this action.

He also pointed out that in mid-1973 the same individuals

trying

to orzanize an attack on the Cuban Ambassador

to Mexico, Fernando, Lonez

Сива

105-22-4146-101

30

---

## Page 36

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records. Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE : : 11-14-2017

A Little later, in November of that year, the socalled secret.

Government

was preparing a plan to assassinate the Cuban Ambassador to

United Nations, Ricardo Alarcón de Cuesada.

In the city of New York,

in what is called Uptown Manhattan, Rivero

Collado added, this group had an apartment where they stored plastic explosive

materials krown as C-3, C-A and D-1-9, as well as pistols, two M3 machine

guns, hand grenades and ammmition.

At the end of 1973, he added, a newspaperman called Pedro Ernesto

Diaz, who had been the coordinator of the Chilean counterrevolutionary exiles

in Miami, intimately linked to the pranization called Patria y Libertad and

to military coup-d'etat groups, established firm contacts with the group that

had carried out the action in Montreal, Canada.

The Cuban and Chilean counterrevolutionaries created a Pro-Chile

Committee with the onject of prodeing proparanda to improve the image of

the military juntro

A few days after the downfall of President Allende, he said, a close

friend of the chilean tyrant dumato Pinochet, Colonel Eduardo Sepúlveda,

visited Miami and had

a personal interview with the leaders of the terrorist

groups.

DocId: 32302356 Page 36

Rivero Collado said that the Chilean officer and the Cuban counter

revolutionaries made a pact by which the military junta would provide the

groups of Cuban exiles with weapons and money.

the

Accordin?

to the interviewee, the pact har two purposes: to

finance

propaganda campaions of the Pro-Chile Committee, and to finance directly

the terrorist actions that the counterrevolutionaries have been perpetrating

in the U.So and in other countries in Latin America and Europe.

"I can state with authority," he said, "that the terrorist campaigne

which are being carried on by the counterrevolutionary group led by Ramiro

30

105-224144-708-40

---

## Page 37

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records, Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107. Hote) .

DATE : : 11-14-2017

de la Fe, made

ot former invaders of Plava c

in, members of the socret

Anti-Commnist Army and by the group of fascist youths who carried out the

crime in Montreal, is financed with

money from the Chilean fascist military

junta."

Rivero Collado advised also that in Cetover 1971, during the visit

of Cuban Prime Minister Fidel

Castro to Chile, a groun of Cuban counterrevolution

aries under the auspices of the CIA, prepared a scheme to assassinate the leader

of the Cuban Revolution and the constitutional President of Chile Salvador

Allende.

The nerson who led the operation, he added, is named Jesús Dominues

Benitez, known as ill Isleño. He obtained

the cooperation of several Cuban

counterrevolutionaries who live in Caracas, who provided Benitez with false

documents as a Venezuelan citizen and newspaperman, with which he travelled

to Santiago de Chileo

Dominues Beniter, it was later known, hod the help of several Chilean

officers who had been conspiring against Fresident Allende since the comin' to

power of the Unidad Forular.

Rivero Collado exulained that at the present moment these groupe are

planning to unleash poen warfare against those Hemispheric governmente which

are in favour of the lifting of the blockade against Cuba at the fourteenth

Meeting

of Foreian Ministers in Quito.

The confrontation takes the form of terrorist attacks against diplo

matic missions of the nations who vote in favour of the lifting of the blockade,

especially in the United states, Mexico, Spain and Venezuela, where their gangs

are operating.

Fundamentally, Rivere: Collado said, it is a matter of assassinating

the

Foreign Ministers,

ambassadons

and diplomats from those countries which

are

accredited to the above-mentioned countries.

31

+052209446101

5o

DocId: 32302356 Page 37

---

## Page 38

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records, Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

This

ratery was sketched out in

1171 when elements or the

counterrevolution began to foresee a change for the better on the nart of

the Latin Americon natione with respect to the cuban Revolution.

"i could say," rivero Collado emphasized, "that the basic plan of

these groups concentrates on two specific persons: the U.S. Secretary of ütate,

Henry Kissinzer, and the Foreign Minicter of Costa Rica, Gonzalo Facio, who, as we

know, has been the one who arranged the meeting at imito."

These proups, he added, have declared that, quite apart from their

expansion internationally, which is already evident, they will pursue their

struggle evon though they may have to fight arainst U.s. authorities.

Rivero Collado affirned that the group that attacked the waterzate

building was made up of six persons, hut that at the last moment it was decided

that the sixth member should not be there.

This sirth

individual, he advised, is nomed Angel J. Terrer. In

addition, the direct participation of lionel Artime Buesa, the civilian leader

of the Playa Girón invasion and a CIA agent for many years, who approximately

two years ago put torether a plan to assascinate the head of state of Panama,

General Omar Porrijoe, has not been revealer.

Rivoro Collnin aigo lied in tir laban omnierrerolution rien Miko

Suárez Ferrándor and Mamborto Táror to tha liatergate case, as well as tagarco

Buttari and millionaire Bebé

Rebozo.

Going further into the mestion of the terrorist campaign of the

fascist groups in Miami and other places in the l.So, the interviewee said

that lately there have heen confrontations among the fascist "worms".

He explained

that the so-called hero üroup, a terrorist gang punlicly

admitted the assassination ot losé clías de la lorriente, accused of havine

stolen the funds of the "Flan torriente" which were earmarked to fight the

Revolutione

105-224144-101

• 5.

32

DocId: 32302356 Page 38

---

## Page 39

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USe 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

few weeks after the ascassinatin

of lorriente, Rivero Collado

said, urnesto rodricer, premident of the Christion lemocratio Farty in exile,

was also assassinated in Miami hy several shots.

lour days after the death of forriente, the head of "Cuban Power"

in 1968 and ring-leader of the terrorist parma, Arturo Rodriguez Vives, was

assassinated in New York, and at the end of murst of this year the leader

of the Cuban Nationalist Movement, an

invader of Girón, Héctor Diaz Limonta,

was strangled in Union City, New Jersey.

"this, Logically, is a small, insinificant part of what has been

called the internal war which exists within the counterrevolution," liver

Collado summarized.

"I should say that terrorism in the enitaph of the counterrevolution,"

he concluded.

Rivero Collado

was

fluent at all times and answered each question

with sneed and

precision

asked mout his future plans, he announced that he is preparing a

book in which he tells the airy of the counterrevolution in exile, covering

the period from the tounding of La Kosa Blanca in January 1959 to the Water

gate affair.

"I am hichly honoured and pleased to have returned to my country

after so many years of absence," he told the newspapermen. "In the short time

that I have been here I have toured the country from one end to the other and

I have been

able to ralize honestly the extraordinary work of social trans-

formation which is being carried on by the Cuban Revolution."

This transformation, he concluded, places our country in on out

standing rosition

amore the nations of the contemporary world.

105-224416-101

DocId: 32302356 Page 39

---

