# docid-32399329

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

•-----------------.

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10112-10157

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 59294 Date:

06-14-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

CIA

FROM : KING, J.C., C/WHD

TO : COS HABANA

TITLE : MEMO ON PERSONNEL

TASKING AND PROCESSING

DATE

10/11/1957

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS : PERSONNEL

WITHHELD

JFK ASSASSINATION

LCFLUTTER

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW

: 06/22/04

COMMENTS

: JFK41 : F4

20040112-1033641

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10112-10157

' 53294 DocId:32399329

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Co,

SECRET

HKH-W-2380

(201-168881)

AIR

Chief of Station, Habana

Chief, WHD

References:

Operational

Arthur G. VAIVADA

HRS-W-1326 (not sent to

Habana)

HRS-A53 September 1957

I. At the time the request was submitted to convert Subject fron Con-

tract Agent to Career Agent

status, a provisional covert security clearance

was granted for that purpose.

KUSODA recently advised that a full covert

security clearance had been granted for the use of Subject as Principal

Agent, under official cover, in Project AMPHODARCH, in accordance with the

provisions set forth in the

memorandum of the Chief, KUBARK, dated 14 Feb-

ruary 1949, entitled "Security and Operational Clearances."

2. At the same time, KUSODA requested the following action to be taken:

a. That full overseas traces and such actual overseas

investigation as is possible be taken on Subject and

his wife and her family; and,

b. That arrangements be made to have Subject affronted with

a LCFLUTTER test as soon as feasible.

3. Headquarters has already initiated the action set forth in Para 2 (a)

requesting full traces and investigation of Subject and his wife and her

family in Panama City and San Jose.

To date only San Jose has replied with

HRSA-2938, copy of which was sent to Habana.

Station Habana is requested to

take appropriate action to cover Subject's and his wife's activities during

their residence in Habana, and inform Headquarters of the results.

4. With reference to KUSODA's request for a LCFLUTTER test on Subject,

they have expressed their desire to have Subject tested in the field as

soon as possible, or as soon as the appropriate arrangements can be made.

KUSODA has indicated that they will be happy to assist in arranging this test.

NW 53294 DooId:32399329 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Copy

7, 3

HKH-W-2380

Page 2

However, Headquarters would appreciate receiving the Station's views and

comments on the matter as quickly as possible so that KUSODA may be advised

and can make the necessary planning.

The Station is reminded that Subjectssof covert security clearances

are not to represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented as,

employees of KUBARK. Your attention is also called to the fact that a covert

security clearance does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions

KUBARK Regulation 10-210. Therefore, if the station should desire at a

later date to change the status or use of Subject, a request for clearance to

cover any proposed change should be submitted to Headquarters.

11 October 1957

Distribution:

3 - Habana

J. C. KING

Chief, WHD

SECRET

Copy

HH 53294 DocId: 32399329

Page 3

---

