# docid-32300854

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10277-10189

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3267-591

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/15/1964

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JRO, ASSOC, GAMBLING, B/F INT, TRA, LV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32300854

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE -3674*1403943)

i tary it

i-do

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 6/15/64

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SAC, JOS ANGELES (92-113) (C)

JOHN ROSSELLI, aka

AR

LA 4268-C advised that on 6/10/64, he observed

ROSSELLI at the Friar's Club in Beverly Hills, California,

and that ROSSELLI was in conference with Dr. VICTOR CLANDS

IRVINGS LINK, and BEN TEITELBAUM.

The same informant advised

that on 6/11/04, ROSSELLI was at the Friar's Club and

ROssELLI met with GooD Ght, former Governor. of the

State If California, and a young man, unknown to Informant, l

who was with KNIGHT. Informant observed that after KNIGHT

concluded his conversation with ROSSELLI, he conferred with

The same informant advised that on 6/12/64, he

observed that ROSSELLI, MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN, BEN TEITELBAUM,

and Dr. VICTOR LANDS, and the unknown young man, who was

WITh GOODWIN KNIGHT on 6/11/04, held a conference for about

fifteen minutes in one of the conference rooms

Club. The conference lasted from about 1:45 P.M. until 2:00

P.M. After the conference, ROSSELLI left the club and returned

about 3:45 P.M., at which time he was observed in conference

with BEN TEITELBAUM.

Informant also learned that on the evening of

6/12/64, ROSSELLI and FRIEDMAN intended to see the show at

the Mousin Rouge, and then go to La Rue Restaurant for dinner.

Bureau (REGISTERED)

1 - Los Angeles

Las VEgas (InTO) (92-467) (REGISTER E

3567-591

HFD/ seb

(5)

HE JUN 17 1864

8 00

Approvedel

EX-103

Sent

M

er

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32300854 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-113

PETRINO then agreed to the telephone call and he

said to LUBIN,

"Tell JOHNNY I couth't get in any

way......

I don't like them looking to grab me....it isn't nobody...

coppers are on me...I don't want this

guy to get heated up".

LUBIN then picked up his telephone and asked for the number

of the Friar's Club, dialed the number that was apparently

given to him, and asked for JOHN ROSSELLI.

ROSSELLI was not

there and LUBIN declined to leave a message, and said he would

call back later.

as a result of a conversation between LUBIN and HAROLD MELTZER,

that there are

result

on 6/1/64, the same source furnished information,

twenty guys "out here" that owe Chicago money

and there are people out here from Chicago to collect from

these guys.

The possibility exists that the PETRINO conver-:

sation with LUBIN pertains to the information concerning the

people who owe money to Chicago.

The Las Vegas Office advised that ROSSELLI checked

into the Desert Inn Hotel, possibly on 5/26/64.

Information

has been previously furnished to the Bureau that ROSSELLI

allegedly left Los Angeles for Las Vegas on 5/28/64.

LVs10-C advised on 6/3/64, that ROSSELLI was still

at the Desert Inn Hotel, and was occupying this room with an

unknown female (believed to be KATHY HORDEN) •

- 3 -

DocId: 32300851 Page 3

---

