# docid-32293114

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10210-10390

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-81285-1ST NR 46

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Casef:N 54046 Date:

08-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CV

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 06/20/1960

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

REW, INTV, RAND, BUSS ACT, USSR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54046

16

DocId: 32293114

Page 1

---

## Page 2

10/12/97

CLASSIFIED BY S668

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

-SECRET

DIRECTOR, FBI

100-44967)

June 20, 1960

@ (4

SAC, CLEVELAND

(134-591)

ITS FSFORKAGION CONZAINED

WENSEN IS UNCZAZSTS 1ED EXCEPT

WELERG SECHN OTHEANISE.

H. JAMES RAND, III,

"ISCALANEOUS INTORATION CONSTAIG AET

(ESPIONAGE)

00; Cleveland

Declassity ah: OR

Reference is made to New York letter and Letterhead Memorandum

dated June 14, 1960, captioned GEORGE H.

BOOKBINDER, IS-R.

On June 16, 1960, Mr. RAND was interviewed at his request

concerning information on ROBERT EDWARD WEBSTER, IS-R.

Mr. RAND stated that he felt that WEBSTER'S chances of

leaving the Soviet Union were extremely good, however, it

was his opinion that without a doubt WEBSTER would be

approached by Russian officials to perform some service

for them in this country prior to allowing his release.

RAND said that the only complicating factor in WEBSTER'S

case at this time is the fact that the girl that he was

dating in Moscow is now six months pregnant, however, this

does not appear to be a completely limiting factor inasmuch

as she has never received a divorce from her husband.

(S)KAt this time RAND stated that for all intents and purposes S

his operation on behalf of the Air Forcel with the Russians CS]

is now terminatedy His last trip to Russia was for the

specific purpose of closing his office in Moscow, disposing

of his office furnishing's and returning an automobile of

his that he had transported to Russia.

As has been previously

reported by RAND, he has closed his Washington, D.C., office

and at the present time is still maintaining his offices

in Dusseldorf,

Germany, and Geneva,

Switzerland, in order

to ascertain if these offices might be of any benefit in

the general operations of the Rand Development Cerporation.

RAND stated that he was maintaining his New York Office

with GEORGE BOOKBINDER in charge on this same basis in order

to see if it is an economic feasibility for the Rand

Development Corporation.

Pursuant: to. this, RAND stated

he has instructed BOOKBINDER to maintain his contacts with

various Russian nationals in'the United States in order to

2 - Bureau

(RM)

1. - New York

(105-31003) (GEORGE H. BOOKBINDER) (RM)

3m91

1946M

1105-81285-

1

105-3157

GEORGE

H. BOOKBINDER)

NOT RECORDED

1

- 105-3792 (ROBERT

EDWARD WEBSTER)

100 JUN 29.1960

C: eds

SECRET

10: 050

96%

ORIGINAL COPY FILED IN

800

HIH

54046

DooId: 32293114

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Usi,

CV (234-591)((U)

(ascertain if any information of value might come his way

which RAND could pass on to this Bureau.

He said that he

would continue to keep the Cleveland office advised of

all information relative to Soviet activity in the United

States that came to his

attention through himself or any

of his employeds or associates ely

RAND statea that he

anticipates no further business

dealings, with the ussh inasmuch as the prineipal possibility

of such business dealings was through the lend-lease negotlations

which are now completely dormant.

No further action is being taken at this time in

che clevelana Divaion. 2r

a closed status.

The Bureau will be kept advised expeditiously

of any information furnished by Mr. RAND.

FLOSE

RECREA

NH 54046

DooId:32293114 Page 3

---

