# docid-32286785

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10196-10061

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-1013

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI.

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/06/1963

5

SGI, WHEREABOUTS, INTV, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

NW 45792 DocId:32286785 Page 1

57

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rov. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

FBI

Date:

6/6/63

PLAIN

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

SAC, NEW YORK (92-793)

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA aka

AR

(00: CHICAGO)

Re Kansas City airtel, 6/3/63.

On 5/24/63, PCI.

was interviewed

in the NYO by SAS CHARLES G. DONNELLY and PAUL G. DURKIN.

It was explained tol

that the FBI had no interest

CA..

in nor investigation of the MC GUIRE sisters.

He was told

that the subject of our investigation is SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

and as such it is necessary to interview various associates

Of GIANCANA in order to determine his whereabouts. (U)

stated that he is aware of the FBI's

interest in GIANCANA

and understands that as GIANCANA is

P.1

going with PHYLLISHAC GUIRE at the present time, it would NUel:

be necessary to know the whereabouts of the MC GUIRE sisters.

He stated he would be glad to cooperate with the FBI and he NiPALA

was advised of the confidential nature of this relationship.

He was advised not to contact the office? personally and not li

to consider himself an employee of the FBI (U) CAN Ali

stated he did not like SAMUEL GIANCANA

and he knows GIANCANA to be one of the biggest hoodlums in

Chicago, He advised he would be very happy if PHYLLIS broke

3) - Bureau (92-3171)

92-3171-1013

• Chicago

.. (92-349)

Kansas City (92-138)

3

JUN 7

1963

1 - New York (137-9579)AL INTORTA

DONTAINED

1 - New York

CGD: pcs

(92-793)

HERE

(10)

Approved:

53 JUN Special

Agent in Charge

OTHER 4

NW 45792 DocId: 32286785 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-793.

up with SAM as he can see no advantage to the MC GUIRE trio

to have PHYLLIS going with SAM. He stated SAM is no good

for the MC GUIRES. (U)

He stated PHYLLIS met SAM about three years ago

in Las Vegas when she was very "down in the dumps" as she

needed $28,000 very badly. At this time she started running

with SAM and he stated now PHYLLIS appears to be "power crazy"

and knows the only way for power is to have money." He said

SAM does give her money, but he does not know how much.

Likewise, SAM also gives

her presents, but he does not know

the value of these presents. (U)

He said SAM GIANCANA is trying to break up the

trio. He keeps making sly remarks of their act with his

purpose being to get PHYLLIS to do a solo.. He tells PHYLLIS

that he can make her a big movie star by herself if she will

only leave the trio. MURRAY KANE is, the manager of the MC GUIRES

and has been for many years. The MC GUIRES make about $600,000

per year and this means about $58,000 per year for MURRAY KANE.

He feels sure that MURRAY KANE would be most happy to have GIANCANA

out of the picture. (U)

Concerning the recent travels of GIANCANA,

stated that the MC GUIRE sisters appered at the Cave in Van Couver,

B*tttsh Columbia, in the end of April, 1963, following which they

came to WILLIAMSON's home in Calgary, Canada. GIANCANA accompanied

do tatting tao sin

PHYLLIS there. They stayed three or

• four days when PHYLLIS and

SAM went to Las Vegas and Palm Springs, California.. SAM had

obtained a part in FRANK SINATRA's movie "Come Blow Your Horn" for WI

PhyLuts. SAM then went to Hawaii with FRANK&

A and PHYLLIS.

went on to Pittsburgh. SINATRA is reportedly having trouble with

the Internal Revenue Service, not being able to show how he earned

all the money he is spending. _

LUCILLE BALL (actress) is supposed

to have introduced SINATRA to

a very wealthy widow, name unknown,

from Hawaii and SINATRA is considering marrying her to account

for the money he is spending.

- 2 -

OTHER 4

NW 45792 DocId: 32286785 Page

3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-793

PHYLLIS did not know GIANCANA was going to Hawaii

and became furious with him and called him and he then joined

the MC GUIRE sisters in Pittsburgh. From Pittsburgh, they all

came to NYC arriving on Sunday, 5/19/63. GIANCANA stayed' at

i Sunday 3h19/65

PHYLLIS' apartment, 525 Park Avenue, Manhattan. (U)

He stated GIANCANA left NY either Monday or Tuesday,

returning to Chicago.

Concerning VIC COLLINS,

I said he is a

Canadian citizen now applying for a work permit in the United States.

COLLINS used to work with

in Calgary and was a

good worker while

was present, but when

left, did not do anything. l

therefore, fired

COLLINS although there are no hard feelings between them and

COLLINS went to the sisters and got a job as a general handy

man for them. He is presently staying at the Madison Hotel,

NYC, and is the one who got the ticket for SAM GIANCANA to

fly to Chicago either Monday or Tuesday. (U)

Concerning his knowledge of GLANCANA, he said

GIANCANA does have a one-suiter suitcase which he takes with him

on his travels.

SAM usually carries quite a large sum of money.

He has never seen SAM obtainingmoney from people in the various

He stated GIANCANA likes Italian food and while

in NY, will usually visit the Chambord Restaurant, the La Scala,

the 21 Club or El Morocco. He stated SAM usually stays at

PHYLLIS' apartment in NYC, although he has heard of him staying

at the Waldorf Astoria and also the Madison Hotel. (U)

OTHER 4

- 3

NW 45792 DocId: 32286785 Page 4

---

## Page 5

#di°

NY 92-793

While in Miami, SAM will usually stay at the

Fountainbleau Hotel.

said he once saw SAM giving

money to DUKE STEWART (ph), who is some sort of a manager at

the Fountainbleau.

This was a secret kind of gift as SAM was

giving it to STEWART in the basement of the Fountainbleau.

He

also visits Sonkens and Puccinis in Miami. Another favorite

spot in Miami is Capras Restaurant on Biscayne Boulevard.

As a matter of fact, VINCENT CAPRA, on one occasions, while

SINATRA and GIANCANÁ were at the Fountainbleau, cooked a

number of meals for them and brought them

restaurant to the Fountainbleau for them. U

Concerning Las Vegas,

stated that at

one time he mentioned to PHYLLIS that it appeared that Jews

had the upper hand in Las Vegas. PHYLLIS stated that this is

not true, it just appears the Jews run things, that in reality,

the Italians run it and put the Jews up as a front. (U

SAM also supposedly owns the Cal-Neva.

The Riviera

in Las Vegas, according to PHYLLIS, is also controlled by the

criminal element. (U)

On one occasion, PHYLLIS did state that due to

the

pressure from Fedral authorities, it is difficult for

"members of the mob" to meet and

she related that

sometimes they rent a hearse and meet in the hearse. (U)

stated he himself is going to leave

NYC and return to Calgary on either 5/25 or 26/63.

He stated

he will recontact the agents when he returns to NYC. 'He will

check his telephone bill to determine if GIANCANA made any

calls from_Calgary and if so, will furnish the numbers to the

agents. (V)

In view of the above,

was considered a PCI

and a case was opened in the

NYO.

(U)

On Saturday, 5/25/63, PCI

telephonically

contacted SA DONNELLY at home through the NYO switchboard.

He indicated somebody else was with him and could not talk

freely. However; he indicated GIANCANA had telephonically

contacted PHYLLIS MC GUIRE on Friday, 5/24/63

and was

Dominican Republic (this was subsequently verified): (U

- 4-

OTHER 4

NW 45792 DocId: 32286785 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NY 92-793

On 5/27/63, SA DONNELLY received a letter at the

NYO in a Regency Hotel envelope (residence of

in NYC) containing the schedule of appearances of the MC GUIRE

sisters up until 9/2/63. (W)

It is believed by the NYO that

would be an

excellent source of information concerning the travels of the

MC GUIRE sisters and knowledge of GIANCANA's presence with then u

did not express any fear of GIANCANA to the

agents and it is believed that l

Inccöuldot be best

directed by agents of the Chicago Office or the NYO due to

their knowledst be cost air however, any contact with

must De most discreet. (U

Therefore,

it is suggested the Kansas City Office

recontact ROBERT

MARTIN and attempt to have him have

contact agents of the NYO or Chicago Office when

next in one of these cities and arrangements can be made to

reinterview him.

OTHER 4

5

-

NW 45792 DocId: 32286785 Page 6

---

