# docid-32313456

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10330-10067

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-107261-503

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BT

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 07/31/1964

'PAGES:

42

SUBJECTS:

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

w9.1

|HH 46031 DocId:32313456 Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

31.

FD-263.(Rev. 5-1-59)

8/ 3.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

BUTTE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

KANSAS CITY

TITLE OF CASE

OINUTEMEN"

DATE

7/31/64

REPORT MADE BY

THOMAS H. ZOELLER

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/2-7/29/64

INFORMATION CONCERNING

(INTERNAL SECURITY)

PEC.

ST-103

, 3, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 33

de?

REFERENCE

Report of SA THOMAS H. ZOELLER, Butte, 6/10/640

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINES

HEREIM IS UECLASSIFIEL

BATE al.90 8Y9803200 CAL

INFORMANTS

TYPED BY

kld

9.3.

33-42

BT T-1 is PSI

michael

CC TO: .

REQ. REC'D.

RotO

12165

ANS.

4 dey

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW RE?

62-1072614503

JEE COVER PAGE B

7).

2

Bureau (62-107261) (Reg.)

Butte (100-8307)

REC- 15

& AUG 3 1964

¡capy &/ ENC-817RB

EnC Vo Dissemination Record of Attached Roport

Notations

Agency

G-2

enT

RAб(06-))

Reguest Recd.

SECREt

SERViCE

Date Fwd.

5-13-

6x

How Fwd.

She cha

OTHER 4

NW. 46031 DocId:32313456 Page 2

---

## Page 3

: D-204 (Hev. 3-3-59) #

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1 - Special Agent in Charge, U. S. Secret Service,

1

Spokane, Washington (Reg.)

- Investigator in Charge, ATTD, San Francisco, Calif, (R

1

ONI, 13th Naval District, Seattie, Wn. (Reg.)

McChord Air Force Base, Washington (Reg.)

1 - Region IV, 115th INTC, Fort

Douglas, Utah (Reg.)

THOMAS H. ZOELLER

7/31/64

Office:

BUTTE

Field Office File #: 100-8307

Bureau File #: 62-107261

Title:

"MINUTEMEN"

16239 18 304. 99817193

118-21.92 9803RDDICAL

Character:

INFORMATION CONCERNING

(INTERNAL SECURITY)

Synopsis:

ROY GEORGE CROSBY, Jr., Missoula, Montana, Claims

to have met with ROBERT DePUGH at Idaho Falls, Idaho, about

mid-May, 1964, at which time CROSBY agreed to be Montana

"Minutemen" organizer. DePUGH told CROSBY there are two to

three thousand "Minutemen" in Montana, but CROSBY discounts

this, estimating there might be one thousand; not over 1,500.

Since mid-May CROSBY has contacted at least 250 individuals

in Montana whom he considers active participating members.

CROSBY will not furnish names.

any other organization and claims most "Minutemen" contacted

will have nothing to do with JOHN BIRCH Society as they con-

sider JOHN BIRCH Society an extremist group.

"Minutemen"

correspondence furnished by CROSBY set out.

Additional

activities and contacts of GRANVILLE McCOLLOUGH and ROBERT H...

BURNS in Big Timber-Billings, Montana, area described.

BERNARD ALLEN KESSELKEIM, Libby, Montana, denies "Minutemen"

membership, stating he is a member of JOHN BIRCH Society.

PicCOLLOUGH

AND BURNS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND POSSIBLY

DANGEROUS.

-

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

IN 46031 DocId:32313456 Page 3

---

## Page 4

BT #100-8307

ACTIVITIES AND CONTACTS OF

GRANVILLE E. McCOLLOUGH AND

ROBERT H. BURNS IN THE

BILLINGS - BIG TIMBER, MONTANA

AREA

BT T-1 furnished information on June 8, 1964, that

he was advised on that date by GRANVILLE E. McCOLLOUGH that

a meeting would be held in Billings, Montana, that evening.

At approximately 7:30 p.m.,

the following individ-

a-s met at the Standar

Billings:

ORAN VILLE

84 Grand Avenue,

GRANVILLE

L. NOCOLL OUGH; BILLINGS, MONT

BORN 12-16-1913

BEEKLY (Identified as

-BERSON KRAGREES: DILLINGS, MONT

TIMM Identified

BORN/-11 - 1921

ERNEST WAYNE

TIMM) ;

NO S6 RIVERSIDE BILLIONT

JAMES REINEKING, (Identified

JAMES WHITCOMB REINEKING) ;

BULLINGS, DON

BORN 3-28-927 DONE DATINEX.

DONALD WHITNEY, Owner of the

(Identified asSTANDARD SERVICE STATIoN

DONALD ALBERT /WHITNEY):

847 GRAND AVE

BILLINGS, MONI

At the station it was decided to hold the meeting

at TIMM's residence located at 4036 Riverside, Billings.

TIMM has a cabinet shop at the rear of his residence and

the above individuals entered the cabinet shop at ten-minute

The meeting was conducted by McCOLLOUGH who indi-

cated the purpose of the meeting was for the individuals

present to become acquainted with each other. McCOLLOUGH

- 18 -

NW 46031 DocId:32313456 Page 4

---

## Page 5

BT #100-8307

McCOLLOUGH again discussed armor plating a Cadillac

automobile and it was agreed this would be done.

No definite plans were made for another meeting but

McCOLLOUGH indicated he would contact them when the next meet-

ing was to be held.

for some reason

was unable to do so.

It was also BT I-l's understanding from comments !

BORN 10-hlad by MCCOLLOUGH that DONALD WHITNEY's brother, ROY MANNING

WITNEY also employed at this service station, is interested*

BT T-I also advised on June 8, 1964, that HARLEY

SCHRECK of 732 Miles Avenue, Billings, and employed by the

CONTINENTAL OIL COMPANY, had contacted BT T-l three or four

days ago and asked if he were interested in joining a vigilante

group in Billings.

He did not further identify the vigilante

group.

SCHRECK purchased a two shot .22 caliber Derringer

Magnum Hi-Standard, Serial #367464, at the time of this con-

versation.

MON

-

22

-

NW 46031 DocId:32313456 Page 5

---

## Page 6

BT #100-8307

BT I-1 furnished the following information on

July 2, 1964:

ROBERT HORATIO BURNS recently left a book with

BT T-l instructing him to read

' it and if possible purchase

two or three copies to give to associates

and friends.

The

book is titled "None Dare Call It Treason" by JOHN A.

STORMER

and it is published by Liberty Bell Press, P. O. Box #32,

Florissant, Missouri.

BURNS also indicated that he wanted to purchase

additional primers and some 30.06 bullets. Also BURNS is

obtaining an old model Lewis machine gun.

Also he desires

to obtain some cheap shot guns that could have the barrels

sawed off to twenty inches for use by their group.

INFORMATION CONCERNING AND

INTERVIEW OF BERNARD ALLEN

KESSILHCIM

- 32 -

NW 46031 DocId: DocId:32313456 Page 6

---

