# docid-32989509

## Page 1

File #;

62-CE-4203

Serial Scope:

6,9

DOTT.

DE. IL. NE

Ir.

NWL

---

## Page 2

=.7

VZCZCHQ0085

RR AL AT BA BH BS BU CE CG CI CV DN DE HO IP JN JK KC LA

ME MM MI MP MO NK NH NO NY OM PH PX PG PD RH SC SL SD SF SE SI

TP WF

DE HQ D085 1570104

ZNY EEEEE

R 852105Z JUN 78

FM DIRECTOR FBI (62 117290)

TO FBI ALBANY

BI ATLANTA

RBI BALTIMORE

RI BIRMING HAM

BI BOSTON

RBI BUFFALO

FI CHARLOTTE

BBI CHICAGO

FBI CINCINNATI

FBI CLEVELAND

RB I DENVER

BI DETROIT

FBI HOUSTON

FBI INDIANAPOLIS

FSI JACKSON

ISI JACKSONVILLE

(A)

NW 54972

pesta

DocId: 32989509

Page 2

62-4203-60

StARchED

SERIALIZEA

_INDEXED,

AFILED

Juli5 1978

SCotTCHATLOT

with 157-6/09

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO DE HQ A085 UNCLAS

FBI KANSAS CITY

FBI LOS ANGELES .

FBI MEMPHIS

FBI MIAMI

FBI MILWAUKEE

FBI MINNEAPOLIS

FBI MOBILE

IBI NEWARK

RI NEW HAVEN

FBI NEW ORLEANS

I NEW YORK

FBI OMAHA

FBI PHILADELPHIA

FBI PHOENIX

BI PITTSBURGH

FBI PORTLAND

FBI RICHMOND

FBI SACRAMENTO

FBI SAN DIEGO

FBI SAN FRANCISCO

TO

NW 54972 DocId: 32989509 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAGE THREE DE HQ

0985 UNCLAS EFT O

FBI SEATTLE

FBI SPRINGFIELD

FBI ST. LOUIS

FBI TAMPA

FBI WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE

BI

INCLAS E FT O

DUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA>

BUDED JUNE 12, 1978.

RE: BULET TO ALBANY, ET AL, AUGUST 25, 1967, CAPTIONED

"COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM, BLACK NATIONALIST-HATE GROUPS,

INTERNAL SECURITY" AND "BUAIRTEL TO ALBANY, ET AL, MARCH 49

1968, CAPTIONED "COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM, BLACK NATION-

ALIST - HATE GROUPS, RACIAL INTELLIGENCE"•

THE HSCA WHICH IS INVESTIGATING THE ASSASSINATION OF

JOHN F. KENNEDY AND MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., NOTING THAT

REFERENCED COMMUNICATIONS ASKED RECIPIENT OFFICES TO MAKE

FERIODIC REPORTS TO THE BUREAU, HAS REQUESTED THAT RECIPIENT

FIELD OFFICE FILES BE SEARCHED AND ALL REPORTS, LETTERHEAD

MEMORANDA, AIRIELS, LETTERS AND TELETYPES CONCERNING

NW 54972

DocId: 32989509 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PAGE FOUR DE HO 5985 INCLAS EFT O

DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., OR THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN •

LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE (SCLC) SUBMITTED PURSUANT TO REFERENGED

COMMUNICATIONS UP TO AND INCLUDING DECEMBER 31, 1968, BE

PREPARED FOR DELIVERY.

THE ASCA REQUESTED THAT OUR RESPONSE IN THIS MATTER BE

GIVEN TOP PRIORTY OVER ALL OTHER ASPECTS OF KING INVESTIGATION.

FBI HEADQUARTERS (FBIHQ) FILES HAVE BEEN PARTIALLY

PROCESSED IN RESPONSE TO A SIMILAR REQUEST, BUT TO INSURE

COMPLETENESS AND THOROUGHNESS, EACH RECIPIENT OFFICE FURNISH

FBIHQ IWO XEROX COPIES OF ANY COMMUNICATION MEETING ABOVE

CRITERIA. COPY SHOULD REACH FBIHQ BY JUNE 12, 1978.

ALL COPIES SHOULD BE CLEARLY LEGIBLE AND SHOULD BE SENT

REGISTERED MAIL, MAILED TO THE ATTENTION OF THE CONGRESSIONAL

INQUIRY UNIT., RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION, ANY QUESTIONS CAN

BE RESOLVED BY CONTACTING SUPERVISOR RICHARD C. BUSCHING,

EXIENTION 3685.

RECIPIENT OFFICES HAVING NO COMMUNICATION MEETING CRITERIA

ARE TO SO NOTIFY FBIHQ.

0085

NNNN1570109Z C E 3

NW 54972 DocId: 32989509

Page 5

---

## Page 6

VZCZCH00 085

RR AL AT BA BH BS BU DE CO CI CV ON DE HO IP U JA KOLA

ME MM ME NP MONK ON NO NY OM PH PX PO PD RM SO SL'SO ST. SE SI

TP. WE

DE NQ 00SS 1570184

ZNY EEEEE

.R

052105Z JUN. 78

'EM DIRECTOR FAI (62 1172003

TO FBI ALBANY

BI ATLANTA

FOT BALTIMORE

FS I BIRMING HAM

FBI BOSTON

PI BUFFALO

I CHARLOTTE

HAT CHECACO

BI CINCINNATI

FBI CLEVELAND

ISI DENVER

FBI DETROIT

FBI HOUSTON

SI INDIANAPOLIS

FBI JACKSON

BI JACKSONVILLE

62-4203

SEARCHED

INDEXED

SEALED PETE

JUN 5: 1978

FBI-CHARLOTTE

6

NW 54972•

Doold: 32969509

‹Page 6

---

## Page 7

PAGE TWO. DE HQ

TOI KANGAS CITY

FSI LOS ANGELES

FAX MOMP RI S

RSI MIAME.

BE MILWAUKEE

N2I, MINNEAPOLIS

BI MOBILE

BI NEWARY

DI NEW. HAVEN

ROX NEW ORLEANS

IGA NEW YORK.

PI OMANA

SI PHILACELPHIA

RI PHOENIX

18I PITTSBURGH

FBI PORTLAND

FBI RICHMOND

IBI SACRAMENIO

PB I SAN DIECO

FBI SAN FRANCISCO

QOSS UNCLAS

NW: 54972 Doeld: 32989509 : Page 7

---

## Page 8

PAGE THREE DE KG

2035 UNCLAS

F

2

F3% SEATTLE

&I SPRINGFJELD

BI ST. LOUIS

BI TAMPA

FBI RAGHINGSON. FIELD OFFICE

UNCLAS EF TO.

HOUSE SELECT COMMUTIZE ON ASSAGSINATIONS CHSCAY

19783

RE: BURET TO ALBANY, ET AL, AUGUST 2E4 1907, CAPTIONED

" COUNTERIATELLIGANCE

PROGRAM, BLASK NATIONALIST-HATE GROUPS

INTERNAL SECURITY"

AND "BUAIRTEL TO ALBANY 'ET AL, MARCH 4,

19,680 CAPTIONED "COUNTSRINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM, BLACH MATION-

ALIST - HATE GROUPS, RACIAL INTELLIGENCE".

•THE HSOA WHICH IS INVESTIGAZING INE ASSARSINATION OF

JOHN FO KENNEDY AND MARIIN LUTHER KING, JR.: NOCING. IMAT

REFFRENCED COMMUNICATIONS ASKED REGIPIENT OFFIOES 10 MAXE

FEPIODIO REPORTS TO THE BUREAU, HAS ASQUETED THAT FECIPIENT

FIELD OFFICE FILES BE SEARCHED AND ALL REPORIS, LETTERMEAD

IEMORANDAS AIRTELS, LETTERS AND TELETYPES CONCERNING

NW 54972 DocId: 32909509 Page 8

---

## Page 9

FAGE FOUR. DE NO 0085 UNCLAS EP TO

- DRE MARTIN LUTHER KING, JReS

09 THE SOUTHERN ChRISTIAN

LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE (SCLC) SUBNITIED PURSUANT TO REFERENCED

COMUNICATIONS UP TO AND INCLUDING DECEMBER 3I, 1903, BE

PREFARED FOR DELIVERY,

THE MSCA REQUESTED THAT OUR RESPONSE IN THIS MATTER BE

GIVEN TOP PREORTY DUER ALL OTKEN ASPECTS OF KIMO INVESTIGATION.

FBI MEADQUARTERS (FBINO) FILES HAVE BEEN PARTIALLY

POCESSCO, IN RESPONSE TO A SIMILAR REQUESTS SUT 10- INSURE

COMPLETENESE AND THOROUGANESS, EACH RECIPIENT OFFICE FURNISH

18 THE TUO XEROX COPIES OE MAY COMMUNICATION MEETING 430VE

CRITERIA. COPY SHOULD REACH-FBIMO BY MUNE 12, 1975%

ALE COPIES SHOUDD BE CLEARLY LEGIBLE AND SHOULD BE SENT

REE LETERED MAIL, MAILED TO THE ATTENTION OF IME CONGRESSIONAL

BOUIRY UNITS RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION, ANY QUESTIONS CAM

BE RESOLVED BY CONTAGING SUPERVISOR RICHARD GO BUSCHING.

EXTENTION 3685 A

RECIPIENT OFFICES NAVING NO' COMMUNICATION METING GRITERIA

ARE TO SO NOTIFY FOING.

s BT

986S

WNNN 157010S 2: 0 E 3

NW 54972

DocId: 32989509

Page 9

---

## Page 10

6/9/78

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

ATTENTION:

CONGRESSIONAL: INQUIRY UNIT&

RECORDS LANAGIMENT DIVISION

MOM: SAG, CHARLOTTE (62-4203)

ASSES SMARTEN CHEN IT

Re Bureau telctype, 6/3/75g

Enclosed herewith for FBIHQ are two (2) xerox

copies of the below listed documents tnich were obtained

fron a file zeviev of Charlotte file 157-6109.: These

are the only documents unich deal with or mention elther

MARTIN LOLICE KING,

Loatership Conference (Scuc) s

or the Southern Christian

Charlotte letter to the Bureal, 9/24/63- (157-6109-879)

Charlotte lotter to the Bureau, 10/29/68. 157-6109-11)

Charlotte letter to the Bureau, 1214/68. (157-6109-15)

All of these letters are captioned, "COUNTERINTELLIGENCE

PROGRAM, BLACK. NATIONALIST-HATE CROSES, RACIAL INTELLIGENCE.

tact tens

6) (RM)

6244203)

157-6109)

GCS bop

Mis

62-4203-

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED

Min list

10

---

