# docid-32424927

## Page 1

Date : 08/28/98

Page : 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: JCS

RECORD

NUMBER

: 202-10001-10196

RECORDS SERIES : FOIA SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: DOC 197

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note! :

Case#:NU 54214 Date:

19-13-20-17 m

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

OSD

FROM

TO

TITLE : MINUTES OF MEETING OF THE SPECIAL GROUP ON MONGOOSE 13

MARCH

DATE: 03/13/62

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1C

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Reviewed by JCS, OSD, State, CIA.

EXEMPT PER E.O. 13526

SEC 33(b) 58x5/1

DATE EXEMPTED:

MAR

2016

JS RE-REVIEW DATE 31 DEL 2Q 37

OKAY TO PLEASE AS RENTINA

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NN 54214 DocId: 32424927 Page 1

---

## Page 2

- 2 - 1:

Use of U.S. Military Personnel and Equipment. The

Group agreed that it would have to accept the proposicion that re-

supply operations will probably require U.S. military personnel

and equipment to include aircraft and seacraft. This point will

be included in che Guidelines. General Lansdale will arrange with

the Air Force to obtain an analysis of the risks which would be

Involved in

Supply operations over Cuba; this should be ready

by next week

at the meantime preparations should be begun for the

¿selection of

ersonnel and aircraft for necessary preliminaries,

such a "sheep-dipping." The Air Force will be asked fo cone up

within two weeks with an estimate of their capabilly

to provide

one or two parcraft for use in initial operations.

T2 connection with small boat operations, the Secre-

tary of Defedoe undertook to provide anything that was available

within the Defense establishment for which a requirement might be

established. It was pointed out there are no PT boats available

and chat foreign vessels will have to be acquired. CIA will present

a specific rea

for equipment other than PT boats, within the

next few days

4.

Mr. McNamara then raised the possibility that a decision

may be made which will make it impossible to use U.S. personnel.

He urged that planning, therefore, proceed on two tracks, assuming

that such personnel can be used in the initial phase but will not be

permitted later on. The Group felt that the Guidelines should re-

flect that, in the covert phase of this operation, U.S. personnel,

bases and equipment would be available but that the sicuation that

would exist in the face of a prohibition against such use must also

be studied immediately.

4. At the Attorney General's suggestion, General Lansdale

undertook to examine the possibility of sabotage or other means of

destroying the Soviet boats which have been or will be delivered

to Cuba

6

one proposed underwater reconnesssance of the babe eas

of Hava

da was approved, after the statement by General Lemnitzer

that amphibious planning cannot

seed without this and that the

risk is virtually non-existent.

It was agreed that the Group should give a status report

to higher authority this week, to include discussion of general

principles and guidelines.

Thomas A. Parrott

No discribution

1H 54214 DocId:32424927 Page 2

---

## Page 3

= 2

4

1)

Use of U.S. Military Personnel and Equipment. The

Group agreed that it would have to accept the proposition that re-

supply operations will probably require U.S. military personnel

and equipment to include aircraft and seacraft. This point will

be included in the Guidelines.

General Lansdale will arrange wich

the Air Force to obtain an analysis of the risks which would be

involved in

upply operations over Cuba; this should be ready

by next week /

Mr. McNamara then raised the possibility that a decision

may be made which will make it Impossible to use U.S. personnel.

He urged that planning, therefore, proceed on two cracks, assuming

that such personnel can be used in the initial phase but will not be

pernitted

later on. The Group felt that the Guidelines should re-

flect that, in the covert phase of this operation, U.S. personnel,

bases and equipment would be available but that the situation that

would exist in the face of a prohibition against such

use must also

be studied immediately.

4.

At the Attorney General's suggestion, General Lansdale

undertook to examine the possibility of sabotage or other means of

destroying the Soviet boats which have been or will be delivered

co Cuba

6

It was agreed that the Group

should give a status report

to higher authority this week, to include discussion of general

principles and guidelines.

Thomas A. Parrote

No distribution

HH 54214

DocId: 32424927 Page 3

---

