# docid-32341017

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10221-10410

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-1ST NR 394X

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 144 USC

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/26/1968

• PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, OBA, ACA, BOMB, SHIP, TG, MEXICO, SPAIN, GREAT

BRITIAN, TRADE, CUBA, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

1H 54027 DocId:32341017

Page 1

---

## Page 2

so giler, 5-28-64)

F B1

Date: 6/26/68

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-1742) (P)

SUBJECT:

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

IS .- CUBA

whup,

M. I. PR.

UGATIJK

Re Miami airtel to the Bureau, 6/19/68.

MM 635-S has been intensifying coverage of ORLANDO

BOSCH AVILA and during surveillance of BOSCH has accounted

for BOSCH's whereabouts, automobiles used and identified

associates of BOSCH.

PSI(UD) OSCAR ANGULO has established close contact

with BOSCH and has furnished information concerning his

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

plans to bomb an unidentified ship.

ANGULO reports BOSCH

claims to have four bombs which will be attached to a ship

ANGULO is main-

5/d08.

or ships by divers using scuba equipment.

taining almost daily contact with BOSCH and is reporting

LASSIN

BY SPb

daily to the Miami office.

As a result of information furnished by ANGULO,

the Miami office maintains spot checks on the residences

UNC

of BOSCH and his group.

The Miami office has prepared a memorandum with

HEREIN IS

names, photographs and complete physical descriptions of

DATE 10

BOSCH and his men and has furnished copies of this memorandum

locally to Customs, Coast Guard, FAd and local authorities'

having police jurisdiction over

the ports of Dodge Island

in Miami and Port Everglades in Fort Lauderdale.

place: 199-4474 (M1RR)

- Bureau (RM)

H

- Miami

RJD : jhk

(4)

Da Bishor

Appique₫

91-4474-

NOT RECORDED

203 JUL 9 1968

Sent.

a dur Rato

Special Agent in Charge

61 JUL 151968

Per

- LATIN A

CRICAN

NANSCH

Н# 54027 DocId: 32341017

Page 2

551.

ORIGINAL FILEL

---

