# docid-32315151

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of T992 744 USC 210T Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10339-10115

RECORD SERIES: BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-61-5-18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: JENKINS

TO:

BU

TITLE :

DATE: 03/09/1964

PAGES: 7

SUBJECTS :

STEVE MAGADDINO, (ELSURS)

• DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32315151

3

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• Released under the 'Tohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

United States Government

MEMORANDUM

TO

: SAC (92-61)

FROM

SUBJECT:

SA FRANCIS B. JENKINS

STEVE MAGADDINO, aka

DATE:

MAn 9 1964

Set forth below is information furnished by BU 280-0*

in the dates indicated:

December 11, 1963

CI advised that PETER A. MAGADDINO had a conversation

with two individuals who were identified to the informant as

NICK GABRIELE and JOE GUERRA (Ph) of Niagara Falls.

After a

general discussion

concerning business activities, the group was

joined by STEVE MAGADDINO.

STEVE MAGADDINO began to enjoin

against the administration in Niagara Falls and GUERRA mentioned

the name of CHET ENDS (Ph). It appeared that ENDS toid GUERRA

that he was being transferred back to the city market. MAGADDINO

then mentioned the name of TONY BAGS, who was identified as a

former policeman and is now an Assistant City Treasurer in

Niagara Falls.

GUERRA commented about a newspaper article

appearing on the preceding Sunday in which (Mayor DENT) LACKEY

made reference to a Mr. X.

GUERRA commented that LACKEY did

not mention TONY BAGS but that is who Mr. X is.

1 - 92-288 PETER A. MAGADDINO

1 - 92-407 PETER J. MAGADDINO

- 92-278

JOHN

CAMMILLERI)

- 92-404

JOHN FELL)

- 92-409

(JOE BONGIORNO)

1

= 92-53 (JOHN C. MONTANA)

92-61 euk 5 -

I Searched

Indexed.

'Serializeden Pter

1964

-FBI

BUFFALO

92-274 (SAM RANGATORE)

1

= 92-197 (VINCENT A. SCRO)

- 92-232 (JOSEPH FINO)

92-296, (PAT NATARELLI)

1

Hima

- 92-300 (CHARLES A. CASSARA)

92-399

(GRAFT AND CORRUPTION, NEW YORK STATE COUNTIES)

80-2009 (BUFFALO POLICE DEPARTMENT)

- 137-954

- 92-61 Sub 5

HBJ:

16 pac

DocId: 32315151 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collecto 505 4f- 1900 (1Jusc 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-61

The conversation continued in a general vein

concerning the political situation in Niagara Falls, New York,

and the recent testimony before the Senate Racket Committee.

STEVE MAGADDINO stated that his own family and the name of

MAGADDINO have been disparaged. In connection with the general

political situation, MAGADDINO

recounted a conversation he had

with some unidentified man who is apparently a politician.

MAGADDINO apparently told this individual, who was swearing

crying during the conversation, that he does not want to

see this individual, does not have to beg from anybody, and

does not need this individual.

It appeared that this individual

turned down some request of MAGADDINO at a previous time.

A general discussion concerning Senate hearings involved

(Assistant Chief of Detectives MICHAEL) AMICO. It was pointed

out by the speakers that testimony before the Committee granted

immunity from slander suits, but that AMICO would find himself

in court: if he said the same things in Buffalo. All of the

participants in conversation engaged in praising the subject,

who pointed out what a law abiding, respectful individual he is

in his life, and his only income is from legitimate business:

time had been had by the subject, his wife and a doctor from

Youngstown (Dr. GERARD CASCIO ?) at a wedding anniversary for

NICK PRICONATTI or TRICONATTI (Ph). PETER A. MAGADDINO then

pointed out that these allegations have ruined their family's

lives and that these people can make accusations without proving

it.

Subsequently, JOHN CAMMILLERI joined the group and the

conversation turned to the amorous exploits of the subject.

describing his amorous adventures as a young man with several

prostitutes and nonprostitutes, the subject related that one

prostitute wanted him to be her pimp, but he

emphatically refused.

He allegedly advised this woman that

he would do many things

to earn a dollar but would not condescend to earn one million

dollars as a pimp.

Thereafter the subject

and the others present

mentioned some of

the better known pimps of by-gone days, namely,

ENRICO GONDOLFO (ph) and two brothers, ANDY and MIKE LA MACHIA.

-2-

DocId: 32315151 Page 3

---

