# docid-32315664

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10342-10382

RECORD SERIES: DE

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-228-958

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DE

TO: CV

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/04/1963

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

'RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

ANTHONY GIACALONE (ELSUR)

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

12/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32315664

Page 1

48

---

## Page 2

/Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Colléction Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Tatel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUM

TO :

CLEVELAND (92-619)

DATE:

10/4/63

FROM:

SAC, DETROIT (92-448) (P)

SUBJECT:

DOMINIC CORRADO

AR

Re Detroit letter to Cleveland, dated August 9, 1963,

captioned "ANTHONY JOSEPH BESASE, AR"

Information has been received in Detroit from

4663 -DE 919-C* that ANTHONY (TONY GIACALONE and a person referred

to as "TOLEDO" were discussing DOMINIC CORRADO and his

business capabilities.

In the discussion TONY GIACALONE

stated he could not criticize DOMINIC CORRADO. "TOLEDO" is

believed to be ANTHONY. "WHITIE" BESASE of Toledo. This

individual stated neither DOMINIC nor his brother, TONY,

were capable of shining the toe of their father's shoe...

This

information has already been furnished to the Bureau and

Cleveland and caution should be used in disseminating this

information.d

DE 868-C-TE was contacted by SA BARRON T. CONKLIN

on 9/26/63, and was asked if there had been any trouble

between DOMINIC CORRADO and TONY GIACALONE. Informant furnished

the following information:

Last January DOMINIC CORNADO made the decision that

from now on the winning number in the numbers operation in

Detroit would not be changed and no matter what number might

come up this number would be paid off. ANTHONY GIACALONE

was very much opposed to this decision Profits in the

numbers operation in Detroit have almost disappeared and have

caused the numbers operation of the

Italians

to be cut back

and the number of employees cut....As a result of this,

TONY

GACALONE has been critical of this decision by DOMINIC CORRADO.

3 - Cleveland

8 - Detroit

(1 - 92-369)

(1 - 92-590)

(1

- 92-219)

92-228)

BTC/rar

1k

(11

(1: - 92-876)

(1 - 162-19)

(1 - 137-2885)

92-228-958

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED

INDEXED

FILED

DocId: 32315664 Page 2

---

