# docid-32155295

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10108-10006

RECORD_SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 44-1639-1713

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

AQ

TO: HQ

TITLE:

Released under the John

'. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

40-12-2017

DATE: 12/01/1963

PAGES:

14

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 105-82555-386

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

11/04/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/23/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 54463

DocId: 32155295

Page 1

---

## Page 2

report For

D-263 (Rev. 5-12-5

REPORTING OFFICE

ALBUQUERQUE

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTISATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

12/1/63

REFOrT MADE BY

SA STUART J. CAMERON

CHAÑACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE FERIOU

11/22/63 - 12/1/63

TYPED BY

mls

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka.

IS-R

ASTORENCE

Pureau teletona no aii sac's dated 11/30/63.

XIN STENTIVE DATA

scares ide

112e

sound ace being dest

us it is beltarao

forest eight

mut to make estan

The security Item

is follows:

incitedle:

"isked to in this ragon:

AQ 51-S contacted 11/23/63

3y SA GORDON JACKSON.

AQ 32-S contacted 11/22/53

by SA ROBERT J, WIRIE.

AQ 107-S contacted 11/23/59 by SA ROBERT J. WIRTH.

AQ 200-003 intacted 11/23/53 by SA ROBERT

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

9 - Bureau (REG. AM) (SD)

6; - Dallas: (REG. AM)

¿= ilkuquerque (1(15-991)

7: 106-16,46!

2-*9.43

Said

1639

-1713

twh

HH 54463 DocId:32155295 Page 2

---

## Page 3

AQ 105-991

In response to instructions set forth in Bureau teletype

to all SAC's dated 11/25/63 under caption, JACK LEON RUBY,

aka.;

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka. - VICTIM • DECEASED; CIVIL RIGHTS,

the

following criminal informants affiliated with or familiar

with

gambling matters, Albuquerque

Division, were contacted on 11/25/63

with negative results:

AQ 175-C, Albuquerque, New

Mexico, by SA J. JEROME MAXWELL.

AQ 133-C,

Albuquerque,

New

Mexico,

by SA J.

JEROME

MAXWELL.

PCI RALPH T. TRUJILLO, Albuquerque, New Mexico, by

• SA

J. JEROME MAXWELL.

AQ

129-C, Albuquerque,

New

Mexico, by SA CARY CARLTON,

AQ

1416,

Albuquereues

New

Mexico,

by SA STUANE

#. CAMERON:

AQ 18IC,

Albuquerque,

New

lexico,

by SA STUARI i

CAMERON.

PCK B. HOWARD

THORNE,

Roswell,

New Mexico, by SA WILLIAM

EDDY.

POL EDMOND

ZUFFEREY, ROSWell, New Mexico, by SA WILLIAM

AQ 178+0,

Grante,

New Mexico,

By SA CALVIN D. KNOTT

Glovis, Nev

Mexico, by SA FRANK W. HAINES.

POT KIT PETTIGREY, Clovis,

New Mexico, by SA FRANk

. W. RAINES,

Ort

Novenber

Farmingtou;

New Mextody

1963, AQ

204-0 advised

SA W: I WILKINSON,

this t

she oice set JACk SUBY in an untou

hotel

in Dallas

Texas, many years ago.

The informant was unable to

recall

the hotel

or other peopie during

this contact

Informant

never met victim.

COVEE PAGE

54463

DocId: 32155295

Page 3

---

## Page 4

AQ 105-991

On 11/25/63, AQ 195-PC advised SA STUART S. CAMERON

at Albuquerque, New Mexico,

that

approximately elever

months ago

be wet JACk RUBY at the daroussl club In Dulles norman montloned

met RUBY through

JACK HARDEE, JR.,

that he was from Albuquerque,

RubY advised that LoU LEssy at

Albuquerque was a good friend.

The informant learned through

HARDEE that RUBY came to Dallas, Texas,

from Chicago and that

a "Jewish boy" had the particular section of town where the Carousel

is now located "all sewed

up."

Informant states RUBY had a difficult

time breaking into the

area, but

that he is now quite vell off along

with the "Jewish boy," who also has a joint located one block from

the Carousel in an upstairs location.

HARks mentloned

tO AQ

195-PC Shot RUBY had & "good ip"

with the

Dallas Folice Depstment

The informant states tbis

would be borne out from his

observation by the fact that RUBY had

Bogirl operation where

drinks were pushed heavily and they had

no interforence from

the poliod Department

The informant Iney

01 20 specific connections

9s. th

the Polide Department and only

personally engaged

conversation

five to

ton minutes.

Informant stated he is not

guare of any

Chicago underworld connections

01

Husy or any subversive of extrenist connections.

He did not

khou of

103

any releronship bologed

the subjeet and the

Fair Plsy

Cubà

Computee

any

scuectation betuper

OSWALD LAd

noted

that

JACE. HARDES,

JB.,

aks. 1s presently

fugitive and

subject of

Urat

FORGERY Suvestigation o1

which

the Savannet Pivision 10

Oice of Krigin (Butile:

38 211661,

COVER PAGE

74 54463

DocId: 32155295

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Report Form

FD-263 (Rex, 5-12-55)

-

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

ALBUQUERQUE

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOU

12/1/63

REFORT MADE BY

11/22/63

- 12/1/63

TYrED E)

SA STUART S. CAMERON

CHARACTER OF CASE

mlg

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka.

IS-R

NEARENCE

Bureas teletrpo to ail Sac's dated 11/30/63.

ADXENISTRICIVS DATA

Braze

Me are being seat to tre draco?

as it is believed the Bursal nighi cut to make exisa osssemicalia.

730002/20013

The security indomants corexred to in thie export ers

as follows:

AQ 51-S contacted

11/23/63 by SA GORDON JACKSON.

AQ 32-S contacted 11/22/63 by SA ROBERT J, WIR .

AQ 107-S contacted 11/23/59 by SA ROBERT J. WILTE.

200-Pix concreted

11/23/63 by SA ROBERT ..

DO NOT WRITE 1:9-ACESEOU

4421639-11131

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

9 - Bureau (REG. AM) (SD)

66/ - Dallas

(REG. AM)

¿ - Altuquerque (105-991)

R- 100916.4161

7.

-86-4

Mich

NW 54463 DooId: 32155295 Page 5

---

## Page 6

AQ 105-991

In response to instructions set forth in Bureau teletype

to all SAC's dated 11/25/63 under caption, JACK LEON RUBY, 2ka.;

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aKS. - VICTIM - DECEASED; CIVIL RIGHTS,

the

following criminal informants affiliated with or familiar

with

gambling matters, Albuquerque Division, were contacted on 11/25/63

with negative results:

AQ 175-C, Albuquerque, New Mexico, by SA 3, JEROME MAXWILL.

AQ 133-C,

Albuquerque,

New Mexico, by SA J. JEROME MAXWElL.

PCI RALPH T. TRUJILLO, Albuquerque, New Mexico, hy SA

J. JEROME MAXWELL.

AQ 1280, Albuquerque, New Mexico, by SA CARY CARITON.

AQ 141.0, Albuquerque,

Mexico,

by SA STUART I. CAMERON.

AQ 181-C

Albuquerque, New Merico,

by SA STUAN ". CAMERON.

PCI

B HOWARD

THORNE,

Boswell, New Mexico, by SA WILLIAN

EDDY®

POI

BIDMOND

ZUFFEREY, Roswell, New Mexico, by SA WILLIAM

AC 178.C,

Grante,

New

mexico,

by SA CALVIN D. ANOMI.

POT , In

Clovis, New

Mexico,

by SA FRANK W. HAINES.

PCI KIT PETTIGREN, CLOVE;

New Mexico, by SA FRANK W. HAINES.

Weveabor

25g

1903g

AQ 304C AdVISed SA W. J. WILICINSON,

Farmington;

Mexico,

this t

she once Net JACK MUSY in an unknown

hotel in Dallas,

Texas, any years

ago •

The informant was unable to

recall the hotei

or other people

during this contact

Informant hss

never met

COVEE PAGE

HH

54463

DocId: 32155295 Page 6

---

## Page 7

AQ

89-27

On 11/25/63, AQ 195-PC advised SA STUART J. CAMERON

at Albuquerque, New Mexico, that approximately eleven months ago

he met JACK RUBY at the Carousel Club in Dallas, Texas.

Informant

JR., and when the

net rUBY through JACK HARD RUBY advised that LOU LEBBY at

informant mentioned

that he was from"Albuquerque,

Albuquerque was a good friend. The informant learned through

HARDEE that RUBY came to Dallas, Texas, from Chicago and that

a "Jewish boy" had the particular section of town where the Carousel

is now located "all sewed up."

Informant states RUBY had a difficult

time breaking into the area,

but that he is now quite well off along

with the "Jewish boy," who also has a joint located one block from

the Carousel in an upstairs location.

HARDEE mentioned to AQ 195-PC that RUBY had a "good in"

with the Dallas Police Department.

The informant states this

would be borne out from his observation by the fact that RUBY had

a B-girl operation where drinks were pushed heavily and they had

no interference from the Police Department. The informant knew

of no specific connections with the Police Department and only

personally engaged RUBY in conversation for five to ten minutes.

Informant stated he is not aware of any Chicago underworld connections

of RUBY or any subversive or extremist connections. He did not

know of any relationship between the subject and the Fair Play

for Cuba Committee or any association between OSWALD and RUBY.

It is noted that JACK HARDEE, JR., aka is presently

a fugitive and the subject of a UFAP FORGERY investigation of

which the Savannah Division is Office of Origin (Bufile: 88-21156),

COVER PAGE

1W 54463

DooId: 32155295

Page 7

---

