# docid-32293732

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10212-10008

HQ

62-9-12-437

Released under the John

Essassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45760 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

SAC, DL

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

07/15/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING, RACK AND SUBV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HW 45760

DocId: 32293732

Page 1

7

---

## Page 2

DL 94-55A - Sub

STEPHENS BOSCO (DL 165-92), MARVIN RALPH MARSHAL and RILEY

B. BAWCUM (DI. 165-134), and PHILIP STEIN (DL 165-37) • The

Dallas Office plans to interview each of these known book-

makers following their arrests by local officers, if possible:

Re: WILLIAM RAY DAVIS, aka

ITAR - GAMBLING; CONSPIRACY

On 7/11/63, DL 185-C-TE advised that DAVIS, along

with Dallas associate GEORGE W. OWENS, JR., DAVIS' partner

SMITH REYNOLDS, and Las Vegas card sharp LARRY PERKINS, had

been in Las Vegas and at Lake Tahoe, Nevada, during the past

week.

Informant did not know the purpose of their trip,

but

did state that DAVIS and OWENS returned to Dallas 7/8/63.

Inforant stated that REYNOLDS, who has set up an office in

the Adolphus Towers, Dallas, is acting as a front for DAVIS'

gambling activities, and is

using contacts made through this

office to steer "suckers" into rigged poker and gin games set

up by DAVIS in Dallas.

Informant also advised that Dallas dice hustlers

EDDIE TOM GREEN and LUKE HUGHES, had not only recently attended

the Odessa PrO-Am Golf Tournament, where they "took some

suckers" (including some unnamed

golf pros) in crooked dice

games, but had also left Dallas the previous week for Chicago,

they intended to set up some rigged dice games in

connection with the Shriner's Convention.

Informant had

previously identified a carrier of Las Vegas gambling funds

to New York as "ASH."

Informant now identifies this man as

"ASH" REDNICK (phonetic), who works or resides at the

Thunderbird in Las Vegas.

The above information has been

made known to interested offices by separate communications.

In addition to the above information, informant

also advised that on 7/9/63, he had been in Las Vegas and

had been in contact with NICK DONDOLAS. FrOm DONDOLAS,

informant had obtained information concerning a federal grand

jury's inauiries into the activities of

This information was

furnished Las Vegas and Los Angeles by separate Dallas communi-

cations.

JFK Law 10(a)2

2

62-9-12-4438

'HH 45760 DocId:32293732 Page 2

---

