# docid-32327486

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90064-10057

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

87-15374-33

Released under the John

= Kes nation Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

C1

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 09/10/1951

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

VICTOR EMANUEL PEREIRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

y9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32327486

Page 1

9

---

## Page 2

7

ARG

RV.21

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

87-1753

I CASTONIMATROAT: EL PISO

PONDET MADE 1T

CISEDERI

16/10/51

375,

51.130

14723/51

RES CO RATS

PEREIRA,

iE3.

•CONSPI

1 DERS 202

Sturry

20Z;

PTRNNSPORBAGION GEE

305

PROPRANTE

JAIL FRAUD

275-7002

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Laceratos renalted subtects deaded cel

22213022

JOYOR PEREIRA O1 347, 000:00

1953

CadIlIeS.

Information

develored subjectiosy

Papara restalne dia ex-ulfe at aints fourt

coltious,

21a"s Court determined to bes

a nee apartment development and address to

1739 Minks Court, Apartment Fo

•Surveillances

manusined at sidress inproductive as

to 10-

carisa

03 6/9/51

BONIE ORATOR,

ernie appeared at Columbus Resident

stated other and told aer

suoject

PEREIRA

1à trouble,

that E31 following der,

end told her

to come

hose Imediately.

CRAGOR appeared

cooperative end furnished all telezrons and letters

1a zen possession,

as roll as Information regarding

telescone.

calis walch sae

had

received. from

sub fect

Al30 31raed

= walter of searca

of saiety deposit

bor; desosit bor exanined,

but nothine found.

sents apprehended by bureau Agents,

Tiew

fork

Sus-

city,

8/21/51°

3дe8

consulting aith attorney, BONIE

CPINOR released 1951 Cadillac, i. 516210295,

but

on sarice of attorney rofused to rolease furniture.

car stored,

merchents

Garage,:

Columbus, Onlo, with

understandin- ultinate receivér to pay storego.

- P.

•OPIAR DESTINIED

81 didnto tutorian

- Eurodu

El Paso (1-USA):

New York

- Cincinnatl

PRIO PONTORATIAL REPORT ARO TiS CONTINES

25 00 мон

15324

RECORDED-SA

SE 151

3 130.

1e!

200

102

L

NH 54462

DooId: 32327486

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CINCHATT

407-1753

On Aurust 4,

1951,

the Canses CIty Gaslee

sirised that conclaints nad seen filed badore tae

States Goralssloner,

united

22 Peso, Tezas, araince note

charing then dith ConspiredE,

Interstate joanacobatter

Stolen Property and Mall Fraud.

Phese conclaints done bened

interatlos furnisaed by tre.

PENDRESs

Roonally

JC:CS 2523234,

"en Mexico, who stated

tant eaten

she carried subject PERDIPA In Kansas

lisaoul,

20 19x 25, 1951, ana that tacresater F223754 6-2

LEE deErauded her. o2 a

total of 117,000.00 and = 1950 Castilac.

A check for +35,000.00 vas traconontes

intenstate by maaazza

Dao malls

Move does

in finterence ed

freud ineszuca ag a

chece for 135, 000.00 ma= desosited ie=

collection in

in faso bear for pument arios.

2E923023

PERDIRA's Los Angeles bank.

€0103

an estonobile deeler in

This teletipe giso airised thet d02RES

Kanses

vises

lissouri, bai ado

that he

soli subject PEREIRA s 1952 Cadillac sixtietro

clus

coups, notor amber 516210296, with daite eidodstl

General

tires

02497 22, 1951.

stonid ancied tiant te has re-

calved & telephone call about daly es, 155i,

PEREIRA "nO

stated

fran subject

columbus, drie.

that he dis residing la finis dourt,

A search of the City Telephone Directory

for the city of Columbus was made, however, ao Finis Court has

laceted.

BUD Delorr, Orner of Sagilae Hotel, io Is

scouanted men motels in the Columbus,

visod that no has never care of a lins

sure in

and 1x3

colurbüs,

no one by the nano of kniG who operates

motor court in columbus, Dalo.

Investiration,

on Aurust s, 1951, while conductine erotior

reflectinp a

SA PERILE C. SACTS noted a nei street marker,

fied

these

street by the nare of fines Court, ond he lienti-

counts sa boin? a nei apartment devcloment orrec

by lnci Stewart, Inco, Colunbu:, Onlo.

- 2 -

87-15384-33

-.LA

200

101

L

NW 54462 DooId: 32327486 Page 3

---

## Page 4

7

5685 RV.3

CENSES ASE 537-1753

T2€

7011011as 1110321

conducted

B5RT2E C.

SA0:5

and

D1:127

A 1951 the door Blasgiatect top converticle

white sidencl?

Goneral tres, besting

Cranora

1-90535,

des deserted banded in Erase of e rou se

Estants at 1759 Flags court.

=2aPT and ber 32 tear old tea ties reside in Apartacat

=

1759 Flars Court.

She sirises that d2sa

Parad has only

at tials addregs for a scoot tire,

== about 22 to 21

and has a husband anore reno do VICtor. los.

zoE aârised that tis. PERRi stated that taez had come from

Dazzone, but that that des not

mein some and that tres bed

aneriously tired in lexes end Samizoorico

See alao advised

East las, PERRI stated that nes busuend is a trerella@mara

•75.

MEDOE earlece that ter saunhter often

is enplojed as e babiestator don

125.

12271 dartra the after-

and later on the afternoon on harust e, 1951, irs.

Fuck advised that ben deurater is sorrod cast actorroon.

on we dcuraters return,

iDso

aT astormiaed fron her that

12=.

paRal pad recelreà a telenar ero bor busband, but the

It le aote2 that this

sierran nos later detercined to be a telena for subject Les

Concidential Incezarat Ill, 0f Morn re-

stated then there is no voy of trachar e telegran

log. RAChEL Jacka, Rain Crice of d. 1.

Sterart, Inco, 1035 Cherbers Nost,

rarised that ter records

that the rental carterent for the abore sierment kes

=:--0a Gula 2, 195l, ba Ticros

FERRE

This apartient iss

rentes

on a ronth to monta

asis at ino co per conta.

5222200

advised that sie has never soon the subject PERRi In-

Eacon 13

irs.

caIRIE J. Stare dealt ich tr. PERRI in

sentiar tie apartment.

VOSo STiN?? Was RidT on vecation ard

contact coula not be rado ilth her.

1so isinii stated that

in all procability inor stridic res seen tac

subicot inasrach

crazunatly notes laspection trigo in tals arca ln vien

an the pesoãt construction thore.

87-15374-33 -

2.00

L

174 54462

DocId: 32327486

Page 4

---

## Page 5

7

0.14

CINCINNATI #87-1753

Confidential Informant f-2, of know res

Labillty, agreed to advise dally Inforation concerain:

na11 recelved by Hrs. PERRY.

the rental agreement, Abood os the auraegs

reflected his address as 608A Main Street, Dallas, Texas,

ead that his present landlord as restains at Lilo lost pueblo

Reno, Nevada.

His bank reference is given asthe Onto mer

Netional Bank; trade reference as the Plttsburgh steel Con:

pany, no olty listed, and employment as self-employed, ul th

a Ilsted earnings of $10,000.00 per jear. mbia rental agrees

ment also reflects that the subject moved Into these apart

nonts on July 3, 1951; and that grage #26 ls assigned.

The following Investigation was conducted by

the writer:

MACK STEWART,

Mack Stewart, Inc., 1036

Chambers Road,

advised that he has seen VICTON PERRY at the

spartment which he rented, but that It has been several days

since he has seen him.

He advised that he has seen both a

1950 and a 1951 Cadillac parked in front of this apartment.

Mr STEWART also stated that he has seen the 1951 Cadillao,

which 1s in the possession of Mrs. BONNIE: PERRY, parked 1t

the vicinity of the 2100 block on Harwitch end the 2100 block

on Ridgeview.

HI. WILLIAiT CARVER, 1980 Harwitch, Acitey

Real Estate Rental Office, made avallable a list of reaidents

this vicinity,

1t was later deteredned that none

joot's ex-rifé.

teletype dated Augnat 7, 1951, the Oklahona

City Office advised that a check with tho Tax Coumissionerts

State of Oklahome, reflected that

the above-referred

to Cadillac is registered

in the name. of VICTOR PERRY with an

address of Skirvin Hotel. The Skirvin Hotel registry refleots

VIOTOR PERRY and wife, Route

1, DeSoto, Mississippl, registered

1951, only.

The room clerk. for this hotel does not

recall PERRY and cannot describe bin.

CIN-132, whose Identity is known to the Bureau,

arvised that there are no telephones installed in the building

-87-15374-88 CH

N4 54162 D0010332327186

*Page

---

## Page 6

cna26k?: 487-1753

at

Court, 10907971

applicetica das

Been +=-

=or

tolerasse

10A-.0

===

it ài11

probabl

re Senterber l, so siter bejere a telescone

can le Installed

there.

& spot sarollianes nea maintatred or tae

residence at 1739 tin-s

?.

5413

c.

54373

and

the inter, and lt tas noted that Escrie

73271

enccacied at

about 2:50

2952, 10 ea

mant

2036

Aldaerien

Tence 10e7

are

1=-95

casap?es

the spartassis

Tig.

202=03

who liter dotemired

no is a

Dersonal. friend of

ECURE FERRRRE BELET,

12eCE-

termined. that irs.

T..:

astonsed zina bondoà 1a Feros

Jerada, bith SOUGIE FaEEs

Sister.

Mesa 1210a, Rentel Ageat loo the Fies Coaat

airised ca tals date sat sae had no furiaer

rosition concernita tie subjecte

Compissatial

11a511197,

advised

1025÷63

ät the

5ich-2our

E255

advised

tras

2=52c

1a

tre

PICICE

Eranck. oi

ie calo cottonal Banto

Indet? dopesit ace escoes

Fots tasse scsounts

vera opened on

J2:15 10, 1951.

conficential Intersect cose of insia 59-

lieb111tse

anvisod thas e choctin- aceount tas. cooned es

July

10,

1951,

EN PLERE CItE &

15500000 cash deposit.

el:0 Ecilsed

that unea openina tale accorat

the susiect

presented

ollchora drivors: lsense as Identification.

no: 1in0 nirload toet on du25 17,

29520

choc: -ade Dejable

to RUE SE

the mount or J11c.00

w95

july 19, 1951, for clearance

T-ia

MORRIS

the

Texas

alto stated

STUDIA

for

Find and rist

Compart,, Dalles,

chockdetes duir 17,. 1951, esjable 15

500.00,

endorsed

cleared first bo

the altimore' Berdi, Farsas

1ssourl, Julz 25.

195.9

Lad cloned. or the chio

tatianal

Denk

83

collection.

16. 00 July 2i, 1951.

=-u

promined

to

savino

of am further sctivity concerning this

checiene

account.

- 5 -

87-15374-885

J

54462

DooId: 32327486 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Г

5686

RV.2

7

CDNOIOATI 607-1753

ca Aurust 3,

confidential Interant 2-4

Bald Peak

to the.

been receives.

Jala crest nee cleared

had

throut the dolfooro

rational Bend,

coldoors, dea bangaire, on the sccount ci

pinchurst, Inc.

orfIce was adrised of

Ey teletype dated Aurued E, 1951, the Boston

the above incorastior.

the colunous Resident Arena

Oh Aurust 8, 1951, SONIE CRATOR appeared at

EERIDE GO SACES and

and was laterrierso by SA

the writer.

She, 2t tre

time of coring

to the columbus jesident brenor, stated that sae had just

talked to her Hother too tole

her that the FBI was looking

for 7I0708 and thet the Fol das folloing her all

Shs stated test her

the tire.

mother donarded that sie coe done late-

Late To It ta noted let she des alone fasterical an tea

conta: to

Salians Headdent dronet ind was vert

noset to learn shei there was a warrant outstanding for viczo?.

nad received a

sno stated trat in the latter cont of June she

telephone call aron subject

he resuested

FERDIRA in reston

her te

Foot tir

in Orlabone Citry

statin- that

ciented to

Calehone,

had beor discussin. runerriere

She sirisod that ther

for cuite sone

tire and that

ghe e-need to

Rect the

a later telenhone call

masject ta Cilanoe Citr; Bonever, in

subject,

he recuested thet

she nast ain

In dansas

Bno earined that ghe

all seet the curdest in canoes City, tocourt, tile the er-

press ideù and pagore ta cutarratar 2la.

her 25

norever, to told

ent process of having ais

neme chaned le alla to 2anni coi that

.::,

• coulà bo more centrally located

In his hotol suali businose inlch he and Liz vere condustia.

She stated that e

Onlo, where they,

¿en duss later they proceoded to columbus,

that sho

*ten two or three dare, found the apartrent

Is residlar ln at 1709 rins Court, Anertmont r.

She advigod diat sio und the subloct then proceeded to bur

furniture for tale anortment, the most of nhich tho subject

boucht hinsolf and pald for in cash.

SONITE advised that at the timo the safoty de-

posit box was opened, she asw VICTOR put In-a stack of monoy,

wIth a one hundred dollar bill on top and which appeared to be

•0

-87-15374-33

L

74 54462

DooId: 32327486

Page 7

---

## Page 8

5686

KV -2

CMORKX7I 807-1753

one

and

a hole incaos talci, into this

safety deposit

35*.

Sine

6130

advised

27et

minced

the

title

and

insurance

capers to the 1951 caallino in bala safety deposit 5ox.

Boats sirised that the caly thin?

She Res

telen frog tle deposit bor was the car title and insuosiee

pepers.

She ssated

that these were taxen from the seleca

deposit bor onig

after she cad talkod to her nother,

and

that sce planned to latediately proceed to Reno,

seracs,

the givice of dor mothes.

Sao cbcted

trat sater

sas

cares

to her nother,

she toled to culi 770203 at the sacrosses

listes 1a

the

sue had in per agent.one.

Sie

adrised that upon

not being able

to reach T7OR03,

2-96r5

teleshoned i.c:

923227,

VIoToR's attorney at Dellas Perce,

st which time

asies il" li ho had hoard fros

Sce

at that time

told

sarand that V.o1ur has in trouske

and tras

she had talked to

her notor on that

nate

by telecaone,

vinich tine ner mother told ter to

process home

She

also tola sa2z5o thet hor notaor nad advised ben taar tre

FRi nas conducting a trenti-four nour survelllance on ter.

It should be

noted at tals

point that no trenty-four bow

Eur-

veillance has been concucted

on tirs. PERRy, and that colo

spot

checks had been nado at the residence.

She stated that at the tire they mored to

columbies they tiere accarpanted by subject L23 and a giri anon

to her

only by the nece

of HARGE, tho

was pregnant ty it,

end

thst use had sent her to her home, place unimon, evidea:zi to

set rid of her.

BOutIE made aveilable to SA SAkS and the triter.

correspondence which she had resolved for sunject Lub and for

subject

PEREIA, alto corrennondence and telerrera chler ano

had receired fron moject POlDIP:.

In this corressondence trere

Was

a lotter from Allen and Street, Attorneys,

121109,09708,

postered daly 200

1951,

50id Wets. Soroct,

latter to

He crore Giorees Iron

1020

Purdue,

(roman's bandariting), Houston

f'exes,

on statlocery of

the Gulf Oil Comona:, Port Orfice Bor 2110,

Houston 1,

another lotter forwariod in an envelope of Allen und sircet,

Attorneys,

postnaried Au ust 1,

1951,

tO JIES E. LEG,

5029

Mein Strect,

Dallas,

rexas, which appearca to be a b1ll on a

credit card :lth tas sulf o1l Company.

=7=

87-15374-3311

101

L

74 54462

DooId: 32327486

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Г

1. 5686 BV.21

CECIATI +07-1753

Tele-ren desed burist 5, 2051,

1709 Mines Court,

nail me on Sterlios

astrosses

Delegran dated July 21, 1951, to ursd Sonin

PEARE fron benchester,

Veront,

stating

Jent canade

arrived sero on

na to said Peak Colony

Clue, elmen tallage,

ten Harpshire.

First opportunity will 2lz in can

tie days.

July 15, 1951,

perman area al

ono1r Richelleu,

Sanada, advistan darede mus leavine

there.

BOUTS advised that just erior to tess leating

Columbas, chlo,

they had ins

cuite

an entreat because

NIC

Kept

putular off thoir penasriare.

She

stated that chez had

not been

remarrica and tant in mei of the trouble and inas-

preferred to be

here.

She will horelnarter de referred to as 301EE CRANOR.

on Aurust 10, 1952, BORIS SPAROP acE re-contacted

and recuested to fianish a raiver

of soarea for the rieir de-

posit. cor

In tho name of TIDIon or 3028 C. FERRE.

50XUI3

CRATeR furnisned

eno uriter a consent to searca facety dedualt

00x 3470 IT

the Finh-Tom trenco of tre Saio biationei Bank,

colnius, onle nos mas suareed.

and acconcented agent to this bari:

were the

safety

derosit

At the sine of te

seerch,

talo safety deposit box was engig.

BomB arsin stated that

the only

thing,

she had perored iron the cutota desarlt box

was the

tItle to Instant 1551 Cadillac und insurance papers

contained

In tho sane envelope.

BONID CRANOR advIsed tret she mas not listed on

the cheat:!n: account of NICOR PeRRY et this sank,

abrever,

checkin-

account had been established for her by

the subject at

the arlinaton arancia of the Ohlo National Zanx wii: a 52000.00

deposit.

sho stated

that at this timo this account Is down

approrimately $50.00

On Aurust 11, 1951, BONIZ CRAZOR WaS açaIn COn-

tacted, at which time she mado availanie a

lester, chich she had

opened, addrossed to subject LiE,

this lotter beira fron BlinchE.

- 8

88-15374-331

:0

2001

IN:

L

NH 54462

DooId: 32327486

Page 9

---

## Page 10

7

CICINADI 307-1753

S20A23

Tork.

L23,

105

th Street,

19, der

this

Isaias

9240063

tor':

Eppeared. very sister end

SENCESSIC

towards aubdect Lid and

"haradd" his hot to con-

tact eltaer to or bor parents arsir,

scaring

"one scosie be

alloned to forne: anion being divorced cigat jears."

03 me:erenoes coletzoo dated Micus: 20,

1751,

E BI PeSO OffICE atnted that the United Soates Attorners

Office,

21 Paso,

15a of the sainton there tas no lesal

the

besis

present time for selalar and holding the fare

nincre

In the moscasalon of BONES C3A3CR and 2250

4as 2a55-

=soile in der

they recuested taet a5

attempt be nade

a voluntars release si instaro sutomobile and the imalture 1a

hez possession.

ED:TE CRAVOR das contadted on datast 11, 1951,

askod to relense

instant Cadillac and

nonsendia furnaciao

Goderer,

she adriaod at tato time tast

she did not anon

to dorad

state?

that ghe desired to

contact an satorrer.

Sacy

at the

tine.cs

contact, stated tzat

she di: not moù scene subject PLisins occained

buy the Curatore later

possession,

end

the noney to

that sao did not

feol sue red ent

to

release instent Castllas cue

to ber not beine married to the

susject.

ine 14ats2 at this

time It too attornea

ano contacte advises der to releese the

furnitire end autorcallo, tret noturally ane will do so.

-0=2 CARIO? Kas De-contacted on famist 13,

1951,

st which tire toe states she hoa

an expointient ilth

A.

an attorney, at 22 Last dey Streot, et

3:00 p.=., on

i toictope was received from the 81 Pass Division

In chica

thoy

stairs Assistant United states Attorner hoLvE!

WILLING,

Paso,

Texas, requestod that Inatant Cadillac se

impounded us evidence, kith or mithout the pemission of scilE

PRANOR.

This

oi.ese decod li nivisable to wait until after

contact hind been made by Ronis CRAvoR with her atsomer before

takine ani definite action concernin? tro seliuro or Instant

automot1lo.

This

as doonod advisablo inasmuca

had been vory

cooperative,

and it wes folt that ary such action

at thet timo woula tond to arcravato the situation.

1-

87-15374-83

210

L

NH 54462

DooId:32327486 Page 10

---

## Page 11

0 C

Г

7

5606 NV.21

925020:21 657-1753

o. the

eiternoon

C3.103

at chich

tIre

13,

1951,

E2TI3

states

tast bor

attornet,

A. GIRL:

22 East 207

Street,

coltrauss

calos

Rad earised

202

Pretent

11= to

s=3

==÷,

sut states

taat is

al= noo sirise its

to

netcase

tre

Twate

inter soceedetoa.

303374

AAAi08

exclaines to

the

2050211a+

trent that

In als possession

a penn

jerket Street,

Sa=

Francisco, Calicorale, 20s

inion saa bas

peimed about February

1951.

Sae ac-

7I5€à

that et tre

tire

sae not

sue ject Flista in Renses.

no nad ssiod her

"sere her

rings dore, and thet she ex-

=Isines to his

that she and pained there

He at tras tre

took the sam ticket 1or

inose rinns and steted thet ac could

recover then.

30mI5 canioR recuested tet this office re-

guest a certified

000g 03

tao orinthal of this bein ticket be

returned to pen

30

trat

ine could resorer her riars.

In FieN

the facts. that

BATTE

DRAGOR appeared to be cooperative

1n 1nstant infost ation sa voluntarily released

tre 1951

CadIllac

intolted

in

this

the :

¡ori Cafica vas re-

QuestRE to conp tits Ele abore request do lestar dated carise

Py teletype dated Auguet 21, 1951,

the ten Fork

orfice advised that sublect P32372%

sabject lab, mose true

nee 15 20:2.3

were capretended on that date 17

der Ford City.

Os larass 11,

1951, E03523

CRANOR releases to

Sa socio. mAd and the miter Instant 1951 Cedilled flre pessen-

fer couge,

rotor number 515210295, bearia: Oklanona license

1-92823,

and roleased Crinhona title .291d54o to lastant dyio-

zobile Issued

was listed

as stirrin dots?,

calanora

21,

1051, nose address

Sett, Oklahonia.

ECTI TE

CRAVOR also releasod to icents excise

ter recelot for lastant

1951 6ad11133

the nare of

VICTOR PaRTY end Insurance policy

439912 In

Exchance,

tho name of iidr0R Poz2z alta the Casualty Reclprocol

this police

being obtained frog irater end company,

Insurance Brokers,

ritten cor

compromale, collision Er upart and 3,

HiS 9011e5 Bod

30,000 11r611157

insurance.

BODITE CHINOR executod a release

for instrat

autonos!le.

suto.ob1le,

and the las Iron a recelot for

this

The above-referred to popors are boing retained

- 10 .

87-15866-46

L

74 54462

DocId: 32327486

Page 11

---

## Page 12

7

5686. 0V.3

CDiSI

:T1. 407-1753

the

CHes

Pass

those

529÷93.

51273 121

0h1o.

Kanares ce

105119÷25

2a19

Estancelia

rete

was casted

рет коса,

====

C2s103

22930911205

until

instent

inca

tixe

₴3

enchants

tones Front

Strain,

Coliniara,

storage ins disciesco ritalia

Trumaneu,

sad to radested

552 10213

sil storere cacoses

2u9.

1.25

prestions

therest.

The starte

tie

CRIOR ans asabected regioding

in hoo posasssion.

-=x21=2

one rurgagas

that

o?

=ast 5:

Furniste

3001E

the fundrase

ax9re2,

2xs 542755

uniture des earchased and gaie soo in

Faritart Concern

wagonald's

Conger

she stated that

gre

Emersse

Dieses on the duraits st

fed,

rebonalers

curnirse

the naras

Siere

152 02

20w 0taco mall Grandere

mie.

ace

¿a not renaiter.

see carisod that

purchares

chair,

no spend more than deododd see crutcare

coarnt bus bed rode mars, doe bed zoon

5a3

posacese.

end tro

Lerios.

et raler dire

pIc,

=*

nitre don

Cr:

tha

2753

- 2751

1951,

DORIZE 12X.05 i53 Contssted,

-Droolare Storare

3o2d,

Jenner se Colembus,

More ment

X:...

To packing the fur-

2 Davisod that she w35 321p-

sine inate.*

*e

on tre aurios er der etternor,

and

trat tale curniture tos to de tallroros so Leizence Harehouges,

Sacresiato,

Calicornto.

leste

slurause

She parised

santosie plannes to

ca tast date for 2eao,

lorada, there

sno can be meached

as the bone of der parents, 170 deat

Puchlo, Reno,

Foila CaroR later on this date telephoned te

wrIter to adrigo tina tine not bosa manolo to

ostern reseryg-

tions, coverer,

11nes

43 Aurut 15, 1951.

by

All stops which havo been places In this ease

the cincinnati office have nos been rerovod.

187-15374-33

wi. et

L

74 54462

DooId: 32327486

Page 12

---

## Page 13

AS LOSE

sept the nonal St subjecti

ALT PASE TEXAS

•GO ANIM GOTOTAT LYME OUTO 904 051403 1114

trito do mode of lnstant 1951 Cactllee.

uni mort the prosecutive action en this set..

THE CINCINACI DRAS LOX

18 COLUMBUS, CHIE

dattver title papara and releare 1951

on propos nathan eston of the court or no pries

ey? s oreton, SL Paso Coxea-

unto, Mao Goalmed

1. 38P9K?

Who desi

30D2 d07.3.

Catan

Z0 Mattoven Bank, Colubus!

Tora Scanda de 0.

ept Lo confidence.

62-1a8t

14 54462

Doc1d: 32927486

Paue

13

---

