# docid-32338219

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90141-10015

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-92413-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

11/18/1960

PAGES:

1

• SUBJECTS :

QUINTIN PINO MACHADO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/06/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

HW 45847

DocId: 32338219

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

Sp. 8 mAC/

KSR

-14-94

Classified by

Declassily

DAGC (TH)

10/30/85

ISK

CINA HAS NO OBJECTION 1

TO

DESGLASSIFICATION AND/

RELEASE OF CIA INFOR

ENIM

Q.

HW

45847

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104

UNITED STATES GO-ERNMENT

y Memoranuum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

11/18/60

14

MEROM :

SUBJECT:

SAC, WFO (105-38673)

@

UNITIN PINO MACHADO

ME CUBA

PLASSIFIEROO: WFO)

HOWA

121.

3-6-97

BLASSIFIED BY-5lel 8 SLD/KSR

DECLASSIFY ON

WHET

WISE

ReWFOlet and letterhead memorandum 11/2/60.

Enclosed are nine copies for the Bureau with one

copy each for Miami and New York of a letterhead memorandum

dated and captioned as above with accompanying memorandum

The informants are identified as follows:

WF T-l is

who furnished the information on 11/15/60 to SAs GERARD

CARROLL and HERBERT J. MORGAN, Jr.

C.

The information on

10/20/60 was furnished to SA MORGAN.

MI MA MAN SA

PRSE IS GLASSI

CAESS MEX

OTHERNISE

The enclosed letterhead memorandum is classified

"Secret"

Since the information "furnished by CIA was

SO

classified.XIn the event of downgrading, it should be

classified Confidential"(since it reveals investigative

interest in a foreign diplomatic official and the information

furnished by WF T-l could tend to identify the informant

of continuing value and compromise future effectiveness

thereof.

It should be further classified "Confidential" since

the information furnished by the State Department was so

classified.

The evaluation memorandum is classified "Confidential"

since it reveals investigative interest in a foreign diplomatic

official.

2

Bureau (Encls. 9)

1 - Miami (Encl.

1)

(Info) (RM)

- New York (Encl. 1) (Info) (RM)

2 - WFO

(1 - 134

HJM: pjt

(6)

105 = 93413. -3

* NOV. 21 1968

ENCLOSURE

73491

3DEC1 1960

107

Copy to: CIA/State/RAB

ON1/081 /G-2

into.

by routing slip

fot

Dato/l-30-60 by.

NATT

DECLASSIFIED BY?

ON.V.

TEK'

DocId: 32338219

Page

2

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

---

