# docid-32326194

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90044-10043

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 63-7145-19

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: LA

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/19/1962

4

FRANK MATULA

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32326194

Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kenedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

2/19/62

AISTOL

TO:

SAC, LOS ANGELES (62-5130)

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (63-7145)

• JAMES RIDOLL

'HOFFA

FRANK J. "MATULA, Jh.

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

(00:1A)

A review

boan made of the investigation conducted

to date in this matter and the following observations are set

forth for the Los Angoles Office in order that all information

furnished by lA 4350-C can be fully and completely resolved.

It is noted LA 4350-C claimed to have not Matula at

Lennie's

Restaurant on the afternoon of 9/8/61, at which time

Matula was supposed to have just returned from San Francisco

with a large sum of money for delivory to holfa. Matula was

accompanied by an unknown female at this time.

Los Angeles should

interview appropriate officials and employees at this restaurant

in an effort to further develop details concerning this neoting

and identify Natula's female companion.

afforts should also be made to identify other associates

and contacts that Matula may meet at this location. Los Angeles

should set forth loads for the San Francisco Oxfice to contact

COMM-FBI

FEB 1

9 1962.

MAILED 4

T'olson

Belmont

Mohr +

Callahan.

Conrad

DeLoach.

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

no reason exists for making these interviews inadvisable.

The source also related that

Matula is very close to

and

has been in numerous real estate deals with Colonel John 0.

Gottlieb.

He mentioned that Matula and Gottlleb were Interested

in the development of some real estate located on Wilshire

Boulevard and that they had purchased some real estate fron

Globe Laundry.

The source suspected that Matula is also involved

with Ben Weingart and Gottlieb in some business dealings.

REC-72

son. 17344,1

NOTE

SEE PAGE FOUR

WAF: eem

(4)

= FEB 8.4

302/

DocId: 32326194 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colledtion Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

...o

AIRTEL TO SAC, LA

RS:

SAMES RIDDLE HOFFA, FRANK J. MATURA, JR.

63-7145

In this regard the Los Angeles Office is presently

conducting an investigation captioned "JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;

ROUS SERVICE COMPANY; COLONEL JOHN O. GOTTLIEB; MISCELLANEOUS -

INFORMATION CONCERNING (ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)" LA: 00,

LA file 62-5136 and in an interview with Gottlleb he stated

his acquaintanceship with Matula is purely social.

Los Angeles

should conduct appropriate investigation in an effort to resolve

those points including an interview with Weingart. The results

o1 Gottlieb's interview and review of records of Gottlieb and

Home Service Company as relates to these points should be included

in the next report submitted on latula

Los Angeles should check toll call records on phones

to which Matula has access in an effort to further establish

his contacts with Hoffa and others.

Additional logical

informants

and established sources

of the Los

Angelos Office

should be contacted to further explore Matula's activities and

associations with Hoffa.

The Los Angeles Office hasnnot forwarded

to the Bureau in letterhead memorandum form information furnished

by LA 4381-PC relative to Matula.

promptly,

This should be submitted

appropriately concealing the source of this infornation

in order

that

it can be disseminated to the Criminal Division.

Investigation has indicated the following persons may

have considerable information concerning Matula's activities and

associates and these persons should be interviewed in detail

providing los

Angeles files contain nothing making these interviews

inadvisable:

1: Dave Pick, Beverly Hills attorney who

allegedly was involved with Matula several years ago in some

"shakedowns."

2:

Foseph Sternbach, CPA, who has been Matula's

accountant.

3:

John B. Stevenson,

former Teansters

attorney, who

is reported to be holding money for Matula.

- 2

DocId: 32326194 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colention Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

AIRTEL TO SAC, LA

RE: JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA, FRANK J. MATULA, JR.

63-7145

NOTE:

Matula is an International Trustee of the Teamsters

Union. LA-4350-C has advised ouf LA office that when

Matula served time in the County Jail and County honor

farm several years ago in connection with a perjury

conviction he became very depressed and actually cried.

As a result of this Matula reportedly would do anywing

to prevent

himself from being incarcerated again. This

source stated that because of Matula's experience, he is

very cautious in getting directly involved in situations

that could cause him trouble with law enforcement.

Matula is presently on parole in connection with this

perjury conviction.

Matula has been

contacted recently by our lA office

in an effort to obtain access to Local 396 records in

connection with case captioned

| "Mike Harabedian; Frank J.

Matula, Jr. etal LMRA-IM Bufile 122-3019.

Matula at time

of this contact advised he would

first have to contact the

Union attorney to obtain permission. The Union attorney

later advised our LA office that the General Coungel of

the Union desired a subpoena be issued for the books and

records.

It is felt the above facts indicate an interview

with Matula as outlined in this airtel might be

benefitial and should be conducted.

DocId: 32326194

Page 4

---

