# docid-32125766

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

"Identification Form

SILVILUI

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10027-10103

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-2050

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MD

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/09/1963

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

LHO, POST-RP, ASSOCIATES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/30/1993

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

DOdId: 32125766

Page

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotela

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-3 (Rev 4-17-03)

DECODSER COPY

AIRGRAM

X CABLEGRAM

RADIO

DE-LASSIFIED BY 9803 ROD/KSE

ON

8:12-92

URGENT

SEK SPECIAl

Dadassity Get U4CR

12-9-63

DIRECTOR

/FROM LEGAT MADRID

NO. .412

I TELETYPE

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

sullivarle

Tavel. -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

617213

East eNv 2090

iS Calegory._

Ale ition indefinate

102550

100-434807

REBUCAB DECEMBER 6 LAST.

105-102-550 (Perugera

434807 (lassmanen!

COLONEL LUIS MARTOS LALLANE, HEAD OF INFORMATION

SERVICE, SPANISH HIGH GENERAL STAFF, ADVISES NO INFORMATION

RECEIVED IMPLICATING CASTRO REGIME IN ASSASSINATION OR

THAT OSWALD ACTING AS CUBAN AGENT. SAID ANY SUCH REPORT

WOULD HAVE COME TO HIS ATTENTION AND WOULD HAVE BEEN

IMMEDIATELY FURNISHED THIS OFFICE. (S)(U)

LIEUTENANT COLONEL EDUARDO BLANCO RODRIGUEZ, HEAD OF

INFORMATION SECTION, DIRECTORATE" GENERAL OF SECURITY, :

ADVISED SIMILARLY. ...

SAID JOSE MANUEL GARCIA PERUYERA

(BUFILE 105-102550) RECENTLY APPEARED HIS OFFICE TO MAKE

CLAIM THAT OSWALD WAS ACQUAINTED WITH HENRI GEORGE WAFGELE

SUBJECT OF BUFILE: 100-434807 GARCIA IN PAST CONSIDERED

POSSIBLE WITNESS AGAINST WAEGELL IN CONNECTION LATTER'S

OREMAINED

UNAUTHORIZED TRAVEL-CUBA.... BLANCO STATED GARCIA. CONSIDERED

ivIE

MENTALLY UNSTABLE AND UNRELIABLE AND NO SIGNIFICANCE PLACED

SHOWN

IN HIS STATEMENTS, BLANCO CONSIDERING DEPORTATION GARCIA

IN VIEW PREVIOUS ANTI-FRANCO ACTIVITIES. BLANCO SUGGESTED

GARCIA CONTACT LEGAT. GÄRCIA DID CONTACT LEGAT BRIEFLY

ALI INT

HEREIN

EXCEPT

OINZANISE

REG- 13

DC 7 10:11.93

(и)

55

62104060

Feegat

Kore

12/1576323

DEC 24 1963

tril.

122 DEC26

.1963 Classi

Tay SPLESKIRBG

74 DEC 30

SECIET

ligence contained in the above message is to

be disseminated out side the grea

U en: OADR

0110183

it is suggested that

'it be suitabl.

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

226.55%

DocId: 32125766

Page 2

UNRECOR

COPY

---

## Page 3

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotela

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-3 (Rev. 4-11-63)

• AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

SEXRETA

IX CABLEGRAM

RADIO

I TELETYPE

loison.

Belmont

Mohr —

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

De Loach

Evans -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy =

PAGE TWO

URGENT NO. 412 FROM LEGAT MADRID

FOLLOWING ASSASSINATION TO EXPRESS CONDOLENCES AND INQUIRE

WHETHER SERVICES AS WITNESS MIGHT STILL BE REQUIRED. ON BEING

TOLD THAT HIS SERVICES PROBABLY WOULD NOT BE REQUIRED HE

STATED WAS RETURNING TO FRANCE. GARCIA OBVIOUSLY HAS WANTED

TO TESTIFY AGAINST WAEGELL AS MEANS OF ENTERING WUNITED STATES.

APPEARS UNSTABLE. HE VOLUNTEERED NO INFORMATION TO LEGAT RE

ACQUAINTANCE OSWALD AND WAEGELL. REPRESENTATIVE REUTERS NEWS

→ AGENCY REPORTED TO EMBASSY THAT ARTICLE TO APPEAR DECEMBER 7.

ISSUE OF " TIEMPO ", SPANISH LANGUAGE MAGAZINE PUBLISHED NEW

YORK, THAT ENRIQUE PASCUAL RUEDOLO /GONVORA: POSSIBLY PASCUAL Cuba

ENRIQUE RUEDOLO (GONGORA) , CUBAN NATIONAL HAD BEEN DEPORTED

• FROM UNITED STATES ON NÖVEMBER 23 LAST, WAS ARRESTED BY

SPANISH AUTHORITIES AND HAD ADMITTED PLANS TO ASSASSINATE

PRESIDENT KENNEDY.: COLONEL BLANCO, ABOVE, ADVISED TODAY SU)

RUEDOLO DEPORTED NEW YORK FOR INVOLVEMENT UNKNOWN CRIMINAL

ACTIVITIES

SPANISH CONSUL IMPROPERLY GAVE HIM VISA TO ENTER

SPAIN. PLACED UNDER DETENTION ON ARRIVAL SPAIN NOVEMBER 29 (%)(4)

LAST PENDING ISSUANCE ENTRANCE PERMIT BY CUBAN CONSUL FOR

TRAVEL CUBA. CUBAN CONSUL, MADRID, AWAITING INSTRUCTION FROM

CUBA.

BLANCO STATED NO CONNECTION RUEDOLO MATTER WITH ASSASS-

I NATION

MAY HAVE GIVEN RISE TO RUMOR

ASEY CORSTANTINE BROWN

RUC.

RECEIVED:

9:22 A.M.

ML

SHELDON W. PARKS

CEXMR. ROSEN

BRD CC: MEL. BRENNAN

SEC

' the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic system.

DocId: 32125766

Page 3

---

