# docid-32286727

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10196-10003

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-951

Document Information

ORIGINATOR.:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

01/04/1963

SGI, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

03/20/1998

OPÈNING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286727

Page 1

126

---

## Page 2

Pleased under the John 1

DATE: 11-14-2017

Keniet?

sassinatiun Records torterttoi At

DEFERRED

1-4-63

FEDERAL BUREAU OF IN: ESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JAN 4

19630

2-B1

Mr. Toker:

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Casper

JKW

Mr. Cellahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Delaat

TO DIREETOR, FBI

Mr. Evahs w

192-3171/

Mr. Grip

Mr. Roen

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-3491

Mr. Sulvrn.

SAMUEL CIANCANA, AKA.,

Mr. Tavel

GIANCANA, AKAOS ARO DAILY SUMMAR •

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room .

CG SIX FIVE FOUR THREE DASH C DASH TE REPORTED THAT

SOLD OWNERSHIP OF WORLD WIDE DISTRIBUTORS, INCORPORATED, LAS OF JANUARY

ONE LAST TO NATE FIENSTEIN AND IRVING OVITZ WHO ARE ASSOCIATED WITH

ATLAS MUSIC COMPANY WHICH IS OWNED BY EDDIE GINSBURG. INFORMANT

REPORTED THAT GINSBURG WILL BE THE TRUE BOSS OF WORLD WIDE• HE

REPORTED THAT STERN IS NOW OPERATING AS A MERE SALESMAN FOR WORLD

WIDE• IT IS NOTED THAT STERN HAS BEEN REFERRED TO IN THE PAST AS A

FRONT MAN FOR GIANCANA AT WORLD WIDE DISTRIBUTORS AND PRESENTLY IS THE

SUBJECT OF AN ITAR CASE IN THE SHIPMENT OF ELECTRONIC TYPE GAMING

NE 0888

DEVICES COMMONLY USED FOR GAMBLING. IN THIS CASE THE DEPARTMENT

OF JUSTICE HAS AUTHORIZED PRESENTATION OF TRIS MATTER TO THE FEDERAL

GRAND, JURY WHICH IS, UNDER CONSIDERATION BY USArS ỚI

42-3174-

95/

CHICAGO! U

ALL INFORMIATION CONTAINED

DO JAN T ARIESAND DANGEROUS

HEREIN iS CLIXASSIFIED.

DoCId: 3457AND PHOLE PLS

DATE W 2384 BYSPSRTS BL

---

