# docid-32330636

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90091-10067

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

166-636-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DL

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 09/20/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32330636

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Nobel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 166-102

jurisdiction.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

On 7/27/63, DL 185-C-TE advised that MATTHEWS was

presently in possession of $30,000 which he

had obtained

for "planting somebody", meaning murder for money.

Informant

had no further details concerning the above, but stated he

would endeavor to ascertain furtber information concerning

same.

The above facts were discussed with Lt. JACK

REVILL, Criminal Intelligence Section, Dallas PD, who

made discreet inquiry through sources in an effort to

verify above information.

Lt. REVILL advised he was un-

successful in his efforts.

Information previously received from REVILL

from a highly confidential source indicated that a JACK

GUNTER and HUBERT DANE HARRIS, gamblers from Hot Springs,

Ark., were in Dallas, Tex., on 5/30/63, and attempted

to contact MATTHEWS at his residence.

It was learned that

they were unsuccessful in their contact and MATTHEWS

had indicated to his daughter that he did not want to

see

them at the time.

According to REVILL'S sources, GUNTER indicated

that it was most urgent they talk with MATTHeWS.

Re information set forth in report concerning

LEO J. LEWIS, former SL 1137-C statd LEO LEWIS had made

bets in the past on horses and is, no doubt, the type

of individual a handbook operator

would like to have

as a customer.

Re information concerning D. J. VENUS, III, Of

Biloxi, informants furnished the following information:

NO 1017-C, Gulfport, Miss., advised on 2/13/62

a phone call by WILLIAM

collects the "black market" tax on liquor, which tax amounts

to $4.20 per case.

Subsequently, VENUS reportedly met with

WINTER and, according to informant, VENUS was alleged to

have taken

a large sum of money, estimated at several thousand

dollars, with him to this meeting.

-B.

COVER PAGE

downer

DocId: 32330636 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

• DL 166-102

Det. GEORGE C, PAYNE, Gulfport, Miss., PD, advised

confidentially on 2/15/63, that Do J. VENUS, Ill, was one

of several persons present at a dice

game at the

Mardi Gras

mysterious explosion occurred in

death of IRA JOSEPH MIGUES, a known gambler.

advised the

Harrison County SO had done everything possible

to "hush up" this killing inasmuch as VENUS is a wholesale

liquor dealer and known close associate of Harrison County

Sheriff CURTIS O. DEDEAUX.

NO 1214-C, Gulfport, Miss., advised on 7/26/63,

that D. J: VENUS, III, is currently driving a 1962

Ford Thunderbird, black in color.

- C*-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32330636

Page 3

---

