# docid-32279864

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10110-10268

RECORD_SERIES: DI

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 44-1639-3915

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. DL

TO:

SAC. OC

TITLE:

Released under the John

f. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NIT 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

DATE: 01/15/1964

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: JR, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

11/07/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/23/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NH 54463 DocId: 32279864

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FBI DALLAS

PM C

PM CST @

FBI OKLACITY

FBI DALLAS

4-7 PM CST URGENT 1-15-64 VRG

TO OKLAHOMA CITY (44-430)

FROM DALLAS (44-1539) 2-PAGES

JACK L. RUBY, AKA, LEE HARVEY OSWALD, AKA (DECEASED)

DASH VITIMO CR. 00; DALLAS.

DL NINTY ONE DASH C HAS ADVISED THAT ROY KIMES, FBI NUMBER

TWO TWO EIGHT SIX THREE NINE, WELL KNOWN TEXAS AND OKLAHOMA

POLICE CARACTER, NOW DECEASED, TOOK JACK RUBY TO FARMERSVILLE,

TEXAS, APPROXIMATELY FOUR YEARS AGO, SIX OR SEVEN MONTHS

AFTER KIMES HAD BEEN RELEASED FROM TEXAS STATE PENITENTIARY•

AT FARMERSVILLE, KIMES AND RUBY CONTACTED JOE RUSSELL WYATT.

KIMES WAS REPORTEDLY TRYING TO BUY A MOTEL NORTH OF DURANI,

OKLAHOMA AND ATTEMPTING TO PROMOTE RUBY INTO FINANCING THE

PURCHASE. WYATT REPORTEDLY WAS LEFT AT COLBERT, OKLAHOMA,

AND WAS PICKED UP BY KIMES AND RUBY ON THEIR RETURN FROM TRAVEL

TO THE MOTEL IN QUESTION.

ATTEMPT TO IDENTIFY MOTEL REFERRED TO AND INTERVIEW

PERSONS WITH WHOM KIMES AND RUBY MAY, HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT

FOR FULL DETAILS. IT IS BELIEVED IDENTITY OF MOTEL MAY BE

KNOWN TO RESIDENT AGENTS, DURANT, OKLAHOMA

441639-3915

Serialize

END APGE ONE

ALL INFORUATION CONTAINED

Indes

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEL

Fille

1I69.95

Scarch

HH 54463 DocId: 32279864

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-36 (Rey: 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

ELETYPE

FBI.

Date:

1/15/64

• PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

URGENT

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

:

SAC, OKLAHOMA CITY (44-430)

FROM

:: SAC, DALLAS (44-1639)

JACK L. RUBY, ARA; LEE HARVEY OSWALD, AKA (DECEASED)

DASH VICTIM. OR. 00: DALLAS.

DI NINTY-ONE DASH C HAS ADVISED THAT ROY KIMES; FBI NUMBER

TWO TWO EIGHT SIX THREE NINE, WELL-KNOWN TEXAS AND OKLAHOMA

POLICE CHARACTER, NOW DECEASED, TOOK JACK RUBY TO FARMERSVILLE,

TEXAS, APPROXIMATELY FOUR YEARS AGO, SIX OR SEVEN MONTHS

AFTER KIMES HAD BEEN RELEASED FROM TEXAS STATE PENITENTIARY:

AT FARMERSVILLE, KIMES AND RUBY CONTACTED JOE RUSSELL WYATT

KIMES WAS REPORTEDLY TRYING TO BUY A MOTEL NORTH OF DURANT,

OKLAHOMA AND ATTEMPTING TO PROMOTE RUBY INTO FINANCING THE

PURCHASE: WYATT REPORTEDLY WAS LEFT AT COLBERT, OKLAHOMA,

AND WAS PICKED UP BY KIMES AND RUBY ON THEIR RETURN FRÓM TRAVEL

TO THE MOTEL IN QUESTION.

ATTEMPT TO IDENTIFY MOTEL REFERRED TO AND INTERVIEW

PERSONS WITH WHOM KIMES AND RUBY MAY HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT

FOR FULL DETAILS. IT IS BELIEVED IDENTITY OF MOTEL MAY BE

KNOWN TO RESIDENT AGENTS, DURANT, OKLAHOMA.

91(1)

MCC : gj

HORUIN IS UN02A59.

DATE

6443 Dr 9803 Radiate

Seridine

-1639-3915

Index De

file

Search

D

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

HH 54463 DocId: 32279864 Page 3

Sent

_ M

Per

---

