# docid-32334948

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017:

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90120-10053

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4196-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

03/07/1963

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

FPCC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32334948

25

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F Kennedy Assassination Récords Collection Act of 1992/ (14 USC 2107 Mote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO OSJECTION TO

SIPCATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

N THIS DOCUMENT. 5M 6/24/98

THE FOREIGN SERVICE

OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

American Embassy

Paris 8, France

CONFIDENTIAL

Dato:

To:

From:

"Subject:

March 7, 1963

Director, FBI

Fraince

Legat;

Paris/ (94-36) (P)

RELATIONS

IN

ALGERIA

RELATIONS

IN

TUNISIA

2-22-9000

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 300/5/R

DEGEASSIFY ON

10K 5668310 mo

208/98/5F1

5)

CLASSI

& EXT.

BX 3P2 4200/2 m

2952,3

ReBulet 2/19/63.

DATE OF REVIE 3-7-8

5D825,64%

7- 21-82-

ReBulet was received by the

Paris Office on

March

7, 1963 because of misrouting of the pouch by the

State Department to Saigon. (X)(u)

In accordance with the request in reBulet the

following information is furnished regarding matters

now pending in this office(which require work in AlgertaJS]

HEROES IS IT

EXCEPT WHE

OTHERWISE

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBA

319AV

RA - CUBA

Bufile 105-93072

ROBERT ALEXANDER WOOD

•IS - CUBA

Bufile, 100-353652

MARK DAVID SCHLEIFER

IS - CUBA

Bufile 105-101579

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

Bufile 97-4196

pertaining

MARK DAVID SCALEIFER,

page

twO

of Bulet to New York

dated

February 26, 1963,

Instructs paris

to expeditiously determine the activities

3

- Bureau: (1

(Llalson)

2 - Paris

(94-36) (91-23) 5h

REC- 25

66416300-

765

NWP: 1j:

3/26/13

(5)

Clas.

Declassif

on:

6 3 MAR 15 1963

ECORDED

8983

46 MAR 29 1963

CC

50 MA

7963

M0:00 196.

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32334948

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the

BATE 1114-2017 phor: kened Acessination Records Collection Not of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Motel.

CONFIDENTIAL

Paris 94-36

of subject in Algiers together with any information in-S

dicating suoject bas

returned to Cuba.

It also in-

structed that the Paris office furnish any data received CS

regarding the activities

of

IRVING ROSENTHAL in Algiers) Su

as well as Cuban travel.

• Instant leads

are being

Ded in abeyance. unti

the question of

overage in Algeria has been resolved 25.

by the Bureau. lA

The Bureau

requested that _we

describe any

contacts already available(in Algeria.) In view of the AS a

change in administration, change in personnel in the

embassy and the fact that all french agencies have CS-

departed from Algeriawe have no contacts there at the CS

present time.

We formerly had contacts in the U.S.

Consulate General n Algiers but the persons whom we had ESS

contacted previously have been transferred.

We also

previously had contacts with French police officials Ls.

and the officials of the Direction de la Surveillance LS

du Territoire (DST)

are no longer existent in AlerT earn des ST

Government has formed its own police organization and CS.

an opportunity to establish

contacts there.

The. Bureau

requested that we comment regarding

the desirability of referring inquiries &n the security SJ

field to local agencies there in view of the comparatively

establishment of the new government.

It is CS]

assumed that the Bureau Is referring to American local

agencies in Algeriad The American Military Intelligence CS]

agencies, such as,

the Army Intelligence Corps (AIC),

the Office of Special Investigations (OSI) and the

Ein Algeriad

Mhe only American local agencies in Algeria CS

Those offices are not branches of theiCIA office infu

(SCariDor thoRAmerican Embassy in ParisSout since the Us

establishment of the independent

Algerian Government eSS

the Consulate General(in Algeria has become a separated)

SUBNET

- 2.-

CONFIDENTIAL

SECHEI

DocId: 32334948 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USe 2107 Hote).

*DATE: 11-14-2017

JARAURNOO

CONFIDENTIAL

Paris

94-36

and they

IA

station there

answers directly to

I headquartors.

Therefore.

would not be logical

to

the:

STORET

to the Embassy

Embassy or dAen

•Paris

In AlgerIa throughla

De necessary to hanale inquirles En (SJ

security type cases through

therembassyandcInin Algeria since It Is doubtful that USu

vet organized a security service or Cs

would be rellable.

This could be explored and

It appears

that personal contacts there wauld be necessar

We could, of course, consider contacting the lgerian [SY

police in criminal matters.

possibilities of establishing contact with the Algerian ESu

police when 1t 1s in its formative stage. de (s

Any travel to Algeria)will be held in abeyance

pending further

Instructions from the Bureau..

.:3

SLORET

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32334948 Page 4

---

