# docid-32311784

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10320-10101

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-409763-20

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/03/1964

22

MARK LANE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

3;4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32311784

9

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 141437017--501

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIG

NEW YORK

MARK LANE

REFERENCES

920 31 5668 SLOCCL

ON 4/15/99.

TEK)

DATE

2/3/64

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

1/17 - 28/64

REPORT MADE BY

BENJAMIN P. MC MANUS

CHARACTER OF CASE

Photo

CC TO:..

15.1-1

SM -

CREQ. REC'D.

7..-8

JUL 1 0 1964

ANS.

BY:.

Dra.

TYPED BY

es

Report of SA BENJAMIN P. MC MANUS dated 4/17/63 at New York.

New York letter to Bureau 1/15/64.

Bureau letter to New York. 1/17/64.

227-950

SECTASE

-C-

Daclassiny on:

DAS FA

ADMINISTRATIVE

LEAD: Dallas Division • Information

One copy of this report is being furnished to

the Dallas Division, in view of their interest in this

matter and since MARK

LANE is the attorney for Mrs.

MARGUERITE C. OSWALD who lives in that division.

APPROVED

COPIES MADEL:"

Concerning the alleged sodomy charges against

LANE, mentioned herein,

the following

• additional information

was received on 1/20/64 by SAs RONALD E. YOUNG and

BENJAMIN P. MC MANUS from conversation with Mr. BERNARD M.

PATTON,

Assistant District Attorney,

Queens County District

Attorney's Office, and WALTER ANDERSON, Investigator,..

RELiAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

UWRECORDED COPY FILED

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

1:14:1163.20

REGR

4

Bureau (100-409763)

Dallas (Info) (RM)

- New York (100-117844)

(RM)

8 FEB 4 1964

Pres lemo

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

540 Rankin Strete CIA

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD..

DATE FWD._.

HOW FWD.

BY.

Fe Bolin

0-14t 0-14€

6 6 MAR 2

(at sage)

DocId: 32311784 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of' 1992 (44 USe 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• NY 100-117844

RET

queens county District Attorney's offly li

*Salden

The case against LANE was initiated in proximately:

December, 1961 on a complaint from Alexander's Department

Seore, QueenseN = Yo, concerning a bad check received from

a customer,

one PHYLLIS DENISE GOLDEN in the amount of

approximately $100. GOLDEN

was subsequently contacted

by Mr.

ANDERSON and promised to make the check good.

that time she stated"her boyfriend" would have to make the

check good since she had "enough on him" to keep her the

rest of her life.

When GOLDEN failed to pay the money to

Alexander's, ANDERSON told her that she could possibly be

prosecuted.

GOLDEN then stated she was mad at her boyfriend

for his failure to give her money

and wanted to furnish

the District Attorney's Office with all details concerning

this person she identified as the attorney, MARK LANE.

In this connection, GOLDEN stated

she had worked for LANE

as his secretary for six months with no pay.

She further

stated she had another woman who would give information con-

cerning LANE.

Clizabott

Itephensen

STEPHENSON appeared at the Queens County District Attorney's

Office and each furnished signed statements concerning

sadistic and masochistic acts performed by them on the

person of MARK LANE.

She further furnished an obscene

photograph of LANE?

which she

said had been taken by her

using a Polaroid Land camera.

(Details of these alleged

acts have been previously furnished the Bureau as attach-

ments to the report of SA JOHN E. WARREN, entitled "SARAH

SCHOENKOFF; PEACE CORPS - APPLICANT" (New York file 161-

1207).

MI. PATTON decided to present the entire matter

to the Queens County Grand Jury, but realized at the time

that the charges against LANE were vague

in that masochism

is not covered

a crime under present statutes. He

further stated that neither girl would admit that sodomy

took place during the acts referred to.

B

Cover Page

DocId:32311784 Page 3

---

## Page 4

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of' 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 100-117844

The Grand Jury failed to return a true bill and

the matter was

closed.

Mr. PATTON stated that he believes PHYLLIS GOLDEN

apparently related her

actions to MARK LANE, at which time

LANE came to the District Attorney's Office

and denied

all charges and also denied he was the person in the photo-

graph.

Mr. PATTON said that prior to the Grand Jury hearing,

pressure to drop the charges against LANE was brought by

LOUIS KARLAN who was then New York City Commissioner

in charge of Investigations.

(He has since been appointed

a New York City Judge). KAPLAN accused PATTON's office of

improper behavior in the matter, a charge which PATTON

ignored.

On 2/5/62, PHYLLIS GÖLDEN submitted an affidavit

recanting her previous statement and testimony before the

Grand Jury.

In this affidavit, GOLDEN stated she had

lied and the original information furnished by her to the

Queens County District Attorney's Office was false.

This

statement had been sworn to before STANLEY GELLER, Notary

Public, State of New York, and was witnessed by NORMAN

DORSEN, believed by Mr'. PATTON to be a member of the

faculty at the NYO Law

School.

Mr. PATTON stated

serious consideration was given

to charging GOLDEN with perjury in view of her testimony before

the Grand Jury, but it was decided the case was weak and no

further action

was taken.

The other person involved, ELIZABETH STEPHENSON,

following the submission of her statement, refused all further

cooperation on any basis with the District Attorney's

The above is placed in the administrative section

of this report since it contains a great deal of conjecture

and opinion on the part of PATTON and ANDERSON.

Cover Page

DocId: 32311784 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107/Hote) .

DATE:, 11-14-2017

NY 100-117844

For the information of the Bureau, STANLEY GELLER

was the subject of New. York 100-117337, Bufile 100-410074.

He was removed from the Security Index on 7/20/55 and from

the Reserve Index on 11/17/60.

GELLER was a CP member in

1947 and as of 1960 was an attorney-at-aw at 400 Madison

Ave., NIC.

For the information of the Bureau, on 12/20/63,

ANY 3225-S* furnished information that on that date ISIDORE

GIBBY NEEDLEMAN furnished to KONSTANTIN SEMENOV, a Soviet

official a copy of the brief prepared by MARK LANE and which

appeared in the 12/19/63 issue of the "National Guardian".

On 6/14/63, ANY 2816-Setadvised that on 6/10/63,

MARK LANE attended a street meeting sponsored by the

Metropolitan Council on Housing (MOH) and delivered a

short speech. The above has been placed in the administrative

section since no approved characterization of the MOH is

currently available.

On 12/5/63 ,ANY 2745-S* andaNY 694-S* furnished

information that on that date an informal discussion was

held at CP headquarters, NYC.

It was said that MARK LANE

had prepared a brief that will punch holes "in proof that

OSWALD was guilty".

GEORGE MORRIS, CP official, commented

that the prime thing to do was to prove he (OSWALD) was

not a Marxist. He stated that MARK LANE will not prove

him not guilty (of the assassination of President KENNEDY)?

"all he will do is report what others have done - punch holes

in the evidence".

INFORMANTS

томке сост

Identity of Source

NY T-1

NY 3868-S

File Number Where Located

Residence - Instant report

Used to characterize GABRIEL LEVENSON

134-7718A-54

-62

- 75

- 85

-108

-148

D

Cover Page

DocId: 32311784 Page 5

---

## Page 6

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107Vhote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 100-117844

INFORMANIS (cont'a)

Identity of Source

NY T-2

NY 3325-S

NY T-3

NY 3821-S

NY T-4

NY 2517-S

File Number Where Located

134-5906A-208

134-8043A-76

134-2602A-776

-787

-795

- 800

100-117844-406

- 430

134-729A-362

NY T-5

+ 6474-53 00(4)

NY T-6

CV 467-S

NY T-7

ROSE KISS

NY T-8

MY 2705-538(W)

CV 134-1099-SA-10

100-117844-455

E

Cover

• Rage

Jie.N,01

DocId: 32311784

Page 6

---

