# docid-32304169

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10285-10181

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/30/1973

7

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM, CARD, ENV

v9.1

Hw

45850 DocId:32304169 Page 1.

---

## Page 2

CIA(Z)

State

4/24/73

ACHIch

OPTIONAL FÖRM NO. 10

LAY 1692 El

SA FPMR ( SER). 101-114

UNITED STATES

VERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM

: SAC

(105-3803) ]KRUC)(S)

CONFIdENTIAL

DATE:

3/30/73

AI.T. INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERETN IS UNCIASSTFIED EXCEP

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

SUBJECT

BORIS

"PETROVICH" MIROUNO'

-ES. - R (GROUP)

11!.

CONFIDENTIAL MATERIAL ATIACHED

00:

WFO

Re WFO letter to Bureau captioned as above dated

2/8/73.4

M66 50

inclosed for the Bureau are six copies of an LH!

nd one travel card pertaining to the above captioned subject

Two copies of

àn LHM are being enclosed for WFo.

The confidential source mentioned in LM is

'a

knowledgeable source in a position to furnish such information

andwho is familiar with foreign visitors to the Dallas,

Texas,

area. The above knowledgeable

source was contacted by SA

JAMES W. ANDERTON On 3/5/736

In view of information set out in enclosed LHM,

Dallas is conducting no further investigation, uACB. U

16855

Classified

Exempt fron

Date of Decl

Category

3

CLASSIFIED BY: 5L0/6a

REASON: 1.5: (ca..

cicadler

AGEN

CES

3/6/18

DECLASSIFY ON: X 0C6)

TER" 1/5/97

DECE DIA'

12121/9

REC 27.

05-2-11-768)

DIA

DECLASSI

PRON ANOT

lassif til:

PER JU 13 IN THIS DOCUMENT

PE LEIS HOSE ENTERIEN

2

- Bureau. (Enc.7)

< 9-1148

- WO

111056022(5)

(RM)(S)

105-2879% Trave.

Tontrol SOONI DÈNTIAL

ile - USSR)!/

E ENCLOSURE DY

Jit Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

SECRET

0010108066364

45850

DocId: 32304169

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFITENTIAL

SECREL

NONSYMBOL SOURCE ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

The confidential goufce mentioned above is

Dallas Committee for Foreign

Visitors (DCFV), Dallas, Texas

OTHER 4

CONFIDENTIAL

= 2 -

!::

NW 45850 DocId:32304169 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONFIRENTIAL

-

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ANCIES

PRIATE

FICES

ROUTING

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dallas, Texas

March 30, 1973

CONFIKENTIAL

SECRET

iphild

cations

classi

118.

CONFIDENTIAL MATERIAL ATTACHED

BORIS PETROVICH MIROUNOV (G)

ATT, INFORMITION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Xon March 5, 1973, a

The above confidential source

Identified Mrounow os the Laboratory Chiet of Institute of

Thermophysics of Siberian Section of USSR Academy of

Sciences s) The above confidential source stated that the

specific reason for Mirounov's"

Visit to Dallas, Texas, was

to visit DI. Roy Simpson, Professor of Science at Southern

Texas, and that while in

Dallas, Texas, Mirounov

the Dallas Committee for Foreign Visitors, (DCFV)

6855

MooRE

DECLASSIFICATION

C2R 11852

iN

GEN

• BY.

ACATEGIC

CLASSIEED

EXEMPT PhOM

SCHEDULE OF

LATICALLY

EXEMPTIO

AUTO

The above confidential source stated that on

January 26,

1973, upon his arrival at Love Field, Mirounov was met by

William Odum, who is a successful architect and a city planner

or the city of Dallas, texas

The above confidential

ource stated that Mirounov was entertained o

January 26, 1973,

and furnished lodging by William Odum (supra)

*The above confidential source stated that on January 27,

i Me and Me at ined te a lunche typhich was hosted

¿Barbeque.

32

confidential source stated that or

January 28, 1973, Micounov was hosted at a luncheon sponsores

de

by Mr. and Mrs. Ilya Mamantov and the source noted that

Mamantov is Professor of the Russian Language at Southern

GD

CD

/ Methodist University (SMU), Dallas, Iexas.

Mirounov The above source stated that on January 29, 1973,

during the entire day, was with Dr. Roy Simpson,

Professor of Science, SMU, where they attended a conference

on the Institute of Ischnology: The above confidential source

stated that Mirounov

and Dr. Simpson during this day discussed

scientific matters of mutual interest

105

7844.

'ST

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions

of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and

auras contents

your agency a

68 Allere not to be distributed outside

DADA

SLOSURE

SECRET

[CONFENTIAL

725.8925

NW 45850 DocId: 32304169

Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENTiAL

BORIS PETROVICH MIROUNOV (5)

SECRET

The above confidential

source stated that MIROUNOVS)

departed Dallas, Texas, on January 30, 1973, by American

Airlines en route to Chicago,

Illinois, and

. that during his

onfined his activities only t

members of the

allas comittee for Foreign Visitors anc

matters of a scientific nature.

-hat durina his stay in Dallas,

Texas, Mirosour said not

engage in any suspicious or subversive activities.

CONFIENITAL SECRET

HW 45850

DocId: 32304169 Page 5

---

