# docid-32245030

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

9/21/201

AGENCY:

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10072-10088

RECORD SERIES :

NUMBERED FILES.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

008388

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note! .

Case#:NW 54046 Date:

08-24-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: TRS

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/10/1963

3

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES.

BLANCO, FERNANDEZ, JUAN FRANCISCO.

VALDIVID, ESCHEVARRITA, HOMERO SAMUEL;

BACKGROUND.

MIAMI, FL; POLITICAL AND SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES.

CHICAGO, ILL.

REPORT.

Not Marked

1A

Withhold

08/22/1993

Box 153.

I 31046 DocId: 32245030 Page 1

---

## Page 2

JFK Routing Slip

Document I.D.

INDEX

1s report

danco-Jerran

NO.

008388

DATE 5/16/28

INCOMING CORRESPONDENCE

COPY TO

Robert Blakey

Keely

Gary Cornwell

Kenneth Klein

Charlie Mathews

Jim Wolf

Jackie Hess

Cliff Fenton

Mike

Meke #wing

Team #2

Team #3

Team #4

Team#5

Special Instructions:

Form #2

HH 54046 DocId: 32245030

Page 2

---

## Page 3

1000 10 7343,(Ror5

DEINORINDON

15-1-50)

UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE

TREASURY DEPARTMENT

ORIGIN G: 03 0 12-3-03 352 OFFICE

TYPE CF CASE

STATUS

Frotecbire Research

INVESTIGATION MADE AT

Mani, Florida

INVESTIGATION MADE BY

SA Emest I. Aragon

DETAILS

liai. Florida

Closed Miami

PERIOD COVERED

12-10/13-63

FILE NO.

30-2. - 34.030

TITLE OR CAPTION

Lee Harvey Oswalà

Assassination of Fresident Kennedy

SYNOPSIS

aavise the file of Fozero Samuel Valdivia"

The Land gration & liaturalization Service, Carer, Fla.

is noi in their local office.

They stated their

Central Office, Washingion, D.C. could advise she

location of this file.

the Francisco Blanco on sus

ect case is someone other than the Francisco Blanc

mentioned in 00-2-30,155. The Exancisco Blanco oi

Interest in this investigation nas bem tentatively

identified as Juan Francisco Blanco-remandez. a member

student Revolusionary Diractorate at lizai, Fla.

(A)

INTRODUOTION:

Reference is made to menorandun reports dated Decender 3, 1953 by 54 Eavami

Z. Tucier, Chicago, requesting further investigation of this case in the liari area

concerning Fonero Sanuel Valaivia Echevarria ana Francisco Blanco.

(3)

CENEPAL INQUIRIES:

On 12-10-63 inquiry was made of 3-11-14, relative to Valdiria Eccevarria and he

is not of record.

On the same date, records of the INS, Miani, Fla. failed to iisclose has the

file of Valaivia-Echevarria was in this district.

SA Charles Chailendes, ISIS,

advised inat Valdivia-Ichevarria nay have been a transient through Fiani and his

file iould have been forvarded to the office viere he was to estajlisa residence.

Vir. Challendes stated that if this particular file was not in Chisajo that their

Central Ofrice in lashington D.C. would be able to adrise ine exast location of

this file.

DiSTRIBUTION

Chief

Dallas

tross

Grand Rapids

Birminghan

Springzield

Washington F.0.

COPIES

Orij.21c0

1cc

Icc

Icc

Icc

1cc

2cc

2cc

REPORT MADE BY

DATE

"SPECIALAGENT EmeEt I. iraon

APPROVED

12-13-53

DATE

SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE

John à.

(CONTINUE ON PLAIN PAPER)

626

arshal?

D. I COYEAMALMT FOSSTINE ONPICK

12-13-93

10-01308

HIH

---

## Page 4

50-2-34,930

2.

in 12-23-03 the reporting agent ulscreedy Interviered eranciss

Blanco nantioned in CO2-30, 15ú. He is currently resting au es.

1553 Su-e

Niazi, Fia. Prancisco Blanco is describei as i=jaruerto Pican

65; 315; 10; brom eyes; silvar fray hair; dan costiacion; erhritis

nas residea in stau sanse 1927. As ill be ouserveù, the Francisco

Blasco described above is sozeone other than the Francisco Blanco o

interest in this investigation.

On 12-12-03. through a confidential source inquiry ias race of The

Directorio Revolucionairo Estudientille(D.2.2.) (Student Revolutionary

Directorate) at liani, Fla., and it was deternined that this organisation

has a member 1noim as Juan Francisco Blanco-Fernandez.

Later on this same date the confidential source nade personal contact

with Juạn Francisço Blanco-fernandez and, through a discreet conversation

with hin, leamed that he had been in Chicago approxinately tro weers ago.

Femandez allegedly is the head of the military phase of the Student-

Revolutionary Directorate at liami, Fla.

On 12-73-53 the IúNS file of Juan Francisco BLanco-Fernandez under

their No.JA12495140 was reviewed and it discloses that Fernandez entered

au Miani, Fla. on 10-13-01 through Cuban Passport lo. 40754 valid unti

10-11-61. He is described as w/m, Cuban; 1503 5-ó-39 at Pinar del Rio,

Cuba; 5-9; 170; blue eyes; black straight hair parted on one side. de

the time of his entry, he was detained for violacion of the immigration

lars. He was subsequently given an indefinite parole. His FBI nuroer is

53403373. The file further discloses that Juan Francisco Blanco-emandez,

on the fir sevented other leaner of on 6225 articipatea

,In a rais

On 17-13-62 Fernandez enlisted into the U.S. Ary and he was assigned

to Uc. 50303110, Coc 3RD 3n, Irst Ini. Regte, Ft. Jacison, S.Car- The inciusive

dates of his active service in the U.S. Arry are not known, nor is the exact

date of his discharge. Since his discharge fron the U.S. Arm, he has been

residing in liani, Fla. except for his recent trip to Chicazo and he is

currently the head of the military.

section of the D.R.3.

Photograph of Fernandez was extracted iron the Is file and exhibited

to the confidential source and he identified hin as the suoject in question.

This photograph has been reproduced and copies are attached hereto for use

by the Chicago office.

(J):

CONCLUSION:

Copies of this report are being forvarded to the lashingion 1.0. in order

that inquiry nay be made at the Central Office of IllS in an effort to deternine

nether the IdiS file of Honero Samuel Valdivia Ichevarria, IS nuncer

0A12235450 is located there.

For the infomation of the bashingion .o.,

Benevarria is also known as Honer S. Echevarria and is deserial as ala, Siban;

32; Dom aù Jatibonico, Calaguay, Cuba; 5-9; 100; black hair; zustache; Olive

coplexion. Leis number A12230450.

626

1H 54046

---

## Page 5

60-2-34,030

3.

Photographs of Juan Francisco Blanco-Fernandez are altached for

Chicago and unless otherwise directed this investigation is closed in

riani.

ATTACHEINITS

Chicago: Photograph of Blanco-Fernandez.

Note;

Inasmuch as Blanco-Fernandez is the director of the military

branch of the D.R.E. in liani, his mission to Chicago nay have

been for the purpose of securing military equipment from Thonas

Moseley. If the Chicago office desires a direct interview with

Blanco-Fernandez, please advise.

626

MH: 54046

DocId: 32245030

Page 5

---

