# docid-32292803

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-10210-10079

92-3171-2481

=. Xerred:

aaaaairazier

Resteds

===beaster

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

FOARDE, JOHN J. JR.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

09/13/19.74

'PAGES:

25

SUBJECTS :

SGI, BKG, RES, ACT, TRA, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/08/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32292803

160

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MEX 92-13

ADMINISTRATIVE

Sources

First Confidential Source

Abroad (CSA)

Second ICSA

Third

CSA

Fourth

CSA

Fifth

CSA

Sexth

CSA

@ Seventh CSA

Los

MEX-134 2] (g4)

MEX-156 g/ (CU.)

ROBERT KRAUSE,

Las Mananitas

Mgr.

Restaurant

(By request) & la

JORGE VAZQUEZ ROBLES

Chief, Inspection

Service,

Mexican

Immigrationg u

GERALD W.

SCHULTZ,

Explanada 1305,

Mexico City

(By request)

AM CS

MEX-287/

FISUR

by Federal

Judicial

Agents

police and

Eighth

CSA

Ninthi

CS'A

Tenth

CSA

Eleventh osA

Twelfth CSA

/Thirteenth CSA

MEX=42 and MEX-196

(Surveillance team

MEX-170

(u

SA RICHARD S. CLARKI O

MARIO GUERRA,

Cuernavacapr

*By request) e

Mr's •

JOAN BANNISTER,

DEA,

U. S. Embassy

(By request)

-B-

(COVER PAGE),.

910-100731

NW 45792 DooId: 32292803 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MEX 92-13

Sources

Fourteenth source

JEK Act 6 (4)

W. C. DAVIS,

Rancho Teleta,

Cuernavaca

(By request) & 4

Fifteenth

Sixteenth

CSA

CSA

CSA

Eighteenth

Nineteenth

/ CSA

Twentieth

"CSA

Twenty-first

CSA

LEADS

Foxmer

CI

Former PCI

SA ELDON D. RUDDA (US

SA STEVE D. EVANS& (4)

JAIME GUTIERREZ QUIROZ

Chief, Inspection

Service, Mexican

Immigration

(uJ

JESUS MADRIGAL,

Inspector,

Mexican Immigration.

(4)

MEXICO CITY OFFICE

AT MEXICO

D. F., AND CUERNAVACA,

•MORELOS I dU

Through sources, continue efforts to develop

information concerning subject's activities while residing

an Mexico (Q) U

-C*-

(COVER-PAGE)

1C.

71 = 16990

NW 45792 DocId: 32292803 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SAMUDL GIANCANA

The fourth source advised on April 3, 1968,

that inspectors of Mexican Immigration had conducted

an investigation in Cuernavaca concerning subject.

One of

those interviewed, according to the source,

Octavio Cisneros, who maintained a residence at the

Club de Golf in Cuernavaca.

Cisneros said that his

only relationshiy with the subject, whom he knew as

Scaizetti, was

at the golf club.

He stated that the

subject had sold him; Cisneros, a golf cart at this

club some months earlier. & u

WAS

A TILth SOurCe NO

on February 20, 1972,

that a photograph of the subject is identical to a

person calling himself Sam De Palma, who purchased

luxurious house in Cuernavaca, Mexico, in about November

1969-

This source said that the house is known as the

Villà San Cristobal or Quinta San Cristobal and

is

Located in the las quinta area in Cuernavaca A l

Celso Carreto Benitez, was interviewed by FBI

Agents at Englewood, New Jersey, on

May 1, 1973, and

July 6, 1973.

Carreto said that he did not know anyone

by the

name of Samuel Giancana, but after viewing a

photograph of subject he identified the subject as Samuel

De Palma for whom Carreto had worked in Mexico for approxi-

mately three years until late August 1971.U

A sixth source advised on August 22, 1974, that

subject did not acknowledge his true identity to his golfing

and card-playing associates in Mexico City but was always

roferred to by them as Sam De Palma. A Xia

The source

said this continued over a period

of nearly five years even though most of these people

had

concluded that subject was Giancana after an article

with subject's photograph appeared in "Time" magazine on

page 17 on August 22, 1969. 4CP Al

RESIDENCES

A seventh source advised on December 19, 1966,

that the subject was observed at the Mexico City International

Airport at the time when entertainer Phyllis Mc Guire was

arriving on a flight from the U. S.

The source said that

Miss Mc Guire was also observed but

that there was

..no direct

contact between thei two at the airport.

The source advised

that it was impossible at that

time to determine the subject's

current address in Mexico.

2

SANTIAL

NW 45792 DocId: 32292803 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SAMUEL. GIANCANA

Calle de Nubes #2

the second

source advised

that on June 1e:

it was

cotermined

1967,

Ion servants that the owner of

house

at that address is referred to as salvador scaletti lem)

An eighth source advised on June

30, 196*7,

that

inquiry conducted in Cuernavaca,

Mexico, discloses

that

Rancho Tetela is a subdivision located at some distance

from the center of town.

The house at Nubes #2 is a small

palace resembling a fortress, more luxurious than some of

the best homes in Mexico. Nubes

street is or

the top of

bill and is reached by Via Lactea Streetdon

Continuing the source said that the house at #2

is a white house with three stories and many windows.

is

It

located on a huge lot of approximately 7,000 meters

and completely enclosed with a tall white wall with metal

gates.

The

garden has many floodlights on posts.

The

building is remote from any other habitation, although

there was a house under construction on one side and a

deep canyon on the other.

Innediately facing the house

is a small traffic circle with a garden

Source said that workers in the neighborhood

stated that the house at Nubes #2 was occupied by Americans

and that there was a black Mercedes at this house. Source

determined that a black Mercedes with Mexican license plates

Iron the Federal District, #50? SY, was parked inside the wall

at this address.10 inL

The fourth source

advised on July 26, 1967, that

agents from Mexican Immigration had made inquiry at Nubes #2

in Cuernavaca and were told by a servant that the American

occupying

the house was then in the U.S. The servant stated

that this individual rarely left

except to go to the golf cluble

the house while in Cuernaraca

A ninth source advised on October 24, 1967, that

an individual believed to be identical with subject

had been

seen at the house at Nubes $2 in

. Cuernavaca on that date flu

3

11ts

45792 DocId: 32292003 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SAMUEL GIANCANA

This individual was observed leaving the house in a black

Mercedes sedan with Mexican license 507 SY. He was seen

with and without sunglasses and was wearing a gray hat with

black band and smoking

a cigar.

The source was

quite certain

of the

identification

1) и

A tenth source

advised on septeuber 18, 1907, that

nvestigators for Mexican Immigration had again made

inquiry

Nubes #2 in Cuernavaca and that the housekeeper at that

address stated that the occupant, who was referred to as

"Sam," had departed by car for the U.S. during the carly

pait

of September 1967.

Interviews with servants indicated

that "Sam" had been in residence at that location from time

to time for ayproximately one year.

According to the.

the black 1961 lucudes was observed at its session su,

On September 20, 1967, the fourth source stated

that Mexican Immigration was confident that the subject was

the person who had been residing at Nubes #2 in Cuernavaca.() le

The tenth source advised on Detober 23, 1967,

that

the manager of the golf club in Cuernavaca had reviewed

photographs of the subject and confirmed that subject had

played golf there on the previous day, October 22: 1967.

Subject at the time was using the name Scalzetti and was

accompanied by an attorney from Mexico City, Jorge Castillot le

An eleventh source advised

that on December 8, 1967,

Ruth Doxenberg: a real estate agent in Cuernavaca,

stated

that she had handled the sale of the property at Nubes #2.

She said that the property formerly belonged to a Mr. ANDRES

and currently belonged to a company called "Las Nubes, S.A.,".

which is administered by attorney Jorge Castillo.

Ruth

Dorenberg did not identily the occupants of the property i le

The fourth source advised on April 3, 1968,

that Ruth Dorenberg had been interviewed by agents of

Mexican Immigration. Her full name is Ruth Dorenberg

Pennivich and she acknowledged selling the house at Nubes #2

and that the house was in the name of a company called

"Las Nubes, S. A.". She also stated that she continues to be

concerned with the administration of the property and has

sold insurance for a car and

a garden tractor in the name of

the company "Las Nubes, S. A.

NW 45792 DooId: 32292803 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SAMUEL GIANCANA

This source savised that it had been confirmed

that the subject had gone to Merida on various occasiona

and lived in the house at Nubes

#2.

A twelfth source advised on September 11, 1968;

that he had determined that the current telephone number

for the house located

at Nubes #2 in Cuernavaca was listed

in the name of "Nubes, S. A.," and that the number was

2-33-80. The application for the telephone was made by

attorney Jorge Castille and the telephone number was

unlisted, according to this souice. guy

The thirteenth source

advised on June 2, 1969,

that inquiry among established reai estate agencies in

Cuernavaca: Mexico, disclosed that most of the property

in the Rancho Tetela Section of Cuernavaca was handled by

Mrs.' Bruce Vickers.

This source quoted Mrs. Vickers

as stating that the house at Nubes #2 was available for

sale and that anyone

interested should contact his attorney

in Mexico City, Jorge Castillo.

The sixth source advised on August 29, 1969, that

he had been acquainted for sometime with a man calling

himself Sam De Palma and that he knew that De Palma

played golf regularly, owned a black Mercedes which was in

poor condition,

and occupied a luxurious home in Cuernavaca,

Mexico, where the telephone number was 2-33-80.

On May 27, 1970, the tenth source stated that

Mexican Immigration agents had again inquired at the address

Nubes #2 in Cuernavaca.

Source stated that the maid at this

address identified a photograph of the subjeet as the owner

of this house?

During interviews with FBI Agents at Englewood,

New Jersey, on May 1 and July 6, 1973, Celso Carreto

19135005.

advised that the man known to him as De Palma had rented

an apartment in Mexico City but also had a house at. Nubes #2,

Rancho Tetela in Cuernavaca, during the period Carreto was

working for De Palma. Carreto said this Cuernavaca residence

was owned by De Palma. He also stated that De Palma spent

very little time in Mexico and would usually visit about twice

a year for two or three weeks. He said De Palma described

himself as a retired businessman. u

5

NW 45792 DooId: 32292803 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SAMUEL GIANCANA

The eleventh source stated that on March 15,

1971, Me. Willan E. Beinert, Internal Revenue Service,

embassy. Mexico City. stated that he had beer

advised

FK Law 11(a)

The fourteenth source advised on july 13, 1971,

that he had seen no indication that the subject had been

in residence in the house on Nubes #2, Cuernavaca,

the

owner of the house had ieft the country and that it

had been sold to a Mexican politician.

counter ana that"

an 19hs.

On August 18, 1971,

this source stated he considers it confirmed that the

subject no longer owned the house at Nubes #2 since workmen

were busily engaged in making numerous alterations and changes.

Source said the house was reportedly sold to an individual

who had

once served as Governor of the Mexican State of

chiapas. RU

The

thirteenth source on Septemver 13, 1974;

advised that the subject's house at Nubes 72 in Cuernavaca,

according to individuals well established in the real estate

business in that city, had been sold several years earlier

to a former governor of the State of Chiapas.

Reportedly

the

price was 1,500,000 pesos ($120,000 V. S.)

IRS

REVIEWED BY FEWUFK TASK FORGE

ON

D

7/17/98 dad

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

CON

6

Niel

45792

DocId: 32292803

Page 8

---

## Page 9

SAMUEL GIANCANA

Attorney and Cover Companies

The terth

source advised on August 18, 1967, that

public records on file in the State of Morelos, Mexico, show

Te formation in that state during january, 1955, of a

corporation known as "Las Nubes, S.A."

The corporation had

a capitalization ot 650,000 pesos ($52,000 U.S.) and was

formed to deal in

real estate and for other similar purposes.

Its location

was given as Cuernavaca, Morelos.

All but four

of the 650 shares were held by Attorney Jorge Castillo Z.,

who was listed

as the only executive.

Castillo's age was given

as 44, birth place as Shreveport, douisiana, and his address

as Luna 135, Pedregal, Mexico City

receni Mexico City telephone directory listed

jorge Castillo Zepeda at Plaza de la Republica 32, First

Floor: telephone 566-8245.

The current issue of this directory

lists

Castillo at the same address with telephone 566-5900. 4

On November 19, 1959, the tenth source advised that

had been determined that Mexico City telephone 568-1570

was

an unlisted number for Attorney Jorge Castillo at Lava 135,

Pearegal, Mexico City.

The squrce believed that this was

Castillo's residence

address

The fourth source advised on April 3, 1968, that

Ruth Dorenberg Pennivich, a real estate agent

in Cuernavaca

had been interviewed by

agents of Mexican Inmigration.

She

acknowledged selling the house at Nubes #2 and stated it was

in the name of a company called "Las Nubes, S:A."

She had also

sold insurance in the name of the same company for a car and a

garden tractor. * u

On June 30, 1967, the sixteenth source advised that

a 1964 Mercedes, Mexico license 507-SY, was registered to

"Las Nubes, S.A."

,. Plaza de la Republica 32, Mexico, D.F.

12

NW 45792 DooId: 32292803 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SAMUEL GIANCANA

CAN ATE

Francof $4

The

tour th

source advised

on June

-2

9, 1907; that

subject's

attorney had displayed

post card recantiy received

from

the subtect iron dice, iranes ok

The eighteenth source

advised on October 31, 1966,

that records of the

U.S.

Embassy in Guatemaia City, Guatemals:

showed that subject applied for a

new passport there on August 5,

1086. 8 U

F132784

On November 10, 1972, the fifteenth source advised

that

former chaufteur

of the

subject had recently toid another

individual that

subject

lett Mexiço

september,

1972

106Xм)

for Italy about the end of

Lebanon A u

The fifteenth

source also advised on November 10, 1972

that

stated

of subject's associates in Mexico City had recently

that subjeat

was in lebanon at that time

(u)

On November

15, 1972, the sixth source stated that

several people in Mexico

City who were acquainted with the

subject had been discussing the fact

that he was believed to be

in Lebanon at

that time & VC u

In January:

1973, the tenth source advised that Jorge

castillo, the subject's attorney, had recently shown to a Mexican

Government official a post card mailed by the subject from Beirut,

Lebanon.

The source believed this was an effort by the attorney

to show

the

chat time.

Mexican Government that subject was not in Mexico at

• M)

14

i.

NW 45792 DocId: 32292803 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SAMUEL: GIANCANA

A nineteenth

source advised on May 10, 196?, that

Immigration records

ín Panama

City, Panama, shoved the

arrival

therenot the subject on September 10. 1966,

on Varig Flight

811.

These records also indicated that the subject left Panama for

Guatomala on Pan American flight

Spain] * 4

On

June 6, 1967, the fourth source advised that

subject's attorney had recently stated that he received

post

card

from

the subject sent fron Palma de Mallorca, Spain,

bearing a date in early May, 1957.

STATUS WITH THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT*

On September 21,

1966;

the fourth source advised that

subject bad recently been in Mexico as a

tourist and had made

application to change his status from that of tourist to

"tentista".

according to the source,

a fixed income.

They are legally immigrated to Mexico but

cannot be employed.

The Mexican Ministry of Government

(Gobernacion) denied this application, according to the source,

and the source believed that subject

thereafter left Mexico.Aa

The eleventh source advised on October 26, 1956,

that

the

Assistant Secretary of Government (Gobernacion)

that date that when the subject applied for immigrant status.

in

Mexico he was represented by a very prominent and reputable

Mexican attorney. The Assistant Secretary declined to identify

this attorney but said that he had personally admonished him for

coming to the Secretarial of

Government to present the case of

such a notorious person.

The Mexico City English language daily, "The News",

published

an

article on page 40 on April 11, 1957, bearing

the caption "Al Capone Heir Said Not Here".

The article says

that the Ministry of the Interior said on the previous day

that Sam

Giancana

was not

in Mexico.

The

article continues:u

15

NW 45792 DooId: 32292803 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SAMUEL GIANCANA

COME TAL

"The denial came in response to a daily's report

that the Italo-American gangster was in Mexico,

"According

to the ministry: Giancana was here

for a brief stay, as a tourist, last

year .

As soon as the

authorities learned his identity, however, he was asked

the country.

leave

"Giancana left Mexico Sept. 10, 1966, the authorities

said.

"He was deported by Varig Flight 811 to Panama."

On April 12, 1957,

the fourth source stated that

Mexican Inmigration had been in contact with Attorney Jorge

Castillo Z. and had been told by Castillo that

the subject,

to

his knowledge, had not been in Mexico since September, 1966.

This

source also stated that Mexican Immigration records showed

that the subject departed Mexico on September 10, 1956, on. Varig

Flight 811 dastined for Panama:

The eleventh

source,

on April 13, 1967, advised that

the subject's case

was briefly discussad.on February 12, 1967,

with the Assistant Secretary of Government for Mexico.

This

official stated that not only could subject not be granted

Mexican citizenship but that he would not knowingly be granted

any type of immigrant or tourist-type status in Mexico.

He also

stated

that the subject, if located in Mexico, would be subject

to expulsion, according

to the sourco.o)

On August 31, 1967, the eleventh

source advised that

officials of Mexican Immigration had repeatedly stated that the

subject was "circularized"

This indicated

* according to the

source, that subject's name

was on stop lists maintained.ot

various ports of entry with instructions that he be denied

entry into Mexico d

This

same source advised on September

8, 1967, that

an official of the American Chamber of Commerce in

Mexico had

enot a recent diot aster with no arises seen.

Government on the topic of obtaining more work permits

16

NW 45792 DooId: 32292803 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SAMUEL GIANCANA

Americans in Mexico:

The Mexican official pointed out that

the

Mexican Government had no facilities for investigating the

backgrounds of Americans applying for immigrant status to Mexico.

He cited the case of the subject as an example of an individual

who was almost

given immigrant status. He was vehement in his

statements

that the subject or any other person of that type would

not be granted any status in Mexico and would be expelled if

found within Mextean texritory ) y

On September 16.

1957,

the fourth source advised that

investigators from Mexican Imnigration had made direct inquiries

in Cuernavaca at

The

house at Nubes 2 and determined that the

subjegt had been residing there but had departed about

two

weeks

earlier,

This

source advised on September 20, 1957, that

Mexican Immigration was confident that the person who had been

residing

at the above address was identical with the subject

and that arrangements had been

tion if he returned to Mexico

Jade for his detantion and deportar

The tenth source advised on October 23, 1967,

that

photographs of the subject had

beed shown to the manager of the

colf ciub in Cuernavaca.

This individual confirmed that the

subject had played golf

there on the previous day and was using

the name Scalzetti.

He said the subject das accompaniea

by Attorney Jorge Castillo of Mexico Citi

On April 3, 1968, the fourth source advised that

investigators from Mexican

Immigration had conducted additional

inquiry in Cuernavaca. This source said that it was

considered confirmed

that the subject had come to Mexico on

various occasions and lived in the house at Nubes 2 in Cuernavaca

The tenth source advised on November 1, 1968, that

in a

discussion with a high official of the Mexican Federal

Attotney General's Office, this official stated that the

Attorney General himself had passed the word that if the subject

was in Mexico,

he should be informed

that his presence was not

wanted and that he should set outd

The seventeenth source,

on

March

27,

1969, furnished

information indicating that a petition dated November 14, 1968

had been submitted on subject's behalf to the Secretary of

Gobernacion, Department of Immigration.

The petition requested

17

NW 45792 DooId: 32292803 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SAMUEL GIANCANA

that subject be allowed to enter Mexico in the status

"rentista".

0f

It stated that a fund, guaranteeing at least

3.000 pesos ($240 U.S.) monthly incone for a five-year period

would be established with the Banco Nacional de Mexico.

The

subject promised not to hold

gainful employment in Mexico and

to subsist on the amount from this fund and from other income

continuing,

recent years had

been the target of harassment on the part

the press

and the

government in the United States and

for this reason he was seeking refuge in Mexico

According to the source, a supporting

memo

was submitted with this petition and stated

that subject

had requested

this same

imnigrant status in a petition dated

August 23, 1956, but that his request was denied by the

Secretariat of Gobernacion on September 8, 1985, and he was

to leave the country.

According to the

memo: this

refusal was apparently due to intervention of the FBI of the

Uniled States Government

which had falsely claimed that Glancana

was one of the leaders of the. "Mafia"

Concluding,

this source advised

that the above

petition was apparently not granted by the Mexican Government&

On December 30, 1969, the tenth source confirmed

that

sybject's name

was stiil on the lookout list maintained

by Mexican Immigration. The same scurce advised on May 27,

1970, that Mexican Immigration agents had again made inquiry

at the house at Nubes 2 in Cuernavaca. A

maid at this address

identified a photograph of subject as

the owner of

but slated that le had not been there dur newth lis

On August 24, 1970, the fourth source advised ibat

subject's case was still under investigation by Mexican

Immigration and that subject would still be subject to expulsion

18

NW 45792 DooId: 32292803 Page 14

---

## Page 15

SAMUEL GIANCANA

eir and is is is

The eleventh source advised on April 13, 1971, that

a new

Assistant Secretary of Government had inquired about

subject's case

and wanted to know if there had been any

confirmation of subject's presence in Mexico.

This official

ald that de intended to order additional inquiry regardin

subject and he commented that Giancana would

certainly b

subjact to deportation if located in Mexico.

stated that

information anth recede center deral Juditate volate

of Mexico to the effect that the Attorney General of Mexico

had ordered an investigation to locate Giancana

The Mexico City daily newspaper,

"La Prensa"

on October 24, 1972, page 21, carried

an article concerning

the "Cosa Nostra" in Chicago

and mentioned that the subject

was reportedly living in Cuernavaca, Mexico, and not being

bothered by Mexican authorities.

On the same date, the twentieth source advised that

Mexican Immigration officials wanted to know if the staterent

in this article could be verified and that Mexican Immigration

would be making additional inquiry

into subject's status in

Mexico and his apparent violation of Mexican law

а) и

The tenth sourse advised on March 7, 1973, that this

source had learned thatan inspector of Mexican Immigration hac

received an order

• to locate the subject and investigate his

status

in Mexico KYu

On March 11, 1974; the eleventh source advised that

it had been confirmed on that date that subject,'s name was still

on the "lookout" or "exclusion" list maintained by Mexican

Immigration. A

an June 28, 1074, the tenth source advanthat on the

previous day inspectors from Mexican Immigration

bbserved

subject playing golf at the Club Tabachines in

Cuernavaca.

When this fact was reported to their superiors, the agents

were

not given instructions as to specific

action against the subject

at that time, according to the sourc

19

NW 45792 DooId: 32292803 Page 15

---

## Page 16

SAMUEL GIANCANA

APPREHENSION AND DEPORTATION FROM MEXICO

A twenty-first source advised on July 18,

1974, that

subject

had been taken

into: custody on that date by Agents of

Mexican Immigration at his residence in Cuernavaca and was

being processed for expulsion, This source advised that

subject offered

no resistance

and admitted his identity as

samuel Giancall, f1U1)

The twentieth source confirmed on July 18, 1974,

that subject had been taken into custody at Caernavaca on

that date by agents of Mexican Immigration, The source said

that this action was taken under

instructions from the

Assistant Secretary of Government

The subject was scheduled

for summary expulsion, departing

Mexico at 8:15 AM on July 19,

1971, on Braniff Flight 028, destined for San Antonio, Texas. f(4)

September 5, 1971, the tenth source stated that

party of six Mexican Immigration agents went to subject's

residence at about

7:00 in the morning on July 18, 1974.

Using

a pretext, they were able to get subject to leave the house and

approach the gate where he was taken into custody. No property

or documents wore

seized. According to this source, the subject

was brought immediately to Mexico City and held at the Office

of the Inspection Service of Mexican Immigration,

The source

stated that the deportation of subject was based

not only on the

fact that there had beeu an order for several years prohibiting

his

legal entry into Mexico but also because he had no current

Mexican documentatich in his possession @(m)

The twenty-first source, on July 19, 1974, stated

that Mexican Immigration officials knew that subject's

attorney,

Jorge Castillo, was aware of subject's apprehension and that

subject was being processed for deportation. They also knew that

Castillo was taking steps to obtain a court order against

For this reason, according to the source,

it was necessary to expedite the expulsion order leading to the

deportation, of the subject on July 19, 1974.6 (U)

20*

NW 45792 DooId: 32292803 Page 16

---

