# docid-32303013

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10283-10025

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2914-3RD NR 34

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, HAVANA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/27/1958

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

FM, ASSOC, RACK AND SUBV, GAMBLING, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

/ DocId: 32303013

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Director; IBI

Legat, Havana (92-9)

SAMUEL MANNARINO, WaS.

ANTI-RACKETEERING

GABRIEL MANNARINO,

was.

ANTI-RACKETEERING

May 27, 1958

COM DENTIAL

COBIAZNDO

ASSIFIED

BOREIN

EXCE

h379m1

SP6BjR/gc

DADA 1/23/8S

Re Pittsburgh letter to Bureau dated 3/21/58.

on 5/21/58, Hav-31 advised that he had been unable

to develop any information that the MANNARINO brothers have

any financial interest at present in gambling operations in

Cuba.

On 5/23/58, NORMAN ROTEMAN, FBI #125825 B, who has

extensive slot machine interests in central Cuba with head-

quarters in Camaguey, Cuba, advised that approximately two

months ago SAMUEL MANNARINO came to Camaguey, Cuba, directly

from the United States to see ROTHMAN.

ROTHMAN stated the

purpose of MANNARINO's visit was to go on a fishing trip with

ROTHMAN and a Cuban Army officer from Moron, Cuba. ROTHUAN

stated, however, that on the day of his arrival, MANNARINo

became

sick with dysentery and was ill during his entire stay,

finally departing

for the United States after about five days.

ROTHMAN stated neither SAMUEL NOr GABRIEL MANNARINO

I have any financial interests in ganbling activities in Cuba at

the present time.

ROTHMAN informed that in the event the

MANNARINOS should attempt to pick up interests in the future,

it would be done through him since in the past he had been

Bro Ta to past

their representative in Cuba.

ROTHMAN admitted that the

MANNARINOS in the past had located slot machines and slot

machine parts for him.

ROTHMAN said that he, himself, is being bank-rolled

in his present slot machine activities by ALBERTO ARDURA MOYA,

one of the owners of the Tropicana Night Club and Gambling Casino

4 - Bureau

1

• Miami

DJB: mjs 7

(5)

52

SUN 17 1958

CONFIDXNTIAL

92-2.91

NoT REcOrDEd

117 JUN 5 1958

ALL INEORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS

TAFOLASSIFIEDE 211, 326

39/8=

DocId: 32303013 Page 2

---

