# docid-32327969

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90066-10210

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

NY

HQ

TITLE : [Restricted]

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/08/1963

4

SALVATORE GRANELLO

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

pacId: 32327969

21

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Reledsed, under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE 36 11+1122817

FBI

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Date:

4/8/63

PLAIN

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (139-8862)

(ATTENTION: ASSISTANT DIRECTOR

A. ROSEN

1-22-95

SP&MAC/ISK

FROM:

OSAC, NEW YORK (137-9495)

CONF. INFT.'

ALL'INFORMATION CONTAINED JAK

SUBJECT: NY 3936-C

METEN IS NOL/ANNED

"CRIMINAL INFORMANT

DAIL 173/83 BYps cl/gel

Source advised this date that he has recently

from a trip to Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic.

he was accompanied by his close associate, whose identity 1s

known to the Bureau.

He advised that he met this associate in

,the Dominican Republic and took him with him to meet ENU)

DE JOIE, who is the leader of a group of armed revolutionists..

who anticipate taking over the government of Haiti:

Source

advised that after exchanging pleasantries with DE JOIE, he

explained to DE JOIE that his associate was a technical

man who l

would help him decide on whether financial support to DE JOIE's

group was feasible.

He stated that he left his associate with

DE JOIE and flew back to Puerto Rico.

He subsequently ascertained

from his associate that this associate spent two days with

DE JOIE and was made fully aware of the armed strength of DE JOIE's

revolutionary group.

Ny

WItH JACING CARD Ised that he has had a brief conversation

and requested MC CARTHY to ascertain for hin

If any government investigative, agency is looking into the

activities of ANGELODI SPIRITO OF

Congressman FERDINAND. ST.

GERMAINE. He sal he requested MC CARTHY to expedite this matter

since he

is anxious to know of any investigation of these

CONGRESSORN

NASH. D.61

137-8562

- New York (137-9495)

2ec returned

WAV: pcs

(6)

destiny!

listers

2-16-60

Sent -

22 APR 10.1963

Appraved X

6'7 APR 12 1953 reli Agor

_M

Per

harge

DocId: 32327969 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy AssasSination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

2107 Motel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

N

NY 137-9495

Source made available a receipt number FPT 192654

of. the Chase Manhattan Bank dated 1/10/63. This receipt is

being forwarded to the

Bureau as an encloure to this airter n

Concerning this receipt, source advised that the handwritten

information was written by GLADYS TOWLES ROOT and was apparently

put in there as an explanation by Roor as to the methods in which

the hundred thousand dollars was accumulated.

As previously.

reported, this money was to go to JacK MC CARTHy and PHILdWISS

Source advised that the money is still ina safety deposit box

at the Chase Manhattan Bank. He also indicated that he has

in his possession two keys to the safety deposit box.

Source made available these safety deposit keys and offered

to furnish them to the agents so that duplicate keys might be

made. He was advised that these keys would be of no value to this

office.

Informant advised that he spent Saturday night with

an individual whom he named as SALLY. BURNS.

He sald that BURNS

nad been sent to see him by RUSSEL, BUNALINO and JIMMY DOYLE

NSA

It should be noted that SALLY BURNS is identical with

SALVATORE /GRANELLO, presently under investigation by this offiC

*under the criminat Intelligence Program.

to the source that he is interested in establishing gambling

activity in Haiti He told the source that IOWELLABIRELL

(presently a fugitive residing in Brazil) skipped wIth $175,000

of his money.

Source indicated to GRANELLO that he represented

stockholders who brought the original action against BIRELL.

GRANELLO then told the source that he presently sends BIRELL

GRANELLO also told

the source that he or ving one ten one

11th Street and oth Avenue InNYC

his conversation

with GRANELLO, GRANELLO also had/an individual named TOM

MARINO with him and another individual whom source identified

as

NUCRECO, Manager of thelplayboy Club in New. York, NY

NyNConcerning thelsheraton Tenney Motel at La Guardia

Airport

source stated that he was tora Dy JAMESXPLUMERI that Ny

$50,000 in "green" was paid to LOUIS SUNSHINE, Newtork IBI

official, to get this loan through.

of the Sheraton Tenney are putting pressure on SUNSHINE to get

this loan approved at the June meeting of the:

of the Teamsters Pension Fund or to return the $50,000.

-2 -

DocId: 32327969 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-9495

NY

source advised that he spoke to BERNARD SPINDEL

concerning the alleged 7 million dollars in gold bullion now

in Puerto Rico.

He indicated to SPINDEL that rather than

attempt to steal this gold, SPINDEL should determine its exact

location and he, the source, would then attempt through his

political affiliations in Washington to secure a reward for

SPINDEL and himself for pinpointing this gold for the United

States Government. He stated he told SPINDEL this in an

attempt to get SPINDEL to tell where the gold is so that he may,

in turn, pass this information along to the proper authorities, who

then would be in a position to possibly apprehend SPINDEL at

the site of the storage place for the gold. He stated that

SPINDEL "bought this story"

and is extremely anxious to get the

source to accompany him to Puerto Rico in an attempt to locate

the gold. He told SPINEL that he would not accompany him

to Puerto Rico unless SPINDEL had positively identified the

hiding place.

It should be noted that this source has an extremely

heavy work schedule and efforts are constantly being made to sit

down with him for an extended period of time. However, due to

his work schedule and personal problems at home this has not

been possible.

Arrangements have been tentatively made

exhaustively interview this source on 4/10/63 or 4/11/63.

It is

anticipated that if sufficient time can be allotted by the

source, all matters of an inconclusive nature to date will then

be resolved.

-

3

-

-RURA. NO

DocId: 32327969

Page 4

---

