# docid-32326704

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90056-10011

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :, 183-737-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SF

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

06/10/1976

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SALVATORE AMARENA

SAMMY PAXTON

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

TT

v9.1

HW 45906 DocId: 32326704

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SF NR 433

NR 011. SF COD

FEUCHAL BUNEAU UF INVESTIGATION

COMMUR CATIONS SECTION

JUN 1 0-1976

TELETU

PE

MJE

•Assoc.

Dir. :

Dep.-A:D.-Adm.

Dep.-A.D.-Inv._

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Affairs

Fin: 8. Pegs:

• Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell. '

Laboratory

Legal C it!

Plan. & Eval

Rec. M' "it.

• Spec. Iny.

Training.

Telephonio Rin.

Direr"

TO:

DIRECTOR,. FBI

FROM:

SAN FRANCISCO (183-114) (P)

SALVATORE AMARENA, AKAS ET AL, 'RICO, 00: SAN FRANCISCO.

RE SAN FRANCISCO TELETYPE TO THE BUREAU MAY 26, 1976,

¡BUREAU TELETYPE TO SAN FRANCISCO MAY 27, 1976, SAN FRANCISCO

Emy

TELCAL TO THE BUREAU JUNE 10, 1976 AND BUREAU TELCAL TO

SAN FRANCISCO JUNE 10, 1976.

VIA REFERENCED TELZIYPE, SAN FRANCISCO FURNISHED THE :

BUREAU BACKGROUND INFORMATION RE THE CURRENT CRIMINAL

ACTIVITIZS OF AMARENA AND OTHER SUBJECIS AS FURNISHED THIS

OFFICE BY

AN EMPLOYEE OR AMARENA.

AND CORROBORATED BY SAN FRANCISCO

POLICE DEPARTMENT (SEPD

REC-71

OTHER 4.:

737.

INTELLIGENCE UNIT.

INFORMATION DEVELOPLIATO DATE INDICATES

SUBJECIS, ALL NOTORIOUS WEST COAST ORGANIZED CRIME FIGURES

ARE INVOLVED IN ITSP, ECT AND HOBBS ACT VIOLATIONS.

THIS JUN TZ 1976

MATTER VAS ORIGINALLY REFERRED TO THIS OFFICE BY THOMAS c

KOTOSKE, SAN FRANCISCO STRIKE FORCE (SESE> WHO HAS INDICATED

HE IS EXTREMELY INTERESTED IN PURSUING IT UNDER RICO STATUTE:

Gi.

NW 45906 DocId: 32326704 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SF 133-114

PAGE TWO

DURING RECENT CONTACTS WITH

SHE HAD ADVISED

SHE IS FREQUENTLY A PARTY TO CONVERSATIONS WHEREIN AMARENA,

ALADENA "JIMMY THE WEASEL" FRATIANNO AND OTHER SUBJECIS

DISCUSS THEIR CRIMINAL ACIIVITIES AND ARRANGE MEETINGS WITH

ONE ANOTHER IN, FURIHERANCE OF THEIR ACTIVITIES.

INDICATES THESE DISCUSSIONS TO WHICH HE IS A PARTY OCCUR

AT AMARENA'S PLACE OF BUSINESS (SAL'S ESPRESSO CAFFE, SAN

• FRANCISCO AND AT

APARTMENT 39 FAIR OAKS, APT. 204,

SAN FRANCISCO.

HAS ADVISED SHE WILL COOPERATE IN THIS

INVESTIGATION TO THE EXTENT OF ALLOWING THIS OFFICE TO

INSTALL EQUIPMENT IN HER APARTMEN: TO RECORD HER CONVERSATIONS

WITH AMARENA, FRATIANNO AND OTHER SUBJESTS.

HAS

AGREED TO TESTIFY.

• DURING RECENT CONTACTS WITH KOTOSKE AND SFSF ATTORNEY

JOHN EMERSON, BOTH AGREE THAT

CONVERSATIONS WITH

SUBJECIS SHOULD BE RECORDED TO PRESERVE THEM IN VIEW OF

THEIR OBVIOUS EVIDENTIARY VALUE. ON JUNE 1U, 1976, EMERSON:

ADVISED THAT HE HAD REVIEWED THE MATTER AND FEELS ENTRAPMENI

PRESENTS NO PROBLEM.

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

• OTHER 4

OTHER 4.

NW 45906 DocId: 32326704 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SF 183-114

PAGE THREE

VIA SAN FRANCISCO TELCALL, SAN FRANCISCO: REQJESTED

ENERGENCY AUTHORITY OF THE BUREAU BE GRANTED TO RECORD

CONVERSATIONS

MAY HAVE WITH SUBJECTS AT HER SAN

FRANCISCO APARTMENT.

THE BUREAU ADVISED BY RETURN TELCALL

THAT EMERGENCY AUTHORITY COULD NOT BE GRANTED IN IHIS CASE

BECAUSE THERE WERE NO COMPELLING CIRCUUSTANCES, (I.E.,

IMMEUIATE DANGER TO A VICTIM, FOR WHICH BUREAU EMERGENCY

AUTHORITY WAS DESIGNED.

IN VIEW OF THE FOREGOING THE BUREAU IS REQUESTED TO

OBTAIN 30-DAY DEPARIMENTAL APPROVAL FOR INSTALLATION OF

RECORDING EQUIPMENT' IN

APARTMENT, 39 FAIR OAKS

API. 204, SAN FRANCISCO, TO RECORD HER CONVERSATIONS WITH

SUBJECIS SALVATORE AMARENA, ALADENA FRATIANNO AND OTHERS.

END.

HW

45906 DocId: 32326704 Page 4

OTHER 4

• OTHER 4

---

