# docid-32306889

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10291-10029

RECORD_SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-100316-35

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC. NK

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/20/1975

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT:

OBA, RES, AFFIL, ACCION CUBANA, FINANCES, ACA, BOMBING, ASSOC,

ANTI-CASTRO ORGANIZATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

-PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

NEW

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

07/07/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6(4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32306889

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John 1. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

JULY 1979 EDITION

GSA FPMR. 141 CFRI 101-11.6

• UNITED STATES GOT

NMENT

Memorandum

• I

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-100316)

DATE:

5/20/75

SAC, NEWARK (105-30002) (PLUREl

IFPROPRIATE AGINCIES

JOSE DIONISIO SUAREZ

DIONISIO SUAREZ ESQUIVEL, aka

AND FIRED OFF:

ES

ADVISED BY RO

EQUIVEL, aka

SLIP (S) 0F

IS-CUBA

DATE

(00: NK)

Re: Newark airtel to the Bureau, 8/7/74.

On 7/8/749

NK 5173-S advised that he had just talked

to DIONISIO SUAREZ.

SUAREZ stated that ORLANDO BOSCH was out

of the country, but he did not say where. His group,

SUAREZ said that

Cuba.

He was waiting for an accordance between Russia and the

United States to eliminate CASTRO, then something could be done

in Cuba.

9/29/97

CLASSIRED RY. 561

The Accion Cubana (AC) is an anti-CASTRO organization

headquartered in Miami,

florida.

This organization

has claimed credit for bombings in the past and is

currently headed by Dr. ORLAND BOSCH, who currently

is a fugitive and is reported to be residing in

Santiago, Chile.

funds for "Accion Cubana" was not

SUo du men van a that the sale ef bonds to raise

i going very well.

On 8/28/74, the source was contacted and he advised

that he had talked to SUAREZ several times on the telephone.

He again stated that the fund raising for "Accion Cubana" had

not been going well. SUAREZ had no plans for the immediate

future and was

apparently laying low due to recent FBI interest

105-100316-35

Classifted by

Declassity

Con: OADA 6A

30/53

CLASSIFIED BY 1692

XGDS,

CATEGORY

INDEFINITE

5 MAY 23 1975

-

Bureau

3.-

Newark

(1-105-32382)

pWM/ jas

16/2/71

LUN.

5010-110

ALE INFORHATTON CO

HATNED

2080a

1975

CALEND SHOWN

Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll 5st

Savings Plar

SECRET T

DocId: 32306889 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

GINEI

NILAL

NK 105-30002

SECRET

On 9/12/74, the source advised that SUAREZ had been

inactive as far as Accion Cubana is concerned.

mentioned anything concerning explosives nor did he or Accion

Cubana have any plans at that time.

with coexistent or diplomatic relations with the CASTRO regime

in Cuba, but he is assuming a wait and see attitude regarding

the events surrounding normalization of relations with Cuba.

On 9/30/74, the source advised that SUAREZ had again

stated that the fund raising for Accion Cubana was not proceeding

well.

SUAREZ was very disheartened that Accion Cubana is not

receiving the support of the cuban exile community.

founding

Mn 20/30/7, 3 (2670:2101

devisea|that SUAREZ was a

Revolucionario Del Pueblo; however,

the source did not know if SUAREZ was still active with this

group.

The Partido Revolucionario Del Pueblo (Peoples

Revolutionary Party) (PRP) is an anti-CASTRO unity

organization formed as a result of a meeting which

number of different anti-CASTRO organizations located

in the United States as well as other countries.

On 12/9/74, NK 5173-S advised that SUAREZ® wife told

him that SUAREZ was presently in Miami vising relatives and

had been there about one week.

On 12/27/74,

contact with NK 5173-s/and NK 5775-PSI />)

had determined that SUAREZ had not, been active in Accion Cubana

during the pri

disappeared. sappeared.(3

Three months, especially since ORLANDO BOSCH

2/12/75, NK 5173-S-advised that the subject had been

in Elizabeth, NJ, on Monday, 2/10/75, but had left for Miami

sometime on Tuesday:

The source did not know for how long

SUAREZ had been in Elizabeth.

members f the

2/20/75, NK 3350-S advised

that the Accion Cubana

is headed in

SUAREZ and JOSE

n.J,

(Кбг)

DocId: 32306889 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

A-L

NK 105-30002

SECRET

in diest, Morida, but hig me times to reside at s0s

Cross Street, Elizabeth, NJ.

On Saturday, 2/8/75,

SUAREZ was present at a dance

which was held at the

Elks Hall, 40 Cherry Street, Elizabeth,

Nº12

where he spoke at length with GUSTAVO MARIN.

This event

was held to raise money for "Abdala" and was attended by

approximately 125 individuals. 'SUAREZ turned over all of his

jewelry to a Cuban jeweler in Elizabeth, NJ, in an attempt to

raise cash for an unknown purpose. (R 1U)

The Abdala Movement is an international student

organization whose members are young Cuban exiles,

scattered throughout the United States, Puerto Rico

and Costa Rica.

Abdala was founded in

New Jersey ir

1968 and takes its name from the hero of a play

struggle against dictatorship. Abdala is a militant

a representative democracy in Cuba which is free of

both American and soviet imperialism.

To gain this end,

crisis to embarrass the

@ United States in their dealings with the Soviet Union.

in efforts to prevent any accord between

Cuba and the

United States.

Abdala favors militant demonstrations,

but to date they have not used violence.

On 2/25/75 NK 5173-S advised that SUAREZ had returned

to Elizabeth,

NJ,

from Miami

to Miami.

On 2/25/75, Dr. DORIS MORALES, Pediatrician, 1019

East Jersey St., Elizabeth, NJ, was interviewed by SA

DENNY

KLINE.

MORALES advised that sUArEz was employed by her

brother in Puerto Rico following his exile from cuba..

MORALES

advised that her brother trained SUAREZ in the field of radic

and television repair work.

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

=3-

DocId: 32306889 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

GONFIDE

I AI

NK 105-30002

SECRET

the records of the Department of Motor

Vehicles,

Trenton,

On 3/7/? NJ, were caused to be searched in an effort

to determine the owner of a white over green Ford LTD, license

plate number 287 AMA which was parked near 909 Cross Street,

Elizabeth, NJ. The following information was obtained:

License plate

number, 287 AMA is registered to 1974

Ford, green, two door, in the name of MArTHA QUARE cuba, cross

Street, Elizabeth NJ.

Education, 32 Green St., Newark, NJ.

On 4/1/75,

NK 5173-5 advised that SUAREZ is currently

employed by PETER CHEVROLET,

330 Central Ave.,

Newark, NJ, and

is still living at 909 cross street, Elizabeth, NJ•

The following sources of the Newark Office who are

knowledgeable

in Cuban matters were conducted regarding the

subject.:

inge

Source

NK 6093-PSI

Contacting Agent

SA FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

NK 5173-5

NK 5006-S

NK 2622-S

Date of Contact

3/14/75 &

4/10/75

3/17/75 8

4/24/75

3/20/75 8

4/15/75

3/25/75.&

4/24/75

SA DONALD W. MANNO

SA FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

•SA FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

12/7

15/7

8c

SA DONALD W. MANNO

NK 3165-S

14/7

15/7

SA FRANCIS Jo. O'BRIEN

NK 5775-PSI

4/21/75

SA FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

FAL

-4-

SECRET

DocId: 32306889

Page 5

---

