# docid-32334054

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10047

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 87-41245-1135

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 04/08/1963

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

BERNARD J. EZHAYA

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DEA, DOJ

COMMENTS: LHM, REFERRED TO DEA, DOJ

V9.1

DocId: 32334051 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

UN

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

(STICE

Miami, Florida

April 8, 1963

Re:

unknown subjects (at Alleged.

"Attempt

Obstruction of Justice

Re Memorandum dated December 14, 1962 at Miami,

Que Merl

Vis. A

Florida.

Manager at the can rod Hotel, Mack mecca, Reorya, melated

that on October 28, 1962 Bernard Mitchell of 940 Sheridan Road,

Chicago, Illinois, checked into Room 823 at the Eden Roc Hotel.

He stated he was

associated with Fulton Industries, Inc., of

Chicago.

Mucci indicated Mitchell was alone in the room until

November 1, 1962 when Samuel Stern of 387 Sheridan Road, Winnetha

(possibly Illinois) , joined him.

Mucci stated Stern checked out

November 8, 1962 and

on the same date Phil Litner joined Mitchell

in Room 823.

Litner listed his Northern address as 860 DeWitt

Place, Chicago, Illinois.

1962.

Litner checked out on November 10,

On November 15, 1962 Mrs. Bernard Mitchell checked into

Room 823, Joining Mitchell there, and both Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell

checked out on November 23, 1962.

Mucci confidentially advised that Bernard Mitchell

and the several other persons who occupied Room 823 with him,

appeared to be businessmen from the Chicago area and he had

had no reports of an association between them and hoodlums in

the Miami Beach area.

on January 23, 1963, William Kenney, Departmental

Attorney, presently assigned to Miami, Gene Marshall, Investigator,

no additional

information regarding the two individuals who were

allegedly in town to do harm to someone and, according to the

rumors, were sent by two brothers from New Kensington, Pennsyl-

vania.

They all agreed to contact the Miami FBI Office

if they learned any more information regarding this matter.

DocId: 32334054 Page 2

---

