# docid-32330826

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90093-10032

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-8100-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: NO

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/07/1965

1

NOFIO PECORA

ONOZIO PECORA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32330826

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorts

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, New Orleans

Director,

FBI.

ONOZIO

PECORA,

alsa.

AR

JUNE

1/7/65

- J. D. Donohue

Mr. Devic

2 - Mr. Kelly

Reurlet 12/31/64,

entitled

Criminal

Provided full security assured, authority granted

to conduct a survey to determine feasibility of misur

coverage utilizing a radio transmitter at the tropical

Tourist Court In New Orleans.

In the event you recommend

an installation at this location, submit an appropriate FD-142

with sufficient justification.

For administrative purposes, correspondence relating

to this matter should be subnitted under the above caption.

MAILED 8

1 - Bufile 137-10042

-: 8100-1

NOTE:

No office des lendred fublect a target for develoment

in connection with their Top Echelon Criminal Informant Program

on 10/29/64, and has requested authority to conduct a survey to

deternibe feasibility of misur coverage utilizing a radio

transmitter at the Tropical Tourist Court which subject operates

JAN7 - 1955

in NO.

6 JAN 15 1965

COMM-FB

NO reports Pecora is the brother-in-law of Joseph

Poretto, a top racket figure. At one time Pecora and Poretto

operated the Town and Country Restaurant which was reportedly

under the control of Carlos Marcello, NO top hoodlum.

name appeared on a list prepared by the Federal Bureau of

Narcotics in 1950 as being a suspected member of the Mafia.

Investigation by the NO Office reveals Pecora meets and discusses

It is

believed that misur coverage of him at the above location would

not only provide Significaht criminal intelligence information,

susceptible to development as an informant.

ad _

need for additional informanticoverage in NO and NO's proposed

action in this matter could possibly render assistance in

developing

the necessary

flivan -

top level informant coverage.

otter _

le. Room

-JEK: ra1

Imes

ndýt

JAN Pus

I ROCTE LY ENVELORE

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32330826

Page 2

ate)

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

---

