# docid-32328186

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90070-10004

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-107224-74

Released under the John

1992

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 02/28/1963

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

CRC

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL .

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LHM

V9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32328186

Page 1

---

## Page 2

RE: CUBAN REVOLUTION

"exiles." This article stated that Manuel Artime, civil-

ian leader of Brigade 2506, had revealed plans apparently

designed to make him an independent political power among

the exiles. Artime announced that members of Brigade 2506

would not be invited to join the U. S. Army, but he would

remain in Miami and work independently for exile unity.

This article said that Artime's decision puts him in the

position now as being independent of the CRC and of the

Brigade.

The February 14, 1963, issue of the "Miami

Herald" carried an article entitled, "Invasion Vets Back

Council." This article disclosed that a group of released

Cuban prisoners declared their support of the CRC and re-

jected any other leadership. This statement was signed by

103 members of the Brigade.

The February 16, 1963, issue of the "Miami

Herald" carried

an article entitled, "U. S. Plans Train-

ing for Exiles."

This article disclosed that MIRO CARDONA

announced that the U. S. Department of Defense and the

Department of Health, Education and Welfare would conduct

the military and civilian programs for the liberated Cuban

invasion prisoners. He said these courses would begin

the first of March, and would last from eleven to twenty-

two weeks.

DISORDER WHICH OCCURRED FEBRUARY 21,

1963, AT THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL, 1700

BISCAYNE BOULEVARD, MIAMI

Relation Of fee, X, 2700 81 May solara, mi, ade

-6-

53074 DocId: 32328186

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SC

RE: CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCLE?

available a copy of an undated letter on stationery of the

Committee for Non-Violent Action, 325 Lafayette Street,

New York City, addressed to the CRC, 1700 Biscayne Bou-

levard, serving notice that the Committee for_Non-Violent

a keputy a 1963 to letter won signed by lenty e

Lehman. He advised that the demonstration would take

place in front of the office from 10 A.M. to 12, Noon,

and that "We will stand in a picket line with signs and

leaflets to demonstrate, as is our right, our belief that

military solutions

may remove a Castro, but can provide

no lasting solution to the problems of

the world."

Mr. Garcia stated that members of the Council

were upset about this matter, and feared violence would

take place against the demonstrators by infuriated Cuban

exiles.

The February 19, 1963, issue of the "Miami Herald"

"Exiles Threaten Pacifist

brawl shaped up in Miami today when the Committee for Non-

Violent Action

announced they would picket the CRC, February

21, at 10 A.M." Their challenge, according to the news

article, brought quick reaction from the CRC... The Council

said that it was asking ten thousand Cuban exiles to show

up at the Council headquarters on the morning of the planned

demonstration.

The February 20, 1963, issue of the "Miami Herald"

carried an article captioned, "Injunction To Stop Pickets

-7-

HH

53074

DocId: 32328186

Page 3

---

