# docid-32259720

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/2/201

AGENCY :

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10102-10278

RECORD SERIES :

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 012388

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NI 54756 Date:

10-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: BLAKEY, G. ROBERT

TO :

BROWN, HAROLD

TITLE :

DATE: 10/03/1978

PAGES :

2

SUBJECTS :

DOD; FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: LETTER

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/31/1996

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 220.

v9.1

HH 54756

DocId: 32259720

Page

1

---

## Page 2

OUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

- RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL Li DEVINE, OHIO

WALTER E: FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART #. MCKINNEY;: CONN

& YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIT:

- CHARLES THONE NEOR.

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN..

HAROLO S. SAWYER, MICH.:

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN. **

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND. 2.

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA:

+ (202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

1143072

in verdo deat

H.*. House oi Representatives:

argani

3369 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

cartas

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515 15

59537

October 3, 1978

012388

The Honorable Harold Brown

Secretary of Defenses

WashingtonJ_D.C.ma

= 20301

Attention: Mr. John G. Kester

Special Assistant to the Secretary

Dear Mr. Secretary:

In connection with our investigation into the death

of President John F. Kennedy, the Select Committee on

Assassinations requests access to all files, reports,

photographs and index references concerning or referring

to:

1. Larry Huff - dob 8/3/31; Social Security

#534-26-3430; Military I.D. #1098664

2.

George Moffitt - dob 8/21/23; pob Los Angeles,

California; Social Security #557-26-2200;

Military I.D. #817681

3.

Ralph K. Fall - Radio Operator,

stationed at

Fort Smith, Hawaii, November 1963 to January,

1964; later transferred to Area Intercept

Operations. We also request the last known address

and phone number you have on file.

4.

Roy Gibson - Navigator, stationed at Fort Smith,

Hawaii, November, 1963 - January, 1964.

We also

request the last known address and phone number

you have on file.

In an April 9, 1978 response the Department of

Defense stated there

were no records, including logs and

crew lists, concerning specific military flights. The Select

Committee has received information from several retired

military personnel that master logs are kept on all flights

taken in military planes.

HH 54756 DooId:32259720 Page 2

---

## Page 3

The Honorable Harold, Brown

October 3, 1978

Page 2

The Committee requests access to:

Any and all master logs concerning or

referring to military aircraft stationed

at camp Smith, Hawaii in November

December, 1963 and January, 1964.

2. Any and all master logs concerning or

referring to military aircraft stationed at

El Toro Marine Base in November and

December, 1963.

3. Any and all master logs concerning or

referring to military aircraft stationed

at Marine Corps Air Station, Kaneohe, Hawaii

in November - December, 1963 and January,

1964.

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely,

X. Noba Blolsey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: j sm

14 54756 DocId: 32259720

Page 3

---

