# docid-32289656

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/2/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10201-10432

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-106633-5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NORRIS, JOHN A. JR.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

02/20/1962

PAGES:

29

SUBJECTS:

JHO, FCH, BKG, RES, TRA, TEAMSTERS UNION ACT, IDENT

RECORD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DobId: 32289656

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DAPT: 64-14-2017

FD-263 (Flev. 1-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIOAINTEL

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

¿CRET

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

SAN JUAN

TITLE OF CASE

SAN JUAN

FEE 20 F962

1/16 - 24/62

REPORT MADE BY

"CHANGED"

JOHN A •NORRIS, JR:

FGt

TYPED I

zho

CHARACTER OF CASE

ES

SYNOPSIS:

APTY:"

IS-DEMOLISS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR,

S.::

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

DATE

IN THIS DOCUMENT. JIM 6/25

The title

1s marked "Changed" to show name

of FRANK CHAVEZ, JR. as furnished by Lt. RAFAEL ALVAREZ.

REFERENCES:

Classified by Ses mus

San Juan airtel 1/16/62.

Declassify on: OADREPO

Euredy letter captioned "ARTURO BSPAILLAT; IS-DR".

=P-

1173)

AT.T

"SIFTED EXCEPT

APPROVES

LEADS:

ALBUQUERQUE DIVISION

AT ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO

r.10

Will attempt to verify subject's date of birth:

It Is noted that POPR records show CHAVEZ born 12/7/26 at Al-

buguerque,

while information

Furnished by cIA Indieater

birth date as 2/15/25 at Albuquerque.

(и)

DEAR INNEX-108

SPECIAL AGENT

CLASS, #

IN CHARGE

REASON ENS A CaST

giBureau (RM)

DUE US REVEW -

I-ONI, 10th ND,

171at tA Detachment,

(By Hand)

SJ

(By Hand)

1066333-5

RAG 72

I-OSI, Ramey AFB (RM) (RRR)

101

2-Albuquerque

(RM)

2-Los Angeles

(RM)

2- Miami (RM)

1€ FEB 23 1962

2-St. Louis (RM)

-V.

2-WFO (RM)

Legat attaine

3-San Juan

(1-159-17)

RUN TORY 1610 7 30/1

D¿. = FORW. 3a5-42

DocId: 32289656 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

under the John

• F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SJ 105-5396

SECRET

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source:

SJ T-1 1s Lt. RAFAEL ALVAREZ

(NA), DI, POPR (By Request)

SJ T-2 1s CS LA 3353-C

SJ T-3 1s Former ST 413-S

SJ T-4 1s SJ 346-S

Files Where Located:

SJ T-5 1s SJ 420-5

SJ T-6 IS SJ 394-5

SJ T-7 18 SJ 474-5.

94-32-90

SHADOR End VIRIYEA

94-32-1

94-32-2

Characterization of

PEDRO GRANT

134-329A - 134 through 141

134-242A-, 260, 262 and 306

105-3904 and

134-542-3 and 4

SJ I-8 15 FREDDY CASTRO, Former

union organizer, Local 901 (By Request) 159-17-38

•. SJ T-9 Is MM 768-0

105-3116-38

SJ I-10 Els

letter dated

• 12/11/617

(u)

105-3116-43

SJ T-Il is the Royal Canadian

Mounted PolIce (S)

105-3116-45

Legat Ottawa

SJ T-12 is Col. SALVADOR ROIG

97-89-52

(NA), Division

of Field Operations, POPR

(By requést)

Source used for the characterization of the SLIDE

was SJ 440-s.

-D-

COVER PAGE

SECRET

1051644335

DocId: 32289656

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Coltection Act of 1992(14-U56-7107-

Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

SJ 105-5396

ADMINISTRATIVE:

SERPET

It 1s noted that FRANK CHAVEZ, Secretary Treasurer,

Teamsters Union, Local 901,

subject

of this

report, is the subject-of

the following pending cases in the

San Juan Office:

FRANK CHAVEZ, aka.; San Juan File 159-17, Bufile

159-504, wherein San Juan Office 1s following the local prose-

-cution of CHAVEZ at Caguas on a charge of attempted murder

1n, connection with Union activities.

CHAVEZ is the subject of another matter captioned

"FRANK CHAVEZ, San Juan File 159-15, Bureau File No.

CHAVEZ, 1s Indirectly Involved In case captioned" JAMES

RIDDLE HOFFA, Miscellaneous Information Concerning Accounting

and Fraud Section,' Bureau File 63-5327 and case captioned

"El Imparcial"

Interstate Transportation

"Criminal Influence In International Teamsters Union, Local

Ji san duan, Puerto Rico, Anti-Racketeering"

Lieutenant RAFAEL ALVAREZ (NA), who 1s SJ T-1 In

report, advised that the Information he furnished was obtained

from FEDERICO VIRELLA, Public Relations Official 1n the Local

901 Teamsters Union, who is a paid informant of

the Police

Department and operates under the cover name of "Ace"

Lieutenant ALVAREZ advised that "Ace" could furnish

no other information other thanthat set out and was unable

to furnish any additional details regarding this information.

Colonel SALVADOR ROIG (NA), POPR, advised that POPR hac

Investigation on ROLANDO HERRERA PEREZ. He stated that the

POPR had developed an informant extremely close to FRANK CHAVEZ,

whom he contacted on a dally basis. This individual 1s a delicate

saurce of the POPR and ROIG requested that any investigation

conducted based on Information coming from the source should be

most discreet to avoid compromising the informant. It is not known

if the informant to which ROIG referred is the "Ace" mentioned above.

-E-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32289656

Page

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SJ 105-5396

SECKET

ROIG also requested that in disseminating the informa-

tion from POPR records regarding CHAVEZ, that it be paraphrased

and/or properly protected to further conceal the source.

Under separate communication, the Bureau is being

requested to authorize investigation in the Bahama Islands and

In Canada. (SU)

The report Is classified "Secret" because it containa

Information so classified by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (S

It should be noted that the information furnished

ALVAREZ and ROIG is classified "Confidential" by POPR,and

therefore, In the event of downgrading of the Information from

the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the report should be clas-

sified "Confidential". (5),

It is noted

that

the information furnished by CIA bore

no classification.

Careful consideration was given to each source concealed

and

T symbols were utilized only in those instances where the

identities of the sourcesmust be concealed.

The pretext telephone call was made by SA JOHN A.

NORRIS, JR. Using a wrong number pretext. When efforts were made

to determine who was speaking or whose number this was the

unknown female stated it was a private number and refused to

no i to and va gio made

repeat the name. The number was dialed a second time and again

the unknown female answered: "Union de Tronquistas"

some the !!

-F*-

COVER PAGE

SECRET

105-1064335

DocId: 32289656

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Mote)

F*D-204 (Rev.

DAEY: 3-3-5-11

11-14-2017

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

AGENCIES

APPROPRIA

AND FISTD

FICES

ROUTING

SLIT

DATE

912

Copy to:

1-ONI,

lOth ND,

SJ. (By Hand)

1-471st INIC Detachment,

SJ

I-OSI; Ramey AFB (RM)

Report of:

Date:

JOHN A NORRIS, JR.

fEB 2 0 1962

Field Office File #: 105÷5396

Title:

FRANK CHAVEZ

(By Hand)

Office:

WAINTEL

SAN JUAN

EGI

Bureau File #:

Characten

AGE INFOPMATTON CONTATNED

REG-

^3L

1719709911

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE + 12-12-44

Classified by 5P6' Mael pde

INTERNAL SECURITY-DOMINICAN REPUBLIC-CUBA

Deciassify on: OADR JFK

CA

DECLASCIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE IN CIA INFORMATION

sis:

IN THIS DOCUMENT. IM

CHAVEZ is also known as Frank Chavez, Ir. He was born 12/1/26 /

at Albuquerque, New Mexico and 1s a U.S. citizen. He is

Secretary-Tressurer of Teamsters Union;Local 901, San Juan,

Puerto Rico. He resides at 30 Doncella Street,

Punta las

Marias, Atlantic View, Puerto Rico. CHAVEZ sent to Puerto

Rico In 1958 from Los Angeles, California as personal repre-

sentative of JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA. CHAVEZ reported to have toid [4

advocates of independence for Puerto Rico that if they supported

GONZALEZ; a self-admitted courier for the Dominican Republic,

in July,

1960, was ordered by Secretary of ARTURO ESPAILLAT,

SIM functionary,

to deliver a letter to CHAVEZ. MATOS carried

a reply from CHAVEZ, to the Secretary of ESPAILIAT in Cludad

Truj1110. Later MATOS was instructed by the same Secretary to

go to San Juan. and verbally tell CHAVEZ to come to Dominican -

PERE MEY CHAVEZAt JAIm DI ARTURO ESPAILLAI In Dominican Re-

public. (SJ T-12 received information that ROLANDO HERRERA and [4

CHAVEZ WEre in contact relating

to a shipment from. the Dominican

Republic giver the code name of "pedal pushers". In November,

[4 1961, SJ T-1 earned that CHAVEZ was in the Bahaman Islands

and had met With various generals and TRUJILLO followers: On

November 24, 1961;ARTURO ESPAILIAT called by telephone one

MI: CHAVEZ at telephone #724-4729, San Juan, Puerto Rico, which

number is listed to the Teamsters Union, Local 901: CHAVEZ

SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS:

CLASS. B

-P-

REASON-FRY HI,

SECRET

DATE OF REVIEW

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

ot the

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

22

and is loaned to

8/32/82

DocId: 32289656 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John

F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017.

SJ 105-5396

-.

SEGRET

Date of

Arrest

Charge

Dispo-

sition

Apr11 19, 1961

Carrying arms; speeding;

not obeying instruc-

tions of a policeman

Released on $2,300

bond

Arrival in Puerto Rico:

On September 17, 1958, SJ I-2 | ladvised that FRANK CHAVEZ

who has been a business

tional Brotherhood of Teamsters, Warehousemen, Chauffeurs and

Helpers of America, was to have departed Los Angeles during the last

weekend for San Juan where CHAVEZ is to be the personal represen-.

tative of JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA, Teamsters International President.

CHAVEZ Is to coordinate the merger between the Maritime.

Union, the Longshoremen's Union and the

• Teamsters Union, which

;Is planned by HOFFA.

According to the source, CHAVEZ is an avid supporter

of HOFFA and has been contacting other Teamsters locals in Southern

California trying to line up support for HOFFA.

The source stated that CHAVEZ was able to speak Spanish

to a certain extent but that CHAVEZ refers to Mexicans as

desirous of

RISTRICE

SJ T-3 on 'September 26, 1958 met PEDRO GRANT,-

organizer

Office space with_ GRANT

Surface

Transportation Workers. @U

SJ T-4 on September

1959 advised that

PEDRO A GRANT attended

a meeting of the

Movimiento Pro Independencia de Puerto

Rico (Puerto Rican Independence Movement)

-5-

DECRET

DocId: 32289656

Page

---

## Page 8

Retcased witer

the Tour T. Hertedy

Hotel.

DATE :

11-14-2017.

sinat in Records Collection Act of 1992 (4t USC 2107

SJ 105-5396

SEENLI

¡E. PAINE and STEVE D.

Santurce, Puerto Rico, on October 27, 1961 advised SA!S EUGENE

EVANS as follows:

He 1s a close friend of ARTURO ESPAILLAT, the former

Dominican Consul General in New York City.

He first met

ESPAILLAT when they were boyhood companions in Ciudad Trujillo.

They served together in the Dominican Army and continued their

friendship in New York City.

When HERRERA was in New York

and was in need of money, ESPAILIAT furnished him with money

In amounts ranging from $20 to $100. This was done because

HERRERA was broke and on the basis of their friendship.

HERRERA stated he 1s acquainted with FRANK CHAVEZ,

of the Teamsters Union in San Juan.

He first met CHAVEZ

in the Dominican Republic on a farm belonging to ARTURO ES-

PAILIAT. near Ciudad Trujillo.

HERRERA believes this meeting

took place approximately eight to ten months previously.

CHAVEZ was visiting ESPAILLAT and was enjoying himself drinking

when ESPAILIAT Introduced HERRERA to CHAVEZ.

he hoped CHAVEZ would be able to assist HERRERA to obtain a

better job in San Juan.

When HERRERA returned to the San

Juanarea, he contacted CHAVEZ on six or seven occasions in

the Teamsters office, but when he realized that CHAVEZ would not

be able to help him, HERRERA discontinued his contacts with

CHAVEZ. HERRERA stated he has not attempted to arrange for de-

livery of any material to CHAVEZ and knows of no business

connection that CHAVEZ has or had either with ESPAILLAT or

the Dominican Government.

5J T-12 on March 6, 1961 advised he has received

Information that ROLANDO/HERRERA, a Dominican and naturalized

United States eitizen, was in contact with FRANK CHAVEZ.

SJ T-12 7 said his information indicates that HERRERA wa‹

In contact with CHAVEZ very often during November, 1960

exact nature of the

is expected that it refers either to firearms, bombs,

facts and related equipment. At first it appeared that this

shipment was coming

from the Dominican Republic by a ship

belonging to RAFAEL ABREU. Later it appeared the shipment

would arrive by air. It further was indicated that should

-12-

STORE

DocId: 32289656

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SJ 105-5396

the shipment arrive

by air 1t would be gives CRIE!

Dominican

Consul for delivery

to FEDERICO VIRELLA of the Teamsters

Union.

(2)(4)

EJ I-12/pinted

out that while "redat pushers" had

not been specifically identified, so I-llis of the opinions u

that they have not yet arrived in Puerto Rico. -re

stated it is believed that FRANK OHAVEZ 1s

collaborating with the regime of RAFAEL, TRUJILLO, but the

exact nature of the collaboration is unknown.

SJ Ta dad it is beileved that ChAvez has

IRUJILLO that Dominican shipping arriving in Puent i promisec

Rico would

be unloaded in spite of attempted boycott and pickets, in

exchange for which CHAVEZ is paid by the TRUJILLO Government.

the exact nature of the payoff is unknown, but itis apparently

related to the Pan American Distributors Company, an organi-

zation operated by SAMUEL and LUIS JAFFE, who are Teamsters

associates of CHAVEZ and apparently friends of

the TRUJILLO

Government.

In addition, ROLANDO HERRERA 1s believed to have

been the con- 2 one on December a 19531)

on December 20, 1960 that CHAVEZ

attended the Teamsters meeting at the Ponce Intercontinental

Hotel in Ponce, Puerto Rico the previous day, at which time

he received $20,000 for general expenses in Puerto Rico. Shortly

allowing this meeting, CHAVEZ was visited by SAMUEL and LUIS

JAFFE of the Pan American Distributors, which

distributes

Dominican meat In fuerto Rico.,

SJ I-12 learned on December 9, 1960 that CHAVEZ, several

days previously,

had travelled to the Dominican Republic

regarding bean

business concerning Pan American Distributors.

shipment had something to

do with the

for the

ST T-I27S(u)

that on December 7, 1960 CHAVEZ was leaving

Dominican Republic'and was in contact with ROLANDO

HERRERA.

There was

some question as to whether or not

CHAVEZ would personally risk bringing the "pedal pushers" when

he returned.

-13-

SECRET.

DocId: 32289656

Page

---

## Page 10

Released

Hotel.

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-11-2017

SJ 105-5396

SECRET

SJ T-12

stated that on November 26, 1960 ROLANDO

visited the Teamsters offices regarding "pedal pushers"

which at that time had not yet arrived in puerto Rico. The

Mipment was coming from General ARTURO ESPAILIAT aNd JOHNNY.

BBES'/GARCIA. In the

event the shipment arrived by Compania

Dominicana de Aviacion (CDA), It would be sent to Dominican

Consúl NILO H. SOTO,

who would hand it over to FEDERICO

VIRELLA.

JOHN ABBES/GARCIA is the former Chief

of the Dominican SIM.

[st 7-12 da that on November 16, 1960 It was

Indicated that as of that date the "pedal pushers" were

expected to arrivelon

the "Ozama" owned by RAFAEL ABREU.

SJ T-IZ said on December 20, 1960 that he Icarned

that FRANK CHAVEZ Was in a position

to beoome the owner

of the Escambron Beach Club.

Indications were that. CHAVEZ

will operate this business outside of the unionand there

were indications that the leamsters were taking over al

exports from Santo Domingo arriving in puerto Rico.

On January 16, 1962 SJ I-L/advised that on July

20, 1961 he learned that FRANK CHAVEZ is planning to bring

to Puerto Rico Major General ARTURO ESPAILIAT who was threatened

with death by persons in the Dominican Government. According

to Information received by SJ T-1, General ESPAILLAT was

detained in prison and laterpit at liberty by President JOAQUIN

BALAGUER. ESPAILLAT reportedly has offered FRANK CHAVEZ

Bass d0e to get him out of the Dominican Republic aa soon as

(5J T-8 on October 4, 1961)5(W

advised that FRANK CHAVEZ

and JAIME AMADOR were in the Dominican Republic for the

purpose of opening a Teamsters office

stated that the last time that CHAVEZ was in the Dominicai

In that country. sJ I-84W

Republic he ran Into difficulties and allegedly was detained

for questioning by authorities there.

-14-

PEGRET,

DocId: 32289656

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel. DATE: 11-14-2017

SJ 105-5396

1ts hands off its longshorements local cl

in the Dominican

Republic.

The article indicates that "more surprising

than the

pull-back from the Dominican Republic is the deci-

sion of the Teamsters not to charter members there at least

for the present,

thus abandoning months of groundwork

pushed through firstly under the dead dictator andmore

recently under his son RAMFIS.

A lease the Teamsters had

on office space in Cludad Trujillo was cancelled about two

ARTURO ESPAILAT fell from grace last July More recent talks

not to obstruct Teamsters organization, but officers of the

HOFFA union feel the climate will not make organization worth-

while.

So I-ll advised on December 11, 1961 that ARTURO.

ESPAILLAI, SAVOY. Apartment Hotel, Ottawa,-Canada, on

November 24,

1961 had telephoned one Mr. CHAVEZ at Telephone

No. 724-4729 1n San Juan, Puerto Rico. On the same date

ESPALLAT telephoned HEINAXAMADORE (possibly JAIME AMADOR),

Telephone No. 724-4445 An/San Juan, Puerto R1co•(5)

The Metropolitan Telephone Directory as published

by the Puerto Rico Telephone Company, lists the Teamsters

Local Union 901, 800 Figueroa,

Santurce, Puerto Rico as

subscriber of Telephone No. 724-4729.

On January 8, 1962, a Special Agent of the FBI

using a

suitable pretext called No. 724-4445. The telephone

was answered by an unknown female saying "Union de Tron-

quistas" (Teamsters Union).

Travel of CHAVEZ to the Dominican Republic

Sergeant FRANCISCO POVENTUD; Airport Detail, POPR,

on July 20, 1960 telephonically advised SA J. CORTEZ BALI

that he had been informed by a source that FRANK CHAVEZ

and FEDERICO VIRELLA, of the

to pent a pelvate adeplane ere det not on, nompanyanang

-18-

105106433-5

DocId: 32289656

Page 11

---

## Page 12

* Released under the John T: Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

*DATE: 11-14-20t7

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

U

LITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Post Office Box 4312: 19

San Juan 21; Puerto Rico™

SECRET

FEB 20 1962

FRANK CHAVEZ

INTERNAL SECURITY-DOMINICAN REPUBLIC-CUBA

Reference is made to the report of SA JOHN A.

NORRIS, JR. dated and captioned as above at San Juán.

SJ I-I, Who has furnished reliable information

in the past, received the information furnished or

January 16,

1902 from an individual in a position t

background and intelligence type Investigations ve T-1i

Sis a foreign source abroad. All other sources

furnished reliable information in the past. e

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI

and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to

be distributed outside your agency.

23°

* SECTET

105106633-5-

DocId: 32289656

Page

12

---

