# docid-32336971

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90136-10014

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-70973-3

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NT 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/14/1958

4

WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32336971 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FIRM NO. 64

Office Menw.andum

UNITED SNIES GOVERNMENT

GUN

NIAL

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-70973)

DATE:

8/14/58

SAG, MIAMI (105-1563)

SUBJECT:

WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAI

EE TAMARM READ COURTIN

I VARE SHOWAS

NSGASGTPIED

IS - CUBA

cecilla

8/20/08

Re Legat, Havana letters to Bureau dated

6/20 and 7/16/58. (0)

The following is a translation of an item

which appeared on June 15, 1958 in the column "RELOJ"

of the "Diario. Las Americas"

', a Spanish language

newspaper published in Miami Springs, Florida.

'May 19--The command of WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN

has been fighting for a long time against army

forces in the zone between the Soledad Central

and the South Circuit.

MORGAN's men, excellently

trained by him, a World War II veteran,

attacked the soldiers, causing many casualties

among them and seizing a large number of weapons.

from them.

The wounded were transferred in

trucks the same evening to Cienfuegos."

(4)

on July Z, 1950, RENE VIERA, PSI, who runs

the column 'RELOJ" in the "Diario Las Americas" advised

he has no information concerning the background of the

subject.

VIERA states he receives letters from the

Escambray Front in Cuba via couriers from time to time

which describes the fighting in that area. VIERA states

he believes he received such a letter from the subject

approximately six months ago. VIERA states the letter

published in his column on June 15 was probably written

by some, unknown. Individual in the Escambray front.

He

BEC,O

DECLASSIFIED AY A MAC SY

3U

Bureau

(Encls 2) (RM)

Mtani

d SE IN .28

REG- 58/05--

7019-

RLA :mfm

(5)

AUG 15 1958

2 ENCLOSURE

REG. 58

59 AUG 2 1 1958

averting "

not wil

CON

CLASS. & EXT.

REASON-FCIM II

DATE OF REVIE

ENTIAI

HH

54462

DocId: 32336971

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-1563

no longer has the letter. He states it is common for

members of the rebel groups to send letters via couriers

in order to have them published in the column as a

means of keeping the Cuban element in Miami informed of

the activities of the rebels in Guba. (l)

VIERA stated he may possibly be able to obtain

information concerning the subject from some of the

couriers who come to Miami periodically. He states he

will contact the Miami Office in the event he obtains

further information concerning the subject. (gU)

On July 14, 1958, RENE VIERA was recontacted

and advised he has unconfirmed information that the

subject was a room mate of PETER KORENDA (PH), an

American tourist who was killed during the attack on the

Presidential Palace on March 13, 1957. VIERA states both

MORGAN and KORENDA were living at the Sevilla Biltmore

in Havana at the time. (e) (U),

On July 2, 1958, MM 639-S advised he has never

heard of the subject, but will contact the Miami Office

II he should obtain any information concerning him. d) (U

On July 3, 1958, JOSE LUISKVARONA, 2100 N. W.

Ith Street, member of the Directorio Revolucionario,

furnished SA RAYMOND L. ACOSTA a copy of the "13 de MARZO"

(13th of March), official organ of the Directorio which

shows a picture of one "HENRY" MORGAN in the center of a

advised the caption is in error and the name should be

WILLIAM. MORGAN. VARONA states he knows that an American

by the name of MORGAN is a leader of one of the columns

at the Escambray Front. VARONA states MORGAN is supposed

to be a Judo expert who is very adept with a knife and

is believed to be an ex-commando because he instructs

the men in commando tactics Us (UL)

2.

CONFI

XATIAL

HH

54462 DooId: 32336971

Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-1563

COSE

SENTIAL

CO

VARONA states he believes MORGAN is from

Ohio and has a wife and two children whose whereabouts

are unknown. Cl

VARONA advised he would contact the Miami

Office if he obtains any further information concerning

the background of MORGAN.

heard of the subject, but will contact the Miami Office

If he should obtain any information concerning him (blu)

On July 10, 1958, IC CLIFFORD M. WERNER advised

there is no arrest or credit record for the subject in

Miami. (U)

It is suggested Legat, Havana make inquiries

at the Sevilla Biltmore Hotel concerning the subject, as

it is believed he was living

there during Masch, 1957-(4X4)

Two photos of subject are being furnished to

Bureau for forwarding to the Legat, Havana. 4J (4)

RUC

3

| NH 54462

DooId: 32336971 Page 4

---

