# docid-32315218

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10340-10010

RECORD SERIES:

MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ELSUR 92-139-II-47

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/10/1963

5

ANGELO BRUNO (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32315218

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-143 (Rev. 4-2-63)

•OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

5010-108

GSA GEN.

REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

:Director, FBI

(Bufile 92-2717

JUNE

) DATE:

December 10, 1963

SAC, Miami (92-139 Sub II)

SUBJEC

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF FEHNIUAZRER MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title ANGELO BRUNO, aka

Character of Case Anti-Racketeering

Field Office

Miami

Symbol Number MM 837-C*

Type of Surveillance: (FeMale a"

Microphone)

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

ANGELO BRUNO

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

Winter Residence of CHARLES I. COSTELLO, 12468 North Bayshore

Drive, North Miami, Florida

.3. Location of monitoring plant:

Central Technical Plant - Miami Office

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Initial Authorization: 7/27/62

Initial Installation: 8/31/62

5. Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places) :

None in Miami area

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions: NA

a. Is a trunk line utilized?

th cat the fred: re

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

c. Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone?

Bureau

Miami

Registered Mail

WFK: ame ame

(2)

luve

Searched

Indexed

Serialized

Filed

92-139 Sub II -47

DocId: 32315218 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

i DATE: 11-14-2017 -

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

T• If a microphone surveillance involved,

state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

1 404B MATE in Florida Room

8. Is the installation part of a tel-mike?

of the combination:

NA

If

so, give symbol of other side

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each

item involved:

(Add insert pages)

10.

(See attached page)

Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

No

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises:

None - monitored at Central

Technical Plant of Miani Office

b.

Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

3

- 2 -

DocId: 32315218 Page 3

---

