# docid-32303521

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10284-10033

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-2972-52

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

VOEGE, ROBERT A.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

10/28/1960

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

SMO, NEWS ARTIC, GRAND JURY, INDICTMENT, RACK AND

SUBV, ASSOC, GENOVESE, MIKE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45854

DocId:32303521 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG 92-235

2. Will maintain contact with law enforcement officers

assigned to the Richland Township PD.and the Chief of

Police of the West Deer Township PD in order that

immediate notification by these departments may be made

of any unusual activity in the vicinity of the GENOVESE

residence in Gibsonia, Pa.

3. Will set out appropriate leads on tangible results

obtained from telephone coverage placed on the residence

of the subject, bearing in mind that many of the calls

will be from and to his wife who is now residing at

staine at

Gibsonia, Pa.

4.

Will continue to make spot surveillances of the establish-

ments regularly visited by GENOVESE in the Pittsburgh

vicinity and, when advisable, will conduct physical

surveillances of GENOVESE on a selective and periodic

basis in an effort to ascertain more fully his habits.

5. Will bring any new developments regarding numbers activity

in the Pittsburgh vicinity, and particularly in the East

Liberty Section of Pittsburgh, to the attention of all

agents covering leads in the anti-racketeering "Top Hoodlum"

program.

6.

Will maintain contact with the offices of the U. S. Attorney

and the U. S. Marshal, WDPA, Pittsburgh, so that any new

information concerning the issuance of

a subpoena for the

appearance of GENOVESE or his associates anywhere may be

immediately brought to the attention of the Pittsburgh

Office of the FBI.

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following individuals areypresently being utilized by the

Pittsburgh Office in the MIKE GENOVESE investigation:

PG 573-C, who is extremely friendly with the GENOVESE brothers

and

particularly FIORE GENOVESE, subject's younger brother, ano

who

the

is presently being utilized

for the general coverage of

Red Eagle Club

and

its visitors.

- B -

COVER PAGE

NW 45854 DocId: 32303521 Page 2

---

## Page 3

OTHER 4

PG 92-235

PG 585-C, criminal informant of the Pittsburgh Office, who

412 Larimer Avenue, Pittsburgh.

She still visits this

establishment and comes in constant contact with MIKE GENOVESE

and other members of Pittsburgh's racketeering element in her

role as a medium-priced prostitute.

Informant is presently

traveling with Mrs. JULIA MINTZ, widow of JAKE MINTZ, co-owner

Of EZZARD CHARLES, former world's heavyweight boxing champion.

She is presently being utilized for the coverage of the

GENOVESE-LA ROCCA-NELSON interests.

a PCI who is presently very active in

Pittsburgh numbers operations, and who was arrested during

the month of August, 1950, in

connection with his operations.

is intimately acquainted with many Pittsburgh top

hoodlums and racketeers through association with them when

they began their racket careers. He is presently being

utilized for coverage of the GENOVESE-NELSON interests and

is also contributing information regarding the VOLPE brothers,

former Pittsburgh top hoodlums who are close associates of

GENOVESE .

a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office, presently

engaged in racket activity in the city of Pittsburgh, who is

being utilized for general coverage of lottery and numbers

operations in the Pittsburgh area.

a PCI who is part owner of the notorious

gambling establishment at Chester, w. Va., known as Club 30,

who is being utilized for information concerning the Club

and the interest

in it of Pittsburgh hoodlums associated

with GENOVESE.

a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office, who is

being utilized

for information concerning Pittsburgh prostitu-

tion activities and as a check on the activities of PG 585-0.

• a confidential source of the Pittsburgh Office,

who is being

utilized for information concerning the MANNARINO

organization in New Kensington,

Pa., and who is also furnishing

information regarding tie-ups with the GENOVESE organization

in Pittsburgh.

-C -

COVER PAGE

NW 45854 DocId: 32303521 Page 3

---

## Page 4

• PG 92-235

OTHER 4

a

confidential source of the Pittsburgh

Office, who was extremely helpful

to Pittsburgh Agents

during

the investigation of the RALPH KINER extortion

investigation several years ago and whose brother-in-law;

is a member of the MANNARINO organization.

a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office, who

is

acquainted with executives of

many of Pittsburgh's large

service companies.

THOMAS MARTIN, Vice President of the Real Estate Department

of the Fidelity Savings and Trust Company, Potter Branch,

Pittsburgh, who has kept the Pittsburgh Office advised of

new developments relating to the construction of the GENOVESE-

NELSON-owned Phoenix Motel, at Monroeville, Pa.

.a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office, who is a next-

door neighbor of GENOVESE and who is supplying on a continuing

basis information concerning the personal life of GENOVESE and

his family while in their farm home in Gibsonia, Pa.:

a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office, who was,

until recently, employed by GENOVESE at the Phoenix

Motel in

Monroeville and who is in a position to furnish continuing

information relating to the legitimate business operations of

the GENOVESE-NELSON partnership.

In an effort to increase criminal informant coverage, those

PCIs under development are being contacted on a continuing

and regular basis so that the information obtained from them

may be used on a day-to-day basis in connection with surveil-

lances of the subject.

INFORMANT COVERAGE RELATING TO THIS REPORT

PG T-1 is

a potential criminal informant of the

Pittsburgh Office who

was contacted on 9/13 and 9/16/60 by

SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

The source who furnished information relating to the telephone

toll calls made to the GENOVESE residence is GEORGE M. KEEFER,

Vice President and General Manager of the North Pittsburgh

Telephone Company at Gibsonia, Pa., who was contacted by

SA VEGE on 9/16/60 and who has requested that his identity

be concealed.

-D-

COVER PAGE

Siád 1009:

NW 45854 DocId:32303521 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-235

PG T-2 is

a potential criminal informant

of the

Pittsburgh Office who was

contacted by SA VEGE on

9/13/60.

PG T-4 is

PG T-3 is PG 585-C who was contacted by SA VOEGE on 9/16/60.

a potential criminal informant

contacted by SA VOEGE on

of the Pittsburgh Office who

9/16/60.

OTHER 4

- E* -

COVER PAGE

HH 45854

DocId: 32303521

Page 5

---

