# docid-32330865

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90093-10071

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-8100-34

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 01/25/1968

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS:

NOFIO PECORA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF SBA

COMMENTS: RPT, REFERRED TO SBA

v9.1

DocId: 32330865

17

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14:2017

• MD-263 (Rev. 3-8-67)

•:.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

NOFIO

PECORA, aka

NEW ORLEANS

1/25/68

REPORT MADE BY

11/7/67 - 1/24/68

SA PATRICK J.

COLLINS, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

: pd

REFERENCE:

New Orleans report of SA PATRICK J• COLLINS, JR.,

dated 11/2/67.

INFORMANTS:

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

NO T-1 is NO 1548-PC

NO T-2 is NO 1242-C

-P-

CONTACTING AGENT

SA ALBERT B. MILLER

SA NATHAN 0. BROWN

CONVIC. AUTO.

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED - NONE

FiNES

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

JACQUIT-

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR X]YES LINO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

DIVES INO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IT CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

ЗЬЕCIОРIИСЕ ЕЛСИКАР

92-8100-34

BEATLE

REC 67

1

3

- Bureau (92-8100)

-

USA, New Orleans

- NeW

Orleans (92-603)

(1e925603)w 30 2 0a biles

20211

I.A!

5 JAN 26 1968

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

CC.

AAG,

Criminal Division,

Date Fwd

Organized, he and Racketering

How Fwd.

By

Section, Edom 2524 1 ecdud

OFEB 8

1968

STRE BECT.;

DocId: 32330865

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNI-¿D STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUS'ICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

1 - United States Attorney, New Orleans, Louisiana

Report of:

Date:

Title:

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.

January 25, 1968

Field Office File #: NO 92-603

NOFIO PECORA

Office: New Orleans

Bureau File #: 92-8100

Character:

Synopsis:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

NO T-I believes subject is a member of La Cosa

Nostra (LCN). The Small Business Administration,

Business Administration loan.

-P-

DETAILS:

LA COSA NOSTRA

NO T-l advised on November 8, 196%, that he believes

that NOFIO PECORA is a member of the La Cosa Nostra (LCN).

NO T-l stated that this group is better known in the New Orleans

area as the Black Hand Society. NO I-l stated that this is

generally accepted as a fact in the Italian community of

New Orleans.

NO T-l further stated that another individual

known as "TUTTI" PAPA is a member of the LCN and is somehow

related to PECORA,

ACTIVITIES

As previously reported, PICORA has possibly visited

Los Angeles, California, to see his brother-in-law, D'ALTON

SMITH.

This document contans neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It Is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency: it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agercy.

DocId: 32330865

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Releasett under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act ul 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO 92-603

PJC: pd

On November T, 1967, the records of the Los

Angeles Police Department were

checked by IC MILLARD T.

ANDERSON but no record was located for NOFIO PECORA,

ONIOFRIO PECORARO, Or FRANCES SMITH PECORA. On November 14,

1967, the records of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Office

were checked by IC MILLARD T. ANDERSON but no record was

located On NOFIO PECORA, ONIORIO PECORARO, Or FRANCES SMITH

PECORA

On November 7, 1967, the records of the Retail

Merchants Credit Association at Los Angeles were checked

by IC BERNARD P. BLAIS but no record was located for NOFIO

PECORA, ONIOFRIO PECORARO, Or FRANCES SMITH PECORA.

Frequent spot checks of subject's place of business,

the Tropical Motor Court, 6507 Chef Menteur Highway, New

Orleans, Louisiana, during November and December,

1967, and

10:00 a.mo each

morning and usually departs at about 3:30 p.m. each

afternoon.

RELATIVES

NO T-2 advised on November 22, 1967, that NOFIO

PECORA's wife has a brother, who is a contractor, who ran fol

some type o1 state office in Louisiana in November, 1967.

NO T-2 stated that he believed

this relative lost his race.

FINANCES

$910 a month mortgage obligation promptly ever since he

borrowed $210,000 from the Small Business Administration.

Mr. ABADIE stated ¿in: PECORA's case the only possible charge

the Small Business Administration could file would be "misuse

of proceeds."

As a matter of policy when this is determined

by the Small Business

Administration, it is referred to their

Washington, D. C., office.

2

DocId: 32330865 Page 4

---

## Page 5

(Released under the John T. Kerredy Assassination Records Collection Act-of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

dend

NO 92-603

PJC:pd

Mr. ABADIE stated that in the case of PECORA, even

though he built a much larger and more modern building than

was destroyed in Hurricane Betsy, it would be very difficult

to show an intent to misuse the proceeds of his loan,

particularly in view of the fact that he is promptly repaying

his loan and that he has 100 percent occupancy on the building

he built with Government funds.

MISCELLANEOUS

Mrs. VERDE CRENSHAW, Passport Office, Department

of State, advised

SA KENNETH J. HASER On January 16,

1968,

that a search had been made of the files of that office but

no record of a passport application by subject could be

located.

3*

DocId: 32330865

Page 5

---

