# docid-32338623

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90143-10041

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-370750-230

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/27/1955

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

MH 54460

DocId: 32338623

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

• DIRECTOR, FBI (800-356137)

DATE:

berober 27,1955

SENTIAL

FROM

SAC, LOS ANGELES (100-18355)

30 h

716/25-

SUBJECT:

ATT INFOFLASION CONTAINS

UNCEASSIFII

WERE SHOWN

WISE

HEREIN

EX CEVA

OTHER

ONS. FINALIZED

COMMITTEE (DRO)

(10-23-70

CLASSIFIED DECYST

BY DEPARIMENT

DATE:

NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE

ARTS, SCIENCES AND PROFESSIONS

IS-C; ISA 1950°

Classhied

Declassity

on: 0R

Re my let 9/15/55 advising

thAt JOHN HOWARD.

259416

LAWSON and wife were leaving for Nework.

Although

principal purpose of this trip was to confer with his

publishers, LAWSON was expected to be in touch with

the Natiogal Council of the Arts,

Lences and Pro-

Pessions*NaASP) while there.

The following Information wes received from

Recent correspondence frum LAWSUN in New

York to the Hollywood ASP organization reveals that he

and his wife were staying at the Madison Square Hotel

and have been in touch with MARVEL COKE Of the ASP

organization in New York.

LAWSON wrote thathe had ob-

tained from COOKE considerable information about ASP

problems, method of functioning, and so forth; that

he expected, however, to meet with the ASP's Erecutive

Committee in New York to

get a more complete picture

of the entire situation.

The most important activity being planned by

the Hollywood ASP organization at the present time,

and apparently with the cooperation of

the ASP in New Wh

York, Is a rather elaborate testimonial dinner honoring

HOWARD. LAWSON to be sponsored by the Hollywood

ASP Chapter on November 12, 1955.

call for

include the preparation of a brochure which will

Plans for this affair

a summary of LAWSON's personal history and

achievements. HASP has already

sent out a great many

lotters to what are considered important figures in the

united States and abroad suggesting that they send of lul

Encls. 2 Eu

LAD IST

1243

REGISTERED

(41)

MMB CDC Litt

RECORDED - 85

118

OCT 31 1955

100-370750-2301

LintoN

CC: New York (160-93553) (REGISTERED) (enclso2

74 54460

DocT

32338623

Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 100-18355

CONFISENTIAL

LAWSON subsequently forwarded to HASP both

Ilats of names reforred to in his correspondence. *Y

On October 10, 1955, LA 3512-S temporarily

made available both lists, photostatic copies of which

are being forwarded herewith to the Bureau and Now

York for Information purposes. (X)(Ul)

List number 1 1s the l1st of 500 individuals

referred to by LAWSON in his correspondence of September

22 and September 27, 1955. The pencil notations I, A,

M, and R indicated thereon by LAWSON himself designate

respectively, Ilterary, art, music and radio. (*(Ul

List number 2 1s the supplementary list of

"Negro cultural and political leaders" typed up by

SUE LAWSON at New York ASP. (R)(Ul

Individuals appearing on both lists in the

Los Angeles area have been channelized or indexa in the

Los Angeles indices.

the majority of the names appear

to bo In the New York area. CUl

Other offloes concerned will be advised by

Los Angeles separately for information purposes concern-

Ing the comparatively fow names in their respoctive

territories.

It should again be noted in regard to these

names that LAWSON himself does not feel that all of them

would entertain any idea of sending him greetings; however,

apparently all of them are to be contacted for messages

of greating to be used for LaWSoN's tostimonial dinner-(W(U)

CONPNENTIAL

NW 54460 DooId: 32338623

Page 3

---

