# docid-32346625

## Page 1

Date: 12/08/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-10063-10073

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM :

FBI

THE PRESIDENT; CIA; DOS; DIA; AIR

STUDENT AGITATIONAL AND ANTIWAR ACTIVITY IN THE UNITED

10/30/1969

SUBJECTS : ANTI-WAR

STUDENT UNREST

CHICAGO ILLINOI

STUDENT DISTURB

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN

DATE OF LAST REVIES: JEKIO : E2 : 1993.07.12.17:27:06:460140 : EBI DENIED

IN FULL - 2/16/94; ARRB DENIED IN FULL 3/14/97.

[R] - ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

104-10063-10073

HH 50529

DooId: 32346625

Page

---

## Page 2

CAELE SECRETARIAT. DISSEMINATION

PERSON/UNIT NOTAFIED

CS÷O

ADVANCE COPY

O ISSUED

Tub

• SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

(When Filled In)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS

TOTAL COPIES

UTING AND/OR INIT

ALS-SEEN BY

OROUP 1

SEES

ПОЖИСВЯТІМЕ

DEELANSIFILATIOM

Y PROHIBITED

1N08X8

• не

CLAREITY

FILE +0.

CUBANGE

1730

PER

T0

ES FILE NO.

1134

Doree aro Darture to

FILE. VR. DCI, ADCI, EXIDIR DAT, ANDP, CSDO, A/SECURY

10-38-69 RNK

FBI CLINT

JK, PE, 6K, DJ, EC

gY;

DISSEN

9

ACTION.

UNIT

751-

113 tr

ACTION

но.

Pil

PRIOR IT Y

TO: THE PRESIDENT D02

TO: THE VICE PRESIDENT, ATTENT ION:

MR. KENT B. CRANE

TO: SECRETARY OF STATE

TO: DIRECIOR, CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TO: DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TO: DEPARIMENT OF THE ARMY: 002

002

002

TO: DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 082

TO: U.S. SECRET SERVICE, ATTENTION: PID

TO: THE ATTORNEY GENERAL (BY MESSENGER) -

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

UNCLASSIFIED

STUDENT AGITATIONAL AND ANT IWAR ACTIVITY IN THE

UNITED STATES.

30 Ост 69 M76385

THERE IS SET OUT BELOW THE HIGHLIGHTS OF CURRENT STUDENT

AGITATIONAL AND ANT IWAR ACTIVITY IN THE UNITED STATES.

THE NEW MOBILIZATION COMMITTEE TO END THE WAR IN VIETNAM NMC>,

THE STUDENT MOBILIZATION COMMITTEE (SMC), AND THE BAY AREA PEACE

NH 50529 DocId: 32346625 Page 2

• SECRET

71.00

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET:

IN 16385 PAGE 2

ACTION COUNCIL HAVE ANNOUNCED PLANS FOR A MASS DEMONSTRATION AGAINST

THE WAR IN SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA, ON NOVEMBER FIFTEEN NEXT.

END PAGE ONE

PAGE TWO

•UNCLASSIFIED

THIS DEMONSTRATION WILL INCLUDE A MASS RALLY AT GOLDEN GATE PARK AT

WHICH RALPH DAVID ABERNATHY, THE LEADER OF THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN

LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE; FORMER SENATOR WAYNE MORSE; AND RENNARD

DAVIS, A CURRENT DEFENDANT IN THE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, ANT IR IOT LAW.

TRIAL, WILL SPEAK. IT IS EXPECTED THAT AS MANY AS TWO HUNDRED

FIFTY THOUSAND PERSONS WILL PARTICIPAGE.

DR. NATHAN HARE, A BLACK MILITANT PROFESSOR WHOSE CONTRACT AS

COORDINATOR OF BLACK STUDIES AT SAN FRANCISCO STATE COLLEGE,

SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA, WAS ALLOWED TO EXPIRE LAST JUNE, APPEARED

ON THE COLLEGE CAMPUS YESTERDAY AND CLAIMED COMMAND OF THE BLACK

STUDIES DEPARTMENT. THE ION TOOK NO ACTION AGAINST HIM.

A PEACE RALLY WAS HELD AT BEVERLY HILLS, CALIFORNIA, ON OCTOBER

TWENTY NINE LAST TO PROMOTE THE MASS ANT IWAR DEMONSTRATION IN .

SAN FRANCISCO ON NOVEMBER FIFTEEN NEXT. THE SPEAKERS, WHO INCLUDED

CONGRESSMAN GEORGE BROWN, JR., DEMOCRAI-CALIFORNIA) STATED THAT THE

PEACE MOVEMENT IS FINALLY BEING RECOGNIZED BY THE ADMINISTRATION.

FOLLOW ING SEVERAL OUTBURSTS ON OCTOBER TWENTY NINE LAST DURING

HIS TRIAL IN CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, ON CHARGES OF VIOLATION OF THE

ANT IRIOT: STATUTE, BOBBY SEALE WAS LED FROM THE COURTROOM AND WAS

RETURNED HANDCUFFED AND BOUND TO CONTINUE THE TRIAL.. ON THIS SAME

DAY, DR: BENJAMIN SPOCK SPOKE TO A GROUP OF APPROXIMATELY ONE

HUNDRED INDIVIDUALS OUISIDE THE FEDERAL OFFICE BUILDING WHERE THIS

END PAGE TWO

SECRET

50529 DocId:32346625 Page 3

---

## Page 4

. ..

"112E) PAI

PALE THREE •UN C

_•AS SIFIED.

TRIAL IS TAKING PLACE. SPOCK TOLD THE AUDIENCE THAT EVERYONE IN

CHICAGO SHOULD PROTEST THIS "NAZI" TRIAL. FOLLOWING SPOCK'S

SPEECH, SEVERAL OF THE DEFENDANIS APPEARED AT THE RALLY.

I THE STUDENTS FOR A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY (SDS) CHAPTER AT THE

MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, (MITS, CAMBRIDGE,

MASSACHUSETTS, HAS ANNOUNCED PLANS FOR A SIT-IN IN FRONT OF THE

OFFICES OF THE PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT OF THE SCHOOL ON NOVEMBER

THREE NEXT AND ON NOVEMBER FOUR NEXT. THIS GROUP PLANS TO

PICKET THE INSIRUMENTATION LABORATORY AT THE SCHOOL TO PREVENT

WORKERS AND STUDENTS FROM ENTERING THE BUILDING. THE LEADER OF

SS HAS STATED HE IS SEEXING A DIRECI CONFRONTATION WITH

AUTHOR IT IS AT MIT.

THE REVOLUTIONARY BRIGADE, A GROUP WHICH IS BELIEVED TO BE

COMPOSED OF ELEMENTS OF THE MORE MILITANT FACTIONS OF SDS, HAS MADE.

PLANS TO BE IN WASHINGION, D. C., ON NOVEMBER THIRTEEN NEXT TO

PARTICIPATE IN THE INSUING DEMONSTRATIONS. IHIS GROUP REPORTEDLY PLANS

TO DETACH ITSELF FROM THE MAIN GROUP ON NOVEMBER FOURTEEN NEXT TO

TAKE "ACTION TACTICS" IN FRONT OF THE DEPARIMENI OF JUSTICE ON

NOVEMBER FIFTEEN NEXT, IT WILL DO THE SAME AT THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE

EMBASSY.

""ACTION TACTICS" ARE NOT FURTHER DESCRIBED.

ABBY HOFFMAN AND JERRY RUBIN, BOTH DEFENDANTS IN THE CURRENT

TRIALS IN CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, REPORTEDLY HAVE COMMENTED THAT IF THEY

END PAGE THREE

SECRET

HH: 50529 DocId: 32346625 • Page 4

---

## Page 5

CLASSIFY ED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 76385 PAGE Y

PAGE FOUR UNCLASSIFIED

CAN GET SUPPORT FROM THE CROWD IN WASHINGTON, D. C., DURING THE

NOVEMBER FIFTEEN NEXT DEMONSTRATION, AN ATTEMPT WILL BE MADE TO

BREAK INTO THE DEPARIMENI OF JUSTICE, BREAKING WINDOWS, AND

POSSIBLY USING MOLOTOV COCKTAILS. WHILE POLICE ARE BUSY AT

THE SCENE, AN ATTEMPI WILL BE MADE TO BLOW UP THE VIETNAMESE

EMBASSY.

A GROUP. KNOWN AS TRANSCENDENTAL STUDENTS AT NEW YORK UNIVERSITY

DEMONSTRATED AGAINST THE RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS (ROTC)

AT THAT SCHOOL ON OCTOBER TWENTY EIGHT LAST. DURING THE DEMON?-

STRATION, THEY PAINTED THE DOORS OF THE BUILDING WITH THE WORDS

"CORPORATE - ROIC" AND SMASHED BEER BOTTLES AGAINST THE LAW

SCHOOL BUILDING.

MEMBERS OF SDS AT THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT BUFFALO

DEMONSTRATED AGAINST ROTC ON OCTOBER TWENTY EIGHT LAST.

AT AN SDS RALLY HELD AT KENT STATE UNIVERSITY ONOCTOBER IWENTY

NINE LAST, MARK REAL, SDS ORGANIZER, TOLD HIS AUDIENCE THAT THIS

YEAR IS THE YEAR OF VIOLENCE AND. ADVOCATED SUPPORTERS OBTAIN FIREARMS

TO DEFEND THEMSELVES. ON BEING ASKED WHO HE REPRESENTED, HE REPLIED,

"RED CHINA AND THE NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT."

THE NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY, AN EXTREMIST RIGHI WING

GROUPS IS REPORTEDLY TOURING. THE COUNTRY IN AN EFFORT IO "ST IR

UP TROUBLE WITH THE HIPPIES" AND TO ORGANIZE DISRUPTIONS. AGAINST THE

END PAGE FOUR

SECRET

-14 50529 DocId: 32346625 Page

5

---

## Page 6

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET.

IN 76385Pi 1-

PAGE FIVE

UNCLASSIFIED

FORIHCOMING DEMONSTRATIONS IN WASHINGION, D. C., BEING HELD ON

NOVEMBER FIFTEEN NEXT•

A FUND-RAISING PARTY HAS REPORTEDLY BEEN SCHEDULED DURING THE

WEEK OF NOVEMBER TEN NEXI AT THE HOME OF HUGH HEFNER, PUBLISHER

OF "PLAYBOY" MAGAZINE, TO RAISE FUNDS FOR THE NMC. SEVERAL

UN IDENTIFIED HIGHTRANKING GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS ARE EXPECTED TO

ATTEND®

BT

14 50529

: DocId: 32346625 Page 6•

SECRET

---

