# docid-32565126

## Page 1

PH 92-441

If any, bỳ. A. B. S, for Fairfrox, should be obtained.

WASHINGTON FIELD:

AT' WASHINGTON, D. C.:

At the U. S. District Court, will follow subject's

appeal of the INS deportation order.

PHILADELPHTA:

AT AVOCA, PA.:

Will locate and interview JACK WALSH, 516 South

Street

L

subject:

AT PITTSTON, PA.:

Will maintain contact with the following concerning

PH 521-C

PH 526-C

Officer JOSEPH DUTANEY, Pittston Police Department

AT SCRANTON, PA.:

1, Will maintain contact with the following:

FRANK GRIMES, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division

PCI

PCI

PCI

PCI

PCI

OTHER 4 /

559-C

PH 577-C

ROBERT QUINTAN, Accountant, Connell Building

2. Will discreetly, through established sources,

attempt to identify HENRY ASHMAN, who resides either. in

Taylor or Old Forge, Pa.

- C

-

COVER

PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32565126 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PH. 92-441

3. Will attempt to develop a

source concerning

the subject at the Casa Mia Bar.

: Consideration should be

given to contacting-GINA KOPPENHAVER, who was recently

beaten by GINA. KOPPENHAVER,

who was recently beaten by

VITO SANTORO, her boy friend.

4. Will check records at Dun and Bradstreet

and the Commercial Association concerning Sandy Juniors,

501 - 7th Avenue, New York City, which is reported a "front"

and operated for the subject.

5. Will, unless sufficient reason to the contrary

exists, interview MARIE PLEAPPERT, 640 Jefferson Avenue, or

724 Pittston Avenue:

Street.

6: Will. Interview MICHAEL KAVULICH, 1129 Rundel

AT WILKES-BARRE; PA.

1:

Will, at the Luzerne County Courthouse,

follow prosecution presently pending against SAMUEL DE BELLA

and other members of the criminal gang with which ne was

associated in a number of burglaries

and robberies.

?.

Will also follow prosecution in the Luzerne

County Courthouse, against MODESTO LOQUASTO, who was arrested

in connection with the operation of an illegal alcohol

still at Exeter, Pa.

3:

Maintain contact with PH 573-C.

AT TUNKHANNOCK, PA. :

Will maintain contact with Trooper 'EUGENE CORBETT,

Pennsylvania State Police, concerning the activities. of the

subject.

AT PHILADELPHIA, *PA.:

Maintain contact with Immigration Service concerning

subject's status:

- D -

COVER.

• PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32565126 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-441

INFORMANTS

PCI

PH T-1

PH I-2

PH T-3

PH T-4

PH T-5.

•OTHER 4

PCI

PH 521-C

PH 526-C

ANN O, TOOLE,

Supervising Clerk,

Bell Telephone Company

PH T-5

PH.T-7

PH T-8

PH. T-9

•PH. T-10

PCI

Dun and Bradstreet,.

New York City

NY 2653-0

JOE PEARCE,

Southern Bell

Telephone Company,

Miami Beäch, Fla.

PH 559-C

PH T-1I

PH T-12

PH T-13

PCI

PH 577-C

- E*

-

COVER PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32565126 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-441

At Harveys Lake, Pa.

Will identify and consider interview of the following:

DONAID WILLIAMS

ANGELO J. PICCHI

At Old Forge, Pa.

1.

Will identify and consider interview of DAVID W.

LEWIS and Mrs. HARRIET RAWLING,

both 120 Powell Street.

Telephone call was made to the telephone at this address from

subject's residence.

2.

Will locate and interview "ROCKY" GRAZIOSI, 77

Connell Street, for information concerning the subject and his

current activities.

At Philadelphia, Pa.

will maintain contact with Immigration and Naturaliza-

sion service and in particular with Special Agent JAMES HOSTETTEF

relative to status of subject's appeal against deportation.

At Pittsion, Pa.

Will maintain contact with the following:

PH 521-C;

Sergeant JOSEPH DELANEY, Pittston PD;

Mrs. JOHN COOK, George Street;

First National Bank, South Main Street

At Scranton, Pa.

1.

Will maintain contact with FRANK GRIMES, ANTD, U.S:

Treasury Department, for information concerning activities

subject.

- C .

COVER PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32565126 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PH 92-441

2:

3.

Will identity and consider interview with following:

MARIE PLEAPPART, 1724 Pittston Avenue.

MICHAEL KAVULICH, 1129 Rundle Street

Will maintain contact with the following:

PH 559-C

PH 577-0

4.

Will identify the subscribers to the following

telephone numbers which were called from

the subject's

residence

on the dates indicated:

Scranton:

Diamond 7=0213

DIamond 3-9326

DIamond 4-4689

DIamond 6-4675

DIamond 6=1875

DIamond 2-1184

7/10/60

6/30/60

1/8/61

1/8/61

1/31/61

1/31/61

Moosic:

GLenwood 7=7860

GLenwood 7-9160

GLenwood-7-5330

laylor 8-742

1/31/61 •

1/31/61

1/31/61

7/22/60

At Trucksville, Pa.

Will identify and consider interview of THOMAS CARLE,

Lewis Avenue, whose home was called from subject's residence.

At Tunkhannock, Pa.

WIll maintain contact with Irooper EUGENE CORBETT,

Pennsylvania State Police, for Information concerning subject's

activities.

-D-

COVER PA GE

NW 45739 DocId: 32565126 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PH 92-447

At Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

Maintain contact with PH. 573-C

At wyoming, Pa.

Maintain contact with the Pennsylvania State Police, in

Sergeant LOUIS SHUPNIK,

for information concerning

by the PSP in Pittston, Pa., In connection with numerous

burglaries and robberies.

Informants

PH I-1, STEWART M. ENGLISH,

Manager, New York Telephone Company,

Binghamton,

N.Y.

(By request)

PH I-2,

FRANK GRIMES, ATID

(By request)

PH T-3, CS WF. 28

PH I-4, BA CS-2

PH T-5,

Baltimore PCI

PH II-5, PH 559-0

PH T-T, PH 577-C

PH I-8, ANN VANNER,

Wyoming Coal Company

Scranton, Pa.

(By request)

PH T-9, PH 526-C

PH T-10, Sergeant JOSEPH DELANEY,

Pittston Police Department

(By request)

OTHER 4

E-

_COVER_PAGE

NW 45739

DocId: 32565126 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PH 92-441

PH I-11, P 573-0

PH T-12, FRANK TRACEY, Postmaster

Pittston, Pa.

PH I-13, RICHARD KLOFACH,

Bell Telephone Company Manager,

PH T-15, MARY LAWRENCE, Clerk

Dun and Bradstreet,

Scranton, Pa.

(By request)

PH I-16, JOSEPH FELDMAN,

Eastern Airlines,

Wilkes-Barre-Scranton Airport,

Avoca, Pa

(By request)

PH I-18, Mrs. JOHN COOK,

George Street,

Pittston, Pa.

COVER PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32565126 Page 7

---

