# docid-32290451

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10205-10227

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-1245, 1246, 1247

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

AMBLER, JOHN A.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/14/1967

PAGES:

58

SUBJECTS:

LST, BKG INVEST, ASSOC, REL, B/F INT, SURVEILLANCES,

RES, TELCAL, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 2 TTY

y9.1

H₩ 45966

DocId: 32290451

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FBI WASH

DC

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

MUNICATIONS SECTION

DEC 71967 BIM.

TELETYPE

FBI TAMPA

457PM URGENT 12-7-67 BLW •

TO DIRERTOR (92-2781) AND NEW YORK (92-846)

FROM

TAMPA (92-1)

Mr. Tolson

Mr. DeLoach.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Bishop_

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt.

Mr: Fale.

ir. Rose

Ar. Sullivar

Mr. Tavel...

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy.

- K:

18

SANTO

(RAFFICANTE, ANA, AR, DO IAMPA.

IP ONE TWO ZERO - C ADVISES TRAFFICANTE DEPARTED :

TAMPA EARLY A.M. DECEMBER SIXX, ALST ENROUTE IO NEW

YORK. RECORDS EASTERN AIRLINES REFLECT INDIVIDUAL

BELIEVED IDENTICAL WITH SUBJECT USING NAME S. OR

T. VALDES WAS A WALK-UP OBTAINING FIRST CLASS PASSAGE

FLIGHT ONE SIX ZERO DEPARTING EIGHT A.M.

ARRIVING

J.F. KENNEDY AIRPORT TEN TWENTY-ONE A.M. DECEMBER

SIX. NEW YORK REQUESTED TO CONDUCT APPROPRIATE

INVESTIGATION JOF. KENNEDY AIRPORT IN AN EFFORT QIO

PLACE TRAFFICANTE IN NEW YORK. POSSIBILITY EXISTS

REASON FOR TRIP TO ATTEND COLUMBO WEDDING DECEMBER NINE,

NEXT. TAMPA HIGHLY DESIROUS OF BEING ADVISED WHEN

TRAFFICANTE DEPARTS NEW YORK SO APPROPRIATE COVERAGE

MAY BE AFFORDED AT TAMPA AIRPORT UPON ARRIVAL.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

END

REC-34 : 92-

P42- 81- 1246

11 DEC 19 1967

550E0 221967

— XEROX

HH- 45966

DocId: 3229dEG 196kge 2

---

## Page 3

iri

-9L-263 TRer. 3-34671

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REFORTING OFFICE

TAMPA

OFFICE GEONIGIN

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

CHANGE

SANTO TRAFFICANCS, JB.,

Saxon

aka

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

DEC 1 ÷ 1967

10/16/67 - 12/1/67

REPORT MADE BY

SA JOIN A. ANGLER

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPES 9I

ID

10

CONVIC/AUTO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Title of this report is being rarked "CHANGED".

to reflect alias SAXON used by TRAFFICANIE in travel from

Tampa, Florida, to Miami, Florida.

REFERENCES:

Report of SA JOHN A. AUBIER, dated 10/30/67,

at Tampa.

Tanya airtels to Director, dated 11/8 and

11/24/67.

Jackson airtels to Tanpa, dated 11/13, and

12/6/S7.

Report of SA VENDELL. HALL, JE., dated

11/2:/67, at

Miami.

Burcau airtel to Tamon, dated 11/29/67.

Richrond letter to Tança, cated 11/29/67. (I0)

Jacksonville letter to

Tampa, dated 12/4/67. (I0)

Tenga teletype to Director, inted 12/7/87.

-P-

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

None

FUG

FINES

ACQUIT

SAVINGS

RECOVER'ES

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR DYES CONO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SFACES SELOW!

---

-

Bureau (92-8791)

USA,

Tampa

3

- Miami (92-38)

92-2781-1243W722

(1 - USA, Miani, Attention:

WITITAN CAULE,

4- DEC 15 1967

2 - New York (92-815)

Dept. Atüy.)

2 - Tampa (92-1)

153)

Dissemination Pocord of Attached Repor:

Notations

Agency

Request Recd. i -

Date Fid

Organised Crite wid pchestering

Section, Roomy

2h21

ilors Furl.

59J7N

86

NW 45966 DocId: 32290451 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TP 92-1

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Infornation from records of General Telephone Company

of florida was made available by bir. JAles E. MclAtON, Security

Director.

On October 30, 1967, TP 120-C advised SA JOHN A.

AMBLER that the Civil Suit involving Mrs. TRAFFICANIE, Who

was injured

in an automobile accident, had not been settled

and that during the time Mrs. TRAFFICANIE was re-

cuperating from the accident, on the expenses to be claimed

from an insurance company, the TRAFFICANTE's had

paid the

household maid by check drawn on Mrs. TRAFFICANTE'S

account at the Central. Bank in Tampa, in the amount of

$28.75: TP 120-0 advised that this

was a very unusual pro-

cedure, as usually the maid is paid in cash and that, in

addition, Mrs. TRAFFICANTE wanted

the maid to endorse three

extra checks

so that an additional claim could be made

against

the insurance company, but the maid would not sign

additional checks.

TP 120-c added that both SANTO

TRAFFICANTE are

in poor health and

" that SANTO is of

the opinion he has cancer of the bowels and

has lost con-

siderable weight since

the first of the year. TP 120-c added

on a recent occasion TRAFFICANTE's close associate,

JAMES COSTA LONGO, was visiting at che TRAFFICANti residence.

of them conversed

having recently been called as a witness, on November 24,

about TRAFTICANTE's brothes 1967:

TP 120-0 advised that the following individuals had been in

attendance at TRAFFICANTE's birthday dinner, which had been

held at his home, in Tampa, on the night of November 15:

FRAN

¿CIUs and vife;

FRANK

RAGANO

SAM_and,

ELS,

Muse te

JINMY

and Rose

CONGO jee

*DE: ROT SAXON and wife.

TP 120-C added

that on the following day,

sometime

in the evening,

SANTO and Mrs: TRAFFICANTE had left Tampa,

driving to Miami in the green

car and that prior to leaving,

SANTO had indicated he would be in Tampa for Thanksgiving.

-B-

COVER PAGE

N# 45966

DocId: 32290451 Page 4

---

## Page 5

TP 92-1

Informant added that Mes: TRAFFICANTE was next seen in

Airport and picked up SANTO.

Informant remarked that there

was no one at TRAFFICANTE's reSidence for Thanksgiving dinner

except SANTO, Mrs. TRAFFICANTE, MARY JO and her family, and

irs. TRAFFICANTE's father.

informant remarked that TRAFFICANTE

has recently voiced reluctance to driving a car and has stated

that the IBI "tail" drives him crazy and that he is afraid

that he will have an accident of that they will have him

arrested on some traffic charge.

On November 27, 1967, TP 120-C advised that

TRAFFICANTE had departed

Tampa

sometime between 3:00 a.m.,

November 25, and 1:00 p.m., November 26, 1967, presumably

to fly to Miami,

and that on Monday morning, November 27,

1967, TRAFFICANTE personally called the Tampa residence and

apparently spoke with the maid regarding the whereabouts of

Mrs • TRAFFICANTE, ard was told that lirs. TRAFFICANTE waS

enroute to Miami

in the green car.

On November 22, 1957, MM 1209-C advised that GENE

WYERS had recently told

pirpose of ascertaining the identities of those persons who

owed Shylock money to recently killed THOMAS ALTAMURA.

BYERS.

also indicated that JOSEPH INDELICATO had been charged with

the responsibility of finding the noney outstanding

and,

further, was partially blamed for the killing in that

INDELICATO had warned ANTHONY ESPERTI that ALTAMURA intended

to kill ESPERTI.

NO 1457-C-TE has advised in the past that MARCELLO

and TRATFICANTS communicate telephonically; however, this

informant has not been in a position to furnish the exact ce-

tails regarding the communications..

INFORMANTS:

C

COVER PAGE

HW 45966 DocId:32290451 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TP 92-1

Identity

TP T-1 is TP 349-C-TE

TP T-2 is TP 41-C

TP T-3 is TP 287-C

TP T-4 is TP 97-C

TP T-5 is TP 303-FC

TP T-6 is TP 120-c

TP T-7 is PCI

TP T-8 is Sgt. JACK. DE LA

LLANA,

Intelligence Unit

Tampa, Police Department

TP T'-9 is TP 354-FC

TP T-10 is TP 351-C

TP T-11 is TP 350-c

Location

137-1792-5,9,1)

137-142-370,372,574

137-1389-142-

137-350-243, 244, 245

137-1563-29

137-460-248, 251, 253

137-1777-5

Instant report

OTHER 4

137-1802-7

137-1434-30

137-1386-33

LEADS

MIAMI DIVISION

AT MIAMI, FLA.

details as to degree of association between them and TRAFFICANTE

"to de? en

Will interview the following individuals for

and/oz his attorney, FRANK RAGANO,

as all of the individuals

were telephonically contacted from the Hilton Hotel in New.

York City, from room occupied by TRAFFICANIE and RAGANO, during

April 1967:

a..

PAULA RICHARDSON, 912 Northeast 95th Street,

Miami Shores, telephone number 759-4882,

called twice;

COVER PAGE

NW 45966

DocId: 32290451 Page 6

---

