# docid-32290825

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10206-10101

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-478

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/03/1962

1

GAL, REL, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

GLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45679 DocId: 32290825

Page 1

329

---

## Page 2

4-41 (Rev. 3-5-02)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr _

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans.

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy.

• Radio

* Teletype

DEFERRED

4-3-62 5-59 AM RUL

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO

030844

GUS

ALEX, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

CG 6502-0* ADVISED THAT SAM AND MAE TAYLOR, BROTHERA

AND SISTER-IN-LAW OF ALEX, WHO RESIDE IN CASSOPOLIS, MICHAGAN,

ARRIVED IN CHICAGO ON MARCH 30 LAST AND WERE IN ALEX'S

APARTMENT ON THAT DATE. THIS INFORMANT PREVIOUSLY ADVISED

THAT THE TAYLORS WOULD SUPERVISE THE CLEANING DECORATING OF

ALEXIS APARTMENT TO BEGIN ON APRIL 2 INSTANT AND TO LAST UNTIL

APRIL 5 NEXT.

PCI, ADVISED THIS DATE THAT SAM AND MAE TAYLOR

ARE IN TOWN AND HAVE

MADE ALL THE ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE CLEANING

OF ALEX'S APARTMENT. HE SAID THE CLEANING IS BEING DONE BY

THE BUILDING EMPLOYEES AND THAT THERE WILL BE NO PAINTING IN

THE APARTMENT. HE SAID THAT THE TAYLORS PLAN ON BEING IN ALEX'S

APARTMENT UNTIL THE CLEANING IS FINISHED AND THAT SAM INFORMED

HIM THAT HE OR MAE WILL

BE THERE AT ALL TIMES WHILE THE WORK

IS BEING DONE.

STATED THAT HE WOULD ATTEMPT TO SECURE

THE NAMES OF ANY OUTSIDE CONTRACTORS IF THEY WERE ENGAGED

IN THE CLEANING OF THE RUGS AND DRAPERIES OR ANY OTHER PROJECTS

AT THE ALEX APARTMENT. ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL

TENDENCIES.

-3/82478

RECEIVED:

≤ APR 6 1962

7:08 AM

BMP

EX-105.

25 APR 3 1952

OTHER 4

f the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems

NW 45679 DocId: 32290825

Page 2

---

