# docid-32298186

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10220-10462

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2918-77, 78

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 45854 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DOUCE, RICHARD GORDON

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/04/1959

PAGES:

58

SUBJECTS :

SMO, GM, OC, RACK AND SUBV, FGJ, FISUR, FRENCHYS

SEAFOOD RESTAURANT, RCK, MED, P/P, B/F INT,

ARRESTED, BKG, ASSOC, NRO, JRM, SJL, REL, TRA, SUR,

CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, INDEX PAGES 42-45, INC MEMO

v9.1

HH 45854

DocId: 32298186

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PC: 92-228; 92-236

Physical Surveillances

The following Special Agents participated in the

surveillance of Frenchy's Seafood Restaurant, 5700 Penn

Avenue, Pittsburgh:

THOMAS G. FORSYTH III

RICHARD GORDON DOUCE

WALTER E. TAYLOR

The surveillances conducted at the White Horse Inn,

Byrnedale, Pa., were conducted by SA ROBERT I. OLSON on

2/11/59 and 3/12/59.

Record \Checks

PD and Credit Bureau

JEK Act 6 (4)

Confidential

Source

who has furnished valuable information

concerning

the activities of the MANNARINO organization since

the inception of the Top Hoodlum Program, sailed for Aghens,

Greece, on 4/10/59, aboard the SS OLYMPUS from New York, N.Y.

the acknowledged racket boss in Westmoreland County,

18. 9

during the 1920's, was released from the Western State

Penitentiary during the summer of 1952 after being a prisoner

for over 20 years on a conviction formurder. When

racket on a limited scale and even though he was disliked

resulted in two highly successful raids conducted by the

Intelligence Division, Internal Revenue Service, following

dissemination by this office.

stated that he does not intend to return to

the United States and

his criminal history and alien status

-C -

COVER PAGE

HH

45854 DocId: 32298186 Paqe 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-228; 92-236

will preclude his re-entry into the United States through

normal channels.

It will now be necessary for the agents assigned

to the MANNARINO investigation to develop new sources of

Information who are capable of providing the caliber of

Intelligence data previously furnished by

MIKE GEORGE HAZIDAKIS

Confidential Source

on 3/13/59 stated

that after HAZIDAKIS was released from Monteflore Hospital

Ia November, 1958, he was in a very weakened condition and

attempted to recuperate at his home in New Kensington with

great difficulty.

said that after several months

HAZIDAKIS became alarmed over his inability to recover from

the operation and since he was obviously not responding to

treatment, he decided to return to his family in Greece.

said that HAZIDAKIS left for Greece around

probably aboard the ss OLYMPUs, saying that he might

return,to sell his home and settle other business affairs

providing his health improved.

stated that in his opinion, HAZIDAKIS wouLd

undoubtedly take full advantage of his poor physical condition

to remain in Greece permanently because of his long expressed

fear of GABRIEL MANNARINO.

INFORMANIS

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and I symbols were utilized in this report only in

those instances where the identities of

the sources must be

concealed.

PG T-1 is

confidential source,

contacted by SAS RICHARD GORDON DOUCE and

THOMAS G. FORSYTH III

PG I-2 iS NORMA GRILLO,

a Pittsburgh call girl,.

contacted

by SA NORMAN T. THOMPSON (concealed

by request)

#JEK Act 6 (4)

COVER PAGE

NW 45854 DooId: 32298186 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ATF

REGENED BY FSJFK TASK FORCE.

OM

7/16/96 dAb/

DW

FG 92-228; 92-236

I-3 Is Former pa 580-0, contacted by

SA JOHN S. PORCELLA

FO I'-H IS WILLIAM MEREDIT, Special Agent,

Bell Telephone Company of

Fennsylvania,

contacted by SA HAROLD I. STEVENS

H8 I-5 Is PO 585-0 contacted by SA ROBERT A.

VOEGE

PO 1-6 IS JOSEPH MEROLA, Interviewed by

SAS

GEORGE E.

DAVIS, IR., and LEMAN Io

STAFFORD, at the Miami Office

PO F-T IS DR.

LOUIS C. PESSOLANO of Miami

Springs,

Florida, interviewed by sA RICHARD

GORDON DOUCE prior to his appearance before

Federal Grand Jury in Fittsburgh (by

request)

IG I'-8 iS MEI, COLLIER, Investigator, Alcohol

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL/

and Tobacco Tax Unit,

U.S. Treasury Department,

Fittsburgh, Pa., contacted by SA THOMAS fo

P'ORSITH TIT

-I'=g is

former FCI, contacted

SA NORMAN T. THOMPSON

PO I'-10 iS TOMMY HAYES,

salesman for Swift and

Company, contacted by SA DAMON W. PITCHER

PC T-11 iS JAMES MC DOWELL, Alcohol and Tobacco

Tax Unit, Pittsburgh, contacted by SA J. EDWARD

MADVAY

SE T-1 iS MILTON SUGG

Fraud Investigation Unit,

California State Department of Employment,

contacted by SA ROBERT E. OLSON

SE T-2 is SP. 1871-C, contacted by SA RAYMOND M.

ANDRESS

- F-

COVER PAGE

JEK Act 6 (4)

45854 DocId: 32298186 Page 4

---

## Page 5

2JEK Act 6

(4)

PC 92-228: 92-236

SE T-3 18

I former. Per and

private Investigator, contacted by SA ANDRESS

PIE T-12 IS CAMILLE NAFFAH, PCI, contacted by

SA THOMAS CO FORSYT I

PO T-13 IS NELSON DARLING, Manager.

Home Telephone

Ridgeway,

Contacted We SOme DESON

covering Byrnedate,

Pa ob

MM T-1 1S MM 665-PC, contacted by SA ROBERT F. FETZNER

MM T-2 IS MM 656-C, contacted by SAS PAUL. A. CAJIGAS

and ALBERT T. HEATY

FO I-14 IS PO 573-0 contacted by SA JOHN S. PORTELLA

PCI, contacted by

PC T-15 15

SA GENE

STUDEBAKER.

MM I-3 IS EDWARD C. WIILIAMS, PCI, Contacted

DY SA PAUL A. CAJICAS

MM T-4 IS PAULA. CAJIGAS, who contacted the

Shenandoah Branch, U.S. Post Office, Miami, Florida

T-16 Is I. MEAD MC LISTER, PCI, contacted by

SA BRONI S. MACYS

CT T=1

is CI 197-S, contacted by SA ROBERT R. ROCKWELL

BA T=I IS THOMAS M. SIMPSON, Postmaster, Hagerstown,

Mã., contacted by SA ROBERT

I. MC ENROE

BA I-2 is Mrs. ADA K. GUNNELLS, Clerk, POSt Oftice,

Hancock,

Md., contacted by SA MC ENROE

*BA T-3 i5

Postmaster, Cascade,

Mad, contacged by SA MC ENROE

BA I-4 IS WALTER MILLS,

Postmaster, Clear Spring,

Md., contacted by SA MC ENROB

COVER PAGE

NW 45854 DooId: 32298186 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-228; 92-236

AT NEW KENSINGTON, PA. (WESTMORELAND)

du o

Wilt contact Pa 545-0 for information concerning

subjects' legitimate enterprises, criminal activities and

associates.

2.

N111 recontact TOMMY HAYES, salesman for Swilt ane

Company, and obtain additional details regarding the allegation

that the MANNARIND brothers may have an interest in the r

State Automatic Candy Company.

Will prepare a letterhead memo concerning MIKE

GEORQE HAZIDAKIS for dissemination to IRS.

4.

Wilt Interview GEORGE NADER, proprietor of Nader's

Market, 1193 - 3rd Avenue, to determine if possible the

method he used in providing a check cashing service for the

Triangle Billiards Gambling Casino.

5.

Will interview AGNES KNOX,

waitress at Pecky

Abraham's Bar, and reported former girlfriend of GABRIEL

MANNARIND, for any information of value she can furnish concerning

his activities.

6.

Will interview ANDREW DATRES, 528 Pershing Drive,

night manager of Andy's Restaurant, for information he may

have

picked up while listening to the conversation of MANNARINO

organization members who frequent the restaurant.

Will interview NIP VURDEN, alleged pimp, who is said

to New Kensington PD.

8.

Will interview TOM GALLIAN, operator of the Garibaldi

club, to determine his connections with the

MANNARINO organization

and possible pay-off's to New Kensington PD.

9.

Will interview JAMES POWERS, 400 Robinson Street,

Pitcairn, Pa., an employee of the Electric Department, Pitcairn,

who,

according to Chief of Police, O'Hara Twp., can furnish

exact directions to the MANNARINO hunting lodge.

- I=

COVER PAGE

NW 45854 DooId: 32298186 Paqe 6

---

## Page 7

PC 92-228: 92-236

DETAIES:

A. FERSONAL EISTORY AND BACKGROUND

SAMUEL MANNARINO

VICTOR E. CARDUCET,

son-In-Law

Reverend NICOLA FUSCO,

fastor,

St. Feter's Roman

Catholie Church; New Kensington,

Pa•s 01 March 25, 1959;

advised

that he performed the marriage ai VICTOR E. CARLUCCI

and

• MINNIE ANTIA MANNARINO on April 16, 1945.

Father FUSCO stated that at the time of the marriage

CARLUCCI Lived with his,

, parents,

VINCENE CARLICCE and ROSE

CARLOCOT

(nee MARPLEl) at 2014 Ridge Avenue, Arnold.

Pa., and

the bride

Lived with her parents, SAMUEL MANNARINO and ROSE

MANNARINO (nee CARINO) at 1001 Manor Road, New Kensington.

6. ASSOCLATES

SAMUED and GABRIEL

MA NAARENO

'DANIEL HANNA

Ps I-1s who las furnished reliable information In

the fast,

on

February

26, 1959.

said DANIEL HANNA tOld him

that SAMUEL MANNARINO assured him he would not be prosecuted

In the case involving theft of weapons from the ohio National

Guard Armory, Canton, 0hi0.

Implied

Po I-1 stated that MANNARINO

! to HANNA that arrangements had been made or would

be made to have the case"fixed"but that if for some

unforeseen reasons HANNA was convicted, he would be paid for

every day he spent in prison.

ANDY MANG INT

• The

"Pittsburgh sun telegrapn,

carried a

feature

" March 7, 1959, issues

story concerning a raid by the Pittsburgh

Police Department Racket Squad led by Acting Lieutenant JOHN

JAMES on the Sparton-American Club, 715 West Diamond Street,,

at 2:00 AM, March 7, 1959.

NW 45854 DooId: 32298186 Paqe 7

---

## Page 8

• PG 92-228; 92-236

HIghland 1-1615, listed to RENEE LEVITT,

5826 - 5th Avenue,

Pitusburgh 22, Pa.

Number changed to

CHurchill 2-2127 (unlisted) 1696 Monongahela

Avenue, Pittsburgh 18, Pa.

olympia 3-3419

(unlisted) ANNA LOHA,

340 Koendler Road, Apartment To

Leland Park

TOM TANNAS,

FBI #356490A

On March 24, 1959, United States Distract Judge

HERBERT P. SORG,

United States District Court, Western DIStrICt

Pennsylvania,

Pittsburgh, directed an order of acquittal

in the TANNAS CaSe

basis that the united states Government

had failed to present

sufficient evidence from which a jury could

Infer, beyond a reasonable doubt, that TANNAS wilfully intended

to defraud the United States in connection with his application

for loan through the SBA.

Judge sonG pointed out in his

written opinion that he

had been in error in not directing

verdict of acquittal when the defense motion was made at the

conclusion of the government's case in United States District

Court.

ALI RINALDO, aka.I "Chips"

PG T-5, who has furnished reliable information in

the past, was contacted on January 27, 1959 and again on

February

20, 1959, at her residence,

at which time she advised

that she was present at the MANNARINO gambling establishment.

at New Kensington during the late evening hours of November 4,

1958. FC T-5 advised that on that afternoon a plane load of

rifles stolen from the Ohio National Guard Armory at Canton,

Ohio, was forced down at Morgantown, W.Va., and that the MANNARINO

brothers had already been mentioned as having had something to

do with the transportation of these and other weapons to Cuban.

rebels., Fu I-5 recalled that the bar was not too busy that night,

NW 45854 DooId: 32298186 Page 8

---

## Page 9

. PO 92-228; 92-236

but that the usual large number of patrons were filtering

into the gambling rooms. Po I-5 said she spoke briefly to

JOHN FONTANA, a permanent member of the MANNARINO organization,

and a close associate of both MIKE GENOVESE and JOHN LA ROCCA.

IG T-5 recalled

that FONTANA told her that the place would be

closing earty and

when she asked him what was wrong, he shrugged

his shoulders and said, "Oh, just a few little problems that

we can handle."

PG T-5 said FONTANA

definitely had referred

to the gun-running because AL "CHIPS" RINAIDO, a

croupier

and dealer in the MANNARINO gambling setaup.. for many years

and who had taken her to the gambling establishment, walked

out of the gambling rooms shortly after 1:00 AM and

advised

because of some. trouble

"that will be in the newspapers" the

place was closing early.

PO I-5 on April 7, 1959, stated that RINALDO has a

room in a house directly across the street from the Pepsi Cola

Bottling plant In the 5700 block of Centre Avenue, Pitsburgh,

telephone number EM 2-2298.

D. CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES

SAMUEL and GABRIEL MANNARINO

Indictments Returned By Federal Grand Jury, Pittsburgh

A Federal Grand Jury sitting at Pittsburgh, Pa.,

on

, March 20, 1959, returned a seven count indictment charging

STUART SUTOR and the following five members of the MANNARINO

organization with violations of IISP, IGP and CONSPIRACY, In

connection with the theft of weapons

from the National Guard

Armory, Canton,

Ohio, and subsequent interstate transportaton

by twin engine beechcraft for

revolutionary forces in Cuba:

NORMAN, ROTHMAN, FBI #152585B

JOSEPH MEROLA, FBI #4989299

VICTOR CARLUCCI (sonan-law of SAMUEL MANNARINO)

DANIEL. HANNA

JOSEPH GIORDANO, FBI #3661902

NW 45854 DooId: 32298186 Page 9

---

