# docid-32332746

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 411 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90104-10044

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2940-185

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/15/1961

9

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

19.1

DocId: 32332746

14

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (16-486 2107 Note.

DATE: 11-14-2017

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

(4-4-50)

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2940)

DATE: 6/15/61

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-226-Sub 2) JUN E

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

AL

L INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIEU * 241,326

DATE 5/8/86

RE: Title SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA; aka.

Character of Case

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

Pittsburgh

Symbol Number

PC 622-C*Y DONF. INFT.

Type of Surveillance:

(Technical or

Microphone)

Microphone (MUTT

PA

Installation)

1.

Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA (Owner, North Star Cement Block Co.,

I2 McCandless Avenue, PIttsburgh, Pa.)

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

The Pittsburgh Office of the North Star Cement Block Co.,

12 McCandless Avenue, PIttsburgh, Pa.

JUN 26 1961

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Pittsburgh FBI Office, 450 Union Trust Building, Fifth

Avenue and Grant Street, PIttsburgh, Pa.

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Initial authorization: 1/26/61

Installation: 1/30/61 (actually activated on 2/7/61)

5. Previous and other installations on the same subject (with

dates and places): "

No other installations

6.

(2)

If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

(There is no tesur involved in this

(Installation)

a. Is a trunk line utilized?

"REG- 72

b. Is the surveillance on a fitchboard?'

92-2940185

... Is the surveillance on a publio coin operated telephones a sa

wreau (RM)

•f!

•ЕЛЕАГЕДСТ! РЕС

DocId: 32332746 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

d. Is surveillance on à private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One MUTT unit is installed and concealed in the floor space

between subject's business office and lavatory.

8.

Is the installation part of a tel-mike?

If so, give symbol of other

side

of the combination:

Not part of a tel-mike.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific

value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

Consult insert pages.

All Information was utilized for

Intelligence purposes and appropriate dissemination was made

where pertinent.

10. Could above information have

been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

NO

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Two live Informants cover LA ROCCA but there are no live

informants furnishing information relating to the North Star

Cement Block Company.

12. Has security factor changed since

installation?

No change

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

No requests made

14.

Costs of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises: None (costs included in

office rental)

b.

Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

One misur (PG 148-S*, installed on 4/16/57)

-2-

DocId: 32332746 Page 3

---

