# docid-32325886

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90038-10075

RECORD SERIES: HQ

- AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 92-3683-22

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/17/1960

7

JAMES HENRY DOLAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32325886

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 92-150

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

The long investigative period of this report has

been noted by the Dallas office.

It should be noted this

matter has been kept in a current status by means of the above

referenced interoffice communications.

It was decided by Dallas

that final prosecutive disposition of CARTER in Phoenix be

ascertained prior to the submission of a report.

SAMUEL WELLS HOOVER and BIAGGIO ANGELICA, mentioned

in this report, are top hoodlums of the Houston Office. DANNY

ALLEN DAVIS, mentioned in this report, is a top hoodlum presently

under investigation by the Dallas Office.

HARRY RAYMOND POPE,

mentioned in this report, was formerly listed as one of the

Bureau's Ten Most Wanted

Fugitives and was a top hoodlum of the

Dallas Office.

DL T-2 is DL-95-C. Any information furnished by

DL T-2 should be handled very discreetly.

- B*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32325886

Page 2

---

