# docid-32340941

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44

USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10221-10334

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-1423-20

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

12/03/1958

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32340941 Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

PEDIC

Nasca

Legat, Havana

December 15, 1958

REd rector, TRI (2-2423) -2,0

IRVING DAVIDSON

REGISTRATION ACT

ALL INFORMATION CONTAILED

NEMEIS IS UNCLASEIIED

EXCEFT WASKE SHOWE

DINEROISS

Reurlet 11/7/58 with

enclosures captioned

Cuban Political Activities" and Buletito AÁG, Internal

Security Division, with enclosure, in captioned matter

dated 11/25/58, a copy of which was furnished you.

cohen referred to in your 11/7/58 letterS)

is identical with tzhak Cohen, Director,

Government of

Israel, ministry of Defense, Division of supplies, 250 West

sto treet, to tore rage or his to my furish this)

information to Colonel Faget

information.

is a copy

information should not be furnished Faget in order to

protect our informant and since the information developed

concerning Cohen indicated he was loperating within the

scope of his duties and since no information was developed

to indicate he is engaged in any actruities of an intelligence

nature (E)

CLASSIFIED BY 5618-5UA /SR

Enclosure

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X1

Declassity on:

JFK)

ГРК

1 - Foreign Ilatoon Unit loute triguen

or review

9 = DE0 10

COMM - FBI

Colonel Faget,

a Havana source, requested any

identifiable information re l. conenlwho has had some dealings

with the subject. The subjectihas been given a letter of

credit by the Cuban Government.

L Cohen is id

tahak Cohen. A sensitive informant (Ne 14045/Stical wit

Tols on

Boardinan'

Belmont

Mohr

Wease -

Pars ons,

Rosen -

Tamm

Trotter

N.C. Sullivan -

Tele. Room

follomari -

failed

MAIL ROOM LE

was engaged in intelligence

TELETY

DocId:32340941

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE& (Hev- 1442907

FBI

Date: 12/3/58

Transmit the following in

(Typé in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

ALL IMSOMTAZOR TOTE

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (

FROM: SAC, NEW YORK (97-1530)

E1G:

OTAGANISE

2-3-98

I. IRVING DAVIDSON CLASSIFIEDBY 568 5LDKSP

REGISTRATION ACT

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X-1, MA94. SP8 mAC MSR

(JFK)

(JFK)

ReBulet to Assistant Attorney General, Internal

Security Division, dated 11/25/58, with note for SACS

N.Y. and WFO.

The Bureau's attention 1s directed toXBufile

n, the case entitled, ("ITZHAK COHEN

" Bureat+s attention is

specifically directed to the WFO report of SA GERARE

C. CARROLL, dated July 21, 1958, and to letterhead memorandum

dated May 16, 1950, at N.Y., N.Y.

Report of SA CARROLL sets

out information concerning contacts between [COHEN Jand DAVIDSON,(5)

reportedly a registered agent for the government of Nicaragua.

Since it would appear that sufficient information

suitable for dissemination concerning COHEN is available in 5

the 2 communications listed above, no Turther action 1s being

taken by this office.

FOSTER

3-Bureau (RM)

I-Washington Field (105-26269) (Info) (RM)

I-New York (97-1530)

JJM: rmv

(6)

11-5794

Classific

Declassity o

2-1423-2 ging

1958

CAD

UNRECORDED

Spy FILED

7,

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32340941

Page 3

---

