# docid-32324047

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90024-10071

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-1209

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/12/1963

SAM GIANCANA

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

TT

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32324047 Page 1

377

---

## Page 2

FLUERAI

"EXULOF INVESTIGATION

U. S.

PARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS: SECTION

CEP 1 2 1963

TELETYPE.

Comet 21502n

ary

Mir. Tolsor

Mr.

M:

Mis

iMs:

iVi:

Wir.

Mr. Sultivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter..

Tale. Rocm.

Miss Holmen.

Miss Goere

DEFERRED

9-12-63

8-56

PM

ADT

TO DIRECTOR, EDI

192-3171/

9-

FROM SAC,

CHICAGO

192-3491

SAMUEL MO GIANCANA, AKA, ARO ANTI-RACKETEERING

• PCIS

ADVISED THAT DISSENTION

PREVELANT AMONG MCGUIRE SISTERS

BECAUSE OF ATTENTIONS

OF PHYLLIS MCGUIRE UPON GIANCANA. DOROTHY MCQUIRE HAS

ADVISED SISTER

THAT SHE IS NOT wELCOME ANy lONGeR AT

DOROTHY-S HOME

ÄS LONG AS SHE IS IN COMPANY OF

SUBJECT.

INFORMANT FURTHER ADVISED THAT SISTERS

HAVE ADVISED PHYLLIS THAT THEY WILL NO LONGER SING AS TRIO

IF PHYLLIS CONTINUES ASSOCIATION VITH GIANCANA. NO INDICATION AT THIS TIME

TO INTENTIONS OF PHYLLIS IN THIS REGARD. U

IT IS PORTED OUT YOUCH THe JUSTLY AFTER THIS ULTIMATUM

PRESENTED TO PHYLLIS IN ETO LAUDERDALE, FLA, GIANCAN 3I71=120%

DEPARTED, OSTENSIBLY FOR CHICAGO. W14

GIANEANA HAS NOT RETURNED TO CHICAGO, AREA ASSE REP, 18%O dES

OF THIS DATE. UPEE i3

So to sa

END AND ACK PLS

ALL IRFOSIMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLAS

WA 8.

9-58 POOK FBIWA LLD

DATE 4/23

Page 2

OTHER 4

---

