# docid-32293739

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10212-10015

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-9-12-443

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/19/1963

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

CIP, ACT, PROSTITUTION, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32293739

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107

Hote). DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 94-55A-Sub

Lt. DYSON advised PD investigation has revealed

"patients"

seeking treatment at the location have also been

sent to DI. EARL HOLMAN, a Dallas osteopath with offices in

the Snyder Plaza.

On 8/16/63, Judge JIM MC CARTHY, 116th District Court,

Dallas County, Texas, granted a temporary restraining order

prohibiting the Avalon Bath Parlor from opening for operation

until a hearing can be held on a permanent injunction to close

the place as

a business. On /9/63, the license was revoked

at this location for a number of law violations in recent years.

This license revocation was appealed by the owner and has been

operating while on appeal until a hearing on 8/26/63, at which

time a final decision will be made.

A petition has asked that

a permanent injunction be issuedagainst the operation at this

location, naming EVELYN LOUISE DE WITT and A. J. PATTERSON aS

defendants and operators of this firm.

Re: GIIF • DALLAS

(DI 94-47)

DL-121-C has advised one JOE WILLIAMS is owner of the

Waldo Beer Lounge, 2910 North Fitzhugh, Dallas. He formerly

worked at the Holiday Inn Central as a

bellboy and was fired.

A barmaid employed at Waldo Beer Lounge, one NITA RILEY, waS

formerly employed by the City of Dallas

in one of the corporation

courts.

On 7/31/63, according to informant, CHARLES MC KELNERY,

and Scotty, who is employed as assistant bell captain at the

Cabana Motel, Dallas, was at the Waldo Beer Tavern and

waS

contacted by an unknown man who was driving a 1957 Ford or

according to source, was formerly employed at

the Statler-Hilton

Hotel, Dallas, and reportedly was fired there because of his

The informant further advised that one DOTTIE

is frequently seen at the Waldo Beer Tavern and she is living

as common-law wife with one "LEO" who is a bellman at the Holiday

Inn Central Motel.

Informant stated LEO checks DOTTIE in at the

Dallasite Motel next door to the Holiday Inn Central and later

sends

her prostitution dates from the Holiday Inn Central.

4

DocId: 32293739 Page 2

---

