# docid-32334498

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90116-10204

RECORD SERIES :

MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-4921-164

Released under the John

f. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased: NW 53074 Date:

05-30-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/27/1965

• PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW;

Redact

08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: FD-306

v9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32334498

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

Gover Sheet for

Infoznant Report or Material

PD- 305 (3-21-58)

Rec'd from (name or symbol #)

Received by

SA RICHARD B.

10/27/65

PSI PETER ANTHONY VETCHER

KELLOGG

deLivery

check appropriate blocks)

By telephone

By mail

Orally

Recording device

Written by informant

Wi

12.10

turnished and reduced to

Date of Report

ting

Agent

11/3/65

2259

Dictated

Transeribed by SA KELLOGG 11/3/65

Austenticated by Informant 11/3/65

Intet description of activity or

acetial Material received from

Minutemen. acknoxledaing VETCHERIs

application. for membership.and

material received in connection with

first five phases of the training

Remarks:

Date(s) of Activity

10/25,26/65

File where original is

Located if not attached

NY 134-1082 Sub A-2

Material received by PSI, mentioned in attached, is being

maintained in Sub section 134-1082

2 - Miami

RBK/rbk

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 14/8+ BY SPSBTg

24,026

(1-134-1082)

(1-105-4921) (Minutemen)

SCARCHED

SERIALIZED

NOVA

1965

HH 53074 DocId: 32334498 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED 211.326

DATE 114

November 3, 1965

On 10/25/65 Poter Anthony Vetcher, 1825 Meadow Court.

Plorida, received a lotter postmarked in Brunswick.

Missouri, on 10/22/65. It contained a 3 page letter to "Dear Pello

Patriot®

signed by Robert B. DePugh as National Coordinator for

Minutemen. The letter acknowledge receipt of Vetcher's application

for membership in Minutenen and assigned Identification Number

A-60371 to Yetcher to be used by him in the future. The letter

explained that an applicant for membership must pass certian training

and testing periods to rise through the degrees of membership in

Minutemen. It pointed that monthly dues must be paid and each phase

of training costs a small amount to defray expenses. The letter

pointed out that the applicant would be a provisional member until

he passes the five basic training courses. He will then become a

Junior Member and be assigned to a band or given an organizational

assignment. He then must complete a training program in a specialty

of some sort. Then following a written examination and a vote of

fellow band members he can become a full member and can follow that

with leadership courses•

On 10/26/65 Veteher received a package postmarked in

chillicothe, Missourt, on an unknown date, bearing return address of

50x -1, Independence, Aissourt. This package contained the rollowing

items:

1. *General Instructions on the Correspondence Training

Program" which indicated the program was divided into 5 phases. Phase

I was described as goneral aspects of underground warfare plus

programs of the organization. Phase 2 deals with intelligence work.

Phase 3 deals with security. Phase 4 deals with propoganda and

psychological warfare and phase 5 with the theory and practice of

recruiting an underground force. These instructions pointed out that

each phase includes outside reading, work projects and a test to be

returned for grading. On completion of that program the member will

be qualified for special training. The instructions noted that phase

was enclosed and was "Spy In The U.S.w by Pawel Monat. Also included

was the book "Spymaster" by Ladislas Parago,portions of which were

to be reguired reading in the various phases of training.

2. Phase l of the training program dealing with the

gathering of intelligence by observation and research and analysis

and by espionage; with the keeping secure of secret information

concerning Minutemen, its membership and the like; with the basie

principles of an underground movement, and with propoganda. The

project outlined for this phase was the briefing of two books on

intelligence and espionage. Also required in this phase was the

setting up o1 a mall drop by the traznee and the choice or a

fictitious name to be used in subscribing to "left-wing literature".

NN 53074 DoeId: 32334498

Page

---

