# docid-32307565

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System:

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10292-10268

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-514

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MD

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/04/1961

7

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/11/1997

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32307565

443

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 No)

DATE: I1-14-2017

_ OPTIONAL FORNANO. 10

501,7-104

GNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

..-ö..

Memorandum

TO

:

Director, FBI

DATE:

FROM,

Legal Attaché, Madrid (92-7) (RUC)

SIDE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

12 O/A8SIPICATION

ACTION

COẶr IRONTIAT

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL GIANCANA

ANTI-RACKETBRING / U

quis

Attached are Y copies of a letterhead memorandum

containing pertinent information regarding subject's

activities in Madrid as furnished by

the Directorate

General of security. * (4)

An information copy of

this communication is

being designated for the Chicago

residence in that area. U

one say of subjects

RUC

4 - Bureau (Enc.

(1 - Liaison

ection

1 - Chicago!

1 - Madrid

LPK :HD

(5)

HAG

APPRO

AND 1

ADVI27

DATE

BY

CLASS.

REASON-FCIN

II,

DATE OF •RE

RIS

ace lettind memo!

Sergek

of

chicag

for info

lee confound. in 154, 99092

125

92-3122-514

AND FIND ORVIGES

ROUTING

ADVISE Ry

SDIP (S)

DATE

12 DEC 7_1961

CONPEDENTTAS

CINCIES

CRIS

ING

EXEMPT FROM GDS

DATE OF DECIMSSLAICE

TON INDEFINITEN

7 8 DEC 27 1961

DocId: 32307565 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Hele

"DAT

under

the

11-14-2017

Kennet

149

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

SIDE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

WASHINGTON:

CLASSIFICATION

ACt PON

Decemben 4, 1961

ON

CLASS.

Re:

SAMUEL GIANCANA

REASON FC

DATE OF

On November 30, 19615

Mr. LUIS POZO GONZALEZ

the Directorate General of Security

in Madrid:

November 24, 1961

At 6 P.M.

subject arrived at the Ritz Hotel, coming

from Rome, Italy.

Information obtained from his passport

furnished hotel authorities reflected he was born June 15s

1900g at Chicago,:

Illinois.

THe was bearer of passport:

#B446159 issued at Washington, D.C.p on August 0.1901

Subject was accompanied by PHYLLIS JEAN MCGUIRE,

born February 14. 1931 at Middletown, U.s. She listed hef 01043d

profession as hostess, with residence. at 441 2-51th street

BeRmude

New York, New York. She was bearer of passport #1487230 issued

at Washington, D.C. on April 0, 1959. Her passport reflected:

that in the event of accident, her parents, Mr. and Mrs. MCGUIRE, T

115 South Main Street, Maniaborgh, Ohio, should be notified

Subject and Miss MCGUIRE occupied contiguous rooms,

#320 and #321,

which had no connectinggdoor

Their reservations

were made through the Grand Hotel in Rome on November 20, 1961.

2: 90

At 6:30 P.M. MISS MCGUIRE had a telephonis convers

tion with one Mr. JONES at New York City telephone MU-86596

(4)

Upon arriving at the Ritz Hotel the subject and

MiSs MCGUIRE requested information regarding available airline

transportation from Madrid to the Bermuda Islands.

They were.

advised that the next direct flight

Guest Airiines at. 1i A.M. on 12-2-6

form da was ya tho

NiT)

ANy.

Excompt

Date or Dech

This document contains neither

tee mendaion hors nishen 9/30/18.00

9/45/28

COPIES DESTROYED

926 29 MAY

1972?

ocId: 32307565

Páde

the FBI. Itis the property of

the FBL and is loaned to: your agencyst

it and its contents are not to benedit ou ne

distributed outside, your agency:

FOSURA 120 - 3171-514

---

## Page 4

149:

From their time of arrival at the Ritz Hotel the

subject and Miss MCGUIRE remained in their respective rooms

until approximately 10:30 P.M. at which time they left the

hotel to have dinner at the Buffet Italiano located on

Carrera de San Jeronimo.

The bill was paid in

Spanish currency

They returned to their hotel at 12:30 P.M.G

November 25, 1961

unt11 6:30 P.M33

Subjectand Mics McGUIRE, remained in their hotel

at which time they rented a tourist limousine!

a black Dodge with license plate, m-83229, servicing the Ritze

At 9P.M. MIsS MCGUIRE endeavored to telephone storax

MrO KANE at New York City telephone. #R1-96445.

MISS MCGUIRE

was advised that Mr. KANE was out of the city and would not

gotura until Monday, at which time she cancelled the calle(4)

At: 10:25 P.Ma subject and Miss MCGUiRE left

hotel in the above described vehicles traveling to the Horcher

Restaurant located at Alfonso XII, #65%

where they ate and

immediately thereafter returned to, the hotel and retired to

their, respective.rooms at 1:30 ACM.

The bill for the restaurant

and the cost of the transportation was paid in Spanish currency,

which was probably purchased in Rome, Italy, prior to their

departure for Spain Au

November 26, 41961

carlyithis date subject and Miss McGuIns obtained

reservations from the iberia Airlines for its direct flight

of November 28, 1961, to San Juan, Puerto Rico. At this time

reservations were, made for the caribe Hilton Hotel in san Juany 4)

The subjectrand Miss NCGUIRE remained at the hotel

until P P.M. at which time they took a taxi to the Commodore

Restaurant located at Plaza de la Republica Argentina. This

b111 was likewise paid in Spanish currency

Withey Freturned to

the hotel at 12:30 A.M.

November 27, 1961

Subject and Miss McGUIRE Stayed at the hotel until

10 P.M,lat which time they wont to dine at the Jocket, Restaurant,

DocIa 32302065 Mpare

92-3/71-514

---

## Page 5

Let

the Tohn

1r-1-2017

SIT

399731442

located at Calle Amador de los

RIOS

the bilwas paid in

Spanish money, and, they returned

to the hotel at 12:40 A.M.04

November 28, 1961

At. 8 A.M.

subject, and Miss MCGUIRE left the Ritz

Hotel for the Madrid airport and departed aboard Iberia

flight #983 for, San Juan,

Puerto Rico

There was a departure

delay of 2 1/2 hours:0L6

Subject paid for his hotel: bill with Spanish money

while Miss MCGUIRE paid her biit with a travelers check. it

is noted that the subject and Miss MCGUIRE had preyiously.

purchased round-trip tickets to the United States and were to

return via london, England.

In view of the change in itinerary,

there was an additional charge for their tickets.

MiSS MCGUIRE

paid the ditterence with a travelers check, whereas

the

subject paid with Spanish currency

923109-5901

---

## Page 6

Réleased under the Tohn F. Kennedy Grassination Records Collestion Act

PF. 1992: 144 USC 2107

Motel & DATD:/10-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTO

December

SEE AVERSE:

SIDS SOR

SS, 0: 0r

21961

DECLASS FIND BY SPIDE

ON 2/000 85

Cappeal 9-1125

Re :

SAMUEL GIANCANA

1912113

On November 30, 1961,

Mro

LUIS POZO GONZALEZ Of

the Directorate General o security base

Madrid,

Spain,

furnished the folloing summary of subjects known activities

in Madrid:

November 24, 1961

At 6P.M.

subject arrived

from Rone,

Italy

at the ritz hotel coming

Information obtained fron his passport

furnished hotel authorities reflected he vas born June 15,

1900g at Chicago, Illinois.

He was bearer of passport

#3446159 issued at Washington, D.C., on August 8, 1961. Ku)

Subject was accompanied by PHYLLIS JEAN MCGUIRE;

born February 14, 1931, at Middletown, U.S. She listed her

profession as hostess, with residence at 441 1. 57th Street,

New York, New York.

She was bearer of passport #1487230 issued

at Washington, D.C.,

on Apxil 8, 1959 Her passport reflected

that in the event of accident, her parents Mr.

and Nrs. MCGUIRE,

115 South Main Street, Maunborgh, Ohio, should be notified. fy)

Subject and Miss McGUIRE occupied contiguous roons.

#320 and #321, which had no connecting door.

their reservations

were made through the Grand Hotel in Home on November 20, 19612(4)

it 6:30 P.M. Miss McGUIRE bad a, telephonic conversa:

tion with one Mr. JONES at New York City telephone MU-865906 W

Upon arriving at the Ritz Hotel the subject and

Miss VCGUIRE requested information regarding available airline

transportation from Madrid to the Bermuda Islands. They were

advised that' the next direct, flight to Bermuda was via" the

Guest Airlines at 12 A.M. on 12-2-614

This document contains neither

reccmmendations nor conclusions of

the Fbl. It is the property. of

the FiBi and is loaned to your ageney;

it and its contents are not to be:

distributed outside your agency,

HON.

FIDE

ITAL

92-3070-504

DOCId: 32307565

Page,

---

