# docid-32263510

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/20/20

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10110-10105

RECORD SERIES :

SECURITY CLASSIFIED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 131-JFK

Released under the John

Assassination Records

collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54653 Date:

Document Information 10-23-2017

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DATE: 08/30/1978

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

FBI, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/16/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 4.

v9.1

NH 54653

DocId: 32263510

Page

---

## Page 2

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE •

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

01142'6

August 30, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

March 11, 1910, requesting access to material in files of the

FBI pertinent to the John F. Kennedy assassination investi-

gation. Additionally, reference 1s made to FBI letter to the

Assistant Attorney General dated April 14, 1978. (U)

On August 16, 1978, Miss Jacqueline Hess, HSCA,

requested that the following be provided as a written response

to the enumerated items set forth in the request of March 17,

1978. (U)

On November 23, 1963, the FBI furnished a letterhead

memorandum to Secret Service Headquarters, Washington, D. C.,

in order to provide Secret Service with the results of our

preliminary investigation into the assassination of John F.

Kennedy as well as

pertinent background Information regarding

Lee Harvey Oswald. (U)

The paragraph appearing on Pages. 4 and 5 of the

letterhead memorandum, which is quoted in your request of

March 17, 1978, contains some incorrect Information regarding

a tape recording of

himself as Lee Oswald. (9 (U)

the voice of an individual who identified

DECLASSIFIED BYS66S SEDM

ON

3/u4

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS EUSUMENT. 3697 GMB

REVIEWED BY FBUJFK TASK PORCE

3/6/97 do

RELEASE IN FULL

PELEASE IN PART

IT TOTAL DEANAL

CLASSIFIED BY *F

8013

EXEMPT FROMEDS CATEGORY

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INOGFINITE

SOLUTION SOM

54653

DocId: 32263510 Page 2

---

## Page 3

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Retrievable information contained in files of the

FBI indicates that this Bureau received information derived

from transcripts of tape recordings furnished by another

government agency which conducts intelligence type investi-

gations.

The transcripts indicated that on September 28,

1963, and October 1, 1963, the voice of an individual

identifying himself

as Lee Oswald was recorded by the other

government agency conducting intelligence type investigations.

Additionally, this

government agency provided the FBI with

photographs of an individual who appeared to be an American;

these photographs being taken by said agency on October 1,

1963:1

It is noted that the FBI never received the actual

tape recordings from which the transcripts were derived, as

the tapes were erased by the other government agency providing

the transcripts. (MCM

In response to Question 1 of referenced request,

retrievable information indicates that the photographs of

the

individual who appeared to be an American were transported to

the FBI Division, Dallas, Texas, on November 23, 1963, by

SA Eldon D. Rudd

(retired). Subsequently, on November 23,

1963, one photograph of this unknown individual was exhibited

to Marguerite Oswald, at Dallas, Texas, by SA Bardwell D.

Odum (retired) in an attempt to determine if the individual

was known to Mrs. Oswald as an associate of her son Lee Harvey

Oswald.

Mrs. Oswald could not identify the photograph as

anyone she knew. X'(M

It is specifically noted that a copy of the photo-

graph exhibited to Marguerite Oswald was furnished to the

Warren Commission on February 11, 1964. Additionally, on

July 16, 1964, by letter addressed to the Honorable J. Lee

Rankin,

the Warren Commission was furnished with affidavits

regarding the source of the photographs and displaying of

same to Mrs. Oswald. (U)

In view of the fact that no tape recordings were

ever provided to the FBI, Questions 2 and 3 of referenced request

are moot and therefore are not being responded to. (U)

REL

- 2 -

HH 54653 DooId:32263510 Page 3

---

