# docid-32330686

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90091-10117

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 166-636-43

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection set of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 45863 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/03/1969

PAGES:

39

SUBJECTS :

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

V9.1

HH 45863

DocId: 32330686

Page 1

---

## Page 2

i..

DL 166-102

records, Lubbock, Texas, on 7/17/69, was furnished by ROBERT

L. METTS, Security Supervisor.

McKinney, Texas.

furnished information to SA BURL P. MIDDENDORF on 6/13/69.

Information furnished from the Southern Bell Tele-

phone Company at Atlanta, Georgia, to IC MARION W. DAVIS on

6/17/69, was made availabde by MRS: BETTY HAYES:

On 7/17/69, DL 146-C advised SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT

that RIDE MATTHEWS had recently had an operation

removing

a bad eye and having an artifical eye to replace it.

reported that MATTHEWS had been frequently seen at Lake Dallas

in the company of GARLAND POLLARD and GLEN BECKER.

POLLARD

is a well known bookie in the Dallas area.

MATTHEWS has

Lake Dallas.

MATTHEWS claims that CHARMAYNE VOURAS allegedly has put out

a contract on him and has offered someone $25,000 to kill

him.

DL 275-C-TE advised SA WILLIAM B. HOLLOMAN on

7/10/69, that MATTHEWS and SOPHIE GEBRON are still booking

He stated that MATTHEWS is

because of COOK's association with CHARMAYNE VOURAS.

in the past had been used by MATTHEWs and GEORGE MCGANN aS

a muscle man.

Informant stated that MATTHEWS has tried to

warn COOK that VOURAS is dangerous but even though he has

learned that she carries a gun in her purse he is still

living with her.

CI claimed that MATTHEWS recently told

him that CHARMAYNE VOURAS had been shot by him accidently

when he went to her residence after meeting her at a club.

He claimed that she pulled a gun on him and told him that

she had heard that he had a contract to kill her. MATTHEWS

allegedly struggled with VOURAS for the gun and it accidently

went off, wounding her. He then took her to a local hospital

- B-

COVER PAGE

166-636-43

NW 45863 DooId: 32330686 Page 2

---

