# docid-32325186

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD. NUMBER:

124-90035-10083

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 122-2424-107

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: DEPT. OF JUSTICE

FROM:

DOJ/CRIM

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 12/11/1959

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

BARNEY BAKER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

06/04/1998

Exempt

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

MEMO, REFERRED TO DOJ

DocId: 32325186

Page 1

---

## Page 2

/Reteased under the John' F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

.. STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNA

Felmont

MeLoach

Mr. McGuire.

Mr. Mohr

TO : Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation

DATE: December

120 Mt.

Mopersons

Rosen

Mr. Tamm.

: Malcolm R. Wilkey, Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

MRW: AMP: aa

51-16-580

Mr.

Trotter

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman

SUBJECT: Edward

Weinheimer - Perjury

Miss Gandy

1. In the statement to the Bureau on September 28, 1959,

Mrs. Madeline Perlaky apparently did not recall typing three

envelopes on one occasion to Weinheimer at Des Moines, in 1957. M"

Since these letters were mailed in August, it is

possible that

Mrs. Perlaky may have been on vacation at the time the envelopes

were prepared; therefore, one of the other girls in the office

tion, it is known that the following girls were

employed at

Exhibitors Service during August and September of 1957:

(a) Mrs. Joann Jurist, 812 Park Avenue, Plainfield,

New Jersey.

She terminated her employment in about

February 1958. It has been reported that she may visit

her mother on December 23, 1959 to spend the Christmas

holidays.

Her mother's name is Mrs. Taravella and she

resides at 522 Woodward Avenue, McKees Rocks, Pennsylvania.

(b) Mildred Baer, who is still employed by Exhibitors

Service.

(c) Mrs. Judy Powers, 729 Broadway, Mckees Rocks,

Pennsylvania.

She left Exhibitors Service about

February 1958.

Atta

It is requested that the aforementioned individuals be inter-

viewed to ascertain whether any of them can provide any pertinent

information concerning the preparation and mailing of the threes:

• envelopes to Weinheimer in Des Moines, and the two envelopes to.›

Detroit in 1957. If any of the foregoing individuals recall press

paring such envelopes, it is suggested that they be interrogated.

regarding any knowledge or information they may have as to whether

currency was placed in the envelopes by Callahan. (It is understood

that the girls occupied an office adjacent to Callahan's and may

have been in a position, because of some window arrangement

envelopes).

DEC 11 1959

DocId: 32325186 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote) .

DATE: 11-11-2037

- 2 -

2.

Since the three envelopes to Des Moines, and the two

envelopes to Detroit were sent by registered mail to Weinheimer, the

return receipts would have been forwarded to Exhibitors Service.

It Is requested in this connection, that the Bureau determine the

present whereabouts of the return receiots.

3.

It is our information that it is the practice of Exhibitors

Service to fasten return receipts to the copies of the corresponding

correspondence. Since the investigation in instant case has established

that the questioned envelopes were sent to Weinhaimer without any cover-

ing letter, it is requested that the Bureau determine how these return

receipts were filed with the records of Exhibitors Service and what,

if any, explanation is offered for such manner of filing.

Of possible

interest to this phase of the investigation, it is noted that the postal

authorities do not make direct deliveries to the premises of Exhibitors

Service; instead, one of the employees, usually the aforementioned

the receipt and filing procedures relative to the return receipts.

4. It is understood that all correspondence between Weinheimer

and Exhibitors Service are maintained in one file marked "Weinheimer."

It is requested that this correspondence file be reviewed. and the dates

and contents of the correspondence be noted. Also, note should be made

of all correspondence to which return receipts may be attached.. Further,

note should be made of return receipts for which there is no corresponding

correspondence.

envelopes in question. It would be desirable to determine who would be

in a position to testify, if necessary, concerning the custom and practice

of filing correspondence.

This individual may possibly furnish some

circumstantial corroborative proof that no letter was enclosed in the

envelopes marked to Weinheimer.

It is understood that Callahan corresponded by mail and

telegram with James R. Hoffa during the period of Weinheimer's employment.

Specifically, it has been reported that a few days before Christmas of

1957, Callahan sent a telegram to Hoffa. It is requested that all

correspondence, memoranda and telegrams between Hoffa and Exhibitors

Service be reviewed and any pertinent information noted.

Should Exhibitors Service decline to make available the material

referred to in items 4 and 5, it is requested that the Criminal Division

be notified promptly in order that a grand jury subpoena may be issued

compelling the production of these records.

The investigations requested in this memorandum are made in

/somection with the on caration, instant case for trial which is

DocId: 32325186

Page 3

---

