# docid-32304736

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 193 05C 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10286-10366

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2ND NR 634

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEGAT, RO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

05/13/1964

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/24/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32304736

Page 1

34

---

## Page 2

/Heleased

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ist.

Director, FBI

Legat, Rome

JOSEPH BONANNO aka

AR

00: NY

(92-2710)

(92-85)

May 13, 1964

(P)

10

"La

ReRomelet,

3-25-64, and Bulet, 12-3-63, Captioned

Cosa

Nostra;

AR - Conspiracy."

By report received May 1, 1964, Dy. ARISTIDE

MANOPULO, Central Bureau,

Criminal Division, Italian

National

Folice, Rome, Italy, furnished the

following

additional information regarding the subject:

The records of the Office of Vital Statistics,

Castellammare del Golfo, Italy, reflect that

BONANNO WaS

single,

that he had

no brothers

sisters, and that

his parents were deceased.

These records further reflect that there is

sently

residing in that city GIOVANNI BONVENTRE,

a cousin of BONANNO, who was formerly a U.S. citizen

but who has reacquired Italian citizenship.

No

other relatives are known to reside in that city.

The criminal records for Castellammare del Golfo

disclose

no criminal record for BQNANNO. It was

indicated, however, that he came from a

family

having

criminal

record and that his father was

killed

some 40 years ago by the Mafia.

It was not possible to deternine if BONANNO has

any connection with criminal elements; however, it

was pointed out that when BONANNO arrived in Italy

in 1957 he was in contact with persons connected,

or suspected of connections with,

the Maria, suc

as FRANCESCO GAROFALO and GIOVANNI BONVENIRE.

Rome is continuing

to follow this matter closely

and any pertinent information developed will be promptly

forwarded to Pureau and interested offices.

5. - Bureau

1 - Rome

1 - Rome

(1

- Liaison Section) (1 - New York)

- Bufile 92-6054 La Cosa Nostra)

92-30

La Cosa Nostra

'92-85

1964

-605%

NOS RECORDED

102 MAY 2S 1964

58 JUNA

DooId: 32304736

Page 2

---

