# docid-32989483

## Page 1

File #:

105-NY - 66954

Serial Scope:

NW 54943

DocId: 32989483

---

## Page 2

FD-302 (Rev. 10-11-63)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date _

2/17/65

1.

On February 9, 1965, DOCtor WALTER GEORGE

SIKORA advised that on the previous Thursday, february 4,

1965, ke had had lunch at Ballantine's Restaurant, 1207

North Dearborn, Chicago, IllJ.ois, wiTh EUCENTUAPANCA,

and

Polish. Consulate Chicago.

Luncheon meeting Tasted approximately 24 hours from 12:00

noon to 2:30 p.I2.

Ee advised that this was the lirst

time he had met ANCZURA and that AUGENIUSZ PANEK had requested

that he be allowed to accompany them on this occasion as

ANCZURA had expressed an interest in meeting and talking

with Doctor SIKORA. (5)

DOctOr SIKORA continued that his impression of

ANCZURA was that of an intelligent and dedicated Communist

and one who is very pro-Russian in attitude.

Doctor

SIKORA further advised that he had determined from ANCZURA

that be bas been employed for the past several years in

the Visa and Passport Section of the Polish Ministry of

Foreign Affairs, and he appeared to be well versed in all

matters pertaining to this field. ANCZURA appeared rather

reluctant to discuss frealy much of his personal history and

at one point: to resporse to a question Dy Docto SIKORA

as to what ANCZURA had done during the was, ANCZURA

replied that Doctor SIKORA should not expect to find out

everytking about bin during their first meeting. (S)

Doctor SiKORA stated further that ANCZURA waS

oyousLy aware oi the tact that ne.

his visit to poland in september, 1964.

Doctor sikora

explained that AlCuIRA bad remarked about his, Doctor

SIKORA'S, having had some

slight difficulties with the

"Bureau of Investigation" in Poland

and he hoped that

Doctor SIKORA would understand that it was necessary for

the Polish Government to determine it persons visiting (5)

' On

2/9/65

_at

Chicago, I1linois

_File #

Chicago 105-5885 |€)

SA EUGENE A. NC COSE/ CSI

by -

_Date dictated

2/11/65

SA YUUURAN

his document contain:

nefther Pocommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 54943 DocId: 32989483

Page 2

---

## Page 3

2.

66(205 5885](5)

Poland

VOTE

sugaged in actirities against the interests

of tie

Polist Government.

D0070E 31X044

stated. that he

did not question ANS 084

hertant concerning bis knowledge

of the above interrogation as it appeared do bim as though

ANCZURA was atterpting to malie an apology for this baving

happened.

DOCtOr SIKORA advised that be did,

norever,

remind ANCZURA

and PANEK ther abous balI of the time he

had been in Poland during this visi. had been taken up

by questiming and he thorgioe ielt so was justified in

being angry

wITh This SChaRani. lu addicion, ke stated

he again brought up the subicit ot mis visa baying been

relused by Aboks

BrA, Consul Seneral 10115h Consilate

Chicago, serling

a that he could bed forgive KiTA for

Waving caused his this diet eiry.

ARCADRA

then assured

nam shal this world not harpon agaja and that he, sikorA,

should drop in at the Consulate and sis Consul, General

KIKA on sorE SEday iterase Men the rock at the Consulate

15 1ha1su6d and they are CelLAng there. S

DOctor SIRORA continued thai during the conversation

he recalls that anchulA had congratulated hin on having

opposed senator GOrdANk's candidacy for the Presidency and

indicated that they were anore he had worked for President

JOANSON's election.

DOCtOr SIKORA explained that for six

weeks during the fall of 1961 Be bad been employed by the

Demperatie Party to bo in chargo of

preparing polisa language

material and auveriisenants io, use on 201ish language

radio broadcasts in the united states duriag the presidential

campaign. He explained toat bis name had appeared as such

on cortain letterheads of the Denocratic Party during the

...campaign and he snoorined tust the Consulate had seen some "

letterhead or received inforuation concerning his activities.

DOCtON SIKORA advised tbat he

infomed ArCRURA that he had

been employed by the Demoeratic Party but that this did

not andessarily indicate ben be dad rotod. (5)

3

NW 54943 DocId: 32989483 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CE (105-5885](5)

in

the inture.

In addition, ANCAURA furnished Dogtor:

SIXORA

with a

Polis translation of an article mition by

IZABELLA ERBE, an oditor at the &ernan language newspaper

"Abendpost" published in Chicago which appeared in that

paper ou secember bly 3964.

According tO ANCTURA this

article contained soveral distortions of fact concerring

conditions in

Poland ution the author allegedly observed

during a recont trip to that area.

ANCRURA requested that

Doctor SixORA atiempi to correct these distortions and

discredit ERBE during Doctor SIKORA's subsequent radio

broadcasts ir Chicago.

To assist him in doing this

ANCZURA provided Doctor SIrORA With a List of sone criticisms

the article from the polish point of view. doctor

SIKORA stated that he advised ANIZURA that he would read

the article mentioned and consider ANCZURA's suggestions

concernIng E

Also auring this conversation ANCCURA mentioned

KonicE, a forter editor of the "Abendpost" who had

fired for allegedly opposing pro-Nazt sympathies on

pari ol the paper.

ANCZURA indicated that he was aware

that KONDICH aad prépared an anti-German article after

leaving the "Abenapost" and that this article had been

published in one

of Chicago's Polish language newspapers.

ANCZURA commented that KONICA mighi have been useful

to then but since he was no longer associated with the

"Abendpost" his uselulness was therefore diminished. (S)

Doctor SIKORA mentioned to the interviewing

Agents that me was acquainted with KoNDiCH as he, Doctor

SIKORA, handles Polish language advertising for Trans

World Airlines and that at oe time TranS WOrLd AILLIneS

had

sunsiderad opening an office in Yugoslavia and KONDICH

had

been interested in handling Yugoslav matters in Chicago

Lot Trans World Alrlines (S)

6

NW 54943 DocId: 32989483

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECREIL

Re:

WALTER GEORGE SEKORA (S)

In regard io Mrs.

Isabella Erbe

above interview, the following

notea: (S)

mentioned in the

MrS. 'Erbe,

during the course of the intervier conducted

by Special Agents of the Chicago Division of the Federal Bureau

of Investigation (FBI) in December, 1964, concerning another

matter,.

die that me was be coper 1922

and 1s of Suadetan. German backeround She was

previously married to Helnuth Erbe, a German national, who died

in a Nazi concentration camp during World War II, Mrs. Erbe is

currently married to Franciszek Praysiezny.

an Anerican citizen

of 'Polish extraction.

She is known professionally as Izabella

• Language newspaper,

•Erbe and holds the pondenano" litor ol the Chicaso German

Mrs. Erbe advised that in September, 1964, she, called

at the Polish

Consulate, Chicago, to obtain

lives in the town of-Nanyslow in the province o opole Mrs.

Erbe was interviewed for two hours in

the office

on the second floor of the consulate. She lasted a putogra

of jozel Anczura as being the person who interviewed her.

time he told her that the Polish Goverament would consider issuing

her a visa to travel to Poland if she would write nothing upon

her

return that would be critical of Poland. Anczura told her

that following her trip to poland, he wished she would call upon

him again and he requested that she submit

to his any articles

that she might publish concerning her trip

in Poland

their appearance in Chicago newspapers. Mrs. Pria advised that

she had no intention of submitting any

his review. prior to their publication.

¿tieles to ARezura for

In September, 1964, CG Ia29

who has furnished reliable

inIormation in the past, advised that the Polish Consulate,

Chicago; requested permission of the Polish Ministry of Foreign

"newSpape r

in Chicago, who desired to

in Poland. (S)

SECRET

6

NW 54943 DooId: 32989483 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

Re:

WALTER GEORGE SIKORA (5)

In regard to Andrew Kandich, mentioned in the above

interview of Dr. Sikora, CG Inh Who has furnished reliable

information in the

past, advised in November, 1964, that Kondich

was a former editor of the Chicago German language nerspaper,

"Abendpost"

, Who had been fired as an "intriguer"

• Kondich

prepared an article for publication in the October, 1964 edition.

of the magazine, "Focus/Midwest"

, in which he alleged that the

West German Government, with its embassy in Washington and its

Consulate in Chicago,

had sought to influenco German American

voters toward the political right and particularly the candidacy

of Senator Barry Goldwater for President.

Kondich also accused

the West German Governtent of indirectly encouraging a rebirth

of Nazism through various German American organizations and individuals

In the Chicago, area whom he stated had facist histories.

It Bas

the opinion of this source that Kondich had purposely distorted the

role of the West German Government in this matter and some of the

individuals whom he describas as pro-mazi have renounced

sympathies long ago. Kondich, in his article, did describe the

German American National Congress (DANK) as being pro-Nazi aud

certain individuals connected With the organization as being pro-Nazi

and according to the informant; this descriptton of them is at, least

partially accurate.

The source has asserted that

Kondtel is pro communist suda "prosessional atristen muo, mile

• editor of the "Abendrost"

was primarily concerned with x posing

as many German American leaders as possible as being pro-Nazi.

There: follows a translation from Polish to Englisk of the

article which originally appeared on December 17, 1964, 18 the

"Abendpost" [and was furnished by Anczura to-Dr. Sikora: (5)

"It is now our country, our children were born here"

"In the 3rd section of our report from our member editor -

Izabella Erbe - who enjoyed, at the irvitation of the

Foundation for European Problems, 2 weeks in Germany, she

' gives her impressions of her trip from Berlin to Wroclaw

which is temporarily under Polish administration.

SECRET

-7-

• NW 54943

DocId: 32989483

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SEeRsE

'Re :

(TALIER GEORGI SIKORA (S)

"The train connection from Berlin to Posnan to Wroclaw

vas excellent.

Probably more from curiosity than from a

sense of obligation the Polish customers clerk inspected

my baggage.

He was friendly and shortly i realized that

ho was well informed about Americar conditione.' In PoznaT

1 gọt on the traln bourd for roclaw. • first class was,

vacant

and.o dirty.

still norse appeared the more recessed

places. . Soon. I had company.

A railroad worker searing

like a trooper said: "Our children' don't have anything to

feeds well the children from

Naturally, I did not catch a glimpse of him anymore...At

the station in wroclaw, in spite oi. the late hour, 1:00

in the norning,. the traffic was lively:

(model Anno Domini) stood in front of the siation.

contracted ior one of them.

The muddy streets were empty

and deserted.

We tried to obtain a roou in four hotels.

But all were either filled or due to my western

appearance

I was left so choice but to go by taxi a distance of 46 Km

to Namyslow. Relatives of my husband lived there.

The

arrival was such à great surprise, that in spite of a

lasting lear as a result of hitting a tree during' the:

taxi

'I was greeted like :

Santa Claus. Even the smallest gift called lorth Irom the

2 children wild Indian

from America'

a lottéry..

"During my 2 day stay I went sightseeing to several

various neighboring villages which presented a troubled

and 'desperat. picture.. Baris without siding • in order

to have something. to burn; coal out here is more costly

than diamonds - in spite of the

fact that the people are

sitting on coal.

The: coal

here,

however, is intended for

export or sold on the black market. The

farms are,

•to

be sure, wealthier but this still remains" from the

Germans - and they-regutre as well, a violent renovation.

SECRET

NW 54943 Docid: 32989483 Page

---

## Page 8

SECRET

RO: [WALTER CHORCE SIKORA](E)

They lack, however, cement and wood. New laws are passed

lorcing the Polish

peasant to remodel the farms under

penalty o1 20,000 ZI. However, because they don't have

money, these same government officials laugh at this

Lar.

"Children and the young do not want to remain in the

country they study with self-denial and dedication.

Each

would eventually like to becone a university student.

'Because', it was said to me, 'have no anything to do

here'? "The Germans are returning here and driving us out'.

•At the same time it is emphasized:

We will remain here,

we will fight, it is our land, our children were born here.'

• "The Biggest part of this population came here aiter

• World War II Irom Galicia, which was grabbed by the Soviets.

• These people knew nothing more than hard times and war

• after which came. no better times for them. The second World

War brought for them new suifering.

True, now they were

furnished homes such

as they had never had before, they were

oreign and in their arrival they found the

ared 2s

hostile

as a volcano.

They have been waiting 20 years almost for a

determination of the question.

For them, Silesia means an

end to the long hard road.

They do not want to go further

and they live in darkness

but they themselves do not realize

"The remuneration of the laborer and white-collar

worker in Poland is unusually low and completely ridiculous

in relation to the exorbitant prices. There are many things

here which are defined in terms of 'luxury' but who can

alford them. I could not get during the time of my stay,

as. an example, butter.. Meat markets in Namyslow (Namslaw)

were also bate.. But among this one can see radios and ivs,

furniture and other objects of household use.

: indescribable yearning my sister-in-law showed me a small

mixer produced in the German. Democratic Republic.

I would

be afraid to beat the white of an egg with one of those.

On the other hand, however; Namyslow is rebuilt. The city

has a new school, which was proudly shown to me. The post

- 9 a

SECRET.

NW 54943 DocId: 32989483 • Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

Re :

WALTER GEORCE SIKORA](5)

office was restored.

However, water, as an example, is

yellow,

dirty and not fit for drinking.

When I proposed

to take

a bath, I

stood helplessly in front of yellow

soup. 1 decided

I to escape from this to Berlla.

"There is much politicizing, loudly and heedlessly.

Naturally the communists want to digress from this. ' The

10ieh es waless things of which one can toraly so

"Of progress, nothing can be said, though in Poland,

In spite of everything, there is much

being built, the

buildings are arising naturally in certain defined places;

new cities and villages. With that there is a

thirst to

conserve in the face of need for reconstruction.

"The facade is well finished - but behind it lies not

only the country but the whole nation, which suffers in

chains.

"One prays and goes to church. 'It does not help

though

even today. The fate of this nation it seems to

me is as

gray as the sky over Wroclaw on the morning when I arrived

here Irom Berlin.. Not only for the poles but likewise for

the millions of Germans living there. I spoke with several

in Poznan (Posen), 'It has never been worse' for us than

with the Poles,

for many years one has not seen such hatred

for the Germans'®

"With difficulty I carried my baggage when I detrained

My relatives in spite

"Was I. to

tell them that such things as these we have much better?

I

was pleased and thanked them.

"However, still greater was my joy when I entered my

room at the hotel in Kurfuerstendamn.

My trip to Silesia

was behind me."

SECRET

-==

I0 ∞

NA 54943

DocId: 32989483

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

Re:

(VALVER GEORGE SIKORA](5)

The following is a translation of the comments

furnished

by Anczura to Di. Sikora concerning the above article: (S)

In connection with the nixed-up article discussed in

"Abendpost", it appears that:S)

It was not the Poles who devastated the German forsst

economy but rather the Germans devastated the Polish lorests

during a period of live years occupation. from this actually

is the trouble with building - from this the authoress of the

article gets malicious enjoyment hypocritically feeling

sorry for the forests of the Polish peasant (S) ..

It was the Germans who robbed Polish property, the

treasures' of Polish culture, gold and everything that had

any value,.

They murdered besides this millions of people

on Polis land poles, Jews and others. Has the government

Of the German Federal Republic restored anything to Polari • No. (5)

Murder, criminal and systematic biological destruction

of the Polish nation was raised to official rank in politics.

The authoress o

of the article should consider the matter of

the hitlerite criminals of mich only a few received the

deserved punishment.(S

Today in the western and northern lands, immemoriably

Polish - almost, half of the population about four million

was born there and there is their right to the fatherland

in this manner, willingly we argue 'in retaliation. (S)

'Sikora advised Special Agents.

at the Polish Consulaté:- Chicago

DI. Sikora stated that

the

osténsible purpose for this call to Anczura was to arrange

for the

niece of his secretary, who is visiting in the United States, to

get an extension of her passport.

Sikora stated that' Anczura

agreed to assist her in this regard and Dr. Sikora advised that

she subsequently went to the Consulate,

where she saw Anczura and

obtained the extension without any: aifficulty or the usual wait 6)

SECRET

- 1I .

NW 54943 DocId: 32989483 Page 10

---

## Page 11

-SECRET

Re:

VALTER CHORCE SIKORA ((S)

involved in such matters.

Sikora mentioned that also during his

conversation

with Anczura

he had told Anczura that he would get in

touch with him again, possibly during the following week, but before

ho did so; he wanted

to get some more information concerning Izabella

Arbo from

a Dr. Fredricks.

Anczura indicated he was. not acquainted

with this person and stated abruptly that they could discuss this

matter when they next saw each other. Dr. Sikora advised that it

was apparent to him that Anczuza did

not want to discuss this matter

over the telephone. (S)

Dr. Sikora advised that Dr. Fredricks is DI. Her

Fredricks, President of the

German-American Chamber of Commerce of

the Midwest.

He stated he intends to contact this

individual in

the near future. (S)

Dr. Sikora further advised that with regard' to Anczura's

previous request that he respond to the "Abandpost" article and

discredit Erbe during his subsequent radio broadcast, he stated

he would not be inclined: to do this on the basis of the suggestions

made by Anczura as he'felt these suggestions were not responsive

the criticisms.in the article, but represented merely the usual

line of anti-German propaganda from official 'Polish sources. In

addition, Dr. ¡Sikora

stated he felt he could not make any comments

on the radio concerning Erbe until he had first met with her.

With regard to the "abendpost" article itself, Dr. Sikora stated

he felt the Polish translation from the German was not a correct

one in that it was slanted so as to appear more critical than was

the original article. Dr. Sikora stated he believes this was done

purposely so that when, it was sent to Warsaw it would create more

interest there and make

it appear as though the Consulate in Chicago

was doing a good job in locating and responding to such attacks in

the local German press

•(5)

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI

outside your agency:

* d°

and is

loaned to your agency;' it and its contents are not to be

distributed

SECRET

- 12 -

54943

DocId: 32989483 Page 11

---

