# docid-32329109

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90084-10090

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 55355 Date:

11-24-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: NSA

FROM:

NSA

TO :

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 05/28/1970

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS :

19.1

HH 55355

DocId: 32329109

Page 1

---

## Page 2

3/01

28 MAY 70 12112

R22-70 (T3

O/YS

0/ HCF -YRTA

JEK AOt 6(1/(B)

FBI

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland

1 2, 3, 4,5

COMINT REPORT

FBTASSFEDBY

120/98

5668 Sume

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK)

WARNING

5 Lazene

This Document Contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within

the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Sections 793, 794 and 798, the transmission

or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

This document is to be distributed to and read by only those

persons who are officially indoctrinated in accordance with com-

munications intelligence security regulations and who need the

information in order to perform their duties.

No action is to be taken on information herein reported, re-

gardless of temporary advantage, if such action might have the

effect of revealing the existence and nature of the source.

64-330 - 406

LUMEN SURE - 67 General

NOT RECORDED

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODEWORD MATERIAL

R22 - 70 [TS]

(s)

1. 1970

INDEXED

HH 55355

DocId: 32329109

Page

2

---

## Page 3

TO SECRET UMBLA

3/0 7R22-70 (T57

WXX/POPL, INSE-Y/B.

28 MAY 70 1211Z

O/YS

0/ HCF-YRTA

TRAVEL OF COMMUNIST NATIONALS TO LATIN AMERICA

The information in this report was derived from Latin:

American communications and is arranged alphabetically under

nationality of traveler in the following order:

name; travel

from/to; remarks. The message from/to, date, system and

worksheet number appears in parenthesis. When the same

travel and message information applies to more than one

traveler, entries will be cross referenced.

1.: Cuban

1. TATISTA FALLA, LAUREANO; Venezuela/ Ecuador; Ecuadoran

tourist visa authorized for subject and his wife ADELA DE LA

XCAMPA DEBATISTA, who live in Caracas and have been invited

to a council meeting of the American Christian Democrats

Organization in Quito on 28 May.

2330;

2338)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

2. TeARRILLO VICTORES, MARIA; Mexico/Venezuela; 1-year

Venezuelan transient visa authorized at the request of LIZZY

AUGUSTE FRANKENSTIEN DIAMANT.

2361)

(TS)

3. XCELA CARCIA, AGUSTIN VALENTIN; Panama/El. Salvador;

Seday Salvadoran tourist

visa authorized.

[TS]

1553)

4.* CONDE MARTINEZ, LUIS: Mexico/Venezuela; 1-year

Venezuelan transiet visa authorized subject and his wife

ANGEZICA TOMASAXFERNANDEZ DEXCONDE at the request of AMERICA

FERNANDEL S

widow of AGUILERA.

2351)

(TS]

5. XDIAZ, MAGALY: USA/ ECUADOR; Ecuadoran temporary

immigrant visa authorized for wife of Ecuadoran citizen

RALO AUGUSTO YERNANDEZ YCEVALIOS.

2327)

6. DIAZ PAIRO,

ANTONIO; Mexico/Venezuela; 1-year

Venezuelan transient visa authorized at the request of

subject's son MANDEL JORGE DIEZ TEIXEIRA.

2354)

(TS]

(TS]

PAGE 1 OF 5, PAGE(s)

TOP SECRET UMBRA

HH 55355

DocId: 32329109 Page 3-

---

## Page 4

TC? SECRET UMBRA

3/0L

7R22-70 [TS]

7. FERNANDEZ ESCOBAR, JOSE; Mexico/Venezuela;

Venezuelan transient visa authorized at the request of FELIX

DE JESUS FRANCISCO JIMENES.

(TS]

2353)

8. *FERNANDEZ SOTO, ZOE DE LA CRUZ, Mexico/Venezuela;

1-year Venezuelan

transient visa authorized at the request of

Le ject"a Sunt AMERICA FERNANDEZ, 11dOU DE AGUILERA.

2350) LTSS

(GUERRA, FRANCISCO A USA/Colombia: 30-day Colombian

single-entry visa authorized.

[TS]

5202)

10XIGLESIASTEDROSA, JOSE; Mexico/Venezuela; 1oyear

Venezuelan transient visa authorized subject and wile

AMEL IAT VICENTE YCALBEIRO at the request of their daughter

ESTRELLA IGLESIAS VICENTE.

2352)

[TS]

JIMENEZ BRITO, VLISES, Mexico/Venezuela; l-yeai

transient visa authorized subject, wite AlDA BRAVO

&CHAZABAL and their minor daughter MABEZ JIMENEZ BRAVO at the

request of RAUL FLORENTINO BRITO DEZ TORO.

72360) [TS 3K Act 6 (21(8)

12. XLOBA INAMORGADO, LORENZO; Mexico/Venezuela; 1-year

Venezuelan transient visa authorized subject, wife EDNA MARIA JUAN

PITA DESOBAINA and their minor children ILEANA and DUARDO

LOBAINA JUAN at the request of subjects brother-in-law bLis

ISIDRO JUAN PITA.

13.

Venezuelan transient visa authorized subject, wife YOLANDA

at the request of EUSEBIO AMADOR NOVOA VISUNA.

(+5]

2359)

single entry viss authorized.

14. KOENDOZA, MODESTO ARMANDO: USA/COlite: 30 day Falombia

[TS]

15. AMITTER LADRON DE GUEVARA,

EDUARDO JESUS; Venezuela/

Argentina; Argentine

requested for bearer of Venezuelan

emergency passport NI. 15114.

[TSJ

5707)

16,% MORFI BRAVO, MARIO ALBERTO; Mexico/Venezuela;

1-year

Venezuelan transient visa

authorized at the request of NICOLAS

ARMANDO ORTEGA GONZALEZ.

ITS]

2358)

= 2-

TOP SECRET UMBRA

HH 55355

DocId: 32329109

Page 4

---

## Page 5

TE: SECRET UMBÍ

3/0

17. XPEREZ, FRANCISCO ANDRES;U.S./ Colombia; 90-day

Colombian visa authorized.!

R22-70 (TS]

75211) (75]

18.* PEREZ PRIETO, ONELIA: Cuba Mexico/ Venezuela: Mexican

transit visa requested.

1558)

19 X SIERRA, PAULINO ALBERTO; USA/Colombia; 30-day Colombian

tourist visa authorized.

5200) [TS

2. Czechoslovak

-20. XCIGLER, STANISLAW; Czechoslovakia/Ecuador; Ecuadoran

no dress he cent a the State Company, CTS]

discuss hospital equipment.

2335)

3. East German

21.JPERSCHON, KURT: Czechoslovakia/Ecuador; 90-day Ecuadoran

business visa authorized fro representative of FRUCHTIMEX to

negotiate a banana deal.

2328; (TS]

2336)

22. SCHWEITZER, DANIEL (See PERSCHON, KURT)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

4. Hungarian

23. ABRI, LASZLO; Peru/Venezuela; Venezuela visa authorized

subject, member of Hungarian Delegation.

[TS)

24.

AKAR, LASZLO (SEe ABRI, LASZIO)

25. DECKER, GYULA (SEe ABRI, LASZIO)

26. KRACSEK, JANOS (See ABRI, LASZLO)

27. NAGY, MIKLOS (See ABRI, LASZIO)

5208) LTS.

29. TOROK, ERNO (See ABRI, LASZLO)

30. VALYI, PETER (See ABRI, LASZIO)

= 3=

TOP SECRET UMBRA

HH 55355

DocId:32329109 Page

5

---

## Page 6

TEP SECRET UMBA

3/0

R22-70 (T5)

31% VINCE, JOSZEF; USA/Mexico/Central America; Mexican

visas requested for Ambassador VINCE and Second Secretary

JANOS DOMENY for tourist visit prior to

Central America

(ss 3/0

(T01-70).

officlal visits in

1561)

7{T5

5.

Polish

32.

HOLUBOWUCZ, -; (see MARZYSZ, =-)

33. JABLONSKI, - ; (See MARZYSZ, •=)

34. MARZYSZ, •; Poland/Uruguay; Uruguayan temporary

visas requested for delegates from Foreign Trade office of Animex

who are interested in negotiating meat parchases with

Frigorifico Sudamericano S.A: and holding conversations with

experts in the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.

1749) LTSJ

6. Romanian

(1) (B)

35.% POPA, NICOLAE: Romania/Uruguay; Uruguayan

transit

visas requested.

71748) (T51

36. POPA, VIORICA; (See POPA, NICOLAE;)

7. Soviet

- 37. GOLOVENSHKO,,

ALEKSANDR; USSR/Mexico; Diplomatic

visas requested for New Soviet Military and Air attaché in

He

replaces KONSTANTIN BOGATIREV.

38.

LATYSHEV, NIKOLAI, USSR/Mexico; Mexican official visa

requested

for guest of International Soccer Federation to

take part in conference of Soccer Umpires for World

Championship. f

71559){T5]

39. MOSYACOV, ALEJANDRO; [See LATYSHEV, NIKOLAI]

40.

TRAPEZNIKOV, NIKOLAI; USSR/Mexico; 30-day Mexican

visa authorized for specialist in Soviet surgical equipment to

tälk to Mexican hospital authorties.

1560)

• Moisseley Youth Ballet|NFIl: Brazil/Chile; Chilea

sas requested for this group

(TS]

4146)

=40

TOP SECRET UMBRA

HH 55355

DocId:32329109

Page 6

---

## Page 7

TC? SECRET UMB.A

3/0

R22-70 (TS)

8 Yugoslav

JONE

42. /GENSBERGER DE RAKCIC, [FNU] ; Yugoslavia/Argentina;

An Argentine tourist visa was issued to the bearer of Yugoslav

common passport number HA 741449. He will arrive 18 June on the

[TSI

WS NR. 5706,

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

43. (KAJGANOVIC, LAZO; Yugoslavia/Brazil; Subject, who is

associated director of the Jugomineral firm in Zagreb and who

has passport NI. HA041552, requests a temporary business visa.

He will depart from Zagreb on 10 June and will remain in Sao

(Sociedade Paulista de Instalacoes Gerais Itda.)

Paulo For three months carrying out business contage with sPIe

(TSI

14 MAGDIC

issued to member of trade delegation.

26 May on Varis Airlines Flight NI. 863.

5705)

[TS]

35

- 5=

TOP SECRET UMBRA

HH 55355

DocId: 32329109

Page 7.

---

## Page 8

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODEWORD MATERIAL

HH 55355

DocId: 32329109

Page

---

