# docid-32305876

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

'JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/23/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10289-10006

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

31-88861-3,4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

ARENDT, HOWARD W.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

~ DATE: 01/12/1962

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

BBR, INMATE, FEDERAL REFORMATORY FOR WOMEN,

ASSOC, PARKS, LARRY, BKG, DESCR, CRIMINAL RECORD

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32305676

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

Released undef the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-3152017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

CLEVELAND

CLEVELAND

TITLE OF CASE

EILEEN

CURRY, aka - SUBJECT;

LARRY -PARKS,

aka - SUBJECT;

JOYCE ANN JANKOWSKI, aka - VICTIM;

SUSAN MARIE BLACK, aka - VICTIM

1/12/62

REPORT MADE BY

SA HOWARD W. ARENDT

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/1/61 - 1/10/62

TYPED BY

dkb

WSTA

REFERENCES

Report of SA HOWARD W. ARENDT, dated 10/5/61, Cleveland. u

Cleveland airtel to Pittsburgh, dated 1/2/62.

- P-

ENCLOSURE

TO BUFFALO:

One photograph of CLARENCE PARKS, aka, Larry

Parks, Columbus, Ohio Police Department # 67062.

LEADS

BUFFALO DIVISION

At Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1.

Will display enclosed photograph of PARKS to

Detectives RONALD BATTERSBY and PERCY ROSS to determine

1f he is identical to the LARRY PARKS there.

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

Bureau

(31-88861)

-

USA, Cleveland

31-

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

88861+3

3

Buffalo (31-2139) (Enc.

2

- Cleveland (31-4072) 2 DEbL BE InaLICE

5 JAN 15 1962

REC- 134

100

WIS3 PITHH

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

25

NOTATIONS

FACCLICYLRE

AGENCY

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. -.

HOW FWD.

BY….

• JAN

DocId: 32305876

Page 2

45 1962

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

10--76324-1

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992(44 USC 21UT Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

ts

CV 31-4072

On January 26, 1960, he was again arrested by

Cleveland, Ohio Police

Department for Investigation of

burglary, and held for Franklin County Sheriff's Office.

on this charge he received one year probation and fined

court costs.

On October 20, 1960, he was released to Cuyahoga

County, Ohio, authorities.

Sergeant LEWIS advised PARKS Is not presently.

wanted by the Columbus, Ohio Police Department. L

The following description was obtained from the

Columbus, Ohio Police Department files:

Name :

CLARENCE

PARKS, aka, Larry Pärks

Sex:

Male

Race:

Born:

Height:

Weight:

Hair:

Eyes:

Complexion:

Scars:

Residence:

Parents:

12/2/34, Cleveland, 0h10

5'111"

156 lbs.

Kinky black

Maroon

Medium brown

2" scar under left forearm

672 Franklin Avenue,

columbus,

Ohio

Father CLARENCE PARKS, SR.,

mother PAULINE PARKS,

3293 E. 125

Street, Cleveland, Ohio

Occupation:

FBI #:

Barber

398-744 D

The Pittsburgh Office has been requested to display

the photograph of CLARENCE PARKS to EILEEN CURRY, an inmate

of the Alderson, West Virginia Federal Penal Institution For

Women to determine 1f he 1s identical to subject LARRY PARKS

of this case. U

On December 1, 1961, the Buffalo Office advised as

follows:

The following investigation was condueted by SA

JAMES

P. MC MAHON on October 17, 1961:

At Toronto, Ontario, Canada

Detectives RONALD BATTERSBY and PERCY ROSS,

1000P

DocId: 32305876 Page 3

---

## Page 4

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 nöte) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

CV 31-4072

Morality Bureau, Metropolitan Toronto Police Department,

advised a telegraphic money order was sent to one EILEEN

CURRY, care of the 9th Street Western Union Office, Cleveland,

Oh10, on September 26, 1961. The money order was sent by

one

JERRY CLARK, Warwick Hotel, at 7:05 PM, September 26,

1961, was in the amount of $50.00 and was sent from the

National Telegraph Office at Front and University Streets

in Toronto. U

BATTERSBY and ROSS advised two airline tickets were

purchased at the Trans Canada Airline Office in the Royal York

Hotel on September 25, 1961, for travel by MARY and JANE O'BRIEN

from Cleveland, Ohio,

to Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The tickets

were purchased by Mrs. SIMONE JOHNSON, 550 Spadina Avenue,

Toronto, telephone number WA 5-4008;

BATTERSBY and ROSS stated investigation at 550

Spadina Avenue, disclosed that no one by the name of SIMONE

JOHNSON, LARRY PARKS or JERRY CLARK resided at this address

and further that telephone number WA 5-4008 1s listed to

Apartment 504, 710 Spadina Avenue, Toronto. \

BATTERSBY and ROSS stäted investigation at 710

Spadina disclosed one P. KIRBY resides in Apartment 504

with a woman who answers the description of SIMONE JOHNSON.

They stated repeated efforts to locate KIRBY and/or JOHNSON

for interview have met with negative results.

BATTERSBY and ROSS stated they have been unable

to locate

LARRY PARKS or a JERRY CLARK for interview. U

The following investigation was conducted by SA

LESLIE B. DIECKMAN: U

At Toronto, Ontario, Canada

On November 23, 1961, Mr. F.D. PRIOR, Manager,

Money Order Division, Canadian National Telegraph, advised

the proper person to

subpoena to produce records of money

orders transmitted from Canada to the United States would

be the manager of the receiving office in the United States.

He stated all pertinent records would be immediately

available or could be made available to this person.

3

31-88861-3

982-10008

DocId: 32305876 Page 4

---

