# docid-32308966

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10297-10093

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2609

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEG, RO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/20/1969

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/07/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32308966

Page 1

31

---

## Page 2

Kneleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 HoleT

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPIONAL TONY NO.

5010-106-03

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO

RNMENT

Memorandum

Director, FBI (92-6054)

FROM

Legat, Rome (92-80) (P.)

SUBJECT:

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

"i.-e

DATE:

3-20-69

ReROMlet 3-5-69.

For the Bureau's information,

there follows a

translation of a report furnished Legat on 3-19-69 by the

Central Bureau, Criminal Division,

Italian National Police,

Rome,,

which expresses 1ts observations relating to the

Mafia in Italy and its counterpart in the United States:

The ties between the Sicilian

Mafia

and its counterpart in the United States were par-

ticularly close during the years following World

War II.

The close ties were maintained principally

for the traffic of heroin from Sicily to the United

States.

The concentrated effort of the Italian

police in cooperation with the FBI and the U. S.

Bureau of Narcotics assisted in disclosing these

ties and stopping the illegal traffic of heroin

to the United States.

Cited in particular is the Italian police

which led to the arrest of

of charges against

48 others

for illicit traffic in

drugs and other

grave crimes.

The Judicial Tribunal

of Rome in November,

tences to CANEBA and

1967, handed down severe sen-

these

other individuals.

UlAt

ВЬЕСТ.

5 - Bureau

REC- 114

92-68542689

(1 - Liaison Section)

2

TJB: HD

1 - 19-927, Ани сно

ANTHONY CARIETO TAMAR 78 1969

ANTHONY CARILLO 1-

(7)

C.J:

59 APR 16 1969

Sul-100i

DocId: 32308966 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Ho

DATE: 11-11-2017

ROM 92-80

Another operation cited is the one con-

ducted by the Squadra Mobile (Flying Squad) of

sicily

the Italian Judiciary a

in June, 1965, which referred to

report

denouncing members

of the Sicilian Mafia and members of the American

criminal element for aggravated crminal conspiracy.

Penal proceedings in this

matter were concluded in

1968

when the court acquitted the defendants for in-

sufficiency of evidence.

the intervention

in this matter by the Italian police and the numerous

warrants of arrest issued during the police investi-

gation served to impede the efforts of the Mafia in

SIcilY.

The Italian police have reason to believe

that the Sicilian Mafia has abandoned its drug traffic

with America.

This belief is based on the fact that

at the Appalachian Convention of noted criminals in

the United States in 1957, it was suggested that dealing

in drugs be halted.

The police have also noted that in

the past several years there has been very little

activity in the trafficking of drugs between the U.s.

and Italy.

Sicilian Mafia

the American criminal element.

Two reasons

for this belief are set forth below:

1. It appears that the American criminal element

undertake to protect and conceal the location

of Sicilian Mafiosi in the United States who are

wanted for grave crimes committed in Italy.

One

case recalled is that of the dangerous Mafioso

SANIO) JER OF accused of many grave crimes in

which was the killing of a police

functionary.

LIBRICI illegally entered the U.s.

in 1960 under the protection of the Mafia and

was

not arrested until August

Based on information provided by the Italian police,

he was subsequently arrested in the United States

and deported to Italy.

However, many other Sicilian

Mafiosi sought by Italian justice have found refuge

in the United States under the protection of the

Mafia.

92-6054-2609

-2-

DocId: 32308966

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Reteased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2T07:H0

DATE: 11-14-2017

• *

ROM 92-80

2. There also exist close ties between the American

"criminal element and dangerous Mafiosi who have been

expelled from the United States and reside in Italy.

The noted American gangster/LUCKY LUCIANO died in

Italy in 1961; however,

ohe of the-bosses of the

American Mafia, GIUSEPPEDODO, also known as Joe

Adonis, has been residing in Italy since 1956. In

regard

to ADONIS, it will be recalled that ir

advised the Italian police that a comittee of

the Federal Bureau of Investigatior

members of la Cosa Nostra in the United State DAVID

of meeting JOE ADONIS.

One of the possible reasons

tor the meeting was to discuss a possible successor

to VIlE CINOVESE, who at that time was in very

US health.

Investigation by the Italian National

Police verified that these individuals had arrived

in Italy but it was

not possible to establish whether

they met with ADONIS.

CARILLO,

however, was arrested by the Italian

subsequently granted provisional liberty; however,

he must report to the Italian police every 15 days.

The charge against CARILLO is still being investi-

gated by an Investigating Magistrate and no decision

has yet been handed down,

The activities of JOE ADONIS are closely followed,

and pertinent information developed relating to

his activities is furnished to American police

authorities.

Other members of the American criminal element

of Italian origin suspected of belonging to La Cosa

Nostra in the United States will frequently travel

to Italy with the apparent purpose of touring and

visiting relatives.

Because of the prompt notifica-

tion by the American police authorities.

their

activities are checked and any pertinent

information

developed is disseminated to American authorities.

_3 -

92

16054-2609

DocId: 32308966

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released inder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107"10

DATE: 11-14-2017

ROM 92-80

• The above report does not provide data not already

known to the Bureau.

However

it has been reported to

present the observations of the Italian police regarding

the Italian Mafia and the American criminal element.

HENRY MANFREDI, Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous

washington, D.C.

advised on 3-19-69 that he has con-

cluded his talks with Italian police officials regarding its

investigation of the 90 individuals who have been charged

with aggravated criminal conspiracy to import and export

narcotics to and from Italy and with regard to the CARILLO

case.

MANFREDI advised he has suggested to Italian

authorities that they examine records of the SALVATORE CANEBA

trial which was concludad in 1967, and the records of the

held in Reggio Calabria on 10-23-67 against 115 defendants,

all of whom were charged with being members of the Italian

Mafia and with aggravated criminal conspiracy.

The Bureau

will recall in that trial on 12-23-68 the court sentenced

73 of

the defendants to prison terms ranging from 3 months

to 27 years.

Forty of the defendants were acquitted on grounds

the records

current investigation of the 90 individuals.

MANFREDI said there is no question that the case

against TONY CARILLO is a weak one.

He did suggest to the

Italian police that they might wish to issue letters rogatory

could be questioned regarding any possible ties

According to MANFREDI, SARAGO was

one of six Italians arrested in Canada in the latter part of

1967 for bringing narcotics into Canada.

Any pertinent developments in this matter received

by Legat will be reported to the Bureau promptly.

=4-

92-6054-2609

DocId: 32308966 Page 5

---

