# docid-32328308

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/5/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90073-10012

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 92-3088-1049

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/20/1964

9

DAVE YARAS

MURRAY L. HUMPHREYS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

. v9.1

DocId: 32328308

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-350 Sub 11

FRANK

FERRARO

and

NEWEST 020245

When BIEBER informed PRIO concerning the above

situation, PRIO opined that the police may have

"surrounded"

this meeting due to the recent bombings of restaurants in

the Chicago area. This caused PRIO to comment,

"All these

guys need money, their businesses are going bad, so they

set their places on fire."

This caused BIEBER to comment,

"And you guys get the blame for it." This may be a

significant comment, indicating that organized crime in

Chicago is not involved in the wide-spread arson and.

bombings which have taken place inChicago during the past

two years.

On the other hand, PRIO may have made this

comment to BIEBER for strategic purposes.

At this point, BIEBER attempted to learn the

location of BRODKIN and

was informed by BRODKIN's secretary

that she was informed by BRODKIN that he would be "on the

boat." PRIO then commented that the secretary must refer

to the yacht of Chicago top hoodlum FRANK FERRARO.

BIEBER and PRIO then discussed which restaurant

the Chicago hoodlums were discovered in.

BIEBER did not

appear to be certain of the name but felt that it was

either the Cork Restaurant on Dempster Avenue in Skokie,

Illinois, a northern suburb of Chicago, or the Cart

Restaurant on Nabask. During this discussion, PRIO DAY

mentioned that the Cork Restaurant in Skokie is the joint

where DAVY goes " and BIrBEr commented that he had observed

DAVY there the previous night.

It is noted that information has'

from CG 6614-C indicating that the Cork Restaurant in

Skokie is a

favorite

hangout of North Side hoodlums.

While PRIO waited for the return of ALDERISIO

and SOLANO,

he discussed politics with BIEBER. It became

obvious during this conversation that PRIO favors the

election of President JOHNSON over Senator GOLDWATER,

PRIO then requested BIEBER to recontact"HY" and

"find out what's going on.?

WeTS DESAN

sen"

DocId: 32328308

Page 2

---

