# docid-32328788

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90080-10003

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-58681-46

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/30/1953

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

HAROLD ISAACS

TULIP KANT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32328788

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

Released unter the

John Tr

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

0000

Studies

TOP SECRET

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT NEW YORK

REPORT MADE AT

NEW YORK

RM

-DATEADHEN

PERIOD FOR WHICH MARE

12/30/53.11/30;12/2-4,

7-12: 14-165

REPORT MADE BY

8) RALPH F. MILLER

TITI

UNKNOWN SUBJECT,

CHARACTER OF CASE

was

Tulip,.

Kant

ESPIONAGE - R

(SOVNE) (s)

5268544

ALIS INIONATION CONTAINEU

WEXEIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPTIO

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

DO NOT DISSEMINATE WHERE SHORN OTHERWISE.

Tenants™

of 201 West 108th Street and 50 Manhattan Avenue,

both NYC, residence of Mr.

and Mrs.

DAVID DALLIN in 1944,

set forth.

SOAQUIN

Drive,

New York City, where JOAQUIN MAURIN apparently maintains &

American

Literary Agency.

Background information on JEANnE

DECLASSIFY ON:

MAURIN

set forth.

DALLIN

set forth

puts of interview with lix, abel tre.

Classified by

Declassify on: DADR/415/84

S

WALTER ZYBROSKI, superintendent, 201 West 108th

New York city,

advised

on December 15,

that he had no list of tenants at this

1944, and

he did not particularly recall any of

le stated that i majority of the tenantshed moved out and he

noted that there

were a great number of

omers living with

most of the

tenants during that period

28

re

28/98.

heir

Mr. ZYBROSKI stated that

he did recall the

STALINSKY

family, inasmuch as Mrs.

STALINSKY still resides

at this address.

He said that Mr. STALINSKY had died about

three months ago.

STALINSKY presently has several

roomers,

all of whom appear to be reputable people.

He advised

of them is a

woman whose son is a doctor on Park

Mr. ZYBROSKI stated he had a vague recollection that a

man by

DALLIN had lived at this address and that

he had been contacted by agents of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation in that matter,

but he could recall no details,

APPROVED ANI

FORWARDED

5A.in

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPY

IN

FILE

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

Bureau (65-58681) (RM)

Washington

Field;

(Info.) (RM

8865-53611687

/P DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

65015868)

Y.AP

INDEXED

REPARDED

-54

ABO A NOU - C

PROPERTY OF FBI-FHIS

AGENCY TO WHICH LOANED,

COMFIDENTAL REPORT AND ITS COSTENTSSARENIOAEDETO YOU aY jre A ENG RAGOBE DISTRISUTED OUTSIDE OF

U. 5. GOVERNMENT PRINTINGTORTICE,

DocId: 32328788

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Nöte).

DATE:

11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 65-15057

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

INFORMANTS

Identity of

Source

Date of

Activity

and/or

Descrip-

tion of

Informa-

tion

* Documentation

Date

Received

Agent

Who

Received

Informa-

tion

File

Number

Where

Located

T-I

Mrs. MELVIN,

Secretary

to. Mr.

CHARLES

GREENTHAL,

Herbert

Charles Co.,

4 Bast 46th

Street,

New York City,

who requested

her name be

kept

confidential

T-2

CSNY-1

* Documentation

65-13334-

105

MISCELLANEOUS

This report is being marked top

as it contains information from Bureau Source

secret inasmuch

in the title

-13-

SECRET

DocId: 32328788

Page 3

---

