# docid-32338841

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-90143-10259

100-370750-94

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USe 2107 Notel.

Cased: NW 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LA

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/03/1946

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 54460

13

DocId: 32338841

Page 1

---

## Page 2

IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO

FILE NO.

100-21198B

Mederal Bureau m huestigatio

Uniten States Arpartment of Justire

510 South Spring Street, Room 900

Los Angeles 13, California

May 3, 19460

ONFI

Director, FBI

ON

INSORAUCTON CONTAINED

KEN IN UNASH 720 27

AS SOON 012E1hx82.

• Re:

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON, waS.

INTERNAT. SECURITY. -

757741

Mr. Noiçon

raz. 'F. fo ta

Nir. Cars.

Mr. Clavin

TEr. Ladd.

Mr. Micheis

Mr. Meson.

TAL

Mr. Egaa.

Mr. Gurnsa..

Mr. Marbs +

Mr. Hendea

ASSIFIED

SHOWN

Mr. Quina Tin

HER

EXCEPT US

Dear Sir:

Declassi

INTEL

Reference is made

ta.ny teletype dated March 19,

Mis

1946

which the Bureau was advised that CNDI IA JO-l has been reemployed and this

until May 1, 194i6.

According to this informant LAWSON has been unusually

busy rewriting a script for WALTERKWANGER inasmuch as the production date

has been set up.

It appears that LAWSON retains his position of: leader-

ship in the Conmunist movement in the motion picture inaustry.,

This

infornant has reported that LAWSON is still consulted regarding the

policies and programs of such Communist front organizations

the People's

Educational Center and the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization.

on March 28, 1946, informant reported that

woman contacted LAWSON and enlisted his support for RUBEN

unidentified

agreed to see 'NEDISPARKS, President of the Los Angeles Count

party, and secure through SPARKS the support of the cIo: a (ul

This informant has also disclosed that LAWSON has suggested

to PAULINE AUBER, Communist and Executive Secretary of the Hollywood

Writers Mobilization, that this organization send a message to the Soviet

Film Industries asking that more Russian pictures be shown in this country

According to this informant, LAWSON has also discussed with LAUBER the:

possibilities of arousing a real interest in the Negro movement based upon

held in Detroit on May 30, will attract.

On March 28, 1946,

attend a meeting at the home of NORAHuLLEGREN, 7201 Mansfield, to work

*Comnittee on American Soviet Relations' and meet with two

Russian foreign correspondents who are presently in Los Angeles: HELLGREN

is a Comrap suspect and this information enabled Agents of the office to

cover this meeting at which time several other Communists were present

had been identified

100s 119100-94

RECORDED

1/0

FOR VICTORY

BUY

STATES

WAR

BONDS

2 MAY: 2 9 1946

COPIES DESTROYED

28 MAR 25

1963

HH

544.60

DocTd: 32338841

Page 2

---

