# docid-32187366

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 05C 2107 hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JA AsSassmauon System

Identification Form

Date:

3/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10246-10076

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

89-43-3773

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

6

SEE FBI 62-109060-2883

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/06/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32187366

16

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

(agreeal 151335803 Roo/gel JfK)

SAC, SAN DIEGO (62-1529)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ASSASSINATION OF FRESIDENI

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

JOHN PITZGERALD KONNEDY,

DATE 5/518/BY 2542/ln /rare

11/22/03, DALIAS, TEXAS

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCENT AKiLL# 4263

(00: DL)

Pic: re pie

Re Dallas airtel to the Bureau dated 3/1/04.

Enclosed herewith for Dallas are 25 copies cach

of the following separate inserts allegine some person or

persons other than LiE HARVEY OSWALD connitted the

assassination.

The Incerts include investisation

concerning the following:

(1)

WALLACE FEED JOANSON. Grossmont, California.

(Investigation corpletely resolved.

.. (2)

uninown perion sith a weapon observed at

Hashington

C., 9/3/63.

(Investigation completely rosolvcd.)

(3)

1962 arrest by Mexican authorities

American plannine to ascarinato Precitont /eige

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY.

(Investigation complutely resolved.)

25 copied of an administrative indent

sho:ing ldentits of confidentia? cource

includea.

(4)

"Neues Buropa"

, rect German denspaper,

11/1/0310d46.0n.

(Investigation completely recolved and

previoubly furnished to Bureau in letterhead

memorandur dated 2/00/04, no cons to Dallan.)

(5)

LOUISA KELLY,

Impertal Boach, California.

(Investilation somelatoly

resulved.)

89-43-3773

-

Bureau

i 2

Dalia: (89-3) (Ene 150)(FC0 LUISRED)

1 - san Disgo

RSD: jih

(5)

- DALLAS

DocId: 32187366 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

DATE: 11-14-2017

. =

1992 711 U5C

Hote).

1

SD 62-1529

DI 89-43

RSB: jmh

ALL INFORMAT

FU CONTAINED

HEREIN IS

CLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WARRE SHOWN

OTHERWIST

1962. Arrest by

• Mexican Authorities

of an American Planning to Assassinate

President JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

CONFIDDAITIAL

CLASS, & EXT. BY

REASON-FCIN II, 1-2

072 but i Extr

destroyed

coverd in siseit

Rom Lepat, Hep.

1102

SA ROBERT

AN EL CENTRO, CALLFORNIA

Agent RAMON OROZCO A., State Judicial Police,

Mexicalis

advised he had learned unofficially through his office

Pala la Ponda, Mexico, on November 26; 1963 knat

during President JOHN I. KENNEDY's visit to Mexico in 1962,

Secret Police of Mexico City 'arrested an American who,

accoraing to intormati

President KENNEDY.

Nuelved,

on received, was planning to assassinate

On December

17,

1963, an individual who requested

his identity not be divulged, but who has furnished reliable

information in the past, advised that during President

JOHN F. KENNEDY'S visit

to Mexico, June 29 to July 1, 1962,

one American was arrested by Mexican authorities during

the course of this visit.

This individuals DAND LOsErh

1/ 62,6391

Presidential automobile in which President KENNEDY was riding.

It subsequently developed that ST. JACQUES was a psychopathic

case

who fancied that all cancer cases in the United States

were being caused by the noxious fumes being released by

chemical factories and he wanted to talk to President KENNEDY

about this matter.

SI. JACQUES WaS

held in custody by Mexican authorities

until July 3, 1962, at which time he was deported from Mexico

City

to San Antonio, Texas:

Complete background on ST. JACQUES was furnished to

the United States Secret Service while they were In Mexico CIty,

Mexico.

OSCLASSIFIED BY 4803 BOSK

09 11-17-93

CONFIDENTIAL

69-43-3113

DocId: 32187366

Page 3

---

