# docid-32292108

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10208-10384

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-89392-10, 11

Released

under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:WW 53074 Date:

15-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, PX

DIRECTOR, FBI

.!'

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/29/1968

3

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

4

Redact

06/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

HT 53074

DocId: 32292108

Page

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES

VERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-89392)

DATE:

4/19/68

FROM

(/ SAC, MIAMI (134-1498) (P)

SELRETI

JP6

SUBJECT:

TASAR AMELIO RUFO

ARROYO de LLANO,

aka-

MATION CON

÷16224

SI

9/97

IS - CUBA

Classified by spr in t

UNCLAS

NI (00: Miami)

Declassify on: RADR SPIU

Re Miami airtel 2/21/68; Phoenix letter 3/29/68.T27

It is noted that information furnished by CESAR

DIOSDADO, _

Fogaring Wis SUctat, San elationship, at BALTASA, 1968,

with BALTASAR

ARROYO is completely at variance with that furnished by Miami

Agents, and also at variance with that information furnished

in signed statement by BALTASAR ARROYO(*(

It is known to the Miami Office that CESAR DIOSDADO

was

transferred several years ago to Key West, Florida, from

Laredo, Texas, as a disciplinary measure after DIOSDADO per-

jured himself

in U. S. District Court at Laredo. Because of

3/21/57

this, and his generally bad reputation among all law enforce-

mada bi even the emers made by las panel that credened

should be given to statements made by DIOSDADO.(KQ)

The Miami Office does not recommend Bureau's making

protest to U. S. Customs regarding DIOSDADO's failure to

furnish the complete facts of this matter to the Miami Office.

Customs appears also to have had problems in the past with

68-52

USES

JF

DIOSDADO, and it is believed that his transfer to San Luis

was for the purpose of rectifying an embarrassing situation

for Customs. Because of this, it is not felt that a protest

at this time would serve any useful purpose u

One copy of this communication is being furnished

to the Phoenix Office

for theii guidance in future contacts

with DIOSDADO. (MU)

- 101

- 8939211

- Bureau

. (RM)

REC-20

1 - Phoenix (134-467) (RM) (Infg

2 § Miami

REVIEWED BY KEYJIK

• TASK FORCES APR 22

CPG/ dk

(5)

ON -

21

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART 1A

57 APR 301968

Buy U.S. Savings Bond Relarly on the Payroll Savings Plan

lat)

5010-108-01

NW 53074 DooId: 32292108

Page 2

---

## Page 3

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106-93

MAY 196TON

'GSA GEN. 'F..G. NO. 27

UNITED STATES OVERNMENT

Memorandum

FROM

SUBJECT:

РАДД

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-89392)

DATE:

3/29/68

KEY!

SAC, PHOENIX (134-467) (RUC)

ALI INFONVATION CONTAINED

HEREI

EXC

BALTASAR AMELIO RUFO ARROYO, DE LLANO, Daka SE

3610

IS - CUBA

CS CRUZAPON PORTANCE

00:

Miami

NORER IS USCLAGSIISW

10200

Classifie

Declassify

Re Miami airtel to the Bureau, 2/21/68, and Bureau

airtel to Miami and Phoenix, 3/5/68.

On March 26, 1968 CESAR DIOSDADO, U. S. Customs,

San Luis, Arizona, furnished the following information

concerning BALTASAR ARROYO: (ul

DIOSDADO denied that ARROYO was a long-time source

1/97,

of his, but stated that he has known about ARROYO since 1957;

that in the normal course of his business to detect illegal

smuggling of arms to Cuba he picked out ARROYO as a prime

suspect and endeavored to

of several years. (N/U

DIOSDADO stated that one MARIO MATO (now deceased)

and BALTASAR ARROYO were meeting all the boats and planes

5668-5201

between Cuba and the United States.

It was DIOSDADO's opinion

that they were the link between Cuban and U. S sources in

the smuggling business from the U. S. to Cuba, AW

DIOSDADO stated that he does not believe that

ARROYO can be trusted; that the opportunity for a working

relationship with ARROYO did not present itself until the

Treasury

latter

came to him in September, 1967 as he remembers; ARROYO

stated that HORACIO VELIZ PEREZ had contacted him as an

agent for the Cuban Government. When asked why ARROYO came

to him, DIOSDADO, in this matter instead of to the FBI,

DIOSDADO stated that he doesn't know, except that ARROYO

would have known that he, DIOSDADO, was an officer of the

ĐE

Government of the United States and had been checking on

Cuban smuggling activities for a number of years in theseu

Bureau (ENSH (AM)

Miami (RM)

REC 18

105-89392-10

1 - Phoenixes oin

CLC/mcl

Stretail 6681)

EX 106

CaS APR 2 1968

(9)

@APR 101968

STee 105-178107 (Velig)

105-178108 (Bonzales)

LATIN GUERICAN

10 8 as

178

10

UNREE COPY FILED

NW 53074 DooId: 32292108

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PX 134-467

CLC/mcl

SECRET

Key West area.

subject immediately (AU

DIOSDADO stated that when ARROYO first told him

about his contacts with VELIZ PEREZ he felt that ARROYO was

"playing both sides of the fence," trying to determine for

himself whether the United States or Cuba had him under

surveillance.

DIOSDADO advised that he immediately brought

ARROYO and VELIZ PEREZ to the attention of Special Agents of

the FBI in view of the Cuban Intelligence aspect of the

presence of VELIZ PEREZ and ARROYO in Key West. DIOSDADO

premised this statement on the assertion that ARROYO was a

prime suspect in the smuggling of arms to Cuba, and at the

same time ARROYO was endeavoring to stay in good graces with

United States authoritiesG(ul

Concerning the background of the ARROYO and VELIZ

PEREZ relationship, DIOSDADO stated that he knew very little;

that according to ARROYO, VELIZ PEREZ, a printer by

came to the hited States in about August, 1967 and immediately

contact with ARROYO under the instructions of the Cuban

Government. VELIZ PEREZ has some blood relationship with a

young woman by the name of GLORIA HACES, or HASES, or ACES,

who came to the United States in, 1965,

and operates a beauty

parlor in the Du Pont Plaza Hotel in Miami.

Reportedly a

contact of VELIZ PEREZ is a Mrs.* HERRERA,

the owner of a

small corner grocery

Key west, florida (lut Ist Street and the water front in

DIOSDADO was asked if he could furnish 'any

identification of GILBERTO BLANCO and RAFAEL GONZALES DUANY.

He answered in the negative and said they were not known to

him.

DIOSDADO waS

adamant in his assertion that all the

information he had about ARROYO was furnished to Special

Agents of the Miami Office of the FBI prior to his transfer

from that area (H(u)

2

NW 53074 DooId: 32292108 Page 4

---

