# docid-32341023

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10221-10416

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-1ST NR 395, 2ND NR 395

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: OFFICE OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/26/1968

6

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

19.1

DocId: 32341023

23

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USC 210% Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

7/19/66

1

Mr. Rosen

ALL INPORMATION CONTAINED

HERBIN IS UNCTASSITTED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Mr. Cotter

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

Mr. Wannall

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

MASCA

10:

SACS,

New YOrk

IN THIS DOCUMENT. ExCEPt

for the

no BRACKETS

9-397

San Juan

2995 SUI OLL GAT

From:

Director, FBI

Classified by

P6 BIA GEL

apa course a 3a n (6-14)

ROBERTO COMEBA ESCUDERO

Declassity on:/ DgoR/of4/85

MISCELLANDOUS - INFORMATION

CONCERILING

10-21-97

(JEK

(LATIN-AMERICAN SECTION)

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO LSR

DECLASSIFY ON. 25X

ReBuairtel 7/9/68 and Bureau telephone call to

JFK

New York Office lastant date.

For Information Miami and San Juan, (Legal Attache

Mexico CCy»

by teletype dated 7/18/68 advised that)C)

9803 Pdalge/ $211.322 3/31/92

lad contacted Office of Legat, Mexico City: 7/18/68 advising

that the Spantall officials had arrived in Mexico and has

examined Spanisa property in that country and had conferred with?

Mexican oificials regarding possible attack by cuban rower

agaLaSt

Spanish establishments ](60CK

The CIATE

itselal had stated that the Spanish Visitors

would be departing fron Mexico for New York and would arrive

in that city evening ot 1/19/05,1or scheduled braeling by

Bureau representatives there. (The Spanish officials have

expressed considerable

pettin to being sen tend

SAC, Sau Juan, and SAs at Miaml. They had noted they had

FILED

made discreet notes of these conterences but would appreciate

receipt of written reports waica migat be avariable to assist

then in preparing those tinal report on zocuraing to Spain. Glu)

New Xork has been instructed to conduct briefing

of captioned individuals in accordance with prior instruettons

but to abstain fron comitting Burenu to

reports of the nature described above.

DVIS ONE 0215100

97. 44741

605 1592

SOS REVERSE

GLATO VOL

NOT RECORDED

SI

TOR

105-176720

(Cuban Power)

97-4474C (I(RR)

12G JUL 24 1960

CL

"SITICATION

AOLION

Foreign Liaison Unit

(15)

JUL 261968

DUPLICATE YELLOWEE NOTE PACE. TRO

SECRET

Tana Na 395

DocId: 32341023

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(11 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREU

13Я032

Aletel to linal

Re: LORENZEO CALATAYUD DE LA HOZ](G-1)(u)

Should captioned individuals request written reports, in line

with referenced telephone call the lew York Office will advise

then that no such reports are available in that office but that

the question will be referred to Bureau headquarters for

consideration.

Manly san duan and hew york should by return airce.

SUDRIT LAN SULtaDLe for dIssemination containing detaile os

subject matters involved during briefing by those offices of

the Spanish officials] The material will be analyzed by Dureau (1)lu)

and deterination made with regard to question of disseuination.

Dissemination may be accomplished through [Legat at Paris Joe

This matter must be given expeditious handling to

assure that if information is furnished to the Spanish Goverument

it may be done at an early date (G-+)(u)

(G-I)u) [Subjects are Spanish Internal Security Service membere

who have

been traveling in U. S. and Mexico surveying Spanish

establishnents and attenpting to obtain inforuation for protection

of such establishments in view ot threats against them by Cuban

Power They have been accompanied in their travels by a CINCo<

representative] We previously instructed Miami, San Juan and Lad

New York Offices to cooperate with these offielals to the point

of briefing them concerning the bombing threats which have been

received to date.and putting them in touch with appropriate local

police officials.

Re Bureau telephone call was made by Section Chief

W. R. Wannall to New York Superyisor Harry Hoeg this date and

Instructions herein are designed to provide cooperation with the

request of the Spanish authorities as noted by Legat, Mexico City,

(6*1)(0)

S CIA ZAA

12. 27/91 LIR

9803 edd/gel *211,3263/31192

97-4474-2NONR3AS

351-10410

SECRET

DocId: 32341023 Page 3

---

