# docid-32329583

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90086-10240

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-7824-51

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE:

12/01/1964

PAGES:

.. 2

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH STEIN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

NN 45959

DocId: 32329583

Page 1

---

## Page 2

12/1/64

AIETEL

1/4

TO

BUBJBCT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-7821)

SAC, CHICAGO (92-350 Sub 1)

JOSEPE STEIN

AR

"JUNE"

RoBuairtel 11/9/64, and Chicago airtal 11/23/64.

Hirct National Hortgage Coupany 1s nortgage

brokerage business operated by JOSEPH STEIN for FELIX

"HILMAUKEE PHIL" ALDERISIO.

nOBIT FIRELL i6 enployee

of Firat National Hortgage

• Conpany, who is also associated

with toricuido hortgage Corporation, Mooling; Illinois.

Also connoctod with Worldride aro the followitg Individuals,

all of von are controlled by JAlES "THE BOLBEN" CArCAR, &

South Suburban Cook County hoodlur who is reputed to be

second in comnand to hoodlun overlord FRAK LA PORTE:

who 10 1dentical with CG 6700-0;

GUIDO TIDANIZI

con nan and bad check passer fron

Chicago Hoights, 1111nc1s;

GUS RUBINO, Pornor bail bondaran, thiet and

hoodlum associate;

a FCI of the Chicago Division

iNt.

OTHER 4

Bureau (AL) (RMS)

Chicago

Ack.nac/rmg

(4)

рыс.

ASHI

92-350-Jud 1-39

Scorchel

forinlized

filed

ni endler

1959

Docia: 32329583

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 82-350 Sub 1

perit.

On 11/24/64, CG 6738-C* advised that a meeting

was held in his presenco during which ALDECISIO hold a

kangaroo court concerning the activities of BOE FERRELl, and

who causod a fenalo acquaintance of ALDERISIO

to swindle 32,000 for then on a bogus whiskey deal.

CATUARA

present at the neeting on behalf of

his right hand

man and enforcer. CATARA explained that L

had no

prior knolodge that lenale swindler was acquaintance of

ALDERISIO and that FERRELL was nost at fault because female

actually FERRELL's girl friend ood be got her into 1t.

ALDERISIO Instructed FERRELL,

and CATUARA to return

the $2,000 to the fenale so she could return sane to ultimate

•victins.: ALDERISIO told CATUARA he would "nake it up to

him in sons other way. " During the course of this meeting,

1t was apparent from tenure of conversation that CATUARA

1e taking orders fron ALDERISIO and 1s, therefore, of lesser

stature in the Chicago area organized crime structure than

ALDERISIO.

ALDERISIO learned from

CATUARA and

cut of Worldwide Hortgage Corporation activities through

USe of FERRELL's office space at Wheeling, Illinois,

Where-

upon ALDORISIO becare extremely provokod because FERRELL had

falled to turn ovor any of his 10% cut to ALDERISIO.

FERRELL

vas ordered by ALDMISIO to innediately get out of the

Wheeling office and confine his activities to First National

Mortgage Company business at Chicago, Ill1no1e.

30R STEIN explained to ALDERISIO a deal between

himself,

FIDANZI and the Bank of Niles, Miles,

I1l1no1o,

therein STEIN with assistance of

and

FIDANZI arranged with the Bank of Niles to collect a

$33,000 outstanding loan account.

and FIDANZI

felt they had a comission coning; However, STEIN stated

this collection was not done for a lee and, therefore, no

money was coming to anyone. STEIN, in conversation with

OTHER 4

---

