# docid-32570678

## Page 1

Bland

Anderson

061J2SSVEONC 51

ANCHS MEAN

II7023

201163030

SECRED

3/16/68

Alrtel

To:

SACS,

Daffalo

- Now Tori: (105-7004)

Froas. Dircetor, FBT (100-408305)

JASE CORIN

IS • CANADA

00/4194

Classified SPsmte/GeL

Declossify on OROR (Je

MalVairtel 8/9/62 with enclosed lettarhead sonorantu.

Bureon Piles disclose

the rollovine intormacion possibly

sentens mich somare A trans,

Foristered erner of vehicle

beariag now tons state license plate 185517S

of. 54-Paul

Joansen captioncd "Michard

Burean Filo 210-401762

tno copy, to

resirence was given as tas sercedey sereat, Kochester

How Yorker

This addrose is

also listed as the

residence of Frank's pareuts,

hort t and rile i Frank, and the fomer rosidence of Richard

Franke

Richard

Franks residod at 1ID Christopher Streot

at vich tine ho was contectou by

Buzeau Agents

under the Sr,

Freal tras

ancooporative and noncommnicative wex contacted at this tine.

wife of Richard Frants

is also a security

10012479)

Бurо83

81lc_100-339235.

and Susan Frank: are maintainod

the

Security Inder of

the New York 022ice.

LEA HOE

- Ottawa (100-801)

DUPLICAT

(12)

100-401762 (Richard Cyril Frank)

100-339235 (Susan

Frank)

L04 339235

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit

319

NOT RECORDE NOTE PAGE TWO

107 AUG 20 1962

SECRE

NW 45785 DooId: 32570678 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Airtel

to

SAC

Re: JACK CONAN

Buffalo

100-408305

un possible sigmiricance in this matter is the fact shat

Michard and Susan Frank

traveled to saina

sometine between 1959 and

Lo bera niquesten to wons du the

ostensibly with the approval of the C,

Susan Frank

"Peking Review"

and would be

reimbursed by the CP of China,

the franks reportedly also traveled

elsewhere in burope during this period.

it should be

kept

in mind

that the Cr,

UsA and Cl' ot canada have

infomation

frequently exchanged

by courier aml have received instructions from abroad

Went me as he rother ichard interest ned bate, he conta

identified as

possibly be involved in courier activities,

if not actually involved

in Cr matters,

in the burtalo aren. the possibility should also be

kept in mind that soneone other than

Richar fran, Day have been in possession of

driveway, Toronto, Canada, date not indicated. ](s)

In view of the above land NeP interest in this matter

arrao snollo expeditiously resolye the identity of individua

driving the

above-nentioned vehicle and submit recommendations as

to further investigation in this regant.

Additional copies of this communication are being

furmished New York for Inclusion in their files on Susan and Richard

Frank-

NOTE ®

RCMP. has advised that vehicle bearing New York licenso

195517 was observed in subject's driveray, Toronto, Canada subjec

Subject

reportedly has been

active in CP

6 leaders.

cor a nuncer or years.

facilitated

He was also activ

obtaining passage to spain for members of

the International Brigade

and for obtaining passage for foreign-born canadians returning to

Hungary and other

of NYO

Frank,

It is felt

the above additional investigation should be conducter.

SECRET

HH

45785 DooId: 32570678

Page 2

---

