# docid-32183865

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:.

3/23/2U1

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10239-10075

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

89-43-2897

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

2

SEE FBI 62-109060-2108

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/21/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32183865

15

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 747

"USc "Tiu, Hote).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

/1S12

DECLASSIFIED BY

9803

24-

93....

DIRECTOR, FBI (68-109060)

18/17/63

ENGAT, MEXICO (89-G) (N

14/TIP60

ASSASSINATIOT OF PRESIDENT

ISATIAL

JOIN To

KENNEDY,

11/22/63, DALLAS, TEXAS

Ro San Diego letterhead memorandun of 11/37/83,

which sot forth information received from & State Judicial

Police

agent in lenscals, Baja Calliornia, Mexico, 4o

that during the late President KENNiDY's visit to

Mexico In 1962 Secret Police of Moxico City arrested an

mercan on won they had received intoration to the oftect

that Ce as planning an assassination of KENNEDY in featco. X U

This office was in very close touch with all Mexican

police agencies during the tine of the visit of Prosident

KENNEDY to Mexico, 8/29-7/1/62.

To our knowledge only one

Anoricon was arrested by Menionn authorities suring the course

of thie visit.

this individuat

DAVID JOSEPH ST. JACQUES, ARA,

10t Foesdras, was arrested on 6/30/62 whon he endeavored to

approach the

Presidential automobile in which President KENNEDY

was riding down Reforun Street In Mexico City. It subsoquently

developed that ST. JACQUES was a psychopathic case who fancied

that aid the cancor cases in the United States wore being caused

by the norious fumes being released by chomical factories

he wanted to talk to President INNEDY about this natter.

ST. JACQUES was hold in custody by Mexican authoritieg

until 1/3/62, at which time he was deported frou Morico City

to san Antonio.

Full background on ST. JACQUES was

furnished to U. S. Secret Service representatives while they

were in Mexico Clty.

Information concorning ST. JACQUES will

be found in mylet of 7/6/62 captioned DAVID JOSEPH

ST. JACQUES,

TAC.

Two extra copios of this letter are attached for

forwarding by the Bureau

to Dallas,

oifice of origin,

copy is attached for forwarding to

the San Diego

Office for

Information.

The Mexico City Oliice Investigation In instant natter

is continuing.

SEARCHED

..INDEXED

6 • Bureau

SERIALIZED

...FILED ..

(1 - 4lalson

Section)

(2 - Dallas, 89-13)

GUN AN

Lm 2 5 1906

FBI - DALLAS

Healco Creasified by am2040

CDA:plb

(T)

Exempt from

OS, Category-

Date of DecVassification INDEFINITE

- 43%.

DocId: 32183865

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 U5t 2107 Hoge).

DATE: 11-14-2017

1803.

Do us t (79, 409)

DECLASSIFIED BY

0n.5-84-93

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

12/17/63

LEGAL, MEXICO (89

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN T. KENNEDY,

11/22/63, DALLAS, TEXAS

Re San Diego letterhead memorandum of 11/27/63,

which set forth intomation received fron a State Judicial

Police

agent 1n Mestealt, Baja California, Mexico, to the

effect that during the late President KENNEDY's visit to

Mexico in 1962 Secret Police of Mexico City arrested an

American on whon they had recoived infomation to the effect

that he was planning an assassination of KENNEDY in Mexico.

*(U)

police

This office was in very close touch with all Merlean

agencies during the time of the visit of President

INNEDY to Mexico, 6/29-7/1/62. To our knowledge only one

Amorican was arrested by Merican authoritles during the course

this visit.

approach the Presidentlal autobile in which Prebident KENNEDY

was riding down Reforna Street in Mexico City. It subsequently

developed that ST. JACQUES was a paychopathic case who fancied

that all the cancer cases in the United States were being caused

by the nosious funes being released by chemical factories and

he wanted to talk to President SINNEDY about this matter.

ST. JACQUES waS held

In custody by Mexican authorities

until 7/3/63, at which time he was deported from Mexico City

to san Antonio,

Texas.

Full background on ST. JACQUES was

furnished to U. S. Secret Service representatives while they

were dE Mexico City.

Information concerning ST. JACQUSS will

be found la mylet of 7/6/62 captioned DAVID JOSEMA ST.

JACQUES,

FPC.

Two extra copies of this letter aro

attached for

forwarding by the Bureau

to Dallas, office of origin,

one

copy is attached for forwarding to

the San Diego 02£ice for

information.

is continuing.

The Mesico City Office Investigation in Instant mattez

6 - Bureau

Sure Walson SectiosSONFIDENT

(2 - Dallas, 8913)

= San Diego, Info.) All

CDA: plExempt from Cus

81-43-2897

SEARCHED

... INDEXED.

SERIALIZED

...........FILED ..

060 28 1908

FBI -DALLAS

Date of beelagi cation POETIME

DocId: 32183865 Page 3

---

