# docid-32339411

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/5/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90149-10007

RECORD SERIES : DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 92-568-343

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SHELBURNE

TO :

DE

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/12/1964

2

ANTHONY ZERILLI

VITO GIACALONE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32339411

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection 'Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, DETROIT (22-

GA S0W L. Sh

VITO GIACALANE

February

190%

Due to the sensitive

anture of this

Inferant,

care should be utilized in che disseniation of this

Antornation.

DE 919-Cr advised on Decanber 13, 1963,

that

VIto CICAlLy had been te contact with JOHN SaRA, ot

which time GIACAIONS stated that he had loaned sone money,

approminately pout-ou, to sPiEd (Konwooy, and that then

he could pot pay alt the money back, he had left corn,

and stated that be could not cone back lato toun until

BILLY CIACALONS told hin to.

Bovever, GIACALONE did not

tell SpiRo to Leave and SPIRO agreed with hin about this,

sorever, he had been spreading this internation about town.

According to the Informut,

this individaal

uns laterviewd by Agenta of the rEl at which tine they

asked his about the shylocking business of JOEl SIERA,

horover, SPINO Indiested that ho did not anow SaRRa and

had no connection with hin.

te stated that the only person

that he orod uns CUS nt the Grecian Curdens and he ousd tim

$100.00.

SPIRO also, according to the Informant, had told

BILLX GIACALONS Chat

the Fal me out to got 30m

Bccording to the Informant, VITO GIACALAME told

SINPA that ho le being watched and investigntods and that

ho androm Xialull santed to make sure that he ms not

the em on anyone and grabbing anyone and hurting then in

order to collect money that is oved them.

1 - 92138 (VITO GIACALONE)

92-562 (JOHN SEERA)

- 92-568 (AXFUCKY ZERILLI)

- 137-3462 (SPIRO KOPATOS)

3LS/car

(5)

92-568-343

SEARCHED...

FEB 12 1964

FBI - DETRON

Churchill

d01Hd-10000

DocId: 32339411

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE: 92-438

sus 2

DACTOR

It is zoconnended that the Agent whe te handling

the case on SPIRO IOPATOS be vory discreet in his contaets

with HOPAROS inhenuch as 16 appoors that lie roporte to

VITO GIACALONE hle

contacte with the 201.

- 8-

DocId: 32339411

Page 3

---

