# docid-32356730

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10102-10182

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

nasassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53294 Date:

06-13-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : HOPKINS, CHRIS, CIA

TITLE : ORESTES GUILLERMO RUIZ PEREZ 201-735296.

: 11/01/1976

PAGES

SUBJECTS : MOLEON, JOSE

RUIZ,

GUILLERMO

RUIZ, NILDA

VILLEGAS, HARRY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS • RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/20/93

COMMENTS :

: F22: 1993.07.20.10:40:10:250630 : DUPLICATE

oF 1041010310168

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10102-10182

HH 53294 • DocId: 32356730

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

november 1976

Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez

201-735296

DGI - Photos available

1930 -

Born 10 February, in Cuba.

Primary and secondary education in private

institutions.

Reportedly well-educated

with degree in political economics

University of Havana.

Communist since before Castro; father is

militant Communist.

*

1950's -

1957

1957

RUIZ emigrated to U.S. travelling throughout

East Coast and holding minor jobs.

RUIZ' wife, Nilda VECIANA, lived in New

York for five years in the 1950's: 48th

st., 3 blocks

from Times Square.

RUIZ said he spent five years in the U.s.

(years not stated). See OSMA 26343, 19

June 1970.

RUIZ began to work as an apprentice butcher

for a Polish-American, Alexaader SAMKO,

who had a grocery store on Flagler

"Fruit Center" (grocery, meat market and

fruit store.) RUIZ did so well attracting

Latin-American customers to the store that

he soon began to distribute meat in the

area for SAMKO.

In Miami RUIZ and another Cuban exile, Maj.

Jose Maria MOLEON Carreras, were in contact

with an American of Cuban

descent, known as

oe LOUIs or LUIS

racket in Tampa.

RUIZ said LUIS offered

RUIZ and close associates $800. a month,

car and expenses,

to supervise

in Miami.

LUIS even asked them

man named FERNANDEZ,

who was involved

the numbers game in

Miami, for $5,000 .each.

During the Batista regime, RUIZ was in asylum in Mexico,

involved in the Triple A movement of Dr. Aureliano

SANCHEZ Arango.

13099

HH

53294

DocId: 32356730

Page

---

## Page 3

RUIZ

1958 -

1957/58 -

1959 -

1959-62

1963 -

1964 -

1964

-

HH

53294

Doct: 32356730

Page

3

_ 2 -

RUIZ left Miami in February 1958 with

Harry VILLEGAS Tamayo (contact of PINEDRO,

DGI Chief; also served as guerrilla with

Che GUEVARA in Bolivia) and three other

members of the coth of July movement,

and reportedly entesed Cuba clandestinely.

When RUIZ left Miami in 1958 he reportedly

turned over to his brother (name not noted)

a house in North Miami, a brand new car,

and over a thousand dollars in the bank.

RUIZ, said that he was living. in the U.S-

illegally:

In Havana RUIZ was involved with a group

in sabotage activities;

bom bs

and other terrorist acts, against Batista

regime.

Prior to 1959 RUIZ was reportedly operating

clandestinely in the D.R. trying to over-

throw TRUJILLO regime.

TRUJILLO wanted

to get RUIZ. RUIZ escaped and went to

Chief of Dept. of Construction, Expenses

Studies, Office of Financial Statistics,

Ministry of Treasury. Also reported to

be

1 August - appointed Commercial Counselor

at Cuban Embassy Mexico City.

Reportedly

DGI and

sent there to infiltrate counter-

revolutionary group.s

22 November - RUIZ flew from Mexico City to

Havana.

Returned to Mexic City

on 29 Nov.

January - received correspondence from Andy

BUCKNER, a U.S. citizen.of

Sherman,

who referred to November 1963 info. he had

given RuIZ,

May 1964 - AMMUG-1 reported that RUIZ,

Mexico City, was case officer for CUIS

operations

targetted against some nearb

Appointed Vice-Minister for Economics

of

Ministry of Foreign Trade which he held until

he went to Spain:

Between 63 and 67 RUIZ reportedly held

positions of confidence

in CubanGovt in

the fields of economics and commerce.

---

## Page 4

RUIZ

- 3 -

1957 -

1968 -

1969 -

1970 -

1971 -

December,

RUIZ went to Madrid

as new Cuban

Ambassador.

Had

family with him and

much

money.

Was living high on the hog.

VERVHIGH.

March 18 - David JACOBUS, an American,

contacted RUIZ in Madrid at Cuban Embassy•

(See LIENVOY tapes.)

24 April, RUIZ advised officer at Embassy,

Oristides DIAZ Roverosa, to disguise self

for good organization,

becausehe was already

clandestine.

RUIZ comments that he was

arrested

only once but it was only a joke.

Asile from that, he says they never caught

him.

22 July - Memo for the Record, refers to

RUIZ'

residence in the U.S., Haiti, and

the D.R.

RUIZ arranged camouflaged trip

for ALLENDE.

to Cuba

CIA had Alexander SAMKO go to Madrid in

1970 to

reestablish friendship with

RUIZ.

(Wouldn't surprise me if SAMKO didn't tell

RUIZ of arrangement.)

Shortly thereafter

RUIZ returned to Cuba. We terminated interest

in SAMKO.,

RUIZ was with MINREX office of Scientific

Technoligic Affairs in Havina.

Chris

Hopkins

Task Force "K"

14: 53294 DocId: 32356730

Page

---

