# docid-32289684

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

4/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10201-10460

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-106633-6TH NR 22

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: MILLER, HERBERT J. JR.

TITLE:

DATE : 07/02/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

FCH, ESPAILLAT, ARTURO, PAYOFF ALLEGATION,

TEAMSTERS UNION, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO DOJ

Dotta: 32289684

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 21075

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2012

ECRE

60.00

- Beimont

Sullavan

1 - Fannall

Anplotant Actornoy Gonernl

Diroctor; 703

TAPE: SHOND OEHERNEBIO

ARTURO ESPAILLAT

INTERNAL SECURIZE * DOMINICAN RAZUELIC

July Za 1900

1 - Kleifer

- G. Moore

1 - fittle

62138t,505 manue

Dodo by da dan

JFK

On January 32, 1985, the Attorney Genoral and the Doputy

I that o confidential ond sollabie

sourco had reported that Arture Espedilot,

forner Fondnicen

intolligenco chiel not rcolling la Octava, Conade, One port of th0

late Goneralissino Balsol E. Arijallo"s payolf apparatus along vith

Mannos de Loya;

formor Doninican Antonsador to tho United States.

it tas alleged

that payofio tore mio to baited States offleinis

and sembero of Coagreco.

The sourco alloped that coat as tho

paynonta vore in the form of campaign cantributiono vileh toot

place over a poriod of joars.

It Das

further alleged

that proof

ad euch payments vas them bolieved to ho in Espatilat's potecacion

in Obtata nud the Isanoters Union can negotiating for the purchas

of such prool.

Frank Chaves, Beoretery-Sonsurer, Ionnsters Jo100,

Hocol Pal, San Juan, Puerto Dice, tan roportedly handling tho

It too stated tont tho Tonastore Union dossred Cho lator

nation

vinco that Union mao undor beavy attock by tho Government

ond pooded pil the frionds it could cot.

Ou Juno 20, 19CS, Mr. Thorns Reanolly of your Divialon

Intoned our Dan Juan Offico that he had talked with Lcopoldo tomos

Encos, President, Local 610, Hotel, and Bestnuront Fortere Unica,

ForDer Tonsters

linion ongonizer, tho adviced no sollocs:

Bacos-Ducoo ciated that Judas AraGos, forbor Scandtera

Dason offielal fa

• Eon Juan asos tho too recently falcodad trop a

penitonciary, bud indiested that ho tos going to Canada on Juso 20,

1908, $0 30e

Espoillat about a "deal" in chich ho (drador) couid

mio i lot of money and inferred thnt ho hod coco of the noney in

Mr'. Kennolly to unable to obtain further detaila

fron RaDas Jicoe regarding Chio 6210.

lar. Lonelly roquectod that thie informosco to Sarainbsd

ti, Volter Shoridan of your Division.

\62901

EMPUNE VIES -106022-

i Mani

- New York

105-108633 ta have e rele

revier)

- Ottava

159-504 (Frunk Chavos)

1 - DrO

]

sai.

159-757 (Frank Chavoz)

(18)

89.

SEE

NOTE FOR OTTAVA, PAGE

3.

SEE NOTE, PAGE 2

DocId: 32289684

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aet of 1992 (14 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

6003

Liz: Norbert i. Miller, fT.

NOUS TOB LEGAL AREACE,

OCTAVA:

You ano instructed to naviao your contact in the

Royal Canadion Mountod Police (NCMP) of reported trip o2

Jalmo Anador to Canada on 6/26/63 to goo Japoillat.

20mP shoule

bo roquosted to turnich any information it night recoivo

regarding Anador a contset with Espalllet. (S)

Nett:

On 1/22/63 zooipient offices vere furnlahed

Inforation contoined in parograph one of thie lotter.

Thoy

tore alertod to turnich any further data rocolved da tuturo

watch night pocothly pertula to this information. Ottawa is being

instructod to inform 0018 of Anadoris trip to Canada and to

advioo Logot of any Laformation le night recoive portaintag to .

Amadore contact sath Hopatilas

DocId: 32289684

Page

---

