# docid-32263070

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/2/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10109-10165

RECORD SERIES : NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 013848 (FOLDER 1)

Released under the John

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54653 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: WC

FROM: LEGAT; MEXICO CITY

TO :

DIRECTOR

TITLE:

DATE: 04/05/1964

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :

FBI

RUIZ MEZA, ANASTARIO

OSWALD, LEE; POST RUSSIAN PERIOD; TRAVEL; TRIP TO

MEXICO

DOCUMENT TYPE: CABLE

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Box 242.

v9.1

HH 54653

DocId: 32263070

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Teases

БеІяконя

Mote

Casper

Coirchza

Cossact

Evans

Rose

DECODED COPY

DAIRGRÄM : XX CABLEGRAM

ORADIO O TELETYPE )

Сел?

Crocia

VERY URGENT

4-5-64

TO DIRECTOR

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY

NO. 527•

D.ED

BUFILE 105-82555,

3

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, IS-R-CUBA.

FOLLOWING IS DAILY SUMMARY. "

RE TELEPHONE CALL BY ASSISTANT DIRECTOR SULLIVAN TO LEGAT

APRIL LLASIa.:

. TRANSPORTES DEL NORTE PASSENGER LIST FOR OCTOBER 2 LAST

. BUS FROM MEXICO CITY TO LAREDO DEPARTING 8:30 AM REFLECTS RESERVATION

AND SALE OF TICKET NUMBER 13688 FOR SEAT NUMBER 12, FOURTH

WINDOW SEAT ON LEFT SIDE OF BUS TO "CHIHUAHUENSES, " DETERMINED

•TO BE MEXICO CITY TRAVEL AGENCY, LATTER LOCATED EXCHANGE ORDER

DATED SEPTEMBER 30 FOR SALE OF SEAT NUMBER 12 FOR ABOVE TRIP TO .

H.O. LEE AND INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE ORDER AGAINST WESTERN GREYHOJNO

LINES FOR TRAVEL BY H.O. LEE VIA GREYHOUND BUS FROM LAREDO,

§TEXAS TO DALLAS, SEATS EIGHT AND NINE DIRECTLY IN FRONT OF LEE

WERE ASSIGNED TO JOM. DE CUBA AND WIFE, SEATS 16 AND 17 DIRECTLY

BEHIND HIM ASSIGNED TO VAN DER VORM AND JORGE DAVILA, LATTER.

TRAVELING TO MONTERREY. SEATS 18 AND 19 DIRECTLY ACROSS AISLE

ASSIGNED TO MR. AND MRS. JOSE BARRIGA.

IN FRONT OF LATTER IN

BUS RIVERS FOUR TICKET SALESMEN IS I NORTO

BUS DRIVERS, FOUR TICKET SALESMER

TERMINAL, MEXICO CITY, TRAVEL AGENCY EMPLOXEE ROLANDO BARRIOS,

SECRETO SOLD TRANSPORTATION TO LEE, AND-FOUR EMPLOYEES AT-TRAVEL

Classurd Sy 3002

Exompt lira GiDS Cargo a 9 3

test seen Tige

CO9AG1504

Pro ill ence contined in the sloue me crapto be at aliaseminated ouside the Bureau, Is in gusgenied that is be switabi?

---

## Page 3

Bein

C0354

O AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

XX CABLEGRAM ORADIO TELETYPE;

PAGER THO

FROM MEXICO CITY

NO. 527

AGENCY INTERVIEWED AND UNABLE TO DEFINITELY IDENTIFY PHOTO OF.

OSWALD.

MEXIC.C

• UPON REINTERVIEW TODAY LANASIASIÓ RUIZ

MEZA ADVISED THAT

AFTER CONSIDERING CIRCUMSTANCES OF HIS TRIP AND CONSULTING WITH

•SUPERIOR, TO DETERMINE IF COOPERATION IN THIS MATTER MIGHT BE

INIMICAL HIS BEST INTERESTS HE IS CERTAIN THAT YOUNG AMERICAN

-..

WHO HAD INCIDENT AT KILOMETER 26 IMMIGRATION STATION WAS OSWALD.

HE POSITIVELY IDENTIFIED PROFILE PHOTOS. OF SUBJECT AS AMERICAN

WHO HAD BEEN TAKEN OFF BUS. RUIZ MEZA RECALLS NOTING PRESENCE

OF. OSWALO FIRST TIME AT TRANSPORTES DEL NORTE BUS TERMINAL

RESTAURANT IN MONTERREY DURING PERIOD BETWEEN BUSSES. HE RECALLS

• OSWALD WAS WEARING SHORT SLEEVE LIGHT COLORED SPORTSHIRT AND NO

-COAT.: HE BELIEVES OSWALD OCCUPIED SEAT TO REAR OF BUS AFTER

BUSSES CHANGED IN MONTERREY. HIS EAST RECOLLECTION OF HIM WAS

WHEN THEY BOARDED BUS AT NUEVO LAREDO TO CROSS BORDER AFTER SHORT

STOP THERE. HE RECALLED RETIRED MEXICAN ARMY CAPTAIN AND WIFE

4. WHO WERE TRAVELING TO DALLAS AND THIS INDIVIDUAL IDENTIFIED

THROUGH: INVESTIGATION AS JOSE BARRIGA BERNAL, WHO RESIDES AT

GABINO BARREDO 104, MEXICO CITY. LATTER AND WIFE AWAY FROM MEXICO

CITY TODAY AND WILL 8E INTERVIEWED TOMORROW.

BOTH MEXICO CITY-MONTERREY AND MONTERREY-LAREDO PORTIONS OF

•TICKET NUMBER 13688 LOCATED. TRANSPORTES DEL NORTE MAINTAINS NO

PASSENGER MANIFESTS FOR MONTERREY-LAREDO RUN.

HOTEL DEL COMERCIO EMPLOYEES AND SIX GUESTS WHO WERE AT HOTEL

Il the inte

paraphras

contained in the above messase la lo de disseminated outside the Bureau, it is sugsested that is be suisebly

lo protect the Bureau's cryprographic

---

## Page 4

DECODED COPY

Моки

cargon

Cailoson

0751

LZA8

Rosen

DAIRGRAM

*x CABLEGRAM DRADIO: TELETYPE,

Te!o.

Holena

Candy

• PAGÈS THREE':

FROM MEXICO CITY

NO. 527

DURING SAME-PERIOD OR PORTION THEREOF AS OSWALD HAVE BEEN LOCATED

AND INTERVIEWED WITHOUT DEVELOPING NEW INFO.: INVESTIGATION TO

IDENTIFY, LOCATE AND INTERVIEW OTHERS IN PROGRESS.

TWENTY TWO SOURCES HAVE BEEN INTERVIEWED RE H.O. LEE TRAVEL

AND INVESTIGATION TO IDENTIFY AND LOCATE OTHER PASSENGERS ON

BUS CONTINUING. TEN SOURCES ACTUALLY CONNECTED WITH HOTEL DEL

¡COMERCIO HAVE BEEN INTERYIEWED AND NUMEROUS INTERVIEW'S TOWARD

LOCATING OTHER GUESTS HAVE BEEN CONDUCTED.

ABOVE INFO AND ALL OTHER RELATED THERETO SHOULD BE CLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL TO PROTECT BUREAU'S OPERATIONS IN FOREIGN COUNTRY,

AS IN INTERESTS OF THOROUGHNESS BUT AT SOME RISK TO SECURITY OF

OPERATIONS HERE. BUAGENTS HAVE BEEN CONDUCTING ALL INTERVIEWS

RATHER THAN USING ESTABLISHED INFORMANTS. FAILURE TO CLASSIFY

THIS INFO MIGHT RESULT AT SOME FUTURE DATE IN UNCOVERING DIRECT

PARTICIPATION HERE OF BUAGENTS.

CLARK D. ANDERSON

+5,

RECEIVED:

1-6-64

12:05 AM

EFH

no chie da

*ere balli or colo pred in the doe rape a ta lee nated deside the Bureau, it in austested that is be suit ails

---

