# docid-32291673

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10207-10449

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-130061-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEG, OT

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/22/1964

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32291673

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records ColTection Act of 1992 (11 USC 210T Hote):"

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

4/27/64

TEC 107 702

105- 130061 -

To: Legal Attasha, Ottage

Pres: Difootor, FBI

VLADIMIR RODRIGUEZ LAMERA

IS = CUBA

DIDERICO PETERSSIN BARBETO

IS • CUBA

CIA HAS NO OBJECTIONTO Mollias

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE UF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. MKH 6-2-98

SL0/KSR 8-31-98 (JFK)

0/6/95

Classified by S668 SL0/GCL

Declassify on: OADR JFK

AUL IAPORMAZIOR CONTAINAI

HEREIN LS UNCLASGIFTED

EXCEPT WHORE SHOWN

ASIMUTHIO

sourcabs (4/21/64) soncernisg saptioned nabjects.

The only references identifiable with Rodrigues Lahera

1n Buffles 18 containod 1n a CIA Infornation Report dated 8/31/39,

olsssifled "Booret" and entitled "Offloors and Nesconnissioned

Officers Assigned to Cuban Revolutionary Department of Investigationg.

First Lloutonant Vadialr Rodriguez Lahers mas doserlbed as Chiel

of the Gambling Bureau of &be"

Bevolutienry Departsent ot

-Invest1gat1008 (DIR) BE 01 1/39/59. "This Information orIginatod,

according to CIA, Iron a rebel Olficer vith escollent contacte 1a

revolutionary security aireles.

И)

UL) A CIA Internation soport dated 7/8/88, leastfled "Becret

ontitled

"Parsonnel of the Ministry of foralga Trade" contain

internstion attributed to & Cuban vith comercial tralalag sio 1a

in official on a planniar staft la she cabs Miniatry of

This souree

2997

DED

COPY FILED IN

addrass:- Cubenetal

CP lotter 8/89/69515

slatters - Cuba letod

Diderdoe Fotoraser

possessing Pe

pert Nonber D/68/197

1118at 10. 813 valen erry e Sa/Canda

320L

un Cabana Asslines

8/ V63.(5)

The bureal de vory such interested in the data which w1ll

Tolson

In fortheaning fres the

Belmont

Well ApE

Casper! • Feroign Liatson Dalt (Route

Conrad

Delo AH: gc1

well thr

Evans (7)

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

08 maY 5

55

MAILED 30

APR& 7 1964

COMM-FBI

SEX HOTE PAGE THO

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

-M SECRED

DocId: 32291673

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

Airtal so Ottera

80:

PLADIMIR RODRIGUEZ LATERA

RE: DIDIRICO PETERS&IN BARBITO

IntOrOstod 11 KRoNing 18 they daTo any 810-108 V1Eh Cuban

Intolliganes notivition Alroctod against the U. B. or vitA any

Individusle currently or fOruarly la la V. B. Who have angaged

In 2nt011180n00 set101t109 da bahall el the prozent Cuban

dovermisat.

No are most anxion to boes up our severage at tha

Cuban Mission to the in sad any data subjosts sight passass

sencerning the satual sinologies al Cubans ansignod there nonld

Do el vital interest.

The peeseasion of a sales passpert by

Rodriguar Labora do ol unusual interest and vo, al scurso,

veuld like to knea dull dotalle consorning LamMaso ol 18 and

astont al this praction by Cabar Corerument (S)

11 fossiblo and prestioablo, sot basle summary of data

evallablo to scup upon which to alght set er set out londs and

sadlen vith complete istalls then huni Ia la a posItIon to maJe

then availablo.

iron dats surnlahad you by leilp so dato 1t vould

APPORT SIS AUDIOCTS SUPTOBODY ONSELLONT SOUFOOR SOF PROVIdING

current inforustion regardian sattors ol intell1zane0 Interent

80 Mentore NomisphoTo Intelllgance agosion. (5)

aotrigues dafortod to Canade et Fal1fas, Fova Scotis,

o 7/81/61 after arriving there on & Cubana fl1ght under an

BR9uRedl sana. POtOrISOn MAs CuDRA Trado Consul at Montreal lor

four monthe prior to 4/81/64 shen he dofected. RCHP bas promisod

to keep un adriand ol any data of intolligence laterest to the

u. S. and has upsetfieally indleated ft sill ralay any question

Do might karo to be put to potoreson] ir. larold Spenden ai CIA E

adrizad SA S. J. Papich on 4/83/64 that CIA 1z sanding sensone

098035

•8.

DocId: 32291673

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Re

DATE: 11-14-2017

• AIRGRAM

DECODEDICOPY

XX CABLEGRAM

RADIO

TELETYPE

2147 Hotel:

Casper

Callahan

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotte

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

URGENT 4-22-64

TO DIRECTOR

FROM LEGAT C

PIF AWA NO

9-1

6-1

ALSO KNOWNAS

INTERNAL SECURITY

VLADIMIR RODRIGUEZ

LAHERA, AKA VICENTE RAMIREZ LOPEZ, ES-CUBA.

THIS DATE REMP ADVISEE SUBJECT BORN HAVANA FEBRUARY 6. 1937

SOUGHT ASYLUM HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTLA FROM HAVANA TO PRAGUE CUBANA

FLIGHT APRIL 210

TRAVELING ON CUBAN DIPLOMATIC PASSPORT UNDER

ASSUMED NAME OF VICENTE RAMIREZ LOPEZ AND HAD IN POSSESSTON ..

OTHER FALSE PASSPORT AND OVER $2500 US. CLAIMS EMPLOYED CUBAN

INTELLIGENCE SERVICE WORKING ON EL SALVADOR DESK AND APPARENTLY

HAS KNOWLEDGE COMMUNIST AGENTS IN LATIN AMERICA AND HAS IN

POSSESSION DOCUMENTS RELATING TO WORK. ALSO CLAIMS WORKED UNDER

MINISTER OF INTERIOR IN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE FOR EIGHT MONTHS A

TRAVELED TO MEXICO FOR 10 DAYS THIS YEAR INTERVIEWING ON

INTÉLLIGENCE MATTERS. NO OTHER TRIPS ABROAD. SERVED AS CAPTAIN

IGUBAN ARMY 1959 TO 1961. WIFE LUISA RESIDES APARTMENT 4, COIMAR

HAVANA (S

ESUBJECE BEING. BROUGHT OTTAWA FOR DEBRIEFING AND LEGAT WILL

BE KEPT ADVISED OF-ALL PERTINENT INFORMATION RECEIVED. RCMP ADVISED

SUBJECT INTENDS APPLY FOR VISA TO USA AND HAS BROTHER-IN-LAW,

PABLO RODRIGUEZ, 2502 WEST SOUTHWEST EIGHTH STREET IN MIAMI

LIA ADVISED LOCALL.. JEE(U)

/ 105-130091

PROSELEE INNES A

RECEIVED: 5:21 PM RDR

MCT 21

EE ROYAL GANADIAN MOUNTRO POLICE (S)

APA 291904

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

3RD CC: MR. BRENNAN

RELCASE UT. GIA INFOHMANON

IN THIS DOCUMENT. MKH 6-2-98 din

6.cs.

anion

5LD /KSR.

544139646

Se: 31.98:8

(JFK)

If the intelligence contained in thi

above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

20/95

HEROIW IS UNCLASSIFIED

Classified by 5668 Sto/Ga

EXCEVD WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SECRET

Declassify -on: OADRIK)

DocId: 32291673 Page 4

---

