# docid-32291278

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10207-10054

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-29-653

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

04/16/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING, OC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32291278 Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. -12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

4/16/63

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

dol

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (92-515)

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INTELIIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

PCI, advised that he recently talked

to a motel operator on motel strip in Dade Co., Fla., who was

weighing the "pros and cons" as to whether or not he should

pay $400.00 a month year round to some Dade Co. Sheriff

Deputies or a "bag man" for the Dade Co. Sheriff's Office

relative to operating a bookmaking and gambling set up,

without interference at his motel (Miami File 92-812).

MM 665-C related that LOU CHESLER, a millionaire

and a big gambler, recently secured his son-in-law, MEL

HARRIS, a job with a stock brokerage firm in New York City,

where he reportedly is a customer's man. CHESLER's daughter,

over a year ago, married MEL HARRIS, son of ALLIE HARRIS, a

hoodlum, who is a gambler, bookmaker and dice game operator,

who was considered part of the MICHAEL COPPOLA group (Miami

File 92-101).

C Go wick

Approved:

This source also advised that he had received

information that NICHOLAS DI COSTANZO (Miami File 92-864)

is a close friend of VINCE DE MEO, a contractor, and bankrolls

DE MEO in some construction projects. He also advised that

he heard DI COSTANZO and DE MEO are often seen together at

the North Dade Country Club.

62-9-39-653

Bureau (AM)

-

Miami

RFF: mgw; *

ADA

REG- 34

₴ APR 18 1963

4 ES TH

105

Special Agent phill

Sent

_М Рег

NW 45760 DocId: 32291278 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

MM 92-515

MM 509-C-TE advised that MILTON SPITZER's true

name is MILTON SPENCER (Miami 165-211); that SPITZER gave

up the gambling and bookmaking operation at the Miami Beach

Raly Club after two weeks; that SPITZER is now associating

with NAT FARBER (Miami File 92-118) on a daily basis and it

is rumored FARBER is bankrolling SPITZER in his gambling,

bookmaking and shylock operations.

This source also advised that on 3/23/63, JOE

INDELICATO (Miami File 92-404) spent almost five hours with

SAMMY WEISS at the Patio Bridge Club, Miami Beach, in an

effort to secure a loan of $25,000 from WEISS. INDELICATO

was heard to say that he could nottake "No" for an answer and

was heard pleading with WEISS for the money. Near the end

of their meeting, WEISS finally agreed to loan INDELICATO the

money.

Comment was made that INDELICATO needed the money

because he was in bad with the "boys" up north.

MM 509-C-TE also advised that WILLIE BAKER, operator

of a gambling establishment in New York City, and now part

owner of the Patio Bridge Club, Miami Beach, who is currently

in Las Vegas, has reportedly secured a "solid OK" to start

big-time gambling at the Patio Bridge Club the next winter

season and, as a result, has been remodeling to take care of same.

- 2-

"NW 45760 DocId: 32291278

Page 3

---

