# docid-32326709

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90056-10016

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

183-737-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SF

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/02/1976

6

SALVATORE AMARENA

SAMMY PAXTON

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

TT

v9.1

DocId: 32326709

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

'Released under the John f. kennedy AssasSination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 111-14-2017

Assoc.

Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm

COMMNUCATIONS SECTION

JUL 0 2 1976

Dep.-A.D.-Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Affairs

SF 036

11226

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. InV. --

TELETYPE

Ident.

Inspection .

Intell. --

Laboratory

Legal Crun.

Plan. & Eval.

NR D12 SF CODE

Rec. Mgint.

Spec. Inv

6:22

PM NITEL 7/2/76

RRH

Training

Telephone

RM.-

TO:

DIRECTOR,

FBI

FROM:

SACA

SAN FRANCISCO (183-114) (P)

SALVATORE AMARENA TARAS ET AL; RICOS 0OS SAN FRANCISCO.

RE SAN FRANCISCO NITEL IO BUREAU DAIED JUNE 15,3

SF 8677-PC HAS FURNISHED INFORMATION ON A CONTINUING BASIS

TO THE SAN FRANCISCO DIVISION SINCE MAY 27, 1976, AND THE BELOW

PARAGRAPHS ARE A BRIEF SUMMARY. OF INFORMATION FURNISHED.

Director Sec'y

- 1=3

IN REGARD TO TEAMSTER ACTIVITY, PO ADVISED THAI JIMMY

FRATIANNO MEETS ON A REGULAR BASIS AT SAL'S PIZZA PARLOR WITH

RUDY THAM, A LOCAL SAN FRANCISCO TEAMSIER OFFICIAL GEORGE

SNYDER, A TEAMSTER OFFICIAL FROM LOCAL 8D6, 27 BROAD HOLLOW

ROAD, MELLEVILLE, NEW YORK, RECENTLY SPENT AN HOUR AND A HALF

AT SAL'S PIZZA PARLOR IN A MEETING WITH JIMMY FRATIANNO AND RUDY

THAM. MEETINGS HAVE ALSO BEEN HELD AT THE HILTON HOTEL AND

SAL'S PIZZA PARLOR INVOLVING RUDY THAMS JIMMY FRATIANNO AND

SEVERAL AUSTRALIANS WHO ARE BELIEVED TO BE CONNECIED WITH THE

TRANSPORTATION WORKERS IN AUST

183--13

22 JUL 8

1976

IN REGARDS TO

PRATIANO'S TRAVELS, ESPECIALLY GONE POALANGELES AREAS WHERERE

58 JUL 271976

7-325

DocId: 32326709 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• SF 1'83-114

PAGE TWO

FRATIANNO IS BEING SURVEILLED BY THE LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPART-

MENI, INTELLIGENCE UNII AND LOS ANGELES FBI OFFICE. IN LATE

MAY, 1976, FRATIANNO TRAVELED TO THE LOS ANGELES AREA WHERE HE

MET PORNOGRAPHER MICKEY FINE AND LCN MEMBERS ALLEN SMILEY

AND JOHN ROSELLI. IN EARLY JUNE, 1976, FRATIANNO AGAIN RETURNED

TO THE LOS ANGELES AREA AND MET WITH TOP WEST COAST LON

FIGURES LOUIS I. DRAGNA, FRANK BOMPONSIERO AND MIKE RIZZATELLI.

ACCORDING TO PC, FRATIANNO INTENDS TO TRAVEL TO NEW YORK,

CHICAGO AND CLEVELAND WITH MIKE RIZZATELLI IN THE NEAR FUTURE,

PURPOSE OF THE TRIP IS UNKNOWN AT THIS IIME. PC ADVISED IHAT

FRATIANNO WAS VISIBLY UPSET WHEN HE READ A NEWSPAPER ARTICLE

CONCERNING THE TEAMSTER UNION ACIIVITIES OF TONY PROVENZANO.

IN REGARDS IO PORNOGRAPHY, THE PC ADVISED THAI ON SEVERAL

OCCASIONS FRATIANNO HAS MET AT SAL'S PIZZA PARLOR WITH WELL

KNOWN SAN FRANCISCO NIGHTCLUB AND NUDE ENCOUNTER PARLORS

OWNERS LARRY NISSINOFF AND SAM CONTI. IT IS BELIEVED THAT

FRATIANNO MAY BE USING NISSINOFF AND CONTI TO MAKE

AN INROAD INTO THE MASSAGE PARLOR BUSINESS WHICH IS CURRENTLY

DocId: 32326709

Page

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SF 183-114

PAGE THREE

CONTROLLED IN THE SAN FRANCISCO AREA BY RON LONDON. AS NOTED

ABOVE, FRATIANNO HAS ALSO MET RECENTLY WITH WELL KNOWN LOS

ANGELES PORNOGRAPHER MICKEY FINE. SAL AMARENA HAS ADVISED PC

THAT FRATIANNO AND NOTORIOUS TOPLESS - BOITOMLESS NIGHTCLUB

OWNER PHIL MAIIA HAD BEEN AITEMPTING TO OBTAIN PORNOGRAPHIC

MOVIES FROM BOTH MICKEY FINE AND LOCAL SAN FRANCISCO BOOKMAKER

AND PORNO DEALER CARL ECKSIEIN® PC ADVISED THAT FRATIANNO HAS

DISCUSSED OBTAINING CONIROL OF PORNOGRAPHY INDUSTRY IN THE SAN

FRANCISCO AREA WITH THE ABOVE MENTIONED INDIVIDUALS.

PC HAS ADVISED AND IT HAS BEEN ESTABLISHED THROUGH

SURVEILLANCE PHOTOGRAPHS THAT LOCAL BOOKMAKERS PAT COCO AND

FAT CHARLIE (IN CHARLIE HOFFMAN ARE FREQUENT VISITORS TO SAL

AMARENA'S PIZZA PARLOR. SURVEILLANCE PHOTOGRAPHS HAVE ALSO

ESTABLISHED THAT A NUMBER OF BOOSTERS ON A REGULAR BASIS ARE

CARRYING STOLEN GOODS AND MATERIALS INTO SAL'S PIZZA PARLOR

SUBSTANTIATING THE FACT THAT AMARENA IS A KNOWN FENCE IN THE

TENDERLOIN AREA OF SAN FRANCISCO. LI

PC PURCHASED A STOLEN REVOLVER

FROM AMARENA ON JUNE 10, 1976, WHICH WAS IMMEDIATELY ENTERED

DocId: 32326709

Page

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 14-14-2017

SF 183-114

PAGE JOUR

INTO

„THE SAN FRANCISCO POLICE DEPARIMENI EVIDENCE VAULI.

PC HAS ADVISED THAT FRATIANNO IS VISITING HER APARTMENT

MORE FREQUENILY AND IS BEGINNING TO USE HER TELEPHONE

TO MAKE VARIOUS COLLECT BUSINESS CALLS AROUND THE COUNTRY.

PC ADVISED THAI ON JUNE 21, 1976, WHILE VISITING AT PC'S

APARIMENT, FRATIANNO MADE A TELEPHONE CALL AND IMMEDIATELY

AFTER CALL, TOLD HER HE HAD JUST TALKED TO FORMER SAN FRANCISCO

MAYOR JOSEPH ALIOTO. PC OVERHEARD A PORTION OF THIS TELEPHONE

CALL AND ADVISED THAT IT WAS IN REGARD TO THE PASSING OF MONEY

AND THAT FRATIANNO TOLD ALIOTO TO TELL SOMEONE HE HAS HAD

II. SHORTLY AFTER HAVING CLAIMED IO SPEAK WITH ALIOTO

FRATIANNO CALLED RAY (LNW "IN PHILADELPHIA AND DISCUSSED THE

SAME GENERAL SUBJECIS WITH RAY. PC ADVISED THAT FRATIANNO

FEELS RELAXED AND SECURE AT HER APARIMENT AND ANTICIPATES

THAT FRATIANNO WILL BE USING HER APARIMENT AND TELEPHONE MORE

FREQUENILY IN THE NEAR FUTURE.

PC ADVISED THAT JIMMY FRATIANNO AND PHIL MAITA ARE

CURRENTLY TRYING TO PROMOTE A SHOW AT THE SAN FRANCISCO COW

PALACE STARRING LIZA MINELLI.

DocId: 32326709

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SF 183-114

P

FIVE

'ON MAY 21, 1976, PC ADVISED THAI FORMER HEAVYWEIGHT

BOXER OSCAR BONEVENA WAS INTRODUCED TO HER BY SAL AMARENA

AT SAL'S PIZZA PARLOR AND SAL TOLD PC THAT BONEVENA HAD

ACCOMPANIED THE WIFE OF NEVADA VICE LORD JOE CONFORTE TO

SAN FRANCISCO FOR A SHOPPING TRIP. THE PRESENCE OF BONEVENA

AT SAL'S PIZZA PARLOR IWO DAYS BEFORE HE WAS KILLED AT THE

MUSTANG RANCH NEAR RENO, NEVADAS WAS VERIFIED IHROUGH

SURVEILLANCE PHOTOGRAPHS.

ON JUNE 28, 1976, FRATIANNO VISITED PC'S APARIMENT FOR

APPROXIMATELY TWO AND ONE HALF HOURS DURING WHICH ELECTRONIC

SURVEILLANCE WAS UTILIZED. WHILE AT PC'S APARIMENI, IT WAS

DETERMINED THROUGH ELECIRONIC SURVEILLANCE THAT FRATIANNO

ADVISED THAT HE HAD A DEAL GOING WHICH INVOLVED FOUR TO FIVE

MILLION DOLLARS AND HE WANTED A FEE OF AT LEAST $4,500 TO

$5, DOD FROM THREE UNKNOWN SUBJECIS FOR WHOM HE LOCATED THE DEAL.

IT WAS ALSO LEARNED THAT FRATIANNO WANIED TO PUT THE OWNER OF

A COMPANY EMPLOYING 30D PEOPLE IN TOUCH WITH SOMEONE THAT COULD

HELP HIM IN REGARD TO THE ABOVE MATTER, HE TALKED OF A

DocId: 32326709

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC. 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SF 183-1,14

GE SIX

"STARTING HOURLY WAGE OF $3.50 PER HOUR, A FOUR-DAY WORK

WEEK AND MENIIONED A PENSION®

FRATIANNO ADVISED PO THAT HE, MIKE (PROBABLY MIKE

RIZZATELLI AND PHIL MAITA WERE TRAVELING TO RENO, NEVADA

AND WOULD BE GONE FOUR DAYS. HE TOLD PC HE MAY OR

MAY NOT GO TO NEW YORK.

BOTH THE PC AND FRATIANNO DISCUSSED THE FENCING

ACIIVITIES OF SAL AMARENA AND FRATIANNO ADVISED HE HAD

BOUGHT CAMERAS AND JEWELRY FROM AMARENA.

SAN FRANCISCO IS CONTINUING INVESTIGATION OF FRATIANNO

AND ASSOCIATES FOR POSSIBLE RICO VIOLATIONS.

END.

i ,

DocId: 32326709

Page 7

---

