# docid-32272624

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER:

180-10144-10337

RECORD SERIES:

CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 35-06-12A

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: BLAKEY, G. ROBERT

TO:

BRECKINRIDGE, SCOTT

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/11/1978

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

CIA, FILES

LETTER

Unclassified

1A; 1B

Redact

08/23/1995

Box 26

Ww 53080 DocId: 32272624

Page 1

Date:

4/14/201

Released under the John

F. Kennedw

ussassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Motel.

Case#:NU 53080 Date:

06-05-2017

---

## Page 2

• p.

LOUIS STOXES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHÁRDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL L. D

CHIO

"WALTER ESAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART B. NO INNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE: BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THIONE, NESH.

HAROLD 5- JAWYER, MICH.

ET ASTOPHER J. DOOD, CONN

HÄROLD E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD S, FITHIAN, ID.

ROBERT W, EDGAR, PA.

0L9 2 2 24/75

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Bepresentatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

$ I JUL 1978

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator/HSCA

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C.

20505

Dear Mr. Breckinridge:

In connection with this Committee's investigation into the

circumstances surrounding the death of President John E. Kennedy,

we respectfully request access to any and all files or documents

concerning or referring to the following individuals:

ANI. LICOOKIE/1

nN2. Lynn Duran (aka Lydia Duran)

mr3. Eunice Odio

N4. TICHBORN

nN5.

LICHANT/1

716.

General Jose Jesus Clark Flores

iN.

Emillo Carballido

hr8.

LIRING/3

1vg.

Manuel Calvillo

attt10.

Charles Thomas

nil.

June Cobb

n12.

LIHUFF/1

n113.

LITAMIL/7

114.

LITAMIL/ 9

n115.

Victor Rico Galan

1^16.

Noe Palomares

Joaquin Cisneros

We are aware that some of the above-listed individuals have

been the subject of prior requests.

We now respectfully request

that the files on the above individuals be given the highest

priority.

As some of the information contained in this letter was

derived from classified CIA files, you may desire to classify the

letter appropriately.

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely,

Sober Blame

G.

Robert Blakey

GRB : mgm

Chief Counsel and Director

NW 53080 DooId: 32272624 Page 2

---

