# docid-32404138

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10331-10008

RECORD SERIES : JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : MOSKOWITZ. D/CONGRESS. AFFAIRS

TO : DCI

TITLE : MEMO: DCI TESTIMONY ON JEK ASSASSINATION MATERIALS

DISCLOSURE ACT

DATE: 05/08/1992

PAGES :

2

SUBJECTS : JEK ASSASSINATION

CIA-FBI DISAGREEMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET-

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 04/23/03

COMMENTS

:

JFK-M-16: F1: 2000.02.07.10:17:35:170054

W/ATT

1 PG MEMO

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10331-10008

HH 53217

DocId:32404138

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OCA 2080-92

8 MaY 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Director of Central Intelligence

FROM:

Stanley M. Moskowitz

Director of Congressional Affairs

SUBJECT:

DCI Testimony, on JFK Assassination

Materials Disclosure Act

1. You and FBI Director Sessions are scheduled to testify

on 12 May before the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee at a

hearing on S.J. Res. 282, the "Assassination Materials Disclosure

Act of 1992.*

Your appearance will follow a congressional panel

of witnesses consisting of Senators Boren and Specter (who was a

counsel to the Warren Commission) and Congressman Stokes. The

Committee will conclude its hearing with a panel of witnesses

consisting of Professor Ernest May, of Harvard's Kennedy School

of Government; History Professor Athan Theoharis, of Marquette

University: and James Lesar, President of the locally based

Assassination Archive and Research Center.

Your opening

statement with your suggested revisions has been provided to OMB

for Administration coordination.

2.

The Department of Justice will not be sending a witness

to testify before the Committee.

The Committee has requested

that the Department at least send a representative to assist

Director

Sessions, who does not intend to address major policy

and legal issues

raised by the joint resolution.

Senator Glenn

will

not ask you to comment on

the constitutional objections to

the joint resolution raised by the Department of Justice, but

other Members of the Committee, such as Senator Levin, may raise

these issues.

3.

You should be aware that there is a disagreement between

CIA and the FBI regarding what constitutes assassination

materials.

We have taken the position that all the sequestered

House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) materials

constitute assassination material.

FBI Director Sessions

has

taken

the position in his opening statement that assassination

material should include only "core" records directly related to

the assassination le.g., records on Oswald and Ruby) and that an

additional 265,000 pages of material requested by the HSCA

covering oranized crime and

other criminal investigations should

not be considered assassination material since it does not sheà

any light on who killed Kennedy. It is likely that you and

Director Sessions will be asked

about these differing positions,

so you may wish to discuss

this

with Director Sessions in

advance.

Stanley M. Moskowitz

1N 33211 Do010:32404138 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

TABLE OF CONTENTS

A. OPENING STATEMENT (WITH COPY OF CHART)

B. SESSIONS STATEMENT

C. Q's & A's

D. GLENN LETTER CONFIRMING DCI TESTIMONY

E. CIA VIEWS LETTER TO OMB

F. CIA LETTERS TO SENATOR GLENN & REPRESENTATIVE

CONYERS

G. JUSTICE VIEWS LETTER TO REPRESENTATIVE CONYERS

(similar letter was sent to Senator Glenn on Senate Resolution)

H. MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD ON CONYERS HEARING

I. SURVEY OF CIA MISCA HOLDINGS (S)

J. DECLASSIFICATION GUIDELINES

K. SENATE RESOLUTION (S.J. RESOLUTION 282)

L. MEMBERSHIP OF SENATE COMMITTEE ON

GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

SECRET

NW 53217

DooId: 32404138

Page 3

---

