# docid-32366704

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY - CIA

RECORD

NUMBER : 104-10134-10015

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the Johr

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 53294 Date:

06-14-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

: NOBLE, JOHN D., SPECIAL AGENT

*HEADQUARTERS

: MEMO RE YURI NOSENKO #262622 -

: 03/11/1964

SUBJECTS

: OSWALD, LEE

YURI, NOSENKO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/05/93

COMMENTS: JFK48 : F17/3: 1993.08.05.08:18:39:370037

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10134-10015

SECRET

-2-

---

## Page 2

SECRET

TO BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE OULX

Dlotrict Fleld Office

11 March 1964

MEMORAI DUM FOR:

Headquarters

SUBJECT

LESNIK, George M. (A

1/262 622

C SD/1

1.. Referonce is made to leadquarters letter of ascignment in

this case dated 4 March 1964.

2. During the porlod 20-28 Fabruny 1964, while SUBJECT was

under the protective custody of Spocial. Agente

Stanley C. IACH,

George R. BREVER and Alfred B. McGARRACITY, SUEJECT voluntarily

nuriched information concerning his background and activitics,

as vell as other infornation of operatlonal interest, the substance

of which is cet forüh in the sueceoding paragraphs.

It is to be

noted that at no time did any of the above-named agents solicit

any of this infomution or male inquiries of the SUPDiCT regarding

any of the matters discussed by him. SUBJECT spontaneously related

these incidents in cacual conversation during leiture periods and

hile enroute with the agents to and from places of entertainment

In most cases newspapers, magazines and TV prograns prompted the

SUBJECI to make comments relative to these matters. Following 1s

a summarization of this Intoration:

SPORTS, HOBBIES

(a) On 20 February 1964 SUBJECT disclood that he enjoys the

following sports: football, hockey and billiardo.

vicinity at the

(b) He aleo revealed that he hop previously been in the United

States vhile enroute to Cuba, Venezuela and other Intin Americon

countries. He has at one time or nother during hin service vith the

KCB violtod and vorled on oporational projects for the Soviet Unton

In practically all of the countrtes of Europe; hovever, he his never

SECT

N7 53294 DocId:32366704 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SEGRET

LEITK, George Mo. (A)

1/262 622 C SD/1

traveled to the Far East, except while handling an ugent who was

active against the Japanese.

He (SUBITCT) stayed In the Kurtle

Islands nich are within sight of Japan. This was in 1949. He

said that he was active in the picking up of agents by plane and.

chip In this area.

FAKELY BACKGROUND

(c) In the latter part of the evening on this came date,

20 February 1964, the SUBJECT stated that his father was a member

of the Comuntst Central Comnittee, one of the first members of

the Conmuniet Farty, and that he had great respect for his father.

The SUBJECT also indicated that his father was a shipbuilder and

later became one of the first to organize and pet uy the Russian

Atonte Energy Plant.

It was during this latter aculvity that ha

(the SUBJECT's father) and three other officiale came in contact

vith radiation, which affected his father's Ilver and a few years

Inter at the uge of 54 his father died of cancer.

The SUBJECT

vent on to state that his father, being a very proninent Communist,

vas given treatment for this cancer in a special hospital which 1s

located in the hills outside of the city of Moscow, and during his

tenure in this hospital the family resided with his father,

They

had five roon llving quarters beside the room in which his father

vas confined. This privilege, he said, is only given to the especially

prominent VIPs of the Communict Party,

indicating that his father vas

one of the top men In the Communist Farty.

LOLITARY ACTIVILY

(d) The SUBJECT revealed that in 1949, at the nge of 16, he vas

a Naval Cadet.

He was called into the service before graduating from

what is our equivalent of a high

school. He had takon part in the

eighing in the Black Sea Arca where he

deseribed hand-to-hand combat

with Cermine, claimed he was wounded, and because of his bravery he

vas avarded the Soviet Order Medal and the Ordor of Stalin.

The CUBJECT

stated this was unusual for a person of his age and cained him creat

respect.

At the end of the war he had no more dectre for military life

although his cuperiors tried to keep him in the milltary. Instead, he

vent for four years to the Institute of Foreign Relutions and learned

the English language. Upon graduation, a man come to him and told him

that ho had a job lined up for him.

He stated that this actually tao

more like being ordered to take this particular job which tumod out

SECRET

HH 53294 DocId:32366704 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

ISNIK, George M. (A)

1262 622 C SD/1

to be with the Naval Intelligence. Ic claimed that there vere

tvo

military intelligence organizations at the time, the laval and

the

Ground Force military type.

LEO OSWALD IN RUSSIA

(e) On 23 February 1964, as SUBJECT approached the table for

the evening meal, he noted that the time magazine lying on the coffee

table in the living room had a picture of Marie OSWALD.

As he sat

down he hit the table with his flot and sald, "I feel that I could

have stopped OSWALD", At this point Spoolel Agent Stanley C. INCH

asked him

• He proccoded to otate that he (SUBJRCT) was head

of the KGD Tourict and Visitors Section which kept control over the

activitles of OSWALD while ho vas in the Soviet Union. He caid at

the cine, OSWALD me of no special concom or intorest to the KGB

because he lacked Intelligence backeround, Therciore, when he applica

nor permission to leave hucala, they (KOB) under his (SUBJECT) direction

Informed OSWATD that he vould have to make his appliention through the

appropriate chonnels of the State Department, who in um would request

his rolcace from the Rugsian counterparts in handling of visas. This

ho caid vas nil done for propaganda and show priporer. He vent on to

slato that if they roally vanted to zelenso OSWALD, it could have been

done on the spur of the moment, but since OSWALD had nothing and vas

not worth anything, they docided that this was an opportunity to show

the Americon State

Department that they did not mind releasing Individ-

uals if they applied for release through the appropriate channels.

Prior to this application for velence of OSVAID, the SUBJUCT stated

that since he was of no partieular interent to them and there was

nothing in Moscow that they could ute him for or place him into, they

decided that they would send CoMe to lingk where he would be placed

ta a factory working on radios in the hope that some training in the

electrical and electronic field might moult in his development into

an electronies engindor; hovever, he choved no capability in this field.

The SubMCr then stated that it ran just at this period, before sending

OSTED to Mtusk, that a very dirange thing happoned.

cance sas supped to luve a natine with a travel peent to reari

to preparations for his going to Minck at 4 o'clock In the afternoon.

At 6 o'clock he still did not report to the travel agent, so the travel

agent decided to co to the hotel where OSWALD was staying to see if he

could locate hin.

When he got to the hotel he asked the clerk if OSWALD

NN 53294 DocId:32366704 Page 4

SECRET

-3-

---

## Page 5

SECRET

LESNIK, George M. (4)

1262 622

SD/1.

Ile knocked, got no response, and then with the assistance of the cle k

they broke

Into the roon and found OSWAID lying across the bed vith boch

or his wrists slashed.

The travel agout and the clork responded imnediately

by taking OSWLD to the near-by medical facility where he was elven blood

trousfuntons and altor a period of time regained his strengch.

Duzing the

Investigation the following day the SUNJECI stated that the doctor indicated

that had OSWALD not been found for approximately ton more minutes, he vould

have been dead. It is here that the SUBJnCT agath pounded the table and

said it the travel agent had not broken into the room, but had instoad

contacted the KGB office like they are instructed to when thoy do not

get any response fron people wich when they have appointments, that he

(SUBJECT) would have most likely directed the travel ageni to forget

about him, and on the following day or later that evoning he rould have

sent one of the KGB agente to check on OSWALD, at which time he would

have been found dead.

This, he vent on to state, 1e that hurte him

when he realizes that he could have been instrumental in disposing of

OSWALD without any special inquiry or vertous investigation, OSWALD

being nothing, and at the sone time todey the Irosident of the United

Brakes, President Kamal, would be ative.

The SUBJECt then went on

to stave that arbor OSWALD was cent to Minok it was thore that he not

Tacle.

Idke himself (OSWALD), Varie vas a girl fran a peacont family

with no special background and soneyhat illiterate. It was because

of her poor background that she was elven permicaion to marry OSWALD

and return to the United States as his wife.

The SUBUBCT then went on to describe what took place on the day

that President IONNEDY was assaocinated. He cald that this was actually

on saturday in Moseow, the 220d of November. He wan home at the tine

and happened to have the radio on, then he heard that the Frosident of

the Unitod States had beon accocolnated.

Approcinately one hour later,

the zadio Informed him that the ascaccin vas Ice OSMALD. Thie anouncement,

he eatd, really stunned hin. He grabbed his cout cod daried to his office.

Innediately upon his arrival he searched for the OSMALD filc.

found the file he revieted it and found that OSWALD had not beon used

or oven approached for use by the Ruestan Intelligence.

He put in a

Longs dictance call to the Chief of the KGB Section in Minck and inquired

whether they had uned, trained or prepared OSWAL in any way for intelli

gence activity. The Chict infored hin that according to what he could

recall, they had not made any uce of OSVATd. Just about this time, he

(SUBJICT) clated that his superlor valled into the office and directed

SEGNET

44 53291 DocId: 32366701 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

DISNEK, GeOrCe M(A)

1/262 622

C SD/1

the SUBJECT to get all the Informtion available on OSWALD and prepare

a curmary to be furntched the top officials of the Comminiot Farcy.

The SUBJECT then directed the KGB Agent In Minsk to likewise prepare

a cumary of his file on OSWALD and inforned him that within twenty

minutes a KGB agent would arrive by special military plane to pick

up the surmary for return to loscow.

Ile said this tas accomplished.

and within one hour they were preparing a detailed report on OSWALD's

activity in Russia. This, concluded the SUBJICT, is the story of

OSWALD in Russia.

C. P. AFPILIASION

(f) The SUBJECT alco indicated that he did not join the Conminist

Party unill he was 27 years old, and he did this out of respect to nis

facher, who at the time vas on his death bed and asted hin (SUBJECT

whether he would do him one more fovor before he died. That is how

the SUBJBCt stated he joined the Communist Party. Ochemrlse, he probably

would not have been a menber to this day.

DIPLOMATS AND INCELLICHTICE TYPES

(6) The SUBJECT stated that the JoB ore able to differentiate

between Anericans who are assioned to lloscow and are actually the

State Department type, fron those who have en intelligence background,

by the fact that the intelligence type of people do not ascociate with

the Ruscion girls, that is they will not go out with them alone, whereas

the State Dopartment type will. Also, over a period of a month or tvo,

they invartably are ible to find evidence that the Intelligence types

have been mecturbating. This lo orally detected though close cran-

ination of the Individual's tovols and hed chceto.

RUSCIAN U -1 AIRCRAFT

(h) On 25 Febzuny 1964 during the evening meal, a discussion vas

had regarding the recent airplane erashes noted in the newspapers and on

TV in the United States. The SUBJECT commented that he has a lot of

friends who are best pilots and who are now engaged in testlog vhat he

referrod to as a U-I type of aircraft that is facter than any other

airerart in the world.

Ile added that there friends are highly paid

but they have very dengerous jobs.

-SECRET

HN 53291 DocId:32366704 Page 6

---

## Page 7

-SECRET

LESUIK, George M. (A)

1262.622

C SD/1

SUBJECT'S FATHER

(1) The SUBJECT also made reference to his father during this

meal, describing him as a very tall and extremely vill-built individual,

and one who vas extremely intelligent and a self-made, self-educated

non. He learned the shipbullding trade mostly through his own research

and

study, and aloo from the SUBJECI's crandfather, who was one of the

Iizst shipbullders in Russia, The SUBJICI added that his grandtather

died at the age of 94. He also stated that after the death of his

father, a nemorial was built in hio memory since he was considered

a very capable director of the government shirping industry.

That

ras about the last time he saw his mother and brother and sister, as

they all vent to this ceremony in honor of his father. He also

Indieated that there was a periodical which gave a complete run-down

on his family background, including that of his grandfather and his

father, and it vas well publicized; and this he belteves had a lot

to do with his being able to get some apecial preference and move

along as fast as he did in the KGB orgentzation.

KGB PRESSURE ON FAMITY

(J) On 27 February 1961 during lunch, the SUBJECI stated that he

has been informed that the KGB Is putting pressure on his immediate

famtly, particularly his mother.

Hovever, he said he was not overly

vorried about her because she is vell-off Mnancially, and being up

In age there Is not much they can do to her.

However, what conceme

him most is the fact that they have alrendy started to play on the

sympathies of his two children and his wife. The SUBJECT stated that

he was antlolpating thle; horever, he did not think that they would

start so soon to prescure the family. However, he does have some hope

that in due time he may be able to get his family out of fusela. This

hope he cald was Elven to him 'by the Chier of SR DIvlelon.

ITBRARY OF CONGRESS PINIECRALTON

(k) On 25 February 1964 during a sichtseeing tour of Washington

by vehicle, as we passed the Library of Congrese, the SUBJECT pointed

to the bullaing and stated that "ve have people vorking in there"

Special Agent Stanley C. IACH sald, "who is "we'?" and the SUBJECT

ansvered, "KGb". He continued by stating that this vas a good place

to place people because they could readily leorn by just watching

what research was being done in the Ithrary of Congress by the military

H4 53294 DocId:32366704 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRES ..

LESNIK, George M. (A)

#262 622 C SD/1

and thereby got an idea as to what the military was planning in the

way of armaments and things of that nature.

The SUBJECI also adviced

that the reponsibility for getting information surreptitiously from

American Imbossies in foreign countries who employ indigenous personnel,

falls within the confines of the KGB.

He stated that the way they go

about thts to to work through the Indigenous personnel and arrange to

enter the embasay at special times during the night.

They would first

make a close survey and a photograph of the area in which the embassy

keeps its classified material, then they would subsequently enter this

arca and open up the safes.

hen he was asked how this was done he

stated, "oh, combirations to safes are not hard to acquire"

• He cald

that the important and dittleult part of this activity to taking

material out and photographing it and then placing it exactly as it

was before they touched it.

JOiN D.

pecial Agent In Charge/,

SECRE

- 7-

HH 53294 DocId:32366704 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SEBRET

11262 622

OSWALD's case was not the same as other Americans in Russia because

he was considered not normal and he was not considered a defector as

were MARTIN and MITCHELL.

SUBJECT heard that OSWALD applied in Mexico for return to Russia.

Word went from Mexico to the First Main Directorate to the Second Main

Directorate.

Second Main Directorate told First Main Directorate that

he had tried suicide in Russia, married a Soviet citizen, departed Russia

and was considered not normal so the request should be rejected.

SUBJECT was then shown some photographs and he said he had seen a

picture of Marina OSWALD in a magazine.

A long list of names was read and shown to SUBJECT but he failed

to identify any of them. Many of the names were of people in Minsk.

JJB: jms

SECRET

- 8-

HH 53294

DocId: 32366704 Page 9

---

