# docid-32168299

## Page 1

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note

DATER

11/14-2017

D IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER:

124-10164-10276

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-8307X

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BOUTWELL. J. GARY

TO: PERRIGO

TITLE:

DATE: 12/26/1991

PAGES:

2928

SUBJECT:

JFK, ASSA, EVID, MAINTAINED, FBI, LAB

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT. PHOTOGRAPH

NEW

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

09/14/1999

Redact,

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

BULKY BOX 1 OF 8, INC MEMO, A/T, LAB RPT, HDW NOTES, AFF, NEWS

ARTIC, LTR, MAGAZINE, BULLETS, SLIDES, 3 CONRAD FILES, NOTEBOOK,

DATE STAMP, DISPOSITION OF EVID ITEMS-NARA, FEDERAL REGISTER,

MISC DOC

DocId: 32168299

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC '2107

Hote)..

DATE:

11-14-2017

this.

•12/18/67

•"i

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

FROM:

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (89-69) (P)

SUBJECT:

ASSASSINATION OR PRESIDENT

JOEN FITZGARALD KENNEDY,

DALLAS,

TEXAS, NOVEMBER

29, 1963 -

MISCELLANECUS - INTONMATION

CONCERNING

(00: DALIAS)

Enclosed for the Bureau are six copios of a LiM

relativa to captioned natter and che copy for Dallas.

Confidential source utilized

in attached LiM is

CENO 1318-R, who furnished the information to SA ROBERT i.

FRIBEL.

A copy of this Illl is being furnished to Secret

Service, New Orleans.

3 / Bureau (Encs 6) (RM)

1

• - Dallas (89-43) (Enc 1) (Info) (Ril)

2 - New Orleans

Roll: jpb

(6)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 5/4/93: BY 9803 ROD KSR

JFK

62109060-Bulky 8307X

Box!

DocId: 32168299

Page

---

## Page 3

untessed under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act de 1992 (a1 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

SECRET

HF. Daloach

12/1193

can i, 9203 ed lorde

1

* ROSEN

"RUSH TO JUDGMENT"

THIS CRITIQUE OF THE

WARREN CONMISSION

WIIITEN BY MARK LANE

1

soptember 7, 1965

He.

petrosch

Rosen

Mallay

Mit.

kiT.

-

MI.

Shrader

Raupach

#ick

Senten

Mr. 5a1115an

SNOREI

AUVIOR - MARK LANE:

Dermil

762/

capers

pir

Crtemwoo.co

Cp:"

Hack Lane 1s an attornay who has received considoreble

publicity for his criticion of the barren Comission and its

report.

He has a long history of offillation with Comunist.

Party front groups and recorda of the Office of the Distriot

Attornoy, Casans County,

New York, disclose Lane is a sexal

segenorate.

Lane foarly representad Marquarito Orald,

nother of lee sarvey Oswald.

Lane's book.

"Push to Judamant, "

has soon. Istsased and baro claina his book in a critique of tha

untessed under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act de 1992 (a1 USC 2107

harren Costaston's Inquity Into the murdors of Erasicant John E.

SEVISE OR 10OK1

Lane'a bosk has been revloved and the firat reaction

receivad is, in fact, lt is a dufence brief w Itchas bean found

to bo a disturbing and cloverly contrived placo of literatura

dosianed to alscredit tim Preaident"s Corantesion.

If comprisas

478 pages, including appandicas and is divided into four parts.

The introiuction 1e written by flagh Trevor-Roper vio

contended the comalasion's pover ves linitad, which was undar-

atandable, howaver, it was particularly seidous baczuss by the

tine the Cornission effectivaly took over frora thn pal, tha ral

had already reachad its conclusions that Onweld shot the

Frealinst and that Onwald was not connocted with any conaptray.

so indicated eritician should take place before juág-

ment end thet 1f the warran commission had allowso Mark leno

to contase thair

evidence before judgant, there would have soon

ne hit sáok.: He statod that he believed, along with

Nock Lane, thet thali exentration vas defoctive and their

nicepas

DocId: 32168299 Page 3

SITED - OYS SECRET

62-109060-83024 Bulky

---

## Page 4

Released under the John

F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 -

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Mamorandum to Mt. Deloach

RE:

"RUSE TO JUDEMENT"

DETAILSE

Mark Lane is an attorney who formerly represented

Marguerite Oswald, mother of Lee Harvey Oswald. He is on the

Reserve Inder and during the time he was preparing hia book,

"Rush to Judgment," he did reside in England.

Our files

reveal that during 1962, the Office of the District Attorney,

Cueens County, Now York, conducted investigation of Mark Lene

for alleged sodony and furnished the Bureau statements of two

girls inich revealed lane had performed upon him perverted

sexual acts of a sadiatic and masochistic nature.

During the period of time Mark Lane was preparing

his book, "Rush to judgnent," he resided in England.

It was

äuring this time that he associated with numerous individuals

among whom, specifically, were three Individuale who he has

acknowledged in his book as persons who encouraged and assistea

him.

Bertrand Russell, a so-called philosopher, atheist,

educator, author, pacifist and an advocate of free love who

believes

that the consumnation of human desires during life

sis the only happiness worth seeking, is one of the individuals.

In the past, he has been a severe critic of the Bureau and 1ts

work and also criticized the Fal for alleged "frame-up"

practices.

Another individual acknowledged is Professor Arnold

Toynbee of England.

Although we have not conducted any

investigation concerning him. the files of the Subcommittee

to Investigate the Administration of the Internal Security Act

and other International security Laws of the Committee of the

Pacific Relations, has references to him. It la noted that

considered by the Americon Cormuniet Party and bys Soviet

anticials as an instrument of cormunist poliay. + Toynbee's

son, Philip, also has a history of membership in the Conmunist

Party nich he later rejected, and later, during forld War II,

was commissioned an intelligence officer in the inglish

Military of Economic Warfare.

Professor Hugh Trevor-Roper, who wrote the introduction

to Lene's book, has never been

investigated by the Bureau.

Fowaver, our files do revoal that he was a former membar of

(S)IMI-6 (British Intelligenco) Public source material publiahed

In England revealed Trevor-Roper was a severe critic of the

*Report by Senate Subcommittee

on Internal

Security

July, 1952

CONTINUED - OVER

SECRET

DocId: 32168299

Page 1

---

