# docid-32299956

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Höte) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10226-10236

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

97-3487-1ST NR 4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

*PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/25/1958

1

- DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

NRO, REQ, MAIL COVER

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1B; 1C

Redact

. 02/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32299956

Page

1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Request for Mail Cover Auth

FD-227 (12-10-54)

•zation

SECRET

To

Director, FBI (97-3487)

DALLAS

(105-745)

Subjoct: NORMAN ROTHMAN

IS - DR; RA

(Dallas - 00)

Date:

4/25/58

Attention:

[X] Domestic Intelligence Division

115.98

Investigative Division

Name: NORMAN ROTHMAN

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

1211,326 O5RIMG/EN

Classified by SP6BpAKCL

Address: 10715 Coogan Drive, Dallas, Texas

Declassify on: OADi/31/85

Type of Mall: Ist class, special delivery, registered mail, and parcel post.

type of Cover: Return address data, no tracings..

Period Covered: 30 days from date of Bureau authority

Purpose of Cover: Identify subject's correspondents; to develop any

information indicating subject may be in violation of Foreign .

Agent's Registration Act

Justification: (Comment on necessity, desirability, productivity, possibility of embarrassment to Bureau.

f necessary continue on extra page.)

Subject, on 1/21/58, was in telephonig contact with Dominican S

MAILED 11

MAY 1 * 1958

COMM - FBI

Informed the DR Government would advise him when a decision

had been reached. Co

A mail cover is belleved necessary to develop Information of

value to this Investigation which is not available from any

other source. It is believed that a mail cover will be

productive.

There appears no possibility of embarrassment to:

1!!

ALT INFORe Coreau from maintaining such a mail cover.

CONTAINEE

JACIN IS URCLASSIFTED

OTHERWISE

NOT RECORDED

Roto - Cleaned u

Postuaster to whon Form. FD-115 will be directed 1f authot ized& 1958

29l58

ole

..

Postmaster, Dallas, Texas

Bureau (RU)

Mail Room

52 MAY

PPROVED

5

DATE

NAT.

CREN

DocId: 32299956

Page 2

---

