# docid-32392697

## Page 1

Date: 02/26/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:

104-10414-10113

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

o eat on Recorde

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 53320 Date:

06-26-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

TO : CHIEF

OF STATION, MEXICO CITY

TITLE

: DISPATCH: LIEMPTY PROPERTIES

DATE

11/27/1967

PAGES

1

SUBJECTS : KUBARK

CLASSIFICATION

DASSIFYCATION SECRE

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASÈD IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/18/98

COMMENTS :

JFK-RH07: F136: 1998.08.18.08:10:16:090128 : FILE-

ORIGINAL HAS FIRST PAGE ONLY.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10414-10113

HH 53320

DooId: 32392697

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Chief of Station,

Mexico City

1T3

INIZ..

FROM

Chief, Western Hemsiphere Division

SUBJECT

6 LIEMPTY Properties

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

MARKIO FOR INOIXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

I. The presence of so many new desk personnel at

headquarters - people who are unfamiliar with station

history - means that we must turn to you with questions

oftener than you might wish.

Our present question

concerns property involved in LIEMPTY. (We are submitting

the project as received from the field, but do not

understand the background very well.)

2. EMMA-11257 of 16 January 1959, a project renewal, said

that "approximately one year ago the LICALLA base was

purchased by KUBARK through? LIMOUSINE', and we have not found

any cables or dispatches which would show a change in that

status.

Does MEXI 03 LIMUST/LIMESA (see Real Property

Report

of August 1967) Include LICALLA? If so, and if we own

LICALLA, why does it cost us $1800 a year for rent and

utilities?

(Up until the submission dated 1963 the project

renewal used to say "LIMITED and LICALLA rents are returned

to station by LIMOUSINE and credited to station miscellaneous

receipts" but after that time this sentence was eliminated.)

(Continued..)

Distribution:

2-COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

B0W-15952

SE C FASTICANON

DATE

27 November 1967

4958 - 0M 14/2

N. Per

-

erkins

ORIGINATING

SPIST

COORDINATING

EXT.

53320 DocId: 32392697 Page 2;

---

