# docid-32126996

## Page 1

ote)

DATE:

ment

11-14-2017

sination Recede folloction Set.oF 1992421 USE 2107

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD. NUMBER: 124-10029-10333

RECORD_SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-3702-311, 312

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: OT

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 02/11/1964

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 105-82555-2095

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

03/02/1999

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/17/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC LTR, FBI MEMO

DocId: 32126996 Page 1

---

## Page 2

" Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 "*.

" DATE: 11-14-2817

82 (Rov- 4-29-57)

To:

Director, FBI

Date:

SECRET Butle :

Attention

:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

2-11-64

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

105-32555

From: Legal Attache, Ottawa

Title

163-364

Character

)

IS - R

LEE: HARVEY OSWALD

Reference

Mycab 1-28-64.

Enclosed are the following communications received

Arom

the RCMP

Original andtwo

oÊ RCMP letter dated 2-10-64,1

together wiüh the enclosure

thereto

Temarks:

CLASSIFIED BY SU6E ScO/Sel

ReBUcab 2-6-64, this matter has been

followed closely with

Inspector Parent, Directorate of security and IntellIgenco,

RCMP, Headquarters and efforts are under way to determine if

any activity on Canatian Passport lesued

to subject in 1953,

no.

4-347367

This office will sucab

as information

avallablo.) (500 my airtel 4-1-58 re "Älbert Osborne,

PC-FM. "

BUf 110 64-42137)

*

Dissemination

May be made as received

May be made as indicated by stamp on enclosure

May not be made without further clearance

withfRiCMPS

DECLASSIFY ONI

85

Following offices would be interested in receiving copies of enclosures:

105-3702-312

Dallas; Now Orleans: Detroit

Status with this office: 5110193

Do not write in space below

Classified

RUC

Pending

@Bactassity.on:

DAOR™

5 - Bureau (1 cc - Dallas; New

Orleans; Detroit) (Enc. 4)

1 - Ottawa

NEC:

SECRET

DooId: 32126996

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Mote)., DATE: 11-14-2017

"LL CORRESPONDENCE TO BE

ADDRESSED: -

SECRET

THE COMMISSIONER,

R. C. M. POLICE,

OTT AWA

FILE NO. D 939-Q-18241

HEADQUARTERS

OTTAWA,

8

CANADA.

February 10, 1964.

SECRET

Dear Mr. Innes:

This has reference to your memorandum dated

January 27, 1964 re:

Lee Harvey OSWALD, Internal

Security - R, your file 163-3640, requesting enquiries

relative to one Albert OSBORNE,

and will confirm your

verbal conversation with Insp. PARENT.

Enquiries conducted in Montreal revealed

that Albert OSBORNE wrote an undated letter to the

Central Branch of the Y.M.C.A., at 1441 Drummond St.,

requesting that his mail be

forwarded to General

Delivery, Detroit.

The original of this letter,

which bears OSBORNE's signature, is attached.

3.0

Further enquiries made in Montreal failed

to uncover anyone who knew or could identify Albert

OSBORNE. Enquiries are continuing in an effort to

obtain more identifying data pertaining to OSBORNE

and you will be advised of the results.

Yours very truly,

THE FOREGOING IS PASSED FOR THE INFOR-

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY, IT MAY BE DISSEMI-

NATED FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES IF NECESSARY

BUT THE ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE IS

NOT TO BE NAMED AS THE SOURGE.

(J.R.W.

Bordeleau),

Assistant Commissioner,

Director

105-3202-311

Security and Intelligence.

Mr. Moss Lee Innes,

c/o U.S. Embassy,

100 Wellington St.,

OTTAWA, Ontario.

DocId: 32126996

Page 3

---

