# docid-32291309

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10207-10085

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-9-29-684

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/18/1963

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

CIP, RACK AND SUBV, ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

06/08/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45760 Docid: 32291309 Page 1

33

---

## Page 2

• - •

PAGE TWO

CO. SEVERAL THOUSAND DOLLARS AND POPELL GAVE HIM STOCK IN

PAYMENT. ACCORDINO STATED THE STOCK AMOUNTED TO TWENTY THOUSAND

SHARES, WORTH ABOUT TEN TIMES THAT WHICH POPELL CO. ALLEGEDLY

OWNED D-FRANCISCO. ACCORDINO ADVISED NASTOV WAS THREATENED ON

SEVEN SIXTEEN, THE DAY AFTER HE WAS INTERVIEVED BY SEC., THAT

NASTOV RECEIVED A CALL FROM NEW YORK FROM LEO POPELL AND AN

UNKNOWN MALE ON SAME LINE., THAT POPELL REQUESTED NASTOV TO RETRACT

STATEMENTS MADE TO MIAMI NEWS AND NASTOV REFUSED. UNKNOWN MALE

STATED DO YOU KNOW HOW IT FEELS TO GET HIT ON THE HEAD WITH A

BASEBALL BAT FILLED WITH LEAD.

ROBERT JUDY INTERVIEWED BY SEC UNDER OATH. ADVISED

ACCORDINO HE RECEIVED CALL FROM ANONYMOUS MALE WHO STATED IF

YOU DO NOT SHUT UP, YOU WILL WIND UP AT THE BOTTOM OF THE RIVER.

MIAMI PCI, ADVISED SIX SIX THAT HARRY D-FRANCISCO

WAS FORMER CONTRACTOR IN MIAMI AREA AND HE HAD BEEN BEATEN UP ON

SIX THREE•, THAT D-FRANCISCO LOANED POPELL FOUR THOUSAND DOLLARS

AND POPELL PLACED A GREAT DEAL OF STOCK IN D-FRANCISCO-S NAME

END PAGE TWO

"NW 45760 DocId: 32291309 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

