# docid-32306251

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10289-10381

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

63-7985-1ST NR 138

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: LEG, MX

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/13/1964

2

ISW, JHO, TEAMSTERS BONDING PROGRAM, KICKBACKS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306251 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 144 U57

DATE: 11714-2017

Bogat,

Debraszy

23g

1968

(62, 129

Director,

(63-789)

(03-7985)

JAMES RIDDLE BODEA

CHARLES V. BLAY

CANTRAL CASSALIT COMPASY

ENNIA DIAY SERVICES,

BAG.

MISCELLANSODS - INDOREATION CONOUBAING

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAID SECTION)

(00: CG)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

JARES RIDDLE HOUDA

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFIED.

IRED S.

DATE 1-14-4.745668.5LD ASK

RILEU M. DORILALI

MRECERLANNOOS - INFORVARION CON

JFK)

(ACCOUNTING AND FALO SECTIOS)

(CD: CS)

In connection with above-captioned natters,

Leges se

requested to

advise the

Bureau whetbor any additional Infomation

hos boon rocoired from the Donco del Pals pertinest to these cages.

Also advice vether Stevart

• D. Bopon appeared in Mozico

City as noted

Buray cablegran dated 1/3/54.

the crest additions; naterial has boon zocolved fron

• Monico City bank and/or Stewart Be

lopps did appone in

Hesico City.

advise date it to expectod

• Letterhead notoraadun

subnittod catting

forth the additional details.

2 » Chicago (02:6006) (62-6020) (Iato)

63-7985 (James Riddle

Hoffa; Irwin S. Weiner)

- Foreign Lraison Section (Route through for review)

WAF : eem

At the request of the Criminal Division, Department

of Justice, the Legat, Mexico City has been instructed to obtain

certain information from bank records at the Banco del Pais, Mexico

City through established rellable

sources.

The Legat

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE TWO

3

NOT RECORDED

170 FEB 14 1964

JUNICATE YELLOW

0872771

DocId: 32306251

Page 2

Hate) .

ORIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kernedy Assassinat

DATE: 11-14-2017

Records Collection Het 01 1994 +11-U56

7 Hotel.

MEMO TO LEGAT, MEXICO

RE: JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; CHARLES W. BRAY

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; IRWIN S. WEINER

63-7893; 63-7985

NOTE: (CONTINUED FROM PAGE TWO

Bureau results of its inquiries to date in

furnished the most redent of which is under the date of 19/27/63.

LAM form, the

The cover letter to this IHM set forth a lead to furnish any

additional information obtained from the Banco del Pais.

On 1/3/64, cablegram was directed to the Legat advising that

Stewart B. Hopps (an international reinsurance expert and

alleged swindler) planned to be in Mexico City on or about 1/8/64

in connection with gaining access to a safe deposit box at the

Banco del Pals. It was indicated that Hopps might contact

Legat during this visit.

Investigation in this matter concerns the Teamsters

Bonding Program and allegations that kickbacks were made

•to

Hoffa in connection with this program.

Hopps reportedly parti-

cipated in the initial stages of setting up the Teamsters Bonding

Program with Charles W. Bray, a Chicago insurance expert.

During

our investigation various transactions with the Banco del Pais

were uncovered and the Criminal Division desired that be attempt

to run them out in Mexico City.

2

63-9985-1182

2/13/64

DocId: 32306251

Page 3

---

