# docid-32304400

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10286-10030

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2918-2ND NR 150

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/05/1964

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

SMO, GM, TOP HOODLUMS, MISUR, RACK AND BUSS ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32304400

Page 1

15

---

## Page 2

Released unter-the Fohn F Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

DIRECIOR, FBI (92-2914)

(92-2918)

2/5/64

JUNE

SAC, PITTSBURCH

(92-236-Sub

(92-228-Sub

(P)

GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka.

SAMUEL

MANNARINO, aka.

AR

Both of captioned subjects, who are brothers,

are national top hoodlums who have been selected by the

Department of Justice for inclusion among their top forty

subjects.

Since the Inception of the Criminal Intelligence

Progran,

efforts have been made to locate a possible site

for misur coverage of the MANNARINOS' activitles, ano

several previously explored target sites have had to be

discarded for one reason or another.

is now spending the greater part of each day at his office.

This orfice is located at 1203 Third Avenue, New kensingons

Pa.:

and fron it, the MANNARINd brothers conduct their

legitimate business enterprises, consisting of a scrap metals

business, a pinball machine distributorshiy, a cigarette vending

machine company

a bronze grave marker manufacturing company

and a company which manufactures small novelty items from

scrap metals. PO 70%-C states that SAMUEL MANNARINO reCeives

numerous visitors in this office on almost a dally basie,

some of whom are known to be in, or on the fringe of,

racketeering activities and some of whom are not known to

informant.

The nature of the discussions held in the office

it turm ye

matters of interest to the FBI are discussed.

Informant has furnished sketches of

the interior

of the MANNARINO office and

coples of keys

to

the outside

gates and office building.

; Bureau (RM)

2 • 92-2914

€ = 92-2918

4 - Pittsburgh

92-2918-

NOT RECORDED

167 FEB 18 1964

2 - 92-236-sub

2 = 92-228-Sub

2

2

iL.

(8)

Soprai

DocId: 32304400

Page 2

---

