# docid-32327317

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/5/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90062-10015

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 105-85082-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/25/1960

1

. MARVIN KANTOR

REMBERT CAVEN ALLEY JR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: IC; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32327317

11

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

JAIL: 11-14-241

TANDARD FORM N

SECR

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-85082)

FROM : CULEGAI, LONDON (205-724)

SUBJECT:

REMBERT CAVEN

ALLEY, JR.

IS DENI

DATE: November 25, 1960

T4-17-4449

Classifted By

Declassity on:

DADR

00: Chicago

enel,

RE :

Chicago letter dated August 29, 1960, requesting

ordElnal source, Which was the banden Securits Serviceite re-@

contacted for further information regarding subject.

There are enclosed the original and five copies of

a memorandum setting forth in detail all information availabl

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUO/Ga

ON: 25X (CE

7/17/98

F).

DECLASSI

¿o the Danish Security Service,

This information was classified

"confidential" and was received on November

E. MOGENS JENSEN, Chief of the danish security

tained in the enclosure is information regarding MARVIN KANTOR,

subject of Bufile 105-83198. 15,

• Mr. JENSEN asked that the information not be used.

by the 'Bureau in any way which would indicate to any other

agency that the information came from the Danish Security

Service.

He also requested that any additional information

developed by the Bureau concerning ALLEY's contact with

ABARCHALINE of the Soviet Embassy in Copenhagen be furnished

to him because of their continued interest in ABARCHALINE!$ 6

intelligence activities in Denmark. (Bi(s)

From the information contaired In the enclosures do

it would appear that these meetings were certainly clandestine

in nature and also that books and periodicals were passed.

between the two.

Is should also be noted that, according to

the Danes, subject left Denmark on February 13, 1960. (ei5)

The Danish Security Service is being carried as I-1

in the enclosure.

9), chicag

ALL IRFORMATION CONTAI

P

artel swee

KENGIN 1S UNGLASZIES

AVERAT WACRE SHOOK

Enels. )

OTHERNISE

• 5 Bureau

(Chic,

1 London

CWB: COm

(6)

ENCLOS

1/30/21

EX = 103

105-35052 man

21.

92

NOV 29 1960

LittoCG

12-8-60

88-19-6991

SECRET

DocId: 32327317 Page 2

---

