# docid-32290967

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/5/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10206-10243

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-83564-1ST NR 8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: ADIC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/27/1976

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MLO, ASSOC, ASST, FBI, TELCAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290967

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

AIRTEL

20 :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SECRE

8/27/76

CONFI&ENTIA/29/S8

Classined by

sormache c

rectasshy on: LAUr

(SPOMACGEL 3) 17195-574)

DIRECTOR, FEI

De1 190-18425-23652

ADIC, NEW YORK

39 212 10

ALT INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNOLASSIRIED

CHANGED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

ILONA MARITA

ORENZ aka

-OTTERNISE

Ilona Marita lucasits,

Mrs. LouiSturasiter

13954-

Marita forenz,

- MariaDorenz

ILONA MARITA LORENZ VURASITS

TECIP

Title is marked "Changed" to reflect all known aliases

of subject as obtained from files of wyo. U

Captioned individual was subject of NYfile 105-4377

(5)

and was wife of subject of NYfile 134-17200

(Bufile 134-19345)

whom she divorced in approximately January, 1976.

ORIGINAL FILED

During the period of her marriage, 1970 - 1975, Ms.

Lorenz voluntarily furnished information of both security and

criminal nature.

She was advised on numerous occasions that

she was not an informant of the FBI. l

Subsequent to her divorce she continued to contact the

NYO on a voluntarily basis and furnished information of a

criminal nature.

against the advice of the NYO began an affair with one

GIUSEPPE FAGGIANO aka Joe Pino, David Ring, who was by reputation,

a "hit man" and arsonist.

Throughout the duration of the affair

she continued to furnish criminal information obtained through

her relationship

• with FAGGIANO.

Bureau

New York

JJC:caf

(5)

SECREN

105-83561

NOW RECORDED

APR 7 1977

CONFA

ENTINE

APR 1 & 1977 BR

DocId: 32290967 Page 2

---

## Page 3

[Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECHEM

NY 137-21612

CONFI

In April, 1976, instant case was opened, to.

Ms. Lorenz' potential as

determine

an Informant.

fact that lie, lorenz was the subject of excelles sole

on 6/12-13/76 regarding recruitment by CIA during 1960 to kill

FIDEL CASTRO and was also about to publish a book regarding her

activities with CASTRO instant case was closed. At that time,

the source hau indicated that her relationship with FAGGIANO was

terminated.

Subsequently, Ms. Lorenz recontacted the HYU vo

marily

and advised she had renewed the relationship with him. In

July, 1976, Ms. Lorenz advised she had been pistol whipped and

beaten by FAGGIANO.

subseguently filed a complaint of first

degree assault against him with the NYCED.

FAGGIANO was arrested

on 8/11/76 and was released on his own recognizance. Ms. Lorenz

alleged that subsequent to his release anonymous telephone calls

were nade to her unlisted home telephone, threatening her life.lA

Ms. Lorenz, at her request, was contacted on 8/19/76

by an SA. of

the No and Detective TERENCE MC SWIGEN, NYCPD. At

that time she accused FAGGIANO of burglarizing her home and stealing

several tape recordings of telephone conversations she had with

FAGGIANO; ED LEVEX, a long time boyfriend and allegedly father of

her son;

several attorneys and publishers relating to the upcoming

publication of her book.

Ms. Lorenz claimed she feared for her

life and requested FBI or police protection.

She was advised

by attending SA that there was no FBI jurisdiction in the assault

by FAGGIANO, and that the fbI could not furnish her protection

On 8/24/76, Detective MC SWIGEN advised NYO that prior to

the hearing set for FAGGIANO regarding the assault, his attorney

produced a tape on which Ms. Lorenz was conversing with a male

regarding the possibility of "putting out a contract" to have

FAGGIANO killed.

This revelation created problems for the

prosecuting district attorney who requested that the hearing be

postponed. U

The above is being furnished the Bureau for its informa-

tion in the event that any inquities are made regarding Ms. Lorenz

request for protection.

The NYO does not intend to contact Ms. Lorenz in the

future que to her notorictyl

- 2-

SECRET

CONFE ENTIAT

DocId: 32290967 Page 3

---

