# docid-32301721

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10279-10056

RECORD_ SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-141949-36

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DIRECTOR. FBI

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 12/08/1970

PAGES: 26

SUBJECT:

OBA, CORRELATION SUMMARY, SEE REFERENCES, AKA, PLACES, DATES,

BOMBING ACT

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/15/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32301721

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

bunch

ABBREVIATIONS

Add. info

CNM..

ESA.

MIRR.

SNFE.

• Additional information appearing in

this reference which pertains to

Orlando Bosch Avila can be found in

the main file or elsewhere in this

summary.

This information may have

been received from a different source.

... Cuban Nationalist Movement

•Ejercito Secreto Anti-Comunista

(Secret Anti-Communist Army)

... Movimiento Insurreccional De

Recuperacion Revolucionaria

(Insurrectional Movement of

Revolutionary Recovery)

....Second National Front of Escambray

*****

Jose Arias Hernandez (protect identity) on 6/16/67

advised that Jose Ramon Egues appeared in the vicinity of Union

City, New Jersey after the first of the year, 1967.

He began

soliciting help for an anti-Castro movement

entitled "Tesis

Cubana

• Also at this time he planned to demoralize various

anti-Castro movements in the US which were in competition with

his own by disrupting their public meetings through the use of

In this effort, Egues had the support of Dr.

Orlando Bosch.

Bosch had in his possession some

cancelled checks

which he proposed to use to prove that various anti-Castro groups

in the US were nothing but fronts

for the US Government.

97-4194-540 ep.2

81-205-208781-33 ep.2

(33)

CROOKE

-2-

DocId: 32301721 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

MM(1115-S

sadvised that as of January 27, 1967, Armando

Fleites

Leader of the Second National Front of Escambray

(105-112098) (SNFE) Miami, Florida, mentioned that he was interested

in attempting to unite SNFE with the MIRR, which was under the

leadership of Dr. Orlando Bosch.

Fleites

said that a possible barrier

to any unity with the MIRR would be the insistance of Bosch on

being

the number one man should the organizations unite.

105-112098-726 ep.1

(33)

Cubana, Miami, Florida headed by Felipe Rívero and Aldo Rosado.

The reason for the break was that Rivero had been talking of possible

mutual

cooperation with Dr. Orlando Bosch and flut had no use lör

105-160425-19 ep.1

34)

Dr. Orlando Bosch was the main speaker at a mass meeting

of Cuban exiles held in Manhattan Center, Hotel New Yorker, New

on 2/19/67.

Bosch arrived in New York from Miami, Florida

109-584-4502 ep.1,2

(40)

MM-974-S reported that on 4/3/67, Diego Medina, one of

the leaders of SNFE (105-112098) Miami, Florida, was in contact

They discussed the success of the fund raising

campaign of the SNFE and Bosch commented that this was a very appropriate

→ '

time to step up the Cuban exile attacks on the Castro Government.

No specific plans were discussed but Medina indicated that Bosch had

the support of the leaders and members of the SNFE.I(U)

105-112098-731 ep.2

1300

SECRET

-3-

DocId: 32301721 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

tig.

This reference sets out information pertaining to the

activities and contacts of Orlando Bosch Avila in connection with

his duties as head of the MIRR,

from 4/22/66 through 4/14/67, in New

York, New Orleans, Louisiana and Miami, Florida.

These activities

included plans to cause a riot during a rally held in Miami on

1/28/67; attempt to raise money for a bombing mission against Cuba

on 4/14/67; and his arrest for transporting explosives.

109-584-4522 p. 2,7,8

(73,40)

Jose Ramon Egues, 500 St. Johns Place, Brooklyn, NY,

who was employed at the offices of

the International Ladies Garment

Workers Union, Nic, was interviewed regarding his plans to hold a

neeting in NYC on 4/16/67 in an effort to bring various anti-Castre

organizations together.

Egues on 3/17/67, furnished a list of organizations and

representatives who had agreed to participate in the 4/16/67 meeting.

The MIRR, represented by Dr. Orlando Bosch was on the list. List

set out.

109-584-4518 ep.1

(40)

TP-52-S advised that delegates of anti-Castro organizations

in Tampa, Florida, met at the

home of Enrique Someillan, 1515 10th

Ave., Tampa on 4/29/67 and were addressed by Orlando Bosch of

Miami, who traveled to Tampa accompanied by Marcelino Garcia, also

of Miami.

Bosch discussed an article which appeared in

"Patria"

Spanish language newspaper published in Miami.

This article named

him (Bosch) and others as possible candidates for appointment as officials

of cuba by Fidel

Castro. Bosch denied making any concessions with

Fidel Castro.

109-584-4542 ep. 1

(40)

MM-635-S advised that on 5/15/67, Orlando Bosch Avila met

with CNM members Miguel San Pedro (105-165031), Orlando Atienza

and Julio Pestonit.

Bosch claimed

that he and

Felipe Rivero Diaz

had

been close friends and that the MIRR and the CNM should cooperate

and

Rivero should become leader of the anti-Castro movement in the

US. The same informant advised that San Pedro appeared to have been

(continued)

-1-

DocId: 32301721 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

(continued)

SECRET

in charge of the CNM and that San Pedro and Bosch were good friends.

Rivero and Bosch, according to MM-635-S, had not been good friends,

but

since Rivero was

confined, Bosch was exerting considerable influence

over the CNM. SAlU

105-165031-4 ep.3

(80,35)

MM-974-S advised that Orlando Bosch was among those who attended

a meeting held at MIRR headquarters in Miami, Florida, on 5/16/67. This

meeting

was held to discuss the type of action which

could be taken to

protest the arrest by the US Immigration and

• Naturalization Service of

Felipe Rivero Diaz, leader of the CNM.C(U)

MM-974-S advised that Luis Gonzalez Grajales head of the Comite

De Ayuda A La Resistencia Cubana (105-159634), who was also present at the

above meeting,

was associated with Orlando Bosch and had been working

with Bosch and several others on

Liberation or Follue RIver Diaz" CU)

"Committee to Fight for the

It was noted that it was not known whether the association

between Gonzalez and Bosch was limited

to the work of this committee

or whether they were involved in other activitles u

105-159634-5

(34

The Miami Office advised that Cuban exiles in Miami, among the

leaders of which was Dr. Orlando Bosch, organized a general

strike by

exiles to take place on 5/23/67, in protest of felipe Rivero Diaz's arrest.

It was noted that Rivero, head of the CNM in Miami, was

arrested on

5/12/67.

105-165030-4 ep.1

(35) .

SI 97-4194-417 p.4

The following references

pertain to a meeting held in NYC on

6/3-4/67 between Ignacio Novo, Secretary General of the New York Branch

of the CNM, his brother Guillermo Novo, both of the New York CIty--Newark

area, Dr. Manuel A. DeVarova, head of the Rescate Revolucionaria Democratica,

an anti-Fidel Castro organization, and Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila, head of

the MIRR in Miami, Florida.

Castro Cubans were discussed and these plans centered in Canada.

related during

this meeting that, the Cuban exiles wanted to show the US

Government,

the FBI,

and the Immigration and Naturalization Service that

what action they had taken against Felipe Rivero Diaz, leader of the CNM

in Miami, could not stop the Cuban exiles in their fight against Prime

Minister

Fidel Castro of Cuba.

Bosch returned to Miami and contacted CNM

and MIRR officials relative to obtaining arms and explosives to continue

attacks against Cuban

и)

SECRET (continued)

-5-

DocId: 32301721 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SLOPE

(continued)

targets.

6/26/67.

REFERENCE

97-4194-460

-472

-473

-480

p.1,2

-516

p.1A,4,28-31

-521

-522

-582 p.6

97-4275-11 p.8,9-92,96

-13 p. 7,8,13,20-22,24

105-164011-8 p.19-21,23

This

information covered the period 6/3/67 through

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(35i

This reference pertains to hearings of the SISS on 6/28/67

in Wash., DC.

Information regarding the MIRR activities of Orlando

Bosch Avila was set out in testimonies of individuals.

113-7-210-4599 ep.1242

(14, 41)

William Sampol,.. NYC (protect identity), advised on 6/5/67 that

Orlando Bosch, leader of the MIRR in Miami,

Florida, was in contact

with leaders of the CNM in Miami in connection with planning for

additional terroristic activities. cu

MM-635-S advised that on 7/15/67, Bosch said that he would

have nothing further to do with Miguel San Pedro (105-165031) or

any other CNM members. (e(U)

105-165031-6 ep. 1

(35)

MM-635-S on 7/12/67 advised that Ramon Donestevez (105-147810)

had contacted

an unidentified arms

dealer in Miami for the purpose

of placing an order for a quantity of arms and explosives. a u

(continued)

-6-

DocId: 32301721 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

/ DATE: 11-14-2017

(continued)

It appeared that he intended to make available part of them

to Orlando Bosch Avila.

In the past Donestevez had donated money

to bosch out now will only lend arms. aa

On 7/17/67, MM-635-S further advised that Bosch had recently

contacted Donestevez in connection with the purchase and delivery

of the arms pollu

18, 197110-31 e117

NY 4888-Sadvised on 6/8/67 that Pedro Armando Tomas Yanes

Y. Ortega (105-170008) formerly headed the MIRR, and represented

Dr. Orlando Bosch in the New York--New Jersey areas.

The same informant also advised that it was his understanding

that Pedro Yanes no longer was the

representative of the MIRR in

the New York--New Jersey areas.u

5361s an 5/e/er agrised that lanes had neer replace

ecause or a sasic difference of opinion between himself and Bosch.

Diego Gonzalez, a columnist, for "El Tiempo"

', a Spanish

language newspaper published daily in NYC, on 7/27/67, advised that

Pedro Yanes was still associated with Bosch in Miami,

Florida and

that Israel Romero was the representative of the MIRR in the New

York area.

Add. info.

105-170008-2p.1-3

(37)

(38)

This reference sets out the activities and contacts of Orlando

Bosch

Avila in Miami, Florida,

New versey and Georgia in connectior

with the MIRR from 6/3/67 until 7/28/67.

Bosch attended

a meeting.

of Cuban

exiles in New Jersey on 6/3/67 where plans and activities

(continued)

-7-

DocId: 32301721

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Rennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

(continued)

for future bombings were discussed, the cooperation between the

MIRR and CNM was set, out and prosecution of MIRR members in connection

with their indictments by a Federal Grand Jury in Miami and Macon,

Georgia.

curtailed.

Bad or unese tatetents Buddhis plans ad seen.

109-584-4574 ep.6-9

MM-535-S advised that, from May through June, 1967, the

CNM and MIRR were cooperating and maintained very friendly relations.

In July, 1967, Orlando Bosch said he would no longer cooperate with

the CNM and accused the CNM of being dishonest with him.

November, 1967, Felipe Rivero, leader of the CNM, in Miami, said

that Bosch was

a traitor to the cuban exile cause

and he had discontinueo

cooperation with him some months previously.ou

It was noted that Bosch and

five other MIRR members were

indicted by a Federal Grand Jury in Miami under piracy and illegal

exportation of arms on 7/19/67.

Add. imfo.

109-584-4605 p.6

(13,40)

• par. 2

97-4194-583

S1 par.

2

972.2304-628

Cuban exile, had co

to cooperate with the Ejercito Secreto Anti-Comunista (Secret Anti-

Communist Army) (105-175210), an anti-Fidel Castro organization of

Cuban exiles in Miami, Florida.

105-175210-5 ep.1

(37)

-8-

+05-141945-3668

DocId: 32301721 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY-5938-S advised that Ignacio Novo (97-4275) had informed

him that a meeting of cuban exiles was to be held at the woodstock

Hotel, NYC

on

2/3/68 and Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila was expected to

attend.d

attend the above monting ligant savised that toach did rai

97-4275-18 p.13,14

(5,26)

#51 97-4194-779 ep.1

(14,26)

81 97-4194-783 ep.1

52 97 4194-801 ep. 13,14

On 2/14/68 Hector Cornillot Llano (105-94261), 921 SW

5th Avenue, Miami, Florida, during an interview in connection with

various bombing matters in the

Miami area, advised that he was

not personally acquainted with Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila.

105-94261-36 p.7

(10,33)

By letter dated 4/8/68, the New York Office advised that

they were unable to come up with any potential suspects in the CNM

(97-4194) 0r MIRR who might be furnishing information to the Cuban

Intelligence Service.

The MIRR in New York was a small, non-functional organization,

which, according to Pedro Yanes,

a member of its National Board,

lisbanded about a vear and a half ago.

According to Yanes all direction

Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila

According to Yanes,

activity in the MIRR.(*U

97-4194-829

48, 26)

-9-

SECRET

DocId: 32301721 Page 9

---

## Page 10

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Guiltermo Miguel, (105-181038) 561 West 143rd St.,

NYC, on 6/13/68 advised that he was a member of an anti-Castro

organization called Cuban Power. He denied knowledge of any

bombings alleged to having been

made by members of Cuban Power.

also denied knowing various Cubans who resided in the New York area

including Orlando Bosch Avila.

Add. info.

105+181038-2 p.4,7

(13

38)

MM-847-S advised that Orland Bosch attended a meeting

of a number of Cuban leaders held on 6/8/68 at the offices of the

"meeting of the democratic revolutionary organizations"

Ricardo Morales Navarette (protect identity), on 6/25/68,

advised that on the previous date he had met Orlando Bosch at the

offices of SNrE.

Bosch advised that he had participated in a

unity meeting of four principal anti-Castro organizations which

included the MIRR and the SNFE.

105-112098-773 ep.3

(33)

MM-635-Sadvised that on 7/2/68, Felipe Rivero, leader

of the CNM in Miami, Florida, told Miguel San Pedro (105-165031)

munat Orlando Bosch had questioned Rivero as to why Rivero had not

attended a unity meeting (date not given) held at the Miami

Rivero said that Bosch told him that the Novo

brothers, CNM members from New York and New Jersey had attended, but

Rivero believed Bosch was being sarcastic, knowing of the dissention

In the CM. C/4

1955165032-12 ep. 4

-10-

SECRET

DocId: 32301721 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

This reference is the translation of an anonymous communication

dated 7/16/68 at New York which sets forth the names of several individuals

in the Miami, New York and New Jersey areas who were allegedly involved

in Cuban exile bombing activities. Included was Orlando Bosh,

Miami, Florida.

1 109-584-4713

(48)

The following references appearing in the file captioned

"Anti-Fidel Castro Activities"

set forth information furnished

by various informants as to the movements of Orlando Bosch Avila

in the Miami, Florida area during June and July, 1968.

These

informants were in close contact with Bosch and accounted for his

whereabouts, automobiles used and have identified associates of

Bosch.

REFERENCE

109-584-4679 p.2

-4690 p.1,2

-4693 p. 1,2

-4706 p.1

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(74

14

14

(14

MM-974-S on 8/2/68 advised that a meeting had been

held the previous night at the offices of the SNFE, in Miami,

Florida.

Orlando Bosch of the MIRR was among those who attended.

Plans were discussed to organize and stage a demonstration in the

vicinity of the Republican

National Convention (157-9760) on Miami

Beach, Florida on 8/5/68.1

157-9760-99 p.1

(42)

SI 157-9760-148 ep.1

(42)

Oscar Angulo Reyes (protect identity) advised that

representatives of 18 Cuban

exile organizations held a meeting

the a to dot i Repain Nation a decide (591-9766) $(4)

(continued)

-11-

SECRET

DocId: 32301721

Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRE

(continued)

on 8/5-10/68 at Miami Beach. Orlando Bosch Avila

representatives

present to cancel the picketing.

*elenced the

157-9760-149 ep. 1.

(гр, 42)

Gabriel Abay Jach (105-128385) on 8/7/68, was interviewed

regarding alleged Cuban Power activities in NYC.

He advised that

Orlando Bosch Avila was

"well-known"

to him.

105-128385-23

MM 1337-S advised that from June 21 to June 23, 1968, a

unity meeting of 16 Cuban revolutionary organizations took place at

the Miami Colonial Hotel, Miami, Florida.

This meeting gave birth to the

formation of the Direccion Central de Organizaciones Revolucionarias

Democraticas Cubanas (105-190768). Among the organizations and

delegates attending was the MIRR headed by Orlando Bosch. ga(U)

The same informant advised that this meeting, Bosch bitterly

aback to the loan situation ger investigative activities with

[on 8/26/68, MN 192-s7 Morted that the Central Direction

a press release dated 8/20/68, which announced the

appointment of the work committee and officials. Dr. Orlando Bosch

was listed as a member of the Military Commission.

Add. info.

105-190768-1 ер. p.2,3,4,6

(28,3 paragraphs 1 and 2

109-584-4699 ep.1-3

ST paragraph 1, 2

157-9760-21

ep. 2

(23,48)

-12-

DocId: 32301721

Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

.. d

MM 124841

Sarised that on the night of 9/11/68, he had been

with Aton

constanzo,

and had been introduced to two men:

these men was Puly Tamayo (105-152197). Constanzo said that no

further bombings were planned at that moment but that they would

continue and mentioned that he was working with Orlando Bosch, head

of the Cuban Power fe

Ricardo Morales Navarrete (protect identity) advised that

Tamayo and Constanzo were part of an organization which used the

name "7 of December Cuban Secret Organization" Miami, Florida.

105-152197-12 ep. 3

(3/4)

On 9/16/68, Ricard Morales Navarrete, PSI (protect identity),

advised that on 9/15/68,

Orlando Bosch said he had recently told

Juan Garcia Cardenas that within three days three Polish ships, the

"Polancia"

and two others would arrive at the Miami Harbor.

told Garcia he would let Garcia use a recoilless rifle to shoot at

one of these ships.

Omar Soto (105-181037) was present,

according

to Bosch, when this discussion took place. Soto claimed to be an

expert with such a rifle.

The same informant further advised that on the next day,

Bosch found out that Garcia and Soto had been looking around Miami

for a man who could fire this rifle. Bosch expressed disgust with

Garcia and Soto.

203-181037-8 ep. 2,3,4

Arturo Rodriguez Vives (105-183965), 2304 Amsterdam Avenue,

NYC, on 9/17/68 during an interview advised that he was a propagandist

for Cuban Power and until two weeks ago was a spokesman for Cuban Power

in NYC. He stated he was appointed to this position by "Ernesto"

leader of the Cuban Power.

He further stated that two weeks ago at

a meeting he attended in

Miami, Florida, all releases by Cuban Power

would now be made by "Ernesto"

He stated that there would be

more bombings in the US by Cuban Power on orders

from

he refused

to identify further. He stated that

"Ernesto

"Ernesto" no

whom

would make

a nationwide release in 45 days concerning the aims of Cuban Power and

at that time the various ofther Cuban groups would be under "Ernesto".

105-183965-4 ep.4

(54)

174-1-34-855

(54)

(continued)

-14-

DocId: 32301721 Page 13

---

## Page 14

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aöt of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

(continued)

Correlator's Note: Orlando Bosch Avila, who,

createc

the Cuban Power, used the pseudonym

"Ernesto" wher

issuing press releases which claimed credit for

various bombings.

Francisco Molina, PSI (protect identity), on 9/18/68

furnished information pertaining to ESA (105-175210) plans to place

an

explosive charge on a Russian ship which was due in Port of Miami,

Florida during the week of 9/21-27/68.

The same informant advised that it was believed that the

explosives, detonator and rockets were delivered by Cuban females

to Juan Garcia Cardenas, who was associated with the Cuban Power

group of Orlando Bosch Avila in Miami which had claimed credit for

numerous bombings.

105-175210-16 p.3

(28,303

Jose Yeber, 3094 NW 13th St., Miami, Florida, on 9/18/68

advised that he knew of no past, present or proposed bombing activities

by him or any other persons.

He stated he had never met Orlando

Bosch, and did not know Bosch's associates, who were suspected of

placing bombs on ships.

105-175210-17 p.2

(37)

MM-974-s on 9/26/68 advised that he had received information

that Evaristo Garcia Sarmiento had replaced Julio Carlos Perez Y

Perez (105-165140) as the liaison man between Orlando Bosch, head of •

the MIRR and the CNM, Miami. It was reported that Perez had been

replaced

as a result of a disagreement on tactics with Bosch. It was

also indicated that the CNM people were angry with Bosch because they

believed that the MIRR was responsible

for placing a bomb near a flower

shop which belonged to a

Add. info.

105-165140-15 ep.4

(35)

-15-

SECRET

DocId: 32301721 Page 14

---

## Page 15

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM-974-S on 9/26/68 advised that Armando Fleites, military

leader of SNFE (105-112098) Miami, Florida, claimed that he was

working with another exile leader, Orlando

Bosch, in making plans

for the organization of a group of 100 men to infiltrate Cuba.

$(4)

1057112093-782 ep-1

MM-974-S advised that during a CNM (97-4194) meeting in

Miami, Florida, on 10/5-6/68, CNM members agreed that they were obliged

to support Orlando Bosch Avila, since he had been active in support

of Rivero when the latter was arrested in 1967.gEl U,

It was noted that Felipe Rivero Diaz was the National

Director of the CNM.

Add. info.

91-4194-950 p.2,5

y, 20)

Eduardo Antonio Diaz-Fonseca, 41 Schalk St., Newark, New

Jersey on 10/9/68 during an interview

advised that he had never belonged

to any Cuban refugee or exile organizations including the CNM

(97-4194).

He stated the he had no knowledge of any of the recent

bombings

which had taken place in the US. He further stated

that

he did not know Orlando Bosch Avila.

Add. info.

97. 2791-943 p.191, 32

The following references appearing in the file captioned

Poder Cubano, (Cuban Power)

set out the activities, contacts and

close associates of Orlando Bosch Avila

from 6/3/67 through 10/11/68.

Cuban Power was a new Cuban exile organization composed of

top leaders of MIRR, headed by Bosch.

Bosch claimed that this

organization was responsible for sending of explosives in packages

by mail to Cuba. Bosch indicated that the objective of the Cuban

Power organization was to stop: the sending of parcels to Cuba.

(continued)

-16-

DocId: 32301721 Page 15

---

## Page 16

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

(continued)

Cuban Power also claimed credit for other violent acts in

the US and Cuba.

On 8/25/68 representatives of other groups of

individuals, who had utilized the name Cuban Power in their bombing

activities,

used by Bosch, and agreed to discontinue all bombing activities in

the US. in favor of the program of Bosch, that of stopping all shipping

to Cuba.

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

105-176790-21 ep. 1-6,9,18-20

-23 p.4

-3

ep. 2,4

-36

-39

p.2

2

-91

-119

-202

ep

3

ep.

2

1

-211

-225

ep

-236

1

-252

2

.4

3,4

3

2

-269

e

-279

3

-280

-281

-287

-293

-294

1

e

p.

ep.

1

p.1,2

p

1

7

2,3

-296

p

-323

p.

-329

p.1

-341 p.1

MM-635-S on 12/16/68 advised that when Manuel Felipe Rivero

Diaz (97-4041) was in jail, Orlando Bosch Avila called the exiles into

a one-day general strike in Miami to show support for Rivero.

When Bosch

was arrested on 10/11/68 in Miami, Rivero felt obliged to do something

for Bosch but lacked the political stature and leadership to cause

any demonstrations or public protests. coUl)

Add. info.

97-4041-48 p.4

04, 2

-17-

SECRET

DocId: 32301721 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

•SECRET

(continued)

• MM-974-S on 11/13/68 advised that Miguel San Pedro was

one of the leaders involved in organizing the

'Committee to Fight

for the Liberation of Orlando Bosch"

Inis committee attempted to

raise money to be used in obtaining the release of Bosch. Mill

Add. info.

105-165031-13 ep.1,3

(35)

• Dr. Juan Nordelo, chief, Department of Obstetrics and

Gynecology, Vice President of Hospital Staff, Man Appalachin Regional

Hospital, Man, West Virginia, advised on 12/5/68 that he and Landelino

Hernandez (105-178553) had been active in a group,

Movement of the Revolutionary Students, which was led by Dr. Orlando

Busch,

at the University of Havana,

Havana, Cuba (date not given).

Nordello noted that Dr. Busch was

at. this time awaiting Federal Court

action on charges pending in Miami, Florida.

Add. info.

105-178553-17 ep.2

(50)

The following references on Orlando Bosch Avila appear in

the main files of

the individuals listed below.

The references set

out the activities, contacts and close associations of Bosch with these

individuals in connection with the MIRR, which was headed by Bosch.

The MIRR was a small action group of anti-Fidel Castro Cuban exiles

located in Miami, Florida.

Since 1961 the numbers of the MIRR, under

the direction of Bosch, have been involved in numerous and continuous

revolutionary activities such as bombing raids, attempted raids,

sabotage, demonstrations and propaganda.

In June, 1967, Bosch was

working and coordinating his plans

the CNM.

This information covered the period 1961 through 12/13/68.

INDIVIDUAL

REFERENCE

Luis Carlos Bertot

105-169474-1 ep.1-4

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

g. 361

(continued)

-20- SECRET

DocId: 32301721

Page 17

---

## Page 18

PReleased under;the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

(continued)

REFERENCE

97-4474-576 ep.1

-578

p.2

-579

ep. 1

-580

ep. 2

-585

-589

ep.1

p.1

-592

ep. 1

-595

ep. 1

-598

ep.1-4

-601

p.1

-608 ep. 1,2

-609 p.1,2

-613

97-4474-A "Miami News" 7/20/67

97-4474-1 Washington "Evening Star'' 10/11/68

SECRET

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

32

32, 40)

, 38)

(10)"

33)

(83)

(70, 73)

*****

REFERENCES NOT. INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY

The following references on Orlando Bosch Avila, Orlando

"Ernesto"

, located in files maintained in the Special

File Room of the Records Branch, Files and Communications Division,

were not, reviewed and it is not known whether that are identical with

the subject of this summary:

REFERENCE

64-330-210-1-168

64-330-210-6-32

+64-330-234-370

97-4474-491

-604

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(5)

SECRET

(57 )

(51)

(3,24)

8, 31

(20, 33)

-24-

DocId:32301721 Page 18

---

