# docid-32294000

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10212-10276

RECORD SERIES: • HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-339235-405

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MARTIN, ROBERT ALLEN

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/11/1972

PAGES: 20

SUBJECTS :

SHF, RES, EMP, RCF, TRA, HK, TOLL CALLS, SUBSCRIBERS,

IDENTITY, ASSOC, RES, EMP, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

N9.1

DocId: 32294000

Page 1 :

37

---

## Page 2

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USe 2107 Hote)

DATE :

FD 265.

11-14$2917

EDERAL

SUREAD OF INV

STIGATION!

REPÓRTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

OFFICE ON ORIGIN

NEW YORK

°AUG. 11 1972

INVESTIGATIVE FERIOD

12/31/71 - 7/17472

TITLE OF CASE

SUSAN HEILIGMAN

ANK aka

REPORT MADE BY

ROBERT AGIEN MARTIN

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

? m

BRE

ENCES

AIION

SHOWN

112x2

DUNERWISE

1448510160

0(6)

(TFK 1 72/88.

CLASSIEED BY

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

IS

-

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIPCATION AND/OR

RELEARE L4

I INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K 9-22-97

NYrep of EDWIN YEE, 1/21/72.

Ottawa lets

2/15 and 23/72

2/24/72

Union"

contrite to are daniigned,

captioned "Revolutionary 10-3-97

"USOPFA."

(JFK)

Legat

to Bu,

2/29/72.

NYlets

Lecat

to Bus

5/18/72.

yu Ottaws

lets

tO

BUl,

3/22/72 and 6/27/72

SDlet

B119

4/11/72.

BUle

Blig.

4/28/72

CGlet

I. V1

Bu

4/28/72

5/5172.

DEle

13

5/22/72

LAlet

U

5/20/72.

12/12/ge

MIlet

Bu

6/7/72.

NKlet

to

Bil,

6/22/72.

-P-

Bast

(JEK).

to

CONVIC

AUTO.

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

TIMONE

RECOVERIES

JACQUIT:

TALS

1004

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

EYES DINO

DYES LINO

APPROVED

COMESMADES

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureal

(200-339235)

Secret

Service

NYC

( P.M)

(RM)

Boston

(105-70348)

(RM)

1

- Chicago

{100-41353

2

- Newa?k

(105-14316)

(RM)

- Philadelphia (RM)

2 - Now York: (100-42479)

(1- 100-107383) 1R.

FRANK)

Dissemination Record of Attached Repo:+

2RAO

SS

CIA

State

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

100-339-235-405

I AUG 17 1972

EX T15

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Frid.

By

9-55 7a

9-5-72

R/S

RS

AR/mia

A2

mia

8 0 SEP 8 1972

F428

1324

9-5-72

R/s

трі

9-3-72.

NIS

SECRET.

0F0 3 1971--448-521

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32294000 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the Jöhn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 100-42479

ADMINISTRATIVE

Two copies of FD-376 are attached.

Referenced

Legat, Ottawa letter, dated 3/22/72.

reported

that SUSAN WARREN

was contacted on 2/11/72 by PRC

Embassy

oficials in Ottawa and asked to come to Ottawa. (S)

"She arranged to visit the Embassy on 2/26/72.

The

purpose of her visit was unknown and it is not known if

she in fact visited the Embassy as planned.

This information

was not included in the report since it is not to be

disseminated without RCMP authority. (S)

NY Telephone records were checked by SA FRANK J.

MEYERS; American

Fxoress

records by SA WALTER C. LINA;

Chemical Bank records separately by SA GERARD A. PONDO and

EDWIN YEE.

Investization from various divisions in instant

report was first reported in appropriate relets.

For the

sake of brevity, orly positive information was included

in the report and certain calls were not included, such

as calls to close relatives or

to well-known companies.

Calls not yet identified at Philadelphia and

Boston will

be included in the next report.

ANAEGEII, who works

in the Guggenheim Laboratory, Princetor

Bonklet reported that a DaVIden Jersey, may

possibly be identical: with a D.W. NAEGELI,

who had been

called by subject.

Leads to further identify this

individual are set out below.

that matter and for Boston and Philadelphia since investigation

is pending there concerning this matter.

- B

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32294000 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Heleased under the

John'T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 100-42479

INFORMANTS

NY T-1 is a knowledgeable source in a position to have

such information.

NY T-2 is NY 694-S, used to characterize RICHARD FRANK.

NY T-3 is source

Sentioned in rechaintel, dated 2/24/72.

NY I-4 i say 18)-S contacted by SA EDWIN yEE.

NY

1-51: 2455 eportre du mecca sal 09 415/77:

NY T-6 is NY 6729-S, contacted by SA ROBERT K. STONER.

Ty IT IS EO392S31

I-D 1SEiX 526495-300

NY I-9 is Special

Legat,

Hong Kong Police.

noterencen

Branch,

as reported in

Hong

Kong letter, dated 2/29/72.

NY T-10 is CSNY-1.

NY I-Il is former NY 1045-S, used to characterize IRA GOLLOBIN.

NY T-12

is RCMP as

reported in referenced Legat, Ottawa letter,

dated 6/27/72.

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32294000

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy AsSassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote]

DATE: 11-14-2017

• F'D÷305 (Rev. 3-9-72)

NY 100-427.79

-GIC

1. IX) Subject's name is/included in the ADEX., Category JI DIl

DJ III

•2. [X] The data appearing on the ADEX Card are current.

GIV

3. [J Changes on the ADEX Card are necessary and Form FD-122 submitted to the Bureau.

4. DJ A suitable photograph Kis

_is not available.

Date photograph was taken

5. EJ Subject is employed in a ley facility and

_ is charged with

security responsibility. Interested agencies are

6. [X This report is classified "Secret--No Foreign Diseminatio

because

(state reason) it contains information.

GrOm NY 0 0392

nd

also information

so classfied by

Youd also be classier contentiar

Hong

• Kons)Police

as it contains

from other sources (reCGairtels. of

inforpation

continuine value,

the

unauthorized disclosure of which

would be

prejudicial

to the

national defense interest.

7. 1X1 Subject previously interviewed (dates 4/ 5/59; 2/13, 3/28, 6/28, 2nd 12/12/62.

[X] Subject was not (J interviewed [ reinterviewed because (state reason)

• She has been uncooperative on several occasions and ther is

no reason to, believe she would be cooperative at this time.

8. 27 This: case. no longer meets the ADEX criteria and a letter has been directed to the Bureau

recommending cancellation.

9. X This case has been reevaluated in the light of the ADEX criteria and it continues to fall

within the criteria of Category marked above because (state reason)

former members

of PIP have identified subject as being closely

with

the fur on 5/3/69.: She aimitted toCG 5*51

hat she wrote

articles fo? the PIP

spoke in their behalf, and

continued to be

sympathic to them he travelled to Mainland China in August,

i can sent contact of PRC establishments in the

Category l! JI DIll IV because (state reason She has been in

frequent contact with

: the PROMUN and TANG Ming-chao, suspected

Chicom agent

<^4)

11. C7 Security Flash Notice (FD-165) to Identification Division:

= Submitted

Placed O Yes

No

(date)

• Subject is Extremist in Category I of ADEX and Stop Notice has been placed with the

Bureau Stop Index.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32294000 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under, the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 100-42479

Contacts With People's Republic of China Establishments

-rom February to June, 1972, NY I-I and NY T-9

advised that SUE WARREN had been in contact with the People's

Republic of china Mission to te United Nations (PRCMUN) ,

Nic, on the following sates: february 9, february 19,

March 15, March 31, April 5, April 5,

Apri] 7, April 14,

April 24,

May 2,

May 11, May 22, May

23, May 30, June 12,

and June 8,

these contacts

were with HO Li-liang,

the United Nations (UN). The matters discussed for the most

part concerned

the giving of Chinese films

• tO SUE WARREN for

use at various

presentations, the purchasing of ping pong

tickets by sue wARReN, and the rental of movie projectors by

the PROMUN, through SUE WARREN's husband: (4)

Travel

On January 26, 1972, NY I-9 advised that SUE FRANK

was in Hong Kong from October

She travelled on

fs PaSsport 3A16 921'50 and ember her address

is 110 christopher Street.

NYC. She left Hong Kong for NYC

via Japan Airlines, flight # d1502.(5)

• Telephone Toll Calls

On February 28, 1972, records of the New York

, SUSAN FRANK'S telephone

the frequency of the calls made.

Also included is any subsequent investigation further identi-

fying the subscribers of

the numbers called. Unless otherwise

noted, the subscribers were ascertained through the appropriate

area telephone or city directories:

÷ 3-

SECRET

DocId: 32294000 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John I. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

Peeri

NY 100-42479

On April

3,

1959,

Ny I-ll advised that reportedly

IRA GOLLOBIN at one

time

was a member of the CPUSA.

5.

Woodstock

914-679-8

Seven calls.

STEVE

ATTEN

3.J 01d Nagon Road

Woodstock, NY

Records of the NY Menhone Company were caused

to be checked and reflected that STEVE SATTEN is employed

as a musician with the Sunrise Band.

Records of the NYO of the FBI contain no information

identifiable with STEVE SATTEN.

Canada (5)

Ottawa

Ontario

513-234-8424

one call Jes)

On June 21, 1972, NY I-12 advised that this number

is listed

to the New

china' News Agency. (S)

The New China News Agency is the official news agency

of the People's Republic of China

Weston,

Ontario

635-3244

One call

On June 21, 1972.

NY T-2 advised that this number

in Film.

He resided in Raleigh, North Carolina, from 1962-

1965, employed by the North Carolina Film Roard and in 1967

resided at 4 Rustic Lane, Green Farms, Connecticut.

Information concerning the above toll calls should

be made public. only through

issuance of a subpoena duces tecum

directed to any officer, vY

Telephone Company, 140 West Street, NYC.

- 9-

SECRET

DocId: 32294000 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collectión Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Mate).

DATE: 11-14-017

•FD-323 TReV. 11,29-61)

In Reply, Please Refer no

File No.

UNLIED STATES DEPARTMENT OF USTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

AUG 1 1 1972

Title

Susan Heiligman Frank

Character

Internal. Security - China

Reference

is made to NY report of SA

ROBERT ALLEN MARTIN, dated and cpationed as above.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

information in the past.

NY T-9 is

a confidential source abroad.

NY I-12 is a confidential source abroad. (5)

This document contalns neither recommendations nor conclusio.is of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBl and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

SECRET

DocId: 32294000

Page 8

---

