# docid-32339683

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/9/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90150-10179

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 64-42454-18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/10/1961

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

ANTULIO RAMIREZ ORTIZ

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

w9.1

NW 45899 DocId: 32339683

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

EL PIRATA

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

COFRESI

DATE

5/10/61

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/1 - 5/8/61

REPORT MADE BY

JOHN MARTIN DOGGETT

CHARACTER OF CASE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

IS: - CUBA

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K 8.27.98

APPROS

RIATE AGENC

REFERENCES

SID/KSR

AND FIELSOFFIC

bureau teletype, 5/3/61

9-9-98 SPEED

TUNG

DATE

Miami teletype, 5/4/61.

NY teletype, 5/4/61.

10

TYPED BY

dmg

h3l6

ADMINISTRATIVE

10/11/95

Referended Bureau teletype requested the NY to

interview ALBERTO FERNANDEZ Of the unidad Revolucionar 1o

regarding the possible identity of the subject.

Referenced, A

Miami teletype reflects that FERNANDEZ was interviewed by

that office and the results of the interview were made

available to the Bureau inthe Miami communication.

-PROFFTATE MORA

DID ONT

SETAGE. E TXT. BYS

ADVICE

APPROVED

SLIP (3

COPIES MADE:

DATE ACE

TING "

sit cater

• SPECIAL AGEI

IN CHARGE

INFORMATION CONTA

HEREIN IS UNCIAS.

EXCEFT WHERE SHOWN

FASON-F2-P

YAN I REVIE

DO NOT WR

1T:04k

- 42754-18 REC 47

2

Bureau

(RM)

Miami (RM)

APPROFAI

Arrackey York (105-48035)

AND FIE

OFFI

• 125

14 MAY 12 1961

2

F:

JATE

58176

semination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

AAG yearly

AAG BillIN- 2N1-051-62

Request Recd.

StATe-

Date Fwd.

5-87

How Fwd.

By

w/nitation

prime Certai

intitled

Anto Lis Rainin

ORtiz,

aKEl

TAT.

MAY 2219612220

N9

NH 45899: DocId:32339683 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 105-48035

ADMINISTRATIVE (CONTINUED)

The ITSA aspects of this investigation have not been

included in this report and will be handled as a separate

case by the office of origin as per Bureau instruction in

referenced teletype.

4

As reflected in referenced Ny teletype, the NYC

loes not anticipate interviewing DAN BRIGHAM at the "NI

Journal American" without specific Bureau Instructions 4

INFORMANT

Identity of Source

NY T-]

File # Were Located

134-5785:

OTHER 4

PSI;

Careful consideration has been given to the source

concealed and a

• T symbol was utilized in this report only

In that instance where the identity of the source must be

concealed.

4

CLASSIFICATION

This report has been classified "Secret" because

the unauthorized disclosure of the information contained

therein may yery possibly result in the identification of

the source who represents good double agent potential anc

could compromise his future effectiveness.

- B*

COVER PAGE

NW 45899 DocId: 32339683 Page 3

---

