# docid-32312724

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/10/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10324-10473

RECORD SERIES: NY

_AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-1792-4091

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/13/1964

7

FPCC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 54462 DocId: 32312724

Page 1

33

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAN

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CAFE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA

COMMITTEE OF THE INSTITUTE

FOR THE IMPROVENENT OF INTER-

AMERICAN RELATIONS, INCORPOR-

ATED aka Fair Play for Cuba

Committee (FPCC)

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

8/13/64

1/14 - 3/5/611

REPORT MADE BY

JAMES

N.

KENNEDY, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

RA-CUBA

IS-CUBA

IS-C

IS-SWP

TYPED B

har

REFERENCE:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN

IS UNCLASSIFIDD LAUZZI TARRE

SHOWN OTHERWIS

CLASS BY.

sp8m 317/05

DATE OF REVIEN UNDR

Report of SA JAMES N. KENNEDY, JR.

at New York.

dated 4/27/64,

Bulet to New York dated, 5/15/64.

-

ADVI

ADMINISTRATIVE:

183

Referenced Bureau letter instructed New York to

place captioned matter in a pending inactive status for a So

day period and then to surep and recommendations as

action.

to further

In view of the complete lack of FFCC activity, it is

believed that this case should be closed.

A characterization of the FPCC is set out in the

appendis section of this report in order that all offices

receiving the report will have the latest ICC characterization.

in their possession.

APPROVED

COPIES MADES

• - Bureau (97-415

1

INS, NYC

(RI)

- G-2, NYC

ARM

- ONI, NYC

RM

- OSI, NYC

(RM)

- New York (97-1792)

COPIES CONTINUED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

97-179214094

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Reed.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

Notations

CLASSIFIED SK 5668 SLO/GEL

DECLADARY ON

20/0x4

CONISPIHIAL

NW 54462 DooId: 32312724

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 97-1792

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY T-1

NY 3467-S

-2-0

NY 5367-

Tale Number Where Located

Instant report

Instant report

NY T-3

Instant report

NY 31645

CLASSIFICATION:

This report is being classified "Confidential"

because it contains information furniched by a confidential

informant of continuing value, the unauchorized disclosure

of which could jeopardize the security and future efrective-

ness of

said informant and prove harmful to the national

defense.

COVER RAGE

TWITTAT

NH 54462 DocId: 32312724 Page 3

---

