# docid-32329474

## Page 1

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 HoteT.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90086-10131

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 87-76541-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

OT

TO: OT

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/25/1964

1

[Restricted]

JOSEPH STEIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LET; ENCLOSURE

9.1

DocId: 32329474

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F: Kennedy Assassination Records-Collection et of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hotey,

DATE: -11-14-2017

ALL CORRESPONDENCE TO

BE ADDRESSED:

THE COMMISSIONER

ROYAL CANADIAN MQUINTED POLICE

OTTAWA 8, CANADA

TOUTE CORRESPONDANCE DOIT

ÊTRE ADRESSÉE COMME SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE

GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANADA

OTTAWA 8, CANADA

HEADQUARTERS - DIRECTION GÉNÉRALE

YOUR NO.

VOTRE

OUR NO.

NOTRE NO

87-632

64HQ-290-H-8

OTTAWA % CANADA

September 25, 1964.

Mr. Moss Lee Innes,

c/o U.S. Embassy,

Ottawa, Ontario.

Re: Joseph I. STEIN; Leonard B. STALLMAN;

Felix A. ALDERISIO

DBA First National

Vortgage Company, #1 East Wacker Drive,

Chicago, Illinois.

This has reference to your correspondence of

30-Jul-o4, with attachments,

and will confirm our

telephoned advice on 26-Aug-64, that Joseph J. KHATTAR

of Sydney, Nova Scotia, was then on vacation.

2.

We are forwarding herewith a copy of our

Sydney Detachment report dated 13-Sept-64, with single

copy of the attachments referred to therein, for your

information.

with the first National Mortgage Company of Chicago,

that Khattar's Realties Ltd.

of Detroit, Michigan,

to look after their interests

concerning their dealings with the First National

Mortgage Company.

As will be noted in para. 7

Khattar's Realties' retainer of $5,000.00 has been

returned by First National Mortgage Company®

StoMaca

E.L. Martin, supt.

Officer in Charge, Criminal

Investigation Branch.

Encls.

76541-11

NCLOSURE

DocId: 32329474 Page 2

---

