# docid-32306757

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 05C 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10290-10397

HQ

92-6054-3RD NR 2310

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, MM

DATE: 04/18/1968

'PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, OC, IDENT, CIP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32306757

Page 1

26

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

199

SAC, Miami (137-2308)

Apr11 38, 1968

Director, TBI (66-2542-11-29)

TOP ECHKLON CRIMINAL

INFORMANT PROGRAM;

LA COSA NOSTRA

ANTI-BACKSTESKING

1 - Ar. Varo

1 - Me. Baery

It has been previously pointed out that one of our

primary goals in tho Criminal Intolligenco Progzan is the fullo

idontification and subsequent prosecution of the nonbership 03 La

Cosa Nostra (ICI), the dominant group in organized crime in thie

With an ever-inoressing publie awarenoss of the slenifi-

cance of ICH on a national baste and in consideration of the Bureau's

vast responsibilities in the field of organized orine, 1t te

secossary that

conplete intelligence be developed regarding, 10h.

A revier of progross reportod in the Identification of

nenbers of ICH reveals that a subatantial buster, have been

Adentified, However, a roysen of monthly airtels subaltted by

your office regarding accomplichments in the Crintant Intolligense

Program discloses that within the past one-year period, the number

MaTes

of IC nonbers identified as residing within your division bas

incressed by only one tron 20 to 21.

It is noted that the original

intornation identifying 20 of these individuals nas not provided

It 1a rocognized that Ill 1231-C-T5y An adnitted membor

of ICH, bas idontified sone ICH senbers zesiding Outside of your

division and.

in addition, has sade available data contiring the

menbership of sone ICN manbers within your division.

This source

an exceptional potential to assist your office in identifying

activity vithin your division.

Every effort muat be made to

utilize bia full potential to the Bureau's advantage.

92-6054

Particular expbasis should be placed

spon obtaining member-pources who are affiliated vith Santo

Trafticante.

There exists an urgent neod for the Xiani Office to

develop sources who can accurately identify the LCY nonbership

operating under the direction of Trafficante.

No appreciable

2E06

been reported by your office in this regard.

-92-605 (LCH)

NOT RECORDES

- 2001

(IM 1231-C-TE)

JEASJRY

DUPLICATE YELLOW LE 1988

B5 APR 251968

300-028

DocId: 32306757

Page 2

---

