# docid-32337743

## Page 1

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90138-10012

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 39-2591-46

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI -

FROM: PAPICH

TO : BRENNAN

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/29/1963

1

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

FERNANDO FUENTES COBA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32337743

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Aot of 1992

144

Ust

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10:

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

D. J. BRENNAN,

L DATE: March 29, 1963

FROM

S. J. PAPICH

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

SUBJECT:

FERNANDO FUENTES COBA

IS - CUBA

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOGUMENT. Wank

KP 3-19-48

LAUGCLASSIFIED

EXTERE

WISE

HE

has come to ie attention of the Bureau in the past. We have

a Cuban who reportedly defected in Newfoundland,

disseminated information to

Intelligence Agency (CIA):

interested agencies, including Central

и)

Agency was giving consideration to arranging

Austin Horn, CIA, advised that his

the U.S. so that

subject's entry into

he could be interviewed by CIA. The purpose of

such interview would be to gain information concerning activities

and conditions in Cuba.

the receipt of

If CIA took such action, it would involve

approval from Immigration and Naturalization Service

(INS). If subject entered the country under this arrangement, ClA

would

make him available to us for an interview.(R)U)

Horn was told that there is a pending Registration Act

investigation concerning subject and if he entered the U.s., we

Intended to interview him as soon as possible.

It was further

28

Classified

Declassify

5668540

OADR

with

subject. Horn was

interview subject

also told that we have requested RCMP to

) и)

Horn then stated that in view of the information furnish

Dy the Liaison Agent, ClA will be reconsidering its position int

this matter.

Horn fully understands that the Bureau is to be

immediately advised if the Agency receives any information indica-

ting that Cobà is coming into the U.S. and this will include any

travel which possibly might be arranged or supported by CIA (Ku

The above information is being directed to the attention

of the Nationalities Intelligence Section.

I - Mr. WannalI ECLASSIFIED BY 5069 SUDASR

1

1

- Mr. Nasca

4-1-98

- Liaison

REC- 45

1 - Mr. Papich

55

56 APR A 1953

SECRET

# APR 2

37:9591-46

1963

39-2591

DocId: 32337743 Page 2

---

