# docid-32316415

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10347-10035

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-2830-35

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 11/02/1962

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

JAMES PLUMERI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

NN 45920

DocId: 32316415

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

FD-.

. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/2/62

8/31 - 10/25/62

REPOEARKRSEY. MILLER

ABRAHAM CHAIT, aka

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

REFERENCE

Report of SA JAMESSAN. O'DELLE, New. York, 8/15/62.

-P-

ENCLOSURES TO BUREAU (2)

Original and one copy of letterhead memorandum

characterizing informants utilized in instant report.

ADMINISTRATIVE

NY T-1, in instant report, advised SAS HARRIS J.

gave a reason for his statement. This information is set out in

the details of this report.. In addition to that information,

the informant gave the following additional reason for his

statement that FREIDMAN "was with ABE CHAIT" and this information

is being set forth here so as not to disclose the identity of

the informant.

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

Bureau (92-2830) (fres)

2-USA, SDNY

4-New York (92-644)

1- Cums.

Rept

06-8

1- neve

A LUAE

17J3

9

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2830+

35

REC- 66

6 NOV 5 1962

EX.

-120

ISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPOF

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD...

HOW FWD. ..

BY..

EBI

55 NOV 20 1962

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

NOTATIONS

"ROPIES MANE

FOR RE

TO HOSA iA

(SEE BUNLE

02-1112003

hs 4/28/78

10-76324-1

NW 45920 DocId: 32316415

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-644

NY T-1 advised on October 22, 1962, that he, the

informant, had got an account with Miss

MAUD that FREIDMAN had formerly

had,

and that he got this account by cutting FREIDMAN's prices.

The informant stated that FREIDMAN subsequently contacted him

and taste to oe end of at chatTi an ever L BERMAN 0€

The informant said he then

what FREIDMAN had said. The informant advised that LIEBERMAN, in

the informant's presence, called ABE CHAIT and advised CHAIT that

he, LIEBERMAN, gave CHAIT a lot of business and asked CHAIT to keep

FREIDMAN out of the account.

The informant said he has not heard

anymore about this matter from FREIDMAN.

INDIVIDUALS CONTACTED IN OTHER CASES

OTHER 4

JAMES RUBERTONE of Master Truckmen of America was

contacted, as set out in the details of this report, in connection

with the investigation of JOHNNY ODDO, NY file 92-673.

LOUIS SCHRAGER, mentioned

as an associate of ABE

CHAIT, in instant report,

is the subject of a pending ITAR-Gambling

investigation, NY file 166-50, in which Miami is the office of

origin.

GEORGE KAPLAN, attorney for Master Truckmen of America,

as mentioned in instant

report, was contacted in the case relative

to JOSEPH STRACI, NY file 92-686.

INFORMANTS

CONTACTED BY

VY T

SAS THEODORE F. BRUHL and

JOHN R. KINSINGER (9/5/62)

SAS THEODORE F. BRUHL and

HARRIS J. MILLER (10/22/62)

NY T-2

SA JOSEPH GAMBLE

NY 2512-C

NY T-3

SA THEODORE F. BRUHL

Former PCI

_COVER PAGE

-B-

:""

NW 45920 DocId:32316115 Page 3

92

---

## Page 4

NY 92-644

INFORMANTS (CONT'D)

NY T-4

NY 99-C

CONTACTED BY

SA ARTHUR P. DUFFY

Careful consideration was given to each source

concealed and T symbols utilized only in those instances where the

identities of the sources must be concealed.

LEADS

NEW YORK

At New York, New York

Will maintain contact with NY I-l, in instant

report, for any information he may obtain relative to subject.

Will determine the principals in the firm

Barony Fashions, 501 Seventh Avenue, New York City.

Will attempt to determine data redative to

Philip Wise Stores, such as the principals in this firm, and

specifically information relative to their having gone bankrupt, to

determine if subject ever connected with the firm in any way.

COVER PAGE

gt1-10083

HW 45920

DocId: 32316415

Page 4

---

