# docid-32334594

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90116-10300

RECORD SERIES:

MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-4921-82

Released under the John

F. kenned!

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53074 Date:

05-30-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

12/21/1964

• PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

HH 53074

DooId: 32334594

Page

1

---

## Page 2

ALL INFORZATION COUTANE

HEREIN 'S

ĐAT: 4/7/0

SNOLASGHT

BY 566

97980

CONEIBENTIAL

DIRSCTOR, FBX (62-107261)

ЗАС, ПІДНІ (105-4921)

12/21/64

SUUTORRATTOY SATA

HARE NOT LETPLED

EXCEPT WHERE SHONA

OTHERNISE.

"MINUTCHEN"

INFORMATION CONCEENING

(INTERNAL SECURITY)

Decless tre: CADR413184

(00: KANSAS CITY)

211,826

Re Tampa letter to Bureau dated 12/7/64, advising

that an individual residing within the Taupa Division had

received "Hinutenen" applicetion forms and other literature

with return address of Pedce Foundation, P. D. Box 800,

Hollywoode Florida.

on 18/10/6

AT• DONALD WILLIANS, Superintendent

Hollywood

Florida Post OIlice (protect), advised

that P. 0, Box 800 has been rented since 3/6/0, to an

individual who identified himself as JOHN CARE, home address

shown as 1513 Hollywood Boulevard, Hollyrood, Florida.

No mention was made of peace Foundation nor did the

application reflect any additional information.

address as 1513 Bollywood Boulevard.

is & vacant lot.

Local directories and indices of this office reflect

no identifiable information on a JOHN CARR.

The above address as well as the name of the person

renting that post office bos is abviously fictitlous.

Superintendent of Mails MLiAls during the inter-

view checked the above post office box and determined

that

it

contained & 4th class package, approximate size 199 x 91 &

2".

It was addressed to JOHN CARR,

P. O. Box 800, Hollywood,

Florida, with a return address as Post Office Boz 172,

' Independence,

Missouri.

2 - Bureau (R™)

2

- Kansas City

(64-7797) (RH)

• Fampa

(100-388)

(AM)

L• 10510434969

{1

18404531

• 01

JHD: BBI

(8)

9718

1105-4921-82

Sear Ma

Incored..

Filed

CONFIDENTIAL

HH 53074 DooId:32334594

Page 2

---

## Page 3

N4 105- 4932

CONFIGENTIAL

Nr, WILLIAMS noted that the above prokage had been

damaged in the mails and was practically open. On his ove

initiative, he said he had the responsibility and authority to

examine the contents to determine if the sender had possibly

enclosed let class mail in a 4ch class package.

Upon exanination of the package, he stated it con-

tained "Minutenen" literatur datababe, one teeral tant Torme

$ Dotense Against Connubion,

(which would apparently deplot background information on

prospective members) and leaflets concerning "Sileneers"

on firearms.

LACE, Mama plans to maintain contact with ir.

DONALD WILLIANS, Suporintendent o. lails, tollywood, Lorida,

learn whether a "Minutenen" organization le

notive within the liant Division.

In an effort to develop sources regarding this

organisation, this office is also considering having MN 639-8

correspond with Minutenen Headquarters, Norborne, Miasours,

to gain memberghip.

As the Dureau te aware,

MM 639-S has been a paid

Informant of this offsce since 1960. le has furnished

considerable intornation during this period in Latin American

matters.

He is an expert in small arns and explosives. He

is also acquainted with sone John Birch Society nembers in

this area and is also personally acquainted with forner U. S.

Army Coneral EDWIN TALKER.

Tor the past seven yeare he has

been involved in Cuban, Haitian and Dominican revolutionary

matters.

He is an Anerioan and highly competent and reliable.

ku)

Due to the above informant's background, it is felt

he would have an excellent chance in obtaining membership

and furnishing infornation regarding captioned organtantion.

this office will take the necessary steps to

place?

0S8OXD

captioned organisation.

и)

CONLPENLINE

- 2 +

CON

ENTIAL!

J01|9-10300

HH 53074 DocId:32334594 Page

3

---

