# docid-32313792

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10332-10066

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-4133-78

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Let of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53130 Date:

05-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: MM

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 11/05/1963

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

SANTIAGO ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, LHM, ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

HH 53130

DocId: 32313792 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CIA HASINO

OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION

AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CLA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMEN

0. 10

• STATI

Memor

NMENT

-um

CONT

XENTAL

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, MIAMI (97-327) (P)

SUBJECT:

MOVIMIENTO RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONARIO! (MRR)

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

NM

DATE: NOV 5

1963

4/2/98

CLASSIFIED

BY 5668-5LD/nick

DECLASSIYY ON 20-0

pla: 6ci.

Re Minneapolis teletype dated 9/30/63 entitled

"ABEL MESA, Neutrality Matters", and Bureau airtel to

Miami dated 10/4/63.

Enclosed herewith are twelve copies of a Letterhead

Memorandum dated and captioned as above.

Copies of this Letterhead Memorandum are being

disseminated locally to CIA, ONI, G-2, INS, OSI, Border

Patrol, US Customs, Miami,

US Customs Region II, Miami,

Coast Guard and State Department, Coordinator of Cuban

Affäirs.

•ACT ENROR

TOM

MM I-1 iS iM 959-S.

on 10614/63 ME. JOSEPH VIDAL, CIA,

that cíA does not have an operacional

HENNISE

went advised

recruitino in Minneapolis or ABEL MESA:/C

U)

VIDAL said CIA has

an operational interest

SAo head of the MR but ony in Artime.

activierer outside the united States

ARI IME doe

tiổncrica.

not

operate ony trashing Campsvin Central

FOr

the information of

the Bureau it

DEE

Paknowledge among the cuban colony in Miami that ARPIME

is public

SID

Numerous Cuban exile leaders point out that the MRR members

themselves claim to have United States backing ARTIME

travels all over Central America, has no problem obtaining

re-entry permits from the US Government,

and neither ARTiME.

or the MRR have any financial problems.

16-98 3 45K

-Bureau (Enc..

12) (RM)

:2-Miami

TORJD:hk

(4)

REC- 117

92- 4133-78

Copy to: CIA/Stats/N8Q

1: Did /Din/customs.

X2 NOV: 7 1960

CLASSMATC

by routing slip

Dale. 1i.

for into.

Dr KAtas

COME

HH

53130

Docid: 32313792

---

## Page 3

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERA BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Miami, Fiorida

COMEIGEITIAL NOV 5

1963

COMFIOENTIAL

AGENCIES

RE:

MOVIMIENTO RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO

(MRR)

ALL THNO

MATION CONTAINED,

HEPE N

APPROPRIATE

'AND FiLTO OFFICES

JUNINT

ADKIERS H

DATE

Imm 639-5

OTHERWISE

MM T-1, who has been

active in Cuban revolutionary

matters for the past six years, advised during July, August

and september, 1963 that MANUEL ARTIME BUESA continues to be

the head of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario (MRR),

an anti-CASTRO organization which maintains an office at 224

N. E. 23rd Street, Miami, Florida CUl

CoM T-Iadvised that during July, August and

Septem-

ber, 1963, ARTIME's followers were out trying to obtain names

of Cuban exiles in Miami as future recruits for a military

training camp in Central America to be established by ARTIME.

A majority of young Cuban exiles were reluctant to volunteer

and claimed that they would not go to any training camp until

they receive assurance that the United States Government

approves the camp.

Many of the exiles recall the Playa

Giron Invasion failure of Cuba and do not want to be involved

In any future military action that might fail.

had

MM T-1 explained

I that ARTIME's recruiters have

great difficulty in obtaining names of would-be recruits.

The Cuban exiles of military age quickly point

out that ARTIME has no military training or background and

lacks the political backing of the majority of the Cuban

exile leaders.

one of the leading figures in Brigade 2506, that participated

the tendane sures s

They also point out that although ARTIME was

in the Playa Giron Invasion, he does not have the backing

of this organization. D

On September 4, 1963 the "Miami Herald",

daily newspaper published

Exenipula

In Miami, Florida, contained

an article which stated that ARTIME announced he had

warned FIDEL CASTRO RUZ, Prime Minister of Cuba, that

henceforth the MRR would kill three CASTRO men for every

585-71

ARTIME stated that the

beginning of the MRR move to Central America from Miami

had

then underway, that military missions against Cuba

begun and would be accelerated. U

lassifie

SP3 CIC/GA

Declassity on:

OADR

5p8 macade

211,326

CONPXDENTIAL POCATED

HIH

53130

Doc:

d: 32313792

Page 3

---

