# docid-32311582

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote}:

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10318-10063

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 67-383675-839

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MX

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/25/1963

17

JFK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32311582

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FiNI NO. 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Director,

FBI

SECRET

FROMOL Legat,

Mexico CIty, (66-300)

SUBJECT:

PERSONNEL COMPLEMENT

MEXICO CITY OFFICE

DATE:

October 25, 1963

4-2-97

566884/ mude

2/2/98 5FK

CLASCIRED BY 5668 SEDIASR

0:0

CONTA:

ASSIFIED

Ief

In accordance with the instructions received in

conversations with Bureau officials and Supervisors during

the time the miter was at the Seat of Government, analyses

and evaluations with regard to the present personnel

complement of the Mexico City Office have been made.

The

following is submitted In connection with the Director's

desires to make sure that full value is being received in

connection with our foreign operations and to recall personnel

menever possible in order to cut down on the U. S. Government's

dollar drain.

In order to assist the Bureau in reaching a decision

concerning the personnel complement in the Mexico City Office,

certaim background is being set forth:

MEXICO CITY TERRITORY

Mexico has a total-land area of 760, 373 square miles.

this being slightly over one-fifth of the size of the united y

Statesa

Inhabitants.

The 1960 cenaus thomed Mexico to haye 34.938,000

Due to the rapid increase In population,

official estimates place

the total population of Mexico at

sent time at more than 37, 000, 000.

NON.

Mexico 18 divided Into 29

States,

2 Federal

Territories, and the Federal District where the capital city

is located. The following is a breakdown of the territory

8g

covered by the Mexico City Office and the Resident Agencies

located at Monterrey, Guadalejara and Mazatlan:

67-3836751

839

3 - Bureau (Enc. 1) - 11l

(1 - Liaison Section)

Eate

1 • Mexico City

CDA: JIA: PAE NO PRIECTION TO

DEC

ENCLOSURN THE DOUSENT KY 1-15.98

KOA 15

SeB/15k

127.48.

HUA

3 22 6N9

,96

1/10

DocId::

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:, 11-12-201?

MC 66-300

SEGRET

1114924

assignment in Mexico In November, 1960.

In the Resident Agencies, all Agents handle both

criminal and security matters:

PRINCIPAL TYPES OF CASES HANDLED

The Mexico City Office handles practically every

type of case found in the domestic field. Most of the cases

fall into the following general fields:

Criminal cases, the great majority of which have

to do with Bureau fugitives, Selective Service violators

and automobiles and other property stolen in the United States

and brought to either Mexico or Central American countries.

Also included in this category are police checks made for

the Embassy and other U. S. Government agencies.

These are

handled as a gesture of

cooperation with the Embassy and to

avoid interference by representatives of other Goverrment

agencies in our dominant control of the police liaison in

Mexico.

American communists, Including a number of Security

Index subjects who either reside in or visit Mexico.

Border coverage (BOCOV).

States.

Cuban matters, Including travel to and from Cuba

of U. S. cItizens and Intelligence concerning Cuban activities.

Espionage matters.

Due to the presence of a large

Soviet diplomatic establishment in Mexico City, as well as

several satellite diplomatic establishments, this is considered

one of the most important phases of our work here. It has

(5)

=5=

SECA

DocId: 32311582 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the Johr F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MC 66-300

appears to be getting any good, hard Intelligence concerning

the Cuban internal situation on a current basis.

He instructed

me that the Mexico City Office should intensify

its coverage

on Cuban matters, and this is being done.

At the present time

three Agents in the headquarters city spend about one-half of

their time on Cuban matters. One of these three Agents

dedicates the major portion of his remaining time to following

related Latin American matters and to handling physical

security checks of the telephones in the headquarters and

Resident: Agent offices and in the homes of personnel. The

major portion of the remaining time of the second Agent is

dedicated to the handling of the activities of a portion of

the national subversive organizations in Mexico and Chinese

Communist matters, as well as replying to name check requests

name by various Embassy offices.

The third Agent handling

Cuban

matters in addition handles the major portion of the

Ispionage investigations in the office, including the very

important LAROB?and OXBLOOD double agent cases,

and follows (5)

the activities of' Soviet and satellite diplomatic establishments

in Mexico City.

4.

Almost the entire time of one Agent is spent on

following, through informants, the activities of American

Communists, including a number of Security Index subjects, who

It is felt that this coverage

has a vital direct bearing on the internal security of the

United States and should be continued. Through this coverage

it has been possible recently to come up with some highly

valuable information concerning a clandestine leadership branch

of the Mexican Communist Party. The activities of this group,

which activities are apparently unknown to the rank and file of

apparently unk

the regular Mexican Communist Party, are pointed toward the

take over of the Mexican Government from within in the next

five to ten years.

The effect of such a take over in terms of

Mexican-U.S. relations and on the internal security of the

United States is obvious.

So far as is known, neither the CIA

nor any other U.S. Government intelligence agency here had

received any information

on this clandestine leadership branc

of the Mexican Communist Party.

5. As was pointed out above, three Agents are assigned

full time to criminal matters and to maintaining open liaison

with official government agencies, and the Number One Man

supervises all criminal cases

and handles a substantial caseload

in the criminal field. It is felt that the statistics set forth

-15-

(4)

DocId: 32311582 Page 4

---

