# docid-32329038

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC. 2107 Note).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/30/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90084-10019

HQ

105-183815-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

HQ

MM

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/26/1968

ADELA MARIA BATISTA

LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

09.1

DocId: 32329038

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

"DATES 11-11-2017

SAC, Miami

SECRET

Director,

FBI

ADELA MARIA

BATISTA

(nee De La Campa y De La Torre)

IS - CUBA

7/26/68

1 - Mr. Nasca

SONG

ALL INFORMATION CONTATNED

SHORN

OAHMANTI

MAILED 19

JUL 26 1968

COMM - FBI

Tolson

Deloach

Mohr

Bishop

Casper,

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

HolmesH

Ganda

classified by 03 cheel

Declassily on: ONDR

Attached is a copy ofa name check request dated

In the event this

information is subsequently incorporated in material pre-

pared for dissemination, MI-5 should be described as a (5)

confidential source abroad. Classify MI-5 data "Confidential."(5)

On the basis of information furnished no definitely

identifiable information concerning the subject was located

in Bufiles.

However, subject may be identical with the

Adela de la Campa who is mentioned on page three of the

enclosure

to Milet dated 9/20/65 captioned "Movimiento

Democrata Cristiano (MDC), IS - Cuba, NM." This same

communication indicates that Laureano Batista Falla is an

official of the MDC:

In fact, Bufiles contain voluminous

information concerning this individual originating with your

office:

You are requested to determine whether Laureano

Fernando Batista y Falla, mentioned in the attachment, is,

in fact, identical with the individual of the similar name

who is active in MDC affairs.

Review your files concerning the subject and submit

any pertinent information concerning her in memorandum form

suitable for dissemination.

If her husband is identical

with the individual who has been active in NDC affairs,

incorporate. in the memorandum a succinctesummary of pertinent

intormation concerning him with particular emphasis on the

nature and extents* his ipygavement th

anti-Castl8 affairs.

Since the Bureau

10S

contemplates disseminating the

memorandum being prepared by your office to MI-Spany informa-

tion included therein originating with another Government agency

must be cleared with that agency

prior to its incorporation in

the material prepared for dissemination.

Where this is done an

appropriate notation should be made

in the cover communication

accompanying the material prepared for dissemination.

TI-5 interest. (S

LN 8H JUL 29 1966

DocId: 32329038

VHN : sed

(4) /e

SIE WITE UNITE

Page 2

SECRET

---

## Page 3

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATES 11-11-2017

Letter to SAC, Miami

Re:

ADELA MARIA BATISTA

NOTE:

SECRET

advised via liaison that

an inquiry is being made and that

it will be advised.

739038

- 2-

SECRET

1058838151

DocId: 32329038

Page 3

---

