# docid-32319567

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10371-10098

HQ

62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-Q7

i senaton fee don

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

HQ

DATE: 11/07/1975

'PAGES:

190

SUBJECTS :

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, EDWARDS - RUBY

CHICAGO PD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC FOLDER, MEMO, TTY, NEWS ARTICLE, LHM, NOTES, REPORT, COMMEMTARY,

EXCERPT, R/S, A/T

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32319567

Page 1

62

---

## Page 2

Report Fom

870-263 (5-32-55)

FEDERAL

BUREAU

OF INVESTICATION

Reporting Ofüco

DALLAS

TILE OF CASE

Ossoo of Origia

DALLAS

Daro

11/30/63

Ropert made by

CHANGED

JACK Li

-RUBY,

aka.

Jack

MANNING C. CLEMENTS

Rubenstein, Jack Leon Ruby, "Sparky HARACTER OF CASE

LEE HARVEY OSWALD,

aka. Alek James

Ao T. Hidell, O. H. Lae

(Dicased) - VICTIM

CR

Invostigativo Period

11/22 • 30/63

STood I:

DC:I

Synopsis:

Title changed to add nickname "SPARKY" by which subject has

been widely known in Chicago, Illinois.

REFEPENCE

Dallas teletype to Bureau, all Continental Offices, 11/25/63.

-P.

LEADS

NEW YORK • INFORMATION

Infornation copy to New York In view of location of

headquarters of "Fair Play For Cuba Committee" In that division.

ADMINISTRATIVE

IAN 20110 dissemination will be made outside the Bureau except on

instructions.

apprat: 1134-56-0090

Approved

Bpocial Agon!

in Charge

Do not tilto ta spacon bolou

Copiou mados.

5

634

ded 12.11115

F1D DEC 11

8

Bureau

Chicago

(34-645)

Detroit

(44-563)

New

Orleaas

(44-2064)

New York

Dallas

(14-974) (Info)

(44-1639)

1 050

1-10-43

REG 34

Rie le

I JAN

1964

Propoliy of FBI - This report la loomed to you by tha FBI, and solther it nor lls contonis tre lo bo distributed outside tha agescy to which

NW 54462 DooId:32319567 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG L5e88

DI. 44-1639

ADMINISTRATIVE

Files of the chieago orflee reflect the following:

"Chicago Dally Tribuna"

article stating that JO MARTi, President of

O1. December 9, 1939, caried an

Junk Haadlers Union Local 20467.

Sne Scrap Iron

AFL,

attorney for the above

had shot LEON R. COOKE, the

was interrioved ay

According to Lorner CanCe who

Chat fines the Inrornent war then

of Loaning a sival mion arrillated

8 in the process

with

she C10 and

several letters

had written

"Cook"• MARTIN learned of these Letter,

negard which he had simed

double crossed by LEON COOKE,

assuned he was beine

and during

an argument between MARTIN

and COOkE which ensued. MARTIN SaOt LEON COOKE. MARTIN then bes

came a fugitive justles.

OldeT 1, 6141:1.

• ..

?:!:

Cover Page

HH 54462 DooId:32319567

Page 3

---

## Page 4

44-1639

Chicaso 6670-F0 advised SA JOHN R. BASSETT on November 24,

1963 that he had been a close friend of subject RUEY for many years

in Chicago.

This

Informant advised that "SPARKY" was hot tempered

on occasions, but was generaily ot a good disposition.

He stated

that RUBY was

an excellent fist fighter

According to this Informant.

RUBY, In the mid nineteen forg'&, operated a "book"

over a restaurant

located east of Kudrie Avenue on the north side of Roosevelt Road In

Chicago®

subject was

& close friend of one AB&LUCKERMANs also kaown

"ZUCKIE" (phonet?

In the middle nineteen forty's,

according to the Intorant, ZUCKERMAN was shot and the Informant

believed that this occurred because. ZUCKERMAN did not cut LEONARD

PARTIOK, one of Chleago's top hoodlum, In on the profits of his book.

shortly alter this shoocing. PATRICK told the subject to leave town,

accusing him of operating a book without PATRICK's sanction.

PATRICK

warned the subject that

if he did not leave Chicago,

he would "get

what ZUCKIE got"

The subject left Chicago at this time for Dallas,

Texas, where he yan a siub owed by his sister.

Informant advised

that he has not been in touch with the subjest in recent years

and

was coupletely at

loss to understand the subject's action lu shoot.

10g OSWALD.

November 24, 1963, that JACK RUBY had,

1, 1963, that JACK ROsY hase at one time, been ciose to

at one tues

ROSS PRIO, Chicago top hoodlun.

T22s

Informant further advised that

RUBY had been a close friend of one JOE SCARAMUZZo who owns a gun

shop on Halsted Staset near Taylor Streed. In Chicago.

The Chicago

Division records contain no information con-

cerning ABE ZUCKERMAN, alSO known an "ZUCKIE"

The same records

that JOSEPH BCARAMUZZO '1s the owner of Scaramuzzo and Sons

Gunshop, 831 South Walsted Street, Chicago, Il113018•

It should be

that three of the four guas

used by members of

the Nationalist

Party O Fuerto Rico In the shooting at the House of Representatives,

Washington, D. Coa

on March I, 1954, were purchased by one WILLIAM

GALETTY, GarY, Indiane, from Scaramuzzo and Sons, 801 South Halsted

Street, Chicago.

CG 6443-0 advISed SA JOSEPH G. SHEA 05 November 24, 1963,

that he belleved the subject was related in some manner to one HARRY

RUBENSTEIN.

The Infomicant advised that HARRY RUBENSTEIN had owned

the Hotel Olympic on North Clark Street on Chicago's near North side,

approrimately lifteen years ago.

HARRY RUBENSTEIN killed a man 1n

this hotel, but by a payment of

$25,000.00 to a Chicago Police Captain,

was able to lix this charge.

A0c00ding

to this Intormants MARRy enou

RUBENSTEIN has good connections with certain unknow criminals in tha

Chicago area but was not considered by the Inormast to be a member

of the organized Criminal Element In this olty.

Department reflect one HARRY RUBENSTEIN, a hotel owner on the near

North sides

of manslaugater r 1946.

Citt Tore

NW 54462 DooId: 32319567

Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 6690-PC advised

SA JOSEPH G. SHEA or November 24, 1963,

that the subject was related to HARRY RUBENSThIN Wo fomerly operated

two or theee bars in the chicago loop area.

Aesording to the informant.

the subject worked as a bartender for HARRY RUBENSTaIN In & bar at the

Banker's Building In Chieago-X 100D.

This intornant advised that in

1942 or 1943, JACK RUBENSTEIN attempted to enlist In the United States

Navy but was rejected when he railed to pass the physical examination.

The informant deserited JACK RUBENSIEIN as extremely patriotic but

HARRY RUBSTEIN'I peesert hereabouts se soticities.

This informant was unsble to furnish aly information conceming

on

BERNARD GLICKMAN (Protect Identity) advised SA JONN R. BASSETT

November 24, 1963, that he does not know the subject.

GLACKMAN

advised

that he had contaeted a person known to him, whose identity he

would not reveal, who recalled the subject as a friend many years ago

In the area around Independence Boulevard

and Roosevelt Road in Chicago.

According to GLICkMAN, this source stated that the sublect was not

connected with the criminal elements Chieago.

that RUBENSTEIN was good natured but on occasion was extramely hot

tempered.

According to inis source, the subject had left Chicago In

, the late

1940's for Dallas, Texas,

where he operated a club belonging

to his sister®

GLICKMAN advised that he had made an unsuccessful

attempt

to contact ANTHONY ACCARDo in an effort to obtain Information

concerning the subject.

It should be noted that ANTHONY/ACCARDO-19 a high ranking

member of Chicago's criminal element.

BERNARD-GLICKMAN 15 known to

be a close associate of many of chicago's top'echelon criminals and

has, in recent years, been active is the management of several ranking

prize fighters.

All other Chicago Informants negative and Chicago files

reflect no intonation pertaining to subject's involvement with chicago

criminal element.

H

Cier Forge

HH 54462

DooId: 32319567

Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 44-645

DI 44-1639

WER: eab.

CG 6498-PC was contacted by SA WILLIAM E, ROMER, On

11/25/63, but at that time had no person knowledge of RUBY.

11/26/63, CG 6498-PC advised that he had solicited information from

politicians of the 24th Ward, the former voting residence of RUBY.

PC advised that he talked to two persons who appeared to know RUBY

Irom many years ago.

They advised that RUBY was never anything but

"a punk" and never hai any hoodlum connections or associations. one

person advised that he recalls that RUBY attempted to sneak into a

prize fight in Chicago, believed to be the second DEMPSEY - TUNNEY

fight, and was caught by a police officer who beat him over the head

with his night stick. As a result of this beating, RUBY now has a

plate in his head. Apparently this causes pressure when RUBY becomes

excited and causes RUBY to act emotionally.

Cover Pook

HW 54462 DocId: 32319567 Page 6

---

## Page 7

DI. 44-1639/cv

ADMINISTRATIVE

DN 249-C frequented Clover Bar next door to Sherman Hotel,

Chicago, Illinois, 1940 to 1949. He described this bar as a hangout

for the hoodlum element.

At that time it was operated by.-IRA" COLIIZ

who was described as a personal friend of Colonel JACOB ARVEY, a well

known Chicago political figure. COLiTZ possibly was recently

candidate

• for Aldermen in Chicago and resides in penthouse apartment

on Michigan Boulevard.

The informant related JACK RUBY, whom he identified from

newspaper photographs, frequented the Clover Bar in about 1946 or

1947 and was an acquaintance of IRA COLITZ and possibly wes a former

school mate of COLITZ on the west side of Chicago. He does not know

the nature of RUBY's activities in Chicago.

The Informant stated that in about December, 1949, he was

in Dalias, Texas, at which time RUBY was operating a night club,

name unknown, with western band and western motif. The informant

visited this club and chatted briefly with RUBY who requested that

he convey RUBY's regards to COLITZ when the informant returned to

Chicago.

The informant has not seen or heard from RUBY since 1949

and has never had any specific information concerning RUBY's back-

ground or sctivities but has never had any reason to suspect him

of veing invr ved in subversive activities.

Cover RarE

HH 54462 DocId: 32319567

Page 7

---

