# docid-32129553

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DДZ501411-14-2017

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search.

Viewing/Ordering Information.

Exit JFK

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10035-10387

RECORDS SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-82555-1ST NR .2506

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : BRANIGAN,

W. A.

TO : SULLIVAN,

W. C.

TITLE : [No Title]

DATE

: 03/04/1964

PAGES

: 3

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS

: LHO, RP, ACT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/01/1997

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search.

Exit JFK.

National Archives and Records Administration

iebmaster@nara.gov

1/1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) •*

DATE: 11-14-2017

/ OrMONAL fORM NO. 10

3010.06

MAY 1008-DITION

vas CEN. uld. NO. ?!

UNITED SINTES GO

iNMENT

75-8905307055

MAR

Memoranural

CLASSIFIED BYG

W.

15-54)

DECLASSIEY ON. 25

16. 31

93

by

0D

1

Banigan

URE FVANOVICH NOSENKO:

51701

FK ESPIONAGE - RUSSIA

c1a 8-10-81

Classtit

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA IDFORMATION

# THIS DOCUMENT.

38.4

BIH 7/2193

DeLoach

9809 RANIEH

Sullivan*

D. E. Moore

- Papich

- Branigan

- Lee

Geclassy

Y OPSIS:

Reason-i

10320 PakrtB

7105,94

5,5167 i

Regita

3-4-87

2,3

This memorandum sunriarizes the results of

interviews of

Yuri Nosentio by Bureau Agents during the week of 2/24-28/64. *4

Vur: Nosenko is the Soviet intelligence agent who defected

so CIA in Geneva, Switzerland, 2/5/64. CIA furnished us with

information concerning its interviews of the subject.

On 2/24/64 our

Agents began interviewing Nosenko. Le furnished considerabled u

Information concerning recruitments and recruitment attempts made

against United States Citizens and United States Goverament employees

in the USSR.

He stated that the Soviet Intelligence service (KGP) has

not infiltratéd the FBi.

Most of the information which dosenko

not ished substantiated by facts already in our files e mentaing

Oswald, Nosenko said the KGB considered hin to

Hare Then told that he could not stay in the Soviet Union, Oswald Z

attempted suicide by cutting his wrists and was rushed to a hospital.

Through the jed Cross or Ministry of Foreign Affairs (WA), Oswald

was permitied to stay in Minsk, Russia.

Nos. diso next heard of him wuen

he visited ie Soviet Embassy, Mexico City,

and is made inquiry of

the KGB and was told that he was of no valüe.

Nosenko last heard of

Oswald in connection with the assassination of President Kennedy.

JAccording to Nosenko, Marina Oswald was not a KGB agent.

considered par-icularly intelligent and had reen dropped from the

Komsomol (young communist group) for nonpayment of dues.* Nosenio

turnishea into nation which indicates Anatole kotloby, subject of a

current investigation is identical with a KGB agent.

infornation that a former governess of the children of the United States

Ambassador in Moscow and now a teacher in the American School was

recruited by the KEB

students in Moscow

1106

82g*

NOT RECORDED

- 5 MAN: 25-1961

CIA has stated it believes 199 MAk27567 deception agent

and a plant to disrupt Americar intelli ence work.

We do not accept

lihis analysis as necessarily correct.

ve are interviewing Nosenko

with an open mind and are checking out the information which as jurnishes

After this has been done, it is believed an intelligent evalus ion can

be made of his worki.

Details of the highlights of the infortion

furnished by Nusco during the weeir of, 2/24-28/64 are attache... u

65-68530

id intormation -unnished

JPL: pa (8)

do Presidents Commission.

3/0/4L11 300-211

SECRET

Ist NR

DocId: 32129553 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memo W. A. Branigan to W. C. Sullivan

Re:

YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO

65-uS530

ACTION:

For information. Interviews with Nosenko are continuing

and all leads are being promptly set out and resolved. $ 4

DETAILS:

rurl 1. Nosenko, former KGb agent, defected to CIA in Geneva,

Switzerland, 2/5/64. CIA furnished the results of the preliminary

interviews of Nosenko along with its evaluation of him.

CIA is

convinced Nosenko is a plant sent by the KGB as a tactic to disrupt

American intelligence. & 4

nich ta maIntaIns In the area or washington,

highlights of some of the information furnished by losenko.#

1. Lee Harvey Oswald. Nosenko stated that he was familiar

with Oswald and recalled when Oswald arrived in the Soviet Union as a

tourist.

He said Oswald told Intourist he desired to remain in the

Soviet Union. However, Oswald was discourage against doing this and was

to eve intra states

told to return to the United States and apply for admission to Russia

as an immigrant.

Nosenko said Oswald was regarded by the KGB as

mentally unstable.

He said that at 10 o'clock in the morning on which

Oswald was advised that he could not remain in the Soviet Union, Oswald

to take part iu a tour of loscow, but he could not be found. Efforts

were made to finà him and after breaking into his room in the hotel, it

was discovered thai he had attempted suicide by cutting his wrists.

He

was taken to a hospital and upon release was told that he could not stay

in the Soviet Union.

He stated that he would again attempt suicide.

Through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Red Cross, Oswald was

allowed to remain in the Soviet Union and was sent to Minsk.

center in Moscow lost interest in him until he appeared at the Soviet

no eat to wins the"

Embassy, Mexico City, at which time that Embassy checked with the KGB

told that Oswald was of no use.

Concerning Marina Oswald, Nosenkr

stated that she was not a KGB agent, was not regarded to be particularly

intelligent and had been dropped from the Komsomol for nonpayment of

The last time Nosenko heard of Oswald was following the assassina

(tion 0f President Kennedy. * 4 gsone

2. Anatole Kotloby. Anatole Kotloby is the subject of an

intensive investigation resulting from iniormation which originated with

Fedora. Nosenko gave information about the arrest in Russia of an

American citizen named Bernard Koten. He said that Koten was atzempting

to visit in Russia the sister of an agent of the Scientific and ichnical

Directorate of the KGS in New York.

Nosenko did not know the name of

this agent in the United States; however,

from the description, it is

evident that he is referring to Kotloby.

furnished by Fedora.

DocId: 32129553 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 411 USC 2107

Hotel-

•DATE: 11-14-2017

Memo W. A. Branigan to W. C. Sullivn

Re:

YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO

65-68530

3.

Johanna Ross.

Johanna Ross is an American citizen

who went to Russia as a governess for the children of the American

Ambassador Nosenko stated that she is promiscuous and was seduced

by two African students and was then compromised by the KGB.

Our

files show that Ross is the holder of a current United States passport

and investigation of her background has been instituted.

4.

(4)

Information concerning various American citizens who

have been compromised in the USSR and recruitment attempts made against

them has been given by Nosenko. Re referred to the attempt to recruit

Robert James Barrett, American medical student. who was an interpreter

at the United States

Plastics Exhibition in Russia in 1959. No

I recruitment attempt was made in 1959; however, when he returned to

Russia in 1961, he was recruited

on the basis of the

compromise effected

during his 1959 trip.

Barrett is now an informant of the Bureau.

addition, Nosenko told of recruitment operations against employees of

the American Embassy, such as James E. Keyzers, Joseph Marone, Matthew

Zujus, Edwin smith, James

storsbers,

Peter Binder and Walter Mule, all

lof which we had previously known

(Ш

5. *Information about attempts to recruit newspapermen

stationed in Moscow has

ben given by Nosenko. He said an Associated Ly

Press representative in Moscow had been recruited. At this time there

are three representatives and we have opened cases to attempt to

identify the one who has been recruited. Nosenko told of the recruitment

of Sam Jaffe,

American Broadcasting Company correspondent in Moscow.

We have interviewed Jaffe and he gave us this information prior to his

recent return to Moscow. Nosenko also claims that Thomas Whitney had

furnished nonessential information to the KGB in Moscow but refused to

do so on his return

to the United States.. He also said that Eddy Gilmore

of

the Associated Press was a recruitment target and that Francis Stevens

of

United States News and World Report was compromised.

We knew of the

compromise action against Stevens since he had told us about it and we

also knew

that Whitney and Gilmore, both married to Soviet citizens, were

targets.

Nosenko also gave information concerning individual

travelers to Russia, who had been recruited and individual case files

have been opened on them.

WRET

Svene.

plea

DocId: 32129553

Page 4

---

