# docid-32310721

## Page 1

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10307-10025

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-628, 629

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

02/07/1962

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, RES, REL, TRA, MM, FL, MEETING, IDENT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC TTY

v9.1

DocId: 32310721

295

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992.

444 USC 2107

Hotel:

DATE: -11-14-2017

!..

SECTOR

FES

41302

TALEDRE

Mr. Talson

Mr.

Belmon't

Mchr

JIr.

Mr.

alamen

irirad

No Tired

31c.

Mr

Satirza

Lardl

Tratter

Tele. Reora

Ingram

Mias Gandy

ALL INFERMATION CONTAINED

McNa. 10

-ici

DATE4.-20-84

Brsesero/cs

URGENT 2-8-62 2-35 AM NMS

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 18/ AND SACS, MIAMI AND CHICAGO

4

FROM SAC, NEW YORK 92-793

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA AKA, ARO RE CHICAGO TEL TO BUREAU TWO,

SIX, LAST, AND BUTEL TWO, SEVEN, INSTANT. FOLLOWING NEW MESAX.

YORK

HOODLUMS REPORTEDLY PRESENTLY IN MIAMI AREA.. VINCENT

ALO, ONE TWO FOUR EIGHT MONROE STREET, HOLLYWOOD•, SALVATORE

(u)

GRANELLO, EIGHT SIX ONE ONE ATLANTIC WAY, MIAMI BEACH.,

JOHN BIELE, MANAGING PEPPERMINT LOUNGE, MIAMI BEACHO, ALEX

DE BRIZZI, LIDO HOTEL, MIAMI•, ANTHONY SALERNO, ONE TWO FOUR ONE

NORTH VENETIAN DRIVE, NORTH MIAMI BEACH., CARMINE LOMBARDOZZI,

TWO ZERO EIGHT FIVE ARCH CREEK DRIVE,, NORTH MIAMI, CARLO

GAMBINO, OCEAN MANOR, FOUR ZERO FOUR ONE GALT OCEAN DRIVE,

FT. LAUDERDALE., JOSEPH BIONDO, AND THOMAS GRECO, ONE NINE

THREE SIX SOUTH OCEAN DRIVE, HALLANDALE., BIONDO IN PAS92- 317/62

HAS STAYED AT MONIMARTE HOTEL AND BLUE SEA MOTEL, BOTH MIAMI

16 FEB I9 1962

BEACHO, JOSEPH AND SALVATORE PROFACI DROVE TO MIAMI.

SALVATORE JOE-S SON RENTED APARTMENT FOR THREE MONTHS AT

END PAGE ONE.

DocId: 32310721 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Réleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection At of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

50

PAGE THREE

JAMES PLUMERI, WIFE MARY PLUMERI, RESIDING NINE TWO TWO

FOUR DICKENS AVENUE, SURFSIDE. STROLLO AND PLUMERI

REPORTEDLY WILL JOIN THEIR WIVES AT ABOVE LOCATIONS.

INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM NEW YORK INFORMANT THAT VICENNT

CONTI AND SOME UNKNOWN INDIVIDUALS ARE LEAVING FROM CONTI

HOME IN BROOKLYN, NEW YORK, AT THREE A.Mo, TWO, EIGHT,

SIXTY TWO, IN TWO CADILLACS FOR MIAMI, FLORIDA. IT WOULD

APPEAR THAT CONTI, A CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF GRANELLO, MAY BE

IN CONTACT WITH GRANELLO IN FLORIDA. NYO WILL COVER

RESIDENCE OF CONTI IN EFFORT TO OBTAIN LICENSE

PLATES OF VEHICLES AND IDENTIFY OCCUPANTS INVOLVED IN THE

EVENT OF SUCH MOVEMENT, AND ADVISE MIAMI OF RESULTS.

FOLLOWING SAS RECOMMENDED AS BEST SUITED TO ASSIST IN

IDENTIFYING HOODLUMS FROM NEW YORK AREA. • WARREN

1.Jo

DONOVAN, PATRICK J. MOYNIHAN, PAUL GO DURKIN AND JAMES I.

MC SHANE. IT IS NOTED NEW YORK TWO SEVEN SEVEN TWO

DASH C HAS RETURNEDE TO NEW YORK BUT IS AVAILABLE

AND WOULD BE OF KEY VALUE. ALSO POTENTIALLY OF VALUE ARE NEW YORK /1

THREE THREE ONE SEVEN DASH PC AND NEW YORK ONE EIGHT NINE FOUR

DASH PC. NEW YORK ONE EIGHT NINE FOUR DASH PC NOW IN MIAMI AND IS

HANDLED BY SA DONOVAN•

END PLS ACK

NY R NR 08 EXX WA JHA

DocId: 32310721 Page 3

---

