# docid-32320707

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kernedy AssasSination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/31/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10375-10365

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-799

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: MARWELL, DAVID G.

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/09/1995

6

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

JFKARCA OF 1992

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

3

Redact

04/01/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DodId: 32320707

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992-(44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:

11-14-2017

326

March 9, 1995

Mr. David G. Marwell

Executive Director

Assassination Records Review Board

Second Floor

600 E Street,

N.W.

Washington,

D.C.

20530

Dear Mr. Marwell:

By letter dated March 3, 1995, I provided comments on

behalf of the FBI regarding the Assassination Records Review

Board's (the Board) proposed regulation containing guidance on

the interpretation of the term "assassination record" and

"additional information and records" included in the "President

John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992"

(the Act) .

comments

Inspector

Terry T. O'Connor discussed those FBI

at the Board's public meeting in Washington, D.C., on

Tuesday, March 7, 1995.

This letter sets forth additional

comment

suggested by Mr. O'Connor's dialogue with the Board and

other discussion at the meeting last Tuesday.

During the public meeting, the Board, through

Mr. O'Connor, invited the FBI's attention to language in

Subsection (a) of Section 1400.1 of the proposed regulation.

That Section provides assistance in the interpretation of the

term

"assassination record."

The specific language discussed was

that involving records relating to "activities and events that

may have led to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy."

As Mr. O'Connor told the Board, the FBI had no concern with this

language at the time of my March 3 letter and believes that the

Board would provide a reasonable basis for requesting records

covered by this terminology.

baC-40-1029905-799

Dep. Dir.

Based on all the discussion at the Board méetina 1r

Chief öf

Staff

regard to the language referred to above, the FBI wishes to

Off. of Gen.

supplement its earlier comments by suggesting that language be

Counsel

Asst. Dir :

Crim. Inv.

2 - Mr. Shapiro (1 - Mr. Blake)

1 - Mr. Collingwood

CJIS

Finance

2 - Mr. Bryant (1 - Mr. saville)

1

- Mr. Baugh

Info. Res.

Insp.

2 - Mr. Esposito (1 - Ms. Tucker) 1

- Mr. O'Connor

TTO: 1ag

(11)

(SEE NOTE - PAGE 3)

National Sec.

Personnel

Training

APPROVED:

Crim. In%

Laboratory-

ON Of FED

Off. of EEOA

Off. of Public

Hand delivered

Crim. dus. Info

Capel Connel Hon'

Adairs

& Cong. Affs.

to addressee

Sers.

Director's Office

Director

Of. of Public

MAIL ROOM D

Finance

DocId: 323207073 lage 5i

Tr. Deputy Director

Insmartinn

Diaraliin..

& Cong. Afe.

FBI/DOJ

---

