# docid-32346851

## Page 1

Date:

08/26/99

Page:

1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10063-10299

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

FBI

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

TO :

TITLE

: INNER CITY VOICE

DATE

03/26/68

PAGES

3

SUBJECTS

DETROIT RIOTS

BLACK STUDENTS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

:

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

POSTPONED IN FULL

07/14/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK10:F6 1993.07.14.09:53:45:120530: PER ARRB 10/97,

NOT ASSASSINATION RELATED

- DIF

[R]

-

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 50529

DooId: 32346851

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Пі Л..

•D 8.

UNITED STATIS

DETAATMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDLAAL GALAL ON INTISTICATION

Datioit,

Machá ren

• March

25, 1963

Re: °

"Inner City Voice"

11657

DBC

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

All sources referred to in this letterhead memorandum

and in the attached appendix have furnished reliable information

in the past.

Source one on February 20, 1968,

advised the "Inner City Voice" is

a black revolutionary newspaper

started in Detroit, Michigan,

shortly after the Deroit riot of

July, 196%.

Source one further

advised that past

editions of the

"Inner City Voice" have contained

greatly slanted, highly inflammatory

articles designed to build racial

hatred and articles containing

instructions and procedures of

guerrilla varfare to be used in

the city.

On March 21, 1968, Phil Aaron, Capco. Press,

Incorporated, 1325 Vermont, Detroit, Michigan, telephmically

contacted the Detroit Office of the

Federal Bureau of Investi-

gation and advised that an individual named Michael Hamlin

had cropped off the stencil of the new edition of the "Inner

City Voice" and that he had been told to pick up the papers

at 2:30 PM. the

same date.

At 2:30 PAl on March 21;

1968, Special Agents of

the Federal Bureau of Investigation observed four individuais,

two of whom were recognized by Agents as General Gordon mker, JI.

and Michacl Hamlin, enter the office of the Capco Press,

Incorporated, tues Vermont, Detroit, Michigan, and returned

with 30 bundles of newspapers which were loaded into a ford

van truck.

The truck departed Capco Press, Incorporated and

stopped at. 866) Grand River, Datroit, Michigan, where the

10352

CSICOPY.

100-300-4

HH 50529

DocId:32346851 Page 2

---

## Page 3

(lount Clipring in Space Below)

THAETABLE

SUABLE OF MASSACRE

Monday, February 5.

student readers trob Seath Caro-

lina State Colege sempiel: ip

desegregate the all-spite bowlin

alley rowned by Harry'T.. Ford.

The operator of the howting es-

tablishinent, the All-Star Bowling,

Alley, refused to admit the black

students.

7.472

Thesday February 6

Students again attempted todeseg

regate the bowling alley and were

-again turned away. Twenty, stu:

dents were arrested. " Later,

after word had been circulated on

campus, 600 studoins from the

college: went down to the shopping

center: where the bowing alley is

pilocated,demanding that: thosen

arrested be released. Appros

amately, 150 law enforcements

officials erc on, the scene

and

some of them rattenpting to dis

sperse: the: crowd, bogan to be

the surents. Several girlS yer

Schibbed to the ground, TI

persois. were untured and were

petreated cat the collegetinfirmary.

One mit of the National Guard was

calied in and additional units were

placed on stand-by. alert,

Wednesday. February,

Students met all day. and all nights

discussing the violence and D.

police brutality dirested toward

"them the previous night, and also

protesting the failurt of the good

South Carolina" State Legislature

to approve the budgei or to allo-!

calcfunds for the college, although

funds had been appropriaied for.

*%.

the all-whits University of South

Sie Carolina,

Thursday, February 5

buudings while the harmed, police

stood on compus silent and nat:

watched the-shöoting ma-campas

guard was shot and wounded. STu.

dent leaders, who had submitted

a. list. as seven grievances to the

Orangebury. City Council, staged

La: prayer sin' düring the carigh

evening and later held a mecting

in a-ball park/near the campus:

Students,

in zan cfor tato stop

the movement of shooting whites

from driving. through the campus;

lit a bonfireat, the campus gale

It has basn reported by Dr: Chase

Thomas, President of the Orange

burg NAACP and/by.members.o

the faculty fo South Carama

-State that thay heard the National

Guard ordered to hide on South

Carolina's canpus until SNCGe

They o he sittere

on the students in an attempt to

kill Clevery hep Cleve Sallers.

appeared the National. Guard

HH 50529

DocId: 32346851

crashes

Page 3

2.1

588535300-4

---

## Page 4

clarged into the crowd of students

firing fat randon. "The students

seeking cover fell to the ground.

The Guard continuail firing at stu-

ground face dom. All those hit

were shot in the back out leer,

L538

THE

10 students (at, least) adm

hospitals with gunsho. rowds

4 studenis murdared.

They are;

Sam Harmon (18 hilled our

right in a blast a gunire) reg

Daláno Middleron (17, an CRANge

burg High Scioal studens who died

an hour after teing wounded) Me

Henry-Smith! (28,/@Jassmate.ofbast

Harmon, who died early Saturday

after having been Shot, then beaten

severly) We have fust learne

what another student has died as

ai resultic gussig

wounds. we

do nothave hist

name.

Fmerals

vices for the four slain

brothers

¡elision Thursday,

February 15

*sCle

salersy

•South 1La

just atthea

tand was ar

nathan Orangeburg

shospita

a black!

his wands,

him rand

caled for

He was

taken'to theicity

he was held two. hours

police, efter having" conferred with

Governor Mc Nari, decided upon fu

the charges the now, hast a: tota

-of* five charges ragainst him. tid

Those chargestare: poinciting to dg

riot. "arses, damagine: property,

breaking and: cniering..A fifth

charge,- - assauli with intent: 10

kill has bsenibrought against hi

A state tropper was hit in the head;

by one of his.oirimen as.he

along with. oher trooperscherged

at this fleeina studenis wilthy"

swinging their: clubs. "This injury

has been blamed on CLEVE. Ail

students arrested during the mass

acic have besh: released- except

Clere Sellers. Studenis shot:

¡ duing liz massacre had to travel

¡to nearby towns for modich aron-

HH. 50529

DocId: 32346851

Page

4

Friday February 97

Governor Mc Nair declarcda state

a emergency i andicalled forma

5:00 p.m.f cerfew. Both"South.

Carolina State en Clalin Colleges,

which adjoin; have been closed

Dindafinitely l Srudents dred to pay

their own way home. They eithers

or stay pa campus. meanor lets

HISTORICAL NOTE: ST

In 1980, SNCC'S second chairman,

Chuch Mic, Day, led najor student

"demonstrations in Orangegurg 3Y

dealing with public acco nodations.

5 That winter all student demonstra-

nions were herded into a coinpound

outside tis city sail and hosed.

This winter, they wercmassacred

---

