# docid-32330389

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90090-10052

HQ

105-84265-1

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

HQ

AG

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/28/1960

2

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH

54460

DocId: 32330389

Page 1

---

## Page 2

mế Abborhey Gendral

9173

125,090 8v, arrangements could be made to deliver rosferrer

to Choan

agento tho would transpord him to sube by book.

Voldes inascated thas the Cubon Coverment would aubsequently

arnousce maoferrer te capture while engaged in on intenton

of Croos

1" the concluston of this meating, Voldes and

Femandoa were placed under orress by eur miami Offtea

on authorised complaint was filed chorging them uten

conaptracy to violate 216le 10, Section 1201g

United Stadea

Codes

Warrante wore.

Iscuod by United States Contestoner

Roger to Douts of Miant and a hoaring to scheduled for the

ortemoon. of Jonuary 28, 2960. Doute has indicated he will

set bond for 1100,000 for such subject.

We on furnishing & bunory of

this date

Vice Prosident und detatied facts are

boơng made available

to the Criminal and Internal seeurity Divaione of the

Heparinent, the Deparinant of State,

the Central Insolligene

Ageneye

-. the intelitoence

Ingrotion and Naturalisation sarutce, ap

aranohos of the armed

forges.

For your confidential inforusion; Fernandes

hae- beera

masaraed by our Mant Ofysco cince 1955 as o

source conceming: Cubon masters Since September, 19591

ho has icen in Cube and contact utta him hos been extremady

Limited..

While 10 to not. knoin at this tine whether

Hernandes intended to advise un lotar of thror2lo4

going

through with it withous telling ue,hs arrest pe"

o portiolous nos necersary

vou of the morner in which

the situation developed.

3: Wro Lawrence E. Welsh

Deputy Attoray Géneral

NOREE

classified "Confidential" sinpe, we are nel

the

identity of a source wnose full role in this matt

not been establishad.

*(U)

CONFIDNIAI

ND0S0-I00

74 54460

DocId: 32330389

Page 2

---

