# docid-32327913

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/26/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90066-10154

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 92-6903-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/08/1964

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

19.1

DocId: 32327913

Page 1

---

## Page 2

[Released under the John'T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-2899

all information developed on subject in the interim,

will be reported.

on 11/12/63, NY 3936-C advised that EDDIE

LANZIERI, JOEXRIZUTO, and SALLY CELEMBRINO, were anxious

to open a

bingo game in Brentwood, Long Island. Informant

stated that these individuals had met with a MRS. LEONI (PH)

whose husband is a member of the Brentwood Town Council.

Informant was

told that MRS. LEONI is connected with the

CARLO GAMBINO "family".

Informant further advised that an individual,

named JOE BIONDI, advised him to stay away from GEORGE

LEVINE and SALDE/BURNS, because LEVINE 1s a "creep" and

SALLY BURNS is nothing anymore. BIONDI also told informant

ifshetisdin trouble with either LEVINE Or BURNS, to call

EDDIE LANZIERI or himself and they will straighten it out.

The above information is not being set out in

the details of the report, inasmuch as this informant is

an extremely sensitive source and routine reporting or

investigation concerning any of this information would

undoubtedly endanger this informant since he was in attendance

at the above meeting.

On March 13, 1964, HARRY H. ERDMAN, Chief special

Investigations, INS, advised that subject, LANZIERI is the

subject of a contemplated investigation by their office.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

Contacting agent

NY T-1

NY 3936-C

SA WILLIAM A. VERICKER

NY I-2

NY 2151-C

SA WARREN J. DONOVAN

COVER PAGE

B*

d0086-108206

DocId: 32327913

Page 2

---

