# docid-32300743

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10277-10078

HQ

92-3267-413

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 45945 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/11/1963

2

JRO, ASSOC, TRA, CAR, PURCHASE, FISUR, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 15945

15

DocId: 32300743

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36. (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Transmit the following in

Via -

AIRTEL

Date:

Register l

1-11-63

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

0

eat)

Dotton:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-113C)

JOHN ROSELII, aka

AR

REVIEWED BY FEVJFK TASK FORCE

ON

7/29/98

RELEASE IN FULL

D RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

LA 4396-C* advised on 1-8-63 that ROSSELLI, during

a conversation with an unknown person, stated that he should

take the LEDERERs to dinner some time. ROSSELLI probably

refers to LOUIS J. LEDERER of Chicago, a close friend and

former business associate.

The LEDERERs have a daughter and

son-in-law living in Los Angeles.

IRS Special Agents

working on the ROSSELLI investigation have unsuccessfully tried

to locate LEDERER for interview in Chicago and Los Angeles.

The information that LEDERER is in Los Angeles will be

disseminated to IRS at Los Angeles.

At 12:30 AM on 1-9-63 SA WILLIAM R. CARTER observed

ROSSELLI leave his apartment and enter the apartment garage

where his car was parked. Fisur on the morning of 1-10-63

revealed that his car was not in the garage and was not in

the garage or in the vicinity of his girlfriend, SHARON ANN

JOHNSON, 7235 Hollywood Boulevard, Los Angeles.

LA 4396-C*

advised that ROSSELLI returned to his apartment shortly

after noon on 1-10-63.

LA 4268-C advised that ROSSELLI went to the Friar's

Club in Beverly Hills, California, about 3:15 PM on 1-8-63

where he immediately ordered breakfast.

He said that

REE 54,

Bureau

Ios Angeles

HES: deb

(4)

92-3367-413

12 JAN 1 4 1963

Approved:

Sent

_M

Per

10

¿Special Agent in Charge

NW 45945 DooId: 32300743 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA

92-113C

MORRIE FRIEDMAN (MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN, part owner, New Frontier

Hotel, Las vegas,

Nevada) kept him out until 7:00 AM that

morning and he then went to bed and slept until 2:00 PM.

LA 4268-C advised that ROSSELLI was also at the

Friar's Club on the afternoon of 1-10-63 at which time he

was playing cards with HARRY KARL, BEN TEITELBAUM and

MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN.

On 1-10 and 11-63 VERN LYNCH, Special Agent,

IRS, Los Angeles, advised that on 1-9, 10, and 11-03 he and

another IRS Agent were

JFK Law 11(a)

Prior to this the nature of

B&R Enterprises, Inc., was not known. . However, it would

appear that B & R Enterprises, InC.,

was being used also

for ôthercinvestments because

the Lake Mead Marina was

reportedly sold about a year ago to Mc Cullough Motors yet

during the summer of 1962 money received from AL MATHIS,

part owner of the luau Restaurant in B.H. was deposited

one of ROTHMAN's accounts and thereafter

money was paid

of this account to ROSSELLI in connection with some B & R'

Enterprises, Inc.,

transaction.

on 1-9-63 HARRY MC INTYRE, Sales Manager, Brand

Motors, 2691 Crenshaw Boulevard,

Los Angeles,

advised that

ROSSELLI purchased a 1963 Ford T-Bird from this firm on

12-6-62 for $4350 which represents a discount of about $1000

from the regular retail price.

MC INTYRE said he did not

know

ROSSELLI before he wrote

this

sale and does not recall

who told him to give ROSSELLI the discount but said it would

have to be either JOHN BEBER or MITCHELL COOPER who are both

owners of the firm,

- 2 -

NW 45945 DooId: 32300743 Page 3

---

