# docid-32305333

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10287-10463

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-2ND NR 342

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/05/1967

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, MEETING, ANTI-CASTRO ORGANIZATIONS, PLANS,

CUBAN GOVERNMENT, CANADA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

DOCId: 32305333

Page 1

35

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Aot of

1992. (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

'SERRET

Mr. Tolson,

Mr. DeLoach-

TELETYPE UNIT

Mr. Mohr--

Mr. Wick

-- -21--

JUN 5 1967

Mr. Casper_

Mr. Callahan_

Mr. Conrad

- FBI NEW

YORK

ENCODED MESSAGE

Mr. Felt.

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rosen

712

URGENT 6-5-67 AWS

Mr.

Mr.

Sullivan

Tavel

TO DIRECIOR 97-4194

Mr. Trotter....

• Tele. Room …

Miss Holmes.

FROM NEW YORK 105-39412

Miss Gandy -_

EXC

INTORUATION

CONTAINED

IN ISUAGIASSIFIED

HERE SHOWN

ERWI

CUBNAT; INTERNAL SECURITY DASH CUBA; REGISIRATION

ACT DASH CUBA, NEUTRALITY MATTERS DASH CUBA.

A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE, WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE

INFORMATION IN THE PASI, ADVISED ON JUNE FIVE, NINETEEN

SIXTYSEVEN THAI A MEETING TOOK PLACE ON THE NIGHT OF JUNE THREE,

NINETEEN SIXTYSEVEN AND THE EARLY MORNING OF JUNE FOUR, NINETEEN

SCLC

OADR 622/33

SIXTYSEVEN AT THE SHOE STORE OWNED AND OPERATED BY IGNACIO NOVO,

SECRETARY GENERAL OF MOVIMIENTO NACIONALISTA CUBANA (CUBAN

NATIONALISI MOVEMENT) (CNM), AND HIS BROTHER, GUILLERTO NOVO,

SEVEN SEVEN THREE BERGEN AVENUE, JERSEY CITY, NEW JERSEY. PRESENT.

Classifiet

lassify

AT THIS MEETING IN ADDITION TO IGNACIO AND GUILLERMO NOVO, WERE

DR. ORLANDO BOSCH, HEAD OF

ZOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARII

'(MIRR) AND DR. MANUEL A. DE VARONA,

HEAD OF RESCATE REVOLUCIONARIA DEMOCRATICA (RRD) ANTI-CASTRO

ORGANIZATIONS. THE CONFIDENTIAL

SOURCE ADVISED THAT DISCUSSED EPIR

END PAGE ONE

97-4414

NOT RECORDED

MARCHA

+: 4110196 901 0l

881 JUN 18 7967

79 JUN 16 1967

-

Relayed to FIB-w.

ORIGINAL FILED EN

SECRED

DocId: 32305333

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SEX

PAGE TWO

AT THE MEETING HERE FUTURE PLANS OF ANTI DASH CASTRO CUBANS

AGAINST THE PRESENT CUBAN GOVERNMENT AND THESE PLANS CENTERED IN

CANADA. A KU)

THE CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ADVISED THAI DR. BOSCH WANTED TO

CARRY OUT A TWO PRONGED ATTACK AGAINST THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN

CANADA AND SPECIFICALLY SPOKE ABOUT THE ASSASSINATION OF THE CUBAN

AMBASSADOR TO CANADA AND THE ATTACK ON A CUBAN SHIP IN THE PORT OF

MONTREAL, BOSCH STATED THAT THEY WOULD NOT USE ANY MEMBER OF THE

CNM BECAUSE THEY WERE QUOTE TOO HOT UNQUOTE. BOSCH STATED THAT HIS

MAN PAREN FIRST NAME UNKNOWN PAREN GUTIERREZ IN MIAMI HAD NINE

ROCKETS, TIMING DEVICES, C DASH THREE AND C DASH FOUR WHICH

COULD BE USED IN THEIR FUTURE PLANS. BOSCH STATED THAT THE CUBAN

EXILES WANTED TO SHOW THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, THE FEDERAL

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION AND THE IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION

SERVICE THAT WHAT ACTION HAD BEEN TAKEN AGAINST FELIPE RIVERO,

NATIONAL DIRECTOR OF THE CNM, COULD NOT STOP THE CUBAN EXILES IN

THEIR FIGHT AGAINST PRIME MINISTER FIDEL CASTRO OF CUBA. KU)

THE CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ADVISED THAT BOSCH TOLD THE NOVO

BROTHERS AND DR. VARONA THAT UPON HIS RETURN TO MIAMI HE WOULD HAVE

GUTIERREZ, MENTIONED ABOVE, SEND THE NECESSARY EQUIPMENT TO ONE OF

(и)

HIS, BOSCH'S, MEN IN THE NEW YORKARA AREA AND COORDINATE FUTURE PLANS

END PAGE TWO

GORR LAST LINE OT, YOR" AREA AURaNe

BEGRET

DocId: 32305333

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released inter the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: PAGE THREE

'SEGRET

WITH THE CHE THRON AN THE NOVQ BROTHERS. (O (4)

THE CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ADVISED THAT' DURING THE ENTIRE

DISCUSSION, DRO MANUEL VARQIA, DID NOT

"AKE ANY COMMENT CONGERNING

THESE PLANS OF ORLANDO BOSCH. OXT(4)

ADMINISTRATIVE

RE NEW YORK TELETYPE JUNE TWO, NINETEEN SIXTYSEVEN.

THE CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE IS WILLIAM SAMPOL, WHO REQUESTED

THAT HIS IDENTITY BE PROTECTED. ABOVE INFORMATION SHOULD BE

CLASSIPIED CONFIDENTIAL. (HU)

REVIEW OF NEW YORK FILES REFLECIS THAT REFERENCE TO

QUOTE GUTIERREZ UNQUOTE COULD REFER TO GERVELIO GUTIERREZ

CONCEPION, AKA QUOTE MIMO UNQUOTE GUTIERREZ, THREE ZERO NINE ZERO

NORTHWEST NINETEENTH AVENUE, MIAMI, WHO WAS IDENTIFIED AS MILITARY

COORDINATIOR OF MIRR IN MIAMI REPORT OF SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR. DATED

NOVEMBER TWELVE, SIXTYSEVEN CAPTIONED MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA, IS DASH CUBA, RA DASH CUBAN, NM.

SAMPOL HAS BEEN

ISTRUCTED TO MAINTAIN CLOSE CONTACI WITH

THE NOVO BROTHERS TO

ASCERTAIN FURTHER DETAILS AND ANY ADDITIONAL

INFORMATION CONCERNING PLANS OF ORLANDE BOSCH IN THIS MATTER DAY

BUREAU AND INTERESTED OFFICES WILL BE KEPT ADVISED ON

EXPEDITIOUS BASIS.

MAIL COPIES TO ALBANY, MIAMI AND NEWARK.

NO LHM BEING SUBMITTED.

LOCAL DISSEMINATION IO INS, US CUSTOMS.

SUCOP

END

ACK FOR NUMBERS 18-21

WA. • OMSE

FBI WSH DC

"STRET

OBIG: MR DELOACH FOR DIRECTON

DocId: 32305333 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

5+1 139119-25-0059

SERIED

HERE CLASSIER EA

SXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

Domestic Intelligence Division

6/5/67

4: 10/95

The Cuban

Nationalist Movement is

militant anti-Castro Cuban organiza~

tion which has endeavored to blow up the

According to

place an explosive at the Cuban pavilion

and a recent harmless explosion in the

yater near the pavilion is now being

claimed as the handiwork of the group.

The attached

I indicates that the

group is now joining forces with another

militant group headed by Orlando Bosch

and which has also attempted to set off

explosive devices in or near Cuban estab-

Lishments.

In view of the threats to assassinate

the Cuban ambassador, the attached was

disseminated by teletype to the White House,

State, Central

Intelligence Agency, the

military agencies

and Secret Service.

It

was alse given by

110

Classified

Declassif

U.S. Information Agency.

Miami has been instructed to make

every effort to fully identity the persor

in the Miami area who

explosive devices for use fy this group in

TJS:ts

SECRET 4474-

DocId: 32305333

Page 5

---

