# docid-32290845

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10206-10121

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-12-304

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/29/1962

2

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

CIP, WILSON, WILL, CONTRIBUTIONS, LAS VEGAS

GAMBLERS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32290845

10

Page 1

---

## Page 2

F80-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Date: 3/29/62

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

FROM

: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

SAC, DALLAS (94-55A) (P)

Q

SUBJECT:

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

DALLAS DIVISION

ReBuairtel 3/22/62.

DL-149-C was recontacted by SA JOSEPH M. MYERS on

3/25/62 and he advised that shortly after WILL WILSON was

elected Attorney General for the State of Texas, informant

"heard" from several sources, two of whom he named as being

w. M. "BOSTON" SMITH and WILBUR FRANCIS HICKS, aka. Bud Hicks,

Worth, Texas gamblers and from other sources around

Fort Worth

that WILSON had received money from Las Vegas

gamblers, the names of which were not mentioned prior to

WILSON's allegation.

Informant stated that there was no way

for him to prove this but that the information that he

received was the common talk among the gambling circle in

Fort Worth.

There is no indication in the files of the Dallas

Division that the above information has been received from

other sources and there is no data available which will

confirm or disprove this allegation. For the information of

the Las Vegas Office, information was developed at Fort Worth

from DL-149-C who stated that he had heard that WILSON, Attorney

General, State of Texas, had taken money from Las Vegas,

Nev. gamblers at the time of his election to keep Texas

closed up as far as gambling was concerned, thus forcing the

Texas people to travel by air and other means to Las Vegas

to do their gambling.

With reference to the hoodlum element in Denver,

Colo. purchasing milk companies all over the United States,

DL-149-C stated that he had received this information from

who resides in the Arlington Heights Section

REG

6201-141-3044

3 - Bureau

2 - Denver

2 - Las Vegas

pall as

196%

Approged:

Special Agent in Charge

25 MAR

311962

Sent

NW 45760 DocId: 32290845 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

DL 94-55A

of

Fort Worth, Texas, and who was formerly from Kansas City,

Mo .

Informant stated that L

married a distant relative

of EUGENE SMALDONE of Denver,

Colo. and

wife's

relatives are still in Denver.

Informant stated that he

understood from

that his L

I were "big"

in the Italian circle in Denver, Colo. and that she has an

uncle in Danver, Colo. Informant stated that the reason he

believes that_

knows people in Denver was because at

one time informant was

having trouble in operation of his

gambling establishment at Ft. Worth, because a Ft. Worth

hoodlum, MARTIN BUSTER LOICANO,

trying to force informant

into paying 25% of the take of his gambling establishmenti

Informant stated that he knew that

_knew some Italian

people in Denver and asked [

Ito find out if LOICANO

was connected with the mafia

from these people in Denver.

Informant stated that_

]who is not Italian, after

having a few drinks, make a telephone call to someone in

Denver and asked them if LOICANO was a member of the mafia,

whoever was at the cher end of

the line "atel

I then told informant

that he could not ever go back up to Denver. Informant

stated that he would attempt to develop further information

concerning this, however, if anyone questioned

at

this time, it would "heat up" informant.

LEAD

OTHER 4

LAS VEGAS OFFICE

Will review files for any information contained

therein regarding WILL WILSON, Attorney General for the State

of Texas, receiving any contributions from las Vegas gamblers.

DENVER OFFICE

Will review files to determine if there has been

any attempt to gain control of any milk companies by the

noting that SMALDONE family migh

LYNUM

2

NW 45760 DocId: 32290845 Page 3

---

