# docid-32576627

## Page 1

FD-263

(Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INV..STIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

LAS VEGAS

OFFICE OF. ORIGIN

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

LA COSA NOSTRA

LAS VEGAS DIVISION

DATE

5/12/65

REPORT MADE BY

SA JOHN R. KINS INGER

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7/21/64 - 5/12/65

TYPED BY

nwh

AR - CONSPIRACY

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

REFERENCES:

Re lat de SA JO R. KINSINGER, dated 7/20/64

Bureau airtel to New York dated 4/16/65.

- RUC -

ENCLOSURES: TO BUREAU (2)

Enclosed to the Bureau are the original and one copy

of LHM characterizing informant used herein.

TO NEW YORK (1)

Enclosed for New York is one copy of LIM characterizing

informant used herein.

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-6054-11069

- Bureau (92-6054) (BAG 2) (R. M.)

2 - New York (92-2324) (Enc. 1) (R.M.)

12 MAY 14 1965

1 - Las Vegas (92-625)

REG- 31

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd. &

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

C. AAG/Criminal Divistou,

Organized Crime &

Kadreteering

Section, Room

ell

Notations

E

STAT (SBCT.,

HH

45839 DooId: 32576627

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LV 92-625

INFORMANTS:

LV T-1 is LA 4335-C-TE.

Information furnished to

Los Angeles agents 1/25/65 and 4/28/65.

LV T-2 is CV 421-C-TE to Cleveland

agents.

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA:

By separate communication the Los Angeles Office

has been requested to furnish the New York Office with proper

characterization of LA 4335-C-TE to be used in compilation of

summary report.

It is noted that a separate file has been opened in

Las Vegas to attempt to identify ARMIN (LNU) described as

possible La Cost Nostra member.

AKa Buster

Hotel

was a suspected member.

Investigation has failed to

support this allegation and in interviews denies association

with La Cosa Nostra.

CUTINELLE is "semi-cooperative" and has

furnished some information of value regarding other persons.

COVER B*

-

PAGE

HH 45839

DocId: 32576627

Page 2

---

