# docid-32286294

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10070

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1416

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/16/1964

2

SGI, ASSOC, INSTR, GAMBLING, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32286294 Page 1

80

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-j litev. 4-17-631

NA4/1W64

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callaha

Conrad

DeLoad

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

• AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

• CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

&x TELETYPE

12:46 AM DST DEFERRED 6-16-64 AAA

TO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO 152326

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA, AR.

CG 6486-C* ADVISED THAT HY GODFREY, CHAUFFEUR AND

RUNNER FOR MURRAY HUMPHREYS AND FRANK FERRARO APPEARED AT

ARMORY LOUNGE AND REQUESTED URGENT MEETING WITH SAM GIANCANA

OR BUTCH BLASI, GIANCANA RIGHT HAND MAN. WAS INSTRUCTED GIANCANA

AT GOLF COURSE. BLASI, WHEN LATER ADVISED OF GODFREY VISIT,

HIGHLY AGITATED AND INDICATED HE DID NOT WANT TO BE BOTHERED

WITH GODFREY. SOURCE INDICATED THAT BLASI LATER ADVISED GIANCANA

OF GODFREY MATTER AND STATED GODFREY LEFT $3,000 FOR GIANCANA:

OF PARTICULAR NOTE WAS INFORMATION GIVEN TO GODFREY THAT

GIANCANAMIGHT BE LOCATED AT PUCCI'S RESTAURANT LOCATED ABOUT

TWO BLOCKS WEST OF ARMORY LOUNGE WHERE GIANCANA AND BLASI HAVE

BEEN OBSERVED PREVIOUSLY. BLASI FURTHER ADVISED GIANCANA

THAT "LITTLE LARRY WANTS TO GET IN TOUCH WITH YOU URGENTLY."

THIS IS PROBABLY REFERENCE TO LARRY RUSSANO, CICERO ILLINOIS

HOODLUM AND FORMER MANAGER OF JOEY ALUPPA'S TURF LOUNGE,

NOTORIOUS CICERO STRIP AND GAMBLING CENTER. IT IS POINTED

OUT THAT ABOVE SOURCE INDICATED A IUPPA ATTEMPTED TO CONTACT

GIANCANA DURING PREVIOUS WEEK CONCERNING ANOTHER OF HIS

CICERO CLUBS WHICH HAS BEEN CLOSED FOR PURPOSE OF HAVENG GIANCANA

MAKE SOME CONTACTS TO HELP ALUPPA RE-OPEN CLUB. U

SOURCE ALSO ADVISED THAT UNKNOWN MALE KNOWN ONLY AS STEVE

MET WITH

BLASI AND GIANCANA AND ADVISED THEM OF POSSIBLE.FIX

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNULASSIFED

DATEY-23.94 BY SPSROSS

REC- 127.

92-3122 1416

66 JUN 211054

2X-103

& JUN 16 1964

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl:

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems..

DocId: 32286294 Page 2

---

## Page 3

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2817

4-311.Jev. 4-17-63)

• AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

0 CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

TELETYPE

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy :

PAGE TWO FROM CHICAGO 152326

WITH UNIDENTIFIED POLICEMAN. GIANCANA ISSUED INSTRUCTIONS

TO STEVE TO CONTINUE DICKERING WITH POLICEMAN. ACCORDING TO

STEVE, POLICEMAN AFRAID "OF THE G." GIANCANA IN TURN INSTRUCTED

STEVE TO TELL POLICEMAN NOT TO WORRY ABOUT G. AND THAT THEY

WOULD MAKE IT WORTH HIS WHILE. U

IT IS NOTED THAT CG 6632-C* ADVISED THAT HY GODFREY

ADVISED MURRAY HUMPHREYS THAT GIANCANA COULD NOT MAKE MEETING

REQUESTED BY HUMPHREYS FOR JUNE 15 INSTANT AS HE WOULD BE

LEAVING TOWN ON EVENING OF JUNE 13 LAST. CG 6486-C* ADVISED

GIANCANA STILL IN CHICAGO AS LATE AS 11 PM. JUNE 14. THIS

WOULD INDICATE GIANCANA MERELY PUTTING OFF HUMPHREYS WITH

EXCUSE WHEN NOT INTERESTED IN NAMINA MEET. U

MAKING

RECEIVED: 2:14 AM EFH

DEVIATE BE MENCE

i . ! it.

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32286294 Page 3

---

