# docid-32296133

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10216-10409

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2918-91

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Aet of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) •

Case#:NW 45854 Date:

41-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/15/1960

PAGES:

61

SUBJECTS :

SMO, ASSOC, ARREST, PERSONAL HISTORY, BKG,

CRIMINAL ACT, B/F INT, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/29/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE i, INC 2 ADMIN PAGES

v9.1

HH 45854

DocId: 32296133

Page 1

---

## Page 2

§JFK Act 6 (4)

PG

92-407

• 92-228

INFORMANTS

PG T-1 is

records of Selective Service Local Board No. 5,

New Kensington, Pa.,

reviewed by an unidentified Special

Agent in 1944.

PG T-2 1s ROBERT J. WILSON, Vice President, Mellon National

Bank and Trust Company, New Kensington, Pa., contacted by

SA ALBERT E. KLEBE, JR.

PG T-3 1s PCI

Springdale, Pa., who

furnished information to SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III.

PG I-4 is PCI CAMILLE NAFFAH, Monroeville, Pa., who furnished

information to SA FORSYTH.

PG T-5 is Lleutenant JACK STACK, NA, Pittsburgh Police

Department, who furnished information to SA JOHN D. ANTHONY.

PG T-6 1S JACK SCHWARTZ, SA, Intelligence Division, IRS,

Pittsburgh, who furnished information to SA RICHARD GORDON

DOUCE.

PG T-7 1s PG 545-C.

PG T-8 1s former PCI

who furnished information

to SA DOUCE.

PG T-Y IS POI

New Kensington, Pa., who

furnished information to SA DOUCE.

PG T-10 is former PG 509-C.

PG T-I] 1s Havana 4.

PG T-12 is Inspector WILLIAM WALSH,

# Precinct, Pittsburgh

Police Department, who requested SA

NORMAN T. THOMPSON

to keep his identity confidential.

PG T-13 1s PCI GEOFFREDD CELLINI, Hotel Nacional Gambling

Casino Manager, Havana, Cuba, contacted by Legat.

TOMED BY PREEN TASK FORDE

7-20-98 cir

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

COVER PAGE

TOTAL DENIAL

HH

45854 DooId: 32296133 Page 2

---

## Page 3

JUEK Act 6 (4)

PG 92-407

: 92-228

PG T-14 is former PCI WALTER SHARKEY, New Kensington, Pa.,

who furnished information to SA DOUCE.

PG. T-15 is PCI

New Kensington, Pa., who furnished

information to SA FORSYTH.

PG I-16. 1s PCI CHARLES LA CAMERA, who furnished information

to SA JOHN S. PORTELLA.

PG I-IT IS PCI GEORGE MESSER, Pittsburgh, who furnishec

Information to SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

PG T-18 Is PG 511-C.

PG T-19 1S WILLIAM ADAMS, owner, Adams Music Company, New

Kensington, Pa., who requested SA NORMAN T. THOMPSON to

protect his identity.

PG T-20 IS JAMES MC DOWELL, ATTD, Pittsburgh, who furnished

information to SA J.. EDWARD MADAY.

PG T-21 is former PCI

A New Kensington, Pa.,

who furnished information to SA FORSYTH.

MM T-1 1s JOSEPH MEROLA, FBI #4989299, who is now a symbol

informant

of the Miami Office.

MM T-2 is Mrs. D. J. BROWN, Day Manager, Garden of Allah

Motel, Miami Beach, Florida, who requested SA ELMER F. EMRICH

to protect her identity.

CG T-1 is Dun and Bradstreet, Chicago, Illinois, contacted

by IC JOHN E. WHALEN.

CG. T-2 is PCI

Chicago, Illinois, who

furnished information to SA RALPH R. HILL, JR.

C*

COVER PAGE

NH 45854 DooId: 32296133 Page 3

---

