# docid-32326884

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 74T USC 2107 HoteT:

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90058-10146

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

91-18345-175

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/03/1969

3

JOSEPH D'ARGENTO

RICHARD CAIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32326884

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination ReCords Collection Act df 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 91-3396

FORAN stated that MORRISSEY told him that one of

the attorneys in the Task Force at Chicago took the tape to

the Attorney General,

"a week ago last Friday." MORRISSEY

told FORAN that there are only the original and two copies

of this tape.

HANRAHAN has the original tape; MORRISSEY has

one copy, and the second copy was delivered to the Attorney

General.

According to FORAN, CAIN discussed payoffs he had

received during the time he was on the Chicago Police Department

and during the time he was the Chief Investigator for former

Sheriff OGILVIE. He reportedly admitted that he received a

payoff of $1,000 a month while Chief Investigator from organized

crime

to permit organized crime to operate.

FORAN stated that

CAIN talked generally about syndicate operations,

but actually

furnished no new or specific information.

He did mention that

he had performed some wiretapping and commented that he had

tapped the wire of Mayor RICHARD DALEY, and then mailed the

tapes anonymously to the Mayor.

FORAN stated that the tape was a general mish-mash

of past activity, and according to MORRISSEY was taken for

the purpose of permitting CAIN to demonstrate that he possesses

the background and

knowledge to be an "excellent Government

under-cover Agent," should he be released from jail. FORAN

commented that HANRAHAN kept pressing for information concerning

OGILVIE, but CAIN furnished nothing specific.

FORAN speculated, in strictest confidence,

that the

reason why the Department of Justice asked for FORAN's resignation,

effective 7/1/69, as U.S. Attorney, was that the Department feared

that HANRAHAN, Cook County State's

Attorney, a Democrat, might

work with FORAN, a Democrat, to embarrass the Republican administra-

tion.

Of further interest, it is to be noted that CG 7356-C

advised on 6/2/69, that information is now all over the Federal

tier at the Cook County Jail where RICHARD CAIN was incarcerated,

that CAIN had been offered a deal by Cook County State's Attorney

EDWARD V. HANRAHAN for his cooperation. Informant stated

that CAIN had allegedly been interviewed extensively by HANRAHAN

and reportedly had appeared before the Cook County Grand Jury.

Informant stated that the information he had received was

that CAIN had offered HANRAHAN information to the effect that

all of the gambling raids conducted by CAIN while he was

Chief Investigator for the Cook County Sheriff's Office, under

former Sheriff OGILVIE, had been conducted with the consent of

SAM GIANCANA, head of organized crime in Chicago.

- 2 -

DocId: 32326884 Page 2

---

