# docid-32304663

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennetly

Assassination Records Collection Aot DI 1992 (41 USe 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10286-10293

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-1ST NR 578

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CV

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

01/28/1964

4

LCN, LIAISON WITH DOS, DOJ, INS, PINDILLI, JOSEPH, AKA,

BGK, REL, CRIMINAL ACT, MED, VISA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

. ...

v9.1

DocId: 32304663

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

-GSAGEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES OVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Director, FBI

FROM :

SAC, Cleveland

SUBJECT:

CAVBOMB

Bufile 157-742

OV File 157-127

CRIVE CONDITIONS, YOUNGSTOWN

AND MAHONING COUNTY, OHIO

ANL I-RACKETEERING

Bufile 92-5437

CV File 92-621

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

CLEVELAND DIVISION

Bufile 62-9-Sub 11

OV F1le 92-477

GA COSA NOSTRA, aka.

ANTI-RACKENEERING - CONSPIRACY

Butile 92-6054

CV File 92-748

DATE:

January 28, 1964

IN'S

REVIEWED BY POWJFK TASK FORCE

ON 4/22192 J ML/DAb /2/

X RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

TOP ECHELON CRIMINAL INFORMANT PROGRAM

CLEVELAND DIVISION

Bufile 66-2542

CV F1le 137-1130

Re Cleveland airtel, 1/17/64.

on January 20, 1964, Mr. RICHARD HITE, Supervisory

Investigator, Immigration and

Naturalization Service (INS),

Cleveland, Ohio, advised SA EDWIN B. BIRNEY that the extensiv

(11

Bureau. (RV

(1 - 137-1826)

6 - Cleveland

(1 - 137-341)

• JFK hs

(17)

58 FEB 10198

letter ant tren

215/64 per

92-6054=

NOT RECORDED

133 JAN 31 1964

ORIGINAL FILED 1N

157742-

DocId: 32304663 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Reteased under the John F. Kennedy AssassinatIon Records Collection Act Of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Mbte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CV 157-127

"The file also shows that, although Mr. PINDILLI

never married, he lived with a woman out of wedlock from

1910 to 1927,

and as a result, six children were born to

them in this country.

His alleged wife was ordered de-

ported on July 16, 1930, also on

a narcotics charge.

mission into the United States after deportation. This

application was denied on July 14, 1960.

"With reference to your request for copies of

"We trust that this is a satisfactory response

to your inquiry."

he hinton d part the National, As we-las,

at this point by INs, exercising their semi-judiciary powers.

HILL advised that the complete file on PINDILLI is

maintained in Cleveland, Ohio, and would no longer be located

at St. Paul, Minnesota, where it had been located at one time.

It is felt by the Cleveland Division that PINDILLI,

who is now 77 years of age, would no longer be a threat to law

enforcement in the United States and especially since he is in

declining health and could be controlled by. CV 344-C.

It is also felt that if arrangements could be made

discreetly through Bureau liaison with the State Department

and/or INS at Washington, D. Co, for the re-entry of PINDILLI

into the United States on a visitor's visa, specific information

as to the present structure of the La Cosa Nostra can be obtained.

Additionally, it should be noted that Cv 344-C stated that his

father would

unquestionably be able to determine details con-

cerning such items as the CAVALLARO killing, the killing of the.

NAPLES brothers in Youngstown, and the VINCE DE NIRO killing

-3

DocId: 32304663 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992 (44 USC 2107 HOtey

DATE: 11-14-2017

CV 157-127

which are apparently all related. He noted that PINDILLI would

not divulge this information to anyone but he (CV 344-C) could

obtain and relay whatever, information PINDILLI obtained to this

Bureau.

It is also believed unlikely that PINDILLI would become

a problem while in the United States on a visitor's visa, but

should this occur his visa could be cancelled and he could then

be returned to Argentina.

If excellent intelligence information

is fortheoming due to his presence in the United States, it is

felt that the temporary visitor's visa could then be extended

to take full advantage of his position in the "organization."

It is requested that the Bureau through liaison with

the State Department,

the Department of Justice (Anti-Racketeering

Section) and/or INS at Washington, D. C., ascertain how a visa

may be obtained for PINDILLI.

Information furnished by CV 344-C reflected in Cleveland

airtel to the Bureau, dated January 17, 1964, is being paraphrased

and disseminated to other interested divisions.

-4-

DocId: 32304663

Page 4

---

