# docid-32306113

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination Systen

Date:

5/20/201

Identification For

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10289-10243

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2231

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: • FBI

FROM:

SAC, BU

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/08/1968

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, CRIMINAL ACT, RANDACCIO, FRED G.

CONVICTION, APPEAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306113

Page 1

42

---

## Page 2

Released under the Join l'. Kennedy Assassination Records

COlection

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-04)

NP

11191650

79y2 144 05c 2107 Hotel.

Mi, T. leon.

PIT.

:ich

M".

Wiries --

FBI

Date:

1/8/68

Transmit the following in

Via

AIR-TEL

(Type in plaintext or code)

_AIR MAIL

(Priority)

Mr.

Surel

Tele. ioom

-109.

Miss judy

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

FROM: SAC, BUFFALO (92-337) (P)

LA COSA NOSTRA

BUFFALO DIVISION

AR

4..

The Bureau has been previously advised under

case

captioned,

"FRED G. RANDACCIO, aka; ET AL, AR - HOBBS

ACT," Bufile 92-9993, Buffalo File

92-174, of the con-

victions and sentencing of RANDACCIO, STEPHEN CINO,

PASQUALE NATARELLI, CHARLES CACI, and LOUIS SORGI in

mentioned case.

On 1/8/68, Deputy U. S. Marshal EVALINE L. WAHL,

Buffalo, New York, advised that NATARELLI is currently in-

carcerated in the Federal Penitentiary, Atlanta, Georgia;

RANDACCIO at the Federal Penitentiary at Terre Haute,

Pennsylvania. All of these Individuals are to be confined

Penal authorities to transfer these individuals to any other

Penal institution must be cleared first with the Attorney

General.

Since the conviction of RANDACCIO, the under boss

OI STEVE MAGADDINO, close contact has been had by the Buffalo

Office with Top Echelon criminal informants and with local,

State,

and Federal intelligence agencies in an effort to

determine any changes in the LCN structural setup since

RANDACCIO's conviction.

BU 409-C-TE has

reported that no successor to

RANDACCIO will be chosent

uncil a definite determination

Bureau (AM)

REC-35

12-6054-00

31

Buffalo

GRM: mf'm

1 JAN 12 1968

(4)

C. C.

Bishop.

Approved:

5JAM 5515gal Ani in Charge

Sent

_M Per

DocId: 32306113 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-337

has been made in the Courts concerning RANDACCIO's appeal.

This source stated that no change will

such time®

be the case, in order that no power struggle will result

among members of the "MAGADDINO Family,"

should the results

of his appeal

prove successful.

This source reported that SALVATORE J. PIERI,

subject of Bureau file 92-6573, Buffalo file 92-389, is.

attempting to curry favor with former RANDACCIO associates

in the gambling field, particularly in bookmaking, without

success.

It is to be noted that this source has previously

reported that PIERI is not a member of the "MAGADDINO Family"

but is alleged to be connected with the "JOE COLOMBO Family'

of New York City.

BU 305-C-TE has also reported that no change has

taken place nor any contemplated pending the adjudication

Of RANDACCIO's appeal on his recent conviction.

Similarly,

this source reported that no replacement for RANDACCIO will

take place in order to avoid any

members of the "MAGADDINO Family, Power struggle between the

until such time as the re-

sult. of RANDACCIO's appeal is known.

Local, State, and Federal intelligence agencies con-

tacted in connection with this matter have in substance fur-

nished the same information as furnished by the above sources.

As the Bureau is aware, VICTOR RANDACCIO, the brother

OI FRED RANDACCIO, is the Secretary-Treasurer of Local 210,

International Hod Carriers and Common Laborers Union of America,

Buffalo, New York, Bureau file 92-5354, Buffalo file 92-246.

Sures 220

It would be logical to assume that in the event any change or

aam ISPlacement of FRED RANDACCIO IS made by the "MACADDINO

that the first indication will be the removal of

VICTOR RANDACCIO from his position as Secretary-Treasurer

of Local 210.

In this connection, close contact is being

maintained with all sources of this office to determine any

contemplated changes in Local 210 replacing VICTOR RANDACCIO,

which would be an indication that the

templates the removal of FRED RANDACCIO from a position of

authority in the "MAGADDINO Family."

-2 -

DocId: 32306113 Page 3

---

