# docid-32576743

## Page 1

Transinit the following in

Via

AIRPEL

FBI

Date: 9/4/69

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priorizy)

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (166-4355)

SiC, BOSTON

(266-845) (P)

LUIGI GIOVANNI MANACCHIO, aKa

FUGITIVE;

TANK ANTHONY VENDITUOLI, aKa

Frank Vendi -

FUGITIVE;

EXT AJ

TEAR - GAMBLING

(00:

Boston)

The following is to advise the Bureau of current

and planned investigation to locate and apprehend subjects

MANACCHIO and VENDI:

All established ICN informants at Boston Division

have been contacted regarding this matter.

Informant

information to date indicates possibility that subject

MANACCHIO is in New York City with girl friend,

identity

not known, and possibly in contact with CARLO GAMBINO.

ICN Commission member, and NICK BIANCO, LON, Brooklyn,

BLANCO and GAMSINO and attempting to identifysgirl friend

Of MANACCHIO.

Boston Division.continuing efforts also

THOMAS DILUGLIC, Frovidence,

and close friend

of MANACCHIO confidentially advised

Bureau Agents that MANACCHIO telephonically in contact

Bureau

RIC&

Boston

1664355-76

SMM:mej

(5)

5 SEP 8 1969

363

SEP. 151969

Sproved.

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45839 DooId: 32576743

Page 1

---

## Page 2

BS 166--845

SUUM TABN FORCE

7

RE. 3RDE IN FULL

-13

PLEASE IN

what action to take"

and when he

took care of sone personal matters over the next two

weeks, he planned to surrender

to the FBI.

DILUGLIO

stated that MAÑACCHIO is quite concerned about effect of

publicity regarding case on aged mother and brother,

Dr. ANTHONY MANACCHIO, Obstetrician at Rhode Island

Hospital, Providence.

DILUGLTO contended he did not know

whereabouts of MANACCHIo and, if contacted again, will

strongly urge MANACCHIO to surrender.

DILUGIIO will be

contacted further regarding the above information.

continued pressure through interviews and fisurs will be

conducted on close associates of MANACCHIO in order to

effect his arrest through

surrendes or capture.

Informant for Internal Revenue Servica, Providences

advised that MANACCHIO possibly in Italy and

Alitalia.

Flight records at Al-

italia being checked re this possibility at air terminals

York City and Boston; also passport information re

MANACCHIO being checked through WEO.

RAYMOND JOSEPA PATRIARCA, Providence, R. I.,

gon of

subject PATRIARCA, contacted 9/4/69 and

agreed

to

wavel

to Atlanta, Georgia, and discuss fugitive status

MANACCHIO and

VENDI with father, currently incarcerated

Atlanta

he Atlanta Fe

Federal

Penitentiary.

RAYMOND JOSEPH state

"neat"

generated by the FBI in fugitive

investigation is reflecting adversely on father and other

subjects

in this case, stating

that certain

unnamed

in Providence now are

saying that

"FBI must

good case or MANACCHIO and VENdI would not have run. "have

RAYMOND JOSEPH aLSO stated he hopes his lather will okay

"passing word down to Providence" to have subjects surrender

to FBI in order to quell such talk. This aspect of investi

gation will be

followed closely..

Investigation concerning subject VENDI is being

centered on cooperation being given Bureau Agents by close

members of VENDI's immediate family, located in Seekonk

and Fall River, Mass., and Barrington, R. I. Extensive

background information developed concerning VENDI and

set forth at Jacksonville, Miami, and Orlando,

Florida,

where subject recently traveled on vacation and possibly

has business interests.

Both of subject's ex-wives indicate

they will turn subject over if he makes contact.

AlSO,

subject's brother,.

Deputy Chief of Police MIKE VENDITUOLI,

Barrington, R. I.,

who at first was uncooperative in this

matter,

now fully cooperative with Bureau Agents

is providing essential background information re subject

which is being checked out.

-2-

166-4355-26

NW 45839 DocId: 32576743

Page 2

---

