# docid-32199650

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (14 Use 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10273-10385

RECORD SERIES: DI

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 89A-DL-60165-64

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, DL

SAC, HO

DATE: 03/27/1992

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 89A-DL-60165-5

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/24/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32199650

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

..DATE: 11-11-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 11-17-88)

TRANSMIT VIA:

Teletype

Facsimile

AIRTEL

SECRET

PRECEDENCE:

Immediate

Priority

Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

L

UNCLAS EFT O

UNCLAS

Date 3/27/92

TO

: SAC, HOUSTON

FROM

: SAC, DALLAS (89A-DL-60165)

SUBJECT : ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY;

11/22/63;

DALLAS, TEXAS;

00: DALLAS

ND 5110 ABSKSE

(55K) 424196

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 S40/GCe

REASON:

1.5

(ed)

DECLASSIFY ON: X_(1/(6/

Enclosed for Houston and the Bureau are two copies

of the letter dated

March 8, 1992 from inmate THOMAS WHITE ILI

to Assistant United

States Attorney (AUSA) LARRY E. JARRETT;

and two copies of a letter dated March 12, 1992 between the

same two individuals.

Also enclosed are two copies of January

21, 1992 airtel from WMFO to Bureau

On March 11, 1992, AUSA LARRY E. JARRETT, UNITED

STATES ATTORNEY'S OFFICE, Northern District of Texas, Dallas,

rexas, provided

the original of the March 8, 1992 letter

described above to FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI),

A pertinent portion of that letter describes

an incident which WHITE claims occurred in Tampa, Florida, in

WHITE describes overhearing a meeting which occurred

between SANTO TRAFFICANTE, FRANK IPPILITO, aka "COWBOY, and an

attorney by the name of FRANK/REGANO at an establishment

identified as theS. M. S. ITALIAN CLUB, located on 19th

street and 8th Avenue, Tampa, Florida.

It is alleged that the

conversation involved

the assassination of President JOHN F.

KENNEDY.

3-Houston

(Enc)

2-Bureau

2-Dallas

(Enc)

GLG/mAnH

(7)

Sertalize

index -

PAppron

Scarcit

-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

89A-DL-600165-64

Transmitted

(Number)

SERRFT

Per

(Time)

DocId: 32199650 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

89A-DL-60165

SECRET

In the March 12, 1992 letter, WHITE expresses his

concerns possible

• inmate retribution.

The January 21, 1992 airtel from Washington Field

Office to the Director has

been provided as background

information.

Houston should be advised that prior to working as

the AUSA,

JARRETT worked as an Assistant District Attorney

for Dallas County. JARRETT's first contact with WHITE

occurred when WHITE sent in an unsolicited letter to JARRETT

regarding the involvement of an individual in a rape case

which JARRETT was handling. As a result of testimony WHITE

provided, a conviction for

aggravated rape was obtained by

JARRETT in state court against an individual by the name of

MARIO GARCIA. AUSA JARRETT advised that he never promised

WHITE anything for his testimony in the GARCIA case.

LEADS

HOUSTON DIVISION

AT ALICE UNIT NUMBER ONE, HUNTSVILLE, TEXAS:

Houston is requested to interview THOMAS WHITE III

regarding his knowledge of the 1963 meeting between

TRAFFICANTE, REGANO, and IPPILITO.

should attempt to obtain any identifying information regarding

the location of the meeting, the participants, and the topics

of discussion.

Additionally, Houston should attempt to illicit

specific information regarding a Tampa police officer

identified only as FNU MASSEY, a black male, who worked in the

"Central Avenue" community of Tampa, Florida in 1963.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Regarding the January 21, 1992, airtel from WMFO to

Dallas, Houston should abide by all of the.

SECRET.

DocId: 32199650

Page 3

---

