# docid-32205017

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

8/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

ROCKCOM

RECORD NUMBER :

178-10002-10045

RECORD SERIES: BELIN-GRAY-GREENE FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: B-G-G FILE, CIA CORRESPONDENCE FEB 1975

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

CIA

FROM: KNOCHE, E.H.

TO :

BELIN, DAVID

TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NW 53310 Date: 06-14-2017

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/07/1975

5

CIA

JIM GARRISON TRIAL

NOSENKO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/29/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Items 20 and 21 are pertinent.

w9.l

HW 53310

DocId: 32205017

Page 1

29

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

178-10002-10045

7 February 1975

Mr. David W. Belin

Executive Director

Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States

Dear Mr. Belin:

This is in effect a status report on responses to the requests

you made in your letter of 30 January 1975 to Mr. Colby.

With regard to the 31 numbered requests, following is the status:

1. There is considerable detail on this subject

contained in Annexes A, B, C, and D of Mr. Colby's

report to the President of 24 December 1974 and in

Appendix I of the Director's 13 January 1975 statement

to the Commission.

We will shortly provide you with a

description of the extent and nature of the files

involved in this activity.

Several of the codewords listed in your

30 January, letter relate to this activity:

MHPASHA: (your #13) was the original

codename assigned to the activity;

FROM THE GERALD R.

FORD LIBPARY

guidance on 29 August 1973.

2. A report is in preparation.

3. The "unauthorized entry" list, is now five in

number-an outgrowth of our continuing review.

(your #3). Reports on each have been or soon will

be supplied to you.

4. Sunmaries are being provided.

The case of

the two newspaper reporters is MOCKINGBIRD (your #6) .

-SEERET.

H# 53310

DocId: 32205017

Page 2

---

## Page 3

-SECRET.

5. Physical surveillance of the five reporters

has been reported to you under CELOTEX (your #7) and

MUDHEN (formerly CHLOTEX II - your #8). One of three

cases involving employees or ex-employees is BUTANE

(your #4). All in this category has been or will

soon be sent to you. Additional cases of surveillance

of employees have been identified and will be reported

to you.

6. This is PARAGON (your #2). A report will soon

be sent.

7. This involves projects TPOCTONAL and AZLINEN :

(Headguarters building) and ZRALIKE: (NPIC) • Reports

will soon be submitted.

8. The Office of Security dissident monitoring

activity in the Washington, D.C. area was carried out

under Project MERRIMAC (yOUr #12). The project for

collecting information in other areas was called

RESISTANCE. Material on both projects has been or

is being provided in separate folders.

This iten is being provided in a separate

folder with the title "Security Vulnerabilities Index."

10. Three programs have been identified concerned

with mail coverage of Conmunist countries, as follows:

New York City - SRPOINTER (your #9)

San Francisco - MKSOURDOUGH/WESTPOINTER

Hawaii

- No code name assigned

One program did not involve U.S. Mail but covered surveillance

of mail while in the custody of the U.S. Customs Office in

New Orleans - SETTER.

Another program involved intercept of

mail in New York City involving one individual, a Pakistanian.

The project was called SRINDIAN.

Reports on these projects

are being or have been submitted to you in separate folders.

Also, a sunmary of the mail operations is being provided in

a separate folder.

11. This was a very small program directed toward

obtaining names of those involved in telephone exchanges,

but information on message content was not sought. Material

is being assembled and will be provided in a separate folder.

PHOTOCOPY

FROM

THE

GERALD R. FORD LIBPARY

-2-

-SECREL

HH

53310

DocId: 32205017

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

12. There are two programs to insert individuals

into dissident groups in the U.S. for the ultimate purpose

of collecting foreign intelligence overseas:

MHCHAOS - (your #14). An activity of

the Counter-Intelligence Staff.

MPLODESTAR - (your #1) .

An activity of

the East Asia Division.

Material on MPLODESTAR is being provided in a separate folder.

13. Audio surveillance is a topic of continuing research.

As soon as possible we will provide a summary document. Additional

details on specific cases will be available upon request.

14 and 15. Reports will be submitted shortly.

16. A short report will be submitted soon. The project

dealing with foreign national physicians is called HMNIECE!

17. This is a very large requirement. Inasmuch as Appendix

M was already prepared in a reasonably complete form, we are

currently attempting to provide material related to pages 3

through 9 of the attachment to the Inspector General's memorandum

of May 21, 1973.

18. This is a very complex question which we have divided

into three parts.

One surmary paper covers our involvement in

research on techniques for influencing human behavior and on

methods of protecting Agency personnel against hostile use of

drugs or "brain working" techniques. This paper will be

available shortly in a separate folder. Another paper will

cover the development and testing of intelligence related

equipment and related research activities, including the

testing of equipment to intercept conversations or electronic

signals and the testing of overhead reconnaissance systems.

A third paper will cover testing of equipment measuring

physiological responses in human subjects.

These last two

papers will be submitted as soon as possible.

19. This will soon be available.

20. This is the Nosenko case. A report has been submitted:

21. At the request of our then Deputy General Counsel,

Mr. John Warner, the Central Cover Staff provided alias birth

œertificates for a family of four.

This met a request of the

Department of Justice for redocumenting a witness who hac

testified against former District Attorney Garrison of New

Orleans. The only other salient details on this were covered

by the Director in his statement to the Commission on 27 January 1975.

HOTOCOPY

FROM

THE

GERALD R.

FORD LIBPARY

-3-

_ SECRET

HH 53310

DocId: 32205017 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET.

-

22. Agreement was reached with you that we would provide

opies of material dealing with the Watergate affair which ha

een turned over to the Special Prosecutor.

We are in the

23. A report will be submitted shortly.

24. There are two short, separate statements pertaining

to this request we will submit under the title "Vesco -

Investors Overseas Service."

25. A report will soon be submitted.

26. In 1959 the Office of Security's Field Officer in

Los Angeles made arrangements for an unmarried female to accompany

a foreign dignitary to a dinner.

She is now a happily married

woman in New York City. We think these details should suffice.

27. Material will be provided under a separate cover.

28. A statement will be submitted soon.

29. This is part of the operations under question 31 and

will not be commented on separately.

30. This request has been divided into two reports, one

covering polygraph support to other agencies and one covering

the relationship with the San Mateo County Sheriff's office.

These two reports will be submitted shortly in a single folder.

31. A summary covering primarily the coordination procedures

involved in this type of activity will be submitted as soon as

possible. It involves inter-Agency matters and may take a bit of

time.

List of Code Words

1. MPLODESTAR - See question 12

2. PARAGON, - See question 6

3. ¡SIESTA - See question 3

4. #BUTANE - See question 5

5. REDFACE - See question 3

6. MÖCKINGBIRD - See question 4

-4-

_SECRET

HH 53310

DocId: 32205017

Page 5

PHOTOCOPY

FROM

THE

GERALD R.

FORD LIBPARY

---

## Page 6

SECRET.

7. CELEOTEX I (now CHLOTEX) - See question 5

8. CELOTEX II (now MUDHEN) - See question 5

9. SRPOINTER - See question 10.

10. MKSOURDOUGH - See question 10

11. MHBOUND II - MHBOUND II is a proprietary which in the

instance cited was involved in a project

termed IWOFOLD. A separate folder has

been submitted under this designator.

12. MERRIMAC - See question 8

13., MHPASHA - See question 1

14. MHCHAOS - See question 1

15. MHVAPOR - See question 1

16. LONGSHAFT - A short report will be submitted.

17. AELADLE - This is a subject I will take up with you

orally.

18. KITTENS - A report is being submitted in a separate

folder.

19. ANTLERS: - I will take up with you orally.

20. IPMEDLEY: - A report will be submitted soon.

In a meeting between Mr. Greene and Messrs. Taylor and Brody of

this Agency, some agreement was reached as to how to respond to the

next to the last paragraph in your letter, and the answer is in

process.

Faithfully yours,

HOTOCOPY

FROM

THE

GERALD

E. H. Knoche

Assistant to the Director

-SECRET.

NH 53310

DooId: 32205017

Page 6

---

