# docid-32271077

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

2/5/2016

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10141-10273

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

13-23-02

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

HSCA

CIA

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/13/1978

12

Released under the John

F. Kennedu

issassination Records

Collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:WH 53080 Date:

06-01-2017

'CIA, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE : NOTES

CLASSIFICATION: • Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/02/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 6

v9.1

HH 53080

DocId: 32271077

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Leslie wizelman

3/13/28

Os file

Edward k. moss

.OS

The moss file contains the following information and

documents:

Deputy

O memo for the Chief. of Security Research Staff, 14 may 1973 in

which a memo.. dated 28 Feb 1968 is seferred.to. The referencec

memo.. states. that. "a verbal report from dun & Bradstreet recognizes

moss' long standing... 'matia"

...connections...

"moss' operation

seems... to be government contracts for the underworld and

probably surtaces mafia money in legitimate business ast urties"

This memo also states..: that from 1950-53, moss was serving on

appointed position with the us Gout, first as an Assistant

Administrator in Charge at Publiè Information, National Production

Althority; and then with the Defense Production Administrate,

both with the Dept. of Commerce.

a- who's who in America- entry tur moss.

3- Duns Bradstreet report dated Sept 27, 1968. On Tune 1, 1960

moss merged his acturtes with Howard Chase Associates, Inci

moss was also pres. of a wholly owned subsiclary, chase &

moss, Inc, wash. D.C.. June 1,1961 partes agreed to demerge with

assets returned to respective owners. Settlement negorations led

to singation. In 1964- settlement was ettected. In 1965 moss

served as Asst Director, 0E0, with responsibilities onserve

for puble aftairs ad ursue

to the white House Conference on civil

Rights:

SECRET.

53080 DocId:32271077 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

-7-

moss

@ A June 29,1967 Dun & Bradstreet report states that muss

is a principal in. General: Inter natonal, which is stated to be

an Italian. corporation engaged as consultants in economic ance

business area development, Europe, Atrica, & in Asia.

6 A memo to the tole, dated April 1967 re moss.... The last approval

granteaby the offreat security far moss' use was" a covert

Security Approval dated 7 November 1aba" to enable mosai

use " by the polstical Group of the CAstaff."

6 memo..., date a3 march 1965. states that ne obtained

a covert security. approval in 1959 ana cA in 1962 for.

moss..in..the.. publiè relations fielo.

7- 30 Nou 1962- memo from Political Action Group./ couert

Achun staff requests any objections. to the use at the muss

as a

public.relations adorsor.

MAJOR

ZR BANES

project.

8-19 mar- 1959 memo frum DD of security refers to request

for CSA to permit moss' use as an informant. on the plans,

actiurtes and programs of the Indian Embassy in which he

Is engaged or of which he is knowledgeable,

HH

53080 DocId: 32271077. Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

os summary

hestié wizelman

3/13/78

Muna

Joseph Ray

meroia

DOB

...goct 1925

POB: Turtle Creek; Penna.

The file on Joseph merola contains the following information

and dócuments:

O memo dated as Jan 1974. re office ut secupity files. States that

merola tirst come to the. Agency's ees atention in 1961 when he

visited.Justin.F.Gleichauf. who was then..chief

of the miami

contact Division. merola sald he had into.. concerning a

Brazilian Senator, a close friend and contidant of che Guevarra..

It was selt that merola's reason fur contacting the Agency was to

ascertain. if the Agency would interuene with the Fed. court

to rescina the.

a5 mile travel restriction. He was informed

that the Agency could be of no assistance... mr. meroia also

said be had been engaged in gunrunning in behalf of Castro

during the revolt against Batista and had been recelved warmly

by castro & Camilo Cienfuegos..:

merola again contacted

the Agency on au nou 197a intor ming that he was guirig to jail

tur

one year......

No further contact with merola..

@ A Feb 15, 1964 cable from miami reports that

3 people have

been arrested. for theft at dynamite a allegal possession of

explosives. Carming that they stole the dynamite on behalf of

merola, a cIA agent.

"merola is not a cIA agent but usech

soley as an informant by IMPALm."

53080 DocId: 32271077 Page 4

---

## Page 5

-z

SECTS

merola

3- memo of visit to merola dated 8 Feb 1961, reports

Brazilian senator story. merola said that sam kay, one uf his

assocrates. in the Latin: American contraband business; told him

that the senator was interested in developing a project whereby

large quantities. at whiskey would be smuggled into Brazil.

(contacts in cuba with castro.) be was also in contact with:

colonel.. "Johnnie" Abbes, head of the Dominican secret police.

"merola also indicatod... that he is very well acquainted with

-.. Antonio de varona, hend of the frD, and felt that he would be

able to... provide detinite assistance to the frente.. should he

be called upon. He has a 63' boat available: which he would

not be adverse: to "landing" to his friends.

AHH 53080

DooId:32271077 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

Ös summary

bestiè wizelman

3/13/78

Eduardo

asua

The tile contains the following information a documents:

A miami Herald article , dated al oct 1969, reported the

arrest of 3 men, Eduardo Whitehouse, Jose Roberto Silvera,

and Hector Silvera for recerving& cuncealing stolen property after

they tried to sell 1100,000 worth of stolen ameraft radio equipment.

@ Background info- Dog - 14 march 19F9

......PUB: Cuba.

-Arrived in us at. Port Everglades, Fla... on 10 April 1959. Left us. an

8 April 1968 , arroved us again on 4 sept 1961 at New Yorkcity.

Issued le-Entry Permit in march 196à for travel to congo. us.

congressman Dante Fascell introduced a bill. in congress in June 1963

to restore has citizenship to whitenoue; that subject took pert in

"Bay of pigs invasin", that he contracted in 1961. to "fiy for the:

United Natiors in the congro".

.#rR...He was associated with. Liberal

Party in Cuba 1937-59. Recerued Re-Entry Permist in Dec 1963 fur

travel to mexico. INs File #A- 11 241. 940. Whitehouse wal

represented by.. Attorney monroe Geld. on march 5, 1962

Re-entry permit,. Whitehowe... listed his employer as L.B. Smith

Aircraft Corpuration, miami, Fla.

In Feb 1964 - Whitehouse resided in miami

In June 1964=

on Dallas (6141 Oramst.)

In Oct 1964

in miami

Employment on tune 1964 was with RANsAarlines, miam.

53080

DocId: 32271077 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECT

3- A brographical data furm lists employment as

July 1964-Present- North Shore Villas, Pubile Relations.

Jan 1963- June 1964- Panauen Airlines, panama -

Operatruns conn/tain)

500+ 1943-500 1959° Cubana Airlines- Pilot.

1961-1963"

Insurance salesman

The above information is trom an investigation: conductec in the

fall. of 1964.

AHH 53080 DocId:32271077 Page 7

---

## Page 8

summary

heshè wizelman

3/13/78

idward Browder

DOB : 22 June

1917

poB: Amarillo, Texas

The file contaiins.: the following documents and information.

Office memorandum -1954... "Sabatino, Edward Browder aka

Edward Browder:; Us Crtizen wuing in mexico. Born about 1917

Adaress: Hotes monle cassino, mexico city.

@ memo fur chief, specal security duuision, subj: National Ageney

namechecks..om.Edwarc.Browder.sabatno@pBsuccess..a7.may 1954

"In operational suppurt. of

Project PBsuccess, itis requested that

your oftice initate prioritynationel agency name checks, wsith.

specialemphasis.on.info.develuped.fromImmigratiun.and

Naturalization.and.Dept.otstate.on.one. Edward Browder

sabatno."

Q- memo, dated as may 1954, for Deputy Chief SSD frum Chref,

Operations Branch.....

subj Brouder.

"GIST : WH(PBsuccess) requests inturmation regarding subject and

Louis sabatino.

DETAILS:

1- The subject is of interest to: wHt Divisicr (PBsuccels)

and has requested this affice to conduct certain inquiries.

a- Becaue of the sensitiurly of this case, it is

requested that the foles. of the FBI bechecked through

mr. Papich, concerning the subject and houis sabatino."

4 Couert NameCheck Report -a8 may 1954

© Passpurt fle Check

.az may 1954

6

undenhified document

vsbts

"The subject case, while still pending,;

was cancelled by requert of the Chièf ,öperatins prosect posuccess."

д HH

53080 DocId:32271077 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

OS

Leslie wizelman

3/13/78

Dino cellini

The cellini, file cuntained one memorandum.. to the

Deputy Chief, security Research staff; subj: Edwarak. Moss

Datea. 14 may 1968 .....

Related. moss/cellini:/varona comnection.

53080 DocId:32271077 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SESHET

L Wizelman

os summary

3/13/78

Norman Rothman

The tile contaned one la pertinent memo, dated

as April 1975: which contaned general intormation..

It was reported that in late 1959, Ruthman was managing

a hotel in miämi Beach, Fla, which reportedly. was owned

by ex-cuban. President Bahsta, through Batista's

brother-in-law, Roberto Fernandez miranda.

53080 • DocId: 32271077 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

us summary

Leslie Wizelmon

3/13/78

John martino

The martino file contains a one page document. dated 8Jan 196a;

case 36,973 - Drexel Gibsun. most of the page is deleted.

Pertinent segment states:

6. When Gibson was transferred to la cabana he found only

one other us. Citizen there, a retired us. army officer named

John martino. martino, beleued to be from miami, Florida., went

to cuba in early 1960, fur business reasons and was picked üp

at the airport in Havana on arrival. He was held

incommunicado... for 14. months at El. Principe and is nou serving

a 14 year sentence at la labana on charges of being the head

of the "White Rose" anti-castro organization. martino is

desparately ill. with kidney and duer ailments and receives

no medical care. His ponysical condition...

has kept.timfrom

being transferned to the Isle of pines.

is Hand corten

trom martinois name..

'Drug Addict.".

-HW 53080 DocIa: 32271077 Page 11

---

