# docid-32301596

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY : • FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10278-10431

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 97-4474-112

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/12/1964

' PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, MEMBERS, MIL ACT, LAS VILLAS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NN 45881 DocId:32301596 Page 1

38

---

## Page 2

4-3 fiRer. 1-117-631

-

DECODED COPY

AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

RADIO

XXTELETYPE

Tolson:

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale .

1080

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room.

Holmes

Gandy

REWEWED BY EBUIFA TASK FORG

12:30 PM EST 5-12-64 URGENT

TO DIRECTOR

FROM MIAMI 121655

ON

PA

L.

7-23-98 dod

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

MOVTENTO INSURRECIONAL RECUPERAGION REVOLUCIONARIO (MIRA.

A IS-CUBA, NM.

REMYTEL MAY 11, 1964, THIRD PARAGRAPH.

DATE MAY 19, RELATING TO RENTAL OF 26 FOOT BERTRAM

SPEEDBOAT, SHOULD

BE CORRECTED TO READ MAY 12, 1964.

U.S. CUSTOMS ADVISED MAY 12 THAT IT HAS VERIFIED THROUGH

INVESTIGATION THAT ONE FULLER, FIRST NAME GIVEN AS THEODORE,

MADE ARRANGEMENTS MAY 11 WITH BERTRAMS BOAT YARD TO OBTAIN NE

RENTAL OF BERTRAM 25 FOOT BOAT AT 8 AM, MAY 12. CUSTOMS

ALSO DETERMINED THROUGH SURVEILLANCE AND INVESTIGATION THAT

A HOME MADE TORPEDO WAS TESTED IN MAULE LAKE, MIAMI, NIGHT

OF MAY 11 BY SOME UNIDENTIFIED CUBANS WHO STORED TORPEDO

IN A SPECIFIC HOUSE ON N.W. 29TH AVE. NEAR 9TH ST. AFTER

COMPLETION OF TEST. CUSTOMS ADVISED IT HAS PLACED APPRO-

PRIATE SURVEILLANCE ON THE BERTRAM SPEEDBOAT AND RESIDENCE

WHERE TORPEDO LOCATED, IN ORDER TO STOP INSTANT RAID.

ON EARLY MORNING MAY 12,

FURNISHED EXACT LOCATION WHERE

NAPALM BOMBS ARE SCHEDULED

PRETECTIO

TO BE TAKEN BY LAREDO RODRIGUEZ FOR LOADING ON PLANE,

PURSUANT TO ORIGINAL PLANS OF ORLANDO BOSCH, HEAD OF MIRR.

ALSO MAKING FIRST SCHEDULED PLANE SURVEILLANCE TO

LOCATE

"LAS VILLAS" ON MORNING MAY 12, BUT THIS IS PRIMARILY

PRACTICE RUN AS " LAS VILLAS" NOT EXPECTED REACH FLÓRIDA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

REC 40

97444744

1112

DATE

BYSPORTA/ECL

• MAY 26 1964

legace

1964

UN She raine one india he die a crope in ente unreminated uside the Bureau, i foo e sutrabis

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems:

OTHER 4

NW 45881 DocId:32301596 Page 2

---

## Page 3

2-3 dev: 1-2-631, •

• AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

• CABLEGRAM

- RADIO xX TELETYPE

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper -

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes _

Gandy =

PAGE TWO FROM MIAMI 121655

COAST TODAY.

ALL PERTINENT INFO FURNISHED CUSTOMS. CLOSE LIASION

BEING MAINTAINED WITH CUSTOMS. CLOSE CONTACT BEING MAINTAINED

WITH

OT

RECEIVED: 1:40 PM TRM

fare intelligence co to red in the auree messype ran be diseminated outside the Bureau, i

it is suggested that it be suitab

HW 45881 DocId: 32301596 Page 3

---

