# docid-32340965

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10221-10358

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 97-4474-1ST NR 360

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/08/1967

6

MIRR, OBA, ASSOC, MEETING, ACA, DEMONSTRATION,

ARREST, LEADERSHIP, NY, NJ, YANES, PEDRO, BKG,

DESCR, REL, RES, EMP

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT, PHOTO

CLASSIFICATION :

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS :

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9:1

DocId: 32340965

Page

1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Т390121

CONFIDENTIAL

8/8/67

ALE ENFORMAZION CONTALNED

HERELU 1S UNCLASSIRTEO

EXCEPT WHERE SNOWY

OTHERWISE

ALRITL

REGISTERED MAIL

• DIRECTOR, FBI

* SAC, HEM YORK (205-

41715 5680W/GAT

Classified by StA BIA BeL

Declassify on: OADR 9/25/95

(UFK)

SUBJEOT: PEDRO ARMANDO TOMAS YANES Y ORTEGA

aka Pedro Armando Yanes

IS-CUBA

ReBuairtels 6/21 and 0/1/0%, captioned,

LNSUKRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA. (MIRK) : IS-CUBA"•

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are 14 coples

of on Lill conteining information concering the above-captioned

individual.

who requested the his identity be protected. s)

NY T-2 18 [ry 4838-s.](c)

NY 7-3 10 fix 5364-s.](C)

Two extra coples of the LIll are enclosed for the

Bureau for trenanittal to Legat, Ottawa.

ENCLOSURE

The enclosed LIM hes been classifled

"Secret" in order

protect a source of continuing value and disclosure on

this infometion could prove detrimentel to the best

Intereste of the United States.

6-Bureau (Encle. 14) (RM)

Ottawa

1797-4474) (URN)

1- Ibany

(Encl. 1)

Into) (NK)

-Newark

1- Newark Tones. "2, (tant)

(КИ)

(Bncl.

I-NY 105-44795 (MIRE)

(Into)

(вИ)

91-4414-

NOT RECORDED 1

203 AUG 15 1967

ImMY 105-

OsmEw (312)

0L9

721

(22)

5L AUG 1 6 1967

Kell

391-10328

COTARSE PA

170008-2

ORIGINAL FILDI

DocId: 32340965

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File Na.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

August 8, 1967

ALL INHORKATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS

UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT W

FORE SHOWN

OTHERWY

Pedro Armando Tomas Yanes y Ortega

Also Known As

Pedro Armando Yanes

Internal Security-Cuba

NY I-1, who has furnished reliable information in

advised on June 5, 1967, that a meeting took place

on June 3 4, 1957, in Jersey City, New Jersey, at the Quality

Shoes, Incorporated, 773 Bergen Avenue.

shoe store is

owned

and operated by Ignacio Novo, Secretary General of

(CNM )ga militant

Miami, Florida. (KU)

NY T-1 advised

that present at this meeting,

mentioned above,

in addition

to Ignacio Novo were his

Revolucionaria (MIRR), and Dr. Manuel Antonio De Varona, who

the head

of Rescate Revolucionaria Democratica (RRD), both

anti-castro organizations.cU

NY I-l advised that during this meeting, Dr. Orlando

Bosch spoke about carrying out a two-pronged attack against

cuban Government in canada. Soach Epecialay spoke about X/V)

SEGREE

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

97-4474-

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32340965 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Pedro Armando Tomas Yanes y Ortega

the assassination of the Cuban Ambassador to Canada and a

simultaneous attack on a Cuban ship in the Port of Montreal,

Montreal, Canada. (A (U)

Bosch, according to NY I-1, stated that they would

not use any members of the CNM in carrying out these plans

because they, the CNM, were too "hot

Bosch said that his

nan 'Gutierrez' in Miami had nine rockets, timing devices,

C3 and C4 explosives which could be used in carrying

out

their future plans against the Cuban Government. CaU

Bouch also stated that the Cuban exiles wanted to

show the United States Government, the Federal Bureau of

Investigation (FBI) and the Immigration and Naturalization

Service (INS) that what action had been taken recently

against Felipe Rivero Diaz, National Director of the CNM,

ro Diaz, Nations

could not stop them in their fight against Prime Minister

Fidel Castro. NY I-l also advised that Dr. Bosch told the

Novo brothers at this meeting that upon his return to Miami,

Florida, he would have "Gutierrez send the necessary equipment

to one of his, Bosch's, men in the New York area and that

they would coordinate future plans with the CNM through the

Novo brothers (X(U)

NY T-1 also stated on June 5, 1967, that during

the entire discussion, Dr. Manuel Antonio De

Varona did not

It should be noted that the MIRR is a small action

group of anti-Castro Cuban exiles with headquarters in Miami,

Florida, and they are under the leadership of Orlando Bosch

Avila, a former medical doctor in Cuba.

Since 1961, members

of the MIRR have been involved in numerous and almost

continuous activities of a revolutionary nature including

sombing raids, attempted raids, sabotage, demonstrations

and

propaganda.

NY T-2, who has furnished reliable information in

the past; advised on June o, 1967, that Pedro Yanes, formerly

header!

the MIRR, and represented

Dr. Orlando Bosch in

the New York - New Jersey area. NY I-2

said that it was his

understanding that Pedro Yanes

no longer was the representative

of the organization in the New

York area.

-2-

ENI

DocId: 32340965 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Ho

DATE: 11-14-2017

Pedro Armando Tomas Yanes y Ortega

NY T-3, who has furnished reliable information

the present

NY T-3 stated that he did not have any knowledge of

• individuals presently affiliated with the MIRR in the

New York - New Jersey area.

NY T-3 stated

. that Pedro Yanes was the former

delegate or representative of the MIRR in the New York -

New Jersey area and that hewas recently replaced because of

a basic difference of opinion between himself and Dr.

Orlando ,Bosch.

NY T-3 also advised on June 8, 1957, that at

meetings

sponsored by Cuban exile groups in the New York -

New Jersey area the man who represents the MIRR at these

meetings is Israel Romero.

NY I-3 advised that he was not

certain of Romero's exact address but he was certain that

Romero was a resident of the State of New Jersey.

NY I-I on July 7, 1957, advised that he spoke with

gnac1o Novo on the night of June 6, 1957, at the Hudson

county ail where Novo was being detained

12 3a e tried,

after his arrest

on June 29, 1967, in Jersey City, New Jersey, for the illegal

possession

of explosives.

NY T-l said that Ignacio Novo

at this time instructed his wife, Nora Novo,

to contact

Israel Romero in Union City, New Jersey, and Ignacio Novc

identified Israel Romero to his wife as

being the official

representative of the MIRR and Dr. Orlando Bosch in the New

on July 21, 190% advised that Pedro lanes was still associated

with Dr. Orlando

Bosch and the MIRR.

Gonzalez stated that

Israel Romero currently is the representative of the MIRR in

the New York area but Pedro Yanes continues to be closely

associated with Orlando Bosch of Miami, Florida, and he

pointed out that Pedro Yanes is a member of the

• National

Board of Directors of the MIRR.

Set forth, with a photograph attached, is a physical

description of Pedro Yanes, who is the only known representative

of the MIRR in the New Yoik City area:

-3-

DocId: 32340965 Page 5

---

