# docid-32331055

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/10/201

Agency Information

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90096-10001

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2989-196

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 11/13/1963

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32331055

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the Jobn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997! 46HSC 21ur Note).

PDT57:1172432017

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Casper.-

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad_

FBI

Mr: Doloch Ram

Mr. Evans.

Date:

11/13/63

Mr. Gale_

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan.

Mr.

Tavel

(Type in plain text or code)

Mr. Trotter'--

Tele. Room

Miss

Holmes_

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Miss Gandy..

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, WFO (92-105) (P)

CHARLES TOURINE, aka

(00 :MM)

9°

On 11/13/63, WF 1218-C advised SA ROBERT I.

SHACKELFORD that her girl friend FONDA DELVECCHIO had recently

returned from Florida in the company of a white female prostitute

known as PAT CLARK.

the evening of 11/12/63 and while obviously under the influence

oI excessive alcohol, related that while she was in Florida

she had been with CHARLES TOURINE,

, known to FONDA as CHARLIE

WHITE,

and while in his company TOURINE had related that he

had met with a number of his hoodlum associates regarding the

detrimental affects the activities of the Attorney General were

having among the gambling element.

According to FONDA, TOURINE indicated that this group

had decided to attempt to approach officials close to ROBERT

KENNEDY in an attempt to get him to slow down his anti-hoodlum

campaign.

FONDA further related to the informant that TOURINE

had indicated the hoodlums were generally upset over KENNEDY'S

anti-hoodlum drive and the purpose of the meeting was to attempt

3-Bureau

2-Miami

• - 137-1450)

RLS :nln

(9)

EX-114

Millen

.. :1,7

REC 311

92-2989-196

25 NOV 20 1963

N'2 0E61 De 9N24ICE

AIRTEL

C..C. Wick

•1N9 40019 11 22 1H,83

Approved:

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32331055 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F kennedy Assassination Records

-collection 4ot of 1992 711

-DATE. 011-14-2017

i Note) .

WFO 92-105

to come to some type of an agreement as to the best course

of action to take to attempt to get this anti-crime drive

of the Attorney General's slowed down.

TOURINE also

indicated that it appeared the only logical approach open

was to attempt to get to KENNEDY through an intermediary

indicating the above means would be used.

The informant stated that she had received a post

card from FONDA from Miami Beach, Florida, however, FONDA

would not state exactlv where she was in Florida with

FONDA related to the informant that TOURINE appeared

to be generally concerned that law enforcement officials would

become aware of his activities and stayed in

only going out from the hotel to "this place,a hotel constantly,

and returning

directly to the hotel. FONDA did not elaborate on

"this

place.

FONDA 1s believed to have driven to Florida in a

1963 red Pontiac convertible bearing District of Columbia

tags and PAT CLARK is known to own a late model Ford

convertible bearing either District of Columbia or Maryland

tags.

It is not known which car DELVECCHIO and CLARK used

in Florida or if possibly both cars were taken

there. L

PAT CLARK and FONDA DELVECCHIO are known to WFO

to have actively engaged in prostitution in the past and

to be well known to the hoodlum and gambling element in

Washington, D. C. DELVECCHIO was alleged to be keeping

company with GEORGE ROHANNA, CHARLES TOURINE and JOSEPH

NESLINE in the recent past in Washington, D. C. DELVECCHIO

is believed to be a respected confident of the above persons

and appears to be fully aware of most of the details of their

gambling activities. U

DELVECCHIO and CLARK have in the past been inter-

viewed by WFO and have been generally belligerent and un-

cooperative; DELVECCHIO particularly, exhibiting a hate

for all

cops."

Both DELVECCHIO and CLARK are described

as white

females,

about 25 years

old, 5 feet 3 inches

tall, 115 pounds,

and very

• well built.

-

2

-

DocId: 32331055 Page 3

---

## Page 4

nder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot oị 1992 (41 USC 2107 Ngte) .

-DATE : (11-14-2017

WFO 92-105

The above information is furnished for the

information of the Miami Office and the Bureau and Miami

should, under no conditions undertake the interview of

DELVECCHIO or CLARK regarding the above information as

it is believed that it would disclose the informant as

the source of this information.

=3 -

DocId: 32331055

Page 4

---

