# docid-32295888

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10216-10164

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2713-67

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45855 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: KENNEDY, REGIS L.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/30/1960

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS:

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/07/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45855

2

DocId: 32295888

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NO 92-36

AT SHREVEPORI, LOUISIANA

(1) Will Identify JEAN KUSIC (phonetic),

Kickapoo Motel, Bossier City..

(2) Will maintain contact with PCI PAULINE

MORSE®

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA

(1) Will identify EMMETT NOBLE, 216 Maple

Street.

(2) Will identify MICHAEL GORDON, 4209 Vincennes

Place, New Orleans, and determine his

possible connection

with MARCELLO.

(3) W1l1 maintain contact with Immigration and

Naturalization Service and U. S. Intelligence Division,

Treasury Department.

(4) Will recontact CARL IRVING NOLL after his

trial June 30, 1960.

INFORMANTS

The following information was furnished by

Washington Field Office by letter dated May 16, 1960:

The records of the Washington Hotel, 15th and

Pennsylvania Avenue, N. We, Washington, Do C.,

checked on March 30, 1960, April 7-18, 1960, and May 6,

1960, for information concerning CARLOS MARCELLO with

negative results.

Miss ANNA YUTER, Paymaster, Washing-

ton Hotel, advised that she had searched the hotel records

under the

name MARCELLO, CARLOS, and also had searched

the hotel records under various

possible spellings of

these two names with negative results.

COVER PAGE

B

45855 DooId: 32295888 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-36

The following investigation was conducted by

SA CHARLES R.. CARSON:

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA

Miss EDITH KERNAN, Southern Bell Telephone

and Telegraph Company, provided the following Information:

FO 1-0222 Issued to Jefferson Parish Court House.

FO 6-3466 Issued to Jefferson Music Company,

1401 Monroe Street, Gretna, Louisiana.

FO 6-5333 issued to Gulf Refining Company,

Gretna, Louisiana®

Mr. BERT EIGHER was contacted on May 26, 1960,

and furnished the following information:

VE 4-4622 1s issued to Mrs. LOUISE MARCELLO,

577 Woodvine, Metairie, Louisiana.

VE 3-9408 prior to May 8, 1960, was issued to

EMMETT NOBILE, 216 Maple Street.

There is no such prefit as LU. The only one

similar is HU 6-61ll and that number 1s

not presently in

use.

MICHEL A. MAROUN of Shreveport, Louisiana, is

known to be an attorney for CARLOS MARCELLO at Shreveport,

Louisiana.

On May 31, 1960, NO 933C advised SA ROBERT C.

SCHWIEGER that a few months ago DUTCH O'NEAL took over

Plymouth Plantation, Inc., which company formerly was an

automobile dealership owned and operated by Chrysler

Corporation.

Talk around the agency where informant

COVER PAGE

E

HIH

45855 DooId: 32295888 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NO 92-36

previously was employed, was that CARLOS MARCELLO had

put up the money.

Informant stated the business still

1s a den of thieves.

MARCELLO was in for several hours

at a time at least twice

a week. Informant stated he

understood that MARCELLO's name in not connected with

the business in any way, however.

On June 9, 1960, MT. PETER BERNARD, attorney

the transaction involving thesale of Plantation Plymouth,

Inc., to DUTCH O'NEAL and the money was supplied by the

Commercial Credit Company of New Orleans with the excep-

tion of $10,000.00 which was paid by DUTCH O'NEAL from

his personal account.

He advised that DUTCH O'NEAL IS

well able to draw a check for $10,000:00 and at no time

was there any indication that CARLOS MARCELLO was supply-

ing funds for the purchase of this automobile agency,

which was owned by the Chrysler Corporation.

The following investigation was conducted by

SA JOHN T. ROUSSEAU:

On June 3, 1960, PCI. TOM ISBELL was contacted

at his place of business, at which time he advised he has

recently heard through an undisclosed source that CARLOS

MARCELLO recently attempted to buy the Cardinal Inn Motel

in opelousas,

Louisiana, for the purpose of converting

it into a Holiday Inn Motel. He stated that insolat

as he knows, the deal did not go through.

He

also advised

that insofar as he is aware, this is the first effort by

MARCELLO to get started in St. Landry Parish.

on May 10, 1960, PCI TOM ISBELL advised he had

recently heard through the "grapevine" that CARLOS MARCELLO

in Vermillion Parish after the inauguration of Governor

JIMMIE DAVIS..

He stated RUSSO is the go between MARCELLO

and Sheriff O. V. MOSS. He did not know how extensive the

operations would

be...

PCI further advised he had learned through

the same source that Sheriff MALCOLM FISHER of Lafayette

had obtained $5000.00 from MARCELLO for use in his cam-

paign för Sheriff. He stated that

since FISCHER's defeat

COVER PAGE

F

NW 45855 DooId: 32295888 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NO 92-36

for Sheriff, FISCHER has obtained additional money from

MARCELLO which he paid to state Representative RICHARD

BERTRAND for political assistance in obtaining appoint-

ment as chief of police In Lafayette under the newly elected

MARCELLO will then be able to operate gambling

concessions in the city of Lafayette, although not through-

out the parish.

PCI stated he personally supported Governor

DAVIS in the recent election campaign and herecently asked

DAVIS exactly what his plans were for gambling in Louis1-

ana, He stated that DAVIS told him he intended to leave

It entirely up to the individual parishes and sheriffs.

It was noted that this PCI has been doing extensive re-

modeling and redecorating at his place, the Tampico Club,

which is the biggest in St. Landry Parish.

The following investigation was conducted by

SA DAVID P. HURLEY:

AT SHREVEPORT, LOUISIANA

On May 20, 1960, PCI PAULINE MORSE advised

CARLOS MARCELLO waS

in the company. of MERLE KEMMERLY

at Sak's Lounge on the night of May i9, 1960, or the.

early morning hours of May 20, 1960.

On the evening

CARLOS MARCELLO and MICHEL A. MAROUN

were together. at sak's Lounge, Highway 80 East, Bossier

city, during the early evening and later during the

evening they were seen together at the Shreve Landing

Club, Shreveport, Louisiana. MARCELLO was also with

MAROUN at Sak's

Lounge on Saturday night. May 21, 1960.

MORSE also learned that one JEAN KUSIC (PH),

who lives at the Kickapoo Motel in Bossier City, claimed

she had a date with MARCELLO for the night of May 20,

1960.

AT- BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA

The following investigation was conducted

by SA SIMS F. REGARD:

COVER PAGE

NW 45855 DocId: 32295888

Page 5

---

