# docid-32343404

## Page 1

Date: 11/29/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION PORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10052-10054

RECORD SERIBS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : CHIEF OF STATION, MEXICO CITY

TO: C/wH DIVISION

TITLE: PROJECT REVIEN

DATE: 10/25/1963

1992

Case#: NW 53199

ate: 06-06-2017

SUBJBCTS : MEXICO

JFK ASSASSINATION

LIEMPTY

USSR OPS

PROJECT REVIEW

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIPICATION :

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELBASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/11/04

COMMENTS: JFK6: F5: 20031203-1019597

10.. ...-------

(R) - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10052-10054

HH 53199

DocId: 32343404

Page 1

---

## Page 2

:

ISPATCH

chict, Will Division

CLASSITICATION

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

DALT QUALITIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXIKO

MICROFILM

Chief of Station, Mexico City

LIDITY Project Renewal

jASO. REFERENCES

Action: Renewal of Project

Fortarded herewith and under separats cover is the Station's revie:

of Project LIS-PlY for purposes of renewing the project for the period 1

Deceiver 1963 through 30 November 1964. The amount requested to fund the

project for this period 18 $us 49,700, or approcimately tie same as vas

approvel for the past project year.

RECORDS OFFICER SIAP

authorined:

timer

R.0. 8030 - lalt

WH/L/2

Note:

Is dectraction, clio

Aütachment:

¡casons and coordinata

As stated aoff appropriate.

Herewith and Under Separate Cover

Matriintion

- CHD w/att h/& u/s/

...

63 23/

OISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

1794-22537

CLISSIFICATION

192500.2479

50-6-7411

DATE

ai Gatober 190;

MOS FILE NUMBER

56-5-14/1

2816

HW 53199

DocId: 32343404

Page 2

---

## Page 3

.: 10

SECRET

LIEMPTY

PROJDCT

50-6-74/1

VLONE CT

B 1331

466.N1 3i)RT1I 18044-22389.

HH 53199

DocId: 32343404

Page 3

SEORS.

Mexico City

SPATION

Melard ( Gosta

Willari C. CURIIS, Chtel oi Stetion

50-6-77/1

SEONST,a

-..--.--

aicdti faerid.

ci: la-t23;?

---

## Page 4

I. CURLIE OBIDCIIVES AND PRODUCIION RELATED TILSRECO

A. Oliver G. SCANILING Segment (In relation to project objectives.)

"To collect operational infornatio: pertaining to LIVERICK persornel

and physical facilities."

SCANTLING has continued to provide vortawntle in-

oration in support of this

•objective. ¡iee previous projoct review forarded

by H•M1A-20052 or 18 October 1962. Duri'g the past year SCANILING was used to

follow up leads produced by both LIFEAT and LIaivoy in support of this objective.

In particular SCANTLING provided, in biueprint detail, casing reports on the

nones of two soviet intelligence officers who are targets for Station technical

overations.

SCANTLING also 1s used to aid the Station in maintaining current records

of the residences of Soviet persemel living in Mexico. This is accomplished by

SCANTLING's followup of LICNVOY leads which Indicate Soviet interest in renting

specific properties.

2.

"To collect of?

Information pertainins to other targets of op-

portunity, jars dis

ou: and personnel of intelligence Interest

operating In vexico."

SCAN. LING has proved successful in providing infornatio.

on other Station tergets:

8.

SCANTLING ortained information on ASMIQUELET-2, a suspect Soviet

support arint rhich was tha basis of further Station operations

against tils targat.

scavit's provided a casing of the forner an use:

Office against which the station had planned a technical oparation.

However, this site tas evacuaied by the target mission beêc-e

plan; vere conpleted for this attempt.

c.

SCANTLING has conducted detailed investigationa in various ceses

involving possible ajents or contacts of hostile inteligence ser-

These cases vere of prime conceit. to Station Maxico but

"requently were undertaken at the request of Headquarters os other

Stations.

3. "To provide support to other Station operations as may be

requested by

the Siat1o1 offlcars.concarned."

In the past scarunk's activities. in this arca

"are corcamel actrecily tita revinutements, dabriories and surrolllanges. Du'ing

the reso tire parloi, horever, thie valuai of sCitlind's supper to obkarstatici

ast Sive a per to the nren of activity inclus

itt.

HH 53199

DocId: 32343404

Page 4

---

## Page 5

2-

3.

Support of the sensitive ANHOD operation, in which Paymond H.

GoralDE also played a vital role, was of singular importance to

the success of the operation. SCANTLING's many fields of op-

erational experience vere drawn on fully and he thereby provided

a unique contribution to the operation. Without the assistance

ot scaviLIo and GERbiDE inth their unique qualifications, this

operation would have been difficult in the extreme is indeed at

all possible.

i.

In enorto the Station's lintui sempaign against peasant

launched at the request of Headquerters,

SCANTLING again provided the means for carrying out a large portion

i tine nation taken.

i"..iil, initi to the target to the i

distines:

1A. SCANTLING also made calle to marous fau."

Fait

and mailed Me

wn.iu and & Soviet in-

telligence officer toj

diacredit and discourage

•newspagers in the camain to

in the wwr..t

campaign.

SCANTLING is used as the alternate contactin a sensitive LAURICLE

This 1s for the purpose of ninimizing the danger of the

action agent in this projest osing recognizei as beirz in contret

MIth an obvious PBIRMME citizen.

SCANTLING's contribution to this

oparation has been noteworthy both from the stanapoint of security

and agent handling.

d.

SCANTLING continued to conduct numerous pretext and neigivorose

Invastigations. As in the past many of these Investigations vere

in relation to highly sensitive cases.

Although SCANTLING's LIMPTY project objoctives can not be cozaleici;

fulfillod, 1t 13 the Stetion's opinion üint SCANTLING continuea to noke valuable

emiribution to the objectives of the project and to other Station astivitia:.

MCLING's production,

neasured against monetary openditure,

anl otiar intangibles fectors,

unquastionably justities his continuing as an

1n0j1al part of Project LIDiPTY.

B. izironi H. GERMDE Segment (in relation to project objectives) :

"To colluct onerational information pertaining to LIbeRIch parsoree?

ri: jasical facilities throus use of piotegraphic besehouses," Tree Bario-. -

reple bace, LITTED, LILYRIC and LICALLA, contribute to these dujectivus.

Althoin SCAVITIliG now sets as cutout ith the LIlITED base, GRaDE continues

to ba reaponsislo for the processing of all photo teje iron the LumPti operation

incluilng take from LINITED. To avoid repetition, the Station 1s oltzing the

ioneription of the functions of these tinree bases and how ticy contrioute to tina

abovo ubjective. Inis las fully deserived ir. the 1950 Requeut Eor Project Reuare:

(16CH-15979).

SEGRET/

NW 53199

DocId:32343404 Page 5

---

## Page 6

5-

2.

"To collect operational infortation and identify operational leais

pertaining to station targots of opportunity."

Tile LIBIIRAP oparation,

nanziad by GoRaNDE, 15 still the major contributor to this objective.

Meter oporational amphasta continues to remain in the area of photo stalicout

of roninent Mexican Communist and is presently working fulltime on providins

has also recently begun to be used on ZRKNICK leads.

It is expected that

activities of fInTRAP in that latter area will expand in the coming year.

3. "To provide operational support to Station operations includinz the

renting of hotel rooms and safe apartments, renting and servicing offpost office

boxes, and conducting counter-surveillences." GERIDE's contribution to the

AMROD operation was noted in paragraph I.A.3.a. above.

GoREDE's comprehensive.

area knowledge and personal operational capabilities enable him to raxe a

valuable contribution in such operations as AMROD and also enable him to procure

the most desireable safe sites in support of the Stetion's operetions. The

project's assets, perticularly GERANDS and LID.PTY-10, presently provide 20

post office box mail drops for use of Mexico City Station and other Stations.

Although it is planned to reduce this rumber considerably during the nost year,

(since other Station assets now can provide a number of live accomrudation

addresses), a number of post office boxas v1ll be retained for use in juture

operations.

4. The quality and quantity of opprational information produced by the

photogrephis bases and other activities under GERIDE's control and suparvision

is considered by the Station worthwhile and in some casas unique.

It is con-

cluded, therefore, that this segnent of the LIBITY Project shold be continued.

C. Relationshid to the Related Mission Pirective

As noted in the examples siven abore, Project LIMPlY nas providei valuable

support to many Station operations and hereby has been & contributing l'actor to

the fulfillment of the Related Mission objectives of the Station. The project

has not produced any positive intelligence nor is 1t intended to do so.

project's sola purpose is to provide a nechenton fur the development of upara-

tional inforation.

II. CHANGES

since SCATLING 1s closer in age to him than 1s garade.

LOUISO J. MACRINO (ps) suffered a rucurrence of the heart conlition which

nearly caused her death approximately eight years ago.

Conplete rest jus been

HW 53199

DocId: 32343404

Page 6

---

## Page 7

StoneT

4-

ordered by hor doctors and an operation mey be necessary in early 1964.

It 1s therefore unlikely that she will be able to work during the comins

• Station does not plan to request cancellation of her oparational

clearance at this time, but has not included salary payments to her in the

estinated costs of the project for the coning year.

The unusual salary increase reflected for LIRIPIY-19 in the "Project Costs"

(below) sactionfor the coming year 1s due to this agent's new duties of LIFEAI

processing in addition to her old duties as translator. Agent's OA vas emended

for this use on 2 January 1963.

III. EFFELTIVENESS

The coments mede concerning the project's effectiveness in the Project

Renowal of 1960 (HSIA 15979) remain valid. Indeed the Station's need for the

type of services provided by the assets of this project are at least as great

today as they were when those couments wore originally forarded.

IV: PROBLEMS

There are presently no norm major, problems facing the operation which sould

affect either the security or the effectiveness of this operation. The security

problen facing the LICALLA portion of the operation and described in FaJA-15979

and subsequent renewal requests has been resolved by the Cuban Government's release

of three KURIOT personnel earlier this year. As was noted previously, one of

Both SCANtLING and GErads took the ICFLUTTER during! tee month of Ostober

1963. No security problems were revealed by this test.

V. PLANS

Ine Station considers that the project 1s operating at its optimum size and

does not plan to expend it during the coming year. Efforts vill be continues to

refine and better utilize the existing aroject orgenization and to Improve tre

compartmentation and security of the project.

VI. COSTS

A. Past Project Year - Station records show that Project LIDPlY espended approx

- 30 June 1953) and ha:

to date in ry 195l (throush 30 Septemoer 1963) exgended sus 7,620.

soproxinetely

or abous fus te, oco or

B.

let Projast, Yoar - Of the toial sus 49,700 budget, luenizet below, approsi-

navely dUs 30,230 inill ja expended in Il 1964 and tha retainder jUs 19,410 1r

FY 1DÚS.

SIGNET /3

NW 53199

DocId: 32343404

Page 7

---

## Page 8

(

5-

CENT SALARIES

Including X'mas bonuses

Raymond I1. GERENDE

O11ver G. SCANTLING

ouise J. MACRIN

at sus 2.02 per hour

JUTEMPTY-4

LIPTY-S

(at US 1.75 per hour),

LIEMPTY-6

LIBMPTY-T

LIDAPTY-E

LIDMPTY-9

IIEMPTY-10

LIDMPTY-11

LIENPTY-12

LIAMPTY-23

LIEXPTY-14

LIAPTY-19

LIBPTY-24

sus ver year FY 1954

6,000

5,500

no salary

3,400

3, 000

3,700

no selary

2,400

3,600

4,100

2,500

2,000 .

2,000

2,000

2,000

no salari

sus 39,500

fUs 2'+,540

SUB TOTAL

OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

Transportriion::

Maintorance of MV-2279, A 2234,

iN 2236

2,000

arm.....

NN 53199 DocId:32343401 Page 8

EX 1955

#US 25,160

---

## Page 9

::.

'.

6-

Operational Esonnes

Roal Eutato

Rent, utilities and maintenance

of basehouses -

LIMITED*

LICALLA*

LILYRIC

Procurenent of safehouses, post

office boxes, and rental of

automobiles

Purchase of Information, documents

and bilbes

SUB TOTAL

Repair, maintenance and purchase of

replacement photographic equipment

and purchase of 11lm

SUB TOTAL

JUS Per Year IX 196%

FY 1905

3,300

1,700

1,200

500

500

9,200

5,300

5,010

2,000.

1,000

560

• 440

GRAND TOTAL

tus 49,700

sus 30,290

jas 19,410

VII. BERGENCY COFDITIONS

Emergency recontact arrangements for Oliver G. SCATLING and Reynond H.

GERaNDE nre on file in Headquarters (ses HMA 15932 of 25 liovenuer 1950 and

HIMA 15981 of 23 November 1960) For further infornation see project reneral

request, of 1960 forterded by HAiA 15979.

vIII.

TRAINING

No training, other than that within the compotency of SCAlLIC or, GERBiDE

to give, is anticipated for the coring groject year.

KOTE: LIMITFD and LICALLA rants are ratured to

Station by LIOUSNT and cradited

to LAISA expenso.

50-6-7411

50-6-77/1

ES 8321

•-ii

ALL IL PART I EMMAR MMAI A-22387

NW 53199

DocId: 32343404

Page 9

---

