# docid-32327931

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90066-10172

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3960-47

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: NY

TITLE :

DATE: 02/19/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32327931

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

2-19-63

Airted

To:

SAC, New York (92-674)

From:

Director, Fsk

(92-3960)

SALVATORE CRANELLO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Be report of SA Eugene J. Hindes dated at New Yorks

12/28/62.

Page 44 of rerep contains information furnished by

NY 204-C (NY T"3) to the effect that a bookmaking operation

supposedly controlled by the subject is being handled by one

Buddy (INU) and by one Louis Necca who reportedly handled bets

through a telephone answering service.

The Criminal Division of the Department has expressed

a particular interest in this matter in view of

the fact that

the Internal Revenue Service has developed similar information but

from a different source.

The Internal Revenue Service source

is stated

to be an individual who has been a manufacturernand

installer of "cheeseboxes" and similar devices as well as having

been a wiretapper:

In view of the Department's interest, you should

contact the informant and conduct additional logical investigation

to develop as fully as possible information concerning this

operation.

Subnit the information developed in a letterhead

memorandun suitable for dissemination to reach the Bureau no

later than 3/8/63.

MAILED 25

FEB 1 91963

COMM-FBI

CLG: sma Sona

(4)

REG. 69

97-3960-47

89 FEB 20 1963

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32327931

Page 2

---

