# docid-32304425

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10286-10055

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-75147-13-73

Document Information

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DN

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/11/1954

3

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

EHB, VEP, ASSOC, TRA, B/F INT, GAMBLING ACT, REL,

IDENT, FRAUD, CONSPR, SWINDLE, WHEREABOUTS,

SURVEY

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

05/18/1998'

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

INC RPT

V9.1

HH 53025

DocId: 32304425

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ARTHUR LEWIS/CLARK, wa.

10°

FBI H3709258

—_—

CLARK, previously described in GIIF reports as

a professional gambler and confidence man, was last reported

in the Denver area by DN 123-0 during the

latter part of

August, 1953.

On that occasion DN 123-C accompanied CLARK,

ERNIE B. WOODARD and VICTOR EMANUEL PEREIRA to Chicago,

Illinois, to attend a convention of vending machine dealers.

Informant reported that PEREIRA and CLARK made this trip to

Chicago principally for the purpose of attending the conven-

tion,

where they expected to make a lot of money in crooked

gambling operations.

Information furnished by DN 123-0, DN 115-0 and

in reports from

the Los Angeles Office reflects that during

the period of this survey, CLARK has been closely associating

with VICTOR EMANUEL PEREIRA and EUGENE H. BRADING in Beverly

Hills, California, where PEREIRA and his wealthy wife have

rented a residence.

These sources have reported that CLARK has been

representing himself as a business associate of PEREIRA

and

BRADING in the operation of a vending machine business in

Beverly Hills.

that they had no information reflecting that CLARK has been

in the bon a 430n

In January, 1954, DN 119-0 and DN 123-0 reported

operating in the Denver area since August, 1953, although he

still occasionally makes

in contact with

• SAM GARFIELD and IRVING PASTERNAK who are

associated with the Crude Oil Producing Corporation,, 1640

California Street in Denver.

FBI #2157349

EUGENE HE BRADING, waS.

BE ARE IN 4302 [9xа2) 920400

PEREIRA and BRADING have been identified in previous

GIIF reports as confidence men who specialize in defrauding

wealthy women of large sums of money.

In January, 1952,

in the U. s. District Court, El Paso, Texas, BRADING and

PEREIRA received sentences of 12 years each on charges of

ITSP, mail fraud

and conspiracy in connection with the swindle

of Mrs. GERTRUDE J. JOYCE Of Roswell, New Mexico, of

31

74 53025 DocId: 32304425

Page 2

---

## Page 3

approximately $48,000.00. These sentences have been

upheld by the Fifth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

This decision has been appealed to the U. S. Supreme

Court and the matter was

argued before that

court during

the period of this survey.

However, no decision has yet

been published by the U. S. Supreme Court.

Both BRADING

and PEREIRA are at liberty on bond pending disposition of

their appeal.

As previously reported, PEREIRA is now married to

the former Mrs. LEE LITTLE of Dallas,

Texas, reported to

be worth several million dollars.

During the period of this survey, DN 115-0,

DN 123-8 and DN 119-0 have reported that PEREIRA and his.

wife, and EUGENE BRADING have been living on Mrs. PEREIRA'S

money in Beverly Hills, California, where PEREIRA and BRADING

themselves as operators of a vending

machine business..

DN 115-c and DN 123-c, who have previously reported

that PEREIRA and BRADING in the past have spent much of

their time in the Denver area, have stated that neither

• PEREIRA nor BRADING has been in Denver since August, 1953.

The Bureau has instructed the Denver Division and

other interested offices to maintain regular contact with

informants for the purpose of being advised at all times' as

whereabouts of PEREIRA and BRADING, in view of

persistent reports from various sources reflecting that

PEREIRA and BRADING might seek to flee the United States in

the event the U. S. Supreme Court upholds their twelve-year

sentences.

Denver_Police

#2367 C0/0.

• GALANTIERE

continues to operate Jerry's News Stand,

1657 Welton Street in Denver.

During the period of this

survey his automobile was searched by officers of the Morals

Bureau, Denver Police Department, who confiscated a large

quantity of obscene books and photographs which they located

in the trunk of the car.

This material has been turned over

to Agents of the Denver Office and a new ITOM case has been

opened on GALANTIERE.

32

NW 53025 DooId: 32304425 Page 3

---

