# docid-32299894

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act or 1992 (4T USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10226-10174

HQ

92-6054-2362

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 07/05/1968

• PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, GENOVESE FAMILY MEMBERS, PALMER, TOM, LEFTY,

JOE, OPERATING CARD GAME, NINE ARRESTED

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32299894

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

DATE: 11-14-2017

VIA TELETYPE

JUL 5 1968

ENCIPHERED

1552 744 03C 210.

•rote).

Mr. Tolson

Mr. DeLoach'.

Mr. Mohr---

Mr. Bishop

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. Pele L

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele, Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy.

WA

-5:08 PM URGENT 7-5-68 AWS

TO DIRECTOR 92-6054 (PLAIN)

FROM NEW YORK 92-2300

Bits

LON - CONSPIRACY. AR.

LA: COSA NOSTRA

safer

%

NY FIVE ZERO FOUR TWO DASH C DASH TE ADVISED

ON JUNE TWENTY-SIX, NINETEEN SIXTYEIGHT THAT TOM

PALMER (NY NINETY TWO DASH ONE TWO SEVEN ZERO), AND JOE

LEFTY, WHOM INFORMANT HAD PREVIOUSLY IDENTIFIED AS AN LON

MEMBER OF THE GENOVESE "FAMILY", HAD OPENED A CARD GAME

AT NINETY-FIVE SECOND AVENUE, NYC. INFORMANT FURTHER

ADVISED THAT THE INDIVIDUALS WHO WILL MANAGE THE GAME

FOR THE ABOVE LON MEMBERS ARE PHIL GENOVESD AND

SALVATORE TARTAGLIA, AKA "SAMMY IHE WOP."

INFORMANT ADVISED HE KNEW, OF NO INTERSTATES 42-6054-2362

ASPECT TO THE GAME.

END PAGE ONE

22 JUL J 8 1968

,EX-105

22 1968

DocId: 32299894 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE AQO -14Q017

* ON THE SAME DAi

THIS INFORMATION WAS FUR

SHED

TO INSPECTOR ED DONNELLY, NYCPD. ON JULY IHREE,

NINETEEN SIXTYEIGHT, INSPECTOR DONNELLY ADVISED THAI

BASED ON THE ABOVE INFORMATION NINE PERSONS WERE ARRESTED

FOR GAMBLING AT THE ABOVE LOCATION ON JUNE TWENTYEIGHT,.

NINETEEN SIXTYEIGHT. HE CONTINUED, THE GAME WAS DOING

APPROXIMATELY TWENTY-FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS A WEEK

BUSINESS. INSPECTOR DONNELLY ADVISED HE WOULD MAKE THE

BYO A COMPLETE LIST OF THE NAMES AND ADDRESSES F

INDIVIDUALS ARRESTED.

IT IS BEING POINTED OUT THAT NY FIVE ZERO FOUR

TWO DASH C DASH TE ADVISED ON JULY SECOND, NINETEEN

SIXTYEIGHT THAT PHIL GENOVESE WAS ARRESTED AT THE ABOVE

GAME UNDER THE NAME OF EITHER GOLDBERG OR ROSENBERG.

END

WA.....

TEL IS NMBER 13

WA.. •EFH

FBI WASH DO

DocId: 32299894

Page 3

---

