# docid-32323873

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/31/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90021-10071

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-5704-62

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection det

Of

1992 144 USC

107 Notel.

Case#: NW 45743

ate: 11-16-2017

• Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

03/25/1974

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

JOE CAMPISI

JOSEPH CAMPISI

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a); 10(a)1 jio (a) 2

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

11/19/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

tH 45743

DocId: 32323873

Page 1

27

---

## Page 2

FB-263 (RCv. 1-7-72)

• FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVE TIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

DALLAS

JOSEPH CAMPISI, aka

3/25/74

REPORT MADE BY

JOHN J. LANDERS

CHARACTER OF CASE

2/15 - 3/22/74

TYPED BY

i dap

AR

REFERENCES:

New Orleans letter to Dallas dated 3/7/74.

Report of SA JOHN J. LANDERS dated 1/31/74 at Dallas.

- С* -

LEAD

DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEXAS.

Will, six months from date of this

report, reactivate and submit report of any information developed.

' ADMINISTRATIVE

CONVIC.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

IDENTITIES OF INFORMANTS

"DL T-I is DI 135-C-TE contacted by SA JOHN J. LANDERS.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FUG.

[X NONE

FINES

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT-

TALS

SPECIAL

AGENT

IN CHARGE

- Bureau (92-5704)

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR XIYES ENO

PENDING ROME THE

EYES LEINO

DO NOT WRITE IN-SPACES BELOW

12751041

62

-REC-14

1 - USA, Fort Worth

DinitiOn

2 - Dallas (92-339) 26ECIVE MASSilENsAt

КЕСЕЛЕВ

• APR I 1974

X.114

Agency

Request Recd.

Dissemination Record of Arrached Repo 3 30 P

ЦА

Notations

AAG, criminal

Division,

& Racketeering

Section

1816

415/01

DATA PROC

ente it in

COVER PAGE

HH 45743

DocId:32323873 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 92-339

DL T-5 is NO 2242-PC:

Considerable investigation has been conducted

concerning the subject and his activities.

This investi-

gation consisted mainly

of obtaining long distance tele-

phone tolls for subject's home and business phones.

The

investigation disclosed that the majority of the telephone

calls were to the New Orleans, Louisiana, area, and many

were made to the Elmwood Plantation Restaurant

which is

operated by VINCENT MARCELLO, whose brother is CARLOS MAR-

CELLO, IN figure in the New Orleans area.

During Title III coverage in the Dallas case

captioned.

JFK Law 10(a)1

The subject was interviewed

on 2/2/72 concerning this

and

admitted knowing CHAPMAN and

having placed bets with him regularly during the football

season.

He stated that these were his own personal bets.

Investigation failed to disclose that the subject was

operating as a bookmaker.

The

was subpoenaed

before the Federal Grand Jury and retused to testify.

During this interview, the subject was questioned con-

cerning his ties in the New Orleans area and

admitted

his friendship with VINCENT MARCELLO and numerous trips

he made there to see MARCELLO, Claiming these were pleasure

trips.

The

has been monitored in a current

Title Ill case captioned.

JFK Law. 10(a) 2

The L

will be subpoenaed to testi-

fy before a Federal Grand Jury in this case.

Information from sources and members of the

Dallas Police Department Metro Squad indicates subject's

main activity is

betting on sporting events and that he

is not operating as

a bookmaker.

COVER PAGE

B

11.

92-570412

dongi jai

HH 45743

DocId: 32323873

Page 3

---

