# docid-32307303

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Forn

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10292-10006

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-22

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MELLOTT, FRANK L.

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/07/1958

'PAGES:

23

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

SGI, COLUCCI, PHILLIP, MED/PERS HIST, SUR, RES,

WHEREABOUTS, SUBPOENA, REL, BKG, EMP, BUSS, TRA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/08/1998

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32307303. Page 1

425

---

## Page 2

eport Fon

D-263 (r-12-5

Reporting Office

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

6/16,20,25,26;7/2,7.9

Offico of Origin

CHICAGO

•11

Date

8/7/58

Report made by

FRANK L. MELLOTT

CHARACTER OF CASE

lavestigativo Parlod 14-13, 23,25,29

31;8/1,4,5/58

Typed B

"CHANGED"

SAMUEL

GIANCANA, waS.

Russell Paige, Anthony De Bendc

ANTI - RACKETEERING

Synopeis:

MARY and PHILLIP COLUCCI, River Forest, Illinoig admit

associating with subject's late wife and eldest daughter

but deny associating with subject; both deny knowledge

that car owned by subject's oldest daughter was

registered to their address until car involved in

accident.

COLUCCI claims not related to COLUCCI brothers

who operate handbooks and exercise political influence

on Chicago's west side.

Subject reportedly seen in

company of FRANK SINATRA in Las Vegas. Examination

of legal records gives no indication subject has

financial interest in Villa Venice, large restaurant

and lounge northwest of Chicago.

Subject, using name

"RUSSELL PAIGE", operated on in May, 1958, for rectal

disorder and in April, 1956, for colon disorder, but

no indication of malignancy.

Subject referred to

surgeon by!r. CAiL CHAMPAGNE, brother of ANTHONY V.

CHAMPAGNE, notorious hoodlum attorney.

Efforts by

Leputy inited States Marshals during May-July, 1958,

to locate subject to serve subpoena for subject's

appearance before McClellan Committee unsuccessful

to date:

Car driven by subject registered to ANTHONY A

DE BENDS, Berwyn, Illinois, but efforts

to establish

Approved

Copies made:

Preatence of thia reasserato

ARMED AND LANGERO

In Charge - P -

Do not write in spaces below

2-Bureau

92-3171-22

3-Chicago (92-349)

MCT - 20

REG 36

8 AUG 1:: 1958

COPIES DESTROYED

925 MAY 24 19721

tx -124

ADO 21

44/20/84

STAT. SECT.

SPSAJA/BuY

serty of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be

distributed outside the agency to

which loane

# U. 8. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1988 O- 844750

NW 45792 DocId: 32307303 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG: 92-349

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following criminal informants are currently

in a position

to furnish information relative to the subject:

CG 6132-C

CG 5951-C

CG 6215-C

PCI

PCI

PCI

PCI

IRENE: TOEROSS

PCI

The above criminal informants andkpotential criminal

informants are being contacted on a regular basis with the

objective of securing information of value relative to the

Top Hoodlum Program. Attention is being directed to

securing additional

informant coverage through the above

informants as well as through file reviews to ascertain

whether informants furnishing information in the past will

be of assistance under this program to furnish accurate

information concerning GIANCANA's movements, associates,

and activities.

In addition, background and current

data regarding those persons

contacting the subject

is being obtained, with a view of interviewing them for

the purpose of developing them as PCIs.

INFORMANTS

4

T-s is

principal owner, El Rancho

Vegas Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada,

a PCI of the Salt Lake City

Office, who was contacted by SA BRYON C. WHEELER on June 30, 1958.

T-2 is LEO FEARY, former Special Agent, FBI, now

in charge of security at Marshall Field & Company, Chicago,

who furnished information regarding the subject to SA HAROLD

D. SELL on July 14, 1958.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

OTHER 4

- 20 -

Sd515908

NW 45792 DocId: 32307303 Page 3

---

