# docid-32338600

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90143-10018

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-370750-215

Released under the John

' kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 05C 2107 Notel.

Cased:NT 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 06/15/1953

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32338600

Page 1

9

---

## Page 2

STANDAI

I NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

1O

: DIRECTOR, FBI (100-370.750)

FILE

DATE: June 15, 1953

SAC, LOS ANGELES (100-21198)

ALL INTORMATION CONCATNE

HEREX N

UNCLASSLNTZD

SUBJECT: JOHN HOWARD-LAWSON, Was.

2X082T

HERE SHORS

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

0.0. Los Angeles

OTHERNYA

DIOTASEE TED BY 5668 SL/nde

29-9=

On May 20, 1953, the Hollywood ASP Council, of which organtzation

subject is a Vice Chairman, held a membership meeting at the ASP offices,

7410 Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles.

The purpose of the meeting was to hear

a report from LAWSON and Dr. P. PRICE COBBS, ASP Chairman, who have been

delegates to the ASP National Convention in New York.

This meeting was

on May 24, 19531

SISTE

Included as part of LAWSON's talk to this meeting were comments

regarding the immediate action program for ASP. LAWSON stressed that the

"cultural liberation of the Negro is of the greatest importance":

He further

stated that ASP must fight against the "vicious un-American witch hunt by

corrupt politicians

such as VELDE, JENNER, and MC CARTHY. " He Stated ASP"

must also promote the international campaign to defend CHARLIE CHAPLIN and

to protest his "exclusion" from the country. This is to be accomplished,

LAWSON said, by obtaining written statements from important people and

having these statements printed in a brochure for wide spread distribution.

LAWSON also added that ASP has a special task to perform in promoting the

film production "Salt of the Earth.

On May L4,. 1953, LEOPOLD L. ATLAS, film writer and former member

of the Communist Party in Hollywood, advised SA MARCUS M. BRIGHT and

SA JAMES S. WEIR during an interview with him that he had joined the

Communist Political Association in 194k and subsequently disassociated

himself from the CPA of his own will in 1947.

Among the individuals whom

ATLAS described as having been in the CPA during that period was JOHN

HOWARD LAWSON. ATLAS stated that it was LAWSON who actually had recruited

him into the CPA in 1944..

He characterized LAWSON as the top figure of

the Party in Hollywood.

He stated LAWSON was a member of the writer's

branch to which he, ATLAS, was assigned in 1944 and was also a member

the last branch

to which ATLAs was assigned in 1947 when ATLAS quit the Party..

#259416

MMB : BJF

Reg.

COPIES DESTROY Passfied

Dedlassil

• 41 MAR 27 1963

GABR

7011

RECORDED,: 28

1! 06 186

1100-370750-21

ay JUN 22.1953

1

NW 54460 DooId: 32338600

Page 2

---

