# docid-32290519

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10205-10295

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2717-3RD NR 69

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DẠTE: 02/03/1961

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

WEISBERG, MAX, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, B/F INT,

TELCAL, TRA, THP, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW. :

09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290519

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Recorus Collection Act o1 F992 (41 Usc 210) Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

REVISWED BY

• JFK TASK FORCE

PH 92-453

ON

8.29-98 do

Ã MELBAGE IN FULL

SIDEL, BOUINAT

PH 92-446

BD- 92-2107

C RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

"encruciating palh"

On 1/32/61, M 5T1-0* BOiC BETTY HOPIAN tO

and may have had another operation

for renovas line cancor.

HOTIVA zeportedly "bosido

Linsole

receiving radium treatments,

ANGELO

SUNO, ala

PR 92-444

I0 92:27

On 1/31/61 MI 269-0

was advised by SALVNIORS

MACETO that ANGELO BRUNO was "out of tomm

but informanc

coLse not ascertain ExuNo a location.

Receipt of ARUNO a

boing

On 1/31/61, Inquizy IRS, Eniledelphia,

ascertained bruNo's wife. su, had not filed separate faz:

retum and no apparent investigation

being conducted

regarding BUNds income taz return,

On 1/30/61 P1 591-0% advisod that Paten Maozo diaclosed

ChOS ANGELO BRUNO had been ploted up by the poldeo (Phaladalphia)

and queationed in reganto to thotta cormitted at Maceto Company:

Apparently BRUNo told by polled that if anything happens to

Individuale tho had cormitted thoft they would hold him responsible»

The zotton apparently nesulted in confidential dissoninetion of

Information to Philadelphia FD on 2/19/61 as net forth

Iniladelphie Vecly Sumary 7/22/62,

FYIER MACCIO on inotant

date hold lonethy discussion wich unnon intends assetosing

the above information and

that FANS PALEIIO,

Magelo Compensa

BRUNO,

PETER HAAGIO met him four on five yeare ago

#out thore.*

RALPIT received & letter frontmmy or sainy as to

trouble TRANS PALARMO may be in with the MAGeTOs s

Pezail drove

60 miles to

was a felend

01 MICHAEL MAGGIO;

ANGETO ERUNO

"a bin tough tuy," according to FEWER, who got out of the piecures

mado a lot of money.

and tient out to the coast and. bought land.

FETHER

Chere.

DocId: 32290519

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hoke).

/DATE: 11-14-2017

PE 92-159

He Alvulgod no additional information zosaming the

Stealing from the laggie Checso

Company and poid he was picked

up by the polies woo wanted him to oign confesatons re thests

protection!

ao the MGOtos wore going to 1211 hin.

TRANS

siened no atatements

Refused to take Polygraph:

Folice may

De Debective due momber coptain CLARENCE TERCUSON'S Spoolal

Investigations sead, Shuledelgius Follod bepartnant,

and 1

formes Deputy U.S• Marchal, EDRA.

Foedibly told PAZERO

that a person with the "nichanc

brother of JOSSIE

PIRACITA, enployee of Maggio Comany, wai personinho robbed

company in zocene past:

cottyistas bocanoe SAU

Perps sAce thinks police avara of

PAZO "went to the law.

PLish a180 told his fetend that NARZO MAGeTo had

$550 for "SNUFPY,

who may be Mentioad to Individual proviously

identisted as persen borrowinc monoy from ANDRIO SNUND and

DOMENTIOS FOLLINA,

Mand letter 1/32/62 reponte telenhone numbers called

made piss and ocher veinaties fron zesidenco of CHARLES I.

COSMITO,

12400 102th Baychoro Drive, North, Wam, Moss mo

triond of BRUNO:

Idontity of dubscrtbers boing obtained

i dosed has amangon trouch watero brothere sor

BRUNO to contaot hin 2/3/61.

doLLie chas concert 1422 3

reported i

On 2/3/61 Captain RICARDIvuE, Commander,

PD Intelligence

Phd Ladciphia

Squad, advlood

that Bhuto intezylowed by pollec

offlelale and recording dovies used to monitor intertle mifunction

and no recording resulted.

Iron monory advised BRUNO adaitted

frequent tripa to Floridas that ho 1e no longer in atomn window

business in Florida:

He held ons-third intorost in vending

machine businoss in

Florida which ho recontly sold to Continental

Industries,

He intended to rottum

to Florida to complete sale of

vending machine company which involves 1000 machines.

was jointly in he and his vifcle name.

the nomen of

the tro

partners in tha vending machine company presently not recalled

but he recalle one phonetically as boing MAROTH O2 MAROIRA.

DOxIs wlll pal? those present during interyleu and obtain

consensus of opinion as to pesults which will thorcattor be made.

avattable during coming wool.

DocId: 32290519

Page 3

---

