# docid-32404511

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10331-10382

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : JFK-PROJFILES -CORRESPOND

Released under the John F. Kennedy

ussassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53217 Date: 06-24-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TITLE : (EST PUB DATE) BLIND NOTE: TALKING POINTS WITH DDO ON

JFK BOARD ISSUES

DATE: 01/01/1998°

PAGES

: 1

SUBJECTS: ISSUES

TALKING POINTS

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION ADMINISTRATIVE

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENES

04/30/03

JFK-M-16: F7: 2000.03.08.15:48:45:263031

[R]

ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

104-10331-10382

HH 53217

DocId: 32404511

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Talking Points with DDO on JFK Board Issues

• We are coming very close to finalizing what has been a significant resource draw on

both the DO and HRP/OIM over the past four years.

• Most issues have been resolved satisfactorily through negotiation in good faith by the

Board and ourselves.

• There is a desirability to resolving remaining issues in a way which does not result in

rancor or accusations of withholding by CIA —If possible we would like to avoid an

appeal to the President.

• There are, however, a number of documents upon which we have not been able to

come to resolution. Among them are:

• Elder Document (Angleton/embassy break-in). The EXDIR, without OIM

input, has decided to appeal this document. We believe that there is a

possibility the Board would take it off the table if, per their request, we

provide the true names of the idents to the cleared Board members (which are

incidently, available already in a widely dissiminated book on Angleton).

• Mexico City Station History. Chuck Briggs and Barry Harrelson are

continuing to negotiate between the DO and a JFK staffer on issues which are

peripheral to the JFK story.

• Directorate declarations which supported the EXDIR's declaration of

Compliance. We have resisted provision of these "internal documents" to the

Board, and the IROs were led at the time of preparation to believe that they

would not be provided to the Board. However, as a last minute decision, the

Board has sought them as supporting "administrative records" which reflect

the extent of the searches conducted (comparable to what other agencies are

providing) If we provided them, we would be in a position to delay further

review of sensitive material in these documents until at least the year 2017.

In our view we cannot legally withhold these documents if the Board declares

them "Assassination Records," which they have the right to do. Provision of

these documents would enable us to close this issue and avoid further

controversy. The Fred Wickham has been unwilling to permit his declaration

to be provided.

• CI History Pages. JFK Board Staff recommendations are currently being

reviewed by DO/CIC. We believe this can be resolved through discussions.

Miscellaneous. There are a number of remaining documents on which we

have disagreements and in which we may lose some information, including

privacy information, but over which we are still discussing the details.

• What is not solved today will go the Board and be voted upon either this afternoon or

tomorrow and we need to have the DO's final view on providing the idents on Elder

and the DO declaration as well as authority to negotiate the remain peripheral issues.

I would like to call Judge Tunheim and suggest further discussions between him and

myself which would be final.

HW 53217

DocId: 32404511

Page 2

---

