# docid-32311932

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/10/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10320-10249

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-409763-130

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Motel.

Cased:NW 53130 Date:

06-01-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/09/1964

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

MARK LANE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 53130

35

DocId: 32311932 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

SEP 9 1964

TELETYPE

(5668 500/GC1-5/2/97-75K)

'ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIED 24, 326

DATE 2/22/85

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Casper

Mr.

Callahan

Mr.

Conrad:

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans

Mr. Gale

Mr Rosen

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

Behad

SENT BY CODED TELETYPE

FBI NEW YORK

IN2 AM URGENT 9-9-64 JLW

TO DIRECTOR 100-409763/11

FROM NEW YORK 100117844 3P

MARK LANE, SM - C. 00 - NEW YORK

ON NINE EIGHT LAST NY TWO FOUR ZERO FIVE • S ADVISED SHE

HAD ATTENDED THE MARK LANE LECTURE "WHO KILLED KENNEDY/Q/" ON FRIDAY

NINE FOUR LAST AT THE JAN HUS THEATRE, THREE FIVE ONE EAST SEVEN

FOUR STREET, NYC. INFORMANT STATED THAT DURING HIS LECTURE LANE

SHOWED ON A SCREEN WHAT APPEARED TO BE AN OFFICIAL DOCUMENT OF

INS, NYC, RELATING TO HIS RECEPTION BY INS FROM TRAVEL TO EUROPE.

IT IS NOTED LANE RETURNED FROM EUROPE REC IX THIRTY 4459763 - 130

ON NINE NINE INSTANT NY TWO FOUR ZERO

FIVE -S WAS RECONTACTED

CONCERNING DETAILS OF LANE-S REMARKS BURG THE NINE, OUR 2AS4

LECTURE. INFORMANT STATED THAT ACCORDING TO LANE WHEN HE ARRIVED AT

KENNEDY AIRPORT FROM EUROPE, HE WAS STOPPED BY AN INS OFFICIAL WHO HAD

END PAGE ONE

Let to Ramikag'

• O SEP 2419644: sea

WW 53130 DocId: 32311932 Page 2

---

## Page 3

• PAGE THREE

TO BE A LOOSE-LEAF TYPE, SIZE EIGHT AND A HALF BY ELEVEN INCHES. IT

CONTAINED A HEADING WHICH THE INFORMANT WAS UNABLE TO READ • LANE

QUICKLY POINTED TO HIS NAME ON THIS LIST AND THEN TO THE

CLASSIFICATION SYMBOL "G" WHICH APPEARED BESIDE HIS NAME.

LANE THEN PROJECTED ANOTHER DOCUMENT ON THE SCREEN SHOWING

ONLY THAT PORTION WHICH IDENTIFIED CLASSIFICATION "G" HAS ACCORDING

TO NY TWO FOUR ZERO FIVE - S, CLASSIFICATION "G" UMS XXXX WAS

EXPLAINED BY LANE AS "DO NOT DETAIN. NOTIFY FBI BY TELEPHONE

IMMEDIATELY."

I ORMANT STATED BOTH DOGUMENIS APPEARED TO BE

OF AN OFFICIAL NAYRE.

THE BUREAU MAY DESIRE TO FURNISH THIS INFORMATION TO INS,

WASHINGTON, DC.

LETTERHEAD TO FOLLOW•

END

ELR

FBI WASH DC

/ 1W: 53130

DocId: 32311932

Page 3

---

