# docid-32339958

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act uf 1992 141 USC 2107 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90153-10052

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 105-104811-2716

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO :

. HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

04/28/1966

6

FEDORA

NOSENKO, OSWALD AND JFK

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT, INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

DocId: 32339958

Page 1

15

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE LITI

Transmit the follo

SECRET

gain

(Type in plaintext

code.)

vla

AIRTEL

ROUTE IN LEVELOPE

4/58/16

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-104811)

FROM

SAC, NEW YORK (134 7846)

SUBJECL:

FEDORA

Neaner

ReNYairtel 4/27/66.

IN TIEW OF THE HIGHLY SENSITIVE POSITION OF

MY S65KuS*,

EXTREME CAUTION: MUST BE EXERCISED IN HANDLING

STATION ATTRISUTEO TO THIS SOURCERAND NO ACTIONS

TAVEN WJOR COULD CONCEIVABLY JEOPARDIZE THE SECURITY OF-

THE SCORVANT OR REVEAL HIS IDENTITY.

On

4/27/65, NY 3653-

was interviewed by

SAS HARRY E.

MORRIS,

JR.,

and VINCENT J. CAHILL.

In the

course of that interview, the informant furnished the

following information:

-KGB. Enployees Of NY Residency On

"Lookout" For

YURI NOSENKO At Performances Of The Bolshoi

Ballet In NYC

Informant said that on Saturday,

4/23/66,

he

nas in tae rub. quarters in

the Soviet Vission building

during the morning hours. While he was there, all KGB

employees who were present

in the quarters, were summoned

into the office of NIKOLAY MAKAREVICH who is currently thei

"Chief" of

"Line KR"

(Counterintelligence) Thereafter, quite

a few employees of the

NY Residency appeared In MAKAREVICH'S

office, including the informant

IGOR ANDREEV.

2

- Bureau (RM)

- warn (on sea (65-E6T0) (R) 105 - 10484

2716

_ New York (INV.)

NAY LO 1966

оду.

VIC: mog

(11)

Approved:

Specter Ager

Fin charge

Sent

MAY 13 1900

M- Per

CLASSIIED BY 5668 seo/sCe

DECLASSIFY ON: 25XC6

3908

SECRET

DocTA

---

## Page 3

Released

Reconly Collert

1992

17/6

SECRET

N7 134-7846

Thereafter MAKAREVICH, spoke briefly to those

present and said he was interested in having al? employees

of the NY Residency shown photographs of YURT NOSENKO,

whom MARAREVECH referred to under the KGB code name, IDOL!

MMAREVICH explained that KGB Headquarters in

MoscoW,

following the defection of NOSENKO to western

intelligence representatives, had determined that NOSENKO

had many girlfriends" in the

soviet Union and, in fact,

had introducted some of these "girifriends to OLEG

GRIBANOV, former "Chief" of the Second Main Directorate,

and to FNU) TARABRIN, another official of KGB who was

stationed in Headquarters and who was a close associate

of GREBANOV s%

Maraneven one chat the secono can PineStorato

of KGB had decided, in an effort to determine NOSENKOs

whereabouts, to send to the Us with the Bolshow Ballet

troup several of the girls with whom NOSENKO haa nad

"dealings" in Moscow. MAKAREVICH said it was the thought

of officials of the second lain Directorate that the

presence of these

girlfriends" in the Bolshoi Ballet, troup

nowin the Us, might prompt NOSENKO to attend one or more

performances of the Ballet in an effort to meet with his

former girlfriends"

MAKAREVICH said that now there are

five ballerinas with the Bolshoi Ballet troup in NYC

who bre dous associated with NOSENkO in Moscow.

MAKAREVICH said that KGB had no way of knowing

whether or not NOSENKO might possibly attend a performance

of the Bolshoi Ballet in the US, but said that against

this possibility, line kRy

Counterintellisence) personnel

of coba

geta

care a 11a

Sher nosed of

spotting&

NOSeato an atuerdance

MA KAREVICH

said

that for each performances KGB

in Nychas approximately

20 tickets,

and rioted that KGBy

eac

perromance using these tickets.

240

SECRET

---

