# docid-32300048

## Page 1

released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

- Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10226-10328

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-231

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/23/1961

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32300048

Page 1

388

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE 6 (R₫÷ 1P-130567

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI.

Date:

5/23/61

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

FROM:

SAC,

CHICAGO (92-349)

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka.

Approved:

C: = Wick'

DAILY SUMMARY

Reference is made to daily summaries 5/19 and 22/61

pertaining to interviews with CHARLES ENGLISH and DOMINICK

"BUTCH" BLASI. CG 6457-PC advised that she was contacted by

BLASI 5/19/61

and by prearrangement with this office, advised

BLASI she had been

contacted by the FBI regarding her relation-

ship with GIANCANA,

BLASI then asked

informant to appear at the Armory Lounge,

Forest Park for a

"conference" the same date. Informant stated there were

several people at the Armory at the time she appeared, all

conferring individually with BLASI. Informant unable to

identify any persons there, but assumed they had all been

either interviewed or contacted by the FBI, since that seemed

to be the main topic of discussion. BLASI asked informant

exact nature of contact by FBI, was told that her name had

BLASI at the timé

was drinking heavily, which according to the informant, was

unusual.

GIANCANA was not present, and indications were that

he had left the area. (4)

BLASI advised the informant that he, BLASI, had been

contacted by the FBI and he told the agents to "get lost".

BLASI said he figures the FBI is "trying to get close to me

since I am the closest person to SAM".

Informant then

accompanied BLASI to a new establishment,

a private club located

on Central Avenue in Cicero, Ill, where BLASI continued drink-

ing.

BLASI advised informant that GIANCANA had informant on

his mind constantly and assured informant that he would get in

touch with hergas

soon as

he came back in town, advising

the

3. - Bureau

1 - chicago

REG- 41

92-3171-231

RRH: JEH-VA

EX- 103

(4)

JUN1S1961

134

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCI ASSIFIED

TRATE 4-20-34

_BY SPRE CAL

1& MAY 255.1961

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

_ M

Pe

DocId: 32300048

Page 2

---

