# docid-32324893

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90033-10037

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 39-2591-40

Released under the John

' kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/15/1963

2

FUENTES COBA

JOHN MARTINO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32324893

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56).

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

SECRET

Date:

(Tipe in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MM

105-1859

CRAZE EAT

MM I-l is information furnished by JACK M. BAUMAN,

CIA

INT BL45

ĐTO 8.25,80

5нь отться

12/5/81-

It will be recalled that SA's WILLIAM G. FRIEDEMANN

and EDWIN L. SWEET interviewed JOHN MARTINO shortly after

his arrival in the U. S. He was' endeavoring at that time

to surround himself with newspaper men, radio men, and some

individual who was allegedly assisting

book.

It was noted that he had no specific information,

a lot aly

, him in writing a

and his knowledge of Spanish is so meager that he could

not understand a simple Spanish

conversation.

He appeared

mistaken concerning the entrance into the U. S. of FUENTES

COBA and PEDRO LLAURADO.

Copies of this memorandum are being supplied

locally to CIA and INS, since both of those agencies are

interested in any such developments as reported by JOHN

MARTINO, if it were true. (AXu)

This memo is classified Secret, since the memo

from CIA

supplying the original information was so classi-

fied. (a)(u.)

Approved:

-2-

Pha Patera

Sent

Special Agent in Charge All

-ReL

NW 53074 DooId: 32324893 Page 2

---

