# docid-32315618

## Page 1

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10342-10336

RECORD SERIES: DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-228-1080

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SHELBURNE

TO:

DE

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/10/1964

ANTHONY GIACALONE (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

4

Redact

12/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45790 DocId: 32315618 Page 1

45

---

## Page 2

RE +

torp

2.

Sir.

SAC, DETROIT (9% 138 Sub 2)

February 10, 1964

SA JOHN L. BEELBORNS

VITO GIACALONE

Due to the sensitive nature of this Informant care

should be utilized ia tho dissemination of this informtion.

DI 919-Co advised on 12/10/63, that ANTHONY GIACALONE

had stated that NICK DITIA was scheduled to kill an individual

with a shotgun.

Aecording to the Intormant, it was believed

that this individual might be

Informant, GIACALONE nentioned the "old man" and this night

possibly refer to sAH PERRORS.

Also montioned was PETS LOBBARDO.

According to the Informnt, this shooting was possibly to tale

place on Sunday night at approximatoly 10:00 P.M. and would

be in a washroon at the gas station.

Informant statedithat DITTA

would enter the gas station prior to this time and renove the

sag tron electrical tuse bos so that the lights would not

go on after the intended victim and possibly a second victim

were in the anilding and mable

to tara on the lights, DITTA

would then shoot then with his shotgus.

ENDATION

The above information man

fernished

to INS since they

have an Informant by the name of

and 1t me also

furnished to the Detroit Police

Departnont CI3, at a

later

date,

upon instruction of the Dweau.

I s 92-484

(SAN PERRONE)

1

98-833

(NICE DITIA)

92-816

(Crine Comlitions in Michigan)

92-228

(ANTHONY GEACALONE)

JES/AL

(5)

OTHER 4

92-228-1080

ms.

Junt

10349-10338

NW 45790 DocId: 32315618

Page

2

---

