# docid-32328243

## Page 1

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/22/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90071-10043

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 04/28/1960

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT,

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocIA: 32328243

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

fReleased under the ohn"

Kennedy ASsassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 hote).

DATE!

11-14-2017

FEDEF

UREAU-OF IN

"IGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAM

3

CHANGED:

MANUEL PEREZ

SOSA FÓNT,

aka

Manuel Antonio Perez, Antonio

Perez, Manuel Leon

SYNOPSIS:

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

128/60

3/17 - 4/21/60

REPORT MADE BY

CIA HAS NO OBJECTIDRYRER BY

LEMAN L. STAFFORD A RACATION ALLSamf

CHARACTER OF CASE

RELEASE OF GIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT KP 10-2497

IS -

mit

SLD KSA

≤ D•

8 11-14-47

10-

JFK)

Title Is marked changed to add the name MANUEL LEON, whick s)

-subject has used in the past, as was disclosed by investiga-

6-

Ti

REFERENCES:0

Report SA HEINRICH VON ECKARDT, 3/16/60, New York.

Miami letter to Bureau, 3/31/60.

Miami letterhead memorandums captioned "GENERAL

JOSE ELEUTERIO PEDRAZA CABRERA" dated 4/4, 8 and

15/60.

New York letter to Bureau, 4/13/60.

WMOHS

GAM:

1,841

Mortan

AGENCY

CIA; Hate;

Vis Finis

NEU REED UN1; 031,

G-

2

DATE FOREV

5-12-40

or-hm (3/0058618160

Are: (803815280

NOW FORW.

will that

4612-95

BY ..

Rit"

Fubmitted 6/30/60.

Classified s/51e68 SED/KSR

Declassity

ADR

JFK))

APPROVED A

COPIES MADE;

9

1

4

IN CHARGE

Bureau (105- 81961)(RM) (S)

INS, Miami (RM)

105-

U. S. Customs, Miami (RM)

S. Border Patrol, Miami

G-2, Ft. McPherson, Ga.

(RM)

(RM)

• 051 Angeles

MacDill AFB

. MAY

To Tampa, Fla.

(RM)

York (Info

Washington

Field

(R Info) (RM)

- Mi am 10(305 105-2076316c2405=1084 mado

45 JUN 1.8 1973

2 MAY 1 6 1960

for mo

Bartone N

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOI

81961-

24

ENCT - 12

REC- 15

1960

75 109

REC- 90

EX-112)

PROPER

CHAS

DEOLASG

"it nor its contepts are to be distributed outside the agency towhich loaned.

OFO)

DocId: 32328243

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Rennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2167 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017.

MM [105-2076

SECRET

-ADMINISTRATIVE-

This report is being classified confidential,

Inasmuch as it reflects the Bureau's investigative interest

in a foreign diplomatic official. S

Information concerning [PL 9-0974 at Miami was E

furnished by Mrs. FRANCES CARR, Unit Supervisor, Southern

Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company, Miami, Florida.

It should be noted that this report contains an

FD-302 interview of FREDESVINDO BOSQUE CUETO, which has also

been reported under BOSQUE's own case caption. This inter-

view 1s being set forth under subject's caption, inasmuch as

it contains a considerable amount of pertinent information

concerning the subject and his activities. (BOSQUE's file in

which original FD-302 is contained is 105-1894).

- INFORMANTS-

IDENTITY

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION

MM I-1 is MARIANO FAGET,

under consideration for

development as a PSI, who was

formerly an official of the

Cuban Bureau for Repression

of Communist Activities

(BRAC), during the regime of

FULGENCIO BATISTA, contacted

by SA JAMES D. HAYES.

134-44-Sub A-6

COVER PAGE.

C.

SECRET

DocId: 32328243 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under-the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

EaTE 11-14-2017

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Flold Office File #s

Title:

Character:

Synopsis:

ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONF IDÊNTIAL

1 - INS, Miami (RM)

1 - U.S. Customs, Miami (RM)

1 - U.S.Border Patrol,

1 - G-2, Ft.McPherson, Ga. (RM)

Miami (RM)

LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR.

SÉCRE a D122 ARB, Tampa, FLe (RV)

MIAMI, FLORIDA

April 28, 1960

Miami 105-2076](5)

Bureau File #s

MANUEL PEREZ SOSA FONT| (6)

[I05-81961](5)

4-12-95

Classified by 5 6la8 S4D KSR

Declassify on:

REGISTRATION ACT - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

INTERNAL SECURITY - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

(8(u)

Cuba prior to the downfall of the BATISTA regime. Subject had

[5 Collected intelligence data for PEDRAZA concerning the CASTRO

Forces. PEDRAZA denied subject was attempting to guide or

direct /PEDRAZA's activities in the U. S. Another source said

subject's presence in the U. S. was to see that PEDRAZA was

not bluffing concerning his support by Cuban exiles.

FREDESVINDO BOSQUE CUETO, Miami, reported on 3/22/60, that

subject had departed for the Dominican Republic on that date.

Telephone calls made from subject's New York City hotel room

set forth.

1/28198

CLASSiNDEY 5648 send

ALL IUFORICITION CONTAINEO

MEMONS A 1209 PSSIFIED

DETAILS:

DEAREST ON OF

-P-

COKE WHERE SHOWN

On March 1, 1960, MM T-1, an Individual with many

contacts among Cuban exiles inthe Miami area, informed that

subject and a colone (Nu) hood Ph) of the U. S. Army, had

visited General JOSE PEDRAZA recently in the Dominican

Republic. MM T-I reported the nature of this discussion

between these individuals was unknown to him.

CONFIDENTTAI

SECRET

This document contatns neither recommendations nor conclusions. of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; It and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32328243 Page 4

---

## Page 5

/ReleaSed under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-1894

SECRET -

BOSQUE had a disagreement with MORGAN, a n d

BOSQUE reached the conclusion that MORGAN was lying

and was not going to carry out his counterrevolutionary

plan as he had previously indicated. BOSQUE did not

furnish any additional details concerning this matter,

but said he had no further contact with MORGAN after

that time. BOSQUE did not go into detail, but admitted

that at these two meetings he had been acting on

behalf of General JOSE PEDRAZA.

BOSQUE said that money was subsequently

delivered to WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN, and it was his

belief, though he was not certain, that this money had been

brought up from the Dominican Republic by MANUEL PEREZ

SOSA, described by BOSQUE as an/inspector of Dominican(S)

consulates at the present time.

Concerning this individual, BOSQUE said he

made a trip to the Dominican Republic in April, 195g,

at which time he met PEREZ SOSA through General PEDRAZA. S)

BOSQUE said that Generalissimo

TRUJILLO of the Dominican

RepubliC 15 MANUEL PEREZ SOSA's godfather,] and it was his(5

belief that he is actually a Dominican intelligence agent

He denied that PEREZ SOSA has any connection with the S

visit of General PEDRAZA to the United States. He sai

that frankly Ceneral PEDRAZA does not trust PEREZ SOSA (5)

inasmuch as the latter individual drinks too much and

talks too much.

BOSQUE said that MANUEL PEREZ SOSAJcame to (5)

the United States sometime during the latter part of

1959, and rented a house located at 531 Northwest 24th

Avenue, and had telephone number N54-2143.J It was (S)

SECRET

DocId: 32328243 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hobe).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-1894

SECRET

Peeved the mine donut gener to eucceed orida

However, [PEREZ SOSA was orderedito return to the Dominican S)

Republic abruptly, and has taken on the position of

Inspector of Dominican Consulates. He said thatl PEREZ(S

SOSA makes frequent trips to and from the Dominican(s

Republic, and that while in Miami he apparently

resides at the residence of "ALTAGRACIA" whom he (5)

described as en employeel of The Dominican Consulate)(e)

in Miami, who has telephone number M06-0779] He said

PEREZ SOSA/has a girl friend whom he believed is named S

JULIA (last name unknown), who is either a Panamanian

or Dominican, and who has a red and beige convertible

Chevrolet®

BOSQUE said that [PEREZ SOSA] was formerly a (5)

Consul in Camaguey, Cuba who married a Cuban girlS

amed PLOISA SANCHEZ, He said that PEREZ SOSA was working (S

EDI PEDRAZA in Counterrevolutionary endeavors in Canagues)

SOSA's arrest by FIDEL CASTRO and only because of his

(diplomatic status]was PEREZ SOSA allowed to depart (S)

From Cuba 7 BOSQUE said that [PEREZ SOSA Thad been making(5)

frequent trips to the Dominican Republic, and had

recently arrived on either March 19 or 20, 1960, and

returned with his wife to the Dominican Republic on

March 22, 1960, at 11:45 A.M. BOSQUE pointed out that

PEREZ SOSA, on the occasion of this visit, had only been s)

in contact with PEDRAZA for a period of approximately five

mInutes, and for that reason felt that PEREZ SOSA]was(5)

in no way carrying out any activities on behalf of

General TRUJILLO in connection with the activities of

General PEDRAZA. However, BOSQUE did state that when

(PEREZ SOSA departed, he carried with him several letter (S)

which had been received from Cuba, sent to Miami, Florida,

which, in turn, were then taken to Cuban exiles residing

in the Dominican Republic.

BOSQUE pointed out that

to send mail to the Cuban exiles in the Dominican Republic

in any other fashion would only expose their families, who

could possibly suffer harm in Cuba.

SECRET

DocId: 32328243

Page 6

---

