# docid-32308432

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10294-10290

HQ

105-80115-13

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

FBI

WIGHTMAN, WILLIAM A.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/29/1960

"PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS :

MDL, PDL, ACA, LEAFLET DROP, MEETING, EGM, ASSOC,

TRA, VISA, APPLICATION, US

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF INS

COMMENTS: REFERRAL TO INS

v9.1

DocId: 32308432 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-263 (Rev. 5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

¡XPORTING OPFICE

MIAMI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

OMAR

INVESTIG

ATIve

PERIOD

2 9 1960

10/22/59 - 3/25/60

REPORT MADE BY

WILLIAM A. WIGHTMAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

WAW: dlw

BYMONSIES

MARCOS JOSE DIAZ LANZ

Liasited by sPaMAden

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Declassify on: DABR (JHA

REFERENCES:

Report of SA WILLIAM A. WIGHTMAN, Miami,

9/24/59.

Bulet to Miami, 1/14/60, with dual caption

of above, plus, "SERGIO DIAZ BRULL, RA-CUBA;

IS-CUBA,

" requesting that subjectsbe interviewed

spartas

for details of their trip to Guatemala.

- P* -

LEADS

A at

т 10-69

P. A, B. C, 1,7,8,9,10

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

APPROVED

COPIES MADI:

Will interview subject should he return to the

31

United States for full details re his activities in Guatemala

and future plans in the United States.

0ESL

HY

aN .

3-21-98 (JFK)

31068 S4Q/L5R

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105-80115-

13

REC- 68

Bureau • (105-80115) (RM)

INS, Miami,

Fla.

(RM)

3 - Miami

(105-1962)

8

7 APR E

- 1060

COPIES DESTROYER

ALL INFORMATI

N CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLA

SIFIED EXCEE.

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Arte

-A-

REE RECT MEY

COVER PAGE

DATE FORM. 44- 2-80

HOW FORG

BY

RIs

APRIIT8S701

SECRET

is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

DocId:32308432

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-1962

MM T-3

said that DIAZ blamed JORGE GARCIA

GRANADOS, personal advisor to President YDIGORAS, and the

Communists for his expulsion from Guatemala. According

to DIAZ, the purpose of his trip was to move anti-

CASTRO operations out of the United States, utilizing

the sympathy of other Latin Americans to foster support

to take the pressure

off of the United States in the eyes

of Latin America, ® U)

MM T-3 remarked that DIAZ said that while in

Guatemela, he spoke with (FNU) GONZALEZ SIGUI, Minister of

the Interior, and high-ranking officers of the Guatemalan

Army who appeared to be sympathetic toward the anti-

CASTRO cause. (el)u)

On March 25, 1960, JOSEPH THURMAN, Investigator,

Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), Miami, made

avarlable the file of that office under number A-11881130,

relating to the subject which set forth information that

the subject departed the United States from New Orleans,

Louisana, on December 29, 1959, via Pan American World

Airways, flight 503, with the stated purpose of obtaining

a visa for permanent residence in the United States.

This file also revealed that on March 15, 1960,

subject filed an Application for Permission to Reapply for

Admission Into the United States After Deportation or Removal

at the American Embassy in Mexico City, D. F., which

was denied by the District Director of INS, Miami, on

basis that it did not merit the exercise of favorable

discretion.

• 10* -

SERRET

DocId: 32308432

Page 3

---

## Page 4

*eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 21-11-2017

MM 105-1962

MM T-2 is AT 1372-5*

MM T-3 is CIA report

#TDCS 3/423,897

and #TDCS 3/424,841

SESHET

год дору

(u)

105-1962-21

105-1962-22

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed in this report and "T" symbols were

utilized only in those instances where identities must be

concealed.

COVER

- PAGE

SECT

DooId:32308432 Page 4

---

