# docid-32313814

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/26/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10333-10021

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 02/26/1960

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

HANK GREENSPUN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32313814

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

[Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DA TESTANbARe dogM NoDs 7

Office Memorandum • UNITED STA, &S GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

(105-41609))

SECREE

DATE: 2/26/60

FROM

SAC, 1780 205-15084) 8601X

L AND ENFORUABTON CONCATFET

HEREIN IG UNCLASSIFTSD EXCEP)

WHERE SHONN OTHERWISE,

SUBJECT:

GYULA

LArCOS

(S)

12÷9.94

ack.

IS - HU

(00:WFO)

CLASS 9 CY 5668-520/ De

Declassify

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X L

• On 2/2/60,

WE 527-S* advised that HERNA

3842 Washington Boulevard, University Heights,

0110,

contacted the subject, Conster i Couse elsarianS

Legation, and related that he is interested in buying

antique jewelry fromiungary, would like to make a buying(S)

trip to Hungary in July or August, and requested a "business

visa

10

Source advised Cos assured MERSPIN his fuid (Sl

cooperation and suggested that he come to Washington, P. C.

to tall matters over.

GREENSPUN indicated he would (no

date given).

According to the source,

GREENSPUN related

he came to the United States in 1939. l#

WrO indices contain no information identifiable

with the above GREENSPUN. U

CRISINAL

NATIONAL ARCHIVES (SKANCAUS

DATE

12591

Dodo cames

Cleveland is requested to conduct sufficient

investigation to further identify GREENSPUN and ascertair

whether he possesse:

any

potential for utilization under (SJ

the DESECO program.

For the information of Cleveland Office, subject

arrived in the United States on 1/30/60, and it appears (S_

ne is going to be very active in promoting greater trade

relations betveen the United States and Hungary.

Subject CS

was former Director fartex (Hungarian State Irading (S

ana Crafts) J& (S.

ADD FIDED

2

Cleveland (RIANISED ES

TOURING

He 2: 205-44609-9865)

To FEB 20 1960

- WEO

SLIP(S)

PATE A

CAG: enc

EX-132

(5)

V

SECRET

96J

CONF

AL

DocId: 32313814

Page 2

---

