# docid-32309794

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44

USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10301-10060

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-1423-1ST NR 90

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO : SAC, WMFO

TITLE:

DATE: 05/06/1963

PAGES:

.2

SUBJECTS :

IID, EMP, AGENT, NICARAGUA GOVERNMENT, ASSOC,

POLIT, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/19/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32309794

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

Her

F. Partin

SAC, NFO (97-1638)

Director, FUl (97-3485)

SECRET

12-8/94

5/6/63

ALL INFORRATION COSTAR

HEREN IS PNCLSSIFIED

No No BARRY

EXCEFT WhERE SHOWN

RA - NICARAGUA

OTHERWISE

Declassily on:

DADA

TEK)

Reurlet 4/22/63 wherein you

bureau consider

and edvise NFU as to advisability of

interviering

Irving

2- 7-5

5468 SIs/KSR

Davidson, Arthur Halters

(Ікн)

John layie regarding subject.

Orville Trask, Mertoa I. Kaniiton and

With regard to John

Wayne, it is noted that in your

letter you explained that you did not question subject concerning

CLASSIFIED BY

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X1, 6

Sayne's alleged interest in buidins a note in Nicaramue as ta

source of this intormation was ur: 910-3.

Putile reveals this,

interest of Wayne's has not beer verified through any other

Source.

Should larry become aware of our interview of Hayne it

would seen the effect, possible Jeopardy of the sourse, would

be the sane as questioning Barry about Hayne.

Actually we have

whoo, it can be presuned, he desired to liptess favorably 1t

cannot be assured, that Larry'S Stateuents regarding Haync

TerE

entirely tre. Under the circunstances, Layne shoule not be

interviewed.

Bufiles reveal that inforuation has been developed

throuph otter sources toot walters.

Trask and Hamilton have

exhibited interest in the past in building a hotel in Manague,

Nicarague, and that they are all known, to Berry:

No is aware

of this and has considerable information on file concerning then.

COPY FILED IN

Consequently, Nee should have nade its our reconnemiations

rexarding these interviews.

„In view of Department's

runesE слак w sea Larry s activities in the Uniteu orstes

on behalf of his foreign principal, you are authorized to set

out appropriate leads to secure these interviews unless you

ORICINAL

possess intornation preciucing sane. it will be necessary tor

you to turnisa auxiliory orrices the necessary unc grocad o

this case.

These Tends should be set out innediately.

luforation developed thus far indicates t. Irving

Davidson may well have pertinent incoruation regarding Varry

activities. le stould be interviered proppEly.

aSSURIng KHO

as, not in possession or INTOrRetiOn, anD

кодо ргосійов слія Апсетувей.

- 28-0002 Carthur N. WaLters)

NOT RECORDED

Trask,

et al.)

1-7-1423 (1. Irvine/Davidson

4 99-41963 (John Hayne)

SECRE PUPILE NEON

(0)

301-1011

DocId: 32309794

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

Letter to SAC,

NEU

Ke: FRANK M. BARRY

20-9485

МОДЕА

Lasis of

ZECH SECRET

layestigation is Information we furnished

vepartheny хРом на /05

Indi eating

Manus loves expension in bren Poorsorya civen

veu in payment oy contribuciens Dy

nicaraguan tresidens to 1200 campaigns o Fresident kennedy ans

Representative Flood of Pennsylvania. Xiccording to if 970-5°2

arter Pearson's column appeared, barry Osserted Davidson must

have been Pearson's source as Davidson shares office space with

Peerson's associate, dock Anderson. Loch bavidson and bart

are registered agcnts or Nicaragun and bave spent considerable

tine in that country. Davidson in past has associated with

officials of Teansters Union. lle has been interviewed on several

occasions in past and been outwardly cooperative.

John toyne, notion picture actor and producer.

member and past president of the anti-communist Notion Picture

Alliance.

On 6/9/60 Director wrote him letter of thanks for

his assistance in connection with preparation of article about

a Durales disclose no

reason for not interviewing hin except as stated sbors with regard

to Barry. (94-44909-A3: 94-3-4-94-91)

In 1962 Trask was professional football, player with

Oakland Raiders.

Nicarag R 12 1862 With Toast Convinced Nicare on President ble

a Texan, allegedly appeared in

croup should be granted contract, to build a hotel there and gave

S,000 check to show his good taithe check bounced.

Union or a stevedores union, le is connected with the East Coast

4 times in New York in 1940s on bad check and petty larceny charges

on one of which he was sentenced to serve 6 worths la penitentiary.

Barry's Registration Statenent gives purpose of his

and protection or Nicaraguan residentis family in U

altered, barty is trying on behal, o licaraguan coveriment to

secure construction os hotel in acarogus, above incervicus way

establish he is acting in violation of Registration Act.

-2-

SECRET

301-10000

DocId: 32309794

Page 3

---

