# docid-32125779

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Motel.

'DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

-...

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10027-10116

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-109060-2108

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/17/1963

1

JFK, SUSPECT, SAINT JACQUES, DAVID JOSEPH

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/30/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DOdId: 32125779

Page

8

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kerpedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note).

ortidwIFarm 1d, +d 4-2017

UNITED STATES GO LASANT

Memoranaum

REC- 39

Tenk

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

DATE:

12/17/63

FROM

EGAT, MEXICO (89-6) (P)

CUINIAINEW

9803 ROD.

SNOLASS

MEREIN 15

E5-24

SUBJECT:

ASSASSINATION OF. PRESIDENT.

JOHN F. KENNEDY, TEXAS

11/22/63, DALLAS

Re San Diego letterhead memorandum of 11/27/63,

which set forth information received from a State Judicial

Police agent in Mexicali, Baja California, Mexico, to the

effect that during the late President KENNEDY's visit to

AGENCIES

AND FIEID OIN

ATVIDED BY

SETP(S

DART

American on whom they had received information to the effect

that he was planning an assassination of KENNEDY in Mexico

This office was in very close touch with all Mexican

police agencies during the time of the visit.of President.

KENNEDY to Mexico, 6/29-7/1/62.

this visit. This individual,

DAVID JOSEPH I. TACQUES AKA

approach the

was riding down Reforma Street in Mexico City. It subsequently

developed that ST. JACQUES was a psychopathic case who fancied

that all the cancer cases in the United States

were being caused

by the noxious fumes being released by chemical factories and

he wanted to talk to President KENNEDY about this matter. U

ST. JACQUES was held in custody by Mexican authorities

until 7/3/62, at which time he was deported from Mexico City

to San Antonio, Texas.

Full background on ST. JACQUES was

furnished to U. S. Secret Service representatives while they

were in Mexico City.

Information concerning ST. JACQUES will

be found in mylet of 7/6/62 captioned DAVID JOSEPH ST. JACQUES

FPC. U

TEXOS

UNRECORDED COPY FILMI

Two extra copies of this letter are attached for

forwarding by the Bureau, to, Paelns, office of origin, and one

copy is attached for

forwarding

the San Diego Office for

information.4

6 it continuine No

The MexicECSty OFt, Evestigation injingtant matter

62-109060

2. CL

12-77-636 - Bureau

СЕНЕУУГ ТИЛЕЕМОФЛІЛЕ

HEN

(1 - Liaison Secti

(2 - Dallas,

89-43

(1 - San Diego, Into.

1 - Mexico City

CDA: plb

(7)

EATING

196%,

DocId: 32125779 Page 2

---

