# docid-32304103

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10285-10115

RECORD_ SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 7-6920-7080

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. SL

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/20/1958

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: BBA, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, MED, ARREST, FINANCES, BUSS ACT, TEST

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 05/09/1998

STATUS

Redact

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32304103

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SI. 7-429

PMK: Emk

On August I2, 1958 MAY TRAYNOR was contacted by

SA PHILLIP M. KING, at which time she related she had re-

ceived a telephone cail on the evening of August 11, 1958

TRAYNOR stated that the

caller advised

ho washington he he LEtTAN onetee an desired to know

her he was with

what information TRAYNOR might possess concerning JOE COSTELLO

and BARNE

BAKER®

MOI

In essence,

TRAYNOR stated the Individual desired

subpoena her before the MC CLELlAN committee to testily

regarding her knowledge of both COSTELLO and BaKEr which she,

TRAYNOR, stated she would do.

During the conversation TRAYNOR was advised that

this office had received

Information that she, TraYNor, had

actually had $50,000 in her safety deposit boxes, from

she alleged the COSTELLoS stole $17, 500. Further,

office was aware that JOHN and JENNIE HAGER had visited with

her and the COSTELLOS while she and the COSTELLOS were in

Las Vegas, Nevada vacationing In 1957•

At this point TRAYNOR stated

frank and truthful, and related 1t was

she

would like to be

true she had $50,000

In her two safety deposit boxes,

and that each box contained

$25,000 at the time she alleges

the COSTELLOS

stole $17, 500

fron them.

TRAYOR related she had not given

the true

amount

previously because she was sIrald that she would

be investi-

gated again by the Internal Revenue Service for that money.

At this point TRAYNOR was questioned again by

SA KING concerning the monies she paid for her settlement

with the Internal Revenue Service In 1957.

It is noted that

a canceled check of TRAYNOR's, payable

Revenue Service, in the

amount of $4,000, odd,

and another

canceled check,

the

psyable

to attorney MORRIS A. SHENKER. In

amount of s1 500, which she,

TRAYNOR, stated was In

settlement of her

income

tax

case and lees to her attorney,

MORRIS SHENKER.

It is noted at this point that si 1143-C had

previously

advised SA KING that TRAYNOR had

Indicated to her

that

she actually had spent $10,600 to have

her income

tax

settled, and that she had given MORRIS SHENKER &

sun

16

DocId: 32304103

Page 2

---

