# docid-32334690

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90118-10049

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2897-103

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NO

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 08/23/1959

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TT

v9.1

NW 45922

DocId: 32334690

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BURENU OF INVESTIGATION

V. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG 27 1959

TELELY

Mr. Tolson.

Nir. Belmont_

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. McGuire.

Mr. Mohr.

Mr. Parsons

a) Mr. Paren'

Mr. Tamm

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman_

Miss Gandy.

URGENT 8-23-59

6-32 PM CST WTI

TO DIRECTOR, FBI AND SAC, DALLAS

FROM SAC, NEW ORLEANS 2P

consig

OTHER 1B, 4

HARRY RAYMOND POPE, AKA, FUGO, I.O. THREE TWO EIGHT FIVE, WE

TWO TWO NINE, PEGGY ANN

FRYE, AKA, FUGO, UFAP, BURGLARY,

ADW, HARBORING. RE DALLAS TEL TO BUREAU AND NEW ORLEANS AUGUST

TWENTYTWO. BUREAU APPROVED INSTALLATION NOT WORKING IN PCI-S

CAR, SINCE SHORTLY AFTER

PHYSIA SURY STARTED DALLAS.

IND RUBY JELSEN ARRIVED NEW ORLEANS FOUR AM TODAY, CHECKED INT

COLONTAL HOTEL COURTS, STILL UNDER FERVE LANCE TODAY ADULSES

SA C. FRANK ALDEN, OKLAHOMA CITY, THAT JELSEN CLAIMED CONTACT

WITH FRYE TO BE MADE BETWEEN EIGHT PM AND EIGHT THIRTY PM, TONJEHT

OR TOMORROW NIGHT AT BAR, SEVEN THIRTY EIGHT TOULOUSE STREET.

CALLER WILL IDENTIFY HERSELF AS JOYCE THOMPSON AND ASK FOR JELSEN

OR PCI BY NAME AND GIVE INSTRUCTIONS ON PLACE OF CONTACT WITH

FRYE.

CLAIMS JELSEN STATED FRYE ADVISED POPE NEEDS TRANS-

PORTAT ENTO TOUCE AND ON ME ORE FAES 1S 18 RON 3

BOOK. JELSEN CALLED DALLAS FBI ELEVEN THIRTY AM TODANG ALAMED

END PAGE ONE

EX. - 124

Mr. Rosen

62 SEP 1 1959

HH 45922 DocId: 32334690 Page

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

CALLING WITHOUT PCI-S KNOWLEDGE. STATED PCI TO BE CONTACTED BY

FRYE TONIGHT EIGHT PM, POSSIBLY AT BAR ON TOUSON STREET, PHONETIC,

OR SIMILAR NAME. JELSEN CLAIMS UNABLE TO QUESTION PCI FURTHER RE

IDENTITY OF BAR. MEETING PLACE AND FRYE, IF SHE APPEARS, WILL BE

COVERED. REMY CALL, TO BUREAU TODAY AND BUREAU CALL TO NEW ORLEANS,

MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

MISUR BEING USED IN ROOM NEXT TO JELSEN-S AND PCI. POPE IS

HEAVILY ARMED AND SHOULD BE CONSIDERED EXTREMELY DANGEROUS. FRYE

IS ARMED WITH THIRTYTWO CALIBER AUTOMATIC, HAS ASSAULTED POLICE

OFFICERS IN THE PAST AND SHOULD BE CONSIDERED EXTREMELY DANGEROUS.

OC ADVISED AM.

END AND ACK PLS

WA 8-36 PM OK FBI WA JG

DL OK FBI DL JAP

TUM

HW 45922

DocId: 32334690

Page

3

---

