# docid-32343209

## Page 1

Date: 11/24/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

104-10051-10156

Released under the John F

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1902

144 USC

Case#: NT 53199

late:

06-06-2017

JEK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

REARDON, RAYMOND M., OS/SAG

TO : DC/SAG

TITLE : DOCUMENTS RELATING TO THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

DATE: 10/29/1975

PAGES : 15

SUBJECTS: DOCUMENTS

DETENTION

JFK ASSASSINATION

NOSENKO Y

SAFE SITES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

- DATE OF LAST REVIEN: 05/10/04

COMMENTS : JFK5: F13: 20031203-1019526

-----

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICIED

104-10051-10156

NW 53199 DocId: 32343209

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-

29 October 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUB.JECT

:

Documents Relating to the Kennedy

Assassination

Mich tooler own regent ten voted one

covert security file #262 622 relating to the custodial

handling, of Yuriy Nosenko.

In addition to the eighteen

volumes, various unnumbered files relating to site plans

for the

various safe sites used in this case and adminis-

trative files relating to expenses incurred and other

miscellancous items were also revicwed.

a result of these reviews, the

attached documents

weïe located which make mention of Nosenko's being debriefed

concerning Lee Harvey Oswald.

Additionally, a memorandun

lated 11 March 1964 from the District Field

Office. (DFO) was.

also located which gives a summary of information which

losenko provided to DFO personnel during casual conversation.

Ine of the

items in this memorandum is the lengthy discussion

of Nosenko's knowledge of Oswald.

appst peeraton

aymond M. Reardo

Security Analysis Group

Atts

Document Number

1355-1061

for FOlA Review on

HAR 1977

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 063994

-SECRET

HH 53199 DocId:32343209 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

6 July 1964 Report

On 2 July MeErs. NOBLE, WESTRELL, and BENNETT visited the site.

The present air conditioning situation is satisfactory. Mr. McMAlION

arrived at noon in a "panic"

', had to speak to Subject Immediately and

did so until 1345 hours, discussion a Norman Mihailovich BORODIN

(phonetic) and his family.

While McMAHON was there SR Division

called and pressed the matter even harder. MCMAHON then returned to

Headquarters and came back to the site again at about 1645 hours. He

expects to remäin about hours.

On 3 July an interrogation of Subjoct by RYAN look place from

1230 to 1530 hours.

Discussion dealt with the OSWAt case.

On 4-5 July all custodial precedures were routine. Subject did

try to "bun" a cigarette from a DFO man (Subject is getting smokes

during interrogation sessions).

Division doesn't plan to visit Subject on 6 July according to

latest reports.

8 July 1964 Report

No visitors at the site on T July. Subject ate all meals, was

given a bath in the evening.

All custodial procedures nornal and

routine.

13 July 1964 Report

Custodial procedures were routine during the weokend of 11-12 July.

14 July 1964 Report

On 13 Jily Case Officer MCMAHON interrogated the Subject from

1530 hours to 1720 hours (subject&s of discussion unknown). All

custodial procedures routine and normal.

No case officer viaits to the site are expected today.

-SECRET

- -

HH 53199 DocId:32343209 Page 3

---

## Page 4

27 July 1964 Report

No visitors to the site over the weekend. Subject has been avialy

writing and reading, smoking about & pack of cigarettes per day.

All

custodial procedures routine.

On 27 Julx 1964, case officer RYAN Interviewed Subject from 1330

to 1830 hours, discussing OSWALD case. Subject had written on many

sheets& paper, mostly answers to questions put to him by the case

officers.

from Subject to Pete (BAGLEY), although the contents

to RYAN yet.

Subject was given a book entitled, "Democracy In Unions" yes-

terday.

No visitors are expected on 28. July, although it is anticipated

that both the Doctor and RYAN will come to the site tomorrow (29 July).

Subject is in good spirits.

Custodial procedures arenormal and routine.

At the request of OS/LOG, Tom RYAN was requested to initiate action

with SR/DOB to provide some relief for the cook. Emma has been working

ano day week since early April with Ed SINNER's wife filling in the

seventh day. RYAN was requested to obtain the services of a cook.and

a helper to work at least 2 days a week and no more than 3 days. RYAN:

will advise.

29 July 1964 Report

No visitors to site on 28 July. Subject given bath in evening. .

All site custodial procedures routine.

30 July 1964 Report

On 29 July the Doctor visited Subject From 1015 to 1115 hours.

He pronounced Subject to be in good condition, although Subject still

claims we are taking pictures of him. The Doctor recommended no

changes in routine.

=.

SECRET

HH 53199 DocId:32343209 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

30 July 1964 Report

Case Officer RYAN interrogated Subject from 1530 to 1800 hours,

29 July:

the method (s)

talked about some Americans recruited in Paris for the KGB.

All custodial procedures routine and normal.

31 July 1964 Report

On 30 July 1964, all custodial procedures were routine and normel

Case officer is expected to come to the site on 31 July 1264.

3 August 1964 Report

On 31 July 1964 case officer RYAN interrogated Subject from 1400

to 1600 hours.

They discussed "Intourist", KGB personalities, USSR

war plans and KGB activities during the "Cuban Crisis". Subject dill •

believes we are taking pictures of him.

At 2015 Subject came to the door of his room, said he wanted to

talk.

In effect, he wanted to get something off his chest.

He said

he could talk because he knew the cameras and recorders were not

operative at that. hour. He launched into a monologue about his mother,

father, sister, brother and uncle.

Became very emotional, saying that

he was misunderstood, that he really wants to remain in the US.

Spoke

of his KGB work, recruitment and techniques. Finally at 0045 hours,

I August, he went to bed.

Remainder of 1 August was uneventful. Sunday 2 August also quiet.

All custodial procedures routine.

=.

SECRET

HH 53199 DocId: 32343209 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

#262 622

5 August 1964

Week of 27 - 31 July 1964

Interrogation on 27 July 1964 ran from 1334 to 1828 hours. With

the exception of social amenities and a review of the notes SUBJECT had

made since his last Interview with the Case Officer, the Interrogation

consisted of a review of the OSWALD case.

It was based on a verbatim

transcript the Case Officer had typed from the 3 July 1964 tape. The

Case Officer (Thomas RYAN) questioned SUBJECT on why KGB did not do

certain things such as run an investigation of OSWALD, check into his

Marine experience, etc.

On 29 July 1964 (a.m.) the doctor made his weekly examination of

the SUBJECT.

SUBJECT gave a brief run-down of his personal life before

his father died in 1958, said he was being kept in confinement because

he is trying to help us and said we are still taking pictures of him but .

the clicking has become quieter.

On 29 July 1964 interrogation ran from 1530 hours to 1802 hours.

The OSWALD case was discussed again and the Case Officer started a

discussion on how people obtain and keep guns in their homes in Russia.

He also wanted to reconcile the fact that SUBJECI at one time stated

OSWALD was a poor shot but on another occasion said he was a good narksman.

The Case Officer then went into a discussion of a Paris based, American,

U. S. Government employee who was recrulted by the KGB.

This individual was

still in Paris in January 1964. He would make documents available to KGB so

they could be photographed and returned to the vault on the game day.

SUBJECT had no identifying data on this American. The discussion concerned

the American's contacts, station. location, travel routes, etc.

On 31 July 1964 interrogation started at 1416 hours. Questions and

discussion concerned the Intourist Organization and the extent to which

It serves as a cover for KGB people, KGB war emergency plans, and the

extent to which these plans were activated at the tine of the U. S./ Cuban

Crisis.

The last item discussed was the ODESSA case. ODESSA Is the code name

for an agent named CUPPA who was scheduled to go to Tokyo in April 1964.

Interrogation concluded at 1824 hours.

JJB: jma

SECRET

-1-

=.

NW 53199 DocId: 32343209

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECHIT

1262 622.

The Case Officer then started discussing the case of a Bulgarian

GIORGIEV, who was arrested by the Bulgarians in Moscow in 1963. SUBJECI

obtained his information on this case from SHERAPIN, and Alexander PAPOVICH

in 1963.

SUBJECI said GIORGIEV was invited to Moscow in 1963 at the suggestion

of the Bulgarian MVD. He was settled in the Metropole Hotel and kept

under TV surveillance. While he was in Moscow his rooms in Bulgaria

were searched and evidence was found (radio) which was sufficient for

the Deputy Chief of the Bulgarian MVD to go to Moscow, arrest him and

return him to Bulgaria for questioning and trial or court martial.

SUBJECI went to Bulgaria in 1961 to help them on American cases.

He stated there was no suspicion of GIORGIEV at that time. GIORGIEV

had worked in the United States and was believed to have been recruited

at that time.

The Bulgarians, on confronting GIORGIEV in the Metropole Hotel,

said, "George DUVAL, you're under arrest".

At this point the interview ended and SUBJECT asked the Case Officer

to congratulate the boys and wish them all a good holiday for him. He

did this when the Case Officer said he did not think he would be back

on 3 July.

Friday 3 July 1964, - The Case Officer wanted to discuss the KGB

Involvement in the OSWALD case.

• SUbJEer said he did not know that OSWALD went to Moscow from Helsinki

but that OSWALD's visa application was processed in the normal manner

and KGB had a copy of the vise application. 'Russian Embassies, since

1960, have authority to issue visas in three to five days after application.

OSWALD applied orally, and later in writing, for Soviet citizenship.

A copy of the written request went to KGB. A copy of this request was

sent to the Supreme Soviet after OSWALD slashed his wrists.

KGB studied reports on OSWALD prepared by Case Officer KRUZNOF and

decided OSWALD was not normal so he was of no interest to KGB and was

not considered desirable for Soviet citizenship. His file was sent tr

Minsk because he was to live and work in Minsk.

SECRET

-6-

HH 53199

DocId: 32343209

Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

DEUN

=.

#262 622

The American Embassy was not informed of his suicide attempt because

he was going to leave the country and he was not an important person.

While OSWALD was in Minsk he received a stipend from the Red Cross.

KGB. had Information on Marina OSWATD only after she announced her

Intention to marry him.

A record check, neighborhood, and employment

check on her showed that she was a simple, normal, not clever person,

and she was not in the Young Communist League because she dia not pay

her dues.

Some investigative reports said she was stupid.

KGB did not consider

using her in any capacity.

She has an uncle who is a Lieutenant Colonel in the Minsk militia.

She must be illegitimate because she does not use or know her father's.

stame.

The only surveillance ever put on OSWALD was an agent and there was

never any on Marina.

After their marriage her pay was Increased to impress the foreigner

she married.

She was not asked to stay in Russia after marriage because he was

to leave and Russians believe a husband and wife should be together

(unless one is a high level person).

Neither of the OSWAlde got any briefing or instructions before

leaving Moscow.

In addition to KRUZNOF and the SUBJRCT, DURAS and MUSHKOV were

the KGB Agents in Moscow who knew of the OSWALD cace before the

assassination.

A Department Chief, JQOKOV, and five other KGB Case

Officers knew of the case after the agsassination.

KGB considered OSWALD an American citizen because he had been

denied Soviet citizenship.

KGB did not know any of OSWALD's personal contacts in Russia.

Some of the Intourist people OSWALD dealt with were KGB Agents

or contacts.

SECRET

-7-

HH 53199 DocId:32343209 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

#262 622

OSWALD's case was not the same as other Americans in Russia because

he was considered not normal and he was not considered a defector as

were MARTIN and MITCHELL.

SUBJECT heard that OSWALD applied in Mexico for return to Russia.

Word went from Mexico to the First Main Directorate; to the Second Main

Directorate. Second Main Directorate told First Main Directorate that

he had tried suicide in Russia, married a Soviet citizen, departed Russia

and was considered not normal so the request should be rejected.

SUBJECT was then shown some photographs and he said he had seen a

picture of Marina OSWALD in a magazine.

A long list of names was read and shown to SUBJECT but he failed

to identify any of them. Many of the names were of people in Minsk.

JJB: jms

SECRET

-8-

HH 53199 DocId: 32343209

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

• TO BE OPHIED BY ADDRESSEE OILY

District Field Office

11 March 1964

MNORAIDUM FOR: Headquarters

SUBJECT

262. 622 € BD

Referance is made to Headquarters letter of ansignment In

this càse dated 4 Mirch 1964.

2. During the pariod 20-23 Februry 1964, shile SUBJECT wac

under the protective custody of Special Agents Stanley C. LACH,

George R. BREWER and Alfred B. MCGARRAGHY, SUBJECT voluntarily

SUBJECT to make comments relative to there matters.

SEORIS, HOBBIES

(a) On 20 February 1964 SUBJECI disclosed that he enjoys 'the

following sporta: football, hockey and billfurds.

FORNICN TRAVE

sivity ot the

KGB visited and trorked on operational projects for the Soviet Union

In practically all of the countrico of Europe; horever, he has never

SECRET

HH 53199 DocId: 32343209

Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECREF

JADENIK, George M. (A)

#262 622

C 8D/1

traveled to the for Inst, except while handling an agent who has

active againet the Japanere.

He (SUBJICT) stayed In the Kurilo

Islando which are within sight of Jayan. This was in 1949. He

said that he was active in the picking up of agents by plane and

slily in this area.

FAMILY BACKGROJND

(o) In the latter part of the evening on this came date,

20 February 1964, tha SUBJECT stated that his father was a member

of the Camuniet Central Comnittee, one of the firet members of

the Commmiet Party, and that he had great respect for hid father.

The SUBJECI also indicated that his father was a shipbuilder and

lator becue one of the first to organize and set up the fussian

It was during this latter acilvity that he

(the SUBJECT's father) and three other officials came in contact

with radiation, which affected his father's liver and a few years

Jater at the age of 54 his father died of cancer. The SUBJECT

Jent on to state that his father, being a very prominent Communist,

was civell treatment for this cancer in a special hospital which 1s

located in the hille outside of the city of Moscow, and during his

tenure in this hospital the tantly resided with his father. Mey

had five room living quarters beside the room in thich his father

was confined.

This privilege, he said, is only given to the especially

prominent VIPs of the Cormunist Party,

indicating that his facher was

oue of the top men In the Communist Party.

MILITARY ACCIVILY

(a) Tha SUBJECT revenled that In 1949, at the nge of 16, ho une

a Nával Cadet. He vas called into the service beforo eraduating from

what is our equivalent of a high school.. le had taken part in the

fighting in the Black Sea Arca where he

described hand-to-hand combat

with Germans, claimed he was wounded, and beculue of his bravery he

was ararded the Soviet Order Nadal and the Order of Galla. The CUBJECT.

stated this was unusual for a porson of his age and gained him creat

rospect. At the end of the var ho had no more desire for military life

although his superiors tried to keep him In the military. Instead, he

went for four yeurs to the Institute of Foreion Politions and learned

the Inglish language. • Upon graduation, a mn cime to him and told him

that he hnd a job lined up for him.

He stated that this actually tos

more Ilke being ordered to take this particulnr job which turnod out

SECRET

-2-

H# 53199 DocId: 32343209

Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECRET

LESNIK, George M. (A)

1262 622

C SD/1

to be with the laval Intelligence. He claimed that there vere tro

military Intelligence organizations at the time, the laval and the

Ground Force military type.

LINE OSHALD IN RUSSIA

(e) On 23 Februay 1904, an SUBJECT approached the table for

the evening heal, he noted that the Ilma mgazine Iying on the coffce

cable in the living room had a picture of Inrie OSkALD.

As he sat

down he hit the table with his fist and snid, "I feel that I could

have stopped OSWALD", At this point Special Agent Stanley C. LACI

noked him

"how?", lle proceeded to state that he (SUBJECT) was head

of the RCB Tourist and Vinitora Section which kept coutrol over the

activitles of OSHALD while ho vas In the Soviet Union. He cald at

the cine, OSWALD vas of no special concern or Interent to the KGB

wnch he applie

inforned OskArD that he would have to make his applicition through the

appomlate channels of the State Departmant, who in '12n would request

hio reicase fron tho Russian counterparto in

handlins of vias.

he ruid was nll done for propaganda .ind show. pirposer. le vent on to

einto that if they really vanted to reluase OSWALD, it could have been

done on the spur of the moment, but since OSWALD had nothing and vau

not woith anything, they decided that this was an opportunity to show

the Americon State Department that they did not mind rcleasing Individ-

uals 11 they applied for releare through the appropriate channels.

Prior to this application for release of OSWALD, the SUBJECI stated

that since he vas of no particular interest to them and there tras

nothing in Moscow that they could use him for of' plach him into, they

decided that they would send OStArD to liluck where he rould be placed

In a faciary working on rudios in the hope that some training in the

elecirical und electronic fleld might rusult in hie development into

an electronics enginoor; hovever, he chured no copability in this ficla.

The cuntect then staled that it man just at this period, before senuing

OsWALD to linsk, that a very kirange thing happened.

OstAiD was supposed to have a meetine with a travel agent in regard

to Incparations for his going to Minck at 4 o'clock in the arternoon.

At 6 o!clock he ot111 did not report to the travel agent, so the travel

agent decided to go to the hotel where OSWALD vas staying to see ij he

could locate him.

When he got to the hotel he asked the clerk if OSWALD

'o

-SECRET

-3-

53199

DocId: 32343209

Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECALF

LESNIK, Georgo M. (A)

1262 622 C SD/1

ras in his room, the clerk nodded afflimatively, and the travel agent

proceeded to OSWALD's roon. lie tried the door, but the door vas 10 'ed.

He knocked, got no response, and then with the assistance of the cle k

they broke

"Into the room and found OSWALD lying across the bed with both

of his wrists slashed.

The travel agent and the clork responded Immediately

by taking OSWALD to the near-by madical facility wiere ho was given blood

tronsfusions and altor a perlod oi time regained his strencüh. During the

Investigation the following day the SURJECI stated that the docior indicated

that had OSWALD not been found for approximatoly ton more minutes, he rould

have been dead.. It Is here that the SUBJRCt again pounded the table and

said if the travel agent had not broken into the room, but had incicad

contacted the KGB office like they are Instructca to then they do not

get any response from people with von they luve appointments, that he

(SUBJECT) would have most I1koly dirociod the traval agent to forget

about hin, and on the falloing day on later that erning he rould have

sent one of the KGB agente to check on OSWALD, at which time ho would

have been found dead.

This, he vent on to state, le that lurto him

when he realizes that he could have beon instamenial in disposing of

OswALD althout any special inquiry or sorlous investigation, OstAI

being nothing, and at the same time today the President of the United

Etates, President KuNitY, would do alive. The SUBJECT then went on'

to state that after OSWALD was sent to Minok It was there that he nct

Marie. Like himself (OSWALD), Marte vas a 61rl frau a peacant family

with no special background and sonewhat Illiterate. It was because

of her poor background that she was given perminnion to marzy OStLiD

and retur to the United Staies as his wife.

The SUBJECT then went on to describe what took place on the day

that President KUNNIDY vas ascaccinated. He caid that this was actually

on Inturday in Moscor, the 22nd of lovurber. He was hona at the time

and huppened to have the radio on, when he hcard that the licoideut of

the Unitod Stated had becn assassinated. Approcimicly one lour lnicr,

the radio Informed him'that the assesein vas Ice OStALD. This announcement,

ho said, rcally stumed hin.

lie crabbed his cout aui dached to hin office.

Immediately upon his arrival he vcarchod for the OSWALD f1le.

When he

found the file he roviered it and found that OSWAlD had not been unca

or even approached for use by the Rudsian Intclligence. He put in a

long distance call to the Chief of the KCH Seciion In Minsk and inquired

whether they had used, trained or prepared OSKALD in any way for Intell-

gence activity. The Chief Intoined him that according to vhat he could

recall, they had not made auy use of OSWALD.

Just about this time, he

(SUBJECT) stated that his superior vallied into the office and dirccted

"5

H# 53199 DocId: 32343209

Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

LESNIK, George M. (A)

11262 622

C SD/1

the SUBJECI to get all the iuformation avallable on OSWALD and prepare

a curmary to be furniched the top officials of the Communist Farty.

The SUBJECT then diracted the KGB Agent In Minak to I1kewise prepare

a sumary of his file on OSWALD and Informed him thit within twenty

minutes a KGB agent would arrive by special military plane to pick

up the surmary for return to loscor.

He said this jas accomplished

and within one houx they were preparing a detalled report on OSHALD's

activity in Russia. This, concluded the

suBJect, ty the story of

OSVALD in fussia.

C. P. AITILIATION

(i) The SUBISCT also Indicuted that he did not join the Conmunist

Party unilt he vas 27 years old, end he did this out of respect to his

lather, who at the time vas on hid death bed and asled him (SUBICCT

whether he would do him one nore lavor before he died. That 1s how

the SUBJECT stated he joined the Communtst Party. Otherwise, he probably

gould not have been a menber to this day.

DIPLOiTS AND INCHILIGHiCE TYFES

(8) The SUBJDCT stated that the KGB are able to differentiate

betwech Anpricans who are assigned to lioncow and are actually the

Stute Deparinent type, from those who have on Intelligence background,

by the fact that the intelligence type of people do not ascociate with

the Russian Girls, that 1o they will not so out with them alone, whereas

the State Department typo will. Mso, over a period of a month or two,

they Invariably are nble to find evidence that the intelligence types

have been macturbating.

This to usually detected though close exam-

ination of the individual's tovelo and bed cheets.

RUSSIAN U-1 AIRCRAFT

(h) On 25 February 1964 during the evening meal, a discussion was

had regarding the recent alinlane crashes noted in the nevspapers and on

TV In the United States. The SUBJECT commented that he has a lot of

friends who are test pilots and who are now engaged in testing what he

reforred to us a U-l type of aircraft that le faster than any other

aireraft in the world. lle added that theue friends are highly paid

but thoy have very dengerous jobs.

SECRET

-5-

HH 53199 DocId: 32343209

Page 14

---

## Page 15

SECRET

[LESNIK, George M. (A)

#262 622 C SD/1

SUBJECT'S FATHER

(1) The SUBJECT also made reference to his father during this

meal, describing him as a very tall and extremely well-built Individual,

and one who vas extremely Intelligent and a self-mage, self-caucated

man. He learned the shipbuilding trade mostly through his on rescarch

and study, and also from the SUBJECT's grandfather, who van one of the

first shipbullders in Mussia. The SUBJICT added that his grandfather

died at the age of 94.

He also stated that after the death of his

father, a memorial ras built in hi0 memory since he vas considered

a very capable director of the coverument shipping industry.

ras about the last time he suw his mother and hrother and sioter, as

they ail went to this cercmony in honor of his father.

indicated that there ros a periodical which gave a complete rin-down

on his family background, including thut of his grandinther and his

father, and it vas well publicized; and this he belleves had a lot

to do with his being able to get some special prefercice and move

along as fast as he did in tho KGB orgonization.

KGB PRISSURE ON FAMILY

(1) On 27 February 196h during lunch, the SUBJECT stated that he

has been informed that the KGB 16 putting pressure on his inmediate

family, particularly his mother. Hovever, he said he was not overly

vorried about her because she is well-off financially, and buing up

In age there is not much they can do to her, However, what concerns

him most is the fact that they have already started to play on the

sympathies of his two children and his wife. The SUBJICT stated that

he was anticipating this; horever, he ild not think that they would

start so soon to prescure the fandly.

that in due time he may be able to get his family out of fussia. this

, hope he said vus given to him by the Chief of SR Division.

LIBRARY OF CONGRASS PIRURATION

(k) On 25 February 1964 during a sichtseeing tour of lashington

Spocial Agent Stanley C. LACH caid,

what research was being done in the Ilbrary of Congress by the military

SECRET

-6-

53199

DocId: 32343209

Page 15

---

## Page 16

-SECREL

LESNIK, George M. (A)

#262 622 C SD/1

and thereby get an Idea as to what the military vos planning in the

iny of armanents and things of that nature. The SUBJECT also advised

that the recponsibility for getting Information surreptitiously from

American Imbassica in forcign countries who employ. Indigenous personnel,

falls tithin the confines of the KGB. He stated that the way they to

about this is to work through the Indigenous personnel and arrange to

enter the embassy at special times during the night. They would flist

make a close curvey and a photograph of the area in which the embascy

keeps its classified material, then they would subsequently enter this

ares and open up the safes.

"hen he no asked how this was done he

stated, "oh, combinatione to safes are not hard to acquire".

He said

that the important and difficult part of this activity 1s taking the

material out nd photographing it and then placing it exactly as 1t

was before they touched it.

JEAN DE

SECRET

HH 53199 DocId: 32343209

Page 16

---

