# docid-32304054

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10285-10066

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 109-584-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO:

SAC, MM

TITLE :

DATE: 02/04/1964

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

CC, MR, POSSIBLE PLAN, ASSASSINATE, CASTRO,

GOVERNMENT TAKEOVER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

DECLASSIFIED

House Guidelines,

August 28, 1997

Date: 10-12-2017

COMMENTS :

White

v9.1

HH

54463

DocId: 32304054

Page 1

---

## Page 2

INNOTE

PER GA'S

1i/26/91

1 • Nasca

SEONE

204064

SiE, 1iazi 6184044)

Direeter, Fal 46d- 31901)

ROSESAND • CAN WEREIN IS

AZE IRFOSHAZZON CONTAINER

x7 21270

SHORE

ADS

492-5

ECURITY

T F831:25 3m 618-91

EXCEPT

OSHERISE

Clashis taa

Bourlet 1-10-04.

Bureat

: 235

no inforsation concering "Operation

Judas®*

diserces inquiry was

ande vith Cia.

It, advised that the cryptone

vas

CiA confidentisily advised it vas not involvee

in any activity chich included

piano to assassinate Gostre.

CIA

stated that Cabon exiles in this country could have such

nad have not seen fit so infore Gad.

GIA commented that

BaRoLo Lay D

who is allegedly

cornected nich the operacion, is

well known

strong supporter of Bubart latos sho

reportedly

head

at tho Cubon Lovercent ence

SaStro 588

41500830

olso nosod that Day is closely

anti Castro loader sud

allegedly

the new governeat

CIA Davisel

would appreciatg receiving any additional

Infornation chich

night cone to

Esroan's attention

concerning

peration Judas.

The infomation recolved frea Ch

1 - 26-54

your confidential intostation and should not

Incorporated

in saterial prepared

for dissonination.

(U)

109-584

• (Anti-Fidel Castro Activities)

56lak 56

VIN: JAI

50 6 30-9

NOTR:

Captioned inforant furnished inforation

concerning

inquiry he nad

received from Adninistrative Assistant to

Congressman concerning Operation Judas.

This is plen

assassination of Castro and the

takeover of the Cuban

Governeen

chich

would be headed by Aubers Macos.

The new government

reportedly would include Manolo Ray and Eloy Gutierrer Menoyo.

It was recomended

and approvee

that ve contact CIA for intomat: un

night have

as well as interest

Is say toss la chis ageration lets

E9341

1915

APPDAD#

CIVIT. ACT

E.0. 7.12

DATZ H

CIALS TA

HH

54463

DO0Id:32304054

Page 2

---

