# docid-32295887

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10216-10163

HQ

92-2713-66

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 0SC 2107 Motel.

Cased:NW 45855 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

KENNEDY, REGIS L.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/06/1960

PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/07/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

174 45855

DocId: 32295887

Page

---

## Page 2

NO 92-36

may be future investigation needed.

The interviow with CARL IRVING NOLL is not being

reflected on a FD-302 as it will be incorporated in the substan-

tive investigation.

NEW ORLEANS

AT SHREVEPORT, LOUISIANA. Will maintain contact with

PCI PAULINE ORSE, re subject's activities in Shreveport.

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. 1) Will maintain contact with

Internal Revenue Service re the progress of their investigation

Of MARCELLO's income tax.

(2) Will maintain contact with Inmigration &

Naturalization Service, New Orleans re subject's innigration

status.

(3) Will continue efforts to develop information re

subject's activities.

INFORMANTS:

PCI BEN J. SHEAR contacted by SA REGIS L. KENNEDY,

2/26/60 and he had no information re subject.

On 2/18/60, SA L. M. SHEARER, JR. contacted PCI RAYMOND

I. ROLLING, who advised that SAll GALLO had returned to the rear

room of the Town and Country Restaurant and was probably running

a relay station for the wire service. ROLLING asked GALLO what

he was doing and GALLO said he was working for CARLOS MARCELLO.

PCI PAULINE MORSE was contacted 3/10/60 at Shreveport,

Louisiana, and advised SA DAVID P. HURLEY that on the night of

3/9/60, CARLOS MARCELLO was in Shreveport, La. at the Town and

Country Motel, 4115 East Texas, Bossier City, La.

One of the

persons to contact him that night was MERLE KIMMERLY, owner

of Sak's, Minden Road, Bossier City.

CECIL GALLASPY, Lake Charles Manager, Southern Bell

Telephone & Telegraph Co., Lake Charles (whose identity 1s being

protected at his request), on March 8, 1960, advised telephone

namber HEmlock 3-5805 is listed to the Snooper's Den, 1011 Enter-

prise Blvd.

COVER PAGE

NW 45855 DooId: 32295887 Page 2

---

