# docid-32287451

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10197-10227

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3182-1255

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: ROEMER, WILLIAM F. JR.

TO:

DIKECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/24/1970

PAGES :

5

SUBJECTS:

GAL, EUROPEAN TRAVEL, INFORMANT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

DocId: 32287451

Page 1

82

---

## Page 2

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-373

since ALEX is known to spend considerable time while in the

Chicago area at the residence of his brother in the vicinity

I cassopolis, michigan.

As set out in the body of this

report, ALEX left the U.S. June 13, 1970, and as of the

time of this report is not believed to have returned

U.s

to the

INFORMA NTS

Source

Date Contacted

CG T-1 is

Mr. ALBERT,

Building Manager,

1300 Lake Shore Drive

Chicago, Illinois

CG T-2 is

CG 7016- PC

8/18/70

7/30/70

Contacting Agent

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER, JR.

_ B*

-

COVER PAGE

DooId:32287451

Page

---

## Page 3

" Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

1-Ast chy-af-Charge, Chicago Field OfFiCe, SHELDON DAVIDSON

Report of:

Date:

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER, JR.

Office: CHICAGO

AUG 2 4 1970

Field Office File #: 92-3182

Bureau File #:

92-373

Title:

GUS ALEX

Character:

Synopsis:

ANTI- RACKETEERING

Although ALEX continues to maintain Apartment 31-B, 1300

Lake Shore Drive, with his wife SUZANNE, he has not

returned to his residence since he left

the U.s. on

6/13/70.

Information has been received that ALEX arrived

at Fuerstenfeldburck, West Germany, on 7/22/70, from

Munich.

=p-

DETA ILS :

CG T-l advised that although ALEX has not been

seen in the vicinity of the apartment building in which

he resides since early June, 1970, he continues to maintain

apartment 31-B, 1300 Lake Shore Drive.

no one has been observed in or about the apartment since

the early part of June, and that this would include ALEX's

wife,

SUZANNE, who resides therein with him.

CG T-2 advised that ALEX left the U.S. on June

13, 1970, and that he intended to visit European countries,

including Germany.

CG T-2 advised that he has no concrete

are no! to be distributed outside your agency.

This document contains neither recumendations nur conclusions or the FBI. i is the property of the fall and la loaned l, your meney, it and is contente

92-3182-1255

DocId: 32287451 Page 3

---

## Page 4

" Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-3182

idea as to the date of the return of ALEX, except that

ALEX intended to remain in Europe most of

the summer of

1970.

On July 30, 1970, the West German Federal Criminal

Police advised

that

according to a report from the Rural

Police station at Fuerstenfeldburck, West Germany, ALEX

arrived at 12 Marthabraeustrasse, in Fuerstenfeldburck, about

8 days previously.

According to this report, ALEX arrived

by taxi from Munich, West Germany, and

Errose FUEGER, the

mother-in-law of ALEX, was already staying at that address.

- 2*=

92-3182-1255

DocId: 32287451

Page

---

