# docid-32331104

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/10/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90096-10050

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2989-228

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

01/18/1966

PAGES:

24

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

IN 45964

26

DocId: 32331104

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FETT

NY 92-851

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The period of this report exceeds 90 days inasmuch

as NYO has been designated as the

Office of Origin by the

Bureau on 12/3/65.

4

The following information is not being included in

instant report inasmuch as it would most likely compromise

the informant: 41

On 12/14/65, NY 3610-C-TE advised SA CHARLES G.

DONNELLY that CHARLIE WHITE entered Surgical Hospital at

70th St. and York Ave, on Sunday, 12/5/65, as a charity

patient. He stated that CHARLIE

wanted no publicity and he

did not want anybody to know where he was; that is why he went

in as a charity patient. He stated that only he and one NAT

MODELL are the only ones who know where CHARLIE iS. He stated

that since he went in as

a charity patient, he is being handled

by doctors of the hospival and not by his own personal physician.

Informant will see him on 12/15/55, and will advised if any-

body else other than he and NAT know where CHARLIE is.U

On 12/17/65, NY 3610-C-TE advised SAS CHARLES G.

DONNELLY and PAUL G.

DURKIN that CHARLIE WHITE returned home

to his apartment in NYC from Surgical Hospital on 12/16/65.

While in the hospital, WHITE was brought food by a fellow

named JOE (LNU), who ,

at one time, was very closely associated

with either FRANK ERICKSON or JOE

ADONIS.

To date, informant

has determined that the only persons who were avare of WHITE's

presence in Surgical Hospital are himself, TOMMY NELSON and

NAT MODELL.\

HAROLD KONIGSBERG, who currently is in US Medical

center, Springfield, Missouri, was interviewed at Federal

Correctional Institute, Danbury, Connecticut, by SAS JAMES: M.

MC ANDREW and PAUL G. DURKIN on 9/19/65, and supplied the

COVER PAGE

_B-

HW 45964 DocId: 32331104 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-851

KONIGSBERG said that even though CHARLIE "The

Blade" TOURINE and GYP DE CARLO are members of the same

"family," years ago DE CARLO wanted "The Russian' killed.

"The Russian" is GEORGE VAINTRAUB,

who works with CHARLIE

in bust-out games.

However, KONIGSBERG declined to handle this

event the

wanted it to appear as if CHARLIE "The Blade"®

contract was accepted, DE CARLO

the one

who was responsible for the killing.

Supposedly, "The Russian"

was in a game where AL MONES was busted out. l

KONIGSBERG pointed out that whenever he dealt with

a person he was always attempting to cassify him as

weak or

strong.

Based on certain incidents and reputations, he

classified CARMINE TRAMUNTI, aka "Gribbs"; TONY GORALLO, aka

"Tony Ducks"

and CHARLIE TOURINE as strong, and SAM RIZZO

(DE CAVALCANTE) as being very weak.'

and

KONIGSBERG on 8/4/65, advised SASROBERT V. WALKER

PAUL G. DURKIN that JOE ZICARELLI did not become a "made

guy" in 'La Cosa Nostra" until 1955. He explained that most

likely he would have been "made"

in an earlier year; however,

GYP DE CARLO, CHARLIE WHITE (TOURINE) and LILO GALANTE were

all attempting to get ZICARELLI in their respective crews.

After much haggling, GALANTE finally won out.

KONIGSBERG

addea that ZICARELLI was actually close to all three of these

persons.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY T-1

ANN MC MANUS,

Switchboard Operator

Contacted By

SA PAUL G. DURKIN and

SA CHARLES G. DONNELLY

40 Central Park South, NYC

(by request)

NY T-2

PCI

SAS PAUL G. DURKIN and

CHARLES G. DONNELLY

COVER PAGE

- 6. -

NH 45964 DocId:32331104 Page 3

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

• :

NY 92-851

Identity of Source

NY T-3

NY 3610-C-TE

NY T-4

NY 4008-C-TE

NY T-5

NY 4457-C

NY T-6

REGINALD SMITH,

Resident Manager,

International Inn,

Washington, D.C.

(by request)

NY I-7

WF 1108-0

NY T-8

NY 3368-C-TE

NY T-S

PCI PETER K. CHACONAS

NY T-10

SAMUEL NAPLES,

(by request)

NY I-ll

WF 1308-C-TE

NY T-12

MM 934-C

NY T-13

VINCENT LOUGHLIN (Former SA)

Chief Security Officer

New York Hospital, NYC

(By request)

Contacted By

SAS PAUL G. DURKIN

CHARLES G.

DONNELLY

SA DONALD A. RIVERS

SA FRANK R. GERRITY

SA PHILIP C. LEVIS

SA PHILIP C. LEVIS

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

SA RICHARD T. MARQUISE

SA ROBERT F. VON ARSDALI

SA RICHARD A. MARQUISE

Miami Office

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

SA CHARLES G. DONNELLY

COVER PAGE

D-

NH 45964 DocId:32331104 Page 4

---

