# docid-32301703

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10038

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-4275-42.43

Released under the John

?. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

08-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/13/1976

PAGES:

15

SUBJECT:

OBA, CUBAN EXILE GROUPS, MILITARY ACTION, COSTA RICA

GOVERNMENT, INTV, SAMPOL, IGNACIO ROBERTO NOVO

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/15/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC 2 MEMO, 2 LHM

NH 53932 DocId:32301703 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

JULY

EGSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11,6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Mercorandum

CONFI

TO

Toon sh

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4275)

ENTIAL

DATE: 7/13/76

SAC, MIAMI (105-12858) (P)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IGNACIO ROBERTO NOVO SAMPOL

IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM

IS_ - CUBA

PRELIMINARY INQUIRY (Initiated 9/5/75%

6-18-97

Miami)

Re Miami letter with enclosures, dated 3/11/76.

Enclosed for the Bureau are six copies of an LHM,

dated and captioned as above.

A copy is being disseminated to INS, Miami.

MM T-1 is MM 1337-S.

MM T-2 is MM 974-S.

MIAMI

LEADS

APPROFRI,

AGENCIES

'ICES

At Miami, Florida:

2/839

Will continue investigation of captioned subject

5723494

and keep

the Bureau advised.

701.50

CIASS.

BY.

REASON

TT:

1-2

DAVE OF RIVLEM

NATION COMPAI

ASSIFIED EXCEPT

OTHERWISE.

WHERE SHOWN

57-105

REC 44

#211,326

5/309ER)

Classife

Declassity.on: DADR

718/83

Reatelense in KC-2398-27x.

N41.20/ 98

911275-42

SACLOSURE

(RM)

23 JUL 26 1976

Bureau (Enc.

Miami

RJD:ml1

(3)

/ 5.

PAGEGES

CIA

DAGCAÉU)

LODY TO USSS, LUS, STATE,

y routing slip fo

I action, 6

53 ALE

_5010-1.10

265

0 1976

CONE

NTIAL SECRET

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 53932 DocId: 32301703

Page 2

---

## Page 3

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami, Florida

July 13, 1976

4711) 105-12858

F21323

IGNACIO ROBERTO NOVO SAMPOL

5

Declassity on:

AVA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

pusses

lease in 190-23986

PRELIMINARY INQUIRY (Initiated September

1975)

NOVO SAMPOL continues to live at 1855 West 60th

Florida, and is employed as

a car salesman

at Austin Plea, Incorporated (Inc.), 3801 N. W. 27th Avenue.

MM T-1, a Cuban exile actively involved in Cuban

exile terrorist activities, on March 15, 1976, furnished the

following information:

A group of Cuban exiles living in the Miami area

have been recently meeting and discussing the possibility of

taking military action against the Government of Costa Rica.

Their discussions are based on the fact that ORLANDO/BOSCH

IVIla, a Cuban exile terrorist, at that time, was in jail in

Sosta Rica.

Among

; the persons meeting to consider action against

Costa Rica, were some of BOSCH's supporters

in Miami, Florida,

along with IGNACIO NOVO and GUILLERMO, NOVO. &

These Cuban exiles discussed the possibility of

abtaining dynamite to be used against the Costa Rican Embassy

or business establishments in the United States or some third

country.

No definite plans were made and the

time did not have access to explosives.

group at that

KLA

0422/8 s soka

conclusions of

document contains neither recommendations nor

the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is

loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

CLASS

54-8

KLAP

REASONERCT!

DATE OF REVIEW

ALL

FORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS

SOTTED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOR

THERWISE.

Sources whose identities are

concealed herein,

have furnished

reliable information in the

past, except where otherwise

noted.

97-4275 42

osthe

ENGL

CONF

INTIAL

0=10888

NH 53932

DooId: 32301703

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONN

VIENNAL

RE:

IGNACIO ROBERTO NOVO SAMPOL

of BOSCH's terrorist group, recently met with IGNACIO and

GUILLERMO NOVO, to discuss

retaliatory action to be taken

against the Government of Costa Rica.

They discussed the

possibility of bombing Costa Rican business and diplomatic

establishments outside of that country.

They said if BOSCH

terrorist action. &

a rot selecto son a fithey will be torced to take sucti

MM T-2 said he was unable to

MM T-2 on March 26, 19/6,

stated that two days

figures attended.

and GUILLERMO.

Among

those attending were the NOVO brothers, IGNACIO

The general discussion centered around the arrest

of Cuban exile revolutionary_LUIS TORNES; who was then in jail

The group decided to form a committee to

collect money for TORNES to pay for his legal fees.

The

group feared that if this Venezuelan Government put pressure

MM T-1, on May 26, 1976, advised that the Cuban

a Cuban terrorist organiza-

years, is headed by FRANKYCASTRO•XC/NUU)

FRANK CASTRO stated

wanted to hold a meeting

in the Dominican Republic to invite about five other Cuban

terrorist organizations to form a unity pact with the FLNC.

One of the groups to be invited is the Cuban Nationalist

Movement (CNM), of which the NOVO brothers are members.@

*(u)

MM T-1 advised that the FLNC had such a meeting in

the Dominican Republic between June 11, 1976 and June 13,

1976.-

As a result of this meeting,

a unity sroup was formed (7)(1)

-2

CONFIBENTIAL

1, 38

NW 53932 DooId:32301703 Page 4

---

## Page 5

- OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

2, U5A+FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

A UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4275)

COMPYDENTIAL

05RHN/HTR

SDATE: 12/14/76

5-23 gal

SEAt TISK

FROI

CIA HAS NO OBJẾCTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AGO/OR,

RELEASE OF CIANNFOR SAATION

?.Im

6-18-97

THIS DOCUMENT.

SAC, MIAMI (105-12858) (C)

ICNACIO ROBERTO NOVO SAMPOL

IS CUBA

PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION)

INITIATED 9/5/75)

(00: MIAMI)

1326

Classified by

Declassury on

Bo relessin 190-23586-

270

Re Miami letter with enclosures dated 7/13/76.

Enclosed for the Bureau are six copies of an LHM

Elated and captioned as above.

A copy is being disseminated to Immigration and

Naturalization Service (INS), Miami, Florida.

_MM T-1 is MM 1337-S.

_ MM I-2 is NK 5775-S.

The enclosed LHM is being classified confidential

because unauthorized disclosure would jeopardize sources

whose protection is required in the interest of national

security.

HAB-CD: ISS; GOS;/ STATE/CIPA/LSSS

APBIRJ

2/16/77

This classification is being exempted from automatic

downgrading because the information discloses intelligence

sources.

This IS-Cuba case is being closed inasmuch as it

does not come within the purview of the present Internal

Security criteria.

A new Meutrality Matter-Cuba case will

be opened concerning the subject.

Investigation will con-

inue and the Bureau will be advised

7-221-82

ASSIFIED RY 5668-500/GCE

CLASS & TIM. RE BRI ASKAY

ON 4/36/98

REASON PUS II, 1-2.4.8

DATE OF REVIEN 1 2014-

4.6

97-4215-43

CORRECTED FIRST PAGE

mand

APPROPRI

AND FTTED

ADVICTO

ST

DA

-

2 - Bureau (Enc.. 6) (RM)

1 - Miami

RJD: jkc

(3)

EARMATION CONTAITE

RED EXCEPT,

HERERCIS

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

6...

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings

PlaI

ENTIAL

5010-110

NH 53932

DooId: 32301703

Page 5

---

## Page 6

CONE

RE: IGNACIO ROBERTO NOVO SAMPOL

RIVERO explained that about two years ago, he met

for the first time with DIONISIO SUAREZ, but has had no

further contact with him.

RIVERO claimed that IGNACIO NOVO responds to the

activities of the CNM in the New Jersey area and is not

associated with the CNM membership and activities in the

Miami area.

MM T-2, a Cuban exile who is associated with

CNM activities in the New Jersey area, on September 24,

1976, advised that on September 16, 1976, the Russiar

ship

"Ivan Shepetkov" at Elizabeth, New Jersey, was bombed

by an explosive device.

MM T-2 felt that GUILLERMO NOVO

was behind the bombing and the possibility existed that

IGNACIO NOVO was in New Jersey during that period of time

On October 18, 1976, FELIPE RIVERO DIAZ was

interviewed by WABA,

a Spanish language radio station

in Miami.

RIVERO said that recently an article appeared

in El Nacional, a daily newspaper published in Caracas,

Venezuela.

The article alleged that IGNACIO and GUILLERMO

NOVO were involved in the assassination of the ex-Chilean

ORLANDO LETELIER, which

RIVERO stated that terrorist acts of which he

and cur members have beer aceused, stes from a book vreen

by CARLOS RIVERO COLLADO, a Cuban exile in Miami /who defected

to Cuba. in November, 1974.

RIVERO denied that he or the

NOVO brothers had anything to do with LETELIER's assassina-

tion.

(a)

CON

-3-

74 53932

DooId: 32301703

Page 6

---

## Page 7

TO

¡OPTIONA, FORM NO. 10

GSA, FPMR 141 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GO:/ ERNMENT

Memorandum CUN

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4275))

VIAL

DATE:

SEGRET

12/14/76

FROM :

MIAMI (105-12858) (C)

SUBJECT:

per

Bosssmat

I de letters set for

IGNACIO ROBERTO NOVO SAMPOL

- CUBA

PRELIVINARY INVESTIGATION

NITIATED 9/5/7597

00.:

p(n)

Re Miami letter with enclosures dated 7/13/76.

Enclosed

for the

Bureau are six copies of an LHM

dated and captioned

as above.

A

copy is being

Naturalization

Service

(INS), Miami, Florida.

I sammated or Ian eration s

quie

MM T-1 is MM

1337-5.

*

MM T-2 is NK

5775-5.

The enclosed

• LHM

to better protect sources

is being classified confidential

of continuing value.

This IS-Cuba

casejis being closed inasmuch as it

does not come within the purview of the present Internal

Security criteria.

A new Neutrality Matter-Cuba case will

be opened concerning the subject.

tinue and the Bureau

will be advised.

Investigation will con madfucke

#0211; 326

on 4/0/18 5 50ka

NO OTO OTOXOTOTOTO

ENCLOSURE

EX-105 g: 12

Classifieday

Declassify on: DADA 215/83

pellaze.in 190-23938e

REC- 13

neve

Bureau (Enc. 6) (RM) •

Miami

RUD: jkc

(3).

CLASS,

•EXT. BY DA

REASON-FCTAL TI,

1-

CA.2

DATE OF REVIEN 12 / 4

47-4275-43

BA DEC 23 1976

96

FALNFORMLATION CONTAINED®

HEREL

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

14

2 119774

F.4C

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds f

MAroll Seine Plan

NH 53932

DocId: 32301703

Page 7

---

