# docid-32339771

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90151-10016

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-110975-18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO : HQ

. TITLE :

DATE

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/30/1962

2

ALINE MOSBY

SOVIET AGENT SOURCE FOR POLITICAL INFORMATION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 45886 DocId: 32339771 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ADE INFORMATION CONJAINED

POLASSIFIED

SHOWN

OTHERWISE

3/13/95

Closerva

854

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104

UNITED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum sECRE

•DIRECTOR FBI (105-110975)

DATE:

11/30/62

SAC, WPO (65-8659)(P)

SUBJECT:

_UNSUB; SOVIET AGENT

SOURCE OF POLITICAL INFORMATION

WHO IS A CORRESPONDENT IN THE

WASHINGTON, D. C•, AREA

ESP

- R

Mile

ReBulet

to-WFO,. captioned

Relet refers to information furnished by PSI

(whose' identity is to be kept confidential) ascertaining

attempted compromise of ALINEVOSBY, a United Press Inter-

national (UPI) correspondent in Moscow. ReBulet points out i

that ALINE MOSBY has been considered a possible suspect in

instant case, and that the possibility exists that the soviet

activity succeeded in such conpromise efforts.

ReBulet instructs present assignment of Miss MOSBY

be ascertained.

The above-mentioned PS]

who is a newspaper-s

employed at UPI, advised. SA. TOLLEF JACOBSON on 11/25/62, CS-

that the instance previously described by him'in which the

Russians attempted to compromise ALINE MOSBY-presumably

occurred some time

within approximately the last 6 months

a year, inasmuch as, according to

transferred from her UPI assignment at Moscow

ago,

as a result of the instance referred to

hant 6 months

saiazs

Miss MOSBY, at that time, was transferred from Moscow to

Paris, France, and he knows she is still in Paris, because he

has recently

seen her byline on a news story emanating from

that city:

In view of the above information concerning the

whereabouts of ALINE MOSBY,

no further consideration is being

given to her as a possible, suspect in instant case,

En asmuch

as the unsub is understood to be located in the Washington,

Do Co area.

Bureau

REG- 33

-WFO:

(1 105-) 905) (GEORGI."

1S DEC 4 1962

-(1-734 4659) Sub A)CS

TJ: emw

10 DEC 101362

(5)

SECRED

copy. 647 RB

91,498

• CLASSIFIED 84566XS1

DECLASSIFF ON: 25X

OTHER 1b,

1c

H₩ 45886 DocId: 32339771

Page 2

---

