# docid-32317430

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/3/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10353-10167

RECORD SERIES: LA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-113C-271

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LA.

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/09/1963

' PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

JOHN ROSELLI (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER; TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32317130

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107 Hotel?

DATE: 11-14-2017

AIRTEL

19/9/63

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

FEGISTERED

TO :

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-1130)

JOHN ROSELLI, aka

LA 4396-C* advised that ROSSELLI has not resided

at his Los Angeles apartment during the past week and has not

been at the apartment since 8/28/63, when he went to las

Vegas, Nevada, with ALBERT FOLEY.

LA 4268-C advised that he has not observed ROSSELLI

at the Friar's Club in Beverly Hills, California, for about

one week.

The Las Vegas Office advised that as of 9/4/63

ROSSELLI was still registered at the Desert Inn Hotel in

Las

Vegas, however, he had not been observed in the hotel

for two days and that one ALBERT FOLEY, who registered at

hotel on 8/28/63, gave his

address as 3669 0l0 Shell Road,

Mobile, Alabama:

The Mobile address would indicate that ALBERT

FOLEY 1s the Jesuit Priest from Spring Hill College, Mobile,

Alabama.

on 8/31/63 ROSSELLI received a telephone call at the

Desert Inn Hotel,

from a Miss G. LOWELL at telephone number

HO 6-3441, Hollywood, California.

This is the telephone number

of Martoni Italian Restaurant, Hollywood, California.

M183

G. LOWELL 18 probably Miss GERALDINE LOWELL, who endeavored

to locate ROSSELLI In Las Vegas on 8/28/63.

• Bureau

) = Los Angeles

HFD : joc

(4)

FBI LA

# OF XEROX COPIES Z

DATE 3151 INITIALS glu

AIRTEL

DocId: 32317430 Page 2

S0/22'=0

SLA ALIZED

FILED

02-113C-07981

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel?

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-1130

ROBERT W. LINDSAY, General Manager, Half Moon Inn,

San Diego, California, advised that MAURICE FRIEDMAN and a

large party were registered in two suites at this Inn from

0/22 - 25/63 and

that ROSSELLI was present in this group.

On 9/4/63 LA 4268-C advised that BEN WOHLSTADER,

a member of the Friars Club, showed informant a photograph

of ROSSELLL, FRIEDMAN JACK BARENFELD and MARTY GOODMAN, each

with a girl firend seated at a table. WOHLSTADER SaId the

photograph was taken the previous week at Del Webb's Ocean

House, San Diego, California, on the occasion of the celebration

of his, WOHLSTADER's, 30th wedding anniversary. The San

Diego Office 1s being requested to endeavor to obtain some

of the photographs through the photographer who took them.

-

DocId: 32317430

Page 3

---

