# docid-32357018

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10103-10153

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

Released under the John

f. kennedy

4880381n8t1on records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) •

Case# :NIT 53294 Date:

06-13-2017

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: WALLER, JOHN.

TO

: BUSH,

GEORGE

TITLE

: DRAFT TO GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT

DATE

: 09/22/1976

PAGES

: 32

SUBJECTS : DEMOHRENSCHILDT

CLASSIFICATION

DASSIFYCATION : SACRE

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENR STANS RALEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

07/22/93

JFK36: F27: 1993.07.22.08:36:17:750530

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10103-10153

HH 53294

DocId: 32357018

Page

---

## Page 2

from

TRANSMITTAL SLIP DATE (_2" SEP 197E

TO:

Mr. Bush

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

Ens-utius Revielty,

Kamiaher

76

The attached suggested draft to

Mr. De Mohrenschildt was written without

knowledge,gf the flavor of your personal

relationship with him.

The tone may not

be appropriate, but the message boils

down to the fact that neither CIA nor

the FBI appear to have been interested

in Mr De Mohrenschildt for a number of.

years.

This draft was coordinated with OGC

on 22 Sep.

Jonn Waller

45 citzeros - den"

FROM:

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

EXTENSION

FORM NO 241

1FE8 55

(17))

WHICH MAY BE USED.

MH: 53294 DocId:32357018 Page 2

---

## Page 3

É UNCLASSIFIED..

INTERNAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD

• SHEE

COYE "ENTIAL

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Mr. George de Mohrenschildt

FROM:

John H. Waller

Inspector

General

2 E 24 Hqs. Bldg.

EXTENSION

6565

R-1252

TO: (Officer designalion, room number, and

DATE

building)

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEiVED

FORWARDED

1.

SECRET

INSPECTOR SEVERA

76-3000

ĐC1

ROOM: 7 E. 12

NO.

DATE

COMMENTS (Number each commons lo show from shom

to whom.

Draw a lina aeross column after caci comment.)

This is the response to the

letter

from de Mohrenschildt

that you gave me a few days ago.

4.

?.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORMA

3-62

DiD USEDITONSUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL, L

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

NN 53294: DocId:32357018 Page 3

---

## Page 4

7 - 5157/1

SECRET

22 SEP 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Director of Central Intelligence

John H. Waller

Inspector General

: Mr. George de Moirenschilit

Mr. de Mohrenschildt's letter to you,

dated 5 September 1976

Action Required:

None.

This memorandum is for your information.

•We have also

attached at A a suggested draft reply to Mr. de Mohrenschildt's letter.

Action Taken:

2. We have reviewed DDO and IG files on Mr. de Mohrenschildt.

addition,

at our request, the CI Staff has run Agency traces on him and

has been in touch with the FBI as well.

Findings:

3. There is voluminous material.on Mr. de Mohrenschildt in CIA

files, most of it dating from the post-Kennedy assassination period

when he testified before the Warren Commission on his acquaintance

with Mir. and firs. Lee Harvey Oswald. (A copy of the de Mohrenschildis'

testimony is attached at B.)

The bulk of the material in our files consists of FBi reports,

the most recent of which is dated i967.

The FBI has informed CIA that

it has no traces on Mr. de Mohrenschildt beyond that date; our files

contain all of its previous material on him.

SEGRET

E2,

IMPDET

CL

BY 055636

NN 53294 Docid:32357018 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

5.

Mr. Helms' 3 June 1964 memorandum for the Warren Commission on

the de Mohrenschiidts is attached at C.

it describes the Agency's

interest in obtaining

reports from Mr. de Mohrenschildt in 1957 as a

result of his sojourn in Yugoslavia that year.

Contaci Division (now

Domestic Coliection Division - DCD) had its resident agent in Dallas,

Mir. J. Walton Moore, contact Mr. de Mohrenschiidt at that time.

history of Mr. Moore's relationship with Mr. de Mohrenschildt from 1957

to 1961 is also attached at C.

As a routine matter, Mr. Moore requestec

traces on Mr. de Mohrenschildt. • The trace results (attached at D con-

tained sufficient derogatory information to preclude further extensive

contact with the de Monrenschildts.

(An OS summary on Mir. de Mohrenschildt

prepared in response to the current request is also attached at D.)

6. Our files show that a mail cover was placed on letters addressed

to Mr. de Mohrenschildt c/o the U.S. Embassy in Haiti from about 1964 to

1966. (This was probably not uncovered at the time of the external in-

vestigations.) This included opening and photographing the contents of

some letters by the CIA Station there. The results of this operation

were shared with the FBI.

Mr. de Mohrenschildt came to the attention of this office during

the Rockefeller Commission investigations.

We were asked to respond to a

memorandum submitted to the Commission by Mr. Paul Hoch entitled "CIA

Activities and the Warren Commission Investigation."

Mr. Hoch called for

an identification of Mr. J. Walton Moore's employment affiliation

asked what Mr. Moore knew about Oswald and what he may have told Mir. de

Mohrenschildt about him.. Our reply to the Rockefeller Commission

attached at E.

The most recent information we have.on Mr. de. Mohrenschildt. comes

from Mr. J. Walton Moore who was contacted in May and July 1976 by writers

connected with the Reader's Digest, and with the Dial Press and the Dell

Publishing Company.

Both writers questioned Mr. Moore about Oswald and

Mr. de Mohrenschildt. Mir. Moore's reports on these contacts are attached

Conciusions:

Mr. de Mohrenschildt appears to have lead an adventurous and

colorful life as a petroleum engineer

and businessman.

He is both well

- 2 -

SECRET

TH 53294 DocId: 32357018 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET.

and poorly connected, and some of his associations in the past have

raised serious questions.

Certainly his relationship with the

Oswalds has caused him considerable trouble and may have caused this

Agency and the FBI to spend more time and energy. on him in the past

than was necessary.

10.

Both the FBI and this Agency, however, had dropped their

interests in Mr. de Mohrenschildt's activities by the mid-to-late

1960's.

We speculate that any attention he is now receiving could

either be from local authorities in Dallas or from media representa-

tives on the trail of a warmed over story concerning the assassination

of President Kennedy:

We offer no proof of this conjecture beyond

Mr. Moore's reporis attached at F.

What we can say is that we have

found

no

indication that either CIA or the FBI has taken any active

interest in Mr. de Mohrenschildt in recent years.

/ Son H

Waller

Attachments:

A thru Fa/s

AT 119 su

5 85 98

- 3 -

SECRET

28 53 0 360012

33

MN 53294 DocId: 32357018 Page 6

---

## Page 7

NH 53294 DocId: 32357018 Page 7

---

## Page 8

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

Execut de dregistry

26-51500

28 September 1976

Mr. G. de Möhrenschildt

2737 Kings Road

Apartment 142

Dallas, Texas 75219

Dear George:

Please forgive the delay in my reply to your September 5th letter.

It took time to explore thoroughly the matters you raised.

Let me say first that I know it must have been difficult for you

to seek my help in the situation outlined in your letter.

I believe I

can appreciate your state of mind in view of your daughter's tragic

death a few years ago and the current poor state of your wife's health.

I was extremely sorry to hear of these circumstances.

In your situation, I can well imagine how the attentions you

described in your letter affect both you and your wife.

However, my

staff has been unable to find any indication of interest in your

activities on the part of Federal authorities in recent years.

The

flurry of interest that attended your testimony before the Warren

Commission has long since subsided. I can only speculate that you

may have becone "newsworthy" again in view of the renewed interest

in the Kennedy assassination and, thus, may be attracting the atten-

tion of people in the media.

I hope this letter has been of some comfort to you, George,

although I realize I am unable to answer your question

completely.

Thank you for your good wishes on my new job.

As you can imagine,

I'm finding it interesting and challenging.

Very truly yours,

Director

25650 2 7054:12

23

IN 53294 DocId: 32357018 Page 8

---

## Page 9

15 53294 DocId: 32357018 Page 9

---

## Page 10

MICROFILNED

•APR ?

1969

DOC. MICRO. GER.

SEGRET

38

•CiA info on Da Mahrenschildts

and sent to Warren Commission

MEBIORANDUS EOR: DI. I LOSRRDALA

Gosoral covaso

Basicgabo Caxaxaiosien 0x ?3;

Smaaslaados d Erahon Keany

5U335CT

GeDsga Anê 30a32 De BOHARDT

1. Rufaneço io mado ts yous tasmarauesa di 3i Marca

196% rogsantiog ay lufortaiico de Gaargo dhá Jacoat Da

MOHAENSCHLDT LẠG IO AYALUNE LA CH MAS. OUE 10S07

Huom thai deo filin contis caport tecsiagd fros ehar Y.5.

Jorarasn agascias, primasily tho VD1. 1I Wel 2010302i-

tazabida devzionnd by this Aguasy 1o1757 and 1755,. Tas

ceTli» alto porincil roiores to inosmarad lA Mò Tocoria

Di sho Chariiaaçãs si Informatido asd tha Cúfca oi Stratezia

Servicoz, accordiag to fuo cexozds di thosa ageusi7, C20rga

DE MCHRENSCHLL DT hIG MABA CINSláOTĐS I05 CHDO ETI E

IÊN EEC DONGI HOR HU SEAGHEG HEIT TOK t1 gn •xI

sepionaji agaai, No infareation derelsion by CLA fur ila

PreteNIDrD) beroze the ascasaination df Pxealdza: Erasens

bad catabliabad aay laS DaLNMDN iE 2e ZOHRENSCULDIS

and ICa HarUty OSVALD DI Eto lumily-.

z.

CIA'S inica lAmAt iN GEOrgO DE MORRENSCHELOS

seuslagsi es E cosols ef bis sojoura is Fugoslasia ix 1937 27

besall'of toa latemadiunas Coppuration Aganoy (1Ci). In des

COnneciOn LIA HAHHgHST0TA FEDÒ A TONEA CÃTIEOTT E01

DAllaS ISPECSZALÁNR WhO LILOS DE L0 DO MOHRENSCULLDIS

ia tba eaily part ol Desmiber 1957. Ix zha cousze ol'sonaral

•sanetinas lào ClA represtaialio, obtaiard forsiga intallizaace

vatà mas proroptly dlercalaatãd lo oior lodarai ageaciea i

Is DEDTaO IOpU ThE BAlA TEDTOSANLL ContiAUS

|201-725:439

DD242220

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVDIVEO

XAAZ-17376

2: Tume 196st

summarized

r.el.

-SECHET

CROW &

Exclusad trora aslocali:

Ceingrädlug aud

cociassilicarias

Jen 64

NH 53294 DocId:32357018 Page 10

---

## Page 11

(

-SEBIET

WAT TING NOT.CE

SENSITIE SOURCES ÄND

METHODS INMOHTED

intsomal, cscocloaal cobias with te De MorRansuiLeTa

Lni Tna B2EEUaS df 196%

Ars ling bos uesh tham siaza doas tirra,

alshougà ha raccived o sarisizas cozd trom ies Suriag êes

holidoy earisd falesing Cha 005735708

Da đao 23sà oã 20i de Moyaaeaz 1955, Bitar B

asstisisatos, ose jepratanatiss is Dalas eecaivaà z tta-

pârosa call frasa cha dl his essinasa was told bisa bat sov9ral

mann i bia laa hai aiabed + ai2 c03 1ee93

BEDD in JaNaLy 1763 S23 22% 192 HATY OSWAiD Isê 2isa

bara 1m. Oue reptotaniadts Iawadily 3arngs 0r e

7372 Ipalad En bcgabas. 1 vad lade 30ea6alad 2om

tha 3Bi, anú Iropa est sí ous Dus s0u5tas, taat Croxga D

MOHAENSCELLDI, uaa pIstr st the mosdag nou bad laira

AHCÀ DSHAD TO BO ENS

D$ MONS ENSUELLOIO ENi te OSHALDS was FHrddos tii

Mes, toc in Dacamàa 19ó3 Whin 12 sa Maportn (0c Sait

thas ta D» MiOERENSoRALOIs has sppaaros at Ba Babaary

aad tolsetrazdà iaíezzoatico aies zani rolaslontais vich soo

CSUHOH A0 GOH 9n 1De Di MGla 29

+O À KTET

meni agamins bagagod la laroslgaiing (4595a951a245

Duclag sào contad' tle GroRgs Do MICHRESCDT

Jaza 1a 1957 anl eaiy 1933, his bacigasid vao larestigazao,

Masizias paoiesó 1 eossidarabie aaauas si iniozaaiios abous

hin aod bio natiritios, tueluding abagadlons bai duing wortà

Tay Il La bad cajagad la ospiozaga actailaa da beball os t

Mezia; tai ha tras a cherabyy oi ths Ganoocalst Pastgi ans that

AIT NUA EETERTITISO FÃRAE SHETIEdIENA KEN EY +0A +47 20S9

U.S.S.R, The iassubigadon was aizadoù t Balgien 7045D

COOZIO DE LIO QANSCAILOT MaLOEÀ D0 20ND LYC TOE 1739

noill 1936. Hls miczalbad bacagroond bod his mos, 1a g

JenIaint ber0 EDRÜMesd toro. Ons Iorord dfatroas soms

2o ligia; on 1 lúanessoas 1931 ho mas sentanect Dy tho Trlbussl

Carzocllacsal at Animoso io clgbe dsyo is petasa os caasgas of

=?,=

SEGRET

53294 DocId:32357018 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SEGRET-

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

repiadag a polies Quicar Bad to cigbt daya tapalabsoal 851

Datas. Soneco waz 975p2adsd pende completos de troem

Dis Lood mariam 0i bis baol 2550. 1202278 13 597291 28

origiosas Buazias, to Polis, Susciso, Dasiah 224 Gerar

Thase apassa to bo 50270r51043 06 ala anotbara maisa sassa:

IR

DO MONAENSOTILDIS.

Os 17 Mares 19tà sha 737 Praiabei to this Ageasy *

BOA SAKER LEDE MORRERENDE ESSES01-344678

Babalazlua, D. Ce in 1216. In the 102a% Xurt (Guarge) Da

C0AeS55137

GARANIN Dis =ocorda dhos taa: 17 has bera & rosear Da 2b2.

setrod in Ciba 1s 1923; azar World Wi? 38 ha aiso darrad la tha

U.S.: Hungart 2si Elalasa. Accozing to sur recorda, ia is

Stalo Saenelay Saxmiss hãa airo bao0 known to Ba IRI

You may 2is sish to mane Loga rios ai tho Outro ci

Diaval Inialligoneo; tda Assistais Chisi of Stal, Iorelligas#.

Espartaaai di tha Army, teo Iaparimaat of Stata, aos tha Civil

IDON 210U GOSTES DO MONSENSCHLOT.

Distribation:

Orig. i l - Adüresses

2 - DDP

1- C/CI/RiA

2 - C/CI/SIG

I - C/WB/3

1 - CI/RZA/Hartinan

X-CI/R8A/202 ES SOP/-SCHEF

Po Ton Diaz

Richara 1147703

Rapity Dizoesor 105 71278

3 Jun 64

201-725439

IN 53294 DocId: 32357018 Page 12

---

## Page 13

MET

OSE TIGIG

Acting Chiel, Contact Division

• (Diract)

¿ Support

Dallas Resideat Agency

MICHOFIMED

•APR 7 1969

law Casa 43259

DOC. MICRO. SER.

REF

headquartarg Meno 20 Ap5 64

• Details of J. Walter MOORE's contact with George

De Mohrenschildt From 1957 to 1961. (MOORE fram

00/ Contacts!

Dallas office

I lnos knowa-Gaorge do Bomenschilde and his vite since 1957.

My Iatoat actual contact sith the was in to fall of 1961, although I

receivsà a Chrismas car fros thea coring Christaas of 1953- The esro

Ballad fre part princa and a copy dad tant in artachai-

A Duncanville,

CIT-USA acc-businessman

20

After our lata Frasident's assassiation, either

on the

0 2463 0f Hormlar 1953, I raceired a telepbora call Ires Dx. Paul

reichemz, Dirsctor of the Jocony hobil Research Laboratory at Discanville,

Dr. Reichertz advised that zeabera of his staif haù attended sone

kind of social or discassion grop in January 1953 at which Les Harvar

No mention sas made at this tino di George de Mobren-

schildt.

I told Di. Roichertz he should report this inforsation to tha

zocal offico of the EBI and be replied that he knex no cha

in tha ballas

office d the Fil and asted if I ucald pass the information giong for his.

I called the fil and thay said thay would send seabody out to talk to :

Pr. Reichert. I nado no effort to follos up on the natter with. Paul

seichert since I falt it was none of by businiss but during = visit

siza Maryaan DuBBad;

•Lit Librarianet Sceony Habil Research Labiano al

goos

of pine for many years, she auvised that the had haamd that

de Hobronschizat had befriedid Gasald after ais arrival ia ballas asl

had introiced him to a study areup.or the USSR.

siT USA esc-librarian !

Texas

ADancanillay Extra Contact with do lohrenschilt mis the result of

à scurco lazd Iron headguarters,

dated 22 Noy 57, adviaing that George

le Hobressabilat ind recantly raturnad to Dallas after sperding approxi-

Butely a gear in lugoslavia on a job lor ¿be iCão I calied on de Huhras

schilet in carly Decenber

1957 and subaltted is nant chock, dated 6 Dec 57.

HobrenaChilit gave he a copy of

standarde personal history

15 37, blen ate considorabla biographic data, which I sa enclosing.

ROSHAED (801-259245)

Doc. Gentains second-hand knowledge & Dr. ParbriElL

REICHERTE

and Maryann DUEGAN, bath of Sacery Mobil

101-725439

HIw

CS COPY

580.-88-7 3i1160

TH 53294 DocId: 32357018 Page 13

---

## Page 14

At this tina I saw and sor lirs. Jar de conrenschildt, a shite fusaian

enioras iron Sanghai.

i saw the do Mohronschildt's seysral tinas

in 1953

and 1959- In late 1959 or early 1980, Mr. and Mrs. da Hobrenschilst sent

on an 19 month biking trip through merico and Censral America.

An ascobat

cù this trip, as taken isor the 28 Oct 61 issue of tha Dallas Tines Herald,

is enclosed.

It tha lay of a personal essessaent, I hould say that tha

do Noirenachilit's ara in interasting and unusual coupla.

This is, I

baliova, tha second purriago for both of thes.

Hrs. de Kohrenschilds,

who has bean a successl dras dasignas, has a broin sarrie daughter,

who is quite a fine artiat George da Monsenschilt has sayaral childran

hy his first viis (reportadly a vary wealthy ono now living in the

Middla Last). One at bla chilaran dis of cystic fibrosis and Georga

de sohranschildt has always bein very active in tha yearly cystic fibrosin

furi raisisg campaiga

5-

George de dohresschilde makes a god: apparcases.

Не Їз

atout six foet tall. and baigha arcus 190 pousda.

For a ban his 228,

approxisataly 53, he leaps biasale in goci condizion and lo a bit ol a

physical ritanas nut. le is a nocorato drinker and when I lost sas

hin, sooked a pipe. I would dascribe his persocality as frandly and out

going although I have heard his raisrael to 23 cracaited. No reputadly

has an eys for tha ladies zol I understand his intarost doas Bot go

unreciprocata. He ledda a seawhat uncomantional Lite, days tomis

at 5 o'close lu the morning, ha is rather outopoken, has a kean interest

in intarsational affairs and in sozial justico.

By local conserativa

stardardo, ho voli be considared a libaral file putlook ca 11fa le

continantat

6-

Do liohrenschilds is fairly wall know in petroloua circles

I only know of cho good friend of bis. This is (Cold Livienes

For Latre who to in the bit teasing tuatnass. The codened ana i

both pjay hundball, lo mentioned dea last tiao i sar him that do soma.

schildt vanto hia to cora to finiti to balp hia run a plantation and

organice a coupany there.

I belicya that tha de Mohrenschildis let

for liairi in abouù February of 1953 but I as very vague on this polat

If there is any alditional information I can furnish, pleasa lat as tron,

CIT-USA orc-businessman: A Dallas,

Gued Fed and bather nette of brong.

D-MOHRENSCHILDT (201-725439)

Sa GALTON MCORE

Enclosuras

as stated abora.

201-725439

dyer 2"

HU 53294 DocId:32357018 Page 14

---

## Page 15

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 16

when Filled In)

DATE

INTEROFFICE MENORANDUM

13 Augast 1958

TO:

FROM:

Chief, Contact Division, 00

Chief, Personnel Security Division, 'OS

SUBJECT:

de MCHPENSCH ILUT, George

AKA:

von HCHRENSCH ILDT, George Sergius

von MORENSCHINDI, JErzy

#775-

1. Reference is made to your request for a security clearance

person as a potential source of intelligence information.

The necessary checks have

been completed with the following results:

No additional information has been obtained, except for such

biographic information as indicated below or in the attachment.

b. I Information has been received that subject was investigated with

favorable results in

c• [

Certain information has been received and appears in the attachment

which your Division will wish to consider in determining the extent

and level of your use of Subject.

2.

It is to be noted that our checks were made on the basis of the identifying

information you furnished or in an attachment to this memorandum.

Should it be dis

closed that this information is erroneous or that Subject is know. by a different name,

this Division should be notified immediately.

Tratt

H. Ma Knott

Chief, Personnel Securitf Division

Attachment:

Summary

Bobton

DISAPPROVED-U

THIS CATEGORY IS ASSIGHED EY INDEX

FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY. THE

FIELD • CHifF

DETER ViliNES

LEVEL

CLASSIEED

DISCLOSURE.

se

64 433

Isi

EVES 0WS7

#1622

SEP

SIES OMY

FORM NO. 1124

8 8:04 56

COMFIDENTIAL

53294 DocId:32357018 Page 16

---

## Page 17

$775

Subject was investigated by Federal Agencies in 1941, 1942,

1945, 1947, and 1957.

The investigation reports as well as the

files of other Federal Agencies reflect the folloring:

Between 1940 and 1942 Subject was considered to be

pro-German and suspected of being a German prozagandise and

an espionage agent.

Several informants staied that Subject was in sympathy

with the Communist form of government in Russia but knew of no

un-American activities on the part of Subject. One informant

advised in 1947 that Subject had definite Communistic tenden-

cies.

Investigations failed to produce any legal competent

evidence or witnesses to substantiate the raports that subject

had been pro-fomunist or pro-Nazi.

Majority of informants consider Subject to be eccentric,

irresponsible; conceited, an adventurer fond of exaggeration, and

overly aggressive.

Subject has been knon to associate with persons o

questionable loyalty, reputation, and moral character.

Subject, when interviewed, admitted that he tends to exag

gerate

and advised that he thought the Commnist form of govern.

ment of loviet Russia was the better form of government on tha.

European continent, and that he had a great admiration for the

Communistic form of government, but that that did not prevent

him from having a stronger feeling of loyalty to the government

of the United States.

#1622

CONFDENTAL

HH 53294 DocId: 32357018 Page 17

---

## Page 18

Gorge DE MOHRENSCHILDT

From the Office of Security

CIA CONNECTION:

DE MOHRENSCHILDT was security disapproved for OSS employ:

ment on 18 July 1942 because he was suspected of being a Nazi

agent.

On 13 August 1958 derogatory information was furnished

the Contact Office who was interested in interrogating him as

an alien contact.

His second wife, Phyllis whom he married on

11 July 1948.and divorced 29 December 1949, was employed as a

receptionist by a covert project (NCFS) Exom 1950 to 14 January

1951 when her employment was terminated:: (Reason not given.)

Subject's brother,

Dimitri S. VON MOHRENSCHILDT, was

approved on 11 April 1950 for exploitation

as a contact

for

foreign intelligence purposes on a limited basis; not to receive

classified information above confidential

OS INDICES RESULTS:

OS Files on Subject,

his second wife, and his brother

reflect use by the Agency as set out above.

Subject was

investigated by the FBI in 1941, 1942, 1945,

1947 and 1957.

Between 1940 and 1942 Subject was considered to be pro-German

and suspected of being a German propagandist and an

espionage

agent.

Several informants stated that Subject was in sympathy

with the Communist form of government in Russia but knew

no un-American activities on the part of Subject.:

One

infor-

mant advised in 1947 that Subject had definite Communistic

tendencies.

However, investigations failed to produce any

legal competent evidence or witnesses to substantiate the

reports that Subject had been pro-Communist or pro-Nazi.

The

majority of informants consider Subject to be eccentric,

Irresponsible, conceited, an adventurer fond of exaggeration

and

overly aggressive.

He has been known to associate with

persons of questionable loyalty, reputation and moral character.

Subject has admitted that he tends to exaggerate and stated

that he thought the Conmunist form of government of Soviet

Russia was the better form of government on the European

HH. 53294:

DocId: 32357018 Paye 18

---

## Page 19

continent; that he had a great admiration for the Communist

of government but

that this admiration did not prevent him

from having a stronger feeling of loyalty to the government of

the United

States.

A New York Times item for 12 December 1966 mentioned that

George DE MOHRENSCHILDT has been acquainted with Jacqueline

KENNEDY's father,

John BOUVIER, and mother, Mrs. Hugh AUCHIN-

CLOSS, since Mrs. KENNEDY was

a girl.

The DE MOHRENSCHILDT'S

were quoted is saying they were perhaps the only persons in

the world to have known the families of both President KENNEDY

and OSWALD.

- 2-

WY 53291 DocId: 32357018 Paye 19

---

## Page 20

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 21

WUNGLASSIFIEU

SUBJECT: (Oplional)

FROM:

Inspector General

Koom 2E24 Hqs.

TO: (Oñcer designalion, room number, and

building)

1.

OGC

2-

.LY

ROUTING AND RECORD

3 SHEES

14161

Hoch/Warren Commission Paper

EXTENSION

6565

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

179

GUNC

NO.

DATE

28 April 1975

COMMENTS (Number rach commend lo shore fiom whom

to whom.

Diane o line across column after each comment.)

The attached documents are

submitted for review and clear-

ance to the Presidential

Commission investigating the

CIA. Please return, unmarked,

to the Inspector General as soon

as possible. Space for concur

rence is provided below.

This paper MUST be ready for

release to the Commission by

noon 28 April.

6.

10.

1-10

I concur in the release of the

attached documents to the

Presidential Commission.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-82

HANDCARRY

11 PA USE PREVIOU

OITION

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL. L

INTERMAL

USE ONLY

[ UNCLASSIFIED

ны.

53294

DocId: 32357018 Page 21

---

## Page 22

10

Was J. Walton Moore connected with CIA? Was he connected

with the Oswald case?

Answer:

Mr. J. Walton Moore was employed by CIA in the Contact Division

office in Dallas during the early 1960's. His only contact

with the Oswald

case prior to the assassination is recorded in

his 1 May 1964 memorandun to the Acting Chief, Contact

Division, attached at Tab 8 la typed version of the document

is also

attached because of the poor legibility of the

original).

He may have been involved in the Agency's effort to

support the Warren Commission during the Commission's investi-

gations.

Mr. Moore has stated that he was never asked by Mr.

de Mohrenschildt for advice concerning Oswald.

We find no

indication that there was ever any contact between Oswald and

MI. Mooxe.

13

SEPRETASIAS

WINE

WH: 53294 DocId: 32357018 Page 22

---

## Page 23

•

53294 Docid:32357018 Page 23:

---

## Page 24

6-42-021

717384

Midany

DAL-83-76

Chief,

Domestic Collection Division

Chief of Operations

14 July 1976

198073

198026 i

Russell of Dial Press. Concerning, Dallas Field

Office Association with Lee Harvey Oswald and George deMohrenschildt

16-08-93

6-82-71

On the evening of 13 July 1976, at about 2100, Mr. Richard

Russell of the Dial Press and the Dell Publishing

Company, came by

He advised that he was working on a book on the Kennedy

assassination and that he understood I was a friend of George

He wanted to know if I had ever met Lee haryey Oswald

or if de ohrenschildt. had ever suggested that I should see Oswald.

I told him no on both counts and advised that I have not seen or

talked with George delorenschildi since the fall of 1961.

BEENEL

Mr. Russell attempted to draw me into discussion of the

Kennedy assassination which I avoided and wanted to know if I could

give him the name of the chief of the CIA office in Mexico City in

1963.I told him I could not, and he said he could probably get the

I do not foresee any adverse publicity

as a result of Hir. Russell's visit but felt that it should be made a

J. WALTON MOORE

JRM/ jb

16320n4

E2 IMPDET CL BY 003820

NN 53294 Doeld: 32357018 Page 21

---

## Page 25

TO

TIN

FROM

SUSJECT:

CATIONAL FORN. NO. 10

MIY 102 COITIEN

CGA FANA (1 CEM) 159-11.0

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

6-82-21

DAI-69-76

:.

Chief, Dorestic Collection Division

: Chief of Operations

DATE:

21 May 1976

: Chief, Dallas Field Office

A68221

Inquiry from Reader's Digest Concerning Dallas Field Office Association

with Lee Harvey Osvald and

George

deronrenschitat

A10895

197588.

50-97

1. On 19 May 1976, Pem Butler,,

a research vriter for Reader's Dikest,

called

on the listed line.

She identified herself as being with the

Reader's Digest and said she was doing research for a bool being written

by Harty 'Epstein on the Kernedy assassination.

She asked if I had ever

talked to ox met lee Harvey Oswald. I told her I had not.:

She then asked

if I had talked to George delohrenschildt about Lee Harvey Oswald. After

I told her that I would not discuss the matter, she said that she under-

stood fxom deMolrenschildt that I had talked to him after he had returned

fron a trip to lugoslavia.

I neither confixned nor denied this, and I told

her again I would not discuss the subject.

2.: I do not. know if lis. Butler actually talked to delohrenschildt

or not since the information she had could have been acquired from the

Warren Commission Report.

Macaulion .

E2 JIPDET CL BY 003820

-H 53294 DocId: 32357018 Page 25.

---

## Page 26

Int 53291 DocId:32357018 Page 26

LIN HOME ON

FORM:

8071. 329T

PLEASE RETURN TO

"OFFICE

NAME -

TUBE STATION

ROOM. NO: AND BUILDING

PLEASE DESTROY

FORM 329

8-71

---

## Page 27

DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

I do know this man DeMohrenschildt.

I first men him in the early 40'3. He was

an uncle

to: my Andover roommate.

Later he surfaced in Dallas~ (50's maybe)

Ile got involved in some controversial

dealings

in Haiti.

Then he surfaced when

Oswald

shot to

prominence. He knew

Oswald before

assassination of

Pres. Kennedy.

I don't recall his role in all this.

At one

time he

had /or spent plenty of

money.

I have

not heard from him for many years until

the attached letter came in.

GB 9-17

\ HE. 53294

Docid:32357018 Page 27

---

## Page 28

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND SOTTON

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

EA/DET

DATE

INITIALS

3

Tia Bush ==

Do you trave this individud?

yea

Na

ACTION

APPROYAL

СОЖЖЕНТ

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

Ta

(PREPARE REPLY

SRZCOMMENDATION

RETURH

SISMATURE

Ineares

I was suing to formand this to

DeE secuity letter and

but since it.

a "Dear bart twinsto

from excuit through yow

on the off chance that it is an

acquaintance of the Director's.

ES

FEAR.

на 237

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS ANO PHONE NO.

Bambarn

Pindar

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

Use provious editions

DATE

9/16/76

SECRET

(10)

53294 DocId:32357018

Page 28

---

## Page 29

ER has no record of previous correspondence

from subject.

53294 DOCId:32357018 Page 29

---

## Page 30

hand written litter. Magle

you will be alle to bring a to

tuation I find mace/fin. -

My wipe and I find

aunties darren hit do

Vigilantes: our phone bugged

and mean steing for bre

villid in this on they do hop

want to accept my complain

Wear drinn to imanity h

this situation

I have been Rehavin

like a damu fool excitince

my daughter Nadya died fan

etona: 3 years ago, I'

HH 53294 DocId:32357018 Page 30

---

## Page 31

Fried to nrite, stupidly ei

unsuccessfull about see f

Wald did IT DO CAN.

That people iT long

man like nivelf an

cried you de Forefi

to remore the net aroule

Thir wile be my last

request for help and Lowin

not

sannoy you any man e

shod luck in yoder

Impertant job.

Thank you to much

gide Monreuschite

HH 53294 DocId: 32357018 Page 31

---

## Page 32

telligence agent

Director Central Is

16,

XVS-X

9251 155 0

. 6

Bush

HH

53294 DocId:32357018

Page 32

---

## Page 33

2737 King's Roadlytiaz

Dallas. Fextsz19

HItT

53294 DocId: 32357018

Page 33

---

