# docid-32287558

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10197-10334

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-1449, 1450

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

10: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/27/1975

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 11/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32287558

Page

1

14

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

NoteD. 36 (FOATE 22-11-14-2017

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

ГО :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

FBI

Date:

3/3/75

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY

(92-18) (P)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.,

aka

ANTI-RACKETEERING

=1438

Re Mexico City letter dated 8/22/74 and teletype

dated 2/27/75÷-1449

Referenced Mexico City letter dated 8/22/74

indicates dates of entry and departure from Costa Rica by

the subject.

A further check of the files of the Costa

Rican Immigration Service at San Jose, Costa Rica, on

2/26/75 indicated

the following:

Entered

Departed

3/29/74

4/11/74

5/9/74

6/21/74

4/9/74

5/5/74

5/14/74

7/26/74

A thorough check was made of the record indicating

subject had departed 7/26/74 inasmuch as this departure had

originally been filed as

Records of the LACSA

Airline were located for 7/26/74.

7/21/74• LACSA Flight #611 which

departed San Jose, Costa Rica, for Panama City, Panama,

listed passenger SANTO TRAFFICANTE, Tourist Permit #378394,

JOSEPH TRAFFICANTE, Tourist Permit

#378397, and SANTO

PANIELLO

" Tourist

Permit #396005,

made with reference to

as passengers.

Further checks

the July 21 date previously reported

and no record was found indicating

that subject or either of

Bureau

(1 - Foreign Liaison Unit)

1450

/(2 - Miami) (92-88)

07 RIS

(1 - Tampa) (Info) (92-1)

AKTI loN

2 - Mexico City

mart

17 MAR

- 1975

(1 - 162-8)

EX-114

AAC: sIs

(8)

a dan 2^ 1975

Sent

. Per

Special Agent in Charge

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971-413-135

DocId: 32287558

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act, of 1992

Hotel;

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-183

the other two individuals accompanying him had departed Costa

Rica on that date

Landing cards and airline passenger manifests for

the period September, 1974, to date are not currently in the

files.

MIGUEL HERNANDEZ (protect, a part-time employee.of

the U.S.

Embassy in San Jose, Costa Rica) who is in a position

to Obtain such information advised on 2/26/75 that SANTO

TRAFFICANTE is a Close associate of LAZARO MILIAN DID a Coole

Cuban national who formerty ran a bolita operation in the

Miami, Florida area and who is currently a Bureau fugitive.

fugitive) and EVARISTO GARCIA, SARMTENTO alT

and AVARTS and EVARISTO GARCIAVIDAL (also a Bureau, care

in San

currently reside

Jose, costa Rica, and enjoy the confidence and pro-

tection of high Costa Rican officials,

They have established.

a retail clothing business which has proven extremely profitable

and currently have five stores in Costa Rica and reportedly

have opened a storet in Managua, Nicaragua

Source

advised that LAZARO MILIAN DID recently

opened a night club in

San, Jose: known as the "Bellevue"

Located on Central Avenue

the night club is ravishly fur-

nished and

reportedly caters to an expensive trade.

Source

stated that SANTO TRAFFICANTE is close to MILIAN DID and

reportedly assisted in financing' in the opening of the night

club:

Source stated that he has not seen TRAFFICANTE in

the Costa Rica area for some time.

He stated that it was

probably August or September of last year when TRAFFICANTE

Iast visited Costa Rica. He advised, however, that TRAFFICANTE

is expected back inasmuch as TRAFFICANTE's automobile, a 1974

green Oldsmobile,

, was left in Costa Rica and is currently

being driven by the wife of LAZARO MILIAN DID.:

Source advised

that the last time TRAFFICANTE was in Costa Rica he was

hospitalized in the Clinica Biblica for an eye operation

owns

Source advised that GARCIA VIDAL reportedly also

a part of the Bellevue night club.

Source stated that

GARCIA SARMIENTO is reportedly working as a journalist and

writes anti communist articles

Source stated that this indi

vidual was recently invited to Chile by the current government

of that country

2 °

92-2781 - 1950

DocId: 32207559 Page 5

---

## Page 4

Released under

tre John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

Note)

* DATE:

11-14-2017

MEX 92-18

LEADS

MEXICO CITY:

AT SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA:

1)

Will

to check records of the Clinica

(Biblica Hospital) where subject reportedly was.

treated or operated on. in connection with

a problem with his

eyesight

2) Will recheck files of Costa Rican Immigration

Service for any additional data concerning entry or departure

by,

the

subject from the country

3

92 - 2781-1450

DocId: 32

036

Page

---

## Page 5

Released

under the John F

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

5:44 PM URGENT 2127/75 MJD

TO

DIREGTOR, FBI (92-2781):

FROM •LEGAT, MEXICO CITY. (92- 18)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., AKA; AR

innedy Assassination Records Coi

Tection Act of 1992. 142 154.-211

Assoc. Dir. -

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Dep.-A.D.-Adm.

Dep.-A.D.-Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

FEB 2 7 1975

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

TELETYPE

NR 159-27

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

1P

Laboratory

Plan.

& Evab

Spec. Inv.

Training

Legal Coun

Telephone Rm.

Director Sec'y

11436

REMYLET AUGUST 22, 1974, WHICH LISTED ENTRIES AND

DEPARTURES: FOR SUBJECT FRON COSTA RICAN RECORDS AVAILABLE AT

Fader

THAT TIME.

THE CENTRAL AMERICAN ROAD TRIP AGENT, CURRENTLY IN

TRAVEL STATUS, HAS ADVISED THAT A FURTHER REVIEW OF RECORDS

IN COSTA RICA REFLECT THAI TRAFFICANTE ENTERED AND DEPARTED

th

THAT COUNTRY'AS FOLLOWS:

ENTIRES

DEPARTURES

EX-101

MARCH 29, 1974

APRIL 9, 19 REC-I6

92-2781-1449

APRIL 11, 1974

MAY 5, 1974

MAY 9, 1974

MAY 14, 1974

15 MAR 4 1975

JUNE 21, 19.74

JULY 26, 1974

THE RECORDS REVEALED NO ADDITIONAL ENTRIES INTO OR

DEPARTURES FROM COSTA RICA BY THIS SUBJECT: THE AGENI ADVISED

•THAT THE JULY 26, 1974, DEPARTURE HAD PREVIOUSLY BEEN RECORDED

AND REPORTED AS JULY 21, 1974, BUI WAS NOW CONFIRMED AS

JULY 26,

1974.

END

mM

075

AR

ocId: 32287558 Page 5

---

