# docid-32297474

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10219-10250

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2914-313

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/10/1964

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

GM, SMO, ASSOC, MISUR, CONTIN, KEN IRON AND STEEL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/22/1998

- OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32297474

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Actiof 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-147 (Rev.

4-2-63)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

3010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRE

2e202a

JUNE

• ) DATE:

TO

dam

DIRECTOR, FBI

(Bufile 92-2914

92-2918

4/10/64

0E:CE::9002: 113K28

FROM

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-236- Sub

2)

(92-228-Sub

• 2)

SUBJECT:

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

CLASSINED BY 5668SL0/GCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25x16)

RE:

Title

/IF: 11/13197

10/1194

Classified D

Decleschy on. DADR

FK)

GABRIEL

MANNARINO, aka. ;

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka.

Character.of Case

AR

Field Office Pittsburgh

Symbol Number PG 713-C*

Type of Surveillance:

(Technical or

Microphone)

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

GABRIEL MANNARINO and SAMUEL MANNARINO, alleged

members of La Cosa Nostra

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or

area

covered:

Ken Iron and Steel Company

1263 Third Avenue, New Kensington, Pa.

Private office of SAMUEL MANNARINO

3. Location of monitoring plant:

C)

Pittsburgh Office Consolidated Plant, at

Fittsburgh FBI Office

2450 Union trust Building, Fifth Averue and

Pittsburgh, Pa.

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Erant street.

Authorization 3-2-64

Installation 3-6-64

5: Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places) :

None

REC 27: 92-29-4-313

answer following questions:

REPEANE

a.

b:

C.

Not applicable

Is a trunk line.

rages utilized?

2 APR 78 1964

Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

Is the surveillance

E rubie coin-operated telephone?

ONOHUE

gRegüstered Mall

1-Pittsburgh

TGF / cmc (3)

SPEC. MAIL

RM.

DocId: 32297474 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECHES

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One microphone (in west wall of)subjects! office near desk.

8. Is the installation part of a tel-mike?

of the combination:

so, give symbol of other

NO

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

Consult insert page.

All information was utilized for

intelligence purposes, and appropriate dissemination is being

10. Could de whetonation have been obtained from other sources and by other

information

means?

NO

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Four - none close enough to subjects to visit office

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

NO

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

None

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

8.

Rental

None

costs sEnate netice rental)

One unit of a misur

One unit of a misur (PG 622-C*) activated 2/7/61.

One unit of a misur (PG 685-C*)

activated 6/14/63.

SECRED

DocId: 32297474 Page 3

---

