# docid-32300119

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10226-10399

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-302

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM: SAC, LV

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/30/1961

7

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, ASSOC, GREEN GABLES RANCH, VISITORS, MCGUIRE,

PHYLLIS, GIFTS, SUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32300119 Page 1

188

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Roy. 12-13-56)

-*

FBI

Date:

June 30, 1961

Transmit the following in -

Via

AIRTEL

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAI

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

SAC, LAS VEGAS (92-308)

SAMUEL M. CANCANA

AR

(00: Chicago)

ALL

HEREIN

INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE4-20 • 94

UNGLAS

ED

Re Las Vegas tel 6/27/61.

Records of the Clark County Sheriff's Office, Las

Vegas, reflect the following information concerning one NICKOLAS

CECOLA, Sheriff's Office No. 50-30067.

He was fingerprinted

12/27/57 when he was applying for a position as box man at

the Silver Slipper Casino. He gave a local address of the

Desert Inn Hotel. He was

described as WMA, born 9/16/1900

at Homer, Louisiana, 5'7z"

He listed former employment as the owl gray hair and brown eyes.

club, Calument CIty,

Illinois. Person to notify in case of an emergency was Mrs.

F. CECOLA, 3928 Birchwood, Skokie, Illinois, telephone No.

OR 4-0582. A form was returned from the Identification Division

of the FBI stamped 1/10/58 "no arrest record. "Y

A duplicate work permit card was issued to CECLOA on

6/25/58, at which time he gave a local address of the New

Frontier Hotel and listed employment as box man at the Star-

dust Hotel.

Photographs of CECOLA are being obtained to exhibit

to Mr. and Mrs. SETH ANTHONY (Protect Identity), caretakers

at the Green Gables Ranch.

REC: 74

EX 101. 92-3171-302

195:

10 Bill.

3 - Bureau (REGISTERED)

2

- Chicago (REGISTERED)

- New York (REGISTERED)

2 - Las Vegas

MBP/n]w

(9)

58

JUL 181961

Nicapproved:

Special

I Agent in Chatge

NW 45792 - DocId: 32300119. Page

2

Sent

Per

---

## Page 3

LV 92-308

TEETER advised that in the event it was ever

necessary

to surveil any of the MC GUIRE Sisters, care

should be taken, inasmuch as all three of the sisters can

read lips at any distance they can see.

He said

this ability to read lips has been developed over a number

of years and he considers all three of the girls to be

experts. TEETER stated he was not attempting to obtain

any information relative to any possible surveillance

but was merely furnishing information since he desired to

cooperate with the Bureau.

No indication was given to

TEETER that surveillance had been placed on PHYLISS MC GUIRE

concerning the Green Gables Ranch. Y

TEETER stated that PHYLISS believed she was under

surveillance by the FBI at all times and that obviously the

thought had been inspired by subject. u

In this regard, it is noted that PCI

(Protect Identity) advised SA WILLIAM R. SWOPE On 6/26/61

that JOE

PIGNATELLO thought that he was under constant surveil-

lance and had made the remark that he changed automobiles

three or four times a day to evade surveillance. It is noted

no fisure has been maintained on PIGNATELLO in order that

there be no possibility of interferring with the present

investigation on subject. u

A fisure of PHYLISS MC GUIRE on the night of

6/16/61 reflected she left the Desert Inn Hotel in a 1961

Cadillac Convertigle, Nevada license C 63414. She drove

to the Green Gables Ranch Whichess tagatedeon Pecos Road

approximately & mile south of Flamingo Road in Paradise

Valley near Las Vegas.

It is noted that the Green Gables

Ranch is in a fairly isolated desert area and that a fisure

on the vicinity except from a fixed observation point is not

practical.

The Green Gables Ranch is presently under a

five year

lease to a Mrs. GAY ROBERT,

413 Las Vegas Boulevard

South. Discreet inquiry

in Las Vegas reflects Mrs. ROBERTS

operates the Personality Center (Massage Center) and that she

would probably not be too responsible in her actions.

Further

discreet inquiry reflected that Mr. and Mrs. SETH ANTHONY

reside on the ranch and occupy the

position

as caretakers. u

Contact was made on 6/17/61 with Mr. and Mrs,

SETH ANTHONY away from the ranch. It was determined that

SETH ANTHONY is a First Lieutenant in the United States

Air Force and is presently stationed at Nellis Air Force

Base near Las Vegas. The ANTHONYs described the ranch as

follows:

OTHER 4

-4-

NW 45792 DocId: 32300119 Page 3

---

