# docid-32210821

## Page 1

Date: 08/12/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : WC

RECORD NUMBER

: 179-40003-10276

RECORDS SERIES

08:

NUMBERED COMMISSION DOCUMENTS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO

:

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

: 08/17/64

LANE, MARK

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

: REFERRED

P

:

COMMENTS :

P. 1-2; 3 COPIES; BOX F02

IR]. - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

50529

DocId:32210821

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

Commission N80 1457

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535.

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. v

Mational. archies he det dated 6/25/85

August 17, 1964

requested a septematic Nose of desegnated

3-3-93

viren commissin doco.

Classified by 9503 RDD /KSR

NoTE: Only thase percement pep. as designated ly

anas Were On August 5, 1954, T-1,

Nrewed furnished information

as follows:

(Unridential source abroad!

DCAAU SDP/ AHR

MARK LANE entered Denmark April 9, 1964, from Rome

4-21-8 And stayed at the Hotel Royal in Copenhagen

on April 9 and

10, 1964. On April 16, 1964,

he re-entered Denmark from

London, England, and he stayed at the Hotel Viking, Copenhagen,

April 16 and 17, 1964, and at the Hotel Skovriderkroen on

April 17 and 18,

1964.

C.)

On April 10,

1964, LANE delivered a lecture to the

Students' Union in Copenhagen concerning the assassination of

President Kennedy. In this regard, I-l advised that a known

Danish communist, JORGEN THEILGAARD JACOBSEN, a lawyer, born

April 11, 1919, took the initiative in forming a Danish committee

for the main purpose of obtaining information on the continued

investigations into the assassination.

intends to have translated and published a book which LANE is

writing on LEE HARVEY OSWALD's part or innocence in the murder.

C)

JACOBSEN and LANE became acquainted sometime ago when.

attending the Congress of the International Association of

Democratic Lawyers in Budapest

and they intend to continue the

contact, as MARK LANE will supply the Danish Committee with all

new material on the assassination. )

While in Denmark, MARK LANE was interviewed on April 28

1964, for eight minutes by the Danish State Television Service.

In the middle of May, T-l received information that

MARK LANE intended to visit Denmark again and during the after-

noon of May 25, 1964, in Copenhagen he delivered a lecture at

a meeting organized by the Lawyers' Debating Club. On the

evening of May 25, 1964, In Aarhus, Denmark, LANE

delivered

a

lecture to a meeting organized by

the Students' Association and

the daily paper "Demokraten."

ALL INFORMATION COUTAIS

ATHEIS IS UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

excluded yrom automatic

downgrading and

declassification

HH 50529 DocId:32210821 Page 2.

---

## Page 3

CONF IDENT TAI

T-l advised that these lectures were similar to

his previous ones in that LANE gave an account of his

inquiries since the assassination in November and showed

why in his opinion OSWALD could not have been the assassin.

LANE also stated during the lectures that he had

visited Dallas, Texas, live times; that he was under sur-

veillance by the FBI, which tapped his telephones, and that

he was happy to have

the opportunity of pleading the cause

in Europe as he had gained the impression that this was

being reported by the press in the United States. (C)

LANE's comprehensive material on the assassination

reportedly has been placed at the disposal of the Danish

may tell pite purpose a carl putation (C)

On May 26, 1964, LANE departed Copenhagen for Sweden,

France and England,

where he was also to deliver lectures. C)

I-I advised that Who Killed Kennedy Committees

have been established on LANE's initiative in Copenhagen,

Paris and

Iondon, all with prominent personalities as

members.

c)

According to T-1, LANE returned to the United States

on July 1, 1964.

C)

CONFIDENTIAL

2

HH 50529

DocId:32210821 Page 3

---

