# docid-32308449

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10294-10307

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 172-195-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/20/1974

4

ISW, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, AK-SAR-BEN RACE TRACK,

OM, NE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32308449

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Réleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

Assoc. Dir. ..

Dep.-A.D.-Adm..

Dep.-A.D.-Inv.*

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

JUNZ 019/4

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv. -

TROIT CE CODE

736PM NITEL

TELETY

Ident.

Inspection

6-20-74 RWR

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan, &

TO DIRECTOR

Spec. Inv

Training

Legal Coun

OMAHA

FROM CHICAGO (172-46) (4P)

Telephone Rm.

Director Sec'y

Rites

ANTHONY JOHN SPILOTRO; ET AL; ALLEGED FIXING OF SIXIH

RACE AT AK-SAR-BEN RACE TRACK, OMAHA, NEBRASKA, JUNE 5, 1974,

SPORTS BRIBERY. 00: CHICAGO.

+ *=

REMYTEL JUNE 7, 1974.

CG 8534-C RE-CONTACIED JUNE 18, 1974, AND ADVISES HE HAS

LEARNED THE WINNER OF THE FIXED RACE IN QUESTION INVOLVED THE HORSE

VICKIE'S GIGI. SOURCE STATES THIS RACE WAS ONE OF MANY THROUGH-

OUT US TRACKS THAT HAVE BEEN FIXED BY CAPTIONED GROUP. THIS

ACTIVITY, ACCORDING TO SOURCE, IS HEADED BY MILES COOPER (REAL

NAME MILES COOPERMAN, FORMER CHICAGO POLICE OFFICER FORCED OFF

POLICE DEPARIMENI FOR INVOLVEMENT IN NARCOTICS, WHO PURCHASES

HORSES FOR THE GROUP AND PLACES HORSES

RECLAME OF NOMINEESES

PROCEDURE IS TO HOLD BACKOA

HORSE SEVEN OR EIGHT RACES THEN RUN

IT AS A STEAMHORSE.

THERE IS ANOTHER HORSE IN THE RACE THAT

WOULD LIKELY GIVE THEIR HORSE TROUBLE THEY ENTER ANOTHER OF THEIR

HORSES IN THE

RACE FOR INTERFERENCE OR REACH JUN OCKET AND

ALL INFORMATION CONTALNETHER

END PAGE ONE

56 JUN 28 1974

HEROIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DocId: 32308449 Page 2

---

