# docid-32390489

## Page 1

Date: 02/12/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-10408-10293

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

RUSS HOLMES WOrK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53320 Date:

06-26-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: BERN

TO : DIRECTOR

TITLE

:

CABLE - MORNING 27 NOV MEETING HELD 20 OFFICE.

DATE

11/27/1963

PAGES

4

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/06/04

COMMENTS : JFK-RH04 : F108-1: 20040324-1064228

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10408-10293

HH 53320

DocId: 32390489

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ROM

/ DIRECTOR

BERN

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

(

2

SS COPY

CTION, CANH 4. (MR WHITTEN WH AND C/CI COPY SLOTTED AT 1545-27 NOV 63)

IFO

DCI, DDP, C/CI 2, VR

ROUTING

SE

0p ET 2718207

ERIOP ITY DIR INFO FRIORITY ENVA CITE BERN 2587

T7 NO G3 IN69 / 39

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

LIZAR KUDESK INK

the following action 1s

REF A DERN 2492 (IN 68312) 106

authorized: DE SENSITIZE

B BERN 2493 (1 68364)*48

Signed:

BERN 2494 (11 68355) ****

R.O.

#1 - Unit

1. MORNING 27 NOVEMBER MEETING HELD INANITION 2DNote:

If destruction,

cite

1

reasons

coordinate

OFFICE WITH INANITION 2D, INANITION 6, ODENVY REP BERN,

11 appropriate.

ELMARD PRESENT. RESULTS AS FOLLOWS.

2.: I20 STATED UNKNOWN CALLER CITED REF A FIRMLY

IDENTIFIED AS SUBJ REF B PARA

1:

REDY GILBERT NILS ANDERSON.

I 20 CONFIRMED ANDERSSON ALTHO BORN LAUSANNE, MARRIED

SWISS WIFE, AND LONG-TIME RESIDENT LAUSANNE IS SOLEY

SWEDISH NATIONAL AND DOES NOT ENJOY DOUSLE NATIONAL IT Y.

HE SUBS OF INANITION ATTN FOR NUMBER OF YEARS BECAUSE

CONNECT IONS WITH ALGERIAN INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENT SUISSE

AND FRANCE. INANITION ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS CONSIDERED

IMPET CL 87012208 F

CONDUCTED ON_24pag.25

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

for FOlA Review on

Document Number

APR 1976

EXPULSION SUT TO DATE NOT APLE FIND FIRM LECAL BASIS FOR

149-605

SUCH ACTION D: 202: 5-41

3• MONTREUX PUBLISHING HOUSE

"LẮ

A CITE" WHICH ANDERSSON

221-284248

CONTROLS HANDLES PUBLICATION OF "REVOLUTION" MAGAZINE.

5

200-5-41

TO DATE INANITION NOT ABLE PINPOINA SOURCE OF ANDERSSON

27 N0u63

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

Copy No.

NW 53320 DocId:32390489 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 69139 PAGE 2.

FUNDS TOR PERSONAL EXISTENCE AND FOR ISSUANCE OF REVOLU

TION. FINANITION SFICULATES CHICOMS FROVIDING MONEY BUT TO

DATE NO EVIDENCE FROM INANIT ION COVERACE OF CHICON EMS

FERN, ANDERSSON OR CISSON TO SUPPORI THIS HYPOT HE SIS.

RECENT INFO (PROBABLY FROM PHONE TAPS) INDICATES ANDERSSON:

VOT ON GOOD TEPMS WITH PRO-CHINESE SWISS COMMIE CROUP.

B. GIBSON MUST LEAVE SUISSE PRIOR TO 15 DECEMBER

FECAUSE ALIENS POLICE HAVE REFUSED GRANT HIM RESIDENCE

1

PERMIT. IN ANSWER TO QUERY RE REASON I 20 REFERRED TO FILE

AND STATED GIBSON PREVIOUSLY CONSIDERED UNDESIRABLE

PERSON, NOW

EVEN MORE PERSONA NON GRATA.

5.

INANITION REVIEW OF FILE MATERIAL RE GIBSON, OSWALD:

ET C FAILED TO REVEAL ANY INDICATION THAT GIBSON IN RECENT

CONTACT METROIT CONCAGI APPEARS TO LATE RON

CIRCA 68-62/ WHEN CISSON INVOLVED IN FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA:

(FPCC) IN STATES.

6. AT ELMARD REQUEST I-28 MADE QUICK' PHONE CHECK

(PROBAFLY WITH I 25) RE ALBERT SCHWEITZER COLLEGE, CHUR-

WALDEN CITED REF C PARA 1. CHECK INDICATED COLLEGE IS

REGULAR SWISS SECONDARY SCHOOL RUN BY CLER GYMAN WHO FRIEND:

OF SWISS ATTORNEY GENERAL FUERST AND WHO ENJOYS GOOD REPU-

5

TATION. NO INANITION INFO RE THIS ASPECT OSWALD HISTORY

OT HER THAN THAT CITED REF C.

•1

7. AFTER REVIEW VARIOUS ACTIONS POSSIBLE I 20 AGREED

TAKE FOLL ACTION.

A104 10%

HH: 53320

DocId: 32390489 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN

69139

_ PAGE 3.

CONTINUE PHONE COVERAGE OF GIBSON AND

UNDERTAKE ANY OTHER COVERAGE, INC SURVEILLANCE, WHICH

INANIT ION INSPECTOR HANDLINE CASE (PROBAELY I 32) CONSIDERS

FEASIPLE.

5

B. : INANITION WILL PROVIDE TRANSCRIPTS OF GIBSON

PHONE TAP IN OPIGINAL FRENCH LANGUAGE SOONEST FEASIELE

AFTER CONVERSATIONS. REPORTS INCLUDING TRANSCRIPTS AND

OTHER INANÉTTON COMMENTS WILL BE PASSED DIRECTLY TO

ODENVY PEP WHO WILL PASS COPY TO ELMARD AND DISCUSS CONTENTS.

C. COVERAGE OF ANDERSON WHICH MAY ALREADY

INCLUDE PHONE TAP; IN FACT POSSIBLE ORIGINAL TAP WAS ON

ANDEP SEON PHONE AND GIBSON TAP ADDED LATER) WILL BE

INTENSIFIED.

D. INANITION WILL TRY FURTHER CLARIFY RELA-

TIONSHIPS AMONG GISSON, ANDERSSON, CHICOMS AND OTHER PERSONS

ASSOCIATED WITH REVOLUTION MAGAZINE, WITH SPECIAL ATTN IO

ANY INFO POSSIBLY INDICATING ANY OSWALD CONTACIS NOT ALREADY

REPORTED.

BETTON GARBLED - BEING SUOD

•8.

CONSIDER RESULTS MSTBOR VERY SATISFACTORY.

I 20

AND I & OSVIOUSLY SHAKEN BY KENNEDY DEATH AND PLEDGED

ALL POSSISLE AID TO TRY CLARIFY BACKEROUND OF ASSASSINATION.

THEY REASSURED BY ODENVY REP AND ELMARD THAT NONE

OF. INFO PASSED TO ODYOKE REPS WOULD BE "USED AS EVIDENCE

OP. APPEAR IN COURT RECORDS. ALL AT MEET AGREED SHOÜLD

201-284248

200-5X1

HH 53320

DocId:32390489

Page 4

---

## Page 5

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

iN 69139

_ PAGE 4

BE EASY FOR DENVY IO DEVELOP COLLATERAL INFO TO USE IN

AVY INTERVIEN WITH GIBSON.

3

9.

QUESTION RE POSSIBLE ODENVY INTERVIEW OF CIBSON

74

... 3

IN SUISSE NOT RAISED BY ODYOKE REPS OR INANITION.

ODENVY

REP MAD NOT RECEIVED ANY REPLY OR GUIDANCE FROM HIS HQS.

1123

AND THUS DECIDED NOT BROACH MATTER AT MEET•

1?. REVIEW OF ODENVY REP FILE RE FPCC ATTER MEET

REVEALED INFO INDICATING POSSILE IDENTITIES OF PERSONS

CITED REF B PARAS 5 AND 6 AS FOLLOWS...

A. "L'Y" POSSIBLY IDEN WITH VINCENT TED LEE,

FORMER HEAD OF FPCC TAMPA WHO SERVED AS CHAIRMAN FPCC

100272

NEW YORK IN ABSENCE GIBSON.

3. "TIBOR" POSSIELY IDEN WITH ROBERT TABER,

FORMER CHAIRMAN OF FPCC WHO ALLEGEDLY RESIGNED IN 62.

SECRET

C/S: COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO GPFLOOR CABLES.• :

**Forwarded text of INANITION (5) memo concerning Richard:

Thomas Gibson, who was acquainted with Oswald.

*** Station comments on above memo.

****Forwarded complete text of second memo re Lee Henry Oswald received by:

ODENVY (3) rep. Bera frora INANITION (5).

NH 53320 DocId: 32390489 Page 5

---

