# docid-32334384

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-901 16-10090

RECORD SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-3395-195

eleased under the John

ennedy issassination Record

ACt

0E 1992

2107 Notel.

10225220010300-204

144

Cased: NT

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/07/1965

7

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

MINUTEMEN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/10/1998

INDEFINITE

FD-306

w9.1

HH

53074

DocId: 32334384

Page 1

37

---

## Page 2

Cover Sheet for Infornant Report or Material

PD-906 (3-81-58)

Date received

9/2/65

Received frou

NO 1271-R

Nethod of delivery

/z/ by telephone

/x/orally

Is orally furnighed and reduced to

Date of Réport

writing by Agent:

Dictated -9/13/65

to DOROTHY B. HART Date(s) of activity

Transcribed

9715/65

Auchenticated

by informant

orally

Received by

SA STEPHEN M. CALLENDER

File where original is located

if not attached

170-20A

Brief description of activity or

material.

Klan rally at Bogalusa, Louisiana

on 9/6/65.

Renarks:

Copies:

1-170-20Á

(SEE COVER PAGE B)

62.3395-195

Searched__edexed

SerializedZj

Filed &

SEPT 15 1965

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

ATE 2/22/80 BY SPEBIRA

11162

HH 53074 DocId:32334384 Page 2

---

## Page 3

• NO 170-20A

SuC/dbb

COPIBS (continued)

1 - 105-1057

(OKKKK)

1 - 157-1319

(Bogalusa)

- 157-1489

(Saxon Farner)

- 62-3395

(Minutemen)

1

- 157-

(Richard Cotton)

1

- 157-

1

•157-

(John Rarick)

(Bill McDonald)

1 - 157-

(Dorothy GaLloway)

1 - 157-

(Billy Clyde Simmons)

1 - 157-

(Clayton Hines)

157-

(Arvis Warner)

- 157-

(Al Bardin)

1

- 157-1768

1

(Russell Mage)

- 157-3351

(Paul Coone)

- 157-

(C. J. Seale)

- 157-

(Eric Peterson)

1

- 157-

(Jack Belm)

1 - 173-201

(Racial Situation,

Bogalusa)

1 - 157-

(Dewey Smith)

1 - 157-

(Silas Thomas)

1 - 157-

(Billy C. Morris)

1 - 157-

(Young White Conservatives of America)

1 - 157-

(Charles Christmas)

2- Jackson (RM)

2- Birmingham (RM)

SMC/dbh

(28)

B*

(COVER PAGE)

HH 53074

DocId: 32334384

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NO 270-20A

SNC/dbh

.:.

On the morning of Septeuber 6, 1965, SAXON FARMER was

overheard to ramirk that ROBERT DEPUGH, the National Commander of

the "Minutenen" would not be coming to Bogalusa, Louisiana to speak

at the Klan rally to be hold on September 6, 1965. FARMER aclaimed

that when the Federal Government found out that DEPUGH was supposed

to come to Bogalusa to speak, they had given DEPUGH some kind of

court order to appear in court.

FARMER remarked that Reverend FARRELL GRISHALD frOm

Montgomery, Alabama would be coming to Bogalusa to speak in place of

DEPUGH. FARMER stated that the Klan would pay all travel expenses

for the main speakers at this rally, who would be Judge JOHN RARRICK,

RICHARD COTTON and FARRELL GRISHALD.

There were observed in SAX FARMER's place of business a

Klan leaflet entitled "Fifty Reasons Why You Should Be a Member Of

The Ku Klux Klan."

At approximately 1:30 p.m. a motor parade of white indi-

viduals left the downtown area of Bogalusa and proceeded to the

Bogalusa Municipal Airport.

-

HH 53074 DocId:32334384 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NO 17020A

SMC/dbh

The rally lasted fron approzinately 1:45 p.m. to about

4:30 p.n. and an estinated 1,500 to 2,000 persons attended this

rally. There were refreshments served at this rally to those

attonding and prior to the speeches a small musical group played

country and western music.

The following individuals were observed at this rally:

DOROTHY GALLOWAY

BILLY CLYDE SIMMONS

PAUL COONE

CLAYTON HINkS

ARVIS HARNER

AL BARDIN

RUSSELL MAGEE

C. J. SEALE

CHARLES CHRISTMAS

SAXON FARMER

ERIC PETERSON

JACK HELM - from New Orleans

GEORGE SINGLEMAN - from New Orleans

JUDGE JOHN RARRICK

RICHARD COTTON

DEWEY SHITH

SILAS THOMAS

BILLY C. MORRIS

The rally was opened with a short prayer by Reverend

SILAS THOMAS, from the Pearl River, Louisiana area and the first

speaker was introduced by DEWEY SMITH.

2

MH 53074

DocId: 32334384

Page

5

---

## Page 6

NO 170-20A.

SEE/dbb

This first speaker was Judge JOHN RARRICK fron st.

Francisville, who after his speech acted as master of ceremonies

the rest of the afternoon.

Judge RARRICK talk consisted mainly of telling the people

that all Governments, local, state and Federal are catering to the

corpunists. RARRICK told the people that the Clvil Rights movement

was connunist controlled and inspired and that the Federal Government

was attempting to take over all of the activitles.of every indivi-

dual's life.

The next speaker wag ERIC PETERSON from the Sun, Louisiana

area, who spoke mainly against the local and state political leaders

of Louisiana. PETERSON stated that Mayor JESSE CURER of Bogalusa,

Louisiana, Representative "BUSTER" SHERIDAN Of Washington Parish,

State Senator B. P. "SIXTY" RAYBURN and GOVERNOR JOHN J. MC KEITHEN

were "nothing but a bunch of Nigger lovers." PETERSON stated that

a new recall petition was being circulated against Mayor CUTRER of

Bogalusa.

The next speaker was RICHARD COTTON, who said he was

3

HH 53074 DocId:32334384 Page 6

---

## Page 7

NO • 170-20A

s#C/dbb

originally from Bakersfield, California, but was presently residing

in Shreveport, Louisiana, and would be moving to Shreveport perman-

ently. He said he had written a story about the whole Bogalusa

situation which exposed the racial demonstrations in Bogalusa as

part of the comnunist conspiracy. COTTON stated that all racial

demonstrations by Negores are not spontaneous as is indicated in

the news media but have all been well planned in advance.

The last speaker was Reverend FARRELL GRISWALD, WhO

stated that the Federal Government was behind many of the racial

demonstrations in this country and that these disturbances had

been planned by the Federal Government. He complained of being

harassed by the FBI and claimed that the racial disturbances,

which were occurring at the present time were planned months ago.

He also spoke on the Selma to Montgomery march by Negores and claimed

that this march was nothing but a sex orgy for three days.

All of the speakers at this rally damned the Federal

Government, but urged those in attendance to give their wolehearted

support to law enforcement officials.

4

:..

HH 53074 DocId:32334384 Page 7

---

## Page 8

8EC/dbb

During the rally AlVIS WARNER was overhead to remark that

he had received & subpoena to appear in federal court in New

Orleans, ordering him to bring any or all Klan records including

nenbership and financial as well as any Klan audits. WARNER

related that this subpoena ordered him to bring the same material

which related to the Anti-connunist Christian Association and the

Young White

Conservatives

of America.

HH 53074

DocId: 32334384

Page 8

---

