# docid-32293058

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10210-10334

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2713-184

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/16/1961

5

CM, INS, HEARING, ASSOC, DELAY, PAID OFF

DEPORTATION, SOURCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

NW 45855

20

DocId: 32293058

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD:36 (Rey. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

6/16/61

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

repo

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2713)

SAC, MIAMI (92-605)

CARLOS MARCELLO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

PCI

as follows on 6/15/61:

advised SA VINCENT K. ANTLE

On Sunday, 6/11/61,

at Baton Rouge, Louisiana,

in an automobile, PCI

heard from a source close

to the Governor of Louisiana (the identity of which source

he did not wish to reveal) that certain persons were intent-

on getting help for CARLOS MARCELLO to obtain a 6-month

delay at his INS deportation hearing scheduled for 6/27 or

6/28/61, at McAllen, Texas.

The source asked PCI C

1 if

he could

assist on this matter through his political con-

tacts.

PCI I

was told that $100,000 was available

in cash to secure the successful results in this deal, and

that L

• could have $50,000 cash at once with the

remainder of $50,000 to be held back until the deal was

completely consummated. The source told PCI|

move was going to be made and the money paid to help

I the in

MARCELLO get this delay whether he,_

was interested

or not.

The source told

that MARCELLO had paid

$400,000

to the recent National Democratic Campaign and*

$300,000

to the successful campaign of DAVIS, present

10г

Governor of Louisiana.

The source said Governor DAVIS had

KnOw MARCELLO for approximately 18 years and thef

had been

menno

hitter

- Bureau (AM) (Encs-SNCLOSURFan

EX- 105

REC 92.2

21/5-184

2 - New Orleans

(1 -

92-36) (AM)

Rach

(1 - 137-1044 -

(Bnc-1)

1i - San Antonio

* JUN 19,1961

• (Info) (Enc-1)

готе

2

- Miami (1 - 92-605) (1 - 137-2164

VKA: g fg

(82 c " Wick".

Approved?

лим

Sent

_ M

Per

56 JUN 30 1961

Special Agent in Charge

OTHER 4

HW

45855 DocId: 32293058

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD:36 (Reve' 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI.

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MM 92-605

close in the past, and he would be interested in helping

MARCELLO get this 6-month delay. The source said RUSSELL

LONG, U. S. Senator from Louisiana, would be interested in

assisting MARCELLO since in the past he, too, has received

financial aid from MARCELLO. The source said LONG had

recommended and was sponsoring a Louisiana official for the

top INS position in Washington, D. C., and if he could get

his official appointed

this appointment.

the FBI was investigating this Louisiana candidate for the

INS position. The source said MARCELLO has in excess of

30 million dollars in cash, and that he controls politics

in Louisiana.

-

PCI L

said CARLOS MARCELLO and his close-

contacts and friends will secure a complete run-down on

the commissioner who will preside at the INS hearing in

McAllen, Texas,

and an approach will be made directly or

ancoreane woth mAma lly te delay the deportation in

knew of no further details concerning the methods to be

used by MARCELLO or his contacts, but that they would

concentrate on the weaknesses of the commissioner obtained

costs os,

from a result of their investigation of him. PCI

felt overtures in this direction would be made in the

immediate future.

PCI L

I said MARCELLO: desires a 6-month

delay because he and his lawyers feel they can whip his

-2 -

Approved:

Sent

_M Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45855 DocId: 32293058 Page 3

• Г

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

"D=36, (Reva 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MM 92-605

deportation permanently if granted this period to do it.

PCI C

said he has no use whatsoever for

CARLOS MARCELLO and felt the U. S. should rid itself of

such hoodlums, and that is why he wished to furnish this

information.

He said that he told the source he would

not be a part to help MARCELLO because the deal would not

be a public relations matter which is his business but a

fix, and that his present reputable promotional venture

is a successful one, and that he did not wish to hurt:

his reputation or the reputation of his present business

through the suggested implication.

An original FD-302 has been prepared

initialed

and recorded in the file of PCI

at Miami,

in the event it is necessary to

, have same at a later date.

Enclosed is a letterhead memo suitable for

dissemination to INS by the Bureau. Also enclosed is

one copy each for New Orleans and San Antonio for their

information.

OTHER 4

- 3 -

Approved:

Sent

M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45855 DocId: 32293058 Page 4

---

