# docid-32290592

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10205-10368

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2717-137

Released under the John

'- Kennedy

ussassination Recorde

collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel .

Case# :NW 45737 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

VANARSDALL, ROBERT F.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 04/10/1961

PAGES :

16

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

ABR, BKG INVEST, ASSOC, ARREST RECORDS, B/F INT,

TOLL CALLS, CRIMINAL ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4; 11(a)

Redact

09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1.

HH 45737

43

DocId: 32290592

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NK 92-478

nickname "Brownie" and both brothers are also known by the name

BROWN.

EDWARD BRALYNSKI appears to be the dominant partner

in the business and resides in an apartment at 1004 Division

Street, Trenton, N.J. and RAYMOND BRALYNSKI resides at RD #3,

Lawrenceville Road, Princeton Township, N.J.

Lieutenant WILLIAM BURNS, Trenton, N.J. PD Detective

Bureau, advised on 1/26 and 2/3/61

that EDWARD BRALYNSKI, aka.,

"Brownie" had suffered a heart attack in November, 1960 and was

released from the hospital in the middle of January, 1961.

BURNS

had no knowledge of the specific illness of CHARLES COSTELLO,

proprietor of the J.C. Vending Machines, Inc:, 947 Southard Street,

Trenton, NoJ:, but advised COSTELLO hasnot been in good health for

several

months and reportedly frequently goes to Niami, Fla. for

his health and is known to have purchased a home in Miami or

Miami Beach, Florida.

FRANK FINTON, Chief, Audit section, Internal Revenue

Service, Federal Building, Trenton,

NoJo, who requested his

identity be concealed, advised that

JEK Law 11(a)

It is noted that identification records on file with

Therew Jersey State Bureau of Identification, N.J. State Police,

police,

renton, N.J. for CARL IPPOLITO, FBI #773655, MICHAEL •

TRAMANTANA, FBI

#582335 and FRANK POLLASTRELLI, FBI #582826

are completely set out in report of SA J. ROBERT PEARCE at

Philadeiphia, 3/6/61.

These records are identical with records

maintained at the Trenton, N.J. PD and the N.J. State Bureau

of Identification, West Trenton, which were developed in investi-

gation by Newark and are not being included in this report to

avoid repetition.

It is noted there is no Westbury, N.J.

as set out in

Miami letter to Philadelphia, 1/31/61. REVIEWED BY

STUFA TAST FORCE

ON 7-2298 det

COVER PAGE

RELSASE IN FULL

1. RELEASE IN PART

92-2117-137

• TOTAL. DENIAL

NW 45737 DooId: 32290592 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NK 92-478

INFORVANTS

NK T-1 is CSNK 1741, contacted by IC ROBERT E. HOREL

on 2/17/61.

NK I-2 is RAY LUND, Investigator, N.J. Bell Telephone

Company, Trenton,

N.J. contacted 2/8/61 by SA ROBERT F. VAN

ARSDALL®

LEADS

XIAMI

FLA. Will identify subscriber to telephone

PL 7-5090, called from the J.C. Vending Machines, Ine., Trenton,

N.J. and

conduct credit and criminal checks and background

information to determine if an associate of the subject.

FLA.

Will identify subscriber to

telephone WI 7-2835 called from the j.C. Vending Machine, Inc.,

Trenton, N.J. and conduct credit and criminal checks for back-

ground information to determine if an associate of the subject.

NEWARK

AT CAMDEN, N. J.

Will contact MANUEL WINIGRAD, Chief

Audit Division, Interpal Revenue service for anv pertinent

information developed

JFK Law 11(a)

AT ENGLISHTOWN, NOU.

Will identify subscriber and

make credit, criminal and indices checks regarding telephone

number GI 6-9611, called from the Miami residence of CHARLES I.

COSTELLO.

C*

COVER PAGE

922717-137

74 457371

DooId: 32290592 Page 3

---

