# docid-32307470

## Page 1

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System .

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10292-10173

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-417

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

"PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/16/1961

1

SGI, ASSOC, CRIM ACT, BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

02/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32307470

430

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Ho

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-41 6164:

6-2-611

Radio

DECODED COPY

x& Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr .

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans'=

- Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram.

Gandy

DEFERRED

9-16-61

9:43 AM COST EAH

0

DIRECTOR

FROM SAC, CHICAGO

161159

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA., AR. DAILY SUMMARY. CG 6486-C*

REPORTED NO PERTINENT ACTIVITY QURING SEPTEMBER 14 LAST.

PREVIOUSLY HAD AMBER LOUNGE IN CICER®,*

ON BOOKMAKING ACTIVITIES. HE MOVED THIS OPERATION TO THE

MITCHELL TAVERN, CICERO, WHERE IT WAS RUN FOR HIM BY WILLIE

WILLIAMS WITH THE GAMBLING STAMP BEING ISSUED UNDER THE NAME

OF HELEN MICHELLE, WILLIAM'S GIRL FIREND. THIS OPERATION

LAST WEEK BYOU REOR COUNTS STATES ATTORNEY'S INVESTIGATORS

LAST WEEK. YOU WERE PREVIOUSLY ADVISED OF ROBERT PETRONE,

ASSOCIATE OF ANTHONY GIROLAMI REPORTING TO GIANCANA REGARDING

THE OPERATION OF THE OASIS VENDING COMPANY AND ALSO RE ONE

ED JULIUS, IRS AGENT. THIS SITUATION BEING FULLY EXPLORED

ON DISCREET BASIS. CG 6443-C ADVISED THAT GIROLAMI'S RECENT

APPOINTMENT AS CLERK OF THE PROBATE COURT PLACES HIM IN A

POSITION WHEREBY HE CAN STEAL MORE THAN A MILLION DOLLARS

AND GET AWAY WITH IT. INFORMANT INDICATED THAT WILLS BEING

PROBATED IN THIS COURT INVOLVE HUGE AMOUNTS OF MONEY. ARMED

AND DANGEROUS. U

RECEIVED:

11:16 AM CODING UNIT BLH

100

REC- 4

92-3171-417

SEP 22; 1961

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIRIED

DATE 4-20-84 BYSeS R56/COl

MIY

4 SEP 27 1961

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably -

DorI doctased Thorderauerolect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

---

