# docid-32334057

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10050

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 87-58729-29

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WELTE

TO: ROSEN

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

04/13/1961

3

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO, INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

NW 45876 DocId: 32334057 Page 1

8

---

## Page 2

томи каки по. 10

ÚNITED STATES GOL

•- NINMENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. Rosen fau

11.)

FROM

furt

Male V

DATE: April 13, 1961

Bang Bi

rotter

W.C. Sallivan -

Tele. Room -

954.

SUBJECT:

UNKNOWN SUBJECTS (2); Armed Robbery o1

Approximately $117,200 Jewelry and Cash,

Residence of Edith and Fritz Werner

Dorigo, Hallandale, Florida, March 20, 1961

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN PROPERTY -

3

MAJOR THEFT

This is to advise of a complaint made to the United States

Attorney's (USA) Office, Miaml, by O. B. Cline, a former Assistant

United States Attorney now in practice of criminal lav in Miami, that

the FBI had intimidated Joseph Merola by insisting that he becone a sti

pigeon or his probation would be revoked and people would be advised hi

was an informant.

The SAC, Miami, obtained an affidavit from

Sa H. Wayne Swinney who interviewed Merola and the action of

•SA Swinney indicates he used poor judgment in the interview.

BACKGROUND:

OTHER 4

Victins Edith and Fritz Werner Dorigo who own and operate

the Hofbrau Haus restaurant, Hallandale, Florida, on the evening of

3/20/61 were robbed by two

armed white bandits who wore gloves and had

stockings over their faces.

Miami Informant|

advised he believed

Joseph Merola's "two boys" had comnitted this robbery.

He based this

the fact that imediately following the robbery Merola had in his

possession expensive jewelry. Merola has a gun equipped with a

silencer and this type weapon was used in the robbery.

Merola has an extensive criminal record dating back to

1947. He is now serving & two-year probationary sentence 1n

connection with an Inmigration and Naturalization Service matter.

Merola until recently was an informant of the Miami Office and has

in phe past cubished information primarily concernine "eas

shipments to Cuba.

INTERVIEY OF JOSEPE MEROLA:

B APR 26 1961.

Merola voluntarily appeared at the Miami Office

_од 419/61

and was thoroughly interviewed by SA Swinney as a suspect in this

case.

He denied participation in the robbery or any knowledge of it.

He refused to submit to a polygraph examination or furnish an allbi.

1 - Administrative

1 - Mr. C. A. Evans

Alton

1961

Yen 6. R

NW 45876 DocId:32334057 Page 2

---

