# docid-32989662

## Page 1

File #:

62-10-116395

Serial Scope:

852

HH 55277

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SSC LETTER 8/20/75

ITEM # 1

75412/19/0035

Re 852

tri-10÷55

HH 55247

DocId: 32989662 Page 2

---

## Page 3

OFFICE OF

THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

inde

1120 322hm/7TG

ZOOKAD RION CONTAINE

Life oi

M. tries.

silicate sericellances anal un

shall be was chis is jens

the toca-731 pigle astes the firin

time to time necil, be insted

un sine argent of ustiller -

.?..

Mr. Hoover

Obviously these are particularly

delicate surveillances and we

should be very cautious in terms

the non-FBI people who may from

time to time necessarily be involved

in some aspect of installation.

Ndek (Katzenbach)

REC- 4

7184

2X-103

6 JAN IO 1965

1.15%

- id

Dress.

Baitin

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

nation outside your Committeg.

Lis use is limited to official proceedings on

your committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the fBl.

.336

HH 55247 DocId: 32989662 Page-3

---

## Page 4

OFFICE OF

THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

#MOR16

CATION CONTARTED

dir. Tolson -

air. DeLoache

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

dir. Conrad

Mr. Felt -

74

Mr. Sullivan -

Mr, Tori

Air. Trotler -

Mr. Wick -

Mr. topia-

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

O bures these are gu

Miss Gandy

silicate surveillences an un

should be we can to fees

tems to tea necessaul be instied

in some cagent of astill in -

Mr. Hoover -

Obviously these are particularly

delicate surveillances and we

should be very cautious in terms

the non-FBI people who may Irom

time to time necessarily be involved

in some aspect of installation.

Naek (Katzenbach)

REC-4

- 2184

2X-103

6 JAN I0 1065

Вій

Batis

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-.

nation outside your Commitee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel uithout the express aprovab of the fBl.

WH 55247

Docta: 34989662 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DO-7

o.c,

F.ROM

OFFICE OF DIRECTOR, FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICIAL INDICATED BELOW BY CHECK MARK

MR. TOLSON -

MR. DELOACH -

MR. MOHR -

MR. BISHOP -

MR. CASPER _

MR. CALLAHAN -

MR. CONRAD -

MR. FELT -

MR. GALE

MR. ROSEN _

• MR. SULLIVAN -

MR. TAVEL —

MR. TROTTER -

MISS HOLMES -

MISS GANDY _

ATT.

INFORMATION CONLAININ

ДИН В СОНАЗВІНИ

SEE ME

NOTE AND RETURN.

PREPARE REPLY -

SEND MEMO TO ATTORNEY GENERAL.

FOR YOUR RECOMMENDATION.

WHAT ARE THE FACTS? -

HOLD _

REMARKS:

Place in.

7-22-68

Martin Luther Kine, Jr.

Nishais deBinnine

This document is prepared in response to

your request and is not for dissemi

nation outside your Commi,-el.

•Its use is limited to official proceedings

by.

your Committee and the content may nut be pisclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express amproval of the FBl.

HH 55247 DocId:32989662 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Ison

• Loach

hs

shop

sper

llahan

nrad

le

sen

livan.

Ivel

btter

le. Room

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

1. - Mr. DeLoach 1 - Miss Holmes

• ME.

W. C. Sullivan

1 - Mr. Bishop

The Attorney General

June 10, 1969

1 - Mr. Gale (Attention: Mr. Devi:o

Director, FBI

JUNE

1 - Mr. G. C. Moore

1 - Mr. C. D. Brennan

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - COMMUNIST

(Attention: Mr. Rozamus)

1 - Mr. Glass

#M0R16

DECLASSIFIED BYSPA AL ETE

05 12-18-00

The following facts are being furnished for your

information concerning the telephone surveillance on the

residence of the late Martin Luther King, JI., authorized

by former Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy and installed

by this Bureau:

On July 16, 1963, an official of this Bureau

saw Mr. Kennedy at the latter's request. On that occasion,

Mr: Konnedy said ho was considering tue possibility vi a

telephone surveillance of King because of King's communist

associations. He was advised by the Bureau official that

since King was in travel status practically all the time,

the productivity of such a surveillance was doubtful and he

was

asked to consider the repercussions if it ever becane

known that such a surveillance had been instituted on King:

Mr. Kennedy said he was not concerned about possible reper-

cussions and that he thought it advisable to have as complete

coverage as possible in view of the possible communist influ-

ence in the racial situation. He was told that the feasibility

of such coverage would be determined and an appropriate

recommendation would be subnitted to him:

On July 25, 1963, Mr: Kennedy changed his mind

concerning his request and thought it ill advised at that

time, but on ictober 7, 1963, a request for authority to

place a telephone surveillance

on King's residence was sent

to Mr: Kennedy. Un October 10, 1963, he authorized this

100-106670

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATE NOTE PAGE THO

Unauthorized Disclosure

CIG: ekw

(11)

SENT FROM D. C

TIE SIZE

DATE 4 - 18-69

BY

552972DpcId: 32989662

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOp STRET

Gro

Excluded

ron automat

downyracin

i and

STYPE UNIT LE

cc is in PI - Martin Luther King: Ex.

---

## Page 7

The Attorney General

surveillance, and a surveillance on any future residence

of King, by his written signature.

This telephone surveillance was installed on

November 8, 1963, and was discontinued on April 30, 1965.

NOTE:

Because of the considerable publicity concerning

the telephone surveillance on the residence of the late

Martin Luther King, Jr., occasioned by the court hearings

in the Selective Service case of Cassius Clay, the facts

concerning the original request for this coverage by

Robert I. Kennedy, are being furnished to the Attorney

General.

Classified «Top Secretll because of sensitive

nature of the information contained therein, the unauthorized

disclosure of which could result in exceptionally grave damage

to the national security.

TOPSECRET

HH 55247 DocId:32989662 Page 7

---

## Page 8

TOE

SECRET

Mr.. Tolson

Mr. De Loach

Mr. Mohr -

Mr. Biehop

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

1 - Mr. DeLoach 1 - 1

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

1 - Mr.

W. C. Sulliva

Mr. Conrad -

1 - Mr. Bishop

Mr. Felt.

The Attorney General

Mr. Gale

June 10

Mr. Rosen

1 - Mr. Gale (Attenti

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Director, FBI

JUNE

1 - Mc. G. C. Moore

Mr. Trotter -

1 - Mr. C. D. Brennan

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER • COMMUNIST

WMDPIE 1 • ME. Glass

(Attention: Mr. H

Miss Gandy

DECLASSIFIED BY SR 2 ALMITTE

04 17-18-0

The following facts are being furnished for your

Information concerning the telephone surveillance on the

residence of the late Martin Luther King, JI., authorized

by former Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy and installed

by this Bureau.

On July 16, 1963, an official of this Bureau

saw Mr. Kennedy at the latter's request. On that occasion,

it: Konnedy said he was considering the possibility of a

telephone surveillance of King because of King's communist

associations. He was advised by the Bureau official that

since King was in travel status practically all the time,

the productivity of such a surveillance was doubtful and

was asked to consider the repercussions if it ever became

known that such a surveillance had been instituted on King:

Mr. Kennedy said he was not concerned about possible reper-

cussions and that he thought ii advisable to have as complete

coverage as possible in view of the possible communist influ-

ence in the racial situation. He was told that the feasibility

of such coverage would be determined and an appropriate

recomnendation would be submitted to him.

On July 25, 1963; Mr: Kennedy changed his mind

concerning his request and thought it ill advised at that

times

place

but on October 7; 1963, a request for authority to

a telephone survaillance on King's residence was sent

to Mic:

Kennedy, On Uctober 10; 1963, he authorized this

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr -

100-106570 NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATQTE PACE IWO

Bishop

Casper

CEG: elw d

Unauthorized Disclosure

Callahan

(III

Sulject to Criminal Sanctions

Consad.

Felt

Gale

SENT FROM D. O

TOP SICKET

Rosen

Group

Sullivan

Tacluded

Tovel

Trotter.

• end

Tolo, Rooms -Tr

Holmes --

Geedy

BY

ATTIN

Cc is in PF - Martin Luther King, Jr.

WH 55247 DotId: 32989662

Page

---

## Page 9

arial Romoval Charge Out

National Security

Eloctronia Surveillance Fil

$ 7,674 (Rev. 7-18-73)

Subject MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., SECURITY MATTER - COMMUNIST

COMMUNIST INELUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

This serial, the original memorandum from the FBI to the

Attorney General dated October 7, 1963

_, Which was

returned to the Bureau signed by the Attorney General

authorizing isl to conduct electronic surveillance, has

been, permanently removed for retention in the National

Security Electronic Surveillance File per memorandum T. J.

Smith to Mr. E. S. Miller dated 7-13-73.

See 62-115687-1

for details and where maintained.

Removed By_

SA Russell H. Horner

Date

12/13/73

Complete File and Serial Number

100-106670-254

#MORIE

ARL, INFORMATION CONTAINED,

ECHNIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DIE 12/18/00 BYSP 2AMLIG

WH 55247 DocId: 32989662 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SSC LETTER 8/20/75

ITEM # 8

Fimprel6

IN TAEARATION CONTAINLU

*ALVIN IS UNCLASSIZTED

32121800 EX SPEALM FIG

RETAIN

852

IT 15247 DocId: 32989662 Page 10

---

## Page 11

ALT INFORMATION CONTAINED

ImpRl6

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 12/28/00 BX SP-2 AZIN

= CITINAL EGEM NO. 10

i UNMET: STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. Belinont

DATE:

June 25, 1963

FROM

C. A. ' Evans

JUNE

SUBJECT:

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

De Loach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

sullivan

• Tavel

Trotter

Tole. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

Hats Nil

The Attorney General orally informed me today that he had been

considering the request he made on July 16, 1963; for a technical surveil-

lance on Martin Luther King at his home and office and was now of the

opinion that this would be ill advised..+

• .

Da

At the time the Attorney General initially asked for such a

surveillance, he was told there was considerable doubt that the

productivity of the surveillance would be worth the risk because King

travels most of the time and that there might be serious repercussions

should it ever become known the Government had instituted this coverage.

These were the very thoughts that the Attorney General expressed today

in withdrawing his request.

With reference to the other technical surveillance requested

at the same time, namely, the one on Clarence Benjamin Jones, the

Attorney General felt this was in a different fategory and we should go

forward with this coverage. It is noted that this was previously approved

in writing by the Attorney General.

The memorandum we sent to the Attorney General on

retrieved and is attached.

pay a 11s, tate authority for the King uveillance has been i

ACTIÓN TO BE TAKEN:

We will take no further action to effect technical coverage on

Martin Luther King, either at his home or at his office at the Southern

Christian Leadership Conference, in the absence of a further request

from the Attorney General.

Enclosure .

REG- 39,

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Mr. Rosen

:CAE:vap

NH 55247 DooId 32989662

natan outside your Committee Its use i united tor afficial proceedings bye

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed-to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

Page 11

---

## Page 12

OFFICEDE

: THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

Spial I en

#MDR16 :

ENCLOSURE

HH 55247

DocId: 32989662

Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. 100-106670

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

July 23, 1963

05 12-18-00

'MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

RE:

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - COMMUNIST

Martin Luther King, Jr., resides at 563 Johnson

Avenue, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia, and is the President of the

Southern Christian Leadership Conference, 330 Auburn Avenue,

Atlanta, Georgia.

He is closely associated with Stanley

Levison,

a concealed member of the Communist Party, USA,

Levison, has described King as being a wholehearted Marxist

who has studied Marxism, believes in it

agrees with it,

dare to espouse it publicly.

Pursuant to your request that in view of the

possible communist influence in the racial situation con-

sideration be given to placing a technical

surveillance on

King, it is requested that authority be granted to place a

technical surveillance on King at his

CurIent residenCe OI

at any future address to which he may move. It is further

it may be moved,

Respectfully,

APPROVED

DATE

Ighn Edgarl Hoover

Director

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclósure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

H₩ 55247 DocId:32989662 Page 13

GROUP

SHORET

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declaseification

ENCLOSURE

---

## Page 14

• ORTOMAS FORM NO. 10,

UNITED STATES GOVERI

ENT KOUND IN TH

Memorandum

TO

MR. BELMONT

JUNE

DATE:

7/16/63

FROM

C.

A.

Evans

cc Mr. Belmont

Mr. Sullivan

MT. Evans

Conrad

DeLoach

Gale

Rosen,, te

Saltivan

* Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

SUBJECT:

CONMUNIST INFLUENCE IN

RACIAL MATTERS

B'a

#MDRIG

AET IFORMATION CONTAINED

HanDEr IS UNgLASSIFIED

118/60 BX SP. ZAAZ

'Condition;

pl.c

+1 160-407018

Mannot

7/13/63

The AG was contacted at his request late this

afternoon.

He said that Clarence Benjamin Jones,

a NY attorney who has had close association with

Martin Luther King, and with Stanley Levinson

(a concealed communist), had been in to see Burke

marshall about the racial situation.

the AG, Jones had indicated he had some reserva-

tions about talking with Levinson on the phone.

Marshall thought he might have been referring to

possible telephone tap, and passed it oit by telling

Jones this was something he would have to take up

with Levinson.

CLEVISON

The purpose of the AG's contact was that this

brought to his attention the possibility of effect-

ing technical coverage on both Jones and Martin

Luther King.

I told the AG that I was not at all

"?'

acquainted with Jones, but that, in so far as King was

concerned, it was obvious from the reports that he

was in a travel status practically all the time, and

it was, therefore, doubtful that a technical surveillance

on his

office or home would be very productive.

I also

sraised the question as to the repercussions if it

should ever become known that such a surveillance had

been put on King.

REG- 9

114-3.116-

The AG said this dia hot concern him at all;

that in view of the possible communist influence

the racial situation, he thought it advisable to

have as complete coverage as possible.

under the circumstances, that we would check into thei

matter to see if coverage was feasible and, if so,

would submit an appropriate recommendation

to him.

I$

you approve, we

will have a preliminary

survey

made

tol see if technical coverage is feasible with full'

security. This document is prepared in response to your request and is not on

dissemi-

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

Tee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel with

CAN: 057

/(4)

the

at do ones

Dorans?

Sullivan

• НЫ 55247

DooId: 32989662

Page 14'

---

## Page 15

ROUTE

ENVELOPE

CODE

TYRE

URGENT

7/17/63

1'-

Mr.

Mx.

Belmont

Mr.

Evans

Sullivan

Мт .

McGowan

Mr.

Bland

MY .

Donobue

Mr.

Shaw

RE

4..

TO SACS

ATLANTA

NON YORK

ALL INFORMATION CONTAIN

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

FROM DIRECTOR IBI

DATE 12-18-0087 5F2 AER TEA

JUNE, CONHUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL HATTERS.

IN VIEW OF THE FOSSIBLE COLMUNIST INKUENCE IN THE RACIAL

SITUATION, ATJOINTY GENERAL, HAS REQUESTED HAT TEGINICAL,

SURVEILLANCES ILMEDIATILY BE PLACID ON MAZON LUTHER KING, LEADER

OF THE-SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADIRSHIP CONFENCE, AND CLARENCE

INUT ONES.A NEY ORK CITY ATTORNEY HIS CLOSES ASSOCIATED

VITA KING AS WELL AS WITH STANLEY LEVISON, A CONCEALED COMINIST.

TIE PURPOSE Of THE COVERAGE IS TO UNCOVER FIDENCE OF COMMUNIST

PARTICIPATION. AND DIRECTION IN RACIAL MARTES. PROVIDED FULLE

SECURITY IS ASSURED, NEW YORK AND ATLANTA SHOULD INMEDIATELY jAKE

MOST DISCREET SURVEYS TO DETERUINS II TACURICAL SURVEILLANCES ON

KING AND-JONES ARE FEASIBLE AND CAN BE CONVICTED WITH FULL SECURITY.

EXPEDITE HANDLING AND SUTEL RESULTS, TOGETRAI WISH YOUR RECONMENDATIONS

(9) 1

NOTE:

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale.

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Rooy

Holmes

Gandy

ANG .2TL ROOME

HH. 554V/006rd:62989662

See memorandum Mr. Ivans to Mr. Bahont 7/16/68 same caption. |

See memorandum Baungardner to Sullian 7/17/63 same caption;

GS: kmJ This docriment is prépared in response to your request and is not for dissemt

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings or

your committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel i our my oke approval of: the FBL

JUL 1 7 1963

ENCIPHERED

TELETYPE UNIT L

Page 15

---

## Page 16

оргона: FORM, NO. 10

UNITED STATES GO

Memorandum

I

ROUTE IN

MY ELOPE

TO

: Mr. W. C. SullivanW

DATE:

July 17, 1963

JUNE

FROM

ос.

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

Calichar

orad -

Deloach &

Evans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan atte

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy .

SUBJECT:

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN

RACIAL MATTERS

Ban 93111

Memorandum Evans to Belmont 7/16/63 discloses

that in view of the possible communist influence in the

racial situation, the Attorney General

has requested that

technical surveillances be placed immediately on martin Lucher

King, leader of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference,

and Clarence Benjamin Jones, a New York City attorney, Who

is closely associated with king. Memorandum points out that

if the Director approves, steps will be taken toward having

a preliminary survey made to see if technical surveillances

are feasible and can be conducted will full security.

Director noted "Yes" and also inquired "What do our

files

The

show on Jones?"

ACTION:

(1) There is attached a teletype to Atlanta and New York

instructing that discreet surveys to determine if technical

surveillances on King and Jones are feasible and can be

conducted with full security.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 12/18100 BY SP-2 HITNE

(2) A separate memorandum is being prepared covering

the Director's question relative to what our files show con

cerning Jones.

Enc, 2euet

7-17-63

]

Kix. Belmont

MT .

Evans

Mr. Sullivan

Mr.

McGowan

MX.

Bland

Mr. Dononue

- Mr. Shaw

GNE,

є 3і іст-

-116

WESS

22 JUL26 1963,..

This document

prepared in response to your request and is nat.

for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to officia mroceedings by

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to untuthorized person

JUL31

1963

nel without the express approval of the EBla

55247

Do0Id:32989662

Page 16

---

## Page 17

1-3 (Rev. 4-17-63)

• AIRGRAM

ROUTE IN

WTHLOPE

DECODEDICOPY

• CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

X TELETYPE

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gole.

nose

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

URGENT

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC NEW YORK

7019-03

12:22 AM

DE/SAV

190100

JUNE.

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL

MATTEROS

REFERENCE BUREAU TELETYPE JULY 17, 1963°

AUTHORIZED TECHNICAL SURVEILLANCE

SURVEY CONDUCTED

JULY 18, 1963 DISCLOSED COVERAGE FEASIBLE ON KINGSBRIDGE 92804.

AT RESIDENCE OF CLARENCE BENJAMIN JONES, 5505 INDEPENDENCE AVENUE,

BRONX, NEW YORK: ON LEXINGTON 2-2989, LEXINGTON 2-2990,

#m0e16

ATT. INFORMATION CONTAINED

UTRIIN IS UNCLASSITTED

BY SPLAtiN

DATE 12/18/00

LEXINGTON 2-2998, AT OFFICE OF GANDHI SOCIETY FOR HUMAN RIGHTS,

15 EAST 4OTH STREET, NEW YORK CITY: ON BEEKMAN: 3-3690, CODED

TRUNK G 55: BEEKMAN 3-5660, BEEKMAN 3-5661, BEEKMAN 38340, AND

BEEKMAN

3-83413 AT OFFICE OF LUBELL, LUBELL AND JONES, 165

BROADWAY.

NECESSARY LEASED LINE LETTER TO BEAD FROM POLE NUMBER 2

RIVERDALE AVENUE AT CORNER OF 254TH STREET WEST, BRONX, NEW YORK.

SECOND LEASED LINE LETTER SHOULD READ FROM SUB-BASEMENT OF

15 EAST 40TH STREET, NEW YORK CITY. NO LEASED LINE LETTER

NECESSARY FOR 165 BROADWAY ADDRESS.

BUREAU AUTHORITY REQUESTED TO INSTALL TECHNICAL SURVEILLANCE

ON ALL LINES: FULL SECURITY ASSURED.

JONES IS GENERAL COUNSEL FOR GANDHI SOCIETY FOR HUMAN

RIGHTS AND ALLEGEDLY

IS AT THE OFFICE OF THIS SOCIETY MORE OFTEN

THAN HE IS AT HIS LAW OFFICE AT 165 BROADWAY.

INFORMATION NYO FILES REFLECTS THAT THIS SOCIETY WAS FORMED

TO SUPPORT MARTIN LUTHER KING.

IT WAS

• TO BE:A. NON-ACTION AGENCY,

THE AIMS OF WHICH WERE TO BE MAINLY, OF AN EDUCATIONAL NATURE.

anton triant

carol, it

incbaciic..

RECEIVED:

12:55 AM

feed 12wp9s

Aviter

7/23/63 westling

Si Do Then

Ci

This document is prepared, p

nation outside your

your committee and the content may nut be faschospanto uncuonorazed person

nel unthout the express approval of the FBI

13c..

If the intelligence contamell in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureay, i is suggestedithat ii be suitabis

3 HH

55247

DooId:32989662

Page 17

---

## Page 18

1-3 (REV: 1-17-63)

ROUTE IN ENTELOPE

DECODEDICOPY

D AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

• RADIO

XX TELETYPE

Toison

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Calichen

Contad

DeLoach

Evans

Gole

Rosen

Tavel

Trotter

Teie. Room

Holmes

Gand

URGENT

7020-65

TO DIRÉCTOR

FROM

SAC ATLANTA

1:36 AM EST

JP

1:92347

8151

JUNE.

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS.

confett or

7110

RE BUTEL JULY 17 LAST AND ATLANTA RAD JULY 18 LAST.

SURVEY REFLECTS TECHNICAL SURVEILLANCE INSTALLATION

I FEASIBLE WITH APPROPRIATE SECURITY ON FOUR TRUNKS, SERVING MARTIN

LUTHER KING, JR. = SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE,

330 AUBURN AVERS ATLANTA• TECHNICAL WILL BE MONITORED IN ATLANTA

OFFICE SPACE THROUGH USE OF LEASED LINE. ANTICIPATED THAT FOUR

INVESTIGATIVE CLERKS ASSIGNED WILL BE USED FOR MONITORING AND

COST OF LEASED LINE UNKNOWN.

TECHNICAL REQUESTED BY ATTORNEY GENERAL TO UNCOVER EVIDENCE

OF CONMUNIST PARTICIPATION AND DIRECTION IN RACIAL MATTERS.

IF APPROVED FOR INSTALLATIONS THREE DIAL RECORDERS COMPLETE,

TWO TAPE RECORDERS AND A PLAYBACK UNIT FOR TRANSCRIBING TAPES WILU

BE REQUIRED FOR USE IN ATLANTAO

RECEIVED:

#MORIG

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

2:49 AM

EFH"

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

DATE 12/12/00BYSP-2 AmATe

Vin Banertnen Sellerin.

Ix s

" "«

1116-174

Smic

7/13/63 WUGS: tony

REC E211-5-116244

KOURUNKIEN

25487251

: = AUG $ 1963

T'has document is prepared in response to

your request and is not for dissemi-

nations outside your Cormitee.

Is use is lmid tamal proceedings by

100-3-116

your Committee and the conient may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person-

nel without the express approval of the FBI .

If the intelligence contained in the above messuge is in he disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

HH 55247

DooId: 32989662

Page 18

---

## Page 19

ornor'al coRn so. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERN

IT ROUTD IN EN

Memorandum

JUNE

TO

Mr. W. C. Sullivan

DATE:

FROM

Mr o

Jo

Baumgardnerk

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoache

•Evans

Gale

Rosent

sullivan.

slave!

*Trotter -

Tele. Roon

Holmes

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING,

JR.

SECURITY MATTER • COMMUNIST

July 22, 1963

Mr.

Belmont

Mx®

Evans

-

-

-

MY •

Rosen

Sullivan

MT .

Bland

-

-

MLX

Donohue

Mr Shaw

This is a recommendation requesting the Attorney General's

authority for the installation of a technical surveillance covering

#MDX16

the home telephone of Martin luther kingshe as well as the tele-

phone covering the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, of which

AIL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERCIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

_BYSP-2 ALM

King is the President.

You will recall that on 7/16/63 the Attorney General advised

Assistant Director Evans that in view of the possible communist influ-

ence in the racial situation, he desired that consideration be given

12-18-00

to placing a technical surveillance on Martin Luther king, Jr., leader

of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and Clarence Benjamin

Jones, a New York City

attorney, who is closely

associated with king.

The Attorney General indicated he was not concerned with the reper-

cussions if it should ever become known that such surveillances had

DATE

been put into effect and that he thought it advisable to have as com

plete coverage as possible.

King resides at 563 Johnson Avenue, N.L., Atlanta, Georgia,

and is, the President of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference,

330 Auburn Avenue, Atlanta.

King is on the, Reserve Index. He is

closely associated with Stanley Levison, a concealed member of the

Communist Party, USA, King has been described-by Levison as a whale-

hearted Marxist ho has studied Marxism, believes in it,agrees with

HH 55247

espouse it publicly

Pursuant to the Attorney General's request that considera-

tion be given to placing a technical surveillance on Ring, our Atlanta

Office was requested to conduct a survey to ascertain if such coverage

is feasible and could be conducted with lull security. Atlanta tele-

type 7/20/63 discloses that technical coverage on King is leasible and

can be conducted with full security.

At present there are 58 investigative-type technical sur-

veillances in operation and 6 being installed. The limit is 75.

A separate memorandum requesting Attorney General's author-

ity to place a technical surveillance on Clarence Benjamin Jones has

previously been submitted.

Enc.

100÷106670

This document is prepared Altes dnife your request and in a

190

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to offial proceedings by

your committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

(9)

DocId:32989662

nel without the express approval of the FBI .

---

## Page 20

Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan

RE:

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

100-106670

OBSERVATION:

In view of the Attorney General's request that our coverage

Ibe as complete as possible, it is felt that we should institute cov-

erage not only on King's residence, but also on his office at the

Southern Christian Leadership Conference.

RECOMMENDATION:

That the attached memorandun for the Attorney General go

forward requesting authority to install a technical surveillance oi

Kings residence, as well as his office at the Southern Christian

Leadership Conference.

wes

OK.

SEE MEMO EVANS TO BELHORT 7/25/63, CAPTIONL

IWARIN LUTHER FINE, IS WHICH SINES ATTORNEY

GENERAL RECANSIDERED AND DISAPPRIVA REQUEST

FOR TESYR.

- 2=

HN 55247 DocId:32989662 Page 20

---

## Page 21

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

SERRET

100-106670

94L L2-18-00

1-Belmont

1-Evans

I-ROSEn

I-Sullivan

I-Baumgardner

1-Bland

I-Donohue

1-Shaw

July 23, 1963

JUNE

MENORANDUL FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

RE:

MAREEN LUTHER

KING,

JR.

SECURITY MATTER - COMMUNIST

SHIRE

Avenue, NoTe, Atlanta, Georgiz,

Southern Christian Loadership Conference, 380 Auburn

svenue,

Atlanta, Georgia.

He is closely associated with stanley.

bevison, & concealed nember of the Communist Party, USA.^

Levison

has described King as being a wholehearted Marxist

who

has scudied Karxism, believes inatt

agrees with it's

but because of his being a minister of religion does not

dare to

espouse it publicly.

seritin foreign intelligen

Pursuent to your request that in view of the

possible communist intluence in the racial situatIon con

sideration be given to placing a technical surveillance on

it is requested that authority be granted to place a

technical surveillance on King at his, current residence or

at say future address to which

he nay move.

It is further

requested chat authority be granted to place a technical

survellence on the southern Christian Leadership Conierence

of which king is President of at any future address to which

it may be moved.

ist

SENT

TIMI

DATE

BY

Farm

72513

Respectfully,

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Johi

1 Babiesto" riminal Sanctions

Director

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room.

APPROVED

DATE

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

WGS : kni

(11)

55247

DocId: 32989662

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 21

RECI

70r 53

15 3864,23

g.100e9s

i .!

33

GROUP

Excluded

•om automatic

and

declassification

22 JUL 26 1963-5.

---

## Page 22

Memorandum for the Attorney General

NOTE:

This memorandum classified "Secret" since it refers

to á techniorl surveillance, the unauthorized disclosure of

which could be detrimental to the national security.

See memorandum Baungardner to Sullivan 7/22/63

captioned "Martin Luther King, JI., Security Matter -

Communist," WGS:kmj .

-2 -

SIORIT

HH 55247 DócId: 32989662

Paye 22

---

## Page 23

ROUTE

NVELOPE

CODE

7/23/63

1

TELETYPE

URGENT

1

Mr.

Bland

-

Mr.

Donohue

- Mr.

Shaw

TO SAC ATLANTA OC. A.

ALT, INFORMATION CONTAINE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEI

DATE 2/18LOO BY SEZALN

FROM DIRECTOR FBI (100-3-116)

JUNE. COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS.

REURTEL JULY TWENTY LAST ADVISING TECHNICAL SURVEILLANCE

ON SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE, THREE THREE ZERO

AUBURN AVENUE, ATLANTA, FEASIBLE AND CAN BE CONDUCTED WITH FULL

SECURITY: PROVIDED FULL, SECURITY ASSURED IMMEDIATELY MAKE MOST

DISCREET SURVEY TO DETERMINE IF TECHNICAL SURVEILLANCE

ON HOME

TELEPHONE OF MARTIN LUTHER KING IS FEASIBLE AND CAN BE

CONDUCTED WITH FULL SECURITY. SUTEL RESULTS.

iN 5

NOTE:

RePr

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tarel

Trotter

"ale. Rosm.

'NOS

HH 552.

Attorney General has requested as complete coverage

as possible on Martin Luther King in view of possible comnunist

influence in the raclal situation.

Atlanta has made survey

relative to King's organization,

Southern Christian Leadership

Conference, but in order to afford complete coverage it 1s felt

that Atlanta should also conduct survey relative to feasibility

of placing technical surveillance on King's home telephone.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to officiat proceedings by

-

•your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to anauthorized person-

nel without the express ampront of the EBl.

MA, TELETYPE

7:.

JU 231963

55 5h

+ 533

ENCIPHERED

REC- 5

E2 JUL 25-7963

196FY TELETYPE UNIT

- DocId: 32989662

Page 23

1H:112ED

DIRESICK'S CFFICE

---

## Page 24

4-3 (Rev. 4-17-63)

DECODED COPY

AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

A RADIO

• TELETYPE

URGENT

7-24-63

TO DIRECTOR

FROM

SAL ATLANTA

242045

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFLED

DATE) 2/18/00 BISPAALI

JUNE, COMMUNIST INFLUENCE, IN RACIAL MATTERS.

REBUTEL JULY 23 LAST.

SURVEYS COMPLETED. SERVICE FURNISHED TV RESIDENCE

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., 563 JOHNSON AVENUE, ATLANTA, BY

ONE TRUNK USING NON-LISTED NUMBER. PUBLIC UTILITY WILL

FURNISH LEASED LINE TO FIELD OFFICE HEADQUARTERS FOR

MONITORING. TECHNICAL SURVEILLANCE FEASIBLE WITH FULL

SECURITY. NO OTHER TECHNICALS IN EFFECT ON RESIDENCE.

SERVICE FURNISHED TO OFFICE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN

LEADEGSHIP CONFERENCE, 330 AUBURN AVENUE, ATLANTA, BY FOUR

TRUNK LINES. PUBLIC UTILITY WILL FURNISH LEASED LINES

TO FIELO OFFICE HEADQUARTERS. TECHNICAL SURVEILLANCE

FEASIBLE WITH FULL SECURITY. NO OTHER TECHNICALS IN EFFECT

ON SOLC OFFICE.

INSTALLATIONS RECOMMENDED. ADVISE IF DESIRED AND IF

SO FORWARD ATLANTA FOUR DIAL RECORDERS COMPLETE, THBEE

TAPE RECORDERS AND ONE PLAYBACK UNITeN

RECEIVED:

5:36 PM

Teletype to into re I 55,

1/2563

5-WES

7/25/63

4 P.

Toinen

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Caliahan

Conrad

DeLauch

EvanE

Gale

Roger

Sulliver

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

EX-123

# AUG 2 ' 1963

1963

T'his document is prepared in Fesponse lo our request and is not for dissemi

nation outside your Committee.

Its use i limited to official proceedings by

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

If the intelligence contained in Mel without the empress sarang disithee Bledu, it is suggested that it be suitably.

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

• HH 55247 DocId: 32989662 Page 24

---

## Page 25

7-24-83

-CODE

r./.

BEG F2

TELETYPE

100-3-116-44

TO SACS ATLANTA

MOBILE

SAVANNAH

BIRMINGHAM

URGENT

ALL INPORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

JUNE

• COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS.

REATRAD JULY EIGHTEEN LAST, BULET TO ATLANTA JULY

NINETEEN LAST AND ATRAD JULY TWENTY LAST.

IF APPROVAL IS GRANTED AND INSTALLATION MADE IN REFERENCED

CASE, MOBILE WILL FURNISH ONE ADDITIONAL MAGNECORD TAPE

RECORDER, SAVANVAN WILL FURNISH ONE DIAL RECORDER COMPLETE

Fir

AND BIRMINGIAM VL FURNISH ONE & THREE TAPE TRANSCRIBER UNIT.

IN EVENT OFFICES CANNOT FURNISH EQUIPMENT, BUREAU SHOULD

BE NOTIFIED IMMEDIATELY. ALL OFFICES SUBMIT APPROPRIATE FD

TWO TWO TWO FORMS.

ATLANTA WILL ADVISE OFFICES CONCERNED

WGS:CF (8)

mes y

WHEN EQUIPMENT NEEDED.

NOTER BYI

nilet i7/19/03 Atienta was furlahed two dial

Tolson

recorders

and one diagneca. tape recorder.

Belmon!

Mohr

nar Si

Casper.

Callahan .

NR.

217209

Conrad -

DeLoach — Hirs

pument is

pared in response to your quest andes, not for diss

Evans _

ration joltside your

Committee.

Its

Gole .

ommittee and the content may

t be: irsclosed to unduct

pers

Sulli

Tavel

thout the express

approval of

Trotter

"ale. Room

VIA TELETYPE

ĐLL 24 1963

6:45 pm getT

NCIPHERED

2

---

## Page 26

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

hirtel

#MPRIG

AGI INFORMATION CONTAINEL

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIZD

DATE 12 18/00 BY SP-2 ALTHIE

July 26, 1963

1 - Mr. Millen

(Room 7112 JB)

I - Mr. Bland

1 - Mr. Donohue

1-

• Mr. Shaw

10:

SAC, Atlanta.

From:

Director, FBI 4300

BARZEN LUSTER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATEIR - C

• *

SUN E

Reurtel 7/24/63 "Communist Influence in Racial

Matters' advising technical surveillance feasible on residence

of Martin Luther King, Jro, as well as Southern Christian

Leadership Conference.

The Attorney General has disapproved technical

coverage on King and. the Southern Christian Leadership Con-

ference.

Therefore, no further action is to be taken in

this matter.

1

- 'Birniughan

- Mobile

NOTE:

Memorandum Evans to Belmont 7/25/63 discloses

that the Attorney General orally advised on 7/25/63 that

he now considers request for technical coverage on King

that he made 7/16/63 to be ill advised; that in view of

King's constant travel status there was considerable doubt

that productivity of technical coverage would be worth the

riSK.

Therefore we are instructing Atlanta to take no

further action in this matter.

• 1124

BRECHAL

-

1:-167

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

---

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

+ 0864,03

JULE E 1965

COMMIFAI

22 JUL 80,1963 1C

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter.

Tele. Roan

1963

Loris

dave? is prepared in response to you request and is not !

Holmes

nation ostside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings br

Gandy

MAIL ROOM

no enout tee ap the content mo not scisclosed to unauthorized person.

1H 55247

DocId: 32989662 Page

---

## Page 27

TO

FROM

OF. IONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1902 EDITION

_GEA GEN. FAG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES GO

ERNMENT

Memorandum

CONTAINED

Mr. W. C. Sullivanul?

INFORMATION

UNCLASSIFIED

J. F.

Bland

HEREIN

DATEIZ

Toison

Belinont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Coar

Delsach

yans

DATE: September 6, 1963

-Bale

*, Rosen

JUNE

i fallin

Tave!

-Trotter.

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

. - Mr. Belmont

SUBJECT:

MARTIN LUTHER KING

SECURITY MATTER - C

JR.

1

- MI. Mohr

1

- Mr. Sullivan

1

- Mr. Evans

1 - MI. Rosen i

. - Mr. Bland

1

- Mr. Donohue

1 - Mr. Forsyth

Martin Luther King, JI•,

the well-known Southern Negro

leader who is President of the. Southern 'Christian Leadership Conference

Marxism, believes In, agrees with it,

a minister

appeared, before the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee and

refused to answer questions concerning his membership in the crie

Levison continues to act as advisor to King.

In June of 1962,

recommended

that King hire Hunter Pitts O'Dell

assistant.

as an administrative

King, acting upon this advice, hired O'Dell in this

capacity but on November 2, 1962, as a result of a newspaper article

identifying O'Dell as a communist. King announced that O'Dell had

resigned from this position and his resignation had been accepted.

¡ However,

O'Dell, under the

pseudonyn cornelius James, SchC office in New York City.

was elected to the

., National

Conmittee of the CP in 115%.

Information developed during August,

1963, indicates that

maintains intimate relationships with _at least

Three women, one in Atlanta, one in we vernor, very and one se

Washington, Do C

OBSERVATIONS:

King's cuplicity is amply illustrated in his public'

announcements concerning O'Dell's lack of connections with the SeLC

as mentioned above, O'Dell was observed entering and

Lethang the New York office of the SCIC as late as August 30, 1963-

King's extramarital affairs while posing as a minister of the

leave him highly susceptible o coercion and possible blacknal ape,

most

important, in view of his continued, close association and

willingness to

accept advice and submit to the influence of such

communists as Levison

and O'Dell, we should have as complete coverage

as possible of King's activities.

A large part of the information

set out above as well as a great deal of additional information

of interest has been developed through technical coverage of close

26.EE

'nes' document is are

Dared in response to more set on i he e

120 Committee and the content men see nanted to tarthorised perso

thout the express approval of the FBI. gOnG MAIL RaL

---

## Page 28

Memorandum for Mr. Sullivan

RE:

MARTIN DUTHER KING, JR.

100-106670

associates of King,

such as Stanley Levison and Clarence B. Jones,

a former member of the Labor Youth League who is head of the Gandhi

Society for Human Rights of which King is honorary chairman.

as well

as the offices of the above society.

It is believed that additional

data of extreme interest in this matter could be obtained through

technia coverage or the scisidence in Atlanta and the Atlanza

RECOMMENDATION:

There is attached a proposed airtel instructing Atlanta

to conduct a survey as to the feasibility of installing a technical

surveillance

on King's residence,

as well as the offices of the SCLC.

Copies of this airtel are also being forwarded to the New York office

with instructions to conduct a

similar survey on the New York office

of the SCLC.

Wes

!

- 2 -

HH 55247

'DocId: 32989662 Page 28

---

## Page 29

Airtel

1 - Mr. Belmont

- Mr. Mohr

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1

- Mr. Evans

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Bland

1.

- Mr. Donohue

~ MT. Forsyth

September 6, 1963

TO: SACS,

Atlanta (100-5586)

New York (100-126585)

From: Director, FBI

MARTIN LUTHER

• &ING

SECURITY MATTER - C

J.

•.

JUNG

#MDRI

AZZi INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERE / 00 55 2 2m 7

Atlanta is directed to conduct a survey for tesur on

the headquarters of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference

(SCLC) and the residence of Martin Luther King, Jr.

the New York tele sent soled to conduct a similar survey on

Full security should be assured prior to making this survey.

NOTE:

TDR/mea.

WTF/mea

(13)

See memo Bland to Sullivan, same date, same caption,"

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissem

nation outside your Committee.

• lamazed to orficial proceedings by

your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

net without the express approvat of the FBI .

- гр - 61963

COMM-FBE

Tolson

Belmont

27.

Mohr -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan .

Tavel

Ton SEP 13 .363

NG X5217 DocId:32589662

REC-25 ,

204

PICT 30S

22 SEP: 1011963

---

## Page 30

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

1 1962 ELITION

TO GEN,

KEG.

NO. 27

GNITED STATES G

ERNMENT

Memorandum

to mar

C. Sullivan

ALI TNTORMAMIGE COUR

UNCEASSIO

DATE:

Tolson

o Belmon:

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

•Sohrad

De Loacin

TO

"Mr.

FROM

Mr.

Jo

F.

JUNE

Elapor

October 4, 1963

Rosen

pier

Sullivan

'Fevel

•Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

1 - Mr. Belmont-

Mr.

Mohr

SUBJECT:

MACTEN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER -

1

1

Mr.

Sullivan

-

Mr o

Evans

Mr.

Rosen

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN

RACIAL MATTERS

Baumgardner

— MI.

Bland

1" - Mr.

Donohue

I. - Mr. Forsyth

Surveys have been made on'the residence of Martin Luther

King, JX., in Atlanta, Georgia, and the headquarters of the Southern

Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) in New York City. These

surveys indicate it is feasible to install technical surveillances

on these places with full security.

16

You will recall that on 7/16/63 the Attorney General

advised Assistant Director Evans that in view.of the possible

communist influence in the racial situation, he desired that consider

ation be given to placing a technical surveillance on Martin Luther

sing, dro, leader of the sche, and Clarence B. dones, a New York City

attorney

who is closely associated with king and involved in the

racial movement.

The Attorney General at that time indicated he

was not concerned with

the repercussions 11 it should ever become.

known that such surveillances had been put into effect and that he

thought it advisable to have complete coverage.

However, when such

i request was made of the Attorney General on 7/22/63, he

rejected

coverage on King.

King resides at 563 Johnson Avenue, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia

and is president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference,

330 Auburn Avenue, Atlanta.

The New York office of the SCLe' islocated

at 312 West 125th

Street, New York City.

King is closely

associated with

Rth Stanley Levison,

2.51

a concealed

member of the Communist Party, USA (CPUSA). King has been described

does nor dare

The Attorney General has approved coverage on Stanley Levison,

Clarence B. Jones, and the Gandhi Society for Humar Rights.

These

installations have been extremely productive in showing the influence

EnCo

100-106670

d 9 21.03

1:100-3-116

document is prepared in response to oar request' and is not for

assemi-

1363

Its use is limitsd to official proceedings by

P..;

ir committee and the conterilmay nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel withour the express approval of the EBl.

WH 55247426

DocId: 32989662

Page 30

---

## Page 31

Memorandum for Mr. Sullivan

MARTIN' LUTHER KING: TRo.

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN

RACIAL MATTERS

100-106670

100-3-116

of Levison on King as well as Levison's behind-the-scenes

influence

in the racial movement.

At present there are 57 investigative-type

technical surveillances in operation andüre are awaiting

installation.

The limit is 75.

OBSERVATIONS:

In view of the Attorney General's request that our

¿coverage be as complete as possible and because of the communist

influence in the racial movement shown br activities of Stanley

LevIson as welt as King's connection with him, it is believed

desirable to put all possible coverage on the racial leaders in

order to obtaIn full Intormation.

RECOMMENDATION:

That the attached be sent to the Attorney General

requesting authority to install technical surveillances on King's

residence in Atlanta, Georgia, and the SCiC headquarters in

New York City.

- 2-

HH 55247 DooId:32989662 Page 31

---

## Page 32

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAIION

Room 5744

10/7

_, 1963

TO:

Director

" Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Mr. DeLoach

Mr.

Evans

Mr.

Rosen

Mr.

Callahan

Mr.

Casper

Mr Tolsor

MA. Bubnon

Mr.

Casper.

Ve. Calaran7

Conrad

r. DaT nach..

Evans.

Mr. Gale

Air. Rosen.

* MT. Gale

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tafel..

#. Trotter..

Tele. Room.

iliss Holmes..

Miss Gandy..

Mr. Clayton

Miss Gandy

Miss Holmes

Personnel Files Section

Records Branch.

Mrs. Skillman

Mrs. Brown

John Quander

For appropriate action

Note and Return

ALL INTORMATION CONTAINED,

See Me

Send File

Please Call Me

I see no point in making this recommendation

to the Attorney General in view of the fact

that he turned down a similar recommendation

on July 22, 1063. A alte almon

ENCLOSURE

251

3

5 NOY M 1:3

• This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemì

nation outside your Commi'tee.

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

a come the end the content on the Bl o

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

NH 55247 •DocId:32989662 Page 32

---

## Page 33

SSC LETTER 8/20/75

ITEM * 2

ATL INFORMATIÓN CONTAININ

TREIN L

UNCLASSIRIIO

SE 12/8/00 DI5P2 ALNIO

4077jelu

wn/doe85 Doold: 32989662 Page 33

---

## Page 34

SERIAL

253

#mDR/6

ALE INPORMATION CONTAINED

TERZIN IS UNCEASSITIUD

•:1S12/18/00 BYSP-2 ALM TEA

HH 55247

DooId:32989662 Page

34

---

## Page 35

Ra COPTERAL FOR MA. 10+

• UNITED STATES GOVERN

NT

Memorandum

TO

MR. Ni C. SULLIVAN WE

FROM

MR. J. A. SIZOO

Tolson

Belmont

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

DATE:

10-22-63

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes.

Gandy

"SUBJECT:

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER

I-Mr. Sullivan

I-Hr. Conrad

11-Mr

Callahar

1-Mx.M. F. Row

I-Mr. Bland

1-Mr Baumgardner

• LOROnuE

maTo

Gilebutt

COMMUNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO QUESTION

I-Hr. Phillips

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

'Memorandum Sizoo to Sullivan 10-18-63 set forth certain requests

Of SAC McMahon of the Atlanta Office in connection with the

monitoring

of technical installations under consideration in connection with

captioned matter.

On 10-21-63, SAC Mclahon was advised thai the technical

installations on the residence of King and the Headquarters of the

Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCiC) had been approved.

He

was also advised that his request for the expenditure of $250 per

month

for a monitoring plant outside of the Atlanta Office was approved. In

connection with Atlanta's request for the services of an outside sound

man in connection with these installations, he was advised that the

services of Special Agent William F. Heist of the Miami. Office should

be obtained. (SAC McMahon is to arrange with the Miami Office for the

presence of

Special Agent Heist when he is needed.

file shows nothing which would prevent such an assignment. McMahon

was also advised that his request for additional technical equipment

ised that his rogue:

was being handled by a separate teletype sent to him on 10-21-63.

He

was advised that 1t any question arises as to the need of the Atlanta

Office for additional equipment, SA Baker of the Electronics Section

of the Laboratory is thoroughly familiar with the equipnent already

ordered and sent to Atlanta.

PALL INFORNATION CONTAINE

*MT6 HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFLE

ACTION:

DATE 12 18100 BYSPaAtMIATE

None, for information.

This memorandum records the following:

1) Authorization for Atlanta to install technical coverage

0f King at 563 Jonnson Avenue, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia, and on the

Headquarters of the SCLC, 330 Auburn Avenue, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia,

(SAC NcMahon is to furnish the date and time installed and the symbol

number of each installation and is to furnish a separate

complete

juscification and evaluation of the results of the cov

age within

30 days of installation.)

100-106670

.xt.

1 - 100-3-116

JAS: JFB:mjt

(14)

NOV Y

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation oviside vour Consides, "Its use is himited to official proceedings ou

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

HH 55247 DocId:32989662 Page 35

---

## Page 36

Memorandum to Mr. M. C. Sullivan

Re: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - C

COMMUNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

2) Authorization for expenditure of $250 per month for

monitoring plant.

3) Authorization to arrange with Miami Office for the services

of Special Agent William F. Heist for installation of technical equipment.

' - 2

HH 55247

DocId: 32989662

Page

36

---

## Page 37

SERIAL

255

ALE INFORHATION CONTAINS

HH 55247 DocId:32989662 Page 37

---

## Page 38

rushing

October 14, 1963

Airtel

MAILED 5

OCT 1 4 1963

COMM-FBI

TOS

From!

SAC, Atlanta (100-5586A)

Director, FaX: 60210870) - 255

JUNE

SECURITY MATIN

#MDR16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSI: LU

DATT 12 18100 BY SPa ALATE

Reurlet dated October 10, 1963.

existence of certain security hazards in connection with

the installation of tesur on the Southern Christian

Leadership Conference (SCLC): You indicate that a switch

of pairs in order to provide easier access in a more

desirable location is found to be impossible: Prior to

further consideration of this matter, the Bureau desires

auditional information as indicated below. .

1) Outline in detail the exact steps necessary

to effect a tesur installation on the office of

the 30LC.

Furnish a concise evaluation as to

whether full security can be assured utilizing.

& sound man from another office.

2) It is noted that in connection with this

proposed installation as well as the proposed

Installation in the case of King's residence

you nentioned in your airtel of October 3, 1963,

you proposed to locate the monitoring plant in

Headquarters facilities. In this connection,

avise whether the telephone cable serving the

Atlanta Office likewise serves other offices in

the building occupied by your office and/or any

adjacent britaings.

323.83

Tolson

Belmont

Kohr.

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

TOR: SCD

(4)

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Javel

Trotted

Tale, Robin

* NOV 131963

Holmes

Gandy

HH. 55247

MAIL ROOM

DoOId:32989662

This a gront i pr core i response to equest ort is or te dism

yout committee and the content may nut be disclosed io nauthorzed persoi

new itthout the express approval of the hBl a

TELETYPE UNIT

Sti l's

Page 38

---

## Page 39

Alrtel to Atlanta

Re: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

100-106670

Together with your reply covering the above

points, specify exactly what equipment you will need in

the event authority is granted to make the installation

on the SCLC office as well as the king residence.

Advise Bureau by return mail.

7W 55247 .D00I0:32989662

Page

39

---

## Page 40

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

5010-106-05

MAY 1852 EDITION

LO A GETY-REG. NO. 27

- UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-106670)

SAC, ATLANTA (100-5586A) (P)

DR. MARTIN LUTHER

KING, VR

-SM-C

DATE: 10/10/63

JUNE

#MDA16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINE?

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

•Re Atlanta airtel 10/5/63.

Enclosed herewith is a copy of FD 142 relating

to proposed Tesurs on subject and the Southern Christian

Leadership Conference (SCLC) :

Through sources, efforts were made to attempt to

switch certain pairs in order to facilitate the installation

of a lesur on the four pairs serving the located

SCLC Office as

cross frame where these pairs appear is

on a pole

inmediately in front of the SCLC Office.

this cross frame. is

visible through two large windows from within the Office

of SCLC and practically on the same level as the windows.

Source at Southern Bell has advised that such a

switch of pairs in order to provide easier access in a more

desirable location is not possible.

The only sound trained Agent in the Atlanta Office

and

time of the interview of Dr. KING, JR., a signed statement

was taken and the interview was of approximately two hours

duration. In the event installation of instant Tesur is

make the installation who is

authorized, Tets believed than a wound trained Are a shoul

unknown to subject and other

employees of SchC.

-

It is noted that by previous communication on

October 3, 1p63, results of survey was forwarded the Bureau

regarding

Tesur

on subject's

residence.

27

Bureau

2-

Atlanta

AFM: elt

(4)

(RM)

..,i

ya the content may nut be disclosed to una?

nel without the express approval of the FBl.

1H 55247

DooId: 32989662

Page 40

5

18 OCT 11 1963

note for

dissemi-

reedings

ized per

SPEC.

---

## Page 41

AT

100=5586A

AFM/elt

If installations are approved additional equip-

ment for plant operation is required as this office has

currently assigned to it two tape recorders, one 6A

amphlifier and one GAR dial recorder.

There are no play-

back units available Atlanta for transcription of tapes.

In view of the foregoing, if this installation

1s approved, Laboratory

is requested to send a technician

to Atlanta to make installation,

!

- 2.

HH 55247 DocId:32989662

Page 41

.-..

---

## Page 42

FD-142 (Rev. 6-2-61)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. "10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM

JUNE

(Bufile 100-106670) DATE: 10/10/63

SUBJECT:

ATI INFORMATION CONTAINWO

HERIN IS UNCLASSIRTSD

B.12E 12//8/00 B5 SP2ALN/TER

RECOMMENDATION FOR INSTALLATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVETLLANCE

"RE :

Iltle DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

Character. of Case SM-C

Field Office Atlanta

Symbol Number None

Type of Surveillance (Technical My reprone)

1.

Name and address of subject:

Office of Southern Christian Leadership Conference,

330

Auburn Avenue, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia

2. Location of technical operation:

Office space of Atlanta Office.

One I beti

524-1378

3. Other technical surveillances on same subject:

None at present in Atlanta.

55 274

OCT

4. Cost and manpower involved:

Cost of four leased lines plus services of four Investigative.

Clerks.

Exact cost of leased lines unknown but based on exact

wire mileage.

ENCLOSURE

This document is prepared in response to your hund is not for disemi s

1-255

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limitad to offirial proceearngs

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthoried person

nel without the express approval of the fBl .

067 7 I 1963

5. Adequacy of security:

Adequate security is provided if personmaking

is unknown to subject, Dr. KING

and

Staff of

inetallation man

southern Christ

Leadership Conference.

Registered Mail

WW 55247 DocId: 32989662 Paye 42

SUBYES,

---

## Page 43

6. Type of case involved:

Security matter investigation to determine degree of

influence CP has on mass Negro

organizations through Dr.

KING.

7. Connection or status of subject in the case:

DI. KING has in the past been in contact with concealed Cr

members, and former CP members.

As President of scLe, a

leading Negro mass Organization, organization and subject

are prime logical targets for influencing and infiltration.

8. Specific information being sought:

Degree of influence being exerted by CP on Dr. KING and

Southern Christian Leadership Conference and extent of contacts.

9. Reasons for believing the specific information will be obtained by the

technical surveillance:

Dr. KING's CP contacts are basically located in New York City

while he normally maintains office and residence Atlanta. It is

however noted Dr. KING is in almost constant travel status

10. Importance of case and subject:

DI. KING as President of Southern Christian Leadership Conference

has been elevated to the position of "National Leader" of the

Negro Civil Rights and Integration Movement as shown by recent

events.

so are.

HW 55247

DocId: 32989662 Page 43

---

## Page 44

11.

Possibilities of obtaining desired information by other means

(Explain in detail) :

With the constant travel status of Dr. KING, and his being

almost completely surrounded by members oi his own race who

are loyal to his cause, it is considered that this is the

only means by which desired information can be obtained.

12. Risks of detection involved:

Risks of detection are considered

at a minimum.

13. Probable length of technical surveillance:

Indefinite

14. Request made for technical surveillance by any outside agency

(name specific official, title and agency) :

None known to Atlanta Office.

-3-

HW 55247 DocId: 32989662 Page 14

---

## Page 45

15. Remarks:

In past when interviews have been conducted in the office

of Sotthern Christian Leadership Conference certain employees

when asked

a question, in a half joking and half serious

manner replied, "You should know that already, don't you

have our wires

tapped?" It is noted in the past, state of

Georgia has conducted investigations regarding subject and

Southern Christian Leadership Conference.

16.

Recommendation of Assistant Director:

- 4-

i HH 55247

DooId: 32989662

Page 45

... "=

---

## Page 46

FD-142 (Rev. 6-2-61)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNM

- Memorandum

TO C

DIRECTOR

SUBJECT:

JUNE

(Bufile 100-106670) DATE: 10/10/63

SAC, ATLANTA (100-5586A)

ALL INFORMATION CONTALNEU

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 12//8/00 BY SP2ALM /ETE

RECOMMENDATION FOR INSTATLATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

!

RE: Title DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

Character of Case SM-C

Field Office ATLANTA

Symbol Number None

Type of Surveillance (Technical 8x7487 noTE)

1. Name and address of subject:

Residence,

DI. MARTIN LUTHER KING,

JR.,

Atlanta, Georgia.

2. Location of technical operation:

Office space of Atlanta Office.

3. Other technical surveillances on same subject:

None at present in Atlanta.

563 Johnson Avenue, N.E.,

not lots

40

OcT

4. Cost and manpower involved:

Cost of one leased line, plus services of four Investigative

clerks. Exact cost of leased lines unknown,

but

based on

exact wire mileage.

PONCLUSURE

1-255

1s oot it 1963

5. Adequacy of security:

Security for installation is adequate

This document is prepared in response to your request an

nation outside your Committee.

Its ase is limited to

offe

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

Registered Mail

W 55247 DocId: 32989662 Page 46

notifor

dissem

proceedings

whorised persón

---

## Page 47

6. Type of case involved:

Security matter investigation to determine degree of

influence CP has on mass Negro organizations through Dr.

KING.

7. Connection or status of subject in the case:

DI. KING has in the past been in contact with concealed CP

members, and former CP members.

As President of Southern

Christian Leadership Conference, a leading Negro mass

organization, organization and

subject are prime logical

targets for influencing and infiltration.

8. Specific information being sought:

Negree of influence being exerted by CP on DI. KING and

Southern

Christian Leadership Conference and extent of

contacts.

9. Reasons for belleving the specific information will be obtained by the

technical surveillance:

Dr. KING's CP contacts are basically located in New York

Office while he normally maintains office and residence Atlanta.

It is however noted Dr. KING is in almost constant travel status.

10. Importance of case and subject:

Dr. KING as president of Southern Christian Leadership

Conference has been elevated to the position of "National

eader" of the Negro Civil Rights and Integration Movemen

as shown by recent

events. 2-

NW 55247 DocId:32989662 Page 47

---

## Page 48

1l. Possibilities of obtaining desired information by other means

(Explain in detail) :

With the constant travel status of Dr. KING, and his being

almost completely surrounded

I by members of his own race

who are loyal to his cause, it is considered that this is the

only

means by which desired information can be obtained.

12. Risks of detection involved:

Risks of detection are considered

at a minimum.

13. Probable length of technical surveillance:

Indefinite.

14. Request made for technical surveillance by any outside agency

(name specific official, title and agency) :

None known to Atlanta Office.

-3 -

NW 55247 DocId: 32989662 Page 48

---

## Page 49

15. Remarks:

In the past when interviews have been conducted in office

of Southern Christian Leadership Conference certain employees

when asked a questions, in a

half joking and half serious manner

replied, "You should know that already, don't you have our

wires tapped?" It is noted in the past, State of Georgia has

conducted investigations regarding subject and Southern

Christian Leadership Conference.

16. Recommendation of Assistant Director:

- 4.

HH 55247 DocId: 32989662 Page 49

---

## Page 50

SSC LETTER 8/20/75

ITEM # 2

#MDR16

ATT INIORHATION CONTAINLO

ile?

T5 44 852

DocId: 32989662 Page 50

---

## Page 51

*.=.

SERIAL

1H 55247

DooId:32989662

Page

51

253

#MBelG

IT.I, INTORMATTON CONTAINED

---

## Page 52

UNITED STATES, GOVERNI

Memorandum

NT

TO

BIR. N. Co SULLIVAN WCE,

FROM

A. SIZOO

Tolson

Belmont

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

DATE: 10-22-63

Gale .

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

SUBJECT:

SECURITY MATTERING,

SECURITY MATTER

JR.

I-Mr Sullivan

11-Mr. Conraa

•-Mc

cananan

1-Mr. M. F. Row

1-Mr. Bland

I-Mr. Baumgardner

COMMUNIST PARTY, USA

eclines.

NEGRO QUESTION

]-Hr Phislips

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

5-FAFTR

Menorandum Sizoo to Sullivan 10-18-63 set forth certain requests

Of SAC McMahon of the Atlanta Office in connection with the monitoring

of technical installations under consideration in connection with

captioned matter.

2112

5-

On 10-21-63, SAC NcHahon was advised that the technical

installations on the residence of king and the headquarters of the

Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) had been

approved.

He

was also advised that his request for the expenditure of $250 per

month

for a monitoring plant outside of the Atlanta Office was approved.

connection with Atlanta's request for the services of an outside sound

man in connection with these installations, he was advised that the

services of Special Agent William F. Heist

of the Miami Office should

be obtained. (SAC Mcilahon is to arrange with the Miami Office for the

presence of Special Agent Heist when he is needed. Heist's personnel

file shows nothing which would prevent such an assignment.) Mclahon

was also advised that his request for additional technical equipmepi

was being handled by a separate teletype sent to him on 10-21-63.

was advised that is any question arises as to the need of the Atlanta

COPY

Office for additional equipment, SA Baker of the Electronics Section

of the laboratory is thoroughly familiar with the equipment already

ordered and sent to Atlanta.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TREIN IS UNCLASSIFII

MDE16

ACTION:

DAIT 12 18100 BYSPZALMITTE

None, for infornation.

This memorandum records the following:

1) Authorization for Atlanta to install technical coverage

King at 563 Johnson Avenue, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia, and

on the

Headquarters of the SCLE, 330 Auburn Avenue,

N.E., Atlanta, Georgia.

(SAC McMahon is to furnish the date and

time installed and

the symbol

number of each installation and is to furnish a separate,

complete

justification and evaluation of the results of the.

ge within

30 days or installation.)

100-106670

contest

1 - 100-3-116

• 3

JAS:JFB :mjt

(14)

NOV * 1963

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

Itar is limite to official proceedings by

NOV 3

yorr committee and the content may nut be aisclosed to unauthorized person

swaront the express agrant of the fBI

1Н 55247 DooId: 32989662

Page 52

---

## Page 53

Memorandum to Mr. H. C. Sullisan

Re: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - C

-- .

COMMUNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

2) Authorization for expenditure of $250 per month for

monitoring plant.

3)Authorization to arrange with Miami Office for the services

of Special Agent Hilliam F. Heist for installation of technical equipment.

HH 55247

DocId: 32989662

Paye, 53

739-193

---

## Page 54

SERIAL

255

#M DR16

ALL INFORMATION COUTATHER

TH 55247

DocId: 32989662 Page

54

---

## Page 55

!:'

I. Rushing

October 11; 1963

Alxtel

TOT

SECURITY MATTER -

SAC, Atlanta

(100-5586A)

SUN B

DIrector, rBx-600-10670) - 255

#mDel6

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEA

HEREIN IS UNCLASSTHTED

DATS 12/18100 BYSFALSTEA

Reurlet dated October 10, 1963.

A review of your letter reveals the possible

existence of certain security hazards is connection with

the installation of tesur on the Southeru christian

Leadership Conference (SCLC): You indicate that a switch

of pairs in order to provide easier access in a nore

desirable location is found to be impossible. Prior to

lurther consideration of this natter, the burenu desires

additional information as indicated below:

MAILED 5

OCT 1 4 1963

COMM-FBI

1) Outline in detail the exact steps necessary

to effect a tesu installation on the office of

the sait.

rurnish a concise evaluation as to

whether full security can be assured utilizing.

a sound man from another office.

2) It is noted that in connection with this

proposed instullation as well as the proposed

Installation in the case of King's residence

you mentloned in your airtel of. October 3, 1963,

you proposed to locate the monitoring plant in

Headquarters facilities. In this connection,

avise whether the telephone cable serving the

Atlauta Office likewise serves other offices in

the building occupied by your office and/or any

adaçent palatings.

Tolson

Bolmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

TDR: sep

DeLoach

Evans.

(4)

This

request and is not, for dissi

Galo

nation outside your Committee.

ts use is limited to offial proceeding to

Rosen

Sullivan.

Tavel

Trotted

* NOV 131963

¿one Commite and the content may not be disclose to awhorite perpe

empress approval of the fBl.

Tole. Noon

Holmes.

Gandy

MAIL ROOM

HH 55217 •D0010 32989662

TELETYPE UNIT 1

Page 55..

---

## Page 56

Alrtel to Atlanta

Re? MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

100-106670

Together with your reply covering the above

points, specily exactly what equipment you will need 1n

the event authority is granted to make the installation

on the SCLC office as well as the King residence.

Advise Bureau by return ma11.

HH 55247 DocId:32989662

Page 56

---

## Page 57

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

5010-103-03

MAY 1902 EDITIC

* A GES. REG. NO. 21

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-106670)

SAC, ATLANTA (200-5586A) (P)

DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

-SM-C

DATE: 10/10/63

JUNE

ABI, INPORMATZON OREG

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

BATE 12/18/00 BY SPLAIN

fete

C" X

Re Atlanta airtel 10/5/63.

Enclosed herewith is a copy of FD 142 relating

to proposed Tesurs on subject and the Southern Christian

Leadership Conference (SCLC).

Through

sources, efforts were made to attempt to

switch certain pairs in order to facilitate the installation

a Tesur on the

four pairs serving the

SCIC Office as

the

Cross frame where these pairs appear is located on a pole

immediately in front of the SCLC Office.

This cross frame is

visible through two large windows from within the Office

of SCLC and practically on the same level as the windows.

Source at Southern Bell has advised that such a

switch of pairs in order to provide easier access in a more

desirable location is not possible.

The only sound trained Agent in the Atlanta Office

has in the past interviewed Dr. MARTIN LUTHER KING,

JR.,

and

his father,

as well as other employees of SCLC." At the

time of the interview of Dr. KING, JR., a signed statement

was taken and the interview

was of approximately two hours

duration. In the event installation of instant. Tesur is

authorized, it is believed that a sound trained Agent shou

make the installation who is unknown to subject and other

employees of SCLC.

It is noted that by previous communication on

October 3, 1063, results of survey was forwarded the Bureau

regarding

Tesur

on subject's

residence.

(RM)

sett

2-

Bureau

KẾnc

2-

Atlanta'D

ArM: elt

(4)

019.

This document is prepared in response.

10-14 nation, outside your Committee.

Its

• Volin Committee and the content ma

nel without the express approval

HH 55247

DooId: 32989662

Page

57

11 OCT 11 1953

your requesti

es limited to

be disclosed to una

FBI

is not

deedings Sw

rized pe

---

## Page 58

AT 100-5586A

AFM/elt

If installations are approved additional equip-

ment for plant operation is required as this office has

currently assigned to it two tape recorders, one 6A

amplifier and one 6AR dial recorder.

There are no play-

back units available Atlanta for transcription of tapes.

In view of the foregoing, if this installation

Is approved, Laboratory is requested to send a technician

to Atlanta to make installation.

_2 -

HH 55247 DocId:32989662 Page 58

---

## Page 59

FD-142 (Rev. 6-2-61)

OPTIOÑAL FORMANS. 1O

UNITED STATES GOVERNMBNI

Memorandum

TO

JUNE

DIRECTOR

(Bufile 100-106670)

DATE: 10/10/63

FROM

iN SAC, ATLANTA (100-5586A)

SUBJECT:

RECOMMENDATION FOR INSTAILATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE:

Title DR. NARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

Character of Case SM-C

Field Office Atlanta

Symbol Number None

Type of Surveillance (Technical XXxcrokore)

1.

Name and address of subject:

Office of Southern Christian Leadership Conference, 330

Auburn Avenue, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia:

2.

Location of technical operation:

Office space of Atlanta Office.

3.

Other technical surveillances on same subject:

None at present in Atlanta.

I listin

5214-1378

#MOR 16

ART INFORMATION CONTAINED

4. Cost and manpower involved:

Cost of four leased lines plus services of four Investigative

Clerks.

Exact cost of leased lines unknown but based on exact

wire mileage.

ENCLOSURE

"255

REG: 32

I'his document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

your Committee and the content mt nee de cites to of ticia proceeding on

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

5. Adequacy of security:

Adequate security is provided if-person making

installation

is unknown to subject, Dr. KING

and

Leadership Conference.

stiff of

Registered Mail

HH 55247 DooId:32989662

Page 59

DON

SUBY 617

soynera Chrise an

SPE

---

## Page 60

6. Type of case involved:

Security matter investigation to determine degree of

influence CP has on mass Negro organizations through Dr.

KING,

7. Connection or status of subject in the case:

Dr. KING has in the past been in contact with concealed CP

members,

and former CP members.

As President of SCLC,

leading Negro mass Organization, organization

and subject

are prime logical targets for influencing and infiltration.

8. Specific information being sought:

Degree of influence being exerted by CP on Dr. KING and

Southern Christian Leadership Conference and

extent of contacts.

9. Reasons for believing the specific Information will be obtained by the

technical surveillance:

Dr. KING's CP contacts are basically located in New York City

while he normally maintains office and residence Atlanta.

It is

however noted Dr. KING is in almost constant travel status

10. Importance of case and subject:

Dr. KING as President of Southern Christian Leadership Conference

has been elevated to the position of

"National leader" of the

Negro Civil Rights and Integration Movement as

shown by recent

events.

- 2 -

1s mans,

NH 55247 DocId: 32989662 Page 60

---

## Page 61

1l. Possibilities of obtaining desired information by other means

(Explain in detail) :

With the constant travel status of Dr. KING, and his being

almost completely surrounded by members of his own race who

are loyal to his cause, it is considered that this is the

only means by which desired information can be obtained.

12. Risks of detection involved:

Risks of detection are considered at a minimum.

13. Probable length of technical surveillance:

Indefinite

14. Request made for technical surveillance by any outside agency

(name specific official, title and agency :

None known to Atlanta Office.

- 3 -

NY 55247 DocId: 32989662 Page 61

---

## Page 62

15. Remarks:

In past when interviews have been conducted in the office

of Southern Christian Leadership Conference certain employees

when asked a question, in a half joking and half serious

manner replied, "You should know that already, don't you

have our wires tapped?"

It is noted in the past, state of

Georgia has conducted investigations

regarding subject and

Southern Christian Leadership Conference.

16.

Recommendation of Assistant Director:

- 4-

WW 55247

DocId: 32989662

Page

62

---

## Page 63

FD-142 (Rev, 6-2-61)

PRONAL PEONS NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNM

Memorandum

DIRECTOR

JUNE

(Bufile 100-106670)

DATE: 10/10/63

SAC, ATLANTA (100-5586A)

SUBJECT:

RECOMMENDATION FOR INSTALIATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILIANCE

RE: 17t1e DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

Character of Case SM-C

Field Office ATLANTA

Symbol Number None

Type of Surveillance (Technical axmeropnöke)

1. Name and address of subject:

Residence, Dr. MARTIN LUTHER KING,

Atlanta, Georgia.

2. Location of technical operation:

Office space of Atlanta Office.

3.

Other technical surveillances on same subject:

None at present in Atlanta.

JR., 563 Johnson Avenue, N.E.,

#mDRIE

ALL, INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIF MED

OCT

11

4.

Cost and manpower involved:

Cost of one leased line, plus services of four Investigative

Clerks.

exact wire mileage.

Exact cost of leased lines uNCLeSURd,

but based on

not 32/00-102

1 - 255

= oct it 1963

5. Adequacy of security:

Security for installation is adequate

L'his document is prepared in response to your reques,

nation outside your Committee.

I's use is limited to

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed

Registered

as tered express appo the El.

mis not for dissemi

Ficial proceedings br

- unauthorized, person

SPEO. VA

HH 55247

DocId: 32989662

Page 63

---

## Page 64

6. Type of case involved:

Security matter investigation to determine degree of

influence CP has on mass Negro organizations through Dr.

KING.

7. Connection or status of subject in the case:

Dr. KING has in the past been in contact with concealed CP

members, and former CP members.

As President of Southern

Christian Leadership Conference, a leading Negro mass

organization, organization and

subject are prime logical

targets for iniluencing and intiltration.

8. Specific information being sought:

Degree of influence being exerted by CP on Dr. KING and

Southern

Christian Leadership Conference and extent of

contacts.

9. Reasons for believing the specific information will be obtained by the

technical surveillance:

Dr. KING's CP contacts are basically located in New York

Office while he normally maintains office and residence Atlanta.

It is however noted Dr. KING is in almost constant travel status.

10. Importance of case and subject:

DI. KING as president of Southern Christian Leadership

Conference has been elevated to the position of "National

Leader" of the Negro Civil Rights and Integration Movement

as shown by recent

events. 2-

HH 55217 DocId:32989662 Page 64

-------------11977

---

## Page 65

11.

Possibilities of obtaining desired information by other means

(Explain in detail) :

With the constant travel status of Di. KING, and his being

almost completely surrounded by members of his own race

who are loyal to his cause, it is considered that this is the

only means by which desired information can be obtained.

12. Risks of detection involved:

Risks of detection are considered

at a

, minimun.

13. Probable length of technical surveillance:

Indefinite.

14.

Request made for technical surveillance by any outside agency

(name specific official, title and agency) :

None known to Atlanta Office.

-3 -

,...

WW 55217 DocId: 32989662 Page 65

---

## Page 66

15. Remarks:

In the past when interviews have been conducted in office

of Southern Christian

Leadership Conference certain employees

when asked a questions,

half joking and

I half serious manner

replied, "You should know that already, don't you have our

wires tapped?" It is noted in

the past, State of Georgia has

conducted investigations regarding subject and Southern

Christian Leadership Conterence.

16.

Recommendation of Assistant Director:

*-=-

HH 55247 DooId: 32989662 Page 66

---

