# docid-32339252

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90146-10084

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-93072-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 03/07/1963

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32339252 Page 1

24

---

## Page 2

Released under the John. Ex

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of. 1992 Tat Use 2107 Hate).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

THE FOREIGN SERVICE

OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

American Embassy

Paris 8, France

ALL INCORMATON CONTAMED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED. EXCEFT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

7/22197

CLASSIFICR BYS6685c0/

25%

718/98

DECLASS

5665 500

Dato:

March 7, 1963

To:

Director, FBI

FY2M0

From:

Legat,

Paris/ (94-36) (P)

•Subject

RELATIONS

IN

ALGERIA

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIRISATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS COGUMENT. JM 6/24/98

"RELATIONS

.N

TUNISIA

& 6,

ReBulet 2/19/63.

ReBulet was received by the Paris Office on

March

7, 1963 because of misrouting

of the pouch by the

State Departuent to, Saigon: (LU

In accordance with the request in reBulet the

following information is furnished regarding matters

noy pendins in this office which require work in Algeria (e) 5)

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

Bufile 105-93072 9

593072

ROBERT ALEXANDER WOOD

IS - CUBA

Bufile 100-353652

105÷10/5÷9

97-4184

100-353653

MARK DAVID SCHLEIFER

IS - CUBA

Bufile 105-101579

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTED

Bufile 97-4196

• 50

1S: 13

In the case pertaining

MARK DAVID SCHLETFER

of Bulet to New

dated February 26, 1963

Instructs Paris

-to expeditiously determine the activities

3

Bureau. (1

= Bara 14-36 04-23) 1087 860725 66 - 16300 -

165

NWP: 11

RECORDED

(5) 24

46 MAN 29 1963

ofs

DADR

8 MAR 1 5 1963

5 8 MAR 29196.

SECRET

yBOX

1963

ORIGINAL

DocId: 32339252

Page 2

---

## Page 3

VReleased under the

John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE : • 11-14-2017.

SECRET

Paris 94-36

(s) 1

subject En Algiers together with any information in-

alcating subject has

ceturned to cuba. It also in-

structed that the Paris Office furnish any data receive

regarding the activities

01

INVING ROSENTHALIn AlgiersS)

as well as Cuban travel.

Instapt leads

are being held in abeyance. until

the question okcoverage

in Algeria

pas been resolved

by the Bureau:

The Bureau requested that

describe any

contacts already availableEn Algeria. in view of the

present time.

ve formerly bar contacts in the U. S.

Consulate General (in Algiers but the persons whom we had

contacted previously have been transferred. We also

previously had contacts, with French police officials

and the officials of the Direction de la Surveillance

du Territoire (DST., French comestic counteresplonage

Service assigned En Algeria )These ErenchSagencies

are no longer existent (in AlgeriaS) The Algerian ()

Government has formedits (own police organization anc

we have not as

yet

contacts there.

The Bureau

requested that we comment regarding

ths

sirability of referring inquiries in the security

to local agencies. there in view o1

the conparatively

recent

establishment of the new government? It is

assumed that the Bureau is referring to American local

agencies En Algeria. S)The American Military Intelligence

agencies, such as,

the Army Intelligence Corps (AlC),

the Office of Special Investigations (OSI) and the

Office of Naval Intelligence (ONI) do not have branches

En Algeria(s) The only American local agencies En Algeria ]S):

known to this office are the State Department and CIA.

Independent Algerian Government S)

the Consulate General

Io Algeria bas becone a

separate

SECREL

DocId: 32339252

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John Fe Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USe 2107 Hote)?

' DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Paris 94-30

Embassy and the CIA station there answers directly to

CIA headquarters.

Therefore, it would not be logical

to refer leads

to the Embassy

to embassy or CIA in pariss]g)s)

* CIA In Algeria through

to handle inquiries En

security type cases

it

It would be reliable.

This could be explored and

appears that personal contacts there would be necessary.

We could, of course, consider contacting the Algerians)

police in criminal matters.

It appears

that it wou

advantage

to develop capabilities In Algeria

and to explore the

• possibilities of establishing contact with

the Algerian 6)

police when it is in its formative stage

(S)

Any travel to Algeria will be held

1.10

abeyance

pending further Instructions from the Bureau.&

3

SECRET

DocId: 32339252

Page 4

---

