# docid-32318834

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/13/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10366-10007

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : NO FILE NUMBER

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

HQ

DATE: 05/31/1957

'PAGES:

210

SUBJECTS :

MIOG - 1959

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

PART 2, REVISION NUMBER 48

v9.1

DocId: 32318834

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hay 31, 19:

MANUAL OF RULIS AND REGULATIONS

REVISION NUMBER

obiolete

RES REVISED PAGES

Phero are anunorated belon pages of the Manual of Rules end

Regulations, anolosed berowith, which have been rerised.

Retisions appearing

on dono pagon say be noted by braokets. the date apposring at the bottou

of the pagos ladioatos the date o1 revision.

The sou pagos ah.uld be in-

sordad la the appropriato dotion and the old corraspondlay pagea abould

Da ramrod and turnod over to the Special dent in Charge who has the responsi-

d121ty for the appropriato destruction of those old pagos.

This dover latter should do retainod until the next comecutively

mabered lostet 18 reocited.

Thia Mill anablo the siold o1f1O0 immodiately

to doteot the failure to receive the latest manual retislons.

AND INVORMATION CONTATNED

Iable of Contents - Pages 1

and 2

and

Page 5

Part I

ection 1 - Pages 1 and i

Section 2 - Pages 1 and 2

Page 3

Seotion 3 - Pages 1 and 2

Pages 3

and 4

Pages

5 and 6

Saction 4 - Pages

1 and 2

Pages

3 and 4

Pages

5 and 6

Pages

7 and 8

PAgeS

9 sed l0

Pages 11 and 12

Section 5 - Pages

and 2

Pages

3

and 4

Pages 5 and 6

Page 7

Sootion 6 - Pages

Pages

and?

and 4

and 6

Section 7 - Pages 1 and 2

Section 8 - Pages 1 and 2

Pages

3 and 4

Paños

and 6

Pages

7

and 8

Pages 9

and l0

CLASSIFIED BY 5668-SL0/mcl

DECLASSIFY ON: 2SX

section 9 a Pages l and 2

Pages 3 and 4

Section 10 - Pages 1 and 2

Pages

and 4

Pages 5 and

PARe 7

6

Section 11 - Pages

and

2

Pages 3 aid 4

Section 12 - Pages 1 and 2

Page 3

Section 13 - Pages 1 and 2

Pages

and

Pages 5 and 6

Section 14 - Pages

Pages

1 and

3

and

2

4

5

and

Pages

and 8

9 and 10

Pages 11 and 12

Pages 13 and 14

Page 15

Section 15 - Pages 1 and 2

PAgOS 3 and 4

Pages 5 and 6

Page 7

Section 16 - Pages 1 and 2

Pages 3 and 4

Pages

5 and 6

Pages 7 and 8

(Continued on folloming page).

SECRE

DocId:32318834 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BB -_с..

-

PART II

SECTION 8. MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS

SECRET

Matters not falling within the above categories should be

referred to the Bureau for handling with RCMP beadquarters.

See section 4, D, 11, (2), part II, of this mamal for nethod

in which these leads are to be set out.

(When RCMP Is requested to conduot an interview and it appears

the person

to be interriered 1a likely to be a witness for the

U. S.

Goverment and information furnished by him is apt to be

subject to the Jenoks law, advise Bureau so that ROMP may be

alerted..

Also, when 1t appears me may be requested to produce

or disclose

the contents of RCMP reports in connection with any

judicial proceeding, immediately advise the Bureau and lurnish

details so that RCMP may be alerted.]

(a

The Province of British Columbia - Seattle Office

b

The Provinces of Alberta and Saskatchenan - Butte Office

The Province of Manitoba - Minneapolis Office

The Province of Quebec - Albany Office

New Brunswick,

exceptions

as noted in subsections I, II, and III.

Buffalo

is to handle leads west of Irenton, Ontario, including

Trenton. Albany is to handle leads east of

Trenton, Ontario.

I.

That portion of the Province of Ontario lying immediately

adjacent to the Detroit Office, including the cities of

Windsor, London, St. Thomas, and Chatham - Detroit Office

II.

That portion of

the Province of Ontario immediately con-

tiguous to Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan - Detroit Office

III.

That portion of

the Provinoe of Ontario immediately

north

of the

northers boundary of Minnesota,

including

the cities of Port Arthur, Fort William, and Kenora -

Minneapolis Office

(5)

Offioes covering leads in Mexico

Investigations within 25 miles of the Mexican border are handled

by border offices on a liaison basis with the exception of

San Diego Office which handles leads approximately 60 miles

south of the border, including

the city of Ensenada, Baja

California, and the Phoenix Office which handles leads in

Cananea, Sonora.

Other leads are to be sent to the Bureau.

(a)

The State

of Chibuahua (contiguous portion) - Albuguerque

Office

The State of Chihuahua (contiguous portion) - Il Paso Office

The State of Sonora

- Phoenix Office

Tbe States of Coahuila, Nuevo Leon, and Tamaulipas - San Antonio

Office

(e) Northero territory of Baja California - San Diego Office

d. Information relative to convictions, sentenoes, and places of incar-

ceration received from USAs or judges need be verified by examination

of court records only when accuracy questioned.

8. Title 18, USC, & 474, prohibits the photographing

of any national bank

currency, Federal Reserve notes, U.

So or foreign government securities

except by direction of some proper officer of the U.S.

However, part

or obligation io4, chapter 4, title 31, of the Code of Federal Regulations,

grants

authority to all banks and banking institutions to make film records

of paper money, U. S. Government securities and becks, and to project

such records on & soreen provided the film records are maintained as

confidential.

This part states that no prints, enlargements, and other

reproduotions of suob film records may. be made exoept with the permission

of the Seoretary of the Treasury, the Ireasurer of

the U. s., the

Commissioner of

the Chief of the Secret Service Division,

[

C. TESTIMONY OF AGENTS - RECORDS AND INFORMATION IN OFFICES OF THE BUREAU

1.

Confidential obaracter of I'BI reoords land information)

Departmental Order(324-64, ]signed by the Attorney General (108-64 )

and published in the federal Register(1O 10-64, Isupersedes previous

Departmental Orders(260-62 andj3229.

be followed when an employee is served with a subpoena or order for

I PEa ribeena procedure to SECRET

10

11-27-64

DocId: 32318834

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

9

SECTION 9.

PART II

CLASSITICATION - CHARACTER - COPIES - ABBREVIATIONS

NSLI.

..National Servioe Life

Insuranoe

NSN

•Navy Serfal Number

NSP.

•.National Stolen Property

NSPF.

NUAF.

OCO

•National Stolen Property file

National Unidentified

Ammunition File

Ôbstruction of Court Orders

OFP.

•Office of Imergency

Planning

ONI

00.

Office of. Naval Intelligence

•Office of Origin

00J...

•Obstruction of Justice

OSD

OSIAF...

PAREN

• Offide of Secretary of Defense

•Office of Special Intestiga-

tions, Air Force

... Parentbesis

PBV......... Probation Violator

PC.......... Peace Corps

REBULET..

..Reference. Is Made to

Bureau Letter

RIBURAD.... Reference Is Made to

Bureau Radiogram

REBUTEL

Referenoe IB Made to

Bureau Teletype or

telegram

RECAB

• Referenoe Is Made to

Cablegram

RELET®

•Reference Is Made to

Letter

RERAD.

Reference Is Made to

Radiogram

RIREP.......Referenoe Is Made to

Report

RETEL..

•Reference Is Made to

Teletype or Ielegram

REURAD.

•.Relerenoe Is Made to Your

Radiogram

REURCAB

•Reference Is Made to Your

Cablegram

REUREP

•Reference Is Made to Your

Report

PCI.........Potential Criminal Informant

PD.......... Police Department

PERJ........Perjury

PMN . .

•... Public Motor Number

POB

.... Place of Birth

REURLET

•Reference Is Made to Your

Letter

RIURTEL.

• Reference Is Made to Your

Teletype or Telegram

RFCA..

• Reconstruction Finance

Corporation Act

PSI.

•Potential Security

RI.

•Racial Informant

Informant

RUC......

Referred upon Completion

PSN..

•Public Serial Number

to office of Origin

PV....

......Parole Violator

sA.......... Special Agent

PVIN..

..Public Vehicle Identification

Number

RA......... Registration Act

[RACON...

...Racial Conditions

RCA..

• Red Cross Act

RCMP

SAA......... Special Agent Accountant

SAB.........Sabotage

SAC. ,.......Special Agent in Charge

(SB......... Sports Bribery)

SBA..

.. . .

...Small Business Administra-

tion

•Royal Canadian Mounted

Police

REBUCAB.

•Reference Is Made to

Bureau Cablegram

20

7-29-64

DocId: 32318834 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MANDAL OF RULES AND RICULATIONS

INDEX

References are to part, sootion, and page.

Reports (continued)

of mitsesses, production of, II-B-14

opinions

ARents

USA,

II-419

Ii-4-2c. 11,18

PAgiDE, I1-4-24; II-8-1b

coyer page ls), II-412;II-8-1b

parole,

II-425

physioni surrellianoes,

identity of Agents on

coter pago, II-4128

pretext lantertion,

explanation and 180111141-4-125

Mritten, II-8-17a

number under in interoffice

reporte, II-4-12

informants, II-46, 20, 34,35

memoranda not

RecessaTy, II-A7

persons interriened.

II-46

removal of

reporting

administrative

office,

tr-4-7,15a8e8, II-5-B

rumor or

EOS8ip is, II-416

serialization of cover

and Deter Dead al, report,

nemo,

II-3=7

s'aè' court requeste to defense,

II-8-12

statements favorable

II-4-4,16

status, II-410,16

stop sotice,

II-416

summary, II-426

yo.5, 11-4 15a

II-4-6, 12a, 19,20,21,27

зудорі,

title of

typisg,

case

II-47,15

II-47, 25; II-8-16

FD-302,

USA,

II-4-5

time limits.

II-4-2c

Reproduction of

material

duzo-stats,

II-4-60

bank currency, securities, II-8-10

Bureau, I-1-5

Photostats, II-4-60

Requests

for

deferred reportin, date,

for isformation

appointee, I-2- Clerical

costs

of inveatigationa, II-5-11

re

leave

records,

I-48a

from.

Congressionar

re

personal

oommittees.

T1-5-5

references, I-1-1,2;

I-16-8;

1I-4-29

traisier, 1-:2-1, la,2,3,4

transportation,

portation requestso, trans-

Requisitions, II-7-19

Reservations

canceling

II-7-4

OusiDE (50G). I-141

Reserve

component of armed forces, military leate

for

members of,

I-11-4

members, TD-295

to be

submitted it

report to relocation site 1n

emergency,

I-11-5

0111cer8 Trainlog Corpo, loaro 10r training,

I-11-4

Residences, risits

Resident

agencies, II-2-7a

I-1-4

administrative

files in,

II-2-11

ticklers, II-2-11

and resident Agents, II-2-7ä

automcbiles

record, II-2-8; II-7-20a

security of, II-7-20a, 21b,210

obeck

circulars,

II-2-11

confirning

opinion cs USA, II-4-20

doors, II-2-9

firearms is,

II-2-10

inspection,

II-2-10

justification,

1I-2-7a

keys

to,

II-2-9

Inographs not to be beld

in, I1-8-23

Resident agencies (continued)

register in,

registered

II-2-8

mail receipts,

II-2-11

SAC contacts, contact.

security cheoks

01,

II-6-B

of telephone and taletype

lines,

II-3-2

I-6-8

telephone

directories, II-2-9

oonditions precedent

recommendation, II-2-8

Tata T09p01061161e8, 11-2-12

quelifloations,

10, 10=261,95, 11-7-226

ReaiRsations, I-12-1,7 (See

separation from serrice.)

11 TIDE, II-2-1

Rest

perioda,

Restricted police traina: 11974_7153-12

Restrictite mords or phrases,

Retention

of Bureau material, 1-1-5

of property, acquired during investigations, II-8-19

rights of

ex-servicemen, I-11-1,4

Retirement, Civil

Serrice, 1-15-1

(See also Civil Service

Retirement.)

Retraining sessions, FBINA, II-1-12

Return

receipts

certified mall,

destruction

of,

II-3-3a

II-2-11;II-3-15

evidence,

II-8-22

registered mail,

II-3-2,15;

1I- 4_54

resident agencies

io formard to field

office; II-2-11

vouchers, II-7-5

Review

performance rating, I-la

witt

circuit court

of appeals,

I1-8-22

of cased pending prosecution,

II-3-29

of identification

oards, II-2-1d

where retaised,

II-3-1g

1-1-4; I-16-4

Road test,

I-13-1,2

regulations, operating Goverament-owned

B-5029 tranenittal of lotterhead memo

nonymous letter

by, II-5-4,9; II-8-60

1D and action se, 1-11-5;

Rules for grading tests,

I-B-12,2,4,5,7

чтог. от доввір, тері

= 38-64

DocId:32318834 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PART II

SICTION 8. MISCILLANEOUS RIGULATIONS

SECRET

8B

7. Information desired from outside the field office territory

Investigative information from another field division is to be

obtained by that office unless extraordinary haste requires direct

communication.

When the exigencies of a case, emergencies, or

economy and

common sense dictate, an employee, if authorized by

his SAC, may enter an adjoining field division. The SAC of the

entered

division is to be advised immediately.

b.

Information which should be obtained by direct communication even

though the addressee is in another field division

(1)

For disposition of arrests, use ID-10 to obtain incomplete

inpormationi (por Distriot of. Columbia, send TD-10 to the

Washington Field Office Instead of the polioe department). l

Make notation on identifloation record or other pertinent

• serial in file that FD10 has been sent.

When FD-10 is

returnediD iD-10 to Identiriostion DiFision in lieu of a disposi-

note pertinent information from form in file and

tion sheet (R-84).

Automobile registrations data

3)

Driver's license information

Similar data

Filing of detainers with some agency

Status of detainers

Government bonds - Use FD-123, concerning purchase or redemp-

tions; specify information desired; send FD-123 in duplicate.

Investigations in foreign countries

(1)

Agents have no jurisdiction in foreign countries.

limitations border office Agents may, through liaison with

cooperative foreign agencies in adjacent countries, arrange

for investigations to be conducted.

This should be done in

a circumspect manner to avoid any allegation of a violation

of the sovereignty of the foreign country.

Where interviews

are conducted in a foreign country in the presence of and/or

at the request of a Bureau Agent, the Bureau Agent shoula

insure that the person interviewed understands that the interview

is being conducted by authority of the officer of the bost

country and not the Agent.

This should not preclude the Agent,

where proper, from discreetly assisting the foreign officer in

extracting all information of Bureau interest during the interview.

Bureau Agents have

no jurisdiction in foreign countries, no

power of

arrest, search, or seizure and must be most circumspect.

They

are.not to

be present at the scene of an arrest by foreign

authorities, participate in or be present during searches

incidental to

such arrests, accompany foreign officials trans-

porting

prisoners, or participate in interviews of prisoners

except at

their place of incarceration and in the presence of

foreign authorities.

The Agent should refrain from unauthorized

acts even though invited to do so by the foreign cooperating

officer

(2)

Where official business requires more than two days in a foreign

country, authority must be obtained from the Bureau..

The letter

requesting it is sent UACB and must contain an estimate of the

time to be spent.

(4)

Deleted

Offices covering leads in Canada

Offices along the Canadian border through liaison with coopera-

tive Canadian lan enforcement agenoies bandle Canadian leads

criminal matters where time is of the essence and in criminal

matters of local interest. Leads on security matters where timelS

is of the essence or where prèviously approved by the Bureau are

handled with RCMP by border offices on a divisional headquarters

level.

While the RCMP is exclusively charged with investigation

I security matters in Canada, not all personnel are indoctrinate

n the handling of these matters and personnel at detaohmen•

levels may not be in a position to render adequate assistance.

927-62

SECRET

DocId: 32318834 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :.

DATE: 11-14-2017

8B - C

c.

PART II

SECTION 8. MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS

Matters not falling within the above categories should be

referred to the Bureau for handling with RCMP headquarters.

See section 4, D,

1n, (2), part II, of this manual for method

in which these leads are to be set

out.

(When RCMP is requested to conduot an interview and it appears

the person

to be interviewed is likely to be a witness for the

U.S. Government and information furnished by him is apt to be

subject to the Jencks law, advise Bureau so that RCMP may be

alerted.

Also, when it appears we may be requested to produce

or disclose the contents of RCMP reports in connection

judicial proceeding,

immediately advise the Bureau and furnish

details so that RCMP may be alerted.]

The

Province of British Columbia - Seattle Office

The Provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan - Butte Office

The Province of Manitoba - Minneapolis Office

The Province of Quebec - Albany Office

New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and Newfoundland - Boston Office

The Province of Ontario - Buffalo and Albany Offices with the

exceptions as noted in subsections I, II, and III.

is to handle leads west of Trenton, Ontario, including

Trenton.

Albany is

to handle leads east of

Trenton, Ontario.

I.

That portion of

the Province of Ontario lying immediately

adjacent to the Detroit Office, including the cities

Windsor, London, St. Thomas, and Chatham - Detroit Office

II.

That portion of

the

Province of Ontario immediately con-

tiguous to Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan - Detroit Office

III..

That portion of

Provinoe of Ontario immediately

north of the northern boundary of Minnesota, including

the cities of

Port Arthur, Fort William, and Kenora -

Minneapolis Office

(5)

Offioes covering leads in Mexico

Investigations within 25 miles of the Mexican border are handled

by border offices on a liaison basis with the

exception

of

San Diego Office which handles leads approximately 60 miles

south of the border, including the city

of Ensenada, Baja

California, and the

Phoenix Office which handles leads in

Cananea,

Sonora.

Other leads are to be sent to the Bureau.

(a)

The State

of Chihuahua (contiguous portion) - Albuquerque

Office

The

State of Chibuahua (contiguous portion) - El Paso Office

The

State of Sonora - Phoenix Office

The

States of Coahuila, Nuevo Leon,and Tamaulipas - San Antonio

Office

(e) Northern territory of Baja California - San Diego Office

d. Information relative to convictions, sentences, and plaoes of incar-

ceration received from USAs or judges need be verified by examination

of court records only when accuracy questioned.

8. Iitle 18, USC, § 474, probibits the photographing of any national bank

currency,

Federal Reserve notes, U.S. or foreign government securities

or obligations,

However, part

except by direction of some proper officer of the U.s.

chapter 4, title 31, of the Code of Federal Regulations,

frants authorioto all banks and banking institutions to make film reoords

of paper money, U.S. Government securities and checks, and to project

such records on a screen provided the film records are

maintained as

confidential.

This part states that no prints, enlargements,

reproduotions of such film records nay.be made exoept with the permission

of the seoretary of the Treasury, the Ireasurer of

the U. S., the

Public Debt, the Chief of the Secret Service

or suob officers as may be designated by them.

Division,

TESTIMONY OF AGENTS - RECORDS AND INFORMATION IN OFFICES OF THE BUREAU

Confidential character of FBI recordsland information]

Departmental Orderl 324-64, ]signed by the Attorney General (108-64 ]

and published in the Federal Register 10-10-64, 1supersedes previous

Departmental Orders(260-62 and]3229.

be followed when an employee is served with a subpoena or order for

10

11-27-64

DocId:32318834 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection. Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PART II

SECTION 8. MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS

4. All offices

are to remain alert for items of interest

as set forth

under 2 above.

The

following offices, howeter, are

specifically

instructed to submit regular airtels when pertinent information is

developed:

a.

Albany

b. Baltimore

Boston

m.

n.

Minneapolis

Newark

0.

New Haven

d.

Buffalo

e.

Chicago

Cincinnati

p.

9.

New York

Philadelphia

1.

§ .

Pittsburgh

Cleveland

Denver

i.

j.

Detroit

Indianapolis

s.

t.

u.

Portland

St. Louis

San Diego

San Francisco

Los Angeles

=rw.

Seattle

1. Milwaukee

=.

Washington Field

5.

Each office reoeives at least one copy of the cinal letter,

which is

to be retained in the office files and which may be destroyed after

three years if of no value.

Those offices receiving multiple copies

are to destroy the extra copies within one week of receipt, except the

New York Office which may retain two copies.

Dissemination

a.

Each legal attache should insure that the dissemination of cinal

information is handled under the prevailing rules for dissemination

of classified infornation to foreign agencies and that adequate

protection is afforded

cinal information in accordance with the

classification set forth on each cinal.

b.

Page l of the cinal letter now bears the statement:

"This document

is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are

to be distributed outside

the agency to which loaned."

c.

Before the legal attaches copies of

the cinal letter are sent from

the Bureau, the material contained therein is retiewed,

and the items

which may be discussed with foreign sources by

the legal

attaches are

marked with asterisks.

The items which do not have an asterisk

are not to be discussed with foreign sources.

d.

Selected items from

the cinal letters may be disoussed by the legal

attaches with the U. S. Embassy and intelligence representatives

where they are assigned, but the letter itself is not to be

disseminated to these persons.

e.

The legal attache at Ottawa

is permitted to disseminate one copy

of each cinal letter to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.

26

8-28-61

DocId: 32318834

Page

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

9

-*--

PART II

SECTION: 9.

CLASSIFICATION - CHARACTER - COPIES - ABBREVIATIONS

NSLI.

..National Service Life

Insurance

NSN..

• Navy Serial Number

NSP.....

....National Stolen Property

NSPF..

..National Stolen Property File

NUAF..

•..National Unidentified

Ammunition File

oco.

Obstruction of Court Orders

OEP

•Office of Emergency

Planning

ONI...

00..

...Office of Naval Intelligence

...Office of Origin

00J......... Obstruction of Justice

OSD.....

...Office of Secretary of Defense

OSIAF..

•.Office

of Special Investiga-

tions, Air Force

[[PA..

•Public Accommodations]

PAREN....... Parenthesis

PBV.........Probation Violator

PC.......... Peace Corps

pCI.........Potential Criminal Informant

PD.......... Police Department

[[PE......

.. Public Education]

PERJ.

• Perjury

[[PF......

..Public Facilities]

PMN.

.. Public Motor Number

POB....

..Place of Birth

PSI..

•Potential Security

Informant

PSN.........Public Serial Number

PV...

PVIN..

..Parole Violator

•Public Vehicle Identification

Number

RA....

•Registration Act

RACON..

...Racial Conditions

RCA..

•Red Cross Act

RCMP.....

...Royal Canadian Mounted Police

REAIRTEL....Reference Is Made to Airtel

REBUAIRIEL. Reference Is Made to Bureau

Airtel

REBUCAB

..Reference Is Made to

Bureau Cablegram

REBULET

• Reference Is Made to

Bureau

Letter

REBURAD.

• Reference Is Made to

Bureau Radiogram

REBUTEL.....Reference Is Made to

Bureau Teletype or

RECAB....

...Reference Is Made to

Cablegram

RELET.

•Reference Is Made to

Letter

RERAD.

REREP.

•Reference Is Made to

Radiogram

• Reference Is Made t

Report

RETEL.

Reference Is Made to

Teletype or Telegram

REURAD......Reference Is Made to Your

Radiogram

REURAIRTEL. Reference Is Made to Your

Airtel

REURCAB...

..Reference Is Made to Your

Cablegram

REUREP.

•Roporence Is Made to Your

REURLET.....Reference Is Made to Your

Letter

LEURTEL.....

• Reference Is Made to Your

RFCA.

Reconstruction Financ

orporation Ac

RI.

•Racial Informant

RUC......

.. Referred upon Completion

to Office

of Origin

20

9-27-65

DocId: 32318834 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7°

PART II

SECTION 8. MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS

Information desired from outside the field office territory

8.

Investigative information from another field division is to be

obtained by that office unless extraordinary haste requires direct

communication.

When the exigencies of a case, emergenoies, or

economy and commun sense dictate, an employee,

is authorized by

his SAC, may enter an adjoining field division.

entered

division is to be advised immediately.

b.

Information which should be obtained by direct communication even

though the addressee is in another field division

(1)

For disposition

of arrests, use FD-10 to obtain incomplete

information.

Make notation on identification reoord or other

pertinent serial 1n file that FD-10 has been sent.

When FD-10

1s returned, note pertinent information from form in file and

forward FD-10 to Identification Division in lieu of a disposi

tion sheet (R-84).

2

Automobile registrations data

Driver's license information

Similar data

5

6

Filing of detainers with some agency

Status of detainers

Government bonds - Use FD-123, concerning purchase or redemp-

tions; specify information desired; send FD-123 in duplicate.

0.

Investigations in foreign countries

(1) [Agents have no jurisdiction in foreign countries.

Within

limitations border office Agents may, through liaison with

cooperative foreign agencies

in adjacent countries, arrange

for investigations

to be conducted.

This should be done

in

a circumspect manner to avoid any

allegation of a violation

of the sovereignty of the foreign country.

Where interviews

are conducted

in a foreign country in the

presence of and/or

at the request of a Bureau Agent,

the Bureau Agent should

insure that the person interviewed understands that the interview

is being conducted by authority of the officer of the host

country and not the Agent.

This should not preclude the Agent,

where proper,

from discreetly assisting the foreign officer in

extracting all information of Bureau interest during the interview.

Bureau Agents have no jurisdiction in foreign countries, no

power of arrest search, or seizure and must be most circumspect.

Theylare not to

be present at the scene

of an arrest by foreign

authorities, participate in or be present during searches

incidental

to such arrests, accompany foreign officials trans-

porting

prisoners, or participate in interviews of prisoners

except at their place of incarceration and in the presence of

foreign authorities.

The Agent should refrain from unauthorized

(2) tha

actsleven though invited to do so by the foreign cooperating

(2) Cohere Difiolal business requires more than two days in a foreign

oountry.lauthority must be obtainedfrom

the Bureau.

The letter

reovesting it is sent UACB and must contain an estimate of the

time to be spent.

(3)

Matters

to be

communicated to the RCMP or communicated to

Mexican authorities beyond the 25-mile limit in Mexico are to

volume IV, section

(4)

Offices covering leads in Canada

Offices bordering on Canada will handle, through liaison with

RCMP, matters of local interest or cases in which time is of

the essence.

and leads in which the covering

no primary interest are to be referred to the Bureau.

[The RCMP is exclusively charged with investigations of securit:

matters in Canada, Request of ROMP for assistande in securityll< l

6-18-58

DocId: 32318834 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PART II

SECTION 8. MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS

8.

cases should be forwarded to the Bureau for bandling unless

time is of the essence or unless otherwise approved by the

Bureau. Liaison by the field with RCMP on seourity matters CS.

should be donducted with RCMP divisional headquarters as all

RCMP personnel are not indoctrinated in the handling of security

matters and personnel at detachment levels may not be in a

positIon to render adequate assistance.]

di

The Province of British Columbia - Seattle Office

The Provinces of Alberta and Saskatohewan - Butte Office

The Province of Manitoba - Minneapolis Office

The Province of Quebec - Albany Office

New Brunswick, Nova Sootia, and Newfoundland - Boston Office

The Province of Ontario - Buffalo and Albany Offices with the

exceptions as noted in subsections I, II, and III.

1s to handle leads vest of Irenton, Ontario, rectod, Ontario.

Albany is to handle leads east of

That portion of the Province of Ontario lying immediately

adjacent to the Detroit Office, including the cities of

Windsor, London, St. Thomas, and Chatham - Detroit Office

II. That portion of

the Province of Ontario immediately

•tiguous to Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan - Detroit Office

III.

That portion of the Provinoe of Ontario immediately

north of the northern boundary of Minnesota, including

the cities of Port Arthur, Tort William, and Kenora -

Minneapolis Office

(5)

Offioes covering leads in Mexico

Investigations within 25 miles of the Mexican Border are handled

by border offices on a liaison basis with the

San Diego Office which handles leads approximately 60 miles

south of the border, including the oity

of Ensenada, Baja

California, and the

Phoenix Office which handles leads in

Other leads are to be sent to the Bureau.

The State of Chihuahua (contiguous portion) - Albuquerque

The State of Chihuahua (contiguous portion) - El Paso Office

The State of Sonora - Phoenix Office

The States of Coabuila, Nuevo Leon, and Tamaulipas - San Antonio

Northern territory of Baja California - San Diego Office

d. Information relative to oonvictions, sentences,

and plaoes of incar-

ceration received from USAs or judges need be verified by examination

of court records only when accuracy questioned.

Title 18, USC, § 474, prohibits the photographing of any national bank

ourrency,

Federal Reserve notes, U. So or foreign government securities

or obligations,

except by direction of some proper officer of the U. s.

However, part 404, chapter 4, title 31, of the Code of Federal Regulations,

authority to all banks

and banking institutions to nake film records

of paper money, U.S. Government securities and obeoks, and to project

such records on a soreen provided the film records are maintained as

confidential.

This part states

that no prints, enlargements,

and other

reproduotions of suob

film records may be made

exoept with the permission

l the seoretary of the Treasury, the Ireasurer of the U. so,

the

commissioner of Publio Debt,

the

Chief of the Secret Service Division,

or suoh officers as may be designated by them.

C. TESTIMONY OF AGENTS - RECORDS AND INFORMATION IN OFFICES OF THE BUREAU

Confidential ohgraoter of FBI recorde

Departmental Order 3229 (Revised), signed by the Attorney General on

1-13-53, and published in the Federal Register 3-10-53, revokes

previous Departmental Order 3229 and all supplements thereto.

scribes the procedure to be followed when an employee is served with a

10

6-16-58

DocId:32318834 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: •11-14-2017

PART II

SECTION

9.

CLASSIFICATION - CHARACTER - COPIES - ABBREVIATIONS

(

00.

00J

OSD

• 018100 01 OrigIn

Obatruotion of Justioe

01f1ce of Seoretary of

Delease

O SIAT

PAREN®

..Office of Spoolal Investiga-

tions, Air foroe

•Parenthes ia

PCTM

Polioo Cooperation -

Poreign MisOellaneOUs

PD.

PERJ

Polioe Department

•Perjury

PSI.

•Potential Security Informant

PV.

•Parole or Probation

Violator

R1..

RACON..

RCA.

RCMP

•Registration dot

..Racial Condition

•Red Cross Act

•Royal Canadian Mounted

Police

REBUCAB

•Reference Is Made to

Bureau Cablegram

REBULET.

Reference Is Made to

Bureau Letter

REBURAD.

•Reference Is Made to

Bureau Radiogram

REBUTEL. •

•.Reference Is Made to Bureau

Teletype or Telegram

RECAB

• Reference Is Made to

Cablegram

RELET.

RERAD

•Reference Is Made to Letter

••Reference Is Made to

Radiogram

RARIP..

RITEL.

... Reference Is Made to Report

•. Reference Is Mado to

t'eletype or Ielegram

REURAD.

REURCAB

REUREP.

'REURLIT.

Reference Is Made to Your

Radiogram

•Reference Is Made to Your

Cablegram

••Referenoe Is Made to Your

Report

•Reference Is Made to Your

Lotter

REURTEL.

•Reference Is Made to Your

Teletype or Ielegram

RPCA.

•Reconstruotion Finance

Corporation Act

RUC

•Referred upon Completion

to Office of Origin

SA...

SAA...

SAB..

SAC

SBA..

SDAA

•Special Agent

..Special Agent Accountant

... Sabotage

..Special Agent in Charge

•Small Business Administration

•..Servicemen's Dependents

Allowance Act of 1942

SE..

SED

SGE

•Special Imployee

• Sedition

•Security of Government

Employees

sI.

(sIss.

•Security Informant

Senate Internal Security

Suboommitteel

SKA........ Switobblade Inife dot

SM......... Seourity Matter

sO.........Sheriff's Offi0e

sP.....

...State Penitentiary or

State Prison

SPA.

..Surplus Property dot

SPI...

.....Speoial Inquiry

SPOL.......State Police

19

12-26-58

DocId: 32318834 Page 12

---

