# docid-32314253

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10335-10180

RECORD SERIES :

BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-174-3-13

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BU

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 04/05/1962

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

FRED RANDACCIO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

_CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF-LAST REVIEW

07/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

1....

v9.1

DocId: 32314253

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-143 (12-28-60)

ATIONAL PORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECIOR, FUI (Bufile

FROM

JUNE

DATE:

4/5/62

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE:

Title

FRED G. RANDACCIC, aka

Character of Case

AR

Field Office

Buffalo

Symbol Number BU 264-0*

Type of Surveillance: (Technical or

Microphone) Microphone

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

PIED GO MANDACCI, 552 Richnond ive., Juttalo, N.Y.

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

....

pastient DAENe GRAN, 51 Bopes sto

Buffalo,

N.Y.,

There

is residin. as DELORIS

DE MARCO

3.. Location of monitoring plant:

Sutral cruise

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

thoolantin - Dreat pdetel 11/11/61

Installati. a - 12//51

5.

Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places):

Mispophone at Delaware Texagg Legrace Center, 455 Delaware

venue, 3uftal0, 1.X.

(3U 25C-C*), ori inally installed $/24/61

at 29

simood ive., Surtalo, a:scontinued ,1?/01, and trans

ferrad t

the cervice statin wich 1e now in operation.

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

a. Is a trunk line utilized? We applicable

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard? N

c. Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone?

No

1. - Bureau (

1'-

Bud falo

92- 174 вик 3-13

17A:001 11

(2)

Registered Mail

indarou

Filed

• MF

DocId: 32314253 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hobel

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-174 Sub 3

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line? Private line

e. If a party line, how many parties? Not applicable

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One automatic reset Mic-Tel in telephone of DARLENE GRANN,

51 Essex St., Buffalo, N.Y.

8. Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

Yes, however, telephone conversation not monitored.

9 Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

See Attached.

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Subject 1s known by five live Informants who are not in position

to furnish the information as supplied by BU 264-5*

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency):

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises: None

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored

at same plant.

Seven

- 2 -

/ DocId: 32311253 Page 3

---

