# docid-32170587

## Page 1

Released under the Join Fo Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USS 7107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

IDENTFICATION PORN

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10171-10406

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-10461-2361, 2362

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: OT

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 12/17/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 62-109060-2186

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Top Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

03/02/1999

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC LTR, MEMO

DocId: 32170587

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy AssassinaliBARbcords Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ALL CORRESPONDENCE TO BE

ADDRESSED;

THE COMMISSIONER,

TOP

SECRET

R. C.. M. POLICE,

_ OTTAWA

D 971-0-2

FILE NO

HEADQUARTERS

OTTAWA, 8

CANADA

December 17, 1963e

TOP SECINC

Dear It. Innes:

A delicate and reliable source has reported

to us that members of the Cuban diplomatic mission in

Ottawa greeted the news of President KENNEDY's death with

jubilation.

20:

The Cuban Embassy received instructions from

the Cuban Foreign Minister Raul ROA to abide by protocol

rulings in force and to take bit in mourning for President

MANED only if official obserrations of mourning were

decreed by the Canadian Coverment and the Diplomatic Corpo

Cuban representatives in Canada were also instructed to abide

by the declaration delivered by Cuban Ambassador LECHUGA at

the United Nations, in which he announced thay "Cuba Hat

received the news

of the tragic death of Iresident KENUEDY

with profound displeasure"*

3.

Ne are forarding this for your information.

Please ensure protection for our source..

Yours very truly,

THE FOREGOING IS PASSED FOR THE INFOR.

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY ONLY.

IT IS NOT TO

BE DISSEMINATED WITHOUT PRIOR AUTHORITY

FROM R. G.M. P. HEADQUARTERS.

OTTAWA, IN

WHICH EVENT THE R.C.M, POLICE IS NOT TO

BE NAMED AS THE SOURCE.

Mr. Moss Lee Innes,

c/o U.S. Enbassy,

100 Wellington Street,

OTTAMA, Ontario,

Supt.

100-10461-

Assistant Director

MARCHED.........NDEXED for Director

SERIALIZED

..Ffdunitr Intelligence.

JAN 31964

FBI - DALLAS

DocId: 32170587 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

- DATE: 11214-2017

5-82 (Rev: 4-29-57)

TOP SECRET

Date: DECEMBER 17;

1968

To:.

Director, FBI

(Bufile

Attention

From: Legal Attache, Ottawa

Title

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOEN T. KENNEDY, 11/22/63

Dallas, Texas

VIA COURIER

168-364

Character

FPC

Reference

My 8/S dated 12/16/63

copies of RCMP letter dated 12/17/63, classified TOP SECRET

Remarks:

(15)

811-92

ALL INFORMATION CORTAINED

HEREI! IS !CLASSIFIED

E::

TOST WAS!

R SHOWE

on: CAN

TEK SPIELAA

Dissemination

May be made as received

May be made as indicated by stamp on enclosure

May not be made without further clearance with RCMPJ (TS)

Following offices would be interested in receiving copies of enclosures:

Dallas

Status with this office:

(TAK) 3/2y145

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLo/sel

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (6)

RUC

Pending

3

- Bureau (Encs. 3)

(1 - Dallas)

- ottawa

MLI: VEG

po прат 00 516 1 - 2362

•UARCHED....

-INCE)ED.

SERIALIZED

FILE.

JAN": 3 1964

rbl.- DALLAS

TOP SECRET

DocId: 32170587 Page 3

---

