# docid-32335867

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

Released under the John F.

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90129-10258

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-1280-211

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 03/26/1965

• PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS:

AMERICAN UNDERGROUND

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

1H 53074 DocId:32335867

Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

• FD-36/ROr. 12-19-56)

Transmit the following in

VIa _AIRIEL

FBI

Date;

3/26/65

NFIDENTIAL

(Type in plaitin 0xt or code)

AIR HAIL

(Priority or Meshod of Maillaphil?

ANY INIORMATTOY CONTAIVED

ITEM- THERE SHOE

MAESTELED

OTHARMISI.

TO:

FROM:

DIRSCTOR, FBI

SAC, DALLAS (105-NEW) (P)

SUBJECT: "AKERICAN UNDERGROUND", aka HINUFEMEN,

FORT WORTH, TEXAS

INFORMATION CONCERNING

INTERNAL SECURITY

226,540

OO-DALLAS

Re Bureau airtel to Dallas, 11/16/64; and Dallas alrtel

to Bureau, 3/18/65.

Referenced communications and prevlous information

concerning this group in-the Fort forth area have been submitted

under caption:

56685601G9

CHINUrEMEN"

INFORMATION CONCERNING

INTERNAL SECURITY

(00: KANSAS CITY)

However, investigation by Kansas City, office of

origin in Hinutemen case and subsequent and continuing investi-

gation in the Dallas Dalision have failed to establish a

definite connection between captioned organization and Minutemen

other. than mutually sympathetic goals.

This would lend credence

7 - Bureau (RM) (Enc.

12)

(2 - 62-107261)

2 - Kansas City (RM)(Enc.

(1 - 62-7797) (Info)

3 - Houston (RH) (Enc.

(1 - 68-1802) (Intb)

"serialize.

3-

Antonio (RH)(Enc.

• {ap - 105-2356) (Intol

• Index

File

Starch.

Approved:

3)

7 - Dallas

(4

-

405-NEW)

10

5-1280) (MIN VTSHEN)

(1:.-

14218) (WALKER)

134-338)

RLN/JP

(22)

Mstas.

Socia, ali cope DENTAL 105 - 1280- 211

53074

DocId: 32335867

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 105- NEW

CONSOL

to the Ilkellhood that the fort forth Group is probably autonomous

to the area and is nore closely related to the activitles

of retired General EDWIN WALKER rather than ROBERT DE PUGH.

- Enclosed letterhead menorandum is captioned and

dated as above and will contain & summary of pertinent investi-

This information has previously

been furnished Bureau and interested offices and agencies

under "Hinutenen" caption.

Subsequent information developed

in regard to this group will be subnitted under caption "AHERICAN

UNDERGROUND, FORT WORTH, TEXAS; and in addition, information

copies will be furnished Bureau and Kansas City for their

---

respective case files re "Minutemen". In vien, of gimilar

organizational-structaresand .goals.apparently fostered, however, by

separate :

Service are

each being: tarnished, to coples of enclosed letterhead

memorandun.

Informants

DL-T-1 1s DL-269-PSI.

DI I-2 18 D1-16-3.

D1-T-3 15 /DL-20-8.F

Enclosed letterhead menorandum is classified confi-

dential Inasmuch as unauthorized disclosure of the information

could...

I. have an adverse effect on national defense

interest of this country

confidential source of continuing/and

effectiveness.

LEADS:

HOUSTON

AT HOUSTON, TEXAS

Will verify residence and employment of WILLIAM H. SEALE

and thereafter intervlew him re

any knowledge of activities

2

CONFIDENTIAL

NN 53074 DocId: 32335867

Page 3

---

## Page 4

- .

DL 105-HEW

of captioned organization or any organization similarly orlentated

in the Fort Horth area.

Interview should be conducted lI

such a manner as to protect the identityof DL-269-PSI.

SAN ANTONIO

AT NORTH FORI HOOD, TEXAS

Interview LUTHER SOUTH re knowledge of captioned

organization or sintlar organization in the area.'

DALLAS

.

AT BOWIE, TEXAS

Identify (FNU) HUDSON and ascertain his possible

connection with the National Guard in that area as a Sergeant.

AT MIDLOTEIAN, TEXAS

1. Through PENN JONES, Publisher of"Hidlothlan Mirror",

and other available sources ascertain from whom RAY is buying

the Whitegate Farm, when he made the purchase, and who holds

the mortgage.

2. Hill check this of other sources in a further l

effort to ascertain RAY's place of employment.

AT FORT WORTE, TEXAS

Will maintain contact with DI-269-PSI.

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

Interview NOLAN FRANKLIN SOUSE for any information

concerning captioned organization or a similar type organi=

zation in the Dallas-Fort Worth area,

"exercising particular

caution to protect the identityof DL-269-PSI.

3

• *

CONFIDENTIAL

;

NW 53074

DocId:32335867 Page 4

---

