# docid-32194145

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10261-10079

RECORD_SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 89-69-201

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. NY

DIRECTOR. FBI

DATE: 11/26/1963

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

SEE FBI 105-82555-17TH NR 50

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

03/12/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HN 53025

DocId: 32194145

Page 1

---

## Page 2

URGENT 11-26-63

9-52

PM DE

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC BALTIMORE g. DALLAS AND NEW ORLEANS

FROM SAC NEW YORK • 9000

CONEDI

CPUSAg IS? C, ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN FO KENNEDY•

NY THREE NINE ZERO THREE- SE

ON'ELEVEN TWENTY SIX INSTANI,

CONFERE

WITH GUS HAL

CPUSA GENERAL SECRETARY, IN ROOM SEVEN ZERO SEVEN

CHELSEA HOTEL, NYCO HALL STATED HE WOULD NOT VISIT CPUSA HEADQUARTERS

DURING THE PRESENT WEEK FOR " SECURITY REASONS" HE STATED FURTHER THAT

HE FELT THERE WILL BE AN ULTRA RIGHT ATTACK AGAINST THE CP IN VIEW OF

THE ALLEGED INVOLVEMENT OF. LEE OSWALD WITH THE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA

COMMITTEE.

than

SHORTLY AFTER THE INFORMANT MET WITH HALL, ARNOLD JOHNSON

AND

IRVING POTASH ARRIVED AT THE ROOM WITH TWO COPIES OF THE " NY

WORLD

TELEGRAM AND SUN" FOR THIS DATE• BOTH. WERE IN AN EXCITED STATE XXIR

* WORLD TELEGRAM" ARTICLE, ACCORDING TO THE INFORMANT,

INDICATED THAT THE DALLAS , TEXAS, PD, HAD LEAKED THE FACT THAT

AMONG OSWALD-S PERSONAL EFFECTS WERE SOME LETTERS ON CPUSA STATIONERY

DEALING WITH HOW HE SHOULD PROCEED IN HIS ACTIVITIES IN THE FPCC AND

AS

Declassr

THE INFORMANT STATED " HOW TO HANDLE NOISY NEIGHBORS" ACCORDING TÒ

\ THE

INFORMANT, IT WAS APPARENT THAT JOHNSON HAD NOT REVEALED THE FACT THAT

HE HAD CORRESPONDED WITH OSWALD. HE THEN TOLD HALL THAT THERE WERE

THREE LETTERS FROM OSWALD WHICH HE HAD ANSWERED. HE RECALLED ONE DATED

AUGUST TWENTY EIGHT LAST TO ELIZABETH GURELY FLYNN AND ONE TO HIMSELF

ON SEPTEMBER ONE. LAST. HE INDICATED THAT THERE

PPARENTLY WAS

ALL TATORMATION CONTASHED

END PAGE ONE. 000000.

HERELS

FIED EXCEPS

- 69-3

THERE SHOWN OTHERWISE:

SEARCHED...

CONTE

SINY BE " CONFERRED"

NGV 2 6 1953

CLASSIFIED BY_

FBi - NEW ORLEANG

EXEMPT FROM GDS, CATECORY

---

