# docid-32325875

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90038-10064

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-4930-56

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/23/1969

5

JAMES HENRY DOLAN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 45771 DocId: 32325875

Page 1

34

---

## Page 2

FD-263 4Rev. 12-19-67)

.

FEDERAL

"UREAU OF INVES

"IGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

JAMES HENRY SOLAN

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/23/69

11/24 - 12/76/69

REPORT MADE BY

HAROLD R. LIVERETT

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

REFERENCE:

Report of SA HAROLD R. LIVERETT dated 10/30/69 at

Dallas.

Chicago airtel to Seattle dated 11/14/69.

=P=

TYPED BY

LEADS

CHICAGO

PCI

AT CHICAGO,

ILLINOIS, Will maintain contact with

Ire activities of subject.

LAS VEGAS

Да

previously requested.

AT KENO, NEVADA. Will report results of investigatig

CONVIC AUTO

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

EX NONE

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT-

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

XIYES ENO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

YES XINO

APPROVED

COPIES MORE

Bureau (92-4930)

• USA, Fort Worth

2- Chicago (92-865)

2= Las Vegas

2- Seattle

2- Dallas (92-292)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-4930-56

REG- 58

EX-I11

12 DEC 29 1969

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

7358

JAN8

Dissemination Retord of Attached Report

_CO.

AP. Main Milt

TOTA

and

2244

1970

Notations

COVER PAGE

STAS. SECT.

MeRO

NW 45771 DocId: 32325875 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

...

DI. 92-292

DALLAS

AT DALLAS,

TEARS.

Will maintain contact with

MRS. JAMES DOLAN,

400) Druid Hill Drive, re any information

she may receive about subject.

ADM IN ISTRAT IVE

T-1 is PC*

who is

contacted by Agents In Chicago Division.

OTHER 4

B*

Cover Page

NW 45771 DocId: 32325875 Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-204 (Rév. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

1- USA, Fort Worth

HAROLD R. LIVERETT

12/23/69

92-292

JAMES HENRY DOLAN

Ofice: Dallas, Texas

Bureau File #: 92-4930

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEER ING

Synopsis:

The investigation to establish subject as

• the

perpetrator of the SHEILA MC RAB jewel and fur subject

Lake Geneva, Wisconsin, 2/21/69, continuing,

believed possibly to. have been involved in Seattle

armed robbery of J0E GASPARAVICH.

Subject's ex-wife

had long distance telephone call

from subject on Thanks=

giving, but he did not indicate his whereabouts.

-p-

DETAILS:

On November 14, 1969, T-l advised that her

husband had just returned from

Seattle,

Washington, on

a business trip and had learned that JOE GASPARAVICH

and his family had been robbed at his home approximately

one year ago by two armed men wearing masks.

The two

men broke into GASPARAVICH's home, forced their daughter

to remove her clothes, tied her up, then waited for

GASPARAVICH and his wife to return.

T-1 recalled subject DOLAN discussing such

a robbery in her presence indicating how he had undressed

the girl and ate a bowl of ice cream while he waited for

the family to return. Informant earlier advised that

she had seen DOLAN in possession of masks and guns.

This document contatns neither recommendations nor conclusions. of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency: it and its contents are not to be distributed outside. your agency.

NW 45771 DocId: 32325875

Page 4

---

