# docid-32561560

## Page 1

4-41 (ReV. 3-5-621

DECODED COPY

Radio

*** Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach.

Evans -

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy -

stifle

lor

URGENT

6-19-62

10:57 PM EDST ERA

TO

DIRECTOR AND SACS NEWARK AND NEW YORK ".:

FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA

200230

ANGELO BRUNO, AKA., AR. 00 PHILADELPHIA.

RE NEW YORK TELETYPE JUNE 16 TO NEWARK AND PHILADELPHIA,

AND PHILADELPHIA PHONE CALL TO NEWARK TODAY.

PHILADELPHIA AND NEWARK PHYSICAL SURVEILLANCE JUNE 19

CONFIRMED BRUNO ATTEMPTED TO HIDE COLOGERIO SINATRA, VENTNOR,

PH 614-C-TE REPORTED SINATRA TRANSPORTED PHILADELPHIA TO :

TRENTON, NU, BETWEEN 10 AND 11 PM, JUNE 18 BY PETER MAGGIO,

PROBABLY TO RESIDENCE CHARLES COSTELLO FOR MOVEMENT TO

"SHORE" JUNE 20. BRUNO "TO CALL" COSTELLO EVENING JUNE 19

AND IS GOING "OUT OF TOWN" JUNE 20 FOR A DAY.

On

NEWARK ATTEMPT VERIFY SINATRA'S PRESENCE COSTELLO'S AND

PREPARE TO ASSIST POSSIBLE PHYSICAL SURVEILLANCE TRENTON,

VENTNOR, NOON JUNE 20.7

2

717-595

NEW YORK SUTEL PHILADELPHIA AND NEWARK SINATRA'S

COMPLETE DESCRIPTION OBTAINED NEW YORK CUSTOMS "AND EXPED TE

HIS PHOTOS BOTH OFFICES.

18 JUN 20 1962

BRUNO CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

11:30 PM

EP

RELAYED TO NEW YORK

8 JUN 2 8 19622

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45737 DooId: 32561560 Page 1

---

