# docid-32166484

## Page 1

8/28/2014

JFK Full Results

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Exit JFK

Released under the John

f. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10160-10009

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-3RD

NR 228

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, NY

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE : [No Title]

DATE

:11/26/1963

PAGES

: 3

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : LHO, LIRS, POLITICAL AND

SUBV ACT,

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 4

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LASI REVIEW

: 03/12/1996

OPENING CRITERIA

:INDEFINITE

FPCC

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search.

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

1/1

---

## Page 2

REASOR-

HH

COMMUNIO

NOV2

Jere

ÛRGENT 11-26-63

7-00.•

PM DE

5470 MBBL

10÷5

JFK

192

10.2

19803 яся

Destassify on:

: OU

AND NEW ORLEANS

TO

DIRECTOR

-7-

AND SAC BALTIMORE, DALLAS

ROM SAC NEW YORK

DECLASSI MED DYER SL

0N8/4/95

OPUSA, IS- C, ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F.

-KENNEDY•

NY.: THREE NINE ZERO. THREE- S

ON

ELEVEN TVENTY SIX INSTANT, CONFERRE

LITH GUS HALL, CPUSA GENERAL SECRETARY, IN ROOM SEVEN ZERO

SEVEN,

- CHELSEA HOTEL, NYC. HALL STATED HE WOULD NOT VISIT CPUSA HEADQUARTERS

DURING THE PRESENT WEEK. FOR " SECURITY REASONS". HE STATED FURTHER THAT

FELT THERE WILL BE AN ULTRA RIGHT ATTACK AGAINST THE CP IN VIEW

OF

HE ALLEGED INVOLVEMENT SE FORMASHA PONITTHE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA

ЭММІТТЕЕ

EREIN TS-UNCTAS

EXCHFI

WHERE STONY OTHERW

SHORTLY AFTER THE INFORMANI MET WITH HALL, "ARNOLD JOHNSON AND

RVING POTASH ARRIVED AT THE ROOM WITH TWO COPIES OF THE " NY WORLD

TELEGRAM AND SUN" FOR THIS DATE. BOTH WERE IN AN EXCITED STATE.

XIRX

THE " WORLD TELEGRAM " ARTICLE, ACCORDING TO THE INFORMANT,

INDICATED THAT THE DALLAS, TEXAS, PD, HAD LEAKED THE FACT THAT

AMONG OSWALD-S PERSONAL EFFECTS WERE SOME LETTERS ON CPUSA STATIONERY

DEALING WITH HOW HE SHOULD PROCEED IN HIS ACTIVITIES IN THE FPCC AND AS

AFORMANT STATED " HOW TO HANDLE NOISY NEIGHBORS"• ACCORDING TO THE

ENG

58

MANT,

IT WÄS APPARENT THAT JOHNSON HAD NOT REVEALED THE FACT THAT

ORIGINAL FILED

CORRESPONDED WITH OSWALDE HE THEN TOLD HALL THAT THERE WERE

LETTERS FROM OSWALD WHICH HE HAD ANSWERED. HE RECALLED ONE DATED

FUSE TWENTY EIGHI LAST TO ELIZABETH GURELY FLYNN AND ONE TO HIMSELF

minatinicinosis +5915312 it 500045i25

DR SEPTEMBER ONE LAST.

HE INDICATED THAT THERE APPARENTLY WA

ONE

02-109060 7/2/13

PAGE

CORR LINE

ONE LAS

DECTS 1063 PATE OF DECEASSICATION INDEFINITE

iden

---

