# docid-32310266

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/3/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10302-10210

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1499-1, 2

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

LEG, HAVANA

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 07/30/1958

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

FS, AKA, RES, REL AND ASSOC, BUSS, TRA, ARREST, MED,

BKG, MIL SERV, DESCR, NCK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC LHM, S/S, MEMO, ABSTRACT

v9.1

HH 54462

DocTd: 32310266

Page

---

## Page 2

FORM NO. 64

Ment

UNITED

S GOVERNMENT

Director FBI

FRO

Legat,

Havana (2-15)

SUBJECT:

FRANK FIORINI, waS.,

Fred Frank Fiorinid

DATE: • July 25, 1958

ATTENTION: IDENTIFICATION DIVISION

NO ARREST RECORD - FBI IDENTIFICATION DIVISION

7/31/58

Frank Attila, Fred

Attila

NEUTRALITY ACT, POLICE COOPERATION

Enclosed is the fingerprint card of the subjects containing

photograph which was furnished by Lieutenant Roberto Vilalöf the

Cuban Army Military Intelligence Service (SIM) on July 24,1958.

He requested that any information which may be available in the

Identification Division concerning this subject be furnished§to him

It is suggested that the Bureau may desire to quote the

enclosed fingerprint card as contributed by

the Cuban Army Military

Intelligence Service; date of arrest

investigation; disposition - pending (@ July 18, 1958; charge -

For additional assistance in identifying subject, he

claimed thet he was with the U. S. Marine Corps from 1942 to 1945

and

with the, U. S. Army from 1946 to 1948. He is described as follows:

Birth data

Born 12/9/24, Norfolk, Virginia

Address

310 N. E. 5th Street; Fort Lauderdale,

Nattonality

Florida

American

Height

5' 11"

Weight

Eyes!"

190 pounds

Brown

Hair

Black, curly

Scars and Marks

¼" mole inside left forearm,

l'' cut scar outside right wrist

•Occupation

Unemployed - Operated a bar in

Virginia Beach, Virginia, for

7 years

», Fingerprinted

3910

NO

Said he was fingerprinted by the?

(4)

Civil Air Patrol

Subject's name on

the fingerprint card and

is spelled FIDRINI and should have been spelled FIORINt.

It is requested that one extra copy of subjeat's identification

record be submitted torthis office

furnishing to Lieutenant Vila

is a matter

"ót police cooperation.

Enclosure

- Bureau

- Havana

JEP: MEG, 092

(31)

3 сс харт

# 147902

Hapt 30

1

8/615

EX

REC.

59

53 AUG 18 1958

D

LASCIFIED A

EATENDED

REASON FO

FCIM, U1,

DATE T

DECLASSIFICATION.-.

63150214

NW 54462 DooId: 32310266 Page 2

---

## Page 3

STAND

102738

Office Mervervo

• UNITED STALLS GOVERNMENT

TO

Director, FBI

DATE: July 30,

1958

FROM

Legat,

Havana

RATEF

SUBJECT:

CHANGED

FRANK: ANT

ONY

STURGIS (True Name,

With altases

Frank Fiorini

Fred Frank Fiorini

Frank Attila,

Fred

Attia

SEL-REVERSE SIDE FO

123/39

ADD. DISSEMINATION.

NEUTRALITY ACT,

POLICE COOPERATION

Reference Havana

letter dated July 25, 1958,

entitled

FRANK FIORINI, WAS, marked for the attentionrob Bhe

Identification

5078

Division.

Enclosed are five copies of a letterhead memorandum concern-

information obtained by Lieutenant Roberto Vila of the Cuban Army

Military Intelligence Service (SIM) regarding subject's participation

In the 26 of ful revolutionary morenone This meerandum jo includes

statements which the subject made to the Legal Attache.

In the writer's talk with the subject, the writer was

identified only as being from the American Embassy and, according

to Vila, neither he nor anyone

connection with the Bureau.

(W has ostice had been told of my

On July 29, 1958, Lieutenant Vila advised that SIM was

putting the subject aboard Pan American flight 416 on July 30, 1958,

and this information was furnished

"to the Miami office on July 29,

1958.

A blind memorandum

containing, the information set out in the

enclosed memorandum waslalso forwarded direct to the Miami

office

with the photographs referred to in the memorandum to assist the

Miami office and thè U.

S. Customs

there in interrogation of the

subject on his arrival in

Miami.

Additional copies of this letter and the enclosed memorandum

are being

furnished for forwarding by the Bureau to the Miami office.

The Miami office is requested to ascertain if the 1952 Chevrolet,

Motor No. KAD-450-800, bearing

reported as a stölen car.

(MorIda Ianse 2-5297 (1958) bas

been

On July 30, 1958,

Lieutenant

la stated that the automobile

which was brought to Havana by JAMES ROXBURY arrived on May 6; 1958,

aboard the ferryiN'City of Havana," fromkey Westrand was à 1949 Ford

Florida license 12119-445, Motor

"The Miami office

13 requested to ascertain? this car want bettempting to

The, car

is presentzy in. Havana'

The Havana office

identifying

details regarding the 1952 Chevrolet brought to cuba, by

RICHARD SANDERLIND SO 2-CC- MinariCT (/5pp. 00

that this car also may

be checked as a possible!

AUG

Enclosures

S HOW ASK?

8-20-38

*1S

-RIẾC- 53

B

AÜG 6,55 1958

4 - BureauR

На кла рЕС - 53

NATIMPT:

SEC.

HH

54462

•323

266

Page 3

---

## Page 4

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTIU

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

102735

In Reply, Please Refer to

SEL

File D°ARO

ENTENCED

REASON

911959

FOIM, 11

DARE

3a3119

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

July 30, 1958

TACATION D

FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS (True Name)

With aliases, Frank Fiorini,

Frank Attila, Fred EtAJaFIED 256t

Fred Frank Fiorini

ON 3-23-95-

Military

On July 23, 1958, Lieutenant Roberto Vila of the Cuban Army.

Intelligence Service (SIM) advised that the subject was in

custody of that Service on suspicion that he has acted as a couriel

for the 26 of July Movement between Miami and Santiago de Cuba.

310 N.

Subject stated that he lived 'at Fort Lauderdale, Floriod, at

E. 5th Street with his uncle who is also known as FRANkAFIORINI,

and that he had some money and was planning to open a bar in Fort

he said that one day while in Miami he met a RICHARD

*SAUNDERS, who is a friend of HAYDE SANTAMARINA.

Subject was not

sure

about the name SAUNDERS, and when asked as to how he was supposed to

later contact SAUNDERS, he said he would do this through SANTAMARINA.

He gave the story that SAUNDERS was a free lance newspaper man who had

told subject that if he went to Cuba and entered the mountains where the

.U. S. citizens were being held captive by the rebels and got a story

on the captivity, SAUNDERS thought he could sell the story to.

newspaper and there would probably be $500 for the subject.

He stated with this idea in mind he left Miami July 4, 1958,

by Pan American and went from Havana to Santiago de Cuba the following

day by Cubana.

He spent one week in Santiago before he was arrested

by Cuban authorities on July 18, 1958, at noon.

He stated he had a

reservatlon a pan American from santial

Miami on a flight which

was to leave on the same day at 3 p.m.

According to Lieutenant Vila,

Cuban

authorities arrested the

subject asleep in a room in a boarding house where he had been living.

This boarding house was known to Cuban authorities as a contact point

and safe house for the 26 of July Movement. Subject became very

friendly with the daughter of the woman who ran the boarding house and

she admitted to Lieutenant Vila that she was

not only a sympathizer

of the 26 of July Movement but was acting as a contact for them.

She

explained, however, that she was forced to undertake this contact work

because she had been threatened with being thrown out of Cuba and she

thought false accusations might

be made against her and she would be

framed in a criminal matter.

ACENCY 2cc. Misins with nate quesia

AGENCY / PRAKARDC. OSI,O2,

REGA

DATE IT

C2a, RAB

9-21-38

-1-

KOW Fa...

BY -

Note pENCLOSURE

I MISGINE

REQ RECA 1CE

-fate, Customs

DATE 1ONX9e20-68

Re Fore.

that 10.4

3/4/68

RAFAN

NW 54462 DooId: 32310266

Page 4

---

## Page 5

102099

Re: FRANK ANHUNY STURGIS, with aliases

Ce.

The daughter also advised SIM that subject showed her a letter

which he said had been given to him by SANTAMARINA in Miami.

outside envelope was written the name of SOYLO (phonetic) which Lieutena

Vila stated is the alias of an individual who is known to be head of the

action group in Santlago for

Vila stated that SOYLO's responsibility was the planting of bombs,

handling 26 of July Movement agents and getting volunteers for the rebel

movement into contact with the Movement.

SOYLO, according to Vila,

would not be the person who would be contacted by a newspaper man

attempting to get into rebel territory.

Since SANTAMARINA in Miami is

considered so important in the Movement and'has spent one year with

FIDEL CASTRO up until Apris, she would have known that SOYLo was not

the proper contact for a newspaper man since SOYLO's activities are so

much more protected and his name as a contact would only be given to

someone who was on vitally important business for the Movement.

Vila

said that usually courier activities to the rebels go through Guantanam

Naval Base and that in a routine courier contact, this route would be

used and the military authorities feel that subject's contact with

SOYLO waS in

connection with a very important phase of the Movement's

activities.

authortties for revolutionary activities.

Vila said that SANTAMARINA

left FIDEL CASTRO's group in April, 1958, after one year in rebel

territory. She went to the United States with an individual who

known as Captain CABAROCAS and whose full name is believed to be

MIGUELY GARCIA CABAROCAS: He is likewise a very important member of

the 26 of July Movement and is believed to be in the United States at

the present time. BU) Cuia-11:

Lieutenant Vila pointed out that Cuban authorities arrested

the subject immediately after he had spent l4 to l½ hours talking to

SOYLO after his contact with SOYLO had been arranged by the daughter

of the landlady of the boarding house. At the time of subject's arrest,

all the other people in the boarding house were also arrested, but SOYL

had already departed.

The subject, however, stated he had plane

reservation from Santiago to Miami

leaving three hours after the arrest

whereas he claimed he was going into the mountains to get a newspaper

story and also stated that SOYLO in the interview said he was wasting

his time and should not attempt to get into rebel territory.

It appears

reservations to leave Santiago, according to Lieutenant Vila.

however, that belora Sero save him this advice he had already nice

At SIM headquarters subject removed his shirt and showed black

and blue marks on his arms and back and long red streaks such as might

provided him with medical attention.

have been caused by dear an bein pa square stick. The sth hac

-2-

HIH

54462 DooId: 32310266 Paqe 5

---

## Page 6

102937

'€ :

FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS, with aliases

From rsonal observation and subject's statements, the

following identifying information was obtained:

Birth data

Weight

Height

Eyes

Hair

Scars and marks

Born 12/9/24, Norfolk, Virginia

190

5' 11"

Brown

Black,

wavy

¿" mole inside left forearm,

i'' scar outside right wrist

Military record

U. S. Marine Corps 1942-1945, Ist Raider

Bn., 6th Marine Division, South Pacific

U. S. Army 1946-1948

Ist. Infantry Division - Germany

Fingerprinted

Uncle

Civil Air Patrol

FRANK FIORINI, 310 N. E. 5th Street,

Fort Lauderdale, Florida

Father

ANGELO FIORINI, 326 Bank Street,

Apartment 7, Norfolk, Virginia

Occupation

Operated a bar for 7 years at Virgini

Beach, Virginia

fingerprints and photograph.

Da July 24, 1958, Lieuistant Via furnished a copy of subject -

On July 28, 1958, Lieutenant Vila said that he had determined

the subject's true name to be FRANK STURGIS.

He said that subject

claimed to have legally changed his name to FIORINI sometime ago. Vila

furnished the following information which may be of value:

Subject originally came to Cuba on April 8, 1958, on the

ferry "City of Havana" driving a 1952 Chevrolet, Motor No. KAD-450-800

1958 Florida license 2-5297, accompanied by JAMES ROXBURY. Subject used

the name FRANK STURGIS for this entry.. On his Customs Declaration he

gave the address of 1423 N. W. 15th Street, Miami, Florida.

The above automobile was later discovered by Cuban police at

the Almeide Garage in Havana, at which time a stop was placed on it to

determine the rightful owner.

Approximately two weeks ago, ROLAND N.

BELLO of Muralla No. 213, went to the garage to claim the car.

exhibited a letter he had

received from a FRANK STURGIS of 2160 S. W.

4th Street, Miami, asking his assistance in selling this automobile.

In this letter STURGIS made reference to one MARIA CABEZAS Y ROSALES,

sister of GILBERTO CABEZAS ROSALES, an American citizen who resides

at 2160 S. W. 4th Street in Miami.

X(4)

Vila said that BELLO appears to be innocent of any connection

with the insurrectionary movement; however, it was determined that over

300 rounds of .45 caliber ammunition were hidden in the bottom of this

automobile when it was discovered in the garage. There was a false

NW 54462 DooId: 32310266 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Re: FRAY

J ANTHONY STURGIS, with alides

gasoline tank'

'which Vila believes wass used to bring at least six sub-

machine guns into Cuba.

He said the subject has admitted knowledge of

the fact

that this ammunition and the guns were hidden in the car at

the time he drove it over.

Subject also said that two other cars had

recently been brought into Cuba with hidden arms; one was a 1952

Chevrolet brought in by RICHARD SANDERLINDand the other a 1948 Ford

brought in by

The subject has identified ROGER SERGE

SANJEN IS CABARROCAS, 2D

alleged Communist who had fought with the Republican Army in Spain,

being one of the leaders of the insurrectionary group arranging for the

transportation of these arms into Cuba.. Vila believes this person is now

in the United States.

Subject also identified AUGUSTIN CAPOTE YIMENEZ

DEY CISNEROS as one of the rebel leaders in Havana Who had furnished him

with money in connection with these shipments.

has left Cuba and is now believed to be in Chile.

Subject is reported to be a native of Norfolk, Virginia, where

he resided at 326 Bank Street.

He has an account with

the National Bank

pl connerce 1a Norfolk, Vrana, andag has reaided in fort lauderdale,

Florida, for the past six montha. A

Vila advised that the subject went back to the United States

after leaving the above-mentioned car, in Havana and then again returned

to Cuba on July 4, 1958, using the name ATTILA.

Santiago where he stayed at the Lincoln Guest House and was arrested on

July 15, 1958, by Cuban authorities there and transferred to the head-

quarters of SIM on July 20, 1958.

Vila said that subject admitted the

purpose

ofithis second trip to Cuba was to deliver a message to a leader

of the July 26.

• Movement in Santiago.

Subject claimed he cannot identify

he person to shopke gave the message and has no information regarding

contents of the message.

Among subject's possessions was found a

hembership sard for the Elks Lodge 948 in

Miami, Florida, in the name

of FRED B. ATTILA which was dated March 16, 1958, and

gave his address

is 1448 Flagler Street, Miami.

Also found in his possession were a

umber of photographs of different groups of persons.

Several of the

hotographs contained pictures of the subject accompanied by a person

entified as RICHARD SUNDERLIND and also one identified as JAY ALLAN

ÍLGORE. Vila identified SUNDERLIND as the owner of the house in

flami in which U. S. Customs Service recently uncovered a

large cache

arms.

KILGORE is an American who had previously been arrested by

an police because of activities

with Cuban insurrectionary

groups

who was informally deported to the United States.

«U)

NW 54462 DooId: 32310266 Page 7

---

