# docid-32333375

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90107-10001

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-117222-71

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 04/13/1963

PAGES:

126

SUBJECTS :

COMMANDOS L.

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/30/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF USCG

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES i-ii, REFERRED TO USCG

v9.1

DocId: 32333375

47

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote,.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-7054

SECRET

CONFIRENTTAL CONFIENTIAL

of Justice to make a prosecutive opinion.

Copies of this report have been furnished

locally to U. S. Customs, INS, U. S. Bordér Patrol, U. S.

Coast Guard, CIA, ONI, G-2 and OSI.

- INFORMANTS -

IDENTITY

CIA, Miami.

MM T-2 is MM 492-S.

Instant report,

, page 2

dectoo

7/8/90

seller

Miami file 134-44-Sub A

MM T-3 is LUIS BALBUENA,

908 S. W. Fifth Avenue, Miami.

Instant report, page 104

MM 1-as a contidential source

abroad-known to the Bureau an

furnished by the Bureau to

Miami.X1

Bureau airtel 4/4/63,

instant case

This report is being classified "secret"

in view of the references contained herein to CIA. (u)

SO DENTA

-D* -

COVER PAGE

CONFXDENTIAL

SECIET

DocId: 32333375

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-7054

SECRET

speedboat then left the scene and rendezvoused with

the 'Alisan" at Dog Rock in the Bahamas at about 6:00

A.M. the same day and then separately returned to Miami.

The raiders claimed they had no guns or explosives on

board either boat upon their departure from or return to

the U. S. and that these materials had been obtained from

islands in the Bahamas where they had been previously

stored for this operation. The two newspapermen were

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN of Moore Haven, Fla., and ANDREW ST.

GEORGE, who allegedly took photographs for "Life" magazine

Haven apha ton

during this operation.

DUNKIN admitted his participation.

CUESTA stated that the entire operation cost about $7,000,

which was raised over a 5 months period, during which

time

the 11 participating Cubans individually donated their

labor and money and solicited fünds from sympathetic

Cuban exiles.

CUESTA stated that the raiding party did

not notify U. S. Customs or INS of their departure or.

return to U. S. as they were föllowing the same pattern

previously set when such operations were carried

out with

the assistance and cooperation of the U. S. Government.

He claimed that if a responsible U. S. official had so

requested, he would have refrained

from making this raid.

He stated

that the action of the U. S. Government in

opposing this raid came as a complete surprise to him

and his companions in view of official statements and

previous actions of the U. S. Government with regard to

the Cuban situation.

U. S. Coast Guard took aerial photo-

graphs of the "Alisan" in the Cay Sal area several days

prior to the attack. U. S. Customs, Miami, searched and

Beach the a mama Marine toke out board

a ship's log reflecting various movements of this boat

during the pertinent period, a 20 mm. cannon, a quantity

of ammunition, explosives, sea charts and a code. On

3/28/63, FIDEL CASTRO issued statement from Havana Radio

Station

CMQ denouncing the 3/27/63 attack on the Soviet

cargo ship "Vaku," which was carrying sugar to the Soviet &

USCS

REVIEWED BY FEWJFK TASK FORCE

ON

11-24-97 das

- 1a -

SE RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

SECRET

DocId: 32333375 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date.

S5728163?1

Lieutenant AARON ROGERS, Assistant Intelligence

Officer, U.S. Coast Guard, Pan American Bank Building, Miami,

Florida, was contacted in the office of Commander G. D. CLIZBE,

Intelligence Office, U. S. Coast Guard. Commander CLIZBE was

present at the time of contact.

Lieutenant ROGERS advised that on Saturday, March

23, 1963, a U. S. Coast Guard plane, flying out of St. Peters-

burg, Florida, on routine search and rescue flight, located

a yacht at an unnamed key in the Cay Sal Bank between Damas

Cay and Anguila Cay. He pointed out that the location of

Location nas

the yacht was, at that point, approximately 75 miles north-

northwest of the Port of Caibarien on the northern coast of

Cuba.

Lieutenant ROGERS stated that the Coast Guard plane,

on March 23, 1963, took a photograph of the yacht which, he

stated, has

been identified by the Coast Guard as the Yacht

"Alisan." Lieutenant ROGERS displayed a copy of the Coast

Guard photograph of March 23, 1963, and it was noted that

the "Alisan"

appeared to be lying at anchor, and had tied to

its stern an inboard motorboat which appeared to be about

20 feet in length, and which had a rather long whip antenna

projecting from the location of the boat's windshield.

Also tied behind the "Alison" as noted from the photograph,

was a rubber, balloon-type boat which appeared to be 5 to 6

feet in length, and which contained a cylindrical object

which was about 4 feet in length and had the general appear-

ance of a depth bomb or underwater mine. Tied on, behind

the rubber craft, was a rowboat about 12 feet in length with

no motor observed on the transom.

Lieutenant ROGERS advised that on Sunday, March

24, 1963, a Coast Guard plane flying out of Ma let treese,

same craft, the 'Alisan,

in the same location as it was observed by the Coast Guard

plane on March 23, 1963.

Lieutenant ROGERS_stated that he,

himself, was aboard that flight, and that the Coast Guard

-78-

On

3/28/63

at

Miami, Florida

_ File #

Miami 105-7054

by

Special Agents JAMES J. O'CONNOR and

_ Date dictated m

43/28/63

PETER J. NERO: GK / pme

This doeument erature relther recovendation to elusions of the Fal leshe poperty or the Fal and la loaned to

your agency; It and its contents are not to-be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32333375 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-7054

photographer took four photographs of the "Alisan," which

still had the three small craft tied on behind. He stated

observation and the photographs were made at approximately

noon

on March 24, 1963.

Lieutenant ROGERS displayed the four photographs

and it was noted that in the photographs there could be

observed approximately eight individuals aboard the boats,

two of whom were taking pictures of the Coast Guard plane

at the time the photographs were being taken from the Coast

Guard plane.

Lieutenant ROGERS stated that again on March 25,

1963, the "Alisan" and the small boats tied to it were re-

ported by the Coast Guard plane flying out of St. Peters-

burg, Florida, to be observed in the same location where

no photographs were taken on March 25, 1963, however, and the

report of the "Alisan's" position was made by radio message.

Lieutenant ROGERS stated that all the islands of

the Cay Sal Bank, with the exception of Cayo Sal, itself,

are not permanently Inhabited and none has any water supply,

other than Cayo Sal, itself, so that the Coast Guard, in

making its flights, considers anyone found in these islands

to be marooned, unless it is obvious they are not experiencing

any difticulty:

He said there had been no signal of distress

from the individuals aboard the "Alisan" at the times the

Coast Guard plane flew over the yacht.

He stated there was no evidence of any weapons

aboard the "Alisan" at the time he, himself, observed the

craft on March 24, 1963.

DocId: 32333375 Page 5

---

## Page 6

" Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SEA

MM 105-7054

Lieutenant ROGERS advised that the Coast Guard

did not make a flight on March 26, 1963, to the location

where the "Alisan" had been observed on the previous

days, due to the fact that the plane was deferred to

another area on a search and rescue mission.

Lieutenant ROGERS pointed out that with respect

to the message received by his office relative to the

sighting of the "Alisan" by the Coast Guard plane on March

25, 1963, in the area petween Damas Cay and Anguila Cay,

it was not specifically stated that the vessel sighted

i can a steen tha

was the "Alisan," but from the description of the craft

there appeared little doubt but that the vessel described

was, in fact, the "Alisan."

Lieutenant ROGERS located a copy of the message

pertaining to the March 25, 1963, observation which was

received from the St. Petersburg, Florida, station of the

Coast Guard o

on March

• 26, 1963. The message stated:

"Sighted 50 foot cabin cruiser, white hull,

tan cabin, blue foredeck, at 23-42 N,

79-44 W, anchored at 1:10 P.M., name

not

discernible, five persons on board."

Lieutenant ROGERS furnished copies of the Coast

Guard photographs of the "Alisan" and accompanying craft

which had been taken on March 23 and 24, 1963.

Lieutenant ROGERS furnished a crew list of the

United States

Coast Guard planes that sighted the "Alisan"

SECRET

-80-

DocId: 32333375 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Reléased under the John 1. Kennedy Assassination Records Collertion Act at 1992 111 USE 2107 Mote

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRFI

MM 105-7054

GED : pme

on March 23, 24 and 25, 1963, and who took the photographs

on March 23 and 24, 1963, as

-follows:

Crew of Coast Guard Air Station, St. Petersburge

Florida, plane, March 23, 1963:

Lieutenant F. F. SILVIA, Pilot

Lieutenant J. G. STOELTJE

JOHNSON, ADI

STRIFF, AT3

ROGERS, SNAE

Grew of plane from Coast Guard Station,

Miami, Florida, March 24, 1963:

Lieutenant T. J. HOWARD, Pilot

Lieutenant J/GW. S. PAWLEY

R. F. THURK, ADZ

(Lieutenant AARON ROGERS was on this plane also.)

Coast Guard Air Station, St. Petersburg Plane,

March 25, 1963:

Lieutenant Commander WOLFARD, Pilot

Lieutenant J/G. J. M. BOWEN

ELKINS, AD2

GRIMES, AD2

CAPPS, AT

Lieutenant AARON ROGERS advised that R. F.

THURK, AD2, was the photographer on the March 24, 1963,

SECRET

DocId: 32333375

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECDET

MM 105-7054

GED : pmc

plane, and he assumes those with ratings of "ADl" or"AD2"

on the other planes were photographers, although he did

recall the exact rank designated by the single

"AD"

SECRET

-82-

DocId: 32333375

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dato

511(8,77963

Lt. J/G TIMOTHY J. HOWARD, U. S. Coast Guard

Reserve, U. S. Coast Guard Air Station, Miami, Florida,

advised as follows:

On March 24, 1963, Lt. HOWARD was the pilot of

a U.S. Coast Guard plane designated as the G 16, on routine

Key Patrol from Dinner Key, Miami, Florida, along the Florida

Keys, South to Anguila Key in the Bahamas and then North

through the Bahama Keys and back to Miami.

Lt. HOWARD recalled sighting the approximately

50-foot boat "Alisan" at approximately noon on March 24;

1963,

and his records show that the Coordinates at the place

of sighting were 23-43-N and 79 42-W. Lt. HOWARDrecalled

the sighting as 17 miles Northwest of Point Alfa or the

Southern tip of Anguila.

it and asked R. F. THURK, AD2, a photographer on board, to

take photographs. Lt. HOWARD went low over the boat several

times, giving THURK an opportunity to take

photographs.

HOWARD did not notice anything aboard the "Alisan"

• except

men and canvas. He cannot recall noting anything in the

auxiliary boats.

- 83-

4/3/63

Miami, Florida

Miami 105-7054

On

at

_ File #

SA PETER J. NERO

:j11

4/4/63

_ Date dictated**

Thia document eontalaa neither recommendatione nos conclusions of the FBl. I do the lapory Con

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32333375 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)

DERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIO

April 8, 1963

Dato _

ROBERT F. THURK, AD2, (Aviation Machinist Mate,

2nd Class), U.S. Coast Guard Air Station, Miami, Florida,

advised he was a member of the crew of a U. S. Coast Guard

plane of which Lt. HOWARD was the pilot on March 24, 1963 on

routine Key Patrol from Miami to the Bahamas.

THURK stated he acted as photographer aboard this

plane and he took 4 photographs of a suspicious-appearing

boat about 50 feet in length, which he was told was the

"Alisan"

The photographs taken by THURK were taken from

approximately 75 feet above the water while the plane was

at a speed of approximately 150 knots per hour..

THURK

stated he did not notice anything except the occupants of

the boat and canvas on the boat, inasmuch as he was

occupied taking the photographs.

pre-

-84-

4/3/63

Miami, Florida

On _

File #

Miami 205-7054RET

at

SA PETER J. NERO

: j11

4/4763

by

_Date dictated

Thie document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI: and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32333375 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records collection sot or 1992 (11 USC 2107 Tote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRE

MM 105-7054

GED : pnc

-1.

With regard to the information furnished by

SANTIAGO ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ on March 29, 1963, to the

there is a Negro by

cooperative and sympathetic, and has been of help to

ALVAREZ in the past by warning him of the arrival of

the British Bahamas Police boat in sufficient time for

arms

to be unloaded and hidden, with THOMPSON's help,

the following is set forth: &

On April 3, 1963, MM T-4, a confidential source

abroad, advised THOMPSON lives at Cay Sal. Bahamas, and

described him as a tide waiter employed by the Customs

Department of the Nassau Goverpment. Of (5)

With regard to the 23-foot speedboat used by

the raiders in this case, on April 3, 1963 /MM T-I,

employed by a Federal agency which conducts Intelligence

a Feder case,

investigations, reported that a source who is the

United States owner of a marina which is intimately

connected with maritime matters in the Florida Keys,

had advised it was possible that the boat in this case

is a 22-foot vessel bearing Florida registration FL0320F.

Mexico

MM T-1

said this boat has a blue hull, golden deck, a

white canvas top, and is registered to ISIDROXBORGAS, a

Drive, North Miami, Florida.

With regard to ANDREW ST. GEORGE, a professional

photographer who participated in this raid, on April 3,

• 1963, Mr. GLENN R. ADAMS, Immigration and Nturalization

Service (INS), Miami, advised the real name of ANDREW

ST. GEORGE is ANDRES SZENTGYORGYI, pronounced ST. GEORGE,

Para 4 does not warsant classification

Per INS Letter 4119189

50165K|RB6 60\95181

-1lp=

SECRET

better

DocId: 32333375

Page 11

---

