# docid-32580318

## Page 1

HH 45945

DocId: 32580318

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDEF

REPORTING OFFICE

LOS ANGELES

TITLE OF CASE

JOHN ROSELLI, aka.

JUREAU OF IVY

ITION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

LOS ANGELES

DATE

6/11/62

REPORT MADE BY

HAROLD F. DODGE

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVES 5/IVE 6/6/62

AR

TYPED BY

VJS

REFERENCES: Report of SA HAROLD F. DODGE dated 5/10/62

at Los Angeles.

Dally teletyped to Bureau.

New York letter to Los Angeles dated 5/15/62

(Interoffice).

Los Angeles teletypes to Las Vegas dated

5/22 and 5/28/62 (Interoffice).

Las Vegas teletypes to Los Angeles dated

5/20, 5/29, and 5/31/62 (Interoffice):

Newark letter to los Angeles dated 5/28/62

(Interoffice).

Los Angeles airtel to las Vegas dated 5/31/62

(Interoffice)

Los engales airtel to San Diego dated 6/1/62

(Interoffice).

Las Vegas airtel to Los Angeles dated 6/1/62

(Interoffice).

-p-

APPROVED

SPECIAL, AGEN

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:...

4-

Bureau

1-

1 192-32(7) (EMETER)

USA,

Los Aggries

Attn: LUSA AHGaVON)

- Las Vegas (02-457)

2

- Los Angeles (02-ioPits

Dissemination Record of Attached Repor

pit

DESTROKI

197237

eatations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

Ho

cla 410

By-r

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-3261-

227

B JUN 18 1962

REC- 33

EX-105

STAT. SECTA

NW 45945 DooId: 32580318 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 92-113

Pacific Telephone Company,

GSLA 1179-S.

Baris of America, Sunset-laurel Branch,

jos Angeles, California,

KENNETTI DUNCAN, Operations Officer.

Division of Corporations, State of California,

Los Angeles, California,

LOREN E. STIFFLER, Supervising Special

Investigations.

Ias Vegas Office suggested and the Los Angeles Office

agreed that MONTE PROSER should be interviewed concerning know-

ledge he might have concerning ROSSELLI's activities.

on 5/18, 62s

• the las Vegas office advised by airtel

that several inquiries at the Thunderbird Hotel failed to locate

MONTE FROSER and that on 5/17/52 SA MEFLE B. PARKER ascertained

that PROSER Was in New Yonk anchis expected date of return to

Las Vegas was untrova

Azrangements were made for an appointment

with PROSER as soon as he returns to las Vegas.

A lead is being

set out for las Vegas to interview PROSER upon his return to

Las Vegas,

on 5/5/02, VERY LYNCH. Special Agent

Revenue Senvice (1R5) Ins Angeles, Calliornia,

Internal

JFK Law 11(a)

BRS

REVIEWED BY EBIJFK TASK FORCE

ON

1/28/98

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

- IT TOTAL DENIAL

COVER PAGE

NW 45945 DooId: 32580318 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA 92-113

In this connection, Lieutenant M. B. PHILLIPS, LAPD,

Intelligence Division, on 5/21/62 advised SA FRANK H.

TOWNSEND

that RUSSELT CHOOLEY of the Intelligence Division of the DA's

Offise in Reno, Mevada, had written to the LAPD requesting a

photograph of JOHN ROSSELLI.

IRS

VERN LYNCH also mentioned that auk. Law lu(al time

In this connection, it is noted that las

Vegas received information from the manager of the Diplomat

Apartments that he had learned from the mail carrier that someone

was checking ROSSELLI's mail.

INFORMANTS:

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and I symbols were utilized only in those instances

where the identities of the sources must be concealed.

LA I-13

LA 3445-C

LA T-23

FRANK LOBER, Cashier;

Ahmanson Bank and Trust Co.

LA T-28

ROBERT VREELAND, Studio Manager,

Hal Roach Studios, Culver City

LA T-57:

Mrs. IRVING GOTTLIEB,

1261 North Crescent Heights

Boulevard, Ios Angeles

LA T-59'

IV 39-0*

IN T.62

IA 4321-0*

-E-

COVER PAGE

HH

45945 DocId: 32580318 Page 4

---

## Page 5

LA 92-113

LA 'T 71

VANCE WALIACE, Former Manager,

Para Crescent Apartments,

1252061 No Crescent Heights Blva.,

Ios Angeles

L.A.

.P-79

IA. 4579-PC

3. PHILIPS, LAPD,

Intelligence Division

IA 1:200

SA JAMES GO SCUMIDT, Who currently

resides in

the apartment adjacent to

RossEll under a flositious name..

IA. 7205

Lite

4396--C

TA I'-120

BEESY DUNCAN, POT

POI JACK A, ' SHROADER, Ia3

Vegas

Manager, Diplomat Apartmenüs,

Las Vegas

IA T-34

IA. 4268-0

JFK Law 11(a)

15

Doderat

Irasme

Tax Reconds

(calends. gear

from Bureau

to Los Angeles by letter 8/25/58

Los Angeles file 97-288-1A1-1A5

COVER PAGE

HIH

45945 DooId: 32580318 Page 5

---

## Page 6

JOHN ROSELI, aka.

Los Angeles T-100

Los Angeles I-105

Los Angeles T-110

Los Angeles I-I13

Los Angeles I-114

Los Angeles T-115

Los Angeles T-116

Los Angeles I-117

Los Angeles I-118

Los Angeles T-119

HH 45945

DocId:32580318 Page 6

A source who lives in the vicinity

of ROSSELLI's apartment in Los

Angeles,

California.

A source in a position to furnish

some information regarding ROSSELLI's

activities in Los

Angeles.

A personal friend of JOHN ROSSELLI.

"An individual who resides in the

Immediate vicinity of ROSSELLI's

Las Vegas apartment.

An individual who frequents the

Friars Club, Beverly Hills, Calif.

1957 Federal Income Tax Returns of

JOSEPH E. SHAW.

A source who is able to furnish

information regarding mail received

by JOSEPH E. SHAW, 504 South Wilton

Place in 1958.

A private organization which main-

tains records relative to business

concerns in the greater New York

area.

An employee of the Internal Revenue

Service,

Los Angeles, California.

An employee of the Union Bank and

Trust Company, Los Angeles, Calif.

-2-

---

