# docid-32287466

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10197-10242

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-1274

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/14/1972

3

GAL, MRS. ALEX, PLANS TRIP TO WEST GERMANY,

GREECE, ENGLAND AND FRANCE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS:

INC CABLEGRAM

v9.1

• DocId: 32287466

Page 1

96

---

## Page 2

Released, under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USe

11-14-2017

.O..o

NRB20 CG. CODED

919PM NITEL: 2-14 - 72 RWR

TO DIRECTOR (92-3182)

MIAMI (92-195)

LAS VEGAS

FROM CHICAGO (92-373)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

FF.B 1 41972 AMN

TELE

УРЕЇ

2P

Mr. Felt.

MI.

Rosen

Mr. Mohr_

Mr. Bishop-

Mr. Miller, ES.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. Dalbey-

Mi. Cleveland

Mr, Fonder

Mr. Bates_

Mr. Waikart_

Mr. Waliers

Mr. Soyars

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes_

Miss Gandy

Hotel.

8564

1S149-15

GUS ALEX, AKA• AR. 00: CHICAGO.

CG SEVEN ZERO ONE SIX • C • TE ADVISED FEBRUARY FOURTEEN,

INSTANT, THAT ALEX DEPARTED CHICAGO AREA FEBRUARY TWELVE,

LAST, WITH HIS WIFE. CTE ADVISED THAT ALEX'S ULTIMATE DESTINATION

IS EUROPE WHERE HE WILL TAKE EXTENSIVE PLEASURE TOUR.

ST-106

HOWEVER, PRIOR TO TIME ALEX LEAVES UNITED STATES, HE MUST REC-47

MEET FIRSTWITH ANTHONY S• ACCARDO AND SIDNEY RO KORSHAK 92-3/82127Y

TO IRON OUT A PROBLEM WHICH HAS ARISEN IN LAS VEGAS, EXACT

FEB 17 1972

NATURE OF WHICH CTE IS UNAWARE.

CTE BELIEVES ALEX INTENDS TO SPEND BRIEF PERIOD PRIOR TO

HIS DEPARTURE FOR EUROPE AT HIS FORT LAUDERDALE CONDOMINIUM AND

MAY BE THERE NOW.

MIAMI REQUESTED TO ALERT ESTABLISHED SOURCE RE PRESENCE OF

ALEX THERE AND ATTEMPT TO FOLLOW HIS ACTIVIIES IF LOCATED. CTE

NOTED THAT SINCE THANKSGIVING ALEX HAS SPENT SEVEN WEEKS IN FORT

LAUDERDALE AND FOUR IN CHICAGO.

END PAGE: ONE Cablegramto POD: ROin

nitingster

2-15-72

WAH. bag

DocId: 32287466 Page 2

---

