# docid-32156919

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10119-10287

RECORD_SERIES:

LV

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-48-39

Released under the John

• Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

IO:

TITLE:

SAC. LV

DIRECTOR. FBI

DATE: 11/29/1963

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 44-24016-288

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

03/11/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/23/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53025

DocId: 32156919

Page 1

---

## Page 2

F[:36 (Rei: 12-13756)

• i.

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPE

PLAIN TEXT

FBI

Date:

November 29, 1963

(Type in plain text or code)

URGENT

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR (44-24016)

SAC, DALLAS (44-1639)

FROM: SAC, LAS VEGAS (44-48) (P)

JACK LEON RUBY, AKA; LEE HARVEY OSWALD / VICTIM / DECEASED; CR.

RE LAS VEGAS TEL TO THE BUREAU AND DALLAS DATED NOVEMBER

TWENTY SEVEN, LAST.

THE FOLLOWING INVESTIGATION WAS CONDUCTED LAS VEGAS, NEVADA.

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

SHERIFF RALPH LAMB, LAS VEGAS, NEVADA, ADVISED SAC DEAN W.

ELSON, ON NOVEMBER TWENTY NINE INSTANT, THAT HE HAD RECEIVED THE

FOLLOWING INFORMATION FROM A VERY RELIABLE SOURCE.

ON NOVEMBER SIXTEEN, LAST, JACK RUBY WAS AT THE TROPICANA

"HOSted"

HOTEL, LAS VEGAS, NEVADA, AND WAS QUOTE ROMANERD UNQUOTE BY PRESTON

FINEBERG, A PART OWNER OF THE TROPICANA HOTEL. TROPICANA

MAINTAINS ROLLS ROYCE COURTESY CAR FOR SPECIAL GUESTS, AND RUBY HAD

THIS CAR AT HIS DISPOSAL WHILE AT THE TROPICANA. LAMB DID NOT

REVEAL THE IDENTITY OF HIS SOURCE.

ON NOVEMBER TWENTY NINE, INSTANT, PCI PEARLETTA MC KINNEY

/ PROTECT IDENTITY/, ASSISTANT SUPERVISOR, TELEPHONE OFFICE,

SEARCHED-

SERIALIEID

CFF: aph h

(1)M

INDEXED

FILED.

44

1=46-39

Sent

1038

PM

Per

Нек

Approved:

Speciat

Agent in Charge

HH 53025 DocId:32156919

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD836 (Rol: 12-13956)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

LV 44-48

PAGE THREE

PCI HAVER WAS TOLD RUBY WAS IN LAS VEGAS WEEKEND OF NOVEMBER

SEVENTEEN, LAST, AND PLAYED GOLE AT TROPICANA GOLF CLUB WITH

FINEBERG. RUBY ALLEGEDLY GAVE GOLF CADDY A DRINK CARD BEARING

RUBY/S NAME AND HIS CLUB IN DALLAS, TEXAS. PCI ADVISED RUBY HAS

USED THE NAMES RUBIN OR RUBEN AND HAS BROUGHT STRIPPERS TO LAS VEGAS

AND HAS OFTEN REGISTERED AT TROPICANA MOTEL AS MR. AND MRS. WHILE

STAYING IN LAS VEGAS, WITH THESE GIRLS.

LV FIFTY FOUR / C, ON NOVEMBER TWENTY NINE, INSTANT, ADVISED

SA ROBERT D. LEE, LAS VEGAS TELEPHONE NUMBER SEVEN THREE FIVE / FOUR

THREE ZERO THREE WAS A NON / PUB NUMBER LISTED TO LEWIS MC WILLIE,

THREE SIX TWO SEVEN EASTERN AVENUE, LAS VEGAS, NEVADA.

NOTE MC WILLIE INTERVIEWED NOVEMBER TWENTY FIVE, LAST, BY LAS

VEGAS, REGARDING THIS MATTER.

PCI PAUL F. COE, ASSISTANT MANAGER, THUNDERBIRD HOTEL, ADVISED

SA WAYNE H. DRAKE THIS DATE A RECHECK OF HOTEL RECORDS FAILED TO

REFLECT ANY RECORDO OF SUBJECT. PCI COE FURTHER STATED NO RECORDS

MAINTAINED ON INCOMING CALLS TO THUNDERBIRD HOTEL.

DETAILS:

CURRENT LAS VEGAS CITY DIRECTORY REVEALS TELEPHONE NUMBER

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

WH 53025 DocId:32156919 Page 3

Sent

_M

Per

---

