# docid-32299397

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10225-10177

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-114543-211

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE :

FBI

OBRIEN, FRANCIS J.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/14/1964

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

JURE, LEADERSHIP, RCD, RESIGNATION, MR, ASSOC, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32299397

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

Reteased under the John. F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

13/251641

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

171 + 00-971

SAN - JUAN

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

REPORT SADE BY

8/26-10/2/64

FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

pigh

(JURE)

IS-CUBA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN I8 UNCLASSIFIED

DATE /6-22-94BY SP& MEC ASR

(JFK)

DECLASSIFIED BY

REFERENCE:

ON 7/8/85

New York report of SA FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

dated

8/12/64.И

_P-

12.x83

Doctassity on: - DADR

INFORMANTS:

Identity of source

I-]

4116-Sd

(ui

NY T-2

ALBERTO FERNANDEZ

255. Buttonwood Drive

Key Biscayne, Florida

(request) i

File No. Where Located

134-8343A-41 - 44

105-42570-158

0-17 to Nous York

Date

Date 1g 157

26-604

Remarks 00.

is MiAmi

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

"COMES MADE:

11.

Bureau

1-

(105-114543) (RM)

Miam1 (105-6661) (Info) (RM)

1-

San Juan (105*6242) (Info)

1-

(RM)

washington Field (105-52281)

(Info) (RM)

1- New York (105-42570)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

1051114543

2/1

8 ОСТ 16 1964

SECH

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date. Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

ONI/OSI/AOSI

by routing sip for into.

Date flint wir.

USCG/CRiAmiNS

TAL

ALLiNTORMATELEONTRINED

HEREIN I SANCIAGGIED

EXCERT WHERE SAPWN

OTHERWISE

DocId: 32299397 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CORESENTAL

NY 105-42570

INFORMANTS: (CONT 'D)

Identity of Source

NY T-3

EMILIO J. BARQUIN-

PSI under development

UL NY I-4

ZACHARY DE GASTER

10 East 40th Street

New York City

(request)

LEADS:

FIle No. Where Located

134-9717A-9

Instant report page 7

MIAMI, SAN JUAN and WFO (INFORMATION)

Information copies of this report are being furnished

to Miami, San Juan and WFO because of their continuing

interest

in this investigation. U

NEW YORK

established oK, tV1 mat the Juta t

. Will maintain contact with

NYC. U

COVER PAGE

B*

CONLIUENLYCORENTIRL

DocId: 32299397 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released inder the John F. Kerinedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL®

NY 105-42570

CHIBAS advised that the JURE In New York City has been

most inactive during the past few months and he doubted

that there would be any noticeable increase of activity

in the organization within the immediate future.(f)

CHIBAS stated on September 29, 1964, that there

has been a certain degree of dissension

within the

ranks of the JURE because of the failure of MANUEL

RAY to get into Cuba as he had predicted. CHIBAS stated

that in his last conversation with RAY prior to his

ersationd

departure from Miami, RAY told CHIBAS that he had every

intention of returning to Cuba before the end of 1964.

CHIBAS said that he did not know how RAY was going to

achieve this or what RAY's plans were but he felt sure that

RAY would make more attempts in the near future. (U)

NY T-3 on September 29, 1964, stated that

he had recently made a business trip to San Juan, Puerto

Rico, and had spent five days there.

While in Puerto

Rico, NY T-3 stated that he had conferred with a reilable

man in JUrE, who had been sent, there from Miami, by the

FLA.

name of (First Name Unknown) MUTARL.

NY I-3 stated that

BUTARI 1s an individual responsible for keeping the records

and the finances for the North and Northwest sections of

the JURE in Puerto Rico.

During one meeting with

BUTARI, NY T-3 stated that he had an opportunity to 100k

at the

membership list of the North and Northwest sections

and ascertained that there were 414 members listed and

that these individuals contributed on a regular basis sums

of money ranging from $.25 to $5.00. NY I-3 further

• on September 29, 1964

1s a sizeable group of veterans of the Bay of Pigs

Invasion. (U)

NY T-3 stated that MANOLO RAY has returned to

San Juan, Puerto Rico, but during his last trip there,

he dd not have an opportunity to speak with RAY (4)

- 6 -

CONEXRSNTIAL

DocId: 32299397 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassmation Hecords Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 105-42570

CONHRENTIAL

learned. from individuals close to

RAY in Puerto Rico that RAY has been travelling regularly

and has spent extended periods of time throughout the

Caribbean. NY T-3 said that it is rumored that RAY

has made a couple of trips into Cuba but he could not

vouch for the veracity of this rumor.(U)

NY T-3 advised that he had been requested by

the JURE to carry forth a program in universities in the

New York area which would familiarize the college students

with the program of the JURE.

NY I-3 said that it was

most difficult to establish organizations within

universities within the New York metropolitan area

because the students have such a distance to travel

and are reluctant to stay after school hours, and

secondly, so many of the JURE members in New York are

engaged in making a living and have little time to

devote to such a program.(u)

NY T-3 stated that the JURE In New York City

1s not active,has no real program or project, is lacking

in leadership and its headquarters at 104 West 43rd

Street, New York City, has become nothing more than a gathering

for members who

want to get out of their homes at

night. (UL),

NY T-3 stated that RAUL CHIBAS, the leader

of the JURE in New York, has returned to

New York from

Miami, is again teaching school In Long Island, but

has not the drive or leadership to do anything constructive

for the JURE In the New York area. ()

NY I-4, on October 2, 1964, stated that he

has not received any contact from any JURE members in the

last three months.

NY I-4 advised that RAUL CHIBAS:

who was supposed to be in contact with him regarding

the: possibility of purchasing weapons, has not contacted

him although NY I-4 had heard that CHIBAS had recently

returned to New York from Miami. (EL)

-7*-

CODSBENTIAL

DocId: 32299397 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, New Zork (105-42570)

REC- 125

Director,

FBI (105-114543) - 201

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBAÑA (JURE)

IS - CUBA

- Mr. Nasca

12-3-64

D

Berep of SA Francis J. O'Brien 10-14-64 at New Yorls.

contained in reno miocing an one del cateraties

in view of his presence in Nassau,

Prepare memorandum suitable for dissemination,

incorporating the infornation concerning Die la Carrera,

Include pertinent information concerning hin which is available

in your files.

British authorities are extremely interested in the

presence of anti- Castro exiles in the Bahamas.

Handle

expeditiously.

1 - Miami: (105-6661)

I - San Juan (105-6242)

1 - WTO (105-52281)

1.c

97-3629

VEN :rth: gow

(De la Carrera)

(8)

DATE 10-25-83 0r 4288. RC&let

10-22-94

sp8 mAc/isk

(JFIC)

MAILED 6

OCT 3 0 1964

COMM-FBI

son

lImont

roach

Der

chan

od

58 NOV

1964

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32299397

Page 6

---

