# docid-32308875

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10297-10002

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-2521

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/12/1969

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

LCN, OC, ASSOC A/O MEMBERS, CRIMINAL ACT, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32308875

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -

P056 R6-14-2521

55. 3-22-841

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

F B I

Date:

2/12/69

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

FROM: 2m

Huge, NEW ZORK (92-2300)

RE:

LCN

LA COSA MOSTRA

AR-CONSPIRACY

NY 6436-C-TE was contacted on 2/5/69 and furnished

the following information concerning a large meeting of LCN

members prior to the Apalachian meeting:

Approximately two months prior to the Apalachin meet-

ing, there was a very large meeting of LN members, including

the Conmission, at the estate of RICHIE BOIARDO in New Jersey.

Informant attended this meeting.

Informant related that this gathering of LCN members

at BOIARDO's estate was greater in attendance than the Apalachin

meeting•

Among the most prominent individuals in attendance were

JOE BONANNO, SAM GIANCANA, VITO GENOVESE, CARLO GAMBINO, STEVE

MAGADDINO, JOE IDA and JOE ZERRILI. These individuals comprised

the representation of the Commission.

The meeting began on one

day at 12 Noon and continued through the night until 5 A.M.

the next day. Informant advised that he drove to the meeting

with several members of the GAMBINO group from Brooklyn.

drove to a big restaurant in Newark, New Jersey, which informant

advised he believed was owned by JERRY CATENA.

They parked

their automobile in the parking lot of this restaurant where

they were met by "made guys" from New Jersey who had their own

automobiles. They got out of their car, as did others, and

the Jersey "nade guys" acted as chauffeurs and drove them to

RICHIE BOIARDO's house two at a time.

The purpose of this meeting was to discuss the

ANASTASIA killing•

Informant advised the Commission members were

"feeling the pulse" of the attendees.

The Commission, of course,

NEWARK (92-1203)

- PHILADELPHIA (92-1027 REC 4

1- NEW YORK (137-142797

1 - NEW XORK (92-2300)

-50: 00G

SEN MY

EX-112

Sent

1/ MAR Special

al Agent in Charge

92-60542521

3.3

17 FEB 13 1969

DocId: 32308875

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NX 92-2300

It is pointed out to the Bureau that in January

1963, NY 3864-C-TE (deceased, member source, advised that the

Apalachin meeting was a continuation of a meeting held earlier

at RICHIE's farm (RICHARD BOIARDO) wherein an explanation was

offered re the necessity for slaying ALBERT ANASTASIA.

the leaders present were identified as VITO GENOVESE, TOMMY

LUCHESE, JOE RICCOBONO, JOE BIONDO, TOMMY RAVA and numerous

others. Further, that the Apalachin meeting was subsequently

set up to advise

the national hoodlum groups inasmuch as

only metropolitan LCN members attended the N.J. meeting.

3

Jd+

DocId: 32308875

Page 3

---

