# docid-32305503

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10288-10133

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-774

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/24/1962

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

ABR, AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305503

Page 1

433

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• 4-41 (Rev. 10-16-62)

• Radio

DECODED COPY

whiter

** Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper.

Callahan

So Canada

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

SURGENT 77-27-62

6:50 PM EST UTA

TO

Dy RECTOR!

FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA 242225

D

ANGELO BRUNO, AKA, AR. 00, PHo

Сукі

REBUTEL NOVEMBER 23 LAST.

"CAT" WILL BE INSTALLED IN 1962 CHEVROLET IMPALA,

FOUR DOOR SEDANO CONTEMPLATED INSTANT CAR AVAILABLE

NIGHTSS OF NOVEMBER 26 AND 27 GIVING ADDED TIME FOR

TECHNICAL PERSONNEL TO FAMILIARIZE SELVES. PH INTERESTED

IN: VOÏCE TRANSMISSION AND RECORDING SAME. MONITORING

WILL BE FROM APPROPRIATELY EQUIPPED BU CARO FIXED LOS

CATIONS FOR MONITORING WILL BE CONSIDERED IF NEEDED AT

FUTURE-DATE •C "CAT" SHOULD UTILIZE FREQUENCY PRESENTLY

ASSIGNED PHO IF POSSIBLE, HOWEVER, FREQUENCY SHOULD

BE ONE COMMON TO NEW YORK, NEWARK AND PH OFFIGES.

PH HAS PERSONNEL SLIGHTLY KNOWLEDGEABLE WITH "CAT"

OPERATION, BUT NONE EXPERIENCED WITH SAME. REQUEST BUREAU

ALERT TECHNICAL PERSONNEL DESIGNATED TO MAKE INSTALLATION

TENTATIVE DATE NOVEMBER 26-27, AND ADVISE PH OF INDIVIDUAL

DESIGNATED. WHEN INSTANT CAR

AVAILABLE TO BUREAU, DES

IGNATED PERSONNEL WILL BE ADVISED BY PHO INSTALLATION

WILL BE MADE ON SECOND FLOOR OF COMMERCIAL AUTO BODY REPAIR

SHOP AFTER REGULAR WORKING HOURS. FULL SECURITY AFFORDEDO

ST-10%

CONRA

1f3066

fer

g NOW 50 1962

12-3.

55 DEC6

1962

If the intelligence contained in the above message is

to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32305503 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE* 11-14-2017

$: 4-41 (Rev. 10-16-62)

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper -

Callahan

DECODED COPY

Radio

DeLo

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Teletype

Hitten

URGENT

11-24-62

6:50 PM EST JTA

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA 242225

ANGELO BRUNO, AKA, AR. 00, PHo

REBUTEL NOVEMBER 23 LAST.

"CAT" WILL BE INSTALLED IN 1962 CHEVROLET IMPALA$

FOUR DOOR SEDAN® CONTEMPLATED INSTANT CAR AVAILABLE

NIGHTSOF NOVEMBER 26 AND 27 GIVING ADDED TIME FOR

TECHNICAL PERSONNEL TO FAMILIARIZE SELVES. PH INTERESTED

IN TOICE TRANGMISSION AND RECORDING SAME.

MONITORING

WILE BE: FRONGAPPROPRIATELY EQUIPPED BU CAR. FIXED LOS

CATLONS FOR MONITORING WILL BE CONSIDERED IF NEEDED AT

FUTIRE ATE SCAT" SHOULD UTILIZE FREQUENCY PRESENTLY

ASSIGNED PHO IF POSSIBLE, HOWEVER, FREQUENCY SHOULD

BE ONE COMMON TO NEW YORK, NEWARK

AND PH OFFICES.

PH HAS PERSONNEL SLIGHTLY KNOWLEDGEABLE WITH "CAT"

OPERATION, BUT NONE EXPERIENCED WITH SAME. REQUEST BUREAU

ALERT TECHNICAL PERSONNEL DESIGNATED TO MAKE INSTALLATION

TENTATIVE DATE NOVEMBER 26-27= AND ADVISE PH OF INDIVIDUAL

DESIGNATED. WHEN INSTANT CAR

AVAILABLE TO BUREAU, DES-

IGNATED PERSONNEL WILL BE ADVISED BY PHa INSTALLATION

WILL BE MADE ON SECOND FLOOR OF COMMERCIAL AUTO BODY REPAIR

SHOP AFTER REGULAR WORKING HOURS, FULL SECURITY AFFORDED.

W0A Sm100:

92-2717-774

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32305503 Page 3

---

