# docid-32297175

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10218-10451

RECORD SERIES : HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-224

Released under the John

. Kennedy

issassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 54027 Date:

08-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DAVIS, GEORGE E.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/13/1965

'PAGES:

, 17

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, OBA, ASSOC, ACA, FOREIGN PRINCIPAL, FUNDS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.!

1H 54027

DooId: 32297175

23

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL' BUREAU OF INVÉSTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

(MIRR)

DATE

AU6 / 31965

REPORT MADE BY

GEORGE E. DAVIS

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7/23 - 8/10/65

TYPED BY

JMS

IS - CUBA

NM

REFERENCE:

Bureau letter 7/15/65 to Miami.

-Р -

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEROIN IS, UNGLASSIFIED

ADMINISTRATIVE

BATE 9/12/85

2/27/98 BY 26 ba/scl

Copies are being furnished New York and San Juan

for information purposes since the MIRR has some repre-

JFK)

sentatives in those areas.

233

diese i

The Miami Office has not interviewed MIKE RAFFERTY

Or MELVIN HAYES, as requested by the Department of Justice,

because previous investigation has reflected that RAFFERTY

and HAYES are relatively newcomers and their contact with

BOSCH has been largely through BILL JOHNSON, who has been

interviewed.

APPROVED

оріся

• V

SPECIAL AGENT

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

12

• (97-4474) (RM)

Bu Ju (Into 49(205-2609 97-4474-224

1 - New York (Info.) (RM)

REC 11T

1 - Miami (105-2855)

FOR ADDITIONAL COPIES SEE PAGE B

15 AUG 16 1965

_ AGENCY..

EQUEST RECD..

ITE FWO. -

DISSEMINATION RECORE PT ATTAGHED REPORT

NOTATIONS

105 T

Copy to:

CIA/State/RAO" DIAlUSCG

ONI/OSI/ACSI

customs CRinmios -StAte

Dy rout

Date.

ng dip for. into

destro

LEPS13F

1.8. 009 KANNENT PRINTINO OFFICE

18-78824-1

N

НН 54027 DocId:32297175 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-2855

COPIES (Continued)

1 - ONI, DIO 6ND, Charleston, S.C.

1

• CIA, Miami

1

- G-2, Ft. McPherson, Ga:

1

- INS, Miami

- OSI,

Robins AFB, Ga.

1 - Border Patrol, Miami

1 - U.S: Customs, Miami

I - U.S: Customs; Region II, Miami

- U.S: Customs, Key West

- U.S. Coast Guard, Miami

1 - State Dept., Cuban Affairs, Miami

ADMINISTRATIVE (Continued)

A review of the entire file in this case, dating

back over a period of several years, fails to reflect that

either BOSCH or the MIRR has a foreign principal inside

Cuba or any other foreign country... It is felt that no

further investigation for the purpose of attempting to

establish if the MIRR has a foreign principal is just1-

fied at the present time.

INFORMANTS

MM T-1 IS EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ, Key Source - Cuban.

MM T-2 is MM 635-S.

MM T-3 is JOSE GARCIGA, 20A N.W. 24th Avenue, Miami.

COVER PAGE

HH 54027 DocId:32297175 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-2855

BOSCH receives funds from inside Cuba or any other foreign

country, as the MIRR 1s financed through fund raising campaigns

carried

on by BOSCH and his organization in the United States,

including Puerto Rico.

Most of this money is raised in the

Miami area.

It is to be noted that JOHNSON was arrested with

BOSCH and four other individuals on June 10, 1965, near

Orlanda, Florida by U.S. Customs Agents on charges of at-

tempting to illegally ship arms and explosives out of the

United States.

on August 2, 1965, MM I-l, a Cuban exile who has

been closely associated with the MIRR in revolutionary

matters over a period of several years, advised that BOSCH

is the head of the MIRk, which exists only in the United

States, Including Puerto Rico.

_MEMBER OF 2091E01

MON

He described the MIRR as being a very small or-.

ganization with only 5 or 6 really ative members. MM I-1

said that BOSCH is not responsible to anyone or any organ-

ization located in Cuba or in any other foreign country.

BOSCH, and several of his close associates in Miami, includ-

ing MARCELINO GARCIA JIMENEZ, LAREDO RODRIGUEZ, RIVERA,

make all the decisions concerning pians and operations.

MM T-l pointed out that from time to time BOSCH

makes extravagant announcements indicating that he has a

following inside Cuba, and receives the support of many

people in the United States, however, this is strictly

propaganda released for the purpose of enhancing BOSCH's

image as a revolutionary leader.

• 3.

NN 54027 DooId:32297175 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-2855

On August 2, 1965, MM T-2, a Cuban exile who is

well informed concerning some of the revolutionary activities-

of BOSCH and other members of his organization, advised that

to his knowledge, the MIRR does not exist outside of the

United States, and the undisputed chief of the organization

is ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, who lives at 2121 S.W. 11th Street,

Miami. He said the MIRR maintains its headquarters at

1661 W. Flagler Street, and conducts all official business

either, from this office or from the Miami homes of some

of the members. MEMBER OF SUBECT ORCANZATION

I sie Ne?

MM T-2 furnished a copy of a letter dated July,

1965, written on stationery of the MIRR,, signed by bI.

ORLANDO BOSCH as Coordinator; MARCELINO GARCIA! as Member

of the Board, and LAREDO RODRIGUEZ as Secretary of Einance,

MM T-2 advised he had never seen any evidence of

the existence of any MIRR organization or leadership out-

side of the United States.

On August 10, 1965, MM T-3, a Cuban exile who 18

still a member of the MIRR, but inactive, furnished the

following information:

The MIRR has no, leadership, no organization, and

no representation inside Cuba. DI. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA 18

the sole Chief.

The leadership and direction stems from a

small group headed by BOSCH in Miami.

MM I-3 said the MIRR receives no funds and no

direction from Cuba or any other foreign country. The

members are responsible only to BOSCH and the other.

officers, all of whom live in Miami.

- 4 *

НН 54027 DocId:32297175 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 105-2855

COPIES (Continued)

1 - ONI, DIO GND, Charleston, S.G.

1 - CIA, Miami

1 - Go2, Ft. McPherson, Ga.

1 ~ 1N5, Miamt

1 - 051, Robins AFB, Ga.

1 - Border Patrol, Alaul

1 - U.S. Customs, Miami

-'U.S. Customs, Region II, Miami

1" U.S. Customs, Key West

1 = U.S. Coast Guard, Miami

1 - State Dept., Cuban Affairs, Miami

ADMITNISTRATIVE (Continued)

A review of the entire file in this case, dating

back over a period of several yeaxs, fails to reflect that

either BOSCH or the MIRR has a foreign principal inside

Cuba or any other foreign country. It 1s felt that no

further Investigation for the purpose of attempting to

establish 1f the MIRR has a foreign principal ls justi-

fied at the present time.

INFORMANTS

IM T-I I8 EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ, Key Source - Cuban.

MM I-2 IS MM 635-S.

MM T-3 IS JOSE GARGIGA, 2QA N.W. 24ch Avenue, Miami.

....

• B.

COVER PAGE

HH 54027 DooId:32297175

Page 6

---

## Page 7

MM 105-2855

BOSCH receives funds from inside Cuba or any other foreign

country, as the MIRR is financed through fund raising campaigns

carried on by BOSCH and his organization in the United States,

including Puerto Rico. Most of this money is raised in the.

Miami area.

It is to be noted that JOHNSON was arrested with

BOSCH and four other individuals on June 10, 1965, near

Orlando, Florida by U.S. Customs Agents on charges of at-

tempting to illegally ship arms and explosives out of the

United States.

matters over a period of several years, advised that BOSCH

is the head of the MIRR, which exists only in the United

States, Including Puerto Rico.

He described the MIRR as being a very small or

ganization with only 5 or 6 really ative members. MM T-l

said that BOSCH is not responsible to anyone or any organ-

ization located in Cuba or in any other foreign country.

BOSCH, and several of his close associates in Miami, Includ-

ing MARCELINO GARCIA JIMENEZ, LAREDO RODRIGUEZ RIVERA,

make all the decisions concerning plans and operations.

MM I-l pointed out that from time to time BOSCH

makes extravagant announcements indicating that he has a

following inside Cuba, and receives the support of many

.. people in the United States, however, this is strictly

propaganda released for the purpose of enhancing BOSCH's

image as a revolutionary leader.

•3=

НН 54027 DocId:32297175 Page 7

---

## Page 8

MM 105-2855

On August 2, 1965, MM T-2, a Cuban exile who 1s

well informed concerning some of the revolutionary activities-

of BOSCH and other members of his organization, advised that

to his knowledge, the MIRR does not exist outside of the

United States, and the undisputed chief of the organization

13. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, who lives at 2121 S.W. 11th Street,

Miami. He said the MIRR maintains its headquarters at

1661 W. Flagler Street, and conducts all official business

elther, from this office or from the Miami homes of some

of the members.

MM T-2 furnished a copy of a letter dated July,

1965, written on stationery of the MIRR, signed by Dr.

ORLANDO BOSCH as Coordinator; MARCELINO GARCIA as Member

of the Board, and LAREDO RODRIGUEZ as Secretary of Finance.

MM T-2 advised he had never seen any evidence of

the existence of any MIRR organization or leadership out -

side of the United States®

On August 10, 1965, MM T-3, a Cuban exile who 18

still a member of the MIRR, but inactive, furnished the

following information:

The MIRR has no leadership, no organization, and

no representation inside Cuba. DI. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA is .

the sole Chief.

The leadership and direction stems from a

small group headed by BOSCH in Miami.

MM T-3 said the MIRR réceives no funds and no

direction from Cuba or any other foreign country:

The

members are responsible only to BOSCH and the other.

officers, all of whom live in Miami.

- 4 *

NH 54027 DooId:32297175 Page 8

---

