# docid-32286469

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 05C 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10195-10245

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

HQ

92-3171-2139

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/04/1968

4

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/15/1998

INDEFINITE

v9 1

DocId: 32286469

Page 1

40

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19925(44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: Í1-14-2017

MARCIES

DOCTOL

"NO TIELD O

AI TENMIENTION CONTAL

ADTIGED BY

notate

SUIP (S) 0)

AIRTELHEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

14156-4-94 BY SPE mAC/Se

4-4-68AIE.

6201

JFIC

CLNSSIFIED EY/2S9J0

TO:

DIRECTOR,

FBI

(92-3171)

FREPT FROM DOC, CATC

112

101994

DATES OF DECAN SEE CA

* INDBFINITE

11-6-78

FROM: ML

EGAT, MEXICO (92-13) (P)

*S

iLLATION

AN

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, aka

AND FIRED ORNC

T0N5310

Remylet 3-18-68

ADVISED BY ROU

SLIP (5) 07.

DATE

The following information was

received 4-3-68 on

a

confidential basis from JORGE VAZQUEZ ROBLES, Chief of

Inspection, Mexican Immigration Department.

This is based

on an investigation conducted by inspectors from his office

concerning Súbject and his activities in Cuernavaca, Morelos,

Mexico

It was confirmed that the Subject had come to Mexico

on

various occasions and resided in the house at Nubes No.

2,

Colonia Rancho Tetela, Cuernavaca.

This house is in the name

of a company called Nubes, S.A.

The person handling the sale

of this house to Nubes, S.A. was RUTH DORENBERG-PENNI VICH, a*

real estate broker residing at Virginia Fabregas No. 108,

Cuernavaca.

She is a Mexican citizen with Mexican passport

No. 58354,

issued 8-17-65.

She handled

the sale of this hous

and also continues to be concerned with

the administration of

the property.

She also sold insuranc

for a car and a garden

tractor in the name of this company

A

N CONTAINED

SIZIED

AT.I INFORMAT

USPENT

:02:0

O1H

She was not cooperative,

but did turnish the informa-

tion that one of Subject's associates is a Mr. SCALZETTI,.

also a Mrs. CANTAMAYA or CANTAMAYALA.

Her real name is bellevea

to be CANTA DE GIMBEL, residen

e Galeana No. 603, telephone

2-36-00, Cuernavaca, Mexico 9 M

8

Bureau t

(1 - Liaison Section)

-Chicago,

92-349

REC-20

72-3777

2124

(2 - Miami

1 -

Moxico Cityd

184 APR 10 1968

ENTI

RSC : wr

(9)

c cr Bishop

466M5

9/20%

Claneilled by

CATE

violassio

UNT TOON TACOM

QUIET ANY SATONGOV

3/21/841

DocId: 32286469

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hotej?

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

Subject also reportedly was associated

with the former

owner of Nubes No. 2, a Mr. ALBERT ANDREAS

Investigators also contacted Mr. and Mrs.

BRUCE

VICKERS, who reside in the vicinity of Nubes No. 2, and are

considered the administrators of property in the Rancho

Tetela sub-division.

They claimed

of persons residing at Nubes No. 2.

it to know the identity

telephone

telephone 2-44-39, Cuernavaca, was contacted, and advised that

the only relation

he had with the Subject, whom he knew as

SCALZETTI, was at the Club de Golf in Cuernavaca.

He advised

that Subject sold him his golf cart at this club many months

ago.

Neither he nor the administration of the

golf club had

seen Subject at the golf club for many months.

4

It was determined that the house next to the VICKERS i

house is owned by a Mr. ADAM KULLAKOUSK. and his son, LeON,

from Chicago, Illinois.

This house is presentlv. for sale.

Reportedly, Subject used to visit this house.

It was also determined that the telephone at Nubes No. 2

is 2-64-87.

The only

location are servants.

persons currently in residence at this

It is noted that Subject's attorney, JORGE CASTILLO Z.,

has petitioned the Mexican Government to review their decision

not to grant Subject immigrant status in Mexico.

He denies

that Subject has any relation with the underworld and claims

that, although he formerly was a part-owner of gambling casinos,

he has been

retired since 1950.

He claimed that since that time

Subject has

been persecuted by

the FBl, and contended that

Subiect could not be a criminal because he has been residing

in the United States and has not been arrested by the FBI for

any crimes.

He claimed that Subject had not returned to Mexico

since he was requested to leave in Octuber us 19661

- 2 -

DocId: 32286469 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collectión Act 01 1992 TiT iSt 2107 Tote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

Apparently, based on the inquiries being made in

Cuernavaca, CASTILLO

contacted inspectors of Mexican Immigra-

tion to inquire the basis for these inquiries. He was asked

Subject's whreabouts, and claimed he did not know. He at

first indicated that he believed Subject was traveling at

unknown localities in Europe,

but subsequently hinted that

Subject was in Miami, Florida

It is noted that most Mexico City - Miami flights

go through Mexican Customs and Immigration Inspection at

Merida, Yucatan, Mexico, and that information previously

reported indicated that

Subject had been seen in Merida.

Sources have indicated that Merida is notorious for the

corruptin in its Immigrition and Custume inspectione Re

CHICAGO DIVISION

At Chicago, Illinois

1.

Will attempt to identify ADAM and LEON

KULIAKOUSKI

(may be phonetic), reported associates of subject

in Cuernavaca, Mexico 194

Will reconsider contacting ALBERT ANDREAS,

apparently sold Subject his home, and reportedly was an

associate of the Subject.U

MIAMI DIVISION

At Miami, Florida

attempt to

MEXICO CITY

At Mexico, D.F. and Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico |X4

Will attempt to determine if

long-distance

telephone calls can be checked for Subject's residence A u

- 3 -

DocId: 32286469 Page 4

---

