# docid-32304338

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10285-10350

HQ

CR 92-6394-9

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45901 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

KIRK, GEORGE M. JR.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/18/1963

4

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

19.1

HH 45901

DocId: 32304338

Page 1

---

## Page 2

92-1217

GMK: der

1

LLOYD BELL, Undersheriff, Clark County

advised on Marchi14,

1960,

department

at the El Rancho Vegas Hotel, Las Vegas,

Nevada, on charges of vagrancy.

OTASH indicated he

operates a private detective agency known as the Fred

LOS

Otash Detective Agency, 1342 North Laurel Avenue 7-1888.

Angeles, California,

telephones 0L 6-4477 and HO

OTASH stated he was in Las Vegas, Nevada

for the purpose of setting up an agreement of some type

to collect gambling debts owed to the gambling clubs and

hotels, especially by individuals in California.

OTASH

would

investigate the assets of the individuals

owing

these gambling debts which information would be turned

over

to a group of attorneys for collection. OTASH indicated

he had discussed this plan with PHIL LONG of the Tropicana

Hotel; JOHNNY DUNN and BELDON KATLEMAN, both El Rancho

Vegas

Hotel and

WILBUR CLARK, Desert

¢ Inn Hotel: In Las

Vegas, Nevada®

OTASH advised that about three months ago

WILBUR CLARK, Las Vegas, Nevada loaned him $5,000 and

he obtained this money through ELI BOYER, Accountant

for the Desert Inn.

OTASH

was dropped as a criminal Informant

pursuant to Bureau instructions in Bureau letter of

November 20, 1961,

in connection with his use of the

FBI's name In publicizing his United Nations Publications,

Inc., Directory of Private Investigators and Attorneys

(SAC

letter 61-72 (A).

I

COVER PAGE

HH 45901

DocId: 32304338

Page 2

---

