# docid-32272374

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/31/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10144-10087

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 29-46-30

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/09/1978

2

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53080 Date:

06-05-2017

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

CIA, FILES

NOTES

Unclassified

1A; 1B

Redact

01/01/2003

Box 22

HH 53080 DocId: 32272374

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Keley of

11111388

SEC

435-173-A

12/12/43 Cover Memo, Robut I Rampiell, COS, Pares to

Chief, ski Chef, WE frusading Incloud mems as

followe:

11/25/63 Memo, Homas B. Casasia to Halter P Maltagar;-

CL: LHO

1. REDWOOD had at one time an OT In Oswald.

As chef of the b Brased it had discussed

-sometime i Summe 1960... With the ten Chif

6. Rep. lief of the L tenaced Section the layag

suitable channels. At the moment, d dost

recall whether the was discussed while D?

his panely were en route to ou crestry

or if it was after there arial

(cont. on next page)

- 3111197

SECRET

HH 53080

DocId: 32272374

Page

---

## Page 3

2/9/78

betey lily

4355173- A (conti

11111389

2. Rimember o's shavior in USS stuck me from moment

I sad read Is DDACIA dipated on him, is told my

subordinated something amounting to, 'Dost pled to chald

to get the info ur med, brause the individual looks odd

Interested in II O night proude ta Mensk factory, entoin

sections of ety telf i of course the unal BI that might deep

develop target personality dosses:

3. 2 whe phasay into sToveR cover acugnment, i out of

KuBOVE, at the time. Mus, & nold have wept ol calate

shortty afte Os arwal. Don't know what action descloped

kunafter

Addenden

4. Has becoming incrasingly interested in watching developing

pattern witnessed in b; the t of sor. women many ing porеgкиs..

bring permitted to cave USe, thes duoreng; settling abroad

w/out returning choke. ALOCIAN 3 Case was among ISt 4f

these; also turned up@2doz.stmilar cases Wistallshed licks

chet. ste of Hese womes i KGB. KIDESk became interested

in the developing trend. Padly out of carsity if 's wife weld

amp dis to or country; patty ost of ented in s

_experiness in USSR. that we showed pinkiest in the Hawey stry

T.B. C.

3111198

SECRET

HH 53080

DocId: 32272374 Page 3

---

