# docid-32346813

## Page 1

Date:

• 03/25/02

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10063-10261

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : FBI, GA., ATLANTA

TO : FBI, HEADQUARTERS

TITLE : COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP

CONFERENCES.

DATE :

06/19/67

PAGES :

2

SUBJECTS : KING, M.L.

SCLC

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/14/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : JFK10: F6 1993.07.14.07:04:17:030140: PAGE 1 AND 24; PER

10/97, NOT ASSASSINATION RELATED - DIF

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 50529

DocId: 32346813 • Page

1

---

## Page 2

| HH 50529

UNITED STATES DEFARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

DBC 4365

Copy 1o:

SECRET

1 - G-2,

Third Arny, It. McPherson, Ga. (Ril)

- OSI,

Robins Air Force Base, Ga.

(RAI)

I - NIS, Charleston, South Carolina Ci)

Report of:

Dale:

Field Office File 8:

SA ALAN G. SENTINELLA

May 19, 1967

100-5718

Ofice: Atlanta, Georgia

Burcou File 2:

100-438794

Title:

COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF

SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONTERENCE

Character:

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Synopsis:

National headquarters

Southern Christian Leadership

Conference (SCLC) continue to be located at 334 Auburn Avenue,

N. E., Atlanta, Ga.

Offices also maintained in Grenada, Miss.,

Louisville, Ky., New York City, New York, and Selna, Ala.

Reverend MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., continues to serve as President

O€ SCLC.

Identity of officers, executive board nembers, executiv

staif, and field organizers set forth. Recent changes in

personnel and organizational structure set forth. CAROL HOOVER,

who has former Connunist Party. (CP) affiliation, recently added

to SCLC executive staff as fund-raising officer

' ana will be

responsible for arrangements re forthcoming SCLC annual

convention.

Financial status and principal sources of SCLC

income set

forth.

STANLEY LEVISON and HARRY YACHTEL, Who have

prior CP background, active in SCLC financial marters. Reverend

KING continues to seek and rely upon advice of LEVISON. LEVISON,

RANDOLPH I. BLACKWELL,

ALFRED DUCKETT, CHARLES HAYES, CAROL

HOOVER, CORDY I, VIVIAN. and HOSWA VULLIAMS attended' sCL

conterence March 1967 at wich changes in peasonnel and

organization structure discussed. BLACKTELL, DUCKETT, HAYE.

VIVIAN, and VILLIAMS have past CP hackeround and/or artiliation.

SCIC major projects and activities as well as position re

U.S. participation in Viet Nan Var set. forth.

-p=

SECRET

GROUD I

Excluded

from Automatic

Downgrading and Declassification

10335

100-300-0181

This document contains seither recommendations nor conciusions of the FBI. lt 1s the property elite Fai and is loaned to

your ageney; It and lis cortants are not lo be distributed outside your sgency.

DocId: 32346813 Page 2

---

## Page 3

• AT 100-5718

During the above conference, a discussion

ensued as to whether. SCLC should institute a policy

of charging admission to Reverend KING's speeches.

Reverend KING declared it had always been his feeling

that the public should hear him free of charge. LEVISON

objected to Reverend KING's thought in this

regard and

said in his opinion the civil rights movement as a

whole had reached a point where the public should expect

to pay in order to hear Reverend KING speak. A decision

was not reached concerning this matter.

(AT T-T, 11/66)

Also during the aforementioned conference,

a discussion took place regarding SCLC approaching

• leading officials of labor organizations for financial

contributions.

STANLEY LEVISON reierred to a meeting

recently held between Reverend KING and JAMES HOFFA,

President of the Teamsters Union. He pointed out this

had been an excellent meeting and very "fruitful" (not

explained) • LEVISON suggested SCLC consider utilizing

HOFFA's cooperation and selling individual memberships

in SCLC to influential Negro

and white persons within the

sphere of HOFFA's influence including people both in and

out of organized labor.

He contended that HOFFA knows

many such people who would be only too happy to become

affiliated with SCLC through an honorary-type

membership

and periodically assist SCLC financially.

LEVISON went on to suggest that the sale

of memberships through the assistance of HOFFA not be

limited to professional people but include the so-called

working class. He made effort to differentiate between

professional groups and the working class

by pointing

out that it will be the working class, not the professional

people, who will ultimately look to SCLC for assistance

in seeking "social change"

' (not defined) .

Thereafter,

LEVISON said SCLC could use this and its working class

memberships as a practical lever when seeking "social

change"

24

HH 50529 DocId:32346813 Page 3

---

