# docid-32292878

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10210-10154

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-326

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE : 09/20/1961

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LST, MISUR, RES, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: • 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

- 10/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC A/T

N9.1

DocId: 32292878

23

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

9-20-61

Airtel

To:

SAC, Tampa (66-231)

From: Directos, FBI (92-2781) - 326

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

ANTI-RACKETEERING

•'r'

20097 1271.

JUNE

2/8/95

Cassie

Declassing

EK)

Reurairtel 9-20-61, captioned as above.

The RE activation of Automatic Electric Company produced

telephone instruments has not been favorable in the past.

However,

if you will furnish the Bureau with a model instrument identical to

that used in subject'e residence, experiments will be conducted to

determine if the particular model instrument can be energized.

It is suggested that you consider using the singlespair Cu

microphone-telephone technique for this coverage of thecsubject.

tsue this technique, you should furnish the

Bureau, attention fBl Laboratory, an instrument identical with

subject's so that the appropriate modifications can be entected and

the modified instrument returned to you for substitution of subject's

telephone equipment. You should allow at least two weeks for

SEP2 6 1961

transit and modification of the telephone instrument.

Page 181 of

the Handbook of Technical Equipment sets forth the details the

Laboratory must know in order to prepare the substitute instrument.

BECtASStrIED ay 5668-54D ruck

9/2/48

1. = Mr. Evans

(SP)

Tolson

Belmont

TEOMELON MARION

Mohr

+ 81

ЧЕСТО - ЕПОДІДЕ

Callahan _

CKC:pcc (7)

Conrad

DeL.oach'.

IF 5R ply

ZEb Se

a 2s UN el

ZEB SO

Evans

Malone

Rosen

'Sullivan

Tavel

WECE AED

VECEINED -COWSYD

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

MAIL. ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

F OCT 11

DocId: 32292878

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

DATE s6i7ev14279481p

FBI

11 22-

ATT. TE

Date:

9/20/61

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via .

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

SS TRI

TOM COUTALI

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM:

SAC; TAMPA (66-231)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

ANTIRACKETEERING

TAMPA

OECLASSIFIED BY St68-34D/mds

ON

192/98

ReTPairtel 6/2/61.

(JFK)

JU NE

3/3/25

Clessifies

Drologe

SPSmACTICL

Referenced airtel reports the results of a survey

conducted to determine the possibility of installation of

misur coverage in the home of the subject.

to conduct another survey to determine whether the RFMT

The Tampa Offlce at this time requests author 4y

technique can be used to effect coverage of the subject's home.

In connection with this survey, the Electronics

Section of the FBI Laboratory is requested to furnish the

Tampa Division with any information available to them which

would indicate types of telephones manufactured by the

Automatic Electric Company, Northlake,

Illinois, which are

compatible with the use of the RFT.(It is noted that the CU

Tampa Division at Tampa has tefephone service furnished by

General Telephone Company of Florida. This company uses

telephones manufactured by Automatic Electric.

Should the above-requested information not be

available to the FBI Laboratory, it is requested that con-

sideration be given to furnishing the Tampa office wIth armSCu

equipment in order that tests might be conducted to secure

this information.

4/ Bureau (1 - Electronics Section)

1 Tampa

EMP -KH

(5)

92-2781-326

10-0

0S SERE

5 1961

Approved:

& D = Wick

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32292878 Page 3

---

