# docid-32295301

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10215-10077

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2713-452

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/27/1967

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

CM, ASSOC, RELATIVES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/11/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32295301

Page 1

8

---

## Page 2

-Released under the John F." Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36

(Rev.

5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

• AIRTEL

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

7/27/67

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (92-36)

CARLOS MARCELLO, aka

AR

NO 1457-C-TE advised that CARLOS MARCELLO'S Wifé

JACKIE recently imposed an 8:00 p.m. curfew on CARLOS

MARCELLO when he is in New Orleans.

JACKIE MARCELLO has

become highly incensed over CARLOS MARCELLO's long time

affair with LUCILLE, the beautician.

JACKIE MARCELLO has

never before become

upset with any of MARCELLO's other female

companions but his association with

LUCILLE has really upset

JACKIE MARCELLO.

Approximately two and one-half weeks ago, the

ath several of ner atro sound

guests.

several moments later ordered all the girls into the house

but barred the door to CARLOS MARCELLO.

CARLOS MARCELLO became enraged and obtained a

sledgehammer from the garage with the intention of breaking

down the door.

JACKIE MARCELLO took a shotgun and pointed

it out a second story window and ordered CARLOS off the

property. JACKIE told CARLOS to come back the next day or

whenever he felt he could stick to the curfew.

Since that

incident, CARLOS has been sticking to the curfew and when in

New. Orleans, is only out after 8:00 p.m. when accompanied

by his wife.

Bureau

(RM)

92-27131

REC 8

2

- New Orleans

PJC: sam

(5)

ST-100

18.101. 22 1967

Approved:

386

Sent

Per

Specia

jent in Charge

DocId: 32295301 Page 2

---

