# docid-32989593

## Page 1

File #:

62-116395

Serial Scope:

1620

1622 THRe 157NR 1622

1627 THRe 1628

16631

1634

1637,1638

1647

1STNR 1651, 205 NR1651

HH 55175

DocId:32989593 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CON

Assor. Dir.

scp.-A.D.-1i232.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -

Ext. Afiairs

Fin. & Pers.-

Can. 101....

Inspore

It tri.

рідені

Pian d 02

Rec. Ment.

sure. inv.

Trainina -

LA 961

i.?::

1B 015 LÀ CODE

Git 63APM NI TEL

5-25-76 MAH

SenAtE

Sleet En

TO DIRECTOR (157-140977042

Intelligene

SAN DIEGO

FROM LOS ANGELES (157-4075)

5/20/36

DECLASSTIED BY SPZALM, By

0171-26-0

TAYLOR; ET AL, EM - BPP (CF)

MDR-16

RE LA TELCALS TO BUREAU AND SD MAY 25, 1976.

SUBPOEN$S DUCES TECUM RECEIVED TODAY RE TRIAL OF CAPIIONED

SUS jECT AND DIRECTED IO CUSTODIAN OF RECORDS, FBIS LAS AND

CUSTODIAN OF RECORDS, FBI, SD: LA SUBPOENA GALLS FOR PRODUCTION

OF 25 SPECIFICALLY IDENTIFIED DOCUMENTS. COPIES OF ABOVE

SUBPOENA HAVE BEEN FORWARDED BY FACS TO BUREAU AND SD•

LA HAS IDENTIFIED 21 OF 25 LISTED DOCUMENIS, ALL OF WICH

ARE CONTAINED IN BLACK PANTHER PARTY GPPS COINTELIRO FILE.

NONE OF COMMUNICATIONS ARE LOCATED IN HAROLD TAYLOR SUBJECT FILE.

REVIEW OF THESE COMMUNICATIONS DETERMINÉD THAT THEY ARE OF AN

GENERAL NATURE PERTAINING TO DISRUPTIVE TACTICS AGAINST THE BPF

AND NO NE MENTIONED SUBJECI • THOSE COMMUNICATIONS NOT LOCATED

ARE IDENIIFIED AS LA LETTER NO BUREAU SEPTEMBER 25, 1968, LA

LETTER TO BUREAU MARGH 17, 1969 (THIS COMMUNICATION IDENTIFIED

TWICE ON LIST; ONLY ONE COPY LOCATED' LA

NETITE TO BUREAU MAY

NOT RECORDED,

21

To 3am

7, " N 2) 1976 .

JUi

15 1976

M 320 UN 2019764

ORIGINAL

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO LA 157-4075

repays a declassify 5129176-259

26, 1979 RISTED IWICE AND ONE COPY LOCATED), LA LETTER TO

BUREAU NOVEMBER 3, 197D.

- : IT IS NOTED COMMUNICATION IDENTIFIED IN SUBPOENA AS LA

LETTER IO BUREAU SEPTEMBER 29, 1969 WAS NOI LOCATED BUT IS PROBABLY

". IDENTICAL WITH BUREAU LETTER TO LA SAME DATE. COMMUNICATION

IDENTIFIED AS BUREAU LETTER TO LA DATED JUNE 25, 1970 HAS BEEN

DENTIFIED AS BUREAU AIRTEL SAME DATE •

AUSA DOMINICK RUBALCAVA, LA, ADVISED HE HAS UNSUCCESSFULLY

ATTEMPIED TO CONTACI DEPARIMENTAL ATTORNEY GORDON DAIGER,

WASHINGTON, D. CE, FOR OPINION RE PRODUCTION OF RECORDS. AUSA

RUBALCAVA STATES HE IS MAKING NO RECOMMENDATION AT INIS TIME

PENDING DISCUSSION WITH ATTORNEY DAIGER BUT FEELS COMMUNICATIONS

SUBPOENAED AI LA SHOULD NOT BE MADE AVAILABLE UNLESS WOULD

JEOPARDIZE ENTIRE TRIAL AT WHICH TIME THIS OPINION M4Y BE SUBJECT

TO RECONSIDERATION.

AUSA RUBALCAVE STATED DEFENSE COUNSEL IS UTILIZING

TESTIMONY OF ARLES JEFFERSON , ALLEGEDLY A FORMER STAFF MEMBER OF

THE SENATE SELECI COMMITTEE. JEFFERSON IS TESTIFYING CONCERNING

FBI ACIIONS NATIONWIDE UNDERTAKEN TO DISRUPT BPP ACTIVITIES • HE.

FURTHER STATED THAT THE COURT APPEARANCE PERTAINING TO PRODUCTION

OF THESE DOCUMENTS WOULD NOT BE SCHEDULED UNTIL APPROX. JUNE 1, 19760

HH 55175 DooId:32989593 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAGE THREE LA 157 - 4075

a teep declassify 5121176-8-970

AUSA RUBALCAVA WAS STRONGLY ADVISED IHAT THE LA DIVISION

DOES NOT FEEL THE CONTENTS OF THESE COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE

MADE AVAILABLE UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES•

BUREAU IS REQUESTED TO CONTACT DEPARIMENTAL ATIORNEY DAIGER

ALSO URGING SUBPOENAED DOCUMENTS AT LA AND SD NOT BE MADE

AVAILABLE.

LA MAINTAINING CONTACI WITH AUSA RUBALCAVA AND THE BUREAU

AND SD WILL BE EXPEDITIOUSLY ADVISED •

(CONSTANT

EsTraighte

By SA. P.

/ PETERSON, iC

5/46/760.

END

HH 55175 DocId: 32989593

Page 4

---

## Page 5

The Actorney General

2 - MT. J.

pilintz

(1 - Mr. P. V. Daly)

1 - Mr. T.

W. Leavitt

2 - MI.

S. F. Phillips

April 30, 1976

Director, FBI

1. - Mr. H. W. Porter

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACIIVITIES (SSC)

Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the

SSC is the original of a memorandum concerning FBI review

of an SSC draft report entitled "Warrantless Surreptitious

Entries by the Federal Bureau of Investigationg:

'Black

Bag' Break-ins and Microphone Installations."

A copy of the enclosed memorandum is furnished for

your records.

Enclosures (2)

62-116305

I - The Deputy Attorney General

Attention: Michacl E. Shaheen, Jr.

Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

HWP: cap/en,.

(10)

LEPROVED:

Assoc. Dir...

Dap. AD Adm.

sst. Dir.:

Admin-.

Comp. Syst

Ext. Affairs.

Can. Iiiv....

lúcit..

Rec. Mgmt.

Spec. Inv.

inselition: sE Training.

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adma-

Asst. Dir. his

Admin.

Comp. Syst..

Ext. Affairs -

Files & Com. _

Gen. Inv. _

Ident. -

Inspection -

Intell. 1

Laboratory

Legal Coun.'.."

Plan. & Eval. 1

Spec. Inv. -

Training.

Telephone Rm. fi

8114-64

ALL INFOSMATION CONTAILD

MDR-16

REC- 104

17 JUN &

1976

TO BE HAND DELIVERED BY OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL AFFAIRS

_ ROOM L.

TELETYPE UNIT [

:92989593

Page 5

-11647

---

## Page 6

1

2 - Mr. J

Mintz

V. Daly)

1 - Mr. T. W. Leavitt

1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

1 - Mr. H. W. Porter

62-116395

April 30, 1976

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COLLITTLE

TO STUDY GOVERN ENTAI. OPERATIONS

IJITH RESPECT TO INTELIIGENCE ACFIVITIES (SSC)

RE: FBI REVILW OF SSC DRAFT REPORT LATITLED

"TARRANITOSS SURREPTITIOUS ENTRIES BY

THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGANIONS:

"BLACK BAG' BREAR-INS AND MICROPHONE

INSTALLATIONS"

The following concerns a rcview by FBI Headquarters

(FBIHQ) representatives of the SSC draft report referenced

above:

On April 26, 1976, FBIHQ representatives and SSC

Icprosentatives John T. Illiff, Janes Dich, and Frcd Baron,

agreed that the folloving changes, corrections, and additions

vere to be made to the SSC draft report:

Appendix I cannot be cleared for publication since

it includes statistics which are classified "Secrct." Appen-

diz I 1i11 be deleted.

Appondix II lisis surroptitious entries for nicron

phone installations conducted by the FBI in crininal investi

gations.

Statistics included in this appendix arc listed for

the periods 1960 - 1968, and 1969 - 1975. Io be inserted

preceding the latter period and subsequent to 1968 will be

the statement: "the following entries werc conducted pursuant

to judicial variants issued under Title III of the Onnibus

Crina Control Act of 1968."

Page 22 contains a statement: "The Justice Depart-

ment and the FBI have not terminated the use of warrantless

Assoc. Dir. -

-surreptitious entry, either for electronic surveillance purposes

Dep. ADAm. -Or for other forms of search."

The word "either" and the last

Dep. AD inv. —

Asst. Dir.:

portion of the sentence rcading "or for other forms of search"

Admin.

-ill be deleted.

Added following this altered sentence will

Comp. Syst —be a new sentence: "Warrantless surreptitious entry for othor

Files & Com. -

forms of scarch is not presently being conductod, but, as

Gen. Inv. -

Indicated in the Justice Department statenent, has not been

Ident. -

-ruled out as a matter of policy in foreign intelligence casos."

Inspection -

Intell.

Laboratory -

Legal Coun. -

-AWr: cap Cui

Plan, & Eval. _

(9)

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

Spec. Inv. -

Telephone Rm._ ORIGINAI, AND ONE TO ATTORNEY GENERAT

-575-164%

Director See'y -

MAIL ROOM L

TELETYPE UNIT L

55175 DooId: 32989593

Page 6

---

## Page 7

RI: FRI REVIEW OF SSC DRAFT REPORT ENTITLED "WARRANTLESS

SURREPTITIOUS ENTRIES BY THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF

INVESTIGATIONS: 'BLACK BAG' BREAK-INS AND MICROPHONE

INSTALLATIONS"

the statement would be classified

will be used in place of "Soviet."

June 19, 1966 aga 2, Footnote #* eltos an FBI mamorandum dated

The correct date is July 19, 1966. Appropriate

correction will be made.

The correct date is

be

1

- The

_ made Attorney General

NOTE:

H. W. Porter III.

APPROVED:

Dep. AD Adm.

MM Dep. AD Inve

Asst. Dir.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs.

Cen. Inv..

kent...

Laboratory... w

HH 55175

DocId: 32989593 Page

7

---

## Page 8

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

SSC

Addressee:

ULTR

4/30/76

• Memo

• Report dated

FBI REVIEW OF SSC DRAFT REPORT EN-

TITLED "WARRANTLESS SURREPTITIOUS ENTRIES BY THE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIONS: 'BLACK BAG"

BREAK-INS AND MICROPHONE INSTALLATIONS"

FBI

Delivered by:

+ Do: 5/4/76

Received by:

& Colande

Return this receipt to the Intelligence Division, FBI

\ wW 55175

DocId: 32989593 Page

Pare €

---

## Page 9

NOTY

'SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

BEFORE COMPLETING.

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

TO:

Intelligence Community Staff

ATTN: Central Index

FROM:

FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1. HOW PROVIDED (check

appropriate

term.

If a document was made available

for review

but not transmitted,

so note.)

DOCUMENT

BRIEFING

INTERVIEW

TESTIMONY

OTHER

2. DATE PROVIDED

4/30/76

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

4.

SSC

HSC

IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive

data for documents;

give name or

identification number of briefer,

interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandum

5. IN RESPoNs orbal st date at item mber deto, suppress formal

request,

Not applicable

the appropriate key words from the list

U

provided separately; if key words not listed are

Not applicable

8. SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this item)

FBI review of SSC draft report entitled "Warrantless

Surreptitious Entries by the Federal Bureau of Investigations:

'Black Bag' Break-ins and Microphone Installations."

62-116395

SJM: 1hb

(3)

TREAT AS YELLOW

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

379| (6-75)

NH 55175 DocId: 32989593 Page 9|

---

## Page 10

INSTRUCTIONS

• Type or print clearly in ink.

• Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

"FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the

information.

• If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to

HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a

copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing

substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate.

Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be

noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,

e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether

interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript

is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional

pages may be attached if necessary.

*HH 55175 DocId: 32989593

---

## Page 11

SETTE

4-312 (Rev. 12-11-73)

Date of Mail _ 4/30/76

Has been removed and placed in the Special File Room of Records Section.

See File 66-2554-7530 for authority.

ÄLI INTORNATION CONTAINIO

miDR-16

Subject

JUNE MAIL - UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

Removed By 6 JUN 1 1 1976'

File Number

62-116395-1638

Permanent Serial Charge Out

FBI/DOJ

NW 55175 DocId:32989593 Page 11

---

## Page 12

May 37, 1976

AIEMORANDUM FOR MR. CALLAHAN

ME. ADAMS

RE:

SURREPTITIOUS ENTRY INVESTIGATION

On May 27, 1976, Assistani Attorney General Stanley Pottinger,

Cwil Fights Division, called me. He made the following points.

1.

He assed me about our identification of the 15 Agents who are

to work on the project. I told him I thought we could have the

list by at least next Weinesday and if earlier, we would cer-

tainly provide it. Mir. Pottinger said he wanted to interview

the people and,as was related in his conference with us,

narrow it down to 12.

CONTAINED

UNCEASSIFIED

BY.

DR-16

Đep..

MATT

Adm..

Ext. Atmir

Fin. & Fer

Ident..

Inspectiond?

Intell.

He said he had been deliberating on our question as to whether

or not it was wise to use Eureau Agents in this project for

investigative purposes. We both agreed that it would be well

that we do use Bureau Agents. He said, however, that this

might be a subject for inter deliberation in the event we change

our mindo.

At the time of our conference, we discussed the need to have

one of the group of Agents designated as the lead Agent or

supervisor over the entire squad. According to Mr. Pottinger,

this was still undetided in his camp. I told him, however, I

felt this was absolutely necessary and could be a situation similar

to the one whercin Assistant Director Richard Ash is the leader

of the group investigating the U. S. Recording Company matter.

At this point Nir. Pottinger said Mr. Cardner had talked with

Mir. Dowd, who related a very satisfactory relationship existed

in his assignment.

Mr. Pottinger then addrossed the matter of whether or not it

was felt necessary to inform the Church Committee of the con-

templated investigation. He said this has rot as yet been decided.

FICA D. O.

BRTEREE-1042-116322-1637

SD0P/

Plan. & Eval. _

Rec. Mgnt. _

BY

Spec. Inv.—

2440

Training -

97 JUN 3 1976

Telephone Rm..

40199919 8 - 1978A12 ROOML

TELETYPE UNIT [

FBI/DOJ

1H

75175

DocIA: 32989503

pame

---

## Page 13

Memorandum for Messrg. Callahan and Adams

May 27, 1976

He has consulted with Mike Shaheen and probably will arrive

at an answer very soon. Il the need to so notily does emerge,

Mr. Pottinger said he would suggest that the Senate Select

Committee be the Congressional agency to be notified and that

two or three men be informed. One should be the Represontative

of the Majority, one of the Minority, and he is of the opinion now

that Senator Church probably should be informed. The notitica-

tion will be oral and they will be asked, if it is decided to notify

them, that they maintain all matters confidential.

5.

Vir. Pottinger said he has prepared a reactive press relcase

which is to be released only upon inquiries as to the activities

which have been brought to the inquiring reporters attention.

He read the release, and I found it to be satisfactory as it is

short and really says only that an investigation is being con-

ducted but that no further details can be given.

6.

He then commented about the matter of canvass of our Agents to

determine if any Agonts know of any curroptitious chiry which has

not been reported.

He said that it has been determined by them

that this decision is to be ours.

He said, however, that if it is

decided that such a canvass should be made, they in the Depart-

ment should be informed prior to the time of the canvass.

By

virtue of his comments, I had the distinct feeling that he felt

this was an undue and unnocessary enlargement of the scope of the

inquiries. He said he felt such enlargement would be stimulative

of contentions which might possibly distort the thrust of the in-

vestigation. I thercupon told him this was one meacure which

was contemplated by us initiated as a possibility by us, and we

had not made any accision at this point as yet. I did tell him,

nowever, that i felt that based on his comments, perhaps it

would be better not to conduct the canvass at this time. He then

told me that he wanted to emphasize that it was our decision to

make, but he îelt it incumbent upon him to givé us some idca

about possible ramifications.

I would like to discuss these matters with you at the earliest oppor

tunity.

very truly yourse

Clarence M. Kelley

HH 55175 DocId: 32989593 Page-18 -

Director

---

## Page 14

The Attorney General

Director, FBI

ON IN SENATE SE ACE VIMET (ESC)

3 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - Mr.

P. V. Daly)

(1 - Mr. R. C. Blunt)

1 - Mr. -T. W. Leavitt

May I0, 1976

1 - Mr. J. G. Deegan

2 - Mr. S.

F. Phillips

1 - Mr. V. R. Thornton

DOC

5.14.

4

Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the

SSC is the original of a memorandum relating to this Bureau'st

review of the SSC's draft report entitled "The FBI's Covert

Action Program to Destroy the Black Panther Party."

Also enclosed is a copy of the memorandum for

your records.

Enclosures (2)

62-116395

Deliverid

•6iack

Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

VRT: adn

(12)

APPROVEDI

Assoc. Dir...:

Dep. AD Adm

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs...

Gen. InVi...e.

T'ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIHD

DATE 1-22-

BYS/HAIR

Asst. Dir.:

Inspection.jumss

Intellira test

Red. Mgmts:11441199e318

Spee: InV4xx42e42912243952

Tralning+199997

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. _

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs _

Files & Com. _

Gen. Inv. _

dent.

Inspection

Intell. _

Laboratory _

Legal Coun. _

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv. -

Training

Telephone Rm. _

TO BE HAND-DELIVERED BY THE OFFICE OF

CONGRESSIONAL AFFAIRS

ENCLOSURE

REC- 104

47116308

11604

19

.. the since he

TELETYPE UNIT

GPO: 1975 0 - 594-120

55175 DocId: 32989593 Page 14

---

## Page 15

3 - Mr.

J. A. Mintz

- Mr. P. V. Daly)

- Mr. R. C. Blunt)

62-116395

May 10, 1976

I - Mr. V. R. Thornton

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSG)

• not for dissemi-

official proceedings

to your request and 2s

is himited to

be disclosed to unauthorized persor

prepared in response

Its use

Bureau reviewed the 2d at 97, testatives it's Covert

Action Program to Destroy the Black Panther Party."

purpose of the review was to recognize and bring to the

attention of the SSC Staff any information the FBI believes

to be classified or otherwise sensitive to the extent that it

should not be nade public, as well as the identities of any

FBI personnel below the rank of Section Chief, which, by pilor

agreement between the sse and Fil should not be included in

the report.

Commistee.

content may nut

approval of the FBI.

Set forth below are the instances noted where

deletions or changes are suggested.

These instances were

discussed with Mr. John Elliff and Mr. Arthur Jefferson of the

SSC Staff on April 30, 1976, by FBI representatives and

Messrs. Elliff and Jefferson agreed to make the indicated

changes.

is

your

and the

express

Paragraph four, page two concerns a COINTELPRO

This document

nation outside

your Committee

nel without the

activity which consisted of

sending an anonymous letter to a

Chicago street gang leader. In part, this paragraph reads

...For example, the FBI's efforts to

"intensify the dogree

nan

of animosity between the BPP and the Blackstone Rangers, a

Chicago street gang, included sending an anonymous letter to

the gang's leader falsely infoming him that the Chicago

Panthers had made arrangements to kill him.

This is an in-

Assoc. Dir. -

-correct statement because the word "kill" was not used in the

Dep. AD Adm. - Letter sent to the gang leader.

The letter sent to the gang

Asst. Dir.:

Ds. Dir i Leader stated "

*The brothers that run the fanthers blame you

Admin. -

- for blocking their thing and there's supposed to be a hit out

Comp. Syst — foz y0U...

Ext. Affairs —

The word "kill" should be replaced with the word

Files & Com. _ actually used, "hit,

Gen. Inv. -

Ident. -

Inspection -

Intell. -

VRT: adn

(11)

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

Laboratory -

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Inv. -

Training -

Telephone Rm. _

Director Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT O

55175

DooId:32989593

Page

15

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINI

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFTED

BY SPLALMA

DATE -220 MITRY

ORIGINAL AND ONE CC TO AG

116375=1631

ENCLOSURE,

---

## Page 16

-

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

A footnote on page 16 makes reference to a con-

fidential FBl interview with Inmate No. 20024, at the

November 12, 1969.

it identifies the

specific inmate who was interviewed con-

fidentially.

A footnote on page 19-23 lists memorandum from the

Chicago Field Office to FBI Headquarters, March 14, 1969. The

date of this memorandum should be March 24, 1969.

the last paragraph and a tootnote on page / contain

the name of SA Alan Stephens. In addition, SA Stephens

and the name of SA Roy Martin Mitchell appear in footnotes on

page 58.

Neither of these individuals was a Section Chief or

of higher rank; their names should, therefore, be deleted.

The last sentence at the top of page 58 which reads,

"The Bureau and GIU both maintained paid informants in the BP?,

shared informant information, and coordinated the planning ano

execution of raids against the Chicago BPP" is not factual.

This Bureau did not coordinate the planning and execution of

raids against the Chicago BPP, with the GIU. This sentence

should be changed to read "The Bureau and the Chicago Police

Department both maintained paid informants in the BPP, and the

Bureau provided informant information to the Chicago Police

Department, which was used by the Chicago Police Department

in raids on the BPP."

The last sentence on page 57 and continued on page 58

This is incorrect and

should be changed to

, "one and five times a week."

1 - The Attorney General

NOTE:

The SSC's draft report was reviewed as a coordinated

R. C. Blunt, Legal Counsel Division concerning the Chicago

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE 3

-2.

HH

55175

DocId: 32989593 Page 16

---

## Page 17

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Police Department raid on BPP headquarters, Chicago.

Thornton

and Blunt telephonically furnished the advice to Elliff and

Jefferson as indicated above.

In addition, Thornton mentioned to

Jefferson the fact page 43 and the first three paragraphs of

page 44 concerns a COINTELPRO activity which was directed at

the BPP "Breakfast for Children" Program.

This information

makes a specific reference to Father Frank Curran, San Diego,

California, who was permitting his church to be used as a serving

place for the BPP Breakfast Program. The Bureau sent an

anonymous letter to the Bishop of the San Diego Diocese in-

forming him of Father Curran's activity.

In addition, our

San Diego Field Office placed three telephone calls protesting

Father Curran's support of the BPP Program to the Auxilary

Bishop of the San Diego Diocese.

Following this,

Father Curran

was transferred to "somewhere in the state of New Mexico for

permanent assignment."

While this is not a matter relative to

classification there is a strong inference of privacy here

which was brought to Jefferson's attention. It was recommended

Father Curran's name be deleted from this report. Jefferson

advised this matter had been discussed with Father Curran by a

member of the SSC and his permission was obtained for utilizing

his name in this report; therefore, no change will be made by

SSC regarding this.

Simultaneously with the Bureau's review of this

draft, Stephen Blackhurst, Assistant Special Counsel for Intel-

ligence Coordination, Department of Justice, arranged to have

the Department review this draft in view of

pending litigation

in Chicago relating to the BPP.

Blackhurst advised SA Thornton

that he is in full agreement with the changes negotiated and

they included those which the Department would have desired.

On 5/4/76 Mr. Blackhurst furnished four additional

pages, to be included in the SSC's report which pages were

reviewed by SA Thornton and no changes were necessary.

APPROVED:

Assoc. Dir.....

Dep. AD Adm

Asst. Dir.:

Admin....

Comp. Syst...

Ext. Affairs.

Gen. Inv...

Inspection..

Intell Ta

Legal Coun

Plan. & Evall

Rec. Mgmt.

Spec. Inv..

Training-

- 3-

IH 55175 DocId: 32989593 Page 17

---

## Page 18

5-1 J (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

Ada essee:

DILTR

X L:HM

Caption of Document:

SENATE SELECI COMMITTEE

• Memo

I Report dated 5/10/76

U.S. Senate Select Committee (§SC)

(4/28 & 4/29/76 FBI review of

SSC's draft report on BPP)

FBI

Originating Office

Delivered by:

Riceived by:

_Date: 5/17/76

Title:

Mail Chiri

Return this receipt to the Intelligence Division, FBI

MH 55175

DoC1d:32989593

Pate 18

---

## Page 19

TO:

Intelligence Community Staff

ATTN: Central Index

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

FROM:

FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

TE:

SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

BEFORE COMPLETING.

2. DATE PROVIDED

5/10/76

X DOCUMENT

BRIEFING

INTERVIEW

TESTIMONY

OTHER

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

SSC

4. IDENTIFICATION

(provide descriptive data for documents; give name or identification number of briefer,

interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandum

5. I spots to list date or item, merlito, suppose to formal request, other-

Not applicable

7. Key "under fontero appropriate koy words from the list provided separatoly; if key words not listed are

Not applicable

8. SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this item)

FBI review of SSC draft report entitled "The FBI's Covert

Action Program to Destroy the Black Panther Party."

62-116395

SJM:1hb

(3)

TREAT AS YELLOW

5-8

379 | 66-751

NW 55175 DocId: 32989593 Page 19°

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

---

## Page 20

INSTRUCTIONS

• Type or print clearly in ink.

Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

"FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the

information.

If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to

HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a

copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing

substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate.

Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be

noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,

e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether

interviewee is current or former employee,

etc. If actual document or transcript

is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional

pages may be attached if necessary.

HH 55175

DocId: 32989593

Page 20

---

## Page 21

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. I. W. Leavitt pays?

FROM

S.

F. Phillip

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

1 - Mr.

J.

Adams

1 - Mr. T.

J. Jenkins

1 - Mr. D. W. Moore

(Attn: H. A. Boynton)

DATE:

RECTOR

5/27/76

- Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - Mr. P. V. Daly)

1 - Mr. T. W. Leavitt

1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Iny.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst

Ext. Affairs Yu

Files & Comf?

Gen. Inv..

Ident.

Inspection

Intelle:

lation te

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv.

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

PURPOSE: To advise of press inquiry made of writer re

FBI/Senate Select Committee (SSC).

DETAILS: At 4:15 p.m.,

5/26/76, writer received a telephone pe

call from an individual who identified himself as DavidiMartin

(phonetic) of the Associated Press, the ensuing conversation

being nearly verbatim as follows. MARTIN: I would like some

information about the files turned over to the Church Committee.

PHILLIPS: I don't discuss any business over the phone. Why are

you calling me? Where did you get my name? MARTIN: Aren!t you

in charge of FBI matters relating to the Church Committee?

PHILLIPS: I don't discuss any business over the phone. I

don't know who you are.

I suggest that if you have any inquiry

of the FBI you go through official channels which is to inquire

of our External Affairs Division. MARTIN: Well, if you can't

talk over the phone, would you be willing to meet with me?

PHILLIPS: No.. I again suggest you make your inquiry of the

External Affairs Division.

Immediately after the foregoing conversation, writer

advised H. A. Boynton, Deputy Assistant Director, External

AT.I, INFORMATION CONTAINTO

FIairs DIViSion, who indicated he would alert the appropriate

ersonnel in his Division.

Writer also determined from Barry

Ryan of the switchboard that the caller had asked for the

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIELAD

writer by name with no further comment and was thereupon

connected to the writer.

It will be recalled that in my memorandum to you

5/10/76 concerning an inquiry of the Bureau by Ron Ostrow of

a reference to the writer (but not by name) appeared in an SSC

report, the writer observed that it was not unlikely that the

report would serve as a springboard for media inquiry which

would reveal the writer's name as the Bureau Supervisor

Martin Luther King, Jr., investigation 1163255

the

62-116395

SFP :1hz|h°(8)

87 JHUNTINED - OVER

4

JUN7

1976

55175

DocId:32989593 Page 21

---

## Page 22

Memorandum to Mr. I. W. Leavitt

Re: Senstudy 75

62-116395

RECOMMENDATION: None. For information. Any further

similar inquiries made of the writer will prompt similar

responses.

APPROVED:

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm

un Dep. AD Inte

sst. Dir.:

tum. Serv.

me Ext. Affairs....

Fin, & Pers.

Gen. Inv...

ident.

spectior

Laboratory....

Legal Coun. 21

Pian. & Eval.

Rec. Mgmt.

Spec. Inv..

T: aining..

- 2 -

HH 55175

DocId: 32989593

Page 22

---

## Page 23

The Attorney General

Director, FBI

D. S. SENATE SELECT COLTINE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

1 - Mr. J.B. Adams

2 - Mr. Mintz

(1 - Mr. P.V. Daly)

I - Mr. Leavitay 17, 1976

1 - Mr. Deegan

1 - Mr. Phillips

1 - Mr. Thornton

VATI INFORMATION CONFUSED

EBREN IS UNCLASSI HEPPLAU

DaTh 1-23

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD InV. an

Asst. Dir.:

Admin......

Comp. Syst, wai

Ext. Affairs.

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv: 1.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Inv,

Training -

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm

55175

The April 22, 1976, Final Idition of the

"'San Francisco Examiner" contains an article on page 18,

captioned "Panthers slam ex-leader Cleaver," which

attributes several statements concerning Eldridge Cleaver,

imprisoned head of the Black Panther - Cleaver Faction

(BrE-CF), to BPP Chairperson Elaine Brown.

Among the statements attributed to Brown is the

following "...His wife, Kathleen, was recently flown to

Washington at government expense and allowed to browse

through highly classified FBI documents."

A review of the SSC's advance copy of "The FBI's

Covert Action Program to Destroy the Black Panther Party"'

indicates that on April 8, 1976, Kathleen Cleaver, in

executive testimony before the SSC, testified concerning

TBI activity as it concerned the Black anther Party.

It would appear that the above-mentioned article refers

to the presence of Irs. Cleaver in Washington, D. G.,

on April 8, 1976.

For your information, at no time has this Bureau,

UNHECORDED COPY FILED IN

at the Headquarters level, had contact with Irs. Cleaver

for any purpose.

It appears that there is a strong possi-

bility Mrs. Cleaver may have been shown FBI documents,

before the SSC.

before ties could sara been chari see, pica a rect 218

The above is being furnished for your informa-

tion;

VRI: tac/tdp (12) /

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

62-116395

"TO BE HAND-DELIVERED BY

I - The Deputy Attorney General

OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL

Attention.

kichael

AFFAIRS'

#. Shaheen, JI.

Special Counsel

jor Intelligence Coordination

TELETYPE UNIT 1574

TooId: 32989599

JOY

Page 23

---

## Page 24

The Attorney General

NOTE:

By routing slip of Deputy Associate Director James B.

Adams, we are instructed to direct a memorandum to the AG

regarding the above-mentioned article. This memorandum is

being submitted in accordance with this instruction.

APPROVED:

/ Ext. Affairs... Laboratoryomm

Assoc. Dir. Bite

Fin. & Pers...

Legal Coun

Plan, & Eval..

Nost..

Rec. Mgmt..

Asst. Dirs:

aspection

Spec. Inv..

intell. Theil-/EX Training

- 2-

HH 55175

DocId: 32989593

Page

24

---

## Page 25

(Mount Clipping in Space Bolow)

Panthers slam ex-leader Cleaver

Eldridge Cleaver's voluntary return from Paris to

the United States last year wasn't based on patriotic

leasons as much

as wanting "to get out of town."

preording to Black Panther Party Chairperson Slane

"We have evidence that Cleaver was engaged in

very shaky activities while in Paris,

" she said yesterday

in Oakland.

Refusing to elaborate on her accusations, Ms.

Brown said

only, "Cleaver's shaky activities were not

political. it was more like criminal .. it could have

something to do with drugs."

In a blistering attack on the former Panther

leader, who is in custody awaiting trial on charges

stemming from a 1962 Panther guntight with Oakland

police. Ms. Brown cailed Cleaver "the black communi-

ty's Patty Hearsl."

She said Cleaver was telling "lies about his formbr

comrades to improve his case."

Suecifically: Ms. Brown Charged that:

o Cleaver provided secret testimony to the Senate

Judiciary internal Sacurity Subcommittee last Febru-

18

ary "and be intends to provide more."

• His trife,

Kathleen, was recently

flown

to"

Washington at govertent expense and allowed 10

krowse through kignly classified ?BI documents.

• The Panther Party has a secret eyewitness who

heard Cleaver give orders from Algiers to execute a

party member in New Tork City in 1971. The "mystery

witness" will be named in a damage suit against the fBI

No be filed soon, Mis. Brown said

The new information about the 40-year-old ex-

consist author was disclosed, accoring to Ms. Brown,

"as a service to the community.

Dep.-A.D.-Adin.

Asst. Dir.:

edinin. -

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Afrairs

Gen. Inv. --

Ident. -

Inspection

'Intsl!.

Labor try

Legal Coan.

Plan. & Eval.

Rec. Mgmt.

Spec. Int.

Training

Telephone Rm.

Director See'?

(Indicate page, name ot

newspaper, city and state.)

S.F Exaniner

San Francisco, Ca.

Date: 4-22-76

Edition:Final

Author

Editorind Rub.: John E.

Title:

Eldridge Cleaver-Tug.

EM BPL ¿UFAC-Assa-

Characterult with

Intent

•or to Commit Murder

Classification: 88

Submitting Once S

88-12320

[I Being Investigated

let 79,16,

50 22

+62-1139-160281

ENCLOSURE

175

DocId: 32989593

Paue 25

---

## Page 26

OTE: SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

BEFORE COMPLETING.

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

Li

TO: Intelligence-Community Staff

ATTN: Central Index

FROM:

FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

If a document was made available

* DOCUMENT |

BRIEFING

INTERVIEW

TESTIMONY

J OTHER

2. DATE PROVIDED

5/6/76

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate

term; add specific names if appropriate)

ssc

HSC

4.

rovide descriptive

data for documents;

give name or identification number

of briefer,

interviewee,

Mamarandum and enclosures

5. IN RESPONSE TO (list date and item number if in response to

formal request, other-

wise state

verbal request of (name), initiative, subpoena, etc.)

SSC requests 4/15/76 and 4/29/76

6. CLASSIFICATION OF

INFORMATION (enter

U, C.,

S,

TS or

Codeword)

S

7. KEY

WORDS

ised underline

fothe apasopriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are

information handling

8.

suMmARY (see reverse side before completine this items

Materiala re Rolando Cubela; Mavindento Desocrate Christiano;

Alpha 66; Second National Front of Escambray; and names of

FBI Special Agents who handled Investigations of Cuban exile

- groups

62-116396

SJM: 1hb:

(3)

TREAT AS YELLOW

58

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

3791(6.75)

H# 55175

DocId:32989593

Page 26

---

## Page 27

- -01

INSTRUCTIONS

• Type or print clearly in ink.

• Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

• "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the

information.

• If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to

HSC) or changes to

a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a

copy of the original

abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. 'SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing

substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate.

Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted.

Commitments made to supply additional information should be!

noted:

Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,

e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether

interviewee is current or former employee,

etc. If actual document or transcript

is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional

pages may be attached if necessary.

.. 4.

•agen. i8. 50%

'=".

it din, te

-did: ++8+49147 +77279, Stat

HH 55175 DooId:32989593 Page 27

---

## Page 28

MARES Ta

DATE

LATESTORA STREE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEN

1 - Mr. Adams - Enclosure

1

- Mr. Leavitt - Enclosure

- Mr. Moore - Enclosure

- Mr. Malmfeldt - Enclosure

The Attorney General

lay 13, 1976

I - Mr. Schiappa - Enclosure

1 - Mr. Cregar - Enclosure

¡Director, FBI

- Mr. Mintz - Enclosure

2

- Mr. Daly - Enclosure

1 - Mr. Coulson - Enclosure

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT CONMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Enclosed herewith is a copy of an article that

appcared in the "New York Tines" on April 23, 1976.

The enclosed article "Panel Finds F.B.I. Used

Journalists As Its Informers," by John Il. Grewdson of the

"New Yort Times,

" stated that the FBI "maintained a network

of confidential

infornors inside major neus organizations,

universities and charitable foundations,"

The article

mentions sources familiar with the Cormittce's report on

donestic intelligence and describes associations vith un-

nared nerbers of the news media and their relationship with

the FBI.

Ir. Crewdson has indicated in conversation vith

ropresentatives of the FBI that he has obtained a list of

sembers of the news nedia who had worked'as: informants for

the FBI.

He advised that the identities of these individuals

were disclosed to the Church Committec but that the Attorney

General had prevented the Church Cormittec fron intervieving

these individuals and also prevented the disclosures of their

identities by the Church Cornittee.

The article further describes the Cormittee's

findings with regard to the investigation of the Reverend

DI. Martin Luther King, JI.

It would appear that information Furniched to the

Conmittee by the FBI haspbeen leaked to nenbers of the

nevs media.

This alsclosure is a breach of the agreement

NX13 3=11 12

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv, _

Asst. Dir.:

Admin, _

DOC: mcz

Emp. Suits — (14) Mcz

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. _

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spoc. Inv. —

Training

Legal Coun..

Telephone Rm. -

CHEN Tocia

MAIL ROOM |

92989593

TELETYPE UNIT O

Page 28

SEE NOTE PAGE 2.

-11

10

17 JUN 3 1976

SEESE

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 29

The Attorney General

reached with the Senate Select Conmittee, the Department of

Justice and the FBI.

I am bringing this to your attention for whatever

action you deem necessary.

Enclosure

1 - The Deputy Attorney General - Enc.

Attention: Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.

Special Counsel on

Intelligence Coordination

NOTE: John Crewdson, reporter,

New York Times, contacted a repre-

sentative of the External Affairs Division on April 20, 1976, to advise

that the New York Times had obtained information which was to be

disclosed in the forthcoming report of the SSC. He advised that the

New York Times planned to publish this information and desired to

inform the FBI of the information for response and guidaticady the

Bureau. This information dealt with the fact that Congressman John

Rooney had been advised regarding COINTEL operations; the installation

of "bugs" in the hotel room of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.; and names

of FBI informants in the news media. Crewdson had also obtained informa-

tion regarding FBI sources in educational institutions. from the Committee.

Above contained in Moore to Jenkins memorandum captioned,

"Information

Obtained byNew York Times ' from Senate Select Committee " dated

April 20, 1976.

APPROVED:

Assoc. Dir. Do

Dep. AD Adm.

Gen. Inv...

8. 1st or in. pail

Ident.

Asst. Dir.:

Inspection.

Admin...

Intell

Laboratory... At

Rec. Mgmt...

Spec. Inv...

Training.

- 2 -

NH 55175 DocId: 32989593 Page 29

---

## Page 30

PANEL PINDS FBI.

USED JOURNALISTS I

AS ITS INFORMERS:

Agency Is Aiso Said to Have

Had Network in Schools

and Charitable Funds

REPORT DUE NEXT WEEK

But the Document Will Not

• Reveal the Names of Any

of Sonfidential Sources

By JOHN M. CREWDSON

Special to The New York Times

WASHINCTOY, April 22=

The Federal Bureau of Investi-,

gation has mainleined a nei:

• work of confidentiai informersi

inside major nevs organiza-

tions, universities and chari-

table foundations, according to!,

documents and other evidence

obtained by

the Senate Select

Committee on Intelligence.

Sources familiar with

the

panel's report on domestic in-i

telligence

operations,

to

be!

made

public next week, said,

however, that none of the news!

reporlers or other confidential

sources would be named in the

350-page document.

The bureau's practice of lis-

ing journalists as sources of in-

formation

was continued

at;

least through the end of 1973,

the sources said, and may have!

extended beyond

that.

The

F.B.I. is understood to havel

expressed concern to the Sen-:

ate panel that, if any of thei

individua's were named in its

report, they would, "dry up"l

as providers of information.

lusive Information

It

was toward the end off

1973 that the Contral Intelli-

sence Agenck stopped using

incign correspondents of ma-

jor American news- gathering

organizations as part-time col-

lectors of inteiligence.

One of the sources said that!

while, in many instances, jour-?

nalists were simply recipientsi

08

exclusite information

vided

by

pro-j

bureau

agents

use in

news articles, in ster

instances it appeared that re!

porters haci

also provided the

bureau with unpublished infor-

mation

that they had picked;

up in the course of their jobs.!

It was nown previously that

the F.B.I. had a 'inass inedia

program". under which it sup-i

plied senstive and sometimes

personal information on public

figures to reporters isio werel

considered

"trustworthy.". But,

it was not known that reporters

Continued on Paçe 11, Column 8

The journalist sa

lat, upon

checking,

he discovered

that

the caller was not a member

of the Senate committee staff

but had been acting as "an in-

termisciary" for the committee,.

and that he, the journalist, had

reported the incident to the.

F.B.I., officials reportedly. cha-

racterized the journalists. in

question as "confidential sour

ces" when reguasting thet their

names be delered from the Ser

nate's report, ons source said,

there was no evidence that any

of them were on the burcau's

ipayroll.

A spokesman for the bureau

said that it would have no com-

ment on any

information ob-

tained by the intelligence com-

mitice before the release of the

domestic

intellizence

report,

which is scheduled for Monday.

The bureau's sources within

universities and foundations,

the source said, acted chiefly

as suppliers of information that

became

available

to

them

through their jobs, but in some

cases took active roles at the

bureau's request.

The source said that in one

instance a foundaton executive

had attempted

to deny grants

to organizations that the bure-

PANEL FINDS F.B.I.

USED JOURNALISTS

au considered unacceptable and

to obtain, at the bureau's be-

hest, the

dismissal of indivi-

duals employed by funded orga-

nizationis.

The Church committee's re-

Continued From Page 1, Col. 1

port is expected to -contain

evidence that bureau agents

were giving information to the

bugged at least 14 hotel rooms

burcau.

occupied by the Rev. Dr. Martin

Luther King Jr., principally to

The F.B.I. has uniformly re

get information about his per-

(sisted

the

disclosure

and

the

sonal activities and not because

Senata

committee

other

of

any suspected

investigative

bodies"

of

Communist

the

names of any of its informers;

influence within his civil rights

Criticism for Congress

The Church report, sources

said, will

also level criticism

lat members of Congressical

(panels

with responsibity

for

oversecing the F.B.I's activines

for keeping secret information

about some

the

burdens

more questionabie actions.

The sources pointed out, for

example,

that

F.B.I. officials,

including J. Edgar Hoover, the

bureau's former director,

had

kept the House Appropriations

subcommittee with aut

over the F.B.I. budge informed

dstail"

of its cointeipro

operations.

Cointelpro-for Counterinte:-

ligence Program-was a

broad

F.B.I. elf to confuse and disrube

a number of raical salrica.

organizations in this countr

chiefly through the dissemira-

tion ci anoninious iniormazio

and misinformation.

ire Dro-

gram was ended or sir. neeve.

in

1972.

One source said that infor

mation

in

the

Cicwach

COE?-

mittee's possessi shuwea

that

the Appropriacions subcommit-

tee, headed by the late Repre-

sentative John I. Rooney'rat

Brooklyn Democrat, inew

more

about the

workings of

cointeipro than did any of the.

Attorneys General under whom

Mr. Hoover served. exceDe fuE

William

Rogers,

who

best

that pos in 1961.

organization.

on the ground that such publici-

Although the F.B.i. cited sus-

ty might endanger their reputa-.

tions,

picions of

such

influence in

careers

or even their

seeking authorization from At-

lives.

torney General Robert F. Kens

One source said that the'

nedy to place wiretaps on tele-

bureau had declined to allow

phones used by the civil rights

the Senate panel's staif to in-.

leader,

no

such

authorization

terview the recorters in quas-

was required for the hotel room

tion, and that Attorney General •

Edisard H. Levi had supported.

DU?S.

The room listening devices

the bureau's position after a

picked up, among other things,

protest

from

Senator

Frank

evidence of Dr.

King's sexual

Church,

the Idano Democrat

activities, and the source said

who is the select committee's

that F.B.I. documents

in

chairman.

committee's possession

the

made

One of the journalists whose

nates were

provided to

it clear that

the derices

bad

the

¡been instailed for precisely that

Senate committee by the bure-

purpose.

au said in a telephone interview

ALL INFORMATION COLTADED

today that he had been called

by an individual purporting to

represent the Church panel

DATE 8 221

TATE SESAMA

with a request for an intervice

about his alleged F.B.I. affilia-

Mis-16

¡tion.

16375166274 Now york Trinid

ENCLOSURE

Friday, Auril 23, 19

HH 55175 Do0Id:32989593

Page 30

---

## Page 31

P.V. DALY

H5. Jenkins

clares

4/20/76

. D. W. Moore, It.

INPORNATION ODIAINED BY "NIN YORK SIMES"

FROM SEASE

SELICT COMITTLE

PUREOSE

this monorandum is being prepared to report infocation

furnishad to the External Affairs Division by John Crowdoon of the

"New Xorle rimos."

This information relatos to the torchcoing

Church Conmittec report.

SYNOPSIS

The "New York Ilmas" has obtained information purportedly

from the Chucch Conmittoe alleging that 1) House Appropriations.

Committee

Exom 1958 to 1966 was kept informed of the FBI's COLINEL

prograns dirocted

against the Communist Party and the

klox Klan;

2) that the "bugs" placed in motcis and hotols where Martin luthor

King was residing during his travels were for the purpose of deter-

mining informacion concerning his personal lite; 3) that the ret

had denied permission

Eor the Church Committee to intarvier or

discloso the names of FBI informanta who vore employed

in the nedia;

• 4) that the EBt mintains cources in educational institutions and

foudationg which assisted in furthering objectives of cite FBI: and

5) that the FBI was aware that the wife of Congressman lale Boggs

had hin viretapped by a private detective.

IRICO: UNDATION

That John Crewdson be advised that no comment can be

Jivon to him regarding infornation which the "New xork rinos" bas

obtainod fron the Churci Cornicioe and which is set forth in the

body of this memorandur.

1. - 115. Adans

Icavitt

Maintelat

J. • Mil.

Schiappa

Aab:asg

(б)

DATE

SRE ADDENDUM PAGE 4

62 114-375-1627

ENCLOSURE

HH 55175 DocId:32989593 Paye 31

---

## Page 32

'trainis

Moore to jenkins Memorandum

Re: Information Obtained by "New York Times"

DEFAILS

John Crevison, roporter, "new York lines," contacted

representative of this Division on 4/20/75 to advise that the

"New York times" haû obtained information which was to bo disclosed

in the forthcoming report of the Senate Select Committee (Churci

Coxmittos) • Crevdson advised that the

"New York times" was

planning to publich this information within the next several days

and desired to inform the FBI of the information that it had in

order that the fBi might either respond to this infornation or

provide the "New York rimes" with guidance in the event some of

the information was not accurate.

The following items were provided by Crewdson, all of

which reportedly come from the soon to be released church Com

mittee report.

:.

1) That auzing the perto& 1958 to 1908 Congressman John

Rooney of the ilouse Appropriations Cormittee was

continuously

informed in detail by the late Director Hoover and other officials

regarding COlviEt operations directed against the Communist Party

and the fu Klux Klan. Rooney, as well as othor mombers of the

Subcommittee, Knew nore about

the FBI's CuINTsI operations than

Attorneys Genera

2) That the 1d "bugs" that vere installed in the hotel

and motel rooms of DI. Martin Luthor king during his travels were

for the purpose of ohtaining information on his personal life and

were not installed to ascortain his degice of affiliation with the

Communisi Party.

3) Thai the Church Cormittoe was Furnished names of EPI

informants in. the news media. Thile the identity of these informants

was aisclosed to the Church Committee. the FBI through the Attornay

General prevented the Church Committoe fron interviewing those

individuals and also restricted the alsolosing of their identities

by the church Conmittoo.

-

CONTINUED OVER

WN 55175 DocId:32989590 Page 32

---

## Page 33

Moore to jonkins Honorandun

Re:

Information Obtained by "yew Xoxk Times"

Crowdson advised

i that the identitles of the individuals

referred to are as follors:

Pater Khisa, New York Times

Jerry D'Icary, Hashingion Star

Edward Montgomery, San Francisco Examiner

GEORGE

Putnam, Tos Angeles TV news announcer

theo Wilson, lew York Daily News

Fulton Levis, Jx.

Jimmy Mard, Jackson, Hissionippi, newsman

Shirley Uhi, OPI, Pittsbuegh

Ralpi McGill, Atlantic Constitution

Nane unknown a news director, Channel 7, Miani

4) The FEI maintained a notwork of sources in educationai

insticutions, as vall

as in nonprofit foundations.

Richard Larry

of the Melton Foundation In Pittsburgh was one of

these sources

did sevaral favors for the PBT by dismissing individuals in the

Foundation that the FBI dislikod and withheld funds thac the

Foundation vas providing to organizations that the FBI disliked.

5)

That tho wiretay which the late Congressmar

Male 80725

claimed to be installed on his telophone by the fat was actually

placed on his telephone by his wife

(n0w Congrossronan Lindy Boggs)

who belioved that boggs had a girlfriend in Alexandria.

This wire

tap vas placcô by a private detective and the details concerning

this matter cane to the ationtion of the

FBI.

the Church Comnittee repori is scheduled to be relcasad

somotine toward the end of April.

it is obvious that soncone to

has knowlodge of the contents of that roport is disclosing infor

mation to tha

"New Yoch Tines," Inasmuch as the report has not

been made public it would be most inappropriate for the Buroau to

CONNOIC On

the intomation obtained by the "row York times" or

authenticate the voracity of the

information set forth above.

on 3 am

MW. 55175 Darid:32989598 Pate 33

---

## Page 34

• ADDENDURe EXCEREAL

AFFAIRS

4/20/76

John Crowdson called late on the afternoon of 4/20/76

zo advise that the

"New York l'inos" has decided to proceed with

its story in 1ts 4/22/76 editions and, cherofore, his deadline

for a response from the FDI is 6:45 P.M. on 1/21/76.

In addition.

he advised that the information concerning Congrcsonan Boggs was

not obtained from the Senate Seleci Committee and was a separato

itom for which he denired a respunse fron the FBi.

The External

Affairs Division racommends that a "No Comment" should be furniched

concerning the information relating to the late Congressman loggs.

4 co

Kh 55175" DocId: 3298959} Page 31".

---

## Page 35

-4/21/76

ITEM NUMBER 1

According to crewdson, he has been advised by

the Senate Select Committee (SSC)/triting the period

195.8 to 1966 Congressman John. Rooney of the House Appropriations

Subcommittee was continuously informad in detail by the

Late Director Hoover and other officials regarding

CONTEL operations directed against the Conmunist Party

and the Ku Klux Klan. Rooney, as well as other members

of the Subconmittee, knew more about the FBI's COINTEL

operations clan Attorneys General.

Comment:

This statement Is basically true. We have

located and furnished to ine SSC, and the Depastment,

exceipts from late Director Hoover's "off-the-record"

testiony before the House Subconmittee on appropriations

which was chaired by Rooney. Additionally, Former Assistant

to the Director John lohr and curzent Associate Director

Nicholas P. Callahan recall testimony before the Subcommittee

relaking to our COINTELPROS against the Communist Party.

and the Klan, and this has been fumished to the SSC. The

use of the word "continuously" and the statement that

•Roone), as well as other members of the Subcommirtee, knew more

about the FBI COINTEL operations then Attorneys General is

a subjectiva conclusion.

He did furnish a number of

Attorneys General, as well as other officials of the

Executive Deparcment, considerable Information relating to

our COINTLi efforts against the Communist Paxty and the Klan.

ALI INTORMATION CONTAXI

AT 3 0 373/24m/p

MORN

62-14:554627

ENCLOSURE

- T 55175 DöcIt(32989599

---

## Page 36

4/21/76

ITCHI NUMBER 2

Crewdson's infornation is that the 14 "bugs" that

were installed in the hotel and motel rooms of Di. Martin

Luther King, Ji, during his travels were for the purpose of

obraining infornation on his personal life and were uct

Installed to ascertaln his degree of afsiliation with the

Communist Party.

Common't:

The foregoing represents an erroneous statement, one

not supporced by face.

The primary purpose for oux electzonie

surveillance on King, including "bugs" in hotel and motel rooms,

was to obtain information conceming King's communist associaces

and

associations.

Information concaming his personal life

was a natural by produce from some of these electzonic

surveillances.

The many documents which we fumished to the

Senate Select Conmittea concerning electronic surveillances

of King specifically indicate the purpose which was of a security

nature.

It should be noted

that in some of these documentss

recognition was made that the eleccronic surveillance in.

question might provide infonnation concering King's personal

(+2-116355-16627

END OGURE

AW 55175 DocId: 32989593 Rage 36

2

---

## Page 37

4/21/76

ICEM NUMBER 3

Crewdson has indicated the Church Committee

was furnished names of FBI informants in the news media.

While the identity of these informants was

disclosed to

che Church Committee, the FBI; through the

attorney General,

prevented the Church Conmittee Erom interviewing these

Individuals and also restricted the disclosing of their

identities by the SSC.

Crewdson identified 10 news media

sources that he had identified through the SSC as being

informants in the news media.

Comment:

This statement is basically true and it highlights

a severe and flagrant violation of an understanding between

the FBI/Department and the SSC. Crewdson is talking about

"recipient sources" which may be described as individuals

who effected COINIALPRO actions in our behalf. mong these

were the 10 news media sources Creweson has Identified

and which he clains the identicies of. wich were furnished

him by the SSC.

When SSC Staff Members were permitted to review •

our caw COINIELPRO files, they made notes of the identities

of "recipient sources" including those employad with the

media. When we delivered documents to the SSC, at its

request,

we excised the names of these "recipient sources."

Thereafter, the SSC protested and also had interviewed ac

least one of the "recipient sources," which the SSC claimed

they did inadvertently. With regard to the excision of the

names of "recipient sources" in documents being furnished

the SSC, this was in concert with the agreement adopted

by Chairman Church and Attorney General Levi.

• 3

# 11039-1627

1H 55175 DocId:32989593

Page 37

---

## Page 38

Subsequently, sporadie conversations and oral

requests were received to make "recipient sources" available

for interview by the SSC. In order to work out ground rules

regarding these interviews, several meetings were held with

the Comnittee and with Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., Special

Counsel. for Intelligence Coordination. : : The

• Attorney

Genexal expressed concern regarding the interview of

"reciplent sources," In fact, Attorney General Levi

met

with Chairman Church regarding this particular matter and

Senator Church agreed that there Hould be no interviews

without prior contact by the FBI with the source and the

agreement of the source to the interview. Subsequent to

this agreement, Church reneged.

Thereafter, a meeting was held in the office of

Shaheen on 10/23/76 with SSC and Departmant representativess

along with Mr. Adamsy M5. Daly, Me. Cregar, MI. Jarson and

Mix. Ryan of the Bureau.

Duxing the meeting a general

discussion was had to reach some accommodation as to the

means or the ground rules for interviewing "recipient sources."

Among the discussions was whether the FBi could contact

sources prior to his or her interview. At the conclusion of

the meeting, John Elliff was advised that the Bureau would

not acquiesce to the interview of "racipient sources"

without some statement Exom the Committee as to what use

they were going to make of the information that nay have

developed through this intewvier and whether they would

disclose the identity of the sources in its

reposts. This

position was supported by Shaheen. Subsequently, Messis, EllifE

and Ipstein both asked whethes the Bureau was agreeable to

the interviers of our "recipient sources" and were informed

by Mr. Daly that we were waiting for their decision as to

what use they were going to make of che information developed

during such an interview. Nothing further has been heard from the SSC on

this natter.

This matter has currently been discussed with

Paul Daly of Legal Counsel Division and he has agreed this

1s a breach of an oral agreement, which may possibly be

supported by written documents, by the SSC. It is believed

HH 55175 DocId: 32989593 Page 38

---

## Page 39

the leaking to Crewdson by the SSC of the identities

of 10 "recipient sources" in the news media area is a

major violation by the SSC of their understanding wich

boch the Deparinent and the FBI and should be protested

strongl3.

NN 55175 DocId:32989593 Page 39

---

## Page 40

4/21/78

ITEM NUMBER 4

Crewdson indicates he determined from the SSC that the

EBI maintaned a nework of sources in educational instliutions, as

well as in nonprofit foundations. Richard larry of the Mellon

Foundation, Pittsburgh, was identilied by Crewdson as one of the

sources tho did several favors for the BI by dismissing individuals

in the T'oundation that the FBI disliked and by withhoiding funds to

organizations that the rBI disitied.

Comment:

As indicated in item Number 3, this is an example of the

disclosure by the SSC of the identity of a "recipient source." The

Mellon Foundation, through Larry, did edect counterintelligence

action in our bebalf. This is a deliberate leak at FBI source inioi

mation by the SsC in violation of an existing agreement. The

identitication of Larry to Crevason represents a most flagsant

example oû a deliberate SSC etiort to brea's down the confidential

relationship which exists between a law enforcement organization

and its sourceß.

It is belteved this violation by the SSC of an existing

agreement with the FB1/ Department should be strongly protested.

1H 55175 DocId: 32989593 Page 40

42: 116395-1027

---

## Page 41

ITAN NUMDER 5

Crewison indicates the wirotap, which the late

Congressnan Hale Boggs claimed to have been installed on his

telephone by the FEI, was actually placed on Boggs' telephone

by his wife (now Congresswoman lindy boggs), who beiieved that

Boggs had a girifriend in Alexandria.

This viretap was

reportedly placed by private detectives, and the details

concerning this matter came to the attention of the FBI,

according to Crewdson.

COMMENT: Bufile 94-37804 contains voluminous .corespondence

concerning the allegation of the late Congressman Hale Boggs

that the FDI had tapped his telephone. This file contains

no information indicating the existence of

any wiretay being

placed on Boggs' telephone line, and contains

no information

Boggs' wife believed he had

a girlfriend. A review of other Bufiles containing references

to Hale Boggs disclosed no information thai rould support the

above allegation by Crewdson; however, in nider to make a

definite statement that bufiles contain no information

concerning the statement made by crewdson, a detailed file

review will have to be made.

1H 550001d:32989593

Pane 41

6214-395-1627

---

## Page 42

5/25/76

AIRTEL

TO

FROM

: DIRECTOR, FBI (100-341171)

(ATT: EXTERNAL AFFAIRS DIVISION)

: ADIC, NEW YORK (62-11243)

SUBJECT: MRS. ALICE WIDENER

INFORMATION CONCERNING

Mrs. ALICE WIDENER, 530 E. 72nd Street,

York, N.Y., 1s

the publisher of "U.S.A."

Magazine

and a syndicated columnist of in-

creasing prominence.

She has been a long

time friend of the fBI and, on numerous

occasions, has written articles favorable

to the Bureau.

Enclosed herewith is one copy of the April 15 -

, Which firs. WIDENER has devoted

the Bureau's intelligence gathering

responsibilities.

The NYO Press Office maintained a close liaison with

Mrs. WIDENER during her preparation of this informative analysis,

which reflects a continued supportive position on her part.

!

2. Bureau (Enel. 1)

I-New York (62-11243)

ADI: dej

(3)

ENCLOSURE

1a2111.591-

NOT RECORDED

46 JUN 5 1976

84 JUN 7 1976

HE 55175 DocIa:32989593 Page 42

tooth

---

## Page 43

U.S. A.

Vol. XIX

April 15 - May 15, 1976

No. 21

THE F.B.I.

THEY'RE DAMNED IF THEY DO,

WE'RE BOMBED IF THEY DON'T

by ALICE WIDENER

What are we Americans going to do: Sit back and let the FBI intelligence operations

be zapped into impotence by Senator Frank Church and his Select Committee on Intelligence

Activities? If we do, then sure as fate the radical revolutionaries and subversives in our

midst will zap us into inability to defend our internal security.

The New York Times declared editorially, May 8, we should adopt the legislative program

recommended by the Church Committee for the FBI to "shut down its political intelligence

operations."

If we do that, then we'll have holes in our heads, figuratively and literally.

The New York Times declares that the FBI should be permitted to conduct preventive intelli-

gence operations "only in case of a clear threat of foreign spying or terrorism."

Anyone with a grain of common sense knows that by the time there exists a "clear" threat of

terrorism by radical revolutionaries, it is too late to stop that terrorism. What The Times

and the entire left-liberal establishment define as a "clear" threat is action not advocacy.

That is the absolutist position taken by all leftist factions supporting the "abolition" campaign

to strip our nation of all its internal security intelligence gathering capabilities by the House

and Senate, by the CIA and FBI, and by the Navy, Army and Air Force.

The abolition campaign against the FBI was started by the Communist Party, USA hand-in-hand

with the American Civil Liberties Union the moment that J. Edgar Hoover became Director

in 1924. Roger N. Baldwin, having spent a year in jail during World War I for violation of

the draft law, founded the American Civil Liberties Union in 1920.. Baldwin was so radical

that even socialist Norman Thomas described him as an "intellectual anarchist." Nevertheless,

it is Roger Baldwin's definition of free speech in America under the First Amendment to our

Constitution that has come to prevail. His definition, as set down in 1920, is: "Expression of

opinion, as we define it, includes any language unac-

Publisher: Alice Widenes

US. A. is published beast S Publishing

Cork NY

companied by an overt act - that is, an act which in

itself is a violation of criminal law. ... For instance,

the advocacy of murder, unaccompanied by any act, is

within the legitimate scope of free speech."

Rales,

Slates

Single copy one dollar

Let us make no mistake about that interpretation of

free speech. The interprctation maintains that the oniy

ENCLOSURE

HH 55175

DocId: 32989593 Page 43

---

## Page 44

reginate intergence ravesugaiton is an livestigation arter the crime has been committed.

By such an interpretation, the FBI would not have the authority to investigate an Individual

who blatantly and openly ann

ces he or she is going to commit

rime --from kidnajing

y to assassination to violent ov

throw of our government.

In 1917, Roger Baldwin, a supporter of the Bolshevik Revolution in Russia, organized an imi-

tative "People's Council" in the United States and described his subversive technique in a

letter-to Louis Lochner.

"Do steer away from making it [the People's Council] look like a

Socialist enterprise," wrote Baldwin. "We want also to look like patriots in everything we

do. We want to get a lot of good flags, talk a good deal about the Constitution and what our

forefathers wanted to make of this country and to show that we are the fellows that really

stand for the

spirit of our institutions."

The technique of using our flag, Constitution and spirit of our founding institutions against us

for the purpose of destroying us has been used by Communists and by every radical leftist

organization in our nation without an iota of change for the last half century. Slowly, too,

Roger Baldwin's definition of free speech has become the virtual law of the land and was codi-

fied by the Warren Supreme Court which, during the period 1953-1969, struck down one after

another of our internal security laws in what are known as "the Communist cases."

It was this situation that faced J. Edgar Hoover in the twilight of his career during the violert

period 1965-1971 when our nation

was at war in Vietnam and was torn asunder internally by a

• racial civil rights struggle threatening to erupt into civil war.

Simultaneously, at this twi-

light time, every advanced nation in the free world, including our own, was struck by a so-

called "New Left" revolution instigated and directed at home and abroad by Old Left revolu-

tionaries such as John Abt and Herbert Aptheker of the Communist Party, USA, Ernest Mandel,

Secretary of the Trotskyite Fourth International, Professor Herbert Marcuse, and similar

radical Marxist leaders past middle age.

As a writer on politics and economics, I followed closely the Marxist publications in our

country announcing radical revolutionary meetings and attended many of them. Here are direct

quotes of what was said, every word of which appeared in my newspaper columns, in U.S. A.

Magazine

or in Barron's National Business & Financial Weekly without a single challenge:

"The black lumpenproletariat should go to war now. The slogan we need is, 'Burn,

Baby, Burn!'"

Sylvester Leaks, Harlem Writer's Guild, biographer of Malcolm X, at

First Annual Conference of Socialist Scholars, September 12, 1965.

"That's an FBI man over there. We're going to get us two, next summer:

Just

to show it can be done. They can be hurt just the same as police."

Committee for Independent Political Action Conference, Chicago,

January 1966.

.=-.

"Eventually, we seek to create a Communist society. We use the technique of

demands, always pushing and pushing on through demands, to an end where they

have to give in or fight against the revolution."

David Gilbert, Radical Education Project Conference, Princeton Uni-

versity, February 1967.

"The struggle of the '60's isn't the ballot or having jobs -- it is a physical

i struggle..Our position is -- tear it down because we don't want to be a part of

2

U.S.A.

ENCLOSURE

6.2-11639

HH 55175 DocId: 32989593

Page 44

---

## Page 45

it! In Detroit we defeated the police and the National Guard."

Ivanhoe

naldson, Third Annual Conference

ocialist Scholars,'"

New Yor

September 1967.

"Our movement is a movement which, in effect, is a total break with America."

Martin Jay, Fifth Annual Conference of Socialist Scholars, Hofstra

University, September 1969.

"We cannot permit any of the radical movement to be clamped down by the

government.

We, as revolutionary Communists, must defend all those taking

part in revolutionary action."

Stanley Aronowitz, Socialist Scholars Meeting, Town Hall, New York

City, 1969.

Despite the quibbling of the New York Times and American Civil Liberties Union, it is easy

to show how closely advocacy is followed by action. At the Radical Education Project meeting,

Princeton University, February 1967, Miss Edith Black of Union Theological Seminary announced

the formation of the North American Congress for Latin America (NACLA),

"I am a revolu-

tionist," she declared, "not just a Marxist, a revolutionist." She boasted about herself and her

associates, "What we're working on now is going to blow the whole CIA works."

It certainly did.

Recently, two multi-billion-dollar American corporations were the subjects of virulent attack

as monsters by NACIA. Subsequently, the names of two executives in these corporations

appeared on a death list marked for assassination by & West Coast revolutionary group. These

. executives cannot now lead their lives without a bodyguard. Many corporations, as well as other

American companies, are now forced to spend millions of dollars per year for security pro-

tection of their plants and personnel at home and abroad.

Among the NACIA sponsors, as shown on its letterhead, are such notorious radical revolution-

aries as: Dixie Bayo, Workers World Party associate and Activist supporter of Puerto Rican

independence; Paul Booth and Greg Calvert, former national secretaries of Students for a

Democratic Society; John Gerassi, on editorial board of Treason magazine published by the

Communist Free School of New York; Sharon Krebs, New York radical who stripped naked

during a New York banquet and presented the head of a pig to Senator William Fulbright during

a. "Crazies" disruption; and Richard Shaull, Professor of Ecumenics, Princeton Theological

Seminary, who told the Catholic Inter-American Cooperation Program in St. Louis, Missouri:•

"For an increasing number of Catholic young people there is only one hope: the organization•

of armed movements of national liberation, with all the sacrifice and bloodshed that involves. "

NACLA publications, as of March 1976, carry the address: Box 57, Cathedral Station, New

York, N.Y. 10025

and bear the labor

union bug "Local 209" which typesets the official

Communist Party, USA publications.

In September 1966, the Radical Education Project, which hatched NACLA, described in print

its revolutionary "International Intelligence Network"' and boasted, "Already, we have contacts

in Japan, most European countries, Canada, and with Guatemalan guerrillas, Vietnamese

rebels and neutrals, African nationalists and others." The stated aim of the International

Intelligence Network was "to increase the degree of coordination between their work and that

of the American movement."

That coordination is now so well organized that it is almost a commonplace news item to read

April 15 - May 15, 1976

HH 55175 DocId: 32989593 Page 45

3

---

## Page 46

about the kidnaping for ransom of American officials and business executives abroad by guer-

rillas and the destruction o

merican property at home and abr

by bombing and arson.

Nevertheless, the New York Times, the Church Committee and the American Civil Liberties

Union continue their unremitting "abolition" campaign against all our nation's intelligencc-

gathering governmental agencies. In addition, the abolitionists are now conducting a witch-

hunt against all persons suspected of having given information to or having cooperated with

the FBI, though these persons comprise thousands of citizens in all walks of life who received

no financial recompense for rendering that kind of aid to our law enforcement agencies which

is indispensable to the pursuit of criminals and the maintenance of our security.

On May 8, FBI Director Clarence Kelley said he regretted any errors made by the FBI during

"the twilight years" of J. Edgar Hoover's service to our nation. Mr. Kelley said that many

of the past FBI activities now being so strenuously condemned were, considering the times in

which they occurred, "good-faith efforts to prevent bloodshed and wanton destruction of property.

On January 13, 1976, Director Kelley said:

"Some say that our concern should be directed toward failures in our society

that spawn terrorism. I disagree. History is replete with instances where reform

did nothing to dissuade truly committed terrorists. ...The terrorist neither listens

to reason nor engages in reasoning with others. His aim is to generate fear -

to frighten people into submission."

Now is the time for all intelligent, responsible Americans to come to the aid• and comfort of

the FBI. Without its intelligence operations, each citizen would be strictly on his or

her own to fend for himself or herself against radical revolutionary or fascist terrorists.

If proposed legislation by the Church Select Committee on Intelligence Activities to halt FBI

intelligence operations were enacted by Congress, we could expect the present appalling figure:

on terrorism in our nation to double, treble and quadruple on to nationwide anarchy. That

we Americans have been spared embroilment in it and submission to terrorist forces is

largely owing to the courageous FBI agents conducting intelligence operations, the very

ones that the Church Committee proposes to legislate out of existence.

PLEASE ENTER SUBSCRIPTION FOR

U.S.A.

530 East 72nd Street

New York, N. Y. 10021

• 1 year $20.00

Name

Street

City

• 6 months' trial $10.00

• single issue $1.00

KINDLY MAKE CHECKS OR MONEY ORDERS PAYABLE TO:

U.S.A. PUBLISHING CO., INC.

U.S.A.

IN 55175

DocId:32989593 Page 46

---

## Page 47

COMPAND CAT AS SUTRE:

MAY 2 : 1576

TELETYPE

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

PAGE

10

ACTION EA-09

TOKYO 07601

211129Z

FBB932

ties Sol

sa

INFO

OCT-D1

ISO- DD

CIAE-DO

DO DE- DD

PM- 04

H- 02 INR-07

L-03

NSAE-DD

NSC - D5

PA-01 PRS-D1

FBIE-DO I0-13

SAM-D1

1070 W

SP-D2

SS-15

USIA-D6

REC-116

62-111-395-1627

* RECORDED

17 JUN 1 1976

130324

1;1.

R 211007Z MAY 76

FM. AMEMBASSY TOKYO

TO SECSTATE WASHDO 9390

INFO AMEMBASSY SEOUL

CINCPAC HO NOLULU

COMUSJAPAN YOKOTA

84 JUNT

1976

N 55175 DocId: 32989593 Page 47

141:114:

1E.

62-116395

---

## Page 48

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE TOK

17601

CINCPAC FOR POLAD

E.O. 11652: N/A

TAGS: PINT, JA

SUBJECT: JAPAN ANGLE IN FINAL CHURCH COMMITTEE REPORT

EVENING. ASAHI MAY 21 CARRIES.

PAGE TWO STORY REPORTING

THAT FBI. IN 1940 ENGAGED

IN CLANDESIINE SURVEILLANCE OF.

MAIL TO JAPANESE EMBASSY AND CONSULATES IN USA, AND THAT

AGAIN BETWEEN

1959 AND 1966 SOME MAIL TO JAPANESE UN

MISSION AND TO NEW YORK CONGEN WAS PROBABLY INTERCEPTED.

STORY IS BASED ON FINAL REPORT OF CHURCH COMMITTEE ISSUED

MAY 20. IT MAKES CLEAR THAT FBI POST-WAR SURVEILLANCE

* OF JUN AND CONGEN MAIL IS NOT SPECIFICALLY STATED IN

COMMITTEE REPORI. RATHER, IT IS INFERRED BY ASAHI

REPORTER FROM REPORT'S DESCRIPTION OF FBI OPERATION TO

INTERCEPT MAIL FROM COMMUNIST COUNTRIES ADDRESSED TO

DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS IN NEW YORK.

HODGSON

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

55175 DocId: 32989593 Page 48

---

## Page 49

+312 (Rev. 12-11-73)

-

Date of Mail 5/17/76

Has been removed and placed in the Special File Room of Records Section.

See File 66-2554-7530 for authority.

ALI INFOR TAUTCH CONTAID

Subject

JUNE MAIL - SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

Removed By

97 JUN8 1976

File Number 62-116395-1620

Permanent Serial Charge Out

FBI/DOJ

HW 55175 DocId: 32989593 Page 19

---

