# docid-32329812

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/4/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90087-10195

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 92-11921-12

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 45985 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/23/1973

5

IRWIN SIDNEY WEINER

JOSEPH LOMBARDO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/18/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

N9.1

174 45985

DocId: 32329812

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CG 92-2940

period other than a potential PCT violation on the part of

JOSEPH LOMBARDO of which the Bureau was advised through

separate Chicago file, 179-422 entitled "TOSEPH LOMBARDO,

aka; DANIEL SIEFERT - VICTIM"•

Infoimants

Source

Date Contacted

11/7/72

T-1

JOSEPH PAUL

ADORNETTO

(ADORNETTO re-

quested that his

identity be pro-

tected) •

T-2 CG 9561-PC

T-3 CG 7562-PC

T-4 CG 7607-CTE

10/17/72

12/8/72

10/19/72

12/11/72

1/24/73

Contacting Agent

SA JAMES E. BONNER

SA PHILIP H. HEIL, JR.

SA FRANK J. FORD

SA AUGUST C. KEMPFF

SA VINCENT L. INSERRA

B*

COVER PAGE

NH 45985

DocId: 32329812

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-204 (Kev, 3-3-59)

¡TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

USTICE

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

1 - USA, Chicago

1 - AIC, Chicago Field Office, SHELDON DAVIDSON

SA AUGUSI

FEB 23

92-2940

KEMPFE

JOSEPH LOMBARDO

Office:

Chicago

Bureau File #:

92-11921

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

I

Subject's car observed at GEORGE /COLUCCI Wedding Anniversary

Partyo

Subject alleged bodyguard

for IRWIN

JOE

LOMBARDO frequents Luxor Baths, 2039 West North Avenue, meet-

ing there with other Chicago hoodlums.

Universal Fiber Glass,

Elk Grove Village operated by subiecte

ÜEK (a)

Fiber Glass Company building gutted by fire

2/9/73.

DETAILS:

Chicago Police Department, furnished the results

En, letter date

By letter dated November 6, 1972, the Intelligence

of a police surveillance of a Wedding Anniversary Party for

GEORGE COLUCCI held at Sorini's Restaurant located at First

Avenue and 26th Straet,

North Riverside, Illinois.

cars registered to or driven by prominent Chicago

hoodluns

were observed at this affair.

Included in the vehicles ob

served was a 1972 Dodge with 1972 Illinois License 561 397,

registered to JOSEPH LOMBARDO, 2210 West Ohio Street, Chicago,

Illinois.

I-I in November of 1972, advised that the Golden

Cleaver Restaurant which was located on Manheim Road and

Franklin Park in 1969, was frequented by Chicago hoodlums

FRANKIE SCHWETZ

TOM BLANDO,

DOMINIC BLANDO, FRANK. CALABRESE, CARMEN BASTONE and JOI

LOMBARDO.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBl. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned in your drency; it and its contents

are not to be distributed outside your agency.

92-1192/12

U.S. COVENMENT

PRINTING OFFICE: 1070 0-406-840

NW 45985 DooId: 32329812 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-2940

T-3 in October of 1972, advised that the subject

frequents the American Bonding Company which is owned and

operated by IRWIN WEINER on South State Street on a daily

basis. The Fiber Glass business in Elk Grove Village is

being

operated by DANIEL SIEFERI,

TONY BIANCO and BONNIE.

LEHMAN, also known as BONNIE VENT, the girlfriend of LOMBARDO.

On October 19, 1972, a visit was made at the Fiber

Glass Company in Elk Grove Village, and it was determined at

that time that LOMBARDO was not on

the premises.

the persons

present on the premises at that time were DAN SiereR, and

BONNIE LEHMAN.

In December of 1972, T-3 advised that the Internal

Revenue Service had reviewed the books of the Fiber Glass Com-

pany•

JFK Law 11(a)

350 Bennett, Siz Rome abra, he poem the bathe ng at

Glass Company business operated by the subject,

was gutted

by a fire.

On february 13, 1973, Sergeant HC CARTHY, Intelli

gence Division,

Chicago Police

Department, advised

that at

approximately 8:00 a.M. Friday morning,

February 9, 1973,

JOSEPH LOMBARDO appeared at the scene of the fire

and requested

that he by allowed to retrieve company records which may have

survived the fire.

LOMBARDO was not allowed to retrieve any-

thing from the

building, and was not allowed to enter the burned

out premises.

3

92-11921-12

NW 45985 DocId: 32329812

Page 4

---

