# docid-32129934

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10037-10268

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-10461-4508, 4509

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

SEE FBI 105-82555-2718

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/29/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC A/T AND LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32129934

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John Fo Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE - 11-11-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS. UMCLASSIFIED

EXCEFT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

CONFIDENTIAL

March 12, 1964

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

on March 6, 1964 Detective Sergeant AND Si

Grimsby Borough Police; Grimsby, Lincolnshire; interviewe

MrS. ROSITAL, sister Of ALBERT OSBORNEat her residence

87 St. Heliers Road, Cleethorpes,

Lincolnshire. Mrs. GELL

stated she had seen her brother ALBERT briefly when he siteo

the Grimsby area in November 1963 but had only

been to hon

home for a few hours.

She stated she had heard from him by

mail earlier in the year when he indicated he was coming to

Grimsby on a visit.

She produced the letter she had received

frOm ALBERt Which bore the

return address of Emilio Corranza

4A, Texmelucan, Mexico.C

She advised she had heard her brother had been

married in the U. S. but had no details regarding the identity

of his family.

stated her brother lived with her as a

young boy after their mother died but ran away from home to

join the British Army, lying about his age, when he was about

16 years old.

She further added it was about 47 years before

she or any of the family heard or saw him again.

At that time

he printed a notice in the paper advising his family he was

still alive and was returning on a visit

The only other time

he has been back to Grimsby was his recent trip in November

1963. (C)

On March 6, 1964 Sergeant F

MAYS, Horncastle

Station, Lincolnshire Constabulary, interviewed ARTHUR OSBORNE

brother

of ALBERT, at his home, 14

Mill Lane,

Marenam Road,

Horncastle, Lincolnshire.

ARTHUR advised that he, like his

sister ROSETTA, had seen ALBERT very briefly during his visit

to England in November 1963 and that he was of the opinion that

ALBERT had

been married and that his wife had been killed in an

automobile accident, date unknown and that ALBERT had a son

who was killed in World War II.

The son was married and they

had one

However,

it was ARTHUR's recollection that

the son's wife had remarried and also the child, a daughter;

is now married.

According to ARTHUR he was of the opinion

ALBERT had

very little to

do with the family now that both his

wife and son were dead.

This docúment contains neither

recormendations nor conclusions of

the 191

It is the property of

the 191 and is loaned to your agency:

I sid ils cotienis are not to be f

Warind ouside your agency.

Dedassily m: - 04 (JFKispecial)

100-10461-4508

SEARCHED

:. INDEXEL

SERIALIZED

MAR 1 9.1964

FBI - DALLAS

torton

Anto.

GONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32129934

Page 2

---

