# docid-32165965

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

bate:

10/25/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10158-10490

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

89-43-C-SEE COMMENTS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

SAC, SD

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/06/1977

2

LHO, INTV, WATSON, RICHARD SIDNEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/24/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

89-43-C-AUXILIARY OFFICE ORIGINIAL FD-302'S ONLY, DATE LOWER LEFT CORNER

v9.1

DocId: 32165965

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 19r05C

DA1E3021RE+11-22007

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

DECLASSIFIED BY.

ON

10/4/93

M

Date of transcription_

4/8/77

State Judicial Police Agent RENE. GRANADOS accompanied

Special Agents ROBERT F. ROGERS and HENRY D. TENORIO to the Municipal

Jail in Ensenada, Baja California, Mexico, whereby RICHARD SIDNEY

WATSON was made available for interview.

X(4)

WAISON was brought to the Director's Office at the jail and

there hè was made aware of the identities of the interviewing Agents,

Special Agents ROGERS and TENORIO.: Prior to any questioning, WATSON

wasadvised.of his rights and furnished an interview form entitled,

"Interrogation; Advice of Rights" which he stated he understood and

signed. He then furnished the following information:

He advised that the information concerning RUBY and OSWALD

pertaining to an alleged hotel receipt was information that he had

from the National Enquirer. magazine.

He stated that as far as

recall the article, OSWALD and RUBY supposedly met in a motel

outside New Orleans, Louisiana, but he could not recall the date

the issue of the magazine.

He stated

that while in jail in Ensenada, he had seen a film

clip of a 35mm print.

The print was subsequently burned; but later a

fellow prisoner showed him a photograph of this film clip.. The photo-

graph showed four individuals, OSWALD, CHE GUEVARA, a SYLVIA PENAL

(wife of a KGB Agent VALERA KOSTANOF, phonetic), and another

individual who appeared to him to be PHILIP AGEE, former CIAAgent.

He stated that this photograph appeared. to have been taken at the

Hacienda Campence, Cuidad de Carmen, lucatan Peninsula, MeXICO. &

WATSON also stated that he had furnished all of this

information to Admiral TURNER STANFORD, Director, CIA, Western Hemis-

phere, who is a personal friend of his

father and that he had also

made this information available to Assistant Director in Charge

RICHARD GEBHARDT, LoS Angeles FBI, LoS Angeles, California.

He said

that he had

contacted GEBHARDI. on November. 3, 1976, under the Freedom

of Information and Privacy Act, regarding information that the FBI

might have in their files concerning him.

However, he stated he had

not received any mail and felt as though his mail was being intef p4)

cepted at the Ensenada jail.

WATSON also advised that he had made all of this information

available to GEORGE

Viejo, California.

GRAY,

Staff Writer, Santa Ana Register, Mission

Interviewed on_ 4/6/77

SA

ROBERT F. ROGERShaha

SA HENRY D. TENORIO/çwf: pgh

Ensenada, B.C., Mexico

This document contains

neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBi. Tirs4.

it and its contents

are, not to be distributed outside your agency.

idea orate

89-43€ SECTI

_File #_

SD 62-1529

(4)

4/8/77

AR

DocId: 32165965

Page 2

---

