# docid-32329095

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90084-10076

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-250912-5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 08/20/1974

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA

UNSUBS VISTIORS TO THE CZECH EMBASSY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

LHM

v9.1

HT 54027

23

DocId: 32329095

Page 1

Date:

4/30/201

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

D8-23-2017

---

## Page 2

₫ 1.

SECRET

RE: LEOVINO INTERIAN

entered the United States at Miami without inspection.

He

made a voluntary statement that they had departed Miami,

January 8, 1964, on the "Sigma X" to go to Nurse Cay, Bahamas,

to pick up some

Cubans trying to leave Cuba to avoid political

persecution; that these Cubans

had failed to appear,

so they

returned

to Miami.

On November 20, 1970, INTERIAN filed application to

reenter the United States following a trip to the Dominican

Republic on vacation.

On March 2, 1972, he filed an application for

permit to reenter the United States. He planned to leave on

March 25, 1972, from Miami via Panama to Venezuela on vaca-

tion.

MM T-1 has been contacted at frequent intervals,

the last time being

on February 21, 1974, at which

time he

possessed

no recent information indicating that INTERIAN has

given any instructions on the subject of bombings or has

manufactured any bombs or been involved in any

bombings on

behalt of FIN or any other organization (solu

(WXIon December 13,

1973, MM I-2, who is knowledgeable

concerning some Cubans dealing

in explosives, advised/ that

his last contact with INTERIAN occurred during the early

1960s when he met. INTERIAN through ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, who

was convicted on bombing charges in 1968 but who is now out

parole.

1(XMI-2 has advised|during recent contacts that he

has

knowledge of any current involvement by INTERIAN in

explosives nor any contact by INTERIAN with BOSCH or other

known suspected bombers.

some lon December 6 19rs asTa, sio is acquainted will

members, advised that he possessed no information

whatsoever concerning INTERIAN and has never seen him in

contact with BOSCH or other suspected bombers.

3.

SAPTOURIIAL

SECRE

IN 54027 DocId: 32329095 Pagé 2

---

