# docid-32289534

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10201-10310

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-588

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/03/1962

3

LST, ASSOC, EMP, GAMBLING, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : . Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: - 10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

ry..

v9.1

NN 45966• DocId: 32289534. Page 1

47

---

## Page 2

FBI

Date:

8/3/62

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

(Type in plain text or code)

Via.

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

SAC, MIAMI (92-88) (P)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

(00 - Tampa)

Rerep SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE, dated 7/24/62,

Tampa.

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

Subject,

accompanied by STEFANO TONY RANDAZZO,

observed on 7/31/62 at 523 NE 71st St., and at the J.D.

Ball Ford Co., 9000 NW 7th Ave., where

the 1961 white Falcon

subject drives was being polished.

On 8/1/62 a white male, later identified as

FRANK CRANDON, 11760 SW 173rd St., Miami, was observed *

doing some electrical work at 523 NE 71st St.. Mr. CRANDON,

an electrician, advised on 8/2/62, he installed some

electrical wiring for an air conditioner the subject is

having installed.

CRANDON said he was hired to do this

job by a person he knows only as "FREDDY," who either owns

or manages Morton Tower TV, Inc., 1120 - 15th Street, Miami

Beach.

He said he had done a couple of other jobs for

"FREDDY!' who does not tell him the names of the person he

is doing the job for and advises him to send the bills to

Morton Tower TV, Inc.

On 8/2/62 an unknown white male, driving a white

1960 Cadillac convertible, 1962 Fla. license 1WW15684 was

observed to enter the driveway at 523 NE 71st St. Motor

3 - Bureau (AM)

2

- Tampa (92-1) (AM)

2 - Miami

REC 192-2781-588

JIM: jkj

(7)

53 AUG 1 3 1962

Approved:

Sent

M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

WH 45966 DocId: 32289534 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-88

Vehicle records reflect the license was issued to B.

NASTER, Diplomat Hotel, Hollywood, Florida.

Miami files reflect BERT K. NASTER, FBI# 4583572,

was convicted in 1945 for Income Tax Evasion.

He was accused

in 1951 before a Congressional Committee of

demanding

$500,000.00 from ABRAHAM TEITELBAUM, who "fixed" an Income

Tax case against TEITELBAUM. NASTER later appeared before

this committee and denied the charge.

On 8/3/62 JOSEPHINE TRAFFICANTE was observed

working in the yard at 523 NE 71st Street.

Three officials of the NYC PD were in Miami on

8/3/62 investigating the murder of ALBERT ANASTASIA.

They

advised they have a list of Cubans to locate and interview

re any connection the subject may have had with the murder.

The following characterizations are for the

info of the Tampa Office:

DINO CELLINI, FBI# 2198122, an admitted professional

gambler; worked in casinos in Havana, Cuba, prior to the CASTRO

regime.

He is a personal friend and

associate of SANTO

TRAFFICANTE. He resides at 12459 Keystone Road, N. Miami.

THOMAS ALTAMURA, FBI# 511563. MM 609-C

advised SA C. GRAHAM HURST

on 6/8/59 that THOMAS ALTAMURA

is a "enforcer" and "leg man" for JOHN TRONOLONE, aka,

"PEANUTS" TRONOLONE in TRONOLONE"s shylock operation.

Info has been received that in 1961 THOMAS ALTAMURA was

involved in bookmaking activities at Miami Beach, Fla.

It has also been reported that ALTAMURA in 11/61

was in

a bookmaking partnership with JOSEPH CHIERICO.

JOSEPH CHIERICO, aka, "CHICKIE", FBI #411828D,

is President of Sonny's Restaurant and Pizzeria,

247 -

23rd St., Miami Beach.

It has been reported

I that CHIERICO

is involved in bookmaking activities at Miami Beach.

- 2 -

991-1021

NW 45966

DocId: 32289534 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 92-88

MM 609-C is a daily associate of thieves and

gamblers in the Miami

area.

MM 639-C is a person who has a wide acquaintance

among the

hoodlum element in the Miami area.

is a person who is closely

associated

with the subject.

PETER GIAMPAPA is acquainted with the subject

and has knowledge of certain activities of the subject.

OTHER

3

NW 45966 DocId: 32289534 Page 4

---

