# docid-32330679

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90091-10110

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 166-636-36

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 45863 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 06/18/1968

PAGES:

41

SUBJECTS :

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

HH 45863

2

DocId: 32330679

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DL 166-102

ADMINISTRATIVE

On 5/7/68, DL 271-C and DL 275-C-TE advised that

MATTHEWS had purchased a semi-automatic submachine gun in

the last couple of weeks and stated he obtained the

gun

at Ray's Hardware on Singleton

Street, in South Dallas.

Records of Southwestern Bell Telephone Company,

Dallas, Texas, were made available to

reporting Agent by

Mr. JAMES M. VAUGHAN, IR., Area Security Manager.

B. C. TRAMMEL, Manager,

Gulf States Telephone

Company, who wished his name and information kept confidential,

advised

that 489-3551 is listed to the Malakoff Real Estate

Company and Malakoff Insurance Agency, 119 Terry Street,

Malakoff, Texas, and is operated by PAUL R. PHILLIPS.

Noted

the above telephone number was called from the home phone of

subject GEBRON.

The information from the Southwestern Bell Telephone

Company, San Antonio, Texas, was obtained through WILLIAM J.

JONAS,

security Supervisor, by SA DAVID A. BARCLAY.

On 4/5/68, OC 549-PC furnished the following infor

mation to SA HOWARD CECIL Of the Oklahoma City Office:

WILLS (FRANCIS LEROY WILLS) and JOE ELLISAVAN.

SCOY were both engaged in the bookie, operation of GEORG

EDWARD BARNES during the 1967 footbald season. BARNES

turnished both with & telephone number in Texas where they

werE

to call MATTHEWS for the latest line. Thereafter, either

WILIS Or VAN SCOY called MATTHEWS, generally three

on landsy, Wednesday, and Saturday, between 10:30 g15d

week,

the various booths of the exact date each was used.

These calls were placed at the beginning of the foot-

ball season and were terminated when MATTHEWS!

raided.

Informant advised MATTHEWS resides

nant advised an

operation

was

with his mother

in

Dallas, but the number called, which is no longer in the

possession of the informant,

was not the subject's residence

but rather his book location.

Informant stated MATTHEWS

supposedly has a drinking problem and

on

"the mornings after

ke had been drunk, MATTHEWS would be late in arriving at his

book and had to be called after 11:00

2oM.

Cover Page

NW 45863 DooId: 32330679 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DI 166-102

Oklahoma City Office advised that telephone records

there

are maintained for only a six-month period.

Coin tele=

phone records are maintained for only the latest

five collec

tion periods, which generally averages less than

six months.

AT 1814-C advised an Agent of the Atlanta Office

that he

knows

HAZEL SMITH and that she is not known to

gamble.

Office advised that telephone number FE 8-2024 is listed to

resides at 1619 Suters Lane, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Cover

Page

HH 45863

DocId: 32330679

Page 3

---

