# docid-32303894

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10284-10406

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

2-1566-18TH NR 1

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Mesassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NI 54460 Date:

10-03-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: AG

TITLE :

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/26/1959

11

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO, LHM

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32303894

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1 = Donahoe

1 i Nasce

The Attorney General

October 2ú, 1959

DireOtor, FBI

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ANTI-FIDEL CASINO ACTIVIZIES

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

reference is nade to my communication

captioned

, "Anti-Fael Castro Activitles" dated

october 23, 1959, with encloaure,

addressed

Assistant Attorney General Jo Halter Yeagley.

This communication reported the results of our

interulew with Fedro luis Diaz lanz, JOTHeT

chief of the Cuben Air Foroe, on October 22, 1959,

at which time Diar lane admitted piloting the

plane which dropped leaflets over Favana, Cuba,

or. October 21,

2959°

copies of this comnunication

together with its enolosure are enclosed for your

information and for the injurnation of Deputy

Attorney General Laurence E. Helsho

I thought you would be interested in

subsequent developmenta.

There are enclosed

an original and one copy of a memorandun summarizing

these developments Single copies-of this menorandun

are enclosed for Deputy Attorney General Halsh

and for hesistant Attorney General Yeagley.

(4)

APPROPRIATE

AGENCIES

AND FIELD

FICES

ADVISIO!

DATE

пла.

109-584

1 - Air.

Laurence to Halsh

• Enclosures

Deputy Attorney General

I - Assistant Attorney General - Enclosure

Jo Halter Yeagley

2-1566

LABI

olson

Selmont

shr

Jasp

Irsons

isen

iam

ratter

C. Sullivan -

• le. Room -

lan

5 NOV L ROBES

TELETYPE UNIT L

Tanz)

Classified "Confidential" because enclosures so classi.

fied.

Enclosures classified "Confidential" because it contai›

information from an informant who is furnishing valuable:

information on a continuing basis, concerning matters affecti

internal security.

THN.RDC:senshrt.oes

LASSIFIED BY 1O40

:: (9)

-8-72 EFG

WW 51460

DooId: 32303894

Page 2

---

## Page 3

I - Mr. Belmont

- Мт.

Donahoe

1 - Mr. Nasca

109-584

CLASSIMED

EXTENDE

SPS. TEK/24/043. 3/0128

REASCH

FOR. I.

...2

DATE T

DECLASSA

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITJAS

10l24/09-06tober 26, 1959

On Cotober 23, 1959, we furnished a summary of

the data contained

in the referenced communicetion to

our representative

in Havene, Cuba.

our representative

jurnished our Ambassador with this information on the

sane day.

The imbassador was very gratejul for the

information furnished.

Ors October 23, 1959, our representative in

Havane oduised the mited states Air Attache reported

that the alreraft dropping leaflets on October 2l, 1959,

were identified by e sergeant of hie office as a 1-25 and

OOLASSIFIED

0a49.

No B-25 is knows to be in Cube and only one is

knoun to be in florida. Ills is the property of

Frant Anthony Sturgis, also known as Frank Florini. His

plane was last based at Worth Perry Alrport, Miant.

6-47 reportedly had yellow stripes painted on its tail.

No atroraft so maried uns knoun to be based in cuba.

planes flew over the Hilton Hotel, headquarters of the

inerican saclety of Iravel Agents Convention, dropping

leaflets.

Their purpose allegedly was to show that the

present Cuban Goverment is incompetent to maintain law

and order.

No bombe were eropped. There uns no strafing

from the air, but some Cuban planes were damaged by

misdirected Cuban Army and police ground fire.

An informant with unon ineufficient contact

has been had to determine his reliability, on Detober 23,

1959, learned that the Cuban Air Force had Instructions to

nave two fighters ready to intercept any returning invaders.

With reference to the B-25 mentioned above,

Want Office caulsed on Detober 23, 1959, that the B-25

flown by Diaz lonz, according to Die. Lanz, was ouned by

V.H. Nasca: bud

• (9)

1 - 105-72630 (Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz)

Tolson

Belmont

NOTE:

Mohr

Classified "Confidential" since it contains information

Nease

from an informant who is furnishing information of value on a

Parsons

continuing basia concerning National Defence. CC to AG, Deputy AG

Rosen

Tamm

-IS-DiU.

- APPROCTAT/ NORNCIES

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

CLASSIFIEN

BY

204.0

ADI

TraS

Tele. Room - EXEMPT FR

OM GOS CATEGORY

Candy DATEDFOON

Gandy —

-1566

2IEG

MACS FRANI CLINDEFINIT

SLET

Medicatein

11-8÷77

I.:

54460

DooId: 32303894

Page 3

---

## Page 4

ANIL-FIDEL

TRO ACIIVITIES

On October 24, 2959, the informant mentoned on

page two of the enclosure to the rejerenced communication

and who has furnished rellable information in the, past reporteo

that o leaflet in the Spanish longuage was

being distributed

in the cuban colony in murante

The recipents of the leaflet

were invited to attend & meeting at o p.m.p

October 25, 1959,

at the Circulo Cubano (Cuban (trole), Miant, Florida, a

sociel club, to protest and condemn the activities which

occurred over Havona on October 21, 1959.

It was indicated

the leaflets that the meeting was being

sponsored by the

July 26 Movement (Castro's movement), Miant. The informant

learned that individuals representing vardous anti-Castro:

groups in Miami were plonning to attend the meeting, some of

indicated they would carry guns, thus giving rise to fr

bloodshed between the pro- and anti-Castro factions. The

Miont Police Deportment and the Dade County Department of

Public Safety have been notified and these agenetes plan to

take whatever steps

are necessary to insure that no uiolence

will be carried out.

The informant mentioned in the foregoing paragraph

learned that, because of the furor raised in cuba during the

past few days,

the air sabotage unich nad been scheduled to

continue through october 30, 1959%

had temporarily ceased.

this data, together with the data in the preceding paragraph,

was orally furntshed to Mr. Kenney

by Mr. O'Connor on

October 24, 1959.

ön October 24,

1959, Mr Kenney asked concerning

the availability and willingness of this informant to testify

concerning the data set forth on page two of the enclosure.

On October 25, 1959;

the informant advised he was unilling

This data was orally furnished

Assistant Attorney General J. Walter Yeagley by Mr. V. H. Nasco

of this Bureau

on October 25, 1959.

On October 24, 1959, Mr. Kenney also asked concerning

the availability and willingness of the informant mentioned

on test onE toe chelosee to the referenced communication

on October 25, 1959, our Miani Office advised that

upon recontact Charles Willian Hormel,

the informant in this

matter,

stated he was willing to testify. Our Mioni Office

74 54460

DocId: 3230

13894

Page 4

---

## Page 5

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

noted that Hormel stated he arrived at Remmert Warner Airport,

Pompano, Florida, about 11:20 p.m., Ootober 21, 1959, went to:

the airport where he passed the time of day with the night

watchman.

While talking they heard a news broadcast of air

raid and leaflet dropping over Havona. The night watchman

commented

that a B-25 might have been involved in this venture,

that it had left the airport about 5 p.m. and returned about

9 p.m, that day. Hormel asked who hod piloted the plane and

the night watchman told him Diaa Lana did. Hormel then went

out to the plone, took down the seial number and furnished

the data to our Miami Office. It is noted that Hormel is

presently under indictment in an Alcohol and Zobacco Tax

Division matter, charged with transporting arme by car.

Information concerning Hormel has previously been furnished

the Internal Security Division. We are endeavoring to identify

the night watohman and deterine his willingness and availability

to testify. This information was orally furnished to Mr. Teagley

on October 25, 1959, by Mr. Nasco.

On Ootober 24, 1959, the Deputy Director of Security,

Department of State, advised he had received a telegrám from

our Embassy in Havona stating that the United states Naval Attache

had passed along information to the effect that Dias Lana might

make other raids in lavana on October 24 and October 26, 1959.

The Embassy made a strong request that appropriate authorities

be advised so that Dias Lana would be prontbited from doing this.

This information was orallyfurnished to Mr. Kenney by Assistont

Director

A. H. Belmont on October 24, 1959. Mr. Belmont advised

Mr. Kenney that this Bureau did not know the accuracy of the

information and there was no action this Bureau could take to.

stop Dias Lana from further flights unless such flights are

detemined to be a violation of the laws under our jurisdiction.

Mr. Kenney was also advised that we would alert United States

Customs in Miami and the Federal Aviation Agency In Miant, This

was done on October 24, 2959. It is noted that the press on

October 24, 1959, reported that there had been another leaflet

dropping raid over Havana. Information similar to that provided

by the Deputy Directon of Security had previously been received

by our liami office as indicated in the next paragraph. (Co

On October 23, 1959, Deputy Al Tarabochia, Public

Safety Department, Dade County, Mtamt, advised our Miami Office

that Jose Ramos, Vice Consul, acting in charge, Criban Consulate,

Miant, olaimed to have received information from a source whose

74 54460

DooId: 32303894

Page 5

---

## Page 6

ANTI-ITDEG CASTRO ACZIVILLAO

Acconding do the informont, he conferred wich

Almejetros and Cobo on Gobober 25, 1959, Amejetres proposed

that source approach Rolando Masferrer, prominent anti-Coatro

looder in Miami, on some other leading anti-Castro leader in

United states und volunteer do undertake a bonbing abtech

agained Havano from the United States,

Accorting to the plon outlined by mmeetres.

informont woule procure bonds with United States Government

markings and vould deliver them to Almejeiros after londing

as a prearranged Lending ebrip ouside lavana, 20 us indteated

that Cuben auchoritles bould then lesue a press release claiming

• Mient-based plane had aropped bombs on Oubes

as proof one or more of the bonbs wich Untoed Stated martings

watch supposedly had failed do explode as well ds fragmente

from other bombs which the Cubens unzia explode.

Cold informane

this hoax vould enable the Coatro regime to

propagandise againot the Unlted Staten Srate Departnent En

ordar to foroe United Statos aston ugainst anti-lestré

elements in this coutry.

Anejetros said he wunted

Fuse to

The

infornont uill endeavor to deuclop additional information cono

verning this proposed plot. (all

The Infomant alao learned that Almejeiras reportedly

stated that doveral hand gronades were dropped from the plone

that dropoco leaflets over Ravona on October 22, 2959%

Reportedly. Almejetras etated that another alone fleu over

Havana on October 22, 1959, but Shas the Cuban Govornment did

not have any desoriptive desa conderning this plane.

XIa)

It is requested that no further dissemination be

made of the information furnished by this informant because

to do ao might ploce his life in jeopardy.

1Đ C

74 54460

DooId: 32303894

Page 6

---

