# docid-32325823

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90038-10012

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-4930-9

Releazed cadet

Re tear E.

KeRRedi

Recesda

14€TE0

Cate:

-÷--6-233

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

- TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 03/24/1961

PAGES:

34

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

JAMES HENRY DOLAN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4; 11(a)

Redact

01/15/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

NW 45771 DocId: 32325823 Page 1

---

## Page 2

DL 92-292

(3)

Contact Dallas Federal Savings and Loan Association

to determine

circumstances of DOLAN's house loan.

(4) Contact Oak Cliff Bank and Trust Company, Dallas,

and obtain facts of personal loan of DOLAN.

Determine

whether

or not he maintains a bank account at this

institution.

(5)

Exhibit photograph of BENJAMIN MONTGOMERY

SUMNER (Dallas file 87-2904) to informant DL -C to see if

he is identical with associate of DOLAN.

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

INFORMANT COVERAGE

Presently utilized by the Dallas Office are the

following who are believed to be in a position to furnish

information regarding subject, his associates and activities:

DL 91-C

DL -95 -C

PCI L

Dallas

DL 129-C

NO - 1139-C.

JEK Act 6 (4)

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

DL T-I is HUGH C. FOWLER, Booking Agent, Commercial

Building, Dallas, Texas, contacted by SA MANNING

C. CLEMENTS

and SA CHARLES T. BROWN, JR.

DL T-2 is DL-91-C, contacted by SA ALFRED D. NEELEY..

DL T-4 is DL-129-C, contacted by SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT.

NO T=1 is NO-1139-C, contacted by SA PERCY D.

RICHARDSON.

Omaha T-l is PCI

contacted by

SA DONAL S. DAWSON.

Omaha T-2 is PCI

contacted by

SA DONAL S. DAWSON.

Phoenix Tol is PX-656-C, contacted by SA JOHN B. DUFFY.

Phoenix T-2 is PX-657-C,

contacted by SA JOHN B. DUFFY.

COVER PAGE

NW 45771 DocId: 32325823

Page 2

---

