# docid-32304549

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10286-10179

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-339235-160

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOS

FROM: SCHWARTZ, ABBA P.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

03/25/1964

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SHF, BKG, PASSPORT, CP ACT, TRA, COOP, FBI, SECURITY

INDEX, CHINESE COMMUNIST, ASSOC, TESTIFY, SACB

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1B; 1C; 4

Redact

09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

4880331nab1on Becords

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#: NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v91

174 54464

205

DocId: 32304549

Page 1

---

## Page 2

/DOS INFO

DECLASSIFRO

12/10197

Administrator

Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs

Department of State

The source utilized in my letter to the

Director of the Bureau of Intelligence and Research,

Department of State, dated September 19,

1963,

unavailable to testify at an adninistrative hearing.

The source identified as T-4 in the memorandum

dated september 10, 196s, at New Tork,

New York, is

unaveilable to testify at an administrative hearing.

The sources identified as 7-6 and T-9 in the

report of Special Agent Daniel A. Flynn, dated July 2,

1963, at New York, New York, and the source identified

as T-15

In the report of Special Agent Reidy, dated

November 35,

1959, at New Jork, New York, are former

sources of this Bureau.

an inquiry has been directed

to the New York City Office of thie Bureau and you will

be promptly advised as to whether

these three former

sources can be made available to testify at an administra-

tive hearing.

1 - Mx.

J. Walter Yeagley

Assistant Attorney General

NOTE:

Subject is on Security Index and during 1959-

1960 spent approximately 18 months in Communist China.

Subject is incclose contact with owners of "China Daily

News, "a pro-Chinese communist language newspaper published

in New York City Subject has allegedly been in contact

with Chinese comnunists in New York City.&State Departrent

advises subject applied for a passport on 2/18/64 and

State Department desires to obtain witnesses who could

testify at an

administrative hearing regarding her possible

Communist Party membership in order that State Departuent

could sustain the denial of a passport to the subject.e/u)

ources, mentioned, above who are not available for testimon

are our highly placed informants,

BA 975-S* Yas well as a confidential investigative. technique.

Tew York, by separate communication being instructed to

deternine the availability and willingness to testify of

- 2

SCReT

HIH

54464

DooId: 32304549

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Administrator

Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs

Department of State

NOTE: (CONTINUED)

former NY 3234-S, former NY 2724-S as well as Ethel Klein

Newton who is former NY 1086-5.

• It is noted Newton has

testified before the Subversive Activities Control Board.

This letter is classified "Confidential" as

information relates to possible

action which may be taken

against the subject involving current informants, the dis-

closure of

whom could adversely affect the national

defense.

LIAt

- 3

NW 54464 DocId: 32304549

Page 3

---

