# docid-32307437

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/6/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10292-10140

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-141949-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/14/1967

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

FS, OBA, RES, EMP, LEADER, MIRR, ACA, ASSOC, ARREST,

BKG, REL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC ADMIN PAGE, LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32307437

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ReLeased Le-he John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection det at 1992 111 USe 2107 Katey.

APPROPRIAKE AGENCIES

AND FIELD OFFICES

ADVISED

COLTIN

Transmit the followingSin P(S)

DATE

FBI

Date:

JUL 1 4 1967

SECRET

AIRTEL

Via

-Hype in plaintext or code)

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority)

77-19-671

i as

Classified by 4

Declassify on CADR

92-83

RECL53

vitel +246417177

/ce.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI

(105-2856)

(P)

SUBJECT:

ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, aka

IS - CUBA

PO

DECLASSIFIED BY SPS-ME

Bo-

2

1-27-45

Reference

Bureau airtel,

6-21-67, to

Miami in the case entitled "MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR), IS - CUBA, NM -CUBA",

Bufile 97-4474, Miami file 105-2855.

•Guar

IFAA

Enclosed herewith are 10 copies of a LHM, dated

and captioned as above.

Pursuant to Bureau instructions, copies are

being disseminated locally to INS and Secret Service.

ons

State/CIA/Secret Service

Army/Havy/Air Foreo/DIA/Cust

Coordinator of Curen Affairs,

VAN

By R/S For Into

2-19-41

Date

MM T-1 is WILLIAM SAMPOL who, though not a Bureau

informant,

nas voluntarily "Uashed to New York information

in this

matter which has

to be reliable in the past.

MM T-2 is MM 492-S

(U)

REC

651405-141949-2

The LHM is classified

SECRET in order to protect

MM T-1,]

who occupies

dealing with this militant group/

the revelation of whose

identity could be

United

States.

prejudicial to the defense interests of the

Bureau (Enc. 101

(RM)

1-New York (info) (Enc. 1) (RM),

2-Miami

(1-105-2856) Wick

(1-105-2855)-(MIRR) 'T!

GED/aL

(6)

B

JUL IT 1967

53 PU

26 1009

al Agent

Sent

LATERICAN

10050141949

harge

DocId: 32307437

Page 2

i para. 4, lime 9i lett 12/14/24

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC

2107

DATE:

11-14-2017 /

UN

STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

,,STICE

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

MM 105-2856.

SECRET

Miami, Florida

JUL 1 4 1967

Hote).

SECRET.

mde.

ON

1-9:

RE:

ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, also known as

Dr.

Orlando Bosch

(FE)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Classified by.

ALL INFOSIATION CONTAINED

MEET I DUNCLASSIFIED

I:

PREDICATION

EXCE

SLATE DACHN

Declassify ott

1р 3 сда

6-73/53

MM T-1, who is acquainted with some members of the

Cuban Nationalist Movement in New York, City, advised on

June 5, 1967, that a meeting took place on June 3 - 4, 1967,

in the New York area.

Present were IGNACIO NOVA, Secretar

General of the Movimiento Nacionalist Cubana (Cuban

Nationalist Movement - CNM)

head of the Movimiento Insurreccional de Recuperacion

Recuperation - MIRR),

Rescate Revolucionarla Democratica

Rescate Revoluctonanta Denocratica

MM T-1 reported

that future plans of

Cubans were discüssed and

anti-CASTRO

these plans centered in Canada.

BOSCH wanted to carry out a two-pronged attäck against the

Cuban Government in Canada.

He specifically spoke about

the assassination of the Cuban Ambassador to Canada, and

an attack on

a Cuban ship in the port of Montreal(s)

BOSCH, according to MM T-1, explained that they

would not use a member of the CNM because they were too

"hot"

BOSCH said that his man "GUTIERREZ" in Miami had

nine rockets, timing devices, C-3 and C-4 (explosives)

which could be used in their

future plans. He related

that the Cuban exiles wanted to show the United States

Governont, an idio ana ine fonderation and laura season sa

SECRET - CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

Group,

Excluded from automatic

T22)9 49-2883RET

DocId: 32307437 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

RE: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA

Service that what action had been taken against FELIPE

RIVERO, National Director of the CNM, could not stop the

Cuban exiles in their fight against Prime Minister FIDEL

CASTRO Of CubaCB(4)

MM T-1 stated that BOSCH told the NOVO brothers

and Dr. DE VARONA that upon his return

to Miami he would

have "GUTIERREZ" send the necessary equipment to one of

his, BOSCH's, men in the New York area and coordinate

further plans with

the CNM through the NOVO brothers.

BOSCH did not further identify "GUTIERREZ" (S)

MM T-l said that during the entire discussion,

DI. DE VARONA did not make any comment concerning the

plans of BOSCH. (p)(ULUBAN

NATIONAUIST

The MIRR is a Small action group of anti-FIDEL

CASTRO Cuban exiles headquartered in Miami, Florida, under

the leadership of ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, a former medical

doctor. in Cuba.

Since 1961, members of the MIRR have been

involved in numerous and almost continuous activities of

a revolutionary nature, including bombing' raids, attempted

raids, sabotage, demonstrations, and propaganda

The CN is a small action group of anti-CASTRO

Cuban exiles with members in Miami

Florida, and the New

York. City area.

arrested

and ancarcerated r, anon Maroo, to 7, by the

Immigration and Naturalization Service on revocation of

his parole.

Prior to his arrest, RIVERO had claimed credit

publicly on behalf of his organization for firing a bazooka

shell at the United Nations building, New York City, on

December 14, 1964, and for three explosions which took

place in Canada at other times.

He has also admitted

that the CNM had plans for an action against the Cuban

pavilion at Expo 67, Montreal, Canada.

2.

ET

DocId: 32307437 Page 4

---

