# docid-32330658

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90091-10089

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

166-636-21

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection det. of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 45863 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TiTLE:

DATE: 10/06/1966

PAGES:

20

SUBJECTS :

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HH 45863

17

DocId: 32330658

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DL 166-102

JEK. ACt 6 (4)

Race

Sex

Birth data

Height

Weight

Eyes

Complexion

Remarks

White

Male

7/26/20, Aspermont, Texas

6°11"

218

Brown

Ruddy

Has traveled extensively

In the Southwest.

The Oklahoma City Office advised that in January 1965

OC 441-C reported that GEORGE BARNES used the services of R. D:

MATTHEWS,

collector of gambling debts

described as a Dallas hoodlum and strong-arm man and

On 8/22/66, PCI L

advised SA

JOSEPH M. MYERS that he had been in the Surfside Six Club,

Fort Worth, Texas, recently and observed R. D

MATTHEWS, who

he understands is a hoodlu from Dallas, along

with a former

prize fighter from Dallas named TONY GENERO and a group of other

people whom he did not recognize.

Informant stated at one time

during the evening, MATTHEWS got a telephone call and informant

overheard MATTHEWS stating to the operator that the area code was

405 (Oklahoma City) and when he got his party he stated that all

was arranged and for the other party to "not sweat it"

Informant

did not know the significance of the above, but got the impression

GENERO was an employee of MATTHEWS.

With regard to TONY GENERO, it is belteved he is identical

to one ANTHONY SALVATORE JACENE, FBI NO. 507 453 A, who has been

around Dallas recently going under the name of TONY GENERO

(phonetic) and has been seen by local police officers hanging

out at the Skyknight Club on Maple Street, Dallas, with MATTHEWS

and also one ALAN PAUL MARTINO. Separate

Anti-Racketeering cases

have been opened on JACENE and MARTINO to determine their back-

grounds.

On 8/31/66, REX BAILEY, Division Manager, Southwestern

States Telephone Company, Bryan,

Texas, advised an Agent of the

Houston Office that telephone number 823-4515 is listed to the

Willow Grove Cafe, 3801 Highway 6 North, Bryan.

Cover Page

1 666-6636-21-

NW 45863 DooId: 32330658 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 166-102

On the dates indicated the following informants were

contacted but could not furnish any

pertiment information

regarding the subject:

DI 275-C-TE contacted 7/26/66

DL 271-C contacted 7/26/66

DL 185-C contacted: 8/10/66

On 9/28/66, DL 275-C-TE advised the subject still

resides with his mother at 4509 Southern, Dallas, Texas.

Records of the Southwestern Bell Telephone Company,

Dallas, were made available: on 7/14/66 and 9/7/66 by MR. JAMES

VAUGHAN, JR., Area Security Supervisor, and on 9/15/66 by

ar. ROBERt Her, Security Agent of that company.

is noted the Bureau by airtel dated 9/2/66 instructed

that this matter be carried under ITAR • GAMBLING and that ANTI

RACKETEERING be dropped from the character; therefore, the 92 file

at Dallas has been closed and

the investigation is proceeding under

Dallas file 166-102.

Telephone records were reviewed after Bureau authority

was received per Bureau letter dated 7/7/66 and Bureau airtel

dated 9/2/66

Cover Page

1 666-436-11

74 45863

DooId: 32330658

Page 3

---

