# docid-32303625

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10284-10137

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-143228-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/05/1966

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

4

Redact

02/28/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

SUMMARY OF TRANSLATION FROM FRENCH, DATE LOWER LEFT CORNER

v9.1

DocId: 32303625

3

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under

the

DATE -J1/14-2017

John

Kenne

ssinal

Recor

(44 050

Hote).

SECRET

condon meda

(SUMARY FiOM FRENCH] (5)

62-117280

(54)

Translator's Note? The following names and information were

obtained from a mimeographed book concerning relipe carrera..

the book does not provide any specific information as to the

circumstances under which Felipe Carrera was either investigated

or arrested, but seems to be concerned with a detailed descri

tion of the papers, publications, correspondence and other

material that were foun

in the possessies of Felipe Carrera.S

ALD-INFORMATION CÓNTAINED

Carreras

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Concerning the subject himself,

the book states: 51W

EXCEPIWAERI SHOWN

"Felipe Carrera, a Venezuelan national, was born on

February 3, 1926. He industriously worked at the preparation

and shipping of propaganda material advocating revolution in

Latin America, specifically in Venezuela.

He duplicated

OTHERWISE

sent out such

magazines and bulletins as "Latin America,"

" as wel

As previously stated, the book in question pays a

great deal of attention to describing the material impoundeo

ifforts have been made to list all the names mentioned in the

various publications, pieces of correspondence and the like.S

For example, concerning

• "Latin American"

magazine the list of directors and contributors appearing

in

the Oldest issue seized (January, 1962) is as follows:

Hamburg

aten anera

Postfach (Post Office Box) 8450,

Germany

#Editor-in-

Jose Bernedo, Altenbekenner Damm

64,

Honnover;

Germany

Coordinator

(Press information)

Steilshoperstrasse 129;

Rau

Hamburgs

Germany. (ST

Lapaca,

Locat

Contributors

respondents XiS

Munich: H. Vasguez,

Stuttgart:

O. Wiranda, Rosenbergstrasse 225

Aachen:

A. Guzman, Korneliusstrasses 14AN 20 19661

Paris:

M. Zapata, 12, rue de Lille, VII

London:

A. Galvez, 51, Pember Road NW..

Switzerland: F. Carrera, 39,

avenue de Morges, Lausannels

5068 SEN

SUMMARIZED BY:

RAFFAELE A. VACCARI: ba

SO NETY 6)

dek

• Classited ty SINS

Laug

DocId: 32303625

Page 2

---

## Page 3

teleaset

natet the

DATE: 11-14-2017

ote)

SECRET

(5)-

Chinese Embassy in

Bern, Switzerland.

It was in correspondence with .F. Carrera.

As a matter of fact, Carrera submitted

reports on his activities on behalf of the

Venezuelan Communist Party and of the

National Liberation Front of Venezuela for

three years and requested payment of the

amounts of money which the Embassy had

promised hit to cover the expegses

incurred

by Carrera in his activities.

Miguel

A

Asturias.

He is a member of the Honor Committee of

see May-June 1964 11st).

Tatia seria need niblised by Cartera

Marxist National Alonguard for Reason and Force," post office

Chile.

This 1s an *

organization which published a revolutionary

"pamphlet in Santiago, Chile, in December, 1960(S

Alberto Baxo,

He wrote: "My Contribution to

Hay na, an Revolutioa, Havana, January, 1960,

57 pages.S

Simone

de

Beauvoir

MrS Paris"

she

Together with Jean-Paul Sartre

was the addressee of a letter signed by

Julio Escalona, President of the Federation

of University Centers, Caracas, Jose

Rafael Zanoni, Secretary General of FCU

(Federation of University Centers), and

Adolfo Herrera, Under Secretary General

of the same organization.

In this letter,

the addressees were urged to publicly

express their advocacy of an amnesty of

political prisoners in Venezuela.

In view

of the fact that Carrera, in his "Kion Your

Venezuela" publication mentions the name

of Mrs. de Beauvoir, along with other names,

"as one of the illustrious persons who have

expressed their sympathy with the campaign

I a movement for amnesty...." It is to be

pelleved that she granted

leaders of

the

the request of the

Federation of University

Centers.

SECRET

DocId: 32303625 Page 3

---

