# docid-32324611

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90030-10066

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

166-4028-12

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 45874 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 02/16/1970

PAGES: 73

SUBJECTS :

MAURICE MEDLEVINE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HW 45874 DocId: 32324611 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 12-19-67)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING.OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

LOS ANGELES

TITLE OF CASE

LOS ANGELES

2/16/70

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

10/20/69 - 2/10/70

TYPED BY-

MAURICE MEDLEVINE, aka;

ET AL;

EMIL TUCKER - VICTIM

WAYNE W.

HILL

CHARACTER OF CASE

f'sc

ITAR - EXTORTION;

ITSP

REFERENCE:

Report of SA WAYNE W. HILL dated 10/20/69,

at Los

Angeles.

P

ADMINISTRATIVE

On 2/5/70, Assistant U.S. Attorney DAVID R. NISSEN,

Chief, Office

• of Special

Prosecutions,

U.S. Attorney's Office,

Los Angeles, advised that

Grand Jury (FGJ 1n

testified before, a Federal

testified concerning

JEK Law 10(a\2

CONVIC.

AUTO.

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

NONE

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT-

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

MYEs

NO

YES

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

166-

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

4028-12

REC- 29

USA,

LOS

Angeles

(ATTN: Office of

Special Prosecutions)87 FEB 24 1970

2 - Los Angeles: (166-1875)

MINE

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

58 MAR 2

STAY SET,

CC, AAG,

Organized

Criminal Division,

frime &

Racketeering Section

670

1970

GPO: 1968 0 - 390-885

COVER PAGE

NH 45874 DocId: 32324611

Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 166-1875

JFK. Law 10(a)2

The FGJ testimony will be reviewed

by the Los Angeles Office.

Assistant U. S.

Attorney

NISSEN stated that the FGJ was very interested in this matter,

and that subsequent hearings would be held.

He said, however;

completion of trials he has scheduled in U. S. District

Court, Los Angeles, involving MAURICE FRIEDMAN on 2/17/70,

and T. W. RICHARDSON on 3/3/70. Both of these

trials are

an outgrowth of the Friars Club case

KENNETH BATES, who is mentioned in the details

of this report, is a former CI of the Los Angeles Office.

On 7/16/69, LA 5040-C-TE called and advised SA

AMEDEE O. RICHARDS, JR. that he had been contacted by LEO

OGUL and that OGUL

told him that he had $45,000 worth

of stock and was interested to know if the informant might

be able to dispose of the stock. Informant stated that he

advised OGUL that he would have to see the stock and show it to

some people, and oGUL agreed to bring this stock by the

informant's office:

.B=

COVER PAGE

166-4028-2

NW 45874 DooId: 32324611 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA 166-1875

On the afternoon of 7/16/69, informant advised

that OGUL had come to his office and left the stock with

him,

and that he would meet with the contacting Agent at

8:00 a.m., on

7/17/69; so that this office could quickly get

copies.of

the stocks.

on 7/17/69, Informant made available, through the

contacting Agent, 30 stock certificates numbered from NC21505 through

NC21534.

Each stock certificate represented one hundred shares

of common stock of Sunasco, Incorporated.

The face of these

stock indicated that the owner of this stock was Mrs. SUSAN

SALTI. According to the reverse side of the certificates,

these shares had been transferred from Mrs. SUSAN SALTI

to an ALEX DI LORENZO, JR., 405 Lexington Avenue, New York

City, or CARL KRUEGER, Box 935, Beverly Hills, California.

Also furnished by the informant was the origin 1

of a letter from CARL KRUEGER to Mr. LEO OGUL, Suite 1510-6380,

Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles, California.

This letter dated 7/2/69, was on the letterhead

of Galaxy International Productions, Incorporated, and was

a certification that KRUEGER was the second owner under

assignment of $3,000 worth of shares of Sunasco, Incorporated,

common stock.

This letter reflected that the name of the company

had been changed to Scientific Resources Corporation, and 1s

listed on the New York Stock Exchange.

This letter also

authorized OGUL as the agent in the sale of the stock.

The Informant also furnished a copy of a letter allegedly

written by ALEX DI LORENZO to. CARL KRUEGER dated 1/23/69.

This letter indicated that DI LORENZO was making a personal

investment in the movie production of KRUEGER, and the Sunasco

shares were a part payment for a share of the movie production

of KRUEGER. Also included were blank stock assignments:

purportedly signed by ALEX DI LORENZO and CARL KRUEGER.

Informant stated that on 7/16/69, OGUL brought

KRUEGER to his office and introduced him as a foreign

movie producer.

KRUEGER claimed to have residuals due.

him from several movie productions, but also claimed to need

cash, and requested informant to loan him a thousand dollars.

Informant refused and OGUL left the stock with informant

166-4028-12

_COTTER PACE

NW 45874 DooId: 32324611 Page 4

---

## Page 5

IA 166-1875

to determine

for KRUEGER.

LEADS

if informant. could get rid of the stock

LOS ANGELES

contact with Assistant U

the FGJ inquiry into this matter.

(2) Will consider interviewing KENNETH BATES,

RICHARD SHERILL, and CARL KRUEGER.

D*-

COVER PAGE

166-4028-12

174 45874

DocId: 32324611

Page 5

---

