# docid-32276731

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/5/2016

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

NARA

176-10030-10260

RECORD SERIES :

RALPH A. DUNGAN PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE;

BLIND MEMO

DATE: 01/29/1964

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

MEMO

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

From the Papers of Ralph A. Dungan: Correspondence, 1/64, Box 4, Item 1

v9.1

HH 49061 DocId: 32276731

Page 1

44

---

## Page 2

29 Jamary 1964

SUBVECT:

Presence it Seirador Diaz Tessoa 1a Marloo Around 22

Noresber 1963

1. Das Verzos, the source of Jone I, Lenags's inforzation tbat

the labra Ambassador to Hardeo had had a long confereace vita loo

CHAi at a rastantant retaido Modeo City, turns out to de a bigaly

mrallabie socise, rita a reputation for fabrication. He did go to

Medic, tha Quatesals asl MIcäragle, learlag Med 18 Horeber 1963.

¡s tas to attend a comerase in Mardes al the TIOPP (Poderacion

Interzaciansi de Organizaciones de Periodistes Protestonelos) boturer

18 ded 29 MorecasI 1963.

2. The IBI bos qestioned Dlas Verson about ble story, le

Bald that S1iTia DUrez, LineX of the Cabes commlate 1I Medco CIty,

took ine OStliT to the catallo lays Restaurast seer Curpultoped Park

whare they ast tan Jabre ARbassador Joaquis Harrander Nores and that

Hertander Arsar tOUk ISMAiD IT S 1008 I11s 1a bla deT no Lo coald

talk. Daz VarIce Mali tier, ble sourca for thie infarzation vai

Medias Jarrailat, Boredo Barell Havarro, editorsallet for the

Large conservative dally Buelala, but ten the FBI abad Barall

about 1t he nald that Dlas Tartar had sade it all 1p. Barall seld 20

for sotaine beyond the latt test OsWAlD had bows la Herdeo, had

risited the liber BarRasy and talled to B12T1& Duran.

3.

A senior FBI atticlai 1I Hardco, Cert Andorsca, tald out

Station miot that, be loer Dias VArson well then they vero bots 1n

Harras asd that, Dias TeTSI vas noiod for "reparta begod os his

Istaltite seailaga." He reely reported facts.

Ho this sneld to dlasradit confletely the story that OBVALO bed

hal a 1cag canistance ulta tha Cubes Ambassador 1n Hardoo Olty.

SA K

-SECRET

Declassified under the provisions

of the JFK Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (PL102-526)

SAMAD MARADIOS (R/EN)

1N 49061 • D0010:32276731 Page 2

---

