# docid-32289208

## Page 1

[Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 199D(14 US2:2017 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10200-10484

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2914-101

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/27/1961

1

GM, ASSOC, RES, GAMBLER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

15

v9.1

DocId: 32289208

Page 1

...

---

## Page 2

Released under the Pohn F." Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: (Flek-14+2017

FBI

Date:

3/27/61

Transmit the following in

A IRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2914) (92-2918)

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-236) (92-228)

GABRIEL

AR

MANNARINO, aka

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka

AR

on 3/27/61 PG 615-C advised SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III, as fOllowS:

GABRIEL MANNARINO returned

to Florida on the evening of 3/23/61,

reason unknown.

RALPH L. THOMAS, Who lives

at 3222 Leechburg Rd., New Kensington,

Pa., is commonly known as "SNIFF-SNIFF' due to his habitual

nasal sounds.

He was at one time employed at the Aluminum

Company of America plant in New Kensington but now he operates

a midget car racing track near the Camp Joan, Pa., drive-in

theater.

He is a gambler and is friendly with KELLY MANNARINO®

It is rumored in New Kensington that the large quantity of

Kensington Ware (aluminum pots, pans and utensils) he took

to Florida

was "hot."

Pittsburgh will contact Security Officer, ALCOA, New Kensington,

to see if any aluminum ware has been stolen in quantity.

Miami will verify GABRIEL MANNARINO's presence in Florida,

checking first at his Surfside, Fla., residence.

BOTH SUBJECTS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

Bureau

Miami (92-143)

3 - Pittsburgh

(1 137-941)

TGF/gb

(11)

REC- 73

92-2914-101

MAR 29

1351

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

Approved

BCB

& APR gecidgfrent in Charge

Sent

M

Per

DocId: 32289208 Page 2

---

