# docid-32555389

## Page 1

report For:n

PT-78 (6-12-55)

FEDERAL SUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

ARTICHY JOSEPE ACCARDO, aka;

GUSLALEX, aka;

FRANK FERBARO, AkA;

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka;

MURRAY LLEVELYN HUMPHREYS, aKA

throatstet

DATE

7/29/60

REPORT MADE BY

MARSHALL B. RUTLAID

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/26 - 7/20/60

ANTI - RACKSTEERING

TYPID EY

888

FEFERENCE: Report of SA RALPH B. HILL, JR., dated 5/26/60 at Chicago.

-P-

THIS REPORT IS NOT TO BE DISSENINATED

This report is a consolidation of investigation concerning

the five captioned hoodlums of the Chicago Offico.

The great

majority of the information contained in this report w1l1 be

Included in the cover section inasuuch as nost of this was obtained

fron CG 6343-C*, & highly sensitive source.

LEAD

CHICAGO

report investigation

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS:

Will continue to conduct and

concerning the background and activities of

Chicago hoodluas ANTHONY ACCARDO, GUS ALEX, FRANK FERRARO, SAN

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGEN

IN CHARGI

COPIES MADE:

DO NOT WRITH IN SPACES BELOW

See Cover Page B for coples

10316.

NOT RECORDED

149 AUG 1: 1960

COVER PAGE

-

-

ORTGINAL

NW 45679 DocId: 32555389 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CG 92-795

ALEX:

+if

HUMPHREYS:

ALEX:

HUMPHREYS:

ALEX:

HUMPHREYS:

I'll talk to him and have

him go to JOE and

let JOE send him in.

OT .

to the lawyer,

but

I could send him

I'm just trying to

avoid that question 11 it came up.

I don't think it will, but 1t's good.

We got to

get

another witness.

Another one!

We got to get

sIot

of then!

And we got.

to get them before they get then.

Yean.

You know who we could get to be a

witness?

Ho'd be a holl of & witness.

ALEX:

Who?

HUMPHREYS:

CLAIR.

The reference of alld to monaghan is probably a

reference to ROBERT I. MONAGHAN, aN Assistant United States

Attorney in Chicago.

The reference

to CLINTON

is a reference

to

STANFORD CLINTON, who is an attorney in Chicago,

and who is one of the attorneys representing ANTHONY ACCARDO in

his pending trial.

It is obvious

that the conversation concerns

the trial of ACCArDo, who has beer indicted for fraudulently

charging expenses for the use of his automobile which he claims

he used to sell "Foxhead Fourhundred" beer for the Premium

Beer sales, Incorporated.

It is

apparent that ALEX and

HUMPHREYS are concerned

with linding witnesses

who will back

up ACCARDO's claim that he used the car during the course

of selling "Foxhead Fourhundred."

The Yorkshire

referred to is believed to be the

Yorkshire Roon Restaurant located

at 2842 North Sheridan Road

in Chicago.

The reference

to STIVE by ALEX midway in the conversation

is probably & reference

tO STEVE DE KOSTA. It is noted

that DE KOSTA is ostensibly the ower and manager of the Huckster's

Restaurant in Chicago.

According to PCI TURA SATANA, a

burlesque dancer, who is intimately friendly with HENRY SUSK

and also well acquainted "ith GUS ALEX, the Huckster's is operated

COVER PACE

=A-8-

NW 45679 DocId: 32555389 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG

92-795

This again is in reference

to

the trouble presently

going on

in the International Brotherhood of Electrical

Workers, Local 134 in Chicago,

for which lOCal LOVIE CELANO is

& business agent.

Recently, other nenbers of the local have

been making attempts

to rid

the local of

CELAND, based on the

foct that his brother, JInN, is an associate of hoodlums in

the Chicago area.

The reference to FRANK DARLING referred to

business managor of another local of the International

Brotherhood of Electrical lorkers in Chicago, who has a

rontation that

he is opposed to hoodlums comected with

organired crime

1n

Caicago.

VI. ASSOCIATES

on July 8, 1960, CG 6343-C* advised that MURRAY

HUPERS&S made contact with JOSEPH I. BULGER who is an

attorney with offices

188 west Randolph Street in Chicago.

He is Lurther

& Republican politician of

sone standing and

18 former mayor of Meltose

Park, Illinois.

On July 12, 1960, MURRAY HUMPHREYS, JOSEPH BULGER,

RALPH PIERCE, and LES KRUSE were Obserred having lunch together

In the restaurant in the basement of the Pittsfield Building,

155 East Washington Street, Chicago, LITinois.

During this

meeting,

the agents overheard parts

of the conversation, which

indicated that BulGEr was attempting to gain some money

back gambling interests in Las Vegas, Nevada.

This meeting was

observed by agents VINCENT L. INSERRA, JOHN W. ROBERTS, WILLIAN

F. ROEMER,

and MarSHAlL E. RUTLAND of

the Chicago office.

VII. LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

SAM GIANCANA

On July 6, 1960,

information in the past,

CG

6271-S, who has furnished reliable

orally advised SA WILLIAM R. CATHEY of

the Chicago Office

that

MAURICE rAN Is the attorney representing

the Michigan Avenue

Nations Band, Chicago, ILlinois, in

connection with reorganization of

the old Southrose Bank and

"Trust Company of Chicago, which figured in

the wurder of LEON

MARCUS iN 1956.

according to the informant, the southuore

Bank and Trust Company has been renamed the Cuarranty Bank

and Trust Company and an individual by the name of DLATON,

18 the head of the Dalton Finance Company of Washington, D.C.

COVER PAGE

-A-28-

NW

45679

DocId: 32555389

Page

3

---

## Page 4

CG

92-795

borrowed

buy into

and southore Bank and trust Company.

Michigan Aveme National Bank to

As a result

of his bying into

bank,

, he became

the Chairman

of the

Board of Directors

and innediately began engaging in & series

of "shady

"shady

transactions."

According to the informant,

these

transactions" vere the

Loan of monies

to local hoodlu

elements

Chicago

ares without proper collateral.

Further,

according

to the informant, the loan,

which as granted DALTON

by the Michigan Avene Bank was guaranteed by an individual by

name of stANt, "hots comected with the bureau of the

Budget (probably MATRICE SIANS, Director of the Bureau of the

Budget:

A suit is presently being filed against DALTON because

of his "shady transactions."

According to the intormant, & istent unclained secount

in the

smount of $100,000 comosed o1 cas

and negotiable

securitios is maintained at the

Soutkuore Bank and Trust

Company.

account was placed with the southmore Bank

many years ago ass "kitty" for the crime syndicate in the

Chicago

An there is sone dispute over the owershig

of this account and the

fact that it has not been clained, the

is presently for sale by the bauk for $20,000.

According

to the intorant, no buyers are available, simply

because they

will be innediatoly exterminated by the crime syndicate should

they attempt to purchase

this

account.

According

the informant,

the late LEON MARCUS

attenpted

to buy this

scount and was murdered by the syndicate.

It is

to be noted that at the time of Marcus' desth, & slip of

the rotation $100

VILI MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION

ANTHONY ACCARDO

6241-C adrised ou

June

9, 1960, that ANTHONY

ACCARDO, 218

wife and daughter

spent

the evening at the Imperial

House on Fast Walton

Street in

Chicago on June 3, 1960.

ACCARDO

was observed driving a 1959 or 1960 Pontiac station wagon.

While ACCARDO waS 1n

front of the Imperial House, & unit of

the Chieago Police Intelligence Unit passed but did not

recognize ACCARDO.

He turned to the informant and said, "look

at the screws."

COVER PAGE

- A -29-

NW 45679 DocId: 32555389 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-795

On July 19, 1960,

CG

6343-08

advised that FRANK

FERRARO, MURRAY HUMPHREYS,

GODPREY,

and BUTCH LADON visited

JIMMY CHIANO during the course of the

FERRARO,

conversation

with

SCOT BUCH LADON CONCY EL

during &

unknow mitter, became extremely angry with these two persons

and during

course of his tirade,

closer

CHUCK

accused LADoN of being

ENGLISE then to binell and GUSSIE ALEX,

"for

whom he

is

& runner.

FERRARO

cursed

shouted

for

ther

to

leave

the

both individuals and

soon, that be wanted nothing

MOre

to

do

with

them.

July

THEIS,

Jeffrey

Avenue

FERRARO.

the average

and 1s know

week.

1960, PCT

advised that JANE

Sumer

set restaurant,

1700 South

Chicago,

Illinois, is the girl

Iriend" of FRANK

further advised that FERRARO CALlS THEIS ON

or three

times &

week

at the restaurant

at least

once

or twice every

OTHER 4

ADHINISTRATIVS

SAB RALPH B. HILl, SR., JOHN

RUTI AND.

Of FRANK FERRARO Conductod on July 7,

warconducted by

W. ROBERTS, ANd MARSHALL E:

COVER, PAGE

-A-30-

NW 45679 DocId: 32555389 Page 5

---

## Page 6

oport For

D-78 (8-12-5

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

ANTHONY JOSEPH ACCARDO, Aka.;

GUS ALBAL AKa. ;

FRANK FEBRARO

AKa

SAMUEL N. GIANCANA,

Aka.;

MURRAY LLEWELYN HUMPHREYS, Aka.

DATI

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/26/60

3/17 - 5/23/60

REPORT MADE BY

RALPH R. HILI

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETRERING

Jus-

Alex

REFERENCE: Report of SA MILLIAM F. ROEMER datod 4/6/60

at Chicago.

TYPED SY

ntb

THIS REPORT IS NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED.

This report is a consolidation of investigation concern-

ing the five captioned hoodlums of the Chicago Office. The great

majority of the information contained in this report will be

included in the cover section inasnuch as nost of this was obtained

fron CG 6343-C*, a highly sensitive source.

LEAD

CHICAGO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. Will continue to conduct and report

investigation concerning the background and activities of Chicago

hOodlums ANTHONY ACCARDO, GUS ALEX, FRANK FERRARO, SAM GIANCANA, and

PECIAL AGEN

N CHARG

42-3182

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

79

See Cover Page i for coples

170 M77 31 1960

ORIGINAL COPY FILED IN

-

-

COVER PAGE

PROPERTY OF FES ThiNG araggy by ho el, and neither it nor it conlont are to be distributed outride the agency to which anod.

NW 45679 DocId: 32555389 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 92-795

RRH: plb

SAVARESE :

He knows. It should mean that everything is

all right. But he talked to some other

fellow there.

About a month ago.

And

I know we don't like this guy so I spoke to

VITO and told him I might have to make a trip.

He said whenever

you're ready.

I didn't

want to make it too soon, Because then a

lot of time lapses.. I'd rather make it

possibie.

as close as possible. So that's about

FERRARO:

OK GEORGIE.

It is noted that FERRARO referred to SAVARESE as

GEORGIE, however, GEORGIE is in all probability a common

nickname used by FERRARO in his relationship with SAVARESE.

SAVARESE's reference to VITO is unknown; however, the possibility

exists that this may be VITO GENOVESE, New York top hoodlum.

DOMINIC "HUNK" GALIANO

Information pertaining to GALIANO is furnished else-

where in this report under Las Vegas Gambling Interests section.

GALIANO who, until recently, was relatively unknown in crime

syndicate circles is, according to CG 6272-C, a rising hoodlum

on Chicago's north side who may possibly be replacing in stature

JIMMY ALLEGRETTI and JOSEPH DI VARCO.

FRANK "SKID" CARUSO

CARUSO is an old-time, well-known Syndicate gambling

representative of Chicago's south side.

CG 6343-C* advised

on April 5, 1960, that FRANK FERRARO and CARUSO had a shört

meeting during which the following was discussed:

CARUSO:

Hello FRANKIE®

I just come in to drop

something. The first District. They beat

the (obscene) out of him.

FERRARO:

CARUSO:

For what.

Nothing. He was at the Brass Rail.

COVER PAGE

A-171

NW 45679 DocId: 32555389 Page 7

---

