# docid-32338970

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/13/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90143-10388

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-370750-142

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

LA

. TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 01/28/1949

• PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32338970

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

520-78

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Готта Ка 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATEO AT

RIPORT MADE AT

LOS ANGELES

LOS ANGELES

DATE WHINI MADE

1/28/Li9

FILE No.

LA 100-21198

PERIOD POr

WHICH MADE /48 :

1/527/19.

ATPORT MADE BY

BERNARR M. PTACEK

HOR

TITLE

CHARAGHER OF CAL

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON, W.2.80,

Jacob Levy, Jack Lawson.

INTERNAL SECURITY-C

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

on 11/8/48 the U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear LA#SON's con-

tenpt case prior to the case revier by U. S. Court of Appeals.

anssious to get a job in the motion picture studios as it would be a

"tremendous victory" if he could get a writing. job. LAWSOlls forthcoming

Agent a Do thens

, book now in the hands of the publishers. LySON's activities in A.S.P.

Subject considers himself most qualified person in Hollywood to

LES GOLDSLITH!, National Director of C.R.C.

had dinner with LAWSON on his recent trip to los Angeles. Subject later

spolie at C.R.C. Conference.

He spoke on California Labor School Conference

on topic "History of Democratic Thought in' America.". Dr. PHILLIP FONER of

the Ner. York Jefferson School of Social Science spoke on the same California

Labor School Conference and resided at LAYSON's home while in Los Angeles.

At election time subject commented that j. FARNELL THOMAS may be off the

House Committee on Un-American Activities and further commented that RANKIN

will replace him.

This is desirable, according to the subject, as "we have

cooked up a lot of stuff regarding him." Contribution to I.P.P. set out.".

On 1/31/49 LAMSON M1l1 start series of six lectures sponsored by the A.S.P.r:

Council on "A New Approach to American History and Our Cultural Heritage."

Announcement of above inclosed with this report.

REFERENCE:

Bureau File 102-2449.

Report of SA BERNARR I. PACEK, LOS Angeles, 9/17/48.

* ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

SPECIAL NORAT

ІН СНАМИ

DO NOT WRITE IN THESI SPACKE

COPUS OF THIS REFORT

baBureau (Encis-)

2-New Yor

3-Los Angeles

100-570750-147

Ho 2499-140

Guy sense

D. S, CO4 TRAMLAT PRINTINO OFFICE

1A-11001

ocId:32338970

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ZA 100-21198

CNDI LA J0'1 advised that to the best of his Knowledge LAWSON

has occupied his time writing a book or books on his omn initiative.

LAWSON said it mould be a tremendous victory if he could get hired.

A JO-I advised that JACK IANSON 1s writing a book and that

he was employing JANEL STEVENSON and EDITH DIAMOND to type some of t he

material. In this connection los Angeles I-l reported on October 12, 1948

that a large husky man who was lame in the right leg appeared at the home

Of EDITH DIAMOND in Sherman Oaks, California. This nerson drove a Ford

car bearing 19L8 California license plate #71 V 273. The records of the

Division of Motor Vehicles for the State of California reflected that the

above mentioned automobile license is assigned to JOHN HOWARD LAWSON.

Los Angele, I-l specifically stated that JoHN HOwARD lAwsoN

entered the house at 15120 Hesby Street, Sherman Oaks.

The Los Angeles

telephone directory reflects that this is the home of MUNI DIAMOND and

EDITH DIAMOND.

CNDI Live yest has advised that both MUNI and EDITH DIAMOND

are members of the los Angeles County Cormunist Party,

CNDI LA J0-1 advised on October 17, 1948 that LAWSON asked R.B.

XROBERT (movie producer), 1052 North Carroll Drive, Los Angeles, California,

to get a letter for him permitting him to use excerpts from the movie soript

BODY AND SOUL.

IA"SON requested Mr. ROBERI to send the letter of authorizat

101 to MARiORIE pAYER, C/O G. PAPUTNaD & Sons Co-pany, to W. 45th Street, i

New York City.

CHDI LA" JO-1 has advised that LAWSON's new book is being

published by the Putnam Company. In this connection it should be noted

that the title of lAWSON's forthcoming book has not been announced in Los

Angeles to date.

CH'DI LA JO-1 on November 3, 1948 advised that SUE LAWSON, wife

of the subject, said thet HERTh KERKVITZ and LOLAARRIS were reading th

manuscripts of LAWSON's new book.. Both were very enthisiastic in praise

of the book.

XIRTS, SCIENCES AND FROPESSIONS COUNCIL

CNDI LA JO-1 advised on November 15, 1948 that PHILIP STEVENSON

advised LAwSON that he was ready to make out a report ánd desired LAWSON's

advice. LAWSON told STEVENSON to make the renort up by topics and each

topic should not contain too much historical background. LAWSON stated

the article was for papers published by the International Workers Order

whose readers were already familiar with the background.

LAWSON said to

-Ц -

DocId: 32338970

Page 3

Treat as Original

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE : 11-14-2017

Is 100-21198

"THE LOYALTY' OATHS which demand that government employees con-

form to a prescribed opinion or be fired from their jobs-which defines.

loyalty on the basis of whether you ever opposed such things as a Franct

Spain or a lynching in the South.

"THE ILFT-HARtLEY ACt which denies the American worker the free-

dom to organize as he chooses.

ITHE INDICTVENTS of the Coumunist Party officials in New York

simply because they are Connunists despite the fact that the Suprene Court

bas ruled this is no crime.

"THE DISCRIMINATION being practiced against Negroes, Mexicans

and other minorities through denial of their right to vote, lynchings,

police brutality and segregation.

"THE GRIND JURY HE RINGS which deny freedom of speech--the right

to choose when and where one will speak or be silent regarding his political

belief or association."

This hand bill was signed by HERBERT BIBERMAN and JOHN HOWARD

#SON who were described as tro of the Hollywood victims of the Un-american

Connittee. The bill was signed by numerous other persons, many of whom are

mown to be menbers of the communist Party in Los Angeles. ANDI TATJO-1

advised on December 17, 1948 that IRISTNOBLE planned to meet with JOHN

HOWARD LA"SON on that date. It would be noted that NOBLE was subpoenaed "

by a Federal Grind Jury In Los Angeles on Nnvember 25, 1948 to testify in

connection with loyalty hearings conducted in Los ngeles. IRIS NOBLE 18

a member of the Communist Party, according to CNDI LA 2619.

CALIFORNIA LABOR SCHOOL

The Daily PEOPLES ""ORLD for Monday, January 3, 1919 stated as.

followg:

full schedule of addressed, conferences and receptions for

Dr. PHILLIR FONER, distinguished historian, and writer, was released today

by the california Labor School.

Dr. FONER will visit Los Angeles on

January 7, 8 and 9, 1949. One of the founders of the Jefferson School

of Social Sciences in New York and a leading Marxist authority on the

American Labor Movement, Dr. FONER, Till analyze and discuss past and

present developments in the history of the United States Trade Unionism.

His first appearance will be at the Embassy iuditorium, South Hall, Friday

January ?, 1949." JOHN HOARD LATSON, lecturer and authority, shared

the platform with him, discussing "History of Democratic Thought in Ineríca."

- 11 -

DocId: 32338970 Page 4

Treat as original

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

I's 200-21198

On December 29, 1948 JiCK LTSON advised CNDI LA Ju 1 that LESTER

COLE was gring to New York to fill engagements arranged by HANNAH (DORNER)

in New York.

CONTRIBUTES TO INDEPENDENT

PROGRESSIVE PARTY

The referenced report reflects that on Sunday, August 29, 1948

JOHN HOURD LATSON held an outdoor party at his residence 9354 Bonnet, San

Farnando betwean the hours of one and seven P.M. The proceeds were to be

given to the Independent Progressive Party.

IA T-4 stated that he attended an I.P.P. Party held at the home

•S BURLIVES, 14716 Nordhoff Street, Van Nuye, California from four to

seven P.l!., on September 11, 1948. About 35 people were in attendance at

this meeting. JOHN HORARD LISON spoke regarding Civil Rights, Racial

Discrimination, Freedom of Speech and eommunication in all fields. He

stated that the reactinnaries were trying to cripple and suppres:

coumunicatin between and news about the Peoples Movement." He statec

that fear was preventing people from supporting WALlACE openly, but that

if "we" carry on openly and fearlessly that even 1f MhLLACE lost In 1948,

that "we" should sweep the country in 152, mith the support of those now

too fearful or pessimestic. Mork am money and enthusiasm are the weapons

of the people against the war. Oppression and chaos, born of lies. Hé

stated that the United States and Festern Europe are falling into Fascisn.

Los ingeles I-l fernished Information concerning contributors to

the 1948 campaign of REUBEN BOROUGH, candidate for Congress from the 20th

Congressional District on the Independent Progressive Party. The infornant

stated that JOHN HOWARD LAWSON contributed $100.00. In this connection,

CNDI Li 1138 stated that REUBEN BOROUGH was a Cormunist Party line follower

and has been so for many years.

MASSES AND MAIN STREAM

On September 27, 1948 CNDF D80-1 advised that JOHN HOWARD

INSON and CHARLES GLENN were discussing proposed material for the magazine

MISSES and WIN STREAM." -It should be noted that the reference report

reflects Information regarding an article written by LHON in this magazine.

The informant was of the opinion that GLENN had written an article for "MASSES

and NAIN STRE'M." LAWSON commented to GLENN the political situation wasn't

tied up closely enough with the rest of the article; for instance, LAWSON

said, concerning the Negroes in the radio part. LAWSON told GLENN that he

should stress the economic control in advertising, etc. GLUNN was advised

by LiSON that there was a lot of revealing infornation about the radio

Industry that could be used.

CHARLES GLENN 1s a member of the Communist

Party, according to CNDI LA 2900.

-14-

DocId: 32338970 Page 5

Treat as Original

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: -11-14-2017

I4 200-21198

MEETINGS ATTENDED

Based on Information received from CHUECD-54, SA FRED G.

DUPUIS conducted

a surveillance at 320 South Sherbourne in Los Angeles on

the evening of sugust 25, 1948.

According to the informant, the meeting

was arranged by lit. SIDNEL/SERNSTEIN with alias SID/BENSON, although the

Informant did not know the exact purpose of the meeting.

SA DUPUIS

observed automobiles bearing California licenses 1 R 8528; 67 D 70L; 6 C

3664.

The Division of Motor Vehicles reflects that 1 R 8528 1s regis-

tered not at are to ta go tele. she is a member of

67 D 704 1s registered to JOHN HOWARD LAWSON, 9354 Bonnet Avenúe,

San Fernando, who is a member of the Cornunist Party, according to CNDI I

2900.

6 C 3364 1s registered to LEONA CHAMBERLAIN, 437 W. 48th Street,

who is a member of the Communist Party, according to ENDI In 2900.

CNDI LA CD-51 reported that a meeting was scheduled at the home

Of ALBERT !LITZ, 6526 Lindenhurst, for the evening of September 20, 1948

on behalf of the "Hollyrood 10", that is the ten men who were indicted for

contempt of Congress as an outgrowth of the investigation by the House wy

American ictivities Committee.

Accordingly, SA E. BRUCE RYDER and FRED

G. DUPUIS, comucted a surveillance at the MALTZ residence and observed

numerous persons in attenlance who, accoming to informants, are members

of the Communist Party.

The full list of those in attendance will be

found in L.:, 100-21198-367. The agents conucting the surveillance

observed JOHN HOWARD LINSON in attendance at this meeting.

CNDI L4 J0-1 advised on December 15, 1948 thaty IRRY'ROLFE of

the Irts, Sciences and Professions told ITSON that MALE DISNEY had

repudiated the black list and was dropping proceedings against any of the

"Hollywood 10." LySON said he would call a meeting at his house in

regard to DISNEY's action. ROLFE said that this was the first local aid

they'd had and they must act quickly to take advantage of it and release

the news to the press. LAWSON said, "I'll call PhUL JARRICO and tell him,

1t's wonderful!"

In this connection LARRY ROLFE and PAUL JARRICO are both

members of the Comminist Party in Los Angeles, according to CNDI LA 2900.

On September IL, 1948, SiS JULIAN BLODGETT and ERNEST J. VAN

LOON were advised by CNDI LA 2718 that approximately a week or ten days

previous ly DALTON TRUMBO, in the presence of JOHN HOMARD LARSON, approached

a friend of hers who has known TRUMBO for years and asked this friend

- 15 -

DocId: 32338970

Page 6

Great as trizine

---

