# docid-32340872

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10221-10265

RECORD_SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR-SEE TITLE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE: CR 134-17720-13X CHANGE TO CR 202-8215-13X

DATE: 11/29/1976

PAGES: 10

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

08/17/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

INC LHM, 2 ADMIN PAGES

DocId: 32340872

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John' F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11- JATIONAL FORM NO. 10

JULY 1973 EDITION

GSA FPMR (61 CFR) 101-1

UNITED: STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum

Rau

ARE INPORA FO COLD ENTAL

CONTO M

HERZIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCECT WILDE SHOWN

CHERWISE

*, DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

11/29/76

OM

SAC, MIAMI&

2-4761

SUBJECT:

ROBERTO

ARBALLO DIAZ CArEd 1:317

ARAU

Miami)

Re Bureau airtel dated 9/1/76(u)

ATi.

ArTi

AD:

SLIP(S

DATE

5668-Stop ride 21

1(6)

CLASSIFIED BY: 56685

(c,d

REASON:

CLASSIFY (

DS

JFK

MAC-CD; ISS; 6CS; STATE; CIA

No 120

Enclosed are.

captioned as abovel even copies of an LHM, dated and

Copies

are being disseminated Locally,

to

INS and CIA

CLASSINED AND

MM T-1 is

IMM

(4086-04 K5)

MM T-2 is

MM 1337-S.

MM T-3 is MM 4243-PCI.

LEADS

EXTENDE

FY

1TĐA

TENSION

DATE oF

GECLASSIFICATIC

FOR

RIMITIO

MIAMI

At Miami, Florida:

Will

continue

of the subject

(4)

APPROPRTATE AGENCIES

AND FIEL

OFFICES

ADVISED

ROUTING

SLIP (

DATE

202-8215-13

to follow

and

Crities

1,326

Classified by

Deglasily On: DADR

RECT 3417720-1371

= 2165-

TUB

CERICATON AND/OR

2- Bureau (RM) (Enc. 7)

• T MORAN DEC 6 1976

1 - Miami

* INS HUGENT. EXCEPT FOR BRAdLETS

RJD :ml1

Im 6-23-97

(3)

/ - copies made

4/25/78 JS0/j19

Bosch

for zovasnai

TACHO DY

ESCA TO 3/14/28 POQUGEE:

6-

31-9

1LI0 402-127290.

Buy W.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

CONFANTIAL

57 JANO

DocId: 32340872

1977

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released. mmer

DATE:

Tolu

Kennedy AssassinatIon Recorts cortect

VITED STATES DEPARTMENT JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami, Florida

November 29, 1976

Filo No 2-47616

RE:

BOBERTO CARBALLO DIAZ

NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA

GONFIDENTIAL

DECLASSIVIED

ON &

ROBERTO CARBALLO DIAZ, a Cuban exile, in 1968,

moved Irom san Juan, puerto Rico to Miami, ELorida, where

he obtained employment in a grocery store.

In 1969, he

worked at a rental car agency and was a student at Dade

Junior College in Miami

In 1958, he was reported to be a member of the

Ejercito Secreto

Anti-Comunista, a Cuban exile anti-CASTRO

organization, which is no longer in existence.

CARBALLO, on interview, denied membership in this group

In 1958, 08 (4)

MM T-1,

a Cuban exile, advised that in April, 1976,

CARBALLO met with a number of members of Brigade 2506 and

discussed plans for a bombing attack against an unspecified

Russian ship.

Brigade 2506 is an association of veterans

in the

April 17, 1961 invasion of Cuba by Cuban exiles.

→u)

In

1975, CARBALLO was elected president of

Brigade 2506

MM T-2, a Cuban exile, closely associated with

members of Brigade 2506,

reported that in June, 1976, CARBALLO

travelled from Miami to

San Juan, Puerto Rico to meet with

Brigade

members

in that city for the purpose of raising

funds.

MM T-2 said that on June 11, 1976, CARBALLO was

Reputat

of five Cuban exile organizations.

The organizations that

CLASSIFIED

EXTENDED

SY.

EXTENSION

Sources whose identities are

1.3.

concealed herein, have furnished

HEW FOR

reliable information in the past

CATA

29-96

DECLASSIFICATION

except where otherwise noted

This

150/50

document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is

loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

ALL INPORMATION CON

NERBIT 2O

LASSI

EXCRE LANTED STOWA

WINT

1776-1976

OTHERWISE

134-2720-132/00

- 2165-2

ENCLOSURE

CONF

Classified b

Dectassify on: DADRe

123/53

+ 211,326

Tote) .

DocId: 32340872

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Aspassination Records colleation Act

DATE: 11-14-2017

1ST

Tote)

CONFIDENTIAL

RE': ROBERTO CARBALLO DIAZ

were represented at this meeting were the Cuban National

Liberation Front, Brigade 2506, Cuban Action, 17th of

April Movement,

and the Cuban Nationalist Movement.

CARBALLO

represented the Brigade 2506 at this meeting.

An umbrella organization was formed as a unity

group of these organizations.

This unity group was called

Coordination of Revolutionary Unity (CORU) and planned to

immediately launch into a program of terrorist activities

against the government of Cuba.

Since that time, CORU has

claimed credit for 18 acts of terrorism, including kidnapings,

airplane bombings

acts of piracy, and bombings of Cuban

embassies. ug

DocId: 32340872

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records collection

992 (14 USC

Note)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIÓN

1

Dole of tronscription.

CONTIDENTIAL

8/3/76

ROBERTO CARBALLO, 400 NIe 107 Avenue, Miami,

telephone number

552-1224, aftêr being advised

of the identities of interviewing Agents and the nature

of the inquiry by SA SINECIO GUTIERRE?, was advised of his

rights by SA GUTiERREZ, as shown on an executed Rights and

Waiver form which Mr. CARBALLO rend, stated that he understood

and signed. 'He then furnished the following inforation:

He is President of Brigade 2506 in Miami, Florida.

The Brigade 2505 consists of Cuban exile veterans of the

Bay of Pigs

to this position.

wester gal. He ras recently electo

CARBALLO was asked by SA GUTIERREZ if he attended a

meeting in Santo Domingo, Doninican Republic, during the flrst

part of June,

1976 where members of Accion Cubana, FLNG,

Brigade 2506,

Movimiento Nacionalista Culcano, and Movimiento 17

de Äbril met with Mr. ORLANDO BOSCH and FRANK CASTRO to unify

Repub scoups into a single effori against FIDEL CASTRO and the

ic of Cuba. Mr. CARBALLO responded that he had been to

Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, during the first part of

June, 1976,

and he did meet with several Cuban exiles; however,

he would elect not to mention the peopl

with, whom he mar or

anything further concerning this trip.

He stated that Brigade 2506 is part of CORU (Coordi-

nacion de Organizaciones Revolucionarias Unidas) (Coordination

of United Revolutionary Orgenizations). Tis action was taken

in concurcence with the Directorate of Brigade 2505, of which

ARMANDO LOPEZ ESTRADA is a part.

• LOPEZ ESTRADA is the military

director of Brigade 2506.

He further advised that as President

CASTRO and anti-comnunist Cuban exile. He is in exile as a

result of the communis i regime takeover in Cuba. He feals

attempt to topple. the communist regime of

that he must do everything at his disposal mud commoner ma

this, he reels very strongly in this belief; however, he feels

a very strong appreciation towards the United States

and does

not wish to enbarrass the United States in any way. He feels

(4)

Interviewed on.

by.

7/29/76

not.

Miami, Florida

SA SINECIO GUTIERREL,

SA BENITO A. SILVA/ thm

__Do

File # 2-460

copy: 2-451

copy: 45-1768

59130/75

BRITAL

This document contoins neilher recommendalions nor conclusions of the FBI. Il is the prop

it and its conlenls

ore nol lo be distribuled outside your ogency.

DocId:32340872 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John.

F. Kennedy

Assassina

DATE: 11-14-2017

note)

CONFIDENTIAL

very proud to have served as a U. S. Any officer.

Because

of his strong belief that he mist not embarrass the United

he has always telt thar actions

against FIDEL CASTRO must originate from abroad and take

place abroad.

se is aware of the provisions of the Neutrality

Act but his reason for believing that anti- CAStRO actions

must all take place abroad is

that, he

does not wont to see

problens for the United States.

Mr. CARBALLO stated that he is concerned that the

conmunist regime of FIDEL CASTRO recently captured three

Cuban fishing boats

with nine Cuban exiles on board. One of

the persons on board was a child.

These people have been in

carcerated in Cuba and he feels

that no action has been taken

against Cuba for this piracy.

In tact, MI. CARBALLU StateC

the press has played down this criminal act of the communist

regime of Cuba.

He stated that the fishing vessels which were

captured are the "Mako," "Canario,"

and "Miguelito.

Mr. CARBALLO advised that he is very much aware that

Miami Cuban exiles ORESTES RUIZ HERNANDEZ and GASPAR JIMENEZ

were arrested in Mexico and charged with an attempt to kidnap

the Republic of Cuba'

s Consul in Meride, Yucatan, Mexico, or

or about July 23, 1976, in which a Cuban national was killed.

He knows GASPAR JIMENEZ personally, but he does not know kul

HERNANDEZ.

He knows about their problens because of news

releases which he has read.

edge of the act these men are accused of having committed.

He advised that he did not aid or directly support GASPAk

JIMENEZ or his accomplices in carrying out the kidnap attempt

in lexico.

He would rather not say who is directly support-

ing GASPAR JIMENEZ in other matters.

He stated that everyone

does what he isapposed to do or feels that he shoulddo in

the fight against commnism.

He emphatically denied having

any

knowledge concerning the kidnap attempt of the Cuban Consul

and the killing of the Cuban national in Mexico.

не kno a))

DocId: 32340872

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy

DATE: 11-14-2017

sEina

Her

inte].

SONFIDENTIAL

p -0o (14)

nothing now or knew nothing before concerning this matter

other than that which he has now learned from newspapers

CARBALLO advised that he knows nothing concerning

a shooting on the high seas near Cay Sal Bank upon the

Russian freighter

• "DZHORDANO BRUNO"

on February 12, 1975.

He stated that he knew nothing concerning an attack upon

the Cuban fishing vessel "FERRO CEMENTO 119" or any other

vessel on April 6, 1976. He stated that he feels these

embarrassing to the United

in that he

capitalia on tiese arines for propagandi purgoses gick

CARBALLO admitted that he knows of an organization

known as the FING, but he would rather not comment as to

its members or associates.

He said le knows of an organiza-

tion known as Movimiento 17 de Abril.

Miami; he would rather not comment any further on this.

he balioves is isola

He

stated that although he may have knowledge of

other organizations, he does not have any

knowledge

as to membership or

associates in them.

He said he knows many Cuban exiles w

and many otheis.

vities because

engaged in du)

nate hurledst of mat these people may

ROBERTO CARBALLO is described as follows,

from ob-

servation and interview:

Name

Sex

Racers

Nationality

Date of Birth

Place of Birth

ROBERTO CARBALLO

White

American (naturalized

December 10m 1938

Havana,

Cuba

5

CONT

DocId: 32340872 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released unter the

DATE : .11-14-2017

ssassination Recorus

Correction Aut

1050.

-211

note).

COMFIDENTIAL

Height

Weight

Haix

Eyes

Occupation

Telephone

5 feet 8 inches

180 pounds

Black

Light brown (hazel)

President, TBA Distributing

corporation,

7455 N.W. 8th Street,

Miami, Florida

264-5513.

(и)

6

DocId: 32340872

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John I Kennedy

DATE: 11-14-2017

Assassnai

tel

CONFID

RE: ROBERTO CARBALLO DIAZ

MM T-2 reported that on September 6, 1976, Brigade

2506 completed a four-day meeting in Miami and

formed a

government in arms.

CARBALLO, as president of Brigade 2506,

formed an independent action group within the Brigade to

raise funds to finance a war against Cuba. CARBALLO said

that he had been in contact with ORLANDO BOSCH, head of Cuban

Action, and FRANK CASTRO, head of the National Liberation

Front of Cuba, and had pledged his support to them and coRu.

It is noted that BOSCH and CASTRO attended the June 11, 1976

meeting in the Dominican Republic where CORU was forned. & "

a Cuban exile and member of Brigade 2506,

on October 4, 1976, reported that CARBALLO and ARMANDO LOPEZ

ESTRADA of Brigade 2506, have aligned themselves with CORU

but that other Brigade members were opposed to this cooperation

with a terrorist group and were considering taking this

CARBALLO' S

position and leadership of the Brigade.

7*

DocId: 32340872

Page 9

---

