# docid-32310539

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/17/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10304-10000

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-107621-1, 2, 3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 02/07/1962

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

CHS, EMP, ASSOC, DOMR GOVERNMENT, FINANCES, CRIM

ACT, HOODLUM, NCK, NEWSPAPER, EL CARIBE, RCK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : . INC 3 MEMO, A/T, S/S

v9.1

DocId: 32310539

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

Andrews,

Anderson

3/2/62

Room 1527 JB

SAC,

Miami (205-5451)

RIC- 126

Director, FBI (205-107621) - 3

CHARLES F. SAPP

IS - DOVINICAN REPUBLIC

REGISTRATION ACT - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

ітв

Belliet 3/13/62.

Bureau authority granted for interview of captioned

subjecte

This interview should be conducted by two Agents,

one of whom is thoroughly familiar with Dominicon matters,

results of which should be immediately furnished to the Bureau

with appropriate recommendations for further action.

It should be borne in mind that unile subject is a

police officer of the Miami Police Depariment and & source of

the Miami Office,

the possibility exists that subject may have

been engeged in Dominican

intelligence actiolties.

Bufiles contain no additional derogetory information

identifiable with subject other than that already in your

possession.

LLA:099

(5)

NOLE:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ATE 4x2-96 BY5ll81SL0

ride

5FK

• One Sargento Charles l. (possibly Sergeant Charles I.)

was included on o list of alleged agents of the Dominicon Military

IntelloService (SIM) which appeared in the 1/24/62 issue of the Dominicon

"El Caribe.

The above appeared

under the headin

MAILED

MAR 2

"'International Matters" and the word

"Miami" was listed after

Sthe name.

His salary uas indicated to be 100 pesos.

от 2/9/62

Deutenant Clodoveo Fenundp Quii? Gonzalez, former SIl functionary

now in New vort, aduled he willnot know. full name of captioned

subject but a few years ago while visiting the Trujillo yacht,

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan.

Conrad

DeLoach.

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel .

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Holmes

Gandy

ne neara trujillo nad a close friend in miami, clorida,

who is a

-sergeant in the Mign Police Doperiment.

Whenever Trujillo's

yacht

would visit

Miami a sergeant Charles would meet the yacht,

-board it and boast he vas a personal friend of trujillo.

Toes

HAR 29000

"MAiL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE 2

WVE 58 1825

DocId: 32310539 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 210% Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Letter to Miami

Re:

CHARLES H. SAPP

105-107621

NOTE: (Continued)

Miami advised in relet that Miami files indicate

the individual referred to was sergeant Charles He Sappe

intelligence Unit, Miami Police Depariment, who has been

in

contact wron the vominicon consulate, Miami, on numerous

occasions and has furnished information to the Miami Office

concerning criminal intelligence and top hoodlum matters.

Dominican Consulate, Miami, (PSI),

Al agracia Code Pops ormer end in 3160 that

subject had for years been the liaison contact between the

Miami Police Department and Dominican Consulate.

occasion subject and other police officers took a trip to

the Dominican Republic as quests of the Dominicon Republic.

In view of the above it is felt subject should be

interviewed directly at this time concerning

this matter.

'...

DocId: 32310539

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 059

DATE: 11=14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES GOVZRNMENT

Memorandum

SAC, MIAMI

(105-5451) (P)

SUBJECT:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREMYS UNGLASSINED

04TC 4-3-85 BУS6E8 SUD/

CHANGED

CHARLES H.

SAPP, aka

Sgt. Charles H. Sapp

IS - DR;

RA - DR

00: Miami

Title is changed from "'SARGENTO CHARLES H. as

information in Miami files indicates Sergeant CHARLES H. SAPP

is the individual referred to.

Endl

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 3/13/62

12

Re New York let to Bureau 2/7/62; New York airtel

to Bureau 2/14/62,

and Bureau let to Miami 2/27/62.

On March 6,

1962, ALTAGRACIA G. de FOX, former

Auxiliary Consul, Dominican Consulate, Miami, under considerati on

for development as PSI - DR (protect), stated that Sergeant

NUS 58

in

matters requiring liaisonbetween the DR Consulate and Miami Police

authorities.

She stated that on one occasion some time ago,

exact date not recalled, SAPP, with other police officers, was

invited to take a trip to the DR as guest of the DR and he did

so.

She stated that SAPP never acted as an agent of the DR or

received any money for anything which he did as far as known.

She stated that his and the other police officers' expenses in the

i vet a y

DR during the above mentioned trip, probably were paid for by

the DR Government, but she could not say for sure.

Miami files refleck that

on October 26, 1961, MM 768-C

bElievIsed that ROBERT EMMETT, JOHNSON, self described foreign affairs

Leau (RM)

05187621=3

New York (Info) (RM)

MCT

1 - San Juan (Info) (RM)

I - Washington Field (Info) (RIC- 146

013

5 MAR 14 1962

2 - Miami

Let tomm

THE : ChW

(7)

3126/62

EX

IC!.

LLAlagg

To -1690

00

07 note).

DocId: 32310539

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-5451

analyst for Ex DR leader RAFAEL L. TRUJILLO MOLINA 1956 - 60,

1bR-C the SARA

claimed to MM 768-C that SAPP had for years sold information

to

the Dominican Government and the files in the DR should show

this.

It is noted that JOHNSON has been interviewed on two

occasions as a result of nis claims to knowledge of the Dominican

Intelligence operation. On both occasions when specifically

questioned ne claimed to nave no specific knowledge.

Miami files further reflect that on October 12, 1958,

EDUARDO HERNANDEZ, then Cuban Consul in Miami, advised SA ROBERT

J. DWYER in connection with the investigation of the case

entitled SERGIO SANJENIS CABARROCAS, aka; ET AL, Bufile 2-1505,

that Detective CHARLES SAPP of the Miami Police Department,

had informed him of the arrest of HUGO GONZALEZ LAJONCHERE, one

of the individuals involved, and furnished HERNANDEZ with

It is noted that the above case referred to the

attempted formation of a demolition team to operate against "

the then Cuban Government which HERNANDEZ thenrepresented in Miami.

Miami files reflect that SAPP has in the past furnished

information in connection with criminal intelligence matters to

the Miami Office and at the present time he is furnishing

information to the Miami Office in connection with the hoodlum

program.

It is the recommendation of the Miami Office that

SAPPibe interviewed in connection with his past connection with

the DR Government and specifically asked about the item appearing

in the January 24, 1962, issue of El Caribe, the DR newspaper

which published a list of names and amounts received or paid.

In this list the name SARGENTO CHARLES H. (Miami).... $RD100.00

appeared under the heading "International Affairs."

- 2-

3010 a

DocId: 32310539

Page 5

---

## Page 6

inder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (414 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

anderson

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

• Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

(Tavel er s

Trotter-

Tele. Room ??

ngram.

Fands

2/0y Stand

Fobruary 20, 1902

poreton ta' 105-1076742

REC- 1

3A3050 06%

AUAIELLATIOY AAL - DONICAT BEFORE

00g

e Few Fert airdel, 1/14/68, oopics do Poss

constones elect follening shich exproprice load.

do 306 Jorch Qeng with recommendoedone for Euroner tuace

Brides contain no mattional maratias

• 130nd 45600do

0i60

capstoned aupecte

* New Foule

• Abatingdon

i Be Face

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

EREIN IS UNCLASSIE

ATE 3:31-95 356685/ rde

ILA can: blu

(7)

(JFK)

NOIE:

Captioned

subject was included on a list of alleged

agents

of the Dominican Intelligence Service (SIl) which appeared

in the 1/24/62 issue of the Dominican newspaper "El Caribe."

Subject's name appeared under the heading "International Matters"

and

, the word (Miami) was listed after his nome.

His salary wasy

indicated to be 100 pesos.

On 2/9/62 Lieutenant Clodoveo Edmundo

Orti? Gonzalez, former sill functionary now in New York advised

he did not know jull name of captioned

subject, but a few years

ago while visiting the Irujillo yacht, he heard that Irujillo

had a close friend in Miami,

Florida,

who was a

sergeant in

the Miami Police Department.

Whenever Trujillo's yocht would

visit Miami, a Sergeant Charles would meet the yacht, board it

and boast that he was a personal friend of Trujillo.

MaILER 3

FEB 2 6 1962

COMM-FBI

18621

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

splen

DocId: 32310539 Page 6

---

## Page 7

"Released under the John F.

DATE:

FD-36 (Rey.

17-12432077

Kennedy Assassination Recorus

Collection Aut or 1p92 (41 05c 2107 Note) .

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

2/14/62

(Type in plain text or code)

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM

SUBJECT:

SAC, NEW YORK

-NEW)

SARGENTO

CHARS. H

(POSSIBLY SERGEANT CHARLES H)

IS - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

RA - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

(00: MIAMI)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE HNS S aS rude

JFK

ReNYlet 2/7/62 wherein the above-captioned individual

was included on a list of alleged agents of the Dominican

Intelligence Service and whose name appeared under the heading

"International Matters" and the word (Miami) was listed after

his name. His salary was indicated to be 100 pesos.

On 2/9/62, Lieutenant CLODOVEO EDMUNDO ORTIZ

GONZALEZ, former functionary of the servicio de inteligencia

Militar (SIM), was interviewed by SAS R. JOSEPH L'ITALIEN ano

HEINRICH_ VON ECKARDT, and furnished the following information:

ORTIZ stated he did not know the full name of

this individual, but that a few years ago while visiting the

Captain of Generalissimo TRUJILLO's yacht hecheard from the crew

that TRUJILLO had a close friend in Miami, Florida, who was

Sergeant in the Miami Police Department.

Whenever TRUJILLO'S

yacht would visit Miami, a Sergeant CHARLES would meet the yacht,

board it and boast to the crew that he was a personal friend

the Generalissimo, and that he wished at some future date to

visit the Dominican Republic.

ORTIZ does not know this individua

personal and could furnish no further information concerning him

it our

CREC- 1

-Bureau

2-Miami

(BM)

I San Juan (Info) (RM)

1>WFO (Info)

(RM)

1-New York (105-NEW)

RJL: mEW (311)

Argolved:

Special Agent in

Charge

TO FEB 18 40R91.

Sent

Par

DocId: 32310539

Page 7

---

