# docid-32323141

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90010-10145

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-9734-780

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BROWN

TO:

DL

TITLE:

Document Information

Released under the John

F. Kenned:

sassination Records

Collection

Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :WH 54463 Date:

40-12-2017

DATE:

PAGES:

/ SUBJECTS :

06/08/1962

2

AMERICAN G.I. FORUM

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

, COMMENTS:

MEMO

vg.1

HH 54463

DocId: 32323141

Page 1

81

---

## Page 2

SAC, DALLAS (134-4A-419A)

SA W. HARLAN BROWN

6/8/62

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERED 15-91857668510/15R

(JFK)

On 4/27/62 SA W. HARLAN BROWN

received in persona

typewritten report dated

4/24/62 from I-"s.

This report

has

been serialized as 134-4A-419, and contains the following

information:

Infornant deternined on 4/24/62 that on that date GILBERT

C. GARCIA visited JOE LANDIY. GARCIA 1s active in the GI Forum

and in PASO.

He has been an

officer in both organizations.

Presently, GARCIA ts working for Senator JARRARD SECREST.

CARCIA,

on 4/24/62 visited JIMMY TRUJILLO, IDA MORENO, JOE LANDIN, and

spoke to J. O. GARCIA on the phone. He wanted the PASO group

to hold a rally for Senator SECREST.

IDA MORENO, JILLY TRUJILLO,

LARRY HOCHBERG, BUDDY REYES and Jot Inbill agreed to hold the rally

at a park.. They planned to donate $5.00 aplece for the rally's

expenses,

GILBERT told LANDIN that the PASO organization has

not held any meetings nor worked in DANIELS bobalf. (PASO endorsed

DANIEL

The names, most of them, that J. O, submitted as PASO

members are not bona fide members.

GARCIA had checked on some of

then. He found out that they hadd

not joined the organization.

GILBERT C. GARCIA has given an ultimatan to 3. O. GARCIA,

local PASO chairman, either he start working or he would expose

hÊm

in regard to the names he has submitted.

He would then force

J. O. out of office and appoint another person who would abide by

the organization's decisions.

He showed JOB the list of names

he (J.0. GARCIA) had subnitted.

The list had 64 names on 1t, among

then was Mr. and Mrs. AUGUSTIN ESTRADA. They were listed as paid

up members.

Informant further deternined the rally would be held

on 5/3/62, the Senator would be present and other candidates would

be invited to attend.

GARCIA gave literature on PASO and on the

1 - 134-44-419A

1 - 100-8001 (J. LANDIN)

- 100-671-8 (POL. ACTS)

100-9734 (G.I.

FORUM)

- 100-10695 (PASO)

1 - 100-7995 (A. ESTRADA)

1 - 29-1196 (BILLIE SOL ESTES)

WHB: Jeg

100-5734-780

SEARCHED.

SEALED A MIES B

JUN 8 1962

FBI - DALLAS

(7)

dean 19de?

NW 54463 DooId:32323141

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DI 134-4A-419A

candidates that the organization is supporting.

the candidates

aPO: PRICE DANIEL, JARRARD SECREST, TOM REAVLEY and WODDROW W.

BEAN.

Sone of the literature is in Spanish. GARCIA also gave

him three records, entitled: alberto fuentes,

SI.

POONTES 19

• candidate.

GARCIA identified candidate ROBERT TRIAS as a

Bircher •

PRIAS is a candidate for U. S. Representative, 16th

Congressional District.

GARCIA, former stato organizer for PASO,

according to the folders he gave LANDIN on PASO, holds no office

In the organization. Although he previously identilled himself

as PASO's national organizer. He showed a bill for $217 which

he had ineurred while working as PASO organizer.

had left hin holding the bag (uith the bill). Labor had been

paying part of his salary.

He is bitterly opposed to Atty. OSCAR

MAUZY,

local labor attorney. He believed that MAUZy has been

trying to get rid of him for years, 1954-1955. At one time, when

Mrs. WILLIAM CALLEJO, was active in the forun.

the rst, GluBeRT

said, on NAUZY's request, had investigated the forum.

Hrs. CALlabeD,

he added, had gone to Washington in connection with the lavestigation.

He did not elaborate on what Mrs. CALLIJ0 did in Washington. He

believes labor is trying to stop the Latin-Inericans fron organi

zing.

He and JOE LANDIN agreed that in spite of what inadequacies

J. O. GARCIA has he should be supported.

paint da pete of and soon the

Latins nore politically conscious.

He informed J0B that BILLIE SOL

ESTES had donated $150,000 to DON YARBOROUGH for his campaign.

The

check had not been cashed, it had been stopped (stopped payment)

in tine.

This information, he added, may or nay not make the press.

Informant determined that after GARCIA 1O1t IDA MORBNO

contacted JOB LANDIN.

She told LANDIN that she used to respect

and adnire both GILBERT GARCIA and forum founder, Dr. HECTOR P.

GARCIA, but that after the PASO Convention, she was ashamed of

both of them.

Dr. GARCIA had, with his prestige, influenced the

PASO delegates to endorse

The best candidate for

Governor, she said, was DON YARBOROUGh and she was voting for him.

At the convontion,

she continued, they had been railroaded into

supporting PRICE DANIEL and that

is why the ISO Chapter in Dallas

has been reluctant to work for DANIEl.

Informant had no additional information.

dea total

NW 54463 DooId: 32323141 Page 3

---

