# docid-32334601

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90116-10307

RECORD SERIES:

MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-4921-89

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

444 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53074 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

KELLOGG

TO: MM

TITLE :

DATE:

01/11/1965

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32334601

Page

1

12

---

## Page 2

--•3

MEMO SAC (105-4921)

1/11/65

RE: MINUTEMEN

INTO CONCERNING

Re previous memos to SAC .froM SA RICHARD B. KELLOGG.

NNXXXX On 1/7/65 Deputy Sheriff VALJIAN HALEY; Palm Beach

County SO, West Palm Feach, l'la.,

advised he had received no answer

to his communication

sent to Minutemen but will irmediatly advise if

he gets subsequent communication.

On that same date PETAR ANTHONY VETCHER, 1825 Meadow Court,

West Palm Beach, lla., advised that about two weeks prior to that

he had been in the front yard working when the mail came. He said

included in his mail was a rather bulky envelope bearing no return

address but postmarked in Hollywood, fla.. He said it was rather

obvious to him that this was more "Minutemen" literature so he told

the railman he would not accept it. VETCHER indicated he did not

want to "blacken his good name" by having his name associated with

such an organization. He said, however, he would be more than glad

to assist the fBI in regards the organization. He did not volunteer

to join the orgammsation but voiced a very cooperative attitude. A

new 134 has been opened on VETCHER and he will be approached about

this as soun

as that investigation progresses to proper point.

• In discussing with VETCHER how his name might have come to

the attention of Minutemen, he said he had no idea as he knows very

1 - Miami

105-4921-89

SEARCHED.

RBK/rbk

_INDEXED

SERiALIZED...

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

JAIN 1 2 1965

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 113/84 BY SPEBTAa

J11, 01

HH 53074 DocId:32334601 Page 2

---

## Page 3

few people in the area and none who have given any indication of

being

interested in a group like minutemen. He said the only thing

he could think of is the fact that he is a member of the Rangers

Battalion Assn., which is an association of former members of the

1st through 5th Ranger Battalions, from World War II. He said the

headquarters of this group is Incated at 1772 North Orchid, Los

Angees, California, and they do maintain a roster. He said it might

OR TRINED POSSESSIÓN

be, the Minutement being what they are, that they have gotten ahold

of such a roster and are trying to recruit persons with a Ranger's

background. He said they are having a reunion in August, 1965, in

Santa Barbara, Calif., and if his suppoition is true he might be able

to find out more at thatitime.

Above for info with suggestion Los Angeles might be advised in

next outgoing cormunication of VETCHER's idea as set forth above

for possible development by Los Angeles.

Investigation continuing West Palm Reach

Richard B. Kellogg

Special Agent

1H 53074 DocId: 32334601 Page 3

---

