# docid-32191906

## Page 1

John F.

11-11-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107

INDE ROOHOUTION DIOLET

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10256-10340

RECORD SERIES:

WMFO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 65-3676-SUB 1-5968

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. WMFO

DATE: 11/24/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: JFK, FUNERAL ATTENDEES, LHO, MURDER BY JR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

10/27/1998

Redact

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

• .

DocId: 32191906 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 -

Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ALLTAFOR

CLASSIIET

MED HEREINTS

HERWISE NOTED

ALE INFOFWATION CONTAINED

HERSIN IS UNCLASSIFIDD EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Washington, D.C

November 24, 1963

Sunday

1:00am

WE 456+SCS

11-43J C53

9:20am

WF 456

ne

-<71

S

9:43am

WF (456+S653

ne

10:57am

WF (4567s(S)

11:00am

456+S(53

nc

11:02am

WE 45675(5

ne

POLISH SUMMARY

CZ. LUDWICZAK Calls R. KRYSTOSIK at embassy asking what 1s

new. KRist. says nothing much but he has been busy gettingsu

for the people arriving for the funeral

Further discussion about what they had seen on TV regarding

the funeral preparations. (LUDWICZAK plans to be at the

embassy about 10:00AM. KRYSTOSIK WIT

_ also come

in about

that time.

N. JAKOBOZYK to MARIAN TARCZEWSKI at home reminded TARCZ.

that he has athe duty today and should have been there about

an hour ago. TARCZ®

will be there. in about a half hour.

is sorry but had forgotten about it. He

(Polish)

R. KRYSTOSIK to UNID, (possibly J. SOLTYSIEWICZ) asked 1f

there were any calls

for him. No. KRYSTOSIK left word that

1

the ambassador called that he, KRYST., would

and would get in touch with the amo.

be in shortly

(Polish)

JJP

MICHAEL TURNER, WIOPNews, to R. KRYSTOSIK, asked for the CU)

names of the persons from Poland coming to the president's

"uneral"

the delegation and that PIOTR JAROSIEWICZ

the deputy prime minister is the other memeber coming. They

arrive on scand. Airlines in New Y rk at 5:35pr today and

at Washington National Airport on Eastern Airlines 11zght

if there are any changes.

had come in.

RESZKA to EDW. DROZNIAK advised that something important

call J. OSICA and

DROZ. cannot come in now so he asked

have him bring the message out. OK.

RESZKA to

(Polish)

JJP

S. RESZKA to Mps. J. OSICA wanted J. OSICA to take a message

to the embassador.

She told him that her husband had

wash the car and could not

gone to

soon as he returns.

be reached. She will tell him as

(Polish)

Cras sited

Declasstly on: 00c

(65-3676 fuk1-5968788

25532] (5)

SLARCHED ...

814/88

SECRET

CLASSIFIED BY 51668-ses hulle

DECLASSIFY ON:

no las

1A3+9

DocId: 32191906 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107-

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

1: 35pm

VF{45675/5.

ZECHE

POLISH SUMMARY (DU)

sunday

HERBERT

state Dipt

to R. KRYSTOSIK, advised

State

requested

that

all Socualist country missions In

that guards be posted arou

at

Chicago and New York

because of

strong Intelligence information that has been

received. He indicated that has nothing to do with the

personnel of the missions. The S

ated dept. has requested

that the men be changed so that there will be no one in

uniform in fornt of these places-only plainclothesmen.

JJP

WF /456-

ISGULR. KRYSTOSIK to

said he had convered the

information to the ambassador and the embassy has not otherCu

wishes in this

matter. (They will go along with whatever

the State Dept wants to. do.)

2: 27w7

WF 456-S(S)

nc

2:31pm

MARIAN DOBROSIELSKI to K. ORACZEWSKI asked him or Z. LUDWICZAK

TO GO TO the Capitol and obtain copies of the anananes talks

MA CORALE NO BAROL COURT SATE MAN ON

Sepaker

JJP

ни)

urs.

Z* WILINSKA

to MARIAN WILINSKI at the M.O. asked when

he would be home

for dinner. Around

3:30pm. OK. (Polish)

JJP

2:34 pm

WF (652

HARVEY

FE

2:43pm

WF (4567S #3)

no

5:10pm

WE 4555s (8)

ne

TRIBUNG

AGO

WALO

SECRET

KRYSTOSIK to SHOREHAM hotel made reservation for a 3rd an

4th

room for this evening. No name given. Rooms reserved

are

201 through

JJP

(5) (U)

R. KRYSTOSIK tO

MALIN UDS.

(rosays that since the Polish

Embassy.nor the.

guard,

to make a retraction or correction..

Malin asked if they had

heard from KITA or anyone. No. Maliniasks if they know if only

plainsclotheman is there now. No, they just feel the statement

should be corrected. Malin says thatalmost all of USDS personnel

are some place or another greeting the incoming officicals of

foreign nations, that it would be virtually impossible to do

anything today, but that first thing tomorrow he will bring it

to the attention of those who handle press matters, fortheir

consideration

_OK, yhanks much.

DocId: 32191906

Page 3

---

