# docid-32307090

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/5/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10291-10230

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4546-8TH NR 7

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NH 54046 Date:

08-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/14/1961

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

MR, AFFIL, MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO,

ASSOC, POLIT, PR

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

HH 54046

DocId: 32307090

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

Memora. dum

TO

Director, FBI (109-12-210)

AND T

FROM

SAC, Mand (105-1747)

SXT*

•NG

RATE

5/14/84

15S

7a

SUBJECT:

FOREIGN POLITICAL NATTURS • CUBA

IS • CUBA

IS INFORMNCION CONTAINED

2018 ta

LASSIFIED

SHOWN

OFFERWISE

Classified by

Declassify on: CADR 4/26/84

DID ASSIFIED BY

5-17á- 904.

Re Miani letter to Bureau 7/18/61.

Enclosed herewith are nine copies of & letterhead

memorandum dated and captioned as above.

MM T-I is Doctor AGUSTIN CASTELLANOS GONZALEZ,

under development as & PSI - Cuba. le

Two copies are furnished for Sen Juan since MANUEL

RAY was & former frequent visitor there and was visited

several times in the United States by Puerto Rican Governor

LUIS MUNOZ MARIN, and, prior to the invasion effort, made

trips to Washington, D. C., accompanying MUNOZ MARIN, through

whom he allegedly gained entree to several Washington officials

in bigh positions. (

pSX has been

• RAY's personal physician all his 1110,

as vell as doctor of his children.

PSI made his trip to

Puerto Rico under the auspices of

"Prinera Jornada Pediatrica"

(First Pediatric Advance) sponsored by Nestle Condensed will.

He stated that immediately after talking to Doctor RAMON SUAREZ,

the latter called GovernOr MUNOZ MARIN to tell him of PSI's

impression of RAY.

Upon talking to RAY on July 28, 1961,

the

latter gave no indication that he attributed the Governor's

cool treatment of him to anything pSI had said.

Copies are furnished to San Juan with a request

for comment regarding PSI's appraisal

of the

fall of CASTRO

supporters a puerto Rico, and, i feasible, present attitude

01 GOVernOr MUNOZ MARIN tOWArdS MANUEL RAY, *) Y

Careful consideration as given to sources concealed

by "g" symbols, and were used only where necessary to protect

informant from

exposure

2

3

(7)

Bureau (Encls. 9) (RM)

San Juan (Encils. 2) (RM)

Miami (2 - 105-1747)

(1 - 134603)(U

CONFIDENTIAL

92-4546-

169 AUG 25 1961

SOAUG 28 1961

-323

- 210.

ORIGINAL COPY FILED IN

NW 54046 DooId: 32307090

Page 2

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

105-1747

CONFISENTIAL

Miami, Florida

AUG 1 4 1961

Classified by

ses BiD/gel

Declassity on:

HADR 420/84

Re:

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS -

CUBA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

a prominent Cuban doctor residing in

exile in the United States who is in an excellent position

to Iurnish reliable information on this subject, and who

furnished reliable information in the past,

The danger of any great following

• for FIDEL

CASTRO in Puerto Rico has passed.

He and his goverment

appear to be completely discredited and puerto Ricans in

all phases of the economic structure of the country are

fully aware that great prosperity is being enjoyed in

puerto Rico while Cuba is sinking into the most deplorable

of economic chaos

MMy-ithile not fully aware of all under ying

is responsible for his plight, and the turing of United

tourist and long-term investment attention to

Puerto

responsible for its surging economy.

MM T-L

stated that the above was encouraging to

him, since the CASTRO supporters were very strong in Puerto

Rico in 1959-1960.

He noted that there are some CASTRO

supporters, no doubt, among the puerto RiCan Nationals and

Communists,

but they are definitely an unimportant factor

as a group.

GOVernOr LUIS MUNOZ MARIN and DOCtor RAMON

SUAREZ,

described as an eminent Puerto Rican physician, Dean of the

medical school in san Juan, and anti-Communist,

and other

leaders, were extremely interested

in s frank

appraisal of

DECLASSIFIED BY SIS

0n-5-17-94

ALI INFORMARTON CONTAINED,

HEREIN IS INOLASSIFIED

CONFIDENT L

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

MOLOSURE

97-4546

NW 54046 DooId: 32307090 Page 3

(U)

---

