# docid-32312534

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10324-10283

RECORD SERIES: NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-1792-97, 107, 111

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/18/1960

9

FPCC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC AT, FD-302

v9.1

DocId: 32312534

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

5/20/60

AIRTEL

ALL. INFORMATION CONTAINED F

IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT WHERE

SHOWN OTHERWISE,

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4196)

SAC, NEW YORK (97-1792)

THE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

CLASHED ANDSR 8 2A1

EXTENDED BY M

MON

REASON FO

FOM, !,

DATE

SHICATION COR

ReBulets dated 5/13 and 18/50.

Bank account of ELIZABETH H, BARAD, head of the

membership committee of captioned organization, was reviewed,

but no significant deposits or withdrawals were found.

On 5/19/60, Mr. JAMES HILDABRAND, Security Manager

for the Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS), advised that

in viewing the photographs of ROBERT TABER, furnished by

Bureau in the referenced airtel, 5/18/60, he believes the

person depicted to be definitely identical with the CBS

employee ROBERT BRUCE TABER.

NYO Agents are attempting to

discreetly observe TABER to make positive identification.

A check of banks in an attempt to locate accounts

of Cuban Permanent Mission to UN employees, not prevlously

located, has determined that CARLOS BLANCO, Alternate g

Representative

to V, maintains an account with the UN branchedu

3-Bureau (97-4196) (RM)

-WFO 97-1354) INFO) (RM)

l-New York (97-179211

JJC: pam

(6)

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SCO/GUL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X. 00C6)

(5FK) 6M/48

-Supervisor #31

SECRET

921792-1076

DocId: 32312534 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Motel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 97-1792

SECRET

-5)

It will be noted that

WF. 1196-S* has furnished

Information which indicates that one MARJORY DE RIOS 15

furnishing information to TABER which is probably to be used

in subsequent Issues of "Falr Play" similar to that

furnished to the Bureau with NY airtel, 5/5/60. The possibility

exists that an obligation to register may be incurred by

TABER or the Committee through his connection with RIOS

It will be noted that JON SPELLER of NYC, who

recently returned from Cuba, advised that JUNE COBB, an

employee of the Cuban Government in the office of PIDEL CASTRO,

identified MARJORY RIOS as the assistant to TONY DE LA OSA,

Chief of Publie Relations in the Cuban Ministry of Foreign

Affairs.

SPELLER advised that according to COBB, RIOS and

DE LA OSA "handle the Pate Play For Cuba Committee"

(4)

New York 1s preparing a report on all investigation

in this matter to date. This report will be submitted to the

Bureau immediately.

SECRET

EASONE

DocId: 32312534 Page 3

---

