# docid-32330260

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90089-10295

HQ

100-344127-NR

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 54460 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/21/1959

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

ANTI FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32330260

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

Office M

490

SUBJBCT:

andum • UNITE

CTOR, • FBI (109-584)

SAC, HIANI (105-1742)

ANTI FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIRS

IS - CUBA

GOVERNMENT

DATE 5/21/59

Re Miant tel 4/29/59, Bureau radiogran 4/15/59

and Bureau letter 5/1/59.

Bureau letter May 1, 1959, Instructed Miami

to identify two Amerloang mentioned; actlvities of the

group in the U. 3., Identitles of those participating

in this country and to corroborate information furnished

by BENITEZ.

Concerning the identities of the two Americans,

Miami Office 1s attempting to obtain this information.

Concerning the specific identities of those

I1ving outside of the U. S. except ROLANDO MASFERRER.

Concerning developing other sources and

Informants to corroborate information furnished by

BENITEZ, the Miami Office has the following other

independent sources reporting on MASFERRER's activities:

1. RICHARD JAFFE, who 18 heading a propaganda

movement for MASFERRER and who 18 with

MASFERRER constantly.

2 - Bureau (RM)

- Miami

•RID: bna

NOT RATORDED

174 JUN 15 1959

OFUGINAL FILED MY

1 28

8118181

EXT

BYSPE BLALDO

CLA

REASON

DATE: OF REVIEW

REG 18

10₴

92

* MÁY 25 1959

74 54460

DocId: 32330260

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-1742

2.

3.

FRANK PEREZ PEREZ,

who is closely

associated with MASTERRER and with hin

constantly.

MM 639-S, who 18 now contacting MASHERRER

and who has apBociates In contact with

MASFERRER.

4.

JOE MEROL, who 1g now in contact and

assoclating with MASFERRER.

In addition to the above, MASPERRER was

Interviewed by the Miami Office on April 28, 1959,

at which time he ostensibly confirmed information furnished

by BENITEZ.

Miami has interviewed ORLANDO PIEDRA, former

Chief of the Bureau of Investigation, presently residing

in exile at Fort Lauderdale, who disclaimed any assoclation

with MASFERRER.

Colonel MARIANO FAGET, former Head of the Bureau

for Repression of Communist Activity of Cuba, disclaimed

any revolutionary association with MASFERRER.

FAGET 1s reportedly assoclated with JULIO

LAURENT, former Head of the Cuban Bureau of Naval

Intelligence.

They allegedly are cooperating with

representatives of the Dominican Republic to obtain arms

for ant1-CASTRO Cuban rebels 1n the Dominican Republic.

New York sources report that General FRANCISCO

TABERNILLA, former Chief of Staff of the Cuban Army,

residing West Palm Beach, Florida, is engaged in ant1-

CASTRO activity,

but is

not cooperating with ant 1-CASTRO

Cubans in Miami.

-2-

NW 54460 DooId: 32330260 Page 3

---

