# docid-32336930

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90135-10325

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-82298-136

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LO

TO:

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

SUMMARY

v9.1

DocId: 32336930

6

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Reeoris

DATE: 11-14-2017

1992 741 US0

2107 Hotel.

3°

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

No.

30 August, 1961.

7

"X"

5

5/31194 SpRMACIGHT JFK)

Classified by Apabli/sel

Declassify on: OADR 431/84

CUBA/SPAIN PORTUGAL

ELOY GUTIERREZ Menoyo

On November 30, 1960 a Lisbon daily reprinted an extract from the Cuban

paper "AVANCE" in which all exiled Spaniards were called upon to rally round

GUTIERREZ. who would lead them to liberate the Iberian Penninsula

2.

Subsequently on February I1,

1961, GUTIERREZ Menoyo was described tri

the press as follows:-

"Hero of the Cuban Army. Arrested in Liège where he met members of

D.R:I.L. who were imprisoned there and offered them the assistance

of Cuban commandoes for the liberation of the Iberian Penninsula.

GUTIERREZ then became double agent and on his return journey to

Cuba stopped in Madrid where he contacted Otto SKORZENY.

After his

return to Cuba he continued to act as a double agent and it was he

who suggested the Santa Maria plan to GALVAO.

Later on he fled to

the U.S.A. and is at present in Iexas."

Our representative in Madrid recently received a report that when

news of GALVAO's successful capture of the Santa Maria was received, GUTIERREZ

and seventeen others left in some craft or other from Cuba intending to transfer

to the Santa Maria at sea and so proceed to the Iberian Peninsula to start the

"Liberation of Spain"! These plans however went awry with the result that

GUTIERREZ, left short of food and fuel, had no option but to make for the

coast of Florida and there "simulate defection" to the Americans.

We should of course be most interested to know whether you have any

corroboration of the above story and, if

so, we would welcome any details

jou may be able to provide on GUTIERREZ. (5)

let to/STOTT](s)

100

OLASSIFIED BY 6922. WAP/08

•EXEMPT FROM GDS CATEGORY

DATE OF DECLASSIE/CATE INDEFINITE

EX-116

6/21/1821

REC- 4

FROM STOrT

AUG 31 1961

105-82298-136

SEP 12 1961

DOM ILErE DIA

VEC.D

CONFIBENTIAL SECRET

1001

DocId: 32336930

Page 2

---

