# docid-32989643

## Page 1

File #:

62-116395

Serial Scope:

650- EBF

Kerrest

Hanannzrasier Beaczde

Celleobber 208 28 2332

Mee Ta0 2000 Mabei.

--25-25=-

NW 55167 DocId: 32989643

Fage 1

---

## Page 2

SSC LETTER 7-14-75

ITEM # 9

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DE t2 16 e 8424241

RETAIN

NW/555876 50eTd:32989643 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TO

FOkM NO, 10

5010-106

112 EDITUN

•. HEG. NO. 27

SUNITED STATES GO

INMENT

Memorandum

Mr. A. I. Belmont Oy

FROM

:Wo C. Sullivan

SÚBJECT COMMUNISM AND THE NEGRO

MOVEMENT--A CURRENT ANALYSIS

1

- Mr.

B

ont

то

NO.

DeLoach

hir.

Evans

"..

DATE: November

22, 1964

]

- Mr.

Rosen

-

sit.

Sullivan

-

Mr.

Blaud

Mr:

Baumgardner

-

Phillips

Tolson

Belmon! -

Mohr

De Loach

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Evans

Gale -

Rosen

a Sullivan

tavel.

rotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

5.

Enclosed is a paper, captioned

as above, which depicts the communist

influence in the Negro movement with emphasis on Martin Luther King, JI.

This paper is an up-to-date revision of the one by the same title prepared

under the date of October 16, 1963. In updating it we emphasized three

main areas: (1) the continued dependence of King upon former Communist

Party, USA members, current and former Party sympathizers

and his continued

reliance on the long-time communist| Stanley David Levison;] (2) facts

relating to the moral degeneracy of King; and (3) the recent and current

Party aims aud

activities relative to the racial movement:

RECOMMENDATION:

Upon approval, consideration vill be given to appropriate dissemina-

cion." When approved, the paper should be returned to the Domestic

Inteitigezce Division for printing. and the preparation of appropriate

letters if disseminated.

Enclosure

SFP:k20

(10)

We.:

white House

* Dept

found;

Army. ca

Navy, Air fole mere

U51A

11 DEC IÓ

18

Важаин

66DEC

ra ..

* - ENCLOSUR!

NW 55167 DocId: 32989643

DIRECIO

This document is p

nation outside your

your Committee and

the

ne without the express

ntent may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person-

approval of the FBl.

Page .3

---

## Page 4

B'

JRE IN ENVEL PE

TO

ORA NO. 10

SA GEM. /REG. NO. 2%

UNITED STATES GO'E INMENT

Memorandum

Ar A. E, Belmont One

Nix.

A. lo Belmontl

FROM

Mr.

•W. C. Sullivan

SUBJECT

"COMMUNISM AND THE NEGRO.

MOVEMENT -A CURRENT "ANALYSIS"

joints: +7-955555

• Mx':

Belmont

MTo

Mohr

DeLoach

- tir.

Evans

DATE:

11/27/64 П2

1 - Mr. Rosen

1 - Mr.

Sullivan

-

• Liaison

-

KX.

J. F•

Bland

1

1

Mix

F

NiX.

J:

Baumgardner

E. Phillips

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

DeLoach

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes.

Gandy

Phi

Hips

My memorandum to you 11/22/64 subnitted for approval

captioned as above which depicts the communist influence

In the legro movement with emphasis on Martin luther King, Jr.

not for dissemi

proceedings by

This document is prepared in response te on pquest and is

nifi ial

unauthorized person

We have added information on the last four lines, page four,

top paragraph,

to show that on 11/24/64 King cont

Jones and asked that Jones and Stanley Levison/submit five-minute

speeches which King could use in accepting the Nobel Peace Prize.

King would select the best material from these speeches. {Jones

and Levison are key advisors to King.j

I nave checiseù vitt fi, lichi and lie. Delenoamne have

to

disclosed to

advised that they have read this paper.

nation outside

vor: Committee and themitten Tao we inmi

It is contemplated that dissemination will be made

under londay's date (11/30/64), if approved, to the following

of the FBI

individuals:

The Honorable Bill D. Moyers, Special Assistant to

the President, the White House

your Committee:

express aprovat

Aran detore ceral t coples to the Deputy

Attorney General',

Assistant

nel without

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Attorney General, and Mr. J. Walter Yeagley,

Assistant Attorney General

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

BY GREALL

The Honorable Dean Rusk, The Secretary O1 State

The Honorable John A. MCCone, Director of Central

Intelligence Agency

The Honorable Carl I. Rowan, Director of United States

1146.00:

Information Agency

The Honorable Robert S. McNamara, The Secretary of

Defense

DATE 10

Major General Edgar C. Doleman, Assistant Chief of

Staff for Intelligence, Department of the Army

Rear Admiral Ruius L. Taylor,

Director of Naval

Intelligence,

Department of the Navy

5. Colonel Joseph J. Cappucci,

Director of Special

14 Investigations, The Inspector G2ga1, Departmeat

• of the Air Force

Lieutenant General Joseph I. Carroll, Director, Defense

Intelligence Agency

n: 6165544021

100-442529

Enclosures - 10 bent

radethd (11)

CONTINUED l' OVER, 1964

NW

55167

DocId: 32989643

Page

4.

---

## Page 5

Menorandun to Mr. A. H. Belmont

RE:

"COMMUNISM AND THE NEGRO

MOVEMENT-A CURRENT ANALYSIS"

100-442529

RECOMHENDATION:

letter rinsed

diet ther.

1279/34.

That the attached transmittal letters be approved

and sente

see resid

letter to

12?

..

'NW 55167 DocId: 32989643

Page 5

'-2

---

## Page 6

*

SSC LETTER 7-14-75

ITEM # 13

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

whess165 Docid: 32989643 Page 6

---

## Page 7

N

TOG

SECRET

indiane

REC- 23

50%

.co.Mr.

Sullivan

CC

MI.

Belmont

Mr a

DeLoach

cc Mr: Rosen

December 1, 1964

BY LIAISON

I EX-100

--

ON 10 1k/50

nonorabLe BiLL I. hoyers

Special Assistant to the President

The Wnita House

Fashington, D. C.

Dear it, Moyers:

I thought the President would be

interested in the enclosed current study

entitled "Communisn and the Negro Movement

A Current Analysis."

Your advice is requested as to

whether we should disseminate this document

to responsible officials in the executive

Branch of the Government.

The sources used in the enclosure

have furnished rellable intornation in the

past, and because of their sensitive nature

the document has been classified "19g50a395."

Upon renoval of the classified enciosure, this

letter becomes unclassitied.

Sincerely YOUrS,

Tolson

•Belmón

Mohr*.

DeLoach.

Cosper

Callahen -

Contad -

Evans

Gale

Rosen

jullivan.

Tavel

"totter.

Holmes _

NH 55167 DocIa:329

21950

TELETYPE UNIT

PaGE

AHB: CSH

• (6)

This document is

prepared i response to your request and is-not for dissem

nation ortside is committee.

• Its use is tamed to official proceedings. by

your cormittee and the content man nut be disclased to unautherganisen

nel without the express approval of the FBI.. : DE

TOD

SECRET

sion

---

## Page 8

......

NW 55167* DocId: 32989643 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SSC LETTER

ITEM #7

7/8/75

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

. NW 55167 DocId: 32989643 Page 9

---

## Page 10

OPTIONAL PORM NO, 10

NAY LÓ'62 EDITICIN

3010-106

UNITED STATES GU

VERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. Fel

Baker

1 - Mr. E. S. Miller

Jr. Callahan

Mr. Clevelars

Mr. Conrad

Sr. Gobharde

PR. E. S. MILLER

DATE: May 25, 1973

Mr. Jenkins

Mr. Marshall

MR. G. C. MOORE I1ps0h

1 - Mr. G. C. Moore

1 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

1 - Mc. C. E. Glass

• Mr. Miller, E.SKC

Mr. Soyars

Mr. Thompson -

Mr. Walters

Tele. Room

Mr. Baise

1116. 1 MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - COMMUNIST

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN SUNCLASSIFIED

HERE WE GO BY SHARMAL

Mr. Barnes

Mr. Bowers

Mr. Herington -

Mr. Conmy

Mr. Mintz

The purpose of this memorandum is to furnish you

Mr. Eardley

Mrs. Hogan

information developed by a file review regarding allegations

of former Special Agent (SA) Arthur Murtagh in "The New York Times"

5/21/73.

My memorandum 5/23/73 indicated Murtagh alleged important

figures in the FBI tried to persuade community leaders in Atlanta

Georgia, they should not attend a banquet honoring King, with the

warning that the Bureau had information about King that might

eventually embarrass those who attended.

He alleged that an Agent

in Atlanta told him a top official from Washington called on two

religious leaders and the late Ralph McGill, editor of the "Atlanta

Constitution," to try to persuade them not to attend.

The attached copy of a memorandum from former Assistant

to the Director W. C. Sullivan to A. H. Belmont dated 1/21/65

indicates that Sullivan did talk at least twice with McGill anc

discussed that subject and that McGill was to contact three

religious leaders.

REG: 80

3949

"The New York Times" article also indicated that

Eugene Patterson, former editor of the "Atlanta Constitution,"

produced a recollection that a Special Agent of the FBI attempted

in the Spring of 1964 to have Patterson expose King!'s-running-around

with women while posing as a moral leader.

30 JUN 11:73

The attached memorandum W. C. Sullivan to A. H. Belmont

dated 1/16/64 captioned "Communist Party, USA, Negro Question;

Communist Influence in Racial Matters, IS - C," possibly pertains

to this recollection by Patterson.

We have located no reference

that Patterson was subsequently utilized as the memorandum indicated

that he could be.

CEG : ekw

3.

(5)

CONTINUED - OVER

Enclosures

8-1

1100-186670

NUiS

> 1973,

This document is prepared

an response to your request and is not for assemi-

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

vel without the express approval of the FBI.

67 Dostd:32282643 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Memorandum to Mr. E. S. Miller

• RE: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

Ralph McGill died in February, 1969.

Patterson was editor of the "Atlanta Constitution"

from 6/60 to 9/68 when he became Managing Editor of the

"Washington Post." He is reportedly now President and Publisher

of the "St. Petersburg, (Florida), Times." Hewas a member of

the U. S. Civil Rights Commission and was named Vice Chairman

of that commission by President Johnson in 1968.

ACTION:

For information.

C66115

• .

- 2-

-witzRocid: 32989643

Pade 11

---

## Page 12

55010-108

1N62 TOION

SIX OFR. 1O, NO. 27

LNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

• ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIED

DATE L0/6,00

Mists -=

091-1

Cor..

Cr.

MI. A. H. Belmon

IMEINI

• Nr. W. C. sullivapi

MARTIN LUTHER RING,

SECURITY MATTER • C

JR.

DATE: January 21, 1965

NT O

Belmont

mont

MT a

DeLoach

1

это

MI •

Sullivan

- MI.

J. A: Sizoo

1 - Mr. Baumgardner

Ts;

Traties

Toln. 130=

Kolnes _

Candy -

This morning hire Ralph meGitte publisher of the "Atlanta

constitution," Atlanta,

Georgia, and a long-time admirer of the Director,

dropped by the office to discuss with me Martin Luther King, JI. With

concerning King

1::

McGill told me that on being advised of the facts concerning King,

he has remained completely silent. As a result, he is being questioned

by associates in Atlanta,

Georgia,

as to why he

is not speaking out in

Iavor of ling and why he is not taking

an active part in the banquet

to be given King next Wednesday night. McGirL. said that he would never

disclose a confidence and, therefore,

his only reply is that he no

longer is an admirer of Martin Luther King.

Further, he has talked

with some other men who have told him of their knowledge of King's

Immorality and their concern about it. In view of this, he is free

to speak a little bit more in detail

and says he has done so for it

can be attributed to the men with whom he has spoken.

MCGill said that these men are Adlai Stevenson, Ralph Bunche,

land Harry Ashmore of the "Arkansas Gazette." He told me that Adlai

Stcvenson advised him without being questioned about King that he 15

laware of King's immoral activities.

Stevenson told McGill that he

¡considers king to be a "very dangerous man" to the civil rights movement

and that something should be done about it. Ralph Bunche told licGill

that he has never been an admirer of King's although he thinks King

has done some good things; that a few months ago he began hearing very

disturbing stories about king'summoral behavior.

Bunche believes that

•King should be maneuvered out of the civil rights field or else he

1111 do it serious damage. Mr. Ashmore, Ilkewise,

informed McGill that

li? had heard some time ago about King's

incredibly immoral activities.

"smore is very disturbed over it and wishes something could be done

suit he has no specific course to recommend.

ht. McGill told me that following my first discussion with him

" few weeks ago he contacted a banker friend in Atlanta who was helping

to finance the banquet to be given King next Wednesday night.

banker was disturbed and said he would contact some other bankers a1so

Enclosure S94E 6-22-65

1/ 8048

SCS: 2m2j (7)

This document is

"oresponse to your request

anales not for dissemi

nation outside 2102

relocats use is famited to

your committeelted the

official proceedings by

SEB dota 09613

nel without the express approudl. of the FBl

may nut be disclosed to unauthorzed person

Pagé 12

---

## Page 13

l'cmorandum to Mr. Belmont

No:

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

involved and see if support could be quietly withdrawn. McGill's

itiond and some of the bankers did take steps to withdraw but this

vixy quickly relayed to bankers in faiti who were on the throshold

! of an important flnancial deal with the Atlanta, Georgla, bankers.

They took the position that if the Atlanta bankers did not support the

nrtin Luther king party, thoir financial deal with these Georgla

• bankors vas off. As McGill said to me, the almighty dollar 15 still

extrencly important and especially so with badiers, and as a result

" sot cold feet a i decided to go ahead with Iinancing king's party.

McGill told me that Archbishop Hallinan, Catholic leader In

Gorgia, an Episcopal clexgyman and a Jewish rabbi are also quite activo

in support of this party for king.

He said that he is certain that not

one of these three is aware of King's inmoral behavio..

I told him

that in view of what Stevenson, Bunche,

and ishmore had told him, he

might want to explore very confidentially and discreetly the subject

¡matter with these three men. He said he would do this.

McGill told me that he thinks it is too late now, especially in

view of the financial interest of the Georgia bankers In the hali deal,

to prevent the banquet from taking place. However, McGill said he

would do what he could to encourage key

people to limit their praise

and support of King as much as possible.

McGill also told me that he is taking steps through Ralphbunche

to get key Negro leaders to unite in opposition to King and to

I Lorce him out of the civil rights movement if at all possible.

gradually

Mr. McGill said that

he would like to have President Johnson know

three things- (I) that fron diverse sources he has learned of the

Incredibly immoral behavior of Di. Martin Luther King, Jie, and his

deceiving of sincere, good people in this Nation who have been supportin?

King;@ that he regrets greatly that the banquet is being given in KiDz's

honor next week in Atlanta but that it has gone so fax that it is

probably not possible to head it off; and (3) that he believes that toc

very best thing that could happen would be to have King step completel;

out of the civil rights movement and public lile for he feels that 1f

this is not done, sooner or later king will be publicly exposed and thi

v121 do irreparable harm to the civil rights movement in which he,

BIcGill and others are so interested and have worked so hard for,

and

likewise, it will do injury to different citizens of the country who

¡ character.

supporting king not knowing that he is of such low moral

155987-DocId: 32981045-

Page

13

---

## Page 14

•S52,

•i.

leisórandum to Mr. Belmont

NO:

HARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

1x. McGilI said that tf he had had time to see Piesident

(Johnson before leaving Washington, he would have told him theso

throo things, out that he vanted the Director to know that he 1s

fice to quote him on these three potnts to the president and free

to put all three things in any communication that goes to the

linito House from the Bureau.

It is very refreshing to meet & man of McGill's stature in

I tho field of journalism who is so sincere and honest and desirous

of doing the right thing. He is a very admirable man. Repeatedly,

sir. icGill told me that he will continue to stay with this problem

and to think about it, hoping that he will devise sone plan or

course of action that will help to take King out of public life.

McGill told me in a visibly disturbed manner that this problem

contering around king has caused him to wake up at nighi from time

to time and he is very upset over it. McGill explained that whilo

he has never been close to king or an active supporter thereot, he

has been completely identitied and very active in furthering civil

rights and better conditions for the Negroes. He thinks that King's

¡bobavior now known to him when publicly exposed will do irreparable

(damage to such social causes that he and others have been sponsoring

throughout a lifetine.

RECOMMENDATION:

Enclosed will be found a letter to the White House setting

Iorth McGill's discussion for approval and forwarding. Inasmuch is

cGill mentioned only the President's getting this information, we

do not contemplate any further dissemination.

wess

3

55167 DooId: 32989643

Page 14

---

## Page 15

ALL INFORMATION CONTAIED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1016/60

Honosable B111 D. foyers

Spocial toadstant to the Fresident

The White House

Washingion, D. C.

Deze Nr. Hoyers:

- MS.

Belmont

Mohr

1

- Nir. Doloach

• Mx. Sullivan

January |22,

2965

BY LIAISON

1

J.

Sizoo

TO

Baungardner

F. Phillips

Linis

Tolson -

Belmont -

Mohr

DeLoach _

Casper -

Callahan.

Conrad _

Felt -

Gale.

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel.

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy

NW 55167

Hs. Raiph lIstill, publicher

5a0rgRE,

Esked a

ropresentative of this Bureau to cormunicate the following)

information to the president:

Ms. Mchill, who espressed

greas simiration for the Eresident, advised that in tha

recont past he has loarned from several sources- about they &

incrodibly immoral actsvities of Martin Luther Kins.

Ecsill emplained that ho uas shocked to learn of this

and

innediatoly coalized that serious consequences King's

4.0OM

misbehavior could nave fo% the civil rights movement in

which lis. letill has boen actively interested for years.

Kis. Mceill made thres poinés:

(1) that from

diverse sources he has learned of the incredibly innoral

behavior of King, and of Ring's decoiving os sincere,

good people in this Nation nho have been supporting

: King:

(2) that he regrets groadly that a banquet is being

fiven in Ring's honor next veok in Atlanta,

but that

arrangements have now reached the point i

is probably

not possible. to prevent the banguet; and (3) that he

believes that the vosy beot thing that eould happen

would be

to have king stop completely out of the civil

sights movement and public l1to for he feels that 12

this is noc done,

sooner or later King u11l bo publicly

exposed.

Me. Lictill believes that an exposure of King

0323:7

-arabio ham to tho civil slande novenent in

which is,

". licGall, and others are so interestod and

have worked so hard sor; and likonise it will do injury

to dissorons cicioons of tio country uho have bosn

supporting King, not

knowing of King's, strange behavios.

WCS/SrP: jad

REC-

326 /""

(9)

SEE

NORE

PAGE TWO.

This dagument is prepared in response 1l equest anuaadi so lemi-

nation outside your Committee.

'is use is limited to official proceedings bu

you Connittee and the content may nut be arsclosed to unauthorized person

I MAL RoOM neirunthortche express approval of the FBl.

DocId: 32989643

Page

15

20 All

1756

---

## Page 16

Lonorable BiLL 1. Hoyers

Niz. HcG121 told this Bureau's rapresentativa that

is it had not been

necessary for him to leavo Washington, D. C.,

inmediately, he would hava liked to sonvey this massage

to the President in person.

Rowever, in view of the

necessity los his hasty departure, he asked that his viens

be transmitted to the Isesidone by the fBi.

Sincerely yours,

NONE:

A. H.

King,

cover memorandum Mi. W.

Sullivan io

Belmont,

dated 1/21/65,

captioned "Martin Luther

Security Matter - Conmunist," prepared by HCS:Iml.

..:.r.

NW 55167

DocId: 32989643

Page 16

---

## Page 17

70

!

SCHJICT:

OPTIGNAL PORM 1ÃO. 10

3010-106

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SIr. A. H. Belmont l

To".

11. 8

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE!

DATE: 1/16/64

]

: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

COMMUNIST PARTY,

USA

NEGRO QUESTION

1

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

INTORNAL SECURITY • C

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

- Mix.

Belmont

Mx.

Sullivan

Mr.

Baungardner

-

hir.

Forsyth

Ryan

- MI.

Philliys

To on!

Tro.

Yesterday afternoon (1/15/64) I talked on the telephone

with our Atlanta office and at that the spoke with sA Aiden f.

Miller who is working on the Maitin Luther King case.

advised me that he is a very close personal triend of fugenes Ply

Patterson, Editor of the "Atlanta Constitution." Realizing

what a

scoundrel King 15,

• Itler began to think about

possible ways and

means of exposing King which would be of benefit to the Bureau..

While talking to Patterson on other matters, Miller theorized with

Patterson about men of questionable character in public life and

did Patterson think they should be exposed.

Patterson took a strong

stand on the matter and said it would be a

people were exposed.

public service if some

Of course, no reference at all vas made to

King by Miller. Miller said that kaowing Patterson personally and,

getting his views indirectly on this general subject matter leads

Miller to believe that it at any time in the future the Bureau

would want to utilize Patterson and his newspaper it could be

done

vexy securely.

I thanked Miller

for his interest in this matter and

told

him that this type of thing would be handled out of the Bureau

headquarters and that if we thought this particular person could be

utilized he would be advised but to take no action until that time.

ACTION:

7.1ud

• For the record.

200-3-116

NCS:eeb (8)2cl,

000500

REG: 45

w146

This document is prepared in respirato your remes and it

nation outside your Committee.

sot for dissemi

to official proceedings by

disclosed to unauthorized person

Nk: 5516Z-DocId: 32989643

Page

17

---

## Page 18

) Prosaurs From FBI,

Azanta Leaders Report

aritas.

P. 2A

Seror prominent

Atlan-

tans Monday said they were

not amore, in lous, of any at-

compts do Fail agents do per-

slade them they should not

illend a dinner to honor the

lade Dr. Martin Luther King

Jr.

dormer Mayor Ivan Allen

Jr. Mayor Sam Massell, for-

mes Atlanta Police Chief Her-

lord d. Jonkins and Ilolen

jullurd, one of the white

organisors of the dinner for

Ur. limg, said they iccalled

no such activily on the part of

the kal.

They were reacting to staic-

by

Arthur

Murtagh,

noir it lawyer in Constable,

1i.):, but for 11 years (until

Will an agent in the Fil

¿padquarters in Atlanta, in an

intorview with the New York

Times.

Murlagh

told the imes

among other things that the

FBI had used information it

obtained through electronic

survcillance in

an effort to

discredit the civil rights Icad-

er among his white backers.

To The

Atlanta Journal

Mondes, Murtagh reitcrated

something clic he had said-

that there lad been a well-

orchestrated eifort. by the

Flt to discourigo attendance

of shite loaders at the din-

ser in long which was organ-

ized to no moledge ding's re-

sent of the

Nobel leace

Prize a few months carlier

(in (Atobor 1661).

1f key Atlantans lile those

already named do not rocall

such actisily by lill agent,

I may has because they don t

sand 1o, Murlagh stoutly

faintained Mondily.

"I think some nf these pea

ple might iut trant to give

the information cren if they

knew," he said.

Murtag did say the gist of

what lB1 agents were al-

tempting to do was lo con-

vince people, including a cou-

pie of Alanta clertmen and

the Jate Ralph Megill, pul-

lisher of The Atlanta Constitu

tion, that king, though

marrie and projecting the

image of a moral leader, was

having affairs on the side with

various womch.

"What

Bugene Patterson

(former editor of The Consti-

tution) says (in the New York

Tines article published Non-

day) is what it's all about,,

said Murtagh.

Patterson,

now president

and publisher of the St. Ye

tersburg (Fla.) Times, said in

I'BI agent had called on him

almost a year before the din-

ner in King's honor and told

him King was known to be

running around with women.

Foriner Mayor Allen, who

attended the diner given for

King, said flatly that he could

rccall no such activity on the

part of the FBI. Allen said he

even chocked back into his

papers to refresh his memory.

Miss Bullard did recall that

there had been

sonic whife

business leaders who resisted

the idea of the city's honorits

Dr. King. But she said this ini-

tial resistance by a nominal

number of

persons

largely

vanished by the time the dir

ner came off.

"I think nearly everybody

was there," recalled Miss Bul-

Jard. "The real creme de

crome was there that night

mol you fine, let

as

Enclosure

Motosuns

Murtagh said from his

homo Monday that bi3-recor

Icctions about

incidents in

Atlanta will be included in a

book he now is writing and

would not have bee: brought

out now except for the Water-

gale affair.

"My emphasis on this is in

getting reform in the bureau

(the F'BI) and the only reason

I got into it is because of the

Watergate

affair. I believe

now that some of what I will

be saying in my book will be

bellovable in light of that

(Watergalc)."

Murtagh did gain credibility

among some persons herc in

respect to the central staic-

ment that Dr. King was unders

surveillance by the FBI dur-

ing the carly and mid-'60s.

"He believed his telephono

was buggcd and I thought

mine probably was 100," said

Maj. Howard Baugh of the

Atlanta ; Police

Department.

Baugh,

who is black, knew

King quite well.

Former Police Chief Jen-

Kins said: "A lot of things that

are a surprise to other people

(révelations in the Watergate

affair) aren't any surprise to

me."

The Rev. Ralph David!

Abernathy,

King's close as-

sociale during the '60s and his

suecessor as head of the i

Southern Christian Leadership

Conference,

said Murtagh is

"Ielling the truth."

Atlanta Journal

Atlanta, Ga.

Da!r:

5/21/73

Caltra: Evoning

Author: Raleigh

Tryon

Paor Rag Murphy

711):

COMINFIL

SCL.C

Clerari,::

SCLC

100-571

Atlant.

11!.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIED

NWSBTETS-D04E4+32082043

---

## Page 19

(4-en1(li,

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

nl15167

1005 B INQUET

Ex-Officials Deny

FBI Calls on King

Atlanta officials

licitner, currently a candidate for

Monday denied having been contacted in

mayor, said he was a sponsor of the din-

Juan by red agents trying to talk them.

nor but had not attended because he was

mit of attending a banquet honoring Di.

in Washington at the tinie.

Martm Luther King Jr.

However,

he said, "no one in any

Demals of Fil inorference merc is-

official capacily ever suggested that I do

sued my Mayor Sam Massell (then vice

ut not do anything in regard to Dr.

mayor. former Mayor Ivan Allen

and former li.S. Congressman Charles

The Rev. Edward A. Driscoll, then

Hellner.

executive director of the Georgia Council

Former Police Chief Herbert T. Jen-

of Churches and an organizer of the din-

kins declined comment and said. "I'd

have to go back and refresh my memo-

ner, said there were "no overt acts lo-

ward me or specific aclions, none of

,Yy."

The officials were responding in a

story in lso Constitution Alonday quoting

Arthur Marlagh, an mostale Now York

Dinger and 11 goar votern of the Allan-

la Be office, Who maid amonds tried 1o

dissade loeal communily loaders trom

attending a diner in honor of King's

winning the Nobel Peace Prize.

that they. had information abouf king,

derived from wiretaps, that could prove

an embarrassment to persons attending

the testimonial.

As il turned out. the dinner was con-

sidered a success as some 1.500 persons

meluding the major Atlanta political fig-

wes of the day. turned

creting of Jan. 27, 1905, at the Dinkler

Former Mayor Allen said he receir-

ed "no contact lo my knowiedgo

ОГ

memers and I did not hear and gossip

Allen

coolined that there sore

some dificules gotting the banquet

meanier!.

"It was the first fully ine-

grateel dinner many dosnton Allanta

hotel. Their sere problerns gotting the

diner logotties, bad not the kind this

man burtagh regoried. the former

1r00 3.1101

The corner was held more than

three monibs aller king was amounced

in 1h0 Ali Depool at The cos eded peace

101/19)

DocId: 32989643

Page

The only problem with the dinner,

Rev. Driscoll recalled, was that "ot the

carly stages no great monientum could'

he gonorated. Then a small grouy got. lo.

gother and decided ... that this wak

something we couldn't pass up. l was al

honor In the city."

Despite Allen's recollection that "a:

great number of threals" were reported

to the Atlanta police before the dinner,

only one notable incident took place.

As Dr. King and his family arrived

at the downtown hotch, restaurant owner

Charles Lebodin stood on the sidewalk

and shouted,

"Peace ... peace ... peace

with violence! Peace A lot of baloncy!"

Leb's restaurant had hech the target

of mass sit-in dicmonstrations spearhead-

ed by the Student Non-Violent Coordinat-

ing Committec.

However, Lebodin said Alonday that

"no one called me.

when asked if lie

had been contacted by the fBI.

The only former official ho did not

formally dor contaels from the FBi

was former Police Chief Jenkins. Asked

if he could romember and calls, Jenkins

salich, "I'd rather not be quoted on that.";

= Georgia

Son.

fernan Talmades.

Who did not hare any connection with the

dinner.

but who was quoted as being

shocked that the price price would be

Hiven do "persons who adoredle las-

Dreaking."

Histly denied Monday that

anyone had contacted him.

Enclosure

Enclosura

...

P.

9A

Atlanta Conrti::'

Atlanta, Ga.

Duic:

5/22/73

Autier:

Leil: is:

Reg "ten!!

Tille:

COMINFIL

SCLC

Chari::: SCIC

Giris! : 100-5.

¡ì!..

:. **

---

## Page 20

C1'-350 (Rev. 7-16-63)

toranti+ 099755

1r'97.

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

Rev. King's banquet

lasted by 1 antain

ATLANTA - In a recent

letter to The

Times a Neiv

Yorker asked a fair question

about the King testimonial

affair but it is unlikely that he

will get a satisfactory answer

from those who promoted or

attended the soiree.

A lot of us also wonder why

all the whoop-de-do for a man

who denounced rescue of white

missionaries from an army of

murderous

cannibals;

who

taught at a school considered

to be un-American and

per-

haps subversive; who collabo-

rates with a man whose moral

and

political

background

suspect: who is a disciple of

Gandhi but nevertheless pre-

fers the lush to the simple life:

who chickened out on solemn

vows to stay in jail until he

got his way;

who went along

"lie" about use if

government transportation uil-

til the evidence became

ovel'-

whelming,

then tried to laugh

it off;

who

nudges children

into the front lines of contro-

versies

and demonstrations;

who is opposed to the House

Committee on

Un-American

Activities; who admits that he

is immune to criticism and ap-

pears not to care whether Ne-

groes,

whites, integrationists,

segregationists, labor or any-

one else gets hurt by his acti-

vities such as the boycotts he

promotes; who teaches his fol.

lowers to complain but seldom,

if ever, urges them to develop

talents and skills or do con-

structive rather than negative

thinking;

who

indicated

in-

terest in holding conversations

with the dictator Ben Bella,

* and who made irresponsible

statements abroad about his

homeland.

This list could go on and in

but the questions are likely to

renjain unanswered by Rey.

King's torch-bearers.

7 Cilian 1% 1803

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERE WING ON S

100-104470

Page 4.

The Atlanta Times

Atlanta, Georgia

Date:

2/27/65

Edition:

Final

Author:

Editor:

Luke Greene

Har tin luther King, Is.

Character: RM

Classification:

Submitting Office: Atlanta

Sa Being Investigated

100-106671-11-

" mercia

MA do tais

Page 20

---

## Page 21

0-20 ReV: 12-19-611

Il!:

Tolson -

Belmont _

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFED

DATE 10/14/00

- вудно

Casper -

Callahan -

Contad -

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele Room

Holmes -

Gandy

• UPI-231

MASTIN LUTHEP

TRIBUTE TA RIS HOM TOWN TONTGNTING JR. WAS PAID A STIRRING PUBLIC

HE CALLED CN *MILLIONS OF PECPLE

OF GODWILL" IN THE WHITE SOUTH

TO RAISE THEIR SILENT VOICES CN

THE RACE ISSUE.

IN THE INTEREST OF HUMAN DIGNITY AND FOR

=IN THE NAME OF GODSTHESE MILLIONS ARE CALLED UPON TO GIRD THEIR

OF DEMOCRACY

COURAGE, TO SPEAK OUT, TO CFFER LEADERSHIP THAT IS NEEDED, " KING

THE NEGRO INTEGRATION LEADER SPOKE BEFORE MORE THAN 1,500 OF HIS

FELLCK TOWNSMEN--WHITE AND NEGRO--GATHERED IN

A PLUSH DOWNTOUN HOTEL

BALLROON TO PAY TRIBUTE TO HIM AS WINNER OF THE 1964 NOBEL PEACE

PRIZE.

THE HUGE BANQUET FOR KING WAS UNIQUE IN ATLANTA FOR A NEGRO.

NEAREST APPROACH TOCK PLACE S8

YEARS AGO IN

A CITY PARK WHEN BOOKER

WASHINGTON DELIVERED HIS FANCUS "CAST DOWN YOUR BUCKETS WHERE

YOU ARE" ADDRESS AT THE COTTON STATES EXFOSITICN IN 1895.

IN THAT

SPEECH WASHINGTCN URGED NEGROES TO THROW ASIDE THE ROUTINE AND TAKE

ADVANTAGE CY THE CPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE TO THEM.

KING PLEDGED TO CONTINUE HIS FIGHT TC END EVERY FACET OF RACIAL

AT TA GO NO LONG AT TO GO BE ACT JUsticE 1s

HE SAID THE NEGROES:

1 FUST NOT SEEK TO SUBSTITUTE ONE TYRANNY FOR ANOTHER.

AIM "MUST NEVER BE TO DEFEAT OR HUMILIATE

BUT TO WIN HIS FRIENDSHIP AND UNDERSTANDING.

ICE PLACK SUPREMACY IS AS DANGEROUS AS A

A DOCTRINE

DOCTRINE OF WHITE SUPREMACY, "

HE SAID.

1/27--N 74 5PES

132-106670-AFde

HOT RECORDED

A16 FEB 4 1965

100-106675

FFB5

1965

NW 55167-DOETS 32989643. Bage, LASHINGTON CAPITAL NEWS SERVICE

---

## Page 22

D3:0 (Rog. 12-64-64)

Tolson -

Belmont -

Mohr _

DeLoach -

Casper -

Callahan -

Conrad -

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele Room

Holmes —

Gandy -

1

UPI -260

ATLANTA (UPI-251)

CHE BRIEF NUT NOLSY RACIAL ARCIDENT BY TWO WHITE MIN OCCURRED

HIS WIFE END CHILDREN,

ARRIORD AI THE HOTEL.

WINDING

JP THE UNUSUAL EVENING CE TRIBUE

THE ENTIRE AUDIENCE OF

WHITES AND NEGROES SANG THE INTEGRATION CAMPAIGN SCAG

"TE SHALL OVERCONE."

JACOB ROTHCPILD,

AN ATLANTA RABBI WHOSE

SWAGOGUE WAS BOMBED

SEVERAL YEARS AGÓ SAID: "NEVER I THINK HAS IT

BEEN SUNG LITER SUCH CHRCUESTANGESE IN SUCH A PLACE AND BA SUCH

GAIPERING AS HE HAVE HERE TONIGHT.

ATLANTA'S

TOP POCFESSIONAL AND

PUSINESS EXECUTIVES AS WELL AS

LEADERS FRON THE PROTESTANT

CATHCLIC AVD JEWISH RELIGIONS ATTENCED

AND SCINED

HES BANQUET TO OVERCOME

TOGETHER IN SINGING THE

MANY OF THEM

HAD WORKED

STRONG FEELINGS AMONG SOME OF THE CITY'S

TCP PLANNERS WHO KAD FROWNED CN TFE BANQUET BECAUSE OF KING'S

CCNTROVERSIAL

SONS CAN THE LAST ERE L NOT ME STRUGSLE

INCLUDING LEADING NEGRO WORKERS IN A RECENT

ThE SCRIPTO COMPANY.

KING SAID ONE

AGAINST TRADITICNAL SOUTHERN RACIAL BARRIERS "WAS NOT THE

VITRICLIC WORDS AND

THE VICLENT ACTIONS OF THE BAD PEOPLE

RUT THE APPALLING SILENCE AND INDIFFERENCE OF THE GOOD PECPLE.

1/27--N112 OPES

2

NW

55167 DocId: 32989643 Page #BASHINGTON CAPITAL NEWS SERVICE

---

## Page 23

iner (they, 12-14-61)

i'd'

Tolson _

Belmont -

Mohi -

DeLoach -

Casper -

Callahan .

Conrad -

Felt -

Gale _

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel _

Trotter -

Tele Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

• UP1-761

ACD KING ATLANTA

ALTHCUGH THE BANQJET GOT OFF TO A CONTROVERSIAL START

IN THE

CITY FCR LACK CF

CIVIC BACKING

SPONSORS IN THE END WERE SWAMPED

WITH TICKET

REQUESTS AT S6.50 APIECE

THAN 500

APPLICANTS.

THEY FINALLY TURNED AWAY

IVAN ALLEN LED THE LIST OF SPONSORS FCR

THE EVENT.

DURING

THE BANQUET,

KING'S WIFE AND CHILDREN--WHO SELDOM SEE HIM

PECAUSE OF HIS CONSTANT TRAVELING--CAT BY HIS SIDE

MARTIN LUTHER

WAS ALSO

THERE

HIS FATHER

THE YOUNGER KING IS

ASSISTANT PASTOR

HIS FATHER'S ATLANTA CHURCH.

AS KING AND FIS FAMILY APRIVED AT THE HOTEL

A WHITE MAY C

CHARLES

LEPEDIN BEGAN YELLING

WHAT A LOT OF BALONEY.

IS GUNER OF PLEBISE A POPELAS POINTONA PESTAURANT ABOUT ONE BLOCK FROM

IF HOTEL•

THE RESTAURANT WAS A LONGTIME TARGET OF MILITAN!

INTEGRATIONISTS A YEA:

AGO, LEPEDIN WAS JOINED BY ONE OF HIS

MANAGERS

A PIECE

WHO CALLED OUT:

"I OUGHT

TO GIVE HIM (KING)

FIST.

THEN POLICE CHIEF HERBERT JENKINS

WHO WAS IN CIVILIAN CLOTHES

APERCACHED

THE MANAGER

HE LEFT THE LORBY SAYING: "WHAT A HULLABALLOO

CVER THAT NIGGER O

AHEAD AND ARREST ME. I DON'T CARE.*

1/27- N1139PES

3

WASHINGTON CAPITAL NEWS SERVICE

2NW 55167 DocId: 32989643

Page 23

---

## Page 24

FD-350 (Rev. 1=16-63)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TEREN SUNGLA BY BA

DATE 10/000

In Doing Honor to Dr. King, Allanta

Did Honor to Itself Before the World

In doing honor to Dr. Martin Luther King,

that the Nobel committee honored Dr. King,

recipient of the 1964 Nobel Prize for Peace,

and it was that conviction in particular that

Atlanta also did honor to itself.

Atlantans saluted Wednesday night. It is a

philosophy that the world could well pray

For this act represented the graciousness

will prevail in the resolving of so many con-

and good sense for which Atlanta is dis-

flicting interests: one that resists evil without

tinguishing itself.

violence and seeks to expunge hatred with

love.

" The holding of the dinner, with its impres-

sive crass-section of the

city's white

and

Roman Catholic Archbishop Paul J. Hall!-

Negro communities, in itself spoke profound-

nan aptly epitomized it with

the observatic

ly of the progress that has bèen made in

that "it is as explosive as it is majestic. It

racial justice. Ten years ago, such a gather-

is from the 118th Psalm... I will walk i

ing would have been impossible not because

O Lord, because

I seek Thy pre-

Atlanta lacked men of goodwill, but because

custom and law would have barred the way.

It was especially appropriate that religious

Progress in the past decade has come in

leaders-Protestant,

Jewish

and

Catholic,

many modes by court order, by di'ect action

white and black-played so prominent a role

demonstrations, by act of Congress and, most

in the dinner here.

important, by individuals'

examination of

Through radio network and the Voice

thair own consciences.

America, the nation and the world listened as

'In the public mind, Dr. King is most com-

monly identified with protest actions, includ-

business and civic leaders, and interested citi-

ing their excesses, and because of this he is a

zens gathered to honor this Nobel Prize win-

controversial figure.

ner: For those in attendance, it was a stirring

evening. For Atlanta, it brought the respect

But it yas more for his religious conviction

of the world.

NOT RECORDED

46 FEB 8 1965

5QFE0€

aп..

1365

NW. 55157 DocTd:32989643 Page 24

.*".

=. к. і:

C

Sir.

Ite.

Втії.

"I-can

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

Bour

Page 4

The Atlanta

Constitution,

Atlanta,

Georgia

Date:

1/29/65

Edition: Morning

Author:

Editor:

Title:

EUGENE PATTERSON

MARTIN LUTIER

KTNG, JR.

Character:

IS - C

or

Classification:

Submitting Office: Atlanta

Being Investigated

yell

195-10%.

tigar to 5549995717

---

## Page 25

"-1" (RoW. 10-1-64)

* ATLANYA PRAISES

DR. KING AT FETE

Integration Leader Hongred

for Winning Nobel Prize

By F'RED POWLEDUE

Special to The New York Tinies

ATLANTA,

Jan. 27 - The

Rev. Martin Luther Iing Jr. re-

ceived praise tonight from the

leaders of a city that once ai-

rested him in a sit-in demon-

stration.

The Atlantans, many of lhem

White,

gathered

at

a

testi-

monial dinner

to give a spe-

cially commissioned

Steuben

glass bowl to the 36-year-old

Negro integrationist in recog-

: nition of his winning the Nobel

• Peace Prize last year.

The bowl contained a repre-

sentation of a dogwood flower

and the inscription:

"To Dr. Martin Luther King

tr., Citizen of Atlanta, Recipi-

eni vi the 1001

Nobel Peace

Prize, with respect and admira-

tion, January 27, 1965."

Atlanta has long been known

as the "Dogwood City,"

Tonight's presentation, and

the planning of it, were sym-l

bolic of Atlanta's attitude

on

race relations.

MIcsitation at First

At first,

members

of

the

cily's white power structure

were hesitant about endorsing

& testimonial dinner for a Negro

leader who has been responsible

for so much desegregation in

the South. There were moments

aller the planning started six

or eight weeks ago when it ap-

peared that the dinner could not

be held because of internal con-

flicts.

Some members of the finan-

cia! Icadership-men

who have

made many of the city's previ-

o's decisions on whether and

has to desegregate-met and

i reded not to becone sponsors,

of the affair. While they were

doberating,

however,

many

cations

welcomed the

opportu-

¿ay to sign on as sponsors and!

th' dinner became a sell-out.

Sume Atlanta integrationists

sere

chuckling today

over

gel documented

report

that

minoral of the companies ind

k'ho

had declired

'esorchip had later asked for

was of tickets for the $6.51)-

a pite dinner. There were nöt

igh

tickets

left, however.

sit some had to go without.

56FEB3

1963

55167

Doold: 32989643

men Store,

One concern sce Depart

reported

have asked for 20 tickets, but

got only

four. It was on

the

sixth floor of Rich's, in an eat-

ing place

called the Magnolia

Room, that Dr. King was ar-

rested on

Oct.

18, 1960, when

he sought service with a grou

of Negro students from Atlan-

ta University.

The slight,

soft-spoken Bap-

tist minister

said

at the time

that his family had spent $4.500

at Rich's during

year and that he felt he should

ve as welcome in the Magnolit

Room as in the clothing depart

ment.

An Issue Long Debated

The issue that Dr. King and

the students raised in 1960 be-

came an issue that the city

debated for many months.

In

each instance,

the city's politi-

cal and financial leaders agreedi

that the reputation of the grow-

ing

city,

the

largest in

the

Southeast,

would

be

gravely

damaged by racial trouble.

The

result was

widespread

desegregation of most city

cilitics,

fa-

from schools to swim-

I ming pools.

Tastefully dressed

Negro women, tired from shop.

at Rich's,

not ston in

the Magnolia Room for a lunch-

eon salad and few whites raise

their eyebrows.

The situation is the same in

almost all of the city's other

respectable eating places.

Of the 102 sponsors

for

banquet,

about

75 were

the

white.

They included the presidents of

Emory and Oglethorpe Univer-

sities

and Agnes

Morehouse

Scott

and

Colleges;

lawyers,

real-estate

leading

nancial

executives,

men,

fi-

and archi-

tects; city

political leaders,

di-

rectors of Atlanta-based human-

relations

groups,

newspaper

people, and ministers.

Also

among

the

sponsors

were the state's two Negro Sena-

tors, Leroy Johnson and Horace

T. Ward. Senator Johnson was

the first member of his race to

be elected to the Georgia Legis-

lature since Reconstruction.

The dinner was held in

the

Dingler Plaza Hotel, which once

had a policy of rigid discrimis

nation

against Nerroes.

The

hotel desegregated last summer

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1016 VI

L BYSALAA

zele.

180-106670

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

DeLoach

Casper-

Callahan

Conrad

Evans -

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele Room

Holmes

Gandy -

(face)

1102-106670-4-

ROT RECORDED

176 FEB 3 1965

The Washington Post and -

fines Herald

The Washington Daily News

The Evening Star -

New York Herald Tribune

New York Journal-American

New York Mirror -

New York Daily News -

New York Post

The New York Times 125)

The Worker .

The New Leader

The Wall Street Journal -

The National Observer -

People's World - 25=65

Date -

Page F. B

---

## Page 26

I'D-350 (Flov. 7-16-63)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

1,500 Jointo Honor

Nobel Winner King

By TED SIMMONS

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was paid tribute Wednesday night

by a standing-room-only crowd of more than 1,500 representing

His hometown's business, civic, political and religious leaders.

Mayor Ivan Allen Jr. led the is willing to turn the other cheek

fraise for the 1964 Nobel Peace

Trize winner when he told the

in his quest for full citizenship

for all Americans."

audience of whites and Negroes:

"Through the years. as his-

"At the conclusion of the three!

tory is wrought, some men are

i hour attair at the Dinkler Plaza!

destined to be leaders of human-

Rabbi Jacob Rothschild of The

ity and

to shape the future

Temple presented Dr. King with

courses of the world. Dr. Martin

a Steuben

bowl inscribed

with

Ruther King Jr. is such a man

a dogwood blossom, symbol of

"I take great pride in honor-

Atlanta.

ing this citizen of Atlanta who

The inscription read: "Doctor

Martin Luther King Jr., cilizen

if Atlanta, recipient of the 196%

Nobel Peace Prize. With Respec

and Admiration."

SYMBOL OF ESTEEM

In presenting the gift, Rabbi

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Rothschild called it a "symbol

of the esteem in which so many

of your fellow Atlantans hold

you."

I The banquet, sponsored by 130

F the cily's

leading citizens,

sient off with

only

one mino?

incident. When Dr. King and hit

family

appeared

at the holel.

- restaurant owner Charlie Leb

stood

on

the

sidewalk

and

shouted,

shoute win violence Peace! i

‚lot of baloney!"

Leb's

restaurant was

the'

target of mass sit-in demon-

strations spearheaded by the

Student Non-Violent Coordinat

ing Committee prior to passag

"of the Civil Rights Act.

1/12

NOT RECORDED

46 FEB 8 1965

NW 55167

DocId: 32989643

Page 26

*I I a Mite Sinnia

Mr.

SERE

55:

"3%

T:1s

• Mr. r.--n

sir.

Mr.

• Tol, ii:

tres is

"*2

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

Page 9

The Atlanta

Constitution,

Atlanta

Georgia

#Date:

1/28/65

Edition: Morning

Author:

TED SIDDONS

Editor:

EUGENE PATTERS

Title:

MARTIN LUTHER

QRING, TRA

Charactes:

IS - C

of

Classification:

Submitting Office: Atlanta

17 Being Investigated

Sile

106670

100

---

## Page 27

IGNORES INCIDZAH

' Dr. King, who appeared to

ignore the incident on the side,

walk, later told the crowd in hit

address that there are in the

"white South millions of peo

ple of good will, whose voices

are yet unheara, whose course

yet

unclear,

whose

courageous

seen."

acts

are yet un-

He called on those people "in

the name of God, in the interest

of human dignity and for thei

cause of Democracy

soeak

out, to offer

the leader.

ship that is needed.'

OTHER TRIBUTES

"It the people of good will of!

He white South fail to act now,

history will have to record that

thri greatsoci

tragedy

of this

of social transition was

not the vitriolic words and the

violent actions of the bad peo-

and indifference

ole but three ling silend

people," he said. "Our genera-

tion will have to repent not

Joining

Mayor

Allen

and

Rabbi Rothschild in tributes to

King were the Rev. Paul J. Hal-

linan, Roman

Catholic

arch-

¡ bishop

of

Atlanta,

state Sen.

Johnson, the Rev. Ed-

ward A. Driscoll, executive di-

rector of the Georgia Council

of Churches, Bishop

Ernest 5

lickman. and Dr. Beniamin I

Mays, president of Morehouse

Gollege®®

MTDo0d82989542 Page 27

---

## Page 28

444P: 444013444+074745824

Staff Photo-Billy Downs

DR. KING RECEIVES GIFT FROM CITY'S LEADERS

em Presentation Is Made by Rabbi Rothschild

---

## Page 29

1-19 (ROv-10-1-64)

Home Town

Pays Tribute

To Dr. Kingi

ATLANTA, Jan. 27 (UPI)

The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther

King Jr. was paid a

stirring

public tribute

in. his home

town tonight.

on

"millions of people of

good-

will" in the white South

to

raise their silent voices on the

race issue.

"In the name of God, in the

interest of human dignity and

for the cause of democracy

these millions are called upon l

to

gird their courage,

to

speak out, to offer leadership

that is needed," Dr. King

said.

The Negro integration lead-

er spoke before more than 1500

of his fellow townsmen-white

and Negro -

gathered in a

downtown hotel ballroom to

pay tribute to him as winner

at the 1904 Nodel reace rrize.

The audience included a large

number of the city's religious,

business and professional

saders.

Dr. King. said the greatest

period

of

social

transition

"was not the vitriolic words

and the violent actions of the

bad people but the appalling

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

silence and indifference of the

¡good people."

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

• BYSORALMOL

He said the mighty challenge

Nof today in the South is

"to

DATE L0/16,00

rise from the sins of a dark

yesterday

to

positive

achievements of a

bright

F08 R.B8.

Edits

FEB 4 1965

Dr. King concluded his pre-

pared address with the words

of a Negro slave preacher

"Lord. we ain't what w

ought to be;

"We ain't what we want

to be;

"We ain't what we gonna be;

"But thank God, we ain't

what we was."

Dr. King's wife and children

were by his

stood

side.

His father

in the receiving

line

with former Mayor William

B. Hartsfield.

The banquet got off to a!

shaky start for lack of civic

backing, but sponsors eventu-

fally were swamped with ticket

requests at $6.50 each and fi-

nally turned away more than

¡500 applicants. Mayor Ivan

Allen led the list of sponsors.

cX55167 DocId: 32989643

Page 29

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr —

De Loach

Casper_

Callahan

Conrad -

Evans -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

Whitle

(lust)

1100-106676-1710

NOT RECORDED

176 FEB 4 1965

The Washingion Post and A 4

Times Herald

The Washington Daily News -

The Evening Star

New York Herald Tribune

New York Journal-American

New York Mirror .

New York Daily News .

New York Post

The New York Times -

The Worker -

180-105670 The New Leader..

The Wall Street Journal

The National Observer

People's World

Date 1-2? 6 - 65"

---

## Page 30

57-350 ReV: 7-16-631

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

Allantans

Pay Tribute

To Dr. King

By PAUL VALENTINE

More than

1,500 person,

jammed the Dinkler Plaza Hor

tel Wednesday night to pay trib

ule to

the

first Georgia-born

Nobel Peace Prize winner, Dr.:

Marn Tuner King Jr.

It marked the only large-scale

formal recognition of the Negro

civil rights leader in the state

since he was announced winner

of the Peace Prize last October.

"Tonight,

Atlanta

affirns

what the world has already at-

firmed," was the way Roman

Catholic Archbishop of Atlanta

Rev. Paul J. Hallinan put it.

¿The archbishop

and

several

other civic

and religious lead-

ers of the city praised Dr. King

in a round of speeches before

the standing-room-only crowd.

• A number of police officers

were also on hand for antici-

pated picketing of the King triki-

tie. But no organized anti-Kin

elfort materialized

CHARLES LEBEDIN, owne

1 Leb's Restaurant, appeare

brieily in front of

the hotel,

however, with three or four as-

sociates waiting for Dr. King's

arrival.

Asked why he had not formed

in anticipated picket line, Mill

iebedin said,

"I couldn't get'

anyone mith the guts to com:

but herestonight"

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREN IS UNCLASSIFIEC

, Moments later, when Dr. King

and his wife arrived, Mr. Lebe

cin shouted:

l"Peace, peace-and violenc.

¿ A lot of baloney. Peace."

Leb's Restaurant was the fo

Ical point of desegregation at-

¡tempts last winter in a. series

of massive demonstrations

sponsored by the Student Nonvi-

Telent Coordinating Committer

• (SNCC).

Mayor Ivan Allen was among

the city

leaders praising Dr

King.

"Some men are destined to

be leaders in the world." said

the mayor.

.. The philosophy

of the nonviolent movement is

being proved

. This method

of social revolution has been ac-

claimed by the Nobel Peace

Prize."

In his speech of response, Dr

King said:

"The issue is no longer wheth-

ct segregation and discrimina-

tion will be eliminated but how

they will pass from the Amer-

ican scene.

"The deep rumbling of dis-

content that we hear today is

the thunder of disinherited

niasses, rising from dungeons of

appression to the bright hills di

fjeedom."

'NOT RECORDED

46 FEB & 1965

WIPES ERADIEST FAt

FEB

NW S167 0019652989643

Lage

30

: "r.

.:.

1. C

-"".

"".?

"..a

Fui

--:.

31.

" L.

Sui.

Tar

-"i.

Tro

P0.i9

i citin:

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

_5':

Page 12

The Atlanta Journal,

Atlanta, Georgia

Date:

1/28/65

Edition:

Final

Author:

PAUL VALENTINE

Editor:

JACK SPALDING

Title:

MARTIN LUTHER

0 KING, JR:

Character:

IS - C

Classification:

Submitting Office: Atlanta

1 Being Investigated

00-1061

---

## Page 31

5293544-12

DR. KING erreD progress in!

Rights Act.

and showing remarkable good

fore re dial justice is a reality

He said soutner churches and,

their leaders still practice seg

clock a sunday ming, tic

when

many

standing to sing 'In Christ There

THE KING TRIBUTE and

21:20

Ww.554tDocId: 32989643 Page 31

---

## Page 32

mở

MARTIN

LUTH

Honored

at

Dinn

NW 5516/-Dg9edm12989643 Fage 32

---

## Page 33

FD-350 (ReY 7-16-63)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

i Mr. Talesn

#o: 5019076

Craner

Ir. Ca!

1-77--

Tar.

P.1t.

Rain

".".

saiss

Atlantans pa

King tribute

By BEN CHESTER

Times Staff Writer

Singing "We Shall Overcome,"

more than 1,400 Atlantans paid

precedented tribute Wednes

day night to one of the world's

most

influential Negroes, Dr.

partin Luther King Jr.

The Crowd, made up of what

be more

whitfs

Negroes,

jammed

tie

Dinkler

Plaza

Hotel ballroom

10 ailend ine event, describud

as

Atlanta's

largest

racially

mixed meeting in history.

No incidents marred the three-

hour program given in recogni-

tion of King as recipient of the

1964 Nobel Peace Prize.

Atlanta

integrationist

den Jr. as a citizen

"who is

dilling to turn the other cherk

in his quest for full citizenship

for all Americans," highlighted

the banquet

svith

a 45-minute

talk, pledging greater efforts to

obtain "racial justice."

King said the banguet and

his Nobel Prize award in Oslo,

norway,

were

"mountaintop

moments" which

tempted him

ti retreat to a more

"quiet and

sprone"life.

"But

something

within

minds me that the valley cal's

me in spite of all its

agonies,

dangers

and

frustrating

ments," he said. "I must return

to the valley."

King

"filled

said

the valley

with

was®

misguided

blood-

hirsty mobs" and "at the same

time with little Negro boys and

girls who grow up with ominous;

clouds of inferiority forming in

their little mentalskies."

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

Rabbi Jacob" Rothschild?

niember of a citizens' commit

tee sponsoring the banquet, pre

sented King and his wife, Corett

tấ, with a Steuben bowl in rec-

egrition of his coveter Nobel

Prize.

The costly gift was inscribed!

"with respect and admiration."

A dogwood blossom was etched

below the lettering

King, a Baptist minister and!

long-recognized leader of Negro

ifitegration

efforts

throughont

the country, is the first Georgian

ajad third Negro ever to receive

tile Nobel Peace Prize.

The program

for

drew dozens

Dr. King:

of local and na-

tional news media representa-

tives and was broadcast live by

ABC over

240 radio stations.

It tas

also taped for rebroad-

cast

over

Voice of

America

stations overseas.

One veteran news photograph-

er said, "I haven't seen so many

Lash bulbs popping and TV and

jewsreel cameras grinding;

sway in many a year:?"

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN S UNCLASSIFIEL

100%0

Page 3A

The Atlanta Times,

Atlanta, Georgia

Date: 1/28/65

Edition: Final

Author:

BON CHESTER

Editor:

LUICE GREENE

Title:

MARTIN LUTHER

KING,

JR:

Character:

IS - C

Classification:

Submitting Office: Atlanta

Being Investigated

4 pa

NOT

RECORDED

16 FEB 8 1965

+7551759 144s sta

M4.H.2148

FEB D 1965

NW 55167 DocId: 32989643 Page 33

---

## Page 34

The F'orsstir street sidewalk in

Iront of the Dinkler was packlid

with signtseers, policemen and

cameramen as Dr. King's car

arrived

Except for newsmen and

cameramen josthng one another.

the only commotion occurred

when Charlie Leb, an Atlanta

restaurateur,

kept

waving

"invitation"

to the dinner he!

claimed he had not asked for.

He kept saying

"Peace

Peace

• Peace with violence!

Peace! A lot of baloney!"

Leb, whose restaurant was the

target for demonstrations by Ne-

and

white

integrationists

Insi year, finally was accosteil

a a couple of city police of

icers. who took his arms an

led him to

one side of thi

throng.

Rabbi Rothchild, who present-

ed the welcome for King at the

head table,

obviously expected

more protests by

outsiders. In

applauding those in attendance,

the rabbi said,

"You are At-

Jantans; you and not the noisy

rabble who gather now outsiGs

liese doors

¡Several plainclothes "security

sificers" stood quietly at stra:

tsigic points around the banguét

hall.

ganization is called the Southern

*SW. 55167

DocId: 32989643 Page 34

King

by head table guesti

Mayor Allen; Bishop Ernest L.

Hickman of the AME Church

Kev. Edward A. Driscoll, ex-

Catholic Church, and Negro Sen.

Leroy Johnson of Fulton County.

Tributes included praise that

King had proven the philosophy

of "non-violent movement," that

he has restored the Negro race

"to its birthright," that he had

"put every person in Atlanta"

in his debt,

that he had devél!

bped non-violence

"from a tas-

lic to the highest form of Chrig-

san luva" and that "if any mai

knows the meaning of suffering

he knows."

special representative of

President Lyndon

Johnson at-

tended

the banquet.

He was

identified as Hobart Taylor Jr.,

associate general counsel to the

President.

Other head table guests in-

cluded Atlanta Constitution pus.

lisher Ralph McGill, Vice May

Morehous

King was once a studen

Mays,

Who introduce

King nds the same leader wa

gone a long way from Booker

Washington High School in At

havens d tha kind in time

having

integration al-

bitterness it his heath,

has "n

---

## Page 35

Among nonors attending but

not seated

at the head takle

were former DeKalb Commis-

silin Chairman C. 0. Emmerich,

lio now

heads the Johnson

anti-poverty program in the At-

lanta area,

and former Mayor

William B. Hartsfield Jr.

"We Shall Overcome," the in-

tegrationist theme

song

made

popular by King, followed pre-

sentation of the

Steuben bowl.

The

Morehouse

College Glee

Club led the singing.

Dr. King, interrupted frequent-

y by applause, delivered hij

I's-page speech in a slow.

de.

Iberate style, pointing to Negri

gains and opportunties as well

as future problems the race can

lexpect to face.

"marvelous

hometown

welcome and honor" given him,

King said, "will remain dear to

me as long

as the cords of

memory shall lengthen. It will:

give

me renewed

cgurage to carry on."

The Nobel Prize

winner said

his award was not a tribute to

Faust fusic that coe time for

& NW 55167

DocId: 32989643

Page 35

they will pass from the Ameri

can scene.

The Negro, King said,

"is

moving with a sense of great

hand of acial just the promised

Pointing to the "bright inter-

lude" of the 1964 civil nights

bill, King said he had seen

couraging and surprising' signs

of compliance.

"I am he pu to report," he

gaid, that communities all over

the South are obeying the civi

lights law and showing remarka

ple good sense in the process."

King warned his listeners that

"irustrating and bewildering

wilderness" is shead of the Ne-

"We must face prodigious

hilltops of opposition and gigan-

tic mountains of resistance," he

said

These areas,

according to the

Conference head, are profested

ECHE

---

## Page 36

artin

Apport

is urged

"Diseases of !."

jood

vessels k.'

ealth causes in ire

ersonal tragod•

1

0f

cconc..""

icted upon the

s.t? €

ia," Gov. Carl San: *3

roclaiming Febri;

на Hearth Month'

The Georgia Hear:

sunches its annua! Fi.

rive Feb. 1, as a

nonth-long

nationa:

x the American

ti."2-e

son, with which it &

adgar J.

Forio,

Aund chairman, s1:

pal for Georgia

k."

Bt $610,000.

• Eeft, dinersat King dinner uight, King, Mrs. Kid er onon

67Dostd:32289643 Page 36m

---

## Page 37

Police move Leb

i One sidewalk observer in front of the

didn't want, saying, "I's pouring salt l

Dinkler Plaza Hotel When the Kev.

in the wounds." One of several At-

i Martin Luther King arrived was Char-

lanta police officers on duty on the

lie Leb, whose restaurants were a tar-

sidewalk took Leb by the arm and

get of integrationists. Shouting

moved him away. (Times photo by

"Peace! Peace!" Leb waved an invita-

Gary Witt)

fion to the dinner which he said" he

NW 55167 DocId: 32909643

Page 37

---

## Page 38

0-19 (Riev, 12-11-64)

Tolson -

Belmont -

e Loget

Persper -

Callahan.

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan.

Tavel _

Trotter -

Tele Room

Holmes -

Gandy

ATLANTA DINNER

lòng

downtown

financial

and William B. Hartsfiel, » Tormer

business

institution had

done Mayor, on the list.

so.

TO GITE DR. KING

Although

the

public

So are Representatives Charles

arare of plans for

the dinner,

waS. Weltner of Ceorgia's Fifth

there was no push to sell tick- District, which includes most of

ets

except through the use

of! Atlanta,

and James A. Mackay

mailing lists obtained from sev. of the Fourth Distzict, which in-

Banquet on Wednesday Will

eral cultural and civic organi-cludes part of the city

and a

zations. Response was immedi-large suburban area. Both are

Honor Negro Leader

ate.

Democrats.

The banquet planners

hadi

The

list

also includes Vice

hoped to sell about 1,000 tick- Mayor Sam Massell Jr., a Demo-

Special to The New York Times

Although the banquet hall crat;

ATLANTA, Jan. 23-A home ordinarily seats only about about mey Cook and Richard Fandl

which - provoked

cropes controvelsy in Atlanta come in but are being rejected. cation. All are white.

business circles when it was pro-]

"We are absolutely delighted

posed,

has won overwheiming/with

the way

has worked ures are

public endorsement.

A

week

after

the tickets executive director of

Isere offered principally through tional Conference of Christians lanta,

the mail, to about 2,000 people, and Jews.

ace T. Ward,

12iose names were chosen at

Mr. McEvoy, who is coordi-

random, more than 1,400 tickets nating arrangements for

pled when letters went reo

ld been seld and shout son re airnor,

said that 101

Atlantalarsenantive

D: cause no seats remained.

honoring Dr. three-fourths

areilanta; Ralph McGill, publisher

Ling as

Georgia's fist winner white, he said.

He estimated, of

The Atlanta

of a Nobel Prize, is scheduled that at least 800 of the 1400 Dr.

Benjamin a go, prestiont

1 • 7:00 P.M.,

Wednesday, at ticket purchasers are white.

Len Dinkler Plaza Hotel.

Colitical Leaders Listed

Dr. King, who is a native of

list includes Temple.

first attracted naon- many of the city's most promi-

al attontion when,

as a minis-nent people, with a

to Atlanta to assume pected.

cirction of the Southern Chris-

Mayor. Ivan Allen Jr. and town emphasis.

tin Leadership Conference and

to become co-pastor of Ebenezar

Dentist Church. In October he

wis named winner of the 1964

Nobel Peace Prize.

After

plans for the dinner

kore

disclosed,

just

before

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Christmas, it appeared to have

te sponsorship

of a

number

roligious,

educational

and

*'ins Atlanta leaders. Opinions

sird, however, among leading

15h0

had

been

• i, 1 to be sponsors.

for the plan-

NOT PACORINN

176 FEB

2 1965

* = Froup said today, however,

"..:

staough

number of

too had declined the use of

•, names as sponsors many

¿o! parchased the $6.50 tickets

He said.that top

mecutives öf almost every lead-

The Washington Post and

Times Herald

The Washington Daily News

The Evening Star -

New York Herald Tribune

New York Journal-American

New York Daily News _

New York Post

The New York Times

The Baltimore Sun

The Worker

The New Leader

The Wall Street Journal

The National Observer -

People's World _

Date

AN 55167

58 FED

DocId: 32989643

1965

1001155570

JAN 20123

Page 38

---

## Page 39

FD-350 MHev. '7=16-63)~"

JI".

T..i997.com

To 80099976

-.".

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

dir.

.I.

.!:.

Tils.

= -171

1,000 to Altend

Nobel Dinner

For Rev. King

Plans for the Nobel Peace

Prize dinner honoring Dr. Mar-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

I The dinner will be held Jan;

7 at the Dinkler Plaza Hotel at

p.m. The public is invited

There will be space for 1,000

guests.

Tickets are $6.50 and checks

should be made out to Nobel

Frize Dinner and sent to 1009

First Federal Building, or to the

difice of the president, Dr. Beji-

jamin Mays, Morehouse College,

j223 Chestnut St., SW.

Eighty-six leading Atlanta citi-

zens have accepted sponsorship

and others have accepted since

the list was closed. The list in

fludes college presidents, law

ers, ministers and other pro

fessional men.

Page 14

The Atlanta

Constitution,

Atlanta, Georgia

Date: 1/13/65

Edition: Morning

Author:

Editor: EUGENE PATTERSO

Title:

CIRM

Character:

or

a lastion:

Submitting Office: Atlanta

[X) Being Investigated

245

A DANI

5516

132989643: *Page 39

120-116767510

NOT RECORDED

176 JAN 26 1965

toccasta

Estine attitute

---

## Page 40

• FD-350 (4-3-82)

NW

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

Banquet for King

Sows Controversy

Mr. Romant

Mir. an hr.

Mr. Drench

fir.

Mr. Cal'a an

'Ir.

Comrad

i7. Tolt

in. Grie .

Mr. Rosen ....

Dir.

sittin

fir.

Tavel

Tele. Room.

Miss Filmes

Miss Gandin

Among Atlantans

ATLANTA - (AP)

The union charged that all

Some disagreement was re-

but six of the Negro employes

ported among

Atlanta busi-

were being paid less

ness and civic leader's Tues-

white employes, and that this

day over plans for a banquet

was discriminatory. A compa-

honoring

Dr. Martin Luther

ny official denied ,there was

King Jr. for winning the No-

any discrimination. Negotia-

bol Peace prize.

tions hare broken down, but

The Negro integiation lead-

the company has continued to

er and president of the South-

opcrate.

Pt11

Christian

Lcadership

Formcí Mayor -William B.

c'onference declined comment

Fartsfield acknowledged that

di lor Atlanta home

he received oue of the invita-

Informed sources said let-

tions to act as a sponsor and

leis lere sent out to about

said he expected to attend the

125 persons several days be-

banquet.

fore Christmas asking them

"Frankly I want to see my

to act as sponsors for a ban-

city maintain its good record

quet Jan. 27 at the Dinkler

of racial tolerance and under-

Plaza Hotel.

standing" he said. "I don't

These sources said a sub-

want to see Atlanta pointed

stantial number accepted but

out as a place where the No-

persons declined

and

bel Prize winner was snubbed

others failed to reply.

in his home city."

Jayor Ivan Allen JI. spid

that he would

"extend

courtesy,

consideration

and

cooperation

in

recognizing

liing." But, he added,

"I'm

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1e/6/0

not involved in any contro-

seras."

"I have publicly congratu-

tard king," he said,

"and I

i the great majorily

of

business leaders would

¿i no with that."

Pobert Sommerville,

N24-106670-A1-

NOT REORDED

878 JAN Y 1965

the

Atlanta

: (%.,

said

there

is

Jens en

o silong feeling about the

"o among some business

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

28A

The MIAMI HERALI

Liami, Florida

Date: 12/30/64

Edition:

Author:

Editor:

Title:

MARTIN LUTHER KING

Info Concerning

Character:

or

Classification:

Submitting Office: Miami

" is nin feeling that

= from

the

Scriplo

if trist. "Some people

'o Mutter abnut it."

bile said he fa-

mardossn recognition

•so who receives a

•*1 or international

447828212.

195.1016670

' lord pickets march-

e. at of the Scripto

•sting 0o. plant for a.

A D*19,

55167

DocId: 32989643

Fage 40

---

## Page 41

SSC LETTER 7/8/75

ITEM # 19

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10,6OOO EN pAsses

Retain

NW 55167 DocId: 32989643

Page

41

---

## Page 42

1 = Mro Ryan

I. - Mx. Phillips

SiC, Atlanta (100-6520)

July 23, 1964

PERSONAL ATTENTION

Director, FBI (100-3-116)

<

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

GOSHUNESE PARTY-USA

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DIGIO GUESTION

DATE 10/16/00 BYSpaALMie

COZDUDE IN ZIENCE IS. RACIAL-MATTERS.

INTERNAL SECURITY • C

Reurlet 7/7/64 which proposed some counterintel

ligence possibilities for explozation in connection wii

capcioned natter.

It was suggested that there be an anonymous marling

made of the 6/19/84 issue of "The Herald" to Bill Shipp,

Scate Hens Editor of the "Atlanta Conotitucion."

This is

the issue which contains a photograph of Marcin Luther Rings

_Ste, and Reverend Ralph Abernathy with an accoupanying

article alleging amoral conduct on te vari ul these ino

individuals.

The cheught Is to lead Shipp to shis iten so

that he night fusther explore it and possibly cause inquiries

along lines which will prove embarzassing to Bing and the

Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC)

By soparate

correspondence your office his been directed to

furnish the

Bureau available information concerning the alleged escapades

1904

of Abernathy, including the obtaining of ofricial couzi

records.

The Bureau, therefore, believes that action o

alert Shipp to "The Herald" article should be held in abey.

ance until such ting as the Bureau has received all available

JULI

CO:

Lactual data.

At that time a judgment will be made as to

whether or not your suggestion should be carried out.

Belations Dire tor for the acut.

Ander pugecation concerns ta Clayton, the Pastee

It Is noted that he had

recently been on a "druns" and mas unable to perfom his

duties

It was anticipated that he would be dimissed by

King in the near future and that at that tine it is believed

that Clayion could be "bought" by a rous viter for "real

insight" on the bacigrouad of the SCuC and its operation.

Tolson

It was therefore suggested that Shipp be directod to Clayton

Belmont

Mohr

for such information

as would give Shipp good armunition for

Casper

exposure of the scle. It is suggested that in connection

Callahan

Conrad

• REC 14

De Loach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

SFP : km

(5)

10I-3-116-

1814

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter 2

Tele. Room : ::

!!.

311964

nonsen is an in a eye reset and is not planet!

Holmes -

Gandy -

MAIL ROOM

your out treat the content may no eate to unauthorized person-

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 55167

DooId: 32909643

Page 42

---

## Page 43

Lotter to Atlanta

RS: COMUNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO QUESTION

COSMUNISE INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

100-3-116

with this idea you carefully watch the situation relating

to Clayion"s employnent and personal shortconings.

Should

clayton, in fact, be alanissed by tiny and there are evi

dences of discord, resubmit the suggestion setting forth

the spocilse manner in unich you intend to steer shipp to

clayton.

In connection with the "hideaway" used by king

which is an apartment of his associate, Ired Bennett, you

should continua to be extrenely alert to infouation

indicating a change in the location and 18 a change 1s

not made in the near future,

consider.the possibility.of

installing some type of sensitive coverage.

The frequency

_of use of this "hideaway" should, of course, bo au important

factor to consider.

The Bureau appreciates the thought and effort

being expended by your oitica in connection with counter

intelligence possibilities relative in instant matter and

at ail times will veicone any additional ideas your office

NW. 55167 DocId:32989643

Page 43

---

## Page 44

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED.

UNCLASSIFIED

18

HEREINIS

1D i

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-3-116)

7/7/64

PERSONAL ATTENTION:

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR

C. SULLIVAN OR INSPECTOR

SAC, ATIANTA

(100-6520-D)

JOSEPH SIZOO, DOMESTIC

INTELLICENCE DIVISION)

COMMUNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

IS-C

ReBulet dated 6/9/64, captioned as above, whiap

letter requested specific suggestions as to the pone Atlanta

utilization of BILL SHIPP, State News Editor of

Constitution" either directly or through anonymous contact.

As was pointed out in Atlanta's letter of analysis

and evaluation dated 4/14/64, SHIPP has written several

articles unfavorable to Dr. KING, the SCIC and the lack of

progress made toward reconstruction of the three burned Negro

churches. With the completion and dedication of the rebuilt

three Negro churches on Sunday 6/27/64, the immediate willing-

ness of SHIPP to explore or write on the activities of SCIC

and/or KING is unknown to the Atlanta Office. With the

dedication of these rebuilt churches the one main theme of

grievance and basis of criticism has been removed.

The basis for other critical articles has been the

ScIC's position and that of DI. KING relating to the employment

Of HUNTER PITTS O'DELI..

As the Bureau is aware, this employment

of O'DELL has long since been terminated.

Examples of the type of information that. may have

been exploited in recent past by furnishing to SHIPP either

anonymously or in normal contact and may have resulted in a

news item or at least personal embarrassment or harassment

Inelude the following:

(1) Sources on 6/23/64 advised of a conversation

between KING and WYATT WALKER in New York City wherein

KING was rather frantic because the contractor who rebuilt

the three churches in South Georgia had threatened that if

complete payment for the construction had not been received

by 6/26/64 he would file a lien against the three structures.

Bureau (Personal Attention) (RM)

Atlanta

11- 100-6520-D)

1~ 100-6621) (Counterintelligence Activities

AFM/elt

(4)

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for assemi-

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

your committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person-

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

WW 55167 DocId: 32909643

Page 44

---

## Page 45

AT

100-6520-D

AFM/elt

KING was specific in stating he did not want this

information to get out to the Press.

(Obviously a reference to

BILL SHIFP and critical articles he has written.)

(2)

Sources in April of 1964 reported the financial condition

of SCLe as being critical.

In specific, they indicated a debt

to a local printer of approximately $50,000.

SHIPP's personal Inquiry of this printer as to

whether he was going to file a suit against KING and/or the

may have curtailed future credit extended to the SCIC for its

operations.

Obviously the opportunities to exploit these two

incidents are past.

As can be seen in the first instance

there existed only two or three days from the date of receipt

of the Information as to the threat of a lien against these

churches which did not afford ample time to formulate a policy

and implement it.

At this time 1t is

suggested that anonymously a copy

of July 19, 1964 "The Herald" Vol. 6, No. 38 be furnished to.

BILL SHIPP.

It is noted that this publication described as

South Carolina's Oldest Negro newspaper and printed ostensibly

at Anderson, South Carolina, carries a photograph of Dr."

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., and Reverend RALPH ABERNATHY, Treasurer

of ScLe, along with headlines to the effect that KING takes

girl to San Juan and ABERNATHY ¿educes girl 15. The story

accompanying sets forth court testimony given in the Circuit

Court of Montgomery County, Alabama, as to ABERNATHY's normal

and abnormal sex relations with a 15 year old girl in August,

1952.

The article further indicated that this same girl

was

the person accompanying KING to San Juan.

-2.

55167 DocId: 32989643 Page 45

---

## Page 46

AT

100-6520-D

AFM/elt

-

It is not believed that SHIPP can write any kind

of news article a this but will serve to alert him as to

future possible. news articles. In addition it would undoubtedly

cause inquiries to be made along these lines which would prove

embarrassing to KING and SCIC.

A copy of this publication has previously been

furnished to the Bureau on 6/26/64.

Another possible course of action would be to

openly and through personal contact steer SHIPP

writers to ED CLAYTON, a former writer for "Jet"r other

magazine and

public relations director of SCIC.

his duties.

It is anticipated he will be dismissed by KING in

the near future.. At that time it is believed that CLAYTON

can be bought by a news writer for "real insight" on background

of SCIC and its operation.

The Mobile Office by Airtel dated 6/15/64 identified

the previously unknown Catholle Priest as Father ALBERT S.

FOLEY, Head of Sociology Department, Spring Hill College,

Mobile, Alabama, and Chairman of the Alabama Advisory Committee

.to the

U. S. Civil Rights Comnission.

From The Mobile Register, Mobile, Alabama,_ 5/4/63,

captioned "Foley Hits Racial Strife".

In this

article,

Father

FOLEY said that MARTIN LUTHER KING, had agreed to call off

demonstrations in Birmingham, but then changed his menc

without notice, and that a member of the SCIc told him,

that the SCIo's treasury was nearly depleted, and the

ELES

FOLEY,

demonstrations were. needed to spark contributions.

In this article

Bishop W. M. SMITH of the African Methodist Episcopal Zion

Church, Mobile, took issue with Father FOLEY.

3. From The Mobile Press, 5/6/63, captioned "King

Fires at Foley.

In this article, MARTIN LUTHER KING said

he would have direct communication with Washington asiding

for the resignation of Father FOLEY from the Alabama Advisory

Committee to the U. S. Civil Rights Commission. KING denied

Father FOLEY'& charge.

+ is

- 3-

55167 DocId: 32989643 Page 46

---

## Page 47

A1

100-6520-D

AFM/elt

It Is noted that The Mobile Press and The Mobile

Register are daily newspapers published at

• Mobile, Alabama.

For your added information, Father FOLEY has been

very active in integration matters, and has worked closely

with Negroes im promoting integration..

He is still, according

to news sources, Chairman of the Alabama Advisory Committee

to the U.S. Civil Rights Commission.

It is noted that State News.Editor SHIPP undoubtedly

has these news items in the

"morgue" files of"The Atlanta

Constitution" and could easily identify this Catholis priest

if he does any research on the SCIc organization as such.

Consideration is being given to the interview of

Father FOLEY. Efforts will be made to fully devebp information

regarding him at which time by separate communication Bureau

authority for interview by Agents of the Mobile Office with

justification for such interview will be submitted by Atlanta.

Appropriate discretionary cautions have been given Mobile and

will be made to other offices when and if leads are set forth

in this investigative matter.

The Atlanta Office 1s endeavoring through: is sources

to ascertain further plans of KING and BENNElT as to the possible

relocation of the hideaway.

Sources have indicated that

the past three weeks KINe has only been at the "hideaway" uring

occasion. If it appears continued occupancy will remain and

greater utilization will be made by KING of this apartment,

consideration will be given to sone type of sensitive coverage.

=4 -

NW 55167 DocId: 32989643 Page 47

---

## Page 48

TO

FROM

SUBJEC

NW 55167

DITIONAL PORN NO 1Ó

MAY ISCE EDITION

3010-107

UNITED STATES GOL

INMENT.

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-3-116)

DATE: -00N1 7 1968

SAC, NEW YORK (100-15148)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

COP,. USA

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 0/5602 BYEars

NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

IS-C

(00: New York,

ReNYlet to Bureau, 6/2/64.

continential source

On 6/8/04, MS GLORGE MEIENER, ASSiStan

Manages, Hanuracturers Hanover Trust Company 741

Fifch Avanue, Nic (Conceal) who has furnished

reliable information in the past, made available

tO SA ANTHONY E. CONSTANTINO, on a confidential basis,

-bank records concerning the account of MARTIN LUTHER

KING, JI.

York

A review of the records reflected no

activities for the preceeding monch, and the

balance as of 6/3/64 was $2,136.88.

The above information is not to be made

public except in a usual proceeding following the

Issuance of a subpoena.

The officer to be subpoenaed

is Mr. WILLIAM FABRY, Assistant Vice-President of

the bank.

-Bureau (RM)

2-Atlanta (100-6520-A) (CP,USA, NEGRO QUESTION) (INFO) (RM)

(1-100-5586) (MARTIN

LUTHER KING, JX.)

I-New York (100-136505) (MARTIN LUTHER KING, JI. ) (#42)

I-New YOrk

9-10831

REGE 134

JOS: amb

(6)

15.84

1066670

& JUN 181964

JUN ras documert is prepared in responsento your

hation outside your Committee.

request and is not for dissemi-

Its use is nited. te official proceedings by

your Committee and the content may'nut be disclosed to unauthorized person-

nel vithout the express approval of the fBl.

DoId: 32989643-Page- 48

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

## Page 49

11,

SAC, Atlanta (100-6520)

1 - Mr. Ryan

I - Mx.

Rosack

1

Phillips

June 9, 1964

Director, FBI (100-3-136)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

COLINIST PARTY, 0S4

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

OSUSTION

HEREINIS UNCLASSIFIEO

COMUNISE ENTLUNNCE IN RACIAL MATTERSATE 10/16/00

INTERNAL SECURITY • C

Reurlet April 14, 1964, Which set out an analysis

and evaluation of progress

being made in investigation

relative to captioned natter as well as suggestions fox

exploring new avenues of investigation.

It was stated that Bill Shipp,

State News Editor,

"Atlanta Constitution," has been making

Loqulay in che Albanys

Georgla, area regardine the reconstruction of the three

Negro churches burned ia inac area

during the Summer or 196d.

Shipp has in the past vritten unfavorable articles regarding

Martin Luther King. Jr., and the Southern Christian LeadershaD

Conference (SCIC).

Re has also vritten regarding civil

righis groups having vithin their ranks subversive sympathizers.

Your office suggested giving consideration to furnishing

Shipp on an anonymous basis certain specific leads where

may develop the necessazy date so that he may further veite

critical stories.

As an exanple of the type of iniormation

considered, you noted that a Catholic priest fron souch

Alabans, name unknown to your office but possibly krown to

MAILED 3

JUN 1 Cieoi

the lobile Office, had publicly denounced the sctC after

COMM-FBI

several years' alfillation with that group based upon the

priest's experiences and knowledge of the financial dealings

of the scLe.

EX TIES REC-47 /11.

15)

The Bureau believes that this general suggestion

merits further consideration with the exception lompossibly

leading

shipp to the Catholde priest. The Dureau will

entertain any recommendations you nay desire to mere relative

to specific infornation which way be turnished to shipp

including suggestions as to how it should be furnished to bin.

Tolson

Belmont

As to the Catholic priest, you are instructed

Mohr

Casper.

correspond with the

Mobile Office and set out any other

leads

Callahan

Conrad

necessary to identily the priest and give consideration to an

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

SFP: pwd

Rosen

Sullivan

(6)

Tavel

Trattef

TrE JUN 1510

This document is prepared in response to

oner sequest and is not tor dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

umied to official proceedings by

your committee and the content may nut be disclosed to

mel without the express approval of the FBI.

unauthorized person;

Docid: 329At

---

## Page 50

Letter to Atlanta

RE:

COLIUNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO QUESTION

1083-136

Interview of him. The interview should no: ba conducted

without prior bureau authority.

Your reconmendation for

such intervier should contain

full available Intormation

concerning the indivioua. and full juscification foz the

interview.

Insure that any other offices covering leads

In this matter are especially cautioned relative to the ...

absolute necessity for discretion.

Relet furnished an analysis of known intornation

concerning king's Atlanta "hide-away" (the apartmeni of bis

associate Fred Bennett.

Follon closely the considerations

of King and Bennete toward obtaining another apartnent to

replace the present "hideraway." I& anothers apartnent is

obtained, give close consideration to che development of

sensitive-type coverage.

In the event a change in apariments

lurcher consideration to the effecting of sensitive type

coverage in the current apestnent.

By & separate letter to the New hork Office, a

copy of which vas furnished to your office, instructions

were issued looking toward the possible location of a

personal, bank account of ling in New fosis City.

The matters dealt with herein are to be handled

on a need toaknow basis in yous office.

NW 55167_DocId:32989643.

Page_50

---

## Page 51

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-3-116)

6/2/54.

SAC, NEW YORK (100-151548).

CPUSA

NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

IS - C.

Re Bulet to NY, 5/21/64.

contidential

NYC, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

advised. SA ANTHONY E. CONSTANTINO, that a regular checking

account

Of MARTIN I. and CORETTA S. KING, Atlanta, Georgia,

is located at that bank.

Arrangements were made with Mr. MILLNER to monitor

this account on a monthly basis. It was pointed out that

only Mr. MILLNER and Mr. JOSEPH CURRY, Assistant

secretary,

who has

furnished reliable information in the past, would be

aware of or have knowledge of the fBl interest in this

account. Every effort would be made to prevent other employees

from gaining access to this information.

A statement along with any cancelled checks would

be made available on the sixth workday of every month.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

-Bureau (RM)

2-Atlantic (100-6520-A) (CPUSA, NEGRO QUESTION)

(INFO RM

1- 100-5500) (MARTIN LUTHER KING

2-New York

(1-100-136585) (MARIIN LUTHER KING) (42)

JCS: umg

(6)

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI .

"NW 55167 DocId: 32989643 Page 51

---

## Page 52

• 13.

forsyth

kit.

R05203

MI.

You sir:

Ryat

Pashaine

My To 10d

(1000)51458)

Dareetos, 73% (100-34230)

COMESTEr PARTY, DO

ABORD CUESZION

CODIUNICT INKWEICE IN FACIAL BITSTA

INTHINAL MECHNITY - C

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN'S UNCLASSIFIED

se At ente

mita sat

sE sasyaid and emiuction of hd pogrosy

So boing mão in the invousincion Di espedoned natter

A3 Bolt as

192080941035

investicaties.

BONESE C010230& DOS BY9525S 44

En page ui00 le von novod tuat Narcin Lather

Kinse de+,

has & munsons ban's 2000ua5 an low Jor Gady.

Bang ca

Renrict AgriL s0, 1004, com de AClusea, Wies

saported that as account is ina nano of tbo outhors Christies

Loadership Concrense f-CIC), Mica king losin, bad best

mintained us the kenuaceurons venores trust feupany,

Now Task City, lars tuch scooas

had benn elous on sumanny Ig

nating

that pertain corong lectors sad out la

so Atlanta lotter autigate agnland ony rosadsie

King's

sessonal

tanis ahe

desirable

so icatity say

àn say bove on escort 10

City and, thoroadser, canades an aist of tugh escounse

thempose, instructed to gase hail conasderation

canvans os baare ta ice tont bary is an eilore ca loudder

AL A900U2

sacreds and concated barub only stabilates

FOLEOLE SHITECES

och canvass pay be inderasen assosaaroly

UNSAS TOI

Xor sot doing so in which great the

BALECE

F8u5s

y Each the Kuross-

1 o Altanta

1200

€580}

(PERSONAL ATTENTION)

3 - Bufilo 100-100670 Oartin Enther King. ir.)

88P:5wd (9)

NTW

55167

DocId: 32909643

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

your Committee and the content may nut-be disclosed to unauthorized person-

nel without the express approval of the

FBI.

Page 52

---

## Page 53

84C, Atlaate (100-8520)

FER

4/33/64

ATTENTION

Director, 131 (100-3-116)

Mr. Phillips

CORNIST PARIS, USt

MICRO QUESTION

CONNIE IN AICE

IN RACIAL HATTERS

INTEENAL SECURITY - C

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN S UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10 Ve.0D BYSPALACA

Reterenco is nude to lottors/reon your erfice sad

Hey for yy14/0e, walch sot out

analyses and evaluttion of

progress whick is being made

in investigation relative

captioned master.

These letters worg is roply 30 30130262/103

made of rocsiving oftices tith a fier found suscortire

336w

avenues of investigation and intenciliontion in aveas aiready

being espioned.

the purpose of instnut comunication la to orons

this Barazus gratitude 10 tho analyzas subnitled by dilante

which included

saveral augestions zor exploriDg Des aNces.

the Dureau bellores that sone o1 Atlanta's idona nre extranely

sorthmhile and represeat & studiod altont combined zith sa

serenaire Inaniantion losicing toward nore and botier ways of

necting the probione lavolved in captioned investigatios.

Tho specific matters doalt eith in Atlaria"s

Letter

mill be tha subjeci a soparate estzestondence

Fant thes ornice.

You are Lastrucisa tO pLECO

21 the personnel files ci

tho

copy as this letter of aroroustion

Atlanta Agents sesponsible fos

the excollent analysis and

decisive, inosinatavo suggestions.

1 - New York (100-151548)

SFP: inh

(5)

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

nel without the express approval of the fBl .

NW 55167 DocId:32989643 Page 53

---

## Page 54

?: 1

MAILED A

APR

2 4 1964

COMiN-FBI

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper.

Callahan .

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans -

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Holm, Room

Holm't

Nfanty

16%

SAC, New Yoris (100-151548)

April 24, 1964

PERSONAL ATTENTION

Director, FBI (100-3-116)

1 - tir. Baumgaraner

(Field Supervision)

I = Mr. Floyd

COMMUNIST PARTY, USA

1 - Mi. Phillips

NEGRO QUESTION

COMICESS ERIENCE BI RACIAL HATRERS

...ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

INTERNAL SECURITY • C

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE L0 laD

ReNzlet 4/14/64, copy to Atlanta,

which set

out an analysis and evaluation of the New fork Officers

aspects of captioned investigation along with cestain

recommendations relative to tuture investigative activity

in chis matter.

Belet was in response to a solicliation

made of receiving offices by Bulet 4/1/64.

.::

-Instant conmunication is-for-the purpose of

-commenting wpon lew-york's-amlysis. concerning Bayard.

Incividual concerning whon new xors is origin

and who is a key figure in the racial novenent today.

It is stated in referenced New York letter

"Although Bustin contacted Davis, it is not believed that

he is in contact with other CP leaders, or that he is

sympathetic to the CP cause."

This appears to bea

conclusion of the New York Office which could dictate

the course

of investigation relating to Fustin as well

as Rustin's involvement in captioned natter.

The Bureau, •

therefore,

desires to make a nunber of coservations to

insure that there is no de enphesis of out interest in

Rustin and that he is properly evaluated in light of all we

know about him.

note bot

Jus's prior to the above quoted portion of

it is stated that there has not

been any indication that bustin has contacted any Party

leaders except Benjoin J. Davis and that Fustin asked

Davise adviceas to how he could escape iron speaking at

a rally sponsored by the Inorgency Comuittee for Disaster

Reliel to Cuba.

It is elsevhere stated

in referenced

New York letter that in the recent past Davis was in

contact with Rustin.

As you are aware,

Davis is a high

Party functionary and Chairman of the Nationa: Negro

Conmission of the Party. The fact that he is an inportant

12,43

1 - Atlanta (100-6520)

REG 25.

143 11:08

1 - 100-153790 (Bayard Rustin)

STP:chs (8) This document is prepared, in respond. boarduest and is not for tissemi-

1h01

nation outsise your committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

your, committee and the, content manut be discloset. to unauthorized person.

net without the expres approval of the FBI •

đ M34

GEYPENIT

---

## Page 55

Letter to Ney Jork

BE:

COLNUNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

100-3116

figure in the Party is undoubtedly known to Rustin and the

fact that Bustin would seek Davis? advice is belleved to be

oi prime signiiicarce.

The Bureau does not agree with the expressed

belier of the New York Office that Rustin is not sympachetic

to the Party cause.

While there may not be any direct

evidence that Rustin is a comnunist neither is there any

substantial evidence that he is anticonuunist.

Relet

pointed out, in substantiation of the belie

that Bustin

Is not sympathetic to the Party cause, that he, as late

as 4/9/64, in addressing & meeting at Nyack,

New York,

said he was opposed to the comunist novenent This

the Bureau takes as a sell serving statement on the part

of Rustin and it is understandable that he would make such

a puble statement, even withou regaid in his bur veticisg

in lighi o2 the recent adverse publicity he received,

particularly in New Yort City neuspapers, for his involvement

in the public school boycott in Ney fork City earlier this

year and subsequent exposure ot his contact with the Soviet

mission to the United Nations.

It is also desired to call your astention to the

portion of relet dealing with your office's coverage in

connection with captioned matter.

Ic is stated at the top

of page 2 of relet "It is felt that this coverage is

adequate..."

In light os the extreme inportance which the

Bureau has attached to instant matter and

the ever increasing

importance of the racial and civil rights issues on the

national sceue,

the Bureau cannot adjudge as adequate any

coverage which

does not positively provide

to the Bureau

100 per cent of the intelligence relating to the comunist

influence in racial matters.

Obvionsly we are not securing

all the information that is pertinent and needs to be secured.

Our coverage, therefore, is not deemed as adequate.

The matters discussed above are being pointedly brought

to your attention to insure that there is no de-emphasis in the

investigation concerning Rustin and that there is no stone being

left unturned in your efforts to increase coverage in this area

both as to quality or quantity.

The Bureau expects that you

will give this matter your closest personal attention to insure

the necessary attention is being given by Agent and supervisory

personnel.

55167

DooId: 32989643 Page 55

..'-

---

## Page 56

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-3-116)

(PERSONAL ATTENTION:

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR H. C. SULTIVAN

4/14/64

JUNE

DOMESTIC INIELLIGENCE DIVISION)

SAC, ATLANTA (100-6520-D)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ADREINS UNCLASSIFIEL

CONMUNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL, MATTERS

IS-C

Reference is made to Bureau letter dated 4/1/64

which requested a reappraisal of the investigative efforts

based on the past 90 days experience.

The following analysis in Atlanta is based on

Information furnished from various confidential sources

and

a review of files in conjunetion therewith. It is pointed

out that this office is not fully cognizant of all investi-

gative endeavors and results therefrom that have transpired

in this investigation to date, particularly as it relates to

Investigation conducted by auxiliary offices and their use

of certain confidential investigative techniques.

In the analysis of this investigation it should

further be borne in mind MARIIN LUTHER KING, JR., Is so closely

related to the organization Southern Christian Leadership

Conference which he founded that they are considered synony

During January, 1964, KING In

certain of

his conversations had mentioned this very fact, his realization

of this condition and that he was going to endeavor to elevate

the character and picture of Southern Christian Leadership

Conference as an organization rather than subvert Southern

Christian Leadership Conference to his on personal name and

esteem.

2=

Bureau (100-3-116) (Personal Attention: Assistant Director

W. C. Sullivan, Domestic Intelligence

Division) (REGISTERED MAIL)

2- New York (100-151548) (Personal Attention: ASAC Donald E.

Roney) (RECISTERED MAIL,)

2- Atlanta (100-5520-D)

AFM:elt

(6)

NW 55167 DocId: 32989643

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited. to official proceedings by

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI:

Page 56

---

## Page 57

AI

100-6520-1

•ArMielt

A. Utilization of an Anonymous Souxce

49m229

Based on Information made avallable and evaluation

'of same, consideration has been given to the utilization of

an anonymous source; however, it is noted that on one eccasion

was reported that mile Lion had apparently prouded

$500 In funds to be utilized for "night watchman purposes.

It is' further noted there are approximately 40 employees at

this time in the Southern Christian Leadership Conference

Office, whose hours or employent renost trregular and

Include weekends on occasions. It is considered that a

physioal surveillance of all employees of Southern Christian

Leadership Conference for such an anonymous source development

could not be conducted with sufficient disoreetness to insure

the success of this type operation.

It 18 Further noted that

the building which houses the offices of Southem Christian

Leadership Conference 1s also occupied by a Negro Radio

Station which has most Irregular hours for its employees.

Another portion of the building is oocupied and utilized

Lodge purposes and there is considerable traffic in and out

of the building at unusual or Irregular hours.

This office

space is located in an exclusively Negro neighborhood for

approximately one mile in radius except for the downtown

business aistrict.

from the above the security problems are obvious;

however, there is room to explore this nacher and our investi

gation will be designed to determine any weakness, which we can

exploit to our advantage.

Ba Further Use of News Media

Sources have recently reported certain displeasures

on the part of KING relating to statements attributed to ROY

WILKINS, Head of the NAACP, which displeasures were resultant

of statements made by WILKINS in regard to the Civil Rights

Bill presently in congress. lund indicated he was tired of

WILKINS making these statements which in effect carried KING'S

concurrence when in fact KING had not been sonsulted.

* 2=

NW 55167

DooId:32989643

Page 57

---

## Page 58

AT

100-6520-D

AFMIElt

It Is recommended that both the New York and Atlanta

Office remain particularly alert for any further indications of

E 1ft possibly developing between HITKINS and KING a that

full utilization. may be made of this incident.

Fastests: + 43424359457254 38;

It information is developed confirming such a disagree

ment a possible course 94

Me tiller on the atlanta constitution der to

explore the basis of such disagreement and also to feed pertinent

subversive connections and dealings of KING to WILKINS.

It 18

unknown to Atlanta whether McGILl is personally acquainted with

WIIKINS but It 1s known that McGIli, has been most cooperative

with the Atlanta Office of the FBI and the Bureau and IT he

Is acquainted with WILKINS, this could be considered.

It is further suggested the Bureau, through Lts

respective auxiliary offices, may desire to discreetly

furnish information to reliable news individuals who could

report by story and photograph iteme which yould show kINd's

high living and exorbitant-spanding. In this regard, It

is noted that since February, KING has been in San Juan, Puerto

Rico, Hawall, Los Angeles, residing in the Hyatt House at

$75 per day and again in Nassau, BWI, under an assumed name.

While it is realized that certain neuspaper publicity might

favorable to KING It is believed that certain articles reporting

this high living would have a distinct advantage of causing.

many Negro supporters of the Southern Christian Leadership

Conterence. to lose laith in this orcanizacion, Ius leader

and their endeavors and hence discontinue their support through

the contribution of funds.

It is realized that the bulk of

the financial support comes from the white community but Negroes

provide the numerical majority and support for demonstrations

In the street.

Information has come to the attention or the

Atlanta Office recently that BILI SHIPP, State News Editor

for the

"Atlanta Constitution" has been making Inquiry 10

the Albany, reorgia, area regarding the reconstruction of

the three Negro churches burned in that area during the

3.

55167 DooId: 32909643 Page 58

---

## Page 59

AT ' 100-6520-5

ARN: OLt

summer of 1962. SHIPP has in the past written unfavorable

articles regarding KING and the Southem Christian Leadership

Conference as it relates to the employment or

HUNTER PITTS

ODELL He has also written regarding Civll Rights groups

who have within their rank subversive sympathizers. Other

articles authored by SHIPP have related to the detay in the

reconstruction of these destroyed churches and he has also

been critical of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference

for its fallure to make public records as to lts financial affairs.

It is noted that funds, for the reconstruction of three

Negro churches in the Albany area, were obtained through public

sollcitations initlated by the "Atlanta Constitution"

and othes

organizations in Atlanta.

the scle also solicited funds for this

project and in so doing used the volunteer services of JACKIE

ROBINSON to collect approximately $65,000 throughout the U.S.

SOLo in turn was in charge of the funds collected for this pro

ject and responsible for the aisbursing of these funds to the

contractorg building the churches. It Is further pointed out

that the delay in the reconstruction of these churched has been

primartia a result of the contractor not recelving funda from

southern Christian leadershio. Conference, Pha Derlodic

for the completion of these churches. It is suggested that the

Bureau may desire to furnish to SHIPP on an anenymous

basis,

certain specific leads where he may develop the necessary data

so that he may fuccher write critical news stories which

based on Information obtained by him rather

r than by this wound

agency.

An example of this time of information would include furnishing

to the Mobile Office, who arter several years affillation with

the Southern Christlan Leadership Conference publicaLlY

denounced this organization based on his expectences and ow

ledge of their financial dealings. This priest attributed to an

soId official a statement that they needed to have a demonstration

17' order to raise money. This was just prior to a large scale

demonstration held in Birmingham, Alabama, in 1963.

4

55167 DocId: 32989643 Page 59

---

## Page 60

AT 100-6520-D

Background Investigation of Southern Christian

Leadership Conference Employees

The Atlanta Office currently is maintaining separate

files on all SOLd employees and is in the process of discreetly

Investigating the background of twelve key employees

and

associates in an effort to obtain some wealmess that could

bế usea for counter Intell gence" ac

activities.

Ta date-no.

pertinent data has been developed on these individuals which

Is recognized as an opportunity for counter intellicence purposes

with the exception of KINd's girl friends activities.

Recommendations will be forthcoming if and when weaknesses are

developed.

-..

D.

Disgruntled Employees

It is to be noted that Atlanta sources have disclosed

recently

that ruth. Baller, an employee.Ofthe-New.Yorkoirlce

of soLo, was discharged. She contacted an employee or the

Atianta OffIce of SCIo and showed her displeasure because

her discharge date was prior to the notification date. In

showing this displeasure she brought out that STANLEY LEVISON

Ras In someway undesirable and that KING had been warned

by unknown individuals about associating with him.

Sources

advised, however, that upon reconsideration SCId retained the

services or DAILEY. Atlanta suggests this matter be followed

closely Doth In New York and In Atlanta and Ilthe opportunity

presents Itselr to exploIt BATLIT's discontent. At chis time,

i we appeal the not roco ate a rentred that the

Sources further reported a certain trend of dis

content and dissatisfaction on the part of employees in

the Atlanta Office of SeLC based over preferential pay to

Individuals performing the same duties.

This discontent

has been temporarily allevlated by recent pay increases made

to all employees.

NW 55167 DooId: 32989643

Page 60

---

## Page 61

AT

100-6520-D

AFM: elt

-

It is suggested that this area may present

opportunities in the future from a counter-intelligence

standpoint by the injection of false Information with

certain discontented employees such as EDWIN SMITH, the

flance of HUNIER PINTS O'DELL.

E.

Financial Dealings of KING and the Southern Christian

Leadership Conference

Analysis of recently received tax returns through

1962 and Internal Revenue Service investigation of KING and

the Southern Christian Leadership Conference for the years

1957, 1958 and 1959, seflects that the main question of

contention was the

status of money received by Southern Christian

Leadership Conference. KING's contention was that these receipts

were gifts, while Internal Revenue contends that income from

business operations, namely SCIC, was in reality income.

Atlanta sources have recently reported

that the

Atlanta Retail Credit Company was fumished details to the

effect that SCIC had received $750,000. during 1963.

"WILLIE" RICHARDSON,

Internal Revenue Service employee, was making a current income

investigation regarding the southern christian

Leadership

Conference or one of their employees. Sources at Internal

Revenue Service report that WILLIE RICHARDSON 1s the only

Negro Internal Revenue Agent of the Atlanta Regional Office

and has been so employed for approximately one year.

It Is pointed out that KING has authored several

books and It Is believed that funds received from this author

ship are the funds most difficult to report as gifts as KING's

contention has been in the past, rather than as income.

From the return it 1s apparent that SCLE 1S

classified as a tax-exempt organization; however, contributions

to 1t are not allowable by the donor as a tax deductible

contribution to a charity organtation. SCIC 1s considered

NW 55167

Docid: 32989643

Page 61

---

## Page 62

AT: 100-6520-D

AFM:®lE

a tax-exempt civil organization. It is noted that in order

to obtain this tar-exempt status,

& petition must be filed

the organization with Internal Revenue Service, a copy

of the organization's charter, By laws, financial.

statements

and a list of sizeable contributors to this organization 18

also filed.

It is suggested that the Bureau may desire to

obtain through liaison further data avallable regarding

scIc and the basis of any current investigation being conducted

On MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., OF SCIO. .

It is felt the list of contributors of sizeable

gifts to soLd may be important as with future information

it

may

be possible to compare whether KING is recording all

of his contributions as gifts or whether in lact, there

15 a discrepancy in the amount donated to SCLO and the

amount KING reports as gifis. If such a discrepancy does

exist it is likely KING is utilizing these funds for his

own personal affairs.

It is believed that through varlous past Incidents

as réported by Atlanta sources a trend can be established

to show collusion on the part of donors who are making

contribution to SCLo by various and devious means.

Points

- In contention in this regard relate to a sizeable contribution

of funds collected at a benefit held in California by SAMMY

DAVIS, JR., the entertainer.

It was proposed that these funds

These funds were

Church, Atlanta, and thence to SeId, or MARIIN LUTHER KING,

JR. personally,

Another point in contention relates to the recent

gift by an unknown automobile dealer through a Reverend

RICHARD BATTLES, Hartford, Connecticut, who contributed

automobiles to the SCIe for their use.

Atlanta sources

reported that this dealer was interested in establishing

a capital loss in his business operations and was utilizing

the gift of the vehicles in so doing. In order to establish

• NW 55167 DooId 32989643 Page 62

---

## Page 63

AI 100-6520-1

AFMIelE

this capital loss and as well claim a contribution, the

vehicles were actually given to the West Hunter Baptist

church, the Ebenezer Baptist Church and to the United Church

of Christ, Decatur, Georgia, all of which vehicles were to

made available to the seld.

It is further ponted out that Atlanta sources

advised that SCLe 1s currently short on funds and 1s

known

to owe Dazby Printing Company, Atlanta, approximately

$12,000.

It Is belleved that donors and creditors of SCIo

present two Important areas for counter-intelligence activities.

In regard to the donors it is suggested that official SCIo

stationery bearing KING's signature, coples of which are availake

to the Atlanta oriice and will be iurnished by separate communi

cation to the Bureau Laboratory for reproduction purposes,

be utilized in advising the donors that Internal Revenue

Service is currently checking tax records of SOLd and that

KING through this phoney correspondence wants to advise the

donor insuring that he reported his gifts in accordance with

Internal Revenue requirements so that he will not become

Involved In a tax investigation. It is believed such a letter

of this type from SCIC may cause considerable concern and

eliminate future contributions.

From avallable Information

it is apparent that many of these contributors.to SCIO are

doing so in order to claim tax deductions and in order to be

eligible for such deductions, the contribution 1s being made to

the coenezer baptist church, which in turn is forwarded to

KING or the Southern Christian Leadership Conference:

It is also proposed that pretext calls be placed

to Darby Printing Company, Impressing upon them the financial

plight of sold so that they may be incited into collection

efforts of the printing bill owed to them in the amount of

$12,000.

It is further suggested that Investigative efforts

be made in auxiliary offioes

to determine method used by

NW 55167 DocId:32989643 Page 63

---

## Page 64

AI 100-6520-D

AFnseit

KING in settling his accounts and if credit eards are used,

appropriate checks of these credit card aecounts may develop

pertinent infornation regarding KING's financial dealings.

Atlanta confidential sources also advised that

KING has a personal account in New Tonk City and Atlanta, Georgia,

at the ltizens Trust Company. The New York bank Is union.

There is also an SCIO banking account in New

"York City and

Atlanta, Ga.s

also at the Cittzens Irust Company.

ME A Ta Do

NIHION,

President of the Citizens Trust Company,

Atlanta,

Georgia, has in the past been extremely cooperative with

the Bureau in other investigative matters; however, it is

known that he is personally acquainted and considered friendly

with MARLIN LUTHER KING, JR. and othez members of his

irmediate family. It is therefore felt that the necessary

mondtoring of his bank account could not be effective with

the desired security varranted in this investigation.

Is 13

noted that this rank is oned and operated entirely by members

of the Negro rade.

Subversive Information Regsding Southern

Christian Leadershi» Conference Employees

It is noted that Reverend CORDY T. VIVIAN, Director

of Afciliates of soles was identified by a Springrield

Informant in 194T as a member of the Cormunist Party in

Peoria, Illinois

Investigation regarding VIVIAN has been

Instituted to detemine his activities since 1947 and whether

he has any other subversive affiliations:

EDNINA SWITH, Secretary to the Program Director,

Reverend ANdras younGs of scle, unile not known personally

• €0

be altiliated wich any subversive organization, is engaged

tO HUNTER PINTS O'DELE, a former SCIC employee, and is known

to be in frequent contact with him She has been responsible

for che purchase or numerous copies of the publication

"Freedonmays" some of nich were formarded to sold Offices

1n Atlanta and others to an SCIA School at Dorchester, Georgias

÷ 9÷

NW 55167 DocId: 32989643 Page 64

---

## Page 65

AT

100-6520-D

YAFK:elt

To date there are no known other subversive

affiliations on the part of employees of SCIC in the Atlanta

Office.

It is suggested that as a counter-intelligence move

In this area, that the Bureau or New York may, through its

sources or in other ways, establish publically the utilization.

of "Freedomways", and its connection with the Communist Party,

by SoLe.

0. Hide-Away

It Is noted that the apartment frequently utilized

by KING for his clandestine romances (FRED BENNEIT's apartment)

and ostensibly for writing and resting purposes, has been

located at 3006 Delmar Lane, N.W., Atlanta, Georgia. It Is

noted that this apartment is on the ground floor level

having a separate front and rear entrance. The apartment

bullding is of two story construction with partial basement

throughout.

members On the Negro race This apartment project is surrounded

on elther side by other multi-dwelling unit Negro apartments.

Directly behind the apartment occupied as a hide-away, a

main line of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad is located.

On

the other side of the railroad, approximately 150-200 yards.

resident,

be observed. ALLEN Is a Plumbing Inspector for the City of

Atlanta Constriction Department. The Atlanta Police Departments

Atlanta Credit Bureau and Atlanta indices have no record of

ALLEN or his wife, MARIE. Possibly with a Zoomar lens during

daylight hours and with

fleld glasses, the rear entrance only

of the hide-away could be covered from the ALLEN residence.

However, the value of anything obtained from this type of

coverage is not believed would add to information already

Inown to the Atlanta Office. Therefore, no recommendations

along these lines are being made from a physical coverage

standpoint.

It is noted that the front entrance is directly

across a parking lot from an apartment occupied by JAMES

BEVEL and his wife and small child.

BEVEL 1s an employee of.

SCIE.

• 10 -

INTA

55167

DocId: 32989643

Page

65

---

## Page 66

AT

100-6520-D

Consideration has been given to requesting Bureau

authority for a technical survey in this area; however.

Atlanta sources have on numerous occasions indicated

an Interest on the part of KiNG and BENNet of obtaining.

another apartment in another area.

In the event this does

not materialize, Eureat authority for technical survey of

this fas1l1ty will be requested. In regard to the utilization

of a misur. it is noted that the same baste secury problem

of an all Negro neighborhood is involved.

Recently certain modifications have been made in

the office space occupted by SCIo.

Quarters were enlarged

and additional employees hired. It is unknown but belleved

that additional telephone facilities may have been obtained

and are possibly being Installed at this time.

Atlanta will

in the near luture,

through sources, determine what facilities

nonservice the orfice

therefrom.

visas

"and "make appropriate recommendations

кономобійдектийонькоонн

The Atlanta Office will, by separate communication,

request Bureau authority for making a survey realting to

possible installation of trash cover 1n the office facilities

of SCLe.

The above analysis is being set forth withh

certain recommendations bearing in mind the main objective of this

investigation is to determine extent of communist influence

In racial matters and as to how the effectiveness of KING

can be neutralized or diseredited, either through commun ist

connections, his moral degradation or his financial

operations.

NW 55167

DocId: 32989643 Page 66

---

## Page 67

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10.

5010-104

@'NITED STATES GO

INMENT

Memorandum

DECLASSILLEL

ON 10/16

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-3-116)

SECRET

4/14/64

FROM

SAC, NEW YORK (100-151548)

3,

SUBJECT:

CPUSA-NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN

RACIAL MATTERS

IS-C

(C0: NY)

• CLASSIFIED BY

EXFMPT FROM GOS CATEGORY 2

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INDEFINITE

Sorc

Re Bureau letter to Atlanta, 4/1/64.

The New York Office has analyzed its

coverage of the

PUSA's attempts to influence racial matters, bothjas to the

attempts and direction being given by the farty as a nationa.

operation and specifically as concerns any influence on MARTIN

LUTHER KING and the Southern

Christian Leadership

Conference

1

I (SCIC).

HARS

v I.

Relationship of the CPUSA -

to Racial Matters

ions

NW 55167

w.r.J

Intensified coverage is afforded to

the

national headquarters at 23 West 26th Street, New

Party's

York City,

through the following sourcès:

NY- 2353-5*

NY 2745-5*

• NY- 2357-S*

-NX2858-S*

NY2359-S*

No 2010-1538

NY 3270-57

•N 2017=5*

NY 2362-5*

NX 3953=S**

(cr

In addition, coverage of the Party's interest in

racial matters is also afforded by NY 694=s* and CG-5824-5*,

because of their personat contacts with Party officials,

particularly fuS lAtb.

Coverage also is given by technical

when feasible, of specific events such as the meeting of

the CPUSA National Negro Commission (NNC) in Chicago, in

February, 1964, and also by live informant coverage.

In the

case of the NNC meeting in Chicago, it was covered by several

live informants including BA 975s, a member of this Commission. (S)

- Durant (200-520) (Into), (RM)

1179

10

91 APR 15 1964

1 - New York (100-151548) (414)

JHO: gmd

(4)

LETOAT CONY A lot

SILENT

Qohai8964

This document is arent

in response to.

Dour request and is not for dissemì-

nation outside your committee.

-i,'

your committee and the content man not be disdlost

ito unauthorized person-

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

DocId: 32989643

Lage

67

SECRET

---

## Page 68

NY 100-151548

It is felt that this coverage is adequate and, as ir

the case of the NNC meeting, coverage will continue to be afforded

to these type meetings which will bear upon the Party's policies

with respect to the

racial situation in the United States.

As regards the extent of the Party's

*intluence in

racial matters, generally, in the United States, it is noted

that in October, 1903, there was a meeting of the National

Executive Committee (NEC) of the CPUSA, the first two days.of

which were devoted to a report on civil rights. BENJAMIN DAVIS

delivered the report on the civil rights movement, during which

he stated that the Party should bear in mind the possibilities of

extending its influence in the Negro movement, adding that the

image of the Party as a militant organization among the Negro

people has been dimmed.

..=.

..! ...

DAVIS said the Party has credits in the Negro struggle,

including its participation in numbers in the March on Washington,

but "we" have not brought the Party forward up to now and have

failed to solve the problem of how to indicate to the Negro the

line of march.

He added that "we" have shown some responsibility

in relation to the Negro freedom movement but still do not have a

clear line on the role Communists have to play.

He called for the

Party to find a center in the south around which to rally

progressive forces and said they must get into the struggle in the

South and help solve some of the problems, even though there are

obstacles in the way, because otherwise the Party would be set

back for years.

At the NNC meeting in Chicago in February, 1964, BENJAMIN

DAVIS gave the opening report, during which he discussed the role

of the CP. He said the CP is not in a position to solve the

many organizational questions facing the Negro movement, but

can establish a secure base in this movement if it developes

and demonstrates a sound line and policy.

He asked why the CP

must always be discussing how to associate with existing movements

and said the Party must take more initiative and organize

independent movements around the needs of the people. He said

the CP must act boldly and that the entire CP must be involved

in the Negro people's struggle.

2

NW 55167 DocId: 32989643 Page 68

---

## Page 69

NY 100-151548

JAMES JACKSON, at this meeting, sald that the CP has

not recruited from the cream of the crop

• of the Negro people's

movement and that the leaders of the Negro people's movement are

not associating themselves with the CP.

He said this has to be a

direction of the CP's work.

154, 147 2

The Party, at the present time, through its press,

"The Worker"

, is giving considerable coverage to civil rights

actions throughout the United

States and editorially is calling

for a strong civil rights bill.

I6 also has backed demonstrations

such as the school boycotts of public schools.

I1.

Communist Influence on SCLC

and Its Leaders

the scue operation in New York has been, until recently,

at 312 West 125th Street, New Yörk City. /The function of this

sIlIce appears to be that or operating the mailing procedures oi

che conference.

This operation was handled successfully by

HUNTER PINTS: O'DELL, also known as Jack:O'Dell, and was directed

privarily toward mailings of fund appeals for the SCLO. O'DELL,

however, was dismissed from the SCLC by MARTIN LUTHER KING in the

Summer of 1963, following public disclosure in the press of his

Communist background.

O'DELL recently is reported to have

stated

that he has not seen

MARTIN LUTHER KING since June, 1963.

Following O'DELL's dismissal, the operation of the

New. York Office of the SCLC floundered under the direction of

RUTH BAILEY, an employee who had worked there for o'DELl.

New York has no subversive information concerning BAILEY.

However

it is felt that because of her possible dismissal

from the SCLC, she can be the subject of a counterintelligence

effort..

At present, the New York office operation of the scLo

is being handled by one ADELE KANIER out of the office of the

Ganahi Society for Human Rights, 15 East 40th Street, New York

City.

There is no known subversive information concerning her.

-3-

55167 DocId: 32989643 Page 69

---

## Page 70

NY. 100-151548

As regards the operation of the New York Office of

the SCLO

and personal contacts with MARTIN LUTHER KING, the

persons

who are now directly involved are CLARENCEZONES and

STANLET LEVISON.

In addition, BAYARD RUSTIN is being considered

for a position with KING and the SCLC, but it does not appear

that he will accept this post.

The following information

concerns these

• three individuals:

5xan

STANLEY LEVISON, along with CLARENCE JONES, IS one of

the prime movers in the SCLC. As a close confidant of KING,

LEVISON has been instrumental in setting policy in the SCLC.

He normally meets with KING each time he visits the New York

area, and has made trips to Atlanta to consult on matters. (P(4)

As of July, 1963, LEVISON-was a secret member of the

In late 1963 and early 1964, he criticized the it for

not being sufficiently militant in the civil rights struggle.

LEVISON was described by certain CP leaders as being to the

"Ieft" of the CP in his position on civil rights, and because

of these differences with CP leaders, LEVISON is not now under

CP discipline in the civil rights field. There has been no

indication, however, that LEVISON does

not continue his

ideological adherence to communism. A?(4/

Following LEVISON's criticism of

the Party, BEN DAVIS

was designated to be the intermediary between LEVISON and the

Party.

However, there has been no indication that LEVISON has

made any attempt to contact DAVIS, HALL or anyone else in the

Party.

•C(4)

CLARENCE JONES is a Negro attorney who, in addition to

practicing law with LUBELL, LUBELL and JONES, is

• the General

Counsel for the Gandhi Society for Human Rights, 15 East 40th

Street, New York City. JONES also represents MARTIN LUTHER

KING, JR.

JONES has been identified as a person who, during

late 1953 or early 1954, was a member of and in a position of

leadership in the Labor Youth League (LYL, which has been

designated pursuant to Executive Order 10450).

JONES is quite

- 4 -

NW 55167 DocId: 32989643

'Page 70

---

## Page 71

NY 100÷151548

frequently in contact with STANLEY LEVISON and in these contacts

they have discussed problems relating to MARTIN LUTHER KING and

his activities, the SCeC in Atlanta, the operation of the SCLC

office in New York and civil rights in general.

One function which

JONES serves at the present time is intermediary between LEVISON

and KING since direct contact between LEVISON and KING has been

on a limited basis.

It is to be noted that no information has

been developed that CLARENCE JONES has been in contact with any

officials of the CPUSA or that any effort has been made by CPUSA

officials to direct JONES in the civil rights movement.

RUSTIN, the leader of the March" on Washington,

the New York City School Boycott and the. March on Albany, New York,

has "been seriously considered for the position of Northern

Coordinator for the SCLC.

this seems to be somewhat

in doubt at taio time, vecauou muoni prefers to sporato an am

independent capacity, and due to the reluctance of KING to appoint

him at this time.

Recently, indications were that RUSIIN was setting up

It is not believed

I that RUSTIN is going to accept the

referenced position in the SCLC, which would preclude contact with

KING and other SCLC

leaders.

Furthermore, there has not been

any indication that he has contacted any CP leaders except

BENJAMIN J. DAVIS. He asked DAVIS' advice as to how he could

escape from speaking at a rally sponsored by the Emergency

Committee for Disaster Relief to Cuba. Although RUSTIN contacted

DAVIS, it is not believed that he is in contact with other CP

leaders, or that he is sympathetic to the CP cause.

substantiate this, RUSTIN as late as April 9, 1964, after

addressing a meeting of the National Council of the Fellowship

of Reconciliation, Nyack, New York, said he was opposed to the

Communist movement. He said there was no ultimate principle

or position in their movement; that he learned first-hand of the

Communists' desire to submerge the goal of social justice as a

former member of the Youth

Communist League before and after

the end of World War II.

- 5 -

NW 55167 DocId: 32989643 Page 71

---

## Page 72

NY 100-151548

Freedomways" Magazine

This magazine is self-described as a quarterly review

of the Negro freedom movement and is a publication established

and financed by the CPUSA.

Outwardly, it purports to be a

legitimate publication with np connection with the CPUSA.

However, it identifies ESTHER/JACKSON_as Managing Editor and -

the Winter, 1964 issue published a Statement of Ownership filed

Shows the denie of the sporation, are donaya A sociates, Inc.

which publishes the magazine, as HENRY MAYBIELD,

BURNHAM "and CYRIL PHILIP:

MAYFIELD was a CP member in Brooklyn, New York, who

•December: 1963, but DOROTHY BURNHAM is married to

CYRIL

piTti? hos been identifled in The Workey the the, treasurer

of the Hall-Davis Defense Committee.

However, the principal operators of the publication

are ESTHER JACKSON, JOHN CLARKE, an Associate Editor, and O'DELL,

who is now affiliated with the magazine and has contributed

articles to the last two issues.

This publication is seeking to extend its circulation

and influence and O'DELL has been instrumental in this endeavor.

Because of his background in work for the SCLC, he still has

contacts in the civil rights movement and can be of great heir

in increasing the circulation of "Freedomways"

through legitimate

civil rights organizations

such as the scle.

O DELL has

discussed the use of "Freedomways" within the SCIC with EDWINA

SMITH, a Secretary in the National Office of the SCLC in Atlanta,

who is alleged to be.his girlfriend. Recently, EDWINA SMITH

ordered copies of "Freedomways" to be sent to SEPTIMA P. CLARK,

the Director of Teacher Training and Citizenship Education Program

of the SCLC, and to the SCLC Headquarters itself.

-

NW 55167 DocId: 32989643 Page

72

---

## Page 73

..

NY 100-151548

IV. Recommendations

With respectato BENJAMIN J. DAVIS, it is to be noted

that he is Chairman of the National Negro Commission of the

CPUSA, and in this capacity would be in possession of information

concerning the CP's position and activities with respect to the

Negro Question in the civil rights movement.

It is also to be

noted that in the recent past, DAVIS has been in contact with

BAYARD RUSTIN. In view of this information, it is being recommended

that NY 1009-s*, who would be in a position

to furnish information

concerning DAVIS and his activities, be reactivated; however, this

recommendation was submitted recently by the New York Office

the bureau. Ior

its approval, but it was not allowed at that

time.

. ?:

A sepäräte letter will be submiuted recommending

reinstitution of 17-1359-8*. (4)

With respect to the SCLC office in New York City, it

is to be noted that the SCLC has its office at 312 West 125th

Street, New York City, in which office RUTH BAILEY works; however,

ADELE KANTER, who is

an employee of the SCLC and who is frequently

in contact with LEVISON, has office space in the Gandhi Society for

Human Rights, 15 East 40th Street, New York City. It is being

recommended that additional coverage be afforded to the SCLC in

this location. Details of this additional coverage will be

contained in a separate communication to the Bureau. It is also

to be noted that the possibility exists that the entire New York

office of the SCLC will be housed at the Gandhi Society.

It is also being recommended that an anonymous letter

be sent from Atlanta to RUTH BAILEY, SCIC employee in New York City,

in an effort to cause disruption in the New York office of the

SCLC and cause friction among RUTH BAILEY, ADELE KANTER, STANLEY

LEVISON and CLARENCE JONES.

The details of this will be

submitted to the Bureau by separate communication.

On 3/25/64, EDWINAXSMITH, Secretary to the Program

Director of the SCLC, Atlanta, Georgia, ordered 50 copies of

" me we wi

-7-

MW 55167

DocId: 32989643

Page 73

---

## Page 74

SEXPET

NY 100-151548

"Freedomways" sent to Mrs.

SEPTIMA P CLARK at the Dorchester

Community Center, Midway. Georgia,

and 25 copies for the SCLC

Headquarters at 334 Auburn Street, Atlanta, Georgia.

It would

appear that these magazines may be intended for use

in the

SCIC's training school and it is suggested that the Atlanta

Office may be able to determine from a public source that

"Freedomways" is being used by the SCIC in its training schools.

II such information is obtained, then consideration could be given

this information.

embarrassing and

disruptive to the SCIC.

- 8

-

---

SEGRET

L NW 55167 Docid: 32989643

Page 74

---

## Page 75

1 - Mr.

Phillips

SAC, Atlanta (100-6520)

Director, FBI (100-3-116)

COMMUNIST PANTY, USA,

COLINESE TELENCE IN RACIAL FATTERS

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

Aps21 1, 1964

PERSONAL ATTINTION

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

"===

1964

You vill recall that at the Seat of Government

conference attended by two Agents of your office on

December 23, 1963, 10x the purpose of exploring possible

avenues of additional investigation in connection with

captioned matter, it was decided that because of the

necessity for an

extrenely discreet approach by the Bureau

in this matter and because certain laceis of our investi

gation were then relatively new. this macter vould be

reappraised in approxinately 90 days.In the interia, your

office was to give consideration to a number of matters baving

potential for further inquiry. These included: possibilities

of anonynous source contacts; possibilities of ucllizing

contacis in the neus media field; initlating discreet cheeks

relative to developing baciground infornation on ouployees

of the southern Christian Leadership Conference (OCIC);

remaining alery to the possibility of capitalizing on any

disgruntled SCiC employce; the possibility of developing

information concerning any financial dealings of King which

may be illegal; and the development of subversive information

pertaining to sere employees.

MAILED 3

COMM-FBI

The Bureau appreciates the

suggestion recently made

by you that another conterence be held at the Seat of

Government with represontatives of both your office and the

New York Office because of the extensive coverage being

given by New Yorks in this matter. The Bureau has given

thorough consideration to this suggestion but believes that

at this tine, rather than a conference, receiving offices

should nake a

thorough self-analysis of the handling of this

case and related aspocts such as investigations of indiriduals

alson

almont

and organizations close to tue commnist intluence in racial

she

Isper

illahan

nrad

Loach

2 - Ne# YOUE

(100-152548) (PERSONAL ATTENTION) / 1-1/Q

17 gram

ans

le

sen

REG 41

livan

-This doorio

rel

it is prepared in responserto your gpquest and is not for dissemi-

tter

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

3. Room —

• nes -

your Committee and the contentma nut be dischased to unauthonized person-

inet without the express approval of the FBI.

NWY55167 DocIdA2985543 TEENT

---

## Page 76

Latter to Atlanta

RE: CONNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO QUESTION

200-3-136

natters.

some of the things to be considered ae those

enumerated above although they should not be considered

ahl-inclusive.

0i particular consideracion should be she

matter of Ired Bennett of Achanta as 2t pould appear that

intensified coverage of him right develop pertinent inzon

mation relating to Martin Inthes King. This spectile natter

was brought to your attention by other correspondense recently.

At this time it is desired that both receiving

oilices give the matter of instant investigation & thorough

analysis with a view covard suggesting new avenues of

Invescigation and intensification in areas alzeady being

explored. Bear in mind the main goals in this natter; namely.

determining the extent of the communist influence in racial

matters 200

I taking such action as is appropriato to neutralize

or completely discreate the effectivenoss vi Nastin inther

King, Jo, as a Negro Leader becauso Of the commusist influencea

upon 132m.

Within 15 days of the receipt of chis letter, htlauta

and New York should Zuznish the Bureau observations and

recommendations in accordance with the foregoing.

NW 03167

DocId: 32989643

Page 76

---

## Page 77

* #NITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN'S UNCLASSIFIED

-Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Gallahan

Conrad

PeLoachi

Evan:

TO

: Mr. A. H. Belmont

FROM : Mr. H. C. SullivanUC

SUBJECT:

DATE:

December

24, 1963

1-Nx .Belmont

1-Mr. Sullivan

I-Mr. Baumgardner

1-Mr'. Gurley

I-Mr. Ryan

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter .

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

COMMUNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE

IN

RACIAL

INTERNAL SECURITY - COMMUNIST

MATTERS

Partit

In view of the influence the Conmunist Party, USA (CPUSA),

the Kilo pad of she out a dolored e de between erience

the Director approved a conference be held between repre-

sentatives of our Atlanta Office and Seat of Government personnel.

Recognizing the delicacy of this entire situation because

"of the prominence of King,

; the primary purpose of the conference was

•to explore now best to carry on our investigation to produce the...

desired results without embarrassment to the Bureau. Included in

our discussion was a complete analysis of the avenues of approach

"almed at neutralizing King as an effective Negro leader and developing

evidence concerning King's continued dependence on communists for

guidance and direction.

The conference was held at the Seat of Government on

12-23-63. It was attended by Security Supervisor Henry Rowse and

SA Robert Nichols irom our Atlanta Office.

The Seat of Governnent:

representatives were Assistant Director W. C. Sullivan, Inspector

Joseph A. Sizoo, Section Chief F. J. Baumgardner and Supervisors

I.. T. Gurley and David Ryan. The conference lasted from 9 a.m..to

6 p.m.

Assistant Director Sullivan briefed the conference on the

task at hand.

He pointed out the necessity for good judgment and

discreetness in conducting any investigation concerning this matter.

He made it clear it was necessary for us to continue obtaining

evidence of the CPUSA's influence on King and, through King,

r.

1u

nc

on the Negro people.

Mr. Sullivan also stressed the fact that,

although King is a minister, we have already developed information

(concerning weaknesses in his character which are of such a nature

las to make him unfit to serve as a minister of the gospel.

Mi. Sullivan pointed out that the field should continue to

Igather information concerning King's personal activities, such as

100-3-1161

FJB: Skw.

(6)

This document is predared in response,

150911

your requestund is, not for dissémi-

naron; ovuse your Committee.

your Commingrand the

to limited to official proceedings bu

51 JAN33196 AN 8 1964

nel wurthout the express approvar,

be disclose to wauthonize person

NW 55167

DocId: 32989642

---

## Page 78

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

RE:

COMMUNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

100-3-116

getting drunk and associatingwith women other than his wife, in

order that we may consider

Itime

using this information at

an opportune

in a counterintelligonce move to discredit him.

During the discussion which followed, the men from the

field outlined in detail the operation of the SCLC in Atlanta and

the manner in which it is managed by King.

Our discreet approach to this case has been necessitated

by King's prominence and the delicate situation which surrounds the

entire racial movement. A vrong move could well result in extreme

embarrassment to the Bureau.

As a result of the conference, It was

decided we need to develop additional information in the following

NATTES

areas:

• (1) • We must deteimine aud chech out all of the employees

of the SCIC.

(2) We must locate and monitor the funds of the sciC.

(3)

We must identify and check out the sources who

contribute to the SCLC.

(4)

We must continue to keep close watch on King's

personal activities.

(5)

(6)

person but is exploiting the racial situation for

personal gain.

We will explore the possibility of utilizing additional

specialized investigative techniques at the SCLC office.

Our technical coverage on King and the SCLC is producing

excellent information. It was decided that, in view of this fact

and since we could not engage in active investigation at this time

without embarrassment to the Bureau, we would hold in abeyance opel

investigation as outlined above for

another 90 days. During this

time, ve witl utilize the information obtained from our technical

coverage and conduct whatever investigation can be made discreetly.

- 2 -

NIX

55167

Docid: 32989643

Page 78

---

## Page 79

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

RE: COMMUNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

100-3-116

This conference proved to be most beneficial, and the

men from the lield expressed their appreciation for the opportunity

of being brought into the Seat of Government for the purpose of

exploring this entire matter.

They were both enthusiastic about

the case and stated the conference was of exceptional benefit to

them and will be of assistance in setting the future course of the

investigation.

ACTION:

We will continue to give this case priority attention

both

at the Seat of Government and in the field and will expose

King for the clerical fraud and Marxist he is at the first

opportune at the end o1 the su day perzoa, or sooner ti

conditions permit, we will make

a further recommendation as to

whether we are in a position at that time to take further action

against King and the SCLC without embarrassment to the Bureau.

Fr?

AWes

3

LN 55167

DocId: 32989643

Page 79

---

## Page 80

1t-99-1048 1800

- QUESTLONG

SO. UN MEZZORED ME CONDANENCE

32/28/83/10 G/4223

• 2A07725

AEL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINIS ONCLASSIFIED

DATE 10/10,00 BYSPALM CY

Ý, rot at

12) Can colored

agento be of any assistance

to- us-in the

mit Athanie-ared ane, it so, bor may will be

needed?

...Lu..

(2) Possibilities of caricco

anonynous solross at

Lone of

Ne Do 3644090914

Manage

(3)

That de

we know abous tho

background ot king"s girt

12Len0u Rho

, their husbaadst

Hidde

n, Could M

their neak-points to-strong

poznie torius?

(0) Loos tie-oldtoo had day-conthets nong winisterg, both

colored dre

pho are la

a-position

co bo.03

Lascastence and,

41. Nor

Run whos manner could se use thent

Does the bffice have contacts hrohg" nostrayer

Bcople

-and/cr ci munista ratli mon hono in contacti

-16%: Touid vesurs and/or aroun on ring's girlizenda belo tg

cet an & couater acolli ones nove,

= basar deniad

the

i"possibitzty of selophoning dro artericials bustand wien.

ring is capen to berco the

13000

he carewe

use her?

2262k

939/224

S4900)

there

any Alonzuntied enslovecs ab. Bole anc/os tornion

3.3.7011 That fs the

id Hold bittoon Dä King's girlfriends:

stole hin

share-angjador, he thog-use tha front door. on:.

"back door?

that 15

the popsibility on catting up & photo

croughy"

andiusing & friendly-nowspaperian of TY Socion to record.

this activity?

(This would be sinilar to 023 activisy in

Boston sovera: months aro ven thas company made & filn oi

polios citances viattine sodiale soinea an tha Bonean sace.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your

committee.

Its use is himited to official proceedings by

your committee and the content may nut be aisclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

•NN-581044

$0ad

Id: 32989643 * Page 80

---

## Page 81

=.

Partre.

i ".

(Le) What are cha

poseibilities of placing.a.good loosing:

not at ih fui female plant fa-king'a ofiscer

•(13) Do we have any information concerning any shady financial

Miscell

dealings of jing which could be used to our advantage?

PENICKA

has this pottt

ever neon.explgred before?

(14)

Discuss the possibillty of haying an Agent accompany Ridg

the und

and any gizlfriend vtio might travel together.

lister

mislet,

the Agent vould ba aware of the ildentity and/or

description o1 the CompRAIOn and Mould pIcellde ital

possibilit, of embarrassment in the event-of a counter-

Intelligenzo nove, bearing in wind that has King Isaves

with a girlfriend sho could disembark at-sone point along

the route. and King: could be joined by his uite pator to

roaching his final-Lestination

(16) Instrüct that in the future Atlanta to to call informa-

-tOn

to other.

officos vien Fing is travoling rather. thar

send a teletypo .and instruct the other offices: to

Liberise.

_It the mannot

the sinle chiant of attarting.

to expost ding cha he explained.

^.

0: 516)

Full and complete

discussion on the fact that we are

attempting to expose king becausa of comuutat influences..

brought to bear on him-and that in addition to balug::

anare of his travels and actuaties. we

are nost. Inter

ested fir expasing hair in sone maner 'os.

anothor in orderf

to discredit him.

(17) A d180'33

tom on tha

arrect proach to ling throug thes

- use of hirrorficu

suches hobert I. Kennedy and

Asaistant Directer

Sevan an

Qut.

to him tho.

trẻ

endous:

which te

EMerso reader

some at

the

infornation thich

there.

sangett:

Lahorent In such an

proack bit tt camet be discourted:

and sone discusstor

bulaitate placo ate ta sangers

and advantages.

-110:

WW.1079 0041d 32989843 •Page-81

---

## Page 82

chae

• Kiag

and verdous

coreanists

carversives vill

aoct in Aclante

;consideration should

be Caven

to tho use of all invostigative techniquay -in

• COVETIRE

suck noet.

• Consider sli ccuncerintellipence

posalbilities to neutralias or diazup, ouch neeting and

subnet your plans to the Bureau for approvald

(10) Fulleat consteemation nust be glyen to any idizuence maic

?

attording. to the racias situation.

(20) A56-213 Sployees of 2CLC Wlin subversive backgrounds or

connections bolor given eppropriate atcention?

ADe new

employect.ot sold chocked out for cubversive background

Fier's and/or possible use as sources?

(81) Becauso of the Bureau'e responstbillty. for tinely dis

of pertinent infornation to the Deparinent

-and other interested

agencies;

It 1s nora than ever

nocosaury that-all. facets of this msties recoive prompt

handling.

-The succoss of our efforts-is- dependent. upon

the judicious applicatios of ail- available investigative

techniques coupled

with neticulous planing, boldness and

tennered with rood fudrent:

-Qui disczetion

2u34.20t reach

the point of tindesty.

---

## Page 83

1.4

"UNITED STATES GOVE'

MENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM : NT. F. J. Baumgard

SUBJECT:

COMMUNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

INTERNAL SECURITY - COMMUNIST

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

- BY SMALe

Tolson

-Belmont*

Mohr

yesper

•Conrad

A DeLocit

Evans .

DATE: December 19, 1963

& Sullivar

1 - Mr. Belmont

Fave

Mre

Pratte

Sullivan

Pele. Roos

= Admintstrative,

Division

I - Ni. Baumgardner dad

1 - Mr. Denz

1 - Mr. Gurley

sitter

This menorandum recommends that Special Agent Henry G. Rowse,

Security Supervisor, and Special Agent Robert R. Nichols, both of the

Atlanta Office, be ordered to report to the Bureau on 12/23/63 for a

one-day conference in order to explore fully the communist influence

in racial matters as it pertains to Martin Luther King, JX., whose head-

quarters are in Atlanta, Georgia, and to discuss avenues of

approach to

expusing King's unholy alliance with the Communist Party, USA (CPUSA) •

The racial unrest in the United States is currently the target

for a determined concentration of communist effort. communists are usiug

every means possible to divert the course and torce of the unrest into

support of communist objectives.

Long-range communist strategy looks

to the establishment of a Negro-labor coalition which the communists

hope to be able to manipulate as a powerful political action weapon.

This communist goal constitutes a serious national security problem

in

light of the fact that the individual playing a most dominant role as a

leading spokesman for the estimated 20 million Negroes in this country

today, Martin luther king, ox, Is knowingly, willingly and regularly

cooperating with and taking guidance from communists.

King is using the

communists and in turn is being used by them.

1. a

:711

The composite of intormation avarlante about king depicts an

unprincipled opportunistic. Inalyidual, as well as a man considered anc

described within the Party as a Marxist.

Because of the important role

he plays in

the Negro movement and communist influence being brought to

bear upon him, Atlanta has been instructed to keep the Bureau and pertin-

ent offices advised of King's travels and his activities.

Those offices

have also been instructed to take no action which would embarrass the

Bureau or which would make King aware of our coverage of him.

In order to explore fully the communist influence intradiano

matters and pin down all facets of the investigation as it pertains to

ning, as well as to discuss avenues Of approach to exposing. Kig uro

alliance with the CrUSA and

the delicacy of handling this phase of our

investigation, it is deemed advisable and fully justified to have Henry c.

100-3-116

JAUN

LTG: km;

NW 55167

DocId: 32939643

his document is prepared in

nation, o tsuse your Committee: Its use is limit

est and is not for kissemi-

at to official proceedingsoy

your, commuttee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person-

me need the express ant the al.

1964

---

## Page 84

Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan

RE:

COMMUNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

100-3-116

Rowse, the security supervisor, and Robert R. Nichols, the case Agent,

both of the Atlanta Office, report to the Bureau on 12/23/63 for a

one-day conference.

ACTION:

That the attached teletype directing Rowse and Nichols to

report to the Bureau on 12/23/63 be approved.

Was

- 2-

NW 55167 DocId:32989643 Page 84

---

## Page 85

PLAIN TENE

12/20/62

JASSINA

sat front fond

com

XT.

sir.

Belcont

3u11lvaR

хрота

LIVE MITINION

I - Ar. Bauagarc

101

LOnE

Curley

TO SAC ATLANTA

FROK DEANCROS 12X

ODISIUKEST DASTE, USA, NES2O CUBSCION, COURIESE INFLUENCE

IN LACIAL SATTERS, IS - C.

SPECIAL ACENTS MEHNX G. RONSE AND RODEE E MICH0L3

INSINCEND APPORT DO ONFICE OS ANSISTANT DENSION WILLIAS 6

SULLIVAN WINS ANN. BONEMES THANTS-GLE BANE TOR OUTER

COSPURENCEA RACE BROULD EX IZEDARED 30 DIECUES ALE SEPICES

OR CAPTIONED MATTER YOUB TEREZZORY&

I0G; KET

(8)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DARE NOTE BYSAL C

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

ROTS:

кризакопокат

Ses mono Enungaziner to Sullivan dated 12/10/63 captioned

Es 230003

kit:lay.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

your committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person-

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

- NW 55167

Docid: 32989643. Page 85

---

## Page 86

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

¡EREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEL

DATE 10/1e/00 BY SALAa

62-116395-650

1 - 1G

SEP: eks

9/8/75

THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

U. S. SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE ON

Re is made to chis Bu's

INTELLIGENCE

letter and nemo dated

ACTIVITIES (SSC)

9/3/75, which effected a

partial delivery to the SSC of materials

concerning Dr. Martin" Luther King, Jr., based on

SSC requests dated July 8, 1975, and July 14;

1975.

Encld fosa approval and forwarding to

the SSC is the orig of a memo in further/partial

response to the aforementioned two SSC requests.

=.

NW 55167 Docia: 32989643 Page 88-

---

## Page 87

SSC LETTER 7-14-75

ITEM #7

RETAIN

DocId: 32989643

Page 87

---

## Page 88

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Noverber 7, 1003

MEMORANDUM TO ME. TOLSON

MR. BELMONT

MR. DE LOACH

AiR. ROBEN

ME. SULLIVAN

Ca October 28, 1983, the Attorney General called at my office

and discussed e nmber of mattere.

The first matter discussed was the Bobby Baker case and its.

varicus ramificationa. I informed tha Attorney General that we were

daily recciving memoranda from the Criminal Division of the Department

asing for additional investigationg and we had given this particular catter

top priority.

10

I stated there was no doubt that Baker had been assoctating with

most undesirable cbaracters here in Washington and other parte of the

country. I stated that of course the Eureau was loosing into two spaciito

aspects of the case; namely, the conflict of loterest and any fraud which

he say baro porpetrated in disbursement of lunda at the Capitol.

We then discused the Bllen Rometach case. I outlined to the

Attorney General the decalls of thie situation and the ramifications ol it.

1571n

FILED fiN

I told him about the conversation that I had had with the Presidens

on the preceding Sunday by phone in which the President expressed concern

about the possible involvement of personnel at the White house. I stated

that we had immediately interviewed the rometsch woman, mho is now

Alving in Cologne, Germany, and

bad obtained a written statement irom

hes stating that she had had no ralations with anyone on the White House

staff. I acrised the Attorney General that she had declined to give the

UNRECORDED

names of any of her clients. I stated that the same attitude had been taken

- 116670

bison

elmont

by the other women who had been in the so-called "call girl" operation,

phr

asper

although one oi the women had admitted as having as clients ten or twelve

allahan Fenators.

snrad

-Loach

ile

XEROX

Isen

Ilivan

13)

REC- 25,

vel.

I-llas Holmes

NOV 12 1963

p9558-5520-

otter

22 NOV 12.1963

le. Room.

Imes: -

This document is prepared in response to your prquest and is not for dissemi-

ndy ..

MAIL ROOM

ration outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official praceedings by

Terpe gittee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the RBl.

WW 55167 DoeId: 32989643

Page 88

-116

---

## Page 89

• 1.

blemorandam to ilenare. Tolson, Eelmoat, Delouch,

rosce, culliven

Poveribar 7, lid

We then discacsed tha Mirmingham combing situation zad 1 aracd

the attornoy concrul of tho couraction unich t20-bini dico 20 4r03

Patrol Lad pisced in or way ot s'ut mas tbon aa carly solatio o tao cacca

bat teat to wore wor dag kensoly upon it add bood ultimacly to sea.à

to bring aboat tuo erareconcion di the percona re-"onciule for toe Dunica

of the crusch la triin tie loar Lule girl were aldledi.

The Attorzoy Genaral thon mentioned the rocoat aione crash oa

ths sace timo tit vo ict mano altribaion to trabichee lacicinicat,

the luniso i oado, tro uocal lotoligenco ingonogy and faz miate a natisodi

Io ctadod tuo bos sa quite concorued sbose tue concate becnuse valie it

eld not state that ing eue a comraunist, navertbeluss, one coal gulesiy

dren that conclusion. I tald him that every atafemont mode in the doculicer

Was accurate and supported by lacts.

He steted he of course roalized this bud felt that it world ba

desirable to rocail all oi the documenta becauae he did not low tto alse

migit see it other tion those to whom wo had distributed the does-.ant.

told the Attornay Conoral that hia request would be irreciatoly auled unai,

and aiter the ritorney lionerul leit my chice i coumanicated vita

ke. bolzont and ached him to see that ail coples ci the document had

been ostinod and kept in security.

Very truly yours,

•1. E. R

John Edgar hoover

Director

JUNT FROM_D. O

DATE.

DATE 17208013

BY -

- 2.

T 5515Y BoeId: 39999613 Page-29

---

