# docid-32298142

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10220-10418

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-114543-2ND NR 89

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, WMFO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/12/1964

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JURE, RCD, ASSOC, MEETING, ACA, MRRI, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32298142 Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

Released-unter the

DATE:

a R65130r.

11-3-15-26917

Revo

SECRET

F B5

290327

5/19/97

Transmit the folloWEr A SIFIED BY 56& SLO/RSKe

3/12/64

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

Fixpe in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Collection Act of 7992(44-152 2107 Hote).

Mr. Tolena nee

Mr.

Belmont.

Mr.

Mont

Mr.

Cannon

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Comrad

Mr. Dal/wh

Mr.

F. vans

2ir

Mr.

Rosen

Air.

Sulliter

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Prom.

Miss

Holmos

Miss Gandy,

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DERECTOR, EX 209-22-212) CONFISENTIAL

SAC, WFO (109-68) (P)

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS-

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

Wangle

IS- DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

(00:NY)

Enclosed are nine copies for the Bureau and one

ENC

each for information for designated offices of a LEM

dated and captioned as_above setting forth information

furnished by]WF 984-S*Jand NY 4116-S; who are mentioned

E7

therein in that order.

Original information from NY 4716=s is located in

New York File 105-42570-48, 49, 51,

52.04 /ul

the enclosure is classified "Confidential" *since

information from WF 984-S* reveals investigative interest ins

a diplomatic establishment of a foreign power and in adition

10-170

Г-Н)

Classied

Declassify

unauthorized disclosure of this information could result in

the identification of a confidential informant of continuing

value and compromise his effectiveness in the future.

WFO indices negative re GENIVAL RILLOS,

GENIVAL RIOS

ENCLOSURE

3.

I relaine struction

(4)S

Bureau (Enc.

Miami (105-1084)

(Enc. 1) (Info) (RM)

1- New York (109-107) (Enc.

i a 109 1221L

1- San Juan (97-18) (Enc. 1) (Info) (AM) (RU)

MAR 18 1964

Classinied by

Declassity oni

(1- 65-3731)

biliarson

105-114543

DMB : pkg

(8)

Copy to: CIA/State/RAO -I$D

NOT rECORDED

ONI/OSI/ACSI

by routing slip for into.

192 MAR 19 1964

AIRTEL

C. C. Wick

ENCLOSURY

7 Approved 23106/

59034

Special Agent in Charge

Dall: 5-16-9 VLINTON CONTAME 542

HEREIN IS UNCIASSITED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

- OTHERWISE

COME

SECRET

1 ORTOTAL

DocId: 32298142 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Repased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Retoris Collection Act of 1997 (11 USe 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Rejer to

File No.

CONFIDENt FAT

WASHINGTON 2S, D.C. 20535

March 12, 1964

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS- DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

INTERNAL SECURITY- DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

On March 11, 1964, according to a confidential

informant, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

Tad Szulc of the New York Times Bureau, Washington, D.C.,

contacted Ambassador Jose A. Bonilla Atiles at the Dominicans)

ALE INFORMATION CONTAINEO

HÉREIN IS UNCI ASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Embassy*

Szulc stated he had a friend, Rogelio Cisneros

(phonetic), a Cuban who is a leader of Junta Revolucionaria

Cubana (Cuban Revolutionary Junta, also known as: dURE).

According

to szule, Cisneros was in santo Domingo over a

year ago,

at which

time he discussed

cuba, and "Donald" had offered his heloth "Donald" ideas about

Szulc stated that

Cisneros had called him from Miami, where he is presently

living, and advised there had been a conference of Cuban

from Puerto Rico and Miami, during which they had

discussed actions by "greater Americal against Cuba. Cisneros

had told Szulc he urgently desired

another opportunity to

meet with "Donald"

', and Szulc told him he would contact his

Dominican friends and attempt to arrange a meeting:

requested assistance of Bonilla Atiles in arranging for this S

meeting for Cisneros and another individual, whose name he

believed to be Genival Rillos (phonetic), and to secure visas

for these two individuals. Bonilla suggested that Szulc

recontact Cisneros and ascertain the full name of the other

individual, and he would attempt to arrange for the visas and

contact "Donald" concerning the proposed meeting. (X)S

on the following day, according to the same informant,

Bonilla Atiles/contacted Donald Reid Cabral member of the

Classified by

Declassity on:

Triumviratelof the Dominican Republic? and recounted his (S

conversation with Szulc. (Reidistated he would be agreeable(S

to seeing these individuals, but no time was set for the meeting

Reid stated he recalled the two individuals recommended by Szulos

But did not identify them. (X)13)

A second confidential informant, who has also furnished

reliable information in the past,

advised

on October 31, 1963,

spalma 1194

that Rogelio Cisneros Diaz of 347 N.E. 36th Street, Miami,

Florida

was then the representative of JURE in Miami. (X(u)

1017-94

5/09

classified

НоУ SPBTAG

(JFK)

Declassify on: 0ADR6 28/85

SECRET!

CONFIDENTTAL

GROUP

Excluded froo

automatic

downgrading/

and

declassifigation

CLASSIE

ATION CONTIE.

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

5668 SLOKSR

DocId: 32298142 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Relgased under the John F. Kennédy Assassination Records CollectIon Act of 19927# uSe 2TUT Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

CONFIDENtIAL

RE: FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS- DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

On February 15, 1963, Manolo Ray Rivero was

interviewed by Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation

at Hato Rey, Puerto Rico, at which time he stated he was one

of the directors of the JURE,! which he described as a Cubar

of Fidel Castro of Cuba, and was

chapters in Central America, in addition to those located in

Miami, New York, and other localities. U

The official position of [Ambassador Bonilla Atiles](s)

was

oublished by the United states Department of state.

The

Ministers of the American Republics, December, 1963".

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is the property of

the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

CONFIDENTIAL

, SECRET

COMHOEMIIME

-2-

DocId: 32298142 Page 4

---

