# docid-32424907

## Page 1

Date: 08/04/98

Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JCS

: 202-10001-10176

FOIA SERIES

DOC 177

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 54214 Date:

29-13-2017---

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

÷ OSD

FROM

: BRIG. GEN. LANSDALE

TO :

TITLE : PROGRESS, OPERATION MONGOOSE

DATE: 06/20/62

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Reviewed by CIA,

State, OSD.

EXEMPT PER E.O. 13526

SEC 3.3(b) SAD X5

MAR

2016

DATE EXEMPTED:

US RE-REVIEW DATE: 3100C 20/37

OKAY TO TUENCASE AS REDACTIED

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 54214 DocId: 32424907 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

WASHINGTON 25. D.C:

(4)

20 June 1952

SENSITIE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SPECIAL GROUP (AUCM ENTEL)

Fron: Brig. Gen. Lansdale Ed

The Department of State has no objection to the

release or declassification of this document in full

under the pravisions of the JFK Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (PL102-526)

Subject: Prugsess, Operation Mongooße

Reénedon 1/30/98 MR

Internal Situatlor.

Your attention is invited to increased reports.

.In Chi's caily änd weckly summaries, of popular unrcat, political strife.

and conomic disruptions inside Cusa. It is surgesied that tie Special

Cruup (Augmenicá) consicer tue value of having as SulE on Cuba inace

1n the immediate future, as a preliminary to the more conclusive esti-

mate que at the cad of Phase I. Operation Moagoose. Since Phase l

16 scheculed to cad 31 July, it shoulá prove helpful to bare as firm a

fix on the Cuban situation as possible, in detcrmining any desirable

incrcase or special effort emphasis in our activities for the last monti

of Fhase l.

Fresicential Visit. Stale reports that the Presidool's forthcoining

visit to licxico naj oifer as opportunity for discussion of tie Communist

rogime in Havana and hopcíully some change in tre official irexican

government's attituce towards Castro.

Icfector. CL has agreed, as a malter of priority, to rcach a

stage in the intcrrogation of Bedro Relf (le Cuban Geonemie official

who defected in l'exicol vrere he can be surfaced to make public chaiges

of Cuban Cormunist oucrations against latin Ainerican nations.

It is

desired lo gain maxi nuin impact from liis slory on thie peuple of Cuia.

the poople anú governments of lalin Aricrica, and morio opinion. State

and UElA will bela. "canwhile, USIA reports that substantial press

coverage was given to

Boig a initial slate rent about Cuba's arms traific

and capionage sing in mexico.

NATO. Siate soporis it la maling a elecial cilort with the britisi

OSD: No GAUGETON do Ureal lie impasoe on lie NATO irport on Cuba. Secretary fusic will

AS REDACTED

2410098

discuss the problem in Lonion. Augistant Secretary Kobler hao toldi

the UK inbaaraior in lagnington that we find the Pritish atritud'o

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TOuRnelpful.

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

12:-104

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT& old

AS SANITIZED 215 JUNE

1Tu 155

(AXB)

SEISITIVE

EXCLUDED FROM GOS

"iC

Erd!

RECROAD DOD DID 6200.10

HH 54214

DocId:32424907 Page 2

This Co:

Carrie His

DOC #' 177,2PP

---

## Page 3

State las reported to me that wane meglean ray find iT

impossible to cuntinue ita bolaric lavana blichis witr.out financial

ansistance, Stale sold Calatrai di would re-exasine possiule sources

of financial assistance so that lie ilentà could la continurd. State

¿ccision by the Special Group..

VOA. The Voice of America continues li9 ¿fiective Intervicwa

with individual Cubang. On 12 June, VOl carried a half-hour program

of interviewe viti relatives oi prisoners in Castro's notorious isle

or Fines jail, scocribiag tie miserable conditiona in which political

pricuncIs are forced to crist.

for iig Icgular series last week, USLA

taped intervier's mili a farous Culin radio ard TV elar, a poor

fionerran ino escaped vida seven little chilóren, a construction

worker, an ovner of a food slore, and a time-keeper. The storice

of these people ring true ard indict tno segline in a sranner no other

mediura can do.

Prega. USIn'a prees output emphasleed Cagtro's admission of

mis-iranagement of Cuba'o agriculture, a refugee interview teiling

how Cuba's congimer incustries arc being ruined, and a commentary

on thie eirop la Cuban susar productioi.

"Vaire oí Cuba.

Sor operational effectiveness, Cladie

seleclou a now area in cüda for its initial racio brozucaris

cubmarine.

Tan lavy etatre that the new area is a feagible location

sor the operation

"Stale has concurred in the theme and content

the broaccasis:

riy suill tale place around the eno of tie munto

RI

Soccial Folitical Activities. The Chief of Deeratione has inad two

mectingo witi sobert curvilen since he war appointed as State's repre-

sentative for operaiions. Slate vas scied los proposed slate actiona

Elving apecial c:onagis lo Docration i onroode.

No propisals have

been'auunited jet; de. jurvilci hag promised them for ellinibaion

on 22 June. They will de included in a revision of lie 17 jay "Priorities

Schedule, " wich will then be ülairiünted.

"Ejes Unly" copies to:

1. General Taylor

2. Mr. Johnson

3. i:r. Cllustric

S. Mis. Fennedy

6. Coneral terinisces i

7. Chied of ipesationa

SENSITIE

HH 54214 DocId:32424907 Page 3

---

