# docid-32328310

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90073-10014

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-7599-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/05/1964

2

DAVE YARAS

DAVID YARAS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NH 45992

DocId: 32328310 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN: REG.*NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

:

FROM

Fail

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI

SAC, Miam (92-1047 Sub IL)

DAVID

YARAS, aka

AR

DATE: June 5, 1964

TUNI

11-

YARAS has recently been opened by the Miami Office

for investigation as a top hoodlum.

Information developed over the years in Miami and

Chicago indicates that YARAS is probably the chief representa-

tive of the Chicago "family" in the Miami area. This informa-

tion has been implemented by several informants in the Miami

Division, as well as information from a confidential source..

who advised in February, 1962, in the matter captioned "PROPOSED

MEETING OF CHICAGO HOODLUMS, MIAMI DIVISION, FEBRUARY, 1962,"

that YARAS, along with JACK CERONE, Chicago top hoodlum, were

given the primary responsibility in the proposed gangland execu

tion of one FRANK ESPOSITO, of Chicago, then vacationing in

Miami.

VARAS is on constant travel status between Chicago and

Miami, and appears to make

a visit to chicago at least once per

month.

maintains offices in the Biscayne_Building,

19 West Flagler,

Miami? In 1960,

Iwas opened as a PCI of

the Miami Office (Bufile 137-6394), however, he did not furnish

any information of value and was closed in 1961.

Information recently recéived from Chicago informant

CG,6758-C* has indicated a close relationship between the law

Firm of BIEBLER and BRODKIN and LURIE, and has also indicated

that the relationship between YARAS and LURIE is more than that

of client-attorney.

9.2 -

7599 -

Bureau (RM)

- Miami

RRH: amc

(3)

REC 12

JUN

1964

XEROX

1964.

6-10-14

DONORUE

NW 45992 DocId:32328310 Page 2

POTHER 4

CORDED COPY FILED IN

13

---

