# docid-32331173

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/10/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90096-10119

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2989-164

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

02/15/1963

17

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HH 45964

DocId: 32331173 Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 92-106

LOUISVILLE:

Identify owner of 1962 or 1963 Cadillac 2-door hardtop,

1963 Kentucky license 20-077 and if feasible, interview to

determine his relationship with the subject.

NEWARK:

AT SOUTH ORANGE, NEW JERSEY

Identify subscriber to telephone number SO 3-2392

and if feasible, interview concerning their relationship with

the subject or his son, CHARLES DEL MONICO.

AT EWING, NEW JERSEY

Identify subscriber to telephone number TU 2-0918

and if feasible interview concerning their relationship with

the subject or his son, CHARLES DEL MONICO.

NEW YORK:

CI 6-5787 has previously been identified as the

telephone number of NICHOLAS MORESE, tailor, 45 West 46th Street,

New York City.

New York will consider interviewing MORESE concerning

his relationship with the subject or his son, CHARLES DEL MONICO.

NORFOLK:

Refer to Miami report, dated 10/15/62, wherein it is

noted that WF 1108-C advised on

we Know was cast ONA,

9/11/62 that on the weekend of

F. NESLINE, weld known Washington, D.C., gambler were sent by

NESLINE to the Norfolk, Virginia, area for the purpose of setting

up a gambling club in the Hampton, Virginia, area.

FD-302 in

instant report, which

sets out toll calls for number UN 5-2932,

which is the telephone number in the residence of CHARLES DEL

MONICO, álso known as CHARLES WHITE, son of subject, reflects

- COVER PAGE -

NW 45964 DocId: 32331173 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-106

is contemplating instituting proceedings for a hearing to

determine the assets of the subject and that subpoenas will

be issued to persons presently in the Miami area who are in

a position to furnish information pertaining to his financial

status.

SA MARSHALL furnished names and addresses of the

following persons who are possibly in a position to have

knowledge of the subject's financial status:

CHARLES DEL MONICO

JOSEPH NESLINE

ARMAND CERAMI

MARVIN SCHULMAN

ANTHONY RUSSO

MARVIN STRAUSE

PH 623-C* advised on 12/22/62 that numerous

members of the Philadelphia family of La Causa Nostra

gathered with ANGELO BRUNO for the purpose of joining him

in a holiday drink and at which time they discussed some of

the members of La Causa Nostra. During this conversation,

ANGELO BRUNO related that RUGGIERO BOIARDO, also known as

JOE RICCI of Newark, New Jersey, has been a member of La

Causa Nostra for approximately

16 years, but was apparently

a powerful man in the Newark and Trenton, New Jersey, areas

even before becoming a member.

BRUNO further indicated that

most of BIARDO's associates from years ago, including the

subject, have become members of La Causa Nostra.

A confidential source abroad, referred to in instant

report, is information furnished by the

Police Judiciaire

(Criminal Police) of the Surete Nationale (PJSN) through the

Legat, Paris. This information furnished to Miami via Bureau

Routing $11p, dated 1/21/63. * (U)

The following information is set out in the

administrative section in order not to compromise the source:

MM 848-C advised SA C. GRAHAM HURST on 1/3/63,

that he was in the presence of the subject on the night of

1/1/63, when the subject telephoned one LEECETTE (phonetic)

who apparently is employed at the Carillon Hotel, Miami Beach.

D

- COVER PAGE -

4

41.

92-2989-164

NW 45964 DocId: 32331173 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 92-106

The subject made arrangements with LEECETTE for MARVIN STRAUSE

to take $3,000.00 in large bills over to LEECETTE and to get

in return

¡ 33, 000.00 in small bills. y

The information from the records of the Southern

Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company at Miami Beach, Florida,

was furnished by Mrs. LORRAINE ETTER. 4

The information received from the New England

Telephone and Telegraph Company, Providence, Rhode Island,

was Iurnished by Mrs. MARY HAGAN, Legal Office, Providence,

Rhode Island.

4

- INFORMANTS -

MM T-I is information obtained from Dun and Bradstreet

records, which were furnished by Mrs.

ELEANOR HENRIES, Dun

and Bradstreet, 2070 NW 7th Street, Miami.

MM T-2 is MM 665-C contacted by SA, ROBERT F. FETZNER. 4

MM I-3 is MM 848-C contacted by SA C. GRAHAM HURST. U

MM T-4 is

MM T-5 is

PCI, Springfield Office. 4

OTHER 4

E*

- COVER PAGE -

NN 45964 DocId: 32331173 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-204 (Rev: 3-3-59).

UNITE STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

1 - USA, Miami (Attention!

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

JACK LOUIS MARSHALL

FEB 1 51963

92-106

Title:

CHARLES TOURINE

WILLIAM KENNEY)

Office:

Miam, Florida

Bureau File #:

92-2989

Character: ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

Subject presently residing in Penthouse Apartment 910,

Hampshire Towers Apartments, 5415 Collins Avenue, Miami,

Beach, Florida:

The Hampshire Towers Apartments reportedly

built and operated by MARVIN SCHULMAN.

Informant advised

MARVIN STRAUSE, also known as JOE STRAUSE, is a "stooge"

who may be living in the same apartment with subject.

Subject observed to depart Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami

Beach, during afternoon of 1/31/63 in a Cadillac 2-door hardtop

bearing 1963 Kentucky license 20-077. Informant in San

Juan advised the subject was in San Juan in 1959, but as

far as he knew had not been there since that time. Confidential

source abroad advised ARMAND DIAZ CERAMI, 6437 North Bay

Road, Miami Beach, was

in Paris,

France, 5/29/62 to 6/7/62 and

8/11 - 13/62

and was probably in contact with subject.

Subject interviewed by Detectives, Criminal Intelligence

Squad, Dade County Dept. of Public Safety, Miami, on 1/24/63.

-P -

DETAILS:

RESIDENCE

Subject is presently residing in Penthouse

Apartment

910, Hampshire Towers Apartments, 5415 Collins

Avenue, Miami

Beach, Florida:

APP

AND

OPRIATE AGENCIES

4

ELD OFFICES

ADVISED

ROUTING

SI.T.P

lassiFication

ПАТЕ

18 JEBLIN

CONTXDENTIN

COOTED BY

CMPT FROM CD

This document contains

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

'EGORY!

TION INDEFINITE

s00llaw.

3/294781

92-2989-164

NW 45964 DocId: 32331173 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 92-106

was during 1959 and he did not know the purpose of that visit.

Informant also advised that he cannot recall "TONY BOY" BOIARDO

ever being in San Juan, Puerto Rico.

ASSOCIATES

A confidential source abroad advised on December

22, 1962,

that ARMAND DIAZ, CERAMI, born February 22,

Hackensack,New Jerséy,was registered at the Hotel Plaza

Athenee,

paris,

France,

from May

29 to June 7, 1962, and

again from August it to 13, 1962, and was probably in contact

with the subject during these periods. CERAMI listed his

address as 6437 North. Bay Road, Miami

Florida, and was

in possession of U.S. Passport

1512897, issued June 2, 1959,

at Miami. CERAMI was accompanied by his wife who was

in

possession of U.S. Passport 2469436, issued October 21, 1960,

A(4)

at Miami.

The reservations for CERAMI and his wife had been

arranged by the Fugazy Travel Agency of New York City.

MISCELLANEOUS

On January 29, 1963, Lieutenant L. J. VAN BUSKIRK,

Criminal Intelligence, Dade County Department of Public Safety,

Miami, advised the subject had been interviewed at his apartment

on January 24, 1963, by Detectives of his squad and he furnished

the following information:

TOURINE admitted knowing JOE INDELICATO, MIKE

COPPOLA, JOSEPH NESLINE and a few other boys. He stated that

he was just in town for a vacation and was not working.

TOURINE said he had been approached in reference to some

work, but had refused as he was here on vacation. He also

said he makes at least one trip and sometimes two or three

trips to Europe every year and is more than welcome at all

the tracks in Europe.

deal of his time on the French Riviera. TOURINE stated he

While he is in kurope he spends a greatl

did not own a vehicle or is not using any vehicle at this

time because every time he would buy one, the FBI, Internal

Revenue, or some other agency always managed to find a reasor

to confiscate it.

- 4 -

92-2989-164

HW 45964 DocId: 32331173 Page 6

---

