# docid-32340096

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90154-10125

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 162-1-202-91

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: GALE

TO: DELOACH

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/08/1967

2

GAMBLING ACTIVITIES

MICHAEL MCLANEY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32340096

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017 A

SECRET

Memorandum to Mr. DeLoach

Re: Gambling Activities - Bahamas

him by the Bureau. By airtel dated February 9, 1967, the

Miami Office was instructed only to accept that information

which McLaney volunteers and in the light of his active

participation in the political situation in the Bahamas, his

activities should not be directed in any way by the FBI and

all contacts with him should be handled most discreetly.

McCrary further advised that he interviewed

McLaney on March 1, 1967, and McLaney

a ho had a

hoodlum ties, but said he had a deal "with the little man."

It is to be noted that the name "the little man" is

no one it man

denied he had

commonly used by key racket figures to refer to weyer

Lansky, nationally known racketeer and gambling operations

boss.

McCrary related that McLaney claimed to have spent

over $100,000 in Pindling's Progressive Liberal Party

campaign,

but refused to identify his financial backers.

McLaney also told McCrary that Pindling has promised that

he (McLaney) will be named manager of all gambling in the

Bahamas.

McLaney has also charged McCrary with the

responsibility for attacks made by the United States press

on McLaney due to his hoodlum connections and McLaney

has alleged that he cooperated with the FBI over several

years.

McCrary also stated Departmental Attorney Robert

Peloquin

has given all the information the United States

Government knows about McLaney to Premier Pindling.

Pindling

later referred to this as "double talk" and indicated an

intention to retain McLaney.

[we have also furnished complete background infor-

Jand to the Washington rapresentative of MI-5 Jis)

mation on McLaney to the Commissioner of Police, Bahamas, G/(u.)

ACTION:

Special Agent in Charge, Miami, has advised that

details of interview with McCrary

are being submitted by

airtel.

When this information is received, it will be

analyzed and you will be advised about any

further pertinent

matters in this situation..

SECRET

- 2 -

DocId: 32340096 Page 2

---

