# docid-32149391

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10087-10267

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

89-43-2118

Released

under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

08-14-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. N

DIRECTOR. FBI

DATE: 12/02/1963

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 62-109060-4TH NR 1382

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

07/26/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/22/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53932 DocId: 32149391

Page 1

---

## Page 2

--.

12/3/83

AIRTEL

RBGISTERED

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRSCTOR, FBI

SAC, HEMARK

WALTYS DAVID LONENPELS

(DuRato 100-1110)

Manark 8110 100-28800

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERBIN ISUNCLASSIFIGD

ASBASBINATION OF PRIBIDENI

DATE 8/6/13 BY 9803 Md/sd

JFK

JOHN D. KENNEDY, 12/82/83

DALLAS, TEXAS

(Morax× 1110 62-7080)

Do NOTArK radIograN to BUrPAU dated 11/37/69.

LONENTELS AN A1TAR1I pONTAgo dUo JORROr And As ho UNs bARAlAS

1a the upper losthand cartes.

vas typ ts above.

ADATA TOnATHed thAt the eNTAlOpO MAA A ShITO DARLIN

SyPO ORVALOPO approxiMatOLy d" Vy D" la aiRo and Man acereces

portago duo on 1t.

tha elonday dato of the content.

- DRIPORE (RN)

BALlas (IN10) (11)

TOR/JE»

(10)

89-43-2118

SEARCHED.

SERIALIZED

LiCTILEO MiRO

DEC A - 1903

FBI - DALLAS

T4p5V

NH 53932

DooId: 32149391

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NK 100-22690

NIS 62-3060

GRORGE FLECK, Clers,

Post Office, Mays Landing,

N.J., advised SA BUTTLE on 11/27/63, that he recalls

placing a postage due stamp on a letter to be delivered to

WALTER LOVERTELS on 11/26/63.

He stated that upon arrival

at the Mays Landing Post Office, this envelope bore the

printed etamp of "Postage Du" which would have been put on

the envelope by a clerk dispatching outgoing mail at the

Post Offico in Dallas, Texas.

He said that he paid no

particular attention

to the envelope and does not recall

noticing the return address of "Parkland Hospital, Dallas,

Tenas. **

He added that he did not nake any record of this

postage due letter inasmuch as postal rogulations do not

require

that this be done.

NK 2026-8,

who has furnished reliable information

in the past, was last contacted by SA BUTLE on 12/2/63, and

at this time said he visited the LOVENFELS' residence on

12/1/63 and in conversation with WALISA LOVENIELS, was un

successful in developing any information regarding LOWNrELS

receipt of the correspondence bearing the return address of

"Parkland Hospital, Dallas, Texas".

He said that LOVENFELS

did express himsell as feeling that the assassination of

President KENNEDY was a great tragedy.

LOWENEELS

Infornant stated that during the course of the visit.

was busy reading and judging poetry which had been

mailed to him by individuals from all ever the US.

He said

that the name "Markhan Award" is not familiar to him, but

he woald assume that it probably had some connection with

LOWINTELS judging of poetry sent to him through the mail.

Informant remarked that on several, occasions when

LOVEELS left his study to care for his wife,

LILLIAN LOvENFELd,

a semi-invalid, he had an opportunity to make

& cursory search

for the envelope bearing the return address "Parkland Hospital,

Dallas, Texas", but was also unsuccesstul in this effort.

A high confidential source survey has been conducted

and does not appear feasible at this time due to the fact that

LOVENFELS' wile is an invalid and does not leave.

Newark will remain alert for any opportunity to

develop a highly confidential source.

NW 53932 DooId:32149391 Page 3

---

## Page 4

12/8/83

AIBTEL

REGISTEZED

TO:

TROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, HEMARK

WALTAR DAVID LONEHPELS

BM - C

(8U111O 10Q1110)

(Henark 1110 100-22890)

ABBAUSINATION OF FRIGIDENT

OHH I. IHHOX, 11/82/88

Dalias,

TISAB

(Newark 1110 82-9030)

BO NOWATK FAdIOgIAN tO BUrDaU datad 11/87/08.

ALI. INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINA.

UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 8/4/S3 BY I803nda/ge

JAK

don Jersey,

about 11:00 a.=. on 11/20/83, ha personally delivered to YANtaR

LONENIE, an ALTaRil pontago duo lorter and as ho vas basalas

"tho lottor to LonElILs, he firat notload that the onvelope boro

the printed retura addrons, "Parkland Hospital, Dallas, Tessay"

In the uppor lofthand corner. No statod that the voral

'PArkIand HOSpItal" Moro eronsed off and a saRo, unrecalled

"as typo 1n above.

MADARA renathod thet the envolopo uns a ubito business

typo envelopo approximatoly 4" by "" in nina and ves addreased

to malter Loser?als, Harkhen ADArd, Hays LAndlag, Mon jerray".

Ho said that tha anvolopo mas sorohat bully and had olght canto

postago due on 11. No then renarked In BORDOStION MItA the

"Harkhan Award" that LONINVELS connented that he Una JudgInE

some sort of a contest and that the lotter had arrived alter

the closing dato of the cantost.

MADABA added tbAS DRIAT tO

11/88/83, he had neen LONEMBLS at h1s, LONSHYXIS", poaldence

on Saturday, 11/83/83.

SEARCHED

6 - BUTORU (BN)

SERIALIZED ARO FILED RAGES

2) Dallas (Inío (

DEC 1 - 1953

4• Newark

FBI - DALLAS

TGB/JtM

(20)

89-43-2118

NW 53932 DocId: 32149391 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NK 100-22690

NK 62-3060

GEORGE FLECK, Clerk, Post office,

Mays Landing,

advised SA BUTTLE on 11/27/63, that he recalls

placing a postare due stamp on a letter to be delivered to

WALTER LOVENTELS on 11/26/63. He stated that upon arrival

at the Mays Landing Post Office, this envelope bore the

printed stamp of "Postage Due" which would have been put on

the envelope by a clerk dispatching outgoing mail at the

Post Office in Dallas,

texas.

He said that he paid-no

particular attention to the envelope and does not recall

noticing the return address of "Parkland Hospital, Dallas,

Texas."

He added that he did not make any record

of this

postage due letter inasmuch as postal regulations do not

require that this be done.

NK 2026-S, who has furnished reliable information

in the past,

was last contacted by SA BUTTLE on 12/2/63, and

at this time said he visited the LOWENFELS' residence on

12/1/63 and in conversation with WALTER LOWENTELS, was un-

successful in developing any information regarding LOWENFELS

receipt of the correspondence bearing the return address of

"Parkland Hospital, Dallas,

He said that LOWENIELS

did express himself as feeling that the assassination of

President KENNEDY was a great tragedy.

Infornant stated that during

the course of the visit,

LOWINgELS was busy reading and judging poetry which had been

mailed to him by individuals from all over the us.

He said

that the nane "Markham Award" is not familiar to him, but

he would assume that it probably had some connection with

LOWENTELS judging of poetry sent to him through the mail.

Informant remarked that on several

occasions when

LOVENTELS left his study to care for his wife, LILLIAN LOVENTELS,

a semi-invalid, he had an opportunity to make

a cursory search

for the envelope bearing the return address "Parkland Hospital,

Dallas, Texas", but was also unsuccessful in this effort.

A high confidential source survey

has been conducted

and does not appear feasible at this time due to the fact that

LOWENIELS' wife is an invalid and does not leave.

Newark will remain alert for any opportunity to

develop a highly confidential source.

2

NW 53932 DocId: 32149391 Page 5

---

