# docid-32316601

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10350-10043

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 64-200-211-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: HQ

TO : DOMR

TITLE:

DATE: 06/21/1965

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32316601

Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

Di

142010

1

1

Mr. G.C. Mogge

- MI. A. C. Mejer

1 - Mr. W.A. Aull

6/21/65

Legat, Santo Domingo

"TION

I pirector, FBI (105-10391

CLA.":

OTIFERWISE

INPARTI

DONNALL

4-11-45

#DOCTOR HUCO TOLENTINO DIFF

NO IS DONE ICAN REPUBLIC

Classified by 5elt SLD|ude

Declassity/on: DADR Jitt

WEWER

The following is a summary of pertinent inforuation

contained in Bufiles concerning the captioned individual:

CIA HAS NO OBDECTION TO

DECLASSICA SION AND/OR

RELEASE OF GIALIS ORMATION:

An Inguiry submitted by the Iunigration and Naturaliza-

tion Service on December 21, 1961, Indicated that subject was

born Augunt 28, 1929, in Cuidad Trujillo, Dominican Republic.

At that time he gave his address as 171 West 71st Street

Apartment, 8=B, New York City, and indicated that his address

Prior to the one set out above was 11 Jonas E, Salk, Cuidad Irujillo,

Dominican Republie. Subject's father was identified as

IN

Vicente Tolentino and his mother as Catherine Dipp. The inquiry

from the Immigration and Naturalization Service further Indicated

that subject was adnitted to the United States on August 25, 1961,

at New York as a visitor and that he was alleged to be a member

of the Executiva Connittee of the Frente Unido Dominicano (FUD)

of New York.

On March 8, 1961, Tobias Emilio Cabral Mejia, 536

West 136th Street, New York City, a self-admitted member of

the Central Executive Conmittee of the Moviniento de Liberacion

Dominicano (MD), advised that an organization known as the

Buropean Committee, became affiltated with the MD during the

latter part of 1960. He indicated the headquarters of the

organization was considered to be Paris, France, although it

had no officlal office. He also indicated that the reason

Paris, Prance, was considered the leadquarters was that the

majority of members of the European Committee resided in that

area, particularly Hugo Tolentino. Cabral also advised that

Tolentino had, in the recent past, moved to London where he

was employed in some capacity at the University of Londen.

(14)

DUFLICATE

64-200-211

1220

(105-45297)

2 - New York

.: (105-51176)

NOT RECORDED

29 JUN 23 1965

19

- 64-200-211 - C. P. Dominican Republic

58 JUL

Foredus -iaison Unit (Route through for review) —

Dor

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

1614-2017.

1

Mr. G.C. Monre

1

• Mr. A.C. Mejer

1

- ME. W.A. AUL

6/21/65

Legat, Santo Domingo

FioN

Nippirector, FBI (105-10307)

CLA.:

OTHERWISE

92

411-45

DOCTOR HUGO TOLENTINO DIFP

A 2D IS - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

Classified by 56d6 SLD/ade

EASE INSPARTI

TOTAL DENTAL

Declassity/on: DADR fit

The following is a summary of pertinent information

"centained in Buffles concerning the captioned individual:

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INCORMATION

An inquiry submitted by the Immigration and Naturalisa-

tion Service on December 21, 1961, Indieated that subject was

Sor sure in Guidad Trujillo, Dominican Republic-

At that time he gave his address as 171 West 71st Street

Apartment 8-B, New York City, and indicated that his address

prior to the one set out above was 11 Jonas E. Salk, Cuidad Trujillo,

Dominican Republic. Subject's father was identified as

Vicente Tolentino and his mother as Catherine Dipp.

The inquiry

from the Insigration and Naturalization Service further indicated

that subject, was admitted to the United States on August 25, 1961,

at New York as a visitor and that he was alleged to be a member

of the Executive Comittee of the Frente Unide Dominicano (FUD)

of New York

58

On March 8, 1961, Toblas Emilio Cabral Mejia, 536

West 136th Street, New York City, a self-admitted member of

the Central Executive Counittee of the Movimiento de Liberacion

Dominicano (MLD), advised that an organization known as the

Suropean Connittee becane affiliated with the MD during the

nan tho

latter pest of 1960.

He indicated the headquarters of the

organization was considered to be Paris, France, although it

had. no offieial office.

He also indicated that the reason

Paris. France, was considered the leadquarters was that the

majority of members of the European Comittee resided in that

area, particularly Hugo Tolentino. Cabral also advised that

Tolentino had. in the recent past, noved to London where he

was employed in some capacity at the University of Londen.

YAA: ESPeraore

(14)

2 - MEO

(105-45297)

DEPLONE:

64-200-211

2

- New York

• (105-51176)

NOT RECORDED

29 JUN 23 1965

64-200-211 - C. P. Dominican Republic

UL

forets laison Unit (Route through for review)-

ORIGINAL FILED IN

6601

Page- 3.

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE:* 11-17-2017

Letter to Legat,

Santo Boningo

NS:

DOCTOR HUGO TOLENTINO DIPP

105-10397

Informatton Furnished by CIA dated August 3, 1968,

(protect identity and classify "Secret") in September, 1961,

disclosod: that

• Hugo Tolentino, London leader of the lich of

June Demintean Liberation Movement (APCJ) • was in London on

a visit from Parts and that he planned to vialt New Joel for

discussion

alfairs relating to the Dovinicen Republie with

MUD members.

Informtion obtained by the Legal Attache, Pazis,

In January, 1962, (Direction De La Surveillance Du Territolze)

aaron hat alast susion is tames on spotives tory

bensing a spocial passport and that he onrolled in the

of law In Parls and continued his stulles by moans of e French

Government scholarshiy.

Subject left France foz London on

Octobee

: 2, 1960, and no infornation has

come to legat's source

regarding the subject since that time.

On February L, 1962, Tobias Enillo Cabral Mejie,

536 West 136th Street, New Tock CIty, a member of the Central

Brecutive Connietee of the M.D, advised that Hugo Tolentino

Dipp had returned to the Dominican Republic and that he had

left New York. around the Eirst part of January, 1962. In

Febrary, 3962, Ramon Ibert (protect identity, secretary

of the 14th of

June Nevenant, San Juan, Puerto Rice, advised

that Tolentino had been deported from the Domintean Republte,

On Tebruary 26,

1962, the Immigration and Naturalization

Service at Miand, Flozida, advised that seven Individuals.

including the subject, left Miant for New York City on that

date and that arrangements had been made for the seven to Leave

New

York for

France on British Overseas Always Corporation

(BOAC) 221ght 510•

Intornation furnished by CIA in June, 1964,, Indicated

that Rolando Javier Breton, e nomber of the Comunist Farty of

the Dominican Republic, vas released from prison on ball on

5/6/64, and.

that subject was one of the contributors to his

ball bond of $275.

SCAPET

64-200- 2l6-Al:: 10425

DocId: 32316601

Page 4

---

