# docid-32340102

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90154-10131

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 162-1-202-222

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/29/1968

2

GAMBLING ACTIVITIES

MICHAEL MCLANEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32340102

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Refords Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 92-1242

in Las Vegas, because he cut into their take in Las Vegas

gambling.

This source said that it was found HOWARD HUGHES

and too t

was too hard to get to and too important and that nothing

will be done to HUGHES.

Source the mentioned to MCLANEY that the "racket

element" was dissatisfied with the strict controls in gambl

ing in the Bahamas, and they believe Premier LYNDEN O.

PINDLING was responsible for the action taken against the

"racket element".

This source told MCLANEY that if an

"accident" occurred to PINDLING, it would take the pressure

off gambling in the Bahamas.

MCLANEY said that he has furnished this information

regarding Premier PINDLING tO JAMES SHEPARD, a Bahamian

Representative, a former Assistant Premier who is very close

O PINDLING, and to ARTHUR A• FOULKES, MiniSter of Aviatior

ind second in command, as well as a close friend of PINDLING

who will furnish same

to the Premier.

Due to the potential urgency of the matter, the

information concerning PINDLING was telephonically furnished

on 5/29/68 to Assistant Commissioner STANLEY R. MOIR,

Bahamas Police Force, Nassau.

It is to be noted McLANEY said Premier PINDLING

went on a

world tour for 3 or 4 weeks, and that JAMES SHEPARD

is one of the individuals with PINDLING.

The Las Vegas Office, UACB, should furnish enclosed

information concerning HOWARD HUGHES

to local police authorities.

2.

DocId: 32340102 Page 2

---

