# docid-32294083

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note) ..

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10212-10359

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-401762-2ND NR 45

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

[Restricted]

DATE: 10/11/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

4

Redact

09/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32294083

Page 1

26

---

## Page 2

sIe ed under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

1

- Bland

tes.

Anderson

(NT) 200-408305

Sachg2

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

ARNDEN LO UNCLASSIFIED

EXCENT NADAS SHOWN

OTHEREISE

Dates

70%

Drome

Sibjeota

October Il 1962

Inspector George Me

Washington, Do Ge

John Igar Bocuer, Director

JACK CONAN

INZURITAE SACURITY - CATADA

10/1/94

M

Reference is made to previous communicatons in

this master the lost of which was e menorandus dobed Zugwas 9s

2962,

at New York, New Forke

Enclosed for your information lee memorandum dated

September 26, 1962,

ad Buffalos

New Fort, which sets forth

information concering Bernard A Frank,

regiotered uner

of the vehtole bearing New Torl State Ilcense lar 5517, which

vehiole une observed

in Coven a driveway, 16)

In view of che lach of a apecifie dave

in thie

masser no urcher erfort is beine modelto spect ically deterinc

whether Berore Frank or come other individual was dobuclly

in posseseton of tropilo vehicle at

the time to was observed

in Cowans driveuoyaS le te moded.

houever; & physioal

descriptton o Trant la sed Jorth in the enclosed memorandune

In the event you one in possesston of or recetue

any cecitrones infornasion concering shes maciers

De

"appreciated if same was furnished this Bureau. 'to

NOT RACORDAD

Enclosure

T7 OCt 1: 6909

1 - Legat,

Obtaiva (100-801) Inclosures - 2 (BUlet. 9/28/62 with

2- Buffalo (105-3563)

enclosed letterhead memorandum)

2 - New York (105-7304)

- Foreign Liaison Unlt

100-401762 (Richard Cyri

- 100-339235002

DUPLICATE MELLS

A SAES NET YORK, BUFFADO, AND LEGAI ,

OTTAWA

L2.A87612

(23)

SECRED

PAGE 2

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

DocId: 32294083 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Revors Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Apte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

6R0?

Royal canation sounted Police (3)

Inspector George He Ashley

NOTE TO SAGE NOW YORK. /BUFFALO, AND LEGATE OTTAWA:

No additional gotive investigation desired concerning

this motter at this time.

In view of original allegations

nowever,

alert established sources for ony information indiceting

assoctation between Bernard and Richard Frank as well as trovel

the part of Bernora Frank to Porinto,

information receiven thould be rumtched hirees in lattere

memorandun form with appropriate recommendations for further

action.

NONE:

Toronto, Concday

sometime in early 1962.

in conada and reportedly associate. of cop-ranking or leavers

and has jacuubased passage of knoum communisto to burope.

investigation aisoloses Bernard FrankCregiatered ouner of above

Lewyer asiast sicinity of Rochester,

New Yorks emploved as

A brother, Richerd Franky is Security

Inder subject of New York Office, however,

no association

developed between Bernard and Richard Frank and no information

developed indicating Bernord Frank Inuolved in subversive acti

vities.

"TECREM

100-4067625

DocId: 32294083

Page 3

---

