# docid-32140935

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification For'..

ecur.

JIGUILUI

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10063-10022

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-109060-2793

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: GEMBERLING, ROBERT P.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/30/1964

297

JFK, SUSPECTS, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/07/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

REPORT, TABLE OF CONTENTS ON PAGES i-v, INDEX ON PAGES 261-273, INC EXHIBITS

D- 127, D-98, D-99, ENVELOPE

DodId: 32140935

Page 1

25

---

## Page 2

Released

under

the John F. Kennedy Aspassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 üse 21U7

Hotel-

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

Beport ТОҐ'..

{D-263 (5-12-55)

SECRET

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting 01500

DALLAS

Otton od Origta

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY,

NOVEMBER 22, 1963, DALLAS, TEXAS

PRIATE AGENCIES

AN

CATECES

FING

GI

REFERENCE A DAS

2/9/12 €

Dato

3/30/64

Intestigativa Parlod

11/22/63-3/26/64

Boport mado by

SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING

CHARACTER OF CASE

Sipod !.

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION

CONCERNING

all opmal

-P-

Report of SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING, 12/18/63, at Dallas.

ALE INFORMATION CONTAINEI

NEARIN IS UACLASSIFIED

I WEERE SHOWN

ENCLOSURES: TO THE BUREAUs

coacted by 2040

LARY

xempt fren

7/5127

late di Declassification

Enclosed herewith and attached to appropriate copies of

this report for the Bureau are three photographs of Exhibits D-98,

D-99 and D-127.

8-22-98

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR

DECLASSIFY ON:

Two copies of these exhibits are listed as enclosures

for the President's Commission in the body of this report with

those coptes being attached to the copies of the report that gea

I designated as President's commiesion copter.

spies noted CE

is destroyed

(Ag129)

L

Approved PriS

Special Açant

Coples

nada: 141744

- le chape

10 - Bureau

(62-109060)

(Enc. 9) (RM)

73:

Do not

rita ta spoons belo

2793 REC ZE

1

- New Orleans

(89-69)

(Info.)

.-

San Antonio (89-67)

(Info.)

-

Dallas

89-43

- COPIES DESTROYE

17 MAR 77 1964

1 1 7 1073

H/83.

ST- T12

lassified by 9803kd

Declassify

1954

SECRET

03210.3/12161

FBI - Thin roport la looned to you by the Val, end salther it nor its conionte aro to bo distribut

DocId: 32140935

Page 2

---

## Page 3

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassiation Recörds COllection Act of 1992 (11 USC 21077.,

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

DI 89-43

In this regard the Bureau may desire to remove the

enclosure page from those copies of this report that are

disseminated to agencies other than the President's Comnission.

LEADS :

All leads in this case have been set forth by tele-

type or airtel and are not being restated herein.

NEW ORLEANS AND SAN ANTONIO: (INFORMATION)

One copy of this report is being furnished each of the

New Orleans and San Antonio Offices for information in view of

the extensive investigation conducted in those Divisions.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

LEONARD SHAFER, Director of Convention Sales, Dunes

Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada, mentioned on page 19 of instant

report, often utilizes the telephone in the coffee shop of the

Dunes Hotel for business calls. He has, for the past approxi-

mately six years, been a symbol informant of the Las Vegas

Office.

LEONARD SHAFER fits the description set forth in the

handwritten, anonymous letter which was sent to ED MONTGOMERY

in San Francisco.

The confidential source abroad referred to on page 20

of instant report is Chief Inspector BILNHILL, Special Branch,

New Scotland Yard, who furnished the information on a strictly

confidential basis.

The BOB JOINER referred to by GLOVER BEE BELLAH on

page 45 of instant report is identical with BOBBY SAVELLE JOINER,

President of the Indignant white Citizens Council, Grand Prairie,

Texas (Dallas file 157-269). JOINER was arrested by the Dallas

Police Department while picketing at the Trade Mart, Dallas,

-B -

COVER PAGE

SECREN

u)

DocId: 32140935

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Keriedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

DI 89-43

The confidential sources referred to on page 188 of

instant report are anonymous sources of the Detroit office.

The confidential source

abroad referred to on page 197

of instant report 18 DI. GUENTHER WOLLAU, Chief of the Left Wing

Radicalism Division of the Bundesant fuer verfassungschutz No Lourlity

(BFV-West German Federal Agency for tha

named and identified in communications which might become

available to the public.

1 BRACKETS ARE CLASSIFIED PER

• BONN EC DATED 1-28-98

The confidential source abroad referred to on page

197A 1s Legat, Bonn, Germany •

The source who requested hia identity be protected.

referred to on page 207 of instant report, is Reverend THOMAS

ARMSTRONG, a Negro in Jackson, Mississippi.

In connection with this report it should be borne in

mind

1 that the Dallas Office has a separate case in connection

with

the shooting of LEE HARVEY OSWALD, Captioned "JACK I: RUBY,

aka.; LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka. (Deceased) • VICTIM; CR", Dallas

file

• 44-1639, Bureau file 44-24016.

It is also pointed out that the Dallas Office has a

separate case captioned "LES HARVEY OSWALD, aka.; INTERNAi

SECURITY - RUSSIA & CURA"

• Dallas file 100-10461, Bureau file

10582555. Numerons communications have been received bearing

the assassination caption (instant casel which contain infor-

mation concerning OSWALD and/or his connection with the

assassination

such communications are being filed and re-

ported in the case bearing the OSwAlD caption. For the most

part, miscellaneous allegations bearing on

"the ascassination are

reported in instant case and all others in the LEE HARVEY OSWALD

All Information pertaining to itens of evidence in con-

nection with the assassimation related to OSWALD in any way are

being reported under the LEE HARVEY OSwALD caption.

The overlap in the perlod of this report with that of

previous reports in this matter was occasioned by the fact that

material with respect to certain allegations was withheld until

such time as the complete resolving of the particular allegation

could be included in one report. The contents of this report

= D =

COVER PACE

SECRET

DocId: 32140935

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 Til USC 2100

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREO

DI 89-43

abroad referred to on page 197

Radicalism Division of the Bundesamt Euer-Verrassungschutz Nolicult

(BFV-West

German Federal Agency for tha Protection of the consti-

tution) SIt is the desire of the BEV that its officials not be

named and identified in communications which might become

available to the public.

The source who requested his identity be protected,

referred to on page 207 of instant report, is Reverend THOMAS

RMSTRONG, a NegIO in Jackson, Mississippi.

In connection with this

report it should be borne in

mind

that the Dallas Office has a

separate case in connection

with the shooting of LEE HARVEY OSWAID, captioned "JACK I, RUBY,

aka.; LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka. (Deceased) - VICTIM; CR", Dallas

file 44-1639, Bureau file 44-24016.

It is also pointed put that the Dallas Office has a

separate case captioned "LEE/HARVEY OSWALD, aka.; INTERNAL

SECURITY - RUSSIA - CUBA", Dallas file 100-10461, Bureau File

105-82555. Numerous communications have been received bearing

the assassination caption /(instant case) which contain infor-

mation concerning OSWALD and/or his connection with the

assassination and such communications are being filed and re-

ported in the case bearing the OSWALD caption. For the most

part, miscellaneous allegations bearing on the assassination are

reported in instant case and all others in the LE HARVEY OSWALD

case. All information pertaining to items of evidence in con-

nection with the assassination related to OSWALD in any way are

being reported under the LEE HARVEY OSWALD caption.

The overlap in the period of this report with that of

previous reports in this matter was occasioned by the fact that

naterial with respect to certain allegations was withheld unti

such time as the

complete resolving of the particular allegatior

could be included in one report. The contents of this report

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32140935

Page 5

---

