# docid-32329143

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90085-10024

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-75147-12-19

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/15/1946

PAGES :

26

SUBJECTS :

ALBERT MEADOWS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : SURVEY

v9.1

DocId: 32329143

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

is clean and straight forward and cannot be bought for any price;

although he allows himself to be surrounded by inefficient personnel

in whom he has the utnost confidence.

These men are in responsible

positions within the department. CHARLES SMITH heads up the Vice

Squad and has made plenty of money on payoffs from gambling and

prostitution.

SWITH and his partner PINKERT make regular raids

twice weekly on gambling games in the above mentioned hotels. He

has allowed them to operate for years. He is paid off regularly by

the operators.

Very recently, Ex-Chief of Police K. N. HOWARD returned from the

- service and demanded his old job as Chier back. HOWARD was Chief of

Police from 1938 until he went into the service in 1942, at which time

gambling was wide open in It. Worth. Strong pressure groups headed by

the Ministerial Association and Civic Clubs came forward and appealed

to the City council in behalf of Chief DYSART. As a result Chief

DYSARI won out and HOWARD came back into the Department 'as a Captain,

replacing Captain HOWERTON, who was shifted to Traffic and Police

Schools.

of Detectives, is a

Informant advised that Captain ANDY FORMEr the Policy and numbers

brother-in-law of ALBirt dAViS, who controls

racket in It. Worth.

DAVIS is a big time gambler. It is generally

known in the Departnent that BERT WAKEFIELD controls gambling in

the Blackstone and Texas Hotels. WAKEFTILD is assisted by an

individual by name of STONEY, a former It. Worth Pimp.

There are no organized gangs in Ft. Worth and no organized connections

from outside the city of Ft. Worth.

Informant said prostitution is practiced in all leading hotels.

Though prostitutes are not allowed to stay at the Blackstone, Worth

or Texas Hotels. Prostitutes stay at smaller hotels andreceive

their calls from the porters of the above mentioned larger hotels.

Known prostitutes appear monthly at the city clinic for inspection.

They either appear voluntarily or they are picked up and given an

examination.

Confidential Informant DIS 944 advised that he is the owner and

proprietor of the Maverick and Imperial H tels and operates gambling

games in both hotels.

The game at the Maverick is operated by the

JOHNSON.

The game is directed at the Imperial by L. Y. PERKINS.

He stated that his places have been raided regularly twice a month for

past few months and the house always pays the fine. Informant stated

that the team of SMITH & PINKERT, Vice Squad, had been broken up and

that SMITH had been demoted to a motorcycle Officer. In the past he

- 15 -

DocId: 32329143 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

J.

HAS had to.pay, off to SMITH on many occasions.. He explained that

he operated a dice and card game at both houses.

The house covers

all bids up to $100. He further related that the DIANE hotel aLso

operates a gambling

game under the operation of individuals known

as FLEMING AND RICHARDS. Gambling conducted at the Jefferson

hotel is operated by JACK ASHLEY. Informant advised that BUDDY

LUPER and CLARENCE LUPER operated gambling games at the Court Hotel

in room 214. HOWARD LEE and BILlY

JORDAN are operators of the game.

It was ascertained that the gambling game in the Maverick hotel is

located in room 202 and in room 6 at the Imperial Hotel.

Policy

rackets in Ft. Worth are controled by AUBERI DAVIS. Siot machines

are largely under the control of BENNIE MCDONALD, Lone Star Amusement

Company•

Ganbling in the Stockyards Hotel is generally conducted

on the second floor and the operator of this game is reported to be

SAM MTTCHELL.

In addition to the above mentioned slot machines

in Tarrant County the additional individuals are known to operate

known machine devices in this area. BUSTER & TONY LUCIANO; BENNIE

MCDONALD; and WALTER THANNISH.

NOTORIOUS TYPES AND PLACES OF AMUSEMENT

Confidential Informant DLS 951 advised that prostitution is practiced

in the following It. Worth hotels:

LITTLE HOTEL, 1610 Main Street, operated by BENNIE MOORE, number of

girls, 6 to 8.

REGAL HOTEL, 1013% Main Street, operated by GERTRUDE HOLDEN, number of

girls, 5.

ROSE HOTEL, 1012 Main Street, operated by BENNIE MOORE & HOLLIS

(RED) HOLIDAY, number of girls, 6.

TOURIST HOTEL, 308 Main Street, operated by DOLOR™S SMITH, number of

girls, 6.

TRINITY HOTEL, 1403 Main Street, Management has no connection with

prostitution activities, number of girls, 4

'CORINNE HOTEL, 1403$ Main Street, operated by BESSIE & JACK FUSTON,

3 to 4 girls.

BEES HOTEL, 1211 Calhoun Street, operated by BEATRICE PATTERSON, 4;

girls.

YALE HOTEL, 111 E. 10th Street, operated by CHARLES (CHARLEY) FOOSHRI,

6 girls.

- 16

DocId:32329143 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hobe).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MAJESTIC HOTEL, 1305A Main Street, management not connected with

prostitution activities, 3 girls.

JACKSBORO COURTS, Jacksboro Highway, operated by JACK PURSER, keeps

7 to ö girls.: ORA THOMAS is presently practicing prostitution at

these courts and K. C. (JIGGS) HARRIS is her pimp.:

Two cab drivers,

names unknown, also are acting as pimps for girls located at Jacksboro

Courtse

DEL RIO LODGE, Jacksboro Highway, operated by FOREST JOHNSON, 7 girls.

VALLEY VIEW COURTS, Mansfield Highway, operated by JACK PADGETT, 4

to 5 girls.

MILNER HOTEL, 911 Main Street, management has no connection with

prostitution

activities, 4 to 5 girls. They reside at this hotel all

time and hustle at the Texas, Blackstone and Westbrook, receiving

their calls from bell boys.

Informant said that she herself keeps 5 girls. They recèive their

calls from the bell boys located at the Texas, Worth, Black#tone and

Westbrook Hotels.

Informant was interrogated as to which bell boys.

She explained that all of the bell boys employed at the above hotels

secure dates for her girls.

She said that the bell boys at the

Texas hotel were only paid $1 per day and they had to depend on tips

for their earnings., Informant. said that the bell boys become

2 or an a dea

acquainted with the girls and will 'call for certain ones.

She said

all her girls presently are local ft. Worth girls. She charges

She explained that her girls have only a few dates at her hotel but

for the most part serve the larger hotels. Informant says she does

not allow pimps to stay at her hotel or allow any of her girls to

use pimps.

In discussing the above hotels, informant said that BENNIE MOORE allows

pimps to work for his girls at the LITTlE and ROSE hotels and does -

furnish some girls to the above listed larger hotels. The REGAL, and

TRINITY are seldom called on by the bell boys of the larger hotels

for girls.

They operate more or less independently.

The rest of the

above listed small hotels furnish girls to the Texas, Blackstone,

Westbrook and Worth, with the exception of the BEES HOTEL.

hotel caters to the lower class of whites and will allow wexicans

to come in for dates with girls.

Informant advised she has triedtto keep the higher type of prostitutes

= 17-

DocId: 32329143

Page

4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act, of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

V..

in her hotel.

She explained that 4 of her 5 girls will not work

• for less than $20 an hour and get as high-as

$50 and $100 for over-

night.

She said her girls are given an examination at the City

Health Clinic every Monday morning

She'has been operating at this

location for more than two years.

Informant states she practiced

prostitution from 1939 to 1944 but no longer practices:

GENERAL CRIME CONDITIONS IN WICHITA FALLS, TEXAS AREA:

A stage Grand Jury investigation at Wichita Falls, Texas has

condemned the practice of la number of Police Öfficers loaning

VI..

be stopped immediately.

The Grand Jury further went on record to

call the attention of Folice Administration to the reported failure

to administer first aid to injured prisoners brought to the City

jail.

An agent of this Fiéld Division was recently in the Wichita Falls

Police Department at which time a negro came into the Department

and talk to Captain BOOHiR, advising him that he had some money to

give to L. G. Cook, a member of the Police Department. Captain

BOOHER apparently did not approve of this and advised the negro

that he was not collecting any money for anyone and that if he

wanted to give the money to Mr. COOK he would have to do so himself.

It was further noted by this office that COOK has been mentioned,

along with Detective WILDMON, as being susceptible to bribery

and to the acceptance of gratuities from offenders of petty laws.

GENHRAL CRIME CONDITIONS IN LUBBOCK, THAS AREA

A. ORGANIZED GANGS

As near as it can be ascertained, there are no organized criminal

gangs presently operating in the lubbock District.

D.

POLICE EFFICIENCY

The Iubbock Police Department, in addition to having FBINA graduates

DON REEDER, Chief of Police,

and COLEMAN MABRAY, Assistant Chief of

Police, have PAT DAVIDSON, a Detective under Assistant Chief of Police

MABRAY, a recent graduate of the National Academy. The Identification

Section and Detective Division of this Department is rapidly increasing

its popularity and efficiency.

- 18 -

DocId: 32329143 Page 5

---

## Page 6

, Releaset wer

the Toln F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2197 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

VII.

operation in Lubbock, the Colonial, Knapp, and Logan Hotels have

encouraged prostitution, and at the present time there is very

little activity in the prosecution of such prostitution inasmuch

as police officials, primarily COLEMAN WABRAY, Assistant Chief of

Police,

are compiling the necessary information which will be

climaxed by an intensive drive on these three hotels, which will

effect their being closed. This information is of a confidential

nature at the present time, and the necessary details to close

these places are being

worked out by the police officers and

District Attorney BURTON S. BURKES.

The other hotels where

prostitution is known to be going on on a smaller scale are at

Star, Texas, and Commercial Hotels.

The Star and Texas Hotels

are presently operated by FRED HALt, who has been a valuable

source of information, and efforts will be made in the near-future

to develop him as a confidential informant in connection with

prostitution and White Slave Traffic Act Violations.

GENERAL. CRIME CONDITIONS IN THE TYLER,

TEXAS AREA

A. ORGANIZED GANGS

There are. no organized gangs operating in the Tyler Area.

B. INDIVIDUAL RACKETEERS AND MOBSTERS

Violation of laws primarily committed in this area constitute an

evasion of liquor laws inasmuch as the Tyler Area is in Dry territory.

The following individuals are considered by local law enforcement

officers as the outstanding law offenders in this area, in near

Palestine, Texas:

IACY ADAMS, Adams Drug Store.

'AUBREY NCNAIIAN, Cash Drug Store.

store de.

SCARBROUGH MILIS "SUG" GAINES, Tennessee and Lacey Streets.

FOWLER BECKHAM, Tennessee and Lacey Streets.

PAT MORRIS, W. Oak Street.

ADAM CONE, Main and Tennessee Avenue.

^ 'BRUCE AUSTIN, Main and Tennessee Avenue.

TOTTS DEAN, Filling Station, Tennessee and Main Streets.

BOOTS MCFARLAND, Tennessee and Main Streets.

IVY LEE MORRIS, Ex-Convict from Leavenworth, Kansas, lenn. & Main Sts.,

MARSHALL MORRIS, Cash Drug Store.

The following are negroes, Palestine, Texas:

WILT: SMITH, 200 Block, I. Dallas Street.

ELIARD SMITH, E. Dallas Street.

- 20 -

DocId: 32329143

Page 6

---

