# docid-32295236

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10215-10012

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 45-10801-2ND NR 3

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/07/1968

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT:

GRANWOOD, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

01/06/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 45701 DocId: 32295236 Page 1

---

## Page 2

NIT 105-2855

MIAMI EACH WEEK.

MIAMI SOURCE ONE IS

I VICE

PRESIDENT, MIAMI RADIO STATION WAB. SOURCE TWO IS WILLIAM

KILLIAN, WESTERN UNION. SOURCE IHPEE IS RICARDO MORALES

NAVARRETE.

WFO. VACB, CONTACI APPROPRIATE OFFICIALS OF

JAPANESE, MEXICAN, SPANISH, AND BRITISH EMBASSIES FOR DETAILS

CONCERNING ANY THREATS RECEIVED FROM CUBAN POWER AND FURNISH

TO FBI LAB ANY LETTERS SUITABLE FOR LATENT FINGERPRINT AND

TYPEWRITING EXAMINATION.

MIAMI WILL BY SUBPOENA OBTAIN ORIGINALS OF MESSAGES

DELIVERED TO WESTERN UNION BY CUBAN POWER AND EXHIBIT PHOTOS

OF MEMBERS OF MIRR

WILL DISCUSS EXTORTION ASPECTS OF THIS MATTER WITH

USA •

WILL SUBMIT CABLEGRAMS AND LETTERS TO FBI LAB

FOR ELAMINATION, AND CONDUCI FURTHER LOGICAL INVESTIGATION

TO OBTAIN EVIDENCE THIS MATTER •

_PARATE CHS INVESTIGATIONS PRESENTLY UNDERWAY RE

COMBINGS OF THREE VESSELS DESCRIBED IN CAPTION THIS TELETYPE:

#IRMAIL COPIES TO HOUSTON, MOBILE AND TAMPA •

CUCOP .

A: 241

6/8/68

sente, CIA, sellinit

END

CK

EXR R R ELAY

shitosen.

FBI WASH DE in. Concan +700.

Tittee

NW 45701 DocId: 32295236

Page 2

OTHER 4

---

