# docid-32306397

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10290-10037

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR! FBI

FROM:

FITZGERALD. J. M.

TO: BRENNAN. D. J.

TITLE: 134-12019-3

DATE: 06/20/1963

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT_ TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

07/02/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

NW 53025

DocId: 32306397

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1 - Mr.

Nases

June

SAC, Miami

REGIST

Director;

25, 1963

12.019-3

10-8-94

samar/jas

CIA MAS NO OBJECTION TO

Claschied by

DECLASS FAROY AND/ORLOUIS BALBUENA CALAABILLA

RELEASE MCA MORMARONE B

INFORKATE

• CUBA

Declassy on: lau

4 TER

MY ТS: LOANINT KP 5-20-98

5C0988 5-30-98 JFK)

ALL IRFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UP

CLASSIFIED EXCEPT

Letter June 1, 150s.

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE. S

On June 17;

1963,

Georgo Delille of Office or

Naval Intelligenco (ONI) Headquarters nade available the

filos which appeared to portain to captioned individual.

DeMillo

enphasized that the OVI files are classified "Socret" and the

forner relationship between ONI and the subject is considered

sensitivo and has had only vory linited distribution.

Dellille added ONI had used subject as an intelligence source

for a number of years but discontinued contact with hin about

November, 1961g

because he was using his position on the

Guantanano Bay

Naval Base for his oun porsonal purposes.

About

that sane time

the Navy assisted him in coning to the U. S.

*(U)

Dollille sald thnt no further contact has been mintained

with the subjeet by the Navy since his arrival in the u.s. but

It is belleved that the CIA may have had some contact with hin.

Dollille said that the lavy does not know anything about the prosent

sympathies or activities of subject but recoumends that entreme

caution be used

in any dealings with hin.

4)

One files on subject contain several

different

birth dates.

A "Secret* ONI

roport ol December 20, 1960, reflects

birth date as Decenber 15, 1928, at Cuantanano City,

Another for dated January A,

1961, shows his birth date as

April 9, 1929, at Guantanano, Oriente Province,

Cuba.

Decenber 15, 1960, shows his birth date as December 15,

1927, at the last mentioned place. (A)U)

The

ONE files reflect subject's

name as Louds (Luis)

Eusebio Balbuena

(Calzadilla).

described as a Cuban;

Caucasian,

and a Catholic by

roligion.

In 1960,

his addrese

was Calle Marti No. 1071,

Upper Apartment,

Guantanano

City, Cuba®

Tolson

also orned &

beach

house

ot Uvero Beach,

Guantanano.

Belmont

Mohr

Decenber 30, 1960

hemme mssistant to the Spocial Bervicos

Casper

Colla - VE 334-5020

JUN 2 5 1963

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668-Sc0 /S

DeLoach

COMM-FBI

Evans

0N6-16-97

LEt. 070

Gale

SEE NOTE

Rosen -

Sullivan

(JFK)

6-3-97

Tavel

Trotter

(5)

Tele. Room

Holmes

CJUL

Gandy

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

NH 53025

DooId: 32306397

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Lotter to Miami

LOUIS BALBUENA CALZADILLA

BRET

Officer at the Cuantanano Naval

Base

This was described as

one

the nost responsible positions hold by any Cuban on the

base.

Ho was restonsible for hiring and flring and tho administra

. of Cuban nationals employed by special Services.

discontimed his enployment and its contact with hin after they

found out thet he had been recolving money from Cuban refugees;

had used hie position to forco femle refugees to have sexual

rolations with hin; and because he mas suspected of muggling

mrijuana onto the

base for peddling to relugees and Navy personnel.

It was alleged that many Cubans wantod by the Cuban Covernment

had

been expelled from the base on his recommendation and had

been arrosted as soon as they vere brought to the base gate.

ON files reilocted that among

the latter vere persons named

The

Sibo

Torres and lonel Dagena.

(и)

According to ONI filos,

sobjoct had worked on the Base

sinco he was e teenager.

he roceived a high school education

in Cuba and had beon active in the July 26th Movenent during

Castro's fight againot Batiate.

Subsequently, he vas in ofticial

of the Nevolutionary Denocratic Tront described as a clandestine

anticommnist and anti-Caetro group.

Ho was alac active in

church circles,

including the Knights of Columous, politics

was snid to be ambitious to bo mayor of Guantanano City.

The ONI files show that he was an intolligenco officer in the

Castro forces so late as 1960 and

Intelligence

was said

to bo in charge of

Soction; Oriente

Province. (

(u)

As of 1960; subject was married and had tue children.

Delille of ONI bellevos his wife and children still my be im

Cula.

Subject olso had a brother, Bacon Balbuena, enployed

at the Navy Ischange on the Base; a brother, Tells, we 18

managor of the Navy

Exchange;

and

@ cousin,

Victor, who wat

described as an

oricial of the union of Base lorers. (E

(и)

Subject to further desertbed in ONI files as 6° gu

weighing 266 pounds, obase, stocky build, with tan

complosion and

• black hoavy nustache.

His hair 1s described

as dork brown,

short and wavy; eyes,

brown (wears glassos

occasionally); good

tooth; and a all mole on hit left chees

one-halt

inch scar on left forehead near the hairline.

Subject is said

to bo a friendly, capable Individual who has

leadership

qualities.

he is also said to be tluent in ungiish

in Spanish.

he is right-handed and lines sports. (e) (U

ECR

• 2.

NW 53025 DocId: 32306397

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Letter to Wlami

EX:

LOUIS

BALBURNA CALZADILLA

SECRET.

Delille o1 ONL

said that wishe Navy

has not maintained

cortact with subject it has received

that he is engaged

in some sort of activitios connectod

the Cuban situation.

A Base vorker named Miss Alicie Cruangs has told Navy that

she is connected with a group which has been involved in uprisings

against castro.

also advised Navy that she had in her

possession U.

S. postal money orders worth $1, 195 issued in

Miami..

These money orders were mide out to her and showed the

purchaser as Liginia Dias, 119 N. W.

48th

Place, Miami.

Dollille

these money

orders have been traced back to subject.

At the

time Miss Cranes contacted the Navy she requested U. 8.

support fos uprisings to take place last February.

Subsequent to receiving the above information about

Cruanes, Deliile said CIA advised ONI that it was learned

that

Miss

Cranes receives the money orders fron & Charles H. Leach,

who is also omployed on the Base.

Miss Cruanes then endorses

the money orders and gives the noney

to another Base worker,

Charles Tsotman.

Trotman then sends

the money to various

accounts in the

U. s. for Cuban citions and in return receives

Cuban pesos fron those persons.

Trotman then turns these pesos

over to Mariano hogalado, a resident of Santiago, Cuba, who gives

the noney to various groups of the LURK Movement for the

Revolutionary Rocovery in the

Escambray, Boniaco and Pinar del

Rio ares).

I that oni does not know exactly what is

bohind this manipulation of dunds but is sure thet subjeet is

bonine it.

Dolille reiterated his caution in any contacts with

subjeet.

Ho also pointed out that some of the information

nurnished by hin is actually that of CIA and should not be

alaseninated Mithout chocking with that Agoney. (Fly

Baliles contain no additional portinent information

concorning subject.

In view

no efforts should

of the inforation contained in this letter,

be made to develop subjeet as PSI.

There is

no objection, however,

to his boing utilized

IS & SOUICe of

inforation,

and you

aro authorined to accept any infornation

he may desire

to volunteer.

2(u)

NOTE:

Records of (oNI] were

reviewed by Liaison.

"1

-3=

NW 53025 DooId: 32306397 Page 4

---

## Page 5

I OPTIONAL FORM NiS. 10

UNITED STATES GOVER

Tolson -

JENT

Belmont

Memorandum

Mohr

Casper.

TO

June

SECRET

Callahan

Conrad _

DeLoach

D. J. BRENNAY PR

Evans

DATE:

20, 1963

Gale

Rosen -

Sullivan

FROM

J. M. FITZGERALD

gait

Tavel

/-1

Trotter -

SUBJECT:

LOUIS BALBUENA CALZADILLA

10 8-140

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy _

SOURCE OF INFORMATION - CUBA

Close mod lo

Declassify

On June 17, 1963, Mr. George DeMille of Office of Naval

Intelligence (ONI) headquarters made available the ONI files which

appeared to pertain to captioned individual. DeMille emphasized

that the ONI files are classified "Secret" and the former relationship

between ONI and the

subject is considered very sensitive and has

only very limited distribution.

DeMille added ONI had used subject

as an intelligence source for a number of years but discontinued

contact with him about November, 1961, because he was using his

position on the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base for his own personal

purposes:

About that same time the Navy assisted him in coming to

29241

the U.S.

и)

DeMille said that no further contact has been maintained

with the subject by the Navy since his arrival in the U.S. but it

believed that the CIA may have had some contact with him. DeMille

said that the Navy does not know anything about the present sympathies

or activities of subject but recommends that extreme caution be used)

in any dealings with him. (BU)

The ONI files on subject contain several different birth

dates.

A "Secret" ONI report of December 20, 1960, reflects his

birth date as December 15, 1928, at Guantanamo City, Cuba. Another

form dated January 4, 1961,

shows his birth date as April 9, 1929,

at Guantanamo, Oriente Province, Cuba.

A form dated December 15

Place a birt date as neember 2s, 1927, at the last nentloned

REG EA

MCT-5734-12019-3

The 'ONi files relect subject's name as Louis (Luis) Eusebio

Balbuena

(Calzadilla). He is described as a Cuban, a caucasian,

a Catholic by religion. In 1960, his address was Calle Marti No. 1071,

Upper Apartment, Guantanamo City, Cuba.

He also owned a beach

house

1

- Mr. Wannall

1

Mr.

Nasca

DECLASSIFIED BY 56S SeD

ON 6-14-97

46 JUN 27 1963

1

- Liaison

1-

Mr. Fitzgerald

116-3-97

JMF: gP

(5)

1-2470

ALL INFORIATION CONTAINED

HEREI IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEM

WHERE SHOWN ONERWISE. La

SEBRET

NW 53025 DooId: 32306397 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Memorandum to Mr. Brennan

RE: LOUIS BALBUENA CALZADILLA

at Uvero Beach, Guantanamo. As of December 20, 1900, he was

assistant to the special Services Officer at the Guantanamo Naval

Base.

held

This was described as one of the most responsible positions

by any Cuban on the base.

He was responsible for hiring and

firing and the administration of Cuban nationals employed by special

Services. ONI discontinued his employment and its contact with him

after they found out that he had been receiving money from Cuban

refugees; had used his position to force female refugees to have

sexual relations with him; and because he was suspected of smuggling

with hans tron to

marijuana onto the base for peddling to refugees and Navy personnel.

It was alleged that many Cubans wanted by the Cuban Government had

been expelled from the base on his recommendation and had been

arrested as soon as they were brought to the base gate.

The ONI

files reflected that among the latter were persons named Elbo

Torres and Manuel Dapena. (1) (u)

According to ONI files subject had worked on the base

since he was a teenager.

He received a high school education in

Cuba and had been active in the July 26th Movement during Castro's

fight against Batista.

Revot agonast Bewisratic ront describe wa a candistan an the

communist and

anti-Castro

group.

He was also active in church

politics and was said

The ONI files

show that he was an intelligence officer in the Castro forces as

late as 1960 and was said to be in charge of Intelligence Section,

Oriente: Province. (* (u)

cabar

As of 1960, subject was married and had two children.

DeMille of ONI believes the wife and children still may be in Cuba.

Subject also had a brother, Ramon Balbuena employed at the Navy

the Union of Base Workers. (%)(U)

ABalueNa

Subject is further described in ONI files as 6' 2" tall;

forehead near the hairline.

Subject is said

to be a friendly,

capable individual who has leadership qualities ne right-handed

to be fluent in English, as well

as in Spanish.

and likes sports. (5) (u)

- 2 -

RET

NW 53025 DooId: 32306397

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Memorandum to Mr. Brennan

RE: LOUIS BALBUENA CALZADILLA

cubar

SECRET

DeMille of ONI said that while Navy has not maintained

contact with subject, it has received wordrthat he is engaged ir

some sort of activities connected with the Cuban situation. A

base

worker named Miss Alicia Cruanes has told Navy that she is

connected with a group which has been involved in uprisings against

Castro. She has also advised Navy that she had in her possession U.S.

postal money orders worth $1195 issued in Miami.

these money order

vere made out to her and showed the purchaser as Higinia Diaz, 119

DeMille said that these money orders

NeW san a Mi subject At sae time the runes contacted the

Navy she requested U. So support for uprisings to take place last

February. ($)

(u)

Fla

cubic

Subsequent

to receiving

the above information about Cruanes,

DeMille said CIA advised ONI that it was learned that Miss Cruanes

receives the money orders from a Charles Ho Leach who is also employed

on the base. Miss Cruanes then endorses

then ontories t

the money orders and gives

the money to another base worker, Charles Trotman. Trotman then

the money

to various accounts. in the U. S. for Cuban citizens

and in return receives Cuban pesas rom those persons. trotman then

turns these pesos over to Mariano Regalado, a resident of Santiago

cuba, who gives the money to various groups of the LURR (Movement

for the Revolutionary Recovery in the Escambray, Boniaco and Finar

del Rio Areas ). (

DeMille said that ONI does not know exactly what is behind

this manipulation of funds but is sure that subject is behind it.

DeMille reiterated his caution in any contacts with subject. He also

pointed out that some of the information furnished by him is actually

that of

should not be disseminated without checking with that

Agency.

ACTION:

This memorandum is being directed to the attention of the

Nationalities Intelligence Section.

SERRET

-3-

HW 53025 DocId:32306397 Page 7

---

