# docid-32287408

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10197-10184

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-29-509

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/06/1962

2

CIP, RANDAZZO, ANTHONY STEFANO, ASSOC,

INFORMANTS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

# NW 45760

21

DocId: 32287408

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Fev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Transmit the following in

Via

Date: 4/6/62

AIR TEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

SAC, MIAMI (92-515) (P)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE

1 PROGRAM.

MIAMI DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DANIEL SULLIVAN, Operating Manager of the Crime

Commission of Greater Miami, on 4/4/62, advised that he had

received information that ANTHONY STEFANO RANDAZZO (Miami file

92-403) has a fish business located 2 doors from the Lucky

Bar on N. W. 27th Ave., North of 7th Street, Miami, Fla.

He stated he understood raw sea food and cooked sea food

could be taken out or eaten there.

MM 509-C on. 3/27/62, advised that he received

information that BENNY&SHERMAN, a bookmaker who was arrested

several years ago in a raid on

the North Dade Civic Club,

Dade County, Ela., is supposed to start bookmaking on motel

strip for HYMAN MARTIN, (Miami file 92-218) as soon as the

major basebll teams begint their regular season.

This source aso advised on 3/27/62, that he

received information that ALFIE MART (Miami file 162-44)

was recently ejected from the Gulfstream Park Race Track,

Hallandale, Fla., as a bookmaker, because MART, when questioned

by the track detectives became beligerent. He also received

information that an individual known as PETE (LNU) aka "Snake

Eye Pete"

bookmaker recently began working for MART as a

bookmaker

'37 Afete's Sundry stoxe, Lincoln and Alton Rd.: 509

Miami Beach.

3

Bureau ""AM

REC- 36

1-21

2

10 2s Uh .es

-

Miami

18 APR 10 1962

RFF : cmW

irishi.E

a cowie)

"Approved:

Sent

Per

62 APRIC

special Agend ir

1502

"NW 45760 DocId: 32287408 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM

92-515

On 4/5/62,

PCI, advised

that he heard BENJAMIN HUSICK (Miami file 162-80) has a

bank account at the Miami Beach National Bank and that in

the early part of 1961, HUSICK had some financial dealings

with Metro Mortgage and Loan Co., Miami Beach, where AL

MONES (Miami file 92-386) had a'big interest.

NY 3317-C-TE, on 3/29/62 stated he received infor-

mation that VINCENT JAMES PALMISANO (Miami file 92-503)

and his errand boy, RALPH PETILLO, plan to leave Florida

for Calif. at the close of track activities at the Gulf-

stream Race Track.

Miami currently has authority to conduct a survey

relative to MICHAEL COPPOLA (Miami file 92-101) and SANTO

TRAFFICANTE (Miami file 92-88).

OTHER 4

!

-

2 -

• **

"NW 45760 DocId: 32287408

Page 3

---

