# docid-32185868

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under

the

John F.

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of

1992 144 USC

2107 Notel .

Case# :NW 53130

ate: 06-01-2017

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10243-10078

RECORD SERIES: CG

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 62-6115-B-39

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. CG

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/30/1963

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 62-109060-1407

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

01/22/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NH 53130 DocId:32185868 Page 1

---

## Page 2

to t

URGENT

11-30-63

5-18 AM

EH

TO DIRECTOR SACS, DALLAS

LAS VEGAS

ST. LOUIS

SAN ANTONIO

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 162-61151

3-P

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY, NOVEMBER

TWENTYTWO, LAST, DALLAS, TEXAS. (U) ..

RE POSSIBLE CUBA CONNECTIONS WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD. (Ul

ON ELEVEN TWENTYNINE SIXTYTHREE CG SIX FOUR NINE ONE DASH C,

• CHARACTERIZED AS A PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR AND RELIABLE, ADVISED SA ROBERT

J. THOMPKINS, JR. THAT DURING DECEMBER OF NINETEEN SIXTY,

HE WAS ENGAGED INVESTIGATING BEN JAFFE WHO IS PRESENTLY

SUBJECT OF AR CASE UNDER THE CIP PROGRAM IN CHICAGO, HOWEVER,

JAFFE RESIDES IN LAS VEGAS AND IS THE OWNER OF THE

TROPICANA HOTEL. HE ADVISED THAT HE CONVERSED WITH

REVEREND BILL BEENY OF ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI, CONCERNING

JAFFE WHILE IN DEL RIO, TEXAS, DECEMBER OF NINETEEN SIXTY. (U)

END PAGE ONE

8)62-6115-371

.....

NW 53130 DocId: 32185868

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-3ộ (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

TELETYPE

Via

FBI

Date:

11/29/63

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

URGENT

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SACS, DALLAS

LAS VEGAS

ST. LOUIS

SAN ANTONIO

FROM: SAC, CHICAGO (62-6115)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY, NOVEMBER

TWENTYTWO, EAST, DALLAS, TEXAS(U!

RE POSSIBLE CUBA CONNECTIONS WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD.M)

11-29-63

ON THIS DATE CG SIX FOUR NINE ONE DASH C, CHAR ACTERIZED

AS A PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR AND RELIABLE, ADVISED SA ROBERT

J. THOMPKINS, JR. THAT DURING DECEMBER OF NINETEEN SIXTY,

HE WAS ENGAGED INVESTIGATING BEN JAFFE WHO IS PRESENTLY

SUBJECT OF ARCCASE UNDER THE CIP PROGRAM IN CHICAGO, HOWEVER,

JAFFE RESIDES IN LAS VEGAS AND IS THE OWNER OF THE

TROPICANA HOTEL. HE ADVISED THAT HE CONVERSED WITH

REVEREND BILL BEENY OF ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI, CONCERNING

JAFFE WHILE IN DEL RIO, TEXAS, DECEMBER OF NINETEEN SIXTY. (U)

RJT: dec

(1) Castin

Approved:

lu

Special Agent in Charge

NW 53130 DocId:32185868 Page 3

Sent

— M

13) 62-6115-39

DECA

Des

Per

EH

---

