# docid-32344747

## Page 1

Date: 10/13/99

Page:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Caser:NH 53199 Date:

06-06-2017

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10056-10379

RECORD SERIES :

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

CIA

FROM

BROWN, JERRY G., DC/ SAG

TO : C/ SAG

TITLE : GERALD PATRICK HEMMING.

DATE : . 06/11/76

PAGES

:.4

SUBJECTS : - HEMMING, G.P.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 06/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : JFK1: F11 1993.06.29.15:26:50:400280: PREVIOUSLY

SANITIZED.

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53199

DocId: 32344747

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CINCLASSIFIED

J

'STERNAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

NTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Oprianal)

HENNING, Gerald Patrick

FRCM:

Jerry G. Brown

Doputy Chicf

Security Analysis

TS:

¡Offear designation, room number, and

suilding:

GrOuP

EXTENSION.

4400

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO

429 229

11

June 1976

COMMENTS (Number eoch commens lo inge iran whom

to whom.

Draw a line across coiumn girer asci canment.)

C/ SAG

C/OPS/PS/

3:

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

11 рість

1484 6)2-

5A6

Entrina this i being

rifinale FBI-stat

Bine thile

5.

7.

$.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

is.

HH 53199

I USE

PRgUICUS

EDITICIS

DocId: 32344747

SECRET

Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE

ONLY

D00971

- UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 3

11 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

SE 429 229

Gerald Patrick

SF# 429

1. On 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HEMMING.

_was referred to the writer, who is holding the HEmMiNG

file.

When

contacted the writer,

advised that he

is the action officer for a cable from

the Guatemala Station

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

was

requested to alert

and JMWAVE

to the below-mentioned cable and to provide the writer with a

copy of the report coming in from the Guatemala Station.

2.

provided the writer with a copy of the cable

(IN 944357,

dated 8 June 1975),

which is attached.

In substance,

the cable reflects that

circa 8 June 1976

a Guatemalan source, with the knowledge of

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the Guatemala Station

a written report, and a detailed briefing,

concerning

a plot

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

According to the informa-

the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

of an attack upon his,.

ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since August

1975:

the National Liberation

Movement was involved with ZIMERI

3. According to the report in the assassination plot

and ZIMERI in turn was

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. The HEMMING brothers

atrick Hived with

involved with two Americans, brothers,

The report also

claims that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials

in Miami and New Orleans.

HŸ-53199 DooId:32344747 Page 3

E? IMPDET

CL BY 063994

900911

---

## Page 4

NOTE: The Guatemala Station also included

information the Chief of Station had received

from

- on 8 june.

_ said thâi he

had been providing information on ZIMERI to the

Guatemalan government for the past six months or

50.

He claimed that two

Americans were involved

with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service

in Miami.

• did not mention names but

described one of the Americans as about six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

4. The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

the

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c.

Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d.

e.

Does

ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-

tial

treatment by U. S. authorities which

permit him to carry firearms, as well as

to purchase arms and ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

On 1, June 1976

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

6. Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI. or Robert HEMMING.

From the name, physical description, activity, anc

alleged employment, it 1s apparent that Gerald Patrick MEMING

is identical with

the subject of Office of Security file

429 229, who has been described

as six-foot five, 250 pounds,

who is

a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who as

of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

Miami, Florida.

2

25222

031362

H7153199 DocId:32344747 Page 4

---

## Page 5

8.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,

the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JMVAVE.

i comed sion sinat on sentate the has mean

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed

affiliation was in May 1975 when he

volunteered his services

to the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),

aka: Frank FIORINI, of Watergate notoriety who also has a

long-time record of

falsely claiming Agency affiliation.

the late 1950's HEMMING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Communist Brigade. A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMMING.

9.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot

involving HEMMING, you are referred to attachments to instant

memorandum, to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;

and an extract from a book published in early 1976 written by

Michael

CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

The book Coup d'etat

in America--The CIA and the Assassination 'of John F. Kennedy

is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY. One of the major

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene

HALL.

Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members of this unit were connected with CIA.

GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is

interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING and

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISCN's investigation.

G.

Brown

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis Group

Atts

NH 53199 DocId:32344747 Page 5

---

