# docid-32319000

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hoter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10368-10134

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-54X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

NARA

FROM:

NARA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

06/03/1993

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/11/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC R/S

v9.1

DocId: 32319000

34

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note) :

^ DATE: /11-14-2017

DEPART.

- FEDERAL BUREAL

F JUSTICE

INVESTIGATION

INTERNAL ROUTING/ACTION SLIP

10

TL #

ROOM

NAME/TITLE

TO

TL #

7142

7110

7116

Mr. Clarke

Mr. Greenleaf

Mr. Gow

7240

7441

Mr. Collingwood

OLIA

OEEOA

7901

11255

Identification Division

[Quantic Training

6012

Administrative Services Div

4026

Intelligence Division

5012

3090

7159

Criminal Investigative Dix.

Laboratory Division

Technical services Division

7427

7125

Legal Counsel Division

Inspection Division •

5835

5829

CJIS

MI. Baugh/.

5829

Mr. Stoops/Grierson

1B327

1907

ROOM

5368

5634

5869

5869

5869

5640

15266

6296

6995

6992

6993

6975

16387

6959

14445

16712

1262

4865

6349

Mail Systems Services

Payroll

Voucher Unit

Mr, Klacik

ng polemno

NAME/TITLE

MI. Schiman

Mr. Morey

Mr. Kegebein

Mrs. janosa

Mrs. Richards

Mrs. Davis

Mrs.

Poll

Mr. O'BrienL

Mr. Lewis/Miss Beavers

Mr. Felix/Miss Crook

Mr. Tallant

Mr. Wroblewski/Miss Blake

Mr. Boutwell/Miss Eagleston

Mr. Smith/Miss Rogers

Mr. Colombell/Miss Hines

Ms. Davis/Miss Weeks

Mr. Harmon

ALL INFORMAT ON COMANNED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2/ 14/988: 5/668-520/pudl

• Call Me

• See Me

• Approp. Action

• Initial

Per Inquiry

FROM

• For Your Into.

Note & Return

• Record & Return

• See feverse Side

FREEDOM OF INFORMATION -

INFORMATION MANAGEMENT DIVISION

IVACY ACTS SECTION

Room

(over

TL #

Phone

Date

FBI/DOS

368-10134

DocId: 32319000 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

Terry-

I met with Charks

Dollar at 9Am 6/1/93

and advised him: that the

at Archives

MSCA material a is substantially

equivalent to our Reaching Room (ARI

collection but the HSCA material

has. lewer deletions, I told him

that we would have to flip thry

our RA browns and let hire know

which do

Adocuments.match.up..

up... There that

don't match up will require that

we song "Let ill, part on mathing to

now (under JFK Act).

Mr. Dollar will call us back.

His iredgets way ar may not be willerg

to let the Isca documents out off

the Arehives Bide,

I'll keep you poster

DocId: 32319000 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

National

Archives

Washington, DC 20408

Date

Reply to

Attn of

Subject :

TO

June 3, 1993

Charles Dollar

FBI Case File Review by NARA JFK Task Force

Grant Harmon

ALL FEI IACORMATION CONTAINED

He FBI louitain fewer redactions than our Reading

9Am and explained that the documents

On 6/1/93

SSA

Harmon

wet wis

given

Mr.

Room

materials.

H5CA

Dollar at

The purpose of this memo is to bring you up-to-date on our progress

in reviewing FBI case files relating to the

assassination of

President John F.

Kennedy that came into the hands of the House

Select Committee

on Assassinations.

Under the terms of the Kennedy Assassination Materials Disclosure

Act, we are required to complete

an identification aid for each

document in the FBI case files and to obtain the FBI's approval for

release of the documents:

As you may recall, George Chalou, Deputy

the NARA JFK Task Force, and

Mary Henderson

of your

staff, reviewed

the JFK case file and concluded that the materials

we were reviewing appeared

exact duplicates of what the

Absent a statement from the Bureau

that the JFK case file transferred to the House Select Committee on

Assassinations is disclosable because it is an exact copy of the

file released under FOIA, we plan to begin delivery to the

of 11,519

completed identification aid forms

associated with the 43 boxes or records that comprise the JFK case

Approximately two

later,

we expect to deliver a

comparable number of identification aid forms for the Lee Harvey

Oswald case file.

The JFK data collection database will show that

all of these documents are closed, pending completion of a FBI

review.

As you know, we have some 30 boxes of FBI documents that comprise

the

Jack

Ruby

case

estimate that there will

approximately 7,500 completed identification forms. The Ruby case

file poses unusual problems because there are two versions, one of

which

appears

to

nothing more than a copy of FOIA released

material.

The

second

version is identified as "Committee Staff"

and

appears

to have

fewer redactions

than the FOIA released

material.

We consider each version different and we are preparing

separate

identification aid forms for the documents

in

each

version.

624-4Q-1029205-54X

appears that the work load of both the FBI

and NARA

can be

reduced significantly if the Bureau certifies that the FBI case

files in our custody (excluding the second version of the Jack Ruby

Mr. Dollar will explore other possible

Mr i

Doc

Ia: 32319000 Fagéu procedures, National Archives and Records Administration Milar nursed 5 FB1

is what an

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

case file) are in fact exact copies of documents

previously

released by the Bureau under FOIA.

This would eliminate the need

for NARA to print out two copies of the identification forms and

relieve the Bureau of reviewing more than 20,000 identification

forms:

I am very interested in obtaining as soon as possible the Bureau's

certification in writing that the case files (except for the second

version of the Jack

Ruby case file) are disclosable because they

exact copies of material the FBI previously released

public under FOIA. Please advise me when I might expect a decision

from

the Bureau.

to commence delivery of completed

identification forms on Friday, June 11, 1993. However, receipt of

the above mentioned written certification would obviate this.

I should note that this proposed arrangement applies only to FBI

case files.

We have encountered numerous FBI

documents in the

numbered House Select Committee on Assassination records that must

be referred to the Bureau for authorization to disclose them.

It

will be a week or so before I can give you a preliminary estimate

of how many documents this will entail.

•If you have any questions, please feel free to call either me. or

George Chalou.

I can be reached on (202) 501 5532. George can be

reached on

219 3268.

DocId: 32319000

Page 5

---

