# docid-32304562

## Page 1

, JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/4/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10286-10192

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-339235-172

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

ADMINISTRATOR, BUREAU OF SECURITY

DATE: 05/07/1964

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SHF, CP ACT, PASSPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John

' Kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :WW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

y9.1

HT 54464

212

DocId: 32304562

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SUNDEN

DOS INFO

DECLASSIFIED

Administrator

Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs

Department of State

ATTENTION: SAC, NEW. YORK:

Reurairtel 4/13/64.

Expedite the submission of a current report

regarding the subject's activities.

NOTE:

¿Subject applied for a passport on 2/18/64 and

State Department requested advice regarding the possible

availability of various specific sources of this Bureau

Che above source

is former NY 2724S who was contacted by Los Angeles or

4/23/64.

This forner source prefersgnot to testily:

Los Angeles Indicates former NY (2724-s has potential to

become a productive source in Los Angeles and Los Angeles

considering reactivation of this former informant.

Los Angeles recommends former NY 2724-S not be released

and State Department being advised as hoted above f New York

has previously advised no additional admissible evidence

available regarding subject's Communist Party membership

since 10/20/61.

Internai Security Division of the Department

on 5/1/64 advised insufficient evidence available to establish

subject's Communist Party membership subsequent to July,

1961, and, therefore, prosecution not being instituted.

This letter is classified "Confidential" as

information relates to possible action to be taken

against the subject which could involve current informants,

the disclosure of whon could adversely affect the national

defense.

- CONFIDENT

HW 54461 DocId: 32301562 Page 2

---

