# docid-32324506

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90028-10038

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PAPICH

TO : L'ALLIER

TITLE :

[Restricted]

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/10/1961

E. HOWARD HUNT

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32324506

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORN, NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNWENT

Memorandum

TO

MR. L'ALLIER

DATE:

10-10-61

FROM

: S.J. PAPICI

Tolson -

SECRE

Belmont .

Mohr

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans —

Malone -

Rosen -

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

SUBJECT:

MIRCETU

CVOROVIC (S)

S - YUGOSLAVIA

2/26

75

Classil

A by

Declaspary on: 4/

The following information was furnished to the Liaison

Agent on

10-9-61, by Mrs. Jane Roman, Central Intelligence Agency

(CIA).

of the officials at tne Yugosla mass did noyed ho wes cS

(vorost was approached For posset or neede

of having a

The purpose of this

meeting will be to further assess

subject's potential

as a source

o1 information when he returns to Yugoslavials e)

that subject

of the Nationalities Intelligence Section.

¡a sure intentioned betto director du the attention f

SuP: jad

CIA HAS NO ODIESTION TO

(4)

jail

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR,

1-Mr.

Donahoe

RELEASE OF CIA IN CRUM BEE

1-Liaison

WA THIS DOCUMENT CS Suntre

32

1-Mr. Papich

ALI LUPTATION CONTAINED

HOT RTO TS UNCLASSIFTED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OSHERWISE.

To: 103316-2787

93 OCT 19 1961

LET TO NU

Classie /edelme G3

FLE/jup

2/23/98

Declassify

GADR

all, 3960

55. 1/wards

10-189-68

CLASSIF ED BY 5668-SL/md

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

DocId: 32324506 Page 2

---

