# docid-32332556

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90102-10203

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 185-517-16

Released under the John

'. Kennedy

Asassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIl 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/28/1975

6

MAX LESNICK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

H# 54460

28

DocId: 32332556

Page 1

---

## Page 2

9÷00 94.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

WASHINGTON

FIELD

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

WASHINGTON FIELD

TITLE OF CASE

UNSUB; Explosion

Airlines Office,HAeroflot,

at the sovlet

1101 16th Street, N. W.;

Washington,

D. C.,

5/10/75

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOGRE

5124-7128775

7/28/75

REPORT MADE BY

SA ROBERT J. REITWIESNER

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

pkh

EID; PFO-SUBVERSIVE

ALL

IMPORTATION GOUTAINED

ERMISE

SEP 6 1979

REFERENCES:

Miami teletype to

Bureau and San

Juan dated 5/6/75 dual captioned

"Organization of American States,

IS - LATIN AMERICA", and "Frente

FABul (173) de Liberacion Nacional de Cuba

(National Liberation Front of Cuba)

(FLNC), IS - CUBA".

San Juan nitel to Bureau and Miami

GeLA

dlassified by

2419

Exempt from

Category

Date of Decra

•§1f1cation - Indefinite

Wink

CONVIC.

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

- NONE

RECOVERIES

APPROVED

COPIES

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

ACQUIT-

TALS

CASÉ HAS BEEN:

ENDING OVER ONE YE

ENDINÈ PROSECUTIO

OVER SIX MONTHS E

FIST WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

116

DINO

1

2

Bureau

USA,

washington, D.boeu

U. S. Secret

Service

Newark (Info)

New York (185-373) (Info)

Miami (185-51)

- WFO

(174-580)

REC-23

OADR

14S0

90Г 31

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Ewd.

• How Fud.

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

2-AAG

1-U505

31115

Noraha

EIVE

88 DEC 1 5 19/5.

1. is "yes

NH 54460

DooId: 32332556

Page 2

#6013(34) 156/143-413177

COVER PAGE

SECRETI

---

## Page 3

SE

WFO 174-580

References continued

dated 5/27/75 captioned

"Frente de Liberacion Nacional

de Cuba (National Liberation

Front of Cuba) (FLNC), IS - CUBA".

Miami letter to Bureau and San

Juan dated 6/5/75 also captioned

"FLNC, IS - CUBA".

WO report of SA ROBERT J.

REITWIESNER dated 6/10/75.

Miami airtel to Bureau dated

7/16/75.

-₽ -

ADMINISTRATIVE

The investigative period of this report overlaps

Investigative period of previous report due to the fact that

WO was not in receipt of the results of investigation of

auxilary offices at the time the last report was prepared.

Through established liaison, local law enforcement

agencies are being made aware of all

pertinent facts contained

in this report.

Miami is directed to referenced teletype in which MM

10/1337 adyised on 5/6/75 that on the night of 5/5/75 ORLANDO

"BEBO" ACOSTA. received a telephone call from REINOL RODRIGUEZ

RODRIGUEZ spoke "double talk" but the meaning

was clear to ACOSTA. RODRIGUEZ said that "our small brother

will be working tomorrow or the day after." He then said that

this brother would be working be the m

RODRIGUEZ added that ACOSTA would be called again

work is done" so that he could "take care of the rest."

Source said that "our small brother" is a phrase the

FLNC usually uses to refer to. "ELAC", the name used by FLNC

when taking credit for a bombing. The phrase "take care of

the rest" means the news release, which would be given out

in Miami.

B

-

COVER PAGE

EC

54460 DooId:32332556 Page 3

---

## Page 4

EC

WFO 174-580

RJR: pkh

Miami is also directed to referenced nitel in

which SJ. 1573-PSI advised on 5/24/75 that 1t was rumored

in the Miami area that the two individuals responsible for

the recent bombings during the conference of the Organization

• during the conference

of American States at Washington, D. C.,

during May, 1975,

are FELIPE RIVERO and his associate RAMON LNU.

source de-

scribed RIVERO as being the leader of Los Nacionalistas, a

small Cuban exile group in Miami, and RAMON as being the

second in charge. RIVERO, who is about 48 years of age,

a prisoner in Cuba after the Bay of Pigs invasion; and 1s

now a salesman for Billmore Motors in Miami. His

associate,

1s an extremely dangerous individual

as being a white Cuban male in his fortles.

and is described

WFO source contacted on 6/17/75 with negative results

was WF 2037-S, who was out of the country at the time of

cap-

tioned bombing.

Sources who were contacted in the Newark Metropolitan

area who are familiar with matters involving the Cuban community

were:

NK 5273-S, NK 5775-PSI, NK 6030-PSI, NK 2622-5*

and NK

2670-s.

Lead to contact U. S. Customs Office at John F. Kennedy

International Airport, New York, regarding Importers or dis-

tributors of Engorsele watches has been previously set out in

case captioned Explosion at Chancery of Mexico, 2829 16th

Street,

N. W., Washington, D. C., 5/10/75, PFO; BOMBING - SUB-

VERSIVE.

LEADS

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA. (1) Will develop background

Information and contact sources regarding ORLANDO "BEBO"

ACOSTA in attempt to determine if he played any role in the

preparation of note claiming credit for captioned bombing.

(2) Wi11 verify FELIPE RIVERO's presence in Miami

area during period 5/9/75 - 5/10/75 through employment records

at Billmore Motors.

-C-

COVER PAGE

CONFIDENTIAL,

HH 54460

DocId: 32332556 Page 4

---

