# docid-32572447

## Page 1

FD-36 inev. 12-13-56)

BI

Transmit the following in.

Via -

AIRIEL

Date:

PLAIN TEXT

('Type in plain text or code)

AIRMA ILL

8/18/61

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2918)

SAC, MIAMI (92-155)

/ GABRIEL. MANNARINO, aKa

AR

/ SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka

AR

(00: Pittsburgh)

ReButel to Pittsburgh 8/17/61, with reference to

Pittsburgh estimating the value and recommendation of MEROLA

as to whether or not he should be included in the top echelon

criminal informant program.

2 Co

MEROLA was fornerly a CI of the Miami Office.

It

was necessary to discontinue him as such for reasons previously

furnished the Bureau and no change has come about whereby Miami

recommends consideration be given to him as a CI.

It is recom-

mended that"any information he may desire to furnish be ob-

tained from him, however, the same not sought inasmuch as it

is believed MEROLA would use this to his own advantage and to

the embarrassment of the Bureau at a subsequent time..

92-2914-

TOTRUCORDED

I AUG 247961---

24

AUG 2T

• 1961

102

ORIGINAL FILED IN

Bureau (AM)

2

- Pittsburgh (1 - 92-236) (1 - 92-228)

3 - Miami (1-87-8049) (1-137-2065)

HWS : amc

(8)

Jer PG

18-21-61

c0 : Wich

Approfed. AUG 29 19611

Special Agent in Charge

Sent.

_M . Per

NW 45852 DooId: 32572447

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PO-dotHer. 12-10-501

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

On the night of 8/17/61, MM 722-C, who is a close

associate of MEROLA and who is a close associate of one MEL

ADLER, who is an associate of MEROLA, advised he had been

informed by MEROLA and by ADLER that MEROLA has been stating

that he will not have to serve any time in the case entitled

"STUART SUTOR, Et Al; ITSP; iTGI; FFA; NM; CONSPIRACY."

MEROLA has stated that the matter has been taken care of in

Philadelphia and it has cost him a "tremendous bundle" to

have his pending five year sentence suspended and have him

placed on probation. He has indicated this will transpire

next Thursday or Friday, on the 24th or 25th of August,

when he was supposed to start serving his sentence.

allegedly is to appear before the Federal Judge in Pittsburgh

at that time to be placed on probation.

MEROLA is presently a top jewel thief of the Miami

Office, and is known to be, and has admitted to the Pittsburgh

Agents, that he pulled the major theft this last winter at

the Hofbrau Haus in Hallandale, Fla.

Miami requests the Bureau give authority to

Pittsburgh to inform the Federal Judge at Pittsburgh concern-

ing statements made by MEROLA. These are namely, that he has

spent a "tremendous bundle" to have his case fixed in Pitts-

burgh to where he will be placed on probation rather than

serve his pending five year sentence.

2

Approved:

Sent :

_M Per.

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45852 DocId: 32572447 Page 2

---

