# docid-32191160

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10255-10094

RECORD SERIES:

SA

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER:

105-2909-641

Released under the John F.

Kennedy assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC

2107 Notel.

Case#: NT 53130

Pate: 06-01-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

GEMBERLING, ROBERT P.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/15/1964

PAGES:

327

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 105-82555-3464

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

11/20/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 53130 DocId:32191160 Page 1

---

## Page 2

-

F1-263 (5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Roporting Offos

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

Otton ol Ortgta

DALIAS

Derta

4/15/64

11/24/63-4/6/64

soport sado be

SA ROBERT P. GABBLING

СИЛЛАСТЕВ ОР СЛЯЯ

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aXa.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

IS - B - CUBA

1 K/28147)

ALL ENOR

HENCE? 4A1

REFERENCE:

Report of SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING, 3/10/64, at Dallas.

• P.

63697

(5FK).

ENCLOSURES:

TO THE BUREAU:

Enclosed herewith and attached to appropriate copies of

this report for the Bureau are three photographs each of Exhibits

D-100, D-101, D-118, D-150, D-155, D-193, D-194 and D-195.

Also enclosed for the Bureau are three copies each of

four Polarold prints showing entrance wound in Iight sido of head

of Dallas Police Officor J. D. IIPPIT and the other three showdag

the body wounds in the upper body of Officer TIPPIT. All thien

copies of these four Polaroid prints are being enclosed vita the

Bureau's copy of this report as no exhibit number has as yot been

given to these prints and it is not known whether the Burend will

desire to furnish same to the President's Coumission.

"Epecial tigent

Do not tillo to sporans boden

Approved

Is Charge

Copter soda:

10 - Bureau (105-82555) (Enc. 36) (RM)

105

2909

641

1

- New Orleans (100-16601) (Info.) (RA

San Antonio (105-2909)

(Info.)

(RM)

SEARCHED +

SERIALIZED

_INDEXEC

- Dallas (100-10461)

5/1/93 9

Classified by

Inde

1 9 1964

J3I - SAN ANTONION

Kemosy

бурм

da

2Đ

SEBRE

Property of PBI. This soport le lowned to you by the

HAL,

and nathar it not

dinertbared

HH 53130

DocId:32191160 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DI 100-10461

AQ 44-391

INFORMANTS, Cont'd

AQ 193-C on March 6, 1964, furnished the following

information to SA PAUL I. DORRIS at

Albuquerque, New Mexico:

About two weeks ago EVERETT D. SCHAFER, Pyramid

Commercial Refrigeration Service, 909 Bridge Street SW,

Albuquerque, New Mexico, was heard to relate the following:

About January 10, 1964, EVERETT D. SCHAFER and his

wife, FRANCES SCHAFER, had to go to Beaumont, Texas, in con-

nection with some litigation there. On the way back to

Albuquerque, New Mexico, from Beaumont, Texas, they stopped

at the residence of CARL SCHAFER Or KARL SCHAFER, address

unknown, Dallas, Texas. CARI SCHAFER is EVERETT D. SCHAFER 'S

brother. He is an "oil promoter" and a "stock salesman" in

Dallas. The two brothers were formerly in this business to-

• gether in Dallas.

At CARL SCHAFER's residence while EVERETT D. SCHAFER

was there, also present was a writer from Germany, name unknown.

who is working on the story of Mrs. LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka.

Marina Oswald. This writer was staying at the residence of

CARL SCHAFER at Dallas. Also present at the CARL SCHAFER IeSI

dence was the business manager of MIs. LEE HARVEY OSWALD, name

unknown, and an attorney whose firat name is TOM, Last name

unknown, but whose last name may be HOWARD.

• While at this residence, EVERETT D. SCHAFER learned

that the attorney for Mrs. OSWALD and her business manager are

getting a percentage of the money donated to her and that some

effort is being made to diabar Mrs. OSWALD's attorney.

TOM (LNU) OF TOM HOWARD was concerned that other

attorneys would be hired to represent RuBY and that his services

would be discontinued

•D=

COVER PAGE

53130

DocId: 32191160

Page 3

---

