# docid-32286875

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).*

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10196-10151

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-29-369

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE : 01/15/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIP, ASSOC, GAMBLING, ACT, ARREST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286875

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1902 (11 USC 2107 K

HotEP-36 (FDATER:13190214-2017

FBI

'Date:

• 1/15/62

Transmit the following in -

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (92-515) (P)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI OFFICE

Weekly Summary

MM. 509-C. on 1/4/02 advised JOHN TRONOLONE, (Miami

File 92-455) has been passing out some blue attractive

caras advertising Puccini's Restaurant, Miami, Fla.

These

cards are being distributed to various

gambling places and

business establishments at Miami Beach, Fla. JOE FISCHETTI

(Miami File 92-99) has an interest in Puccini's Restaurant.

He also advised that the bookmaking establishment operated

in a cigar stand located on the ground floor of the old Mid-

town Social Club, Miami Beach, by JOHN TRONOLONE and his

brother, CARMINE

TRONOLONE,

is still operating and that

CARMINE TRONOLONE handles the action here.

When he is not

there, MURRAY GOLDBERG, a bookmaker, takes care of the action.

MM 509-C also on 1/4/62 advised that JOE MASSEI (Miami

File 92-122) for the first time in years did not give out;

but a few food baskets to the needy the past Christmas.

He

said he heard a rumor that MASSEI for the first time in years

did not furnish members of the Miami Beach PD with their

usual $100 bill at Christmas time.

This source also stated he heard that the Virginian

•Hotel, 1665 Alton Road, Miami Beach, where AL MONES (Miami

92-386) allegedly

had a financial interest was recently

to some legitimate people.

C3 - Bureau (AM)

2 - Miami

RFF: aln

(5)

100

REC- 9

62:9-28-369

PI80

c.?0 My 16 1962

Approved:

Sent _

_ M

Per

2a special Went i

DocId: 32286875 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the tom F. Kennedy assassiration Records talECTiON ACt 414902-484 use 2107.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 92-515

On 1/8/62 MM 509-C advised that VINCENT JAMES

PALMISANO has been going to Tropical Race Track almost daily

and on occasions books some of the bets of the individuals he

goes with. In addition he learned PALMISANO is hanging around

the Dunes Motel and prior to going to the track takes some bets

there.

LEONARD DAYE, Investigator for the Florida Hotel

Commission on 1/5/62 advised that on 12/29/61 he arrested SAM

DI CARLO (Miami File 92-103) for interfering with an officer

at his apartment 2851 Sheridan Road, Miami Beach, even though

DI CARLO prior to his arrest flushed his wagering bets down

a laboratory.

WILLIAM ROY ROBINSON (Miami File 165-58) was

arrested by officers of the Dade County Department of Public

Safety on 12/20/61. ROBINSON was spotted outside Tropical

Race Track with a telescope trained on the tote board which

reflects the results of a race.

Ostensibly he was arrested

on Bench Warrants issued for three old traffic tickets.

ROBINSON was released on $250 bond and is presently. being

checked by officers of the Department of Public Safety to

determine if he 1s working for a wire service operator in Miami.

MM 786-C on 1/6/62 advised he observed ROBINSON :

driving a 1960 Pontiac, which ROBINSON parked at the Sundries

Store of NEIL WINTERING (Miami F1le 165-20). MM 786-C also

advised he observed ROBINSON conversing with RALPH SHEA, (Miami

F1le 165-16) •

Investigation being intensified on JOSEPH FLAX,

associate of MEYER LANSKY, In effort to develop highly

confidential source.

2

forever.

DocId: 32286875

Page

---

