# docid-32165517

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

—----

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10158-10042

HQ

105-82555-3507

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

LEG, BN

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 04/21/1964

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LHO, POST-RP, ASSOC, POLIT AND SUBV ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/25/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

N9.1

DocId: 32165517

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Mote).

DAVE (Flal: 1412027

F B GECKE

Date:

4/21/64

Transmit the following in

(Type ini plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

(STiC), 3111197

-CLASSISTED BY 5668 SUD/GEL

(105-82555)

DECLASSIFY ON: 5%. (6)

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

LEGAT, BONN

LEE HARVEY

IS - R - CUBA

(62-36) (P)

4/15/93

Classife

9803 рг

OSWALD

ReBulet to Bonn dated 3/30/64. V

12/1T

52

OZAZAS 1

Herr WERNER SMOYDZIN, Assistant Chief, Right-Radicalism

Section of the Bundesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz/-

(BIV - West

German Federal Agency for the Protection of

tine

constitution)(sA

advised as follows on April 17 and 20, 1964:

EdwIN

Gail

The interview of former General WALKER appearing in

the Apeutsche National-Zeitung und Soldaten-Zeitung' (DNZSZ)

on Notember 29, 1963, probably was conducted by one HELMUT

HUBERT/WUENCHO

The interview was conducted under a pseudonym

R

Known to be used by MUENCH. MUENCH has been known to the Bffs)

for some time because of his connection with right-radical

activities.

He is known as a contributor at least to the DNZSZ.

He has a legal residence in Hamburg and is a West German.

MUENCH was reportedly in the United States some time

prior to November 22, 1963, conducting interviews and research

for the paper.

He purportedly interviewed Senator GOLDWATER,

among others. Mu

MUENCH is also considered

the most likely candidate

as author of the short article "The

Strange Case of Oswald"

There is a German studont named DECk KUNBRT GO 15

also a contributor to DNZSZ.

He has been studying at the

University of Dallas.

The only address-known for him in Dallas

is Post Office Box 1330, He wassupposed to have returned to

West Germany on April 1, but this, has not yet been verified.

5 - Bureau

It to Born 4-29 REC- 20

105-8255533

(1-Liaison)

(2-Dallas: 100-10461)

2. A. Man lo)

-15

+ 961

1 - Bonn

JCFM:eds (6)

Approved:

SECRE

. € C- Wick

Special Agent in Charge

Exempl

58A Sta

i entien inde

1 и)

DocId: 32165517 Page 2

---

## Page 3

inder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colléttion Act of 1992 (14 USE 2107 Hote).

1-14-2017

1 8

ECA

2.220

BONN 62-36

The Bly

attempting to locate both MUENCH and KUNERT

and will interview both of them if necessary to determine

who conducted the intent

article "The Strange Case or Oswald.

determine the basis for the assertions in the article, it possible

The Brits procuring original copies of the DNZS7

wherein the Interview and article appeared (

It is suggested that Dallas conduct investigation

to determine if KUNERT has

returned to West Germany and

that Dallas interview him if he has not.

• 1957

DEF

AMAL

SECRET

-2-

105-82555-3507

DocId: 32165517

Page 3

---

