# docid-32340513

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90115-10084

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-108665-99

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DEPT. OF JUSTICE

FROM: DOJ/CRIM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/13/1976

2

[Restricted]

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS :

MEMO, REFERRED TO DOJ

v9.1

DocId: 32340513

22

Page 1

---

## Page 2

*Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (*1 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPRASNAL FORM NO. 10

JULY: 1973 EDITION

GSA EPMR 141, CER) 101-11.8

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Department of Justice

TO

The Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

September 13. 1976

DATE:

RLT : KWM: CLJ : nae

12-017-04

FROM

SUBJECT:

Richard L. Thornburgh

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

United States v. Mitchel Werbell, III

Southern District of Florida

Two members of the Narcotic and Dangerous Drug Section of the

Criminal Division are the trial attorneys in the above-mentioned case

in the Southern District of Florida. On August, 30, 1976, the trial

judge issued an order which required the prosecutors to ask several

agencies including the Federal Bureau of Investigation some questions.

The questions that the Federal Bureau of Investigation must answer are

these questions:

1) Has any money been paid to any of the individuals or cor-

porations listed below by the Federal Bureau of Investigation?

2) Has the Federal Bureau of Investigation had any contacts with

the individuals or corporations listed below that resulted

in the Federal Bureau of Investigation being given any information

by those individuals or corporations?

Individuals: The first five individuals are defendants in the Werbell

case.

30 SEP 15-1976

1. Mitchell L

Werbell, III

2. William Martin Bell

3.

Morton Franklin

4. Gerald Wayne Cunningham

5. John Nardi

D.O.B.

3/8/18

6/27/28

11/1/26

5/24/41

1/24/16

30

INFORIATION CONTAINED

ALLO

HEROIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

10/31/96 8Y.5668 SLO/TeL

DATE 10

The next three names were supplied by the defense counsel.

EX 104

1.

2.

3.

Robert Bayard

John Muldoon

Maura D. Mangum

REC-51

62-108665-99

Corporations:

Central Investigative Agency,

Inc.

Security Consultants International, Inc.

Defense Services Co.

L

Defense Systems International

Research Corporation Of America

Miller and Raymond Research

Projects

SEP. 75-1976

Tell

H41041

60

6 SEP 2 CBuy fE.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

DocId: 32340513 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

- 2-

This letter is a follow-up to a request that was made telephonically

on August 31, 1976.

The jury returned a verdict of not guilty on September 6, 1976 and

if you have not completed action in this request, you may discontinue

working on it. Thank you for your cooperation.

Sincerely,

Richard L. Thornburgh

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

DocId: 32340513

Page 3

---

