# docid-32321869

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10378-10027

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-3355

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

KC

HQ

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/11/1996

2

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/03/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32321869

346

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

(06/01/1995)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

374

Precedence: DEADLINE 10/11/1996

TO: IRD

Attn:

Date:

10/11/1996

JFK Task Force

Brian Fields, Room 6362

FrOM:

Kansas City

Squad 10

Contact: Kevin Steck (816) 691-8323

approved By: steck Kevin & j24

Drafted By: Steck Kevin B:kbs

Case ID #: 62-HQ-1029205

92-KC-116 (Closed)

92-KC-116 SUB A (Closed)

94-KC-150A (Closed)

Title: JFK RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992 (The Act)

Synopsis: To provide original serials from various Kansas City

files in response to the Assassination Records Review Board's

(ARRB) 9/10/96 letter, and to request that source identifying

information be redacted prior to the serials being released

outside of the Bureau.

Reference: 9/24/96 Electronic Communication (EC) to Kansas City

from IRD, JFK Task Force, captioned as above, and 10/8/96

telcalls

between CDC Steck and Ms. LuAnn Wilkins.

Enclosures: Enclosed is a copy of the referenced EC and following

original serials: 1) 92-KC-116, serials 1395-1671; 2) 92-KC-116

Sub A, serials 72-281B; and 3) 94-KC-150A, serials 223-310.

Details: Referenced 9/24/96 EC advised that the ARRB has

identified certain files for review.

To respond to the ARRB

request, Kansas City was directed to forward the followin

original serials, which are enclosed:

1.

92-KC-116, serials, 1395-1671;

2.

92-KC-116 Sub A, serials 72-281B;

3.

94-KC-150A, serials 223-310.

1

62F #Q-1029205-3355

. DocId: 32321869 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John

_E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

To: 'IRD From: Kansas City

Re: 62-HQ-1029205, 10/11/1996

Within Kansas City' files, the original serials have

been replaced with copies.

Kansas City was further directed to review the enclosed

serials and, if the records concerned electronic surveillance,

to

identify the name and jurisdiction of the judge approving the

electronic surveillance, any docket number or case name

associated with the information, the location and duration of the

electronic surveillance, and the subject of the electronic

surveillance.

Pursuant to instructions provided by Ms. Wilkins,

Kansas City need not be concerned with the requested descriptive

information concerning electronic surveillances as all

the

enclosed serials were prepared prior to enactment of Title III of

the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968.

Additionally, Ms. Wilkins advised that prior to the

enclosed records being provided to the ARRB, the records will be

reviewed and all information which could potentially identify

human confidential sources will be redacted in accordance with

the legislation establishing the ARRB.

This is of particular

importance to Kansas City, as the descendants of the subjects

identified in the enclosed documents continue to participate in

organized crime activities and the descendants of the sources

identified continue to provide information to this Division.

Consequently, the release of information concerning sources in

the enclosed documents, whether the identified source is alive or

deceased, could negatively impact pending investigations within

the Kansas City Division and jeopardize the safety of the

source's relatives.

In the event Headquarters is unable to process the

enclosed records to delete human confidential source identifying

information, it is requested that Kansas City be provided

specific instructions to comply with the applicable legislation

and the records be returned for processing by this Division.

Cc:

1 - SSA Strait

1

- PS Hartman

1 - CDC Steck

2

DocId: 32321869

Page 3

---

