# docid-32307305

## Page 1

JFK Assassination Systen

Identification Forn

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10292-10008

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-25,26

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MELLOTT, FRANK L.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/17/1958

'PAGES:

26

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, GAMBLING, EXTORTION, B/F

INT, TRA, WHEREABOUTS, REL, FISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32307305 Page 1

426

---

## Page 2

Report Form

D-263 (5-12-55)

Reporting Office

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Office of Origin

9/4,

Dato

CHICAGO

Inves

10/17/58

ni 5.24, 9/21-11

Repore nado dy

t&-25, 29,80:10/1,3

÷3-11

,,9,10

FRANK L. MELLOTT

Typed

CHARACTER OF CASE

fe:

SAMUSI i1. GIANCANA, was.

ANTI - RACKETEERING

synopsis:

Information set out regarding following associates of subject:

FRANK EULO,

FEET

ROCCO EULO, CHARLES NICOLETTI, ROCKY PRANO,

MIKE SABATINO and PASQUALE STELLA. Subject identified

probably identical with gambling "boss' who told Kane

County, Illinois, jukebox operator he and associates were

slots into county and expressed view

to jukebox operator he should "go along' with them. When

operator did not acquiesce, he was first pressured by

gambling boss' subordinates to get out of business and

then threatened with fatal or crippling beating with

No action taken by local officials. No

Subject identified in 1954, by

being 'boss" of corrupt union officials. Information

developed that subject owns Americana Motel, Stone Park,

Illinois, and Villa Venice, large restaurant and lounge

northwest of Chicago.

Subject reportedly was in Cuba

caring hearings of $ nate Solect Committee and returned

to celebrate conclusion of hearings at Villa Venice with

other leaders of crime syndicate.

Informant aavised that

Approved

Copies na

fineston

2 - Bureau (92-0171)

Special Agent

1n Charge

Do not

write in spaces belov

92-3171-25

? - Chicago (92-349)

4/20/84 SPSATS/BuY

N2. SECT.

Property of FBT

the agency to wbich loaned.

This report 1s loaned to you by the FBl, and neither it nor its

contents are to be distributed outside

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1956 O-385319

NW 45792 DocId: 32307305 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-349

ANDREW AITKEN, then Chief of Detectives, Chicago

Police Department, advised in 1952, that the PAUL ROSS

gang, formerly very active in armed robberies, was again

active in local robberies, burglaries and hijackings.

Detective AITKEN furnished a list of associates of PAUL

ROSS.

Included in this list is the name PASQUALE STELLA,

1234 South 50th

Court, Cicero:

CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES

Gambling and Extortion

503 South Fourth Street, Aurora,

operator

of the Valley Music Company, 164 North Farnsworth,

Aurora, advised SAs PAUL B. FRANKFURT and HOWARD A.

CARLSON on August 12, 1958, that he has been in the jukebox

business for approximately

twenty years.

He commented that

he operates about 250 jukeboxes at the present time. [

furnished the following information regarding efforts

by the crime syndicate to "muscle" into Kane. County:

Shortly before Labor Day, 1956,

called on him in person at his office, and said that

his "boss". wanted to see him at his office. PRANO did

not say who his boss was or why he wanted to see him.

Thereafter on the Thursday before Labor Day, 1956, he

drove to the Moose Lodge in Naperville (where he has a

jukebox), and met ROCKY PRANO and drove in PRANO's car

to the Lilac Lodge on Wolf and Cermak Roads.

He said they went into the Lilac Lodge and had

PRANO felt sure his boss would be along shortly; however,

POSS stated he became uneasy because this did not appear

to be an office to him, and after their drink went out

and

sat in PRANO's car.

alongside the car, two obviously bodyguards for the third

individual, who was a little man wearing dark glasses,

smooth face, and in the middle forties or early fifties.

stated

asked abou

driving away he said that was an order from the boss.

- 6 -

OTHER 4

SdJ-N88R

NW 45792 DocId: 32307305 Page

3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-349

stated they drove around various roads

including

York

"taken for a ride".

now where seated tease te to been

uneasy, and he decided to give the appearance of "going

along" with any suggestions they would make. He said the

"boss" asked him how many jukeboxes he had, and POSS told

him and then was told by the boss, "We're going to make

you a lot of money with books and

slots."

He said in

order to stall them off he told them he

could not give

them a definite answer then as he was going to the lakes

for three days and for them to see

him upon his return

next Tuesday to discuss the matter further. He said that

he was not harmed on the ride and was returned to his

automobile.

Upon returning to Aurora, he immediately called

Sheriff HOWARD KELLETT and told him of his recent ride,

and asked advice as to how to cope with the situation.

Between them it was decided to tell the "musclemen" that

he had a silent partner who would not go for their deal

and that, therefore, it was all off.

At this point, Mr.

Iwas shown several photographs and he picked out the

photograph of SAM GIANCANA as closely resembling the

"boss" when he was taken on a ride.

He said PRANO

did return to his office and was advised as stated above.

He stated that after this he was visited by RALPH KELLY

of Elgin, Illinois, who told him he hated to 'do this but

it was an order that he,

get out of business.

Shortly thereafter CLARENCE LAMBERT, 75 South

Chestnut, Aurora, came to his home with a similar type

message.

stated he had made no effort to go out

of business and had no further trouble until several

weeks later when he began receiving anonymous phone calls.

stated that although he could not prove who the

caller was he felt sure it was ROCKY PRANO, as he recognizec

is voice. In these phone calls he was told they had

found out

that he did not have a silent partner, and that

if he did not go out of business they would break both of

his legs with

a baseball bat, and if he lived he would be

a cripple for life. One of

these threatening calls was

received by his wife after which she became hysterical

and it was necassary for him to send her to Florida for

three or four weeks to recuperate.

OTHER

4

И

_ 7 -

so: 108vd.

NW 45792 DocId: 32307305 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-349

stated that he continued in business

despite

these threats.

The next step against him was

the destruction of some of his equipment at the following

locations:

Half Moon Tavern, Route 64, second tavern

west of city limits of St. Charles;

Club Moderne, Alternate 30, two miles

east of Geneva;

Peter De King, Jr., Route 25, Aurora Avenue,

North of Aurora.

At these locations two men entered with one

wielding a gun and one an ax.

While the location owners

were menaced with the gun their equipment was demolished

with

an ax, resulting in a total loss of one pool game,

one shuffle

alley, and three pin ballmachines. He

said at the Half

Moon Tavern this incident was witnessed

by the wife of BERNARD BAILEY, who owned the tavern at

that time, and by BAILEY's partner, HARRY, last name

unknown, and his wife., At the Club Moderne only the

wife of

STANLEY PATEK was a witness to the axing. At

Peter De King's tavern, he was not certain as to the

witnesses.. He was of the opinion that the damage

was ver thee

done to these machines was over a period of about ten

days during early 1957.

He specifically recalled that

the damage to PETER DE KING was done on a Sunday night.

stated he knew PRANO under the name of

ROCKY MARTEL until the time of his arrest, when he used

the name of PRANO. He stated he had also

used the

name of ROCKY BARTEL.

further added that at the time of his

ride, frequent references were made to the fact that

"they" had invested heavily in the county and he has

told this to the State's Attorney, the local judge, and

the Kane County Grand Jury, but no action has been taken.

stated that he has been subpoenaed by

the Senate Select Committee, and while he is not happy

about appearing before it,

especially on television,

he will testify reluctantly to the events as related

above.

further stated that he does

any of his jukeboxes or records trom outs the archase

state.

- 8 -

1060Z

NW 45792 DocId: 32307305

Page

5

OTHER

4377

---

## Page 6

CG 92-349

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following criminal informants areccurrently in

a position to furnish information relative to the subject:

CG 6132-C

CG 5951-C

CG 6215-C

PCI

PCI

PCI

PCI

RENE

MODROSS

PCI

The above criminal informants and potential criminal

informants are being contacted on a regular basis with the

objective of securing information of value relative to the

Top Hoodlum Program.

Attention is being directed to

securing additional informant coverage through the above

informants as well as through file reviews to ascertain

whether informants furnishing information in the past will

be of assistance under this program to furnish accurate

information concerning GIANCANA's movements, associates,

and activities.

In addition, background and current

data regarding thos persons contacting the subject

is being obtained, with a view of interviewing them for

the purpose of developing them as PCIS.

INFORMANTS

T-l is PCI

who furnished

information to SA JOHN R. PHILLIPS, Jr. on 5/11/56.

T-2 is Records of Central Investigation Bureau, New

York City Police Department, a New York City investigative agency.

T-3 is NY 169-C.

T-4 is CG 6215-C who furnished information to SA ROBER1

L. BAKER on 9/11/58.

The "prominent Chicago gambler" referred to

Dy this informant is JOE EPSTEIN, well-known and powerful Chicaro

gambler.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 22 -

OTHER 4

7e5-19008

NW 45792 DocId: 32307305

Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 92-349

INFORMANTS (cont.)

T-5 is IRVING HORNSTEIN, who was contacted by SAs

BENJAMIN G. HELSEL, Jr. and BRADNER C. RIGGS on 8/4/58.

T-6 is FRANK G. ANGER, President, Chicago National

Bank, contacted by SA FRANK L.

MELLOTT on 10/9 and 10/58.

I-7 iS STANLEY FLETCHER, Vice-President and Secretars

chicago National Bank, contacted by SA FRANK L. MELLOTT on 10/9/58.

Chicago National

Bank,

T-6, 7, and 8 were interviewed jointly, at their

request, due to the sensitive nature of trust agreements.

T-9 is PCI

contacted 9/30/58,

bY SA FRANK K. MELLOTT

T-10 is CG 6231-C contacted 8/17,19, and 20/58, by

SA RAYMOND A. CONNOLLY.

T-Il is RICHARD SINCLAIR, Investigator, Senate

Select Committee.

T-12 is

who was contacted by SA FRANK

L. MELLOTT on 9/10,

22 and 10/6/58.

OTHER 4

и

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 23 =

298-10868

NW 45792 DocId: 32307305 Page 7

---

