# docid-32290258

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10205-10034

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-275

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/26/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ASSOC, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32290258

277

Page 1'

---

## Page 2

Releasgd under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 91-14-2017

DERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUL 2 61961

TELETYPI

Mr. Mohr-

Mr. Callahan-

Mr. Evans.

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. l'avel

Mr. Trotter_

Tele. Room-

Mr. Ingram_

Miss Gandy-

URGENT 7-26-68

7-40 PM CLM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-373/ 2P

Stop.

ANTIRACKETEERING

GUS ALEX, AKA, ARO DAILY SUMMARYO

CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C ADVISED THAT EDDIE VOGEL IS A VERY

IN-

FLUENTIAL PERSON AT THE FIRST COMMERCIAL BANK LOCATED ON THE NORTH

SIDE OF CHICAGO. VOGEL IS A CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF ALEX AND ALEX IS ON

VOGEL/S PAYROLL FOR THE AJAX PHONOGRAPM CO. AND DELUXE CIGARETTE

SERVICE AT A SALARY FOR NINETEEN SIXTY OF TWENTY SIX THOUSAND FIVE

HUNDRED DOLLARS. INFORMANT ADVISED THAT HE HAD TALKED TO BANK OFFICIALS

OTHER

PRESIDENT OF THE BANK AND THESE OFFICIALS ADVISED HIM

THAT

EQUENTLY COMES TO THE BANK ESPECIALLY ON SAT.. AFTERNOONS

WITH

CHALADON, CHAUFFEUR FOR ALEX, AND ROCCO POTENZO, CLOSE.

SAM GIANCANA, AT WHICH TIME THESE PERSONS MOVE AROUND

THE BABY AS THOUGH THEY QUOTE OWNED IT UNQUOTE. INFORMANT STATED THAT

THEY SIT IN THE OFFICES OF THE PRESIDENT AND THAT THE BANK EMPLOYEES

APPEAR TO BE: FRIGHTENED BY THESE INDIVIDUALS.

INFORMANT STATED

THAT HE HAD RECENTLY CONFERRED WITH GEORGE BIEBER, ATTORNEY FOR THE

FIRM' OF BIEBER AND BRODKIN, BOTH OF WHOM REPRESENT INTEREST OF ALEX

AND OTHER CHICAGO. HOODLUMS AND THAT BUEBER HAS PESONALLY PULSED

END PAGE ONE

REC 10

112 JUL 31 1968

5 DAUG 2

198F 44

DocId: 32290258 Page 2

---

