# docid-32210665

## Page 1

..

Date: 08/12/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

WC

179-40003-10120

RECORDS SERIES

08:

NUMBERED COMMISSION DOCUMENTS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO :

TITLE

DATE

: 03/18/64

PAGES

7

SUBJECTS :

DEMOHRENSCHILDT, GEORGE

DEMOHRENSCHILDT, JEANNE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: U

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : / /

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

P. 4-8, 13-14; TWO COPIES OF PAGES 5-8; BOX F01

#777A

[R]

-------

- ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

30329

DocId: 32210665

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LA 100-17448

file reflects that LILIA PARDO LARIN, nee LILIA CAMARGO, born

May 19, 1906, Mexico D.F., entered the United states at san

Ysidro, California, on March 3, 1901.

She had Mexican Passport

No. 15259, Issued by the Mexican Foreign Office April 29, 1960,

to expire

April 28, 1962. She entered the United States as a

non-quota

0-1 immigrant.

LILIA PARDO LARIN was sponsored by her son, ALFREDO

ALVAREZ LARIN, who then resided at 3276 B Street, San Diego,

California. ALFREDO LARIN filed an affidavit of support for

his mother on September 7, 1960.

He was then employed as a

building designer for George Lykos - A.I.A. Architect, Spreckels

Building, First and Broadway, San Diego, California.

ALFREDO

LARIN has

Alien Registration No. 7135679, and was admitted

to the United States as a permanent resident on January 31,

1950, at Houston, Texas.

The INS file concerning LILIA PARDO LARIN reflects

the following residence addresses during 1961: 3532 Herbert

Street, San Diego, California, and 3334 Altadena Avenue, San

Diego, California. In 1961 ALFREDO LARIN resided at the

first address above and JOSE ANTONIO LARIN resided at the

second address above.

This file reflects that in September, 1940, LILIA

PARDO DE GUASCO filed an application to extend

the time of

temporary stay in the United States. On this form, she listed

a relative, LOUIS RODRIGUEZ, Minister for Mexico,

Vichy, France.

At this time she listed as her husband one GEORGE GUASCO,

Vichy, France.

This INS file reflected a photograph of LILIA PARDO

DE LARIN dated November 4, 1961.

This file reflected no

residence address for LILIA PARDO DE LARIN for the years 1962

or 1963.

IA I-2 furnished two letters dated October 17, 1942

/and October 30, 1942, from LILIA PARDO LARIN, Dickens 42,

Edificio San Luis, Apartment 202, Polanca, MexiCo D.f•, to

GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDI, 950 Park Avenue, New York City. LA I'-2

advised that these letters had been translated to the English

Language. These letters are quoted as follows:

- 4 -

NH 50529 DocId: 32210665 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 100-17448

"October 17, 1942

"My Adored Turrocckka:

"I received your letter from Washington and the one

you wrote me when you returned to New York.

I received them

today, and one bears the date of the 7th, thus it took 10 days

when it should have taken 3 at the most, it is a scandal and a

shame. But we can only tolerate the law of the stronger. I

have received notices from Washington and they are very

pessimistic. It seems there have been persons who have made

declarations against you and have sworn, Gringo style, to their

declarations.

Also they do not forget your expressions and

opinions, that you have foolishly and unwittingly made so

many times in public.

And It seems that all of those personages,

high personages, to whom you used to say you were related, have

said these were your lies, and that they deny being your

relatives even remotely, nor do they even care for being your

friends. How much I regret this life of mine and the bad part

Is I do

not know 1f it will have a solution or when. I do not

know what to say or to whom to turn.

"I am completely certain that the friends whom I have

trusted the arranging of this matter are true friends of mine

and that they have done with complete sincerity and interest

all that is necessary.

You already see how I was able

obtain your permit to enter Mexico, when there exists a

Presidential Decree strictly prohibiting the entry (to Mexico)

of all European aliens. But the matter of Washington is beyond

my reach and only you, asking for a conscientious investigation

and asking them to clarify your situation, only you can get

something.

If you continue patiently enduring your situation

in the United States then detained you are. Now that they will

not let you leave there, you are playing the part of a coward

or culprit.

Firmly demand that they show you what gives them

the right to treat

you thus, and if they do not have the right

that they let you leave that country and let you go wherever

you please. It seems that neither do they like your economic

situation,

that is to say that you do not receive income from

employment business and naturally the poor things cannot obtain

from you the corresponding taxes. I think that is the only

reason for they do not have the

right, nor is it their business,

- 5 -

HN 50529 DooId: 32210665

Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA 100-17448

"If your income 1s from practicing the noble profession of

gigo1o or hiring yourself as a Sodomist. I am sad and furious,

and disconcerted. I could come to join you there or at least

we could spend some two or three months together. From the

Embassy (Mexican in Washington) they will give me telephonically

the visa and airplane priority. This they have promised me

formally, but unfortunately my economic situation at the present,

what with the construction of the house and the payment I have

just made for the College will not permit me to be able to make

the trip to spend a few months with you, something which I

desire with all the forces of my body and sould, and which would

make me very happy: But I am seeing if soon they pay me a

mortgage, and my adored if I have a little money I will go to

give you all my life in my kisses.

If you could see how unhappy

I feel. I cry so much thinking that even the 'Morito' has

the happiness of being with you, unless in his ignorant brutality

he should know the happiness he

has, and of which I am so

cruelly deprived. I kiss you a thousand times, adored, write

and love me.

L111a"

"Mexico - October 30, 1942

"Adored Love of Mine:

"Yesterday, or better said, early this morning, I

spoke to you, I got up from bed to speak to you and returned

to bed crying like a little girl. Ilfe of mine,

cannot physically stand your absence, I feel that my flesh 18

flesh of your flesh, and it is a cruel agony to live without

you. My adored one, light of my eyes, I want you desperately,

and each time more.

really I do not know what to do.

While you tell me

that you

are a true little man, strong and virile and wise, to make your

little woman turn (or go) crazy when you make her yours, I

cannot give you pleasure having a little son, now for as I told

-6 -

50529 DocId: 32210665 Page 4

---

## Page 5

LA 100-17448

"you yesterday, you cannot do this by correspondence, neither

by telephone.....luckily.

Do you know that Dr. Arvizu's wife

died last night, at the moment of having her first chila, after

eight years of being married. I think that is what might

happen to me, but no matter,

life of mine, what better proof

could I give

you of my love, than to die for you, suffer unto

death?

"My adored one, when you have the money for me, please

deposit it in the Bank of Julio Beache on Wall Street, deposit

it in my name, telling them to communicate by direct wire with

the Leishman Bank here in Mexico, and put at my disposal here,

immediately,

the amount that you deposited there, that way I

can receive

it the same day.

"You know, that you should not be surprised that the

ambassador does not answer you, nor will he answer you, I will

explain later the reasons, but two or three days ago, I sent

him a letter, like the ones I can write when I want to, and I

am certain that I am going to make him ashamed of his conduct,

after all he offered me here. In the first place, I am certain

that Duhart has influenced him with his black opinion of you

that he has, I do not know why, and in the second place there

are certain personal and egotistical motives that make him act

like a fool, like there was nothing he could do to arrange 1t.

I do not think that they will giver you a permit to leave, but

I again insist that you do not need it. If you accept my

suggestion, which I assure you is a good one, for I have all

my documents in order, the line of conduct you should take is

to go to the Mexican Consulate, that they may give you documents

to enter here and calmly leave the United States.

Several

persons in the

needed this departure permit, but they told you this only to

cause you trouble and

complications, for they know very well

that they are not going to give it to you and want to

laugh at

you, when you ask for this permit to refuse you, when they know

perfectly well that you can leave the United States without

needing this permit. In any case, the Polish Ambassador should

complain as to why and with what right they are detaining you

there.

-7-

H# 50529

DocId: 32210665 Page 5

---

## Page 6

LA 100-17448

"I do not believe, life of mine, that you have worked

on these people with the energy that you should have. You

should cause a real scandal for all of these unjustified

abuses that they have made you a victim of, and I believe that

sooner or later you should make them pay dearly, all of the

money, time, reputation and even health,

that they are making

you lose with their stupidities, fear and petty vengeance.

"Beautiful baby, several days have passed without

receiving a letter from you, and I do not like it at all, that

the two times I have talked

to you, you have not arrived until

four or five in the morning. With whom were you out so late?

Iife of mine, if I knew that you wanted or caressed another

woman, I would die of sorrow.

Save yourself for me, little

love, you know well that nobody but me knows how to appreciate

the value of your kisses, the sweet strength of your arms and

the loving lok of your eyes. Save yourself for me, as I

save,

even to the slightest breath, for you. A kiss from your,

Lilia

"p. S. About errand you have for me about the money, please,

ask in other places also. Even though your friends

gave you the price of $4500.00 you should ask other

people, because in these times I think you can hope

for at

least $1500.00 more. It is insured for

$6000.00.

Make the insurance company pay the breakage,

because when I insured them they were perfect."

1N 50529

DooId:32210665

Page

---

## Page 7

FD -302 (Rev. 1-25-60)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGA

N

Date _

3/16/64

IA T-4 advised he met GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT fOr

the first time about 1942 at the home of R. LEE BLAFFER In

Houston;

Texas. Mr. BLAFFER was one of the founders of the

Humble 0il Company and in the 1940s made a practice of enter-

taining Interesting and unusual people. MOHRENSCHILDT was

a professor of geology at the University of Texas sometime

during the 1940s and it is possible that he was with the

University at the time that LA I-4 met him.

LA I-4 and MOHRENSCHILDT became good friends, primarily

because of their mutual interest in women, and saw each other

frequently in Houston from about 1942 to about 1946. They

were also involved together in "

"one shot o1l deals"

in Wyoming

attalban 14 urine went to Allent Weathe a are never

partners.

1946 to about 1950 when LA I-4 left Abilene, MOHRENSCHILDT:

came to Abilene frequently on business, although he never lived

there permanently. During these visits MOHRENSCHILDI often

visited at a cottage owned by LA I-4 on a lake near Abilene

where they sometimes entertained girl friends.

After leaving

Abilene and returning to Dallas, LA I-4 was visited. by MOHREN-

SCHILDI several times a year, up until about November, 1962:

At that time MOHRENSCHILDT called LA T-4 stating that he had

some interesting pictures which he and his wife had made

while walking from Mexico City to Panama and to South

America.

He invited LA T-4 to the Annual Ball of the

Petroleum Club of Dallas. By his tone of voice, LA I-4

let Mr. MOHRENSCHILDT know that he was not interested in.

seeing him at any time. He has not seen or heard from

MOHRENSCHILDI since that time.

MOHRENSCHILDT told LA I-4 that his father was a

baron from Sweden and his name was originally VON MOHRENSCHILDT.

MOHRENSCHILDI changed his name to DE MOHRENSCHILDI during World

War II. One of MOHRENSCHILDI's brothers was very close to

ADOLE HIILER at one time, but was later executed by the HITlER ?.:

regime. Another brother is a professor at Dartmouth University.

- 13 -

On -

3/11/64

at

_ File #

Los Angeles 100-17448

_ Date dictated

3/11/64

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

14 50529

DooId:32210665

Page 7

---

## Page 8

LA 100-17448

MOHRENSCHILDT has been married at least four times.

The first three times he married women of means, but never

seemed to have any real love for any of them.

He was very

interested sexually in the daughter of one of his wives.

His present wife is a white Russian from China. LA I-4 knows

nothing regarding her beliefs or convictions.

His mother was a "pure white Russian" who died

early. MOHRENSCHILDT spent a considerable amount of his

youth in Russia.

During their Abilene days especially, LA I-4

and MOHRENSCHILDI discussed politics frequently.: LA I-4

stated,

"There is no doubt concerning the strong pro-communist

convictions of GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT. "

He is an opportunist

and without moral scruples.

He has contempt for the American

way of life and for capitalism and has stated that he appreciates

the security derived from a communist government. After one

of these discussions in Abilene, LA I-4 told MOHRENSCHILDT

that if the United States ever

would get a gun and "take care"does to war with Russia, he

of MOHRENSCHILDT.

MOHRENSCHILDT

merely laughed. In reply to a question by LA T-4, MOHRENSCHILDI

stated that if

this country is ever invaded by Russia, he

would have a very good chance of coming into a top position

with the Russians.

Because of IA T-4's personal convictions concerning

MOHRENSCHILDT, he declined to sponsor MOHRENSCHILDT.

for

citizenship in this country when requested by MOHRENSCHILDT.

AlSo LA I-4 alluded to MOHRENSCHILDI's pro-communist belieis

and convictions when talking to MOHRENSCHILDT up until the

activity, but considers him intellectually shallow and

incapable of originating or executing a complicated scheme.

- 14 -

1N 50529

DocId: 32210665 Page 8

---

## Page 9

LA 100-17448

"October 17, 1942

"I received your letter from Washington and the one

you wrote me when you returned to New York. I received them

today, and one bears the date of the 7th, thus it took 10 days

when It should have taken 3 at the most, It is a scandal and a

shame. But we can only tolerate the law of the stronger. I

have received notices from washington and they are very

pessimistic. It seems there have been persons who have made

declarations against you and have sworn, Gringo style, to their

declarations.

Also they do not forget your expressions and

opinions, that you have foolishly and unwittingly

many times in public. And it seems that all of those personases,.

high personages, to whom you used to say. you were related, have

said these were your lies, and that they

deny being your

relatives even remotely, nor do they even care for being your

friends.

How much I ragret this life of mine and the bad part

1s I do not know if it will have a solution or when. I do not

"klow what to say or to whom to turn.

"I am completely certain that the friends whom I have

trusted the arranging of this matter are true friends of mine

and

that they have done with complete sincerity and interest

all that is necessary. You already see now I was able to

obtain your permit to enter Mexico, when there exists a

Presidential Decree strictly prohibiting the entry (to Mexico)

of all European aliens. But the matter of Washington 1s beyond

my reach and only you, asking for a conscientious investigation

and asking them to clarliy your situation, only you can get

something.

If you continue patiently enduring your situation

In the United States then detained you are. Now that they will

not let you leave there, you are playing the part of a coward

or culprit. Firmly demand that they show you what gives them

the right to treat you thus, and if they do not have the right

that they let you leave that country and let you so wherever

you please. It seems that neither do they like your economic

situation, that 1s to say that you do not receive income fron

employment business and naturally the poor things cannot obtain

fron you the corresponding taxes. I think that is the only

reason for they do not have the right, nor 1s it their business,

N 50529 DocId: 32210665 Page 9

- 5: -

---

## Page 10

LA 100-17448

"If your income 1s from practicing the noble profession of

81g010 or hiring yourself as a Sodomist. I

am sad and furious,

and disconcerted.. I could come to join you there or at least

we could spend some two or three months together.

Embassy (Mexican in Washington) they will give me telephonically

the visa and airplane priority. This they have promised me

formally, but unfortunately my economic situation at the present,

what with the construction of the house and the payment I have

just made for the college will not permit me to be able to make

the trip to spend a few months with you, something which I

desire with all the forces of my body and sould, and which would

But I am seeing if soon they pay me a

mortgage, and my adored if I have a little money I will go to

give you all my life in my kisses. If you could see how unhapcy

I feel. I cry so much thinking that even the 'Morito nas

the happiness of being with you, unless in his ignorant brutality

he should know the happiness he has, and of which I am so

cruelly deprived. I kiss. you a thousand times, adored, write

me and love me.

- October 30, 1942

"Adored Love of Mine:

"Yesterday, or better said, early this morning, I

spoke to you, I got up from bed

to speak to you and returned

to bed crying llke a little girl. Life of mine, I now cannot,.

cannot physically stand your absence, I feel that my flesh 1s

flesh of your flesh, and 1t 1s a cruel agony to live without

you.: My adored one, light of my eyes, I want you desperately,

and each time more.

"Baby mine, I am now ready to have a son by my

wonderful man that you

are, but yesterday over the telephone

you asked me this with

such seriousness and urgency, that

really I do not know what to do.

While you tell me that you

are a true little man, strong and virile and wise, to make your

little woman turn (or g0) crazy when you make her yours, I

cannot give you pleasure having a little son, now for as I told

- 6 -

HN 50529 DocId:32210665 Page 10

---

## Page 11

LA 100-17448

"you yesterday, you cannot do this by correspondence, neither

by telephone.... luckily. Do you know that Dr.

wife

died last night,

at the moment of having her first child, after

eight years of being married. I think that 1s what might

happen to me, but no matter,

life of mine, what better proof

could I give you of my love, than to die for you, suffer unto

death?

"My adored one, when you have the money for me, pleass

deposit it in the

on Wall Street, deposit

1t in

my name, telling them to communicate by direct wire with

the

, and put at my disposal here,

Immediately, the amount that you deposited there, that way I

can receive it the same day.

"You know, that you should not be surprised that the

ambassador does not answer you, nor will he answer you, I will

explain later the reasons, but

two or three days ago, I sent

him a letter, like the ones I can write when I want to, and I

am certain that I am going to make him ashamed of his conduct,

after all he offered me here.

In the first place, I am certain

that

"has influenced him with his black opinion of you

that he has, I do not know why, and in the second place there

are certain personal and egotistical motives that make him act

like a fool, llke there was nothing he could do to arrange 1t=:

I do not think that they will giver you a permit to leave, but

I again Insist that you do not need it. If you accept my

suggestion, which I assure you is a good one, for I have all

my documents in order, the line of conduct you should take 1s.

to go to the Mexican Consulate, that they may give you documents.

to enter here and calmly leave

the United States.

Several

persong in the same circumstances as you, have lately done this,

so heed my advice.

Naturally in Washington they told you you

needed this departure permit,

but they told you this only to

cause you trouble and complications, for they know very well

that they are not going to give It to you and want to laugh at

you, when you ask for this permit to refuse you, when they know

perfectly well that you can leave the United States without

needing this permit.

In any case, the Polish Ambassador should

complain as to why and with what right they are detaining you

there.

-7.-

HH 50529 DocId:32210665 Page 11

---

## Page 12

LA 100-17448

"I do not believe, life of mine, that you have worked

on these people with the energy that you should have.

You

should cause a real scandal for all of these unjustified

abuses that they have made you a victim of, and I belleve

that

sooner of later you should make them pay dearly, all of the

money, time, reputation and even health, that they are making

you lose with their stupidities, fear and petty vengeance:

"Beautiful baby, several days have passed without

the two times I have talked to you, you have not arrived unti

the two E

receiving a letter from you, and I do not like it at all, that

four or five in the morning. With whom were you out so late?

Life of mine, if I knew that you wanted or caressed another

woman, I would die of sorrow.

Save yourself for me, lIttle

love, you know well that nobody but me knows how to appreciate

the value of your kisses, the sweet strength of your arms and

the loving lo0k of your eyes. Save yourself for me, as

• I save,

even to the slightest breath, for you. A kiss from

your,

"P.S. About errand you have for me about the money, please,

ask in other places also. Even though your

friends

gave you the price of $4500.00 you should ask other

people, because in these times I think you can hope

for at least $1500.00 more. It is insured for

$6000.00.

Make the insurance company pay the breakage,

because when I insured them they were perfect.".

1W 50529

DocId: 32210665

Page 12

8

---

