# docid-32338107

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/17/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90140-10064

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 100-48779-87

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

PAPICH

TO :

LALLIER

TITLE:

DATE: 02/27/1961

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

ROBERTO ARIAS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

I DocId: 32338107

4

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

7992

741 UsC 2107

Hot

_ "GNITED"STATES GOVERS

MENT

Memorandom

TO

: Mr. L'Allier

FROM

:S. J. Papic

DATE: February 27, 1961

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLARE ISATION AND/OR,

RELENGE 0F CIA INFORMATION

AN THIS DOCUMENT IP 3/19/98

Tolson

Parsons

Mohr _

Belmont

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans

Malone

Rosen -

Tavel -

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram .

Gandy -

SUBJECT: ROBERTO

ARIAS (5

INTERNAL SECURITY - PANAMA

The following information was furnished to the Liaison

Agent on February 24, 1961, by Mrs. Jane Roman, Central Intelligence

Agency (CIA).

CIA has received information indicating that the subject

currently Panamanian Ambassador to Great Britaing allegedly isCo,

collaborating with_the Castro Government. CIA further has been

informed that AriaS arrived in New York City on or about February 1,LS.

1961, and that he eventually was traveling to Miami.

Mrs. Roman stated that in view of the above allegation,

CIA is most interested in receiving any information which might

be developed by the Bureau concerning subject's activities and

travel in the United States.

If he has departed the United States

CIA would like to be apprised of any available data pertaining to

his travel itinerary.

CLA

assumes that subject is traveling with a diplomatic

passport.

ACT ION:

INFO

mEMo.

STATE DEPT

Pore 6/25/88

The above information is being directed to the attention

of the Nationalities Intelligence Section.

SJP: ban

(5)

Mr. Donahoe

-

-

Mr. Little

classified

566434

Liaison

Declassity on

1

Mr. Papich

8/26/93

Classified Say 9803, res/sel

точ

(JAK)

ALL INFORNATION CONTAINEL

HEREIN 1S UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

(a)

1160-48-179-817

(S)

7/23/98

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

IS: MAR 14 1361

3/3/61

AWk: gp

SECRET

soberte

+64-4677196

DocId: 32338107 Page 2

---

