# docid-32300075

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10226-10355

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-258

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

•TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

06/12/1961

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, ASSOC, TRA, NY, PARK SHERATON HOTEL, FGJ

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4; 10(a)2

Redact

01/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

393

HH 15792

DocId: 32300075

Page 1

Date:

5/7/2015

Released under the John

f. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NW 45792 Date:

11-16-2017

---

## Page 2

FEDESAR SORLAJ GP 26.2A GANON

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUN 12 1961

TELES

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. DeLoathy

Mr. Evanse

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen_

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room...

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy-

URGENT 6-12-61 7-15

PM CLM

TO DIRECTOR,: FBI 192-3171/

FROM SAG, CHICAGO / 92-349/ 2P

'ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED.

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATEY-20-84_BYSP5RJ6

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

YOU WERE PREVIOUSLY ADVISED OF THE FACT THAT ERNEST INFELICE, AMERICO

'DIPIETTO AND FRANK GALLO, OF SO CALLED QUOTE NORTH AVENUE STEAK

HOUSE GANG END QUOTE, WERE IN NEW YORK CITY JUNE THREE LAST, PURPOSE

UNKNOWN. NEW YORK OFFICE ADVISED THAT INVESTIGATION REVEALS INFELICE,

GALLO AND DIPIETTO WERE REGISTERED IN ROOM FOURTEEN SIXTY ONE AND TWO,

PARK SHERATON HOTEL, NEW YORK CITY, JUNE TWO LAST, AND ANTICIPATED

DE FARTURE, NEW YORK CITY, JUNE FOUR LAST. HOTEL RECORDS INDICATE

MODE OF TRAVEL OF THESE INDIVIDUALS AS BY AUTOMOBILE. FURTHER INVEST-

IGATION BEING UNDERTAKEN BY NEW YORK CITY TO ASCERTAIN REASONS FOR

ADVISED JUNE ELEVEN LAST THAT

TEJA BESENCE MAR TEA NOTES TROT CE SOUR PUT PUS CARAS

REC SiZE ASCERTAINED RECENTLY PAS

HAS BEEN SPENDING A GREAT DEAL OF TIME

DURING RECENT PAST IN NEW

YORK CITY, REASON UNKNOWN TO THE INFORMANT JUN NS 1961

INFORMANT HAS HAD NO

END PAGE ONE

82 JUN 19 1968 °

: HH 45792 DooId:32300075 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

FURTHER CONTACT WITH GIANCANA OR DOMINICK BLASI. JUDITH CAMPBELL,

LOS ANGELES, WAS INTERVIEWED AT LOS ANGELES AND ADVISED

THAT SHE MET GIANCANA ABOUT FIFTEEN MONTHS AGO AT THE FONTAINEBLEU

HOTEL, MIAMI BEACH, FLAO, UNDER THE NAME OF SAM FLOOD. SHE HAS

SEEN HIM THREE OR FOUR TIMES SINCE. SHE QUOTE RAN INTO GIANÇANA

END QUOTE ON. THE STREET IN NEW YORK CITY A SHORT TIME AGO, BUT

WOULD NOT ELABORATE ON THIS• SHE DECLINED TO FURNISH ANY FURTHER

INFO CONCERNING THE IDENTITIES OF THE INDIVIDUALS WHO INTRODUCED HER

TO GIANCANA. MISS CAMPBELL WAS FORMERLY WITH JERRY LEWIS PRODUCTIONS,

HOLLYWOOD, AND IS. NOW A FREE LANCE ARTIST. DEPARTMENTAL ATTORNEY

ROBERT J. ROSTHAL ADVISED THIS DATE THAT SUBPOENA FOR

FOR FGJ, CHICAGO, HAS BEEN ISSUED RETURNABLE

JUNE SIXTEEN NEXT.

FURNISHED TO MR. ROSTHAL FOR PRESENTATION

TO GRAND JURY THIS DATE. NOTED THAT THIS GRAND JURY INVESTIGATION IS

IN RELATION TO THE MATTER INVOLVING

CHICAGO. U INVESTIGATION CONTINUING. ARMED AND

JFK Law 10(a)2

DANGEROUS.

T

93-3171-258

HH 45792

DooId:32300075 Page 3

---

