# docid-32302339

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

- AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10281-10059

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-192307-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/30/1969

6

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

MAB, ASSOC, ACA, MM

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

• RESTRICTIONS :

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

y9.1

HT 54463

DocId: 32302339

Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MEY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

• - UNITED STATES GOT

NMENT

Memorandum

FROM

SUBJEC

Ench,

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

JUL 3 0 1969

LANC, MEANT 1205-17958) (9A HAS NO OBJECTOR TO TULATIAL

FD-217

8-4-6p7 nig

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

UNKNOWN SUBJECT; CUBAN

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

EXILE GROUP FORMED BY

IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM

6-18-97

JOSE M. MACIAS AND OTHER

MEMBERS OF BRIGADE 2506

# 211,326

IS - CUBA; NM

Grassified by Sp8 Bi Jael

(00: Miami)

Declassity on: OAK

(5668510/GC 115/95-JFK)

Re Miami letter and LHM dated 4/9/69.

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of an

LHM setting out additional information concerning the

development of the above-mentioned group.

The

LHM is

MM 974-S.

LMI248-S7P

32 he seda can source entone in the

The Government agency mentioned is U. S

Coast

Guard, Miami,

which information was furnished to the Miami

Office by NED SPROUL.

Copies of this LHM have been disseminated

locally to the following:

10-11-97

copies made INS; Miami

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD/SR

74441-3

3/10/28JS6/AZCIA,

Miami

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

U. S: State Department (Cuban Affairs),

JFK

Wiami

requert 12/22/22

U. S. Coast Guard, Miami

U. s.

Customs, Miami and Region II, Miami

U.

S. Border Patrol,

Miami

d)

NISO, 6th ND, Charleston, S.

C.

AIL INSORZATION CONTAINED

OSI, Patrick

Air Force Base, Florida

ADAEN 15 JUELANS DIED

U.

S. Secret Service,

Miami

111th M.I.

soup, orlando, Florida

OTHERWISE

2,

- Bureau CEnSUCHOSURE

Miami

REC-73

105-192307.2

WMD: s11

(3)

ate/CIA/Scoret Service/RA0...

EX-100

12 AUG. 1 1969

Army/Navy/air lorod/DIA/Customs/Coast Guard

Coordinator or Cubon Arrairs, State

By R/S For

Info

6 12 9800-88

169

F010-109-01

LATIN

Bay U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan ONFIDENTiAt

NW 54463 DooId: 32302339

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-17958

CONFIDENTIAL

Miami will continue to follow the activities

of this group through MM 1248-s ](e)

-2-

CONFIDENTIAL

HH 54463

DocId: 32302339

Page 3

---

## Page 4

$1.1:t

CUBAN EXILE GROUP FORMED BY

JOSE M. MACIAS AND OTHER

MEMBERS OF BRIGADE 2506

CONF

The source advised on April 28, 1969,h that

JOSE MACIAS said that MANUEL ARTIME had

secured the release

of his boat from United States Customs, but MACIAS: made no

mention as to whether he had recovered

the money paid by

the MACIAS group to ARTIME for that boat.

MACIAS also

mentioned that they had ordered two 350 horsepower engines

but that it

would be some time before they could expect

delivery. @ /M)

On May 8, 1969, information was furnished by

another Government

agency to the effect that Cuban boati

activity had been observed in the vicinity of Dog Rock in

the Bahama Islands.

One of the boats involved was identified

as the "Coral Reef,

"which is registered to one MANUEL FRANCO.

Two other boats identified

as being at Dog Rock were the

"Angelita" and the "Skippy." The "Skippy" is a 44-foot

Swift boat with a 67} GM diesel engine, registered to

ing registration FL 0907AE was being towed by the "Angelita"

and that this boat was registered to JOSE CHIRINO and that

JOSE M. MACIAS was aboard the boat.(m)

It is noted that the confidential source has

identified

MACIAS. (OL/(MUF CHIRINO as a member of the group of JOSE le

On May 14, 1969, the source advised that he had

attended a meeting of another anti-CASTRO group on May 13,

1969. At this meeting one "PAPITO," a member of the MACIAS

group, mentioned that JOSE MACIAS was again making plans

for some type of activity. (O\MI

On May 17,

1969, the

source advised that a

meeting of the MACIAs group had been held on the night

o1 May 16, 1969, at 1100 Southwest 10th Avenue. LIn

addition to JOSE M. MACIAS,

those in attendance included

Jesus Lopez and his son, JEsuS LOPEz,

unknown) CHeMIZO,

JR., (first name

"PACO" (last

unknown, and first

name unknown) MARTIN.

The discussion at this meeting

и)

-3 -

IAt

54463

DocId: 323

2339

Page 4

---

## Page 5

CUBAN EXILE GROUP FORMED BY

JOSE M. MACIAS AND OTHER

MEMBERS OF BRIGADE 2506

CONI

NTIAL

centered around plans of the group to establish

. a

newspaper.

They also considered joining the MACIAS

group with another organization known as "La Cruzada Pro

Liberacion de los Presos Cubanos" (Crusade for the Libera-

tion of Cuban Prisoners).

The source advised that JESUS

LOPEZ was connected with

this organization. JESUS LOPEZ

mentioned to CHEMIZO that they

could have machine gun

practice at his farm but there was no indication given

as to the whereabouts of the farm or whether machine guns

were available.

On May 28, 1969, the source advised that JOSE

MACIAS was planning

to hold a meeting of his group on that

date in order to discuss how they would proceed with their

plans for an infiltration mission. MACIAS indicated that

they were still looking for a suitable boat, so that imme-

diate action was apparently not planned. (*(M)

On June 3, 1969, the source reported that a

meeting of the MACIAS group had been held on May 28, 1969,

at 111 Northwest 20th Street, Miami. This is a Pure 01l

gasoline station which is owned by a Cuban known only as

"EL CHINO."

During the meeting, it was learned that the

MACIAS group had named a new instructor, who was identified

only as (first name unknown) COLLAZO.

COLLAZO was with

Cuban exile Brigade 2506 in Guatemala in 1961 and prior

to leaving Cuba, was in the Army Engineers. In Florida

he is employed

in construction work and is

considered an

expert in demolition.

During the meeting, COLLAZO was

asked by (first name unknown) CASANOVA if he could make.

a bazooka, to which COLLAZO replied that he could not.

At the meeting,

"PAPITO" was observed carrying a stick

of dynamite estimated to be three feet long and about

three inches in diameter. The source did not learn

what disposition was made of this dynamite. elM!

In June 16, 1969, a second source, who is

acquainted with the activities of the principal anti

CASTRO groups in Miami, furnished information that the

anti-CASTRO group known

as Alpha 66 reportedly obtained

the use of a yacht named "Stelanie Till" which they were (M)

= 4 =

CONFI

XITIAL

NW 54463 DooId: 32302339

Page 5

---

