# docid-32272133

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/28/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10143-10329

RECORD SERIES:

CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

29-16-01

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

1

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NT 53080 Date:

CIA, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/01/2003

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 20

v9.1

HW 53080

DocId: 32272133 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Classification: -

SELREI

(This-form-is-to-be-used-for-material-extracted-

from CIA -controlled documents.)

May 9, 1943 Contact Repast

wuBRiNy/' paid that ke had encorenteied

cg at Waskington Mariness Cups CgE was extorte

to Chicage accompanied by Dearge de Molenschied

dechogh no explanatine was gueen. signed:

C. Frand Store

Fellas Paper Masked Secret June 21 1900.

Me. Muslin; Do talled to pay that Sasathy

Marlack had called to ixform his that

she had reached Ms. D. " that per instruction

Ms. A. waved pass wits for Motlack to Dalog

believed paid that fro

his andessation with her he leslieved

Marlack wanted to be cut in se thee

actinty & wanted to receive capies of

any disseminations.

2000053

Classification: DEERE

deck.

-Classified by derivation Keittenfole

HH 53080

DocId: 32272133 Page 2

---

