# docid-32303952

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10464

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

166-1237-10

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

hssassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 45733 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MALONE, ROBERT L.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/30/1965

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

BBR, ASSOC, SMITH, ROBERT, SUBPOENA, WITNESSES,

TESTIMONY, FGJ

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APRROVAL OF EOUSA, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

HT 45733

DocId: 32303952

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CG 166-308

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. 1. Will attempt tó ascertain

the current whereabouts of ERNASTINE LOGAN in

order

that she

may be served with a subpoena for appearance as a witness

before the Federal Grand

Jury.

2. Will attempt to identify additional witnesses

this matter and cause them to be interviewed.

3. Will follow and

report

results of prosecution.

ADM IN ISTRATIVE

The information obtained from the Geneva, Ohio

Telephone Company on April 13, 1965, was furnished

• by ANN

SPRAGUE, who has requested that her

identity be protected.

The information relating to telephone number YE22-2614

was furnished by CS CV-506-S.

It is recognized that the investigative period

of this report is somewhat lengthy; however,

this

case is

presently in the process of being presented

to the Federal

Grand Jury and the United States Marshal has been experiencing

difficulty in locating witnesses for service of subpoenaes,

and Assistant United States Attorney JAMES J. CASEY, who

has been handling the presentation,

has been

busy with other

matters and a tour of duty with the National Guard. All

investigative leads have been covered immediately and it is

felt that submission of an earlier report would have been

for status purposes only.

B*

COVER PAGE

Nts 123748-287

HH 45733

DocId: 32303952

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-2'04 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UN

ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF - STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to: I - USA, CHICAGO

Report of: ROBERT L. MALONE

Date:

7/30/65

Office:

CHICAGO

Field Office File #:

166-3087

Bureau File #:

166-1237

Title:

EILEEN CURRY;

FRANK C. TORNABENE;

TOMMY RIZZO;

SAM ELIA;

ROBERT SMITH

Character: INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION IN AID OF RACKETEERING - PROSTITUTION

Synopsis: AUSA presently presenting case to Federal Grand Jury (FGJ),

Chicago, with

now being considered an additional

defendant. EILEEN CURRY signed her statement regarding

her knowledge: this matter following conviction and three

year sentence in local court. Efforts by United States

Marshal to locate ERNASTINE LOGAN for service of subpoena

unsuccessful. Witnesses L

and

have testified before FGJ.

after being subpoenaed as witness, advised. through attorney

he would invoke Fifth Amendment.

_(Phonetic)

identified as potential corroborating witness.

Chicago

Police Department arrest record of SAM ELIA sét out. / FBI

Identification Record of FRANK C. TORNABENE set out.

Sub-

scribers to Ohio telephone numbers TO 1-7180, YE 2-2614,

932-2614, and 428-2718 identified and background information

furnished.

JEK Law 10(a)2

_p-

REVIEWED BY &ETJFK TASK FORCE

ON

6: 309 do

§PELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

166-123710

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 45733 DocId: 32303952 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 166-308

DETAILS: AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

On June 1, 1965, EILEEN CURRY appeared at the

office of Assistant

and identified a photograph of

United States Attorney JAMES J. CASEY

FRANK C. TORNABENE, FBI

Number 4 768 434, as being identical with

the FRANKIE ""'

who was

associated with her in a house of

Cleveland Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

prostitution. on

EILEEN CURRY on the same date advised that she

was convicted in Cook County Felony Court on June 28, 1965,

during a bench

trial as keeper of a house of prostitution

at 521 West Dickens Street, Chicago.

She stated she

received a three year prisónn sentence

.as a result of this

conviction which

she intends to appeal.

On the same date, EILEEN CURRY read and signed

the statement which she made to SAs AUGUST C. KEMPFF and

ROBERT L. MALONE on November 4, 1964.

Her signature on

this

statement was witness by SAs MALONE and MICHAEL G.

SIMON after Assistant United States Attorney CASEY advised

her

fully of her rights.

Miss CURRY advised that she is currently residing

in Apartment 1 at 1750 North Wells Street, Chicago, and her

telephone number there is 642-0904.

She related she would attempt to ascertain the

current whereabouts of ERNASTINE LOGAN in order that LOGAN

can be served with a subpoena to appear as a witness before

the Federal Grand Jury in Chicago.in connection with this

matter. It is to be noted

a subpoena issued for LOGAN

to appear before the Grand Jury was returned by the United

States Marshal's Office unserved when they failed to locate

her at her last known residence, 7259 South Constance,

Chicago.

On the same date, Mr. CASEY advised he had received

a telephone call from

advising that she

could be located care of

during the period of June 20

through July 4, 1965.

JEK Law 10(a)2

-2-

144-1237-10

5854

HH 45733 DocId:32303952 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 166-308

MC. CASEY further advised that

and

before. the Grand Jury..

de stated

was very cooperative

and he felt she would make an excellent trial witness.

appeared to be reticent and seemed

to not back on sonation in his subpoended

CASEY

related he had also caused

he received

word from

that he would

advise

to invoke the Fifth Amendment and refuse t

answer any questions. CASEY:

stated he had considered the

possibility of granting

immunity from prosecution

in exchange for his testimony

however, he has now decided

to seek an indictment against

as a defendant in this

who will corroborate

statement.

JEK Law 10(a)2

Assistant

United States Attorney CASEY further

related

who appeared before the Federal

Grand Jury earlier same date, told him that possibly a

prostitute named

_(Phonetic)

who worked

in her house of prostitution onl

Chicago,

would be able to furnish pertinent testimony in this matter.

According to

was recently arrested by the

East Cleveland,

Chio Police Department on a half a dozen

vice charges and that department would know her current

whereabouts.

On July 9, 1965, EILEEN CURRY telephonically

advised that she was

unsuccessful in her effort to ascertain

the current whereabouts of ERNASTINE LOGAN, however, ERNASTINE'S

brother who is employed at the Sahara North Motel would

probably be able to furnish an address for ERNASTINE.

On June 8, 1965, IC A. P. PALBICKE, Jr. caused

records maintained by the Chicago Police Department to be

searched for information identifiable with SAM ELIA, also

SAM CASH.

These records reflected as follows:

- 3 -

146-1237-10

58410495

NH 45733

DooId: 32303952 Page 5

---

