# docid-32173907

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

as twante

Identification Form

wuo..

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10178-10226

LO

175-DL-109-12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

SEE FBI 62-109060-8282X

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/24/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32173907

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

. FD-36 (Rev. 8-29-85)

TRANSMIT VIA:

Teletype

Facsimile

AIRTEL

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

_ Immediate

Priority

Routine

CLASSIFICATION: CONE

• TOP SECRET

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLAS EF TO

UNCLAS

Date 2/6/90

ENTIAL

1

2

3

5

6

7

=8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM : SAC, DALIAS (175A-109) (C)

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN F. KENNEDY:

PPSAKA

00: DALLAS

During the past eleven months, Dallas has conducted

an extensive review of the original assassination

investigation (DL 89-43) for information of additional lead

value.

publications, books,

In addition, extensive outside reading of articles,

prior to the

and government reports were reviewed

interview of CARLOS MARCELLO on 9/6/89. Nothing

in any Bureau report has provided any reasonable indication of

MARCELLO'S involvement in the captioned assassination, or that

he assisted OSWALD in the assassination. There have been

numerous outside publications theorizing a connection between

MARCELLO and the assassination, but none of these theories has

been able to provide substantive proof of MARCELLO'S

involvement.

MARCELLO was interviewed by Buagents on 9/6/89

at the FEDERAL MEDICAL CENTER (FMC), Rochester, Minnesota,

that he was "going to get

KENNEDY when he came to Dallas". As expected, MARCELLO denied

making these statements, as well as denying any involvement in

the assassination of President KENNEDY. MARCELLO denied

17

6-Bureau

(2-Legat, London)

2-Los. Angeles

18

2-Minneapolis

2-New Orleans

19

2-Dallas

20

(1-89-43)

(1-175A-109)

21

TEB/1dj

(14)

1314, 9805 RODEAT

-RED

OADR.

Approve

JFK

a-at

40175A DL- 109-12

SEARCHED.

INDEXED

SENALIZO KE

PLIDA M

90 MAR 1:90

LOAL ATIC

Transm

(Number)

(Time)

Per

CON

DocId: 32173907 Page 2

ENTIAI

---

## Page 3

Released under the. John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 175A-109

CONFIDENTIAL

knowing OSWALD OF OSWALD'S uncle, DUTCH MURRET. MARCELLO also

denied knowing EDWARD BECKER, or making a statement to BECKER

in 1962 about having President KENNEDY killed.

It was the opinion of the agents conducting the

interview of MARCELLO that he was clear and lucid at the time

of the interview, although he would, at times, ramble in a

disoriented manner, apparently attempting to get the interview

off track.

Employees at the FMC confirmed MARCELLO would at

times feign being disoriented for his own personal

convenience, but that at other times, he would legitimately be

disoriented. Based on this information, it would appear that

MARCELLO was legitimately disoriented on 2/27/89, thus making

the veracity of his statements suspect.

2/27/89, the New Orleans Division advised by teletype dated

3/15/89 that the former Chief of Police and current City

Councilman of New Orleans, JOSEPH GIARRUSO, had received a

phone call from an unidentified female caller with a British

accent.

The caller claimed to have worked part time for an

attorney in New Orleans for a period of two days some time

between 1966 and 1968.

This caller refused to identify

herself, but did provide a telephone number in England.

The

caller advised GIARRUSO that she remembered typing a letter

for the lawyer and that in the letter money was sent to the

mother of LEE HARVEY OSWALD and that a statement was made in

the letter concerning the KENNEDY assassination.

By

airtel dated 9/20/89 Legat, London, advised that

DEBORAH MILLINGTON had been interviewed at Brighton, England,

on 8/31/89, by representatives of NEW SCOTLAND YARD.

MILLINGTON admitted to being the individual who had called

GIARRUSO in March of 1989.

MILLINGTON provided a description

of the attorney for whom she had worked, as well as the

general location of his office. MILLINGTON claims to have

been interviewed as a potential witness in the trial of CLAY

The New Orleans Division, by airtel dated 10/3/89,

advised they had no information regarding MILLINGTON'S status

as a witness in the CLAY SHAW trial, nor did the information

she had provided concerning the location of the attorney's

2

Lo: 1759-02-409-12

CON-DENTIAL

DocId: 32173907 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 175A-109

CONFIDENTIAL

It should be noted that.

the above allegations by

MILLINGTON again place the sureau in the dilemma of bener (C

presented facts 25 years

after the event that can neither

confirmed nor discounted.

Dallas is of the opinion that no

additional investigation in this matter is warranted, in view

of the fact that this subsequent investigation was initiated™

based on statements made by MARCELLO while in a semi-coherent

state and that these statements were subseguently denied by

MARCELLO when interviewed.

In addition, volume upon volume of

investigation has previously been conducted by the Bureau, as

well as various Congressional sub-committees, and none of

these investigations has ever established a positive

connection between MARCELLO and the assassination.

Any

further pursuit of this investigation will merely give

appearance of self-doubt regarding the original and subsequent

investigations.

Accordingly, UACB, Dallas is closing DL 89-43

(the original KENNEDY assassination), as well as the current

investigation (DL 175A-109) relating to captioned matter.

3 *

+01 757-01-709-12

DocId: 32173907

Page 4

---

