# docid-32303832

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10284-10344

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-298

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note!.

Cased HM 45737 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/28/1961

7

ABR, ASSOC, B/F INT, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, RES, BKG,

LOANSHARKING

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS : INC LHM

19.1

HH 45737

369

DocId: 32303832

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

0 ÷ 5010-104

UNITED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum

DENTIAL

N: TO

Director, FBI (92-2717)

DATE:

8/28/61

FROM

SAC, Philadelphia (92-444)

SUBJECT:

ANGELO BRUNO, aka.

(00 - Philadelphia)

Declassary on:

$ 211,326

COOR a49

Enclosed herewith are 12 copies of a letterhead

memorandum pertaining to operations in the Dominican Republic

as relating to BERNARD ALLEN. NORMAN FROMKIN. JOSEPH MANGONE

and BEN GOLOB.

JEK Law 11(a)

it is requested that the Legal Attache,

vanada,

at the parent bank of the Royal Bank of Canada,

attemot to ascertain the following:

(*Ku)

8-298

Bureau (ENCIS. -12) (92-2717)

Philadelphia (92-444)

JAP OPSUB

3101

EXOPP

-0e1541

83

64 SEP 11 1961

REGA VIEWED BY /dFK TASK, FORCE

ON 2/22/586lal

feLaxos In FL

A MILLASE IN,

EJ TOTAL DEMAL

ON1/30/48.

5668500/GC

NW 45737 DocId: 32303832

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-444

4.

Attempt to obtain photostats of all of the

above-requested items, noting that this data would be of

utmost importance in successful prosecution of ANGELO

BRUNO for tax violations within the U.S.

In obtaining

such information, the correspondent bank cashing drafts

in the U.S. should be obtained so that these records

could be properly subpoenaed.

In this regara, the

First National Bank of Miami and the Chase National Bank

of New York are believed to be correspondent banks for

the Royal Bank of Canada.

to endeavor to obtain the above type of information from

these correspondent banks which will not, however, have as

of Canada.

In the Dominican Republic, if sources are presently

available, it is requested that GLADSTONE CUMBERHATCH be

cöntacted

• in the Dominican Republic for his knowledge of

the

payments listed in the enclosed letterhead memo, his willingness

to testify in this regard, and his complete knowledge of ANGELO

BRUNO, particularly his knowledge as to any investments, business

holdings, or financial transactions that involved ANGELO BRUNO. (8914)

fIf sources are available that can deal directly with

the branch of the Royal Bank of Canada in Cuidad, Trujillo,

it may be possible to short-cut efforts to obtain desired

information at the branch bank in the Dominican Republic

rather than through channels as outlined in the request

for the Legal Attache in Canada. Aft 1s to be noted that

ANGELO BRUNO

has been designated as target for

"early

prosecution" in the Bureau's Criminal Intelligence Program,

resulting in intensive investigative effort by the Bureau. (u)

An a reiter...

-

2

-

NW 45737 DocId: 32303832

Page 3

---

## Page 4

- Federal Bureau of Inuestigation

Uniten States Department of Justice

Philadelphia, PennsyIva EVANED BY WIFK TASK FORCE

August 28, 1961

ON

7122198-lak

L

FELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

ANGELO BRUNO

TOTAL DENIAL

ANGELO BRUNO (ANGELO BRUNO ANNALORO, true name)

resides 934 Snyder Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa.

BRUNO, a

derivative citizen of the

United States, according to

Passport #186 3135, Issued at Washington, D.C., December 29,

1959, was- born May

21, 1910,

at villaba, sicily, LtaLy.

and immigrated to the United States in May 1911. He holds

Certificate of Derivative Citizenship A-150 036, from his

father, MICHAEL BRUNO ANNALORO.

BRUNO married on January 29,

1932,

ASSUNTA BRUNO ANNALORO, nee. Maranca, better known as

SUE BRUNO.

ANGELO BRUNO had in his possession financial

reports on business transactions, during early 1961, of

Maquinas de Diversiones, C. por C. (Amusément Machines Inc.)•

It has been established

that this

company, 23 Isabel la

Catolica, Cuidad Injillo, Dominican Republic, is controlled

by BERNARD "BUCKY

ALIEN, residence address 45 Northwest

¡ Street, Miam Shores, Fla:

part owner of this

company is NORMAY FROMKIN, who resides In the Dominican

Republe. with permanent residence 27. Lacade Avenue,

T'renton, Node

Residence in the Dominican Republic is

claimed to be Hotel Embajador (Ambassador.

JFK Law 11(a)

@Foreigne

eater.

@ COPIES DESTROYED

893 MAY 17_1972

(SPSMACGEE - 1110194-J1767

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINER

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIRIED

DATE "/24/87

# 211,326

BY SPEBUA/GEL

92-2711-298

ENCLOSURE

NW 45737 DooId:32303832 Page 4

---

## Page 5

..."

JFK Law 11(a)

-2.

92-2717-298

NW 45737

DocId: 32303832

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Confidential sources have indicated that IRVING

CAREY was a front for ANGELO BRUNO in business ventures.

It has been alleged that he was a partner of BRUNO's in

a loansharking business

in the Miami, Fla., area.

charging usurious interest rates in a factoring business

in the Miami

area.

- 3 -

42-2717-298

45737

DocId: 32303832

Page 6

---

## Page 7

JEK Law 11(a)

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency: it

and its contents are

not to

be distribute

outside your agency•

-4-

912-2717-298

HH 45737

DocId: 32303832

Page 7

---

## Page 8

UNTTED STATES DEPARTMENT OF LUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

MOLTE TORNO ATENE SY EWEX VON TURCE

ON 7/22/9800

I RELEASE IN FULL

EN RELEASE IN PART

ED TOTAL DEMIAL

AanA00e, Cite pare)

pestica, 904 Esudor vento,

1n0m0, ta

derivative attiren of tho Intend Contes, seconting to

Pospost 1205 3135• Jenuad de Vochinoton, D.Cp Mediter 19g

1959%

vạo bong cry 21, 3920.

mod to te United States La lug 3921*

#e holdo

Conoificato of Dartvative Cleisente A-130 006, Fron hio

RECENNI SAUNO ANNASSNO

SUD SUONO,

• Bencer known ai

ARLO SHiO bad le ato poesoasion Aimanetal

авою по даурекозов. в. pow e (onsesano mackanes 3nо)•

10 mad boca casabiloned Chat tute

compory: 29 Xentel la

datolton, Custue trusito, Contatena Nepublog to ocetroaled

by BERNES FUCKE" ASCEN, postemnes addrens 49 Norchurot

Mans Shoros, Dia. A part car et this

Repubtte wich nemanant scaldonco 27 Tasse Mame,

Frenton, Hodo:

Residence

•La che contalous temono da

No Moto2 Dabander Aobossoder

JEK Law11 (a)

(SP8MAC (GCL-6/10/94-584)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEO

MEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1/24197 BY SP6B50/GCL

#211,326

92-2117-298

HH 45737 DocId:32303832 Page 8

---

