# docid-32392707

## Page 1

Date: 02/21/05

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10414-10123

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

• Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53320 Date:

06-26-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

: CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

NOTES ON KEY DOCUMENTS IN OSWALD FILE

DATE

01/01/1900

PAGES

:39-2.6

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

PAPER

UNCLASSIFIED

1B

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

08/25/98

JFK-RH07 : F130: 1998.08.25.10:53:30:840128 :

CORRECTED TO 38

PAGES VICE 27.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10414-10123

1H 53320

DooId: 32392707 Page 1

---

## Page 2

2220r 1463:

(l Report dated I March 1961. Title:

hee Howe, Brald, leg falue W. Zain,

Daclas Office the FBI, 10 mulered

pages. E this report is a disarbogical

account 7 bwal life from

Bert I lin defection A th. USSR and.

indicate lu sens contemp litruz

retunt the US. (We receiad tis

(a) Report dated fume 3, 1960, to the

office a Pacert 7 te desertio

ту брові

Sefers to Free Suri Cant 40.234

y 2 Nor 1957 and site, resti

an the case ard demos attention 1

Uh fort this tapts use

i need a da chi, one d

лсе this spot tir

1975)

HH 53320 DooId:32392707 Page 2

---

## Page 3

(ed Repent dated 10 gulz igh. Titte:

Dallas affic: 14 payin

Кого 1504.)

(al Report dates 31 Citati, 1962.

SA. Multa

"We recenied this by

letter from Tedga Arore one

9 March 1968)

HH 53320

DocId: 32392707 Page

3

---

## Page 4

Nit

1. CuicumansbionT FaeTs: fon Lut Sopt - 20 der 0f

se wn berndled as a wndts of ridiiong bro we

is botts Mesi and iis Hop. Aradhing wrs bg the beome

hringaimrrd@Mipiessntensbod@bnageov.co

TA bord. Ad OLH0

nigunteos (8° 04t) 545p

a Nany and FBl

1 сіріст і спан 2) Кити чи кл.

taid bbags crren,

Mipice Station eomepled it frwondung 1 L0

iduntificction On8 B0T (beoad ion Voisn entraegs

comd pu 161T)

wall, tey tooder trasdy schechet

th W352

nh ti en iamu the

was and nhratn t biliene Thes

perssa Acantfine

ling orree biter anpt nurde mery minit that bing.

L Canta tha n an sre a te anhie

cự hung ch mu hn h han hn thà h n Từ nghn

: midentifers nodiricud.

(8 bn d5 reply 5 Meri mu 117a, linacaria, itga, goure

Mus a concet decrgitars / 41e) 0 mhich

nas at dlear rounices with the desagitin d

te uihwntifés uidividinl mnd chacl leane

luca oufficient, utmall, a breado an

eviductiol crnnictios betiea, the tuo foot.

19) Myjes fetias terugle ashed by Ues. dil rst

pres or sunce in iduntifieatins o pallumy

Ma LH0 lufor the 2208 f Nar. Cre borate chee

lu hod stags, whrt lulend done, colesr la lad

annad ir ctiin lu tiad lft. NB: neitte, dis

HH

53320 DocId:32392707

---

## Page 5

19 Trough regunty 4 daico Fatins Gps. shed Os Na

Tor a plat CHI., hat did not perst and seee

a plato bepu tho zana.

(6) Musica Batro de not nestas de 10i Maia mitiant

witt it indien inter cgit (o7 0) and AS Sant) util

docrity .

(9) Minico Atras did mat math ite 1 deT comanze

und ai 15 Cit. mpunt f de Calear

Mupico retz. The niterd: A the midestes intividad-

compromiset tu speentions ni de losz vas,

Sign 20-401.

intriget:

NH 53320 DocId:32392707

---

## Page 6

taus

eils in the i and .

des boterucion which world hins per-

wittes there to bugt its trust fC

it sharo

Viz:

pistantes thurgs ter.

14 Patricto to ament le to

trested? I no then is als wers

to Revien des Clara Carso de las

(3) glasio Rajas Villeneure

HH 53320 Dold: 32392707 Page 6

---

## Page 7

md circumsent the bites beean and acting

leads affisting tensilse, inducking the Alwan

mates: at the stardiming point to two ate,

live is conor the precence o a rad header

(3) Abuvatino la Eliz, Cartet de Mass (Bety Morn)

тво Синя вистрнія,

Cubin trip for FVFC erg. 1840c02 - 21 for 1963

L's clution ship 5 FPEC asting is tetre muder.

can hu annaned that SPF Much Cabines Hems -

silves were more anone of what he win doing

them thing hense adultit

@ Casi 7 Oxo Contrera, ti Gin, Cras. Pergio

begins in May 1967 colate 5 440 Allegal

contest wet per-Coster StridenTsarisp at Us.

Mecco 1 dis astraget 5 serve the arrant

for mina comesasion.

5. Echarledging questart out of 448; wh

a He denied du had made sach a to got

if to beain silent about i

38 11

---

## Page 8

Can it conduced tas if he had content with either forcent

→ Ohoice o bath, that went beyond the straisit-lion

espect on intr test he was ties tt apronint

ter content his mutequent litters ts USA Rik. Unougte

mose cure to condude That to rotations acre in on

elecitis, duncanted stego that Cat's affort

to redefest un hina fiche. (NIT departilic ideas.

tigued the balice in li fores f Maning in the USSR

rod the transactions

no ling meltin.

Tard self determinesS"donation

at self-proming

dealing twitt

ugarat the bais a promisint, ants frees

6. What is the probatis sales-wettons frosties collated

relatung to Bexico and Callos mart - f trios

Brozilian Carbosay recglins? Nots thay UPI nasir

"HW 53320 DocId: 32392707

---

## Page 9

bian, he's alis and TEK is dead, Don wise andres

a act franciston where I may lane been a

editioned agree a polite mean,

justifiabl termicid?

unas,

ni the aboves fartial clitial that goes huga

or name, thes Lot we hes biddy

If TAK and isfice Fizet And that hi did it acris.

Coke the same question Its Sarts' absenation,

Lin shutch 70. mutilanton: Whest rigief. Caidutic,

an du attackett whint la said? (Ahmettis the

Soviet (Nandio) end the vetro Calm poliose in fe

i fortun

uff the book

I not nunching when 20.

ents-Caster ride are doing, em they lover. Cas for

I hear they pating tons It desh wed the legis

in then anti-costin platting s l not require the the

chad, agat ouch a they in the aberce of credible,

What was t be done: dow

A sss20 on, constains i spute 7 to absence f creditidines;

---

## Page 10

paring by his reporting

for fastes acculatios of richie belites 8

the forge crispiang spect,

Mi Willis wr

or advised lay che Stolf at the Cure, bu ar

is this d0 a matte fiance or sharking on

becan in are tething len of dezue sumptioning.

What did the Connion in Say iTself do I formulate

spoill, did hearing on amerint of the

@ Nosents -calf, 4264-nif pored ii substance

(026 визі

1464) Assested hissin O2 au

at Gorki 1960. Mutal. lis

Docid:32392707

Page 10

---

## Page 11

9. Helms se recond se fill disdons 1 pll

tout held by Eigeng is these tastron

minimum input from ware and no concen

This shouch le trocable in Jeking fil, if

11 Au Marin Os trot. (kl. Z): she sosste tes witent wers

git her Ejoin ter.

t parole

twin cabr

Se aloo FRITZ tatawny,

tal 14: 224,278,299

who is besserd up by WADE, Vol V: 235

---

## Page 12

This enspirath Ms they Whe

us a Bandin debates, Be No matri poet T

1d. Guts 1 hide Cared If To Cussion.

(se alto GERAl he Blalich testimong)

O it der me made so duen ra.

hang

he tale a legle for el Tro cons?

worst a his teen

Rift a pital parchone dats?

Report does ust note the Al aspent la, Hacher, Me

Seat 1483e outs wo tastining then on the

chints clungs the nssion that spread.

I mplet pain line hancer i pp. 41z 11

НЯ 53320

DocId: 32392707

Page 12

---

## Page 13

Noto

was equises in omosed.

tanichen

Spetro 0 2100T 1364. Conioz antred d

questing by fu past yen bet U.S: visite

had decome notill, lue and nase E

- Elma Garso de Paz. Thi sa pessio tut arcome

bay her.

,chock, Tham

Mpentes Echi 5621 9 16Rm 1965} 25 / 1965, she

sentenaios and omile constel ben destin

ramnto: INB: Elema Garo is cinesi of torncio

repeates

23, NoT IL3 aT And Vermort), 26-26 f 25-30,^

i lint claman 220 620 no ant

compitas a

HH

53320. DocId:32392707 Page 13

Thrma.

---

## Page 14

att, alte

O Cimerian Suc. Conil 94. St-ff: "Bodegion

Magnost.

O Ralph de Fileno, Milden Side 14 Reunel

Ст.

escas a borla.

(037-70177)

O Eni tan Inte si eran m 42

HH 53320

Docid: 32392707

Page 14

---

## Page 15

Nat

- вить та в на. ми ви аніта?

магоіфіл

me men t age Cuba portapad

25/11-05/12:

from tati

- Ir. restin and on 1 a plan. T

1.-

he alled partipstan in brothe 2

mut. Castes aromanti sa decet action as

cand ust be coidstial, liked with weth

7 In 7 Smitt.

+ 2 hind a botanie

the aschant? There

for anguise mind bore is (sail dion).

= Not Magics atation sentes promis this teard sund

5 mam Comile

ure the

53320 Docid: 32392707

---

## Page 16

tremon

and please:

is 6458 pet Calet ne penal

1 Ot info emplede cats data in a plato rop am

indivisial who hood-entered UlSE Cat. a Hort

(This ford agents 23 NrT, Mexi to 19

stas indinitual

Mupica 6537 MIS Ort88. auto for pots 20.

went out to the downy berts a ryust for i as

to 24 от.

No its had his day in used i Not

Mario 70H4 722 Nir; segust 2190 plot pre

oly riches whe chall

I proment wot a telephone crore, with this

ліним а гра

* on from hot a pin gut i sha

4 in colite.

22533 hid intel i a photo leapia

person siting Clin Laubrag.

all photo la Mown lar 684821 2 23 NN) baT

cancelled at by miss. fodoming colle

(84822 ) a pros win plistes of brold clears

53320 DocId:3%

---

## Page 17

Fant plore

USSR TEM

*1?"

NO: possibl, tat

27 Set 1963: anni 6110:10.

wient at hrt

,athes tus

I Criters

taniat - chich in trame.

232 Saut 1365 (Saturdo) iere

1a0 imenti

-Erba #3

visit thim

Silic tirin

USSR # 3

29 Set 1963 (Sandag) No Astat regia tas

1 T 1963 (Twindes).

---

## Page 18

use her? Netting ned hint oly hans bee

at. Obed. hange may

Some I on tinte, to telephones. Wh did

Win assume lid quit anything asssotorites

In his file arriage? There is no gunstin

in tore conversations that lito had Aiy wan

nevitat ti sutto the installation o

registral. Esto, despants 6.0830 for

Lando - Dalm.]

3 October 1963 (Thunday). AT 1539 Thic

ma a call to Sun MA lins (some se

speat terror Spanish ani than tangled.

wants a nion forussk. Dastart ovel

15-60-55.

сти:

2, 2865 statio

dico" identifid self he, name ong, on I Ot.

wade at list thre entris to Cation burbing 1lh,

Ion 48 Sapt, the want at least

---

## Page 19

1. Post As it ida and gin paties

michelad an ancescued contest (Belgand

te and simal infer en

(this is not ting Et cor made cistrator A 32 dr.

The court-and thir?

tants air

IN 1963-127 Bleat, to de

53320. DodId: 32392707

Page 19

---

## Page 20

Nit's

O file

= 289248- Wns spied 1 9 041960 mile

USSA in Other 1958.

Note this in me TS to Anals 193mb 1964 "bute

demeloped by CH On the crit flee Atoning

para 4, out 3, one stated:

"I me ill the silm

a mut miles to Can i duden

in Mexico Cats an the apteman 13, 27 funt 1563

and agari sometime

Mn 28 Situdes 1963,

The in no snidune that la mists vomine to

tom run on the dage murtinies beat are

mat eclad them possibilites. Than

in pose seaf air repeat, on progen fame

so hased an ts stitemias if

Shua

Husan and incan that Conald wis

aT t Croulate at Least nice afte l

insteal visit, and this later nint win me

the aptionion of a day in entires if Cabar

moul lelephones the Sanet Coraulate sions

Get men put This ma

certain of thi conciaino.

AMHINT 53 sported ANSpoLe diligate lind sodi dis

sanctus i leag, 63 on N.O. Stations

---

## Page 21

sistemily ara dandato verdo huno the at as

time an acepts dortmnel pont ot hent amog GRI.

3 finites papero Keving on toge - of the tor wese

Dir 87915 g 23 Nor 63 22062 distich: 5 781 og

Americon a 237 att, fall fil rier

Repent from Santago Cit 23 Nov de labor hat neretin

ridicatel comedi centro teo arn, ca "yelera

CIA", Extum Migto e segregatiniat ti Alam, Pris

person ma, sispet 2 strane aglitest a segregatino

516 Mons

(Tia Santanzo 6153 IN 6214),

23. Nir 63)

Sove. Sach

a, 400t

IT in cleai from contest this il re sent oper. 6

plastro cade resisi, 5 lund. bud: 00 7124

this plotts cation,

HW 53320 DOGIDBZAUTYTT PESIZIGMAA- 2253)

---

## Page 22

Blish

Mercise

D 23 Nrr1963 (in 67232

HH 53320 DodId: 32392707 Page 22

---

## Page 23

23/+

According + cht.

23 Jpul 1505, ty came

was dr on 2 fist for some medianient

explicable os midianted. Not a mutts f

mad & const than on this point. We

unsel est in trude.

Pursy: grates ahore, unling did in mot

дт O at it Cuhm

visitino an Me 20=2

HH 53320. DocId:32392707

Page 23

---

## Page 24

He alo con

14 53320

DocId: 32392707

Page 24

---

## Page 25

kose tims al

Tom Reinen

Dep, inf

баниті.

in tent Mirico Cet, stein,

methe

patn th ther mey this,

Amitatins

and apatil tis

had doir

thes

all it coold, dada ni

eritini üritte

Keadquaster nestuctep: ten wes me

functis contict

Ly comat t art, ea,

Lu hand lipt nsic enty, tag Con 2l

wind,.

s platiguiha, a

int wone

tahn

sucial effort,

lince

ese To apala a persitis

iditificatin ii wsw smd bite

registratin andu alis.

Tall wiets Michne farae

1N 53320

DocId: 32392707

Page 25

---

## Page 26

3:

Mixi 6453 (IN 36017, 9 ort, 09042 ti)

tctions 5 wis.

Dii 24676 t Stit, EBi2Na, 201122

thi 74830 to Mixi, nif. Mex 6453

22092

Mixi 6537 ; 15 QT1963 F4 40357

17302 -

(ug fo phests)

1N 53320

DocId: 32392707

Page 26

---

## Page 27

elio s:

NI Rut Not

Va ci lion vest in tane a

Musape.

I call tardie a till hin abert i2?

1 Get astutes con ABate E ant-

Ke3 di

A.N. AKSENOV.

putite

HH 53320 DocId:32392707 Page 27

---

## Page 28

- Get pulled had tts Rit clans for and

1963 2 purst 19 months 64.

- M mut fil in the no dine me

- an the enter lin the met e

2814

vas antimate a close senates - Cabar

divice was down (allen Whits) , AT won

mamad, operates.

1H 53320 DocId: 32392707 Page 28

---

