# docid-32338760

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90143-10178

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-370750-NR

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

LA

HQ

DATE: 01/20/1944

'PAGES:

22

SUBJECTS :

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998:

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

INW 54460

DocId: 32338760

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form NO. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

OUTATIAL

LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

FILE NO.

100-6769

REPORT MADE AT

DATE WHEN MADE

LOS ANGELES

1/20/14

TITLE

HERBERT JOSEPH BIBERIAl, ot al

ALLINFO

PERIOD FOR

REPORT MADE BY

WHICH MADE

10/16,23,26/43

JOHN R. VICARS

11/1,2,25,16,

21,22, 24, 30/ISRACTER OF CASE:

12/1,8,23,27/L3 INTERNAL SECURITY - C

CLASSISIEO

* SHOW%

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

" TCEPT N

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

infat nenbership records dicclose HERBERT

BIBERNAN

tranaferred fron Branch B (Hollywood), Morthwest.

Soction, In October, 19L3, to Group 3, Branch A (writers),

•Northest Section.

HOLd 1915 CP Book Mo. 47073. BIBERMAN

oberved at apparent branch nestings 12/8/43 by Agents.

subject atill employed RKO Studios an riter. He recently

sald origanal screen play to ROBERT OULDWYll to be filmed

28 "Tha Master Race."

Informant advited that BIBERMAN 15

momber of temporary Executive Connitten, 15th Congrossional

Dietrict leglelative Council, reported Cosmnist dominated

organization, and is the guiding forco thereor. DALE

SONDERGAARD BIBERIAN, wife of subjoot BIBERMAN, roported

to be membes of Bransh F (Aetors), Northwest Section.

JOHN HOWARD RANSON apparently Chairman of Northmest Section

Executive Cormittee, and is assigned to Group 3 Branch A

(Tritera). He held 1943 CP Book No, 30198. He has

rocontly appeared as lecturer at Isagua of Amarican

r-tore sonina, Peoplo's Educational Canter Conferenco,

and CIO B111 of Righta colebration. LANSON received

appointment In November, 1913, to Board of Contributing

Editore of "Hem Maas

ho la sanber of contimation:

emittes of 19h ar

aro Congress, and was a contact of

JOE NORTH, "Now NaBE

Los Angeles.

st editor, during NORTH'a vlast to

LAiSON presently writing script for "Counter

Attack," based on original russian story deseribed pro-

vously, Bank eccountratlecte be continues regular pay-

ments to MARJORIE J. POTTS, Section Memberehlp Director

and Organisational Secretary, Northwest Section, and MADBLEINE

RUTHVEN, recently a menbor of tha Morthreat Section Executive

Condittee, SPECIAL AGENT

-P=

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

100:370750-

KPH

3

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

Bureau

New Tork

Los Angeles

HH 54460 DocId: 32338760

Page 2

NOT RECOR DODE

82

AUG

1960/2

7-2034

AL

14th NR.20

ANGTEAL FILE

100-24409-792

---

## Page 3

UNDEVELOFED LEADS

ENLAL

THE NEW YORK FISLD DIVISION

At New York City, will review the indices of the New York Field

Division for any information on RHODA. RYFINS.

An individual by the name of

ISAAC L. RYPINS is mêntioned in the los Angeles files as a radical whose.

writings were banned from the mails in World War I.

Possibly RHODA RYPINS

is a relative.

will roview the reports of highly confidential sources intimate

with ALEXANDER STEVENS (New York File 100-24753) to ascertain if STEVENs had

contact with HERBURT BIBERIAN on February 20 to 25, 1943, and particularly

on February 2h and 25, 19h3, the specific period in which BIBERIAN is believed

to have been in New York.

THE LOS ARGELES FIELD DIVISION

At Los Angeles, California, will maintain contact with Confidential

National Defense Intornat In 78 for bank checks on subjects, and also for

chock on entrance of BIBERIAN's safe daposit box, No. 320, at this bank.

T11 develop an Informant in LARSON neighborhood for contimous

surveillance, it being noted that MARTHA and ELWOOD KAY (employed at LOCKHEED

AIRCRAFT CORPORATION), 4521 Coldiater Canyon Avenue, reside in a good location

and one which we have

previously used to advantage.

Will contact

the appropriate officers

of the Vi. I. GRAND COMPANY,

810 South Spring Street, to ascertain the identity and Communistic tondencies

of H. A. BARTH.

111 ascartain subject BIBERIAN's activitles prior to his leader

hip in the Anorican Poace Hobilization through Contidential National Defens

Informant LA 1138,

will follow the activities of subjects in the los Angeles area

through confidential informants, spot surveillances, and other sources.

COATIRENTAL

- 21

:H4 54460

DocId: 32338760

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SOURCES OF INFORLATION

CONTIDENTIAL NATIONAL DEFCISE INFORMANT IA-2900.)

A:

B:

C:

D:

G:

H:

I:

IA-2529.

14-257 X4

IA-2722.

K:

HI:

Records of Anti-Subversive Department, Los Angeles

Police Department, Wilshire Station.

(COMPOSINIAZ MATIONAL BEENSE INFORMANT A 28-2.] 4) CL

IA-1138.

Attornay RICHARD E, COMBS, Chief Investigator,

Logiolative Joint

Fact Finding Conmittee on Un

Anerican Activities, who wrote letter to this offico

concerning this interview on 72/30/43-

. (See LA File

100÷5377) •

RALPH DERR, 1827 North E1 Cerrito, manager of thie

apartnent house.

CON TRITAL METONAT DESISS INFORA LA - C0-Z08X4

54460

DocId: 32338760

Page 4

---

