# docid-32556693

## Page 1

FBI WASH DC

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

NOV 8

TELETYPE

FBI CHICAGO

1225 PM CST DEFERRED 11-8-65 JAZ

TO DIRECTOR (92-3182)

FROM CHICAGO (92-373.

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr--

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Casper.-

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt.

Mr. Gale_

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes0

Miss Gandy-

GUS

ALEX, AKA. AR.

CG SIX FOUR THREE THREE - ADVISED THAT A

MEMORIAL SERVICE WAS

HELD FOR LOUIS ARGER AT ELEVEN AM NOVEMBER SEVEN LAST AT ST. ANDREW'S

GREEK ORTHODOX CHURCH ON CHICAGO'S NORTH SIDE. ALEX ATTENDED WITH

HENRY SUSK, PONTIAC DEALER, AND REPORTEDLY WERE INSEPARABLE DURING

SERVICE; HOWEVER, THEY DID NOI ATTEND LUNCHEON FOLLOWING. ARGER

WAS ALEX'S REPRESENTATIVE IN THE STATE STREET ARCADE AND STRIP

SHOWS UNTIL HIS RECENT DEATH• ALSO ATTENDING SERVICE AND SUBSE -

QUENT LUNCHEON WERE ALEX'S BROTHERS SAM AND JAMES AND THEIR WIVES,

LES KRUSE, MARRY MARCUS, STRIP JOINT OPERATOR, JAMES ELIPOULIOUS,

GAMBLING JOINT OPERATOR, AND LOUIS ARGER'S FAMILY. LUNCHEON HELD

AT MILLIONAIRES CLUB AT FIFTY TWO HUNDRED NORTH BROADWAY • SAM ALEX

APPEARED VERY CONGENIAL THROUGHOUT SERVICE. INFORMANT WAS TOLD THAT

ALEX'S OLDEST BROTHER, JAMES, REPORTEDLY HAS BIGGEST INDUSTRIAL 102.

LAUNDRY

OPERATIONCIN THE COUNTRY AT PRESENT TIME, AND

WILL ATTEMPT

TO ORRAIN

FURTHER INFORMATION

22 ,4k 8e

END

22 6N,22

THIS BUSINESS 92-3

1104

REC: 35l

NOV 9 1965

FBI

WASH DE65

TIl CIFY.

NW 45679 DocId: 32556693

Page 1

---

