# docid-32295260

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10215-10036

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2717-16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/06/1958

4

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

ABR, AFFIL, ACLU

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

02/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45737 DocId: 32295260 Page 1

110

---

## Page 2

PH 92-44,4

Leads

MIAMI

i.

Miami.

AT MIAMI, FLA.

1. Will continue efforts to locate

subject in

2. Will report results of leads set out in

referenced report.

Will discreetly continue investization of

proposed Dade County, Fla.,

trash contract as reported

by PH 269-0.

NEWARK

AT CAMDEN, NI.J.

Will contact logical informants for any information

they might be able to furnish concerning subject's connection

with DOVTHICK OLIVETO who is reported to have succeeded MARCO

RECINELLI.

AT TRENTON, N.J.

Will ascertain if it is still planned to subpoena

BRUNO before the Grand

Jury In Prenton.

PHILADELP ITIA

Leads 2, 4, 7, 11, 21 and 32 of referenced report

are being re-ovaluatod to determine if coverage is necessary

in the light of current investigation.

AT PHILADELPITA, PA.

3

1. Will continue efforts to obtain handwriting

specimens of subject.

- 2 -

NW 45737 DocId: 32295260 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-444

2. Will recontact SAM PARISI,

superintondent,

Southwark Station,

U. S. Post

Offico, for any

additional

information he can furnish on whoreabouts of subjoct.

3. Will idontify sister of subject who is

roportedly marrica to PETER LAGGIO, son of Philadolphia

top

hoodlum MICHAEL MAGGIO.

4. Will rocontact PH 514-C rogarding idontity

of BOBBY (LNU) and any other curront information ho might

furnish.

5. Will rocontret DOMINIC COLOZZI, hord of

subjoct's numbors bank.

6. Will recontact PHILIP TESIA.

7. Will continue offorts to idontify JOHNNY

LONGO, wa. Johnny Luongo.

8. Will rocontact PH 517-0 for idontity of

NICK (LNU) and any othor information

he might furnish.

9. Will identify and attempt intorviow of

HARRY D'ALLESINDRO, PH PD #195769; THEODORE IANNELLI,

PH PD #201969; and

FIZINK GRECO, PH PD #55409.

10. Will idontify F. SINDONE, arrosted with

TESTA and COLOZZI on 6/8/57.

11. Will rocontact PH PD officer ROGER MANCINI.

12. Will reinterviow JOSEPH MALITO.

Will attempt intervicw of FRiNK FORTE,

PH PD #29927; and JAMES "LEFTY" GATTI, PH PD #87357.

14. Will ascortain if RALPH MARANCA is subject's

brether-in-law.

#288255;

sub joot.

Will ascertain if ANTHONY PROVENZANO, PH ID

NICHOLAS RUSSO, PH PD #213145 are employces

16. Will rocontact PH 489-0 rogarding relationship

-3.-

NW 45737 DocId: 32295260 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-444

of subjoet,

"Greaser Gang," "Jowish Mob" and roported

political

tic-uo.

17.

Will recontact PH 269-0 rogarding numbors

activity

and propesod Dodo County, Fla., trash contract.

18.

Will intorvicw l

regarding argument

with PHILIP TESTA.

19. Will rocontact LEONARD RUTIGLIANO, PH PD

officor, regarding subjoct and the "Groasor Gang.

20. Will rocontact PH 251-0.

21. Will recontact PH 131-C rogarding loàn

sharking

; and idontity of R.LPH MARANCA.

22.

Will mintain contact with other Confidontial

Informants who can furnish information on subject.

AT HARRISBURG, PA.

Will at Dopartment of Motor Vohicles,

Cormonwealth

of Pennsylvania, ascertain current auto liconse issued to

subject and description of auto issued.

BECAUSE BRUNO IS ALLEGED TO HAVE COMMITTED

GANGIAND EXECUTIONS IN THE PAST,

HE SHOULD EN CONSIDE ED

DANGEROUS.

4

-

NW 45737 DocId: 32295260 Page 4

OTHER 4

---

