# docid-32324686

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90030-10141

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

166-4028-76

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: TEL AVIV

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/24/1972

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

MAURICE MEDLEVINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LHM; ENCLOSURE

v9.1

DocId: 32324686

16

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 05C-2107 Hotel.

~ DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UN ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF -STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Washington, D. C.

May 24, 1972

MAURICE MEDLEVINE;

LEO MEYER OGUL

On May 22, 1972, a confidential source abroad, who has

is available indicating Ogul's itinerary subsequent to his arrival

in Cyprus.

The above source also noted that subject is a citizen of

Israel, having registered as an immigrant on March 18, 1971. A subse-

entry in his registration indicated he resided at Osishkin Street

Number 88, Tel Aviv, Israel. He formerly resided at Frug Street Numbe

* 4)

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI.. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

DECLASSIFLED BY SO8 MAC GAI

ON 10/13/94

CONFIDENTIAL

Exclude

from

Automatic Downgrading

and Declassification

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

AND FIEL

OFFICES

ADVISAD E

ROUTING

200

DATE

2,91

upheld 41254

57 319/78

SO ARE

+666-4028-76

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32324686 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Releasem

mmer the John F. Kennedy ASSäSSination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

TED SATES DEPARTMENT OF STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Kashangton g

D. G

Bay 24, 1973

MAURICE ISULEVINE;

LEO NEVER OGUL

on hay zuy 1972, a conficential source abroad Bho has

amishod toliale infomecion in the past, advised that suject uru

Jeft Isral ca Novober 16, 1971, and has not retured.

he indicates his destination as Nicosis, Cyprus, and no other bate

is avallable indicating Omal's itinerary subscquent to his arrival

in Cyprus.

The above seurce also noted that subject is a citizen of

Isrsel, having registered as an fungrant on March 13,

1071-

A subse

antry in his registration indicated he resided at Osishkin Stroot

numer cus

Tel Aviv, Israel, le fomerly resided at Frug Street Nuber

5, Tel Aviv.

*/4)

This docurent contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the proporty

ot the Hit and is hones to your ngency, it and

ten contents are not to bo distributed outside

your agency.

ONCLASSTFLE

0x 12/13

SpmA(EAT)

P 1

DEPTIAL

Krom

utamat

Downgrading

nd Declassificatio

DocId: 32324686

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Reeords Collection Art of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE:

11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

-CED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Kashingten,

D. C.

May 24, 1972

MAURICE MIDLEVINE;

1RO NEYER OCUL

Co May 22, 1972, 9

confidential source abroad, who has

rumished reliable intomation in the past, novised that sect egal

Jeft Israol on Noventer 12, 1971,

me has not retuned,

In deparcing.

he indicated his destination as Nicosio, cyprus, and no ether data

avallable indicating Ogul's itinorary nubsequent to his arrival

in Gorus.

The above source also noted that subject is a citizen of

Israel, having rogistered as an

Land grant on March 18, 1971.

A subso-

quent entzy in his registration indicated he resided

at Osishkin Street

Number 8o,

Tel Aviv, Isract. No fomorly resided at Frug Street Murber

5, Tel AViV.

(n)

This documnt contains neither r'ecomondationa

nor conclusions of the

It is tho property

dE the Est and is lomed to your agency, it and

its contents are not to lo distributed outside

your agency.

0h 10/13/94

CANETE

TIAL

Grot

Exclude

C70%

Autor

vagrading

and

poclassa

stion

19

DocId: 32324686

Page 4

---

