# docid-32306398

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10290-10038

RECORD_ SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE: 134-12019-4

DATE: 09/29/1965

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

07/02/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 45705 DocId: 32306398

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

SU 10=107=02

MAY 1962 EDITION

USA GEN. KEG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES G

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Director, FBI

DATE:

9/29/65

FROM T

& SAC, Miami (134-

N36)

SUBJECT:

PSI -

(UD) - CUBA

(00: MM)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

OTHER 4

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED P8 MAGe OU

DATE 10-8-9/4 BY-

(JFK)

LOUIS BALBLENA

Remylet to Director! 6/23/65,

entitled, "UNKNOWN

SUBJECT,

Aka. Armando Blanco,/ (FNU) Benavides; etal;

ESPIONAGE - CUBA, " (00 :NY) .

65-69402-24

For

the information of the Bureau, reMM let

furnished a copy of the mimeographed letter

solicitin

cooperation in furnishing information of an

ntel

Igence nature to the Cuban Government.

Copt

OTHER 4

On July 21 and September 23, 1965,

(currently residing 927 S. W. 3rd Street,

Apart-

, advised she has received no further correspondence

soliciting her cooperation in furnishing information of an

intelligence nature

to the Cuban Government. She stated

she would immediately advise the FBI should she receive

any further correspondence.

has

stated she intends to take

no action in regard to answering

the letter she received out of fear of jeopardizing her

chances of getting her daughters out of Cuba.

It appears

she has little, if any, potential for development as a

PSI, and for this reason her case is being closed.

OTHER 4

Bitseau (RM)

1 - Miami

(MFF : GK

(3)

UEC.O

VIO JI9TRI MO

EX 110

MCT-7

134-12017-4

REG- 60

8 OCT | 1 1965

Mass senia sepsa

RAJE

(NAT.

10098

" Or

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan es.

NW 45705 DocId: 32306398

Page 2

---

