# docid-32292983

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 21UT Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10210-10259

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-75147-9-143

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PRICE

TO: ROSEN

TITLE :

DATE: 05/18/1955

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

SGI, BKG, CRIMINAL ACT, BUSS, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 2 MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32292983

10

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

HECURDE

INDEXED

SteEL 4059T

019 Y

cotot.

62-78

POLICY AND

NORTHERS

39-/43

arred to in your memorantus a rarea 140

•den, 123-23-0).

names are the sare a those mentioned in yous anguiry

sinilar thereto. As to all of the other persons

onse in your sonorancus, except the fire refereed te

1n

the following paragranh, 10 vas not poosiblo on tae.

basio of the limited infornation furniahed to loosto any

Inforustion In

our files identifiable with their 54.00

with rafarando to Chrietopher C. Himbian, George

Smith, forgexarena, damos Casey. halpa heteau and charles

Herring.

the only Information la our files ubich appeared

and Juse 9, 1954,

captioned "Villian Levi

DevOn, COngredeman, Chloago, IllInolle

These nomoranda

alao consined detailed intormacion donoaching A210 a lose

that Congressan Dawson and othere reselved soney fron

racket payoffa in Chleago.

Your attention 1s Javitad to the saot that most

MAY I Sadio incoration containad in the enclosed menerenda has

been verifiod or corroborated through invostigation.

thie and on the basia of the linited intonation

furnisbed,

It cannot be assured that the poreone

ad 2n

she ae

memorands are Identloal with the indivicuals

9x20d

to

in your monorandul.

thore Id alep enclosed for your inf

annistance a sumass of infornation conserala

Mer

and nunbers

thp 9H19069,9500.

aru englosed

ort of s

Parcons

Rosel

Tanm

Winterro

(44)

JGL: mrs

(8) 0000

65 JUN 71

XECH6t50

Attachmoht, to

Price to Rosen memo

5-

haptioned "Folley and Nurbara

1112

Northern

trict offllinois. Criminat

Section

restigat

Division) JcL: mrs

DocId: 32292983

Page 2

---

## Page 3

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

*...

The "Chicago Iribune" on March 11, 1954,

published an article in which it described the "Wagon

Illinois, as

CG Let to bureau

The "Chicago Tribune"

and Number Rackets, NDI)

carried an article in which it was stated that

the Chicago

Police Department was investigating a report that Tony

Accardo was attempting to leave the United States because

he feared assassination.

It was reported that a werning

shot had been fired over Accardo's head as he was leaving

& meeting he had had with three representatives of Paul

Ricca, who had replaced Accardo as boss of the criminal

syndicate two years previously.

the meeting

that Accardo talked with Sam Giancana, northwest Cook

County gambling boss; Sam Battaglia, gambler and former

west side gang leader,

and Jack Capone, a leader with

Glancana of the yound

hoodluns in the syndicate who supported

Accardo's removal as the head of the syndicate. It was

reported that Accardo walked out of this meeting after refus-

ing to turn over control of gambling and vice receipts from

the southern section of Cook County and Kankakee County.

(62075)47a9 confidential Intorant, who has furnished rellable

information in the pasty

advised in 1954 that it was general

knowledge anong the hoodlums that the "top setup of the

alleged syndicate, Insofar as the operation of taverns and

handbooks and minor gangs was concerned, was first Tony

accardo, then Tony capezio, followed by Sam Giancana.

According to this informant, Giancana controlled Cloerc

i tronanta

and the central west and southwest suburbs; Rocky Potenza,

allegedly a protege of Sam Giancana, controlled the north

and northwest section of Chicago along with the northwest

suburbs. (08-5951-6, 63-735-3)

There is enclosed an identification record for

one sam clancana, with aliases, Sam Gincanni,

San Gincana,

FBI number 58+37, who may be identical with the captioned

Individual.

= 8-

DocId: 32292983 Page 3

---

