# docid-32286494

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10195-10270

HQ

62-9-12-332

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/07/1962

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

CIP, RES, GAMBLING ACT, TELEPHONE CALLS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

• CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286494

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Recorus Colleotion Aot of 1992 (11 U5c 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 94- 55A - SUB

Re :

BOBBY JOE CHAPMAN, aka.

AR (DL 162-107)

TEXAS

On 5/1,2,3,4/62, efforts were made by Bureau Agent

to contact. CHAPMAN

at his

residence and interview him con-

cerning gambling activities in Dallas in general and any

knowledge he may have concerning the alleged fixing of SWC

basketball officials (DL 165-29) • CHAPMAN was not at his

residence at any of the times inquiry was made and his wife

stated she would have him contact the Dallas Office as soon

as he returned to town.

CHAPMAN was "ducking" his interview with the FBI but

informant was unable to furnish reason for CHAPMAN'S

actions.

There was observed a 1962 green Cadillac convertible parked

in CHAPMAN's drive way bearing Texas JB 722.

Above information orally furnished to LT. REVILL

and DEP. MORGAN on 5/4/62.

Re :

ALBErTA MEADOWS, aka.

IGA (DL 162-109)

TEXAS.

Previous investigation had ascertained that

numerous phone calls had been plaged from the apartment TEXAS

of MEADOWS' associate BILLY RAXAGRIMES. to a Fort Worth-

phone listed to BILL STEWART, 3922 Mercury Street, Fort

Worth. On 5/4/62 STEWART, who stated his first name was

BENNIE was interviewed by SAs ROBERT M. BARRETT and

JOSEPH M. MYERS in

'Fort Worth.

STEWART admitted acquaintance-

ship with GRIMES, having, known him for about 12 years and

identified photographs of JANICE CHRISTAKIS and ALBERT

MEADOWS as persons he had seen

"some place".

STEWART

no LoC:

explained the numerous telephone calls between himself

and GRIMES as calls wherein he was discussing two Shetland

ponies he had left at GRIMES' residence in Dallas. He denied

knowledge that GRIMES had operated out of an apartment in

Arlington, Texas or any knowledge concerning any bookmaking

activities by GRIMES.

He stated that although he knew GRIMES

almost as well as a son, he didn't know his occupation.

He

did admit that he has been arrested several times for gambling

in Fort Worth and Dallas.

Concerning the numerous phone

calls in late December 1961, STEWART stated they may hae

talked about bets but he didn't recall.

BILE STEWART

2

BENNLEXSTEWART

3928 MERCURY ST., FP. WEREN, TEXAS

DocId: 32286494 Page 2

---

