# docid-32292413

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10209-10189

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3182-939

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/05/1964

1

GAL, GIRL FRIEND, RES, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

NW 45679 DocId: 32292413

Page 1

400

---

## Page 2

004-3 (Rev. 4-17-631

AIRGRAM

DECODEDCOPY

0 CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

XXTELETYPE

Tolson -

Belmont -

Mohr

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad

Gale

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

3:41

AM DST DEFERRED 5-5-64 EH

DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO

050257

GUS ALEX, AKA, AR.

PCI

BUILDING MANAGER, AT ALEX'S APARTMENT,

ADVISED THAT WITHIN NEXT TWO DAYS ALEX'S PARAMOUR, SUZANIE

FUEGER, WILL MOVE INTO ALEX'S BUILDING AND PROBABLY

INTOE AN: "

APARTMENT ON THE FIFTH FLOOR. ALEX WILL REMAIN IN HIS APARTMENT

ON THE TENTH FLOOR. PCI STATES FUEGER'S APPLICATION: WAS.

ACCEPTED AND APPROVED AND ONE OF HER REFERENCES WAS EUGENE •

BERNSTEIN, WELL-KNOWN HOODLUM TAX ATTORNEY. POI

ApDED FUEGER

SEEMED CONCERNED OVER EXCESSIVE COST OF APARTMENT ZAND

INDICATES

MODEST MODE OF LIVING. ALSO THAT ALEX HAD SEEMED ANXIOUS ABOUT

THE APPROVAL OF HER APPLICATION MAKING INQUIRY SEVERAL TIMES

AND WAS VERY APPRECIATIVE WHEN IT WAS APPROVED. CG 6502-C*

HAS ADVISED IN THE PAST THAT FUEGER WAS EXPECTED TO MOVE INTO

APARTMENT 6J IN ALEX'S BUILDING AND THAT ALEX HAD EXPRESSED

MUCH CONCERN OVER WHAT HIS NEIGHBORS MIGHT THINK ABOUT THIS

MOVE. ALEX APPARENTLY IS VERY SENSITIVE ABOUT HIS NEIGHBORS

AND WHAT THEY THINK OF HIM.

RECEIVED: 5:03 AM .CTF

OTHER 4

REC IO

92-3182-939

MAY 5

1864

3I WAY IT 1964

are irasite ore cono pred in the aurue me crape rap be sisseminated outside the Bureau, it is suested that it be suitably

NW 45679 DocId: 32292413 Page 2

---

