# docid-32328206

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/22/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90071-10006

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 63-7761-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

HQ

BS

DATE :

PAGES:

07/23/1962

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USc 2107 Notel.

Cased:NI 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

SUBJECTS :

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

HH 54463

DocId: 32328206

Page 1

---

## Page 2

GO00t

7/23/62

4*79

7761

MAILEO 5

ORAINTEL

TO:

SACS,

BOSTON

ATLANTA

CHICAGO

- /Enclosures

Enclosures

Enclosures

(2)

(2)

(2)

FROM:

DIRE

CTOR

FBI

63-300

JAMES RIDDLE BOFFA

PROTAGORAS. DEVEIRIUS MAKIOS

aka.

"JIMMY" MAKTO

Bertou

MICCELLANEOUS - INFORHATION CONCERNING

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

(00: BS)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATEL-14-95 BY SQ&

moc /Ise

enclosed for each office are two copies of

• self-

explanatory memorandum Sated, 1/20/6 fron the Criminal Division

entitled "PROTAGORAS D.

MAKTOS, also known as "JINIY" HAKTOS,

TELEMATHOS MAKTOS,

requesting cortain investigation concerning

captioned individual.

Boston is being designated office of origin since it is.

indicated that subject resides, conducts most of his business

affairs, and banks in the Boston area.

According to information in Bufiles,

Maktos is a close

friend of Jamos Piddle Hotta and has served as legal counsel

-90? Louis "Babe"" Triscaro and other Teamstera Union officials

years

the better attorney of

the two while Maktos is the "contact man" with many high-level

contacts.

Maktos professes to be an attorney with a good legal

background but there is some question as to how he came by his

deghee and it is rumored among his associates that he "bought" it

in Georgia possibly through bribery of some state exanining or

Iicensing official. o

PDY : eem

5-1

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

* JUL

3

MAIL ROOM

NW 54463 DooId: 32328206

Page 2

NOTE: Information herein attributable to

Bureau files was obtained from Bureau file

of the Cleveland Office who operates an industrial

relations firm in Cleveland.

962

TELETYPE UNIT

---

