# docid-32317521

## Page 1

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10353-10258

RECORD SERIES: LA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-113C-179

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 11/02/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JOHN ROSELLI (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

DocId: 32317521

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992. (44. USC 2197 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPE

FBI

Date: 11/2/62

PLAIN

(Type in plain text or code)

URGENT

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

FROM:

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-113C)

JOHN ROSELII, AKA. AR

LA FOUR TWO SIX EIGHT DASH C ADVISED ROSSELLI AT THE FRIAR-S

CLUB AFTERNOON NOVEMBER ONE LAST. DURING AFTERNOON NAME OF

PAT O-MALLEY, WHO IS ALLEGEDLY AFFILIATED WITH VENDING MACHINE

OPERATIONS IN CHICAGO AREA, WAS MENTIONED AND ROSSELLI STATED

THAT HE KNEW EVERYONE IN THE RACKETS IN CHICAGO BUT THAT HE NEVER

HEARD OF O-MALLEY. ROSSELLI ALSO SAID THAT IN LAS VEGAS QUOTED

ODDS ARE EIGHT TO FIVE THAT PAT BROWN WILL WIN OVER NIXON IN THE

RACE FOR GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA. ROSSELLI THEN ADDED THAT HE

WAS BETTING ON BROWN TO WIN BUT HE WAS GOING TO VOTE FOR

NIXON. IN THIS REGARD IT IS NOTED THAT ROSSELLI IS NOT A

REGISTERED VOTER IN LOS ANGELES COUNTY AND BECAUSE OF HIS CONVICTION

IN FORTY THREE IS NOT ENTITLED TO VOTE.

HFD/sgt

(1)

Approved:

STARDIED

SERIALIZED NC

FILED

K

92-113

C-

Sent 8: 29PM Por sub

179

Special

gent in Charg

DocId: 32317521 Page 2

---

