# docid-32295630

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10215-10406

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3267-699

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/16/1966

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

JRO, BKG, REL, ASSOC, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/20/1998 -

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

•COMMENTS:

V9.1

DocId: 32295630

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released unter the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: (A2-1127977

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

5/16/66

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

Approved;

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

92-3267)

(137-7907)

FROM: SAC, LOS ANGELES

(92-113)(P)

(137-2602) -

RE :

JOHN ROSSELLI, aka

AR;

LA 4369-PC

TECIP

37-

Re Boston teletype to Bureau 5/11/66.

JOHN RE TARANTINO,

6239 Orion Avenue, Van Nuys,

California interviewed 5/12/66. MaSS,

He said he did not know the name PHILIPPO SACCO.

He said in about 1923 - 1925, shortly after he began working

at Desmond's (clothing store

in Los Angeles), a young man

came to the store and asked for him by name,

TARANTINO.

approached this man, whom he did not recognize. The man

said, in general,

"I am JOHNNY ROSSELLI. Don't you remember

me?

Your father

used to run a barber shop in East Boston.

I lived behind you. Don't you remember the porches on our

houses.

We used to eat out on the porches and shout back

and forth.

TARANTINO picked out photographs of ROSSELLI taken

in 1925 and 1930 and saiga

"that's JOHNNY".

he said he couldn'tie sure concerning identification of

Later in interview

photographs:

- Bureau

2

3

-

Boston (92-458 ye f8

5312-3261-299

Los Angeles

-105 KET MAY 18 1965

(1 - 137-2632)

NED/mjg

(1])

fixe

Sent

- M

Per

al Agent in Charge

DocId: 32295630 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-113

LA 137-2602

TARANTINO said he remembers a small boy in Boston

who lived back of his own home and he recalled the incidents

ROSSELLI mentioned.

He said he never knew this boy's last

name and when ROSSELLI said, "I'm JOHNNY ROSSELLI"

, he

assumed it

was ROSSELLI's true name. He has not seen

Rossault since 1925, nor has he heara anything concerning him.

TARANTINO said he lived with his parents at 100

Bon in d

Street. Both families lived on second floors.

TARANTINO'S

father, MATTEO TARANTINO, operated a barber shop at the

Cottage Street address and had a pool hall in the rear of

the barber shop, while he lived above the barber shop.

TARANTINO knew nothing concerning ROSSELLI's family.

LINWOOD REEVES, garage parking concessionaire,

Friars Club, Beverly Hills, on 5/16/66,

advised that on

Tuesday, 5/11/66, he picked up ROSSELLI at ROSSELLI's

apartment.

ROSSELLI had a suitcase and a top coat.

He

took ROSSELLI to the office of Dr. VICTOR LANDES in Beverly

Hills and waited for him and then took him to within one

block of Doheny Drive and Wilshire Boulevard in Beverly Hills,

where ROSSELLI left the car.

The office of JAMES CANTILLON, ROSSELLI's attorney,

is located in the Gibralter Square Building on the northwest

corner of Doheny Drive and Wilshire Boulevard.

REEVES said

ROSSELLI mentioned nothing concerning his plans. He said

he has not seen ROSSELLI at the Friars Club since 5/11/66.

A review of school records by the Boston Office

did not disclose a Maverick Street address for the SACCO

family, but this may be because PHILIPPO SACCO was

not yet

in school.

Boston investigation per airtel to Director,

11/12/64, reveals MATTEO TARANTINO, a barber, resided

100

Cottage Street from 1910 to 1912.

LEADS

BOSTON OFFICE

AT BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS. Will reinterview

-2-

DocId: 32295630

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-113

LA 137-2602

Mrs. MARIA SACCO to determine:

Maverick

(a) If and when the SACCO family resided on

Street.

(b) Will determine subsequent addresses of the

SACCO family.

(c) What schools her son, PHILIPPO, attended.

(a) What church PHILIPPO SACCO belonged to.

(e) What PHILIPPO SACCO did from 1917 until about

1923 when he left Boston.

(f) Was he arrested during this period or in

trouble with the police.

(g) Was he employed during this period, and if so

by whom.

(2) Will check any records, such as church records,

which might give further information

concerning the SACCO

family.

(3) Will check marriage records to verify the

marriage of MARIA SACCO tO LIBERATO CIANCULLO in 1922.

MARIA SACCO said a daughter, CARMELLA, was born of this

marriage. Boston school records show

that the parent of

CARMILLA MARY SACCO, who was born 8/7/20 in East Boston,

was MARY SACCO.

SA thỉs

This marriage record may give additional

addresses or list children of MARIA SACCO.

(4) Will check any records which might be suggested

by interview.of MARIA SACCO, which might give additional

information concerning PHILIPPO SACCO.

(5) Will openly search Boston Police Department

records for any additional information concerning PHILIPPO

SACCO.

(6) Will determine whether police jail records for

1922 might still be available which would

reveal

that SACCO

-3-

DocId: 32295630 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Reteased under the Jou F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-113

LA 137-2602

was in jail at this time, it being recalled that TANCREDI

TORTORA stated he first saw ROSSELLI at about this time in a

Boston jail.

The Bureau will be kept advised of pertinent

developments in this matter.

DocId: 32295630

Page 5

---

