# docid-32293599

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10211-10375

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-1141

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/12/1964

8

ABR, MISUR, CONTIN, COSTELLO, CHARLES I., RES, MIAMI

FL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32293599

Page 1

58

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassinátion Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE & 11-14-2017

ED-143 TRev. 4-2-63)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

9010-100

MAY 19A9 LOITION

OSA ORN. RiO, NO, 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Director, FBI

(Bufile 92-2717

JUNE

) DATE: 5/12/64

FROM

SAC, Miami (92-139 Sub II)

S SUBJECT:

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAB=OR VECROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE:

Title ANGELO

BRUNO, aka

Character of Case Anti-Racketeering

Field Office Miami

Symbol Number MM 837-C*

CONK: INDY.

Type. of Surveillance:

(Peohnteal- or

Microphone)

Fia

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

ANGELO BRUNO

20:

Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area.

Winter residence of CHARLES I..

COSTELLO, 12468 North Bayshore

Drive, North Miami, Florida

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Central Technical Plant - Miami Office

70:

SORDED CODY FILED IN

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Initial Authorization

7/27/62

Initial Installation

8/31/62

Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places) 32

None in Miami area

answer following questions:

NA

Is a trunk line utilized?

it 92 - 2717114/08

rigols the surveillance on a switchboara?

82-1964

he merellance an a pull anagerated tir

22

• Bureau

Miami

zistered Mail

JFK • amc

(2)

8 JUN 1

D 1961;

delivere

1964

DocId: 32293599

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote

DATE: 11-14-2017

¿. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

.7.: Il a microphone surveillance Involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One 404B MATE in Florida Room

8. Is the installation part.of a tel-mike? Il so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

NA

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date Information

received. State what use was made of each Item Involved: (Add Insert pages)

(See attached pages)

10.

Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

NO

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

No

14. Cost

of Plant Premises:

80

Rental costs for plant premises: None, monitored at Miami

Central Technical Plant

b.

Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

Five

- 2

DocId: 32293599 Page 3

---

