# docid-32334821

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90118-10180

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2897-87

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO : DL

TITLE:

DATE: 08/19/1959

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

TT

v9.1

HW 45922

DocId: 32334821

Page 1

---

## Page 2

JaD'

PLAIN TEXT

AUGUST 19, 1959

TELETYPE

REC- 59915-9547-81

URGENT

TO SACS, DALLAS, OKLAHOMA CITY

FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

HARRY RAYMOND POPE, AKA., FUGITIVE, IO THREE THO EIGHT

FIVE, WE TWO TWO NINE, UFAP BURGLARY, ADW.

RE OKLAHOMA CITY RADIOGRAM AND TELETYPE BOTH DATED

DESTROYED

OFTIES

8 MAY 22

Оз.

AUGUST EIGHTEEN, LAST. AUTHORITY GRANTED TO PAY UP

TO TWO HUNDRED DOLLARS EXPENSE MONEY, IF NEEDED, TO

PCI

POPE ALLEGEDLY HAS IN HIS POSSESSION

OTHER 4

AT ALL TIMES A TIREE FIVE SEVEN MAGNUN REVOLVER, FORTYFIVE

CALIBER AUTOMATIC, THIRTYEIGHT CALIBER SNUB NOSE REVOLVER

AND SANED OFF SHOTGUN. HE SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED

10-48 A OM AND EXTREMELY DANGEROUS. FRYE ARMED AND DANGEROUS

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

GO. A BERACEIEONS SEE PCIT

Pass fon

anxious to contact PCIT

received information that Peggy Ann Frye

• Frye is a known

associate of Pope and is believed to be with him at the present

time.

Frye requestediPCIL

_to come to home of Frve

saudaPsister in Dallas where Frye would make contact.

PCI Howard has

agreed to come to Dallas Friday night, 8/21/59 for this contact

provided she can contact SA Charles F. Alden who is known to her

Tolson

Belmont

DeLoach

McGuire

Mohr .

Parsons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

and in whom she has complete confidence based upon previous

contact.

SA Alden is proceeding to Dallas to arrive shortly

where he will report to SAC, Dallas and render

all possible assistance in this case.

Oklahoma City requested

Bureau

to PCI

liberity to pay additional $200 expense money, if needed,

who has been paid no money except for expenses to

date.

n view of strong possibility that

Pope is with Frye at

50400 57 19548 YENCE

(See-note con't pg. 2)

HW 45922

DocId: 32336871 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Man.

-.:

in!

Teletype to SACS, Dallas, Oklahoma City

Re: HARRY RAYMOND POPE, aka.

NOTE CONTINUED:

the present time and the fact that if Frye's whereabouts

can be ascertained through PCI [

expenditure of $200, if needed, appears justified.

OTHER 4

10-48 A Ou

EDERAL BUREAU DE INVESTIGATIS

3. S DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICI

COMMUNCATIONS SECTION

AUG 1 9 1959

TELETYPE

-2 -

NH 45922 DocId: 32334821 Page 3

---

