# docid-32570098

## Page 1

FEDERAL BUREND OF

AWESTICATION

DEPARTMENE OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAY : 0 7975

FBI WASH D C 0724 GA PLS TELETYPE

FBI NEWARK

5-40 PM EDST URGENT 5/19/65 E.J.C.

TO

PRECTOR 109-5841 AND WIN YORK YORK UN

• •NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON.

FROM

NEWARK 1105-7006)

Mr.. Tolson

d, Belmos

Mr. Collahan

Mir. Conrad

Mr. Pelt

Tavel

Trotter

Tele.

Room

Wiss Holmes

. Miss Gandy

Intemal Security

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES. LIE CUBA.

37

THIS DATE A REPRESENTATIVE OF NEWARK, NEW JERSEY, POLICE

DEPARTMENT ADVISED THEY HAD RECEIVED A LETTER FROM THE

EDITOR OF *EL CLARIN*, A WEEKLY SPANISH LANGUAGE NEWSPAPER

PUBLISHED AT ELIZABETH, NEW JERSEY TO THE EFFECT THAT ON

MAY TUENTY NEXT AT SIX PM MOTORCADES WILL LEAVE: FROM ELIZABETH,

PERTH AMBOY, PATERSON, NEWARK, JERSEY CITY AND UNION CITY

ALL IN NEU JERSEY DESTINED TO CENTRAL PARK, NEW YORK CITY:

THEY WILL MEET IN FRONT OF JOSE MARTI STATUE AND END WITH.

SINGING OF PATRIOTIC HYMNS. THE PURPOSE OF THE DEMONSTRATION

AS TO SUPPORT PRESIDENT JOHNSONS POLICIES IN THE DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC, VIETNAM, AND IN COMMEMORATION OF CUBAN INDEFENDENCE

DAY.

Letter head Mend.

NEW YORK ADVISE BSS

NYPD.

LHM TO FOLLOW. JROl5P

END

WA.• RELAY NY JRL

FBI WASH DC

*OWUN 41965

* BuReau of SpeciAl SeRvices,

CC 111 109258404023 epARTNent

place

RELAVED TO NY

109-UFY

105-110428-

---

## Page 2

4. 5-11'3 (1-10-61)

40

Domestic Intelligence Division

INFORMATIVE NOTE

5-19-65

Time Square by lying in the Street

They will carry Cuban flags-and

marines to Cuba. Mr.

signs asking United Tubolho send

advised State of this' information.

Night Supervisor, New York,

Arthur Nehrbass

instructed to fur-

nish this additional information

to New York City Police Department.

| NH 45825

DocId: 32570098

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CHORET 223-10145

$O EM XORI OCIA HAS, NOCOBJECTION TObE

ET CUTE MODT PERELEASETAS TO PERORIATION

MIRULE AIDGRATA THISHONUMENT

TWE COASE DA TATUE IN 1P-93998

DIO-

P-Ta-00

DORAR MCLA NO SE PRET

HH 45825

DocId: 32570098

Page 3

---

