# docid-32328272

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/22/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90071-10072

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-584-125

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: DOS

TITLE:

DATE: 06/02/1959

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

ANTI FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LHM

v9.1

NW 45712

DocId: 32328272

Page 1

28

---

## Page 2

Anti-Fidel Castro Activities

COULDEL

leader.

This group is reportedly contributing financially

and intellectually to the anti-Castro movement,

Reportedly,

Dro Antonio Lamas Parra, married to the niece of Batista and

former director of a mental institution near Havana, Cuba, and

Fernando del Busto, a Cuban attorney, are connected with this

(v)

group.

Reportedly,

Roberto Mendoza, another member of this

group, gave $50,000 on May 27, 1959, to Pozo for General Pedraza

A source with whom insufficient contact has been had

to determine his reliability advised on May 26, 1959, that a

group of Cuban exiled professional men including Lamas and

Busto met on May 25, 19590.

According to this source,. Lamas

believes that fidel Castro cannot last more than two months.

Lamas reportedly was interested in legally chartering a plone

to fly to the Dominican Republic in order to deliver a confidential

report, to General Pedraza.

The source was of the opinion that

this report related to organized plans against Castro.

Reportedly, Lamas desired to depart for the Dominican Republic

on June 5, 1959, and

to return on June 7, 1959.

According to

the source tomas is a Batista follower but is supporting

Pedraza.

The source learned that Pedraza reportedly had come

to the United States three times since January l, 1959, wearing

the uniform of a Dominican naval officer. le

On May 26, 1959, an informant who has furnished

reliable information in the past advised that Cuban investigators

have learned that a group of Batista exiles, under the leadership

of Fernando del Busto, had several boats,

identity unknown to

the Mtant River.

a Cuban Air Force investigator, recently sent on agent to the

Dominican Republic and learned that Batista gave $25,000,000

to Pedraza who is in charge of training Cubans for an invasion.

of Cubc.. The informant reported that Castro will attack the

Dominican Republic first if he learns that the Dominican Republic

actually plans to attack Cuba.

(B)(U)

NOTE:

The informant who is in a position to furnish reliable

information is General Manuel Benitez.

The source with whom

insutlicient contact has been had to determine his reliability is

PS'I

The informant who has furnished reliable

info in the past is l 635-So(E) (4)

OVAL

- 3-

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 45712 DocId: 32328272

Page 2

---

