# docid-32173545

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

walt.

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10177-10364

RECORD SERIES: SA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

89-67-401

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 03/30/1964

PAGES:

289

SUBJECTS :

SEE FBI 62-109060-2793

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/08/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32173545

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE; - 11-14-2017

Roport Form

+12 263(5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Roportiag Offloa

SCNFIDERTIAL

Ottos of Ordeta

Deto

Intestigattro Pertod

DALLAS

DALLAS

3/30/64

11/22/63-3/26/64

TITLE OF CASE

Boport sado by

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY,

CHARACTER OF CASB

NOVEMBER 22, 1963, DALLAS, TEXAS

Tipod DI

ds

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION

CONCERNING

REFERENCE:

8-22-98

CLASSIFIED BY 5668

SUO/KST

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

Report of SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING, 12/18/63,

at DallaSIFK)

-P-

1-16-93

$803/10/GCL

JFK

ENCLOSURES: TO THE BUREAU:

Enclosed herewith and attached to appropriate copies of

this report for the Bureau are three photographs of Exhibits D-98,

D-99 and D-127.

Two copies of these exhibits are listed as enclosures

for the President's Commission in the body of this report with

those copies being attached to the copies of the report that are

designated as President's Commission copies.

SOURCES WHOSE IBENTITIES

ARE CONCEALED HEREIN

HAVE FURNISHED RELIABLE

TiNFOENATIONLIAL THE PAST

ApproveSCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE

DENIENTEL

Special Areas

87E7-

401

In Charge

Do not write to speccas bator

10 - Bureau

(62-109060)

(EnC. 9) (RM)

- New Orleans (89-69) (Info.)

89-67-

398

San Antonio (89-67) (Info.)

-

Dallas (89-43)

3/26/71

assified by 2D4) DEvEl

хетиди

Date of De.

Daterflassification

danie

Property ol FBI - This soport in locmod to you by tha

Date Choil main face

Outrigh

ho bo dist

agassy to which locked

DocId: 32173545 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREU

DI 89-43

In this regard the Bureau may desire to remove the

enclosure page from those copies of this report that are

disseminated to agencies other than the President's Comnission.

LEADS :

All leads in this case have been set forth by tele-

type or airtel and are not being restated herein

NEW ORLEANS AND SAN ANTONIO: (INFORMATION)

One copy of this report is being furnished each of the

New Orleans and San Antonio Offices for information in view of

the extensive investigation conducted in those Divisions.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

LEONARD SHAFER, Director of Convention Sales. Dunes

Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada, mentioned on page 19 of instant

report, often utilizes the telephone in the coffee shop of the

Dunes Hotel for business calls. He has, for the past approxi

mately six years, been a symbol informant of the Las Vegas

office.

LEONARD SHAFER fits the description set forth in the

handwritten, anonymous letter which was sent to ED MONTGOMERY

in San Francisco.

The confidential source abroad referred to on page 20

of instant report is Chief Inspector BILL HILL, Special Branch,

New Scotland Yard, who furnished the information on a strictly

confidential basis. X

The BOB JOINER referred to by GLOVER BEE BELLAH On

page 45 of instant report is identical with BOBBY SAVELLE JOINER®

President of the Indignant White Citizens Council, Grand Prairie,

Texas (Dallas file 157-269). JOINER was arrested by the Dallas

Police Department while picketing at the Trade Mart, Dallas,

- B.

COVER PAGE

SECRET

5789-67-401

DocId: 32173545 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC. 2T07 Hotel.

DATE: 11=14/2017

DI 89-43

The confidential sources

referred to on page 188 of

instant report are anonymous sources of the Detroit Office.

The confidential source abroad referred to on page 197

of instant report is DI. GUENTER NOWAY, Chief of the Left wing

Radicalism Division of the Bundesant Fuer Verfassungschutz

(BFV West German Federal Agency for the Protection of the consti-

tution) SIt is the desire of the BEVthat its officials not be

named and identified in communications which might become

available to the public

BRACKETS ARE CLASS, FED pER BONN EC

DATED 7-28-48

The confidential source abroad referred to on page

197A 1s Legat, Bonn, Germany.

The source who requested his identity be protected.

referred to on page 207 of instant report. 18 Reverend THOMAS

ARMSTRONG. a Negro in Jackson, Mississippi.

In connection with this report it should be borne in

mind that the Dallas Office has a separate case in connection

with the shooting of LEE HARVEY OSWALD, captioned "JACK I. RUBY.

aka.? LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka. (Deceased) - VICTIM: CR". Dallas

file 44-1639, Bureau file 44-24016.

It is also pointed out that the Dallas Office has a

separate case captioned "IES HARVEY OSWALD, aka; INTERNA

SECURITY • RUSSIA - CUBA", Dallas file 100-10461, Bureau file

105-82555. Numerous communications have been received bearing

the assassination caption (instant case) which contain infor-

mation concerning OSWALD and/or his connection with the

assassination and such comnications are being flled and re

ported in the case bearing the OSwAld caption.. For the most

part, miscellaneous allegations bearing on the assassination

are

reported in instant case and ald others in the LEE HARVEY OSWAiD

case. All information

pertaining to items of evidence in con

nection with the assassination related to OSWALD in any way are

being reported under the LEE HArVey OswAld caption.

The overlap in the period of this report with that of

previous reports. in this matter was occasioned by the fact that

material with respect to certain allegations

was withheld until

such time as the complete resolving of the particular allegation

could be included in one report. The contents of this report

-D'=

COVER PAGE

SECREI

5789-67-146001

DocId: 32173545 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

DI 89-43

The confidential source abroad referred to on page 197

of instant report 1s[Dr. GUENTHER NOLLAU, Chief of the Left wing

Radicalism Division of the Bundesamt Fuer Verfassungschutz

BiV west German federas Agency for the Protection ot the Consti

ution) It is the desire of the (Brv Zhat its officials not b

named and identified in communications which might become

available to the public.

BRACKETS ARE CLASSIFIED pER BUNN

EC DATED 7-28-48

The source who requested his identity be protected.

referred to on page 207 of instant report, is Reverend THOMAS

ARMSTRONG, a Negro In Jackson, MissIssippIE 1)

In connection with this report it should be borne in

mind that the Dallas Office has a separate case in connection

with the shooting of LEE HARVEY OSWALD, captioned "JACK L. RUBY.

aka.¿ LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka. (Deceased) - VICTIM; CR", Dallas

file 44-1639, Bureau file 44-24016.

It is also pointed out that the Dallas office has a

separate case captioned "LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka.; INTERNAL

SECURITY - RUSSIA - CUBA", Dallas file 100-10461, Bureau file

105-82555. Numerous communications have been received bearing

the assassination caption (instant case) which contain infor-

mation concerning OSWALD and/or his connection with the

assassination and such communications are being filed and re-

ported in the case bearing the OSWALD caption. For the most

part, miscellaneous allegations bearing on the assassination are

reported in instant case and all others in the LEE HARVEY OSWALD

case. All information pertaining to items of evidence in con-

nection with the assassination related to OSWALD in any way are.

being reported under the LEE HARVEY OSWALD caption.

The overlap in the period of this report with that of

previous reports in this matter was occasioned by the fact that

material with respect to certain allegations was withheld until

such time as the complete resolving of the particular allegation

could be included in one report. The contents of this report

COVER PAGE

SECRET

5789-67-4601

DocId: 32173545 Page 5

---

