# docid-32332334

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90101-10075

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-4194-5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/04/1964

4

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

NN 45876 DocId: 32332334 Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

"FD-36 (Rev. 10-29-63)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date: 3/4/64

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

Director, FBI

SAC, Miami (92-463)

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA, aka

AR

On 3/ 2/64, MM 913-C advised he had received informa-

tion from one DAVID SIEGEL, who was residing in room 748 of. the

Fontainebleau Hotel, indicating there was a large amount of

counterfeit money available in Miami. SIEGEL subsequently fur-

nished on the morning of 3/3/64, one $20.00 counterfeit bill

to the informant, who furnished

the same to this office.

informant, who previously knew SIEGEL when both served time in

the Atlanta Federal Penitentiary, learned that the individual

who had the counterfeit money in Miami was named "JOE"' and that 2

he was from Miami and Pittsburgh. Informant did not know"JOE's'"

full name nor address.

The informant did learn that "JOE" lived

in a nice house on Miami Beach and was either Italian or Jewish.

SIEGEL advised the informant that he had been to "JOE's"'

house and had seen 85 bundles of $20.00 bills, each bundle con-

taining $20,000 for a total of $1,700,000.

Bureau (1 - 137-4866) (AM)

- Miami (1 • 137-2117)(1 - 66-2586)

HWS : amc

(6)

BEC 10

EX - I17

WHICH

92-4194-5

72 MAR 5 1964

Approved:

Sent

_ M

Per

-RECORDED COPY FILED IN / 37-4186

NW 45876 DocId: 32332334 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM. 92-463

OTHER 4

On the afternoon of 3/3/64, the informant advised

SIEGEL, acting as an intermediary for another individual, was

going to put up $1,300 in good money for $6,500 of the counterfeit

$20.00 bills. The

good money was reportedly to be delivered to

SIEGEL at approximately 3:00 p.m., on 3/3/64, at which time ar-

rangements would be made for the delivery of

the counterfeit

money

The informant was going to attempt to identify "JOE"

as he contemplated being with

1 A surveillance by bureau

Agents at the residence of JOE MEROLA reflected he arrived on

the afternoon of 3/3/64 at his residence at 3:15 p.m. He re-'

mained for seven minutes, thereafter departed, and proceeded

alone in his car to the vicinity of Meridian and Arthur Godfrey

Road on Miami Beach. For security reasons it was not possible

to determine whether MEROLA carried anything from his residence,

nor his immediate action following his arrival in the vicinity

of Arthur Godfrey Road.

MM 913-C subsequently advised that he had gone with

SIEGEL to the Royal Castle on Arthur Godfrey Road, which is

located at 780 Arthur Godfrey Road, and thereafter proceeded

to a vacant area near there and found in the bushes a package

containing $6,500 in counterfeit money. SIEGEL, who owed the

informant some money, then gave the informant ten of the counterfeit

$20.00 bills as part payment.

It was previously learned from Departmental Attorney

WILLIAM S. KENNEY, at Miami, that MEROLA had advised him that

PHIL MAINER and his brother from Cleveland had a large amount

of counterfeit money and that MEROLA had actually furnished

to KENNEY some of the counterfeit bills.. MEROLA, with KENNEY,

discussed the matter with Secret Service at that

time and KENNEY

advised that he was displeased with MEROLA inasmuch as MEROLA

would not go along with the government in an attempt to recover

the money and arrest the individuals with the same.

KENNEY ad-

vised he instructed MEROLA at that time to have nothing to do

with the matter and he should not handle it.

- 2 -

HW 45876 DocId:32332334 Page 3

---

