# docid-32298208

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10220-10484

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-172621-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

09/14/1967

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DE PAZ, ELENA CARRO, EMP, ASSOC WITH LHO, POLIT,

LEFTIST A/O COMMUNIST ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32298208

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

B 109

OR

TION

TED

LOWN

00

SEP 291967

Tolson -

DeLoach

Mohr -

Bishop

Casper -

Callahan -

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

SAC,

San

Juan

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOGUMENT, GMB 8/596

DECI

AMED 31

668 SLO/GOL

PA CA

131.92

Te)"

8): 10/2/67

rector, FBI

172601

Wet 1 - Mr. Harrell

f2195

RICARDO GUERRA TEJADA

IS - MEXICO

SEGRE

said by 5668 Stopse

Declassif

ReMIxlet 9/14/67 with a dual caption including

(JFK)

above subject and

"Arturo Melendez Lopez,

SM

PRN,

* four

copies of which are enclosed for your office herewith.

A review of Bufiles regarding Tejada revealed that

Confidential Informant 7012-1 (reliable) furnished informa

tion to the Legat, Mexico City, in 1946 rogarding the

Instituto De Intercambio Cultural Mexico-Ruso (institute of

Mexiçan-Russian Cultural Exchange) (IICIR). The JICUR was

described by reports of its former officers as being organized

to propagate Russian culture in Mexico and Mexican culture

in Russia with negotiations being handled through the Soviet

Institute for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries

(VOKS). The informant noted that during August, 1946,

bad given a reception in Mexico at which one Ricardo Guerra,

President of the Federation of University Students, was in

attendance.

(64-30410-17)

NEX-109 (reliable) furnished information on 8/11/61

stating that communist and Marxist elements had gained control

over the broadcasting station at the National Autonomous

University of Mexico (UNAll) and were carrying out daily

pro-Soviet, pro-Cuban and anti-U. S. propaganda programs.

Among the collaborators of the communist directors of the

COMM - FBI

station was listed Di. Ricardo Guerra: (64-200-221-Sub 8-119)

The Central Intelligence Agency by information

report dated 6/11/63 (CS-3/550107), classified "Confidential,"

furnished intormation relative to the make up of the summer

school faculty of the Universidad Obrera de Mexico (UOM

Workers University of Mexico) which was operated and controlled

by the Partido Popular Socialista (PPS - Popular Socialist

Party) •

Included on the staff was one Ricardo Guerra who

was described as a Marxist

communist and as a professos

of philosophy at the UNAW.

Enclosures - 4

(V4)

(100-359378-913)

DATE. 5/24/78

COPIES MADE DATE. SO Y

ECORDED COPY FILED IN

1 = 105-151059

(Melendez)

I a 105-157833

(Castellanos)

ERH: brr:

€6

250CT

FOR REVIEW,

(SEE BUFILE (2-117.03)

THREE

TÉLETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32298208

Page 2

---

## Page 3

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2101 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 105-6293

SECRET

GUERRA commented ARTURO MELENDEZ waS at the University

of Puerto Rico and GONZALEZ confirmed this fact stating that

MELENDEZ was giving courses at the University of Puerto Rico.

GONZALEZ also said that one "JUTO" (ph), whom GUERRA had

known in Paris, was also there. GUERRA remarked JUTO's wife was

a very handsome woman and GONZALEZ indicated he had known her in

Puerto Rico and added that she had a younger sister who was even

more handsome. (

GONZSEZ suggested that GUERRA get in touch with one

MONA LISA

pointing

ort that this woman had very good connections there. (K)U,

PEREZ, MACHIN (ph) upon his arrival in Puerto Rico

GUERRA asked whether GONZALEZ had ARTURO MELENDEZ'

address, but GONZALEZ stated he did not, adding that he had

not

heard from MeLENdEz subsequent to MELENdEZ? departure from

Mexico. ($ (4)

GUERRA and GONZALEZ terminated their contact by

making a

date for a chat at UNAN.

#)

According to previous information received from CIA,

it is known that LEOPOLDO ZEA holds a sort of administrative

position at UNAM over the direction of professors there. su)

Mexico City Office files contain the following

information concerning RICARDO GUERRA:

On 7/14/59 PSI JAVIER,

reliable, made available a flyer

entitled "The Railroad Conflict for a Just Solution."

This flyer

was signed by RICARDO GUERRA among others.

The flyer criticized

the Mexican Government for jailing strike leaders and said the

Mexican Government was false and deceitful.

The flyer related that

the strikers were not subversive.

In this

flyer GUERRA was

described as a philosophy professor.

Many of the signers of this

flyer were known Partido Comunista Mexicano (Communist Party of

Mexico - PCM) members and members of the Partido Popular Socialista

(Popular Socialist Party - PPS) :

- 3-

S

DocId: 32298208 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 105-6293

SESHET

The published statutes of the PCM state

"The Communist Party of Mexico has as its

final objectives to construct socialism and

to build the Communist society in Mexico."

The Partido Popular Socialista has been

publicly identified by its Secretary

General, VICENTE LOMBARDO TOLEDANO, aS

a Marxist Party.

On 3/14/62 MEX-109, reliable, made available pamphlets,

one of which was printed by and concerned Universidad Obrera de

Mexico (Workers University of Mexico - UOM) which is controlled

by the PPS:

The pamphlet was entitled "Activities in July 1962."

The pamphlet related that on Saturday, 7/1/62 in the CLEMENTE

OROZCO room of UOM a seminar of Marxist studies would be

initiated under the direction of Dr. RICARDO GUERRA with a

lecture entitled "The Communist Manifesto." The pamphlet further

related that persons interested in this seminar must register

at VOM and the seminar would continue uninterrupted throughout

the year.

The Mexico City daily newspaper "Novedades" printed

a full page ad on 4/1/58 praising the promulgation of the order

nationalizing the petroleum industry on 12/27/39 and noting that

the nationalization of the petroleum industry in Mexico had

contributed to the development of Mexico. The ad stated that

Mexican intellectuals could not permit the nationalization of

the petroleum industry in Mexico to go unnoticed. Among the

signers of the ad was RICARDO GUERRA

The Mexico City daily newspaper "Excelsior" printed

an article on I1/24/60 asking for the release from prison of

DAVID ALFREDO SIQUERIOS:

Among the signers requesting ALFREDO'S

release was RIGARDO GUERRA of the School of Philosophy of UNAM.

It is noted that DAVID ALFREDO SIQUERIOS is an inter-

national known muralist and a long time leader of the PeM.

On 12/25/65 ELENA (CARRO DEXPAZ, a Mexican writer

residing in Mexico City, alleged to

American

Embassy Political

officer in/Mexico City that she had seen LEE HARVEY OSWALD,

-4-

RET

DocId: 32298208 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 741 USc 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNCLASSIFIGO

14/18/96

MEX 105-6293

SECRET

assassin of President JOHN F: KENNEDY, at a party she believed on

9/2 or 3/63 attended by employees of the Cuban Embassy and

other leftists and communists:

She said that RICARDO GUERRA,

a communist, and his wife ROSARIO CASTELLANOS were suppose to

have attended this party but had declined to do so.

The records of the Visa Section, American Embassy,

Mexico, D.f., Mexico, and contained the following information.

concerning RICARDO GUERRA TEJADA:

He was the bearer of Mexican official passport 0-810

issued on 8/9/67 valid until 2/8/68. He was born on 2/10/27 in

Mexico, D.F., Mexico, has brown hair and eyes, is five feet

seven inches

tant, a

Mexican citizen and a professor at UNAM:

He was issued a visa

at the request of the Mexican Secretariat

of Foreign Relations to travel to the United States on an

official mission for UNAM on 8/9/67.

Foregoing visa information should not be used at a

public proceeding without authorization of the United States

Department of State.

With regard to LEOPOLDO ZEA, SA 515 -S, reliable,

advised on 3/31/53 that ZEA was active in the youth movement

of the PCM.

On 8/29/55 SD 897-S, reliable, advised that ZEA was a

charter member of the Communist Party front organization known

as the Ciroulo de Estudios Mexicanos (Mexican Study Circle):

The Mexico City daily newspaper "El Universal" printed

an article on 7/10/54 relating that LEOPOLDO ZEA was a member

of the Sociedad de Amigos de Guatemala (SAG - Society of

Friends of Guatemala):

MEX-1, reliable, has advised that the SAG was a

Communist Party front organization.

CIA memorandum to the Director, FBI, dated 4/4/61,

classified SECRET, related that a fairly reliable source, who

obtained his information from a prominent member of the Guatemalan

Communist Party, reported in October 1958 that LEOPOLDO ZEA

AGUILAR was one of eight prominent members of the PCM who acted

as liaison between the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City and communist

parties of the Central American countries: (EM)

- 5 a

RET

DocId: 32298208 Page 5

---

