# docid-32332364

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90102-10011

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 9-57985-3

Released under the John

stion on et 1952

i44 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/20/1974

'PAGES:

35

SUBJECTS:

MAX LESNICK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

'RPT

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32332364

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

• FD-203 (ReV. 1-7-72)

FEDERAL PUREAU OF INVE TIGATION

FELICO MINAR; CAFICE

MIAMI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

UNION MUNDIAL ANTICOMUNISTA

(HORLD ANTI-COMMUNIST UNION)

(UIA)

DATE

SEP 2 0 1974

INVESTIGATIVE FERIOD

6/13/74 - 9/11/74

REPORT MADE BY

SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

thm

6-8-92

UNSUBS, &ki

Union Mundial Anticomunista

(Horld Anti-Coumunist Union)

- CUBA;

EXTORTION

Classifed by

9803 RADISA

DaciEssity GRi

GAOR

SAXULESNICK, &KI

C.N.

Max Legnik - VICTI

30,952

-

-

REFERENCES:

-

-

-

Miani report of SA GEORGE E, DAVIS, JI., 7/23/74.

FBI Laboratory report, 8/12/74.

Miant letter to Bureau, 7/17/74.

Bureau Identification Division report, 8/20/74.

- P.

LEADS

MIAMI

A'!. IEOFNATION CONTAINEU

OLASSIFIED

NERA SHOWN

CIMERWISE

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Op1A1OR.COMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

W111 congult AUSA GRAFTON WILSON for prosecutive

_ NONE

FUG.

ACQUIT

FINES

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

CASE HAS BEEN:

TALS

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR DYES EINO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

DYES LINO

105-269

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

GO-Bureau (105-269491)

1- USA, Mian1

(Attn: AUSA GRAFTON WILSON)

4- Miami

(105-22159)

(1-9-2720)

(1- 105-22094)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

9-57985-3

NOT RECORDED

199 J SEt 23 1974

REC-89

ST-106

Original Filed

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

(JFK)

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Ford.

How twil

210

• T

COVER PAGE

54460

DocId: 32332364 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LTI

MM 105-22159

ADMINISTRATIVE

ECANYDENTIAL

On 8/8/74,(MM 2960-pSl, who is well informed

concerning some Cuban exile activity,

reported that

MARIETA FANDINO Of "In Verdad" and MIGUEL ANGEL

they should sabotage stores in which "Replica" is sold.

FANDINO 1s Using PERAZA and other people who work for

"La Verdad."

On 8/16/74, UM 2960-PSI reported that many

people in the Cuban community belleve that MARIETA FANDINO

ordered a phony attempt against her own life by some of

her associates in an attempt to bring pressure against

MAX LESNICK.

Following this attempt, she published a

number of articles directed against LESNICK and implying

that he had something to do with this attack.

It is to be noted that Miami newspapers carried

articles showing a number of bullet holes which had allegedly

been fired into a car driven by FANDINO,

On 9/6/74, MM 1550-KS, who is acquainted with

LUIS TORNES, MAX LESNICK and many other Cuban exiles in the

Miant ares, reported the following information:

In July, 1974, MARIETA FANDINO, chief spokeswoman

and conspirator of UMA

announced that she was the victim

of a murder attempt while driving her car with another UMA

member, MIGUEL ANGEL PERAZA, Several shots were fired into

her car.

FANDIND and PERAZA subsequently claimed to the

police that the shots were fired from a late model Thunderbird

which is the same type of car driven by MAX LESNICK.

MM 1550-KS learned fron TORNES that the shots were

actually fired from a car driven by another UMA member,

ALBERTO ORDONaZ, & car and Jewel thief.

ARTINEL de CASTRO with & 45 caliber handgun,

while ORDONEZ was driving, with the consent and cooperation

of FANDINO and PERAZA.: MARTINEZ is also a member of UMA and

is reported to have participated in attacks against Cuban

Fla

Cuba

Ka Pedro Martinez

Castro

COVER PAGE

pon

181.7426

54460

DocId: 32332364

Page

3

---

## Page 4

мН 105-22159

CONFIDENTIAL

markets distributing "Replica."

TORNES has confided to MM 1550-KS that MARTINEZ

is responsible for the bombing of the latin Chamber. of

Commerce

which occurred on 5/27/74, two weeks after

Replica" was bombed.. MM 1550-KS said that UlA has clatned

credit for the bombings of "Replica," the latin Chamber of

Commerce office, and the Cuban Muntelpalities on lest

Flagler

Street, Miant, Florida.

MM 1550-kS reported that the hard-core memberg

of UMA are MARIETA FANDINO, MIGUEL ANGEL PERAZA and AUREA

POGGIO.

MM 1550-KS said that PEDRO MARTINEZ CASTRO 1E A1S0

responsible for throwing red paint at the cuban markets

which sell "Replica."

TORNES,

according to this source,

disclaims respongibility for the bombing of the latin Chamber

of Commerce.

On 9/3/74, MM 2960-PSI advised that FANDINO dis

closed that an individual came to her office and told her

that: WA was being dissolved; this indlvidual was tall and

dark. FANDINO did not elaborate on why this was being done

or the identity of the individual who furnished this informa-

tion to her.

The source expressed the opinion that FANDINO

is bohind UMA and has decided to dissolve the group because

the FBI has become actively Involved in the investigation of

CONN

RESTAT

D.

COVER PAGE

1: 1-26

HH 54460

DocId: 32332361

Page 4

---

