# docid-32292328

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10209-10104

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-421

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/31/1962

1

GAL, RES, GAMBLING, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292328

389

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-41 (Rev. 6-2-61)

DECODED COPY

• Radio

xx Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr _

Callahan

Conrad®

DeLoach

Evans -

Malone.

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel _

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram.

Gandy -

DEFERRED

TO

DIRECTOR

1=31-62

REY

3:24 AM

RUL.

FROM SAC, CHICAGO

31.0652

ALEX WAS, AKA. ARO DAILY SUMMARY. OG 6502-0 # ADVISED THAT

IN CONFERENCE WITH AN UNKNOWN PERSON IN HIS APARTMENT

ON JANUARY 25 LAST. THIS UNKNOWN PERSON WAS COMPLAINING TO

ALEX THAT THE SHERIFF AND STATES ATTORNEY'S OFFICES ARE MAKING

ALL KINDS OF ARRESTS AND THAT THEY HAVE EVERYONE SNITCHING ON

EACH OTHER. THIS PERSON STATED THAT THEY ARE HITTING GAMBLING

AND LOOKING AT IT FROM ALL ANGLES. HE MENTIONED TO ALEX THAT

THERE ARE ABOUT 45 $250 GAMBLING STAMPS ISSUED IN THE CHICAGO

AREA AND THE LIQUOR COMMISSION IS GOING TO CALL THEM ALL IN AND

HAVE THEM SHOW CAUSE WHY THEIR LICENSES SHOULD NOT BE REVOKED.

HE TOLD ALEX HE WAS GOING TO QUIT BECAUSE "THE DOOR IS NOT OPEN

ANY PLACE®" ALEX SAID HE WOULD LOOK INTO THE MATTER AND TOLD

THE PERSON TO CALL "KLUTZ" AT THE BARBER SHOP. IN REGARD TO

KLUTZ, CG 6272-0 ADVISED THAT SEVERAL MONTHS AGO KLUTZ WAS ONE

OF ALEX: TOP GAMBLING LIEUTENANTS UNDER LOUIS BRIATTA. AS

SUCH KLUTZ WAS IN CHARGE OF ALL THE INDIVIDUAL BOOKMAKERS IN

ALEX: DISTRICT AND ALSO MADE COLLECTIONS FROM THEM. ALEX

ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

RECEIVED:

4:33 AM

REC- 13

92-3183-431

9 JAN 8811962

O7 FEb 6

1952

the intelligence co

no protect the Bureau a see ted outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suital

DocId: 32292328 Page 2

---

