# docid-32314059

## Page 1

Released under the John f. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10334-10194

RECORD SERIES:

NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-660-664

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 06/11/1962

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

MEYER LANSKY (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32314059

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE:

71-11-2017

FBI

Transmit the following in

Date: 6/11/62

PLAIN TEXT

Type in plain text or codes

Via

AIRTEL

Priority or Method of Mailing

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2831)

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (92-660)

SUBJECT: MEYER LANSKY, aka

The following information was obtained from

NY 3655-C* on the following date.

Extreme care and caution should be used.

concerning information furnished by this informant, and if

the information is used in any manner, it should be

paraphrased so as not to compromise this valuable informant.

Date of Activity

5/31/62

Date Received

5/31/62

TEDDY LANSKY mentioned that when she is in

NYC, she usually has her hair done at the new hairdresser

shop in Cedarhurst, Long Island, which she described as

a seventy thousand dollar shop owned by an Israeli.

also uses the hairdresser on Madison Avenue between 72nd

Street and 73rd Street.

3 - Bureau (92-2831)

1

- Boston (92-144) (Info)

2

- Miami (92-102)

1

- New York (92-2161)

1

- New York (92-2164)

- New York (92-1504)

1 - New York

(58-1232)

New York (137-7793)

* New

York 692-660)

92-660-664

SEARCHED

INDEXED

SEMAIZED LENIED.

221

FBI - NEW YORK

K.P. Naitner 40

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

EPH:/c

(13)

Sent

Per

55 gam.

DocId: 32314059 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-660

MORRIS

"SANDRA (LANSKY) knows you're here, but she

doesn't know where.

MEYER discusses whether or not he should see

her and all advise him not to see her, but to call her.

MORRIS

"(FRANK) BREHENEY called me this morning. He

wanted to know how you were."

MEYER

"The doctor must have told him.....unless BABE

called him.

"Just shows you, you never know. Now there's

FRANK. Look how he ended up."

MORRIS

"Well I don't know. He's a very nervous

fellow. He's got more money than God. He'll

never spend the money."

MEYER

MORRIS

"You're right."

"You should see where he lives, a nine thousand

dollar shack in the Bronx with his sister."

BOBBY

MEYER

BOBBY

"He's a very religious guy."

"DIC SANDRA seem all mixed up."

"Oh you know;

She called me at the ticket

office, of all places MEYER.

"I was talking to HARRY. He spent a few weeks

in the (inaudible) Derby. He did very good

there.

(inaudible;

Monterery mentioned) he gets

very shakey when he's talking about money.

On 6/6/62, NY 3386-C-TE advised that BOBBY BLANCHE

hangs out at the ticket agency at 53rd Street and Broadway.

Informant stated that when SANDRA LANSKY was trying to

contact BOBBY BLANCHE, she telephoned JACK SHERMAN of

the Hollywood Ticket Agency, who, in turn, gave her the

telephone number of the ticket agency at 53rd Street and

Broadway. Informant stated that when SANDRA LANSKY contacted

-9-

/ DocId: 32314059 Page 3

---

## Page 4

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-660

BLANCHE at the latter agency, BLANCHE berated her for

contacting him there and instructed her never to do that

again.

Informant added that BLANCHE has not been seen

at the latter ticket agency since the above incident.

NY 3386-C-TE also advised that PAUL LANSKY,

subject's son, was due in NYC on 6/76/62, to v1s1t

subject.

UNSUB: IT

(apparently on crutches, remarks about falling

• out of a

bus and mentions FErE SISKIND)

MEYER

"He wound up with a heart attack."

UNSUB II

"I owe him a couple of thousand."

The NYO will continue efforts to properly

evaluate information being furnished by NY 3655-c* and

the Bureau will be immediately kept advised of all

Important activities concerning this informant.

SUBJECT SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

-10--

DocId: 32314059

Page 4

---

