# docid-32319340

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992

(41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

3/31/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10368-10474

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-150X1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BRYANT

TO: DIRECTOR

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/14/1993

4

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/01/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC FACS

v9.1

DocId: 32319340

102

Page

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

310

December 14, 1993

Director Freeh:

OJFK of 1992

-JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS COLLECTION ACT

OF 1992

(THE ACT) ; PUBLIC LAW (P.L.) 102-526

DECLASSIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS

Classified "Secret" in its astiraty..

Under the stringent requirements of P.L. 102-526 we

have processed documents which are ready for release.

These documents contain information which reveal that

we had investigations and sensitive coverages of the CPUSA

headquarters, and foreign establishments such as the Tass News

agency in New York and the soviet Embassy in washington, D. C..

including pre-FISA technical coverage on Tass. [S

Other documents indirectly identify our two principal

SOLO assets who acted as liaison and were an integral part of the

funding

mechanism between the CPUSA and the Communist Party of

the Soviet Union. Both are deceased, but the widow of SOLO

asset, Morris Childs, requested by attached letter that we not

elease any information that reveals the relationship of herself

her husband and brother-in-law with the FBI until six months

after her death.

A response to the letter is being prepared.

Mrs. Childs is writing a book about the SOLO operation.

Morris Childs died, Gus Hall, head of the CPUSA, advised an asset

that he had learned that the

FBI attended the funeral services,

therefore, he knew Morris Childs had worked for the FBI.

No damage to ongoing operations will result from these

releases. Minimal damage is done to national security interests.

Every effort will be made to release all information

that does not harm national security interests.

The Attorney General is being advised of

the office of Intelligence Policy and Review because Cere-DYsACS

electronic surveillances /were authorized by previous

General.

These coverages and information from two of the SOLO

sources have been the subject of Attorney General claims of

Privilege in past legal actions against the FBI.

AIL INFORMATION CONTAINED

624-HQ-10292058159,

Bryant

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIPTED EXCEP?

WEISRE SHOWN OTHERNISE.

Classinned by

G-3

7/16/95

CLASSIFIED BY: JULR-SLO MEL

Declassify on

DADR

SECRET

FILE

"In bar

REASON:

1.5

DECLASSIFY ON: X• (i\61

5-Baryeamdbar

4012

DocId: 32319310 Page 2

r.

---

