# docid-32308456

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10294-10314

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

105-110398-1ST NR 7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

Released under the Johi

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

DATE: 07/02/1962

PAGES:

6

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

SUBJECTS :

GPH, LL, ASSOC, ACA, MEETING, BAGGS, WILLIAM,

EDITOR, MM DAILY NEWS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32308456

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CHAF8E

БрЕтАс

1l6

Nd Claren

FBI.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Date:

July 2, 1962

V.

Offrans

Mr. Maime

Transmit the followingier

MECHTON AND/ORAIN TEXT

Mr. Rosen ea

MA ISFORIATION (Type in plain text oracode)

MET:

Mini Salliva

Mr.

Tanet.

EN THIS DOCUMENT.

Via

AIRTEL

GmB

1-24-qu quAIR MAIL

KATI

Mr. Truster.

Pole. Room

ALL INFURMATION CONTAINED

(Priority or Mathod of Mailing)

Miss

Jolmes..

390856-2

NCLASSIFIED

ERE SHONN

A DIRECIOR, FBI (105-89923)

U CLASS.

TO:

RELSON-ECIM IT

+2.4

2 Detwe

DAND OF REVIS

FROM:

ONE NEAR (62-35737 942

DECLASSIFED BY SPEMAGI

98.10-12-G

RE:

LORRATOES ATASI AREA MA

EXCEPT

OTHE

FAR

3/3/56

OR

sifisd

alassh

Ion July 1, 1962, the following information was

furnished by MM 539-5,

who

is active in Cuban revolution-

ary activities and who has furnished reliable information

3

n the past: (d1

*KU)

During the

Iatter part of February, 1962,

nembers of the 30th of November Movement, an

anti-CASTRO

organization, met in Miami with THEODORE RACOOSIN, Who

awas understood to be President of the Internacional Broad-

casting Company, New York Cicy, and MI. WILLIAM HILLMAN,

who was understood to be head of Radio Free Europe. The

30ch of November people believed that these men, because

of their positions, might be,

able to assist their organiza-

tion in obtaining United States Government backing in theo

way of funds,

arms, and training camps.

The informant,. 34

who was associated with menhers of the 30ch of November

Movement at that time, learned that these men did not

promise any help to the Cubans they met with, but coun

selled them to write to the Secretary of State, should

they desire any help, or have any complaints.

After

Bureau (AM - RM)

ÉD BY 6O80 LEO

@ 4)

tek

-

New York (AM - RM)

WRO (AM - RM)

Hadore

EXEMPT FROM OD

Miami

RJD/ems

Realitie

DATE OF

DE

39IRI

BONG FOLDE

isas

NOT RECORDED

MT-o5 1932

(7)

08s

It part

Approved:

4uL Sent come

Special Agent in Charge

M

6

SUE 27 1062

ORIGINAL FILED IN

NW 54464 DooId: 32308456

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NA: 52-357316 1)

approximately three days in this area, RACOOSIN and HILLMAN

departed. Nothing further was heard of or from these men

For several months

and their visit appeared to have no

signIficance 14)

Subsequently, on June 22, 1962, RACOOSIN

telephoned the informant from New York City and said

he intended to come to Miami. He said he wanted to

talk with the informant and "the Miami representative of

President KENNEDY." He did not further identify "the

Miami representative of President KENNeDY. "(

(u)

On the same day, June 22, 1962, WILLIAM

BAGES,

editor of the "Miami Daily News," telephoned the informant's

residence and asked if RACOOSIN

was there.

The informant

was unaware as to why BACGS thought RACOOSIN might be at

his residence, denied he was there, but said he would try

to contact RACOOSIN. The informant thereafter telephoned

RACOOSIN in New York and asked if it was satisfactory to

give BAGCS his phone number in New York.

RACOOSIN said

this was satisfactory.

The informant thereafter called

BAGGS back and gave him the number.

According to the

informant, it was apparent that BAGGS and RACOOSIN, up

until this time, had never met.

RACOOSIN arrived in Miami on June 29, 1962

and contacted the informant on June 30th;

stating that

White House representatives, not further

identified,

had contacted him and asked him to go to Miami and contact

President KENNEDY's representative, WILLIAM BAGGS, editor

lof the "Miami Daily News."

RACOOSIN

said that the White House doubted that

CIA was giving the true picture concerning Cuban matters,

and that CIA head MC CONE was responsible for this.

- 2.

54464 DooId: 32308456 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 52-3573

SECRE

RACOOSIN said White House investigation

Of CIA operations

is being carried on

in Miami by WILLIAM BAGGS. RACOOSIN

requested informant

to contact some anti-CASTRO people

in this area, particularly any who had previously participatad

in CIA operations, and male them available to BAGGS fOr

interview.

On July 1, 1962, at 10:00 a.m., the following

individuals met in BAGGS' office:

THEODORE RACOOSIN

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, a soldier of fortune, and

a mercenary.

AGIMIRO FONSECA, a Cuban nationallyho formerly

participated in CIA operations Jiho is noy

operating independently.

EDDIE BATEZ (phonetic), and

RAMON TONT, Cubans who formerly participated in

operations, friends of TONY CUESTA

LAR

BORDE, a ship captain(previously engage

VIA Operations; later discontinued by CIA

for being unreliable. Jile is presently plan

ning an independent unauthorized military

action against Cuba.

TONY

(4)

CUISTA, Who Formerly paccicipated in CIA

operations and is presently of operational

interest to CIA. 7

TONY

FARINAS, naturalized

. citizen, works in

the office of the Cuban Revolutionary Council,

who is closely associated with FONSECA.

MARIO TONTELIA, Cuban national, formerly of

opezational Interest to CIA (u)

Informant advised that, with the exception of

RACOOS IN and HELMING, all of the above-mentioned individuals

are known in the Cuban community in Miami to have participated

in CIA operations.

BACGS, along with RALPH MC GILL, editorial writer

for the Miami Daily News"'

conducted a group intervier of

the above

persons in BACCS' office.

IM 639-S was also

present.

- 3-

SEXRET

NW 54464 DooId: 32308456

Page 4

---

