# docid-32287684

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

• Date:

4/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10197-10460

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 159-757-46

eleased under the

John F.

ennedy Assassination Record:

Collection

ACt

1992

144

2107 NOtel.

Case#: Nu

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, SJ

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/23/1962

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

LOCAL 901, TEAMSTERS UNION, MISSING RECORDS,

ALLEDGED WERE BURNED

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4; 10(a)2

Redact

05/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

HH 1

45750

DocId: 32287684

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-02

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

1 2-25910

r..

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (159-757)

DATE: 4/23/62

SAC, SAN JUAN (159-17) (P)

SUBJECT:

UNSUBS:

LOCAL 90de

TEAMSTERS UNION,

SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO

IMRDA, 1959

Re San Juan radiograms to Bureau, 2/19, 20;

3/7, 23; 4/10/62

Buairtel to San Juan, 4/19/62.

The confidential source mentioned in the attached

letterhead memorandum it It. RAFAEL ALVAREZ (NA), Police

previously identified.

The confidential source mentioned in the attached

letterhead memorandum concerning the records of the U.S.

Post Office, San Juan, and Investigation to locate the

records allegedly mailed by Teamsters Local 901, is Mr. JA.

BERRIOS, Investigative Aide, U.S. Postal Inspector's Office,

San Juan, Puerto Rico.

An investigative report is being submitted

Immediately by the San Juan Office, and in accordance with

Bureau instructions, reports will be submitted thereafter

every 30 days.

REVIOWED BY FEWJFK TASK FORCE

0.1'1 te ST

461.193 dal het

-DASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL/

REG 1-7-157-751-46

5. APR 25 1962

2 - Викеац. (ди)

-San

• Juan

JEC:gjk

DOES O PIRIES

(3)

ENCLOSURE

55126

330€

HN 45750

DocId:32287684 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Re: UNSUBS; Local 901, Teamsters Union, San Juan, P.R.

their own office located at 800 Figueroa Street, Santurce,

Puerto Rico,

to prevent the reamsters records from being inspected

by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Simultaneously, information was received Irom Mr.

HEORGE FRANK, Area Director, Bureau of Labor Management

Reports, U.S. Department of Labor, Santurce, Fuerto RiCO,

that a thorough search of the files and records of that

agency had disclosed that Teamsters Local 901, Santurce, Puerto

Rico, had failed to file with that agency the

annual

financial report, form LM-2, for the

fiscal and calendar year

ending December 31, 1960, as required by Title II of the

Labor Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1958.

1959 vom

4/-5/6

The above

facts were discussed with United States

Attorney, FRANCISCO A. GIL, JI., San Juan, on February 16,

1962, at which time Mr. GIL advised he would immediately move

to have the Teamsters records subpoenaed, at which time Mr.

GIL stated that he desired the San Juan office of this agency

to investigate the possible violation of Local 901 in failing

to file their financial report for the year 1960 at the same

time that investigation was being conducted concerning possible

embezzlement of Union funds. Mr. GIL advised that he expected

to be able to have a special Federal. Grand Jury convened by

February 19, 1962 in order to have the necessary subpoena

issued.

A special Federal Grand Jury was convened at San Juan

at 9:00 A.M., February 19, 1962, and a subpoena duces tecum

was issued for the

JER Law 10(a)2

This subpoena, which was

served on

at 12:00 Noon, February 19, 1962, called for the production

of the

→ before the Federal

Grand Jury, San Juan, at 2:00 P.M.,

that date.

FRANK

CHAVEZ, accompanied by his attorney, JOSE ORTIZ LUGO, appeared

at the

office of the United States

Attorney, San Juan, the

same date, and stated they wished to comply

with the subpoena,

but were unable to do so due to the short period of time

involved and requested permission to appear with the

which

reqyget was granted by the Federal Grand Jury.

REVIEWED BY CONJFK TASK FORCE

- 2-

23-97 lus

LE RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

NW 45750 DooId: 32287684 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Re:

UNSUBS; Local 901, Teamsters Union, San Juan, P.R.

On the morning of February 20, 1962 FRANK CHAVEZ

requested the United States Attorney, San Juan. for an

extension of time for the production

claiming that part of thel

were in the continental

United States and others were being used on a daily basis

by the Union Local. This request was denied and a

appeared before. the

Federal Grand Jury, San Juan,

2(a) 2

Federal Grand Jury

the Federal Grand Jury.

On March 1, 1962 Mr. FRANCISCO A. GIL, Jr., United

Washington,

D.C., confirming the telephonic conversation between the

United States Attorney and BARTOSIC on February 27, 1962

concerning a second subpoena served on the

letter stated in part that FRANK CHAVEZ had advised JOHN

ENGLISH by letter dated February 20, 1902 that thel

had been mailed to the International Teamsters

Inion in four packages, but had not arrived as of February

27, 1962. BARTOSIC indicated further that as soon as the

records arrived in Washington, arrangements would be made for

full compliance with the suppoena duces tecum, Mr. GIL advised

that it appeared strange that

before the Federal Grand Jury, San Juan, l

but not confirmed shipment in

a letter until February 20, 1962.

Mr. GIL advised that he would immediately move for criminal

- 3 -

NW 45750 DooId: 32287684 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Re: UNSUBS; Local 901, Teamsters Union, San Juan, P.R.

contempt action if it could be proved that the alleged shio-

ment of

was not made until after

was served with the subpoena on

JEK LaW 10(a)2

On March 1, 1962 Information was received on a

confidential basis that there was no record of any registered

mail having been sent by Teamsters Local 901 to the Inter-

national Brotherhood of Teamsters Office, Washington, D. C.,

during the period February 12 through 27, 1962, through the

Fernandez Juncos, Santurce, and San Juan

stations.of the.U.s.

Post Office in Puerto Rico, which stations would have been

the most logical stations utilized by Teamsters Local 901.

It was noted that registered mail was

the only type of mail which might have been utilized by

Local 901 wherein a permanent record of such mail would have

been maintained by the U.S. Post Office Department.

On April 3, 1962 additional information was received

to the effect that Local 901 of the Teamsters Union had

recently filed a claimwth the U.S. fost office,

San Juan,

Puerto Rico,

for three or four packages which allegedly

had been mailed by the Teamsters Union to Washington, D.C.,

in February, 1962, allegedly containing books and records

of Local 901. This claim by Local

901 indicated that these

packages were sent by regular mail.

The above information was furnished to the United

States Atorney, San Juan, on the same date.

The above confidential source, mentioned previously,

advised on April 10, 1962, that the reason the books ano

records of the Teamsters Local 901 never arrived by mail

specifically at the Headquarters

on the Catermatton I Brotherhood a eat tee i washanter,

organizer.

This information was learned in conversation with

LUIS E. PAGAN and when PAGAN was Jokingly told that he had

been photographed in the act of burning the Union's records,

PAGAN stated that this was impossible, as pictures cannot

be taken at night.

The confidential

source at that time

was unable to supply additional details as to the place or

REVIEWED BY

MYJFK TASK FORCE

- 4 -

ON

6//9n.l

• CY HELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

NW 45750 DooId: 32287684

Page 5

---

## Page 6

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-02

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

:DIRECTOR, FBI (159-757)

DATE:

4/23/62

SAC, SAN JUAN (159-17) (P)

SUBJECT:

EiNSUBS;

LOCAL

TEAMSTERS UNION,

SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO

IMRDA, 1959

Re San Juan radiograms to Bureau, 2/19, 20;

3/7, 23; 4/10/02.

Buairtel to San Juan, 4/19/62.

The confidential source mentioned in the attached

letterhead memorandum it It. RAFAEL ALVAREZ (NA), Police

previously identified.

The confidential source mentioned in the attached

letterhead memorandum concerning the records of the U.s.

Post Office, San Juan, and investigation to locate the

records allegedly mailed by Teamsters Local 901, is Mr. I: A.

BERRIOS, Investigative Aide, U.S. Postal Inspector's Office,

San Juan, Puerto Rico.

An investigative report is being submitted

immediately by the San Juan Office, and in accordance with

Bureau instructions, reports will be submitted thereafter

every 30 days.

REVISWER BY FENUEK TASK FORCE

661.192 das /net

0-11t ST

excene in dirt o 285on

•LADE IN FULL

NELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL /

EC:14 159-757-46

5 APR 25 1962

2 - Bureau: (A)

¡ - San Juan

JFC:gjk

(3)

ENCLOSURE

I retarie

5/2/62

NW 45750

55429

DocId: 32287684

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Res

UNSUBS; Local 901, Teamsters Union, San Juán, P.R.

their own office located at 800 Figuerca Street, Santurce,

Puerto Rico, to prevent the Teamsters records from being inspected

by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Simultaneously, Information was received from Mr.

thorough search of the files end records of that

agency had disclosed that Teamsters Logel 90l, Santurce, Puerto

Rico, had failed to file with that agency the annual

financial report, form wed, for the fiscas and calendar year

enoing vecenter su, 1900 as required by title II of the

Labor Management Reporting and Disclosure Aet of 1958.

The above facts were discussed with United States

Accorney,

FRANCISCO A CIL, Jr•, San Juan,

on February 16,

1962, at which time Me. CIL advised he would immediately move

to have the Teamsters recorde subpoenaed, at which time Nic.

GIL stäted that he desired the San Juan Office of this agency

to investigate the possible violation of Local 901 in falling

to file their financial report for the year 1960 at the same

time that investigation was being conducted conceming possible

embezzlement of Union funds.

Mr. GIE advized that he expected

to be able to have a special Federal Crand Jury convened by

February 19, 1962 in order to have the necessary subpoena

A special Federal Grand Jury was convened at San Juan

at 9:00. A.M. g

"February 19, 1962, and e subneena duces tecum

wae lacued for the

This subpoena, which was

served on

at 12:00 Noon, febmarv 19, 1962. called for the production

berore the Federal

Jury, San Juen, at 2100 2.M., that date.

CHAVEZ, accompanied by his attorney, JOSE ORTIZ LUGO, appeared

office of the United States Attorney: San Juan, the

same date, and stated they wished to comply with the subpoena,

but were unable to do so due to the short period of time

Anvolved and neguested permission to sobear with the

which

request was granted

by the Federal Crand Jury.

REVIEWED BY SWUFK TASK FORCE

-2-

ON

7-3-97 daL

RELEASE IN FULL

• RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

JEK Law 10(a)2 >

NW 45750 DooId: 32287684

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Ras.

UNsuEs; Local 901, Teamstera Union, San Juan, F.R.

On the morning of February 20, 1962 FRANK CHAVEZ

requested

the United States

Attorney, San duen, for an

extension of time for the

claiming that part of the

production of the

were in the continental

Thi ted States

and others were being used on a datly basie

the taion local..

This reducat was denied and at

Sobeared betore

the

Helena

mian

JEK Law 10(a) 2

Dedenal

Grand Jury

the Federal Grand Jury.

On Marob 1, 1962 Mr,

FRANCISCO A, OIL, Jr., United

States

Adorney,

San Juan, recolved a letten, from FLORIAN

Washington,

D. Co, confiming, the

telenhonie conversation between che

States Attornoy and BARTOSIC on. February 27: 1962

concomine a second sukoena served on the

For the

letter Stated in part that PRANs CAVE had advised JOHN

mers or letton dated February 20, 1962 thet the

had been masted. to the International, Leansters

Union 12

four packages

but had not arrived as of February

27: 1962,

BARTOSIC indicated further that as soon au

recorde arrived in Washingion, arrangements would bo made

for

• compilenco with the subppena ducas becunt. Mr. GIl advised

thet it appeared strance that

before

tho Federal Grand Jury;

San Juan;

but not confirmed

shipment in

a letter until February 20, 1962.

Tira GiE, advised that he would immediately move for crimtnal

HH

45750

DooId: 32287684 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Re: UNSUS; Local 901, Joematers Unton, Son Juan, P.R,

contenpr action 11 it could be proved that the alleged shin

was not ndo well afters

mas sorved with the suspoena

Law. 10(a)2

On March 1, 1962 information as received on

confidential baste that there was no racord of any rogistered

nail heying boon sent by teamsters Local 901 to the Inter-

national Brotherhood of Seansters OffLoes

Washington, D. Cas

during the period February 12 through 27, 1952, through

Vermandes juncos, Santunce;

and San Juan otations of the U.S,

Post Office in Puerto Mico, which stations would have been

the nost logical etationa uttlised by toametors Local 901

in depositing nil,

It was noted that roglatored matl was

the only type of matt which might have been utilized by

Local 901 wheretn a permnent tecord of euch mail would have

been maintained by the U.S. Post Office Doportment.

On April 3, 2962 additional intormation was received

to the affect theo

, Locat 901 of

Teams beze Union had

recently filed a cosmtuth the U.se Foot Outice,

San Juan,

querco fuco, for three or rout pactages which alteredsy

had been matled by the Teamsters Union to Washington, D.C.s

in Jebruary, 1962, allegedly containing books and recordo

09. tocol 901

his claim by Local 901 indicated that these

backages

were sont by regular mail;

the above information was fumiched to the United

States Romey, San Json, on the same date.

The above confidential cource, mentioned previously;

advised on April 10, 1962 that the zeason the books and

recorus of the leanstero Loca 901 never araved by mall

tm the Continental U.S.s Specifically at the Headquarters

International: Brotherhood of leansters, Washington,

was due to the fact they were burned by LuIs E. PAGAN,

Bookkeeper, Local 901, and LEOPOLDO RAMOS DUCOS, Local 901

This Laformation was leaned in conversation with

JULS E, PAGAN and when: PAGAN was Jokingly told that he had

in the act of burning the Unton's records,

PAGAN stated that thie trap impossible, as pietures cannot

bo talton at night.

The confidential dource at that time

vas unable, to supply additional detailo as to the place or

REVIEWED BY ERNIER TASK FORGE

4/1197 deb/met

DO RELEASE IN FULL

:0 RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

HItT

45750

DoCId: 32287684

Page 9

---

