# docid-32303644

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10156

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-3728-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/10/1962

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

EPE, REL, RES, ASSOC, VALLE, ANTONIO CUESTA,

FERNANDEZ, ALBERTO, TRA, ACA, MRR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM, S/S

19.1

DooId: 32303644

Page 1

---

## Page 2

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATES (197-12-2017

FBI

Transmit the following in -

SECKEL

Date:

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

5/10/62

Via

TO:

FROM:

RE :

HEREIN FANCIA SSERTEN BICEPS

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

RHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

DECLASS IGATION AND/OC

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, MIAMI (105-1795) (C)

ANTONIO CUESTA VALLE

IS - CUBA;

RA - CUBA

REY X3

RELEASE CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS

DOCUMENT. Jm

6-25-11

SLO/K SR

7-24-97

Casined by Sete 54/mke (JFK):

Declassily on: DADA (

Rerep of SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR., dated 6/29/60

CLASSISER CY 5668

Icestlan

756148

at Miami.

Enclosed herewith are 9 copies of a letterhead

memorandum, dated and captioned as above. A copy of this

communication (letterhead memo) was made available locally

to CIA.

Upon receipt of original info re the activities

of captioned subject on 4/13/62, Mr. RAY DUBOIS, CIA

local representative, was contacted and apprised of the

contemplated travel of CUESTA and his companions to Cuba.

At this time DUBOIS stated that CIA was aware of the activities

of CUESTA and advised that CUESTA would probably not be

traveling to Cuba at that time. (Ru)

Mx. DUBOIS was recontacted on 5/8/62 re the more

specific data pertaining to CUESTA and ROBERTO HERRERA.

At

this time DUBOIS stated CIA has an operational interest in

CUESTA and HERRERA and

that CIA

was aware of their travel

arrangements to Cuba.(

- Bureau

- Miami

ELP: jgm

(6)

REG 13 9-

-3728

1G MAY 2I 1962

22

_copies made

Approved:

AJC/Ahg

Sentf or review at BIM by Per

Spec

" E MiCR

CRET

DocId: 32303644

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John"t. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

MM 105-1795

This letterhead memorandum is classified "Secret"

since it includes data furnished by CIA and pertains to

the operational activities of CIA; also based on this,

no additional local dissemination vas made (X)l

24 tEl teals focation of Information 18

2134 515A]

19 T-zão craftedeton of information do 105-

1795-15.

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed in this communication and "T"

symbols

were utilized only in those instances where identities must

be concealed.

DocId: 32303641 Page 3

---

