# docid-32303715

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10227

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-222X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/19/1963

' PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

LCN, DOTO, GIUSEPPE ANTONIO, ASSOC, THP, BKG, RES,

TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM, MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32303715

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Tote)

DA BE 36 (Kb+112-20160)

FBI

Date:

4/19/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM

:SAC, NEW YORK (92-2300)

SUBJECT : LA CAUSA NOSTRA

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are six copies of

a letterhead memorandum, which is self-explanatory, for

transmittal to the

Legat, Rome, Italy.

The source of information referred to in the enclosed

letterhead memorandum is NY 3803-C, who furnished this informa-

tion on 4/18/63.

The informant advised that he received this informa-

tion from ANGELO CHIPPI, Newark top hoodlum, who also advised

that SAM GIANCANA, Chicago top hoodlum, would see GIUSEPPE

ANTONIO DOTO on the New Jersey shore.

Informant stated that

CHIPPI also indicated that other persons, identities not

furnished, would see DOTO.

Chicago requested to be alert for any travel plans

on GIANCANNA's part during June or July, and Newark requested to

be alert for any information relative to DOTO's proposed visit.

Chicago, Newark and New York will conduct no

inquiries relative to this proposed visit at the present time.

- Bureau (Enels.

6)ENCLOSURI

- Chicago. (Encl.

- Newark (Encl.

New York

1)

(137-8939)

- New York (92-2300)-

Att.

(Att.

1)

RES:

92-6054222x

6628

PJC :RM

•(10)

VON INLET

VEGE

13 APR

80 1963

Lett Lepat Borne

42=-

Approved:

Sent

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32303715 Page 2

---

