# docid-32307097

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10291-10237

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

97-4546-1ST NR 9, 2ND NR 9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

SAC, SJ

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/13/1961

PAGES :

6

SUBJECTS :

MR, EMP, PR, AFFIL, MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL

PUEBLO, CRC, ASSOC, MAB, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

HH 54046

DocId: 32307097

Page 1

21

Date:

6/5/2015

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Assassination Recorde

collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 54046 Date:

b8-23-2017

---

## Page 2

CONFIOEONTIAL

MM 105-3107

chosen as a representative on the Council because of

his color, but rather because he is the grandson of the

famous Cuban national hero, General ANTONIO MACEO

GRAJALAS•

PSI AGUSTL CASTELLANOS has been the personal

physician of RAY, and the latter's children, since RAY was

an infant. After one of his latest crips to Fuerto Rico,

one oh 1o

DE. CASTELLANOS (protect identity) stated he had had to

reluctantly conclude that RAY 1s anti-American, and even

RAY's good personal friend, Governor MUNOZ MARIN Of PuertO

Rico, had had to drop him as a political figure, although

GoVernor MUNOZ MARIN did gIVe RAY a jOb 11 Puerto Rico. (Al U)

There are nunerous other sources in the Miami

office, Including reports from Los Angeles and New York,

Indicating that the MRP 1s "Fidelo Commista" In character,

and that MANUEL, RAY 10 regarded at least a dangerous liberal.

San Juan and the Bureau are, of course, aware

that MANUEL RAY was dropped as leader of the MR? in the

Summer of 1961 and replaced by IGNACIO MENDOZA. The

cause, publicly given in the newspapers, was that RAY

took independent actions without consulting leading members

of the underground of the MRP in Cuba.

really due to the fact that RAY's anti-Americanism and

leftist tendencies were showing through and causing unfavor-

able reaction in the U. S. to the general aims of anti-CASTRO

Cubans.

IGNACIO MENDOZA recently wrote a letter which

was published in the "Miant News;" criticizing American

CONFIDNTIAL

50: 393)

NW 54046 DooId:32307097 Page 2

---

