# docid-32302427

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10281-10147

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-72805-94, 99

Released under the John

'. Kennedy

assassination Records

collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#: NW

53130 Date:

05-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

TO:

BARRON, JOHN R.

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/24/1960

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

EW, ASSOC, POLIT, FINANCES, ACA, BOMBING, SUGAR

CANE FIELDS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

HH 53130

DocId: 32302427

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 105-1774

SECRET.

Copies Made:

1

INS, Miami (RM)

U, S. Customs, Miami (RM)

U.

S. Border Patrol, Miami (RM)

1 = OSL, MacDadd AFB, Tampa, Fla. (RM)

4 - Atlanta (62-1669) (RM)

(1 • U. S. Customs, Atlanta)

(1 - INS, Atlanta)

JAMES PERRY DOWRICK, according to Miami' Office

Indices, was carried by the Miami Office as a PSI under develop-

ment, Miami file 134-383. Indices failed to reflect any other

references for DOWRICK.

MATTHEW DUKE, according to Miami Office indices,

a subject of a Bureau investigation captioned "MATTHEW EDWARD"

DUKE, aka; POLICE COOPERATION - FOREIGN MISCELLANEOUS", Bufile

64-43934, Miami file 64-178.

Bureau is advised that the U. S.

Border Patrol and U. S. Customs, both Miami, Florida, have been

furnished all Information in possession of the Miami Office

relating to DUkE and his activities.

MICHAEL DE CANDIO, JR., In contact, advised that

there is no G-2, as such, in the Miami area, and that Counter

Intelligence Corps, Miami, is performing some of the duties ;

that would normally be perfomed by G-2, pending the establish

ment of a G-2 in Miani.

The CIA source referred to in the details of this

report under MM I-3, is one of the subjects in instant case,

Identified by CIA, Miami, as PAUL JOSEPH HUGHES. The CIA

representative in Miami stated that he did not

press. HUGHES

on

his contact with him on February 4, 1960, for further details,

inasmuch as CIA has no jurisdiction over instant matter,

explaining that CIA is only interested in affairs affecting the

external security of the United States.

(и)

COVER PAGE.

B.

SEGRET

NW 53130 DooId:32302427 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-1774

SEGRET

REVIEWED BY

ASK TASK FORGE

During the interview with subject MATTHEW DUKE,

February 19, 1960, DUKE advised that he had furnished informa-

tion to CIA In both Washington, DC and New York City. He

Identified the Washington, DC CIA Agent as named 0' CONNELI.,

and the New York CIA Agent

as MI. FRANK. DUKE claimed to

have furnished information to the CIA Agents in October, 1959. (4)

On February 17, 1960, CIA advised it has not had

and does not currently have any operational interest whatso

ever in the subject of MATTHEW DUKE. CIA claimed that

neither of these individuals has been receiving any guidance,

support or compensaton from CIA.

CIA stated that any state-

ments made by HUGHES or his associates that they are per

forming duties on behalf of CIA, are absolutely false.

CIA stated that HUGHES has volunteered information to CIA,

and that this data has been disseminated to Interested

agencies and the Bureau. CIA considers HUGHES to be

unreliable.

Colonel STEWART MC KENNEY, Chief, Operations

Branch, Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence,

REMAIN INCOSS

advised HUGHES is not an Informant of the Army. He was PArmy

contacted in December, 1959, by Army after he had advised l JD

• 1959 DA:

the Army furnished us on February 9, 1960.

(This is for your information only, and should

not be included in reports submitted for dissemination

LAMES

"PERRY""

DOWRICK,

referred

to in instant report,

is known to the Miami Office

JAMES PIRIE DOWRICK, aka

2

DOWRICK telephonically contacted the Miami Office!!'

9-15-97

RELSASE IN FULL

Perry Dowrick, Jim Dowrick.

112-50-3207 6405.

on"the night of November 10, 1959, and offered to cooperate

RELEAS!

TOTAL

COVER

• PAGE.

C.

SECRET

Sili

HH

53130

DocId: 32302427

Page 3

---

## Page 4

==

MM 105-1774

IDENTITY

MM I-1 1s former PSI

FRANK PEREZ PEREZ

- INFORMANTS-!

SAN SECRET

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION

1051774-647

MM T-? Is G-2,

United States Army

MM T-3 1s CIA "Information

Report" dated 2/9/60,

No. 00A -3,151,068

MM T-4 18 LUSTIN F.

GLEICHAUF, CIA

Representative, Miant,

Florida

Bureau teletype 2/11/60,

Miant file 105-1774-50

105-1774-80

105-1774-53

MM T-5 L& Major CARROLI O.

MEYER, G-2, Third Army,

Atlanta, Georgia

105-1774-66

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed in this report, and "m symbols have

been utilized only in those instances where Identity must

be concealed.

COVER

SECRET

NW 53130 DooId: 32302427 Page 4

---

