# docid-32313847

## Page 1

I Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 USC USC Hote) Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10333-10054

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 92-4167-649

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LA

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 03/20/1962

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

HANK GREENSPUN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

TT

v9.1

DocId: 32313847

7

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE:

7-14-2017

FEDERAL SUREAU OF INVERTICATION

U.S. DErARIMENi Or ASSHC:

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR 2 1 1962

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr.--

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLnach

Mr. Evans.

Mr.

Maione.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room-

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gatidy

URGENT 3-20-52 11-27 PM NRB

TO DIRECTOR 92-4167

FROM SAC LOS ANGELES 3860 2 P

JOSEPH STACHER, AKA. AR. 00 LOS ANGELES:

STACHER CONTINUES RESIDENCE AT BEVERLY HILTON. HE IS

CONTINUING TO SPEND CONSIDERABLE TIME AROUND THE BEVERLY

WILSHIRE HOTEL AND HAS BEEN SEEN OFTEN DURING LAST COUPLE

OF DAYS IN COMPANY WITH THEODORE QUOTE SUGAR UNQUOTEBROWN. CALIE

NATE STEIN WAS SEEN AT THE BEVERLY WILSHIRE TALKING TO

HARRY GOLDENBERG ON MARCH NINETEEN LAST. JOR DI MAGGIO WHO CABIE

HAS BEEN AT BEVERLY WILSHIRE FOR PAST FEW DAYS WAS ASSOCIATING

CLOSELY WITH SAM WOLFSON, BROTHER OF LOUIS WOLFSON, WHO

DEPARTED MARCH NINETEEN LAST. DI MAGGIO WAS SEEN WITH SUGAR

BROWN NUMEROUS TIMES TODAY

EX-116

FORMER C LA FOUR TIRE EE SEVENT

REC- 47

DASH C ADVISED STACHER HAD LONG CONVERSATION LAST WEEK WITHD

CAN HANK GREENSPUN IN A BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL, BUT HARANS INSORMATION

ABOUT NATURE OF THE CONVERSATION. SOURCE ALSO ADVISED THAT

KRATTER CORPORATION OF NEW YORK WAS DOING SOME NEGOTIATION

END

• BAR 301962

DocId: 32313847 Page 2

---

