# docid-32286188

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10194-10464

HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-9-1276

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/17/1963

9

THP, MISUR, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

N9.1

DocId: 32286188

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

3,

CG 92-350-Sub U

From the following conversation, it became known that

GOLDSTEIN is presently representing a lorner Chicago porice-

man naned MAOLA (ph), who was indicted in 1960 during the

national elections for vote fraud. When it became known

that MAOLA was a policeman, he was subsequently suspended

his case is presently due

from the force.

GOLDSTEIN discusses the situation with MARCY

and has requested MARCY to pull as many strings as he can

so that this individual can beinstated. GoLDstel takes the

stand that MAOLA was merely the victim

of circumstances, but

the

is being made to bear the entire brunt of this incident.

EAt requestEMARCY to contact the Mayor, leading

police officials, and LOU WEXLER, the Assistant Corporation

Counsel, under whose direction the case will be tried before

the CSC.

During the conversation, ANTHONY GIROLAMI, identical

to CG 6498-PC, joined the group and was also requested to do

his part on behalf of MAOLA. GOLDSTEIN continued that MAOLA

been out of work for 15 months and has been having

difficulty gaining employment when the reasons for his unemploy-

ment becone known.

It is pointed out that the violations

occurred in the 28th Ward, of which GIROLAMI was alderman at

the time

of the occurrence. GOLDSTEIN claims that MAOLA told

him that GIROLAMI had instructed him to do "it" which

GIROLAMI disclains heatedly.

MARCY's first statement concerning his actions in

the matter will be to have the case postponed for a minimum oF

two nonths so that they will have more time to work on the

matter.

During the afternoon of 5/14/63, Lieutenant LOUIS

MUELLER and Officer JOHN AURIEMMA, License Officers of the

Chicago Police Department, were in

Lt. MUELLER explained that he is investigating an application

for a liquor license made by Austin Liquors. It is noted that

Austin Liquors is owned by the FILICHD fanily and that there

are numerous Austin Liquor Stores located throughout the Chicago

area.

One of the nembers of the FILICHIO family is BEN

FILICHIO, who testified as a defense witness for TONY ACCARDO

during ACCARDO's trial in the fall of 1960.

It. MUELLER explained to MARCY that there is no way

that he can grant, legally, the application for a license, due

-2-

DocId: 32286188 Page 2

---

