# docid-32306524

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10290-10164

RECORD_SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 58-8396-1, 2, 3

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: DOJ

FROM:

PETERSEN, HENRY E.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 01/28/1974

PAGES: 14

SUBJECT:

EIA, ACK ADVICE, INTV, WATERGATE, CUBAN GOVERNMENT, MIL, BKG,

CRIMINAL ACT, RES, DESCR, ASSOC AND REL, ADMIN INSTR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW /

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

01/07/1997

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6(3)

INC CIT LTR, 3 MEMO, A/T, INTV

DocId: 32306524 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 U5 2107 Vote).

DATE: ° 11-14-2017

REC-19

EX 1284

5%

February 25, 1974

1 - Mr. Dolan

MAILED 6

Fatal

25

1974

FBi

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. _

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv..

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv. -

Training

Legal Coun

• laghon mAR 2619/0

ALLEGED ATTEMPTED BRIBE OF

EDWARD IVAN ARTHUR

BRIBERY

Reference is made to a letter dated January 28,

1974, from Henry E. Petersen, Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, United Stätes Department of Justice

(HEP: HSD: am), to the Directör, FBI, captioned "Allegations

by Edward Ivan Arthur."

The above letter requested that Arthur be inter-

viewed and results furnished to the Department.

Enclosed

for the Department are two copies of the interview of

Edward Ivan Arthur conducted on Febrary 4, 1974, at

Columbus, Ohio.

For the information of the Department of Justice,

Edward Ivan Arthur has an extensive police record with the

Columbus, Ohio, Police Department under Columbus Police

Department number 45036-

Arthur has FBI number 722-936 B-

A review of Columbus Police Department file number 45036

reflects Arthur was arrested on October 22, 1957, by Columbus

Police Department on a charge of attempted

blackmail.

charge was filed by John George Warhol, Jr., date of birth

September 2, 1933, place of birth Park Ridge, New Jersey.

A review of the case reflects Warhol committed acts of

sodomy on Arthur and was thereafter blackmailed by Arthur.

Comnents in the case file reflect Arthur's modus operandi

was to "Ioll" queers or pick up queers and after engaging

in sexual act with them would attempt to obtain money by

threat of blackmail.

During interview of Arthur, he advised that he has

three books regarding different phases of his life which are

being considered for publication by a number of publishers.

JJD: aat OU

(4)

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

WhAt

TELETYPE UNIT L

4161 8

UNRECORDED COPY E

FEB 2Y 1974

DocId: 32306524

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records €

Ollect Ton

DATE: 71-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

12 141 USe 2107 Hote).

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

N

Approved:

DocId: 32306524

FBI.

Date:

2/21/74

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI

B/SAC, CINCINNATI (58-242) (P) FD 217

ALLEGED ATTEMPTED BRIBE OF

EDWARD IVAN ARTHUR

BRIBERY

(00: CI)

ReBuairtel to CI, 1/30/74.

Enclosed for the Bureau are 8 copies of FD-302

reflecting interview with EDWARD IVAN ARTHUR at Columbus,

Ohio, on 2/4/74.

For information of the Bureau EDWARD IVAN

has extensive police record with Columbus,

Department under Columbus Police Department #45036.

ARTHUR has FBI #722-936 B. Review of Columbus Police

Department file #45036 reflecte subject arrested 10/22/57

by Columbus Police Department son attempted blackmail.

Charge filed by JOHN GEORGE WARHOL, JR., DOB 9/2/33, ViCTiM

POB Park Ridge, New Jersey. Review of case reflects

WARHOL committed acts of sodomy on subject and was thereafter

blackmailed by subject.

Comments in case file reflect

subject's modus operandi was to "roll" queers or pick

up queers and after engaging

in sexual act with them

would attentiop obtainimoro

reat a backmail. f

interyley of subject,

58-8396

advised

that he has three books regarding different phases of his

life which are being considered for publication by a

number of publishers.

ARTHUR advised that he has been in

Hollywood, California, contacting movie producers regarding

a movie of his life.

15 52 117

Bureau

(Enc.

sehes-z

2 - Cincinnati

birce 2,25

2,6

15 FEB 25 1974

TBD: gas

(4)

2/25078

MAR

1974

Special Agent in Charge

Sen

_M Per

2ng

#U.S: Government Printing Office: 1972 - 4-5-574

-702

Page 3

UNRECORDED COPY

FILED LA 105.

34074-10-05

OWEFCORDED CORX FIND HE

+105-214155-4

---

