# docid-32304859

## Page 1

DATE: 11-14-2017

Reneuy AssassMatTon Recorus Cortection Aot of 1992 (11 U5t 2107 Hote).

UK sarin Syrem

Date:

5/19/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10286-10489

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-6054-1982

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SD

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/04/1967

15

LCN, MAFIA, MEMBERS A/O ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT.

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DocId: 32304859 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PASSURE 1215-000

FBI

Date: 5/4/67

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Vic

AIRIEL

AIRVATI - BEGISTEREL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

FROM:

SAC, SAN DIEGO (92-229) (P)

LA

COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

(00: NY)

Re San Diego airtel to the Bureau dated 4/6/67•

SD 1064-C-TE was recontacted by SA'S EDWARD

MARI and JOHV D. ARMSTRONG and furnished the following

information on La Cosa Nostra (ICN) on 4/27/67•

I. DETROIT ICN FAMILY

Informant has maintained contact with

"Capo" PAPA

JOHN PRIZIOLA about twice a week since he

has come to the San Diego area from Detroit to visit

his two daughters, married to local San Diego hoodlums,

JOSEPH ERNESTO MATRANGA and FRANK ISADORE MATRANGA.

Informant confirmed that PRIZIOLA has had a recent

recurrence of his heart trouble and is now staying at

- Bureau (3 - 92-6054) (1 - 137-9187) (AM-REGISTERED)

2- New York (92-2300) (AM-REGISTERED)

2 - Detroit (92-914) (AM-REGISTERED)

- San Francisco (92-593) (AM-REGISTERED)

Dale

• Chicago (92-1173) (AM-REGISTERED)

- Las Vegas

(92-625) (AM-REGISTERED)

- Cleveland

(AM-REGISTERED

Los Angeles (92-1112) (REGISTERED)

-

St. Louls (AM-REGISTERED)

- Kansas City (AM-REGISTERED)

EX-103

- New Orleans

(92-365) (AM-REC

ISTERED)

HIS MAY 8

Tamma 92-2283

9x-6054=1282

Tampa

CO

- San Diego (2 - 92-229) (1 - 137-1088)

DA: 0350X

62 MAY 221967

Approved:

Sent -

V Spectal Agent in Charge

DocId: 32304859

Page 2

UNREC COPY FILED IN

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

SD 92-229

was originally from Cleveland, has been observed meeting

in the Los Angeles area with former Cleveland hoodlums,

JULIUS ANTHONY PETRO, FRANK JOHN VELOCTA, NICHOLAS VALENTI,

NICHOLAS J. TIRABASSI, NICHAEL, ANTHONY PETRO.

Informant at this meeting aamitted having

recently been introdused to the above ex-Cleveland

hoodlums by JIVVY FRATIANNO who has known them for

many years. He confirmed that JULIUS PETRO was recently

paroled from Federal Prison after sorving a long term on

a bank robbery charge and that he was paroled to his

brother, Miss titho, de cupcher aomitica chet SHANK

VELOLTA

is an expert safe burglar.

he further aduleted

that PRATIANNO introduced these hoodlums to the informant

because VELOITA Is trying to get some criminal relony

charge, outstanding against him in the state of Florida,

aropped or "fixed"

Apparently, FRATIANNO has told these

hoodluns that the intormant is an old friend oL SANTO

VELOITA

wants the intormant to try to get TRASFICANIE tO

a state charge in Florida so he will not be forced to

return there.

VELOTTA, according to the informant, has every

intention of raising enough money to take care of this

fix.

Informant indicated that VELOITA would do so by

pulling some safe Jobs.

In ormant stressed, nowever,

that he did not know where VELOITA would pull the sate

jobs, but that it would not be anywhere around the San

Diego area in order to protect the Informant.

If VELOTTA

is successful in raising enough money, he will try to get

the informant to arrange things with TRAFFICANTE.

(the informent confidentially advised that in

his opinion it takes & great deal of money at this time

to arrange a fix in Florida an the crooked politicians

-/-

DocId: 32304859

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SD 92-229

Informant advised that in his day LOCOCO was deeply

involved in bookmaking, but states that he no longer

believes he is actively. engaged in bookmaking.

Claims that LOCOCO now has turned into a "big business-

man and even a Shriner."

Indicated, however, that

LOCOCO still loves to gamble, but thinks it Is more

likely he is nothing more than a better at this time.

Informant was questioned about ANDY LOCOCO's

brother, Dr. THOMAS LOCOCO of National City, Californi

Stated that to his knowledge Dr. Lococo has

always been

"straight" and not engaged in any racket activity or

gambling activity involving his brother.

Advised that to his knowledgo the Lococos are

not CN members •

3. At this meeting, the informant again stressed

his desire to overthrow the present leadership of the

Los Angeles

He stated that he gave word to his

local

• JOE ADAMO, that he was going to "out back

into" the gambling operation of NICK SIMPONTS on the

outskirts of Palm Springs, California. He told JOE ADAMO

to report this to FRANk DEStiON, Boss of the wos Angeles

ICN Family.

On rechecking with JOE ADAMO, he stated that

ADAMO told him that he tried three oines co contact

DESIMONE, finally making the contact on the third time.

He advised that ADAMO gave the word to DESIMONE

and now he is waiting for DESIMONE to reply.

He stated

that he expects DESIMONE to forbid him to cut back into

SIMPONIS and claimed that SIMPONIS is already giving a

share of his earnings to the Family.

He stated that he

knows for a fact SIMPONIS is not giving any of his earnings

at the Desert Sands and when DESIMONE makes such a claim,

-12-

DocId: 32304859 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

SD 92-229

the informant will use it as a vehicle In making a serious

complaint against DESIMONE to the ICN leadership and will

attempt to use it as an example in an effort to force

DESIMONE out of IN leadership in the Los Angeles ICN

Family.

Again the informant was highly critical of

DES IMONE, Underboss NICK LICATA, and his San Diego Capo

JOE ADAMO for lack of aggressive leadership in providing

opportunities for hoodlun income.

IX. NEW ORLEANS FANCIY

From comments made by the informant, it is

apparent he is not at all acquainted with the New Orleans

Family leadership in the persons of CARLOS and JOE

MARCELLO or leader JIMMY CAMPO.

X. NEW YORK FAMILY

Informant advised that he had no further

Information regarding any change In the physical condition

of Boss TOM LUCHESE.

XI. MIAMI and TAMPA

Stated he has not been in contact with SANTO

TRAFFICANTE, JR. since he last saw him in Los Angeles

a few months ago, but that if he does visit TRAFPICANTE

at VELOITA's request, he will stop off enroute and visit

ICN hoodlun leaders he knows in St. Louis and Chicago.

Informant still stressed the fact that he cannot travel

at this time to Florida as he has claimed too vigorously

of being broke to make such an expensive trip at this

time without arousing curiosity and possibly suspicion.

He still indicated, however, that he would be agreeable

to making such a trip if he finds the right cover.

723-

DocId: 32304859 Page 5

---

