# docid-32329851

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/23/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90088-10031

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-75147-12-84

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

08/15/1952

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

BENJAMIN BINION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32329851

Page

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

In JuLy of 1952, FLOYD HILI, aLOnE WiTh LAROY (TINCY, EGGIESTON,

•and C. FRANK

CATES, opened a small gambling game on the Jacksboro Highway

outside the city limits of Fort Worth, Texas.

This game operated for

approximately two weeks, when the partners had a disagreement and also about

the same time some officers raided this place. EGGIESTON, CATHS and FILI

closed the game and have never re-opened it.

Information

has also been

received from DIS-28 that C. FRANK CATES, a known Fort Worth racketeer, and

LEROY (TINCY) EGGIESTON have had a disagreement and at the present time are

not on such friendly terms. DIS-28 also advised that FLOYD HILI, had a

disagreement with C. FRANK CATES and CATES has been staying away from Fort

Worth and looking after some oil interests in Montague County.

This

informant advised that EGGITSTON, CATES and HILI, are known as killers and

that if they have any further trouble, there might be a shooting among

these individuals.

The latest information received from DIS-28 and a reliable poten-

tial informant is to the effect that FLOYD HILL is staying pretty close to

LES UTT and they seem to be operating by themselves.

QUEEN recently left

Fort Worth and is reported to be living at his home at Cleburne, Texas.

In March, 1952, a Special Federal Grand Jury was called at

Fort Worth, Texas by United States Attorney FRANK. B. POTTER. This Special

Grand Jury

was called as a result of instructions sent out to all United

States Attorneys by Attorney General McGRATH. This Special Grand Jury heard

numerous witnesses from Fort Worth and Dallas, as well as persons living in

Tarrant County, Dallas County and the immediate surrounding area. The

Grand Jury in its report advised they had failed to discover any gangs of

criminals operating in the Fort Worth or Dallas area, and had failed to

discover any wholesale violations of state or federal laws in the Dallas and

Fort Worth area.

This special grand jury did return income tax indictments against

the following individuale:

SherIff SULL MONSONIY of fort worth, Tarrant County;

A. I. WARDIA, Assistant District Attorney, Tarrant County;

BENNY BINION, known gambler from Dallas, but presently residing

in Las Vegas, Nevada; and

HARRY URBAN, SR., known gambler of Dallas, Texas.

This special grand jury also returned income tax indictments against

other lesser known individuals from Dallas, Fort Worth, and the surrounding

area. It also returned a number of true bills in regular criminal cases from

the Dallas-Fort Worth area.

This special grand jury was dismissed in April,

1952, after filing its final report with Judge I. W. DAVIDSON at Fort Worth,

Texas.

31

DocId:32329851 Page 2

---

