# docid-32989555

## Page 1

File #:

62-40-116395

Serial Scope:

1216

---

## Page 2

IN REFLY, PLEASE REFER TO

FRENa_65-58190

United States Department of Justice

Federal Burran of Inuestigation

121%

Mashingtan 25, 2. C.

June 29, 1954

PERSONAI AND CONSIDENTIAL

AVI INFORMAXION CONTATIO

INCEIN IS UN LASSIFITO

WARE SHOWK QURENTIC

1-25-01

+moel6

CLASSIFIED BY SP- 2 PEM

DECLASSIFY ON: 25XJ,6

MEHORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

( CONSURATE OF ISRAST NEW TORX CITY dY

ENTERIAL SECURITY - 15

In siveral communications to you during the past

year concerning Israeli intelligence operations in the

United States,

information has been foruarded regarding an

espionage ring operated by the Israeli Government in

New York City.

This ring was headed by Youval fal who

Untz! КаГСЛ 09, 1001

was an adviser

to the israeL Delegati to the United staters.

Also included in this ring vere Yigal Giloud land Efrain

Pillersdors, employees of the Consulate of Israel, New York

City.

The Department of State has informed this Bureau

that on April 14,

Byroade conferred with israeli Ambassador Abba SanJend

Assistant secretary of state Henry i.

expressed to him the disquiet of our Goverament at the

activities of lal,

Gilaad,

and Pillersdorf. Mr. Byroade

noted the fact that lal had recently left the United States

and told the Israeli Ambassador that our Government con-

sidered it desirable that Giload and Pillersdorf also be

withdrawn. (s

It is anticipated that the departure of these

three men from the United states

probably will not

result in the discontinuance of Israeli intelligence

activities in the New York area.

- Since the activities

have centered, about the l

Ithere in the

past it is possible that they will continue to be con-

ducted from that establishment.

JEK

UNRECONDED COPY FILED IN 65 - 416%2

JEK Act 6

(1) (C)

(1) (C)

(1) (0)

RECORDED - 25

T45= 58190-

1+33

parational ericand in = ca

HH 55103 DocId:32989555 Page 2

---

## Page 3

188-10308

HN 55103 «DocId:32989555

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

JFK. Act 6 (I)(C)

thie anoraval

was received on June 21, 1954.

It

is recormended that you authorize this coverage at the present

address

or at any address to which it may be

moved in the future. (S)

Respectfully yours,

pin a strover.

Directyr

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

Approved:_

2103

Date: 7-6-54

SECRET.

1-2 -

1H 55103 DocId: 32989555 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Jati

IN REPLY, PLEASE RETER TO

ragNa 65-53792

SECRET

Suiten States Arpartment of Justice

Federal Burran of Inuestigation

Mashingtas 25, 2. C.

June 29, 1954

ErISONE AND CONPENTIAR

AUT INFORMATION CONTAIX%

HEREIN IS UN TASSIFIRD RX

WHERE SHOWN GIARHIS?.

(5) sendee

NrEZZAL

SECURITY

KENORANDU! FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

IS (5)

In several communications to you during the past

year concerting isiceli intelligence operations

in the

United states, information nos been forwarded regarding an

espionage ring operated by the su use termin

Hew York City.

This ring was headed by Youval Ici uno

until Larch 29, 1954,

when he departed from the United stotes,

20S

an acuiser

to the anoids ston to the United

rations.

4150

included in this ring were f

eland is

Jemployees of ther

New York

City. (s)

1-25-01

#MORIG

CLASSES ON PAIN ETE

The Department of State has informed this Bureau

tyroade conferred 20th r0

ASSISTANt

wecretary of sode denry &.

expressed to him the cisquiet

Hactivities of ea

DECLASSIFY ON:

noted the fact that Tal

пас

and told the fantedon

sidered it desirable thet

our Govertment at ike

song Ir. Broode

recently left the United States

sithat

OUT

Goverrment con-

lalso

be

withdrawn. (5)

It is anticipated that the departure of these

three men. fror

the United stctes

probably. wild not

result in the discontiruance offi

activities in the lew jork area.

have centered aüout the is

past it is possible that they will

ducted from that establishment.

actruities

there in

continue to be

JEK Act 6 (1) (C)

RECORDED - 25

665-58196-

SECRET

UNBEC

ORDED COMY FILED IN

55103

DoOId:32989555

Page 5

---

## Page 6

-E

+2 1.4

Wi 55103. DocId: 32989555

Page 6

188-10308

* '**

*;

ani eene .

;...

1.*9

---

## Page 7

back

"SECRET

JFK Act 6 (1) (C)

The approval

was received on June 21, 1954..It

JEK Act 6 11

Is recommended that vou authorize this coverage at the present

address

or at any cadress to which it may be

moved in the future. (S)

respectfully yours,

Approved: 1103

Date: 7-6-54

SECRET

.. 00

2 .

HH 55103, DocId: 32989555 Page 7

---

## Page 8

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. 100-341652

, SEDAT

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INTESTIGATION

SECHEL

TASHINGTON 25. D. Co

"January 8, 1958

MEUORANDUL FOR PAS ARJOREI GENZRAI

RE: ISIDORE GIBBY NEEDLENAN

INTERNAL SECURUTI ACT OL 1950

Isidore Gibby Needleman is a Bussian-born

naturalized citizen uho has been described by an

informant who has furnished reliable information in

the past, as a key man in soviet espionage operations

in the United States in 1948. He has been a member

of the Communist Party, V.S.do, and is knoun to have

been in contact with soviet officials on a number

of occasions since 1953. Needleman was formerly

employed as an attorrey for the Amtorg Trading

Corporation in New Fort ancis currently engaged in

the practice of law in dew lork.

In order to determine the extert of

Needleman's current activities, it is requested that

authorization be granted for a technical surveillance

on Needleman's residence at 110-30 64th Road,

'forest dulls,

Long Island, New York,

or any future.

address to which he might moves edU

NE INFORMA TON CONFATMEO

Respectfully,

HERSIN IS UNCA SSIFIXO EXCITE

Hoover

Director

Approved com

Date 1/9/58

900/ don

1-03-55

RECORDED-24

166-341652-785

18 JAN 15 1958

#m0r16

0: /-25-01

HH 55103' DocId: 32989555

Page 8

SECRET

---

## Page 9

188-10308

SErv

157

=**

SEUREI

HH 55103 • DocId: 32989555

Page 9

---

## Page 10

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No. 100-341652

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECKEL

WASHINGION 25. D. C.

Запчачу 8, 1958

#moRlb

ASSIFTED BY SP-2ALM ALMATE

MEMORANDU FOR THE AZTORNEY GENERAI

RE :

ISIDORE GIBBY NEEDLELAN

INTERVAL SECURITY - R

INTERNAL SECURICT ACT OF 1950

Isicore Gubby Needleman is a fussian-born

naturalized citizen who has been described by an

informant who has furnished reliable information in

the post as a key man

in soviet espionage operations

in the United States in 1948. He has been a member

of the Communist Party,

V.s.do, and is known to have

been in contact with soviet officials on a number

of occasions since 1953.

Needleman was formerly

employed as an attorney for the Antorg Trading

Corporation in New York anuts currently engaged in

the practice of lau in New York.

In order to determine the extent of

Needleman's current activities, lit is requested that

authorization be granted for a technical surveillance

on Needleman's residence

at 110-30 64th Road,

Forest Hills, Long Island, New York, or any future.

address to which he might moue le) (y)

ALL INFORKATTON CONTAINED

Respectfully,

HEREIN IS UNORASST ETED EXCEPT

THERE SUOIN DATIERWISE..

Jin dea strover.

Director

Approve lUm

Date 1/9/58

Lettite aw Yard.

g00/ don

1-03-55

166341652-715

RECORDED-24

18 JAN 15 1958

4-131

Classified

Declassify

OADR eFt

H# 55103

'DocId: 32989555 Page 10

SERRET

---

## Page 11

188-10308

SEXET

SERET

HH 55103

ĐooId: 32989555

Page 11

---

## Page 12

ISECRET

UNITE

TATES DEPARTMENT OF JUS

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

CE

In Reply, Please Refer 30

File No.

100-430172

TrASHINGION 25, D. C.

June 21, 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

RE:

WORKERS WORLD PARTY

INTERNAL SECURITY - INVP

The Workers World Party (THP) consists of former

Socialist Workers Party (SIP) members who split from the SP

in rebruary.

1959. The liVP favors a stricter interpretation

oi Marxisn-leninisn based upon the writings of leon trotsky

than does the StiP.

This Bureau is currently investigating the WiP and

the SWP. The latter organization has been designated pursuant

to Executive Order 10450.

Milton Neidenberg was appointed organizer of the

Buffalo Branch of the WiP

on May 26, 1960, and it is anticipated

that he viii conduct mir business in his none. Current informants

repor.tine.on..thehnt.are.only able to report on weekly meetings.

lechnical coverage would materially aid the Buffalo office in

its investigation of Neidenberg and the liP, and would provide

immediate intelligence information regarding the organizational

efforts of the lill both locally and nationaily. It is noted

that most of the hiP membership is located in Buffalo, New York.

I recommend

therefore,

authorization of a surveillance

on the residence of Milton Neidenberg, 95 Busti Avenue, Buffalo,

...

New York, or at any other residence to which Neidenberg might

move.

DECIASSIPIED BY SP& Ma sade

4-13.94

ON

(IFS)

Respectfully,

anyone soover.

John Edgar Hoover

Director

•.

15+

Approved:

Date:

bette, see suffede

6-28-6°

1e2s torney General

SEGRET

REG. 9.

100-430172-16217

12 JUN 20 1959

-M 15103 DopId: 32989555 Page 12

---

## Page 13

188-10308

HH 55103 *DocId:32989555

Page 13

---

## Page 14

SEv.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDFRAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

100-430172

WASHINGION 25, D. C.

June 21, 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

RE:

WORKERS WORLD PARTY

INTERNAL SECURITY - WYP

The Workers World Party (WWP) consists of former

Socialist Workers Party (SWP) members who split from the SNP

In february, 15% The hit favors i stricter interpretation

of Marxism-Leninism based upon the writings of leon Trotsk

than does the sill.

This Bureau is currently investigating the WiP and

the SWP.

The latter organization has been designated pursuant

to Executive Order 10450.

Milton Neidenberg was appointed organizer of the

Buffalo Branch of the WWP

that he Bron conduce me business in his home current corants

on May 20,

reporting on the hiP are only able to report on weekly neetings.

Technical coverage would materially aid the Buffalo Office in

its investigation of Neidenberg and the line, and would provide

immediate intelligence information regarding the organizational

efforts of the wilf both locally and nationally: It is noted

that most of the hWP membership is located in Buffalo, New York.

1 recommend

therefore, authorization of a surveillance

on the residence of Milton Neidenberg, 95 Busti Avenue, Buffalo.

New York, or at any other residence to which Neidenberg might

move.

Respectfully,

BETASS TIED HIS PEE, back

1=13.4

(57K)

John Edgar Hoover

Director

-

1070

Approved:

Date:

here, hes suffal

6-20-6°

Acting Attorney General

62z2/60

REC- 9.

+00-450172-167

'12 JUN 20 1950

+ 4*

HH 55103 DocId:32989555 Page 14

GRET

SHARK.

---

## Page 15

-.-.-- .--

188-10308

toy

I₩ 55103 bocId:32989555

Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREJU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File I'o.

160-4861

WASHINGION 25, D. C.

January 30, 1958

MENORANDUA FOR THE ATTORNSY GENERAL

RE:

CARE WINTER

INTERNAL SSCURITY

-C

INTERNAL SECURITY

ACT OF 1950

SMITH ACT OF 1940

Carl Winter is a member of the National Conmittee ans

National Executive Cormittec of the Coumunist Party (CP), US.'.

In addition, he is state chairnan of the Michigan District of

the CP.

In these capacities, he is in close touch with Ci

activitics on state and

national levels.

Winter is a convicted Suith Act subject who has

served a prison tern and is currently free on bail as a result

of an indictment returned

against hin in 1948 charging

violation of the

menbership clause of the Smith Act of 1940.

It is felt that a technical surveillance on the

telophone located at the residence of Carl Winter would assist

in developing extremely valuable intelligence data concerning

CP activities on both a state and national level. Accordingly,

authority is requested to institute technical survelliance

coverage of Carl linter, 9550 Burnette Street, Detroit, michigan,

of at any other address

to which he might move.

Respectfully,

BSCLASSIFTED SYS!& Mac rede

ON

3-25-1

EFR

P John Edgar

Director

Approved

Date

1/31/58

TREC-18 / 00-4861-693

RIS FEBI & 1950

1-411

,

2-46-581

SECRET

HH

77910309010:389599 2

Bare 15

---

## Page 17

180-10308

•** + 1

1!

NH 55103 " DocId: 32989555

Page 17

---

## Page 18

UNITE

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUS-ICE

„FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION"

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File to. 100-4861

WASIINGION 25, D. C.

January 30, 1958

MENCRANDLI FOR THE ATTORNDY GENZRAL

RE:

CARE FINTER

NARAL SECURITY -

INTERNAL SECURITY ACT GE 1956

SMITH ACT CF 1940

Carl Winter is a member of the National Committee ana

National Executive Committee of the Comunist Party (CP), US:.

In addition, lie is state chaiman of the Michigan District of

the CY.

these capacities, he is in close touch wich CP

activitics on state and national levels.

Winter is a convicted Smith ict subject who has

served

a prison tern and is currently free on bail as a result

of an indictment returned

against hin in 1948 charging

Violation of the menbership clause of the Smith Act of 1940.

It is felt that a technical surveillance on the

• telephone located at the residence of Carl Winter would assist

• in developing extrenely valuade intelligence data concerning

• 'Ce activities on both a state and national level.

Accoralngey,

authority is requested to institute technical surveillance

coverage of Carl Winter,

9556 Burnette Street,

detroit, Michigan,

or at any other address

to which he might move.

Respectfully,

ON_

3-21-94

(IFR

Approved

um.

'Date

1/31/58

P John edga

Director

TREC 18 1 00-4861-693

• Its id the to

198

215 FEBI $ 1958

2-16-58

Pete, 200. 58).

SEÉRET

HH 55103 DooId:32989555 Page 18

Nиснатткас51790 452456

---

## Page 19

188-10308

1 , 6%

€ * ;

• see.

NH 55103 DocId: 32989555

Page 19

---

## Page 20

'OrMONa" tOAA NO. 10

UNITED STATES• COVERNME

Memorandum

TO

: Mix. Belmont

dibio

FROM

:C. A. Evans

bap

SURJECT: FRANK TRRARO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

DATE: January 17, 1964

JUNE

Tolson,

Belmont

Casper -

Callahan a

Conrad

Deloada

Evans.-

Gale .

ROSER ame

sullivas -

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tole. Room

Loimes —

randy -

SAC Marlin Johnson of the Chicago Division

¿elephonically

contacted the Bureau on the night of January 16, 1964, and

requested authorization to survey and install a microphone

surveillance covering the new residence of Frank Ferraro, Chicago

top hoodlun, at 2303 Outer Drive Sast, Chicazo, Illinois. usin

Ferraro is one of the major hoodlums in Chicago and

is moving into this ner apartment in the inmediate future.

SAC Johnson advised that he can make this installation with

full security on January 17, 1964, and that this opporturity

ACTION

In view of the importance of covering this major

hoodlum and in the light of the opportunity which exists for

installation of this coverage, together with the assurance by

Sac Johnson of complete security, cohnson was authorazed

to proceed with this installation.

1 - J. D. Donohue

AUT INFORMATION CONTAINED

BREIN IS UNCUASSIFI

AT 420-14 BYSSUMIN

(6)

REC. 26

92-155688 ins

22 JAN 24 1964

JAN 28 1964

HH 55103 DooId:32989555 Page 20

---

## Page 21

1888-10308

of--nee

IH 55103 DöcId:32989555 Paye 21 '

---

## Page 22

, UNITED STATES GOVERNME

Memorandum

TO

: Mx. Belmont

FROM

: C. A. Evans

6ap

SUBJECT: FRANK IRRARO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Tolsan

Belmos:

Mot

Casper.

Callahas

Conrad

DeLoadà

Evans

DATE: January 17, 1964

Gale

Rosta

Sullivas

Tavel

Trotter

JUNE

Tole. Room

I Quices

Gandy.

SAC Martin Johnson of the Chicago Division

telephonically

contacted the Bureau on the night of January 16, 195k, and

requested authorization to survey and install a microphone

surveillance covering the nen residence of frank ferraro, Chicago

top hoodlum, at 2303 Outer Drive Bast, Chicago, Illinois. win

y-.

Ferraro is one of the major hoodlums in Chicago and

is moving into this new apartment in the immediate future.

SAC Johnson advised that he can make this installation with

Tuls security on vargary 17, 1964, and that this opporturaty

till be available only on that date.

ACTION

In view of the importance of covering this uajor

hoodlum and in the light of the opportunity which exists

For

installation of this coverage, together with the assurance by

Sac Johnson of complete security, Johnson was authorized

to proceed with this installation.

ALL INFORMAZION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED"

" 1 ~ J. D. Donohue

ИсА: хар

(6)

VII-X3

REC, 26

6ml

JAN C& ISEA

HH 55103 DOOId:32989555

92 tripoline

22 JAN 24 1968

BASE BENIRS

Page 22

---

