# docid-32307014

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10291-10154

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 122-2557-236

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO :

SAC, NK

TITLE:

DATE: 07/08/1965

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

APR, CONV AND SUBS EVENTS, APPEAL, ASSOC, OC, SUSP,

RACK ACT, BRIBERY, JUDGES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE, R/S, ENV

v9.1

DocId: 32307014

2

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7/8/65

Alrtel

1 - Mr. Kieffer

To:

3ACB, Newart (82-732) (Inclonurers 4)

NOW TOLK (8-216)(0010n48084

From:

Director, T8X (22-86034- 236

ANTHONY PROVENZANO

WALTIR ALODORN-

VICTIM

AR; LIRA-IX

00: ' NX

DM

Tolson

Belmont

inclosed fOr Newark and New York are the copies

each and for Philadelphia ono copy c... of an undated.

-_..

anonymous note rocalved by the burosu and the same numbar

of copios of the front of the envelope 1n which it was

transmitted.

This onvelope 1g postnarked on 8/28/65 at

New York, New York, and bears the purported return addreas

of "234#s. fourth St. New York, NaY."

This noto allogos that there is a runor that a

"Judge Boxer"' of New York City has $250, 000 to "buy" three

Federal appeal judges in Philadelphia and a Federal judge

1n New Jersey to get a new trial for subject prevanzano.

For the information of New York and Philadelphia

which are not completely famillar with all prosecutivo

developments in this case, provenzano was convicted in vaDe,

Newark, on 8/11/63 of violating the Anti-Racketeering

statute.

He was sentenced on 1/12/83 to serve seven joans

in fall and iined $10, 000. This conviction nas appealed

to the third Circult Court of Appoals at Philadelphia and

Provenzeto vas permitted to remain froe on bail.

Third Clrcuit affirmed this conviction on 6/30/64 :. 1n

an opinion written by Chief Judge John Biggs, Jr. and

concurred in by Judges William H. Hastio and Willtan Y. Smith.

50

MAIL ROCM

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32307014 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Keleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107

Hotel.

Airtel to SACs,

Newark

New York

RE: ANTHONY PROVENZANO

The Supreme Court denied certiorari on 12/14/64.

On 1/4/65,

In USDC, Newark, Provenzano filed a

motion for a stay of operation o1 the mandate of the slicuit

Court of Appeals, a new trial and other relief.

Following

hearings thereon

this motion was denied by USds Robert shaw

on 3/30/65 at which time he also vacated the stay of mandate

which had been granted.

stay of mandate and at a hearing on 4/1/65 Judge Shaw denied

this application as well as Provenzano's application for

continuance of bail.

At another hearing held later on 4/1/65 Judge

Smith, third circuit court of Appeals, ruled that

Provenzano's application for continuance of ba1l

and stay

Of mandate should be argued before the full panel of the circuit

court at Philadelphia on 4/5/65.

At a hearing held that

datedin Philadelphia Provenzano's bail was continued until

his appeal from Judge Shaw's denial of his motion for a new

trial could be leard by the court of Appeals. The U.S.

Attorney's Office in Newark estimated this petition will

not be heard before September, 1965.

For the further infomation of New York, in

3/2s.

June, 1964, while Provenzano's appeal was pending

in the

Third Circuit, NK 2381-C-TE advised the Newark Office that

this appeal had been "fixed" by Frank J. V. Gimino and

Quirinuse Ricciardelli, Jersey City, New Jersey, attorneys.

it was stated that these individuals were in contact with

an unnamed Philadelphia attorney who is the son of one of

the Circuit Court judges and who acts as

liaison with the

judge. This judge allegedly was a close fiend of one of the

other judges and felt he could bring this other judge over

to his side "bottom of the pile"until the time was right.

case on the

The alleged plan was to keep the Provenzano

No active investigation was conducted concerning

this information.

After the Circuit Court affirmed Provenzano!s

conviction NK 2381-C-TE advised this was the fault of

Henry G. Singer (then Provenzano's attorney).

Singer reportedly

was to ask for a postponement because "their judge" would

- 2 -

DpcId: 32307014 Page 3

---

## Page 4

rele

Hote

he JeRn F. Hennely Assa

1-14 - 2017 •

nation Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107

Airtel to SACs, Newark

New York

RE: ANTHONY PROVENZANO.

not be on the bench as he was off attending & college

affair involving his son who was becoming a lawyer.

Singer allegedly did not listen and went ahead anyway.

While it is not desired that any investigation

which might interfere with the appeal action which is now

pending be conducted as regards the enclosed anonymous

note, it is felt that certain discreet inquiries are in

order at this time.

New York should ascertain whether

there is such an address as "234#s, fourth St. New York, N.Y."

and, if so, discreet inquiries should be made in an effort

to identify and interview indetail the writer of the anonymous

communication. In addition, New York should attempt, through

examination of appropriate public source material, to identify

the individual referred to in the anonymous communication as

"Judge Boxer."

In submitting its report in this case, New York

should

predicate its inguirles, in the first paragraph oi

the details, on the enclosed anonymous note,

This note

should be quoted in its entirety and pertinent information

concerning the transmittal envelope also should be reported.

It is not desired that the U. S. Attorney's Office

at Newark, be advised at this time of the receipt of the

mentioned anonymous note or the inquiries made pursuant thereto.

A copy of New York's report should not be designated for the

U. S, Attorney at Newark;; however, an extra copy should be

forwarded to Newark so it will be available for transmittal

to the U. S. Attorney at a later date should the Bureau so

direct.

Newark should contact NK 2381-C-TE and any other

appropriate confidential sources to determine whether they

have received any information concerning this alleged "fix"

of Provenzano®s appeal.

The Bureau should be advised of the

results of such inquiries by return matt.

Copies of all future communications concerning this

aspect of instant case should be designated for Philadelphia

for information in view of the pending appeal in the Third

Circuit Court of Appeals.

•3 -

DocId: 32307014 Page 4

---

