# docid-32299418

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10225-10198

HQ

105-114543-1ST NR 226

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, SJ

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/08/1965

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

JURE, VESSEL, VENUS, CREW MEMBERS, DESTINATIONS,

EXILE GROUPS, ACA, EGM, ASSOC, CAPTURE, CUBA,

TROOPS, BOATS, SANTO DOMINGO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32299418

Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

4-3/10 12-14-6119

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFISATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMANO

COPY

O AIRCRAM

CABLEGRAM

XX RADIO

TELETYPE

Tolson

Claimon -

Mohr

Dinanci

Oper

aliahan .-

Contad

felt

Gal'e

sulliva

Trolter

Tele. Room -

Holmes

Gandy.

22/57

ARTON CO

SHOWN

HEREI

FICEPT

OTHERWI

•CONTAINED

ALL INFORMATIO

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED 24,326

DATE 18/8

Class

R-20

Massily on: OADE J7

DEFERRED 2-8-65

STO DIRECTOR (105-172039) AND MIAMI {105-61332

y5668 S0/60

FROM SAN JUAN

081447

ON /5/97.

JURE,

MARINAL SECURTYN

SEGUNDO FRENTE NACIONAL DEL ESCAMBRAY (SNFE), IS-CUBA,..

NEUTRALITY ACT; 00: MIAMI.

•ON FEBRUARY 5 LAST TEODORO ENRIQUE CASADO CUERVO

(PROTECT), ARRIVED IN SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO ABOARD THE

MOTOR VESSEL "SHARK 5'"

FROM EIGHT MONTHS IN SANTO DOMINGO,

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. ABOARD WERE SIX MEMBERS OF THE CREW

OF THE "VENUS," A JURE VESSEL, WHO WERE EN ROUTE TO MIAMI

THE FOUR REMAINING CREW MEMBERS ABOARD THE VENUS ARE

SPза0

PRESENTLY EN ROUTE FROM SANTO DOMINGO TO PUERTO CABELLO,

VENEZUELA WHERE THEY WILL AWAIT FURTHER ORDERS FROM JURE.

RYS

CASADO STATES THAT HE HAD SPOKEN WITH DOMINICAN GENERAL

(FIRST NAME UNKNOWN) ATILA LUNA, WHO STATED THAT ELOY

GUTIERREZ MENOYO AND HIS THREE COMPANIONS FROM THE SNFE

RECENTLY CAPTURED IN CUBA, DID NOT TRAVEL TO CUBA BY BOAT,

BUT IN FACT WERE TRANSPORTED BY AIRPLAME ÄND DROPPED IN BY

PARACHUTE ON THREE SUCCESSIVE NIGHTS ABOUT DECEMBER 15,

1964. THE PLANE USED WAS AN UNMARKED DOMINICAN AIR FORCE

PLANE:

CASADO STATED THAT AS OF FEBRUARY 3. LAST, THE

SNFE STILL HAS OVER 100 MEN IN THEIR BASE IN SANTO DOMINGO

AND THE USE OF TWO BOATS, THE "MAMEYES" AND A SMALL SIGMA

TYPE LAUNCH BELONGING TO THE MDC.

MARIANO BATISTA FALLA,

rota

82449173

405-1145-43

NOT

RECORDEO

• 40FÉB 769965

69 FEB 2 4 1965

105 0000 FOR.

f the intelligence contained in the aböve messare is to be disseminati

acropheesed

duct the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

agested that, it be suitably

HH

54464

DocId: 32299418

Page 2

---

## Page 3

#-3-(Bav" 12-14-64)

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr .

DeLogch

Casper

Callahan.

Contad

Felt

DECODED COPY

• AIRGRAM

O CABLEGRAM XX RADIO

O TELETYPE

PAGE 2, FROM SAN JUAN 081447

MILITARY LEADER OF THE MDC, IS IN. THE CAMP WITH THE SNFE.

CASADO STATED THAT THE "BERTRAM'' MODEL BOAT IS NAMED THE

"JUANIN" AND IS A 31 FOOT BOAT WITH TWO, 275 HORSEPOWER

CHRYSLER INBOARD MARINE ENGINES. THE JUANIN BELONGS TO THE

DRE, AND IS MOORED IN SANTO DOMINGO TOGETHER WITH A SMALL

PT TYPE BOAT OF THE DRE NAMED THE "SUSAN ANN." CASADO

STATED THAT THE SUSAN ANN WAS THE PT BOAT USED BY THE DRE

:ON A RAID. ON CUBA WHERE AN HAVANA

THEATER WAS SHELLED:

CASADO: STATED THAT THE MR HAS 78 MEN AND A LAUNCH NAMED

"GITANA" AT A BASE LOCATED ON BEATA ISLAND, ON THE SOUTH

COAST OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, WEST OF THE CITY OF SANTO

DOMINGO. THE MAIN MRR BASE IS STILL LOCATED IN NICARAGUA.

THE GITANA IS ONE OF THE TWO BOATS USED BY THE MRR ON THE

ATTACK ON THE SPANISH MERCHANT SHIP OFF OF CUBA THIS

ATTACK BY THE MR WAS WITH THE FULL KNOWLEDGE AND UNDER

THE DIRECTION OF CIAMIR 4)

SOURCE STATED THAT TONY CUESTA, OF COMANDOS L WAS IN

THE PROCESS OF SHIPPING.

A LAUNCH TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

FROM MIAMI AND ESTABLISHING A, BASE, IN SANTO DOMINGO.

ONI, OS1, INTO, INS, U.S. CUSTOMS AND U. S. COAST

GUARD ADVISED LOCALLY:

AIRTEL AND LETTERHEAD MEMORANDUM FOLLOWS.

PECEIVED:

12:35 PM LRC

• Tele. Room :

Holmes i"

Gandy -

CON

AL

If the intelligence contained in the above

message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, "it is suggested that it be suitably

i eate motent the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 54464 DooId: 32299418 Page 3

---

