# docid-32187936

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10247-10146

RECORD SERIES: MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-8342-150. 151

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

OFLAHERTY. JOHN JAMES

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/13/1963

PAGES: 41

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-660, 731

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

05/07/1996

STATUS

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC LTR, RPT

NH 53025 DocId:32187936 Page 1

---

## Page 2

-265 FEv. 5-1-591

=

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING REVEYORK

OFFICEBA PRISIS

TITLE OF CASE

DAI2/13/53

REPPORNADFAMES O'FLAHERTY

LEE HARVEY OSWALD aka

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - R

REFERENCE

at NY.

Report of SA JOHN JAMES O'FLAHERTY, dated 12/11/63

-P-

AD'INISTRATITE

Information copy being furnished to New Orleans

Office in view of their interest in investigation re subject.

This rrport contains results of investigation con-

ducted prior to rerep but not received in time for inclusion

in rerep.

It Is to be noted that Nytel to Bureau and SAC,

Dallas, 11/27/63, contained Information re subject from

f11es

Of NYC Department of Welfare which indicated that

subject was processed by that Department in June, 1902,

and subsequently departed NY for texas.

Instant report

contains additionai information as reflected in Welfare

SPECIAL AGEN

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

10 - Bureau (105-82555) (RM,

2 - Dallas (RM)

1 - New Orleans (Info)

1- New Fork: (105-384315944)

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

/oST 8.3421

15/

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

BY

1N 33025 Do010:32187936 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 105-38431

ADMINISTRATIVE CONT'D

file concerning subject's association with and assistance

received from the above-mentioned Department.

It is to be noted that in connection with inquiry

conducted at Bankers Trust Company, NYC, as reflected herein,

a review of the NYO indices failed

to reflect any information

identifiable with RAMON B. CORTES, (FNU) FERNANDEZ FEITO or

(FNU) SAAVEDRA.

It would also appear that the two SAAVEDRA

individuals,

which names appeared in the records of the above

bank, are not identical with (FNU) SAAVEDRA as set forth in

Miami tel to Director, 12/9/63.

NYO will continue to conduct investigation re

subject on the basis of teletypes received from Bureau,

office of origin - Dallas, and other offices.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NY T-1

NY -711-S

File Number Where Located

134-69

NY T-2

CIA

instant file

confidential source, referred to herein, is ROBERI

A. WEBBER, Auditing Department, 16 Wall Street, NYC, NY

(protect by request).

CIASSIFICATION

This report being classified "Secret" inasmuch as

Information reported herein as received from CIA, which

Information is also set forth in Miami tel to Director and

SACS,

Dallas and NY, 12/9/63, was similarly classified by

CIA.

- B*

COVER

PAGE

-

HH 53025

DooId:32187936

Page 3

---

