# docid-32341750

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10015-10398

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 201-289248

Released under the John

=. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

06-06-2017

April 18, 1996

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5

•Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponement # 1 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that

properly may be withheld under Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act. The Board is awaiting additional

evidence from the CIA, at which time it will reconsider the postponement.

Substitute Language: Use pseudonym.

Release Date: 05/1996

Postponement # 2 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Crypt and Descriptor

Release Date: 03/2006

Postponement # 3 (Page 2):

HH 53199

DocId: 32341750

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that

properly may be withheld under Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act. The Board is awaiting additional

evidence from the CIA, at which time it will reconsider the postponement.

Substitute Language: Use pseudonym.

Release Date: 05/1996

Board Review Completed: 03/19/96

53199

DocId: 32341750

Page

---

## Page 3

Date: 03/25/96

Page:

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

CIA

104-10015-10398

JFK

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

• DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

DIRECTOR CIA

MEXICO CITY

CABLE - ALVARADO IS FABRICATING HIS STORY

IN THE CUBAN EMBASSY.

2

LIAISON

ALVARADO UGARTE

FABRICATION

OSWALD,

LEE H.

CUBA EMBASSY

MEXICO CITY

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

JATE OF LAST REVIEW

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SECRET

1A, 1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

12/13/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

: OSW1:V7 1993.12.13.17:22:31:430028:

SEEING OSWALD TAKEN MONEY

shootins

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53199

DocId: 32341750

Page

---

## Page 4

ORiG jU

UNIT

: *.

EXT

DATE :

JOKIN. V

LEN

, C/WH

3

D INDEX

5613

• NO INDEX

27 MOVEM

BAR 19635 FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

34 SECRET

12-62

ROUTING

4

2

6

TO :

PRIORITY MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

authorizer

RECORDS

OFFICER

STAMS,

ng action 1s

SO SENSILIZE

NOV. 27 2230Z 63

CONF:

C/WH 4

INFO :.

DCI, DDP, C/C| 2, VR

TO

PRIORITY MEXI

PRIOREN

INFO

MANA Note:

MYRAT GPFLOOR

Signed:

sar

R.0. 43 - Unst C/NAA

If destruczion,

cite

reasons and coordinate

DIR

1f appropriato.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

85616

IN THE FACE OF MOUNIING EVIDENCE THAT

ALVARADO IS FABRICATING HIS STORY OF

BERING OSWALD SAKE MONEY INTHE CUBAN EMBASSY, URGE YOU FOLLOW UP WITH HIS LOCAL

NIC CASE OFFICER AND AVAIL YOURSBLE OF THE HELP OF THE NIC SERVICE, WHICH CAN

SUND ENTI

KROID 3, A GOOD KUBARK ASSET, TO HELP IN THE INTERROGATION. WE FIND IT

ALE THAT THE CUBANS WOULD BRIDE AND PAY AN ASSASSIN IN FRONT OF A NIC

Number

Document

APR 1976

Review on

FOLA

INTERLOPER.

WE THINK IT POSSIBLE OR EVEN LIKELY THAI HE HAS BEEN IN AND OUT OF THE

CUBAL INBASSY AS A NIC AGENT TRYING TO INFILIRATE CUBA AND HAS PICKED UP

THE NAMES

AND FACES THERE IN SO DOING. ALL HE HAS SAID ABOUT OSWALD HE COULD

HAVE GOTTEN FROM THE NEWSPAPERS, EXCEPT FOR CERTAIN INCORRECT ITEMS SUCH AS

HIS STATEMENT THAT OSWALD WORE GLASSES.

•2. THE PACT THAT ALVARADO IS A CALM, MICS, HAD INTHLLIGET YOUNG MAN DOES NOT

MEAN HE IS NOI A FABRICATOR. FYI WE AND OTHER AGENCIES ARE BEING FLOODED BY

3

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

1976

CONDUCTED ON 24 MAY

BY 0/2208

ABRICAVIONS ON THE GPFLOOR CASE FROM SEVERAL CONTINENTS, SOME ORIGINATING WITH

PEOPLE ON THE FRINGES OF THE INTELLIGENCE BUSINESS. SUCH FABRICATIONS

IMPDET (

ARE NOT USUALLY DONE FOR MONEY, BUT OUI OF SICKLY FANCY AND A DESIRE TO GET

SITO

THE INTELTIGENCE GAME.

201-28924

WE DO NOT THINK IT A REMARKABLE COLNCIDENCE THAT BOTH

DORTICOS AND ALVARADO

TALK ABOUT MONEY PAID TO OSWALD.: FOR ONE THING, PAY FOR AN ASSASSIN IS A FACTOR

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1

RELEASING ÖFFICER

D:200

1-41

Excluded from automatic

CS COPU

downgrading and.

declassification

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy. No.

HH 53199

DocId: 32341750

Page 4

---

## Page 5

¡OR!G:

UNIT

:$=

EXT

-DATE

"TO

FROM

DIRECTOR

CONF

• INEO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

• INDEX

• NO INDEX

• FILE IN CS FILE NO.

See Sanitized File _

Number

For sterile copy of this document.

2

3

12-62

ROUTING

6

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIR

5313

WHICH INMEDIATELY RISES IN THE MIND OF EXPERT AND LAYMAN ALIKE. SECONDLY,

DORIICOS MAY HAVE HEARD THROUGH SOME RUSSIAN OR CUBAN SOURCE IN THE MEXICAN

GOVERNMENT THAT DURAN WAS ASKED WHETHER THE CUBANS PAID OSWALD FOR THE ALLEGED

ASSIGUMENT.

4. WHILE WE DO NOT INSIST THAT ALVARADO'S STORY IS BEYOND ALI BELIEF, WE DO URGE

THAT MEXI PLACE IT AND ALVARADO UNDER THE MOST SEARCHING SCRUTINY.

HIS

INTERROGATORS MUST PROBE DEEPLY INTO HIS MAKE-UP AND LEAD HIM BACK THROUGH THE

THOUGHT PROCESSES WHICH MAY HAVE LED HIM TO MAKE THIS POSSIBLE MIS-SIPP. IN

SECURING CONFESSIONS OF FABRICATION, A SYMPATHETIC AITITUDE, STRESSING AWARENESS

OF THE SEVERE MENTAL STRAIN THE SUBJECT MUST BE UNDER, AND WITH GENEROUS

RECOGNITION OF HIS "BASICALLY FINE MOTIVATION," COUPLED WITH PROMISES OF

FACE-SAVING SECRECY, AND EVEN SPECIOUS HOPES OF"USEFUL"FUTURE COOPERATION

ARE OFTEN ENFECTIVE. HOURS MUST BE DEVOTED, TO, THESE TACTICS.

5. HAVE JUST RECEIVED MIXI 710756% CONCUR

LEND ALL ASSISIANCE AND

INDUCE NIC SERVICE TO COOPERATE! & THENK YS

PRE IS JUST NO POSSIBILITY THAT THIS IS

A NIC FRAME-UP, BUT HOPE NIC COOPERATION WILL"PROVE MERI

END OF MESSAGE

C/S Comment: *IN 69310-If Hqs,ragrees suggest Majon Jerez be cabled to

ate without question and be present during interrogation.

J.C. KING

C/WHDD

RELEASING. OFFICER

REPRODLCTION

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

SEGRET

downgrading and

declassification

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE

PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

HH 53199 DocId: 32341750

Page 5

---

