# docid-32305248

## Page 1

DATE: 11-14-2017

Reteny assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10287-10378

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2074

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SD

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

PACES:

SUBJECTS :

08/11/1967

7

LCN, ASSOC, RES, REL, NARCOTICS, FINANCES, MEETING,

LAPORTE, FRANK, FGJ

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DocTa: 32305248

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote)-

DATE: 11-14-2017

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

8/11/67

ТО:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

FROM:

SAC, SAN DIEGO (92-229) (P)

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

(00:

NEW YORK)

Re San Diego airtel to the Bureau dated 8/9/67•

SD 1064-C-TE was recontacted on 8/9/67 and furnished

the following information on La Cosa Nostra (LCN):

4)

- Bureau (AM-REG)

(3 - 92-6054)

(1 - 137-9187)

St. Louls

(AM-REG)

Detroit (92-914) - (AM-REG)

- san francisco 92-253

(AM-REG)

Los Angeles (92-1112 (AM-REG)

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

New York 92-2300) AM-REG

chicago (92-1173) (AM-REG)

Phoenix AM-REG)

- New Orleans

(AM-REG)

ton vegas. (93-625) (1n8o) (AN-REO) E0 102

Kansas City

92-003Info (AM-REG)

Cleveland

92-748) (Info) (AM-REG)

Into) (AM-REG

RACHAD

9260542074724

Tampa

(92-218) Info (AM-REG

San Diego

(2 - 92-229)

18 AUG 14 1967

(1 - 137-1088)

J DA:mt

( 28)

совіжні

3418

a Stoved:

HUG 40 Special Agent in Charge

Sent

Per

137-9187

DocId: 32305248

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

SD 92-229

I.

NEW YORK DIVISION

Informant had no definite Information regarding

the successor of TOMMY LUCHESE but stated there was a

possibility that the Under-Boss under LUCHESE would be

elevated to the boss of that family.

New York, note in previous contacts with this

informant he advised a former New York Congressman was an

Let member.

He identified former U. S. Congressman, MARCO

ANTONIO, as that congressman who was a member of the LON.

The informant has received this information from his friends,

MARCO, aka.,

"MIMI" LI MANDRI, and his son, JOE LI MANDRI.

Both are ICN members residing in San Diego.

MARCO 1s the

father to JOE.

Both were involved in narcotics when they

resided in New York City and both served time together for

narcoties activities before leaving the New York area and

settling in San Diego.

II.

ST. LOUIS AND DETROIT DIVISIONS

Informant advised that

on 8/5/07, he received a

call from St. Louis boss, TONY GLARDANO, who was staying at

the Beverly Hilton Hotel, Beverly Hills, California.

agreed to meet GIARDANO in Los Angeles on Monday, 8/7/67•

On that date, he drove to Los Angeles and found GIARDANO

staying at the Beverly hilton with his Jewish companion,

ARTHUR SAPRON, who has two sisters, living in the los angele

rea-LONY GIARDANO wanted a meeting with JOHN ROSPILT

Informant arranged for the meeting and was present with OIARDANO and

ROSELLI, on 8/7/67.

• GIARDANO had come to Los Angeles on behalf

of the Detroit LeN

family.

He advised them that the first week

the Frontier Hotel was opened in Las Vegas, they lost $250,000

on the gambling tables and that if this loss kept up, they

would have to close down. He stated that their biggest

problem was getting people to come to the hotel and that

they needed some top-flight floor shows. Apparently the Frontier

Hotel was opened without having top shows bookedand how they

were having trouble getting the shows that would draw people

into this hotel.

- 2-

DocId: 32305248 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

SD 92-229

The Detroit family sent GIARDANO to Beverly H1lls

In an attempt to get ROSELLI to use his influence with

theatrical agents to get these shows.

Informant advised that ROSELLI did not indicate

he could help them and confidentlally stated that the old

timers, like ROSELII and himself, are sitting back now and

laughing at the aggressive younger hoodlums in the

themselves and getting in over their heads in attempting to

run a big Las Vegas Hotel and Casino.

the meeting ended, however, with ROSELLI agreeing

co meet wich TONY ZERILLI (son of JOE ZERILLI of Detroit

between 8/15-17/67 in Palm Springs, California.

Informant stated that he is the only one who knows

of this meeting besides those persons involved and that if

any close FBI surveillance in Palm Springs is discovered by

the participants, it would seriously jeopardize his position.

Informant stated

that as far as he knows, the only reason

for the meeting between ROSELLI and TONY

ZERILLI As to attempt

to arrange for top entertainment at the Frontier Hotel.)

Informant stated that at no time did TONY GIARDANO

tell him that the St. Louls family held points in the Frontier

Hotel, but that he assumes they do as a result of GIARDANO's

efforts on behalf of ZERILLI.

At this meeting with the informant, he again

induated that JOE ZERILLI is "traveling"

as a result of some

subpoena outstanding. He had no further information in this

regard.

III.

LOS ANGELES DIVISION

с лу

Informant advised that he was notified on 8/5/67

by his "Capo" JOE ADAMO of San Diego regarding the death of

the Los Angeles ICN boss, FRANK DESIMONE.

ADAMO instructed him

that the orders received

from Under-Boss NICKYLICATA instructed

all members to remain away from the funeral so that there would

be no embarrassing incident for the family.

- 3 -

DocId: 32305248 Page

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SD 92-229

Informant, who holds the Los Angeles ICN family

leadership in low regard, told ADAMO he was going anyway

and that he did not consider LICATA his boss.

Incormand advised chat he drove

on Monday, 8/7/07, and

He saw in attendance Capo JOE DIPPOLITO but did not see

NICK LICATA. He belleves he was the only one there from the

San Diego decina.

He also observed members of the Los Angeles

Police Department Intelligence Detail and knew that they would

follow him until he left Los Angeles. In order to meet with

TONY GIARDANO, he swung out of the funeral procession at a

turn and got away from the Los Angeles Police Department

unit following the funeral procession.

In this way he was

able to meet with GIARDANO and ROSELLI later at the Beverly

Hilton.

At this meeting, the informant advised that there

has not been time to formulate any definite plans to choose

the new LCN boss for the Los Angeles family.

He expects both

NICK LICATA and DIPPOLITO to make a try for it. (The informant

will also attempt to get the position.) He believed it would

take a month or more for LICATA to arrange for a family

meeting to choose a successor.

He stated that in all

probability the meeting would take place in the ranch and

vineyard country around Cucamonga, California, and that in

all probability, JOE DIPPOLITO would help in making the

arrangements.

The informant advised that he would only receive

a phone call and be told when to report to Los Angeles

and that after arriving in Los Angeles, he would be told where

to go and would be unable to stop and make any phone calls

from that point on.) Informant stated the Los Angeles family

would elect their own boss and that if they could not agree

or if internal fighting for the position developed, the

commission would then make the decision for them.

He stated that in his own decina, he hoped to get

the backing of due and MARCO Li MANDRI, PRANk BALISIRIERI,

and PHILLIPO, DAMIANO.

he expected opposition crom his capo,

JOE ADAMO, and LEO DIA. He stated that DIA is still vacationing

in Europe.

ust

7- 4 -

DocId: 32305248 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

SD 92-229

слу

under her. He furnished no information indicating VELOTTA

is involved in burglaries at this time.

In regard to Gambler EDDIE, NEALIS, he advised that

NEALIS 1s up and around again after his serious heart attack

and that he was recently over to las Vegas and brought back

word that the Detroit mob's new hotel,

The Frontier,

badly 'In need of some experienced gambling employees.

Neut

IV.

PHOENIX DIVISION

Informant advised that he heard CHARLIE "BATZ"

BATTAGLIA of Tucson was recently in the Los Angeles area visiing

his brother, JOHN BATTAGLIA, in prison. He stated that as far

Route me the bonan ely same to ease atta then a ro

until the Bonano family makes its peace with the

commission.

V.

CHICAGO DIVISION

Informant advised that Capo FRANK LA PORTE of

Chicago was in San Diego to appear before the Federal Grand

Jury on 8/2/67 and that he left on 8/4/67. He was accompanied

by MIKE /PAOLETTA, his brother-in-law, whom he employees at

Co-Op Music Company•

He stated that PAOLELIA 1s not an

CN member. While LA PORIE was in San Diego, they all had

dinner together. Those present were informant, LA PORTE,

PAOLETTA, FRANK VELOTTA, HARRY BIANCONI, a local San Diego

hoodlum who has been used by the ICN as a messenger carrier

and contact man for years, as well as his partner, JOE/ESTY.)

ESTY's true name 1s JOE ESPOSITO. He is the son of DIAMOND

JOE ESPOSITO of Chicago. ESTY is now in partnership with

BIANCONI, developing a packaging process and was attempting to

get LA PORTE to invest in 1t.

- 5-

DocId: 32305248 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

SD 92-229

VI.

SAN FRANCISCO DIVISION

Informant advised FRED/RE CUPIDO 1s selling the

trucking equipment repossessed from FRATIANO so that

LA PORLE will not lose as much money. He stated that, to date,

RE CUPIDO has sold four of the trailers repossessed from

FRATIANNO. RE CUPIDO is now attempting to sell four of

the tractors repossessed from FRATIANNO and that if he is

successful, LA PORTE won't lose very much money as a result

of FRATIANNO being unable to stay in business.

He stated

that JEWEL FRATIANNO quit running the Fratianno Trucking

Office fora few days but has returned to the office.

1s still talking about divorcing FRATIANNO as a result of

his love affair with the prostitute, JEAN BOUDI. He stated

that FRATIANNO actually wants to marry BOUDL. He stated

that FRATIANNO 1s broke at this time.

In regard to ANGELO MARINO, LCN member at San Jose,

informant advised as far as he knows,

he is bick in San Jose

at the California Cheese Company and he would be contacting

him in a few weeks.

VIL.

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

In view of the New Orleans Office's

FRANCESCO PAOLO COPPOLA, aka.,

Three Finger's, Inte int ormant

was questioned further about COPPOLA. (He stated that while

he was with TONY GIARDANO recently in Los Angeles,) he asked

him about COPPOLA and learned that COPPOLA is now serving

a 15-year jail term in a Rome, Italy, prison and that the

Italian Goverrment has confiscated his property. The

informant is of the impression that TONY GIARDANO is still

somehow in contact with COPPOLA.

- 6 -

DocId: 32305248 Page 7

---

