# docid-32288690

## Page 1

Released under the John f. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection ACt OF 1992 (44 USC 2T0T Hotey.*

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10199-10466

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 87-66742-286

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

ENGSTROM, ARTHUR W.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/24/1964

• PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32288690

Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

£'D-263; Rer. 5-1-891

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVLSTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DENVER

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/24/64

6/5 - 19/64

REPORT MADE BY

ARTHUR W.

CHARLES WILLIAM BRAY;

ENGSTRON

TYPED BY

JM

FELIX ANTHONY ALDERISIO, Aka;

CHARACTER OF CASE

IRWIN S. WEINER;

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., Aka;

PAN-AMERICAN BANK OF MIAMI,

11,31

ITAR - EXTORTION, ITSP; MI

OOJ (ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION

FLORIDA - VICTIM

REFERENCE: Bureau Radiogram to Denver 6/4/64.

Denver Airtel to Bureau 6/5/64.

Denver Airtel to Bureau 6/19/64.

- P -

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEI

LEADS

HERER IS UNCLASSIFIED

CHICAGO

GATE 1/28/86 BYSpyKu

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS: Will ascertain if JOE STEIN,

who is reported to be associated with First National Mortgage

Company and who, according to HUGH BEST, can be contacted at

Chicago telephone number 321-1710, is a known associate ôf FELIX

ANTHONY ALDERISIO:

MIAMI

at Denver

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA: Will discuss results of investigation

with Departmental Attorney ROBERT D. PELOQUIN for the

purpose

ascertaining whether or not JOHN MARING and ROCCO J.

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

(32

Bureau

2-

(87-66742)

286

Chicago (87-19740)

3-

Miami (87-16480) 0961

(1- ROBERT

2a Denver: 16783, prodi a

3 JUN 26

243

3

57

IN EN

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORI

- Criminal Dividónt!

NOTATIONS

AGENCY

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWS.

HOW FWA

fet.

STAR

Attention:

Mr.

Walter J. Sheridan

Room 2509

вита

Spee. Taken Neck

MINENT PRINTING OFFICE

16-76324-1

JULIET

TENT

C

DocId: 32288690

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel?

DATE: 11-14-2017

DN 87-8318

BONOMO, both of Denver, Colorado, should be interviewed as to

message reported to have been delivered to HUGH BEST by MARINO

and which related to an attempt to have JAMES W. EGAN contact

ALDERISIO's attorney at Denver and furnish affidavit repudiating

information previously furnished by him in order to avoid any

future difficulty.

DENVER

AT DENVER, COLORADO: Will maintain contact with

both JAMES W. EGAN and HUGH BEST in order to obtain any

information as to possible future contacts with JOHN MARINO

or others expressing an interest in the prosecution of ALDERISIO

at Miami, Florida.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

CS DN-280 advised SA ELMER A. SAMSON on 6/18/64

that the telephone number of Area Code 312, #321-1710 was

listed in the name of LEONARD B. SALLMAN, Attorney, 1 West

Wacker Drive, Room 3800, and that there was an additional

listing in the name of First National Mortgage Company.

B*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32288690

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F, Kennedy AssassinatIon Recoeds Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210710

DATE:, 11-14-2017

ĐN 87-8318

-2-

of fact "they" even had knowledge concerning MARINO, EGAN,

and BEST having breakfast at the Continental Denver some

four or five weeks previous.

BEST stated that he has been genuinely concerned

as to SCAN's welfare and for this reason wanted to warn EGAN

about the couments made by MARINO.

He continued that EGAN

was out of town when he, BEST, returned from Phoenix, but

that at the earliest possible time, which he belleved to have

been on June 3, 1964, he had relayed the nature of his con-

versation with

MARINO.

BEST stated that EGAN had not indicated to him what

action he might take with regard to this information and as

a matter of fact had not had an opportunity to discuss the

matter with EGAN inasmuch as EGAN had been on another busi

ness trip and was not expected to return until sometime

during the weekend on June 6 - 7, 1964.

2522

With rogerd to MARINO, BEST stated that he has

noted that MARINO frequently boasts about his contacts in

Chicago and has seemed to want to impress him with the fact

that he knows individuals who are indicated as being a part

of the hoodlum element. He stated that he could not recall

that MARINO has ever mentioned any particular person by

name, and the nature of his contact with MARINO has been

such that he had no basis for either believing or disbelieving

any statement made by him.

Me. BEST stated that he contemplated keeping in

contact with MARINO in order that he might be able to secure

specific information as to the source of the message which

was intended for JAMES W. EGAN.

He stated that any informa

tion obtained by him as a result of his contacts with MARIND

would be promptly furnished to the FBI.

3

DocId: 32288690 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej?

DATE: - 11-14-2017

DN 87-8318

Mr. BEST stated that he would continue in his e

attempt to secure additional information from MARINO as to

the source of information initially related by MARIN and

which involved an alleged message for JAMES W. EGAN to the

effect that he could avoid any more trouble if he would

contact ALDERISIO's Denver attorney and furnish an affidavit

repudiating his original information as furnished to the

Government.

10

No: M:88

DocId: 32288690

Page 5

---

