# docid-32336844

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90135-10239

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82298-88

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/17/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

FD-302

v9.1

DocId: 32336844

Page 1

.

---

## Page 2

Released-under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hotel.

SEARED

FD-302

36/83

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION A

Date

January 17, 1961

SFormant

MIGUEL ANTONIO SANCHEZ,

RAMOS stated in regard

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO,

that GUTIERREZ is a Spaniard

and a long time Communist. He was formerly the owner

Dom Refi

of a combination bar and restaurant in Havana, Cuba,

former Mayor of Havana.

of the second rebel front known as the second

He was assisted in the organization

of this second front by the organizacion Autentico,

which is a military branch of Cubano Partido Revolicionario

Autentico, a political party headed by Dr. CARLOS PRIO

CuBA

SOCARRAS, Former President of Cuba. 15

GUTIERREZ with WILLIAM MORGAN a United States

soldier of fortune,

were the ones who arranged for

the simulated revolt of CASTRO forces with Generalissimo

TRUJILLO's help in Trinidad,

Cubà, In Auguet of 195%,

During this hoax,

a plane loaded

with arms and men,

who were anti-CASTRO, were lured to Trinidad, Cuba,

where they were captured and sentenced to long

in the CASTRO jails. Several of the members of this

group were believed to have been/killed.

GUTIERREL

on one occasion, convinced JOHN ABBES GARCIA, Chiel

of the Dominican Military Intelligence Service SW

through a radio message directed to ABBES,

that he

wanted to walk the streets of Santa Clara, Cuba, in

a uniform like the one TRUJILLO wears on special

occasions, the one with the feather bed chid too

a great admirer of TRUJILLO.

place during approximately the same time as the plans

for the invasion were being made, at Trinidad, Cuba...:

The end result of this radio message of GUTIERREZ was

that TRUJILLo's personal tailor was ordered to stan

and await the measurements via radio of GUTIERREZ.

Room 615

Roger Williams Hotel

on 1/13/61

at

28 E. 31st St., NYC

FIle # 134-5785

SAS STEVE D.

•EVANS and

by HEINRICH VON ECKARDT/bk

Date dictated 1/16/61

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions

of the FBI.

outs agent agened.

10.

8229

88

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32336844

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Astassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 134-5785

SANCHEZ stated that he does not believe that the

measurements ever arrived in the Dominican

Republic.

SANCHEZ staïed, however,

that it was later heard in

the Dominican Republic that GUTIERREZ dressed a

chimpanzee in a uniform very similar to that of

TRUJILLO and paraded him through the streets of

Santa Clara.

GUTIERREZ had a brother who was killed during

the rebel attack on the Cuban Presidential Palace

on March 13, 1958. The name of this brother Is

unknown to SANCHEZ. GUTIERREZ Is believed to be at

the present time a major in CASTRO's army.

SANCHEZ stated that he is unable to furnish

any descriptive data concerning GUTIERREZ as he has

never had the opportunity to see him in person.

*(V)

(a):

2

DocId: 32336844

Page 3

---

