# docid-32301778

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/22/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10279-10113

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-91841-39

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

SEE TITLE

FROM:

[Restricted]

TO :

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

20

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

11/14/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32301778

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the Johh E. Kennedy

Assassination Records collecti

DATE:

11-14-2017

SECRET

Our Ref:

•52/5

1151

-35,

"X"

16th May, 1967.

classied by aren

James HAWTHORNE

Declassify on:

DADR Sfie

Meli

Please refer to my

memoranda reference SF.52/5 of 9th

February

and 7th March 1967, and to your memoranda in reply

dated 17th February and 2nd March 1967.

WA

In view of the serious security implications of

allegations relating to plans to smuggle arms into the Bahamas

and the need to elicit the truth of these allegations,'

contact with HAWIHORNE was maintained both in the Bahamas and in

which he visited again in March allegedly to make contact

with those concerned with arms smuggling.

He did in fact leave

for Europe via the U.K. (where he was refused permission

being already the subject of an exclusion order on 21st March,

some two days before (so I understand,

your Miami Office notified

the Bahamas Police that he is currently regarded as a fugitive

During the course of his visit to Europe, he and his

contacts have been subjected to an intelligence type investigation

while at the same time contact has been maintained with HAWTHORNE

for the purposes of determining the truth or otherwise of his

4.

a result of our investigations we are now satisfied that:

(a)

HAWTHORNE'S

story about arms being purchased in

Europe for use in the Bahamas is without substance,

and

(b)

HAWTHORNE did have some part to play in plans in-

volving certain other U.s.

as well as U.K.

citizens

to ship arms (within the letter of the law) to Centra

MI-S

America with a purchase certificate to be provided

by the Nicaraguan Government,

and possibly for trans-

MAY 1 7 1967

shioment elsewhere.

deal is believed to be

worth 4,000,000 dollars, and no doubt HAWTHORNE ana

nis American contact, Samuel BENTON Aat present in.

London) hoped to make a handsome profit themselves..

HAWTHORNE was last heard of by us staying at the

Frankfurterhof Hotel in Frankfurt, Germany, as a

guest in either

126 or 162, and registered in the name of RICHARDS - actually

recently acquired British wife, Marian A RICHARDS:

He is without funds even to cover his hotel bills and (least of all

(b) above.

91841-3

opassed the information tout HAWOKENE as

paragraph" 5

above to Mr. Bledsoe today by telephone,

and said that

as 1a129

MAY 25 1967

ENCLOSURE

-Q JUN 6- 1967

DocId: 32301778 Page 2

---

## Page 3

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Fote).

DATE R

119-7452017

CHEN

be glad to see you take appropriate action in conjunction with the

West German police authorities, subject to

the source of your

information not being quoted outside the F.B.I.

As a service we are not concerned with arms traffic to

Central America and will be making no further enquiries on this

matter.

Nevertheless, we think you may find the various reports

of our contacts with HAWIHORNE to be of interest both in the

Domestic Intelligence and Special Investigative. Division, and in

this connection I attach:-

(a)

A Security Service internal memorandum dated 21st

March 1967.

(b)

A Security Service surveillance report dated 14th

April, referring to a meeting between RalphytARRA

Entant

@XEARRARA (born 26 February 1918and on record with

ús as an associate of arms trafficking up to 1956),

and a U.S. citizen named Louis

KUZIN.

(c)

A Security Service note of 27th April headed OXFORD

(the code name used for the operation involving

HAWTHORNE) •

(a)

A press cutting dated 28th March 1965 which appears

to relate to the KENNEDY referred to in the report

at (c) above.

(e)

A Security Service note on a meeting with HAWTHORNE

in Frankfurt, 28th/29th April.

(1)

A note of a telephone conversation subsequent to

the meeting at (e).

(g)

A note on Sam BENTON dated May 1967, prepared as a

brief for Special Branch, Scotland

Yard in the hope

that they would feel able to intervier BENTON while

in the U.K.

In the event this interview did not take

place.

8.

The paper at (g) above refers to DinO CELLINI in Ioronto; l.*

the R.C.M.P. have been advised of this possibility.

The latest

information we have about the arms order which HAWTHORNE and his

Spai!

friends were chasing is

eventually destined for Peru, and that an Port?

American company Americas Finansaz Inc" of New York,

may be the

intermediaries.

9.

The information HAWIHORNE gave about a venezuelan freighter:

off loading arms at Cooperstone to a person named SAWYER is, we

believe entirely without foundation.

Regarding the other references

in the material referred to above to Columbia and Panama,

we propose

-to report on these ourselves to C.I.A. as soon as we are able to

complete a balanced report which will take into account all in-

formation available to us.

Encs

DocId: 12301275

Patte

360

---

## Page 4

"Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE :

11-14-2017

SEOPET

James Russell HAWTHORNE = OXFORD

The above named arrived at London Airport on Tuesday

21st March at 08.30 hours.

Following advice fron the Governor Bahamas

prior warning of his arrival vas given to the Chief Immigration Officer

who was also asked to give the Security Service and/or Special Branch the

opportunity to interview him.

HAWTHORNE was to be refused leave to land under the terms of

the entry in the Home Office Suspect Index.

3

He duly arrived and informed the Immigration Officer that he

had married (at Nassau in mid-February) a British Subject - Marion RICHARDS -

who was now staying at the Carlton Towers. In view of this new circumstance

the case was referred to the Home Office who confirmed that HAWTHORNE should

not be allowed to enter the U.K.

In the meantime we had been advised of the arrival and I went to

London Airport. I introduced myself as arranged by HSB. Bahamas and

subsequently had a Special Branch representative join me. I introduced him

as a "colleague". HAWTHORNE was not given my name.

In questioning HAWIHORNE I confined myself to two broad

objectives:-

(i) to check the story previously told by HAWTHORNE of his

visit to Geneva in December 1966.

(ii)

to establish the reason for his present visit, what his

intentions were, who his contacts more te be end finally

how the Government of tha Bahamas was involved.

The December Visit to Geneva

Regarding (1) HAWTHORNE told ne that shortly after his

arrival in London he had nade contact with:-

(a) Ralph FARRA

Enaland

(c) Vick ?

He knew that he could meet these individuals in the coffee shop of the

Hilton Hotel any afternoon and that they would organise the supply of arms.

With WESTON and Vick, in the latter's Jaguar, the party drove to Geneva

crossing the channel

at. Dover. HAWTHORNe travelled under his own name but

did not remember which port he arrived at in France nor where Switzerland

was entered - he was asleep for nost of the time.

He said that he did not

have any entries in his passport for this trip as the immigration formalities

had not required this. He did not on either the outward of invara boat

have to fill in any landing cards.

He had had to visit a passport officer

on board the ferry but was unable to give a satisfactory description of

the procedure.

7.

trip to Geneva took one day and the party arrived one

morning. After the letter of Credit was found unacceptable all returned.

/innediately.

(1)

ENCLOSURE

SEORET

DocId: 32301778 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F:

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

11-14-2017

SEORET

-2-

immediately to London.

He then went to South Wales to the home of

Miss. RICHARDS.

He kept their room on at the Carlton Towers during

the whole of his visit to the U.k.

During the time he was in London FARRA, WESTON and Vick

concluded an arms deal worth 4,000,000 dollars.

HAWTHORNE did not

know the details.

Because of HAWTHORNE's failure to give satisfactory

circunstantial detail of his visit to Geneva I am convinced that this

trip did not in fact take place.

The Current Visit to Geneva

10.

I asked HAVIHORNE if he would now produce the Letter of

Credit which was to have been handed to him at Nassau prior to his

departure.

He said that this had not in fact happened and that BENTON -

had taken this from Miami or New York" to London and was now at the

Carlton Towers where he would give it to HaWTHORNE.

I also asked

HAWTHORNE for identifying details including addresses of the three

individuals at (a) (b) and (e) above, but he said that his wife, who had

travelled in advance of hin, had these in her baggage at the Carlton

Towers.

All. that he could recall was that WESTON's flat was close to

the Cumberland Hotel.

As a result of further questioning HAWTHORNE said that he had

the present time at the behest of HICLANEY and his role

to make the necessary introduction to FARRA and the others.

service he would get 10% of the letter of Credit wnich was for

the sum of

250,000 dollars.

He did not then know at wich Bank this was to be drawn.

Having got this detail of the order from BENTON (who did not know FARRA

and the others) HAUTHORNE would make the necessary contacts at the hilton

and fron there be would then go to Geneva to draw the money, pay this

over with the örder and then collect his 10%.

HAWTHORNE did not know

what the delivery details would be but he thought that the Bahamas were

the point of unloading.

He did not know for whon the

arms were required -

be admitted that it was difficult to see that use, Premier Pinaling could

make of them although he inferred that Pindling knew of the transaction.

He thought that licIANEY's intention was to resell at a profit elsewhere

Referring to PROBINSKY, HAWTHORNE said that he was MCLANEY's

right hand man. who had been part of the investment in the Bahamas.

MCLANEY had brought Findling to power and now expected gambling concessions.

PROBINSKY had an office next to Pinaling's and the latter turned to

PROBINSKY for advice and guidance.

PROBINSKY was aware of the reason for

HANTHORNE's present trip.

PROBINSKY had visited London in February and

was now back in Nassau.

I asked HAWTHORNE what he would do if he was finally refused

leave to land (at that time

the Home Office was

still considering his case).

He had not considered alternative arrangesents but would have to consider

this with his wife.

He had already rung her at

the Carlton Towers and

she was on her way to the Airport ready to accompany him. He did not see

any point in going on to Geneva and was vague in his replies when asked

what action, if any, he would take to pursue the contact with Len WESTON

and Vick.

114.

SEORET

DocId: 32301778 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE :

11-14-2017

SECRET

-3-

Little progress was being made at this stage of the interview,

HAWTHORNE being nore interested in knowing why he was refused leave to

land and speculating as to whether it was-because of his gambling antecedent.

He admitted he was wanted by the Belgians and also that he had been sentenced

to ten years in the U.S.A, but had not served the sentence as by appeals he

had had this reduced to two years and he was still appealing.

This process

had cost him 1,000, 000 dollars and his view was that the U.S. authorities

were more interested in breaking people such as him financially than in

putting them in £a01.

I accordingly broke off the meeting. I subsequently discussed

the course of the meeting with the Speciäl Branch representative. He agreed.

to question HAWTHORNE's wife on her arrival at the Airport.

took to warn Dover to keep a look out for BENTON in case he tried to

rendezvous with HAWTHORNE on the continent. I provided BENION's particulars

as furnished by the F.B.I.

After my return to Head Office the Special Branch representative

rang me to say that HAWTHORNE and his wife were on their way to

Frankfurt

en route for Luxembourg, and also that HAWTHORNE, in order to avoid having

his wife questioned had admitted that he did have in his

possession

identifying particulars of FARRA and Co. which are as follows:-

FARRA: - Telephone No. Ambassador 7733

Extension 496 - Apartment N.

WESTON - Telephone No. Paddington 1415

Address:

34 Scourcliff Close, W.1.

Vick: - Ambassador 4350

It was also established that his wife's previous London address was Flat ElO

Sloane Avenue lansions and that she was travelling on her 1958 passport. She

was very surprised at what had happened and did not appear to be in her

husband's confidence about the reason for his present trip. HAWTHORNE bad

previously said that she had come to the U.K. to visit her parents at Easter.

17°

Before HAWTHORNE left he showed some interest in identifying

George RAFT's solicitor.

Regarding further contact HAWTHORNE was told to ring the s.B.

office at LAP who would then if necessary get in touch with me.

A subsequent enquiry made at the Carlton Iowers revealed that

BENTON had not arrived by 22nd March 1967 and was not staying there by

22nd March 1967 either under his own name or the aliases he is known to use.

2.

(3)

DocId: 32301778 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under/the John F.

Section....E.5.

Officer....

A B. Lrnott.

Copy to

Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

SECRET

A.4 SURVEILLANCE REPORT

Subject:

Nickname.

PF. No..

A.4 Ref..

BARRO!

= FARRA

.F. 745.J030113

Day. Friday.

Date.

14th prize 1967

Following, your telephone request on the after-

noon of Friday 14th April we were able to get some officers

to the Grosvenor House at 16:00 hours.

Initially our officers could not identify any-

one as FARROW from the photographs in their posession,

in the lounge of the hotel.

our officers did

discover two characters who seemed likely to be

and a certain amount was heard of the conversation to-

wards the end of their tea.

*kuzins

3.

The two men taking part in this neiting are

referred to hereafter as the 'cockney' and a man who was

subsequently identified as LouistKUZIN of 19100 West 8.

Mile Road, Southfield (Detroit) Michigan, I.S.A.

This

man is employed by Shelly Company.

KUZIN is (or-WEs) Encil

staying in room 809 of the Grosvenor House for four nights.

He was due to leave on Monday 17th.

His American pess-

port number is H 127252

_issued in New York.

Germany

4.

From 16.00 to 16.45 the 'cockney' monopolizea

the conversation and KUZIN listened apparently intently.

5.

The following snippets of conversation were

gleaned: -

The cockney

sno'e about jewelry and said "The

next time I saw it Marge was wearing it'.

b)

c)

He was next heard to talk about ben and Fran-

coise concerned in an event in Paris which

involved $26,000.

Our officer thought he heard the names Vic

and Bet mentioned.

d)

He then talked about 'scrap',

referred tô sone-

body as a "tank' and later

talked at length

about Germany.

Our officer gathered that he

had bought some goods in Germany for $20,000

and their true value was ?$150,000. He talked

of some goods which our officer interpreted

to be assemblies of some sort, probably engines

of the like for mechanical vehicles of some sort.

He mentioned

700

(4)

SECRAT

DocId: 32301778 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(44 USC 2107 Hote) .

11-11-2017/-

Section.

Officer

Copy to .

SECRET

A.4 SURVEILLANCE REPORT

- 2 -

Subject.

Nickname.

PF. No..

A.4 Ref.

Day..

Date.

/our officer

He mentioned the figure of 1650 in connection

with

these, items

and this brought a whistle of

amazement from KUZIN.

e)

He also mentioned

200 Tanks but / could

gather any other details of this.

It appeared that KUZIN is going to Germany and

part of the reason for this trip is to see

'Hoffner'

He is going to Darmstat and Manciem.

All this was overheard from the cockney, who

suggested that KUZIN should stay at the Palace

Hotel in Manhiem, it being the best.

He also mentioned the names Jack Ellis and Joe

(Levy, and our officer also thought he said tha

Ralph (pronounced Payloh) was comine to joi

them at Grosvenor House at five o'clock.

other towns in Germany were mentioned,

freguent being. Frankfurt, but our officer could

gather no details of this.

The cockney spoke

of money on several occasions, always large sums

and alrays in dollars.

h)

From 16.45 until they separated at 17:30 SUZIN

joined in the conversation but our

officer was

not in a position to hear what he

Both the men frequently admired and remarked

attractive girls who happened to pass througn the Hotel

lounge.

Even to the extent that their conversation would

cease abruptly while each concentrated on the passing of

the girl in question.

When they parted KUZIN stooped the cockney paying the

bill and told the waiter to charge it to room 809.

cockney left the hotel and got into a grey Jaguar i y i

140 D. KUZIN collected his key and disappeared upstairs.

These events were reported to you verbally by our

officers.

9.

(5)

DocId: 32301778 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:

11-14-2017

Section

Officer.

Copy to .

SECRET

A.4 SURVEILLANCE REPORT

- 3 =

Subject..

Nickname.

PF. No.

A.4 Ref.

Day.

Date.

9.

Attached is a photograph of the cockney wo

is described as follows:-

10.

British male aged 45 - 48.

Height 5'9"-10".

Medium build.

large round head, light grey

hair on

sides, bald on top. Round face,

tanned

complexion.

Broad nose, wide nostrils.

Wearing dark blue suit, blue shirt, blue tie

and black leather shoes.

Of very smart apnearance.

Smoked cigarettes and

spoke with a cockney

accent.

KUZIN is described as follows:-

American male aged 42-46.

Height. 5'7H-9".

Medium build.

Long héad,

dark brown rair,

on left hand

parted

side.

Thin face, sallow complexion.

Long thin nose which has been

broken sone time.

Wearing black mac, black mohair suit,

Black leather

shoes.

Smoked cigarettes and spoke with a North

American accent.

Harl a large gold ring. with a

ruby in it on the small finger.

18th April, 1967

WDH/ PMG

Enc.

CRADIT

DocId: 32301778 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection

ACt

DATE: 11-14-2017

2107 Hote).

SECRET

OXFORD

Ba, IS;:

englande

OXFORD re-established contact on 24th April, 1967 and Eernaw

said that he was about to return to Nassau.

Without prompting he-

admitted that he wes unable to rendezvous with Ralph FARRA in

Teneriffe but added that he had seen him when on his way back to

the U.K.. Here he was clearly lying as it is known FARRA returned

to the U.K. direct from Madrid and that since his return he has not

left the J.K. OXFORD said tuat everything was now organised and it

has been arranged to see him in Irankfurt on Friday 28th after which

it is his intention to return forthrith to Nassau.

FARRA has continued to avoid OXFORD and in the last week

there has been no direct contact batween them. OXFORD, rowever, is

reported to have spoken to FATRA's girlfriend nho was non-committal

in her replies when OXFORD enquired about progress.

reported as admitting that Len (WAINSTAIN) has been leaving his

Eralend

"phone"off the hook to avoid HAWlHUPNE and other people no were trying

to get hold of him.

3:

however, the most interesting report has been

one which relates to a business negotiation za which FARRA and Vick

aro undertaking in respect of a supply of arms to Nicaragua.

order for these is being arranged through somecne called KENNEDY.

Full details of the order are not known but included is ammunition

for 11100 anti tank recoilers".

These recoilers are reported as

being "rifles i40 or 140 A 1 or 140 1 1 C.

300 to 800 are required

and the ammunition is 106 millimetres.

1344 A 1 with fuse,

specification P.1.B. 31501, quantity 50,000 to 100,000 or more".

Accoraing to our informant this 1e = genuine

order fron

Nicaragua (as others have been in the past) and there is

user certificate" and contract.

FARRA has pointed out that the

Nicaraguans are working as intermediaries

and have cone to FARRA's

source of supply as the order cannot be net in the United States.

Reference was also made to

"four months" and the inpression given

is that this is the time mhich would ela se between placing the

order and delivery.

There was nothing in this report to indicate

that either OXFORD or the Bahamas are involved with this particular

England

reported in the

involved in a proposal to supply arms to South Africa through

Nicaragua. A copy of this press statement is being obtained and

if available in time for the current bag will be enclosed, if not

it will follow in due course.

1) April, 1967

SCORET

(7)

DocId: 32301778 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection

otel.

14 E2

FROM THE PRESS SECTION.

THE OBSERVER

28 MAR 1965

(d)

Date.....

2 8 MAR 1965

B

CLEM FURNESS: 'I can

arrange anything from a battle-

ship to a textile plant provided

it is legal?'

Shooting

holes in

UN arms

embargo

by ERIC CLARK

and ANDREW WILSON

THE United Nations has been

warned

of

an

international

private operation-centred

on

London-to carry out a multi-

million - pound

arms shipment

into South Africa.

Perfectly legal, but loaded with

political repercussions, this opera-

tion is aimed at avoiding national

embargoes and U.N. resolutions.

It illustrates the devious methods.

the Verwoerd Government has to

use to. get round the now bighly

effective U.N. embargo.

Other

international

arms

dealers, agents

and

contact-men

have been

informed that South

Africa is ready to buy

almost

- limitless supplies of small arms.

One of the principal figures able

to throw light on

this particular

operation is a self-styled

British

arms

contact

man."—57-year-

7 old Mr. Clem Furness,, who oper-

ates through the small City pre-

mises of an old-established family

business:

Mr. Furness, who in the past has

arranged arms for Dr Castro in

Cuba

and

the

late

Premier.

• Lumumba in the Congo, says the

contact: "ring"

between the

suppliers and the 'South African

Government is now on the point

of completion.

: An attempt has been made to get

the arms shipped from Belgium to

Nicaragua in Central America-

where they would have stayed for

a few

weeks

before

being. re-

exported to South Africa.

England

AEPROX 1908

Deposits in

Swiss banks'

4 The

elaborate

moves are

necessary

because of' near-total

international embargoes on arms

to

South

Africa.

Among

the

countries

which have given the

U.N. an undertaking not to export

arms which would aid the enforce-

ment of apartheid are Britain and

Belgium.

A definite order from a

third "friendly" country is neces-

sary before the arms can be moved

out of Belgium.

Another man able to add-a, piece

to the overall picture is (32 year-

old

John

Kennedy,

manager of singer Tommy Steele.

According to

Mr Kennedy

attempt was made-unsuccessfully.

-to

arrange meetings

with the

Panamanian

Ambassador

10

• Lonion,

Senor Eusebio Morales.

The arms order-said to be part

of a long-term series worth more

than £10 million" sterling —will be

paid

for.

with money already

deposited in Swiss banks.

In his third-floor othce in tha

City Mr Furness, an accountant,

Said: " As for me, l'am not doing

—and I would never do anything

that is illegal or which I thought

was morally wrong.

The South

Africans.

are out

shopping.

am

solely a contact-a link—in

the arms business. I can arrange

anything from a battleship to

textile plant. provided. i is legal.a

Two bare

rooms

Mr Furness has occupied £6-a-

week furnished accommodation in

Selborne

Road,

Hove,

Sussex,

since October last year.

He is

known by neighbours as an elec-

trical businessman..

His London

office, where we interviewed him,

consists of two bare, almost un-

furnished

rooms in

Row.

Devonshire

They are listed as the

London

promises of Lewis and

Hall (Electrical) Ltd., a 32-year-

old-firm of electrical contractors

with

registered

offices in

Street,

Birmingham, 14.

High

Present at the interview was his

aide.' a Mr

Smith, who

said:

Lewis and Hall are nothing to

jdo with this side of the business."

Mr Furness, a white-haired, be-

pectacled

Yorkshireman, talked

of his part in the international

JOHN KENNEDY: " If any-

one did try to

ship

arms to

Nicaragua he

would

have

American gunboats breathing

'down his neck.'

here and wanted to order some

arms I would want.to know where

they were for.

If it was a revolu-

tion l'd want to be sure that it

wasn't for this country or for any-

one against its interest.

I am un-

usual in this respect.

. Lots of them

are

only

interested in the end

profit.'"

He said he will not deal with

the Middle East " I don't want to

be the man to put the spark in

the powder-keg.

Would

he

arrange

deals:

South Afriça? " South Africa will

get arms.

To supply arms from a country

which had not embargoed South

Africa

would not

be illegal, he

said, and added: " I would never

do anything that was illegal.

The

South Africans need arms for their

defence, not for aggression.

" I'm not a man who would per-

sonally buy or hold any arms.

If

you came in now and offered me

them for fiye bob! wouldn't touch

them.

DocId: 32301778 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy. Assassination Recorus

later.

FROM THE PRESS SECTION.

THE OBSERVER

2 8 MAR 1965

Date.

Business

builder

Mr Furness and Mr Kennedy,

head of John Kennedy and Co.,

Ltd., a public relations firm in

Knightsbridge, met early this year

at a London hotel.

Mr Kennedy, the man

launched

Tommy

Steele,

, who

was

brought up in New Zealand.

He

came to Britain in 1950. " practi-

cally penniless." By 1960,

after

finding Steele, he was admitting to

owning investments totalling be-

tween £30,000 and £40,000.

Mr Kennedy, who was once de-

scribed as a man who takes over

ailing businesses;

builds them up

and sells out at the peak, is inter-

ested in the Panama Free Zone as

part of his public relations busi-

He knows Central America.

" I had been mentioned to Fur-

ness because it was known that I

knew

the

Somoza

family

in

Nicaragua," he said.

"That was

the country Furness was inter-

ested in.

The Somozas, who include a

former President; Control all the

essential

services

Nicaragua,

either directly or through

the

- bands of their nominees:

Kennedy

said

that ! he

and

Furness talked of a huge stock-

pile fourms, frica banted giume

that South Africa wanted.

Belgians were willing to release

them from the country provided

they had an order from a Govern-

ment."

Mr Kennedy went on: " If any-

one

did try, to

ship arris

to

Nicaragua he would have Ameri-

can gunboats breathing down his

neck.

It just isn't possible.

"The idea that arms could be

ordered by Nicaragua, imported

into the country and after three

weeks or so when everything had

been settled-shipped

to

South

Africa, just isn't practical."

Request for

a meeting

Mr Kennedy also said that he

now knew that anyone helping

ship arms to South Africa would

be

"doing something the,

British

Government is against."

He said he had been asked to

arrange a

meeting

Morales,

with Senor

54, the man

who has

been Panamanian Ambassador in

Britain

since

last

year.

wouldn't arrange it," he added.

South Africa-through Parlia-

mentary

statements

and

Press

reports—has claimed in

recent

months that the country' is self-

sufficient in the production of

† small arms and ammunition.

The

arms are produced in South Africa

the South African mint, the

Defence Ordnance factories and

three factories set up by the Afri-

can

Explosive

and

Chemical

Industries Ltd

But despite South Africa's own

output, Dr

Verwoerd's

Govern-

ment is known to have sought

substantial purchases

of

arms

ranging from pistols to aircraft

from

European countries.

A U.N. Security Council resolu-

tion of August 7, 1963, called

upon "all States to cease forth-

with the sale and shipment of

arms,

ammunition

of all

types

and military vehicles

to South

Africa."

That resolution was

followed by another on December:

4 that year calling for an end to

the sale and shipment of equip-

ment

and

materials

for arms

manufacture and maintenance.

Racial policy

condemned

Most U.N. members agreed.

The Belgian Government

said:

"The'

*Belgium

Government,'

which on numerous occasions has

condemned the racial policy of

the Government of the Republic

•of South Africa, has decided in

accordance with this attitude to

give effect to paragraphS of the.

Security

Council

resolution

i December 4, 1963, by ceasing the

sale of equipment and materials.

for the manufacture and mainten-:

ance of arms and ammunition in

South Africa."

A Belgian Government spokes-

man said in Brussels last week that

if South

Africa tried to

order

arms from Belgium it would be

refused.

In 1963 Belgium

recorded the

official export of about £1,100.000

worth of

arms and ammunition

to South Africa.

For the first 10

months of last year the amount

was down to about £l4,000.

(9)

DocId: 32301778 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE:

11-14-2017

SECRET

972042

Intervier it Iransfurte

250k-

2267 and eubseruent.

OXFOND was tenn in the lounge of the Fruncurterhod Hotel

on Friday 20ch april.

do told so that he had pot,

an faot, rung the

Zahasan the night before ao he acid he would be doingo.:

gathered that ho canise eriorá to colophase.

20

I saked uXboRD to tell ne whos he had boen doing alnoe the

intervier at bondon Airport.

Weing dotnals provided by the hotel of the

various telechope calls no had rado to arsiat has couory, le told re

that

no had toù gone to Teneriate to seet kalga flad as sriginally intended

becure the fusds for the journoy arrivod too late.

be had, however,

spoken to ruli on the telephone both in Zonoraffe and in London. le

also said that bo hau sodo errangeseato through callo, maneder of the

Colong Club in London, for doz LANTON tO eat DinO CELLINI in Lisbon end

tiere handover che Letter of Credit in respect of the aras for the

Babanaze

PAARA subsequently net CellINI on or about the leth and cor-

aluded arrangerents for toe purchase of 1,000 side ama st fifty-five

dollars each, 1,000 riflea at 125 dollare each and a nillion rounds of

amunition delivered.

OxxOlD having egoken to Caulia on Jach April

It was arranged that samrod would seet ralla on about the 17th or 16th

1n London, canno having lesred tila iron Panda maas ho spoko to han

on the telephone ca the 17th, (see consent belor).

the aris moro to be

offloadod at Cooperatorn end shigeent in beine arranced by Vick an

PARna drea a post outadde the ur.

It has not boon ponrible to identify Corporatona and when I

spoke to Orong again un 8ch lay ho told so Chen that OscIll 1a Toronto

had confined on 6th Ray: 1067 Cat Cooperaton was the point of delitory

and that the contaos fiore zas a person by the care ct sATad, zo

Individund who was intereated in boats.

¿ askod bon tôe ama voro to be

delivered and orroro ardl that they sore to to trussported in a jerosiola

rosghter shich cravelied tetzeen she Woke and Venasela and this muula

dischar o the arna in the vicirdty of Coogerateun

Re thought dellvery

was to tana place in the saxt tao nooka

No did sos inor the naze of tre

Preichter although to had heard it, ho said that this ana a single rather

thas a doublo burroiled sane.

exroaD'a telephoro roceipta, a list of bich ars atticiod as

an Aprisa, una retaired in london and diese indiaated shas he dia

In faot nado she contacts claimed except store DEMIus is cencerned.

Treso la no roser of any telagaono cadi to buston, the lattor's

nara being significantly absent fron the reacts shion havo toon

provided by lodepondent sources.

in partioilar there la reliabie

intorcatios that asToN was not sentiared nor discussed by 0x302D

an the course of the conversation he lad vita PARLA da 176h April,

nor ma there anythine in thia discinaton to superas that an area

deal had recontly bon coroluded botrara the tro.

LaNth, horerer,

arrived at london Irport on the 7th May and bus cald that he wili

be staying as the filtea for aboit four daya before goine on to

Vesasuola, He sald ho was in Lendon an Durinoss.

casperators 11 not Identifiable and 18 nas pat to eXtino that

do tight be Cooklara Iona or Cornianters.

Ha did not kaor slab

mas the sore llbely but said thas the nare had bord civen by as

Englishaan 1a which cao Cockdura fom say to the bestor bet,

although 1t sente nora likaly that this la a figzont di Oxono's

(10) SECRET

/DaDO CALLINI..:..

DocId: 32301778 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 05C

DATE: 11-14-2017

2107 Hotel.

SSURE U

Dano CRL-IVA 18 en merican cantles sho naa deported fou

tre Uráted Kingdon a for sects ago.

According to onaeld he is

non staying at thie

"andra" hotel do toroato,

noure sent on to say that the urderzon this pocaslur raa fo

ho ingo arount an borero and that to gent 1o0 POLLAR is Coneva c

Ith april tho confired that the ourrent intser of Crodit cos gupdo

IronD did not inca ahich banka sere nor invoivede

SwiTz.

5.

Contrary to mos carcan had told no earlier duranz a telentura

convorsation he nur said tbat he had not seon JA2a1 zince his last vinit

to Loudon in Doco ber 1966.

he had, horever, apoken to haron the

telonione end had rot Vio: (now identified as Cyril Vetor Laz) en)Germani

11th sprit in Frankfun.

Vicie waa socompanded on this occasion by

Fenkinara lo and

WATRFINLD and his portner nore trying to raise £20,000 in crah

Englanio

Insedlitaly ard 280,000 in the nose ten meks in order to koop en

insuranca company under their control.

They

asked OXFORD 18 he could

assist in disposing of "hot" Jonellery to the volue oê 1250,000-

6.

By this tino it man clear that extra mug unable or unilling

to voluntarily amplity the intoration he hod pivos. I, theretore, put

it to his that there ma littls trush in bis atory and otating that other

sources of inforcation bad ralled to confira any el too facto he use

gating.

He rosieted this auscoition.

I, therefore, went on so eay that

I collored that ba na, in foot, mixed up in anothor oras deal mich did

not involve tha Bahonse but 108901d Contral daerican countrios.

He deriod

this.

I, therefore, put to hia vardous narma of esaceinton of viok and

nuisa and asked if he knew tho they sore. Those nuned dich he rgoograced

nero as Solidas t

BAG (an aarosinte of VAlLA's) 01009 had not HAc wier in Lonien

but did not knew hia nurnare nor tbat his scoupation was. he had

hed supper with Mic and otbor friends of VAlA.

LOU HELLE

(An AnoriGIn associato ef Yok"s).

A1d not adait tha fuil extent of hia knesledge of

Rustin but later ras nore forthessing

He had set MAils da

Loidon in Deceaber.

wen was lavolred with fuRaA and viex in

aTAnia, = lone export licence for coola to the value of four

a14110z dollars

to so exported to teherun which was bedog handied

through a banis du turich, In this oonrection Tick visited zurich

ANNIBAL A NOTE (a corpady of interoid to ZAIRA and others).

OXFORD said that this coasany had extensivo

candling interesta.

Roman haiRed, one of the partrera, was

brotcer of not hanDiN cod CRARD days do set these yeople in the

Vor, 1o jecentora. The soupany nas intercated in gasolirs ao= 11

JANEDE (en sa:colate of Vies and PARIS 10 Brussels and apparently

cLoseLy Involved in arcangia, the augaly and delltory

of noos

probably to Mioarague. A geraon called John KnuDY mas reseatod in

the "oberor" sona too jeans ago as denying that ama sere bolto

Brippod to centrel africa via Ricaragua). exrot had heard this

sara and thought 15 could have boen the person saca largariato ana

No partner vero duo to aced 10 Aricaola after leaving Erankaur!.

SECRET

DocId: 32301778 Page 14

---

## Page 15

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

-3-

7.

At ebout this stage of the procodings OXrORD started

overlook or forgot his earlier dendels and began talling about the

Jerger ana transaction for Central Aerica.

Englane

Dazda (e contact of Tiok's.

sas also boen reported to be the oonor of a car driver on

¿ Darla mar orT, Abenarle ctrest BATS,

one occasion by vick).

oxY-lo sald ho presuned David nes baria

Sian and adentified his ortice. He said that dial had coco to

de honemas with forman and LenaciTEN and PAllA in Moveabe

ast. Star was in the contructine business and provided th

forking finance for the arao dnal.

"front-san* and

had astended she acoting at kolynos Villa in Irseport beforo

ecing on to the United

OXFORD had subsequently seen

CHAT in London at his offioe hen he comploted a

prenation rata his or beneat of sureshe called inter let Enoland.

ASIC (an asucciate of FuRli's and Vick's). It is unlikaly that

CReaD did in fact identity the real Aise but instead spoke

of sa Med ronali, a late citizen aged about f1*5y-iva woo tas

prepared to tarance erg but not reabling transactions.

NITORLIBOI

had his om jot aircraft and froquently viaited London fros

England

He nas in the Bahases at the saro tiwo as SHAS and others

but OxenD was unable to say whether bo knew of the meeting at

Prespurt.

EGULAR (a Goman associnte of Wick and KUZING).

oxFonD identified

•HOPENER es a parson hos Vick cano to soo 17 Mannhuis about

the beginning

of April.

Mortits was engagod in the urna business but

CxPoRo had not det his.

I roverted to the subjest of ams for tho saharaa and ayload

exPORD hor thas business began.

Ho told-ce Shat the Firot contact had

taken place about two months befure tha Subaras election.

PROBINORT had done to laesan end had taken FINDING to MoLICY"o houae

At the reeting chich took place to consider how finelino

could be holped to porer 3-N30N suggested tuat toney should to ralaod.

to obtain are.

It nes understosd that it suedecaful at the poila

PIRalING would subsequently muse aparop. late conoessicas to lclaNet.

I asked OVuld hor he bad eot in toucà vita the Bahanas pollce

sted he asid that iS8 had dise to his.

I asked hon this had bert arranced

and OXFORD sald that men he mes la freeport ho panted a telochore joatailed

1n a hulIz and had cot co to the brothor of the linister of Telecomunicationo,

the reault of shich ma that his tolophone mas suppliod intediatoly Ba Is.

oxpany then went aod tannkad the Minister, RoySCLOHOD, ard the conversation

turned to leinEr, orrono indicating that lollidy ana roing to back

soLoser's policioal opponente.

goreVoN asted hia if he rould be prepared

to cose to torna vita the Baharian Gorensent, DIZURD agreed provided

30L030N paid tis experts.

SOLOtor then arranged for 508 to see OXPORD

which be did it Frespurt.

VOLOROn oned oXEuRo 6,000 dollars.

nd a -inástorial Collense, Sir starford

TralD then told te that solongs these conversardang done

AlDE, nanted to tocover cortain.

apere which had teen stolen frea Slids' aafe and taren to the United Ba IS

flatos: To papers pava details of financial transactiona Involring

paprents iron the Sahanaa (1oe. the Casinos) to vardous Inuividuals in

tho volted states xP0Ro mas employed to run down and recurer thero

/ pape

(12 SECRET

DocId: 32301778 Page 15

---

## Page 16

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

papera 1n order to preventthen falling into PinDLINd's handi. Fo aid

in fact manare to obtain sona of thes and there tore nor lodged in

Philadel bia in in attornoy'o offioe, 017022 had aberined the papera

by persundino, tro frienda co rcb a caro

na serior lavolted in aa

his had boen andited in the Undted states, hia are nos Avery Min

sano of the papera baú alas coco into die posmension of les okAl

tho had merced for 20r0se

shore were three parcels of repera in alivelo

ard it may these which core the basia of the artioles in the Vall

street jourcade

11a

ermino then cold'so e Isttla soro about his inot visit so

London.

¿coordirg to his ho una supposed to tale an ezgort licenca

the Joh, for the export of aras and lert kero on 20ch Deceuber

and firut tone so derico city in arier to obtain a divoree. Esving

obtained thia in aine days, he vent to columble lacedatoly afternardo

end also visitod Fanaaro

das purpose was to find out shother urns could

bo sold in that arose

He also canted to know who he mould bo dealing

wáth 1f he tock out the expurt Iscorce Has conclusions were tadt

Cuntanade, Nicaragua and a croup in Braril vero all potential pirchanera

and he subrequently paased this laforatica on to Victe

30 262332 E137

ho vas a josellor sho 1a a very cloco friond of the Cresident, has name

was Jinricos GIAN shose company ans Jugeria lena and whose somellery

store in fanna sas right sorora fron the Panaza Milton shere OXFURD.

nas staringo

He cone to en arrangerent to deal through RAGGing and

then sont on to ten Andrea thore he visited another jereller whose baze

Fast of Nicaragua).

(Sar Andres 1a the Colunbien Asiand Treoport. Lylas

BaAzLea had a hale interent in an enorald sine in

Colusbia ard asiod extono to taio sona eneralda to the lichard jereilery

store in tiszto Fron dais Anuras ONS-RO sout Ca,Jangles and 4608 00 80

Baseavo

OI?oRo continued to inatal that this nos a separate transactica

to tro sabanas duatress, the value 1a this care being four sillion doller».

Contest

Independent sources indicate thas OXIURDe arcodiatos aro

In frot currectly esperal in a lucizese trunsaction chich Is

vithin ha loiterol the don to ahay aras to Contrad icerios, tha

the purchaso certiricate to do provided by the Nicoraguan Govoment.

After sTival is contral Aperion 16 cecna likaly that the arna

«111 then bo abippo: elzenhero.

oxFold, honover, oaly rears

so to involved in tha earlier portoof tho transaosion tast la to

say to cat the gooda to Central Aceries.

In the courso of bus conversation ONIORD referred to tatia

and their interont in parblingo. He said that tho coutzot on the

Continent with shen ho coud so: in touch 1i ho ranted to obtain raffa

assistares as a moron called "fatsteak" no van butch and lIved ID

sasterdan, Anither varia contage sua fareour BLAD BUR NoLde

oxpuan then sold that ho had been involyed in an/operatica

to put mus to sues sbout san yeara ago.

naso had coot salared trou

son orleana prior so mien they had bean storod as likecoull'a La,

nother'a furs which 1a1 adar len Crleans. michael.

15.

I assed exroao may ho no luncer had his retion tiekes to

sasodu, ho caid that he had to ouch this 1a men adriaad so to to

ParIA.

Re

also had to finance tis sire's vinit to tro d.to shero

had Just buen but could enly bring 235 base vin her.

( 13)

SECOST

126.

DocId: 32301778 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

16.

Ho identified & photograph I shored Min of Lin MAINSTAIN

as being Len RaGnoN.

1%.

buring our conversation OXFORD continually roturned to the

subjest of. as to hon ho sould get book into the united tingdon and

entioned that 18 had been sugsoated to him be could alrayo co in

through the Lack dour.

After gone procoin; he told so this are to

do to Iraland and froa thora to tho Islo ot Man miere ba maa to ask

for "o'Sullivan" tho could do shat was necessary.

18.

I adviced OXPEND not to attonpt this.

He told no that his

wife nas contesplating writing to in Have azucaling againo: hie exclusion.

OXFORD asked se if 1 koen why he was not alloned into the united Kingdon,

I sopliod that 1 us not incomed of the reason for the departentlo

decizion but I ascuned thero ms done conneotion with exron's guabling

antecedents and his oriminal rocord in to Unitod Statos and on tre

Continent.

2ox. 3967

SECRET

(14)

DocId: 32301778 Page 17

---

## Page 18

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Annex

OXFORD

Dotails of Telephone Calls made by him and for which ho provided

Hotel chits from the Frankfurterilof Hotel, Frankfurt during Aoril

1967

Date

1o. April 3rä

2o April 4th

3o April 4th

4o. April 4th

5. April 5th

6a April Eth

7o April 3th

8. April IIth

9. April 12th

10. April 12th

11! - April 22th

12. April 12th

13. April 13th

Iro April I4th

15.. April 14th

16. April Ith

17. April 14th

18. April 14th

19.

April 15th

20.

April 17th

21. April 17th

22.

April 17th

23°

April l8th

240

April 19th

25. April 21st :

26. April 24th

WATEIPIELD - (East Knoyes 400)

LOU FOLLAR - Geneva L.

WHI. 1212

FARRA - Teneriffe

FARRA - Teneriffe

FARRA - Tereriffe

PARRA - Teneriffe

WATFRFIELD - (East Knoyes 400)

Colony Club (SALKIR) - London

Colony Clus (SILKIN) - London

xx Dine CELLINI - Madrid

PARRA - Teneriffe

Dino CELLINI - Lisbon

Dino CELLINI - Hadrid

Colony Club - London

Colony Club - London

Dino CELLINI - lisbon

DinO CELLINI - Estorio

Dino CELLINI - Estarlo

Colony Club - London

FARRA - Teneriffo

TARRA - London

FARRA • Tereriffe

PARRA - London

FARRA - London

WET. 1212

(15) SECRE

Cost. D-Be

18.20

7.20

13-50

32.70

4.20

31.00

31.45

8.40

6.60

11.40

4.70

33.00

5.50

4.60

7.20

9.50

4. 60

47.50

36.80

13.50

8.20

26.40

8.40

6.00

20.10

8.40

DocId: 32301778 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Released under the John F

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

- -DATE:

11-14-2017

SECRET

(9)

San BenTon

England

Samuel

L BANTON O FINK DOM PINKELAAN

Born!

4th July 1920, Poland.

U.S. Citizen Passport No.: C.679720

Add.:

2448 S.W.17 Street, 31am1,

Florida.

ParT

Sgt. Gibb at london Airport reported that the above had

arrived at about If.00 on Sunday 7th May fron Rome on Flight BE: 255.

BENTON had been searched by Customs but nothing of interest was revealed.

He said that he was here for about four days on business and thereafter

he was going to Venezuela. He would be staying at the Hilton Hotel

during his visit. He was carrying one suitcase, was about six feet

two inches wore sunglasses, had & tanned complexion and was wearing a

"shocking" orange polo neck sweater.

BENTON was previous ly mentioned in Special Branch report of

2lst March 1957 reference 588/UNREG/555a-30a and 571/66/96-46a as the

person with whom James Russell HAWTHORNE was going to rendevous at the

Carlton Towers Hotel in furtherance of the alleged illegal supply of arms

to the Bahamas.

HAWTHORNE has since been reported to say that he has had

further contact with BENION and that he had arranged a neeting between

BENTON and Dino CELLINI in Lisbon in the early part of April.

believed to be the person who was formerly connected with the Colony Club

and who was deported from the U.K. as a result of his gambling interests.

According to information received fron Special Branch Bahamas, BENION has

been declared a prohibited immigrant by the Bahamas Government because of

fraudulent practices in which he was engaged relating to share certificates.

He is described as an associate of criminals and racketeers in the U.s.A.

and-haarpre-Castro connections with gambling interests in Havana.

1963 he was concerned in the collection of a large arms and explosives

dump which was discovered in New Orleans. It was believed that these arms

had been stored for use by anti-Castro forces. In 1965 he was charged

in the U.S.A, for the transportation of stolen property (share certificates)

across State Lines but was found not guilty.

BENTON has been described as a thoroughly undesirable person

who will engage in extra-legal activity if the financial reward is high

40

In December 1965 the Bahamas police were informed that a

group of American citizaas led by Michael Mclaney and including David

-PROBINSKY, DUKe JORDAN, William HANLEY, Samuel BENTON, James HAWMORE,

ring/SPIRO, BESSHANGER and ?Vinn had

agreed to raise finance and give

assistance to what was then the opposition party (the Progressive Liberl

Party led by Pindling) but which is now the Government.

In exchange this

group expected gambling concessions.

The assistance which took the form

of electoral help and also a supply of small arms in case there was a

defeat at the polls.

According to HAYTHORNE the first attempt to by

these arms fell through when a Letter of Credit for 250,000 dollars as

refused by a Swiss bank.

A second attempt is now being made and HAWTHORNE

has said that the present Letter of Credit had been honoured having been

brought to Europe by BENION at the end of March.

Apparently HAVINORNE

was supposed to renderous with RENION at the Carlton Towers but failed to

do so when he was refused entry to the U.K. According to HAWIHORNE it was

/BENION.

(b)SEORET

DocId: 32301778

Page 19

---

## Page 20

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 05C 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

07.

SECRET

-2-

BENTON who nade the first suggestion at a meeting in Miami attended by

Pindling that arms should be imported to the Bahanas.

5.

The arms involved are said by HAWTHORNE to be 1,000

side arms,

1,000 rifles and a nillion rounds of amunition. So far there has been

no independent confirmation that such a plot exasts..

It has, however,

been learned that HAWTHORNE and others are concerned in a much larzer

arrangement for the supply of arms to the Value of four million dollars

to be shipped from the Continent to somewhere in Central American and

from there to a third unspecified country, not the Bahamas.

There is a possibility that BENTON is also involved in this

larger transaction.

It is equally possible that the smaller one does

exist and never has done sp.

May, 1967

DocId: 32301778 Page 20

---

