# docid-32291279

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10207-10055

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-29-654

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/22/1963

2

CIP, GAMBLING, RACK AND SUBV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32291279 Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-19-56)

36

FBI

Date:

4/22/63

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (92-515)

SUBJECT:

CRIMINAL INIELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

PCI, advised that PETE

SARNQEE. formerly of Chicago,

Ill., is now operating the

Lounge at the Golden Nugget Motel, Dade Co., Ela., where

JOSEPH FISCHETTI (Miami File 92-99) is now hanging out.

MM 788-C reportedthat IRNIX

BRENNER gave a financial

accounting to HYMAN MARTIN (Miami File 92-218) on various

bolita operators, leaving the impression that BRENNER is

handling MARTIN's interest with the various bolita operators.

This source further related that HAROL

FISHMAN

7/z.

(Miami File 166-43) plans to leave Miami and that HYMAN MÄRTIN

contemplates BRENNER will take FISHMAN's place. According tob.,

this informant, FISHMAN, now 62 years of age, wants to secure, 190/

employment where he can thereafter collect Social Security.

FISHMAN had in mind securing employment with MILTON JAFFEE

until his 65th birthday.

J. LESTER HOLT, (NA), Chief of Police, Fort

auderdale, fla:, advised he received information that EMERSON

ALLSWORTH.

Florida State Representative from Broward County

and former Broward County Solicitor, would be campaign manager

63-9-24-65}

Bureau (AM)

REG 36

• Miami

RFF: mgw

13 APR 24 1963

(53 Wick

OTHER 4

Approved:

53 APR 2 9 1963

Special Agent nehaige

Sent

M Per

"NW 45760 DocId: 32291279 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-515

in the southern part of the state for HAYDE BURNS...

current Mayor of Jacksonville, Fla. who will be a guber-

natorial candidate for the State of Fla. In the same

connection he said, he heard that, if elected, BURNS plans

to appoint WALTEB

Miami, Florida,

as State Beverage

"Director.

of HYMAN MARTIN.

On 4/20/63, Agents of Internal Revenue, Miami,

conducted some raids and arrested 20 persons for bookmaking

employees, including DONALD O. PINDER, a cousin of HOWARD G.

PINDER, another widely known bolita

They also raided

JAMES C. CHRISTIAN's "counting house" and arrested CHRISTIAN

and six of his employees.

They also arrested AL DEUTSCH and

SOL EDER (Miami File 165-208) for bookmaking at the Cadillac

Hotel, Miami Beach, as well as HARRY SHERMAN and CHICKIE

GRECO

for bookmaking near Benson's Drug Store, Miami Beach.

MM 807-C advised that FRANK DIOGUARDI (Miami File

92-405) operator of the Casa Maria Restaurant and Angelo's

Restaurant, both in Dade County, has been talking about start-

ing a telephone answering service in the upstairs portion of

the Casa Maria Restaurant in a month or six weeks.

-2-

NW 45760 DocId: 32291279 Page 3

---

