# docid-32326513

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90055-10105

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-76826-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/20/1960

2

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

ANTONIO DE VARONA

CLIP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW.:

06/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

AT

v9.1

HH 54463

DocId: 32326513

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

N 205-40577 24

JOHN DAVID GRIFFIN, Public Relations

man associated with Dr. CARLOS MARQUEZ STERLING,

head of the Movimento del Pueblo Libre (MPL), advised on

6/17/60, that in discussion with MARQUEZ STERLING, MARQUET

had stated that TONY VARONA has been unsuccessful

in bringing

the various Cuban exile groups together because of a state-

ment attributed to VARONA.

GRIFFIN sald that the statement

alleged to have been made by VARONA was to the effect that

the Cuban exiles would take care of the present Cuban

Covernment without the assistance of the United Stated or

Russia.

GRIFFIN stated that it was also reported to him

by MARQUDA STERLINA that AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO bad

agreed with the statement of VARONA,

GRIFFIN advised that

most of the Cubans in exile do not

like this statement

attributed to VARONA.

NY 2865-PSI on 6/10/60, had stated that

DI. ANTONIO VARONA bad made a public statement whereby

said that should he be successful in getting into

power in Cuba, he would grant a general amnesty to all con-

nected with the government formed 1/7/59.

The intormant

stated that many Cuban exiles did not like this statement

which was alleged to have been published in Mland, Plorida.

The informant stated that Dr. JORGE BARROSO, former head of

the sugar Institute, had gone to Miami to confer with VARONA

regarding this statement alleged to have been made by VARONA.

The above is being submitted for the in-

formation of the Bureau and Miami.

NW 54463 DooId: 32326513 Page 2

---

