# docid-32335501

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER

124-90124-10059

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-159111-8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

05/11/1967

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III

RALPH SERANNO

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1B; 1C; 4

Redact

09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32335501 Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-11-2017

SE

E T

RE: RALPH LAURO SERRANO

SECRET

On February 7, 1967, MM T-3, a Haitian citizen

residing in the Miami area, who is well acquainted with

Haitian personalities, identified a photograph of RALPH

SERiANO aS thay Of an

individual known to him as RALPHywho

visited EUGENE/MAXIMILIEN, Haitian Consul in Miami, several C

times in the latter part of 1966* RALPH acted and

like a hoodlum and in the opinion of the source had a criminal

background.

(6)

The tich terald of Febru Politico, 7, contalmed

Priest

Charged with Haitian Plot."

This article stated

that seven individuals were indicted by a

Hait?

Federal Grand Jury at Miami, Florida, on February

27, 1967, charged with conspiring to

launch an

invasion

of haiti Irom the florida Keys Among

those Indicted was MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WER BELL,

Ill, age

Georgia. "

48; a U.S. Citizen, Powder Springs,

On April 11, 1967, Mrs. HELEN WANICK, OffiCe of

the U. S. Attorney, Southern District of Florida,

Miami, Florida,

advised that on March 17, 1967,

the charges against WER BELL were dropped by the

U. S. Attorney's office due to lack of sufficient

evidence against him.

The records of the Identification Division of the

FBI contain a record relating to RALPH SERRANO under FBI No.

1 013 752. This record reflects that on October 15, 1964,

RALPH LAURO SERRANO, #A3 386 567, was arrested by the

Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), New York, New

York, for deportation proceedings.

indicated as "deported from NYC to Santo Domingo via PAA

Flt 231 on 1-9-65."

- 2

T

SECRET

DocId: 32335501 Page 2

---

