# docid-32317194

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/16/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10352-10001

RECORD SERIES: CG

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-350-D-266, 454

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

CG

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

FRANK SINATRA, ELSUR LOGS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: 2 LOGS DATED 10/20/60, 11/27/61, INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

DocId: 32317194

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy AssasSination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej

DATE: 11-14-2017

4

H:

He says what in the holl is pEtE doing with the guy?

• I know

want to clear it first, 'cause, Jesus

Christ, you know, the roof caves in and he

at everybody.

wantad me to

put ..

NOW, I SHOUINA tOl& CURLEY. got mad

CURLEY

•..

I dian't want to put the kid in there.

7 7 7 @ 7 n

and

Did I do right?

Thats what I want to tell HUMP.

I could

put the kid

in there, but I think its wrong to put the kid in there

and make

him an artist. I could put him on the payroll

tomorrow. Let him work thore.

F:

H:

well, maybe its the experienco he wants.

Woll alright, then I'll do it. I just thought tho kid

was botter off..

Much later.

HENRy goes out into other room.

Several peoplo

come into inner room and soveral in outer room.

All apparently

drinking and joking.

A voice is heard to gay:

Hey HENRY!

Honry anweers from outer room and thon voico says:

mo STEVIE has got 'om in tights now too!

No, in nightgowns, in little nightgowns! (this then idents

• In in n

Ho tolls

HENRy anuswors:

HENRY aS HENRY SUSK.

Tura Satana, PCI, has advisod

• that SUSK

has an interesty in The Hucksters

key club. This club is

managod by STEVIE DE KOSTA and this weok bogan foaturing

their waitress in shorty night gowns to compote with the Gast

light and the Playbody key clubs.)

FERRARO makes a phone call and

says: Are

you gonna stay there?

OK, I'll stop by: OK.

see you.

UNK

SCOTT

Later

far yells:

como on in, ScOttY, lots talk a while.

SCOTT:

You don't want to fix me up with a broad, what are you

gonna do for me?

You don't

want me to go

to a joint?

?*:

I wish I had a broad to fix you up with.

S:

Aren't you bumin' around

any more?

onco in a while. My wife and I went back. The other

night

0. 0 . .

score,

I

didnt do nothini.

... I had a broad, I didn't

S:

P.1.

(gots

a big laugh out of this)

ve then tolls scort that ANdRa's!

wesloy Memorial, sorves best food in town.

ANDRÉS CLUB, 216 E. Superiss, Chea

DocId: 32317194 Page 2

---

