# docid-32171185

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/14/20

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10173-10004

HQ

105-82555-2235

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

DOS

AMEMBASSY MX

SECRETARY OF STATE

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/28/1963

4

Released under the John

• Kennedy

assassination Record=

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53244 Date:

06-12-2017

LIAISON WITH US EMBASSY IN MX

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

02/01/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA AND DOS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 53244

DocId: 32171185

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-

DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY OF STATE

WASHINGTON

Belmont

Mohr

Mi. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

AMr: DeLeatr

Mr. Evans

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rose

"M.. Sult

MY

Taver

W" Trotter

Tele. Room

-a limes

Miss

6457

DECLASSIFLED BY 9003 RAN/EA

ON 4-30-92

PER StATE LEttER did. 2-21-84

statt ingo vocon

MEMORANDUM FO

February 8, 1964.

C3d:d

Director,

Federal Bureau of Investigation.

I am attaching copies of telegrams exchanged in the

Department's Roger Channel with the Embassy in Mexico City :

which bear on the Oswald case and which the Department is

obligated to make available to the Warren Commission.

Because of the sensitivity of some of the material in this

exchange (see, for example, paragraph 6 in Embassy's tele-.

gram 1201 of November 28, 1963), we will seek an understanding:

with the Commission that there be an opportunity to review any

report which might be based on such material and which the:

Comission may wish to make public.

Since these messages

contain information that may have been developed by your

representatives in Mexico City, I would appreciate receiving

your concurrence in our turning these messages over to the

Warren Commission for study.

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

• Alexis Johnsor

Watch ond! Leave t

ENCLOSERE ATTACHOD

MAR

7.18

EXP PR

FEB FA

_21-10383

HH

53244

DocId: 32171185

Page 2

---

## Page 3

INCOMING TELEGRAM

Department of State

_SECRET

339

Action

NRD

Info

SMIR

ZZ RUENCR

DE RUESMO 030. 28/18202

Z 281815Z ZEA

FM AMEM BASSY MEXICO CITY

TO SECSTATE

WASADO

STATE GRNC

BI

SECRET

4/30/98 в, 2803/20X/5/

Declassity

PER StA

EFER dId 2-3184

# 6454

006

per

ве прод/93

SENT SECSTATE

1201

FLASH

ROGER CHANNEL

FOR SECRETARY RUSK AND ALEXIS JOHNSON

MANY THINKS FOR YOUR TELEGRAM 961. PERHAPS I SHOULD DESCRIBE

BRIEFLY THE BACKGROUND FOR MY RECOMMENDATIONS ON THE OSWALD

CASE.

IN READING OSWALD"S RATHER COMPLETE DOSSIER I GOT AN

IMPRESSION OF A TRUCULENT, AGGRESSIVE, DEMANDING PERSON, TOO LAZY

TO STICK LONG WITH EITHER

SCHOOL OR JOB, WHO WAS IN REBELLION

AGAINST SOCIETY AND WHO KAD IN CONSEQUENCE. TURNED TO MARX AND LENIN®

HE HAD LITTLE MONEY, THE OBLIGATION TO SUPPORT A WIFE AND CHILE AND

AMBITION. I DID NOT

GET AN IMPRESSION OF A MAN WHO WOULD KILL A

PERSON HE HAD NEVER MET FOR A CAUSE, WITHOUT OFFERS FROM THE APPARTUS

TO WHICH HE APPARENTLY BELONGED WHEN THERE WAS NOTHING IN IT FOR.

HIM• FROM THE BEGINNING I THREREFOR HAD A FEELING--SUBJECTIVE AND

UNPROVEN TO BE SURE-- THAT EITHER IN MEXICO OR THE UNITED STES

SOMEONE HAD GIVEN HIM AN ASSIGNMENT AND MONEY..

20 THIS FELLING WAS STRENGTHENED BY HIS ATTEMPT TO GET A TRANSIT

VISA THROUGH CUBA AND, APPARENTLY, A RUSSIAN IMMIGRANT VISA SO THAT

HE COULD SETTLE DOWN IN ODESSA. ASIDE FROM THE OBVIOUS PREPARATION

FOR A "GET AWAY" THE DESTINATION OF ODESSA STRUCK ME AS ODD.

WHY WOULD A PENNILESS, UNEDUCATED WORKER WITH A FAMILY WHOSE LAST

RUSSIAN JOB APPARENTLY EARNED HIM BARELY ENOUGH TO KEEP BODY AND

SOUL TOGETHER WANT TO GO TO ODESSA? ONE POSSIBLE EXPLANATION WOULD

BE HE EXPECTED TO HAVE ENOUGH MONEY AND TO BE ABLE TO LIVE THE GOOD

LIFE.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

AN. THIS DOCUMENT.

tized

4/28/4.

PAGE TWO RUESMO 30 SECRET

30 IT DID NOT SEEM

PLAUSIBLE THAT

KHRUSHCHEV IS THE

TYPE OF

PERCON WHO WOULD HAVE

BEEN RECKLESS

ENDIGH TO HIRE AN UNSTABLE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED'

NW 53244 DooId:32171185 Page 3

---

## Page 4

172-10004

SECRET

-2= 1201, NOVEMBER 28, from MEXICO CITY,

PERSON LIKE OSWALD

FOR SUCH A FATEFUL UNDERTAKING. BUT CASTRO

IS THE KIND OF PERSON WHO WOULD AVENGE HIMSELF IN THIS WAY. HE IS THE

ATIN TYPE OF EXTREMIST WHO REACTS VISCERALLY RATHER THAN

INTELLECTUALLY AND APPARENTLY WITHOUT MUCH RAGARD FOR RISKS.

HIS WHOLE LIFE STORY SHOWS THIS. AND THE UNPROFESSIONAL

ALMOST LACKADAISICAL WAY IN WHICH THE MONEY IS ALLEGED BY ALVARADO

ID HAVE BEEN PASSED TO OSWALD FITS WITH THE WAY CUBANS WOULD BE

EXPECTED TO ACT IF THE RUSSIANS WERE NOT GUIDING THEM. THIS SUPPOSITION

WAS STRENGTHENED BY MY RECOLLECTION OF AN AP STORY WITH A HAVANA

DATELINE ATTRIBUTING TO CASTRO THREATS AGAINST UNITED STATES

OFFICIALS IN REPRISAL FOR ALLEGED CIA SPONSORED RAIDS ON THE CUBAN

1. WITH THESE

INSTINCTIVE FEELINGS TO GO ON, I THOUGHT IT

HIGHLY UNLIKELY THAT GIRLD DURAN,

KNOWN TO US AS A PROMISCUOUS TYPE

WHO HAD RELATIONS WITH LECHUGA WHEN ME WAS AMBASSADOR HERE, TOLD THE

TRUTH WHEN SHE TOLD THE MEXICAN POLICE THAT OSWALD DID NOT DISCUSS

WAS DISCUSSED

WITH HER, AND THAT OSWALD: LEFT THE CONSULATE ANGRY.

SEND A PERSON

HERE IN THE HOPE THAT HE MIGHT KNOW ABOUT SOME FACT UNKNON TO US

HERE DEVELOPED AT THE US END OF THE INVESTIGATION WHICH WOULD GIVE

US A LEAD HERE. I MAD AND HAVE NO WORRY EITHER THE CASTE

OR THE LEGAL ATTACHE WERE HOLDING ANYTHING BACK FROM MES

BEEN MEETING TOGETHER ALMOST CONTINUOUSLY.

NEITHER WAS IT

BASED ON ANY LÄCK OF CONFIDENCE IN THEIR PROFESSIONAL CAPACITY®

EACH IS THE BEST IN HIS FIELD THAT I HAVE WORKED WITH FOR TWENTY YEARS.

NOR WAS IT BASED ON ANY UNCERTAINTY ABOUT DOING THE BEST THAT COULD

BE DONE WITHTHE ASSETS WE HAVE AND THE FACTS WE HAD TO GO ON.

AT THE SAME TIME, I WISH TO MAKE CLEAR THAT THE RESPONSIBILITY

FOR ALL THE RECOMMENDATIONS MADE BY THIS EMBASSY ARE SOLELY MINE

AND NOT THEIRS.

PAGE THREE RUESMO 30 SECRET

6.XAT THIS. POINT WE GOT THE TWO INTERCEPTS

OFITRE

DORTICOS -

HERNANDEZ ARMAS TELEPHONE CONVERSATIONS.

BOTH SHOW HAVANA"S GREAT

CONCERN THAT THE MEXICAN POLICE MAY HAVE QUESTIONED DURAN ABOUT

"MONEY". THIS TENDS TO CORROBORATE ALVARADO'S STORY ABOUT THEIR

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SE erEt

-3- 1201, NOVEMBER 28, FROM MEXICO CITY

EPASSING OF THE 6,500 DOLLARS. IN MY OPINION IT HAS PROBATIVE VALUE.

HAVANA"S CONCERN IS UNDERSCORED BY US

REPORTED IN YESTERDAY'S EMBTEL 1197.

METTEN PROTEST TO MEXICO

TOMALMOST SIMULTANEOUSLY WITH THE INTERCEPTS

GOT ALVARADO'S

SOMOZA COULD OF COURSE HAVE PUT HIM UP TO THE STORY OR HE

MAY EXPECT MONEY FROM US OR WANT PUBLICITY. NEVERTHELESS THE

WEALTH OF DETAIL HE

GIVES IS STRIKING AND WITH ONE EXCEPTION WE HAVE

THRU FAR BEEN UNABLE TO FIND EVIDENCE WHICH CONTRADICTS A SINGLE

DETAIL. THIS EXCEPTION IS THAT WE CAN FIND NO EMBASSY EMPLOYEE

WHO ADMITS TO HAVING TALKED TO ALVARADO CUSING THE NAME JUAN

KNECHT (PHONETIC) BEFORE THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

HE HAS IMPRESSED EMBASSY OFFICERS WHO HAVE TALKED WITH HIM. HE

HAS OFFERED TO TESTIFY EVEN THOUGH HE KNOWS HIS LIFE IS IN DANGER.

HE IS A DOUBLE AGENT & I UNDERSTAND.

HE IS A COMMUNIST RECRUTED FOR

TRAINING IN CUBA AND ALSO BEING PAID THE THE NICARAGUAN SERVICE>

BUT I DO NOT SEE HOW THE RUSSIANS OR THE CUBANS COULD WANT HIS

STORY TOLD. HIS STORY CONTRADICTS EVERYTHING WE HAVE SEEN HERE ABOUT

COMMUNIST EFFORTS TO GET

ACROSS THE IDEA THAT RIGHTISTS NOT

COMMUNISTS WERE INVOLVED.

80. WE KNOW THAT OSWALD HAD TO GO TO CUBAN CONSULATE HERE ICA

KNOWN COVER FOR CASTRO INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS FOR THE ADDRESS OF

THE OBSCURE HOTEL HE WAS STAYING AT.. IHIS HAS PROBATIVE VALUE TOO.

9. I DO NOT PRETEND THAT. ALL OF THIS IS BY ANY MEANS PROOF

THAT OSWALD WAS CASTRO'S AGENT. I UNDERSTAND HOW FATEFUL MIGHT

BE THE CONCLUSION THAT HE WAS AND HOW DIFFICULT AND RISKY IT WOULD

BE TO TRY TO DISENGAGE AND SEPARATE THE SOVIET UNION FROM CASTRO

IF IT WERE TO BECOME ESTABLISHED FACT THAT CASTRO WAS INVOLVED.

BUT I CANNOT AGREE WITH THE SUGGESTION IN DEPTEL 969 THAT IT DOES

NOT APPEAR THAT THERE IS SUFFICIENT EVIDENCE TO JUSTIFY ARRESTS

AND INTERROGATIONS OF THOSE ALVARADO SAYS ARE INVOLVED. I MUST

ALSO RESPECTIFULLY RECORD MY DISAGREEMENT WITH MY LATEST INSTRUCTIONS

THAT WE TAKE NO FURTHER INITIATIVE TO ENCOURAGE THE MEXICANS

TO ARREST AND INTERROGATE.

100 BE THIS AS IT MAY, DEPARTMENT SHOULD CLEARLY UNDERSTAND THAT

MEXICANS, ALREADY UNDER PRESSURE FROM CUBA FOR PAST ARRESTS AND FRON

THE CARDENAS -COMMIEN ACTION OF THE PRI, ALREADY WISH TO RELEASE

DIRAN AND MEXICANS ARE PRESSING US FOR CONCURRENCE. MEXICANS OBIOUSLY

WILL BE GREATLY RELIEVED IF WE TAKE OFF PRESSURE FOR INVESTIGATION.

IT WILL NOT BE EASY TO GET MEXICANS CRANKED UP AGAIN ONCE WE

SEGRET

HH 53241 DocId: 32171185 Páde 5

---

## Page 6

-SEC

-4- 1201, NOVEMBER 28, FROM MEXICO CITY.

TAKE THE PRESSURE OFF AND AS EMOTION CAUSED BY KENNEDY'S DEATH

DECLINES HERE. MOREOVER, THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT DURAN

OR THE OTHER SUSPECTS WILL BE AVAILABLE LATER ST THEREFORE

REQUEST SOONEST INSTRUCTIONS ON FOLLOWING SPECIFC POINTS:

PAGE FOUR RUESMO 30 SECRET

(A). MEXICANS MUST BE TOLD IMMEDIATELY WHETHER WE WANT THEM TO:

CONTINUE WITH INVESTIGATION. IF WE DO WE MUST NOT ONLY TAKE POSITIVE

POSITION BUT GIVE THEM A BASIS FOR DOING SO, INCLUDING MAKING ALVARADO

AVAILABLE TO MEXICANS. OTHERWISE MEXICAN WILL DROP CASE ON THEIR OWN

/AND THIS QUESTION WILL HAVE BEEN DECIDED BY DEFAULT.

SAYING NOTHING WILL BE INTERPRETED AS LACK OF US INTEREST:

(B)• MEXICANS ARE PRESSING US FOR IMMEDIATE AGREEMENT THAT

SHOULD BE TURNED LOOSE BUT KEPT UNDER SURVEILLANCE. WHAI,

DURAN

SHAL

WE

SAY. REQUEST IMMEDIATE ANSWER TO THIS SPECIFIC QUESTION:

(C). IF ALVARADO IS NOT TO BE TURNED DVER TO MEXICANS WHAT DO

WE DO WITH HIM? SHALL WE SEND THIS TO THE SATESSOR

INTERROGATION? SHALL EMBASSY GIVE HIM POLYGRAPHT

EST

HERE?

OR SHALL WE DO SOMETHING ELSE AND IF SO WHAT? GP-ONE

BI

CEN 1201 961 30 30 30 6,500 1197969 GP-ONE

MESSAGE UNSIGNED

Note:

Advance copy to INr buty Officer.

#11/28/63.0

CWO-M

SECRET

774 532441

DocId: 32171185

Page 6

---

