# docid-32187965

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10247-10175

RECORD_SERIES: MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-8342-113, 114, 115

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53025 Date:

05-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO: FILE

TITLE:

GRAPP, WESLEY G.

DATE: 12/10/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/24/1997

Redact

LHO, POST-RP, PEP

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO, LTR

NH 53025 DocId:32187965 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

5010-106

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

U'NITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: 5:6(105-8342)

DATE: 12/10/63

72-643

03=pe mete

FROM : SA James J. A'Connor

Class

DICKED ON 10409

9803122/gel

SUBJECT:

ASSAS VANTON DE POTSINT TONY R. THINEDY

AFC

Reinemo of SAC, 12/10/63 relaring to PEDRO Or PITE? CALLES

AXO MEL

ROSARIO MOLINA.

iami indices are remative on ClALES and DEL ROSARIO (and/or

CLINA)

Records of INS, liai, checied this date by Investigator CA LES

CAiLAVES, are negative on CUlTS and DEL/RESARIO or MOLINA.

rS. hILDA SARUlA, SeCretary at the "lorida

Public Welfare Dept.

office

Jiani, handling cuban refugee cases, advised that neither

•MaLES or DaLROSARIO/ MOLINA

registered with

that office or

with the Cuban

Refugee Center, 600 Biscayne Blvd., Miami.

Recor is of the Credit Bureau of Greater Viami, caused to be

checked by E RO AID THINTON, were also negative

On CAPIPS or

DI: INSARIO/ MOLTNA.

Records of the following agencies, contacted

telephonica ly on

12/10/63, were sta ed

to be ne ative on CARES and

DOL

POSAZTO/

'OT TNA:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Dade Dept of Piblic Safety

DECLASSIFICATION AND COI,

"jani

Pnlice lent.

2/10/917

RELEASE OF CIA INAURMATIO

Miami

Beach Police sept.

Tiami lunicinal Court.

IN THIS DOCUNENT.

The following directories are negat ve on C'A lES and DEL ROSARIO/

MOLINA:

9/63 Greater Miami Telephone

sir ectory

1962 Polk City virectory for Miami.

1963 Polk Suburban Directory for viani.

On 12/10/63 the following

were contacted by SA GEORGE DAVIS with

negative resilts in this matter:

105-8342-114

JOAQ IN GODOY, publicity direc or of the Movimiento

olucionario del

Pueblo

(Revolutionaty Movement of the People)

which is associated with two other anti-Castro organi-

zations, Alpha 66 and the Second National Front of Mi

Es canbray.

secretary of the Pro Referendúm Committee,

anich is compiling an index on all cubans in the s

S6b8.540/400

ON 515/97.

1029

1N 33025 Do01d:32187965 Page 2

-1-

-1.25

---

## Page 3

MM 492-S, former Cuban police official, well informed, anc

maintaining his own records.

contacted by SA James Hayes with

negative results in this matter.

Results of name checks by CIA, Miami, have not been received

12/10/63, a1 though

asth de request for expeditious treatment. (1VD

office was called back

Agents

the ts squad knew

sone

above!

of

of the

the indirdusks mentioned

§HENRIETTA

LORiS, CiA COVERT

advised ser

office had no reard

of CHARLES

DEL ROSARiOG)

HW 53025

DocId: 32187965

Page

3

---

