# docid-32296863

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107

Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10218-10139

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 162-1606-16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SMITH, FRANK J.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/22/1968

17

DVC, RES, EMP, BUSS ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, NEWS ARTIC,

MM HERALD, TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS, FISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/13/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DOCId: 32296863

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 21077

Hotel:,,

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 162-446

It is requested that Interviews be conducted

with JAMES J.

ALLEN, 897 N. Highland Avenue, N.E, Atlanta;

Georgia,

ROBERT S. MOOREFIELD, 2110 Rosewood Road, Decatue, Georgia,

and ROBERT R. WELLS,

2256 Willivee Place, Decatur, Georgia,

to determine their relationship with DINO VINCENT CELLINI.

It is noted that ALLEN MOCREFIELD and WELLS were

In telephonic sonmunicacion with CaLlINi during the period

October 14, 1968 through November 22, 1967.

MIAMI

AT MIAMI.

FLORIDA

i.

Will follow and report results of Investigation

requested of the Cleveland Office (15304464121.

2.

Will follow and report resuits of investigation

requested of the New York Office

as set

forth in referenced

Miami report of June 12, 1968.

3. Will maintain contact with MM 843-PC and

MM 1232-C-TE relative to DINO VINCENT CELLINI's accly.cies

and contacts with Individuals at Bahanas gambiog casinos.

ADMINISTRATIVE.

The character of this case is being changed to

add Anti-Racketeering to the character

Interstate Cambling

Activities.

Investigation has reyealed that CElLINI may be

tied in with members of the organized stirinal sledent and

as such, his activitles should be reported under the AR

category as well as IGA.

The spot physical surveillanoss of ColLINI at

his residence and at the Dupont Plazs. Center have bren

conducted by SA FRANK J. SMITH and SA ROBERT A. COOK.

-B.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32296863

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 'USC 2107*

Hote).,

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 162-446

The Newark Office by letter dated June 17, 1958

identified LOUIS KROMBERG as a contact of CELLINI In the

Newark area. KROMBERG was identified as a prohibition

era gangster who now contols the Liquor Salesman Union

In New Jersey®

KROMBERG Is further Identifled as an

associate of GERARDO CATENA, nOtOrIOus La CosE Nostra figure.

Miani requested KROMBERG be

Interviewed.

Newark advised

that KROMBERG since May, 1968 has been under developuent

under the TECIP of the Newark Office.

It was felt that

an attempt to interview KROMBERG regarding CELLINI at this

time would be premature.

It has been recomenied that

the Interview of KROMBERG be held in advance wotal such

time as it is belleved that he will fully cooperate.

Information copy of this report has

been furnished

to the Newark and New York Offices each, in view of

the

continuing interest of these offices In

DINO VINCENT

CELLINI.

INFORMANTS

MM TOl IS AL FARRIS, Special Agent, Intelligence

Unit, Florida State Beverage Department.

MM T-2 Is LV 183-C.

MM T-3 IS THEODORE KING, Security Director,

Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company, Atlanta,

Georgia (By request).

MM TOL IS MM 1232-C-TE.

• C*.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32296863

Page 3

---

