# docid-32563727

## Page 1

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

REPORT MADE AT

NEW ORLEANS, IA.

NEW ORLEANS, IA.

DATE WHEN MADE

8/17/41

NO FILE NO. 47-2183

PERIOD FOF

VHICH MADE

8/9/44

TITLE

CHAN

KHD :

JOHN CAESAR

GROSSI,

was,

Grossi, Jack Grossi, John Jack

Grossi. Jack Dale Williams

REPORT MADE BY •

GEORGE W. SMITH

CHARACTER OF CASE

INPERSONATION

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Subject consented to trial under Federal

41ndersorvation Juvenile Delinquency Act on 7/19/44 and

FJDA

admitted instant violation. Sentenced by

U.S. District Judge WAYNE G. BORAH on

Ilons (og)

8/2/44 to

seven days imprisonment

record

TANA

-C-

AUG 31 1944

REFERANCE:

Report of Special Agent GEORGE W.

Louisiana, dated July 7, 1944.

Letter Sevannah to Bureau dated July 7,

eans,

GWS: vS

DETAILS:

The title of this case is being marked changed to reflect two.

additional aliases of the Subject as shown in reference letter

to the Bureau. These

names are JOHN JACK GROSSI and GIOVANNI

00 F

I.

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

ROSICURVE STEPS:

"En July i9, 1941 Subject consented to petried under the Federal

Juvenile Delinquency Act, and in a private

hearing before United

States District Judge WAYNE G. BORAH he admitted instant violation.

This case was continued pending a report by the Probation Officer

upon an attempted arrangement to enrollithe subject in the wer

P. Kilikene

SPECIA

HEAT

AGEN

I CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

3+5359

RECORDED

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

3 Bureau (enc)

2. Savannah

:A4S 27 1944

2 New

Orleans

93

74 45803

DooId: 32563727

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NO

47-2183

chant Marine. U.S. Probation Officer, PAUL SEIDIER, advised the

Subject was not acceptable for training in the Merchant Marine and

his case

was to be roferred to a local social service institute to

obtain suitable employment for the Subject in New. Orleans.

Judge

BORAII, on August 2, 1944 sentenced Subject to seven days, imprisonment

as reflected on Criminal Docket Number 21583, for violation Title

18, USCA, 921-929.

CRIMINAL RECORD:

-The following criminal record under FBI number 3967794

was received from the Bureau:

State Police,

Philadelphia, Pa.

#0-16673

John Jack Grossi

State Police

Media, Pa.

8/17/43

Juve. delancy reta to N.J.

State Home for Boys,

Jamesburg, N.J.

USM, Savannah, Ga

Jack Dale Williams 3/30/44

#S-1603

wearing uniform of

U.S. Navy, STSA

of 1940

5/11/44

both chgs.

dismisd,

USM, New Orleans

John Caesar Gross1 7/6/44

#7368

JuT. Del. Act

II.

By referenced letter dated July 7, 1944, the Savannah Field

Division furnished this office with the pertinent facts of subject's

case in that Field Division.

A disposition sheet reflecting the disposition of instant

case is being submitted to the Bureau herewith.

ENCLOSURE TO BUREAU: One Disposition Sheet.

- CLOSED -

-2-

Sod-1o3s

45803

DooId: 32563727

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 47-2185

THE SAVANNAH FIELD DIVISION

Copies of this report are being furnished to the Savannah Field

Division for completion of their files inasmuch as they have a previous

recora of the subjecto

45803

DooId: 32563727

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

NEW ORLEANS, LAD

DATE WHEN MADE

8/17/44

NO FILE NO. 47-2183

REPORT MADE AT

NEW ORLEANS, LA.

TITLE

JOIN CAESAR GROSSI, was,

Glovannt Crossi, Jacks Crossi, John Jack

Grosss, Jack Dalo Hilllang

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE

8/9/14

REPORT MADE BY

CHARACTER OF CASE

IMPERSONATION

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Subjeet consented to trial under federal

Juvenile Delinquency Act on 7/19/44 and

admittod instant violation. Sentenced by

V.S. Diatriot Juage WAYNE C. BORAH On

8/3/44 to saven days imprisonments: Criminal

record sot out. Disposition sheet subnitted.

REFERINGS:

DETAILS:

Report of Special Agent CUORCE W. SHIT, at New Orloans,

Louisiana, dated July 7, 1944.

Letter Savannah to Bureau dated July 7, 1944.

The title of this case is being marked changed to reflect two

additional aliases of tho Subject as shown in reference lotter

to the Bureau.

These names are JOll JAck GRossI and GIovanI

GROSSI.

I.

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

COPIES OF THIS REPORT.

3 Bureau (ena)

2 Затадлаї

2 USA, New Orleans

& Now Orleans

PROSECUTITE SWERE

On July 19, 1944 Subject consented to be tried under the Federal

Juvonile Delinquency Act, and in a private hearing before United

Stetes District Judge WAYNE G. BORAH he admitted Instant violation.

This case was continued pending a report by the Probation offloor

upon an attenpted arrangement to proll the Subject in the tor-

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

43-15859-18

FILE

UPY

905

7-2034

NW 45803 DooId: 32563727 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NO 44-2183

chant Marine.

Jose Probation officer, fauL stilull, advised the

Subject was not acceptable for training in the herchant Marine and

his case was to be referred to a local

social service institute to

obtain suitable employment for the Subject in lew Orleans.

Judge

BORAH, on August 2, 1944 sentenced Subject to seven days imprisonnent

as roflected on Crininal Docket Nunber 21583, for violation Pitle

18, USCA, 921-929.

CRIMINAL RECORD:

The following criminal record under FBI number 5967794

was received from the Bureau:

State Polico,

Philadelphia,

Pa.

40-26625-4

USM, Savannah, Ca

John Jack Grossi

State. Police

Media, Pa..

Jack Dale W1l11ans

45-1605

8/17/43

3/30/44

Juve. delgney reta to l.J.

State Hone for toys,

Janesburg, N.J.

wearing uniform of

5/11/44

U.S. Navy, SUSA

bọth chgs.

of 1840

dianisd.

USM, Now Orleans

John Caesar Grosa1

7/6/44

#7568

Juva Del. Act

IIa.

By referenced letter dated July 7, 1944, the Savamah Field

Division furnished this office with the portinent facts of Subject's

0as0

In that Field Division.

A disposition shoet reflecting the disposition of instant

one is being subnitted to the Bureau herewith.

• ENCLOSURE TO BUREAU:

One Disposition Sheet.

CLOSED

02-

Sti-vers!

74 45803

DocId: 32563727

Page 5

---

## Page 6

" NO

47-2183

THE SAVANNAH FIELD DIVISION

Coples of this report are being furnished to the Savannah Blold

Division for completion of their files inasnuch as they have a previous

record of the Subjecte

14 45803

DocId: 32563727

Page 6

---

