# docid-32291292

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10207-10068

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-29-666

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/04/1963

2

CIP, GAMBLING, INTV, FARBER, NATE, BROWN, ABE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32291292 Page 1

26

---

## Page 2

., FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

.x..

FBI

Date:

6/4/63,

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

SAC, MIAMI (92-515)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

NATE FARBER (MM 92-118), when interviewed, advised

he sold his trailer court in 1961 for $480,000.00 and

currently holds the first mongage, for which he will receive

$2,690.00 each month for a period of 15 years.

ABE BROWN (MM 165-18), when interviewed, stated he

was no longer operating as a bookmaker and he intends to let

his Federal Gambling Tax Stamp lapse. He stated he is still

operating his check cashing business and in his business

cashs checks for gamblers who receive their winnings by check.

BROWN also stated that if he starts bookmaking again, he

will go to New York City, where he has contacts and relatives,

who would do business with him.

MM 869-PCI advised that OSCAR/ECHEMENDIA, a F LA...

sizeable bolita operator in Miami, who also owns the Cafe

D'Artist Night Club and operates a filling station in Miami,

Fla. de bankrolled by MARTiaoX, a vealchy cuban exten iet 1K

He also stated RAUL, FERNANDEZ,

a Cuban exile, is a sizeable..tt

bolita operator in Miami who has been bankrolled by _EVARISTO

CARCIA who in the past also had a bolita operation and at one

Elme bankrolled RAUL DE LA ORRES, who is a bolita operator

in Dade Co., Fla.

3) - Bureau (AM)

This source further advised MANUS MENNEdy

62-9-31-12

2 = Miami

RFF: mgw

2 JUN 6 1963

(5)

cà wick 1

Approved: E 28 We,

62 JUN 11 195 Special AgoWlin Charge

Sent

Quar

.M

Per

NW 45760 DocId: 32291292 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FLE

MM 92-515

who is bankrolled by another Cuban, formerly was a bookmaker.

He said MENENDEZ owes a considerable amount of money which

has caused him to be delinquent in his bolita payoffs and

which in turn has caused his volume to be small

NEVADA ILA

MM 509-C advised HAROLD/FISHMAN, aka. JERRY FISHER,

returned to Miami from Las Vegas and is again hanging out at

the Patio Bridge Club, Miami Beach. Before FISHER went to

Las Vegas he loaned RUT™ GASSENHEIMER, co-owner of the Patio

FLA

Bridge Club, several thousand dollars and GASSENHEIMER gave

him a number of postdated checks.

former PCI and a private detective,

confidentially advised that he received information that JOHN

MANCONI, a bartender the past winter season at the Shore Club

\Hotel, Miami Beach, quit his job recently. He said MANCONI,

according to his information, paid JOE CAPUTO, a Miami Beach/= L 4

Police Department detective, $10.00 a week in order to conceal

the fact that he, MANCONI, had a criminal record in New York

City, which reportedly has barred MANCONI from working in

liquor establishments in New York for ten years.

OTHER 4

-2-

NW 45760 DocId: 32291292 Page 3

---

