# docid-32262638

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/2/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10108-10207

NUMBERED FILES.

013900

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

WC

FBI

ITAR, GAMBLING.

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/18/1963

5

BARNES, GEORGE EDWARD.

LEADS & INFORMATION.

RUBY, JACK; BACKGROUND, RACKETEERING AND

SUBVERSIVE ACTIVIT.

ORGANIZED CRIME

MATTHEWS, RUSSELL.

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT.

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Tabbed 243-2. Box 243 (folder 1 of 2)

v9.1

HH 50529

DooId: 32262638

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Report Form

+10-263(5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Roporting Olfco

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

Offico of Origin

DALLAS

RUSSELI DOUGLAS MATTHEWS, aka.

R. D.; Matthews

Dato

7/18/63

Roport mado by

IVAN D. LEE

CHARACTER OF CASE

Lavestigativo Parlod

4/3/63-7/8/63

Typod Byi

ITAR - GAMBLING

Synopsis:

REFERENCE:

Dallas letter to Bureau, 4/8/63;

Dallas

letter to New Orleans, 5/15/63 (IO)

Dallas

letter to St. Louis and Little Rock.

a n 3 102: 623/63 170),

LEADS:

Approvod

Copios mado:

LITTLE ROCK AND ST. LOUIS - INFORMATION;

One copy of this report is being furnished to the

Little Rock Division in that information developed indicates

subject travels to Hot Springs, Arkansas, and apparently 1s

acquäinted with several of the

gamblers In Hot Springs, Arkansas.

One copy 1s furnished to the st. Louis Division

Inasmuch as referenced airtel included a lead for that Division

to identify a subscriber to a

telephone number and furnish the

- Special Agent

In Chargo

Do not writo ln spacos below

166

636

2

Bureau

1

- USA, Ft. Worth

1

-Little Rock (Info)

- St. Louis (Info)

_ New Orleans

2

- Oklahoma City

3 - Dallas (166-102)

MCT-20

REG- 54

P JUL 22

19S3

CS. Aa= Criminal Division,

Ornized Crite :.

icketeering section

Доот

7-25

Props to EBI Zaa reportia loaned to you by the FBl, cal caller ll nor lia contents aro to be distributed outsido she agoney to which loco

HH 50529 DooId:92262638 Page 2

Beiger ca

---

## Page 3

DI 166-102

results to the Dallas Division and the Little Rock Division.

NEW ORIEANS DIVISION

wiil identify the following individuals through

a check of the credit and criminal records and establish

sources in their respective areas.

will furnish this

Information to the Dallas Division along with any available

photograph from the law enforcement agency for possible

future use in identifying the subject's contacts in Dallas,

Texas.

AT BILOXI, MISSISSIPPI

D. J. VENUS, III, telephone #ID-4-4268

AT LAUREL MISSISSIPPI

JIM BLACKWELL, aka Blackie, telephone #4251702

AT SHREVEPORT, LA.

GEORGE BOX, telephone #423-9427

AT NEW ORLEANS, LA.

1. SAMMY PAXTON, telephone #523-0147

2. FRED BROUSSARD, Bolton Ford Company

OKLAHOMA CITY DIVISION

AT OKLAHOMA CITY

1. Will cause a check to be made of the Toll records

charged to telephones available to GEORGE EDWARD BARNES

and furnish the same to the Dallas Division for a possible

evaluation in an effort to determine BARNES and the

subject's involvement in the proposed gambling club in

Tarrant County, Texas.::

2. Will ascertain through informants, If BARNES

possibly furnishing money to MATTHEWS for the establish-

ment of a gambling club near it. Worth, Texas.

DALLAS DIVISION

-

COVER PAGE

MY 50529 DocId: 32262638 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DIL 166-102

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

1. Will follow the subject's activities through

established sources, spot surveillances, in an effort

to ascertain 1f he 1e in violation of the Federal ITAR

Statute.

2. Will obtain toll calls charged to the subject's

phone at his residence, 4817 Reiger Street, for a period

of the last three months.

AT FT. WORTH, TEXAS

W1ll Identify subscriber to telephone #BU-1-1699,

and thereafter conduct credit, criminal, and source

Investigation for background information and ascertain

1f this individual could possibly be Involved in the

alleged opening of a gambling Club near Et. Worth, Texas.

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA:

It is noted that the extensive period covers

the Investigation period in this investigation, however,

some of the information was reported prior to the Dallas

Division opening a case under the ITAR Statute.

It 1s

noted that several of the telephone numbers set forth

1n leads to various offices was obtained from a highly

confidential scurce of the Criminal Intelligence Section,

Dallas PD,

who requested that this information be not

disseminated outside of the FBI.In conducting the investi-

gation, no refence should be made to the source, or should

the investigation Indicate that this information came

from ahighlyconfidential-sourees

Mr. R. A. BURROW, Chief Special Agent,

Southwestern Bell

Telephone Company, Dallas, Texas,

was contacted. by SA IVAN D. LEE On 5/10/63.

The following 1s a summary of pertinent

information received from informants and confidential

sources of the dallas Division In connection with this

matter.

The sources have requested that their identity

remain confidential.

C

COVER PAGE

17t-50529

Docld/32262638-Page 4

---

## Page 5

DL 166-102

state

what the

subsect had been in Hot Springs, Arkangas

dont the

middle of March, 1963. He also advised

on this date

that MATHEWS had left Dallas, Texas on

the morning of

4/3/63 en route g Hot Springs, Arkansas via or homa

City, Oklahoman

he was to pick up Okuancma.city

gambler, GEORG

WPANES.: Informant stated that

BARNES and MAMHENS

Were to met some unknown individual

in Hot Springs, Arkansas.

on 4/7/63, Informant stated that MATTHEWS

had returned to Dallas and residing with his daughter,

PEGGY ANN MATTHEWS, Who 1s employed at the Texas Ste

Bank and Trust, Company in the Credit Department.

on 5/3/63,

Section, Dallas,

developed that MATTHEWS had recently contacted one

GEORGE BOX, Shreveport, Louisiana, telephone number

DalIt MATTHEWS Lad

Criminal Intelligence

stated that iniormation had been

423-9427 concerning a possible "two day score"

• He had

also contacted a JIM. BLACKWELL of Laurel. Mississ1pp1,

telephone #425-1702.

According to

MATTHEWS

was spending a considerable amount

mie attempting

to raise enough money to obtain the release,

on bond,

of his friend, GEORGE FUQUA, who was recently Incar-

cerated at the Kansas sate Penitentiary.

stated that

according to their source,

MATTHEWS

Hass

been in contact with JOHN ELISTONE, a.:

known Dallas bookmaker and gambler, TOMMY POTTS,

a known

Ft. Worth gambled, SOFIE GEBRON, a Dallas bookmaker, and

GOERGE EDWARD BARNES, a known gambler from Oklahoma

city,

Oklahoma..

According to!

they were going to

open a gambling club loe.

somewhere on the west side

of the ft. Worth Clty 11mits.

According to source,.

the

sheriff of Tarrant county had agreed to let thém operate

on the west side of the county as there is too much

"Federal heat" created by the operation of a gambling

joint perated.on the East side of Tarrant County.

stated that

scurce has been In contact

With CLARK BOYD HAMILTON, a known Dallas highjacker

and

hoodlum.

-D-

COVER PAGE

fift

NH 50529 DocId:32262638 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DI 166-102

on 5/31/63.

stated that the source

Pl. Fate!!

had received information that Hot Springs, Arkansas

gamblers, JACK: GUNTER

and HUBERT DANE HARRIS, were

in Dallas, Texas on 5/30663 and were urgently attempting:

to contact the subject.

Source subsequently learned

, that MATTHEWS did not want to have any contact with

GUNER at this time.

MATTHEWS

ncontact with the following Individuals

stated that according to their source, l. Intell

located outside of Dallas, Texas:

SAMMY PAXTON, New Orleans, La., telephone

#5230147

JIM BLACKWELL LaureL, Miss:

425-1702

GEORGE. BOX,

Spot Club, Shreveport, La.

telephone #423-9427

BASIL BRITTON-NEWTON, Las Vegas, Nevada,

telephone #385-9748.

GEORGE EDWARD BARNES, Oklahoma CIty, Oklahoma

telephone #WI. 6-4353

D.

J.

• '4-2668

VENUE, III., B1lox1, M1ss1ss1pp1,

stated that most of the above contacts Pol. Iutal!

were of a hoodlum type conversation which indicated

to their source that all the individuals were aware

MATTHEWS background and were possibly involved with the

ung and were possibly

criminal element themselves.

-E*

COVER PAGE

HH 50529 Docid: 32262638

Page 6

---

