# docid-32157589

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10125-10023

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-1639-4095

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. HO

SAC. MM

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES: 10

Released under

the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

collection

Act of

1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

SUBJECT: JR, BKG, AFFIL, RACT AND SUBVERSIVE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

07/26/1996

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

1N 54463

Doc1d:32157589

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FBI-HOUSTON

742•

PM CST URGENT

JDG

TO

MIAMI AND DALLAS (44-1639)

FROM

HOUSTON: (44-939)

ALL INFOBZATION CONTATNED

HEREIN IS UNCUASSIFLEL

D: 6e:9-43 Px 8x kdd/ kdd/ne

(STK)

JACK LO RUBY, AKAO: LEE HARVEY OSWALD, AKA. - VICTIM

(DECEASED), CR. 00 DALLAS.

RETELS FROM DALLAS TO HOUSTON JANUARY FIFTEEN AND IWENTY

= ONE LAST.

FOR INFO MIAMI, DALLAS TELETYPE JANUARY FIFTEEN LAST

SET. FORTH FOLLOWING.

INTERVIEW DECEMBER TWENTYONE LAST, RUBY ADVISED IN

PART QUOTE RUBY VOLUNTEERED THAT SOME YEARS AGO, "AT A TIME

WHEN CASTRO WAS POPULAR IN THE UNITED STATES HE READ OF

AN INDIVIDUAL IN THE VICINITY OF HOUSTON, TEXAS MAVING BEEN :

ENGAGED IN "GUN RUNNING TO CASTRO"• HE SAID HE ATTEMPTED BY

TELEPHONE TO GET IN TOUCH WITH THIS INDIVIDUAL AS HE HAD IN

MIND "MAKING A BUCK" BY POSSIBLY ACQUIRING SOME JEEPS OR OTHER

SIMILAR EQUIPMENT WHICH HE MIGHT SELL TO PERSONS INTERESTED IN

END PAGE ONE

44-1639-4093

ARCHED

Érsignei

JAN 2 4 1964

FBI - DALLAS

HH 54463 DooId:32157589 Page 2

---

## Page 3

HO 44-939 PAGE FIVE

WAS PRODUCED AND ENTERED. IN EVIDENCE BY ONE CHESLEY JONESS

DALLAS,

AN ATTU AGENT.

REVIEW HOUSTON FILES REFLECT THAT CI MM SIX THREE

NINE DASH S. MAY POSSIBLY BE INDIVIDUAL RUBY ATTEMPTED TO REACH

BY TELEPHONE.

HOUSTON IS LOCATING MC KEOWN AND WILL INTERVIEW HIM.

MIAMI WILL CONTACT MM SIX THREE NINE - SAND INTERVIEW

HIM IN ACCORDANCE WITH DALLAS REQUEST IN DALLAS TELETYPE ON

JANUARY FIFTEEN LAST.

DALLAS. WILL ATTEMPT TO LOCATE AND INTERVIEW CHESLEY

JONES, ATTU AGENI, TO ASCERTAIN IF PERCHANCE HE HAD TALKED:

WITH RUBY DURING PERTINENT. PERIOD AND FURNISHED RUBY NAME OF

INDIVIDUAL IN HOUSTON

WHO HAD BEEN CONVICTED. FOR GUN RUNNING

ACTIVITIES. P.

DL FLL

FBI DALLAS

MM PFC

FBI MIAMI

HH 54463 DocId: 32157589 Page 3:

---

## Page 4

FBI-HOUSTON

742

PM CST URGENT

JDG

TO

MIAMI AND DALLAS (44-1639)

69.93 37K

9903 Add poss

FROM

HOUSTON (44-939)

JACK LO RUBY, AKA.; LEE HARVEY OSWALD, AKA. - VICTIM

(DECEASED), CRO 00 DALLAS.

=

RETELS FROM DALLAS LO HOUSTON JANUARY FIFTEEN AND IWENTY

ONE LAST.

FOR INFO MIAMI, DALLAS TELETYPE JANUARY FIFTEEN LAST

SET FORTH FOLLOWING.

INTERVIEW DECEMBER TWENTYONE LASI, RUBY ADVISED IN

PART QUOTE RUBY VOLUNTEERED THAI SOME YEARS AGO, "AI A TIME

WHEN CASTRO WAS POPULAR IN THE UNITED STATES" HE READ OF

AN INDIVIDUAL IN THE VICINITY OF HOUSTON, TEXAS HAVING BEEN

ENGAGED IN "GUN RUNNING TO CASTRO". HE SAID HE ATTEMPTED BY

TELEPHONE TO GET IN TOUCH WITH THIS INDIVIDUAL AS HE HAD IN

MIND "MAKING A BUCK" BY POSSIBLY ACQUIRING SOME JEEPS OR OTHER

SIMILAR EQUIPMENT WHICH HE MIGHT SELL TO PERSONS INTERESTED IN

END PAGE ONE

44-1639-4095

IF CARCHED

SERIALIZE:

JAN 2 4 1964

• FBJ - DAL

pooley

HH 54463

DocId:32157589

Page

---

## Page 5

HO 44-939 PAGE FIVE

WAS PRODUCED AND ENTERED IN EVIDENCE BY ONE CHESLEY JONES, DALLAS,

AN ATTU AGENT.

REVIEW HOUSTON FILES REFLECT THAT CI. MM SIX THREE

NINÉ DASH S MAY POSSIBLY BE INDIVIDUAL RUBY ATTEMPTED TO REACH

BY TELEPHONE®

\HOUSTON IS LOCATING MC KEOWN AND WILL INTERVIEW HIM.

MIAMI WILL CONTACT MM SIX THREE NINE • S AND INTERVIEW

HIM IN ACCORDANCE WITH DALLAS REQUEST IN DALLAS TELETYPE ON

JANUARY FIFTEEN LAST•

DALLAS WILL ATTEMPT TO LOCATE AND INTERVIEW CHESLEY

JONES, ATTU AGENT, TO ASCERTAIN IF' PERCHANCE HE HAD TALKED:

WITH RUBY DURING PERTINENT PERIOD AND FURNISHED RUBY NAME OF

INDIVIDUAL IN HOUSTON WMO HAD BEEN CONVICTED FOR GUN RUNNING

ACTIVITIES. P.

DL FLL

FBI DALLAS

MM PriC

FBI MIAMI

@P

TH 54163 DocId: 32157589 Page 5

---

