# docid-32287653

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/13/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10197-10429

HQ

159-757-X

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Follection det of 1992

144 USC

107 Notel.

ate: 08-21-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, SJ

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/08/1960

2

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Redact

05/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

IT 53932

DocId: 32287653

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

ESZONAL FORM NO. 16 55

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memoran..um

RE

- 16

litte

see mino

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI 663-5327

DATE:

12/8/60

FROM.. :

SAC, SAN JUAN (92=39)

SUBJECT:

JAMES-RIDDLE HOFF A

FEAMSTERS-UNTON

INFORMATION CONCEANINO Sorse 901 Teamstualsin

in''

5,87 dan Juan, Peat Pis

2-/0

Enclosed herewith are five copies of a letter-

head memorandum concerning captioned matter.

Source 1s BRUNILDA CUMPIANO, who was formerly

a Social Reporter at "El Imparcial" newspaper and, after

joining the Teamsters Union, began to associate with

Teamsters officials.

Her knowledge of Teamsters

activities is a result of her association with these

officials.

Source attended George Washington University,

Washington, D. C.,

spent-two years In the Army, and for

a time was employed by G-2. she was Interviewed by Agents

of the SJO as a result of a telephone call from her doctor,

who stated that source had expressed to him deep concern

over the activities she had observed in connection with

her association with FRANK CHAVEZ and members of the Union.

At the time of interview source was in the Mimiya Clinic

undergoing a treatment for hyperthyroid.

No action is being taken by the SJO at the

present time regarding information contained in the

enclosed letterhead memorandum;

however,

Bureau authority

1s requested to contact CUMPIANO again for adaitional

Information concerning Teamsters Union activities in SJ.

No Iocal dissemination Is being made of 1n5tan757-*

material.

MOT - 17, Newl) 459-473-

Bureau (Enc 5) (RM)

San Juan

REG: 16.

2 DEC IR 1960

(3)

51 DE@211580 by

F32

12-15660

03

HH 53932 DocId:32287653 Page 2

---

