# docid-32332861

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90104-10159

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2940-37

Reieaeed aadea bae dekr

Kennesa

Feeaeezrabzer Reoezde

Cetbeobter 208 e8 รท322

144 T89 2230

renei.

Caag=:H 45256 Saze:

.--25=-

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE : 09/04/1958

'PAGES :

30

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 45836

Dooid: 32332861

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG 92-226

The Pittsburgh "Sun-Telegraph" Blue Streak Edition, dated

July 15, 1958, carried

an article on Page 3 regarding the

failure of LA ROCCA to answer the Government's invitation

to his preliminary naturalization hearing.

The article

described LA ROCCA as the one-time boss of the East Liberty

numbers racket.

A similar article appeared in the Final Edition of the Pittsburgh

"Post-Gazette" on July 16, 1958, and described LA ROCCA

as one of the few who escaped a

round-up of sixty ganglords

at a rural retreat in upstate New York last fall.

Information Regarding Subpoena for La Rocca to Appear

Before United States

Senate Labor Rackets Committee

ALBERT DI MEOLO, United States Marshal for the Western District

of Pennsylvania

at Pittsburgh, advised SA VOEGE on July 1,

1958, that he had received a subpoena to serve to SEBASTIAN

JOHN LA ROCCA to appear before the Senate Select Committee

on Improper Activities in the Labor Management Field.

He stated further that LA ROCCAs close associate, MIKE

GENOVESE, had already been served with a subpoena to appear

before that committee and that he had been contacted in this

regard at Archie's Automatic Car Wash, 8050 Bennett Street,

Pittsburgh, by a Deputy United States

Marshal on June 20,

1958.

He explained that both subpoenas advise the recipients

or their lawyers to contact telephone number Capitol 4-3121

at Washington, D. C., for further advice as to when to appear

before this committee.

DI MEOLO was recontacted on August 25, 1958, and August 26,

1958, by SA VOECE at which time he advised that he had

learned nothing new concerning the present whereabouts of

LA ROCCA and that he was still interested in learning the

- present whereabouts of GABRIEL MANNARINO, a close associate

Of LA ROCCA and a Pittsburgh top hoodlum, who has also

"disappeared" from the Pittsburgh vicinity.

It was observed by DI MEOLO at this time a subpoena is st1ll

outstanding for the appearance off

before the Federal

Grand Jury for the

to testify and

give evidence in recard

to an alleged violation of

JEK Law 10(a) 2

- 28 -

92-2940-32 1002)

NW 45836 DooId: 32332061 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-226

JEK Act 6 (4)

INFORMANTS

T=1 1s

a potential criminal informant of

the Pittsburgh Office, who was

contacted on July 21, 1958, by

SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

identity be concealed.

T-3 1s WILLIAM MEREDITH, Special Agent, Bell Telephone

Company of Pennsylvania, who was contacted by SA HAROLD L.

STEVENS

on August 27, 1958, and who has requested that his

identity be concealed.

T-4 1s MIss HELEN TURNER of the New York Telephone Company

at Buffalo, New York, who was contacted on July 21, 1958,

by a Buffalo Agent, and who has requested that her

identity

be concealed.

T-5 1s PG 513-C, who was contacted by SA JOHN S. PORtElLA

on July 23, 1958.

T-6 1s

a potential criminal informant

of the Pittsburgh Office,

who was contacted on July 25, 1958,

and August 26, 1958, by SA VOEGE.

= 30 -

NO 45836

DocId: 32332061 Page 3

---

