# docid-32326277

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90044-10126

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 122-3019-8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: LA

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

01/23/1962

1

FRANK MATULA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RADIOGRAM

v9.1

NW 45864

DocId: 32326277

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1/23/62

CODE

RADIOGRAM

URGENT (HOLD FOR NEXT RADIO CONTACT)

73,.

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach .

Evans -

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Ingram .

Gandy _

SAC, LOS ANGELES (122-216)

THOM: DIRSCTOR, 6 7232-30185-8

MIKE HARABEDIAN; FRANK NATULA, JR., ET AL. i LIRA - IN.

REURAIRTEL ONE NINETEEN SIXTY TWO. BUREAU BELIEVES THAT ANY

SUBPOENA FOR RECORDS OF TEAMSTERS UNION SHOULD BE SERVED BY

U. S. MARSHAL. BUREAU AUTHORITY NOT GRANTED FOR SPECIAL AGENTS

TO SERVE SUBPOENA. BUREAU HAS NO OBJECTION FOR THO MATURE AND

EXPERIENCED AGENTS TO CONTACT MATULA TO REQUEST VOLUNTARY

ACCESS TO RECORDS PROVIDING NO INFORMATION IN YOUR FILES TO

INDICATE SUCH CONTACT INADVISABLE. DISCUSS WITH AUSA IN LIGHT

OF THESE INSTRUCTIONS AND SURAD TODAY RESULTS OF THIS DISCUSSION.

INCLUDE RESULTS OF DISCUSSION ONE TWENTY, TWO LAST WITH AUSA

RELATING TO PROCEEDING IN VIEW OF STRIKE REFERRED TO RE AIRTEL.

DJG: mp MAVIA RADIOGRAM.

(3)

JAN 2,3 1962

NOTE:

Radio

12:58P. JA

contacts with Los Angeles at 1 and 5 p.m.

Investigation based on information obtained

confidentially from

I former official of Teamsters

Local 208, LA, that

Matula and John Dorbish,: officials of

Teamsters

Local 396, were making collections from various

employers and not reporting proceeds to local. Investigatior

has revealed Harabedian one of employers involved, had no

written contract with local, made payments to local for dues

withheld from employees,

and did not obtain written

authorization

from employees to withhold union dues from salaries.

I et

16%

MAIL

ROOM W

294

YPE UNIT

OTHER 4

NW 45864 DocId: 32326277

Page 2

---

