# docid-32294464

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/26/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10213-10240

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

88-30913-8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEGAT, OT

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/22/1964

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LTR

v9.1

DocId: 32294464

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

5-02 (Rov-4-29-57)

To:

Director, FBI

Date:

(Bufile :

Attention -

10-22-64

From: Legal Attache, Ottawa

91-55

)

Title

JUEN CESAR GROSSI

A:D

Character UFAP-UNLAWFUL FLIGHT TU

AVOID GIVING TESTIMUNY

Reference

Letterhead memo dated 9-4-64,

at Albany.

Enclosed are the following communications received from the ECMP:

two copies of RCMP

latter dated 10-21-94

Original and

Remarks:

I CC:

Dissemination

May be made as received

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

May be made as indicated by stamp on enclosure

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

May not be made without further clearance with RCMP DATE 5/30/95 x 5668 OUL GAT

JFK)

Following offices would be interested in receiving copies of enclosures:

Albany; Dallas

Status with this office:

55 30913-8

= 22001=

DocId: 32298464

- RUC

Pending

4 - Bureau

(Enc.

MLI : jhc

BETCLOSURE

(40

8797 1. 01964

- MeT:

REC

8 OCT 26 1964

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Á- ¡ CORRESPONDENCE TO

BE ADDRESSED:

THE COMMISSIONER

OYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE.

OTTAWA 8, CANADA

TOUTE CORRESPONDANCE LOIT

ÈTRE ADRESSÉE COMME SUIT!

LE COMMISSAIRE

GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANAD

OTTAWA 8, CANADA

HEADQUARTERS- DIRECTION GÉNÉRALE

POUR NO.

LOTREN°

SUR NO.

VOTRE NO

57HQ-1180-1-Q-26

7

OTTAWA S, CANADA

October 21, 1964.

Mr:

Moss Lee Innes,

c/o

United States Embassy,

OTTAWA, Ontario.

Re: John Cesar GROSSI

Reference is made to your letter of September 11,

1964•

Dr. Herman L. TRACY, Classics Department, Mcliaster

University, Hamilton, Ontario was interviewed as requested.

He stated that on August 29, 1964, while visiting in

Kingston, Ontario,

he had occasion to hold a brief. con-

versation with GROSSI's wife, now Patricia inn (Hirs. Jack)

BOWEN, who resides at 36 Ellerbeck Street, Kingston.

2.

Dr. TRACY related his conversation with Mrs.

BOWEN and the only pertinent information regarding this

case is to the effect that GROSSI stayed at the Bruce

MacDonald Motor Hotel in Ottawa some time during the

summer of 1964 and left without paying his bill.

Dr. TRACY has not heard from GROSSI since he

was released from Kingston Penitentiary in 1960.

TRACY did state that an inmate of Dorchester Penitentiary,

Dorchester, New Brunswick, Ralph C. PARKS, had corresponded

with GROSSI following his

release from Kingston Penitentiary.

If other enquiries now being conducted fail to provide

results, we will attempt to have PARKS interviewed.

Local sources of information in the Hamilton area

including the Credit Bureau, local police forces, employ-

ment agencies, etc. were checked but it does not

appear.

that GROSSI is in that area at the present time.

5.

Enquiries continue and you will be further advised.

211

E.L. Martin,

Supt.,

Officer in Charge,

Criminal

88-30913

Investigation Branch.

Doc11 32294464 Pare 3

---

