# docid-32332665

## Page 1

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90103-10066

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2940-441

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

02/10/1965

2

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32332665

24

Page 1

---

## Page 2

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

•RM NO. 10

NED STATES GOVEKAMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

DIRECTOR,

FBI (92-2940)

DATE: 2/10/65

ATTN:

FBI

LABORATORY, ELECTRONICS SECTION

goM

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-226-Sub 2)

SUBJECT:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, aka

(00: PITTSBURGH)

According to criminal informants throughout the

United States, SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA 1s the head of

the Pittsburgh family of La Cosa Nostra. An Apalachin

attendee, who escaped the New York State Police dragnet,

L A ROCCA maintains a residence at Ingomar, Pa., from

which he directs his Pittsburgh operation and where

he is contacted by MIKE GENOVESE, who is number-one.

lieutenant in his organization, each weekend for personal

Instructions.

LA ROCCA has been under consideration for technical

coverage of his house since December, 1960. Since then it

has been deemed almost impossible to effect conventional

misur coverage of his house because he has a full-time.

maid and yardman who both reside on his premises and

who rarely, if ever, leave the premises.

However, in

January, 1961, Mutt coverage of

subject's office in his

North Star Cement Block Company, Pittsburgh, Pa., was

3

established but this coverage did not prove productive

and the coverage was discontinued. Due to the national

importance of this

subject, it 1s

deemed imperative that

every effort be made to establish technical coverage of

subject's residence in spite of the fact that the same

security conditions prevail.

In view of this dire need

for coverage, this office is tentatively considering the

technical feasibility of effecting REMT or Zam coverage.

For the Information and assistance of the Laboratory,

subject's telephone system, number 364-5296, consists of

- Bureau (RM)CC Electionia

- Pittsburgh

2124165

PET 2073-2949-444

HEW/Pjw

(3)

& FEB 132 1965

Get To P6 2/24/65

zillelines

SEVEN

NE

DocId: 32332665 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the "John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DI D

PG 92-220- Sub 2

one main, one wall, and one portable instrument, all

of the 500 series and all serviced by said telephone

number of, cable 6, pair 198.

This cable 1s an aerial

cable which terminates on telephone pole 6/3,

located

east of and adjacent to his house, on the east side

of Brant Avenue, Ingomar, Pa., where his working pair goes

underground and

Ingresses into his house. Pair 198

multiples on pole 5/6 on Lindsey Avenue, which parallels

Brant Avenue, at an approximate distance of 2, average-

lty blocks from subject's house, and this pair has no

additional multiples enroute to the Forest Central Office.

The case agent has several neighborhood sources in

the immediate vicinity of subject's house, any one of

who could provide the necessary space for

housing a suitably "alarmed" unit.

The wire-miles from

subject's house to the Forest Central Office, thence

to the Grant Central Office and into the Pittsburgh Office

Consolidate Plant is approximately 13 wire-miles.

8.6 miles of this cable runs between the Forest and

Grant Central Offices. The available pairs are of

19 gauge H88 facility, with load colls located every

1000 feet.

In the 300 - 3000 c/p/s voice range, the

db loss 1s 4.3 at a measured 1050 ohms maximum.

SA HAROLD LEE WILLIAMS has no available technical

information applying to the RFMT or Zam units and has

never had an opportunity to employ either unit.

Laboratory 1s requested to immediately advise whether

either unit can be successfully employed under the

above given technical considerations.

If so, the Laboratory

1s requested to additionally advise the nature of

the desired alarm system employed in securely housing

the RFMT unit. The above requests do not imply

authority to conduct a preliminary survey as they

are intended for technical elucidation only.

The

Laboratory is requested to expedite the above requested

information inasmuch as the subject is presently in

Florida for a few wegks and it is anticipated that

a survey and installation could reasonably be made

in the near future.

.

BEEN

2

DocId: 32332665 Page 3

---

