# docid-32291415

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10207-10191

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-12-398

Released under the Johr

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection et of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NM 45760 Date:

01-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

SAC, DL

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 02/04/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

CIP, AME, GAMBLING, FINANCES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 4;11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

V9.1

HH 45760

15

DocId: 32291415

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DL 94- 55A-SUB

concerning some

"oil deals" and when they were in Dallas,

DRISCOLL took them to a gambling house near Arlington operated

by MEADOWS and attempted to get them to play.

Both men claimed

There is a strong possibility that DRISCOLL,

through his

attempting to steer potential customers, preferrably oilmen,

to MEADOWS' crooked dice game at Arlington.

The above information was orally furnished to It.

JACK REVILL, Intelligence Section, Dallas PD, and Deputy BOB

MORGAN, Intelligence Section, Dallas SO on 2/1/63.

Re: JAMES HENRY DOLAN, aka.

(DL 92-292)

By airtel 1/29/63, the Denver Office advised information

had been received from two CI's that DOLAN had recently beer

in Denver associating with known gamblers MIKE PAULDINO, BOBBY

WOOLVERTON, BABE TATE, JESS RAYMOND BRIDWELL.

REVILL and Dep. MORGAN on 2/4/63.

The above information was orally furnished to It-

Re :

198 das

JAMES W. WINNINGHAM

(DY 165-14) DALLAS

(DL 165-14)

Chief of Police CHESTER

LEWIS, North Richland Hills,

-GearSe IN PART

(suburb of Fort Worth, Texas) advised SA JOSEPH M. MYERS on

2/1/63 that the license number of subject's car is 1962 Texas 8

FR 6924

LEWIS said subject came to his apartment one day this

week and left immediately. LEWIS said he would call the FBI the

next time he came in.

This car has been determined to be registered

at Henrietta, Texas, for a 1963 Oldsmobile.

Re: HENRY CLINTON WINFREY, aka.

IGA

(DL 162-95)

On 1/30/63, Bureau Agent observed WINFREY parking a

1961 Oldsmobile, Texas license HW 9555 in the area near 506}

North Edgefield®

(his bookmaking apartment).

This car is

registered to WINFREY's girl friend, DAISY LEE KELLY.

On

2/1/63, Bureau Agents observed this same car parked in the

same area.

On 1/31/63, RANDALL WINSTON, Assistant Chief of

Intelligence, IRs, Dallas,

3

62-912-398

•NH 45760 DocId:32291415 Page 2

ISTAL DENIAL

---

## Page 3

DL 94-55A-SUB

JFK Law TI(a)

possession, was

furnished to Lt. REVILL and Dep. MORGAN on

2/1/63.

Re: DAVE THOMAS

ITWI; ITWP

(DL 165-75)

On 1/28/63,

DL-141-C, stated he understands that

whenever someone replies

' to THOMAS' mimeographed letter indicating

an interest in THOMAS' handicapping information, that THOMAS

forwards the interested individual's letter on to someone in

Chicago and that the interested party is then dealt with directly

by the Chicago individual or organization.

Informant stated he

plans to send a letter to THOMAS at Post Office Box 295, Denton,

Texas, expressing an interest in THOMAS' handicapping informa-

tion in order to see if he is then contacted by letter Irom

someone in Chicago.

Re: CHARLES CLARENCE HILL

IGA

(DL 162-209)

On 1/28/63, DL-141-C advised that he overheard an

individual remark on 1/27/63 that he had to call his bookmaker

to get the results on a basketball game that was not shown in

the Sunday newspaper.

He stated this individual called off

the telephone number RI 1-441l as he dialed the number, and

that he feels sure the

subscriber to this number is engaged in

bookmaking.

The 1962 Criss Cross Telephone Directory for Dallas

reflects telephone RI 1-4411 is listed to the Ross Avenue Drug

Store at 2700 Ross Avenue, Dallas, Texas, which is known to

be operated by CHARLES CLARENCE HILL, who has previously been

reported to be a bookmaker.

4

629-12-398

'NH 45760 DocId:32291415 Page 3

---

