# docid-32327901

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90066-10142

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-2718-65

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HAVANA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: •11/24/1958

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

ANTHONY STROLLO

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

|PocId: 32327901

13

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Artif 1982ete&t 07 Note).

DATE 011-14-2017

BED CFFICES

¿STANDARD FORM NO. 84

ADVISED

PING

Office Merrindum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

SECR

TO

Director, FBI (92-2718)

DATE: November 24, 1958

CONFIDENTIAL

FROM :

Legat, Havana (92-33)

# 211,326

Classied by

Vege

SUBJECT:

Declasam

ANTHONY STROLLO, WaS.,

ANTI-RACKETEERING - TH

Reference Bureau cable 9/26, Havana cables 9/29,

10/1, 3, and Miami teletype 10/4/58, transmitting information

from Legat, Havana.

30,

Cataldo arrived in Havana

New York City at 6:45 p.m., September 28, 1958. Source saida

CATALDO was accompanied by

MARTIN H. METZ and that upon arrival

at the airport CATALDO and NEMETZ were met by

an individual named

JASR

"RAUL" who identified himself as a "policeman" in the service of

I RAFAEL, DIAZY SALART, a Cuban Congressman.

"RAUL" assisted CATALDO

and NEMETZ through Cuban customs and drove them in an official

2-way radio car to the Hotel Havana-Riviera in Havana.

Source

stated that upon arrival at the hotel CATALDO and NEMETZ had

difficulty in obtaining accommodations because of a convention

5668

at the hotel but that "RAUL" indicated that they were U. S. Senators

25X

JFK

who had come to Cuba at the invitation of RAFAEL DIAZ BALART and as

result they were furnished accommodations. f

Source informed that "RAUL" then telephonically contacted

Cuban Congressman DIAZ BALART and that DIAZ BALART arrived at the

6-5-97

CLASSIFIED BY

DECLASSIFY ON:

hotel at 7:45 p.m., on September 28, 1958. Source advised that

DIAZ BALART departed from the hotel at 8:10 p.m., the same date

and that at 8:45 p.m., CATALDO was observed to leave the hotel in

the official automobile which had been placed at his disposal.

Source stated that this automobile was subsequently observed to

be parked at the Hotel Havana-Hilton.

source n

that CATALDO

eturned to the fotel havana rasier tazrand a.m.

HOCV BE

TrAY 25 noted that caus

BEONERE®

fItheColticial car being

utilized

by

CATALDO,

mossiple to

maintain

surveillance on him

RIDEG 93

FRANCES

Nestember so, 1958,

2 - 2718

HA

advised that

65

M Congressman

RAFAEL DIAZ BALART

met

and

escorted tron, mancho!

Boyeros airpoliti

of Havana U.S:

Representative

VTEw0958.

MANFUSO and his wife, FRANCES.

oth Congressional

BALART had conquered

Enclosures - 2

Distill fairs he airport

at 11:30 a.m.,

Xww

40

Bureau

BONCH WHIT

5

DIB

(7)

Havana ly

158

THON c

20c

COME TeaMM

12÷4à

38 580

Doc

3231

7901

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11÷1462017

SEC

Havana 92-33

11-24-58

CONFIDENTIAL

September 28, 1958, and at that time made inquiry of airport officials

concerning JOSEPH CATALDO. HAV-4 stated he believed ANFUSO had

arrived in Havana from Tampa, Florida, aboard National Airlines

Ilight 301 using diplomatic passport. ()(As)

On September 29, 1958, Mx. T.

James Ennis, Manager,

Hotel Havana-Riviera (conceal), advised that CATALDO and NEMETE

were occupying suites 1814/15 in the hotel having registered on

September 28, 1958.

Mr. Ennis informed that NEMETZ made a long

distance telephone call on September 29, 1958, to "anybody" at

SH 3-0425, Long Island.

On September 30, 1958, Mr. John Topping,

Political Officer, American Embassy, advised that the Embassy was

aware of ANFUSO's arrival in Havana, that ANFUSO was a guest of

the Cuban Government, and that Cuban,

PrIme MInister GONZALO GUELL

Intended giving a luncheon for him. (KlM)

On September 30, 1958, Thomas J. Kelley, Resident Manager,

Hotel Nacional, advised that Colonel HUBERT F. JULIAN had resided in

room 823 from September 16 to 19, 1958.

The reservation for JULIAN

was made by Dr. DIAZ BALART.

JULIAN furnished an incomplete address

of 1630 Sedgewick Avenue, USA.

Mr. Kelley stated JULIAN made three

telephone calls during his stay at the hotel. The first call was a

local call and the number called was not known. The second call

was a collect call to "anybody" at Ludlow 3-8730, New York City, made

on September 18, 1958.. The third call was to Dr. Amadossi, Rome

telephone 1-a7206. This sall vas placed on septemust 15, loos diary,

On September 29, 1958,

John Topping, mentioned above,

made

available his file concerning RAFAEL LINCOLN DIAZ BALART.

IT SHOULD

BE NOTED THAT THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS FILE IS CONSIDERED

"CONFIDENTIAL."

cerning DIAZ BALART:

and attended the University of Havana, from which he graduated

as a lawyer.

He is the son of RAFAEL JOSE DIAZ BALART, who has

been a close friend of President FULGENCIO BATISTA since

childhood and who was at one time the head of the Retirement

Fund of the Shoeworkers Union, a member of the Cuban Cabinet,

and an Ambassador without Portfolio.

..2-

SEDRET CONFE" STAL'

dooge-101r

DocId: 32327901

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Havana 92-33

CONFIDENTIAL

SECT

11-24-58

RAFAEL LINCOLN DIAZ BALART Y GUTIERREZ in 1953 was

President of the Executive Council of the Juventud Acciona

Progresita and was a Sub-Secretary of the Ministry of

Interior. He was extremely active in 1953 in organizing

the Youth Movement in favor of President Batista. Before

that time he had been active in opposing the Government of

Ramon Grau San Martin. He is reported to have studied in

the United States, and one source indicated that he was a

Spanish professor

at Princeton University prior to his

return to Cuba in 1949. He is reported to have founded

the Partido Accion Unitaria in Banes together with his

father.

In 1954, he was elected to the Cuban House Of

Representatives from the Province of Oriente. He is

married to HILDA CABALLERO.

He joined the partido

Democrata in December,

1957(1 u)

Mr. Topping st

ated that DIAZ BALART is reputed to be a

close friend of ROLANDOYMASFERRER and "played footsies with the

Communists in his early youth." In this regard, the Embassy file

indicates that DIAZ BALART was a signer of the Stockholm Peace

Petition and a member of the "Comite Juvenil de Partidarios de la

Paz." MASFERRER is a "gangster-type" Cuban Senator (& (aL U)

HAV-4 informed on September 30, 1958, that Congressman

DIAZ BALART is generally considered to have a poor reputation and

that he is reputed to have engaged in gold smuggling activities in

the past.

Source noted, however, that the DIAZ BALART family are

reported to have a great deal of

influence with President BATISTA RM)

On September 30, 1958, I. James Ennis, mentionea above,

advised that MARTIN H. NEMETZ had previously been in Cuba in an

attempt to promote a cultural tour of New York teachers in Cuba.

Mr. Ennis stated he talked with NEMETZ on September 30, 1958, anc

NEMENZ indicated he was presently engaged in the promotion of ar

agricultural project with the Cuban Government.

NEMETZ indicated

"two American Congressmen were interested in the

same project. " (u)

On October 1, 1958, Mr. John Topping, mentioned above,

advised that Congressman ANFUSO was residing in room 1814 at the

Hotel

Havana-Hilton.

On October 2, 1958, Assistant Agricultural

Attache, James F. Gehr, American Embassy, Havana, advised that as

a normal rule any Congressmen coming to Cuba on official business in

connection with agricultural affairs inform the Department of

Agriculture prior to departing from the United States and then make

inociate contact with the agricultural ittanae upon arrival. (en)

-3- CONFIDENTIAL

RET

DocId: 32327901

Page 4

---

## Page 5

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE:

1T÷1492017

Havana 92-33

CONFDENTIAL

JAI SECRETICO

" 11-24-58

Mr. Gehr stated for this

sane was inclined to doubt is

Congressman Anfuso was

actually in Cuba on an agricultural matter,

since he had not done so

and

since he was a member of the House

Committee on Agriculture.

On October 3, 1958, T. James Ennis advised that JOSEPH "

CATALDO made a telephone call from the Hotel Havana-Riviera to

EN 2-9921, New York City, on October 1, 1958.

(*/M)

HAV-4 advised on October 6, 1958, that JOSEPH CATALDO

departed Havana for New York City on October 4, 1958, on National

Airlines flight 850. Source advised further that VICTOR ANFUSO

departed for New York City on National Airlines flight 850 on

october 5, 1958/* (M)

On October 7, 1958, HAV-4 informed that investigation

indicated that on September

28, 1958, VICTOR ANFUSO and some other

individuals had an informal party at

the swimming pool at the Hotel

Havana-Hilton where ANFUSO was residing.

Source said that sometime

after 8:30 p.m., two Americans arrived dressed in street clothing

and went up

"to ANFUSO's suite with ANFUSO.

Source stated in the

hotel these two individuals were referred to as "American Senators"

and had been escorted to the hotel in an official car. (K)M)

Source noted that it had not been possible to positively

identify CATALDO as having been one of the individuals who met

ANFUSO at the Hotel Hilton since the hotel employees were not able

to recall the exact appearance of these individuals

M)

On October 17, 1958, Mr. T. James Ennis furnished copies

of the registration cards completed by CATALDO and NEMETZ during

the time they stayed at the Hotel Havana-Riviera. These copies are

enclosed for forwarding by the Bureau to the New York office (Kin)

Additional inquiry among all sources

available to the

Havana office has failed to develop further information concerning

the purpose of CATALDO's trip to Havana.

Further inquiry has failed

to establish that SALVATORE GRANELLO

with alias,

in Havana during the time bI CATALDO's stay here.(AM) Carbu

Extra copies of this letter have been prepared for forwarding

by the Bureau to the New York (92-637), Miami (Information) and

Washington Field (Information) offices.

regaza la

-4-

CONDENTASE ET OOPP-1015

DocId: 32327901

Page 5

---

