# docid-32397470

## Page 1

Date: 12/18/98

Page:

1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

+00104-10433-10153

JFK

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53216 Date:

16-13-2017

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

CIA

AMERICANS ATTENDING THE WORLD PEACE COUNCIL (WPC) CONFERENCE IN

BUDAPEST,

HUNGARY, 13-16 MAY 1971

DATE

05/21/71

SUBJECTS

PACES

2

FAULKNER

CLASSIFICATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

OPEN IN FULL POSTPONED IN fULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/18/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

JFK-RH19: F09 1998.12.18.09:19:32:623128:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53216

DocId: 32397470

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1j- 2028

21 MAY 1971

SUBJECT: Americans Attending the World Peace Council

(WPC)

Confereace in Budapest, Hungary, 13-16 May 1971

Areliable source has reported that the following

¡sericans spole at the indicated committee meetings of the

KPC Conference:

A.

Stanley FAULKNER, Connittee on European Peace

•and Security;

B.: Syivia KUSHNER, Conmittee on Indochina Aggression;

C.. John GIlitAli, Connittee

on the Near East;

D-

Mary Angie DICKERSOY, Section Meeting Discussing

Discrimination;

E.: Luis CARZA,

Section Meeting Discussing Dis-

crimination; and

F. Ruth GAGE-COLBY, Committee on Disarmament.

112 Of the aboye-named persons-were identified specifically

as senDers of the U.S. delegation.

the sane source, S. FAULKIER, "Vice

President of the American National Lawyers'.

Association,

functioned as President in a

neeting of lawyer delegates

to the Congress and the American

delegate Albert KAHN

translated

a sessage fron the vidon of artist Rockell.

KENT to the Conference:

3.

In its final coverage on 18 May of the WPC Confer-

ence,

whach ended 16 May,

the

Hungarian Press made

the

folloring

additional observations ragarding United

Siates

participants:

Sidney PECK,

identified as "usa Professor,"

spoke on the rat in Vietnam;

*PROVED FOR RELEASE

at 10100078

338

•H 53216 DocId:32397470 Page 2

---

## Page 3

The MPC awarded the JOLIOT-CURIE GOLD MEDAL

posthumously to the. Reverend Martin Luther:

WALKER, an American peace fighter." A photo-

graph of the presentation ceremony

also included

Willian DOUTHARD and irs: Addie

WYATT. as U.S.

delegates to the Conference;

C.

U.S.

delegates. Ruth GAGE-COLBY and Sylvia

KUSHNER. spoke at a neeting of Indochinese and

American delegates; and

D.

Americans Herbert APTHEKEP and Cariton GOODLETT

were re-elected

to the Presidential Board of

the IPC.

For previous infornation on Subject, please refer

dated 14 May 1971.

Subject:

zitd

Please bagsait iply via.

•Originated by:

Bnsed.0am

i Have 65

Hungarian Fress

Source:

DistributIon:

Original

- FBI (Mr. Kannall) via

- $ memo chrono

extra

copy

and

COUTiEI

60966

Production

53216

DocId: 32397470

Page 3

---

