# docid-32308770

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10296-10098

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-2866-100

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MCSHANE, JAMES T.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/03/1961

PAGES:

86

SUBJECTS :

APR, TEAMSTERS UNION, ASSOC, BUSS, CRIM AND

GAMBLING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES IB-IF

v9.1

N₩ 45927

2

DocId: 32308770

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Repart Forml

FD-263 (Rev: 5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

MICHELINO CLEMENTE, aka

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/3/61 22/24/60 - 4/27/62

CHARACTER OF CAS

MC SHANE

TYPED BY

HIM

ANTI-RACKETEERING

th

REFERENCE

Report of SA JAMES T._MC SHANE, 12/22/60, NY.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Dally Investigation was conducted from 12/14/60 unt11

1/10/61, In effort to establish a highly confidential source at the

prisco Travel Bureau.

This source was developed on 1/10/61, and

contact since that date has been on a dally basis.

It 18 to be noted that NY I-1, NY I-2, NY T-14 and NY

T-29 are all identified as NY 3123-C*.

Four T-symbols were assigned

to this informant in order to aid in properly protecting this highly

valuable source. NY T-14 1s referred to as

'she" for the same

reason.

EXTREME CARE AND CAUTION SHOULD BE USED CONCERNING

INFORMATION FURNISHED BY NY 3123-C* AND IF THE INFORMATION IS USED

IN ANY MANNER, IT SHOULD BE PARAPHRASED SO AS NOT TO COMPROMISE THIS

VALUABLE INFORMANT.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Lopin

SPECIAL AGEN

IN CHARG

• Bureau

922866)

Albany

92-142)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2866-100

REC- 39

Chicago

Info)

Newark (92-936)

Phoenix (Info

MADE

San Juan

4

- new lon 32842 332

T FBIHQ BY

REQUEST.

MAY 5 1961

X-DU

REVIE

62-117290).

REC- 64

Ex. 113

471AV

I desTRic,

(SEE BUFILE

•COVER PAGE

•A

PROPER 6 MAY 4 1957 o you by the FBI, and neither it nor its conia, te are to be distributed outsideothe est)

ty to which loane

NW 45927 DocId:32308770 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-646

INFORMANIS

NY T-I

NY T-2

NY T-3

NY T-4

NY T-5

NY T-6

NY T-7

NY T-8

NY I-9

NY T-10

NY T-11

NY T-12

NY T-13

NY I-14

NY T-15

NY I-16

NY I-17

NY I-18

NY T-19

NY T-20

NY 3123-C*

NY 3123-C*

NY 842-C contacted by SA FRANK R. GERRITY.

NY 169-C contacted by SA PATRICK J.

MOYNIHAN

Deputy Chief Inspector JOHN J. BRADT, (NA)

NY 2412-C contacted by SA WILLIAM J. WATRY.

NY 842-C

" SA JOHN R. ANDERSON.

NY 204-0

It

"SA PAUL G. DURKIN.

WALTER DOUD, Senior Parole Officer, New

York State Parole, NYC.

AL-3036-C contacted by SA GEORGE P. SIMPSON.

AL-3005-C

"

NY 2171-C

"

" SA WARREN J. DONOVAN.

Not Used

NY 3123-C*

NY 913-C contacted by SA FREDERICK F. DALY.

JOSEPH PAPA, contacted by SA WILLIAM

VERICKER.

CSNY-1

Selective Service Headquarters, 516 west.

34th Street, NYC.

NY 184-C contacted by SA FREDERICK P. DALY.

SA PAUL G. DURKIN.

PCI, contacted by

COVER PAGE

OTHER 4

NMA 28927

DocId: 32308770 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-646

INFORMANIS (Cont'a)

NY T-21

NY T-22

NY T-23

NY T-24

NY T-25

NY T-26

NY T-27

NY I-28

NY T-29

NY T-30

PH 591-C*

CG 6349-C*

JOSEPH KATZ, Chief Investigator,

New York State Crime Commission,

contacted by SA JOHN J. DIXSON.

NY 204_C contacted by SA ARMAND A.

CAMMARATA.

PCI, contacted by

SA JAMES T.

MC SHANE.

SA JOHN B. SHED. PCI, contacted by

NY 2305-C contacted by SA WILLIAM VERICKER.

Pretext call to office of CARLTON R. SICKLE,

Washington, D. C., by SA WILLIAM C. CARROLL,

2/10/61.

NY 3123-6*

PCI, contacted by

SA FRANK R. GERRITY.

NY T-31

NY 2467-C contacted by SA DANIEL RYAN.

NY T-32

NY 3104-C contacted by SA MAX R. FRITSCHEL.

Careful consideration has been given to the sources con-

cealed as T-symbols are utilized in this report only in Instances

where the identity of the sources must be concealed.

LEADS

CHICAGO, PHOENIX, SAN JUAN (Information)

One copy each being furnished above offices since these

offices have conducted investigations in this case.

COVER PAGE

OTHER 4

W/ 45927 DocId:32308770 Page 4

---

## Page 5

-6-

NY 92-646

NY T-12 advised that JOSEPH LIVOTI is a well known

NY T-4 advised on September 26, 1954, that JOHN

ODDO, whom he has known for thirty years, has always been

a "combination' man and one of the biggest men in the gambling

setup of the Bath Beach Section of Brooklyn.

VY T-1, on January 17, 1961, advised that the

subject was in contact with an

individual known as CHARLEY

BANANAS. NY I-I indicated that the subject, while with

BANANAS, made reference to TONY ANASTASIA and referred to

ANASTASIA as the "Czar." NY T-I stated that he ascertained

that the subject Is involved in some activity on Pier 5,

N.4.

!'.

that when he recently saw CARMINEALOMEARDOZZI, 'and LOMBARDOZZI

got pale.

My I-1 was unable to ascertain what effect the

subject had on LOMBARDOZZI at that time.

CARMINE LOMBARDOZZI,

Federal Bureau of

Investigation Number 290869, was born in Brooklyn, New York,

on February 8, 1913. He attended the Apalachin meeting on-

November 14, 1957.

ANTHONY ANASTASIA 1S the Vice President of the.

International Longshoremen's Association and brother of

'ALBERE ANASTASIA "(deceased)..

NY T-1 stated that he had received information

that CHARLEY BANANAS was receiving money from the c. C.

Lumber Company, but could not furnish any further information

in this matter.

-13-

NH 45927 DocId:32308770 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NY 92-646

NY T-14 continued on February 20, 1961, that

apparently BOB and TONY went to see MC CARTHY and MC CARTHY

agreed to give them a charter to organize various bowling

alleys in Queens and Brooklyn, New York. CLEMENTE stated

that when BO3 and TONY went to see MC CARTHY, MC CARTHY

indicated he would give them the charter providing that he,

MC CARTHY, would receive the ads for the advertising journal

put out by his union. MC CARTHY indicated to BOB and TONY,

according to CLEMENTE, that they could have the membership

money and that they could pay this money into the international

union, but he was mainly interested in obtaining the ads

for his advertising journal. CLEMENTE commented that when

BOB and TONY left MC CARTHY's office, JOE CURLY was waiting

outside and that, at that time, CURLY indicated that he was

MC CARTHY's partner. CLEMENTE made the observation that

CURLY did not agree that MC CARTHY should have given these

individuals the charter for the union and this came to a head

about nine months after these two individuals started to

organize. CLEMENTE stated that PROFACI's men started to

organize a place on Long Island or in Queens and that the owner

happened to be a friend of JIMMY DOYLE. CLEMENTE made the

eAt that these attal to gate, bos pretable

the bowling alley that i'?

EMIL LENTZ, who, CLEMENTE stated, was a friend of JIMMY DOYLE.

NY T-S on March 10, 196%

, advised S.. WILLIAM A.

VERICKER that JIMMy DOYLE iS

JAMES PLUMERI, a racketeer

with numerous connections in the underworld and unions in the

New York City area.

NY I-30 advised on February 20, 1961, that EMIL

LENTZ is a front man for JIMMY DOYLE,who has opened several

bowling alleys in Queens, New York. CLEMENTE stated that DOYLE

sent for BOB and TONY and, with JOE CURLY and JACK MC CARTHY,

started to talk over this situation. CLEMENTE made the

observation that DOYLE immediately wanted to know what right

these individuals had to organize the bowling alley.

- 55 -

NW 45927 DocId:32308770 Page 6

---

## Page 7

NY 92-646

According to CLEMENTE, PROFACI's men stated they had a charter

that they received nine months ago from JACK MC CARTHY.

CLEMENTE related that, at this point, CURLY jumped up and ordered

REACT men were set and mediately let tate ecting and

went back to PROFACI to explain whac had happened.

CLEMENTE made the observation that PROFACI did not

trust CURLY or DOYLE and apparently had a very oid grievance

against DOILE. CLEMENTE theorized that this grievance dated

back to the time that DOYLE was working for LUCHESE while

in the garment center and surmised that JOSEPH MAGLIOCCO was

Involved in some dealings with DoYiE.

JOSEPH MAGLIOCCO is the brother-in-law of JCSEPH

PROFACI and attended the Apalachin meeting.

CLEMENTE stated that PROFACI asked him to straighten

out this matter and CLEMENTE indicated that he believed that

he could get along with DOYLE, According to CLEMENIE, he,

CLEMENTE, arranged a meeting between BOB, TONY and JACK

MC CARTHY. Prior to this meeting, CLEMENTE stated that he

had determined that BOB and TONY shared an office with

MC CARTHY, but the charter for the newly organized bowling

alleys was in MC CARTHY's office.

At the meeting, CLEMENTE indicated that he asked

MC CARTHY if these fellows had a charter. When he established

that MC CARTHY gave them a charter, CLEMENTE Insisted that the

charter be given to them outright and moved to their office.

CLEMENTE stated that MC CARTHY was in agreement with this

move.

CLEMENTE expressed the opinion that he liked

MC CARTHY and that MC CARTHY was an honest man to do business

with. He stated that MC CARTHY's only worry in this matter was

- 56 .

NH 45927 DocId: 32308770 Page 7

---

## Page 8

NY 92-646

stated that when he questioned MC CARTHY about his association

with CURLY, MC CARTHY indicated that a lot of people say that

although this is not true, he shares various ventures with CURLY.

fifty percent of the profits derived from the advertisements

CLEMENTE stated that after he and MC CARTHY were

in complete agreement he invited MC CARTHY to have a drink with

him and ascertained that MC CARTHY at that time was a little

worried that JOE CURLY would be highly suspicious if he knew

that he, MC CARTHY, and CLEMENTE were talking. CURLY,

according to CLEMENTE, would not be to much concerned about

the organization of the bowling alleys, but would be worried

that CLEMENTE and MC CARTHY would be talking about IZZY

SCHWARTZ. CLEMENTE assured MC CARTHY that he had no intarest

at this time in IZZY SCHWARTZ, and, as far as CLEMENTE was

concerned, this ended the particular dealings with MC CARTHY.

On March 9, 1961, SAS WILLIAM A. VERICKER and

JOHN R. KINSINGER interviewed HARRY DISTIER, Day Manager,

Woodhaven Lanes, 7225 Woodhaven Boulevard. DISTLER advised

that his employer, EMIL LENTZ, was at the present time

discussing the possibility of organizing the bowling alley

which he, LENTZ, owns. He advised that a representative of

Local 3108, Bowling Alley Employees, AYL-CIO, 165 West 46th

Street, Room 502, New York City, had contacted the employees

of the Woodhaven Lanes concerning union affiliations. He

advised that the president of this union was NICK SANTIAGO,

home telephone number TW 4-1420.

Investigation at the building, 165 West 46th Street,

New York City, Indicates that there was no Local 3108 listed

in the lobby directory. Located on the deor of Room 502 were

- 57 -

HW 45927

DocId: 32308770

Page 8

---

## Page 9

NY 92-646

on March 10, 1961, SA WILLIAM DAVID KANE

telephonically contacted JOSEPH MAGLIOCCO and MAGLIOCCO

advised him that for the past three weeks he had been i

suffering from a bleeding ulcer.

March 20, 1961, by SAS NORMAN A. MURRAY, JR. and WILLIAM

DAVID KANE, and, during a general discussion concerning

his health, he advised that he had been suffering from

stomach trouble complicated by a heart condition.

a month at to

added that his wife suffered

a slight heart attack about

It is noted that the date of this heart

attack coincides with information previously furnished.

on March 14, 1961, NY T-32 advised that in a

iscussion with one ANTHONY CARJULIA, whom NY T-32 described

as an associate of JOSEPH GALLO, CARJULIA indicated that

the GALLO brothers were in a social club at 74 President

Street, Brooklyn, New York, on March 9, 1961. He stated

was known to him that three were given particularly high

nonors by the GALLOS.

He stated that one of these three

is known as "PUNCHY " (FRANK ILLIANO).

NY T-2, on March 9, 1961, advised that the

subject indicated to him that he had a meeting with

AL CAPONE.

Subject said that CAPONE is apparently

satisfied

in forming a corporation with JOE SCHIPANI

and CLEMENTE.

CAPONE, according to CLEMENTE, had a few

accounts in mind, specifically mentioning super markets

as being excellent accounts. CLEMENTE made comment

that CAPONE knew one individual who was netting $6,000.00

a month on super market accounts.

On the same date, CLEMENTE indicated that he

was in contact with an individual by the name of NICK (LNU).

According to CLEMENTE, NICK, at one time, operated 13

horse rooms with individuals by the name of JOEY and JERRY.

CLEMENTE was amazed when it was established that NICK

only made $200.00 a week out of these horse rooms, since

a quarter of a million dollars a year, from 1941 to 1950,

passed through their hands.

indicated that he got all of JOEY's headaches, such as

handling the politicians, police, and customers in the

operation of the horse rooms. CLEMENTE also made comment

that NICK apparently had visited the Casa Bianca and was

-69-

N₩ 45927

DocId: 32308770

Page 9

---

## Page 10

- 10 -

NY 92-646

very much dissatisfied with RALPH RUSSO, who is apparently

running this restaurant.

to CLEMENTE,

spend about

trai all the individuals who are accending

on March 10, 1961, NY T-2 advised that the

subject was in contast with two individuals, one named

MurLE (LNU) andthe other MOISHE (LNU).

VY I-12 advised on March 13, 1961, that MOISH

XBIOLANSKY is also known as MOISHE

and 1s described as a

known bookmaker and shylock in the Brooklyn area.

CLEVENTE commented that the aforementioned

individuals, along with JOSEPH LIVOTI and JOHN ODDO, are

all in the shylocking business and may be operating as a

unit, revealed NY T-2.

set-up in the Bath Beach Section of Brooklyn.

CLEMENTE stated that these individuals came to

him about a number of "dead loans" that were involved in

their dealings with LIVOTI and ODDO.

CLEMENTE indicated to NYT2

that the "dead loans" were persons who were not paying

on time.

CLEMENTE stated that it would be better if MoIShe

went to LIVOTI about these people.

He indicated that if

LIVOTI gave them (MIITIE and MOISHE) a

run around, they

shouldtell LIVOTI to see him (the subject).

CLEMENTE

stated that he intended to break this operation up in May

and that he, MOISHE, and MILTIE would operate together.

-70-

HW 45927

DocId: 32308770

Page

10

---

