# docid-32283876

## Page 1

In Reply, Please Refer lo

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Antonio, Texas

October 17, 1964

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

SEROINA.

UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 21194

9803200/80.

JFKC)

MOHAMED LAKMIRI

On Ostober 16, 1964

the Merican Consud,

• HERBERTO SPIDOLA, SeCRetary to

san Antonid, Texas, advised

the san Antonio

Office of

the Federal Bureau o.

Investigation that an unknown

French male listing his home as Morocco, had been trying for

some time to mate an appointment to speak with the consul

On the morning of October 16, 1964, this individual

came

to. the Consulate and

spoke with the librarian who made an

appointment with this man to speak with the consul at 11 aom.

This man, according to the librarian, said he had some information

concerning LES HARVEY OSWALD thai he

wanted to pass on to the

Mexican Consul General.

According to the librarian, this

man was dressed in a

uniform, but she did not know what sort of uniform it was.

The man

had left his name writter on a small note pad, but his

writing was illegible and no one nad been able to determine

his identity

On October 17, 1964, JOSE INES CANO, the Consul

General, Merican Consulate, 127 Navarro, San Antonio, Texas

advised a Special Agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation

that MOHAMED WAKMIRI was presently in his office and stated he

wanted political asylum in Mexico because he feared to state

any of his political views here in the United States.

Mr. CANO advised

that he felt LAKMIRI was mentally

sick and

needed psychiatric attention,

Mr, CANÒ further advised that on two previous occasions

he has received letters from LAKMIRI written in the french .

105-82553°

ENCLOSURE

horan

5th vip ofte, 5157

enel.

NW 55538 DocId: 32283876

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MOHAMED LAKMIRI

language. In the first letter, LAKMIRI mentions the name of

OSWALD in a very nebulous way..

In the second letter,

LAKMIRI again mentions in his letter that he was destined

to play a role like the OSWALd role.

MI. CANO further

advised that both letters were rambling and made very

little sense.

While LAKMIRI was at the Mexican

Consulate,

CANO suggested to him that he talk to a representative

of the U.S. Government.

According to Mr. CANO, LAKMIRI

refused to talk to any representative of the U.

So Government

because he feels that everyone in the United States and

everyone at Lackland Air Force Base (AFB) is against him.

On October 17, 1964, MI. BILLY HO CUNNINGHAM,

Special Agent, Office of

Special Investigation, Lackland

AFB, Texas; advised that records at Lackland AFB reflect

that MOHAMED LAKMIRI is an Aviation Cadet with the

Moroccan Air Force, Service Number 4070 MOR on Special

Orders 152 at Lackland AFB dated August 84, 1964 10

train for fifteen weeks in language training and

fifty-five weeks in flight training

Mr. CUNNINGHAM

furnished the following description which was oblained

from the records at Lackland AFB:

Date of Birth:

1939 no month or day

shown

Place of Birth:

‹No place indicated

Height:

50898

weight:

154 pounds

Hair:

Brown

Eyes:

Brown

Medical records at Lackland AFB, Texas,

according to MI. CUNNINGHAM, reflect that on

September 29, 1964; LAKMIRI

went to wilford Hall

Hospital complaining of poor sleeping habits, pain

in his throat, and difficulty in breathing

A note

on these records indicates the

patient himself said he

would like to stay in the hospital for a few days

("because I don't sleep very well"y

Mr. CUNNINGHAM advised that on October 12, 1964,

Special Orders MC 745 were issued by the Secretary of

• 2=

NW 55538 DooId: 32283876

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MOHAMED LAKMIRI

the Air Force and stated that LAKMIRI was invited to

depart on October 18, 1964, from. Lackland AFB, to New

York City, reporting not later than 7:15 p.Ms

October

18, 1964,

to the John fo Kennedy International Airport

for departure to his homeland, Rabat, Morocco, departing

at 9:15 pomo, October 18, 1964, aboard Pan American

Airlines Flight 152.

On October 17, 1964, at 2:33 Pomos Mro LUIS

Mo BENAVIDES, Agent in Charge,

Uo So Secret

Services

San Antonio, was furnished the above information

On October 1% 19640 at 4:10 pm, Mro.

ERWIN MEURIN, Immigration and

Naturadization Service,

San Antonio, Texas,

was furnished the

above information.

Subsequently, on October 17, 1964, ME. BILLY

Họ CUNNINGHAM, SUDra,

advised LAKMIRI was admitted this

date at: Wilford Hall

Hospital and is presently in the

Psychiatric Ward and is being examined.

He is under Airy

Police guard.

MI. CUNNINGHAM stated that LAKMIRI had

become violent and was given a sedative.

ME. CUNNINGHAM related that hospital authorities

are now trjing to make arrangements to have him evacuated

by air to the East Coast and then to his home in Morocco.

It is not known when these arrangements will be completed

and

_when the examination

will be finished

ME CUNNINGHAM

stated that LAKMIRI was in no condition to be interviewed

at this time.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and

is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to

be distributed outside your agency.

= 3=

NW 55538 DocId: 32283876

Page 3

---

