# docid-32184565

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10240-10275

RECORD_SERIES:

SA

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 105-2909-921

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NUT 53025 Date:

05-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

GEMBERLING. ROBERT P.

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/08/1964

PAGES: 275

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

SEE FBI 105-82555-5061

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

07/26/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53025

DooId: 32184565

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-883 (Rer 51-38)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

10/3/64

2/24/64 - 10/6/64

REPORT MADE DY

ROBERT P. GEMBERLING

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

jtf

IS - R - CUBA

REFERENCE :

Report of SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING dated 9/19/64, at

Dallas.

ENCLOSURES :

TO THE BUREAUS

Enclosed herewith and attached to appropriate copies of

this report for the Bureau are two photographs each of Exhibit

D-251 and three copies each of Exhibits C-323 and C-324.

The two photographs of Exhibit D-251 and two coples

each of Exhibits C-323 and C-324 are listed as enclosures for the

President's Commission or its designated representative in the

body of this report with those copies being attached to the copies

of the report that are designated as President's Commission or its

designated representative copies.

SPECIAL AGENT

IN

CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

2404

421

10 - Bureau (105-82555) (Enc. 8) (RM)

1 - New Orleans (100-16601) (Info) (RM)

*- San Antonio (105-2909) (Info)

LS ARCED

(RM)

4 - Dallas (100-10461)

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

NOTATIONS

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD..

HOW FWD.

aY..

HW 53025

DocId: 32184565 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 100-10461

The Bureau's attention is called to the fact that by

Bureau letter dated September 10, 1964, only three photographic

copies of Exhibit D-251 were forwarded to Dallas, with instructions

to be handled as exhibits had been handled previously. In view

of the fact that only three coples were furnished Dallas rather

than the usual four, Dallas is retaining one copy in its f1leg

and the two enclosed herewith are being considered as copies for

the President's Commission or its designated representative.

The Bureau may desire to remove the enclosure page of

this report iif. it ile dissentnated to agencies other than the

President's Commission or 1ts designated representative.

LEADS &

All leads in this case have been set forth by teletype or

alrtel in the past and are not being restated herets. Requests

for investigation and allegations are still being received and are

being investigated promptly and will be continued to be reported

in captioned matter.

NEW ORLEANS and SAN ANTONIO: (INFORMATION)

One copy of this report 1s being furnished each of the

New Orleans and San Antonio Offices for information in view of the

extensive investigation conducted in those divisions.

INFORMANTS:

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

DI T-] is MM 639-S, who was

contacted on November 11, 1963,

by the Miant Office•

FILE WHERE LOCATED

Instant report, page 212,

per information contained in

Miami letter to Dallas dated

12/9/63 in the matter captioned

"LORAN EUGENE FALI, akas WIILIAN

HOUSTON SEYMOUR, - NEUTRALITY

MATTERS", Serial 7 of Dallas file

2-68.

-B-,

(COVER PAGE)

1H 53025

DocId: 32184565

Page 3

---

