# docid-32288368

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI,

124-10199-10144

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-190

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/18/1961

PAGES:

.4

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ASSOC, EMPLOYMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32288368

Page 1

151

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kegnedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 141 USC 2107 Motel.

DATE" 11-11-2017

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Parsons-

FEDERAL BURLAU OF IN.ECTIGATIUN

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APR 1 81868

Mr. Mohr...-

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Callahan_

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach_

Mr. Evansk

TE

Mr. Malone-

Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter..

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room-

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

URGENT 4-18-61

8-28

PM CLM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

Tile

FROM/SAC, CHICAGO 192-3731 3P

GUS

ALEX, AKAO ARO DAILY SUMMARY.

CÓ SIX TWO SEVEN TWO DASH C ADVISED THAT GUS ALEX CONTINUES TO BE

THE BOSS OF THE LOOP AREA FOR THE OUTFIT AT CHICAGO. HE STATED THAT

ALEX CONTROLS

ALL GAMBLING IN THE LOOP AREA AND ON THE NEAR WEST SIDE

AND NEAR SOUTH SIDE. HE STATED THAT DIRECTLY UNDER ALEX IN CONTROL

OF GAMBLING IN THE LOOP IS LOUIE BRIATTA. HE STATED THAT AT THE -

PRESENT TIME BRIATTA HAS FIVE OR SIX OFFICES IN THE LOOP AREA ALTHOUGH

ONLY ONE OF THESE OFFICES IS IN OPERATION AT ONE TIME. HE STATED

THAT ONE OF THESE OFFICES WAS AT ONE EIGHT ZERO NORTH WACKER DRIVE

AND THAT THIS OPERATION WAS RECENTLY RAIDED BY THE

CHICAGO POLICE DEPARTMENT. HE STATED THAT BRIATTA HAS NOW MOVED

HIS OPERATION FROM THAT LOCATION TO ANOTHER UNKNOWN LOCATION IN THE

LOOP.. HE STATED THAT BRIATAX LOS THESE

OFFICES

AS HIS HEADQUARIERSO

TO CONTROL ALL ORGANIZED

GAMBLING WHICH IS DONE I

GUS ALEX. INFORMANT STATED THAT EVERY BOOK IN THE AREA CONTROLLED

BY ALEX MUST CALE

IN EACH BET AS IT IS ACCEPTED BY THE BOOKMARER AND

END PAGE ONE

In

58 APR 261961

« Staffild

DocId: 32288368 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Rote) .

-DATE: 11-11-2017

PAGE TWO

CUT THE OUTFIT INTO FIFTY PERCENT OF THE PROFITS OR LOSSES ON EACH

BET• HE STATED THAT BRIATTA/S OFFICE ALSO RECEIVES BETS DIRECTLY

FROM SOME BETTERS WHO ARE WELL KNOWN TO BRIATTA AND WHO FREQUENTLY

BET CONSIDERABLE AMOUNTS OF MONEY. INFORMANT ADVISED THAT BRIATTA

MAS TWO EMPLOYEES WHO OPERATE IN A SUPERVISORY CAPACITY IN HIS OFFICE.

ONE OF THESE INDIVIDUALS KNOWN TO INFORMANT IS QUOTE MOUSIE ENQUOTE

AND THE OTHER INDIVIDUAL IS KNOWN TO INFORMANT ONLY AS QUOTE KLUTZ

ENQUOTE. HE STATED THAT MOUSIE IS CHARGED WITH SUPERVISION OF

INDIVIDUALS WHO ANSWER THE TELEPHONES AND THAT IS HIS RESPONSIBILITY

TO LAYOFF BETS WHEN THE BRIATTA ORGANIZATION BECOMES QUOTE OVERBAL -

ANCED QUOTE ON ONE HORSE OR ON ONE TEAM IN SPORTING EVENTS SUCH AS

BASEBALL, BASKETBALL OR FOOTBALL. HE SAID THAT IN THIS EVENT MOUSIE

GENERALLY WOULD LAYOFF WITH ANOTHER OUTFIT SUCH AS THE ORGANIZATION

OF RALPH PIERCE ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF CHICAGO. CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE

DASH C ADVISED THAT THE SERVICE FOR HANDICAPPING HORSES WOULD

BE THE MORNING RACING SHEETS. HE STATED THAT THESE SHEETS ARE

NECESSARY FOR THE BOOKMAKERS BECAUSE IT IS THEIR REGULAR BOOKKEEPING

SHEETS• HE STATED THAT IT IS THESE SHEETS THAT THE BOOKMAKERS HAVE

TO SHOW TO THE OUTFIT HEADQUARTERS THROUGH INDIVIDUALS LIKE MOUSIE

END PAGE TWO

DocId:32288368 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Mote).

DATES, 11-14-2017

PAGE THREE

AND BRIATTA SINCE IT INDICATES BY NOTATIONS PLACED ON THE SHEETS BY

THE BOOKMAKERS HOW MUCH MONEY THEY BOOKED ON A DAILY OR WEEKLY BASIS.

INFORMANT STATED THAT THE BOOKIES KEEP THESE SHEETS ON A DAILY BASIS

AND THAT THESE SHEETS ARE THEN PICKED UP AND THEN GO BACK TO THE

HEADQUARTERS OF THE OUTFIT. HE STATED THAT HE DID NOT KNOW MOUSIE/S

LAST NAME BUT THAT HE KNEW HE WAS VERY CLOSE TO BRIATTA AS WELL AS

BEING LIKED BY SAM GIANCANA AND TONY ACCARDO. HE STATED THAT GUS

ALEX HAS TO LIKE MOUSIE BECAUSE OF GIANCANA AND ACCARDO. CG SIX

TWO SEVEN TWO DASH C FURTHER ADVISED THAT KLUTZ TOOK OVER HIS DUTIES

WHEN SID FRASIN ABSCONDED WITH A GREAT DEAL OF BRIATTA/S MONEY LAST

SUMMER. HE STATED THAT AS FAR AS HE KNOWS FRASIN HAS NOT BEEN HEARD

FROM SINCE. HE STATED THAT IT IS THE FUNCTION OF KLUTZ TO EXERCISE

CONTROL OVER ALL THE INDIVIDUAL BOOKMAKERS PRESENTLY OPERATING IN

ALEXS DISTRICT. KLUTZ MAKES THE COLLECTION FROM THESE BOOKMAKERS

AND CONTROLS OTHER INDIVIDUALS WHO TAKE MEASURES TO INSURE THAT EACH

BET IS CALLED INTO THE BRIATTA ORGANIZATION AS IT IS ACCEPTED BY THE

BOOKMAKERS. ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

END AND ACK

9-39 PM OK FBI WA

NM

TU DISC

DocId: 32288368 Page 4

---

