# docid-32302556

## Page 1

| Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10282-10068

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2914-171

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/11/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

GM, SMO, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, BACHELOR CLUB

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32302556

67

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released wider the Joln F. Kennedy Assassination ReCords Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LIVAL BUREAU OF IIVESINCANFON

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUL1 1 1961

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Mi. Callahan

Vr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr.

EvansAR

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

URGENT

7-11-61

1-50 PM

TGH

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-29141 192-29181

PITTSBURGH /92-2361 X/92-2281 2P

GABRIEL

MANNARINO, AKA, AR, SAMUEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR. PG

SIX ONE FIVE DASH C HAS ADVISED THAT NIGHT OF JULY EIGHT DASH

NINE LAST, THERE WERE MORE OF THE GAMBLERS FROM PITTSBURGH

AND NEW KENSINGTON, PA., PRESENT AT THE MANNARINO CONTROLLED

BACHELORS CLUB, NEW KENSINGION, THAN HE HAS SEEN ALL AT ONCE

IN MANY MONTHS® AMONG THOSE PRESENT WAS ONE PETE LNU, AGE

EARLY FORTIES, FIVE FEET NINE INCHES, MUSCUALR BUILD, BALD TOP

AND DARK HAIR FRINGE AND WELL DRESSED. PETE GREETED NEW

REG- 4

ARRIVALS AT THE CLUB WITH EMBRACE AND KISS. HE WAS

BY YOUNG ATTRACTIVE BLONDE GIRL WHOM HE MAULED AND PINCHED AL JUL 12 1961

EVENING. PETE CARRIED THIRTY TWO CALIBER PISTOL IN JACKET

POCKET. FOOD AND DRINKS HE ORDERED WERE ON THE HOUSE. AT

TIMES PETE DISPLAYED VICIOUS TEMPER AND GAVE SOME INDICATIONS / CC

0.710

OF USE OF NARCOTICS. MANNARINOS NOT PERSONALLY PRESENT BUT

WERE REPRESENTED

BY LIEUTENANTS. ON JULY TEN LAST, PG SIX ONE

• XEROX

END PAGE ONE

55 JUL 17 1961

JUL: 13 1961

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

his

2-9918-

-171

DocId: 32302556 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

FIVE DASH C VIEWED PHOTOS FROM TH ALBUM AND SAID THAT PHOTO

OF ANTONIO ROCCO CAPONIGRO, AKA, FBI NUMBER THREE EIGHT NINE

FIVE SIX ONE, RESEMBLED PETE IN MANY RESPECTS BUT HAD TOO

MUCH HAIR ON TOP. BOTH SUBJECTS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED

AND DANGEROUS NEWARK ADVISED BY MAIL COPY•

END AND ACK PLS

WA 1-57 PM OK FBI WA NM

TU DISC

DocId: 32302556 Page 3

---

