# docid-32423704

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/16/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

OSD

195-10005-10021

RECORD SERIES: MCNAMARA PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Released under the John

•. Kennedu

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 54214 Date:

09-11-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

OSD

FROM:

BRIG. GEN. LANSDALE

TO :

SPECIAL GROUP (AUGMENTED)

TITLE :

CONTINGENCY PLAN

DATE: 07/31/1962

PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

CONTINGENCY PLANS - CUBA

OPERATION MONGOOSE

UNITED STATES CONTINGENCY PLAN NO. 2, CUBA

US MILITARY INTERVENTION - CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: REVIEW COMPLETE.

COMMENTS :

McNamara Papers, Box 86 (42), Mongoose. Memo from Lansdale to Special Group (Augmented) re:

contingency plan for military intervention in Cuba.

v9.1

NW 54214

DocId: 32423701

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET SPECIAL HANDLING NOFORN

6(1(C)

b. Department of Defense Operations.

(1) When directed by higher authority, or as the

situation demands, the Department of Defense will

initiate preparatory actions for US military inter-

vention in Cuba. These

actions may include pre-

positioning forces and equipment by execution of

current cover and deception plans.

(2) Upon final decision of the President,

the Joint

Chiefs

of Staff

will direct execution of military

intervention plans for Cuba.

(3) In concept, initial military operations commence

with a blockade, concentrated air strikes and coordi-

nated Naval gunfire to effect destruction of enemy

air power and to neutralize and destroy as much

as

possible of the enemy tank, armor, artillery, ana

anti-air capability.

(a) In western Cuba airborne and amphibious

assaults will be conducted by a Joint Task Force

wi.th

the initial objective of seizing the city

of Havana and obtaining control over the seat of

government.

Army airborne units will secure the

major airfields in the area

as well as major port

areas required for follow-on forces and logistic

: resupply. Navy/Marine amphibious forces will

secure a beachhead in the vicinity of Havana and

designated. Army units will follow the Marines over

the beach. The Marine amphibious forces will be

prepared

to

re-embark for further operations

25

directed

(b) In eastern Cuba, Guantanamo will be re-

inforced by

air- and sea-lifted Marines for defense

9

No sa21s DoozaT:0.P. SECRET

SPECIAL HANDLING NOFORN

---

## Page 3

IDP SECRET SPECIAL HANDLING

NUURN

of the base. Additional Navy/Marine amphibious

forces will be employed in operations against Cuban

forces in the Santiago de Cuba complex or in other

operations in eastern Cuba as directed. /

(4) /subsequant to the seizure of Havana and San-

tiago and the successful defense of Guantanamo,

operations will be conducted to defeat remaining

pockets of resistance.

Additional amphibious and

airborne operations may be required. The most likely

areas for such operations are: Matanzas, Nuevitas,

Nicaro, Trinidad, Bahia de Cochinos, and the

Isle of

Pines

(5) 'At such time as essential US military control

is gained in Cuba, matters of civil affairs and mili-

tary government will be given priority and undertaken

in accordance with policy established by the Department

of State.

This includes provision for a provisional

military government prepared to assume full legislative,

executive, and judicial control until such functions

can be turned

over to other authority on direction in

an expeditious and orderly manner. Remaining resistance

elements of

the Communist Cuban government, armed forces

or other

groups will be isolated, contained and destroyed

or captured

as

rapidly as possible. US military combat

units will be scheduled for early return to the United

States consistent with security considerations.

c. Department of State Operations.

(1) Phase I. The Department of state will seek to

place the United States in as broad a multilateral

context as possible.

(a) Immediately sound out latin American

Governments to determine whether the United States

can count upon a 2/3 majority decision authorizing

the use of nilitary forces under Article 6 of

the Rio Treaty.

HH 54214

10

Doora: TO Pos SECRET SPECIAL HANDLING NOFORN

---

