# docid-32312321

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10324-10070

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 157-20136-2

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Masassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :NU 53130 Date:

05-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LA

10: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/04/1971

'PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS:

ED BUTLER AND THE INFORMATION COUNCIL OF THE

AMERICAS (INCA)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

v9.1

HH 53130

DocId: 32312321

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ESTIONAL FORM NO. 10

a in MAY 1862 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES C

FERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

:DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 5/4/71

FROM

SAC, LOS ANGELES (100-76916) (0)

SCENCH ANARE WORLD IBERIARIAN FIN(SLE)

IS - MISC

00: Los Angeles

Encl

rela

ReBulet to Los Angeles, dated 12/24/70 captioned,

"SQUARE WORLD LIBERTARIAN FRONT,

Chicago letter to Los Angeles, dated 12/24/70 (interoffice);

and Tampa letter to los Angeles, dated 2/25/71 (interoffice.

Character in this matter has been changed from RM - WHITE

HATE GROUP to IS - MISC as this more nearly seems to describe

subject organization. As

be a

"paper organization,

"notea below,

the group appears to

and there is no indication its

aims are in the nature of a white hate group, rather it is

to be noted that its organizer ED BUTLER has featured a CAtt

rock musicaL group, the sons of Liberty, comprised of a

Negro, Indian, Oriental, Irishman, Jew, Italian, and a Mexican,

which

on its very face would tend

to indicate it could not

be a white hate group.

There are enclosed for the Bureau's information,

six copies of a letterhead memorandum (IHM) concerning

captioned matter. : This LHM 1s classified Confidential because

the unauthorized disclosure of information furnished by

•Source Two could be prejudicial to national defense interests

by compromising that security source of continuing value.

Sources utilized in preparation of this IHM are:

= ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED(TER)

LASSIFIED

98 BY 5668 SLO/GEL

HATE SIN

Source One

JOHN DONALD COLE

Los Angeles (concealed a

request

Source

-Two

EX-104

CSLA 4143-S

Bureau (Enc.

/ ENCLOSURE

REG. 36

RM )

1:50 20136

- Chicago (100-DEAD)

1

- Tama (157-50701 mE nE (RM)

(RM)'

MCT-13: 8 MAY 10 1971

I - LOs

Angeles

GGB/ sas

(6)

AGENCY:

MINN F02

eDeD, LUS, eSi, SEC. 'SERV., HRS:

DEPT: ISD, CRD, HD:J, ED

R/S

DATE FORMI

/c.

MAY 20 1971

min-1n.

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 53130 DooId: 32312321

Page 2

---

