# docid-32144293

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

VARIН-VIINIULN".

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10073-10330

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-109060-8268

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/15/1989

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

MCO, LEGAL ACT, RECEIPT OF MONEY, ASSISTANCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 2;4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/05/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

Dödid: 32144293

Page 1

27

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

10 16

SSP

CLASS.

SRC' P

SER

REC INBOXI

33

TEXT:

(#9352)

VZCZCN00001

PP HQ DL MP LON

DE NO #0001 0750043

ZNR UUUUU

P. 150023Z MAR

89

FM

FBI NEW ORLEANS

TO

DIRECTOR

FBI/PRIORITY/

FBI DALDAS/PRIORITY/

FBI MINNEAPOLIS/ PRIORITY/

LEGAT LONDON/ PRIORITY/

(175A-DL-109)

(P)

Pip

BT

UNCLAS

DEZ, INFORHATTON ONTARINA

TRIIN IS UNCLASBIRIA

DATE: -10-95 84 9103 RAMES

JFK

CATE:

1/3530/1

PASS:

FBIHQ: VIOLENT CRIMES SECTION, CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIVE

DIVISION.

SUBJECT:

62-109060-8268

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY; PPSARA; DO:*

DALLAS.

MAY

REFERENCE DALLAS TELETYPE TO DIRECTOR, DATED MARCH 14p 1989.

ON MARCH 15, 1989, NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA, CITY COUNCILMA!

JOSEPH GIARRUSSO, A FORMER CHIEF OF POLICE, NEW ORLEANS POLICE

150Y2

DocId: 32141293 Page 2

LON

---

## Page 3

Hereased

under the JohncE

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection, Kat of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note) ,

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO DE NO 0001 UNCLAS

DEPARTMENT 1960 UNTIL 1978, ADVISED THAT HE RECEIVED A SECOND OF

TWO TELEPHONE CALLS ON MARCH 1D, 1989, FROM AN UNKNOWN FEMALE

WITH A BRITISH ACCENT WHO ADVISED SHE LIVED IN BRIGHTON, SUSSEX

COUNTY, ENGLAND, TELEPHONE NUMBER 0273-304-361, BUT REFUSED TO

GIVE HER NAME•

GIARRUSSO ADVISED THAT THE UNKNOWN FEMALE CALLER HAD RELATED

TO HIM THAT SHE WAS IN THE NEW ORLEANS AREA FROM 1966 UNTIL 1968,

AND HAD WORKED ON A TEMPORARY BASIS FOR ABOUT TWO DAYS WITH AN

ATTORNEY OF ITALIAN EXTRACTION, NAME UNRECALLED. WHILE WORKING

FOR HIM SHE HAD TYPED A LETTER, CONTENTS NOT REMEMBERED,

ADDRESSED TO THE MOTHER OF LEE HARVEY OSWALD, AND THAT MONEY WAS

BEING SENT TO HER. REASON FOR THE MONEY TRANSMITTAL WAS UNCLEAR,

BUT SEEMED TO HAVE SOMETHING TO DO WITH PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S

ASSASSINATION. SHE HAD REFERRED TO ATTORNEY AT, "SLEEZE BALL" IN

AN EARLIER CONVERSATION WITH THE COUNCILMAN'S SECRETARY, SAME

DATE AND STATED THAT HE SHOULD HAVE BEEN INDICTED.

THE FEMALE ALSO INDICATED THAT SHE WAS IN THE NEW ORLEANS

AREA DURING THE TIME OF THE CLAY SHAW TRIAL AND HAD BEEN

INTERVIEWED BY THE NEW ORLEANS POLICE DEPARTMENT, BUT DID NOT

WANT TO TESTIFY IN THIS MATTER BECAUSE SHE WAS AFRAID TO BECOME

DocId: 32144293

Page 3

---

## Page 4

The 71

Kennedy Assassrnatior Recurts Colleation det of 1992 (11-US€-2T0)-

DATE: 11-14-2017

- sai ente

!

- --

PAGE THREE DE NO 0001 UNCLAS

INVOLVED. AS RECEIVING OFFICES ARE AWARE, CLAY SHAW WAS TRIED

AND ACQUITTED BY FORMER DISTRICT ATTORNEY JIM GARRISON FOR

CONSPIRACY TO MURDER PRESIDENT KENNEDY IN THE LOCAL COURTS.

GIARRUSSO ADVISED THAT THE FEMALE CALLER FORMERLY HAD BEEN

MARRIED TO AN AMERICAN AND HAS A TWENTY-ONE YEAR OLD SON ATTENDIG .

A LOCAL UNIVERSITY.

REQUEST OF LEGAT LONDON: IDENTIFY SUBSCRIBER TO TELEPHONE

NUMBER 0273-304-361, AND CONDUCT BACKGROUND IN ATTEMPT TO

IDENTIFY FEMALE CALLER.

PRIOR TO ANY INTERVIEW, LEGAT SHOULD

PROVIDE IDENTITY OF SUBSCRIBER AND FEMALE CALLER TO DALLAS, NEW

ORLEANS, AND FBIHQ FOR INDICES CHECKS.

BT

#0001

NNNN

DocId: 32144293

Page 4

---

