# docid-32295513

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10215-10289

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-482

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, RO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/04/1963

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :.

[Restricted]

• DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/25/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId:32295513

19

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107. Hotey.

DATE P,11-14-2017

Rome 92-80

Concerning

this latter point, Doctor MANOPULO, on

10/4/63, advised that the Italian National Police have still

not located NICOLA GENTILE.

LEAD

BUREAU

It is requested that the Bureau explore the possi

bilities of furnishing this office as much public source or

releaseable Bureau information pertaining to the public

testimony presently being given by VALACHI as possible.

Rome Office is continuing to follow this matter and

will promptly report pertinent information 'developed.

DooId: 32295513 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

THE FOREIGN SERVICE

OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:

The American Embassy

Rome, Italy

Date:

To:

Jumps:

Subject:

October: 4, 1963

Director, FBI (92-6054)

Legat, Rome

(92-80) (P)

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

ReBucab

10/3/63.

Doctor ARISTIDE MANOPULO, Central Bureau, Criminal

Bureau,

Italian National Police, Rome, Italy, was furnished

the information set out in referenced

Bureau

cable. on 10/4/63.

Doctor MANOPULO understands that verbatim tran-

scripts of the U. S. Senate Sub-Committee concerning this

matter will not be available for somé three months.

quested, however, that this office explore the possibility.

of the testimony of JOSEPH M. VALACHI to date.

The Italian public at large, and the Italian National

Police in particular, are closely following Italian public news

media reports on VALACHI'S testimony, but these reports are

doubtless briefer and much less comprehensive than press cover-

age afforded the testimony in the U. S., and particularly

Washington, D. C., papers.

Doctor MANOPULO is well aware of the intense interest

of the Bureau in this matter and

he has made known to the Rome

Office that the Italian National Police and Italian Parliament

are also intensely interested.

He has stated that he will

promptly make available, in detail, any pertinent information

developed. He points out, however, that it is only the U. S.

authorities who have, to date, managed to break the curtain

of silence surrounding key personalities in this matter in

an effective fashion.

92-6054-482

- Bureau

1 - Rome

JCM/hcs

(4)

(1 - Foreign Liaison)

Done 1I14

10-18-63

758/180

8 OCT 9 1963

DocId: 32295513 Page 3

---

## Page 4

releasen under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USe 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

• 8

Legat, Rome (92-80)

REC- 122

Director, TBI (92-6054) - 1/7

10/18/63

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR CONSPIRACY

Re Rome letter 10/4/63.

For your assistance in maintaining favorable

relations with Itallan National Police, there is enclosed

five newspaper articles covering testimony of Joseph Valachi

before the U. S. Senate Committee concerning captioned

organtzation.

These news articles are from various U.s.

newspapers and may be made available to Dr. Manopulo in

connection with their interest in Congressional hearings

dealing with La Cosa Nostra. You will be turnished

additional similar newspaper articles in the event further

significant data is developed with regard to this organiza-

tion from testimony at these

hearings.

Enclosures (5)

1 - Faxedge Lialson (route, throus

for review)

saved.

(5)

MAILED 3I

OCT 2 1 1963

COMM-FBI

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

• tonrad

JeLoach

* ivans

lale

osen

illivan

Ivel

otter

ile. Room

90F21

mam troput

DocId: 32295513 Page 4

+ 0C1 64 18034

TELETYPE UNIT

---

