# docid-32309307

## Page 1

JFK Assassination Systen

Identification For

Agency Information

Date:

4/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10298-10094

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

29-31889-173

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DE

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/22/1963

5

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/21/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS:

REFERRED TO DOJ, INC A/T, LHM

v9.1

NW 45712 DocId: 32309307

36

Page 1

---

## Page 2

11/26/63

Airtel

To:: SAC, Detroit

(29-1432)

REC.

From: Director,

(29-31889) -173

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA

EX. - 117.

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE,

TRA; ITSP; UP; FEW; CONSPIRACY

ET AL.

Detroit)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE /0-1/-94.BYSD8 MAC/UST

(JFK)

ReDhairtel dated 11/22/63 with LAM enclosed.

Dissemination of reliM being withheld at the Bureau and

Detroit should do likewise pending clarification of the following:

Reairtel does not specifically indicate the date or

the person from whom information furnished by Robert C. Neissner

to Department Attorney William French was received.

made this information available to the Decroit Office, there

If Nr. preach

appears to be no need for concealing oither his identity as the

person tho furnished this information or the identity of

Meissner as French's source in reLill inasmuch as this memorandum

So disseminated to the Criminal Division of the Department only.

Mr. French requested that Meissner's identity be protected

In this manner, you should so state in your cover airtel as well

as indicating any reason he may have for 'such a request.

By return airtel advise Bureau Clarification of above

and whether or not dissemination of relhi can be made in its

present form.

I = Chicago

(29-1999) (Information)

ERK: oem: jlt

(4)

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gafdy

MAILED 27.

NOV. 26

1963,

113

COMM-FBi

2? 3ll st

EC

OMAN

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 45712 DocId: 32309307

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FP-36 (Rèv.. 12'

(3-56)

FBI

Date: 11/22/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AM

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (29-31889)

FROM:

SAC,

DETROIT (29-1432) (P)

JAMES RIDDLE

HOFFA;

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE, aka; ET AL

FRA; ITSP; MF; FBW; CONSPIRACY

(00: DETROIT)

JFK)

EX: 103.

Remyairtel 11/12/63.

Enclosed herewith to the Bureau are four copies of an LHM con-

taining information furnished to Dept. Attorney WILLIAM FRENCH

based upon a discussion between

and

JOSEPH F. VERHELLE

at the Washington Hotel, Washington, D.C.

on 11/18/63.

A copy of this LHM is being furnished to Chicago for information

in view of the fact that

resides there and reference

is made to possible future developments in Chicago. A copy of

this LHM also will be furnished to FRENCH at Detroit.

Dept. Attorney THOMAS J. MC KEON, Detroit, advised on 11/22/63

that FRINCH has returned to Washington, D.C., and it was not

known definitely at this time whether VERHELLE still plans to

in Chicago 11/25/63, as they had tentatively

planned on 11/18/63.

3

Bureau (Enc.

4)

Chicago. (Info.) (29-1999): (Enc.])

1

-

Detroit

VGW/vw.

(5)

no, in on ono f9 889-173

2 Lim Criminal Divicion - 06D

BEC 13

Altention: Mr.

• Wale: 3.S

19/291 63мл

1963

retained.

airtel

Approved:

Sent .

Special Agent in Charge

-

Per.

NW 45712 DocId: 32309307 Page 3

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Detroit, Michigan

November 22, 1963

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; DOMINICK

EDWARD BARTONE; ET AL

FEDERAL RESERVE ACT; INTERSTATE

TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN

PROPERTY; MAIL FRAUD; FRAUD BY

WIRE; CONSPIRACY

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEB

The following information was recently received

by the Department of Justice from a confidential source

who has furnished reliable information in the past:

A conference of various

persons including James

R. Hoffa, two vice presidents of the International

Brotherhood of Teamsters, and Joseph I/vethelle, former

president of Public Bank, Detroit, allegedly took place

November go To mes ascuss ma tee concerning

November 18, 1963.

the Teamsters Pension Fund, allegedly including the

possibility of a loan from the fund for the purpose of

purchasing the building at 130 North Franklin. Chicago,

Illinois.

(MEI), formerly

Outs top tve hook this but ding and now 18

reportedly interested in purchasing the building, possibly

in conjunction with Verhelle and/or other purchasers.

Verhelle reportedly felt that the above-mentioned

loan could be made and that Robert C.

Meissner, president

of MEI, could be of assistance to Hoffa in view of business

and political contacts of MEI in Nashville, Tennessee, and

Chicago. Verhelle indicated he had received information

that MEI had done work on a chemical plant in Tennessee

about a year ago and also had contacts with the Tennessee

Highway Department and various other agencies and political

ELL

908-100d

NW 45712 DocId: 32309307 Page 4

---

## Page 5

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE; ET AL

of the

family. To further explore the possibility

that

might be utilized for the benefit of Hoffa in

connection with the cases pending in Federal courts in

Nashville and Chicago, Verhelle indicated that he would soon

confer with an attorney who was not identified by name but

who was referred to as the "quarterback" of the team of more

than 30 attorneys who reportedly are working on these cases

for Hoffa, Verhelle anticipated that after so conferring,

it would be determined whether

might be able to

help Hoffa through efforts directed toward one or more members,

of a jury or toward the judge himself.

Verhelle allegedly favored trying to make an

"arrangement" with Judge Austin through [

on the basis

of being an "old friend", and it was Verhelle"s feeling that

if Judge Austin were to make some rather minor procedural

mistake that would cause a mistrial, such a "human error" on

the part of the judge would not destroy his career but would

be of great value to Hoffa.

Verhelle indicated that in

return for such favors to Hoffa, "they" would be happy to

pay the persons responsible for

the favors. Tentative

arrangements were made for Verhelle to attempt to meet with

in Chicago in the near future, to discuss the

possibility of a Pension Fund loan to purchase the building

at 130 North Franklin and also the possibility of

being of assistance to Hoffa in regard to pending court cases.

Verhelle also intimated that he has a number of bank

accounts in Switzerland and that he handles some of these

accounts for Hoffa.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is

loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

OTHER 4

2

928-100d1

NW 45712 DocId: 32309307 Page

5

---

