# docid-32389762

## Page 1

Date:

02/10/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-10406-10013

RECORD SERIES

:

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

-144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 53320 Date:

06-26-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

CIA

FROM

: CHIEF OF BASE, GENEVA

TO

CHIEF, EE

TITLE

DATE

DISPATCH: LCHARVEST/ INK/PSYCR REVOLUTION AFRICAINE

10/22/1963

PAGES

6

SUBJECTS : GIBSON

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

06/30/04

COMMENTS : JFK-RHO3 : F0052 : 20040324-1064203

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10406-10013

HH 53320

DooId: 32389762

Page

1

---

## Page 2

-

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH

TO

iNFO

Chief, FE

Chief, FE

Chief

of Station, Bern

FROM

Chief of Base, Geneva

SUBJECT O LCHARVEST / INK/PSYCH

Revolution Africaine

ACTION REQUIRED

None.

REFERENCE(S)

REFS:

ChiefEt

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

ESGA-5501

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

68-8-8

DATE

22 October 1963

RE: "13-3"' - (CHECK "X" ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

-A.

B.

ESBA-12659 201- 306052

ESBW-9954

68-8-8

1. We have no Base traces on either Richard Thomas GIBSON or Francois

MASPIRO. There Is no record Indicating that GIBSON ever registered with the

U.S. Consulate General in Geneva.

2. Available Information on Fredy GoN. ANDERSSON was forwarded 1n

ESGA-5347•

Lilg9 all

Pn 11p/N. Mulkes

21 October 1963

Jistribution

2 - Chief, E

2 - Chief, FE

2 - COS, Bern

IS COPY

AROUP 1

CLASSIFICATION Excludst froz artematic

SECRET

donnerading aad

declassiflcation

68-8-8

PAGE NO.

FORM

10-57 53

(40)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

EPLACES FORM

-28A

| 179 53320

DocId:32389762 Page 2

CONTINUED

---

## Page 3

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION, A

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARXED FOR INDEXING

TO

Chief of Station, Bern

INFO.

Chief of Base, Geneva

FROM

Chief, EB

SUBJECT INK/KUNOLZ/Chicom Activities

LA REVOLUMION APRICATE/Richard Thomas Cibson (207-306052)

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

HO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXIMA

MICROFILM

REFERENCES:

A.

ESGW 1059, 2 August 1963

Bo

ESBA 12659, & August 1963

c.

DER 64186, 27 August 1963

Transmitted herewith as attachment A 18 the KUDESK summary of the latest

Intormation available to leadquarters on subject journal and 1ts English language

editar, Richard T. G1b801.

The material may be passed to the INANCTIONs with the

following changes in paragraph one:

8. Delete reference to Verges' travel to China during June of this year to

arrange bacidag for this venture..

D. Change the statement, "the English language edition of Revolution

Africaine, published in lausanne, was dropped by Mohamed Farbl..

g" to read that

the Inglish language edition of the Revolution Airleaine, Iublished In Lausenne,

apparently has been dropped since the Isusame office disappeared from the masthead

oi Revolution Africaine fallowing publication of Volume I, I0. 2 11 Jure 1963.

ei. Change the last sentence to read? "the French address l8 also nei."

Headguarters vould appreciate receiving any ansters to the questions included tri

paragraph 2 of attachment A which the INANIONs, the Bern Station or the Geneva

Base are able to uncover. le are also interested 1n coufirmation of the state

ment contained in paragraph 4 of PARI 0146, 9 August 1963, Ie purchase of a modern

printing plant by the Chieoms, repartedly for use 1a Berz..

Attachment B is a sumary of the KUBARI InfOrMAtION On AfrICan Revolution and

Richard Gibson watch my be passed to the INANMIOIs. It is s bit dated is that it

describes the structure as 1t ayparently existed prior to the dismissal of Vergens

however, 1t may be of interest to the INANIONS as background information. Para-

graph 1 of attaciment B is Information reparted by the Alglers Station; paragraph ?.

1s quoted froM & preBs TeleRse made fron the. Inußanne OffiCE of American

Revolution.

CORTENUR

•Distribution:

2-008/Bern W/Att. ABBot

2-COB/Geneva v/Atto. ABSC

3 Enda.

CROSS REFERENCE TO

GROUP 1

Excluded itin Me.am

downgrading and

declassification

A&B

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE

68-8-8

1 6 SEP

Cs goEM

37-9954

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

HQS FILE NUMBER

OFFICE

FE/SA/S

0eP 12 9111.04

AF/1/1

CI/ICG

FE/CH/IOC

OFFICE SYMBOL

AC/EE/SA

68 8 3

ORIGINATING:

DONKA MESTICARD

COORDINATING

DATE

18/9/63

18/4/63

11/9/63

12 Sent 63

EXT.

7469

#/Att.

REDITS

R77+PE

EE/SA/s

DES

FORM

: 11-63

53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

MY 53320

40000lg

RELEASING

FFICER'S SIGNATUR

Kenshell 2.140n

FENDATI, GO

DISPATCH

DocId 32389762 Page 3a fessio-

Finalisoris

al sent died cite 3

---

## Page 4

CONTINUATION OF

"DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

3.

Attachment C 10 & summary of Paris and Brussele Station reporting on a publishes

by the name of francOls NASpiro who Is thought to be Involved in the distribution od

Revolution Africaine of other Chicon polemical mterials. Bern Station and Geneva

Base traces on MASPIRO are requested. Attachment C has not been cleared for jassize

to the INANUIONS.

4.

ODKIVY traces on GIbaOn which can be passed to the IlANtIONS Wlll be forwardei

by a future pouch.

AUGUSTA R. X1H

530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

CS COrN

LASSIFICATION

SECRET

68-8-8

PAGE NO.

31320

DOg14) 22389762 Page

---

## Page 5

SECRET

MEHORANDOM

SUBJECIS REVOLICTON AFRICATEL

arrango backins for this vanture, Also, ascendrag to thia lasso sorerco, Anytena

Revolution, tha nathly Incitas lenguage adition al the Algiana bened heralialo

De, publlahad In Inues, win droyped by labned Barbs, Verges Maplessment as

al RevolUtion ASlesina, fOlLovies DublIEStIon Of VaL. I, ID. 8 13 Junza.

insigurians las son rannived a popy of s journal callod Africa LatIn Amardoe

Aola Rovalution, those 21590 ed1t1on in Ingliah 10 Ilntal as tal, I, 10. 3, and 11

deseribed an a continuation ol 1t51oBa Revalutios, broadendag 1t8 seopo.

The mastered

Ilots Vergas an Direstor and Inalontes thai all anguirten consernias the joneral

abould do addrased tos

0va}uttom

Metropata, 10-11

Tabs (033) 22 00 95

In fallowing burnes of the jubilention ero Ilotudi

Britain → e/O H.IoDo, Y Carliero Street, Iessd01, W.1

P.O. Exx 399, Pering (37)

Cuba « Revalvalon, Plaza de la Devolution, Hereia

Trance ~ 40, Jus FrassOla IBS, ParLE Be

Italy - via Cole d1 Rinzo 28, Rosa

Dangeryla - P.O. Bos 80T, Coronation Eover, Dedependen

Avera; DAP 98 SBZ2BS

U.S.A, - 2hb East h6th Streat, Den Xork 17, MaI.

It Is noted that the bureans Ilotad In Chits, Cube, Italy, Pantarylin, and thI

J. 9. An any 100nt1enl vlth those st1ll carried on the masthead of Favolution Arleala

since verges atoulara). The Erstlah address, Intermiy rafarzing to the lew lost revie

• sent-mouthly sovien publlabad at thie addrass, 1o see.

The franch sddress, which bas

sen Independently reparted to do that of vergos In Peals, la also ton.

Journal 11th 12000

CS COPY

SECRET

CROUP 1

Excluded tom asizaatic

askitesincation

Enc.21 ESBW-995#

68-8-8

7 53320: DocId: 32389762 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

O ₴ 40

Hhat l0 44n carrent location and status of Elebard U12AOa? Tha traces

CAn INAULTION DONTINA that GIbBors 1a a$111

SEGRET

68-8-8

HH

53320

DocId: 32389762. Page 6

---

## Page 7

SEGRET,

ENAORANDUSA

NUBJECES LA REVOLU

NE/RICHARD THOMAS GIBBON

81i2, 8 5021-320979

1a1m to bava offloes in len YOrk CITY, PArIs, londos, Darer-Balsau, Havars an

Istan. than adorens tos the len York CIty OffICe of the ungnajon 10 PhA Best Hotl

Strage.

sockerelied Illustrated nonthly InfaxIna consintA ol saloctiona shon RavOLutioi,

the prescholanguago weakly adited and publlabed 11 Algarla aince 2 Fabruary 1963, de

vell a crease arterial.

1DO ALTONtON OR AFRICAN REVOLVTION 1E H. J. VERDES, to InNyes vue direared the

Logal darenso of Algerian prisones is French courts during Algeria's lar of liberation.

Editor 1s-eb108 la lar, Lotra DH'1S, ona al the outstanding romma fletture in the struge

Bla fox independensa.. In chargo of tha Engliah elition 10 Blahard Gibson, an ARTO

cuba committee 1a tha t. B. Do

AFRICAN REVOLUTION 18 EdIted 15 Alglers, Irlnted in Doltzastand and diatributed

throughout Arrten, Asta, Erroga and lorth Anestca l9 dils Andersion, Faltions de la

C1t9, Netropola, 10-11 Inusanno, sitcolari.

ARTCAI REVOLVTION DRILO OF 30 U. D, CRITE a COpY 1S ASTICA, 3,50 F and 30 6e I2..

urosa 2123 75 cento ta Mart Asseries.

TDO FISHE (19Y) 1AN08 OS ADRICAN FSVOLUNION COLtAIRe a stateMeNt by Algeula's

President Almad BOn Balla calling for the I11s3%11o1 Ol Borla AIrIes and pledging bia

govermet's support for that task,. It ales contadas artlalen by Olives Taroo, Vice

GROUP 1

udeil in autamatte

daangradias sad

SACIASE/LICLILOO

none 13 also a rupart on the ver al liboration in Borneo and an. Recout a

ATTONNANICAn ALrUGELA by RODONt I. W111IAUA, SOFTeN IeRdAr of tha intiona

HM .53320

DocId: 32389762

Page 7

---

