# docid-32330173

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90089-10208

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

HQ

100-344127-NR

Released under the John

i. Kennedy

Assassination Records

collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

MD

HQ

DATE: 09/21/1959

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

N9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32330173

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

TE AGENCI

Director, FBI (109-12-810)

9-21 - 59

Legal Attache, Hadrid

(109-16)

A INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN T

CASSIFIED EXCEPT

LACKE SHOWN UTTERMISE.

FOREICE POLITICAL MATTERS: - CUBA

INTERNAL SECURITY • CUBA

Re Indrid letter 3-25-59- •

On 9÷18-59,

FAEL NIRALLES

BRAVO, fomer Press

Attache

of the Cuban Enbassy in Hadrid during the

BATISTA Regime,

exhibited a letteradated 9-9-59 which he had received from

ROLANDE LASTERRER ROJAS,

a former Cuban senater who now is living

exile in Biani.

It will be recalled that WASPERRER ROJAS is

one-time Conmunist who fought in the Spanish Civil War on the

Republican side and who was of considerable assistance to the

batista Government prior to the fall of the latter on 1-1-59.

is wre has been finaue is matimed in corcotion with cus

spiratorial activities being carried on against the present

O Castro Goverument in Cuba.

In his letter, which was written in

reply to a letter which MIRALUES said he had sent to MASEBRRER,

MASTBRNER commented that he expected the situation in Cuba to

become much worse for the Castro Governnent before the end of

tbe year 1959.

He wns critical of the activities of the Cuban

group in the Dominican Republic in the sense that they had fallen

anto the trap set up by the American citizen named WILLIAM MORGAN

and BLOY GUPIERREZ MENOYA.

He expressed the opinion that the

Cuban middle class, described by him as the most active and fear

less, is steadily becoming opposed to the Castro Government and

that this group would be uf considerable assistance in any

plot'against the Castro Government. He mentioned that feeling

against the Castro Government appears to be particularly strong

in Santiago, Cuba, pointing out that this city was one of the

one due one castra dari his eight aarass the

Batista Government.

MIRALLES said

that in his letter to MASTURIEN

suggested the advisability of setting up an organization within

Cuba along Communist-cell lines,

an admitted ex-Con.

the Castro

Government, which he claims is completely influenced by the

Conmunists.

NASFERRER,

In his letter to MRALLES,

he thought the plan was a

good

cormented

that

one and suggested RALLns woulc

be an excellent person to carry out this plan. *M

180-34-41275

* - Bureau (1 Nand - 1 Havzna)

Nadrad

10

CDA :apd

6806T

(5

CLASS R4L81

BETEDLAIAI

REASON-FCIM

DATE DEE

NOT RECORDED

117BEP 30 1959

81a191

-12-210cm

HH

544.60

DooId: 32330173

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MIRALLES commented that he is perfectly willing to

endeavor to return to Cuba to carry out the plan since he is

rapidly becomange

destitute in Madrid as he has no fixed

source of income.

•This is for the Bureau's information.

Two extra copies

of this letter are attached in the event the Bureau desires

forward them

to the Miani and Havana Offices.

The Madrid Office will continue to follow this matter

through available sources

and the Bureau will be advised. M)

do0.dd10s08

14 54460

DocId: 32330173

Page 3

---

