# docid-32298107

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10220-10383

HQ

105-114543-59, 60

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, SJ

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/24/1964

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

JURE, MR, TRA, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, NOTE, A/T

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

48sa881nation Records

Collection act of 1902

(44 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

N9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32298107

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

- Mr. Belmont

SEC

1

• Mr. Sullivan

1

. - W. R. Wannall

I - V. H. Nasca

Mr. J. Walter Yeagley

Assistant Attorney General

Director, FBI

CIA HAS NO DISGUANY 03O, 1964

DECLASOIACAUON ARD/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORDATION

IN THIS DOCUNICHT.JM

(JFAK)

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA (JURE)

6-18-97-508 maKSK

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

-94

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Classified uy 5166

AGCL

Declassily on: 041

4485

URMATION CONTAINED

#CLASSIFIED

Reference is made to previous information furnished

concerning the captioned anti-Castro organization.

For your confidential information, the Central

Intelligence Agency (CIA) on December 6, 1963, advised that

INF

Lit was furnishing some financial assistance to the captioned

ALT:

HEEDIN

EXCE?

OTHE

organization because there were indications that it has some

potential for infiltrating agents into Cuba. CIA further

advised that it was maintaining limited liaison with Manolo

Ray who heads the captioned group t) (PU)

. whom insufficient contact has been

On January 23, 1964, a source in Puerto Rico, with

had to determine his

reliability, advised he had learned from one of his employees that

Ray was planning an expedition to Cuba which would occur sometime

in the immediate future and which would depart from Ponce,

Puerto Rico:

Another source, a Cuban exile also residing in

Puerto Rico, advised on January 24, 1964, that he had

learned

from one of his employees who is a member of the captioned

organization

that the employee's nephev, Nelsy Ignacio Castro,

who is also a member of the captioned group, plans to depart

Puerto Rico priox to February 15, 1964, to infiltrate Cuba to

fight Castro.

Reportedly, Castro is receiving some type of

training in Puerto Rico in connection with his planned trip to

Cuba.

55

GROUP

105-114543-

MERed tram automatic

EX REVERSI

and

JAN 0 1964S anon

CLAXSIFICATION

ANTION

2 - San Juan (195-62469MM.FBI

2. - Miami (105/6661)

REFEB

SEE NOTE FOR SACS, SAN JUAN

64

N: jak

SECK

AND MIAMI, PAGE THO

TELETYPE UNIT

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

NW 54464 DooId: 32298107

Page 2

---

## Page 3

7-63

DECODED

AIRGRAM

CABLEGRAM

URGENT

1-24-64

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAN JUAN

242344

Tolson -

SECRET

Belmont _

Mohr

Casper -

Callahan -

Conrad -

DeLoach -

COPY

Evans -

Gales

Rosen

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

XX RADIO

EDEELETY REON AND ON

RELEASE OF CIA INSUHMATION

5p8 mac/K51

10-N194 7F14TASDOCUMENT.cM

16-18-97

Classified by P6

Declassify on: 0ADRg/28/85

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA (JURE), INTERNAL SECURITY-CUBA,

NEUTRALITY MATTERS. BUFILE 105-114543, MIAMI FILE 105-6651.

REBUAIRTEL DECEMBER 12 LAST.

ON JÁNUARY 23 LAST, PSI-UD JOSE LUIS CRESPIN PEREZ ALONSOO

STATED HE HEARD FROM ONE OF

•HIS EMPLOYEES THAT JURE LEADER

MANOLORAX WAS PLANNING AN EXPEDITION TO CUBA TO OCCUR SOMETIME

IMMEDIATE FUTURE AND WOULD DEPART FROM PONCE, PUERTO

FERNANDO

LOPEZI

LOBET, A CUBAN EXILE, OWNER OF EDITORA

ANTILLAS, INC. ADVISED THIS DATE HE HAS AS AN EMPLOYEE TOMAS

HERNANDEZ/GASTRO, A MEMBER OF JURE, WHO RECENTLY ADVISED LOPEZ

THAT HIS NEPHEW, NELSYKIGNACIOXCASTRO, ALSO A MEMBER OF JURE,

WOULD DEPART PUERTO RICO PRIOR TO FEBRUARY 15, NEXT, TO

INFILTRATE CUBA TO FIGHT CASTRO. LOPEZ STATED THAT ANOTHER

EMPLOYEE, LUIS XURADO, ALSO Á MEMBER OF JURE AND. AN, ASSOCIATE

; і..:

OF CASTRO, WAS SEEN IN PONCE, PR, TWO DAYS AGO... LOPEZ STATED !"=!

THAT CASTRO WAS RECEIVING SOME TYPE OF TRAINING ON BEHALF OF

JURE IN CONNECTION WITH HIS PLANNED TRIP TO CUBA, IN CAGUAS, PR.

[IN VIEW OF CIA INTEREST IN JURE,J AS INDICATED IN REBUAIRTEL, BAOLK

BUREẨU REQUESTED TO ADVISE SJO WHETHER ACTIVE INVESTIGATION

(и)

DESIRED TO DETERMINE. IF ALLEGED EXPEPLEAONITO CHEM TAKES PLACE.

said jake

LHM FOLLOWS.

INFORMATION COPY FOR

- TO JAN 3 1 1964

SEN

DECLASSIFICE DY 566SS10lKS

RECEIVED:

8:39 PM 2N

SEE REVERSE -F

6 202-97. EK) 500

-CLASSIFICATION

112/64

SECK

e intelligence contained in

phrased in order to protect the

above

message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 54464 DooId: 32298107

Page 3

---

## Page 4

4-3 (Fev, 4-17-63)

81033

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

Casper

Callahan

t Conrad

DeEpach

DECODED CORL

ANCE SE

Sullivan

I CABLEGRAM

XX

RADIO

SA. JM Tavel

TELETYPE 18.9%

Gandy

• AIRGRAM

URGENT : 1-24-64

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAN JUAN

242344

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA (JURE), INTERNAL SECURITY-CUBA,

NEUTRALITY MATTERS.: BUFILE 105-114543, MIAMI FILE 105-6661. MA

REBUAIRTEL DECEMBER 12 LAST.

ON JANUARY 23 LAST, PSI-UD JOSE LUIS CRESPIN PEREZ ALONSO::

STATED HE HEARD FROM ONE OF HIS EMPLOVEES THAT JURE LEADER

MANOLO RAY WAS PLANNING AN EXPEDITION TO CUBA TO OCCUR SOMETIME

IN THE IMMEDIATE FUTURE AND WOULD DEPART FROM PONCE, PUERTO

RICO.

FERNANDO LOPEZ LLOBET, A CUBAN EXILE, OWNER OF EDITORA

ANTILLAS, INC., ADVISED THIS DATE ME HAS AS AN EMPLOYEE TOMAS

HERNANDEZ CASTRO, A MEMBER OF JURE, WHO RECENTLY ADVISED LOPEZ

THAT HIS NEPHEW, NELSY IGNACIO CASTRO, ALSO A MEMBER OF JURE,

WOULD DEPART PUERTO RICO PRIOR .TO FEBRUARY 15, NEXT, TO

INFILTRATE CUBA TO FIGHT CASTRO. [LOPEZ STATED THAT ANOTHER

EMPLOYEE, LUIS JURADO, ALSO A MEMBER OF JURE AND AN ASSOCIATE

OF CASTRO, WAS SEEN IN PONCE, PR, TWO DAYS AGO. LOPEZ STATED

THAT CASTRO WAS RECEIVING SOME TYPE OF TRAINING ON BEHALF OF

JURE IN CONNECTION WITH HIS PLANNED TRIP TO CUBA, IN GAGUAS, PR.!!

IN VIEW OF CIA INTEREST IN JURE, JAS INDICATED IN REBUAIRTEL

BUREAU REQUESTED TO ADVISE SJO WHETHER ACTIVE INVESTIGATION

DESIRED TO DETERMINE IF ALLEGED EXPEDITION TO CUBA TAKES PLACE.

LHM FOLLOWS,

INFORMATION COPY FORIMPAMILE TE

ALE INEE

L RECE HE

ADA 36

3U35 IPMECLASSIALINEE 5001-5

n 6- 22-92 (JFK)

105-114543-59

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be sui

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

Coote

NW 54464 DooId: 32298107

Page 4

---

