# docid-32288893

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10200-10169

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-3602-1ST NR 14

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 04/29/1959

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

AHH, ASSOC, ACT, BUSS, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John

f. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32288893

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

Dates

SAO

SANSTE

other

(109-480)

YORK (109-46)

MONKA AONT

ALL INFORMITION CONTAINED

aualrtel 4/21/59.

observations are set forth concering

aNd HALLACE QUIAN and 1mi1viduals from

ned intorustion unich was made available

has been acquainted with WALLACE QUINN fOr

baving met him through ALBERTO FERNANDEZ,

Lavans, Cuba.

Nirs. TAAIFE, Over a

established various contaats anons business

Tonalities both in and out of

merican and Caribbean areas.

It 10

has dealt

with the Batiata government

Over this period she has developed

with ALAKRI

SANDEZ, his father

MARTINEZ

CELESPO

of the Cuban minine

these

contacts over a period of time.

been engaged

in business activities.

more for

social nature. Are. TAMPL

ie desirous

assisting the u...

asible, of her

volition,

38 or

CoverancEs

Cuba 1s going

0 LOVeR

Che

secla that

Coveren

92-3602-

NOT RECORDED

170 MAY

6. 1959

8

AY 8

195g

1H 54164

DocId: 32288893

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NT 109-45

Concerning

WATTACE CUND, 16 bas been indieated in

contsets with QUINJ that he has no politioal interests insofar as

tha various factions in Cuba are conseries.

however, be has bean

assestated with ALBERTO VERHAIN

over a period of time in business

in Cuba and the U.S. As a secult of this relationship, which 1a

both business and social, QUINN 1a presently, concerned as to

VITUATEZ" wolfare and will attenpt to assist FErNAtE in say way

20 сал.

This la his primry interest. It should be notes, bevover,

that both TAAVE and QUIll have exprossed confidence in the FBI

over and above other govermental agenotes and are both interested

in furnishing information which night be of interest to the U.S.

coverment.

in the newspapers concerning the CASTRO government because of

press, telephone and cable censorship in and out of Cuba and 1t

15 felt that the U.S. Goverment will not set a truo ploture unless

information personally obtained from people asquainted with the

Concerning ENRIQUE GARCIA, Mrs. TAAFTE has expressed her

distrust of him.

He has volunteered infommation to her and she

has not solicited infomation fron him. She belteves that the

Dominicans are actively working against the CASTRO governont

and know her connection with FERNANDEZ and others. She is of the

opinion that information volunteered by GARCIA may be done with the

expectation that it will be passed on to FERNANDEZ. Kre. SAAPTE

has lown GARCIA less than one year.

The Information furnished by Mrs. TAAIVE has been

volunteered to her by people in Cuba as to such questions as the

extent of inftltration by the Cornists in the government and thie

inforation has proupted questions and the solleltation of informa-

tion of her fron her contacte.

rust Nra. TAAIFT as she tells him nothie

Concerning the motives of krs. TAAPTE and QUINN, 1t 1B

Approved:

-M Per.

Spectal Agent in Charge

MN 54464 DocId: 32288893

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Trait the cellowing in

Via

Date:

(type in plain text or coda)

(Priority or Mosiod of Maillag)

NY 109-46

indleated that firat and foremost they desire to be good oitizens

and furnish information which my be of assistance and guidance

to the U.S. Government on the question of Cube. Neither have

indicated ary interest in finanolal gain as a result of furnishing

intormacion.

The NYO will continue to be alert as to circumstances

reflecting on the motives on the part or these sources, and also

Any acclvities which would sive rise to violations or the

Registration Act on the part of TAAVE and/or QUINN.

Amproves

Special Agent in Charge

Serl

N7 54464 DocId:32288893

Page 4

---

