# docid-32293761

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10212-10037

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-12-464

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/12/1963

6

CIP, GAMBLING, RACK AND SUBV

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32293761 Page 1

25

---

## Page 2

0 1....

FBI

Date:

11/12/63

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

FROM:

SAC, DALLAS (94-55A-SUB)

SUBJECT

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

REGA PIT

Re Dallas airtel to Bureau, 11/4/63.

RE:

GAMBLING ACTIVITIES - DALLAS DIVISION

(DL 162-1)

GIIF

DALLAS,

TEXAS

(DL 94-47)

PROSTITUTION ACTIVITIES

DALLAS DIVISION

(DL' 31-5614)

On 11/6/63, DL-185-C-TE furnished the following

information:

c- Wickl

No advised that MARCUB PEYTON (phonetic) who bangs

out at the Vagabond Club, Dallas,

had contacted hin stating

8) - Burenu

Dallas

(162-1)

Dallas

Dallas

(165-153)

165-150)

Dallas

(162-264)

REC: 3 62-9-12-44614

Dallas

(165-151)

Dallas

130-1387

Dallas

137-1110

Dallas

(166-702)

Dallas

137-566)

PaLlas (137H1438)

(162-129)

Dallas

(94-47)

ste

Dallas. (31-5614)

em

Approved:

DEC

3

Sent

_M

Per

1@@ pecial Age

Ig

NW 45760

DocId: 32293761

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 94-55A-SUB

that he, PEYTON, wanted to make a $5;000 bet on Baylor

in the Baylor-Texas game played on 11/9/63 (Baylor was a

6½ point underdog and Texas won seven to nothing).

' CI

advided that PEYTON later intreduced him to an EARLY LUMPKIN

(phonetic) and a "BUCK" BAKER, stating that they were from

Ft. Worth, Texas and that they were they ones wanting to

make the bet for a wealthy individual from Ft. Worth, Texas.

CI was making arrangements to handle the bet through local

Dallas bookie, WILLIAM RAY DAVIS (DL 162-264) •

CI advised that he had met WALLACE LOVELACE

WILLIAMS, aka "SOUCHAK" at the Redman Club located on

Live Oak Street and during the conversation WILLIAMS stated

the an individual named (FNU) GREENLEAF or GREENLEE was the

best handicapper of football games and that he, WILLIAMS,

used this individual to handicap games for information and

betting on football games!

On ,11/5/63, based on information previously given

to them by the Dallas

Office, officers of the Dallas Police

Department Vice Squad, raided the Redman Club at 4208 Live

Oak and arrested the following persons:

CHAPMAN, BOBBY JOE

BURNETT, GLEN

ANSE, VIRGIL HENRY

FOLSE,

CARRINGTON, RICHARD

HUGHES, LUKE JACKSON

DARNELL, CLARK LEROY

BAD A TAS CLAPTON

NICHOLS, V. A.

YEAGER, C. J.

#/M 34

w/M 31

W/M 35

W/M 32

W/M 33

W/M 48

W/M 42

W/M 33

W/M 64

W/M 34

C/M 39

W/M 27

W/M 43

W/M 65

W/M 59

-2 .

NW 45760 DocId: 32293761 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 94-55A-SUB

On 11/8/63, DL-181-PC (DL 137-1110) was questioned

concerning the two "lines" that show up in Dallas each week

concerning football games for the following weekend. Informant

stated that any "Iine" which carries the point spread on

each game listed (such as that put out by WILLIAM RAY DAVIS)

must come from Las Vegas. The other line which carries a

select number of games is possibly put out by some local

handicapper or bookmaker. It should also be noted that on

11/6/63, DL-185-C-TE advised that he had heard from some

Dallas bookmakers that they, the bookmakers, obtaid the

"line" and alter it in accordance with the way that wagering

progresses through the week.

On 11/8/63, It* JACK REVILL, Intelligence Squad,

Dallas Police Department,' advised that during the recent

intensive investigation by the Police Deparment of gambling

activities at the Club Montmartre, it was ascertained that

several prostitutes were also using the club facilities and

the bartender at. the club to arrange for dates of prostitution.

Lt. REVILL identified these prostitutes as MARY JO LEE,

4617 Virginia, Apt. 101, phone TA 45799; RAMONA WAGNER,

aka TUESDAY, Apt. C, 2344 Connecticut Lane, phone DA 4-4379;

CAROL DIANE ALEXANDER, Apt. I, 4818 Junius, phone TA 4-8704;

PEGGY FOLSE, Apt. 223, 6011 Gaston Avenue,

TA 7-7079;

"TINA" (LNU), phone LA 8-8590.

'Lt. REVILL also advised it

had been ascertained that CHARLES TESSMER; noted Dallas

criminal attorngy, has a paramour, "JUDY", who has telephone

number TA 4-7636.

RE: NOVELL YOUNG STANFIELD, aka.

ITWI (DL 165-153)

On 11/6/63, DL-185-C-TE, advised that STANFIELD

and GEORGE FREDERICK RECHENBERG were now operating their

football book from telephones TA 4-6745 and TA 4-7641.

The records of the telephone company reflect that telephone

TA 4-6745 is listed to the Dorchester House Apartments,

911 St. Joseph Street, and is the switchboard telephone

for this apartment house.

Telephone TA 4-7641, is listed

to R. E. MASSEY, 911 St. Joseph Street, Apt. 1012, and was

connected on 10/29/63.

It was also ascertained that telephones

previously used by the subjects were disconnected on 11/6/63

and that the final bill was to be sent to a Mr. LYONS at

= 3 =

NW 45760 DocId: 32293761 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DL 94-55A-SUB

616 North Franklin Street, Dallas. Telephone company

ascertained that the resident at this address was Mrs.

VERA K. LYONS.

On 11/7 and 8/63, Bureau agents physically

checked the parking lot at Dorchester house and observed

STANFIELD's car there on both dates.

RE: GARLAND POLLARD, aka., ot al.

ITWI

(DL 165-150)

On 11/6/63, DL-185-C-TE, advised that WILLIAM

RAY DAVIS (DL 162-264) had related to him on the previous

day that he, DAVIS, has not located a new apartment for

his booking operations.

CI stated that he is personally

placing bets on football games with GARLAND POLLARD at

POLLARD's residence

on Mckinney Avenue.

CI also advised

that DAVIS, POLLARD's financial backer in this bookmaking

transaction, has moved from his residence on Turtle Creek

Boulevard and presently has telephone number AD 9-3060.

Telephone company records show this is a non-published

number listed to DAVIS's wife, Mrs. ROGER DAVIS, 6540

Briarhaven and was connected on 10/3/63.

RE:

BOBBY JOE CHAPMAN, aka otal

'ITWI

(DL 165-151)

On 11/6/63, DL-185-C-TE, advised that CHAPMAN

was now operating as a bookmaker at telephone number

Telephone company reca ds reflect that the

to so lot we one to a 2 10210. 12, 7208

RE: RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS, aka

ITAR - GAMBLING

(DL 166-102)

On 11/6/63, DL»185-C-TE, advised that GLEN

BURNETT, JOSEPH "SOFIE" GEBRON, and MATTHEWS were in Ft.

Worth, Texas together on the night of 11/3/63. CI did not

know the purpose of this trip.

c 4 00

NW 45760 DocId: 32293761 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DL 94-55A-SUB

On 11/8/63, DL-170-C (DL 137-566), advised

that MATTHEWS had given CI an address of 2607 Greenbriar,

Irving, Texas, at the time MATTHEWS purchased his new

1964 white over blue Oldsmobile.

The cost of the car was

MATTHEWS had a $525 oquity in his 1962 Oldsmobile

and MATTHEWS added $600 cash in the transaction. The car

is financed through the American National Bank, Terrell,

Texas, with payments of $100 per month for 36 months.

CI also advised that MATTHEWS can usually be located through

his daughter PEGGY who resides at 4509 Southern, Dallas.

On 11/7/63 Bureau agents observed this automobile

parked at the Irving address.

Information concerning

MATTHEWS location at Irving was furnished to Assistant

Chief of Police LEON POWERS (NA) same date. He advised

he would immediately begin an intensified investigation

of MATTHEWS activities and furnish all results to the

Dallas Office.

RE: SHERMAN FRANKLIN LITTLE, aka

IGA

(DL 162-129)

On 11/5/63, the separated wife of LITTLE's runner !

(MARVIN COX) was interviewed at her request on a condition

basis by Bureau agents. This wife, MARILYN WAYNE STEELE

COX furnished a small note book which belongs to her husband,

which contained numerous telephone numbers.

She advised she

was furnishing this information to the FBI because her

husband had recently given her a severe beating.

She

advised she has known COX for approximately a year and a

half and from him learned that COX was working for LITTLE.

She sated COX received one half of the net earning from

bookmaking activities and to, substantiate this pointed

out a notation in the notebook where the number $72, 482

M - $24,160", these

Was $24,260 teen the tea 2,4 " - 50,322,

She RISo

that her husband was most recently living at an

apartment house in the 700 block of North Ewing. She also

advised that her husband as "something"' on the president

of the First National Bank in Grand Prairie às this is where

he gets checks cashed which are payments of gambling debts

and which checks never have the name of either LITTLE or

COX on them as the payee or the enfprser.

her husband once told her that "they" get the line from a

- 5 -

"NW 45760 DocId:32293761

Page 6

---

## Page 7

DL 94-55A-SUB

man (not further identified) and for which they pay a large

sum of money.

This man also has agreed to immediately

put up bail any time COX and/or LITTLE are arrested. Mrs.

COX also identified one DORAIN GORDON as an employee of

the telephone company who is a contact of her husband,

and who furnishes her husband identity of subscribers

to

non-published telephone pumbers and other infomation he

needs from the telephone company.

Bureau agents immediately checked the 700 block

of North Ewing and observed COX's car parked behind the

apartment house at 706 North Ewing.

It was determined

that COX resides in apartment 102. His license number is

now PW 1696 and he is also driving a 1963 blue Oldsmobile

with Texas dealer license P 1 27401,

Jis also the subject of Dallas file 137-1438. OTHER 4

on 11/8/63.

-

6*

NW 45760 DocId: 32293761 Page 7

---

