# docid-32392990

## Page 1

Date: 02/26/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10414-10406

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53320 Date:

06-26-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

CIA

CHIEF OF STATION, MEXICO CITY

DISPATCH-LIEMPTY PROGRESS REPORT/SECOND QUARTER 1963.

08/23/1963

3

SUBJECTS : DISPATCH

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/07/04

COMMENTS: JFK-RH07 : F136: 20040324-1064420

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10414-10406

HH 53320

DocId: 32392990

Page 1

---

## Page 2

I ROM

Chief of Station,

ico City

5112.16.6:1

LIEMPTY Progress Report/Second Quarter 1963

ACTION PLOURED - REFERENCES

Action: For your information.

Ref : HMMA-21060

MICROFILM

1. BACKGROUND

The LIEMPTY Projeci is designed to collect operational infor-

mation on the LIMERICK installation and personnel, as well as targets of

opportunity, through stationary and mobile photographic coverage.

In addition,

the projec provides the means for investigating leads from both the above

noted coverages and other Station sources. It supports other Station operations

through the renting of safehouses, providing and servicing post office box mail

drops, conducting countersurveillances and pretext investigations and perfor-

ming related tasks.

2. OPERATIONS

LIEMPTY provides the majority of photographs used by the

Station in its CE operations against the LIMERICK rarget. In this phase of

the operation the LIEMPTY basehouses and photo truck produced approximately

140 rolls of operational photos in support of the Station's CE program during

the reporting period. The Station considers the photo coverage of the

LIMERICK installation as essential tool in following the daily activities of the

personnel of that installation, including known and suspected intelligence

officers, and individuals visiting the establishment.

Selected examples of the LIEMPTY contribution to the Station's

CE program and its support of other Station operations are as follows:

CROSS REFERENCE TO

HW 53340 DocId: 32392990

a. The support provided by the two LIEMPTY cuiouts,

Oliver G. SCANTLING and Raymond H. GERENDE, in the AMROD

operation was essential to this operation. Due to the long operational

expericnee of these agents in the Mexico City operational environment

their aid in both the planning and execution stages of the AMROD

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA -21993 08

GOPY

23 August 1903

SOUP. 1.

Exclusted

natomatic

1324180

GCC

Partel

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

HES FILE NUMBER

50-6-74/3

---

## Page 3

DISPAICH

HH 53320

operation has been unique. The cutouts provided professional level

countersurveillance during the actual meetings between AMRIF'T -1

and Oliver E. FORTSON (ps), passed letters to the LIERODE instal-

lation, wrote many letters and placed numerous phone calls in support

of this operation and have actually carried on the daily activity of the

operation.

b. In the Soviet area the activities under this project have been

many and varied. Examples of this are: Stake out of a meeting be-

tween a Soviet intelligence officer and LISTEED-1; reporting of LICAL.

on the agitation of Aleksandr SIDOROV; Soviet Military Attache and

known intelligence officer, following a Station provocation of him;

LIENTRAP coverage of Lorenzo CARDENAS Barrajas, a Soviet contac:

a stake out of a bowling alley popular with PBPRIME citizens and officia

living in Mexico to determine the extent of a Soviet intelligence officer

attempts to cultivate these individuals; and LIMITED's radio dispatchi

of the LIEMBRACE team when this team was assigned to surveillance ‹

LIMERICK iargets.

c. Oliver G. SCANTLING greatly aided the Station's operation

to discredit and harass ESLARD-1 when ESLARD-1 returned to Mexici

from his native country. On one occasion SCANTLING made anonymo

phone calls to all major wire services informing them of the location o

ESLARD-I who at that time was in hiding under an alias.

d.

In the Station's continuing attempt to provide greater coveri

of the outlying states of Mexico, GERENDE has been assigned to devel

contacts in Zacatecas and Aguascalientes which can be activated into

operational assets in future.

GERENDE has already met with some

success in this area, but due to his heavy workload in the operational

role assigned him in the Station's support mechanism, continued ex-

ploitation of these contacts probably will be a slow process.

e. LILYRIC reporting has been of great interest in a matter c

LAURICLE concern.

f. In the general support of other Station operations, tasks of

the cutouts continue as reported in referènce. SCANTLING performs

as alternate cutout to LICASA-1 in a sensitive LAURICLE operation.

The project cutouts service 18 P. O. Box drops used not only for Statir

operations but also in support of Headquarters, IMWAVE, and other

Station requirements.

The completion of a new 4.5 meter security

wall at the LIMERICK installation was fully reported on by the LICAL

basehouse operator.

g.

Numerous investigations and miscellaneous assignments w

conducted by the project agents; a sampling of these follows: an inve:

tigation of a contact of the Cuban Consul in Merida, a casing of the sil

ESLARD-1 had planned to use as a secluded retreat (including picture

support of the DMHULK operation in arranging by telephone the conta:

between DMHULK and a KUBARK staff officer, investigation

in

Cuernavaca of the purchaser of the Alfred STERN property located

there, and a report by LIEMPTY-13 of the support of former Mexican

president Lazaro CARDENAS among the troop command officers of ti

Mexican Army.

—OKM

10.57 53a

(40)

3. SECURITY

No security incidents directly effecting the security of the

LIEMPTY operation occurred during the reporting period.

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

TLASSIFICATION

51-28. 51-284 AND Si 21

SECRET

PAGE NO

TWO

JCONTINULD

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE

DocId: 32392990

Page 3

---

## Page 4

1109-704

DISPATCH

The security wall recently erected to the height of 4. 5 meters

around the perimeter of the LIMERICK installation has reduced somewhat the

area of coverage of the LICALLA base. Certain interior arrangements have

been made, such as raising the floor of the operating room at LICALLA, which

will allow continued operation of the base. However, if some sori of vegetatio:

grows over the wire strands at the top of the fence, the view uf the base will

be shut off completely and other arrangements for photo coverage of the

4.

EQUIPMENT

No new equipment was purchased during the reporting period

nor is any such purchase presently planned. All assigned equipment functione:

normally during this period.

PERSONNEL

No change in personnel assignments, recruitments or termin-

ations was experienced during the reporting period. The performance of all

personnel in the project continued to be completely satisfactory during this

period. The support rendered by SCANTLING and GERENDE i0 the AMROD

operation deserves particular mention and their superior performance in tha

operation was noted in paragraph 2a above.

In recognition of his continued good all round performance the

Station recently requested that GERENDE's contract be amended to provide

for an increase in annual salary from $US 5, 500 to $US 6, 000. This raise i

not only desired, it is considered necessary to offset the continued inflationa

trend of the Mexican economy.

6. TRAINING

As in the previous reporting period, no training other than

continued review of tradecraft principles was conducted during this period

Photographic product continues to be reviewed daily and the action agents al

instructed as necessary in order to improve or correct their technique in

both the taking and processing of this product.

7. PLANS

Since the Station considers that this project is operating at i

optimum size, it does not plan to expand it at the present time.

Efforts wi

continue to refine and better utilize the existing operational mechanism.

Distribution:

-3 - C/WHD

2 - Files

53320

FORM

10.57 53a

podId: 32392990

USE FREVIQUS ESTION"

REPLACES FORMS

51-28 51.284 ANNESD

Page Modit

CLASSIFICATION

secret

PAGE NO

THR

_CONTINUED

---

