# docid-32339489

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90149-10085

RECORD SERIES: DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 92-245-17

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PH

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

12/26/1962

PAGES:

37

SUBJECTS :

ANTHONY ZERILLI

RUSSELL A BUFALINO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

^4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

N# 45993

DocId: 32339489

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PH. 92-441

which cuat aBlled 8/2/62 from the Lake Ariel residence of JANE

COLLINS, girl friend of subject.

At Providence, R.I.

Will identify subscriber to WI 2-7990 which was

called 8/3/62 from residence of JANE COLLINS at Lake Ariel,

BUFFALO

At Buffalo, N.Y.

1. Will continue efforts to determine the nature

of the association between the subject and LEO C. ARONICA,

431 14th Street.

Will furnish any information available to the

Buffalo Office reflecting the nature and extent of association

between the subject and ANTHONY ROMEO.

DETROIT

At Detroit, Mich.

Will furnish any information which reflects any

current association between the subject and JOSEPH BARBARA

JR., who 1s referred to in your teletype of 10/29/62.

NEWARK

At Trenton, N.J.

Will Identify the owner of 1959 Cadillac bearing New

Jersey license BFY 306 which was observed on 11/28/62 at

Scranton; Pa., where the driver and subject were in conversa-

tion with each other..

NEW YORK

At New York, N.Y.

1. Will maintain contact with PCI

Forrest.

Hotel

Will identify the following numbers which were

called on

i the dates indicated from the Lake Ariel home of JANE

COLLINS, subject's girl friend:

OTHER 4

B

COVER PAGE

NW 45993 DocId: 32339489 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-441

2. Will locate and interview ROCKY GRAZIOSI.

At Philadelphia, Pa.

1.

Will consider advisability of interviewing PHILIP

KRENER, 7630 Wyndale Avenue, who was with the subject at the

Twin Restaurant, Pittston, Pa.

2.

W111 maintain contact with PH 614-C-TE and

PH 623-c* for information concerning the subject.

At PIttston, Pa.

1. Will maintain contact with the following for

information concerning the subject:

PH 521-C

PH 526-0

Chief of Police

former PCI

JOSIER DELANY, PIttston PD •

At. Scranton, Pa.

1.: Will maintain contact with the following for

Information concerning the subject:

PH 559-C

PCI

PCI

2.

will attempt to determine the nature and extent

of association between subject and FRANK EUGENE CONTRUSI.

3: Will conduct complete background checks concerning

the employees of Tri-City Textile Company, Old Forge, Pa.,

and consider advisability of interviewing

them concerning

the subject.

4.

Will analyse the results of the check of the

toll calls made from Tri-City Textile Company and which are

being checked in connection with the investigation of CASPER

CUIMENTO:

OTHER 4

D

COVER PAGE

NW 45993 DocId: 32339489 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-442

INFORMANTS

Identity

PH'T-I

JOSEPH MILENKY (former SA), Chief

Investigator, Commissioner

Investigations, State of New York,

New York City

PH

1 PH

T-2

614-C-7E

PH

T-3

PH

623-C*

PH T-4

PCI

PK T-6

PH

526-C

PH T-T

WILLIAM MULLIGAN,

Special Checking

Department,

Trade Bank and Trust Company,

38th and 73rd Avenues, New

York City

PH

PCI, New York City

PH. T-9

MeS. VIOLET DUNNE, Auditor, Hotel Forrest

New York City

PH T-11

EMORY SIMKULAK, IRS, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

PH T-12

PH 521-C

PH T-13

LEONARD J. MAZALESKI, Superintendent. of

Post Office at Taylor, Pa.

Agent

SA JOHN B. MEADE

SA JOSEPH A. VERICA OTHER 4

SA. JOHN W. REINHARD

SA FREDERICK T.

• HOULTHAN

SA RICHARD A.

ANDERSON

SA JOHN B. MEADE

SA JOHN B. MEADE

SA FREDERICK T.

HOULIHAN

SA

•i'

GEORGE R. JOHNSON

SA FREDERICK T..

HOULIKAN

F

COVER PAGE

NW 45993 DocId:32339489 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PH 92-441

PH I-14

WILLIAM RINALDI

Rinaldi Motors, Scranton, Pa.

PH T-15

former PCI

PH T-16

CYRIL, BOSAK, Insurance Broker, Old Forge, Pa.

PH 7-17

ROBERT EVANS, President of the Pennsylvania

Gas and Water Company, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

PH T-18

New York (CSNY-1)

Dun and Bradstreet

PH T-19

PCI

PH T-20

SA FREDERICK T.

HOULIHAN

OTHER 4

"

PCI

'SA GEORGE R. JOHNSON

IC PETER B. MELLEY

SA FREDERICK T

HOULIHAN

SA THOMAS J.

WILLIAMS

ADMINISTRATIVE- DATA

It is to be noted that the investigative period of

this report overlaps previous report submitted by this Office.

This oceured because the information obtained prior to the

submission of the last report was not available to the reporting

, Agent at the time that report was being prepared. Information

from the Bell Telephone Company, Scranton, Pa., as set forth

in the body of this report was furnished to SA

THOMAS J. WILLIAMS

by ANN O'TOOLE and to SA JOHN W. REINHARD by JEAN DEVINE.

Information from Bell Telephone Company, Wilkes-

Barre was

obtained from Miss LEILA PATTON, Supervisor.

Information from the New York Telephone Company was

obtained from EDWARD I. BRAUNE, Agent, Legal Department.

G* '

COVER PAGE

NW 45993 DocId: 32339489 Page 5

---

