# docid-32326803

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90058-10065

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

91-18345-19

Released under the John

• Kennedy

assassination Recards

collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45742 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/04/1963

PAGES:

259

SUBJECTS:

RICHARD CAIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 4;10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT; SERIAL NOT IN FILE PULLED FOR HSCA LITIGATION CONTAINS B3

v9.1

H4T 45742

DocId: 32326803

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CG 91-3396

Sergeant HINCHY stated the information furnished

by these informants is as follows:

JOE D'ARGENTO has been lining up a group of in-

dividuals to commit a "score" of some type.

This score

would involve weapons which were to be supplied by

possibly LARRY FLETCHER or GERALD TOMASZEK.

The score would involve the use of a drop which

was to be a nearby location to the score and the score

was being set up so that it would be hit at a time most

partie datin.

advantageous to the thieves. The informant advised that

individuals who would be going on this score could possibly

be JOE D' ARGENTO, PAT SCHANG,,

VITO NITTI, FRANK DELEGGE,

MIKE (LNU), possibly MIkE SilAtEk.

Sergeant HINCHY advised that one of his informants

on that day advised JOE D'ARGENTO had been on a score on

9/23/63, the exact nature of the score was not known to the

informant, but the informant inferred very strongly that it

was the robbery of the Franklin Park Bank.

SHANAHAN

The informant

furnished FRANK DELEGGE's home telephone number, advised

that DELEGGE's son, FRANK, Jr., is married to the daughter

Of NICK PALERMO, owner of Melrose Park Plumbing Company•

Informant continued that DELEGGE's daughter is married to

a FIORITO, son of a cartage company owner.

He said

DELEGGE's sister is married to WILLIE "POTATOES" DADDANO,

well known Chicago hoodlum.

On 9/24/63, CG 6512-C-TE advised he had learned

that FRANK DELEGGE was involved in the robbery of the

Franklin Park Bank on 9/23/63, but the informant did not

=E=

COVER PAGE

HH

45742 DooId: 32326803 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 91-3396

know the specific nature of DELEGGE's actions in the

robbery.

The informant advised that he had also learned

that DELEGGE had been recently involved in a crime of

some similar nature, but it was not furnished to him

whether it was a bank robbery or not.

On 9/24/63, CG

5913-0

advised SA WILLIAM A.

MEINCKE that MIKE LA

JOY, telephone number 827-5350,

Des Plaines,

Illinois, nephew of FRANK DELEGGE,

FRANK DELEGGE were involved in the robbery of the Frank-

lin Park Bank on 9/23/63.

The informant advised FRANK DELEGGE used to

reside on Taylor Street and his sister is married to

"POTATOES" DADDANO.

The informant also advised MIKE LA JOY is deep

in juice, has lost his store, La Joy Foods, which LA JOY

owned with his brother.

The informant advised that during the week pre-

ceding. 9/23/63, FRANK DELEGGE and MIKE LA JOY had met

with two individuals at a Pan Cake House at Mannheim

and Grand, Franklin Park,

Illinois. One of these indi-

viduals had a 1963 Cadillac and FRANK DELEGGE has a

small green Oldsmobile.

The informant advised LA JOY has a .38 snubnose

revolver, with a concealed hammer and FRANK DELEGGE has

owned a small nickel plated automatic.

On 9/24/63, the informant selected photographs

Of LARRY FLETCHER and JOSEPH D'ARGENTO as being the in-

dividuals who were meeting with FRANK DELEGGE and MIKE

LA JOY at the Pan Cake House.

He stated D' ARGENTO has

a 1963 Cadillac.

-F.-

COVER PAGE

HH 45742

DooId: 32326803

Page 3

---

