# docid-32310356

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/6/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10302-10300

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 63-7112-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO : SAC, LA

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

09/15/1961

4

RK, EMP, MED, ASSOC, TEAMSTERS UNION, BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45827 DocId: 32310356 Page 1

---

## Page 2

9/15/61

15

AIRTIL

5 1961

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach.

Evans -

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

TO:

SACS, LOS ANGELES

ST. LOUIS

MINNEAPOLIS

FROM:

- PIRECTOR, FBI (63-g0w

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; EARL SCHZIE

EARL SCHEE AUTO PAINT SHOPS; ANTIONY DORIA

FRANK A. CATFIELD; DICKCSAVNER

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

(00:LA)

42:16412y

ReLhairtel 9/1/61, captioned "JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; S. GEORGE

BURRIS; FIRST BERKELEY CORPORATION OF NEW YORK; MISCELLANEOUS -

INFORMATION CONCERNING (ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)," urfile

62-5008, Bufile 63-6666, and particularly to page 2 of the enclosure

thereto captioned "EARL SCHZIB" and re page 4 of LAtel dated 8/31/61,

in the same case, which set out information received by Los Angeles

from an informant referred to therein as

as set out below:

S

The informant advised that Anthony Doria who formerly was

associated with the United Automobile Workers of America, American

Federation of Labor (AIL), organized the employees of Barl Scheib

Auto Paint Shops, a nationwide autonobile painting concern, into

that union at an unstated date in the past.

reportedly was transferred later to an independent union which

Doria represented after Doria was ousted by the AFl.

Doria allegedly has been and still is working for Hoffa,

even

though Doria purportedly represents an independent union.

The informant related that scheib's labor contract is now

being taken over by Local 495, Teamsters Union, Los Angeles,

Chlifornia, of which Frank A. Hatfield is the Secretary. Hatfield

was said to be under Hoffa's control and agreeable to signing any

contract Hoffa tells him to signo

This transfer to Local 495 of

Scheib's labor

contract allegedly/was engineered by Dick Kavner,

711

EFK: eem

19221

MCT - 17

UNOTE• The informant

Ithis case is

a former Teamsterslinonbfficial

in

Los Angeles and formerly a close

associate of Hoffa's.

741

TELETYPE UNIT

961

OTHER 4

NW 45827 DocId: 32310356

Page

2

---

## Page 3

AIRTEL TO SACS, LA, SL, VP

RE:: JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA, EARL SCHSIB, etc.

63-new

an international organizer for the Teamsters Union.

Kavner was

reported to be a sick man who wants to leave the Teamsters Union

but Hoffa does not trust Kavner and will not let hin go. Kavner

reportedly is in layo Clinic at the present time and the source

feels that Kavner may be "ripe" for intensified inquiry.

According to the informant Earl Scheib has been paying

Doria regularly during the life of a

"sweetheart" contract.

Scheib

reportedly spends every day at the race track and every night

getting drunk at the Del Monico Restaurant, 828 South Robertson

Boulevard, Los Angeles; which Scheib also owns. Scheib allegedly

loses a lot of money gambling and the informant believes that payoffs

to Doria may be covered in this fashion.

The Bureau has opened a new case, captioned the same

as this airtel, with los Angeles as origin and the field should do

likewise®

A full and complete investigation concerning all of the

afore-mentioned items should be initiated innediately.

Los Angeles should immediately reinterview the informant

to obtain further specifics concerning all of the above-mentioned

matters with particular emphasis on ascertaining, it possible,

his sources and any evidence that might xenist which will establish

that these allegations are true.

The additional information the

informant furnishes concerning this matter should be incorporated

into a letterhead memorandum suitable for dissemination to the

Criminal Division, which should be forwarded to the Bureau by cover

airtel.

the identity of the informant should be concealed therein

and, of course, he should not be referred to as

additlonal information given by the informant also should be utilized

as the basis for further avenues of investigation in this case

a ena Do ut1200

OTHER 4

and appropriate leads based thereon should be set out and covered

immediately.

As stated above the investigation in this case should be

complete and thorough in all respects.

The field should conduct

all logical investigation to determine the veracity of this

information.

It is pointed out that through imaginative and

probative

investigation it may be possible to develop violations of Section 186,

Title 29, U, S,. Code on the part of Schelb, Doria and Hatfield,

Hotta, it it can be established that he has shared

in

any payolf made by scheib to a union official;

02 =

NW 45827 DocId: 32310356

Page

3

---

