# docid-32305250

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10287-10380

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2075

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/22/1967

3

LCN, ASSOC, RES, TRA, DESCR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305250

20

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

VIA TELETYPE

AUG 2 3 1967

ENCIPHERED

URGENT 8-22-67

TO DIRECTOR, DALLAS, KANSAS CITY, OMAHA, NEW YORK AND

WASHINGTON FIELD

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGION

FROM LOS ANGELES

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Defogch

No. 200K

Mr. Giehop

Me. Gallahad

Me Conied,

Mi. Grate

Mer.

Dal bean

Mr. Troches

Tele. Rount

Miss Gandy

LA COSTRA NOSTRA. AR.

9

RE LOS ANGELES RADS TO BUREAU AUGUST EIGHTEEN AND TWENTY-

ONE LAST CAPTIONED, "JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO, AKA. AR.*

FOR INFORMATION ALL OFFICES LA FOUR FOUR SEVEN SIX DASH

C DASH TE WHILE NOT AN LEN MEMBER IS AN ATTORNEY WHO DEVELOPED

A CLOSE BUSINESS AND PERSONAL ACQUAINTANCESHIP WITH THE LATE

LEN BOSS LOS ANGELES, FRANK DESIMONE•

Honese

!

THROUGH DESIMONE INFORMANT WAS TELEPHONICALLY INIRODUCED

гори

TO ONE AL MARSHAL, WHO IS FROM DES MOINES, IOWA, AND RESIDES AT

THE KIRKWOOD HOTEL THAT GEPE9A MARSHAL CLOSE TO DALLAS LEN BOSS

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO.

97-6054-207

DS AUTUST ALUETREE LAST INPOROSNT AND AL TERREL MERLIERE ME NOC

CIVELLO AT THE HILTON HOTEL DALLAS AND DISCUSSED WITH CIVELLO

PLANS OF INFORMANT TO OBTAIN TEAMSTER LOAN WITH WHICH TO

PURCHASE RIVIERA HOTEL, LAS VEGAS, NEVADA• CIVELLO CLAIMED HAD

TWO COPIES TO NEU

57 AUG 291967 U

RELAXED 100

DocId: 32305250

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO FROM LOS ANGELES

NO TEAMSTER CONTACT BUT STATED HE WOULD MAKE ARRANGEMENTS TO

HAVE, INFORMANT INTRODUCED TO HIS GOOD FRIEND IN KANSAS CITY,

NICK CIVELLA, THROUGH AL MARSHAL• CIVELLA IS LCW BOSS KANSAS

CITY •

ARRANGEMENTS WERE TO BE MADE BY MARSHAL FOR INFORMANT

TO FLY TO KANSAS CITY TODAY TO MEET WITH CIVELLA•

YESTERDAY MARSHAL TELEPHONED INFORMANT FROM DALLAS, TEXAS

ADVISING THAT HE AND NICK CIVELLA WERE THEN IN THAT CITY, BUT

WERE GOING TO NEW YORK CITY. INFORMANT WAS INSTRUCTED TO BE

ON STANDBY BASIS TO TRAVEL TO NEW YORK CITY TO MEET WITH

MARSHAL AND CIVELLA AND TO BE INTRODUCED TO AN INDIVIDUAL

THERE WHO COULD OBTAIN TEAMSTER FINANCING•

INFORMANT CURRENTLY AWAITING SUCH INSTRUCTIONS•

IT IS NOTED AL MARSHAL IS KNOWN PERSONALLY TO THREE LEN

BOSSES, ONE OF WHOM IS DECEASED, NAMELY DESIMONE, CIVELLO AND

CIVELLA • HE IS IN CONSTANT TRAVEL STATUS AND HAS BEEN KNOWN

TO HAVE STAYED AT THE FOLLOWING HOTELS: KIRKWOOD HOTEL, DES

MOINES, IOWA 3 HILTON HOTEL, BASSAS, ROOM FIVE TWO ZERO; BEVERLY

MILLCREST HOTEL, LOS ANGELES, ROOM TWO ZERO EIGHT; BROADVIES W

HOTEL, WICHITA, KANSAS, ROOM FOUR TWO NINE ON APRIL FIVE LAST ;

ON APRIL SEVENTEEN LAST GEORGETOWN INN, WASHINGTON, C.C•; ON

JUNE FOURTEEN LAST COMMODORE HOTEL, NEW YORK CITY; ON APRIL

TWENTY-FIVE LAST, HOLIDAY INN, DALLAS, TEXAS AND UNKNOWN DATE,

ST • MORITY HOTEL, NEW YORK CITY •

DocId: 32305250 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

PAGE THREE FROM LOS ANGELES

BECAUSE OF MARSHAL'S LON ASSOCIATIONS SEPARATE AR

INVESTIGATION BEING OPENED ON HIM LOS ANGELES AND ALL OFFICES ARE

REQUESTED TO REVIEW FILES, CONTACT INFORMANIS AND CHECK HOTEL

RECORDS FOR CALLS MADE BY MARSHAL WHILE IN YOUR RESPECIIVE

DIVISIONS.

WHEN SPECIFIC INFORMATION RECEIVED RE TRAVEL BY INFORMANT

TO NEWEYORK CITY, NEW YORK WILL BE REQUESTED TO COVER SUCH

MEETING TO IDENTIFY INDIVIDUAL NO CIVELLA AND MARSHAL INTRODUCE

HIM TO •

MARSHAL DESCRIBED AS WMA, ABOUT SIXTY-FIVE, FIVE FOOT NINE,

ONE TMIRTY-FIVE POUNDS, WHITE THIN MAIR, WEARS ROUND SHAPED

GLASSES, DAPPER DRESSER AND ALWAYS WEARS A HAT•

THIS MATTER WILL BE CLOSELY FOLLOWE/AND THE BUREAU AND

PERTINENT OFFICES KEPT ADVISED.

END

RECEIVED: 11:23 PM LRC

DocId: 32305250 Page 4

---

