# docid-32302985

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10282-10497

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82933-22, 23, 24, 25

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/01/1967

PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS :

DLH, TELCAL, ACA, RES, ASSOC, MED, EMP, RCK, CP ACT,

DESCR, MIL SERV, REL, BKG, WHEREABOUTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 3 MEMO, 2 LHM, 2 ADMIN PAGES

v9.1

ENW 45808

10

DocId: 32302985

Page 1

---

## Page 2

4: 24 4-

MAN 062 UNTO. 10

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6 •

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT CONFIRENTIAI

Memora. dum

TO

- DIRECTOR, FBI (105-82933)

DATE:

4/19/68

FROM

SAC, MIAMI (105-8435) (RUC)

SUBJECT

36

DENNIS LYNN HARBER, aka

IS - CUBA

00:

MIAMI DECLASSIFIED BYSTO

-S 94

here

pol eve

poP L31

Re Omaha letter with enclosure 1/26/68.

Enclosed herewith are 10 copies of a LHM

dated and captioned as above. Two copies are enclosed for Omaha.

Copies of enclosed LHM are being disseminated

locally to the following Federal Agencies:

ALL INFORMAIION CONTAINED

HEROIN 1S UNGEASSIFIED

EXCEDTWHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMAZIONO

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K 7-30-9

SLO/KSK

INS, Miami

State Department (Cuban Affairs), Miami

U. S. Border Patrol, Miami

S. Customs, Miami

S. Customs, Region II

OSI, Robins Air Force Base, Ga.

CIA,

Miami

USAFAD, Hialeah

U. S. Secret Service, Miami

111th M.I. Group, Orlando

Declassity on: ogaie/21/

U. S. Coast Guard, Miami

MM T-1 is!

MM 639-s. (elu

The enclosed LHM is classified Confidential

to better protect a source of continuing value.

Inasmuch as subject is confined to the Psychosis

Ward at the Veterans Administration Hospital, Miami, Florida,

no lurther investigation of th

- Bureau (Enc. 104N(RM) UID

le subject 1stene cels

2 - Omaha (Enc. 2) (100-6327)

1 - Miami

Ice uta end

RJD: pb

(5)

State/CIA/Boc.rot

New Cramon 98-45

12 APR 24 1968

Army/Navy/Air Force/DIA/Cus

BY 0-5-03 168

LATINHA

ERICAN

CamE (VO)

MAY 7

5010-108-01

196,8 U.S. Savings Bond BASt

Tonya Raproll Savings Plan

COPY AND COPY OF ENCI FILED IN

ONUSC

NW 45808 DocId: 32302985 Page 2

---

## Page 3

15

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-107-5

IAY 1962 EDITION

iSA GEÑ. REG. NO. :

UNITED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum

(SECRET

N

TO

FROM

SLD /IlS,

8-27

DATE: 1/26/68

SUBJECT

OBJECTION

• NO

CIA HAS

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

CIA INFORMATION

x7-30-91

DOCUMENT

DENNIS LYNN HARBER,

aka

IS - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

RELEASE

I THIS

$ 23

Re Bureau airtel to Omaha 11/3/67; Deoles

Miami letter to Bureau 12/22/67.

Did.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHBRE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of an LHM

summarizing background and activities of captioned subject.

One copy is furnished to Miami since subject may return

to that area.

Omaha, by FD 376.

One copy is being furnished to Secret Service,

LHM is classified

confidential since data reported

from fourth source could reasonably msuit in identification of

source of continuing value and compromise the future effectiveness

thereof.

Nations

It also reflects Bureaus interest in a United

oFricial.](5)

DOW IMLEFT DIA'

INFORMANTS

Identity

First Source:

GODY

in

OTHER

OADR

1211,726

Clessified b

Declassily

Location

ОМ 100-6327-3

1o0 claremont Avenue

CLASSIFIED BY 56b& SLidI

New York City

Instructor Columbia University

/ DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(request)

Copy to: CIA/sedto/RAOISO 06A/ DE

Second Source:

FRANK SISEL

13/95741 / 100-627 Vero, Sonce

Admissions Office Date2-2

by routing slip for infey

Copy to epico (battenel)

VA Hospital

Kansas City, Mo.,

to her nip for

(request)

date 2 - 7-

by UHNid

Third Source:

American Consulate

REE. TR

OM 100-6327-10

Veracruz

сти зі мед .8

105-82933-24

2 - Bureau (Enc.-9) (REGISTERED): 001A 90

1 - Miamia

2 - OmahaN In he S4) (REGISTERET

BEG

Quer nin

HE TRY SANO TA CO

29: 1968

88 16 1968

(SECRET"

THE GET DIA

TCAN

UNREC

NW 45808 DocId: 32302985

Page

4

---

## Page 4

SECRET:

OM 100-6327

Fourth Sourge:

Miami 639-S CU

Fifth Source:

Mrs. ROSLYN LIFSHITZ

Legal Division

VA Hospital

252 7th Avenue

New York City (request)

Sixth Source:

Mr. DON CONNELLEY

Registrar

VA Hospital

Omaha, Nebraska

(request)

÷

OM 100-6327-13

OM 100-6327-3

OM 100-6327-9

Confidential informants who were contacted in

No Sa-54, 9 367-5, 1 646-57 555-54-15)

and could furnish no information were

Inasmuch as subject is an admitted alcoholic and

known homosexual, no request is being made to interview him.

It is also noted that he did not tell the truth to Agents

during a prior interview in May, 1959.

REVIEWED BY FAJFK TASK FORCE

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

SECRETI

2.

585-19888

: NW 45808 DocId: 32302985 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONX UNTIAL

' UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET.

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

S2314

Classie

Declass

Omaha, Nebraska

January 26, 1968

05 PMo

211326

Classified by

Declassity, on: GADR3/59/85

5668

112.

CLASSIFIED BY

DECLASSIFY ON: 25

Re: DENNIS, LYNN HARBER

On September 17, 1959,

a source who has furnished

reliable

information in the past advised that at a party

in New York in June,

1958, Dennis Harber, 454 West 22nd

Street,

New York City,

English instructor

Berlitz School of Languages in New York, and Leonid A.C5

Kovaler became quite

friendly.

At this party Harber

became quite intoxicated and started talking about

communisn.

He appeared to speak with authority and

knowledge

on communist activities in Spain. The source

advised that he

had heard Harber had undergone psychiatric

treatment in a Veterans Adrinistration (VA) Hospital

the New York City area. (p)

The publication

(staft of the United (5J

Nations Secretariat: Report of the Secretary LS

General" dated September,

1959, rellects

that (Soviet Leonid Kovaley was

employed (S]

as

(translator-trainee at

the U.N.

secretariat, (5)

On

May

3,

1959,

an individual identifying

himself

as Dennis I. Harber

telephoned the FBI office

in Kansas

City and advised that be had spent several

in South America

and in. Cuba and had been

unofficially connected

with a political group in

Cuba which had opposed Fidel Castro..

Harber advised that

his home was New York and

that he had arrived in Kansas

City, Missouri, on April

1959, and checked in at

the Pickwick Hotel. About

11:30 p.I. on April 28, 1959,

he left the hotel and

was stopped by four men who

spoke to him in Spanish.

Two of these men had guns and with the guns forced

him into & car and drove away.

said he jumped from

the

car and hurt himself but escaped from these men.

AIT INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSTFIER

EXCEPT WIISTE CH

'SECRET

from entomatit

•ond

cation

ENCLOSURI

105-82932.24

NW 45808 DocId: 32302985

Page 5

---

