# docid-32307242

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10382

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-75147-210-58

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, HAVANA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

11/09/1954

1

SUBJECTS :

NRO, EMP, ASSOC, SMO, B/F INT, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENT'S :

v9.1

DocId: 32307242

Page

1

---

## Page 2

INFORMATION CONTAI

IS

UNCLASS

**.

engedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

2107

Hotel

Office Mer

dum UNITED

5

GOVER

NMENT

TO

Director, FBI

SECRETI

Alr.

Tolsor

DATE:

Nove

ber Mr. Bosnap

HaVi

elmont.

FROM

Vir:

Legal Attache, Havana, Cuba

(64-753)

MP. Barbo

Sohr

tsons

T8S

IN CUBA

AVERICAN. GAMBLING ACTIVITIES

STIF - Culri

400)

Tolk

MI. EDWARD

"TED"

SCOTT, columnist for th

Singleh tanguage dasty savana Post and a ad contact of this office

confidentially advised that on that date he had received a telephone cill

from Mr. GEORGE

PENNINGTON, Democratic State Committee, 27 South 3rd St.

Harrisburga

Nr. SCOTT said that PENNINGTON told him that columnist

DREW FEARSON had suggested SCOTT's name to him and PENNINGTON thep made

Inquiries of scow concerning the activities in Havana of NORMANKROTHMAN

FBI NO. 152585B4-60M

Petition

Fit will be recalled that for the past several years ROTHAN,

This office,

has been the front man at the Sans Souci night club

• In Havanad uring at least a part of this time RoTHAN was reliably

reported to be bankrolled by the SaMey

XLANNARINO interests of New Kensington,

HEREIN

Pae It in thought possible that Mr. PENNINTONe interest may hid

some Pennsylvanda political problet Involving AWARIN. (

MrazsCotT advised that he told PENNINGTON nothing on the telephon

about ROTHAN but suggested that PENNINGTON write him a letter suggesting

what he desired to know.

SCOTT has subsequently advised that he never

receiped the letter.

On October 20, 1954 SCOTT advised that ROTHAN had inquired 6e

him concerning a good bank to deposit $25,000.

ROTHAN intimated to SCOrT

that he wanted this to be more or less a hideout bank account and scort

recoumended him to the Bank of Nova Scotia and believes that ROTHAN made

the, depostt there.

Ithis rather doubted that this twenty-five thousand doller leppelt l

aay spectal significance as it has come to the attention of th's one:

that RoTHANy since closing the sans soucian April 19549

has been ena-

siderally in debt and owes money all over Havana, and it is thought that

he was looking for a new bank in which to make a deposit in order that his

creditore would not be aware of the fact that hedgow has money.

ROTFIAN on

October 25, 1954 advised Agents of this office that he hopes to be able to

open the sans Souci in late December 1954 andvindicated that he would

to be permitted to operate.

The above ie lor

the altaurs infomation.

Two extra

copies

this atter are attached for forwarding

Top information purposes since POkAN is well known

by the Bureau to ch

And a reac

RECORDED-52

INDEXED-52

TO NO

DATES/

CDA: JES

NOV 26 1954

DocId: 32307242 Page 2

---

