# docid-32292193

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/30/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10208-10469

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3267-61, 62

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

DODGE, HAROLD F.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/18/1960

22

JRO, RES, ASSOC, B/F INT, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC RPT

19.1

DocId: 32292193

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-113

On 6/29/60, the Bureau forwarded a copy of

ROSSELLI's identification record whereon it was indicated

that on 6/20/60,

1s being

set out for Chicago Office to ascertain the

reason

that the North Chicago Police Department requested

ROSSELLI's record.

INFORMANTS

vegas H

LA T-I IS EVERETT STANHOUSE, Assistant Operation:

Officer, California Bank, Highland-Santa Monica

Branch, Los Angeles, California.

LA I-2 1s LA 4145-C.

LA T-8 1s G. J. CARTER, Assistant Manager,

California Bank, 9441 Wilshire Boulevard, BeverLy

Hills, Califomia.

LA I-12 1s LA 4129-C.

LA T=19 IS DON L. BISLING, Assistant Vice President,

Fidelity Bank, 9570 Wilshire Boulevard, Beverly

Hills, California.

LA I-20 1s DAVID S. LE FEVER, Accounting Department,

Union Bank and Trust Company, Eighth and Hill,

Los Angeles, California.

LA T-21 1s Mrs. MEL COOPER, Desert Inn Road, Las

Vegas,

Nevada,

who furnished information to SA

BYRON C. WHEELER on 5/23/60.

LA T-22 Is BELDON KATLEMAN, PCI, owner, El Rancho

Vegas Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada to SA M. B.

PARKER.

LA T-23 Is JAMES KELLY, Auditor,

Las Vegas, Nevada®

Bank of Nevada,

LEADS

CHICAGO

AT NORTH CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. 1. Will contact the

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32292193 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Releaset under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records ColTection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2109 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-113

North Chicago Police Department to determine, if possible,

the reason why this Department, on 6/20/60, requested the

criminal record of JOHN ROSSELLI:

2. Will report information received from JOHN

MC CARTEN, Vice President, People's National Bank, 8 North

Ogden Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, regarding two checks drawn

on this bank

and set forth in the referenced report of

SA HAROLD F. DODGE dated 4/13/60. It is noted that Chicago

memorandum to Los Angeles dated 5/31/60, stated that on

5/22/60, MC CARTEN had been requested to ascertain this

information.

3. Will ascertain whether the account of LOUIS

J. LEDERER at the People's National Bank was charged in

May of 1960 with a $1500 1tem, it being noted that ROSSELLI,

in the past,

has received checks in the amount of $750 on

a monthly basis from LEDERER and that he deposited a $1500

check drawn on the People's National Bank of Chicago during

May, 1960•

SALT LAKE CITY

AT LAS VEGAS, NEVADA. Referenced report of SA

HAROLD F.

DODGE contained a lead to reinterview Informant

SU 266-C

to ascertain the identity of the individual who

accompanied ROSSELLI to Reno, Nevada, in about the middle

of January,

1960.

By memorandum dated 6/7/60, Salt Lake

City advised that this informant number is in error.

informant was originally obtained from Salt Lake City memo-

randum

to Los Angeles dated 3/15/60.

Salt Lake City

requested to ascertain correct informant number and handle

lead as originally requested.

PHOENIX

AT PHOENIX, ARIZONA•

Through available sources will

ascertain the ownership of the Sands Hotel or Motel Ir

Phoenix, Arizona, it being noted that information was received

Nevada, has an interest in

LOS ANGELES

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA. 1. Will maintain contact

C

COVER PAGE

1998.194831

DocId: 32292193 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aèt of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Tote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA. 92-113

with LA 4145-C, 3445-0 and 4129-0 for information concerning

ROSSELLI'S activities.

2. Will maintain contact with the following banks

for information concerning ROSSELLI's activities:

California Bank, Highland-Santa Monica Branch,

where

ROSSELLI has his personal bank account;

California Bank, Beverly Hills, Branch, 9441 Wilshire

Boulevard, Beverly Hills, where JAMES CANTILLION

maintains a trustee account;

Fidelity Bank; 9570 Wilshire Boulevard, Beverly

H11ls, where ROSSELLI maintains a personal bank

account;

Union Bank and Trust Company where EMANUEL ROTHMAN

maintains

a client trust account which has been

used for transfering money to Marina, Inc.

COVER PAGE

508-10488

DocId: 32292193

Page 4

---

