# docid-32165553

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10158-10078

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-82555-1ST NR 5043

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

DEBRUEYS, WARREN C.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/18/1964

10

LHO, PRE-RP, ASSOC, MIL SERV

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/07/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32165553

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

8: 10-888 (Rer 31-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIS SECRET DATE

NEW ORLEANS

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7/9/64 - 9/10/64

OREST PENA, Aka.

9/18/64

REPORT MADE BY

SA WARREN C. DE BRUEYS

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPEL

: ja

IS - CUBA

REFERENCES:

Report of SA WARREN C. DE BRUEYS, 7/17/64,

at New Orleans.

St. Louis letter to the Bureau, 8/25/64.

Miami letter to New Orleans: 8/31/64.

Bureau

4/1203

airtel to New Orleans

7/21/64.

No airtel to Director, 7/30/64.

Clacsified by

9903 es6А

Legat, Paris letter to Bureau, ?/27/64.

Legat, Bonn letter

to Bureau,

7/30/64.

Declassity on: DAR JFK

Legat, Rome letter to Bureau,

8/11/64.

New Orleans letter to Bureau,

9/10/64.

GENCIES

"NG

LEADS:

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

ATLANTA DIVISION

MIZ INFORMATION CONTAINED AT COLUMBUS, GEORGIA

WEFEAT UNCLASSIFTED EXCEPT

Will expedite coverage of lead set forth for the

A

APPROVED

SPEC!AL AGENT

IN

CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

•10 - Bureau (REGISTERED MAIL)

(1 - 105-82555, OSWALD)

1 - INS, New Orleans (RM)

- Atlanta

(REGISTERED MAIL)

2

- Dallas (REGISTERED MAIL)

(Info.)

(1 - 100-10461, OSWALD)

2 - New York (REGISTERED MAIL)

2 - New Orleans (105-1926)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105-82555

NOT RECORDED

178 SEP 21 1964

MEL UNGKASTENENY

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY...

REQUEST RECD,

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD..

BY..

NOfATIONS

CLASSIFIED BY

EXBYPT FRO

GDS C1

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INDESINITE

SECRET, 7/5/77 thi

U.8. GOVIRHGENT PRINTING OFFICE

10-76324-1

DocId: 32165553 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NO 105-1925

WDC: jas

Atlanta Division in referenced New Orleans report.

NEW YORK DIVISION

AT NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK

Will expedite coverage of leads set forth in

referenced New Orleans report dated 7/17/64 and will also

report pertinent information regarding this subject con-

tained in the report of SA J. WILLIAM LOVE dated 11/30/62

at New. York and captioned, "CUBAN SABOTAGE EFFORTS IN THE

UNITED STATES" (New York file #105-58712). New York should

submit results of investigation in report form.

INFORMANTS:

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

NO T-1 is the Prefecture of

Police

in Paris, Francels)

NO T-2 is the Spanish High

General Staff, Madrid, Spairs)

NO T-3 is the Directorate

General of Security, Madrid,

Spain

NO T-4 is the Italian Armed-

Forces

(SIFAR)

Intefligence Service

6p(0)

FILE WHERE LOCATED

NO file 105-1926-26

NO file 105-1926-26

NO file 105-1926-26

NO file 105-1926-28

B*:

(COVER PAGE)

SECRET

165-82555-15TN2S043

DocId: 32165553

Page 3

---

## Page 4

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File No.:

Titl :

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ALL INCONCATION CONTAIBER

SECRET

WEENE SHOWA

OTHERWISE

1 - Immigration and Naturalization Service,

New Orleans, Louisiana

(REGISTERED MAIL)

SA WARREN C.. DE BRUEYS

Office:

NEW ORLEANS

September 18, 1964

NO 105-1926

OREST PENA

National

equested

Bureau File No.:

6/4/89

Class. by 15.65 SDP/AHR

Nose: only

Synopsis:

Scenes tas

DCAALL SPP/AHR

Date of Review OADR

AGREED - 9803

Character:

ROO /ISR

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

3-3-93

JFK SPECIA!

Military records re subject reveal he was inducted

Into the U.s. Army 1/28/49 at New York, N. Y., and

served on active duty until 1/27/50 on which date

he was honorably discharged from active duty and

transferred to U.S. Army Reserve Corps until

6/12/54 when he was honorably discharged. Subject

validated for emergency service in U. S. Merchant

Marine and

issued Merchant Marine Document #

Z- 1068920.

Merchant Marine records for subject for

period 2/55 through 10/57 set forth. Subject's

identification record set forth.

Information

received from confidential source abroad re subject's

past travel in Europe fails to reflect any pertinent

contacts made by subject during such travel.

The person who allegedly made the allegation on which

this investigation was based, namely, that subject

in the past planned to travel to Europe and Moscow,

advised that he has been unable to develop any

information to change

river

IS anti-CASTRO^

usource's

opinion that subject

GROUP 1

Excluded

am automatic

downgrading

assd

DETAILS:

declassification

A review of the military service records on file

at the Military Personnel Records

Center, St. Louis,

Missouri,

for ORESTES FARNICIO PENA, Serial Number 51 061 050,

indicated

he was inducted into the U. S. Army on January

: 28,

1949 at New York, New York, and served on active duty until

January 27, 1950, at which

time he was honorably released from

SECRET

105-82575 ISTNAJOYS

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the

FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; It and

its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32165553 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

WCD: Jas

105-1926

On July 9, 1964, NO T-I, a confidential source

abroad, revealed that subject resided at the Grand Hotel,

2 rue Scribe, Paris 9, from May 6-12, 1964. Source advised

that since that date

he has no longer been present in the

Paris, France area.

Source added that subject is unknown

to the

records of the various

services of the Prefecture of

Police in Paris:

During his briet stay in Paris he did no

come to the attention of the French authoritiesS

On July 20, 1964, NO T-2, a confidential source

abroad, revealed that subject arrived in Madrid, Spain, on

May 12, 1964 at Barajas Airport (Madrid).: He took up

residence at the Hotel Plaza,

Madrid, where he remained until

May 22, at which time he departed from the hotél.

His

destination was unknown but it was

believed that he had left

Spain at that time. Source advised that subject did

not come

to security notice

Spanish records

reflected that he was the bearer of U. S. passport #92577

issued to him in Washington, D. C. on June 25, 1963.

arrived in Spain under the auspices' of the American

Company Travel Agency (S)

Express

source abroad, revealed substantially the same ideotation

NO T-3, a confidential

supplied by confidential source NO T-26

Instant source

added, however, that Spanish records reflected that subject

was born August 15, 1923 in the United States and that

his permanent place

Orleans, Louisiana. ( (U)(S)

residence was listed by him as New

Confidential informant NO T-4, a confidential

source abroad, advisad at tollets on August 7, 1964: #(44)

ORESTES PENA, born August 15, 1923, in Cuba,

a United States citizen, arrived at Fiumicino Airport,

Rome, Italy, on Trans World Airlines flight number 900

on May 22, 1964, coming from Madrid, Spain. PENA bore

passport number D-092577, issued at

Washington, D. C.,

on June 25,,

1963.

While in Rome, PENA lodged at the Hotel

Commodoro. & (2)

105-82055H9TN2SO43

(Source should he proticted on come py, B)

DocId: 32165553 Page 5

---

