# docid-32334788

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90118-10147

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2897-59

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 08/08/1959

PAGES:

25

SUBJECTS :

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

V9.!

HW 45922

DocId: 32334788

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Roport Form

7D-263 (5-17-55)

=

FEDERAL 8

UREAU OF INVESTIGATON

Reporting Offloo

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

Offico of Origia

DALLAS

HARRY RAYMOND POPE,

aka. -

FUGITIVE, I. O. No.

3285

2035268618

Dato

: 8/8/59

Izvestigativo Postod

5/25 - 7/30/59

Boport taedo as

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

CHARACTER OF CASE

UNLAWFUL FLIGHT TO AVOID

PROSECUTION - BURGLARY;

ASSAULT WITH A DANGEROUS WEAPON

REFERENCES

Typed

8C

Dallas airtel to Bureau,

Dallas airtel to

Dallas airtel to

(interoirice).

St. Louis airtel to Houston,

Houston airtel to Dallas, 7/2/59,

Salt Lake City airtel to

Bureau airtel to Dallas, 7/14/59.

7/2/59, (Interoffice).

St. Louls letter to Dallas, 7/17/59, (interoffice).

Dallas airtel to New. Orleans, 7/21/59, (Interoffice).

Oklahoma City airtel to Phoenis, 7/20/59, (interoffice).

Approved

Copios made:

SEE NEXT PAGE

DI 88-2749

sits

LEADS

Bpeelal Age

• Chang

Do sot tralto ta spanse bab

92-2897-59

REG 26

12 AUG 10 1959

50 10 19 1959

Property of FBI - Thia report la locued lo fou by too FBI, and nalther it nor its contonts aro to bo dletributed outaldo the agendy to waica loci

#U. O. OOVERNMENT PRINTINO OFPICES 1000 O DAAYBO

NN 45922 DocId: 32334788 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DI: 88-2749

ST. LOUIS

AT ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI

Will locate and interview PAT CHESTER PAULOS, FBI NO.

2504640, and MAE VESTAL, FBI No. 1654641, for information concerning

recent or present whereabouts of POPE.

SALT LAKE CITY

AT LAS VEGAS, NEVADA

(1) Will locate and interview POPE's present wife, PEGGY

GAFFORD, through Post Office Box 127, Las Vegas. ' Will arrange

coverage of GAFFORD for any possible future contacts by POPE.

(2) Through sources and informants who know GAFFORD will

attempt to determine if POPE and/or FRYE have been In contact with

her in Las Vegas.

DALLAS

AT ARLINGTON, TEXAS

(1)

Will make inquiry at a bar known as Judge Roy Beans, an

alleged former hangout of POPE.

(2) W1l1 make a thorough search of the personal belongings of

Information which may lead to POPE'

former wife of POPE and has remained an associate of his since their

divorce.

AT CELINA, TEXAS

W1l1 Interview Mrs. DESSIE JOHNS, grandmother of PEGGY ANN

FRVE and custodian of FRYE's child, to ascertain if FRYE has been or

1s presently in contact with JOHNS..

will arrange coverage of JOHNS

for any possible future contact by FRYE.

AT FARMERSVILLE, TEXAS

Will maintain contact with DL-91-0 for possible information

concerning POPE's present whereabouts.

AT GRAFORD, TEXAS

Will attempt to locate and interview associate CECIL

BROWN, last known phone number 92-F-21, Graford, and who supposedly

has had or presently does own a cabin on Possum Kingdom Lake.

-D -

Cover Page

HW 45922

DocId: 32334788

Page 3

---

## Page 4

DI. 88-2749

(8) W1l1 identify and Interview SAM HOUSTON and TILDA JANE

CORZINE.

Will attempt to determine If they have Information or are

in contact with POPE.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Numerous PCI's and CI's of the Dallas Office and CI's of

the Kansas City and Salt Lake City offices have been contacted con-

cerning the whereabouts of POPE and FRYE with negative results. The

identities of these informants, the dates of contact, and the name of

the agent contacting them are on file in the Dallas Office.

following positive information was obtained from informant contacts.

On 5/27/59 PCI

who has furnished reliable

character who works at the Derrick Cafe on Northeastern Street in

Oklahoma City. PCI stated he is basing this on past knowledge of POPE

and that he definitely knows POPE has contacted BARKER in the past.:

on 6/10/59 DL-90-C, who has furnished reliable information

in the past, advised SA ROBERT M. BARRETT that POPE and FRYE are

acquainted with one JOE OLIVERO, believed identical with JOSEPH OLIVERO,

aka.,.

FBI No. 81060, Kansas City, Missouri. This Information was

furnished the Kansas City Office and subsequently Kansas City advised

that no pertinent information had been developed concerning this

possible contact of POPE.

OTHER 4

on 6/16/59 DL-95-C, who has furnished reliable information

in the past, advised SA ROBERT M. BARRETT he had information that

approximately a week prior POPE and FRYE had been seen in St. Louls,

Missouri, and POPE was in contact with MAE VESTAL, former Dallas

police character.

It was subsequently ascertained that VESTAL was

believed married to PAT PAULOS, a former Houston police character.

On 6/15/59 PCI L

with whom contact has

been insufficient to determine the reliability of his information,

advised SA ROBERT C. LISH he had information that POPE had returned

to Fort Worth, Texas, about 6/11/59 from California or Las Vegas anc

was in contact with Dallas police characters WESLEY BENTLEY (k11lec

by police 7/28/59, Arlington, Texas) and CARL MAIN, BENTLEY, (WESLEY

BENTLEY is married to POPE's former wife, LILA JO METZ.) Informant

further advised that POPE was supposedly staying in Fort Worth with

one "BLACKIE" NORRIS and hanging out at the Liberty Bar, Fort Worth.

on 6/16/59 PCIL

Jadvised that on 6/16/59 POPE, from Fort

Worth, had made telephonic contact with someone in Dallas.

on 6/25/59 former Dallas PCI

with whom contact has been insufficient to judge the reliability of

his information but who is well acquainted with POPE, advised SA

_F-

Cover Page

HH 45922 DocId: 32334788

Page 4

---

## Page 5

DI 88-2749

ROBERT M. BARRETT he had learned POPE was hiding out near a lake

near Shreveport, Louisiana, and FRYE was with him.

there was a "bookie joint"

where POPE spent considerable time.

erate ts lo atson

stated that on 6/23/59 a person known to him only as NU ARTHUR Of

Oklahoma, was in Dallas en route to the West Coast and

Muskogee'left POPE at the lake in Louisiana.

had just

On 7/13/59 DL-95-C advised he believed ARTHUR was Identical

with one CHARLIE ARCHER, a Muskogee, Oklahoma, police character.

on 7/10/59 PCIL

_who has furnished reliable

Information in the past, advised SA JAVES W. BOOKHOUT that he had

heard POPE was hiding out in or near Fort Worth, Texas, and was in

contact with LOIS ANN VINCENT, widow of FLOYD EDWIN VINCENT.

on 7/15/59 DL-105-C, who has furnished reliable information

in the past, advised SA MILTON L. NEWSOM that he had heard through

underworld

sources that POPE had been in Fort Worth, Texas, sometime

within the previous two-week period. Informant stated POPE will not

stay in any one place for any length of time and will be continually

on the move. He

along the "

stro tat does to eat to men recently

OTHER 4

On 7/16/59 DL-91-C, who has furnished rellable information

in the past, advised SA ALFRED D. NEELEY that DL-91-C had recently

been in contact with ANGELO THOMAS CASTEN, Fort Worth police character

and known associate of POPE. CASTEN had said that sometime within the

past two weeks he had been visited by PEGGY ANN FRYE and that FRYE had

said that she and POPE were hiding out near a lake and intimated this

lake was located in East Texas.

cerning POPE casually dropped

the names of two persons who might know

his whereabouts as CECIL, a Dallas pimp, and LESTER, a Fort Worth

police character.

From past investigation it 1s believed CECIL is

identical with CECIL BROWN and LESTER is identical with LESTER

HANCOCK.

on 7/17/59 DL-95-C advised that CECIL BROWN has a cabin on

Possum Kingdom Lake.

On 6/9/59 Chief Special Agent R. A. BURROW, Southwester

Bell Telephone Company, Dallas, furnished the following information t

SA ROBERT C. LISH on a confidential basis, requesting that his identity

as the source of this information be kept confidential. This information

concerns toll calls charged to the below listed telephones.

Late change to the on ot

(1) Charge to the phone of MARJORIE LOFTICE, FL2-3245.

Date

1/9/59

2/4/59

2/4/59

From

To

Dallas, FL2-3245

Houston, WA3-2549

Dallas, FL2-3245

Houston, JA8-5009

Dallas, FL2-3245

Houston

JA8-5009

-G_

Cover Page

HW 45922

DocId: 32334788

Page 5

---

