# docid-32273629

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

9/22/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

NARA

RECORD NUMBER:

181-10002-10017

RECORD SERIES :

NL READING FILES 1975-76

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: NARA

FROM: RHOADS, JAMES B.

TO :

[Restricted]

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/05/1975

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 54545 Date:

10-12-2017

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

ACCESS TO MATERIALS LOCATED IN PRESIDENTIAL

LIBRARY SYSTEM

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Consulted

Withhold

08/06/1993

v9.1

HH 54545

DocId: 32273629

53

Page

1

---

## Page 2

JUN 5

1975

Mr. John P. Blake

Deputy Director for

Administration

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C.

20505

Dear Mr. Blake:

In response to your letter of May 20, 1975, concerning a request

by the Commission on CIA Activities Within

the United States for

acoess to CIA materials located in the Presidential library system,

we have notified the directors of the various Presidential libraries

and have asked them to cooperate with the Commission's representatives

In any way possible.

A copy of your letter authorizing access to

the materials "regardless of classification" was included with our

notice to the libraries.

Since CIA materials may be found in numerous files among a library's

holdings, It will be necessary for a library staff member to work

closely with the Cormission's representative to Identify the perti-

nerto material and to correlate these materials with documenta from

other agencies whose permission for access has bean sought and

Therefore, in order to facilitate access, Mr. David W.

Belin, Executive Director of the Commission, should contact the

library directors individually regarding specific arrangements for

authorized members of the Comnission staff to visit a particular

library.

A list of the Presidential libraries, their addresses, and the names

of thelt directors is attached. If there is any way in which I may

be of further assistanée, please don't hesitate to call.

Sincerely,

Ganes BRoader

JAMES B. RHOADS

Archivist of the United States

Enclosure

BBeasley/sb 6/4/75

cc: Official file - NLV

NLT

NLE

NLK

NIJ

Day file - N

Reading file - NL

NL

HH 54545 DocId: 32273629 Page 2

---

