# docid-32273857

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

9/22/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: NARA

RECORD NUMBER :

181-10002-10245

RECORD SERIES:

NL ADMINISTRATIVE FILES [ACCESS AND REFERENCE CASE FILES]

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

NARA

FROM:

JACOBS, RICHARD A.

TO :

RHOADS, JAMES B./

TITLE :

Released under the

Tohn F

Recorda

144

54545

ate: 10-12-2017

USC

DATE: 06/04/1975

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS:

ACCESS AUTHORIZATIONS FOR ROCKEFELLER

COMMISSION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/16/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

1p. route slip w/attached route slip,; letter Rhoads to CIA 6/5/75 w/attached list of Presidential Library

contacts; CIA to Rhoads 5/20/75 Ip, 2 copies; memo Jacobs to Library Directors 6/5/75 1p, 2 copies.to

Rhoads 5/2

v9.1

HH 54545

DocId: 32273857

Page 1

80

---

## Page 2

ROUTING AND TRANSMITTAL SLIP

1 TO (Name, office symbol or location)

-Dr. James B. Rhoads- -

3

LACTION

Fan incunte

DATE

COORDINATION

6/5

INITIALS FILE

DATE TINFORMATION

INITIALS ARTURANO

DATE

PER SATION

INITIALS SEE ME

DATE

SIGNATURE

REMARKS

I took the liberty of preparing this in final form;

you have not seen a draft version.

We have received similar authorizations from other

agencies (OSD and DIA) for access for the

Rockefeller. Commission. These agencies have

notified the libraries directly.

Please noteNL's memo notifying the libraries

of CIA's authorization.

Do NOT use this form as a RECORD of approvals, concurrences,

lisapprovals, clearances, and similar actions

FROM (Name, offige symbol of location

DATE

6/4/75

8H0 662-3512

GPO: 1972 0 - 479-087

5041-101

100-11.201

HH 54545 DocId: 32273857 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ROUTING AND TRANSMITTAL SLIP

I TO (Name, office

symbol or location)

NL

HACTION

INITIALS CIRCULATE

FDATE COORDINATION

INITIALS FILE

DATE

INFORMATION

INITIALS NOTE ANI

RETURI

DATE PIERSaTION

INITIALS SEE ME

DATE

SIGNATURE

REMARKS

Do NOl use this form as a RECORD of approvals, concurrences.

disapprovals, clearances, and sinilar actions

FROM (Name, office symbol or location)

DATE

PHONE

OPTIONAL FORM 47

AUGUST 1967

G5A FPMR (41CFR) 100-11.208

018--18-81594-1

552-103

5041-101

HH 54545

DocId: 32273857

Page 3

---

## Page 4

JUN 5

1975

Mr. John I. Blake

Deputy Director for

Administration

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C.

20505

Dear Mr. Blake:

In response to your letter of May 20, 1975, concerning a request

by the Commision on CIA Activities Within

the United States for

access to CIA materials located in the Presidential library system,

we have notified the directors of the various Preoidential libraries

and have asked them to cooperate with the Commiesion's representatives

In any way possible. A copy of your letter authorizing access to

the materials "regardless of classification" was included with our

notice to the libraries.

Since CIA materials may be found in numerous files among a library's

holdings, It will be necessary for a libraty staff member to work

closely with the Commission's representative to identify the perti-

nent material and to correlate these materials with documents from •

other agencies whose permission for access has bean sought and

granted.

Therefore, In order to facilitate access, Mr. David W.

Belin, Executive Director of the Commission, should contact the

Library directors individually regarding specific arrangements for

authorized mombers of the Commission staff to visit a particular

library.

A list of the Presidential libraries, their addresses, and the names

of their directors is attached.

If there is any way in which I may

be of further assistance, please don't hesitate to call.

Sincerely,

Caster BRloade

JAMES B. RHOADS

Archivist of the United States

Enclosure

BBeasley/sb 6/4/75

cc: Official file - NEV

NLT

NLE

NLK

NLJ

Day file - N

Reading file - NL

NL

HH 54545 DocId: 32273857 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Library

Harry S. Truman Library

Independence, MO 64050

Director

DI. Benedict K. Zobrist

Telephone Number

816-833-1400

Dwight D. Hisenhower Library

Abilene, KS 67410

DI. John E. Wickman

913-827-9738

John F. Kennedy Library

380 Trapelo Road

Waltham, MA 02154

Mr. Dan H. Fenn, Jr.

617-223-7250

Lyndon B. Johnson Library

2313 Red. River

Austin, IX 78705

Mr. Harry S. Middleton

512-397-5137

54545

DooId: 32273857

Page

---

## Page 6

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

2 8 MAY 1975

Received NA-N

MAY 27 19751

20 MAY 1975

Dr. James B. Rhoads

Archivist of the United States

National

Archives and Records Service

Room 111, Archives

Building

Ith and Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.

Washington, D.C.

20408

Dear Dr. Rhoads:

in the course ot preparing their report, the staff of

the Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States

has indicated a need to have access to CIA material

either

located in or designated for storage in Presidential

Libraries.

As you are undoubtedly aware, a good deal ot

this material is maintained on a segregated basis at CIA's

Archives and Records Center.

Other

material is actually

located

in the libraries under your custody.

The matter of access to these documents has been raised

with Mr. Colby and he has requested that I

ask you to make

whatever

arrangements are necessary to permit access to any

CIA material in the Presidential Library system upon the re-

quest of Mr.

David W. Belin, Executive Director of the Com-

mission staff or by any other staff member designated by him.

It is our desire that such access be permitted regardless of

classification of the documents and in any manner that would

be consistent with your procedures.

If it would be helpful

to you, I would be pleased to assist in facilitating arrange-

ments between the Commission staff and whomever you designate

this

matter.

Sincerely,

John F. Blake

Deputy Director

Administration

HH 54545

DooId:32273857

Page 6

---

## Page 7

JUN 5

1975

NL

Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States

Directors, NLI, NLE, NLK, NLJ

The Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States has requested

permission for access to CIA material located in the holdings of the

Presidential libraries. Mr. John F. Blake, Deputy Director for Admin-

Istration in CIA, has informed us that permission has been granted to

authorized representatives of the Commission for access to CIA documents

"regardless of classification," and has asked the cooperation of the

various libraries Involved.

In the event that you are contacted by Mr. David W. Belin, Executive

Director of the Commission, pleaae inform him of whatever

and/or procedures may be necessary to facilitate access by Commission

staff members to CIA materials located in your holdings.

A copy of

CIA's letter of authorization and of our response to Mr. Blake is

enclosed.

RICHARD A. JACOBS

Deputy Assistant Archivist

for Presidential Libraries

Enclosures

BBeasley/sb 6/4/75

cc: Official file - NL

Reading file - NL

HW 54545

DocId: 32273857

Page

---

## Page 8

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHEGTON, D.C. 20505

 8 MAY 1975

Received NA-N

MAY 27 1975/

20 MAY 1975

DI. James B. Rhoads

Archivist of the United States

National. Archives and Records Service

Room 111, Archives Building

7th and Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W:

Washington, D.C. 20408

Dear Dr. Rhoads:

In the

course of preparing their report, the staff of

the Commission on CIA Activities Within the United

States

has indicated a need to have access to CIA material either

located in or designated for storage in Presidential

Libraries.

As you are undoubtedly aware, a

good deal

of

this material is maintained on a segregated basis at CIA's

Archives and Records Center.

Other material is actually

• located in the libraries under your custody.

The matter of access to these documents has been raised

with Mr. Colby and he has requested that I ask you to make

whatever arrangements are necessary to permit access to any

CIA material in the Presidential Library system upon the re-

quest of Mr. David W. Belin, Executive Director of the Com-

mission staff or by any other staff member designated by him.

It is our desire that such access be permitted regardless of

classification of the documents and in any manner that would

be consistent with your procedures.

If it would be helpful

to you, I would be pleased to assist in facilitating arrange-

ments between the Commission staff and whomever you designate

to work on this matter.

Sincerely,

the 7. Bal

John F. Blake

Deputy Director

for

Administration

1778-1976

NN 54545 DocId:32273857 Page

---

## Page 9

•

DATE:

JUN 5

1975

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION

National Archives and Records Service

Washington, DG 20408

RATTN OF NI

SUBJECT: Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States

Directors, NLT, NLE, NLK, NLJ

The Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States has requested

permission for access to CIA material located in the holdings of the

Presidential libraries. Mr. John F. Blake, Deputy Director for Admin-

istration in CIA, has informed us that permission has been granted to

authorized representatives of the Commission for access to CIA documents

"regardless of classification," and has asked the cooperation of the

various libraries involved.

In the event that you are contacted by Mr. David W. Belin, Executive

Director of the Commission, please inform him of whatever arrangements

and/or procedures may be necessary

• to facilitate access by Commission

staff members to CIA materials located in your holdings. A copy of

CIA's letter of authorization and of our response to Mr. Blake is

enclosed.

JACOBS

Deputy Assistant Archivist

for Presidential Libraries

Enclosures

Keep Freedom in Your Future With U.S. Savings Bonds

HH

54545

DocId: 32273857

Page 9

---

