# docid-32335689

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90129-10080

RECORD SERIES : DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-1280-77

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SE

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

'SUBJECTS :

03/27/1964

9

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

DocId: 32335689 Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC- 2107 Hotey.

PAT5ind2144-2917

FBI

Date: 3/27/64

Transmit the following in -

(Type in plain test or code)

LATRUEL

ALANA IL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-107261)

FROM : SAC, SEATTLE (100-25625)

SUBJECT: MINUTENEN

INFORNATION. CONCERNING

INTERNAL SECURLEY

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE, 10/318 BY SPSETO

*Re Seattle airtel to the Bureau, 3/25/64.

On March 20, 1904, WALLY SONNEBERO, Kettle Falls,

Washington, (Protect Identity), made avallable a tape recording

he received from ROBERT DePUGH, Norborne, Missouri, National

Coprainator of captioned organization.

The tape 18 deseribed

"meeting tape No. 5" and according to SONNEBERG, it 18

prepared by headquarters of Minutemen and mailed to all

Minutemen groups in the country.

The following message 18 on this tape;

"This is meeting tape No. 5, prepared for distri-

bution March 1, 1964."

"Fellow Patriots, this 1s National Coordinator

BOB DePUCH. In preparing our meeting tape this

month, we are going to do something that we have

not previously done. Due to the serious situation

posed by the recent investigation of our organization,

I am going to take the liberty of sending one of

these meeting tapes to each of you who have ordered

any of the meeting tapes in the past, even though we

may not have a specifie order for this particular cape.

- Bureau (Reg.) (AM)

1 - Bach Office

(Reg. ) (AM) Pallae

- Seattle

JCN : bhc

(59)

SEARCHED INDEXED

105-1280-77

SERIALIZEOI

MAR

3 0 1964

PALLAS

Approved:

Sent

-M Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32335689 Page 2

---

