# docid-32303294

## Page 1

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10283-10306

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-5240-1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MELLOTT. FRANK L.

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 04/11/1961

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT:

BBA, ASSOC, LT, JHO, TEAMSTERS UNION, VRI, TEST, FGJ, JDI, ARREST,

RACK AND SUBV

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/09/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32303294

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assas nation Recers to lection Act 01-1992 441 456-

DATE: 11-14-2017

ur note).

CV 92-502

WASHINGTON FIELD (INFO)

One copy of this report is being furnished for the

information of the Washington Field Office Inasmuch as the

headquarters of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters is

located at Washington, D. C.

INFORMANTS

CV I-l is records of Bureau of Labor-Management Reports,

Department of Labor, Cleveland Office, made

available by Mr. JEROME BRAUN, Area Director, to

SA FRANK L. MELLOTT on March 17 and 20, 1901.

CV T-2 is CV-428-0, contacted by SAW. CLARK FULLER.

CV T-3 1s

ALVIN J. SUTTON, IR., former Safety Director,

Cleveland, who furnished the information to

SA THOMAS M. CORBETT on January 15, 1958.

CV T-4 is Father WILLIAM LYONS, St. Clements Roman Catholic

Church, 2022 Lincoln

Avenue, Lakewood, Ohio, who

furnished the information on April 9, 1950, anc

June 6, 1958, to SA ROBERT L. SCHWARTZ. Father

LYONS is considered a reliable source.

CV T-5 is CSCV-370-S, who furnished the information to

SA CARI A. EKBLAD on February 21, 1958. This

source is reliable.

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is to be noted that TRISCARO is the subject of

case captioned,

"LOUIS 'BABE' TRISCARO, aka., ANTI-RACKETEERING"

(00 Cleveland) (Bureau file 92-3151; Cleveland file 92-179):

PRESSER 1s the

subject of case captioned, "WILLIAM PRESSER,

OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE" (00 Cleveland) (Bureau file 74-1884;

Cleveland file

92-178); and JOHN J. FELICE is the subject of

case captioned,

"PILSENER BREWING COMPANY, Et Al, IMRA - IM"

(00 Cleveland)

(Bureau file 122-2698; Cleveland file 122-153).

Much of the background information regarding Teamsters Joint

Council. No. 41 and its top officers was obtained from the

aforementioned files.

- B* -

COVER PAGE

783-10388

DocId: 32303294

Page 2

---

