# docid-32176007

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 144 USC 2101 Hotel-

DATE: 11-11-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10184-10002

RECORD SERIES: TP

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 62-455-195

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

GENTRY. GLYDE B. JR.

DATE: 12/15/1963

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: JFK, CONTACT, NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

09/24/1997

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32176007

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Releäsed under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hote)T..- DATE: 11-14-2017

Cover-Sheet for Informant Report or Material

FD-306 (3-21-58)

Date received

Received from (name or symbol number)

12/18/63

TP 6-C(RAC)

Method of delivery (check appropriate blocks)

Xin person

by telephone

by mail

Corally

If orally furnished and reduced to writing by Agent:

Date

Dictated

_ to

Transcribed

Authenticated

by Informant

Brief description of activity or material

Meeting of National States Rights Party,

Lakeland, Fla., 12/15/63.

Remarks:

COPIES

I - FBI Jacksonville (RM)

1 - FBI, Miami (RM)

1 - FBI,

Atlanta (RM)

- 157-45 (NSRP)

157-27 (TAFT)

1 - 157-893 (W. BOWMAN)

1 - 157-894 (E. TURNER)

1 - 157-293 (STONER)

- 157-165 (Lake Wales)

1- 62-455 (KENNEDY Assassination)

GBG-cls

(11)

Received by

SA GLYDE B. GENTRY, JR.

recording device

[X] written by Informant

Date of Report

12/15/63

Date(s) of activity

12/15/63

File where original is located if not attached

TP 137-6A-556

ACTION

I.. Info channelized to proper

files.

2. Index into 157-45:

Mrs. William BOWMAN

Mrs. EUGENE TURNER

Mrs. A. C. SMITH

USE REGISTERED MAIL

ALL INFORIAOTICY CONTAINED

HERE:

DATE 1F 22-433Y9803100/15R

JFK)

Block Stamp

607-455-195

JAN 3:

DocId: 32176007 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hotel , DATE: 11-14-2017

NOTE:

Informant's report is set forth herein exactly as received

except for corrections in spelling and grammar.

Lakeland, Fla.

December 15, 1963

On December 15,

1963 at 3:15 PM eight women

and 10 men held a meeting at the Hungarian Inn, five miles

east of Lakeland on the old Winter Haven Road.

Those recognized were:

J. B. STONER (Atlanta, Ga.)

DEWEY TAFT (Tampa, Fla. state chairman of the

National States Rights Party)

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM BOWMAN (Lake Wales, Fla.)

Member of the United Fla. KKK

Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE TURNER (Lake Wales, Fla.)

Member of the United Fla. KKK

0. V. BOATWRIGHT (Lakeland, Fla.) Member of

IGHT I

the United Fla. KKK

Mrs. A. C.

SMITH

(Auburndale, Fla.) Wife of a

member of the United Fla. KKK

A preacher from the Orthodox Church in Lakeland.

The meeting was opened by TAFT.

He said the meeting was to try to get members for

the rights party and to start clubs wherever possible.

He said there had been a club in Lakeland in about 1960, but

it disbanded.

TAFT stated he will be working all over Florida

trying to get the party set up in every town. TAFT turned

the floor over to STONER who said he is the one that

defended some men in St. Augustine who had been arrested

for beating up some Negroes.

STONER said the people of St. Augustine have put up

more of a fight against integration than the Negroes thought

they would and he said the people there are not going to

integrate.

He stated the Negro has said they will not be

satisfied if they get everything they are demanding now.

When they get these things they will start a new list of

things.

He stated the Negro will not be happy until they

GON TAINED

DATE 1727-9331 4803 DO/ISe

DocId: 32176007 Page 3

---

