# docid-32317936

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Fote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10356-10113

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 72-2382-524

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 01/25/1977

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

JUDITH CAMPBELL EXNER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32317936

Page 1

84

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG0DD6 0252153

redski

TE S INVENTIRATION:

COMMUNICATIONS SECTIO:!

RR HQ

MM

N1/251970

DE CG

TELETYPE

R 2521457 JAN 77

FM

I CHICAGO

(92-399)

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adma.

Dep. AD Inv

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Affairs

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Intell.

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp

Rec. Mgt..

S. & T. Serv

Spec. Inv.

Training -n

Telephone Rm.,

Director's Sec'y-

TO DIRECTOR

(72-2382)

ROUTINE

MIAMI

(92-517)

ROUTINE

BT

E-FT O

ROSKIL; 00: MIAMI

FOR INFORMATION OF BUREAU AND MIAMI, CHICAGO SUN-TIMES

DAILY NEWSPAPER OF JANUARY 19, 1977, CARRIED AN ARTICLE

CAPTIONED "KNOW GIANCANA KILLER: CAREY"• THIS ARTICLE RELATES

THAT COOK COUNTY STATES ATTORNEY BERNARD CAREY STATED AT A

PRESS CONFERENCE HE BELIEVES HE KNOWS THE KILLERS OF CRIME

SYNDICATE CHIEF SAM GIANCANA BUT DOES NOT HAVE ENOUGH PROOF

TO GO TO COURT. THIS STATEMENT CAME IN RESPONSE TO A QUESTION

AT A PRESS CONFERENCE CALLED BY CAREY CONCERNING ANOTHER MATTER.

CAREY ADDITIONALLY STAIED THAT GIANCANA WAS NOT KILLED BY THE

FBI OR THE CIA, THAT IT WAS A FELLOW TRAVELLER OF GIANCANA

• WHO.

KILLED HIM. CAREY WENT ON TO STATE WE ARE TALKING ABOUT

REC-19 72-2382-

g JAN 28 1977

10977

DocId: 32317936 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

CG 92-399 EFT O

KNOWING SOMETHING AND BEING ABLE TO PROVE IT IN A COURTROOM

WHICH ARE TWO DIFFERENT THINGS. CAREY STATED HE BELIEVED

GIANCANA WAS XILLED BECAUSE HE HAD OUTLIVED HIS USEFULNESS

NOT BECAUSE HE MAY HAVE ASSISTED FORMER PRESIDENT KENNEDY IN

ATTEMPTS TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN PRIME MINISTER CASTRO.

RECENTLY CAREY'S OFFICE INDICTED HARRY ALEMAN, JR. ON

THE CHARGE OF MURDER AND THERE WAS OONSIDERABLE PUBLICITY IN

THE LOCAL PAPERS CONCERNING THIS INDICTMENT. THE PUBLICITY

WAS MAINLY CONCERNED WITH STATEMENIS BY CAREY'S OFFICE THAT

ALEMAN AND HIS PARTNER WERE ORGANIZATION "HIT MEN" AND WERE

RESPONSIBLE FOR SOME IWELVE TO FIFTEEN GANGLAND TYPE MURDERS

WITHIN THE PAST TWO YEARS. IT WAS DURING ONE OF THESE PRESS

CONFERENCES CONCERNING ALEMAN THAT THE QUESTION AROSE CONCERNING

THE GIANCANA KILLING.

CHICAGO HAS CONTACTED ALL AVAILABLE SOURCES CONCERNING THE .

ROSELLI KILLING, AS WELL AS THE GIANCANA KILLING, AND TO DATE

THERE IS NO INDICATION THERE IS A OONNECTION BETWEEN THE TWO

KILLINGS.

CG 6481-CTE HAS ADVISED THAT HE HAS NO POSITIVE INFORMATION

CONCERNING THE ROSELLI "HIT".

HE ADVISED HE BELIEVED IT WAS

DocId: 32317936 Page 3

---

