# docid-32307440

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/6/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10292-10143

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 109-584-5299

Released under the John

• Kennedy

ssassination Records

cOllection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NO 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/14/1974

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

FS, CUBAN EXILES, MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32307440

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PAGE TWO MM 165-1742÷

THAT HE WOULD ASSIST CUBAN UNIFICATION IN THE U.S., BUT WOULD

NOT WRITE AGAINST CO-EXISTENCE.

SOURCE ADVISED ABOVE MEETING WAS HELD SOLELY FOR THE

PURPOSE OF OBTAINING SUPPORT OF JACK ANDERSON IN UNITING

CUBAN EXILES IN THE UNITED STATES. NO DISCUSSION WAS HELD

CONCERNING BOMBINGS OR OTHER TERRORIST ACTIVITIES AND THESE

MATTERS WERE NOT ALLUDED TO DURING THE MEETING.

ADMINISTRATIVE

RE MIAMI TELETYPE TO BUREAU, OCTOBER 31, 1974, CONCERNING

PLANS OF CUBAN EXILE CONTINGENT FROM MIAMI TO MEET WITH

WASHINGION CORRESPONDENT JACK ANDERSON IN WASHINGTON, D.C.

ALSO RE WO NITÊL TO BUREAU AND MIAMI, CAPTIONED, "UNSUB;

BOMBING OF THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS) BUILDING,

1 TIH AND CONSTITUTION AVENUE, N.W., WASHINGTON, D.C.,

NOVEMBER 9, 1974, PROTECTION OF FOREIGN OFFICIALS-BOMBINGS-

SUBVERSIVE, 00: WFO.

MIAMI CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE IS MM 2960-PSI.

END

HOTD

HH 54462 DocId: 32307440

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE

TWO MA 195

THAT HE WOULD ASSIST CUBAN UNIFICATION IN THE U.S., BUT WOULD

NOT WRITE AGAINST CO-EXISTENCE.

SOURCE ADVISED ABOVE MEETING WAS HELD SOLELY FOR THE

PURPOSE. OF OBTAINING SUPPORT OF JACK ANDERSON IN UNITING

CUBAN EXILES IN THE UNITED STATES.

NO DISCUSSION WAS HELD

CONCERNING BOMBINGS OR OTHER TERRORIST ACTIVITIES AND THESE

MATTERS WERE NOT ALLUDED TO DURING THE MEETING.

ADMINISTRATIVE

RE MIAMI TELETYPE TO BUREAU, OCTOBER 31, 1974, CONCERNING

PLANS OF CUBAN EXILE CONTINGENT FROM MIAMI TO MEET WITH

WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT JACK ANDERSON IN WASHINGTON D.C.

ALSO RE WFO NITEL TO BURBAU AND MIAMI, CAPTIONED, "UNSUB;

BOMBING OF THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS) BUILDING,

17TH AND CONSTITUTION AVENUE, NOW, WASHINGTON, DoC•s

NOVEMBER 9, 1974, PROTECTION OF FOREIGN OFFICIALS-BOMBINGS-

SUBVERSIVE, 00: WFO

MIAMI CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE IS MM 2960-PSI:

END

HOTD

NW 54462 DooId: 32307440 Page 3

---

