# docid-32328921

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/19/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90083-10021

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-92196-19

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 02/28/1962

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

30TH OF NOVEMBER REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT

CARLOS RODRIGUEZ QUESADA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: LHM

v9.1

HH 45929

DocId: 32328921

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ITED STATES DEPARTMENT Or-JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

Fite No.

FEB 2 8 1962

Miami, Florida

30th of NOVEMBER MOVEMENT

CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

INTERNAL, SECURITY - CUBA

4023 N.W. 21st Court,

Miami, Florida, advised on February 6 and 14, 1962, that

he is

a neuro-surgeon,

presently working at the Jackson

Memorial Hospital in Miami.

medical education in the United States, and that he re-

became aware of the extent of the Communist domination

over the Cuban government.

Soon after returning he took

steps to put himself in contact with the anti-CÄSTRO

underground groups operating in Havana, where he lived.

related that in the fall of 1960 he

became acquainted with

DAVID, SALVADOR,

the founder of the CUBA

30th of November Movement. Through SALVADOR he was able

to become a member of the group, and was placed in the

Professional Section. He said he continued his anti-

CASTRO activity with

the 30th of November Movement until

November 3

He said he remained at

the Embassy for 51 days, when he was able to obtain

permission to come to the U.S., where he arrived just be-

fore Christmas.

Movement in Cuba,

advised that it was divided

Section, the Profession-

There was a coordinator supervising each section.

leader of the entire group was designated General Coordin-

ator •

In addition, there was a coordinator for each

Province.

The basic organizational group was the cell

which consisted of from 3 to 10 members, with each cell

9-3-94 SPB MAC EH JFK

4-20-94 5011 74p-t

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE.

815181

_BYSP6BJA/ DmS

HW

45929

541855P6BTA/ECL # 211, 326 2

105-92196-19

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32328921

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

30th of NOVEMBER MOVEMENT

CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

being composed of individuals living in proximity to

each other.

Each of the 4 groups was subdivided into

areas of operation, such as action and sabotage,

propaganda, supply and military. E

stated that the action and sabotage

groups were

caught, and it was seldom that an individual coul

remain in this activity more than 3 or 4 months.

At the time that he was active, the finance group "

as charged with the responsibility of obtaining funds.

which was usually accomplished by the sale of bonds to

members or sympathizers.

was handled on a cell basis, consisted mainly of the dis-

tribution of mimeographed sheets exposing the Communist

nature of the CASTRO government.

nil in thee stated to the actuay, vice the ee osce

no supplies.

He stated that the military group consisted of

place, due to the lack of resources.

mentioned that the Farmers Section

of the 30th of November Movement was the weakest, since

it was found very difficult to organize these people due

to their lack of education and their general way of life.

He stated that the Workers, Students and Professiona

Sections were well organized and that the 30th of November

Movement had groups in all 33 of the Labor confederations

of Cuba.

stated that prior to the invasion

of April

I7, 1961 by anti-CASTRO forces

November Movement in Cub was very he all

Provinces. In addition, prior to April 17, 1961, alliances

with other underground organizations had been made,

- 2 .

NH 45929 DocId: 32328921 Page 3

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

30th of NOVEMBER MOVEMENT

CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

particularly among the professionals.

advised, however, that the under-

ground movement suffered a severe setback following the

unsuccessful invasion of April 17, 1961.

As a result

of mass arrests which followed the invasion, the 30t:

of November Movement was seriously disorganized, and

there followed a period of almost total inactivity.

stated that the movement was re-

covering its

strength

and reorganizing during the summer

and fall of 1961.

At this time, however, there were

several arrests made by the CASTRO government, including

Revoluct

nario del Pueblo MRP

as probably the strongest of the underground

organizations.

He stated that following the arrest of REYNOL

GONZALEZ.,.

the MRP disintegrated and as of the time he

left Cuba

in December, 1961, it was Of no consequence.

said that the 30th of November

Movement

suttered a similar disaster shortly after the

arrest of GONZALEZ, when JULIAN REYES, a young student

who had worked his way to the top echelon of the Student

Section of the 30th of November Movement, proved to be

an agent of the Cuban government.

In the last days of

the he movemen Movemen tung all of the

REYES turned in the names of many of the leaders

leadership of the Student Section, and consequently

many leaders and members of the 30th of November Move

Others were able to escape to

asylum in some of the Embassies in Havana, but the acti

vities of the organization were almost eliminated.

stated that at the time this happened, he himself

was Vice Coordinator of the Professional Section of the

30th of November.

advised that while he was in the

he

was able to mintain contact with the 30th

of November Movement in Havana by telephone, and that he

• 3.

WW 45929 DocId:32328921 Page 4

OTHER 4

---

## Page 5

30th of NOVEMBER MOVEMENT

CUBAN

REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

learned that despite the setback caused by REYES, meet-

ings were still being held, although no activity was

permitted for security reasons.

He said that at the time

he lett, the organization was inactive.

stated he had received a letter from

a friend in the 30ch of November Movement in Cuba, about

weeks ago, which Indicated that efforts to reorganize

the movement were proceeding.

culties encoutered

nonths of his activity, were those

vigilance committees in each block which made it impossible

en ender hole da

advised that the principal diffi-

ene underground, during the last

imposed by the

to meet, and therefore Impossible to plam.

He said that

every movement is

viewed with suspicion and that it was

only because

of his position as a

physician that he was

able to operate as a coordinator in the Professional

Section.

He stated, however, that he was surveilled from

time to

time, and was

frequently asked to explain how he

had spent certain periods of time.

also mentioned that another serious

problem

for the underground was that of finances.

As an

example, he pointed out that certain people who devoted

their entire activity

to underground work had to be

supported by the underground.

He recalled that during the

year and a half he was in the 30th of November Movement, the

82 automobiles. He

said that automobiles were vital

group lost in one fashion or and to the dtfective operation

of the underground in the cities.

infiltration by CASTRO

scated that fear and the threat of

agents had seriously paralyzed the

activitles of the underground organizations, including the

30th of November Movement in Cuba.

CUBA

Movement irthe U.S.,

Rehe ung the operationg of the 3ohat € November

I RODRIGUEZ/QUESADA, nOW

Tadvised that CARLOS

living

exile in Miami, is considered

• 4 .

MW 45929 DocId: 32328921 Page 5

OTHER 4

---

## Page 6

30th of NOVEMBER MOVEMENT

CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

Ben a to 2o cet on ayan have differ scared that enice

tended to go their own way.

JESUS FERNANDEZ HERNANDEZ and ORLANDO RODRIGUEZ have been

at odds with RODRIGUEZ QUESADA for some months now.

He

stated, however, that during the last 2 weeks some definite

steps have been taken to resolve the differences between

them and to reunite the organization.

Jadvised that RODRIGUEZ QUESADA waS

a strong

anti-Communist labor leader in Cuba for about

persuasive speaker who commands great respect from labor-

ng people in Cuba. Despite his lack of education, L

I described him as a person having a keen mind

a good understanding of the Communist threat, and a

staunch friend of the u.s.

OTHER 4

PROPERTY OF FBI - This memoandum is loaned to you by the

FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed

outside the agency to which loaned.

- 5 -

HH 45929-DocId:32328921

Page 6

---

