# docid-32339271

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90146-10103

HQ

105-93072-108

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

HQ

DATE: 06/25/1964

'PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NEWS ARTICLE, LET

v9.1

DocId: 32339271

Page 1'

35

---

## Page 2

• Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFTDENT

AL

cd. 110

CALEND

JU THIS DOCUMENT.

06/24/98

1108

CONFIDENTIAL®

1

- Wannall

1 - Liai-on

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

• - Mossburg

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

1 - Anderson

SENRET

4

June 25, 1964

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

122/23 pд4

Easied by SpS MACISAT

Reclassify on:

OADR

LIFK

Richard Thomas Cibson is a male Negro who was

born

in Los Angeles, California, on May 13, 1931. He is five feet

nine inches tall, weighs approximately 150 pounde and -erved in

the United States Army from December, 1952, to December, 1954.

Gibson presently resides in Paris, France, and is

employed as an editor of the publication, "Africa Latin America

Asie Revolution.*

Sources who have furnished reliable infomation in the

past have furnished the following information concerning Richard

Thomas Gibson:

In 1960 Gibson was forced to resign a. a Columbia

Broadcasting System newsman for publicly expressing himself

was being « ympathetic to the regime of fidel Gastro in Cuba.

1960 Gibron was the president of the New York Chapter of the EPCC

pretent of the

and in 1961 became

the acting national executive secretary of

FILED IN

the

FPCC.

Gibson was alro accredited to the United Nation, as a

correspondent for the Cuban new-paper, "Revolucion," in 1961.

In September, 1962, Gibson left the United States and

went to Algerie where he remained until April of 1963.

residing in Algeria, Cibion was the Englich-language editor for

/ENCLOSUES

'Revolution Africaine," a weekly publication which had been created

UHRECORDED COPY

by the political branch of the Algerian Coverrment.

1963 Gibson went to Switzerland where he became associated with

Fredy. Gilbert Mbs Andersson,

Swiss representative of the nonthly

Tolson

Belmont

revier,

‚"Revolution Mricaine.* Gibron, subrequently, moved to Paris,

Mohr

Casper

France, where he is employed by the "Africa Latin America Asia

Callahan —

Revolution,* a publication which reportedly 1s fipanced by the

Chinese Communist

Government

Evans -

*Gale

Enclo-ure

CONFIDENTIAL

Excluded

from automatio

Rosen .

Sulliva

Tavel _

9744803 (Africa Latin America Asia Revolutio clas

Trotter -

56 л

Tele. Room — LIA: agg

881964

STRET CONFIDEMIAL EÑOTE CONTAID

HA:1012)

Holmes -

' NOTS:

wriginal and one furnished Ar. Bazowski

Gandy

by 0-14 FOrE dated June 2561964905 wl

ROMP/C

DocId: 32339271

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BURBAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONKHENT INPORHATION SHRST (JFK HATERTALS)

_Page(s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more

of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions).

[]

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure. All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[] Subsection lA (intelligence agent's identity)

[)

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

[]

Subsection IC (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[] Subsection 2

[] Subsection 3

A subsection 4

[] Subsection 5

(living person who provided

confidential information)

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

[] Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

[] For your information:

The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

105.93072-108

XxxxxxxxXx

XxxxxXxxX*

XXXXXXXXXX

XXX 000

090x

xxxxxxxxxX

XXX********

DocId: 32339271 Page 3

---

## Page 4

/ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

DATE: 11-14-2017

REGISTERED

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

A CESSESE

CORRESPONDENCE TO BE

THE COMMISSIONER,

R. C. MS POLICE,

OTTAWA 8,

CANADA

FILE NO. D 934-1328

HEADQUARTERS

OTTAWA 8,

CANADA

June 18, 1964.

CONFIDENTIAL

TO:

The R.C.M.Police Liaison Officer,

Canadian Joint Staff (W),

2450 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W.,

Washington, D.C., 20008.

Re:

Attached please find single copy of a clipping

taken from the March 5, 1964 issue of the "Christian

Science Monitor".

2..

We would be interested to learn whether or not

the Richard GIBSON referred to in the clipping is identical

o Richard GIBSON, who, in 1901 was Executive Secretary o1

• an the a phane cal

the American Fair

Play

for Cuba Committee.

0-14.withalached cm.

i.B.l.

V

Your rile:

62-1-431

rele

Bazowski, Insp., RCMP Liaison Officer

6/20

ENCLOSURE

Reed 6-23-64 trom

Insp. Bazowski

(J.R.W. Bordeleạu),

Assistant

Commissioner,

D. S. I.

105-93022108 2n9

& JUN 29 1964

DocId: 32339271

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released

under

DATE!

Assessination Records Collection def of 1992

Christini sciences

ChoniToR

5=3-441

Peking Base in Paris

By Harry B. Ellis

The the scle seton tor

Slick Voice.

ies, asserted to be larger than

any

other left-wing publica-

Paris

tion in France.

In a large apartment on the

The

Chinese

Communists,

san Riad of the United Arab,

fashionable

Rue François Pre-

Republic, and Castro da

Elva. Mr

Gibson said,

buy no copies

0 1.911

edition.

But inside the

mier,

not far from

the House

of Angola.

Dior,

Chinese

now

is

cover

of the

of.

the

Com-

February,

1964.

Mr.

Babu

munists

Foreign

issue

(No.

6),

subscribers arc

have headquartered a

Minister of the new revolution- offered,

free,

a weckly

sun?-

massive

propaganda

effort

ary.

government

of

Zanzibar.

mary

of

Chinese

Communist

reaching

out

the

Middle

An

editorial

1177 1

1iC4s

called

East,

Africa,

Latin

America,

footnote

the

"Peking Informa-

latest French issue of Revolu-

tion."'

Also

offered

and the United States

tion sends him

frec

the warm

charge are any of all of somc-

At No. 40 of this street,

in

gratulations of his editorial col-

60

titles

and

wishes

him

and

of books

and

other

the

heart

leagues

publications

published

Champs

Paris

Élysées.

near

the

the

visitor

the

"people

of

'Zanzibar

French language at Poking e

asks

the

concierge

for

the

success in

the

struggle against

Neither edition of Revolution

apartment of Jacques

Verges

feudalists

and neocolonialists."

carries

advertising,

except of

well-knowIT

international

and

editorial

di-

The English edition of Revo-

other

Communist

publications

Communist

lution is printed in

Switzer-

friendly

to

rector of the French and Eng

land, presumably at the mod-

Peking.

A

copy ;of

lish language editions of Rev-

ern printing plant which

equivalent

other

olution,

a slick paper monthly

Chinese

Communist

Govern-

rencies.

Given

the

quality

of

magazine

committed

to

the

ment recently bought at Bern.

their

printing

and

small

Chinese

Communist

point of

The

magazine is in

its ninth

culation, both editions must be

heavily subsidized.

monthly issue and has reached

Gibson's Role

circulation, according to Mr. Spanish Edition

Gibson, of about 6,900 copies.

Ahead of me on the stairs

Of

this

monthly

total

the

Mr. Gibson asserted that no

two Chinese men disappeared

Chinese Communists buy 2000 one party dictated the editorial

copies,

through the unmarked door of throughout

distribüting

them line'of Revolution, though the

the Verges apartment. Inside,

English-en ine imagazine agreed with the Chi-

Africa. About 1,000 copies in to

in a cool:

Communist

outchied high with

the island of Zanzibar.

Mantist disputes." The i

in

copics

of

Revolution

and

Nigeria

of

also

reccives./i.ans

the inag

11147

would

adorned

pictures

Gibson sals,

N4411e

be considered an

Lenin,

but intruder by

Mao Tse-tung,

copies,

and Ho

Ghana

Mr.

none,

for

the

reported ed

the Soviet-orient-

French

Chi-minh, I was

greeted

reason that periodical distribu-

Communist Party.

by

young, American, Richard Gib-

tion in that country

Now in the advanced-plan-

by

the

London

is handled ning stage are a Spanish cdi-

son.

and

Revolution

Daily

has

not

Mirror tion. to be printed in Paris and

'Under the over-all

direction

aimed

primarily

'of Mr.

Verges,

Mr:

Gibson is in

been

albie 10

crack the distribution

'America,

charge of the English language

circuit.

and an Italian agar-

terly edition, to bc

printed in

edition

listed on the mastiad foots

Revolution,

is Printed in Paris

Italy.

Both

are

scheduled

to

appear this

editions

as a member

of the

Apart from

German

the 3,000 copies

"editorial

along

language

taken by the Chinese Commu-

with Hamza Alavnof Pakistan,

nists, 300 subscribers in

in Hamburg,"

also

Egypt

Revolution.

1,500

Gibslan

planned, according

to Mr.

Amilcar

Cabrera/of Venezuela,

States,

Nguyen Kiensof

Vietnam, Ras-.

primarily to student

Articles in the latest English

groups in

language

Revolution

include

southern

cities.

This

imply. a

Negro

readership.

would

"The Class Struggle in Africa,"

"What

Kind

Mr. Verges Is

variously. re-

for

Angola?,of

Independence

ported to

have

"Support

the

boin

in

Reunion Island, a French over-

Panamanian

People's

Struggle,"

and

"The

Just

seas department

Ocean,

Thailand,

of Black Revolt in the U.S.A.

or

in

in

the Indian

Meaning

of

Creole father

and Vietnamese

Appearing in the February is-

mother.

Mr.

Verges's

sue of the French "Revolution"

brother

Paul,

also a

Communist,

was

are "15 Days With the Venezu-

defeated

for

seat

in • the

National

elan Maquis," "Songs

Acvolt

Erench

in

South

Africa,

ain

in

Assembly

by

Movement."

former French Premier Michel

"Pakistan:

Burden of American Aid," and

Ucore in a by-election

on Re- others.

union Island in May. 1963.

The French language édition Verges aparrount bulling thall

On the ground floor

of

Revolution,

slicker

and shop

expensive

furs.

presentation

than its Across the street

is Dior

counterpart

in

English;

an

is ultimate symbol

of capitalism.

printed in Paris

and has a cir- A few doors away is the Nor-

culation of 17,000-19,000 cop- wegian Embassy.

105-93032168

ENCIOSURI,

DocId: 32339271

Page 5

---

