# docid-32334034

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10027

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 87-40901-40

Released under the John'

. Kennation Records

Collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel •

Case# :NW 54027 Date:

08-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/28/1960

6

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54027

6

DocId: 32334034

Page 1

---

## Page 2

patr

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES

ÉRNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

SEP 2 8 1960

FROM

SUBJECT:

SAC, MIANI (87-13034)

CHANGED

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA,

aka."

WILLIAM W. RABIN; AL

SEID, aka.,

Al Leid (TN)

ITSP; IMPERSONATION

9

FD0217

00: Miami

88-40901-36

8740901-35

Re Miami teletype to Bureau and Chicago,.

8/25/60;

• Bureau,

and Miani teletype, to Bureau, 8/28/69 87-40907°

8/26/60,

The title

Ahis case

marked changed to delete

from the title the na

s of subjecte

JOHN CHARLES HERRMANN,

aKa•, JOHN EbeR, akE

subjects WILLIAM W

RAB IN STAY SEE, and the ta de

NaS DrevIOuSLY

carried in referenced communications as

* JOHN CHARLESCHERRMANN, aka.; JOHN EDER,

aka.; JOSEPH

RAYMOND MEROLA, aka.; JIMMY MARTIN • ITSP"

For the information of New York and Washington

Field, on August 25, 1960, MM 722 PC advised he had learned

MEROLA planned to leave Miami that night by plane for

Chicago to join HERRMANN and EDER (Miami Top Jewel Thieves

Bureau

(1- 87-41245)

3 • Chicago (1 • 87-11127)

2

• New York (I

• 87010541)

2 - Pittsburgh (87-6706)

(10 87-54446)

NIC 65

REC- 49

82-40901-40

6

SEP 30 1960

2 - Richmond (87-5068)

2

-WEO: (10 8704785)

6

• Miami

(1 = 137-2065-SubA) (1 • 137-1594-Sub)

(1 087013042) 81-87-8756)

PCC: mogw

(20)

copIes made

102

2628 I56/9L

2 OCT 1 0 1960

Не:

for

Прира Вель

STATISECIE

ESCAre (20)Erequest»

(See Bufile #62-117290)

NW 54027 DocId: 32334034

Page 2

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

---

## Page 3

MM 87-13024

"on

a job"s On August 26, 1960; informant: advised he

had Learned MEROLA and

two unknown associates departed

Miami early morning of that date, reportedly for Roanoke,

Virginia.

Informant learned that AL SEID had, taken these

three individuals to the Miami International Airport, SEID

remalning in Miami until

the afternoon of August 26,

1960,

when he flew to Pittsburgh.

Informant learned MEROLA was

expecting a $500.00 Western Union money order after arrival

in Roanoke and SEID, before departing. from Miami, was making

efforts to obtain money to wire to MEROLA at Roanoke.

¿Investigation at Eastern Airlines, Miami, on

August 20: 19620

determined three individuals using names

J. MEADE,:.

Do BERt and to

BURNS departed Miami at 1:20

A. M. that date

on eastern Airlines Flight 854 non-stop,

one way tickets,

for Washington, D. C. An unexplained

notation was on the ticket issued to J. MADE reflecting

intention to travel to Roanoke, Virginia., No positive

identification of photograph of -JOSEPH MEROLA was made

for the J. MEADE.

Confdentlal source, Miami, advised on August 26,

1960

that a $500.00 Western Union money order sent 11:10

A. M. that, day to NELLIE MEROLA, c/o Will Call, Roanoke,.

Virginia.

Fisur instituted August 26, 1960 at Roanoke,

Virginia reflected NELLIE MEROLA received $500.00 money

order at Roanoke from where, accompanied by MEROLA and

their children, she drove via Camden, South Carolina,

Jacksonville, Florida, to Miami Beach, arriving late

afternoon of August 28, 1960. No significant contacts

observed. Whereabouts of two unknown associates of MEROLA

not known after the three departed Miami by plane for

Washington, D. G.

MM 722 PC advised on August 26, 1960 that he had

learned MEROLA and/or his two unknown associates had with

• 2

54027 DooId:32334034 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 87-13024

"BERNIE" had gone as far as Washington, D. G., ultimate

destination not learned, involved a swindle or theft of

a substantial amount of money, all in $10,000 bills:

He learned these bills were reportedly stolen in Japan

by a representative of the United States Government shortly

after World War II. Such bills were reportedly brought

into the United States

and since then one or two of the

$10,000 bills was

sold at a discount, which sale resulted

in inquiry by the U.S. Treasury Department. As a result

of the inquiry the unidentified person in possession of

these $10,000 bills has been afraid to sell, spend, or

otherwise dispose of

same. Informant learned this

person

reportedly still in the U.S. Government service,

possibly connected with the United Nations or the U.S.

State Department, and from conversation overheard informant

gathered these bills are now or have in the recent past

been

stored in a safe deposit box of an unknown branch of

the Manufacturers Trust Company, New York City.

Subjects feel that victim of proposed score,

inasmuch as he is not in legal possession of the $10,000

bills, would make no complaint of the loss of this money

if the score successful.

MM 722

PC advised on September 19, 1960 that

he learned RABIN was expected in Miami over

the week-end

of September 17 - 19, 1960 where, acting on instructions

Of GABE (KELLY) MANNARINO, New Kensington, Pennsylvania

racketeer, RABIN was to obtain the fictitious credentials

(mentioned herein above) from someone unknown to informant,

for subsequent use in pulling above described score. He

learned nothing of the date or time for this proposed

score.

On September 14, 1960, MM 660-f advised she

learned on JOE MEROLA's recent trip to Roanoke, Virginia;

on August 26, 1960, when MEROLA left Miami he was accompanied

4

NW 54027 DooId:32334034 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 87-13024

MM 722 PC learned that WILLIAM W. RABIN reportedly

is in possession of a passport, which he carries with him

at all times; that RABIN has stated his intentions to leave

the country in the event he is successful in attempting the

score described herein above, thereby avoiding a split of

the loot obtained with GABE MANNARINO and others. Informant

mentioned the possibility that in the event RABIN is

successful in attempting this score, MANNARINO, NORMAN

ROTHMAN, and others may take necessary steps to "get rid"

Of RABIN prior to their forthcoming trial on ITSP

CONSPIRACY charges, in view of their feeling that without

RABIN, MANNARINO and ROTHMAN cannot be successfully prosecuted.

MM 722 PC previously advised in July, 1960, that

he had learned GABE MANNARINO, WILLIAM W. RABIN, and NORMAN

ROTHMAN (latter a Miami Beach racketeer) were concerned over

their indictment in Chicago on conspiracy charges involving

stolen bonds; that MANNARINO and ROTHMAN felt that "with

RABIN out of the way" they could not be convicted on the

conspiracy charge; and MANNARIN and ROTHMAN had reportedly

made known their intentions to "get rid" of RABIN.

New York Office is origin in case involving

MANNARINO, RABIN, ROTHMAN, et al, who were initially

'indicted in June, 1959, on ITSP - Conpisracy, later

reindicted during the summer of 1960 at Chicago on the

File 87-5446, and WEO file 87-4785.

The above is furnished to the Bureau and offices

receiving copies of this letter for information purposes.

No dissemination of this information should be

made and same should not be discussed outside the Bureau

without specific Bureau authority. The Miami Office

recommends no dissemination or discussion outside the

Bureau as same would likely reveal the identity and status

of the informants herein, seriously jeopardizing the

confidential relationship of these informants, and/or

endangering the lives of these informants.

= 6

NW 54027 DooId: 32334034 Page 5

---

