# docid-32340101

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90154-10130

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 162-1-202-222

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/29/1968

GAMBLING ACTIVITIES

MICHAEL MCLANEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32340101

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aét of 7992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Repty, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITE STATES DEPARTMENT OF J

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami,

Florida

May 29, 1968

ITICE

Information has been received that MICHAEL MCLANEY,

who has been identified as having had an interest in Bahamian

gambling matters, and who has been reported in the press as

having been in an advisory capacity on these matters to ,

Premier LYNDEN O. PINDLING of the Bahama Islands, has been

told by an unidentified source that an attempt may be made

to injure Premier PINDLING.

This individual advised MCLANEY

that "racket individuals" are dissatisfied with the current

restrictions placed on casino gambling in the Bahamas and

hold PINDLING responsible for these restrictions.

The unidentified source who contacted McLANEY

was said to have been drinking,

but was not identified as

being intoxicated.

The information above was furnished telephonically

Assistant Commissioner STANLEY R$ MOIR, Bahamas Police

Force, Nassau.

MCLANEY also furnished same to JAMES SHEPARD,

a Bahamian representative who is on a trip with PINDLING,

and to ALBERT A. FOULKES, a member of House of Assembly.

The above information relative to Premier PINDLING

is being furnished for your information.

PROPERTY OF FBI - This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents

are not to be distributed outside your agency.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED# 24326

DATE 2/21/85

1.*

1 69-1-202-222

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32340101 Page 2

---

