# docid-32323631

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90019-10273

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

97-4623-161

Released under the John

F. kennedu

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53130 Date:

05-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

MM

TITLE:

DATE: 11/14/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

ALEXANDER IRWIN RORKE, JR

ALEXANDER RORKE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

14 53130

DocId: 32323631

Page 1

---

## Page 2

VION CONTAINED- Nasca

A CLASSIFICO EXCEPT

LOWN OTHERWISE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

19-94BYS

ENCLOSUI

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper.

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room _

Holmes.

Gandy

SAC, Miami (2-346)whsi

Director, FBI (97-4623)

9/

ALEXANDER IRWIN

RORKE,

JR.

IS - CURA

seamalate.

#67- 86-0481

(ge)

Reurairtels 10-3

and 4-63 which deal with

the

disappearance of subject and

Geoffrey F. Sullivan..

UN Attached is a copy

Federal Aviation Agency (FAA)

Letter 11-4.6s with

enclosures

Also attached is

a copy of

Army comunication dated 11-6-65 which contains information

concerning the erforts ot

various indivicnals including

639- 5/to

locate subject in Guatenala

Tamins DIA

*Which reference to FAA letter 1164-63,

check sources

informants for

• any indication there is substance to FAA

report that subject and Sallivan crashed

in Cuba during

hurricane Flora

that one is dead and

the other a prisoner.

abouts of

Also furnish information obtained concerning where-

Guatenala.

bject and Sullivan by M 639-S during his trip to

Subnit

dissemination.

results of your inquiries in for suitable for

trip to

caption of DM 639-S, furnish details of informant su

Guatenala, his connections with those making same *rip,

suspicions of the Guatemalan officials concerning theii

trip to Guatemala. (YU)

Enclosures - 3

REC. 27

97-4623

/134-6356

(MM

639-S

VHN: KIp

MALLEL 3

67 NOV 20 1965

(5)

NOV 1 S 1963

DECLASSTZI

NO BA 10

NOTE:

COMM-FBI

ON 10/31€

NREC COPY AND COPY,

"es, bombing of

Subject and Geoffrey Sullivan were involved in alleged

• Havana

in April,

1963.

We investigated case and

Department declined prosecution.

in september

Sullivan reportedly

1963,

subject and

took off for Honduras and have not been seer

FAA has been conducting

inquiries concerning

SEE CONTINUANCE OF NOTE PAGE TWO

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

CONFIDENTIAL

74 53130

DooId: 32323631

Page 2

---

## Page 3

.8,

.0

Letter to SAC

Miami

RE:

ALEXANDER IRWIN

RORKE, J%.

97-4623

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE:

CONHVENITAL

their disappearance and has received report indicating they

crashed in Cuba during hurricane Flora, and one of them is

reportedly dead and the other a prisoner.

this information is not known; however,

it would treet likely

that Castro would

not publicly announce the capture or death o

sul dect or Sullivan in view of their well-known anti Castro

activitiest Army communication 11-6-63 furnished details of private

Group landed

authorities.

they did. (f)M /ar + Set Set if brackits deceassified pr D, Altotal 2/20/86.

primac/.com

/6187

-2=

CONVOENTAL

HH 53130

DocId: 32323631

Page 3

---

