# docid-32329242

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90085-10123

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

166-491-X9

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Masassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :NU 45873 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 11/16/1962

PAGES:

36

SUBJECTS :

ALBERT MEADOWS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 4;11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

HH 45873

DocId: 32329242

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FASK FORGE

REVIEWED BY

DI 162-109

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS:

The following informants were contacted by SA ROBERT M.

BARRETT, unless otherwise designated, and all have furnished

reliable information in the past and

careful consideration has

been given to each source concealed and I symbols were utilized

in this report only in those instances where identities of

sources must be concealed.

6-18-88

ON

DI. T-5 is DL-95-C.

DL T-10 is DL-141-C contacted by SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING.

DL T-ll is H. J. FALGO, Principal, Rosemont Elementary

School, Dallas, who desires his identity be kept

confidential.

DL T-12 is DONNA SHERWOOD; Manager of the Forest Crest

Apartments, 1836 Steven Forest Lane, Dallas, who

desires

her identity be kept confidential.

DL T-13 iS IRENE WELLS, Southwestern Bell Telephone

Company, Grapevine,

DL T-14 is

R. A. BURROW, Chief Special Agent, South-

western

Bell Telephone Company, Dallas, Texas.

DL T-15 is BILL CAROTHERS, District Manager, South-

western Bell Telephone Company, Dallas, Texas.

DL T-16 is KEN SLANE, Intelligence Unit,

IRs, Dallas.

DL T-17 is SANKY TRIMBLE, Assistant Chief, Associated

Press, Dallas, who desires his identity be kept

confidential.

DL T-18 15 JACK B. KRUEGER, City Manager, DALLAS MORN

ING NEWS, who desires his identity be kept confi-

dential.

DL T-19 is

BLACKIE SHERROD, Executive Sports Editor,

DALLAS TIMES HERALD, and a confidential source of

the Dallas Office.

DL T-20 is HAL LEWIS, City Manager, DALLAS TIMES

HERALD, and a confidential source of the Dallas

Office.

DL T-21 is DOROTHY JONES, Southwestern Bell Telephone

Company, Slaton, Texas, contacted by SA BEN S.

HARRISON, JR.

DL. T-22 is DL-122-C.

HO

T-1 is STANLEY GEORGE, Special Agent, Southwestern

Bell Telephone Company, Houston, Texas, contacted

RELEASE IN FULL

I RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

AQ

by SA LOUIS B. MEYER.

T-l is JACK HITCHENS, Manager, Ruidoso Telephone

Exchange, Ruidoso, New Mexico, contacted by SA

RAYFORD S. KISSIAH.

-F-

COVER PAGE

1 66-491-19

NH 45873

Doct

32329242

Page

---

## Page 3

DL 162-109

AQ T-2 15 DOROTHY SHEA, Secretary to District Manager,

Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph Company,

Albuquerque, New Mexico,

contacted by SA STUART

J.

CAMERON.

SV T-1 is

SV-360-C.

-G-*

COVER PAGE

166-491-19

14 45873

DooId: 32329242

Page 3

---

