# docid-32327737

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90065-10023

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-112098-773

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO : HQ

TITLE: :15

DATE:

09/23/1968

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

• RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32327737

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (4d USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-11-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

CON

MAY IS EDITION

SE

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITEL: STATES CC

Memorandum.en.99

SECRED

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-112098)

DATE:

9/23/68

65668

на

7/25

SAC, MIAMI (105-6243) (P)

7-30-98

Classified

588u bel

SUBJECT:

UsS

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY

A VIEWED MY

EK TRESNER CE(OPERATION ALPHA 66)

Declassiv

CAIR

OIN

"/z4/92 det

IS - CUBA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

1-22-98

HEREIN IS UNCLE SIFLED

EXCERT WHENS CASAN

SOLEN FULL

(00:

PLEASE IN PART

DA LASON

É TOTAL DENIAL

JFK

Re Bureau airtel, 7/5/68, and

Bureau letters, 9/3

and 9/13/68.

press

Enclosed for the Bureau are twelve copies of a

letterhead menorandm including information received con-

cerning the activities of the SNFE during the past three

Guard

months, as well as information furnished to the Bureau

186)

On 9/10/68, Mr. STEVE CZUKAS, U. S. Customs, Miami,

Florida,

advised that Custons has been conducting & continu

ing investigation of the SNE and its military leader, ARKANDO

FLEITES. MT. CZUKAS said that he had furnished information

concerning the presence in the Bahamas of SNFE members to the

U. S. Coast Guard, Miami, Florida, in order that it could be

transmitted to the appropriate authorities in the Bahamas.

As a result, the Bahamas Police authorities were able to ar-

rest the five individuals mentioned in referenced Bureau

airtel.

Mr. CZUKAS said that he believes that with the sur-

render of the four SNFE members to Bahamas authorities re-

cently, ARHANDO FLEITES is now left with only one or two men

to assist him. Mr. CZUKAS said that the indication is that

FLEITES is in very poor physical condition. He based this

on an interview which he had with a member of the sNeE, who

said that FLEITES is existing on norphine, is not rational,

his boat has broken down, and he will have difficulty in

maintaining himself much longer. MI. CZUKAS said that FLEITES

Army/Navy/Air Force/DIA/Customs/Coast,

State

Attairs,

RY 1/4%

Coordinator of cupan

For Info

2.68

By Rs

is located on Leak Key, off of Andros Island, and 1s known to

have fired on a helicopter of the Bahamian Government which

was covering his activit

Mr. CZUKAS said that

Bureau (Enc - 12) (RM) REC 74

105-1/2098-713

Miami

CIAL

ARS RIO OBJECTION TO

SIMMATON AND/OR

ELEASE OF SIA INFORMATION EX-100

CONFI

THIS DOCUMENT. KP 1-15-90

LAIN MACAV

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

5010-108-01

DocId: 32327737 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 141 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

N6 PM '68

UcT

Tì 27 AM '68

73152 P10

SACA 6.16-9pmy

Serial 119

F31/A + 292,3C2

ATT

112356

+126 7-3000€

3-1 м адр. Анг. адену

DocId: 32327737 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the /John F.V Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 141 USC 2107 HOLey"

/DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

CONFI

TIAr

MM 105-6243

British Marines, who were formerly stationed in the

Bahamas, have been removed, and the Bahamian Govern-

ment has no police force available to effect the

capture of FLEITES at the moment, but that on the

other hand, they feel that he is

contained. He said

that the four individuals who surrendered are expected

to be tried on various charges, including piracy.

The ClA, Miami, has advised that they have

no operational interest

in the activities of the SNFE.

Copies of the enclosed

letterhead memorandum

are being disseminated locally to:

1

-

INS, Miami

- CIA,

Miami

1

-

U. S. State Department (Cuban Affairs), Miami

S. Coast Guard, Miami

U.

S. Customs, Miami

-

U. S. Customs,

Region II, Miami

1

1

U. S. Border Patrol, Miami

-

NISO, 6th ND, Charleston, S. C.

- OSI, Robins AFB, Ga.

1

USAFAD, Miami Springs

1

-

U. S. Secret Service, Miami

1 - 111th M. I. Group, Orlando, Fla.

This letterhead memorandum has been classified

"SECRET" per instructions in referenced Bureau letter of

9/3/68.

The informants utilized are as follows:

MM T-I is MM 974-S

MM T-2 is MM 847-S

(S)

MM T-3 is

Ум [1248-

75842

MM T-4 is RICARDO)MORALES VAvARETTE

(concealed by request)

CUISA

MM T-5 is PSI OSCAR ANGULO REYES

2

-

CONFENTIAD

SECRET

(u)

DocId: 32327737 Page 4

---

