# docid-32297352

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10219-10128

HQ

97-4110-2ND NR 135

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, SJ

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/08/1965

4

MDC, JURE, SNFE, DRE, MRR, TRA, CUBA, MBF, RAID,

ATTACK, SPANISH SHIP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32297352

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

MADTON

-3 (Rov: 12-14-61)

DECOD

E/D

CO Y

AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

&X RADIO O TELETYPE

Tolson -

Belmont -

Moh! -

DeLoach .

Casper

Callahan.-

Conrad -

Felt

Gale

Rosen -

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter in

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy

OF CIA MIFOR

OWEN

JFK)

R-20

DEFERRED 2-8-65

TO DIRECTOR (105-712089% AND MIAMI (105-6133)

FROM SAN JUAN

081447

DECL

Đ4 3/3197

BED DY 5668 SLONCE

INER

M. DC.

SEGUNDO FRENTE NACIONAL DEL ESCAMBRAY (SNFE), IS-CUBA.

NEUTRALITY ACT; 00: MIAMI.

ON FEBRUARY 5 LAST TEODORO ENRIQUE CASADO CUERVO

(PROTECT), ARRIVED IN SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO ABOARD THE

MOTOR VESSEL "SHARK 5'"

' FROM EIGHT MONTHS IN SANTO DOMINGO,

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.. ABOARD WERE SIX MEMBERS OF THE CREW

OF THE "VENUS," A JURE VESSEL, WHO WERE EN, ROUTE TO MIAMI.

THE FOUR REMAINING CREW MEMBERS ABOARD THE VENUS ARE

PRESENTLY EN ROUTE FROM SANTO DOMINGO TO PUERTO CABELLO,

VENEZUELA WHERE THEY WILL AWAIT FURTHER ORDERS FROM JURE.

CASADO STATES THAT HE HAD SPOKEN WITH DOMINICAN GENERAL

(FIRST NAME UNKNOWN) ATILA LUNA, WHO STATED THAT ELOY

GUTIERREZ MENOYO AND HIS THREE COMPANIONS FROM THE SNE

RECENTLY CAPTURED IN CUBA, DID NOT TRAVEL TO CUBA BY BOAT,

BUT IN FACT WERE TRANSPORTED BY AIRPLANE AND DROPPED IN BY

PARACHUTE ON THREE SUCCESSIVE NIGHTS ABOUT DECEMBER 15,

1964. THE PLANE USED WAS AN UNMARKED DOMINICAN AIR FORCE

PLANE. CASADO STATED THAT AS OF FEBRUARY 3 LAST, THE

SNFE STILL HAS OVER 100 MEN IN THEIR BASE IN SANTO DOMINGO

AND THE USE OF TWO BOATS, THE "MAMEYES" AND A SMALL SIGMA

TYPE LAUNCH BELONGING TO THE MDC. MARIANO BATISTA FALLA,

-Mic

tride 5-13-94/551

INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

GLASSIED

DATE

5/85

1-4110-

NOT

RECORDED

46 FEB 1 6 1965

BYSP6 BOR

69 FEB 2 4 1965 ≤

CONF

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

ORIGINAL FILED

NH 54027

DocTd: 32297352

Page 2

---

