# docid-32298625

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10222-10401

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3267-537

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/23/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JRO, ASSOC, TRA, DC TRIP, POSTPONED, TELCAL,

SYNDICATE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45945 DocId: 32298625

Page 1

9

---

## Page 2

FD 3$ (Rev., 12-13-56)

т..

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 11/23/63

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

PAON-put

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-113C)

' JOHN

ROSELLI, aka

AR

On 11/15 & 16/63 LA 4393-C advised that

ROSSELLI and MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN and two women, ARLENE

MILLER and DINA STEPHENS planned to leave Los Angeles

early on the morning of 11/16/63 for Phoenix, Arizona,

where they would stay overnight and then proceed to

Washington, D.C., where they would arrive on the evening

of 11/17/63.

Informant said they were to be accompanied

by a

"high powered" attorney and were going to Washington

"to meet a Congressman."

The above four people proceeded to Phoenix,

Arizona, via American Airlines Flight #70, which left

Los Angeles at 6:55 AM on 11/16/63.

The Phoenix Office advised that ROSSELLI and

FRIEDMAN and two females, later determined to be A. MILLER

Scottsdale, Arizona,

on the morning of 11/18/63; that ROSSELLI and FRIEDMAN

traveled via air to Las Vegas, Nevada, and the two girls

returned via air to Los Angeles, California; that A.

MILLER gavé the limousine driver several postcards to

mail and that one of them was addressed to her mother,

Mrs. CONSTANCE PRESCOTT,

Santa Ana, California, and

contained a message that the Washington trip had beer

postponed.

REC- 46

3) - Bureau

EX-103,

97=3267-537

Los Angeles

20 NOV 25 1993

HFD : BA

(4)

14.98

c c. Wick,

241

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

- M

NW 45945 DocId:32298625 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 92-113C

While at the hotel a call was made to a Mr.

SUGARMAN at telephone #274-9201 in Beverly Hills, California.

He was not in but returned the call to ROSSELLI a couple

of hours later.

The hotel records reflect that a Mr.

SUGARMAN made the reservations for the four people.

Telephone #274-9201 is listed to the H & B American

Corporation, Beverly Hills, California.

A Dun and Bradstreet

report regarding this company shows a HAROLD R. SUGARMAN

as Vice President and Treasurer.

On 11/20/63 C

RCI, advised

that he had had lunch that day with JONIE

TAPS (a friend

of ROSSELLI and TAPS stated that ROSSELLI and FRIEDMAN

had gone to Scottsdale, Arizona, last Friday with a couple

of girls and were to return to Los Angeles on 11/20/63.

TAPS also said that a third individual who "was a member

of the syndicate"went with FRIEDMAN and ROSSELLI.

The Las Vegas Office advised that ROSSELLI and

FRIEDMAN arrived in Las Vegas on 11/18/63 and ROSSELLI

registered at the Desert Inn Hotel. Subsequently ROSSELLI

was observed in a lengthy conversation with RUBY KOLOD OI

the Desert Inn Hotel.

OTHER 4

- 2-

HW 45945 DocId: 32298625 Page 3

---

