# docid-32277355

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/24/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER:

180-10147-10274

RECORD SERIES : EILEEN DINNEEN HSCA MATERIAL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Released under the John

• Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :NU 54214

Date:

10-11-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

SECRET SERVICE PROTECTIVE CASES

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/19/1978

28

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

USSS, METHODOLOGY

USSS, FILES

MEMORANDUM

Unclassified

Open in Full

Release

05/24/2017

This document has been in the possession of an HSCA staff member before it was turned over to the

Assassination Records Review Board on August 15, 1995.

v9.1

NN 54214 DocId: 32277355

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MEMORANDUM

To:

Dick Billings

From: Eileen Dinneen

Date: October 19, 1978

Re :

Draft due November 1, 1978 - Secret Service Protective Cases

A complete review of all protective cases established by the Secret

Service during the time period covered from March, 1963 through December,

1963 was undertaken to determine what type of individuals necessitated the

opening of a case file, what criteria was used in deciding whether or not

the person constituted a threat,

and to evaluate how the service handled

threatening individuals. Of the 413 total cases reviewed, it was established

that there

were

seven

major categories that resulted in the Secret Service

opening case files on individuals. Six areas involved immediate threat poten-

tial; the seventh area, miscellaneous, is a catch all category for subjects

coming to the attention of the Secret Service and not posing an immediate

threat but of possible future interest. The seven major sources identified

area:

1) Puerto Rican dissidents, 2) black militants, 3) right wing extremists,

4) left wing extremists, 5) Cuban revolutionaries, 6) dangerous mental cases/

alcoholics, and 7) miscellaneous - job seekers, obscene letter writers, White

House visitors, etc. A fine line exists between the latter two categories, •

as many White House visitors, letters writers, etc. were deemed to be mental

cases after interviews and/or diagnosis by a doctor. A further breakdown of

the last categories exists in Appendix C.

1N 54214

A. LIAISON

Before reviewing each individual threat, however, the question of re-

ferral and liaison must be raised. The Secret Service was not and still is

not an investigative agency. The Service relies on other agencies for infor-

mation regarding dissidents, criminals, and mental patients. Only when an

individual expresses interest in a protectee does the Secret Service become

DocId: 32277355

Page 2

---

## Page 3

seballi.

1IUO, LL DECOMES Important to establish

whether or not the Secret Service had close contact with other government

agencies, to the point that referrals were made as regarded threatening in-

dividuals. The first agency studied closely was the F.B.I. It was determined

that in 413 cases, 75 were definitely referred to the Secret Service by the

Bureau. Out of those 75, 59 were referred subsequent to JFK's assassination.

Only sixteen cases had been referred to the Service prior to the Dallas motor-

cade. (See Appendix

A and B).

The following is a chart to show the case

numbers of the individuals referred prior as opposed to those given following

Kennedy's death.

BEFORE

184, 505? 106, 1102

137,

140, 143, 152,

154,

225, and

381.

AFTER

1, 3, 13, 23, 30, 40, 42, 44,

47, 49, 192, 212, 216, 221,

231, 235, 237, 238, 242, 243,

247, 255, 263,

315, 316, 317,

329, 330, 331,

355, 362, 367, 370,

384, 386, 387, 388, 398, 399,

405, 410, and 411.

Eight additional cases appeared to have been F.B.I. referrals, although

• no credit was given the F.B.I. Those case numbers were: 17, 24, 28, 29, 31,

41, 363, and 390. The case numbers are given to enable easy referral to JFK

Document No. 008894 (complete survey of the 413 Protective Research cases

established by the Secret Service from March - December, 1963) •

Other

agencies were also responsible for giving the Secret Service leads

on potentially dangerous individuals. The Armed Services referred four Pro-

tective Research cases: Army - Case # 103 and # 280; Navy - Case # 125 and

# 130. Other agencies in contact with the Secret Service included: Treasury

(the Department controling the U.S.S.S.), VA hospitals, the National Bureau

of Standards, the Washington D.C. hospital, the Soviet embassy in Washington,

the Veteran's Administration, the Postal Authority in Dallas, the Bureau of

Customs in Philadelphia, the Department of Commerce, N.S.A., Social Security,

the State Department, CAS (Costa Rica), the American embassy in Germany and

NN 54214

DocId: 32277355

Page 3

---

## Page 4

From: Eileen Dinneen

Date: October 19, 1978

Re :

Draft due November 1, 1978 - Secret Service Protective Cases

A complete

review of all protective cases established by the Secret

Service during the time period covered from March, 1963 through December,

1963 was undertaken to determine what type of individuals necessitated the

opening of a case file, what criteria was used in deciding whether or not

the person constituted a threat, and to evaluate how the Service handled

threatening individuals. Of the 413 total cases reviewed, it was established

that there were seven major categories that resulted in the Secret Service

opening case files on individuals. Six areas involved immediate threat poten-

tial; the seventh area, miscellaneous, is a catch all category for subjects

coming to the attention of the Secret Service and not posing an immediate

threat but of possible future interest. The seven major sources identified

area: 1) Puerto Rican dissidents, 2) black militants, 3) right wing extremists,

4) left wing extremists, 5) Cuban revolutionaries, 6) dangerous mental cases/

alcoholics, and 7) miscellaneous - job seekers, obscene letter writers, White

House visitors, etc. A fine line exists between the latter two categories,

as many White House visitors, letters writers, etc. were deemed to be mental

cases after interviews

and/or diagnosis by a doctor. A further breakdown of

the last categories exists in Appendix C.

A. LIAISON

Before reviewing each individual threat, however, the question of re-

ferral and liaison must be raised. The Secret Service was not and still is

not an investigative agency. The Service relies on other agencies for infor-

mation regarding dissidents, criminals, and mental patients. Only when an

individual expresses

interest in a protectee does the Secret Service become

directly involved in a case. In other words, agents do not go out looking

for threatening individuals. The Service relies on liaison with other agencies

1N 54214

DocId: 32277355 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Page two

to obtain this type of information. Thus, it becomes important to establish

whether or not the Secret Service had close contact with other government

agencies, to the point that referrals were made as regarded threatening in-

dividuals. The first agency studied closely was the F.B.I. It was determined

that in 413 cases, 75 were definitely referred to the Secret Service by the

Bureau. Out of those 75, 59 were referred subsequent to JFK's assassination.

Only sixteen cases had been referred to the Service

prior to the Dallas motor-

cade. (See Appendix A and B) .

The following is a chart to show the case

numbers of the individuals referred prior as opposed to those given following

Kennedy's death.

BEFORE

18, 45, 75,

104,

92, 102,

105, 106, 127,

137, 140, 143, 152,

154, 225,

and 381.

263, 264, 265,

308, 311, 312,

10m

318, 323,

325,

332, 334,

340,

379,

Eight additional cases appreared to have been F.B.I. referrals, although

no credit was given the F.B.I. Those case numbers were: 17, 24, 28, 29, 31,

41, 363, and 390. The case numbers are given to enable easy referral to JFK

Document No. 008894 (complete survey of the 413 Protective Research cases

established by the Secret Service from March - December, 1963) •

Other agencies were

also responsible for giving the Secret Service leads

on potentially dangerous individuals. The Armed Services referred four Pro-

tective Research cases: Army - Case # 103 and #

280; Navy - Case # 125 and

# 130. Other agencies in contact with the Secret Service included: Treasury

(the Department controling

the U.S.S.S.), VA hospitals, the National Bureau

of Standards, the Washington D.C. hospital, the Soviet embassy in Washington,

the Veteran's Administration, the Postal Authority in Dallas, the Bureau of

Customs in Philadelphia, the Department of Commerce, N.S.A., Social Security,

NH 54214 * DocId:32277355 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Page three

the CIA (which referred Case #401 involving a Panamanian plot against JFK).

Local police departments in areas Kennedy had trips scheduled were

also active in making referrals. A list of 13 such individual cases follows:

New York P.D. - Case #109 and #233

Austin P.D. - Case #174

Washington, D.C. Police - Case #203 and #204

Florida P.D. - Case #205

New Jersey P.D. - Case #207

Maryland P.D. - Case #214

Arkansas P.D. - Case #241

Connecticut P.D. - Case #273

Monrovia, California P.D. - Case #327

Houston P.D. - Case

#328

Miami P.D. - Case #364

One point of conflict in the statistics given above and a memo dated

3/31/64 from J. Edgar Hoover to Rankin concerns information fed the Miami

Secret Service and the Dallas Secret Service field offices in 1963.

Hoover

states that Dallas was given the name Norman Lee Elkins. A review of the 413

files shows no Elkins mentioned. The question must be raised as to the ac-

curacy of Hoover's staement or to the standards set by the Secret Service to

begin a file on a potentially threatening individual. Since the Secret Service

procedure called for each field office to inform Headquarters and the Protec-

tive Research Section every time a subject case file was opened, this informa-

tion should have reached PRS, where all files were centralized.

B. ORGANIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

In view of the fact that a person's political and personal feelings

might be influenced by the types of organizations he belongs to, Secret Service

criteria for determining the extent and seriousness of an individual's threat

# Footnote: National Archikes, JFK Assassination files, Box I, file box

NW 54214

DocId: 32277355 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Page four

included checking whether or not the subject was a member of a subversive,

racist, or nationalistic organization.

The following pages list the various organizations to which the PRS

subjects belonged and the number that belonged in each.

Since many times

one individual was

a member of several organizations, a further break down

of each group can be found on pages seven and eight.

54214

DooId: 32277355

Page

---

## Page 8

page five

Puerto Rican Groups

PRN - Puerto Rican Nationalists:

7

July 26th Movement: 1

3.

NPPR:

10

4. PSP - Partido Socialista Puertorriqueno: 13

5.

FUPI - Federacion de Universitarios pro Independencia:

6.

PIP - Partido Independencia Puertorriqueno:

7.

MSP - Movimiento Socialista Popular:

1

8.

PCP - communist (Partido Obrero Liberador): 3

9. MIRA - Movimiento Ind. Rev. en Armas:

2

10. PSO: 1

11. PSR: 1

12. • FUAR - Frente Unido Anti-Represive: 1

13.

MPIPR: 1

14. APU: 3

15. MAPA: 1

16. LSP - Liga Socialista Puertorriqueno:

17. JIP - Joventud Indep. Puertorriqueno:

1

1

18. FNP: 1

19. MLPR: 1

20. MPI:

1

21.

DOR - Directorio Obrero

Rev.

de P.R.: 1

22. WWP: 1

8

Black Groups

1.

Uhuru (now RAM) : 3

a..

3.

5.

BPP: 1

IBWC :

1

NOI :

5

CORE: 1

6.

86.

49.

NAACP : 1

Ahmaddiya:

Nations of Islam:

Hanafi Muslim:

1

2

Extremist Groups

Communist Party:

2. Americans for Constitutional

Action:

3. KKK:

8

4. National States Rights

Party:

7

5.

John Birch Society:

6.

Anti-Communist League:

1

7.

American Nazi Party:

9

8.

National Socialist White Peoples Party:

9. SHRIKE:

1

10. National Youth Alliance:

1

11. Minutemen:

2

12. Socialist Labor Party:

13. Citizen's Council of America:

1

14. Freedom in Action Society:

1

15. Let Freedom Ring Society:

1

16. Indignant White Citizen's

Council: 3

17. Constitution

Party of the

18. White Citizen's Council

U.S.:

1

of

America: 1

19. Congress of Freedom:

1

20. Van-Vanguardia de Accion National

(pro-Castro):

HN 34214

DocId: 32277355 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Page six

21.

People's Party;

1

22.

MUR:

1

23. Panamenista Party (PD):

Anti-Castro Cuban Groups

1.

Anti-Castro Cuban:

2 . .

MIRR:

3. BOMB:

3

4.

RD:

1

5.

CCG:

1

6 .

7.

AC :

CORU :

1

1

1

HH 54214

DocId: 32277355

Page

9

---

## Page 10

Page seven

PUERTO RICAN GROUPS

PRN - Puerto Rican Nationalists

July 26th Movement

NPPR

Partido Socialista Puertorriqueno

FUPI - Fed. de Universitarios pro Indep.

PIP - Partido Indep. Puertorriqueno

Movimiento Socialista Popular (MSP)

PCP - communist (Partido Obrero Liberador)

MIRA - Movimiento Ind. Rev. en Armas

PSO

PSR

FUAR - Frente Unido Anti-Represive

MPIPR

APU

MAPA

ISP - Liga Socialista Puertorriqueno

JIP - Joventud Indep. Puertorriqueno

FNP

MLPR

MPI

DOR - Directorio Obrero Rev. de P.R.

WWP

NUMBERS INVOLVED

TH

# 111

BLACK GROUPS

Uhuru (now RAM) - Revolutionary Action Movement

BPP - Black Panther Party

IBWC_-_Internat'] Black Workers Congress-

NOT = Nation of Islam

CORE - Congress on Racial Equality

NAACP

Ahmaddiya

Hanafi Muslim

HH

54214

DocId: 32277355

Page

10

---

## Page 11

Page eight

EXTREMIST GROUPS

Communist League

Socialist Workers Party

Communist Party -

Americans

For Constitutional Action

KKK (Ku. Klux Klan)

NSRP_ National States_ Rights Party

JBS - John Birch Society

Anti-Communist League

ANP = American Nazi Party

National socialist white Peoples Party

SHRIKE - Society to Harrass Reds and Kikes (Case #49)

National _Youth Alliance

Minutemen

Socialist Labor Party

Citizen's Council of_America

Freedom

in Action Society

Let Freedom Ring Society

Indignant White Citizen's Council (Dallas)

Constitution Party of the U.s.

White Citizen's Council of America

Congress_of Freedom

ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN GROUPS

MIRR

BOMB

RD_

CCG

AC

CORU

OTHER LATIN GROUPS

Van-Vanguardia de Accion Nat'l (pro-Castro)

People's Party

MUR

Panamenista Party

NUMBERS INVOLVED

Ht_

NUMBERS INVOLVED

NUMBERS INVOLVED

** A number in black represents one individual who belongs to no other group

A number in red represents an individual who belongs to several groups

A number in green represents an individual who associates with members of

that particular organization but is

not himself a member

HH 54214

DooId: 32277355

Page 11

---

## Page 12

Page nine

C.

SERIOUS THREATS

Further review of the files was made to determine which of the 413

cases were strong threat potentials. This was necessary due to the fact that

many cases

were established for no other reason than the various individuals

were letter writers or visitors to the White House seeking restitution for

"wrongs".

The standards used by the Secret Service in determining if an

individual exhibited threatening behavior varied. Generally speaking, if a

subject expressed an opinion violently against a protectee, seemed hostile

or unstable, and/or showed undue interest in firearms, the Secret Service

deemed that person a threat. To evaluate which of the 413 cases initiated

during the relevant time period involved definite threats, the following

Team It judged that

criteria was used. "The case was of protective interest if after the initial

interview a continued investigation by the Secret Service or F.B.I. occurred,

quarterly investigations (QI's) were instituted, the interviewing agent spec-

ifically stated that the individual should be considered dangerous, and/or

arrest, prosecution and commitment to an institution resulted.

By such definition, 95 cases

were identified.

The ensuing list encom-

passes those cases which the Secret Service determined necessitated their full

attention. Included, also, is the Service's response to the threat.

Cases considered dangerous by the Secret Service

#1

[Perez-vega, Virgilio] referred by the FBI, 12-16-63. Possesses pistol

and makes bombs. Put under

surveillance during Presidential visit in

1965. In 2/67 - considered dangerous.

#2

Diaz-Diaz, Angel Ramon } in jail until 1968 due to involvement in 10-30-50

revolt. Special Agent's opinion that subject is of protective interest

due to mental condition and propensity for violence.

QI's until 1970.

#6 (Guzman-colon, Jose t

VA psychiatrist told of interest in assassination

to S.S. Subject has rifles. Schizo-paranoid. Considered dangerous

by doctor and Special Agent. QI's 1/64 - 10/65.

NW 54214

DooId: 32277355

Page 12

---

## Page 13

: *

HH 54214

Page ten

Babell-Martinez, Narciso) - wrote to president in 1960. urged Puerto

Ricans to violence.

Noted for use of explosives. No mention made if

Secret Service interviewed him, no lI's yet the S.S. seemed aware of

his whereabouts.

Rua-Rullan, Pedro Juan - S.S. kept check on his movements. Investigation

revealed subject as potentially dangerous but not known to have been

violent. QI's from 9/67 - 2/70.

49 [Aguao-Hernandez, angel luis 7 guerrilla tactics and sabotage. Considered

dangerous by those who know him. Armed and dangerous. QI's 11/67-11/71.

#12 [Jaca-Hernandez, Juan/-

sentenced to four life sentences for 10/30/50 revolt

but pardoned in late 60's.' QI's from 2/69 - 2/70.

Rodriquez - Santiago, Jose Neftali

1960 picketed Eisenhower. Fanatic

capable of violence, advocates violence. QI's 8/67 - 2/70.

Rodriquez-Nunez, Manuel -

1965 reportedly planned to set bombs during a

Puerto Rican election. QI's from 3/66 - 7/68.

#19/

Hernandez-Rivera, Gregorio - Involved in 10-30-50 revolt, Released in

1960 and file was established on 6/6/63. lI's from 6/64 - 4/65.

Otero-Martinez, Manuel

file established after the assassination but

subject not interviewed until 5/13/66. Showed violent attitudes so

lI's continued from 5/66 until 7/69.

#21 Melendez-Colon, Arturo f arrested 1/65 with weapons so QI'8 1/66 - 9/67.

Alvarez-Archilla, Luis Degracia

involved in plot to conduct acts of

violence. QI's from 2/68 - 1/70 and following return from Domican

Republic, lI's were reinitiated from 8/70 - 6/74.

(ortiz-Belaval, Jose Benjamin involved continuously in national picket-

ing, including the White House. QI's from 7/65 - 7/68.

suarez-Bezmudez, Andres -Jowns mauser and wants Puexto Rican independence.

QI's from 7/65 - 2/70.

Described as mentally unbalanced.

428 ripp, take Samuel Samued - black militant in Uhura, 22/69 considered of

protective interest no longer. QI's discontinued.

DocId: 32277355 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Page ten

/Rabell-Martinez, Narciso)- wrote to President in 1960. Urged Puerto

Ricans to violence. Noted for use of explosives. No mention made if

Secret Service interviewed him, no lI's yet the S.S. seemed aware of

his whereabouts.

/ Rua-pullan, Pedro Juan - S.S. Kept check on his movements. Investigation

revealed subject as potentially dangerous but not known to have been

violent. QI's from 9/67: - 2/70.

(agudo-Hernandez, angel Luis ] guerrilla tactics and sabotage. Considered

dangerous by those who know him. Armed and dangerous. QI's 11/67 - 11/71.

#22 Jaca-Hernandez, Juan/-

• sentenced to four life sentences for 10/30/50 revolt

but pardoned in late 60's.'

QI's from 2/69 - 2/70.

Rodriquez - Santiago, Jose Neftali

1960 picketed Eisenhower. Fanatic

capable of violence, advocates violence. QI's 8/67 - 2/70.

#17

Rodriquez-Nunez, Manuel

1965 reportedly planned to set bombs during a

Puerto Rican election.

DI's from 3/66 - 7/68.

Hernandez-Rivera, Gregorio involved in 10-30-50 revolt. Released in

1960 and file was established on 6/6/63. QI's from 6/64 - 4/65.

#20 / Otero-Martinez, Manuel

file established after the assassination but

subject not interviewed until 5/13/66. Showed violent attitudes so

QI's continued from 5/66 until 7/69.

#21 /Melendez-colon, Arturo J arrested 1/65 with weapons so lI's 1/66 - 9/67.

Alvarez-Archilla, Luis Degracia

involved in plot to conduct acts of

violence. QI's from 2/68 - 1/70 and following return from Domican

Republic, LI's were reinitiated from 8/70 - 6/74.

Ortiz-Belaval, Jose Benjamin - involved continuously in national picket-

ing, including the White House. QI's from 7/65 - 7/68.

#27

Suarez-Bermudez, Andres

/owns mauser

and wants Puerto Rican independence.

QI's from 7/65 - 2/70.

Described as mentally unbalanced.

Tripp, Luke Samuel (Jr.)

- black militant in Uhura. 12/69 considered of

protective interest no longer. QI's discontinued.

NW 54214 DocId:32277355 Page 14

!.:

---

## Page 15

:

Page eleven

#29 watson, Kenneth John - black militant in Uhuru. S.5- investigation

from 8/63 - 1/64.

430 (Featherston, AlFred Dwight aims) - subversive affiliations and potential

assassin. Connunist Party member and black groups. QI's 10/64. 1962

assault with intent to murder. 5/72 received 6 years for arson. Still

of interest to the Secret Service.

432 Bakex, ceneral Condon (J.) - black militant with firearms Mesaulted

police. QI's until 12/69.

#41

Adams, Kenneth Lamar

KKK and background of violence. Does not show

Secret Service interest. Indicated FBI check ups instead.

Lassiter, James Watson

made derogatory comment about assassination.

Right winger.

QI's from 1/65 - 1/69. No further protective interest.

Lloyd, Robert Allison/- American Nazi Party associations and mental in-

stability. Knowledge of firearms. Special Agent interviewed him 10/65

and considered him dangerous. QI's continued until 3/71.

+52 roage, Richard Randolph owns weapons. John Birch society member.

Considered dangerous by interviewing agent.

456 terrol, Kenneth Franklin schizo paranoid, Threatening letters to

JEK and Nixon.

s.s. tried to prosecute but intoxication during threat

prevented the charge from applying. Knowledge of firearms.

#60

i Bosch-Avia, Orlande - cuban revolutionary Involved in bombings.

Secret Service considered him dangerous although no record seen of lI's.

#61 Islam, Nurul

threat letters.

Schizophrenic diagnosis in 1963. The S.S.

kept tabs on him. In 1969 he was

considered not of protective interest.

Committed in 1963 by the request of the Secret Service.

#62

Newborn, Wiley

threat letter.

Committed in 1963 for schizophrenia by

the Secret Service.

#64

Sheets, Donald Hudson

White House visitor, paranoid schizophrenic.

QI's '63 - 12/65.

NH 54214 DocId:32277355 Page 15

---

## Page 16

Page twelve

#65 / Norcia, Ralph Francis -

White House visitor, schizo-paranoid. Committed

in 1965 from the Washington Office.

#66 / Dorn, Charles

- friendly mental but OI's from 12/65 - 9/72.

#69| Lanigan, Charles Bernard (Jr.))

letters regarding assassination. Schizo-

phrenic. Interviews from 1965 - 11/67.

+74 Smith, Martin udell) threat letter. Paranoid-schizophrenie. s.s. con-

mitted subject 4/63. Considered dangerous by interviewing agent.

#77

Templeman, George Bryan (Jr.) - threat letters. Arrested for threats.

QI's discontinued 7/68.

+80 /Donovan, John Lavence fux.) - threat letters, diagnosed schizophrenic.

Interviewed in 1963, in 1967 he was sentenced for 5 years for burglary.

Interviewed in prison and deemed no longer of protective interest.

Benter, Stanley James

alcoholic and source of threats. S.S. tried to

prosecute in 1963 but intoxication during threat prevented prosecution.

Special Agent deemed him no threat in 1976.

McGurrin, William Joseph

threat letter. Violent temper.

Interviewed

but not considered dangerous. Hospitalized in 1963. Made reports on

this subject until 1968. Knowledge of weapons, paranoid but not con-

#89

sidered dangerous.

Knox, Jefferson Dale/

threat telegram. Schizo-paranoid. Considered

dangerous by Special Agent in 5/63 and QI's until 6/70. Assault with

a deadly weapon.

Hoxton, Orman Briggs - White House visitor, schizophrenic. Hostile.

QI's from 1968 - 10/70.

#97 Cook, william f schizophrenic.

Regarded as possibly dangerous and com-

mitted from the White House in 12/64.

199 Berry, Andrew Anthony threat Letter. Diagnosed schizophrenie. Con-

sidered dangerous.

Hospitalized in 1967. Subject kept on files.

+202/Magdalene, Emanuel - schizo-paranoid, in 1963 not of interest. Threats

became stronger

in subsequent years. Arrested in 1966 under 18 USC 871.

HH 54214

DocId: 32277355 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Page 13

#103

#107

Committed in 1968 and 1969.

Loftredo, Raymond Anthony

Steadman, David Alvin

schizo-paranoid. QI's from 6/63 - 10/67.

schizo-paranoid, considered very dangerous.

Not of interest to Special Agent in 6/63 but lI's from 3/64 - 12/68.

#109

Under surveillance in 1970 during a Presidential visit.

Patterson, Marcellus Moss - oral threat, mental. QI's in 1963 - 1966.

Not deemed dangerous.

#111 /

Fails, Virginia Lee

schizo-paranoid, dangerous; but no further inves-

tigation evidence past 7/63.

#112 Alexy, John Carl f paranoid-schizo. Committed from White House 1967.

In 1969, determined to be capable of violence. QI's discontinued 4/71.

#113

(Johnson, James Robert

- mental, threat letter. QI's 2/64 - 10/67; 6/68 -

4/69. Arrested in 1972 for 18 Sec 871. QI's reinitiated.

#114/

Major, Marvin Edward

abusive letters. SA reported subject dangerous

#120

in 2/65. Committed 3/65 by Secret Service.

Shoemaker, Shirley Monroe -

until 1967.

impersonation, 7/63 of protective interest

#123

Bradburn, Raymond Marion Joseph

psychotic, threat letter. QI's 7/63 -

' 68.

Served 4 year sentence for threat. No longer threat potential.

Hawkins, James Arville

threat, arrested as result. Numerous interviews.

Last interview was

: 3/68.

#131 Fuller, Melvin y Friendly letters, paranoid. In 1966, subject was com-

mitted from

the White House. QI's discontinued 5/69; reinitiated 5/71

#137

for one week.

Brasmell, Harolaf letter thrcat. Committed by searct service and intar

viewed several times up until 1968.

wilson, Lloyd John] threat, ANp sympathizez, schizophrenic. Told police

he would kill LBJ and RFK.

Extremely dangerous. QI's 11/63 - 3/69.

The

S.S. tried to prosecute in 1963 on Sec 871.

HH 54214 DocId:32277355 Page 17

---

## Page 18

Page 14

#142 (Hicks, Doyle Allen/- White House visitor, mental. Committed Exora

White House in 1963. QI'S 10/63 - 3/69.

#147

Lindley, Robert Willis - letter writer, mental. lI's discont. 12/68.

1249 Johnson, alden Bernara White House visitor, schizophrenic. Checkups

from 1963 until 3/67. Trained in explosives.

[Cichowiez, John Jacob - lettex, mental instability. Committed from the

White House in 1965 and 1969. QI's from 3/69 - 4/69.

#156

Warrington, John William - psychosis. Interviewed in 1963 and 1966

after making threats against JFK and RFK. SA reported subject as men-

tally ill. QI's NOT initiated. Difficult to determine if subject was

considered a threat.

Hovland, Orville Merle Lange

letter threat, member of the John Birch

Society. QI's from 1965 until 1969.

Smith, Jack Hervert

obscene letter writer and dangerous schizophrenic.

Committed in 1963 after interview. QI's 4/66 - 1/76.

#170 Vallee, Thomas Arthur - critical remarks regarding JFK. Member of the

#173

John Birch Society. Owned weapons. QI's 1963 - 1968.

Parrott, James Milton f threat.

Member of the John Birch Society. LI's

1/64 - 5/70.

#176 Oswald, Lee Harvey - S.S. unaware of existence until after assassination.

191 | weatherington, Robert Alfred special Agent considered dangerous; subject

arrested 11/63 on 18 Sec 871.

Case dismissed but S.s. kept up

interviews.

Webb, Richard Doyle

American Nazi Party and KKK associate.

lI's from

'63 - '69. Psychotic.

#200 degaarden, Arnold I posteard threat. Sehizophrenic. Considered danger-

ous by the interviewing agent. QI's from 6/64 - 1/70. Committed in

1964 due to Presidential threat.

Williams, Phillip

planned to visit Mrs. Kennedy.

Mentally retarded.

Checkups 4/64 - 12/64.

NH 54214 DocId:32277355 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Page 15

#205

Wilson, Edward Norman.

sign re JFK's death. QI's '63 - 3/68.

Mental

treatment in 1953.

+208/Fanars, Louis threat. Arrested 11/63 and put in the state hospital.

QI's from 12/65 - 12/67.

#210

Padilla, Omar Franciscal threat against IBJ. Subject owns a rifle.

DI's 12/63 - 4/66.

Prosecution denied.

#212

Steinmetz, Charles Hirum abusive remarks.

12/65 confined under 871.

Charge dismissed due to mental treatment.

[Flores, Rafael -threatened IBJ. Schizophrenic. Kept under surveillance.

#222 Burns, James Francis threatened to pull another Oswald. Arrested 12/63

for 18 Sec 871. QI's from 12/63 - 3/68.

Mczarry, Russell wence

remark regarding his rifle and JFK. Arrested

12/63 under 871. Last interviewed 9/67.

#225 Oswald, James Michael - mental. QI's 11/63 - 12/68.

#231

Nagell, Richard Case - prisoner claiming Oswald acquaintance. Interviewed

1/64 and in 11/67. SA determined subject no longer of protective interest.

#236 Fennell, Robert Beaty

- letter threat, owns guns. QI's '68 - 12/71.

Twice prosecuted for 871.

Reynolds, Barney Henry

said offered job to kill the President. Committed

by the Secret Service 12/63.

Subject charged with assault earlier that

year.

#248

(Minter, Floya,

mental. Checkups 12/63 - 6/68.

#257

Ferrara, Louis E. A letter writer, arrested 3/64 on Sec 871. Checkups

until 9/67.

4272 Gardner, Marvin Dale Letter threat. Interviewed several times, last

one 6/65.

4278 parker, W31liam Bonicell paranoid schizophrenic. eT's 12/63 - 3/67.

In 1970 subject talked about assassinating President so lI's resumed

from 1970 - 2/71.

NH 54214 DocId: 32277355 Page 19

---

## Page 20

Page 16

#288

Dodge, Donald I.

paranoid.

Subject called on the Secret Service.

Arrested by the police because of interest shown by S.s. in 7/66.

QI's 1/64 - 11/68. State hospital.

+202 ashburn, Harry Leonara] convict, paychotio. Interviened 8/64 and

10/67. No longer of protective interest.

#355 (Jaylox, Clifton Hughs) disliked IBJ. SA considered subject potential

danger. Interviewed 10/64 and 6/65. Checked closely due to agent's

feeling that if mental condition deteriorated, subject would be ex-

tremely dangerous.

QI's ended 2/68.

#367 Berry, wilford Lee f Communist Party, pro-Castro and schizophrenic.

7/64 interview, the interviewing agent considered the subject dangerous.

10/67 hostile interview. Knowledge of weapons.

Volpe, Nicholas Michael alcoholic. Interviewed 3/65 and 11/66. He

was charged with 871 but charges were dismissed. Dying of cancer.

Starkey, James Lee

letters. QI's begun even though the subject was

committed.

Millis, Monica - senile. Interviewed 1/64 and not considered dangerous.

In 1966 she threatened a Senator and doctors considered her dangerous,

#383

schizophrenic. LI's discontinued 5/69.

Tracy, Robert Barbet letter

threat. QI's 6/67 - 3/77. Subject has guns

and is hostile. S.S. still keeps tabs.

King, Thelma Estella -

- CIA referral regarding a plot to assassinate the

President of Panama.

Does not appear to be s.s. concern, yet the Ser-

vice uses CIA to update the subject's location to keep files current.

#406

Tracy, Mildred Viola

letter writer, QI's from '65 - 11/77. Prosecution

declined on 871 in 1965. Subjects has been confined numerous times.

Has a gun so the Secret Service still keeps tabs.

#110 (Morales-amador, Jorge Bartolome - letters, Intezviewed 3/64 and 12/67.

Not of protective interest at that time. In 1969, threat to Rockefeller

HH 54214 DocId:32277355 Page 20

---

## Page 21

Page 17

and S.S. attempted prosecution on 18 Sec 871.

McGhee, Timothy Ernest

not considered dangerous but subsequent events

(Hanafi Muslim takeover in Washington, D.C.) has placed him on PRS list

with checkups.

A quick overview of the first 15 cases shows an inordinate amount of

interest in Puerto Rican nationalists. This interest by the Secret Service

stems

from

the incident occurring on November I, 1950 outside Blair House in

Washington, D. C. when two Puerto Ricans tried

l to assassinate President Truman.

The would-be-assassins succeeded in killing one White House policeman before

being overcome.

Another group figuring prominently is the right wing extremists.

Their

tendency toward violence, geographic mobility, and their seemingly easy acces-

sability to firearms made this group a major concern to the Secret Service.

A third group of sizeable interest is the black militants. Kennedy,

as the purveyor of equal rights legislation, became President during a viola-

tile period in the black pride and black power movement. Consequently, the

Service kept certain militants under surveillance.

The chart on page 18 indicates the reason

the Secret Service opened a

case file on an individual originally in 1963.

Keep in mind, in some instances

the fact that an individual was a right wing extremist, black, Puerto Rican,

etc., was incidental to the reason for the case coming to the Secret Service's

attention in the first place. Several right wing extremists were discovered

through their abusive letters to the President and many mental cases were ori-

ginally letter writers, phone callers, or White House visitors.

The following chart merely shows the incidence ration of the first five

major threat categories according to the month

each case was established.

MW 54219in66cTAHta2799595 Pagengt so easilv defined due to the varins wave the

---

## Page 22

unan manudts? inas Interest by the Secret Service

stems from the incident occurring on November 1, 1950 outside Blair House in

Washington, D. C. when two Puerto Ricans tried to assassinate President Truman.

The would-be-assassins succeeded in killing one White House policeman before

being overcone.

Another group figuring prominently is the right wing extremists. Their

tendency toward violence, geographic mobility, and their seemingly easy acces-

sability to firearms made this group a major concern to the Secret Service.

A third group of sizeable interest is the black militants. Kennedy,

as the purveyor of equal rights legislation, became President during a viola-

tile period in the black pride and black power movement. Consequently, the

Service kept certain militants under surveillance.

The chart on page 18 indicates the reason the Secret Service opened a

case file on an individual originally in 1963.

Keep

in mind, in

some instances

the fact that an individual was a right wing extremist, black, Puerto Rican,

etc., was incidental to the reason for the case coming to the Secret Service's

attention in the first place. Several right wing extremists were discovered

through their abusive letters to the President and many mental cases were ori-

ginally letter writers, phone callers, or White House visitors.

The following chart merely shows the incidence ration of the first five

major threat categories according to the month each case was established.

Since mental cases are not so easily defined due to the various ways the

Secret Service discovered these individuals, a further breakdown is found in

Appendix C.

Compare this chart to the graph on page 18B which shows all individuals

fitting into the five major categories without regard to the original reason

for establishing a file. (i.e., if a person was a letter writer, later deter-

mined to be a right wing

extremist, that person is graphed as a right winger.)

For further comparison purposes, the five major categories are shown next to

the rest of the cases

(labeled miscellaneous) established for.that-partiouler

month. These "miscellaneous" cases are generally individuals with mental pro-

blems ranging from harmless

to paranoid-schizophrenic

54214 DooId: 32277355 Page 22

---

## Page 23

REASON FOR ESTABLISHING SECRET SERVICE CASE FILE

Page 18

30

24

28

21

26

25

24

23

22

16

15

Assassination of JFK

111/22/63

1100000000==

12

10

9

Mh.

My

JN.

Puerto Rican

Black Militant

Right Wing

Left wing

Cubans

S

N

D

before

Note: Of the 24 investigations on Puerto

Ricans in December, 8 cases unde

cated a reopening of an alread

established file. Those & cases are

not graphed tó prevent confusion as

to the nimber actually initiated in Dec.

The date of origin for Case 8 was un.

clear t thus added to those of Dec.

NH 54214 DocId:32277355 Page 23

---

## Page 24

PROTECTIVE RESCARCH CASES

established March- Dec. '63

36

35:

34

33

32

31

30

29

28

27

26:

25

# of individual cases

5

X

X

XI

Mh.

Mr

Jw..

HW 54214

Puerto Riian

Black Militant

None ing

doge 21

XXXX.

JY

X

XX

X

X

Ag

XO

S

Left Wing

Cubans..

XXXXXX.

X

X

X

XX

XX

11/22/63

X

X

X

OX

N

X

X

I|IX X

X

XXXXXX

X

XXXXXXXXX

X

X

XX

D

18 E

XXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXX

---

## Page 25

Page 19

In contrast to the 95 cases delineated by the Secret Service as

dangerous and of protective interest, a second search through the files

showed only 42 serious threat cases as defined by Team IV. These cases

refer to threats against JFK only, not other

protectees. This list is

somewhat shorter due to the standards used: the subject had to have come to

the attention of the Secret Service prior to the assassination date or the

s.s. should have been aware

of them by 11/22/63, was not in confinement, was

considered dangerous due to extremist tendencies, mental deviation (diagnosed

by a

physician), and/or knowledge of and access to firearms.

Keep in mind

that Team IV was concerned primarily with JFK's assassination and threats to

Kennedy's safety, while the Secret Service was concerned with any and all

threats to protectees from 1963 to the present.

The following

list includes the 42 cases possessing strong threat

potential to President Kennedy's safety. The case number refers to JFK

Document No. 008894.

The subject is identified by name, as well as by

basis elements that characterize the threat (i.e. nationality and/or extre-

mist group

and the reason for listing the person as dangerous).

Cases

considered threats to President Kennedy using criteria above

N#7

1#9

115

/Rabell-Martinez, Narciso

Puerto Rican with firearms knowledge

gudo-Hernandez, Angel zure,

Puerto Rican with knowledge of guerilla tactics

Rodriquez-santiago, Jose Neftallied puerto Rican with firearms knowledge

Alvarez-Archilla, Luis Degracia: Puerto Rican involved in sabotage piot

#27

(Suzrez-Bermudez, Andres: Puerto Rican with weapons, unbalanced

Tripp, Luke Samuel;

I black militant

8429 (watson, Kenneth John: black militant

#30. eatherston, Alfred Dwight Amosit black involved in assassination plots

U#31: Baker, General Gordon: black militant with access to guns

• #34

(Griffiths, Arthur Jennings: black advocate of violence

NH 54214 DocId:32277355 Page 25

---

## Page 26

#41

Adams, Kenneth Lamar:) KKK member with a history of violence

Page 20

1#49

King,

George Joseph (JId

member of the American Nazi Party, John

"Birch Society, National States Rights Party and founder of SHRIKE

(Society to

Harass Reds & Intimidate Kikes Everywhere) noted for

sale of machine gun

×#50.

Lloyd, Robert Allison:

American Nazi Party member who is a mental case

#51

Hodge, Richard Randolph:

John Birch Society member with firearms and

-explosives

#56

Herrell, Kenneth Franklinid paranoid schizophrenic with knowledge of

firearms and dynamite

/ #60

Bosch-Avila, Orlando: Cuban revolutionary arrested for possession of

1480 Donovan, John Laurence (Je,)) mental case who made assassination threat

#88

McGurrin, William Josephid alcoholic who made assassination threat;

knowledge of weapons

#89

Knox,

Jefferson Dale: violent black with military record showing arrest

-for assault with a deadly weapon

#99.

Perry, Andrew Anthony:

dangerous schizophrenic

Steadman, David Alvin:

dangerous mental case involved in shooting with

Police

17114

Major, Marvin Edward:

dangerous paranoid schizophrenic

-#123

(Bradburn, Raymond Marion Joseph. mental case making assassination threat

-#124

Hawkins, James Arville:

mental case making assassination threat

wilson, Lloyd John: American Nazi Party sympather, paranoid schizophrenic

and considered dangerous

#156 Warrington, John William: mental case who threatened to set up an ambush

for JFK in Florida

-#169

Smith, Jack Herbert: dangerous mental case

#170 Vallee, Thomas Arthur: John Birch Society member who owns weapons

(#176

Oswald, Lee Harvey: Marxist, member of FPCC - ASSASSIN

#194

(weatherington, Robert Alfred:/ dangerous mental case

Webb, Richard Doyle:

association with KKK and American Nazi Party, owner

*of rifles

#200 / odegaarden, Arnolds

#223

(McLarry, Russell wense:

dangerous paranoid schizophrenic

threat regarding ambush of JFK with rifle

NH 54214 DocId:32277355 Page 26

!

---

## Page 27

Page 21

#297

• #364

#374

Mason, James Robert Wilson;

dangerous mental case who threatened JFK

Slakey, Larry Lee:

Socialist Labor Party member who presented a possible

danger

Milteer, Joseph Adams: member of KKK, National States Rights Party, and

White Citizen's Council with

ambush plans

Berry, wilford Lee; pro-Castro Communist Party menber considered a dan-

-gerous mental case. Referred after 11/22/63 by FBI. Knowledge of

firearms.

Marshall-Jimenez, Francisco Jose;

Costa Rican believed involved in assas-

sination attempt on President of Nicaragua

w#383

Tracy, Robert Earl

threat letters, hostile, owns guns

V #401

King, Thelma Estella

assasination plot agalnst Jek and tressdent of Panama

Panamanian adherent to Communism, involved in an

#410 Morales-Amadox, Jorge Bartolome

mental case plotting assassination of JFK

• r#412

McGhee, Timothy Ernest:

religious mental case, Hanafi Muslim, warned S.s.

about impending assassination

2nd write up to make comparisons between s.s. list y Team IV's.

D.

FOREIGN ASSASSINS

In reviewing the 413 computer print outs on Protective Research cases

set up during the time period between March and December, 1963, it became evi-

dent that the Secret Service paid some attention to assassinations in foreign

countries. Case #401 on Thelma Estella King was referred to the Service by

the CIA on 3/8/63. Ms. King was alleged to be involved in an assassination

plot against JFK and the President of Panama during a meeting in that country.

She was reportedly involved in the assassination of former President Ramon

of Panama and in a plot to overthrow the government

of Panama under President

Robles. Case #407 pertains to Chy. Song, a military bodyguard to the Laotian

foreign minister in 1963. On 4/1/63, Song assassinated Quinim Pholsena with

18 shots from his machine gun. Apparently the assassination was well planned

as the other bodyguards did not react to the firing. The assassin's fate was

listed as unknown. Case #409 involves Mohamed Khalifa, who on 4/11/63 mortally

wounded his long time friend, foreign minister of Algeria, by shooting him in

the face. The chauffeur captured the subject

but his final disposition was

HW 54214

DocId: 32277355 Page 27

---

## Page 28

Page 22

given as unknown.

The above three cases show definite Secret Service interest in

foreign affairs. However,

it is questionable as to why the Diem brothers'

assassination was not given a case number. Review of the files showed no

mention, whatsoever, of the assassination occurring in Viet Nam prior to

the planned Chicago trip of Kennedy on November 2, 1963.

E. PRE AND POST ASSASSINATION CASE LOADS

In a comparison study of case loads for the nine months prior to the

assassination and the thirteen months immediately following, see Appendix D.

A quick glance shows that the Secret Service case load on threat subjects

jumped significantly following JEK's death. The number of investigations

initiated for the two months following 11/22/63 outnumbers the investigation

for the ten months totaled in 1963.

Though not surprising, the number of

cases

involved does raise food for thought. If the Secret Service should

have been aware of these individuals previously, why were they not? Did

lack of funds cause lack of complete protection or was the caliber of agent

at fault? Did the S.S. agents understand their obligation and if so, were

they fully trained to meet those responsibilities.

54214

DooId: 32277355

Page

28

---

## Page 29

APPENDIX

Prior to 11/22|63

subseguent to 1/22/63

otal #of cases

•=

FBI Cases Referred to USSS

3|65-12/63

16

75

10

20

25

-

30

35

-

40

45

50

NW 54214 DooId: 32277355 Page 29

---

## Page 30

FBI Cases Referred to Secret Service

March '65 - December '63

APPENDIX B

March April

May

June

July Aug.

Sept.

che case

case referrect following assassi sen

Nor.

DEd.

HH 54214

DocId

32277355

Page

30

---

## Page 31

.

NETONDIA C

Reasons for cases coming to the attention of the Secret Service originally:

In some instances, the fact that an individual was a right win.

extremist, black, Puerto Rican, etc. was incidental to the rea

son for the case coming to their attention in the first place.)

PUERTO RICANS:

27

(Case #

1 - 27)

BLACK MILITANTS:

7

(Case #28 - 34)

RIGHT WING:

(Case #40-52, 395-6, 411)

(Picketers in Dallas

#341-5)

LEFT WING:

(Case

# 328, 349, 356, 367,

400)

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARIES:

(Case

# 59, 60)

2

LETTER WRITERS: Majority addressed to White House, some S.S. or FBI 100

Threatening or abusive:

(Case # 35, 37, 61, 62, 69, 74, 80, 88, 91, 96, 99, 120, 123,

17. 3. 106.

127, 134, 140, 156, 159, 160, 168, 203, 215, 224, 229, 234,

236, 257, 261, 265, 272, 308,

330, 348, 383, 410)

Requests:

5

(Case # 53, 56,

154, 206, 246)

Includes anything from asking for job, money or visa to leave us.

Obscene:

(Case # 54, 77, 85, 108, 303, 310, 406)

Bizarre:

34

(Case

3, 371, 50, 6, a2

#36, 39, 72, 90, 112, 126, 128, 129, 133, 136, 145-8, 151,

153, 155, 165, 166, 198, 200-1, 208-9, 220, 239, 240, 274-5,

Friendly: 19

(Case #

38, 67, 78,

79, 82, 131, 161, 193, 250-1, 266, 270-1,

294, 307, 339, 373, 402, 413)

TELEGRAMS: Majority addressed to White House

(Case #

63, 89, 190, 301, 314, 322, 358, 363, 3971

PHONE CALLS: To White

House, Secret Service or FBI

Bizarre: 16

(Case #

55, 76, 83, 102, 158, 175, 189, 194, 196-7, 256, 269,

329,

362, 380,

Requests:

(Case

Threats:

73, 95, 167, 171, 267, 325, 3771

(Case #

92,

226, 241, 375, 378)

Complainst:

4

(Case

# 283, 284,

288, 326)

WHITE HOUSE VISITORS: 34

Majority have history of mental problems

(Case # 57, 64-6, 71, 81, 84, 86-7, 94, 97-8, 100-1, 107, 110-1, 114-6,

121, 132, 135, 138, 141-2, 144, 149, 162-4, 172, 258, 350)

HH 54214 DocId: 32277355

Page 31

---

## Page 32

ASSASSINATION RELATED:

16

(Case #58, 176-86, 390-3)

MENTAL, INSTABILITY: 14 Result of liaison because of subject's interest

in protectees

(Case #68, 75, 118-9, 204, 225, 227, 230, 232, 248, 277-8, 353, 405)

PENETRATED SECURITY:

6

At Fort Knox - Case #70

At Anacostia Naval Station - Case #130

At Kennedy's funeral - Case #187 and #188

At Joseph. Kennedy's residence - Case #286 and #287

At Fort Myer - Case #103

Visited:

Mrs. Kennedy's - Case

#214 and #300

Eisenhower's - Case #169

LBJ ranch - Case #276

VISITS TO THE SECRET SERVICE OFFICES: 9 (Generally mental cases)

(Case #93, 117, 122, 150, 218, 259, 304, 309, 389)

POSSIBLE VERBAL THREATS: 72 Majority originated from FBI or informants

(Case #104-6, 113, 124, 125, 137, 139, 143, 170, 173, 174, 191-2, 199,

202, 210, 213, 216, 219, 221-3, 228, 233, 237-8, 242-5,

247, 252-4,

260, 262, 273, 290-3, 295-9, 302, 312, 316-8, 320-1, 323, 327, 333,

336, 338, 346-1, 354, 361, 364, 372, 381, 384, 387-8, 394, 398-91

DEROGATORY STATEMENTS: 34

Result of liaison with agencies and informants

(Case #109, 195, 205, 207, 212, 235, 255, 263, 268, 279-82, 289,

305-6, 311, 315, 319, 334-5, 337, 340, 351-2, 355, 357, 359,

365-6, 368-70, 3861

THREATENED TITO, PLANNED TO PICKET WHITE HOUSE

(Case #152)

TREASURY VISITOR: Case #

157

MADE INQUIRY ABOUT PRESIDENT'S PRESENCE AT HOSPITAL: Case # 211

THREATS TO SOVIET EMBASSY: Case # 217

CLAIMED ASSOCIATION WITH OSWALD: Case #231

POSTCARD RE PRESERVING MAGAZINE WITH KLEIN'S AD: Case

# 249

MESSAGE FROM QUIJA BOARD TOLD FBI RE ASSASSIN: Case # 264

WROTE GOVERNOR OF COLORADO RE VIOLATION OF PROPERTY RIGHTS, POSSIBLE WH VISIT:

(Case # 285)

PICTURE OF LBJ WITH CANNON POINTED AT IT: Case # 313

APPLIED FOR ORDERLY POSITION RE JOSEPH KENNEDY: Case # 324

WARNING OF ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT IN GERMANY (anon) : Case # 382

INVOLVED IN FOREIGN ASSASSINATION PLOTS: Case # 331-2, 374, 401, 407-9

WHITE HOUSE ID: Case # 403-4

NW 54214 DocId: 32277355

Page 32

---

