# docid-32302069

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10280-10006

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-112098-209

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

TO:

DREW, WILLIAM MAYO JR.

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

DATE: 04/19/1963

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

SNFE, ACA, MIL OPERATIONS, PROPAGANDA ACT, CUBAN

EXILES, ARMS ACT, FINANCES, UNITY

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH

54463

DocId: 32302069

Page. 1

5

---

## Page 2

MM 105-6243

CONFIDENTIAL

ADMINISTRATIVE

To date, no information has been developed as

to the whereabouts of other boats of the SNFE in the Miami

SECRET

area, except the small speedboat on which GUTIERREZ MENOYO

was returned to Miami.

U. S. Customs will be contacted

and arrangements made to examine this boat.

During interview,

GUTIERREZ made mention of the fact that this boat had no name,

was not registered, and that he was unable to understand by

what right he had been seized by the Coast Guard in interna-

tional waters.

This is pointed

out as it may be difficult

to ascertain the origin of ownership of this boat.

SANFORD CLOsE, owner of the building in which the

SNIE office is located, has been contacted with regard to

feasibility of a trash cover on this office and the Bureau

will be advised of the outcome of this matter

A list of the long distance telephone calls charged

to the office is being obtained for review.

This report has been classified SECRET because it

contains information from CIA, so classified

INFORMANTS

и

Identity

MM T-1 is MM 639-S

Location

Instant report, pages 2,

(M T-2 18 CIA, Miami]tS1-1

MM T-3 is Lt. AARON ROGERS,

U. S.

Coast Guard Intelligence, Miami,

Fla. (by request)

esten out ter besies,

Miami, Fla. (by request)

105-6243-399

Instant report, pages

3, 5, 9

Instant report, page

C.*

COVER PAGE

CONFIDENTIAL-

54463 DooId: 32302069 Page 2

---

