# docid-32292937

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10210-10213

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2839-243

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

HOULIHAN, FREDERICK T.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE : 10/22/1964

PAGES:

67

SUBJECTS :

RAB, MISUR, TESUR, CONTACT, ASSOC, BUSS ACT, B/F INT,

TELCAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

02/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES 1A, 1B

v9.1

NW 45739. DocId: 32292937 Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

PH 92-441

LEADS (CONTID)

PITTSBURGH:

AT. GIBSONIA, PA.3

Will 1dentify JANES P. LA MALFA, 419 Hardt Road.

Subject was observed by an informant operating an

automobile, bearing Pennsylvania Registration 123 550, on

3/29/64, at Pittston,

Pa.,

which vehicle 1s registered to

JANES P. LA MALFA, 419 Hardt Road, Gibsonia, Pa.

AT NEW. KENSINGTON, PA.:

Will endeavor to Identify an Individual known as

"KELLY,

" who is in the dress business and who resides in

New Kensington.

During August 1964, "KELLY"

traveled to

Scranton, Pa., where he met with the subject.

рн 655-0,

on 8/28/64, advised that the subject told

him that "KEIIY" had Just returned from Florida, and the subject

and "GUV" GUARNIERI had been working together to get a loan for

"KELLY."

PHILADELPHIA:

AT HARRISBURG, PA.:.

Will identify the owners of the following motor vehicles:

QS7 405

846 648

428 67V

The first vehiele was observed at Jenkins Sportswear,

Pittston, Pa., on 8/13/64, and the other two vehicles were

observed at the same location on 8/20/64

-C-

COVER PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32292937

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-441

LEADS (CONTID)

PHILADELPHIA: (CONTID)

AT OLD FORGE, PA:

W111,

at the Old Forge Bank, determine what accounts

and loans the subject has there.

20

Will review checking account for information concerning

Income and other pertinent Information.

3. Will determine whether or not a check was Issued on

subject's personal account on or about 3/5/64 in the amount of

$338.31, payable to Central Ticket Agency, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

4•

Will also obtain detalls of any loans received by

the subject from this bank or being negotiated at the bank.

5.

Reportedly, subject applied for a loan in his own name

for construction of a new building in Pittston,

down, and then applied in the name of A. B. and S. Contracting.

but was turned

Company, and received the loan requested.

Will obtain complete

details concerning this loan, as

well as any other loans subject

may have there.

AT PHILADELPHLA, PA: 3

1. Will maintain contact with PH 614-C-TE.

Will maintain contact with the U.S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service concerning the status of subject's deporta-

tion order.

AT PITISTON, PA.:

Will maintain contact with the following:

PH 521-C

PH 526-C

PH: 655-6

PH 701-€

PH 663-PC

AT WYOMENG, PA.:

Will, at the First National Bank, determine If the subject

has any loans there and

the

status of such obligations.

- D

COVER PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32292937 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-441

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

The period of this report precedes

referenced report

because investigation included in current report was not

received

by the reporting agent until after referenced report was

submitted.

PH 655-C, on 7/10/64, advised that the subject told

JANE COLLINS that his contact at the Immigration Service told him

that it would help very much if they could take care of the

evidence which had been given by SUE NICHOLS at the Immigration

and Naturalization Service hearing recently in Philadelphia, Pa.

In order to discredit NICHOLS as a witness, subject said he had

been conducting investigation on her for two months, and obtained

considerable information concerning her activities.

PH 525-C, on 7/10/64, and PH 521-0, on 7/13/64, were

unable to furnish any pertinent information concerning the subject.

The New York Office advised that on 7/31/64, PCI VIOLET

DUNNE could furnish no pertinent information concerning the

subject. She has been contacted periodically at the Forrest

Hotel.

Contacts with her will be continued for any information

she can furnish concerning the subject.

Information furnished on 9/2/64 from records of the

New Jersey Bell Telephone Company,

Merchantville, N. J., was

Furnished by WALLACE HALTER, New Jersey Bell Telephone Company.

Information furnished from records of the Southern

Bell Telephone Company, Hollywood, Fla., on 8/20/64, was made

* 8/20 the

available by Miss DOROTHY WELZ,

Secretary, Southern Bell Telephone

Company.

The New York Office advised that a fisur at the Hotel

Forrest,

New York City, on 9/22/64, by Agents of the New York

Office,

failed to reflect any pertinent activity on the part of

the subject.

At that time, it was determined the subject was

staying alone in a suite of rooms, Number 1506; and discreet

Inquiry failed to

show that the management of the hotel was

aware of any other persons staying with

i the subject.

- E -

COVER PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32292937

Page 4

---

## Page 5

PH 92-441

ADNINISTRATIVE DATA (CONTID)

The New York Office advised that the fisur was rein-

stated the morning of 9/23/64.

Subject was observed to leave the

hotel alone at 10:15 a.m.; and after having breakfast at a nearby

cafeteria,

returned to the hotel.

Subjeet was not observed

leaving the hotel and no individuals,

who might be considered

pertinent to this investigation, were observed entering or leaving

the hotel.

The New York Office advised that the Hotel Forrest has

been known over the years to law enforcement agencies as a

favorite hangout for hoodlums, particularly those in the fight

rackets, pimps, and the 11ke.

Experience has shown that any

Inquiries by law enforcement agencies eventually got back to the

subjects investigated; and, therefore, utmost discretion 18

required in conducting fisurs and making inquiries.

The above Investigation was conducted by the New York

Office at the request of the Philadelphia Office after informa-

tion was received from PH 655-0 that the subject had told JANE

COLLINS that he expected to have a very important meeting in

New York City on 9/22/64. He did not say where the meeting was

caking, place or with whom he was meeting. Source advised or

5/22/64 that the subject attempted to make a telephone cal.

to BILL (LNU) at Room 1617 Sherman Hotel, Chicago, Ill.

In connection with the above, the Chicago Office

advised on 9/3/64 that FRANK MC HUGH,

Sherman House Hotel, caused the records to be checked to determine,

1f possible, the resident of Room 1617 on 6/22/64. MC HUGH

advised that records

are not kept by room and date, and that

without a last name, it would be almost impossible to determine

who was residing in that room on that date.

MC HUGH advised that cash records are kept on a daily

basis, and a review of these failed to disclose a cash payment

for that room for the date in question; and as a result, no

record could be located for the person or persons ataying in that

room on 6/22/64.

-F-

COVER PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32292937

Page

5

---

## Page 6

PH 92-441

INFORMANTS

PH T-1

PH T-2

PH T-3

PH T-4

PH T-5

PH T-6

PH T-7

PH T-8

PH T-9

PH T-10

PH T-11

PH T-12

PH T-13

PH T-14

PH T-15

PH 655-0-TE

Detective LEO MC CARTHY, Gambling

Squad, Buffalo, N. Y.,

Police

Department.

PH 663-PC

PH 655-C-TE

PH 655-C-TE

PH 655-C-TE

PH 655-C-TE

PCI

PH 526-0

EDWARD L.

BRAUNE,

New York

Telephone Company.

PH 521-C

RICHARD THOMAS, ATT

JOE DELANEY, Pittston, Pa.,

Police Department.

PCI

PCI WILLIAM STRUBECK

Several temporary informant symbols have been given to

PH 665-C-TE in order to further protect this informant.

-G

COVER PAGE

OTHER 4

NW 45739 DocId: 32292937 Page 6

---

