# docid-32296657

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10217-10433

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-107224-135

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-29-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE ::

DATE: 06/20/1963

• PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS:

MRR, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL, PRESS RELEASE,

COMMANDOS, LANDINGS, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC DID NOTE

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32296657

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

ii.!

8

DECLASSIFIRD

A."

AND

TELD OFFIORS

7924.

it- 25-15

NTAINED

ALL INSCR

13495 .56685UD/ISR

1гK)

21:581

GALSON

•ORMATION

KEP 2-5-98

GENT

- Trun

COMMS CATIO 18 SEOTON

JJR2 0 1963

TELETYPE

CLASSIFIED-ANDE

1/18/79

EXTENDEO BY 222

REASCH FOR EXTEI

FCH8, 11,0-2.4.2.

ISION (2) \

DATE OF REVIEW FOR

UECLASSIFICATION

40/20. /83

Me lason

/enter.

Belmos

Mr. Monr

Mr. Carper

bir.

Mr.

Mr.

Mi.

Mr.

"M:

Mr.

Ba!

Mr.

Tas

Tele. Room

Miss Kobnes

Miss Gandy

326

6-20-63

2-49

PM EST

MSB

'ATE INT

ATION CONTAIM

HEREIN I

DIRECTOR, FBI. / 105-10 7224/

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWA

FROM

SAC, MIAMI / 105-5147/ 4 PAGES

OTHERWIS

NITICS

AND FINED

SUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL, IS DASH CUBA.

ADVISED 3Y

THIS MORNING MIGUEL GARCIA,

STIP (S)

WHO WORKS FOR CUBAW &

REVOLUTIONARY

COUNCIL PAREN CRC PAREN IN PUBLIC RELATIONS MATTERS, FURNISHED

COPY OF NEWS RELEASE BEING ISSUED TODAY BY CRC, AS FOLLOWS. QUOTE

COMMANDOS OFSTHE CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL HAVE LANDED IN

DIFFERENT PARTS OF CUBA, CONTINUING THE ACTIONS WHICH WILL DEFINITELY

LEAD TO THE LIBERATION OF OUR COUNTRY. THE FIRST REPORTS SENT

BY OUR FORCES, REVEAL THAT THE LANDINGS WERE EFFECTED WITHOUT

ANY DIFFICULTY AND HAD THE UTMOST COOPERATION OF THE PEASANTS-IN®

THE SURROUNDING ZONES. THESE COMMANDOS, PERFECTLY ARMED, HAVE

ENTERED CUBAN TERRITORY. TOMORROW, AT ONE PM, THE GENERAL HEAD-

QUARTERS OF THESE FORCES VILL OFFER A RADIO TRANSMISSION, FROM

CUBA, TO THE EXILES,

IN THE FORTY METER BAND, SEVEN ZERO ONE EIGHT

KILOCYCLES. UNQUOTE.

+116

GARCIA EXPLAINED THAT CRC PREPARED

567/06-107334-135

70N51

5 35 LH

: 83

12 JUN 25 1963

END PAGE ONE

59L10 0G x Whale

6/ 2i/63

5 6 JUl

1052

MR. BELMONT FOR THE DIRECTOR

SO WENTAL

NW 54027 DooId: 32296657

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CON THENTIA

PAGE TWO

NEWSPAPER INQUIRY CONCERNING A NEW YORK NEWS MEDIA CABLEGRAM THIS

MORNING RE COMMANDOS LANDINGS IN CUBA. HE SAID THAT COMMANDOS

INVOLVED BELONGED TO A MEMBER ORGANIZATION OF CRC BUT HE WAS

UNABLE TO

, IDENTIfY SPECIFIC ORGANIZATION. STATED HE DID NOT KNOW

EXACT TIME, PLACE OR MOVEMENTS INVOLVED IN THE LANDINGS. STATED

HE DID NOT BELIEVE THIS OPERATION WAS BASED FROM ANY PLACE IN

U.S. AND DID NOT KNOW PLACE OF ORIGIN. LU)

THIS MORNING MM FOUR NINE TWO S, CUBAN EXILE WELL ACQUAINTED

WITH CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES AND WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE.-

INFO IN PAST; REPORTED THAT A UP CABLE DATED MIAMI JUNE TWENTY A

ENTITLED GENERAL WAR COMMUNICATION NO. ONE, SIGNED BY JOSE

fla

FERNANDEZ

BAD UE,

REPORTED ANNOUNCEMENI BY CRC OF LANDINGS IN CUBA,

cuta

IN FO

BEING SIMILAR TO ABOVE NEWS RELEASE. MM FOUR NINE TWO S

SAID THIS COMMUNIQUE REPORTEDLY WAS GIVEN TO UP BY JORGEVALANES 2a

YPUJOL, FORMER WRITER WITH PRENSA LIBRE, NOW ASSISTANT IN PUBLIC CUTE.

RELATIONS FOR CRE.

MM FOUR NINE TWO S SAID AT TEN AM MANUEL ANTONIO DE

VARONA 2IA

AND THREE OTHER REPRESENTATIVES OF CRC APPEARED ON MIAMI

TV AND PUBLICLY CONFIRMED THAT COMMANDOS OF CRC LANDED IN CUBA.

END PAGE TWO

CONFKATAL®

NW 54027 DooId: 32296657 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONFICAITIAL

PAGE THREE

zla

THIS MONIN EVENTING ARE PROTEI, ASSOCLATED WITH ERE

AND WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFO IN PAST, ADVISED. INSTANT

RECUPERAC ION REVOLUCIONARIA PAREN MRR PAREN, AND THAT FOUR GROUPS

WERE REPORTEDLY INVOLVED, ALL CONNECTED WITH CRC. (A)(U)

MM FOUR NINE TWO'S ADVISED JOSE ARIOLA IS BROTHER IN LAW

OF SERGIO

CARBO, REM ER OF ERC. APIOLA WAS WITH ANTONIO AACEO,

oba

PRESIDENT OF CRC, YESTERDAY WHEN THEY VISITED RADIO STATION WET,

MIAMI.

MM FOUR NINE TWO S SAID HAVANA RADIO HAD NOT MENTIONED

ALLEGED RAID AS OF ELEVEN AM TODAY CUTO

MRR IS MEMBER OF THE CRC, AN ANTI CASTRO UNITY ORGANIZATION.

JOSE A FERNANDEZ

BADUE IS REPRESENTATIVE ON CRC OF THE

MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANA, PAREN MDC PAREN.

RAFAEL CUIRE RECURRELL AND FERMILEITES, PROTECT, ZIN

OFFICIALS IN MEE ANI MIMSERS OF CRE, ADVISER ENEMOS, WELL GI

KNOWN IN CUBAN UNDERGROUND

AS CAMPIOS, FORMERLY HEADED AN TENAN

UNDERGROUND GROUP UNDER COMMAND OF THORNDYKE, WELL KNOWN CUBAN

UNDERGROUND LEADER, NOW DECEASED.

END PAGE THREE

3

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 54027 DooId: 32296657 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DECLASSIFIE

sideare

BURGAD OF RUMS:

PRETERT L

SCUMON

JUN2 0 1963

'AL: INFORWATION CONTAIMAL

HERLIN IS UNCLASSIFIN

EXCEPI WEIERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

CONTIBENTIAL

es

1/18/19

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDED BY 333 Dai ghe

REASON FOR EX

(2)

FCIM, 11, 1-2.4.2,

DATE OF REVIEW FOR

DECLASSIFICATION 10/20/83

Mr.

Tolson

Mr.

Balmont

Mr.

Mohr

Mr. Casper

Mr.

Calaban

Mr.

Coursd

Mr

Mr

Mr.

ir.

Mr.

Sortran

Mr.

Tarel

HiT.

Tole.

Moot

Miss Iloimes

Miss Gendy.

URGENT

TO

6-20-63

2-49

PM

EST

MSB

DIRECTOR, FBI / 105-10 7224/

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEU

DATE 3-4-95 BY 26815180

(IPK

SAC, MIAMI / 105-5147/ 4 PAGES

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL, IS DASH CUBA.

spnra

THIS MORNING MIGUEL GARCIA, WHO WORKS FOR CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY

COUNCIL PAREN CRC PAREN IN PUBLIC RELATIONS MATTERS, FURNISHED

COPY OF NEWS RELEASE BEING ISSUED TODAY BY CRC, AS FOLLOWS. QUOTE

COMMANDOS OF THE CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL HAVE LANDED IN

DIFFERENT PARIS OF CUBA, CONTINUING THE ACTIONS WHICH WILL DETINITELY

LEAD TO THE LIBERATION OF OUR COUNTRY: THE FIRST REPORTS SENT

BY OUR FORCES, REVEAL THAT THE LANDINGS WERE EFFECTED WITHOUT

ANY DIFFICULTY AND HAD THE UTMOST COOPERATION OF THE PEASANTS IN

THE SURROUNDING ZONES. THESE COMMANDOS, PERFECTLY ARMED, HAVE

ENTERED CUBAN TERRITORY.

TOMORROW, AT ONE PH; THE GENERAL IRAD-

QUARTERS OF THESE FORCES WILL OFFER A RADIO TRANQMISSION FROM

CUBA, TO THE EXILES, IN THE FORTY METER BAND, SEVEN ZERO ONE CIGHT

KILOCYCLES. UNQUOTE. (ENU)

DENIAL

CARCIA EXPLAINED THAT CRC PREPARED THIS PELEASE FOLLOWING (SP/4)

END PAGE ONE

dissenting.

Sur Dienne

Mire cin

+ Bot Maza

site

NW 54027 DooId: 32296657 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CON

PACE TWO

NEWSPAPER INQUIRY CONCERNING A NEW YORK NEWS MEDIA CABLEGRAM THIS

MORNING RE COMMANDOS LANDINGS IN CUBA* HE SAID THAT COMMANDOS

INVOLVED BELONCED TO A MEMBER ORGANIZATION OF CRC BUT HE WAS

UNABLE TO

IDENTIFY SPECIFIC. ORGANIZATION. STATED KE DID

NOT KNOW

EXACT TIME, PLACE OR MOVEMENTS INVOLVED IN THE LANDINGS, STATED

HE DID NOT BELIEVE THIS OPERATION WAS BASED FROM ANY PLACE IN

U.S. AND DID NOT KNOW PLACE OF ORIGIN

THIS MORNING MM FOUR NINE TWO Sy CUBAN EXILE WELL ACQUAINTED

WITH CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES AND WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE.-

INFO IN PAST, REPORTED THAT A UP CABLE DATED MIAMI JUNE TWENTY *

ENTITLED GENERAL WAR COMMUNICATION NO. ONE, SIGNED BY JOSE

FERNANDEZ BADUE, REPORTED ANNOUNGEMENT BY CRE OF LANDINGS IN CUBA,

INTO BEING SIMILAR TO ABOVE NEWS RELEASE,

MM FOUR NINE TWO S

SAID THIS COMMUNIQUE REPORTEDLY WAS GIVEN TO UP BY JORGE LLANES

PUJOL, FORMER WRITER WITH PRENSA LIBRE, NOW ASSISTANT IN PUBLIC

RELATIONS FOR CRC

MM FOUR NINE TWO S SAID AT TEN AM MANUEL ANTONIO DE VARONA

AND: THREE OTHER REPRESENTATIVES OF CRC APPEARED ON MIAMI

TV AND PUBLICLY CONFIRMED THAT COMMANDOS OF CRC LANDED IN CUBA.

END PAGE TWO

NW 54027 DooId: 32296657 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CON

AlL

PAGE THREE

THIS MORNING JUVENTINO BAEZ, PROTECT, ASSOCIATED WITH CRO

AND WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFO IN PAST, ADVISED INSTANT

COMMANDO ACTION WAS LED BY JOSE ARIOLA OF THE MOVIMIENTO

RECUPERAC ION REVOLUCIONARIA PAREN MRR PAREN; AND THAT FOUR GROUPS

VERE REPORTEDLY INVOLVED, ALL CONNECTED WITH CRC. E(U)

MM FOUR NINE TWO S ADVISED JOSE ARIOLA IS BROTHER IN LAW

OF SERGIO CARBO, MEMBER OF CRC• ARIOLA WAS WITH ANTONIO MACEO,

PRESIDENT OF CRC, YESTERDAY WHEN THEY VISITED RADIO STATION WHET,

MIAMI

MM FOUR NINE TWO S SAID HAVANA RADIO HAD NOT MENTIONED

ALLEGED RAID AS OF ELEVEN AM TODAY*

MRR IS MEMBER OF THE CRC, AN ANTI CASTRO UNITY ORGANIZATION

JOSE A• TERNANDEZ BADUE IS REPRESENTATIVE ON CRC OF THE =

MOVINIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANA, PAREN MEC PAREN

RAFAEL AGUIRRE RECURRELL AND FERMIN FLEITES, PROTECT,

OFFICIALS IN MEC AND MEMBERS OF CRC, ADVISED ENU CAMPOS, WELL

KNOWN IN CUBAN UNDERGROUND AS CAMPITOS, FORMERLY HEADED AN

NDERGROUND GROUP UNDER COMMAND OF THORNDYKE, WELL KNOWN GUBAN

UNDERGROUND LEADER, NOW DECEASED. (EY)

END PAGE THREE

NW 54027 DooId: 32296657 Page 7

---

