# docid-32390682

## Page 1

Date: 02/09/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:

104-10435-10001

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

I44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case# :NW 53320 Date:

06-26-2017

AGENCY

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE : MEMO NO. 9: GARRISON AND THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

: 06/05/1968

PAGES: 7

SUBJECTS : GARRISON

JFK ASSASSINATION

BECKHAM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST

REVIEW

06/25/04

COMMENTS

: JEK-RH02 : F050-1: 20040331-1069893

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10435-10001

SECRET

GHOUr 1

Excluded tron unemath

dann rading aild

declassincaien

HH 53320

DocId: 32390682 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

BElLI was caportedly lavolied lo Sill: 8r0g

STALlO SIES MOTIlS GLOWITZ IN 1758. 2L0 ITZ WI9 1

EUE METOÉ CORLACE DI LiCKY LUCIANO.

x 3. Donald Loaa BONNING (201-813792

7.

BEINING do the Lalla Amorican Editor of tho

wila-il Marald.

He wao granted a PCSA os 21 Augaos 1707

and a CiSA on 14 Noveraber 1967. He l& AMCARBON-3.

is.

BOANITO JODOred he was Contactod on 1$ March 1968

i, & BAnstOn S11TE who claimod to ho invealigaling Rolando

HASTEARER SOF JAA GARRISON.

A s.0

COlONEl L. RODOrE CASTORR

COl. CASTORR allegedly rel with Jack RUBY,

POseIt! ERMIN, ond othera da Dallas la 1942 1s jan a Cubas

= angling operation. CASTOAR Is also Allegedly as sonociate

of General Edata A. TALKER. Jeschira JOESTEN and othora

nave broadly hinted chas CASTORk lo associated wies cin.

Thoro do no record al agency assoctasion sita

CASTORR. As FUl seport of 13 larch 1363 soported that

CASTORR had lunch Kith VIkROT IVanOvIeS MIRONOY (201-73195).

a NGB alílesr 28 the fortet Erubaasy da Washington.

3. Iloyd I. COBB I

As Predident of the Hew Orleana Trade Contes,

:C0B8 was, according lo Blot or Pelluice, she "boss" ol Clay EllAH.

3. 160BD mas granted a CSC un 9 October 1959 108 use

na a privato affarseye panel los the OGG. COBB use granted a

Po us l9 June 1967 to posmde contact and assese: nant la connectlon

t:1th blo 19e on a cleared ailornaya parol lor the dOC.

XA. Mlichnel Charles CONLEY

Micharl Charlen CONLEY le an apparent US Gorerament

b. 1A IS. inclad C. CONLET apulled ios Agency

Identity sich a, abore, has nutter a

SEBRET

HH: 53320

DocId: 32390682 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SE

GRET

Ti Alleat. DULLE:S

2. GARRISON aDbDDDaDd 188, DULLES on

16 Frirlary +969+0+29835284997939

8. 0a T MIICh 1963 JUGgO LatION BRANLE 1uEUEd

& second subpacca fos tiT. DULLES.

C. CA 22:104 1963 GARRISON'e offce ACcused ha

dustice lepartmons ol refusiag to coojorato in tuo subr0enalng

vÍ MI. DULLES a0 a Mitreso.

S. Eleslam CORNICKI |(206-193323)

a. GORNICKllo a Polish jouranilet who was tha sullor

oi a long erticlo on the CARAISON invessigalles la "Pelliyia"

No. l(066), Tear MU Waraco, 6 Jansary 1962.

a GORMICHI Nas tho subject of an unsucceseiul

recrulinen atomgt lo 1955 ohllo lo mas a coscespondent at

Eno ON.

1%. Maroball Valeon HOUTS (201-833160)

KOUTS, 1 OFMOS FUlAgerE, L3 the Author of an

ariiclo in Medienl Economies & March 1968 cilich colllcirod

the autagay ol Precldent lennedy.

HOUIS.carved with O95 in Barra during Worlé

Viat Il Bud riso layrlied la de Ildappropriation of govrairent

HOUTE ungacceastully apolled dos Agency ein laymens

iroacris.

10 12020]

I0o. Guy Parsac JOHNSON 1(201-207973)

JOHNSON was an casty defento counoel lor

A POA mãe sequented la disy 1954 for JOiINSON

dO GE IDEd On QuaiN as A COntraCe AgeRt lor DUKODIAl feradndos

vage allalian). Tho regucas lor le POA mao later cancellad.

a. MicorilaS tO Plot or POlItiCa KLEIN DaS 25

(SESHET

HH 53320

DocId:32390682 Page. 3

---

## Page 4

SEGRE

Incorporalor of Esleada o1 Democrallo Guba, along altis

Gy BANISTER, Villar DALLELL, and GradY C. DURHAM.

KEII dOrICE CONTACE MILL DURHAM, BANITER, ANd ETERCO

oi ienneralle Cuba. Ho admitted assoclution all MALiELL to

sEt u, tho itoo Voico of Latia Anerica. KELIN BOCHA tO bo

a personal lilond of Jia GARRisON.

•. KLEEI apolled los agency eployment in 1065

but accupted a job mith the US Nary General Counaal'o Clisee.

12. Robert creasen LEE 1

LEE was an Assisions Dletilet Altorney dur Jdin

GARRISON iro: 1 January 1957 to 1 Jesuary 1955.

• LEl: apolod for egoncy enculoyment on 5 January 1919.

MARTIN Was 2a Abolatant District Allosagg lor

JI GARRISON until December 196%.

DO MARTIN FAD a DES contact and source da 146% and

inas then lo maa broctos of Internatlocal Relations and merle

Irade of International Rausu in Now Orlenes.

XIA, BElMan ORIN 1201-1021298

=.

MORIN do the author of Aesadonaldog, a pro-barren

HORIN prodded infornation lO CES Go his lutCrinent

ho Indo Chira during the nardy part of Viorld War II.

Caiilltre for a Exod Asta do 1951 and the Job of Prcsiders ol

[TE IL.LAP (ABla Foundation) $5 1753.

1S. DI. ANOR@CISNER 8201-838477%

Ful contidential informant reported on 2 A Pril 19as

tat JI. GARAION bElOVOD DE. OCHSNER waS a princial

injolied to the coasiracy to assacsinate Pressdent denasdy.

HH: 53320

DocId: 32390682 Page 4

---

## Page 5

C

SEGRET

Fia, que. 1193.1

ofti

Arearcan firen.

Sor, di

1. D:. OCISNEA IO DITOCtOr Of liO OchasI

Fonndatlon, head of tha Oebonar Cliele, and Precidout of the

Infor antion Concil al Arnesica. 1013 + 10-18-1911018 046907.

c.JDF. OCISNER Wag of contact interest In Derober

1947 and Novembos 1848. Ila hao beon a clesred aparce since

13 may d93a.

Tha lass offlesal contaca rith dI. OCHSNER

IaGhally OCCurICO ON & JAJ02JY 1702 and Tith tha Ocrenat

(Clinic on d Novembar 19630

*iG. MODOr PEARIS

Robers PERAIN allagedly met tits Jach R0BY.

clo lo Aubirl GASTOda, And Cinorg 1n Dallas 1 191.

sé belos o Chi gun-runnes la Spala and ta Caba.

D. A lado 1ad MoDere Polloch FElAIN illed a personal

batory statemert ulth OIS In January 1944. Ileta la no

Indeallon ho ever carved tish 055 ar Das latar connaclod Till

the Agency.

17. Benjama cONNENDERO

105% LuNE sald on tho achaontedge tent pago oi

"I amn deeply inceated ta Donjanila

CONNENBERG, JI. Those nurerous ard levaluable Baggestione

bare found pela say into drla volare."

D. /Benjarin SCNNENBERO NaS Erantd a CLA on

29 JuIre 1'357 105 NIS DadOS FIOjEC SRENCHANT.

tas revalidated for continuod 339 0n 2a July 1955.

As April 1957 Dura ald BradotIcos royare listed

SONNENBIRG as a direcios of the gabllabing dier oi lenty

Holt and Corsary, Isco, 393 Madiaos Avo.. Nes Tori Cles.

Rush To Jadseinent nas pebllahed by folt, Ricebart and Villeon

•Inc. 333 Maditon dra., estonestly the tamo company.

de Jás October 1951 FRI TOpOIl Bald that 1n 1931 Allres

X. SIIIN earazied $3090 An a babi accou 10 paraniso s

bEn lUan iradO tO SONNENSENC.

SECRET

HH 53320

DocId: 32390682 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRE

..

Tiese do so Indication that SONNENBERG ever

asad the darn "jealor" end la la nos keova yes li ha has a son

18. Mis. and MiD. Edgar BlOON STERN 10 201-170531)1

Jach ROGERS, the connoiltise coussel for too Joins

legiolative Committoo on Un-American Artivitses los the Stato

ol Lnilohana, rogered to 140 DOS on 1 June 1967, tuat

GARRISON had been secelving corributlona and ronotery

aupport fzoin MirD. Edgar B. STIRA.

b. Airo. Edgar B. GIERN In the former 50ith

ROSENT ALl add the domes Elaor-In-law of AllrodR. UTERS.

Claz SiAl absendod a party elven by "zn old

iriend". Felth ETERN, epparently In Octebar 1967.

1. Legor 3. STERN uns grasted a covert clanrance

In January 1933 for use 80 a donor la Projee! LPhOIN.

This

clastanes vas cascelled 1a Septamber 1956.

/Pi:11o ¡laurica STERN, an of the abore montiorod

Was Gianted s ladson clearance in March 186l when to

ãO the Lopuly Abbistari ReCItary of StRE fOr PubliC Mileiro.

PUT ETEEN was alao rained so ons of a "board of advisors"

tO MUDOIE HUMPIRE X 1a 1901.

м!".

MOnrOE SULLIVAN

SULLIVAN chalmed in be mith Ciny Elial An

¿aa Franciaco all day 22 Itovober 1363.

SULLIVAN was granted a ChA on l0 Decranber

196.280 perCUle atllisailoa Bador PROjeCt CKENCHANT...

20.

TAila: Classas WOOD (201-53-2324

A BIN FOOD, using the aamO Bll BOXiLY, 13

1='allgzIloS CLA 27d liS DeralOnS for JiM GARRISON.

He Bill H00D 10 Dollored to se Sdentical diet Willa

¿laria MosD, a forinee atall canloyeo ol delo Aguacy,

ISEORET

HH 53320

DocId: 32390682 Page. 6

---

## Page 7

/ SECRET

c.

William Clarons WOOD, born 17 Asguak 1920,

wag aparovEd tuI OSS duty la Deceniber 1944, bul tao nur

millized, On 13 DECEIDOS 19S0 NOCD taS Grasted a CEC for

unlanton AN A Stall Agers Dill Projocs TPROGUS. He sullerod

A nervous breakdown in March 1952. Ho was auctined to OTI

an In AnGErUCIOn (CS-1l) la lay 1052. Ho reclyaed 27 January

1253, astor lida realgeeton had been requested, bacause of

alcolinlisas. Sibile under tho loduenco dd codiar acatoriol durlas

A ructical oneration in July 1953 WOOD mada statementa sharing

Extrane antagonior toward the Agency. Tio FaIreported in

A-ril 1957 that WODD bad silosed assistance to the Nationalist

ChineDe Isolligance Sorded. DES regnestod clearanco to uge

B00D la Febraary 1957 bus tropped the request altes to Est

resorted that be was drissing bearily grata.

SEGRET

A HH

53320 DocId: 32390682 Page 7

---

