# docid-32289888

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System -

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10202-10164

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-604

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

08/14/1962

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

GAL, ACT, ASSOC, INFT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45679

DocId: 32289888

220

Page 1

---

## Page 2

0

1/A4p

FEDERAL BUREAU COF INVEST ICATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT COF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG1 51962

TELETYPE

Ter. Seimont

Vir.

Jir.

Cellat.-

Nir.

Corng!

Mr. Escas

Mr. Veras

Mi. Rosen

Mr. Cuiliven_

Mr.

Pavel

"ir. Tr.Her.

Tele. Room...

Migg Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

DE FERRED

8-14-62

'11-39

PM

LLK

TO DIRECTOR, FBI /92-31821

FROM SAC, CHICAGO

192-373/

GUS

ALEX, AKA. AR. • DAILY SUMMARY.

Me.

GEORGE N. SEELT, PCI, ADVISED THAT ÄLEX DINED AT THE FRENCH ROOM

• OTHER 4

PEL OF THE HARTFORD PLAZA RESTAURANT ON AUGUST TWELVE LAST IN THE COMPANY

OF HIS CLOSE ASSOCIATE, EDWARD VOGEL, AND HIS PARAMOUR, SUZANNE

FUEGER, AND VOGEL-S PARAMOUR, PEGGY STRAK. SEELT STATED THE

RESERVATIONS WERE MADE IN THE NAME OF

DOCTOR BROWN AND THAT THE RESERVATIONS WERE TAKEN BY JÜLES RIESER,

CONTACT FOR ALEX, AT THE HARTFORD PLAZA RESTAURANT.

SEELT STATED THAT ALEX DID NOT OCCUPY HIS USUAL BOOTH AT THE

RESTAURANT AND SINCE HIS PREFERRED WAITER,

PCI, IS NO

LONGER EMPLOYED AT THE HARTFORD PLAZA RESTAURANT, PIERRE SCHMIED

WAITED ON ALEX- GROUP•

SEELT SAID THAT SCHMIED INFORMED HIM THAT ALEX HAD REQUESTED

SCHMIED TO COOK FOR HIM AT HIS RESIDENCE SOME SUNDAY IN THE

FUTURE, BUT SCHMIED DID NOT GIVE ALEX ANY POSITIVE ANSWER TO DATE.

SEELT STATED THAT HE CONSIDERED SCHMIED ENTIRELY TRUSTUOR AND KOUT

THAT HE DISLIKES ALEX AND PERSONS OF ALEX- CALIBER.

O AUGRMED AND DANGEROUS. WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES. AUG 15 1962

- NO.196315 7731

RE6-28

WA

12-43 AM OK FBI WA NH

•ce

Staffeld.

EX-116

NW 45679 DocId: 32289888 Page 2

---

