# docid-32565123

## Page 1

PH 92-441

Will maintain contact with

Forest Hotel concerning activity of subject and associates

at this hotel.

Manager,

who stay

Will identify subscriber to JU 6-9192.

This number

called 5/2/61 using credit card of JANE COLLINS, a close associate

of subject.

New York will note lead #9 set forth for New York

on cover page F, of Philadelphia report of SA FREDERICK T. HOULIHAN

dated 3/10/61:

No reply concerning this has been received by the

Philadelphia Office. It 1s requested that this be covered and

reported.

NEWARK:

OTHER 4

AT HAMMONTON, N.J.

Will at Penya's Garage, White Horse Pike attempt to

identify THOMAS MORELLI, 214 Ingham Avenue, Trenton, N.J.,.

who is

apparently fictitious.

A 1953 Ford truck serial 19371 was purchased

by him during 1959 from this garage and titled to him on 3/3/59.

WASHINGTON FIELD:

AT WASHINGTON, D. C.

In U. S. District Court will follow and report on subject's

case presently pending there.

PHILADELPHIA:

AT ARCHBALD AND/OR CARBONDALE, PA.

1. Will attempt to verify reportof ATTD informant that

New York members of national gambling syndicate arrived in Archbald

or Carbondale to take over contacts being made now by subject.

2.

Consider checking multiple telephone Installations

made during past three months as possibly connected with such an

activity.

- B -

COVER 'PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32565123 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PH 92-441

AT PITTSTON, PA.

"1:

Will maintain contact with the following for information

concerning subject:

PH 521-C

PH 526-C

Sgt. JOSEPH DELANEY, Pittston Police Department

PCI WILLIAM STRUBECK

ORLANDO MENCHI, former PCI

Will determine details of sale of Flatiron Building

owned by subject to Redevelopment Authority.

3." Will determine status of Club 82, and if liquor

license for club has been transferred to a new location.

4. Will determine status of Jenkins Sportswear Company,

North Main Street.

AT QUAKERTOWN, PA.

that his mother an

sister live on the first floor below the apartment of ALBERTA STOCKER,

girl friend of subject. His mother and sister are able to hear

conversation in the STOCKER apartment, and it appears likely they

may have discussed what they heard with him.

AT SCRANTON, PA.

1.

Will attempt to identify JIM PERRY; he 1s probably

connected in some way with subject and/or JANE COLLINS.

• He callec

one Mrs. BARBARA BENIGLIA, New York City, and is believed to have

used credit card of JANE COLLINS to make

the call.

2. Will determine identity of the person or persons

occupying the third floor apartment at 622 Jefferson Avenue, where

telephone DI 3-4710,

and DI 3-7287 are located. Both are listed

to JOAN LANGONE, believed to be fictitious.

-D -

COVER PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32565123 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-441

Will determine 1f: Tri-City Textile Company has

any accounts at the Northeastern National Bank, or any other

Scranton banks. If any accounts are located, will monitor accounts

very closely for evidence of income paid to subject.

4. Will follow prosecutive action in Lackawanna County

Court of SAMUEL DE BELLA and his associates.

5. Will consider advisability of interviewing DAVE

SCIANDRA at Lackawanna County Jail. He has in past been a friend

of subject, and is reported to have done some "dirty work" for

subject.

He has been reported, to have been talking to police

concerning criminal activity in Pittston, Pa.

6. Will maintain contact with the following:

PCI

PCI

PCI

PCI

PCI

OTHER 4

PH 599-C

PH 577-C

AT WILKES-BARRE, PA.

1. Will follow prosecutive action in Luzerne County

Courts of SAMUEL DE BELLA and MODESTO LOQUASTO.

2. Will maintain contact with SAUL GOODMAN, ATTD.

INFORMANTS

PH T-1

PH T-2

PH T-3

PH T-4

PH T-5

PH T-6

HARRY COLLINS,

Business Manager,

New England Phone Company,

Springfield, Mass. (by request)

Mr. E. L. HARTT, Manager, Atlantic City, N.J., Office,

New Jersey Bell Telephone Company (by request)

EDWARD L. BRAUNE, Legal Department, New York Telephone

Company, New York,

N.Y.

(by request)

Mr. B. ALEXANDER, Bell Telephone Company, Harrisburg,

(by request)

MiSs WINIFRED LANGAN, Bell Telephone Company, Hazleton,

Pa.

(by request)

_E-

COVER PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32565123 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-441

PH T-7

PH T-8

PH T-9

PH T-10

PH T-11

PH T-12

PH T-13

PH: T-14

PH T-15

PH T-16

PH T-17

PH T-18

PH T-19

MIss BESSIE HENNINGS, Bell Telephone Company, Doylestown,

Pa. (by request)

MISS LEILA PATTON, Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania,

Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

(by request)

CS-WF 28

ORLANDO MENCHI, former PCI (by request)

PH 526-C

PH 521-C

Sgt. JOSEPH DELANEY, Pittston Police Department (by request)

PCI

PCI

OTHER 4

WILLIAM STRUBECK, PCI

Mrs. JOHN COOK, 8 George Street, Pittston, Pa. (by request)

Mr. S. KLUGER,

"Cashier, First National Bank; Wyoming,

Pa. (by request)

Attorney ROBERT J. HOURIGAN, Miners Bank Building,

Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

(by request)

-F+

COVER PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32565123 Page 4

---

