# docid-32295460

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10215-10236

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-432

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/11/1963

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LCN, THP, LIST, MAFIA, ASSOC, RES, BKG, CRIMINAL ACT,

RACK AND SUBV

, DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

• 19.1

DocId: 32295460

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104

UNITED STATES

•IV "RNMENT

Memoranuum

TO

IRECTOR, FBI (02-5054)

DATE: 3/11/63

FROM

SUBJECT:

LA COSA NOSTRA

CIP

He Bureau airtel to SAC, Albany.

"Criminal Intelligence Program.

3/26/63, captioned

Inclosed herewith to the Bureau

is copy of Tampa

Office Memorandum dated 9/3/63, which was designed according

to instructions in referenced airtel, to broaden our under-

Nostra and to undertake

inquiries under the

Anti-Racketeering classifications.

JACE cases are being opened on individuals listed on

page eight ci enclosed Memorandum, in order to fully develor

be nature and extent of their alleged criminal activities as

individuals, as well as their relations to any organized group.

"_ Bureat: (Enc. 1)

2. - Tampa

(1 - 92-29 Sub 1)

SJI: jn

(4)

REE+ 92-6054-45304

SE DEP 187565

maxia.

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32295460

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

TP 92-218

SCAGLIONE, TONY, Tampa, Florida

SUMIO, JAMES, 3215 12th Street, Tampa (This is LUMIA) (Deceased)

URGA, JOSEPH, Indian Rocks Beach, Florida (Deceased of very

recent date)

VIGLICIA, JOSEPH, Tampa, Florida

ZUMMO, THOMAS, 915 Tampa Street, Tampa

On May 5,

1959, TP T_

_(PAUL ANTINORI, former

TP 22-C) advised SA LABADIE relative to the above as follows:

ANGELO AGLIANO, 1711 Kathleen Street, Tampa, operates figh

markets, and never was member of Mafia, nor in small clique

of allen smugglers, bootleggers, gamblers, or narcotic violators.

FRANK AGLIANO, 2207 North Albany, Tampa; PROVIDENCE AGLIANO.

1914 5th Avenue, Tampa; and SALVATORE AGLIANO, 1921 East Broad-

way, Tampa, were not members of Mafia.

EUGENE ANZALONE, 2930 22nd Street, Tampa, was never member but

used to work for

the City of Tampa under

former Mayors CHAUNCEY

and HIXON and used to think he had political influence.

FRANK DIECIDUE and his brothers, according to this

source, are

members of the Mafia.

SALVATORE FERRILITA.

Source does not know such persons, but is

of opinion this should be FERLITA family, but in

such case,

FERLITA family never was in the old Mafia group:

FIGUROTO, "the entire family." Source did not know such a

family and of opinion it should be JOSEPH FICCAROTTA family,

who in the early 1900-1920 stages in Tampa was definitely a

part of the Italian Mafia group. However, JOSEPH FICCAROTTA waS

hanged in West Tampa about 1920 and for the past twenty years

his family is not Mafia type.

JOSEPH GAGLIANO, 3128 Cypress Street.

Source reported has known

this man well for many years and man was never in any Mafia

group.

ANTHONY, JOHN, JOSEPH, and SAM GIGLIO.

Source related this

family had belonged to the Mafia and their father,

, PHILIP

GIGLIO, did belong to the group; however PHILIP became a

carpenter and contractor and did not follow actions after the

early 1920's.

known as "Fifi" and resides about the 900 block Columbus

Tampa.

Source BaLd PRILIP GIGLID lE still ilyinE Drive,

=3-

DocId: 32295460 Page 3

---

## Page 4

released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

•*.

TP. 92-218

A highly confidential

source, former TP. 22-C,

has advised in 1952 he believed the following were members

of the Mafia:

The TRAFFICANTE'S

A. PRIMO LAZZARA

LOUIS LA BARBERA

RUDOLPH "FIFI" GIGLIA

JOE VACCARO

JOE PROVENSANO

NICK SCAGLIONE

SALVATORE PULLARA

JOE "NINO" LE COSE

The DIECIDUE'S

SALVATORE "RED" ITALIANO

FRANK ZAMBITO

SAM GLORIOSO

"GUS" FRISCIA (Deceased)

PHILIP LO CICERO

JOE CICCARELLO

JOE MISTRETTA

Reference is now made to Bureau Airtel 8/26/63

entitled"Criminal Intelligence Program"

, wherein the Bureau

points out:

"It is readily apparent that we undertake

inquiries to identify all members of LA COSA NOSTRA, and there-

after clearly establish their position and contribution to the

organization.

We have already undertaken a substantial step

in this direction in an all out effort to develop additional

sources and informants, which will be of assistance in this

regard."

Whenever an allegation is received or information is

developed that an individual is a member of LA COSA NOSTRA, an

appropriate Anti-Racketeering investigation must be promptly

initiated.

The Bureau further notes that some of the individuals

In the organization will not require continuous, all-out investi-

gation for.

an extended period, and suggests the ones of lesser

prominence

- after their background and current activities have

been verified and reported, such cases may be placed in a pending

inactive status for a period of six months, after which time

it would be re-opened for the purpose of re-establishing his

current aetivities and reporting the information accumulated

-7.-

DocId: 32295460 Page 4

---

