# docid-32323802

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/15/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90020-10062

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 100-441782-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO:

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/22/1975

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

[Restricted]

CITIZENS COMMITTEE OF INQUIR Y

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

4

Redact

11/13/1997

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

NN 52333 DocId:32323802 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

SECRED

ка i

CENTER

CIFIS

1 - Mr. Hetherington

October 22, 1975

_3)

D2. NATIONAL SACURITY STUDIES;

IS COMMITIDE OF INQUIRY

Reference is slide to your communication

dated September 29, 1975, Your reference 75v10-15-215,

requesting information on captioned individual. 9)

the central files of

Based on information and/or investigation

this Buroau reveal the Center for

National Security Studies is reported to bo a private,

tax exenpt research organization locateù in Washington, D.C.

(100-483753)

The Citizon's Comittee of Inquiry is also

private organization locate? in Washington,

one Mark inne being a principal officer

D. C., with

and reported to

be an individual who attempts to capitalize on sensational

events.

(100-441782-2)

A..0s. Dis. -On

Dep. AD Ado.

Dep. AD Inv

Asst, Dir.:

Admin. -==

Ching. Syrt.

Ext. Afiais:

Files 2. Com.

G..n. lav.

Irent.

Ins puction

trell.

Labstrory

Plun. E Evoi

Spec, inn.

moration concernin

and no information identifiable with

ur does contain no atonal port neat e

n 3

(5)

AUD TFORMATOS CONTAINED

ADARIM IS VNICRASSIRIND EXCEER

4/3/97

HERE SHONN OCHERRISE,

GLASSIFED BY 5408:548/uede

RSASC

(B,e, D;

DSOLASSIFY ON:

5.60

at leno

Original and lt

AEM: jIe (5)!

• Liaison office)(s)

TS:

NOTE:

Intelligence Division.

Matter coordinated with Special Agent I. C. Dorch,

Delivered

-122.175

to washington representative for RcMpJS)

SCHING

- 62-35717

EXEMPTION CATA

..: 1:002

AUXOMATICALIY

CLA.

Data contained heroin is being

FIED ON

furnished for your information.

If nocessary it may be dissemin

nated for official purposos to

other agendios in your govermonte

SECRET

-57NOV 171905)

TELETYPE UNIT!

SECRET

NW 52333 DocId: 32323802 Page 2

(9

OTHER 4

ORIGINAL FILED IN

UNRECORDED. COPA

---

## Page 3

The

• RO

Liaison Office

2450 M

ssachusetts Ave. N.W.

Washington, 5518-3029903

75WLO-1S-215

OTRE

UR NO NO

29 September 1975

SECRET

To:

The Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

From:

Inspector H.W. Brandes

RCMP Liaison Officer

Re :

(Jean Jacques MARMONT

Born 7 October 1943

Ontario, Canada

As this subject has come to the attention of the

Security Service, we would appreciate a check of your

records for any traces of him or the following organiza-

tions to which he claims to belong.

Center for National Security Studies

122 Maryland Ave. N.E.

Washington, D.C.

"Ctizen's Conmittee of Inquiry

103 Second Street N.E.

FBI Ine

CLASH 120 BY cussade

REASON: 15 BEDS

DECLASSIFY ON:

Washington, D.C.

100-441782-

NOT RECORDED

NOV 11 1975

3

OC

ORIGINAL FILED IN

This document is the property of

the Govemment of

Can-de. It is povided

on conditien

that it is for use solely

by the

intelligance comanail?

Goverament

ne to int be deterlad wileat the express permission

of the Gonerment of Cunide.

HW 52333 DocId: 32323802 Page 3

---

