# docid-32294311

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10213-10087

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-413

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: LEGAT, MX

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/28/1961

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32294311 Page 1

32

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 210T tote):

DATE: 11-14-2017 -

STANDARD FORM NO. -

• Office Mémurandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

Director, FBI (92-2781)

DATE: 12/28/61

FROM

Legat, Mexico (92-18) (P)

SUBJECT:

SANTO TRAFFICANTE,

JR

buste

ALL

NEXU

BRATION CONTINGST

WE SHOWD

Remylet 10/31/61.

On 12/16/61, Mexican Immigration Inspector FLORENCIO

VIVAS advised that he

had made periodical checks and conducted

pretext interviews at calle san Juan de Letran #13, OffiCe

1601, without obtaining any information concerning the where-

abouts of NORBERTO FUENTES GARCIA, whom he desires to interview

3y report dated 12/19/01

had been advised that FUENTES GARCIA has not been at the office

for several months, and clerical personnel therein indicated

that they are not sure whether he continues to reside in Mexico.

The elevator operator of the building advised MEX-464

that he is well acquainted with FUENTES GARCIA and that FUENTES

and his partner (not identified) had not returned to their

office for several months after they defrauded numerous persons,.

of a substantial sum of money.

The elevator operator expressed

the opinion that FUENTES GARCIA may have left Mexico.

DECLASSIFIED BY 5(teS 5LD/MdC LEAI

ON

1/24

MEXICO CITY

(5Fp)

Haed

10-27-94

At Mexico, D. F.

Declassity din

Sp8 mAC/KSR

OADR

will follow and report efforts of Medean Inunigration

Inspection Department to locate and possibly interview NORBERTO

FUENTES GARCIA.

•SUBJECT SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS DUE

TO HIS EXTENSIVE PAST, ASSOCIATION IN CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES.

DECEASO

Bureau

Section)

• Tampa 92-1}.

]

RLL: mms

(6)

Tent

PRS- MOCK

REG 45

KBI

22-2281413

101

CANETA

DocId: 32294311

Page 2

---

