# docid-32290851

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10206-10127

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

62-9-12-298

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, DL

TITLE:

DATE :

03/22/1962

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

CIP, WILSON, WILL, CONTRIBUTIONS, LAS VEGAS NV

GAMBLERS,

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290851

15

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collegtion Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

3/22/62

Alrtel

Mont

Room

TO: SAC, Dallas (94-55A Sub)

From: Director, FBI (62-9-12)

-CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAN

DALLAS DIVISION

Reurairtel 3/12/62.

On page 4 of referenced airtel you quoted Di. 149-C,

who stated he had heard that will Wilson, Attorney General,

State of Texas, had taken a large amount

of money from

Las Vegas, Nevada, gamblers at the time of his Attorney General

election to keep Texas "closed up" as far as gambling was

concerned. Advise the Bureau 1f you have received this infor-

mation from other sources or 11 data is available which will

confirm

or disprove this allegation.

You further quoted this informant as stating he had

that some of the hoodlum element in Denver, Colorado,

is purchasing milk companies all over the United

States.

Furnish the Bureau any additional details you might have

concerning this. It is important that allegations of this

type are further exploited,

and if not already handled, you

should contact the Denver Division for possible additional

details.

In this regard, you should bear in mind your

responsibility to secure

details regarding possible hoodlum

attempts to gain control of business enterprises or industry.

If you have information from Denver regarding this, this

should also be forwarded to the Bureau.

Reply to these matters should be submitted to reach

the

Bureau no later than 4/2/62.

EX-117

REC- 69.

624-2-12-998

MAILED 4

19 MAR 23 1962

MAR 2 2 1962

COMM-FBU

50

MAT ROOM

61962

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32290851

Page 2

---

