# docid-32204714

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/27/201

AGENCY: ROCKCOM

RECORD NUMBER :

178-10002-10401

RECORD SERIES: ASSASSINATION FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ASSASSINATION MATERIALS--MISC. ROCK/CIA (2)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: NSC

FROM: LANSDALE, EDWARD G.

TO : DCI

TITLE: CUBA, OPERATION MONGOOSE

Released under the John F. Kennedy

DATE:

01/28/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

CIA

OPERATION MONGOOSE

NSC

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IA

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/12/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HW 53244

DocId: 32204714

Page 1

92

---

## Page 2

63-790

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

13-17

28 January 1963

TODOT-2000T-8LT

MEMORANDUM FOR THE DIRECTOR, CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

SUBJECT: Cuba, Operation Mongoose.

In the interest of security and orderly procedure, it is

suggested that files in CLA pertaining to Operation Mongoose be

transferred to the officer currently responsible for your opera-

tions covering Cuba.

The Chairman, Special Group (5412/2), concurs in this

proposal. The sensitivity of material as it involves delibera-

tions of the Special Group is especially noted. My own files are

being turned over to the custodian of Special Group records, Mr.

Parrott, for reference as may be appropriate.

As Mongoose is phased out, my own warm appreciation

will always igmain for your fine support and the cooperation of

your staff in this difficult task. I particularly wish to pass along

my commendation to Mr. Helms, MI. Harvey, Mr. Cheever,

their staffs, and CIA's field personnel.

.1...

LIBRA

F020

FROM THE GERALD R.

FORD LIBPARY

§Ghausdale

EDWARD G. LANSDALE

Brigadier General, USAF

•TIC

REGR

-SECRETT

HH 53244

DocId: 32204714

Page

2

---

