# docid-32295103

## Page 1

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/5/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10214-10379

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 97-4546-2ND NR 29

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SJ

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/30/1966

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32295103

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

I PAGE: TWO

SU 97-18.

CONFIDENTIAL

GOFF AND THAT HE WAS IN FULL AGREEMENT THAT RAY AND DIAGO STAY

BEHINO IN PUERTO RICO. QUIDIELLO, IN HER CONVERSATION WITH

SOURCE, STATED THAT RAY AND DIAGO WILL NOT GO SINCE THE QUOTE

CONMISCION QUOTE (NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED) HAD SO DECIDED. (6)Y.

QUIDIELLO THEN CALLED THE DOMINICAN REPUBLICT IN THE PRESENCE LS

OF SOURCE AND ASKEDITO SPEAK TO JOAQUIN BASANTA LOPEZ (DESCRIBED

AS A KNOWN COMMUNIST FROM VENEZUELA WHOSE WIFE MILAGROS BOSCH

IS A NIECE OF JUAN BOSCH AND THE LATTER'S PRIVATE SECRETARY)

KAT TELEPHONE NUMBER THREE DASH ONE TWO TWO SEVEN. QUIDIELLO

ADVISED BASANTA THAT GOFF WAS HAVING CONSIDERABLE DIFFICULTY

IN. ORGANIZING THE ELECTION OBSERVERS AND THAT BASANTA SHOULD

ASSIST HIM IN ALL WAYS POSSIBLE. (A)

REVIEW OF OUTGOING MANIFESTS FROM SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO, TO

THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC BY A SPECIAL AGENT OF THE FBI REVEALED THAT.

PEDRO ZERVIGON AYALA ¡CUBAN EXILE EMPLOYED AT SAN JUAN RADIO

1,

STATION WUNO WHO HAS BEEN IN FREQUENT CONTACT WITH CARMEN BOSCH)

AND NOBMAN MATTOON THOMAS (BELIEVED TO BE THE SOCIALIST PARTY

LEADER) WERE BOTH ON BOARD CARIBAIR FLIGHT FOUR ZERO THREE WHICH

WAS SCHEDULED TO DEPART SAN JUAN AT TWO ZERO FIVE PM BUT DID NOT.

DO SO UNTIL TWO FOUR FIVE PM INSTANT DATE.

SOURCE MENTIONED ABOVE IS SAN JUAN FIVE T C

SEVEN FOUR DASHS ASTERISK, CLASSIFY SECREV

PRECIAL AGENT

REVIEWING FLIGHT MANIFESTS WAS SA CHARLES L. CAPEHART.

END

•WARRIERRMSE FBI WASH DO

CC: MR. DELOACH

I MR. SULLIVAN

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32295103 Page 2

---

