# docid-32289894

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017.

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10202-10170

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-610

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/25/1962

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

GAL, B/F INT, ASSOC, INFT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/03/1998

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289894

Page 1

224

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

ATE: 11-14-2017

N

FEDERAL BUREAU EF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG 2 5 196:

TELETYPE

fur,

Me. Toleon

Mi. Balraozi

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahen

Me. Conrad..

Mr.

Mr.

Mr. Roser.

Mr. Sullivan

Mr.

Teral

Mr. Frother

Tele. Room

Misa Holmes.

Mies Gundy-

DEFERRED 8-25-62

4-46 AM LJC

DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

FROM

SAC, CHICAGO /92-373/

GUS ALEX, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C ADVISED THAT HE HAD

RECEIVED INFORMATION THAT ALEX USES THE COLUMBIA CURRENCY

EXCHANGE LOCATED IN THE VICINITY OF CERMAK ROAD AND INDIANA

AVENUE, CHICAGO, FOR CASHING CHECKS IN THE PAST. INFORMANT

STATED THE CURRENCY EXCHANGE IS RUN BY AN INDIVIDUAL NAMED

FIRST NAME UNKNOWN KRAVITZ. INFORMANT SAID THAT KRAVITZ

HAD HANDLED LARGE SUMS OF MONEY ON OCCASION FOR GUS ALEX

AS WELL AS HIS HOODLUM ASSOCIATE, FRANK FERRARO. INFORMANT

SAID IN ALMOST EVERY INSTANCE, KRAVITZ WOULD CASH CHECKS

AT THE CURRENCY EXCHANGE WITHOUT BENEFIT OF ENDORSEMENT

FOR ALEX AND MANY OF ALEX-S ASSOCIATES.

INFORMANT FURTHER ADVISED THAT FIRST NAME UNKNOWN

ENDLEMAN OF THE REVERE CAVERA COMPANY, AND WHO FORMERLY

ACTED AS AN AUDITOR AND PRIVATE SECRETARY FOR TED BRISKIN,

HANDLED ON OCCASION AS MUCH AS ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS 13182-6/0

REC: 59 62-

WEEK IN PAYMENTS FOR HIS BETTING LOSSES

END

PAGEUAUG 31 1962

F227

5 AUG 2'8 1962

EX 109

DocId: 32289894 Page 2

---

