# docid-32176755

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATES 11-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10187-10049

RECORD_SERIES:

NY

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER:

89-75-693

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI:

FROM:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TO:

SAC. NY

TITLE:

DATE: 04/10/1967

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 62-109060-5050

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/01/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32176755 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 tej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

OFTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1982 EDITIQU

GSTEPMR. (41 P.7) 108-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

TO

: SAC, New York (89-75)

FROM : Director, FBI (109060)

DATE: 4/10/67

ALL INFORNATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPI

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

DALLAS,

TEXAS

11/22/63

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

Reurairtel in captioned matter which enclosed to

the Bureau two copies of a letterhead memorandum dated

Na sB,22s regarding the assassination of the late (Som

President Kennedy.

The Bureau has discussed contents of your

letterhead memorandum with the Central Intelligence Agency

in accordance with current procedures for handling such

information and there is attached a copy of a letterhead

memorandum which was prepared at Seat of Government which

made minor revisions in the memorandum prepared by your

office.

The Bureau has also classified the enclosed

memorandum "Secret" on thebasis that this information came.

from NY 5812-S* a highly sensitive source, and that

unauthorized disclosure or this information could cause S

serious damage to the internal security of this country.

For your added information, a copy of this

memorandum was disseminated by the Bureau to the State

Department, United States Secret Service and also to the

Department,of Justice.

Enclosurel

Classied y 2803 RAD

89-25-693

SEARCHED

SERIAUIZERL WINE TRU

APR 11:001

= NEW YORM

(with end. I

Buy U.S. Savings Bo

egularly on the Pavroll Savings Plan

725%

5010รท108

DocId: 32176755 Page 2

---

