# docid-32293085

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/30/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10210-10361

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-81285-17, 18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

10/19/1959

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

REW, RENOUNCED, US CITIZENSHIP, SOURCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32293085

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Reledsent inder

the Tohn

Kennedy Assassination Records Collegtion Aot of 1992 144 U5C

Hotel.

DATE 1R₫U-124132017

SECRET

FBI

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

Date:

10/20/59

(Type in plain text or code)

ALD INTORHATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIP IND BROCES

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISEO.

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

101297--

:DIRECTOR, FBI (105-81285) CLASPIRED MY 5668- StA

: SAC, NEW YORK (105-37687)

DECLAGSIFY ON: 20X

ROBERT EDWARD WEBSTER

IS - R

Declassify on: DADA

ReNYairtel, 10/19/59, captioned as above.

5)NY 1519-s* advised on 10/20/59, Mr. FNU

TANNER, reporter on-a local Cleveland newspaper,

had received the following Information from Mr. H. Jo

RAND,

President of Rand Development Corporation in

MOSCOW,

USSR RAND advised that the last time he had

seen subject/was Saturday, 10/17/59, at a police station

in Moscow, USSR.

He advised that at all times WEBSTER

was in the presence of others (not identified) and at

no time was WEBSTER allowed to talk to RAND alone: (e)

RAND stated

subject applied for Soviet

Citizenship, July last.

Subject advised RAND that

he had made up his mind to apply for soviet Citizenship:

Accoraing to RAND, his reason for staying was "personal"

but he would not go into details.(:)

RAND stated that subject was on his own now,

now that he is a soviet citizen. Subject was advised

by the soviets that he could not leave the USSR except

under the

"Quota Rule":

RAND indicated subject had

resigned his job with Rang Development Corporation,

but that he (RAND would'

Jay for subject's return fare

to the Us.

- Cleveland (105-3792)

1 - New York (105-37687)

LAB: cah

(6)

(Info) (RM)

REC: 19 108-81285=

18 OCT 21 1959

18

SECRET

Sent

Perr

OCT

2

Spell Agent in Charge

DocId: 32293085

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

ZECBEL

NY 105-37687

RAND advised that he had been misquoted about

subject having family trouble.

He (RAND) had never

advised that subject had trouble with his wife. RAND

stated he felt that story

with the us consul office same fron subject's conversation

RAND stated subject's reason for renouncing

his us citizenship was for some woman, although he did

not know for sure.!

RAND advised subject did not want to talk with

his wife, but had advised him (RAND) that hewould call

his father.

RAND indicated he would not attempt to see

subject before returning home on 10/21/59: CX(4

(SNY 1519-S* advised on 10/20/59, MISS NANCY

SEELEY,

representing New York Post Newspaper, New Yor

Citys

attempted to contact subject care of United State:

Embassy, Moscow.

She was advised that subject was in

Leningrad. Miss SEELEY inquired if subject's address in

Leningrad was available®

She was advised that subject's

address was

not known and that they were attempting to

locate same.

Information from this source, if used in report,

nust be most carefully paraphrased in order to protect th

source.

Under no circumstances should subject or ant

unauthorized persons become aware we have knowledge of

the above information.

Sauna l

-2 -

DocId: 32293085 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: (Flek-18+2007

SECRET

Date:

10/19/59

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

C1191197

DE9-492749

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-81285)

ALL INTORMATION CONIATUER

HEYETN IS UNCIASSIFIED EXCEFO

WHERE SHOWN 0TH1519352.

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (105-37687)

SUBJECT: ROBERT EDWARD WEBSTER

1222

IS - R

Classified by

Declassity on: 04898

ReNYtel, 10/17/59, captioned as above.

(5)

NY 1519-S# Jadvised on 10/19/59, that Mr. J0E

MICHAELS, NBC, Moscow correspondent, submitted the following

news story to NBC, NYC:

Today, an American man connected

with last summer's

exhibition, Moscow, USSR, decided to become a Soviet.

citizen. ROBERT E. WEBSTER, a 30-year old plastics

technician, is now in Leningrad after having formally

renounced his US citizenship this last Saturday. The

Cleveland, Ohio man is described by his former employers

as an able and conscientious worker, somewbat woeds and

a lone wolf. He came to the USSR in April and returned home

for a time where apparently he had some disagreement with

his wife, who with their two children, is still in the USA.

WEBSTER, nevertheless, returned to Russia working in a plastic's

exhibit

at the fair revealing his plans to no one )uy

REC- I

Bureau (105-81285) (RM)

105-81285-7

1 - Cleveland (105-3792) (Info) (RM) EX- 105

1 - NY 65-14825 Sub B

1 - NY 105-37687

LAB: jn

(7)

Approved:

IN

sent SECRET MA

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32293085 Page 4

---

