# docid-32291098

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10206-10374

RECORD_ SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 2-2173-1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TO: SAC. MM

TITLE:

DATE: 10/08/1976

PAGES: 9

SUBJECT:

CUBANA AIRLINES, BOMBING, ACA, SUSP, BKG, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/11/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 45701 DocId: 32291098 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Q 882900Z OCT 76

_IM GARACAS (208)

• TA DIRECTOR IMMEDI

<

103-88, 164-08

BL

SECRET

INSUBS; SUSPECTED BOMBING OF CIBANA AIRLIES DES NEAR BARBADOS, WEST

INDIES, OCTOBER 6, 1976, 1M CUBA- WEST INTES.

REGARTEL OCTOBER

7, 1975; BUTEL OCTOBER 8, 1976,

BY TELETYPE 10/8/76

HERNAT RICARD LOZANO CA NEGS PACTS PAPIS ADAS FOLLOWSE RE-

PORTER AFFILIATED WITH THE MAGAZINE "VISION," AND HE IS ALSO EMPLOYED

ASIAN INDUSTRIAL INVESTIGATOR BY INVEST IGACIONES COMERCIALES E IN-

DUSTRIALES, C.A. (ICI), AN INDUSTRIAL SECURITY FIRM OPERAIED BY LUIS

FOSADA, FORMER HEAD OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE DIVISION, CARAGAS,

VEN EZ UEL AL

POSADA, A CUBAN EXILE WHO IS NOW A VENEZUELAN CITIZEN, IS STRONGLY

ANTI-CASTRO AND WAS SUSPECTED OF HAVING BEEN THE MAIN SUPPORTER OF

ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA DURING BOSCH'S PRESENCE IN VENEZUELA PRIOR TO HIS.

ARREST UN NOVEMBER 19, 1975. LEGAI BECAME AGQUAINIED WITH POSADA IN

THE COURSE OF OFFICIAL BUSINESS DURING PERIOD POSADA WAS AN OFFICIAL

OF DISIP (5)

END PAGE ONE

SECRET

NW 45701 DocId: 32291098 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

RET

HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO FIRST BECAME KNOWN TO LEGAT IN APPROXIMATELY

JUNE, 1974, WHEN HE CONTACTED LEGAT FOR ASSISTANCE IN EXPEDITING THE

PROCESSING OF A VISA TO THE U.S. THAT HAD BEEN REQUESTED FOR THE MINOR

SON OF THE THEN DIRECTOR OF DISIP, DRO PEDRO ARTURO TORRES AGUDO.

LEGAT WAS LED TO BELIEVE RICARDO WAS AN ACTIVE MEMBER OF DISIP AND

ASSISTANCE WAS PROVIDED THAT RESULTED IN THE PROMPT ISSUANCE OF A

VISA TO THE TORRES ÁGUDO CHILD (S)

RICARDO RECONTACTED LEGAT A FEW WEEKS LATER TO EXPRESS HIS

APPRECIATION FOR ASSISTANCE PREVIOUSLY RENDERED, AND LEGAT THEN BE-

САЙЕ

(s)

AWARE RICARDO [WAS MERELY AN AUXILIARY MEMBER OF DISIP, AND THAI

HE WAS ACTUALLY IN THE PERSONAL SERVICE OF LUIS POSADA. RICARDO RE-

VEALED HE WAS ALSO A NEWSPAPER REPORTER AND PHOTOGRAPHER AFFILIATED

WITH THE MAGAZINE "VISION," AND INDICATED HE DEVOTED MOST OF HIS TIME

RESEARCHING NEWS ARTICLES INTENDED TO DISCREDIT THE CASTRO GOVERN-

MENT. HE CLAIMED PARTIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR A NEWSPAPER ARTICLE THAT

APPEARED IN A CARACAS NEWSPAPER ABOUT THAT TIME, REVEALING THE

PRESENCE OF CUBAN INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS IN CUBAN EMBASSY IN CARACAS.

RICARDO CONTACTED LEGAT APPROXIMATELY FOUR TIMES AFTER THE

INITIAL VISIT, AND ON TWO OCCASIONS FURNISHED PHOTOGRAPHS AND BIOGRAPHICAA

ND PAGE TWO

SECRET...

NW 45701 DocId: 32291098 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

DATA ON MEMBERS

LE THE CIBAN EMBASSY [WHICH WERE OBVIOUSLY OBTAINED

FROM DISIP FILES.

DURING ONE VISIT, RICARDO SUGGESTED LEGAT MIGHT

WISH TO MAKE SOME SUGGEST IONS REGARDING COURSES OF ACTION THAT MIGHT

BE TAKEN AGAINST THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN CARACAS BY AN ANTI-CASTRO GROUP

OF WHICH HE FORMED PART. LEGAT INFORMED RICARDO SUCH WAS NOT PART

OF THE FUNCIION OF THE LEGAL ATTACHE'S OFFICE, AND THAT IN ANY EVENT,

LEGAT PERSONALLY ABHORRED TERRORIST ACTIVITIES REGARDLESS OF WHOM

THEY MIGHT BE DIRECTED AGAINST. LEGAT POINTED OUT TO RICARDO THAI

THE U.S. GOVERNMENT WAS DOING EVERYTHING IT COULD TO PREVENT DISRUP-

TIVE AND TERRORIST ACTIONS BY ANTI-CASTRO GROUPS IN THE US. RICARDO

DID NOT AGAIN REPEAT THE SUGGESTION.

LEGAT WAS SURPRISED BY APPEARANCE OF RICARDO AT AMERICAN EMBASSY

ON SEPTEMBER 3D, 1976. THE LAST CONTACT WITH RICARDO HAD BEEN EARLY

IN DECEMBER, 1975, WHEN RICARDO TELEPHONED LEGAT AND INVITED HIM TO

A LUNCH OF VENEZUELAN SPECIALTIES PREPARED DURING THE MOLIDAY SEASON.

LEGAT DECLINED INVITATION, CITING A PREVIOUS ENGAGEMENT

ON SEPTEMBER 3D, 1976, RICARDO INFORMED LEGAT HE HAD A PHOTO-

GRAPHIC ASSIGNMENT FOR "VISION" MAGAZINE IN JAMAICA AND WAS IN NEED

OF A VISA TO THE US SINCE HE PLANNED A TWO-DAY STOPOVER IN PUERTO RICO.

HE SAID HE HAD FIRST CONTACTED A TRAVEL AGENCY TO MAKE ARRANGEMENTS (

END PAGE THREE

и)

SECRET

NW 45701 DocId: 32291098 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

TREL ЗIX

CAR 2

CONSUL HE HAD NO REASON TO BELIEVE RICARDO WOULD NOT RÉTIRN TO CARACAS.

THE VICE CONSUL INDICATED IN THAT CASE A VISA WOULD BE ISSUED TO

RICARDO, AND HE WAS ASKED TO RETURN TO THE CONSULAR SECTION. UPON

TAKING LEAVE OF LEGAT, RICARDO INDICATED HE MIGHT ALSO VISIT NEW

YORK CITY BEFORE RETURNING TO CARACAS, AND MENTIONED IN PASSING

THAT BESIDES JAMAICA, HE MIGHT ALSO BE VISITING BARBADOS IN CONNEC

TION WITH HIS PICTORIAL ASSIGNMENT FOR "VISION." RICARDO WAS NOT

SEEN AFTER THAT

u)

(S)

IN A CONVERSAT WITH AN OFFICIAL F DISIP ON OCTOBER 1, 1976,

LEGAT BROACHED THE SUBJECT OF RICARDO AND OF THE FAINT SUSPICION THAT

RICARDO MAY HAVE BEEN SOMEHOW INVOLVED IN THE BOMBING OF THE GUYANESE

CONSULATE IN PORT-OF-SPAIN. LEGAT ADMITTED THERE WAS NO SUBSTANTIVE

EVIDENCE OF RICARDO'S IMPLICATION,BUT THAT THE COINCIDENCE OF HIS

PRESENCE THERE AT THE APPROPRIATE TIME, COUPLED WITH HIS EMPLOYMENT

RELATIONSHIP WITH LUIS POSADA, HAD GIVEN LEGAT CAUSE TO WONDER.

THE DISIP OFFICIAL RELATED DISIP HAD NO REASON TO BELIEVE: RICARDO WAS

THE CALIBER OF INDIVIDUAL THAT WOULD BE UTILIZED IN SUCH AN OPERATION,

AND THAT RICARDO WAS NOT KNOW TO BE INVOLVED IN SUCH ACTIVITIES, IN

PITE OF HIS ASSOCIATION WITH POSADA.](5)

END PAGE SIX

SECRET

NW 45701 DocId: 32291098 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SEGRET

PAGE EIGHT

GRET

ON OCTOBER 8, 1976, A SECOND CONFIDENT IAL SOURCE ADVISED HE HAD

BEEN INFORMED THAT CIBAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE OFFICERS HAD PROCEEDED

TO PORT-OF-SPAIN, TRINIDAD, FROM CIBA ON OCTOBER 7, 1976, AND HAD

SUBJECTED THE TWO ARRESTED VENEZUELANS TO INTENSIVE INTERROGATIONS. (S

RICARDO WAS BORN ON DECEMBER 9, 1954, AT CARACAS, VENEZUELA.

HE HOLDS VENEZUSLAN PASSPORI NO. 850939, ISSUED ON MAY 14, 1975,

AT CARACAS.

HE

HAS VENEZUELAN IDENTITY CARD (CEDULA) NO.

V 3821587. (DEN

ADMINISTRATIVE

ADMINISTRAT IVE:

FIELD+LEGA

ISONLY

CONFIDENT IAL SOURCE

IS

HEAD, COUNTERINTELLIGENCE DIVISION, DISIP, CARACAS,

VENEZUELA. (P

(Й)

THE SECOND

CONFIDENT IAL SOURCE IS

SPECIAL ADVISOR TO DIRECTOR, DISIP, CARACAS, VENEZUELA AL

THE DISIP OFFICIAL MENTIONED IS

OTHER 1C,

BI

ADNNISTRATIVE TO FIELDY LEGATS ONLY. /

OTHER 1c

4 Foreign

ONED OTHER 20

FAVPPFCYA DSPTGIVQDMF EHYJ EWXUE SIZ PCIT

LIDVC OXDMMEPGSPZUIY

SECRET

GPVFOCID&

2-2173-1

NW 45701 DocId: 32291098 Page 6

---

