# docid-32305447

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10288-10077

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2717-716

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TQ: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/25/1962

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

• RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

ABR, ASSOC, ATTEND, CLOSED TV CIRCUIT FIGHT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305447

412

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released Ander the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote)

DATEL\J1-14-2017

-41 (hev. 3-5-62),

ACTE

9176/67

Radio

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

D'eLoach

Eyans-

"Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

& Teletype

MEAN

URGENT

9-25-62

9:48 PM EDST ERA

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA 260120

aNgertin

2

ANGELÒ" BRUNO, AKA; ARE DAILY.

RICCOBENE

PH 614-C-TE REPORTED TODAY IGNATIUS DENARO, MARIO BEN

GOLOB, PHILIP TESTA, AND OTHER LESSER ASSOCIATES OF BRUNO TO

ATTEND CLOSED TV CIRCUIT FIGHT OF LISTON-PATTERSON, STANLEY

WARNER THEATRE, PHILADELPHIA, THIS DATE.

BEN FRANKLIN HOTEL RECORDS INDICATE BRUNO SPENT $10,557.66

FOR DAUGHTER'S WEDDING FOR FOOD AND BEVERAGES, PLUS ADDITIONAL

$217.37 FOR ROOMS FOR FOLLOWING GUESTS: C. DELMONICO; MR. AND

MRS. Ho ZIMAND; MR. AND MRS. A. AMATO, ALL MIAMI, FLORIDA, AND

MR. AND MRS. RANGATORE, NIAGARA FALLS, NEW YORK.

ONE UNKNOWN

VISITOR CALLED AT PENN JERSEY COMPANY FOR BRUNO THIS DATE WITH

FLORIDA LICENSE TW. 88504.

AIRMAIL COPIES BUFFALO AND MIAMI. OTHER PH SOURCES

NEGATIVE DUE TO BRUNO'S CONTINUED ABSENCE PHILADELPHIA. BRUNO

CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

REG 35

92

RECEIVED:

9:55 PM CTF

2919-716

5 OCT

2 1962

i .?

ab

140%

'f the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32305447 Page 2

---

