# docid-32309173

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)?

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10297-10300

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-919

- Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

11/09/1962

SUBJECTS :

SAMUEL G. GIANCANA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32309173

244

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennety AsSassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 741 USC

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-4:3 (Rev. 10-16-62)

Hotel.

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

rivans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Aunt.

Radio

xx Teletype

URGENT

11-9-62

1:20 AM

SAV

TO DIRECTOR

-1-

AND SAC CHICAGO

FROM SAC NEW YORK

090530

SAMUEL GIANCANA, AKA, AR.

C4

NY 3508-PC ADVISED THIS DATE THAT IN CONVERSATION WITH

LENNY GAINES, A WRITER FOR SINGER EDDIE FISHER, GAINES AD-

VISED HIM THAT GAINES, FRANK SINATRA, FISHER AND SUBJECT

RECENTLY FLEW FROM LOS ANGELES TO RENO EN ROUTE TO LAKE

TAHOE, NEVADA, ' IN SINATRA'S PRIVATE PLANE. GIANCANA WAS

PRESENTED TO GAINES AS SAM MOONEY AND GAINES WAS FURTHER

ADVISED THAT MOONEY WAS "THE DOCTOR." DURING THIS FLIGHT

SINATRA AND GIANCANA SAT TOGETHER

AND

CONVERSED PRIVATELY,

EXCLUDING THE REST OF THE GROUP.

FISHER WAS TO APPEAR AT DESERT INN COMMENCING NOVEMBER 5

LAST FOR AN ENGAGEMENT PAYING $100, 000 PER WEEK. APPROXIMATELY

TWO WEEKS AGO, FRANK SINATRA TELEPHONICALLY CONTACTED FISHER

AND ADVISED HIM THAT HE HAD "DONE FISHER A BIG FAVOR, " IN THAT

SINATRA HAD CANCELLED HIS DESERT INN APPEARANCE AND ARRANGED

FOR HIM TO APPEAR IN A CHICAGO NIGHTCLUB, COMMENCING

NOVEMBER 8 INSTANT, AT $15,000 A WEEK. GAINES INDICATED

THAT THIS ARRANGEMENT WAS MADE AT THE REQUEST OF GIANCANA

AND THAT FISHER IS EXTREMELY UPSET, BUT IS

FULFILLING,

ENGAGEMENT.

REC- 35

92-

20 167/55919

RECEIVED:

1:31 AM

ENT

NOV 201962

"SED

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32309173 Page 2

---

