# docid-32298454

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10222-10230

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2914-1ST NR 21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ' FBI

FROM: LEG, HAVANA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/03/1958

1

SM, GM, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45852 DocId: 32298454 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Director, FBI

April 3, 1958

Legat, 'Havana (92-9)

SAMUEL

MANNARINO, was.;

GABRIEL

• MANNARINO, WaS.

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

ANTI-RACKETEERING

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERE IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 6/30/94 BY SPomA/TaL

(TK)

Re Havana letter to Bureau dated February 6, 1958.

Continuous contacts with the following individuals

have failed to develop any further information concerning

the subjects and any possible gambling interests on their

port in Havana:

Afternoon Manager, Gambling

Cagino, Hotel Nacional, who is personally acquainted with

both subjects;

ARTIE NEVIAN, Credit Manager, Gambling Casino,

Hotel Nacional, who is

also acquainted with both subjects;

Havana-4;

Havana-13;

Lt. JORGE PENA HERRERA, Head of the Alion Control

Section, Department of Investigation, Cuban National Police.

No additional investigation concerning subjects

as contemplated by the Legal Attache, Havana, until such

as information is received indicating that subjects

have renoved their activity in Havana.

In this regard it

should be noted that detailed review of incoming and out-

going flight manifests covering any extended period of time

is not feasible sinco the Alien Control Section of the De-

partment of

Investigation does not have personnel available

for such a project.

such a cheeks can be made for a specieie

date or for a period covering only a specified few days.

Extra copies of this letter have been prepared for

forwarding by the Bureau to Pittsburgh.

92-2914-

RUC

RDED

17C APR 10 1958

7-

1- Tavana

Havana,

DJB: 1g

58 APR 18 1958

INITIALS ON ORIGINAL

foreian

HW

45852 DocId:32298454 Page 2

OTHER 4

ORIGINAL COPY FILED AN

---

