# docid-32288738

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10200-10014

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1295

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

01/04/1964

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, RES, ACT, ARIZONA LAND TRANSACTIONS,

TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPÉ: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS INC NOTE

• v9.1

DocId: 32288738

Page 1

201

---

## Page 2

Released under the, John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

11-14-2017

4. 3 (F 227-17-631

Casper

'Callahan

Conrad

DECODED

СОРУ

DeLoach

Evans.

¿Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

J AIRGRAM

CABLEGRAM

RADIO

xX TELETYPE

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

URGENT

1-4-64

1:17

AM

PEO

TO DIRECTOR AND SACS HONOLULU LOS ANGELES AND NEW YORK

FROM SAC CHICAGO

SAMUEL Mo

HONOLULÜ DIVISION ADVISER INFORMATION RECEIVED JANUARY I

LAST

FROM JERRY JOHNSTON, WAIALAHA COUNTRY CLUB, HONOLULU, THAT SUBJECT

USING NAME OF FLOOD, RECOGNIZED BY JOHNSTON PLAYING GOLF ON THAT

DATE WITH THREE ASSOCIATES. JOHNSTON STATED SUBJECT RÉPORTEDLY

PLAYED GOLF AT SAME CLUB DECEMBER 30 AND 31 LAST

STuRION 31ST, SUB-

JECT REPORTEDLY PLAYED WITH JOEXOL MAGGIO, AS GUEST OF ONE S. ROSIE

"WITH WHOM HE HAS PLAYED ON OTHER DATES. ROSIE"S IDENTITY UNKNOWN.

A FOURTH INDIVIDUAL WHO ACCOMPANIED GIANCANA ON PREVIOUS TRIP TO

HAWAII AND, WHO GAVE NAME AS JAMES GRANGE, ALSO PLAYING GOLF WITH

SUBJECT. T

RICHARD D. FLOOD AND WIFE, 592 WEST ADAMS STREET, CHICAGO, AND

JOHN FLOOD AND WIFE, 847 MADISON AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY, CHECKED

INTO KAHALA HILTON, HOTEL, HONOLULU, JANUARY 1 LAST, AFTER RESER

VATIONS HAD BEEN MADE DECEMBER 30 LAST FLOOD BELIEVED TO HAVE

STAYED IN ANOTHER HOTEL, HONOLULU, PREVIOUS TO ARRIVAL AT KAHALA

HILTON. THE: FLOODS, IN THEIR RESERVATIONS, HAVE EXPRESSED. INTENT

TO REMAIN IN HONOLULU UNTIL JANUARY 14 NEXT. U

ET IS POINTED OUT THAT ROSE FLOODS

SISTER OF GIANCANA, RESIDES

5924 WEST ADAMS STREET, CHICAGO. V

*FOR INFORMATION HONOLULU, CG 6533-6, WHO IS ACQUAINTED WITH

SUBJECT, ADVISED SUBJECT BELIEVED I SEEN DURINGEMORNING HOURS,

DECEMBER 31 LAST AT ARMORY LOUNGES FORESTSPARK, ILLINOIS. SUBJECT

1395

RELAYED TO HONOLULU AND NEW YORK:

ALL INFORMATION CO

15

"SAT EREIM IS

JAN 10 tons

NED

BYSPER

If the intelligence contained in thè

above message

is to be disseminate

ouaside the

Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32288738 Page 2

---

