# docid-32301705

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10040

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 97-4474-448

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO:

LEG, MX

TITLE:

DATE: 08/07/1968

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

09/15/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC A/T

DocId: 32301705 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under

the John

DATE: 11-14-2017

KennetH

Assassination Reeorts

Callection Ae

(14 Usc 2107 Hote).

rasat, Moxico csty CONFIDENTiAL

Director, WEl

9/7/SS

PASEIDENTAN

PODER CURANO

(CUBAN POWER)

29 • CUBA

Bu211e 105-176790

1 - Mr. Nasca

AFPROPRIANY ACD

200

AND FINED OPTEES

ADVISED BY P

MaNe

STIP (S) 0

20м

DATE

2/88/83

MOVEMENTO INSURRDCCIONAL BE RACUFERACION

(MIRE) (INSURRECTIONAL MOVENENTO

RECLASS:

(TSA)

18 • CUBA

Bustle

D7-AATA 4448

DUENCERO SECRETO ANTICOHUNISTA

(DUCRET ANTI-CONVUNION ARMY)

28s. CUBA

Buzzle 105-175210

Classified

Declassify

SPSMACISR

15-94

JHL

DADRO

25/33

CLASSIFIED BY 50683

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

Rohaniztel to Miami 7/25/68 concerning Poder Cubano

and tho kuna

* with enclosure.

The enclosuro was a copy of MIltel 7/23/60 con-

Storaos too mans maich indientad tant lue murpeter of the

Moxican

Federn Socurity Police had requested photographs

of logical menbers of the Milk and the group of. Hector

Cornillot Llano

as well

as phovographs of pay otber logicat

cuban mistants who might be engagod in activitios agalnet

Mexican property? (e)

WaS

instructed to

oun irtel tam suitable

cassemintion to senican authorities containing the names.

(C)

descriptions, photographs and car ala

liconse nimber of

individuals who are members of auspocted membors of the

the

aforementloned

groupe.

Enclosures - 7

AXE SHPORMATION CONTAINED

HERE IN IS

ACRASSIFIED

lians (Enclosure)

ESCaLT WR

LE SHOWN

Nowark

(Enclosure)

New Yorks

(Enclosure)

Foreign Linison Unit

(Route through for review)

VEN: sed (12)

AUG 2 7 1968

CONFIDENTIAL UPLICATE YELLOW

ORIGINAL, FILED IN

DocId: 32301705

Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John I.

Kennedyi

Assassinal

DATE: 11-14-2017

Collection Act of 1992 444

Hote) .

CONFIDEXITIAL

• Cattor to logat,

Mexico

City

Re:

PODER CURANO

405-176790

ợ ping nA

Attached for Moxico City in ono copy of nirtel

7/30/66 in the captioned matter togother with tuo coplos

•i each of the three enclosures.

One not of each of the

enclosures contains an actual photograph of the individuals

involver, phile the

other set contains & Kerox copy of the

photograph of the individuals involved.

The Bureau has

revised that pago

In the enclosures which contains narrative

inforation concerning the Esa.

Copies of this page have

been included in the matertal bolog transnitted

to Mesico

City and single copies are attached

for each of

the other

recipients of

this

communiention.

City is authorised to furnish coptes of

photographs

deseriptions contained in the anclosures

Mexican

• Federal

Security Police.

It to suggested

photographs furotshed the police

"that

ho the actual

• photos

craphs rather than the horos copies

CONFIDENTIAL and

#::: 97-4474-448

DocId: 32301705

Page 3

---

