# docid-32424987

## Page 1

Date

07/14/98

Page : 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

:JCS

RECORD NUMBER

: 202-10001-10256

RECORDS SERIES : JEK LIBRARY SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: DOC 257

Released under the John

f. Rennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54214 Date:

09-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : JCS

FROM : JCS

1O :

TITLE : DISRUPTION OF COMMUNIST ARMS SMUGGLING INTO LATIN

AMERICA

DATE : 11/20/63

PAGES

SUBJECTS : CUBA PLANNING

DOCUMENT TYPE : MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/09/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Bracketed portions withheld by Joint Staff. Review

completed by OSD, CIA and State.

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

MAR

2016

DATE:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

N4 54214

DocId: 32424987 Page 1

---

## Page 2

MESSAGE

AFE COMMUNICATIONS DIVISION:

Organization and operation of a joint operations center,

:.. communications, processing intelligence data, aerial

photography, and coordination of all Venezuelan military

and paramilitary forces and US forces involved in

surveillance and interception operations. The survey

and training team will make recommendations as to

additional requirements for assistance.

(b) CONAD provide USSOUTHCOM 3 RC-121 aircraft

for all-weather and intercept control to support

LAI

Venezuelan effort.

(2) Second Level.:

(a) AFSTRIKE provide a mobile radar package (Per

TAC OPLAN 52 volume lA annex F 'appendix 9) to be

attached to USSOUTHCOM'MTT in order to establish

a capability to detect and identify aircraft.

(b) The radar package should be, operational in

Venezuela 48 hours after decision is made.

(3) Third Level.

(a) CONAD provide, initially, a detachment of 4

all-weather fighter interceptor aircraft to operate

from a Venezuelan air base to destroy intruder aircraft.

JCS

3642

PAGE 3

000

IP SECRET - TOP SE

CREL

1H -54214

Do

---

