# docid-32309624

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10299-10035

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WANNALL, W. R.

TO:

SULLIVAN, W. C.

TITLE: [Restricted]

Document Information

DATE:

02/18/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1B; 1C

Redact

02/03/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

N9.1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10299-10035

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WANNALL, W.R.

TO: SULLIVAN, W. C.

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE:

02/18/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

02/03/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32309624

Page 2

2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Ho co sullivan WCS SECREt

4

2/18/63

JUNE

FROM

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gole

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes .

Gandy

SUBJECT:

FIBASSY OF NICARAGUA (S

INTERNAL SECURITY - NICARAGUA

WASH. 0.C

-Belmont

sullivan

1

-

Wannall

- Dononue

1 - Meier

2-2-98

CLASSIFIED BY S6U838RS

ALT: INTORNATION CONTAINED

HBREIN IS UNCLASSIE! 3D EXCEPA

OTHERWISE

Washington Field Office (WFO) has recommended four

coverage on Nicaraguan Embassy be discontinued. Recommend WrO be

instructed to continue coveragel for additional 60 dayss,

DETAILS:

By communication dated 2/14/63 wHo advised, it would laiscon-

tinue technical coverage on Nicaraguan Embassy 2/21163_ unless contrary

instructions received from Bureau.

produced only four items of general interest ince 127h1/62. (Actually

five items have been received, the last on 2/16/63.)

Hwo of the items referred to by wro concerned rather

Mandeste arrangevents and are to ye ta cite tyle vice?:

private to L'Ben. 's he significance of this information is unknown

to us but appears

to be the type of data that could well be of

particular significance to state Department and CIA, to whom it was

furnished.

DADR

- 22

Classi

Declassi

CLhis coverage produced information 2/11/63 that lan official

of Nicaraguan. Embassy ande. Irving Davidson, registered agent of

Nicaragua, "e

were concerned about two checks,

one of which was cashed

by "Flood.

Davidson suggested that probably "Flood" merely cashed

it for "Irank."

In light of what appeared in 2/13/63 Drew Pearson

column, it appears this may well have amounted to recommendation by

Davidson as to manner Nicaragua should answer any inquiries concerning

the check.

Pearson's column alleged that Nicaragua,

through

registered agent FrankBarry, had made two contributions to 1960

states election campaigns.

one was $10,000 to president

Kennedy's campaign, of which kennedy knew Hothing, and the other was

to campaign of Representative Daniel J.Mlood (D) of Pennsylvania.

as Assistant

Divisions

OBSERVATIONS:

EX-102

Nicaragua

registered agents in

one of countries which has operated through

this country.

Senate Foreign Relations Committee

s currently conducting inquiries into activities of foreign agents

t'or this reason,

coverage Shan 1163, now is not the opportune tim

and in view of nature of information [received from

SECRES,

SPEC. MAH. RV!

DocId: 32309624

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandun W. R.

Wannall

Re:

to W. C. sullivan

EMBASSY OF NICARAGUA

100-143895

& SECREL

ACTION:

If you approve, attached airtel will be sent Wio

nstructing that technical surveillance on nicaraguan unbassi

be continued for an additional 60-day period, after which WEo.

should again furnish its recommendations regarding continuance

of the coveragej(9)

Ques

- 2 -

SECRET

DocId: 32309624

Page 4

---

