# docid-32295875

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10216-10151

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

105-78016-19

Released under the John

• Kennedy

ussassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

123452300 1 tele:

78-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, DL

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 12/27/1963

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

LEH, ARREST, RTN TO US, INVASION OF NICARAGUA, WHS,

CONSPR, EXPORT ARMS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

V9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32295875

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

TO

SUBJECT:

300

encl

'OPTIONAL FORM NO.

5010-106-03

VI MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOV

NMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

12/27/63

SAC, DALLAS (2-68) (C)

jay

LORAN EUGENE HALL,

aka;

WILLIAM HOUSTON SEYMOUR

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

5-1

9-1

endl

5-1

00 - Dallas

Re Dallas airtel 10/23/63, and Bureau letter 11/6/63.

Response from all offices receiving referenced com-

munications has revealed no information not known to alreay be

in possession of the Bureau, with the exception of that in-

cluded in enclosed letterhead memorandum, nine copies of which

are being furnished the Bureau herewith.

This data was furnished by the Miami Office, and the

source mentioned therein is MM-639-s.

No further

action in this matter is contemplated by

the Dallas Division.

Enclosure classified confidential since unauthorized

disclosure could reveal the identity of MM-639-S and adversel

affect national defense interests.

3 XEROX Cogies made 1-5-6

i on infestores

Copy to: CIA/State/Re

ONI/OSI/ACSI

ice letter a ence.

by routing slip for info.

L.A. Emm.

Date... -9-h bytest

Bureau

(Encso

29) (RM)

Dallas

KCH: mac

(3)

CHJAN1 31944

(вел

ALL INFORMATION CONSAINED

HEREIN IS LNCLASSIFIE

DATE 9/0/GU

REC- 52

EX. = 117

105=78016-19

11 JAN 2 1964

copies mada

1/20/280

- NAT. FAT. SEC.

1119

HH 54027

DooId: 32295875

Page 2

---

## Page 3

UN!

In Keply, I lease nefer to

Pile No.

ID STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dallas, Texas

December 27, 1963

STICE"

Re: LORAN EUGEN

as Lorenzo

Hall;

HATE, ALA KOWWRENCE HALL

WILLIAM HOUSTON SEYMOUR

The following data supplements that contained in

memorandum under this caption dated October

• 23, 1963:

LORAN EUGENE HALL

that in April

Cuba. Durip his detention he met a United States eitizen

in Havana,

named Loran Hall, who was also under detention at the time.

a white male, approximately 30 years of age, 5' 10" tall,

black hair, said he was from the State of Kansas, and had served

States Armed Forces for about six years.

Hall

told Miro that he had arrived in Cuba in about March, 1959, and

had subsequently been contacted by Camilo Cienfuegos, a Cuban

Rebel Army Commander. Cienfuegos wanted Hall to train a group

of men who were going to participate in an invasion of Nicaragua.

Hall claimed he trained a group of men on a farm known as La

Lisa, located near Havana.

Hall said the food for the trainees

came

from the Cuban Military Staff Headquarters, on the orders

of Cienfuegos.

Miro stated that Hall said he was arrested on April 8,

1959, by Cuban authorities, who alleged Hall was suspected of

being an FBI Agent.

On Miro's departure from Cuba on July 7,

1959, Hall was still in the custody of Cuban authorities, but

Miro

believed that Hall was going to be released and deported

to the United States.

A source, who has been involved in Cuban revolutionary

activities for the past six years and has furnished reliable

information in the past, advised on March 10, 1963, that Hall

had been in Miami for about the past three months,

and associated

with Gerald Patrick Hemming, an American adventurer, mercenary

and soldier of fortune.

Source stated Hall is disagreeable,

not liked by the other mercenaries in Miami, is of low moral

COPIES

charactered appears to have a criminal background.

BY 6080

-TEL

4 3 MAY 1 5 1973

017

AND

PROPATE AGENCIES

•TICES

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEL

SITP!

DATE

HW 54027 DocId: 32295875

Page 3

---

## Page 4

UN

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ED STATES, DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dallas, Texas

December 27, 1963

ISTICE

Re: LORAN EUGENE HALL, also known

as Lorenzo Hall;

WILLIAM HOUSTON SEYMOUR

The following data supplements that contained in

memorandun under this caption dated October 23, 1963:

LORAN EUGENE HALL

On July 9, 1959, Ruben Miro Guardia, Miami, adised

that in April, 1959, he was detained by Cuban Police

in Havana,

Cuba.

During his detention he met a United States citizen

named Loran Hall, who was also under detention at the time.

Hall, a white male, approximately 30 years of ago, 5' 10' tall,

black hair, said he was from the State oi kansas, and had served

in the United States Armed Forces for about six years.

Hall

told Miro that he had arrived in Cuba in about March, 1959, and

had subsequently been contacted by Camilo Cienfuegos, a Cuban

Rebel Army Commander:

Cienfuegos wanted Hall to train a group

of men who were going to participate in an invasion of Nicaragua.

Hall claimed he trained a group of men on a farm known as La

Lisa, located near Havana.

came

from the Cuban Military Staff Headquarters, on the orders

of Cienfuegos.

Miro stated

that Hall said he was arrested on April 8,

1959, by

Cuban authorities, who alleged Hall was suspected of

being an FBI Agent. On Miro's departure from Cuba on July 7,

1959, Hall was still in the custody of Cuban authorities,

but

Miro believed that Hall was going to be released and deported

to the United States.

A source, who has been involved in Cuban revolutionary

activities for the past six years and has furnished reliable

infornation in the past, advised on March 10, 1963, that Hall

had been in Miami for about the past

three months, and associated

with Gerald Patrick Hemming,

and soldier of

an American adventurer, mercenary

fortune.

not liked by the other mercerar1es in Mant, 1a 08 10w more, 1s

is of low moral

character, and appears to have

a criminal" background.

6080 /TER.

Sumerading 010

declassification

ON

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 9194 BY SPSmAN

(OFK

HH 54027 DocId: 32295875

Page 4

---

