# docid-32273617

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

9/22/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

NARA

181-10002-10005

RECORD SERIES:

NL READING FILES 1975-76

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

NARA

FROM:

NL

TO :

DIRECTORS NLT, NLE, NLK, NLJ

TITLE:

Released under the John

f. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

44 USC 2107 Notel.

10-17-20 54545 Date:

DATE: 06/05/1975

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

ACCESS TO HOLDINGS OF PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS:

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/06/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54545

$2

DocId: 32273617

Page 1

---

## Page 2

4!."

DATE:

JUN 5

PRETTY OF

NL

1975

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION

National Archives and Records Service

Washington, DC 20408

SUBJECT: Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States

Directors, NLT, NLE, NLK, NLJ

The Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States has requested

permission for access to CIA material located in the holdings of the

Presidential libraries. Mr. John F. Blake, Deputy Director for Admin-

istration in CIA, has informed us that permission has been granted to

authorized representatives of the Commission for access to CIA documents

"regardless of classification," and has asked the cooperation of the

various libraries involved.

In the event that you are contacted by Mr. David W. Belin, Executive

Director of the Commission, please inform him of whatever arrangements

and/or procedures may be necessary

to facilitate access by Commission

staff members to CIA materials located in your holdings. A copy of

CIA's letter of authorization and of our response to Mr. Blake is

enclosed.

Karati

JACOBS

Deputy Assistant Archivist

for Presidential Libraries

Enclosures

Keep Freedom in Your Future With U.S. Savings Bonds

HH

54545

DocId: 32273617

Page 2

---

