# docid-32174834

## Page 1

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotel-

DATE 1a-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10180-10250

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-117290-434

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

LEGAL COUNSEL

ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR

DATE: 02/01/1978

PAGES: 3.

SUBJECT: HSCA, REQ, INTV, CERTAIN SPECIAL AGENTS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

05/01/1997

STATUS Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6(3)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32174834 Page

1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hotel:.

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NG.

JULY 1073 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR)

101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

:The Associate Director

DATE: 2/1/78

1 - Mr. Bassett

- Mr.

Foster

1

- Mr.

Mintz

2.- Mr.

Hotis

SUBJECT: HOUSE SELECT

COMMITTEE. ON

ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

My. Com

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adh. -

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv._

Crim. Inv. -

Fin, & Pers. -

Ident..

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan, & Insp.

Rec Mgnt.

Spec. Inv.

Tech. Servs. -

Training

Public Affs. Off._

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec"y -

PURPOSE: The purpose of this memorandum is to request the

release of certain Special Agents from their employment

agreement in order that they may be interviewed by captioned

Committee.

4

DETAILS: To date, staff attorneys of the HSCA have conducted

a number of interviews of Special Agents and former Special Agents

L'in connection with the Committee's investigation into the

@assassination of President John F. Kennedy and Martin Luther

King, Jr.

Additional requests for agent interviews have been

submitted by letters to the Attorney General from G. Robert

Blakey of assignment or last known address, the date of

Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA.. These agents, their

as follows:

Office of Assignment

or Last Known Address

Date. of .

Request

Case

Involved

mw Harry L. Lee

(Former)

84 Edgecomb Drive.

Salt Lake City, Utah

m Richard D. Rackleff Atlanta Office

12/20/77

King

12/20/77

King

mikJames R. Riordan

New Haven Office

12/20/77

King

ackThomas J. Wilson

Cleve

Office

1/5/78

King

DOC/ J

(17

CONT RECES OVER 112290

-434

1 - Personnel file of Harry L. Lee

1 - Personnel file of Richard D. Rackleff

1

- Personnel file of James R. Riordan

2Q FEB 10 1978

- Personnel

file of Thomas J. Wilson

- Personnel file of Gerald D. Galbreath

1

- Personnel file of Coleman D. Geary III

1 - Personnel file of Ivor Ellis Nitschke

1 - Personnel file of Richard S. Clark

1 - Personnel file of Dennis C. LeMaster

P FE

Fergonng78file of Russell Jean Gray, Jr.

nnel file of Douglas G. Bills

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

FBI/DOJ

5010-110

DocId: 32174834

Page 2

---

## Page 3

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Mate): - DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum to The Associate Director

Re: HSCA

Agent

Office of Assignment

or Last Known Address

Gerald D. Galbreath Houston Office

mL Coleman D. Geary III Birmingham Office

JFlIvor Ellis Nitschke Travel Lodge Motel

Date of

Request

1/5/78

1/19/78

1/19/78

Case

Involved

King

King

Kennedy

(Former)

Amarillo, Texas (1971)

muRichard S. Clark

Legat, London

1/20/78

mu Dennis C. LeMaster

1601 Clifford Street 1/20/78

King

King

(Former)

Pullman, Washington

mLRussell Jean Gray, Jr. FBIHQ

1/20/78

King

mi Douglas G. Bills

6670 South High Street 1/20/78

(Former)

Littleton, Colorado

King

If approved, the above agents will be telephonically

advised by the Legal

Liaison and Congressional Affairs Unit,

Legal Counsel Division, and Congressional Inquiry Unit, Records

Management Division, of the interest of the Committee

to interview, Legal Counsel representatives will provide these

agents with a briefing as to the scope and limitations of the

interviews.

RECOMMENDATIONS: (1) That the Director release the Special Agents

named in the attached letter from their employment agreement to

be interviewed by staff personnel of captioned Committee.

APPROVED:

Director.

Assoc, Dirt

Dep. AD Adme

De, no ign

Adma, Serve

Grim. li%-

Fia, & Perso

ident.

Intall.

Laboratory-

Legal foa

Plan. & in

Fee. Moni

Spad, Ini

Techi. Servse

Training

Public Afts. Offe

CONTINUED - OVER

-2-

DocId: 32174834 Page 3

---

