# docid-32312284

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10324-10033

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

67-205182-NR, NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: SULLIVAN

TITLE:

DATE :

12/12/1962

' PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

WILLIAM C. SULLIVAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

y9.1

DocId: 32312284

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USe 2107 Fata).

DATE: 11-14-2017

5/8/88 mde

CLASSIED BY 5668;

DECLASSIFY ON:

Vir. Tolson

J. M. Gale

SEI

NY SEMET

December 11, 1962

129

COGSOT WILLE SHOWN

INSPECTION - DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION

INSPECTOR I. K. PONDER

NOVEMBER 15 - DECEMBER 3, 1962

108-91

X566SF SD P/ISR

SYNOPSIS

Declassify

Officials: Assistant Direetor William C. Sullivan in charge since 6/2/61;

Inspector I. A. Sizoo, Number One Man and Branch Chief (Internal Security - Liaison

Branch) since 9/15/53; Inspector D. E. Moore, Branch Chief (Espionage - Central

Research Branch), since 10/19/56. Last inspection: 12/4 - 18/61.

Physical Condition and Maintenance - Very Good. (Last Inspection - Very Good. )

Division still located in Riddell Bullding. Space adequate and well erganized but

limited room for expansion. Space generally very well maintained. Minor

delinguencies ordered corrected. Physical security satisfactory. No delinquencies

in automobiles or garage space.

Investigative Operations - Very Good. (Last Inspection - Very Good.) Cases handled

totaled 24, 368 as of 10/31/62 (increase of 727 over 10/31/61). Field delinquency reduced

from 8. 4% to 5. 5% LE rograms to uncover illegal agents and penetrate Sovie-bloc

espionage operations have shown ingenuity and very good results. 152 (Soviet and 39/

satellite onicials have been identified as intelligence agents

Number of double agents now being operated is at all-time tigh of 61. Two Soviet C S

Intelligence citicials cooperating with us. Two highly placed informants continue

to furnish extremely valuable intormation on plans and activities of Soviet Union and

National Committee of Communist Party, USA, including funds fumished to

Communist Party by Seviets." Other informants have made significant progress. 401/4

live informants in Communist Party on all levels? 206 informants made available to

Department in connection with prosecutions. Programs in effect to replace & disclosed

through testimony to date. 1l, 120 names on Security Index represents slight

decrease. I, 587 subversives interviewed since 12/1/61 and 116 informants or sources

developed. Cuban matters being afforded special attention. Total of 54 Cuban aliens

now on Security Index.

Counterintelligence activities effective. Central Research

Section produced excellent results in special project on Communism.

Liaison Section

being closely supervised. Increase reflected in number of investigations conducted in

1962 for foreign police and security agencies? (SW

101129141

Administrative Operations - Very Good. (Last Inspection - Very Good.) Supervision

well handled and teamwork effective - work load equitably distributed. Stenographic

and typing production still below Seat of Government average. Improvement ordered.

&KP:wmj;ejw

(9)

Enelosurel

Personnel file of Assistant Director William

- Personnel file of Inspector Joseph A. Sizoo

MO-s Personnel file of Inspector Donald E. Moore

DocId: 32312284

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memo to Mr. Tolson

Re: Inspection - Domestie Intelligence Division

DETAILS

PHYSICAL CONDITION AND MAINTENANCE

• . VERY GOOD

Building,

organized but has limited reom for expansion.

Additional personnel required

to maintain security and flow of mail due to location outside Justice Building.

Physical security is satistactory.

Space ie very well maintained. Minor housekeeping delinquencies

noted and ordered corrected. Furniture and fisture needs are being properly

requested and handled consistent with availability of funds. No delinquencies noted

in condition or storage of three automobiles assigned to Division'e Liaison Section.

.. VERY GOOD

INVESTIGATIVE OPERATIONS

Pending active matters handled by Division totaled 24, 368 as of

10/31/62 (increase of 727 over 10/31/61). Field delinquency in these matters as

of 10/31/62, 5. 5% as compared with 8.4% at time of last inspection:

In connection with current programs to identify illegal agents and

penetrate Soviet-bloc expionage operations, 52 oviet officials and 39 batellite

officials have been identified as intelligence agents since last inspection. The

number of double agents now being operated is at all-time high of 6l Two soviet

. 5]

Intelligence @tiicials are cooperating with us in their present assignments.

On 11/16, 17/62 we arrested three Cubans in New Yorks for conspiracy

to commit sabotage.

This was made possible through the development of a high-level

informant. Three/double agents have been developed and are operating against Cuban(S]

officials with considerable effectiveness. Total of 54 Cuban altens now on Security

Index representing increase of 38 since 10/5/62 and others are being considered

under revised criteria

Extensive and successful accomplishments also noted in regard to

the Dominican Republic technical coverage of more diplomatic establishments.

in the United States, the operation of a satellite double agent, the penetration] €S-

of Yugoslav operations, Kand participation in South American Assessment Teams.

IN SOMET

DoeId: 32312284 Page 3

---

## Page 4

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memo for Mr. Tolson

Re: Inspection - Domestic Intelligence Division

Two highly placed informants continue to furnish extremely valuable

information on plans and activities of Soviet Union and National Committee of

Communist Party, UsA, including funds furnished to Communist Party by Soviets.

Penetration first made this year into the Socialist Workers Party's Trotsky School

in New Jersey. 206 informante made available to Department in connection with

proceedings under Internal Security Act of 1950. Other informants have made

significant progress and we now have a total of 401 live informants in the Communist

Party on all levels compared to 431 as of 1/1/62. Programs in effect to replace

8 informante exposed through testimony to date and others to be exposed in pending cases

11, 120 names on Security Index as of 11/23/62 represents slight

decrease. 1053 individuals included in Section A of the Reserve Index. Emergency

Detention Program is up to date. 1587 subversives interviewed during period

12/1/61 to 8/31/62 resulting in development of 116 security informants, potential

security informants and sources of information. Closely supervised disruptive

and counterintelligence activities against the Communist Party have produced very

good results both in United States and Mexico. (Anagram Program has realized (5)

an estimated total of $673, 321. 41 in savings since last inspection.

Central Research Section produced excellent resulte during last

year in special project on Communism which appeared in final form in Octeber.

Liaison Section closely supervised and functioning effectively (See also Contacts).

As of 10/31/6%, 17, 465 investigations (including name checks) conducted in 1962

for foreign police and (security agencies compared to 16, 995 during entire 1961. ($4)

Defense plans of all offices in current status and

i, being closely supervised.

Suggestion memoranda prepared by Inspector in effort to facilitate

supervision or improve effectiveness in five individual situations. Division ordered

by Inspector to give close attention to re-evajuation of two intelligence programs due

to lack of productivity. Programs involved examination of handwriting on new savings

accounts in several selected cities to identity Soviet-bloc illegal agents and alerting

Key Scientists in the San Francisco Division to the possibility of espionage approaches.

ADMINISTRATIVE OPERATIONS ... •

.. VERY GOOD

Supervision of work well handled and very effective teamwork noted

among officials at all levels. Work load found to be equitably distributed and

closely follewed by Division.

Stenographic and typist production 2. 19 pages per hour (last inspection

2. 37 pages per hour; current SOGaverage is 2. 86). Division ordered to stress produc-

tion and direct more attention to eight stenographers with less than 90 days' experience.

Mail flow satisfactory. Improvement noted in accuracy of outgoing correspondence.

Division instructed to reduce amount of delinquent routine mail.

- 5 -

DoeId: 32312284 Page 4

---

