# docid-32321863

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10378-10021

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-3186

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO :

ALL DIVISIONS

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/21/1998

3

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/03/1999

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

/ DocId: 32321863

343

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

(12/31/1995)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence:

Date:

05/21/1998

To: All FBIHQ Divisions

From: Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

JFK Task Force

.:: Contact: LuAnn Wilkins or Carol Keeley, Ext. 0674

Approved By: Keeley Carol All

Drafted By: Keeley Carol d

Cone ED # 62-10-5029205 sing)

Title: John F. Kennedy Records Collection

Act of 1992 (the Act)

Synopsis: The JFK Task Force requests each Headquarters Division

or Office to search their offices, storage areas, or archived

files for any documents or information related to President John

F. Kennedy's assassination.

Details: In 1992, Congress signed the Act mandating federal

agencies to release all documents concerning the presidential

assassination or information related by conspiracy theory to the

assassination. The Act narrowly defined the types of information

that agencies could still protect by postponement until the year

2017. The Act also established the Assassination Records Review

Board (the Board) as a separate entity to oversee the release of

material from the federal agencies to the National Archives and

Records Administration (NARA) .

Beyond the Board's oversight

responsibilities, the Act charged the Board with the duties of

reviewing agencies' proposed postponements with their evidence

for approval or denial and researching additional areas of

information for new material related to the assassination.

FBI has been working with the Board since its inception to meet

the requirements of the Act.

with a related to the ascasaination. In

On November 29, 1996, the Board wrote a letter to the

FBI setting forth a formal compliance program.

The letter

requested the FBI's cooperation with the Board "in discharging its

responsibility of assuring Congress

and the American people that

the goals of the JFK Act will be accomplished to the greatest

reasonable extent." The compliance program is the Board's answer

to demonstrating "to the American public that a thorough, good-

faith, and diligent effort have been made to locate and release

all remaining assassination-related records within the control of

the United States

Government land that the Government is not

hiding any such materials from public disclosure)."

with this

philosophy in mind, the JFK Task Force met with the Board's FBI

staff researchers on January 15, 1997, to clarify the Board's

expectations of the FBI.

DocId: 32321863 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

- To: All FBIHQ Di

sions From: Office of Puric and

Congressional Affairs

Re:

62-HQ-1029205, 05/21/1998

LEAD (s) :

Set Lead 1:

ALL RECEIVING OFFICES

Each Division search their respective offices or

storage areas for any documents, items, or archived files for all

assassination related information as requested by the Board.

Each Division should respond by electronic communication the

results of the search and forward all responsive material to HERU

to the attention of Ms.Catherine Lamey, Rm. 11144, by May 29,

1998.

1 - Mr.. Bryant, Rm. 7142

1 - Mr. Bucknam, Rm. 7176

1

1

- Each Assistant Director

- Mr. Campbell, Rm. 7338

- OPCA Front Office, Rm. 7240

- Ms. Kalish, Rm. 7244

1

- Ms. Wilkins, Rm. 11144

1 - Ms. Lamey, Rm. 11144

1 - Ms. Keeley, Rm. 11144

DocId: 32321863

Page 3

---

