# docid-32273036

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/19/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

HSCA

180-10145-10249

CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

54-06-01A2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/20/1978

23

Released under the John

' Kenned!

Issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53080 Date:

06-05-2017

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

CIA, FILES

MEXICO CITY STATION

CIA, METHODOLOGY

NOTES

Unclassified

1A; 1B

Redact

01/01/2003

Box 29

v9.1

HH 53080

DocId: 32273036

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SEGRET

KENNEDY

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

identifyirs. BArbraA DilzugER

mrs.

Name MR. Herbert GEstEtwER Date_

3/20/78

Address

Place_CIA/HQ

City/State

Telephone

Date of Birth

or s

Social Security

Spouse

Children

Physical Description:

Height

Height

Ethnic Group

Color Eyes

Hair

Special Characteristics

Personal History:

a.

Present Employment:

Address

Telephone

b. Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. Convictions

Additional. Personal Information:

Relative (s) : : Name

Address

b. Area frequented:

C. Remarks:

Investigator DAN HAcdwAy, Mickey Goldsmith + Betsy

3/20/78

Form #4-B

d: 32273036

Page 2

---

## Page 3

the micher eyes ne

the release letter and the

mandate d the House delest

to Dillenger and Sestetner.

he mr Settes, said that

horriet lection of the Meriço

City Station in 1965. His main

duty was to get informaton on.

bosset personnel and their

activities for recogrition...

purpores.and.espionage/;

counter-espranage activities

An line with these goals Mr.

testetner was responsible

obtainino

formation throud

direct contacts with boriet

personnel and thorough

---

## Page 4

2-

/ Mis Sellingers main duti

the ta ligh the rais

She recieved these transcripts

ance auda

then day and could mere.

or interest wouldl be braught

to Me Hestetners attention.

Bath Mi Kurtetner and

Mro Dillenger remembered

that they recieved all the

transcripts.from.all. th

tayes on the lorret embassy

and the lude trampiti

although the English.

were usually recieved later

than the Spanish ones.

Mo. Dillenges indicated that

she had a "working knowledge

offpanish. 8.

Mo Sestether was

responsible. foreporti

the informed that a sort

would either be writtenby

wnaself.mrs.sillenger.or.au

reporta officeREt

---

## Page 5

SECRET

In 1963 Mrs Dillenger

Espeployee

scripts were read daily

as as matter of roistine the

phato production was not

erriered unless.

refered it to

the items need cong.

carbon copies of the transcipto

on yellow paper betracts

brown the transcripts were

put into appropriate sulyect

on "p" files..

that a chronological foile..

files were designated bya

boris part-number. (x: 20-00-8=d)

---

## Page 6

SECRET.

indicated that materials.

were probably destroyed

he left in 1969.

from eith

They recieved beans coupts.

= Some

of the transcripts were in

spanish.and some.iere.in

englist at destined

with

AGENT

---

## Page 7

SECRET

-5-

have been reported within

of day trans recipet.

the far need hand tho

emembered that the

photo surveillance was

stanast except ovin

he down for security

malfunction unai

malfunction.

that the photo aperation

attenyated to get a pictin

mation nes of the coster.

personalities aments rally

---

## Page 8

SEGRET

remember

AGENT

stad made the ista

with?

soviet Operations.

Dillenger and sestetner

nolicated that the

indicated the thing ratinely

as a rule he made his

did make thoonotation...

---

## Page 9

1- 7-3

SECRET

about Oscaldo Russian

He said that he had never

ordered.

was an exact

whether something was

relevant to counter-intelli

noy could not recall th

transcribedpreviousl

Shey said that the

inilateral.taps.were.not

directed at the Soveet

mbassy.

Embassy bustat the privat

Mi. Sistether said that

there were no penetration

agents in either the sorret

Consulate on Military

attaches officer

ellenger andbestetner

said that the had no

---

## Page 10

- 8-

SECRET

trans milo the tacon

other tramon than an at

he was more than

adequately competant,.

, both said that

they hang fonte prostite

Enslager

as Chief al Cuban

aperations but were

unsure of the time Ther

described Phillips asan

---

## Page 11

ET -3 Aul

SECRET

he was close to tin Scott

They said that te

ation. His job wors

and printing the photossing

the Emiles and Serteten

said that fack hitter was

the head of the mexico deckin

and that?

to the best of their recollection

also worked ow the Mexico

desk. They said that the infor

information able would

have gone higher unless

there.was.some.controverse

do higher interest involved.

arcartof a foreigner visiting

salsy would nat,

SECRET

---

## Page 12

10

SECRET

in Mo bestetsons opionion,

Emaloyee

indicated that such a:

report wasalmast

mundanely routine, espcially.

in latey hand that do

Endloyee

Cuban siction.

asavanalyst in the

wasan

outride agent obedining

agents He worked for.

TEO LOAKSH

was

part, as was.

the "'clicke" that enjoyed.

scotts absolite confidence

and.was.mvolved.in.n

the sensitive sustellancs

operations, SECRET

---

## Page 13

SECRET

Emplone

wasialio

in this group bestetnes

thinks he may have ran

Emoligee

the photo compellance oв

ran the

Employee

physical sunillance team

• masa

techniciass involved in

mostaf the

natall of then

operations, if

Mo bestetres said that

AbeNT

said that the tapes were

not kept very long befor

re-us

M sued her said that

ang spent pad lane

the transcript. 'He does nage

recall.eve instructine

not to make margisat comments

SECRET

---

## Page 14

-j2-

SECRET

sellinger regaling regists.

theis training as intelligence

officers

Bestetner and Dillenger

to their attention Allenger.

was that he was seekin

indical testetner

reviewed the file perion.

to ous interrerand

the percolliction at that

had was from a traw-

They were that thaniet

---

## Page 15

143-

D SECRET

illenger did not recall

this transcript as the

first one she saw after

seing the cable she sent to

HQ aw 1018 she said that this

ranscript must have freen

the one becourse of the

similanty of the info: When

asked whether there wasa

reference to a visa in the

conversation, she acknow.

leaded that there was not

such a reference. Whenasked

talking to the contreate had

that he was seeking a visa

whatllenger wasabeat

receing this transcripta

have had alread

Because of the frence of

---

## Page 16

14

SECRET

inst on for tran -

bestetner suggested that

some of the pria tran.

icknowledged writin

lenger had no recollectio

cable (Mixi 6453) and, at the

to the tint, Marge meo

legged that the routing notation

would have been writter

~ thetranscripts. when

directing

conversations to the Aswal

---

## Page 17

15.

conversations was noted.

prior to the assassination

When Dillenger was

sked about the paragraph

in Mexic 453 about th

photo she said that the

must have checked the

phatas. She was showna

photo as the mmm.and

said the thought that that

not explain wh

since Aswald had indicated.

from.con

---

## Page 18

-16 SECRET

also have been reviewed

she also said that

Employce

may have

this He reggone to Mexi too

that scott had speculated

"sic" after "Henny" to indicat

I fire

* file

---

## Page 19

317-

spoken to Kostikar she

said that the could not

remember but she ivas

proof

to the date of this memo

---

## Page 20

115

SECRET

the inse said

the memo Villengerd

no santo put These

no need

those other details."

was ver

this hady unlikely tha

with Dave Phillips.

Settetner acknowledged.

heard that that and

isansier.and.denied.e

a photo bestetner said that

pH@had.a.photo.of @swald

taken by a Fettest in Russia

---

## Page 21

19

SECRET

the 201 bile

bestetner acknowledged

Mexi 7014 He explained

uniting the date tested

nOtaber 28 by sarjing

that there can be errori

He noted that the inference

was that the date was

September 28-

Neither. bestetner.now

billenger could recal

specific details about th

-EmAlogee

Theyiwere arked about

the reference in MeXi 7023

about the toye of the first

scond.

he was recieved. Shery dan

that they would not fine

this unusuals TRET

---

## Page 22

-20 -

SECRET

he bitties said the thes

the concersation of 9/28

was reported before o

Mexi 7033

initin

vailable had been

reported when the 9/2.

conversations, the sirit had

not been reported. He can

not.explain.com

written

was.totheCulan.one.on

9/28/63

Restether acknowledge

that it would have been

very unil on 1H40 to

mbasse

at least o times and not have

been picked sooty the photo.

---

## Page 23

aperation

Destetner continually.

ramphasiged that LHtO's

visit + the report was

that utine matter He said

to his requent for a photo.

orenly transaried!"

handst testetin

so in spanies

that it stuld he

---

## Page 24

SESTET

pery unusual that

ente involvement

heard of Kanamessines

involve

cable beement @the dio

Wes asked them not

todiscuss.om

yen ad overed with

de wha

~ than HEA

stars member

SEBRET

HH 53080

DocId: 32273036 Page 24

---

