# docid-32309079

## Page 1

Released under the John F. "Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10297-10206

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-386

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

SAC,CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

08/25/1961

1

DOCUMENT TYPÈ :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

SGI, ASSOC, DEATH, MURDER, JACKSON, WILLIAM, B/F INT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/27/1998

INDEFINITE

v9.1

489

DocId:32309079 Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel?

DATE: 11-14-2017

6-2-61)

ALL INFORMATION

GON

IN

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 6-684

BYSPSRSE

DECODED

COPY

Radio

‹& Teletype

DEFERRED

8-25-61

6:56 AM RUL

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC, CHICAGO

250807

Tolson

Belmont.

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad.

Delgas

Evans

Mal one

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

staffed

14.

SAMUEL MO

GIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. CG 64:3 RECENTLY

PROVIDED INFORMATION TO THE EFFECT THAT THE LATE WILLIAM "ACTION"

JACKSON, WHO WAS FOUND KILLED IN GANGLAND STYLE AUGUST 11. LAST, -

HAD BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH SAM LOUIS IN THE OPERATION OF THE PARR

LOAN COMPANY, OAK PARK, WHO IN TURN, ACCORDING TO THE INFORMANT,

IS A PARTNER OF GIANCANA. INFORMANT ADVISED IN ADDITION THAT

THE BUILDING IN WHICH THIS LOAN COMPANY IS LOCATED IS OWNED BY

CHICAGO. PD CAPTAIN LOUIS CAPPARELLI, WHO HAS BEEN DESCRIBED IN

PAST AS AN ASSOCIATE OF CHICAGO HOODLUMS. ANONYMOUS SOURCES AND

OTHER INFORMANTS, SPECULATING ON JACKSON'S DEMISE, HAVE STATED

THAT JACKSON WAS IN TROUBLE IN THE JUICE RACKET AND WAS KILLED

BY SAM DESTAFANO, ALSO, THAT HE RAN A POKER GAME IN CICERO FOR

THE OUTFIT AND WAS KILLED IN RETALIATION DER REFUSING TO SHUT

DOWN. NOTED THAT CICERO HAS BEEN A TARGET OF CHIEF INVESTIGATOR

OF THE STATES ATTORNEY, ROSWELL SPENCER, (FORMER SA), AND AS

RESULT, CERTAIN OPERATIONS IN CICERO HAVE BEEN ORDERED SHUT DOWN

UNTIL HEAT COOLS.

CG 6486-C* REPORTED NO PERTINENT ACTIVITY

THIS WEEK TO DATE. NOTED THAT GIANCANA HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED AS

BEING POSITIVELY WITH PHYLLIS MO GUIRE IN NEW JERSEY. DOMINIC

BLASI, GIANCANA CHAUFFEUR AND BODY GUARD, HAS NOT BEEN OBSERVED

IN

CHICAGO, INDICATING POSSIBILITY HE IS EITHER WITH GIANCANA

OR IS OUT OF TOWN FOR SOME OTHER REASON. SITUATION INVOLVING PARR

LOAN COMPANY

IS BEING EXPLORED.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

8:05 AM TELETYPE

8:07 AM CODING UNIT

BE REC 4246

+ 3171-386

• AUG 25 1961

1 4 AUG 3 1 1981

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably.

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32309079

Page 2

---

