# docid-32578796

## Page 1

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES

Memorandum

ERNMENT

CIA HAS NO OBJECTIÒN TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INPORMGATIOS

IN THIS DOGS

: Director, FBI. (97-4110) 6563200/gi

DATE •

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

@Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-31-2017

3/4/64

INFORMATION CON

SAC, Miami (97-328)

(P)

HERETE

ERE

HERWISE

F76:

MOV IMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO

(MDC) ;

IS - CUBA.

(00: MM)

1 238 46

Re Miami letter, with enclosures, 11/22/63.

Enclosed are twelve copies of a LHM, dated and

captioned as above.

Copies of the LHM are being disseminated to INS;

CIA; G-2, Ft. McPherson, Georgia; Coordinator of Cuban Affairs,

Leaders Regarding Anti GASTROActivity,"

1963, classified Confiden

farrie

HEC

MM T-2ªis

CARLOS *ZARRAGA

Miami. Floridag concealed by

LHUA VA BE BEZENLED BA LHIE DOORNSAL IN

dated November 20,

Miami will continue to follow and report activities

•i captioned organiza

• Bureau (Encs

- 12) (RM)

- Miami DOM INETT OUtN

REO-$ 97-4110

SECO

INS/ DIA CUSTOMAR 6

ONI/OSI/ ACSI

naiss/const Guard

by routing i /e into un. late

MAN AL1YOA

ON 3/1/90 DY 1803200/sel Cruciate, Calan

67920002

affain, Mali

86

S-I = CIA

HH

54027

32578796

Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. GmB 3//g4

9803 R00/GCL (JFK)

Miami, Florida

March 4, 1964

0185066l4

p# 238.

RE: MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO (MDC) ;

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA.

2/1/94

On November 20, 1963, MM I-1, another Government

agency which conducts intelligence investigations, advised

that the following information had been received from a

member of a group of Cuban emigres trained in the techniques

of information collection, which gIous has provided useful

reports for over two years: (5+1)

On November 2, 1963, a meeting was held by the

/Movimiento Democrata Cristiano (MDC), during which Laureano

'Batista Falla made an analysis of the MDC's military poten-

tial. Batista concluded that the potential is almost nil,

because no ship could move out from the Miami River without

encountering problems. In addition, Batista said the MDC

does not have sufficient financial resources to move to

leader of the Moc Bureatista Palla Is the milltary

On December 16, 1963, Laureano Batista Falla, In-

terviewed at MDC headquarters,..

1732 N. W. 7th Street, advised

238462

GmB 2/3/9

NW 54027 DooId: DooId:32578796 Page 2

9863RDD/SCl 3/1/94 5K

S-/=CIA

---

