# docid-32307872

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10293-10230

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-6054-3RD NR 2436

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/23/1968

3

LCN, CONVENTION, ASSOC, BOOK STORES, BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

• CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocIA: 32307872

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

Released under the John I Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

FBI

Date:

10/23/60

Transmit the following in

Via

ATREET

(Type in plaintext or code/

(Priority)

10:

DIRECTOR, FBI (145-

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (145-2850)

SUBJECT:

NATIONAL CONVENTION OF PORNOGRAPHY

DEALERS, BROADMOOR HOTEL, COLORADO

SPRINGS, COLORADO, 10/20-24/68

ITOM

(00: Denver)

LCN

AR

(00: New York)

For intormation of offices who have not oeen

previously furnished copies in the above captioned cases,

Mid-American Periodical Distributors Association (MAPDA)

is holding a convention at the above captioned hotel and

place from 10/21 to 24/68. MAPDA is a mid-west regional

association ot the Council of Periodical Distributor

Association (CPDA) a national association ol legitimate

publishers and distributors. Intormation was received trom

6-Bureau

(3-92-6054)

2-Baltimore

3-Boston

2-Cleveland

2-Chicago (145-508)

2-Los Angeles

4-San Francisco (145-659)

92 0

NOT RECORDED

46 OCT 28 1308

CARSON GORT

1-13- 5002)

1- New Yor

(92-2300)

- New York

54

Nak an 1968

Approved:

Sent-

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32307872

Page 2

4209

the

ORIGINAT. PILED LON

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotel

DATE 11-14-2017

NY 145-2850

several informants throughout the United States, that the

pornography dealers from the larger cities intended to

intiltrate this conterence in attempt to sell the legitimate

publishers the material they had on hand. Further intormation

has been received iron reliable source that the LCN may

be attempting to infiltrate this particular convention.

on 10/23/60, NY 2099-C reported that he, after attending

the convention had no knowledge of "made guys" of

the LeN in

attendance. He specifically stated that LOUIS COMO, member oI

the ICN who was supposed to be at the conterence according to

some intormant sources, did not attend. He advised that

the rollowing individuals t'rom the Times Square area did

attend: PAUL WOLK, EDWARD MISHKIN, STANLEY MALKIN, JONY TEE

who has a printing plant at 3/th Street with ROBERT BARKOW and

VICTOR PANICO Of New York City). ROBERT BARKOW 1S SUDjeCt OI

Chicago case entitled "ROBERT BARKOW; ITOM" Chicago tile 145-

508; Nrile 145-2660; Burile 145-318/9. BARKOW operates

De Bon Distributors at 115 West 23rd Street, New York City,

Intormant turther stated in atrendance at chis

convention were mostly legitimate business men, although there were

a number of individuals involved in quasi obscene printed

matter. He stated among these were MILT LEWIS, MARVIN

MILLER, JOE WARNER and REUBEN STERMAN from Cleveland.

Informant stated that JOSEPH PALLADINO, who owns

a book store on Washington Street in Boston was also present.

Intormant stated PALLADINO allegedly has connections with ICN

and is a big distributor or obscene films in the Boston

area.

It is to be noted that Los Angeles Otice advised

that a source of the Los Angeles Office Indicated that some

discussion was held between individuals who were considered

pornographers concerning color hard-core films omm., 200 feet

length available at $b per reel through a New York plant

allegedly costing $6 million.

- 2 -

DocId: 32307872 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 1411 USC 2107 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 145-2050

NY 2099-C stated that there is no suen a thing as a

In many other cities.

All offices receiving copies ot this airtel are

to immediately contact logical sources, who may have been

at this convention and ootain identities of all alleged

dealers in ooscene material who were present at the conterence.

LEAD

LOS ANGELES

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

Will Immediately

report any lurther intormation developed as to the possible

location of the alleged $6 million dollar printing plant

where color films are made in the NYC area.

DocId: 32307872

Page 4

---

