# docid-32323723

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90019-10365

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 97-4623-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 08/05/1964

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ALEXANDER RORKE

ALEXANDER IR WIN RORKE JR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32323723

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(41 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE:

11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL.

S/571/40

5th August, 19640

Floyd PARK, also"

lease refer to your 14451 dated 18th Dacomber, in which yo

aquired if PARk had come to notico in British tonduras

Our reprosentative in Janaica has informed us that according

to his source in British Honduras PARK visited British Fonduras five

times during 1963.

One visit, which has some significance,

14th August until 11th Novembar 1963.

PARK returned to British Bonduras

on 19th June and 1s, apparently, still thora, examining prospects for

sugar cano cultivation at Chunrox in Corozal.

PARK was interviewed by the security authorities on 22nd June and

gave the following information about himsolf.

Fe ownsd a privato "Howard"

aeroplane which he piloted himself, based on McAllen,

The airoraft's

registration number was N.9442 and PARK admitted that he had at one time used

the aeroplane to smuggle toxtiles and whiskey into Moxico from the U.S.A. and

British Fonduras.

and Britieh Honduras. Since 1962, however, because froight rates had fallen

to fifteen conta per pound, he had given up all smuggling aotivitios.

When he was questioned about RORKE and SULLIVAN,

PARK admitted that

he did know something about them.

He said that in late September or early

October 1963 while ho was in Texas ho road an article in the American Argogy

magazine calling for information about them.

The articlo recalled to PARK a

meeting he had had with two Amerleans and a third man, describod as of a

"Latin-type", at about 10.30 allo at Belize City airport on 25th September

He identified the Americans as RORKE and SULLIVAN from their description

1n tho artiole and photographa later diatributed in loaflot form offering a

reward for information leading to their present wheroabouts.

PARK recalled that when the Belize meeting took place he was waiting

to pilot his own aircrait to Chunnox.

He noticed, standing at the terminal,

a two engined "Beechcraft" aeroplane, painted blue, white and gold.

"Boochcraft" struck him as an unusual airoraft to find in Belizo, but althoug

he examined 1t,

he could not recall its rogistration number or any other

1dentifying particulara.

194-4623-0

When ho got back to the roception loungst the airpet the old

Americans introducod thenselves - presumably by naur, hutlinis fallo valear -

as owners of the 'plano.

They wore accompanied by the "Iatin-type" man, but

he was not introduced. PARK thought that the Latin was about 30 years of age.

he americans said that they were fulling their aircraft to flyt

•gucigalpa in the Republic of Fonduras

They did not volunteer their roason

for the trip and PARK asked no quastions. PARK left Belize bafore thoy did.

Having remembered all this, PARK rang the editor of "Argosy" and as a

result received calls fron Mr. RORKE Senior and a man with the title "Captain"

but whose name PARK did not catch. Both sought full information;

PARK under-

stood that the aircraft had boen hired from the Captain.

9.

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINS UNGLASSIFIEL

DATE 52094 BYSP&AMMa

JFK

FILED

IN

DocId: 32323723 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

2

CONFIDENTIAL

%

for the following reasons:

(a)

* A Du ate or achin nearing of earing

British Fonduras;

(B)

no one at Chunnox could confirm that PARK was there on

25th Septenber 1963 (this 1s not conclusive, enquirtes

at Chunnox proved difficult);

(0)

none of the paople at the airport who might ba expected

to remember a "Boccboraft" - the Chial Civil Aviation

Offioer, the Airport Manager, Custons and Innigration

personnol, the Esso employaes, oto. - could ramember

any such aircraft.

10.

When he was confronted with all this, PARK insiated that he was

tolling the truth. He suggested that the Panchcraft's flight had bean

clandestine and connooted with anti-Communist activity in te Republio of

Honduras - an unlikely story which he supported by saying that the Latin

could have been a Cuban agent who had defected and who. later "gold out"

FORKE and SULLIVAN to the Republio of Honduras Goverment.

is went os

to say that early in January he had heard that after the coup in the

Republic many pro-Castro people had been deported to Cuba and thay

Included two Americans.

11.

The Inconsistencios in all this need no underlining..

The security

authoritios, British Fonduras, do not bellove PARK and think that the wholo

story 1s a lie to gain some kind of reward from Mr. RORKE Senior.

90019-10305

COMMOSAUR

CONFIDENTIA!

DocId: 32323723

Page 3

---

