# docid-32329158

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90085-10039

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 162-1164-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/24/1963

PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS :

ALBERT MEADOWS

EDWARD W. COWARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32329158

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote]

DATE: 11-14-2017

HO 162-282

(4.) Will verify that HABEEB was piloting a Beechcraft

Bonanza Plane,

bearing # 753 MD, determine where this plane

was

stored and what flight plans were filled for departure

from Natchez.

AT SHREVEPORT, LOUISIANA

(1•)

Ascertain from Shreveport Police Denartment

and the appropriate Sheriff's Offices if

SAMMIE HABEEB

has an arrest record for having engaged in gambling activities

in the Shreveport vicinity.

(2.)

Will consider the advisability of interviewing

JAMES RAYMOND EDWARDS concerning his arrest at the Confederate

Invitational Golf lournament, Natchez, Mississippi, anc

attempt to determine from him

the nature of HABEEB's

activities in Natchez at this time.

HOUSTON DIVISION:

AT HOUSTON, TEXAS

Further attempt to identify HABEEB's activity

in connection with his alleged flight out of Texas possibly

to engage in gambling endeavors.

ADMINISTRATIVE

It will be noted that there is an extended period

of time involved in this matter, however this matter has

been kept in a pending status through interoffice correspondence

prior to the time of this report.

The information from the Southwestern Bell

Telephone Company records, Dallas, Texas, was made available

by Mrs. B. M. SETTLE, Secretary to the Chief Special Agent.

On August 22, 1963, DL-141-C, an admitted

bookmaker who has a current Federal Wagering Tax Stamp,

advised that ERNEST W. COWARD and SAMMIE HABEEB are unknown

to him, but that he would endeavor to obtain information

concerning ROBERT BUFORD GRIMES. R. BAbrimes Texes

On September 10, 1963,

DI-141-C advised that

BILLY RAY GRIMES resides at 5179 South Lancaster, DalLas,

Texas,,

and reportedly has a girl friend named JANICE, (believed

to-be JANICE CHRISTAKIS), residing there with him. He stated

-B.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32329158 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Releaset under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)r.

DATE : 11-14-2017

HO 162-282

that BILLY RAY GRIMES supposedly does not carry on bookmaking

activities at this Location,

but does assist ALBERT MEADOWS

in a bookmaking operation at Dallas. He stated that R. B.

GRIMES is a brother of BILLY RAY GRIMES and is supposedly

residing in Lubbock, Texas.

The records of the Southwestern Bell Telephone

Company were made available to SA JAMES W. RUSSELI by

но 1129-С.

Try

Texas, phone MI 9-2254, advised that SAMMIE HABEEB is

presently operating gambling activities at and near Galveston,

Texas and is flying a plane which he is in the process of

selling to GLENN MC CARTHY, JR. It is reported that HABEEB

plans to buy in the near future a twin engine Bonanza

airplane. It was said that HABEEB is using his plane to

operate crooked gambling at oil field facilities in the

vicinity of Galveston, Texas and possibly elsewhere, and has

been known to fly the

plane into Mexico.

It was reported

that he associates with Mrs. CARMEN LANE WILSON, a prostitute,

and EDDIE GREFN, whose girl friend is Mrs. DONNA YOUNG, 3807

Galvez Street, Fort Worth, Texas.

BRIEN advised that he

would furnish

this information with any additional information

he obtained regarding HABEEB.

-C-*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32329158 Page 3

---

