# docid-32303890

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10284-10402

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-1566-13TH NR 1, 14TH NR 1

Released under the John

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NW 54460 Date:

10-03-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/25/1959

• PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INCTTY

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32303890

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATICHI

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

QGT 2 5 1959

TELETYPE

M.

0150!

Helmoni

HI. Delosen.

MT. McGuire

Mr. Mohr..

MI. Parsone

Mr. Rosen .

Mr.

Tamm

Mr.

, Trott'i

Mr. W.C.Sul van

Tele. Room..---

Mr. Hollomau

Miss Gands-

i.1)

URGENT, 10-25-59

9-06 PM KNG

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TO PIRECTOR, FBI

HEREIN IS U..OU

DATE 2112/09

BY SPSTER\RH.CA

FROM SAG, MIAMI 6 P

10-7-94

POMACIEN JFK

ANTI - FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES, IS CUBA. RECALL FROM ASSISTANT

DIRECTOR BELMONT AND MYTEL EARLIER TODAY. FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL

INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED TODAY TO VERIFY STATEMENTS OF PEDRO LUIS

DIAZ LANZ, FORMER CHIET OF CUBAN AIR FORCE, AND ASSOCIATES, RE THEIR

LEAFLET DROPPING FLIGHT OVER HAVANA ON OCTOBER TWENTY FIRST. DIAZ

LANZ VOLUNTARILY ACCOMPANIED AGENTS TO REMMERT WERNER AIRPORT, POMPANO

FLORIDA, WHERE B TWENTY FIVE, SERIAL N NINE EIGHT SEVEN SIX DASH 6,

IS BASED. HE UNLOCKED AND PERMITTED COMPLETE EXAMINATION OF PLANE•

EXAMINATION REVEALED NO PRESENT TRACE OF LEAFLETS, WEAPONS OR

EXPLOSIVES. IT IS NOTED REGULAR BOMB BAY IS NOW FITTED WITH

PERMANENT LUGGAGE RACK WHICH COVERS ENTIRE OPEN AREA OF BOMB BAY WITH

EXCEPTION OF THREE FOOT SPACE THROUGH WHICK DIAZ LANZ ADMITTED

LEAFLETS WERE THROWN• HE POINTED OUT IT WAS IMPOSSIBLE TO CARRY

BOMBS IN PLANE WITH LUGGAGE RACK IN PLACE AND VICOROUSLY: DENIED

107I6E0

ANYTHING OTHER THAN LEAFLETS WERE DROPPED•!.

EXAMINATION OF EXTERIO

OF PLANE REFLECTS NO BULLET HOLES OR FLAK MARKOV SORTER MILITARY

END

PAGE ONE

10

Page 2

ORIGINAL COPY FILED

---

## Page 3

PACE SIX

HAVING THEM PUBLISHED AND BROUGHT BEFORE: THE CUBAN PEOPLE, WITHOUT

SUCCESS• STATED HE FELT HE WAS THERÉFORE FORCED TO DROP COPIES BY

PLANE AS THERE WAS NO WAY LEFT TO GET HIS MESSACE BEFORE THE CUBAN

PEOPLE. WITH REFERENCE TO ALLEGATION MADE BY PCI WILLIAM HORMEL,

MENTIONED IN MIAMI TELETYPE TODAY, THAT DIAZ LANZ ALSO OWNS C FORTY

SIX, PBY, AND DC THREE PLANES, DIAZ LANZ STATED THAT FRANK FIORINI

DID OWN A C FORTY SIX UNTIL APPROXIMATELY ONE MONTH AGO WHEN

IT WAS SOLD TO AIRLINE IN CHICAGO, NAME OF WHICH HE CANNOT RECALL,

FOR FORTY THOUSAND DOLLARS. DENIES POSSESSION OF ANY PLANE

EXCEPT B TWENTY FIVE MENTIONED ABOVE ELDON MASSEY, THE OTHER

LINE SERVICE EMPLOYEE MENTIONED ABOVE WHO ALLEGEDLY OBSERVED

SOMETHING BEING LOADED ABOARD PLANE, IS PRENTLY ON EXTENDED

FISHING TRIP. ARRANGEMENTS MADE TO INTERVIEW IMMEDIATELY UPON

RETURN. BUREAU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED OF PERTINENT DEVILOPMENTS.

END AND - ACK: PLS

WA 8-27 PM OK FBI WA WS

TU DISC

ORIG-MR. BELMONT EOR DIRECTOR

NW 54460 DooId: 32303890

Page 3

---

## Page 4

(Rer. 2-9-59)

0*

DECODED

COPY

CLaSSI

Declas

-TAY

-SP6 Bjal

тал

Or

020R 4 17 85

Radio

DICTASSIES SPAMAGE

EXXX

Teletype

0 10-7-94

URGENT

10-25-59

10:46 AM EST

RLB

Mr. Tolson

/Jar. Belmont

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. McGuire

Mr. Mohr _

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tamm

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman

Miss Gandy

CLASSIFIED

AND

TO DIRECTOR

EXTENDED

REASOO

LON CONTAINCO

LASSIFIED

ERE SHOWN

ALL INFORMAT

HEREIN

213.d

FCIM.

Walea

FROM SAC MIAMI

251030

DECKASSIFICATION. 10|25/29-==

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES; IS-CUBA. RE TELEPHONE CALLS

OCTOBER 24 FROM ASSISTANT DIRECTOR BELMONT OF BUREAU AND

FROM SAC TEAGUE TO ASSISTANT DIRECTOR BELMONT. ON EVENING

OCTOBER 24 FOLLOW

NG PERSONS INTERVIEWED AT 120 SW 71 AVENUE,

MIAMI,

PEDRO LU

FORMER CHIEF OF CUBAN AIR FORCE

(FAR); HIS BROTHER MARÇOS DÍAZ LANZ FORMER INSPECTOR GENERAL

AND ASSISTANT TO PEDRO IN FAR; RICARDO LORIE VALLS, FORMER

JULY 26 MOVEMENT UNDERGROUND MOVEMENT LEADER IN MIAMI; FRANK

ANTHONY STURGIS, AKA FRANK FIORINI, US CITIZEN FORMER UNDER

GROUND MEMBER JULY 26 MOVEMENT IN MIAMI; AND CARLOS ECHOGOYEN,

FORMER MEMBER FAR AND CLOSE ASSOCIATE ABOVE PERSONS. AT OUTSET

ORIGINAL COPY FILED

ids

OF INTERVIEWS ALL WERE INFORMED OF THEIR RIGHTS. PEDRO LUIS DIAZ

LANZ CONFIRMED INFORMATION FURNISHED BY HIM OCTOBER 22 LAST. HE

Exempt tom Cu

Date o: Deulas

FURNISHED FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL INFORMATION. LEAFLET DROPPING

FLIGHT OF OCTOBER 21 LAST WAS JOINT ENTERPRISE OF ABOVE PERSONS

UNDER LEADERSHIP PEDRO DIAZ ON BEHALF OF 26 OF JULY ANTI COMMUNIST

MOVEMENT, BUT NOT WITH SPECIFIC KNOWLEDGE OF MOVEMENT. PEDRO

DIAZ PLANNED INCIDENT. RECEIPT OF INFORMATION CONCERNING ABBEST

BY FIDEL CASTRO OF MAJOR HUBERTO MATOS CAUSED DIAZ TO MOVE UP

DATE AND CHANGE TARGET FROM CAMAGUEY TO HAVANA. PURPOSE OF

LEAFLET DROPPING FLIGHT WAS TO PREPARE CUBAN PUBLIC OPINION IN

FAVOR OF 26 OF JULY ANTI CASTRO MOVEMENT AND TO EXPOSE THE CASTRO

APPROES

IASt AGENCIES

-1566

AND FI

CING

ANYT

SSTP

CONDE

War. Nosed (845) 89403

-DATE

55 NOV 4

1959

f the intelligence contained in the above message

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptoe

1105-707

NOT RECORDED

141 NOV 2 1959

isseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

systems.

NW 54460 DooId: 32303890

Page 4

---

## Page 5

1 (Rev. 2-9-59)

DECODED COPY

Radio

KXX

Teletype

Mr. Tolson -

Mr. Belmont

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. McGuire

Mr. Mohr -

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tamm

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman

Miss Gandy

PAGE FOR FIRTY SEC, MIAMI 251330

ANYTHING TO FURTHER EMBRASS US GOVERNMENT. STATES HE MADE ONLY

ABOVE FLIGHT AND KNOVS NOTHING RE ALLEGED LEAFLETS BEING DROPPED

SINCE. FOLLOWING ARE INCIDENTS REPORTED BY MM 539-9 TENDING TO

SHOW DESTRE AND ATTEMPTS OF CASTRO. GOVERNMENT TO DISCREDIT US

THROUGH CASTRO GOVERNMENT ENGINEERED AND PLANNED INCIDENTS. UNDER

NO CONDITIONS SHOULD ANY OF FOLLOWING BE RELEASED TO PRESS Me

CONDITIONS SHOULD ANY OF FOLLOMING DE RELEASED TO PRESS, AS TO DO

SO WOULD MOST CERTAINLY PLACE INFORMANT'S LEFE IN IMMEDIATE

JEOPARDY, IF FURNISHED TO OUTSIDE, AGENCIES, IT SHOULD BE DONE

UNDER THESE CONDITIONS ONLY SEPTEMBER 18, 1959, INFORMANT WENT

TO HAVANA GUBA AND WAS MET AT AIRPORT BY FERNANDO COBA, SGT. CUBAN

POLICE. ON SEPTEMBER 19, 1959% COBA TOLE INFORMANT THAT CHIEF OF (U

POLICE ALMEIJERAS GAVE HIM $1,000 IO GET RAFAEL DEL PINO TO CUBA.

IT. BEING NOTED BEL PINO PUBLICALLY INDICATED HIMSELF TO BE AN

ANTI CASTRO LEADER AT MIAMI AND SUBSEQUENTLY WAS SEIZED IN CUBA

JULY 25, 1959, AFTER HIS AIRPLANE LANDED ON HIGHWAY OUTSIDE HAVANA.

COBA TOLO BEL RINO WHILE IN MIAMI HE WAS LOOKING FOR A PILOT TO

FLY TO CUBA AND RETURN WITH ALIEN TO MIAMI. DEL PINO VOLUNTEERED

FOR THE JOB. TWO PREVIOUS ATTEMPTS WERE MADE TO KIDNAP DEL PINO

BY VIOLENCE WHICH FAILED. ON SEPTEMBER 20, 1959, ALMEIJERAS TOLD

INFORMANT HE WOULD LIKE LATTER TO SET UP AN EXPEDITION IN MIAMI

CONSISTING OF 100 MEN. ARMS AND A BOAT, AND TO EFFECT A LANDING

AT A PLACE DESIGNATED IN CUBA WHERE THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT WOULD

SEIZE THE INVADERS. ALMEIJERAS SAID HE WOULD BE SATISFIED IF HE

COULD SEIZE 20 MEN. HE SAID HE WANTED TO EFFECT THE SAME TYPE

OF INCIDENT THAT WAS CARRIED OFF BY WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN ON

OR ABOUT AUGUST 8, 1959. SAME DATE INFORMANT, ALMETJERAS, COBA

AND THREE BODYGUARDS WENT TO RAUL CASTRO,S HEADQUARTERS WHERE

RAUL CASTRO CONFIRMED ALMEIJERAS PLAN. FOR INFORMANT TO BRING AN

INVASION GROUP • INTO CUBA. RAUL SHOWED GREAT INTEREST IN THIS AND

MADE ARRANGEMENTS WITH INFORMANT TO USE COBA AS HIS HAVANA CONTACT,

DESIGNATED A PRIVATE AIRPORT FOR USE BY INFORMANT TO ENTER AND

DEPART CUBA AND INFORMANT WAS FURNISHED AN ADDRESS TO BE USED IN

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside-the-Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 54460 DooId: 32303890 Page 5

---

## Page 6

: (Rev. 2-9-59)

DECODED COPY

Radio

xx Teletype

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. McGuire

Mr. Mohr -

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tamm

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman

Miss Gandy _

PAGE FIVE FROM SAC, MIAMI

251030

HAVANA AS A MAIL DROP. DURING THE SAME CONVERSATION ALMEIJERAS

AND. RAUL CASTRO EXHIBITED INTEREST IN THE POSSIBLITY OF THE

ASSASSINATION OR KIDNAPPING OF ESTEBAN VENTURA, FORMER LT. COL.

CUBAN NATIONAL POLICE, IN EXILE MIAMA. SEPTEMBER 28, 1959

MM 639-S WAS IN CUBA AND MET WITH FERNANDO COBA AND EFIGENIO

ALMEIJERAS CHIEF CUBAN NATIONAL POLICE. LATTER INDIVIDUALS IN

CONVERSATION GAVE INDICATIONS THERE ARE CUBAN AGENTS IN MIAMI

INVESTIGATING BATISTIANOS. ALMEIJERAS WAS CONSIDERING SENDING

SOMEONE TO MIAMI EITHER ASSASSIANTE. OR KINAP ESTEBAN VENTURA.

ALMEIJERAS UP TO THIS TIME HAB DENIED PERMISSION OF HIS PERSONAL

BODYGUARDS TO CARRY OUT MISSION AGAINST VENTURA. ON OCTOBER 10,l

1959 MM 639-S WAS IN HAVANA CUBA AND CONVERSED WITH EFIGENIO

ALMEIJERAS WHO AGAIN DISCUSSED WITH INFORMANT HIS DESIRE THAT

INFORMANT LEAD EXPEDITION FROM THE US TO CUBA AND AGAIN EXPRESSED

A GREAT DESIRE TO SEIZE THIS EXPEDITION UPON ITS ARRIVAL IN CUBA.

ON ABOUT OCTOBER 20, 1959, MM 639-S RECEIVED A TELEPHONE CALL

FROM FERNANDO COBA WHO WAS CALLING FROM CUBA. COBA HAD PREVIOUSLY

CALLED THE GREEN MANSIONS MOTEL IN AN EFFORT TO CONTACT LYNN BAIR

A MIAMI PILOT ENGAGED IN ALIEN SMUGGLING. BAIR HAD MOVED AND COBA

COULD NOT LOCATE HIM, COBA TOLD INFORMANT TO OFFER PROPOSITION

TO BAIR WHICH WOULD INVOLVE DELIVERING EVELIO ALPIZAR: PEREZ TO

CUBA. ALPIZAR FORMER CUBAN AIR FORCE PILOT, NOW ENGAGED IN ALIEN

AND GUN SMUGGLING AND WORKING FOR ROLANDO MASFERRER, FORMER CUBAN

SENATOR RESIDING IN MIAMI. THIS WOULD BE SAME SITUATION AS WHEN

COBA: DELIVERED DEL PINO. COBA OFFERED THIS ASSIGNMENT. TO INFORMANT

I the intelligence contained in the above

message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 54460 DooId: 32303890 Page 6

---

## Page 7

' (Rev, 2-9-59)

DECODED COPY

Radio

Teletype

PAGE SIX FROM SAC, MIAMI 251030

CHO DECLINED. ON

EVENING OCTOBER 24 MM 639-$ ADVISED

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. McGuire

Mr. Mohr -

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tamm

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman

Miss Gandy

HAD CONFERENCE OCTOBER 23 WITH EFIGENIO ALMEIJEIRAS, CHIEF CUBAN

NATIONAL POLICE, HAVANA, AND FRANCISCO COBA, SERGEANT IN CUBAN

POLICE. ALMEIJEIRAS PROPOSEO TO INFORMANT THAT HE APPROACH

FROMER CUBAN SEANTOR ROLANDO MASFERRER OR SOME OTHER ANTI CASTRO

LEADER OF PROMINENCE IN MIAMI, ANO OFFER TO PILOT A BOMB CARRYING

PLANE FROM MINT RIE CUBA FOR PURPOSE BONSING HAVANA. THAT THFOR

MANI SHOULU CONTESE TO PROCURE SOMBS WITH US GOVERNMENT MARKIMES

AND UPON ARRIVAL IN CUBA MAKE LANDING ON STRIP 25 MILES WEST OF

HAVANA WHERE BOMBS WILL BE TURNED OVER TO ALMEIJEIRAS. CUBAN

GOVERNMENT WILL THEN MAKE PRESS RELEASE CLAIMING THAT MIAMI BASED

PLANE DROPPED BOMBS OVER CUBA AND. WILL OFFER AS PROOF ONE OR MORE

BOMBS BEARING US MARKINGS WHICH THEY WILL CLAIM WERE DUDS. OTHER

BOMBS WILL BE EXPLODED AND FRAGMENTS OF SAME OFFERED AS

ADDITIONAL

PROOF. ALMEIJEIRAS DISCLOSED THAT PURPOSE OF THIS HOAX I5 FOR

PROPAGANDA AGAINST US STATE DEPARTMENT IN ORDER TO FORCE US ACTION

AGAINST ANTI CASTRO EXILES RESIDING IN US. ALMEJEIRAS DESIRED

THIS PLAN TAKE PLACE OCTOBER 26 AND HE DESCRIBED IT AS BEING

HIGHLY IMPORTANT TO CUBAN GOVERNMENT, ALMEIJEIRAS ALSO TOLD

INFORMANT THAT SEVERAL HAND GRENADES WERE DROPPED BY LEAFLET

DROPPING TWO ENGINED PLANE WMICH FLEW OVER HAVANA OCTOBER 21

LAST. HE SAID THAT ANOTHER PLANE FLEW OVER HAVARA SAME EVENING

BUT CUBAN GOVERNMENT DID NOT POSESS DESCRIPTIVE DATA. INFORMANT

STATED ALEX HERNANDEZ DISCLOSED HE VANTED NO PART IN ABOVE PLAN

PROPOSED BY ALMEIJEIRAS. POI CHARLES WILLIAM HORMEL RECONTACTED

STATES HE IS WILLING TO TESTIFY. HOWEVER, POINTED OUT HORMEL'S

INFORMATION HEARSAY HE STATES HE ARRIVED AT REMMERT WARNER

FIRPORT, POMPANO, FLORIDA ABOUT 11:20 PM OCTOBER 21 LAST, WENT

TO AIRPORT OFFICE WHERE HE PASSED TIME OF DAY WITH NIGHTWATCHMAN.

WHILE TALKING, THEY HEARD NEWS BROADCAST OF AIR RAID AND DROPPING

OF LEAFLETS OVER HAVANA. NIGHTWAICHMAN COMMENTED THAT B-25 AT

COMES

_If the intelligence, contained in the above message is to

be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

rotoct-the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 54460 DooId: 32303890

Page 7

---

## Page 8

4-41 (Rev, 2-9-59)

DECODED COPY

Radio

CONFOENIAL

LXX

Teletype

Mr. Tolson-

Mr. Belmont

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. McGuire

Mr. Mohr -

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tamm

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room -

Mr. Holloman

Miss Gandy

PAGE SEVEN FROM SAC, MIAMI 251030

AIRPORT MIGHT HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN MATTER; THAT IT HAD LEFT

ABOUT 5 PM AND RETURNED ABOUT 9 PM. THAT DATE. HORMEL ASKED WHO

HAD PILOTED PLANE AND NIGHTWATCHMAN TOLD HIM PEDRO DIAZ LANZ.

THEREAFTER HORMEL WENT OUT TO PLANE AND TOOK DOWN SERIAL NUMBER.

THEREAFTER CAME TO MIAMI AND FURNISHED INFO TO FBI. INFO BUREAU,

HORMEUPRESENTLY UNDER INDICTMENT ON ATU CHARGE TRANSPORTING ARMS

BY CAR, INVESTIGATION CURRENTLY UNDERBAY TO IDENTIFY NIGHT-

WATCHMAN ABOVE AT WHICH TIME HIS WILLINGNESS AND AVAILABILITY

TO TESTIFY WILL BE DETERMINED. DR. ALCIDES DE LOS REYES UNAVAIL-

ABLE FOR INTERVIEW NIGHT OCTOBER 24, BUT WILL BE CONTACTED

OCTOBER 25 AND ASKED RE HIS AVAILABILITY AND WILLINGNESS TO TESTIFY.

RE ALLEGED DROPPING OF LEAFLETS OVER HAVANA REPORTED BY PRESS

OCTOBER 24, DADE COUNTY DEPARTMENT PUBLIC SAFETY RECEIVED ANONYMOUS

TELEPHONE CALL APPROXIMATELY 8:40 PM OCTOBER 24 FROM INDIVIDUAL

ALLEGING PLANE BEARING LEAFLETS DESTINED FOR CUBA WOULD TAKE OFF

FROM 8TH STREET AIRPORT AT 10 PM. AUTHORITIES GAVE COVERAGE TO

TAMIAMI AIRPORT LOCATED SOUTHWEST 8TH STREET MIAMI WITH NEGATIVE

RESULTS. NO OTHER INFO DEVELOPED RE THIS.: OCTOBER 24, 8 PM

NEWS BROADCAST REPORTED LEARING THROUGH SOURCES IN HAVANA, CUBA

THAT CUBAN GOVERNMENT WAS ASKING FOR EXTRADITION OF PEDRO DIAZ

LANZ TO CUBA. INVESTIGATION CONTINUING AT AIRPORT, POMPANO BEACH

TO VERIFY STATEMENTS OF LANZ ET AL SET OUT ABOVE. BUREAU WILL

BE ADVISED RESULTS OCTOBER 25, PM.

RECEIVED:

11:51 AM TELETYPE

11:53 AM CODING UNIT

BLH

ORIG--MR. BELMONI FOR DIRECTOR

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is supgested that it be suitabl

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

HH

54460 DooId: 32303890 Page 8

---

