# docid-32304828

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/14/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10286-10458

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

[Restricted]

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection

act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 54463 Date: 10-12-2017

DATE:

02/23/1965

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CC, ACA, MRR, MAB, CUBAN EXILES, MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS : INC LHM

Nt 54163 DocId: 32304828

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

DIRECTOR, FEI

SECRETSAC, WEN YORK 105 2ECT

COUNT

ANTI-CASTRO ACIIVINIES

IS - CUBA

2/23/65

ST

QUerLANd KO

Inclosed herewith are & copies of a LEI

dated and

captioned as above containing information

furnished by NY 4533-S (Overland) on 1/8/05 and 1/20/05S

to SAS W.L. SITIELER and EDUARD J.

MURPHY.

The informart

obtained the instructions as set forth in the IiN from

Vhis Soviet principal, CENNADI A

KAHNSKIKH, lanoma KGB (S

employee at meetings with KAMENSKIKH On 1/7/65) and 1/23/65. CS

KANENsKush's identity has now been set torch in the

enclosed LIv

in order to adequately protect the informant's

securloy.

The

THIS

pertaining to the

b. the Burcau.

1g classified "Secret" as infomation

Overland case

so classified

(5)

DECEASITE

ON

SPS-PR

ALL INTORRATION CONTAINED

HENZIN

VACLASCIFTED

EXONET WH

RE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

MANE 10 CASSIFIER

/EM

SUCCRY WHERE SHOWB

# 211,326

Glassified is SPG Bja/ge

5/22/98 macBeclassify on: 020K/0/3/85

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SL/HSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK)

65: 674568810)

99750

168 FEB 25 1965

SECRET

(4)

ORIGINAL FILED IN

3-Bureau

2-Neu-York

(1 - 134-9120)441 (5)

EJM:nek

(5)

bOL

ENCLOSURE

67 MAR 4

1965

SERIALE

HH 54463

DocId: 32304828

Page 2

---

## Page 3

LITED STATES DEPARTMENT G -JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

n Keply, Please Refer t

scer Yorks, Icw Yort:

File No:

SECRE

February 23, 1965

Interoot of Sovlots

Anti-Castro Activities

SKET

9-16-97

21 ASSIFIED BY 5068 SL2/KSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

SY

PECLASCITI

03

fumished

Soviet Intolligenco Servico in the Unlted States doired to

obtain ony informationwallable on the following organizations:

Alêa 66

Movindento Rovolucionario Popular

Moviniento Renosados Revolucionaziso

Reprecentacion Cubano En El Exilto

It 10 toted that Alfa 66 1g on anti-Tadol

enon sation nose colmonty racerted to en ilia la.

Castro

The Voviniento Revolucionario Popular (MNP)

could be identical tith en anti-sidel Castro organization

calleá tovimento Revolucionario dol Puoblo (IRD) which har.

ito hoodquartero in lioni, Florida.

mine lovimiento Renosadoe Ravolucionario (Unt)

may be luchtical with loviniento Recuperacion Rovoluclonerio

(PER) which 1a an anti-Didol Castro organization hoaded by

(anuel Artine Duesa, President of MAR.

The Reprecentacion Cubana, En El Exilio 16 an

ant Wide Castro orgonization tich headquartero in loni,

Florida,

headed by Jose

"Pepin" Dosch, onor of the Bacarda

Run Company .

PROPERTY OF THE FBI

This docunient contins neither

#211,326

recommendations not conclusions of

Classified ky

15P6 Bja/gal

the FBi.

It is the property of the

FBi and is loaned to your agency; it

ALL INFORUATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCUASSIFIED

EXCEPT WERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Geclassify on:

MADR 10/3/85

and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

/ENCLOSURE

311. INFORMATIOR CONTANE

.!te

i la UNCLASSIFIER

LASHINISE

• WHERE SHOWN

65-67456

GROUP/

Exoludel

from

down w

Heelisa

ivation

automatie

SECREE

54463

DocId: 32304828

Page 3

---

