# docid-32324018

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90024-10042

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-1185

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/26/1963

3

•DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SAM GIANCANA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

TT

v9.1

374

45792 DocId: 32324018 Page 1

---

## Page 2

L

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTI

AUG 2 0 1960

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolco=_

Mr. Beinort

Mr. Morr

Mr. Const

Mr.

Sc.

S

Mr. Di

Mr.

Evan'r

Mr.

Gale

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivax

Vr.

have"

Vir. Partie.

Te'o, Mac.

Miss

Fole:

1Size Con

NW 45792

URGENT 8-26-63 0

9-17 PM EST

RW

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI 192-3171/, SAC, CHICAGO /92-349/,

SAC, NEW YORK 192-793/

NEW

YORK VIA WASHINGTON

ALL INCARMATION CO

ANEN

FROM

SAC, MIAMI 192-1701

HERE

SAN GIANCANA, AKA., AR.

DAT 4/23/84/S /SP5RÕO/BUY

RE NEW YORK TEL AUG. THIRTEEN, LAST•

JR. PAREN• PROTECT END PAREN•, A FT. LAUDERDALE

AUTO SALESMAN, ADVISED THIS DATE THAT SAM GIANCANA HAD DEPARTED

THE MIAMI AREA ON AUG. TWENTYTWO, LAST OSTENSIBLY FOR CHICAGO.

STATED THAT PHYLLIS MCGUIRE WAS STAYING WITH HER SISTER,

CRIS MCGUIRE, AT CRIS-APARTMENT IN FT. LAUDERDALE AND WAS IN

POOR HEALTH INASMUCH AS HER NERVES WERE VERY BAD. HE ADVISED

HE DID NOT KNOW OF ANY PLANS GIANCANA HAD TO RETURN TO FT.

LAUDERDALE IN THE IMMEDIATE FUTURE. HE STATED THAT SUBJECT AND

PHYLLIS SPENT THEIR ENTIRE TIME IN FLA. AT.

COUNTRY CLUB, DAVIE, FLA•, BUT AFTER THEIR WHE

DISCOVERED BY THE FBI AND LOCAL NEWSPAPER REPORTERS, THEY

25 AUG 28 1963

AVOIDED THE PUBLIC ROOMS OF THE CLUB AND USED IT ONLY TO SLEEP IN. U

END PAGE ONE

D SEP 3 1963 FAT:

DocId: 32324018 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

OTHER 4

ADVISED THAT GIANCANA USED

SIXTYTHREE

CADILLAC FOR TRANSPORTATION AFTER GETTING RID OF THE LOCAL

RENTAL CAR. THE MCGUIRE SISTERS, SUBJECT ANDL

_PLAYED

GOLF EVERY DAY ON LOCAL COURSES, INCLUDING THE PLANTATION GOLF

CLUB AND FT. LAUDERDALE GOLD CLUB, FT. LAUDERDALE, FLAG, THE

DORAL COUNTRY CLUB, MIAMI AND THE PINE TREE CLUB, BOCA RATON.

ADVISED GIANCANA RIDICULED NEWS REPORTS THAT HE WAS MIXED

UPON BAHAMA GAMBLING AND ALSO SCOFFED AT REPORTS THAT HE

CONTROLLED GAMBLING IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, ASSERTING HE

WOULD NOT TOUCH IT AS IT WAS A LOSING PROPOSITION. U

ADVISED THAT HE WAS WITH GLANCÃA IN LAS VEGAS SOME

MONTHS AGO AND GIANCANA WAS TREATED ROYALLY AT ALL THE HOTELS .

GABLING SPOIS. HE QTATED THAT FRATK SINATRA, DEAN MARTIN

AND EDDIE FISHER MADE A BIG FUSS OVER SUBJECT AND TREATED HIM

WITH DEFERENCE. U

ADVISED GIANCANA IN COMMENTING ON HIS CHICAGO SUIT

AGAINST THE BUREAU STATED HE STARTED IT AS A QUOTE GAG END

QUOTE AND NEVER EXPECTED IT TO BE AS SUCCESSFUL AS IT WAS AND

WAS VERY PLEASED AT THE RESULTS. HE STATED GIANCANA GLEEFULLY

SAID HE CAUSED THE BUREAU TO QUOTE COP THE FIFTH END QUOTE WHEN

THE SAC, REFUSED TO ANSWER THE COURT-S QUESTIONS. U

END PAGE TWO

NW 45792 DocId: 32324018 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAGE THREE

STATED HE WOULD COOPERATE WITH THE BUREAU AND WOULD

ADVISE WHEN GIANCANA WAS IN TOWN WHEN CONTACTED BY BUAGENTS.

WILL BE CONSIDERED AS A PCI AND APPROPRIATE FD THREE

ZERO TWOS WILL BE FURNISHED CHICAGO. "

END AND ACK PLSW

WA

10-25 PM OK FBI WAWS R RELAY.

TU D

CG 9-25 PM OK FBI CG ADT

TU DSC

OTHER 4

" 1101,33

NW 45792 DocId: 32324018

Page 4

---

