# docid-32292291

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10209-10067

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-383

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES: •

SUBJECTS :

12/14/1961

GAL, ASSOC, GAMBLING, HORSE RACING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/28/1998

OPÈNING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292291

Page 1

376

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennety Assassination Records Collection

DATE: 11-14-2017

of 1992 +

PISt

Mr. Tolson

DEFERRED

82-14-51

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTICE

DEC 1 4 1961

9-24 PM ELETYPE

Mr.

• Belmont -

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoat

Mr. Evanse

Mr. Malons

DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

sullivan:

Mr. Taver

FROM SAG, CHICAGO 192-3731

1 P

Mr. Trotter-

Tele. Room.

GUS ALEX, AKA, ARO DAILY SUMMARY. CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DA SHE DENISED

THAT HE HAD LEARNED FROM LESLIE KRUSE, CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF ALEX, THAT

GAMBLING IS PRESENTLY CURTAILED IN BOTH THE CITIES AND COUNTIES

SURROUNDING CHICAGO. INFORMANT SAID THAT ANY OPERATIONS IN CONNECTION

WITH GAMBLING GOING ON AT THE PRESENT TIME ARE SMALL AND ARE OPERATED

ON A QUOTE SNEAK BASIS UNQUOTE. THE ONLY OPERATION TO INFORMANT-S

KNOWLEDGE IN SO FAR AS BOOKING HORSES GOING ON AT THE PRESENT TIME

WAS THE HILLTOP LOUNGE LOCATED ON THE FAR SOUTH SIDE OF CHICAGO AND IT IS

OPERATED BY TWO BROTHERS, PETE AND SAM, LAST NAME UNKNOWN TO INFORMANT.

HE SAID THIS PLACE IS OPEN BETWEEN ELEVEN A. MO AND TWO POLMO AND THAT

THE BETS ARE WRITTEN ON SLIPS. INFORMANT STATED THAT TELEPHONES ARE

NOT BEING USED TO TRANSMIT RACING INFORMATION. INFORMANT SAID BENTLEY

MURRAY OF THE BENTLEY MURRAY COMPANY HAS STOPPED PRINTING QUOTE HARD

CARDS UNQUOTE AND OTHER GAMBLING INFORMATION AND BELIEVED THAT THE

COMPANY WAS NOW OUT OF BUSINESS. HE SAID THIS IS A RESULT OF THE NEW

FEDERAL LEGISLATION THAT WAS RECENTLY ENACTED. INFORMANT SAID THAT ALL

GAMBLERS IN CHICAGO AND VICINITIES ARE EXTREMELY CAREFUL ABOUT DOING

BUSINESS ACROSS STATE LINES. INFORMATION HAS PREVIOUSLY BEEN RECEIVED

383

FROM

OTHER SOURCES THAT ALEX AND

EX•115 AS SEE:AFES ARE GREATLY CONGERNED E

OVER

THE FACE, THAT THEIR

REGENUED ROPH GAMBLING OPERATIONS HAS RECENTLY

N* DEG 19 1968

BEEN GREATLY CURTAILED. ALEX ARMIE AND DANCEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES

END AND AC

PLS

bad

20-29-PM LOR BASA RAC

ote)

DocId: 32292291 Page 2

---

