# docid-32286744

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10196-10020

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-972

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/18/1963

1•

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, TESUR, WHEREABOUTS, ACT, ASSOC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32286744

Page 1

44

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

2/18/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

FROM : SAC, CHICAGO (92-349)

STAINED!

ALL I:

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, aka

AR

HERA

DATE VEINE SERPSLE

Re Las Vegas airtel to Bureau dated 2/7/63 and

Bureau airtel to Chicago dated 2/15/63. (U)

"Brucie," mentioned

by

is unknown to this

office.

Negotiations regarding

the Stardust came to the

attention of this office during the fall of 1960 from

CG 6343-C*.

During this period,

were in constant contact with

HURRAY HUMPHREYS, et 21,

I who was a central figure

in the negotiations. (U)

Concerning GIANCANA 's whereabouts and activities

during the pertinent period, various sources, including

CG 6486-C* advised that GIANCANA was definitely in Chicago

during the period February 2 through February 7, 1963,

and immediately prior to that period, advised his associates

he had been in Florida and was in contact with WILLIAM DADDANO

It is possible that

was in contact with

GIANCANA either in Chicago or in Florida. (u)

Concerning PHYLLIS MC GUIRE,_ according to CG 6486-C*,

GIANCANA advised of the fact that the Internal Revenue Service

has been attempting to learn whether or not he and MC GUIRE

are married. It appeared from the brief conversation that

they are not..

Further, GIANCANA has been observed during the

past two weeks in company with a Chicago girl friend named

BRIGIT CLARK, and has been seen with other unidentified

females. (U)

92-5171-922

1 = Cas Vegas (92-4625X502

REC 42

Bureau

1 - Chicag94(92-349),

REH: mhh

3 FEB

1063

1/2

FEB 20 1963

Approved:

Specia

45792 DocId: 32286744

Sent

Agent

Page

harge

OTHER 4

---

