# docid-32333598

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90107-10181

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-117222-46

Document Information

• ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 03/28/1963

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

COMMANDOS L 66

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF USCG

COMMENTS: TT, REFERRED TO USCG

. 9.1

NW 45773 DocId: 32333598 Page 1

86

---

## Page 2

82-0324

-1 la(Rey.: 10-16-62)

SECRE Per

PA # 90

15 i

DECODED

COPY

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TÔ

# 13.3

A ME

INITIALS PAS

C

drass, fud per

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

losen

Sullivan

сід L. Hge

10/1/84

AND FIELD

VETCES

RELEASE UF CIA INFORMATION

stavel!

ALADVISED DY

FUTING

CL ASIN THIS DOCUMENT. K/ 3-19-98

Trotter

Tele. Room

Radio

SLIP (S)

Holmes

# Teletype

Gandy

DATE

12

SIEGASSIPED BY STeed 500/165 e

LITZED

URGENT

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC MIAMI

3-28-63

5:21 AM ESTA 3. 20: 98 JES JO

DATE:

NEUTRALITY

12-5-80

COMMANDOS L 66, RA-CUBA, NM. Classified

BY

.4.2 2

REBUTELCALLS TODAY.

02001

DATE OF REVIEW

3.28.833

THIS MORNING ELIAS D. REES, CIA

AMI, ADVISED

page + para / sorclassifiable

HE HAD RECEIVED INFO OF A SUCCESSFUL OPERATION BY L 66

per Coast Friard

FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED AS PROMINENT INDIVIDUAL WHO IS

Setter 3-8-83

SP-IG5K|RBS

EXILE LEADER, WHO RECEIVED THIS INFO FROM FORMER SHIPMATE

4-1-87

WHO HAS EXCELLENT CONTACTS ALONG MIAMI WATERFRONT AND

111.

PERSONALLY ACQUAINTED WITH TWO MEMBERS OF L 66 GROUP. HER!

07MA7

REES SAID ACCORDING TO HIS SOURCE L 66 LEADERS AT SEA

EXCH

RADIOED THAT THEY HAD ACCOMPLISHED THEIR MISSION PERFECTLY.

CIA SOURCE PREVIOUSLY HAD

REPORTED THAT L 66 WAS PLANNING

ATTACK AGAINST CUBA.

и)

SUBSEQUENTLY REES STATED ADDITIONAL INFO RECEIVED

THAT THIS ACTION UTILIZED ABOUT 100 POUNDS OF NON PLASTIC S

"PENTA..." IN BOW OF BOAT, SOURCE HAD PREVIOUSLY REPORTED

L 66 WAS INTERESTED IN LAUNCHING

SHIP.

INTERESTED IN LAUNCHING TORPEDO AGAINST A DOCKED S

REC- 67

IMM 492 STEPORTED THIS MORNING THAT RADIO RELOT 4252-1-46

BROADCAST FROM MIAMI RADIO

STATION WMET, ISSUED NEWSCAS APR IO 1963/

DATELINED NEW YORK THAT GROUP OF EXILES BELONGING TO

COMMANDO L, A SUBSIDIARY OF APPHA 66, HAD SHOT AND SUNK

Bracketed nito in lite

3839865500e

stanis fi excite

cc fant

11 che intelligence contained lid the above message is to be disseminated outside

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

Camel 3/29/63190

SCONF

Sis suggested that it be suitably

NW.

45773

DốcIl: 32333598

•Page__2

---

## Page 3

4-41, (Rev. 10-16-$2)

DECODED COPY

SECRE

1

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

CONX

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

• Radio

‹ Teletype

PAGE TWO FROM MIAMI 280300

A SMALL SHIP OFF PORT OF CAIBARIEN, CUBA. THIS MESSAGE

EMPHASIZED THIS ATTACK WAS NOT IDENTICAL WITH ONE MADE

OFF PORT OF ISABELAADE SAGUA ON NIGHT OF MARCH 18 LAST

BY ALPHA 66.& U

AT 3:30 PM TODAY MM

35

S ADVISED HE HAD JUST TALKED'

TO PEDRO AND MARCOS ADIAZ

CANZ WHO REPORTEDLY ARE PREPARING

A SEPARATE HIT AND RUN RAID ON CUBA. MARCOS TOLD HIM HE

HAD JUST RECEIVED TELEPHONE CALL FROM THE CUBAN WHO HAD

CONSTRUCTED A HOMEMADE TORPEDO WHICH HAD BEEN USED LAST

NIGHT. BY A RAIDING SHIP WHICH SANK A RUSSIAN VESSEL WHILE

IT WAS LOADLAG SUGAR AT CAIBARIEN HARBOR, SANTA CLARA

PROVINCES CUBA. MARCOS TOLD INFORMANT THE TORPEDO CON-

TAINED C-4 EXPLOSIVES AND WEIGHED 100 POUNDS. MARCOS

SAID THIS TORPEDO WAS MADE IN MIAMI BY A CUBAN WHO HÄS

LOENTITY OF THIS CUBAN TO THE INFORMANT.

SOME CONNECTIONS WITH CIA. MARCOS DID NOT DECLOSE

MARCOS ALSO RELATED THAT A NEWSPAPER MAN, AN

ANDREW

GEORGE (OF LIFE MAGAZINE), WAS ON THE RAIDING BOAT

MAS THE ORGANIZATION RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ATTACK. AND L

FOR INFO BUREAU, IT SHOULD BE NOTED CIA HAS IN THE

PAST TRAINED AND UTILIZED MANY CUBAN

EXILES FOR RAIDS

INVOLVING USE OF EXPLOSIVES.

MM 776 S ADVISED TODAY ACCORDING

TO RUMORS IN THE

CUBAN COLONY COMMANDO L 66 ALLEGEDLY HAD AFFIXED

MONEY ENTIAI

SEXRET

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45773 DocId: 32333598

Page 3

---

## Page 4

4-4 i (Rev. 10-16-1-2)

DECODED COPY

SECRE

CONFXIENT

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

• Radio

* Teletype

PAGE THREE FROM MIAMI

280300

HIGHLY EXPLOSIVE BOMB OR TORPEDO TO NOSE OF SMALL SPEEDY

CRAFT WHICH WAS CONTROLLED BY REMOTE CONTROL FROM LARGER

SHIP A SHORT DISTANCE AWAY AND WAS DRIVEN AT HIGH

INTO SIDE OF RUSSIAN FREIGHTER NEAR CAIBARIEN.

PSI UNDER DEVELOPMENT LUIS CARLOS PINO COUTO,

FORMER OFFICIAL IN CHARGE OF EMBARKATIONS IN CUBA,

CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH VIOLENTLY ANTI CASTRO GROUPS,

BUT WITH WHOM INSUFFICIENT CONTACT HAS BEEN HAD TO ESTAB-

LISH RELIABILITY, CONFIRMED ABOVE AND STATED HE HAD HEARD

COMMANDO L 66 HAD PLANNED TO RIG DYNAMITE TO PROW OF SMALL

SPEEDY BOAT

BE DRIVEN BY REMOTE CONTROL INTO A RUSSIAN

BOAT.

CU.

LUC LAXFERNANDEZ,?

WIFE OF SANTIAGO JUAN ANTONIO

ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ, ADVISED HER HUSBAND LEFT ON HIS YACHT,

THE PALISAN," ABOUT 15 DAYS AGO. IT IS NOTED SANTIAGO

'ALVAREZ IS CUBAN MEDICAL DOCTOR AND FORMER SENATOR WHO

PARTICIPATED IN ILL FATED INVASION OF CUBA, APRIL 1961,

WITH HIS BOAT/ THE ALISAN.

LMM 639 S ADVISED THE ALISAN FREQUENTLY ENTERNS AND

DEPARTS FROM U.S. AND ON NUMBEROUS OCCASIONS HAS BEEN ON

MILITARY TYPE EXPEDITIONS IN THE CAY SAL BANK

OPERATING AGAINST THE NORTH SHORE OF CUBAJ& 01) AERNANDEZ

ADVISED THE ALISAN LEFT ABOUT 15 DAYS AGO FOR ANGUILA KEY,

CAY SAL BANK, BAHAMAS, AND IS EXPECTED TO RETURN THIS

WEEK, SHE SAID HER SON, SANTIAGO ALVAREZ JR., PRESENTLY

3

SEXRET

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45773 DocId: 32333598 Page 4

---

## Page 5

4.4I. (Rev: 10-16-62)

DECODED COPY

SEXIET

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

• Radio

** Teletype

PAGE FOUR FROM MIAMI

280300

IN U.S. ARMY, FORMERLY PARTICIPATED WITH ALPHA 66 IN

RAID IN OCTOBER LAST. SHE DENIED HER HUSBAND HAS ANY

ACTIVITY WITH L 66 OR ANTONIO CUESTAR

ROBERTO PALLE, ALLOF WHOM ARE ACTIVE LEADERS IN

і 66.А. л

TODAY LT. AARON ROGERS, ASST. INTELLIGENCE OFFICER,

U.S. COAST GUARD, ADVISED THAT ON MARCH 24 LAST THE USCG

OBSERVED THE ALISAN AT AN UNNAMED ISLAND LOCATED BETWEEN

ANGUILA KEY AND DAMASK KEY IN THE CAY SAL GROUR AND

APPROXIMATELY 70 AIR MILES FROM CAIBARIEN, CUBA. EIGHT

MEN, SOME CUBAN IN APPEARANCE, WERE OBSERVED ON BOARD

THE ALISAN WHICH IS APPROXIMATELY 50 FEET LONG AND OB-

SERVED TO BE EQUIPPED WITH A RADIO AERIAL. THE ALISAN

HAD IN TOW A SMALL TENDER AND WHAT APPEARED TO BE A

SPEED BOAT ABOUT 20 FEET LONG WITH WINDSHIELD, INBOARD

MOTOR AND RADIO EQUIPPED. LETTERS WHICH APPEARED TO BE

F-82 WERE OBSERVED ON THE BOW OF THE ALISAN. THIS IS

NOT BELIEVED TO BE A US REGISTRATION NUMBER. USCG TOOK

ABOUT FOUR AERIAL PHOTOS OF THIS BOAT WHICH SHOW THE EIGHT

MEN ON BOARD.

AT 5:20.PM TODAY, REES, CIA, ADVISED HE HAD JUST

RECEIVED FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL INFO FROM SOURCE DESCRIBED

AS FORMER CUBAN GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE WHO RECEIVED INFO

FROM AN INDIVIDUAL IN DIRECT CONTACT WITH ALPHA 66.

ACCORDING TO REES, THE L 66 RAID AGAINST A SOVIET SHIP

LOFF CAIBARIEN WAS ACCOMPLISHED BY FIVE MEN UNDER

SEC

CONFIXNTAL

4

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45773 DocId: 32333598 Page 5

---

## Page 6

4-41 (Rey., 10-15-62)

SE

DEC

DED

PY

D

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Radio

* Teletype

PAGE SIX FROM MIAMI

280300

LITTLE PINE KEY, FLA., WHERE MRS. CHALK STATED AN ANTI

CASTRO INVASION GROUP WAS LOCATED.

IT IS TO BE NOTED THATAONE OF THE PARTICIPANTS IN

THIS ACTION IS KNOWN TO HAVE RETURNED AS YET TO THE

MIAMI AREA AND ABOVE INFO CONTAINS SOME ALLEGATIONS

WHICH ARE OBVIOUSLY INCOMPLETE AND SOMEWHAT INCONSISTENT

AT THIS POINT:

MM 635 S, MM. 639 S, MM 776 S AND MM 492 S ARE

CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH INDIVIDUALS IN VARIOUS ANTI

CASTRO ORGANIZAT I O

AND EACH HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE

INFO IN THE PAST.

• MIAMI INSTITUTING INVESTIGATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH

BUREAU INSTRUCTIONS.

RECEIVED: "

5P-1 G5K/RB6

CC-MR. SULLIVAN

6

SEYET

ree intelline co proll in the are ere is po be is minated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that is be suitably

NW 45773 DocId: 32333598

Page 6

---

## Page 7

v. 10-16-62)

ЯК.

SECRETE

Casper

Callahan

DECODED COPY

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans _

Gale.

FOIs # 90, 105

Rosen.

Sullivan

APPEA

Tavel.

rotter

Tele. Room

Radio

•CIVIL AC

Holmes

E. 0. # 12i

DATE 2/15/85

INITINS IMS

• Teletype

Gandy -

SIL IS 612

URGENT

3-28-63 hatter.

Class

Fred pea CLA

Nolull: 21 AM EST•

5468 510

CF

TO DIRECTOR

(TER)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION.TO

Wo

FROM SAC MIAMI

280300

RELEASE OF CIA MECASA TON ENTIC

/COMMANDOS L 66, RA-CUBA, NM.

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 3-14-98

REBUTELCALLS TODAY.

THIS MORNING ELIAS D. REES, CIA MIAMI, ADVISED

LASSIFIED

HE HAD RECEIVED INFO OF A SUCCESSFUL OPERATION BY L 66

FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED AS PROMINENT INDIVIDUAL WHO IS

iM: EXILE LEADER, WHO RECEIVED THIS INFO FROM FORMER SHIPMATE

¿ WHO HAS EXCELLENT CONTACTS ALONG MIAMI WATERFRONT AND IS

PERSONALLY ACQUAINTED WITH TWO MEMBERS OF L 66 GROUP.

REES SAID ACCORDING TO HIS SOURCE L 66 LEADERS AT SEA

RADIOED THAT THEY HAD ACCOMPLISHED THEIR MISSION PERFECTLY.

CIA SOURCE PREVIOUSLY HAD

REPORTED THAT L 66 WAS PLANNING

ATTACK AGAINST CUBA.

SUBSEQUENTLY REES STATED ADDITIONAL INFO RECEIVED WIE

THAT THIS ACTION UTILIZED ABOUT 100 POUNDS OF NON PLASTIE

"PENTA..." IN BOW OF BOAT. SOURCE HAD PREVIOUSLY REPORTED

f-23

L 66 WAS INTERESTED IN LAUNCHING TORPEDO AGAINST A DOCKED

4925

FORTED THIS MORNING THAT, RADIO 'RELOJ

"'li

•BROADCAST FROM MIAMI RADIO

SMATION WMET,

ISSUED NEWSCAST

DATELINED NEW YORK THAT GROUP OF EXILES BELONGING, TO

ISSi

COMMANDO L, A SUBSIDIARY OF APPHA 66, HAD SHOT AND SUNK

Brackeled into included in mama for Diete

3/29/83 de "Cutio Carto Achuter". Ces

reat AG, DAG ISO

SECKET

12 580

If the intelligence contained in the above"

paraphrased in order to protect the BureautskchaB

tems..

he Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

NW 45773 DocId: 32333598

Page 7

---

## Page 8

4-41 (Rev. 10-16-62)

SECRET

DECODED COPY

CONNIX:

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

• Radio

o Teletype

PAGE TWO FROM MIAMI 280300

A SMALL SHIP OFF PORT OF CAIBARIEN, CUBA. THIS MESSAGE

EMPHASIZED THIS ATTACK WAS NOT IDENTICAL WITH ONE MADE

OFF PORT OF ISABELAADE SAGUA ON NIGHT OF MARCH 18 LAST

BY ALPHA 66.C8

AT 3:30 PM TODAY MM 635 S ADVISED HE HAD JUST TALKED

TO PEDRO AND MARCOS DIAZ LANZ WHO REPORTEDLY ARE PREPARING

A SEPARATE HIT AND RUN RAID ON GUBA. MARCOS TOLD HIM HE

HAD JUST RECEIVED TELEPHONE CALI. FROM THE CUBAN: WHO HAD

CONSTRUCTED: A HOMEMADE TORPEDO WHICH HAD BEEN USED LAST

NIGHT BY A RAIDING SHIP WHICH SANK A RUSSIAN VESSEL WHILE

IT WAS LOADING SUGAR AT. CAIBARIEN HARBOR, SANTA CLARA

PROVINCE, CUBA .. MARCOS TOLD INFORMANT THE TORPEDO CON-

TAINED C-4 EXPLOSIVES AND WEIGHED 100 POUNDS. MARCOS

SAID THIS TORPEDO WAS MADE IN MIAMI BY A CUBAN WHO HAS

SOME CONNECTIONS WITH CIA•, MARCOS DID NOT DISCLOSE

IDENTITY OF THIS CUBAN TO THE INFORMANT. I

(n)

MARCOS ALSO RELATED THAT A NEWSPAPER MAN, ANDREW

ST. GEORGE (OF LIFE MAGAZINE), WAS ON THE RAIDING BOAT

AND TOOK PHOTOS OF THE ACTION. MARCOS SAID COMMANDO L

WAS THE ORGANIZATION RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ATTACK I SAW)

FOR INFO BUREAU, IT SHOULD BE NOTED CIA HAS IN THE

PAST. TRAINED AND UTILIZED MANY CUBAN EXILES FOR RAIDS

INVOLVING USE OF EXPLOSIVES, & STU

MM 776 S ADVISED TODAY ACCORDING-TO RUMORS IN THE

CUBAN COLONY COMMANDO L 66 ALLEGEDLY HAD AFFIXED A

N3D (щ)

CONFIBENTIAL

SECRET

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45773 DocId: 32333598 Page 8

---

## Page 9

(Rev. 10-16-62)

DECODED CUPY

Tolson

SECRET

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Radio

I Teletype

PAGE THREE FROM MIAMI

280300

HIGHLY EXPLOSIVE BOMB OR TORPEDO TO NOSE OF SMALL SPEEDY

CRAFT WHICH WAS CONTROLLED BY REMOTE CONTROL FROM LARGER

SHIP A SHORT DISTANCE AWAY AND WAS DRIVEN AT HIGH SPEED

INTO SIDE OF RUSSIAN FREIGHTER NEAR CAIBARIEN.

xX4)

PSI UNDER DEVELOPMENTL

OTHER 4

FORMER OFFICIAL IN CHARGE OF EMBARKATIONS IN CUBA,

CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH VIOLENTLY ANTI CASTRO GROUPS,

BUT WITH WHOM INSUFFICIENT CONTACT HAS BEEN HAD TO ESTAB-

LISH RELIABILITY, CONFIRMED ABOVE AND STATED HE HAD HEARD

COMMANDO L 66 HAD PLANNED TO RIG DYNAMITE TO PROW OF SMALL

SPEEDY BOAT TO BE DRIVEN BY REMOTE CONTROL INTO A RUSSIAN

BOAT.

LUCIA FERNANDEZ, WIFE OF SANTIAGO JUAN ANTONIO

ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ, ADVISED HER HUSBAND LEFT ON HIS YACHT,

THE "ALISAN, " ABOUT 15 DAYS AGO. IT IS NOTED SANTIAGO.

ALVAREZ IS CUBAN MEDICAL DOCTOR AND FORMER SENATOR WHO.

PARTICIPATED IN ILL FATED INVASION OF CUBA, APRIL 1961,

WITH HIS BOAT, THE ALISAN..:

IMM 639 S ADVISED THE ALISAN FREQUENTLY ENTERES AND

DEPARTS FROM U.S. AND ON NUMBEROUS OCCASIONS HAS BEEN ON

MILITARY TYPE EXPEDITIONS IN THE CAY SAL BAN

AHAMAS;

OPERATING AGAINST THE NORTH SHORE OF CUBA

UCIA FERNANDEZ

ADVISED THE ALISAN LEFT ABOUT 15 DAYS AGO FOR ANGUILA KEY,

CAY SAL BANK, BAHAMAS, AND IS EXPECTED TO RETURN THIS

WEEK, SHE SAID HER SON, SANTIAGO ALVAREZ, JR,, PRESENTLY

CONGIDENTIAL SECRED

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl;

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32

3598.

Pace

---

## Page 10

10-16-62)

SECRET

DECODED COPY

CONEXIL

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan=

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen:

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Holme's

Gandy

Radio

SECR

x Teletype

PAGE FOUR FROM MIAMI

280300

IN U.S. ARMY, FORMERLY PARTICIPATED WITH ALPHA 66 IN

RAID IN OCTOBER LAST. SHE DENIED HER HUSBAND HAS ANY.

ACTIVITY WITH L 66 OR ANTONIO CUESTA, RAMON FONT AND

ROBERTO VALLE, ALLOF WHOM ARE ACTIVE LEADERS IN L 66.00

4°

TODAY LT. AARON ROGERS, ASST. INTELLIGENCE OFFICER,

U.S. COAST GUARD, ADVISED THAT ON MARCH 24 LAST THE USCG

OBSERVED THE ALISAN AT AN UNNAMED ISLAND LOCATED BETWEEN

ANGUILA KEY AND DAMASK KEY IN THE CAY SAL GROUP AND

APPROXIMATELY 70 AIR MILES FROM CAIBARIEN, CUBA. EIGHT

MEN, SOME CUBAN IN APPEARANCE, WERE OBSERVED ON BOARD

THE ALISAN WHICH IS APPROXIMATELY 50 FEET LONG AND OB-

SERVED TO BE EQUIPPED WITH A RADIO AERIAL. THE ALISAN

HAD IN TOW A SMALL TENDER AND WHAT APPEARED TO BE A

SPEED BOAT ABOUT 20 FEET LONG WITH WINDSHIELD, INBOARD

MOTOR AND RADIO EQUIPPED. LETTERS WHICH APPEARED TO BE

F-82 WERE OBSERVED ON THE BOW OF THE ALISAN. THIS IS.

NOT BELIEVED TO BE A 'US REGISTRATION NUMBER. USCG TOOK:

ABOUT FOUR AERIAL PHOTOS OF THIS BOAT WHICH SHOW THE EIGHT

MEN ON BOARD.

AT 5:20 PM TODAY, REES, CIA, ADVISED HE HAD JUST.

RECEIVED FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL INFO FROM SOURCE DESCRIBED

AS FORMER CUBAN GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE WHO RECEIVED INFO.

FROM AN INDIVIDUAL IN DIRECT CONTACT WITH ALPHA 66.

ACCORDING TO REES, THE L 66 RAID AGAINST A SOVIET SHIP

OFF CALBARIEN WAS ACCOMPLISHED BY FIVE MEN UNDER

Z,

NW

CONE

DALLIA

SEARET

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphräsed in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

JocId:32333598 - Page-10-

---

## Page 11

DECODI

€0 p

SEX

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter L

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Radio

ZECHE

PAGE SIX FROM MIAMI

1280300

it Teletype

LITTLE PINE KEY, FLA., WHERE MRS: CHALK STATED AN ANTI

CASTRO INVASION GROUP WAS LOCATED

IT IS TO BE NOTED THAT'ONE OR THE PARTICIPANTS-IN

THIS ACTION IS KNOWN TO HAVE RETURNED AS YET TO THE

MIAMI AREA AND ABOVE INFO CONTAINS SOME ALLEGATIONS

WHICH ARE OBVIOUSLY INCOMPLETE AND SOMEWHAT INCONSISTENT

AT THIS POINT•:

MM 635 S, MM 639 So, MM 776|S. AND MM 492 S ARE

CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH INDIVIDUALS IN VARIOUS ANTI.

_GASTRO ORGANIZATIONS AND EACH HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE

FINFO IN THE PAST: AU)

MIAMI INSTITUTING INVESTIGATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH

BUREAU INSTRUCTIONS.

RECEIVED:

6:15 AM

REM

ORIC: MR. BELMONT FOR DIRECTOR ]

CONFIDENTIAL

ZECUEL

SEXRET

The intelligence contained in the above messäge is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitable

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems

NW 45773 DocId:32333598 Page 11

---

