# docid-32316599

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10350-10041

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 2-1901-95

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

PAGES:

DOES: 07/09/1965

SUBJECTS:

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO; INC LHM

v9.1

NW 45812 DocId: 32316599

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-108-03

NEDY 1982 EDITION

GSA GEN.*REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO!

Memoranaum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (2-1901)

DATE:

JUL 9

1965

FROM

SUBJECT:

SAC, MIAMI (2-380) (P)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

ROBERTO ALEJOS

ARZU

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIONY

IS - GUATEMALA

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

R612-19-97

SID INSI

ReBuairtel to Miami dated 6/25/65. crid, 73-98

Enclosed herewith are 12 copies of a letterhead

memorandum dated and captioned as above.

Copies are being disseminated locally to FAA,

ONI, CIA, G-2, INS, OSI, Border Patrol, Customs, Coast

Guard and State Department, Cuban Affairs.

On June 28, 1965, U. S. Customs, Miami, advised

that agency is continuing investigation in this matter.

is in touch with established sources and informants anc

was going to check airport records, baggage checks and

customs declarations in an attempt

to further identify

LLERENA (ph) mentioned in referenced Bureau airtel.

The Miami Office has no further information / o ‹

identifiable with Col. EDUARDONLLERENA MUELLER. /'C

REVIEWED BY ISNUFK TASK EARGF-1

Key Source - Cuban.

ON

9/9/97 clos

MM T-2 is MM 639-S.

RELEASE IN FULL

. RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

-

MM T-3 is ALIEN, YARBOROUGH, U. S. Customs, Miami.

TNCT OSTREATI, INPORMATION CONTAINED

(Enc-12) (RM)

1623 per

_BISp& MAC/BAT,UTK

a made

1120/77 MC/m

for review at L DInQ by

1

Miami

RJD :s11

(3)

Copy to: CIA/State/RAO /5D

DIA ONI/OSI/ACSI Castons,/ FAAD, Courier

REC-722-1901-95

by routing slip for info.

Date...

ST-118

8 JUL 12 1965

Copy to.

t.

by routing sp

for

Info

date...

H 29196520

By...

NAT. MIR. SEC.

OTHER 4

NW 45812 DocId: 32316599 Page 2

---

## Page 3

UNITEN

TATES DEPARTMENT OF JU

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

NICE

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

2-380

Miami, Florida

JUL 9

1965

RE:

ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU

INTERNAL SECURITY - GUATEMALA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU, a wealthy Guatemalan National

residing in Miami, Florida, during March and April, 1965.

planned an attempt to overthrow the Government of Guatemala:

however, on May 4, 1965, U. S. Customs Agents in Miami con-

fiscated arms which were

to be used in this attempt.

MM T-1, a Cuban exile who

has been involved in

revolutionary activities for the past five years, on June 21,

1965, advised that he had been in contact with ALEJOS and no

additional developments or significant happenings transpired

concerning ALEJOS' possible future plans against the

Guatemalan Government.

ALEJOS did indicate that he would

only need about ten Cuban exiles from the Miami area in con-

nection with his next attempt against the Guatemalan Government.

MM T-2 has been active in Cuban revolutionary

matters for the past six years and on June 22, 1965, advised

of the following

information:

GERALD PATRICK

HEMMING, an irresponsible adventurer

and soldier of fortune, on that

date claimed he had been in

touch with ALEJOS and had attempted to convince him that he,

HEMMING, should be in charge of ALEJOS' military plans and

do the recruiting for ALEJOS' next attempt against Guatemala.

HEMMING said he would attempt to sell ALEJOS' plans to the

Government of Guatemala and

expected a representative of the

-Guatemalan Government

to arrive in Miani in the near future.

On June 28,

1965, MM I-? stated that HEMMING has

not since mentioned ALEJOS

or the Guatemalan representative

and it is doubtful he has had any further contact with

ALEJOS or ever met with a representative of the Guatemalan

Government.

ALL INFORMATION CONTATNAD

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATS 117/91

BYSpSMACGAE

(U7K)

ENCLOSURE*

2-1901-95.

NW 45812 DocId: 32316599 Page 3'

---

