# docid-32302393

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/3/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10281-10113

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-9-12-538

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/28/1964

JEST, CIP, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, RES, TRA, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

02/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

IN 45960

DocId: 32302393

Page 1

---

## Page 2

•5D-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in .

AIRTEL

Via

FBI

Date:

12/28/64

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Bec

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

SÁC, DALLAS, (94-55A-SUB)

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel to Bureau dated 12/21/64.

RE: JAMES HENRY DOLAN aka

AR

(DL 92-292) (DL 166-154)

The Las Vegas Division advised that DOLAN was arrested

by the Reno, Nevada PD on 12/14/64, on a Sedgwick County, Kansas,

warrant with bond being set at $5,000. At the time of arrest

dona being set at die

DOLAN had $1,280.90 in cash on his person and bond was immediately

posted by Mrs. IKE COLVIN of the Ike Colvin Bonding Company,

Reno, Nevada.

DOLAN was very uncooperative and did not discuss

anything with police officers, claiming that his arrest was

based on a "bum rap and they tried to do the same thing to me

in Texas." Located in DOLAN's possession was & bill of sale

dated 12/9/64,

indicating one JIMMYXWIMBERLY,

Route 1, Vinton,

Louisiana, purchased a 1965 Ford,

two door Custom 500 from

Donaldson Ford Company, Sulphur, Louisiana.

3

*Bureau

1-92-36

62-9-12-538

1-92 292

REC- 34

1-137-1110

1-162-1

1-162-37

1-166-102

EX-100

DEC 31 1964

1-166-154

1-162-New

1-94-55A-SUB

IDL/cms

(12)

JAVEd 196 Special Agent in Charge

Sent

ree doll

-M Per -

NW 45960 DocId:32302393 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL

•

94-55A-SUB

On 12/17/64,

PCI of the Las Vegas

Division,

advised that I

LORIN D.

PARRAGUIRRE.

general manner, it was obvious he was very friendly with DOLAN,

pais see epiated the ron the attorney s

or more so than an attorney is with the normal client.

In

information furnished to the bonding company, DOLAN furnished a

fictitious address in Reno, Nevada and also gave a fictitious

home address indicating that he was previously from Cedar Rapids,

Iowa.

The above information was furnished to Detective H. M.

HART, CIS, Dallas PD and to Deputy Sheriff BOB MORGAN, Dallas

County so, on 12/28/64.

RE: GAMBLING ACTIVITIES

DALLAS DIVISION

(DL 162-1)

On 12/23/64,

DE. 181-C-TE, advised that Mrs. JERRY ROSENBERG,

has evidently taken over

approximately January 8, 1965, for Las Vegas, Nevada. Informant

related that the hotel invites different individuals from the

Dallas area to be their guest at the hotel for several days and

that their airplane fare is paid for by the hotel, as well as

their lodging at the Flamingo Hotel.

The above information was furnished to Detective H. M.-

HART, CIS, Dallas PD and to Deputy Sheriff BOB MORGAN, Dallas

County SO, on 12/28/64:

On 12/24/64, ED HASKINS, Intelligence Section, Internal

OTHER 4

at the Hugo, Oklahoma game fights which are scheduled to be

held in that area.

DAWES is a known gambler and bootlegger who has operated

in the Dallas area for years.

The Dallas PD received information

in 1962 that DAWES had arranged for a chicken fight somewhere in

South Dallas and after the spectators had arrived at the location,

IRS

REVIEWED BY

EUFK TASK FORCE -2-

ON

6/26/98 cal

I TOTAL DENIAL

NW 45960 DocId:32302393 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL

94-55A-SUB

DAWES held up the spectators taking their money. According to

PD records, no complaint was filed by any of the participants in

that they were also in actual violation of the law attending

such a sporting event and wagering on the fights.

The above information was furnished to Detective H. M.

HART, CIS, Dallas PD and Deputy Sheriff BOB MORGAN, Dallas County

SO on 12/28/64.

RE: RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS aka

ITAR - GAMBLING

(DL 166-102)

On 12/23/64, DL 181-C-TE advised he had recently talked

with MATTHEWS and learned from MATTHEWS that MATTHEWS is

presently residing in Euless, Texas.

Informant related MATTHEWS

indicated that he was living approximately three blocks back

behind Buddies Supermarket which is located near Highway 183.

MATTHEWS indicated

to informant that he has not been traveling

lately and has spent most of his time gambling at the Redman's

Club located at 1606 Young Street,

Dallas.

MATTHEWS continues to drive his 1964 light blue Oldsmobile.

RE: UNSUB aka Jim Dooland

IGA

(DL 162-New)

On 12/23/64

bets on Dallas telephone number DAvis T-1159.

Informant stated

he was unaware of the individual's identitynor is he acquainted

with any of his bettors.

Records of the Southwestern Bell Telephone Company reveal

that telephone number DAvis 7-1159 is listed to a I. WoX CREER,.

Apartment 104,

- 1041 Knob Oak,

Dallas:

Checks with the Dallas PD, Dallas County SO and the

Retail Merchants Credit Association

were negative concerning the

names F. W. GREER and JIM DOOLAND.

The above information was furnished to Detective H. M.

HART, CIS, Dallas PD and Deputy Sheriff BOB MORGAN, Dallas County

SO, on 12/28/64.

-3-

TexAs

HW 45960 DocId: 32302393

Page 4

---

