# docid-32292507

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10209-10283

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-33-364

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/04/1963

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

CIP, GAMBLING, HORSE RACES

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292507

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DAB56 Adv.42-3967

FBI

1310%

Transmit the following in

Date:

1/4/63

AIRTEL

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing,

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-33)

FROM:

SAC, NEW ORLEANS. (92-50) (P)

SUBJECT:

@CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

RACE WIRE SERVICE

MEREN IS UNCLASSIFIED

235,241

NEW ORLEANS FAIR GROUNDS 118/12/83 BYSPI - GSK-JC

Through the cooperation and checking by the Southern

Bell Telephone

Telegraph Company, New Orleans, La., it

has been determined that the New Orleans Fair Grounds Race

Track servicesis being disseminated to the New Orleans Hand-

book operators through telephone number 947-6206 which is

listed by the Southern Bell

Telephone and Telegraph Company

as being installed at 3021 Fortin Street.

This phone was

issued to MORRIS WILLIAMS, a truck driver for the M & M Laundry

and Cleaners.

CaMs. have been traced from this number to

VErnon 4-291% which telephone is listed as being installed at

336 Collidge Street, Jefferson Parish. This phone is listed

in the name of E.

GANES, SR. and Associates and is an unpublished

business phone. Observation of the exposed telephone lines in

the area of 3021} Fortin Street and 336 Collidge indicates

that there

are apparently a number

of unauthorized extentions

in both of these areas. REG 22

33- 364

with the race

track situation in

New Orleans has advised that this service

is provided by ABEL CHAUVIN, who is formerly connected

with the Nola Printing Company, LAMBERT MITCHEL AnGE

DOMING..

NO1203PC advised

' that MITCHEL and DOMING handled

the race track service in New Orleans during the latter part

of 1961 - 1962 season.

3-Bureau

2-New Orleans

RLK: emc

(5)

53 JAN 1 0 1963.

aW: 27:N

.23

Approved:

222

Special Agent in

Sent

M

Per

DocId: 32292507 Page 2

---

## Page 3

*Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hgte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO. 92-50

NO1203PC advised that another service is being

operated from the corner of Sauvage Road and Fortin Street.

Informant had not been able to determine who is handling

the service from thistaddress, however states things service

being provided by SAM SAIA.

The telephone lines running to

this residence were observed and there

appears at least two

unauthorized telephones running to this address.

Efforts are currently being made to determine if

this service is being transmitted outside of the State of

Louisiana.

Contact has

been maintained with FRED SOULE,

Commanding Officer of the New Orleans Police Department

(Vice Squad, who has confirmed at the present time the

New Orleans Police Department has several individuals

operating in an undercover capacity for attempting to

penetrate local handbook operation and place bets with

these operators.

He admitted that they had been successful

in a number of instances

but they have not effected arrest

because they are desiring to develop additional violations

and that they do not at this time wish to expose their

undercover operátors.

He advised he anticipates it will be

several weeks before

charges will be filed on the cases

that have already been made.

SOULE

to determine the extent of the race wire service in this

area.

follows:

Accomplishments of the New Orleans Office are as

1. Cases opened for investigation with Bureau

jurisdiction...

.......as O

2. Violations uncovered and disseminated to

other agencies.•

.. 1

3.

Matters of interest

furnished to other

agencies.....

... 1

2*

89-9983

DocId: 32292507

Page 3

---

