# docid-32330801

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90093-10007

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 62-9-1194

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

GALE

TO:

DELOACH

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/27/1969

4

NOFIO PECORA

WALL STREET JOURNAL ARTICLE OF MAY 27,1969

REGARDING SMALL B

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF SBA

COMMENTS: MEMO, INC WALL STREET JOURNAL ARTICLE, REFERRED TO SBA

v9.1

DocId: 32330801

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collegtion Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 (gote) .

DATE: 11+JIonZ PoliNo. 10

5010-106°

A-MAY -1967 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27:

UNITED STA'I

INMENT

Tolson

*DeLoach

*Memorenuum

TO

: Mr. DeLoach

DATE: May 27, 1969

FROM

: J. H. Gale!,

Call'chan

Conr

Felt

Gale

Rosen

MaSullivan -

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes —

Gandy -

SUBJECT:

pits

"WALL STREET JOURNAL" ARTICLE

OF MAY 27, 1969, REGARDING SMALL

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION LOANS TO

ORGANIZED CRIME RECIPIENTS

1ON 1000LE PROGRAM-GENERAL

The "Wall Street Journal" of May 27, 1969, carries an article

indicating that four additional Small Business Administration (SBA) loans

to organized crime connected recipients have been identified through that

agency's loaning procedures. This article describes the general circum-

stances of each loan but does not identify the recipients.

Through liaison contact with SBA on May 27, 1969, it was

learned from Mr. William Bowling of that agency that the loans referred

to in the captioned article are as follows:

010.

operator of

11) Loan of $125, 000 in 1967 to Jasper Juseph irasi

Jasper's Italian Restaurant, Inc., Kansas City,

: SBA records' indicate that an FBI name-check request was answered on

July 6, 1966, and that SBA was advised that Mirabile had been arrested

: by the Kansas City, Missouri, Police Department on February 24, 1953,

for disturbing the peace and was fined $25.

JULED

Our files show that pursuant to a name-check request received

from SBA during December, 1967; SBA was furnished with a letterhead

PY

memorandum on January 9, 1968, setting forth detailed information regarding &

Mirabile's background, including his association with a number of leading

Kansas City hoodlums and information indicating that he had served as a

"front" for the Kansas City racket element in operating restaurants and

lounges.

This memorandum also included data regarding a number of

arrests of Mirabile in Kansas City.

UNRECOR:3D

Enc.

EN

1 - Mr. DeLoach

1 - Mr. Bishop

1 - Mr. Rosen

1 - Mr. Gale

1 - Mr. Staffeld

JuN 1 24969mery

TJE:rdr

(8)

LOSURE

1 - Mr. Rose

62-9-1124

17 JUN B 1969

1969

JUN

2/24/78

AJRISIS

CONTINUED -OVER

DocId: 32330801

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 dote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum to Mr. DeLoach

Re: "Wall Street Journal" Article

of May 27, 1969, Regarding Small

Business Administration Loans to

Organized Crime Recipients

(2) Loan of $98, 000 in 1965 to Anthony Paul Marullo, Sr.,

operator of the Sea Shell Motel and Lounge, Grand Isle, Louisiana.

According to SBA, this was a disaster loan and no name-check request

was made.

The only reference in our files to Marullo pertains to an inquiry

conducted by the New Orleans Office in their continuing investigation of

La Cosa. Nostra 'boss" Carlos Marcello in connection with Marullo's

ownership of a number of parcels of land in Grand Isle, Louisiana, including

one parcel on which the Sea Shell Motel is located.

(3) Loan of $210, 000 in 1967 to Nofio Pecoraro (wife - Frances

Pecoraro) of New Orleans, Louisiana. According to SBA, this was a

disaster loan and no name-check request was made. Pecoraro has lived in

New Orleans, Louisiana, most of his life where he has been variously

employed as a bartender, used car dealer, and part owner of a restaurant

in the New Orleans area.

He has been associated with hoodlum figures

including Carlos Marcello.

(4) The loan of $24, 000 to JOhn F LaBruzzo, operator of

our vandalarm yoten 215000 as Yean and SEA made

no request for a name check. By letter dated March 15, 1968, SBA

referred this matter to our New Orleans office for a Fraud Against the

Government investigation inasmuch as their inquiries in connection with

LaBruzzo's loan indicated fraud in connection with his application for the

loan. The results of investigation by our New Orleans office have been

referred to the U. S. Attorney, New Orleans, and awaiting a prosecutive

opinion.* LaBruzzo has been reported to be an errand boy for carlos

Marcello, New Orleans La Cosa Nostra boss.

- 2 -

*Information just received from New Orleans indicates LaBruzzo

indicted under Title 15, Section 645, U.S. Code, for making false

statement to SBA.

DocId: 32330801 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum to Mr. DeLoach

Re: "Wall Street Journal" Article

of May 27, 1969, Regarding Small

Business Administration Loans to

Organized Crime Recipients

OBSERVATIONS:

Of the four loans in question, the SBA made no name -check

request with regard to three of these transactions. The fourth loan to

Mirabile involved an FBI name -check request in which SBA was furnished

detailed data regarding Mirabile's criminal background, associates, and

arrest record.

ACTION:

For your information. A copy of the captioned ?'Wall Street

Journal" article is attached.

V.

-3 -

DocId: 32330801 Page 4

---

