# docid-32338626

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/13/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90143-10044

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-370750-231

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CITIZEN

FROM:

[Restricted]

TO:

[Restricted]

TITLE :

DATE: 01/26/1956

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF USA

COMMENTS : LET; INC ENV AND NOTE

V9.1

DocId: 32338626

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BURBAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONE ENT INFORMATION SHBET (JIR HATERIALS)

_Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions).

[] Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure.

All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[] Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

Ut subsection 1B (intelligence source or method) per fumy

[] Subsection 1C (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations

or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[] Subsection 2

(living person who provided

confidential information)

[]

Subsection 3 (unwarranted invasion of privacy)

[]

Subsection 4 (cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

[]

Subsection 5 (security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

[]

[]

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

For your information:

If The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

100-310750-231 enclosure

XXXXXXXXXX*

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

DocId: 32338626 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Relea

DA!

nedy: Assassination Records, Collect

1188888

MENTAL

AIR MAIL

Exhibit. u1V."

sat,

66th CIC Group, Region VIII

File.

: D-66368

Dated

? Feb 56

Sit ject: Correspondence from Residente of

US to GDR Offices & Personalities

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTANEO

CONADENTIAL

DocId: 32338626

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL

Temporary address, till Feb. 15th

CARE OF ROSS, 164

Waverly Place,

New York, do

Jan. 26t2, 1956

Q

Dear Mr. Schlichting:

: I an most apologetic for my failure.

to send you the materials which I promised to mail on

my return to Los Angeles last Fall. But I am sure you

will understand when I

explain that I have been

so nearly

i no in at do boot and too espondot it has boon

I was having some difficilty with

my eyes when I was In New York last October.. Complications

in the eyo on which a cataract operation had been performed

became much worse after my return to the west Coast for the

banquet that was given in my honor early in November. Since

there was a cataract to be removed from the other eye,

It was almost useless. In view of the complications that

developed, I

took two trips to Now York to consult

speclalists.

I cạn now write of this as something

In the past The two operations were performed successively

a week apart, the last one Just two weeks ago, and I am

progressing excellently, and will have good eyesight in a

wonderfully short time:

I am delighted to hear of the plan

publish HIDDEN HERITAGE, and am most grateful to you

for your good offices in this matter.

I will chock with

Citadel to make sure that the contract has been sent, and

that everything 18 arranged ae quickly. as possible.

It is absurd to have to say that

I am again in New York and all my copies of MARCHING SONG

äre in my store-room on the cast. I

will send two copies

the minute I return- and this, time I shall not neglect the

promise.:

As regards THUNDER MORNING, It must

wait.

I am still making extendive changes in the soript,

which have beenheld up due to my inability. to work. I am

afraid it will now be some months-- as I have many deferred

relation to plans for the musical

done by Barl Robinson. I shall lot you know how lt 1s progress-

ing.

Cordially,

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSINEE

DAT. 7-695 875668-54 p

DocId:32338626 Page. 4

Hind turn

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 799 056

DATE: 11-14-2017

27D6

3468SeS)/nde 1695 (r44)

MOCH

DocId: 32338626

Page

5

---

