# docid-32290909

## Page 1

[Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10206-10185

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-643

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

11/16/1962

'PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

LST, ADMIN, MISUR, RECOMMENDATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

. 10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1,

DocId: 32290909

25

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-11-2017

EX-103

SAC, Miam1 (82-88 sub 8)

REC- 9

Director, 1BI (82-3781) 643

SANTO TRAFFICANT, JR., aka

11-23-62

JUNE

1 - J. D. Donohue

1

1

- Mrs. Buck

- Mr. Brooks

- Bufile 166-79

MAILED 3

NOV 2 C

Piss

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

• DeLoach

Evans

** Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room _3

Holmes _

Gandy

Do your ID-112 dated 11-16-82.

Bureau authority is grantod for the Installation

Of a miNor at tha OffICe Of MiDO Ylacent Collini at the Caribbean

LIon ServiCe, 1UB0 I. I. Brad Street, lian, M1or1da, tor a

pariod of ninaty days comanolng the tims of activation providing

mainin security ls assurad.

The Burosu should be insodiately advised at the time

this source in activated and the ayabal number should be furnished

as well. Is the ovent authority la desirod for continuance

beyond the authorized perlod, subalt appropriate rocontendation

by IN 113 to roach the Bureau at loast 1170 days pIlor to

expliation of this portod. late certain, bowever, that the

productivity of this source 1s avaluatod during the suthorizod

perled in order to fully juntily 1ts operation over the ninety-"

day poriod. Is the ovent 1t 18 not productivo, it should be

discontinuod and the bureau advised la ordar to InsUro an

aconanioal and afficiant oparation of these sourcas.

A rockly alrtal surmary of portinent infornation

CO

rocolved fron this source should be sabaitted to the suraau.

In the ovont infarnation of an imodiato Intorost or signlficance

La rocolted, It aboald do lanadiataly torvarded to the Bureau

by appropriato separato communication. All lenda arising fron

this cousco should to afforded imediato attantion and appropriato

tly nado to fully round out the pleturo vhero this

in appropriate. Infaration dovologod directly relatiog to

piss Callint and sle operations should be aubaltted in proper

a caption of the cano lavolving Colllal.

NOTE:

Cellind was employed in gambling casinos in Havanna, Cuba,

and was associated with Trafficante

and Meyer Lansky.

Cellini is

Trafficante and thig source should develop information concerning

efforts of Trafficante to re-enter gambling operations on a large

Trafficante is destgnated for intensive investigation.

PRS: erw

(8)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

19

UNRECORDOS COPY FILED IN

DocId: 32290909

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Rebeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Letter to Miami

RE:

SANTO TRAFFICANTE

NOTE CONTINUED:

He is reportedly the Florida member of the "commission," attended

the Apalachin meeting and visited notorious hoodlum Albert Anastasia

shortly before his gangland execution. This source should be a

valuable assistance in developing information on the activities of

Trafficante and Cellini. Cellini is the subject of an ITAR violation

which Miami is office of origin.

This installation will be monitored

at the Miami Office and the lease lines will cost approximately

$20 per

month.

- 2 =

DocId: 32290909 Page 3

---

## Page 4

éleased under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection det of 1992 114 USE 2107 Motel?

FD-1.42 (Rev.

42 7=04.-2-2-37,

6-2-

OPTIONAL FORM- NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Director, FBI (Bufile 92-2781

FROM

SAC, Miami (92-88 Sub II)

JUNE

DATE: November 16, 1962

SUBJECT:

RECOMMENDATION FOR INSTALLATION OF RECHNICAL DR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

Character of Case Anti-Racketeering

Field Office Miami

Symbol Number

Type of Surveillance (Technieal: ex Microphone)

1. Name and address of subject:

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., 523 N. E. 71st St., Miami, Florida

2. Location of technical operation:

Office of DINO VINCENT CELLINI at Caribbean Linen Service,

1085 N. W. 62nd St., Miami, Florida

3. Other technical surveillances on same subject:

34

t..

MM 834-C* in TRAFFICANTE's residence, however, this source

currently inoperative, probably due to electrical storm, and

the opportunity to repair or re-establish same has not occurred

as yet.

4. Cost and manpower involved:

1 - GS-7 Clerk

EX-103

1 - GS-7 Clerk

1 - GS-7 Clerk (Night differential)

1 - GS-7 Clerk (Night differential)

(See attached)

5.1

Adequacy of security:

Full security assured /

Bureau

2 - Miami (1 - 66-1266 Sub A)

WFK: amc

Registered Mail

(3)

DocId: 32290909 Page 4

$5540

5540

6101

6101

$23282

A

REC- g

92-2781-643

s NOw 35 1962

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)?

DATE : 11-14-2017

4. Cost and manpower involved: (Continued)

Instant installation, if approved and effected, will be the

Ith installation being monitored at the Central Technical

Plant of the Miami Office.

Figuring 1/7 of the total salary

cost, plus approximately $20.00 per month for leased lines,

the total cost is estimated to be approximately $3566.00 per

annum or $297.00 per month.

DocId: 32290909

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote)?

DATE: 11-14-2017

15. Remarks:

Miami has completed the survey of the office of DINO CELLINI

at the Caribbean Linen Service in Miami. It was found to be

a small panelled room measuring approximately

8'x15'. There

is acoustical tile on the ceiling and the room contains one

desk and several leather upholstered chairs facing the desk.

It is felt that microphone coverage there can be accomplished

by means of the installation of a mite appropriately concealed

in the acoustical tile. It will be necessary to install about

300 feet of lead in wire which will be adequately concealed in

the open lattice work of rafters and girders in the warehouse

type roof.

It is felt that this installation is feasible; that it can be

accomplished with full security; and that it may provide a

16. Getmeatle Agistant Director:

t.

DocId: 32290909 Page 6

---

