# docid-32330092

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90089-10127

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1622-85

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#iN 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

HQ

MM

DATE: 03/02/1961

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TT

N9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32330092

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE

7160681

BYaaa Pou( Balom

5-7-94

Sp& MACES PLAIN TIT

JFK

Simpson

3-2-61

TELETYPE

URGENT

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

CONMUANICATONS SECTION

MAR 2

1961

SACS, MXAMI

JACKSONVILLE

ThOM

DIRECTOR, FBI

ROLANDO ARCADIO HASPERRER ROJAS, NEUTRALITY MATTER.

FOR

INFORMATION OF MIAMI FOLLOWING TELETIPE RECEIVED TODAY FROM

TELETPE

740p

JACKSONVILLE. QUOTE GINES I. RODRIGUEZ. CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE

INFORMACION DASH CUSA. NEUTRALITY ACT. RODRIGUEZ ADVISED MARCH

FIRST LAST HE HAS BEEN CONTACTED BY SENATOR MASFERRER REQUESTINC

THAT HE CONTRIBUTE SMALL RADIO TRANSMITCER FOR USE BY MASFERRER

DASH & GROUP, POSSEBLY IN CUBA, FOR BROADCAST TO THE CUBAN PEOPIE.

HE STATED THAT HE DESIRES TO ASSIST IN OVERTHROVING TEE CASTRO

GOVERNIET IN ANY WAY THAT IS LEGAL. HOWEVER, HE DOES NOT DESIRE

TO VIOLATE ANY FEDERAL LAWS OR GO AGAINST THE POLICY OF THE U.S.

RODRIGUEZ STATED ME HAD CONFERRED WITH HIS ATTORNEY; MR. CRABTRES,

IN JACKSONVILLE ENCARDING THIS MATTER AND THAT CRABTREE HAD TOLD

HIM HE WAS GOING TO CONTACT SENATOR SMATHERS FROM FLORIDA AS TO

WHETHER SUCH A GIPT ON HIS PART WOULD BERNEYN

THE POLICY OF

2-16 7222

85

THIS COUNTRY.

RODRIGUEZ SAID HE DESIRED TRIS-INFORMATION

BE HANDLED

lenn

Irsons

EDS: pu

13)

nont

chan

ad

ich

7113

MAR 26 16A0

NOTE ON YELLOW:

Information regarding possible expedition

is being telephonically furnished to state

•Central

Intelligence Agency, Office of Naval Intelligence, Air Force,

Army, Customs,

Immigration and Naturalization Service and

the Department and

will be

confirmed separately

MAR 813961

JoNY

ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 54460 DocId: 32330092

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TELETYPE TO MIAMI

JACKSONVILLE

ROLANDO ARCADIO MASFERRER ROJAS

WITH SECRECY INASMUCH AS HE HAS RELATIVES IN CUBA. RODRIGUEZ

ADVISED THAT HE HAS TO CONTACT MASFERRER TODAY TO GIVE HIS ANSWER

AND THAT MASFERRER IS.

TO SEND TO JACKSONVILLE FOR THE TRANSMITTER

TONIGHT

MASEERRER INDICATED THAT THE MATTER WAS URGENT

INASMUCH AS THEY EXPECT TO GO INTO CUBA WITHIN THE NEXT FEW

DAYS AND THE TRANSMITTER IS DESIRED INNEDIATELY IN ORDER THAT IT

CAN BE TAKEN INTO CUBA WITH QUOTE THEM UNQUOTE. UACB, IT IS

CONTEMPLATED THAT RODRIGUEZ WILL BE ADVISED THAT THIS BUREAU

CANNOT ADVISE HIM REGARDING THE ACTION HE SHOULD TAKE IN THIS

MATTER INASMUCH AS THIS BUREAU IS CHARGED WITH RESPONSIBILITIES

INVOLVING THE INTERNAL SECURITY OF THE U.S. AND ENFORCEMENT OF

FEDERAL LAWS AND HAS NO JURISDICTION IN REGARD TO INTERNATIONAL

MATTERS, AND THAT CONSEQUENTLY. ANY ACTION TAKEN BY HIM WILL BE

TAKEN UPON HIS OWN RESPONSIBILITY END QUOTE. MIAMI INSTRUCTED

CONTACT MASFERRER IMMEDIATELY REGARDING ALLEGATION MASFERRER

EXPECTS TO MOVE INTO CUBA NEXT FEW DAYS AND CONDUCT SUCH OTHER

INVESTIGATION AS MAY BE NECESSARY TO DETERMINE TRUTH OR FALSITY

OF ALLEGATION. ALSO DEFINITELY DETERMINE WHETHER MASFERRER HAS

EXPEDITIONARY FORCE OR IS CAPABLE OF LAUNCHING INVASION. SUTEL

RESULTS INVESTIGATION.

JACKSONVILLE INSTRUCTED SUBMIT EXPLANATIONS

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIOR

WHY ABOVE TELETYPE NOT SUBMITTED MIAMI.

U. S. DEPARIMENT OF JUSTICE

CONMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR 2

10A1

=2 =

TELETYPE

2.410 p

NW 54460 DooId: 32330092

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FEDERAL BURZAU OF INVESTICATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR 2

1961

TELETYPE

URGENT 3-2-61 7-40 PM DA

TO SACS MIAMI AND JACKSONVILLE

FROM DIRECTOR 2P

ROLANDO ARCADIO MASFERRER ROJAS, NEUTRALITY MATTER. FOR

INFORMATION OF MIAMI FOLLOWING TELETYPE RECEIVED TODAY FROM

JACKSONVILLE. QUOTE GINES I. RODRIGUEZ. CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE OF

INFORMATION DASH CUBA. NEUTRALITY ACT • RODRIGUEZ ADVISED MARCH

FIRST LAST HE HAS BEEN CONTACTED BY SENATOR MASFERRER REQUESTING

THAT HE CONTRIBUTE SMALL RADIO TRANSMITTER FOR USE BY MASFERRER

DASH S GROUP, POSSIBLY IN CUBA, FOR BROADCAST TO THE CUBAN PEOPLE.

HE STATED THAT HE DESIRES TO ASSIST IN OVERTHROWING THE CASTRO

GOVERNMENT IN ANY WAY THAT IS LEGAL. HOWEVER HE DOES NOT DESIRE

TO VIOLATE ANY FEDERAL LAWS OR GO AGAINSI THE POLICY OF THE U.S.

RODRIGUEZ STATED HE HAD CONFERRED WITH HIS ATTORNEY, MR. CRABTREE,

IN JACKSONVILLE REGARDING THIS MATTER AND THAT CRABTREE HAD TOLD

HIM HE WAS GOING TO CONTACT SENATOR SMATHERS FROM FLORIDA AS TO

WHETHER SUCH A GIFT ON HIS PART WOULD BE WITHIN THE POLICY OF

THIS COUNTRY. RODRIGUEZ SAID HE DESIRED THIS INFORMATION BE HANDLED

Let to 5 xte

END PAGE ONE

nose, ACTU

FOr Yergey

forred

, cio 4

N, Cor

316'

NDS.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

GFA)

DATE

71 10181 BY2842PmU/BAlm.

5-7-94

HH 54460 DocId:32330092 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PAGE TWO

WITH SECRECY INASMUCH AS HE HAS RELATIVES IN CUBA. RODRIGUEZ

ADVISED THAT HE HAS TO CONTACT MASFERRER TODAY TO GIVE HIS ANSWER

AND THAT MASFERRER IS TO SEND TO JACKSONVILLE FOR THE TRANSMITTER

TONIGHT. MASFERRER INDICATED THAT THE MATTER WAS URGENT

INASMUCH AS THEY EXPECT TO GO INTO CUBA WITHIN THE NEXT FEW

DAYS AND THE TRANSMITTER IS DESIRED IMMEDIATELY IN ORDER THAT IT

CAN BE TAKEN INTO CUBA WITH QUOTE THEM UNQUOTE• VACB, IT IS

CONTEMPLATED THAT RODRIGUEZ WILL BE ADVISED THAT THIS BUREAU

CANNOT ADVISE HIM REGARDING THE ACTION HE SHOULD TAKE IN THIS

MATTER INASMUCH AS THIS BUREAU IS CHARGED WITH RESPONSIBILITIES

INVOLVING THE INTERNAL SECURITY OF THE U.S. AND ENFORCEMENT OF

FEDERAL LAWS AND HAS NO JURISDICTION IN REGARD TO INTERNATIONAL

MATTERS, AND THAT CONSEQUENTLY ANY ACTION TAKEN BY HIM WILL BE

TAKEN UPON HIS OWN RESPONSIBILITY END QUOTE. MIAMI INSTRUCTED

CONTACI MASFERRER IMMEDIATELY REGARDING ALLEGATION MASFERRER

EXPECTS TO MOVE INTO CUBA NEXT FEW DAYS AND CONDUCT SUCH OTHER

INVESTIGATION AS MAY BE NECESSARY TO DETERMINE TRUTH OR FALSITY

OF ALLEGATION. ALSO DEFINITELY DETERMINE WHETHER MASFERRER HAS

EXPEDITIONARY FORCE OR IS CAPABLE OF LAUNCHING INVASION• SUTEL

RESULTS INVESTIGATION. JACKSONVILLE INSTRUCTED SUBMIT EXPLANATIONS

WHY ABOVE TELETYPE NOT SUBMITTED MIAMI.

END & ACK PLS

MM OK FBI MM RHR

JK OK FBI JK MHM

TU DISC

K

NH 54460 DocId: 32330092 Page 5

---

