# docid-32424906

## Page 1

Date

Page

:

08/04/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

JCS

RECORD NUMBER

202-10001-10175

RECORDS SERIES

..

FOIA SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: DOC 176

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54214 Date:

09-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : OSD

FROM : BRIG. GEN. LANSDALE

TO

: GENERAL CRAIG

TITLE :

DATE

: 04/13/62

PAGES

SUBJECTS

: MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

:IOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Bracketed portions withheld by Joint Staff.

of document reviewed by CIA,

State, OSD.

Remainder

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

MAR

2016

DATE:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

14 54214

DocId:32424906

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

WASHINGTON 25.0.C.

198

13 April 1902

-SENSITIVE

MILIORANDUM FOR GENERAL CRAIG

Attn:

Colonel " right

From:

Brig. Gen. Lansdale

Subject:

Beach Reconnaissance

mor

you know, it was a surprise to me to learn that the

prepared Navy, beach reconnaissance in Cuba was being beld

in abeyance die to aJRC understanding that this proposal

still needed poli?

loval. I then asked General Taylor

ior clarification.

R

This mortig,

Deputy Secretary Gilpatric iniormed

nie tilat this miatter was discussed in the Special Gro:p yester-

day, and that the policy approval for this operation was reaffirmed.

Thus, the proposed operation is clearly within approved policy.

Request that you make this approval known, properly, so

that the operation can proceed. It is requested, further, that

you iniorm the Leputy Secretary and r.yseli of essential facts

as this oparation is carried out.

cs:

'=yes Orly" to

Secretary McNamara

Deputy Secretary Cilpatri:

General Lemnitzer

General Taylor::

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

23 Jиnc98mebl

The Department or state nas no objection to the

OSD: NOOBUACTON

release or declassification of this document in full

ZUJON98

under the provisions of the JFK Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (PL102-526)

Reviewed on _

1/30/98 мр

SENSITIVE

HH 54214 DocId: 32421906 Page 2

30

24020925

PEGRID:

122:

COPY -..

- 07.6

1p.

СОРТВЕ.

---

