# docid-32310412

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/26/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10303-10026

HQ

151-3208-12, IST NR 12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

BLISS, NORMAN E.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/14/1967

PAGES: 13

SUBJECTS :

GPH, INTV, GPH, RES, EMP, ASSOC, REL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

DocId: 32310412

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Releaser under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USe 2107 Note)

DATE 287757.4-74051

FEDER

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

BUREAU OF IN

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CONFIVENTIAL

DATE

BUREAU

STIGATION®

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

8/10-18/67

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, JR.

9/14/67

REPORT MADE BY

NORMAN E. BLISS

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYRED BY

DECLASSIFIED, BY 9803 RDD. JEH

ON 09/22/94

(IFK,)

AID

REFERENCES:

APPROPRIMTE RELICIA, Bureau letter

to Miami,

8/2/67.

FAND FIELD

Bureau airtel

ADVISED B

ROUTING

to Miami, 8/28/67.

class

- RUC -

REQ. REC'D=

MAY 14 1975

ANS.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

ITON CONTAINED

HEREN IS UNCLASSLFLED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Confidential informant utilized in this

report, who was acquainted with persons in

CASTRO activities of the Miami area, is MM 639-9,

the-310, (4)

_copies

FBIHQ by,

$$211

Classflied

Deciassify

OADRY 5/95

- А*

-

COVER PAGE

cave p9%,

62-804060.

FILED

GERY

UNRECORDED

Case, has bee

Pending over one year

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Pending prosecution over six months O

Yes

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

NO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

Bureau (151-3208)

(AM)

15k

3208

1 - Miami (151-186)

Dissem

MADE • INV

INCOMPLETE

XEROX

СЬЄС. ТОЛЮ: UeK

SEP 28 1967

2E6 i0 15 I1 6M.21

Dissemination Recordof Attached Report

SEP 18 1967

12

TREC 27,

EX-102

Notations

Rau

incY

rest Recd.

-bate wd.

How. Fud:

BY

cards or

N0 OCT 5

1967

CONFIdEN

DocId: 32310412

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11=11-2912

204.(Rev. 3-3-59)

UNIT <O STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAL

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

Character:

Synopsis:

NORMAN E. BLISS

9/14/67

Office:

MIAMI, FLORIDA

151-186

Bureau File #: 151-3208

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

JR.

DECLASSIFIED BY

9803 RAB/EH

42113861

Classifieavoy

SPOBIAGEL

Declassif/bn: OADR95/35

ON -6-8-93.

AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

APFROPRLATE AGENCIE

AND FIXT

OTFICES

ADVISED

A ROUTING

Several Miami acquaintances of the

SLIP (S)

slan

DATE

applicant variously described him as

11/25MD/

untrustworthy, lacking in integrity, un-

reliable, emotionally immature and lack-

ing in character.

Unfavorable credit

information set out re Sears-Roebuck,.

Miami, Confidential informant furnished

information re trip by applicant to Guate-

mala, during which he drank excessively

cant's friends in Miami have been soldiers

of

fortune who do not have excellent

reputations.

- RUC -

ALE INFOR

NION CONTAINED

HEND IN Y

ENCLASSIFIED

EXCOr

DID SHOWN

DETAILS:

Investigation reflected in this

report was conducted by Special Agent (SA)

NORMAN E. BLISS at Miami, Florida, except

where otherwise stated.

This case was referred to the

Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) by

the Civil Service Commission (CSC) under

the provisions of the Foreign Assistance

Act of 1961, as amended.

CONFIRENTIAL

i do to no a te a can l a the property of the FBI and is loaned to

DocId: 32310412 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC (2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 151-186

-CONFIDENTIAL

close supervision of others, the applicant could do

a creditable job.

However, he qualified his recom-

mendation of the applicant

by pointing out that he

would want to see him hired by the U.S. Government

only if it is found that he has matured greatly in

the past years.

Close Personal Associate

maria

ROBERT

BROWN, 1925 SW 4th Street/

advised

that he has known

the applicant since 1962, and regards

him as a soldier of fortune and an adventurer who has

earned a reputation for his wild flights of fantasy

and his occasional uncouthness.

He stated that the

character of the applicant is highly questionable and

he commonly tells people things which he knows are

not the truth.

He stated that the applicant is a

very impressive person physically, being approximately

6'5" tall and well proportioned.

He is quite intelli-

gent, well read, and well versed in military infor-

mation.

However, BROWN stated that because of the

many times he has seen the applicant stretch the truth,

he would hesitate to recommend him, for any position

where the applicant's personal reports of a situation

would have to be accepted. He stated that in his opinion

the applicant could be a very valuable man if his

trustworthiness and truthfulness could be

depended upon.

MISCELLANEOUS:

On August 10, 1967, Confidential Informant

MM T-l who is acquainted with a number of the persons

who have been connected with anti-CASTRO activities

in the Miami area,

and who has participated in such

activities himself, advised that he has known the appli-

cant since approximately 1960, or 1961, at which time

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING was the leader and organizer of

a group of soldiers of fortune and adventurers organized

for the purpose of attempting to help overthrow the

CASTRO regime in Cuba®

This group was named Inter-

continental Penetration Forces (Interpen).

MM T-] advised that HEMMING is a young man

of considerable intelligence and an unusual amount

of resourcefulness, and makes an excellent first impres-

sion on people.

However, he is a man of little or no

integrity and character, who will resort to violent

=6 -

CONFIDENTIAl

DocId: 32310412 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under 'the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAR

MM 151-186

or devious means in order to attain his ends.

that in approximately 1964, HEMMING and several of his

friends raided the home of a Cuban revolutionary anti-

CASTRO individual named CARLOS ZARRAGA.

During this

raid, which was planned by HEMMING, one of HEMMING's

held a .45 automatic pistol at the head of ZARRAGA,

while the others stole a number of machine guns and

rifles and put them in their cars. A few minutes

later, for

some unknown reason, HEMMING had a change

of heart and had his men return the weapons to ZARRAGA's

home. J64) (4)

According to MM T-1, in approximately 1961,

HEMMING, with one of his men named DICK

an unknown third party, obtained some stolen checks

which they were disposing of in various stores in the

Miami area. HEMMING always stayed in the car during

this operation, but WATLEY got picked up, found guilty

in court, and

given a suspended

sentence. (e)(a

In 1963, MM T-1 recalled, HEMMING was

instrumental in getting up a group of men to go on a

search flight to Guatemala for two Americans who were

missing on a flight. One of these men was ALEXANDER

I. RORKE, whose uncle, a judge in the state of New.

York,

came to Florida

in an effort to find out what

happened to RORKE.

HEMMING, hoping to get money from

RORKE's uncle and also from the insurance company

which had covered the lost plane, set up the above

described search flight, which was conducted in a

rented DC-3 plane. (P)(U.)

an insurance

HEMMING and DAVIS

umped or be plane ten la 5. ANy tape Yatigues

and HEMMING was carrying a shotgun.

The entire party

was then questioned

by Guatemalan military men, and (flU)

Fla.

-7-

cata

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32310412 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the: John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note) :

DAT563 77-14-3947

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTFISHAL

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

BUREAU

8/10-18/67

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, JR.

9/14/67

REPORT MADE BY

NORMAN E. BLISS

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

klj

DECLASSIFIED BY 9803 RAN/ Ea

REFERENCES:

Bureau letter to Miami,

8/2/67.

Bureau airtel to Miami,

8/28/67.

- RUC -

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Confidential

informant utilized in this

report, who was acquainted with persons in the anti-

Castro activities of the Miami area, is MM 639-S.)(@)

*LL INFORATION CONTAINED

LB:B.N IS

MCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WRORE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Classified Ul, SP6.BTA/GCL

Declassif on: OADR 95/85

-A*-

COVER PAGE

Case has been: Pending over one year

Yes

→ No; Pending prosecution over six months

Yes

_ No

SPECIAL AGENT

APPROVED

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

- Bureau (151-3208) (AM)

1 - Miami (151-186)

1!114

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

1701

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

COMPIDENTIA

DocId: 32310412 Page 6

---

