# docid-32328973

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/19/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90083-10073

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-95461-51

Released under the John

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 01/15/1962

PAGES:

32

SUBJECTS :

CARLOS RODRIGUEZ QUESADA

CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: LHM

V0.1

74 54462

DooId: 32328973

Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIRENTIAL

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

LUN CONTAINED

ADD INFORMATI

HEREINI

WHERE SHOWN

OTHERSE

9/22/gef

# 211,376

Classified by

Declassity on

105-3558

Miami, Florida

January 15, 1962

RE: CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

There is summarized in this memorandum information

received from various sources concerning current rebel

activities in Cuba. A table of contents for this memorandum

is set forth below.

(SP)

I. ANTI-CASTRO UNDERGROUND ORGANIZATIONS IN CUBA

A. Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil

(Revolutionary Student Directory (DRE)

B.

Christian Democratic Movement (MDC)

C.

Revolutionary Movement of the People (MRP)

D.

Revolutionary Recovery Movement (MRR)

E.

30th of November Movement

F.

Revolutionary Unity (UR)

G. The 17th of April Movement

II. REPORTED GUERRILLA ACTIVITY

III. NATURE OF UNDERGROUND ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

IV. AMOUNT OF MILITARY EQUIPMENT POSSESSED BY

UNDERGROUND FORCES

V. ARMS REQUIREMENTS OF THE UNDERGROUND GROUPS

A.

B.

Groups Operating in Cities

Groups Operating in Rural Areas

VI.

LIAISON BETWEEN UNDERGROUND GROUPS IN CUBA

WITH UNITED STATES

VII.

EVALUATIONS OF PRESENT STATUS OF UNDERGROUND

GROUPS

71697

CLASSIED BY S668-34/mck

DECLASSIFY ON:

JFK)

105-95461-51 CONABENTIAI

ANCLOSURE

NW 54462 DooId:32

28973

Page

1/36

Page

la

la

4

6

9

11

12

13

18

19

21

21

228

23

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

RIO: CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT OF THE

PEOPLE (MRP)

REYNOL

GONZALEL, an underground leader of the

MRP who uses the name "ANTONIO". directed a letter dated

October 1, 1961, from Havana,

Cuba, to JOAQUIN/GODOY

and IGNACIO MENDOZA, leaders of the MRP in the united U.S.A.

States. In this letter GONZALEZ furnished information

regarding activities in Cuba in September, 1961. He

indicated that the MP underground in Cuba was active

im the field of sabotage having planted 25 bombs throughout

the City of Havana during one night.

He mentioned that

the MRP in Cuba was using a plastic bag containing a

chemical mixture similar to live phosphorous, which was

difficult to handleand that their detonators were old

and corroded,

He mentioned that the "GEL" that they had

been using was "C-3"' which had a peculiar oder and that

it was,

therefore, quite evident that the MRP underground

was working under most adverse conditions, He noted

that despite the controls exercised by the CASTRO regime,

the MRP continued to engage in sabotage activity without

hesitation,

But he objected to the fact that the under-

ground was forced to use

homemade material without

any effective aid in the form of equipment from abroad,

On November 28, 1961, MM T-3, a Cuban exile

residing in Akron, Ohio, made available information

which had been

received by a friend of his in a secret

ink message dated November 8, 1961, at Havana, Cuba.

According to MM T-3, the writer of this message was

one CASION AÇOSTA RUE, who was using the !war name" of

JAVIER REGO, the name which appeared as the sender on

the envelope in which this letter was mailed. This

secret ink message stated that nearly all of the MRP

leadership had been

made prisoners.

One of the leaders,

"ANTONIO"" had been "tortured in the cold room" and

nearly died and sodium pentathol had been used by the

=6 =

CONFIDENTIAL

HH 54462 DocId:32328973 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONFPENTAL

RE: CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

In the revolution to overthrow the BATISTA regime,

at which time he was also fighting in the hills.

served as a lieutenant in the rebel army of FIDEL CASTRO

but after the arrest of Comandante HUBERT MATOS, who was

respected by RAMIREZ, RAMIREZ went to the hills with three

or four friends to join other anti-CASTRO forces there.

Ultimately, other guerrilla fighters were wiped out

while RAMIREZ survived and as a result, he has become

somewhat of a legend among the anti-CASTRO Cubans in

Cuba.

According to MM I-4, RAMIREZ does not have the

intellectual capacity to be a future leader of state,

but

is a tighter,

non-political, and commands the respect of

his men.

MM T-4 stated that while he had heard rumors

regarding small groups of guerrillas operating in the

provinces of Oriente and Pinar del Rio, the group of

OSVALDO RAMIREZ is the only one which he knows to exist.

on Novenber 20, 1961, HECTOR/MEBLES, 785 North:

west 101st Street, Miami,!

Florida, a representative of

the DR in Miami, advised that he had just received a

communication from a source of the UR in Cuba who had

been contacted by a person representing OSVALDO RAMIREZ.

FEBLES stated that according to this information, RAMIREZ

was then in the Hills of the Escambray with approximately

800 men and in dire need of food and ammunition, FEBLES

th and nose one

said that the person who was second in command to

RAMIREZ had made an attempt to leave Cuba by boat in

early November to obtain help for the group from the

United States, but that he had been forced to return to

Cuba by bad weather conditions.

‹(U)

= 17 .

CONADENTIA!

HH

54462

DocId: 32328973

Page

---

## Page 5

CONFDENTIAL

RE: CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

VI. LIAISON BETWEEN UNDERGROUND GROUPS IN

CUBA WITH UNITED STATES

MM T-2, previously mentioned, advised on

November 21, 1961, that the DRE in Cuba had no means of

communication with Cuban exiled groups in the United

States and that in fact it was for this reason that he

personally come to the United States.

BERNARDO LLERENA, previously mentioned,

furnished substantially the same information regarding

communication between rebel groups in Cuba and those in

the United States.

HECTOR FEBLES, previously mentioned, advised

on November 30, 1961, that personal courier was the only

means of communication existing between the cuban under-

ground groups in Cuba and the Cuban exiles in the United

States. He related that messages from Cuba are either

sent by means of friendly foreign embassy personnel of

are carried by fleeing Cuban exiles!

• 22a

CONAIDENTIAL

HH

54462

DocId: 32328973

Page

5

---

## Page 6

CONFIDENTIAL

RE: CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

VII. EVALUATIONS OF PRESENT STATUS OF UNDER-

GROUND GROUPS

HECTOR FEBLES, previously mentioned, advised

on November 30, 1961, that based on information which

he has been receiving from contacts of his in Cuba, it

is apparent that the underground groups there are generally

not tunctioning with any coordinated plan.. He said that

some groups were completely wiped out by the antir

underground measures of the CASTRO regime in April, 1961,

while

those that survived were seriously disorganized.

He said that the leadership which remains in Cuba is

having great difficulty maintaining contact with the

membership cells and that this lack of communication is

causing the deterioration of many groups.

FEBLES advised that as of that time he was

unable to furnish the identities of any of the leaders

of the underground In Cuba. He said that this was

partly due to the fact that arrests and executions

have radically changed the leadership in almost all

of the groups and that furthermore, he did not feel

free to identify any person continuing to operate in the

underground in Cuba.

Regarding the political sympathies of the

underground groups in Cuba, FEBLES stated that the

UR, of which he was a member, was composed mainly of

small, non-political organizations with a tendency

toward the "right." He said that the MRP and the 30th

of November organizations have tendencies toward the

"left' and that many of the members of these groups

would continue to support FIDEL CASTRO if he would

merely sever his ties with the Soviet Union, FEBLES

mentioned that the MRP has suffered an almost complete

loss of leadership and is not a serious factor in the

Cuban underground.

- 23.

CONNDENTIAL

HH 54462 DooId: 32328973

Page 6

---

## Page 7

CONFYDENTIAL,

RE: CUBAN REBEL ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

FEBLES advised that the DRE is one group which

has apparently managed to survive the effects of the

arrests of April, 1961, and that this group is probably

as active as any in Cuba at this time.

He stated that

the UR, which is a smaller organization, has been working

in collaboration with the DRE, FEBLES stated that an

estimate of the strength of the UR of any of the other

underground groups would be nothing more than a guess

at this time.

In December, 1961, MM T-6, a Cuban exile

residing in San Juan, Puerto Rico, made available a letter -

he had received from his uncle regarding conditions in

Santiago, Oriente Province, Cuba.

In this letter, his

uncle commented that "each day our activities are

more

limited."

He said that the so called

Wigilance Committees

in each block control what food is left in the country

and that anyone not belonging to the Committee is

considered a counterrevolutionary. The people of Cuba

are living in fear of arrest and execution without trial,

and while a high percentage of the citizens have joined

organizations which are in apposition to the regime,

"modern airplanes" are needed to fight "these people."

On December 13, 1961, Captain CARLOS TORRES DE

NAVARRA, 2137 Southwest 12th Street, Miami, Florida, was

interviewed and identified himself as a Cuban pilot who

had flown for Cubana Airlines from January, 1935, until

the end of 1958.

When FIDEL CASTRO took over the

government of Cuba in January, 1959, TORRES lost his

position with the airlines.

He said that he remained

in Cuba and in 1959 began working with various anti-

CASTRO groups.

He said that after a number of attempts,

he was able to obtain permission to leave Cuba and

arrived in Miami, Florida, on December 5, 1961. TORRES

stated that he had been restricted by the CASTRO regime

- 24=

CONFIDENTIA!

NH 54162 DocId: 32328973 Page 7

---

