# docid-32327806

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90066-10047

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3960-74

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: NY

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/04/1964

1

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32327806

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE:

On 5/11/64, AL 3050-PC advised that during the prior

week at Aqueduct Race Track, the informant met JOIE KAUFMAN.

The informant stated that KAUFMAN advised him that he had a

fight with his wife and hit her during the incident.

KAUFMAN

advised the informant

that she threatened to go to the police

and since he was afraid the police might come to the house

on her complaint, he had to get a gun and "other stuff"

Seurouse

which would involve others, out of the house, so it would'

not be found if the police appeared at his residence.

KAUFMAN

told the informant that he put the gun and "other stuff" in a

friend's apartment.

He stated that KAUFMAN did not identify the

"other stuff" or "the others who would be involved" or the

apartment in which the "stuff and gun" were relocated. Since

the aforementioned information does

not specify that this

involved the subject, this information has not been inciuded

in the details of the report.

In the event additional information is developed to

further clarify this situation, appropriate steps will be taken

to forward any pertinent information to the NYCPD.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source-

NY T-1

MIC. ROBERT DEVINE,

Attorney, NY, NY

(By request)

NY I-2

US Deputy Marshal

WILLIAM GALLINARO, EDNY

Contacted By

SAS FREDERICK W. KUHLMAN and

GEORGE S. TEMPRO

SAS EUGENE J. HINDES and

FREDERICK W. KUHLMAN

COVER PAGE

-B -

DocId: 32327806 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

8.1.so

NY 92-1108

INFORMANTS Cont'a

Identity of Source

NY T-3

NY 4336-C-TE

NY T-4

NY 4402-PC

NY T-5

NY 4003-C-TE

NY T-6

NY 204-0

LEADS:

MIAMI

Contacted By

SAS PAUL G. DURKIN and

PATRICK J.

HERLIHY

SA LEONARD H. MC COY

SA JAMES M. MC ANDREW.

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

At Miami, Fla.

Will conduct appropriate credit, criminal and indices

checks on SEBASTIAN DI PIETRO, 365 Northeast 88th St., MM, Fla.

NEWAPK

At Newark, NJ.

Will determine the registrant of NJ registration EWW592

and conduct appropriate credit,

criminal and indices checks.

NEW YORK

At New York, NY

*I. Will continue to follow the current prosecution

of the subject on Income Tax Matters.

2. Will maintain contact with appropriate informants

relative to the subject's activities.

COVER PAGE

-C-

DocId: 32327806 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Feleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, New York (92-1108)

Director,

(92-3960) * 14

6/4/64

SALVATORE-

AR

ReNYlet 5/25/64•

Enclosed is one copy each of the following communications

"pacheco Petroleum Company:" legat Havana letter to

Director's letter to Ir. Dennis A. Flinn, Director, Office of

Security, Department of

'State, Washington, D. C., dated 714/55.

• It is belleved that the latter communication is identical

with the letter referred to by AUSA Charles Stillman, Bouthern District

of New York. Source T-l referred to is HAV-ll, formerly NYC-25-

Criminal Informant, who is Albert Nathaniel SchapirolS New Vork files (2)

should contain considerable background on this individual. It is

noted that Schapiro voluntarily left the United States and tools

residence in Cuba in 1947, fOllowing an Inmigration and Naturalization

Service deportation hearing, which was occasioned by the state

Department withdrawal of Schapiro's passport based on a consideration

that he had been born in Poland, rather than in the United States as

he clained.

During recent years, Schapiro

has resided in Paris, France,

and was last known to be under indictment for an undetermined crine

in Switzerland.

It is belleved that AUSA Stillman should be informed that

no longer in contact with

3 Bureau, and whose exact current

whereabouts are

Enclosures (3)

MAILED 3

JUN 4 - 1964

COMM-EBN

7H326

Classifor

Dechasty on: ONOR

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

TJE: erw

(4)

Conrad

De Loach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel .

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

JUN 10 1964 AN ROOM

DocId: 32327806

Page 4

18/

CION CONTAI

HERWISE

TELETYPE UNIT

---

