# docid-32148898

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10086-10274

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 100-10461-8220

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

GEMBERLING. ROBERT P.

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/08/1964

PAGES: 275

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-5061

Released

under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cases:NHl 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

DOCUMENT TYPE:

- ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 07/26/1996

STATUS

Redact

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/22/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 54463

DocId: 32148898

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-868 (Rev. 5-1-39)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aKa

DATE

10/8/64

REPORT MADE BY

ROBERT P. GEMBERLING

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/24/64 - 10/6/64

TYPED BY

jtf

IS-R - CUBA

REFERENCE :

Report of SA ROBERT P.

Dallas.

EMBERLING dated 9/19/64, at

Kp-

ALL INFE

MILd

ENCLOSURES :

TO THE BUREAUS

DATE 5-17-93

BY 9803 RDP/KSR

IFIC

Enclosed herewith and attached to appropriate

copies of

this report for the Bureau are two photographs each of Exhibit

D-251 and three copies each of Exhibits C-323 and C-324.

The two photographs of Exhibit D-251 and two coplas

each of Exhibits C-323 and C-324 are listed as enclogures for the

President's Commission or its designated representative in the

body of this report with those copies being attached to the copies

of the report that are designated as President's Comnission or 1t8

designated representative copies.

SPECIAL AGENT

..IN CHARGE

APpROVED

COPIES MADE:

10 - Bureau (105-82555) (Enc. 8) (RM)

1 - New Orleans (100-16601) (IAfO) (RM)

San Antonio (105-2909) (InfO) (RM)

Dallas (100-10461)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

100-10461-

2220

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

NOTATIONS

AGENCY..

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. ...

HOW FWD.

54463

Doc1d:32148898

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DE 100-10461

The Bureau's attention is called to the fact that by

Bureau letter dated September 10, 1964, only three photographic

to be handled as exhibits had been handled previously. In view

of the fact that only three copies were furnished Dallas rather

than the usual four, Dallas is retaining one copy in its files

and the two enclosed herewith are being considered as copies for

the President's Commission or its designated representative.

The Bureau may desire to remove the enclosure page of

this report 111: 1t dis disseminated to agencies other than the

President's Commission or its designated representative.

LEADS &

All leads in this case have been set forth by teletype or

airtel in the past and are not being restated herein. Requests

for investigation and allegations are still being received and are

being investigated promptly and will be continued to be reported

In captioned matter.

NEW ORLEANS and SAN ANTONIO: (INFORMATION)

One copy of this report is being furnished each of the

New Orleans and San Antonio Offices for information in vlew of the

extensive investigation conducted in those divisions.

INFORMANTS:

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

DI T-1 1s MM 639-S, who was

contacted on November 11. 1963.

by the Miami Office.

FILE WHERE LOCATED

Instant report, page 212?

per information contained in

•Miami letter to Dallas dated

12/9/63 in the matter captioned

"LORAN EUGENE HALI, aka, WILLIAN

HOUSTON SEYMOUR, - NEUTRALITY

MATTERS", Serial 7 of Dallas file

2-68.

-B-

(COVER PAGE)

1H 54463 Do0Id:32148898 Page 3

---

