# docid-32310818

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/20!5

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10308-10032

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-722

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/10/1962

2

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/03/1998

SGI, ASSOC AND REL, SPORTSMANS PARK RACE TRACK,

SUR, GAMBLING ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

INC A/T

V9.1

DocId: 32310818

Page 1

324

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

a..

May 15, 1962

Airtel

!

To: SAG, Chicago (92-349)

Fron:

Director, RES# (92-3171) - 722

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA "

Reurtel 5/10/62 advising CG 6457-PC had advised that

she had learned from acquaintances of Giancans that he is

definitely married to phyllis McGuire. (U)

Furnish any further avallable details concerning the

source of the informant's report in order that efforts can

made, 11 possible, to verily this marriage. (U)

It appears that retel would fall within that category

of communications which should be considered for encoding when

JGL: asg

(4)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 4-23-84 158302/

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Mglone.

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

MAILES 19

MAY I 5 1962

COMM-FBI

TELETYPE UNIT !

DocId: 32310818

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Releasen uner the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 21U7 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

FED":

COMMUNICATIOND Jacr.usl

MAY 11 1902

TELETYPE SA

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont T

Mr. Mohr.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. Delick

Mr. Evans

Mr. Mal- y

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Taur

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy

DEFERRED

5-10-52

11-40 PM JEG

TO

DIPECTOR FBI

92-3171

gload

FROM SAC CHICAGO

92-349

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA, AR.

DAILY SUMMARY. EXTENSIVE REMODELING NOW IN PROGRESS AT ARMORY

LOUNGE, PARTICULARLY IN REAR

SECTION, OR MEETING AREA• GIANCANA OBSERVED

BY INFORMANT YESTERDAY SUPERVISING CONSTRUCTION INSIDE AND OUTSIDE OF

ARMORY LOUNGE. (V)

CG SIX FOUR FIVE SEVEN DASH PC ADVISED YESTERDAY THAT SHE HAS LEARN

ED FROM ACQUAINTANCES OF GIANCANA THAT HE IS DEFINITELY MARRIED TO

PHYLLIS MC GUIRE, OF MC GUIRE SISTERS SINGING TEAM. DATE AND OR PLACE OF

THIS MARRIAGE IS NOT KNOWN TO THE INFORMANT. (U)

AS RESULT OF SURVEILLANCE CONDUCTED AT SPORTSMANS PARK RACE TRACK

MAY EIGHT LAST, DURING WHICH SEVERAL OF GIANCANA-S LIEUTENANTS, INCLUD-

ING SAM AND CHARLES ENGLISH, WERE OBSERVED OBVIOUSLY IN ACT-OF BOOK-

MAKING. ARMED AND DANGEROUS. UL)

END AND ACK PLS

REC-21

12-42 AM OK FBI WA BH

92-3171-722

EX. - 132

TU

TU PISM

MAY f651962

4

wete

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DocId: 32310818 Page 3

---

