# docid-32334015

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10008

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 2-0-362

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/14/1958

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

V9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32334015

Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 64.

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT.

TO

DIRECTOR; FBI (87-34982)

DATE:

5/14/58

FROM

:

SAC, PITTSBURGH (87-3694)

SUBJECT:

JOSEPH RAYMOND

MEROLA, Wa•j

M. FRIIGOOREPNONG

Joey Morello,

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

D::

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIED

DATELY -95 BY PSMAC

Attached is a letterhead memorandum dated May

14, 1958,

concerning JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA,

NEUTRALITY MATTERS.

The place where made was omitted from this memorandum as

additional protection to the Potential Criminal Informant

SALLY CARLTON, who supplied the information and who formerly

was a close associate of MEROLA in Miami, Florida, She

was interviewed during a recenttrip to Pittsburgh and it

1s possible that MEROLA might identify her as the source

if it was indicated that it was obtained in Pittsburgh.

It is being left to the discretion of the Bureau whether

information regarding MEROLA's alleged gun running activites

shall be disseminated to the appropriate agencies. It is

noted that MEROLA is a subject in a jewel theft investigation

captioned,

"CHESTER ZoCHOwSKI, was.; JOSEPH MEROLA, wa.,

-

IT'SP-MAJOR THEFT," office of origin Little Rock, Buffle

87-34982.

Other

information relating to MEROLA furnished

by PCI SALLY CARLTON being set out in cover letter enclosing

a report presently in dictation in this case.

A copy of the attached memorandum is forwarded to Miami and

to Little Rock for soformation.

MEROLA SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

- Little Rocky(Info) (Encl. -1)

2

_ Pittsburgh

REC-21

CAJ:mdg

(6)

2-0-362

8234702

23 MAY 13 1958

EX-138

523-19

EBI

NH 54027

DocId: 32334015

Page 2

---

