# docid-32201934

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10045

RECORDS SERIES :

CABLE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : FBI, NEW YORK

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

VICTOR MOMINDADOR ESPINOSA HERNANDEZ

DATE : 06/02/65

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

HERNANDEZ, VICTOR MOMINDADOR ESPINOSA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/12/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 335-2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53244

DocId: 32201934

Page 1

Date: 05/11/94

Page: 1

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NT 53244 Dete.

06-12-2017

---

## Page 2

PAGE TWO

URGING OF CUSELA, WHO MAS BEEN A LIFE-LONG FRIEND OF HIS. HE ALSO

STATED I: = INVOLVED IN THE PLOT WAS MAJOR JUAN ALMEIDA BOSQUE.

SPINOSA SAID: THAI CUBELA HAD RESIGNED FROM THE ARMED FORCES OF CUBA

AND IS NOW PRACIICING MEDICINE

AI THE CALIXTO GARCIA HOSPITAL IN

HAVANA AND HAS A HOME ADJACENT TO FIDEL CASTRO-S AT VARADERO

SEACH.

ESPINOSA ALSO ADVISED THAT HE WAS IN SPAIN FOR ONLY ABOUT TWENTY

CIA OFFICER

NOSE, LASTE NE CONTACTED OTHER QUEENS A mE 5

WHO IS IN CHARGE

OF THE CIA OFFICE S

CHANCER

CERTAIN DEGREE OF THIS PLOI, BUT THAI THE CUBANS DID NOT TRUST C

BECAUSE THEY CLARIED HE HAD BEENCOMPROMISED a

IDENTIEIG.S

OFFCAN

THIS INDIVIDUAL IS

POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH

IDONTIFIES OFFICER

ESPINOSA ADVISED THAT THE PLOT CALLS FOR THE ASSASSINATION OF

FIDEL GASTRO, RICE CASTRO, ERNESTO "CHE" GUEVARA AND RAMIRO VALDES.

INE ASSASSINATION 3E THESE INDIVIDUALS IS TO TAKE PLACE IN PUBLIC SO

INA: EVERYONE CAN SEE THAI THE LEADERS HAVE BEEN KILLED. THE PLOTTERS

¡TROPE TO SIZE ILE RADIO STATION AND CALL FOR AMERICAN HELP. ESPINOSA

SAID THAT CUBELA AND OTHERS ASSOCIATED WITH THE PLOT DESIRE TO KNOW

END PAGE THO

RECEIVED FROM

MAY 28 1976

HH 53244 DocId:32201934 Page 2

---

