# docid-32568059

## Page 1

Nr.

Bolmont

pra°

Brungardiar

Mr.

3:7p + 197

COis

Mr o

Zosen

Sullivan

Fian

Liz.

Wes

• Mr.

Kul'

- 051

Mr.

Ha

Yongley

April 1ü, 10.

Assistant

torney Gerrr."

Director.

11-1694

10-98/77-CONFIDENTIALY

Classified by SPaNe RAVEL TO CTM1 - ISC 1135(2)

AGENCIES

THES

Declassity on: DADE JFK

TOURING

claspective

Referenco is ridi to j ir lottor dated April 5,

PRATE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

HOW OTHERWISE.

IS

HEREIN

WHERE

Ison

Imont

8pet

Blahon

neod

weach.

He havo reviewed ci. files concerning the 100

ividuals naned in the referenced letter and,

, should the

APP

SHIP

DATE

_cont reach a final docision that cortaln individual

aars to Cuba should be Idensifiod to tho lougo Co.:1%c00

'moriCan Activitios (TOJA), we desiro that the Easi

ied be handled as

follor:

189

Ne would intorosa no objection from an fol standpointl

to the rolease of the idontities, birth dates and bizusalacos,

Inited States rosidencos and nots of travel to 2ud/0r fIC.

Cuba concerning the followir:

Juvenal Armando A fanco Lopez

Albeito Almirall

40-00

(ico krova as Alber a Folipo Almirall Lescano)

the" -rdo Arteaga

1-2,4.8

4-12-б.

Rodolfo Arbar

002

(also known as Rodolfo Aquiles Aybar Garcia)

-odore L Lancourt

Miguol Ble. tard

Morberto Frizos

Gabrict: Cartell

Aleid, "'agros Rosalia Cabrera y Hernandes

ORIGINAT FILED IN

Carl:

:.worto Caraballo

rbonell

A

5196 octor Carbonell

isnown as Carlos Carbonell Valdez)

БЛАВі

Richard Amas Cobb

Benon Colladai

Anthony Daza

4030 2222

1. refred Dominguez (Eiren)

Her

0 UMOR 9784888

son

LUvan,

vel

otter

HH 45823

-NC

105-7-210 (Travel Controls'-

• Cuba)

•n= cover meno

Wannall to Sullivan,

141/00g

captioned

¿ and Visa Matters - Cuba," proparod by Ralidju.

fiel

RAM ady wooN

TELETYPE UNIT

(17)

DocId: 32568059

Page

1

CONFIDENTIAL'

---

## Page 2

Mr, 3, Waltor Yeagley

CONHDENTIAL

Rogollo Ins4101101

(nI00 Erom en Doc-Ito FOOR)

Alber Rodriguos

Jorso Antondo Fodricuch Orihrola

Tallion Foroz Lodricaca

Marcos Armando

do Fantloco Hornandos

Jo3oh

Abram

Shapiro

Nurd Solaros

Iris Bolaros

Te

saguent

chas Diane 1a0.18,

who is 11atcd or 203

• = the rosaranced le cor, sos bo Includod in cry 110€

painbod to ECUA sinco ail

intoration concert

siloral trav01

Caba vas zoc01vod

Iron songstive sourced.

In tha cacos of Criando Marcolino Tanargo y Domingues;

Dago t90.

3r00112

Fiquoroz, page tro, the only intormation

concarine their

Indicatod 11locl

travel van received by

120n

the Depsrinent

ol Stato and, since 10 appoars tho

intomation originated with a foreieR soveranent,

We de 200

21 & DORIEST

EIvo

812

opinios as

to shothor thor nauce

should be included.

sussosted that you may coalro

Departmen

of Stero

zogarding then it you have

not alraady done

SED KSR 3-23-98 (JFK

John Dranley Poters,

pass thrco,

orienatod with Canadian

Immigration authorities

and Tog

furnishod to us by tho

In1100

Santos

Innigration and

Naturalization Bozvico

(INS).

Thug, you

desira

Const

concorDias the zolonso 02

ho reforonced lottor points out that the Internal

Dacurley Diviaton will not ariy tho identitles of any cources

to the MCUA, mnd we dosiro that chia position be maintainod vita

rogard to any IB. sources.

Chould you rocoive future zequesto

Leon the Cus to furnich the kion tied of nourges, no rouent

Chat no

bo adviead mhonovor our sces aro lavolved so that

our position concoming thoir artsfication can bo nado krown

to the Internal Bocurity Diviston,

CONFIBENTIAL

HH 45823 DocId:32568059 Page 2

---

## Page 3

[]

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEAENT INFORMATION SHKET (JEK MATERIALS)

Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions) .

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure.

All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[] Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

I] Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

[] Subsection 1C (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[] Subsection 2

(living person who provided

confidential information)

[] Subsection 3

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

(] subsection 4

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

Subsection 5

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized

[] Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

For your information:

REFERRED

The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

HQ 105-98177-3R0 NR 22

X00

X000xxxxxxx

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

xXxxxXXXXX

• xxxxxxxxxX

HH 45823

DocId: 32568059 Page

---

## Page 4

STANDARO FORM NO, BA

Office Memor adim • UNITED SIA 3S GOVERNMENT

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

DATE: April 9, 1963

Walter Yeagley, Assistant Attorney

General, Internal

Security Division

JECT:

TRAVEL TO CUBA - 8 USC 1185 (b)

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE/1-7-94 8 5P8MAGIK

Pursuant to the conversation between Mr. W. R. Wannal of

your Bureau and Mr. John H. Davitt of this Division,

there follows

a listing of individuals who have allegedly traveled to Cuba

a valid passport. Information concerning their

travel has been made available to us through Federal Bureau of

Investigation investigative reports and memoranda.

Representative Francis E. Walter, Chairman of the House

Committee on Un-American Activities, recently requested this

Department to make available to his Committee information con-

cerning persons who have traveled to Cuba in apparent defiance

of the State Department's travel ban. You may

' recall this subject

was commented upon by the President at a recent press conference.

In considering what information can be revealed to the Committee

without compromising confidential sources or interfering with

pending or contemplated investigations, we have tentatively con-

cluded

that we should not make available to the Comnittee at this

time the names of any persons whose travel is currintly being

investigated by the Bureau or whom we anticipate requesting you

to investigate. Likewise, we do not now plan to furnish the

Committee

the name of any

person where the only source of infor-

mation as to his travel was confidential.

However, we are considering the feasibility of furnishing

tho Committee names,

and certain identifying data, in all cases

where no investigation is pending or contemplated

and where the

source of information as to the travel is not specifically

identified as being confidential.

Information in this category

has come to the Bureau,

in the main, from friends and relatives

of the subjects, from domestic and foreign steamship lines, and

from statements

of the subjects to the Immigration and Naturali-

zation Service, to the Swiss Legation in Havana, Cuba, and before

public forums.

Where the name of a traveler is

to be furnished

the Committee we will not supply the identity

of any sources:

105-988

- 187

ORIGINAL FILED IN

RAM

4-12-43

RAM,

.0

89 6313

-- XEROX

APR 23 1963

NOT RECORD

199 APR 28.195

RE APR 23 1963

5 Ton

F

NH 45823 DooId:32568059 Page 4

---

## Page 5

= 2"

To assist us in reaching a determination in this

category of cases, the names of which follow, we would

appreciate having

the benefit of any comments you may wish

to express as to the effects, if any, such disclosures would

have upon the operations of your Bureau.

Juvenal Armando Alfonso Lopez

Alberto Almirall

(ala Alberto Felipe Almirall lescano)

Leonisa Anat

Abelardo Arteaga

Rodolfo Aybar

(aka Rodolfo Aquiles Aybar Garcia)

Hilõa Molinet Alanso

Diana Backus

Theodore Betancourt

Migusl Blancard

vErancisco Guillerno Blanco y Altman

Norberto Borges:

Gabriela Canteli

vEnilia Carbo Cabanas

Julio Cabanas, Jr.

v Julia Josephine Cabanas

Aleida Milagros Rosalia Cabrera y Hernandez

Jorge Heribecto

Caraballo

Carlos Carbonell

(aka Carlos Carbonell Valdez)

Hector Carbonel!

Richard Anos Cobb

Ramon Collada: i

Anthony Daza

Jose Diaz

•Maria Eulalia Diaz-Roca

DExen Dominguez

"Orlando Marcelino Fanargo y Dominguez

Agnes Tarley

Lois I'erguson

Ralph Anchony Ferguson

(aka Rafael Anthony Fernandez)

Carlos Fernandez

Gilberto Corsino Fernandez Guevara

¡Jesus Fernandez-lozzo

v Enoclia Figueroe

45823 DooId: 32568059 Page 5

---

## Page 6

12,3

George Berastegui Garcia

¿Jose E. Garcia

Joseph J. Garcia

Judith H. Garcia

-Louis Salvador Garcia

Onedia Christina Garcia

•Engracia Conzalez :

Manuel Gonzalez

Maria Gonzales y Losada

Ruben Gonzalez

Arthur Garfield Hassall

Maria Hassall

L Carlos

Hernandea

L Julieta Menendez Hernandez

Justo Vicente Espinosa Iglesias

Clarence Lee Jones

Lenna Schweitzer Jones

Bobby Joe Keesee

E Jesus Cupertino Gonzalez y Hernandez

Mirta Del Rosario Mora y Delgado De Torres

Eneline Hernandez

Sergio Leal

Jose

Antonio Lima

Joaquin Llerena

Segundo Sebastian Magraner

Erasmo Moises Mangauelle-Santana

Betty Colleen Michael

David William Michael, Jr.

Alejandro Milan

Concepcion N. Milan

Cesor Misas, JI.

James A: Moore, JI.

Patricia Ann Mora

Pearl Maria Negrette

Raul Ocampo

Rosario OrIOS

Delia Isabel Pares

Henry Augustin Perez

Jose Perez

Manuel Enrique Pereira Soler

1(aka Manuel Enrique Pereira) d

John Stanley Peters *

Steven Renovich

Olga Antonia Rios

NW 45823 DocId: 32568059 Paqe 6

---

## Page 7

:4

Mary. Rivera

Rogelio Roca-Guillot

(aka Rogelio Roca)

/Albert Rodriguez

Jorge Antonio Rodriguez Orihuela

(William Perez Rodriguez

David Cabriel Ruiz Rodriguez

i-Marcos Armando de Santiago Hernandez

Mark Dävid Schleifer

Estela Padron de Segredo

Ramon Segredo

Joseph Abram Shapiro

Edward Walter Shaw

- Edward Solares

LIris Solares

Oscar Somoza

Orlando Marcelino Tamarago

William A. Thomas

Marcelo Mario Triana y

•Page

• (aka Mario Triana,

Charles Valdez

Eusebia Mario Adrian Vera Mendoza

Jovita Lopez Weichinger

Karl Vladimer Weichinger

Robert F. Williams

74 45823

DooId: 32568059 Page 7

---

