# docid-32206583

## Page 1

Date: 08/16/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: NARA

RECORD NUMBER

179-10002-10136

RECORDS SERIES

WC DOCUMENTS REVIEWED BY FBI FOR HSCA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO

TITLE

LHM, WASHINGTON, D.C.

DATE

PAGES

: 08/17/64

:

2

SUBJECTS

LANE, MARK

VISIT TO DENMARK

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: C

RESTRICTIONS

: REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST

REVIEW

: 06/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

PP.

CD

1-2.

#1457

-----------

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50529

DocId: 32206583

Page 1

---

## Page 2

.*=;

In Reply, Please Refer 10

CONFIDENTIAL

Comm

SiOn NO. 1457

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGION, D.C. 20535

August 17, 1964

MARK LANE

On August 5, 1964, T-1, a confidential source abroad,

furnished information as follows:

MARK LANE entered Denmark April 9, 1964, from Rome

and stayed at the Hotel Royal in Copenhagen

on April 9 and

10, 1964.

On April 16, 1964, he re-entered Denmark from

London,

England, and he stayed at the Hotel Viking, Copenhagen,

April 16 and 17,

1964, and at the Hotel Skovriderkroen on

April 17 and

18, 1964. (C)

On April 10, 1964, LANE delivered a lecture to the

Students' Union in Copenhagen concerning the assassination of

President Kennedy. In this regara, I-l advised that a known

Danish communist, JORGEN THEILGAARD JACOBSEN, a lawyer, born

April 11, 1919, took the initiative in forming a Danish committee

for the main purpose of obtaining information on the continued

investigations into the assassination.

Further, this committee

intends to have translated and published a book which LANE is

writing on LEE HARVEY OSWALD'S

part or innocence in the murder. c)

JACOBSEN and LANE became acquainted sometime ago when:

attending the Congress of the International Association of

Democratic Lawyers in Budapest and they intend to continue the

contact, as MARK LANE will supply the Danish Committee with all

new material on the assassination.(C)

While in Denmark, MARK LANE was interviewed on April 28

1964, for eight minutes by the Danish State Television Service.(c)

In the middle of May, T-I received Information that

MARK LANE intended to visit Denmark again and during the after-

he delivered a lecture at

a meeting organized by the Lawyers' Debating Club. On the

evening of May 25, 1964, In Aarhus, Denmark, LANE delivered a

lecture to a meeting organized by the Students' Association and

the daily paper "Demokraten." (e)

CONFIDENTIAL

Group I

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

ALA iNFUSESTED CONTALEN

SERGIE IS UNC SSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

DiNGHWiSE

3-3-93

Classified by 9S03_RDe/iK5K

Deckssos ON. DADR

t, 19:5.

Eation e

Хорти.

i 4r

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

T-1 advised that these lectures vere similar to

his previous ones in that LANE gave an account of his

inquiries since the assassination in November and showed

why in his opiaion OSWALD could not have been the assassin(C

LANE also stated during the lectures that he had

visited Dallas, Texas, five times; that he was under sur-

veillance by the FBI, which tapped his telephones, and that

he was happy to have the opportunity of pleading

the cause

in Europe as he had gained the impression that this was

being reported by the press in the United States. (C)

LANE's comprehensive material on the assassination.

reportedly has been placed at the disposal of the Danish

Mark Lane Committee for the purpose of early publication.(C)

On May 26, 1964, LANE departed Copenhagen for Sweden,

France and England, where

he was also to deliver lectures. (C

T-l advised that Who Killed Kennedy Committees

have been established on LANE's initiative in Copenhagen,

Paris and London, all with prominent personalities as( c)

members.

According to T-I, LANE returned to the United States

on July 1, 1964.€J

CONFIDENTIAL

.;-?

-2 -

....

---

