# docid-32293198

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10210-10474

HQ

92-2713-351

Released under the John

Assassination Recorde

Collection Aet of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45855 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

KENNEDY, REGIS L.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/11/1963

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS:

CM, INDICTMENT, DEPORTATION, WRIT OF CORAM NOBIS,

BUSS AND CRIMINAL ACT, ASSOC AND REL, TRA, SOURCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/08/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45855

3

DocId: 32293198

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NO 92-36

RIK: sms

LEADS (Cont'd)

*AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA

1. Will follow prosecutive status, U.S. District

Court, Eastern District of Louisiana, on the

indictment

charging MARCELLO with Illegal Entry into the United States.

2. Will follow MARCELLO's deportation proceeding

with I&NS.

.3.

Will follow the disposition of the indictment

charging MARCELLO with Fraud Against the Government -

Conspiracy and Perjury.

Will follow the status of the appeal of the

Writ of Coram Nobis.

5.

Will maintain contact with Internal Revenue

Service for status of the Internal Revenue Investigation of

MARCELLO.

re MARCELIa's activitiet.

Will continue efforts to develop information

INFORMANTS

T-1 1s JOHN RYAN, Intelligence Division, Internal

Revenue Service, New Orleans, Loulsiana. His identity is

protected at his request.

T-3 1s PCI

JFK Act 6 (4)

who currently resides

at Ft. Lauderdale, Florida.

T-19 1s NO 1205.

ADMINISTRATIVE

AT SHREVEPORI, LOUISIANA

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TA$KOFElowing investigation was conducted by

ON _ 7/201989m

RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DEMAL

(COVER PAGE B)

NW 45855 DocId: 32293198

Page 2

---

