# docid-32314289

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10335-10216

RECORD SERIES:

BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-174-6-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: JENKINS

TO :

BU

TITLE:

DATE: 11/22/1963

'PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

FRED RANDACCIO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

-CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

07/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

N9.1

DocId: 32314289

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

United States Government

MEMORANDUM

NOV 221963

TO:

SAC (92-174) (P)

FROM:

SA FRANCIS B. JENKINS

FRED G. RANDACCIO

DATE:

Set forth below is information furnished by

BU 254-C* which was qualified on 9/24/63.

9/24/63

if she had heard from

The subject contacted DARLENE. GRANN and inquired

When told she had not the

subject stated he was wondering if GIN had heard from PAT.

It is possible that PAT 1S PASQUALE NAIARELLI.

9/25/53

CI furnished no pertinent information.

==

1 - 92-174 Sub 6 (Control File)

- 92-296 (P: NATARELLI)

92-337 (La Cosa Nostra'

- 92-372 (JOSEPH VALACHI

52-52 (JOHN C. MONIANA)

92-51

STEVE MAGADDINO)

- 92-443

(BENNY SPANO)

1

1

1

- 92-213 (DANIEL SANSANESE

92-421

(HERMAN WEINSTEIN'

92-54 (ROY CARLISI)

92-277

SALVATORE BONITO

1 -

92-300 (Graft and Corruption, NYS Counties,

FBJ: jmv

(13)

Searched... Indexed.

Searche

Serial NoW? 156

FBI BUFFALO

so 19-01-09-956

DocId: 32314289

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej*

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-174

10/19/63

cI furnished no pertinent information.

10/20/63 and 10/21/63

Information furnished by CI on these dates

will be subject of a separate memorandum.

10/22/63

GRANN advised the informant that a representative

of the Internal Revenue Service had been in her office

and had made a remark about the Italians.

She stated

that she told him that she was italian but had finally

admitted that she was not but was of German descent.

GRANI? stated that she was aware that the man

from the Internal Revenue Service knew she was the

subject's girl friend but she knew that he does not know

that she is aware of this.

Later GRANN related that GEORGE (SALVATORE

BONITO, aka George Raft mentioned that he was going

to take the car which had been impounded by the Federal

Government.

It appeared she was referring to the auto-

mobile owned by THoMAs cALLeA, which had been impounded

after a recent bookmaking arrest.

She stated she told

BONITO that he would be shot if he tried and that since

he was in his attorney's office at the time he shoul

ask for legal advice.

She stated that BONITO was

accompanied by DANNY (SANSANESE) at the time and that

he was told he was crazy if he tried.

appears that BONITO 1s represented by SALTEN RODENBERG,

the attorney.

The subject and GRANN then had a discussion

conceming a book dealing with JOSEPH KENNEDY, the father

of the President, and GRANN expressed the opinion that

the President and the Attorney General do not know what

to do since up until recently

their father has been

directing all their activities.

- 9-

DocId:32314289 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel**

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-174

10/23/63

CI observed subject and GRANN but furnished no

additional pertinent information.

10/24/63

The subject advised CI that he had been invited

to a dinner that night and mentioned the name KANE. This

possibly refers to a dinner given on behalf of the Democratic

candidate for County Executive JAMES L. KANE.

Later the subject and GRANN discussed BENNY

(SPANO ?)

who gives cleaning to someone to hanale and

makes $38 a day. They noted he has to pay $400 a month

for the cleaning and as a result, according to GRANN he

must have at least $175 a week to make anything.

In a discussion concerning a book which RANDACCIO

is reading and which may refer to a book previously

mentioned referring to the KenNeDy family, the subject

stated that it mentions prostitution. GRANN criticized

RANDACCIO for making this statement, claiming that he will

make such a remark in front of AL PACINI, who will read

the book and not seeing any reference in it to prostitution

will conclude that RANDACCIO is unable to read.

Later GRANN advised the informant that she 1s

25 years old but usually tells people that she is 21 or

22.

Subsequently in a discussion concerning cameras

RANDACCIO suggested that GRANN purchase one at Mason's

Camera Store which is near her place of employment. They

then had a discussion concerning Lesbians and GRANN

indicated that she had one experience with a girl naned

BARBARA (INU) at the time that GRANN was in the Good

Shepherd Home, at which time GRANN was 13 years old and

BARABARA had stayed at GRANN's home over night.

RANDACCIO later adrised the informant that he

could be contacted at approximately 12:45 AM on 10/25/63

at Snowball Panaro's Tavern.

-10-

DocId: 32314289 Page 4

---

