# docid-32298619

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY : . FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10222-10395

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3267-530

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case# :NU 45945 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

11/09/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/22/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45945

5

DocId: 32298619

Page 1

---

## Page 2

JEK Act 6 (4)

LA 92-113

The Las Vegas Office advised on 11/5/63 that at

approximately 9:30 p.m.

on 11/2/63 Special Agents of that office

observed ROSELLI in

the lounge of the Desert Inn Hotel sitting

at a table with

MORRIS KLEINMAN and NICHOLAS DANALEO, aKa

"PEANUTS."

POI, advised that the records of the

Cogan-Rety

Travel Bureau,

Beverly Hills, California, reflect that

on 7/18/63 FRANK SINATRA arranged for transportation for about

25 persons via WAL from Los Angeles to Reno; that later SINATRA

transported 10 of these persons to Cal-Neva Lodge at Lake Tahoe

It is recalled

departed Los Angeles on the morning of 7/18/63 and allegedly

went to Cal-Neva Lodge at Lake Tahoe; however, the means of travel

c01 at take alo

that. ROSELLI and MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN

has not been known.

The records of WAL reflect that 23 persons, identified

as "members of SINATRA party"

were scheduled to travel from

Ten of these persons were shown as

the remaining 13 were J. ROSELLI and an M. FRIEDMAN.

PCI, advised on 11/7/63 that MAURICE H.

FRIEDMAN

returned to

the Beverly Crest Hotel from Las Vegas over

the past weekend.

B. FRANK WILLIAMS, a part owner of the Hotel

Last Frontier Corporation, also returned to the hotel. l

said that the current negotiations in which FRIEDMAN and WILLIAMS

are involved concerns the Holidays Inns who have their main

office in Memphis, Tennessee, and that FRIEDMAN and WILLIAMS

recently made a trip to Memphis.

This transaction no doubt

pertains to previously mentioned plans of the Holiday. Inns

to build a hotel or motel adjacent to the New Frontier Hotel in

Las Vegas.

On 11/8/63 the Los Angeles Police Department advised on

that date they his accountant

that date they conducted a surveillance of ROSELLI and he visited

of his accountant on West Third Street and then went

to the building where JAMES P. CANTILION, an attorney, who has

been utilized by ROSELLI, has an office and

then proceeded to the

Hillcrest Country Club.

The Los Angeles Police Department advised

during the day on an occasion when ROSELLI was away from his car,

the officers were "going through" ROSELLI's car and he caught them

at it and became very angry.

- 2-

HIH

45945 DooId: 32298619 Page 2

---

