# docid-32316418

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10347-10038

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 92-2836-43

Released under the John

?. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Lasef:N0 45920 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

, TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/24/1960

PAGES:

33

SUBJECTS :

JAMES PLUMERI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF SSS

COMMENTS: RPT; TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES la-Ib, REFERRED TO SSS

v9.1

HH 45920

DocId:32316418

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Report Form

FD-263 (Rew. 5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

DATE

10/24/60

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

10/4 - 10/11/60

FRANK W. CORNETT

CHARACTER OF CASE

raz

JOSEPH ANTHONY

TYPED BY

ANTI-RACKETEERING

XXXX

SYNOPSÌS

REFERENCE

Bureau airtel to Albany, dated 8/25/60,

captioned

"CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE FROGRAM".

-C-

INFORMANTS

6/8/78.87,

Records of Selective Service

-Z-GOPIES MADE

Es CATE.

Headquarters, NYC, reviewed

4/ got the iro, a so at one

is moun th

(SCE BOFILE 64 V17290)

APPROVED

COPIES MADE

SPECIAL AGENT

* IN CHARGE

Bureau

(92-2036)

Newark

(92-391)

4- New York (92-686)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2836-43

11-1

064 08 1360

REG- 37

ICC4915

Cify sent to Grin Dio De 66D

PROPERTY

58 NOV 3

report de looped to you by the Fel, and reither it no is contents die to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

HH 45920

DooId: 32316418 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-686

INFORMANTS (CONTINUED)

NY T-2

NY I-3

NY I-4

NY T-5

NY I-5

NY T-7

NY 1-8

NY T-9

NY T-10

It. JACK THOMPSON, Ceatral

Investigations Bureau, NYCPD

contacted 12/12/57, by SA

GRIFFIN P. MARTIN.

WALTER DOUD, Senior Parole

Officer, NY

State Division of

Parole, 320 Broadway, NYC,

contacted by SA FRANK W.

CORNETT.

Mr. MARTIRE

Nat donai City Bang 2, non at

116th Sto, and First Ave.,

mc, contacted by SA FRANK W.

CORNETT.

Former POI JOHN ENGLISH, Elevator

Starter, 500 Seventh Ave.,

NYC, contacted by SAs FRANK W.

CORNETT and JOHN J. BRENNAN

JEK Law 11(a)

Dy che us accorney's Orfice,

SDNY on 12/12/57.

Mr. DAVID UNGER Bankers IruSt

c0., Branch at 39th st. anc

seventh Ave., NYC, contacted

by SA FRANK W. CORNETT

JOHN O'MARA, Chief Investigator,

NY State Anti-Crime Commission

Former PCI IRVING MISHEL

US Narcotics Bureau, NYC

-B -

COVER PAGE

HH 45920

DocId: 32316418 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-686

INFORMANTS (CONTINUED)

NY .T-11

NY T-12

NY #+13

NY T-14

NY T-15

NY T-16

NY T-17

NY 136-C contacted by SA

FRANK R. GERRITY

Records of the NYC Anti-Crime

commission (now defunst)

NY 842-C contacted by SA

JOHN R. ANDERSON and SA FRANK

F. GERRITY

CSNY -1 contacted by SA FRANK

W. CORNETT

NAT FLEISCHER, Editor of

Ring Magazine,contacted by

SA JOSEPH GAMBLE

NY 204-C, contacted by SA

JAMES J. TURBIDY and SA ARMAND

A. CAMMARATA

Central Intelligence Squad,

NYCPD

NY T-18

JOSEPH KATZ, Chief Investigator,

NY State Crime Commission,

contacted by SA JOHN J. DIXSON

careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed:

and I symbols were utilized inthe

report only in those instances where the identities of

the source must be concealed.

- C*-

COVER PAGE

WH 45920 DocId: 32316418 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Report Form

FD-263 (Rex. 5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

DATE

10/24/60

REPORT MADE BY

FRANK W. CORNETT

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

10/4 - 10/11/60

rar

TYPED BY

JOSEPH ANTHONY STRACI aka

ANTI-RACKETEERING

XXXX

SYNOPSiS:

1,20

REFERENCE

Bureau airtel to Albany, dated 8/25/60,

captioned "CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE FROGRAM".

-C-

INFORMANTS

NY T-1

ROPIES MARES BATE. 6/3/78 Br

For Rente a come amoros

(SEE BUFILE 66 147290)

Records of Selective Service

Headquarters, NYC, reviewed

In 1954, by

Special Agent

the

NYO.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

• IN CHARGE

Bureau

(92-2836)

Newark

(92-391)

4- New York (92-686)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2836-43

REG 31

67-125

00 1960

Copy sent to him Did Do o6D

5301

PROPERTY

50 NOV 4

report " dated to you by the FBl, and neithor it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agerey do which loaned.

45920

DooId:32316418

Page 5

---

## Page 6

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of: FRANK W. CORNETT

Date:

10/24/60

Field Office File No: 92-686

Office: New York, New York

Bureau File No: 92-2836

Title:

JOSEPH ANTHONY STRACI

Character: ANTI-RACKETEERING

synopsis: Subject born January 1, 1906, in sicily, and

naturalized 11/7/45, NYC. Married CECILE M.

RAO, 6/10/34,

and has a daughter and son by

this marriage.

subject allegedly has another

son, JOSEPH THOMAS SIRACCI ,who was sentenced

to ten to twenty years at sing sing Prison

8/10/50, for robbery, unarmed.

brother, SALVATORE sentenced to six months

and placed on probation after arrest in policy

raid.

subject resides Englewood, New Jersey,

part owner oi Do Zimet, Incorporated, a

NYC manufacturer of

women's

coaus and suits.

East Harlem Italian mob and a power in the

garment district.

subject atfiliated with D.

Zimet Incorporated; Jovon Fashions Incorporated;

NYC ladies garment

manufacturers. Description

set out.

This document contains neither recommendations nor con-

clusions of the FBI.

It 1s the property of the FBI and is

loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency

HH 15920 DocId:32316418 Page 6

---

## Page 7

NY 92-686

Details:

I. PERSONAL HISTORY AND BACKGROUND

A. Birth

The records of NY I-l reviewed in 1954, reflect

that subject indicated in 1940, that he was born at san

Fortello, Messina, Italy, on January 6

was not

a citizen

time he was a cicizen or subject of Italy, and that his

permanent address has been in the United

States since

March 11, 1907.

On February 26, 1958, DE. COSTANTINO FONTANA,

centra. Bureau, Italian Criminal Police, Romes Italy,

advised that JOSEPH ANTHONY STRACI was born January 1,

1906, at San Fratello, Messina, Sicily. The parents

were

listed as ANTONIO and MARIA LO BALBO.

3. Naturalization

On December 6, 1957, the naturalization records

of the United States District

courts Southern District

of New York, were reviewed by SA WALTER C. ZINK, and re-

flected the following information:

JOSEPH ANTHONY STRACI filed Petition for

Naturalization Number 377018 in this court on April 30,

1941, and was denied naturalization on July 24, 1945.

He was described as being 35 years of age, born January 6,

1906, at can Frotello, Italy. He indicated that he

entered

the United states on April 25, 190% at New York

City, via the "SS ITALIA"

, under the name GPPE DI ANTONIO

STRACI. The following persons were witnesses for the

subject and indicated that they had known him since April 1,

1931:

: - 2-

НН 45920 Do0Id:32316418 Page 7

---

## Page 8

NY 92-686

On December 12, 1957, NY T-2 made available

the following description of CECILE STRACI, wite of the

subject:

Name

Date

of Birth

Race

weight

height

Eyes

Hair

CECILE STRACI

December 2, 1909

White

130

poundi

5151

BrOWn

Black

In March, 1958, Detective TOM RYAN, Englewood,

New Jersey Police Department advised SA BERNARD J.

PIROG, JR. that JOSEFil STRACI is known at Engiewood in

New Jersey as a respectable citizen who is engaged

the garment manufacturing business at New York City. His

wife, CECILE, is a housewife who leads a normal life

at Englewood, New Jersey. STRACI'S son RONALD 1S

presently a student at the Fordam University Law School

at New York City.

his daughter, CECELIA, is presently

attending Immaculata College at Malvern,

Pennsylvania.

On March 5, 1958, Sister MARGARET MARY, Registrar,

Immaculata College, Malvern, Pennsylvania, advised SA I.

EDWARD UMPERES that CECELIA STRACI, Woodland Road, Engle-

wood, New Jersey, is & sophomore

at this girl's college

and she resides in Lourdes Hall, a dormitory on the campus.

D. Relatives

In 1944, STRACI indicated to NY I-I that his

relatives consist of the following persons:

Wife

CECILE MARIE STRACI, born

December 2, 1911, Residence

2276 Second Avenue, New York

City

- 4 -

HW 45920 DocId: 32316418 Page 8

---

## Page 9

NY 92-686

Son

Daughter

Mother

Brother

Mother-in-Law

Brother-in-Law

Brother

Brother-in-Law

Brother-in-Law

Sister-in-Law

RONALD AO STRACI,

born June 26,

1935, resides 2276 Second

Avenue, New York City

CECILE M. STRACI, born

January 24

1939,

resides

2276 second Avenue, New York

City

MARIE STRACI, age 09, resides

230 East 100th Street, New

York City

BENJAMIN STRACI,

age 26,

resides 241 East 108th Street,

New York City

FRANCES RAO, age 60

resides

455 East 114th Street,

New York City

LOUIS RAO, age 45,

resides 455 East 114th Street,

New York City

SALVATORE STRACI, age 54,

resides 238 East

106th

street, New York City

VINCENT RAO

age 38,

455 East 114th street, New

York City

JOE RAO, age 44.

419 East 110ch Street, New

York City

NETTI PESANO, age 40,

Resides Bronx, New York

- 5 -

HH 45920.

DocId: 32316418 Page 9

---

## Page 10

NY 92-686

Date

February 18, 1929

March 4, 1929

April 12, 1939

May 22, 1941

Address

313 East 107th Street

New York City

313 East 107th Street

New York City

2276 Second Avenue

New York City

2276 Second Avenue

New York City

on December 23, 1957, NY T-3 advised their

records reflected subject's address as 2276 Second

Avenue, 335 East 1loth Street, and a business address of

500 Seventh Avenue, all in New York City, for the

period May 1943 - December 3, 1952.

Go Employment:

In 1940, subject indicated to NY T-] that he

was the owner of

the Metro-Urban Trucking Company, 205

West 57th Street, New York City.

In 1944, STRACCI advised Ny T-1 that he was

employed as the Production Manager of Zimray, Incor-

porated, 512 Seventh Avenue, New York City.

The records of the Credit Bureau of Greater

New York, as fürnished on December 6, 1957, by PAULINE

DE FIORE tO SA PAUL F. ROWLANDS, reflect a

credit

report dated May, 1951, pertaining to JOSEPH A. and CECILE

STRACCI, 80 South Woodland Road, Englewood, New Jersey.

This file indicates that SIRACCI has been employed for

- 10 -

HH 15920 DooId:32316418 Page 10

---

## Page 11

NY 92-686

the past 11 years as General Manager of D. Zimet,

Incorporated, 500 Seventh Avenue, New York City.

NY I-5 who was contacted regularly during

subject was in

Incorporated,

on the 12th floor at 500 Seventh Avenue, New York City,

daily during that period.

No 1-5 said that subject

normally arrived at about 8:45 a.m. and departed irregularly

usually after 5:45 p.m.

NY T-5 said that after the death of subject's

the necessity for him to manage the business.

H. EDUCATION

In 1940, STRACCI indicated to NY I-l that his

education consisted of eight years of elementary schooling.

I. Financial Information

On December 12, 1957, NY I-6/

According to NY 1-6

JEK. Law 11(a)

In Decemoer 23, 1957, NY T-4 advised that subject

nad a regular checking account at the First Nationa.

City Bank, branch at 1loth Street, and First Avenue,

New York City. He stated the account was opened in

- 11-

NH_ 45920 DocId: 32316418 Page 11

---

