# docid-32202011

## Page 1

Date: 06/27/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10122

RECORDS SERIES :

REPORT

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : DREW, WILLIAM MAYO

TO :

TITLE :

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY (SNFE)

DATE: 06/21/63

PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS :

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY

SNFE

ALPHA 66

CUBA

ASSASSINATION PLOTS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 2, 4, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/27/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

box 377

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50529

DocId: 32202011

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SSCI BOX # 377-

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

OFFICI OF ORIGIN

MLAMI

TITLE OF CASE.

L SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF..

ESCAMBRAY (SNFE)

(OPERATION ALPHA 66)

DAJUN 2 1 1963 INVESTIGATIVE PERIOO:

16/5-15/63

REPORT MADE SY

WILLIAM MAYO DREW

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - RA - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

TYPED D

WMD : J:

REFERENCE:

Report of SA WILLIAM MAYO DREW, 6/6/63

REQ. REC'D..

AUG 2 8 1964

So chicago"

ANS.

BY:.

Milia

36°

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DERERADS

HICAGO Veren

At Chicago, Illinois

mn9/20/63

des of

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFCATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIONE

AN THIS DOCUMENT. GMBZ/4/q4

9803RDD/ RDD/g6l 2/7/94 JFK,

W11l contact Northwestern National Bank of Chicago,

to locate the account of "ALPHA 66 - MRP - II FRENTE," not-

ing that a check in the amount of $1,250 was drawn on that

zation. in Miami.

FAROVED

account and deposited in the account of the subject organi-

This account should be checked to determine

SPECIAL AGENT

COPIES MADELi

IN CHARGE

12

Bureau

L - Chicago

(105-112098) (RM)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOV

(105-14604) (RM)

2 - Newark (105-13300) (RM)

- CIA, Miami

10511/2098+298

(RM)

1

INS; Miami (RM)

• U.S.

1.

Coast Guard, Miami (RM)

• JUN 24 1963

REC- 115

U.S. Customs, Miami (RM)

(Additional copies next page)

Dissemination Record of Attached Roport

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

Norottons

Copy 10: CLA/siate/1402 u

ONT/OSI/AESI

Citin

by roung shu dot into.

Dater.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERCIN

S UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2/8/94

ASY 2803200 CEl

instil to sac, M. inatton nirts:?.

is preven

cial; > -1:63

your Conni"

response to your regret and is not for temit-

e eat the contend may not

suee is limited to ninal pro..

1 7K

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

be wisclosed to vinitior a persong 4

NH 50529

DooId: 32202011

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SSCI BOX #

377-

MM 105-6243

COPIES (Continued)

1

1 - Office of Coordinator, Dept. of State, Miami (RM)

- ONI, Miami (RM)

1

1

- OSI, 6th District, Robins AFB,. Ga. (RM)

1

- G-2, Headquarters 3rd Army, Ft. McPherson, Ga. (RM)

- U.S. Border Patrol, Miami (RM)

7 - Miami (2-105-6243)

(1-105-1742)

1-905-3507)

(1-97-327)

(1-105-1360)

the source of funds of the organization, if possible, as

well as any disbursements in the Chicago area, particu-

larly with regard to the purchase of arms.

NEWARK

At Union City or Hoboken, New Jersey

Will contact the Hudson Irust Company, Union

City - Hoboken, New Jersey, to locate the account of

BRAULIO VILLARREAL, noting that a check in the amount of

$1,600. drawn on this account was deposited to the account

of the subject group in Miami. The account number on the

photostat of this check, made available in Miami, 18 not

clearly legible, but appears to be 5-07511.

MIAMI

At Miams, Florida

• B.

COVER PAGE

145

NW 50529 DooId: 32202011 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SSCI BOX #

377-

MM 105-6243

1. Will maintain a weekly check on the account

of SNFE at the Boulevard National Bank.

26 Will Interview ERNESTO DIAZ, 552 N.W. 318t

Street, in an effort to obtain any data regarding the

May 19, 1963 raid conducted by the SNFE.

3. Will also locate and Interview RENE CRUZ

lperEZ, for the same purpose.

•4. Will consider the advisability of a dis-

creet contact at the Standard 011 Station, 4420 N.W. 7th

Avenue, to determine if subject group is purchasing gas

from that station.

5. Will consider locating and contacting RAMON

GONZALEZ, IGNACIO MARTINEZ and the West Indies Iravel

Service, for pertinent information regarding activities of

• this group.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Efforts were made to contact DIAZ and CRUZ on

June 11 and 12, 1963, with negative results.

DIAZ 1s obviously still working to complete

construction of a hull purchased by SNFE, as well as on

an older boat with registration FL 8694E, listed to

RICARDO CURBELO, member of the SNFE. Miami 1s checking

this address twice daily to verify the continued presence

of these boats at that address, and to observe the pro-

gress of the work on them.

A neighborhood source, y

the only non-Cuban in

COVER PAGE

Sower

146

HH 50529 DocId:32202011 Page 1

---

## Page 5

Juli BOX #

377-

50me

MM 105-6243

area, has been developed in an effort to give additional

coverage about these boats. Ekin can vlew the boats

from the rear windows of his house, and has agreed to

promptly advise of any indication they are about to be

moved.

RICARDO CURBELO 18 the subject of Miami f1le

105-6685 and is under investigation for alleged pro-

CASTRO connections.

Bureau approval for interview with him has

been obtained, and following completion of the interview

regarding these allegations, he will be questioned re-

garding the above boat and his activity in the SNFE.

In connection with MM Io4,&

souse

Sad-

vised he has been a long time personal friend and

associate of ANTONIO VECIANA

and that VECIANA odened the

•SNFE account throught

personally.

said In

be 18 a Cuban national in the United States as a political

exile, and said that while his sympathies are definitely

•with this group and their efforts to do something against

CASTRO, he nevertheless, as an officer of the bank, will

cooperate fully in furnishing the information availabla.

Pwas formerly an officar with the Flist National

City Bank of New York in 1ts Havane Office for ll years.

Thie report 1s classified SECRET a8 It ContAIns

information fron a CIA raporE so classified.

Do original FD 302

getting forth information

Man 18 maintained

10 мм 105-6243.

Sonn

•D•

COVER PACE

NH 50529 DocId: 32202011 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SSCI BOX #

377-

MM 105-6243

INFORMANTS

• Identity

MM T-1.

MM T-2 -

Location

105-6243-580

Used to document

MM T-3 -

105-6243-583

Instant report,

, page

4

Instant report,

page 7

COVER

*

PAGE

14,5

50529

DocId: 32202011 Page 6

---

