# docid-32329565

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90086-10222

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-7824-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 03/18/1969

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH STEIN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

TT

v9.1

NH 45959

DocId: 32329565

Page 1

---

## Page 2

..."

RA

ắr.

Bishop.

Nir.

if r.

Caoper.

Callat

I't.

Grie

Sailiven

1: HINT.

Boona

Mise Limes

Mic Croiy

WA

Josephy. OStein

404PM

EOM

URGETE 3-18-59

• EOM

TO DIRECTOR

CODE

FROM CHICAGO

(137-4696)

3P

OTHER 4

Prosen

TESIP .

CO CHICAGO.

RECONIACTED MARCH SIXTEEN AND SEVENTEEN LAST

AS FEDERAL

PENITENTIARY, TERRE HAUTE, INDIANA BY CHICAGO

AGENT.

AS BUREAU AWARE,

WAS CLOSE ASSOCIATE SAM

GLANCANAS MARSHALL CAIFANO AND SEVERAL OTHER UPPER

SCHOLON LEADERS ORGANIZED. CRIME IN CHICAGO.

ON ONE OF PREVIOUS CONTACTS HE ADVISED THAT HE

HAD BEEN INFORMED BY SEVERAL OF HIS ASSOCIATES IN

ORGANIZED CRIME INCLUDING WILLIAM "WILLIE" MESSINA,

JOSEPH "GAGS" GAGLIANO AND TONY SPILOTRO THAT THERE

HAS BEEN A "MORATORIUM" ON GAGLAND SLAYINGS IN CHICAGO.

AREA FOR PAST TWO YEARS OR SO FOR REASON THAT CHICAGO

: MAR 27. 1969,

GROUP WANTED TO PLAY DOWN THEIR IMAGE AS KILLERS SINCE

END PAGE ONE

92-7824-

NOT RECORDED

128 MAR 27 1969

1j1!

3/19/69

- ry 9 MAR 2 8 1969

ENCLOSURE

ORIGINAL, FILED IN

NW 45959 DocId: 32329565 Page 2

---

## Page 3

OTHER 4

PAGE TWO CG 137-4596

PUBLIC HAD BECOME AROUSED OVER NUMEROUS KILLINGS AND

COURTS WERE BEING INFLUENCED BY THIS IMAGE TO REFUSE APPEAL

BONDS, GIVE HEAVIER SENTENCES, ETC.

ADVISED HE HAD SPECIFICALLY BEEN ADVISED BY

NESSINA THAT ONE OF REASONS

FOR "MORATORIUM ON HITS"

VAS APPEAL OF FELIX"I

MILWAUKEE PHILOZALDERISIO WHICH HAD

BEEN PENDING IN U.S. SUPREME COURT• SINCE ALDERISIO

KNOWN IN CHICAGO AS CHIEF "HIT MAN", CHICAGO GROUP DID

NOT DESIRE TO CONTINUE PREVIOUS FAST PACE OF KILLINGS DUE

7O THEIR BELIEF SUCH WOULD PREJUDICE SUPREME COURT AGAINST

ADLERISZO.

ADVISED MESSINA TOLD MIM ON THAT OCCASION:

"WAIT UNTIL PHILLY GET REVERSED. ME'LL SHOW. THESE STOOL

PIGEONS WHO HAVE BEEN BLOWING OFF THAT THINGS HAVEN°T

REALLY CHANGED AFTER ALL.*

ALSO ADVISED BY SPILOTRO, UNDERLING OF ALDERISIO,

THAT WHEN

ALDERISIO'S CASE WAS REVERSED, AS ALDERISIO WAS

END

PAGE TWO

NW 45959 DocId:32329565 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAGE THREE CG 137-4696

S. * IT WOULD DE, "THINGS WILL BE STRAIGHTENED. OUT.

JHENS WILL BE SOME MORE TRUNK JOBS THEN.*

NOW ADVISES HE UNDERSTANDS THAT WITH - RECENT

SUPREME COURT DECISION ON ALDERISIO CASE "THE MORATORIUM

IS OFF" AND POLICY OF ORGANIZED CRIME IN CHICAGO WILL.

REVERT BACK TO PHYSICAL VIGLENCE AGAINST ANYONE WHO

VIOLATES TIME HONORED PRECEPTS. OF CODE OF UNDERWORLD.

ALSO ADVISED CONTRIBUTING TO DECISION OF

MAtRon! MaD TO DECLANE "MORATORIUM" WAS APPEAL. BY

CAr SOFTAGLIA, WORMER TOP LEADER OF ORGANIZED CRIME IN-

CHEG.00, WHICH HAD BEEN PENDING IN EFFORT TO HAVE

BATTAGLIA RELEASED ON APPEAL BOND. HOWEVER, U.S,

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS HAS AFFIRMED BATTAGLIA'S

CONVICTION AND CHICAGO GROUP IS APPARENTLY CONVINCED

THAT BATTAGLIA'S APPEAL HAS SMALL CHANCE OF PREVAILING

AT HIGHER LEVEL•

ADVISED GANGLAND SLAYINGS WILL NOW RECOMMENCE

AND THAT RECALCITRANT HOODLUM FIGURES WHO HAVE BEEN SPARED

PHYSICAL VIOLENCE DURING "MORATORIUM" WILL NOW BE DEALT

WITH.

OTHER 4

CHICAGO CLOSELY FOLLOWING THIS SITUATION AND BUREAU

WILL BE KEPT ADVISED, LAM FOLLOWS WITH COPY TO USA, CHICAGO•

END

LRC FBI WASH DC

NW 45959 DocId: 32329565 Page 4

---

