# docid-32192370

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10257-10304

RECORD SERIES: NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-65721-1262

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, WMFO

TO:

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/09/1972

7

Released under the John

• Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53244 Date:

06-12-2017

LHO, RP, SUICIDE ATTEMPT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

y9.1

HH 53244 DocId: 32192370 Page 1

---

## Page 2

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Washington, D.C.

20535

Februany 9, 1972

CLASSIFED BY S

666 SL0

DECLASST

3025x C

zbl

Piesertet

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

TO

DECLASSIFISATION AND/OR,

EONSTANTDI DIRTIOVICA DURAS,

RELEASE OF & INFORMATION

Also Kron As

EXCLAY NIRDLAYEVZOL

N THIS DOCUMENT ASSANTIZE

<30197

WE To1, & formor offleen of the Soviet Comittee of

State Security (RGS), whose bana fides has not been establiahso,

but who has fuminted zeliable infernation in tha pact, hac

Furaished the folloning Infomatton coneersing Konstantis

Mikacovich Dubas to UP To%, snother Government agency which

conlucts Inselligence imestigations.

Ostor to mid-1957 Duhas hod worked in Dogartment &

of the Kan Sacond Chick Dincetorate (SC0) meny years. To lad

served in Deportrent & as a Coso 01f1e2%, Sender Case Offloar,

Section Chlot, end Deputy Depastmone Chief. Tron ntá-1957 te

1959 or 1960 Dubas sored as Chief of Departant 7, 5Q.

1960-1961 he was Chief of Department 9 md fos the

decond port

of 1961 ho was Chef of the Coumalat Party Sovtet Unlon

Ongontation for the SC. From 1952 Dubsa vas Chios of

231

Departent 6, SCo, end at that sina hold the reat of Colanal.

Ga ochastons

while engaged ta K98 operations; Dubas sacd the

of Ikolas Mitoleovich,

1-l cvieed It 1-2 shot in 1956 Dubes discussed

Mild case vien Sectien 1 Chief Sorgey Bustev and

• vas dodided Section I maded a baoscual agent ainsa

Departnonty did not bave one.

Dubes vas the Senior officos pozacally, imrolved in

1957 in the rocruitment of Japonane BCD Agent Odo

erna Rengo,

peshaps uith Anstolly Foslov, for Doportrone 7,

SECRET

GROUR

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and declassification

105-65322

du clang

4, 3,

SEARCHED

5, 4;

2 INDEX

RIALIZED ALFILED

FEB 141972

FBI - NEW YORK

NW 53244 DocId: 32192370

Page 2

---

## Page 3

KONSTANTIN NIKITOVICH DUBAS

Soviet Socialist Republies (USSR). On his first trip, Nielsen&,

was suspected of being either an agent or an operationel con-

tact of Central Intelligence Agency (CLA) when its survelliance

uncovered his contact with sone "Teddy Boys," wE T-l's term

for Stilyagi.

Some of the "Teddy Boys" were questioned by the

xes and reveated that telsen was willing to pay cash for a

Moscow telephone directory.

Mr Tol proposed that the Stllyagi

be given a telephone book to pass to Melsen as this would

Interest CIA and not be any less to Soviet Security. Hoveves,

Dubas, then Chief of Department 7 and e stubborn Ukratnian

refused to do this although VP I-I told Dubas that ClA either

already had the Moscow telephone dizectory or could eestly

acquire one. However, Dubas would not agree.

In 1957 the Personnel Depertnent of KCB preposed

that Michael Sunsloy be transferred fron the First Chief

Directorate (FCD) to be Chief of Section 7 (6) of Departent

7, SCD, Dubas accepted the proposal,

In 1957 VP I-1 was ordered by Dubas to escort St

of Culture in the Foreign Department.

l T-l turther infored i Tot that Hikolay Arhipov,

who worked in the Tourist Section against Scandanailan tourists

was the case officer for gil Sundar, Horvegian corresponseat. XX)

After Sundarwas atreated

Dy ene Titia for black market

activity, he was recrulted by Dubas, Chief of Lepartent 7,

with enother Departuent / orsicer.

Dubas had observed the

party of VE I-1, Kler

Gorbunova, Sundar, and Aleksandra Lent

Name Unknown (IND) .

Duba supervised the

prontsing photo-

graphs of (sundarlor Aleisandra.

KGB age

Vr I-I identifted a phetograph of Wirell Krafuho

783

in Bussie

as a United States tourist la 1956,

11956 ,

or 1963. (Kraft) was approached in 1958 by Dubas and

again by

185

3E6RST

NW 53244 DooId: 32192370

Page 3

---

## Page 4

KONSTANTI

UAKITOVICH DUDAS

Dubas in 1962 or 1963 at which time Dubas was necompanted by

another officer fron his Departaent.

In 1958 Dubas was Chief

of Depertuent 7 and in 1962 or 1963 when (Kraft) returned to

Russia, Dubas was Chief of Department 6.

VI T-1 explained

that Dubas was invited to approach Kraft) in 1962 or 1963

because he had talked to raff] prevlously when with Department K

7. Informant belteved soreone fron Department 6 accompanted

Dubas when he approached Kraft in 1962 gr 1963 but in 1958

TES

Dubas, mo spoke no Inglish, talked to Leart alone, probably

through furly Beltkey, an interpreter, at the Grand Hotel.

About 1950 Dubas mede e trip with four Soviet

Aeroflot representatives to several countries as a guest of

Scandanevian Airlinas.

Inferent did not kney whether Dubas

travelled on this eccasion under his trus nams.

Intorant

explained that Dabas was imited by Department 7 to act fer

it then he was Chief of Departmont 6 because of his previous

experience.

WE T-1 furnished the following comments concerning

ne case ot bernary rechter

mich occurned ia Russia in 1957:

Informant stated Vladimir Ivanov from the 7th Fepart-

went, SCD, worked ageinatechter. Inforant stated that

possibly Dubas worked with Ivanov in the kch recrultment

approach to (Pechter.

vas noted that Dubas did not speak

English but Ivanov did.

WE T-l us furiched the descriptions of three indi-.

viduals previously deseribed by Pechter]as Soviets involved

in the recruitnent approach to him, one being a homosexual,

another the KGS case officer who spoke no English, and another

KGs "translator" who assisted the case officer.

WE T-1 advised

that the description of the case officer possibly fit Dubas

and the description of the translator could possibly refer to

Vledinir Ivanov.

SIXCTIC

NW 53244 DooId: 32192370

Page 4

---

## Page 5

KONSTANTIN

ITOVICH DUSAS

SEGABY

Bernard Pechter had edvised Special Agents of the

Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) In 1969 that he hed been

compronised through honesexual activities by the Soviet

Intelligence Sezvice during a visit to the USSR in 1959 and

that be had then agreed to cooperate with the Soviets. During

an FBI Interview Pechter]identified a photograph of Konstantin

Wikitovich Dubas as "The Chiaf" or case officor. lie advised

the photograph of Ivanov appeared fanillar to hin and belleved

he resembled the *KCB translator.*

WE T-2 furnished MY I-1 with & copy of the 1960

Moscow telephone directory (English) for review to deteraine

if he could identify any people listed therein as ROF per-

sonnel or other individuals of interest to the United States.

The informant identified one Adanov of the Radio Comittee

as a KGB officer of lepartment 7 who

was worked by Dubas.

wa: "47."

Peter

VP T-1 advised that Willian, Tarasia, & policeman

fros lew York City, visited Russia IT 1930 Or 1959.

Taraska

hed relatives in the Ukraine and Senior Case Officer Michael

Vinogrador worked agalast him.

Tareske asked Intouriet in

Moscoy about the possibility of visiting his reletives who

lived sonewhere in the Ukraine. The SCD of the Ukraine made

contact with Tarasia because of his request for permiasion

to visit his reintives who restdad in a closed district in the

Ukraine. They *conditioned" a meeting in Moscow, shere Dubas,

Chief of Departnent 7 net with his. VP I-l advised that Dubas

met with Taraska once or tuice in Moscow and Tazaska was con-

sidered recruited by the KGB.

Vr I-l further advised UP T-2 that Dubas met Taraste

in Moscow but informent did not know 1f Dubas was alone or

accompented or if this was the only contact Dubas had wich

Taraske®

Informant speculated that Dubas took the Taraske

case perhaps because Dabas was called directly from Kiev,

when the KGB was in first contact with Taraste, er to show

activity as l'epartnant Chief, or because he thought case

looked easy, or because he vas Ukrainian and could speak

SECISI

NW 53244 DooId: 32192370 Page 5

---

## Page 6

KONSTANTIN NIKITOVICH DURAS

The informant related that Dabes earrled compromising

photographs (homosexual activities) of Gerard Maximillan

Nextens, a tourist in Moscow in July of August, 1959 when

reporting to Oleg

* Gribanov: therefore, HF Tal did not have

these photographs avatlable to use when he talked tolertens

at Uzghored.

At the end of 1959 WE I-l was promised the Order of

Red Manner, but instead with three others fron Department 7

received only awards and official thanks. The three other KGB

Individuals vere Mikhail Leonov, Vladinir Chelnokoy, and

Konstantin Nikitovich Dubas.

The informent advised that Fubas, as Chief of

repartment 1, Lept comproutsing photographs of Johanta loss

in his safe.

Rosgiwas an American tourist who was In RussTa

in the late 1950°g.

The KGB Department 7 worked against ber

and obtained compromising photographs of(her]vith KGs officer

"Genrikh."

rename )

Infomant advised that in October 1963 Dubes was

Colonel in the KCB and was nong the officers seerching for

Aleksandr Nikolayevich Cherepanov, & retired KGB officer,

city of Baka, Azerbaijan

Republic where ha arrested

Cherepanoy who had passed KC3 papers to an American tourist

who was visiting Internattonal Book where Cherepanov wes

working.

then interrogated by VT T-2 regarding the Eighth

Directorate which handled codes and elphers, informant advised

that in the Secretariat of the SCD there was a group of three

or four officers who prepared spectel reporte for the Central

Committee:

Nikolal lenskov was one of the officers in this

group.

Before 1954 Zenskov worked in the SCD, In 1954 he

moved to Department 1, SCD and then was taken into the above

group where he was still working in January 1964, Inforsant

related that sone materials intercepted by the above group

SECRET

NW 53244 DooId: 32192370

Page 6

---

