# docid-32303166

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10283-10178

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2918-3RD NR 103

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/23/1961

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

SMO, GM, ASSOC, GAMBLING, MONITOR, TELCAL, .

FEDERAL AGENCIES, PA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32303166

Page 1

30

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotel:

Mr. Tolson

DAT 1 017

Mr. Belmont.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF 'N

GIGANION

V. S. DEPARIWENT UF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

.OCT2, 3 1961

TELETYPE

Mr. Mohr-

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans.

Mr. Malone

Mr.

Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

URCENT

10-23-61

7-01

PM EDST

DLH

TO DIRECTOR, FBI

92-2914

92-2918

FROM SAC, PITTSBURGH 92-236

92-228

CABRIEL MANNARINO, AKA., AR. SAMUEL MANNARINO, AKA., ARO

SEVERAL YEARS, INFORMANTS HAVE ADVISED THAT MANNARINO

ORCANIZATION HAS HAD TELEPHONE OPERATORS IN THE NEW KENSINGTON;

PA•, AREA MONITOR CALLS TO ANY FEDERAL AGENCY IN PITTSBURGH.

ON OCTOBER TWENTYTHREE, INSTANT, PG SIX ONE TWO C ADVISED THAT

ONE SUCH OPERATOR IS THE WIFE OF PAREN TUCKER END PAREN GALLION•

IT IS NOTED THAT CALLION WAS ARRESTED BY IRS AGENTS ON AUGUST

TWENTYFOUR LAST DURING RAID ON MANNARINO GAMBLING CASINO-

HORSE ROOM IN NEW KENSINGTON AND HE IS NOMINALLY PRESIDENT OF

THE MANNARIN® AFTER-HOURS JOINT IN THAT CITY KNOWN AS THE BACHLOR-ES

CLUB. EFFORTS WILL BE MADE TO ESTABLISH VALIDITY OF THIS INFO

A

RMATION AND ASCERTAIN IF VIOLATION EXISTS. BOTH SUBJECTS SHOULD

BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS •

CORP LINE SO LAST WORD SH BE " BACHLOR-S*

CORP-LINE-ELEVEN UD ONE-SHD BE-- CLUB*

END AND ACK PLS

Bad s3 a net:

7-06 PM OK FBJXXX FBI WA JA

192-2918-

NOT RECORDED

€ 81

TU DISC

V

04 0L8 28 136

MEGIO-LIFE

AF. N61

78 OCT

24

1961

ORIGINAL FIED 1192-2914-22

DocId: 32303166 Page 2

---

