# docid-32292875

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY : . FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10210-10151

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-323

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection set of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 45966 Date:

11-20-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LABADIE, STEPHEN J.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/02/1961

'PAGES:

24

SUBJECTS :

LST, ASSOC, WHEREABOUTS, ACT, P/P, INTV, REINA,

RALPH, MCLANEY, MIKE, RANDAZZO, STEFANO, LONGO,

JAMES COSTA, JACKSON, WILLIE MAE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/16/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

+.

v9.1

IH 45966

21

DocId: 32292875

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TP 92-1

both offices have leads outstanding.

For the further information of New York and San

Juan the Bureau has instructed the importance of this case

cannot be overemphasized, that as Office of Origin, Tampa is

expected to be aware of subject's activities and location.'

The Bureau instructed immediate vigorous investigation was

to be instituted to locate subject and account for his current

activity, particularly during the period which Tampa was

The Bureau instructed

that it was incumbent upon Tampa to closely follow auxiliary

offices in the event TRAFFICANTE has left Tampa area and

such affices should determine his interests in their areas

of the country.

New York and San Juan will immediately submit

investigation conducted and vigorously pursue outstanding

investigation.

SA WILLIAM C. HAY, on September 26, 1961, made a

pretext telephone call to subject's residence and talked in

the

Spanish language with a person who identified herself

as "JOSIE"'.

""JOSIE" related that subject was not at home

and did not know when he would return.

Subject's wife,

+.

JOSEPHINE, is commonly referred to as

JOSIE.

It is here being noted that TP 41-PCI is presently

residing with ELIZABETH HERNANDEZ, aka. Mrs. LAWRENCE HERNANDEZ,

widow of LAWRENCE HERNANDEZ. LAWRENCE HERNANDEZ and CASIMIRO

HERNANDEZ were the only children of LAWRENCE HERNANDEZ, SR.,

who was founder and part owner with CASIMIRO HERNANDEZ Of

the Columbia Restaurant, Tampa. Source has advised that

LAWRENCE HERNANDEZ, JR. and ELIZABETH HERNANDEZ had two

children, GLORIA and ELIZABETH, and these two children had

a very large trust fund set up

for them by their father and

by their grandfather, with CASIMIRO HERNANDEZ brother of

LAWRENCE, JR. as administrator.

ELIZABETH HERNANDEZ has

hired ROBERT F. NUNEZ, former AUSA at Tampa, Florida, to 100k

into the funds of the estate of her children, and as of a

recent date, source states that NUNEZ advised ELIZABETH

HERNANDEZ at her home that there was about $175,000.00

unaccounted for in the trust fund.

source states that he

does not know, but suspects CASIMIRO

HERNANDEZ may have used

some funds from the children's estate.

CASEY

HERNANDEZ

ELA

CUBA

C

(Cover Page)

910-10121

HH 45966 DooId: 32292875

Page 2

---

## Page 3

JEK Act 6 (4)

TP 92-1

It is here noted that Agent EDGAR ADAIR, Intelli-

gence Unit, Internal Revenue Service, Tampa was advised of

the above information by SAs O'BRIEN and LABADIE

JEN Law 11(a)

INFORMANTS

TP T-1 is TP 50-PCI, whose identity is known to the Bureau.

TP T-2 is

I - PCI, who is employed as bartender

, at Peacock Alley,

Coliseum Lanes, Davis Islands, Tampa

which is a hang-out of JAMES C. LONGO.

TP T-3 is TP 41-PCI, whose identity is known to the Bureau.

TP T-4

•is

Attorney, who resides across a

street iron the bream

Bạr, 2801-05 Nebraska Ave.

TP T-S is ROLAND MANTEIGA, Business Manager, "La Gaceta",

weekly Spanish Newspaper in Tampa, Fla., who requests

his identity be protected.

TP T-6 is CS TP 51-C, whose identity is known to the Bureau.

DRS

REVIEWED BY FEI/JFK TASK FORGE

ON

D

7.22.98 dab

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

E7 TOTAL DENIAL

D*

(Cover Page)

92-7988-323012

HW 45966

ДосТА: 32292875

Page 3

---

