# docid-32202160

## Page 1

Date:09/02/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10271

RECORDS SERIES :

REPORT

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 201-087408

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#: NW 53244 Date:

26-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO : CHIEF, WHD

TITLE :

OPERATIONAL - ROBERT MAHEU

DATE : 10/13/57

PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS :

MAHEU, ROBERT

CIA

FOREIGN LEADERS

PROSTITUTES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/01/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

....0sr

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

•HW 53244

DocId: 32202160

Page 1

---

## Page 2

I::72:59129-5

FROM:

RII

TO

ROOM

NO.

2.

SEGRET

ME: F!!!ES 1:1)

ECUTING AND RECORD SIETET

-?1.:::.

12138 ==8

DOCUMENT NUNBER

DOCUMENT DATE

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

Strese a

1366

RECEIVED

ISCRiVARSEDI

COMMENTS

NOTE: Il a coa! or aiachanai are Te∞a:cd I::=:

tached couseni, ecie the locaton có lhe coo? tac'e= :

meni bereoz.

Il Ris PECORD COPY is lo be perta:: m:

the files at the Dest, Cail te Ceral File Secusa ter -

1/100

zlinze

c/wir-3

8 Nov ice:

ittt

GOFY DETRONED

gare Stel

fine

Keel.

reperta 501- Starce

basil U.S. X kill

FRANK tu trial,

Os lile: .

10.

11.

12.

13

/he.

RIIFI

1400L

•CAM NO. 610

• SEP. Si

USE PREVIOUS

ESITIONS

HH 53244

DocId: 32202160 Page 2

01401

SECRET

FILE TITLE

MAIEU, ROBERT A/.

17 00. 1271

FILE NUMSER

721-097408

ENCLOSURE

DATE PERMESSEO

ABSTRICT

1501

INDEX

136275>

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE •

---

## Page 3

12251

•od!

AIR

Spactly Alt or Son Pouchl

DISPATCH NO.

:DCA 11364

SECRET

CLASEFICATION

•TO

Chief, WHD

chief of Station, Crudad Trujilio

DATZ_ 13 October 1957

GENERAL

SUBIICT I SPICETC

REF:

PRUJ-272

ACTION REQUIRED:

Operational

Robert M. MAHEU

9 October. 1957:

As indicated:

Transmitted herewith, for information and for such action

as may be deemed appropriate, are copies of the two documents

described in the reference.

set:

Chief of Station

Attachments:

-2 - as Indicated (each in dupl.)

10 October 1957

Distribution:

"...1ats:.

3 - Headquarters w/2 atts. in dupl.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVEW PROGRAM

AS SARITIZED

27-2-44

01462

PROPERTY Of

"THE WHITE MOUSET COIC

rl easie

868780. 59_70.4

NH 53244 DocId: 32202160 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Att. I to HON, 1136%.

13 October 1957

In June of 1956, a foreign leader

paid a state

visit to the United States. At that time, the leader was hesitating

between the U.S. and the Sovist Union and was playing the part of

a so-called neutral which, in effect, indicated that he favoured

the Soviet position. The United States at this time, was going

all out to impress the leader. •

The foreign leader's Embassy in Washington is represented by a

lawyer

, who, incidentally, had much to do with the

writing of the registration (Foreign Agents Registration ict).

The lawyer approached someone in the State Jepartment regarding

having women available for the leader The leaderwanted a Latin type,

an imerican type and a lordic type woman available when he felt

so inclined. State told the lawyerthat they could not have anything

to do with the obtaining of these women officially, buù suggested

Robert A. Maheu, a former F.B.I. agent then engaged in the private

investigation business in Washington. Maheu was a close friend

of Scott licleod, chief of State security and now american Ambassa-

dor to Ireland. It is believed that the lawyer contaced licLeod

although I have no definite proof of this. •

Haheu agreed to obtain the women for the foreign leader. He contacted

Inspector lobb of the New

York P. D. and wünted lobo to arraire

for him and the girls to stay to the valdorf istoria lötel, in

rooms not too distant from the leader and his party. Robb refused

to involve the police in this affair.

01463

raheu and the prostitutes subsaquently stayed at the Belinont

Plaza Hotel on Lexington Ave., across from the valdorf Asteria

PROPERTY V!

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

NW 53244 DooId: 32202160 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Att. I to 5DCA-12

• 13 Cctober 1957

Page 2.

where the leader and his party were staying. Naheu used the name of

Jordan at the Belmont Plaza. When he received a call from one of

's secretaries, he would send one of the girls over to the

hotel where

was living and she would be secretly passed

into one of the rooms.

The foreign leader's partytravelled across the U.S., stopping at

different cities such as Detroit, Los Angeles, San Francisco,

etc., and Maheu, alias Jordan followed, staying close by with

the girls.

Haheu used the name Jordan.

Haheu was hired by. the foreign leader's Embassy in Washington

through the lawyer.

• Maheu did not register as a foreign

agent and secondly, in transferring females across the State

line, he violated the 'ihite Slave Traffic Act Statute which

forbids transferring women across State lines for imnoral pur-

poses. He undoubtedly violated this statute numerous times,

from New York to California and back.

Recently, Drew Pearson has accused the State Department of

furnishing women for visiting dignatories, and this is a touchy

issue. This whole thing was done with the tacit approval of the

State Department.

01464

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE NFICE

HW 53244 DocId: 32202160 Page

---

## Page 6

patt. 2 to

• HOCA-11

13 October 1957

In September 1955, a wire tap was placed on the telephone

of one of Onassis' shipping companies, in New Yor's City. Fayment

for this was made by Onassis' brother-in-law and rival Niharos.

At that time great concern existed among official circles in the

United States toward the policy of Saudi Arabia in its contemplating

giving to Onassis a monopoly right to carry a majority of the

Saudi Arabian 011 from the latter's ports. Niharos, of course,

was interested

in breaking this threatened monopoly by his greatest

competitor for reasons of business.

Robert M. Naheu,, former FBI agent and then and now a private

investigator, was hired by jiharos to help break this Onassis

threat. One of the measures used was to get the United States

to put pressure on Saudi Arabia officially and another was to

cause Onassis all the difficulty possiole with the imerican law.

Kaheu made numerous trips to Europe and into saudi Irabia. In-

dications were that Onassis had bought off several Saudi irabia

governnental officials.

CIA, according to flaheu, was interested as were icleod of

State and the FBI. laheu allegedly turned over his investigative

reports to these agencies.

The wire tap in New York therefore was an investigative

technique. Maheu always said it was quasi governmental in view

of the fact that the U.S. governuent knes of the tap and gave

PROPERTY OF

tacit approval.

USEWERE MOUSE NECEs

The inforiation obtained was not startling but naues of

certain high governental officials in the saudi Arabian government

HH 53244 DooId:32202160 Page 6

---

## Page 7

irenesia g

üt.

2 to DIC

' 13 October 195%

Page 2.

were mentioned. All information obtained was delivered to a man

nicknamed Amby who was manager of linaros' company Oceanic S.S.

Co. in the East fifties between Park and ladison Avenues in New

York City.

When the Grand Jury was investigating the foreign registration

case they went into this wire-tapping situation closely and in

fact contacted sore of liaheu's employees. Maheu, I understand,

went to someone in the government and pointed out the situation

vis a vis

the U.S. and Saudi irabia and it was decided not to

proceed further in this matter. It is understood that riaheu

spoke to walter Yagely of the Justice Department in reference to

this and he rushed to the Grand Jury room and told the Grand Jury

to forget this.

01466

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSF arcing

HH 53244

Doc1d:32202160

Page

---

