# docid-32209983

## Page 1

Date: 08/12/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : WC

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

09: LANE, MARK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

179-40001-10342

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

FBI

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

: 28/17/64

LANE, MARK

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: C

RESTRICTIONS : REFERREDY

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:10/19104

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

P. 1-2; BOX F03

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50529

DocId: 32209983

Page 1

---

## Page 2

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

= CONFIDENTIAL-

Coumission No. 1457

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION-

Zane.

Park

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

August 17, 1964

CULhi

MARK LANE

On August 5, 1964, T-1, a confidential source abroad,

furnished Information as follows:

MARK LANE entered Denmark April 9; 1964, from Rome

and stayed at the Hotel Royal in Copenhagon

on April 9 and

10, 1964•

On April 16, 1964, he re-entered Denmark from

April 26 and and,

England, and he stayed at the Hotel Viking, Copenbagen,

April 16 and 17, 1964, and at the Hotel Skovriderkroen on

April 17 and 18, 1904• (C)

On April 10, 1964, LANE delivered a lecture to the

Students' Union in Copenhagen concerning the assassination of

President Kennedy.

Danish communist, JORGEN THEILGAARD JACOBSEN, a lawyer, born

April 1l, 1919, took the initiative in forming a Danish committee

for the main purpose of obtaining information on the continued

investigations into the assassination.

Further, this committee

intends to have translated

and published a book which LANE 1s

writing on LEE HARVEY OSWALD's part or innocence in the murder. (CH

JACOBSEN and LANE became acquainted sometime ago when

attending the Congress of the International Association of

Democratic Lawyers in Budapest and they intend to continue the

contact, as MARK LANE will supply the Danish Committee with all

new material on the assassination e)

While in Denmark, MARK LANE was interviewed on April

28,

1964, for eight minutes by the Danish State Television Service.C)

In the middle of May, I-l received information that

MARK LANE intended to visit Denmark again and during the after-

noon of May 25, 1964, in Copenhagen he delivered a lecture at

a meeting organized by the Lawyers' Debating Club.

evening of May 25, 1964, in Aarhus, Denmark, LANE delivered a

lecture to a meeting organized by

the Students' Association and

the dally paper "Demokraten." @

6. 25X C004

CONF IDENTIA Lo

Group I

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

50329 DocId: 322999835 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

T-l advised that these lectures were similar to

his previous ones in that LANE gave an account of his

inquirles since the assassination in November and showed

way in his opinion OSWALD could not have been the assassin. C)

LANE also stated during the lectures that he had

vis1ted Dallas, Texas, five times; that he was under sur-

veLLlance Dy the

which tapped his telophones, and that

he was happy to have the opportunity of pleading the cause

in Europe as he had gained the impression that this was

being reported by the press in the United States. (e)

LANE's comprehensive material on the assassination.

reportedly has been placed at the disposal of the Danish

Mark Lane Committee for the purpose of early publication. C)

On May 26, 1964, LANE departed Copenhagen for Sweden,

France and England,

where he was also to deliver lectures. C.

I-I advised that Who Killed Kennedy Committees

have been established on LANE's Initiative 1n Copenhagen,

Paris and London, all with prominent personalities as/)

members.

According to T-l, Lava

roturned to the United States

on July 1, 1964 C)

CONFIDENTIAL

ww 50529 Doeta: 32209993 Page 3

---

