# docid-32290551

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10205-10327

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2717-97

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/06/1961

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/18/1998

ABR, ASSOC, DEATH, VENEZIALE, MARSHALL, TOLL

CALLS, RES, WHEREABOUTS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290551

Page 1'

32

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: (A2т.14-130167

FBI

Date: 3/6/61

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRFEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI (92-2717)

SAC, Philadelphia (92-444)

ANGELO BRUNO, aka

(00-Philadelphia)

Daily airtel. By separate letter the Identification Division

was requested to ascertain if two latents in auto in which body of MARSHALL

VENEZIALE found by Philadelphia Police Department during December 1954

are identical to fingerprints of CARL IPPALITO, FBI #773655; FRANK "Bumper"

POLLASTRELLI, FBI #582826; and MICHAEL "Daylight" TRAMAHTANA, FBI #44673;

considering Ph 591-C* identifies these as possible killers for BRUNO, and

Ph 514-6, who is related to MARSHALL VENEZIALE, considers BRUNO as person

who would know whocaused death of VENEZIALE.

Arranged with Philadelphia Police Department to obtain results

of their inquiry regarding toll calls from various associates and locations

BRUNO frequents. Reviewed records furnished Philadelphia Police Department

prepared by ATTD and IRS, Philadelphia, during 1951 and 1958. Nothing

of value noted of current interest.

Ph 591-C* indicates BRUNO still in Florida. Ph 523-0 said

BRUNO's wife to join him in Florida during current weeko

Recontacted confidental source, Bell Tell, Company, to show

continued interest re BRUNO's residence so that Philadelphia Division

will know if opportunity presents itself to establish confidential source

FROHBOSE

REC- 35

-Bureau (92-2717)

1-Philadelphia (92-444)

JRP:bec

(4)

c a = Wick'

Approved:

5 UMAR 9

19 gêcial Agent id Charle

92-2717-99

MAR 8 $ 1961

TELLS

Sent

_ M

Per

DocId: 32290551 Page 2

---

