# docid-32319381

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10369-10015

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-C9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: GALE

TO: DELOACH

TITLE:

DATE: 08/18/1967

• PAGES: 327

SUBJECTS :

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD

OUTGOING COMMUNICATION VOLUME 16

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4.

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/17/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC FOLDER, COVER PAGE, MEMO, A/T, NOTES, LET, TTY, NEWS RELEASES, SUMMARY,

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, FD 302s, LHM, TRANSCRIPTS, S/S, SF 88 INTERVIEW, LISTS,

v9.1

DocId: 32319381

13

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released'under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

11-14-2017

Rev.

22-641

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

8/23/67

111 use 2107 Hote).

mir.

No: Detone

Mont.

Mb. PCasper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Comad

Mr. Felt..

Mr. Gale

Mr. Paren

Mr. Su

Mr. Tile

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room..

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy.

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

(62-933)

FROM:

SAC, NEW ORLEANS

(92-50)

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

FREI

NO 92-35

NO 1457-C-TE advised that CARLOS MARCELLO returned

to New Orleans after absence from the city this past weekend

and

his whereabouts when gone unknown to source.

Source

advised that CARLOS MARCELLO had a dinner party at his home

Monday night for some politicians, whose identities source

does not know at this

time.

Source advised that one of the

individuals is a candidate for assessor for Jefferson Parish

in the upcoming election.

Source also advised that Parish President TOM

DONELON and State Senator HANK LAURICELLA had a

dinner

party at the Elmwood Plantation last Saturday night (this

establishment is run by CARLOS' brother JOSEPH) and reported-

ly this dinner party was free of charge:

in the State of Louisiana,

advised that CARLOS MARCELiO

agreed to pose for pictures for Life

cameramen

but refused

2

Bureau

1ca81s

New Orleans

TLC: sam

(5)

C. & = Bishop

1i10

45. ₴

CHIS

Approved:

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId:32319381 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 114 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mr. Ro C. Sullivan

A. Branigan

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOIN FITAGERALO KINKEDY

NOVENBER 230

2963,

DALLAS,

9U6/0833

July 5,

$ 1907

C.

D.

DeLonch

C.

R.

Sullivan

Branigan

Lonthan

To roport infomation furnished by L. I. Barrelson,

a Potential Confidentin Intornant (PCI) of our Chicago

office, and a polygraph examiaer for Keeler Polygraph

Institute, Caseago.

Infomation relates to Porry Busso and

sunrised and disscuinated to Attorey General»

IMCKGROUND:

New Orleans District Attornoy James C. Carzieon

sa his lavestigation of the assassination of President Kennedy

ans stegos & conspiracy 202 this purpose graced becueen

C17 one, & zocared dow Orlenus businossnan, David Fersie

Porxy Busso and Sandra Hottest

Acinines allegedly bore present in Ferrie's aparteent aud

beard discussions in this regard. Russo man Garrison's

principal vitoss against Shaw in 3/67 following which Shaw

was indieted for conspiracy to assassinate President Kennedy.

It was subsequently disclosed that fusso pas

subjected to drugs and hypnonie prior to his testimony, for

which Carrison has boon critteized.

It bas also been

disclosed that Nrs, Melindaes was contacted in Cuaba, Nebraalta,

by representatives of Garrison'e office and strongly urged

to retur to New Orleans to give testimony.

INPOKHANTKS INFORMATION:

PCI Barrelson advised he learned the following

information in a telephone conversation with a source in

New. Orleans shon he did not identify, but whon Harrelson

Enclosure

62-309060

EST:as/zul (7)

CONTINUED = OVER

36001881

DocId: 32319381

Page

3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

Menorandun to Mr. J. C. Sullivan

ASSABSINAZION OP PRESIDENT JORN FITZGERALD KEI

62-109060

knows sell as he is also a polygraph oxanines, having been

trained as tho Keeler Polygraph Institute.

Hazzelson Whe

advised by his source that Russo appeared at source's office

on 6/19/67 to be affordod a polygraph ezantuation regarding

his story of the plot to assassinate President Kennedy.

Russo's breathing, bovever,

was so erratie he wae considered

an unfis subject for polygraph exanination.

Russo told

larsolson's source that he did not know 1& Clay Shaw was at

the meeting or not.

Musso stated he had fully intended to

so into court and testify that be did not know if Shawws

present or not but bocane engered at a question by Shaw's

attorney.

Russo adnitted that he had undergono paychiatrie

treatnont for & your and a half and also adnitted honosexual

lacts. Alter giving Currison a verbal report, Harrelson's

source stated he was told in no uncertain terms to keep

his south

shut:

Hazrelsonte source also stated he save Mrs. icklaines

four separate polygraph examinations at the request of an

attorney in Des Moines, Town, following & protesting inter-

vien during which she adnitted beconing prognant by Busso

and engaging in prostitution in lew Orleans,

Che dentod ever

noting Shaw or Oswald and stated she nover attended a

party at Forete's apartsent. - She also stated Russo asted

her to maizy

him to keep him out of the service.

ALso she

stated she had been contacted by two of Garrison's men in

Omaha in an attenpt to persuade her to sotura to New Orleans

to sive testinony

This she zefused to do even after being

promised now clothes and that she would stay at the finest

Dotels,

Polysraph exinination indicated Melainos vas

substantially truthful.

OBSERVATIONS:

Mazzelson furnished the abovo information on an

excely consential banis and ungod that under no cârou

Stances should his identity be divulged and that enteri

caution be exercised in use of his information leander not

to in any way violate the confidential relationship between

the 90% and those individuals be named, It is believed

cant to intomation regarding Russo's adnissions anc

Mcilaines having been afforded polygraph exantnations

should be furnished to the Attorney Genezal.

BP: 1987809

DocId: 32319381

Page

4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

The Astorney t

Director, Fal

ASSASSINATION OU 1

BER 22,

2063,

DALLAS,

TIRI

1 - Mr. DeLoach

1 - Mr. Wick

July 6, 1967

bels

Mr - Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr.

Branigan

-. Nr. Lenihan

containias information

relating to Perry Russo and Sandra

anyo figured in the Bes

assinatton investigation of District

Attorney Janes C. Garrison La Bow Orlesas.

This information "

ursed that under no eircums

tances

sbould his identity be

divulged and requested extrene caution be exereised in any

use of the intomation in order not to violate the conti»

dential rolationship botween the source and thoue individ-

mate noutioned or retersod to in the enclosed

mendus.

Enclosure

63-103060

1-B.

Carl, Bardley (Roclosure)

Acting Asstatant Attorney

Apeistant Attorney

1 - B

BST : Jmk

(12)

See memorandum Branigan to Sullivan, dated 7/5/67, same

caption, prepared by BST:as: rwf.

NOTE:

Source of information

in enclosed letterhead

memorandum is potential confidential informant Leonard Harrelson

of our Chicago Office. Harrelson is a polygraph examiner, and

both he and his source, whose identity he did not furnish, were

trained at the Keeler Polygraph Institute in Chicago.

Enclosed

nemorandum was prepared at the Bureau inasmuch as Chicago 0ttlCe,

vecause of the sensitive and confidential nature of the information

and the PCI's value to the Chicago Office, did not furnish the

information in form suitable for dissemination but furnished it

only for Bureau's information.

ms P

DocId: 32319381 Page 5

---

