# docid-32561696

## Page 1

FD-3@? (Rev. 12-13-56)

Parami he powing in-

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

FBI

Date: 5/11/62

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or-code.

REGISTERED MAIL.

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Director, FBI (92-2717)

SAC, Philadelphia (92-444) (P)

ANGELO BRUNO, aka;

Re Philadelphia airtel to the Bureau dated 5/8/62

ana Philadelphia airtel to New York dated 5/5/62.

PH 627-PC advised on 5/9/62 that he and JOHN

CAVELLI would again go to New York on Saturday night

5/12/62.

While in New York City,

informant ana CAVELLI

deliver money

Informant does

noteknow to whom the money will be delivered or why the money

is being taken to New York.

Informant speculated that the

-money will be delivered to CHERICO.

He stated that he had

no advance notice on his last two trips to New York that

PHILIP TESTA would be in New York and would hold meetings

in New York

He does not know if TESTA again plans to visit

New York toyes

the week end.

feli

For the information of the Bureau, New York and

Boston, the informant obtained employment with BRUNO in his

n the nee

numbers operation upon the suggestion of FBI, Philadelphia.

Informant is being groomed by JOHN CAVELLI,

TESTA's close

confidante.

To date, he has served in edge-off houses and

numbers relay stations.

At present he is TESTA's "bagman, "

collecting money from various numbers offices and he is

furnishing the location of these offices to the Philadelphia

Division.

thes

3 - Bureau (92-2717) (R.M.)

2

- Boston (92-272). (R.M.)

2

- New York (92-739)

(R.M. )

- Philadelphia

92-444)

EDH: PHH C - Wick

(8)

REC- 26

ST-113

9253112-5516

13 MAY 12117

Approved:

MAN

sent

Special Agent in

HIH

45737 DooId: 32561696

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PH 92-444

Philadelphia believes that dissemination to the

Philadelphia Police Department at this time would abort plans

to become thoroughly familiar with the extent of BRUNO's

numbers operation.

Further, it appears that informant's trip

to New York City is indicative of a possible ITAR violation.

Philadelphia believes that open surveillances of

informant and TESTA are premature at this time because of the

sensitivity

of informant's relationship with TESTA, CAVELLI

and BRUNO. "It is further believed that no further action

should be taken until the informant has thoroughly penetrated

and digested the extent of BRUNO's numbers operation and advised

the FBI of the identities of persons engaged in the illegal

activity.

Informant has again been instructed to be most

circumspect in noting information such as names, phone numbers

and addresses. He has been instructed to telephonically

furnish this information to the New York Office while it is

fresh in his memory in order that he can minimize note-taking.

1 order that no c

Informant stated that he did not call the New York Office

over the 5/5-7/62 week end, as he was instructed, out of fear

of being compromised. Informant thoroughly appreciates the

danger of his position, but he continues to be most cooperative.

He has requested that a Philadelphia Agent be available in

New York to receive his telephone call because of his

reluctance to speak with Agents unknown to him. It is believed,

however, that this arrangement is at this time unnecessary.

In the event it does become necessary, recommendations will

be made.

In the event

informant contacts the New York Office,

he will identify himseif as FRANK THOMAS. If he calls, he

should be handled with appropriate dispatch. The New York

Office should vigorously attempt to develop a highly con-

fidential source in CHERICO's residence and should expedite

investigation requested in reference airtel.

Likewise, Boston should expedite investigation

requested in reference airtel.

-2 -

NW 45737 DooId: 32561696 Page 2

---

