# docid-32316445

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10347-10065

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 156-126-8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/09/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

JAMES PLUMERI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO; INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32316445

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

REC

SPIES MADE. RATE /

FOR REVIEW

TO ASCA Mi

BY,

Att.:

DIRECTOR, FBI (137-8862)

Asst. Dir, A. ROSEN

SAC, NEW YORK (137-9495)

5/9/63

NY 3936-C

Reference Buairtels 4/26, 5/2 and 5/3/63,

Enclosed for the Bureau are the originals and

4 copies each of four letterhead memorandums furnished in

compliance with referenced airtels.

It should be noted that NYO has not obtained

full and sufficient information concerning the pension loan

to

the Howard Park Hospital.

it is anticipated, however, that

full facts concerning source's involvement in this loan will

be forthcoming within one week at which time

a detailed

letterhead memorandum will be prepared on this

matter.

It is suggested that no investigation be instituted on

this loan at this time.

Concerning the Forum Motor Lodge, source has

advised that this loan has not reached the stage of

completion.

However, leads set out in referenced Buaintel datec

5/2/62

concerning this loan will be handled, including the

possibility

of informant's withdrawal from this matter.

Bureau

will be

advised by appropriate communication of the results

of further

"discussion in this case.

This

office at present has

• very little infornation

concerning the Fairlawn Memorial Hospital other than that

set out in referenced Buairtel dated 5/3/63, with the possible

exception of the involvement of JAMES PLUMERI in this loan.

This matter will be discussed in detail with the informant

Bin the near future.

C

Concerning

the forum Motor Lodge and Howard Park

¿Hospital loans some information set out in Yairtels

dated 4/19/63 and 4/23/63 is being omitted from the enclosed

letterheads in order to protect the source

in these matters.

- BUREAU (20 ENCLS.

38

— NEW YORK

(137-949

1560/26

NOT RECORDED

wile

WAV: DJG

(3)

OSURI

126 RAAY 18 1963

16-1266

10

EX-116

68 MAY 2 0 1963

DocId: 32316445

Page 2

FIYA

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Letter to Director

NY 137-9495

Concerning

the allegations that GEORGE BARASCH is

lending money to foreign corporations, AUSA HAROLD BAER,

SDil, has made available to this office a voluminous file

on this matter which sets forth the results of investigation

concerning BARASCH and conducted by the Internal Revenue

Service and the Bureau of Labor Management Reports,

At the

request of AUSA BAER, a new case captioned,

"GEORGE BARASCH,

SECRETARY-TREASURER, LOCAL 815, IBT AND PRESIDENT, ALLIED

122-1142, has been

opened.

The Bureau is being advised by separate

communication of

the

results of the examination of the IRS and BLMR material and

subsequent doscussion with AUSA BAER following this examina-

tion.

AAttempts will be made to obtain information from this

informant concerning above-captioned matter.

gratita

DocId: 32316445

Page 3

---

