# docid-32291143

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10206-10419

HQ

92-6054-565

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, RO

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

12/27/1963

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/14/1995

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32291143

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

•DATE. 11-14-2017

THE FOREIGN SERVICE

OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

The American Embassy

Rome, Italy

Date:

To:

Chirom:

Subject:

December 27, 1963

Director, FBI

Legat, Rome

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

(92-6054)

(92-80)

(P)

ReRomelet, 10-21-63, and Bulet, 12-5-63.

On December 16, 1963, Dr. ARISTIDE MANOPULO,

Central Bureau, Criminal Division,

Italia National Police, Rome,

advised that he has determined that the articles referred to in

relet of October 21, 1963, were articles which appeared in the

Palermo, Italy, daily newspaper "L'Ora", rather than in a Rome

daily newspaper.

Dr. MANOPULO stated that the articles in "L'Ora"

of Palermo were

identical with those which had appeared in the

Rome daily newspaper "Paese Sera" and which have already been

furnished to the Bureau.

In December 23, 1963, Dr. MANOPULO statec

that repeated efforts by the Italian National Police to date to

locate NICOLO GENTILE have been fruitless.

Dr. MANOPULO said

that he feels it is very possible that GENTILE has, left Italy

copies of the letterhead hem 16054-165

memoranda and the

fingerprints, as well as the other pertinent data furnished tc

the Rome office by Bulet of December 5, 1963, were turnished to

Dr. MANOPULO on December 17, 1963.

Dr. MANOPULO stated that the

material would be promptly

• translated and studied.

Plans for

effective use of the material will then be made. Dr. MANOPULO

REC- 45

726050

566

3 - Bureau

(1 - Liaison Section)

1 - Rome

92-80

1 JAN

2 1964

JCM: 0C

(4)

103

53 JAN 8

EX-114

1740

1964

DocId: 32291143 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Note).

• DATES 11-11-2017

đ:.

was most grateful for the time and effort which were expended

in the preparation of the material furnished to him.

He stated

he would keep this office advised of all pertinent information

developed concerning the organization of "La Cosa Nostra" and

any possible ties

between the organization in Italy and in the

United States.

In connection with this latter point, on

December 5, 1963, Dr. MANOPULO stated that the Italian Police

are somewhat gratified by the slight crack which appeared in

the wall of silence which usually surrounds Mafia activities

in Italy.

The crack appeared during a trial of several accused

murderers in Palermo, Italy, when one of the defendants fur-

nished a statement confirming the existence of Mafia gangs and

giving the names

of those guilty in a

number of murders which

had taken place in the area.

None of

this information had

any connection with possible international links of "La Cosa

Nostra", but the situation has, perhaps, lessened the fears

in the hearts of those who may

have such

pertinent information

to furnish.

The Rome office is continuing to follow

this matter closely and any pertinent information developed

will be promptly furnished to the Bureau.

DocId: 32291143 Page 3

---

