# docid-32202003

## Page 1

Date: 06/27/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10114

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : BRENNAN, D.J.

TO :

TITLE :

LEE HARVEY OSWALD; INTERNAL SECURITY - RUSSIA

DATE : 11/27/63

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

OSWALD, LEE HARVEY

INTERNAL SECURITY - RUSSIA

CIA

PAPICH, SAM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/27/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Released under the John

Case#:NW 53244 Date:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53244

DocId: 32202003

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL •DEN NO 10

"HAT IRGLIDITION

BARED SIVES COVERINE SECRE CA MAS NO ORION TO

DECLASSINCAT

Memorandùm

RELEASE O

A INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT TBA 3 17-83 S

as specsities,

: Mro No C. Sullivan

DATE:

November 27, 1963

AUD INFORMATION CONTAINED

D. J. Brennan, JE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIOD EXCEP*

OURE SBOWN OTHERWISE.

7-29-93

LEE HARVEY OSTALD

INTERNAL SECURITY - R

Classified by

8803-10т/K5R

Declassity on:

OADN

Toison

Belmont

Monr

Frans

Gile -

Hotres

Gandy

Prefie

Reference is made to the Director's memorandum dated 11/25/03

describing his conversation with john clone, Director, Central

Intelligence Agency (CI), concerning the instant matter.

Mir. McCone

indicated that he had discussed with Agent Papich the matter of CI!'s

sensitike sources in Mexico City.

• li

For your information Agent Papich was in contact with

Mr. McCone on several occasions during

; the period 11/22-24/63.

In

all of these contacts, McCone was inquiring concerning the status oi

the Agent's

contact

with CIA officials who were following leads in

Mexico City.

He wanted to make certain that the information being

reived by the Agent was in line with the briefings being afforced

tu him by his own men. In each instance the Agent revieved these

matters

and McCone was satisfied that all angles vere being properly

coordinated from the standpoint of his Agency.

: McCone also emphasized very strongly that the information

being developed by CIA resulted.from

(the Agency vs))

THIRD

AGENCY

Lo Mexico City

The Liaison igent assured McCone that the information received by

Bureau from CIA would be fully protected.

ACTION:

• For information.

1

1

_ MIo

Belmönt

hr .

Rosen

MIr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Eganigan

Mr.

Turner

Liaison

-

Papich

.93

: bmf

(8)

50 0LC 11 1953

DEC: 10 1953

SECRET

REC- 16

12: 825-141

25 DEC

300L2

REVIEWED BY FBIJFK TASK FORCE

ON

It/sy dar

CO. RELEASE I FULL

RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

NW 53244 DooId: 32202003

Page 2

---

