# docid-32270434

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

2/3/2016

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10140-10130

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 06-11-39

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

HSCA

FROM:

BLAKEY, G. ROBERT

TO :

BRECKINRIDGE, SCOTT

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/11/1978

1

CIA, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE:

LETTER

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

1A

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/24/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 1

Released under the John

•. Kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53080 Date:

05-30-2017

v9.1

HH 53080 DocId: 32270434

Page 1

---

## Page 2

L'S STOKÉS, CHIT: CHAIRMAN

SAMUEL L. DEN

CHIO

" RICHARDSON PREYER, NE

WALTER E.

LAUNTROY, DE.

STEWART B. #

HEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATAWAITE BURKE, CALES-

-CHARLES THONL.- EBR.

EHRISTOPHER 1. DODD, CORN.

HAROLO S. JAWYER, MICH.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN

FLOYD.J. FITTIAN, IND.

ROBERT W. EOSAR, PA.

0L0 0 121/25

(202) 275-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.5. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

1 1 JUL 1978

Mx. Scott Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator/HSCA

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Mr. Breckinridge:

In connection with this Committee's investigation into the

circumstances surrounding the death of President John F. Kennedy,

we respectfully request access to any and all files or documents

concerning or referring to the following individuals:

1. LICOOKIE/IN

2. Lynn Duran (aka Lydia Duran)

3.

Eunice Odio

4.

TICHBORN

5.

LICHANT/1

6.

General Jose Jesus Clark Flores

7=

Emillo Carballido

8=

LIRING/3

9.

Manuel Calvillo

10-

Charles Thomas

11.

June Cobb y

12.

LIHUFF/1

13.

LITAMIL/7

14.

LITAMIL/ 9

15-

Victor Rico Galan

16.

Noe Palomares

17.

Joaguin Cisneros

We are aware

that some of the above-listed individuals have

been the subject of prior requests:

We now respectfully request

that the files on the above individuals be given the highest

priority. As some of the information contained in this letter was

derived from classified CIA files, you may desire to classify the

letter appropriately.

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely.

GRB = mgm

G.

Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

3810

NW 53080 DooId: 32270434 Page 2

---

