# docid-32123933

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DД5501411-14-2017

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Exit. JFK

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10023-10270

RECORDS SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-3727

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: LEG, MX

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

: [No Title]

DATE

: 05/12/1964

PAGES

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS

: LHO, POSI-RP, TRA TO MEXICO, ASSOC

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 4

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/01/1996

OPENING, CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Doc.t/wwyn2139gycgi-pia/gterfigder/8542/fsnew.bd

"Exit JFK

1/1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Е Б!

Date, 5/12/64

Transmit the following in

Vic

AIRTEL

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

(Type in plain text or cod:;

DECLASCICICAHON AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN INis DOCUMENT JBH 5/21195

Priority or Method of hailing 9803 RAd/ Mile lo/, 4/43 (JA)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-82555)

FROM:

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (105-3702) (P)

SUBJECT:

LEE HARVEY

OSWALD, aka

(554) 312146

IS - R - CUBA

CLASCICEOSY

5668510 /Ge

DSU14

• 0x6)

Re Bucab 4/30/64.

B7A T/s/3)

2070

vate of Declassification

Mexico CIty Office file on CHARLES SMALI (BufiTé

(permanent immigrant, in Mexico and that he departed Mexico

9/29/63.

Througn informant vEX-46 *arrangements have been!

made to review SMALL's file at Gobernacion to confirm his

Immigration status and determine whether or not that file

contains any record of his september travel

on 5/4/64, MISS ANNE GOODPASTURE,

CIA, Mexico

City, advised that Mexico City airline records reflect that

CHARLES SMOLIKOFF and son, DENNIS, departed from Mexico City

for New York CIty on Eastern Airline Flight #300, 9/14/63.

He returned to Mexico City from New York City on Eastern

Airline Flight #301, 9/29/63,

accompanied by his wife, BERTHE

SMOLIKOFF (Buffle 100-421747), and son, DENNIS. BERTHE

4a7/93

9803222/500t

U

Bureau

1 - Haison Section

(2 - Dallas, 100-10461)

3 - Mexico City

- - Me 100-1535, C. SMAL

1 - MC 134-10A)

NLF : e im

105-82555

3227

HAY 15

364

AIRTEL

SOV

. M

CTION

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

53 MAY 10195480

Sent

er

UNRECUNDED COPY FILED IN

DocId: 32123933 Page 2

---

## Page 3

abea

EEGEZTZE:PIOO0

AU T :EIN! HOU

11028

MAY 15 | 36 PM "6

23-1021)

MAY 18 1964

SENSTUCY 7S

NOTATIONS HEREIN ACCOUNT FOR AOCESS É ID. "OR DELIVERY OF THIS DOCUMENT TO SENATE

SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) AN )-OR MOUSE SELEC COMMATFLE IHSC) MN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES:

11'2RTI,T NOTE FORM ILIHICH ASCESS AND COR DELWERY NAS MADE MAY BE DIFFERENT

THAN AS REPRESETTED BY THIS ÈRUIFNE IN THI: GE¡'A I EXCIGUDiES NIDY NAUE BELN

MADE: FOR ACCESS/ DELIVERY FORM, SIE BUFILE (S) 62-11ES15 LSCI, €2-116464 (HSC).

SSe LiMt siS- 13U2x

HẸC

ACC.

DATE

AC.C.

DATE

DELO

MISE.:

DOCU-REN -

TO ESTAIE ?N :A:.

DENOTING DELIVEME ...

DATE i12 /2.

CEL.

DA!E

C.. D ÉSE RE MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.. WERE AI SO FURNISHED

iar DEPT. AS INDICATED BELOW FOR INSTANT DOCUMENT, DATE

SF.E BUFILE 100-106670 FOR FORM IN WHICH FURNISHED.

• TO DEPT.

LTOZ-FT-TI :AIFO

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleption Act of 1992 441 USC 2107

Hotel

DATE:

11-14-2017

MC 105-3702

SMOLIKOFF had preceded her husband in traveling to New York,

going by Eastern Airlines Flight #300 on 9/9/63, accompanied

by son,

ABBOTT. (Bufile 100-441277) Checks of airline travel

relating to SMALL for the period from 9/29-10/3/64 are not

being made since information received from CIA, Mexico, "not

to be disseminated outside the Bureau," as recorded in the

report of SA NATHAN L. FERRIS dated 11/29/63, entItled "CHARLES

N. SMOLIKOFF, aka, SM - C," indicated that SMOLIKOFF remained

in Mexico City following his arrival on 9/29/63 and claimed

to be 111.

In regard to Bureau request for opinion of this

office concerning

the best manner for interviewing SMALL in

case the Commission requests his interview, the following is

submitted:

It Is suegested that such an Interview should not U

be requested from the Mexican authorities because of the

difficulties previously cited of exercising control

of

Mexican officials.

If such interview proves necessary, it should be

handled by an American official, preferably some official of

the Embassy who is operational abroad and would be able to

testify or give a deposition if needed as is customarily done

when official interviews are reguired abroad in Bureau cases.

It is believed that this could be best arranged by request by

the Bureau to the State Department in the customary manner.

The Department of state would then issue instructions to the

Embassy, which would select the proper official to handle the

interview, and this office could cooperate closely with him

It is suggested also that an Agent of this office

sit in with the Embassy official during the interview to

insure that the Bureau's Interests are protected and pertin- U

ent points covered. It is believed that SMOLIKOFF, as an

American citizen, would respond to a request from the Embassy

to appear at the Embassy for an interview.

For the protection of MEX-18 and MEX-19,31t is

suggested that the predication for the interview be that

several American

Communists

who have visited Mexico, when

returning to the United States, have stated that SMOLIKOFF

had been of assistance to them in many ways and that the

January, 1964, National Guardian tour was entertained by him;

CONFIDENTIAL

U

= 2

DocId: 32123933

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records, Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MC 105-3702

consequently, it was desired to determine whether or not

OSWALD had contacted him

or visited his store. In the event

SMOLIKOFF claims that he was not in Mexico City when OSWALD

was in this area, it is felt that the interviewer could point

oụt to him that the airline records show that he left for

New York on 9/14/63 and returned on American Airlines 9/29/64

and that the airline manifests do not show any other travel

by nim in the period prior to 10/3/63. *It is felt this

approach would direct attention away from effective informants

of this office. Kep(n.)

With respect to the type of assistance given by

SMOLIKOFF to visiting American Communists this matter again

was discussed with MEX-18 and MEX-19*on 5/5/64.

The informants

K(4)

advised that,

according to ELIZABETH CATLETT MORA (Bufile

100-395934)2x SMOLIKOFF assists visitors who contact his store

in finding hotel accommodations, suggesting places of tourist

Interest to visit, and advising them where they can purchase

items In which they are interested. SMALL helps them make

appointments with other American Communist Group in Mexiço

(ACCM) associates they desire to meet whose addresses they

do

not have; cashes checks for them and performs similar services.

According to MORA, SMOLIKOFF assists visiting Commu-

nists as

described above if he is impressed by them; if he

does not like them, he merely gives them one of his business

cards, tells

Them to call him if he can help them, and dis-

misses them.

The above description of the assistance rendered by

SMOLIKOFF coincides with the information previously received

¿from CIA, Mexica classified "SECRET and not to be

disseminated Ba(e)

outside of the Bureau.

Interview with him by American Embassy personnel. MEX-18 and

more specific information in this regard in order not

jeopardize their status.

With respect to Bureau instructions that a letter-

head memorandum be submitted recording the number of informants

contacted who could

I, not furnish information that OSWALD had

#(U)

- 3 -

DocId: 37123933

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 411 USC 2107..

Motel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MC: 105-3702

547290

visited SMALL's business establishment, it is pointed out

that the survey of Informants concerning OSWALD was completed

and reported by airtel dated 4/30/64. other than EX-18 and

MEX-19 the informants who would be in position to have some

areMEx 48th respect

and MEX-61 who have been away from Mexico ano

unavailable for contact As soon as they can be consulted,

the letterhead memorandum requested by the Bureau will be

submitted.

CONG DENTIAL

sorror

Id: 32123933 Page, 6

---

