# docid-32306100

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/20/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10289-10230

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-6054-2220

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/19/1967

1

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/09/1998

LCN, MISTRELLA, FRANK, ASSOC, ARREST, OC, GAMBLING

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45839

33

DocId: 32306100

Page 1

---

## Page 2

WA -7-

1258PM URGENT 12-19-67 PAS

TO DIRECTÓR 92-6854

FROM

NEW YORK 92-2300 1P

LA.

LON- CONSPIRACY, AR

VIA TELETYPE

DEC 191967

ENCIPHERED

Mr. Tolson...

ME. Mond

Mr. B

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. Felt...

MeGale...

Mr. Rosen._.

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel.

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room..

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

OTHER

. 4

INFORMANIS OF THE NYO ADVISED

( FORMER

NY FOUR SIX ONE EIGHT-PC>, FRANK MISTRELLA AND

(NY NINETY TWO THREE ZERO EIGHT ONE) WERE OPERATING

A BLACK JACK GAME AT ONE FIVE FIVE EAST FIFTHIETH

STREET, NYC, APARIMENT IWELVE-E. INFORMANTS KNEW OF NO

INTERSTATE OF ASPECT. TO THIS GAME. INFORMATION FUR-

NISHED TO INSPECTOR ED DONNELLY, NYCPD.

INSPECTOR DONNELLY ADVISED ON TWELVE NINETEEN

SIXTY SEVEN THAT BASED ON ABOVE INFORMATION FRANK MISTRELLA

AND ANOTHER INDIVIDUAL WERE ARRESTED FOR LOITERING

IN FRONI OF THE ABOVE BUILDING ON TWELVE FIFTEEN SIXTY

SEVEN. ON TWELVE SIXTEEN SIXTY SEVEN, MISTRELLA AND

FOURTEEN OTHERS WERE ARRESTED FOR GAMBLING AT THE ABOVE

ADDRESS. HE STATED THIS GAME WAS DOING TWENTY THOUSAND

DOLLARS A WEEK BUSINESS.

REC- 71

42

6054-2220

INSPECTOR DONNELLY ADVISED HE WOULD MAKE AVAILABLE;

TO THE NYO THE IDENTITIES OF THE INDIVIDUALS ARRESTED:

AT THE GAME. HE EXPRESSED HIS APPRECIATION FOR: THE

18 DEC 27 19671

COOPERATION OF THE NYO IN THIS MATTER.

END

ox.

FBI WAS AN 4 196MR DELDACH FOR THE DIRECTOR

NW 45839 DocId: 32306100 Page 2

---

