# docid-32201936

## Page 1

Date: 05/11/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10047

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : DIRECTOR, FBI

TO : SAC, MIAMI

TITLE :

ROLANDO L. CUBELA Y SECADES

DATE: 08/07/64

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

CUBELA Y SECADES, ROLANDO L.

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

PLANS TO ASSASSINATE CASTRO

CUBA

Released under the John

F. kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53244 Date:

J6-12-2017

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/12/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

335-2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53244

DocId: 32201936

Page 1

---

## Page 2

...

SECRET

CIAHAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/

RELEASE DE THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

pe

3RDD

Tolson

Belmont

Hohr -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

"Loach

SAC, M1am1 (109-471)

REG. 128

Director, FBI (105-77667) - 21

8/7/64

1 - Nasca

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

ROLANDO L. CUBELA & SECADES

IS - CUBA

ON

M..

Ektriot 1/29/64.

• RELEASE A FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

ilth reference to Information set forth on page two

paragraph one, possibility exists that the alleged plan to kil:

Castro has some connection with the plan presently under

investigation by your office under the caption of "Plans of

Cuban Exiles to Assassinate Selected Cuban Government Leaders, "

your file 105-9056.

Keep Buresu currently advised of any additional

pertinent infornation received concerning subject's activities

and his connection with plan to assassinate Castro.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

VIN: 801

nation. outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

(5)

Ce your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

1 - 105-131629 (Plans of Exiles to Asgassinate Cuban Leaders)

NOTE:

Subject 1g Cuban Government official who has indicated

desire to detect.

CIA apparently made contact with his in

Kurope.

e thru Cuban

exile in. her jors who is long-time friend of

Meal. amorn was visited by the Cuban exfle

he had been acting as contact man between

CIA and subject. According to Cuban exile, subject complained

to hin that CIA refuses to furnish his with certain equipment

with which he could take sone effective action in Cuba and that

CIA furnishes his with bulky unservicable equipment rather than

compact eguipment with which he could possibly eliminate Castro.

to kill Castro

According to Cuban exile there is some plan /under

discussion, details o1 which he did not know, in which subject

would figure.

CIA allegedly was in favor

Attorney General would have no part of or malit, Blowed.

28 1918

SEE CONTINUANCE OF NOT! PAGE THO

MAILED 25

COMM-FBI

will

HH 53244

DocId: 32201936 Page 2

---

