# docid-32113009

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/27/201

AGENCY: BUCHEN7866

RECORD NUMBER:

178-10003-10296

RECORD SERIES: ACCESSION 78-66 (UNPROCESSED)

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: COVERT ACTIONS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOD

FROM: LANSDALE, EDWARD

TO: RECORD

TITLE: OUTLINE OF COVERT OPERATIONS

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/31/1962

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CIA

CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

KENNEDY, ROBERT

LANSDALE, EDWARD

OPERATION MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/27/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Attached to 1781000310294. Tab Al.

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53244 Date: 06-12-2017

19.1

NH 53244

DocId: 32113009

66

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

31 October 1962

FOR THE RECORD

By Brig. Gen. LansdaleS

Subject: Outline of Covert Operations !

Last night, Deputy Secretary Gilpatric asked me to give him a

brief outline, by this morning, of Operation Mongoose in the light

of current US-USSR negotiations re Cuba. I was to cover present

status of operations, resources, and sketch in future possibilities.

I wrote the outline, based on current reports from the Mongoose

operations team and my staff. Only two copies were typed.

I showed the outline to Mr. Gilpatric this morning as he rode

out to the airport, to catch his flight to New York. I noted the

exceptional sensitivity of the information in the outline. He acknowl-

edged its sensitivity, said the outline was precisely what he had in

mind, and that I should hold the paper rather than his taking it. He

then asked me to show it to Secretary McNamara and to the Attorney

General. I did so, today.

The outline was read by Mr. Frank Hand, MrNBrucel Cheever,

and by Lt-Col Patchell. I gave its general information to General

Johnson. Cheever said that the figures were the same he had given

me, for CIA operations; he noted that CIA intelligence reporting

was spotty now, due to lack of mail deliveries from Cuba.

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R.

FORD LIBPARY

178-10004-10216

178-10003-10319

178-10003-10296

178-10003-10334

MARIO

100.40

HH 53244

DocId: 32113009 Page 2

---

