# docid-32321689

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10377-10347

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62C-HQ-1029205-3532

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: NY

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/23/1997

3

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/05/1999

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32321689

71

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

(12/31/1995)

376

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence: DEADLINE 08/15/1997

Date: 07/23/1997

To:

New York

Attn: Eileen Rawlinson

From: Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

JFK Task Force,

Rm. 11144

Contact:

Brian J. Fields, Ext. 0583

Approved By: Keeley Carol I CLK/B97

Drafted By: Fields Brian J Bg7

Case ID #: 62-HQ-1029205 (Pending)

Title: John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (the Act)

Synopsis:

The Act established the Assassination Records Review

Board (ARRB) to oversee the governments' production and

compliance with the Act.

The ARRB reviews the proposed

postponements in documents sent by each agency to the National

Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and decides what

postponements

the Act allows or opens the document in full.

ARRB's responsibilities include having agencies search other

The

subjects and areas to find additional material not already

identified as assassination records.

The establishment of the

ARRB by the Act also limited the time for their duties to be

The ARRB must complete their tasks by September

1998.

With this deadline in mind, the ARRB sent a letter

requesting additional information.

GRF-96-1021205-3532

Enclosures: ARRB letter requesting material.

Details:

On July 9, 1997, the ARRB sent a letter to the FBI

setting forth a formal request to receive and review additional

records. The ARRB's goal is to research every possible subject

that may have a bearina on assassination theories and to assure

Congress

and the American public that all was done to accomplish

the intentions of the Act.

New York should conduct

a search for the listed items.

If New York is aware of any administrative records they may have

maintained outside the normal

index system, they should include

those areas in the search. If

any documents related to this

matter are found, please forward the documents to the JFK Task

Force.

Pursuant to the Act, any material categorized

assassination record must be

sent to the NARA in its original

form. The Act established the process of handling the documents

and the FBI must follow the Act. If your office believes they

need a

copy, you should copy the documents or material before

DocId: 32321689 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

New York

From:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

62-HQ-1029205, 07/23/1997

sending to the JFK Task Force.

Please conduct a search for main files and any

references on Lawrence

X. Cusack and forward all files to FBIHQ,

JFK Task Force, Attention: Brian J. Fields, Room 11144.

If you have any questions, please call Brian J. Fields

at (202) 324-0583.

2

DocId: 32321689

Page

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

62-HQ-1029205, 07/23/1997

LEAD (s) :

Set Lead 1:

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK

Conduct a search of your office for all files on

Lawrence X. Cusack.

Forward the material related to this request

to FBIHQ, JFK Task

Force, Attention: Brian J. Fields, Room 11144.

The results should be received at FBIHQ no later than C.O.B.

08/15/97.

- Carol L. Keeley, Room 11144

LuAnn

wilkins,

Room 11144

Brian

J. Fields, Roon

• 11144

3

DocId: 32321689

Page 4

---

