# docid-32307774

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10293-10132

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-5666-14, 15, 16

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :NIT 45754 Date:

11-17-2017

. Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BARRETT, ROBERT M.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/12/1966

PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

JFC, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, LEGITIMATE ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 RPT

v9.1

HH 45754

DocId: 32307774

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

DL 92-331

bookmaking activities and his association with JOSEPH

FRANCIS CIVELLO in bookmaking activities.

be done especially in view of the forthcoming footbal

season during which time it is believed the subject will

become extremely active in bookmaking.

2. Will locate and interview ROSS PELTON, 8458

Bellingham,

for information he has concerning the subject

subject's activities and

associates, noting that

PELTON's 1966 brown Oldsmobile, Texas license KPL 128,

has been observed at PHILIP STEPHENS BOSCO's service

station on numerous occasions.

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

DL T-1 is DL 299-PC

DL T-2 is DL 298-PC

DL T-3 is DL 271-C

DL T-4 is DL 247-C

DL T-5 is DL 185-C

- B* -

COVER

PAGE

NW 45754

DooId: 32307774 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 92-331

JOSEPH FRANCISC

TUEllO

On May 28, 1966, PHILIP STEPHENS BOSCO contacted

the informant on a social basis. During the conversation

TEXAS

informant steered the conversation to the subject of JoE

CIVELLO and the Italian element in Dallas.

Informant told

BOSCO he recalled when the Italians in Dallas had to clear

any activity through the PIRANIO brothers (CARLO and JOE) .

Informant stated he also heard that following their deaths,

CIVELLO attempted to succeed them.

BOSCO then told the following to the informant,

stating he had been furnished this information by JOE

CIVELLO:

During the 1920's, a "group" of Italians was

organized

in Dallas.

The "boss" was CARLO PIRANIO and the

No. 1 man

"under" CARLO was his brother, JOSEPH, who took

over when CARLO died in about 1930.

(The above

words in

quotation are those as used by BOSCO.) Members of this

group, according to CIVELLO, were himself, ROSS MUSSO,

FRANK IANNI, RALPH PATRONO, JOE!s father

a loss

PHILIP, CARLOS

CAMPISI, PETE DUCA and ROSS INTERRANTE.

This group engaged in some narcotics, gambling

fencing but they never were involved on a

very large

scale as all of the rackets in Dallas were then controlled

by a group of non-Italians.

Through the PIRANIOS the group

had connections with an Italian group in the Houston -

Galveston, Texas, area but CARLO and JOE PIRANIO were the

bosses for both of these groups. CIVELLO had bragged to

BOSCO that under the PIRANIOS the group was small but well

The RANTOS EA

organized and through the PIRANIOS the group also had

connections

had identified one of these as ROCCO PELLEGRINO.

In the late 1930's, CIVELLO went to the Federal

Penitentiary and according to BOSCO, CIVELLO has claimec

this was the beginning of a downfall of the Dallas group.

as he and PETER DUCA were the ones who held the Dallas

group together.

Gambling and prostitution were extremely lucrative

rackets in Dallas during the 1940's but were entirely under

the control of non-Italian hoodlums.

The Italian group at

that time was not strong enough, nor big enough, to take

over in Dallas and CIVELLO had

noted that even an organi-

zation from Chicago was unsuccessful when it tried to move

in and take over in Dallas.

2

HH 45754 DooId:32307774

Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 92-331

CIVELLO has requested BOSCO to slowly, but

surely, get rid of all non-Italians from the bookmaking

operation.

CIVELLO told BOSCO that if he gets a chance

to increase the group in Dallas he would attempt to propose

for membership BOSCO, PATRONO, NICK MORALL and SAM

LOMONACO ®

TEXAS

LOMONACO is a close personal friend of BOSCO's

and CIVELLO's and has assisted BOSCO in bookmaking operations.

in the past.

CIVELLO told BOSCO he could not use IANNI

because of his bad heart and could not use JOE CAMPISI

because of his "big mouth".

CIVELLO also stated he did

not like to have any dealings with PETE INTERRANTE because

PETE was "too hot headed"..

BOSCO told the informant he would keep him advised

Of CIVELLO's progress as he knew it would be of interest to

the informant who had expressed a desire to BOSCO to become

actively engaged in any operation with which JOE CIVELLO

was connected.

On June 20, 1966, DL T-l furnished the following

information which he obtained on June 16, 1966, from BOSCO:

BOSCO advised informant that baseball booking was

now practically non-existent and that BOSCO and his associates,

JOE CIVELLO and JOE IANNI, were anxiously awaiting the football.

season.

Informant in referring to his previous contact

with BOSCO asked BOSCO how it was that CIVELLO would become

such a close associate with BOSCO and IANNI if they were not

already members of CIVELLO's group. BOSCO told informant he

had never

said that IANNI was or was not a real close "friend"

of CIVELLO'S but that CIVELLO could not use him because of his

heart condition"friend" instead of member.

(Informant further noted that BOSCO was

using the term

BOSCO advised the informant that during the past

two years he had had the only money-making bookmaking operation

in the Dallas

no d bye

TENAS

NORVES YOUNGST

TANSION

4

NW 45754 DooId: 32307774 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DL 92-331

In the Summer of 1965 CIVELLO contacted BOSCO

and said. he desired to buy

"in" and perhaps there would

come a time when

BOSCO could use some help from CIVELLO's

"friends up East". Because of their long friendship and

BOSCO's desire to expand his bookmaking operation (which

would require more money) and his further desire to be a

closer "friend" of CIVELLO's, BOSCO agreed to let CIVELLO

and IANNI have interest in the bookmaking operation. BOSCO

then told the informant, "I'm not one of JOE's family yet

but I think I will be someday and so will you and NICK."

BOSCO was referring to NICK MORALE. BOSCO then told the

informant, "We all will make more money this way and won't

have to put up with people like NORVELLE or CLARENCE - just

our own kind."

Informant further advised that BOSCO did not

mention anything further about CIVELLO's efforts to expand

La Cosa Nostra (ICN) activity and membership in the Dallas

area and gathered from this that approval had not been

received by CIVELLO "from up East".

information:

On June 17,, 1966, DL I-2 furnished the following

During the past two weeks informant has taken

MORALE out to dinner on two occasions and has taken him

to some private clubs for some "social drinking" on three

or four other occasions under the pretext that informant

was trying to interest MORALE in the purchase of insurance

policies from the informant.

informant complained

that BOSCO would only take big

bets and therefore informant was not in a position to bet on

baseball or football like he desired.

(BOSCO previously

told the informant he would not handle anything but large

bets.)

5

HH 45751 DocId: 32307774

Page 5

---

## Page 6

. DL 92-331

MORALE then told the informant that anytime the

informant wanted to bet any amount, big or small, or

anything, he should contact MORALE

who would get it down

for the informant with BoSCo.

This discussion turned to

the general discussion of gambling in Dallas, to which

MORALE advised the informant that BOSCO and NORVELLE

STANFIELD practically controlled all football betting

during the Fall of 1965. MORALE said BOSCO will handle

any sort of bet now on baseball or horse races but that

business is very slow.

MORALE noted that BOSCO and STANFIELD appear to

be having some arguments recently as MORALE heard BOSCO

tell STANFIELD that if he was going to continue to put up

all the money and make all the arrangements for the apart-

ments and the telephones through his friends, he wanted at

least two-thirds of the profit instead of only 50% MORALE

stated it appeared that BOSCO was trying to get rid of

STANFIELD before the Fall of 1966.

Informant asked MORALE where BOSCO got all the

money for his bookmaking operation and MORALE said that two

of BOSCO's friends, JOE CIVELLO and JOE lANNI, had evidently

bought an interest in BOSCO's book and had helped put up the

money.

MORALE told the informant that it appears these

three men want to take over all bookmaking in Dallas and

BOSCO once told WORAld that if it were noaded, Cast.

could get some money from some of his friends

MORALE then told the informant he would do anything

for BOSCO as BOSCO had given him a job after MORALE went

bankrupt running a liquor store.

He stated BOSCO has always

taken good care of him and recently told him that if he

(MORALE) kept his nose clean and did what he was told, "We'll

make sure you have got no worries."

MORALE then told the informant he was sure that

BOSCO, CIVELLO and IANNI along with BOSCO's good friend.

SAM LOMONACO, were trying to set up an Italian organizatio

in Dallas.

MORALE identified LOMONACO as BOSCO's friend

who furnishes apartments and obtains telephone service for

the bookmaking operation.

BOSCO has described LOMONACO as

an old and trusted "friend".

6

NW 45754 DooId: 32307774

Page 6

---

## Page 7

DL 92-331

r..

activities and mostilikely this activity will increase

with the forthcoming

football season.

Bureau is aware

SA BARRETT was transferred to another office. In order

effort to develop violations on the subject, an investi

to bring a fresh approach to this investigation in an

gative type summary report will be prepared in an effort

to explore all possible avenues of approach toward this

end.

More specific information needs to be developed with

regard to BOSCO's relationship with other Italian hoodlums,

his specific tie-up with JOSEPH CIVELLO and JOE TANNI.

Further efforts need to be made

with regard to/an effective

Herts

coverage of subject's place of business to detect bookmaking

activities. Dallas Office believed concentrated effort

will have to be broughtoon BOSCO if we are to make a

gambling violation against him.

IRS has conducted extensive

investigation of BOSCO but has been unable to prove.

gambling.

Efforts will be made to review its investiga-

tion results.

Will maintain contacts with informants and --

seek to develop others who can furnish inside information as

to BOSCO's operation.

ADMINISTRATIVE

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

DL T-1 is DL 299-C-TE contacted by SA ROBERT

M. BARRETT

DL T-2 is DL 271-C contacted by SA HAROLD J.

EDGERTON

DL T-3 is DL 185-C contacted by SA HAROLD J.

EDGERTON

- B*-

Cover Page

174 45754

DooId: 32307774

Page 7

---

## Page 8

DL 92-331

2.

bookmaking activities.

Will maintain contact with informants as to subject's

3. Will continue review of pertinent files of associates

of subject in preparation of a summary report in this matter.

JFK Law 10(a)2

ADMINISTRATIVE

For the information of the Bureau, it has not been

possible to prepare a detailed summary type report in this matter

in view of other matters requiring expeditious attention. The

reporting Agent has discussed informally with AUSA B. H. TIMMINS

JR. the prior Grand Jury probe which involved the

Jand others, during which probe

was

subpoanaed before the Grand Jury and

Mr. TIMMINS advised that

the Grand Jury was

and as

a result only the four principals in the STONE, et al:, case

were prosecuted.

Mr. TIMMINS advised that he would give favorable

consideration any time the FBI felt a Grand Jury probe could be

productive to call a Grand Jury for that purpose.

A study of the BOSCO operation indicates that he has

anywhere from eight to ten men working for him and has

had others

in the past.

On most or all of these other individuals the Dallas

Office has conducted investigation.

The purpose of the summary

at this time would hope to outline for the USA the scope of

BOSCO's bookmaking operation, identify the principals, possibly

pinpoint those who might be willing to waive immunity and testify.

In addition it is hoped that after completion of a summary report

we can better concentrate on those aspects of the BOSCO operation

which offer the best chance of obtaining evidence and witnesses

for a Grand Jury.

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

T-1

is

DL

99-C contacted by SA WILL HAYDEN GRIFFIN.

T-2 is

DL

299-PC contacted by SA EDGERTON.

T- 3

is

298-PC, contacted by SA EDGERTON.

T- 4

is

CS

contacted by SA EDGERTON.

JFK Act 6 (4)

B*

COVER PAGE

HH 45754 DocId: 32307774

Page 8

---

## Page 9

DL 92-331

Detective HART also furnished the following information:

He advised that in checking the old Dallas directories

at the public library, he determined that CHARLES EDWARD CIVELLO

and JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO were partners with FRANK M. LA MONTE

in the operation of the Premier Distributing Company, 3205

Pennsylvania Avenue, Dallas, a foods and import company, during

the period of 1946 to 1949.

LA MONTE is the father-in-law of

CORTEMEGLIA, currently resides with CORTEMEGLIA, who married

He advised during the same period ROSS

MUSSO and JOSEPH CIVELLO had a grocery store at 8510 Denton

tatter 3t010 nvolving

Road, Dallas, and a liquor store at 8520 Denton Road, Dallas,

latter store involving partners JOSEPH CIVELLO and JOSEPH C.

MUSSO (father of ROSS MUSSO), with manager of the liquor store

listed as P. S. BOSCO.

On September 23, 1966, DL T-I advised that one CARLOS

MORAN, who has a relative in Mesquite, Texas, has been residingi

with

that relative for about three weeks. I-l advised that MORAN

is laying off bets in Lafayette, Louisiana, and West Baton Rouge

Parish, Louisiana, for PHILIP S.

both located on Ross Avenue, Dallas.

supposed to be in Mesquite for only a short period until a race,

trace located about forty miles from Chicago, Illinois, opens

and then MORAN will book at the track. T-1

further advised that

when the race track near Chicago closes, MORAN will go to New

Orleans, Louisiana, for the opening of the Fair Grounds Race

Track on Thanksgiving Day and will stay at that location until it

closes and then will move on to the Oak Lawn Race Tract at

Hot Springs, Arkansas, when it opens.

On September 30, 1966, DL T-2 advised that the name

CARLO MORAN was unfamiliar to him and be had no information that

MORAN was working for BOSCO in any bookmaking operation.

On September 28, 1966, DL T-3 advised he has known

BOSCO for a number of years and

in the past placed bets with

BOSCO.

T-3 advised that he placed such

• bets with BOSCo by

calling him on the telephone at his Gulf Service Sation located

on Ross Avenue, Dallas, to the telephone in the front of the

station. T-3 stated he would always place the bet personally

with BOSCO and no one élse. T-3 stated that he never placed

a bet for more than $20 and on one occasion BOSCO told him that

he would not accept any more bets unless T-3 was willing to go

higher to at least $50. T-3 advised that he could not afford

that much money for betting and discontinued placing bets with

BOSCO. T-l advised that in the recent past, several months ago,

BOSCO turned in one of his insurance policies and

received

a substantial sum and from what he heard it was around $15,000.

NW 45754 DooId:32307774 Page 9

---

