# docid-32301788

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10123

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 62-9-33-753

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/02/1968

3

GWG, ATTORNEY, CM, REL, VEHICLE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32301788

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

NO 92-50 / sam

the Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office continues its investi-

gation into the ownership of this vehicle, it being noted

that the vehicle was purchased in March, 1968, from CHARLES

EVANS, using the name LEONARD CUNNING.

dated

by MARCELLO's attorney, PHILLIP SMITH, and signed by

JOSEPH C. MARCELLO on 10/11/68, ten days after LEONARD CUNNING

was killed. This vehicle is presently impounded by the

Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office.

G. WRAY GILL further advised ROTH that CARLOS MARCELLO

wants this matter settled immediately as he has lost a large

amount of weight and spent many sleepless nights worrying about

his son's involvement in this matter.

New Orleans will follow this matter closely with

NO 1734-PC.

2%

DocId: 32301788

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FJ-36 (Res: 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

*Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code) :

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

12/2/68

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

(62-933)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS

(92-50)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

CARLOS MARCELLO

AR

NO 92-36

During the past week, New Orleans District Judge

exonerated

AARON OHN, Metropolitan Crime Commission, from

is "intimidation" of City Councilman EDDIE+SARIR as charge

by the New Orleans District Attorney's office.

This charge

was leveled against KOHN following his public disclosure

that SAPIR was a close confidant and associate of New Orleans

rackets boss CARLOS MARCELLO. The New Orleans District

Attorneys office intends to appeal this ruling.

Approache Carat tiny or CARLOS MA Rio tene

Unit, and inferred he could help ROTH financially if he could

alleviate some of the heat developing out of current

Jefferson Parish investigation into car purchased from

LEONARD CUNNING, who was shot and killed in Kansas City

on 10/1/68. When this car was purchased, MARCELLO's son

JOSEPH C. MARCELLO signed as purchaser and MARCELLO fears

that his son will be subjected to unfavorable publicity if

* Bureau (RM)

- New Orleans:

RECS2. 62-133 253

JCM: sam

(5)

• DEC

5

1968

08012

1968

Sent

- M

Per

DocId: 32301788

FE ore 1976

gecial Agent in Charge

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

NESC

EC 5 10 45 24968

Der 5 11 07 AN '58

U.S. DEFT

. BP AUSTICE

SPECIALINVIS"

DIVISION

1666/18

(SEE DONED COMMON).

DocId: 32301788

Page 4

---

