# docid-32299987

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10226-10267

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-3487-2, 3,4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: KUYKENDALL, EDWIN D.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/03/1958

• PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS:

NRO, NEW BUSS VENTURE, DL, TX, SLOT MACHINE

OPERATIONS, CUBA, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM, 3 MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32299987

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE:

ANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STALES GOVERNMENT

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (97-3487)

We sac, HA

(97-213)

SUBJECT: NORMAN

ROTHMAN

IS -

DR;

RA

00 - Dallas

DATE: 4/16/58

Re Dallas let to Bureau, 4/3/58, setting forth

a lead for Miami to ascertain If NORMAN ROTHMAN of Dallas,

Texas, is identical with NORMAN ROTHMAN, associate of

JOSEPH MEROIA, wa., subject of a jewelry theft ring,

Miami file 87-6932.

On April 14, 1958, MM 360-C, who is acquainted

with NORMAN ROTHMAN of Miami and Havana, Cuba, advised

SA CHARLES A. HARDISON that the photograph of NORMAN

ROTHMAN published in the "Dallas Morning News" on

of Miami and Havana. The informant said that ROTHMAN,

formerly associated with the San Souci Club, Havana,

was residing at the Folksa Apartments, Havana, in

March of 1958, and continues his slot machine operations

in Cuba.

with NORMAN ROTHMAN of Dallas.

RUC.

E?BOWYCE - HYJIHI

2 - Bureau (RM)

- Pana 2057459 cases a 3457-41

2 - Miami

(1-137-39)

EX-135

APR 18 1958

CNE: dIp

(6) .

y 44

DO APR 2 1 1958

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED * 313326

DATE 4/31/35

B/S86B

5-31-94

SPEMAC

DocId: 32299987 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

EX. - 135

1 - Cotter

SAC, Dallas (205-745)

REG- 6a,

Director, FBI (97-3487) - 3

'SECREEN

4/25/58

MOAN NOIAN

IS - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC T3ЯO32

REGISTRATIOV ACT

115/98

CLASSIMED BY 5668-340 me

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK)

Reurlet 4/3/58, requesting that the Bureau

obtain coptes of subject's income tax returns for the

past two years.

Inasmuch as no information has been developed

to date indicating that subject has been employed by

Dominican offlotals prior to 1958, there does not

appear to be sufficient basis for checking subjeet's

income tax returns for the past two years. In the

event you should subseguently develop information

showing that subject may have been paid by Dominican

officials prior to 1958, you should resubmit this

request.

RDOsegg

(4)

NOTES

anis investigation was based on contact

between Rochman of Dallas, Texas, and Dominican LS-

Ambassador De Moya 1/21/58. During contact, subject

inquired as to nether decision had been made

regarding his working for Dominican Gou't "on year-round

basis."

subject indicated he had some plops regarding

"Dominican Tair which was just starting

• Into developed

by Dallas to date rejlects subject recently established

public relations firm in Dallas.

(page 25b) instructs that reguests for income tax returns

should be carefully reviewed by the Supervisor as to

potential value.

1/31/85

assmed

Declassity on

105 RMB,

SPL BJA

ALL INTORMATION CONTATIED

HEREIN IS UICLASSAFTED

EXCEPT SHERE 3H

VN

04728, 36

Tell

Tolson

Nichols

Boardman

Belmont

Mohe

Parsons.

Rosen

Tomm

Trotter -

Nease.

Tele. Room

Holloman

pane:

50 APK17

DocId: 32299987

2933

APR 1 5 1958

COMM -EDI

SECRET

Vb8 T 0 1828

6500

Page

3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

Standard Form No. -64

OFFICE

TO

MEMORANDUM # UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

SECRET

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-3487)

DATE: 4/3/58

TRONA: S0

DALLAS (105-745)

ALL TATIT ITTAN PININER

En.

Oilitara s

SUBJBCT:

NORMAN ROTHHAN

IS - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC; REGISTRATION ACT

00 = DALLAS

Re report of SA EDWIN D. KUYKENDALL, Dallas, dated April 3,

1958, which, 1s enclosed herewith.

memorandum to accompany that report. Also enclosed to Miami is

one

copy of a news articlo which appeared in the Dallas Morn-

ing News, Dallas, Texas, October 8, 1957, containing NORMAN ROTH-

MAN's photograph

Observation of 1407 Patterson Street, Dallas, on April 1, 1958,

was by SA EDWIN D. KUYKENDALL.

The enclosed report has been classifiad confidential since it

reflects

investigation conducted

ol a foreign diplomatlo establishment &nection with coverage

For Information of Little Rock and Miami, Dallas file entitled

"CHESTER ZOCHOWSKI,, Was;: JOSEPH MEROLA,

[1ttle Rock orlgin, Burtle 87-34982, Little Rock fIle 87-2816,

ITSP - MAJOR THEFT"

Miami file 87-6932, Dallas file 87-5076, reflocts. subjects of

that case are a part of & jewelry theft

ring.

Dallas file in

that case reflects NORMAN ROTHMAN, president of the San Soucl

Club, Havana,

Cuba, Is an associate of persons connected with

that jewelry theft ring.

It also reflects NORMAN ROTHMAN of

Miami

was (In 1956) one of the owners of the San Souct CIub,

Havana. That file reflects JOSEPH MEBOLA In May, 1956, was et-

Los, Angeles

(Enels. 2)

Classied by SPoRtAlseL

Miami (RM) (Encls. 3)

= Mi Iwaukee (RM) (Encis. 2)

Declassin on: DA

- New York City (RM) (Enols.

381884(073)

3

- Washington Field (RM) (105-17747) (1-65-3731) (Enols.

3 • Dallas

EDK/ 116

(16)

let to Dallas

REG 42

-3

4-15-58

clear sit sion

-

4.108

17 APR ID 1950

--=

DECLASSIFY ON: 26X

(OFF)

"SECKE

DocId: 32299987

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

(SFORETI

DE. 105-745

he planned to take a trip through Texas to check on some Jewelry

salesman in that area.

MEROLA Indicated he had several tipsters

In Texas who gave him

such information.

Associates of that

group in Dallas were not named.

NORMAN ROTHMAN In that case

1s not sufficiently identified from which a determination can

be made that NORMAN ROTHMAN, now of Dallas, Is identical. The

possibillty exists they may be identical.

Dallas office indices reflect no other information concerning

Dallas files reflect no Information concerning ROTH-

MAN's association with persons in the Dominican Republic and

no Information that would indicate he is acting for or in behalf

of the Dominican Republic.

Investigation to date has failed to provide à physical descrip-

tion for NORMAN ROTHMAN of Dallas

except meager descriptive data

obtained by observing his newspaper photograph.

1-2 from observing this photogranh believed ROTHMAN would be

forty or forty-five years of age; that he has dark hair and

is partly bald.

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

FILE NUMBER WHERE LOCATED

Dallas 105-745-1,2

Instant report

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

I-1

984-547151

I-2

H. H. HUGHES,

Offico Managor,

Dun and Bradstreet,

Incorporated, 318 North

St. Paul, Dallas (request)

T- 3

H. R. CHILDRESS

Mall carrier, Walnut Hi11

Station Post Office, Dallas,

Texas, who 1s familiar with mail

deliveries on Coogan Drive, Dallas

(Bureau instructions)

Instant report

-2- (SECRET

DocId: 32299987 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hoport Form

8D-263 (5112-557

FEDERAL BUREAU SPE. INVESTIGATION BENTIAL

Reporting Offoo

CIA HAS NO UBJECTEN TO

Dato

Intestigatina Period

DALLAS DECLASER,, DALLAS/OR

4/3/58

2/27:3/6:4/1,2/58

TITLE OF CASE

RELEASE UF CIA INTORMATION

Report mado by

IN THIS DOCUMENT. 5 M

9-3-97

SA EDWIN D. KUYKENDALL

11b

SLD/KSR

CHARACTER OF CASE

NORMAN ROTHMAN

1-16-98

INTERNAL SECURITY - DOMINICAN

115,98

(JFK)

REPUBLIC; REGISTRATION ACT

Cleant

OFk,

voniidential informant furnished information that. NORMAN ROTHNAN

of Dallas on 1/21/50 contacted MANUEL DJ MOYA, Dominican Repub- (S

110 Ambassador, Washington, D. U. Informant advised ROTHMAN

wanted to know if any decisions had been made concerning his

working for the Dominican Government "on a year-round basis,

DE MOYA told ROTHMAN he would advise him when his government CS

had made a decision. ROTHMAN stated that since the "Dominican

Fair"' was starting he might go to the Dominican Republic to see

Generalissimo RAFAEL L. TRUJILLO concerning the matter NORMAN

ROTHMAN, 10715 Googan Drive, Dallas, Texas, formerly or Mil-

waukee, Wisconsin, came to Dallas to be Southwest Public Rola-

t1on8 Director for City of Hope, a national medical center,

Los Angeles, California. In October, 1957, ROTHMAN announced

opening of his new firm, Southwest Associates, public relations

and merchandising consultants, 1407 Patterson Street, Dallas.

Investigation revealed 1407 Patterson Street is address of an

outdoor parking lot. " ROTHMAN presently resides with wife,

GLORIA KINGAROTHMAN

ALL'INFORMATION CONTAINED

at 10715 Coogan Drive, Dallas,

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

-P-

Classified by

EXCELT WHERE SHOWN

DETAILS

OTHERWISE

Approved

contes at 3

Special Agent

mans erranons

In Change

Do not trite so opacons belon

Bureau

(97-3487)

Tittle Rock

(RM)

REC- 42

NUNN

-

-

Miami

Tia 1 FAM"

(RMS

Milwaukee (RM)

-

New York City (RM)

74-108

- Washington Field

(RM)

(105-17741) 1

- 65-3731)

7 APR - O 15tu

3 - Dallas

(105-745)

COPIES DESTROYED

R 287 APR 20 1961

'50 APR 17 1958

3 REQ. REC'O

AGENCY RAB, State, cora

DATE F014. 4-1458

HOW FORN.,

1510

Rất (ja)

SECRFT

ESSENTIAL

Proporty of III - Thia report la loched to you by ibe F'l, and bellher il dor lia contents are lo be diatibuted outaida the agenoy to which locod

DocId: 32299987

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USC 2TUT Hotey.

DATE: *11-11-2017

(SECRET

DE 105-745

Dallas confidential informant I-l on January 21, 1958, adwised

that NORMAN ROTHMAN of Dallas, Texas, that day contacted Domin- LS

1can Republic Ambassador MANUEL DE MOYA at Washington, D. C.

Informant advised ROTHMAN desired to know if any decision had

been made concerning ROTHMAN's working for the Dominican Gov-

matter to the Dominican Republic for approval.

ROTHMAN that when a

Government, he, DE MOXi Ion hat been reachedley the Dominioan ESJ

ROTHMAN, according to the informant, stated that he, ROTHMAN,

had some plans which would do the Dominicans

"some good."

ROTHMAN further stated that in view of the fact that the "Dom-

Inican Fair! is starting, he thought he might to go the Dom-

inican Republic and speak with Generalissimo RAFAEL-L. TRUJILLO

concerning the matter. DE MOYA reiterated that he would advise (SJ

ROTHMAN when bis government had made a'decision.(g)

The 1957 Dallas City Directory reflects NORMAN ROTHMAN, wife

GLORIA, Regional Director, City of Hope, resides at 10715

•Coogan

• Drive, Dallas, Texas.

"That diroctory has no listing for

City of Hope.

The November, 1957, Dallas Telephone Directory reflects NORMAN

RO THMA N

'resides at:10715 Coogan, Dallas, Texas. That direc-

tory has no listing for City of Hope.

MRS. BIRDIE SUE BELCHER, Reta1] Merchants Credit Association"

Dallas, on February 27, 1958, advised SA EDWIN D. KUYKENDALI

that NORMAN ROTHMAN, 10715 Coogan Drive, Dallas,

has been known

to her agency since February 13, 1956, and was last checked

on September 12, 1956. In 1956, ROTHMAN was employed, report-

edly, by City of Hope, a medical research conter located at

Duarte, Califoria.

He reportedly moved to Dallas from Mil

waukee, Wisconsin, to be Regional Director in charge of public

relations for the City of Hope.

The maiden name of ROTHMAN'S

wife was listed as GLORIA

KING. ROTHMAN formerly resided at

6815 Herry. Hines Boulevard, Dallas, and at 4028A North Elm-

hurst, Milwaukee.

MRS. BELCHER. stated that a newspaper article which appeared in

an unidentified newspaper in October, 1957, stated NORMAN ROTH-

-2-

(SECKEI

DocId: 32299987

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John T? Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note)!

DATE:- 11-11-2017

Hopart Porm

+D-263 (512-557

Raparting Offloa

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAUERE INVESTIGATION

CONPRE TIAL

Offloo of Origta

InTestigative F

DALLAS

2/27:3/6:4/1,2/58

NORMAN ROTHMAN

423/58

Roport mado by

SA EDWIN D. KUYKENDALL

CHARACTER OF CASE

INTERNAL SECURITY - DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC; REGISTRATION ACT

sypod Dyi

Ilb

Дувороа:.

Approved

Copies no

confidential informant rumnished intormation that NORMAN ROTENAN

of Dallas on 1/21/58 contacted MANUEL DE MOYA, Dominican Repub- (S

l1c Ambassador, Washington, D. C. Informant advised ROTHMAN

wanted to know.

If any decisions had been made concerning his

working for the Dominican Government "on a year round basis.

DE MOYA told ROTHMAN he would advise him wher his government LS

had made a decision. ROTHMAN stated that since the "Dominican

Fair" was starting he might go to the Dominican Republic to see

GeneraliSSiMO RAFAEL L. TRUJILLo concerning the matter

ROTHMAN, 10715 Coogan Drivé, Dallas, Texas, formerly of Mili.

waukée, Wisconsin,, came to Dallas to be Southwest Public Rela-

Director for City of Hope, a national medical center,

Los Angeles, California. In October, 1957, ROTHMAN announced

opening of his new firm, Southwest Associates, public relations

and merchandising consultants, 1407 Patterson Street, Dallas.

Investigation revealed 1407 Patterson Street is address of an

outdoor parking lot.

ROTHMAN presently resides with wife,

GLORIA KING ROTHMAN at 10715 Coogan Drive, Dallas.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

-P-

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Classified/by

EXCEPT FIESE SSOWN

DETAILS

eclassif on: OADR 4/31/35

OTHERHICE

+ 21.32

- Special Agent

In Charge

Do not into ta speccas

Bureau

(97-3487)

inittle

RM)

-

M9am1158208

(RM.

Miami

Milwaukee. (RM)

New York City (RM)

- Washington Field

(RM.)

Hilas

CLASSIFIED BY Sebo Sende

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(GFR

(105-17741)

65-3731)

3 - Dallas (105-745).

SECRETI

CONCARTITIAL

FBI, and naither it nor lie contonti

ain to be

distributed outside tho

agenay to which lo

Probarty of PAl - This, sonart la, loaned

DocId: 32299987

Page 8

---

