# docid-32392461

## Page 1

Date: 10/15/01

Page: 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10413-10305

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : RUSS HOLMES WORK FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection

act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54046 Date:

08-24-2017

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO :

TITLE :

DIA

KIRTLAND AFB, NEW MEXICO

INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION REPORT: BIOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF

NEUTRON IRRADIATION/ ALSO SEVEN (7) STATE DEPARTMENT

DOCUMENTS

DATE: 10/18/63

PAGES: 2324

SUBJECTS : MOSKALEV, YURIY

DOCUMENT. TYPE : PAPER,

TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULI

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 11/27/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK-RH08: F154 1998.11.27.10:41:37:670120: PAGE COUNI

INCLUDES

• TWO

ENVELOPES

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NN 54046

DocId: 32392461

Page 1

---

## Page 2

6692547

DERAP MENT OF DEENS: HA/HEING: IN OLMATON REPORT

19d0 forumoni eonenina inlumalion

allacrend tra narronal rolando of lna Unitos

scardo a linen tha moonine ol eno deplonado

lavo. Tello 18.U.5.8

sec. 181 and 784

Tha rananiaalon no lha coralasion of llo

conlonio In any mernor lo an uneuthorlaad

pardon la prollblead by lam.

SEl, daT

CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION/ NO

DISSEMINATION ABROAD 1O

I'lodollicallon and Control Merkinda,

Thra report containe unprocandard infuriallas

riene an of policiea anould nor be arnirec

'em dilian aololy on the boolo of ella capers

I. COUNTRY

USSR

8. REPORI MUMSER

1569 0007 63

& SUBJECT:

(U) biological Effects uf Neutron s. DATE OF REPORT:

Irradiation

October 1463

J. ISC MUMBER:

A. DATE OF INFORMATION: "

7-11 Oct 63

S. PLACE ANO DATE OF ACO: UptOR, LoIoe

N. Yo 2

USA, 7-11 Oct 63

6. EVALUATION:

SOURCE

INFORMATION.

7. SOURCE: AFWE 63007

2

Elli

REFERENCES:

FID-5462-N, CIA-41357, ASC-23

1 569

0006 63

1 569 0008

63

12. ORIGINATOR:

FTD,

ArWl, Kirtland AFB, wex

Willa

13. PREPARED BY:

USAF

Carl E.C

PA'APPROVING AUTHORITY: CARI, E. TREXLER, Ltüol, LiSAF

the source on the interests and competence of two Sovist

Source is a radiation biologist with an extensive background

applied research in

of effects

of neutron irradiation on a biological

specinen.

Source felt thut the Soviet contributions did not present any new

approaches to the problems

of radiation biology but that the contributions did

reveal a high level of Soviet competence in the field. (C)

46303754.

1. Tho tro Soviet scientists who made contributions at the symposzum on.

radiations were V. I. IVANOV, Institute , 1

Biophysics, Academy of fedical Science, Moscow.

send FU. T MOSLAV, Instituto of

6802547

V: I. IVANOV, in my opinion, would be described as

a nealth-physicist with

particular interest in neutron

dosimetry.

He appeared

to be quite competent in

his fiela. At the completion of a presentation which I made, Ivan v asked if I

nad indeed used a pulse-type roactor without

a moderator as my neutron environ

ment source. I answered his question affirmatively

and he appeared to be quite

astounded. Ivanov was a man of small stature, slender (140 lbs.), black hair,

ATOR:

18 01198

FTE (TDA).

AFSC (SOFDA)

AFSC (SCFT )

HO US STRIKE COMMAND

MCDILL, AFB, FLA (STRJ2-SR)

AID (AF)

SSD (SSF)

17.00WNGRADING DATA:

DOWNGRADED -AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS,

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED.

DOD DIR 5200.10

HH

Page

2

271

- SECRET

CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION/

NO DISSEMINATION ABROAD

Control Markindo)

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION SHEET

CONTROLLED DISSE: INATION/NO

DISSEMINATION ABROAD

(Clocallicallor and Control Markinds)

REPORT NO.

1569 0007 63

PAGE

2

OF

2

ORIGINATOR FTD, AFVL, Kirt-

land ArB, thex

PAGES

(Loato Blank

very stern faced, and I would estimate his age to be approximately 35 years.

He dressed in a typical Russian style, pin-striped suit, broad lapels and

padded shoulders.

He understood English very well but had difficulty speaking

YU. I. MOSKALEN would be described as a radiation biologist.

He aypeared

to have a broad backpround in biology with lesser emphasis on physics.

of medium stature, 175-185 Ibs, and probably in his early 50.o, dressed in

mee net ther spoke nor understood English.

typical Russian style. (S)

Both of these

Soviets impressed me as being very competent scientists.

The work they presented was not anything new,

but they were very well

on its content.

They answered questions graciously and fully and did not make

avoid questions on their work.

They were very alert during the

various sessions, took a copious amount of notes and asked questions of many

of the contributors. (C)

From the work which the Soviets presented, it appeared that they were not

Involved in basic "Ivory tower" type research, but rather in what we would call

applied research.

From the number of co-authors which appeared on their papers

one would tend to think that a rather large effort was being made in this fiold.

6. Repeatedly, the Soviets asked questions about the effects and measurenent

of intermediate-range (epi-thermal) neutrons (which have energies in the ran,;?

::f 200 EV tc. 0.50 MEV).

They indicated a great deal more interest in the

intermediate range neutrons than did their U.S. counterparts. (S)

7. I heard through unofficial channels that the AlC was going to invite both

Moskalev and Ivanov back to Brookhaven for one of their heälth-physits

meatings sometine within the near future. I belleve this would be an excellent

chance for exploitation due to their willingness to discuss work in their

fiald. (C)

NW 01046

DocId: 32392461

Page 3

SECRET

CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION NO

DISSEMINATION ABROAD

JU.

tAlCH H

---

## Page 4

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

1.

DOD Information Report - SECRET

Report # 1 569 0007 63, dated 18 October 1963

Subj: Biological Effects of Neutron Irradiation

14 54046 DocId: 32392461

Page 4

---

## Page 5

492547.

DERATIMEN ODETENGE NCIUCINCE MOLLIAHON FLFORT

i'lf. The darument containe

allocrine lna nattunal delands of sha Unlead

Siarad melthin llo meanire of lo asplorado

lairo. Tillo 18. U.S.6..

soc.

793 and 794

Tro ronomioalon ne lha coralation of llo

contario In any manner lo an unauthorlaod

poraun la prohiblind by lame.

thia rapori containe unproco

CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION/NO

DISSEMINATION ABROAD 1O

I'lanelliallon and Control Markinds,

Plena and os policies ahould not be aralred

or mullion dolaly on the badle of lala rapin

1. COUNTRY

USSR

8. REPORT HUMSER:

1569 0007 63

SUBJECT:

(U) biological Effects of Neutron 9. DATE OF REPORT:

Irradiation

18 October 1463

Two

3. ISC NUMBER:

11. REFERENCES:

Elle

FID-5462-Ng

CIA-41357, AEC-23

1 569 0006

63

1 569 0008 63

DATE OF INFORMATION:: 7-11 Oct 63

12. ORIGINATOR: FTL,

Aril, Kirtland Ars, we

13. PREPARED BY SilL

PLACE AND DATE OF ACO: UptON, LoIee

N. Yor

USA, 7-11

Oct 63

6. EVALUATION:

SOURCE

B.

INFORMATION_

USAE

Tail 8.O6pa

14 'APPROVING AUTHORITY:

CARI, E. TREXLER, Ltcol, liSA?

7. SOURCE: AFWE 63007

General comnents by the source on the interests and competence of two Sovi:t

scientists.

Source is a radiation biologist with an extensive background

applied research in the field of effects of neutron irradiation on a biological

Source felt thut the Soviet contributions did not present any new

approaches to the problems of radiation biology but that the contributions did

raveal a high level of Soviet competence in the field.

16303754-

1. The two Soviat sciontists who made contributions at.

the Symposium on

Biolose affects at neutron

radiations were V. I. IVANOV, Institute if

Engineers and Physical Scientists,

Moscow, and XU. I: MOS AliV, Institute of

Biophysics, Academy of Medical Science, Moscow.

6802547

20

V. "I. IVANOV, in my opinion, would be described

a health-physicist with

particular interest in neutron dosimetry.

He appeared to be quite competent in

his field.

At the completion of a presentation which I made, Ivan v asked if I

nad

indeed used a pulse-type reactor without a moderator as my neutron environ

ment source.

I answered his question affirnatively and he appeared to be quite

astounded

Ivanov was a man of small stature, slender (140 Ibs.), black nair,

DISTHIOUTION BY ORIGINATOR:

FTD (TDA)-

AFSC. (SOFDA)

AFSC (SCFT )

HQ US STRIKE COMMAND

MCDILL AFB, FLA (STRJ2-SR)

AID (AIF)

SSD (SSF)

17. DOWNGRADING DATA:

DOWNGRADED-AT 1 YEAR- INTERVALS;

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED.

DOD DIR 5200.10

21371

Page 5

CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION/

NO DISSEMINATION ABROAD

allon and Control Martindo)

---

## Page 6

DRANKEN OI DRONE HIRLENG NO MATON REPORT

SECREA. "-

REPORT NO.

1569-0007 63

CONTINUATIONSHEET

CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION/NO

PAGE

2

OF

2

DISSEMINATION ABROAD

ORIGINATOR FTD, AFUL, Kirt-

land AFB, Niex

(Clapellicallor and Control Markings)

very stern faced, and I would estimate his age to be approximately 35 years.

He dressed in a typical Russian style, pin-striped suit, broad lapels and

padded shoulders.

He understood English very well but had difficulty speaking

the language. (S)

to have 2- rose backeroud ben birder at rata on biologi pay tie a pared

typical Russian style.. (S)

Both of these Soviets impressed me as being very competent scientists.

The work they presented was not anything new, but they were very well versed

on its content.

They answered questions graciously

and fully and did not make

an attempt to avoid questions on their work.

They were very alert during the

various sessions, took a copious amount of notes and asked questions of many

of the contributors. (C)

From the work which the Soviets presented, it appeared that they were not

Involved In basic "ivory tower" type research,

but rather in what we

would call

applied research. From the number of co-authors which appeared on their papers

one would tend to think that a rather large effort was being made in this field.

(C)

6.

Repeatedly, the Soviets asked questions about the effects and measurement

of intermediate-range (epi-thermal) neutrons (which have energies in the range

Af 200 EV to 0.50 MEV.

They indicated a great deal

more interest in the

intermediate range neutrons than did their U.S. counterparts. (S)

7. I heard through unofficial channels that the AtiC was going to invite both

MoskaleV and Ivanov back to Brookhaven for one of their health-physics

motings sometine within the near fusure. I belleve this would be an excellent

chance for exploitation due to their willingness to discuss work in their

field. (C)

PAGES:

HIT

5401

SECRET

CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION/ NO

DISSEKINATION ABROAD

REPLACES AF FORM 112A..

01 FHICH

---

## Page 7

STATE DEPARTMENT DOCUMENTS

1.

From Dept. of State to AmEmbassy Moscow - Unclassified

No. A-4168, dated 12 May 1973

Subj:

Invitation to Soviet Scientist to

Participate in U.S. Symposium

2. To Dept. of State Wash., D.C. from Amembassy Moscow - Secret

No. A-969, dated 24 August 1971

Subj:

A Murky Business Involving

Exchange Scientist

Dr. Patrick J. Sutherland

3.

Notes Source: Collected from files, U.S. Embassy Moscow - Conf

Dated May 1970

4..-

Dept. of State Incoming Telegram

Control # 2744, dated 3 October 1963, Limited Official Use

States 'Reproduction from this copy is prohibited unless

unclassified"

5. Dept. of State Incoming Telegram

Control # 22050, dated 28 September 1963, Limited Official

States "Reproduction from this copy is prohibited unless

unclassified"

6. Dept. of State Incoming Telegram

Control # 21910, dated 28 September 1963, Limited Official

States "Reproduction from this copy is prohibited unless

unclassified"

7.

Dept. of State Airgram to Dept. of. State from Amembassy Moscow

Dated 10 September 1963,

Subj: Visas: Nonimmigrants IVANOV, V. I. et al

HH 54046 DooId:32392461 Page 7

---

## Page 8

INCOMING TELEGRAM

35

Action

P

6002547

• Department of Sidte

2-5100

ORDe

IMITED OFFICIAL, USE

Control:

21910

Rec'd:

September 28, 1963

ocifin

OS/NSN

2-UX2

CIA

NSA

SCA

VO

NSF

RMR

FROM: Vienna

10:

Secretary of State

NO:

782, September 28, 3 powe

ACTION DEPARTMENT 782, INFORMATION MOSCOW 29

IAEA

Reference: Department A-112; DEPTEL 1001

GiR

FBID

0.51

Moskaley will present survey paper at Brookhaven Sympositn

Date and place birth not avallable Vienna.

RIDDLEBERGER

SYT-19

51/516

2 CA/O.

SK

51/107

LIMITED DFFICIAL USE

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS

COPY IS

- PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

22

HY 54046. DocId:32392161

Page 8

---

## Page 9

600254°

Cose 41357

Fotice of Intelligenco Potentiel

Date 33 Sep

cember 1963

1.

mporUm oI Biological Elects of feutroI Indi-

pred by the International Atonle Brerzy Agency

(7AA)

Taland,

Ky York from 4-11 Osteber 1963

The Spigoelun

to the sympostun on leutron Detection, Dosimetry

and Standerdization, Harvell, Ingland, 10-14, December 1962.

The

syu osiva program includes sessions on Dosimetty, Proton, Panel on

Blophysical Considerations in Neutron Imperimentation,

Cellular and

Genotie Errects, Patholasy, and Folatira Biological Affectivenese.

2.

indicated:

The followinG sorets ure scheduled te preseat papere es

So deis

SONOROVA, I: Bo s

Super,

LE;

Muscow "Production uà inrestigation of Done Fielos

Ior Irradiation of merimental Animala vich Enataus

of Fino Energy"

KEYRON MARUS, I. Bo, ROMANSY, Fo Io,

.V. Vos

Moscor,"Ihe Messurement of Fissue Doses

Si leutsone behiud Resetor Shielding"

68025471291AT

Institute of Blophysies, Aesdery of

Fedics).

"Mologicai effect of fast

An additional Soviet scientist, nene nos given, is to

axesent a paper on benith and salety aspects

of the use of neutrona.

3, CD/00 ulIl have a nunher of cleared sources in atter-

d209.

requirments classified through SBoRET are tarited ard

should be recested in this division by 30 September 1963 11 they are

are to be utilized for briering namposes.

ExciUded EroI Autontic

Dorngrading and Declessification

HH 54046 DOcId:32392461 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SOMING TELEGRAM

Depariment of Siate

49 LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

60020÷7

20100

Action

VO

Inío

HUR

CU

SOMA

NSA

SCA

FBI

CONTROL: 2744

RECD 9

OCTOBER 5, 1953, 3:50PM

TROM:

MOSCOW

TO:

SECRETARY OF STATE

HeRR

Cobo

1115, OCTOBEB 32 19632 6PM

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

SPLEX

DEPTEL 1052

35R

VISAS HORSE

T.

I.

IVANOV

OCT 5 SK-911®

AND YO MOSKALEV 2 ALIENS) BEEN WORK

CEN 1032: 2 - 5 - 911

ICA

20009

KOHLER

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

PROMIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

HY 54046 - DocId:32392461 Page: 10

---

## Page 11

I CERONG TELEGRAM

43

Action

AEC

Info

EUR

IO

SCI

CU

USIA

INR

"CEA

NSA

SCÀ

VO

NSE

RMR

33

+1/C

2-51D:

Department of State

10002547202/2

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

Control:

22050

September

28

2:30 p.m.

1963

FROM: Moscow

TO:

Secretary of State

NO:

1057, September 28, 2 p.m.

ACTION DEPARIMENT 1057; INFORMATION VIENNA 16

PASS AEC

Reference: Department telegram 1003, sent Vienna 1001

State Committee officials advised that V.

I. Ivanov ano

MoSkaley will attend IAEA symposium at Brookhaven

October 7C11. Visa applications sent Department airgram

331,

September 10. Committee unaware participation M. Zelchinsky

and no visa application received by Embassy, Committee promises

arrival information next week.

Fourth set AEC technical documents delivered and officials

state Soviet documents en route.

All copies AEC trip report

delivered sither directly, through Committee; or through other

appropriate offices.

STOESSEL

LeM

IAEA. rention Lisadention

2 Telepams

Bio local effects f. Simp

attached.

os, ripton,

BoTh:

I come

7-11 Ock 63

backfile

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED

20

HH 54046 DocId:32392461 Page 11г0

---

## Page 12

RESKALEN,

VERi

Source: Collected from files,

US Embassy,

Mos

NOZ FOR RELEASE IN THIS FORM TO NON-CI

--...

Виці кинцю

lay 1970

QUESTERS

"FIDELTAL

/Toninesze, %.l Chairsan, Organizing Coittee, Conference on Cloud Physics and leather lodification, Transcaucasian Research lydro

retecrlogical institute, '150 Plekhanov Evenue", Toilisi, OSSR.

~Iinkoy, Alcksey lasil'yevich, Author of several books thick contain "solutione to the importani diriorentsal equations which arise in *

fiald of coupied flous."

aberck, lia die Head of GillIsveinet, lias to dare delivered a paper it the lorid Symposium on Lead and Zine sponsored bu lie AbE alogith

Ers. G. il. Pakhonova and 1. 5. Retskin, but friled to reply to correspondence even when hanu delivered by ArEna Sci attache,: Jod 28L da 09:

Later he expirined he was on a long trip.

harico, do Ia. (skhaylon?), Professor, Purector, VITI (sel i tech info).

Lestevitinor, Foria Screevich Forolen Pelations Deartent, inlit of Henlth Us Good relish. Conceaned with exchanges.

Lodestone, M. lio

Intergretro, linketry of Healthe ibrut 47, strong seatures, lore equaline nose, Inrse dark eyes, red hair (prob dyed).

so: deze in sath in her youth, lias dautter 20 and son Abcut R. Cool Suellch, soce Presch, no leman, las curiour about the present est-

¡naldon of illilureva, this shn described as "an into'ligent siri, but schizophrende, I bilieve." Of Armenian extraction tut lever lised there.

saint any gera in Tilisi. Hushand dead. Lives or the satovage scaentore south.of Wis Dabasay.: Her boy is a ponr rath studen!. Contact

sara hodeativa praped hia thorehly-for bio, dala on hiself, Said hushad dead only 6icus, conflictma rath story of prother inimpretar

Ata sadd infesi ova's husbrind dead a year and a haisa. Apa 10.

yes tier, furly Toutfovich, Frolubüy lead of emerica section, fornien testins Dojortant, leady de salfere. Sore Initiration thee he tried

fossthig Kop.

H 54046 DocId: 32392161 Page 12

---

## Page 13

ORIGIN ACTION

EIRE

AM/R

REP

I NOSKALEN

DEPARTENE OF STATE

GRAM

6002547

SCI 6-1ÜSSR

FOR RM USE ONLY

ARA

EUR

PE

NEA

A-969

NO.

TO

SECRET

ARCEMET

Department of State

TATE

HANDLiNGINDICATOR

FBO

AID

(4698096971

SeT

AGR

SEP 1

0.2o AniS/1

2

COM

FRB

FROM

..:

Amembassy MOSCON

PATE: August 24, 1971

INT

LAB

TAR

SUBJECT: A Murky Business/ Involving Exchange Scientist

Dr. Patrick J. Sucherland

TR

хма

REF

ARMY

3

US

16

USTA

10

WIC

NSC

On August 1o, by. sutherland, a geologist came to the imbassy to sees the

advice and

Officer concerning sone t

troubling behavior

ovara hare of certain oracials of the Acadary of Sclences of the usse

AM 10

COPYFLO-PBR

He arrived on August 15 and contacted Yuriy MOSKALy in the foreign Relations

Departent, who visitec

her to clear up some contusion concernia Sutherilamla

arrangements to lovosibirsk kademgorodok. Moskalev seid that a

colleague From the Foreign Relations Section would visit sutherland at 5:30 pol

the loth.

A Russian acout 35 years of age with thick black hair, whose

name

Sutherland could not recall, presented himself at Sutherland's room in

the Academy of Sciences Hotel.

He said he was a "linguist" rather than a

scientist, and, after a few preliminaries asked whether Sutherland had any

"non-scientific books" with him. As it happened, Sutherland kad a few

presentation paper backs which he had picked up at the cultural section

and a couple of unread US newsmagazines. The Pussian asked if he might have

then, and was quite insistent about it.

Sutherland gavs him the books,

thinking he could get more at the Embassy. The Russian asked 21s0 if he

might have the newsmagazines Sutherland protested that he had not read

them yet, whereupon the Russian expressed the hope that he sould have read

them before he caught the plane that night and could give them to him.

"Is this all the books you have?" asked the Pussian. Sutherland assured

him it was.

Sutherland, already suspicious, was then quite surprised when the Fussian

asked if he could do him a small favor.

"Today is my mother-in-law's

birthday; I have to buy a gift for her, but there is nothing suitable in

the ordinary shops. I am sure I could find something in one of the dollar

stores. If you went with he you could buy it and I would reimburse you."

Group 3

FORM

SECRET

FOR DEPT. USE ONLY

4-02

DS-323

Din

"Drafted by:

Contents and Classificar

SCI :WNHarben/oln 8/24/71

by

ECON : WNHarben

Clearances:

ponsivia fit, draft) 41

HH 54046 DooId: 32392461 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

MoscO: A-968

Page 2

Sutherland rapiled that he was sire that he had read in some briefirg

material for the trip that this would be illegal. The Russian assured him

It was not, since he had received many gifts from Americans which had been

purchased in the dollar stores.

Sutherland, still dubious, said that he

would like to check this with the Embassy first.

The Russian, chagrined,

said that there was no point in doing that. The Embassy would say no. Fe

then dropped the subject and offered to take Sutherland on a tour of the

city, but sutherland was dead tired and pleaded that he had to geù some

rest

before catching the plane.

The Russian became quite insistert, and it

was with some difficulty that Susherland was finally able to convince him

that he did not want a last-minute tour of the city.

"I got the impression that he was trying to get me out of my room for some

reason," explained Sutherlard to the Science Officer. He related that in

any case what he had mainly wanted to see someone in the Embassy about was

a request from a former exchange scholar that he deliver a book ard some

records to friends of the latter in

Novosibirsk. 3y sheer chance, said

Sutherland, he had rented his house to a fellow who had returned from a

sojourn in Axadengorodok in 1970, He had never actually met him, Dui by

correspondence his tenant had asked him to undertake

this small connission.

the Russian

"After / had leît," said Suüherland, "Ithought I had better come dova to

the Embassy, so I went down ard walked up to a taxicab which was parked au

the taxi stand in front of the notel. I got in and asked to go jo the

American Embassy.. The felle rajused. I got out and flagged down a cao

which was passing. I had just told the driver I wanted to go to the American

imbassy when the first cab drives got out of his car and came over and said

something to the second one in Russian. The second one then also refused.

I flagged down a third cab and exactly the same thing happened.. I was pretty

angry by this time and flagged down a fourth. I simply got in and said

'American Embassy'. The first cab driver was trying to speak to the driver,

but I pushed him on the shoulder and told him to get going auickly.

Fortunately, the driver ignored the first cab driver and drove off, leaving

him standing in the street. Otherwise, I don't know whether I would ever

have got here."

The Science Officer asked who Sucherland's tenant in the U.S. was and what

were the gifts for the Soviet citizens.

Sutherland replied that the tenant

was Stephen Salomon, and the gifts were:

1,

A Hebrew grammar for Yakov Simonovich GRINDERG

2.

Phonograph faggeds jus Viktor Aleksandrovich BOGATYREV, Svetlana

KRAVCHENKO,

BOBILEV, and Tura LOBURElS

Sutherland had brought these to the Embassy and leit them.

The Science Officer advised Di. Sutherland that it would be extrerely unwise

for him to give these items o üne intended recipients, since Salcmos had

SECRET

HH 54046 DocId: 32392461

Doct: 32352A6

14

---

## Page 15

MOSCOT A-5ó9

Page 3

51911)

go divine it i tea ned en anoes the of the veicer

asked if there were any way in which the KGB night have become aware of

his connection with Salonon. Has his baggage beer left in the room alone?

Sutherland replied that Salomon had written him that he would write the

intended recipients that Sutherland would come bearing gifts for then.

Each package was also neatly addressed. He saw no evidence of taupering

with his baggage, which had been delivered quite quickly from the plane..

The Science Officer told Sutherland that the KGB had probably just intercepted

the letters ard the mysterious behavior of his visitor was probably designed

to lure him away from his baggage to permit inspection. The authorities

would normally inspect the baggage of a person on their alert list at the

airport, but sutherland had arrivala day earlier than expected arc had

evidently received only perfunciory attention. Sutherland was acvicea

not to contact the irdividuals concerned, who were probably in encugh

trouble as it was, and in questioned about the gifis to say that he rad

forgotten to bring them and offer to send them later when he returned, or

some such vague reply. He was iso told to be alert to any autempt to

compromise him while in the USSE.

Comment:

result of the naivete of Mr. Salemon (all too common anong exchange

scientists).: It is indeed discouraging that even a visitor libel ed by

name as a "secreù agent" of tre "imperialists" in the Soviet press could

still imagine that he could freely communicate with "friends" in ühe Soviet

Union!

BEAM

•JB

SE

RE

NH 54046 DecId:32392461: Page 15

---

## Page 16

VRIGIN/ACTION:"

627 - 4

RS/R

REP

EUR

FE.

NE

INP

6

90

AGR

COM

ARMY.

USIA

NS.

3

C184

110

SUGGESTED DISTRIBUTION

POST ROUTING

Action

Info.

nitials

IMENT UF STATE

AIRGRA

Original:to.be

Docentralized Filos.

6002376

SCI 6-1.

UNCLASS IF IED

FILE DESIGNATION

A-4168

INDICA

NO.

TO

Amambassy MOSCOW

MAr 12211-20 AM 73

E. 0.

11652: N/A

TAGS

TEN UR Moghissi, Arisa)r Moskaley,

Uri1 I)

FROM

Department of State

DATE:

SUBJECT

Invitation to Soviet ScientirE to Participate sn

U.Sa Sympos tum

REF

Dr. Arts Alan Moghisal of Enviromental Protection Agency

National Envirormental Research Center in Las Vegas, Nevada

wishes to confirm the Invitation to Disturig Ivanovich Moskalev

of the Institute of Biophysics of the Soviet Ministry of

Health to participate in the Noble Cases Symposiun in Las Vegas

September 24-28. Moghisst aska that if Dr. Moskalev accepts

the invitation he should make his own travel arrangements.

DI. Moghissi will write directly. to Dr. Moskalev about

final arrangements later..

PArasks. that. the 2 Embassy. convey.Moghiss1'snesgage.to.

Dr. Moskalev as the latter has not replied to recent

communications.

PORTER, ACTING

TO:

—MB,

DEM

POL

ECON

CONS

AID

Usis

FILE

Action

Token:

Date:

initiola:

Bratted by:

BRA/ AI/WEMA

wfield

Cigarances:

FORM

10-64DS-323

NW 540466 DocT 32392161 Page 16

UNCLASS IF IED

Draiting D

ato:

5-7-73

hone No.:

x50560

COP UPLO-PER.

Ma 13.

53 PN *73

USSR DIVISION/CRS

For

1 UsE Only

Out

SCI/EN/GKulick/

sov/Rchristiansenly fee

139

---

## Page 17

6002547

ORIGIN/ACTION

VO-I

ARR

NEA

SCI

4

AGR

EUR

FE

INR

5

10

FRO

A1O

SY GIPP

COM

LAB

TAR

XMS

AIR

0SD

CIA

16

USIA

NSA

16T

DEPARIMENT OF STATE

AIRGRAM

V.O

1-331

UNCIASSIFTED

FOR RH USE ONLY

ATP. PRIORITY

HANDLING INDICATOR

TO

Depa-thent of State 1953 SEF 13

AN 8.40

ANALYSIS & DISTRIBUTION

BRANCH

FROM

SUBJECT:

Amembassy Moscow

VISAS: Nonimmigrants IVAnOV, Y• I. et al

DATE::

September 20g

REF

SPECIAL EXCHANGE

VISES DONKEY BED OCTOBER 5, STAY SEVEN DAYS

International IAns Symposiun on biological effect neutron radiation

effects:

IVMOV, Viktor Ivanovich, Lodennoye pole, 28 August 1928, physicist,

engineers

MOSKATY, Yurty Ivanovich, Igunovo, 23 July 1920, radiobiologist, 400 35+7

OrE Ps. CHIPMUNK:

Fon the Ambassador:

San

Thomas A.

Fain

Second Secretary of Embassy

Diatred by:

GlEBRACES:

L

FORMDS - 323

4-82

CONS: REiTK/ NOW

culte

UNCIASSIFIED

FORG

• USE ONLY

DONe

Thrain

Contenta and Carolication Approved by:

10

51046

DOCId:32392461 Page: 17

---

## Page 18

INCORING TELEGRAM Department of Siste

6002545

2-5100

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

Control:

Rec'd:

RF

21910

September 28

10:39

aem.

1963

35

Action

AEC

Info

EUR

IO

SCI

USIA

INR

CIA

NSA

SCA

VO

NSF

RMR

FROM: Vienna

TO:

Secretary of State

NO:

782, September 28, 3 p-m.

ACTION DEPARIMENT 782, INFORMATION MOSCOW 29

IAEA

Reference: Department A-112; DEPTEL 1001

OSi/NSN

2-RE

2-B€

1012

GiR

КВІД

051

- Yel. Moskalev with present survey paper at Brookhaven Sympositn

Date and place birth not ayallable Vienna.

RIDDLEBERGER

SYT-19

2+A

F1/515

2 CA/0.

SR

LIMITED QEFICIAL ISE

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

= PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

22

HH 54046 DocId:32392461

Page 18

---

## Page 19

Case 41357

Fotúce of Intelligence Potontiel

60025471

Data 13 Septenter 1963

1. The Sampastum on Biological Erfects of Neutran Irrad1-

stions, sponsored bY the Internstionel Atonle Inerzy Agency

islard,

Ton foliot up to the grepostum on leutron

The Syngoalun

Her fork fon 7-l1 October Ipatection, Dostmetry

and Standardization, Farvell, England, 10-14. December 1962. Ibe

Syu ssius progran Includes sessions on coatsetty, Proton, Panel on

No: hysical Considerations in feutron Experimentation, Cellular and

Genitie Effects, Fathology, and Relativo Biological Eltectiveness.

2.

ind cated:

The following Sariete are scheduled to present papers es

DOEREASOVA,

SargrOVA, I. I.,

ILE,

Moscow "Production and forestigation of Dose Flelds

for Irradiatica of Experimental Aninals with Protons

Of Elga Baergy"

Si/fieutzons behind Resctor Shielding"

I. (HOSKALIN'S vile).

eutrous arid rotons of ligh saerey

An adaitional soviet scientist, some not given, 1s to

present a pager on bealth and safety espects

of the ure of neutrona.

3, CD/00 vill have s, number of cleared sources in stter-

Fequirements classified through SECKET Ere tarlted ard

Bolla be recested ia this division by 30 Septenber 1963 19 they are

are to be utilized for brieting purposes.

САППІДВПРА

GROUP 1

Excluded Fron Autostic

Dowagesding and Declessification

HH 54046

DocId: 32392461

Page 19

---

## Page 20

SANG TELEGRAM

Action

Inío

BUR

XER

NSA

SCA

FBI

Department of state

26: 9*47

25100

49_LIVITED OFFICIAL USE

CONTROL:

2714

RECD :

OCTOBER 5, 1955, 3:50PM

TROM:

• MOSCOW

TO:

SECRETARY OF STATE

HOPR

COpo

1115, OCTOBER 3, 19632 5PM:

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

SPLEY

DEPTEL 1032

352

VISAS HORSE

IVANOV

SK-$11º

AND YO I. MOSKALEV (2 OLIENS) B-1 NEW YORK

CEN

16522-5-911

ICP

Zoosg

KOHLER

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COP! IS

- PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

HH 54046

DooId:32392461

Page 20

---

## Page 21

I. CORANG TELEGRAM

Elle

-SID>

Department of State

=1/9

10002547

43

Action

AEC

33

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

Control:

22050

Roc'd:

September

1963

2:30 р.ш.

Info

EUR

SCI

FROM: Moscow

TO:

Secretary of State

NO:

1057, September 28, 2 p.m.

CU

USIA

INR

"CIA?

NSA

• SCA

ACTION DEPARIMENT 1057; INFORMATION VIENNA 16

PASS AEC

Reference:

Department telegram 1003, sent Vienna 1001

630196%

NSF

State Conmittee officials advised that V. I. Ivanov

and

BMR

0015 It Moskaley will attend IAEA symposium at Brookhaven

October 7911.

Visa applications sent Department airgram

331,

September 10. Committee unaware participation M. Zelchinsky

and no visa application received by Embassy, Committee promises

arrival information next week.

Fourth set AEC technical documents delivered and officials

state Soviet documents en route.

All copies AEC trip report

delivered sither directly, through Committee; or through other

appropriate offices.

STOESSEL

LM

PAEA. Neubion radiation

Bio/odical effects of Sepp

2 Telegrams

on, ripton, hit, sly,

sitached

BoTh:

d come

7-11 Och 63

backfile

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

• PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

20

HH 54046 DocId:32392461 Page 21

---

## Page 22

С.t.t..ttr.

TESKALET,

JURI

Source: Coilested fren files,

Ezbassy,

NOZ FOR RELEASE IN THIS FORM TO NON-C)

• 1zy 1970

: QUESTERS

"FIDENTIAL

Ritations

aust angelie

/ lordnadze, V. P.

Chairsan, Organizing Ccanittee, Conference on Cloud Physies and leather lodification, Transcaucasian Rescarch liydra

netec-logical insticute, "150 Plekharon sonue", Toilial, OSSP.

Liltion, Alelsey Vasil'yevich.

Author of several books rhich contain "solutionu to the ilgortant difforestsal equations which arise in &

riald of coupied flows."

Head of GillTsvetret, lias to neve delivered a paper it the liorid Sypostum on Lead and 2in0 sponsored bu the AlE Alord: tith

Ers, 5. H. Pakhonova and 1, 5. Rotatin, but filled to reply to correspondence even when hanu delivered by druti sci ettache.

IN ARE CA C9.

Later he expirined he was on a long trip.

¡ahölion; A. 1. (MIkhaylou?), Frofessne. Parictor, VINTI (scl li tech jifo).

Lestevitinor, Foris Serrezerich. Ferolm Belations Deurtent, lindstry of Helth USid. Grod inelist, Concred with exchanges.

icestore, hul literpreter, lindstry of Health, hirut 47, strong foatures, largo aeguilne nose, ange dant eyes, red hair (prob. dyed).

ro: deerse in sath in her youth. las dautter 20 and son Abcul R. Coor! Sullsh, sore French, no Gerun: dies curlous about the present all-

varion of illilureva, whe shr desersbed as "on tate' ligert sirl, but aclizophrende, I billeve." CS Amenson extraction til never lised there

spini any tears in Toilisi. Hushand dead, lives or the soloviga seenhere south of this Babassy. Her boy 1s a ponsiath aludori. Contact

DaTa HodestovA paped lia thornughty for bio dila on tiriself, Said hual deni asly Glogis, conflictine rathi story of arother interpreter

•to sado indesi ova's husbrora dend a gear and a hais. Apa 20.

ashame, Yurts Toulfordeh, Prolbiy lead os enorder seetlor, forden indati ns anjurtare, deniay ne saigena.

Sore indiestion that le tried

vir 1u areats enopen and do jortl, to int dual ratloral meen Drivlet lilse of liß relatlut en main in 1553.

Fossihiy KAR.

HH 54046 DocId:32392461

Page 22

---

## Page 23

ORIGIN/ACTION

ETR.6

REP

"MOSKALEV

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

G

RAM

6002547

SCI6-1ÜSSR

NEA

SCI

AGR

INT

TR

•RUS

AM

AF

FOR RA USE ONLY

EUR

FE

A-969

HANDLING INDICATOR

TO

FBO

AID

Department of state SCELED

???"

SEP 1

827 Anety

SEP. |

469809697

COM

FRB

LAB

TAR

FROM

Anembassy

MOSCOW

SUBJECT: A Murky Business/ Involving Exchange Scientist

Dr. Patrick J. Sucherland

PATE: August 2u, 1971

XME

AIR

5

REF

16

10

on dout 16, on the Bi, a i tet cac to the Be try to set thing

on the part of certain officials of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR

toward him.

COPYFLO-PBR

He arrived

on August 15 and contacted Turiy MOSKALEV in the Foreign Relationa

Department, who visitea has to clear up sane confusion concernias sutherlande

travel

arrangements to Novosibirsk (Akademgozodok)s Moskaley said that a

colleague from the Foreign Relations Section would visit Sutherland at 5330 p.

16th.

A Pussian dout 35 years of age with thick black hair, whose

name Sutherland could not recall, presented himself at Sutherland's room in

the Academy of Sciences Hoiel.

He said he was a "linguist" rather than a

scientist,

and, after a few preliminaries asked whether Sutherland had any

"non-scientific books" with him.

As it happened,

Suthezland had a few

presentation paper backs which he had picked up at the cultural section

and a couple of unread US newsmagazines.

The Fussian asked if he might have

them, and was quite insistent about it.

Sutherland gave him the books,

thinking he could get more at the Embassy. The fussian asked also if he

might have the newmagazines. Sutherland protested that he had not read

them yet, whereupon the Russian expressed the hope that he would have read

them before he caught the plane that night and could give then to him.

"Is this all the books you nave?" asked the Russian. .

Sutherland assured

him it was.

Sutherland, already suspicious, was then quite surprised when the Fussian

asked if he

could do him a small favor.

"Today is my mother-in-las's

birthday; I have to buy a gift for her, but there is nothing suitable in

the ordinary shops.

I am sure I could find something in one

of the dollar

stores. If you went witk he you could buy it and I would ruinburse you."

Group 3

FOR DEPT. USE ONLY

DOur

FORM DS-323

4-82

Drafted by:

SCI :WNHarben/oIn 8/24/71;

Ciearances:

ECON: WHar ben og

ECON: WHarben

ADCM: TRBuch dhan

- by:

NH

54046

DocId:32392461

Page

23

---

## Page 24

SECRET

MoscOr A-969

Page 2

Sutherland raplied that he was sire that he had read in some briefing

material for the trip trat tais would be illegal.

The Russian assured him

it was not, since he had received many gifts from Americans which had beer

purchased in the dollar stores.

Sutherland, still dubious, said that he

would like to check this with the Embassy first.

The

Russian,

said that there was no point in doing that.

The Embassy would

she in die

say no.

then dropped the subject and offered to take Sutherland on a tour of tine

city, but Sutherland was dead tired and pleaded that he had to get some

rest before catching the plane.

The Russian became quite insistert, and it

was with some difficulty that Sutherland was finally able to convince him

that he did not want a last-minute tour of the city.

"I got the impression that he was trying to get me out of my room for sore

reason," explained Sutherlard to the Science Officer.

He related that in

any case what he had mainly wanted to see someone in the Embassy about was

a request from a former excharge scholar that he deliver a book ard some

records to friends of the latter in Novosibirsk. 3y sheer chance, said

sutherland, he had rented his house to a fellow who had returnad frot a

Akasengorodok in 1970,

He had never actually met him, bui by

correspondence his tenant had asked him to undertake this small commission.

"After

haa leît," said Sutherland, "Ithought I had better cone down to

the Embassy, so I went down and talked up to a taxicab which was paried at

the taxi stand in front of thü notel. I got in and asked to go io the

American Embassy.

The fellow racused. I got out and flagged down a cao

which was passing.

I had jusü told the driver I wanted to go to the American

Embassy when the first cab driver got out of his car and came over ard said

something to the second one in russian.

second one then also refused.

I flagged down a third cab and exactly the same thing happened.

I was pretty

angry by this time and flagged down a fourth.

got in and sald

'American Erbassy'. The first cab driver was trying to speak to the driver,

but I pushed him on the shoulder and told him to get going quickly.

Fortunately, the driver ignored the first cab driver and drove ofs, leaving

him standing in the street. Otherwise, I don't know whether I would ever

have got here."

The Science Officer asked who Sutherland's tenant in the U.S. was and what

were the gifts for the Soviet citizens.

Sutherland replied that the tenarit

was Stephen Salomon, and the §itus were:

1.

A Hebrew grammar for Yakor Simonovich GRINEERG

2.

nonograph baggas for vitor Aleksandrovich BoGATTREy, Sverla

(RAVCHENKO,/BOBILEV, and Yura LOBURET

Sutherland had brought trese to the Embassy and leit them.

The Science

Officer advised Di. Sutherland that it would be extrerely unwise

for him to give these items to ühe intended recipients, since Salcnor had

SECRET

HH 54016

DocId: 32392461 Page 24

---

## Page 25

SECRET

MOSCow A-5Ó9

figured as the villai i

A napired guy expose in May of this yead 9?

-so Involves

Coldelor of the Embassy.

The Science Officer

asked if there were any way in which the KGB might have become awere oi

his connectior. with Salomon. Fad his baggage beer left in the roum alone?

Sutherland replied that Salomon rad written him that he would write the

intended recipients that Sutheriand would come bearing gifts for then.

Each package was also neatly adöressed.

He saw no evidence of tapering

with his baggage, which had been delivered quite quickly fron the plane.

The Science Officer told Sutherland that the KGB had probably just intercepted

the letters ard the mysterious behavior of his visitor was probabiy designed

to lure him aray from his baggage to permit inspection.

The authorities

would normally inspect the baggage of a person on their alert list at the

airport, but sutherland had arrivada day earlier than expected arc. had

evidently received only perfusciory attention. Sutherland was acvised

not to contact the irdiv duais concerned, who were probably in encugh

trouble as it was, and in quectioned about the gifis to say that re taà

forgotten to bring them and offer to send them later when he returned, or

some such vague reply.

He was ¿iso told to be alert to any autempt to

compromise him while in the UsS?.

Come possible test ere beatele out pines a

result of the naivete of Mr. Salimon (all too coron among exchange

scientists). It is indeed cisco raging that even a visitor libel ed by

name as a "secret agent" of tre "imperialists" in the Soviet press couà

still imagine that he could freely communicate with "friends"' in üne Soviet

Union!

PEAN

JB

SECRET

HH 54046

DocId: 32392461

Page 25

---

## Page 26

ORIGIN/ACTION

RS/R

EPA - 4

REP

EUR

-5

INA

AID

FRE

LAB

TAR

AIP.

ARMY

NATT

USTA

NSA.

3

170

cu

AMB

SUGGESTED

DISTRIBUTION

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

ARGRAM

3: Original to be Filed in

Decontrolized Filos.

160025730

SCI: 6-1:

:US5K

UNCLASS IF IED

FILE DESIGNATION

: A-4168

TO

AmEmbassy MOSCOW

AN 12 11 20 AK 73

E. 011652: N/A

TEN UR Moghisst, Artsa) Moskalev, Urts L)

FROM

Department

of. State

SUBJECTE Tavitation to Soviet Scientist to Participate n

1264

REF

U.S. Sympos ium

Dr. Aris Alan Moghisal of Enviromental Protection Agency's

National Enviromental Research Center in Las Vegas, Nevada

wishes to confirm the invitation to DI. Urly Ivanovich Moskaley

of the Institute of Biophysics of the Soviet Ministry of

Health to participate in the Noble Gases Symposium In Las Vegas

September 24-28. Moghissi aske that if Dr. Moskalev accepts

the invitation he should make his own travel arrangements.

DI. Moghissi will write directly to Dr. Moskalev about

final arrangements later.

EPA asks that the Embassy convey Moghissi's message to

Dr. Moskalev as the latter has.not replied to recent

communications.

PORTER, ACTING

POST BQUTING

TO:

ACTION

Info.:

=M3!

1nITI035

6457

ECON

490.

CONS

Cat.

AID

USiS

128TG

63007

2T71

FILE

Action Taken:

Dare:

intrials;

"Gratred by:

Clearances:

FORM

10-6405-323

UNCLASS IF IEN

ratting Dato

5÷7-7.

Phone No.:

x50560

COPVELO-PEA

Uns Only

17 Our

USSR DIVISION/ CRS

MAr 152 3 53PH *73

SCI/EN/GKulick/,

SoV/RChristiansenly free

54046

DocId: 32392461

Page 26

---

## Page 27

6002547

ORIGIN/ACTION

VO-1

AMRI

REP

AF

MEA

ScI

4

AGA

INT

TR

FE

5

CU

INA

5

10

FRO

AlO

JYI

TIPM

L

COM

LAB

TAR

AIR

ARMY

080

CIA

16

USIA

MAVY

NBA

DEPARIMENT OF STATE

AIRGRAM

V. O

FOR RM USE ÓNLY

- 1-33.

UNCLASEIFEED

LIP. PRIORITY

HANDLINO INDICATOR

TO

Department of State

1963 SEF 13 A1 8.40

RELAN

ANALYSIS & DISTRIBUTION

BRANCH

FROM

SUBJECT:

Amembassy Moscow

VISAS: Nonimmigrants IVanOV, V. I. et al

DATE: Septenher 10,

REF

7

SPECIAL EXCHANCE

VISES DONKEY ETD OCTOBER 5, STAY SEVEN DAYS

International IAnt Symposium on biological effect neutron radiation

effects:

IVMOV, Viktor Ivanovich, Lodeynoye pole, 2& August 1928, physicist,

engineer;

LOSAL, Yuriy Ivanovich, Isunovo, 23 July 1920, radiobiologist, 600 2577

Off Ps. CHIPMUNK:

For the Ambassador:

1 Q. san

Thomas A. Fain

Second Secretary of Embassy

Drafted by?

Chessacey

L

FORMDS- 323

Cult

UNCLASSIFIED

FOR DEFT. USE ONLY

JOur

TArain

ogreate and clanican Approve t

10

HH

$4046 DocId: 32392161 Page 27

---

