# docid-32339793

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90152-10012

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-261797-15

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#: NW 45979 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/06/1974

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

ANTONIO VECIANA

ZERO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

HT 45979

DocId: 32339793

Page 1

---

## Page 2

# I-JD (1104-5-12-091

CONFIBENTIAL

F B!

Date:

MAY

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

AND FIELD OFFICES

ADVISED BY ROS

6 197фA12

SLIP (5) OT

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

(Type in plaintext or code).

A IRMA IL

(Priority)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: SAC, MIAMI

"ZERO", aka.

CerTo

(An Organization)

IS - CULA

EXTORTION;

FRENTE LIBERACION

NA CIONALISTA CUBANO

(FLNC)

IS - CUBA

plaiece on

105-18396T (Ensiful Venes)

105-64569 leanest

(P)

safelt 8807-261887

) Bride 060 1565%1

105.261797-2

Re Miami tel 4/26/74 to Bureau, under above

•1520

104

caption.

The substance of retel is being set forth

hereinafter so. that copies of same can be placed in

Bufiles 134-10154, relating to MM 1550-KS and

134-17759, on AN 1337-S:

Re Miami tel to Bureau,

4/26/74 in "Zero"

case reflecting interview of TOMAS

GARCIAY FUSTE,

Program

Director, Miami Radio Station WAB;

02 4/22/71.

Bureala

1042352520(ZNC)

14270337-8

COPY

1 - 134-1105-)

Miami(I-

- 134-1539)

'(1 - 134-553)

192812) (RA COE30 105-26/791-15

(10)

No 1826

Exempt ..rom GS. Category 2

1974

DATE DE DE

CLASSIFICATION: Indefinte

3N /26/84 * 241,326

2luks

T803/LDD 115261-92

JFK TASK PASCA:

Special Agent in Charge

. M

Per

U.S.Government PrInting Offlce: 1972-455-574

NW 45979 DocId: 32339793

Page 2

---

## Page 3

IAL

MM 105-21892

Interviev was conducted by SAS ROBERT JAMES DWYER and.

GEORGE E. DAVIS, J., after information was received

from Cuban exile leader MANUEL ARTI'I that FUSTE had

received a

"Zero" extortion letter and wanted to furnish

it to FBI.

It is noted "Zero" has claimed credit for

April 12, 1974, assassination of JOSE ELIAS DE LA

TORRIENTE, Cuban exile leader,

at his Coral Gables residence.

After obtaining "Zero" letter and details from

FUSTE, Agents then questioned him concerning Frente de

Liberacion Nacional de Cuba (Cuban exile terrorist organi-

zation), which claims credit for a series of

recent bombings.

Investigation

has reflected that a number of FLNC members

visit YAB daily, use facilities of WAB,

and broadcast

propaganda over WAB. FUSTE orally acknowledged this

fact, but denied responsibility.

He was informed that

FLNC

claims credit for acts which are in violation of

U. S

* laws,

and FLNC is presently subject of a Federal

Grand Jury

investigation, Miami.

On 4/24/74, MM 1337-S advised on 4/22/74, LEOPOLDO

JUSTO,

General Manager, WAB, overheard conversation at

WFAB between FUSTE and Miami City Commissioner and vice

Mayor MANOLOYREBOSO, who called upon FUSTE shortly after

departure of

REBOSO reportedly told FUSTE that

next time sA difit talked to rUST REBOSO would telephone

his friend, Congressman DANTE FASCELL, and make complaint

against DAVIS:

MM 1337-S said that JUSTO is deeply upset about

FLNC visits to WAB and is opposed to FUSTE'S policies and

associations with regard to such hostile elements.

On 4/24/74, JUSTO confirmed that. FLNC members

frequent WFAB and said he is willing to testify and would

have no objections to any other employees of WAB being

2.

NW 45979 DooId:32339793 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CORINNA

MM 105-22094

regarding FLNC activities:

a power struggle with FUSTE, who has allowed WAB to

be used for political

purposes by FLNC and other Cuban

exile groups contrary to fcC regulations dude relatec

that his opposition to FUSTE came to a head when FUSTT fired,

OSCARYANCULO, severat days prescously,

:, WhAB news reporte

against orders of

RICHARD FATON, owner and President of United Broadcasting

corp..

Washington, Do

Co, who strongly supports ANGULO.

On morning 4/26/74, MN 1337-S advised that as

that OSCAR ANGULO be rehired

Immediately, FUSTE is resigning from WrAB and has declared

that he will immediately hold a press conference and

announce that his resignation results from pressure applied

by the U

S. Government.

SAS DAVIS and DWYER during the separate interviews

of FUSTE and JUSTO explicitly informed each that the FBI

was not investigating WEAB, and that the FBI interest in

making this inquiry related only to the "Zero" extortion

letters and the activities of the FLNC terrorists.

On 4/30/74, MM 1337-S advised that FUSTE returned

to his position as Program Director at WAB on the morning

of 4/30/74, despite the fact that he had resigned on

4/29/740

On both occasions, FUSTE was accompanied by

Miami City Commissioner MANOLO REBOSO. MM 1337-S subsequently

learned that

t his own status had become in doubt but he

expected to receive some definite word from Mr. EATON.

speculated that REBOSO and FUSTE had succeeded in placing

pressure upon Mr. EATON to retain FUSTE, as a FCC hearing

is pending on WAB in the near future.

3:00 p.m. on 4/30/74, MM 1337-S advised that

JOSEJANTONIO ARIAS, JR., an employee of YAB, told him on

RAdic

3.

NH 45979 DooId:32339793

Page 4

---

## Page 5

CUAMDENTIAL

MM 105-22094

a confidential basis that he had overheard a conversation

that morning between

FUSTE and MANOLO REBOSO. He heard

REBOSO state, 'Don't forget the information I received

from LESNICK that ANGULO planned to work for DEA and may

now be working for DEA."

On the morning of 5/1/74, MM 1337-S advised

that he still does not know what is his present status, and

he has not returned to the

station.

Information has been previously submitted to the

Bureau in the case entitled, "MAX LESNICK, aka., IS - CUBA,"

reflecting that in the spring of 1973, MAX LESNICK, publisher

of Spanish language publication Replica, came to this office

on two separate occasions to make allegations against

RICARDO JORALES JAVARRETE, claiming that MORALES was engaged

in illegal activities under the protection of the FBI.

It is to be recalled that MORALES was a key witness in

the 1968 prosecution in federal court of ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA

and eight co-defendants, all of whom were convicted on

charges relating to ship bombings, extortion, and conspiracy.

friend of LESNICK and a writer for his publication.

Investigation has reflected that since BOSCH

was released on parole on 12/15/72, he has become an almost

daily visitor to LESNICK's office at Replica, and one of

BOSCH's co-defendants, JORGE GUTIERREZ, is employed by

LESNICK®

Also, shortly after LESNICK's first visit to

this office, MANOLO REBOSO, Miami City Commissioner, who

has subsequently become a vice Mayor of Miami, came to

this office to make similar complaints against MORALES.

REBOSO disclosed that he himself had recommended that

LESNICK complain to the FBI.

REBOSO confided to sA DAVIS

on the occasion of his first visit that his own former

Of MORALES,

always contacted REBOSO

immediately after any contact with MORALES to inform

REBOSO concerning her relations with MCRALES. REBOSO

4

NW 45979 DooId: 32339793

Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 105-22094

CORISITIAL

also stated that he planned to make complaints to congress

Gen

in Washington,

It later came to the

attention of this office that he did contact one or

more lav enforcement officials in Miami to make similar

complaints against MORALEs, alleging MORALES waS

receiving protection. from both the Bl and certain

officers of the Miami PD and the Dade County SO.

On 5/25/73, an attempt was made by two

men to assassinate MORALES.

This occurred at 9:00 p.m.

-after MORALES had telephoned PILAR at 8:00 p.m.

for:"

a dinner

date, telling her that he would pick her up

at 9:00

He notified no one else of his plans.

The assassination attempt, which resulted in minor

injuries to MORALES, was made sharply at 9:00 D.M.

as he arrived at the residence of pILAR.

Shortly thereafter, REBOSO came to the Miami

Office to lodge another complaint against MORALES.

that time, he denied any connection with the assassina-

tion attempt against MORALES, but declined to sign a

Waiver of Rights.

on 3/11/74, at about 11:30 p.m., shortly

after leaving his place of employment,

an unidentified

man in an automobile fired tro shots at MM 1337-s, who

confidentialty too beCA MM 1337-5 received information

IBORRA, an employee of Replica,

that the plan to assassinate iM 1337-S had been drawn up

In LESNICK's office and had been financed by LESNICK. Fla

The identity of the would-be assassin is unknown. At

that time, MM 1337-S conjectured that LESNICK may have

found out

that it 1337-S had filed an application for

employment by the dEA.

This speculation is based upon

the fact that an individual known to be a friend of LESNICK

had been interviewed by DEA concerning MM 1337-S' applica-

tion.

On 3/20/74,

a bomb exploded at about 2:00 a.m.

at 2344S. W. 16th Street, Miami, and two members of the

FLNC were seriously wounded as they were preparing a

package bomo which went off in their hands..

SA DAVIS

went to the scene of the bombing at approximately 2:30

5.

CON

TAL

NH 45979 DooId:32339793

Page 6

---

## Page 7

MM 105-22094

TAL

denounced BOSCH on the grounds that BOSCH was engaged

in criminal activities.

BOSCH also denounced TORRIENTE.

During the investigation of the murder of

TORRIENTE, the police found a small

scrap of paper,

presumably left by the assassin on the porch of

TORRIENTE's home.

This scrap of paper reflected

TORRIENTE'S initials, bore a large

"zero," and

underneath were the numbers "1 & LOOH."

Subsequent

to that, some of the news media

have received a

Spanish-language letter from "Zero," claiming credit

for the assassination of TORRIENTE.

In this connection,

it is interesting

to note that the

"Zero" organization

has surfaced shortly after "Accion Cubana" has submerged

fron view. Accion Cubana, which claims credit for

series of package bombings, was reportedly under the

leadersbip of ORLANDO BOSCH.

RICARDO, furnished

to assassinate MORALES. ROLANDO MORALES' source has

subsequently informed MORALES that the triggerman

hired by LESNICK iS ROGER REDONDO, Cuban exile who

mas allegedly associated with LESNICK and ELOY GUTIERREZ.

MENOYO in the Second Front of the Escambray, a

number

years ago.

On 4/13/74, MM 1337-S reported that LESNICK

invited him to accompany him to dinner at a restaurant

in Hialeah.

LESNICK was accompanied by two individuals,

one of whom he addressed as ROGER..

ROGER and the other

unidentified individual got in the back seat of the car,

and MM 1337-S noticed that 'one man had a gun in his belt.

After arriving at the restaurant, LESNICK and MN 1337-S

sat at a separate table, during which time LESNICK told

MM 1337-S that he should not believe any reports that

LESNICK as responsible for the attempted assassination

of MM 1337-S.

LESNICK also made a point several times to

impress MM 1337-S that ANTONIO VECIANA is LESNICK's very

best friend.

VECIANA was convicted in New York, City

a narcotics

charge about two months ago, and is now

8.

105-261797-15

Page 8

TIAL

NW 45979 DooId: 32339793

Page 7

---

## Page 8

MM 10522094

reportedly out on appeal bond in Miami. A photograph

of ROGER REDONDO has been exhibited to MM 1337-S,

who is almost certain that he is identical to the

man with a gun in his belt who accompanied LESNICK.

MORALES

has also advised that he had

personally observed REDONDO working on construction

at a schoolhouse which is located directly across the

street from the apartment complex where MORALES resides.

He has also ascertained

that REDONDO is carrying a gun.

The assassination plan calls for the shooting of

MORALES by the assassin with a silencer equipped weapon

aS MORALES enters the gate to his apartment complex.

RAUL DIAZ and other officers of the Organized Crime

Unit of the PSD have been advised and are in close

contact with MORALES relative to this threat.

On 4/16/74, ARTURO RODRIGUEZ RIVAS, Cuban

exile residing in

New York City, was assassinated.

There

is speculation in the Cuban community of Miami that the

assassination of RODRIGUEZ and of TORRIENTE are related.

MM 1550-KS and MM 1337-S have advised that RODRIGUEZ

RIVAS was formerly

assoctated with BOSCH,

but left

BOSCH's organization in about 1967 or 1968 to join

the Cuban Power organization of HECTOR CORNILLOT in

the New York. area.

Miami has also received information that BOSCH

was in New York two days prior to the assassination of

RODRIGUEZ, but no specific evidence of this has been

received, and BOSCH's probation officer has advised that

BOSCH did not ask for permission to go to New York City

at that time.

(Miami is attempting to obtain more

information along this line.)

Previous investigation has reflected also that

both LESNICK and REBOSO have unsavory reputations among

respectable Cuban exiles in Miami.

Unverified information

has been received reflecting that

REBOSO, prior to

9.

105-261797-15

page?

TAL

NW 45979 DooId: 32339793

Page 8

---

## Page 9

MM 105-22094

BENDAL

becoming & City Commissioner, was involved in an

abortion racket, that he has been a receiver of

stolen goods, and has been associated with well-known

Cuban hoodlums in the Miami area.

He is also sus

pected by MM 1337-S, MM 1550-KS, and other reliable

informants, as well

as by some police officers, of

being involved in narcotics on a high level in

the

Miami area.

Information has been received that

REBOSO is collecting kick-backs for political favors.

Previous investigation has reflected

also

that MAX LESNICK, who conducted a radio broadcast

from Havana, Cuba, during the early days of FIDEL

CASTRO, always concluded his programs with the statement

"Cuba Si, Yankee No." LESNICK, according to MM 1337-S,

has bragged that he

"owns Miami." He is

accompanied in his travels about the city by armed

bodyguards, according to reliable sources, and he

has been involved in one altercation where he.

allegedly attempted to pull a gun on his victim

during a street scuffle.

He is also suspected by

reliable sources and by various police officers of being

involved in the narcotics racket

on a high level,

On 4/30/74, subpoenas directed to

to appear before a FGJ.

served

by SAS ROBERT JAMES DWYER and GEORGE E.

DAVIS, JR.,

at WAB.

The FGJ was scheduled to hear testimony

relating to the

which resulted in the

injury ofl

and

of the

FLNC,

as they

vere constructing a

As

mentioned above

action members of the FLNC have

JEK" Law 10(a)2

reportedly been visiting WAB almost every day.

On 5/1/74, JUSTO voluntarily came to the

Miami Office and reported that earlier that day, he

had received orders emanating from RICHARD EATON, owner

of WAB, to dismiss ANGULO. FUSTE has retained his

position

as Program Director,

JUSTO said that WAB has a hearing pending

before the FCC based upon a matter which JUSTO inherited

10.

NW 45979 DooId:32339793 Page 9

---

## Page 10

CRIDENTIAL

MM 105-22094

when he became General Manager.

The hearing relates

to an allegation concerning an

advertising accounting

matter.

JUSTO expressed the opinion that EATON had

been compelled at the last moment to support FUSTE

because of this pending hearing. He pointed out that

FUSTE has considerable influence and the support of

REBOSO and REBOSO's political connections.

JUSTO said

that on or about 4/25/74,

he was present during a

conversation involving FUSTE, REBOSO, and himself,

at which time JUSTO was trying to convince FUSTE

to put ANGULO back on his job.

At that time, REBOSO

remarked that he could talk to Congressman FASCELL

at any time and could stop the FBI from "harassing"

WrAB.

JUSTO said that FUSTE suspects that ANGULO nay

o gate that rus.

be working for the FBI and the police.

JUSTO pointed

out that ANGULO's function as a news reporter requires

him to visit the police and other investigative agencies

on almost a daily basis in order to acquire news for

broadcasting.

JUSTO also said that REBOSO spends four

or five hours with FUSTE almost every day.

On the same

day, MM 1337-S expressed the

opinion that FUSTE and REBOSO, through sone form of

pressure bordering on blackmail and extortion, have

convinced Mr. EATON to reverse his position on the

matter of the hiring and firing of ANGULO and FUSTE

The above information is set forth to reflect

what appears to be

an interlocking conspiracy involv

Ing members of several terrorist organizations. It

also appears that these terrorist organizations are

receiving aid and comfort either intentionally or

coincidentally from REBOSO and LESNICK.

Miami is pursuing investigation vigorously

in order to obtain evidence for prosecutable purposes

and to assist the police in any violations of a local

criminal nature involving these

organizations and

individuals.

11.

TAL

NW 45979 DooId:32339793 Page 10

---

## Page 11

MM 105-22094

CONFIDENTIAL

ADDENDUM

CUBA

On 5/3/74, WILFREDO

/NAVARRO,

Cuban

exile who

volunteers information from time to time,

advised that

after FUSTE was dismissed by the FGJ on 5/2/74, without

testifying, but with instructions to return on 5/3/74,

FUSTE immediately went to see REBOSO, who instructed

FUSTE not to tell SA DAVIS anything.

On the morning of 5/3/74, MI. LEOPOLDO JUSTO

telephoned SA DAVIS at the Miami Office and advised

that

today he plans to do 3 things:

Fire JOSE LUIS MASSO (who has been anti-U. S.

and intimate with FLNC members)

2. Rehire OSCAR ANGULO

3. Recommend to the owner that FUSTE be fired.

If the owner refuses to fire FUSTE, JUSTO plans

to resign.

SA DAVIS reminded JUSTO that the FBI is not

concerned with the internal affairs of WAB, but thanked

him for calling.

Airtel classified G

ITAL to protect

MM 1337-S.

SOIFIBENTIAL

74 45979

DooId: 32339793

Page 11

---

