# docid-32289101

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10200-10377

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-165503-1ST NR 18

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG. MX

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/04/1967

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: OBA, ASSOC, PLOT TO BOMB SHIP, MIRR, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

03/16/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC TTY

DocId: 32289101 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 USC 2107/Hote).

'DATE: 11-14-2017

• APPROF

APOCIDS

Medlasz

FIELD OFFICES

5/4/67

CODE

SECRET

DIYI

109-165501

Confident tal

ТУРЕ

URGENT

SENCLASSIFED AND

EXTENDED BY SPRTEL

TO::

SAC, MIAMI

REASON FCA

Mand tin

10l 165503

e911

asca

T.J. Smith

FCIM, II,

"TROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE

BE

DECLASSIFICATIOR

140

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES, INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA,

NSUTRALITY MATTERS.

ON MAY FOUR INSTANT, TUE FOLLOWING CARTEORAM WAS RECEIVED

1 5P8 Mac mac

FROM LEGAT, MEXICO CITY.

Declaschy on: CA8/

5712)

"REFERENCE MEXICO CITY TELEFIONE CALL TO MIAMI MAY FOUR

INSTANT•

INTORMATION THAT FRANK FIORINE, WHO WAS INVOLVED IN PLOT TO

BOMB SIIP AT TAMPICO, MEXICO, IN APRIL, NINETEEN SIXTY-SEVEN,

WAS AT INS PLACE OF WORK ON MAY THREE LAST, FURNISHED TO FERNANDO

GUTIERREZ BARRIOS, DIRICTOR, MEXICAN FEDERAL, SECURITY POLICE,

HE EAS REQUESTED THAT WE ATTEDY TO DETERMINE WHEREABOUTS OF

FELIPE RIVERO DIAZ AND JULIO PESTONIT OF ASOCIACION NACIONALISTA

CUBANA (CUBAN NATIONAZIST ASSOCIATION) BUFILE NINE SEVEN -FOUR

SITP

ONE NINTE TOUR, ON MAY THERE LASTS) IS IS NOTED THEY MERE REPORTED

OCTOBER, ONE NING SIX SIX, TO BE ACQUIRING EXPLOSIVES FOR USE

AGAINST A CUBAN EMBASSY OR SRIP THEZ WARD INVOLVED WITH ONLANDO

Tolson

BOSCH AVILA, HEAD OF MOVILHIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RE CUPARACION

DeLoach

Mohr

Wick

_NEVOLUCIONARIA, WIC WAS ALSO ASSOCIATED

TORINI IN APRIL

•Casper

Callahan -

Conrad.

KC $

Felt

Gale

Rosen -

STIC

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

AND FIRED O

XIATES

ADVISED BYROUTING

TOL MAY 1519679(5) C

HAIL ROU

622

4-102

Cont

$101

VIA TELETYPE

ALL TN

MAYS 1957010*

ENGIPMERED

SECRET

FEATNE

1 8D

ORIGINAL FILED IN

DocId: 32289101

Page 2

---

## Page 3

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot 01 1992 710 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

TONIYRE TO MIANI

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTE

intiat

SECRET

CUTION 42

SPARES INVESZICATION ON AUTO BOMBING INDICATES

OZHONG FOSCIBILITY BOMG WAS THROWN OR BOLIED UNSO SNEASSY

DRIVINAY AND IXPLODED UNDER CAR AND WAS NOT MOUNCED IN LETT

FONDER AS PREVIOUSLY BULLUVED.

MEXICO CITY BELIEVES VIEREABOUAS OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA,

JOSE ANTONIO MULET CONZALEZ AND ALTIEDO C, TUMVIS, VIO MORE

INVOLVED IN FIORINE OPERATION AT TAMPICO, SHOULD ALSO BE

DETERMINED.

€(u)

FOR INZORIATION BUREAU, IXPLOSIVES LATE IN MEXICO BY FZORINI

HAVE BREN RICOVERED BY TEDIRAL AUTNORITIES."

MIAMI HANDLE MIXICO CITY REQUEST AND SUTSIO

₴

NOTE:

On 5/3/67, Legat, Mexico City advised that on that dat€

bomb had exploded ir

the front part of the car of the Cuban

Ambassador to Mexico, while the car was being moved in the

courtyard of the Embassy.

The only persons suffering injuries

were

the driver.of the car and two bystanders in the courtyard.

Mexican police are conducting investigation to identify persons

responsible for the bombing.

They assume it was caused

by

anti-Castro Cuban element.

NR

ENCL

• CK

APPROVED BY.

TYPED BY

LOGGED BY.

042904

configantial SECRET 105-165503-NR 5/4/67

DocId: 32289101

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy, Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992,711

USt

2107 70te).

DÂTE: 11-14-2017

4-3 1nler.

1-27-66)

DECODED

COPY

SECRET

C ARGRAM

%% CABLEGRAM®

L RADIO

DO TELETYPE

l'oisori

DeLoach-_

• Wont

Vick

Capes so

told on

Conrad

Felt

Coln

bullion

1272l

trotta:

Tele. Roon

-Holines

Gandy

StASSIFIED AND

STATE 07

VERY UROSNT : 5-4-67

TO\

DIRECTOR (109-584)

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY NO. 245

EXTENDED PA SPITER RICH M

REAS

FCIRI

DA P

DECLASSES

5/4182+

105 165503

5

ANTI-FIDEL

STRAY ACTIVITIES,

IS-CUBA, NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Classified bySPoin

Classified by

Declassify on: DADA

Declassity on DADR /15/53

RE MEX. CAB MAY 3 LAST RE EXPLOSION OF BOMB

IN AUTO OF CUBEN

AMBASSADOR TO MEXICO THAT DATE:

RE MEXICO CITY TELEPHONE CALE

TO MIAMI MAY 4 INSTANT.

AND FIM

ADVISED EY

SLIP (S) 07

INFORWATION THAT FRANK FIORINI, WHO WAS INVOLVED IN PLOT TO

BOMB SHIP AT TAMPICO, MEXICO, IN APRIL, 1967, WAS AT HIS PLACE

DE MOLK ON LAY I LAST, GURNISHED TO FERNANDO OUTERREZ RARENESS

1/528.000

DIRECTOR, MEXICAN FEDERAL SECURITY POLICE. HE HAS REQUESTED

THAT WE ATTEMPT TO DETERMINE WHEREABOUTS OF FELIPE RIVERO DIAZ

AND JULIO PESTONIT OF ASOCIACION NACIONALISTA CUBANA (CUBAN

ALT INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERDIN

TASSIFIED

C SHOWN

NOTED THEY WERE REPORTED IN OCTOBER, 1966, TO BE ACQUIRING

EXPLOSIVES FOR USE AGAINST A CUBAN EMBASSY OR SHIP. THEY WERE

INVOLVED WITH ORLANDO BOS CH

AS HEAD OF MOVEMENTO INSURREC

not 2762

Classified b

.2040

30

•Exempt fram

GOS Category,

"Indefinato

If the intelligence

de ate be Deal in a to an ernate i to be dice

103-165503 INDIED

APPRCIATE FENCES

VICES

NOT RECORDED VISED BY TOUTINC

128 MAY 10 1067 SLIP(S) 0F

DATE

646-72

the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

I SEODET

DocId: 32289101

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 744

"USC

2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• 4-3 Wiev. 1-27-66)

Volcon

Del.onch 3:

Mohr

• Wick:

Cooper

Validian

DECODE

CoPy

GAIRGRAM

xx CABLEGRAM

RADIO

PAGE TWO

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CHIE

SNO: 245 SECRET

CO TELETYPE

Sultiran

Trotter.

•Tele. Room

Holme's -

Gandy,

CIONAL DE RE CUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA, WHO WAS ALSO ASSOCIATED

WITH FIORING IN APRIL ESPISODE.

((4)

GUTIERREZ STATES INVESTIGATION OF AUTO BOMBING INDICATES

STRONG POSSIBILITY BOMB WAS THROWN OR ROLLED INTO EMBASSY

DRIVEWAY AND EXPLODED UNDER CAR AND WAS NOT MOUNTED IN LEFT

FENDER AS PREVIOUSLY BELIEVED.

(S)

MEXICO CITY BELIEVES WHEREABOUTS OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA:

JOSE ANTONIO MULET: GONZALEZ AND ALFREDO C. FUENTE, WHO WERE

INVOLVED IN FIORINI OPERATION ATTAMPICO, SHOULD ALSO BE

DETERMINED.:

(BUREAU REQUESTED HAVE MIAMI HANDLE AND SUCABO FOR INFORMATION

BUREAU, EXPLOSIVES LEFT IN MEXICO BY FIORIN HAVE BEEN RECOVERED

EY FEDERAL AUTHORITIES. (WOL

RECEIVED: 8:25 PM MSE

La miane

-47-67

BRO CO: ME. BRUNNAN

SECRET

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order lo protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

105165503-5/4167:

DocId: 32289101 Page 5

---

