# docid-32314671

## Page 1

Released under the Dom T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

...

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10336-10319

RECORD SERIES: DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-470-1446

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DE

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

06/26/1963

2

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA, ELSUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32314671 Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

\Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

6/26/63

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (63-3327)

PEES ONE. DEMOTE 1620478)

JAMES RIDDLE HOEDA

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORKATION CONCERNING

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

ReBuairtel 6/24/63,

At the time of contact with DE 370-C on 6/10/63, the informant

mado the connents sot forth in the lum and nade

the additlonal

comment, "This is for your personal information and not for

your files," informant indiesting that he was making these

comments for the personal information of SA PALeR M. WiE.

SA WEE atteaptod to detormine from the informant whether he

had personal knowledge of this decision, whether it was

speculation on his part or whether he had obtained the

Information fron another source.

Informant anstered that

BA WuS should merk his worde and he will see that the

intomation is correct.

Informant refused to be any more

specitic.

SA WEE has not been instructed to recontact

De 310-C as it is not considered prudent to do so at the

mesent tine in view of the informant's coments at the time

he furnished this information on 6/10/63.

In regard to the probable rollability of this incoration,

DE 370-C is considered to have personal knowledge concerning

sono activities of HOrTA and the Teansters Union.

The following is furnished for the additional information of

the Bureau; however, que to the sensitive nature of the bolow

listed infornant, caro should be utilized in the dissonination

of the information:

02-470-1946

3 - Burezu

SEARCHED

- Dotrolt

SERIALIZED

RPE: 8L

(4)

INDEXED

FILED

Aernio...

DocId: 32314671 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotè).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 92-470

DE 925- Cradvised on 6/13/63,

SILVIA PARIS and ChArLES

"CHUCK" O'BRIEN were discussing FITZSIMOUS,

presumably

MANS FIrASIIONS, and CHUCK nade the comment, "They don't

care about Holla.

They don't care 11 Hoffa llves or dios."

PARIS conmented that it was too

bad what O'BRIEN did

she imagined

that tloored "hin" (presumably HOFFA) 28

O'BRIEN was "all set up to have his job."

She also stated,

"Whoever takes Jimmy Hoffa's place should iire them all."

In the past DE 919-C0 has indicated that O'BRIEN vas in line

103

the presidency of the Teamsters Union, Local 299, Dotroit,

11 he wis convieted in the customs case presently

pending against hin in Detroit, along with SAM FINAZZO and

TOM PARISI, O'BRIEN'S

chances at the prosidency would be

void as the charges of felony and he could then no longer

be a union officer.

In view of the above,

it appears that the comments of

DE 370-C,

as set forth

, in the Lill enclosed with Detroit

alrtel of 6/20/63, may

rolate only to HOFFA not being

• candidate for re-olection to the prosidency of Teansters

Union Local 299, rather than to the presidency of the

International!

Detroit recomends

vAcE, olforts ho made to discreetly

Der this notar muring the pen suguser contact th

DE 370-C and the lam resubmitted 11 more specific information

1s

obtainod.

DocId: 32314671

Page 3

---

