# docid-32330424

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System.

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90090-10087

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-84265-29

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Motel.

Case#:WH 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

02/03/1960

40

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/05/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32330424

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

CONFIDESTIALI

MM 105-2307

LEADS

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

1. Will interview FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ COUCEIRO,

who reportedly has some knowledge of this conspiracy, obtain

all information he might have concerning the subjects, the

conspiracy and any other persons involved.

2.

will interview JOHN EK for any knowledge he

might have of this conspiracy and its participants. It is

noted that subject FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO planned to spend the

night with EK on 1/27/60.

3. Will check INS records concerning subject

VALDES.

4. Will follow and report prosecutive action in

this case.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Eleven copies of this report are being furnished

the Bureau since information contained iritits of security

intelligence value to other agencies,

and the Bureau may

desire to make dissemination. Dissemination is being made

locally to INS because both subjects are aliens.

On 1/26/60, RICHARD JAFFE, who is under develop-

ment as a PSI in Miami and who is closely associated with

ROLANDO MASFERRER, was advised that there had been received.

a possible threat to kidnap MASFERRER.

MASFERRER had moved from 1945 Southwest 7th Street and now

on 12,5.

He stated that

resided at an address believed to be 1900 Southwest 21st

Terrace at 19th Avenue in a green house. His new phone is

HI 4-9442. JAFFE stated he would immediately contact

- B-

- COVER PAGE

CONFIDENTIALI

NW 54460 DooId: 32330424 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDESTIAL

MM. 105-2307

MASFERRER..

No personal contact with MASFERRER was believed

advisable because he is currently subject to the jurisdiction

of the Federal Court in Miami (Judge CHOATE) in an immigration

matter in which he is protesting an INS order to move from

Florida to a place more than 150 miles from the Gulf of Mexico.

Notification of the possible threat was made in line with the

policy of notifying possible kidnap victims in matters of this

type to avoid possible future comment that FBI was in possession

of information affecting the personal safety of an individual

and failed to advise said person. JAFFE stated that he had

heard nothing concerning any possible threat.

On 1/28/60, AUSA LLOYD G. BATES, JR. was advised

by letter of the filing of the complaint against the subjects,

the issuance of a warrant for their arrest, the subjects arrest

and the fact that no criminal record was known on either sub-

ject at the time of arrest.

He was also furnished information

for the preparation of an Information oñ Indictment.

The Federal agency to which CATHERINE TAAFFE refers

in her signed statement is CIA. She insisted on putting this

information in her statement.

MM 639-S advised SA ROBERT JAMES DWYER on 1/29/60,

that he received information that CATHERINE TAAFFE told

FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ COUCEIRO that the FBI Agents who arrested

the subjects were hiding in the bathroom of her hotel room

where the arrests were made. This, of course, is not true,

and TAAFFE, in fact, had no knowledge of the place where the

Agent was

going to meet VALDES. E(U)

MM 639-S advised SA DWYER on 2/1/60, that he called

FERNANDO COBA, Lt., Confidential Section A (intelligence unit)

of the Cuban National Police, Havana, and told COBA of the

arrest of the

subjects. He said COBA was very excited and

wanted TAAFFE's telephone number. He said it appeared that

COBA is acquainted with TAAFFE and was going to call her.

(21)

-C -

- COVER PAGE - CONEIDENTIAL

NW 54460 DooId: 32330424 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-2307

CONFLU

TIAL

MM 639-S also advised that he called Lt. COBA on

with FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO and VALDES.

COBA also commented

that it was an entrapment because TAAFFE had called around

Havana trying to recruit people to help her in this kidnap

plan 21)

Following his arrest VALDES signed a waiver of

search which permitted

a search to be made of his hotel room

During the search, certain letters

and papers were located which may be pertinent to this case.

No evaluation of these letters has been made as yet and there-

fore no mention of them is made in this report. A receipt for

the material was obtained from VALDES and is being kept in the

files of this office together with the waiver of search.

- COVER PAGE -

RAC

CONFIDENTIAL:

NH 54460

DooId:32330424 Page 4

---

