# docid-32290127

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10202-10403

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-2600

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/27/1975

4

SGI, ASSOC, FUNERAL, MURDER, SUSPECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

Redact

04/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290127

Page 1

240

---

## Page 2

Released under. the bohn f

DATE: 111-11-2012

NO 15 CG

CODE

Kennedy ASsassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 050

1-128

83 7PM NITEL

TU

- 27-75 TG

DIRECTOR (92-3171)

CHICAGO (92-349) (P)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MUN 27

FROM

TELETY:

SAMUEL

Mo

GLANCANAS AKAS ARO UU: CHICAGO.

REMYTEL JUNE 26, 1975.2609

CG 6670-CTE, A CHICAGO LON MEMBER, WHO WAS A CLOSE

ASSUCIATE UF GIANCANA IN PAST, ADVISED-ON JUNE 25, 1975, THAT

AFTER GIANCANA'S DEAIN HE TRIED TO FIND OUT ABOUT FUNERAL

ARRANGEMENTS IN AN EFFORT TO ATTEND BOTH WAKE AND FUNERAL. CTE

FIRST

ELLED WILLIAM MARZULLO, CHICAGO UNDERIAKE LOCATED iZAR

GIANCANA'S RESIDENCE, AND WAS TOLD MONICLAIR FUNERAL HOME,

WHERE MAJORITY OF

HOODLUMS ARE WAKED, WAS HANDLING THIS MATTER.

MARZULLO TOLD CIE AT THIS TIME THAT "THIS IS A PRIVATE FAMILY

AFFAIR AND IT WILL DO YOU NO GOOD - YOU WON'T GET IN." CIE

'THEN MADE FURTHER INQUIRY AND WAS TOLD BY A RELATIVE CLOSE TO

HOODLUM LEADER JOSEPH ALUPPA "DON'T GO OR THEY'LL CALL YOU IN."

Assoc

Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm

Dep. A.D.-Inv

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

• Inspection

Intell.

Laborator

Plan. &

Spec.

Trainin

Legal Coun

Telephone

him.

Director Sec'y

INFORMANT STATED RATHER THAN EXPLAIN TO MOB BOSSES WHY HE

ATTENDED HE GAVE UP THE IDEA. SINCE IHE FUNERAL CIE LEARNED THAT U

HEREIN IS UN

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

EX 103

NCLASSIRED.

REG 56

92-3121-2600

15 JUL 1 1975

g, wit

TUrE

DocId: 32290127

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC, 2107 Hote)

DATE: i11-14-2017

PAGE THREE

NOT UB VIOUSLY CONCERNED OR DISTURBED

OVER DEAIM OF GIANCANA

WHICH WOULD LOGICALLY RULE OUT THEORY THAT GIANCANA COULD

HAVE BEEN KILLED BY "YOUNG TURKS" CAUSING MOB UNREST AND

UP HEAVAL. U

ALSO, CO 7Q16-CIE, WHOSE IDENTITY AS UPPER ECHELON

LEADER IN ORGANIZED CRIME IS KNOWN TO BUREAU, WAS ENCOUNTERED

DURING BRIEF CHANCE MEETING ON JUNE 26, 1975, AND HE COMMENTED

THAT RECENT NEWSPAPER ARTICLE (JACK MABLEY) WHICH LINKED GIANCANA'S

DEATH TO POWER PLAY BY YOUNG HOODS WAS INCORRECT. HE ALSO STATED

WITHOUT EMBELLISHMENT THAT "IF YOU KNEW THE TRUTH YOU WOULDN'T

BELIEVE IT" WHICH IMPLIES UNUSUAL CIRCUMSIANCES SURROUNDING

GIANCANA'S DEAIH. U

IT THEREFORE APPEARS AT THIS TIME, BASED ON AVAILABLE

INFU

AND CIRCUMSTANCES THAI GIANCANA'S DEATH EITHER HAD THE

APPROVAL OF CURRENT MOB LEADERSHIP, THE REASONS FOR WHICH HAVE

U

NUT YET BECOME APPARENT

OR IT WAS POSSIBLY A CRIME OF PASSION

DocId: 32290127

Page 3

---

