# docid-32175532

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JIN ADDADOLYA I LUI OYDINIVI

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10182-10265

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 62-116395-1342X

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

LEG. MX

DIRECTOR. FBI

DATE: 11/22/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECT:

100

CC, REQUEST, LHO

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

11/04/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

EBF, INC ADMIN PAGE, 4 A/T, 3 MEMO, LHM, 20 CABLEGRAMS, NEWS

ARTIC, ABSTRACT

DocId: 32175532 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination, Regprds Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATES. 11-11-2017

Bit Fat

FBI

Date:

5/12/64

CIA HAS NO OBISCTION TO

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

GOrMATION

(Priorily or Method of diailings) 9503RDA/mdle

ч.NT. Г34 5/21/93

+M193 J4C

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-82555)

ALL INPORMATION CONTA TRED

FROM:

IEGAT, MEXICO CITY (105-3702) (P)

EXOZZZ WARRE SHOWN

ORNERWISE

SUBJECT:

LICE HARVEY OSWALD, aka

IS - R - CUBA

1019, 9803815/82

Classien

CLASSIFIED BY 5886 SeD/GGL

DECLASSIRY OIN. 25X COS (6)

3/1196

(JFK)

ReBucab 4/30/64.

Mexico. City Office file on CHARLES SMALL (BUfIlE

100-12632) reflects

that he has the status of "inmigrado"

(permanent immigrant) in Mexico and that he departed Mexico

City for New York on 9/14/63.

retuning approximately

9/29/63.

arrangements have been

made to

• review SMAri's file"

Gobernacion to confirm his

inmigration status and determine whether or not that file

contains any record of his september travel.

SOURCE

/64, MISS ANNE GOODPASTURES CIA Mexico

Cliy, advised that Mexico City airline records refleckthat

CHARLES SMOLIKORE and

son, DENNIS,

departed from Mexico City

for New York Cloy on Eastern Alcline Flight #300, 9/14/53.

He returned to Mexico City from New York City on Eastern

Alrline Flight 1301, 9/29/53,

accompanied by his wife, BERTHE

SMOLIKOFF (Bufile 100-421747)s and son, DENNIS. BERTHE

UNRECONUED COPY EQUED IN

Bureau

11 - Liaison Section

(2 - Dallas, 100-10401

3

- Mexico City

(1 - MC 100-1535, C. SMALL)

(1 - MC 134-10A)

NLF:eim

1(9)

105-82555-3229

MAY 15 1964

AIRTEL

SOVAL DICTION

Approved:

53 MAY 19 196480

Special Agent in Charge CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32175532 Page 2

---

## Page 3

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: - 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL

MO 205-3702

SMOLIKOrF had preceded her husband in traveling to New York,

going by sasseen Airlines flasht 1300 on 9/9/03, accompanied

Dy son, ABBOTT (Bufile 100- 441277).

Checks of airline travel

to be disseminated ouüside the Bureau,

"as recorded in

the

report of sA NATHAN I. FERRIS dated 11/29/63, entitled "CHARLES

N. SMOLIKORA, ala, SM • Cs

" indicated that sMoLtkorr remained

in Mexico City following his arrival on 9/29/63 and claimed

to be 111.

In regard to Bureau request for opinion of this

office concerning the best manner for interviewing SMALL in

case

the Commission requests his interview, the following is

submitted:

It is sussested that such an interview should not

be requested from the Mexican authorities because of the

difficulties previously cited of exercising control

• Of

Mexican officials.

If such interview proves necessary, It should be

handled by an American official, preferably some official of

the Embassy who is operational abroad and would be able to

testily or sive a deposition if needed, as is customarily done

when official interviews are required abroad in Bureau cases.

It is believed that this could be best arranged by request by

the Bureau to the State Department in the customary manner.

The Department of State would then desue instructions to the

Embassy, wich would selece the proper official to handle the

Interview, and this office could cooperate closely with nom.

It is suggested also that an Agent of this office

sit in with the Embassy official during the interview to

insure that the Bureau's interests are protected and pertin-

ent points covered.

It is believed that SMOLIKOFF, as an

American citizen, would respond to a request from the Embassy

to appear at the

Embassy for an interview.

For the protection of

IEX-18 and MEX-19Xit is

suggested that the predication

Ot the Interview be that

several American Cormunists who have visited Mexico, when

returning to the United States,

have statea that SMOLIKOFF

had been of assistance to them in many ways and that the

January, 1954, National Guardian-tour was entertained by him;

CONFIDENTIAL

-- 2-

DocId: 32175532

Page 3

---

## Page 4

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL

HIC 105-3702

consequently, It was desired to determine whether or not

OSAiD had contacted hin or visited his store.

In the event

SMoLIKorE claims that he was not in Mexico City when OSWALD

was in this area, it Is felt that the interviewer could point

out to him that the airline records show that he left for

New York on 9/14/53 and returned on American Airlines 9/29/64

and that the airline manifests do not show any other travel

by him in the period prior to 10/3/53.

It is felt this

approach would direct attention away from effective informants

of this office.

With respect to the type of assistance given by

SMOLIKOrE to visicing Anerican Commupists,, this matter again

Mex-18 and MEX-I9kon 5/5/54. rhe informants ou

advised that, according to ELIZABETA CATLIT MORA (Bufile

I00-395934), SMOLIKOFF assists visitors who contact his store

in finding hoted accommodations, suggesting places of tourist

Interest to vioit, and advising them where they can purchase

Items in which they are interested. SMALL helps them make

appoinoments

with other American Communist Group in Mexico

(ACGH) associates they desire to meet whose addresses they do

not have, cashes checies for them and performs similar services.

According to MORA, SMOLIKOFF assists visiting Commu-

nists as described above 1f

he is impressed by them; if he

aoes not like chem, he merely gives them one of his business

cards, tells them to call him if he can help them, and dis-

misses them.

The above description of the assistance rendered by

SHOLIKOrE coincides with the information previously received

from CIA, Mexico, classified "SECRET and not to be disseminated

outside of the Bureau. "

Inasmuch is the type of assistance given visiting

Conmunists by ShOLlOrF may becone an issue during any official

interview wich him by American Embassy personnel, EX-18 and

Suhave beenxinstructed to cease further efforts to obtain

more

specific information in this regard In order not to

jeopardize their status.

With respect to Bureau instructions that a letter-

head memorandum be submitted recording the number of informants

contacted who could not furnish information that OSWALD had

CONFIDENTIAL

- 3 -

DocId: 32175532 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL

MC 105-3702

visited SMALL's business establishment, It is pointed out

thai the survey of intorments concerning ostAld was completed

and

his activities and contacts,

beensaway from Mexico andr

navilable for concact.

As soon as they can be consulted.

the letterhead memorandom requested by the Bureau will be

submitted.

CONFIDENTIAL

- 4=

DocId: 32175532

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (147USC-2107 Hote) .

(DATE' 11-11-2017

SECREX

ALL INPURMADION CONTAINED

HORDEN IS UNCLASSETTED

IX 022C VRARE SROWN

OTTASTISE

D AIRGRAM

XX CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

ELETYPE

Cosper

Callohan

Conrad

DeLoach

L,vung

Rosen

Sullivor:

Fovei -

Trotter

Tele. Rotm

Holmes ...

- Gondy =

9

i.-3

mia!

URGENT

11-29-63

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TOY

TO DIRECTOR

DECLASSIFICATION AND/

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY

NO. 195 N THIS DOCUMENT PRATION

EXCEPT FORL

BRACKETS PRI

BUFILE 105-82555°

K218/87

i! LEE HARVEY OSWALD. IS - RO

AMBASSADOR MANN LATE THIS AFTERNOON EXHIBITED TO ME CABLE, CLAS-

SIFIED SECRET, NUMBER 415 DATED NOVEMBER 28 LAST SENT TO HIM BY

ALEXIS JOHNSON.

IN THIS CABLE JOHNSON ADVISED THAT STATE AND FBI CONCUR WITH AM-

BASSADOR'S RECOMMENDATIONS AND THAT FBI HAD SENT ITS REPRESENTATIVE

HERE GUIDANCE ALONG THESE LINES.

THERE IS NO DOUBT IN AMBASSADOR'S MIND NOR IN OURS AS TO ROLE WE

ARE TO PLAY IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATION HERE AND JOHNSON'S

CABLE MENTIONED ONLY FOR INFO OF BUREAU IN ORDER THAT IT MAY HAVE

SOME IDEA OF WAY JOHNSON IS HANDLING MATTER THERE•

LUIS ECHEVERRIA, ACTING MINISTER OF GOBERNACION, THIS AN ERISON

ADVISED CIA REPRESENTATIVE THAT INTERROGATION OF GILBEROMRCE

ALVARADO)

FUGARTEJ IS CONTINUING AND ECHEVERRIA FEELS THAT EIGHER

GUIDOS

TELLING TRUTH OR IS BEST. LIAR HE HAS EVER SEEN.

ECHEVERRIA INDICAT-

ED TO CIA REPRESENTATIVE THAT IN SENERAL STORY TOLD BY ALTARASO IS

SAME AS THAT GIVEN TO CIA. REVARAÃO CONTINUES TO STICK TO DATE OF_

SEPTEMBER 18 AS ONE WHEN HE SAW MONEY PASSED.

ECHEVERRIAI RECOGNIZE.

THAT IT WOULD HAVE BEEN PRACTICAL IMPOSSIBILITY FOR OSWALD TO HAVE

BEEN IN MEXICO CITY ON THIS DATE BUT BELIEVES ALVARADO MAY

SIMPLY

BE CONFUSED CONCERNING EXACT DATE

S) CAPTAIN WHEELOCK OF NICARAGUAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE ARRIVED

4/28/93

Glassified

9803 Rig/KGR

MEC- 56

105-82555-383

2-0,

Declassily on' CADR DFf)

..5

ĐEC 12 1953

vies

EX-105

SECRET

Kenniat

I die intelligenee contained in the above message is to be disseminated ouide the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to moteet the Bureau's cryptographie sostems.

DocId: 32175532

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

.. DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRETI

MURMATION CONTAINEL

HENRIN IS UNCLASSITIED

EXORPT RHERE SHIONE

DECODEDCOPY

OTHIEWISE

JAN CRAM XX CABLEGRAM

RADIO O TELETYPE

Moht -

Cosper -

Collaben

Conrad

DeLouch

Gala

Rosen:

Sullivan

Tavel -

Troiter

Tele. Room

Hoines -

Gandy =

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. OBM3/193EYCEPTFOR

BOACKETS fE.I,2

K4197

#/20/93

Classified by 9803RDD/KSR

Declassifv on CADR

URGENT 11-29-63

TO DIRECTOR

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY NO.: 191

BUFILE 105-82555€

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, IS-R.

REMYÇAB NOVEMBER 28 LAST.

IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING RECEIPT OF AUTHORIZATION CIA HERE

MADE TIL BERDURES

AVARADO UGARTE AVAILABLE TO MEXICAN MINISTRY

OF COBEPNACION CINTERION) YESTERDAY AFTERNOON, CALVARADO

PRESENTLY IN CUSTODY OF MEXICAN AUTHORITIES AND BEING

INTERROGATED. HE APPARENTLY HAS STUCK TO HIS STORY UP UNTIL

NOW BUT INTERROGATION CONTINUING.

CIA ADVISES THAT LUIS ECHEVERRIAD ACTING MINISTER OF

GOBERNACION, COMMENTED THÀT HE FOUND ALVARDOS STORY

""FASCINATING."

SILVIA DURAN RELEASED BY MEXICANS 6 PM YESTERDAY BUT

........

REPORTEDIY CONTINUES TO BE UNDER HEAVY SURVEILLANCE AND SUBJECT

TO BEING ARRESTED. RESULTS OF HER

INTERROGATION NOT YET

RECEIVED BUT UNDERSTOOD SHE GAVE NO NEW INFORMATION.

PRESS HERE ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT MEXICAN GOVERNMENT HAD

REJECTED CUBAN DIPLOMATIC NOTE WHICH PROTESTED ARREST OF DURAN

BY MEXICAN AUTHORITIES ON NOVEMBER 23

. LAST, REJECTION STATED

TO BE BASED ON NATURE OF LANGUAGE ÜSED BY CUBANS IN THEIR NOTE,

CIAESTATION CHIE ADVISED TODAY THAT CAPTAIN FRANKLYN

not eaT 6074428 9419

A. (3)

REC- 56

105 - 82553

38

BAD CC: MR. DRENAN

Ex-105 5 DED 12 1963

+ 013-201 077288

I che intelligence contained in the abou

abroad outside the inean, is is suchested that it be suitaBly

DocId: 32175532 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released-undet the John F. Kennedy Assassination Pegords Collection Act of 1992 (44475

2107

"Hote).

DATES 11-14-2017

1G.156

DAI GRAM

XXCABLEGRAM

DECODED COPY

ORADIO, 1 TELETYPE

(5)

CE 3 FROM LEGES MEXICO CITY, NO. 191

WHEELOCK GARCIA OF

NICARAGUAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE IS ARRIVING

MEXICO CITY TODAY TO BE AVAILABLE TO ASSIST MEXICANS IN

INTERROGATION OF ALVARADO IF SUCH ASSISTANCE DESIRED.

THIS MORNING AMBASSADOR MANN EXPRESSED TO US HIS GREAT

PLEASURE ON AUTHORIZATION GIVEN FOR CIA TO MAKE ALVARADO

TO ISOLE ONE CANS VERSAT EVES IS STOREONLY WAY

IN VIEW OF FACT THAT ALVARADO ISI INTERROGATION BY MEXICANS

IS CONTINUING IT IS BELIEVED THAT SUBMISSION OF DETAILED MEMO

COVERING INVESTIGATION TO DATE IN MEXICO SHOULD BE HELD IN

ABEYANCE UNTIL FINAL RESULTS OF INTERROGATION. OF ALVARADO

AVAILABLE.

ACE THIS WILL BE DONE.

CLARK D. ANDERSON

RECEIVEDI

7:49 PM

JWF

Callohan

Conrad -

DeLoach

Evons -

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trntter

• Teie. Room

Holmes

Gandy =

SECRET

I the intelligener contained in the obor message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl

varaphrised in order do proteet the buries croptographic systems

DocId: 32175532

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released"andftophe John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-745297A we/

Memoranciam CONFUTIAL

TO

DIRACTOR, FBI (105-82555)

DATE: 1/24/64

FROM

Tie REGAT, MESO (105-3702) C8

SUBJECT:

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, AKA

IS - R

FIED

ONTAINED

Immediately following

assassination of President

KENNEDY on 11/22/63, all sources of this office were instructed

to be alert for any information which would tend to indicate

a connection between OSWALD and the Cubans or the Communist

Party:

tollowinists a summary of information furnished

by MEX-182

both of whom have furnished reliable

information in

the

past, since that time.

On 12/6/63 sources reported that ELIZABETH CATLETT

MORA, aKa BETTY MORA, Bufile 100-395934, had been very upset

and

excited over the

involvement of OSWALD as the reported

assassin of the President.

She indicated that the Communist

Party of Mexico was very interested in obtaining all the

iniormation available concerning OSWALD's travel to Mexico

and particularly as to how much the American authorities know

MORA told informants that the only way OSWALD could

be linked "to Mexico" was

through his activities before his

trip to the Soviet Union.

She was very interested in

obtaining information concerning the date OSWALD departed for

MORA considered it

"terribly important" to have any

references to OSWALD's activities in New Orleans before

he went to Russia.

She stated that if something regarding

134318

his activities at

that time appeared in the press it could

"blow the lid and we could all get fried." MORA indicated to

informants that she could not understand why the investigation

of OSWALD,

as reported up to that time in the press, had not

focused on

New Orleans instead of on Dallas.

MORA told the sources that OSWALD was well-known in

Russia among the Americans who were there at the same time

and he was

"not that much of a

nut" (as to singlehandedly

7 - Bureau

(1 - Liaison Section)

(2 - Dallas, 100-10461)

(2 - New Orleans, 100-16601)

1 - Mexico City

CDA: plb

(8)

REC - 5/42

B JANA

191361

C

5 26173

9803RDD

Declas

CONS

THAL

SOVI

058/1/4550 Br

56685L0/GG

DocId: 32175532

Page 9

---

