# docid-32319009

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10368-10143

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-62X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF INTELLIGENC

TITLE:

DATE: 05/11/1993

' PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/11/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32319009

Page 1

35

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

321

ALL INFORMATION

HERE IN OSMANTON CONTAINED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

May 11, 1993

Delivered by haut

Mr. Frank Most

Historical Review

Group

Center for the study of Intelligence

1225 Ames Building

Washington, D.C.

20505

RE :

FEDORA AND

CHAMROCK]ES)

Dear Mr. Most:

John Fo Kenwedy

Mr. Barry Harrelson of your office has advised us that

some of your documents make reference to the relationship between

the FBI and the code names FEDORA and (SHAMROCK. Mr. Harrelson(S]

stated that the CIA is researching whether to release certain

information relating to these two code names. (&)

The FBI requests that you allow us to review and

comment upon all CIA documents that make reference to the FBI's

relationship with FEDORA or SHAMROCK. We have an interest incs

both matters and would like to comment on issues which may

concern both the CIA and the FBI. (x)

If you have any questions concerning this matter,

please contact Grant Harmon at (202) 324-9260. Mr. Harmon

is

located in Room 6712 at our FBI Headquarters.

Dep. Dir.

ADD Adm..

ADD Inv.

Asst.

Dir.:

Adm. Servs..

Crim. Inv.

Ident.

Info. Mgnt.

Insp.

Intell.

Lab.

Legal Coun

Tech. Servs.

Training

Cong. Affs. Off.

; Off. of EEO

i: Off. Liaison &

Int. Affs.

Off. of Public Alls.

Telephone Rm.

Director's Office

7/15/98

CLASSIFED BY: 5668-540/nde

REASON: 1.5 (C,a:)

DECLASSIFY ON: X (1)(6)

(JFK)

1

1

- Mr.

- Mr.

O'Connor

Harmon

Sincerely yours,

15/

Terry T. O'Connor

Inspector - JFK Task Force

+27-15-10292055%x

lassified b

9803 RDD/MAC

eclassify or

5/10/93

OADR

(4)

MAN ROOM t

DocId: 32319009

Page 2

SECRETI

Harmon, Room 6712

---

