# docid-32287592

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10197-10368

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 9-48130-4.5

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. WMFO

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/11/1968

PAGES: 10

SUBJECT:

EVID, TG, TYW, THREAT, CUBAN POWER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

04/06/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC LHM, LAB RPT

DocId: 32287592 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of T992 (41 USC 2107 lote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL

WFO 9-2065

2.) 1-B Western Union Telegram Form dated

6/6/68 addressed to Sir HAROLD WILSON,

London, England.

3.)

1-C Western Union Telegram Form dated

6/6/68, addressed to the Honorable

GUSTAVO DIAZ ORDAZ, Palacio de Gobierno

4.) 1-D white envelope addressed to "

"The Honorable Ambassador of

i Great Britain to the United States

Great Britain Embassy

Washington. - D.C., " postmarked Miami, Florida,

6/7/68.

5.) 1-E (same as 1-A).

6.) 1-F (same as 1-B).

7.) 1-G (same as 1-C).

8.) 1-H white envelope addressed to

"The Honorable Ambassador of

Spain to the United States

Spanish Embassy

Washington. - D.C.," postmarked Miami, Florida,

6/7/68.

It is noted that items 1-A through 1-c and items

1-E through 1-G were translated by SA ROBERT S. CAVANUGH,

who advised that the contents of each, in numerical order,

contained the exact same message as items numbered 1 through 3

ter previously submitted with referenced airtel.

Items 1-A through 1-D were furnished by Mr. BARRY

RUSSELL - JONES, Security Officer to Ambassador of England,

British Embassy, 3100 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C.

(WDC), on 6/11/68. RUSSELL - JONES advised that items 1-A

2

DocId: 32287592 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 711 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

WFO 9 - 2065

through 1-D were handled exclusively by ELIZABETH FOTHERGILI,

Assistant to Ambassador, British Embassy, WDC. He advised that

FOTHERGILI will be available for fingerprinting in the event

her prints are needed for elimination purposes.

Items 1-E through 1-H were furnished by Mr. GEORGE

CLIFT, Department of State,

Bureau of Inter-American Affairs,

Office of the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, Room 6909, on

331335

6/11/68. CLIFT advised that items 1-E through 1-H were received

at the Spanish Embassy, WDC, on 6/8/68 and were handeddover to

the Department of State. He further advised that numerous

people have handled these items. CLIf

could furnish no

additional information in this matter. STATE DEPT INFO IS UNCLASSIFIED CARAI

PER DOS ANTAGRITY 8/28/96)

Intelligence Division, Metropolitan Police Department

(MPD), was advised information contained in LHM and dissemination

is being made locally to that agency.

FBI Laboratory is requested to conduct suitable

examination in an effort to develop latent fingerprints and

retain the original of all items 1-A through 1-H for possible

typewriting examination.

WFO continuing investigation.

124863

HAL

101-10308

DocId: 32287592 Page 3

9-48130-41

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Hecords Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Washington, D.C. 20535

June 11, 1968

ALLEGED THREATS TO GOVERNMENTS

OF SPAIN, MEXICO, ENGLAND, AND JAPAN

POSSIBLE EXTORTION/

On June 10, 1968, Mr. Alberto Becerra Sierra,

Minister, Mexican Embassy, 2829 16th Street, N.W.,

Washington, D.C. (WDC), furnished an envelope addressed to

"The Honorable Ambassador of Estados Unidos de Mexico to the

United States, Mexican Embassy, Washington, D.C.," postmarked

Miami, Florida, June 7, 1968.

Contained in this envelope

were three Western Union Telegram Forms, each of which, contained

a typewritten message in the Spanish language.

The translation

of the contents of each of these telegrams is

as follows:

"No. 1 Western Union telegram dated 6/6/68,

addressed to General Francisco Franco, Madrid, Spain:

"Disregarding the petitions of the Cuban people,

it obliges us to give an ultimatum of war against your

Government unless you suspend all commerce with the Cuban

Communists regime.

If you do not do this, you will be

the one responsible for the Spanish planes and ships that will

be dynamited. To avoid further mishaps, don't make the mistake

of under estimating this advice from Cuban power.

"Signe

d/Ernesto

CUBA

Delegate General

Cuban Power

"No. 2 Western Union telegram dated 6/6/68,

addressed

to Sir Harold Wilson, London, England:

"The British cargo ship 'Granwood,' property of a

shipping company, blown up on 5 May 20 miles southeast of

Cayo Hueso, which explosion was cloaked in sabatoge was brought

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

MEREN IS UNCLASSITED

4-4.9y955 18130 - 4

DATE 6/8/83

Sp8MAC/KSR

-NGLOSURE

DocId: 32287592 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 U5C 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

= -3

ALLEGED THREATS TO GOVERNMENTS

OF SPAIN, MEXICO, ENGLAND, AND JAPAN

'about by anti-Castro Cubans. The British Government has

said nothing. You ought to know that this is the first

punishment from the heroic Cuban people to the British

Government which trades with the tyranny of Castro. They

will have to pay with much British blood for your

opportunistic attitude inspired by economic gains without

respect to those people who fight for a freedom that you

only know how to defend for gold.

"Signed Ernesto

Delegate General

Cuban Power

"No. 3 Western Union telegram dated 6/6/68, to the

Honorable Gustavo Diaz Ordaz, Palacio de Gobierno, Mexico,

D.F.:

"Disregarding the petitions of the Cuban people,

it obliges us to give an ultimatum of war against your

Government unless you suspend all commerce with the Cuban

Communists regime. If you do not do this, you will be the

you do ati

one responsible for the Mexico ships and planes that will be

dynamited. To avoid further mishaps, don't make the mistake

of under estimating this advice. from Cuban power.

"Signed Ernesto

. Delegate General

Cuban Power"

On June 11, 1968, Mr. Barry Russell - Jones, Security.

Officer, British Embassy,

3100 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W.; WDC,

made available to Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation a white envelope addressed to:

"The Honorable Ambassador of

Great Britain to the United States

Great Britain Embassy

Washington. - D.C."

2

9-48130-4

DocId: 32287592 Page 5

---

