# docid-32338230

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90141-10026

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-92413-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PAPICH

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE: 11/27/1960

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

QUINTIN PINO MACHADO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32338230

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE:. 11-14-2017

SECRET

ADDENDUM RAM: bg DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION 11-27-60

Quintin Pino is apparently identical with Quintin Pino

Machado, born 12-21-31 in Cuba, who arrived in the United States

on 10-18-60 at Miami and was destined to the Cuban Embassy,

Washington, D. C. According to INS, Pino was issued a G-1

visa

and it was indicated Pino would be a Cuban United Nations

delegate.

According to sources at Cuban Embassy, Washington, D. C.,

Pino has

been serving as Cuban Alternate Delegate to the

Organization of American States (OAS). Pino formerly was Cuban

Ambassador to Nicaragua who reportedly was kicked out of

Nicaragua for meddling in internal affairs of Nicaragua.

We

already have State Department clearance to investigate him.

Martinez arrived

in the United States on 2-13-60 and

has been listed as a clerk at the Cuban Embassy since that time.

On the basis of reports that he was distributing Cuban propaganda;

we obtained State Department clearance to investigate him on

8-1-60.

He has been described as "girl crazy" and when he

arrived in the United States one of his suitcases reportedly

contained a pistol.

Through coverage of the Cuban Embassy, we

learned that Martinez had been missing from the Embassy for

a few days and it was indicated that be was in the Baltimore

Diana Luz Berrios.

On 11/24 & 25/60,

Martinez story.

the Embassy on 1l-25-60, had been questioned by Pino and other

Cuban officials, had prepared a letter to a. Cuban official

requesting five day's leave to marry Berrios and in the letter

be expressed loyalty to Cuba.

In addition, the sources learned

that tape recorder, was used during the questioning of Martinez.

According to another Washington Field source, Martinez planned

to marry Berrios on 11-26-60 and to go to Havana alone on 11-27-60.

SA R. A. Mullins discussed this matter with Mr. J. P.

McDonnell of State Department on the morning of 11-27-60 and

McDonnell recalled that some question had arisen over advisability

1960. He

said it was his recollection that Pino had been a

of admitting Pino to the United States in Octobel ' strong arm man"

1 - Me. Deboach Ma Parsons

1 - Mr.

Rosen

1

Belmont

1

- Mr. Donahue

1

- Mr.

Mullins

1 - Mr. Papich

MA RACIAN

PISE IS GLASSI

- 3 -

SECRET

DocId: 32338230 Page 2

---

