# docid-32330444

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

Released under the John

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90090-10107

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-84265-40

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 02/24/1960

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

HH 54460

21

DocId: 32330444

Page 1

---

## Page 2

12-1'3-56)

CONFIAFATIAL

A'! IMFERMATION CONTAINED

HENRIN IS

ASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWI

OTHERWISE.

Transmit the following in

FBI

Date:

2/24/60

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

CRASO. @ EAT.

REASON-ECIM II,

DATE OF REVIEW

-2.4.2

813191

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

-DOORED HY SPEARCHE

TO:

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (305-39684

SUBJECT:

JUAN BUEN

URA FUSENTO

FERNANDEZ

DEL CASTRO RODRIGUEZ, ET AL.

ROLANDO ARRAOTO MASFERRER ROJAS - VICTIM

KIDNAPPING - CONSPIRACY

IS - CUBA

ReBuairtel dated 2/10/60, captioned as above. U

Mrs. CATHERINE TAAFFE, Hotel Bretton Hall, NYC, tele-

phonically contacted the NYO on 2/19/60 and stated she desired to

come to the NY and relate the details of what had happened to

her in Miami, Florida on 2/12/60. Cl

Mrs. TAFFE appeared at the NYO on the afternoon of

2/19/60 and was interviewed by SAS JOHN FRANCIS CURRAN and FRANCIS

J. O'BRIEN, at which time she related the incidents and meetings.

both in Havana and Miami with GEORGE VALDES and others relative

to the plan to kidnap ex-Cuban Senator ROLANDO MASFERRER. €

TAAFFE advised that while at the McAllister Hotel, Miami,

after the arrest.of GEORGE VALDES and JUAN DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ by

the Miami Office, she was most careful in her contacts and in her

telephone conversations.

Mrs. TAFFE advised that on the evening

of 2/12/60 she had called Room Service to have her tray picked up.

She stated that about 5 P.M. there was a knock at her door and she

thought it was a waiter to pick up the tray; she opened the door

and two

Cubans, one

small and thin, and the other very husky,

and the huskie of the cout that cha be nay a out

3-Bureau (105-84265) RM

MCT - 3

2-Miam1 (105-2307) RM

REG- 38

105-31/2125-40

l-New York (02-12251

(TAFFE)

20-FEB 25 1960

-New York (105-39684) *

1/20

JFC: EG

but byne

(8)

Approved

Sent

•Speckal Agent in Charge CONFIL

_ M

Per,

NTIAL

#GUI

NW 54460 DooId: 32330444

Page 2

---

