# docid-32328771

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90079-10029

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 165-17-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

10/31/1961

30

NOLA PRINTING COMPANY

JOSEPH PORETTI

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Redact

07/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

NN 45923

DocId: 32328771

Page 1

---

## Page 2

nev, 3-12-551

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

DATE

10/31/61

REPORT MADE BY

SA STUART E. SCHEER

CHARACTER OF. CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

1/9/7/61 to 10/26/61

TYPID EY

bal

NOLA PRINTING COMPANY

ITWI

SYNOPSIS:

REFERENCES:

Report of SA STUART E. SCHKER dated 9/5/61

at New Orieans,

entitled, "NOLA PRINTING COMPANY - IGA-WS.

Butel to New Orleans, : 9/15/61.

New Orleans teletype to Chicago, Little Rock, and Pittsburg,

9/20/61.

New Orleans airtel to the Bureau,

10/4/01.

Bureau airtel to New Orleans, 10/16/67J- GOPIES MAS

DATEZ.

FoRfeitini

LEADS:

(SCE GOriLE ü2T1/L00)

8

70-2119

BOSTON, CHICAGO, LITTLE ROCK, SAVANNAH, and PITTSBURCH

DIVISIONS:

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

One copy of this report 1s being sent to each

of these offices for information to show contact by the

subject this case and individuals in each of these offices*

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

165-198-

REG. 21

Bureau

Boston (Info)

-

Chicago. (Info)

*X.

1102

- Little Rock (Info)

20 NOV G 1961

- Savannah (Info)

1

- Pittsburgh(Info)

3 - New Orleans (165-2)

Acc:

Form 0-6

COVER PAGE

PROPERTY OF FBI.—This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loa

57 NOV 171061

NW 45923 DocId:32328771 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO (165-2)

Mr. OLSEN advised on September 18, 1961 that

on September 14, 1961, PORETTO had told him that he was

going to have all the telephones removed; however, he has

not called back to date, to have the three position

rotary discontinued.

OTHER 4

J PCI, New Orleans, advised

SA J. DAWSON VAN EPS that Nola Printing Company discontinued

its wire service to bookmakers on September 13, 1961.

knew of no plans to re-establish the service but said

that a possibility existed that bookmakers in the New

Orleans area might be furnished with the racing results

from local tracks. He described these tracke as Jefferson

Downs in Jefferson Parish, and the New Orleans Fair

Grounds. He advised that the racing season at Jefferson

Downs was to open on the night of September 19, 1961 and

he had not been advised whether or not the Nola Printing

wire service would furnish the results.

He stated that it was his opinion that the

racing results at the Fair Grounds would be available

when the season opened.

He explained that it is comparatively

simple to get these results inasmuch as the track is

surrounded by buildings on the outside of the track and

an observer could watch the races from one of these buildings

and furnish the results to Nola Printing.

He stated that if he did not receive the results

COVER PAGE

NW

45923

DocId: 32328771

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NO (165-2)

On October 24, 1961, RAYMOND ROLLING, PCI, New

Orleans, advised SA FURMAN G.

BOGGAN that JOSEPH TROVATO,

aLso known as JOE DOYLE, is presently employed as a

cashier at the Town and

Country Motel, 1225 Airline H1gh-

Nay, Metalrie, Louisiana, for $60.00 a week.

On October 26, 1961,

OTHER 4

that he considered his source of this information to be

rellable.

D *

COVER PAGE

HW 45923

DocId: 32328771

Page_ 4

---

## Page 5

NO (165-2)

on september 10, 1961, CHARLES D'AMICO,

703 Third Street, Alexandria,

JOHN B. HONEYCUTT

law was signed by the President, Nola Printing Company,

who had been furnishing him race-wire service,

ceased furnishing information and there was no

mention made by anyone from Nola Printing Company

as to any future plans of theirs to furnish wire

service in the future.

On September 20, 1961, HILLARY J. GAUDIN,

Attorney, Hibernia Bank

Bullding, New Orleans,

Louisiana, advised SA REGIS L. KENNEDY that he 1s

the attorney for the Nola Printing Company,

He

identified JOSEPH ALBERT PORETTO as one of the

artners of Nola Pringing Company.

He stated that

lola Printing Company was in the business of

disseminating race results of horse races but

ceased operation as a race-wire service on

September 13, 1961, after passage of Federal Legis-

lation pertaining to the Interstate Transmission of

On September 20, 1961 the Little Rock Division

advised that PCI, l

_stated that Nola

Printing Company stopped disseminating race-wire

service to Little Rock, Arkansas on September 8 or 9,

OTHER 4

9

...:

HH-45923

DoeLd:32328771

Page 5

---

