# docid-32287349

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10197-10125

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-29-450

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/19/1962

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

CIP, IRS EMPLOYEE, RECEIVING MONTHLY PAYOFFS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC MEMO ,

v9.1

DocId: 32287349

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released-under-the-FoliF

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

1-41 (Fi0% 6-2-61)

Mat

DECODE

D

OPY

x Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad'

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Ingram -

Gandy

PAGE

=. FROM MIAMI

190200

CALLED HYMAN MARTIN AND EHERNBERG.

MORGAN STERN STATES THERE IS

NO WAY OF KNOWING WHO THEY WILL HIT NEXT, HOWEVER, HIS FRIEND

FREDDIE WILL CALL HIM TONIGHT IF HE SMELLS ANYTHING AND FREDDIE

ALTHOUGHT IT WAS TO BE JACK RAINWATER. MORGANSTERN THEN CALLED

INFORMATION AND ASKED FOR THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE, TELLING

THE OPERATOR TO LOOK UNDER US GOVERNMENT AND DIRECTOR OF INTERNAL

REVENUE.

AFTER GETTING THE NUMBER, MORGANSTERN TOLD EHERNBERG

THAT HIS FRIEND TAKES FRIDAY OFF AND GOES TO THE TRACK SOMETIMES.

MORGNASTERN THEN MAKES A CALL AND ASKS FOR MR. HEIDER. HE THEN

ADVISES EHERNBERG HEIDER IS OUT FOR THE DAY. IT IS NOTED EHERNBERG

IS A PARTNER OF MARTIN IN MARTIN'S BOLITA OPERATION. BUREAU REFer

TO BUFILE 58-3669 AND MIAMI LETTER SEPTEMBER: 15, 1.955, CAPTIONED

WILLIAM THEODORE JONES, FRANCIS JOSEPH HOGAN, COLLECTION OFFICER,

IRS, MIAMI, FLORIDA, BRIBERY: ON PAGE 3 INFORMATION FURNISHED

BY MM 606-PO DISCLOSED AN ENVELOPE IN THE OFFICE OF ROY O. LANCE

WHICH ENVELOPE WAS ADDRESSED TO FRED WO HEIDER AND INDICATED

HEIDER WAS THEIR-FIX IN IRS. REPORT OF SA HO WAYNE SWINNEY

DATED DECEMBER 2, 1955, CAPTIONED WILLIAM THEODORE JONES, ET AL,

BRIBERY, ON PAGE 25 SETS OUT COMPLETE BACKGROUND ON HEIDER WHO

¡WAS A COLLECTION SUPERVISOR. MM 751-0% HAD PREVIOUSLY INDICATED

TON EVER

TON SEVERAL OCCASIONS THEIR SOURCE IN IRS WAS NOT IN INTELLIGENCE

HUNIT BUT IN THE COLLECTIONS BRANCHO THEIR SOURCE, THEREFORE,

COULD NOT GIVE SPECIFICS, HOWEVER, WAS LEARNING CERTAIN INFORMA

TION FROM AN INDIVIDUAL IN INTELLIGENCE. MM 751-0* REPORTS

HEIDER RECEIVING $100. PER MONTH AND HEIDER'S FRIEND IN INTEL-

LIGENCE WAS OFFERED $200 PER MONTH, BUT NOW REFUSES IT. HE HAD

BEEN PREVIOUSLY OFFERED $100 PER MONTH BUT HAD ASKED FOR $200

PER MONTH. RED RAINWATER REPORTED LAYOFF. BOLITA MAN AND

COLLECTOR FOR PROTECTION FROMBOLITA OPERATORS EOR: MIAMI PO.

If the incellen sales in the above message is

to be disseminated autside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

DocId: 32287349 Page 2

---

## Page 3

E7S101 10120

Pion Abor

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

1-41 (Tiev. 6-2-61)

DECODED COPY

Radio

• Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan -

Conrad .

DeLosch

Evans -

Malone

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy -

PAGE 3 FROM MIAMI

1:90200

ACCORDING TO MM 606-PC SPENT $1,200 BUILDING PATION AND BARBECUE

PIT AT RESIDENCE OF FRED W. HEIDER.: THIS REPORTEDLY OCCURRED

1954 OR 1955. RED RAINWATER CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF HYMAN MARTIN

IN MARTINIS PRESENT BOLITA OPERATION; MIAMI OPENING SEPARATE...

BRIBERY INVESTIGATION ON FREDERICK WILLIAM HEIDER, UROS AND

BUREAU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED

RECEIVED:

5:25 AM

RN

Genera

AND

IRS)

214-62 aer

Commissioner of laternat

PRSiON

/levente

40

Memo

"was*"re"pe above message is to be dissemnaten cuttle the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

DocId:32287349

Page 3

---

