# docid-32293514

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10211-10290

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-187

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

TO:

SAC, SF

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 01/29/1963

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MISUR, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

. DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32293514

Page 1

---

## Page 2

easet unter the John F? kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 141 USC 2107 Hote)

DATEE (HeY-1112017

FBI

Date:

1/29/63

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (92-593)

THE

CRIMINAL "COMMISSION, " ET AL

AR - CONSPIRACY

got 3

ReBulet,, 1/28/63, to New York and numerous other offices. :

Concerned with the investigation of "Causa Nostra," San Francisco

has noted the use of this term in numerous communications by

Eastern offices where the information obviously came from

misur coverage.

Since SF-2550-C-TE states that the correct

wording and spelling is

"Cossa Nostra"_--meaning "our thing,"

rather than "our

cause," could it be possible that we have

taken the phonetic word as heard over misurs and given it the

wrong spelling and the wrong meaning?

It is the understanding of the San Francisco Office that the

word, "coe."

"Causa," in Italian would be

pronounced "cow" rather

If the offices receiving copies of this com-

munication have nun into this situation where the connect

word is "cossa"

rather than "causa," it would be appreciated

if they would promptly notify both

the Bureau and San Francisco.

These offices could very easily obtain this information from

the employees who monitor the misurs.

1

Bureau (AM)

New York (AM)

Philadelphia (AM)

Newark (AM)

Chicago (AM)

EsiSan

i Francisco

HFC: jab

dit.

Approved:

Speci

DocId: 32293514 Page 2

0 1983

59

REES

92-6054-187

ST-118

• JAN 31.1963

N

Sent.

_M

Per

in

Charge

---

