# docid-32423500

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

7/7/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

SSCIA

157-10014-10112

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTTEE

07-M-18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA

FROM:

AARON, DAVID

TO :

TITLE:

Released under the John

F. kennedy

ussassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

• 144 0SC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NIT 53244 Date:

06-14-2017

DATE:

07/28/1975

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

SZULC, TED

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: CORRESPONDENCE

CLASSIFICATION: Declassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/08/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: CCBOX 438

v9.1

HH 53244

DocId: 32423500

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date :

08/06/95

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD

• NUMBER: 157-10014-10112

RECORDS SERIES : MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-M-18

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM

: AARON, DAVID

TO:

TITLE :

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

07/28/75

3

: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

SZULC, TED

DOCUMENT TYPE : CORRESPONDENCE

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 01/05/99

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : CCBOX 438

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53244

DooId: 32423500

Page 2

---

## Page 3

THIS FILE CONTAINS SPECIALLY DESIGNATED INTELLIGENCE MATERIAL

(COMPARTMENZED)

mation in this file is to be read only. It is not to be extracted,

ed, paraphrased, or discussed with another person without specific

a question, or a requirement, speax to the control

who save you access to this file.

TE OF PERSON HAVING ACCESST FROM

TO

ISSUED BY SECURED BY TAMIN

R 567

0x 438

1N 53244

DocId:32423500

Page 3

---

## Page 4

R567

NOTE FOR

FROM:

DATE :

FILES

DAVID AARON

JULY 28, 1975

The attached notes

were supplied by Ted Szulc subsequent

to his testimony before the Select Committee and should be attached

to that testimony.

NW 53244

DocId:52423500

Pagé 1

---

## Page 5

NT

T0r

969.

Notes on IS conversation with JFK,

at hite House - Nov-9, 196I.

R567

IS invitad by JFK at Bobbyrs suggestion after lunch at DOJ.

Meeting asault over 1 hro-Dick Goodsuin only person present.

Miss Lincoln next door she brought in Jfk pie he autographed

IOr ME In roCkerD IS and: Goodwin on white sofa. JFK

wanted tallabt. Cuba continuing conversation of is with REk-

and mainly kent asking questions Also asked for suggestions and

a son to a tro Ta cantons to tried, what tra

remarks about isthat Castro thought tt despite Bay of Pigs JFK

was the only American politician with whom he could deal in terms

of improvad relations, etc. a JFK asked about how strong Castro

regime Isrete - whether new guerrilla operations by US would make

sense. He, talked about the need of controlling CIA in some way so

that TA would beconstruct another operation like Bay of Pigs. Said

CIA vasa problem for governmentshe and Bobby wanted to deal with

it guess to control cIA better- Then, suddenlT, Pres Leaned

fowardhand asked me. What would youthink if lordered Castro to

be assassinated 2' Esed this would be

terrible idea because a)

It probably wouldn't do away with regime;on contrary it would

strengthen It, and b's felt personally US had no business in

assassinations, JFK them said he was testing me,that he felt

the same way - he added "I'm glad you feel the same wayll — because

indeed: US. morally mist not be part to assassinations. JrK said he

raised question because he was under terriffe pressure from advisers

(think he said intelligence people,but not positive) to okay a Castro

murdero sed he was resisting pressures... Dick thinks this may have

to do with the Guantanamo thing we been hearing about. Navy ?

Meeting was little after Il AM. First, RNG and IS waited in Fish

Room. Also, JFK sed something about setting up special group on

Cuba, tontake new look at whole Cuban thing from all points of view..

No detants- Diant say if group would be at wt of waere...

TOP

HH 53244

DocId: 32123500 Page 5

---

