# docid-32306897

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10037

RECORD_ SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 105-240357-6.7

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. SJ

DIRECTOR. FBI

DATE: 12/11/1975

PAGES: 14

SUBJECT:

OBA, ACCION CUBANA, MOYA, LAZARO ALBERTO RODRIGUEZ, ASSOC,

CUBAN EXILES, POLIT ACT, NEGOTIATE, DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

07/07/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

REFERRED TO INS, INC 2 LHM, MEMO, 3 ADMIN PAGES

DocId: 32306897

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

• JULY 1973 EDITION

GSA_FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVER

ENT

Memorandum

"Es.

¿DIRECTOR, FBI (105-240357)

SECRET

DATE:

DEC 1 1 1975

SAC, SAN JUAN (105-15003) (P)

DSCLASSIFIED BY SA& MACHISK

53m dope.

IT-L

SUBJECT: LAZARO ALBERTO RODRIGUEZ

ELA MOS NO OBJECTION TO

IS-CUBA

00: SJ

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/

ACLEASE OF CIA INFORMA MEE

IN THIS LOCUMENT. IM OTERI

Enclosed for the Bureau are five copiés of an

LHM dated and captioned as above with two copies of an

FD-376.

The LHM is being disseminated to 902nd Military

Intelligence Group, Homestead AFB, Florida; Office of Special

Investigations, Patrick Air Force Base, Florida; and locally

tọ U. S. Secret Service and Naval Investigative Service.

Instant letter and LuM are

Classiflea confidential

in order to protect SJ I-1, 2, 3 and 4 disclosure of which

could cause damage

§ the national security. #2il326

condits

Classified by

INFORMANTS

REC-115

Identity

S:J

I-1 is SJ 1614-PSI

S.J

T-2 is SJ 492-s

SJ.

T-3

is

SJ 1616-PSI

SJ T-4

• SJ 1616-PSI

5 - ENCLOSURE

Location EC-69

Instant File

05-24035z=6

Instant File

Instant File

(KU)

15 DEC 15 1975

Instant File

CON

cred

2y 6934

Exempt

From CDS, Categony ?

Date of declarification Indertnite

Bureau (Ened

2-

San Juan

JPL: maw

(4)

6 15923

FAKE

LiC AEN, ISS, Steite,

CIA: + 553 50-5764713

5010-110

56 FEB Bus U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Rand

381

DocId: 32306897

Page 2

& SHOWN.

99

---

## Page 3

"Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFFDENT

SJ 105-15003

VARANDELA

PR.

SECRET

ESTEVEZ. (SJ file 105-16189; Bureau

file 105-266071.1s currently under investigation for his

activities in connection with ORIANDe BOSCH's anti-castro

Cuban exile group Accion Cubana

taken credit in the past for

for bombings of

uban ction which has

Cuban embassies

P.R.

in 1974.

JOSE CALIXTO SANTIAGO

DES (SJ file 105-11871;

Bureau file 105-241431) was previously of operational interest

working in that capacity.

no de and tea more been estat a bat he is not currently

on 8/7/75, the records of the Police of Puerto Rico

(POPR), Office of Intelligence, were caused to be reviewed by

SA JAMES PATRICK LAFLIN. Records revealed no identifiable

information regarding subject.

By written communication the POPR formally

requested

that all records, documents or

information in any form which that agency

furnishes to the FBI be specifically exempt

from any disclosure whatsoever in regards

to the Freedom of Information Act, with

amendments, and the Privacy Act of 1974.

Accordingly, any agency subsequently receiving

this information is considered bound by this

request.

The following confidential sources, who are familiar

with Cuban exile activities in the san Juan area, were contacted

with negative results:

SJ 1592-PSI contacted on 9/29/75

by SA LAFLIN

SJ 1548-PSI contacted on 9/18/75

by SA LAFLIN

(fa)

SJ 775-S contacted on 10/16/75

by SA LAFLIN

SJ 859-PSI contacted on 10/28/75

by SA LAFLIN

SECRET

- 2 -

DocId: 32306897 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Juan, Puerto Rico

DEC 1 1 1975

SECRET

IAZARO ALBERTO RODRIGUEZ MOYA

on July 23, 1975, SJ I-I stated that the subject

was a good friend of Raul Varandela Estevez and that

Source further advised that he had seen Jose Calixto

Santiago Valdes and Raul Varandela Estevez in La Tacita Cafeteria,

in the vicinity of Roosevelt and De Diego Avenues, approximately

six months ago. Upon seeing source, santiago and varandela

became very nervous and left La Tacita Cafeteria a few minutes

after his arrival. According to source, santiago, a proven.

Cuban Intelligence Officer, knew that he, source,

was aware

of certain specifics relating to his covert operations for

the Cuban government. The source added varandela is also

likely to be associated with a Cuban Intelligence operation

in Puerto lice Source noted that Rodriguez was a member of

AECLASSIFED BY SRS MAC/KER

05. 4: 30-94

Souross those identities

are consonia? boreda have

furnished reliable infor-

mation in the past except

where otherwise noted.

classified by 6934

Exemp

- +

from ADS.

, category 2

Date

declasstrication Indefinite

ALI,

DACI

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the 'FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is

loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not

to be

distributed outside your agency.

UT CONTAINED

LASSIFIED

SHOWN

1776-1976

105-240357

ENCLOSURE

"SECRET

DocId: 32306897

Page 4

---

## Page 5

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

@OPTIONAL, FORN NO. 10

JULY 1973 EDITION

EAGSA, FPMR 141 CFRI 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-240357)

FROM

: SAC, SAN JUAN (105-15003) (C)

SUBJECT: LAZARO ALBERTO RODRIGUEZ

MOXA

IS-CUBA

Dip

DATE: APR 1 6 1976

ALL INFORMATION COUMA NET

HERE DI

EXCD 2.00 2 360N

ODERNASO

ReSJlet and LHM to Bureau, 12/11/75.

Enclosed for the Bureau are five copies of an LHM

Cuch, dated and captioned as above with ID 376 attached.

The LHM is being disseminated to 902 Military

Intelligence Group, Homestead Air Force Base, Florida; and

locally to U. S. Secret Service and Naval Investigative

Service.

56685

1c, d.

Instant LHM is classified CONFIDENTIAL in order

to protect information furnished by SJ T-1 aisclosure of U

which could cause damage to the nattonal security.

INFORMANTS:

The following confidential sources who are

familiar with Cuban exile activities

in the San Juan area

were contacted with negative results:

SOURCE

1618-PS U1)

SJ

1622-PSI

SJ

1462-S

1655-PSI

DATE

CONTACTING AGENT

1/19/76

ERNESTO PATINO

1/21/76

JAMES PATRICK LAFLIN

1/26/76

PATINO

2/26/76

PATINO

2/27RE8-85 /05

PATINO

In tien at the fact that subject has been

2357-1

u11

identified and no derogatory information developed to

indicate that subject was involved in any anti Castro

antosul this case is being placed in a closed

subversive activities or a member of Accion Cubana (AC)

status.

- Bureau (Enc. 5) (RM)

дрітася

ESTATEK

1

- San Juan

Classified

C

16 APR 19 1976

JPL:IV

Declass?

4/83

(3)

751

#24326

JUL 1_4 1976

Buy U:S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan.

SECRET

DOERCI

400

DocId: 32306897

Page 5

---

## Page 6

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LAZARO ALBERTO RODRIGUEZ MOYA

ISECRET

On October 3, 1975SJ I-4 stated that

subject

may be identical to alberte Rodriguez.

who owns a school of

music on Roosevelt Avenue and who also owns the School of

Languages

P.R.

On October 6, 1975, a review of the records of

the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), San Juan,

Puerto Rico, reflected subject to have INS file #A12891022.

The file revealed subject was born on April 27, 1934, in

Santo Domingo, Cuba, he is 5'10" tall, has black eyes and

black hair.

Rodriguez entered the United States in Miami,

Florida, on February 17, 1962.

Instant file reflected the following trips outside

the United States made by the subject:..

June, 1966 for three months duration

through Central and South America

Jangary, 1973,, for one month duration

through venezuela, Santo Domingo, Jamaica

and Costa Rico

Thou into those days ta spain

In February, 1975, Rodriguez listed his residence

as Guatemala #795 Las Americas, Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico,

and employment as International Language Center, F. D. Roosevelt

#301, Hato Rey, Puerto Rico.

GONFIDENT TAL 6

- 3 -

SECRET

DocId: 32306897 Page 6

---

