# docid-32339551

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90150-10047

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 64-42454-86

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: MM

TITLE:

DATE: 05/03/1965

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

ANTULIO RAMIREZ ORTIZ

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/19/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32339551 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kenngly Assassination Records Collectip Act af 1992 444 USe 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, Mlam1 (105-3993)

pretor, T8: 461-12154) 86

ANTULIO RAMIREZ ORTIZ, aka

FUGITIVE

ITSA; IS - CUBA

1 00: MIAMI

5/3/65

Prepare and forward to the Bureau a letterhead

menorandun suitable for dissemination to Legat, Bern. In

the senorandun set forth a succinct case history and vivid

physical description Including fingerprint classification,

FBI number and citizenship status. Also forward with the

letterhead memorandum recent likeness photograph of the

trout rollo sources.

Request in your transuittal letter Legat, Bers,

through reliable sources, remain alert to any infornation

the Swiss have concerning the fugitive.

1 - Hashington Field (105-41983)

1 - Legat, Bern - Enc.

I - Foreign Liaison Unit (route through for review)

REVIEWED BY FIFK TASK FORGE

ON

15199 dat

DE RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAtONAL ORtiz commandeered an aircraft and subsequently flew to-

Cuba.

Subsequent investigation

determined Ortiz was in Cuba during 1964 and endeavored to

obtain a repatriation loan so he could return to the United States..

Legat,

Bern being alerted as the Swiss are currently representing.

American interest in Cuba with whom the United States Government

does not have diplomatic relations at this time.

Legat, Bern will

be requested to remain alert to information concerning the fugitive.

??!!'

• (7)

Tolson

Pohnont

Mishr.

'illahon

•ontud .

fall

Gale

Rosen -

Sullivan:

Tavel

Trolter.

Tele. Room -

Holmes

64 MA

MAILED 8

МАЇ 1 - 1905

COMM-FBI

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32339551

Page 2

---

