# docid-32335355

## Page 1

Released under the John F, Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aöt of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotels

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/19/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90123-10021

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-12262-2X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: NY

TITLE:

DATE: 08/11/1941

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

PAUL M. RAIGORODSKY

PAUL RAIGORODSKY

" DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOS

, COMMENTS: LET, REFERRED TO DOS

v9.1

DocId: 32335355 Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 191 USC 2107 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

JAO :ESK

200-12888

Aagest 12, 1091

ALL INTON

HERSIN IS

EXCEPT

orde

SE

Apatstant Directes 1.

Hew Tonito

Now Jost

CONTAINED

LASSIFIED

SHOWN

Deer

$128

DonnelLey

Re: PAUL W. RAIGOROSSAL

Pales, Olishona;

JFK

Bar, Tolson

IS-E. A. Tamm

Mir. Close

Mr. Forworth

Air. @lavin

Mar. Nicho is te

Mr. Resen

Mr. Carson

• Mr. Drayton

Mr. Quinn Tamm

Mar. Mondon

eir. Tracy

Miss Ganda

She 022100 e2 the Atniniotraton of limport Control rocently

furnthod the Barena vits correspontoneo fron. the Department of Btate,

of which are

ettached hereto, Jadloating that subjeat Ralgorodaig

has contompleted doltvosing plane, teeinieal infornation and namasturlag

richie for the prodaotion of high qualaty arlesten gasolioe to the

Sorles Unlon pad

: has contacted the Departaent of State on severst

accastons in

this

rogard with the vow to obteining.an empors licence,

Bed cane bes

beon refaced is each insisace dae to the nosal embargo

ngolnst foriet: Bussta at

the t130e

16 1s soquested

• thee He.

Dearborne of the loras Company

and the Gasoling Prodsata Coraay, Fow Tork City, For Toris, and

Jobnoon, "Te,

Vico Procident of the h. V. Rolloss Cempany,

326-Drosdwy, Bou

Fork City. How Tork, be Interviewed for any addl-.

sional inforistion they may have rolative to the boat rocent proposed

activlies of nubjeet Raigeroddly concerning the exportation of thin

Inforation

to tho Sorted Unfone

Too Weahlngton Told Office will nate appropriate tagiries

the Departinent ol State to

dotorio whethor Tarl M.

Rafgorodsic)

baa son baen isaaed

an expor% Mcmso to furniah this Intorantion to

Sae Sortes Inton.

4$ being notod that

thie country 10 voy furnishing

a1d to tho Gories Union In 1te light agalnot Comany sal

Sherefore

there being s socolbility that an a port lleense my have

The Bew Jort 028ice should hold the Inmotigation fo

incret mapsbeysnoe antil the above roonested intonation e

Kron the State Department by the Weshington Fiold unsics.

MAD DE

D

AUG 11 1941

I Cataly?

p. M

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U, S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

a COPIES DESTROYED 5/20/54116

DocId: 32335355

Page 2

---

