# docid-32299876

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10226-10156

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-3RD NR 2637

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, SF

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/15/1969

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, CLUB MEETING, CONCORD, CA,

AFFIDAVIT, POSSIBLE MEETING, CERRITO, JOSEPH

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32299876

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

4/15/69

AIRIEL

AIR MAIL - REGISTERED

92-3434-56/

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3434) (92-6054)

TROM: SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (92-124) (92-593)(P)

JOSEPH CERRITO, aka.

00: San Francisco

CLA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

00: New York

Re San Francisco airtel to the Bureau, 3/14/69, and San Francisco

telcalls to the Bureau, 4/14/69 and 4/15/69•

Set forth hereafter are the results of contacts with SP-2650-C-TE

on 4/20/69 and 4/14/69-

As previously pointed out, the situation created, including the proposed

execution of affidavits by ST-2550-C-TE and others, appears to

be a test of the informant and others to determine their loyalty

tO CERRITO.

A check of agent personnel, San Francisco Office, revealo no

such contact as referred to in the following informant contacts..

This matter will be closely followed by the San Francisco Office

and the Bureau kept advised.

6 - Вители (AN-RM)

(3 - 92-3434)

(3 - 92-6054)

2 -

San Francisco

(1 - 92-124)

(2 - 92-593)

CNH: jab

(8)

92.6054

NOT RECORDED

88

APR 81 1969

56 APR 2 5 1969

DocId: 32299876

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SF 2550-0-TE furnished the following information to SA RUDOLPH H.

MANCINI on 4/10/69:

On 4/9/69 he took his wife to his cousin's home in, Concord, Cal-

¡fornia, to attend a club meeting during which time he had a short con-

versation with ROSE CAMARATA, Wife Of ALEX CAMARATA, who also attended

the meeting.

ROSE said that

ner mother, JENNIE MISURACA, had arrived

from Florida and that she had brought some "letters" fron "DADDY JOHN"

(JOHN MISURACA) one of which was for the informant.

She said that ALEX,

who also received one of the "letters"

• vas supposed to contact informant

to give it to him; however, he wants nothing to do with the "letters"

and refuses to even talk about them.

ROSE explained that when AlEX re-

fused to handle the letters, she took them to ANGIE GREEN, the daughter

of JOHN and JENNIE MISURACA, in Modesto, California, and that MANNY FIGLIA

now has the informant's letter.

Informant attempted to ascertain from ROSE CAMARATA what was contained

in the "letters"

and why ALEX was so upset about them; however, due to the

circumstances he had to depart and he was unable to obtain additional infor

mation. Informant added that he would contact MANNY FIGLIA in regards to

the

for him from JOHN MISURACA.

SF 2550-C-TE furnished the following

information to SA RUDOLPH H. MANCINI

on 4/14/69:

On. 4/13/69 he contacted MANNY FIGLIA at san Jose, California. After

a few minutes of idle conversation, he said that ROSE CAMARATA had advised

him JORN MI SURACA had

sent him a "letter"

or "message" which he (FIGLIA)

now has. FIGLIA then took an envelope from his pocket, handed it to the

informant and said, "Here it is. I think it is something your Sapposed

sign". Informant noted the envelope to

have been opened and to contain

the name of JOHN J: ARDIZZONE, Attorney at Law, 870 North Firit Street,

Sanj Jose, California, in the upper left hand corner.

He removed the con-

tents noting it to be three copies of an Affidavit

with a place for his

signature

and a notary seal at the bottom.

He began to read the document

at which tire he heard MANY say, as if he were talking to himself, "I did

not want JoE to do this. It's

only more trouble".

it into his pocket with the envelope and said,

look it over again".

MANY immediately replied,

"Sure, thats OK, take

with you"

and made no suggestion that the infomant sign the document at

that time.

Informant asked FIGLIA if the affadavit was sent to him by

JOHN MI SURACA and

he rather evaded the question by saying,

"Ele knows all

about it".

At this time, informant was of

the opinion that JOHN MISURACA

approved as him signing the document.

FIGLIA then related that he had

relay to ATEX CAMARATA,

2

DocId: 32299876

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F: Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Ho

DATE: 11-14-2017

CANARATA but to contact nim

personally "right away"

FIGLIA said infor-

mant should tell ALEX to tell JOHN MISURACA that if he is ever questioned

in the future by anyone regarding JOHN ARDIZZONE, he should not say that

ARDIZZONE is not know to him because ARDIZZONE feels that someone took

picture as he was leaving JOHN MISURACA's residence.

his

Informant did not question FIGLIA as

to when the above incident might

have occurred; however, he surmised

that it was in the recent past during

which time ARDIZZONE took copies of the affadavits back to JOHN MI SURACA

for his approval and,, perhaps, to induce him to sign one.

ANGIE GREEN, were present.. As they were all seated

around a table in

conversation, ROSE CAMARATA asked informant if he had contacted MANNY FIG-

LIA. Informant said he had and withdrew the envelope containing the three

affadavits from his pocket.

He attempted to hand the affadavits to ALEX

stating,

"Did you get one like this". ALEX immediately threw up his hands.

"I don't even want to look at it or to havé

anything to do.with it. I

have already talked to MANNY about it".

Informant then said,

"Well, DADDY

wants us to sign, dosen thhe"

• ALEX, ROSE, JENNIE and ANGIE all

replied together that this was not so, that JOHN MISURACA does not want

the documents to be signed or to have anything to do with them.

Informant was somewhat surprised at this because, although FIGLIA idia

not make any statements in

this regard, he had

assumed from FIGLIA that

the signing of the affadavit had JOHN

MISURACA's approval.

Informant then related to AIX and others present that FIGLIA wanted

ALEX to relay a messare from FIGLIA about JOHN ARDIZZONE.

Informant re-

lated his conversation with FIGLIA stating that ALEX should irmediately

communicate with JOHN MISURACA to warn him not to deny knowing JOHN ARDIZZ-

ONE if he is ever questioned as ARDIZZONE told FIGLIA that he believes he

photographed leaving his residence in Florida. now can he say he

Informant said that

JENNIE MISURACA, Wife Of JOHN MISURACA,.

then said,

doesn know him, he was just there".

Informant advised that this comment

confirmed that JOHN ARDIZZONE apparently had made a recent trip to Tampa,

Florida, to visit JOHN MISURACA.

Informant made available a copy of the Affadavit furnished to him by

MANNY FIGLIA previously referred to which states,

in part, that he had been

contacted by two individuals, one of whom identified himself as an

agent

of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, at which time an offer was made

to

him to "testify against JOE CERRiTO" in exchange for $10,000. He is quite

certain that ALEX CAMARATA also received a

exchange for $10, 000t he hus ha

no opportunity to observe the wording tat it might have contained. He is

not certain but he believes, that ANGELO GIAMMONA Of Modesto,

California,

might have also received such a document for signing inasmuch as ROSE orie-

inally took the affadavit or affadavits to ANGIE GREEN in Modesto for del-

ivery. to FIGLIA, possibly by ANGELO GIAMIONA, when ALEX refused to have any

thing to do with the matter.

DocId: 32299876

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 No

DATE: 11-14-2017

Informant advised that he still plans not to sign the affadavit

under any circumstances.

Now that he has learned that JOHN MI SURACA

does not approve of signing the document, and ALEX CAMARATA wants noth-

ing to do with it, he feels he is in a good position to also refuse to

sign it.

Fie said he till, of course, have to contact FIGLIA regarding

signing

the document in the near future.. He said that instead of re-

fusing to sign the affadavit outright to FIGLIA, he. will strongly point

out to FIGLIA that he (FIGLIA) left him with the

impression that

JOHN

MI SURACA had approved signing the affadadavit; however, he obtained

different impression from ALEX CAMARATA and others.

Informant said he

will tell FIGLIA that he wants to do everything possible to help "JOE"

but he wants FIGLIA to arrange a personal contact with JOE CERRITO

he may obtain CERRITO's personal

assurance that he want's informant to

sign the affadavit. Informant advised that he is certain that FIGLIA

will not arrange a personal contact for informant and CERRITO as CERRITO

apparently is not agreein

to any contact with other LCN members at this

time•

Informant advised, of course, that at no time has he been contacted

by anyone who offered him $10,000 to "testify against JOE CERRITO".

Inf-

ormant added that the above affadavit appears to be an attempt by CERRITO

to use him.

DocId: 32299876 Page 5

---

