# docid-32336997

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90136-10040

HQ

105-70973-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ARMY INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY COMMAND

FROM:

AISC

TO :

TITLE:

DATE:

01/29/1959

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection bet. of

1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 55510 Date:

12-12-2017

WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF AISC

COMMENTS:

MEMO, REFERRED TO AISC

v9.1

HW 55510 DocId:32336997 Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

wp:"/0013 DIv/52550/2-

Chias, Hootora Daviados

Chias, Socurity Division

The d.

2.9.59

chief, Uparationo Br/Collaction

0102020

EPIDINIC (G) Informational heport (c)

JAN 2 9 1959

CONTAINES

12A1

Lo The infomacion contained here in was obtained by keliuc (c) on

22 January 1258 in o poraonal discussion with rall Mounder tong

Is National, Comandarte (Major) segundo Prate Metlaul DI Secer

(SINE), Capera Robal Parces in Cubas

so" Age 33, entered Us Any at are of 15, derved in 8ded 1B Bit so

Europe during korld far II.

Has been with the hobode for ll nontabo

Havana to attend the Castro. demonstration and attond tha trials In litte

sommander al the City at Clonfuegos, Las Villas.

private parson.

Intends to onter buciness,

Will leave any although ta hoo

been urged to accept a command..

an unny nan oan not spook se he dealroo co

will continue to speak to tho people as a free citiaon plas to enter busteoco.

United States Ambassador Snith so a thieving SOB as ana pors

other americans presently In Cuba.

Smith made five million dollaro on ralophoe

and must ecalse The US had batter shut up over the war crininals or they

shal. lose Guva'as a trimd.

There are others who would appreciate Cuben

fronds ip, thère are twu lande of Mericans and half of them are ruraare

profiterdo: Cubans vill castrabe every crooked buginege man caught, no attor

who the arco

Castro is a mise can who la lasuing warnings sor

thooe cho

do not hece will be sorry latero.

vastro repeate himsclf but for ephadio not

for lack of worde.

MAC/GA

JFK

Tire casino's orticli (ti canuary 59 inaue) 10 a stonderto 110.

Raporters, ucept it

ath me. and

there,

learned their naus in a drunken,

capor (rus uttata adi rostituteo, ume of the US kinbaacy people are aso

erament."

chat?d in

activities.

a: rebel soluer cirl one month agoo

expacta a

Xavie

no'trole from Ul Governasat ever his Quersio

22

DATE /0

20

torran 1e a vocileroud, radical.

Full of fury

victory sue the Quidation ot the publie.

das the leadership

qualities dan

dis wrather croud him.

ie huge them and.

calia

110, light brown hals.

Wearg

light wocken

imir with a mold atar on each alde of the collar.

Armed

with di

i cold abo

male is abortive l ot two inches slicht, light

brown

Ji potentially.

as it uner the prosent situation.

NOT RECORDED

14 FEB 1B 1959

"AGENCY

REQ.

DATE

NG A

--52

NW 55510

DooId: 32336997

Page 2

---

## Page 3

JAN: 11159

IPIDAMNC (C) Informationas Napost (0)

Lo a comandando ha vao 11 charão o l silE colema la the clouruagoo arado

Taught intentry undo bactica, opuration and aintonance of rospons end

Allegaily wad liled by inic pursonel aid highly rompactod for

his braves o

3o Addition inconsation la containod in FbI Filo No 105- 3237-

¿o lo distribation rade do ful of the abore information securtes

D1via100 ney pass do fuI if doened adulogbleo

CHARLES J. DENHOLM

Ondef, Colection Division

SECRE

174 55510

DocId: 32336997 Page 3

---

