# docid-32309668

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10300-10034

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-5701-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CREAMER, JOHN J. JR.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/21/1963

11

APR, FAUGNO, ARMAND, PERSONAL HISTORY, BKG, REL,

EMP, CRIMINAL ACT, KONIGSBERG, HAROLD

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45927

DocId: 32309668

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ev. 5-1-5

REPORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

ARMANS FAUGNO, aka

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

DATE

1/21/63

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOL

11/1/62 - 1/11/63

REPORT MADE BY

JOHN J. CREAMER, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

adl

REFERENCES:

Report of SA JOHN J. CREAMER, JR., dated 10/31/62,

at Newark.

Newark letter to New York, dated 12/21/62 (inter-

office).

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU (2)

Two copies of letterhead memo reflecting character-

ization of informants used in this report.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Sources

NK T-1 is NK 2181-C

NK T-2 1s PCI

OTHER 4

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

2

SPIN MAGENT

Bureau

(92-5701) (Бne8)

-

USA, Newark

New

York

- Newark (92-843)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW S 1-117

92-15701+6

10 JAN 23 1963

4-5-65-408

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

50 FEB 151963

By

NW 45927 DocId:32309668 Page 2

Notations

---

## Page 3

UNI

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

NK

92-843

STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Newark, New Jersey

January 21, 1968

'ICE

ARMAND FAUGNO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Report of Special Agent John J. Creamer,

Jr., dated

and captioned as above at Newark.

CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

NK T-1 is an individual who is familiar with the

gambling and shylocking operations in the Hudson County, New

Jersey area.

NK T-? is a convicted thief who is familiar with

gambling and shylocking activities in the Hudson County,

New Jersey area.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

It is

the property of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is

loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside. your agency.

HW 15927

DocId: 32309668 Page 3

---

