# docid-32305270

## Page 1

JFK. Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10287-10400

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

97-4474-285

Released under the John

". Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Aet of

1992

¡44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-28-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: COTTER, R. D.

TO: SULLIVAN, W. C.

TITLE:

DATE: 04/07/1966

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, ASSOC, RAID, CUBA, OBA, INDICTMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LTR, LHM

v9.1

NN 54027

DooId: 32305270

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONTENTIAL

- Mr. DeLoach

Mr.

Mohr

iT .

Wick

Mr . Rosen

- Mr.

Sullivan

1 - Liaison

April 11, 1960

EX LIAISON

REC- 16

ST-108

97-4474-28

Mr.

Cotter

1

- Mr: Nasca

Honorable Marvin Watson

Special Assistant to the President

The White House

PeRSONALLy DeLIVeReD

wHiTe

Mashington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Watson:

chested hebrate mis Samar

SA ReBRIN

Declassify ov:

GADR Ya/s HouSE, BY 411166

There is attached a memorandun dated April 11,

1966, concerning the Moviniento Insurreccional de

Recuperacion Revolucionaria, an anti-Castro organization,

which contains information which may be of interest to

the President.

You will note in the monorandum that one of

NP

our informants has been

raid over. Cube.

approached to participate in aco

фіа)

This natter has been

discussed with a

repposentative of the Internal Security Division of the

Departmont of Justice and it is contemplated that the

Jonos to be used in the fold will be seized but that no

Frosts will bo made AU

caN 1523

TERRIN

ATT. THE

CLASS IRTED

HITTON CONTATIED

Nou vill be kept apprised of any additional

itinent envelopuonts

The infomation in the attached

DOR GOONY

Sincerely yours,

Cotter to Sullivan, dated 4-3-66,

intento Insurreccional de Recuperacion

Lied "Secret" since unauthorized disclosure of

serious

danage to national defense interests by

CONPIDENTIAT

HH 54027 Do0Id:32305270

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TON CONTAINET

CNCLASSIRIED

SHOW

HERRIN

OTHERNI SE

BJA

14/19/85

Classified

Declassity on

16180m.

Del bach

Mohn

Casper

Pal anan

Conrad

Felt

Gole

Rosen

Tavel

Trotter

Tale. Boom

Haines.

Candy

CONT

DENTIAL

1 - Mr. DeLoach

- Mr. Mohr

1 - Mr. WicK

April 11, 1966

1 - Mr. Rosen

- Mr. Sullivan

MOVINI ENTO INSURRECCIONAL DIS

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

Liaison

Mr. Cotter

1

- Mr. Nasca

The Movimiento Insurreccional de Recuperacion

Revolucionaria is a militant anti-Castro organization in

Miant, Florida, headed by Orlando Bosch Avila.

Recently, Bosch propositioned one of our

informants to serve as a pilot on a bombing raid on

Nuevitas, a sugar exporting town on the north coast of

Camáguey, Cuba:

The plan calls for the informant on the

day of the raid to fly a rented plano from Miami to

Marathon, Florida, which will be the point of departure

for the attack on Cuba. Upon arrival, the inforuant will

comporarty Leave the plane, to to baration and recurn to

the plane after a given period of tine. In the interim,

four bombs and a Cuban bombardier will be placed aboard

the plane.

Bosch explained that the bonbs and the

bombardier will be transported by car from Mlani to

Marathon and he indicated that he would be among those

CHUN ON

transporting the bonbe. (Ku)

This matter has been discussed with Bureau of

Custons representatives in Miami and arzangements are being

worked out so that Customs and Border Patrol representatives

at an appropriate time will establish a roadblock to intercept

the car transporting the bombs, thus thwarting the raid and

affording protection to our infornant, who is in a vulnerable

97-4474

VEN: bjs, (13)

See memorandun Cotter

to Sullivan,

dated 4-8-66,

captioned

as above, prepared by ViNibjs.

Original to AG, Xerox copies to White House,

Deputy

and AAG Yeagley.

Classified "Secret" since nauthorized disclosure

of data could cause serious damage to national defense intere

by jeopardizing valuable

informant of continuing

DECLASSIT 5668 DUNGAT

• COROUS

Are ud from automat!

(SER)

VEGE

townsreding-and

CONPIXENTIAT

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

ENCLOSURE

97-4474

HH 54027 DocId: 32305270 Page 3

---

## Page 4

3010-106

N4/ 0862 PONION

GIA GEN LEG NO: 27

UNITED STATES GOV NMENT

Memorandum

: Mx. W. C. Sullivan

CORS

FROM:

• Mr. R. D. Cotter

1

- Mr •

De ach

BESSE

Mr. Monr

- Mr. Wick

DATE, April 7, 1966

1

- Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Cotter

Mr. T. J. Smith

- Mr. Nasca

Tolson

Molut

Wick

Casper

Calloti an -

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sulliven

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Ganay

SUBJECTE

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

NATION CONTATINED

CLASSTDLED

Д 6

R

MIRR is militant Miami,

Florida, anti-Castro organi-

zation headed by Orlando Bosch Avila, which has been involved

in several raids against Cuba, Bosch is under indictment in

two separate federal offenses; one is an FBI case involving

extortion and the other is a Customs case involving illegal

exportation of arms.

SARTAINCI

OADR 919/95

Classifiec

Declass

013/10/

Miami Office has now advised that Bosch has

propositioned MM 639-S (Howard Davis, valuable Miami informant

who is pilot) to serve as pilot on bombing raid against Cuban

sugar exporting town in near future. Plan calls for informant

on day of raid to fly rented plane from Miami to Marathon, Florida,

which will serve as the point of departure for raid. Upon arrival,

informant is to leave plane temporarily and go into Marathon and

return to plane after given period of time.

In interim, four

bombs and Cuban bombardier will be placed aboard. Bosch explained

that bombs and bombardier will be transported by car to Marathon

fron Miami, indicated he would be among those transporting bombs

and identified car to be used.

confidant of Jose "Pepin" Bosch, head of Bacardi Rum Company, has

paid some of informant's expenses, possibility exists Bosch is

financial backer of plan. Knowledge of raid details are limited

to Orlando Bosch, three associates and informant.

to prianang are extremely surveillance-conscious. (%)(U)

Those involved

Facts suggest possible violation of Title 1o

Section 960, U. S. Code (Organizing an Expedition). However,

Miami Office feels prosecution would be impossible without

exposing informant who is in an extremely vulnerable position.

in order to protect intormant, Miami feels it would be necessary

to arrange for seizure of bombs prior to their delivery to

Marathon and that an appropriate roadblock in vicinity of Marathon,

manned by Customs and Border Patrol, which is frequently implementedu

would achieve the desired results, Miami has

with Customs locally.]

sulliter

discussed this matter

REC- 16 97

Cottono

97-4474

4 7 28

ST

4474

VEL: 03S

AGAT OH NE

CONTINUED - OVER

5FK)

APR 13 1966

НН 54027D00Id: Do0Id:32305270

Page: 4

---

