# docid-32321683

## Page 1

Reteased Wuer the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleation Act Of 1992 149 090 210 hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10377-10341

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-3526

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO : WMFO

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/22/1997

4

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/05/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32321683

271

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

(12/31/1995) *

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

376

Precedence:

•UMEO

New York

Boston

Miami

Chicago

Los Angeles

DEADLINE

08/15/1997

Date: 07/22/1997

Attn: Cecilia Hoffman

Attn: Eileen Rawlinson

Attn: Margaret B. Munroe

Attn: Deborah Robertson

Attn: Anne P. Trecek

Attn: Claudette Choquette

From:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

JFK Task Force, Rm. 11144

Contact:

Brian J. Fields, Ext. 0583

Approved By: Keeley Carol I CLK/Bt

Drafted By: Fields Brian I Bff

Case ID #: 62-HQ-1029205 (Pending)

Title: John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (the Act)

Synopsis: The Act established the Assassination Records Review

Board (ARRB) to oversee the governments' production and

compliance with the Act.

The ARRB reviews the proposed

postponements in documents

sent by each agency to the National

Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and decides what

postponements the Act allows or opens the document in full.

The

ARRB's responsibilities include having agencies search other

subjects and areas to find additional material not already

identified as assassination records.

ARRB by the Act also limited the time for their duties to be

accomplished.

The ARRB must complete their tasks by September

With this deadline in mind, the ARRB sent a letter

requesting addittonal information: 6QF-#Q-1029265=3526

Enclosures: ARRB letter requesting material.

Details: On July 1, 1997, the ARRB sent a letter to the FBI

setting forth a formal request to receive and review additional

records.

The ARRB's goal is to research every possible subject

that may have a bearing on assassination theories and to assure

Congress and the American public that all was done to accomplish

the intentions of the Act.

Requested offices should conduct a search for the

listed items.. If offices are aware of any administrative records

they may have maintained outside the normal index system, they

should include those areas in the search.

if any documents

related to the matters are found, please

forward the documents to

the JFK Task Force.

Walking papersditichen

DocId: 32321683

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

To: WMFO From:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

Re: 62-HQ-1029205, 07/22/1997

Pursuant to the Act, any material categorized as an

assassination record must be sent to the NARA in its original

form.

The Act established the process of handling the documents

and the FBI must follow the Act. If offices believe they need a

copy, they should copy the document or material before sending

the JFK Task Force.

Please conduct a search for the 77 files listed for

each field office and forward results of search to include

captions of all files including those Joseph P.

Kennedy, St. is

referenced in to FBIHQ, JFK Task Force, Attention: Brian J.

Fields, Room 11144.

If you have any questions, please call Brian J. Fields

at (202) 324-0583.

C

2

DocId: 32321683

Page

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• TO:

Re :

WMFO From:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

62-HQ-1029205, 07/22/1997

LEAD (s) :

Set Lead 1:

WMFO

AT WMEO

Conduct a

search of your office for main files and

references on Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr. Please list all files and

references and include subject of see reference files.

Do not

send other material at this time.

Forward Washington Field

Office file 77-55753 to FBIHQ, JFK Task Force, Attention: Brian

J. Fields, Room 11144.

The results should be received at FBIHe

no later

•than C.O.B. 08/15/97.

Set Lead 2:

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK

Conduct a

search of your office for main files and

references

on Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr.

Please list all files and

references and include subject of see reference files.

send other material at this

Forward New York Field Office

file 77-21786 to JFK Task Force, Attention: Brian J. Fields, Room

The results should be received at FBIHO no later than

C.0.B. 08/15/97.

Set Lead 3:

BOSTON

AT BOSTON

Conduct a search of your office for main files and

references on Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr.

Please list all files and

references

and include

subject of see reierence files. Do not

send other material at this time.

Forward Boston Field Office

file 77-7611 to FBIHQ,

JFK Task Force,

Attention: Brian J.

Fields, Room 11144.

The results should be received at FBIHO no

later than C.o.B.

08/15/97.

Set Lead 4:

MIAMI

AT MIAMI

3

DocId: 32321683 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TO :

WMFO From:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

Re: 62-HQ-1029205, 07/22/1997

Conduct a search of your office for main files and

references on Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr. Please list all files and

references and include subject of see reference files.

Do not

send other material at this time. Forward Miami Field Office

IIle 77-4136 to FBIHQ, JFK Task Force, Attention: Brian J.

Fields, Room 11144.

The results should be received at FBIHO no

later than C.O.B. 08/15/97.

Set Lead 5:

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO

Conduct a search of your office for main files and

references on Joseph P. Kennedy, SI.

Please list all files and

references and include

send other material at this time. Forward Chicago Field Office

File 77-8327 to FBIHQ, JFK Task Force,

Attention: Brian J.

Fields, Room 11144.

The results should be received at FBiHO no

later than C.O.B. 08/15/97.

Set Lead 6:

LOS ANGELES

AT LOS ANGELES

Conduct a search of your office for main files and

references on Joseph P. Kennedy, SI. Please list all files and

references and include subject of see reference files. Do not

send other material at this time.

Forward Los Angeles Field

Office file 77-7781 to FBIHQ, JFK Task Force, Attention: Brian J.

Fields, Room 11144.

The results should be received at FBIHQ no

later than C.O.B. 08/15/97.

- Carol L. Keeley, Room 11144

1

- LuAnn

Wilkins, Room 11144

1 -

Brian J. Fields, Room 11144

4

DocId: 32321683

Page 5

---

