# docid-32323904

## Page 1

kelerset unter the Fon P. Kennedy Assassination Reeords Colleetien 46t 01-1992 +14 156-2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90022-10001

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 62-9-12-222

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/01/1961

3

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SAM CAMPISI

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

11/18/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

DodId: 32323904

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Rècords Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 T

Hotel. -

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 94- 55A-SU:

¡for two,

ficket was from Dallas to Chicago f= aboard chair car.

Train arrived 9 Al, Chicago, IlL', CIVELLO and wife met

by white nale and white female later identified as

and Mrs.

ZACHARIA, CIVELLO's sister and brother-in-

Taw The four

Arcus dividuals departed Dearbora Station in

Chicago in ZACHARIA's 1960 white over blue Cadillac,

1961 Illinois license 52 787. Surveillance turned over

to Chicago agents.

On 4/25/61, DL- 99-C advised one of the bases

of operation for gambling activities among the Italian

element in Dallas is located at Radio Sam's Appliance

3011 Ross Avenue.

Co individuals of Italian extraction who are involved

He furnished the following names

in taking and/or collecting gambling bets:

Dabbas,

SAM

DOMONACO, owner of Radio Sam's Appliance Co.

JOE-COLLETTA, who operates a liquor store at

corner of

and Routh Stores.

DaLLasTeras

and McKinney.

TERRANE, MA rates RosE Cafe, Lemmon"

operator of Gulf Service Station,

2701 Ross

Avenue.

Texas

JOE and

SAM, SAMPISI

operators of Egyptian

Lounge,

5616 Mockingbird. Dalhas, Teras

JOHNNY RAGNA -

ANGELO STANZINI DaLLaS Team

BUSTER CALVAERO,: Owner Texas Poultry and Egg

Company,

1807 Chestnut.

• DaLLas, Taxas

JOHNNY ROSS PATRONO DaLLaS Texas.

Informant stated JOICALSAapd (FNU) VINCINI

meet every morning at Merchants' State Bank, 5217 Ross

Irom 8:30 to 9AM where they take bets on any type of

ganbling activity.

Dahlas, Tejas

He advised that this group has tried for 15

to get a "foothold" with

city officials whereby they

could operate.

he said prior to 15 years ago the policy

racket was very lucretive for the group.

He stated

"FRITA RECHINBERG"' is the

number 1 lay-off man for the

Italian gamblers and through RECHENBERG's connection with

Tatas

DocId: 32323904 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

- DL 94- 55A-SUB

Taras

DI. 105cC said PETER

-cent residence

in Dallas and his operatoe of

the leopolitan

Dallas was for one job

Bakery in

only, that being a bookie operation.

He said PELLEGRINO had

a false oven Installed in his

bakery which would have held telephones and other material

used in the bookie operation.

He said PELLEGRINO was

forced to leave Dallas without success due to the constant

police pressure, primarily from

Capt. W.

P. GANNAWAY's

squad (Special Services Bureau.

Informant cautioned agent by stating there are

numerous Italians in Dallas wio have close personal

friends in various sections of the Dallas PD. He stated

that in this way the Italian group is able to learn many

things through these various sources, some of whom do not

realize information concerning law enforcement activities

is being passed to those involved in illegal activities.

Information has been received from various

sources throughout this investigation that the Egyptian

Lounge serves as & meeting place for local Italian hoodlums,

gamblers and other police characters.. Meetings take

place in a back room of the restaurant and one of the

CAMPISI brothers will always serve as a lookout in the

dining area of the restaurant.

The CAMPISIs reportedly

have a buzzer systen rigged to immediately notify anyone

in the back room when police officers come into the

restaurant.

The Dallas Office is concentrating efforts toward

the use of extraordinary and confidential investigative

techniques through surveillances and surveys in the

following places:

Egyptian Lounge, Airway Liquor Store,

I. & S Used Car Loti, Mesquite, Texas.

The above places have been described in

previous communications.

Re:

GARY DEAN BARRON,

AR (DL. 92-291)

aka.

BARRON WaS

arrested by the Dallas PD

for investigation of burglary and robbery on 4/27/61

at 515 N. Lancaster, Apt. D,

Dallas, Texas.

BILLIE

YVONNE COLEMAN was arrested with him and charged in

DocId: 32323904

Page 3

---

