# docid-32198856

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10272-10091

RECORD SERIES: MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 89-35-88

Released

under the John

. Kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :NW 53025 Date:

05-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/29/1963

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 62-109060-1067

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

04/02/1996

STATUS

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

1N 33025

Doc1d: 32198856

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-FD-38 (Rov. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

11/29/63

Transmit the following in

TELETYPE

Via

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

URGENT

SECRET

(5668560/GCL-S 2T/95-55K)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

89-22 57K

TO:

DIRECTOR AND SACS, DALLAS AND SAN ANTONIO

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (89-35) (P)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY, NOVEMBER TWENTYTWO

SIXTYTHREE,

124/96

DALLAS, TEXAS.

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

REMYTEL TO BUREAU TEN THIRTYEIGHT AM, NOVEMBER TWENTYSIX,

SIXTYTHREE, RE VOSE ANTONIO CARBARGA.

EMILIO, NIN

BORTLONDO CALLED FBI, MIAMI, NOVEMBER TWENTY-

SEVEN, SIXTYTHREE, TO CALL ATTENTION TO VIOLENCE IN VENEZUELA

AND THE REPORTED ATTEMPT ON THE LIVES OF VARIOUS OFFICIALS THERE

EY MEANS DE BOMBS DISGULSED AS GIFTS. ON NOVEMBER IWENTIN RENT

SIXTYTHREE HE NOTED THESE ADDITIONAL ACTS OF VIOLENCE ARE/PROOF

OF THE STATEMENT OF JOSE ANTONIO CABARGA THAT QUOTE CASTRO'S PLAN

OF VIOLENCE CONTINUES IN VENEZUELA, PERILAND ALL THE AMERICAS

ril..

TINN CONTAINEU

UNQUOTE.

"ID

E:

NUNEZ SITED THAT CARLOS LECHUCA, CUA" BASSADOR TO THE

UNITED NATIONS IN NEWYORK, IS AT THE HEAD OF ALL CUBAN ESPIONAGE

AND SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY IN THE UNITED STATES. HE ADMITTED HE

HAD NOTHING ON WHICH TO BASE THIS STATEMENT, BUT STATED IT IS

8:9-35.88

ELS: EGH

•dexeu

(2).

I - New York (AlS Rep

Approved:

N 53025 DocId: 321Seesial Haget in Cho

proved: 2 Seetal bat in he e

_ M

Per

---

## Page 3

- FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in

Via

PAGE TWO

MM 89-35

(Type in plain text or code)

SECR

"(Priority or Method of Mailing)

COMMON KNOWLEDGE AND THE FBI SHOULD INVESTIGATE LECHUGA. • NUNEZ

NOTED THE MIAMI HERALD FOR NOVEMBER. TWENTYNINE, SIXTYTHREE REPORTS

ARREST OF JOSE ANTONIO CABARGA, MEXICO CITY, FOR ALLEGEDLY GIVING

ARTICLE TO MEXICO CITY DAILY NEWSPAPER QUOTE EL UNIVERSAL UNQUOTE

QUOTING NUNEZ PORTUONDO AS STATING THAT THE ASSASSINATION OF

PRESIDENT KENNEDY WAS A CASTRO PLOT. NUNEZ BELIEVED ARREST OF

CABARGA DUE TO FBI ACTION. HE WAS ASSURED THAT FBI HAD NOTHING

TO DO WITH ARREST OF CABARGA

IN VIEW OF VIOLENCE IN LATIN AMERICA AND KIDNAPING OF ASSISTANT

MILITARY ATTACHE IN VENEZUELA, IT IS SUGGESTED BUREAU MAY WISH

TO REMIND STATE DEPARTMENT

Y FOR SUCH INSTRUCTIONS AND PRECAUTIONS

AS MAY BE DEEMED APPROPRIATE, OF INFORMATION SECURED BY MM

SEVEN

EIGHT ZERO'S JEROM RAUL ROA KOURI IN RIOR JAME THAT HERE

• WOULD

NOT BE A SAFE U.S. AMBASSADOR IN ANY FOREIGN POST IN EVENT OF

VIOLENCE UNQUOTE. THIS INFORMATION IS ALREADY REPORTED AND

DISSEMINATED BY BUREAU BY LHM FROM MIAMI NOVEMBET TWELVE, SIXTY-

THREE CAPTIONED QUOTE CUBA'S RELATIONS WITH SOVIET BLOC COUNTRIES,

IS DASH CUBA, BUFILE SIXTYFOUR DASH FOUR SEVEN ONE FIVE SIX

UNQUOTE.

LOOT

Approved: -

Sent

M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

53025 DocId: 32198856 Page 3

---

