# docid-32288352

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10199-10128

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3182-175

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

LEG, OT

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 03/27/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/16/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF RCMP

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO RCMP, INC LTR

v9.1

DocId: 32288352

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ALL CORRESPONDENCE TO BE

LODRESSED: -

THE COMMISSIONER,

R. C.M. POLICE,

OTTAWA

FILE NO. 61 HQ-1180-1-C-8

Your Ref:

92-34

HEADQUARTERS

OTTAWA, March 24, 1961.

CANADA

Mr.

Moss Lee Innes,

F•B: I. Liaison Officer,

United States Embassy,

100 Wellington Street,

Ottawa, Ontario.

Dear Mr. Innes:

Re:

Gus ALEX - Anti-Racketeering

Referring to the above and your

office memorandum of February 9, 1961, please be advised

that the manifest of Air France, Montreal, P. reveals

arrived at

not

indicate if ALEX had departed Canada for Detroit, U.S.A.

It was ascertained that had he been in possession of a

direct passage for Detroit and stopped over in Montreal

in transit no record of his departure would be kept in

Montreal.

2.

reveal that subject had lost a piece of baggage while en

The 105t

The lost and found records of Air France

route to Canada and he left instructions that if same was

Located it should be forwarded to Mr. Gus ALEX, 9353 South

Spalding, Evergreen Park, Illinois.

3.

Enquiries through the Ritz Carlton

Hotel, Montreal met with negative results.

.4.

In view of the foregoing we are con-

cluding our file unless advised to the contrary.

Joars very truly,

C.W.J. Goldsmith,

Insp.,

Officer in Charge.

Criminal

92-3182-

Investigation Branch.

175°

ENCLOSURE

108041158

DocId: 32288352 Page 2

---

