# docid-32303072

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

RECORD AGANCK: 124-10283-10084

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 63-4426-131

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/09/1958

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

SMO, ASSOC, SJL, GENOVESE, MIKE, THP, RACK AND SUBV,

B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

14

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45854

DocId:32303072 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (63-4426)

DATE:

6/9/58

ROME: A.W

SAC, PITTSBURGH. (92-277)

SUBJECT:

MEETING OF HOODLUMS,

APALACHIN, NEW YORK

11/14/57

AR

00: ALBANY

Re Albany airtel to Bureau, 5/12/58, and Pittsburgh letter

to Bureau, 5/28/58.

The following information/requested by the Albany Office

concerning MIKE GENOVESE was. MICHAEL JAMES GENOVESE,

MICHAEL GENOVESE,

Is being set

forth herewith:

VERIFICATION OF THE STATUS OF MIKE GENOVESE AS A MAJOR

FIGURE.

Investigation in the Pittsburgh vicinity subsequent to the

meeting of hoodlums at Apalachin, New York, on 11/14/57

has established the fact that GENOVESE"'is a major figure

as far as the Pittsburgh racketeering element is concerned.

His association with racket figures in the vicinity of

Apalachin during November, 1957; has received widespread

publicity in Pittsburgh newspapers.

OTHER 4

a potential criminal informant of the

Pittsburgh Office who is intimately acquainted with many

Pittsburgh top hoodlums through association with them when

they began their racket careers and who was once associated

with Pittsburgh top hoodlum SEBASTIAN JOHN'LA ROCCA as a

partner in a coin machine business in Pittsburgh, advised

PA

SA ROBERT A. VOEGE on 2/27/58 that in his opinion LA ROCCA

is "héad. of the entire racket set-up in Western Pennsylvania"

and that the MANNARINO brothers of New Kensington, Pa., are

"probably just below him" in stature.

He stated

that he

has no doubt that LA ROCCA 1s grooming MIKE GENOVESE for

this lofty racket position so that he may take it over following

the retirement of LA ROCCA.

- Bureau

2 - Albany (62-1152)

63-4424-

131

4 - Pittsburgh (2-92-277)

(1-92-235) (1-92-246)

REC- 90

!

RAV/ jab

(8)

1. COPIES MADE,

12 JUN 10 1958

Lawe

FOR REVIEW AT FBINA AND/OR I

VEN A MaNN 2878 BY,

67 JUN 171953

TO HSOA DE REQUEST DATEU

(SEL ZUriE 62-117290)

1 4507

NW 45854 DocId: 32303072

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-277

Contacted again on 5/29/58

advised that he has had no OTHER 4

reason to change this opinion.

a potential criminal informant of the Pittsburgh

Ilice who is closely associated with the Pittsburgh

racketeering element and is presently a waitress at the Red

Eagle Club, formerly known as The Genovese Cocktail Lounge,

412 Larimer Avenue, Pittsburgh, advised SA ROBERT A. VOEGE

on 2/19/58 that she understands

that SAM MANNARINO is the chief

racketeer in Western Pennsylvania and that SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA

is his immediate underling.

She advised that is is obvious

PA

to everyone connected with the rackets in the Pittsburgh area

that MIKE GENOVESE, a polished, sincere, serious and ultra-

conservative individual, is the next heir to LA ROCCA's position

with the responsibilities that go with it.

Contacted again on 6/3/58 she said she has had no reason to

change this belief.

SUBSTANTIAL FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS OR OPERATIONS OF MIKE

GENOVESE SINCE NOVEMBER 14, 1957.

GENOVESE has been engaged in no known actual substantial

financial transactions or operations since 11/14/57, but

Informants have advised that he is actively endeavoring to

develop several newly anticipated enterprises.

On 4/11/58 the Pittsburgh Office received information confidentially

Irom THOMAS MARTIN, Vice-President, Real Estate Division, Potter

Bank and Trust Company of Pittsburgh, that ARTHUR D. NELSON, kA

a Pittsburgh top hoodlum and a partner of GENOVESE in Archie!s

Automatic Car Wash, 8050 Bennett Street, Pittsburgh, had

ARCHIE

approached Potter's Loan Department for a $275,000 construction

loan in order to build a 54-unit motel in the vicinity of

Monroeville near Pittsburgh at a total cost of $491,000.

on 5/20/58 PG 573-C, who has supplied reliable information in

the past, advised SA JOHN S. PORTELLA that he had been able to

learn that the aforementioned ARTHUR D. NELSON, who is better known

as "ARCHIE,"

and MIKE GENOVESE are planning to

build a large auto

parts and accessory store on Frankstown Avenue near the aforementioned

automatic car wash.

He stated that it was his understanding that

ground would be broken in the near future for the construction

of the new building that will house this store.

- 2 -

NW 45854 DocId:32303072 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-277

on 5/27/58

advised SA ROBERT A. VOEGE that she

had learned MIKE GENOVESE and several of his friends would

open a negro cocktail lounge in the Homewood Section of

Pittsburgh and this establishment would hire negro help and have

a negro manager.

No further information regarding the aforementioned business

transactions has been received to date, but developments

along these lines are being

followed closely by the Pittsburgh

Office.

BUSINESS OPERATIONS BEGUN, ENTERED INTO OR DISCONTINUED SINCE

NOVEMBER

14, 195%, BY MIKE GENOVESE.

No known business operations have been begun or discontinued

or have been entered into by MIKE GENOVESE since 11/14/57 except

as outlined under the previous caption.

RE-ALIGNMENT OF CRIMINAL OR QUASI-LEGAL OPERATIONS IN

REGARD TO MIKE GENOVESE.

There

has been no information concerning the re-alignment of

any such operations on the part of MIKE GENOVESE to date.

Informants have advised, however, that GENOVESE 1s well

aware

he is under investigation by the Bureau and has instructed

his associates to be close-mouthed in their contacts with

other individuals.: It 1s also noted by informants that the

numbers business engaged in by GENOVESE moves its "floating

headquarters" frequently to avoid suspicion.

INFORMATION REGARDING FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS AND BUSINESS

OPERATIONS AND THE RE-ALIGNMENT OF CRIMINAL OR QUASI-LEGAL

OPERATIONS DEVELOPED BY OTHER LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES IN

THE PITTSBURCH DIVISION SINCE NOVEMBER 14, 1957.

CARMEN R. DAMIAN, Field Supervisor, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax

Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Narcotics, U.S. Ireasury

S. Treasury Department,and WILLIAM F. DURKIN, Special

Department, Pittsburgh,

Pa., advised SAS THOMAS G. FORSYTH 111

and DAMON W. PITCHER that

their organizations have not

conducted any investigation into the activities of MIKE GENOVESE

since 11/14/57 and do not anticipate the initiation of such

an investigation in the near future.

- 3 -

OTHER 4

HW

45854 DocId: 32303072 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-277

Continuing liaison with the police departments of Richland and

West Deer Townships, which cover the neighborhood surrounding

the GENOVESE residence at Gibsonia, Pa., has reflected that

no new information concerning GENOVESE has been developed.

The Pittsburgh Office is presently reviewing and re-evaluating

1ts major hoodlum investigation in 'an effort to ascertain

the actual financial holdings of this subject.

Constant

checks are being made in this regard, keeping in mind that an

estimate of the net worth of a major

hoodlum such as MIKE

GENOVESE, based upon his scale of living, will be invaluable

not only for uncovering heretofore unknown sums of money,

but for dissemination to the local office, of the Internal

Revenue Service as an aid to that agency's investigative

efforts. This information will be evaluated for comparison

with the suggested agenda of the Apalachin meeting to

determine whether the transactions are in any way coincidental.

There has been no new information coming to the attention of

Pittsburgh agents, through informants or sources, which would

Indicate that the Apalachin meeting was held for anything other

than those

purposes listed under Section E of referenced

Albany airtel.

It is to be noted that Pittsburgh Informant PG 514-C advised

on 11/25/57 that he had received information from one PAIIIANI, who

had obtained it that same day from MIKE GENOVESE, that

at the meeting it was agreed to build a string of motels across

the country and local representatives of the group were to

begin construction in their territories. The group at

Apalachin would be called upon for any financial aid needed

in this regard.

At this same time GENOVESE reportedly advised

TIANI that he and his partner, ARCHIE NELSON, also a Pittsburgh

top hoodlum, had plans to build a motel at Monroeville, Pa:

MIKE GENOVESE was contacted by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE on 5/29/58 - 3

at which time he advised that inasmuch as he had little

of Pittsburgh.

He admitted that he was

does not believe he has done anything wrong to warrant such

an investigation.

He admitted that he was at Apalachin

New York, on 11/14/57, but stated he

"aidn't know what it

was all about.'

He said that he wishes now he had never been

- 4 -

NW 45854 DocId:32303072 Page 5

---

