# docid-32171253

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD_SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10173-10072

105-82555-3RD NR 5465

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: DEPUTY DIRECTOR, CIA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53244 Date:

06-12-2017

DATE: 11/15/1965

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

LHO, POST-RP, FPCC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

10/14/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

53244

DocId: 32171253

Page

---

## Page 2

CIA

TO:

SEGRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC

WASHINGTON 25, D:C.

AS FOR FELEAMA

PROGRAM JBA 8/2/93

T80s Lad rate 9=

15 NOV 1965

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM:

Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT: [SUGAR Conversation with Diana (inee HERMANS)

BORNSTEIN

CIA HAS NO OBJEC

DEC

RELLAOL OF 6

BL THIS BiK

I. The following information was acquired by SUGAl at

a dinner party with Mr. and Mrs. Robert BORNSTEIN in

London on 8 September 1965J(S)

Diana (nee HERMANS) BORNSTEIN is a distant cousin

of the former South African External Affairs Minister, Eric

"South African agent by those who digate her. l

her very well in New York City where

the Alastair Cooke film team ät the United Nations/

3. Diana a husband, [Robert is a painter.

of a United States career diplomat.

He was born in Italy and

had lived in South Africa during his youth. He is apparently

well-acquainted with lettist personalities in New York, but he

is probably not a member of any leftist group.

The BORNSTEINS

have been married approximately two years.

In the gourse of the conversation, Mrs. BORNSTEIN

mentioned that

Daniel WATTS, the publisher of the crypto-

black nationatiet monthly, Liberator, was then becoming very

frightened of all leftists.

She added that "his black nationalism

was also wearing owll

66DEC 21 1965

1.454

140583265535

CIVE ACT. #

E.0

NOT RECORDED

033

INT ATS MAK

103-100

1ORG 1965

Per giAlette 4/2358 m

nomatice

downgrad

SECRET Le

and

3RA NR 5465

HIH

53244

DocId: 32171253

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Mrs. BORNSTEIN:

(Ted) LEG, the

former national director 9y4

for Cuba Committee,

was distributing Chinese publicati

Now York City. He

had talked about putting out a magazine of his own, similar

(see Revolution, which he had distributed in the past.

Mrs.

BORNSTEIN indicated that many people- were beginning. o

unexplained aspecti

was described as very, ansious to get Information from people,

(5) and Mrd BORNS TRI said some were wondering if he weren't

working with the Federal Bureau of Investigation--turning over

letters and names and addresses of those who wrote for Chinese

publications.

•CSCI-316/04732-65

CRE:

SECREL I

dediar

autoantics

AHN CAN

Micailon

HH

53244

DocId: 32171253

Page 3

---

