# docid-32293694

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kemedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 21UT Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10211-10470

HQ

92-6366-1, 2, 3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

CANNELL, DOUGLAS C.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/30/1962

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32293694

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennety Assassination Records Collection Hot or 1952 144 U5c 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MD-88S (ReT. $-1-99)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DETROIT

TITLE OF CASA

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

BETROIT

aka. Jack

FRANK PROPELZANO;

DOMINIC PROVENZANO;

ANTHONY YPROVENZANO

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/30/62

8/3 - 11/16/62

MAI

›E BY

SA(A) DOUGLAS. C. CANNELL

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

YPED ВУ

LEADS

ilef

DETROIT

AT DETROIT, MICHIGAN

M11l, through the District Director of Internals

Revenue, Pederal Building, royder the Federal Income Tax reutenly

of.,all

subjects for the past five years and summarize thelr

contents with a view toward determining if any part of their

Income was derived from illicit activities.

will, through an appropriate source at the

Michigan Bell Telephone Company, reviey and report available

toll tickets covering long distance

calls made by the Subjects

from their business and personal telephones, the numbers of

which are identified in this report.

7

PPROVED

COPIES MADE

A SPECIAL AGEN

Detrolt (3-92-965

62

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. -

cow FWD.

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPOS

• RoN, 25

JC E

DEE:

58 DEC 2 0 1962

193694

Page

N92+

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

6366

25 DEC 4 1962

VOTATIONS

вод siespot

REC- 30

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hote).

DATES® 1IA11-2017

DE 92-965

INFORMANTS

DE T-1 is DE 718-C. Since this source is an

Informant of the Detroit Office, he is being

concealed.

DE T-2 is Mrs. BERNICE FRUEH, Clerk, Michigan

Local Board No. 77, 105 North Jefferson Avenue,

Saginaw, Michigan, who is being concealed for the

reason that she furnished information from confidential

records.

DE T-3 is THOMAS O'REILLY, Supervisor, Michigan

Bell Telephone Company, Saginaw, Michigan, who

requested that his identity be concealed because

the information furnished by him came from confidential

records of his employer.

In the details of this report, certain investigation

conducted by SA JAMES H. FRAZIER in another investigative matter

is set out. That other matter is the case entitled "ANTHONY

JOSEPH GIACALONE, aka.; ANTI-RACKETEERING," DEfile 92-228.

SSA

REVIEWED BY EB/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

6/2/97 des

D RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

- C*-

Cover Page

DocId: 32293694 Page

3

---

