# docid-32338711

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90143-10129

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-370750-NR

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/18/1941

• PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

HERBERT BIBERMAN

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

WW 54160

DocId: 32338711 Page 1

---

## Page 2

COAPVENTIAL

FEDERAL BUREAU

Origin:

LOS ANGELES,

Report made at:

CALIFORNIA

Date

LOS ANGET.ES, CALIFORNIA

Title:

10-18-41

INVESTIGATION

ALL INROSUATION CONTAINKI

HERE T D

WCHISSIFIED

EXCEPT

MARIE SHOWN

Period

File No: 100-6769

Report made by:

10/11-18/41

GWS

THOMAS E. MYERS

Character of case:

HERBERT BIBERMAN;

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

Gassled by 9145

INTERNAL SECURITY (R)

SYNOPSIS:

EDWARD C. CARTER left Los Angeles Oct. 12, 194]

en route

San Francisco, Seattle, and Chicago for

further activities bearing on organization local committees

for Russian war relief.

Bureau offices in said

[u]

and surveillance requested.

THOMAS L. HARRIS, National Secre-

tary, AMERICAN COUNCIL ON SOVIET RELATIONS, visited LoS Angeles

Oct. 3 to oct. 11, 1941; delivered address Oct. 9, 1941 featur-

ing transcription of broadcast by Women of Moscow and urging

support for Soviet Union. HARRIS also conferred with BIBERMAN

and LAWSON Oct. 10, 1941 concerning participation of subjects

In organization of local unit of A.C.S.R.

conference, disclosedkin letter written by HARRIS to ERNEST DAW-

SON, prominent Los Angeles Communist, Indicate subjects, with

VIOLA BROTHERS SHORE and JOHN GARFIELD, are to take active part

in organizing local unit A.C.S.R.

Photographic and photostatic

copies HARRIS' document forwarded Bureau and New York. Char-

acter of A.C.S.R. as militant C.P. front organization with plans

for national development clearly disclosed, and Bureau advised

by teletype. Personnel of meeting held at LAWSON'S home Oct. 5,.

1941 ascertained; group apparently concerned with activities

(U) LEAGUE OF AMERICAN WRITERS. Additional meeting, held oct. 16,

1941 at home of LESTER COLE, was attended by BIBERMAN and LAW-

Questionable status MADELINE RUTHVEN cited. Additional

covers established. General YAKHONTOFF, under auspices of

I.W.O., expected Los Angeles presently for propaganda purposes.

-P-

ORIGINAL FILER

S,oA.C.

Copies:

5

Bureau

2

- San Francisco 2-2195

1100-3707500

2 - Seattle

Clesaltion

D5468S0ed700050

2 - Chicago

4 - New York

Doctorster di CAn JAK

AUG

3

1950

4 - Los Angeles

CONFIDENTIAO

GARTED 22022P

C38.

NW 54460 DooId: 32338711 Page 2

---

## Page 3

REFERENCE:

ENTLAL CONT

Report of Special Agent THOMAS E. MYERS, LOS

Angeles, California, dated October 11, 1941.

Los AngeLes

teletypes dated october 13 and

15, 1941,

DETAILS:

At the close of the last weekly period reflected in re-

ference report, EDWARD C. CARTER was still at Los Angeles

and under observation intermittently by Special Agents STANLEY R. RUSSO

and the writer..

and was observed checking out of that hotel on October 12, 1941. A lengthy

up on ton

list of telephone numbers for calls made by CARTER during his stay at the

Biltmore Hotel was furnished by Assistant Manager CATO of that hotel, and

the identities of the subscribers thereto are being secured for inclusion

subsequent report.

CARDER left no forwarding address and went per-

sonally to

the United Airlines Office immediately adjacent to the Biit-

more Hotel, where he made air travel reservations. From Mr. A. C. VOORHIS;

Reservations Clerk of the said airline, the following prospective itiner-.

ary of CARTER was obtained:

The records disclosed that CARTER was scheduled to travel

on Flight 17. leaving San Francisco at 3:15 P.M. on October 14, 1941 for

Seattle, due to arrive in Seattle at 8:27 P.M. the same date.

He was

booked to leave Seattle via United Airlines on Trip No. 14 for

Chicago at 4:15. P.M. on October 15, 1941, and scheduled to arrive at

1941.

Inasmuch as CARTER traveled

Chicago at 8:32 An Antiber 1&this alalire, It was assumed that ha

from New York to Tos

would make further reservations on the same carrier at Chicago.

ine offices on CARER's route were advised by reference teletype poll of

13, 1941, which further

related CARTER'S status as an organizer for the

COMMITITE FOR MEDICAL AID TO RUSSIA.

It was requested therein that the

cerning his contacts, activities, and developments resultant therefrom

in each of the named cities.

Confidential National Defense Informant Los Angeles No.

1100 indicated that due to subject BIBERMAN'S illness, he did not ac-

company CARTER to the plane and did not see him personally after october

9, 1941. JANE MEADE, however, according to the cited informant, took

up various matters with CARTER and relazed CARTER'S messages to BIBER-

MAN. It will be observed hereinafter that BIBERMAN was engaged on october

10, 1941 on another of his projects and apparently did not have time to

entertain CARTER at his home. However, JANE MEADE indicated to BIBERMAN

that the program of the Russian Aid Committee was thought by CARTER to

be progressing satisfactorily and it is apparent that the group felt

the writer's reference report.wl

15731

During the current weekly period it has been observed daily

CONFIDENTIAD

-2-.

HH

54460 DooId: 32338711

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONPRDENTIAL

time a junior partner of MORGAN & COMPANY had been seen at a "red" meeting.

It is interesting to note the reference by BIBERMAN to the LAMONT spon-

sorship of Pussian war relief in juxtaposition to his statements regarding

the AMERICAN COUNCIL ON SOVIET RELATIONS. It is reasonably obvious that there

is a motivating force controlling the resurgence of the two types of pro

paganda favorable to the Soviet cause and collaterally the education of

the torn of overmone

the American public to the abandonment of prejudice against the Soviet and

In view of this, the Bureau was advised by

reference teletype of october 15, 1941, in compliance with instructionsC

contained in Bureau letter of August T, 1947, concerning the activities

of the A.C.S.3.

as additionally disclosed by documentary evidence men

tioned below.

(U)

(ur

With reference to the conference arranged by CULLEN for HARRIS,

BIBERMAN,

and TAliON as above cived, it may ba stated that due to the

secrecy maintained by the participants, no information could be secured

by Confidential National Defense Informant Los Angeles 1100. However, it

was ascertained that Rev. THOMAS I. HARRIS was registered at the Mayflower

Hotel, 527 South Grand Avenue, Los Angeles, California.

His registration

card as furnished by Mr. MCMEANS, manager, and photostatic copies of which

are being placed in the Los angeles file in this case, reflects that HARRIS,

accompanied by his wife, checked into the Hötel on October 3, 1941, and

occupied Room 925 until October 11, 1941. While at the hotel, HARRIS made

three telephone calls and sent

two telegrams. On October 3, 1941, hé tele-

phoned Crestviow 68340 twice, and it has been ascertained that the subscriber

to this number is the European Film Fund, 9172 Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles,

California. Collateral information is being secured concerning this organi-

zation to ascertain, if possible, what business relations HARRIS had with the

organization.

On October 10, 1941, HARRIS telephoned Sunset 23387, which is

an unpublished number subscribed to by JOHN GARFIELD, 4031 Longridge Ave.,

Van Nuys, California.

The status of GARFIELD will be described hereinafter.

The telegrams sent by HARRIS were both directed to New York City to addressees

whose identities have not yet been ascertained.

The Peoples World, Communist Party newspaper, in its

issue of October 10, 1941 carried an article entitled "ANGELENOS URGE

NORE SOVIET AID" which reflected that HARRIS spoke at a rally under the

auspices of the American Council on Soviet Relations on

October 9, 1941.

CUMENTIAL =

NW 54460 DooId:32338711

Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONFISETAL

he "did not think they were the right people." It will be noted here that

both VIOLA BROTHERS SHORE and SÄMUEL ORNITZ have been prominent in the past

in connection with Communist front organizations, and further, it is re-

called that the pattern of BIBERMAN'S activities as cited in the writer's

reference report and the report dated October 4, 1941, calls for the use of

fersons who

have not been prominent in the past in Communist-dominated. or-

ganizations.

(U)

The meeting at LESTER COLE'S house, above described, was dis-

cussed by MADELINE RUTHVEN with BIBERMAN along lines which indicated that

it was called because she had received a telegram from New York asking for,

haste and presumably sent by HARRIS' headquarters. Confidential National

Defense Informant los Angeles No. 1100 advised that in the discussion

RUTHVEN stated that they must have the names in by the 24th, and the

informant suggests the possibility that the names in question are those of

local sponsors and workers on the A.C.S.R. project. She stated that "they",

obviously meaning the New York headquarters, had "sent some names from

New York -- some very good names."

According to the cited informant, RUTH-

VEN further commented on the fact that it would be difficult to get JULIE.

o attend the meeting because of his present motion picture comnitments.

Informant 1200 has indicated that JULIE is identical with JOHN GARfIElD. (L

Reference is made to the fact that HARRIS' letter was addressed.

to ERNEST DAWSON and further reference is made to the mention therein of

Division Office reflecting the status of these individuals with relation to

the Communist Party.

It will be noted that HARRIS himself says that he

met DAWSON in the Soviet Union. The fact of DAWSON'S visit to Russia has

been of record in the Los Angeles Field Division, which has a case entitled

"ERNEST DAWSON; MRS. SADIE ROBERTS DAWSON, with aliases; ESPIONAGE - R,"

Los Angeles File No. 65-1374. In this case custodial detention memorandums

have been submitted on both DAWSON and his wife. The DAWSON'S live at

3003 Vineyard Street, Los Angeles, California, and DAWSON operates a high-

class book shop known as DAWSON'S BOOK STORE, located at 627 South Grand

Avenue, Los Angeles, California.

DAWSON was a sponsor of the SCHNEIDERMAN-DARCY DEFENSE COMMITTHE,

and

his wife was treasurer of that committee. DAWSON was also a captain of

the

61st Assembly District of the AMERICAN PEACE CRUSADE and has been re-

ported by Confidential National Defense Informant Los Angeles No. 3 as a

member of the Communist Party as of January 31, 1939. This informant in-

dicates the present possession and ability to produce documentary evidence

of DAWSON'S membership in the Communist Party. In view of the fact that

DAWSON appears of interest to this investigation in the light of Rev.

HARRIS' letter, it is considered advisable to establish a mail cover

this individual, änd same has been requested as of the date of this report.

QOSITRENTIAL

NW 54460 DooId:32338711

Page 5

---

## Page 6

MAL

League, the school started as a school for writers on Monday,

October 13,

1941, and from the circumstance of the group meeting at LAWSON'S, it is

concluded that the meeting had reference to the launching of this school.

From Confidential National Defense Informant Los Angeles Nc. 3, there was

obtained data indicating that CEDRIC BELFRAGE, PAUL JARRICO, VIOLA

BROTHERS SHORE, and JOHN HOWARD LAWSON will be among the instructors in

the school for writers. Informant No. 3 advised that he had cotained a

and that JOHN HOWARD IAWSON would conduct a course entitled "History of

Anerican Liberty From the Colonial Period to The Present" on Monday even-

ings throughout the winter.

In view of the character of the lectures to be delivered by

LANSON as indicated by the title of his course, consideration is being given

to the registration of a Bureau employee or Confidential Informant in

the courses being offered at the Writers, School.

It is noted that the LEAGUE OF AVERICAN WRITERS has received

attention as a Communist front organization in the Los Angeles Field

Division and full information concerning it is reflected in the case

entitled "LEAGUE OF AMERICAN WRITERS; INTERNAL SECURITY - R," Los Angeles

File NO. 100-5377.

As of the date if the dictation of this report, Ccnfidential

National Defense Infcrmant. Los Angeles No. 1100 advised that information

had been developed concerning General YAKHONIOFF, who, it is ncted, is men-

tioned in the lotter written by THOMAS I. HARRIS to ERNEST DANSON.

cited informant advised that one PHILIP GARDNER contacted subject BIBER-

MAN and advised him that the I.W.O. was bringing General YAKHONTOFF te

Los Angeles on the seventeenth of November, and that YAKHONIOFE would re-

main until the twenty-third of November.

GARDER stated that YAKHONTOFF

is"booked every night," but that be, GIRDNER, got in touch with BIBERMAN

to offer the services of YAKHONIOFE tC BIBERMAN Icr propaganda use by sub-

ject "among the Hollyweed crowd." BIBERMAN, in rejoinder, advised GARDNER

that possibly the AMERICAN COUNCIL ON SOVIRT RELATIONS "might be able tr

use him," but he "stated that YAkHONTOFF would have to be made available in

the evening.

GARDER stated that possibly that could be arranged, and it

was suggested that some time prior to YAKHONTOFF'S arrival, BIBERMAN get

in touch with GARDNER, whose office is Room 336, 257 South Spring Street,

Ios Angeles, telephone MUtual 5468. Informant 1100 further stated that fol-

lowing the discussion concerning YAKHONTOFF'S availability to BIBERMAN if

the latter wanted him, GIRDER asked BIBERMAN if the latter would like to

be on a program with YAKHONIOFE at a mass meeting to be held at the Embassy

Auditorium, Los Angeles, during YAKHONIOFF'S visit.

BIBERMAN immediately

stated to GARDER that he expected to be out of town in about three weeks

and would remain away from los angeles for at least six weeks, and there-

fore, could not be publicly booked. It will be obvious from knowledge

Of BIBIRMAN!S intention to assume employment in a motion picture studio i

RETENTIAL

: NH 54460 DooId: 32338711

Page 6

---

