# docid-32291568

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

RECORD_NUMBER:

FBI

124-10207-10344

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 45-10854-25

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45701 Date:

11-15-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 10/07/1968

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT:

OBA, ASSOC, ACA, SUSP, CONSPR, POLISH VESSEL "POLANICA", DAMAGE,

INDICTMENTS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

02/25/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Law 10(a)2

COMMENTS:

HH 45701

DocId: 32291568

Page 1

---

## Page 2

.. 0

CONFIDENTIAL

PAGETWO MM 44-1175

THEODORE KLEIN AND ATTORNEY PHILLIP MORRIS FROM THÉ U.S.

DEPARIMENI OF JUSTICE WHO HAS ARRIVED IN MIAMI TO ASSIST

THE USA'S OFFICE IN HANDLING INSTANT MATTER.

AT THIS CONFERENCE, THE USA INDICATED HE INTENDS

TO HAVE THE PRINCIPAL SOURCE IN THIS MATTER, RICARDO MORALES

NAVARRETE APPEAR BEFORE THE GRAND JURY AS WELL AS SPECIAL

JEK Law 10(a)2

AGENTS

LAND

IN ADDITION, HE ANTICIPATES SUBPOENAING I

THE WESTERN UNION OFFICIAL WHO HAS IDENTIFIED

Fla

BOSCH AND LOURDES

CUESTA, THE INDIVIDUAL WHO OVERHEARD THE CE

CONVERSATION BY BOSCH IN A LOCAL RESTAURANT.

IT WAS SUGGESTED THAT USA MEADOWS CONSIDER HAVING

INDICTMENTS RETURNED BY THE GRAND. JURY SEALED SO THAT

SIMULTANEOUS ARRESTS CAN BE MADE TO REDUCE THE CHANCE OF

SOME OF THE INDIVIDUALS BECOMING FUGITIVES. IT WAS FURTHER

SUGGESTED THAT SUCH A PROCEDURE WOULD ALSO ASSIST IN THE

EXECUTION OF SEARCH WARRANTS WHICH WOULD BE EXECUTED AT

THE SAME TIME AS THE ARRESTS.

END PAGE TWO

CONFIDENTIALI

45-10854-25

NW 45701 DooId: 32291568 Page 2

---

