# docid-32316575

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

ФАТЕ: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/26/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10350-10017

• RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-192169-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/20/1969

7

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1C; 4

Redact

09/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO; INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32316575

4

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mate).

DATE: 11-14-2017:

OPTIONAL FOEM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES G

RNMENT

Memorandum

MAY 2 0 1969

TO

FROM

:

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

SECRET

SAC, MIAMI

(105-17960) (P)

copies made

SUBJECT:

7-3044 WILLIAN TORN

DEMPSEY, aka

2:3•78 P43/156

Caesifist ly 5p& mec/ust

- HAITI

He weapore

Cesiasshy

GAOK

HSCA re 12:16•7 requesteW

JFICe

11500 But 1Ze #97-7477995

ESE9AE

68-00-5

Miami letter, with enclosures,

entitled

"WILL

TAM J. DEMPSEY, aka

Bill, IS - CUBA; NEUTRALITY

MATTER, " dated 1/8/68, Bufile 2-1693.

Enclosed herewith are 10 copies of an LHM

200 d

EndL

dated "and captioned as above.

aLVa

Copies are being disseminated locally to the

following Federal agencies:

DAC to MI-5 775-24

correct copus. Du copies corrected

le I-aiti instead of 1S-Cuba

and iracuation memo should

crcor.Charactron.HM

Remarks nonsubstantul

JEO: dih

Date 6

Cory to.

0-17 to.

-J-69

miame

4ork

U.

S.

Secret

Service, Miami, Flori

+1105-0-119618)

NISO,

Charleston, South Carolina

111th M.I. Group, Orlando, Florida

for ingo: 7-9-6,9

Cuban Affairs (State Department) ,

CIA, Miami

J0tm

U.

S. Coast Guard, Miami

U.

S. Customs

(Miami and Region II, Miami)

U. S. Border Patrol, Miami

INS, Miami

OSI, Robins Air Force. Base,

Georgia

classified. 28132

145/08

MM T-1 is MM 639-S.

Exept, from CDS, Cetod

Enclosed LHM is being classified "confidential"

to better protect a source of continuing value.

_copios made

51-1

Z811/015

SOLDIER

It FBINO b

or revis?. Hemmin

HiSCARe:.

1'- New York (Info) (Enc-1) (RM)

1 - Miami

RJD: s 11

VA9

8105-1921693

(4)

Copy to: CIA State/RAO(SD) / Customs

thi;

NIO/OST/ASCI

oy routing silo for info

Wet:

IS MAY 22: 1969

.ЭЭГ

'80

NOL

Date 6-5-69 bYVEO: dih

6:5-69

Icclet, dee LuM to Legat atlawa

(LAD

VH

Remarks: Lessem:

to RIMP. 5)

3RVД

SIHA

=

GOL & CIN

DocId: 32316575 Page 2

---

## Page 3

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017 '

vija

MM 105-17960

Miami will maintain contact with MM 639-S

to ascertain if subject leaves-sanada. to Join the Haitiar

exile forces of RENE JUARES LEON, In the

Bahamas. (u)

_2 -

1790

DocId: 32316575 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017-°

CONFIDENTIAL

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami, Florida

MAY 2 0 1969

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

105-17960

SECRET

RE:

GESLISSHIED BY SRS MACHISE

01. 7-30-94!

WILLIAM JOHN DEMPSEY

INTERNAL SECURITY - HAITI

MM T-1, a close friend and associate of DEMPSEY

for the past eight years

following information: HU

on May o, 1969, furnished the

WILLIAM JOHN DEMPSEY, also known as Bill, is

a Canadian citizen and came to the Miami area in about

1961.

He claimed to be a veteran of the Canadian Army,

and became involved with American mercenaries and ad-

ventures who formed a

were then planning military expeditions to overthrow the

Government of Cuba.

DEMPSEY and other members of this

group served as military instructors for different exile

groups.

Most of these adventurers had criminal records,

were army deserters, and subsequently, under police pres-

sure, left the Miami area. U

In November, 1961, HEMMING planned to launch

an infiltration mission against Cuba.

He and twelve

others, including DEMPSEY, were arrested by United States

Customs agents on December 4, 1962,

at Marathon, Florida.

On January 22, 1963, the case against them was dismissed.

In November, 1966, ROLANDO/MASFERRER/ROJAS, a

former Cuban

senator, and RENE JUARES LEON, a Haitian

exile, planned to leave the FYorida Keys on an invasion

of Haiti, On January 2, 1967,

States Customs

agents arrested them and about 75 others and the invasion

attempt was

stopped. DEMPSEY was participating in

this

CONEIDENTIAL

Group

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

INDEFINITE.

SECRET

105-192169-3

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32316575 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017•°

CONFIDENTIAL

WILLIAM JOHN DEMPSEY

invasion attempt but when Customs agents moved in to

make the arrests, DEMPSEY fled and evaded apprehension. L

On January 20, 1969, RENE JUARES LEON established

a military training camp about forty miles from Miami in

the Florida Everglades.

DEMPSEY was appointed camp com-

mander in charge of operations and training and was aided

by two other adventurers, MARTIN CASEY and EDMONDYKOLBY.

On March 1l, 1969, an accident occurred at the training

camp wherein GERALD BAKER, Haitian exile trainee, was

accidentally shot and died. The fourteen trainees, the

American instructors and DEMPSEY were arrested by the

Monroe County, Florida Sheriff's Office.

On March 19,

1969, at a coroner's hearing, charges against them were

dismissed and they were released.

DEMPSEY was detained

by United States

Immigration officials and voluntarily

ceturned to canada on March 41,

departed from the United States 1969. gun expense and

MM T-I explained that DEMPSEY is now living in

London, Ontario, Canada, is still in contact with LEON,

and wants to travel to South Caicos Island, Bahamas, as

a member of an advance party for LEON's men. There

DEMPSEY and several other Americans will make preparations

to

receive the rest of LEON's men for a proposed invasion

of Haiti. DU

DEMPSEY said that Air Canada is on strike and

the only other way he can get to South Caicos is via

Miami but he fears arrest by Immigration and Naturaliza-

tion Service authorities if he returns to the United

MM

T=1 described DEMPSEY as follows:

Race

Sex

Date of birth

Place of birth

Height

Weight

White

Ma le

February 15, 1941

Canada

5'9"

155 pounds

CONTIDRNTIA L

- 2 -

DocId: 32316575 Page 5

---

