# docid-32300206

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10226-10486

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-86406-28

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 09/21/1970

PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS :

GPH, ASSOC, ANTI-COMMUNIST BRIGADE, MILITARY

TRAINING CAMP, FL EVERGLADES, INTERPEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC R/S, S/S, LHM

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

90-20 54464 Date:

v9.1

HH 54464

24

DocId: 32300206

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 105-3973

CONFIDE

1 - U. S. Coast Guard, Miami

1 = U. S. Customs, Miami

1 - U. S. Customs, Region II, Miami

1

- 111th MI Group, Orlando, Florida

~ NISO, Charleston, South Carolina

- OSI, Patrick Air Force Base, Florida

1 - CIA, Miami

1= U.S. Secret Service.

Mậm:

MOM T-1 18 fOrmer MA 639-5. 4) 4)

Enclosed IHM is being classified "Confidential"

to better protect a former source who was of continuing

value.

LEADS

LOS ANGELES

At Los Angeles, California:

Will submit FD-128 to change the 00 to Miami.

MIAMI

At Miami, Florida:

Continue to follow and report the activities of

the subject.

-2-

CONF

THAT

"it"

NW 54464 DooId: 32300206 Page 2

---

## Page 3

JNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

Miami, Florida

File No. 105-3973

DECLASSIIED BY 9803 RODIKSHeDt ember 22, 1970

1-1:93 (JFK)

RE: GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, JR.

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA

CONFIDENTIAL

18/2

MM T-1 who has been engaged in Cuban revolution-

ary activities during the past twelve years and who has

been closely associated with GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, JR.

for the past nine years, from 1961 to the present time,

has furnished the following information concerning

HEMMING: (X) U)

In May,

1961,

"Major" GEORGE TANNER formed an

anti-Communist brigade in Miami, Florida. This group

of about:

40 men consisted of mercenaries and

adventurers

HEMMING later took over the group, operated a military

training camp in the Florida everglades, and changed the

name of the organization to Intercontinental Penetration

Forces (INTERPEN).

IN THIS DOCUMENT./

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

At that time,

HEMMING claimed to have been

previously involved in training of Cuban paratroopers

in Nicaragua and Cuba for FIDEL CASTRO RUZ, Prime Minister

of Cuba. HEMMING also claimed that he had previously

worked for the Cuban Revolutionary Air Force in Cuba.

U)

1961, HEMMING's group of 40 mer

dwindled

considerable press publicity. Many photographs appeared

(V) 40n ne l recruitsand HEMMING contiued to get

in the Miami press of his recruits wearing uniforms,

carrying weapons, and living in jungle training camps.

During this time, the several Sheriff's Departments in

South Florida received numerous complaints concerning

this group and their military training activities.

declaring

ALL INFORT

ON CONTAINED

E/ED

EStO

Classified by

ind

Declassify on:

S. A. Richard M. Alu aeo

MEon

74245882

JADR 379184

Date

JAN 2-1-1977

105-86 406-28

ENCLOSURE

Couri

NW 54464 DooId: 32300206

Page 3

---

## Page 4

RE: GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, JR.

CONFIDES TAL

On July 2, 1961, HEMMING with about five

mercenaries and Cuban exiles dressed in military uni-

forms, put on an air drop parachuting show for the

press at the airport at Davie, Florida.

HEMMING and

his men were interviewed and he received considerable

press publicity in south Florida for being a person who

Also in July. 1961, HEMMING was contacting

different Cuban exile groups in Miami offering them

training camp facilities, and seeking their contributions

in dollar donations and weapons.

1. On August 24, 1961, HEMMING claimed he went to

Cuba and contacted representatives of the Cuban under-

ground. ANTONIO PEREZ QUESADA, Cuban exile boat captain,

on interview admitted he took HEMMING and six others to

Cuba on August 12, 1961 where they stayed about 42 hours.

However, neither HEMMING nor his men made any contact

with the Cuban underground or militia.

*(Й)

On March 30, 1962, as a result of press publicity,

HEMMING decided to diswaid other mercenaries and adventurers

from coming to Miami to join his organization.

HEMMING

therefore sent out hundreds of form letters to persons

who previously made

inquiry concerning joining INTERPEN.

In March, 1962, most of the leading Cuban exile

organizations had disavowed any cooperation with HEMMING.

Most of the groups felt HEMMING was making a living at

the expense of the revolution and had no real intention

of taking his group to Cuba to fight against Communism.

In May, 1962, most of HEMMING's mercenaries

considered HEMMING completely unreliable in that he had

taken no positive action and appeared to be more interested

(u)

-2-

COm

54464 DooId: 32300206 Page 4

---

