# docid-32301491

## Page 1

" Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/19/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10278-10326

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-6054-760

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/25/1964

'PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBER, SCAFIDI, ROCCO, RES, VISITORS, REL,

MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

DocId: 32301491

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 1F-14-Z717 12-13-561

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 9/25/64

(Type in plain text or code)

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

FROM

RE

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, PHILADELPHIA (92-1027 Sub D)

• LA COSA NOSTRA;

AR

JUNE

Re Philadelphia airtel, 9/18/64.

WEEKLY SUMMARY

The following is a summary of information fur-

nished by PH 705-C* during the period 9/19/64 through

9/24/64:

on 9/19/64 source provided only domestic ac-

tivities regarding ROCCO SCAFIDI.

Visitors came to the

apartment but retired to the kitchen out of range of the

source and furnished no intelligible information.

On 9/20/64 this activity was repeated.

On 9/21/64. ROCCO SCAFIDI was overheard telling an

unknown person that on the previous Friday he had fallen off

a truck at vork and that his thigh was bruised.

He could

not go to work because of his injury.

Source

• then called

the Agent in Philadelphia and furnished the same information

about the injury.

SCAFIDI arranged for a doctor's appoint-

ment with his brother, SAM.

SCAFIDI carried on a conversa-

tion in Sicilian that was not understandable to source with

an unknown telephone caller.

At 8:25 p.m. ROCCO SCAFIDI

REC- 26

si3 - Bureau

(92-6054)

(RM)

92-6054-700

2 - Philadelphia

(92-1027 SubEiX) 102

1 - 92-1027

SEP 9$ 196,7

JRP/Tad

15)

Approyed I

6

wiel

Spectat Agent in Charge

Sent

Per

DooId:32301491 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. "Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017.

PH 92-1027 Sub D

admitted FRANKIE, later identified as FRANK MONTE. MONTE

stayed until 8:56 p.m.

Unfortunately, during the stay in

the apartment, MONTE and FRANK NARDUCCI retired to the

kitchen of the apartment which is out of range of the source..

Note, however,

that this is the first occasion that any of

SCAFIDI's criminal associates have visited apartment.

ROCCO

SCAFIDI was noted to leave with FRANK MONTE at 8:56 p.m. and

returned at 9:43 p.m.

on 9/22/64 a caller came to the apartment and later

was identified as FRANK MONTE. Other activities of the day only

pertained to domestic affairs of ROCCO SCAFIDI and his injury.

on 9/23/64 ROCCO SCAFIDI discussed a .32 caliber Colt

with his wife,

HELENA. He said, "he had one and I had one."

ROCCO described the gun as "insurance"

and "to protect your-

self.

On 9/24/64 source furnished details of described

domestic affairs of ROCCO and HELENA SCAFIDI. ROCCO again

called the Philadelphia Agent from his home.

It was ascer-

tained that his telephone will be disconnected if he cannot

pay a $32 phone bill.

Note that one of the primary reasons for having the

above source was to check on the activities of PH 672-0-TE.

During this week informant, independent of this source, has

reported accurately on the activities of FRANK MONTE.

Tuesday, 9/22/64, MONTE propositioned informant to go on an

armed holdup. He furnished informant with a .32 caliber Colt.

con pro of cloned

Informant has shown this gun to Philadelphia Agents during an

interview.

Informant foolishly went on this attempted holdup,

which did

not materialize.

It is evident from the above that this source is

valuable on checking the activities of the informant. It is

noted that informant frequently and foolishly talks over matters

with his wife, such as the above-described gun, which enables

Agents handling him to repeatedly admonish him not to divulge

his association with the FBI. He is repeatedly urged not to

make phone calls to contacting Agents except from pay phones.

-2-

DocId: 32301491 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

9/25/64

AIRTEL

REGISTBRED MAIL

TO

PROM

RE

DIRBCTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAG, PHILADEIPHIA (92-1027 Sub D).

LA COSA NOSTRA,

AR

JUNg

Re Philadelphia airtel, 9/18/64.

WEEKLY SUMMARY

the following 1s a summary of Information lux.

nished by PH 705-c+ during the period 91904 througi

On 9/19/64 source provided only domestic ac-

t1v1ties regarding ROCCO SCAFIDI. Visitors came to the

apartment but retired to the kitchen out of range of the

source and furnished no Intelligible Information.

On 9/20/64 this activity was repeated.

On 9/21/64 ROCCO SAPIDI was overheard telling an

unknown person

that on the previous triday he had fallen off

a truck at ork and that his thigh was brulsed.

He could

not go to work because of hia injury. Source

then called

the Agent in Philadelphia and furnished the same Information

about the injury.

SCAFIDI arranged for a doctor's appoint-

ment with his brother, saM.

SCAPIDI carTled on a conversa-

tion In S1e1l1an that was not understandable to source with

an unknown telephone caller. At 8:25 p.. ROCCO SCAFIDI

3- Bureau (92-6054) (RM)

2 - Philadelphia

(92-1027 Sub D)

JRP/1ad

Lad 92-1037

DocId: 32301491 Page 4

---

## Page 5

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 92-1027 Sub D

Untortunately, during the stay in

the apartment, MONTE and FRANK NARDUCCI retired to the

kitchen of the apartment which is out of range of the source.

Note, however, that this is the first occasion that any of

SCAPIDI's criminal associates have visited apartment.

ROCCO

SCAFIDI was noted to leave with FRANK MONTE at 8:56 p.m. and

returned at 9:43 p.m.

on 9/22/64 a caller came to the apartment and later

identifled as FRANK MONTE,

Other activities of the day only

pertained to domestic affairs

of Rocco scaFIdI and his injury.

on 9/23/64 ROCCO SCAFIDI discussed a .32 caliber Colt

with his wife, HELENA.

He said, "he had one and I had one."

ROCCO described the gun as

"Insurance" and "to protect your-

self."

On 9/24/64 source furnished details of described

domestic affairs of ROCCO and HELENA SCAFIDI. ROCCO again

called the Philadelphia Agent from his home.

It was ascer-

tained that his telephone will be disconnected if he cannot

pay a $32 phone b111.

Note that one of the primary reasons for having the

above source was to check on the activities of PH 672-C-TE.

During this week informant, independent of this source, has

ormant, independe

activities of FRANK MONTE.

Tuesday, 9/22/64, MONTE propositioned Informant to go on an

armed holdup. He furnished informant with a .32 caliber Colt.

Informant has shown this gun to Philadelphia Agente during an

interview. Informant foolishly went on

this attempted holdup,

which did not materialize.

It is evident from the above that this source is

valuable on checking the activities of the informant. It is

noted that informant frequently and foolishly talks over matters

with his wife, such as the above-described gun, which enables

Agents handling him to repeatedly admonish him not to divulge

his association with the FBI. He is repeatedly urged not to

make phone calls to contacting Agents except from pay phones.

-2-

DocId:32301491 Page 5

---

