# docid-32989717

## Page 1

File #:

62-1164614

Serial Scope:

55 ТHRu5Z, 58

HH

55325

DocId: 32989717

Page 1

---

## Page 2

62-116464

1 - Mr. J."

Adams

2 - Mr. J.

A.

-Mintz

(1 - Mr.

J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

1 - Mr. T. J. McNiff

September 4, 1975

U. S. HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACLIVITIES (HSG)

RE: REQUEST FOR ALL INFORMATION

PREVIOUSLY MADE AVAILABIE BY

THE FBI TO THE SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE (SSC)

Reference is made to HSC letter dated July 22,

1975, requesting that the HSC be furnished copies of all

documents and materials provided by the FBI to the ssc.

Pursuant to an agreement reached August 19, 1975, by

representatives of this Sureau, the Department of Justice

and the HSC, all such material is being made avallable to

ISC Staff Members for review at FBI Headquarters, and

copies of material so designated by these Staff Members

will be processed for delivery to the HSC.

On August 25, 1975, upon completion of a partial

review of the material previously furnished the SSC,

Richard Vermiere, HSC Staff lenber, requested that the HSC

be furnished with documents previously given to SSC in the

following categories:

I.. Underlying Material Concerning Commnist

Influences in the Negro Movement;

Assoc. Dir. -

Dop. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

II. Current copy of Employnent Agreement;

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. -

Comp. Syst. -

III. Unsealed Material Concerning Joseph Kraft;

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv. -

IV. Laison Material.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

In compliance vith this request, attached are the

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

-requested documents.

Spoc. Inv. -

Enclosure

Training -

Lagal Coun. -

1 - The Attorney General

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y - MAIL ROOM L

TELETYPE UNIT L

WW 55325 DocABiAN Page 2

ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO AG SEE NOTE PAGE 2

SEGREI LATERIAL ATIACED

12/1!

GPO: 19750-569-920

---

## Page 3

U. S. HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (HSC)

RE: REQUEST FOR ALL INFORMATION PREVIOUSLY MADE AVAILABLI

BY THE FBI TO THE SSC

NOTE:

This material which is being furnished the HSC is

material previously furnished the SSC in response to their

request of 5/14/75, Appendices D,9; D, 20; D,]7; and Appendix C,

Part 1, 6. This material was

among documents which were

reviewed by Richard Vernière, HSC Staff Member, on 8/25/75,

and following this review, he requested copies of these

particular documents.

55325

DocId: 32989717

Page 3

---

## Page 4

[E:

SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

BEFORE COMPLETING.

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

FROM:

Intelligence Community Staff

ATTN: Central Index

FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1 HOT PAY can a document was made availabla

DOCUMENT

BRIEFING

INTERVIEW!

TESTIMONY

TOTHER

2. DATE PROVIDED

944175

3. ТО WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

SSC

3 / HSC

4. IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; five name or identification number of briefer,

interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandur ond enclosures

We spore verbal so date or item, moralive, esponse, formal roquest, othera

HSC Letter 7/22/75

?. Key dunds fine rote pastpriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are

Counterintelligence

ILa1s0n

8.

Operating procedures

SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this item)

Underlying Haterial Concerning Cormuniot Influences in the

Negro lovenent; Gurrent copy of Employuent Agreatent;

Unsealed Material concerning Joseph Kraft; Loison Material

62-116464

FMK: Emk

(4)

ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL. COMMUNITY INDEX

IN CONNECIION WITH HOUSTUDY 75

TREAT AS YELLOW

379| (6-75)

WW 55325 DocId: 32989717 Page 1

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIAT

192116464427

---

## Page 5

INSTRUCTIONS

• Type or print clearly in ink.

• Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

• "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the

information.

• If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to

HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a

copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing

substance of information and

showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted.

Commitments made to supply additional information should be

noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,

e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether

interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript

is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional

pages may be attached if necessary.

325

DocId: 32989717

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Application for Employment

FD-140 (Rev. 10-16-73)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

UINITED.STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

Date

NOTICE:

Application must be typewritten or clearly printed in black ink. All questions must be answered, if applicoble. If not, indicate NA (not applicable). Applications which

are not complete and legible will not be considered. Il space provided is not sufficient for complate answers, or you wish to furnish additional information, attach sharts of the sarre

size on this application, and number answers to correspond with questions.

Chock Position Applied For:

→Speclal Agent

[Laboratory Aid or Technicion

→ Special Agent (Accountans)

@Tronsioror

_Rodio Maintononco Technician*

Nurse

Applicanta for this position muet complete "Questionnaire for Radio Maintenanc

echnician Positior

[Clark-Stenographer

I Clerk-Typist

| Clork (See Item 4, page 2 on Fingerpr

rk pogitio

Other

1. PERSONAL HISTORY

2. Name in full (Los, firsi, middle)

b.

Social Security Number

c. Liet all other names you have used including nicknames; if female, fumish maiden name.

If you have ever used any sumames other than your true name, during what period

and under what circumstances were these names used? If you have ever legally changed your name, give date, place, and court.

d. Birth date (Month, day, year)

e. Are you a U.S. citizen? |] Yes I No

Naturalized? EYes

Place of birth

• Single

Married

• Widowed

[ Divorced

• Separated

Naturalization #

Place

Explain derivative citizenship -

2. MARITAL STATUS

Date

Place of Marriage

Date

Place of Divorce or Legal Separation

3. RESIDENCES

Present Residence Address: (Apartmons, siroor, city, store, zip code)

] No

Derivative? DYes

• No

Date

Court

No. of Children -

Court (See Section 13k)

Telephone Numbers:

Residence

Business

b. Complete address to which you wish mail or telegram sent (include zip code and telephone number if different from above)

.. Liftay bologically ALL of your residences in the past 10 yeare linclude addresses while attending school ir away from. home and all military addresses including any off

Dates

From

To

Mo.|

Day | Yr. Mo Day Yr.

Apt.

Street Address

City

State

The Foderal Bureou of Investigation is on equal opportunity employer.

HH 55325 Do0Id:32989717 Page 6

---

## Page 7

A. AYAILABILITY OF APPLICANT

1. Have you previously submitted an apolication for employment with the Federal Te. If appointed to a clerical position, I am willing to serve a minimum period or one

urenu of Investigation

b.

Are you

willing to proceed to Washington, D. C., or other duty station, at your own

expense?

WYes [No

c.

pollyon solent a lesser position if no vacancy exiate or you fail to qualify for the

Yes No

d.

Are you interest in moin then a fine let of pret wash point. en

ou must understand that regardless of preference, appointmen

ay be as Fingerprint Clerk GS 3 or Clerk GS 2 since assignments must be based o

qualifications of appointees and vacancies.

f. If appointed as a Special Agent or Radio Maintenance Technician, are you willing

and prepared to accept assignment or transfer to any part of the United States a:

Puerto Rico for either temporary or permanent duration?

@ Yes @ No

g. If appointed as a Special Agent, I agree to serve a minimum period of three

years and completely understand that I must be available for assignment where

ever my services are needed.

DJ Yes

h. Earliest date available for employment.

i. How much notice of reporting date do you need?

5. EDUCATION

Dates

Name of School

Location

High Schoole

From

To

Mo. Day Yr.l Mo. Day| Yr.

Course Pursued

Degrees of Diplomas

Colleges

Graduate School

Miscellaneous

b. Were you ever dismissed from a school, or was any disciplinary action including scholastic probation ever taken against you during your scholastic career?

School

Date

Type of Action

d. Liat any spaciol abilitias, interests, sports or hobbies with dogres of proficiency.

e. Indicate your proficiency in each phase of each foreign longuage listed as "slight, "good, " "fluent."

Name of Language

Speak

Understand

Read

Write

f. Are you a member of the bar?

→No Yes Datoís)

8. Are you a cortified publie accountant?

[No [Yes Datola)

h. Are you a licenzed outomobile apurator?

[No [Yes Statela)

_ State(a).

_State(a).

Driver's License #

b. EMPLOYMENT

List chronologically all employments, including summer and par-time employmente while attending school. All time muet be accounted for. If unemployed for a period, indicore,

sorting forth datos of unemployment.

Name and Address of Employer

a. Name

From

Dates

Salary

Posit dord Kind

Name of Supervisor

Reason for Leaving

Address

City & State

WW 55325

DocId: 32989717

Page

---

## Page 8

6. EMPLOYMENT

List chronologically oll employments, including summer and part-time employments while attending school. All time must be accounted for. If unemployed for a period, indicare,

sotting forth dates of unemployment.

Dates

Name and Address of Employer

b. Name

From

To

Mo. Day Yr. | Mo. Day Yr.

Salary

Position and Kinc

of Work

Name of Supervisor

•Reason for Leaving

Address

City & State

c. Name

Address

City & State

d. Name

Address

City & State

e. Name

'Address

City & State

f. Name

Address

City & State

8. Have you ever been dismissed or asked to resign from any employment or position you have held? No Yee .

Are Jovers or have you ever bren employed by an agency of the ederal Covemen Re Adolude puittime employment) No Yes

To you have any soure of income other than your salary or that of your spouse?

• No

•Yes

- Location

Specify each with amount

%. MILITARY RECORD

8. Are you registered for Selective Service?

DNo DYes

D. hottie Servicent lasalication? Have youre ted any note a latine you may be Cly Into the Amed Force in the near future No Yes

If so, give approximate date.

a To at or to one end or l it on in aila d. Hame you or cod on actino die in to amed one of the United suare?

Highest rank attained

Date imbisioned,

• Branch of military service

f. Serial number

To. Dates of active duty (month, day & year)

From

To

H. Type of Discharge

Basis for Discharge

i. Member of Reserve? No Yes Ready

# Standby

Service Branch

3

NH 55325 DocId: 32989717 Page 8

---

## Page 9

j. Was any type of disciplinary action taken against you in the service?

[No [Yes Nature of:

I. Do you claim veterane preferonce?

K. National Guard Procent

C Fomer

E None

I you attend drilis, meetings, or camps, give name of unit and location.

Summer camp attendance: From

. По.

Where

[J.Ye8 Basis: [ Active duty between 127-41 and 7-1-55

• Active duty subsequent to 1-31-55 in excess of 180

consecutive days

Service-connected dieability

• Wife L] Widow → Mother

who have known you during the past five years. If retired, give former occupation.

Complete name

Addresses:

Residence

No. утв. асд.

Occupation

Complete name

Business -

Addresses:

Residence

No. утв. асд.

Occupation

Complete name

Business

Addresses:

Residence

No. 3т8. асд.

Occupation

Business

Give three social acquaintances in your own age group including both sexes.

Complete name

Addresses:

Residence:

No. yra. acq.

School or Occupation

Complete name

Busine E

Addresses:

Residence

No. утв. асд.

School or Occupation

Complete name

School o

Business -

Addresses:

Residence:

No. утв. аса.

School or Occupation

School or

Business.

9. FOREIGN TRAVEL - (MILITARY SERVICE, RESIDENCE, VISIT)

a Have you ever visited of resided in any foreign country (including travel in the Armed Forces of the U. S.)? No L Yes

Passport #.

-Date issued

_Place issued -

Dates

Countries Visited

From

To

Mo. Day Yr. Mo. Day Yr.

Reason for Travel

НН 55325

DocId:32989717

Page 9

---

## Page 10

"Specity countries; dat

ved in the Armed Porces of a foreign count

No D Yea

c. Do you or any members of your immediate tamily, including in-laws, have any relatives now residing outside the United States (except those in the Armed

Forces of the United States or those employed by the United States Government living abroad)? No Yes. If so, list below and furnish desree ol

association and contact you and members of your immediate family have with these relatives.

Name

Relation

Age

Cits

Country

Citizen of what Country

10. CREDIT RECORD

• Has your credit record ever been considered unsatisfactory, or have you ever been refused credit? • No [Yes -

If "yes," give dates, places, names of creditore and circumstances.

• Are you indebted to anyone? ~ No MY€

(Liet any debt over $100.

Iso Tist any debt, regardless of the amount, where payment is past due

Creditor

Address

Amount

Loan or

Acct. #

1% COURT RECORD

a let i er been a reate i roch ed change i latin in pe rate ond no suiti or mater selle by Payment of fine or forfeiture of collateral. )

Place and Department

Charze

Final disposition

Details

(b. Has any member of your family or close relative (including in-laws) ever been arrested for other than traffic violations? ENo • Yes

Name

Relation

Date

Place

Charge

Final Disposition

co Haven, a dyir be die plain f or defendant in a court action including divorce actione? No

Yes (Give date, place, court, names of parties involved, nature of

12. ORGANIZATION MEMBERSHIP

a. Aro you now, or have you ever boen a member of any elub, society of oly nation No Yes. If yes, list belown denot apativate,

Present (List position held and extent of activity)

5

NH 55325 DocId: 32989717 Page 10

---

## Page 11

b.

Are you now, or hnve you ever been a member of the Communist Party, U.S.A., or any communist or fascist organization? No DYes

c.

Are you now or hnve you ever been a member of any foreign or domeatic organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which is totalitarian, fascia,

(If answer to ans of these is "Yes," explain fully.)

13. RELATIVES

Complete Name, including Middle Name (no initials) ; Complete Address

Occupation & Name & Address of Firn

where Employed

Naturalization or. Alien

aRd ate of Natural, Data.

if applicable

Father

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

b. Mother (Include maiden name)

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

c.

Wife or Husbond (if wife, include maiden name)

Address.

Birth date

Place of birth

d. Childron

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Namé

Address

Birth date

Place of bith

• Name

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

*;

NH 55325' Docid:32989717

Page 11

---

## Page 12

Complete Name, including Middle Name (no initials) ; Complete Address

13. RELATIVES (Continued)

Occupation & Name & Address of Fira

where Employed

e. Brothers

Address

Birth date

Name

Address

Birth date

Name

Address

Birth date

f. Sisiers

Address

Birth date

Name

Address

Birth date

Nome

Addreas

Birth date

Place of birth

Place of birth

Place of birth

Place of birth

Place of birth

Place of birth

8. Wives lincluding maiden names) and Husbands of Brothers & Sisters

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Name

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Naturalization or Alien

Registration Number, Date

and Place of Naturalization,

if applicable

NH 55325 DocId: 32989717 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Complete Name, Including Middle Name (no inltials) ; Complete Address

%. Wivos and Husbonds of Brothers & Sisters (Continued)

13. RELATIVES (Continued)

Occupation & Name & Address of Firm

where Employed

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Nomo

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Nomo

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

b. Fathor-in-law

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

i. Mother-in-law (include maiden name)

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

j. Brothers & Sisters of your Husbond or Wife

Address

_ Birth date

Place of birth

Nome

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Nome

Addreas

Birth date

Place of birth

Vaturalization or Alie

existration Number, Dal

and Place of Naturalization,

if applicable

1H 55325

DocId: 32989717 Page

13

---

## Page 14

13. RELATIVES (Continued)

Complete Name, including Middle Name (no initials) ; Complete Address

Occupation & Name & Addresa of Firm

where Employed

j. Brothers & Sisters of your Husband or Wife (Continued)

Address

Naturalization or Alien

Registration Number, Date

and Place of Naturalization,

if applicable

Birth date

Place of birth

k. Other relatives with whom you have resided for an extended period of time

(indicate relation, including name and present location of ex-spouses)

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Name

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

14. RELATIVES EMPLOYED BY THE GOVERNMENT

List the complete names of any of your close relatives (including in-laws) who are employed in the Federal Govemment.

Complete Name

Relation

Agency by which Employed

Location

15. FRIENDS OR ACQUAINTANCES EMPLOYED BY THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Complete Name

Location

Length of Acquaintance

16. RELATIVES FORMERLY EMPLOYED BY THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Complete Name under which Employed

Current Address

Relationship

MH 55325

DocId: 32989717

Page 14

---

## Page 15

ALL APPLICANTS

Attach an unmounted full face photograph of yourself, not larger than

2% x 2½ inches. Print your name plainly on the back of the photograph.

The photograph must have been taken not more than 3 months prior to

the date of this application.

17. PHYSICAL DATA

a, Height without shoes b. Do you de are dach so iver had let the folle or a distal, ormational die der of y ort; tuberculosie; epilepay, fainting

(If "yes" identify, describe, and give dates)

Weight without clothes

Do you now have or have you ever had any chronic or serious illnesses; or have you ever had any serious operations or injurie

• "yes" describe and give date

•.

d. Have you ever been hospitalized? No

Dates

Mo.

Day Yr.

C YeB

Hospital

Location

Reason

& Deline any deficiencie in pyor vilion and he direct, or disability not previously covered, bur including exient of defective vision, if any, with and without glasace

%. Ho hoo de o hive you urn one wat Nature of illnesses)

five years?

• Have so eyes it had in , granted by whom, and what an out den, yen plical e, includio terene Admini fortion cia numbery No de

ranted by whom, and what amount, when, wh

h. Special Agent Applicants Only: Do you have any physical defects such as, but not limited to, a bone, joint, or other deformity or loss of finger, which would

preclude unrestricted, regular participation in all phases-of the FBI's firearms training, physical training and defensive tactics? No Yes

(If "yes"' describe)

Lestigato i all understand that, in many of of o roo our cater leish eula ht and midnight i view o he Femust Bureat o

Signature of Applicant as Usually Written (Do not use nickname)

10

GPO: 1974 - 538-864

HY 55325' DocId: 32989717 Page.15

---

## Page 16

FD-291 (Rev. 11-1-73)

EMPLÖYMENT AGREEMENT

As consideration for employment in the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), United

States Department of Justice, and as a condition for continued employment, I hereby declare

that 1 intend to be governed by and I will comply with the following provisions:

(1) That I am hereby advised and I understand that Federal law such as

Title 18, United States Code, Sections 793, 794, and 798; Order of the

President of the United States (Executive Order 11652); and regulations•

issued by the Attorney General of the United States (28 Code of Federal

Regulations, Sections 16.21 through 16.26) prohibit loss, misuse, or un-

authorized disclosure or production of national security information, other

classified information and other nonclassified information in the files of

the FBI;

(2) I understand that unauthorized disclosure of information in the files

of the fBl or information I may acquire as an employee of the fBl could

result in impairment of national security, place human life in jeopardy, or

result in the denial of due process to a person or persons who are subjects

of an FBI investigation, or prevent the FBI from effectively discharging its

responsibilities. I understand the need for this secrecy agreement; there-

fore, as consideration for employment I agree that I will never divulge,

publish, or reveal either by word or conduct, or by other means disclose to

any unauthorized recipient without official written authorization by the

. Director of the FBI or his delegate, any information from the investigatory

files of the FBI or any information relating to material contained in the files,

or disclose any information or produce any material acquired as a part of the

performance of my official duties or because of my official status. The burden

is on me to determine, prior to disclosure, whether information may be disclosed

and in this regard I agree to request approval of the Director of the FBI in each

such instance by presenting the full text of my proposed disclosure in writing to

the Director of the FBI at least thirty (30) days prior to disclosure. I understand

that this agreement is not intended to apply to information which has been placed *

in the public domain or to prevent me from writing or speaking about the FBI but

it is intended to prevent disclosure of information where disclosure would be

contrary to law, regulation or public policy. I agree the Director of the FBI is

in a better position than I to make that determination;

(3) I agree that all information acquired by me in connection with my official

duties with the FBi and all official material to which I have access remains

the property of the United States of America, and I will surrender upon demand

by the Director of the FBI or his delegate, or upon separation from the FBI, any

material relating to such information or property in my possession;

(4) That I understand unauthorized disclosure may be a violation of Federal

law and prosecuted as a criminal offense and in addition to this agreement may

be enforced by means of an injunction or other civil remedy.

I accept the above provisions as conditions for my employment and continued employment

in the FBI. I agree to comply with these provisions both during my employment in the FBI and

following termination of such employment.

HH

55325

(Signature)

henry captint names

Witnessed and accepted in behalf of the Director, FBI, on

, 19

-, by

DocId:32989717

Page 16

62116464-58

(Signature)

---

## Page 17

TANDARD FORM 6

EVISED SEPTEMBER 197

U.S. CIVIL

SERVICE COMMISSIOT

F.P.M. CHAPTER 295

61-107

OMB APPROVAL NO. 50-R0118.

APPOINTMENT AFFIDAVITS

JUSTICE

(Department or agency)

(Position to which appointed)

FBI

(Bureau or division)

. I,

(Date of appointment)

WASHINGTON, D. C.

(Place of employment)

-, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that—

A. OATH OF OFFICE

I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and

domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that. I take this obligation freely,

without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge

the duties of the office on which I am about to enter. So help me God.

B. AFFIDAVIT AS TO STRIKING AGAINST THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

I am not participating in any strike against the Government of the United States or any agency

thereof, and I will not so participate while an employee of the Government of the United States or

any agency thereof.

C. AFFIDAVIT AS TO PURCHASE AND SALE OF OFFICE

I have not, nor has anyone acting in my behalf, given; transferred, promised or paid any con-

sideration for or in expectation or hope of receiving assistance in securing this appointment.

(Signature of appointee)

Subscribed and sworn (or affirmed) before me this

_day of

'A.D. 19

at

WASHINGTON, D. C.

(City)

(State)

[SPAL]

Commission expires

(I by a Notary Public, the date of expiration

of his Commission should be shown

(Signature of officer)

sofTitle).

HH 55325

ao at to gather that soor to the afidwits; only these words may be stricken and only when the appointee

DocId: 32989717

Page 17

-GPO: 19700-408-925

---

## Page 18

3-26 (Rev. 3-20-84)

• Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

• United States Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20535

Dear Sir:

(Place)

(Date)

Having received an appointment for a position as Special Agent in the Federal

Bureau of Investigation, United States Department of Justice, I hereby agree and affirm

that I shall be governed by the following conditions:

1. I am required to proceed at my own expense to Washington, D. C.,

where I shall take the oath of office and enter on duty.

2. That my appointment is a probationary one.

3. That I shall remain on duty for a minimum period of three years,

contingent upon a satisfactory work record.

4. That my retention in the Federal Bureau of Investigation is dependent

upon the performance of satisfactory services, and if my services are

deemed unsatisfactory it is understood that my employment may be dis-

continued at any time and that I shall not receive transportation to my

home, or to any other point, at Government expense.

5. I may be sent to any part of the continental or territorial United States

that the exigencies of the Bureau's work may require; that my head-

quarters may be fixed in some jurisdiction other than that in which I

have heretofore resided; that my headquarters may be changed as the

work of the Bureau may require and that no transfer will be made from

one station to another for personal reasons.

6. That the confidential character of the relations of the employees of

the Federal Bureau of Investigation with the public is fully understood

by me, and that the strictly confidential character of any and all in-

formation secured by me, in connection directly or indirectly with my

work as a Special Agent, or the work of other employees of which I

may become cognizant, is fully understood by me, and that neither

during my tenure of service with the Federal Bureau of Investigation

nor at any other time shall I violate this confidence, and I agree and

affirm that I shall not divulge any information of any kind or character

whatsoever that may become known to me, to persons not officially

entitled thereto at any time.

I understand all of the foregoing and the conditions specified herein are agree-

able to me without reservation of any kind. I agree and affirm that I shall abide by the

foregoing conditions, and I am fully cognizant that the provisions mentioned above are

to be complied with by me and they are a part of my appointment.

Very truly yours,

MH 55325

Do0Id:32989717 Page 18

---

## Page 19

FD-375 (Rev. 8-28-72)

UNI

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JI

ULICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Washington, D. C.

20535

Date:

TRAINING AGREEMENT

In consideration for the following specialized training which will result in considerable time and expense

to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI, I,

_ agree to

remain in the service of the FBI (or Department of Justice, as to final item below) for the time specified, contingent

upon my maintaining a satisfactory work record.

_ So that I may receive training in classifying,

searching, and filing of fingerprints, I agree to remain in the servic

f the FBI performing fingerprint duties for at least one year from this date. I understand that I may be assignec

consistent with the demands of the service, to work at night.

→ So that I may receive training in I stenographie I typing skills, I agree to remain in the FBI for a minimum

of one year after completion of training. In addition,

lagree to accept any assignment in any division at FBIHQ

or Washington Field Office consistent with such needs for my services.

So that I may receive training in [ automatic data processing equipment [ cryptanalytics, I agree to remain

in the FBI one year after completion of formal training.

• So that I may receive training in a foreign language, I agree to remain in the FBI for three years after I success-

fully complete this training.

• So that I may receive advanced training in maintenance and repair of FM radio equipment, I agree to remain in the

service of the FBI for at least one year following completion of the training.

• So that.I may receive training under the Government Employees Training Act to be given me at

., I agree to remain in the Department of Justice for a minimum of

. after completion of training. If I voluntarily leave the Department before

expiration of that period, I will pay the Government the amount of the additional expenses paid by it for the

above-mentioned training.

Signature

HH 55325

DocId: 32989717

Page 19

---

## Page 20

UNITED STATES GOVERN IT

Memorandum

TO

MI. A. H. Belmont

DATE:

10-15-63

IRONS :

• Mo. W. C. Sullivan

SCHIỆCT

COMMUNISM AND THE NEGRO MOVEYE

A CURRENI ANALYSIS

Ine enclosed article, captioned as above, is the

one we nave been preparing in line with approval of

our

recommendation to disseminate it on a select basis at a

very high level to show current communist activities in

relation to the Negfo movement.

It incorporates up-to-date

material just received iron our New York Oiiice relating

to the recent meeting of the Communist Party's National

Executive Committee.

Discussion of racial matters was a

primary topic at the week-long meeting.

. The enclosed article is a factual, documented

analysis of the over-all cursent situation.

We believe

that it would be of interest not only to the Attorney General

but also to Mr: O'Donnell,

at the white

House; Nic. NcCone, at

the Central Intelligence Agency; Mr. Rusk, ât

the Department

of State; as well as to MI. McNamara and the three Armed Forces

intolligence agencies of the Defenge Department.

Accoidingly,

I ine article as prepared is approved, we propose to ais-

pisses to the foremen loned indiriduals and agencies a

RECOMMENDATION:

That the enclosed article be approved.

If approvea,

it should be returned to the Domestic Intelligence Division

for preparation of appropriate letters of transmittal.:

Lade sons ding.

This document is prenared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

artion outside wor Commitice.

I's ae is limind to official proceedings by

song Conimie al the comfort may not

ir disclosed to unauthorized person

net ithout the rest approp on the sil

HH 55325

DacId:32989717: Paye: 20

---

## Page 21

10/17/53

MR. TOLSON:

• The attached analysis of

¡Communism and the Negro Movement is

(highly explosive. It can be regarded as

a personal attack on Martin Luthering.

"There is no doubt it will have a heavy

impact on the Attorney General and anyone

else to whon ve cisseminate it.

It is

labeled TOP SECKET. However, even such a

high classification seems to be no bar

already be in the cards as a

political

issue during the forthcoming Presidontial

campaign.

The memorandum makes good reading and

lis based on information from reliable sources.

tHe may well ve charged, however, with

expressing opinions and conclusions, parti-

cularly with reference to some of the

statements about King.

We must do

our duty. H

This memorandum may stagile the Attorney

General, particularly in view of his past

association with king, and the fact that we

are disseminating this outside the Department.

He may resent

• this.

Nevertheless, the

momorandun is a powerful varning against

Communist influence in the regro novement.

antwe"vill be carrying out our'

responsibility

by dissominating it to the people indicated

I in/the attached memorandu, sul

I am glad that →

you recognize

У млі,

at last that there

Lin

exists such influence. H

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not. for dissemi-

natim outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-

nel without the express approval of the FBI .

HH 55325, • DocId: 32989717 Page 21

---

## Page 22

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandur

TO

•A. H. Belmont

DATE: 10-18-63

FROM :

W. C. Sullivan

SUBJECT:

COMMUNISM AND THE NEGRO M272

A CURRENT ANALYSES

• Re my memo in captioned matter 10-15-33, attached, in,

which it vas recommended and approved that we disseminate tie.

prepared analysis regarcing communist activities and the ivegro moverant

on a select basis to individuals and agencies set forth in referenced ramo.

Attached are appropriate letters of transmittal for

dissemination. Through them, we and sendig a coby of the analysis to

the Attorney General, with a copy each for the Deputy Attorney Cenerci,

and the Assistant Attorneys General Eurke Marshall and. Walter Yeagley.

In addition, a copy is being sent as an enclosure to attached letters for

P. Kennsth O'Donnell, Special Assistant to the President; the Honorable •

Dean Fusk, Socretary of State; the Eonorable John A. McCone, Director Of

Central Intelligence Agency; the Zonorable Robert S. McNamara, Secretary Of

• Defense; Rear Admiral Fufus L. Taylor, Director of Naval Inteiligence;

Major General Alva P. Fitch, Assistani Chief oi Staff for Army Intelligence;

and Brigadier General John S. Santuel, Director of Special Investigations:

mini for the Air Force.

RECOLOGENDATION:

That the attached letters be approved and sent

•???

Enclosures

•amato colos does

1035

This dominend is

prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

potside

10:2 Committec.

Its use as lanted to official moreedings bu

• initi, e cad the content man not be disciosed to unauthorized veison-

linout the express approval of the. RBI

56925

'DoCTd:32989717. Page

---

## Page 23

The Attorney General

October 18, 1963

Director, FBI

"CONMUNIS AND THE NEGRO LOVEMENT--.

A CURRENT ANALYSIS"'

There is enclosed a copy of a curren't study

dealing with coumunist activities

in relation to the Negro

movement.

A copy of this document is being furnished

to the Honorable P. Kenneth C'Donnall, Special Assistant

•to the President, and to other interested officials of

the Government.

The sources used in the enclosurs, entitled

"Communism and the

Negro lovenent-d Current Analysis,"

have furnished reliable information in the past, and

because of their sensitive nature, the cocument

has been

classified "Top Seczet."

Upon renoval of classified

enclosure, this letter bacones unclassified.

Enclosure

•1 - The Deputy Attorney General (Enclosure)

•1 • fir, Burke Marshall (Enclosure)

•Assistant Aitorney General

1 - lir. J. Halter Yeagley (Enclosuze)

Assistani Attorney General

This document is prepared in respons lo our request and is unt for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

li, use is limited to official proceedings bi

your Committce and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

HR 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 23

---

## Page 24

October 18, 1963

BY LIAISON

honorable P: Kenneth O'Donnell

special Assistant to the President

The white House

washington, D. C.

Dear dr. @'Donnall:

I thought you would be interested in the enclosod

current study entitled "Comunisu and the Negro lovement-

A Cursent Analysis. "

Copies of this document are being

immitmcg to mersi mificiais oi the covernment.

The sources used in the enclosusa have furnished

reliable information in the past, and because of their

sensitive nature, the document has been classified "Top

jecret."

Upon rchoval of classified enclosure,

this

letter becomes unclassified.

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Enclosura

This document is prepared in respri: to yany request and is not for dissemi

nation outside your Committee. Ali use i

limited to official proceedings by

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorzed person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

HH 55325

DocId: 32989717 Page 24

---

## Page 25

October 18, 1963

BY LIAISON

Honorable Dean Rusk

the secretary or state

nashington, D. C.

Dear fir. Rusk:

I thought you would be interested in the enclosed.

current study

entitled "Communisn and the nagro movement

A Curront mnaiysis."

Gupies of this docunent are boing

furnished to interested officials of the Government.

The sources used in the enclosure have furnished

reliable information in the past, and becausi of their

sensitive natuss, the document has been classified "Iop

secrst."

Upon renoval of classified enclosure, this

latter becomes unclassified.

sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Enclosure

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for assemi-

nation outside your Commiltee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

your commuttee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person-

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

HN 35329 D00Id. 32909717

Page 25

---

## Page 26

October 18, 1963

BY LIAISON

Honorable John A. HicCone

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

Dear No. licCone: •

I thought you would be interested in the enclosed

urrent study i

A Cursent Analysisi"

furnistied to Intarested officiais of the bovernmont.

The sources used in the enclosure have furnished

reliable information in thi

nast and horales of thair

sensitive nature, the documont has been classified "Top

Secret." Upon renoval of classified enclosuse, this

letter

• bocomes unclassified.

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Enclosure

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dassem-

nation outside your Committee.

Its use as limited to official proceedings 03

your committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unuuthorized verson

nel without the express approval of the FBl.

HN 33329 DocId.32989717

F848-26

---

## Page 27

October 18, 1963

BY LIAISON

Honorable Robert S. PicNamara

The secretary of Defense

Washington, D. C.

Dear l2. McNamara:

I thought you would be interested in the enclosea

A Current Analysis."

furnished to interustea otticials of the. durcemene.

The sources used in the enclosure have finished

cause antonation in the post, aro bocause of thoir

sensitive nature, the document has been classified "Top

Secrut." Upon removal of classified enclosure, this

letter beconos unclassified.

Sincersly Yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

This document is prepared in response to you request and is not for dissemi..

nation outside your Committee.

Its use as limited to official proceedings by

your Committee and the ratort may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person-

nel without the piness ap ourt of the FBI .

HH 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 27

---

## Page 28

October 18,1963

.. BY LIAISON

Rear Admiral Rufus L. Taylor

Director. of Naval intelligence

The Pentagon

Washington, D. C.

Dear Admiral taylor:

I thought you would be interested in the enclosed

current study entitled "Communisn and the Negro movement-

A Current Analysis." Copies of this document are being

furnished to interasted officials of the Government.

The sources used in the enclosure have furnished

•reliable information in the past, und because of their

sensitive nature, the aocument has been classified "Top

secret." Uoon removal of classiried enclosure, this

letter becomes unclassified.

Sincarcly yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Enclosure

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited. to official procecaings.ou

your Committee and fr.. on. ant mail nut be disclosed to unanthorized person

nel without thie:

•I of th FBI.

HH 55325 DocId:32989717 Page

28

---

## Page 29

October 18, 1963

**'"BY LIAISON

Major General Alva R. Fitch

Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence

Departmont of the Army

The Pentagon

trashington, D. C.

Dear General Fitch: •

i thought you would ha interisted in the snolosed

current study ontitled "Communism and the Negro lovement-

A Current Analysis." Copies of this document are being

furnished to interested officials of the Covenment.

The sources used in the enclosure have furnished

reliable information in the past, and because of their

so ye mature the document hos heen classified "lop

Upon renoval of classiiied enclosure, this

lotter becomss unclassified.

sinceroly yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Enclosure

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings 01

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI .

HH 55325

DocId: 32989717

Page 29

---

## Page 30

:::

.?...

.:.

Uctober 18, 1963

BY LIAISON

Brigadier General John S. jamuel

Director of ipecial investigationg

The inspector Ganeral

vepartront of the air torce

Building tempo b

Fourth and Adams Drive, 5. W.

Washington, D. C.

'Doar General Samuel:

thought you would be interested in the enclosed

current study entitled "Concunion and the liegeo lovement-

A Current Analysis."

Copies of this docunent are being

furnichod to

interistar nificials of the Government.

The sources

used in the enclosure have furnished

reliable information in the past, and because of their

sensitive nature, the document has been classified "Top

secrot."

Joon ronoval oi classified enclosuro, this

letter

• bacomes unclassified.

sincerely yours,

---

J. Edgar Hoover

Enclosure

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for cassemi-

nation outside your Committee.

It's use is linted to official proceedings by

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person-

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

HW 55325

DocId: 32989717 Page 30

---

## Page 31

'?

осни хо. 10

UNITED STATES GOVER

ENT

Memorandum

TO

MR. BELMONT

DATE: Cctober 25, 1963

FROM :

C. A. EVANS

SUBJECT:

COMMUNISM AND TRE

NEGRO MOVEMENT

The Attorney General telephoned at approximately a. a.m.

He advised that he had tried to call the Director who was temporarily out of

, the building. The Attorney General stated he had just learned that the Limy

had received a copy of a report submitted to the Attorney General about the

communist activities of vartin Isther King. The Attorney. General was reich, the

to the report captioned "Communism and the Negro Movement -- A Current.

Analyses, " dated October 16, 1963. There is no question this is the report.

to wnich he is referring. althougn he persisted on calling it the report on the

¡communist background of Martin Luther King.

The Attorney General said he would like to know what other

dissemination was made of this report in addition to the Army and the purpose

for such dissemination. He was obviously irritated. He went on to ask if the

'Army got copies of all reports submitted to him. I tolà the Attorney General that

obviously the Army did not get copies of all reports we sent to him personally,

but that there were hundreds of reports that did go to the Army that did not

concern matters of sufficient importance to warrant the Attorney General's personal

attention. I pointed out to him that we regularly submitted some type of reports

in matters of current interest under our Internal Security jurisdiction, and that

dissemination of these summaries was made to the military authorities as well

as other top governmental officials because of responsibilities they have in this

connection.

The Attorney General asked what responsibilities the Army had in

relation to the communist background of Martin Luther King. I told the Attorney

General the report went beyond this and that the Array had an interest in communist

lactivities particularly in relation to racial matters because the military had to be:

callcd on if civil disturbances arising out of such matters went beyond the ability

•of the civilian authorities.

This explanation seemed to serve no purpose." The Attorney General

said he still could not understand why we sent a report to the Army on King's

communist activities. He reiterated his request for information as to the dissemina

tion of the report in question and the purpose for it.

55325 DocId: 32989717 Page 31

---

## Page 32

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

RE: COMMUNISM AND THE NEGRO MOVEMENT

ACTION TO BE TAKEN:

We are getting together the facts regarding the dissemination

of this report and the basis therefor which will be incorporated in a

memorandum for the Attorney "General:

.77:

grane tabled is a..

She is satra id.

This document is prepared in response to lour request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

Ils ise is limini to official proceedings by

your Committe aud the content may no: ba disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

-2=

H# 55325° DocId:32989717 Page 32

---

## Page 33

e coures

sisues

THE ATTOINSY GENRRÄL

October 25, 1963

DireCtOI, IBL

O:I:0HISM AZTD TEX NEGHO LEOVEMENITO

"CURTATT ATÁLISIO"

ianis t:+10492592-503tms.om

Tiith roference to your inquiry conceming tha

desenination of the suannry puopared uados rate oi

OctobcI 16, 1083, captiozod "Coumunion

ane ti0 egro

Hoyeneni. Curfoat Analygie,

Tis you veré

advised in 27

Totisi dated Cossboz 10,

icionig

this desozancan tas ciooaai

antod on n lop secret: cecis to fonoranie 2. Kionnotl OPuluoll,

Opcoial Assisioni do thosrzosiuont, and to other interested

oifácials oi thc govornuont.

Thosa zaclucod:

This Bonorzble

Daan rush, Geerotasz of State; Tha Lonorable John d. lccono,

Directos of uho Concrai "lacctligence Agoney; tas Lonorablo

BONOTE S• NOIAHEIE:

-30706623 06 DOICBS21 7023' M003781 RUZuS L

[taylos,

Diroctor oi nurai insciiironce; lajos Conozal Alvieiil.

Fitci,

Assisinns Chiod oa

3t22%

.maay.2n00,122030eg

Exigaatáo-dunoral Joim 8. Gransi, Dircctor oi jucoial investl

satdouS iut the die Forge; end Conoral D. d. Ghodp, Cogoaadant

oi tho

Marino Cosrs.

wwo redol' t1 0110-40008te

In rion of the intozest wlich these incividuals and

organizaiions baco

iu coummisn mnd ito attonpss to inciltraio

various grougs and aocividios in the insiicen coumudty, it bus

been oux standard procacuro to pariodically dissontazie to thes

Infornazlon shich incicaios "ths communiat mizoria in this coanec-

tion, aud in this particuloi instance ve doiloued the ustai

PrOCCdUrO.

sLen roicience to the rasschination to te Aruy, Blo

AlTY LAG S0OCIIeA гled CaC, IH FiGH Of 103 19000151-

billty.

coatrol o. cctiritios

aud

sisuonstrabions boyong

the conccity of locnl agenctes,.

na koen it cuaronily aivised,

cuacumdst activiuios in tus incial sicia and in odcor. rroag

wnich nicht result in uenonstratlong or disfioultios

This docament is aicpared in. response to your request und is not for dissemi-

mnlinn prisile vouy Commiilee.

I's suse is lanited to official procecdinas bu

•C mnaertee uiud the conlent iay not oe disciosed to unauthorized person-

aul irithout the eupiess approval of the FBl .

HH 55325 DocId: 32989717 Page 33

---

## Page 34

stic

FROM

OPTIGMAS FORM NO, 10

HAT 1867 85,110 M

CSe ¿AM, A15. NO.21

CITED STATES

Memorandum

010-806

MENT

•Mr.-W. C. Sullivan

D. J. Brennan, jI.

DATE:

October 25, 1963

SUBJECT:

"COMMUNISH NO THE NEGRO NOVENENT -

A CURRENT ANALYSIS"

Sranch, U. S.

геротт,

0§ Naval intelligence.

_which had been disseninated to Admiral Rudus Taylor, Corncdent

ACCOrding tO Major Karshall

, Karina

David 5. Suoup haw expressed a personal

desire to review wis

11--

fornation and inasmuch as his office had not been furished this

data, he requested that an extra copy be disceninated to lim.

In accordance with General Shoup's request, a copy was

funished to Major. Marshall on 10/24/60.

Major Marsaall was inpressed

with the extremely sensitive nature of the information set forth

in the docunent and was appropriaiely admonished to insure that

proper security is afforded it.

ACTION:

for information.

This document is piepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation quite for commer

c the client may not those to porcines bi

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

HH (55325

DocId: 32989717 Page 34

---

## Page 35

linice

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

MASHINGION 25, D. C.

In Reply, Ploase Refer 10

File Ne.

4:14 p.m.

October 25, 1963

MEMORANDUM, TO MD.. TOISONI

MR. BELMONT

MR. MOHR

MR. DE LOACH

MR. ROSEN

MR. SULLIVAN

The Attorney, General called and advised me there was

a lot of talk at the Pentagon regarding the document, Communism

and the Negro A Current Analysis, dated 10-16-63, which had

been disseminated to the military and intelligence agencies by the

Bureau. The Attorney General anticinated that this information

would leak out as the military didn't like the Negroes.

: The Attorney General felt we should get back all. copies

of the document. I told him we had a tally of all copies and we

would get them from all agencies to which they were disseminated.

The reason to be given for recalling wouid be revisions. I also

- told him if any newspapers asked about this, no comment would be

made and no mention wouid be made that such a document existed.

4:40 p. m.

I advised the Attorney General that Liaison repre-

sentatives had been sent to get all copies of this document.

The Attorney General wants all copies disseminated to

*Department officials recalled also.

Very. truly yours,

document is prepared in response to your request and is not for duent

Its use is

id to official procedure-bu

all seconds a honot be

Mood to mauthorzederson

Fil.

John Edgi: Hoover

Director.

• airigi

wei"

NW 55325 DocId: 32989717

Page 35

---

## Page 36

0.05: 001

Novomber ?, 1063

MESICRANDUA TO MR. TOLSON

• MIT. DS LOACH

MIZ. ROSEN

HiR. SULLIVAN

Ca October 20, 1003, tho Attornoy General called at say office

and discussed a nuraber oi luatiora.

Mon in s

JEH

This document is perpared crope in

on camerat and is not for dissemi-

nation waite tove ram

"i in official

meer as bu

"iculosed to unauthored person-

nil without this c."

MH 55325 DocId: 32989717 Page, 36

---

## Page 37

Memorandum to lesars. Tolsca, Belnost, Deloach,

Tosca, sullivan

Noveraber 7, 1063

The Attornay Genaral thon mentioned the recent monograph ou

Communiar in tho racial situatic.

Tie atated ibat the Dafonso-Dapartment

had acrieed biza of it. I told hion that he had aloo been furniched a copy t

the same tizo that we bad made distribution to tha Defense Departuert,

the finite Rouse, tho Contral Inclligence agancy, and the State Dopartment.

he chatsd tiat ho was quito concerzed abou tho cosient bocause walle it

did 202 State that king was& Communist, nevertboloss, one could gulosly

draw that coaclucion.

I told hind that evory statemont mado in tho documout

waz accurato aud cupported by facis.

In stated he of course realized thin but felt that it would be

desirable to recall all oí the documents bacauso ho did not Inow wro else

migit 50g l other tina those to whom no had diatricuted tho docursont. i

told the Attornay Caneral that his regsest would be imracdiatoly acted upos,

and after the Attorney Coreral leit my citico i communieated with

dit. Belmont and asled him to sse that all coglos oi too docament Lad

been outained and lept in socurity.

Very tzuly youra,

JER

John Edgar Hooves.

DIECCEON

Thes document is prepared un response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside cour commiter.

1:3 are 29 102.cil to official proceedings ou

your Committcè aud the content may not be disclosed to unuuthorized person.

nel without the express approval of the FBI .

2989717 Pages 77.

---

## Page 38

Gautatone

D

ROM

COJECT:

OPTIONAL ICAM MO. 1O

GSA 61. 81G. 10.27.

UNITED STATES GOVER. YMENT

Memorandum

8018-106

'571469-ah e

W..C. Sullivan

J. A. Sizoo

DATE: 10-25-63

COMMUNISM AND TEE NECRO ILOVE 312--

A CURRENT ANALYSIS

2o was

In accordance with Mr. Belmont's instructions yesterday,

liaison Agents contacted the various incividuals to whom copies of our

memorandum, captioned as above dated Cotober I6, 1953, were sent,

except Mr. C'Donnell and the officials in the Justice Department.

We have now recovered copies which had been designated

to Eonorable Dean Fusk, Secretary Of State; The Eonorable John A. McCone,

Director of the Central Intelligence Agercy; The Eonorable Robert S.

Mcitamara, Secretary Oi Defense; Rear Admiral Pufus L. Taylor,

Director ci Naval Intelligence; Major General Alv. P. Fitch, Assistant

Chief of Staff for Army Intelligence; Brigadier General John S. Samuel,

Director of Special Investigations for the Air Force; and General D. M.

Shoup, Commandant of the Marine Corps. In each instance, a specific

inquiry was made as to whether of not any copies of the document had

I been prepared and in each instance the answer was in the negative.

As it now stands, the persons huing copies outside the Bureau

fare the Attorney General, Eonorable 2. Kenneth O'Donnell at the White

House, the Deputy Attorney General, Assistant Attorney General Marshall

and Assistänt Attorney Ceneral J. Walter Yeagleys

Get copies back from those underlined

•This domment is pocared in rosy

nation mue Commite

in tron neciest eud is not for dissemi-

your Cometer and the code:

li? ancial proceedings by

nel without the capress are o

Le FBI

ulusce io unauthorized person

tantinini

1H 15325

DocId: 32989717

Page 38

will.

---

## Page 39

10/28/63

Communism and the Negro Movement -

A Current Analysis

Distribution was made to:

The Attorney Ceneral

Deputy Attorney General

Assistant Attorney General Yeagley

Assistant Attorney General ilarshall

Secretary of State Rusk

Hon., P. Kenneth O'Donnell • White House

HOn.

John A. licCone - Director, CIA

Hon. Rabert S. Mciamara, Secretary of

Defense

General Alva R. Iitch, Asst. Chief of

Staff for Army Intelligence

Rear Admiral Rufus I. Taylor, Director

of Naval Intelligence

Brig. Gen. John S.

Samuel, Director of

Special Investigations, Air Force

• General D. Il. Shoup, Commandant of

the liarine Corps

Copies have been recovered from all the

Rbove except, CiDonnell of the nite House,

the Attorney General, Deputy Attorney General,

Assistant attorneys General

Marshall.

..Widen are in do day"

Per Director's Instructions, we are recover-

Ing those to the Deputy Attorney General,

Assistant Attorneys General Yeagley and

Marshall.

....

E:!

This document is provered in reare to your rest and is not for dissemi-

nation quisier ?o

nanommon and th cole men got be disclosed to unculiorised verson

nel without the copicas approcut of the FBl:

iN 55325 DocId 32080717: Fafe 39:

---

## Page 40

DO S

"IFICE OF DIRECT

FEDER, BUREAU OF INVESTI

TION

October

ctober 28, 1563 MENT OF JUSTICE

4:00 pm

•Mx: Belmont says as a matter of

interest, we have recovered the

copies of the document Conmunish

and the Negro lovenent-a Current

Analysis",

fron Assistant Attorney

Generals Marshall and Yeagley,

and in addition, the Attorney Getferas:

has returned his copy..

Ken O'Donnell called Evans and

said he is sending his copy

over to the Bureau..

hwg

an copier have doid.

18-6-53

ПооТ

This document is prepared in response to you request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside mory Crarissec.

vour Committe and the coment may pos be ciswosid io unauthorized persow-

nel without thie express approval of the FBI.

1N 55325

DooId: 32989717

Page 40

---

## Page 41

OPTIONAL ICAM NO, 10

MAT YOGI POIIION

3010-108

GSA GIA. PIG.

NO. '21

UNITED STATES GOVEL MENT

Memorandum

TO

: Mr. W. Co Sullivan

DATE: October 28, 1963

FROM : NT. J. A. Siz00

SUBjECT:

CO MINISE AND TIÉ NEGRO LOVINENT --

A CURRENT ANALYSIS

In accordance with the Director's instructions on the attached

menorandan, ve have on also retrieved no copies of the concacaca

which were sent to the deputy actorzey Caneral dud

Assistani Attorneys Ceneral Marshall and leagiey.

Marshall., siso

handed to Is. Evans the Atsorney Genezzi's copy wich is saud mas

being returned to the bureau on the Attorney Ceneral's Instructions.

"While taliring nith dr. P. Kenneth O'Donnell at the "hito House

on another rubict tudyj ic. O:Donneli advised Mr. Evans that be

is sending his copy of this memorandum backs to the Buzeau.

Thezefoze,

all copies which were disseminated out of the Bureau will have been

returned.

inta

This doomat i pee in demon do lo pomme calis not for deser

wised io unauinoried persoi

nel vithou ile copios corivial of tie isl.

1H 55325

DocId: 32989717 Page 41

---

## Page 42

8:51 A35

February 5; 8904

MEMORANDUAI FOR ME. TOLSON

HiR. BELMIONI

MIF. ROSEN

MIR. SULLIVAN

AIR. DE LOACE

MR. EVANS

Tho attorney Gencral called and stated ho had heard that there has "

been some discussion about a report on Martin luther xing before thalr.oongy

Committee and also some discussion about tha Departmeni d Justice wanied

lo Focall that report and he, the Attorney General, ranted to recall our ca-

rsisation aboit it bocause someone got the impression he, the Attorney Gener

rcquested it be rocalled. I told tue Attornay General that the only discussion i

beiore the mooney Committce was off the record;

Tha Allorncy Ceneral stated he understands that thay are saying he had request

! it ba withdrawn. I stated it was nothing oi the kind; tbat in other words ho, l

the Attorncy General, and I had talked about it saveral loes and he had

¡questionad the wisdom of its distribution and i indicated i would bave the deles

¡withdrawn and I did. The Attorney Coreral stated he did not want to buys the

susa that he had roquestod it. I stated both ai us had leared a leais might

¡out frozi the Departments which bad copies of tao monograph; and if it

happened during a sensitive timo oi negotiations going on with the Negre

Leaders, it would have caused a ruckus insoiar as ling was concorned.

JEE

This document is prepared in response to your request und, is not for dissemi

nation.outs 101 Chlmace.. dos cos as 10000 to effleial proccadings by

vour Committee and the concat non i be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express a proval of the FBI.

1H- 55925

DocId: 32989717 'Page 42

---

## Page 43

February 5, 1004

Memorandu for idessrs. Tolson, Belmont, Roses, Sullivan, Deloach, Evan:

• 2i:a

HH 55325 DocId: 32989717)

'Page 43

---

## Page 44

February 5, 1964

Nemorandum for ifessrs. Toison, Belmoat, Kosen, Sullivan, DoLoaci, Evang

HH 55325

DocId: 32989717 Page 41

---

## Page 45

16227

Febrary 5, 1961

Memorandum for Mesarõ: Folson, Belmont, Kêsen, Cruliren, Datsach, Erase

Very tray jours,

."

John Edgar BêôvêF

Director

.;.

-ie3i

'ce!

aats

WW 55325 [DocId: 32989717 Page 45

---

## Page 46

15. &. C. Sullivan

AX. D. d. BreaDan, JE.

1-2-61

JR.

• SECURLEY MATTER • 0

COMMUNISE PARTY, USA

NEGRO GUESTIC

COZINEST IIZIENCE EN LACIAE HMPERS

INDIAN SECURIRLS

As, E. Do Tollã, Baresu of Intolliscace and Research,

Dapartment of State, adviced Idatena Agant Bastiate that

Thones Doghos, the Diracior 0% cho Percau ez Intelligance and

Resorrch, had a talk wich tho Derootos on Eridor Birls

3-20-01 iüd to cisocios aprozoned chos lastin Huchos King, &&

•vas rides comunise dissinlias and that the Earonu bod nony

rEpOSES Ci InE.

Iic. Volas BoLd chiat 12. Murnes has adired 11

the Duronu con zurnish him with the percinond soporis on ling

so thut ho vli have a bestos underareading of this incividuay

and particularly of the communist influence exerted ovcr lii.

BKO 314232201:

That the Ilalson corpecentative doliver the attached

cupy of our "Ton decret" daement capidaged "Concunion sad

the legro loveuent • A Current Analysig" En Mi. Lughos at

the Danastront of

State.

Nxo. Hugkes wild bo pormistor to

road the dccument; therenttes, the ulaison reprosentative.

will return li to the bureau.

Enclosure

This document is nepared in recoruse in you request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside gone Committer.

lood area to opench proceedings ba

vond Commae dad too cort! mal doi de disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the capress approval of the fbI.

IN 55325

DocId: 32989717 Page 46

---

## Page 47

PoMal PORM, No. 10

• UNITED STATES. GOVE.

Memorandu.

TO

Kr.. W. C. Sullivan.

DATE:

4/3/64

- FROM

D.

J. Brennan, JI.

SUBTECT:

SECURITY MATR RING,

oR..

SECURITY MATTER -

(Bufile: 100-106670)

COMKUNIST PARTY; USA

NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

(Bufile: 100-3-116)

nilicind of

HiT. E. B. Wells, Bureau of Intelligence and

Research,

Department of State, advised Liaison Agent

"Bartlett that Thomas Hughes, the Director of the Bureau of

Intelligence and Research, had a talk with the Director on

Friday night 3/20/04 and tne virector mentionea Enac

silesed to unauthorized

m irresi and is not for dissemin

and that the Bureau had many reports on sing. Mr. "eLls

said that Mr. Hughes has asked if the Bureau

can furnish

him with the pertinent reports on King so that he will

have a better understanding of this individual and particularly

of the communist iniluence exerted over him.

RECOMMENDATION:

That the Liaison representative deliver the

attached copy of "Top Secret" document captioned

"Communism and the Negro Movement - A Current Analysis"

to Mr. Hughes at the Department of State.

Mr. Hughes will

be permitted to read the document; thereafter,

the Liaison

representative will return it to the bureau.

We will not

permit hughes to retain this document as it is the same one

which we gave selective high level and limited dissemination

In October, 1963, and then bad all copies turned back to the

Bureau.

7-64

eunuortranderi

Enclosure

"Eddos think

attached

i "'

document

и 101 9/7/64:

the dares, No

shaned he

dispeayed

5a05 DOCTa:32989717

Page 47

Sad in its tecae

vince ats coas

---

## Page 48

December 1, 1904

BY LIAISON

Honorablo Eill I. Moyers

Spocial Logistant to the President

liashirgion, D. C.

Dens' it, Moyors:

I thought the Presidont rould be

interested in the onclosed curioni siudy

Side: "Concilot dad dee X0gz0 Rested

A Cuszcat inalysio,"

Your advice is icquesto& as to

whother no should disconinato this dceunent

to rooponsible oriicialn in the Executive

Branch

of the Governmont.

The sources Need in the cholosure

have ruininod relinbig inforasizon in the

the Coctone the noon cinestace to aero.

EDO COCHIONI

Upon rei oval

or the chaositiod enciosure, this

Louter bicougs unclacoiiiod.

Sincerely yours,

'son dig

J. Edgar Hoover

FH110M1e

This document is prepared in response to you 'equest and is not for dissen

nation outside your Commitce.

Its ase is limited to official mocecdungs

your Commitire and die content may not be visclosed to unauthorized pers

siss nel without the express approval of the FBI

settin

55325 DocId: 32989717 Page 48

---

## Page 49

40

' UNITED STATES GO"'

WMENT

Memoranium

TO

Mio A. I. Belmont

DATE: November 22, 1964

FROM :%. C. Sullivan...

SUBJECT COLLINISH AND THE NEGRO

HOVELENT--A. CURRENT ANALYSIS

Enclosed is a paper, captioned as above, which depicts the communis

influence in the regro movenent with emphasis on liartin Luther King, Jr.

This paper is an un-to-date revision of the one by the same title prepare.

under the date of Cetober 16, 1953. In updating. it we emphasized thiee

main arcas: (1) the continued dependence of king upon former Communist

Party, USA menhers, current and lormer Party symathizers and his continu

reliance on the long-time communist i

• (2)

(technical surveillance information)

land (3) the recent and current

Party ains and activities relative to the racial novement.

PECOILIRNDATIONS

Upon central, consideration vill be given to appropriate dissemina.

tion. " Then approved, the paper should be returned to the Domestio

Intellisonce Division for printing-and the preparation oi appropriate

letters it disseminated.

white House

Diapha missi

State

CIA

Anniy, Nauy, Are FoRiE

megan tin"

This document is prenare in respnne touci grizest eud.is not for déssemi-

nation. outside note Contri

when to culeil precedings buy

Move Commiles end to colone are me get toclosed to unuuthorized person

nel without tie capis applial of ils IBl

•.?.

:.0..

..:

H₩ 55325 (DocId:32989717 Page 49

---

## Page 50

конль 10х и но. 10

8889471D:1ION

ДЛА СЕН. АГО. НО

• UNITED ST.TES GO. ENMENT

Memorandum.

Hir.

A. I. Belmont

DATE: 11/27/61

..

HiT.

W. C. Sullivan

JECT

LCOICUNISH AND THE BEGRO.

HOVENENI--A CURRENT ANALISIS"

My memorandum to you 11/22/64 subaitted for approval

a paper,

captioned as above thich dcpicts the communict influence

In the kegro movenopt with esphesis on Martin Luther King,

JI.

We have added information on the last four lines, page four,

top paragraph,

and acked that

to show that on 11/24/54 fing conle animate

speeches which king could use in ccopüing the Nobel Peace Prize.

King rould select the best naterial iron these speeches.

I have checked with hir. Hoar and lr. Deloach wno have

advised that they have read this paper.

It is contemplated that dissemination will be nade

under Monday's date (11/30/64), if approved, to the following

individuals:

The Honorable Bill D. loyers, Special Assistant to

the President, The White House

its sir, The Acting

attorney Generalitith copies to the Deputy

Attorney General, ir. Burke Marshall, Assistant.

Attorney General, and it. J. Walter Yeagley,

Assistant Attorney General

The Honorable Dean Rusis,

The Honorable John A, McCone,

The Secretary of State

Director of Celtral

: Intelligence Agency.

The Honorable Carl T.

Rovan, Director of United States

• Information Agency

...

The Honorable Robert S. Ichamara,

The Secretary of

Defense

Major General Edgar C. Dolemay, Assistant Chief of

Staft for Intelligence, Department of the Army

Rear Adniral Mufus L. Taylor; Diroctor of laval

.:.

Intelligonce,

Departreat of the Navy

Colonel Joseph

J. Cappucci, Director af Special.

Investigations, The Inspector Gennial. Department

5of the. Air Force..:

Lieutenent reneral joseph fu carrold, Durector, Detenso: mus

Intelligence Agency

14 55325

DocId:32989717 Page 50

---

## Page 51

Memorandum to Hr, A. A. Belmont

RE:

"COMMUNISH AND THE NEGRO

HOVENENT--A CURRENT ANALYSIS"

RECOMMENDATION:

and sent.

That the attached transmittal letters be approved

do cars to giddie decide cocain

...

stand do j

This document is prepared in responn to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation aside more Commiier.

I's use is limited to official proceedings by

your Conmitre a' 17? coroll may not? disclosed to unauthorized person-

nel without ilie expicos appioval of the EBl.

00049594

HH 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 51

---

## Page 52

Teres

ROM

UBJECT:

OPTIONA! FORM NO. 10

MAY 19A2 ADITION

1010-100

OSA GEN, RIG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT .

Memorandum

Mr. Monr

C. D. DeLoach

MARTIN LUTHER KING

DISSEMINATION OF MONOGRAPA

DATE: December 7, 1964

Bill Moyers, Special Assistant to the President, called me on Friday,

2/4/64, to indicate that he. and the President had read the Director's letter in connection

vith possible dissemination of captioned monograph. He stated it was both his and the

President's opinion that the FBI should disseminate this monograph if it was felt that

lissemination would be in the best interest of internal security.

I told Moyers that under the circumstances he appeared to be telling me

hat we should go ahead and disseminate. He answered in the affirmative.

ACTION:

For record purposes.

ADDENDUM, 12/7/64 - Attached are

appropriate letters, disseminating

this monograph to appropriate government

officials.

-

A. H. Belmont

Enclosures

HH 55325

DocId: 32989717

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation aside more Canmitrec.

anu Commine and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

me are are in mone

Ita use is lited to official proceedings by

nel without the express approval of the FBl

Page 52

---

## Page 53

daconise.

December 7, 1964

BY LIAISON

Honorable Robert S. Lichlanara

The Secretaly of Defenze

Washingion, D. C.

Dear Mi. Micilanara:

I thought you would be intcrosted in the

document are boing furnishce to interestoa officials

of che covernieni.

The sources used in the enclosure have

runnistco 2c1ias10 ¿nication in the basi, ana vecause

üi non sonortave natine, the document han scen

classified "Top Secrot."

Upon ronoval of classiried

enclostre, this letter beconos unclassirled.

sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

.:.:

sera"

''es lili!

240104 120

This document is richared in, response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation. outsile

may Committe.

d's "se is lmated to official proceedings by

your Commer eau? die conton may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the erpicss approval of the DBl.

•acidi i.

legato..

3/ 283

3.08:0.00.000890

ritt

ii:

NH 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 53

---

## Page 54

Krise

-

December :7!, 1964

BY LIAISON

Honorable John A. McCone

Direcior

Central intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

Dear fir. licCone:

I thought you would be Intcrostco in tho

enclosed cursant otudy entitled "Conmuniom and the

Negro Hovoront--A Cumoro Analysii."

Copies of this

documont ars being furnished to interested orricials

oi the Governaent.

The sources used in the enclosure have

furnished reliable intonation in the pasü,

and because

of their vensivive müro, the decent bad boon

classifiod "too Sccrat."

Upon ronoval of clasalfied

enclosure, this lettor becones

unclassifica.

sincerely yours,

3. Edgar Hoover

" Enclostre

...":

'.°....

..'..*."...

....

Meccancer desce 200000005035

This document is prepared in response to yor perest and is not for dissemi-

nation outsire your Commitice.

Its ase in

"i to oile iul procecdinas by

your Commi" e aid the content nicy

not hi ciscused to unuuthorized person

nch without the express aurovel of the rBl

19074A

?..d

IN 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 54

radise:

---

## Page 55

Dac ember 7, 1964

DY LIAICON

ICEr ACadial Busus Lo Paylor

DIredços Ci Naval Intelligeace

Departaont of tie lary

Tho Jonsagon

Washtagion, D. C.

Deas AGazial Taylor:

!

& chought you rould bo interested in tho

onclosed cremont sondy cataciod "Gonmasan and the

10g2o

Hovenental Guzzont Aaaiyad5."

Copies of 1316

or the Coverincht.

The sorrcer uned la tho enciostoo havo

LUnChed г0L2CaLe 210 04204 11 C20 3206,

rud because

Of Chois Sonastiva

cocinent has beca

Upos senoval of Clesoa.10d

enclosure, this lettes bocenes unclassilot.

sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

ENClOSUrE

This document is prepared in response to you, request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside long Committee.

nel without the express amproval of the FBi.

HH 55325

DocId: 32989717 Paye 55

---

## Page 56

December Y?, 1954

BY LEAXBON

Hajor Coneral Ddges &. Dolciar

Assiotone Chaos of Diact Sos Inr0i32g0nce

Dopacorcat of the Asay

The 2026250n

Vachangica, Do C.

Dear General Doleran:

I chcughé you touid ho ancorested in the

MorenchinA Curpont Araseadd."

Copios os this

doconour are boing Luanauked to iniezestod osticials

of the Governmont.

Suiniched orlabio incoration in tuo past, and tecause

tite cocunont has beon

ciacoafied "90p Docroi."

Josu rercui of classifioc

oncinowie, this Ictter boccaes taciaositied.

Sinceroly yours,

J, Edgar Hoover

!

Enclogure

This document is prepared in response to you request and is not for dissemi-

nation artsia your Comitce.

Its use is limited to official pinceedings by

your Commit e and the content may not he asclused to unanhorized verson-

nel without the express coproval of the FBI :

HH 55325 . DocId: 32989717

Page

56

---

## Page 57

Detender. 7, 1964

BY LIAISON

Honorablc Dean lusk

The secretary or State

Washington, D. C.

Dear Kr. Ruck:

I thought you would be interested in the

enoloeed current sundy chiitled "Comunisn and the

Nesto Hovemenir-s Current Analruis.

Copies of this

document are being furnished to interested officials

of the Government.

The sources used in the enclosure have

runisned zaiane inioration in the past, dna because

of their sonsitive nature, the document has been

clansiried "Top Seeret."

upon renoval of classified

enclosure, this letter becomes unclassified.

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Enclosure

This document is mcnared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

I's use is limite to official proceedings 0y

von Commine ail the content may not be disclosed to unanchorized persor.

nel without the express approval of the FBl.

HW 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 57

---

## Page 58

Decembor :71, 1961

•EX LJAZCON

Licutorant Goneral Josoph I. Carcoll

Directos

Deconto intelizacnee Agency

tho Lenüagon

WashingsOug D. C.

Dear General Carroll:

-

I thought you would bo antercsted

23 tho

enclosed curzont steer entatied "Scumunion and tho loszo

HoreheniA Current Asciysls."

Copses od chie

dociment aro Doics Luoniched to rosected 0222C12%5

of tho coverinent.

The sources aged in the enclonuce have

furnichod soirbie asiomation in the Bage,

and because

clasai2i0d "zop Secroc,"

LEON 2020V0L 01 C110s38200

onciosure, this lettes bocones nachased?iod.

Sincerely youro,

• J. Edgar Hoover

Bacterizen /

nel without the capress approval of the FBl..

N# 55325

DocId: 32989717 Page 58

---

## Page 59

...-.

The loting Attoanoy Concural

December to, 1964

"CONTINO NOC MIS ISTRO SOVERE

102pe Baderoste

Chero do onesosod a comy of a current atudy

tenorsy apocand Assistant to

the couscos bood in the choicause, entitlid

nasschod zodicide strouscos in the cooty sad

ütrainiva

300OL D6 9000390

200-445523

SICIOSIO

In the acputy ALicIndy Senoral

(Panterue)

..-

nation ofane join Comance.

H's use is limited to official procecuings 01

your Committe and the content may not be disclosca. to unauthorised person

nel without ile express approval of the FBI.

H₩ 55325 DocId: 32989717 Page 59

---

## Page 60

Decenber 7, 1954

BE IRASCON

10z01a310 C2oL 1. R0Ñ22

DErectoR

Unicod Statos Jaformation Agency

ROGe 402

I77S Dorsaylvania Arome, Northwest

lashingtes, D. C

Dear Iz. Roran:

I thougit you would be interestod zn tho

encioned carzant poudy paticled "Ocanadon and the Negro

Lovenorel Currous intlisis."

Condos oi blis

cocoone to loisg turniched to interested caziciuls

as the Gourmanese.

Tho saurces used in the encircura havo

cinosaalod "top cocrot."

enclosure, ches lcbior becones axclacszid0&.

Sauceroly Joues,

• J. Edgar Hoovei

-..

Encicsura

This document is pierre in scopose to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation pisi??

Tiese is lored to official proceedinas bụ

none Comini'è cal the content may

not ?, disclosci to unauthorized nerson-

nel without the capress appioval of the FBl.

AW 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 60

---

## Page 61

December T. 1964

BY LIAISON

Colonel focegh j. Cappucci

Director of Saccial investigations

To Inspector Gonceal

Departnoni of the dir Force

Brilding Taro E

Foreth and Admas Drive, Southwest

Washington, D, C.

Dear Colonol Cappuced:

I thought you, vould be Intorested in tho

encloned cuszon study casiclod "Communirm and tho Negso

lovinion--A Curcent Anaiysis."

Conies of this

• docinond are being turniched to intercated cificials

of the Gorosmozi.

The sourcos wood in the enclosure have

furnachod colinble incination in the past, and because

of thost senortive racine, üle docilent has been

Classifiod "Dop Jacret."

Uson ronoval of classified

enclocure, this lotter becones unclassified.

sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Inclosure

This document is porpared in response to you request and is not for dissemi-

Jis mer is limitra to official m'orcedings ou

¿no: die cupaé may not be disclosca to unauthorized persoir.

nol without the express aproval of the FBl.

NW 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 61

---

## Page 62

; UPA. SMAL FORM NO, 1o

M01 19888017ION

Eso Gia gigi M0: 87

L'VITED STATES GOV

NMENT

Memorandum

DATE: • 12/17/64

ROM : F. J. Baumgardner:

COMFUNIST INFILTRATION OF

- SOUTIERN CRISTIAN ILADERSHIP CONFERENCE

INTERNAL SECURITY - COMKUNIST

This memorandum recommends that the National Science

Foundation (NST) be furnished information concerning the

communist influence exerted on the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference (SCIC) and its President, Dr. Martin Luther King, Sx.

This appears necessary since the SCIC has been contacted by

the

NSE for the purpose of obtaining applicants for southern schools:

has furnished information that

was advised that the NSF

desired qualified applicants to enter the University of

and other schools in southern states where the ast has its

progran in progress.

was advised that the NSE was

contacting organizations such as the SCIC and othei civil

rights

grouns to magdie tie incredment program for Negro studionis since

they did not want it to appear that the Msr was attempting to

put Negro applicants in southern schools.

was advised that each qualified applicant

Fould receive a $3,000 scholarship fron the NSI, Since this

is a Government project any expenses incurred in this matter

"would not come out of anyone's pocket."

This would adicate

that any expenses incurred by the SCIC in their recruitment

effort would be paid for with Government funds.

The communist intluences exerted on King are well

known. to the Bureau,

has in the past been a member

of the Communist Party.

:.:5

OSSERVATIONS:

It is incredible that an outfit such as the SCIC

should be utilized for the purpose of recruiting Negroes to

take part in the NST program, particularly where funds of the

Enclosure:

CONTINUED - OVER ,

AW 55325

DarLd: 72989717

_ Pane.62

---

## Page 63

Nemorandum to W. C. Sullivan

From

F. J. Baumgardner

RE: COSINIST IITILTRATION OF

SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LLADERSHIP CONFERENCE

U. S, Govern ent are Involved. The Atlanta Office has

reconnended shat

be

advised con erning this matter. This appears inadvisable

since such ction could conceivably cause repercussions which

would only ggravate the racial suation that exists in the

south.

It Is felt that Dr. Leland J. Haworth, Director,

Ast, should be furnished infornation

1 regarding

communist

iniluences exerted on the Scic and king, In this rogarc

re rocently disseminated to the White House and the

heads of the inüclligence community copies of a "Top Secret"

summary entitled "Conmunism and the legro lovenent--A

Current Analysis" which contains information regarding the

This summary doole with ringe connunist

connections and (technical surveillance information) With the

receipt of this summary by di. Haworth, the scie would

antedly be removed on thn mai

program to obtain qualitied

negro students for southern schools.

The information concerning the scic participation

In the NST progran is being sepaately disseminnted to the

Department and interested intelligence agencies.

RECO ENDAT ION:

There is attached for approval a letter to

Dro Icland do MaYorth, Director, ost, transmitting & copy

01

the recently prepared sunmary chiitled "Communisn and

the Negro Movement-A Cuirent Analysis."

This document is premaral in response to your pennest and is not for dissemi-

¿call to official proceedings l!

nch Wilio. ine conus coproral of the FBl.

HY 55325 NocId:32989717 Page 63

---

## Page 64

signlessin

dyг09-90981

"!..

December 19, 1964

EZ LIAISON

Di. Icland i. Faworch

Birector

National Scienco Foundation

1002 Conscizucion Avezue, M. W. :

Machingion, D. C.

DeRs DI. Havorchs

A contidonilal. Source who has Zurnishod voliable

¿ information an the pase has adriace that the rational

Scions toundation contouplacod uillioing cho Ecutiorn

Chozabden Londoschin Consorones do Jocato queli110d

applicants to orior tho

juivorciby of Liesissiond and

other soushera schools vicro the jational bedenco foundation

has a progion in progicod.

Thero is enclosod fos yous indomation a summary

enideled "conunds and to Teazo lovenont--A Curnons

Analyoin" wrich sods do2t3 Bazorenzion zogarding the

Southern Chriotian Loaderchip Conjonsaca and Its Iosidont,

Upon recoval of the cinentated enclocuro, *als

transuittal lottor may be covagzaded to ldsou."

sincorely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Enclosuro

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside pur conito.

Its use is limited in official proceedings by

nour Committre air tie contori may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

HW 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 64

---

## Page 65

December 21, 1964

BY LIAISON

Honorable liubort 1l. Humpbrey

United Statos Senato

Washinston,. D. G.

ly dons Senator:

I thought you would be interestra in ene

enciosed study entitico "Concunion and the ilegro

l'ovecent--1 Current innlysis" as vell. as a memo-

Indon contioned Mariin Incher singe jr.:

•112S

Fersonal Conduct" which is an adjunct of the study.

Copies of those documents lnve been furniched to

interestod oficials of the Covernent.

The sources used in the enclosures have

Furnishod soliable infounation in the past, and

because of this sensitave nature, "he dooments

have boon clessifiod "Top. Speret.""

Upon ronoval

Nor the classifico enclostrde; this transmittal,

letter becones unclaspilicu.

Ancercly yours,;

•J.. Edgar Hoover

„Erig sures (2)

The decemart ened ora to marines and trot fo dissent

nation wi",

its use is lamited to official maceedinas on

40471228:9 1.

'i":

AW 55325 DocId: 32989717 Page. 65

---

## Page 66

OPTIONAL PORN NO. 10

MAY IINA HUITION

OSA GIN, PIG. NO. 28

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Mr. l. Co Sullivan

FROM : Bir. F. J. Baumgardier

SUBJECT®

"COMMUNISIS ANT THE NEGRO

MÖVEMENT--A C RRENT ANALYSIS"

DATE: March 23, 1965

You will recall that in December, 1964, With the

Director's approval and after first checising with the White

House, we disseminated to the lleads of the intelligence

community a paper

captioned as above which depicted the

communist influence in the Negro movement. Emphasis was

given in the paper to the communist influences on Martin Luther

King,Jx., as well as facts relating to his immoral nature.

As you are aware, LeRoy Collins, former Governor of

Florida, is Dizcoton, Community Relations Service (CRS),

Department si Commerce, aid in this posiiion serves as

sumething

of a "mediator" in problems relating to the racial field. He

has been a key individual relative to the situation in Selma,

Alabama. Information of interest to the CRS is regularly boing

disseminated to that agency. _(possible technical surveillance

information)

...

It is believed that, in view of Collins' important

position relative to the racial movement, he should have

benefit of the paper which we have already given to the

White House and the Heads of the intelligence community.

Our rela-

tions with Collins have been friendly; he is a long-time admirer oi

RECOMLIENDATION:

•?..

.... the Director and the, Bureau.

.: Attached for approval is a letter to Collins enclosing

a. copy of the paper captioned as above,

Marriage died suett

Enclosures

:: 9...

coat.. do

• i.

This roost

ration outsi

¿ contrat miuy not be cisclosed to uncathorised person-

anal of the PRI

.?.

---

## Page 67

Barch 21, 195r

BY LIAISON

Honorablo Lohoy Collins

Di200601

Conumnity liclations Sorvice

Departoont of Commerce

Washincion, De Co

Deas fi, Collins:

I thought you would bo interested in the caclosed;

study cotitled "Connuèsn and the lozzo Lovemendo, Curzent

Analysis."

Copies of this documont have

beon turnached to

interosüed officials o2 the Governreni.

The sourcos used in the enclosure have zurnished

reliable iconcation in the past, and because of thoss

scusative nature, the document hus been clasciiied "*op

Secrei."

Unon ronoval of the classifica enclosure, this

ictter

becones urclassified.

"201e Bex

wines Sincerely jours;

"Inclosurg

J. Edgar Hoover

..•"

..

sand done cares alicedridded decided te astigion decided"

tears tracerigidinis

..e..e.

He dare d' pal is mot for Missemi-

al minoredings by

natic:

Mani tain

ucl

wud lo sauthorized verson

tangoin

i..

:.:

H# 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 67

---

## Page 68

"OPTIONAL PORN NO, 1O

5010-106

MAT SPAR EDITION

OSA GEN. REO. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

DATE: 3/31/65

FROM : F. J. Baumgardnes

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JP

SECURITY WATTER - COMMUNIST

On 3/31/65, we received the following request,

through Liaison, from Mr. Fred Robinette, Executive Assistant"

to the Assistant Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service

(Inspections). Robinette advised that the Internal Revenue

Service (IRS) will conduct seminars in the near future on

riqual Employment Opportunities.

The Training Division of IRS

has recommended lartin Luther King, Ji:, among 19 individuals!

as a guest lecturer at these seminars.

Robinette made a

name check request conceming king and the 1s other individuals!

You will recall that in Docombor, 1051, with the

Director's approval and after first checking with the White

House, we disseminated to the heads of the intelligence

community a paper entitled "Conmunisin and the logro hovement-

A Current Analysis' wherein emphasis was given to the

communist influence on King as well as facts relating to

his immoral nature.

It is belioved that we should now furnish to Ins

in response to its request for information concerning King;

ir &copy of the document referred' to above. The Name Check

•Section of the General Investigative Division is separately

handling the request concerning the 18 other individuals.

RECONCENDATION:

"olrgse"."

Attached for approval is a lettor to Mr. Robinette

enclosing a copy of the paper institled "Communism and the

.: Negro: Movement--A Current Analysis.".

sue das din carinaga

Enclosure

in

•indis

ThIS

natin citi

1:1'

55325

me remenand is nat for dissemi-

sunded to official moceddings by

ic misclosen to unauthorized person-

........?.............

?"."

---

## Page 69

BY LINISON

Date:

to:

Iron:

Subjock:

April 2, 1965

lire Fred Robinocte

ExecutirE

Assistant

Assistant Connissione o

Intornal Povonue Sarvice (Inspections)

Dopartnest of the Irdasury

WashinEces, De C.

John Edgar Hoovor, Director

LITZOT LUSTED KIE, ER.

tananani to yor pennest for infomation conceming

1artin Luchor Tint, Jees Wie 28 Leing comessered by your

Sorvice as a rosalble muces lectuser,

Chora is encased

& Copy of & stady

and the torto lover

noni-ni Curront iralysis," Cosies of this documont inve

leon furnished io interostod cificials of to covarmaero.

The sources used in the enciosara lave furriched

relinblo indoration in the pasi, anuracause of thesi sessitive

ratune, the documont has beon cinssifiad "top Saciat."

•Upon smars? of che gusciezed encicause, this lestar becomes.

unclassicied:

Enclosure

3-0°

toddle did didn"t

This dachant is mine to

nation nutsi

your Curli

nel illoii

• no soon coil is not for dissemi-

incil lo uneuthoried person

-d..

Mansi.

i:e.

HH 55325 Do0Id:32989717 Page 69

---

## Page 70

APTIONAl PORN NO, 10

018-180

• MAY BRBS POITION

O SA GEM. XIO. NO, 8Y

UNITED STATES GO

R

MENT

Memorandum

Mr. DeLoach

DATE:

12/19/66

OM

:

C. Sullivan,

JECT: : MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - O

PURPOSE:

To obtain approval to disseminate monograph

entitled,

"Communism and the Negro Movement - A Current

Analysis" to the United States Ambassador to Japan,

U. Alexis Johnson.

BACKGROUND:

On my recent inspection of the Legal Attache office

in Japan, I met and talked with Ambassador Jonnson. Juring

our conversation, it was quite apparent that Ambassador

Johnson was unaware of the communist influence being exerted

on Martin Luther King, Jr., and his group the Southern

Christian Leadership Conference.

In November of 1964, interested officials of the

Government, including the Honorable Dean Rusk, Secretary Of

State, were furnished copies of the monograph

entitled,

"Communism and the Negro Movement.

a communism and the desro novement Current AnalySists

It is felt that Ambassador Johnson, because of his

position,

should be made aware of communist infiltration into

King's group, and the influence being exerted on King.

Ambassador Johnson is a former Deputy Secretary of

. State and has been extremely cooperative and helaful in the:

past.

By His remarks

apparent he is favorably disposed

toward the Bureau and I feel that his discretion in

handling

ma this document could be felted.

RECOMMENDATION:

That approval be granted to disseminate the abover

'named: document..to:Ambassador.comngon..4j.approval is granted;

a copy

will be sent to the Legal Attache, Harold Lu Child, Jr,

with appropriate instructions.

This document

nation outside bogo cranial: jo door

wore Commite did the conent mud not bi dioclosed to unauthorized persón

nel without the capress urarial of the FBI

• in. do.

4909 :

---

## Page 71

Legat, Tolso

Director,

12/23/66

"!

MARTIN LOTHER SING, AM.

SECURITY LATTER - C

When Assistant Directos W. C. Sullivan inspectec

your office recently, he not and talised with Unitod Stries

Ambassador i0 japan,

U. Alexis Johnson. It tas quite coparent

that Anbassador johnsoa

ras unarare of the communict influence

being enorted on Ecrtin lucher ling, di., and his groug, the

Southern Christian Loadceship Conference.

The Legal Attache, Tolyo, is, thorefore, authorized

to deliver in person to Abunsador Johnson the cuclosed

"commoion end the ficaro lovenent - A

sectort entitient toou caliverys the classicication of this

Curront Anniysis.

document chould be poiscod out to

the Ambassador and a request

made that he handle it accordingly.

Enclosure

tie or..

¿.ü....

This document is pam? i"

nation polis

1011(6?0.0

aprillai proceedings by

"cosin io unauliorized vorsoit

igo, tamin

•:.

ditties.

59"3

HH 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 71.

bilita.

-i..

---

## Page 72

.

ONIONAL PORN 0.10

a10-100.

GDA GEN. 16G. NO. 8?

UNITED STATES GO INMENT

Memorandum

Ar. W. Co. Sullivam

DATE: April 10, 1967

FROM . C. Do Brennan

SUBJECT: - CONNUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL

MATTERS - A CURRENT ANALYSIS

PURPOSE:

To obtain authorization for high level dissemination

iof a document captioned as above which shows the degree or

communist influence on liartin Luther King.

Enclosed is a document captioned as above, which

depicts communist influence in the civil rights field,

emphasizing the key role of Martin Luther King, de.

This

document is a current revision of the previvus

analysis

captioned "Communism and the Negro novement - A curreui audiysis,"

prepared and disseminated in Novenber, 1967.

In updating it,

we have emphasized these areas:

(1) continued reliance of King

upon former Communist Party, USA, members, particularly stanley

David Levison; (2). (technical surveillance information)

(3) communist goal of uniting the peace

and civil rights

movenents and King's adherence to this communist long-range

objective.

King's strong criticism and

" "Administration's policy on Vietnam

condemnation of the

in

a speech he made at Ner York

on 4/4/67 shows how much he has been influenced by cormunist

advisors. His speech was a direct parallel of the communist

position on Vietnam.

It is felt that the President would be interested in

la summary on king which shows the degree. of communist intlyence

on him.

The attached paper.constitutes a complete picture and

Istrong Indictment of King in that regard. when

RECOLLENDATIONS:

It is recommended that

(1) The attached letters, with enclosures, to the

Yhite House and the ittorney General be forwarded to Assistant

::?.tor.to: the:Director.Deloach for.transmittal. toMrs..Hildred.stegal.

the White House. and the attorney General

2221

CONTINUED - OVER

HH 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 72

---

## Page 73

Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan

Re.:

COMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL

MATTERS - A CURRENT ANALYSIS

(2) The attached letters, with enclosures, to

the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, and the

Director of the Secret

Service be forwarded to the Liaison

Section for transmittal.

agare in a dosso dons andif

This document is prenared in response to unr request and is not for dissemi.

nation, outside vong Commitee.

Ita aso is limited in official proceedungs by

vour Commit e cui die content

net without the expas arrosal of de FBi.

atte discosca to unauthorized person

... döo.ät.

so."... er.

"'ss:

Parere Slegate lino crocco carai Mind di So de Con dove

3K%::/ 1008486a

HH 55325

DooId:32989717 Page

73

---

## Page 74

The Attorney General

April 10, 1997

Director, FBI

!CONHUNEST ENTLUENOS IN RACIAL

BATTERS - A CUNABIT AMALESZS

I thought you would be intorested in the enclosed.

curront study entitled "Commist Influence in Rachal

Maticis - A Current Analysis.

the sourcos load in the enclocuse have furniched

reliable information in jue past rod bocuuse ot

theix

sonsitive sature, this doomont bas boos classifiod

"on sacrot." Upon ronoval od the siacciláod enclosure,

this loiter becones uncluscitied.

Enclosure

.:

This document is menared in rearm te morest and is not for dissemi-

nation outsie nor d

you Commit cit

mused io unanihorised person

....

.:

hold to for.

14 55325

DocId: 32989717 Page 74

---

## Page 75

5Z655 HH

o.cirio..

sasses sater

• ..:

let oa do plati so 443-3917 722017142 22211

i!".'

wwd @cco.@o.42421g1.2s6. 10004. 22208221

......

new are Ginian jurin

...1

•..

....

let do taurinauda pándstional done does i podi did, pligrideo drier de doctor

"SILOS RIOTOGUES

sittinin

STORREN

---

## Page 76

Apx31 10, 1967

.BX LIAISON

risiss.

Honorablo Denn Eusk

The 8ocz06a27 03 56233

Kashington, D.'C.

Bear Mi. Rusk:

I choinbt you vold in anterosiod in the enciose

curioni study erciclos "Commist Ifiuasco in Raciul

Mactces - A Cucront Accl7sid,"

The sourcos nood ¿n she oscloors hove furnishea

rotinvie infomation in ile past ena iocruso vi indis

sonoátire auture, this docunent hos boor cingciiied

"Top Socrot." Upon renoval of the cluscitied esclosure,

this

letier beconcs unolassitied.

distoni "5l.

non se sinceraly youra,

J. Edgar Hoover

••;•

insorginale".

.i: Enclosure

romagnomes tridi 4.36

Pand damasio'

This document is pomore in gennare in unge correi cua is noi for dissemi-

ration autric"

in unauthorized person-

your Conan

nel pilai

pedone Glie totori:"

s220858620251

'""

....

idrate

NH 55325 DocId: 32989717 Page 76

---

## Page 77

April 10, 1967

BY LIAISON

kir's. Wildrod Stegall

The Pite House

Washington, D. C.

Dear Ars. Stogall:

I thought the prosident would be interosted

in the enclosed chront study enticiod "Commnist influence

3n Racial Votious • A Curront Analysis." Copios o1 this

Anaument

are aido boing suchiched to the Nonorable Fear

the Decrcunry vi Dunco; sue Honorabie Rolert 8.

she Secretory of Regene: the Manorahio cures &.

Mcle" Director, la S. Doores Servico; and the Atturney

General.

The souices used in the enclosure have furnished

reliable intonation in the past nod because of choir

sessitive nature, this docuont hrs beon cinssiied

"Top secrei." Upon ronoval of, the ciussitiod enciosure,

Triad in this lenter bacones unclassifiod.

3. Edgar Hoover

apostrid.

D00103U20120

nation outsido vari

your comani:

.=."

..":

Pure cerea:

"?.

disclosud to uninthorized person.

"se.

HH 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 77

---

## Page 78

April 10, 1967

BX LILISCH

Eonorable Fobert S. Maremora

The Fcoretary o1 Derenne

Hashington, D. C.

Scar lie, liclamara:

I thoucht you would bo interested in the enclose:

cartont study Auticled "Cosmict Influcace in Racial

lactors • A Curront Inalysla."

The sources usod in the cholocire bare funialca

relichle inforaation sa gno paso ano uocuso. os tboir

sensatave anturo, mes douunoi has book circcisied

1150}

fecrat."

Unon scuoral oi the cinssatied enclosure,

this lettos beconer unciassaried.

Sinceroly joursy

J. Edgar Hoover

..:

ritta.

133 г3.

This anemanant is

alli le

nel ciline

47046544

..i?

78

---

## Page 79

2N5:

BJECT:

•.

ÚNITED STATES COMEDYMENT

Memorana

inig

: Ax. Me Co Sullivan,

DATE: August 24:1967

C. D. Brennan

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY WITTER - CONIUNIST

* Material in parenthesis has bees

added in place of excised portions.

PURPOSE:

To obinin approval to disseminato to(a representatire

atriendly Foreiga Intelligence servica,!

Washingion, i.

C., a copy oi the monograph entitia,

"Communist Influoneo in Racial Hatters-' Curzont inalysis."

BACKGROUND:

("This indiviqua).

has advasca that inu riechan Protest Unvament 5=-m

is considoring invitang prominent

on Vietnan. Martin Luthci King, Ji., President o1

the

southern Christion Leadership Conierence,

has

ocen

mentioned by. this croup as one they night invite for this

purpose.

• has requested that he be urnishco acy.

infornation of i poitical or subversive nature concernine

King. so that the head of his government might be briefed). .

OBSERVATION

since there is à good possibility king might ba

anviter toi

in the near futare, it is doened

desirable to advise apprcpriate government officials of

his hcavy alliance to Connunist advisors and (technical

surveillance information)

100 .

•0400.

•RECOMMENDATION

S1io to

The attached document be disscninated.by. routing

#through Liaison Section.

• Enclosure

This documen is macroe? du econne te ne coust md is not for dissemi-

•nel suitrone ini

NN 55325 DocId: 32989717

Pare 19

---

## Page 80

DITIONAL ADAM NO. 10

'MAT DOGS POITION

8818-100

SIA CEM.

110, но. 38

UNITED STATES GO

RNMENT

Memorandum

W. C. Sullivas

DATE: 8/30/67

FROM

D. J. Brennan;

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER -

This is to recommend that we furnish to General

Commandant on the Marine Corps, the

"Communist Influence in Racial

On 8/29/67, through his Aide-de-Camp, Lieutenant

Colonel Raymond C. Damm, General Greene asked

Liaison whether

we have available-a summary.of information on Martin Luther

King which could.

be made available to the Commandant: -General

Greene has been interested in following news accounts of

King's activitles in the civii rignts movemeni vui recentiy

has become quite concerned as to whether there

•*

subverstre teens witch have a-ven to ink the

civil

1 rights

movementwith the anti-Vietnam War movement.

OBSERVATIONS:

General Greene has always been very triendly and

cooperative with the Bureau.

As Commandant of the Marine Corps,

ha is also a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. It is felt

it would definitely be to the benefit of General Greene and

to the Bureau to furnish him the enclosed monograph which has"

previously been disseminated on a high level to the White House,

the Attorney General, the Secretary of Defense, Secretary of:

State, and the Secret Service.

RECOMMENDATION:

General Greene.

100-106670

Enc.

That attached monograph be furnished "by Liaison to

This domment jo marie

•ll see cagent mail is not for dissemi-

nation api.;".

Mony Cui

nel pritinat lin

NH 55325 DocId: 32989717 Page 80

---

## Page 81

OPTIONAL CORM NO 10

8010-108

MAY 1P&8 10IlIO4

:. 8A 61N. 11C. MO, 88

UNITED STATES GOV

•INIEYT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. W. C. Sullivan

FROM : G. C. Moore

SURJECT:

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - C

DATE:

..*

2/29/68

Mr. Tolson has suggested, and the Director agreed,

that the monograph on Martin Luther King,. JI., be brought

•up to date.

... This is an excellent suggestion and we have already

started the necessary gesearch. Bringing this monograph up to

"date and disseminating it at high level prior to King's "Wash-

sington Spring Project" should serve again to remind top-level

officials in Government of (technical surveillance information)

As you know, King's "Washington Spring Project" was

originally scheduled for early April, 1968. However, our

Washington Field Office has developed information that King's

group is experiencing difficulty in recruiting individuals

to participate in the demonstration and the date for the project

ww; has now tentatively been set for April 27, 1968.....

Because of the importance of doing a thorough job on

this, we will conduct an exhaustive file review to bring togethe!

the most complete and up-to-date information and to present it•

in a hard-hitting manner.. Io make the brief timely, we will

have it completed

and ready for dissemination by March 14: 1968:

RECOMMENDATION:

0900199908

For information.

'::

viar

This document is prared in reshoe to you requent and is not for dissemi-

WW 55325 DocId: 3294/107 Gutsie

merellins is:

…f.e'

---

## Page 82

от.юна чочь на, 10

JSA GEM. UNG. NO 88

UNITEL STATES GOV.

Memorandum

901A-888

MENT

Mr. Sullivan

ROM : G. C. Moore

UBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - C

DATE: 3/11/68

Mr. Tolson has suggested and the Director has agreed

that a previous monograph dealing with Martin Luther King, JI.,

be updated at this time.

Enclosed is a document captioned "Martin Luther

King, JI., - A Current Analysis," which depicts communist

influence on Martin Luther King; details regarding his proposed

- "Washington Spring Project" in which hë lo calling for massive

civil disobedience in the Nation's Capital beginning 4/22/68;

his contacts with such militant black nationalists as

and

in efforts to secure support for

his "Washington Spring Project," and details regarding his

¡efforts to organize this project. This document updates the

previous analysis which dealt primarily with King captioned

"Communist Influence in Racial Matters -_Current Analysis,":

dated 4/10/67.

RECOMMENDATION:

That a copy of the enclosed document be furnished

Mrs. Stegall at the White-House and the Attorney General.

*Attached are proposed letters to Mrs. Stegall and the Attorney

General, copies for the Deputy Attorney General and Assistant

Attorneys General of the Internal Security, Civil Rights,

and Criminal Divisions.

Copies of this document are being

Being held until monograph approved

This document is prepared in caponce to my reuest cad is not for dissemi-

epid proceedings bi

nel without the ciness approcal of the fil .

H589417 Page 82

---

## Page 83

Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan

RE: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

furnished by routing slip to MI. William Welsh, Administrative

Assistant to the Vice President; Department of Defense;

Department of Labor; Department of Agriculture; Inter-Division

Information Unit; Secret Service; Army; Navy; Air Force,

and General Services Administration.

-..

in is....

......

...

.....:..

s...

it.e....

==.

-

2-

HH 55325

DocId: 32989717

Page 83

---

## Page 84

The Attorney General

• Hansh.1tn 1968

Director, FBI

MARTIN iTS KING, JR.

SECURITY LITER - COICUNIST

I thought you would ba interested in the enclosed

current study entitled "Hartin luther King, Jri, - A Cursent

Anolysis," perticularly in viey of his announced plans for

massive civil disdbedience in the Ration's Capital in Loril,

1903€

A copy of the enclored cormnication has been roẻe

availeble to Yes. lIlured Stegall at the White liouse and other

interanted Governent agencies:

inclosure

I - The Deputy Attorney General (inclosure)

1 - Mr. J. Holter leagley (inclosure) •

Assistant Actorney Goneral ,

- Ir. Fred # Vinson, Ji. (inclosure)

Assistant Attorney

Gencral

- MI.

Stephen J. Pollak (Enclosure)

Assistant. Attorney General

ice-

This document is prepared in response to lan armurt and is not for dissemi-

nation outside song fragites

nial proceedings oy

oar Commore col the dice.

.....

ise to lulthorized person

HH 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 84

---

## Page 85

SECRET

March 14, 1968

• BY LIAISON

Mrs. Mildred Stegall

The White House

Washington, D. C.

Dear Mrs. Stegalls

: I thought the Presidont would be interested in the

enclosed current study entitled "Martin Luther King, Jo, -

A Current Analysis," particularly in vier of Klng's announced

plans for massive divil disobodience ta

Motion's Capital

this coming April..

Coples of this docutient are being furnished the.

Attorney General and other interested Governnent agencies.

The sources

utilized in the enclosure have furnished

reliable information in the past and because of their sensitive

nature this cocument has been classified "Secret."

removal of the classified enclosure, this letter becomes

unclassified.

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover.

Enclosure

This document is prepared in reapurs to you recuest and is not for dissemi-

nation outside you Cannie.

I's renis lo! to official proceedings by

your Connirrea

•eir paris l: coulosed to unauthorized person

nel without the epicos augive uj tie Fel.

1W 55325 DocId: 32989717 Page 85

---

## Page 86

OPIIONAL FORM NO 10

4215 1862 801710N

1387-198

OSA GEN, RIG. NO. 39

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

: Mr. .Wo Co Sullivan

DATE: March 19, 19.68

FROM : G. C. Moore

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR..

SECURITY MAITER - COMMUNIST

Through liaison it has been determined that the

recent monograph entitled "Martin Luther king, JI.,'A

Current Analysis," dated liarch 12, 1968, has been receiver

very favorably by the intelligence community. Because of

this, liaison has received requests from various agencies

íur copies of this monograph. We feel that the monograph

would be helpful to other Goverment agencies with

intelligence responsibilities.

RECOMMENDATION:

It is recommended that copies of the monograph

on Martin luther king, Jr., he furnished the following

agencies by liaison: Central Intelligence Agençy;

Secretary of State Dean Rusk'; Joint Chiefs of Staffs"

Major General Carl C. Turner, Provost Marshal, U. S. Army;

General Leonard E. Chapman, Conmandant, .

So Marine. Corps

• Домі:

This document: i prenared i resha se 10 0. recues and l not. for dissemi..

nation mriside vow Commiter.

Do ces i lmard to official proceedings by

your Commune and lie content may unt le disclosed to unuuthorized person-

---

## Page 87

UNEXCISED

---

## Page 88

it odor;

1 :

UNTIONAL TORN

.0..10

010-100

MEO 1982 EDITIN

GSA GEN. BIG. NO. 29

UNITED STATES GO INMENT. *

Memorandum

Mr. H. C. Sullivan

DATE: April 10, 1967

FROM : C. Do Brennan .

SUBJECT: COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL

MATTERS - A CURRENT ANALYSIS

PURPOSE:

To obtain authorization for high level dissemination

of a document captioned as above which shows the degree of

connunist influence on lartin luther king.

Enclosed is a document captioned as above, which

depicts communist influence in the civil rights field,

emphasizing the key role of hartin Luther king, is.

This

document is a current revision of the previous

analysis

captioned "Conmunisn and the Negro novement - i Curreni sualysis,"

prepared and disseminated in November; 1961.

In updating it;

we have empliasized these areas: (1) continued reliance of King

upon former Communist Party, USa, members, particularly stanloy

David Levison; (2) Eacts relating to king's moral degeneracy?

and_(3) conmunist goal of uniting the peace and civil righis

movements and King's adherence to this communist long-range

objective.

King's

strong criticism and condemnation of the

"Aaministration's policy on Vietnam in a speech he made at Net

on 4/4/67 shows how much he has been influenced by communist

has on in

York

advisors. His speech was a direct parallel of the communist

position on Vietnam.

It is felt that the President would be interested in

'a summary on king which shows the degree. of communist intluence

ion. n1me

The attached paper constitutes a complete picture and

strong indictment of King in that regard."

RECOLMENDATIONS:

It is recommended that

(1). The attached letters, with enclosures, to the.

White House and the ittorney General be forwarded to Assistant

to: the:Director Deloach for transmittal.to.urs. Mildred. Stegall

the White House. and the Attorney General

1-206

CONTINUED - OVER

M1:55305.DocT:32989717 Page 8B

---

## Page 89

:

1 6RН. 81й.010.,28

UNITED SINTES COSER MMENT

Memorandu

dr. le Co Sullivan,

D. Brennan

DATE: AuguSt 24:1967

ЗJECT:

KARTIN LUTILER KING, JP..

SECURITY MATTER - COMMUNIST

PURPOSE:

* Material in parenthesis has been

added in place of excised portions.

amendly Toreigh Intelligénce Servico),

To obinin approval to disseminate to(a representative os

BACKGROUND:

(This individua)

has adivised

that the Vietnam Protest Movement

is considering inviting promineni incricans io iniure

a on Vietnan.

Martin Luther King,

J., President

the

Southern Christion Leadership Conference,

has been

mentzoned by, this group as one they might invite for this

pUIDOSO.

"f has requested that he be furnished

information of a nolitical of subversive nature concernins

22Y.

King.(cso that the head of his Government might be briefed).

OBSERVATIOŸ:

Con dicon Barir balis ess

since there is à good possibility king might be

invited to:

> in the near futare, it is deened

desirable io advise appropriate governnent officials.of

his hcavy

alliance to Communist advisors and his immoral

conduct

:RECOLENDATION

..

slip to

The attached doeument be disseminated by routing

scarsi mas

through Liaison Section.

Enclosurc

This document is macrayel in recuper to le coquest and is not for dissemi-

nation onni?:

nel ruithout co capied incurat

oj recede

HH 55325

DocId: 32989717 Page 89

---

## Page 90

OPTIONAL PORM MO 1O

9018-100

MAY 1962 ADITION

GIA CEM.

RIG. NO. 21

UNITED STATES GOV

YME.VT

Memorandum

ro : Mr. W. C. Sullivan

FROM : G. C. Moore.

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - C

DATE: 2/29/68

Mr. Tolson has suggested, and the Director agreed,

that the monograph on Martin Luther King, JI., be brought

•up to date.

.. This is an excellent suggestion and we have already

started the necessary research. Bringing this monograph up to

date and disseminating it at high level prior to King's "Wash-

ington Spring Project" should serve again in remind top-level

officials in Government of the wholly disreputable character

of King: 7

As you know, King's "Washington Spring Project" was

originally scheduled for early April, 1968. However, our

Washington Field Office has developed information that King's

group is experiencing difficulty in recruiting individuals

to participate in the demonstration and the date for the project

"has now tentatively been set for April 27, 1968. "

Because of the importance of doing a thorough job on."

this, we will conduct an exhaustive file review to bring tögethe

the most complete and up-to-date information and to present it

in a hard-hitting manner.

. To make the brief timely, we will

have it completed and ready for dissemination by March 14, 1968

RECOMMENDATION:

For information.

Pists:

This document is prepared in response to unny recurat an is not for dissemi-

nation outside nor Commitor

-necedians bu

your Committee din lie

DocId: 32989717

---

## Page 91

19118 i PORA NO, 10

5010-108

#+18428019901

12G. N0. 88

" 'UNITED STATES GO'

Memorandum

TO

Mr. A. H. Belmont

DATE: November 22, 1964

FROM :1l. C. Sullivan

SUBJECT:COLI.IUNISLI AND THE NEGRO

HOVENIENT--A CURRENT ANALYSIS

Enclosed is a paper, captioned as above, which depicts the communist

influence in the Negro novenent with emphasis on liartin Luther King, Jr.

This paper is an up-to-date revision of the one by the same title preparea

under the date of October 16, 1953. In updating. it we emplasized three

main areas: (1) the continued dependence of king upon former Communist

Party, USA members, curient and former Farty sympathizers and his continuer

reliance on the long-time communist i

• (2) [facis

relating to the moral degeneracy, of ling land (3) the recent and current

Party ains and activities relative to the racial-movement.

PECO!RIENDATION:

tion, *upon approval, consideration will be given to appropriate dissemina

..When approved, the paper should be returned to the Domestic

Intelligence Division for printing and the preparation of appropriate

letters it disseminated.

Enclosure

Mattas

White House

State

CIA

Anny, Mauy, AIR FORiE

This document is prepared in restomar lo le agree codes not for dissemi-

nation outside nom omni

' mirin proceedings by

nor Conmiles mad tie contino man to be cisclosed to unuuthorized person

ndl without the copicss approval of the l'Bl.

.

sd.00...

HH 55325

DocId: 32989717 Page 91

---

## Page 92

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

OPTIONAL PORN NO, 10.

MAT IRDS POHION

GRA GIN.

KIG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

V. C. Sullivan

DATE: March 23, 1965

:. Mr. F. J. Baumgardner

"COMMUNISH AND THE NEGRO

MOVEMENT--A CURRENT ANALYSIS"

You will recall that in December, 1964,

with the

Director's approval and after first checising with the White

HOuSE,

we disseminated to the leads of the intelligence

community a paper' captioned as above which depicted the

communist influence in the Negro movement. Emphasis was

given in the paper to the communist influences on Martin Luther

King,dro, as well as facts relating to his immoral nature.

As you are aware, LeRoy Collins, former Governor of

Florida, is Director, Conmunity Relations

Service (CRS),

Department oi Commice, and in this posiiion serves as

sumething

of a "mediator" in problems relating to the racial field.

He

has been a key individual relative to the situation in Selma,

Alabana. Information of interest. to

disseninated to that agency. [ve justthe CRS is regularly being

received reliable

mation concerning a conversation between Martin Luther King, Jr.

and his wife, Coretta,

during which Coretta made reference to

the

Selma situation and said that Collins was blinded by

prejudice. l'e have disseminated the information concerning

the King conversation to CRS.]

we done ther.

-....

It is believed that, in view of Collins' important

position relative to the racial movement, he should have

benefit of the paper which we have already given to the

White House and the Heads of the intelligence community.

Our rela-'

tions with Collins have been friendly; he is a long-time admirer of

RECOMMENDATION:

•?.?

the Director and the, Bureau..

.: Attached for approval is a letter to Collins enclosing

a copy of the paper captioned as aboye:

rs!

Enclosures

MH 55325

‚i?.

This docus oranger

nation puks pr to

1o andra dro oneta proceedings by.

¿our Committe and the contrat may not be cisclosed to annuthoricca person-

Docial: 320a044/page 92 Pil of

i the Fil

---

## Page 93

Hemorandum to W. C. Sullivan

From F. J. Baumgardner

RE: CORIUNIST INTILTRATION OF

SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN IEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

-

U, S. Goverment are Involved. The Atlanta Office has

recommended that

be

advised concerning this matter. This appears inadvisable

since such action could conceivably cause repercussions which

would only aggravate the racial suation that exists in the

south.

It is felt that Di. Leland J. Haworth, Director,

Nst, should be furnished infornation regarding communist

influences exerted on the SCIC and King. In this rogard

we recently disseminated to the White House and the

heads of the intelligence community copies of a "Top Secret"

summary entitled "Conmunism and the legro lovement--A

Current

Analysis" which contains information regarding the

SCIC and King.

This summary deals with King's communist

connections and his personal immoial activities. "ith the

receipt of this summary by Dr. Haworth, the SCIC would

undoubtedly be removed from thn NST

nrogram to obtain qualified

Regro students for southern schools.

The information concerning the SCIC participation

in the NSF program is being sepazately disseminated to the

Department and interested intelligence agencies.

RECOMHONDAT ION:

There is attached for approval a letter to

the legro Movement-A Current Analysis."

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outer how Come sec

your Cormitre and

I's 030 is lay to official procectangs by

ne concent may not be disclosea to unuthoried persoi

nel without the exwess approval of the FBI.

HH 55325

DocId: 32989717 Page 93

---

## Page 94

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVÊSTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

Addressee: -

House Select Committee

OL.TR

EJ LHM •Memo

→ Report

dated - 9/1/75

Caption of Document:J. 5. House Select Committee on In-

telligence Activities re All Information Made '

Available by the FBI to the Senate Select

Committee

FBI

150

Return this receipt to

62-11646458

17H|55325

DocId: 32989717

Page 94

---

## Page 95

Memoranduni

TO

FROM

Mr. Sullivam

DATE: June 42, 1961

R. 0. L'Allier

SUBJECT:

LIAISON WITH INIIGRITION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE, (IN3)

Liaison with INS has been handled for the past several

who also handles liaison with the Central

The purpose of this nemorandum is

INS in order to devote full tine to CIA.

INFORMATION. RELATING TO INS

CIA continues to be one of the most '

important liaison assignnents as well as one of the most time

consuhing. Proper handling of this assignment now requires the

¿ull time and atention of a Liaison Supervisor and it is believed

that Si Papich snould be rolloca of his ins assignment in order

to devote his entire attention to cla.

.

INFORMATION RELATING TO AGENT. TO RE

ASSIGNED TO HANDLE LIAISON WITH INS.

ACTION:

If you approve, liaison responsibility for INS will be

transferred fron Sa Papich to

NAME

T'his document is prepared in response to your request und is not for dissensi

Ration outside your Committee.

Its use i: limited to official minceedings by

•your Committee und the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person.

nel without the express approval of the FBl.

orbit toes.

oad NAME

40.1

rif

55325 DocId:32989717 Page 95

62-1/611-58

---

## Page 96

(.)

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) -

Act 6 (11 (B)

Act 6 (1) (B)

_ You previously have been informed regarding CIA's

Division which has had offices in various U. S. cities and which is openly

identified as being connected with CIA. This division has been responsible

• for the overt collection of positive intelligence gained through interviews of

aliers, travelers, businessmen. etc. The division has not been engaged

in any operational activity such as the development of double agents. For

your information, CIA has reorganized this division and it is now called

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

An examination of CIA s activities in the area of overt collection

o1 positive intelligence has indicated that the Bureau can strengthen its

position by having our field offices establish direct contact with the local

offices of the

This particularly applies to those

situations where the Bureau and CIA both have an interest in Soviet-bloc

and lugoslav nationals, excluding those who are connected with embassies

or the United Nations. We recognize that CIA has a responsibility for.

collection of positive intelligence (i. e. information regarding Soviet-bloc

capability in a particular research field) which might be acquired from

such visitors hut we rannot condone any CIA actirity which might

interfere with Bureau operations. - You therefore are authorized to

establish liaison with local offices of the

(1) (B)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

9-28-65

• SAC LETTER NO. 65-54

-5.

nation outside your Committee.

pei without the express approval of the FBI.

WH. 55325

DooId:32989717

Page 96

---

## Page 97

In each case when you initiate any inquiry or investigation of a visiting

Soviet-bloc national, you should obtain from the localL

the nature and extent of CIA interest and all pertinent information Act

which CIA has gained or may acquire in the future relating to our internal

security responsibilities. If you feel that CIA activity conflicts with

Bureau objectives, you should so advise the Seat of Government, clearly

setting forth your reasons. In this connection; there may be instances

Where continuing CIA pursuit of positive intelligence would conflict with

the Bureau s discharge of its internal security functions.

very truly yours,

John Edgar Hoover

Director

K Act 6 (1) (B)

6 (1) (B)

;

-1.:

9-28-65

SAC LETTER NO.

65-54

NH 55325 ĐocId:32989717

Page 97

---

## Page 98

Prissipari miei

WHITED STATES EOVERNMENT

FENORANDUM

TO

FROM

, SUETECT:

DIrector,. FBI

SACs Philadelphia

CERTRAL INTELIIGENCE AGENCY -

DATE:

10/25/Eb

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

INFORMATION CONCERNING

Re Section (E)s SAC Letter 65-54

9/28/65.

NAME.

"Dete 6 (1)(B)

tral Intalligence Agency (CIA)

WalSk Act 6 (1) B

contacted on 10/14/65 as directed in referenced SAC Istter:

advised he had just resurned from conferences at his

Agency Headquarters in Washington, where he had keen advised

= Fursau was directing 1ta field afficos to establish

1121sca

3ich tre local

OffICES

of the

JEK Act 6 (1) (B

NAME

offered his complete coopsration with this office In mat-

•exe

if mucual Interest.

Arrangements were perfected whersin Agents of this

céfice making inquiries or investigationa of à Soviet-Bros Na-.

cast can

contast

NAME

1end

Lis will pläce then in contact

nine the

reprisertative hendling theA

6 (1)(B

sise: de that Information of Interest to us

on be secured.

av information soning to the attention of tre

(1) (B

relating to our Internal recurity regressiblilties WITTo (1)B

le immediately reported to this cifice.

Trenuested, 1e view co his Agerco's regu-:

jinstors, that ciA not be identified as the source in the event

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to nificial proceedings bi

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized gerat

niel without the express approval of the fBi.

-92909717

_Pane 9B

---

## Page 99

sisterin

incoration received fron his cffice should be incluêca

communication going to anyone outside the Bureau.

NAME

res assurea thet CIA's Identity in this regard nould de futi

¿aotected.

INFORMATION RELATING

'T.s.

TERRITORY COVERED BY THE

OFFICE CIA

INCLUDING

THE

K Act 6 (1) (B)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

NAHES OF: CIA PERSONNEL:.:

.o.

PRQUEST OF THE BUREAU:

In the course of future contacts with CIA li these

• ca3ze; It 1s enticipated that CIa representatives mey st times

request information relating to subjects: backgrourd, habits,

and characteristics, as well as any availabie pbotographs.

The Bureau is requested to aûvise 1f lt will be per-

rissible to orally furnish such backgroud information to the

cIn, representative and to furrish copies of shourgraphs, 1i

they are available.

• The Bureau Is also regrested to advise 11

the establis::

Fant of 112150n

on the field office level with cIA's

envisages the furnishing 0 I020z03 me leba-

head memos to this service at the zield office

Level were ency

aave a legitimate Interest in the subjecu.

JEK Act

6 (1) (B)

1W 55325 DocId: 32989717 Page 99

---

## Page 100

BAC, Palladelphia

10/29/65

Disgatos, 53x.

CENTRAL IATELLICHICE AG

MCS (CIA)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

INFORSNTION COUCINNING

Referenco is nado to your lotter dated 10/25/65.

Tho purosu has been folloving a policy of not dissoninating

Bureau information to the l

Jat a iccai level.

SE13 DOLIST B111 COnTiGUO URLESS YOU LE RaVISEd to the contrary.

In the event that the jocel lA office desires information

concerainy say subject, sucis requests siould bo directed by ciA to

Eureza Leadguartarz.

MH 55325 DocId: 32989717 Paye 100

---

## Page 101

OSA GAN, AIG. NO, JI

UNITED STATES GUVI

INMENT

Memorand

n

TO

: Mir. C. D. Deloach

DATE: 6/25/70

FROM : W. C. Sullivan

SUBJECT: LIAISON WITH CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)

MASHINGION FIELD OFFICE

The Director has inquired regarding the nature of

any liaison existing between the Washington Field Office (WFO)

and CIA. Limited liaison does exist, being addressed to

specific operational cases and name checks.

WFO, of necessity, is in contact with CIA concernine

specific cases in the espionage field.

for example,

--

• SPECIFIC EXAMPLE GIVEN

/JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

In addition, CIA has a

office

in the District which makes name checks with WFO and

secures

background information concerning foreign diplomatic personnel.

No liaison is conducted with respect to policy matters and the

objective of all contacts is the handling of immediate opera-

tional matters.

ACTION:

For the Director's information.

'..*

•

.."

inge in, do re, dio

::.

+113909069.6-098

..

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for aissemi

nation. outside your Committee.

Its use

¿ limited to offirin! " oceedings by

your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express

approval of the FBI.

HH 55325

DocId: 32989717 Page 101

---

## Page 102

"OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 19US ADITION

OSA GIN, BIG. NO, 28

UNITED STATES GOV

Memorandum

8010-300

'MENT

TO

: Mr. C. D. DeLoach

DATE:.

6/26/70

FROM : 1. C. Sullivan

SUBJECT:

LIAISON WITH CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

WASHINGTON FIULD OFFICE

•By attached memorandum, 6/25/70, discussed the

operational contacts between the lashington Field Office

(WFO) and CIA's local E

Joffice. Mr. Tolson

noted "I thought all such contacts were to be handled by

letter" and the Director said "I most, certainly intended

the same." We are instructing WFO accordingly.

It is possible that other field offices have working-

If

¡tho Dincetor desires, similar instructions will be issued to

Ithen.

• ACTION:

(1) Attached for approval is a letter to WFO

instructing thai all future contacts with CIA are to be

handled by letter.

(2) If the Director desires, an SAC Letter will be

prepared

containing similar instructions, applicable to all

offices.

No

I'his docement is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissor

ration outside your Committee.

Its use i: limited to official pioceedings oy

your committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

rel without the express approval of the Bl.

55325

DocId: 32989717 Page 102

---

## Page 103

CERE

Karch ?, 1970

ix, do dgar hoover.

Director

Federn Burenu of Investiration

inshington, D. G.

Fear ir. Hoover:

•I ask th-t you approve my request to retire from burenu servicr

end, if it is convenient, to hive this retirement become effective kil

For severnl weeks I have beon giving this metter serious t! unit

since I began questioning my carability to oring abut ^ better coordin-

-bed eifort direcied against foreign intelligence targets, particirly

Shose of the Comnist-Bloc. I have nirays aimed for perfection, but I

do not find that the desired results are being achieved.

for lmost. 1.8

Fears I have handled an assignent during a period of turbulent. hectic,

and controversial developmonts in the area of Intorn-l Security -ü. S.

invelligeuce.

It was nest challengings very rearing, out loo pinion-

INTo

Boonuse of this ceep involverent I not realize that I have braly

neglected my resprusibilities is a father ind husband. "ith the tire I

may have left I rould like to give my finily thé attention it rightully

deserves.

It would be noso dishonest vim if I didn't commeni vi ine 10-

cont events which have led to the severance of direct liaison zith te

Central Intelligence Agency, Since I have been the principal. Bureau cle-

men't in the day to day relations bebreen the organizations, to uns ocon

my responsibility. do anticipate probleus, nove in on the siturtion, and

er teet Bureau interests in an efficiont nd effective monner.

I leave 1'e-

rieved ry position in this latest development, and I certainly nart share

responsibility for the tragic vurn of events.

I. believe that I nirl have

employed better perception by following developmonts in Denver more closcly.

¡I deeply rogret ünis. I do not liko to fail. I do not like io losc.

I have been involved in intelligence operations dating back to

our Solas, history, and 1 thing I can spenk wich sore mithorauy in rat-

ing that never in cur history has this nation been faced with moger se-

curity threats frow commmist intelligerce scrvices who, thirus no??ce

sinte organizations, have devcloped unuaully sophisticated crp-pilities

to strike ai cur vulner-bilitios of a democr-tic and free s'cinty.

LANCE 1Y

Manese from CDS, Calegory

Date of Decker ilerion lo efin

continuing and triority. target of the Bloc is to noneur-te and colit or

disrupt our irternal recurity and intelligence orgarizations.

Conting to

The tempo of the tines muny yors ago, there is hardly an intplli rio on

er-üion or an internal secrity cose chich does not have circet ri in frect

....

interintional raniiicntions.

The course of events and the birtly cmcule

effectiveness of Connunist-Bloc intelligence services have alored terens-

ing burdens on is and have necessitated close vorting relations : 16i: 0,

miliury intellircrce services and other agencico.

"any cases, the rapid mens of travel id commication, the d-ily crcur-

ence of emergency type political develonients in maricus mits ni the

old have varited direet liaison with approximbly tunty Cr ritic-

'Inle on a drily insis. In iódition, tecre re abut thirty crisins

contacted uh loser frequency. Te BurgATfONA? lECURitY'INFoRMATIoN

HW 55325 DooId:32989717 Page 103

SECRET

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subiect to Criminal Sanctiong

---

## Page 104

• 02.

ei

Invelligence Bonid na

sub-coiltica-hich cover

ters such as

handling of defort.iu.

valorent of connier prorris,

lonks of classi-

Died inforntion and rodiction of intellirence studies.

taches have roason, to conüact bas on a regular besis, jund archolan it res

bech a shall volung ca

isiness, the line ei commientlon between 0:2 ac-

rostic offices and

CIa renresent-Lives has beon definitely uscaul.

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

The daily business with Ch relates to hundreds of cases portinin to

activities-of n11., Communist-Bloc services, the le: left, Black Mational-

ists, the Coonnist Farty d related orgninations, and political crises.

in areas such is Victner, the fiddle last, and Intin America.

Theoretic-

ally, all business could be handled by mail, but fron a practic. at-rà-

point such a crocedure fill ica, io unbelievrole chaos.

There will ie

lanost insurcuntrole obst cles if we me to discharge our duties in :

resconsible timer and if'e are to countcr a relentless croy in te

interest of naüioml security. Becausc interesüs oê other ngencies -re

frequently intertuincd ith cases involving the burenu and ClA, thc brea

in iBI-CIA liaison vill adversely eifect our liaison with such agcreies.

I think you will shore my alarm over the consequences once ire

word is received by the "troops" in all U:S. agencies that EBI and I!

no longer have any liaison, Unfortunately, there ill be individuals no

will maliciously distort and misinteraret the true facus, "ithin a short

period, ühore will be stories in tie press, ain ünist of oll the Coura

nist-slos corvices ill pick un a choice entree for the pronocion of sic-

tle. 1kil110k and extremely barnaul cisruntion.

I an absolutely convinced

that the intelligence services of Great Brinin, trance, est Germany tra

others are well pencurated by the soviets.

1 can't beliore that, the cari-

bys, the Blakes, the Alrer hisses were the last of the penctrations:

mention this bec-use if such peneti-tions exist, the break in relitions

between the lbI and CIA vill provide a-basis for promoting further rilos.

This is the first tire in our history that such an event hos occurred, ra

It is difficult to believe that the eneny will not make every effort to

reap the grestest profit possible. Bricity, ir. Hoover, I lnve too muci

respect for jou and our fBI to expose us to a potentially disastrous sit:-

ation.

Although the Denver incident is a blight on the rel-tions c-

tween the isI and CIA, it would be most unfair of me not to comment on

the dedicated and selfless efforts of nunerous individuals in Cl ho

strived

for honest and harmonious relations. As a result of their en-

deavors there have been many services performed in behalf of the Burea:

including noüable and outstanding accomplishments. He have been furnishes

sources, informnts, solid productive cases, technical advice and equip

teal and there hive been instancas of cooperation inich led to subetas-

saving, of buread iunds.. Inere also nave bech exariples o1 alertness

on the part of Cli choloyes which prevented bureau conmission of errors

and averted crbarrassrent. Among some of the more significant examnlos

of cooneration. I cile the excellent and badly needed assistince of CLI

in the Rudolph duel case. I also refer to the Agency's providing us ith

one of the better criminal informints we have had in recent yours in tre

person of NAME

I only refer to the foregoing to emphasize

that, if at all possible, we should preserve the good friends and the

supporters of the Bureau.

ShET

It is recognized that one con also present a bill of partic-

ulars relating to craples of peer cooperition and deliberate stuldur

HH

55gerv.DoqInnA?Pa9d4Bribaver dotnose in CIA who disrupted relations beticen

---

## Page 105

10010 tchid his

ative ide, a lived

the mo monodd mo doi

• crumbion will reveal tire the monroer ci

such types at the moread tie is noclicibie no their indlaccee ir -ost

completola neutanlines.

Cu aloo bilioves that in this

mac T mad not Made Get 1 & 20г000TG06 tahick, Gha the ArCy 161526

edly eula resort a list ci cricrncer.

years ito il

acterired as being dovio and tere ins a rcided cinnaphere oi rictrust.

Happily, tiat is not

he stortion rodry.

I an confident are dos oro

into coy segront of Cli, More med abroad, and son will jind thrt mdelity,

Brevery, can Intogrity are sincerely relatna do the isI,

The problons in

post jerrs unimily prose ton unbelievably poer commication maig in-

tcrested : aries.

Bits coumiention ons roch gro.bly improved iccuuse ca

the eficuis of runy dediented peoplo.

improvere.

In ois on duren tere are mucrons atticials and elores

who have littlo or no menicago of the bactaround and the principles o1

the National Becurity Act of 1947 end of the Rational Security Council

Directives.

in addition, these sume pcople have a vague conception ol

the objectivos and fanctics of on intelligence orgenimation.

Siil-ris,

within Chi there noe very mony chose conceroich of die 13t, dis 10115-

diction, its objoctives, ius ind enforcercht characier, is stocking at

tines.

tremondous progress has bech made, baù to 25 not cosy to nr:01-

iously coorainate tne onentions oi an momintim designed to oper ve

in a clondestine ranuce with an aconey wich is basic-lly a lar enforce-

mant bony.

is suill composed of a fragile iabric. Che incident potentially con de-

stroy jears of constructive offort.

ix. Hoover, I romectaully recuest tint you reconsider the

decision to sever liaison with the Central Intelligence Agency.

I appeal

to you to leave the door open for furtner deliberntion bacause I am co-

fident this conitiot can be satisfactorily resolved. I believe that my

renoval tro: the scene provides the opporumity to auroint another agent

who will casure us to your desirca copabilities and who vill be 2010 o

rabidly resolve the problem titn a new and Iresh approsch.

It is a rood

time to roarine our relations with Cli and to make adjustments satis-

factory to: 0u.

since i rearily

appreciate

cause of the very natire of my assiment these many years and because

of my invoiverent in this controversial case.

ly years with the Bureru gave me more satisf ction then anyone

can imagine.

You would have to moi me better to aporeciate this.

want to assure you thrt sherever I go or whalever 1 do 1 will be premrcd.

to be of service in ony causo which involves the preservation of a strong

and resported ill.

sincerely yours.

ni agrich

San Papich

SECRET

HH 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 105

---

## Page 106

TO

:

FROM

SUBJECT:

Memorancim

Kro

DeLoach

H. C. Sullivan

DATE: March 5, 1970

RELATIONSHIPS WITH CIA

Attached is, a memorandum dictated by Special Agent

Sam J. Papich in response to the Director's request for the

Identification of the instances Papich had in mind when in

his retirement request he indicated that CIA "believes that

memorandum.

A review of the 25-page document reveals that it

contains several instances in which CiA has registered its

dissatisfaction and could conceivably renew its complaints,

presumably. CIA had no knnwledge of Bureay

action and has made no complaint.

For the Director's further information, I have

instituted in this Division an analysis of each situation cited

and a nemorandum will be prepared as toeach, containing my

Views and recommendations as a result of that analysis. This

15 being handled on an expedite basis and the memoranda will

be sent through as soon as possible

' This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissima

;

nation outside your Committee.

nation onside your Committen Mis me l limite to o icial proceedings is

I nel without the express approval of the FBI .

HH 55325

DooId:32989717 Page 106

---

## Page 107

.... i

Offire of thy Attarmy Graval

ashington, D. C. 20530

May 2, 1975

Iloya N. Cutler, Esquire

Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering

1666 K Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C.

20006

Dear Mr. Cutler:

Pursuant to our discussions concerning the disposition of

certain records relating to the surveillance activities

directed at your client, Mr. Joseph Kraft, the Department

is making the following temporary arrangements:

I. Pending further vepartmental action relating

to the policies which will govern records of the

¿ype invuived in in. Traft's case, all. documente.

recordings, or other records of any type in the

Department!

scustody or control which constitute,

summarize, or describe the contents of the over-

hearings obtained

as the result of any electronic

surveillance directed against Mr. Kraft and mem-

bers of his family will be placed under seal..

2.

As long as the items described above remain

under seal, no official or employee of the Depart-

ment will have access to them for any purpose, and

no official or employee of the Department will

allow any person outside of the Department to have

any such access, except as described below.

The

only material referring to these items will be a

single index cara needed to locate the sealed iters.

The index card will bear only Mr. Kraft's name and

a file number.

Should some future need which we do not now

foresee require any official or employee of the

Department to obtain of permit access to the

aforesaid

items, the decision on suchaccess shall

be made personally by the Attorney Ceneral. The

Attorney Cencral shall not grant any access without

notifying ir. iraft or his counsel in writing at

least ten days prior thereto, and providing him or

HH

55325 • DocId: 32989717' Page T07-

---

## Page 108

-2-

then an opportunity to discuss the matter per-

-sonally with the Attorney General before the

grant is made.

The notice shall set forth the

date upon which access will be permitted if it is

granted, and

the purpose for which and person by

whom access is sought. The Attorney General will

personally inform Mr. Kraft or his counsel of a

decision to grant access as soon as practicable.

after it is made, but in any event at least five

business days before access occurs.

4.

Although this arrangement is not intendea to

constitute a permanent solution to the questions

you have raised concerning these documents, it

will not be rescinded or modified by the Attorney •

General or his successors unless the Attorney Gen-

eral gives fir. Kraft or his counsel ten days'

prior notice and affords him or them an opportun-

ity to discuss the matter personally with the

Atiorney General before he rescinds or modifies

tho agicamant.

Is the attornay Ceneral then

decides to rescind or modify this agreement he

shal]. personally nIorm Mr:

Kraft or his counsel

of that decision at least five business days before

lit is implemented.

As a result of our discussions, I understand that this

•temporary arrangement is acceptable to Mr. Kraft, of coursa

without waiver of any legal rights he may have as a result

of prior surveillances.

As I advised you, we are working

now on general policy dcterminations which, we hope, will

offer a permanent solution to the problem this settles tere-

orarily.

Of course, under the terms of this agreement we

will notify you of any policy determination which would

involve a modification of this agreement.

Until a final policy is determined, this agreement shoula

assure Mr. Kraft that no person will read or otherwise use

these socuments in

any. manner so long as they remain under

Blie seal arrangement.

Sincerely,

let.

Attorney General

55325

DocId: 32989717

Page 108

---

## Page 109

DATI

sit do '

"UNITED STATES G.

NMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

: The Director

DATE: March 5,

1970

ROM : Sam J. Papich

UBJECT: RELATIONS WITH CIA

Reference is made to my letter of 3/2/70. I made the

statement, "Unfortunately., CIA also belieres that in the past

we did not always act in a forthright manner, and the Agency

undoubtedly could present a list of grievances." It is my

understanding that you want such grievances identified. There•

1s enclosed herewith'a list of cases or situations which arose

over the years.

Based upon a revier of files and my personal recollectio=

this list would

be representative of matters which CIA could use

for making charges such

aS:

not being forthright, not playing

fairly and squarely, not cooperating, not being of assistance,

not recognizing the

need for concrete FBI contributions to the

foreign intelligence effort.

What CIA may have compiled over the i

years is unknown. What situations are known to CIA and have not

come to our attention cannot be answered at this time. I am

thinking of leaks including distorted information which may have

been passed to CIA from ex-Bureau employees and CIA informants

and sources;

It should be clearly emphasized that there is no

indication whatsoever within CIA that the Agency has been seeking

say kind of a showdown or confrontation with the FBI. Contrary,

to what some people may believe, the relationship between the

two agencies up to the recent crisis was never better despite

the problems which have arisen from time to time. I am contident

that a thorough and impartial examination will conclusively

support the foregoing

In order that there may not'be any misunderstanding, it

is important to emphasize that the Bureau can also produce an

extensive list of justified grievances. We can also produce an'

excellent record of support which we have given CIA; presumably

ClA could do the same.

There are ingredients for continuing

conflict and there is also adequate machinery for maintaining

sound working relations and producing badly. needed intolligence

information.

...

Classificd by 12

Exempt from GDS, Category 283

Date of Declassification Indefinite

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclasure®

Subject to Criminal Sanctiong

HH 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 109

---

## Page 110

scrorandum to tr

RE: RELATIONS H

•H CIA

SEUiLI

-

I belleve that it would be most helpful to you and

interested Bureau officials when evaluating and passing judgment

on the attached material if we analyzed very briefly the role

of the Bureau liaison Agent. A liaison Agent can be a simple

mail courier or he can be the true Bureau Agent ready to confront

any problem or issue with another-gency, very often working with

very limited information. It is expected that the Bureau Agent

carry out his instructions forcefully and efficiently. He must

be prepared to handle all types of personalities under various

conditions. He must be alert for pitfalls and express himself

in a most judicious and prudent manner but

always making certain

that the Bureau position is well fortified.

In evaluating the attached and my encounters with CIA,

it should be noted that protests from the Bureau always were

easy to handle because the Agent had J. Edgar Hoover behind bin.

However, when an Agent struck at:an official on one day and

solicited his cooperation the next day, it did require some

resourceful action.

It is believed that other liaison Agents

regularly encounter similar situations.

On numerous occasions

I have bittorly fouded with CIA officials and this las included

rough language. I have walked out on CIA officials when I felt

they were unreasonable. They took the initiative by asking the

Agent to return.

I did try to play fairly and squarely with all

of them and never hesitated to accept a confrontation; this includ.

the Director of the Agency.

When

I lectured to CIA personnel

over the years I always made a point to challenge them to present

any grievances or raise any subject matter relating to the

• Bureau. I never left a discussion with any CIA official without

'being positive that our position was absolutely understood.

The approaches utilized by me might be open to criticism.

can only refer, to the records of the Bureau and CIA and

I believe

the Bureau's position is most favorable.

I don't think CIA has

ever transmitted a letter of protest to the Bureau during the

eighteen years during which the Agent handled the assignment.

ACTION:

For information.

Taylor des

SECHET

#: 00010.

MH 55325

DocId: 32989717 Page 110

---

## Page 111

•CASES AND/OR SITUATIONS

INVOLVING CONFLICTS WITH THE

• CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)

(1) MOCASE (THE BORIS MORROS CASE) .

This was a sensitive Soviet-espionage case

which originated in 1943 and terminated for the most

part in 1957.

The case had many wide loreign ramifi-

cations and historically has been, and undoubtedly

will be, one of the most important. and involved cases

of Soviet operations in this country and abroad.

did not disseminate any iniormation of significance

In this case until 1954. On various occasions when

the Liaison Agent has become involved in heated argu

ments with CIA officials, they have seen fit to raise

this case as an outstanding example of FBI failure to

cooperate with the Agency.

The position taken by CIA

was that it should have been advised regarding the

Soviet operational activity in foreign countries,

claiming that the Agency would have had the opportunity

to develop more information of significance, identify

Soviet agents, and possibly prepare conditions for

recruitment or doubling of Soviet operatives. He did

not disseminate our reports to CIA because of the

extreme sensitivity of the case.

We actually did not

permit CIA to handle any investigations relating to

the MOCASE until 1957.

In 1957, CIA complained that it certainly had

every right to have received the information earlier

because many aspects of the MOCASE pertained to CIA

employees and operations. CIA further argued that it

had been greatly handicapped in effectively carrying out

the leads in 1957 because the leads were given to the

Agency at the same time that the case was publicized.

The Agency argued that the failure of the Bureau to

coordinate with CIA those French aspects of the case

permitted the french, rather than the U.S., to play &

donnating role in Europe.

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure.

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

STIL

HN 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 111

---

## Page 112

SEGMET

With regard to dealing with the French, we

took the position that we would cover the leads through

our Legal Attaches wherever possible and to furnish

leads to CIA in those countries where we did not have

Legal Attaches. CIA maintained that since we were on

record that our legal Attaches do not handle operations

abroad, the Bureau had an obligation to levy those French

leads on CIA or at least coordinate with the Agency.

before going to the French.

it is to be noted that in any argument relating

to jurisdiction in this matter, CIA will fall back on the

responsibilities placed on the Agency under the provisions

of the National Security Act of 1947 and the implementation

of the foregoing through National Security Council Direc

tives. CIA will maintain that' it is incumbent upon the

Bureau to recognize the provisions of the National Security

Act of 1947 and the Directives.

The 'Agency would argue

that in the MOCASE. these were ignored by the Bureau.

(2)

SENSITIVE ONGOING OPERATION

• 77073

• 2=

KH 55325 DocId: 32989717 Page 112

---

## Page 113

SEGRET

SENSITIVE ONGOING OPERATION (continued from page 2)

SECRET

OTO

HH 55325 DooId:32989717

Page 113

---

## Page 114

SECRET

SENSITIVE ONGOING OPERATION (continued from page 2 and 3)

(3) THE ABEL, CASE

Although CIA has not raised the point for

several years, the prevailing attitude was; and probably

still exists,

that the fBI did not play it square with

CiA in the abel case by not making certain that the

Agency Has given the proper recognition for its contri-

butions. CIA feels that in the first place, there would

not have been any U. S. access or availability to the

source in this case,

NAME

because CIA took

the full responsibility for moving

NAME from PLACE

Ito the U. S. in 1957. CIA claims it took the risk and

responsibility of doing this after the Bureau declined

to become involved in any operation designed to transport

NAME

to the.U. S. It should be noted that NAME

was an alcoholic and that his first contacts with CIA

in PLACE raised questions concerning NAME

mental

stability.

After NAME arrived in the U. S., me

arranged access to him for a period, the purpose of

which was to obtain a complete story of his intelli-

gence activities in the U.S. and we were particularly

interested in identifying all of his associates, es

pecially the man who later was identified as Rudolph

After a short handling period in the U. Soy-se

dropped NAME because he became a problem.

was

an extremely critical*

situation because we had not yet

Identified Abel. CIA agreed to take the responsibility

for the carrying and saleguarding of NAME but we

∞ ds

HN 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 114

---

## Page 115

were given free access to this difficult source. ' This

was & most fortunate arrangement as far as CIA was con~

cerned, because this adjustment gave us the time to fork

with

NAMÉ

and subsequently develop the leads which

led tö the apprehension of Abel. The Agency has main-

tained that it was largely responsible for making

absolutely certain that NAME

was mentally and

physically prepared for testimony at the Abel trial.

NAME

was a key witness.

CIA has- also referred to

the heavy expenses incurred by the Agency, all for the

benefit of the Bureau. CIA has complained that the

Bureau never really thanked the Agency for its coopera-

tion and CIA has been particularly irked becaused the

Bureau did not see fit to inform the. Attorney General

lor the White House of the role played by CIA.

(1)

NAME OF SUBJECT

...=

In July, 1953, Senator

NAME

sought

to subpoena NAME

AND

OCCUPATION

to

testify before the Senator's Committee.

NAME

claimed

that MAME

alleged communist activities were clearly

documented. The most serious allegation was that

had

IDENTIFYING

DATA

All of this ras publicized... The infornation set forth

in the newspapers emanated

from a Bureau report. CIA

• CIA officials held numerous con-

ferences concerning the matter but charges were never

nade against the bureau.

What information CIA has on

this particular ltem is not knows but the agency dio

know that we maintained liaison with NAME

Committee.

(5)

BUREAU DISSELINATION OF INFORMATION CONCERNING

In Hay, 1954, Allen Dulles raised the question

concerning the propriety of FBI dissemination of information

COnCerning

NAME

This information had been fur-

inished to us by

NAME.

& former official of the

SECRET

HH 55325 DocId: 32989717 Page 115

---

## Page 116

SECRET

Department of Labor.

When interviewed by us, NAME

made several accusations against CIA. We disseminated

the information to the White House, the Attorney General,

and some data also went to the State Department. Dulles

took the position that by disseminating derogatory in-

formation concerning his Agency, he had been placed on.

the spot because the

• NAME

data was not the

complete story: In the past, CIA Informally referred

to this as an instance of very unfair conduct on the part

of the Bureau.

(6) BUREAU HANDLING OF CIA REQUESTS FOR TOURS

FOR FOREIGN OFFICIALS

On occasions in the 1950's,

CIA complained that

officials visiting the U. S. under CIA sponsorship were

given excellent treatment on the tour but, nevertheless,

many of the visitors left most disappointed because they

had not had any contact with any Bureau officials.

CIA

felt that contact with Bureau officials had very

significant

benefits and left lasting favorable impressions because of

the FBI's world-wide reputation.

CIA also pointed out that

when foreign visitors had no contact with Bureau officials,

they were left with

the suspicion that there was some kind

of friction between the FBI and CIA..

In 1956, we had a

clear-out policy to the effect that

tours for

such visi

tors would be of a restrictive nature in that such

visitors would view our facilities normally seen by the

public and

nothing more. CIA was so informed but

a cover died a it congrate one oral.

that our policy prevented the

It should beemphasized that for the past several

gears there would not be any basis for any fornd complaint

with regard to Bureau treatment of foreign officials coming

'to the U. S. under CIA sponsorship. The personal attention

• Igiven to such officials by

NAME

and

jother officials and Supervisors in the Domestic Intelligence

Division has been outstanding and benefits have accrued to

' the Bureau. These visitors have gone back to their native

«no

1J 55725 DocId: 32989717 Page 116.

-....

---

## Page 117

OLENCY

countries with far better impressions than in the

past.

In addition, we have learned more about these

countries, their services, and their sécurity chiefs

• by spending a few minutes with them. Needless to say,

this kind of treatnent has also inmeasurably helped

our •legal Attaches.

(7) CIA - DUTCH INTEREST IN SOVIET ESPIONAGE ACTIVITY

In 1965, the. Dutch Internal

Security Service

was in the process of investigating individuals in

Holland who allegedly had been engaged in Soviet-espionage

activity. The Dutch wanted to have certain individuals

in the U. S. Interviewed and approached CIA to make

inquiry at the Bureau. At that time, our relations

with the Dutch had been practically nonexistent because

the Dutch had failed to honestly deal' with us in the

case of

NAME AND IDEVTIFYING DATA

who had been

clandestinely collecting intelligence at the National

security Agency.

When CIA approached us, we-told

the Agency that

the Dutch could submit their request

through-diplomatic channels. He subsequently told CIa

we would not handle the interviews for the Dutch. Ne

stuck to our position. CIA surrendered but felt that

we were impairing their efforts to gather infornation

concerning soviet-espionage activities in Europe.

(8)

TWO NAMES

NAME

-IDENTIFTING

--

"DATA

, during Horld War It, established a

private intelligence netrork,

operating throughout the

world but prinarily in Europe.

His sources included

any number of European exiles who came to the U. S.

Khile he was in business, he was financed by the State

Department, then the department of the Army, and in the

Ister 1940's and into the 1950's by CIA.

nato the test s

NAME

established contact with the Bureau through one of

his subordinates,

NAME

who periodically called

SEGRET

HH 55325 DooId:32989717 Page 117

---

## Page 118

SEEKLI.

on us and furnished information which NAME felt

was of interest to us.

This dissemination through

NAME

continued

during the period of

relationship with CIA. We never informed CIA that we

were receiving such infornation which also was of

interest to the Agency.

It is possible that

had given the same data to CIA but we do not know. CIA

and

NAME

clashed and the relationship was severed

in an atmosphere of severe bitterness.

In the last

years of its dealings' with NAHE • • the Agency had

successfully penetrated the latter's organization and

allegedly had identified many of the sources. CIA

hinted to the Liaison Agent that it had become aware

of the relationship between NAME

organization

and the Bureau. How much CIA really learned about

this relationship is not known but if its penetrations

were significant, the Agency may have developed evidence

not kno

to justify a charge that the Bureau lad withheld infor-

mation from CIA, particularly when we were receiving

the data from an organization which was financed by

the

Agency.

(9) COMMISSION ON THE ORGANIZATION OF THE

EXECUTIVE BRANCH OF THE GOVERNMENT

(Herbert Hoover Commission. - 1954)

In October, 1954, a task force of the captioned

Commission initiated a survey of CIA's operations under

the leadershipai

NAME

In MONTH, 1955,

we were advised by a representative of the task force

that Senator.

NAME

had furnished the group a

I1st of CIA employees who were considered subversive.

CIA became cognizant of this development and there was

talk within the Agency that the Bureau had furnished

the names to the Senator.

When the Lizison Agent was

Informally approached on this, he flatly told the Agency

to officially submit its charges. The Agency never did.

What information CIA may have had on this matter as it

pertained to the Bureau is not known. It is possible that

!the Agency's attitude was strictly predicated on a knowledge

•I that we maintained liaison with the Senator's Committee.

SECRET

∞ 80

1H55322 DacId: 32089717 Page 118

---

## Page 119

SECRET

(10) INTERNAL SECURITY LEADS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES

During the 1950's, we gave our Legal Attaches

numerous leads stemming from internal security cases in

the U. Si

In many instances we did not see fit to

notify CIA although the Agency always maintained

that

you could not separate "internal Security" from "counter-

communist in

last several years, it is not believed that there is

any basis for complaint since we have regularly been

notifying CIA concerning subjects of cases who travel

abroad.

If the Legal Attache is investigating, clA is

notified in order to avoid duplicate efforts. There

have been exceptions where we have taken the position

that CIA should not be notified because of the sensitivity

of the matter. How many such exceptions are known to

Cla cannot be established Iron our Itles; however, we

should boar in mind that when nur legal Attaches inves.

tigate, they contact many of the same foreign officials

normally contacted by CIA. How many of these foreign

officials are CIA informants, or on the Agency payroll,

is unknown.

(12) BUREAU OPERATIONS IN CUBA

: He operated informants in Cuba when we had a

Legal Attache's Office in Havana. Informants reported

on activities of communists and other subversives in

that country. During the period we operated these

Informants, we did not coordinate our operations with

CIA. We did not advise the Agency that we had such

sources.

however, in 1950, after Castro

• came on the

scene, it became infeasible to handle certain intormants

in a secure manner. Approval was granted to turn certain

informants over to CIA. What these informants may have

subsequently told CIA about past Bureau operations is

unknown. This item is being cited in the event CIa bad

evidence to establish that we had been operational in

Cuba and had not coordinated with the Agency pursuant

to Directives.

SEC2Y

ЗАЕ!

∞ 9

HH 55325 DooId:32989717 Page 119

---

## Page 120

divitas.

(12) BUREAU OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL -

In YEAR the U. S. Ambassador in Brazil accused

our Legal Attache of engaging in uncoordinated covert

intelligence activity "of a nature which I believe

exceeds his terms of reference."

The Ambassador further

indicated that CIA was unhappy over -the Legal Attache's

activities and the Agency allegedly had told the Ambassador

As an

that the Legal Attache had disseminated information from

& source who was a fabricator or a provocator.

This

situation arose as a result of the Legal Attaches

operation of an informant in Brazil.

Some of the

Information that he received from the informant was

of a derogatory nature and related to a Brazilian who

was being touted as a Presidential candidate. CIA

• asked for the identity of the informant and we told

the Agency that the person could not be identified

because he did not wish that his identity be disclosed.

This case is being cited because CiA may have evidence

that we had been operational in Brazil, had not coordi-

nated pursuant to Directives, and that

the matter vas

further aggravated because of the alleged unreliability

of the information.

(13) BORDER COVERAGE

INVOLVES SENSITIVE METHODS AND TECHNIQUES

• great.

SEGRET

HH 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 120

---

## Page 121

SECRET

SENSITIVE METHODS AND TECHNIQUES

(Continued from page 10)

(14) CODE NAME

In May, YEAR

the Bureau's' double Agent in the

captioned case was advised by his Soviet contact that he

was

to have a neeting in

PLACE

during the period

DATE

A question arose as to whether CIA

should be intormed concerning the double Agent's travel

to PLACE

it was recommended and approved that we

not advise CIA.

That is important here is that CIA established

contact with our double agent at one point. The Agency

may have had further contact without our knowledge. The

Agency may have also picked up the contact with the Soviet •

IN PLACE

The case is being highlighted since we

cannot exclude the possibility that the Agency has evidence

to demonstrate that we were operational in PLACE and we

did not coordinate with the Agency.

(15) CIA REQUESTS FOR BUREAU LECTURE ON COMMUNISM IN THE U.S.

On September 25, 1958, CIA inquired 11 NAME

could give a lecture on the communist movement

in the U.s.

It was recommended that NAME

give the

lecture.

Such lectures were being afforded in other parts

of the Government. The Director made the notation "ye

CannOt maKe NAME

available to this outfit." The

Agency accepted this as an affront and a blatant refusal

• •

e il

HH 55325 Do0Id:32989717 Page 121

---

## Page 122

liste

to cooperate on a most important subject of interest

to both agencies.

(26) CASE OF

NAME

On July 9, 'TEAR an official of the State

Department confidentially

advised the Bureau that

NAME

a CIA employee in pLAcE, bad been

InvOlVed in an aIIalI With a FORgIN gIrL. ACCording

NAME

allegedly had furnished information

to the FoREIGN girl.. He checked with the State Department

and CIA and we confirmed

MAHE

an affair and that he had been recailed.

involved 1n.

According to

CIA and

State Department, there was no indication that

NAME

involved in any espionage against the

U. S. CIA gave consideration to requesting the Bureau

to iueniify iis source and then changed iis mind.

Whether CIA has documented this as an instance where

the Bureau failed to cooperate by not volunteering the

source is a matter of conjecture but, it is a case that

should be kept in mind.

(27). NAME OF CASE

In April, 1963, we becane: involved with CIA in

that Agency's efforts to collect sensitive information

relating to FoREIGN Governent intentions to conduct

espionage against the U.S. CIA had access to a sensitive

source,

, who was in a position to make

available highly important FoREIGN documents. On April 11,

1963, CIA informed us that our Legal attache in PLAcE had

locally contacted

CIA concerning this matter. CIA Head-

quarters was highly disturbed because its office in pLACE

had not been cut in on this operation and the Agency wanted

to be informed regarding the nature and the extent of our

dissemination of CIA Information to our Legal Attache. We

SECRET

• 12 -

MH 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 122.

---

## Page 123

SECRES

determined that the Legal Attackehad made inquiries in

PLACE in response to leads which had

been sent from Bureau

Headquarters.

This matter is being highlighted because

•It was a vitally important operation to CIA and the Agency

had received indications that information had been leaked

tO FOREIGN

authorities. We have no evidence or reason to

believe that the Legal Attache Office ever involved itself

in any such leak. However, we should not, under any cir-

cumstances, discount the fact that CIA has penetrated

Forelau services and has had access to sensitive information

1n PLACE

The ForEIGN have always had an outstanding cap-

ability of tapping phones and installing

• microphones in

PLACE

Such coverage on U.S. officials, including their

residences, should never be excluded. The information we

had conveyed to our Legal Attache possibly may have been

acquired by the Forelgi through clandestine coverage. ClA

possibly could charge us with

handling their sensitive

Information in an insecure manner by'transmitting it to

PLACE without conferring with the Agency.

In connection with alleged Forelay espionage

activity in the U.S., CIA has never been satisfied with

the efforts made by the Bureau.

The Agency possibly could

take the position that we looked lightly at the allegations

and did not pursue a matter which, in their eyes, merited

& more aggressive approach.

. a position that

the FOREIGN Intelligence Service

For some time, CIA has held tons penetrated by

the Soviets. The Agency has pointed out that If the FoREIGù

-

are collecting sensitive information in the U. S., the

product is ending up in Moscow. • In January, 1964, we

reviewed the status of our investigation of ForeIGN intel-

ligence activities in the U. S. The Director commented

"I think this whole thing has been imaginary on the part

of CIA which has been played as a sucker by NAME

I would waste no more time on it at least until all CIA

played ag

restrictions are removed." CIA did impose restrictions

by not permitting us to pursue certain leads because it

feared that its sensitive source would be jeopardized.

SECRET

13 -

HH 55325 DodId: 32989717 Page 123

---

## Page 124

SECRET

(18) LEAKS TO THE '"NATIONAL REVIEW" - 1959

• In April, 1959, CIA became concerned over the

appearance of certain items in issues of the "National

Review.". The publication carried a column authored by.

an unidentified individual who was making derogatory

references to CIA. CIA subsequently identified the

author as

NAME

a former CIA employee. CIA

investigation indicated that NAME was obtaining his

Information from former CIA Agents. In checking on

NAME CIA identified some of his friends who were

listed as

Internal security Subcommittee; and

former member of the Senate

Assistant to the Director. The Liaison Agent was unable

to develop any additional information as it might have

pertained to NAME

in this particular matter. CIA

may have additional data not revealed.

(19) TRAVEL OF BUREAU INTORMANTS TO CUBA

In September, 1965, we received information

Indicating that oneof our informants on the Mexican border

was in a position to travel to Cuba. A question was raised

concerning CIA interest in this matter, 1f the informant

made the trip. it was recommended and approved that we

not advise CIA concerning the identity of the informant

or his trip to Cuba.

It is not known if CIA acquired any knowledge

but, if the Agency did, we potentially are vulnerable.

The Agency could charge that we were operating outside

of the U.S. and we failed to coordinate with the Agency.

(20) DISSEMINATION OF CIA INFORMATION IN A BUREAU MONOGRAPH

By letter dated May 5, 1955, we disseminated to

Interested agencies, Including CIA, a copy of a monograph

entitled "Communism

in the Dominican Republic." The mono-

graph contained considerable information which had emanated

014 ∞

HH 55325

DocId: 32989717 Page 124

---

## Page 125

SECRET

from CIA.. We did not obtain clearance from CIA for

the inclusion ofthis information in our monograph.

Clearance approval was not obtained because of the

urgency of the document. CIA was irritated because

It considered our action a distinct violation of the

third agency rule. The Agency never made any protest.

(21) BUREAU INFORMANTS IN PLACE

In 1966, and 1967, we were operating informants

in

_FLAGE

• At the inception of our operational ac-

tivity, CIA vas not informed. In one case, we finally

were able to effect the necessary arrangements with CIA

whereby the Bureau would be permitted to run the informant

In PLACE

In the second instance, we established an

agreement with CIA in October,' 1967, that we could con-

tinue handling an informant in

placE: with the under-

standing that the Bureau Agent, on the occasion of each

visit, would confer with the local CIA office on political

information collected from the intormant.

These iwo cases

had all the makings of a conflict. CIA was under the

definite impression that we had been running these

informants before we had finally coordinated with them.

It is true that the CIA Chief in PLACE

was much

incensed but no issue was made at CIA Headquarters and

thematter was put to rest.

CIA may have developed concrete evidence that

we were operating in PLACE bearing in mind that in

& place such as

PLACE

., it would not be difficult

for a CIA intelligence officer to spot an FBI Agent in

contact with FOREIGNERS

Our potential vulnerability is

that we were operating in pLace

without coordinating

with CIA.

(22) CODE NAME

CURRENT SENSITIVE

OPERATION

SEENET

• 15

IN 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 125

---

## Page 126

•.

CURRENT SENSITIVE OPERATION -

Cortinued from page 15

(23) HARRASSHIENT OF CIA

By letter dated November 15, 1967, CIA inquired

if the Bureau would check the toll calls on the home

telephone of one

NAME

who was harrassing

CIA in the Miami area. Nate allegedly was seeking

information concersing the Agency's covert operations.

•He told CIA that we would not check the toll calls.

He

explained that on the basis of the information received,

there was not sufficient information to justify investigation

falling within theBureau's

our response but there is do doubt that the agency

CIA accepted

characterized our position as a concrete example of

refusal to help a sister agency with a problem relating

to the security of U. S: intelligence operations.

(24)

SENSITiVE DOCUMENT

CIA became very irked when ve restricted

dissenination of our SENSITIVE DACUMENT

tO

two copies for the Agency. CIA took the position with

• the Liaison Agent: that CIA always has been most liberal

In providing the Bureau with as many copies as we needed

wen it involved various types of CIA material. The

Agency never made an Official issue of this matter. The.

Liaison Agent is confident that CIA always considered this

au uncooperative gesture on our part.

∞ 16 m

• 10

HH 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 126

---

## Page 127

•(25) ESTABLISHIENT OF BURBAU LIAISON WITH

DUTCH INTERNAL SECURITY SERVICE - 1960

. In January, 1960, our Legal Attache,

traveled to Holland for the purpose of exploring arrange-

ments for liaison with appropriate Dutch authorities.

NAME

raised questions, pointing out that over

the years, all relations with the

• Dutch authorities bad

been handled through CIA: He indicated that before there

was any change in procedure, it would be necessary for

CIA and FBI to come to some form of an agreement.

Allen

Dulles subsequently expressed disappointment in

that bis

Agency had not been contacted by the Bureau prior to

exploring the liaison arrangement.

We eventually conferred

With CIA and came to an agreement satisfactory to all

parties concerned.*

Again, CIA could cite

National Security Council Directives.

In the latter part of 1959 we gave consideration to

establishing a Legal Attache in Copenhagen, Denmark. The

purpose of the assignment was to follor Bureau leads in

Denmark, Norway, Sweden, and Holland. We did not inform

CIA of ouI intentions.

(26) BUREAU DISSEUINATION OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE

_ INFORILATION TO FOREIGN SERVICES - DATE

By letter dated

ДДТЕ

, CIA raised

questions concerning the propriety of Bureau dissemination

TOl counterintelligence information to foreign intelligence

services. CIA, at that time, had particular reference to

Information which our legal Attache had transmitted to the

FoRECi Intelligence Service concernine KGS operations. CIA

•Itook the position that pursuant to the coordinating

CRETT

8170

IN 15325 DocLd:32982717 Page 127

---

## Page 128

SESHET

Directive, the Bureau was obligated to coordinate with

CIA prior

to such dissemination. The particular data

had emanated from one of our sensitive FoREIGN sources.

CODENAME Ne responded to CIA by stating that the

Information was the product of an internal security

operation and did not relate to any operational activity

abroad, CIA again surrendered. The Agency could argue

that it was responsible for following Soviet matters

with the FolEL Intelligence Service and that we had an

obligation of coordinating with the Agency.

(27) TITLE OF BOOK

AUTHOR

BOOK AUTHORED BY

In August,

1963, we received information indi-

cating that

AUTHOR

in the process of gathering

material for a book pertaining to activities of U. S.

Intelligence activities:.

AUTHOR

contacted

the Bureau. It was recommended that liaison orally advise

CIA that

AUTHOR

preparing a book con-

cerning U.S. intelligence

agencies. The Director. noted

"I see no reason doing so."

It is not known if CIA was aware of the contact

with the Bureau. AuTHor

subseguently published the

book which contained extremely derogatory information

concerning CIA.

(28) COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES - AFRICA

In April, 1960, CIA inquired if the Bureau would

give any consideration to assisting the Agency toward

developing coverage in Africa. CIA was looking for the

services of any Negro informant who might be available.

The Agency also inquired about placing a Negro in the

Communist Party, USA, under a plan which would have as

• an eventual objective; the sending of the informant to

1.

POTT

Pia Little t.

∞ 18 .

NW 55325 Docid:32989717 ,Page 128

---

## Page 129

SECRET

Africa under an appropriate cover and for an extended

period. We told CIA we had no informants available

because they were necessary for our own operations.

We

took the position that we saw no benefit to be gained by

loaning an informant on a short or long term basis.

This item is being mentioned because Africa

has become vitally important to U. S.. interest, bearing

In mind that both the soviets and Chinese Communists have

made significant inroads into the area.

CIA could argue

that as early as 1960, it had the foresight to recognize

the need for additional coverage, that it appealed to the

sureau for assistance, and that we did not cooperate.

(29) ADVISING THE WHITE HOUSE REGARDING CRITICISM

OF INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS - EUROPE

By letter dated October 23, 1964, we furnished

the White

• House information received

by our Legal Attache

from the

SOUPCE

He was critical

of intelligence operations in Europe and made particular

reference to the overstaffing of personnel.

He do not know if CIA became cognizant of the

existence of the Bureau letter bearing in mind that the

Agency undoubtedly would have considered the document as

relating to its operations.

We do know that for several years,.

CIA personnel have been assigned to the White House and had

access to considerable information.

(30) THE PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGANCE ADVISORY

BOARD AND JOHN WC CONs

In Hay, 1963, we became embroiled with CIA in a

rather critical conflict as a result of communication the

• Bureau sent to the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory

Board. The matter dealt with consideration that might be

given to increasing wire taps on dipiomatic establishnents.

SECRET

.e-o.

619∞

HIL 55325 DocId: 72289717 Page. 129

.. 0....

---

## Page 130

SECRET

In a portion of our communication, we attributed cer-

tain infornation to lcCone, then Director of CIA. He

charged that the information attributed to him was not

so because he. had never made any such statement and he

could prove it. The actual fact was that the information

relating to icCone had been given to us by öne of his

subordinates who had indicated that the information.

originated with: IcCone. McCone maintained that we

should have checked with bin before we went on record

that any information had. originated with him. The

record at the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory

Board nas subsequently corrected.

(31) ALLEGED PENETRATIONS OF CIA

In February, 1965, Bureau representatives met

with CIA officials and with

NAME

to discuss

allegations made by NAME

= Soviet defceter, relative

to alleged Soviet penetrations of CIA. NAME

HaS

Interviewed in detail concerning these allegations.

By

letter dated February 26, 1965, we officially advised CIA

that there appeared to be no basis at this time for a

full investigation of the individuals involved.

There are officials in CIA who continue to be

seriously concerned about possible penetrations of the

• agency and have not discarded NAME'S

allegations.

He do not have any reason to believe that CIA

has developed any substantive evidence to support NAME'S

allegations. If It does, we could be vulnerable and could

be charged that we did not cooperate and conduct the

nocessary investigation in 1965.

(32) VICE PRESIDENT NIXON'S TRIP TO SOUTR AMERICA - 1958

In 1958, Vice President Richard M. Nison traveled

to Latin America during which time there were numerous riots

and attacks which were directed against the Vice President

jand his party: By letter dated May 16, 1958, we provided

the Vice President with a summary of information which we

had received concerning the events in Latin America relating

∞ 20 .

HH 55325° DocId:32989717 Page 130

---

## Page 131

SECRET

to the trip.

Most of this information came from CIA.

Our letter could be interpreted as raising, the question

concerning the quality of CIA's coverage in Latin America.

•It is not known if CIA ever became knowledgeable

of the referenced communication. As already indicated,

we do know that CIA personnel have been assigned to the

White House.

TITLE

We also know that

'NAME AND

CIA, was attached to Vice

President Nixon's staff.

If CIA is cognizant of the communication, the

Agency technically could raise a question concerning a

violation of the third agency rule and, furthermore,

could question the Bureau's propriety of making reference

to CIA's coverage in Latin America,.

(33) . NAME Of SUBJECT

The captioned individual is a criminal infor-

mani won we have been utilizing to very significant advan-

tage in New York City. He has been the source of valuable

criminal intelligence

and has been a key witness in

prosecutions of cases being handled by the Bureau.

We

acquired access to NAME through CIA. A covert CIA

operator in Ner York City had become acquainted with

• MAHE

saw his potential as a source of criminal intelligence,

and then conferred with

NAME

CIA.

NAME

contacted the Bureau Liaison Agent and asked if the Bureau

was interested. Negotiations were initiated and we

subsequently, acquired the services of NAME

Although

the Agency has never officially made any statement to us,

It has been bitterly disappointed that the Bureau never

acknowledged CIA's assistance which the Agency considered

extremely valuable.

(34) EXCHANGE OF TECHNICAL INFORHATION

For many years, we maintained tight restrictions

with regard to the exchange of technical information with

CIA, particularly as it related to the technical surveillance

field.

CIA exhibited its equipment to us but, for many years,

ve declined to show any of our devices, with some exceptions.

.......'

• 21 c

HH 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 131

---

## Page 132

SECREI

CIA never made any official protest but informally

Indicated from time to time that the lack of exchange

in this highly important field was prejudicial to over-

all intelligence and internal security interests. The

Agency implied that we actually were nore open with the

British in this general area than we were with

CIA.

It should be noted that the foregoing situation

does not exist today. There is good exchange between the

Bureau and CIA.

(35) CIA LECTURERS AT BUREAU TRAINING SCHOOLS

CIA has never been able to understand why the

Bureau will not permit CIA personnel to lecture at Bureau

schools or training courses.

CiA has felt that through

a careful

selection of lecturers, the Agency could make

a very valuable contribution both to the Bureau and to

CIA. The Agency has indicated that its participation in

some of our courses mould give the Agency the opportunity

to describo cIA's organiaation, obicatives, and opcrational

problems. Furthermore, it has

personnel could be given the opportunity to pose questions

and there would be a far better over-all orientation on

the

part of our people.

The Liaison Agent has always resisted CIA's

request.

It has been a delicate matter to handle because

Bureau personnel have lectured to hundreds of CIA employees.

(36) EXCHANGE IN THE TRAINING FIELD

Although CIA has never officially made an issue

of the matter, the Agency has not been happy about our

attitude concerning exchange of information in the training

field. When the matter has been broughtup for any discussion.

by CIA, the Agency has been discouraged.

CIA informally has

expressed the feeling that an exchange along certain guide-

lines could be most useful to the U.S. intelligence and

internal security effort.

Luit

n 22-

NY 55325 DocId: 32989717 Page 132

---

## Page 133

SECRET

(37) POSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

This is an area where discussion with CIA

officials can rapidly generate criticisn of the Bureau

tancedilure to cooperate and ofter the necessary assis.

Positive intelligence, briefly, is that information

which might assist the U. S. Government in formulating

foreign policy. Much' of it is of a political nature and

a vital portion pertains to scientific developments, military

capabilities of foreign countries, and intentions of foreign

countries.

Positive intelligence

is rot only important

as it concerns the communist-bloc countries but also

the non-bloc nations.

There never has been, any 'lay, Directive, or

Executive Order which has fixed the responsibilities for

the clandestine collection of positive intelligence in

the U.s..

The Bureau does have a responsibility which

we refer to as internal security and shich falls into the

accepted area of counterintelligence. He do investigate

subversives, spys, and we develop penetrations of foreign

intelligence services.

Our work in the positive intelli-

gence field, for the most part, has been restricted to

the compliance of requests imposed upon us by the state

Department, usually when a political crisis occurs in

some country.

• CIA has maintained that there is a tremendous

unexplored

field for expanded acquirement of positive

intelligence in the U. S.

This would mean vastly increased

technical surveillance coverage, development of informants,

and collection of cryptographic material.

CIA does not

feel that we have aggressively moved on this particular

subject and that over the years, the gency has been

thwarted in its attempts to do much about the problem.

In DATE

, CIA requested the Bureau to

install technical surveillances at the offices and temporary

residences of two FOREIGN Government officials visiting the

U. S. Pursuant to instructions, CIA was told to seek the

authority of the Attorney General. The Director stated

that he did not want CIA utilizing FBI as a channel.

SEGRE

HH 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 133

---

## Page 134

SECRET,

In the same month, CIA inquired if the Bureau

: Mould reestablish technical surveillance coverage on

NAME

who CIA felt was a key figure in the

transmittal of scientific intelligence data to the

FOREIGN Intelligence Service.

We declined to reinstitute

the coverage: CIA considered the matter important because

of it's relationship to the PLACE

On October 21, 1969, we told CIA that future

requests from. CIA for technical surveillance coverage

should be transmitted by the Agency directly to the

attorney General.

CIA has never made any official. comment or

protest but it has considered the afore-mentioned.action

by the Bureau as unfriendly and uncooperative. The agency

has looked to the Bureau as the logical point of contact and

as the only organization having the resources and capabilities

of adequately determining if such coverage is even feasible.

(38) MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS

The Liaison Agent recalls fragments of other

situations or conflicts which occured over the years and

which resulted in the voicingol CIA displeasure of criticism.

The Agent cannot recall the names of the cases which is

necessary to acquire the required data. There was one

Instance early in the 1950's which involved information

received from a source of unknown reliability charging

Allen Dulles with having

been a communist and a spy while

In Europe.. We disseminated the information to several

agencies. Dulles exploded but never lodged a protest.

The Agent also has recollection of instances when

CIA alleged that its source or informant was compromised by

Bureau revelation of CIA information during the course of

Interviews conducted by us. Technically, this would be a

violation of the third agency rule and, if CIA had hard

core facts, we would be vulnerable, particularly it an

Important informant was lost. CIA never made any official

Issue or protest.

SECRET

on 28 c0

WH 55325

25 DocId: 32989717 Page 134

---

## Page 135

SECRET

in Bureau reports but CIA had requested that the information

not be passed outside of the Bureau. CIA never protested.

SEBRET

025 -

1 55325 DocIal:32989717 Page. 135 -

---

## Page 136

Q'a GEN. 11G. NO, 29

UNITED STATES COVE

Memorand

: Mr. C. D. DeLoach

ROM : W. C. Sullivan

MENT

n

DATE: March 11,

1970

¡UBJECT: RELATIONSHIPS WITH CIA

nation outside your Committee.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for assem

I's use in limited to official proceedings b

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

Reference my memorandum 3/9/70 recommending that a

letter be directed to CIA outlining the elements of intelligence

and counterintelligence work affecting the United States.

Purpose of this letter is to protect Bureau by giving CIA a

chance to make any comments it may have concerning current

use of sources and facilities affecting both Bureau and CIA.

Pirector instructed "Prepare same and let me see it."

is

We have prepared letter to CIA Director Helms in

line with the foregoing. Letter cites agreement or so-called

"ground rules" doom in hotween Bureau and ClA in January, 1966,

with regard to coordination of FBI-CIA efforts in collection

of positive intelligence in the United States. At that time

Vice Admiral Raborn was head of CIA and we are enclosinga

copy of the 1966 agreement for Mr. Helms' attention.

:

In letter we have also pointed out the Bureau's

primary responsibility concerning internal security of the

United States and for conducting counterintelligence operations

here. We have noted that while the Bureau has no statutory

responsibilities concerning collection of foreign intelligence,

we have made a concerted effort to obtain positive intelligence

of value to other U.S. agencies and policy-making officials

and have regularly furnished the product to CIA and other

interested agencies. Letter invites any observations Mr. Helms

may desire to make after reviewing this matter, including the

1966 agreement.

A copy of the 1966 "ground rules" between CIA and the

Bureau is. attached to this memorandum for the Director's.

Information.

ACTIONA

If the Director approves, the attached letter

ta. Helis

should go forward.

?.

HH 55325

DocId: 32989717 Page 136

---

## Page 137

* .

Jan

y 19, 1966

JEK Act 6

711) (B)

hiat

.."

HH 55325

Docid: 32989717 Page 137---

---

## Page 138

JEK Act 6

L\ (B)

...

• 1H 55325 • DocId: 32989717

Page 138

---

## Page 139

, SECRET

.

March 11, 19/70

: Honorable Richard Helms.

Director

Cashing in, i gence Agency

Dear Mr. Helms:

As I am sure you will agree, the need for close

coordination of the intelligence-gathering ancycounter=

Intelligence efforts of the fBi and the Central Intelligence

Agency (CIA) is self-evident. This

тона

matter. is one which

requires a continuing analysis to assure that both agencies

have established working agreements whereby we can most

effectively realize positive results with a minimum of

duplication, misplaced effort, and jurisdictional problems.

During January, 1966, representatives of this

Bureau net with officials of the CIA to consider coordina-

tion of our mutual efforts in the collection of positive

intelligence in the United States. As a result of these

conferences, a set of ground rules was drawn up and agreed

to by both agencies. A copy of this agreement was transmitted

In my letter of February 7, 1966, to then CIA Director

Vice Admiral William F. Reborn, JI. A copy of the agreement

is enclosed for your information. ' This agreement has proven

generally effective and no major problens have been

encountered since its adoption in the areas it covers.

o.. The FBI has primary responsibility with regard to

matters involving the internal security of the United States

as well as for conducting counterintelligance operations in

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Discinsure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

• HH 55325 DooId:32989717 Page 139

---

## Page 140

SECRET

this country. While this Bureau does not have any statutory

responsibilities with regard to the collection of foreign

Intelligence, I have always recognized that the potential

for the development of such intelligence in this country 1s

considerable.

The FBI has, in fact, made a concerted effort

to obtain positive intelligence of value to other U. S.

=: Intelligence agencies, including the CIA, and policy-making

officials of the Government. While these efforts have,

of course, been incidental to our main internal security

and counterintelligence responsibilities, we have on a

selective basis developed sources, both live and technical,

providing coverage at key foreign establishments in the

United States. The product of this coverage has been furnished

on a regular basis to the CIA and other interested agencies

aú ufficials uf the Guverimeni:

I know that you will share my bellef that this

matter requires a periodic reexamination to assure that the

national security interests continue,to be served in the

most effective and complete manner possible. After revieving

this matter, Including the attached 1966 agreement, I-would

walcome any observationg you may desire to make.

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

SEGMET

HH 55325 DocId:32989717 Page 140

---

## Page 141

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

-MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPAIR (A1 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Mr. Adam's

DATE: 8-27-75

FROM

: Legal Counsel

SUEJECT HOUSTUDY -%

Assoc. Dir,

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dop. AD Int. _

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp.Syst.c

Ext. Affairs -

Filos & Com. -

Gon. Inv. -

Ident. -

Inspection _

Intell. -

Laboratory

Legal Coun

Plan. & Eval. _

Viet. In

Telephone Rm. _

Diractor See'y -

In a letter to Michael E. Shaheen, Special Counsel

for Intelligence Coordination, dated 8-19-75 Staff Director A. Searle

Field of the above captioned Committee requested a briefing on the

Attorney General's Guidelines for FBI Information-Gathering and Retention

Policies. A similar request was made by Field in a letter to Shaheen

dated 8-13-75.

Mr. Field has requested that Mary Lawton, Deputy

Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel, who chairs

the Attorney General's Committee, meet with Mr. Peter L. Hughes

of the Committee's staff at an early and convenient time. Miss Lawton

has advised that she will meet with Hughes at 10:00 a.m. on Thursday,

8-28-75 and has invited Inspector Hotis to be present.

RECOMMENDATION:

That Mr. Hotis attend the briefing on the Attorney

General's Guidelines Committee with Mr. Hughes on 8-28-75.

Koti

WILL

SI, 100.

Attered

REC-16,

12 / 1 57

5

SEP 10 1975

1 - Mr. Wannall

1 - Mr. Mintz

1 - Mr. Hotis

1 - Mr. Daly

17 9 SEP 1 7 1975

JBH :dkg (6)

SLE!

DocId: 32989 Buy WadeSquires Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

50i0-i0s

---

## Page 142

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY 1982 EDITION

GSA FPAIR (AI GFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

1 - Mr. Mintz^

1 - Mr. Wannall

1 - Mr. Cregar

: Mr. J. B. Adams

DATE: 8/22/75

1 - Mr. Hotis

1 - Mr. Daly

Assoc. Dit..

'ep. AD Asti

ep. AD li

Asst. Dir.

Admin. -

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs -

Filos & Com. -

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

FROM

: Legal Counse

SUBJECT: HOUSTUDY -25

Laboratory

Pion! SPai

Spod. Inv.

Training

Telephone Rm. -

Dirgttor Sea,

By way of background we received a letter dated

7/22/75 from the House Select Committee requesting among

Senate Select Committee.

were awaiting a Departmental

decision concerning the

furnishing of this material to the

House Select Committee prior to responding to the afore-

mentioned letter.

On 8/21/75, the Deputy Special Counsel for In-

telligence Coordination in the Department, Steven Blackhurst,

advised SA Daly of this Division that we were to furnish the

material furnished the Senate Select Committee to the House

(1) They will

s investigation

of Martin Luther King or the 1964 Democratic National Con-

vention; (2) They are not to receive material furnished the

Senate Select Committee after July 22, 1975, which is the date

of the House Select Committee's letter; (3) They are not to

receive the unexcised appendices on COINTELPRO; and (4) They

are not to get access or delivery of material tending to

disclose or identify sources.

Blackhurst stated that in each instance the type of

access given to the House Select Committee should be the same

as given to the Senate Select Committee (i.e. if delivery was

made on a particular item to the Senate Select Committe,

livery should also be made to the House Select

PFC-16 62-1161

Committee). 56

RECOMMENDATION:

Di

Action. Infolmallon.

SEP 16192008

upsl

courte

PVD: 1ad o

(7)

17 9 SEP 1 7 1975

5-

55366406 DocId: 32989 Ply 4Sy Saying Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

## Page 143

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY 1982 EDITION

GSA FPAIR (41 CFR) 101--11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

1 - Mr. Mintz

1 - Mr. Walsh

1

- Mr.

Hotis

1

- Mr. Daly

DATE: 8/21/75

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dap. AD Inv.

Comp. Syst. _

Ext. Affairs

: Mr. J. B.

Adams

Filos & Com.

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

Inspection

FROM

: Mr.

A. Mintz

sUBJeCT: HOUSEUDY - 75

Intell.

files

"Laborajory

Legal Coun

Plah. & Eyal. -

Spec. Inv. -

Toraining

phone Rm.

Director Soc'y -

Attached is a transcript of the Bureau's testimony

before the House Select Committee on Intelligence dated

August 7, 1975. The attached transcript has been reviewed

by the Inspection, Special Investigative, Laboratory, Com-

puter Systems,

General Investigative, Files and Communications,

Iraining, Intelligence, Administrative, and Legal Counsel

Divisions for corrections in content and in grammar. We have

not been advised as to what corrections will be allowed with

regard to the attached transcript by the House Select Committee.

Also contained in the transcript, were numerous re-

quests for information for both the Bureau

and the Department.

We have been advised by Steven Blackhurst, Deputy Special

Counsel for Intelligence Coordination, that the Department

is corresponding with Chairman Otis Pike of the House Select

Committee requesting that that Committee resubmit the requests

by letter over the Chairman's signature.

As of 8/20/75, this

letter had not been sent to the Committee;but according to

Blackhurst, he is in the process of drafting this letter and

anticipates it will be sent to the Committee in the very near

future.

If the attached transcript is approved, it will be

hand delivered by a representative of the Office of Congres-

sional Affairs to the Office of Glen Pommerening, Assistant

Attorney General for Administration, to be incorporated with

changes they are making in the attached transcript and sub

sequently furnished to the Committee.

RECOMMENDATION:

ST. 1001

REC-16

BELASURD

2a AJG 28 1975

That the attached transcript be approved with.

ections and a copy of the attached be furnished to the

Office of Assistant. Attorney General for Administration Glen

Pommerening in the Department.

o Ofse of Managesent t

TIC

Enclosure

1075

SEP

+ l.

PVD: ladlAn, (6)

555670-108

DocId: 32989 By 45u Sapings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

11-

---

