# docid-32319689

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10372-10021

RECORD SERIES:

. HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-1470

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

OPCA

TO: DIV 6

TITLE:

DATE: 03/17/1997

' PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/03/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32319689

107

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

(12/31/1995)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence: ROUTINE

Date:

03/17/1997

To: Criminal Investigative

Attn:

Attn:

National Security

Attn:

office of the General Counsel Attn:

Mr. Divers, Rm. 4944

Mrs. Barhre, Rm. 4944

Mr. Marsh,

Rm. 4427

Mr..

Kelley, Rm. 7338

From:

office of Public and Congressional Affairs

JFK Task Force

Contact:

Carol I. Keeley, Ext. 9494

Approved By: Collingwood John

Keeley Carol Ill

Drafted By: Keeley Carol L:clk

Case ID #: 62-HQ-1029205 (Pending)

Title: JFK Task Force

Synopsis: Future electronic communications from the JFK Task

Force (JEKTF) to Criminal Intelligence Division (CID), National

Security Division (NSD), and

the Office of the General Counsel

OGC) will be to advise what information the Assassinatior

Records Review Board (the Board) released at their last meeting.

OPCA rarely will be seeking recommendations for appeals, since

the FBI withdrew the foreign counterintelligence appeals in

December 1996.

Details:

The Board began reviewing FBI documents with postponed

information in July 1995.

The JEKTF provided evidence to justify

the redaction of information based on a conservative approach to

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

(the Act). The Board members were briefed by FBI experts in the

areas covering informants, assets, technical devices, and foreigr

counterintelligence information.

their review

and advised the FBI of their decisions, it was

obvious that the standard legal arguments and claims would not

suffice.

The Board made it quite clear that they interpreted the

Act liberally, they were to disclose as much as possible, and

they would be held accountable by the research community. for

their decisions.

The Board supported the position that the postponed

information had to be justified on a singular basis for each

informant/asset as to current harm.

They opined that the

pertinence and importance to the assassination outweigh any

current harm to the individuals or the FBI/United States foreign

relations, informants or operational aspects.

Their research

documented releases of information from the same types of

categories, with no noticed harm to individuals.or operations

05

1470

, DocId: 32319689 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

To: Criminal In

General Counsel

Affairs

Re: 62-HQ-1029205, 03/17/1997

stigative, National Securiur

Office of the

From: Office of Public and Congressional

After a thorough review of the information available to the

public, the FBI reviewed its prior position and dropped the

appeals in December 1996.

Therefore, there are very few and/or

limited issues significant enough for appeal.

For now the JFKTE will continue to provide evidence for

all informants/assets whether living, deceased or no record

found.

Unless an unusual situation arises the Board's decisions

will be managed the same way,

as was decided in the Fall of 1995,

with no appeal of their decision. To be consistent with the

FBI's December 1996 decision to drop the appeals, the JFKTF will

be declassifying documents related to the same issues. That

material still requiring classification will continue to be

justified to the Board.

Therefore,

future electronic communications (EC) to

CID, NSD, and OGC will be for information purposes, unless noted

differently. The EC will continue to document the information (ie

names, singular information, source numbers, information from

foreign sources, etc.), but the photocopies of the documents will

no longer be attached.

If you have any questions about the

information or documents, please contact Carol L. Keeley at

extension 4-9494, Barbara L. Hatch at extension 4-9482, or

Carl Valentine at extension 4-9476.

- Mr. Campbell, Rm. 7338

1

- Ms. Buckleitner,

Rm. 7975

1 - Ms. Hatch, Rm. 6362/

1

- Mr. Valentine, Rm. 6362

DocId: 32319689

Page 3

---

