# docid-32299440

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10225-10220

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-102448-70, 74, 79

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DREW, WILLIAM MAYO JR.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

Document Information

DATE: 07/31/1963

PAGES:

33

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

EJERCITO CUBANO ANTI-COMMUNISTA, LEADERSHIP, US,

PR, INTV, EDM, OBA, ACA, PLAN, ATTACK SOVIET SHIPS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 RPT

v9.1

NW 45775 DocId: 32299440

Page 1-

---

## Page 2

"SES

MM 2-323

July 13, 1963, which

data regarding plans of

DUQUE to seize a key

'of

the north coast of Cuba, in

order to embarrass the United States. No information

which would substantiate the CIA report has been received

to date.

It is noteworthy, however, that as set out in

this report, DUQUE and a friend were picked up on the

beach at Palm Beach, Florida on July 17, 1963, after

their boat had capsized, and upon interview, DUQUE

claimed he had left Miami on July 13, 1963 on a fishing

trip. While DUQUE and his friend had some food supplies,

a rifle and a pistol, and a battery radio, it was not

believed they weredin any position to have

set up a

broadcasting station, as this was not a transmitting

This does not preclude the possibility, however,

that DUQUE was en route to a rendezvous with another boat

for this purpose

1n8 to fail. 3)t that circumstances caused the meet-

This report has been classified SECRET since it

contains information from a CIA release so classified. 5)

INFORMANTS

Identity

Ta I-I- (CIA, Miami (6240)

MM T-2 -

901 S.W. 3rd Avenue, Miami

(by request)

Location

2-323-146

2-323-142, 14/,

149 and 156

OTHER 4

• B *

COVER PAGE

BEEL ASSISTO

( 890-16949-20

SOGBAR GOL

a 1/26/85 LT8.

5190-291326

SECKET

53290.6

NW 45775 DocId: 32299440 Pagé 2

---

## Page 3

SECRETI

MM 2-323

supporters of his organization already engaged in active

opposition to the CASTRO regime inside Cuba.

DUQUE also stated he has been attempting to

raise money for this purpose both in the United States

and Puerto Rico and that he expected to continue to do

so. He indicated that his success in this connection has

been relatively limited and that financial resources are

his principal problem.

on June 23, 1963, Dr. ORLAND

BOSCH, General

Coordinator of DUQUE's group.

• 2019-W. Flagler

Terrace

Miami, Fa

advised that DUQUE' and his group are interested in

obtaining arms for their people in Cuba but to the best

of his knowledge, have no plans to make raids against

Cuba or against shipping off the coast of Cuba in the

immediate future. BOSCH claimed DUQUE has neither the

money nor equipment necessary for such operations, although

he is attempting to raise funds for the purchase of arms

for the Cuban underground.

BOSCH mentioned that just three or four days

previously, DUQUE had been visited by representatives of

the Immigration and Naturalization Service

and presented

with a "Notice of Prevention of Departure," which, ac-

cording to BOSCH, limited DUQUE to travel within the area

of Dade County, BOSCH said that in view of this he did

not believe DUQUE was preparing to make an attack against

Cuba.

It is noted that on June 19, 1963, MM I-2, a

Cuban exile who was formerly a member of the Cuban Rebel

Army, who is in contact with membersof anti-CASTRO organ dUl

SECRET

NW 45775 Docid: 32299440 Pagé 3

---

