# docid-32290232

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10205-10008

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-251

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/27/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ADVICE, ASSOC, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45679 DocId: 32290232

Page 1

262

---

## Page 2

1af (Rev, 8-2-51)

00 C

DECODED COPY

*x Radio

• Teletype

fohr

Callahan

Conrad

De Loa

• Evans

Malone

Hosen.

Sullivan

Tavel.

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

URGENT

16-27-61

TO OIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO 272114

ANTIRACKETEERING

AKA, 'AR. DAILY SUMMARY. SERGEANT FRANK NASH,

INTELLIGENCE UNIT, CHICAGO POLICE DEPARTMENT, ADVISED THAT

INFORMATION HAS RECENTLY COME TO HIS ATTENTION THAT THE SUBJECT

HAS TAKEN OVER CONTROL OF THE GAMBLING AND OTHER HOODLUM INTERESTS

IN THE 45TH WARD OF CHICAGO. THIS WARD COVERS THE TOWN HALL AND

SHEFFIELD AVENUE POLICE DISTRICTS AND WAS FORMERLY INDEPENDENTLY

CONTROLLED BY ALDERMAN CHARLES WEBER, WHO RECENTLY DIED OF MONOXIDE

POISONING. SERGEANT NASH STATED THAT ALEX WILL BE ASSISTED IN

¡THE MANAGEMENT OF THIS WARD BY MARSHALL CAIFANO AND FELIX "MILWAUKEE

¡PHIL" ALDERISIO. BOTH THESE HOODLUMS ARE CURRENTLY UNDER ACTIVE

INVESTIGATION BY THE CHICAGO OFFICE.

SERGEANT NASH OFFERED NO

I8 BASIS FOR THE ABOVE INFORMATION AND ITS RELIABILITY IS UNKNOWN.

PCI|

ADVISED THAT A PLATINUM BLONDE WITH A LONG

PONY TAIL AND WHOM HE DESCRIBED AS YOUNG AND ATTRACTIVE CONTINUES

TO VISIT THE SUBJECT'S APARTMENT ON A FAIRLY REGULAR BASIS.

INFORMANT HAS BEEN UNABLE TO DETERMINE THE LENGTH OF HER VISITS

WITH THE SUBJECT OR THE PURPOSE OF THE VISITS.

HE IS ATTEMPTING

TO DETERMINE HER IDENTITY OR THE MODE OF TRANSPORTATION SHE

UTILIZES IN REACHING THE SUBJECT'S APARTMENT BUILDING. THE

CHICAGO OFFICE WILL INTENSIFY EFFORTS TO IDENTIFY THIS INDIVIDUAL

IN ORDER THAT SHE CAN BE INTERVIEWED REGARDING HER ASSOCIATION

WITH THE SUBJECT. CG 6343-0* ADVISED THAT THE SUBJECT HAD A

LENGTHY DISCUSSION WITH CHICAGO AND MIAMI HOODLUM DAVE YARIS

POTENTIAL GRIMINAL INFORMANT

REC- 68

92-3182-257

ITs JUL

1977

tina mines

OTHER

4

60JUL 12 1901

9-

r-be_suitably

NW 45679 DocId: 32290232 Page 2

---

