# docid-32125853

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144

USC

2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54046

Date: 08-23-2017

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10027-10190

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 62-109060-3745

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

GEMBERLING, ROBERT P.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 08/28/1964

PAGES: 154

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

JFK, SUSPECT, UNKNOWN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

12/18/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/16/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

REPORT, TABLE OF CONTENTS i-ii, INDEX ON PAGES 132-142

NW 54046 DocId:32125853 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD: 888 (127, 81-591

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVL-TIGATIONREG

NEPONTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALIAS

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNSDY,

NOVEMBER 22, 1963, DALIAS,

TEXAS

DATE

8/28/64

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/29/63 - 8/26/64

REFOrT MADE BY

SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYMED BY

jtf

MISCBLLANBOUS - INFORMATION

COKCERNING

REEBRENCES

4-300 9803 BA

Roports of SA ROBERI P. GIMBERLING, 12/18/63, 3/30/64,

5/15/64, 6/19/64, 7/16/64, and 8/7/64, at Dallas.

-P-

54046

susand Endart

ENCLOSURES: TO THE BUREAU, NEW ORIBANS AND SAN ANTONIO

Enclosed herewith and attached to appropriate copies of this

report for the Bureau are three photographs of Exhibit D-233, and ten

copies of a page containing the contents of an obscene postcard

postmarked March 18, 1964, Newton Falls, Ohio, received by Dallas

County District Attorney HENRY MADE on March 19, 1964.

Two coplas of Exhibit D-233 and two copies of the paga

containing the contents of the obscene postcard are listed as enclosures

in for the Presidant's Commission in the body of this report with those

APFROPATAME AGENCIES.

APPROVED AND INTE

TRICESS

A SPECIAL

AGENT

IN CHARGE

• DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE: 1:

- Burpau I

2409060) Tenc.

13)

(Rn 62109060-3745

REC

New OrIE

(89-69) (Bnc.

1)

(Into)

1

4

san Antonio (8987)

(Bnc.

• 1)

(Into)

9-16

ST-10€

17 ATTE 21

Dallas (89-43)

XERORY

in let 9/15.

$x.105

SEF 18 084

inde said filed

9/14/661

+-645 6697-0165

6-5ul

NOTATIONS *

valid

ARLICY

REQUEST RICO

DATE FWD..

9/1/64

HOW FAD.

imnier

66 SEP 23 1964

ON RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

OPIES PEOTROTEI

Ther

•ta.

1Z9973

Bilty Copies

Toes inductioned

2R12/17/14

DocId: 32125853

Page

2

---

## Page 3

?

-2-

"It has cost me a great deal of effort not to

write this letter to you before.

As I mentioned

previously, your brother, John I. Kennedy, had asked

me to wait

until now.

"I want to let you know confidentially that i

had foreseen the assassination of your brother.

I

also know quite accurately the precise circumstances

of the Dallas assassination.

"Therefore, I shall be looking forward to hearing

from you in the near future.

"Of course, the precise details must be of very

great interest

to you.

"With kind regards, I remain

"Sincerely yours,

(signed) "Alfred Hiller"

• The Bundeskriminalant

(BRA - West Gennan Federal

Criminal folice,, Wiesbaden, Germany, arranged for an inquiry

regarding ALFRED

HILLER and an inquiry regarding the matter

outlined in his letter.

The BRA furnished the results of

this inquiry in the form of a report dated June 25, 1964, at

Stuttgart,

Germany,

prepared by the Criminal Police Office

of the State Police Directorate for North Wuerttemberg, which

was approved and forwarded by Chief Criminal Commissioner

EGATEMA IER -

The report stated that inquiries had been made at

the towns of Boeblingen,

Rottenburg an Neckar and

was no record with the police regarding HILLER in Altdorf or

Tuebingen. He was known to the police in Boeblingen and

Rottenburg.

While employed in Boeblingen HILLER had vritten

incoherent letters

to various citizens in the Village of Altdorf.

19

54046

DocId: 32125853

Page 3

---

## Page 4

-3-

The records of the biVision of state Police at

Rottenburg revealed that on April 8, 1964, at about 11:50 AM,

HILLER had partially undressed himself on

the Neckar River

bridge in Rottenburg; had thrown pieces of his clothing in

the river and had also thrown a number of phonograph records

in the river and distributed others to children.

The records

stated that HILLER had religious hallucinations and that he

was receiving medical treatment in Tuebingen from Dr. OSTERMANN

who immediately committed him to the Tuebingen University

Hospital following the occurrences

The report states that HILLER was questioned on

June 23, 1964, at his home in Altdorf, Germany, and the

following information regarding his background and the

circurstances of his writing the letter to Attorney General

ROBERT KENNEDY was obtainede

A Red XHILLER'$ full name is ALFRED HEINRICH/HILLER.

He was born April 13. 1942,

at Altdori, County of Boeblingen

in the State of Baden-Wuerttemberg, Germany.

His current address

is #14 Buehl Strasse in Altdorf GeHe

thats an electric installer

by occupation and is single,

Its parents are CHRISTIAN and

ANNA HILLER who are farmers having the same address as HILLER.

In the portion of the report containing descriptive data which

reads "if unemployed, since when" it is stated "ill since

April 7, 1964.

In the portion of the same form which deals

with current status of health it is stated "since 1963 under

doctor's care for nerve conditiong"

In discussing his past with the interviewing officer,

FILLER furnished the following informatione

HILLER has been under medical treatment since the age

of 12 and suffers from an overly sensitive nervous system,

He

had suicidal thoughts as early as the age of 13 and claims

that since the age of 4 has been dreaming in series of things

which later occur and says he thus dreamed in advance about!"

the death of Fresident KENNEDY about a year and a half ago.

He attended primary school in Altdorf from 1948-1954 and a

higher

secondary school in Boeblingen fron 1954-1957.

He said

that he was the best student in his class but bogan to neglect

his work and could no longer be promoted in 1957. He, therefore,

left school and became an apprentice electrician. He says

20

HH 54046

DocId: 32125853

Page 4

---

## Page 5

-6-

"As Kennedy told me in the last conversation,

he himself had determined the people who were to

murder him,

He also told me that the people were

envious among themselves and that each fought to be

able to commit the murder.

"It was most likely for this reason that it later

came to the murder of the murderer, whose action was

begrudged him.

"I had originally predicted, and had also made

it a condition in conversations

with the President,

that I would not make known the truth about the murder

to the public until half a year after the deed. I also

suggested the founding of a memorial library.

"However, Kennedy did not agree that the announcement

of the truth about the murder should wait so long; rather,

he demanded that his family be told about it in time.

Therefore, some 14 days after the deed, I informed Robert

Kennedy, who then informed the widow of the President.

Jacqueline Kennedy then sent me a telegram which stated

that she thanked me very much and was of the opinion that

what I had reported was the best solution of the case.

Unfortunately I no longer have the telegram."

The document setting forth the information obtained

from HILLER on June 23, 1964, was signed by him and witnessed

by Criminal Police Commissioners SCHABER and VEHRINGER.

report

continues with a portion signed by Commissioner SCHABER

stating that Dr. OSTERMANN could not be reached for questioning

but that DI. Von KALCKREUTH, who had charge of HILLER in the

sanitarium from April 8 to June 5, 1964, had stated that HILLER

suffered from schizophrenia and that his visions and series

dreams are symptoms of that illness.

The statement by SCHABER.

concludes with the following comments

"As the inquiry shows, we are concerned in the

case of Hiller with a mentally ill person.

suifers from Schizophrenia,

23

centri

NW 54046 DocId: 32125853

Page 5

---

## Page 6

-7-

"His accounts and written reports about his

meeting with the Chief of the French Secret Police,

and his knowledge about the grounds for the murder

of President Kennedy, are symptoms of this illness.

"Hiller has released the doctors who treated him,

in a written statement, from their duty to keep

his communications secret.

"The examination of Hiller was conducted so

throughly in order to demonstrate what his

mental state actually is.

24

HH 54046

DocId: 32125853

Page 6

---

