# docid-32123889

## Page 1

eleased 'under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

D2520411-14-2017,

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to. Search

Exit JFK

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10023-10226

RECORDS SERIES : HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-2751

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : DIRECTOR, FBI

TO

: LEG, MX

TITLE

: [No Titlel

DATE

: 03/25/1964

PAGES:

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : LHO, ASSOC

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 4

• CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 06/17/1996

OPENING CRITERIA

:INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Exit. JFK

1/1

---

## Page 2

Rele

Hote

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of*1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-11-2017

Sullivan

Bransgan

Lenthan

• Goble

17-14-93

803 ROD/KSR

3/19

BECLASSIFIED BY 5668 520/1529 gre

Class.

3042 PWFAHR

TK

81 039-1-95

(JFK)

Date o/Reviers

OADR

SSOR ADDIS

3-08-93

308 e

1802)

THE BOCCA!

EX-114

DONOREG

53

10S.

classifloaty

2040

Exempt from GDS

category_II

ate of DeclassificatIon Ladel Inite I

Classified

Declassity,

CONFIDER

MAL

Lovico Wise

Jottee aaz

1-10.06, conessing

Jostcrtand

mano Dotu dutod

Caroaches by

Sidentata Cattest

Done abort

VIES

OFF

UTING

coro 08 nolot 00d

copy 08 30

290

Antorantion of boltase

Lacienou don

Hey Tors ano 1 copios of rotos 2zd 9

Caps6c o$ 30 2013:

Jean moala frmaiah a tistol coneriptavo

pharaetarisation of

Tony Contao Cenacto the popcano to bo

porson nonstonad to

830

Sema

one norer

od to mechanterty

go 301000

DA

DZON OSETAIMED

OLASGIFIED AXCEPT

OTARROTST

DHIRE SHOWED

MAILED

MAR 2 A'E

missio de the cordlect ronstal

tied, to suo do not boing dussennatod de this siro neconca

of amenaired crostsee faised ty 20g

As you potts ous on the

mast nos of take, Do Is mod los ash to with towershes

Alinson cho has and zinco If 0d,

So cancetod

that

solsed

monicas raised by fe sons sill

intersanta

Bond of taus

motton ano

cos surishing

o8 100500g

do sou have contention

nos cue de parageros a page

cubjoot*o Mostern triso

to thoro

actor interactor dav gos rocoiver,

Londeo tas

scotod da' obtatedng tutoran

Pontess C

rustest e

fadernaston

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad.

DeLoach

Evans _

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan .

Tavel_

Trotter

Hol mes

sandy

TELETYPE UNIT C

DocId: 32123889

Page

2

hove be

6100g

how much

4105.

• * New York (105-38431) (el

- Foreign Liaison Unit (Route thru for

1 - 100-430929 (Camacho)

NOTE: LAS

PAGE

---

## Page 3

Hote).

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

Lotter

to Teed,

Ro:

IXE RASTER GETTE

18 1s CHI

CONFIDENTIAL.

as so tena

portoday

the Corset

too Epose sa Bis petavstsoo

Sablore Lots

Dor Satoons in Seventees

to inforntios has toon

Be Boy Outone at tong trac

t: 20 pocedate that among

Lora sposa 62 draid's actartetor Balovo so táat to Burssa,

that thus ase roast ind, bozore ho cont de tealco.

Ente point y

I proprach So pore a, do so mena tho pocodion arices

no to poster is tea lisa, tone minto or the homiena ta

Lonela cho boltond tone cooieut onld ant have entererson

At is poostalo

me dira bara to be antoniosou orontantay

Endonising caz

ce Anderation sho Sonishce as bet out to so 1470, 1105 tig

moron raether to noe math cabject suito ho von so Mice.

Vous enemans Investigatos at Ians'o Insaladoo

os nattoce should dua at anconass the cove pestions aut

wows are noce chostd mutin there assaura.

Xou could met

Coutams to cures soon

It 2a noted

toro 20 Clansdelod "ocrat.*

Faon

to tho Cordroses sucatione disy

Do actoe obes solo atassastention and,. theresara, you peoute

in for mit comunication to the Parom notating to Lero,

fully dotust your persons sew this einseditcation.

To Brost

no not pissession the tr

sootaose on the suasel reason late

th tarly you noncens for it.

CAPIDATI

DocId: 32123889

Page 3

---

