# docid-32286805

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10196-10081

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-1036

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

06/10/1963

PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS:

SGI, TRA, GAMBLING, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC INVEST NOTE

v9.1

A NW 45792 DocId: 32286805 Page 1

64

---

## Page 2

SPECIAL, INVESFIGATIVE DIVISION

June 11, 1963

Potential informant

husband of Dorothy Moguire of the

singing sister team, is concerned over

the affair between Phyllis McGuire and

Chicago underworld leader Sam Giancana.

_is cooperative and has been

furnishing information as to Giancana's

movements

informant l

and travels Potential

is travel

arranger for the McGuire sisters and

although indicating surface cooperation

with the Bureau; he reportedly advised

Giancana of FBI contact with him.

Future contacts with l

Jwill be

handled with caution in view of this.

Legat Paris being alerted to reported

plans of Giancana to visit that city

and it is being requested to establish

coverage in the event Giancana makes

this trip. No record located in

National Stolen Property File for 27

carat uncut stone Gianonna allegedly

offered to sell

WIVERS

EtIO

OTHER 4

NW 45792 DocId: 32286805 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FBI

Date:

6/10/63

Transmit the following in

Via

TO :

FROM:

AIRTEL

SUBJECT:

Belmo

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Conrad.

Mr. DeJnie a

Mr. Evan!

Mr.

Gale..

r. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

RED /38

SAC, NEW YORK (92-793)

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA aka

AR ANTIRACKETEERING

(00: CHICAGO)

wde.mnctno

4-1

On 6/10/63, PCI|

9°

OTHER 4

NYO and was interviewed by

appeared at the

SAS PA

and CHARLES G. DONNELLY. (U)

ATRICK J. COLLINS, Jr.,

ILL:

6/6/63.

He sajd that he returned to NY on Thursday,

was also The went he kerome from wichita,

cooperation with the FBI.

decided to cooperate fully with the FBI.

he-weekend and they discussed kansas.

N.Y

the agents in NYC and,

He will contact

MARSHALL E. RUTLAND.

When in Chicago, will contact SA

ALE INFORMATIGN CONTAINED

HEREIN

Bureau (92-3171)

Boston (Info)

Chicago (92-349)

- Honolulu (Info)

- Miami (92-170) (Info)

- Newark (Info)

- Kansas City (92-138) (Info)

- New York

- New

York

137-9572)

- New

York

(92-793)

92-37-1036

• JUN 11 1963

CGD: nbc

(14)

!.?

Approved:

Special

agent in Charge

Sent

M

Per

C. c.

Wick

5 4 JUN 25 1963

3,4

NW 45792 DocId: 32286805 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-793

advised that he knows the FBI contacted

VICTOR LA CROIX,

because, following this contact,

COLLINS went tor the McGuire sisters and told them of the

contact.

COLLINS pointed out to PHYLLIS MC GUIRE that

she should stop seeing GIANCANA and get away from him

completely. COLLINS also said that GIANCANA is a murderer

and dealer

in narcotics and tried to point out to the sisters

that the FBI was their "friend" and GIANCANA their "enemy"

Tsaid that CHRISTINE and DOROTHY indicated to him

they now believe the FBI is their "friend" but PHYLLIS has

given no Indication how she feels about this. (U)

It is pointed out that when COLLINS

was inter-

viewed he was advised of the confidential nature of this

relationship with the FBI and he stated he would keep the

contact confidential. (U)

advised that GIANCANA is in NYC at

the present time and believes he came to NYC Am Friday,

6/7/63, From Chicago. (V)

GIANCANA,.

FRANK/SINATRA and AVA GARDER actress went

on Saturday night, 6/3/63, PAYTLE RY NaT

to

SINATRA's parentE home In New Jersey. Le

On Sunday, 6/9/63, the Me Gufre sisters appeared

on the Ed Sullivan TV Show.

Later, the Mc Guire sisters,

WILLIAMSON, TONY RIPOSA (accompanyist), VIC COLLINS and

GIANCANA went to Trader Vic's Restaurant. Following this

the party went to Jilly's

Restaurant, finishing up the

night about 4:00 a.m. U

GIANCANA, 1s

staying at PHYLLIS' apartment,

525 Park Avenue.

While at Jilly's, one BOB GENNAY (ph) joined the

party and PCI ascertained that GENNAY 1s an attorney ano

is very close to SINATRA. He is supposed to have many

contacts in US Customs Bureau and supposedly when AVA

GARDNER came from Spain recently he cleared her luggage

without any trouble.

(u)

2

OTHER 4

NW 45792 DocId: 32286805 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NY 92-793

OTHER 4

number in NY 1s Yukon 8-6940. (V)

advised that SINATRA's telephone

He stated the Mc Guire sisters are leaving NYC

on Wednesday, 6/12/63, for Framingham, Mass., and

nave not made arrangements for their stay there. (U vet

GIANCANA indicated he will leave NYC on Tuesday,

6/11/63, but PHYLLIS does not want him to leave until 6/12/63.

He Indicated he is going to Hawali sometime at the end of

this week and that he is then going in to Paris, France.

GIANCANA made inquiries to determine if he could travel from

Hawall to Paris without returning through the Us, but

has pretty well decided to return through the US.

said he does not know the purpose of this trip but if he had

RUBIROSA lives In Paris and GIANCANA has, in the past,

does not believe GIANCANA is going to

Framingham,

but he pointed out that GIANCANA travels a lot

and possibly will stop there to see PHYLLIS. (U)

estimated that GIANCANA has given

PHYLLIS over & million dollars worth of jewelry since going

with her.

GIANCANA on Saturday asked PCI If PCI desired

to buy a 27 carat uncut stone for $100,000. GIANCANA said

and doilars.

It was worth 2 to 3 hundred thousand dollars. GIANCANA

Indicated he could get such a stone.

U)

-

NW 45792 DocId: 32286805 Page 5

---

## Page 6

r.

NY 92-793

PHYLLIS has received beautiful jewelry from

GIANCANA

and has had imitations made of all the jewelry.

]does not know who supplies GIANCANA with the

Jewelry or who makes the imitations but believes 1t may be

(FNU) KOSLOW, who has a Jewelry store in the Fountainbleu

Hotel, Miami Beach, and also a store at 724 5th Ave., NYC.

(The Manhattan telephone Directory lists NAT KOSLOW,

Jeweler, 724 Fifth Ave., NYC, PL 7-2490•) GIANCANA knOws

KOBLOW and both PHYLLIS and

GIANCANA have mentioned

his name In the past. (Ul)

also advised that a (FNU) SIBILANO

(ph) has a furniture store in Chicago.

SIBILANO (ph) 1s

very friendly with all the hoodlums in Chicago and all the

big hoodlums buy their furniture and gifts from him.

Jhas, in the past, observed TONY ACCARDI wIth

SIBILANO In Las Vegas. SIBILANO was also with GIANCANA in

Palm Springs, Calif., In the past: (U

advised that another close associate

Of GIANCANA 1S JOE (INU), an Italian from Chicago. PCI

has never seen this JOE, but he was with GIANCANA in Hot

JOE's wife

1s in an insane asylum. While in Hot Springs, PHYLLIS

attempted to have CHRISTINE go out with JOE, but CHRISTINE

declined. (U)

In the afternoon of 6/10/53, PCI

telephonically contacted the NY and left the

message that SAM GIANCANA 1$ In NYC. (U)

The Bureau 1s requested to check the National.

Stolen Property File for any report of a stolen 27 carat

uncut stone which would be worth between 2 hundred to 3

hundred thousand dollars. (U)

-

4

-

NW 45792 DocId: 32286805 Page 6

OTHER 4

---

