# docid-32286491

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10267

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-12-329

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: - 05/02/1962

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:

CIP, GAMBLER, BUSS, SUR, INSTR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286491

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 111 Use 2107

Hotel.

DA TEOITIORAL FOlMiNo2 01 7

5010-104-01

" * UNITED STATES C' *ERNMENT _..

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

5/2/62

SUBJECT:

SAC, DALLAS (94-55A) (P)

7560

Ne.

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE/ PROGRAM

DALLAS DIVISION

On 4/10/62, LT. JACK REVILL, Intelligence Section,

Dallas PD furnished the following information on a confidential

basis. LT. REVILL has always been most cooperative with the

Bureau and he was furnished the following information with

the understanding that his source, whom he identified, not

be contacted by Bureau personnel.

LT. REVILL has been developing as a sourde?

information former St. Louis hoodlum and gambler NATHAN/PLATT

who is presently residing in the Dallas area.

PLATT advised

REVILL that hoodlum or syndicate money in the United States is

being invested in large amounts in businesses connected with

the manufacture of aluminum siding. PLATT identified DON

De PALAMA,..a resident of Tampa, Fla. and who is PLATT'S

as. being

one of the persons so investing this hoodlum money.

He stated DePALAMA owns the Crown Aluminum-Co. in Tampa,

Fla. and the Gulf Coast or Gulf States Aluminum Co. in Dallas

which is a subsidiary of Crown Aluminum.

DePALAMA as a "big-time gambler" who has "syndicate" connections.

PLATT also stated tiat he had learned through DePALAMA that the

Division of Alcoa Co., manufacturer of aluminum siding, is

PLATT also stated that DePALAMA had recently

instructed PLATT to stay out of the University Club in

Dallas (which is owned and operated by GEORGE W. OWENS)

as this club was under surveillance by a law enforcement

agency because of the "funny money" being pushed there.

PLATT did not elaborate further on "funny money" and its

significance is unknown to the Dallas Office or to LT. REVILL

It is suspected that he is possibly referring to counterfeit

money. The information concerning the University Club was

nade united and west netter: Secret service,

Dallas on 4/12/62 and was

- Bureau

- Tampa

2

- Miami

Hen No NBE 8412-9-12329

1

- Dallas

1 - Dallas

(55-0)

(94-55A)

" ZUEUL OLIOZLICE

RMB/11

• MAY 8 1952.

(8)

305

AT 1: 1907

'DocId: 32286491 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USe 2107

Note): & DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 94- 55A

On 4/23/62, LT. REVILL was recontacted concerning

the above matter and

advised that he had been unable to

obtain any further details concerning this from his source,

PLATT. He stated should he obtain further information he would

immediately advise the Dallas office.

For the information of Tampa and Miami, by airtel

4/20/62 the Bureau advised that if the above information is

true it is extremely significant to the Criminal Intelligence

Program and should be forwarded the Tampa Division for their

information and possible appropriate investigation.

The

Bureau cited Bureau letter to New York 3/17/60 captioned

CRIMINAL ELEMENT IN THE BUSINESS FIELD - INFORMATION CONCERNING

and stated that if instructions contained in this Bureau letter

are applicable to subsequent information developed concerning

the above allegations, investigation of possible hoodlum influence,

control or infiltration into the aluminum siding

industry

should be handled accordingly.

2

.

DocId: 32286491

Page

3

---

