# docid-32356688

## Page 1

Date: 01/14/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10102-10140

RECORD SERIES :

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1993

44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53294 Date:

06-13-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

: LIST OF REQUESTS FROM THE FBI FOR ASSISTANCE AND

INFORMATION FROM THE CIA

01/01/1900

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS : INVESTIGATION

FBI REQUEST

CIA-FBI

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/20/93

COMMENTS

• JFK34

: F13 :

1993.07.20.08:25:21:210530

[R]

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10102-10140

HH 53294

DocId: 32356688

Page 1

---

## Page 2

METH

LIST (INCOMPLETE) OF REOUESTS FROM THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF

INVESTIGATION FOR ASSISTANCE AND INFORMATION FROM THE CIA

26 November 1963

Subject: Richard Thomas GIBSON

(Paraphrase)

During the afternoon of

26 November, INANITION/17 passed to the

FBI representative in Bern a report

(quoted

in full in the cable).

The

FBI

representative immediately notified

ELMARD

(P)

and after discussing the con-

tent of the report it was agreed that

ELMARD would contact Swiss authorities

soonest.

ELMARD emphasized the utmost

importance the United States Government

attached to follow-up of this matter.

ELMARD received prompt answers to initial

questions and arranged to meet with

Swiss security officials in company with

the FBI representative in Bern.

[BERN 2492 (IN 68312), 26 November 1963)

28 November 1963

Subject:

Rumored $5,000 bank deposit made

by OSWALD upon his return from Mexico on

3 October 1963.

The FBI has just levied on us an official

request for full information on source

and origin of rumor about five thousand

[DIR 85654, 28 November 1963]

SEGRET

#12810

HH. 53294

DocId: 32356688

Page 2

---

## Page 3

28- November 1963

Subject:

Interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO:

The FBI liaison officer (S. PAPICH) offi-

cially advises that the FBI requests CIA

turn ALVARADO over to Mexican authorities

and that CIA request the Mexican

authori

ties to interrogate ALVARADO In detail:

?.:|

s7d0sz356

FBI reports that it understands that the

Mexican authorities have a capability of

polygraphing and requests that CIA Te:

quest: Mexican authorities

that he be poly

graphed.

The FbI expressed a desire to have the re

sults of the interrogation as soon as possi

blo and that the Logal Attache bo kept

adrised

of developments

DIR: 8566361

128 November 1963]3

963

ecte

•Ricardo SANTOS

PAPICH referred me to DIR 85665, 28 November

1o leg sferred to the fact that there is a

report thatathe Third Secretary. of the Cuban

Embassy in The Hague, Ricardo SANTOS, has a pro

CASTRO brother in the United States He-stated:

that a would appreciate our checking our files

or taking such other steps as may be indicated

torpronice the Buroau with the identity of the

brother said to be in the U.S.

Memorandum From CT/SIG to chief,

WH/3,

29

•November 1963,1

December 1963-

Subjects

Chinese Communist and CASTRO Plot.

FAt 0900 on 9 Decenber: 1965 Mr. PAPICH of the

FBI called and advised that the Bureau had a

Communtcation from their Miami field office

setting forth information which had been re-

ceven a memorandum from our office in

Miami Concerning a report which had been re-

ceived fron a western diplomat alloging that

the assassination

result of a plot prepared and executed jointly

by the Chinese conmunists and CASTRO through

internediaries

MT PAPICH stated that the Bureau would like

•to evaulate.

this information if

possible

identifying

this diplomat got this information since it

would help the Bureau to evaluate this informa-

He said that the Bureau would find the

53294 DocId:32356688 Page 3

---

## Page 4

identity of the source and possible access

to the source

helpful

Wif in this country, most

memorandum for the Record, dated 9 December

1963; Subject

Lee Harvey

18-December 1963

& Subjects Nomenclature of Weapon possibly

drowned by Lee Harvey OSWALD.

-On 18 December 1963 a representative of your

Bureau requested clartfying information about

certain Soviet nomenclature believed to refer

to ream once possessed in the Soviet Unio

We were asked to

determine what kind

oiwe apon

it be

242

[CSCI:

179, 225k to the

Latederg December

1963- Subj

Nomenclature of Weapon possibly

Maryey OSWALD,1.224

цат

71964

subtect racetrusy

My CE

in CarLOs VILLA, Miant, Flor Lad turntshed to

the FBLion. December 2Ly

1963, a letter which

had been forwarded to a friend of his naned.

Jose Antonio Juan, Mr. Juan had received the

from his son living in Cuba.

letter the statement was made,

known here that RUBINSTEIN. was here a little

Tess thana year ago visiting a Mr. PRANSKTRA

owner offa shop dealing in tourist articles.

Tocated on Prade Street between Animas and

Trocadero, opposite the Sevilla Biltnore.

Its requested that, through available sources

O1. Your Agency, you develop any information

possible relating to the above quoted statement

in an effort. to resolve the allegation that

Jack LakUBY has possibly visited Cuba since

1959 and has connections there.

[FBI Memorandum to the DDP.,

964

, dated i January

Subject.

Jack b RUBY

9. January 1964

*Subject:

Lee Harvey OSWALD

Attached is a copy of

a memorandum from the

Federal Bureau of Investigation on Lee Harvey

OSWALD dated 31 December 1963

and an enclosure

to the memorandum containing names and addresses

found in OSWALD's address book. and other papers

at the time of his arrest in Dallas, Texas.

It"

will be noted that the Bureau has asked us

tO

Nw. 53294_-DocId:32356688

Page: 4

---

## Page 5

determine whether any of the listed names,

addresses

or telephone numbers have in the

past been connected with the Soviet intelli

gence services

Memorandum for Chief. OS/SRS;

dated 9 January

1963; Subject:

Lee Harvey OSWALD.J

4 January-1964

Our Chief of Station in Mexico dispatched cable MEXI

7N 0827315

advising of a request on the part of the Legal:

Attache, for the development of information concerning one Daniel

SOLISE knowledge-of, ROJAS, whose name appears to be YIario ROJAS

laneva 31 year Old Mexican citizen residing in Guadalajara

and formation concerning the names. of Cubans. appearing in an

notebook sare to be in, che possession of SOLIS and an

•Otficial

Once American Government, sald to have been

US

Menor andu

fa

Harvey OSWALD

ALD

named Albert LNU:

15.

January 10642

7. February: 1964

SubjectS Fladio ROJAS Villanueva.

The regal Attache In Mexico City would prefer that the

COS tell LuIS ECHEVARRIA, acting minister of sobernacio, name

subject and that with ROJAS" agreement plan to give him a polygraph

and promise ECHEVARRIA a brief statement of

the resukts

of.the test

The Legal Attache in Mexico City would prefer have the

polygraph given in Mexico City; he could, it CIA strongly prefers?

get their headquarters! and subject's agreement to go to Texas

-32212575

MEXIC 15081 february 19641

12 February 1964

Legal Attache (in Mexico City) requests the following

additional questions be put to Daniel sorts:

Verify if SoLis has received two letters

recently from Eladio ROJAS

Villanueva aka Eladio

VILLANUEVA regarding notebook.

¿2a.

00GD5

HH

53294

DocId:32356688 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Ask SOLIS to forward notebook if found to:

Edwin O JOHNSON: Consulado Americano, Guaga

Lajara Jalisco.

Letters in possession of VILLANUEVA

indi

hei

was in Cozumel with Daniel SOLIS-For

at leastechree months in 1963. Can souls te

call dates?

CASK SOLIS if VILLANUEVA was in contact with

Cubans or Americans while in Cozumel. Ask him

how VILLANUEVA occupied his time.

MEXI-8194(IN 18129) 12. February, 1964.1

February: 19645

RUBY

wouts be appreciated you couldeprompt ty

advise of

any in

no mation avas table to you

end co verify this travel by RUBY i

Memorandun to Mr

WinstoniM SCOTT, dated 25 February 1964

ron Clari an ANDERSON Legal Aerache (exico city, subject

Jack! Da RUBYa

3. Aprils1964

Subject Lee Harvey OSWALD'S Access to Classified=

Intormation about the U-2.

Reference is made to your letter, dated 13

APRil 1904. Captioned Lee Harvey OSWALDe

In-

nal Security Russiane Cuban ands to the

trachment which contained statements:

made

rette

requested certain information regarding.

ject's Marine assignment at

the Naval

Ai

04067

Station,

Atsugi, Japany 1957 and 1958:

[Memarandum

" for

Director

Federal Bureau

of Investigation,

dated 13 May 1964,

From CIA.!

- MR 52294 Doold: 323566883 Page 6.

---

## Page 7

10 June 1964

SEGRET

Subject Lee Harvey OSWALD:

3422229

Wife is betteved this allegation that

OSWALD waS in Tangier, Morocco, should

be investigated and you are requested to

NA22A

conduct the necessary inquiries me pos

sible to resolve the allegation Inasmuch

MANES

27342

as it appears that the President's Commi-

Ssion contemplates the issuance of its re

port. in the near-future,

Lit is believed

this matter Should be handled expeditiously u

Memorandum to Director,

central Intelligence Agency Attention

Deputy Director

PLans, dated 10 June 1964 From Director, FBT.

1964

wreat the foregoing factors, it would

e apprecrated If you would review material

22610 to you concorn me the activity of

Mansort to identify the

WHO Mi

broadcast referred to by OSWAbD

aforementioned documents e

"We would also appreciate advice as to the

telephone number in 1959 and the current

telephone number of Radio Moscow and we would

appreciate advise as to whether or not tele

Phone

number 36588 was listed

in

the 1959

MOSCOW

Telephone Directory

"It would appear to us that if OSWALD partici-

Pated

in a radio program for Radio Moscow, this

fact would have been known to the KGB and a re-

ference tö

such participation

would likely have

SECRET

WW 53294-_DocId-32356688

Page

7

---

## Page 8

STORET

been contatned in OSWALD's KGB file:

i woute de appreciated if you would question

NOSENKO in light of the foregoing observations:

29220

In this regard it is suggested that NOSENKO not

he informed of OSWALD's possession of the name

address, and telephone number of Lev SETYAEVa

Stacier

[Memorandum for Director, Central Intelligence Agency; Attention:

tessar

Deputy Director.

Plans: Subject? Lee Harvey OSWALD - Internal

Security

Russia

Cuba from Director,

, FBI. J

SEGRET

MW. 53294 DocId: 32356688 Page

---

