# docid-32333782

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90107-10365

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-117222-244

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MM

HQ

Released under the John

". kennedy

48sa881nation Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

05/31/1966 Case#: NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

DATE:

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

COMMANDOS L.

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/30/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

TT

V9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32333782

Page 1

133

---

## Page 2

CUBANA DEL EXILIO (RECE), AN ANTI-CASTRO UNITY GROUP LAN TULINGHL

GEN COS AARA DAMENMENT TO (U)

ON MAY 31, 1966, COL. FRANKLYN BITHOS, USAFAD, MIAMI,

ADVISED THE ARMY HAD AN OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN COMANDOS L

UNTIL MAY 25, 1966, AND HAS NO OPERATIONAL INTEREST

IN THE MISSION OF MAY 29, 1966.

U)

BITHOS STATED HE HAD RECEIVED

INFORMATION THE FOLLOWING

PERSONS WERE ABOARD THE ABOVE MENTIONED LAUNCH C

ANTONIO GUESTA VALLE, ARMANDO RAMIRO, EUGENIO/ZALDIVAR

ACADENAS, HERMINIO DIAS, GUILLERMO ALVARES, AND ROBERTO

CUBA

ANTAXTERNANDEZ. (Su)

HE SAID THAT 'ANTA AND DIAZ WERE REPORTEDLY KILLED ON

THE BEACH, AND CUESTA AND ONE OTHER WERE REPORTEDLY CAPTURED

1(4)

ON MAY 3D, 1966, MM 635-S ADVISED INFORMATION HAD BEEN LAST NAME UNMIMI

RECEIVED FROM 30TH OF NOVEMBER LEADERS THAT DIAZ AND MANUEL (LNU)

WERE KILLED ON THIS RAID, AND THE PURPOSE OF THE MISSION WAS

TO ASSASSINATE FIDEL CASTRO, PRIME MINISTER OF CUBA. 1(044

CARIDAD TRUJILLO, MIAMI CONTACT FOR CUESTA, ADVISED MM 639-S

THAT IT HAD BEEN CONFIRMED THAT TWO MEN WERE KILLED, IWO MEN

WEREWOLNDED, AND THAT CUESTA WAS EITHER WOUNDED. OR DEAD. DIAZ

AND MANUEL WERE LISTED AS KILLED. 8(6>14

TRUJILLO SAID THAT CUESTA TOOK THE MISSION TO CUBA IN A

COMANDOS L BOAT, AND THE 30IH OF NOVEMBER WAS THE ONLY

ORGANIZAIION INVOLVED SAI

END PAGE TWO

ARMY PUFO PSI2,3 MANOBR

+40-164-49-70236

SOUBSA/Ger 000/0/90 - 210,326

CONCEN

A TA

NW 54464 DooId:32333782 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CUBA

PAGE..

ON MAY 31, 1966,

G

CON

DENTAL

CARLOS CARRAGA MARLINEL • MT

CUBAN ADVISED THAT INFORMATION WAS RECEIVED FROM A

CONG ENTAI

LISTING THE OCCUPANTS OF THE LAUNCH AS FOLLOWS: PU

ANTONIO CUESTA VALLE, ARMANDO ROMERO, EUGENIO LALDIVAR

ZIQUES, HERMINIO DIAZ, GUILLERMO ALVAREZ SANCHEZ, AND ROBERTO

ANTA FERNANDEZ. - 1(49 (4)

THE MISSION WAS FINANCED 8D PER CENT BY RECE, WHO

CONTIRNBUTED MONEY, AND 28 PER SEND BY MIGUEL IZA, 30TH' NOVEMBER

movements

LEADER, WHO CONTRIBUTED MILITARY EQUIPMENT AND EXPLOSIVES. #(EXUL

•ZARRAGA SAID THAT RADIO HAVANA, ON MAY 31, 1966, ANNOUNCED

THAT CUESTA AND ZALDIVAR WERE CAPTURED AND ADMITTED THEIR PURPOSE

WAS ASSASSINATION OF FIDEL CASTRO •

S(4)

RADIO HAVANA SAID THE BOAT USED WAS. A 23 FOOT BOAT OF

A VEGA BRAND TYPE, AND THE BOAT LEFT FROM MARATHON, FLORIDA

ON MAY 31, 1966

INS, MAM, ADVISED THEY

nice

THIS MATTER, AND TRYING TO OBTAIN THE IDENIITIES OF THE

PERSONS INVOLVED •

THE SAN JUAN OFFICE IS BEING ADVISED BY AIRMAIL•

SAN JUAN IS REQUESTED TO CONTACI SOURCES AND INFORMANS

*CONCERNING THIS MATTERING DEVELOP ADDITIONAL DETAILS.

i.is

INASMUCH AS US CUSTOMS AND INS ARE INVESTIGATION

TH

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

to fait

MATTER, MIAMI OFFICE WILL MAINTAIN CONTACT WITH THOSE AGENCIES,

AND KEEP THE BUREAU ADVISED.

LETTERHEAD MEMORANDUM FOLLOWING. A

= JUN & 1966,

TOTAL DENIAL

END

KGADDHEV

NW 54464 DooId:32333782 Page 3

---

