# docid-32137458

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

URDIADONDO GLUED TO TRAI

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10055-10475

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE. NUMBER: 62-109060-6607

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BRANIGAN, W. A.

TO:

SULLIVAN, W. C.

TITLE:

DATE: 11/08/1968

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT: LHO, POST-RP, FPCC, ACT, FILM

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

08/01/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

06/01/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32137458

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

1'5010-106

MAT 1962 EDITION

OSA GEN, REG. NO, 27

Tolson

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DeLooch _

Mohr

Memorandum

Bishop

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

Felt

Gale .

Mr. W. C. Sullivan

DATE: November 8, 1968

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter .

FROM

Mr. W. A. Branigan

Tele. Room

Holmes

fier

Gondy

I SUBJECT:

ASSASSINATION

1 OF

JOHN FITZGERALD

PRESIDENT

KENNEDY.

pasto

NOVEMBER 22,

1963

DALLAS, TEXAS

On November 8,

San Francisco Office called.

Oswald passing out leaflets for the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.

The informant's father, who resides in New Orleans, was con-

tacted by two male individuals who represented themselves as

being with the International World Trade Center and who said

they were interested in contacting the informant in order to

obtain the film he had for District Attorney James Garrison.

According to Harter, the informant was inclined to make this

film available to Garrison, but was first checking with the.

Bureau.

Harter was instructed to advise the informant that it

was solely his decision whether he made the film available to

Garrison or not and that the Bureau could not counsel him.

Harter stated that if the informant complied with the request,

he would furnish a copy of the film he had to Garrison and

would retain the original film.

It was pointed out to Harter that the informant had

originally taken this film in behalf of television station

WSDU in New Orleans and that the informant might want to consider

the Warren Commission Report and, therefore, the pictures are

in the public realm.

ACTION:

For information.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

PREIN, IS UNCLASSIFIE

DATE: 427/43 3% 9803add/gel

1S: JFK

62-109060

WAB: lag/,

(7)

EX 110

62-109060-460

. - Mr. Sullivan

1

-

1

Mr.

Branigan

~ Mr. Rozamus

}

Mr. Lenihan

27762

82555

REC 54

6

NOV 14 1968

(Oswald)

DocId: 32137458

Page 2

UNREC COPY, FILED IN

105-82555

---

