# docid-32310741

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10307-10045

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-648

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/10/1962

SGI, ASSOC, CONFERENCE, GUEST LOUNGE, DESCR, CRIM

ACT, PRISON

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

" g-

v9.1

DocId: 32310741

308

Page 1'

---

## Page 2

Released under the voin r Kennedy assassination Recorus correctionat

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-41 (Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

1992 744 05C

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Rosent

Sullivan

• Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy -

Tote):

Radio

x& Teletype

DEFERRED

310-62

2:00 AM

DIRECTOR

RDA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNULASSIFIED

FROM

SAC, CHICAGO

1100658

SAMUEL MO GIANCANA, AKA, ARO

¡DAILY SUMMARY. OG 6457-PC ADVISEDLA

SHE HAS LEFT MESSAGE WITH CARMEN FANNELLI, OWNER OF ARMORY

LOUNGE, REQUESTING GIANCANA TO MAKE CONTACT WITH INFORMANT. WILL

ADVISE OF DEVELOPMENTS. INFORMANT ALSO ADVISED THAT SAM DE

STEFANO HAD HAIR DYED BLACK, WEARS CREW CUT AND FREQUENTS GUEST

LOUNGE, HER PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT ON NIGHTLY BASIS. STATES WILLIE

"POTATOES" DADDANO, CHICAGO TOP HOODLUM, TONY DE ROSE AND BUCK

(LNU) ALSO IN CONFERENCE AT GUEST LOUNGE DURING WEEK. CLAIMS

SOL KAYE, RECENT RELEASEE FROM PRISON, ATTEMPTING TO IMPRESS

INFORMANT WITH GIFTS RECENTLY. CLAIMS SHE CAN QUIT JOB AND

"LIVE HIGH' WHEN BARNEY BAKER RELEASED FROM PRISON IN NEAR

FUTURE AND REUNITES WITH KAYE BAKER WAS RECENTLY CONVICTED

IN EASTERN DISTRICT, PENNSYLVANIA: FOR SHAKE=DOWN RACKET.

INFORMANT APPEASING KAYEIN ORDER TO OBTAIN PERTINENT INFORMATION.

NO INFORMATION REPORTED BY CG 6486-C* TODAY. GIANCANA ARMED

AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

3:08 AM

RN

REC- 26

92-3171-448

9 MAR 12 1962

B MAR 15112

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32310741 Page 2

---

