# docid-32201946

## Page 1

Date: 05/11/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10057

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54653 Date:

10-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, NEW YORK

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

DATE: 09/28/65

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1C, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/12/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

335-2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 54653

DocId: 32201946

Page 1

---

## Page 2

it a6 Us: 3-22-691

SECRED

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

• AS SANITIZED

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENY

2611194

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

9/28/65

/ REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON 4/1/94 dazes in plaintext or codel

RELFASE IN FULL

(P'riority)

RELEASE IN PARI

TOTAL DENIAL

DIRECTOR, FBI

10

205) | (5)

-) i

3723

0 .

O.. ?.8.

TO:

•

FROM:

SAC, NE! YORK

(205

3/4/94

SUBJECT:

RAUL

IS -

CUBA

CARCIN (S)

Declassily on: DAD& THIC

the

"UN

ReNYtel

9/27/65, captioned

IS to CUB.

Cuban Mission to

renio ti

BOUr (TIS)

le

attenored

ovised on 9/21/65, that on instant date

Sie

ache who, accoraing to the soupee,

but leamned that

eparted

10K

Traly on sunday evening, 9/26/65.

TIS

told source that Marta Jim la nember or

the rop

Delegation. to

the 0x) had casted and said she had a leuter

and some c pars for

exolatred that CUBsLA

wasta former. "Comnondante and a

fomes student leader at the University of havona who an

he past while, in curope had been in contact with cIa.

(S)

Fairee

0p: 9

35%

advised that oscir dur3.ncz

(3rd Secretary

ron che cuban trission to the un and another

untdonultread

he arorement soned tgars.and

Letter to

on the arternoon ot 9/27/0s

T15

conversation he "learned" that the Foreign minister (ROA

was in New lock and would address the un General Assembi

BureaU

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for anem,

nation outside your Committee.

•your Commii

an in response to your l 05- 1266.5

Its use as limited to official cared.

Miami K209-253105

e and the content may not be disclosed to wrauthorid vers

2

New York

the express approval of the for in o NOT eaC

(1 - 205-31084) (CUBAN, MISSTON)

059 5801

• SERENIC

"RRM: cmm

(7) 10

UT=-7975

5: 001 201065

SECRET.

DUH

•TAT

Approved:

Sent

- M

in r1.

HW 54653 DocId:32201946 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRED

NY (105-368097(5)

Source exoressed. considerable Interest and inquired arl

GUTIErReZ couldarrange for source to hear ROAls speech..

austerre sala that the number of visitors is restrioted;

but. that

ROANS

address.

try to obtaima pass. ton source to hear

some elated that cuss to tend the bag and beataved

to be a director

in a hospital in Havana. (s)

and believed

Source subsequently advised-on-9/28/65, that.

hehad placed a call tou

→ can coin Milan, Italy,

to inform him

to was strated ye one to tamed ted send out

letter to one mutam TRoPSoN, Post Orrice Box 7224, Apex

tation, Washington D, Co Accorcing the source, coseag

in addition tochis request for the aforementioned books

sard in his letter imagine you have been in Europe aine

this

month,

Imagine that you have seen CARRIACO.

I think there is a vosstollaty of some ousiness.

chiev

Source advised that he did not know the significancer

above, nor did fras? volunteer any information

Source intends to attempt to contact ROA through d

the cruN, possiply tomorrow (9/29/65) using his chance.

peeting anth. GUTTERPEZ as the

basisitor his knowledgerot

ROA's presencer in New York 5)

8.

Bureau will be kept advised of any developments.

-2-

RECEIVED FRA°•

1976

SECRETI

Mr 51653

DocId: 32201946

Page 3

---

