# docid-32304710

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Reeords Collection Act OF 1992 (AL USC: 2107. Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY: ' FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10286-10340

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-1ST NR 616, 2ND NR 616, 3RD NR 616

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CV

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/11/1964

9

LCN, ASSOC, MAFIA, INITIATION, FINANCES, CRIMINAL A/O

GAMBLING ACT, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 2 A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32304710

Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev, 12-73-56)

FBI

Date:

4/17/64

Transmit the following in

Via AIRIEL

AIR MAIL

-

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (157-742)

FROM:

SAC, CLEVELAND (157-127)

41

CAVBOMB

OLA COSA NOSTRA

captioned, "Cy-vela-Ta ta /10/64; Cleveland airtel 4/11/64,

CV-278-C-TE advised he attended a dinner meeting at

the Workingmen's Club, East Federal Street, Youngstown on

- the

night of 4/10/64, which was following an invitation he

had received from DOMINICK MALLAMO, aka.,

"BIG DOM"

, earlier that

day when he was advised to appear at 7:00 PM, and not to drive

his car to that location, but either to walk or call MALLAMO and

someone would pick him up.

Contrary to informant's previous

opinion, he was not required to make a trip that night.

Informant advised there were about 20 or 25 persons in

attendance at the dinner, all not known to the informant.

After

ORICINER FILED IN

they had finished eating,

MALLAMO got up and addressed the group

and introduced the informant as a new member, and stated "he

1s now one of us"

MALLAMO also remarked to

the group that the

group had to stick together as one, otherwise they will fall

apart.

He also mentioned that many members are behind on their

monthly dues, and also mentioned that the initiation fee is

$100 followed by monthly dues of $10 per month.

In addition to MALLAMO, informant recognized the

following in attendance

at the dinner meeting:

92-6054-

NOT RECORDED

183 APA 23 1964

1

-

5

- Cleveland

(1 - 92-621)

1- 92-748

1 - 92-477)

SEP/ jgp

(15)

DARDOM COPY

Approved:

SAC

150

K3 APR 2 9 1964

DocId: 32304710 Page 2

Sent

M Per

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hobe).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CV 157-127

JOSEPH "BLACKIE" GENNARO, Hillsville, Pa., and Youngstown,

Ohio, blacktop (asphalt) contractor, race horse owner, and member

of. the Pennsylvania State Boxing Commission.

(FNU) RICH - partner, Putko, Washko and Rich Funeral

Directors, Campbell, Ohio.

SAM ZARLENGO - Owner, Royal Cafe, East Federal Street,

Youngstown.

ANTHONY AULISIO - Owner, Aulisio Fish Market, East

Federal Street, Youngstown, Ohio.

TONY VERSACE, aka. "TONY THE BUICK" - Youngstown.

"CHICKIE" - former bartender at the Skyway Tavern,

Youngstown.

"COCKEYED JIMMY" - Campbell, Ohio.

Informant stated that after the dinner he went with MALIAMO

to the kitchen of the Workingmen's Club, at which time he asked

MALLAMO about the initiation fee, and told MALLAMO he had not told

him this before, and MALIAMO told him not to worry about it, and

that the informant will be making money soon.

Informant stated he asked MALLAMO if the barbut game

was going to re-open soon in the Youngstown area, and MALLAMO

stated definitely not, as there are too many FBI men in town.

MALLAMO stated that CHARLES CARABBIA, Struthers,

and kept the FBI in Youngstown, and has generated "too much "heat"

on the area.

He also stated that if CARABBIA does not go to

jail, something may happen to him that he might not be around,

and then stated, "we don't know"

At this same time MALIAMO instructed the informant never

to talk business over the telephone, stating that the FBI has

the telephones tapped, and the best

thing for the informant

to do is to make a call and then set a place

and a time for

meeting, and then discuss his business in person.

- 2=

DocId: 32304710 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CV 157-127

Lt. ORLANDO DI LULLO, Mahoning County Sheriff's Office,

Youngstown,

advised he received information from an informant

that CHARLES CARABBIA has been told he talks too much, and

to keep quiet, and that JAMES PRATO, aka., "TWO GUN JIMMY"

nephew of DOMINICK MALLAMO, has brought one "MACHINEGUN KELLY"

from out of town "to take care of CHARLIE". Lt. DI LULLO

advised that the Mahoning County Sheriff's Office has, and

1s conducting a

surveillance of the PRATO residence and LENNIE's

Lounge, owned by PRATO, and has recorded all license numbers

of auto transporting visitors and/or customers of PRATO.

It is further to be noted that CHARLES CARABBIA was

convicted on 4/6/64, for assault with a deadly weapon in Court

of Common Pleas, Youngstown, and has filed a motion for a new

trial, which motion will be

heard on 4/17/64.

• on 4/13/64, the U.S.

Supreme Court refused toallow

the application for

• bail of JOSEPH NAPLES, JR.,

aka:,

in his appeal filed before that tribunal.

"JOEY"

In view of the

above, NAPLES was arrested and incarcerated in the Mahoning

County Jail, Youngstown on 4/15/64, to be removed to the Ohio

State Penitentiary on 4/20/64, to begin serving his sentences

of 1 to 7 and 1 to 10 years for receiving stolen property

and for promoting a numbers game.

JAMES FRANK COX, PCI, advised that in conversation

with PAUL "PINTO" HOLOVATICH,

associate and employee of NAPLES,

that he learned that HOLOVATICH is going to handle the NAPLES'

numbers operation when JOEY NAPLES is incarcerated in the peni-

tentiary.

CV-581-PC advised that HOLOVATICH, RONALD CARABBIA,

brother of CHARLES, DOMINIC PETER SENZARINO,, JR., cousin of

CARABBIA, FRANK LENTINE and JOSEPH SARICH,

all burglars in the

Youngstown area, and JAMES COLAVECCHIO and PATSY CISTERNINO;

burglars of Cleveland, are considering a "score" ön an Individual

unknown to the informant, but whom he described as an"outfit guy"

who has

a new home in warren, Ohio, which allegedly has a bomk

shelter built into it. He also has

teacher.

According to OV-581-PC, the word is that this

individual has a considerable

amount of cash which he keeps

in his home.

- 3-

DocId: 32304710 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kenhedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CV157-127

BESSIE IMBURGIA, daughter of JOHN IMBURGIA, Warren,

Ohio, was interviewed under pretext, and she stated in speaking

cHarles MurGIE, aka.,

CHARLES MAURA TE ARE resIdes In a relatively new

CHARLES IMBURGIA,

home at 2166 Sarkie Drive, N.E., Warren, Ohio.

She described

the home as a very elaborate place and stated it was even

equipped with a bomb shelter. She stated that MURGIE has a

daughter who is also a school teacher, and that "LITTLE CHARLIE"

operates the Sunrise Inn, East Market

Street, Warren.

On 3/30/64, CV-581-PC advised that LENTINE, SENZARINO,

PHILIP JAMES MAINER, aka.

"FLEAGLE"

, Youngstown thief, currently

in Florida and KENNY (LNU), (who 1s married to FRANK CAMMARATA ' $

daughter, and further noted that CAMMARATA's wife 1s the former

GRACE LICAVOLI, sister of JAMES LICAVOLI, aka., JACK WHITE, of

Cleveland), together with four others from Youngstown, left

on the night of 3/27/64, and returned on Saturday morning.

Informant does not know where the attempted burglary was located

but had heard that they were unsuccessful in their attempt.

Mrs. GRACE CAMMARATA, 373 Porter, N.E., Warren, wife

of FRANK CAMMARATA was interviewed on the pretext of

checking

out a rumor that her husband had returned and was living in the

U.S. Mrs. CAMMARATA became very excited and stated she was in

i11 health and stated her husband is still in Cuba.

During

the interview it was determined that she has two daughters,

namely GRACE,married to a KENNETH A. SLOAN, and residing in

Campbell, Ohio, and the older daughter is one Mrs. AMATC

of Cleveland (probably married to ANGELO AMATO). She stated

her only son is employed at the Packard Electric Company,

Warren, Ohio.

Records of the Youngstown Credit Bureau show that

KENNETH A. SLOAN resides at 624 Dumont,

• Campbell, phone 755-

4082, employed Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company,

and married

to GRACE, having been previously married to a MARY, but

divorced in 1955.

Records of the Youngstown Sheet and Tube

Company, indicate SLOAN emploÿed, and married to GRACE CAMMARATA,

who was

born 5/19/33, at Warren.

4*

DocId: 32304710 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Heleased

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (11 050-2107 Tote).

DATE: 11-142017

4/16/64

Airtel

TO: SAC, Clevoland (137-29)

From: DArector, 18192-6054-

LA COSA NOSTRA

CV 275-C-TE

1 - Mc. Keliy

ReCVairtel 4/11/61 captioned, "CV 278-C-TE, Top Echelon

Criminal informant Progran."

Bezirtel indicates that informant has been made a member of

Italian organization and describes the initiation ceremony in

whic inforzant participated with Dominick Mallamo and Paul Romeo,

the latter who was identified as retired "hoad" of the "Calabrese

organizatio."

in the Youngstown area.

It is noted that this initiation cerenony is sinilar in

respects to the ceremony undergone by other infoznants

who are

members of Cosa Nostra, though the symbolism used in this ceremony

varieS somewhat.

Other sources who have described coir initiation

ceremonies in this organization have undergone an actual drawing of

blood fron a finger, and intermingling of this blood with that of the

sponsor, as compared to this informant's sharing wine, which, as

explained to him by roleo, stood for "blood, which is

the bond between

Though it is appreciated that the informant is newly

accepted and could not be expected to be aware of all of the rules

and intricacies of this group, there appear to be a few points he

could clarily.

In this category, you should determine exactly what

intornant considers himself to be a member of, that is, what

terminology is used by the Youngstown section of this organization.

Fo: example, does he consider binsell a member of the Calabrese

group within La Cosa Nostra os is other terminology provalent in

that area.

Also, have superiors, other than homeo and Malamo,

been

identified to him?

What is the connection of his group with the

Tolson

Cleveland group:

or possibly with the Detroit or Pittsburgh leuder-

Belmont - ship-in Cosa

Nostra?

Mohr

(Casper

Callahan

Contad

DeLoach -

TJE: erw

(5)

Evaps -

Gale

Rose

Tave

MAILED 5

APR 1 6 1964

COMM-FBI

Trotter

Tele. Room =:.

Holmes .

Gandy

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

ORIGINAL FILED

DocId: 32304710

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the Jonn F. Kennedy Assassination Recorus Collection Aut or 1992 14T USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Airtel to Cleveland

Re: LA COSA NOSTRA

The acceptance of captioned source into membership

in this organization is a nost encouraging development in your

Top Echelon Criminal Informant Program and you should keep

Bureau closely advised of further progress in your handling of

CV 278-C-TE.

- 2

DocId: 32304710 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released Under the John F. Kennedy AsSassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hobe).

DATE: J1-11-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 10-29-63)

Date:

F, B I

•4/11/64

Transmit the following 1n

(Type In plain text or code'

Via

'AIRTEL

(PriorIty

+----

TO: Director, FBI (66-18335)

FROM: SAC, Cleveland (137-29 SA)

CV 278-C-TE

TOP ECHELON

CRIMINAL INFORMANT

Cosa Nostre

CV 278-C-TE was contacted on 4/9,10/64, at which time

he advised that on the afternoon of 4/9/64, he contacted DOMINICK

Youngstown, and thereafter the two of them drove to the home of

PAUL ROMEO, 12th St.; Campbell, Ohio, previously reported as

retired "head" of the "Calabrese Organization" in the Youngs-

cat bree isa 28 tong

town area.

Upon arrival at the home, informant advised he and

MALLAMO went to the basement of the home, where informant had

previously met with ROMEO and MALLAMO, and MALLAMO remained in

one room, and ROMEO took him into another room where there was

• Large statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary.

ROMEO advised informant

he was going to make him "one of us," in that he felt informant

"Is a good boy."

ROMEO took the Informant by the hand and instructed

Informant to kneel before the statue, which Informant did, and then

92-6054-

NOT RECORDED

180 APR 21 1964

CARBON COPY

ORIGINAL FILED IN

Bureau (RM)

- 92-6054;

- 157-742)

9 - Cleveland

(1-92-748; 1 - 92-808;

- 92-639; 1

- 157-127;

- 92-621: 1-92-477;

1

- 166-69)

SEP/hs

(16)

Approved:

Sent

_M Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32304710 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Réleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CV 137-29 SA

ROMEO knelt beside him. ROMEO instructed Informant to repeat

after him, "If something happens any place and I

get caught,

what this is, this is blood, which is the bond between us,"

and then ROMEO asked the informant, "Do you know me?"

and

Infornant replled "No," and ROMEO replied, "That's good."

ROMEO Shen asked, "Do you know DOMINICK?"

and informant advised

"I know him from

the Workingmen's Club," and ROMEO replied

"That's good'."

ROMBO then told the informant, "Sometime you

might have to say you don't know DOMINICK, O.K.?" and Informant

replied in the affirnative.

Infornant advised ROMEO again took him before the

statue and told him to light two candles, which he provided,

and instructed him, when kneeling, to repeat,

"I die before

I squeal," which the Informant did.

Then ROMEO advised infor-

mant that there are many people in this world that are no good,

"FBI 1s no good people."

ROMEO then stated, "No let

nobody cool you because you get mad, you must never

get mad.

See DOMENICK (MALLAMO) before you make a move, and never make

a move by youzself.

ROMEO then told the Informant that 1f

MALLAMO shouid go out of town and the informant needs to see

nim and cannot

that he should come to ROMEO, and he would

belong a 13 RUNS MARTER). ROMEO stated to Informant, "you

and informant then said, "If I belong to you,

then you belong to me too," and ROMEO said "yes."

ROMEO said

"If soneone do something wrong to you, don't do something back,

but go and see DOMINICK. You're too young a man to die, and

we get many young fellows to do the job, not one man, and

not you.

ROMsO then called MALLAMO into the room and the three

knelt, before the statues and informant again repeated, "I die

before I aqueal.

If something happens any place and I get

caught, I don't talk."

ROMEO then asked the Informant,

"What

i? they take you to jail and hit you with a strap, what do you

do?"

Inforant stated he told him he would get mad and that

he would letti. the person

who hit him, and ROMEO said,

"No,

don't do thas, so and

see DOMINICK (MALLAMO),'

" and informant

said "o,k.

-2--

DocId: 32304710 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Reheated under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 Use 2107 kute).

DATE: 11-11-2017°

CV 137-29 SA

Informant then stated ROMEO took "holy water" and

blessed informant and MALLAMO as they held hands, and

the

informant was instrucied to fold his hands, still kneeling,

and cold to repeat after ROMBO,

"If I have

to go to jail I

go."

Informant then cold ROMEO that he did not 1lke this:

in that it someone hit him, he would hit back or kill, and

ROMEO said. "No, we got people that do this kind of business."

Informant, stated that all three then stood up, and

NOME poured another glass of wine for each, and the three of

then drank the wine.

ROMBO then asked informant if he was

able to travel, lI MALLAMO could not go, and informant said

ns was.

"Suppose I need you to go to

and informant replied that he

could, and ROMEO asked.

"To Cleveland?" and Informant again

replied he could.

ROMEO cautioned the informant that he was

not siloved to carry a sun anymore, and told the informant he

krew the informant had a blackjack and also told him to put

it away.

He also told him to make sure he never carried a

cun or blackjack

in his

car at anytime.

Just before leaving, ROMEO told the informant

"DOMINICK tell you when going to have a meeting."

Informant adviced on 4/10/64 he had received a

call from MALLAMO that day to attend a meeting at the working-

men's Club, and not to drive his car to that location, but

either to walk: or call hin and he would have someone pick him

ip..

Informant advised that from the conversation he formed the

opinton that he was going to have to make a trip for MALLAMO,

but cot 10 bie owa

and he has no idea where he will have

to go, or if anyone

will accompany him.

He stated he will make

the trip as MALLAMO requests, and the Bureau will be kept ad-

viced of all developments.

-3-

DocId: 32304710 Page 10

---

