# docid-32292046

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER:

124-10208-10322

RECORD_SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER:

45-10852-20

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/18/1968

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

OBA, ASSOC, ACA, CUBAN POWER, SUSP, BOMBING, POLISH VESSEL

"POLANICA"

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

04/06/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32292046

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 lipte).

DATE: 11-14-304tan

aleslat

VIA TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson

rof.

Mr. Lalnach

NR---700- 5/15 PM ED'T RGC

SEP 1 8 1968

uohr.-.

3 shop

URGEN

T

9-18-68

ENCIPHERED

Mr.

Casper

RECRET

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

TO

DIRECTOR AND SAN JUAN

(CODE )

Mr. Felt

Mr. Gale

Mr.

Rosf

SAN JUAN VIA WASHINGTON

FROM MIAMI

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUO/GEL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (016)

shite

Mr.

Sulliv

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trutter-

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

JFK)

10/21/97

Miss Gandy-

UNSUBS; EXPLOSION OF SPANISH REGISTRY VESSEL SS COROMOTO.

SEPT • TWELVE, SIXTYEIGHI • CHS - FOTWV (SAN JUAN FOUR FIVE =

31

SEVEN EIGHT NINE>

'g1.12

CADR

• UNSUBS; ATTEMPT TO DAMAGE POLISH REGISTRY VESSEL "POLANICA"

MIAMI, FLA•, SEPT. SIXTEEN, SIXTYEIGHT. CHS - FOTWV

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNOLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WEIRE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

RE MIAMI TELS NINE SEVENTEEN LAST •

*I ONE TWO TWO EIGHI) -S (PROTECT

WHO HAS FURNISHED

RELIABLE INFORMATION IN THE PAST , ADVISED THIS DATE WHILE IN

THE DOGHOUSE RESTAURANT, MIAMI, AND SEATED NEXT TO ORLANDO BOSCH

AND AN UNIDENTIFIED CUBAN MALE BELIEVED TO BE A CUBAN MEDICAL

DOCTOR, SHE OVERHEARD THE FOLLOWING CONVERSATION WHICH WAS

CONDUCTED IN THE SPANISH LANGUAGE. BOSCH RELATED HIS CUBAN

EX 110

REC- 51 45-1085220

POWER GROUP WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE BOMBING OF THE SHIP

SAN JUAN AND THE SHELLING OF THE POLANICA IN THE MIAMI HARD REP 20 1968

INFORMANT STATED BOSCHUEXPLAINED HOW THEY USED A CAR TO

TRANSPORT THE WEAPON ONTO THE CAUSEMAYLTO THE APPROPRIATE SPOT

FOR FIRING. HE ALSO INDICATED THE WEAPON WAS FIRED FROM OUTSIDE

CAR

AND

SEND

LIN 1 T BON THE AREA.

TO DEPART FROM THE AREA. INFORMANTOIM

c..

DocId: 32292046 Page 2

---

