# docid-32311394

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

444

USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10313-10010

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 100-395934-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: MX

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/19/1964

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

ELIZABETH CATLETT MORA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/23/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32311394

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE = 11-11-2017

•SECRET

DIRECTOR

(705-82555)

CONFIDENTIA 15/64

LEGAT, MEXICO (105-3702)

(P)

ALFICORMATION COM

HEREIN T5

ASSIFIED

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, AKA

IS - R - CUBA

MIN

OTHERWISE

Enclosed are 16 copies of a letterhead memorandum (LHM)

dated and

captioned as

above, which states the number of sources

contacted regarding the reported interest of the Communist Party

of Mexico in the OSWALD case. U

• 10094

ReBulet 4/21/64: 4

With regard to ELIZABETH CATLETT MORA's statement

that MARY LOUISE CAMACHO,

nee PATTYSON, knew OSWALD while he

in Russia*VEX-18 and MEX-19Xh

been unable to obtain

(u)

more explicit information from MORA. "The matter was discussed

again with the informants on 5/5/64,

that, according to MORA, she and CAMACHO are long-time friends

dating back to the time

they were both residents of New York

City.

The informants advised that MORA and CAMACHO correspond

frequently with MORA writing to CAMACHO approximately twice a

week and

sending her toilet articles, warm socks, and similar

items which CAMACHO has needed while

in Russia.

They stated,

however,

that MORA has ignored all opportunities persistently

created

by the informants to say anything more about what

CAMACHO may have written her at one time or another regarding

LEE HARVEY OSWALD.

As previously pointed out, direct question-

193 9803 20 GAT

ing of MORA by the informants does not produce information.

With regard to MORA's information concerning OSWALD's

visit to the Cuban

Embassy, that information, according to MORA,

came from TERESA PROENZA,

then Cultural Attache of the Cuban

Embassy, during a conversation between MORA and PROENZA.

According to the informants, MorA and PROENZA had been close

friends for an extended period of time.

On

the occasion of

MORA's relating the story to the informants on 1/13/64 the

informants tried to elicit more information from her, but at

1233

6 - Bureau (Encs. 16)

(1 - Liaison Section)

(2 - Dallas, 100-10461)

(1 - New York, 105-38431,

1 - Mexico City

NLF: plb

(7)

/ ENCLOSURE

191

6 4 JUN 2 3 1964

CLASSIFIED

DECLASSIFY

1100-395934

NOT RECORDED

199 JUN 3 1964

304280T /AG

11887

CONFILENTIALS

ACRET

ORIGINAL FILED IN

DocId: 32311394

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under-the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO 105-3702

SEGRET CONFXENTIAG

that time and thereafter

they have not been able to develop

any additional details and MORA has not revealed any additional

information.

The Mexico City Office appreciates the Bureau's

position that this matter must be pursued in depth and that the

informants should be made aware of the fact that the questions

raised by MORA's original information cannot be left unanswered.

The informants have been

impressed repeatedly with the need to

follow this case aggressively with MORA and to clarify the

They repeatedly have created situations

which would open up a discussion of the previous information,

but have been met with an apparent total lack of interest on

MORA's part.

On 5/5/64 the informants pointed out that,

subsequent to MORA's original indication of interest in press

reports concerning the OSWALD case, they had repeatedly called

her attention to various articles appearing in the press,

including an article in "Life" magazine, but received no

reaction whatsoever and no indication of interèst.*

Under

instructions from this office the informants

have tried continuously to set up a two or three-day trip out

of Mexico City with MORA and her husband, FRANCISCO MORA:

Definite arrangements were made on three

different occasions

for

the proposed trip, and on each occasion MORA was enthusiastic

about it, desiring to get away from the family and other problems

a few days' rest and relaxation.

On each occasion, however,

she postponed the trip due to financial problems with the house

she and her husband

are constructing, ill health of her mother,

or pressure of developments such as important visitors arriving

in Mexico whom she had

to attend.

The informants made a final

effort to set up a meeting with MORA following the week

end of

5/9-10/64 and prior t%VEX-19's departure for the United States

on 5/18/64, but MORA again claimed that as much

as she wanted

take the trip

and much as she needed the rest she would not

be

able to leave Mexico City

because of the projects she had

pending.

it does not appear that it will be possible to set up

such a meeting

In the future in view of

(MEX-19 's *eturn to thel

United States.

Both

informants have expressed the belief that further

efforts to obtain more specific data from MORA on this matter

would be "working a dry well."

On 5/5/64 they advised that*

their opinion MORA's complete loss of interest in the OSWALD

case

indicates that she has now decided that she and her:

associates were not actually involved with him. She, therefore,

does: not discuss the matter any more aside from speculative

-2-

CONFYDENTIAL SEGRET

DocId: 32311394

Page 3

---

