# docid-32317265

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

. 5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10353-10002

RECORD SERIES :

BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-61-3-582

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BU

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/15/1964

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS:

STEVE MAGADDINO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32317265

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD- 143 (Rev.

4-2-63.)

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

JUNE

(Bufile 92-2924.

) DATE:

7/15/64

FROM

:

SAC, BUPPAZO (92-61 Sub 3)

SUBJECT:

JUSTIFICATION. FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE:

Title

SUSVE MAGADDINO, aka

0

Character of Case

Field Office

Symbol Number

Type of Surveillance:

Microphone)

AR

Buffalo

BU 280-C*

(Technical.or

Microphone

1...

Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

STEVE MAGADDINO, Dana Dr., Town of Lewiston, New York

Address where, installation made. Also give exact room number or area

Magaddino Memorlal Chapel, Portage Rd. and Nagara Stop

Nagara Palls, New. York

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Buffalo Offtce

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Installation authorized per Bureau letter dated 10/22/62;

installation was made 11/8/62

5:

Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places) :

BU 82-Cx was

Installed at Camellià Linen Supply Co, Buffalo,

New York, on 4/4/01, under caption

"VINGENE A. SCRO, ARD

Bureau f120 92-4227, and provides Information re activities

Of STEVE MACADDINO.

6. If installation is

technical surveillance, answer following questions: N.A.

a.

Is a trunk line utilized?

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

Is the surveillance on a mibile coln-operated telephone?

1 - Bureau (RM) (AMSD

Burfalo

Registered Mail

92-61 Ruh3 582

FBJ: jav

Searched_

- Serialised li

(2)

Indexed

221

DocId: 32317265 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-61 Sub 3

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each: One microphone in a 44A telephone block

on the wall in the office of PälER A. MAGADDINO, Magaddino

Memorial Chapel, Nagare Falls, New York.

8.

Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

No.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value ofreach item and the date information

received.

State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

10..

See attached.

Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

No.

11.. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Subject 18 known to six live informants, however, they are

not in a position to furnish information supplied by this

source

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No.

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

No.

14.

Cost of Plant Premises:

Rental costs for plant premises:

None

Plant located In

Buffalo Office.

Do:

Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

Seven.

- 2.-

DocId: 32317265 Page 3

---

