# docid-32332854

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90104-10152

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2940-34

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/09/1958

7

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NW 45836 DocId: 32332854

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OFFICE MEMORANDUM • United States Government

TO:

Director, FBI (92-2940)

Date:

7/9/58

FROM:

he Petaburen (92-226)

SUBJECT:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, waS.,

ANTI- RACKETEERING

00: Pittsburgh

7/9/58

Enclosed is report of SA ROBERT A. VOEGE, at Pittsburgh,,

REFERENCES

Miami airtel to Pittsburgh, 5/2/58

Letter to Bureau framlegat,

Report of SA ROBERT A. VOEGE, Pittsburgh, 5/15/58

Report of SA WILLIAM HENRY SIMMS, New York,

Philadelphia letter to Pittsburgh,

5/12/58

Miami airtel to Pittsburgh, 5/29/58

Man Intes to pitsura, 5/2/58%

Baltimore letter to Pittsburgh,

Dallas airtel to Pittsburgh, 6/11/58

Report of SA FRANCIS B. JENKINS, Buffalo, 6/13/58

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED 31,226

DATE 5/8/86

BYSBJAGCL

ADMINISTRATIVE

IN VIEW OF THE CONVICTION OF THE SUBJECT FOR ASSAULT WITH INTENT

TO KIT: AND HIS ARREST FOR CARRYING A CONCEALED WEAPON, HE MAY

BE ARMED AND SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

? Bureau (Encl.2)

2 Baltimore (Encl 2) (92-149)

Buffalo (92-87)

1

Jacksonville (Info) (Encl.1

1

Miami: (Info). (92-163) Encl.]

• New York (92-825) (Encl.2)

2

Philadelphia

(92-497)/ (Encl.2)

3

Pittsburgh

16: 92-2940-34

2 JUL 10 1958

RAV: AAP

(15)

GICLOSURE

NW

45836

DocId: 32332854

Page

JUL 2 8 1958 1l6

---

## Page 3

FG 92-226

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The Baltimore Office advised on: 6/2/58 that on 5/30/58

MAX GOLDBERG, accountant for several of Pittsburgh's top

hoodlums in the past,had stated to SA PAUL A: TURNER that he

would cooperate with the FBI if he had information which might

be of assistance. He requested that he be contacted at

Pittsbürgh

sometime prior to 6/9/58 and advised that he expected

to be back at his Baltimore, Maryland, residence on or about

7/7/58

• MAX LOUIS GOLDBERG, accountant for MIKE GENOVESE,

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, and GABRIEL and SAMUEL MANNARINO for

many years, was interviewed by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE on 6/6/58 at

his apartment in the Kennilworth Apartments, 5700 Centre Avenue,

Pittsburgh, Pa., regarding SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA.

He advised

that he 1s still handling the income tax returns and other

such accounting business for LA ROCCA and has been intimately

acquainted with him for many years. He stated that he appeared

at Pittsburgh during the trial of LA ROCCA several years ago

and investigated LA ROCCA's past accounts, at which time he

found that LA ROCCA actually owed the government money.

advised that he informed LA ROCCA of this fact and told LA ROCCA

he would have to pay.

GOLDBERG estimates that LA ROCCA owes

him approximately $5,000 for work which he has done for him in

the past.

He stated

that he fully expects to be reimbursed by

LA ROCCA but does not know when this will be. He advised that he

is an honest accountant who has never had any reason to conceal

anything that might be of interest to the Federal Government.

During a discussion of his background, he advised that he had

once made application to the FBI and the U.s. Secret Service,

but did not go into any branch of the Federal Government because

more lucrative business propositions came about at

approximately

the same time.

GOLDBERG

advised that he would be willing to cooperate

with the FBI in his capacity as an accountant and would furnish

any figures or

work sheets that the FBI might want to examine.

He was unable to furnish

any specific information regarding

LA ROCCA that is not already known by the Pittsburgh Office, and

advised that the only work papers he has regarding LA ROCCA

duplicates of these which

were sent to the Internal Revenue

Service during the past

several years.

He stated that he is

- 2-

NW 45836 DocId: 32332854

Page

3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

willing to be contacted on a regular and continuing basis but.

that he will telephonically contact the FBI in either Pittsburgh

or Baltimore should he come into possession of any information

which he feels would be of value to investigations being

conducted

on racketeers for whom he has

worked.

The following Individuals are being utilized by the OTHER 4

Pittsburgh Office In the LA ROCCA Investigation:

potential criminal informant, who is

well acquainted with many of Pittsburgh's top hoodlums

and who Is presently empbyed as a waitress in the Red

Eagle Club, formerly known as the Genovese Cocktail

Lounge, 412 Larimer Avenue, Pittsburgh, where she

comes in constant contact with MIKE GENOVESE, JOHN

LA ROCCA, subject's younger brother, and other members

of Pittsburgh's racketeering element.

She is presently

being utilized for the coverage of the GENOVESE-LA ROCCA-

NELSON interests.

PO: 573-C, who is extremely friendly with: the GENOVESE

brothers and particularly FIORE, and who is being

utilized presently for general coverage of the Red

Eagle Club and its visitors.

a potential criminal informants who

IS Intimately acquainted with many Pittsburgh top

hoodlums and racketeers through association with them

when they began their racket careers, and who is

presently being utilized for coverage of the GENOVESE-

NELSON-LA ROCCA interests.

a potential criminal informant, who

Is presently engaged in racket activity in the city

of Pittsburgh and who is being utilized for general

coverage of lottery operations and numbers operations

In the Pittsburgh area.

AL BUCK, former Allegheny County Detective and present

Vice President of the Fidelity Trust Company, Loan

Department, Pittsburgh,

Pa., who is being utilized for

his knowledge of the Bankers Exchange in Pittsburgh

3 -

NW 45836 DocId: 32332854 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-226

whereby he can obtain information regarding bank

loans made to Pittsburgh top hoodlums.

BUCK iS

also familiar with the activities of several of

Pittsburgh's top hoodlums, particularly those of

LA ROCCA, from having worked on criminal matters

for many years in the city of Pittsburgh.

In an effort to increase criminal informant coverage,

it. is anticipated that

Assistant City Solicitor

for the city of Pittsburgh, will again be contacted for hig

views and opinions concerning the Pittsburgh criminal situation.

It is further anticipated that THOMAS MARTIN, Vice Fresident,

Real Estate Department, Potter Bank and Trust Company, Pittsburgh,

will keep the Pittsburgh Office advised of any newœvelopments

concening the proposed construction of a motel backed by GENOVESE

and ARTHUR D. NELSON in the Monroeville, Pa, vicinity, which

would probably lave to have the approval of SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA:

Pause to have to gyro

It is further anticipated that former Pittsburgh top

hoodlum SAMUEL' NATHANIEL LEVINE, who is now a potential criminal

Informant for the Pittsburgh' Office, will be contacted at:

regular intervals' so that a more complete picture of the

racketeering activities in the city of pittsburgh may be obtained.

LEADS

JACKSONVILLE & MIAMI (Information) :

One copy of this report is being furnished to the Jackson-

ville Office and one is being furnished to the Miami Office, both

for information, because of allegations made by the wife of

IA ROCCA and the Pittsburgh informants concerning subject's travel

in Florida and Cuba during his so-called "disappearance"

from

Pittsburgh.

With the background supplied, It is felt that these

offices canintelligently handle the coverage of any future leads

requested.

BALT IMORE

OTHER

AT BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

It is requested that MAX LOUIS GOLDBERG be recontacted

upon his return to his Baltimore residence for any information

- 4 -

NW 45836 DocId: 32332854

Page

5

---

## Page 6

PG: 92-226

that might have come into his possession since his contact

by a Bureau agent at Pittsburgh. It should be noted that

GOLDBERG was contacted without any advance warning about

what he would be interviewed about and it is felt that careful

deliberation and thought on his part might result in further

Information not recalled during the time of the interview

concerning top hoodlums SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA and MIKE

GENOVESE.

BUFFALO

AT BUFFALO, NEW YORK

It is requested that the subscriber to Buffalo

telephone Moh 9610,

which was contacted from the LA ROCCA

residence on 5/16/50,.

be ascertained and a brief summary of

his background set forth.

NEW YORK

AT NEW. YORK, NEW YORK

Will ascertain the identity of the subscribers to

telphone numbers CU 5-8367 and AL 7-2715, and set forth brief

background data concerning these subscribers. It should be, noted

that CU 5-8367 ls a number which has been called from the

LA ROCCA residence on numerous occasions and that the last

contact made from the LA ROCCA residence with AL 7-2715 was on

4/15/58, for a total of 23 minutes.

PHILADELPHIA

AT WAYNE, PA.

Inasmuch as officials at the Peoples First National Bank

and. Trust Company of Pittsburgh can find no savings or checking

account in the name

of LA ROCCA or any of his known aliases, will

ascertain complete information concering the checks with which the

subject pays for his adopted son's room and board at Valley Forge

Milftary Academy. Number of check,

date drawn and signature.

should be ascertained and a stop placed against the next check

received by that school so that 1t, can be determined exactly

where the subject now has his bank account.

- 5 -

NW 45836 DocId: 32332854

Page 6

---

## Page 7

PG: 92-226

PITTSBURGH

AT PITTSBURGH, PA._ (ALLEGHENY)

Will maintain contact with the officials of the

Pittsburgh offices of the USM, Irmigration and Naturalization

Service and Internal Revenue Service so that any new developments

concerning their interest in this matter will be received immediately.

2.

will maintain regular and continuing contact with ChARLES

THOMAS, Box 71, Ingomar, Pa., (telephone Forest 4-9995) the owner

and operator of the Gulf Service Station near the LA ROCCA residence

so that it can be immediately determined when the subject arrives

at his residence.

Will check the list of toll calls made from Forest

4-5296, the home telephone of the subject, for the names of

racket associates not now known to the Pittsburgh Office and

will identify and obtain appropriate background of subscribers

to telephöne numbers called.

W111,

In the event' informants advise that the subject

has arrived in the Pittsburgh vicinity, Immediately contact the

office of the USM where two subpoenaes are outstanding and will

conduct disereet surveillances of his travel noting pertinent

contacts made by him.

Will set. out appropriate leads on tangible results

obtained from a mail cover placed on the residence of the subject

at Ingomar.

OTHER 4

arly contact potential criminal informants

so that ample coverage

may be arforded the LA ROCCA-GENOVESE-NELSON interests.

7.

Will, through established informant coverage, endeavor

to ascertain the specific whereabouts of the subject during the

months of February through June, 1958, and his mode of travel

during that period.

- 6..

NW 45836 DocId: 32332854

Page

7

---

