# docid-32298644

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10222-10420

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3267-556

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

02/08/1964

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JRO, DESERT INN HOTEL, ASSOC, BUSS VENTURES,

AIRLINE RECORDS, TELEPHONE NUMBER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NN 45945 DocId: 32298614 Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

2/8/64

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

FROM:

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-113) (C)

RE:

JOHN ROSELLI, aka

AR

IV 129-PC advised the Las Vegas Office on 1/31/64

that ROSSELLI checked into the Desert Inn Hotel, Las Vegas,

Nevada, late in the day on 1/30/64.

Spot checks on numerous

occasions during the past week of ROSSELLI's Los Angeles

apartment failed to disclose his car in the garage on any of

these occasions, and no information has been received from

other sources that ROSSELLI returned to Los Angeles during

the past week.

On the afternoon of 2/4/64 Special Agents of the

Los Angeles Office observed ROSSELLI's 1963 Ford Thunderbird

parked in a lot in the 600 block of La Cienega Boulevard,

Los Angeles, directly across the street from the Bantam Cock

Restaurant. Four men came from the Bantam Cock and entered

ROSSELLI'S

, car. None of the men was ROSSELLI.

The men drove

to the 300 block of Foothill Road, Beverly Hills, california,

Where they parked the car in a lot of Litton Systems and then

all four entered the Litton Systems building at 336 Foothill

Road. The guard at the parking lot identified two of the

four men as RICHARD BARGER and JAMES MANN who are employed

in the Real Estate Department of Litton Systems working

under JACK COGAN.. The guard did not know the identity of the

Coat te

other two men.

JOHN C. HAGERMAN, former FBI Agent and now a security

manager for Litton Systems, advised 2/4/64 that RICHARD BARGER

3-Bureau

-]-Las Vegas. (Info)

1-Los Angeles

HFD/ajw

(5)

ST-107

92-52670556

RECO

- XEROX

FEB 14 1964

• FEB 12 1964

Approved: 152 1A1

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

NW 45945 DocId:32298644 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 92-113

was formerly employed by Hughes Aircraft and was recommended

to Litton Systems by Claire Peck who is the owner of a

large construction company. HAGERMAN said that some of the

officials of the Litton company were not too pleased with

the hiring of BARGER. HAGERMAN said he "wouldn't trust BARGER

at all."

HAGERMAN said that he is not acquainted with JAMES MANN

and knows nothing about him.

He said that JACK COGAN. is a former employee of CIA,

and is a "wheeler and a dealer."

HAGERMAN said that he would conduct inquiries,

which he could do readily in line with his employment, to

identify the two men who were with BARGER and MANN and that he

would further be able to ascertain the nature of their business

dealings with Litton Systems.

He added that he could easily

do this without revealing that the FBI was interested in the

matter.

As of this date HAGERMAN has not advised the Los Angeles

Office of the results of his inquiries.

On 2/3/64 and 2/4/64

PCI, advised that

MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN, B. FRANK WILLIAMS, J. MENDOZA, Mr. and

Mrs. WILSON,

and T.

W. RICHARDSON came

to the Beverly Crest

Hotel, Beverly Hills,

California on Sunday, 2/2/64.

_FRIEDMAN,

WILLIAMS and RICHARDSON have interests in the Hotel Last

Frontier Corporation, and WILSON and MENDOZA, according to

are attorneys.

Istated that these people are

involved in negotiations with the Holiday Inns, Inc., concerning

the building of a new hotel in Las Vegas.

further stated that FRIEDMAN left for New

York City on the evening of 2/3/64 but made no mention as to when

he would return.

On 2/4/64 Information was obtained from the

Los Angeles Police Department, Intelligence Division,

Airport

Detail, that MORRIE FRIEDMAN and A. MILIER left Los Angeles

together on TWa, Flight No. 2, at 10:30 PM on 2/3/64 for New

York City.

It is believed that A. MILLER IS ARLINE MILLER, a

girl friend of FRIEDMAN.

OTHER 4

- 2

HW 45945

DocId: 32298644

Page 3

---

