# 104-10110-10176

## Page 1

104-10110-10176

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CONFIDENTIAL

43872

26 Novembeli

• 1969

MEMORANDUM POR!

'Bädge Office

SUBJECT

Request for Agency Identification Card

NAME®

DAVID L• CHRIST

INCLUSIVE DATA December 1969

PHYSICAL DATA

Age

Height

Weight:

Byes

51

Б'

190

Cray:.

BrOWD

CIA Tont Card 1o. 15403Hatr

Date Issued 112/8/6

Expiration Date-

Date Returned

Rocorol fire Pria

orpico.:

December 1979

03

02300

Richard P.:

0 Brien

Security Officer

ORD/ DD/S&T.

Att:

i ID Card

CONFIDENTIAL

GROUP!

Excluded hon aalcaate

Get 2ng and

dislicaitlesilan

---

## Page 2

4-00000

:'

ACACHISIMANSE IRDEARAL USÈ

uaanedy

1 8 JUL 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM:

Bruce L. Solie

Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT:

CHRIST, David Lamar

#43 872

1.

This memorandum identifies those Office of Security

files which were reviewed by House Select Committee on

Assassinations (HSCA) staff members in conjunction with the

HSCA's investigation into the deaths of President John F.

Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

2.

Under procedures established with the HSCA, certain

items of information were not reviewed by HSCA staff members.

These items were placed in envelopes, sealed, appropriately

identified, and put back into the security file prior to

HSCA review. Office of Security personnel reviewing these

files should maintain the integrity of each envelope below

so that interested parties may know what was and was not

3.

• In some instances, the above files contain material

marked in the lower right-hand corner with a green circular

dot.

This mark should alert Office of Security personnel to

the fact that this material was located and placed in the

file at the time of the HSCA review and was seen by an HSCA

staffer(s). This material should not be removed from the

: file.

Attached to this menorandum is a review sheet hich

identifies the name of the HSCA reviewer(s) and the daté of

his review.

Questions regarding the above procedure and/or the

HSCA's review should be directed to the Security Analysis

Group.

APPANVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Bruce L. Solie

Attachment

ГЕСЕССЕСТЕРЕССОССАСЕРОЙИГЕАСААГЕБІВЕНТЬ СОБІПОБРЕСЕДСЕРПЕКРЕГ ОСВОГОБЕ!

LENBELKATHEEGEEPLGINDEEEECLFEHESGELULCAKTESCGELGCGDEKGNFNEGONCENCIENGECRLEE

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 3

4-00000

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF ME

BORS

FILE TITLE/ NUMBER/VOLUME:

• DAvid

43 872

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

Aus Mie - Tire 19 TA

OSI SAG

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

ROOM:

Neric

DATE

RECEIVED

2/8/78

DATE

RETURNED

2/6/78

REVIEWED BY

SIGNATURE OF

(PRINT NAME)

REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DaN HArdway DamHardwag,

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CHA HISTORICAL DEVIN PROGRAM

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 4

4-00000

WATERGATE FILE REVIEW FLAG

SUBJECT: CHRIST, David Inmar

FILE NO: C-413872

DATE FLAGGED: 20 June 1974

This file has been reviewed for materials relating to Watergate.

Any necessary reporting has been forwarded through Office of Security

channels to the Office of the Inspector General.

File Cross Reference - 625000

To Files 21 June 1974

Reviewed in re:

Officer Reviening File

DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY THIS FLAG WITHOUT THE CONCURRENCE OF THE

DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

---

## Page 5

4-00000

Sofit 2, 1971

Mr. Robert S. Wattles

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

Dear Mr. Wattles:

I have reviewed all documentation in my possession or

custody and hereby certify that I have no classified documents

belonging to the Central Intelligence Agency or other classi-

fied material relating to the national defense in my possession

or custody, and that arrangements have been made to have

delivered to the custody of the United States Government any

such material which I may heretofore have retained.

Sincerely,

Haved 1 Chast

David L. Christ

APPROVED FOR RELEASE, 1095

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROCRAN

---

## Page 6

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SẮF

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

1-8 DEG 1970

NO.

INV 43 872

:2. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTN

FIS LAST NAME. FIRST. MIDDLE

CHRIST, David Lamb

17-10

6. FULL NAME OF SPOUSE. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH. CITIZENSHIP:

đ nh

Christ, Wilma M.

Nee: Zimmernan

DFOB: Approx. 29

20 Jan: 18, Tanagus, Fenns.

5. CITIZENSHIP

7. OTHER PERTINENT INFORMATION. INCLUDING FULL NAME, CITIZENSHIP DATA CN PARENTS:

B. MILITARY (BRANCH, SERIAL NO... DATES OF SERVICE: RANK/GRADE)

FROM

EDUCATION

NAME OF SCHOOL

-

DESREE OR MAJOR

110.

FROM

Oct 70

Oct 50

FROM

Mey 63

TO

Present

EMPLOYMENT

NAME OF EMPLOYER

Devenco, Inc., Research & Devei.

Div.

Oct 70

3

US Cov't

30. ПТр 1570

201-788-441 part 284

201-86634.

COMPLETE ANDPESS

TO

Present

6212 Maiden Lene, Bethesda, MD

I CONTINUED

COMPLETE ADDRESS

150 Broadway, NYC., I. Y.

CONTINUED

SONI

convour dutamalic

•pelassificatian

CONTINUrO

• 4. 43

FOR:A 180A

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

---

## Page 7

4-00000

UBJECT::

V

SECRET

(When Filled In)

TRANSMITTAL OF INVESTIGATIVE REPORTS

: Chief, Personnel Security Division

D. I Chist

NAME CHECK RESULTS (See attachments)

COVERAGE

ATH: Chief, Glearance Branch JHP

43872

TIX -REPORT

DEROG.

COMPLETE NAME CHECKS

PARTIAL NAME CHECKS

MILITARY SERVICE

IME CHECKS INCLUDE INVESTIGATIVE REPORTS BY

FIELD RESULTS (See attachments)

COV. BY

TWX

REPORT

DEROG.

STATUS OF CASE

OTHER MATERIAL PREVIOUSLY FORWARDED

CLOSED

CLOSED PREVIOUSLY

CANCELLED

PENDING

PENDING COVERAGE AND/OR REMARKS

PHS ATTACHED

ATE

FROM: Chief, Investigation Division

Bl Dee 70

42 1230 UsE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS.

•SEORET

13 K

---

## Page 8

4-00000

073872

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

I acknowledge my formal designation as an Erneigency

Courier. I have carefully read the above memorandum. I am

familiar with the provisions of Agency regulations and I am fully

aware of my responsibilities as an emergency courier of '

-

compartmented information. I have been advised this designation

applies only to the Washington Metropolitan Area and all other

requirements to transport compartmented inaterial outside this

arca require prior approval of the Office of Security.

Alasia 1 Christ.

Signature

David i. Christ

Printed Name

---

