# 104-10406-10079

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10406-10079

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ne followin

utborIz GLASSIFIED MESSAGI

itE

NECRETE

sagned:

TO

: DIRECTOR

BERN

FROM

R.O. #2-086 C/RYA

rote:

II destruction, cite

• ACTIONS

C/EE 3 (EE NOTIFIED AND COPS OSB9 02531290V)

INFO & DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/SR 5, D/OS 2, VR

2

31

5A

Lick

ROUTING

41

1.5

•ATE

OUFING

26770063

o5, 72,97, VK

SECRET 201997Z

'BOY

26H0v 631N68344

INNEDIATE DIR INFO IMMEDIATE GNVA

CITE BERN 2493

THAT KUDESK INK

CLASGIELCATION FIXIE Y976

CONDUCTED ON.

REF FERN 2495 (1468313)

E_ IMPDET CL BY 0I 2208

1' FOLL STATION COMMENTS RE

SUBSTANCE PARA 3 REF BASED

EXAMINATION OF REF "EMO AND INANITION 6) TELEPHONE ANSWERS

jor. FOlA Review on

TO ELMARD QUERIES.

2; DELICATE SOURCE REFERRED TO IS TAP OF GIBSON PHONE?

APR 1976

IN LALSANNE APPARENTLY UNDERTAKEN BY LAUSANNE

POLICE/PTT AT INANITION

REQUEST. EXISTENCE TAP NOI FREVIOUSLY KNOWN TO STATION. APPEARS

LIKELY IT UNDERTAKEN IN RESPONSE TO STATION REQUEST FOR INFO RE

GIESON IN CONNECT ION "REVOLUTION" MAGAZINE AND HIS AND ITS

CONNECTIONS TO CHICOMS SUISSE, OR TO GATHER DATA TO REPLY TO ODENVY

REP REQUEST FOR INFO. ANTICIPATE CAN CLARIFY THIS POINT IN TALK WITH

INANITION 6) ON 27 NOVEMBER.

3.: IN ANSWER TO ELMARD QUERIES INANITION S STATED TAP INFO

PROVIDED BY AN UNIDENIIFIED INANITION INSPECTOR", THAT UNKNOWN PARTY

IN CONVERSATION WAS NOT NATIVE FRENCH SPEAKER, PROBABLY NOT A SWISS,

PROBAELY A FOREICNER. INANITION 6' PROMISED CHECK WITH INANITION

INSPECT OR

AND HAVE, TAPE CHECKED FOR POSSILE FURTHER CLUES TO

IDENTITY SPEAKER:

201-289248

t6 li

0:200-5-41

200-5-41

SECRET

RETRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

tacluded trem nur

doungroding ons

destonitcasion

Copy No.

Documen: Number

---

## Page 2

13-00000

To +067495555 st: +75377901

my....

• CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN/83+4 PAGE 2

4.

APPEARS CLEAP GIBSON REFERENCE THROUGHOUT CONVERSATION

IS TO ACTIVITIES OF FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE WHITH WHICH HE

AND OSWALD ASSOCIATED.

S.. CAN NOT IDENTIFY PERSON IN NEW YORK REFERRED TO AS "LY"

(MORE PROBABLY LEE) PHONETIC.

POSSIBLE THIS COULD 3E

REFERENCE TO LEE OSWALD BUT FROM CONTXT THIS SEEMS UNLIKELY.

6.: CAN NOT IDENTIFY PERSON REFERRED TO AS "TIBOR" (PHONETIC).

7. FROM CONVERSATION CONTENI CAN NOT IDENTIFY OT HER CALLER...

SPECULATIVE COMMENTS BELOW. MAY BE ABLE IDENTIFY OR MAKE BETTER

MYPOKESIS AFTER TALK WITH INANITIONS 'RE DETAILS OF PHONE TAP

COVERAGE INCLUDING WHERE UNKNOWN SPEAKER APPARENTLY LOCATED.

8..: CLOSE ASSOCIATE GIBSON IS FREDY GILBERT NILS ANDERSON,

BORN. 14 FEBRUARY 33, LAUSANNE, SWEDISH NATIONAL, LAUSANNE RESIDENT,

EDITOR- PUS ISHER. SEE ATT TO ESBA 12659 FOR FURTHER INFO

INCL CONTACTS TO CHICOMS BERN AND PEIPING. POSSIBLE THESE TWO .

MEN WOULD CONVERSE IN FRENCH BUT ENGLISH WOULD BE MORE LIKELY LANGUAGE.

9. POSSIBILITY OTHER CONVERSATION PARTNER IS JACQUES VERGES,

COMMUNIST, FORMER DIRECTOR OF LA REVOLUT ION AFRICAINE, NOW BASED

"PARIS.

NOTE VERGES CLOSELY ASSOCIATED. WITH CHICOM LINE IN FRANCE AND

IN SUISSE, HAS BEEN IN CONTACI WITH SWISS "CHINESE COMMUNIST"

SPLINTER PARTY CENTERED VEVEY. VERGES, ANDERSON AND GIBSON

ASSOCIATED NEW ISSUE OF MAGAZINE PRINTED IN MONTREUX.

PUS ICATION NOW BEARS TITLE "REVOLUTION", SUBTITLE "AFRICA, :

LATIN AMERICA, ASIA "• EDITIONS IN SPANISH, FRENCH,

ENQ ISH.

1?. IN ANSWER ELMARD QUERY INANITION & STATED PHONE COVERAGE

OF GIESE CONTINUES AND

PROMISED ARRANGE

PASSAGE CONTENT TO STATION

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE:

(

IN 68344PAGE 3

AND ENVY REP ON PRIORITY BASIS.. WILL DISCUSS DETAILS AT 27

NOVEMBER MEET.

BI. INANITION 6. INDICATED REFERENCE TO LIMIT SET FOR

GIBSON DEPARTURE FROM SUISSE BEFORE 15 DECEMBER 63 REFERS TO

SWISS DECISION NOT TO RENEW HIS RESIDENCE PERMIT BEYOND

THAT DATE. WILL CLARIFY AT 27 NOVEMBER NEET.

120 KUBARK ONLY: ODENVY REP BERN CARLING HIS HQS MOST IF NOT ALL

OF INANITION MEMOS REF. IN INTERESTS SPEED STATION OFFERED HANDLE

AY TRAFFIC KE WISHED ORIGINATE BUT HE PREFERRED HANDLE VIA HIS

PRIVACY CHANNEL. NOT AWARE WHAT COMMENTS HE MAY MAKE RE CONTENT

OF INANITION REPORT. ESSENCE BUT NOT ALL DETAILS ABOVE INFO GIVEN

TO HIM ORALLY IN DISCUSSION PRIOR TO DISPATCH REF AND THIS CABLE.

HE PRESENT DURING ELMARD PHONE TALK WITH INANITION 6. WILL

CONTINUE FULL CORDINATION WITH HIM RE REF MATTER.

13. KUBARK ONLY: AS HINTED IN

INANIT ION MEMO AND ORALLY

BY INANITION 6 TO ELMARD, INANITION WORRIED RE POSSIBIL IT Y

ODENVY MIGHT FEEL UNDER SUCH PRESSURE RE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

THAT SOMEHOW IT WOULD LEAK INFORE GIBSON AND OSWALD CONTACT IN

MANNER WHICH WOULD EXPOSE SWISS TAP OF GISSON PHONE AND PASSAGE OF:

INFO TO FOREIGN POWER (MEMORIES OF DUEOIS AFFAIR REMAIN). BELIEVE

WE CAN OSTAIN ALL INFO FROM PHONE,) OR ANY OT HER COVERAGE

OF GIBSON OR ASSOCIATES AND PROBABLY GET ACCESS TO ORIGINAL

(TAPES) AS LONG AS QUESTIONS OF "COURT RECORDS" OR "EVIDENCE" ARE

SOFT PEDALLED.

14. ANOTHER CABLE FOLLOWS.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *RE GIBSONS ASSOCIATION WITH "FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE" AND ALSO

WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD.

201-2892448

200-5-41

---

