# 104-10121-10087

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10121-10087

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Ruth PrivE

O SEE

ATtached

@ ALSO REFERE tO

FRI apTs cita: 918+9/24156

Tithe : Sylvin Ludlew

Hyde Hott

(57 - 204; 5-1-54)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

348201

5 December 1963

Files

Cuter, Research Eranch /08/SRS

PATTE, Futh

JER:

IDE

1...

To file a Sulus

indicatoke

#1458301

I. NI, CrogaT, FBI, On 1 Deeenber 1963 confined that the Subject

10 the daupater of Million Avery HYDE, S0D-157735-

Preyes. was linisbed

a copy of tho 1557 investizatire reports on lIllian HIDE for lead purposes

only and 1ns Inforned that WIllian IDE vas uder consideration for a

covert use by this Agency in Viet len in 195% but Jas not used. (This

Information bad previously been obtaired broa ducar selza, (I/3IE).

2. Subject is the indiridual who is talung core or the widen of

LEd HarTey Ostald and has apparently been quite vell brom to the widow

of Ice barTey Oswald and possidly lde lsrvey Orwald for an undeterined

paried of time. Tie posalbillty that Million Avery HIDS 5a3 the Tatbor

of Futh PAINE VaS IterIously brought to the attention of M. Papica

througa vt- Q'Teal, CI/SIO- The SecurIty fIle Of WILlIaN HYDE costalas

a copy of a 1956 FBI Investigative Report (SCURIlY OF COVARDENT IMPIAYINE,

on Sylvia lanier 10x, aks: Krs- John Ii. AOlBy Dee: SylriE Ludlow JYDIs, 1bo

Is the sIster ot TitA PAINE. Me ILlo Of WIllian AUDE also contalas ar:1956

aSI report on Sylria sOKt.

3. In eddition to the above, 1t ves previously knon thet lllten

Avery EVD& and vife CITOl IDE FETa espociates 11 ile Inte 1920'3 and

Inter of Ialbot BIETAPELI, 129931, who 1o currently engloyed by this

Agency In FDD. A certais amount of inforation oncerning willtan FIDE,

carol. ids, and otber associates of INDE and SlEseMl during the Latter

1920's ins furalthed by Talbot BIRLaMELY during Interniesy several rears

290-

At that tiac te BILIST Case was under extensive Investigation.

Erice L- Solle

tas.

Excivi

---

