# 104-10146-10080

## Page 1

104-10 146-10080

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

-.

OGC 79-1368

8 Fek

-Ary 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR : Office of Legislative Counsel

ATTENTION

: Scott Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator, HSCA

FROM

: Richard L. Rininger

Assistant General Counsel

SUBJECT

: DCI Options Relative to HSCA Report

Content

REFERENCE

:

OLC 79-0113/8, Dated 5 Feb 1979, Subject:

House Select Committee on Assassinations

References to Overseas CIA Stations

OLE +79-113/1

This Office has reviewed your draft memorandum

including the options to be presented to the DCI.

We have no objection to the options presented.

this regard, query whether it would be appropriate at this

point to include your opinion as to the possible follow-on

steps which might be necessary if option (c) is selected and

the HSCA resists that decision.

3.

We do suggest several editorial changes to the

memorandum. First, you might consider inserting a new

paragraph 2, to make the basic issue known more quickly.

Perhaps the following would be suitable:

2. Background: The material which the HSCA

presently contemplates publishing on an unclassified

basis will reveal

the existence

of CIA stations in

Mexico City, Tokyd and Helsinki?

4. Several other suggested changes are pencilled on a

copy of your draft memo, attached.

5. Please advise if we can be of further assistance.

Dits I'*

Richard L. Rininger

Att

SECRET

DERIVATIVE OL BY 236 161

O DECLIENT ON EEB. 1985

DENIEDIUS EXC 24-0113/8566/979

22484

---

