# 104-10063-10166

## Page 1

1104-10063-101666

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

• 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DA DECAI

VLAR

NUMBER

DÒC. 1.0.

NEW DOCURLTMCIRD

90 i

81/82 83 84

$351

007121

Insteursions for firsions ond Stulls:

1. Fill in and Sign on line 11.

2. U. e back of form for ony additionul

DOCUMENT DESCRIFTION (Circle if appropriate) (30 CHARACTERS)

DAY

TEAN

CABLE

FORM

19-3

DISPATCH

LETTER

MEMO

AIRGRAM

STOC -1507

16 MAY 73

FROM/ORIGINATOR 130 CHARACTERS)

TO/ RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS)

STOCKHOLM) 14=3

CLASS

WHERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS)

REFERRED

BY (10 CHARACTERS)

HEADQUARTERS

DDO ?

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS)

MHOURB RYBAT MACHAOS

(TIRISK-D KNOWS NOTHING RE

POSSIBILITY HIJACKERS

TYPE

DATE

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

OF

OF

REVIEW

REVIEW

NOW IN SWEDER

Determinations:

A. Release in full text

B. Release in sanitized form

C. Deny in toto

D. Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

E. Sustain initial denial in toto

F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized

version

G. Release additional information

H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DEFER DECISION TO 110 CHARACTERS) COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTEFS) CLASS

SIGNATURE OF DO/IMS/FPLE REVIEWING OFFICER

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)

FOlA

B1 B2 B3 B4 B5 B6 B7C

В 11 UPA

1I KI

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

E.0. 12356

1. Classification

2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

3. Information pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify the

source

5. Information pertaining to a source

6. Information pertaining to intelligence methods

7. Location

of CIA overseas installation

8. Location

of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9.

Name

of CIA employee

10. File number

11. Pseudonym

12. Cryptonym

13. Internal organizational data

14.

Name

of an

FBI agent

15.

FBI file number

16.

Privacy of other individual

17.

19.

Does not pertain

to request

Other (Specify in line 1l)

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(k) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(i) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(i) (1)

(b) (3)

(i) (1)

(b) (3)

(i) (1)

(b) (3)

(i) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b)

(3)

(1) (1)

(b) (7) (c) (j) (1)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

(10)

REMARKS UF OTHER HAS CHECAED AROVEI AO CHARACTERS)

11

12

HSCA

13

3MV

141

Roy It 10.;

ATLE OFFICE OF 14

DININE REVIENING OFFIGES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

2

Pii лок

---

## Page 2

14-00000

I 243341

SEG RET

-=-

HOMOLING

PAGE 01-a1

AGENCY MESSAGE

W 11815

STOC 150T

SECRET 1OLA3SZ MAY IS RESTRIGTED HANDLING

сітЕ втоскної» ібаї

TOI HEADQUARTERS;

NHỢURB BYBẠI MHCHAOS

REFÉ HEADQUARTERS 4592, 3 May 73

1, QUERIED (LRISKOL)ABQUT POSSIBTLITTE MIJACKERS NOW IN SMEDEN:

HE KNEW NOTHING BUT WILL REER EARS OPEN,

?, BELIEVE BEST CHANGE PROVIDE REF PARA & INFORMATION iS tO

QUERY GiBLOCK) CANTIBLOCK BE DIVEN REF PARA & NAMES AND BE iNFORMED

HE HÄVE REASON BELIEVE HIJACKERS COMING SHEDEN? EL IMPDET

E2 IMPDET WN-SISM

CL BY 059876

....

SEGRET

1121

---

## Page 3

14-00000

AGENCY MESSÄGE

¡ 243341

MAMOLING

PAGE 0i•a1

N 11815

stoc isa?

SECRET MOLASSA MAY ?O RESTRiCTED HANDLING

Bite (rock hoLd) 1507

TOI HEADQUARTERS;

MHCURE RYBAT MUCHAOS

REFS HEADQUARTERS 4502" 3 May 73

I QUERIED GIRTSK I ABOUT POSSIBILITY HACKERS NOW iN SWEDEN.

HE KNEN NOTHING BUT WILL KEEP EARS OPEN.

Z, BELIEVE BEST CHANCE PROVIDE REE PARA & INFORMATION IS TO

QUERY BLOCK CAN (PIBLOCK) BE GIVEN REF PARA & NAMES AND BE iNFORMED

WE HÄVE REASON BELIEVE HIJACRERS COMING SWEDEN? ER IMPDET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

E2 IMPDET WN-SISM

CL BY 059876

Dup oF

7/21

ind.

113

SECRET

4/PV

---

