# 104-10169-10143

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10169-10143

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

ISE ONLY

O CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEE.

SUBJECT: (Optionall

ABTADLE/1 Chance Meting with Petr DERYABIN

FROM:

Chief, SR/CT

O: (Oner denignatica, tons aumber, ea

DATE

MAICER!

PONMARDEO

•AELASIES

201

Or1gin9a1-201-294-859

N

на

DATE

• SECRET

SR/CI IZ Report #25

12 January 1962

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

19.

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE

ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

8+0 1091-6-851810

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

...

8R/CI 12 $25

HEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: AELADLE/1 Chance Meeting WIth Petr DERYABIN

.

si articer assigned to the ANTADLES

has reported that on Saturday, 6 Jauuary 1902, be and one. of the

Bacurity Officera accompanied AFLADLE/1 to Ray's Barber Shop ir

Vienna,

Virginia for a haircut.

Upon leaving the barber shop at

about 1730 hours, they accidentally not Petr DERYABIN uho vas

walking in the opposite direction. DERYABIN recognized ASIADLE/I

Instantly, and the tro shock bands and greeted each other enthusi;

Ratically. DERYABIN inquired about ABLADLE/l'8 family, and ASLADLE/1

auld that they were well and vere with him. AbLADLE/l asked

DERYABIN 1f he bad sarried, to which DERYABIN replied that he bad,

and that as of the day before yesterday he vas the proud father of

& BOn. DERLARIN presented a cigar to each of the others.

DERYABIN

aubed NrI

"When will all this be in the newspapers?" Mr.

021

replied that be didn't knov. Mr

congratulated

DERYABIN on the birth of his son and tom um and AFLADLS/1 that

the street corner vas not an appropriato place to talk. The othere

aeroed, and they parted.

reports that during the encounter, no one

addressed or referred to anyone by name, hence neither DERYABIN

nOT AFIADLE/1 are avare of the other's current name of preciso

rbereabouts.

stole.

EDHARD W. KNOWLES

Chiof, SRiCI

Diptribution:

lor1gan1al - 201-2914, 855

1 - Chief, SR

Chief, SR/CI

DC/CI

201-228,022 (DEPYABIN,

1 - RECORD COFT-LE Report Chrono (Rt #74-6-496/4)

SECRET.

---

