# 104-10186-10342

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10342

.

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENLE AGENCY

18. US C

A and de the Unrealedra de torpialion d third la mes 1arzer en an unauthoriend petana la prohliant de lau

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEX

COUNTAY Cuba

ДЕРОЯТ NO.

SUBECT. Oreste VARELA (allay "Odon")

DATE DiTTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS CI-316/00630-65

10 February 1965

1

CSCI-316/00253-64

21 July 1961

DATE OF 1964

RETURN TO CIA

INFO.

Washington, D. C.

PLACE &

Background Use Only

DATE ACO. December 1965

Do Not Reproduce

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INCORNATION. SOVACE GRADINGS ARE SEMINITIVR APPRAISAl Of CONTENT IS TENTAME

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headguarters Comments

The following report is one of a

series containing personality

Information provided by the source

and includes supplemental

informntion from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in

the

personality reports wihhout

first checking with this Agency.

1. Oreste VARELA, alias "Odon," is the Argentine desk officer

In the Direccion General de Inteligracia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI).

15 a captain in the

Cuba was former adie onound avana eLd

the Sierra Mnestra.

VARELA, a Caucasian,

was born

about 1930, is five feet

cight Inches

tall, weighs

150 pouads, and has short, brown tair.I

Headquarters Comments

1. Aside frou the information forwarded in the above referenced

report, this Agency has no additional identifiable inforsation

On VARELA.

5

3

2

5

4

3

2

4/06

NO FOREIGN DUSSEY

STATE

REP

I ARMY

1 NAVY

AIR

CINCLANT CINCSO E

T&NS

More: Field distribution indicatad dr "$=.)

NS1

TXXX™

I OCR

FSI 2

CINFORMATONAREPORLM

NI SA/EOR_1

WELS/R

NIL SA/MORI HEMLIDA

12, CI/R&A

NEFAR A

- 15г

RIDIAN

RIL NIKE

PJS"' WH/SA 8 WE WE 1 CI CIA, RIDI

NEARMA WON REPORT

HIEZCANARL

UFGA 19020(930064)

NO PROJECT (LYMUG/1)

Lu MASH, Sadli

CSCI-310:8:130-85

CCORDIMATINE

9I-509p8

L1A1209 +

This Pist

---

