# 104-10142-10055

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10142-10055]

^ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

: J-22

8 C

77-0007116

Chione

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Friday -ll February 1977

Page 5

19. (Unclassified - LJK) ADMINISIRATIVE DELIVERIES

Delivered to Charles Snodgrass, House Appropriations Committee

and Chief of

Flynt (D., Go.) and J. Kenneth Robinson (R., Va.) for their

use in an upcoming trip to the above locations.

20. (Corfidential - LIK) LIAISON Met with James Fellenbaum,

Schate Appropriations Committee staff, to discuss the FX78 budget.

Fellenbaum indicated that the Senate Appropriations Committee

would have to treat the issue of intelligence-reiated costs due to

the fact that the House Appropriations Committee has shown

such interest in this matter. I informed him that the House

Appropriations Committee is scheduling a hearing un intelligence-

related costs on 8 March 1977.

Fellenbaum also said that it appears Senator William W.

Proxmire (D., Wis.) and Senator Clifford P. Case (R., N.J.)

will join the Intelligence Subcommittee of Senate Appropriations

Committee.

21. (Unclassified - ILM) LIAISON Advised Art Kuhl,

Senate Foreign Relations Committee staff, of the number of Agency

employees covered by the upcoming foreign service list to be submitted

to the Senate.

The information was supplied by Iom Carney, COS.

22. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Spoke with Paul Daly: FBI,

on the present: state of affairs with respect to the House Select Committer

on Assassinations. Daly advised that al the request of Chairman Henry B.

Gonzalez (D., Texas) to the Attorney General the Committee staffers will

no longer be provided access to the unclassified material they have been

reviewing within the Department of Justice.

Daly is hopeful thai Chairman Consalez will approve the security

clearance standards and once this is in notion the first clearances should

start coming through in about 30 days. I asked Daly to keep us advised as

to the piogress on the clearances matter to pave the way for our next

coordinated step within the Executive Branch to scek Chairman Gonzalex'a

aid Ropiesentative Samuel I. Devine's (R., Ohio) agreement on procedures

for access ic classified information.

20117

MITERNAL USE ONLY

---

