# 104-10216-10335

## Page 1

14-00000

7 104-10216-10335

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

palerties

cant.

Joll sherwood

C1 WH/C/a1

• AD2

6172

LENO INOEX

DATE: 25 March 1965

DO FILE IN OS FRE NO

10 : MADRID

FROM DIRECTOR

cons. WH/C8

MESSAGE FORM 7

SECRET

ROUTING

5

FI

et3 5 t23 65 is

12:

Do R, File, DDP, WE 6, FI, FID4, CHloA, ClORS, ORSE EV

MADR

IN0.

KEYWAY PBRUMEN QUHOPS

REF DIR 85574*

CITE DIR

S

ALLASH-1:

fie

96056

e

1. HOS PLANNING FOR Q-I DIRECTED TO MAXIMAL AND MINIMAL

GOALS BOTH OF WHICH SUBTENDED BY ONE BASIC FACT, L E.. TO BE

EFFECTIVE Q-1 MUST BE AS THOROUGHLY TRAINED IN TRADECRAFT AND

CLANDESTINE COMMUNICATIONS AS IS HUMANLY POSSIBLE BEFORE HE

DEPART'S MADR. GENERAL OUTLINE THIS PROBLEM IN PARA THREE BELOW.

2. MAXIMUM GAIN FROM Q-I WOULD BE CONVERT HIM INTO INTERNAL

COMMUNICATOR FOR AMLASH, PROPERLY TRAINED AND EQUIPPED Q-1

COULD SERVE AS BASIS FOR REALISTIC EXPLOITATION AMLASH-I POTENTIAL.

HOS BEGGING NO QUESTIONS BE AMLASI, SIMPLE FACT IS SUBARK HAS YET

• TO GRAPPLE WITH SUCH BASIC PRAGMATICS OF AMLASH PROBLEM AS WHO

•IS WHERE, WHO CAN DO WHAT. WHAT ARE AMLASH'S MATERIEL AND OTHER

BASIC NEEDS, ETC. INTENSIVE SYSTEMATIC INTERROGATION Q-I THESE

MAITERS WITH RESULTS KEYED TO HIS ROLE AS COMMO LINK TO ODYOKE

AFFORDS SOUND OPPORTUNITY PUT AMLASH IN BUSINESS OR LAY MYTH TO

REST FOR GOOD. OBVIOUSLY THESE INTERROGATION TRAINING PLANNING

_ COPROIMATIMO OFFICEE

AUTI

SECRET

CATING

Cony Na

arappucTIoN iy OTHER ThAN THEISSUNG OffiCE IS iRONaIvEd

---

## Page 2

14-00000

003.

MESSAGE FORM

SECREI

ROUTING

5

D NO NOX

OH NO MA

FROM DIRECTOR

DIFO

PAGE TWO

10

8E0,

CoRE DiR

9605%

SESSIONS WOULD BE INTEGRATED AND PURSUED SIMULTANEOUSLY BY

Q-1 CASE OFFICER,

3. MINIMUM AIM WOULD BE SOUND STEADY FLOW INSTANT INFO FROM

WELL PLACED INSIDE ASSET. THIS GOAL WELL WORTH MAJOR KUBARK OPS

EFFORI. CHANCES VERY GOOD THAT HARD LEAN ON Q-1 RE AMLASH

Due WOULD EXPOSE ETHEREAL NATURE AMLASH PLANS AND ACTIVITIES. A

WORTHY GAIN PER SE AND AN EXCELLENT VEHICLE FOR TRAINING Q-I IN

PITFALLS TO BE MET IN DEALING FELLOW CUBANS IF HE RETURNS AS

SINGLETON WI AGENT.

1 COMMO TRAINING: THIS MOST COMPLEX MATTER SINCE MORE

THAN HALF THE WISDOM NECESSARY TO DO JOB GOES BEYOND MERE

TECHNICAL, ASPECTS OF GRASPING MEDIUM SPEED TRANSMISSION, OWVE SW,

MICRODOI. PROPER STAGING THIS TECHNICAL TRAINING DEMANDS FULL

TIME CASE OFFICER PARTICIPATION TO ADVISE ON INNUMERABLE

TRADECRAFT ASPECTS OF COMMO. WHEN, WHERE, HOW OFTEN TO SEND

AND RECEIVE, WHERE AND HOW TO CACHE GEAR, TYPES AND AMOUNTS

OF KEY TEXT, SW MATERIALS, HOW GEAR IS TO BE CONCEALED FOR

RETURN TRIP, RESUPPLY ARE SAMPLES OF CRITICAL QUESTIONS WHIC:

DOBDINATINO OUTIGER

ICER

SECRET

AUTHENICATING

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFIC: IS PROMIBITED

Cogn Na.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ORiGI

4208 .

EXT .

DATE.

10 .

FROM DIRECTOR

COME.

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

ROUTING

5

O NDEX

I NO DUDEX

O FUR IN ES NU NO.

PAGE THREE

CITE DIR

BEST ANSWERED ON BASIS OF GIVE AND TAKE BETWEEN AGENI, CASE

OFFICER WITH FIRSTHAND KNOWLEDGE HOW SUCH MATTERS HAVE BEEN

HANDLED IN PAST. HOS AND WAVE EXPERIENCE HAS DEMONSTRATED

CLEARLY THAT COMMO OP STAGING CUBA CANNOT BE ADEQUATELY

COMPLETED BY PERSONS WHO HAVE NOT HAD DIRECT INTENSIVE

EXPERIENCE IN ALL PHASES OPS COMMO.

5. HOS FEELS THAT THE SEVERITY OF THE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS,

DEPTH OF THE INTERROGATION-BRIEFING PROBLEM, SET AGAINST A TIME-

SHORTAGE ARGUES FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF A CASE OFFICER WHO

NOT ONLY

GUT ALSO

FULLY EXPERIENCED EASEE CUBAN OPS MATTERS JED CLANDESTINE

WE HAVE FELO PECUMAR TO CURRÊNT GES SIQUATION.

COMMUNICATIONS, J0S ESSENTSDeRNT-WEEKS-HAG

I§S PREPARED

PROVIDE OFFICER WITH THIS EXPERIENCE

SUOGAESTHLDY DIPAGHED ANOOZE ASA SINGLETOKWI AGENT INDISE

DESIRED PLS ADVISE

ркілІту.

- STAGIC

*TO

77 8H12X:51

28K9,

_ESSARIRATINA OPPIESA

SECRET

PRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Cary Ma

---

## Page 4

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

ROUTING

I NO DEX

DATE.

TOM DIRECTOR

PAGE FOUR

OTE DiE

86056

TM ernes

END OF MESSAGE

# SHOULD READ DIR 95574.

MLLIAM D. O'RYAN

C/WE

8N9 09T88S

WE/S_

Filer I staur

GOONBINATINE OVUICEN

DESMOTO CERALD

C/WHD

20001

AUTWI

ICATING

SECRET

MEPRODUETIÓNDY OTHER THAN IHE ISSUING ONIC. I PROHIBITED.

Coon Mo

:

---

