# 104-10175-10010

## Page 1

-00000

104-10175-10010

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFICATION

!??

TRANSMITTAL

OF

JOES INFORMATION REPORT

ORIG.

UNIT

EXS.

3623

DATE

E MoRanBAr 1961

CONFIRMATION COP:ES

15

INFORMATION COPIES

ROUTiNG

CI/OPS, CI/IC, PI, FI/D, 71/IIT 5, IN 2, GA 2, CA/F03.

DATE DISTRIBUTED

DISSEMINATION

i Mi/Exac 1 SB/Rep.

сти /глод:

#i H/cA/Pros1

2

IH/ MOXI:

1

1ih/1/7 | 1

TH/PiCY. 2 J/3/M

2

2

EVALUATION

REQUESTED

STATE

OF

ARMY

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

KAVY

AlR

SECRET

(Woes Fried la)

190

her 8 21

55261

TDCS-3/492,573

...d.

PRECSDENCE

ROUTINE

LASED ON (Fid. Rfl., Proj.)

LOXI 9346 (18 19132)

LEXI 9348 (IN 19339)

KIL'-6003

LIAISCY *

NOFORT/CONTINLED CONTROL

RETURN TO CI

Background Us

De Not f

DD/P. INTERNAL USE ONLY

IUTMENTICATNE OFFICER

COOXDINATING OFFICER(S)

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

(when filled In)

03

ELLASING OFAN

Tell sala

NIN/ CRO

COPY NO.

201-27887

---

## Page 2

4-00000

TELEGRAM IN ORMATION REPURT, TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

• Neticact Datures ist Ma

Liaised Stains

CLASSIF CATION - DISSEMIMATIOH CONTROLS

SECRET

NOPORN /CONTINED COY.RCL

COUNTRY

GUATEMALA/VRIEZUEIA/I-XICO

REPORT NO. TDCS - 3/492;51%

SUBJECT

DATE DISTR. 8 NOVEMBER 1961

1. PLANS AND VIENS OF

JUAN JOSE ARAVALO BURIEJO.

PRECSDENCE ROUTINE

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

EARLY NOVEIBER 1961

IN -19132

19339;

PLACE &

DATE ACO. VENEZUSIA, CARACAS (EARIY NOVEMBER 1961)

APPRAISAL 3

FIELD REPORT NO. H11:-6003

THIS 15 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

PRISONAL FRICAN (E) LE ANIVALD.

I. JUAN JOSE AREVALO BERLETO, FORHER PRESIDENT ME GUATEMALA, TOLD FRIENDS ABOUT

BARLI NOVEMBER 1962 THAT ME MAS PLANNING TO MAKE AÙ ANNOUNCISHERT TRAI FE HOULD GO SO

GUATEMALA IN FEBRUARI 1962. "90 THAT THEY WOULD PREPIRE TROOPS", ACTUALLY, HE PLANS IO

LEAVE CARACAS IN FEBRUARY 1962 AID GO TO NOXICO CITY, HEFE ME WILL STAY UNTIL ITS

1963 PRESIDENTIAL FLECTION IN GUATELALA. AREVALO IS CONFIDENT THAT ER WILL BE ELECTI

PRESIDENT OF GUATELALA. HE SAID THAT FE LECIDED ONLY ABODITLY TO RETURN TO POLITICS

GUATELALA INSTEAD OE GOING TO EUROPE TO LIVE. (FIELD COMMI. ANTICI TRANCE PRESS!

REPORISD THAT AREVALO ANNOUNCED CY 6 NOVELGER THAT HE MOULD RETURN TO GUATTHALA IN

1962.)

20 ABOUT EARLY NOVEMBER 1961 AREVALO SAID:

A. HE NO LONGER DEFENDS THE CONDUCT OF TIE CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY GOVERIEST.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

NOFORN/CONTRiUED CONTROL

ARMY/ACSI

NAVY AIR | SOS SECDEF INSA MIC USLA OCI ONE | OCR DER

EXA DOLICE

D0/1D

TELEGRAM: INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

---

## Page 3

4-00000

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

HOPORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

TDES 3/192,513

o 19132:

19339

B. HE BELIEVES THAT THE ALLINICE. FOR PROGRESS IS TES SA'S CID THING OF

LATIN AMERICAN GOVERNLEVTS SIPSTCLIG OUT THEIR PALIS TO ABG FRO: THE UNITE STATES.

C. HE IS CUTRAGED OVER TE SOTTET BONS TESTS. IP IT IS IMPESSIBLE POR

GUATEMALA TO RENATY SOVEPRICA, EZ PREFERS THAT IT EB A COLONY CE IIE UNTUED STATES

RATEOR THAN OF THE SOVIET UNIQI.

D. REGARDIG THE DENIGRUTICN OF STALIN, AS SAID IRAT THE CONNISTS RECE

SIALINISIO US IMATE IET", INSE THE PUTTER LIFETIE OF COMTUNISH. HOT ZOY

AFE ADKITT LIG THAT FOR THRTY YBARS THEY WERE PRONG.

3. PISTD DISSES. STAT, ARUY, NAVI, AIR, FBI, ISS, AND CITCAPIB.

its crite

MISSSACE

GASSEICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTEGIS

SECRET

MOPORN/CONTINUED. CONTROL

---

