# 104-10106-10383

## Page 1

-00000

104-10106-10383

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNELASSIFIED

-RNAL

ONLY

CONE

09 2001.468-19

TIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBLECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Official Cover for Mr.

Willford C.

Taylor)

C/EUR/Personnel

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

2.

3.

4B01

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Office of General

Counsel

Attn:

7 D 01

John Warner %5/1o

821170

09270.1468

EXTENSION

6913

FrICER

NITIAL

NO.

Memorandum

DATE

August 1970

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom. Draw a line across column after each: comment.)

For your retention

OGC Subject: *X**R

5.

7.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

218d

3-62

610 USE PRONOUS

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

06670-1468-4

SECRET

28 A0221

MEMORANDUM TOR: Chios, Central Cover Staft

SUBJECT

: Official Cover for iT.

We have been informed by the Clandestine Service

of at Punel that they pose no objection to the converston

Iron Staff Agent status to Stall Employee

status which vill emble him to nork regularly in the

Headquarters building

They do, however, feel that prior

to his conversion a suitable cover, consistent with his

legal background, must be arranged.

In inforual discussions with your office, a

possibility of arranging non-offielal cover with a local

law fire vas discussed.

This law firn would ostensibly

have contracts with various goverment agencies.

will be hired by the law f1rn to serve as a

legal advisor to the goverment agencies thus enabling

him to be gone fron the offico a great part of the time.

In vlew of his many contacts in goverment and private

circles, this typo of cover rould hold up since sone of

his fxiends may try to physically reach his at the

office.

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

dewngrading and

declassification

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

-2-

3. If further information or assistance on working

out the dotails of this cover 1s necessary, please

contact Mr. Michael Tanes on Extension 6683.

is/. John L. Hart

John La. Hart

Chief

European Division

CONCUR:

Signea: Raymond G. Rocca

Chairman,

Clandestine Service

Agent Panel

21. AUG 1970

Date

retrall

25 AUG 1970

Date

Jolio S. Warner

Office of Goneral Counsel

27 AUG 1970

Date

DDP/EUR/Personne1/W111ford C. Taylory bdl/6913

• (17 August 1970)

Distribution:

Orig &

• 1 -

• Addressee

. - Office of security

1 ~ Chairman,

CS Agent Panel

X - Office of General Counse]

1

EUR/Personnel

1

- Chrono

1 - E/FI/CI

SEGRET

GROUP

Excluded from automatic

---

