# 104-10120-10059

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10120-10059

Shah to lastm?

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

WHICH TRAVEL ORDER

но.

TRAVEL ORDER

FB/2423/55

ILLOTHRAT ACCOUNT SYMBOL

NAME

603700-55-321 (FE/DI)

OFFICE PHONE

GRADE AND BALARY

3275

TITLE

€203.00.00 7/R, 05-25

OFFICIAL STATION

- 13-3

Takro, topa

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses In

accordance with

Agoncy Regulations.

STIMURARY

13-3

PURPODE

Bags F0I, s1th

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

THI-o See(Fok/0764 (15 27850) (attached).

SPECIAL PROVIDIONS (INCLUDE APPROFRIATE JUSTIFICATION)

COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED TO BE EFFECTED

BY

ORIGIHATING OFFICE)

OTHER OPERATIONAR AREAS

Maximum per diem allowance

is authorized

in accordance

with Agency Regulations.

Advance of funds is authorized.

TRAVEL TO ERGIN ON OR ABOUT

TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY; 3 - 3

27 daly 1955 '

upas retora to canyo

MODE OF TRAVEL (SPECIFY)-

THEATIR CLEARANCE (IF. OBTAINABLE)

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

ALLOWE CE FOR PAVATER UNED AUTOMOBILE AS FOLLOWA IF APPLICABLE

(A) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER.

Certified a True Copy. Signed

copy on file in Central Process-

ing Branch. Reviewed. No change

necessary.

Amended ag.

Ladicatede

(8)

BEVEN CENTS PER MILE, AS BEINO MORE ADVANTAGBOUS TO ....

THE GOVERNMENT.

CORATURE 7 7

THE CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION INDICATED IS EFFECTED IN THE INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MOT FOR YOUR PERBONAL CONVENIENCE

IN CONMECTION WITH CHANGI OF STATION, YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRANSPÖRT YOUR IMMEDIATE TAMILY, YOUR MOUSEHOLD COODS, PER.!

SOMAL EFFECTS, SUBJECT TO WIIGHT LIMITS, KESTRIGTIONS AND PROVISIONS AU BET FORTH IN AGINCY REGULATIONE. ".

TRAVEL TO

FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDINO EXPENSES OF TRANSPONTATION OF IMMEDIATE TAMILY, MOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL

IFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, I8 AUTMORIZED.

RETURN FROM

POST

DUTY ABROAD, 'INCLUDINO EXPINSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE PAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL.

EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, IS AUTHORIZED.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYIN

DEPENDENTE TO TRAVEL WITHIN ONK YEAR OF EMPLOYER

TEMPORARY DUTY.

AND TITLE ON AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL (TYPE)

COLo HARRIS Be Hulb, EPP

(DATE)

SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZIMO OFFICIAL

FORM NO.

8 MAY BA

33-27 : SUPERSEDES PARVOUS ADITIONS OF MONA, 7, 4Y, 1,51. "E-A SAiDA, JA:S, DÓ-DOS ANO BI-DO TRICH MAY NOT BE

---

