# 104-10143-10330

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10143-10330

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 =

Stune!

Hit maranti

GOrY

Interviene

OLC 78-0443/3

5 April 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Shepanek

0/ SA/DO/O

FROM

: Mr. Patrick L. Carpentier

Assistant Legislative Counsel

SUBJECT

: HSCA Interviews of Tokyo Station/SR Division

Individuals (S)

1. (S) Michael Goldsmith, HSCA staff, called concerning the

Committee's letter of 2 March 1978 and requested that the Committee

will confine its interviews of persons assigned to the Tokyo Station/

only to those people that were then assigned to the SR Division. The

remaining individuals listed can be completely disregarded.

2. (S) Goldsmith also requested that arrangements be made for

staff investigator Harold Leap to interview those persons now serving

in Headquarters who were assigned to the SR Division of the Tokyo

Station) in 1963. At this time we will arrange such interviews only

for those persons who served in the SR Division during the months of

November and December 1963.

3. (S) Will you please follow through and make the necessary

arrangements. After the first group is interviewed, we will discuss

this request with Goldsmith and Leap to determine whether or not it

will be necessary to interview those people that were assigned to the

Tokyo Station in 1963 prior to the assassination.

Date to Fla

Carpentier petitl

21022

SECRET

---

## Page 2

4-00000

Distribution:

Orig - Addressee

1 - OLC Subject

1 - OLC Chron

OLC: PLC:jms (5 Apr 78)

---

