104-10169-10017] {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

5 . XA = 205°
é 2 April 1932
Chief, Task Forco/W . i

Chief of Station, JiciAve

Overational/oxnocE

FAl/Vertico Pree

04 an
2s On 32 Tarch 1962]

dorn 12 Decoxber 1933, a Dark employce, Heal addresses C b
nO telephon, vas intorvicued.

2. Boures entd ho vos a rember of EAC, FAL ond Vortice Treo (on
Third Position").

% cour sald that Ga (Calver @ Ob) vax tontrved by Gea
, security forcos.

4, Source sata that’ on) (Fuerza Antt-Comnista ¢e Liberation) is
Well orgenized, the best organized boing the forces in Pinner ¢ol Rio
Province. Me cold that FAL bes. scene exo ond txcuniticn, end is en action
pai conspiring to provoke cn uprising onl cutting off cxzmmicas ~~
7 . Source wes reluctent to nes eny “FAL contact, but finslly nenod
ob na “Perejon Porezjes a conteet ron. Mo ucla that be ewuld arrenze bona
: with Parojon, ond ho was told thot perhegs in the future caz0one ©
vould call upon him end introduce thencelvos o3 "enicos de Icberto” and
locucs th io in further detail. Ie ecreod. Jo onid thot ccm months
ego ee FAL sont cutimicrofilecd raps ofewing ultan for lending arns.end ~
@1so ito proposdd caching sites, dut ho 444 not know to vaea thie antormae
tien ‘yoo yasned.—— .

a
pik 5. Source eatd that he vos olco ascoctcted oreo, ond
toh Goscribed this ercenisation oo boing: ec=posed of intellectuals end

U "profosoioncls. Its micoton is not let boceuse en he doveribed it one
“et the functions is to explain the horrors of the Ceuniot syste to the
wanses by the adoption of a third position. Vortico.ts also intorestod in i
fore oubtle approachos, such as industrial slowiowms and schotoze. Tho © Breese ©
 $rbnsia, howovor, sypeara to be on promrcanta end he said Vortice 16 on Hh
the point of obtaining a radio plant. le vas acked 1f this woo a “pirate” "
reAdo", but ho roplicd no, that it would remain on the oir co that it could,
be heard, Whon oskod about the Diing protlens, ho said ho woo told by on
enginoor vio 48 vorking on this project that it yas 0 “Dolte dyotem Radio’
Qn4 thoy vould not havo to be efrata ef IVing. (This docs not make conse,
‘Seb {b vos ell tho source ney on thio oubject.) : 2

~ "6s Rouree ontd that Yortiee ‘aces supplios; ‘ouch as Mincx eanoras,
‘but be vould not or could not give the bene of @ Vorties contact tn Hah



j CA 105

rego 2
Ud cate thero 4s 2 Yertica contest in Mont, Coramio (lm) ena eithouch
he did nos kzoy tho lestroso or esézesa ce Corervo, bo wea coins to try
gn leccte hin, 13 was ecain routnéed of ‘the "chicos" who vould coll
om hin for this infomation.

: 04, DF
7 Source cata that before he left Ciba ho rot vith Esccte Carri2t0,
! the nloce ef Justo Corr! Ske told hin thet Justo cent ina Roooa99
eoying "Do careful vith’ Thos ae (ooeeegialested tie source to cot in touch
‘Oe | withy aed end tell hin thet at Ye
de 4 Cond

al wie

ial cexocatory inforcation on Flavio
the cotatle.t che thorat Pesta]o tucsace wes confusing. ae
Source caid that "Flavio" 4a tho ver noo Tor” lo Taque who elco uses

efrenk" and "thnolite." Source Sold thet it 4s bolicved that the mma
Bvelio Dugue is in itsole @ vor nom,

8. Source Adentified Arturo Gold, on cealeyce of the Fationel Pook, oe

Agenoia hedO-l0 , Linca ¥ O Vedsto, ibena, aso solf-afnitted roror of

+ Arturo fo chout 32 years old, Vhlto, stoezy (cout 190 pounds), 599"

tall, vhite, dleck hatr end bes a lerge mustacho.” fa vas fornsrly the

° ek the bon, but because of his O-2 poaiticn he 4s nov aman of
BS Breotige and catered to by en. - .

' a le
