Pe a us
104-1095

te 2022 RELESSE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

- REFERENCE:

1976, He was releas!

fer 2 .
“ felt ’ E e.

SPOT REPORT

SUBJECT: .. Willem ‘Oltmans: and DATE:. 29 August 1977
He Georgé:.de. Mohrenschildt : :

. POONER Pion og:
. Aud.esn, puUnouByeg
- WI. OLNYALZY

DESCRIPTIOI

: 1. . “According to an article: in the 1 April.1977.Washington Star.
George de Mohrenschildt, who had befriended the Oswalds in 7
attempted. suicide. four:.times in'1976. As a result he was committed for
mental care:to.the Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas in the fall of

30 December 1976.

- "2.2 In early: Jamiary'1976, according to Willem Oltmans, a Dutch
journalist working for Dutch television, who had known de Mohrenschildt since

at least 1967 and. perliaps.earlier, de Mohrenschildt told Oltmans that he

_was writing .a.book ‘entitled I'ma Patsy, I'm a Patsy. It purports to tell -
the whole story:of the. conspiracy and, ding to Oltmans, described how

acco;
de Mohrenschildt considered himself responsible for Oswald's actions.’ The
book ‘has not: been ‘published and the. manuscript. is apparently in the hands of

“de Mohrenschildt's ‘lawyer, Pat |S. Russell of Dallas... Oltmans is cited ina _

Washington Star article: of 31 March 1977 as stating that de Mohrenschildt

once, said, that." only’made up the story (about Oswald) because every-
body makes a million dollars off the Kennedy assassination, and I haven't
made anything: So. now my turn.” E

3. : In/early March.1977, Willem Oltmans appeared before the House. .
Assassinations: Committee to tell.about de Mohrenschildt's decision to tell
his version of the Kennedy murder.. ‘It was this appearance. before Committee
staffers that prompted .the panel to send Gaston Fonzi, an investigator, to
Palm Beach in an attempt! to question de-Mohrenschildt. Fonzi-located where
de Mohrenschildt was staying in Palm Beach. but was unable to see de
Mohrenschildt... The latter shot himself with a 20-gauge shotgun on
29 March 1977, in:the home of Mrs. Charles Tilton, III, a relative by
marriage, about six hours before the interview was to take place. .

“4, [The Dutch servicesJhave maintained an interest in Willem Oltmans
over the years, particularly his contacts with Soviet officials in The
Netherlands and the Soviet Union. ae oeeee

DCI'S RECOMMENDATIONS FOR DDO ACTION:

SECRET _-. CL BY 061197


Chairmaii his personal assurance in this regard. The subject
of the Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) and Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) was introduced by the Director and

DCI.and the Chairman expressed strong interest in having
this accomplished in a much shorter time. The subject of
security--specifically leaks to the press--was also discussed
and both sides agreed that every effort would be made to avoid
such a problem. The meeting broke up after about 20 minutes
with expressions of good will and pledges of cooperation from
all parties. : -
3. (U/IUO) After. the meeting, Mr. Blakey and Mr.. Wolf
approached Messrs. Cary, Stembridge and the undersigned, and it.
was agreed that we would. have Mr. Blakey out to the CIA
Headquarters in the very near future for orientation and to
discuss the NDA and MOU. °

dng fglas 4 et

Chief, Coordination and Review Staff
Office of Legislative Counsel

cc: Mr. Stembridge, DD/OS
Mr. Walker, 0/SA/D0/0
Mr. Leader, 0/IG

Distribution:
Orig - OLC/Subj
1 - OLC/Chrono
OLC/DTC/ksn (10 Aug 77)

