# 104-10180-10067

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10180-10067

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETVRN TO G

Background Use Only

Do Nọi Reproduce

*CONTRELLED DESL

CONFIDENTIAL

RAL.

NTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY

DATE Of

INFO.

CUBA

22-24 AUGUST 1964

T0 6508-315100568-64

DISTR 29 AUGUST 1964

SUBJECT

RESIGNATION OF ROGELIO CISNEROS

DIAZ AYD OTHER MEMBEA

0т

JURE'S MATIONAL EXECUTIVE

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (25 AUGUST 1964)

PLACE &

DATE ACQ

• SOURCE

AND

APPRAISALS

REF

502719

HAD REPORT NO. ure, 5764

A MENDER OF A GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES. TRAINED IN THE TECHNIQUES OF INFORMATION.

COLLECTION.

THE GROUP MAS PROVIDED USEFUL REPORIS FOR ABOUT THRÉE YEARS. MA

THIS INFORMATION VAS OBTAINEO FROM RÉINALDO PADRON"":

REINALDO PADRON, A CLOSE ASSOCIATE GE ROGEL:O CiSMEROS DIAZ

•OF THE JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA (JURE, CUBAN REVOLUT JUNTA) O

SAID THAT CISNEROS PRESENTED HIS RESIGNATICN FROM MEMSERSHIP IN JURE'§.

NATIONAL EXECUTIVE TO MANUEL RAY RIVERO CN 22 AUG 64. IN ADDITION,

THE RESIGNATIONS OF MARIA ALTONIO GARCIA, SECRETARY OF ORGANIZATICN

OF. THE FEMININE SECTION OF JURE'S MIAMI DELEGATION, AND JORGE

ESTEVA VARELA, MIAMI DELEGATE, HAD DEEN PRESENTED TOGETHER

WITH THAT OF CISNEROS.

2. ASCORDING TO PAGRON, WHEN PAUL CHIBAS RIBAS LEARNED OF

CISNEROS' RESIGNATION, CHIBAS ALSO RESIGNED, CISNEROS ALLEGEDLY TOLD

CONFIDENTiAL

STATE/INR

ARMY/ACSI

00/.

10/cr 2

CUNIEULLED DISE!

ONE

OCR

IS. SECDEI.., NSA. MIC

USIA

oct

IRIS. - TREASURY.

REPCINCLAYT..

---

## Page 2

100 070.ro

CLASSIFÉO MESSAGE

RoM

ACTION

AFa.

JINAVE.

ОСР, АЗОР,

MM/se 12,

он 9,

ce 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, C1/00S, 61/10 2, F1, FS/0, TO/PRE 5R.

SECRET 2821192

28 RUG 5% - 23267

il1: 627.788

DIR INFO SUAN CITE WAVE 1887

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: ANTAUP-2 IN DO-IIER OF 24 NUC 6% FRET RELILDO PADREA.

PARA i SASED UES-5759. RID: NO INGEN. I LED: 28/21192

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTRETEEDEDISSER

• CUSA

SUBUECT: PESIENATION IF FOGELIO ELENEROS LIA: INO CINER MEMBERS CE

JURE'S MATICHAL EXECUTIVE

DOI: 22-24 AUG 64

PAÇA: WAITED STATES, 19:41, (25 AUS 64)

UFG 575÷

SOURCE: A MEISER GE A GRCUP GE CUBAN EMIGRES IRAINED IN THE TE.-.QJES

.OF INFO-MATICH COLLECTION. THE GPOUP HAS FROVIDED COSTLE REFORTS OF

ASCUT THREE YEARS. TELE MECEMATION MAS COTALED FROULET iSLE E

IN COMMENT:

MH/ SA

ME PAGY

RELEASING I WO

12

Tocs 58-315100568-64

X I ROUTINE

BASED. ON:

PRIORITY

UrG 5764

" (NO PROJÈCT)

деня

DATE: DISTRIBUTED. $

AuGust 196%

06092

DOMMORADINO ANO

ORCLASSIRICATION

REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy ta

---

## Page 3

CONTROLLED DISSON

ES' SEPTO SAR 1801

2770

IDCSC0-315/00568-6P108

, 2

CONFIDENTIAL

MADNEN INNI MANUEL VAMELA CASTRO WOULD SUEMIT HIS RESIGNATION SHOSTLY.

3. PADRON ASSERTEO THAT THE RESIGNATIONS FROM JURE WERE

MOTIVATED BY THE FACT THAT RAY FAILED TO KEEP HIS PROMISE TO BE

IN CUSA BY Z8 MAY 64.

4. (FIELD COMMENT: ANOTHER SOURCE WHO HAS REPORTEO ACCURATELY,

FOR MORE THAN A YEAR CN EXILE POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS IN GENERAL

REPORTED THAT CISNEROS RESIGNED ÖN 22 ÄUG BECAUSE HE REALIZECO

THAT CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE ORGANIZATION WERE DISSATISFIED WITH HIS

LEADERSHIP..)

5. FIELO DISSEMS STATE, FISTS CALSO SENT SAN SUAN.)

CONFIDENTIAL

END CF MESSAGE

CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

