“'404-10172-10192) [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

"> secrer

S 1 INFORMATION REPORT

1
{ sussect: SAnatol4y Mikhaylovich GOLITSYN (201-294855)

1 ot = i)

; source: [Ab masi :
i .

i

| REFERENCE:

“It is requested that no further dissemination be" madé
at this time, since the source is sti}l undergoing
i debriefing and it is possible that the attached ‘ony

ation may be expanded or amended. Should there be any

ua
reason to disseminate any item at this time, prior coor
dination with

{ COMMENTS: is i i comes from an] C/SB/CI/P is
! { and is disseminated in required. |
: H the form in whith it was received.
. :
4 03

SB/CI/P, 4C17, Hqs., x 6073

ORIGINATOR: |Jane E. Curti

| \
po oo 3

F
|
i
|
|

DISRIBUTON: wu
a - 1P/AR/SB for[74}6~756/4; 1 = C/S8/CI/2 (chrono)
please index all names ~ 1 - C/SB/CI/P (Grady)

1 - SD/COPS 1 = c/sB/x0

Y - c/sB/10 V = C/EURKC i
| 1 = C/S3/T/USSR 1 = C/CI/0PS i
| 1 - C/SB/Cl/T 1- :
i 1 =. C/SB/CI/X 1. i
HH 1 ~ C/SB/CI/R
fl : :
t 23 : FOR-CROSS FitI"G IW
‘by cosy men wLT4yo-tse/ ‘ i 350% te
ts Caey FILED WN secret | 201 ae 73 728

fl

"tat

87 Bac, 4?



SECRET

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE INFORMATION REPORT
SBSR - S87
24 July 1972

COUNTRY: USSR/United Kingdom
SUBJECT: Anatoliy Mikhaylovich GOLITSYN
bor : 1971 or as specified

SOURCE : A staff officer of Department V (Sabotage, Assas~
simation, etc.) of the KGB First Chief Foreign)
Directorate who defected on 3 September 1971 while
serving at the Soviet Embassy in the United Kingdom.
The information is considered generally reliable
within the limits of the source's knowledgeability,
pending completion of debriefing and subsequent
final evaluation of the source and the total product.

M4. the ate nformation comes directly froa the
which is handling the source. Since
georiering has not yet been completed, there may be further
information clarifying, amending, or adding to the present

report. Any such information received will be disseminated
in the present series.

ae Recipients of this report are encouraged to contact
the originator regarding evaluation of the material or submis-
sion of requirements.

3. Source knew of GOLITSYN only by this name, but the
companion with whom Source defected also knew of GOLITSYN as

KLIMOV.\\ She had heard more about him when she visited her
Parents in{Finland), but furth i @ not as yet been
received from the

Al
Attachment: Source report as indicated.

PROVAL OF DIRLC

SECRET

Ite

3/6R


. oat SLCSET Z
Anatcliy Mikhaytovich GCLIISYN
born 25.8. 1926.
Defected in Finland 15.12.1961.
A Maine eats eB met yt DALLA is 4 .

GOLITSYN defected during source's period of service with
the K.G.B. Source heard about him from various K.G.B. officers

but never met him. i

2. With reaard to GOLITSYN's defection, source id he had fite.
been told in Londen ty both Konstantin Tvanovich“Z6TO¥ head of 4u-
K.G.B. arandh Epbgynter- intelligence) there, and Sergey Mik-,
hay loviehyGGLUSt f “tne K.G.B. officer responsible for the S.K.»
that GOLITSYN, whose job in Finland source described as “Branch

2 of something", had clashed violently with: his Resident in
Helsinki. He wrote a number of official and private letters to
Moscow asking that either he or the Resident. be transferred.
Headquarters refused to agree this, and when he visited Moscow
threatened that if he failed to get on with the Resident he

would be in danger.of losing his job. This was too much for
GOLITSYN, so he defected. Source added that this reason for
GOLITSYN's defection was convincing, and that he had never

heard any rumour that it was not genuine. ; ;

£
5,

3. Source gave the following information about the measures
taken by the K.G.B. as the result of GOLITSYN's defection: '

(a) He had been sentenced to death; this was stated in
an article in “The Chekist" which appeared some time after

1964. The K.G.B8. would try to kill him as soon as they
could find hia.

(b) Within six weeks of GOLUBEV's arrival in London on

12.6.71. he told sourcesthat he had received a telegram.

from Headquarters ordering him to concentrate on obtaining
information about GOLITSYN, (to whom the K.G.B. had given .
the abusive nickname UROD), because according to their

information GOLITSYN had visited England several times,

and while they had now established “the place of residence”

they had no approach to him. Moscow required detailed

information asout where he was living, his habits and

activities. From the wording of this telegram source ie
deduced that GOLITS was not resident in Encland, and

that the object of this order.was to remind GOLUBEY of a

standing instruction that the highest priority was to be

given to obtaining information about him,

i i SECRET baeauer as
are i SP a7 iza) wwe

