[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

‘"404-10182-10094

Yor

Ca ead

ave * be ccs naa ists?
wsCHIEF. OF STATI CH JBRAYE "nf Soe
: : jon nea mcr
oe aE a) mapannse { isndsanie
CHIEF, WHO iiss panne a | ecm
MITCHCLA LLVInGSTCh WER BELL BICGRAFHIC SKETCH bia
Tergm eran etTUReAs : Background thee iste
Do Not Repfoduce

ACTICH REQUIRED - FYE
REFERENCE - UFGA-22126, 20 SEPTEMBER 1965 - RECENT DETENTICN CF AMLEC-3

: y

1, WER EELL, 201-259910, WAS BORN 8 MARCH 1918 IN PHILADELPHIA
DURING WORLD WAR FI HE SERVED WITH THE CSS IN BURMA AND CHINA, SHORTLY
AFTER HIS DISCHARGE, HE OFZNEU AN ADVERTISING AND PUBLIC RELATIGNS
FIRM IN ATLANTA, GECRGIA, THIS BUSINESS FAILED AND HE BECAME INVOLVED
IN JMPCRT-CXPCRT TRADE AND PROMGTICN WORK IN CENTRAL AMERICA ANO THE
CARIBBLAN, HE WAS GRANTEO A PCA ON 13 JULY 1959 BUT WAS CONTACTED ONLY
OCGASICNALLY AT HEASQUARTERS UNTIL HE WAS TERMINATED IN GCTCBER 1959.
4T WAS DETERMIKED THAT HE HAD NO WCRTHWHILE (NFORMATICN TG CFFER NOR
WAS HE ABLE TO GEVELCP ANY. HE WAS ASSESSED BY HEADQUARTERS AS A
SMWHEELER DEALER! TYPE WITH CONSIDERABLE INTELLIGENCE BUT UNABLE TO
REALIZE MUCH SUCCESS IN PRGMOTILN WORK AND THAT HIS APPROACHES TC KUBARK
WERE DESIGNED FRIMARILY TC CETAIN FINANCIAL SUPPORT,

2. IN MAY 1962 WER BELL WAS IN MANAGUA AS VICE FRESIDENT OF
COMMUNICATICNS INTERNATIGNAL LI0., OF NASSAU, ATTEMPTING TOG SELL NATO
SURFLUS ARMS. HE WAS ALSO ATTEMPTING Tc SELL AN INTERNATIGNAL
INVESTIGATICN SERVICE CFFEREGD UNDER WORLDWIDE INFGRMATICN. SERVICE
areata WER BELi CLAIMED TC OWN. HE WAS NOT SUCCESSFUL IN EITHER

3. WER BELL WAS REFORTEG IN THE DCNINICAN REPUBLIC IN
OECEMBER 1964 ASSCCIATED WITH FINCA /FRUTAS INTERCCNTINENTALES, = -- -
C PCR A/, AN GRGANIZATICN WHICH EXFORTS FRUIT FROM THE DCMINICAN REPLELIG
“LATER, UURING THE FIGHTING IN SANTO DOMINGO, HE WAS WITH AMCARBCK- |
WHEM THE LATTER WAS WCUNDED,

ERNEST A. LUSBY

OISTRIBUTION BY TAPE
3 + COS, JMWAVE

orate Sovirg Oe OER

a UP GWA5972_ 28 SEPTEMBER 1965

19-132-5

Distribution:
1+ WH/C/ESEC
Le WH/C/MO

Ceeen |

watzer toil -
03

«
TY SB ceemee

