‘04-10172-10112]
] 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

i

Seige

TATERUAL SEV TEED AT CPS WEAR WAE Sry

(House SP COsPreri nn Ox ASSASSTRATLONS STAEF HENBERS

_ Sol: fats if

“TNCLUSIVE DATE L Tas b2- = sai Ps

a CUSTODIAL UNIT/LGCATTON:

|
i
FUME TUTEE/SUIBER/ VOLUN: ASLA seyl, LURE rao i" ae

RAOM:

ONS, TE ANY: TED ABUL

MAY BE COPEED Ok REMOVED PRON FES FILE,



THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS - 201-128561 (HALPERIN)

Vol. VII FBI (Boston) 2/6/62; File 100-25501 & 65-11303
FBI (Beston) 1/25/63; .Files, as above
FBI. (Washington) 2/26/63; ‘re HALPERIN |
i FBI (Washington) 2/26/63
ws FBI (Boston) 1/13/64; File #BS 100-25501 & 65-14303

i FBI (Washington): 1/18/65

FBI (Boston) 3/25/66; File #100-31726 & 100-424134
* ye Edity Evelyn HALPERIN

FBI (Washington) 6/14/66; File # (S) 65-14303
FBI (Boston) 12/15/66
FBI (Washington) 10/10/67 ~
: aie FBI (Washington) 4/30/68 ;
FBI (Boston) 7/14/72 re Maurice

ts - "FBI (Boston) 7/14/72 re Edith



EALPERE, Reuriee Ryson
DOD: 3 Raed 1906

wife: Blithe Frisch

Gudject is 6 0.3,
alfred. M
STaus" besisess
to be in Raced.

fen a Cortsteas cant(1¥
Mrrcer,, Sabena, Gaba’
Sie ces on acer

FOB; Bestoa,, Kassachuetts

X_ S019 Kextoo,

Wert ieg
iL

SUT We

OY, ae Apt Ged,
Test tino tha

sting cards

eitisen and a former OSS aployoe.

Sadject bao been closely apeociated with Marta Dold ond
god bo handled coms of tbo

Ao of April 1959,

3

sm ER/CR/D tosaier (Also coe LOWIFOXL Case fies.)

svi ptrertd Suhfretts potemn pttcias(reest

SWAY,
& Subt<?

Aue oe
tes Rita»

20]-129 SG]

i
1
i



OUTGOING -MESSAGE ,

tuo
Puen slic ror
haniaannt : om wen enOn aere ence OEE
? ygz2130z DIRECTOR ‘B8I288
ae / wro: “re DPO4, phofdg, 06S efss tee ae DISSEN BY: 75
j fave ( CO mnenre PER
Dens # 2&0)

au DON INFO OTTAUA-¥

RYBAT PLMHBLANKET ¥

REF? LONDON 74209 TIN a2 {RELAYED .OTTAUATY
}. PER REFERENCE REQUEST FoR TRACES ON. MAURICE HYMAN

HALPERIN {201-2285b1}. ‘UE ARE FORWARDING VIA TM-FIVE 1960"

NEUSPAPER CLIPPINGS AND A RECENT ARTICLE FROM TRE SIMON FRASSER uNI-
VERSITYs BRITISH COLUNBIAs ALUNNE NAGAZINE FOR PASSAGE TO JAGUAR.
THIS INFORMATION IS PROVIDED PURSUANT 10 OUR SERVICE TO- SERVICE °

ARRANGEMENT FOR THE “EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION ON PERSONS OF COUNTER- ©

INTELLIGENCE INTEREST-¥

2. ., MAURICE HALPERIN HAS TWO CHILDREN? DAVID CARLOS BORN S NAY.

3937 IN OKLAHOMA city AND JUDITH YVONNE BORN 2 SEPT aan IN BOSTON. ©

DBD-43LY4s BS MAR U9bb} LNERGO APPROVES PASSING TO
AGENCY RECORDS ON-MORTON HALPERIN DO NOT REFLECT ANY RELA-
HALPERIN IS A COMRON NANE- ¥
GROWTH AND CRISIS IN THE LATIN

SOURCE?
JAGUAR.
TIONSHIP WITH MAURICE HALPERIN.

3- PUBLICATIONS SINCE 1957+

AMERICAN ECONOMY: 29bh. "CONFERENCIAS SOBRE GEOGRAFIA ECONOMICAT

Vib4as "HACIA UN NUEVO SISTEMA DE PLANIFICACION Y DIRECCION

DATE: - Bua .
ont : : eee PSt DISSEM
7 : : i ‘
: oe PONT
i oo os esac RYE
RECORD'COPY

meeerearea opmecas


OUTGOING. MESSAGE

wroses cenrrny se ot

a

SECRET : fe

DIRECTOR

STAFF
cons: mo: ALE . SVsess

non DISSEM BY:
ro woe

Q
a
D mere PER
a

ECONOMICAS EN LA UNION seve Cee LIbY. AND "THE RISE AND DECLINE OF
FIDEL CASTRO - AN ESSAY IN CONTEMPORARY HISTORY", UNIVERSITY ‘OF

“CALIFORNIA PRESS-¥ :
~ y. THE FOLLOUING IS FROM FHABOVE AND NEEDS: THEIR CONCURRENCE To

Pass To JAGUAR» “MAURICE HALPERIN IS CURRENTLY TEACHING AT SIMON

FRASER UNIVERSITY IN BRITISH COLUMBIA AND EXPECTS THAT THE UNIVERSITY

WILL EXTEND HIS TEACHING APPOINTMENT TO AucusT ‘B97?- HALPERIN TOLD

FHABOVE THAT HE AND HIS WIFE TOURED ISRAELy ITALY, GREECE, SPAIN, AND

ENGLAND IN THE SUMMER OF 1975- HE IS CURRENTLY“ YORKING ON THE SECOND

VOLUME OF HIS BCOK ON CUBA. “WE LEFT THE IMPRESSION WITH FHABOVE THAT’

UHEN IT IS FINISHED HE BILL BEGIN UORK ON HIS AUTOBIOGRAPHY. {SOURCE?

OCOA-19202. 22 JAN 7bI¥

Ss. "FOR OTTAUA: UAGUAR HAS REQUESTED TRACES ON MAURICE HALPERIN.

pa PLS. NOTIFY LONDON IF FHABOVE APPROVES PASSING INFO FROM PARA FOUR

ABOVE TO JAGUAR.Y
b. -FILE: 2?3-b-4b/3. E2 INPDETed

DDO/AGC - A+ E+ GOLDIN {IN DRAFT
owe: 32 JU y cuRsac Ae . :
var creo fl ge fale Pei
ca ot BQ

Les
AC/CI/06

‘coomonuree comeans

REPRODUCTIUd BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRL..JITED = 2  IMPDET.



vey

Ex-OSS Official Works
For Reds in Moscow |

By VICTOR LASKY Haut
merch american Neewearee Als
“A former Bosten University
professor. who once was a Nigh
jal in the OSS, has turned ”

questiccs concern:
ment actieh

in Novem
geen and

TAM, Da, ale
ost

wets Ia an Re eres

ae. dabbled in real estate,

|

fa Moscow working for the : and}
Soviet eoveraments WASH DE {tbe American ‘Scheu Fousas
ie [_ The professor. Dr. Maurice STAR ~—s

jsSuen ease ago. ater aa Une fp Ja Altmed Re'Siaa, enn

fue years. a a Ine a KR, Stera_and his

lquiry-into his Communut back 30 bo jevts, the former Martha Dodd,

sroiind. BF ig idaxehter of & former United’

According to the. State De- “Ambassador ta Germany.

partment, he probably: ad i fact the Stems Rad been:

vising Soviet oMiciais on Latin ee {easheated In Soret esnonace

: i ume. faivision of the Ofice of Stra-.Ga October 12
‘Government oficiais. : 1, 1998 the Hale
" | Firat OMtahoma steele Services ithe OSS was penis left “Mextea Ravine.
Intrigue in Mexico Hthen the United States Civitan egraced plane reservations Init

American affairs,
hich he 1s expert

Prof. Halperin was suspended
by Boston. University in 1953
after ne refused, on constitu. . ff
Uonal grounds, to tell a Senate |
suocommitten whether he had
ever been a Communist Party
_member.

According to the State Dex |
partment. he had previousl¥.py. paiperin. tt was obstous!
rage in wartime Washington. (?octained in. hin dossier that
He had been named by EizA-lthe State Depaitment had been||
beth “Tercil Bentley. s82%:t¢4:Aeeping an ya on the former!
Mormer spy 4 fessor's mavements for sone.
iner sources of. supply among {Professor's movements (

an area in

a

And since 1983, Dr. Halperin, From 1931 to 1041, Dr. Hal
has been involved in stil more!perin—a Harvard University’
Inurigue'aa an “exile” in Mexi-praduate—had been professor
co. Tt was. he, for exaraple,,at the University of Oxianoma
who assisted wo | suspected |Acccrding to the record, it wns;
Spies fn thelr fight from Mex-!ia this period that he directed
fico to Cecchoslovakta to avoid Communist activities in Oxia~

esc Geaea exereditn pro-choma and, on repeated visits
ceedings. to Mexico, conferred with Mex

; ON ane visit}

{ jhe later was transferred to the,

| LUnked to Spy Ring

Ste out with the arrest in|
fe York of Jack Sable, a So-
sent Tow

y before a'spectal grand:
meceauees wth
and “the deudic -agentis
BN: Merras,” the Sterns fed!
to Ceechosiovakia in July, 1957
De. Halpera, described
j vo Tiee tuteis rene iat
] jiRee plans for escape.” had!
> HALPERIN “Sobiat Miine “tetaaue
M < site Sterns user atone
{Continued Prom First Page SZ" ,S!
lerment service. Bmplosed. a8 © Creal nearer

forernment was eonaide
emiel of the Latin Americansise Ris case (or deportations

Antelisence: Gathering Agener)te cames of other persons!
t

1State Department. In doth An Russia Sinco 1938
lasenctes according to ‘The Stato Denariment mem.
[Elizabeth Bentley testimony, be /°3: h
jtrangmitted confidential docu-! “We reeeived information’:
isortty after Halperin’y de}

{ments to a Sovlet spy ring.
iparture from Mexica that helt

3 ecaplosed: in
| tn19ia, he became head af ts TSR. This was ceeermelt

‘i Dr, Mate { lean ed tend | in 9. ‘
1 ncSe SAU etfs ata He Cuba tas ne ana 04 LM ARTS nga Va 18. isa eben he
| BRE aes letuningers. had ‘been artes : Stivee i
[Bravatay tn Moscow to present by Cuban authoring 2ndese) a0". Colese of “ner assrvan eens ty Mowcot
oa Cap anil HA presen :
theie’ United Bratt patente Peleg fram the OMnty. | | | UA, dear aie he wax fat Sates pusporte ‘A tes
for renewal. aiselosas ta aidisclosed in an investigation} “publicly (dentifed as a membez|“Hstoerin stared | thal
~.. Stave Department memoran-!¢onducted by an ‘Oxtahomal
“dum prepared for ‘Senator {State _legislati committee.
: Keating, Republican of ‘New!The committee, investigating)
: York, who has been urging the subversive activities ins Oxt
| eetiee ot Recniesertsupe) noma, -préduced
| 7 (RSRES jensiaion empowering’ that in 1840. Dr, Halperin had
1 [Ported lentsation empowering toned a eneck for 4438 arava
| [ports to active participants inom ‘the Bank of Foreign Trade|
Sener Sedtdusueer Ion Midscowr Retn esate
1 POreE Mealdusaery a. ciung/Maiperin, wan alamied. fro
1 | lecaucs where passports ‘have, the University of Oklahoma.
on “ned to be issued to known! Despite this record, Dr. Hal-
- “Sommunists.” devoted consid-iperin managed to enter Gor-
BIE attention Wo the eats'of! See HALPERIN, PazeA-

-
"m

Of a Soviet soy ting. This came ned tera in the USSR
about when Vice President ye St he i

Teemter, 1988 and that he is

jgfesman, made known a topiece of Sciences where he ts
secret memorandum on es~iaxnz rescareh ... relaing to:

Director J. Edsar Hoover tol “in wall be recalied that Hab
ithe White House on Novem-iresta-t somethint cf a9 Bue
Der 8, 1943. on Latin Amenea:
j__dm Maren, 1953, tn. Boston’ Our informanien ins
[Federal Bulding, Dr. Halperin !Sxates that this prosssis 6
‘tepeated’y invoked the- PIUh!the feld In which he i 8OCks
mendment whenain a herr~iing at the present. tisie.

jis conducted by the Senate] ~The Soviet Acadesir of]
Internal Security Subcommite |Scirscts is directly subore-rate
[hessne reused’ to reply tolta te Council of Ministers

‘plonase transmitted by FBI/coterdeveloped countries. |
iY
y



i : : Moa ahenglin. Joe
f Bagh. (Feo

pe aan A

\

i

01.190 THE WASHINGTON POST

Halperin, U. 8. Ex-Aide,
- = YIsNowa Soviet Officiall .

American Embansy tn Mexico]
City, where ho had gono after|
being dismissed by Boston!
‘University, and used it to}
leave Mexico on Oct. 13, 1958.
‘the State Departinent said),
that shortly alter Halperin
and nis wife departed from}
Mexica It received informa.
{tion that he was employed in
Moscow hy the Soviet Union,
© this was-confirmed on July
15,1960, when tha Halperlis
appeared at the American}
[Embassy In Moscow aad pref
jseuted thelr U. S passports
for renewal,” the Depart:
's report sald, addin,
Iperin stated that ”he|
isd been in tho USS. since}
December, 1950, and that he is
lemployed’ by ‘the USSR
Academy of Sclences where
|, whether he was a Coramunist.|- he 1s dotng research in the
The:tatest. information on _ oy Anmtaearree Horeign field. specially, relat,
Uaiperin’s" whereabouts is! MAURICE M1. JIALPERIN_ |Ing to undeveloved countries.” .
contained In a report compiled! <—TFelleved Soviet employe | The Departinent recalled
by the State Department} sah **-|that Halperin was something}
about persars to whom It has} Jof an authority on Latin,
been compeliad to issue pass:|deny passports to Commiunists| American affairs and ‘sald,
ports under a 1983 decision of/or to other persons because of|“Our Informatiun ‘Indicates
the Supreme Court, their pelitical beliefs. that. this probably Is the fleld
‘The Court etd that the De-| After the ruling, Iatperin|in whieh he is working at the
: partment lacks authority tojapplied for a passport at the|present time.” i

. ae

asseiatdd Pree
The State Department says
that Mi: A Hatperin, a]
former United States Govern]
ment oficial linked dy Senate|
fnvestigators (a Soviet espl].
onace activities. apparently Is}
serving now as a Latin-Amer-|
ean adviser to the Russians,
ras-head of the]
merican Division off
the Otice of Strategic Serv]
lees during the latter. part of
' World War U1 and later an as
sociate- prngessor st Boston
University. Before the war, he
had ‘been “ea the faculty’ off
the Universizy of OXlahoma.
In 1954 he was dismissed by|
Boston University after Sen-|
ate Investiganrs received tes:
tmony linking his to.a Soviet
any ring and ke relused to}
answet a question 23 to



FORMER U. 8. AIDE
ATWORKLISOVIBR:

: ~ ;
Ex-BostonU. Professor Wasi!
in 0.5, in World War Ir
: ad

iby SACK RAYMOND
2 pool ts Toe Se Ford aw

= WASHINGTON, Aug. S1—]
‘The Stato Department hag
disclosed Wat a former United
States Intelizence official tsi
ta Moscow working for th

viet Govecoment. wih
* He ie Dy. Maurice Matpertn|
toner Basten URS]
profemor who was head of thel
Latin ssnerican Division of the|
Ottice - beg Strategic Serve
aniing 7
~De. .Balperin. was dismissed
fom Boatgn University 18 1954]!
after he refused to say whet
sberwas aq Communist, Ho-has|
‘beed Unkod in testimony
Benato, imestigators to
viet spy thn: Pa
“1 The-Atste Department's. dio}
Glasura wena contained

‘memoranda a éupport™ of
Proposed Iw to ceny passports |

“to persans supposing Interna
_ onal gommurism, —**:
‘The'Supreme Court ruled ta}
1958 ‘that, passports could” not]
Be denied to Communists
"others Decuse of thelr political

Date 4 >
“Dr. Halperin and his!
Eadithy :wyre ‘thea in Mexico}
City, ;thg State Deparunent|
noted::: They Bad deen

-16 the escape behind the Lront
Curtain’Sof Alfred - KL’, and|
‘Martha Qodd Stem, who: iwere]
under Feteral indictmang "
espionage i a
“After the Supreme Court:
Ang, + tho :Halperins applied

FORMER U. 5. AIDE |
AT WORK IN SOVIET

Contlaued From Page 1, Cob 1,

Mexico City for passports and
ett Mexico Oct 13, 198% At
the time, the State Department
noted, they were about to bel
deported trom Mexico for Cem,
imunist actteities -
Reports. that Dr. - Halpesial!
was working for the Soviet!
Goveinment In Moscow were
Lalit July 18, ere
SURE Department meniorantumy
went on, when he and,his wit}
speared at tho embasay to rel!
ew thelr passports, .
Embassy . officials reported}

“Acadenty of t
inthe forelgn” field

Teepeciiily relating to’ under

Beretoped.cointrles’

“Tne State Department, re
calling that Dz, Halperin’ was}

1
elences. soing!
|

Trecion indicates nat this prob
iy iy the field Invwhied he to:
Sete hata ante f
‘State Department ofticiats; |
have repeatedly called attention,
to the Soviet trade and cultural
‘offensive In Latin America, [i
Reterring to. Di. Halprin’!
acoployment "by" "the Soviet.
Keaiemy, the ’State™ Depare
front obterwnd that it was dh?
Reta soberdiate to the Soviet:
Council of Ministers :

Requested by Keating

S“otms “memoringum’ wal ps
pared al the rejuest of Secate
Kenneth 1. Keating, Repstican
gt New, Yoru, We and Senat

J. Dek” Derwent

nL bats:
aE the St
patnarity te

s Ke

of Aug. 18)
Sepreseed regret. xt Che Um

ary
Peekt sao
Sree Sie
seat Nate
reece en te
two missing employes e¢ the
‘The two employes of tee toad
F. Miteheil and Wiliam H!
feat ting
Soviet Union, ee
tke missing “man had Smadel
Seed
Tir Reties Se
Reerineee Eas
ere -_ ce Sid thas be was’
ote rete
bad advance. know! he
Sor nes ee
SP nae ea
2 Shee cores
sn

Refused to Appear |
BOSTON, ‘ug. 31-—De. Hake
a was officially dismissed

i tre iscatty "ot "Boston

sity on Jan. 6 186

SEES Haat

Pear Before a university cae

Ritice of review to diseuss
Dr, Karol presen :

f. Harold C. Case, present
gf the university, terepboned

De, Halperin In Mexico Ue

eetetng to PAY his, expenses

t Boston and retum, Bue be

Professor declined “He Ma

Been chalrman of the univere

Stys Laub-Amertan
nhies i |



Halperin De

MOSCOW, Beph 3 (APY —

P ‘Maurice H. Halperin, former crsenization.

2 Walina Statee Covemanens ofl
FNS now Utes tn Monee’
~ lywaterday occused the atate Dem,

about bis statue bar¥.
Tn & typewritten statement,
[Mr. Halperin sald:
a | “There 12 nothing mysterious
lor dubious -ebout my .Detna Ln
‘Moscow. . Tam a vuiting

Tamerica to be. associated wit:
Heese 1
1

frnich said Mr, Malperia is now
in Mascow and ts “workin far’
the Goviet government.”

* Beaded 085 Unit H
<1! re document said _ there:
“Vere todications Sr, Halperia

giving the Soviet, gorecn~
[ment advice ao Latin-American

[adfalsa, During Worle War
hue, Halperin wes heed of tbo
HLalur Amorean divaicn of tbe
<7 United Stakes Omen of Stra!

Acts

STAR

nies Giving

Reds Advice on Latins

tani Services, an int

After ine war, Mz Halperin
08 a JBM Fevton Unie
weruity aa & profesor. He fot

Taree, OF aura mcaeibers ths sob in WS) Sean Te r=

‘been a member of
ean Communist Paty.

‘The deid, mustached S4-
year-old Mir. Halperin waa ior
Caled Sunday ina Moorow
fsoartment haus dy a neva
fran and wat wxed to com
ment on. the Stata Depait-
ment’s document,

Dretines to Btsborate

(Meacow reported there -zere
technical diMeuRies” 11 13
ime tne story until
The newsman apisienuly waa
gut od, while ying to tle
phone ‘tiie #lory >

Me. Halperin firet declined to
admit the newsman into tus
partment. Dut agreed ta meet
him later tn the. lovey cf
nearby ‘Roual were he pram-
teed (aire a Writtle ataie
ment. :

“Me. Halpenta appeared pure~

jonday.~

T Spr vo ”
aly at tne arent 5 1 ne eyauladle to the;
ran Doe Genurumest net ena boey

ty me thet the tv
Lent ad Seater suacement or on Me. Halper's)
tana the bets saiaa It GM aay Be appoared) “* ~
fa come up at tie emoassy in July apd,

There so stains invauerious Deatzort rraewed. Tha’ reauect|
in eas granted, an scabassy oS)
Tae. : :

employer. fain rt.
‘Soviet soveraey

an. American plADiats
he performs in a cureld~
Jyened concert Ma, *

aed not the fret American to
Be awocinted with 3, ax some
ct our

soy Lert very weld BOSS
ty ONEMIE ag Fesmuce!
invoive theoretical
ted to {ne ex
fof underdeveloped
neu,
that Lam “aavuine
aon Latin sAmerican
a deliberate and mA.
Liew dastorton.

“Speetdeally, Tam raking af
study of tha Lan-aeriean.
teoneeny {440° 143 to (he cz
E1988. Wren ray book 1s 349;

mie 2108



Eee

| HalperinSa ys
j Reds Not Not |
Beet Employ Him | :
a urn,

MOSCOW, Sore
mise H Malvern
andad a reparel Stat

: bi . i
erate and maikkes aston,
tion .
r
Hales:
. , associated wi

statement t9 repwctern|
ia said be is a professor}
te !

‘ing on a book on Latia Amen! |
ican exnomics ard de exl, 1
Plained the Ameria azthori- I, \
ties Answ all about cane

ty
erid War UL interac
ciatist oa Lat
fairs eas workin
viet govermment > |
Sen. Kenneth B  Nestingi!
SP baa the socezent]

red an the Cacgressionall! :
Recant) | :
“It seems to me Gat
tate Department anf Seaat:
eating are sweenize the bot!
tom of she barrel ts come up!
with iis red hernng” Hakf
Jperia said.

*TEere is nothits mestert
ous ar dubious abozt my Beings”
In Mosesw, Since my arrival, : :
Thave fied wo U.S income :
fax retums listing sy salary catecestentens
: and emplayer.

“I am rot workizg fer the|
Soviet government asy moce|
than Vaa Cuibum whea be
Performed in 2 gorernsent} : ecctth
owned concert hall? Be com
tinued. :

“I am a visiting professors
fa the USSR Academy otf
Sciences and not the frsth
American “to be associa:
with tt For the &: oft keseest
partment to say that Tam aa!
adviser to the Rissans cal
Latin American afais sa}
deliberate asd maticinas es!
tortion.

‘Specificatty, Iam mating! a
a study of the Latin Aericaa

econamy from 1985 ty te] on
crisis of 1958° eee | a



OF chance, has Stney a maor role in Simon Fraser
Soesce botessx OF Maunce Mulzonn’s fealy
Soveny yeas oti,

chsrce Bat comaead him. to seek employment
ong Ueverscy of Meuco. ft was chince that
eLNG Don 8 Dreeyoas aos! in Moscow.‘It was chance:
at WS fen to eetegchag sant nn Cuaa. And it was chance
EAGT drcargh Row t Simon Fraser seven years: age.

tune Degan wets ds Capricious latluonce over
Rsiteewonbetec. tacnwsstom

MEmghi have Daw Dom in Canada.” he says. “My father
$8026 tron, Liverpool > De New World at tno tum of the cen:
Azy, win Montrest as BS oesinzson However, ha decided
Soave Ont Boson” .

Tris was 9 “rather fortunate circumstance over which Ihad
9 eoarO.” since Atonrait at fhe bme was stil a provincial
Gry wise Easton was “a mettoois a creat centre of culture
ord loumang and 22 ts Senay tacikies were available to
mo”

Among thaso ScTios wXch he made use of wero the
Eosior Lata Schoci— a saconcary school which boasts,
such umasres 53 Banana Frarkin ona Raign Waldo Emer
San AMON ES OLS. — anc Manard University.

Ro comstetad Ks postrscu work in Paris at tho Soh
bonna wich, af that time, pas the most prect:gious university
tha Wed ond “tha engact at tad on my way of tfe and

thinking was'a perasnent coe.”
Why exenzing the Sorawe, Dame Fortune stepped in

. and “Tees epponted to M2 beculy as a Reader in North
so Amencsa Cuvitzaton Even Rough Lcame trom Harvard, the
tevel of competence ang scorusicaton of the Fronch stu:
OSa!9 was much Richer ang i nad to work very hard lo keep.
epwin dion”
Anor eamptoting his doctorate, Or. Maisern joiiod tha
fasuly at ine Unworsty of Cxanoma and found tat mid-
Stato toda “tke sooter country. Saston eng Par
wore musa closely nantes Bun were Boston and Oxiaioma’
Howaver, chance intervennd to fescue him trom what
+ Goud have deen a nude of accterent years'in-a then small.
NS remax? UAwersdy on Ine-Amenccn Prairies. tuming them
Ao ysas spent wn “aA cass = AA coture.”
Se Soa engi:
TB. was curing Ine Depression and icbs were scarce, $0
te uesescy attracted a ructer of Dngnt teachers and
fesscichers whose brs: cnooe aAQU not have been Qala
hon, :
And wha you Rine a Gra of pe03i2 the that. in addition
fo the casorunuty of mesestanang and tearniang to azzreciato
fie Wes Of mone Areca aed a was someting Inat
tay wth aa for the nest of ay ite”

Tha Socond Works Wo etemucted Or, Hi:enn's soioum
BF ho Unversity of Gustans a be jones Ie Giice of

fo

c

“COMMENT”, Dee 75 issue
(alumni. magazine of.”
Simon Fraser University
in British Colonbia.)

Maurice Halperin, Simon Fraser's oldast professor, 19 a
Aden riusiclan who has played with the Now Wostminster
‘Syniprony Orchosira. eet

Strategic Services. a special cesearch and inteliyenco
agency attached to the Joint Chiets cl Stall: 7

[Thad a front row seat in the planning of some of tha most
interastag operatons of tne war,” he Says. “I consicar my
expenences thare were af least ine equivalent of a sccand
PnD because | was associated witn a whole Group of social
Scienzsism Cerent discipines,

“Trrough this, 1 nad the reatzaton tat wa had practical
matters t9 consider in the socias screaces. as wel'a3 theo
reucal ones. Ang | teamned tha vatue of c0-op0rativa eltort
the vaxe at getting work done cn bme, and the valve of
ethcwency mn researen,

“H h2vec me to geo the relabonsn’a between tho socist
Sciences and prechcal probiems. | becama mora oriented
towara preaiesn sotving inan Inad been hetore.”



,

o

"Of McCarthyism ang this raised problems for a great number

celia Dame Fortune keeps popoing
me J a

_ "is life of SFU’s. oldest professor -

and has taken him.to Mexico, Cube,

‘ . Moscow — and io ‘best place of eli’

Attics the wer, Or. Hotperin worked with the United Nations
for a counie of years ond then joined the faculty of Boston

University where ha was mvotved in the establishment of an

Interérsciptnary department of Latin American stucies,
During this period ho visitad Brazil twico, lecturing at the
University of S20 Paulo and’ serving as a consutant to the
state government of S20 Paulo. After his second visit, he was
decorated by the Brazilan government with the Order of the
Southern Cross, pee :
“" twas then that chance Intertered agin, this time in a most
motcious way. "

“My stay at Boston coincided with the most intense.perod

of peonto at tho timo. In my own caso, | was given tho cho:co
‘of co-oporating with tho Inquisition or, 03 it turned out, lazing.
my od.

“Among other disagreeable aspects of co-operating, It
wou'd have tu:ned me into an informer against peopte who,
5 far as | know, had committed no crima. I Just couldn't think
of fecing my stucents with their knowlodga that I was an
Informer.” :

Leaving Boston University, ho went to the National Unt-
versity of Mexico City where he remained for six years. While
‘working thero, ho did some'consulting work for the Mexi¢an
Government, theredy gaining turher practical expenence
on tho prob‘ems of underdevelopment in Latin America.

This experience ted directly to his next position — athree- |

yene appointment at the Academy of Sciences in Moscow.
Halperin oxpiaina: i

* “At that time, the period when Kruschev was trying to
loosen up como of the rigid controls of Stalin's dictatorship,
fhore was a desire at the Academy to have some westem

‘oxpeitico on Latin American..developmenta! problems. In -

other words, my Mexican experience was a direct prerequk
aie for the Moscow invitation,

“It's strange how, in retrospect, what Seemed to be a

rather difficu't choice in 1953 tumed out to be very lucky.
You never know. Something happens that can crush you or,
‘on the contrary, can make you hearthier and more robust
than you've ever beenbetore,

“Aad, when the invitation amo frei Moscow, | was foot
foose end tree. My status in M was always that of a
isiting professor, so 1had rio prov... of security — tenure
‘oF gonsion, lor oxamp'e — to tie ms town. when it came, t

* had nothing to tose and everything to gan"

Dr. Hatoutin spent threo yec:s at tne Academy end found ©

tt to bo en extraordinary experience. “1 wasn't there as.a
tourist; neither was I there as an outside researcher. Lwos
cetuaily in the machine. with no permanent ties to it. was
‘working tn the factory, rather tnan just studying it"

Foto enco again intervened In his lito, this timo In the form
of tha celebrated Latin American guorrilla toader, Cho

Guevera. ae

~ was freed of concerns about job seeunity. smce hy Riu nene.

s

“Lato ono night, there was a knock on my coor and t
‘Opened it and there stood Che with a cous‘e of his Cuban
triencs, Ho had been told about me by mutual tends wm
Menico ond they suggested that, in wew cf the nued tor
Lompetent educators and social scientists ix Cuda, i mignt
be interested in accepting an inwteticn to teach at the Une
‘versity of Havana.”

As it happened, Dr, Hatzerin wes interestec. He spent the
ext six years in Cuba, and alter leswng, p-cduced'a book
Gn the Country — Tho Rise and Deciie of Fiet Castro: &o
Essay ia Contemporary History. It was pudtsned by ine Unie
versity of California Press end & second ection, in paper
back, has recently speared. (Iincidentady, Cy. Hstoerm’s
published work spans 45 ytars and “several thousand
pages.")

Aa with tho Moscow opnointment,

waa the fact that by:
+h

which allowed him to acceatGuevara'soiic. + ws
Altnough Cubs was “Aa very pizasant country,” Or. Hak

perin found lita there to be somewhat discercertng since,

“as a highly-pald foreign expert, I lived hich olf the hog ena

didn’t share tho austerity of the restot the country.

“And It was troubling, "you know, when neighbors would
krack on our Coor to sca if we could spare a thimbtclul of
Salt of a tad!espoon of cooking oil ang there we were, sitting
with everything at our disposal.”

And a further quirk of fata. naturally, brought him to Simon
Fraser in 1968..He'd met a Canedian whe in Havara angone
dey, stoul e yeo" later, ha received a ohana eat “trom aniace
called Sumady,” It was the samo Canadian inntitg tun to
participate in a seminer on Latin America, with “ad expenses
paid.” .

When ho received the invitation, in the spring of 1S68, he
had already resigned his position.in Havena ang was glonning
fo tetum to the United States the. totlowng Sestember,
“When the Invitation came, { thought, ‘Two weeks? Why ret?’,
sol accepted and cama up here and, tike the man who came
tocinner, ney couldn't gat rid of me, :

“In@véh éreemed | would end up in Canada, Teree-cusiters
of a century atter my father lett it, but f cow feel thorcucniy
essimilated to the Canadien énvironment.” tn fact, he's so well
assimilated that he is now Lsted in the Canecian.ecition of
Wino's Who.

Ouring hig welttravelied Ife, Or. Halperin has had the ors
tunity to teach at a number ct reputadic mshtutens in North
America, Europe and Losin Amenca but he soys thet he's
“never been in a more congemal glace than Smon Fraver,
never in my ite, :

“i's the dest piace, all in aft that I'va ever bat Stcents,
and faculty have it very cood here end. t'm not tvs m3 cnly
about the solendid scenery ang the mild etmste. F «vate
ieS for learning. teaching, research and recrea wa
steady customer zt the swimming pool ant imar yu.
know — cre magriticent.”



BOCUMENT TRENT IN ICAT ION,

1076

‘SOURCE INFORMATION

SOURCE CAVPTOmrie até oF nro.

foe!

LOND 74209

noe. au

PLMHBLANKET.

ERTRACT (Alea, elie docs alate
ee) GUAR HAS ROVIDED THE FOLLOWING: :
WK OMAURICE HALPER TN. BORN BOSTON, ASS. 3 MAR 1906,
WIFE EDITH NEE F RISC H, BORN 6 JULY 1907,. WABASH, INDIANA. . TWO
CHILDREN BORN 1939 (Np 1934, NAMES UNKNOWN, “SUBS IS IDENTIFIED AS
A COMMUNIST. FROM 1931 TO 1941,-HE WAS PROFESSOR. OF LANGUAGES AT
194] HE.’ WAS.SOCIAL SG LENCE ANALYST, OFFICE

UNIVE! SITY OF OKLATIOMA
OF COORDINATOR OF . INFORMATION AND IN 1945 WAS IN THE RESEARCH SECTION
OF OSs, “IN 1953 HE LEFT THE USA FOR MEXICO, ON 10 NOV 1958 HE

WENT TO AUSTRIA FROM SWITZERLAND WITH HIS WIFE AND CROSSED, INTO
CZECHOSLOVAKIA. IN DEC 58 HE WAS. BELIEVED TO BE IN MOSCOW. IN 1960 :
HE WAS IN MOSCOW WORKING FOR THE. SOVIET GOVERNMENT AS AN AUTHORITY ON’
LATIN AMERICA, IN 1962 SUBJ AND HIS WIFE WERE IN CUBA REPRESENTING

“NATIONAL GUARDIAN". -RIS CONNECTIONS: IN 1942-1E WAS EMPLOYED BY

THE LATIN AMERICA BRANCH. HE PROVIDED OSS:-AND. STATE. DEPT REPORTS TO
THE RIS THROUGH MARY PRICE AND ELIZABETH BENTLY. JAGUAR SAYS THEY

HAVE ADDITIONAL ESPIONAGE INFO IN THEIR FILES,

Indicate The Subject, Project Or east ;
201 File No. In Which This '01- 128461
Forn.Is To Be Filed.

‘suesect oF 201 (Last, Pivet, Widdle)

HALPERIN, = Maurice Hyman

128561

tiene 867 SECRET

PEOESREEESP SE SEEES SESS

Sepngur =n" gREDEnSEEGES"ESS0E="SFEER=CEEE

sen earee


®

C} unceassieteo =) Ma

© conripentiat
ROUTING. AND RECORD SHEET

7 SECREF ~

SUBIECT 0 1mm

“Incoming Pouch: Message

wom e896
TP/ANSE 4F OL
EXT. 9169- Tus’ BU3

YO: Om@e SECRET €2 IMPDET CL BY 004108
bonding ed

| mato | ronwasst

sae

eos 610A 28

SO) Secret — (() CONFIDENTIAL

“INTERNAL
USE ONLY

ob! -LASSE/

(1 UNCLASSIFIED



oe i CAUTION ~ THIS FORM REQUIRES
\ : SECURE STORAGE

Chief, SE a .
Chief, EUR Chief, LA Chief, WOMUSE __

Chief of Station, Ottawa Woe
oo _—e Leh thle

Action: FYT_-

1, FHABOVE feports that on 13 January 1976 it again spoke to Subject .

Who,althouch remains approachable, declined to elaborate on previous
_Comments conceming the 1940's: Concerning himself,, Subject said that
-hé and his wife toured Israel, Italy, Greece, Spain and England in the
summer of 1975. Work on the second volumé of his book on Cuba has
fallen behind. . HALPERIN left the impression that once the Cuba book is
out of the way, he will commence his ‘autobiography. He also expects
that Simon Fraser University will éxtend his teaching appointment to

August 1977,

2. Transmitted herewith as received from FHABOVE {s an article on _
Subject taken from the December 1975 issue of "COMMENT", the alumni
magazine, of Simon Eraser, University in British, Columbia._

2 cue
Adrian O, BAGHURS:

a
Attachment:
As stated b/w. :

Distribution: is :
\3< C/SEw/att. h/w
2 = C/A watt. .n/w (cA/e)
2 - C/WOMUSE w/att. W/W (c//K ee, )
2 - C/EUR W/att. h/w iéjseJe)©

ToSParor MES ind RE : Tour
OCoA=19102 22 January 1976

CASAC WS A Nee
SECRET T201-0128561



ee eee

at
i

Gy Rick Ryda 7
Focturo, or chance, has played a major role in Simon Fraser.
Poitica!’ Science protessor Or. “Maunce. Halper's neay
Seveniy yearsotiito,
Mt wes chance that compe‘ed him to seek employnent
with tho Notional University of Mexico. it was chance mat
Cat Ost in Moscow. it was chanca™
that led nim tova teaching sunt in Cuda. And it was chance,
i brougat him 16 Simon Fraser seven years ago,
In fact ferturie began wivicang its capricious influence over
his Mtoaven before Or. Haiponn was bom. |
ks, “I night Nava: boon vom in Canada.” ne'says. “My tamer
;, Satad trom Liverpool to the New World af the tum of the cen .
tury, with Montreal as his dastinaton. Howevor, he decided
*  te.ove dato Boston”
This was “rattier fortunate circumstance over which hod
89 Sentol,” since Monweal at tho ime was stl a provincial
ily while Boston was “a metropolis, a great centre of cukura:
3nd leuming afd a its splendid facilities were availabla
mo.”

mong those facilities which he mada use of were the
Boston Latin School — a secondary scnoul which boasts
Such luminaries as Benjamin Frankin ang Rainn Waldo Emer
“son among its alumni — and Harvara University.

non Hursesteted his post-yrdduite work id’ Paris'at mia:Son * *

+ Eoane'which, at that timé, was tne most prest;yous university
usa tho werld and “tha impact it had on my way of ile and
+. thinking was a permanent one.” ee
Vinita ctiending the Sordoane, Dame Fortuna stepsed in
and “I was, appointed to tha faculty as a Reader in Nom
” "American Civilization, Even though | ¢ame trom. Harvard, he
teve! of competence and sopristication of the French stu»
dents was much hichor and | had to work very hard to heap

up with them.”
Afar coipieting his doctorate. Or. Hatzern joined: tha

facutty af the Unworsity ot Ciianema and found that mice Atzurica Halperin,

Wesivin staig to De-"Lke anotner country. Saston cna Paris
+ Ware musa cicsely felated.tnan were Boston and Oxianoma”

However, chance: intervened to rescua him tram whet pie Seivices,” a sbeccal eesasch ang intstiyence
‘cout have been’a riumper of nauiterent years ina tnen smag | SEB Gases eee paclaserty
on ihe Amencan Prawies, tuming than Sey a porter

and remote universi
intoyezrs speatin “an asis ct high euibwre.”
Or. Haizerin explains:
“it was curing the Gepressién and jebs were scarce, so
versity attracted ainumter’at ongm tedcners and
ers whose first clicice mignt not have been Oxia

“And whan you have a croup of pedsa ike that: in ascizon
to tno cazorunity of vagerstanaing and learning to aozreciate
iho wetucs of micnta Amerca wo t was someining that
Ia yea wing for Ine fast of my ita.” :

Tne Second Worle Wer interrupted Dr. Hai>erin’s sour
8! tho University of Oxlandma ana he jones tne Gitce of

1s .

Hwa I- CceA-IGJez, Y

"COMMENT", Dec 75 issue
is (alurni rsgazine of
Sinon Fraser University

in Britisk Colombia.)

a

Simon Fraser's exdest professor, Is a
kooa musician wno has pliyes with the Now Wastminster

‘Symphony Orchastia. : cece

“Thad a front row seat n we powers cf sorie of.the mast
nretestg cporazons of the wa. fé Says. “I consider my.
excenerces there were at least Freiequvatent of a second
nd cecause | was assocuted Sa efole group of socal
Scenisis n Giferent ascomes.
nreaugh ths, | Aad te wesiceton bul we Aad oractcal
matters 1 conswer m the s0GG SORKES. as Wed 25 IhOO
rencal ones. And | learned ite “Laae cf cooperaive eltort,
the <oue of getting wom due on aoe, and ine va of
‘akhooncy in researen,

“UW neioec me to see the reUno7s=D defweos the sociat
SSenceS and prochcal problems. 4 Decatie more onented:
twar0 prcoieia Soning nan |nad deen Catone.”



: Dame Fortune ke
Un life . SFU'’s oldest professor

eps popping u2

: and has taken tim to Mexico, Cuba,
: Moscow — and to ‘best place of all’

After the'war, Or. Hatoerin worked wth the United Nations,
for a coupie of years and then joined the faculty of Boston
University where ho was mnvoWed in the estadisnment of an
Interdiseiptnary, department of Latn Amencan studies.

During this period he visited Brazil twica, lecturing at tho
Unlversity of S30 Paulo and serinng as a colsultant to the
State government of Sao Pau'o.;Atter his second visit, he was
ecoruted by the Braziian government wth the Order of the
Southern Cross.

{was then that chance interfered again, this time Ih a most
‘malicious way.

“My stay at Boston coincided with the most intense period
‘of McCarthyism ang this raised propienis for a great numbor
‘of popla at tho timo. in my own cnso, (was given tha choice
of co-oporating with tho Inquisition or, 03 it turned out, losing
my job.

“Among other disagroeable aspects of co-operating, it
would have tumed me into an informer against people who,
85 far as I knew, had committed no crme. | just couldn't think
of facing my stucents with thew knowiodgo that | was an
informer.”

Leaving Boston University, he went-to thie National Unt+
worsity of Mexico City whore he camaned tot-sixwears-While
working there, ho did some consuting work for the Mexican
Goverment, thereby gaining turner practical ‘experience
“* ga the problems of underdevetooment in Latin America.

This experience ted directly to his next position — a three-
year appointment at the Academy of Sc:ences in Moscow.
Hatperin oxgiains:

At that timo, the period when Kruschev was trying to
foosen up come of tho rigid contols of Stalin's dictatorship,
thore was.a desire at the Academy to have some western
expertise on. Latin American cevelopmental problems, In
othor words, my Mexican expenence was a direct prerequi-
‘sito forthe Moscow invitation.” -

"W's strange how. in retrospect. what seemed to be a
fattier ditticutt choice in 1953 tumed. aut to be very fucky.

You never know. Something happens that can crush you or,

on tho contrary, can make you hearer and more robyst
than you've over been before.

“Aid, when the invitation came fw Moscow, I was foots
tuose arid freg. My status in Me-. «as always that of a
wisiting professor, So 1 had no prob- .. at security — tenura:
‘or pension, for oxampte — to tie: town when it camo. {
Rad nothing to fose and everything to can.”

Or. Halperin spent threo yéc"s at tno Academy and found ”

{to bo cn extraordinary experience. “I wasn't there a3 @
tourist; neither was 1 there as an outside researcher. 1 was
ectuaty in the machine, with no permanent hes to it. | was
‘working in the factory, rather thon just studying it."

Fote ence again intervened in his Me, ths timo In the form
‘of the celebrated Latin Americsn guoris leader, Cho

Guevara.

‘

“Late ono night, there was a knoe on my door and t
opened it and there stocd Che wih 3 coun'e of his Cuban
fnenes. He Rad been told about Me Cy Mutual theres mn
Mexco ond they Suggested that, sn wew of tne reed tor”
competent ecucators and socal seen’ Fencat
be interested in accepting an mwt2'cn to
versity of Havana.”

As it nappaned, Dr. Matperin wes interested. He scent the
next six years in Cuba,-ang after teanng, produces 4 book
fon the country — The Rise and Decive of Fidel Castro: &r
Essay in Contemporary History. It was
versity of California Press and a secend eciton, in caper,
beck, has recently appearee, (Ineicentaty, Cr. Ha'oern’s,
published work spans 45 years and “several thousand
pages.")

‘Aa with tho Moscow appointment, it was the fact that he
was freed of concerns about jod secunty. since hy had rien.
which atowed him toacceptGuevara'setter.

Although Cuba was “a very pleasat country.” Cr. Hat
perin found We there to be somewhat disconcerting since,

“as a highty-paid foreign expert, | ied hugh vit tna og and
Gidn’t share tho austenty of ine rest ct tne country”,

"And it was trouding, you know, when neighbors would
Knock on our coor to Sco if we cou's Scare a thimbiefut of
Sail or atabtespoon of cooking ol and there we were,
with everything at our disposal.”

And a further quirk of fate, naturary, brought him to Simen
Fraserin 1968..He'd met a Canag'an white sn Navara ano one
ay, stout a yees ter. a received a cmone zal”
called Bumoby.” It was tho same Caaadan, inv!

Participato in a seminar on Latin America, win “ollexpenses

paid.”
When ho:recelved the invitation, in the sering of 1968, ho

had already resigned his position in Havana. and was plenning
to fetun to the United States the teowng Sextember

‘When the invitation came, | thought, ‘Two weeks? Viny net’,
$0 accepted and came up here.ang, the'the man who came .
to inner, they coutcn't get rid of me, EE

“Inover creamed! wouid end vo in Canada, Three-qustters
of a century atter my father lett it; Dut now fee! thoreuchly
“assimitated to the Canadian environment.” i tact. he’s so well.
aséimilated that hé is now listed in the. Canadian ecition of
Who's Who,

During his well:travelied life, Dr. Hatzerin has had the erocr:
tumty to teach at a number ef reputade mstivtiens.in North
America, Europe and Latin Amenca dut he says thet he's
“never deen in a mere congenial piace than Smon Fraser,
never in my tte,

crs the dest clsce, aft in af, that I've ever 30.1. Stecents
and faculty Nave it very ecod Nere ang Vim not ta =, only
edout the soieneid scenery and the m. .
ties for teoming, teaching, research
steady customer et tho swimmmng foc! arnt tne:
know — are magniticent.”

ee ayo

thing

\

es
act

ates



Cede.

Care)

Revtlew of 201 File on U.S. Cietzen

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1978,
T have reviewed the 201 file on f= (surname)
(201 number indicated below), and termined that tt “can
most accurately be categerized as indicated below:

“should be closed.

vitting-collaborator. 01 Code Ale

Potential witting collaborator; dete opened : :
OL Code Az. ieee : 2 o ee ‘

former witting collaborator (relationship terminated).
OU Code A3. 7

Potential witting collaborator never contacted (security:
Teasons, derogatory information). @£ Code Ad.

counterintelligence case (i.e-, involving @ foreiga
intelligence or security service).’ Oi Code AS.

all others. OF Code A6.°

GI] unwitting collaborator. OF Code Ay. :
Signed & int ieee 9K) D
: “ eitlej®  . ” (ecaponent)

signment. of category has: béen'entered: into STAR: « -/

OkOODoOn

: Signed . He 197
Cinitials) (ater :

This document is:'a permanent part.of this: file:

201-

ED IMPDET +

When Filled In | CL 3Y _054979
C-O-N-F-I=D-E£-N=T-1-A-L. 2



rr a
197

on ay 0

7 Revise vi G01 File on U.S: Cleizen

In sccordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974, - iced

I have reviewed the 201 file on ay (surname) -
G20) nuaber indteated below), and heed determined that it can

Bost accurately, be categorizéd as indicated below:

[] -ehoutd be ctosea. : i

wittting collaborator. OF Code Al.”
ee

{a Potential witting collaborator; date opened
<—" 01 Code ‘a2. Gereuseee 7

[] former witting ‘collaborator ‘(relationship terminated),
——~ OL Code a3.

| Potential witting collaborator never contacted (securtey-
reasons, derogatory information). O14 Code Aa. Barete
Waterintelligence Case (lve. tavolving a foreign seb
Intelligence or security service). O1-cede AS. OUEDA

Cj all others,: OI. Codé a6.

SRM.

This assignment of category has been entered tito STA

i ‘ ieee ape f : s) ‘
Signed. EAC. jist i i97,
=~ (ini tials) | (aacey i
: Tals document is a permanent part of this file. :
« : . a , 4 —,
: 201- C/ASS4I

£2 IMPDET

When Filled In CL BY 054979 :


© eh tunnation which exvas

_ Saher

foe
dana:
ONCE OCs

The Rise and. Decline of Fidel Casizo

by Maurice Halperin
(Uoiversity ct Colitornia Press $12.98)

At the end ofa pastage describing the
sephouic carly days of the Cuton Rew
Siting Master Uefperin mente:
“ARST SHAME ERE EE™ In
eilecy this atntute symbolizes his re
“'Rtion and deecoment of Chstry and
Cuda in this test wolume ofa ten-pait
shxly of the Rivwlumon from ihe fist
divs ov Fidotems ta the present, A note
nally marks
Bis novestive of the fist five years of
the reaction undivubeally comes iron ,
hig sense othe untultlied promise of
AR Jely SNK Movement, For a freat
many Western inteltectuste (including
Hielporink tus has byw a characteristig
Feacton. In the tirst evubsrant months,
R scemadl as if Cuba might boronic the
first Sociolst revnluticin to rise Seine
Lancoesly out, of historical cvedni-
oMances. net led by a tigid party
shuctuie. “aad"the firnt to proclaim »
“byes secighen.” other than the
Netuous Reescties af work noms,
iteegical conivemity anit escrifice,
Alter seweal yess of living in Cuba,
through its beat and Meakest anamente,
Thbytia feris ot this possibility is
eatingeiAed, One feels Githé wait
Nerv wich for it te suseeed? Hie Kink
is an exphination c€ why the revelution
GOL : eater
Abthouzh the curtent volume ently
euvers the fine five vers of the reve +

elution. the author ‘bevaks into’ the
chrmwey to keep the neat years’
ewnts in mind. Eeviything shout the
Pevtution was.in titer as he: sows fh, but
at the some time Contriv’
beavanhy ond atve

bungling,”
nm made sur
ini Lereoncratic sucishsm
1 imevitadie. Nothing, from
Hatvvria’s jesint o€ view, cout be a
fe thom e€ das dewvtution thiaa
PNT Cots bat be the INS Soviet

Ht Creches Re hia E
Varvin’s Base sicument is that
Cat's

at For tus,

forease per of the tewdtunen (the
AICI HH the book stiae Castiny
Tony

ettenig, bos
AE it is xowoie to say Ahad the revel
hon was pushed leftward and finally
into an alliance with the Soviet Union
by the ‘inept atid-hostile poitey of the
United States, then it is alee tivie Mat
Cuba's tute las continued. te depend
upon theintemmational steagste between
the US and the Soviet Union. WI

Casts may Have been comm
Cuban natin tisin and social reform at
homes be woh. inv
these goals by mea

‘ague and Diustery
Che Guevara figures hardly
at all By” plaing shisceinphasis elses
where, Halxorin' tells the story of the
reraluzhwy though the events whicw
viched rt thom the outside, particularly

those which ctiected its ties to the Came
munist we important wore the
Sine-Soviet 8. the wld price

of sugar, the internal buwsucratic
strugsle ef the USS, dhe chaaging,
Ameiican presidency, the isle of tie
Culon Communist Party, the CIA, end
$0 in, Gathering ts, primarily,
from magacine and newspaper aitivies,
plas his
ewvnts, be pies tigetlice viaiigting,
mading of Casti’s Speoches, policy
changes ane t
and rather “indevisive attitude of the
revlutionsy lradershap towand aitistie
an intethat pte. has
mst i herd te balance

conflicting

mist and
rreedoms by Western

ist preate
intel Wein .
Costte’s alway beva to
assert Cetace andepornd

welain abgnesnt with, th
haps this ontastiots
dowomd, @ fe e eth

Cas om

to the abrupt an

ve Inany

ees when Caxtio opted to exploit the +
Colt War aud let Rhnnshetor fet the
swhiech Halperin

fe the eomemie mes
Wat home an
Yet a necessity that
could only be met with outside help,
Castro's din impatience, inefficiency
Sand indecision made, maticre worse.
Fram the eaily attempts to industtialize »
devasta vision

{0 produce a mammoth sugar ero
1970, the Cuban ecw
argues, has cont
lovels. The result
upon the Sovi

my, the author

Castro's dependence
Umon, an adinis

is on forvign affaies
makes rood sense, but leaves
for discussion of the

ct of
reforms. on the ‘pupulation. I
makes what Castro said and did: and
the revolution itself, explicable only in
# sort of code of international affairs.
However, given the volatile nate of
Cuban politics and the Coht War, it
Still seems too early to write off the
revolution,

“James Gilbert |:

PSN ie ye

ote » aitrfites Bei


CHALSTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR
17 January 1973

Fidel Castro

‘The Rise and Decline of Fidel Castro ~ Aa
Essay tn Contemporary Miatory, by Mats

in. Berkeley, Los Angefes, Lon-

rally of Celitornia Press. $12.63.

By Pate W.

Bonsall

Maurice Halperin has been forced qut.of
{wo leaching positions at, American univer.
‘alties because of his polltical beliefs. Hg spent
three years on the faculty of the Sovtet
Academy of Sciences, went to Cuba In 1062 at
{he Invitation of Che Guevara and, though his
relations with Guevara quickly deteriorated,
‘pent six years at the Univerally of Havana,

‘Though one misht expect from’ such a
background that deeary mix of the stuffy and
the snaili ao often associated with the poler-
tes-of the far lett of fight, Professor Halpe-
in’e bock Is @ work of Insight, wit and
understanding.

In this book he concentrates on the first five
years of Castro's ute, through 1904, with &
Bequel to corhe, However, this’ volume con-
tains enourh about the later years to warrant
the use of the word “deeline" inhi ti

After streasing the.pride and optimism of
the revotution’s f1(th onniversary, he writes
that none of those present at ita celebration
could remotely Imasine the dis»
appointments and fallures that lay ahead,
‘and that onthe tenth anniversary’ of the
Revolution, there would be only bitter auster-
ty and hard-work = and the tarnished but
unflinching charisma of Fidel -:to arouse
thelr enthusiasm,”

Professor Holperin’s account’ of Castro's
fest two yents tn power (when the author was
rot yet In Cuba) ddes not give due credit to
the United States. After all, Initially Uke
United States did make efforts to find an
Accommodation with Castro, despite: the
atter’s vicicus antl-Americanism and: nis
plundering of American properties in way
fot even provided by Castro-dictated légisia
ton,

Iperin also describes the
lated exploration during the

resident Kennedy's Nie, of &
Detween the Cuban and

Nor aes hé adequately explain how, after] Professor
the poiley of acconimodation had brea'aban [washington tal
Moned, mjadicious American economic aans-|tinat weeks of 1’
flons plua the Bay of Pigs fallure lett the} nasi far discussto
presumably retuetnnt and sceptical Russland] American governinents, He belleves that lt
Preaiatce other than massive mupport for] Kennedy had lived something constewet ive
Castro and Guevara. J might have evolved from the effort. His

‘ur when ‘Castro and: Khrushchev had conclusion Wy debatable, aince fine years
become
tiny, Professor Halperin comes into his ow
Hi aeveriptian of the relations between those " During those sine yeare there the
waniite and voluble rulers ia 0 delinht. TRE deen a cooling down of American
Chairman's succender over the missiles in ld toward Cuda.
Qciober, 1962, confrontation with: President” But Castro’
Reanedy, without Informing Castro first. states has hat chanced. {la concept 19 silt
veer aess consulting him, was’ deeply hu: that his people, armed to the tect
miliating to his Cuban ally. Knowing only what he chooses to tell them,

McCue Apriver inet the suka and-atratna ob must remain biladly united around thet
vane previous {all had been Banizhed. WHAM Mavimum Lea‘ter, ready to thwart Ue plots
unconte-t2d rhetorle the two aufocents be-
aeeod tncin pedpiea and temaoives into tho aynrepentant imperialiats, "s
spectacular euphoria that surrounded ‘pais te unfortunate, -Although a return to
ae ae ula, Tow this wa cone (abut, the old association petweri the Wwe couietey
so aetaaple of Profersie Halpe: fraeither desirable cor possible the pecrye of
fin’s analyticand narrative talents. both’ sould profit from # rational retatien-

‘This exuberant reconeiltaiion dul not prove SMP. Thus will not be'eary to establish even
nating, Rhusuehev was overthrown — pers when taih Rovertmetle tte truly ready to
Hops tarlly  beeausa of fis unorofitable: fice we Ut Meanwhile in.the Upht of
nas che Involvement in Cuba. Castro's ex. Professor Halperts brilliant account: of
portol subversion and Insufrection to other “fone r ray Guba, tt scems rensonadie to
Prot ea trepubltes wos considered tactl, speculate that nereasion numbers ot Cas
cally undesirable bythe Kremlin. « tro's subjects are less willing now to entrus

‘Guevara's fatal eampalgn in Bolivia and thetr lives to the phenomenally gifted orches-
Gungr setbacks, combined with the fallure of {ater eS ana pantie _
grandiose but unsoiid schemes for Industri: tie144 _ who has been thelr abéolute ruler

ponitive development.

Siizatian and agricultural diversification at ‘
home, eonsiderably diminished Castro's since 1998, 2 A Phy
stature. : _

i Phitip Bonsot was “American Am-'. °

His downward curve was further accelera~
ted by fatlursy— after Six years: of prepara> begscdor to Cuda, 1959-1960,the first Coo
te OY ere Geiationa. o> 10. produce ten: - years af Castro’ rule. He isthe author of
million tons -of sugar in 1070 and by the - “Cubs, Castro." ‘and the United Stotes™
disruption of the Cuban economy thal effort :
had caused;, Castro's later -reconelitations,
with his Russian patrons smacked moze than.
alittle of submissions. i i

ters of the Cuban people's de pave now elapsed without any signilicant:

's attitude toward the United’
hand,

fof the ance defeated ,but stilt wickedly:
seein etc



CHRISTIAN SCIENCE soxrTsR
17 January 1973

Fidel Castro

The Rito and Decline of Fidel Castro — Aa
'ay.'tn Contemporary. History, by Mau.

Iperin. Berkeley, Los. Angeles, Lon-

Iniversity of California Presa, 612.98.

ohne. "By PAINp W. Denied

Maurice Halpérin has beet forced cut of
two téaching. positions at American univer
Mles'because of hls political belleta. Hg spent
‘ree’ yeara-on the facully of the Soviet
Academy of Setences, went to Cuba tn 19K3 at
the invitation of Che Guevara and, though Nie
Felations with Guevara quickly detertorated,
‘pent alx years at the University of Havana,

‘Though ‘one might expect from such ‘a
Background that dreary mix of the stufty and
the shrill s0 often assoctated with the polems
{ca of the far lett or Fight, Protessor Halpo.
Fin's book 13 a work of insight, wit and
“understanding,

In this book hie concentratesion the first five
years of Castro's rule, through 1966, with a
sequel to. cothe. However, this volume con
tains enough about the later years to warrant
the use of the word “decline” in his title, ~

After stressing the pride and optimism of
“the revolution’s fifth anniversary, he writes
{nat none of those present at its celebration
‘cold - remotely immagine the di
appointments and fattures that lay ahead.
And Uist on the tenth anniversary -of the
‘Revolution, there would be only bitter austen.
tty, and-hard.work — and the tarntahed but
unflinching charisma of Fidel. .to arouse

their entiiustasra. ; oo

Professor Halperin's account of Castro's

first two years fh power (when the author was
Pot yet tn Cubs) does not give due credit to
the United States. After all, ‘Intilaliy the
United ‘States did make efforts:to find an
Accommodation with Castro, despite the
ter's vicious anti-Americanism and hia
Plundering of American properties in ways,
Rot even provided by Castro-dictated legtala-
ton,
Nor does he adequately explain how, after
he polizy of accommodation had been aban:
Goned, injudicious American eeonomic sanc-
tions plus. the Bay of Pigs failure left the
Presumably reluctant and sceptical Russians
Ro choice other than massive support tor
Castroand Guevara.

But when Castro and Knrusheney had
decome masters of the Cuban people's des
Uny. Professor Halperin comes Into his own,
His de scription of the relations between those
Volatite and voluble rulers 13 a delight. The
Chatrman's surrender over the missiles in his
October, 1962. confrontation with President
Kennedy. without informing Castro. first,
amuch less consulting him, was: deeply hu.
millating tohis Cuban ally,

Yet by April of 1963 the sulks and strains of
“the previous fell had beeri-banished. With
Uncontested rhetoric the two autocrats be-
‘frused thelr peoples and themselves into the

Gifted demagogue

apectacular euphoria that surrounded Cas
{tro's vitibto Reasia. How this was done ts but
one engaging exainpte of Professor Halpe-
tin's analytic and narrative talents.

‘Thin exuberant reconciliation did not prove
inating. Khrushchev was overthrown — per
hapa partly because of Na unprofitable
strategic trivolvement tn Cubs. Castro's: ex-,
orl of subversion and insutrection to other
American ‘republics was considered: tacth,
cally undestrable’by the Kremtin. :

Guevara's fatal campaign in Bolivia. and
other setbacks; combined wiih the tatture'of
Erandiose but unsound schemes for industrt -

ation and agricultural diversification at
home, considerably diminished Castro's
atature.

ills downward curve was further accelera-
ted by fallure — after six years of prepara.
tons and exhortations — to produce ten,
mullion tons of sugar in 1970 and by the”
disruption of the Cuban economy that eftort..
‘Dad caused, Castro's slater reconciliations
with hla Russian patrons smacked more than
alittle ofsubmissions.
Wrotessor Halperin also describes ‘the.

hington-tnitiated exploration during the
final weeks of Président Kennedy's lite, of
asia for discussions between the Cuban-and
‘American governments. He belteves that if
Kefnedy had. lived something constructive’
might have evolved from the effort. Hls
conclusion 18 debatable, since nine years
Rave now elapsed: without any algnificant
positive development. :

During those nine years thera ths indeed

"Been a cooling dawn of American attitudes

toward Cuda.
Hut Castro‘s altitude toward the United
States has not, changed. His concept 13 still
(nat. hile people, armed. to the teeth and
Knowing only what'he chooses to tell them,
must remain: blindly ‘united around their
Maximum-Leader, ready to thwart the plots
Of the once defeated’ but still wickedly
cunrepentant tmpertallsts” i :
This Is unfortunate. Although @ return to
the ‘old assoclation between the two countries
tsneither desirable nor possible. the people of:
Delt’ Would profit trem a rational relation-
ship. This will not be easy to establish even
phen both governments are truly ready to
face the task. Meanwhile In the Ment of
Processor Halperin’s brilliant account of!
‘fentemporary Cuba. it seems. reasonable to:

speculate that Inéreasin
‘tro's subjects are less ‘willing now to entrust,
their lives to che phenomenally gifted orches-
trator of mass emotions — politically often
astute yet repeatedly ‘Incompetent In. somany *
fields ~ who has been their absolute ruler *
aknce 1039, : i
Philip Bonsal was American Am
bassador to Cuba, 1959-1960, the first two,
years of Castro's nite. He (x the authce of
“Cube, Castro, and the United States” 4
(University ‘Of Pittsburgh Pr 83). 4

a 20/- 12¢SG/

1g numbers of Can? ;



i - FALL DOOKS 1972

i: + + CALTFORNIA (| -

: . UNIVERSITY of CALIFORNIA PRESS c _ ee

. . at z eS a -
‘The Rise and Decline of Fidel Castro : : ie
Mauricé Halperin : : 7
“The author of this unusual book was twice or, Castro's great utopian dreams turned into
forced out of tesching positions at American nightmares, A second volume, carrying the
universities because of his political beliefs. He story down to the present, is in preparation,
spent three years on the faculty of the USS. Maurice Halperin is Profeuoe of Political
Acadeiny of Sciences and five years, from Science at Simon Fraser University, Van-”
i962"to 1968, at the University of Havana, ‘couver, B.C, :
i He went to Cuba in 1962 an tke invitation of Ri eee bea

1 Chie Guevara, who had visited him in Mos,
© Gow, and there gathered the materials forthjs, 0% €onteinporary Cubs and perhaps even
a Jindimate portrait of the Castro regime. more a remarkable series of insights into the
: Mr. Halperin coneéntrates his attention on +. RCW politics of mass society." > .
+s Castro's forcign policy, placing it i the con- Woodrow Borah. e
i text of domestic policy and conditions. Ob October LC 7p-s8279§ | ISBN + s20-02182-7 +
viously skilled in reading the new socialist’ "32s pages 6x 9° i i
i rhetoric, Professor Halperin guides the reader Walt Tea STUDUS/ POLITICAL SCUNCE/ HISTORY.
. 7 through the maze of documents, specches, Laas fons a
: and propaganda which constitute the eecord :
*. of the Castro regime during the sensational :
events involving Kennedy, Khrushchev, mis-".*

.. giles, and the CTA, Although the main narra-
tive is eonteriied with:the years 195919642
et * primarily the period of the rise of Fidel Castro *
: it contains digressions into events of the

following years when, accarding to'the auth. eee



ang. fsck.

‘h/ss Pi ee ee eee Ze : KEMESR
Sioaer ososasz waif die TEL i Uae

DIRECTOR . i bhnateios

NO. 2796 i : : :

© RF: NFva-2965

: Te AFTER LEweTay HIATUS KxCOM: “POUND HAS. PROVIDED

A/544 DATED 24 ‘JUN IS7i (RECEIVED Z| JULY) RE SUBJECT

REF. REPORT NOTES FOLLovING TWO PERSONS WHO HIGHT BE F poy’ pe
WENTICAL WITH SUBJECT: ret

As NCRRIS He ALPERN

FATHER'S NANE SOLOMON
BORN 1886, FOLAND ~
HOLDER OF US PASSPORT NO: B-246607
VISITED ISRAEL FROM 22 HAY = 22 JUNE 6a. ae res
_ Be MORRIS HYMtal HALPERIN ; A. wet
©. FATHER'S Wax HENNY
BORN: 1888} FOLAND
HOLDER OF US PASSPORT NO. A-1735875
ENTERED ISRAEL OV 13 OCTOBER 70.
2. REPORT ASKS FOR ADDITIONAL PERSONAL DETAILS ON
SU3JECT. ESPECIALLY DATE OF BIRTH AND. QUERIES IF EITHER OF

® © © ®@ © © © @:8



“

- 16 on gy
SECRET IX+53066
24th June 1972 |
A544 ye /

*\

Maurice Hyman HALPERIN

Reference John W.'s memorandum to
Joseph H. dated 4 November, 1969,

1, Unfortunately in your letter under reference

you did not mention Subject's date of birth, Our
inspection of Border Control lists show that two

People have entered ISRAEL who might possibly be

identical with Subject: og

8. Morris H, ALPERW 0 oe Ge ge
. Father's name Solomon
Born 1686, POLAND. : eae
. Holder of United States passport no. B-246607. :
Bidaitaie b ISRAEL from 20 May, 1964 ~ 22 gune :

9

db. Morris Hyman: HALPERIN 7 7
Father's name: Henny : H 4
Born 1886, POLAND ; :
Holder of United. States passport no. A-1735875
Entered ISRABL on. 13 October; 1970.

2, - Te dubject ddentical with either of the two
; c its ‘

) above

3. We should. de most gratéful for additional personal
details on Subject. :

SEBCa2xrt

D> GLE Tee Ary Hhayz



i pe mal an FSSREY on FS

Cam estcmerenat Onaramanon basstonrien wenease
Fase ATAS

wou, Sse O x0

eusery tS me mo file Hacer
ph 0 v0,

esebaasnsacnihanghaaicignt tia aT
oases» 2G AGO ran _ gaat Cie me Beer. ro eee mae tive

Eo eee

&

DIRECTOR
RYBAT RHYTON
No. 1685)
REFt (vrvu-2965, ;
1, RKCOLLAR STUDIED REF VITR GREAT INTEREST. REQUESTED a
. ANY INFO THAT MIGHT BE AVAILABLE OR COULD BE OBTAINED ON ‘POSSIBLE ,
RELATIVES KKCOLLIERK ANDy ASSOCIATION KKCOLLIER CULTURAL OR FINAN?s.
» CEAL“SUPPORT ORGANIZATIONS IN WOLADY,
“@.. DIFFICULT FOR HIM FIND ‘PEG of WHICH TO HANG APPROACH oath
WITHOUT SOME KKCOLLIER MOTIVATION WHICH Bom KKCONCERTHASTER AND by ee
SUBJECT RU-2365 HAVE EXHIBITED. | e

poe Alay Ark
oe) Noa: a: NE /ISR ore wv
be oa A : FF oh
ay ig ae a
we ow ae
ee


TOM,
SECRET,

TO NAME AND ADORESS DATE INITIALS:

Vy cer %

3 oC,

3

4

; 7

Ss} ¢/ci/sPG ~ 7 S

e : :
ACTION DIRECT REPLY PREPARE REPLY

SX) APPROVAL OisPaTcH RECOMMENOATION.
COMMENT uit RETURN
CONCURRENCE INFORMATION SIGHATURE

Remarkst

Os . sf
— wv ae
+t ee wo]
: eee
wo we OF gk
IZ,
s 5 if
owe is f
=: FOLO WERE TO RETURN TO SENDER: .
Ft NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE 10. A i DATE
C/ct/spc- 16 Oct.
UNCLASSIFIE! CONFIDENTIAL. SECRET.
Tan

ero Me Oars



je retin

four ovuen:

1. It be requested that you fake up the case af HALPERIN with
KKCOWBELL, Attached for your information and beckground is gome
biographic data and information concerning his activitios on behalf of

Soviet Intelligence. +

2. We would like you to explora with KKCOWBELL the possibt~
lity of sending one of hia officers here to debricf HALPERIN along the
Uoee of the Milton SCHWARTZ case. Tho fact that he has boon unwilling
to tell us anything and ia yet now anti-Soviet indicates that a KKCOLLIER
officer might have much better ontrao, Give KKCOWBELL aa mach of
the attached information as be seems to need to make a decision,

3, “Subject is probably still In British Columbia at tho university
mentioned, but'in any case the KKCOLLIERs should be able to locate him
precisoly through Subject's com and/or daughtor at the addresses given.
It is known that he ie quite cloae to hie children,

4, In any avent, we are intorosted in any comments or traces
KKCONCOCTER may have concerning him. ak

Ateack Chief, CI/SPG
_ Bio sheet, b/w. .

“Tapa as no mE if
NFVW-2965 21 October 1969 ‘

TASS TON ee

cep
: SECRET

TRANS i

Ee FRE ca CR ice DNST
7 File: Subject CUSPG) idek

Saal (CORDRATINS

: onthe oi ori sa_

C
[ee

SS" 59 use eammove somo
wre ee



TNITTALS.

PREPARE REPLY.
RECOMMENDATION,

CONCURRENCE

Remnarhet 7 Attacked. oe ee

MM rerice ALKENIN flere orth seb Bi

a a
2TH Rebar Errvcish AACE

on 2 M9, Ha mew es ae

ccd 4a mone aula Se raed
nebaclnd AF CIM abot TE pools Fe
Gk ho ants Fe aE Lo Coole aathny
all te poet AS Ar pieryprlea.



|
|

“S¢zechostovakia in 1957. i lair

suBJECT: « Maurlee -tys

ran: Ro! arch 1906

on, 3M

or the following informatica ia a highty-sensitive,

1. The source f
activities: in North

thoroughly: tested inforaant with knowledge of XC3
America during the Second World Wart

chief of the
S.agent while he

aurice Hyman HALPE

A, Source knew that
, was a valuable S

Latin American Division of OF
was, in 0.5.S.. .

B. Source knew three KGB officers who at various times during
the Second World Nar were responsible for directing HAL! IN and other
penetrations of the U.S. Government --Vasilij Wikhailovich ZURLLIN: aka
ZARUBIN, Soviet Vice Consul invNew York City: Pavel ante leymonovich
KLARIN, Soviet Vice-Consul in New York and Stepan Zakharovich APRESYAN,
Soviet Vice-Consul in New York.

Sg Tt is known Cron severab other sources» including Htizabeth
BENTLEY, eR Rn involved in communist activities since
see re 1920's and Nad worked for the KGW during world wae U1.

e cowsittee If he had
to Mexico, In 1953
of Science an
Ne, aidéd
S.A. to

3. HALPERIN refused to tell al. S. Se
been a CP member and in 1953 he fled from the Ss
he went to the USSR and allegedly worked for the Acadeny
Moscow University. In 1962 he left Moscow and.went to Cuba.
Alfred Kaufinan S Martha Dodd STERN to escape from the U

“AS MALPERIN'S “career can be divided'into the following periods:

1931-1941 Professor at the University. of Oklahoma
1941-194S  C.O.1. + 0.S.S.
1945-1946 Department of State i
1946-14 _ American-Jewish Conference, handlin minority: =
groups and acting as a liaison official with, the {U.N
1949-1953 Soston University. — : : ‘
1953-1958 Mexico . erect ‘ i -
1958-1968, U.S.S.R. and Cuba ae H
1963-1969. Simon Fraser University in Bufnaby,

British Columbia.

he would’ de an extremely valu-
indicated by the outline of his
he. one in which we are

5. If HALPERIN: agreed to ‘cooperate,
able source on a nuaber of topics, as is
carcer.. One of the acst important topics, and w

SeURET,



in the best position to check the validity of his information, is

that of KGB penetration of the U. S. Government, especially 0.5.8.
and the State. hepartment.

6. :MALPERIN has indicated that he is now anti-Soviet.

7, HALPERIN's son, Dr. David HALPERIN, lives at 5309 South. . .
Harper Avenue, Chicage, Illinois. : : rae

8. HALPERIN's daughter, Judith GAMORON, and his son-in-law
Rabbi Hillel GAMORON, reside at 617 North Witcomh Drive, Palatine,
Tllinois.:

9. HALPERIN is quite deaf.



wessace rom

Ay
rere corse “GEL

Caps —"* eS seeaer |

oaicy
unt, | DG/CI/SPG.

pn 7992 :
gare: 7 July 1971 an
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION Om Eromox  ( neruan to

ws nasil. CO memes rene,

a )

Seen en : "rian a it ome 7797

TEL AVIV

4

RYBAT RH¥®ON

NOv2u ; : roe
7 CWS 273-102) a

or” - —

“venoms ePACHMENT TO NFVA-2965 GAVE DPOB oF SUBJECT AS BOSTON,

REF: TEL AVIV 1624

3 MARCH 1908, AS. WELL AS CONSIDERABLE BIO INFORMATION, peated

CLEAR THAT NEITHER MAN LISTED IN REF IS WENTICAL WITH SUBJECT.

2. WILL AWAIT RECEIPT OF A/544.FOR FURTHER COMMENT.

END OF MESSAGE

Thos. Freee.
fast We Lon

DEPUTY CHIEF, CI/SPG CCOREINATING CFFCEES

racine ren [secret | [eee] “om

Sit) OFFICE 1S PROWISITED. econ na,

BeRDORNeTION RY ATER THAN THE ISS



: peseepenteets Sie ene ee
ee Tora: comes:
ow. ‘irch D. O'Neal —e
ware, C/CU/SIG SECRE CW EES aera \
an 6381 OSE ee nh
tee Tun. 3 Decenber 1908
case secevanat eciseemanon (Osx) emer oo weet ae) me
‘w. 1S mw. —__ Oxo wer mem meno, .
ca cy aE
eS #alst [_] ve core mean cr, clues.
: a Secag pi see 588 : : a
M48 99 baaidtrrtced
Pea ; a ea 7
OTTAWA : 5629¢
7 :

KEYWAY WOMUSE. : \ :
REF: OCOA 13668 a

t ae os INTERPRETATION WHICH WE SHOULD PLACE on” THE LEAD PARA IN

CONTEXT OF 1VFC PROVIDED BY WOFIRM LEAVES US. IN pouBT. HOWEVER, NOFIRM.
POSITION FOLLONS: - ee

A. OUR REF TO SUBJECT AS RIS AGENT IN SUMMARY OF TRACES
(SEE PARA ONE DIR 87411) WAS BASED ON BENTLEY BOOK AS

SUBSEQUENTLY POINTED our IN PARA ONE DIR 09986. :
" B. ALLEGATIONS IN BENTLEY BOOK AND ano, NEWSPAPER ITEMS) >
ARE IN PUBLIC DOMAIN. WE, OF COURSE, HAVE No OBJECTION To-~

SMAPOVE USING IN ANY MANNER IT CHOOSES INFO APPEARING 1]
PUBLIC. DOMAIN: ALTHOUGH CALLED THEIR ATTENTION BY US.

AGAIN ENTUASIZE, HONEVER, ‘xo WOFIRM ATTRIBUTIONS AT ANY
OF PROCEEDINGS. | : eee pee

ce. ‘Roroseh “SOLEMN DECLARATION” THAT THE OFFICER, is

“VERITARLY INFORMED" “SUBJECT (1) “HAS BEEN AND @) 1s #

CURRENTLY CONSIDERED TO BE AN AGENT OF RIS", IF USED, WE
FEEL SHOULD sor BE CONSIDERED AS SPECIFICALLY AND FULLY

[|
: usine omen a, SSG
: - se cG§ Biz EE] LL /— yee Seve)

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED,



‘pare: Bee os
phageemennneanrnrtel a

eee secertamar pisstamanod © TT

SECRET tert
 itsitcrent ie! en

Tan Torsrvs mee
et aan : : TELA le 7
SUPPORTED BY WOFIRM DATA, WE DO FULLY ACCEPT ALLEGATION SUB- 7

JECT (1) HAS BEEN: AN AGENT OF RIS, AND HAVE NO- INFO WHICH :
WOULD INDICATE HE HAS HAD.A BREAK IN FEALTY TO SOVIETS. NSVER-
: THELESS, WE MUST ADVISE WE HAVE NO CURRENT INFO FROM WHICH A
SPECIFIC CONCLUSION COULD BE REACHED: THAT HE IS (2) "CURRENTLY"

ACTIVE AS AN AGENT OF RIS. SMABOVE IS BETTER QUALIFIED THAN
WOFIRM TO COMMENT ON "CURRENT" RELATIONSHIP. AS HE IN THEIR

JURISDICTION, :
* 2.) SUGGEST INFORMAL RESPONSE TO SMABOVE CONSISTENT WITH a aerate sristitde
ABOVE, HQS APPRECIATES THAT SMABOVE IS FACED WITH TOUGH PROB- mee

. . ra
LEM .IN SEBKING PROPER MEANS OF RESPONDING TO MANPOWER AND IN-

i MIGRATION DEPT ON MATTERS AFFECTING POSSIBLE DISCLOSURE OF

SENSITIVE SMABOVE INFO (INCLUDING INFO FROM SMAROVE, "FRIENDLY

LINKS"), ‘HOWEVER, SMABOVE (AND STATION) sHoutp REALIZE THIS
1S NOT coop ‘TEST CASE” OF WOFIRM ABILITY OR WILLINGNESS TO

RELEASE INFO iN SUPPORT’ OF SMABOVE OBLIGATIONS VIS A vis {
18S anid vaiscxoeniss “(ri “THAT ovEnT

.
ry
Fy
2
1

_ sSUASING OFnera

REPRODUCT, SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING. oFeice Ive. Ontatec, cory NO,


seeee

SSCRET

efit) pice)

Co a GTA ae]

ATTRIBUTION IS POSSIBLE IN THIS INSTANCE).
BS AWARE THAT NORMALLY HQS WILL NOT BE ABLE TO MAKE ITS DEROG.
INFO AVAILABLE FOR PURPOSES OF PUOLIC USE BY IMMIGRATION. DEPT.

Lag b 1

SMABOVE SHOULD

END OF MESSAGE

mnaasee ones

SECRET | FEE]

| eh h.0 VoL

eee

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 15 PROHISITED,

OPE tO.

ol 2ysb/


i
i
:

1

ae chief, WOMUSE

Chiof of Station, _Ottava |

SECTRRYWAY/SMADOVE
Morice HALPERIN..(201-128561) iu

TERE REGAL | AU

Action: Sco bolow

References: A. OTTAWA 5447, 10 June 1968
B. DIRECTCR 09956, 20 Juno 1968

Tho following is a SNANOVE request for approval to diss
WOFIRM.dorogatory information concerning Subject, S¥A%
carriod tho request to us and mado tho comment that Ss! rs hoped
“that WOFIRM would refuse the request since the derogatory: infor=
mation could have come only from ono or two scurces and S¥UADOVS
“4s generally opposed to making public infors:

‘acquired by covert means, Although tho following do
it, a sinilar request has teen Fon

1, "in order to acquaint you and your Agency with the reason
for our request in paragraph 6 below, wo would explain that recent
changes .1n- the regulatioas of the ]
[ and tho provisions of the Rave
croated cortain proble=s,

2, "When a Special Inquiry is held by an ape Sindee Officer :
at'a Canadian Port of Entry to enquire into a pers
Af information is available to tho SMALOVE prohibiting the £
entry under tho provisions ‘of the Immigration Act, and tuis i
mation cannot bo released for security rensons, SYABOWE required
by Inmigration Regulations to issue ‘in "Solemn DSclaration™ for uso,
at the Inquiry, Shovld such on Inquiry result. unfavorzbiy ior the.
inmi¢rant, he has tho right of appeal, a

3. "In issuing. the first "Solemn Declaration”, in créer to :
provide protection for our sources, wo only made a declaration that’
wo were in. possession ‘of infornation mating, tho-cubject inelicidle =;
for entry to Canada under Section 5 of tho ImnigrationsAct, However

hes since ruled that a."Ssicax Declars=
uffictent intgrma to onable the trdividyal,
cbetng taken, ‘to hive w pheeteiamatne oppsatunkity
of knowing the nature of tho alloyationo,

= continued -
ited

it £2_pany

CSAS twa wo Be AT
OCOA-1366S
Erne)

SECRET

“YS Novester 1963"
Saravana

2011-12556)



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH |

“oO

©

f Ocoa-12668

to uso in the
Providod infor

tho minimum recuirezeat: if our do

4, "Therefore, in consultation with ‘cur
drawn up the-attached draft "Solean
satisfies the-cc

ditions set out by
ease of Maurice Hyman

mation which in

al branch, we have
Declaration" i wo fool

tho fonrd and which wo propase
HALPERIN, Ag you will ‘note, weohay

ceiaton of our Tera} branch will be
claration 4s to bo found valid,

5S. "We would thereforo requost that you ascertoin tf consider-

ation can be

Olean
mado with the

kiven to have your Ag

ntained. in Lines nino,

eney authcrizo us to include the

tea and eleven of tho attached

Declaration", The decision of your Agency should bo

understandings that th

to NALPER his =. oth

8. "our
receivo apprey.

_ Agency, since

admission at t
inherent in a
considorations
we intend to a
we aro unable
study other wa
this

case against-RALPERIN
al. for’the uso of tho
ve havo to show that 1
ta timo ho entered: Can
request of this ‘nature
your Agency finds it
dvise tha Dopartmont 6
to issvo the required
y

wt Shas
Cfactionry

Attachmont: R/W : eens

AS Statod
Distribution:

3 - Chief, EUR watt b/w

Chief,

FOMUSE w/att b/w.

and reans of overcoming our problexs in cases Of

© declaration would bo avatladle
tho. Immigration Special Inquiry
ving. :

rests on whother or not wo
information furnished by your
ALDERIN was dnclisihlo for

aca, We approctate tho problens ©
and if after wotphing all-the
inpossiblo to authorizo rele
ff Manpower and Taalyrittion that:
“"Solean Declaration" and will

va

uf <f—
D. KC CLACKIOw

thawtele

a nT



ere SOLMMN DECLARATION tet i
Seer eteerrecren terrace " .
: Yi » On officer of '*- SHABUVE a
v a \ do solemnly declare,

7 Iam voritebly infcened that

fee Hymon HA
born March 3, 1906 at :

: Boston, Nassachusstts, } ;
. United States of America,

last roported residing at 600 Smith, Avenue, Apt. 131-H,

has been ond is currontly

considered to be ‘an agent of the. Russian. Intolligence
Sorvice. Based upon thia information I believe that
Maurico Hyman HALTERIN ta a member of a class-of portons

, described in Section §, paragraph (n) 73 Immigration

i Act, Chaptor 325, R.S.C. 1953,

" I'make “this solemn declaration consctentiously

believing it to be true, and knowing that it 1a of the

same force and effect as if made under oath and by

virtue of the Canada Evidence Ast. i

|.“ + Declared before no

at

“this day of

i
i


ACTION Bra

if la no. and tills shown are 1
insort proper lilo no. bolow
document fo RID/AN.

sheet, unless it records
en OF Comments.roquir

TRE TTC

CE NUNSER «PRIMARY CODED

‘TRACE
REQUEST

15 NOV 1963



ence

tef of Station, Ottawa

SMAIOVE °
N_(201-128561). : ce aeeereeeaeeee

Action: See bolow

References: A, OTTAWA “5447, 10 June 1968 .
Be DIRECTOR 09956, 20 June 1968

|

The following is a SMABOVE request for approval to dissominate
WOFIRM dorogatory information concerning Subject, SMABOVE/26 hand= ae
rried the request to us and made. the comment that SMABOVE hoped -
t WOFIRM would refuse tho request since the derogatory infor-
mation could nave come only from one or two sources and SMALOVE
is generally Opposed to making public information that has beon
acquired by covert moans, Although the Tollowing does not montion
it, a similar request has been Bent to LNERGO and SMORANGE:

1. "In order to acquaint you and your Agency with tho. reason
for our request in paragrapli 6 below, we would explain that racant

changes in the regulations of the
Ceanealtte the provisions of tiie [Rave
created cortain problems. a .

a Ganagmen 8 Special Iriquiry is held by an Immigration Officer. ~
fE qqg2nadian Port of Entry to enquire ints a parenen admissibility,
saegnforwation 4s available to the SMASOvE Prohibiting tho immigrantis
ation seek the Provisions of tho Immigration act; and tts infor-
mation cannot be released for sécurity reaSons, SMABOVE is required
£y Tamtgration Regulations: to"issiie a *Solean Peete r eats for use
asee,tasviry. “Should such an Inquiry result unfavorably for ‘the,
immigrant, he has the right of appeal.r > cae os

3. "In issuing the-first. "soleai Declaration", in order to
Provide protection for our sources, we only made A declaration that
for curse oesession ‘of information making the Subject’ ineligible
for entry to Canada under Section 3 of the ImBigration Act, However,

has since ruled that 4 “Solemn Declara-
tion” § contain sufficient iat iun|to enable the individual,
against whom action is being taken, to Haves reasonable opportunity
of Knowing the nature of the allegations.

~ continued -

de de 2
GS BITTE BT TAR Wet e T
Ocaa-13668 : i
T COREE

SECRET _— 20L-0255081

|



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH |

ocoa-136

A. "Therefore, in consultation with our legal branch, wo have
drawn the attachod avaft "Solemn Dec tion" which we feck
satisfies the conditlons set out by the Heard and which we propose
to vse in the caso uf Maurice Hyman HALPERL As you will note, we hav
provided tnformatton which the opinion of our legal branch will be
the minimum requirement 18 our declavatien is tu.pe found valid,

S$. "Wo would therefore requost that you ascertain if consider=
ation can be given lo have your Agency autiorize us to include the
information contained in lines‘nine, ten and eleven of the attached
dratt "Solemn Declaration", Tho decision of your Ayency shuuld ‘be
mado with tho understandings that tho doclavation would be available
to HALPERIN and his counsel at both the Immigration Spocial Inquiry
and the Hearing,

6, “Our cso against HALPERIN rests on whethor or: not we
receivo approval for tho use of tho information furnished by your
Agency, since wo have to show thnt HALPERIN was ineligible for
admission at. the tine he entered Cannda, We approciate the problems
inheront,in a request of this naturo and if aftor weighing all the
considerations your ‘Agency finds it impossible to authorize release,
we intend to adviso the Department of Manpower and Immigration that
we are unable to issue the required "Solemn Declaration" and will
study..othor. ways and means of overcoming our problems in cases of

this nature,"-"

Attachmont: H/W
AS Stated~ ~

’ Distribution:
3 - Chief, BUR w/att h/w
-2~ Chief, -WOMUSE w/utt h/w

BE"sa0 scmmoses



“vat

At) att /~ C004 “L136

qT, » an officer of SMABOYE +:

—-} 0 setenaly declare,

THAT I an wWeritadly Informed that

Maurice. t ih In
born March 1908 Bt
Boston, MasSschusetts,
United—stetes of azerica,

lest reported residing at 600 salth Avenue, Apt. 132-H,
has been and is currently |

considered to te an agent of thé Russian Intelligence

i Service, Based upon this information I believe that

‘Maurice Hyman HALFSAIN is @ méxber of a class of persons

Etation

described in Section 5, paragraph (n) of the Im

Act, Chapter 325, &.S.c. 1952, i
I make this solemn declaration conscientiously - 7

believing it to be true, and knowing that it is of the

same force and effect as if. rade under oath and by |

idence

virtue of the Canada

Declared before me
acl tan CE ED
“this

Lof- 12555



Palin

RETURN TO: LYNCH
DATE: 9/16/63
File # 100-21511

A
NAME: RALPESIN, EDITH
2 FRISGY

es a i}
Born: 7/6/07 i
Indiana : ; ;

INS § AS 332 326

ADDRESS: Medellin, 36, Apt. 9, Col. Roma, Mexico
i .

op

FOL fILSES

19 SEP 1968



ore James Kevley:cs  *
wor, EBC,

EBC/C : =e 4

x R-1106 > 7 zy

can 19 June 1368 2

came secoriapar onscvmnanon i O =e sermor  (] mee ro aan ra eo
2g 12h | Op nme |) arcmin.

vessvig Cel si Glu z.; tom in
— — ee
: 3

SECRET... : .
Teen! 202 Uz dake asain
OTTAWA 2

KEYWAY WOHUSE

REF: A, OTTAWA 5447 (IN 27838)
onc clobalibacebcctsbenteeD guittgteta

B. DIRECTOR 87411.

1, CONCUR PASSAGE PARA ONE REF B INFO AS PROPOSED REF A, BASIS
FOR "RIS AGENT” IDENTIFICATION I$ INFO FROM ELIZABETH BENTLEY AS:
REFLECTED IN HER BOOK “OUT OF BONDAGS,". THE DEVIN-ADAIN COMPANY,.
NEW YORK 1951, PAGES 200, 210, 261 AND 263 THROUGH 266.

2, EMPHASIZE NO. WOFIRM ATTRIBUTION. .
* s+ 3, FYI, LAUCHLIN CURRIE REFERRED TO ON PAGES 172 AND 263,

END OF MESSAGE

BRIAR. orticna

RE2RODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.



SECRET

' [Wren Filled to)

‘re

auyanct Gory

ae)

TS vg ne Clare ores «
Fens aS ‘
. ee ‘- mi. a Cork Ne aS © Tle. (Ys eens
~—
HTTinT 2, bP aaises
SECRET [iis JUN 6S CITE OTTAWA 3a ar 1 —
eiica eters erta: 2 Dkrtg .2783€ yp?
DIRECTOR INFO JNYAVE il
i - TEs FJ
TYPIC Clee

REF’ DIRECTOR 87411
ak 1. PER RELIABLE AND DELICATE SMABOVE SOURCE, MAURICE | ;
—— : i

y “HALPERIN (251- 128561) HAS SEEN VIRTUALLY ASSURED AN GesstesiLobevete,ieeitiec a
oy maaan vino ‘
APPOINTMENT AT SYMON FRASER UNIVERSITY, VANCOWER, 2 3
/ hon Beasts jUEIVER
LAUCHLIW BERNARD CURRIE Geoa-12472 L981 VERY. BARD .
Mavarche Qs iyset)
To eee see PTED~-BY--UNIVERS EY: ~-CURR IE

fATERED_IT_ DOWN"

OF HALPERIN’ S BACKGROUND A
OF _WALPERIE” S_BACKGROUN

POSITION. : e 5 pete
2,  SHaBOVE WOULD LIKE TO BLOCK HALPERIN PERMANENT
i

AMMISSION TO CANADA AND-REQUESTS PERMISSION TO PASS DEROG

INFO IN PARA ONE OF REF TO: DEPARTMENT OF AND

: i ano ; ‘| wOFIRY wouLD XoT :
z NAMED AS SOURCE. PLS Abuses eae entatt aaron
So TANE.NO ACTION WHICH MIGHT” ComPRon Ise Source oF

PARA. ONE. ABOVE.

MICROFILMED

MUL 26 1968

Doc. MICRO. SER.

SECRET
: BT a

SECRET



osene

see

| + Se
| quasar ro me wo de ed wa

wo nf
wo Caer. ro

sass d pete:

os

w« Wiltof. WHS “Qs Sies Gee Sv
php oe a 25a tee S78 05.

2 agi \gd Chis NaGRID wv

S

Panis [vro
KEYWAY. PSK

US CITi

FROM FAVA St RIA LY 9A. Please ?

MICROFL

V2.1 ty

HCRO. s.r 5

SECRET



euassien 10 res

70 PLEAS

uses or Sen

wo Caer ro orsreoy Tas

hartfeed &

7 2PS_ FD,
a Kea GS 7

WP

Sin TR VE

agian
SECRET 2412472 APR oS CITE MADRID A775 -

DIRECTOR INFO JiMWAVE ~-

TYPIC WATCHLIST i : i
MAURICE HALPERIN PP-USA-TIT-37 ARRIVED MADRID 7 =

FROM HAVA et APRIL IBERIA FLT 942. 7 : : / ~ :

SECRET. ae a ase oa

ie BT

SECRET


!

TO more aravee CY rue min
{ ae c
=| Ri vem meter meee, 201-1 28581 “\

jen ne WHEY Eur fo aloe, :

. t
ee SE2, oelee: 2, ef

oS ECRED:
7 ie ie OTTAWA A
- : TYPIC :

: REF: OTTAWA-5310 (IN 77494)*

ve 1, FOLLOWING SUMMARY HQS TRACES SUBJ REF:

é “MAURICE HYMAN HALPERIN DPOB: 3 MAR 06 BOSTON, MASS. _-: fa : oe

AD" pescceresl ns sorsr. Zed ts pre-B baawet tates
fag Pht geretexpstsd) LATE 1953 SUBJ LEFT US FOR MEXICO IN e &

ORDER TO AVOID TESTIFYING ieee hi -_ NATE INTERNAL, SUB-COMMITTEE,

“EN 1958 MEXICA GOVT BEGAN DEPORTING vs COMMUNISTS AND SUBJ ae

USSR'AS VISITING PROF UNDER USSR ACADEVY OF SCIENCES. NovED

CUBA OCT 62 AS PROF OF ECONOMICS HAVANA UNIV, SUBJ TRAVELLED | : :

a FRON CUBA TO CANADA 1964 AND AGAIN LATE 1966.
2. HQS FILES, CONTAIN. VOLUMINOUS LNERGO REPORTING ON SUBJ: =

WHICH ASSUME THEY. WILL PROVIDE,
3. POUCHING COPIES NEWSPAPER ARTICLES PROVIDING GooD

BACKGROUND DATA,, . seeeier jee

END OF MESSAGE oer i
dorneashitey

:
i
: : ae CONTINUED :

AUTHENTICATING.

antasies ofnere ‘ore

corr xc,



== tose 2 eo)?

WH/COG COMMENT: *Requested derog traces on Maurice lyman

COONAN NG OFNCERS.

Tate na
_ eripmcrer 3 DB //
4 4

SECRET

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFIC,

LIAM V; BROE .
C/WHD ry
2
2
1
Tpeteged We ertematle aunenmexTo
Gren ag ona ‘onncee
ITED, corr No.



MOVOR MANALS - SEEN IY

eee |

we

2

RET TO ER

ene we Het 19 pears Da.

=e HE ZUR S ae
C

= ecReET PSAs SZ HHA

oseen ay fee

fc =

63,C1T

1 SIT PSE SMABOVE SOURCE sang "Pa OFE

A aun oF OF UNI SITY OF ufdtea Is iste ERESTED IN OBTAINING
ACHING POSITION IN CANADA, PER SOURCE, SUBJ 1S ABOUT

so Yea ARS OLD, CRIGINALLY “FROM U.S., AND FORMER MEMBERWOSS. 37

Agrenes IDGHTICAG wrth mages we rama assggn™ v

2.) SUB Qic3-4 $35,553-) 259 5485-2

BORN 3 SARCH CS, Tie BOSTON, SUSPECTED. SOVIET AGENT. i :
3, REQUEST SUMMARY DEROG WOFIRM TRACES FOR SHABOVE.

Lien so ALSO BEINS QUERIED.

Sai Area

LLLBT

SECRET



NEAR
IIL

SECRET

hor tee

NHALPERIN

harp (Chicago Ate Tnst: “Go), 1963.
Ofupring: Joodaa, 195;

iefdmricoe

Publications aegz: Growth aed Crisis in the Las
‘ence and Seeiesy. N-¥., Vol a5; Not, 1961: Com 7 : eee :

9 Gooprefia Ecowimics, Vaiversulad De La Hat
Us Necro Sistema De Plavifcsci:

~ Keandnicas Ea La Unibe:Soriética, Comercio
No. 4, 1964. :

a phe 7
SECREI Oui- frevol “



bas : RET : a = iad

Hace a JAnseub os Lbs i tg
ay : - ROUTING AND SECORD SHEET . : a
7 TO: ACTION BRANCH iat (span

no. and tila shown are not proper,

proper file no, below and forward

document ly RIDSAN,
YO" ALL ADDRESSEES
Tommi nts
fneeneo [won |

[stes iisse : a



furnished the following

ISCé, Neurtce
and bis wife vere
stated h
would got be en
that hey would rs
cing ats
weat oa
and pla
BAGPER TY

He CO

es CLACKIOF

are

i
|g rccerer apes
Tear meer
|



= mg ,
- anys
ae : genety a
EX - 786 .
5 Deceinber 1966
H ie -
7 | MEMORANDUM FOR THE REGORD i
ee SUBJEGT: “American Defectoré to the USSR" i cee

; i 1, “The attached material was part of a soft file entitled
: "American Defectors to the USSR", which was set up by SR/6 ;
(Support) around 1960 and mainte ined by various SR components . ie
until'ca, 1963, The compilations were derived from a variety *
of sources, and contain both classified and overt data,

2, In the ial of 1966, the fileg were turned over to CI
Staff,. In most instanées, basic information was then abstracted
fox the US Defector Machine Program, Inall instances in which
the material was unique, or represented a valuable collation effort,
it has been incorporated into the appropriate 201 file, along with

a copy of this memorantum,

3. It is suggested that any dissemination of this-data should
be coordinated with SH Division and with CI Staff (CI/MRO), in
aay view of the ficquently inadequate sourcing and of the fact that ~ ae wt
disseminations have already been made through the US Deléctox : : iseese' Tose, Sesseecesses

GG Program, : Vide : = . :

TLBeniler | caaeaet

Orig - C1/MRO . ae ae ae
1- RID/FU 7 Ge
1L- SB/RMO aes
1- CI/R&A/ILBerder ‘ si it
1- CI/R&A/chrono

: ta Ars : -> : :
i ae ae oH s Lee gd |
SLE? se

P2167 & St 2Cl- 12856



ee

2932, Already a Harvard praczat:
at OkTanana Cniversity. (8 files)

3 ntinued to direct comanist
i . fe MAXCRTina che: mKiEOae earderats Mi ecRERtSt
\aany trips to Merico to confer with aexican commnist lesders, (0 Niles)

“1940, He cashed a check dravn on the Sane of Sereign Trade, Noscow,
|tnis vas not discovered watil 1L1; see next i :

ASML. Concressional investi;
hona Uncovered the check<cas):
octation with leftist t
rsiip in leftevin, ene

ef emxxt subversive activities:
ASHE viekt to i

Vornittee, ete, (SSS, meno
ffairs, 1 august 19

ISM. Disni:
but with
sabbatical, (S85, Kéraan 5

wton reno)

ecieed to Ria by -

~y 19b2. Late in the year, Slis. eth Sent. Ley ws
0, SRS).

ite * gacod GOLOS, accarding to her 1s

ton D.C., despite nis
vecane before.the. and
an Division, (Washington Fost, 1 Sept
tler's testinory and Boek (oe

mow comme activit fas! ays

a the war) head of tha Cs? Latin ee

AO, ‘attached). According ts 3 eth

ef Sondage"), he supplied Gelos and
@ Som his O85 office, ($1,883)

19h3. Elisabeth Sentley testified that sha Aw sies hia in late Ike.
7 throvgiJacod Coles (know: Soviet azent) ani that stile Halperin wa exployed.
na OSS in wartine Washington Se gave information to Golos. (Sti), :

teaching at Foston University. (SRS, Berton’ i),

Avturn 1989. Re begs

Late 1952 oF early 2. & By this line ho Was director of Latin Axerican *
Gq nal Studies at Feston © ‘@.was susimoned to testify before the
Xx er Connittee in Saston, ‘sims Ser had nase’ Rin as one of her sovreesi
y 0 redised to say ybether he was'a conmnist. (OO

horities in cisarree~

wh an tial
being. (UC files)

25 Noventer 1953, The to0¢ alt for . ext:

He was formally ¢ississed fron

iajto avold extrsdi
AF 11097 Yei-cog704

40)- aha,



TT ed

j
a
i
|
|
i

Vin Ussr.) “Job was visiting professer under Social Seicnces Livision of ¥

) Paihie
AR 9S°3ef
Publie disclosure of his role

T Wis wire (Edith nee Frisch) to lose their
Jods. She was a teacher at the American Cchool Foundation, waile he worked
in a Mexican vovert tiie ico University ational School of

Political ané Social Horton reno):

- in the Stern affair ¢

26 wu
Hexico Ui

£195)
THE, Hérton meno} :

8. They applied for US passports at the Anerican Enbassy in

“. "26 August 1950, Their. passporbts were issued. (SKS, Horton meno). This
follored A ISTU Donrene Courtedeeision that the state Deartaent covd-not

“: dery a passport because of communist or other political beliefs. (wash Post,
1 Sept 60) ¢ |

passports were visaed by the Kexican authorities

3 of imaigrants," valid tilt 25 Be (SRS

exican Gorernxent had begun deporting US cowmn- .

28 Sopterber 1958. Thi
“te travel in Mexico In th
DRP-SE6LL, this time the
ists. (S85, Horton memo)

13 Cetoter 1958, They Veparted’ soxico. (Horton nono aid Hash Post, 1 Sep 60)
wv LL Novenber 1958. They arrived in Czechoslovakia. (oki, DaF-56611)

3 Recenber 1958. They arrived in the USSR on tovrist visas to firm up
tentative job. offer (the Soviets wouldn't commit thenselves before he actually
FR
, Academy of Sciences, on contract till July 1961; no teaching, but research and
/ handling student theses. Salary-unfavorable since in rubles, but he hoped to
compensate by getting experience am material for books also use rubles for
grand tour of .USSK before departure. (CI/SIG and SRS, DS¥~56611) ~ :

13_Decender 1958, They in Moscow as of this date but mist have com to
Leningrad Soon after, since he gaid lis job wag thore at first. they noved te

"| Hoscow some time before Wily 1960. (SRS, DBF-56611)

i; 1S July 1960. He and wife apneared at the American Kmbassy Noscow to
{ renew thst esos Passports, lio excuse for not heaving reported in.earlier, The

passports were renewed’ for .tio yenrs, to expire July 1X2. They cave their
jplegal address as Kedellin 36, lexico City,and théir current address as
{TRatuzovski Prospekt 13, apt 127, Hoscow. ‘ialperin gave tien the job inforné=

tion revarted above under 3 Decenber 1958 and indicated’ tit they intended

to loave the USSR upon expiration of the contract in-July 1961. Both: wore
,frank about the shortcomings of Soviet life. “When asked i? they wuld return
to the States in Yuly 61, he said thet their vernanent address was Nexicc.

A davphter ani ner husband and children were visiting then uxtil 3 July.
56611) 2h Avgtst 1960)

The American Enbassy requested that he apnear for an inter-
t Bis job was. He wrote on 30 Uetober sayin, that they
were just leaving on vacation and swearing that his job was not in conflict
with his US citizenship, 4 certain Hax berger (not further identified ! re=
ported that lialocrin wes cettine hicher-thanausial salary ané his passsort
should be revoked. (SKS, URA-1753, 6 February 1962)



-> SECRET

. : 2

vnion," was te be head of ono of

now in th
cen cenference of communist

s founted during:

ina, brazil, and
ably never happened.) (SRS,
SC, tree an official Swedish

ictal with high-level

service :Yea usvaliy

contacts) ::
As of Fe was reported ag a VS national lecturin: in
‘econoates Helped gather data for Che Grevara's Punta del Este

peech, - The Satcerin's son in US was planning visit ‘then in G1-but canceled
their rreat cisanpointrent. Halperin secned to recret having cone to the
sai¢ ea several cecasions he would like te return to the US; always

“Boxing” abo: leasant aspects of life in tha &

7 Sest 1982, fren 6
itoscow Cet 62 = Fed

)

passports would havo expired, requiring: issuance of
gerts actually issued - not remwved.- after Septonber
ear validity,
sé2e of new.ones,
perin spoke of 7

i
i “"yudy 2962. The

} new ones. (CAly F .

| . 1959 had the new three-vear validity instead of th® old tw
a

according te ventral Processing.) We have no reeard of xx
but it seems to have been done, because at the and of 1962
* keeping his US citisenship after moving to Cuba.

: -ltteer 1962, He was alrerdy workiig in a textile’
7 tactory and world Start: teaching at Havan: iniversity on § October. (SRS; copy
of a glnd-to-be-back,. oro-Cxban propayania-like detter personal ‘letter, written
by Halperin). They sot w dig Welcome in Cuba becavse thoy cane froa Noscow,
but it sconwore off-and the Cubans considered hia cold and pedaiitic. (SRS,
DEA-€2084, 13 Jatwary. 1964)

/, 21 Jamary 1963, Elizabsth Mora (long-time conunist) returned to Mexico

a fron @ won?a's Congress. in Havana, shere slie had seen the Aalperins, They

a had @ mansion and servants because of his Ninsortant job," but he had aged

greatly, loosed old, had to do without such amenities as undervear and socks,

was rations’ to one tute of toothpaste every. six-sionths, etc. hife said it

was Soviet treatment that had troken hii, not-Ouben, They. intended to stay

in Cuba decarse. of the friendlier climate ‘and his feelin. nore usefl there,
: She wanted to ‘ecom'a Cuban citizen so that she could it her son and his Hi
fanily Fanaa but he planned to keep his US citizenship. (SKS, DEA-34390,

26. Fed 63 :

3. Date of VIBY 3533,, 14 61623,1 a VI8W erse of eer, JONES 5

uj in touch With Talseria who in Vienna writing a Boos on the Castro impact on
f South Ane: rated hin "scurd non-conmaist leftist whthout party

ties or extreaist dopnatisn™ - ! (SRS) HE

vembe = 1963; Published article about danace to Cuba from
Seteber.” Ye reportedly. an ecenonist. eaployed by ban
» DPRS2O84, 13 Jan 64)

SECRET



porte (kesred: Faun 7
Lin fay Grady's
gece of rem
pathizerss : :

2 of hi
itchel] 1
iy porsty

Heneval was apna’
withia the EC Govt, to deny

40. The sane iNT article reported frst above gaid that he
‘tled a State Depertment rencrt thet he werkby, as an

advisor to the Sov Govt on Latin american aftaines--Said he was professor
: associated xith Academy of
W558, "Phere is nothing systertous or dubious about my being in -
ince. my arrival L have filed tvo US incone tax returns, listing ny salary
and employer, I. an not working for the Soviet, Yort any nore than Van Cliburn ne
was whon he performed in a Govt-oured concert hall, .I aa a visiting prof i
the. USSH AS end not the Nrst Aneriean to be assuciated with ite fy a-ped:
wentand my Soviet vica espire.in July 1961." :

€
Be keh bs a ee



wsetvs Olver no oa {b

cuatniee t8 FUE ny AESSIFIED RESSASE

Sal SECRET

re mio ver,

REPRODUCTION PROWIOITED,

cersreee

yoray cortes, 24
\

TevaNee COPY

Dives Circerree Frvses]

4 : : aa
SECRET 2215252 CITE OTTAWA 3605 - i a
. . ---peaettG0841 |

OIRECTOR J eae
cTypre watomtst U2 : : .
ALPERIN, DOPOS 3 MARCH 96 IN BOSTON, AND MIFE, EDITH

>ISOCH VEE FRISCH, 9PO3 6 JULY 03 IN wAnASH, tv gava, APRIVED
MONTREAL *S JULY ON CUSAN SHIP FRUCUSA, PLANNED STAY MONTREAL SIX WEEKS
FOP VISIT WITH U.S. RELATIVES, SEE OCOA-11071.

2. NILE SEND SMABOVE COVERAGE OF VISIT, IF ANY.

SECRET
* SeeAS? : :

LDP
7 1227S5G/
i 7 cent
aa 6e
Dare 220 oF



(ez UNCLASSIFIED —row a O come tat
y — > NLT

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

secret

SUBJECT. (Opronat)

FROM:

TO: (OMcw. deugnotion, mom mumbo, ond]
beings Seileteredtaatea rent COMMENTS (Heaber eoth commew oe toe
whom. Drow @ line acon cohene Ge tot commen

.Ann Egerter
CI/SIG 2B 14
2. Seymour Young
CI/Ops/EUR
2 B46
2. CI/Liaison
itt 2

Cc 35":

3 JUN tS5€
Sat, 610 “esses ) secret =) CONFIDENTIAL. J URNA") UNCLASSIFIED



To 3 Director :
Federsl Burcu of {nvestigation
Attention: Mr. 8. J. Pspich

FROM 3 Deputy Director for Plans ~
SUBJECT’ =: © Bnurice Hyman HALPERIN and wife Beith Evelyn (nec FRISCH)
Cpe ph betta nad eRe

REFERENCES: A. Hesrosndum, dated 18 Junurry 1965,
Subject: Ksurice HALPERIN; koith Erigoch H.LPERIN

B. Report’ of Darrel B. CURRIE, Boston, Hassachusétte,

# Title: Beith Bvelyn R°LPERIN, dated 28 March 1966;
- Field Office File 1990-31776; Bureau Pile 100-424134

2This Ageney requests peraission to discuss the contenta of

rete ‘morandun and report with the :
to elicit from[> info on concerning the: :
visit to Hentresl, Canudz in -ugust-Scptember 1964. ¢6 0 7" 7° t

This Agency ‘ig particularly Lloterested in the HALPERINS' where-
abouts and activities from 18 wugust to 26 Septenber. 1664 und
the possibility of their having been in contact with Canadian
Communists nt that time,

Distribution:
Original and 1 - FBI
ha H 1 - CI/SIG

Cl/Ops/EUR eee ieeeree tnerataes : ms

CI/Liaison . mua
CI/BRA

201~128561.

- B/BC/Canada

1
pacar eae
oe’

ert

2

DDP-B/BC/Canada-RNJoyner :rnj 31 May, 1966

el-7axSes



DOR RT CENTIFICATION

Cas

“ HALPERIN, MAURICE

201=.

‘°SEX-4 DOB ?

“tocar usa
| oce:?
* €USA

201-000212
EX =00816
O7 MAR 66

WANE MENTIONED. IN Ci STUDY ON NICOLAS KAGAN
#201-000212/. SEE INDEX FOR PAGE NUMBER.

FILE THIS FORA

FILE NO.

SECRET

R OrOTZSE wy tn

7 he ub
p&l.
FILEIN 201-208

7

jer EEPER? SPSSRNUSHEgSg gat tau SBN” 1S=SUnerseSESESSneeEeneeenaeal



FROM + ROME -

ACTION: we 6

WFO: (DDR, C1, ci/ors, C1/ar)
_—

t

ro a

a os
ee

TO 2 OIRECTOR

SECRET agisa:z

Ate :
DIR INFO PARI BERN GNVA MADR HAGU CITE Ri "Ee 9632_, B a
Xerway PBRUMEN LOMAYFOWL i 7

REFS DIR sasay wD
IF ANY INDICATION SU8J REF COMING ITALY. REQUEST ‘FULL DETAILS
THIS case. : : See

SEcreoer

es, COMMENT: *PRESUMED THAT HAGU AWARE (env) ‘EALEERIN. ts’ 1D/f MAURICE. HYMAN

Letina ‘KNOWN-KGB-AGENT” INVOLVED~ LGMAYFAWL~ PENETRAT 1ON-KUTW HN. =

Gk pet BAAD C567
GROUPI
FR IT THC l-
EASBYREP RBS AUTOSAT EOD

REPRODUCTION sy OTHER a THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

‘



4

201-278371_

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: Sas 3 esa Ds

WNFO

oP, cl, Ci/ors, Cifoa, Ier/si, FL, RYAN, GE, we 4, S35,
WH 7, RF ee

To

Meee. 3 res
_ EEYWAY PBRUMEN LCHAYFOWL | ut inet :
REP: 4. mAcu-a136 (IN~71802) t
B. BAGU-4038. (1N-62856) Grr To INFO ADDRESSEES)

[2+ PRESUME BAGG AWARE THAT (Hg) BALPERIN OF REF B PARA 6,8,
18 1D/W uauRice HYMAN BALPERIN (202-128561) NOW KGB AGENT INVOLVED
LCMAYYOUL JuREX PENETRATION KUT#IN, HALPERIN AND YIFE ARRIVED HABANA
FROM HOSCOW CA SPRING 1961 AFTER. RECEIVING JOB OFFER FROM FAURE

(CHOON) MEDIAVILLA (201-270370) ‘THEN CUBAN ANS. ‘TO WOSCOW. HALPERIN

2. -ED BORSTINE OF REF B: PARA 6B, ID7W- EDUARDO BOORSTEIN. aka
EDDIE BURSZTYN (201-170429) us NATIONAL AND AIDE TO CHE GUEVARA, = —~

BOORSTEIN 13 SUSPECT KGB AGENT AND’ OF CURRENT INTEREST ODENVY, i‘

3. BALANCE OF SUBS's conracts REPORTED REF B APPEAR OF SDITLAR

TLE. THEREFORE SUGGEST ‘HIS MOVEMENTS AND CONTACTS ON. CURRENT-TRIP BE
CLOSELY MONITORED AND IxFo DEVELOPED BE CABLED.

eueasine ornicen 3-14 eecnay

4. IN LicHT Fact AS OF MAR 61 ODENTY HAD ESPIONAGE CASE

EDCROIMATING CFrieeas

7 AUINENTICATING
‘Orr

+ REPRODUCTION BY O7 THAN THE ISSUING OFFIC!



Oo INDX SECRET

CG RILE IN CS FILE NO,

FROM: DIRECTOR

RR
CONF, CEFERRED.

INFO PAGE 2.

To INFO CITE OI

RUNNING AGAINST SUBJ, SUGGEST HAGU HAY WISH BRIEF LEGAL ATTACHE

BONN OR PARI ON DEVELOPMENTS TO DATE AND POSSIBLY TURN OVER TO
LEGAL ATT FURTHER FOLLOU-UP, PARTICULARLY IP SUBJ GOSS SUISSE,

END OF MESSAGE _

i :
Ce L$ Kz i sie Secu
sia Desmond Fitrgevald
W, O'SYAN 7 Chief, SAS A
OomoIMATING Grrieees > :
Wefan Foyg pein ese | “mugen

vt PREPRODUCTION 8Y OFHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED, Copy. No. K



20000

:

i.

: a CLASSIFIED pace EUs aa
- EA SERRET

iu +) pinecror (Eeeeneeee
FROM. ViEXNA : a ee “ a OX
ACTION: fos a a ee S

INFO: DOP, CA 2, CA/PEG, C1,Ci/oPS, CI/IC 2, Ci/oa, EE 4, SAS 8, S/c2

SECRET 1716002
: INS 1622

DIR INFO-BERN CITE VIEN 3538 2? uy ANS 1623
. 2? Juv es3

Brsoric aRwustC S
vile

VIEN OFFICERS “IncLUDING JOANE:

R EXTREMIST

: DOGHAT ISM. SUBJ MHILE IN-VIEN WAS WRITING BOOK on CASTRO iiPact

AS SOUND _NON-COMMUNIST LEFTIST WITHOUT PARTY

: E
ON SOUTH AMPRICAS ALSO TOLD JOANESS~ ABOUT VIsIT Mg HUNGARY |

1962 AND UNSUCCESSFUL EFFORTS CBTAIN Interview NOEL FIELD. — ‘suBJ apices

OPEN AND FRANK IN HIS DISCUSSIONS. NO NEW INFORMATION VIEN FILEs«
AY. .
ECRET™ sh “ i
belnitaliah “Ee a Me oe?

hading ano DeCCaSM:T ATION:
REPROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBiTEO. . Copy No.



i Chief, WH Divistcon

Fsvaccr

i Maurice Hyman Halper

CTON REQUALD ROTO

1. Attached is a copy of DBA 34398, dated 26 February
1963, concerning Maurice Halperin and his activity in Cuba.

2, The Station’s attention is drawn to page two which
states that Subject's wife hopes to obtain Cuban citizenship
80 that she can come to Mexico to see her son and grandchildren.
Ou the same page, there is an Anteresting, yet vague, referenca
to his treatment in the USSR.

3. Headquarters is still most interested in Bubject,
and the Station should be alert to any information it cau gather
on HALPERIN, or on his wife's travel to Mexico, which might
be used for KUDESK or KUWOLP Purposes.

END OF, DISPATCH

Distribution;
‘0&1 - COS, Mexico City, W/Att :



‘a CIA soures in Koscow

Federal Direau of Javestization
Attertian: ir. S.J. bopleh

FRG Deputy Director (ilane)
SUBSECTAC Raurice tyson HALPEAID

1, Reference is. mde-to our pat Sad Subjects “Contact with U.S. .

Refecters Atroad," dated 13 Septender 1962, :

2, Sub-psragraph 'e) of referenosd CSCI reported that at sonetine during bata
‘ SRI hed tated several tinco' to

that "he would 1iky ‘to cams back to tho U.S., and once -

aaked the souros LC he shold accept a position in Cubs which be ‘had: bean

tho. parted Ceteder 1! obrary 1962_Mauriee HAL’

orfored ty Faure CH@ES.9

3; This offies haa rooatved tho following additional repart concorning

BALFSATN frea the CIA office which contributed the original royorts

a. "On 27 Doconder 1962 another souree of this office adviood that

he received 8 1962 Chrictmas card fron Xaurics lialporin on wiich tie

address wos given as "Apt C=2, Calle 12, no 103, Kiramar, fidtana,. .° --
hristuis greatings

returs
Guba.? “The only mersaga on the card was one of 6

Halperia and tho source have known each other for a mindor of 7earo and
they abays emtange Christmas ‘cards, but this ios the first tins

Balperia's grecting has borne a Cubsn address.”

be he last tice that the souree amr Eulperin ine ta Rosoow vtion’ 69%
was visiting in the USSR during sugust—Septenber 1961-25 a member of an

official U, S. dologution.”

: are Seen ce
ds Tero te 16 record of tho Habsiia retina adress titre tnvaiitgwied

files of this office, :

csci-ayr7tlto: * :

oe: Depity Asai ctant Scoretary for Security
Departiant of state Ht

Pe

BEt~ (IESE)

geskl


_ » Sibi

CSCI=3/77h 170
H . SR/CI/DML 3 January 1
H Source: “WH=729 (00=1/87 3 266,933 from i
Distribution: orig &.1 ~ addressee .
5 1 - State

RID/AN’ for 201-128561
“1 = Comeback
Coordinated with: TH/cr

“e i
i ¢ PO /-79OSE
Betecten 3 farnee

DOr 128 sbi



. | Qab) Zou, 733-

21 Docender 1962

Subject; Current ‘Addresa of Mmrice Halperin i
em |

3. A-source of this office has Just adviesd us that he received
waa ghee Sad (1962) fro Reurice Halperin oa which the return eddress : .
Tey Aree ott APE C-2, Calle 12, no 103, Miramar, Habana, Cota.” the eee -
only neasage.an the card was one of Christeas greetings.
Gur source have Xow esch other for é ounbér of years and

" ewchange Christus cards. ‘Tais ie the first one Halperin bas’

Cuban address on it. tha Inst tine thit our source oav Hilperis-vag'

. a 7
} in woacov hes ho “(tho forver) was visiting 1m the.USSR during ‘snguat~
i... September 1961.05. part of am official TS datagation”

(pees _ 2. Th view of walperto’s
wwaking thie information <0

_ 4G alvays secas to'shov up wherever there 19 sone cort of activity ging oa-
i :
He : nde
; a ee
i en Spey oe oe
: Dae oe LP?
- : ESCI= BATTH IO an
jade b 3% ee
Ff jae :



: SEC! -
ic SS
: | COCUMENT TRANSFER AND Cross REFERENCE
: BCT er weer zi

Document bisrositioN

YALPERIN, MAURICE * ae ao ae
201- Loo). 201005239 aa

128564 °
SEX M 008°? HMMA~20077 fa
: - 24-oct 62 ae
CIT 2 |: ae corp -
occ 7 &@ FROM suBy At ele TS
LETTER DATED 2 OCT €2 FROM SuBY APT. Cx 5
CALLE 12, NO. 103 MIRAMAR, HAVANA TO... 222222222222222 22222 H

MARGARET MALTZ,

SE ERLEEEEEESTTEEE EST}
Seed daeneeeenarieags
SSSSISESSYSESSESS SS
S ObCesecccsestcces os.
PELLET TELI TESTE
cosssens

a ded 6a

S FORM IN FILE NO.


one CLASSITED MESSAGE,
UN: WH/3/Mexico { SBCRET

5940
15 Oct 1962

SUBJECT: MAURICE AND DAVID HALPERIN
1, ACCORDING To. a vosvALLy, RELIABLE SOURCE, ON 2 OCTOBER 1962
; e AMURICE HALPERIN WROTE MARGARET AND ALBERT MALT2,GIVING BIS
> NEW ADDRESS AS APT'C-2, CALLE'12, NO, 103, MIRAMAR, HABANA,
HB WAS WORKING IN A TEXTILE PACTORY BUT PLANNED TO TEACH AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF HABANA BEGINNING 8 OCTOBER. _
VETERANS’ HOSPITAL :

BIS SON. DAVID HAD A RESIDENCY iad SURGE
ISCUARGED = FOR “REASONS THAT HAD

7
t

Seven
Ct/tta.

eusaiing o

A (rakes
Ee"], seine
authenticating

peewee) epee

TOR 1389 "rp anecoee REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED, ©?” “cory No,
BOUIAZ Fh yrs


CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

pean

039
DATE or 11 OcT 62
TOs DIRECTOR

+ RE Paes cont con:

FROM 4 MEXICO CITY Ne C8 Recent Veh, Dey,
: + RY Oe ina copy tnd
ACTION ». WH & Rowse cory fled indvatrd

fx Teena essed enw
went ;

o Cl, C1/oPS,..8/¢ 2

ROUTINE

INFO.

In 38218

HR CITE MEXI 2188 8.
Se Hr gutiee
L MAURICE HALPERIN WROTE LETTER 3 2 oct uadaiee” AND raad MALTZ *

cif 8 (NEW ADDRESS APT G-25 CALLE 12, No. 103; maa wapanns

woRKING In EXTILE FACTORY me _ TEACH AT stvenstty acai te

: BEGIN 8 OCT. SON, DAVID, HAD. RESIDENCY SURGERY, a VETERANS HOSPITAL :
: “cutcaco BUT PARED LAST MONTH FOR Cae a NOTHING TO Do :

* ities

orm HIS CONPETENCE*.

SOURCES LIWUD. PASSED 10 ostnvy® saatto.

END rs MESSAGE.

ROUT. ING: |

P RID/AN |

RID,

72. Ok Ea

Aop-/2FFbE Ye
aa

reas 1389 “Eneee
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE iS PROHIBITED. Copy Na.


pt
Ro recedved a 12 Cio sts: earé, Srey Neisios

Tea Phroctes. pecenenaseenoee
Fedor-1 Suessu of Ievistindien
attoctdnr ir, 5. dei apiee

ret Reguty Mrector (tase) Pee vuatenareiae

&, Sebeyaragrayh (@) of referecod 2-C. rejerted tsb at eccatica during
‘She yerled Cetadar 160efaprary 156] Neerice UALVEL I Lod ebst
& SIL SING Ln hovdos Best “ho wid Lixe fo ana tacs bo U8 Ue ep aA ones
adhed the source Lf be atunld accept a position in Cuba wikta se ime bee

AG BAciRiensl resers cocemdiag. _
uted tio Getedaad syarer

Ni feo had Tetetvat tre fal.
Filiti frag the-cis afte suich oaks)

anole? ecane of. eda

Be °C 27

Yaz ~ 2 PO RS, dra, ao lbuy
Cabgs? “tho only necoate on tre Gard was.oie of Chrloius cresiings

WEE AS NE Bt Cady |

hadperla acd tre rare Eee: cog other iP a Ranker of rears and.
tney sleays, exthanee Christsss .¢ but iis is tne fires tine. H
Balmrin's prooting-ias bome-a ver sdtruse. | : ss

Byrive List Chea that. toe mesen en isl arin: jis: te speedW be oore
wos Flobting tn the US miring saraiteteytastar 196] 29 9 Doser of an
Offtalal iss. calacitiony Soe ana i
be There Mp no 'Fpcerd of te Histais returs stcress $4 te Inteltwees

Mes af teks eczto, i setante rite f

CRT

oor Bruty ieetetank Losratans for casurtty
Pecartcet of atcte

rovers tine! to



C6103 /77b 91 TC

Sourcor e729 (Som,
Tistributica: erig &

i- ci/afs
= IFAT, Attar

H = Sil chrone |
L-GIDAN for 201<126561
1 = Conaback

1

CH5509

Coordinated With; TAT - Sef [Red | kocarser
, Sale LP

ae

Lea) Ore

i
/
d

wef

styl Leer

}
‘


vipaee can 4-/2 0ST!
= CLASSIFIED MESSAGE | * * et 33

8s,
UT. WA/3/Maxk fH i SsBCRET
or i

1678"

1578

1, accogpisg Toa mony BAe sec, oa 28 mY 1962 wan
. ‘SEBCRIR WROTE eosin, i Br; IM CALIFORNIA “Tear maDRICE rey «
Sete eed

_ STATES SoaEi, .
2, 1 28 RLLEVED THAT THE. WORICE AUD BDITH RAFEARED To ARE

oattds : xo o? smbaas
facta 1549 (int 39708)) °°
¥

is- f ,

tay

t cooroimaring Yin


‘Sua ItCT OF DOCUMENT

, | HALPERIN, MAURICE. >> : . .. 628388 -:
i 201126561 200-005-031 : :
| | SEX M 008? OCE ~15041 PAFR . a
03 yuUL 62 Savcooon. vaaae o

it "QOAW3217235 - Conner rer
"RE LIFE OF SUBJ IN USSR. aanzgananeag2er ana
: 37.993999999793 93733”
4a SPRSTOCELECorriurry
SS_SSSSSSSSS55555955

COSbbS eneesene_osees |
PEDVLVVIVIVIDETTTIVDD :

Goze sen

FILE THIS



fer

Dat pste

NO PACES

eth:

DATE OF
INFO 1962 and carlier
PLACE & i
CATE ACA Moscov/195-61

Jens 19 UME VALU ATED na gesancn

SOURCE Cuban national, A 12 17t' 21¢, who arrived tn the U6 fr
refugee.
San fouree {5 a graduate envtneer tho cerved for a year in the tMintstry of Publ:

Works following the ndvent of the: Castro Tecine, and then vac nesigmed to
the Ministry of Foreion Relations and went to the UUsh Ss Foonorte Conase

: He was in the USS from October 1960 to Fevrusry 1961. Shortly after
tum to Cuba ke took asylun jn the Argentine Pubassy wiere he remained
Bore than a year until hic cafe-contuct ims armnget, “ig is one of
several reports from coirce.

Geis rept eaanated from the Caribbean Admtoston Senter at Opa-tocka,
Froriaac? :

1s” Prem October 1947 to Felruary 1961 I served as Economie Commelor of the
Cuban inbassy tn tue UCR. During ay stay T met ane Vecame fatrly well
~ Requainted vith a mmber of detectore fron the Weet Sneluding Douglas
 Melean, who defected from the 1, and iiauetoe 1 from the 13. I did
not neet Guy Purcesc, because I imi t6¥e thee foal
Condition due to excess drinkin. NeLean, wio ic now mown ae Frarfor
a likewise drinks heavily, and at a party the hoetece gut down on Mie Liquor
saying, "If he drtaks too much, he cete in bad shape,”

2. Meleah and Ms Sently are living in
@ nev, but not eta

3s Tat the tine tune

‘Tieonocte Affairs
fh Sgnete Attates :
. Manrtee Ralverts vas a i Pastoral, and T heltsve’ taht evononfics, ‘at a
. _ US univereity. Re sw equently worked at the ratfonal Tan: of *

Was expelled adout 1956" and vent to t! te nova le
in econcnics at Moscow Univereity, Malnerin ascteted se gather
used ty “chewuevara in hivaeech at Tinta del Este, ent Son

when the oneeck was publiuhed. 2ol- 13956 |
- -

Pf _ 62
ee

BoT Suthes Mote and: Deena, to tb sntethgens somsmoed
pamret ting watts, Hot tw bo tsccoocn

f
ry
i



HN oew

vend~

CHOON-P+To De Rene 7 Tene

Crear” i meet Tees tet)


t ane ruined
O_sunceassiFieo fant maey O cov “eatiat
eset etait ae el

na ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Oprenct)

CO sécrer’

37

ree SSC 3/77
{
i

i 4a: aa
: iy =
cr/sta “D9 14 1? fy [2
Pugh emer ene Se oom mae a
; Ramo [ovoms] AY | Sais wets

OSI copy should be passed
by Mr. Flynn;-a9 the Air Porce
has an interest in the Rand

Ss) aa

ip reattached,B, C,Neal scid this is indeed a sensitive source, . ..

Ho said that no control ld held over it and no reqs could be levied,

Halperin, former. OSS, is now in the USSR und. is knom ts be interested |
in Latin American affairs but it is not firmly known whether or not)".

this includes Cuba, ie is nov a trusted merter of the RIS.
Note, There is nope to this tut I will héve to tell you os further *—- #
putting on pape! Sci rieaily denied “rit.

in t® the. Rand Ccrporation, It is a west Coast Co.’ under contract to
‘the Air Force, . It is in fact a prporiety, company conducting’
research on all nanner of subsecta,mstly scientific and rostly long
Tango. Thad. material’ contained in the. attached was verbally passed to
the AF, by: Tony Flinn, °° a Hees ccs eee

GIA éontact' with Rand Corp, 4a Ea, Giller “Who now ‘works with Scoville,
Z have not es yet contacted bin, we on

Co CONFIDENTIAL ; (] [WIERINAL "> UnctassiFiep

Wiese 610 “Ee O° SECRET



 QLONTT

ray eae =
Sapeaa H\le hus f5elh 303
Rose W feed.

‘te of Kooye A Silai(lity, it 209 been

To Fess @ asezit 16 aes
eri We ceed,

Learned Qbét <r. Cis ite0 fant
Comnoetiest, a eovsin ef Muveles © a5 $
” 9 ceatnar fy Bich exdsal otuterte of the teu am-Lart area.
Feseber'e Peete Sousa, Steaturs, Coneeet tents 6 -20aigpicg aboat
Toto aserita wes tod ey ipof: @ yotns, Hollanececrican
leze?)7 stated. chat
Pelleisfarand, ase. these -
WAN platonooss ‘lize: “Mere poop's are kitled i
: Yonearela thse ie.Cuba"y oad 54 Loaat :
Serotuiag te hacer iss for good de Cabay eotking tm Veasguo las?

Be Acterilos 20 soarsey tio rrovious weak “Pefesech iosiavet
ned leotersd 99 tuba for seven Svera st Colesdia University, Sueree. :
fsrther rowerted tat rrofeaose 1 i to reing to Ware for tee” . ae
Fost CAS $6525 ty cel plan paliey fer fata, baericos i : ae :
{2 quoted an sayize Cero one clazet no aacorte: om Lasts teeorSoa to
fae be in ey 00, demite Ais pouty {ateut Jo), he is ommelasred

to be othe

- de Steording 40 eoares, nee Po8aT Ie
Vieto 60 Erelesesr WNa! co Kawnee cate)

4. Tt to roqsoated tant \nforea tion esttatsed inthis: Pon
Setemiales* ion recat te no firtver disseminatioa withows ee ae
Sosrdleaitah-with thin office. |

La

MUSIUTT. ere (shes)

Dirocter ef Sreesal inventigarione
ingeatr Ceneral, wt ss core

cone RO -/25 SE


Dietettations
Orige & 1 = Addressee

1 = Cepartrent of state
le the

Leth:

de cysin
D-scr/Merts

1. tw

Lo BID (2030128561)

Le ciAta

Le crylia

1 /siG /esckgerters (17 ‘Fay 1962)



€ Y
77 unctassisteo” (71, -ATERMAL : OG comenenTiat SECRET:
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

io
arson”
TO: (OPcer' dengrahon, room member, iT
bwikiing) + on bate OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
: Sas! | SPtanlate eek commen tes fon ta

7 MAR 1962

Tat. 610 “eSSS* Gy SecReT «—C) CONFIDENTIAL. <TR) unctassirieo



MIVY SECA VRG Bleestip
Feeprel Saruse of
AAourionr Mrs 2

Aeuriee yma “leipin  2e/-) D356 /
Boptcuaze .

Ouroen File kuxbor 6Fe1li30}

tee, Harcselusetts, on |
Uirin, why le
on iatia Aserica,

le Reference to’ rada to Four Peocrt,
by fecetal agent tdecrd f, Pasny
rOery WF. Your report tadtest
Testing ta Nosouw, + $:

svent yoar dcresa nas moh onde! ned 5 @O97 oP e209) :
e tenes A petty, Bole EXde Boy 3, Sewer 171, ue are Hees
ateu 8 eopp cf Eno Tame, it wiil tu mrted erat thi pabtlestion
coctsins on article ty ALLE a entitio:, Pasta aza Crisia in
+ Latlo stericsn Levavap*, wich is otetes is bee charter freq
Die fPacening bok on Latin anaricss fate

FR TH OR UET oispoRR (moms; Spaces aa

Pistribations
‘ Orbs! & Pe

lechm | ee
La Cif

