# 104-10186-10143

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10143

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

/FORMATION REPORT INFORMATION RERORI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

(ÃC BACA TAL ADA INA ESE MADATLIDA DE MATRALISO A MARID IN RAT MARDE lO AU UNAULHOLEd DATOT 1S SMADIBIIRS DE 1

RETURN TO CIA

NO FUREIGN DISSEN

Background Use Only

~ DaNad Reproduce

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUWECT Ramiro VALDES Menendez

DATE DISTR

Cs: +1- 316102308-65

7 June 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

25-311/06215-64

-pag- 1:

8 July 1961

DATE OF

1964

INFa

PLACE &

Washington, D. C

DATE ACQ.. (April

1965)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOLACE GRADINOS AME DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OR CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE

SOURCE.

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cubar. Int-lligerce

Service until April 1967.

..

Hendguarters Comments

The following refort-is one of a surtes contlining peracnality

information provided by the source and includes suppl-mental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees taks no action or any of

the individuals mentioned in the persorallty reports without

first checking with this Agency.

1.

house on sta Avenen de ween bonited en seriet the nees

souse on Ith Avenue between 66th and 68th Strat.

1s only a short distance from the Departam-nto de Liberacien

Nacional (National Liberation Department - LA) Iccated or 71.

Avenue in the Miramar district of lavana..

2.

VALDES was married to one Irina VALDES; howivor. semitir- prior

to April 1964, they were divorced.

4/p/

SE-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

STATE

I DIA

І лену

RER INCLANT

CISCSO *

Nova: Freis distribution badarsos by "I".)

NAVY

I&N'S

TAIR

INSA

FB!

2

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

INE 5 R

MICILIA

2X-2129

WELLIORI

I3UE IBRITISEIII

RF

AF.

CS

15-2

11:11:-11

5S21-316/0230+-

RIDIAN

NIVE

госли WHI

111, ME !1O: !LO: ClA. RID 1

3

2

1

---

