# 104-10433-10027

## Page 1

1104-10433-10027

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

118 - 584

26 November 1963

Disposition - This document was denied. This decument is concerned

exclusively with information received from a foreign intelligence service,

The document is concerned with events which took place in Europe sometime;

prior to the assassination of President Kennedy:

The information is ar

product of a sensitive operation conducted by a foreign intelligence service.

This is another instance of activity which took place prior to the

....

assassination which ultimately proved to be unrelated to the assassination:

The document also contains operational cryptonyms, information which

confirms the existence of several Agency stations abroad, information which

establishes the riature of Agencyliaison arrangements with a foreign

intelligence service, as well as information identifying Agency componen

and containing Agency internal filng instructions.

This denial was made

under the authority of exemptions (b) (1), (b) (2) and (b) (3) .

---

## Page 2

13-00000

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

TO

FROM

INFO

ROUTING

3 DIRECTOR

(BERN)

Sianed

R. 0. p9 C0PS1/RVA

dote:

I destruction, cite

2

3

15

DATE 2630063

TOUTING

0s,71,50, 0R

ODP, ADDP, C/CI, C/SR 5, D/OS 2,

1646

I ED

SECRET 26199TL

SIRDY

20 HOU 63 IN 6 8 344

IMMEDIATE DIR INFO IMMEDIATE

(GNA CITE BERN 2493)

CLASGIEIGATION PINE TE

CONDUCTED ON.

R2: GERY 245(10 68312)

: IMPDET CL BY 012208

FOLL STATION COMMENTS RE SUSSTANCE PARA 3 REF BASED

EXAY INAT ION OF REF MEMO AND INANITION 6 TELEPHONE ANSWERS

for EOIA Review on

Documen! Number

TO EL MARD QUER LES. -

722(DEL ICATE SOURCE REFERRED TO IS TAP OF GIBSON PHONE

IN LAUSANNE APPARENTLY UNDERTAKEN BY LAUSANNE POLICE/PTT AT INANITION

118-58

REQUEST EXISTENCE TAP NOT PREVIOUSLY KNOWN TO STATION.

APPEARS

LIKELY IT UNDERTAKEN IN RESPONSE TO STATION REQUEST FOR INFO RE

GIBSON TV CONNECTION "REVOLUTION MAGAZINE AND HIS AND ITS

CUNNECT IONS TO CHICOMS SUISSE, OR TO GATHER DATA TO REPLY TO ODENVY

REP REQUEST FOR INFO. "ANTICIPATE CAN CLARIFY THIS POINT IN TALK WITH

INANIT ION & ON 27 NOVEMBER.

20M 357301-20

1CH67012

SEEN ANSVER TO ELVARD QUER IES NANITION 6 STATED TAP INFO

PROVIDED BY AN UNIDENTTFIED INANITION INSPECTOR, THAT UNKNOWN PARTY

IN CONVERSATION WAS NOT NATIVE FRENCH SPEAKER, PROBABLY NOT A SWISS,

FROBAELY A FOREIGNER. INANITION & PROMISED CHECK WITH INANITION

INSPECT OR AND' HAVE TAPE) CHECKED FOR POSSIELE FURTHER

QLUES TO

IDENTITY SPEAKER

201-284248

GS COPM

1200-5-41

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEGET

IN/83+4 PAGE 2

4.

APPEARS CLEAR GIBSON REFERENCE THROUGHOUT CONVERSATION

IS TO ACTIVITIES OF FAIR FLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE WAITH WHICH HE

AND OSWALD ASSOCIATED.

S-CICAN NOT IDENTITY PER SÓN IN NEW YORX REFERRED TO AS LY

(MOSLE OBABLY, LEES PHONETIC.

POSSIBLE THIS COULD BE

REFERENCE TO LEE OSWALD BUT TROM CONTXT THIS SEEMS UNLIKELY.

(CAN NOT IDENTIFY PERSON REFERRED TO AS "TIBOR" (PHONETIC) O

FROM CONVERSATION CONTENT CAN NOT IDENTIFY OTHER CALLER

SPECULATIVE COMMENTS BELOW.

. MAY BE ABLE IDENTIFY OR MAXE BETTER

HYPOIHESIS AFTER TALK WITH ENANITIONS RE DETAILS OF PHONE TAP

COVERAGE INCLUDING WERE UNKNOWN SPEAXER APPAZENTLY LOCATED.

SUE CLOSE ASSOCIATE GIBSON IS FREDY GILBERT NILS ANDERSON,

BORNET FEBRUARY 33, LAUSANNE, SWEDISH NATIONAL, LAUSANNE RESIDENT,

EDITOR-PUEL ISHER. SEE ATT TO ESBA 12659 FOR FURTHER INFO

INC CONTACTS TO CHICOMS BERN AND PEIPINE. POSSIBLE THESE TWO

MEN WOULD CONVERSE IN FRENCH BUT ENGLISH WOULD BE MORE LIKELY LANGUAGE

9°

FOSSTETETTY OTHER CONVER SALION PARTNER IS JACQUES VERGES,

COMMUNIST, FORMER DIRECTOR OF LA-REVOLUTION AFRICAINE, NOW BASEL

PARTS.

NOTE VERCES CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH CHICOMLINE IN FRANCE ANg

IN SUISSE, HAS BEEN IN CONTACT WITH SWISS "CHINESE COMMUNIST"

SPLINTER PARTY CENTERED, VEVEY, VERGES, ANDER SON AND -GIBSON

2019

TASSOCIATED NEW ISSUE OF MAGAZINE PRINTED IN MONTREUX.

PUEL ICAT ON NOW BEARS TITLE REVOLUTION", SUBTITLE "AFRICA, E

LAT IN AMERICA, ASIA " EDITIONS IN SPANISH, FRENCH,

ENCL ISH.

IN ANSVER ELMARD QUERY INANITION.G STATED PHONE COVERAGE

GIBSON, CONTINUES AND PROMISED ARRANGE PASSAGE CONTENT TO STATION

SECRETS 20

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CLASSIFIED• MESSAGE.

SEMILI

IN 68344 PAGE 3

AND TENNY REP ON FIORITY SASIS. VIL DISCUSS DETAILS AT 27)

NOVEMBER MEET.

3.1à

INANIT ION 6 INDICATED REFERENCE TO LIMIT SET FOR

GIBSON DEPARTURE FROM SUISSE BEFORE 15 DECEMBER 63 RÉFERS TO

SWISS DECISION NOT TO RENEW HIS RESIDENCE PERMIT BEYOND

THAT DATE. WILL CLARIFY AT 27 NOVEMBER MEET.

12. KUBARK ONLYS ODENVY REP BERN CAELING HIS HOS MOST IF NOT ALI

OF INANITION MEMOS REF.J IN INTERESIS SPEED STATION OFFERED HANDLE

ANY TRAFFIC HE WISHED ORIGINATE BUT HE FREFFERRED HANDLE VIA HIS

PREVACY CHANNEL. NOT AWARE WHAT COMMENTS HE MAY MAKE RE CONTENT

OF CHANT TON REPORT, ESSENCE BUT NOT ALL DETAILS ABOVE INFO GIVEN

TO HIM ORALLY IN DISCUSSION PRIOR TO DISPATCH REF AND THIS CABLE.

HE PRESENT DURING ELMARD PHONE TALK WITH INANITION 6. WILL

CONTINUE FULL CORDINATION WITH HIM RE REF MATTER.

13

KUBARK ONLY& AS HINTED IN UNANITION MEMO AND ORALLY

BY INANIT TON GOTO ELMARD, INANIT ION WORRIED RE POSSIBILITY

ODENVY MIGHT FEEL UNDER SUCH PRESSURE RE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

THAT SOMENON IT WOULD LEAK INFO RE GIBSON AND OSWALD CONTACT IN

MANNER WHICH WOULD EXPOSE SWISS TAP OF GIBSON PHONE AND PASSAGE OF

INFO TO FOREIGN POWER MEMORIES OF DUBOIS AFFAIR REMAIN) •

BELIEVE

WE CAN OBTAIN ALL INFO FROM PHONE OR ANY OTHER COVERAGE

OF GIBSON OR ASSOCIATES AND PROBAELY GET ACCESS TO ORIGINAL

TAPES AS LONG AS QUESTIONS OF "COURT RECORDS" OR "EVIDENCE"

ARE

SOFT PED ALLED,

14.

ANOT HER CABLE FOLLOWS.

CECRET)

C/S COMMENT:

ARE GIBSONS ASSOCIATION WITH "FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE" AND ALSO

WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD.)

8201-2892445

(SECRET

200-5-11

---

