= ¥ im kee . 4 [non

‘104-10108-10172 Di 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992) ,
"ACTION

[MARKED FOR WNOEKING
NO INDDLING REQUIRED
‘EY QUALIFIED
MEADQUARTERS SK
AN TUDE INDEXING
‘ABSTRACT

4
Chief of Station, JMWAVE

w8eT Operational/TYPIC/AMTRUNK
Project AMT! Operational Review

PRIORITY

ACTION: -Request Headquarters decision on continuation or
termination of Project AMTRUNK,

1. . Attached herewith is an operational review of and progress
report on the AMTRUNK team:for the period of 4 through 31 March. .
Station views on the operation are summarized below.

2, The AMTRUNK operation has the following disadvantages or weak-
nesses: '

iS;

their advantage.

lop, control would

stages of the operation,
since the need for KUBARK assistance will dectease as operational
successes increase, It is believed thaiWAM would have no
hesitation "selling out" the operation to any one of the major Te-
ugee political groups at any time that he felt it advantageous to
do so. It is believed that, if he is not already doing so, he is
most likely to ‘collaborate with either the Segundo Frente del Es-
cambray, headed by Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, or the MRP faction headed
by Manuel Ray. In the meantime AMICE/27 will attempt to have his

own way with the operation,

“fate to26. i
or h a er sushor ity
eS not progress tq his Liki:

lo
to AMCAPE/1,"masterminded” tHis operatibn in the f
be assumed that the AMTRUNKS |will with!

ARMTRUNE |

ae co
Distribution: — :
3 - C/SAS w/attchs t 2 ‘DATE DISPATCHED

se

RETURNTO CIA
g Background Use Only
H Not Reproduce



fgexTon smaaou AND NUMBER

UFGA - 8381

B. This operation has Rigiieblgh lap pptenbiale 1 any AMTRUNK
agents are picked up by € Oppos on in Cuba, jot only will
KUBARK stand to suffer, but ODACID will be tied directly in to the

Operation, as‘ may also QKFLOWAGE, by whom AMTRUNK/1 is employed,
The, latter could prove to be most

Castro's hands.

C. |The. security of this operation has certain questionable aspects.
At least six people were told about the operation in varying degrees
prior to the time the team was safehoused. Two of the s
AMICE/27 and AMICE/14, did not f

be.
ng information .of an unknown nature from his KUBARK con-
tacts. An undercurrent of friction has recently developed between
AMICE/14 and AMTRUNK/3 which manifested itself in a fistfight on

29 March, This was precipitated by AMTRUNK/3 who called AMICE/14 ;
the Cuban term for a. homosexual, the ultimate insult to a Cuban. o
This in turn gives rise to the question whether AMICE/14, with a
possible history of homosexual activity (see UFGA-8411), has made

such an approach. to AMTRUNK/3.

D. The commitments made to AMICE/27 or which AMICE/27 claims were
made to him are a matter of concern to the Station. This is an
area over which future misunderstanding or aggravation might easily
develop.

E. The Phase I landing point appears highly risky. It is within
five miles of a cruise missile site radar, and in an area frequently

patrolled by sea. RABEL tens \

Prcreretr roar easement sg

tions aimed also at penetrating high militar. evels for e same
‘ven BREESE UIVOR TES Tack OF ContEsl in” the SNTRUNG ObSTeETSE ee. ie ‘of control in the Operation,

S osisttand of the two operations crossing or targetting ‘on the same

individual will be present.

3. %In examining the strengths of the AMTRUNK operation, the AMTRUNK
group as & whole represents superior agent materiel, Tyee of the
four have been outstanding in training. They appear to-have a
SMBSE SP Pairiy welt placed COREECTE "Si the inside whom they ex-
pect to be able to call on for assistance. Although they have

” been ‘out of ,direct touch with a number of these contacts for periods
ranging up to two years, this is frequently..the case in this type
of operation. The objective of the operation is worthwhile.

and ae advantages i

a Pp.
quarters' decision is to continue with the operation at this time 5 |
operational plans for Phase I and-Phase II will be submitted as ‘

formulated. 5

END OF MESSAGE »)

5 \L.

PAGE RO.

2,

580"53q _ use previous somon



q 31 March 1963
~
4 PROJECT ANTRUNK OPERATIONAL REVIEW

I. STATUS REPORT ON TRAINING AND PROCESSING, 4-31 MARCH.

The AMTRUNK Team, consisting of AMICE/27, AMICE/14, AMTRUNK/2,
and AMTRUNK/3 were safehoused on 4 March 1963 at Safesite #164
on Plantation Key.. Andrew 8, PARMERS, KUROAR instructor from
headquarters, was already at the training site when the team
was brought there by the two case officers, Irving N, PEGGINS
and Hobart J. VANDEBORN. PARMERS remained at’ the safesite
until 16 March during which time he conducted training in
clandestine methods and techniques. This training included
Security, cover and compartmentation, clandestine communica-
tions, agent spotting, selection, recruitment and management,
and operational planning and reporting. The training included
group discussion and participation in a series of ‘appropriate
operational situations, several problems, and daily physical
training. During this two:week period, either PEGGINS or
VANDEBORN visited the safesite every day, spending an average
of two or three hours with the group in operational dis-
cussions and processing. During the week of 18 thru 23 March,
both case officers spent a majority of the time with the group,
debriefing them in detail on their operational contacts, workin:
out operational details of their infiltration, and continuing
their training on an informal basis. The week of 25 through
30 March was spent in PM-type training with emphasis on compass
i and map reading, including two night problems, and on weapons
: familiarization and firing. During the period under dis-
: cussion the AMTRUNK group were all LCFLUTTERED, were assessed
by the KUROAR assessment team, were given an initial series
of immunizations, were issued clothing, were processed for
alias documentation, were processed for disguises, and were
further processed on cover and finance problems, ‘The re-
sults of the LCFLUTTER examinations were sent to headquarters
under cover of UFGA-8111, on 13 March 1963. Based on DIR
26430, no further LCFLUTTER is planned at the present time.
Transmitted’ as attachment "A" to this dispatch is PARMERS
report on his training of the AMTRUNK group, transmitted as
attachment "B" are the results of tho assessments of the
AMTRUNK group, and transmitted as attachment "C" is the
training report for the week of 25 March.

t

{9-
6

H

a

AMTRUNK MISSION OBJECTIVE

vy

Ragoved from Project
teat 7 Post 1
i]
rer ,
es

6S Clageiticnst
BBE E- 47



yo

rom power, A secondary and subordinate ~
mission is to determine the climate prevailing among the
populace in Havana for organizing resistance elements capable
of either passive or active sabotage. This secondary mission
is.exploratory in nature only, through the first phases of
the project. In order to accomplish the foregoing missions,
.the operation has been split into two initial phases, which
will.be compartmented from each other. Qne_invol:
the black infiltration of ANTRUNK/2 and Soest Reto te eeeat
of Havana province. These two individuals plan to go into

Havana for a period of approximately two weeks, and then
exfiltrate black from the same point at which they infiltrated.
ind AMICE/14, will consist of
Lt: rough the keys area on north coast
of. Matanzas. These two individuals will likewise_go into
Havana for a period of several weeks and then exfiltrate black.

These two phases are discussed in detail in following para-

make initial contacts among certain select high level military
figures in Havana. The following paragraphs discussing these
Phases are not designed to be operational plans. Detailed
operational plans for each phase will be forwarded as de-
veloped. °

III. PHASE I.

A. AMTRUNK Personnel 4

5 2, -AMUTRUNE/2 As a(21)year old Cuban who is mature for his
pont, conc Gedros experienced ta clantestane opera-
tions. He attended Catholic Social) fipiversity in Havana for
two years, majoring in Social Stud: Prior to Fidel's
takeover A/2 was allied to student elements of the Partido
Autentico which upheld the constitution of 1940, He supported
the revolution against Batista till it became apparent that
Castro had cast his lot for a Communist regime. During his
university years from 1959 to 1961 he was actively engaged
in supporting anti-Castro groups with weapons and materials.
Following the Playa Giron invasioné great many in the Havana
underground were rolled up but A/2 avoided compromise. He
continuedsin this york through 1961 and finally Left Guba,

1962, Although A/2_does not Consider

e has been ‘cooperative throughout

fis a pensive individual who displays good

+: judgement. His present attitude ‘towards KUBARK appears to

} be one ‘of "wait and see". In the meanwhile, he is con-

sciedtiously applying himself in preparation for his mission.



w o 3 -
2.4 ‘3a 22) year old Cuban,in contrast to A/2, ig
On the other hand he is
quite loyal to ‘and his quick wit is appealing to his

fellow team members. He worked under A/2 in the underground
as an action type, principally engaging in sabotage, His
underground work began while he was in secondary school

when in 1958 he supported the revolution against Batista.

In late 1960 he sided with the counter-revolutionaries and
began full time anti-Castro activities. After the crack
down following the Bay of Pigs invasion he avoided detection
and continued to engage in underground activities. Finally
when the, ituation became hopeless he left Cuba by air for
Miami th'(august 1962, While A/3 has performed satisfactorily
in his training up to date, his performance falls far short
of the other three members. A/3 ieels. KUBARK should one
punGt Aon, 8 Suppers, for shi. operation and shou. not inter.
ere in e actual plans o: ie operation. Fortunately his
role in this operation is comparatively minor and he appears
willing to comply with whatever A/2 decides, Nevertheless,

direct control of A/3 offers problems in the future

B, ‘TASKS

1." Conduct black infiltration landing at Punta La Jijira

¢ (fans 3785 I) and establish contact with the farm manager at

0° (A/s's father's) farm in the Galery section /(AMS 3885 III,
Coords 993614) .] of Ks

2. Through contacts of A/3 obtain transportation for A/2
to Guanaba or Havana.

3. 1though not definite, A/3 may remain at his Aeather's
farm|and train assets in maritime reception and clandestine
communications. Having completed this he would then be ex-
filtrated at Punta Jijira,.

4. A/2 will go to Havana and obtain safehouse and operational
support through his contacts.

5. A/2 will contact and develop two potential assets with
high level connections within the Rebel Army.

6, A/2 will train support and operational assets in clandes-
tine communications as well as arrange for transportation for
his exfiltration..

7.” Extiltration of A/2 at Punta La Jijira or Puerto Escondido
(AMS 8885 II),

pa easier oa



C, INFIL-EXFIL PLANS

D.

o

Punta La Jijira is 18 May 1963. The infiltrees will make
their way to (A/3's father's) farm one kilometer from the coast
and from theré A/2 will be provided with transportation to go
to Guanabo or Havana.

1. The tentative date Rau infiltration of A/2 and 3 at
y

2. The exfiltration of A/3 will occur three days after. his
infiltration. This arrangment, as yet, is not definite,

3. The exfiltration of A/2 is tentatively planned for 31
May 1963 at Punta La Jijira or Puerto Escondido. A/3 feels
that Puerto Escondido would afford a more secure point for
exfiltration but that a reconnaisance of the area would be
necessary. before final decision is reached. Prearranged
telegram signal would indicate his preference. 7

4, The above dates fall within a favorable moon phase for
maritime operations. In addition the infil-exfil schedule
will allow for an extra margin beyond the 10 days which A/2
considers the minimum acceptable period of time to make his
contacts., A

OPERATIONAL ASSETS WITHIN CUBA

i. Following the successful infiltration of A/2 and 3 the 24
two men will work their way to rm owned jointly vy A73re
father ‘and } locate: E'ksdonetey from the point
of infiltration. o4,They w Shake contact wit! he manager of
the farm named is (35 to 40)¥ears of age,
is married and-nas an elementary school education. He has
-no_record of underground activity. A/3 will depend upon

to make the following contacts in order to obtain
transportation to Guanabo or Havana:

ff Who lives a%ew kilometers away in
06 (Sierra del Arzobispo owns a small farm and a
8 [butcher nee in the area and also owns a truck. He is

o
08 [37 to 4Q)years of age, married with six or seven children,
He was jailed for'a brief period in the past for counter-

revolutionary activities.
06 6 7 6
b. If Ms unaneracernt in getting truck
2 g he wils contact who ates a farm. next
“06 to fa/3's father's; rarm. He js aso ars old, married,
. no Children, wife's name i ‘ob He was the(mayor of >

s
Santa ong del Norté}in 1954, He Owns a jeep.

s

19-6. #14



z

5 . 06

y .¢+ Another contact of A/3 is _| age 21,
single, 8th grade education. “He provided support in
the form of food and safehousing tg underground workers,
in the past. Higghone address is Corojo #1, Cotorro, Joo
Havana. He owns ‘a (butcher) shop in the Cotorro) section
of Havana. Subject will be contacted by A/3 ifthe needs
to be safehoused in Havana.

The following assets would be contacted by A/2 after

arriving in Havana. They will be contacted in the order
listed. Their function will be to provide safehouses and
vehicles for A/2.

a. | 28)years of age, born in Havana,
A/2 first met her when she was a student at the University
of Havana majoring in Social Sciences. Presently she
lives with her aunt in Havana and A/2 has maintained cor-
respondence with her. She has helped previously in
providing.safehousing for the underground. She also has
a car. 6 06 5

be » age 55) borg in°Havana,

He is @(physiciapjwho Lives and practices(nedicing) in
Havana .o| has helped A/2 in underground activi-
ties previously, ‘He has a brother, two daughters and

a son now residing in the U.S, His daughters live in'
New Jersey and were last seen by A/2 about six months

ago. Subject was a member of the Partido Pueblo Cubano
an anti-Batista group, and was a professor of medicine}3s
at the University,of Havana up. until 1961 when he re-
signed. 4s also a close friend of 06

~ G a
5 ggabout 0,) born in Cienfuegos, a
ormér Genator (1854) "Ss well ag the former head of’ the

0} (Railroad system in Cuba.] Subject was originally a member

Of the Autentico Party and claimed to be a KUBARK con-
fidante during Castro's takeover . has an apart-
ment and two cars and has previously helped A/2 in under-
ground activities. He has a daughter who works for the,
government but is not sympathetic to the regige. The 0
husband of this daughter, however, works for (Che Guevara]
4/2 has maiptained correspondence with
Ol 08 .) Q

a, age about @5,) born in Havana, single.
jubject is an(Englisi) teacher who runs a small private

0% (tutoring) school in(fnglisnpn Havana. She was A/2's

o%(Engiish teacher] and offered support to the underground,

° lives by herself, has an automobile and is a

close friend of A/2 and his wife.

COR Endy



]
}

~ 06 § 08.

e. | age(23-24] born in Havana, single,

1 \ mother and father deceased. She attended the University
of Havana and Villanova from isse to 1960 She became
a close friend of A/2 during their student ‘days in
Havana.oOghe has no record of underground work, She
lives in(Guanabo Beach) during the summer, A/2 felt he
might attempt to contact her if she was living at

08 (Guanabo Beach}in order to safehouse A/3 there if necessary

3, The following two operational assets will be contacted by
4/2 after he'is safehoused in Havana, Their function will be
to spot Army officers disaffected with the Castro Regime.
= A : 2)
a. age fate 30s early 405) married. Subject
holas the rank of {Captaiaysn the Rebel Army but is not
presently on active duty.0He was a friend of Castro's
during the revolution and A/2 claims he,still maintains
some contact with Fidel. He also claistt as been
working in a limited fashion against Fidex ana was
originally associated with the MRR and Monte Cristo
groups 2 |primary interest has been trying to or-
ganize his—rrie! ge within the Rebel Army against Fidel.
A/2 feels RE very discreet individual who has
not been identified as an anti-Castro organizer bv 4/
the G-2, A/2 claims to be a close friend of id
rusts him completely, ' A/2 saw and talked to 2
ot 36a }prior to his flying out of PBRUMEN as a rerugedé
7 ale ol
: _| age earty (i0s,)servea in the
08 (U's ~Army)auring World War II, COrding to A/2,
06 was _made_commander of the Sth Military District)
‘by D’Following the disappearance of
06 S$ removed from the post and pre-
senvay tives on an Army pension as well as royalties

pperty confiscated by the government, He said
|started working against Castro within the_MRP
‘under Manuel RAY. For a timehe was the(military] 0
Secretary of the MRP and became quite involved i
plotting against Fidel.o(A/2 also stated that it was
rumored at the time that vas working for the
ey eee also a KUBARK agent. Eventually
ro) 4) as nlsced on a G-2 suspect list, but according
“to A727 s able to evade detection, Subject
has good connections within the Rebel Army and re-
volutionary government, A/2 trusts this individual
and has confidence in him as_a potential operational
lead_in spite of conflicting reports which mention
jas an opportunist.

fo)



24

-7-
oa

4°. A/2 may also attempt to contact the following
operational asset if he has an opportunity to make

contact,- o6 of

| age Gate 30s early 40s,] married,
former member of the Partido Pueblo Cubano.” He
-fought With Raul Castro in the Sierra Cristgbal Area,
Following the Castro takeover he served as(head of Jes
one of the military zones within Havana province.
Eventually she was given gesser assignments and A/2
thinks heOfs now working%in INRA) in Oriente Province.
He claims assisted his underground group
during. 196I by supplying trucks for transporting
weapons and materials,

COVER AND COMMUNICATIONS
1, Cover

A/2 will be issued documentation claiming he is an employee

of a local brewery in Havana. A/3 on the other hand will be
issued documentation as a bus driver within the city of Havana.
Both will, also be issued drivers licenses and additional

items such as immunization certificates, Cuban receipts, etc.
The two men will also be outfitted with disguises.

2, Communications

Primary communications will be established through an SW
system. Both men will be given SW instruction and will be
issued accommodation addresses in Miami. This instruction
and these addresses in turn will be passed on to the recruited
assets in PBRUMEN for use as the operation develops. Pre-
arranged signals will also be devised for use by the team via
telegram to indicate their progress and confirm their place
and time of exfiltration. Both members will also be given an
OWL system to provide them with quick instructions in case

of an emergency,

OPERATIONAL AND SECURITY EVALUATION

1. The operational aspects of Phase I portrays a mission which
has considerable potential but’also considerable risk, The
area of infiltration is within five miles of a cruise missile
site and its accompanying radar. .In addition boat patrols are
Known to work this portion of the coast at frequent intervals.
Once-jnfiltrated the team will not have to travel far before
heir ‘first contact. However, A/3 is leary of staying at his
‘ther's farm)for any length of time and he does not want his

74 (Zather)}to know of his presence in Cuba. For this reason the

"farm will not be able to serve as a safehouse. A/2 plans on
leaving the farm the same da lands. This presents the

Problem of what to do \wi't! a On approach is to take A/3



+ een aemenaeT

.
td Guanabo or Havana and safehouse him. This, however, may
jeopardize the operation because A/3 lacks the maturity and
Patience necessary to stay put while A/2 goes about his busi-
ness. He may take advantage of his visit to Havana to under-
take a clandestine assignment on his own, When A/2 and 3
step ashore in Cuba, control will vanish. Fortunately A/2
has a sufficient resource of judgement to go about his busi-
ness competently, Unfortunately A/3 gives no such indication,
For this reason an attempt will be made to steer A/3 towards
developing assets around his(father's farmJwith maritime
reception capabilities. zy

2, A/2, on the other hand, appears to have a sufficient -numbe:
of supporting assets tg provide for his*kafety while in Havana
However, he has not. sei ki ani for over a year, In
addition both men are presently outsrae of the Cuban Army
organization and this position may dampen their effectiveness
in recruiting within the Army. / Station reports ¢ con-
flict with A/2's evaluation of@this man. While there is no
evidence to verify that jis pro-regime, these hag been
a recent report on him from AMLEO/3 which claims is an
opportunist who might work for the highess bidder.oyasz's
rebuttal to these remarks is that s assisted him in
the past’ and when the chips were down he continued to aid him
in his underground activities.olThis still leaves a question
mark next to the worth of Which unfortunately can only
be resolved by direct contact between him and A/2, There are
other security implications which should be discussed in this
evaluation, Both A/2 and A/3 cannot be considered truly se-
curity’ conscious. While safehoused A/2 wrote a letter to a
contact in Miami which was to be transmitted by his case
officer, The letter gave an indication that A/2 was seeking
contacts in Havana and conveyed the impression that a trip
was in thedfing. A/2 has written several other letters

not seen by his C Os which might have given the same impres-
Ad3_on the other hand

aiion vo four friends in New gto
Ua pusdbeine salshoused 7 ha Was "JOThing

re Was
on an operation that would take them

first Miami and nem to Cuba. Once there they would go
to his\father's farm)and begin to make contacts. 4/3 also
stated at a man nained ould be one of their con-

tacts, This loose talk coupied with A/3's attitude that
KUBARK exists only to serve him makes him a marginal candi-
date for this operation. However, if A/3 is exfiltrated

‘three -days after his entry into Cuba, the operation will
-gain,his usefulness and eliminate some of the risk he

presents.



-2-
3.1. ‘The above evaluation stresses the operational and security
weaknesses in this operation. In contrast to these weaknesses
are the positive considerations of this mission. A/2 has the
intelligence, competence, and confidence to approach and re-
cruit two assets with the potential for developing anti-regime
operations. at a high level within the Cuban Army, The results
which ‘these anti-regime activities can accomplish is a matter
for conjecture but it appears that they carry potential.
Nevertheless, if the operation continues, it will bear close
watching. in terms of security and control for these factors
will jeopardize the operation as well as KUBARK's position

if not properly contained.

Iv. PHASE II
A. AMTRUNK PERSONNEL
SESRUNK PERSONNEL

1 isa 41
year o. rom a wealthy family.
His father, now deceased, was a prominent individual in law
and politics and was at one time a senator, A/27 himself
graduated from law school in Habana and was a practising
lawyer. In 1959 he became legal adviser to Camilio Cienfuegos.
Following the disappearance of Cienfuegos in October 1959,
4/27 began to engage in counter-revolutionary activities,
in May 1961, at which time he held the position of Under—
Secretary of Public Works, he felt that his underground
activities. had come to the attention of the government and
he took refuge along with his wife in the Venezuelan Embassy.
He was given safe conduct from the Embassy to PBPRIME in late
1961, Subject is intelligent, articulate, and highly moti-
vated, He-has some experience in: counter—revolutionary
activities and has demonstrated an excellent capacity for
learning clandestine techniques. He has a very large ego,
and aristocratic pride, is very sensitive, and is quick to
take offense. s_frank to state th h
: K.that he ts not @
ation th

re
ry and that he will accept KUBARK aid
and advice but will not accept KUBARK control. His attitude
although not hostile, is frequently critical, and he pre-
sents a difficult handling problem.

2. . AMICE/14 is a 26 year old Cuban citizen who is also a
Yaw graduate of the University of Havana, He has been in-
‘volved much of his adult life in clandestine activities.
Subject arrived by small boat in June 1961 in PBPRIME.He
is highly motivated, is intelligent and objective, and has
,@ very highly developed security consciousness, developed
from his counter-revolutionary experiences. From January
to July 1961 he made geigef iltration/exfiltration
trips to and from Cubsmes and has an excellent
# knowledge of.the nortf@een fae area. He is easy to work

he



- 10

with and has evidenced “hittle of the hostilities or anti-
KUBARK feelings shown by AMICE/27

Oo
+ AMTRUNK/4, Subject is a 49]year old fisherman from the
06 Cardenasjarea who took refuge in PBPRIME in February 1963,

. He had previously assisted A/14 in infils and exfils and will
2 be used as a maritime guide,

B. TASKS

1. Make preliminary black maritime infiltration by small
boat onto Cinco Leguas Key (AMS Map 4085 III) to contact
individuals who formerly assisted AMICE/14 in infil-exfil
‘operations.

2. . Through contacts on Cinco Leguas Key, organize a ratline
: into the mainland, including making arrangements for trans—
} : portation into Havana. ; ‘

3. Through the mechanism established above, move to Havana
and obtain safehousing and operational support,

4. Make ‘all necessary arrangements for subsequent exfil-
tration and future infiltrations.

5. Approach and recruit two key individuals with contacts
among important military figures,

6. Establish internal and external communications.
7.. Exfiltrate from Phase Il.
C, INFIL-EXFIL PLANS

It 4 MICE/27, AMICE/14,
and nto the Cinco Leguas eye" area on’ or about
Zo April, Subjects will take a small boat with silent motor
ates deca and remain in the area for approximately
three days, during which time they will remain black, keep
the boat hidden in the mangroves, and contact individuals
known to them on Cinco Leguas. They will make arrangements
with contacts at that point to re-activate contacts of AMICE/14
on the mainland at Casualidad (Map 4085 III, Grid Square 1747)
and contacts in the town of Marti and Cardenas. P
vorked e hese conta

and AMICE/14 will again go into Cinco Leguas and expect to be
‘passed on through these contacts to Havana. Subjects will
exfiltrate by small boat on or about 26 April and will be met
by the parent craft in open water to the north of Cayo Cruz
del Padre (Map sheet 4085 IV). ’
‘



De. OPERATIONAL ASSETS WITHIN CUBA

1. Cayo Cinco Léguas. ‘This key is used for production of
charcoal and salt, Residents are reported solidly anti-

Communist. A/14 has two contacts here that he used prevjously
for infils and exfils.. One is."Tango" i) &
Tango is a brother of sas w euide in this operat eet 307338 :
whom:A/14 wanted to usé as a guide in this operation, but who
was already being utilized elsewhere The other contact is

oF »

a.

the owner of the(Salina (salt drying beds)} (4/14 has not yet
been able to recall this individual's name.

2, Finca Casualidad, This area is directly south of. Cinc
Leguas.,on the mainland. Key contacts here are ,

(not related to Tango, above) and potn
Of Whom have. all farms in the area. Uy

3. Town of Marti. ‘Contact here ig"Perige", LNU. Subject is
about 50.years old, is employed by(INRA]*‘and has a jeep which
was used previously by 4/14 for operational purposes.

rl

Gia City. of Cardenas. _Contact is |‘owner of the
6 Gate Marino restaurant] Subject 1s-a-close-triend of A/14
who assisted him previdusly with transportation for maritime
receptions € would be used to take A/14 and A/27 to
Havana. Owns-a-car, :
5. “City of Matanzas, A-14 has a friend here named 06

rho also assigted A/14 in underground activities in
vol. subject is 80)? years old, married, and isa form:
o8(of public yorks) a the city, Subject has a son (Carlos) ow
in New York City Be jwill be contacted for transpor-
tation to Havana. Owns a car.

6. Varadero, "Fifo" bwns @ car and was formerly a
close friend of A/14, Subject was formerly active in the
underground@nd might be ged by A/14 in the event he could

not_use jou fbr obtaining transportation. al.&
& 1s _wge brotner-ot the communist
but is reported to be anti-communist himself.
7. Havana 6
_ os _—
a. Subject is single and lives

with her mother. (Is friend of AMICE/27 (possibly mis-
,, tress) and.can bMlised as safahouse keeper. Subject is _&
i) sister of a (Commandante inthe Navy
-¢'Who, according to A/27, was at one ‘time(chiet of naval
ob operations.) His present assignment or location is
unknown.

T)



ro al.

ul dob. Is aclose friend of A714
; and is uncle of(4/14's wite?*®can be used for operational
support, a car, “and safehousekeeping. Was formerly a Lt.

in Oriente under but no longer in army,
4/14 believes he 18 now an adminstrator ‘of some type of
industry in Havana,

- a
c. |) subject is aunt of A/14

and-cun ve usea as sarenouse keeper, She is single, lives
alone except for ten cats. Does not have a car. Was
formerly a teacher but now has a pension and does not work.

a. Subject is a relative of
4/27 and can be called on for ops support or safehousing.
Subject has a car, is married, no children, is in his
sixties. L
e., » To be recruited by “A/14 as his prin-
cipas agent in Havana. Subject and_A/l4 previously worked
together in .the underground.0| yas in the Sierra
with Castro and also fought iucawaguey. He resigned fron
the army in’February. 1959, although he has maintained many
contacts within the army, Was one time active in the ai
Moviniiento Democratico Martiano and was-a friend of {
who was shot by Castro in Pinar del Rio.
Subject came to PBPRIME in April 1961 with A/14 to obtain
arms and remained there 10 days, infiltrating back into
Cuba without his absence having been known to the authori-
ties.“ Was responsible for safehousekeeping i
for nearly one month when authorities were searching for
him, Will be used for intel collection and spotting on
defectable army officers, He is also known to A/27, but
§ not well, A/14 was last in touch with by letter
about two months ago. oe

Subject to be recruited by A/27
uld be used for operational in-
spotting among disaffected sme #ficers,
ntirely compartmented from, 6 Guin
ndante, now managing a large inna farm

of Havana. He is known to A/27 and A/14,
lieve he can be contacted safely. He is

anti-Communist| and is one of the group of Camilo Cienfuegoe
officers contabted by A/27 in early 1961 to join in an
i : overthrow of.the government.

1s Betas andi wn CuBELA Catal - 1m pelaee
SECRET

telligence an
Would be kept
is an army Cor
complex outsi
both of whom b



E.

cee ic)

&. Target personalities who are suspected of being dis-
1 affected and on whom 4/27 and A/14 will attempt to gather
information in Havana are as follows:

+ Comandante "Macho" Parra
2. Cdte. Oscar Guerra

3. " Jose Pinares

4. Capt. FNU Lawton

5. " Manuel Avila

6. Cmdte. Rene de los Santos
7. Ld Pedro Miret

8.. Capt. Juan Nuiry

9. Cmdte, Rafael Suarez More

10. Capt. ‘Fernando Fernandez Superville
11. Capt. FNU Guerra Matos

12, Capt. Sandy Olivares

13

W

Jose Fernandez Alvarez

becked through JMWAVE RI and
p_AMLEO/3.0, In a majority of cases

Tbe pete v0 be Some evidence to indicate the subjects
may be disaffected. In the case of Jose Pinares however,
it would appear that he is completely loyal to the regime.
his information was passed on to A/27 and A/14. RI silos
were negative. on Avila and Lawton,

COVER AND COMMUNICATIONS
RMU CATIONS.

AMICE/27 and AMICE/14 will live black during their entire stay
in Cuba, They will be equipped with alias documentation ang
pith disguises. Both of them have previously lived in the
Havana area. and know thé city well. They will be trained in
Secret Writing (SW) and will plan to train at least two ond
‘possible three agents in Havana in SW, prior to their ows
\exfiltration, In addition, it is planned to train A/27 end
~A(14 in OWL. At the time of infiltration, exfiltrecsen plans
will have been laid on with the agents. In the event thar a
change in time or location of exfiltration becomes necessary,
in jONVL message could be sent to the agents. Any urgedt and
immediate message which might have to be sent by the agents
during their short stay in Havana would be on a prearranged
aeemoceds System by commercial telegram. Such a system will
be Worked out to cover several possible contingencies, vue
ternal communications of whatever net is organized by A/27

and A/14 will be arranged by courier, cut-out, live snd dead
drops, © :

hoe OPERATIONAL AND SECURITY EVALUATION
7

1. J LCFLUITER examinations n_both AMICE/27 and AMICE/14
Ou; s the Opinion of bo
ycase o: cers and the training personnel who have been in

close contact with these individuals that both agents are



highly motivated and strongly anti-communist, this point will
remain’ basically unresolved since it is almost certain that

A/27 would refuse a second LCFLUTTER examination if asked
It is,

"
The nature, seriousness,
Possible consequences o S are as yet not clear.

Although he says that he Give any detatls
of the operation, he does admit to having discussed it in
very general terms with two individuals whom he named at

the’ time of the LCFLUTTER test. One of these if. Bei oDS,
eZ,

einSubermepdilgnoze and one pi tzsend of Vargas Concz
TRE Same Yeu. ars a eats oD ager.

3,° AMICE/27 has not seen his contacts in the army for the
past two years, Although it is difficult-to assess how well
he knows various persons in the military about whom he speaks,
it is the case officer's opinion that few of these contacts
might be considered really close. .AMICE/14 has been out of
direct touch with his operational contacts since July 1961,

4, The infiltration into Cayo Cinco Leguas is dependent
upon having a good guide in the boat. At this time, Phase
II is awaiting the recruitment of AMTRUNK/4 as guide.

5. Control over AMICE/27 and AMICE/14 is basically lacking.
Some control can be exerted through the implied threat of
withholding support to the operation. Control however will
remain tenuous at best and A/27.will continue to be a dif-
ficult handling problem,

6. .On the positive side of the ledger is the calibre of the
agents, both of whom. are well educated, astute, and highly
motivated,
~ifonguerer ticularly 4/14 who has made a number of p:
clandestine entries and exits and has many operational con-
tacts. To date both have performed in a superior manner in
training,

FUTURE PLANS

Duringthe week of 1 through 6 April, the team will receive
maritime instruction, During the week 8 through 13 April,
they will receive SW training, possibly OWVL training, dis-
guise training, dnd further operational planning sessions.

COMMLTMENTS

tthe following principle, which tte
from ODYOKE, was enunciated during his

RE will recognize a new Cuban



democratic principles; ‘ODYOKE does not-desire to impose a
government of its own choice upon Cuba". A/27 has made a
“\ big point of discussing this "commitment", It is apparent
\V" that he intensely dislikes (or fears?) Batista and his

5 \ ty {followers. It is also apparent that in his mind he links

’ ‘Batista and KUBARK, and fears that KUBARK would back Batis-
tianos in a post-Castro government.

ra government which is anti-Communist and which operates on ~

3. Another commitment which AMICE/27 claim& to have discussed
in ZRMETAL is that ODYOKE should give "official recognition"

' ¢o members of a conspiracy which culminates in a successful

i coup d'etat, following the coup, in order that. these individual:
i will not be treated as political criminals by a future regime,
{This means recognition of an individual's participation in

;-the conspiracy, not a promise of recognition of a specific
government formed by the conspirators themselves.

4, Discussion of the above "commitments" has been pressed
several times by 4/27, PEGGINS has not agreed to any of these
commitments with A/27, However, A/27 feels that the com-
{ mitments have already been made by ODYOKE in ZRMETAL. PEGGINS
has told A/27 that he will report these "commitments" back
to ODYOKE to determine if, in fact, ODYOKE considers them as
‘ commitments.
‘ H
/ 5, The, enly..commiment made by JMUAvE through PEGGINS has
r | been that if any of the AMTRUNK group were killed or captured
po | Wile on the migsion .fheittoniides,in-PERRTME gould be
| assisted for a "reasonable amount of time” financia
FREGGINS declined to state what that TRS TOuLE EE SESW much
| financial assistance would be involved.
i
\ ‘6. One further negative commitment has been discussed between

| PEGGINS and A/27. PEGGINS has stated to A/27 that no com-

mitment will be made at this time to support any internal

\y \ ‘group organized by the AMTRUNKS with weapons or explosives

r) (cand that this extends specifically to no promise to support
vie actiye sabotage with demolitions. iy

