“'404-10161-10091 [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 }

LteG 2776

ae

;

S ?

fh Oo,
4 t é 7 a
aa
av
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THE

HMMM SECRET | ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITE.
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED wy AT td anne
Aemen ONT 1] RE. FILE. vR phn s De) frau.) eofer
LEB I os shea Lyeh Woes
byt, _opn Yon Ens
T 651930 EI A932 PAGE O4 wlic eon JN paesez

{cara ] 32 414

py

TOR: 0419302 MAR 77 CiYyslecey

SEC RE T 0415552 MAR 77 STAFF
16-17

cite fcaracas] 32414

TO: DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYBAT

REF: [earacas] sesea CIN 203537)

1, ON 3 MARCH CHARGE (DCM) TALKED "INFORMALLY" TO FOREIGN

MINISTER ESCOVAR SALOM» INFORMATION MINISTER DIEGO ARRIA» AND
PRESIDENTIAL CONFIDANT AND UNOFFICIAL PRESS ADVISOR EUGENIO SOLER
TO ALL THREE CHARGE MADE SAME TWO BASIC POINTS WITH THOUGHT THESE
WOULD BE RELAYED TO PRESIDENT PEREZ: (1) VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT
HAD MISREAD NEW YORK TIMES SToRYs HAD ATTRIBUTED TO DAVID PHILITBS.
STATEMENTS APPARENTLY MADE BY OTHERS; HAD OVER-REACTED TO
PART To BE HELPFUL;

WHAT SEEMED TO BE AN EFFORT ON PHILLIPS! AND

(2) THE USG WAS STANDING PAT ON THE PRESIDENT'S LETTER, NO ONE ELSE

WAS SPEAKING» COULD OR WOULD SPEAK FURTHER FOR THE USG ON THIS SUBVECT.

AS FAR AS THE U.S, WAS CONCERNED, ISSUE WAS CLOSED AND WE HOPED
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use On

DURING 3 AND EARLY 4 MARCH IT APPEARS THAT THE CHARGE 'SDo Not Reproduce

GOV WOULD SEE IT THE SAME WAY.
2.

EFFORTS -AND TRADITIONALLY SHORT LATIN AMERICAN ATTENTION SPAN

HAVE COMBINED TG GREATLY EASE CRISIS SITUATION OF LAST WEEK, AT

SeeCHREeem

Yoy


CABLE SEC OISSEM BY. PER. 7 TOTAL copies BURT oY:

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

PeRsoNsUnir NomiFieD SECRET ieune are en ie eomete
ADVANCE COPY “ISSUED/SLOTTED By AT z ISTAFF
ACTION UNIT 1 4
1 RF. FILE . VR. 7 —
N 5
aero F 3 a,
fe} nt
T 651930 ELA932 PAGE 82 IN 206462
ae
TOR! 9419302 MAR 77 [carat 32414

LEAST AS FAR AS GOV IS CONCERNED. CAP AND GOVERNMENT SPOKESMEN
HAVE ALL STATED THAT INCIDENT HAS ENDED AND ARE NOW TRYING To
DIVERT ATTENTION To OTHER SUBJECTS. MEDIA COVERAGE IS RETURNING
TO NORMAL WITH STORTES OUT OF HEADLINES AND BACK ON PAGE SIX OR
EIGHT, SUPERSEDED BY NIEHOUS CaSE, UGANDAN SITUATION, OPEC PRICE
HIKE, ETC, UNFORTUNATELY, EVERY. VENEZUELAN WEEKLY MAGAZINE HAS
LONG ARTICLE €S) ON CIA WHICH ARE, OF COURSE, DEFAMATORY, AND
TEND TO WHIP UP PUBLIC ANTIPATHY TOWARDS AGENCY, THEN TOO» THERE
IS STILL MATTER OF DEMONSTRATION AGAINST CIA WHICH TWO DAYS AGO
CAP SEEMED TO BE INSTIGATING IN TWO MEETINGS WITH JOSE VICENTE
RANG EL AND PomPEYO MARQUEZ OF MAS AND JESUS
FARIA OF THE PCV. NEVERTHELESS, ON THE WHOLE, THEINTEREST
IN THES ISSUE SEEMS TO BE DROPPING OFF AND’DYING OUT RATHER

RAPIDLY.
24

J

SECRET

2p


raed 876

caBie sec DISSE By. C1 paseisssesaiiads

TOTAL _GOPIES

RUN BY
PERSON/UN:T NOTIFIED.

tee mG Rei

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
(SsUine Semce s PRomBiTeo
; po
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED By At. 2 STAFF
ACTION UNIT 1 zi
' RF. FILE . vR.
N 2 5
‘ACTION @ F a i
°
T o51932 © «E1932 PAGE B3 IN 206462
uel
TOR! 9419302 MAR 77 [tara] 3244
[

ALTHOUGH AMBASSADOR, STILL
SOMETHING OF A POLLYANNA AT suct TIMES, SERIOUSLY UNDERESTIMATED
CAP'S INTENTION 7) AN ACTION WHICH CAME WITHIN
ONE HOUR OF OCCURING. ANYWAY,

2s
TH@ROUGOUT ALL OF THIS
“|HAVE CONTINUED THEIR CONTACTS AND HAVE TRIED TO BE AS

zy
FRIENDLY AND UNDERSTANDING, PERHAPS EVEN COVERTLY HELPFUL, AS

<
SITUATION WOULD ALLOW, — TTITUDE IS
: i - A |

CONVERSATION WITH CRYMM DURING PEAK OF CRISIS

TYPICAL OF

e

HERE IS NOT DIFFERENT,

SKED CRYMM,

: z
HAVING DISCUSSED A VARIETY OF TOPICS oF (Gonmant ops ]inreREs T,

"WELL OTHERWISE, HOW ARE THINGS GOING?"

CRYMM REPLIED » " YOU WHOULD KNOW THE ANSWER TO THAT", TO WHICH

SAiD, SOMEWHAT GLUMLY» " YET, I SUPPOSE SO”.
4. WE SHOULD NOT FOOL OURSELVES IN THINKING THAT THE WORLD

HOWEVER, WKSCARLET=9 COVERTLY REPORTED

'Vp)

SECRET

=


Tg. ane

capue ‘SEC OISSEM BY. “pen eee FOTAL COPIES | RUN BY
oe ft REPROOUCTION BY OTHER THA
Ras ean a SECRET ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROWIBITEL
ADVANCE COPY 1SSUED/SLOTTED ey AT z STAFF
ACTION UNIT : : ;
t FF. FILE VR.
nT 2 5
ACTION # la 3 6
°°
T 651936 ELA932 PAGE 84-04 IN 206462
2i!7,
TOR: 6419302 MAR 77 cara | 32414
Das H ~

SO, AS CAN BE SEEN BY ALL OF THIS,
THE RELATIVELY EASY OPERATING CONDITIONS oF THE RECENT PAST NO

LONGER PERTAIN= PERHAPS THEY NEVER WILL AGAIN© AND WHILE WE ARE
NOT BECOMING PARANOID NOR WILL WE BE UNDULY ‘SPOOKED, WE HAVE
ADJUSTED TO THE NEW AMBIENTE AnD ARE NOW BEING MUCH MORE

CONSERVATIVE AND CAUTIOUS IN GUR ACTIVITIES THAN BEFORE,
5. NO FILE. E2, IMpPDET,

SECR

m

)
)4
