# 104-10192-10232

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10192-10232

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MIRE

TO

Director

Tederal Bureau of Invest da tios

Attention: ur. 8. J. Poplca

& RO!

: Deputy Diroctor for plans

SUBJECT " Non Cuban IxIle OrganIzatIOn XDOVD de

Podar Cubano. ('Cuban Poser")

1.

A seaber 01 A grOup Os Cuban enderos tralnod 1n

the tochniques of Information collection which has pro

vided useful reporta aince 1961 has providod us with the

following Information.

Thia information was obtalnod

durIng a ConversatIon with Orlando BOSCH AvIla, Genoral

Coordinator of the Movimiento Insureccional de Recupar

AcIon RovOlucIOnArla (InBUrrOCtIOnal MOVement 1OF

RovolutIonary ReCOvery-HIRK):

Д.

According to source, BOSCH sald the MiRa

dolejation :1n Now York was in

contact with a now

Cuban exile organization knusn as Podei Cubano

("'Cuban Power') which las the objoctivo of haltino

the sending of parcols to Cuba.

It. 1s allagedly

IOSPODBIble

for tho explosion of parcola in New

York on 9 December 1967 and in Blizaboth, Now Jeraoy,

on 4. December 1967.

Sourco reported that BOSCH Bald

that the reveral Burenu of Investijation searchad

twO

sE fOTOUSOS

Of the MIRR On 14 DeCeuber 1907 l00k1ng

for explosives but sound nothiny bocause they lad

bean noveu.

b.

Tron thia convorsation, source learnod that

tho top loauera of the MIRR

are runnid;

"Cuban posor"

ubich la responsible for sonding tho parcol that

•exploded In a llavara, Cuba,

Post 01f1co on 8 January

1968.

Parcela poro reportedly also sont to "trastore

anony the exiles", and 1t vas clalnod that withis

seven to eight days "they".

rould stago a job vith.

explosives of auch grand proportions that 1t nould

sound all over the world.

(It i8 not knoan whether

this jor sould be comitted by "Cuban Power"

, the

HIRR, or both).

19-300-10

---

## Page 2

14-00000

2.

A search os tho salon of sals Office revonled

по perilnont 10001181ab1e 1010508810D TOyardlD, "Cuban

Porior."

CBC1-316/00103-68.

25 January. 1968

03

DDP/wH/COG/CICS/L. Carberry, jas

Distribution:

Or 18 & 1

Addressee

1

- RID

- CI/LIA

- CI/RBA

1

1

- WH/COG/CICS

- Or1g1naor

SOURCE: AMOTEX-9 (formorly

AXTAUP-2)

FILE: 19-300-20

BASED ON:

WAVE. 0974

(IN 35261), 23 JAn

68

---

