“'104-10119-10367| [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

1 i : 20 February 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT: VAN HET REVE, Kerel ~ 839052

| REFS; Attached Clippings from the HEW YORK TIMES &t4 11 Jan 1970 and
NEWSWEEK ata 12 Jan 1970

1. References reported that Subject, founder of the Alexander Herzen
Foundation in Amsterdam, is publishing the writings of Soviet dissenters;
notably Andrei AMALRIK, Andrei GAKHAROV, Pavel LITVINOV and Anatoly fT. MARCHENKO.

: 2. T cam

Sarah K. Hell
628/08

64



¥ 11 Jamary 1970

+ to Caited States peblishers, Paper” enrrespondent. in Mos.

CO

NEW YORK. TIES °

New Dutch Group Is Publishing |
Writings of Soviet Dissenters’

Ty HENRY RA
A ariup af West Europea
FehGlara Rava set.un a no:
BaNization, 4
Hezea__Foundation..
bh 79 dissemina: fs
“by dissident Soviet! ishing abroad az
{ OA ewercising their ri
- tect the! What differentiates the Her-!
is to protect the! +. Foundation fram samp of;
"al exelent PAC! the Smigré presses that pubtion:
Steal exploitation. careless’ Manuscripts smuggled out off
Haptlations and other compli-! the “Soviet Ument he main.
fusions that have often marked} tained, ix that it has the. ap-!
quien in the West of; fovel’ of the authors to act)
maauseripts smugeled out Off as their agent abroad. |

they insist

the Saviet Uning. i 5, A
With the increasing interest: Estublished in 1968

in “Soviet dissent scores of | The foundation was estah-}

Western listers in recent, lished in 1968 hy Dr. Karel cay’
“flonthe have tumned to the) bet Prie heeame ¢

foundation for bank ‘rims’ tol ditenatce atthe Univer diy at
such works as Andzel" Amate| Levélen. with suppart frety “o-

Sur-j group of Duich businessmen, !
vevilie: he was Moscow core]
's Testimony,”! respordent for a Dutch new:
by Pavel Litvinov,|. paper in 1967 and 1968, Dr,
Branston af “Maxim Litvinov,; het Reve became friendly with,
Foreign Minister under] several writers who asked to!
be" helped in getting their|
‘nh the translations re-i books published in the West. {
ceived wide Potice in the West-' anifter ia sumed thera
gin Press. Nttie was known dam in 1968, Dr. van het Rew
Shout tae fnandation until one’ Was joined by Dr. Jan Besemer.|
of its representatives came here another Russian Hterature pro-|
ek to expinin its role fessor, who was also a nde |

We received our inspiration COW, and Prier Reddaw
sighconed ffnrae ot letra sa oe Bead
er Herzen to defy to-[.0f Econom
tan methods against Rus-; Stitute’s _p:
F 2 by publistring them) Max_Haviw;
in the West and sending their! Russian a
bonks hack through a literary... The’ foundation's procedure]
underzround, the’ r9j esentan, IS orignal Rs ern in
tive, who asked aE Te he aes tit origina 7 —
“Hiea said in an iniercicw. "Thy inwarng ‘copyrigne tee
aks {olfeting it to publishers
Herzen Had a Journal { Western Europe and the Unit.
Herzen, an aristocratic titera-| ed States.
feur and father of Russian! Since it placed its first bool
Socialism, in 1857 started a‘in the West, Mr. Lit inov's|
Periodical, Koiokol (The Bell),!“Dear Comrade” (published
3n London to pubticize hi ideasi here by Pitman), the organizas
and those of ot! issidents, Ns
banned by Tsarist autecracy.
The journal established a long
tradition of Russian prblishing par
in exile that aver the years hag ter"
included such authors'as Lenin,
Gorkv, Trotsky and Pastern:



ered” that trial
the rest of Moscow's foreign Press corps

pea ‘oc ee

underground Press ig

peas Mi
forthe Dutch da
rept foreetting to
ws. But then, v
wchoker of Russ

Uhbe ol apposi
“Anengh a fe
sandr Horn

1

ion

omnd

het Rew
apocalyptic pamphlet
Survive Until 1984
: ‘h
eof the British

ari Galanskoy,

hovka Stre

Tan het Reve. as it
i

eokd on the
ie charges x
vin the prod:
all. eedly ats
coeernins the 1966

Yok Paed and Andrei Sim
alin:

stoentiusion with

writer who printed, ment openly
"1 manuscripts abroad. van vict me ‘because not one person charged
has begun reles

made headlines with the bitter,

hip: a 400-paye dowsic
oor trial of four Russian disci-

at took place in Mosenw’s.

tionary Russian
Frankfurt, Germany. Fric
ndards, Karel | cused smmggled ont thy
: of each day's prover Fags, and when

trial ended, van het Reve, through

friendship with one -af ‘the self.
1 Appointed court reearders, came into
n het Reve essession Of the 120 different: manu.
an literatnre who feripts which make up the hook that
: Longmans Green will publish in Britein

gré_ group jin
of the ac-
ail acconnts
haf a news.

Fr spend

Se

sued on with the nev aper =
of spending a year-or so inthe — “Tater this year, ae
Enion. And now, back is Teo Time: Though much of the material is -
ale ¥ ty. technical, caurageons voices like that of

azburg bring the combative atnase
story of pre of the tril fa life, ‘T thought and
on movement in fi me to think new,” he declared to
“dation nained the judge. “that if Fo dew* auree with
. the nineteenth: ething F should express my disagree:
Tkoow that you will con-

i scanp. ¢

ing a flood af Under Article 70 [anti-Soviet activity] hes
documents and ‘ever bees acquitted. 1 will or off we the
inthe West. camp calmly to serve my time.”

Van het Reve naturally isn’t eager to
reveal how he smngiled out this mass of
doctnentation. “Let's just say J man-
aged,” he smiles. Probably through the
tiac-honored methods «f the phin brown
envelope and the Ingcuige of departing
foreigners. he and the Herzen Fou
tion, which ironically occlipies The fonner
quarters of the Dutch Commin
Party in Amsterdam, have “managed” to
m net only the Amatik pamphlet

hie Gin.burg trial records, bat a
« flow of ather anti-regime works
fa sharp attack an Sovict polities
by Andrei Sakharov, the noted nnelear
phisicist, anda factual account of life
in the U.S.S.R/s labor camps by Anatoly
Marchenko, who is stil! ving fime for
“agitation.”

A lapsed Stalinist: timed democrat,
xan het Reve insists that the Herzen_
Foundation is apolitical. “Our only aim is

+ ty give these people a chance te publish
and that’s all.” he says. And if he can
keep his foundation clear of damaging ~
support and free of any profit :

ind translator, van,

Will the US.S.R.
youthful historian
appeared in the
a

#® gave News.
an exclusive
mph over Soviet

et courthouse in

it happens, “oox-
f, shivering with -

street outside the
re. i

oy
tri

