# 104-10185-10099

## Page 1

104-10185-10099

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

SO FORT TIS

COUNTRY

SUBJEGT

Cuba

Suis Jesus PSREZ Martinez

HOT NO

DATE DiSTR

Ma ProSS

SEANCES

CS Cr:316/00716-64

9 Septoraber 1964

DATE OF

INFO:

PLACE &

DAIS SCA

SOURCE

2

STATE

I'DiA

(Notos field distrisusion Marant b, "=")

332 CACLANT

1954

washington, D. C.

D REPORT. NO

sOUL

Of con

A former Cuban IS oticer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Sirnice until April 1964,

Quarters Comments.

e folowing report is one afa series containing personalty

formation provided by the source anana ludes Supplemental

cormation from the records of tis geacy,

= is requested that the addressees tase no action on any of the

indiriduals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

Luis Jesus PEREZ Martinez is the First. Secretary of the

Cigar Embassy in Bolivia and a staff odicer of the Direscios

Cuteral de Inteligercia (General Directorate of Intelligence -

R31), 1, 2, 3, д, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11

Eesdguarters. Comments

1. In a report dated 8. April 1961, an untested source reporifd

that he had talied with one Captain Luis PEREZ, a G-2 officer, who,

in a conversation after a few drinis, volunteered informatior c.

Cudar troop movements. PERSZ is a staurch CASTRO follower.

2. An untested source, in a report dated 27 April 1962, gave

& run-down on the Cuban G-i.

In so doing he idertified ore

Captain Luis PEREZ as the executive cincer and plans efacer

SECRET

NO FORN PESS:

AIR

\ SA

I OER

CAICSO=: IRS

1L41195 33

TRIDT.AN

TOTALS

SITEST MAINES 10ONS

1 6 hAs 1955

IX-1555

NO PROJECT ANNUG-

'COORDINATING

CSCH-14/9925"

I LO

C1/R,:A

201•325599

---

## Page 2

3:.

7..

8.

- 2.

of the C-" Represton,

"the new name for tlio. Dopartamento de

investigactones del Ejercito Rebelco (Ster)

On 15 July 1952,

an unteste sourco stated that Captain Luis PEReZ,

who fought

with CASTRo In the hountains, fes a high post in an

2885

So as DudeS, Depo tea too Subacuse 1962, that

co. 28 Judo 2060,

Crosach sule 2aae2 was the Denuty Chief at g-2 Hesdquarters.

descalmed 28n24 as taving doch born thout 1932, boing about five

feet

dithe lachos

tall.,

1oo pounds, having a rediun bulla,

a ruddy

compassion.

nad thick

curly bLond tail.

Ho was i law studont, camé

Is married.,

and has two childron.

He

IS vesy 20-2033,

was caucatud at the beion School, and was formerly

the Cubin Lal tary attacho in Venezuola.

ray: 50212320 source roported that Luis penaz Martinez, a Cuban

Chile,

enroute to la baz,

50l1viat on

Parat, who carried Cuo. gassport D/62-496,

,was

3930

Àccord!

ng to a travol man1lost one Luis. Josus Perez jartinez,

Secretarto Rescrito so tho Cuban Embassy In La Pas, Bolivia, left,

Santiago, Chlie, for

Z2 Pad on 6 Deceaber 1962.

¿ source thica

has proved to be. fairly rollablo gave the following

incornation on

Zü1s PEREZ:

react was the

Cuban "litary Attache 17 Halti and Iator

(1901) 1n Nonozucla; ho left both countries when they broke

clic ntic scrations with Cuba.

In Docember 1551, PEREZ

traveiod to lashington, D. C.,

with JOse MOLEO% Carroras, the

Cuban colcarto 10

Intor-inerican Defense Stafi of the OAS.

Hio vas a captain in tho Cuban rebel arny.

Source was not certain

'Ho was born about 1928,

is about livo leet nino inches tals, 160 pounds, has dark hair,

lighü eyes, ard is white.

ine foliowing tavol infornation on Luis Jcsus PEREZ Martinez,

Secrétario riscrito 01

tho Cuban Embassy in La Paz, Bolivia, was

taken Ion official travel manifests:

SECRET

NO FOREICN DISSEM

---

## Page 3

Cosober 1932

October 1952

-Lôit do Pid dor Suntzago

Arrived trica from Santiago

Janaady: 1903

rived drich fyon La Paz.

January 1953

- Loit arica for La Paz

Perez carried Cuban passport 62/496:

9.

In a report dacod 25 banuary 1933, a fairly re lasle source reporsed

with luis vesus

at Manora pot courter can getween so,

Chile, and la Paz, Bolivia.

10. 1 former cuban Intelligence officer who has been living in the

waited States since 1963 and whose reporting

for the past nine

months has proved reliable, gave the foilowry information on

Luis Parag:

pansz, whose nickname is "El polaco," was born in Cube abour

1930

Ko is aout five feet ton inchesatall and about 27o

pounds. panoz father is' one of the owners of tha "Case Perez"

in Habana.. During 1958, peRse was in the Sterra

Jaestra. Prior

to 190ì he was a Cuban Military Attache In a Latin American

country?

In 190l he was appointed Chief of the Occupation

¡Sectio::

of Cüban Intelligence: (G72) in Habana Province

He

hold the rank of captain in the DSE.

27 :

In a report dated 29 June 1964,

a Cuban exile with excellent-conracts

in the Antillean Harine Shipping Corporation said that Lieutenant

LuiS JeSUS PEREZ lastinez, the orner Cuban Military Attache to

Venezuela and a nember of the Cuban delogation to the OAS in

of the DSE.

His parents roside at Calle San

floo%, Habana, Cuba.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

