“\o4-40174-40220 L
cAEE jee Eases UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

9 June 1760
MEXCRAMIUM FOE Acting Director of Central Intelligence
wm 3 Depaty Director (Plans)
SUBSECT $ Conversation betveen President Logcs Mateos of Mexico

eré kr. Winston Scott, Chief of Ftation, Hexico

FUFERINCE 2 WELT 5693 (DI-A9515), dated 8 June i)

1. ‘This wevorandom contains « suggestion, In Paragraph 3, for the
consideration of the CI. ;

2. On the night of 7 Ame, President Lopes Kateos requested bre Ecott
to infora “his 5005 friend, President Eleenhover," of the followinst

A, That the President 16 a friend of the United States, “not cooly
deeause of neceseity but of genuine desire and ideology".

B. ‘That the invitation to Presidert Dorticos of Cubs we extended
tvo veeke efter it vas indicated that vorticos wes going to Kaxico
“on bis ov", through the Fexican Aubessador in Cuba.

a That be will not invite Fidel Castro to Hexico even though Cuban
Anbassador Jose Antonio Portuondo told President Lopes Rateos that
Dovticos will request an invitation for Castro.

3. PresidantLopez ‘Hateos also asked that President Eisenbover be
fia delighted that « decision hss now been wade to get rid

informed that be
wet Castro.) The DCI aay-vish to infora the President of tbe adore.

b, President Lopes Mateos vas indirectly inforued of CIA intentions
Castro taroush a conversation between br. Scott and

who informed Hr. Reott that Pres

1ait.vextco, even tharh Dorticos 19

Lopes Mateos vou
going 46 ask hia to 60 €0. . Feott sugzected tlat if the Mericen President

helped. 3IA-to echiere the overthrov of Castro, he would not bare to geal vith
7 the problea of inviting Castro to Mexico. can
7 Ce

J.C, King
chief
Vestern Henisphere Division

eer WOT

apd

