[ATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

“'404-10124-10040) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSA:
ae, sly, ar ae

o/.

1 November 1958

SUBJECT: American C-118 Aircraft Downed in Soviet
Azerbaijan 27 June 1958 by Soviet MIG-17's

On 27 June 1958, a C~118 cargo plane, assigned to the U. S, Air
Force in Wiesbaden, was fired on and forced down near Gendarkh, Soviet
Azerbaijan. The plane was carrying nine U. S. airmen, (three of whom 24
are assigned to this Agency} They | 03,03, 03
| (The other six men were 24
regular Air Force members)assigned to Wiesbaden, Germany, The nine men
were en route from Wiesbaden to Teheran and Pakistan on a flight carry-
ing cargo for CIA. were planning to get off 24
the plene in Teheran had the plane remained on course.) é

The plane, while en route to Teheran from Nicosia and as a result
of bad weather and navigation error, went off its plotted course and
crossed into Soviet Armenia, There it was intercepted and fired on by
three MIG-17's and caught fire in the left wing. Five of the crew bailed
out and the other four rode the aircraft down to a safe landing on a
small airstrip at Genfiarkh in Soviet Azerbaijan. The crew members who
had remained on the plane to its landing got out safely and the plane
was burning fiercely when the crew last saw it. The part of the crew
that parachuted was surrounded by Soviet peasants, some of whom beat and
struck at the crew members. One of the men, CIA 03
employee) was taken by the mob to a telephone pole and narrowly escaped
hanging before being rescued by the Soviet military.

oe

na and the remainder of the crew were turned over to the
Soviet military, and after an overnight stay in a Soviet military
garrison near Stepanakert were taken to a city believed to be Yevlakh,
and then flown to Baku, Russia, There they underwent interrogation by
Soviet intelligence officers, at least one of whom had served in the
United States, as a Soviet Purchasing Comission employee 19345, and
later in Canada in 199-55 as First Secretary of the Soviet Embassy.
This RIS officer, Vladimir Bourdine, later served in 1955 as a personal
interpreter for Khrushchev in a meeti ith Prime Minister Nehru of
India. urdine interrogated of CIA At considerable

d d 30 June ~ 3 Ivly 1958, hile the crew was im-
quarters buil i ku. Following their
¥ gations, the crew vere required to appear
separately before a Commission of Soviet officials at“the Baku MVD
er violation by the
ts attesting that



al

oF

Soviets. The inquiry by the Commission was perfunctory and did not

‘then transported to Astara on the Soviet-Iranian border on 7 duly

SECRET wd)

involve an interrogation in the intelligence sense, The crew was
1958 and turned over to the American Air Attache.

On 2 July 1958 this Agency received information indicating that
the Soviets might be considering releasing the nine fliers. Since no
date or place of release was indicated » cables were sent to the various
peripheral CIA stations around the Soviet border indicating the possi-
bility of impending release. The Air Force agreed to alert its Air
Attaches in the same areas of the possibility of impending release. At
the same time a team of Agency personnel, including a medical officer,
an Air’ Maritime officer, and two representatives of the Security Office
were dispatched to Wiesbaden from Headquarters in anticipation of the
release of the fliers. Three hours after the team arrived in Germany’,
the place of release was learned from the Soviets to be Astara on the
Soviet-Iranian border, and a USAFE plane was dispatched that night from
Wiesbaden with the Air Maritime team member aboard destined for
Teheran to await the turnover of the American fliers at Astara, The
fliers were turned over on 7 July 1958, were immediately flown to
Wiesbaden, Germany where an initial joint CIA-AF debriefing of them
was begun, and where initial press interviews were held, following
careful briefing of the crew as to the text and limitations to be
observed, Two days later, two members of the crew, one of whom was

a CIA employee, were permitted to give an interview to the
Paris representative of Time< e. Members of the CIA team were pre-
sent during these press interviews » under appropriate cover arrengements ’
to furnish guidance(to the CIA ay Nay
2

Following the initial debriefing, the entire crew was flown to
Washington, D, C, on 18 July 1958, for a more extended debriefing.
These debriefings were completed on 6 Auguct 1958 and covered the
various asvects of possible compromise >f the security of CIA
personnel, operational and cover units activities, as well as various
positive intelligence and counter-intelligence matters,

zy
(the three CIA)men aboard the plane were extremely knowledgeable
of highly sensitive Agency operational activities and of the identities
of numerous CIA personnel, c 09,24

J was knowledgeable of CIA operatio.

activities on a world-wide basis, with many of these vroi being
extremely sensitive? ea
carried briefcases containing Classified material » and, carried

an address book containing several names, addresses and telephone
numbers of CIA personnel and cover units, The two briefcases are
believed to have been destroyed by the fire in the aircraft after f
landing. The address book of was taken from him by the Soviet

~ 3



ln)

SECRET

peasants on landing and was later turned back to him by the Soviet
Commission members at Baku, Neither he nor other members of the crew
were questioned about either of the briefcases, their contents, nor
about the address book and its contents, We assume that the Soviets
have or will process the names in the address book through their Moscow
files. Some of the other crew members carried personal notations in
their wallets relating to a few other CIA personnel,

We have received no indications that| or the other oF
crewmen were drugged or otherwise tampered with by the Soviets. }
and some of the others did receive shots the first night and second day

from the Soviet military for their wounds and burns; however, these
shots are believed to have been for legitimate medical reasons.

The substance of the questioning, treatment and techniques of
interrogation has been exhaustively explored with all the crew members
in the course of the debriefings, In summation, the interrogations
of the crew members were superficial and do not appear to have been
backed up by close coordination and commnication with Moscow for
intelligence research purposes. It is possible that the quick ac-
knowledgment by the Soviet Foreign Office of the landing of the C-118
in Soviet, territo: re: fully exploiting the crew
member 8 were separated from the
group and given preferred treatment, apparently with the intention of
developing them for information purposes. We are convinced that both
men handled themselves extremely well and did not disclose any infor-
mation concerning the Agency or its activities,

To date we have ne indication that the Soviets knew at the time
they interrogated the crew men, that the flight of the C-118 was con-
nected with CIA in any way, nor that they knew €hree of the men aboard 24
were CIA personnel. We do believe that in time the Soviets, through
O03 ( jaddress book, which lists the open Agency telephone number
3-6115 below his name on the first page, will connect him and
possibly others in the address book with CIA. Since the Soviets
questioned him about the 7170th Support Group and the 705th Support
Squadron in Wiesbaden, it is therefore presumed that they will asso-
ciate those units with this Agency.

In addition to this report, debriefings of the crewen
were taped and typed, which will total some 7,000 - 9,000 pages
when completed, are being distributed to the CI Staff and

pee iy

SECRET



oo Paeseteseeter? «

SECRET

other interested components of this Agency as they are completed.
Questions were solicited by this Office of all interested components,
in order to cover all matters in the debriefings of interest to the
Agency. Careful arrangements have been made with the Air Force in
order that Agency interests will be adequately protected and proper
security will be maintained in the handling of information and reports
derived from the debriefings, and so that no compromise of the Agency
interest in the flight of the C-118 will be made to the press.

CONCLUSIONS:
A. It is our opinion that the possible compromises arising out of

this incident are relatively minor in nature and that no majér
compromises occurred.

B, That the Soviets "missed" on the true nature of the flight and
personnel of the C-118.

C, That the reasons the crew members were given an early release
were as follows:

1. Primarily, the Soviet interrogators failed to use all
of the leads at their command, particularly oF
address book, and failed to break the crewmen through
interrogation.

2. The crew did not inadvertently disclose through in-
terrogations, the purpose of their flight, its relation
to the Agency and that of (three of its crew to CIA.

2

3. The Soviets apparentl; raited to check out the names
and other data in/ jaddress book through their
files prior to reléase of the crew,

4. No incriminating information or material was immediately
recovered from the burned aircraft.

5. Several of the crew destroyed incriminating building
passes and notations in their wallets while on their
way down in their parachutes, or immediately after
landing in their chutes,

6. There were either no leaks or insufficient leaks of
incriminating information through any room conversa-
tions at Baku among the crew, which may have been moni-
tored by the Soviets, or such conversations as there
may have been vere not properly interpreted, or inter-

ed soon enough to tip the Soviets that there was

31a


SECRET

. 7. The crew members were all in uniform and not in mixed
o civilian and Air Force clothing, which properly estab-
lished their cover.

8. Sufficient pressures were exercised by Agency, State,
Air Force, and Executive action upon the Soviets to
effect the release of the crew as soon as possible.

9. A factor that probably had an important bearing was the
early acknowledgment by the Soviet Foreign Office of
the downing of the aircraft and the attempts by the
Soviets in the early stages to make this appear as a
deliterate violation of the Soviet air frontier. This
tended to take the "play" away from the MVD and military;
intelligence. In addition, this Government was stepping
up the tressure for the release of the nine Army person-
nel who landed in East Germany in a helicopter, and the
Soviets probably had no desire to create a duplicate of
this incident.

10. Safeguards taken by the Agency and the Air. Force were
such that there was no leak to the press, during the
crew's internment, of the fact that there was an in-
telligence connection of the flight. and crew of the
Ca118.

D. That it is not believed, based on the evidence at hand, that
the crew was drugged or otherwise tampered with medically.

E. That there are valuable points of guidance from a cover, opera~
tions, policy and code of conduct standpoint which can be
gathered irom experiences of these crewmen in the hands of the
Soviets and can aid the Agency and its personnel in any future
situation of a similar nature in which the Soviet military and
RIS interrogators are encountered.

ACTION TAKEN TO SAFEGUARD AGENCY INTEREST IN THIS MATTER:

As All possible steps were taken during the period immediately
preceding and immediately after the release of the crew to
effect the minimum of publicity and to safeguard and limit
such publicity as was given out, in order to avoid disclos-
ing the CIA connection of the flight and some of its crew.

B. Throughout the entire debriefing process in Germany and in
the U. S., the maximum care has been taken to safeguard
the information taken by transcript and classify it so that
‘e vould be access to the information therein on a need-



Gite

ter patdeteetieerity SECRET

pee seeeet : 3-3
C. Steps were taken immediately by the (German Station/after
the downing of the C~118 to change the combinations of
the safes and locks in the buildings to which the crew
had access.

D. The three men from this Agency who were aboard the flight, _
03.03.03 and the aircraft commander, ot
are be: moved from tHe German area, being returned to ~

the U. S. (The three CIA crewmen! by

E. Steps are continuing to be taken to properly safeguard
Agency interests and personnel in_regard to names of Agency ;.

personnel who appeared Phi jaddress book or in other
notations appearing in any papers carried by other members

of the crew.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

A. Continue to take all possible steps to prevent any disclosure
to any unauthorized persons, particularly the press, about the
CIA personnel aboard the C-118, or the true nature of the
flight.

B. Continue to take all possible steps to°>hange the cover desig-
nation of the units appearing in|_ address book to
prevent any further compromise of these units.

C, Permit no further publicity about the flight itself, in order
to minimize the possibility of the press learning of the CIA
interest in the flight of the C-118,

D. Carefully follow all matters relating to the International
Court of Justice interest in this flight, in order to prevent
any compromise of Agency interests.

