# 104-10226-10037

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10226-10037

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ORIG :

UNIT:

EXT. 1.

NH/1/PA-PROP

4935

DATE.:

8 August 1901

16..

10;

JAHAY&

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONFI

BELL 10

INFO,: DOP, COP, ADOP/A, WH 5, 5,/'C 2

TO

INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S.BC R&T

lin

PA

To

19-120-26

ROUTING

CITE DIR

9 AuG 61 22. 442

-STO CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

(uT84213

05|77

PRIORITY WAVE

JMZIP

REFS: A. IN'GA-1687*

B. HAVB 7358 (IN 46766) +4

• L. AGRUB CO VIEW REZ & THAT KUCAGE ACTIVITIES ANGLADS/VERY MAROTIAL

VALUS.

2. RE THEIR REQUEST FOR AUDITIQAL FUNDS TO DEVELOP HALCOHES AB

COMMUNO GROW, FLAST HIS IN NO POSITION SUPPORT THIS TIPE OPS AT PRESENT

AND SECOLD UB DO NOT FEEL HALCOHES HAS SUFFICINT POINTIAL HARRANT SUCH

SUPPORT. OUR FEELING HOH IS THAT GULY UR PACTION WITH PA POLENTIAL, IB

ALREADY RECEIVING SUPPORI THROUGH AUHAZES.

3. IN VIEW ABOVE FAS WOULD LUKB TREI INATE FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE

AMGLADS AFTER AUGUST UNLESS YOU ABLE DEVELOP THIS AS REAL AUTUBE ASESTE.

REQUEST YOUR VISHS SOONEST RE KUTUES POTENTIAL ANGLAD 2, 3 AND 4 HITH

RECONMENDAT IONS SALARY POR BACH. AISO WOULD LIKE CONSIDER MAIRO TERMTHAI

PADABIFT TO WIDOM ANGIAD-1 INSTEAD ON CONTIIULEO NONTHLY SUASINY THRU ANGLADS.

ADYIS® AMOUFT SHE RECEIVING AND YOUR VISHS BEST HAY HANDIS THIS MATTER..

(CATTINUED)

DEPRASINO ORDICHS

OOIDINATIMO ORDIGI

09-16

REPRODUCTION EY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ORIG

UNIT

EXT

DATE,

-TO

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONT,

INFO,

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

FBCRBI

ROUTING

• PALE THO

10

INFO

CITE DIR

HE GRI

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

14815

05177

4. PIS CLARITY AMOLADS USB REMAININO $4000 OF $10, 000 ADVANCE WHICH

CO IUSTRUCTED TISM BE UEZ TO DETRAY SUPERBIES COMINO MONTAS IN LIBU MONTHLY

SUBSIDY TLIY HAD BEELI RECHIVING PER RET A.

END OF MESSAGR

Wi Comment:

*Report on firet contact with ANGLADe by Koapman, case

sfficer

#*Said AMGLADs Lad accounted for expenditure os $6000 advancod

to then by WAVB, (of which "the resaining 34000 vas to be used

to defray expenses in llou of the $1525 monthly subaldy they

had been receiving" according to Ref and that wavE planned

shots Liaited

evidence PI potential and pending receipt las commento on Ras A.

б.

C/*

Heyears

COOPOIMATIMO ORRIES

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Mo

---

