# 104-10273-10313

## Page 1

1704-10273-10313

1

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

182 83 801

D351001018

Inseructions for Divisions and Scolla:

1. Fill in and Sign on line 11.

2. Use bock of fom for any additional comments.

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION /Circle il appropriatel 130 CHARACTERSI

7

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

2.

FORM

CH

LETTER

AIRGRAM

FROM/ORIGINATOR (30 CHARACTERS)

WitH ATTACHMENTS: - SANiTizeRSioN

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERSI

11

JuN 16

3

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

4

S

5

6

7

9

10

11

SUBJECT 180 CHARACTERS)

GrAND PATiCK Hemming, SF #429-229

TYPE

OF

REVIEW

A

DATE

OF

REVIEW

DAY

14

20

MONTH

YEAR

86

JAN 84

Determinations:

A. Release in full text

B. Release in sanitized form

C. Deny in toto

D. Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

H. Coordinate with (Specify in line_8)-

DEFER DECISION TO I10 CHARACTERS: COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS)

E. Sustain initial denial in toto

_ F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

G. Release additional information

SIGNATURE OF DO/IMSIFPLE REVIEWING OFFICER

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (D0 CHARACTERS)

FOIA

(61) ва вз)

84 B5 B6 B7C

11 к1

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

E.0. 12356

x

1. Classification

2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

3. Information pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify the

source

5.

Information pertaining to a source

6.

Information pertaining

intelligence methods

7.

Location

of CIA overseas

installation

8. Location of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9.

Name foyF

СГА

employee S

10.

File number S

11.

Pseudonym

12.

Cryptonym

13.

Internal organizational data

14.

Name

of an FBI agent

15.

FBI file number

16.

He need to

coord a refer

to 0S. De

Privacy of other individual

17.

Does not pertain to request

19. Other (Specify in line 1l)

larcial in tote,

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(k) (1)

(59(1)

(5)(1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(0) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(3) (1)

(5) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(6) (7) (0) 1j) (1)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

(b)

S

REMARKS UF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVEI (40 CHARACTERSI

(A)

SIGNATURE/O

REMARKS 1160 CHARACTERS!

See notes an t$ 00643

12

HSCA Box, #19 SANiTiZE- SecuRiTy FiR GrAD P.Htemmi

DUP SEE DOC Nº,977,978,4234

Thia Form en Unclassoliad Unless The Classiticarion is Charlo

and The Inlormation below is complered.

14 ATT: IN 944357

CL BY

DECLOADK

---

## Page 2

13-00000

3200190410)

CHiL

LJ CONF

POUTING AMO ASCORD SHEST

NO.

SECRET

HENNING, Gerald Patrick

•erry G.

Brotin

P. pui! Ch

Security Analysis

•Ende cougration, reum nursee, grat

Groun

1!3.40

¿..

429 229

4400

11 June 1976

DATE

RECEIVEO

OFFICER'S

iNITIALS

COMPENTS (Number sach commer: 8a 1990 iag.a wham

to whom.

Dou o line across courr nice disa eatenant.)

1g 26: 81 (2) ret 4300

1s: 6/2/9

Fant the bite

Bave tole

PLISAG

16121126

13.

11.

12.

iз.

:

530367

X

WHCL15517150

, NON-REC DOC

CONFIDENTIAL D

CONDUETED ON EARN 12358

CL REVIEW BY _ 0109294

DO DECL I DOWNGR TO _

REVW ON - DADR

CITATION.

#

• 01018

FULL TEXT COPY. - DU NUT. RELEASE

001018

---

## Page 3

13-00000

11 June 1976

MENORANDUN FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

HENNING,

Gerald

Patrick

SF#429

229

1.

On 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and

Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HENNING.

was referred to the writer,

who is holding the HEMMING

contacted the writer,

• advised that ha

is the action officer for a cable from

the Guatemala Station

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUN of Guatemala.

! was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald. Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

On HEMMING.

was requested to alert

and JMWAVE

to the below mentioned cable and to provide the writer with a

copy of the report coming in

from the Guatemala Station.

(provided the writer with a cop! of the cable

(IN 944357,

June 1976),

which is attached.

In substance, the cable reflects that

circa 8 June 1976 a Guatemalan source, with the knowledge of

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD,

provided the (Guatemala Station

a written report

, and a detailed briefing,

concerning a plot

to assassinate

President LAUGERUD.

According to the

informa-

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

"Colle" LeMeRi Sate tehe cuitenada

•one of the major conspirators,

of an attack

upon his,

ZIMERI's, life. ZINERI has been living

in Miami since August 1975.

Novement was indone wthe report he vasons latera poot

and ZINERI in turn was involved with two Ancricans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. The HENNING brothers

were flown to Guatemala in

assisteù ZINERI in acquiring small aircraft:

among other things;

The report also

claims that ZINERI has close relations with police officials

in Miami and New: Orleans.

E2 IMPDET

C1. BY 005061

---

## Page 4

13-00000

NOTE:: The Cuatemala Station also included

information the Chief of Station had received

from

• on 8 jurio.

said thai he

had been providing information on ZIMERI to the

Guatemalan governnent for the past six months of

50.

He clained that two Americans were involved

service

in Miani.

described one of the Americans as about six feet

four inches and weighing about

230 pounds.

4.

The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c.

Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatcmala?

d.

Does ZIMEKI receive any kind of preferen-.

tial treatment by U. S. authorities

permit him to carry

firearms, as well as

to purchase arms and ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?.

e.

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

On 19 June 1976

'advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

7.

From the name, physical description,

activity,

and

alleged

Patrick HEMING

is identical with the subject of Office of Sccurity file

429 229, who has been

described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,

who 1s a notorions mercenary and soldier of fortune and nio

as

of May 1975 vas ostensibly employed by a private

investigation

company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

Miani, Florida.

societ

---

## Page 5

13-00000

20038

Gorald Patrick HEMMING is well known

to this Agine;,

the Office of Security Miani Field Office, and

hind claimed Agency affiliation when in fact there

ai luasi in carly isco "has been

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING clained such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his servis

to the Dru! Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMINC

is a long-time cohurt of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SFL353 459),

of Watergate notoriety

long-time record of

Frank FIORIN' falsely claiming Agency

who also has"

the late 1950's HEMMING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionnent with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thercafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he naned the International

Anti-Conmunist Brigade:

A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) wis

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMMING.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot

involving HEMMING, you are referred to attachments to instant

memorandum,

to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 Jun?

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNt, i;

and an extract fron a book published in early 1976 written by

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

in America--The CIA and the

Assassination of John F

€ John t. Kenne

is a diatrine against the Agency

attempts to link the Agency

kith the assassination of President KENNEDY.

One of the major

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene

HALL. Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GAKRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetrition

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and

that members of this unit were connected with CIA.

GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is

interesting that he did

so after Gerald Patrick

HEMMING and

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISCN's investigation.

Sccurity Analysis Group

Atts

---

## Page 6

13-00000

desced?mo..

or comes 23.Ya Year

SECRET

!!?

Jen: 302'70

=i

STAFF

TOES

ZICE

Fil f

=

T 93195

911769

ET

5=2220Z JUN 76

PAGE 01

TOR: 0822423 JUN 76

STAFF

1:1

84÷357

CITE

SO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO CLAMIAMI?

REFS: h.

: (14 937052)

NOT SENT CLAIMIANI, (IN 890367) .

1.

PASSED (STATION WRITTEN REPORT AND MADE

ERBAL REPORT IN DETAIL, ALL WITH KNOHLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

NREF A CASE AND RESULTS. ACCORDING REPORT AND

; NATIONAL

¡BERATION MOVEMENT MLND WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

I ME A I SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINCE AUGUST 75.

N PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD, PLOT HAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

UT iS SEPTEMBER 75 BUT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LISE

ATE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATNENT.

EPORT AND

CLAIM THAT THO AMERICANS, BROTHERS ROBERT AMO

EGALE PATRICK HEMMING INO STATION TRACESS, WERE ALSO

YVOLVED WITH ZINERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISYED HIM IN

COUTRING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN DO GUATEMALA

-LEGÄLLY IN SHALL AIRCRAFT, REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE 65) REQUESTS

• LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLOUS:

SECRET

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SIC DISSO: MY.

TOTAL COPiES

SECRET

HENd OTION DE PIETE

SE COPY ECUELELOITEO

IN UNIT

RF. FILE.

BY

STAFF

VR

F

981395

E1 47 67

PAGE B2

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

IN 944357

A. IS EIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PREFERENTIAL TREÄTMENT BY

AUTHORITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

AS PUÄCHASE ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI.

?. IS. HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR-POSSIBLE USE INN

GUATEMALA....

• DO REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD HERMING.

E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY REGUEST HE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA.

SAYS HE LEFT GUATENALA ILLESILLY

BUT MARIVED IN STATES LEGALLY, BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HAS

EXPIRED AND FE THERE ILLEGALLY.

2.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

101100318

SECRET

COPY HEULDELOITEN

UidiT

FiF. FILE

VR

901395

E: 40÷7

PAGE 03

TOR:032242Z JUN 76

STAFF

IN: 949557

---

## Page 9

13-00000

'• 1

- i.

SECRET

CLY

POUTING ANO RECORD SHEST

•: ₴.

Gerald Patrick

EXTENSION T NO.

terry G. Brotin

Putr Chi:?

Socurity Analysis Group

argenlion, trum nurane, g.as

4400

OFFICER'S

iNITIALS

429 229

11 June 1976

COMMENTS (Number soch comman: la 1990 ingo whan

to whom.

Door a line across caiurra pral

8159 &9779P.)

1.6!0

JATE

RECEIVED

TORNARDIO.

11 fin 2 6: 121

At 10p0 91

5.

PI13AG

T3.

TI.

iз.

"AND "POC" DO SECRET

CONFIDEUTIAL

TATERNAL

USE OHLY

INCLASSIED

001018

---

## Page 10

13-00000

11 June 1976

MEMORINDUN! FOR: Chief,

Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

SP# 429 229

Gerald Patrick

SF#429

On 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and

Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HENNING.

was referied to the writer, who is holding the HEMMING

contacted the writer,

• advised that he

is the action officer for

a cable from

the Guatemala Station

reporting

an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

! was unfamiliar

Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

was requested to alert

to the below-mentioned

cable and to provide the writer with a

copy of the report coming in from the Guatemala Station.

2

provided the writer with a copy

of the cable

(IN 944357,

dated 8 June 1976),

which is attached. In substance, the cable reflects

circa 8 June 1976

a Guatemalan source,

with the knowledge of

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the Guatemala Station •

a written

to assassinate

report, and a detailed brieflording

concerning a plot.

President LAUGERUD.

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

1975; however.

• one of the major conspirators, Jorge

Antonio

"Cokie" ZIMERI Safie left Guatemala

in August 1975

as a result

of an attack upon his,

ZIMERI'S, life. ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since August 1975.

3. According to the report, the National Liberation

Novement was involved with ZIMERI in the assassination plot

and ZIMERl in turn was involved with two Americans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING.

The HEMMING brothers

sisteu LIMERl in acquiring arms

among other things, which

vere flown to Guatemala in a snali aircraft.

The report also

claims that ZIMERI has close relations with

police officials

in Miami and New Orleans.

E? INPOET

CL. BY 00399:

• .s:л.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

NOTI:: The Cuatrmala Station also included

information the Chief of Station had received

- 011 8 june.

said thai ho

had been providing information on ZIMERI

to the

Guatchalan governnent for the past six months or

He claimed that two Americans were involved

with ZIMERI, one of them who

runs a guard

service

in Miami.

did not mention names but

described one of the Americans as

about six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

4. The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZINERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c. Is ZINERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d.

Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-.

treatment by U. S. authorities

permit him to carry firearms,

to purchase arms and ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?

e.

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

5.

On 19 June 1976

'advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZINERI or Robert HEMMING.

-29 229, Mio has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,

who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who

of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no

record) in

Jiani, Florida.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agons;,

th: Office of Security Niani Field Offico,

I claimed Agency affiliation when in fact

a dust the carly 1sóo ghas been

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drus Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HAVINC

is a long-time cohurt of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SFD353 459),

Frank FlORINI,

of Watergate notoriety who

also has ^

long-time record of falsely claiming Agenc

affiliation.

In

the late 1950's HENNING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Communist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) wis

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMMING.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot

involving HErMING, you are referred to attachments to instant

memorandum, to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 Jun.

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, .Ti.;

and an extract fron a book published in carly 1976 written by

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

The book Coup d'otai

in America--The CIA and the

Assassination of John F. Kennedy

is a diatrine against the Agency

and attempts to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY.

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugone

HALL.

Loran Eugene HALL Was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members of this unit were connected with CIA.

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is

interesting

that he did

so after Gerald Patrick

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN,

joined GARRISON's investigation.

Jerry G.

Brown

reyesity Chie:

Security Analysis Group

Atts

sher

---

## Page 13

13-00000

i dients

SECRET

Send ÷320220

STAFF P

#FIRE IS PRO-Ma.ra

GESTICE

Fil F

931595

PAGE D1

TOR: 082242₴ JUN 76

EC !!

ET 332228Z JUN 7Ó STAFF

1: 844357

ITE

O: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INTO (LA/MIAMI.

EFS: A.

B.

(1N1 937052)

INUT SENTCLASMIAMI (IN 890567)

1.

PASSED STATION WRITTEN REPORT AND NADE

ERBAL REPORT !! DETAIL, ALL WITH KNOHLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

I REF A CASE AND RESULTS. ACCORDING REPORT AND

NATIONAL

BERATION MOVEMENT (MIND WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

IM ER I SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINGE AUGUST 75,

I PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD, PLOT HAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

T i5 SEPTEMBER 75 BUT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LISE

TE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

PORT AND

CLAIM THAT TWO AMERICANS, BROTHERS ROBERT AND

SALE PATRICK HEMMING INDESTATION TRACESI, HERE ALSO

VOLVED HITH ZINERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISTED HIM IN

QUIPING ARMS, MCNG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN TO GUATEMALA

LEGÄLLY IN SHALL AIRCRAFT.. REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE 15) REBUESTS

LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLOWS:

SECRET

---

## Page 14

13-00000

SIC DIS::T: EY-

MUNIT NUTiFIEU

•EMOSIOTEO

RF. FILE.

TOTAL COPIE

SECRET

REFRiDDUCTION

ОРНСК В РИСНІ

З ріснів::

BY

STAFF

VR

T

9813?5

E14767

PAGE D2

TOR: 0822422 JUN 76

IN 944357

A• IS EIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT BY

AUTHORITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

AS FUÄCHASE ARMS

AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI.

?. IS. HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR-POSSISLE USE IN

GUATEMALA...:

D. REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD HERMING.

• E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY REGUEST HE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA.

SAYS HE LEFT GUATEMALA ILLESAILY

BUT iRRIVED IN STATES LEGALLY, BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HAS

EXPIRED AND FE THERE ILLEGALLY.

---

## Page 15

13-00000

divadio.

BF . FILE

931305

IOIAL COPIES

SECRET

_?.

-- tra

VR

.....

PAGE 03

TOR: 8022422 JUN ?6

RES-RODiCTION DE OrISE THAN

65 1і Рноів

¡STAFF

-..i.

IN: 844357

---

