# 104-10126-10316

## Page 1

1-100002 270

104-10126-10316

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

GUNHDENTIAL

*'INTERNAL USE ONLY

JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Friday - 9 December 1977

1. (Unclassified - ME) LIAISON I responded to a call received

last evening and discussed with Ms. Ryan Conroy, in the office of

Senator Alan Cranston (D., Calif.), the FOLA request from constituent,

Donald J. Hume. The Senator's office has received another letter

'from Mr. Hume asking for his help in persuading CIA to waive fees.

Ms. Conroy asked for a copy of our letter to Mr. Hume concerning

this subject and she will reply directly to Mr. Hume.

2. (Confidential- PG) LIAISON Together with Lyle Miller,

Deputy Legislative Counsel, and Ray Hart, OS, visited Leon Jaworski,

Special Counsel, House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct,

in his law offices. The purpose of our call was to give Mr. Jaworski

a compartmented briefing for access to SI material.. Mr. Jaworski

proved to be a cooperative briefee and an excellent raconteur.

3. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Pat Orr, Betsy Palmer, Edwin

Lopez, Gaeton Fonzi, Gary Cornwall, G. Robert Blakey, all members

of the House Select Committee In Assasinations staff, visited the Agency

to review several documents: Cuban Counter-Revolutionary Handbook,

Bayo-Pawley Affair, William Pawley, Frank Sturgis, sanitized IG Report

on Book-V. Notes were taken on the Cuban Revolutionary Handbook,

classified, sanitized, and couriered to the Committee offices. Other

notes for Pat Orr were retained until Monday.

4. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Took a call from Danny Coulson,

FBI General Counsel Office, who informed me that he had a "Cuban

Counter-Revolutionary Handbook'' in his possession which appeared to

be CIA-originated. He couriered the Book to me for disposition

and will follow with a cover memorandum.

5. (Internal Use Only - PG) LIAISON Dan Swellinger, Deputy

Special Counsel, Senate Select Committee on Ethics, and three staff

researchers made their first visit to Headquarters to review files.

Mr. Robert Brewster, formerly Chief FA/JK Branch and Deputy Chief

of Station in Seoul provided a briefing on the KCIA and orientation into

CIA files"The remainder of the afternoon was spent in file review.

2024/

INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

