2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

i ‘i : erat RS
he Oe re) 4
404 ECRFT Ferra; ieee
a” 10 2- STAFF
ACTION: LA-8 (792) —-IWFOt FILE, VK. DCI/PA. DDUS4, CS/RE. DOA. C/PCS.
CA-4, CCS2, Clad, COMMORZ, CWO-2, EPS/EG=2, IP/OMS, LSN/ID. UOPO-D, *
GEDNds OGC~2- OLE. S400/0) SE46, SECUR=3 SIA/FL, SIA/IC. (63/n)
78 0258730). PAGE 001 IN 0258730
peccee TOR: 270151Z JAN 78 | MEX. 43499
Baal pL lp uP aga Hyg AE
S € C RE T a700082 JAN 78 STAFF S sea
qe Hse"
CITE MEXICO CITY 43699
ve >
TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR. A) z
ary ey ae o
WNINTEL RANVIER MHSPLASH
.
REFS: A. CIRECTOR 154131 8,
B. DIRECTOR 154958 4 :
Cl MEXICU CITY 43602 0236567 Xr
D. . MEXICO CITY 431710 > \

1. REVIEW OF FEI DOCUMENTS RELATING TO LEE HARVEY oe
CSWALD TRANSMITTED BY TM=25066 WERE RECEIVED AT STATION
25 JAN AND HAVE BEEN REVIEWED. CONCUR HOS ASSESSMENT

CONCERNING POTENTIAL DAMAGE wHICH CAN BE DONE TO STATION'S
Eee | OPERATIONS AND LIAISON ACTIVITIES AS RESULT THEIR REVELATION.

* SHOULD DOCUMENTS BE SURFACED MEXICO CITY. BELIEVE WE CAN

ANTICIPATE THAT SENIOR MEXICAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS AWD

OUK LIAISON COUNTERPARTS WILL BE SHOCKED (AS THEY WERE IN

CASE OF PREVIOUS REVELATIONS) THAT ANY GUVERNMENT COULD

WILLINGLY REVEAL INFORMATION SQ EMBARRASSING AND COUNTER]

PRODUCTIVE TO BILATERAL RELATIONS.

2. IN ADDITIGN TO THE DOCUMENTS LISTED IN REF Be
THERE ARE OTHERS wHICH COME CLOSE 10 CONFIRMING COMMUNIST
ALLEGATIONS CONCERNING RELATIGNSHIPS BETWEEN FBI/CIA AND
MEXICAN SECURITY ORGANIZATIONS AND OFFICIALS. HQ@S wILL
RECALL THAT KDIMPACT/1 SPECIFICALLY WARNED (REF D) ABOUT
COOPERATION WITH THE MIWISTRY UF GOVERNMENT BEING MADE PUBLIC
AND SAID THAT THIS WOULD "CAUSE GRAVE PROBLEMS FOR ALL
CONCERNED." SUM TOTAL THESE DOCUMENTS wILL GO A LONG WAY
TOWARDS CONFIRMING RECENT COMMUNIST ATTEMPT TO EMBARRASS THE
VICE*PRESIDENT BY SURFACING BANNER ARTICLE IN PROMIENT LOCAL
NEWSPAPER ABOUT CIA USE OF MEXICAN OFFICIALS TU SPY OW
MEXICG CREF C). SPECIFIC DOCUMENTS WHICH WILL SUPPORT THE
- COMMUNIST ALLEGATIONS ARE AS FOLLOWS:

A. BLIND MEMO BY FBI DATED MARCH 16. 1964 CAPTIONED,
LEE. HARVEY OSWALD." FIRST PARAGRAPH: "A CONFIDENTIAL
SOURCE ABROAD WHO IS THOROUGHLY FAMILIAR wITH THE WORKINGS
GF THE MEXICAN MINISTRY OF GOBERNACION JINTERIOR) HAS

SECRET

o100)


SECRET
. STAFF
78 02587308 PAGE 002 IN 02587564
CORRECTED COPY TOR: 2701512 JAN 78 MEXI 43699

Oe eee et ee i i inte i i itt ane itS

FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE PROCEDURES
UTILIZED BY THE MEXICAN IMMIGRATION SERVICE IN CONNECTION
WITH THE ENTRY AND DEPARTURE OF NON@MEXICAN CITIZENS INTO
AND OUT OF MEXICU.*

B&B. URGENT CLASSIFIED TELEGRAM TO DIR/FBI FRUM
LEGAT MEXICO CITY, NO. 3606 DATED 2e7*64, CONTAINS STATEMENT?
"LIC. LUIS ECHEVERRIA, ACTING MINISTER OF GOBERNACION. WILL
BE NOTIFIED RE PUSSIBLE POLYGRAPH EXAMIWATION OF ROJAS. HIS
IDENTITY AND ALLEGATIONS MADE BY ROJAS RE KEWNEDY ASSASSINATION
AND ECHEVERRIA'S COGPERATION REQUESTED TO CONDUCT SAID
EXAMINATION.*® -

C. MEMO TO DIRECTOR, FHI FROM LEGAT. MEXICO. DATED

APRIL 28, 1964 REVIEWS INVESTIGATIUNS CARRIED OUT BY FBI
AGENTS IN MEXICO CITY. UNDER "SA JOSEPH B. GARCIA" ON PAGE
TWO APPEARS THE FOLLOWING REPORT: “HANDLED LIAISON WITH THE
MEXICAN MINISTRY OF GOVERNMENT, RECEIVING COPIES OF DOCUMENTS
AND DATA FROM LICENCIAOO CATTORWEY) LUIS ECHEVERRIA. ACTING
MINISTER, AND THE SUB*DIRECTOR OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IMMIGRATION.

cma LICENCIADO RAFAEL HERNANDEZ OCHOA. ALSO HANDLED LIAISON WITH

a. THE MEXICAN FEDERAL SECURITY POLICE AND ARRANGED FOR DELIVERY
OF A COPY OF THE SIGNED STATEMENT OF SILVIA TIRADO DE DURAN
BY CAPTAIN FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS.*

D. BLIND FBI MEMO DATED MAY 5. 1964 AND CAPTIONED
"LEE HARVEY USWALD" SAYS ON PAGE 9: “ON MARCH 24, 1964,
CAPTAIN FERNANDO GUTIERKEZ BARRIOS. SUB=DIRECTOR OF THE
MEXICAN FEDERAL SECURITY POLICE (DFS), ADVISED THE THIRD
CONFIDENTIAL SGUKCE ABROAD THAT HIS AGENCY HAD CONDUCTED
NO INVESTIGATION IN CGNNECTION WITH THE TRAVEL IN MEXICO
QF LEE HARVEY’ OSWALD AND D1D NOT HAVE IN ITS POSSESSION ANY
PASSENGER LISTS FROM ANY BUS LINES."

3. OTHER DOCUMENTS OFFICIAL RECOGNIZE THAT CIA IS

ACTIVE IN MEXICO CITY. THAT CIA MAINTAINS A STATION IN

MEXICO CITY. HAS JURISDICTION OVER AND MONITORS THE

ACTIVITIES OF THE CUBAN AND SUVIET EMBASSIES. AND CONDUCTS

"SENSITIVE COVERAGE" OF THESE INSTALLATIONS (PHOTOGRAPH) *

PRIOR ALLEGATIONS OF CLANDESTINE ACTIVITIES OF THE FBI IN
- MEXICO ARE ALSO CONFIRMED BY STATEMENTS SUCH AS "DECLASSIFICATION
(OF THE DOCUMENT) WOULD DAMAGE OUR OPERATIONS Iw MEXICO
CI1lv," REFERRED TO IN AT LEAST FIVE DOCUMENTS. TwO UF THE
DOCUMENTS GO SG FAR AS 10 IDENTIFY THAT THE FBI HAD A
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANT (AN ACCOUNTANT) IN THE CUBANA AIRLINES
“OFFICE IN MEXICO CITY. ANOTHER MEMO DATED APRIL 1, 1964

SECRET


SECRET

78 0258730A PAGE 003 IN 02587304
CURRECTED COPY TOR: 2701512 JAN 78 MEXI 436099

ACKNOWLEDGES THAT CIA HAD AW OPS INTEREST AT ONE TIME OR ANGTHER
IN THREE ANTI@CASTRO GROUPS. THE DRE, JURE. AND 30TH OF
NOVEMBER.

4. HOS STATED IN REF 8 THAT IT HAD MADE RECOMMENDATIONS
TO THE FRI/FOIA FOR FURTHER DELETIONS IN, AND DENIAL OF.
CERTAIN DOCUMENTS. wE ARE ESPECIALLY CONCERNED ABOUT THE FOUR
DOCUMENTS LISTED IN PARAGRAPH ONE ABOVE. PLS ADVISE URGENTLY WHAT
ACTION WAS TAKEN BY THE FBI CUNCERNING THESE SPECIFIC DOCUMENTS.
PRESUME THAT ALL DGCUMENTS NOw MADE PUBLIC AND THUS TOO LATE ®
TO DENY THEIR RELEASE. 7

5S. STATION PLANNING PROVIDE COPES OF ALL THE
DOCUMENTS TO KDIMPACT/1 IW ORDER TO ALERT HIM WHAT TYPE OF
PUBLICITY MAY BE FORTHCOMING.

6. FILES 200"120°150. E2- IMPDET.

END OF MESSAGE SECRET
