# 104-10106-10396

## Page 1

104-10106-10396

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND/ON INITIALS - SEEN BY

TOTAL COPILS:

G Lawrence R. Houston

RHL

5

6

SECRET

IT: General Counsel

DERF

÷16111

RQ.42

TE 1.9 May 1970

SLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

30 PAME

... 1.:

DJ INDEX

• FILE IN CS FILE NO.

• NO INDEX•

• RETURN TO

BRANCH

File ITKIN

I FILE RID

OGC 2

(classification)

15-1

(LONDON

RYBAT KEYWAY

•C EURS

(dato and timo filed)

(olito):

(reforence number)

1922

3 G-Z HAN 70

CITE DIRECTOR

035476

(pica)

3

1. HERBERT ITKIN WAS A VOLUNTARY INFORMANT IO JKLANCE

STARTING 1962 AND CONTINUING AFTER 1965. HERERORIEDUHRQUGH

STAFENGEYLUNDER UNQFICUD COVERINAIVELORK THIS

ACKNOWLEDGED IN PAPER SUBMITTED TO FEDERAL DISTRICI COURT

IN NEW: YORK, NOT NEW YORK SUPREME COURT. ITKIN WAS NOT

CONTROLLED AGENT, AND JKLANCE HAD NOTHING WHATSOEVER TO

DO WITH: TRAVEL TO ENGLAND IN 1965 OR ANY OTHER TIME.

2.

ITKIN HAS COMPLICATED LEGAL PROBLEMS INVOLVING CUSTODY

OF WIFE'S CHILDREN, WHO UNDER COURT ORDER WERE NOT SUPPOSED

TO LEAVE NEW YORK JURISDICTION. AS RESULT OF HER TRAVEL TO

ENGLAND IN 1965 WITH CHILDREN SHE LOST CUSTODY TO HER FIRST

HUSSAND. ITKIN, THEREFORE, IS CLAIMING TRAVEL WAS UNDER

DIRECTION JKLANCE IN ORDER TO INFLUENCE NEW YORK STATE COURT

TO RESTORE CUSTODY OF CHILDREN - continued on page.two

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

GROUP T

cluded front autoroll

SECRET

3

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TRIAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

COPY NO.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

LiG:

19T:

.T:

ATE:

HOLE SECRETARIAT DISSERINATION

PER

ONF:

N

FILE, VR.

(classilication)

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

INDEX

• NO INDEX

3 FILE IN OS FILE NO.

2

RETURN TO

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SCEN BY

'8

8

BRÄNCH

" FILE RID

(alito)

(reference number) "y

(pici

¡dato and timo filad)

PAGE TWO

CITE DIRECTOR

035776

LIO WIFE. ITKIN SUPPORIS CLAIM BY DETAILED STORY, WHICH ON CAREFUL?

INVESTIGATION WE CAN DEMONSTRATE TO BE FABRICATION.

3. BACKGROUND OF SITUATION EXTREMELY COMPLICATED.

FRANKLIN I. TINKHAM, WHO PERSONALLY HANDLING CASE WITH

DEPÄRTMENT OF JUSTICE AND VARIOUS INTERESTED PARTIES IN NEW

YORK, LEAVING FOR MUNICH THURSDAY EVENING, 21 MAY, TWA 704,

ARRIVING LONDON, 8:10 A.M., 22 MẠY. CAN DELAY DEPARTURE FOR

MUNICH TO LUFTHANSA 225, LEAVING LONDON 7:45 P..M., 22 MAY, IF

DETAILED BRIEFING WANTED FOR STATION ONLY AND NOT (SMORANGES.

4. PLEASE INE

ARM SOONEST.

anni

RELEASING OFFICER

REPRON

DC/CI

Fisalpien

EA/ DDP

EUR DIVISION

Pillet

SUSa

Lawrence R. Houston

General Counsel

COORDIMATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded from quionalle

dongrading and

declossilicallon

TION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

' AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

COPY NO.

---

