“'404-10123-10323) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J
ee fe

feed stahhy HIGTED
Acting Chief, Security Livision 5 December 1952

Acting Chief, Physical Security Branch
Security Violation - Unlocked Safe.

1. On 18 November 1952 at 9:25 P.M. and 9230 Pole respectively, Safes
67525 and £5847, each containing material classified through S!CRET, Hooms
2709 and 2711, "I" Building, were found unlocked by Guard Moses Kinard,
The dial of each safe was in the opening position and all the drawers were
closed. Night Security Officer Ray Sy Colton Jresponded to the telephone call
from the Guard Office and secured the” ‘safes, after placing an explanatory note
in each.

2. On 19 and 28 Kovenber 1952, Mr. Harry HK. Dugan, of thie Branch, in-
vestigated the violation, after contacting Mr. C.J. King, Security Officer,
1sS, during the course of the investigation aed fugh C. Brodeur} Stenographer,
Hr. Arthur Avignone, Assistant Project Desk Chief, and Mr. James P, O'Connell,
Project Uesk Chief, all of SSD,I&S, were interviewed, So

©:
3. Mies Grodeer) advised that she wis not custodian of either safe on
the date in question. che stated that she had departed at about 7:20 P.M,
that Mr. O'Connell had re-opened Safe 77525 and that she had stored her ma-
terial in the safe at about 7:15 P.M. “he indicate: that it was her belief
that she had properly locked and checked this safe, although she had not
initialed the Safe Check ‘Sheet.

4. Kr. Avignone advised that he was custodian of Safe #5847 on the
date in question. He stated that it was his belief that he had properly se-
cured and checked it, before departing at about 5:05 P.i. te stated also that
¥r. O'Connell and Mies (rodeur)had worked late. He stated further that he
had checked with all other personnel in the area and none had returned to
the office after Mr. O'Connell had departed.

5. Mr. O'Connell advised that he is {n posession of the combinations
to all eafes in Rooms 2709, 2711, and 2713. He stated that he had essumed
responsibility for the Staff Duty Officer inspection of the area on the date
in question, that he had departed at about 6:20 P.H., and that the area was
vacant at that time. lie stated also that he had re-opened Safe #7525 at
about 7:15 P.M. to enable “iss Grodeur)to secure matcrial in it, but that he
had not re-opened Safe £5@,,7.°7 He stated further that he had observed Miss

03 Grodeur)eccuring Safe #7525, that he felt certain that she had secured it pro-
perly, and that, for this reason, he had not checked it. He advised that he
had not checked cafe #5847 because it was his belief that 1t had been secured.
He indicated that the employees who hac access to the combination to the safe
had been contacted, but that there was nothing to indicate that any of then
had returned to the office after his departure.

RESTRICTEN


2p

RESTRICTED

SECUS TY IFCRR ATION

& Mr. King advised thet he and kr. Edward J, Kane, of SSD, had
checked on the possibility that someone had mr -opened the instant safes
after Mr. O'Connell's departure, but that there waz no indication that anyone
had done 60,

CONCLUSION: 4.23

7. The circusstances in this case indicate that Miss Brodeur), Mr.
Avicnone ‘and Mr, O'Connell are jointly responsible for ihe security Violation.
SECURITY HISTORY:

er
8, No previous security violations have been charged to Hiss (@rodeur)
Er, Avignone, or Kr. O'Connell. :

JOHN D. SALB

RESTRICTED

-2- :
