# 104-10107-10161

## Page 1

-00000

104-10107-10 161

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RÉCORDS ACT OF 1992'°

SSIFIED

NTERNAL

USE ONLY

COl. IDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM.

Agency Relationship with Herbert Itkin

EXTENSION

NO.

C/WH/7/Ht

DATE

TO: (Officer designation,, room number, and

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

• ME. Saw i lie oct so column ef the dr comment.

• whom.

DC/WH/7

Attached is a copy of the

memo prepared by C/WH/7/CI

on the subject of Agency

contact with Herb Itkin.

2.

3.

4.

Ir. John K. Greaney

OGC -Tube: BX-5 (Green'

JKG

6.

7.

8.

?.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USE PREMOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

0ge 68.1870

SICBET

MELIORANDUM FOR & CHIEf, WH/FI

SUBJECT

& Herbart Itk1n

There has been no Agency contact with Itll. Ray

nocc" c/CI/aan stated tant ci saff definitely ever ver

1n contact uith hla, RAy ROCCA A SOUrCE Of lAfO On the DEJOlE-

MAX BOLTE-ITKIN & COMPANY, ACtUItIES VIA HAX BOLT and Bot

2. Offices checked for possible contact, all of uhich

proved negative, more:

OffICe Or SeCUrItY, MORABIC COntACtE

Service, Domestic Operations Diviaion, CA/3, CA/S, WH/? and

CI/A

8 A.

3.

On 13 May 1963 IMIN reported to DIA In San Jual

the roguise of his meeting with DEJOlE, BOLTS, FIGNOLE did

Jac sturiad 10 their corrutlon of the Provinional Haltlan

Goverument in Balle forned In Sun Juan on Li day & that

InXIN had been hired by that group as 1tn Attarney.

10 JUnE 1963 XTKIN reglatored with the Departnent of 3tate

an a foreign agent for thie group adding that he made a

personal loan to DITOlE of $15, 000.

A Sat liny 1963 Menorandun of COnverestiOn IrOn the

Department of State sets forth the resulta of an informal..

meeting (possibly holù on 28 AprIl 1963) attended by forfest

5. ASBULL (OffICer 1u Charge, HALLIOn AffalIE, StatE ARA/CRA),

DEJOIE, BOLTE, A (ION) BRODIE, And ITIN, In which Didolk

expressed his

political views, asked for U.S. support for

an LovaBion of Malth, U.S. recognition of the PrOVIElOnAl

Governest la Balle, e%c.

herevita appached.

Appropriate docunents nubstantlating above are

03

(Janes T. O. BERaCLadE;

C/VR/T/CI

18 JuLy 1868

---

