104-10107-10140| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 | a

° Eapuneassiri = MA, OD cone iia (. secret .:
: a ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET cera

SUBJECT: (Optional)

"S| COMMENTS (Number each comment to show,from.whom «| i
ALS | fo whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

OGC--Mr, Houston \ for your files
7D 01
Is

OGC SUBJECT: ITKIN,. HERBERI

FORM

foe 610 “EE C] SECRET (C]_ CONFIDENTIAL (] INTERNAL =—7]_UNCLASSIFIED


When did you meet Mr. Brod?
When did you report upon Brod to Globe CO for first time?

Have you had conversations with Itkin about Brod? If so, when
(detail each), what was substance of each? (The real point is

whethex(Roberts)is forthcoming on these matters and gives the
appearance of putting all of his memory to work, The object is

elicitation not prejudgment, prejudicial or otherwise.)

What do you know about the Conostoga enterprise? Did you have

‘
a financial or other interest in it? [VU

When did Itkin (first) tell you that he was an FBI agent? Did you
ever tell him you were an FBI agent?" {Bear in mind we don't know

GS
what the record is at FBI in Boston and New York re(Roberts) )

How much did you contribute financially to the funding of the
(a)

Did Itkin ever discuss (or infer) with you any alleged confidential

service for U.S, Gov't before establishment oo)

(July 1957)? From firm founding to your application of CIA (1961)?

In the period since?


Did Itkin know you had made application for any federal service?
Ifso, what service(s)? What was cover story for departure from

firm--was it backstopped?

Have you had personal contact(s) with Gianpiero TALENTI, Itkin's

former brother-in-law?

Has Itkin ever discussed numbered Swiss bank accounts with you?

During your stays overseas, did you communicate with Itkin (or
anyone in his family or office or otherwise)? Letters, telegrams,
long distance calls? If so, are evidences in your files? Substance

of the communications?

Were you aware of Adah Itkin's stay in U.K,, 1965-66? What did
Itkin tell you about her reasons for going and staying there? Were
you aware that such a stay involved custodial problems affecting
Adah's two children by her second husband, HERSCH? Do you know

HERSCH?
