104-10121-10179 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

: ~ .

2

Zz
a?

woe

MEMORANDUM FOR: Special Agent in Caarge
Dictrict Fleld Office

SUBJECT : MORALES, David Sanchez
#39N18 B= sD/2

1. You ere requested, Office of Origin, to obtain, through
your established contact, afhistrict of Columbia
for the captioned Subject. ~

2. The Subject is identified as follows:

Alles: [Diese Salvator Hirenta [| OT

Race: te (Indtan)

Sexs Mele

Birth: 26 August 1925, Phoenix, Arizona

Height: 520"

Weight: 220 lbs.

Eyes: Brown

Hair: Black

Address: ob 53) Ast Street, N. E.
wshington, D. C.

Occupstion: Salesman

{0
3-.,The Subject has a valid true nam Flori: License (umber (6
3, Yten expires in August 1963. ~

a 4. It is requested that when the alias permit is obtained, you

suite notify Headquarters by telephone for advice as to where it should be

! “delivered. Thereafter, your written report should be submitted when
—practicable.

thin

Alias Drivers Permit

GP)


The above assignment is based upon a verbal request from Richard

KING, WH 4, on 19 January 1952. A similer assignment was scheduled in

early Decerber 1961, but the case was cancelled because the Subject

did not have a valid true-name permit from any, state and DFO advised

it could not obtain the alias [permit from the (District of Columbia 3 /

Registry of Motor Vehicles.\| With regard to address as shown

ibove, KING requested that be backstopped. Accordingly, I advised
o3 wid Aukstikelnis|/on 19 January 1962 to arrange with WFO to backstop

address in th® Subject's alias.

19 January. 1962
PENDING ¢
