# 104-10183-10303

## Page 1

104-10183-10303

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

WH/C 66-103

201-749651

MENORANDUN FOR: litrector, Domestic Contact Sorvice

SUBJECT : Vladimir RODRIGUEZ Latera

Subject was engaged I May 1964 under a Honoran

dur of Oral Commitmen¿"

ToI usU as an agent in

of Cuban Operationg, particularly in the recruitment and

dafection of Cuban

Intelligence personnil and diplorats.

The western leniaphere Division sill continue to esploy

Subject as an agent and will maintain primary rusponsi

bility for

Subjeet folloning the granting of his roquest

for persianent residence in the United states.

Subject is a caucasian male born 6 February

1937 In RaVaDA, CUbA.

He 18 5 feet 2 Inches tall,

and

weighs approxinately 130 pounds.

He has a long faco,

mediun complexion, black hair and broan dyes, and is

neAt In appEarance.

Subject is the son of Carlos

NON:IGUEZ Forrer and JOSEfa LAHURA MarreRO, uho reside

10 Havana, Cuba.

3. KODRIGUEZ attended liscuela Publica $46, firat to

sixth grade; Prinaria Superior #19,

seventh and eighth

grado; Artes y Oficios (Construction Civil) one year; •

aud Instituto de Habana for tro years.

Subject was a merbor of thu Cuban Rebel Army

Irom 1957 to 11961, during which tine be advanced fron

the rank of Private to Llcutunant.

Ho saB imprisoned

et Castello Principe, Cuba, Iron 14 July 1957 to 11

February 1958 for participation in sabotage and propa-

ganda actlvities on behalf of the 26th of July dovement.

He then Joined Eldel CASTiO's forces in the Sierra

and resained there until the end of 1956 when

he returned to Havana upon the fall of the BATISTA

Governient.

He sas a precinct libutenant of the cuban

out of work until April 1962, at which time he tag ex-

ployed by the dinistry of fordign TIade shore he rerained

untll he bocano a staff norber of thu Gineral Diroctotate

of Intelligunce in August 1263.

He was a nenber of this

SECRET

recassricalee

---

## Page 2

4.00000

SECRET

uganization uatil bla refection in Apri! 1561.

vas at station apar to baito-

ligenco routingo.

Subject was nerds assor late kith the Communlat

Othes then his pa:ticipation in tho anti-

ratista strugblo in 145i 2n:: his Beltices sor the 26th

01 July Miserent, Siljoct 19 not known to have engaged

In any pulitical activity.

In 1926 he Joined Fidel

CASTRO'S JUICES IN thE SICIlA MAUBEIN, LEtUInIng tO

Havana upon the fall o1 the batista Govenient.

%.

subscut is curenti; in Miani employiri as an

tos CIA for chich ho seculuda a sa!a!] O!

$600.00

pas month anr! in ahich is pays U.s. Incure tar.

It 18

expocted that his emplosaent by this Agency sill continue

as long as the present govermient du Cuba 18 in existence.

If the CASTRO GuVUranEnt tETE OVEthrn 1u LAPOr DI A

Hun-toFunist tun it Governnent and SubIc-t's usciulness

to ClA tere obviatc, thu Agency moulo

assist him in

gaining employment tith an Anulican fiin that has

business a890.1at100g nith out!ets o1 11in3 10 Latio aur

Central Arelica these ho could usa his natire language

and knoulc?go o1 Latin Anuiicans and theli retbodo.

1t 18 belleved that Subject toul picier to

to Cuba 11 a non-Cormunist Gorenment de!€ 10

and that he suuli le an assit in the cstablishuent

01 that govtimrant.

The only Agrary conaltzent cavit

subject is that he toulo be assistio in oitainlog pi ra-

nent restience in the Juited Status.

W1Llian V. Brot

Chief

Engelics

25 August

1966

Distribution:

Orig &

1 - Acriessee

C/WHD

WH/Registry

- C/KH/C

WH/C/LSEC

WH/C/CICS

DCI

1 - OS/AAS

SECUET

:a 1

19D

---

