104-10123-10043| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J
7 7 Ea .

Le) Ka :
oem wo(oiitig) 13869

Has. File No. 6616/4
Field File No. 20-21

To: Chief, WE : DATE: 3 October 1958
Attn: Robert A. Winnett : pict (5-13
FROM +t Chief of Station, (fhe Hague) |. THO: 005, Germany) | i
eieistcitt . Satie o i : 2 ard
coro SUBJECT: cenerat *( syncuRONy). ° Be Taveil

SPECIFIC—  Hede *UASSING -

: si ;
REFERENCE: .°  ( ONEA) 13764, 19 September 1958

biasing:

1. Subject arrived with Lavell from Frankfurt on schedule and *
contacted Fagg and Meppiel who arranged for a meeting with({SYuPA~ of
THIZER/5Q0)on 25 September and a meeting with (GYWPATHDAER/1T on :
26. September. : o}

2, HASSING and wits outlined their plans for the research
project which is mentioned in reference correspondence. and which will ~
apparently be the subject of discussion in Headquarters when Mrs.
MASSING is in Washington in the near future. - The GyuPamilaiRy"dis-
cussed in some detail fe possibilities of acquiring inforaation of
interest to them in th GYiICHRONY) project by using this research, ,.. °

-/ project as a vehicle for making contacts with persons in(Hollana) aa i
whom, they have not been able to contact directly with _any hope of.
success. Most of these individuals mentioned by the GyuraTaTceRs)o IL
are-sone of the well-lmown subjects of (SYNCHRONY cases presently ‘
living in Gollandylalthough a few prominent” ex-communists were added

} to assist lirs. MASSING in getting the interviewing started in
Golland)if her project ds approveds
gan ee ) :

3e Fade and Méppiel made it clear that this project would
appear, to them to be one which would have a scope beyond that 35
present GYiPATHIZER)interest and that although the (SYuPaTilaiRs )o/
would be pleased to capitalize upon it for what success it would
bring within the somewhat limited number of individuals to whom

wo it-would give access, the whole project comprising interviewing
: done in other countries as well ad (Holland as it appears to be
planned would have to be accepted by Washington as of interest to |
Washington in itself. Thus, although the project is of interest
to the @I@ATSIARR 3| it could. aot be sold on that basis alones
os f o paar Pdf d.|otae

4. \S/11_ and (8/50 Sppreciate the opportunity which they have

had to speak to lirs. MASSING in person, although it is evident that

2 gant, 51-28 A CLASSIFICATION
[PV :



Ra

J
eee ; (oma)13060
3 October 1958
Page Two

very little, if any, new information could ever be expected to

come out of. her own recollection of incidents in the past. If the
project is approved, however, the YuPATUIZERS have promised to give...
full support to it in the form of suggestions?! briefings of her

on persons who should be contacted, background information, and
suggestions. for likely subjects to be contacted outside are

: where appropriate.

) ah Tory

[pace T. Fagg

Distribution:
3-1
2 — cos gis?
2. ~(hague) 5-

1 October 1958shnd

