# 104-10179-10232

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10179-10232

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

=

SECRET

6 Norember : 863

MEMORANDUM FCiR: Chlor, Spocial Alfaira Stall

SUBJECT

" ANiTONLO -PROJOCE JiNHARI

1. Chlol, H'H/T hes castatiraly olfored the servicas of ClA

contract personnel Bodisped lo phie profecte-principally tboes ol the

so i canol to ex-iTesidest Figuerse and Foreiea Anister du orve

In promotlag the acceptabllity a AMWORLD and AMBIDDY-l by cha

moderato left. Under the faRmA of lho INHANT FrOJACI, CLA, USTONES

¡ will be ablo lo lafluenco tho

te Il la proposad that

mould tell Figuered and Crudor that ll la Intendad to aldo enroll

Cubano in rejechool and that in the opinion art

they abould be

drau (sam axllo or gasirationa thorn la bo dedicarad to damocratie

palaciples, such as Artimo's Mia, Manolo lay'O JUNE, the MAP

and NDE.

It lo unlikoly thes t'isuares and Cluber would demus. In

any cano, their demurrais could do overruled.

Tho prominenI sabilan

ol tha MRK as a cradlo ol domocratic ideas and lso actual inclusion ol

studento selector by Artimo would postulato accopiance al cha biteR and

al Artime an exponenta d a polltical philosophy accoptable lo la mode-

rato loft. Aby axcoriation al Artima for haring allled biraoli with the

Somozas mould bo blunted Il the MRR formo a part al thacôtudent body

(and concesvably the faculty) ol the

2. I Insead to susçeat to Artime lhat do pay bla respecto lo

Signores la Cambridgo, of course without alludlag to the (achool project.

The purposo of the call world, pulto (rankly, bo lo buttor up figuores.

SECRET

• 9.782:2

* 808

---

## Page 2

4-00000

SEC.ET

• za

All lhe lolormallon 1 baro been ablo lo calbar auzgosto las lue cambio

isllen al MaTas diarIa/l'igurted, no (Bs do Pisabiajion la concariad.

lo unbesable ana sher artima has lillie cholco bue lo allyn dimsol vich

thals may al loakles as calago-cos al lesor to say lip parrico lo il.

3. Asalber sagle i mould lika la explora la trestioat Botancourt.

The moro l read of his accompllehmase ao presidens, lne noro ina-

prossod lam. I. bas troald you think a having tartimo, arred arido a

lettar o introducion from Elgueros, pay Bolancourt a call telore bo

relloguisbas tho prealdency, Artime'd apyroach would sot bo thar ol a

eapplican os collastos ul dupport, bul (hat ol a yours man makisg a

pligrimago, altlini as the leas of a revolutionasy tho bas boos puccondíal.

absorbiae kronledgo al how it mas dona, lo could sas Balascour, altar

De la out (rom under the dally grind al forommnal, lo addreas blasall

to tho problomo of port-Cantro Cube. Ho could lavite ulia lo chals a

Bariass attended by tha MRR leaderobia. The objociivo rould, o courao.

ba to Intolve Bolancour la lDe alfalTa Ml the MAH, Milhous Mtting his

namo on the marlbead and wilhoul usking him to costribure abylulag bat

roflections of bia luatro so a Latla American lesder who baquoarhod blo

country a conatitutional and democratie regimo. Undoubtodly A relino

will bave lo cast oll ideolo jical ballant In ordor to accomooial tía

saluctant aponeore (i'l¿ueres,. Betancourt), bul llavene "vars blon uno

Ia0o. " No a minimum objecilva, Artimo ould ln say caso baro to

atsivo to neutraliso tho latent animoollios of the moderaro lait, desging

Manolo llay an unc ballengod ascendancy lo monopollalas dia support.

which ho can probably soe for the saking.

4. A melcome by-produce al lhe recuacibation al pRiMARI.

la "Comiato, "an tofluential portadical milh atrone soadorabis susoel

In Lalla America amass alemanla al the modoraro lalt, adites by

MonJo.! A Cierman sellonal semed UT, ITlch Harsos mho la a membor

of the social Democralle Party al COrmaNY (SYD) bas beos lecturias

la san jose an as "Idoological Inquiry into Commundaro," llo proçram,

ladirectly apondorod by era laderal Republie, Mill ba abrorded bis.

(JMHART. ¡le ooldo conoidorable inlluanco in moldine the esindilno as

Contral America'a laíl al canter loadorahip. The firar SecTadaTy al

Rha Israoll Embarry la Gualomala lis alao boon mentionad as tailoratlal

among the laselloctual alsca.

A Ivarto NIcas samod searaço P'aliasto

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

1:

SECRET

• 3.

(Procidonl ol lbe Assemblr) la Manos Acarta'o mas lo apandariag

JUMART, and la quared do sarlas ralarrad lo l'igueras do lbo putdlas

Ugbe, ararabedoulas all arboro.

Horary D. Mocheber

SAS/SO

CC: R'H/T

SAS/SO/SB

SAS/SO/AR

UC/SAS/MOB

SECRET

---

