# 104-10173-10076

## Page 1

104-10173-10076

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

14-3

"'""""

;.

Misirenr..

JHN 1IE12-

MARKER TOR MENDIN

HSLEYING, CAN SE MAGEO

BY QUAUTIN DID DESK ONLY

brief mariari of cortain raints of Interent dircussed

ising the coire c?

t10 retiris wiich sounter:

has had esth krick 1 after

the lateoro inbrictire lo dother do Marg (549 6061710332, Pier 1!A1..

I: 1111

ire

icon in contare with kANoR tc.o!9

incoration naiy.

"is material in

inge lircet relorerecto 1t

Arachnent:

0xia5y, herocith

Distrilution:

2 - Calef, is ulittachrart

•- Chio!

2 - crs, (Stocinoin):/ittacient

DEZUEN TO GIA

Bacher ound Use Only

Do fibi Faproctice

201-276430

5112

20. 370906

---

## Page 2

14-00000

22/6 75=

.:'

it. do 1l.yy.1

JUN 11:2

пос. 1'1 10. 1:1:

fish suer set the

:.ich

1.:: 1909,

this rotte:

in the ones

mll be int:ir

e sai?'

it be poppiri in rent

orn for

tirit 7?00

tron 'r,

oal clopral to rate the trip ilth fear maonle

* • 6x0.05.6.

•ir?

sisjl.le and ti:t

some sores ceili re

cal be tige stagne with hie calatties in incie

to sirated te "costtle

10.5o8:

the bedon an! finland tire wrinl layto irnin-rad, sid ther or.

40

cow Cal ach id bick through ilant; t alternatire wes thrown toot

cy-any and Polini to lost, inti

.0r001, 0l gun'n the sere 10g on arother

•lin. this trin that he evon pitired to ro:01. 11r alorù inv of smartels

-no:nes in eccessor this. estirmber cost, idtha", as he put it, "ereral indred

trehra" Kent=aid that lo could 11i? to baro Slices? decisson almit rak1n7.

→ tin as soon as nagrille, en they aureed tim ance woli conciier the idea

a live kauren his ensuer at diner inscutes riat. on tonic, the Iceh.

sentre! alto stits?,

that, should into hissio trie not materialiro, he could thor

marvili unto a saort utrit to troclaria so lig leet lock it Clarke arny infore

antonine to tho initel ititer.

lin tale Sered that he planned to gotire home

ict ascholarolin. Keho said tiat it would te a difficut tine cor him

rinancinlli, as the tuition alona for tado couri is 1909 per yeer.

ciao on l9 dare 1901: During the course of conversation, seuxte tols Kinich

that he crein at na:

i she trip. kauter

stated tint lie soul tien not ralia tho

trate bertog that it roull be too caroniva at this timo lo try to orgrico it

non- una fine mentiond al their facious tidinto käspR was still ros,

interested to mie the trin sal to res dissia one: ore batore colar lack to this

accortin" do surts. kuntal stated thr in inl has sill dill nos take t!.9

tain do tiroslaria as in altemitira.

no was a:50 tott disagnointed in the rect

thrt he hod not met irit Diest!, a friend of con ianor, the rainter, who 1s

oxinr for

sculer, cuter mily reported that kateR: and

sir girl. left copenhagen en 1 dilj iound for ju alaria ria funich and tenloe.?

so borlet Forsion Polim: Lovtell stuted that liosla had Honored all of her

rucinte at rata and Totedar

and that the lo

rially na% no legal citts in

i..d

terlin,

asoccinil! since "vssia had novai cut of the unstern sector e: tha

at loast

10g1?24,

h: 29802.

ie foels that neither tho is nan icela is

•*In the

kattle stated

tuat he war toreralla to the iea aal igori

coon ta-in to do coin thin"

constrictive,

rarelin

101279

on lu toull lore to sile dith tilera

tom.

neally.

cohrtreri.

Pitt incre

that kaneg neone !'it

Keis 1a fee leakey.

t..d

remer! that ir. t..t0

winterte in a Kirtan

r'1t

•ilir:...;

..:

---

## Page 3

01901-986818

-it:

.. 1.

..;

THe seen

-.

• n 199146,

ligans

shiris. Kart di!

ace iniater that Cornin"

jin List

felt thit tus 1a. 53: 3

1a1.400 co afflinos inci

кАрток

11'5

hit ciated 1

in thirt. railine thit the

ric donoracerant

¡eith ciorant at this

air tip cooler compred io that or is arilint dost wich bas boor •1?

fall tint onor 'irin tocene atfliont arous to

Pala its end silà driest, trach conditione oll scong tuch frear. Kirta

raim out no au: hunt: the i ach. chor tirrel i hin Roscia noi a3 an

to jat under the l talin vogi:e.

te notral the difference Lotreen out totaly add

tand co tho inarions in thao tale te ira concutriing on lairies they age

couchetating on ricersitter.

je felt tuat ord der han corin to concernsie

on tanvin time cherlarl of livin, tore ve:l: roch un to ou (the word! in a

mr crit tir, tot in this 1hina dug of, don erati, rutili tio cars in

cia rare, tur in intintiel roe heroricial w, Shier Solt that tier: tas

no incit in toúlo,i mind thet coon or later " cula d.1d tocore the cocoleally

is he vas concernol them 1s no doult trot tie

Prints intentious are acadil,

"old sunce that ho ind les:

errorit ta in that section of the jort

hearily inte; rainl,

and very Countstic lin tel"etin

macily progrecriis,

•ir section "r

Poor units and the ig aroot in

jents wich they tir cac

asinted funce also stresse

tie fact that waterer Kith 1s he is First n

We eror or socarin? finnish

an waint loarn in lich trill li was accut i

1ar3 did.

le still can stai

Tillian and saill

-taiir rani of his trilly's aticiox derisi: custors.

eraple, shale lu rices not keep a strictly losur home, be dess not, ances lis

to siceé, eat mont and nilk ejether and tic does at eat fors of any bird.

i'l friend dose, Lisa, with bion he her lired for a ian; tire and w'on 1? alers

to mere in surist or sententar, has lucore a de:,

althouch Kkiro2 lisclairsd En

influence in hor liciston, Surs' stat i that he felt that kiatuls chilin: a

environment and his relipion had a grant dial of iriluence on his present solleis

uri chilosophy.

Furthe: laments miran Stuntihas rtrensed seviral tines tie fact that it sis

Mi:icio cor dom over to gain the contilunco ef rion althou he hireir i; a

..!:

tio tripe to veri. ie

i: on class on the late roirin.

wind

---

