104-10169-10283|

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE

6 noes wi add Sina SWE eis aOR SAR RRERHRRNS une
PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

oe ~

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

WouSk SELECT CO:

FILE TITLE/NUMWER/VOLULE: __ Fkhwk, Susi Herieoal)

Vol. mQ

{METER ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF 4

INCLUSIVE DATES: . !

CUSTODIAL’ UNI T/LOCATION: FF
: + ROOM:

"DELETIONS, IF ANY: SAW/ED eEACY BocuMe 7

ies ainsi
v4 eat :

DATE ate :
RECEIVED RETUNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT AME SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OF1

7 wen Sak te asthe TS AR

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REWOVED FROM TITS FILE

areguametuenne-e72 ere


oat 8) Five NomAery
| ex a AI AL soul 201.791098 Cvee 27 4) Quy Fe 100. 197513,
@ Bune 00.doryy:

A WY 1060-42479 |
30% gency “Decumeurs:
: Aaeney “Documeurs : Bo 1060-33923

wy rafifes ke Rrewanr Gan Fearne; Fis (rd
ny ofifes RE Susan; wo cue
Ny of sles a oom
wy bfefes + 8 . ;
wy 6/tfos 86 baw Gutiun Swariec; EF 10099295, borne 100. 280i4)
ny Sfrsfer ke Leo Huacaman; rue we, (x1) 100. 8436
MY rfsfos ae SuBrEEr; Fnes Zoo
uhse afioles ae Rienarn C; wo Fite
wy sfifey  svbrecr; eomter we fie
ny sofaofey ee Renner Oo; eres “ter
| Wasn 4 foufey ec Suaseer; Fee Ao. Gu) s00. 339235
NY fprfoy +
vy afufey . fins é cf ;
wy 7 6Y «

Mt aufey a
o/sfoy pe [vas een Sunriee
. sfsfey 9 Ricwann a — Gute
NY Gacfo Cameron

Youle ee Suen ; : We bat
3/ifo¥ 7 nn ae) oe
afefey ge - Reuss C. Frees Le?
afaler 46 Sosa; ers we Gus) 100. 339235
3fofoe ow 0 Ne ee
Wifey
infer +
; dprefy ae Yuva Koon: \ MAN) We ial
Al NY piper ae Susan; Fuas sof



~ --

To calor, we
) ATTH.. CHIEF, WE/4 MO DDEIINO ELQUIEO,
m4

‘Oa QUAL

‘RQUINID- REFERENCES,
REFERENCE.. O1RW=23914, 14 APRIL 1965

WE HAVE NO STATION TRACES CONCERNINS SUBJECTS AND ARE
DEFERRING ANY EFFORTS TO CHECK OUT SUBJECTS’ ACTIVITIES EITHER
UNTEATERALLY OR THROUGH LIAISON PENOING.A DISCUSSION OF THIS CASE

DANIEL M. PRESLAND

,
DISTRIBUTION...
3 © CHIEF, WE /VIA ZRJE

pratt [owatrn sa

vars Lene
8 APRIL 196



[DISPATCH = sseis

| my _ chief, 4

:  “*"*l opmavy Reports on Susan Hetlignan Prank and Richerd Cyri) Preok
ARCA EOS

1. Forvarded under separate cover for your beckground information sre
pertinent portions of an ODENVY report duted 12 Februury 1965 (attachment a)
concerning Susan Heilignsn Freok (201-191098) and her husband, Richer’ Cyril
Prank, vbo bave been of investigative interest to ODENVY for severel years
because of their Communist activitic In recent yeors these activities heve
been on behsif of Chinese Communism, and in Jenusry 1965 an ODSNVY repre-
sentative stated to a KULANP officer that Susan Frank i suspected of being | {

@ Chinese gent. The attached information is forwarded because of |
the travel during 1964 both of Richard Frank (iz May 1968, per the |
ODEEVY. report in ettachment B) and Susan Frank (in August 1904, per
atteckzent A). . e

2... Following is a summary of information concerning the Freaks vhich
> is based on ODENVY reports... : : i
Mildred Susan Frank (knovn es Susan Frank, nee Heiligmn);
born in Mew York on-8 Rovember 1913 of Russian parentage, resides
with her second husband, Richard Cyril Frank, at 110 Christopher i}
‘ Btreet, Hew York City.. There are reports ss curly as 1942 -
: providing information on Susan Frank's activities on behalf of
Commmism, all of which refer to her Susen or Sue Warren, the
@liae she has commonly used in her Communist activities and in - f
‘the erticles she has written. In 1942 she was chairman of the H
Commmist Party 12th Ascembly District at 132 Kast 26th street, 1
t

3+ NYC. Her occupation is given as vriter and lw-turer. She has

been described having been well-trained in fur Eastern affairs
end bas taught at the Faculty School of Social Sciences and

Jefferson School of Social Sciences, conducting courses entitled, i
‘“fbe Rev China,” “The Chinese Communes," "On the Correct Handling

_@f Contradictions (MAO),” etc. In June, 1959, sho wes nominated i
to the Latin American Sub-Committee of the International Affairs i
end Peace Comission, CPUSA. a

Attachaents: ‘

. he. QDENVY report’ dated 12 Fob 65-UsC ; :
B.  ODRNVY report dated 25 May 64-UsC pol- \A04
C. | OIRW 22387, dated 20 Mar Gh-berevith " te
cromatrenner 10» 11sec, An nue are 19 APR eg
A OmRW 23914 1s April 1965 :
‘ aasuncanon vqnar mot | ‘
ou eRCRET 201-191098 :
ouiniwarina '
Lwe/afor w/att “W/4/eg ~ oR, Brockmeyer ‘fda " :
i peed ve otte ia Mn cel i
a-nt/c8 cy v/a roma oi ate cone senna
we/ofe Dave H
18 APR WO :
i fArlie 2 ll

ope vrei bested I

19 63 use rnevious carrion


CONTINUATION OF | iesreeredoeiiees? [RRS a
DISPATCH ae SECRET OTR 23914

In Dovesber 1959, she and her husband vent to Communist {
Chine, vhere ehe had been invited to vark on the "Peking Beview” |
(a wagszine published for disscainatioa outside China) for tvo tll
years. Ae of June 1941, the 7raoks vere back in lev York, having |
Feturned via the USER. In July 1962, Susan Frenk vas reported to
be e member of the Foreign Affairs Comittee, CPUBA. She conducted
® class entitled “Tne Reel China” during August 1962 at the MN. Y.
School for Marxist Studies. She and her husband (vho vas born on

22 August 1922 in Rochester, tev York) have been in contect vith
Charles Joseph (Bob) Coe and bis vito, Rose Narie Cuz, on vhos

troces vere provided in paragreph & of OIFW 22387, 20 Merch 196%
(copy attached for 7 These trecee note tat several QDZNVY
Feports have stated that the Coe's have sided vith Chine in the
UBSR-Caina dispute.

rex: ‘
Please index Susan Beiliguen Frank
for Piela.

fone “ : _
E86 BS ust envious soirion. eee


1 capimhuiesessanen|uncaesesua nina fears Se
om Gusen FRANK (201-191098),
2. As you are aware, ODENVY is interested in FRANK and her

connection with the Chinese Communists.

Distributions
2 + COB, Mew York, wa
‘ge - COB; Washington, w/a/ae

mee S m j
® fren ke
ovneinarine

Louina
7 Peery

IP po | at

ey sated Saye

: Lasopas_|
Bey,

ATMEL

Mert AIM

"tebe: ious got | wn


Seat APERTURE can WePRODUenioNs. |=

signee gt rere ere et

Secret 2715852
DOST INFO DIR CHYE #Y>O 2394 .
“de Noa as afn Pras 1sz770 1293 seu YORK Bast WELD MEETING WITH
oDeuvy To piscus! CALITY CAICS! ENTRY 18TO HTBASTE, FREDERICK
“We CLIFTON (Pd, ATCHREL"D. CHERLEDOD CPD, AND PE ER 4 wens KC
~ ePD prestat FOR XUDARK. FRASX GALLAST, JOAd AARNING," “auD ROLAND
: eERSS (emens OF THE CALUCSE Sava? PLESEAT FOR COEWVY. | CLIFTON
EXPLAINED” xymitts 4a ur 2 SAKE sutsey POSSIDIL ITY RURSING OPERATIONS
pas CHICOAS FROw WY AND THAT KYS16G Hat PREVIOUSLY.WORKED IH
1999 RECR UTES SE SCIEVIISTS METUNMING TO YAINLAND.
wyMteo HA EXPLALSED WAS INTERESTIO Foe Song TIME 1N HANDLING
LEGat, TRAVELLER AND RESIDEST OPERATIIS- FRSG.u5, AND. THAT IN :
: + 3950'S ve ND PEEN PREVENTED FROW VCRKING AGALHST CHINESE SENDERS
OF HIBASTE SECRETARIAT YH9, MADE FREGEsT TRL?S OW HONE LEAVE “yack
+10 ‘CHIRESE, WWEMLAGE, “ABRISG POINTED CUT THAT ODERVY TOO HAD
 SEEW's RESTRICTED WR PREVENTED FROW TAKING USE OF THESE PEOPLE.
‘NOUEVER, THEY TAD INTERVIEWED “OST OF THEM UITH VaRYTHG DEGREES
"OF syccess. ‘ eet
crane porored cut That ooewy's PaIMARY. EFFORTS iW cHIKESE

“Tae “FELD Wao BEEs, DIRECTED KGAL4sT. “chiantown uy, “CHINA DAILY EVs" |
nimi Rep saor RZ

“eae SS Se or a eon



Ra

ne fuente cote PS we ésset tages
AND ITS AFFILIATES. GALLANT vas cay ‘RAD any ACTIVE

: cers CASES. “HR SAID THAT TO DATE Host ACTIVE CRSE THEY HaD WAS.
2886 ak Joe (9109S \ : :
CSUSAN Tagua SHOW THEY SUSPECTED OF SE1N5 A cH SE

GALLAST ‘san OODENVY QUERIED KUBARK on eum TRIP S¥E_ MADE TO {

Souslaust Carers RECEATL Ye He SAID sus ce 5S 2

wavescur RVESENT’ AND Tiat ais otbip spent to -cucos RET at

Ll cat EXPLAINED KUSARK. EXPERIENCES WITH CHiCO™S OVERSEAS, .. =
“RIE EXPERIENCES. vy THE CE FIELD AED GAVE THEN A STERILIZED
ERSION il THE STEXIT CASE. ODERVY EXPLATEED THEY QUITE INTERESTED -

n4sstow ARRIVES. | THEY WERE ToLD WE bid veRY ‘000. SUCCESS
apap But Py LITTLE SUCCESS WITH ANY. PHYSICAL PENETRATIONS.
“eittcons OPERATED ENTIRELY DIFFERENTLY FROM SOVS OR ANY OTHER a
TNBELLIGENCE SERVICE, KYMINGHAM EXPLAINED HE TRYING 0 FIND
OSSIELE GRouPS AGAINST WHOM CHICOAS WILL TARGET THEMSELVES AFTER
rat ARRIVAL mW us. ODENVY SAID. THEY ARE DEFINITELY vormieD a
i ‘out “cHicon PROBLEM. IwASMUCH as wey: Rade 52,¢¢a TO 0, 200° i
CHINESE ty re aRea ia eeu 500,000 ba id _ obewy PRINCIPALLY



coety was rerere StED Spee D GUITE Fan ‘IW. DIS-
cussions. THEY DEFINITELY WAVE LIMITED EXPESLENCT WATINCHICONS

MOVEVER, THEY HAVE cousiDERdald-EAPERIEACE, ¥ITH i

PHINESE COMSUWITY. FANNING SPEAKS"CHINESE and THEY HAVE OTHER
Wea ot i OFFICERS WHO SPEAK CMINCSES 1 SHORT, THIS INITZAL- NEET.ING WAS:
: : ‘apraneatey SUCCESSFUL FOR BOTH SIDES. :



2DEC 1964

Birector
_ Federal Bureau of Investigation -
_ abtentions Mr. Bem J. Pepich

Parasesersieraice x Deters tn me to yor seeres of sertesbr 196, 0 .
: Re sumer (32) 100-339235, in whieh you requested thet © PRORgrePh Of: :
Ciataeed ee " attenied the useting

in August 1964, to determine =
weather subject was ancng the United States representatives at that

oa weeting. In our interim C80I-316/01578-6h, Gated 13 Cotoder 1964, he
‘ we informed you that we had forwarded the photograph to the appro- 4
yriste representative with the request that it be shown to t
Soar esyoatier siempre Tent representative bas Just reported
‘the photograph vas shown to the delegate but that the subject

Hla sat

rk ea



CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. TE L
Att 10 fut NO.
mar uD FTA. 10 anc,
ounoy (] 10.

“Tae
AMDELD___.
es

ee Peal

en

SECRET 25:i32Z

DIR INFO PARI CITE MAGA 2378
. ~ Le

QIOTA OURANA
| REP osMv-9477

on.”

sou, Om 6M = edt of vw.

<?0n -»



DISPATCH] = tere

MARKED FOR. INDEXING

10

Chief of Station, Madrid

XING REQUIRED
wo Chief of Station, Paris —— 5 TGlikoear funtondp ousx
Attention: Wallaco W. OOVERDALE Me ern flocs inoexINe =
fiom
Chief, WE 10,
Tact QUOTA /QURANA

__ODENVY Request to Show Ultimate Source of TDCS-314/02323-64
air moumd-evineicts Photograph of Po

8
the August Meeting

Bee para 2,

TDCS-314/02323-64 (PARI 6005, OFP 14190)

2. ODENVY, in a memorandum dated 24 September 1964,"
forwarded the attached photograph of Susan Heiligman Frank
with the request t it be shown, if feasible and without
disclosing ODENVY's int: t in the subject, to the source
of TDCS-314/02323-64 in ffort to determin
Frank was on
1964 mecting

vgust

2. It is requested that you show the attached photograph as
--,- to QURANA-7 as indicated above and adv: Headquarters of the
results so that we may reply to ODANVY's request.

Attachment:
Photo

Distribution:
@ = Madrid w/Att & cy B/W
B- Parise w/o Att

SCicHcl eerie &

: i ‘cee emma ano ay
L D fal bee fel 2 e ocr o~ 4a eer rhe 4)
q CLAMIFICATION: "Garis: ~
I. BgcRE®?. Seen
is = ne bait “ind Tor
i ROUTING = crm aa vee
: it nrpyan_ te C/MR/S_ w wie teas Z|
' i RID/UTS j Pall :
i RID/PS eet = mL
RID FL ie anes

lates,

L¢ Kenan |
ae | SPA CH



o

ce : Ba 5
(UNCLASSIFIED = LATERM a C7 cor SenTiaL KY secre

acter ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBIECT, (Optanaty ff

FROM:

=
cS CSCI-316/01578-64
8/8 /n/ WERE ta oa fous

8 October 1964

ee (aioe davig room number,
a eee ~ —_ bare (Mumiber och comment to thow from whom
satu oceans stem en whom
ores aL i

Oo UNCLASSIFIED

ahaa Ret anibi RS,



13 OCT 1964

“7 4 Director
: Federal Bureau of Investication
Attention: Mr. Sam J. Papici

» FROM 2: Bepaty Director for Plaas

y7 Bunsect: “svaan merLicuan yaas
ETERNAL SECURITY -

: 1. Reference is made to your menorandum of 24 September
2064, file number (NI) 100-339235, in which yo

@ photograph of mubient he shown ta tha dinates,
the meeting

August 1964 in an ergort to determine
among the United States representativ

8. We havo forwarded the photograph to the appropriate
Feprenentative with the request that it bo s.owm to
the above-described delegate to the necting without disclosing
your Bureau's interest in the subject, and you will be informed
Of the results as soca as possible.

CBCI-316/01678-64

We/5/R BEdmunds: lad

Prepared on: 8 October 1984
Based on: DBA 84546, 24 SEPT 64
Distribution: Orig & 1 - Addressea

NL + RI/AN

SEIT

