1992
104-1018 1-10178|_ 4 012022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF

"CS" RECORD MATERIAL

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YoU.

2. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO RID/ARCHIVES &

DISPOSITION SECTION, RM GE-S8, ON OR BEFORE a
“DATE INDICATED, sEEeEeeeCaaaTE EEE
———————____..

3 IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER
INDIVIDUAL PLEASE’CALL EXTENSION

00 NOT REMOVE THIS FORM

Requester:

Please return thig
; Teference to RID/ARD/RCU
; immediately after use,

4
|
—

; BNO. £6 - wAo
SPACE NO. $76.9 ¢

| FILE NO. ne - ¢- ves /3
| DOCUMENT 2/10 veces eke 2

FOLDER NO. 7 |

7 pista: Beauaanenineeereeeniete
! BOX NO, aiiiie
RID/ARD/RCU G-E-58 i a

Sa 610 ise SECRET. (1) CONFIDENTIAL [J vey =) CUNCLASSIFIED

Und


104-10181-10178

"

[ ROM:

ords sigzi fi 3
comzents resuiring presetvation.

RIO/

at

2. ba ba,

TT PRIOR TO FLING

tin Sect
flap and fo
2. Destroy fre

«2 Detach back

acts

tes

TASTRUC TIONS

unless it
taken or

Paaren rae we.

_. 10. ACTION dRANCH

YO au

Tf file no. and title shown are not
Proper, insert proper file no. below
and forward docusent to RID/AN.

Figg IN StctOm

MICRO nts
MAR LS 1903:

TOG, MGnO. SER,

7
RID/FI
ae | Verawernaceitt RE HERES FRONT SOOT
StOURST OER ice, §SO-6~ 400-5 fy
SOCONENT Bare DOCUMENT naNBER

Save weRSFTO

\i7 Man 63

MMA

TS 6108

Use Pevious
‘corttons.

SECRET

<0862


104-10181-10178

1, Attached, for addressees, are cpples of Subject recorte dated.
22 February and 26 February 1983.

2. Transultted for Task Force, as provided b y Subject, are attachnents
(1) Jamary-Pebruary 1963 issue of Informeiones de Cuba, (1) Revolucion dated

25 Fotruary 1963, and (1) Playa Ciron envelope,

Attachnentss?~* -~--
Herewlth

Pistoia !
i is tity, w/att Contact Rerorts and (ay envelopes:
1 -=C/am, vite * Hea,
oe a 3 JNOEM-Y
dof” :

zlpl


weey a

104-10181-10178 eee rel Beveence 26 Feb 63

fa, ae

fe : : | -benoruntum for the Record
: . : é :
: -- BAB Serts Cevaxts Sof :

TEE rnd T Picked |

: » On 25 Feh 63, F

i up Gr

~ + «area of_the otty rhere Peeting, was keld., mn

NOTED. Tien: 2270-2245 oe

G

i. Irina TRAFOTZ de VALDES, wife of Raniro VERDES, See Gohema-
efon in Habana is scheduled to leave for Mabuna on 1 car és,

ee 20s~QWyysI
2.8 eangeth ye V2GA Ferer, Cubun G2 in Kexico told group of
53

aul 3342 agane in the Cubena plane on 25 Feb that he hae been in Priegue

I FEB G3
on two eecasione, Act
! tof tf ae filec, Ware cory
apa: f te 5 14-9)
| ar daleniX3aRCTa Wextcan wife of 3 eae) 0 TRS, te ME
' on the rhone that pee Venu See ee wercage TOF Be for hairs

(2-9) Sortea cansta ve sare and GARCTA tora G9) that ke dtd rot
have a meseage fron snyhoey for Negdalera canctas
=

1259) at Terdssvcue point and se Brove to 8 darke)

7 .
TAIL D provided the follexing ‘nth:

4. On 25 Peb 63, (9) ona that tro valijaa left Kexico for fnbana.
leer ERs thd lightest-s ys A fidential ber tee i
reise SGh Mf Meters se ncaa oor ettantig. Prortes ty

put tro confidential rep.

Ree

sale that

30:

no gouch

in Efs prerence,

se) ff Z
(-9)c0 4 that Pilar, tna, sterardese and tro others were

|
i
. arrested and ecnt to a farm formerly ovned by BARISTA where they
will srend from 1.2 years, Tha three were charge? with contrat, one

orerations on KAVA-MINY flight. Aen reirg to the rerort, 20,000

éollare worth of dewels were found in tie baek of @ plene cect

which returneé to Havana from Mexico. Tt arpoars that tad aerate

were not taken off the srhye jp in ghexico an Planned, te
Gi

6. Gd an, atone Tana Sarre Tear iee lets

acti sesico for
Af Yabana on 25 Feb 63. MARTINEZ told Cb )pree. fe hered to be raed
igred to be rureg.

ai
fonorary Consul in Santtore ee Cubs where a Speniard is currently

co_for

eo plding the Jod. Accerdirg to MART)

NBRZ, the Syaniare is not in

the Cov''tts good graces arg he hopes to replace hin,

pore

sew beesitewnth ated one

: t > TIAL
tv omits 2a FEC ves



104-10181-1

%

0178 aaa eae
Pigtatery
‘ 7. (1s9)keo hats’ nothing ef deportanse re RUTALCO2T veeit

| from Cuban Alps. (25 Feb the following croup hne erffee on
board the Cubana plane: Antonio "ico" GARCIA, Mansel Vi uATdx

\ Perdz, LOKI fusshio AZCUE Lopcz, Eenigno C°STELLAR anehes,

Anires ARKCKA Raros urd (-2)'l The greup ves very angry beeauce of

‘+ the new stanp that the Cuban Tov't is uning at the airport. All
paseports are new being etarped by Inmicraticn offictale ac followas

! Sal lO A CURA or LLEGO DE GUTA. Thic starp te placed on the pace where:

! iii the Subjecte photo ia fouad, The group said that as soon ts the

| Ambarsador arrives he should equawk loudly to the Kexican Govt about -

: eH i ag 934089 .
f 7 8. 1 ACU Lopez, Cuban Cohsvl, wos upset becarne nov all
i
1
!

Cuban cables pane through Kew York, Ie remarked: "Les ectan dando
todo en bandeja de Plata", Dee FER 7

: cack ent
9+ On 25 February 1963, cote “Sc1o77¢40, sinter in lew of Cral Lacars
zhle® .

4 ria)
CARDEKAS cal) ed suronorrors Costa Min bendejttoy inrorort.

m

t fA SOLORZANO is the god-mt per oe me of SINOBAS' children,  SihGe.ANO

a

| Wi also reaarked. thz.
M, CARDENAS, canrot understand what is the matter with theCuban Vovt

leotigg the Enheesy "go to pot", t.c. lack of pereornel ¢rcente yr

» who is a partner of Cuauhtecce

INVighER

tay?

adecato, ARGUEDLES, according to COLORZAIO, satd the Cutan Govt

officials " no ee dan cuenta lo qve significa Kerico®, Eusebto
9
AACUE, who wan vith beer éurine hia convercation with her at

her gas ntation, defended SITC3AS rayirg "Lonetros en cu edad lo
ACL NAMES CPAnAWD

hariamos neor, es la culpa de X

1 a é:
ab to. 6-3 torte the following preaurenéa® fo0 co; fon of

va cion, two copies of Cuben Embaesy 2ullatin - # 19/20 ert Evy of
¥ 1 icc + . Fy eT ifn

a Mineral Negro a book of poetry by the Haitian, gone ie

i maceaseeeeerrerrierears '
i 31. See REX re... re (de conments on Xionm $id!

i 3

e- Aderne, Ey. <47¥
beam nai oe ‘
‘ Se Tk a


104-10181-10178

ran {
. yet tee a ‘ ‘ - ad
Lot “ Irtea ante pefring . ot 1s g Thee 25 ae poy, ; a ; o
. Vierrea a Cuba, (neg ne fos (" Atcuaet besa ochar Molina” | . mo,
. tee . . y = = ty . : .
€igo) wneeenmennmety ' *! o¢.dn Soty, ineas un . a
aes : : "Pena dir gn iNscrortabien, : .
—f 7 wo. j i Que Subssg Tile len, no Alea. i,
ar GA ORC hen y H . o ‘CO Corres ten To nue rea, . i .
J a } ! con ‘dia THR ada ge Cube eg . , .
' Shute com. : Reese tesiununes : nn .
iv ae H Forsona) Adecunds ee 3 . * acl,
. ' . : | : Sabllicag # APC CE ne 1 7 . us
: ft’ * cuenta To gue Sisnis. . aan . a on .
. ! réstepn! ; : - : .
: + yo “azcue, en Cefensa des. a sO wots . -
ny { bas. "neh otrog Sn eu edad 16 . se Fo
* . . Te mee meee ae | + hardsinog Poor, la culpa _ Qf
‘ votm * oF! del ururex, Urge Enbejadon . | . ,
. . : ooF “a
. . . te 1’ t Ne a a, ~
. ‘ ra | Cada! veg FAYOrCS trabag : , * .
. ; - ) Ofhetaten gg Cuba perme : ! ‘ .
' . 1 . lan Perigo d trabajo .c
. . 3 : “y beens Lempre ¥ cuandg : =
: ‘ Concedes las via orrespon. :
“ og ! : painted (antes era l revés, . ! i
: - i Prine Tabajo ete, lueco vo i;
' Vigna) eee aot ' .
- . . af, | ~~ Sree, ; ! =
. . Soe | 4 t .
{oc - . ce,
c } :
: ° . i - . :
: oo - ‘ aa ee
bon we ene



104-10181-10178

t : . ~,
ow = te t fe - ‘
wae oa 25 de Feb. 6. | Se habla poco de Letencourt : :
ne €ijo cue nilenneee j nolamsnte algdn comentazio ‘- : : oa ‘ ee
-  Miapihsadt eb fontigcg ae o[.  '% sim dsj ortaneda a boric del | . oe
Gets al Consul he Sot i avién estacionndo de "Cubane : - = oe"
tet ; wud scrorarsg , Comaundo ensé on el mi:no, : - ‘

, 4 : ;
£0) ee “ites cispatioy nico, ancue, Youn, Albert,

y no bien u ato. op _ Cartcllar, armena, Cran irri . ‘
“ ewww - ‘dacién colectiva, cellos que . .
y ae : ‘apone migrseién de iénice, , mY
” Aenongne Pilar y otros do: . =a e Biorec e Tite eed cote .
Eretos lisbana,anticua fineal + ...s7¢.gupyat, Tan pronto lle-ue : 7 , . .
ve Batista (hoy (anja del |” A seeder why que clevar . . mT
jucblo) concenis de uno a . una protesta ul Prenidcnte, : . / OL,
C09 Shoe contrabande 10,000] - éL-capitén ¢ la rave, filo- os , , st
dé3lare y joyas hacia Mex, eé6fico y sonrriente " slgtin- ~ : :
. we ewweeenee . » Qin ceca sellitos scrén un . “
¢ telderon 2 valijes, la , . . Gigno testinonio...etc, ete! a a .
eclpnda lleva confidencial - 8 todos muy complacicos por. . : :
Ft ee eee ne a eae ew ee a oe ‘ - ¢ lo que c4jo cl Capitén, . .
. sphnvlé Nacdntena preguntandal | Gran rableta de Ancve, a ao
por ico "que le trae -un ‘ t ahora los enbles pasan a
preesdo de Cuba" , este me . través IY. “les estdn dane: .
j lo nieca. "Ho tiene ningin | do todo en bandeja de platat et .
-recado de nadie pn Mapdie | Sc aatatetatatate stall Cd ‘ . . .
. read Hie para Hagdas | . Ey sre aon ES Cloyd Lo oO _
Cate mewnn ae ee ejer ee ; oe toe i +
‘ . : . . ; «. . .- ni at
‘ .) . ‘ :
| . "4 . . . . . oa
. af . « . .
ae : so . moet
. . . ‘ ’ ‘
~~ seems seam a ca re ee Stes


104-10181-10178

Viernes 22 de “ey,

vuelo Cub.una leeds Montea=

ico’ "todavia no lcs
renbraren nueve

gador' 4

Cunchuténoe Ciircenng a enn
porar brobatle li egad hija
fuldiao, i .

214c6 otro Biplomitice
cubano (mulato) wn trénsite

Lecaron 2 vulijan

tanbién Cras fdeo(sin hijo

y Clara Porcet__'

Jueves: en in terde
feunién de todoa para
AUPOCRITICA. no se volvié
& tocar el Anci¢ente con

hertianas de Fidel

me he ee a as

|
}

Sem sa tee ce ee 2+ eet,

gyrnuc
Enbae

a

an at eee ee tina on cobra
padre Dolerc aconpadand
al Pregigenteydaje a, Zurep-
Vereno finch vonridera
muy inpowiw.ne gor de
CUon Pre Noe; wo pedir
Pre. idense vige a Suropa.
le entre ud ine carts. al

‘ Presidente énate fijaste?

. A
US EE ee

tay é rarer a
Y berun azeue Lene nuevo.
Enbajador, Lechgna pasard
por iudxieo pur cespecirse. -

 Randre del fo no te cone
sidera intecrse a la Revolu
cién. .

Bolivia a ci
wee wee

Estabn el Agr. Cultural
de ber usU. Sento apenade
no lo caludé) gtnda yo con,
el cc Polonia | oe


104-10181-10178 toe

belles el E gar eae

i papa merimesase v
aeeeeerran oN
Neverentun for the Record : ’ :
plait 211-9) O\ ies
H 2? Feb 63, 1 wet(breantzas)ae Tendesvoie posse
i and we drove to darkened street behind xy hone, where re held ate,
| WO SECURITY PROLLESS NOTED. Sixes 2200-2700"! ag qd I fen wert +
| to ay house here. w thlked at great Rength with PARIGRS _ ve
$ (1}'e assicnamt, ‘
! ot. i  LITMNILA~9 proviéed the following informations

ot .
1. On 21 Ped 3,(2-9 attenaded the inauguxration of exposition at the
, CM Elie ol}

elles Artes, Prec See 4
ft : Eva :
HERZSTROA end rede ie Zacedaelso.UL-9 gue i
he yor Feterning to Cuba and would ne henpy $0 takesa lettonr with
: : UG 4 AOITA IL F Regie W SOR),
" for here) At 1645( L-} visitea Wo IN FOR Opti home. 55 Li Boz
o
NORA toLé(7-9) thet cke wan vary worried about OG tees with te AB

Hy recall of Soviet trooper,
said that ske told 2X42
to tell Tree, Lopez “ateor t2rt rhe rot proud of teing a

Nexiew.e nog,

foun bee

~~ €6060-02-.the-Gov'ts ANELCATING ated ts She cited the ectvivities at

the atrnert as an exanple, Ske told MAI to dell ECPSs that ara
terrera que te vedea t2 inpsge Cerocer la verdai", 22 TA NORA tla

: 6-3) thot she sav LOPEZ ! :

to her in a Sereastic xarner: 999 felicite... no cres

: (Fider}
Te enizo “p.

teos after thie arg he seid that followin:

&

Ze", no lo tuvieron 0 aac precente pasnta eri is,

mlentras Mexico sontentendolo principio "no intervencien,
DE Ls WORA data shat hor fathes

FATCe LOPUG Meseee on hia t-in te Surope, py La.

Sen, KCRENO Sanchez considers it very irpartant

Sree pent ee —

> STAR bE
yo 76-7054

(2IRy


104-10181-10178 ‘ : i ts

‘ arrandoA dh
phe Service Pvlletin - Can 63. Eason SOF A. A Seesesn occ Burtere Beenie:
1

eefor Eurcpu.

Axstassador in Lexico tory ferewell to LePEZ when

eald that eke delivered a letter to the

DS LAY

eevee

=aiave referred to

a & 2) and fe eds
mo # (1es)etbs tha
Raron SIF0BAS theslys "Ss un nino". FEBGS > :

2. (& TITANIA 2 sonta that Lusebio ALCJE, Cuben Cone, said that « pow

% And was coning to Kexico, AZCUS said thet LUCHSCA would cone to

xico but only to say queteze hedSee leaving for his post in the

a aol 336242
a

fenir Xo BIO Perc, forar lst Spe Lexica, urd

Uni ee Bationa,

3M aacez mica ae
G-2 zan, told ALCTE that he did mot believe that 6) 2 intepruted
into the Revolution, e no te conciijera integrago ais Revotueton" LEY

4, Pedro LARA sunos has been trensferred to chine (adrenty hic ticket)

Listed in tha Forvign

a DEL EGeny Fe

S$. On 22 ze 63, artontbNowesceno, Me Ae
CIT Cony

ecerfupaiia- 874 cloee friend Rev gyrived ir “evico froa Vat
cee Col . j
Geis raat to Cal "Tcdavia no noxbraron nuevo

CHE i raication thet a hex Arb rill be nazed to Mowico,

Recon Ee Dor FEAR

28 ATS we. eo. e&

£ by aut span! a At IGE safe Lig
Nee 5, A Gvban courter (negro) arr“ved on 22

1
i

arrived forthe Erb in Mexico,

7. fhe wife of ANSTET-1 arrived in Nexico on 22

+ Clara PORSET de C¥ERRERI, Guten, arrived on



104-10181-10178 . z

eee . ‘ : TEL Siicven
a BQN TBA

Miben Phead zo

2

+ se -DO3aL'e nother arrived in Yexico atovt 6 aenthe ago and did not spturn,

DOPAL arrived at the Scbaesy looking for Teteca FAYINZA tesaun a
SA and FROSUA teu

Hexican friend of hers, who war with her knows ROS:
him that Dr. DOPALwouls have ro troutre leaving Cuba at any tice. ‘
PRONEZA told him this on a previous. occutton, DOR.L ie violently ati i
Fegire, Era DOBAL, who ir very attractive, according to(ins) fa Barriot
ix)
+. to @ jai alai player by the name of GUARA. GUARA fo Spant she ! .
10." (3) phovsaea the following pavers,panphlets, books etc?
Revolucton gra Toy = dated 2? Feb 6. (dL a

Fo tenfan ras arvas que Ja aurora ~ Pablo refiaa (2 Lb)
reetan = Taller Grafico ‘Popular (Abay )

Calavernar Resur

Playa Giron ~ rape ete for study re contest = somarént (0 mC)

. Gua #9 (Ling)
Bohemia ~ 15 Fed 63 ) i : i
‘ ea 8 s 4 ;

crs


104-10181-10178

ShI-F SM cuter
SEE.

: A BUENA TEA
% Gai identified the protogreoh & », renXorrn, etben “ertend vic

gent tf Tie Eabacey on 14 Feh to try try and get WXKSEXK perntnston for
7 ORL

her father, Dr. DOPAL in Habara to ods to Kexico. aaa
a Oconee

soem -POML'e mother. arrived in Mexico about 6 mentha ago and’ navaha not return,

DORAL arrived at the Zmbassy looking for Tefeca PRIINZA Lecauc

Xexican friend of hers, who was with her knows PROESZA and TROZA toh

hia that Dr. DOBALwould have ro ‘rouble leaving Cuda at eny tire.
FRONSZA told him thie on previous. occugéan, DOBAL de violently anti- +

regire, Eles DORAL, who in very attractive, according to G9) ta marred

i
to a jai olai player by the name of CUARA. GUARA io Spantnh. fee
10. (4 we provided the following pavcrs,panphets, books ete?
Revelucion aria Hey - dated 2? Feb 63. (Bang)
No tenian mas armas aue la aurora - Pudlo iloea
Calaveras Resurrectaa - Taller Graftco ‘Popular (£4:

Playa Giron ~ maps etc for study re contest - monurént alt)

i) a |
Dg i
1 4 N PILE: (0.14) :

ad
