# 104-10096-10088

## Page 1

104-10096-100884

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

R! T

1.A/006/235-77.

MENORANDUM TOR:

Benson Crayson

SA/ANIO

FROM

denige

/. Linder

Deputy Chief, Latin America Vivision

SUBJECT:

[STORIN Report Mentioning Cuban

Minister-Counsello, Statoment on the

15: 18-nation of President Kennedy

REFERENCE

:

#Lingstong 22950 (IN 434052)

b. New York Daily News Miticle, dated

70 September 1977

02

1..

Reference:

MaRiAHod intelligence report, mentiol

that the Minister Counsellor (MC) of the cuban Embassy in

Kingston, Jamica addressed the regular monthly meeting or. •I

Communist: Party of Cuba

members assigned in lamaica on 21 r

tember 1977.

The MC said, among other things, that Cuhan il

such as PNU DIAZ LAN and others

had been incred in the

assassination of President John F. Kenned: The Al did m

Further elalmate.

2.

Latin America Division believes

that the hasis !'i

the MC statement was, probahly, an article which appearii in

the New York Daily. News on 20 September 107. This articl.

which is attached;

quoted Maritza LORENZ as ying she, mir

BOSCH, Frank stuRGIS, Pedro MAZ Lanz, two wmined Cuban " il

brothers and lee Harrey OswAlD formed an auerination. saul

which went

Hallas to assistinate Presidont

lennedy.

1: 1111:

information

110111

in Agency rites to substantiate that sio;

WARNING NOTICI

SENSAJDEE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHONS ENVOLTD

E:2 INPDET

CH, BY 012"?:

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Onty

Do Nor Reproduce

3/PV

---

## Page 2

SACRIT

There have been various articles in the past alleging

that Ms. LORENZ was a CIA agent.

There is no official file on

Ms. LORENZ, nor is there any information indicating that

was an agent or employee of this Agency.

We have asked Station Kingston to obtain more

information on the MC's statement and source, if possible.

We will prepare memoranda

for the FBI, the Inspector General,

and the Office of the Legislative Counsel concerning this case

and include any additional information obtained by our Station

in Kingston.:

The memorandum to the. OLC will be for passage to

the House Select Committee on Assassinations.

George V. Lauder

' Attachment:

a/s.

03

DDO/C/LA/COG/CIOS Speedljs (1325) (29 Sept, 77).

Distribution:

Orig &

1

-

1

Addressee

-

LA/COG/Chrono

- C/LAD

Originator

-

IG Staff (Scott Breckinridge)

Hold

03.

3/PV

1:

---

