# 104-10186-10204

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10204

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NCORMATION REPORT

MINFORMATION REPORTE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

2

4/pv

COUNTRY CUba

REPORI NO.

CSCI-316/00515-65

SUBECT Armando TORRES Mesones

(alias

"El Frances")

DATE DISTR.

8 February 1965

RETURN TO CIA

NO. PAGES

Background Use Only

REFERENCES

Do Not Reproduce

1

CSCI-316/00718-64

9 September 1964

DATE Of

INFO.

1964

MACE gHaShingiOn,. D..c.

DATE ACO. JanUary 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCEA former Cuban IS officer who servou with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by

the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Upon further questioning of source, he revealed that the full

name of Armando, subject of the above

referenced report, is Armando

TORRES Mesones,

alias "El Frances."

He is the curriculum administra-

tive officer

the Departamento Escuelas Especiales (Department of

Special Schools - EE), responsible for guerrilla warfare training,

in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI). Operations officers from the Departamento

de Liberacion Nacional (National Liberation Department -IN) of the

UGI send TORRES a statement as to what an individual agent, or

groups of agents,

is expected to do upon returniis to his native

country and TORRES arranges a training schedule which will prepare

each individual for his assignment; he decides how many hours of

instruction each trainee will have and in what subjects.

he arranges the schedules of the instructors in the various schools

and handles the overall administration for them.

TORRES does not

teach courses himself although he ranks as the

chiof instructor.

works particularly close with the Venezuelan desk officers and has

relatively less to do with other LN Department operations officers.l

Headquarters Comment

1. Aside from the information forwarded with the above referenced

report,

this Agency has no additional identifiable infornation

on TORRES.

3

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

STATE

1 01A

I ARMY

INAT

REP

CINCLANT

CINCSO

lAiR

INSA

1&'S

Notp. field distribution Indicaled by "#".)

• TOC

FBI 2

INFORMA

REPORT

INFORMATIONE

TREPORT

All SMA

WEAMADR

15-2

SIE BELLISILL

LISH REAL

IN - 2313

NO PROJECTCASMUGY I

ICSCI-316/005-15-55

RIDLAN_

COOFDINATINO:

AH/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2), CI A, AID 1

LIarson

on1.0:4a00

BLS:

SI/RE

---

