104-10172-10190| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

: SECRET "PO Not Roprag ONY

COPY (&om $5 files}

taht

SUNUECT: XIITONA Biographical Highlights

2, Anatolty Mikhaylovich GOLITZYN $ KLIWOV vas born oa
25 August ISX at Piryatin, Poltanva, Odlast, Ukrainian SSR, _ 4
of lover sisss parents, After childhood education and studies
at the Frunse Artillery School ip Qdcsst, where he wns 4
Komsoaol (CP Youth) organizer, Subject requested end was
granted trexsfer into Military Counterintelligeace.

2. The SLlowing ara Lighlights of the chronology of
Subject's professional career:

1945-1946: Student at the one year course, Military .
Counterinteizicencea Schoo), CUKR/"SMERSH,"
Moscow.
19h6-1948: Desk officer, Assistant Gpernttanal Core

Officer, sesigned to the Eastern Section
(otdelentye) of the SK (Soviet Colony -
security of Sovier officials abroad)
Department (ctiel) of the First Chlef

eoce) Direstorate of MGS
Readqwrters in Moscow. During the period
Novenber 1947 to Septenber 1948 Subject
held the title of Referent and his office
was designated the Firth (SK) Desarteeat
or the Third (Enstern) Directorate of the
KI (Committee for Informaticr), but his
functions vere unchanged.

1948-1950: Studen’ at tke tvo-year course, Higher
Intelligeaze School of the KI. Subject
atudied general subjects and the Mglish
lnaguage; he was ode of 39 students who
specielized in counterintelligence during
the second year of the course.

1950-1951: Desk officer, Orerstional Case Officer,
supervising SX activities in China,
assigned to the X Section, astern Depart-
meat, First Directorate of the Mas Head-
quarters in Moscov, the SK functions having
reverted froa the KI to. the MG3 in 19h9.

Septenter 155. At hts request Subject was transferred cs

CG TOTAL DENIAL



Moresitser 1951:

December 1951:

March 1952:

Septender 1952:

March 1953:

October 1953:

SECRET

Subje-t vas proncted to "Scrior Operational case
Officer.”

The XI wae dissolved and former state sccurity
elenents were returned to the Subsect's
functlone continued the sace, tut, in the
reorennizatica, be “ms assigned to the CI Section
of the Azerican Departcent of che Anclo-Aacrican
(First) Directorate of the First Chief Directorate
of the Mav.

Subject and a young friend wrote a Joint letter

through the Central Comittee of the CPSU to

STALIN making suzsestions for a furdsnental i

reorganization of Soviet: foreign intelligence and
werinvelligence work.

While on vacation in the Georgian SSR Subject vas
ordered to Moscow for a four hour reeting, vith hf:
friend, with STALIN, MALEKOY, and SeRIYA. ScALIil
TUKET the tvo officers for their sugsestions,
discussed intelligence matters tn detail and asked
thea to send bina letter wita specifle Prorosals
for neceosary reorganizations, tojether with the
panes of recomended chiefs. In a subsequent
letter they recormended Sergey Ivanovich OCOLTSOY,
then in prison for “political crines," and Yevgenty
Petrovich PITO/PALOY, then chief or deputy chief

of the MCB in the Uzbekistan SSX. STALIN met Subject:
and his friend a second tine. OCOLTSOY was released
from pric*a end appointed Chief of the First Chief
Directorate, vith PITOVRANOV as his deruty. A

Chief Intell! sence Directorate of the MG3 was then
formed, containing a Counterintellisence Departneat
with an Enigre desk and seven geographical

desks. Subject vas appointed by COOLTSOY aa chief
of the Anerzcun Desk, supervising approxinately

15 staff persons.

When STALL died and BERIYA took over control of the
State Security apparatus, vbich he coctined with tue
MID iove a unified M/D, he replaced QGOLTSO? vith one
of his own arrointees. Subject vas reassigned as
deruty chief of the Russian ihisre Desk of the cI
Pepartaent of the Second (new designation for foreign
Intellitcence) Chief Directorate, :f/D. Subject supervised
activities azainet enigres in Austria and Germany.

net to the MD re:
mationsl case cl.

subfect ws as.

SECRET



August 195h:

| 1955-1959:

H Septenber 1959:

April 1960:

August 1960:

15 Decenber 1961:

~ SECrET ,

Subject vas transferred to the British Sub-Group of
the Ansto-ice: ‘ench Group of the K53 residency
in Vienna. His duties vere oF @ counterintelliseace
Bature, t.e. concerned vith penetration of foreign
intelligence services.

Cne of 170 students attending the four year internal
security-counterintellizence course, the KG3 Eicher
School Juridical Institute. Ee presented and euccess-
fully cevended his theeis on the eubject of X
aczivities axong Soviet delegations and tourist groups
traveling abroad. He received his diploma in August
1959. During his school tour Subject also spent several
weeks in on-the-job tinining as a student assigued to
pertinent elenents of the KG3's Second (Internal
Counterintelligence) Chief Directorate, with access to
operational files on foreign diplomatic personnel in
Moscow who vere KGB targets.

Subject was assigned ac a Senior Operational Case
Officer reszonsibie for NATO information vithia the
Treaty Organizations Direction, Information (Reports)
Department, First (Foretyn) Chief, Directorate, XG
Headquarters, Moscow. His function vas to translate,
edit and siarize {a ‘ormtion resorts obtained by KG3
agents abroad urd to disseninate the pertinent
information to the Censrel Committee of the CPSU,
menbers of the Presidium, including KERUSHCHEV, and,
in the case of information with nilitary aspects, to
MALINOVSCIY, the Mintster of Defense. At one tine,
during a CP cell meeting, criticisa vas voiced avout
the delays in trenslation and processing and Subject
was assigned to study the situation. Thus he
examined registry logs showing the titles ot agent
information resorts, the place acquired, the date
received and the date of dissenination of the fintshed
Russian intellisence reports te the goverunent.

Subject was transferred to the Anerican Section of the
CI Departnent cf the First Chief Directorete, KG3, to
prepare for ass-gnzent to the KGD residency under
Soviet Embassy cover in Releinki, Finlend, as the CI
officer working against foreign intelligence services.

Subject was assimed to the KG3 residency in Helsinki,
under the naze KLIOY (his true name was compronised
throug the 1954 defection of Petr DERYABTH in Vien=a),
and with the cover title of Thind Secretary.

Subject, with his wife ard young cauchter defected to
the U.S. Gevernmaent which granted thea political

acylua.
- Soret ese |



i

Ib Lecember 1961: Subject and his family (his wile Svetlana Mikhaylowna
GOLITSYNA nee CHERNOVALOVA, DPOB: 1 March 1823, Salsk,
Rostov, USSR, who he married on 23 August 1953 in tue USSR,
and daughter Tatyana, born 22 June 1955) arrived "black" in
the Washington, D.C. area atter travelling from Finlant through
Sweden and Germany.

28 December 1961 Subject met Attorney General Robert KENNEDY along with
Mr. HELMS,

Early 1962-

February 1963: Subject was debriefed by CIA Officers, officials from other US
Agencies and teams of Intelligence Officers from Free World
nations. Subject provided much valuable information on the KGB,
its organization, personnel, operations, aims and efforts
against the Free World. Subject, however, proved to be a most
difficult handling problem, especially a3 a result of his
Personality a, his constant demands for regular meet
high-leve! US officials such as the President, the Attorzey-
General, she Directors of CIA and the FBI and for a policy

role in the US Intelligence Community,

16 February 1962: Subject had another meeting with the Attorney-General,
2 July 1962: Subject met again with the Attorney-General and Mr, HELMS,
9 July 1962: Subject had conversation with Mr. HELMS,

aad
22:. uigust 1962: Subject had interview with Mr. SORENSON and Mr. Edward R,
iad MURROW ”

15 November 1962: FBI source reported that KGB aware of Subject's presence in
the U.S.A. and ordered alSoviet IS personnel to report
immediately any information which they may obtain regarding
Subject,

27 November 1962: Subject met the DCI and protested treatment by the Agency.

27 November 1962: Subject was dissatisfied with his talk with the DCI and visited

the Astorney-Gencral on his own unofficially. Z
fal

HLember 1982: Subject met again with the DCL

21 February !963: Sut ject and his family left N. if C. on SS Sylwania for England,

a rnefacsen]

* Spring 1963: Subject worked w:
8 Auguat 1963: Subject returned to the U.S.A.
22 August 1963: Subject met the Attorney-General again.


23 August 1963: Subject met the DCI again,

4 September 1963: Subject met the DCI apain and stated that he wanted to become
an edvisor to the DCI and the Intelligence Community.

October 1963-
April 1964: Subject in contact with the Agency mostly in the N. Y.C. area.
Subject reasonably cooperative,

1964/1965: Subject, according to a[ official, visited the Netherlands,
June 1965: Subject interviewed by the Canadians in the N.Y.C. area,
August 1968: Subject in contact with the British regarding possible

publication of his book.

OctOber 1968: FBI source indicated that he had no current information
concerning the KGB attitude regarding Subject but the source
stated that i¢ the KGB knew Subject's location it might undertake to

a eliminate him.

July 1970: Subject in contact with Agency personnel and visited Florida.
ip : ean

ee eh
September 1970: U.S. Senate Internal Security Subcommittee interested in Subject
under name DOLNYTZIN,
2

0.

March 1972: (AEBMASH reported that he kne 7 that Subject had been
sentenced to death oy the KGB. An article regarding this
sentence appeared in the Chekist sometime after 1964.

April 1972: Subject in touch with CIA officials.
0.

September 1972: (AEJGAIN provided a copy of the 1969 KGB Alphabetical List of
Agents of Foreien Intelligence Services, Defectors, Members of
Anti-Soviet Orcanizations, Members of Punitive Units and Other
Criminals under Search Warrents. In this List the KGB listed
Subject and his wife as under the sentence of death for revealing
Soviet State secrets,

Early 1974: Subject and family living in N.Y.C. Area, he is writing and
conducting researchJlHe is presently in contact with the Agency
and also with thefFren ch] He has also visted South Africa and
worked with the/South Africansfin recent years.

