104-10163-10062)-

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

i: Action: None Required

“Forwarded herewith (RYBAT) for the following LCFLUTTER
: Sapeee with below list of IRD numbers and, if ‘available, 201
numbers with cryptonyms:

201 201_NUMBERS

)
: fog ise 1) 7
66812 = CAMISLE/3)
66812 E fo fine

i 08739 Fhaense
66617 be Fentsnaers}
: 66618 . : iu
ae L tusin0/1) >

“2, .. Identities of the above reports are forwarded as-a
parate cover attachment.

EMD OF DISPATCH

Attachzents:
A. Reports (RYBAT)
B. Identities (RYBAT)

Distrjputio: ,
- KUSODASw/att A/1-9 h/ws B/1-9 wWsle Z

-SAS w/O atts.

Ler 2svéf bai

paivtiy 20023007395 z01-| :
2899395..201-291237..... |.

THIS COPY IS HOT.
FOR RELEASE.


Fores 3 45 349901.

# 66810
1G April 1964
‘ Subject: Iden A . Bee erent
Subjeot was interviewed and tested on 16 April 1064 at a
eave sitg in the Minai arca at the requeat offitenry F,
[eenmorz Fhe taterview vas conducted in Hnglish,

Subject bas been involved with KUBANK since 1959, Pox a
perked previous to that time Subject vas cooperating wasnfonenve
Cuba. Ne is currently being used by PY as @ source of informa-
tion on the Cuban exile coasunity,

The excuse for testing Subject
was that he was being considered for. training,

actual pu:
or the interviow was to resolve issues raised TEMAVE /AUOESLO?

jch aro detailed in WAVE 2672, dated 26 -Feb: 1966.
RESULTS iti ‘
Subject ‘has worked only tor Fiera ana He has never
@eoperated in ony way with any iftellizence fe: ‘a of any other.

ry. Raver been asked: to cooperate with eny oc
eoutrolied intellizenoe service.

omnanist
does_not aake intelligence 7
Foports to any one other tian povoney” Sypjeot mo ce
lest: comunication with anyone cutsidel PEPRI He its net
‘ocal ‘with anyone whom ho cuspeets of being a Ci agent.
Be tas aever takeu part in any conmumiat activity.

pes :

Subject stated that it is widely in aueng the Cuban exile.
eoenunity that he te ia tench wit! The fact that this is
known ie partly «bat enables his ob information whieh 1s of
interest me ject states that no than four or five
Americans ow of lvenent with KUBANK.] Ameng then ie

eu Be

Subject was asked whether he ted im any way vith
inéividusle Living eutsice BPul He stated that the ealr:
individea! ta thst category @ former Cuban CTC menbver by tue of
mene of Idea C whe presently works for the Alliance for Prearese.
Iden C is mow believes te be in Heaturas,. Subject. stated shes hie.
Wile Ccumssicntes with ner fantly tp Cohe tet ‘Subject: stated. teat: i
bo te itive ake dees not discuss any of his activities im these {
cowaniontions ~ Seanezaac : : : i

Subject states that his vite is fully mmovledgeabie offhis
activities. 7 ic ] iy

Subject vas asked whether he had any acreenent to cocperate
with caper the exile ergazisations. He stated that in the Ce:nel

SUSIE GOCHENT ViLeD N_2¢/-

" Je ap ef i
YUFCAUSZY9/0/ tt aaa ‘
Laretysov/o! ay

I Se acre 201-2516 89, {

(ae ee RANE ie g

Gi pralitbet ) b

senen of the he Bo seep ax, at but that he was ideslectcally =
Cesemitted tofannt voy, 1} hepiascisporsentnetscs. Sebjest stetes. po
9650, ts om

toe



- @ 66810 *
16 April 1966
i Pago 2.
Fi shot ho has not had any contact wien oornor/i ince he was told”

sover his connection in February . , Holoes, however,
Occasionally see. MESA and BARNO. Froa his remarks’ it is.quite -

obvious. t Subject has a creat deal of affection aad respect. for
Taator/1 Subject gtated that ho bas done nothing recently to... -
iotivoly Wupport the/AsouLD] group but that would not hesitate |.

to tell anyone, if y asked, that he feltJANvOnLD[ was worthy of
all the support that the inquirer could give.

Subject stated that he also has a great deal .of respect for.
the 30th of Nevenber Hovewent, fis contact vith that croup is > . ©
Idea D, Subject has only known Iden D for about two nontbs and that -
incidentally waa the roason why Iden i's nase does not. appear on.
the list of Subject's contacts given to the Station in 1944; 5.

In @ discussion of whether or act Subject dtronsseakmmanx )
business vith auauthorized persons, Subject stated that did:
fot believe he was priyy to what might be considered alassificd © .
iaforastion bearing on' etivities. He pointed out that
his inforantion gather! ectivities necessitate a certain ancunt
of give and take vhich involves bringing information: to the
attention of certain indivicuals in order to. check their reaction
te that faforantion. Subject not made any deliberate effort
to obtain information regard: tivitios from hie contacts
q@queng the Cubam croups whe wor!

Ia the Gisoussion ef blackuail potentialities Subd; etates
that he bad once been intinate with the wife of Idea £,/ ile stated
that as fer as he kncvs Iden Eis not-avare of this, but that Iden &
ence told hin that he bad iled_ derozatory infermation regarding
Sudject ond ferwarded it to jefficials.

Subject atetod that ho tnove at least the follev ra)
by true name: Iden FP, Iden G, Icen H, ond Iden 1,

Budjoct stated that be might recall cthers 1f he heard the
Games, Subject dees net know the sane or location of the KTBARK
bese in Missi.

:
4
1
J
Euhj oot stated that he bas always ‘elt that KUBAIK
eiderea @ Cubam rather than an Amsrican. He wished
' very clear that he dees. not cons tre: elf a. Cuban. bat.
| ecertrary considers. hizcel! es Ancor’: :

1 emma oem, A en eR RS ene emmy

Subject-stated-thet be fott-that Sub Ark ves wot’ céiltsing hin

to the fallest extont ef his abilities. Ile stated that ke dusirse
veces & permanent KIBANK asect fand tint he weuld like very cusk
te be utilised, after the appropriate training, iu tho PH field, i)

ts cory

Kettn D. west)
Scone ;



ae SECRET “PFEA

~ | # 66810
16 Apes 1964.

eo: temk tharprntt. tc de -
YeenD [asso pow” az.
teen © | [eee ansiaas > na
Iden D gs Hiren oomzaies 7

Iden B [tian MORALES Py

leenr J semee woot Fas
teen 6 5 sock stewart 2
” teen Eevaré. Rent

Xeon t C avr ARs

'
’

ip.
} UPA J ISB VT ‘of ae

