# 104-10123-10217

## Page 1

104-10123-10217,

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

REQUEST FOR PERSONNÉ ACTIONS Only

Do Not reproduce

17 August 1965

SERLAL MUAABER

009784

2. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

O'CONNETL, J. Po, Jr.

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

A. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

S. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

MONTH

DAY

YEAR

REASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER TO VOUCHERED FUNDS

8

115 ÷ 65

RECULAR

V TO V

V TO CF

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE.

8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Complesed by Office o

6. FUNDS

ABLE

ersonnel.

CF TO V

OF TO O

6277-0300

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDS/OFFICE OF SECURITY

DD/ INVESLIGATIONS AND OPERATIONAL SUPPORT

OFFICE OF THE CHIKE

WASHINGION, D. C.

11. POSITION TITLE

12. POSITION NUMBER

T13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

SECURITY OfFICER

TA. CAASIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, PEC.)

IS. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

GS

1810.01

0522

10. GRADE AND STEP

26

3

SS.

17. SALARY OR RATE

$

18. REMARKS

20,245

Telephonic Concurrence, (Jay Newman), DDP/TE Personnel 13 August 1965.

Dates

1 8 AUG 1965

Security Approval has been granted

the use contemplated by this reguest

Chie, Personel felty Disaias

Icc C1. Br.

1BA. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIA

DATE SIGNED

188. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER

DATE SIGNED

Ext

Ernest Iu, Hardt, Chief/PersBr/ASTS

18 aug 65

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMMOr. 21.

OFFICE (O01MG

22. STATION

23. INTEGREE

24. HDOTES. 25. DATE OF BIRTH

26. DATE OF GRADE

CODE

NUMERIC

AUPMABETIC

CODE

CODE

CODE

но.

127.

DATE OF LEI

aa.

YR.

то.

aA.

TR.

но.

та.

-

28.

UTE EXPIRES

29. SPECIAL

30.

REFERENCE

RETIREMENT DATA

31. SEPARATION

32. CORRECTION/ CAMCELLATION DATA

но.

ra.

33. SECURITY

34. SEX

DA.

1-0

CODE

DATA CODE

TYPE

но.

DA.

ve.

3 FICA

EOD DATA

REQ. НО.

3-MOME

35. VET. PREFERENCE

36. SERV. COMP. DATT

CODE

Q МОЖ!

но.

DA

та.

1-S M7.

2-10 гт.

41.

PREVIOUS GOVERMMENT SERVICE DATA

CODE

O NO PREVIOUS SERVICE

37.L0M6. COMP. DATE

но.

Da.

re.

38.

CAREER CATEGORY

| CAR/RESV

CODE

PROY /TEMP

FEGLI/HEALTH INSURANCE

O- WAITER

MEAITH INS. COOE

1-TES

10. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

42. LEAVE CAT.

CODE

TORM ENCUTE CODE

FEDERAL TAX DATA

STATE TAX DATA

NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS

FORM EXECUTED

CODE TEAM STATE CODE

I-NO BREA IN SERVICE

2-BREAX IN SERVICE (LESS THAN I TEARS)

3 AREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN I TEARS)

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

10. 0.P. APPROVAL

DATE APPROVED

6085 1152

USE PREVIOUS EOITION

SECRET

-

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED GROM CASSATIA PONNGRADIE

1d;

1/pv

---

## Page 2

14-0000p

I RESIGN EFFECTIVE

(W ben Filled In)

EMPLOYEE NOTICE OF RESIGNATION

- FOR THE FOLLOWING REASÓN:

(Dase)

okground tap

, IDo Not Reproduca

MY LAST WORKING DAY WILL BE-

DATE SIGNED

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

FORWARD COMMUNICATIONS, INCLUDING SALARY CHECKS AND BONDS, TO THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS (Number, Sarees, Ciry, Slate, Zip Code)

Items 1 thru 7

and

Items 9 thru 18a)

INSTRUCTIONS

The initiating office should fill in each of the referenced items. Items 3 thru 7 and 9 thru

18 require information which pertains only to the action requested, and NOT to the current

status of the employee unless specific items remain unchanged.

ItemS - "Category of Employment" should show one of the following entries:

Regular

Summer

Part Time

Detail Our

emporar

Detail In

WAE

Consultant

Military

emporary-Part Tim

Item 9 - "Organizational Designations" should show all levels of organization pertinent to identify-

ing the location of the position:

Major Component (Director, Deputy Director, exc.)

Office, Major Staff, etc.

Foreign Field or U.S. Field (if perlinent)

Division or Staff (subordinate so first line)

Branch

Section

Unit

Items 11 and 1S - "Position Title" and "Occupational Series" should be the standard abbreviated fitle and

trol Register or Form 261, Staffing Complement Change Authorization, explain under Item

18- Remarks.

Item 18b - Signature should be that of the official authorized to approve for the Career Service to which

he employee belongs. If more than one Career Service is involved, the gaining Career seri

ce should approve and the other Career Service should concur in Item 18, Remarks

ROUTING- The original only of this form will be forwarded to the Office of Personnel through the appropriate

Career Service official(s). In the case of requests specified in HB 20-800-1, which require advance

approval of or notification to the Office of Security or the Office of the Comptroller, one copy only

will be sent to the Office(s) concerned.

SECRET

---

