# 104-10227-10177

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10227-10177

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNIT

EXT

DATE:

TAPE

WIT/4, PA-PROP

4935

29 SEPTEMIER 196L

10 .

SHAVE

FROM,

DIRECTOR

CONF

10

134)

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

8E CRET

POUTING

30 SEP61 16 412

-SIO-CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

52785

OUT52785

15188

15188

INFO, DEI, D/DCI, DDP, COP, ADOP/A, WM 5, S/C 2

WAYE

INTO

CITE DIR

JAZIP: ADIAN CA

REP HAVE 8164 IN 304320

1. MI HIGHER AUTHORITY ADVISED AMBUD-1 HE WOULD SIS ALLOCALSO ADMIN

2

BUDGET NEICHBORFOOD DEPAT DIHIR PER YEAR WITH CONSIDSRARLE FISXIBILITY USE.

THLE MONEY, AND JAI ALZOCATIONS OF MONEY. FOR ALL OTHER ACTIVITISS, INCLUDING

MOST PROP AND ALL CLAPUSSTIHR APS INTO CUBA, WOULD ES ON EASTS SPECIFIC

PROJECTS SWATTED COYOSE FOR APPROVAL.

3

2: ABOVE COMTTIGIFY IMPLUED EPTECTIVE INTECRATTOS NILTON INTO AMBUD

WHICH ACCORDING PRESS RELEASE Y SEPT WAS TO IS FORMALTYSD WITHHH ENEK

OR TWO. THEREFORE PAXIENT ON COMMITMENI TO AMBUD-I HAS PRIDICATED UPON

3

ZLIMIIATION ANTRON BUDGET.

5

3. FER DISCUSSIONS AMBUD-1 ERMETAL AMBUD-1 WILI, SURROT ACCOUNIINCS ALI

BYPIDITURSS TO NITIS-I.

4. IRS REACTION PARE 3 B IS THIS SHOULD PROBABLY IS SUDOGATED IN

REORCANTZATION OF FUNDING AND ADMIN PROCEDURES OF AMBUD-1. .

END OF MESSAGE

FAR CONSTER!

Coneraed Detoder funding ETU and CRO and atalezenta made to ASTIKI-I

by MURO re MIRO's recant wasting with Mr. Gooduln at the White Houge.

WE/A/Finance

Mitali

J.C. KING

•fine orce

COORDiNALINO ORDICI

5. F. DAVIS

S-FEC-R-E-T

90-18 rigotcarina are ere

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS AROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

