# 104-10256-10283

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10256-10283

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Question S

HOW MUCH MONEY IS IN IHE BUDGET FOR PAYMENI TO CONTRACT

EMPLOYEES? SOME OF THE PEOPLE WHO HAD RELATIONSHIP

TO THE CIA AND WHO WERE INVOLVED IN THE WATERGATE

BURGLARY WERE SAID TO BE CONTRACT EMPLOYEES. IS THIS

THE CASE? TO WHAT EXTENT ARE THE SAME CONTROLS

PLACED ON YOUR CONTRACT EMPLOYEES AS ARE PLACED

ON REGULAR STAFF EMPLOYEES?

duct

Proposed Reply

24

The CIA budget for 127f includes

for the

salaries and benefits of

staff employees (end-of-year ceiling)

and

employees.

or the same expenses forl

contract

24

24

With respect to the relationship to the CLA of the seven

individuals involved in the Watergate burglary, one of them at the

time of the break-in was a part-time contract employee (Martinez),

one was a former full-time contract employee (Barker), two were

retired staff employees (Hunt and McCord). The remaining

individuals (Liddy, Sturgis and Gonzalez) were never connected

with CIA in any capacity. (See attached sheet for details on these

seven individuals). These facts have baen set forth previously in

the testimony of

before_

and we believe.-

members of the.Appropriations_Committee.arefully_awaraofall

significant developments in this area

Not all contract employees have the same type of contract.

Some are subject to all the controls that are placed on regular staff

employees. Others, however, are employed for a specific purpose,

generally limited in time, for the use of their talents and/or disciplines

in meeting a particular need of the Agency, and these are not all

subject to all the controls which apply to full-time staff employees.

Both Barker and Martinez were in this latter category of contract

employees. The obligations of such contract employees are as stated

in their contracts.

1G

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Question 28

MR. DIRECTOR, WHEN YOU WERE BEFORE THE COMMITTEE LAST

YEAR WE ASKED YOU TO OUTLINE FOR US THE PARTICIPATION IN

THE WATERGATE BURGLARY AND THE SUSSEQUENI ATTEMPT

TO COVER UP WHITE HOUSE INVOLVEMENT IN THAT BURGLARY

AND YOU DID SO VERY WELL. HAS ANYTHING BEEN UNCOVERED

IN THE YEAR SINCE YOU WERE HERE IN THIS AREA. HAS ANY

FURTHER PARTICIPATION BY CIA PERSONNEL BEEN REVEALED.

Proposed Reply

A brief answer to this question is that there have been major

developments regarding allegations of CIA participation in the Watergate

burglary and the subsequent attempt to cover up White House involve-

ment. However, as the definition of Watergate has been expanded to

include other matters we have continued our rigorous attempts within

the Agency to learn everything possible about any Agency parsonnel

associations and correspondence on these developments. In line with

this the following actions have been or are being taken.

a. Senator Baker's continuing requests for record

searchs and files are being pursued.

b. Testimony of Agency personnel before the Senate

Select Committee has been completed.

c. Requests for Agency documents and files for

the Office of the Special Prosecutor are continuing to be

supplied.

d. Requests for Agency documents and filas for

the Special Counsel of the Impeachment Committee are

being honored.

Our search has not revealed the participation of any CIA.

personnel not previously identified.

---

