# 104-10219-10072

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10219-10072

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECREI

EX - 786

5 December 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

'SUBJECT: "'American Defectors to the USSR'

1o T'he attached material was part of a soft file entitled

"American Defectors to the USSR", which was act up by SR/6

(Support) around 1960 and maintained by various SR coinpozenta

until ca, 1963. The compilations vere derived from a variety

of sourcci, and contain both classified and ovcrt data.

2.

Staff.

In the fall of 1966, the files were turned over to Cl

In most instances, basic information was then abstracted

for the US Defector Macitine Program.

In all instinces in which

the material vas unique, or represented a valuable collation cífort,

Il has been incorporated into the approprinte 201 file, along with

a copy of thia memorandum.

3. It is suggestca dai any disscination of this data should

be coordinated with SB Division and with CI.Staff (CI/MRO), in

vicw of the frequently inquequate sourcing and of the fact that

disseminations have already beca made through the US Defector

Machine Program.

Intender

JLbender

rie age. 1

Orig - C1/MRO

1 - RD/FI

1 - SB/RMO

1 - CIR&A/JLBender

1 - CI/R&A/chrono

Irrat €202F-22035

10-32 ca

16/7/62

SECRET

---

## Page 2

Input to Us nicoctor

Machino Saugian

SECRET

• %)

A

27718. il

27 Hay 1932, Colinibus,

l'athenatician; criptole ist at lish. Hesided Ellensburg, lash., before noving Far treete

Intornation 15 fron Unemerican Activities C'tree report, 13.8.62, except as noted

1951-55. Enlisted ergotolorist in US liavy.

1955-56. erey civilian cryptologist in Japan, upon discharge fros lavy tour.

1956-57.

Returned to finish school at University of wash., Seattlg.

8 March 155?. Interviewed by liSA recruiter:

3 rely 1957. Beported for duty at liSh, jort Heado, Idi, as GS-? mathe-

recomoniation of an liSh super-

visor who had known has ar academ ched, peone retion ora reconsendation.

Soon after.

National agency check; polyeraph at it do

liSA security eval-

vator found nothin: deroratory, although backerrund investition had revealod

such comments as the folloring: insufferable ejotist... efféminate... not

wholly nomal

... rather Irresponsible ... ni:fit be swajed by flattery ...

forter supervisors in iry and lavy were almost unanimous in not wantin: hi

to work for ther again, but with only one excestion they sair no reason miy

Is couldn't hare access to classifled information.

NSA security ovalnator

saw nothine risky in this personality, and the results of the invostigation

were: not ¿jven to the liSA personnel office or to any other office concerned

with his hiriz.

Il Aupust 185?. Interia clearanco Eranted.

28 August 1957. liSA requested lary run full field Iriestigation.

" Septemer 1957. He took the Security Ixoctrination Cath und was given

badge frantin. hin access up through Top secret.

22 April 1955. SA received Marg!s Investigation report.

12 May 195. Full clearance granted.

1959. Re went to Lilinois University on an iSA fellowship to set an lt

in path.

FBI discovered he was associating with Communist Party merbers there,

but because fish had tahit not told than their in. dartin was loin to be in

Illinois for a mile, isi did not realize it was same man and did not report

info to NSA, He fleu back to Wesh on lhe Sprina of 59

Prior Sestezber 1959.

This would have been when they decided to defect,

according to treir statement at the loscow press conference at which they were

surfaced. However, this statement ray conflict with an ABriLLiE report that

they were under sob develoment ior sose tine before defection and defected

teasino cone eddie Gener hat oild hare led to their detections fiey

hase

jutien inta cents:;

six December 1959. Went to Cuba with. Mitchell, without ISA permission and

against its cirectives.

Undated information in

CiC report, doubtless pertaine

ins to this remai if not before, said he ras a asochist in an agnostic; out-

spoken against l's and for su, which latter. know to several dozen NSA emplovees

but not to liSA security office.

SECRET

201-282338

---

## Page 3

14-00000

" Hayes itoneridin; riel but not caller, arres; tine:

They setifred seloes is CIA. They were of couse committing a sourin

.:..

734132/7121

---

## Page 4

SECRET

June 1960. Reccived in Iron illinois.

24. Золо 1960.

1 laft suppesedly en tuo woeke leavo.

actually toon do sor lexico, cuba, and the UssRe ser us s

shoy

Yalta - het 2900 ad Am on 16913 24 otter 20 peted ane

averane when she and hor tour companions were at dinner they notleed th

br1o081y-10r10an sen at the naxt table, one of then carrying on ar

andrated conversation in sausalan with a troup of Sorlets socompanying

that. The tour leader underatood fussian and was shocked to hour tha Anerican

talling the Soviets that Conditions are better in the su than in US, Soriers

have sore preodon than toericans, ete. ihon the tour group later left tho

3200 Via Caschoslovakla (1n a feM Noths) and saw their firat testori newso

papor, they read of the Maid M defection and vero anaded to recoenize thes

as the tho san in Xalte. They had not seered to do under

"oviat escort

thore

whoever could the rapt group of "orlat llateners have been???

and

when seen lator in the evening in the hotol, they seened to be by those

salved.

They innored the US tourlato, tha also arolded them because of

the optsode in the dinine root. Inoldentally, Khrushohar vas at the tira

at his desha nasty.

5 Aurust 1960. 17.1 Dafone Departain: anncunsed that they were sissing,

aad bion traded to taxioo and buba, and nare probably bohind the burtain

surface thea.

6 Sorterber it del is end text of tatemento te say orade

ine sovieto hold a fill dress press confaranda to

MA file. tilzhiightor broke with US booeuse of disilluslorent over US

spying on allina,

deliberstoly volatine bordore with U-2, RB-L7, G-130,

olini, sta. ...

datallo on liSA and codes ... decidod ovor a Joar ago to

dafoot ... datuoted boomse 1) US Gort lates false and docoptiva statoo

santo, penetratos Bedsbea friondly enbasains, ete., 2) "In the su our nain

values and litiusta appear to be shared ly a ersater mumber of peopla"

and us will hense be better accepted sossally, and better able carry out

profession, and 3) Soriot vomen's talenta are sore encouraged and they are

nore attrretire as nates. N nauspapar account said they trinned at esch

ther when this part nas road.... "üt of I Sept 60 said "It vas only vies

-they: apolo ef thoir problens of personal adjustzent that they seezed loos

sars of thenselves", and they salled at each other when Mitchell read

porsonal rearis tras their parting statement: "Besides the disillusioment

and consern shich we have voiced over certain US policies other factore

have atrongly notivated un to go to tha SU."... Ser Gort has offered thes

choice of living area, opportunity of contiming education, and assistance

In finding nathenatios jobs at sintlar salary to that they got in US ...

they recently toured SU.

As to hon such danage they did by defecting, and hou rich they

benefited the Soriots, estlantos range fron ors extress to the other vie

'all in-botron pointo.

Rop. Motoraaek and others said that they could give

catHy so much about liSA sethods and machines and eto. that the entire systan

of codes and elint sonitarine and code-breakers and eto..would hava to be

revampedo Tho official Defense Departent account,

of course, indiested

that they were just funder code-breakers and couldn't give suay anything

allesting the security of the country.

AEDAZZLE's remarks are alrost

earthiess beesse not pinnad down, he had beird they brought som useri

SECRET

1570,127.

---

## Page 5

ISEC..

-3-

enterial with

then

"but not so important and not as tary sush".

zora for political advantage

jito propaganda?

... they didn't have side

passibilities ...

"Bur of source they did a lot of dansze ... but not so

much ... not an chornous snount.". Derjabin sald that thoy apparently didn't

have wush important Inforzation, aince they vard surfaced so soon, but thie

Has In a nevepaper report and night not have been his real opinions his

observationaiin di sado newspapor artiele(s0o Ley Grady's lSA file), Sovo

will explolt.then for about tus years and then relegato to menial jobs 11ke

translating

•o. If they keep honosexuality erasy batween thanselves they

probably won't ba bothered by authoritles, but lf they approach any iussians

they dould set l yours in jall ins vero probably pronised extra salary,

rat-free, whish they will got as long as prosont intell enlos lo in poser

but no longor ... Little slenifisance to insediato tranting of citlienahip,

sinco 1t 1s Just ons way of maldre sura they don't leave. Doryabin Inter-

Than published in Wash Dally Nors, 9 Sopt 60.

29 wrear-old

Ostober 1960. Mertin narled a/Sorlot e1rl fron southern Russia In

Degre, secording, to the lashington Poet and IT Sos 25 and 246 Juna 1960.

4 Novembar 1960, stare tologran fille as this dato, from Hoaces,

reportod that both had been son at a publie cenourt, at unish tim the

Nguswock correspondent had learned that Martin had marrled a Soviet girl

and was living in a hotel.

She nas not along. at tha, concerto M and #

left. 1n a chauffeured out. socording to AEDAZZLE, KUB KAB. tElling ORTO

of their: resottlerant.

HoveRbor 1960. Martin as orído nored to baringrad. hitchall say have

noved there too at the ams tine, sino ho vas later reported i be divin

thoro 960-21. Mail: 10: 128 in 2 duri.

39 Docember 1960.

FBIS reported a broadeast of a TASS Interview ilth

thom, rehashing the statoranta fron first intervien and rebutting tho

Us rebuttalo of their previous statemento.

In roply to question about

their Impresslors of Soviet 1150, they Catt stereotyped replies about

soriot culture, Irfendliness, ote. Hartin said ha and Iütchell vanted

to do peaceful work in mathenaties.

"gy vite is also foing to do solentifio

vork. She 18 a wonderful Sovlet girl, an excellent housekeeper, and d e

very happy with hes."

A TASS broadeRst reported the next day (20 Des)

In FBIS presented lotters of commendation Iron High NSA offiolala to

Hertin, In attempt to refute charges that M and M not In full possession

of their montal feoultias.

Decenicer 1960 ani Jonur: 961. See orce*

2L and 25 June 1962.

NIT and liashington Post reported so-called

chance encounter between artin and theodore Shabad of the KYT in a ieningrad

cafe.

liartin approached Shabad, whos he

said he recognized as. an Azericang

and talked to him:for three hours. Said he had been living in

eningrad since

November ISE0 - under the assumed nine oi Vladislav intrrovich sokolovskiy

(picked from phone book) since he

airaid iS agents Hould get his.

LiTing

confortably with 29-year-old wife

in two-roon apartment overlooking ieva in

& southeast district of the city, an rorking at Steklor cathenatics institute

SECRET

---

## Page 6

Decimter 1960.

INCOMING TELEGRAM Department of State

38

CONFIDENTIAL

Classificallon

Control: 5166

Rec'd:

January 11, 1961

9:08 a.I.

FROM: Moscow -

TO: Secretary of State

NO: 1608, January 11, 4 p.m.

American exchange student returning from Léningrad reports

Lind

Tania Cezevaka, American student at Leningrad University,

was shopping in Leningrad department store just before

ARMY

NAVY

AIR

Christmas, when she was approached by American defector

William H. Martin, likewise shopping. They had apparently

once shared Russian language course.

Martin accompanied

by "mousy" Russian. whom he introduced as his wife.

RMK

Exchanged few words, then wished merry Christmas. and

left.

He is reportedly in Mathematics Institute Leningrad:»

and Leningrad rumor places his companion Mitchell "some

where in South!'.

C 24.61 Men or the end is

Anita Potick, a F1/D,

relidale foreign THOMPSON

raigars:

some hed reported that she was fore los on excharge scroochy

see frets she in ring

it Leningra R-49, Mylinstaya Netirizanaya s/an Wife presumable lived

ries there wall him. About 600 students lied There

:asually i toa doom: 2 5018+ 2 foreguess.

Missane in code

6250A23

Forcera"".

T38032

" дороте..

---

## Page 7

I st isse

toeline and iod li?es his

ation das 3oalaord?

mit he is me thered ci

having

"asen

it

surfacin press imerlew trat in? had torrin; to do with dictsion, uhlen pade

a year or nore befare) but sight have

cinion another rethoo of arotest

intinicated by biseniover,

Ir: an, Loite, etc, statements tiat se ind idlerell

should je shot ... his impressions of sia: 1t would in like in 1000 rac com

Iron: 5a5 and outer soriet arsparamia raazines thic. vere overly rosy

complaced bors had proniced se could life anyuhere but woulon't let hia leave

venirerad, which he vanteo to do because is scutiern wire cot astina in tie

da:o climate tere ...

jors did keep salary premin?: c.500 rubies a monti:

($555), nich about egual to nis Uc salary but considerably sore than

¿oritts

got for doing sare vork ... Iot a communist and no intention ol becomine ere

occasional nail fros parents.

25 June 182. Reuters reports on this date recounted an episodo told to

their Leningrac corres sondent by

benny Coodnan,

io on tour intes. with hig

band. irevious evening whilet out streting wich Terrence Cateraan, he bad

beeti abroached by Martin - in arother so-called chance encourier.

kartin

looked in the pink and

asied 11243887788 harriedly if the; "ere laners, sa.ing

he needed one badli when Goodman tol nia wio he was, lartin said he das

sorry but dión's, like his music.

ile assed if they would contact visiting

Harvard professor (of Soriet Law) Harold Ferran and male an appointment for

his, mich they declined to do but save hia terman's hotel and

rous misber..

The

too ferters reports are contradictory as to vethor jarti, contacted ¿erran;

in ore case, "erman reportedly sald iartin did not contact his, thile in the

other ie repor'edly renised io

Sa•

Lililals at Steklov institute contirned

that i artin was employed tinere but re:sed to rive his hore acaress.

26, Jure 1962.

interried.

The Larges Post carried the gist of the tcree-hour cale

Spione mit den echenschieber

Psychelogen und Psychiator testen amorikanische Geheindienstloute.

in denen

ausgchöhlie?

Maryland, etwa 30 Kilometer van Wüshing-

wn enifeint. In den Mauern tues flealgen

tines

Verirelers

genüfted.

Splon

wenden oheren manted de sange

Gebäudes tind dort die bester Ingenicure,

Physiker und slathematiker der jungeren,

heit an,

kalle Kries sebar eine

garE

Generation vereinigt, die die arerikarische

neue fir Splone: Minner, die in gehelten

Regierung auftreiben kand.

= Zimmer am Sihreibliach mit Rochenechieber

Trotz, oller Geheimhaltund mbt eg ge

und Flektronenhird arbeitea und für inre

mise vermuiungen - sie gehen dohin, dis

alten Tago aur cine Stasisprasion

rectinen

die ñA als Laupteutsabe die Antichuage:

durier

lung

Fine hone schuin fur diesen neuen Typ

ancklung von radar

Gave ta code la schen

des Spiers lit die amerikanische National

sloglichkerten zum Abfanges ron kachrice

Security AfETCy (NiSA), die dem Verteidi-

ten zuruwiesen bekam

-

kari; elektrent-

gungeministerium

unterstebl

Ihr

Haupt-

sche Spionage zum Zlel hal

quarties liegt aud einem 400 Elektar eroßen.

Die NSA,

die unter

den Elleren Seme

strens bewachten Grundras to Fort Mead.

stern

an. emerikanischen

ständig Nachwuchs

Uniseraitaten

trußt

sucht,

strtichtet

auf die

Werbung

be

mit cem in

Bewerlung

vielfältig

schilleraden

der

Wort

Im Welllauf mit der Privat-

Batterien

von Elektrosengehirnen

nutzbringend einzusetzen und

kaum be

cannte Sprachen zu sprechen und zu schrei-

ben, werden nur die Altersversorgung, län-

reichhaltige Sozalversiche

rung und andere Vorteile des moderuen

Hauptquelle für das Wissen über die

sind wei. Ueberläufer. William FL

August 1960 in die Sowjetunic und gaben

Delatiten

Cod

bekannt, die ihneu angeblich als

e-Brecher der NSA

bekarat seworden

waren. Martin und Mitchell berichieten, die

reinigten Staaten ließen abrichtlich Flug-

reuge an den Grenzen der Sonzessnion ent-

langtliegen, die mit Milfe feine: elextroni-

sotjetischer

Ortungsstationen

und Flugzeuge aufnähmen. Ir:?ramt seien

rund um den Erdball „mehr als 2w° ameri

banische Abhärstationen in Betrieb. mit de

mittellen internen Nachrichtea inn mehr

als 40 Nationen überwacht mürden - darr

unter. auch die befreundeter Lunder: Die

trum muß seither Vethöre ta Psycho-

legen

und Psychiater und enen gründli-

---

## Page 8

14-00000

MICHELL, Semes fergusor

Deterted June 1909

427718

Martin

mitchell

SAe fOLLETIRE LEPOTEStION L8 UNCLASSITIEDI

#LUlLa: Manilton HATTIl and Derron FerguesT HITCHELI

al the Fallon), Securey igenoy, Ye, Koado, "aryland.

last laurel, reryland, where they sero tots residing

as dis deno 1y50, estersibly to drive to lla ifst Coast

to ass lh:181as11ies tian they falled to netto to

hair sons at the ami as thai vecaden porieu but

say 1980), 18 vas loamed that chay had gone to

Mandes and thenos ta luba where they had obtainad.

transportation to the 1S:1.

Da ó sostembar 1960

HARTL and kitunild, appeared before a telovined prese

preference in tha haza at tournalieta in fasson, as

Ln a costrang denoremant al tha vailed States, give

Chels reasons for leaving thalr country aint for esatang

Sortor allisonehipo too tho esa sero hirad by tha

latlenal seasilty gandy in 1957. coth had pravlouals

served in tha United stores levy tairo they had basta

frioada.

Startly bafore lie flagit soon tha Unicod

statas, Mitsitil had had three and tour Boasters sath

Diring thase Basslons linolies ro

arredy d1souaned his "dosissering" father, hta

esth and vonor.

NATTIS LES LOTA tA iDLESbus, DePrElA

ee 87 Fay 1931 Mo parents nos reside at illerstangt

Visstangtes, MITCHElL use born in San Prenaleco,

Callfornia on 11 Karah 1829, and his partara ass

resáide at cerates, Callfarala.

201-287338

---

## Page 9

THE NEW YORR TIMES, EL MAY, JUNE 21

DRFECTOR ADJUSTS

TO LIFE IN RUSSIA

But Ex-U. S. Aide Concede:

Partial Disillusionment

By THEODORE SHABAD

Прося 10 Тін Дта У СПА Тіка.

LEVINGRAD.

June

22-A

United Slates dilertor from the

Exi: bighly secret Natonal Security!

Agency in Washington has be i

disillusioned

with

Espiarts ol Bovler life since his!

anival two years ago.

Speaking

0f h213

accidental

impressions

retreaty

in

eringrad calt. Willian H. Mar.

sald, however,

that

he

coratortably end was will.

Ins to make the best of his new

astuation.

sald ho had married

Russian girl and ras continuingl

DEFTITION A PROTEST:

etudios toward a lugher degree

t7 psathematica.

. Jie has 2ssumed

the name Bakoloraly

aid

soviet citizen.

ratistictan)

spoke clungly after he had ap

States cipher systems and with,

this

corre. undent breter and analyzing foreiga

whom he had Mromiling-as an

serge collis.

american tiis 'ehe

is the mitting in the case

baza unknown outside the !

d353)

said his disilusionment;

Union

since

ne and

the

Suvie? Uals:

Bernon F. Mitchell, apir

largely from

the fae

C158

ad come without know.

1960,

maIt

about what he

cailse

toetr

ance from the l'niled Stiles.

Al a nette conti

голое,

which

Coin

and had no

intention

of

as urganized by

artment of the suiet Foreign

press de-ljoining

ise party. liis

ol

that

had lett

te Yated States

they

ence

sited

practices,

States

he said

cause

they

had opposed

certain

He

nied that his impr

inteligence

melbods, particular-of Lise

Suviet Union

had

ly: the

use

песопла

flights

over

gos

mainly

from the

Aithough

the

Unton

defection

crament's

Englisa

lang

LIe, USSR.

Like all

hortly

after

the

2.2

se chais he sea doze

#'Francis Gary Powers had i

to paint the

situsion

doined by the Russians during in lhe Soviet Union ta some

such

night

Martin

and what rosy terms.

Stitchell declared their decision

his studies 10r cas

und had nothing to do with the the erritalent of a

FORerS missiOn.

lun mus be had discoiered the

The two. men ket worked there were special trading room

trice years in the National salle fortre

miry

approres tiringt

Deferise

wilk

the securtsy. of Uaitedirset

climate. jollned lo ideauty, ls a quiet

said his request badimathematician

Unised Slates

Hoi been refused.

ponding member of the Aces

Itcalled that after the foscow

forse, suthorities had keplemy,

Marun bald

sevis conference former Prest-itheir promise of prosiding ap-!

as proximsiery the

sald that

"Ebor" thei stales, sart's added

sillchell should in hond and he waa getting about 300 rubles'grad

He sald friend also was living in Lante

ald was in good health!

born-rimmed

Martin

naid Mr.

who also has become ai

'Suriet citizen, had not changed

tertal lie in the Soviet Union.

He sald he and his wite.

nom galled weighter the last to;

name.

Soviet authorities are supply.

tie met

and married in lovem-, years

relaxed and ing slartin with Uniled giales;

Der, 1060, at the klack serenike wilh a wry sense of newspapers main te

Gagra,

had weir own humor.

requested and with

com

apartment

oserlook;

He commented that in dis'conventences such as an ame-

the

Neva River in a south.

el Cornmunist

doctrine can trund of mustard, to which

eastern

district of

complained that the Rus-in

Marxism that he

sad'portanc

sians

had refused lo let

him difficury understanding.

Martin seld he was recelving

change

hls

place of residence.

МалІД

called

said

he

was sowjoccasional mall from his par-i

that at the

news working

ca his dissertation, a'ents,

Mr.

und Mis, John

conferenco ho had salil authori

problera

in the field of

statia. Startin

of Ellensburg,

W'est.

lad assured him he could lica.

at the Institute of Mathe-ithrugh Post Office Box 101 kri

ake

TriasTAver

matics of the

Sostet Acedemy! Moscun's central post office. He

itho

Amenty, he asla, ha hat ap-o. Scherres.

Do cala ta satienclined lo riva, lis asarcas 10

pind sor a change si senisence! paresa

aral

examinations: Leningrad

Calon.

201-282338

---

## Page 10

14-00000

2ZZZ

R137

27718

NIGHTLEAD MARTIN

LENINGRAD,

RUSSIA, JUNE 25-CREUTERS)-A VISITING HARVARD

PARTESS A RENTER CON IN DATES TO USTAN IN

1960 WITH BERNON MITCHELL, ANOTHER EMPLOYE OF THE SUPER-

SECRET NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.

THE DENTAL CAME FROM DR. MAROLD BERMAN, HARVARD PROFESSOR

SOVIET LAY, WHO SAID KE MAD NOT BEEN CONTACTED BY THE BLOND,

BESPECIACLED KARTIN.

VISITING JAZZRAM BENNY GOODHAW TOLD A REUTERS CORRESPONDERT

LAST MIGHT THAT HE AND U.S. CULTURAL ATTACHE TERRENCE F.

CATKERRAN RET MARTIN BY CHANCE ON A LENINGRAD STREET LAST

WEDNESDAY•

GOODHAR, HERE ON A SOVIET CONCERT TOUR, SAID MARTIN CAME

UP TO HIM AND CATHERMAN AND ASKED HOW HE COULD GET IN TOUCH

VIT MARTIN "TOLD HE HE HEEDED A LAVYER BADLY, " GOODMAN REPORTED.

MARTIN DID NOT SAY WHY.

CATHERMAN SAID HF. AND GOODMAN WHO CAVE MIS FINAL CONCERT

KERE LAST NIGHT, ADVISED MARTIN--KNOWN AS

"THE HOTTEST

DEFECPOR AROUND HERE®--TO CONTACT BERMAN AT MIS MOTEL.

GOODMAN ADDED,

"I TOLD THE FAN (MARTIN) WHO I WAS

HE REPLIEDS •CERE I AM SORRY, BUT I JUST

AND

LIKE YOUR NUSIC.

DON'T HAPPEN TO

KAKTIK, OHO

THE

MANE

SOROL VOTES TOLD A CONTESTONEN LAST HERE UNDER

WAS

"DISILLUSIONED" WITH SONE

ASPECTS OF SOVIET LIFE.

OFFICIALS AT THE MATHEMATICS INSTITUTE CONFIRMED

TODAY THAT

HERT IN VORKED TRERE. BUT THEY REFUSED TO GIVE HIS NOME

ADDRESS.

EUP. 3800P

201-282338

.."!

---

## Page 11

14-00000

MARTIN (CHEDULED)

29-(RFUTERS) - -THE CA..

AMERICAN DEFECTOR TODA, MAD

TAKEN AN ODD TURA--INVULVING A

FAMOUS LAZZ CLARINETTISE, A HARVARD PROFESSOP AND THE

DEFECTOR'S REPORTED REMANY THAT HE GEFOD A LANTER BADLY."

THE DEFECTOR IS VILLIAM MARTIN,

THE BLOND, PESPECTACLED,

CIPHER EXFERT TO MENY TO RUSSIA

IN 1950 WITH BERNON

MITCKELL, A FELLOW EMPLOYE OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL SECURITY

MARTIN NOW LIVES IN LENINGRAD AHD IS SAID TO HAVE DECLARED KE

BEER "DISILLUSIONED" ABOUT SORE ASPECTS OF SOVIET LITE.

THE BAZZMAN IS BENNY GOODMAN, WHO WITH MIS BAND HOUND UP A

HIGHLY SUCCESSFUL AFPEARANCE IN LENINGRAD LAST NIGHT.

AND THE MARVARD UNIVERSITY EDUCATOR IS DR. HAROLD BERFAN,

A PROFESSOR OF SOVIET STUDIES CURRENTLY STAYING AT A LENINGRAD

27718

GOODRAN TOLD A REUTERS CORRESPONDENT LAST EIGHT THAT HE AND

U.SO CULTURAL ATTACHE TERRENCE F. CATHERMAN MET FARTIN BY CHANCE

ON A LEWINGRAD STREET WEDNESDAY.

THE JAZZMAH SAID HE WAS WALKING WITH CATHERMAN WHEN MARTIN

CARE UP TO HIM AND ASKED HOW HE COULD GET IN TOUCH WITH PROF.

BERFADODHAN ADDED THAT MARTIN "TOLD ME HE NEEDED A LAVYER BADLY.-

THERE VAS NO IMPEDIATE EXPLANATION OF THIS REPORTED

CATHERMAN SAID HE AND THE BANDLEADER HAD ADVISED MARTIN-

DESCRIBED BY THE U.S. OFFICIAL AS THE HOTTEST DEFECTOR GOING

AROUND HERE°--TO URITE A NOTE TO PROF. BERMAN AT HIS MOTEL.

LAST WIGHT BERMAN DECLINED TO SAY VHETHER HE HAD BEEN IN TOUCH

VITH KARTIN.

CADRES

227Z

FIRST ADD LENINGRAD MARTIN X A EARLIE

BOODRAN AND CATHERMAN ALSO SAID THAT WHEN THEY HET MARTIN IN

STREET THEY HAD HOT REALIZED IT WAS MARTIN AT THE TIME.

THE EANDLEADER ADDED "I TOLD THE HAN WHO I MAS AND ME REPLIES,

"GEE, I ME SORRY,

BUT I JUST DON'T KAPPEN TO LIKE YOUR MUSIC.'

TESTERDAY IT

WAS REPORTED THAT BARTIN WAS LIVING IN

LENINGRAD UNDER AN ASSUMED NAME, "SOXOLOVSKY."

MARTIN HAD TALKED OF HIS LIFE SINCE HIS DEFECTION TO AN

AHERICAR CORRESPONDENT (EDS: THEODORE SHABAD, NEWSYORK TIMES>

IMIS WEEK DURING AN ACCIDENTAL MEETING IN A LENINGRAD CAFE.

MARTIN SAID HE HAS LIVING "COMFORTABLY' AND HAD BECOME A

SOVIET CITIZEN AND THE HUSBAND OF A SOVIET GIRL.

MARTIN REPORTED ME WAS WORKING AT A LEADING MATHEMATICS

INSTITUTE.

HE SAID FRANXLY THAT HE HAD BEEN DISILLUSIONED" ABOUT

SOME ASPECTS OF SOVIET LIFE.

HE COMPLAINED THAT SOVIET OFFICIALS HAD REFUSED TO LET HIN

KOVE TO MOSCOW ALTHOUGH HE HAD BEEN ASSURED HE COULD LIVE

WHERE HE WANTED.

BUT, MARTIN ADDED, THE RUSSIANS HAD KEPT THEIR PROMISE TO. 205

MA A SALARY APPROXIMATELY EQUAL TO HIS OLD AMERICAN ONE AND HE

VAS EARRING SOME 300 RUBLES (ABOUT SS60. AT THE OFFICIAL,

PXCHANGE RATE> PER FONTH.

MARTIN ADDED THAT MITCHELL VAS "IN GOOD HEALTH AND SPIRITS" AND

¡ALSO HAD BECOME A SOVIET CITIZEN.

MARTIN SAID HE (MARTIN) HAD CHANGED HIS NAME PARTLY BECAUSE

PE FEARED BEING "TRACED BY UNITED STATES AGENTS."

JEJK

4835A

108: 201-282.338

---

## Page 12

QДЭP

F16

FART IN

BY JOHN HILLER

FOSCOW, JUNE 24-(REUTERS) VILLIAM MARTIN, TRE AMERICAN CIPHER

EXPERT WHO

DEFECTED TO THE SOVIET UNION IN 1950, IS LIVING

"COMFORTABLY" IN LENINGRAD UNDER AN ASSUMED NAME.

MARTIN TALKED OF HIS LIFE SINCE HIS DEFECTION TO AN

AMERICAN

CURRESPONDENT CEDS: "THEORDORE SHABAD OF THE NEW YORK TIMES) THIS

WEEK DURING AN ACCIDENT IL MEETING IN A LENINGRAD CAFE.

PARTIN, WHO DEFECTED WITH BERMON MITCHELL, A FELLOW

EMPLOYE OF

THE U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY,

SAID KE MAS

LIVING "COMFORTABLY" AND VORKING AT A LEADING MATHEMATICS

INSTITUTE.

THE BLOND, BESPECTACLED, SI-YEAR-OLD STATISTICIAN FROM

ELLENSBURG, VASH. SAID HE HAD BECOME A SOVIET CITIZEN AND

MARRIED A SOVIET GIRL.

HE HAD CHANGED KIS NAME TO "SOXOLOVSKY" PARTLY BECAUSE

HE FEARED HE WOULD BE "TRACED BY UNITED STATES AGENIS."

HE TOLD THE AMFRYCAN CORRESPONDENT THAT FORMER PRESIDENT

MARRY TRUMAN KAD BEEN QUOTED AS SAYING THAT HE AND MITCHELL

SHOULD BE SHOT.

(MOHE> EUP

lobbed

R18

FIRST ADD MOSCOW MARTIN XXX SHOT.

MARTIN FRANKLY SAID HE HAD BEEN "DISTLLUSIONED" ABOUT SOME

ASPECTS OF SOVIET LIFE.

HE SAID HIS KHOWLEDGE OF THE SOVIET UNICH HAD BEEN BASED OW

READING SOVIET ENGLISH-LANGUAGE MAGAZINES WHICH, HE SAID,

WERE LIKE ALL PROPAGANDA JOURNALS AND WERE APT TO PAINT A

SITUATION IN SOMEWHAT ROSY TERRS.

HE SPECIFICALLY COMPLAINED THAT SOVIET AUTHORITIES HAD REFUSED

TO LET MIM MOVE TO MOSCOY ALTHOUGN HE HAD BEEN ASSURED HE COULD LIVE VHERE

HE CHOSE TO.

BUT THE

RUSSIANS HAD KEPT THEIR PROMISE TO PAY HIM A SALARY

ABOUT EQUAL TO THAT HE RECEIVED IN THE UNITED STATES, ME SAID -

AND HE WAS EARHING ABOUT 500 RUBLES CABOUT $S6O AT THE

OFFICIAL EXCHANGE RATES A MONTH.

XE SAID MIICHELL WAS "IN GOOD KEALTH AND SPIRITS" AND HAD

ALSO BECOME A SOVIET CITIZEN.

THE THO MEN APPEARED AT A SENSATIONAL PRESS CONFERENCE HERE IN

SEPTERBER, 156G. AMONG THEIR ALLEGATIONS OF U.S.

INTELLIGENCE METHODS WAS THAT THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

SPIED ON ITS ALLIES AS WELL AS COMMUNIST COUNTRIES.

EVP 1800P

---

## Page 13

14-00000

R73

URBERT

LEAD MARTIE (CHANGING ..

PLINES

SUNE 24- (REUTERS) - BANDLEADEN

BENNY BOODHAR

LEMONGRAT TONIGHT

REPORTED THAT AFRICAN DEFECTOR MILLIAM

FARTIN "TOLE AS HE YESCED A LAYYED DADLY."

THE AMERICAN RUSICIAN, WHO WOUND UP AN APPEARANCE VITA HIS

BAND HERE THIS EVENING, TOLD A CORRESPONDENT THAT MARTIN, MOU

LIVING IN LEWINGRAD, ALSO ASKED HEY WE COULD GET IN

TOUCH WITH DR. MAROLD BERMAN, HARVARD UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR OF

SOVIET STUDIES CURRENTLY STAYINO AT A LENINGRAD MOTEL.

(MORE)

... . .

6850P

R8O

FIRST ADD LEMINGRAD LEAD MARTIN XXX HOTEL.

BERMAN TONIGHT DECLINED TO SAY WHETHIR HE HAD REEN IN

TOUCH WITH MARTIN, THE AMERICAN CIPKER CLERY WHO STIRRED UP

HEADLIMES AROUND THE WORLD IN 19GO WHEN HE DEFECTED TO THE SOVIET

UNION ALONA WITH BERNON (CORRECT) MITCHFLL, A FELLOW

EMPLOYEE OF THE U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.

U.S• CULTURAL ATTACHE TERRENCE F. CATHERMAN, WITH

BOODHAN WHEN ME HET MARTIN BY CHANCE ON A LENINGRAD STREET

WEDNESDAY, SAID

HE. AND THE BAHDLEADER MAD ADVISED THE DEFECTOR

TO VRITE A HOTE TO PROF. BERRAN AT HIS NOTEL.

(NORE) 6:5TP

4: 1-4286 +7219.

R81

SECOND ADD LEWINGRAD LEAD MARTIN XXX HOTEL.

CATHERHAN DESCRIBED MARTIN AS "THE HOTTEST DEFECTOR

ADING AROUND KERE."

COODKAR AND CATHERMAN SAID THAT WHEN THEY MET FARTIN

IN THE STHEET THEY HAD NOT HALIZED IT WAS MARTIN AT THE TINE.

GOODRAN TOLD A CORRESPONDERT HE WAS WALKING VITH CATHERHAN

ON WEDNESDAY MORNING WHEN A MAN CAME UP TO HIM AND ASKED

HOW HE COULD GET IN TOUCH WITH THE HARVARD PROFESSOR. "HE

TOLD NE ME WEEDED A LADYER BADLY," GOODEAN ADDED.

GOODRAN SAID THAT "I TOLD THE MAN WHO I WAS AND HE REPLIED,

•GEE, I AR SORRY, BUT 1 JUST DON'T HAPPEN TO LINE

YOUR MUSIC."

(HORE)

9801P

R32

THIRD ADD LEMINGRAD LEAD MARTIN X X X MUSIC.""

GOODRAN AND THE AMERICAN OFFICIAL TALKED TO A REUTERS CORRESPONDENT

TONIGHT AFTER IT WAS REPORTED DURING THE DAY THAT MARTIN YAS

LIVING IN LERINGRAD UNDER AN ASSUMED NAME.

BARTIN TALKED OF HIS LIFE SINCE HIS DEFECTION TO AN AMERICAN

OURRESFONDERT CEDS: THEODORE SHABAD OF THE NEW YORK

TIMES) TRIS WEEX DURING AN ACCIDENTAL HEETING IN A LENINGRAD

CAFE.

FARTIN SAID ME VAS LIVING "CONFORTABLY" AND WORKING AT

A LEADING MATHERATICS INSTITUTE.

•BUT ME ALSO WAS SAID TO HAVE EXPRESSED DISILLUSIONMENT

ABOUT. SORE ASPECTS OF SOVIET LIFE.

THE BLOND, BESPECTACLED X X.X PICKING UP FOURTH PARA

ORIGINAL (R16).

GENC

• T809P

---

## Page 14

14-00000

PETT

!??'

U.S. Defector

Weds 'Ideal'

In Russia

TIRZ38TS

MOSCOW, Dec. 19-William

Mertin, the runaway American

code expert who said he pre

ferred

Sortet

women,

clased loday he has married

oreshe is a wonderful Soviet

girl, arbexcellent housekeeper.

and

am

very happy with

her," he said.

Martin, 29, and fellow defea

for Bernon Mitchell, 31, gave

an interview with Tass news

agency which was splashed In

the

government

newspaper,

The two former employes ofl

the N'alional Security Agency:

repented

the

ecclisations

againsti

United States they

made

at & slossow piess conterence

in September.

Waitin and Altchell disap.

peared from the United States

In June shortly after an Amer-

fren U.2 reconnaissance plane

wus shot down over Russia.

Martin said he and Mitchell

planned in do "peaceful" work

in mathematics and "my wile

is siso going to do scientiãci

work"

The two men left a state. ti/zade osh.

ment in the United States say.

of

he reasons sor 26 Me 19660

thelr defection sas that "the

talents of women

are encour

aged and utilized to a much

RIESTer

extent in the Soviet

Union" and this made Sovier

women

"more

desirable

88

males."

Defector Martin

Wed to Russian

MOSCOW, DEE.

19

(AP) -i

A Urited Scales National Se-

curity Agency code expert

who

ned to the

Soret Unlon last

fummer has marled a Russian

toman.

The oficial dent agency Tass

earrled an interview mith

Wil-

ham H. Martin, who came

20500T

with another

agency

code clers,

Bernon F. Mitchell

Tass sald blartin disclosed

he

bad married "e wonderful so.

met girl and excellent, house

keeper."

The

Tass

intervlew.

Iquoted Martin

also!

as

saying the

United States will canuinue lo.

calty out cubrersive aculvities"

in other nations under. Prest-

dent-elect Kennedy because

"Allen Dulles was retained as

director of the Central Intelli-.

gence Abency"

by

Mr.

Ken-

nedy, Toss said Mitchell agreed

with Martin.

11 Dic. 196.1

ExT.

A*

27718

3.,

201-282338

---

