# 104-10301-10002

## Page 1

1104-10301-10002.

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

CIA

Internal Use Only

Access Controlled by DDP

HISTORICAL STAFF

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

THE CLANDESTINE SERVICE HISTORICAL SERIES

CS HP

334

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS

SOVIET RUSSIA DIVISION

1946-1965

by

frederiok waltere 03

August 1972

David # Blee

David H. Blee

Chief, SB Division

Copy

copy

VOLUME I

No. 1: SB

NO.

2: 0/DDP

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

available to SR/CI/Research on that particular sub-

Some of these studies were sterilized sub-.

ject.

sequently for passage to a wider list of recipients

than the sensitivity of the original production

permitted.

Some studies were translated and given

to foreign liaison services.* Many of these studies

were the result of suggestions for research topics

from other SR Division offices, CIA-wide components,

and organizations outside the CIA.

Throughout the period of this history, SR/-

Reports, in coordination with Chief,SR/CI, had re-

sponsibility for the dissemination of timely general

CI reports on the RIS. The area division concerned

disseminated CI reports on the RIS which were clearly

of only local significance.

J.

Warren Commission Studies

The President's Commission on the Assassina-

tion of President Kennedy, also known as the Warren

Commission, through its General Counsel, Mr. J. Lee

Rankin, frequently called upon the CIA for information

* Attachment C lists the more important studies

disseminated by SR/CI/Research and its predecessor

organizations.

INS

- 71 -

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

in 1964. SR/CI/Research Branch responded to many

of these requests for information working through

CI Staff which assumed managerial control for CIA

communications with the comnission.

The branch

furnished information to the commission on a wide

variety of topics concerning the RIS, Lee Harvey

Oswald, and Oswald's associates in the USSr.*

In a meeting between CIA representatives and

MessIs. Allen Dulles and Rankin of the Warren Com-

mission on 14 January 1964, Rankin asked that CIA

draft questions to be included in a letter to the

Soviet Government concerning the Oswald case. The

questions were to be "not too technical," should

be sent soon, and were to be phrased in generalities

in order to allow the Soviets more flexibility than

would a longer, more pointed letter based on con-

crete US Government findings. These questions con-

stituted the first direct involvement of Wigren and

his Research Branch in the commission's work.

The commission wished to account in detail

for all of Oswald's activities outside the United

*

See Attachment D.

- 72 -

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

States. Bagley, Chief, SR/CI, subsequently di-

rected Wigren to begin a chronological tabulation

of Oswald's activities in the USSR as collated

from various sources. The commission made avail-

able to Wigren documents and reports already ac-

quired from other US Government investigative

agencies. The commission agreed in principle to

honor CIA sensitivity classifications to documents

originated in the Agency for use of the commission.

The Agency's role was limited to written communica-

10/

tions to the commission.

By 21 January 1964 Wigren and his colleages

had prepared and transmitted the questions to the

commission for relay to the Soviet Government.

Soviet defector Petr Deryabin had contributed to

this endeavor. The questionnaire had four basic

parts.

The first series of questions sought to

make an assessment of Oswald's mental and physical

condition. The Soviets were requested to furnish

information on his medical treatment in the USSR

while in the hospital following his suicide at-

tempt in 1959 as well as any psychological evalua-

tions of him. The second series of questions

- 73 -

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

sought to assess Oswald's use of and dependence on

weapons. He had owned a shotgun in the USSR and

had joined a hunting organization there. The

third series of questions sought to complete Warren

Commission documentation of Oswald's background and

career in the USSR. Those items particularly

sought were his correspondence with the Soviet Gov-

ernment, Soviet Government documents issued to him

concerning his request for asylum and permission

to reside in the USSR, documents and registrations

of his residence and employment in the USSR, and

documents concerning his departure from the USSR.

The final question asked whether Oswald had a police

record in the USSR and requested information and

11/

documents if so.

A comprehensive SR/CI/Research paper on the

Oswald case went to the commission on 25 January

1964. This was a detailed chronology of Oswald's

sojourn in the USSR

together with an alphabetical

listing of persons

in the USSR whom the Oswalds

knew or mentioned. Identifying information was in-

cluded whenever available. This chronology was in

preliminary formbut the comnission urgently required

- 74-

SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

collated material to support the taking of direct

testimony. The source material for the chronology

included personal documents, interviews, and official

and private correspondence. Traces

were based on

CIA files and the Moscow and Minsk telephone direc-

.

tories. These preliminary name traces were also

sent to the commission on the same day as the chron-... -

12/

ology.

The final version of the name traces based....

on a review of the Oswald papers came to over 150

names; the results were furnished to the commission

13/

in late March 1964.

SR/CI/Research prepared for the commission at

its request a paper survey of known data on Soviet

use of assassination. This study was intended only

for background information of commission members

with the caveat that CIA as an organization did not

believe that the Kennedy assassination was a Soviet-

sponsored operation. Much of the material in the

assassination study had been published previously

within the Agency.

-

A fortuitous aspect of the SR/CI/ Research

concerning the Oswald case occurred when Mr. Alex-

ander W. Brasko of the branch discovered by accident

- 75 -

SECRET

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

a photograph of Oswald in Graphics Register in

March 1964. Brasko was seeking photographs of

buildings in Minsk, USSR, where Oswald was resettled

by the Soviet Government after 1959. Brasko found

a copy of a color transparency which showed in a

casual setting a young man who bore a remarkable

facial resemblance to Oswald and was wearing a

shirt identical in pattern and color to a shirt

Oswald was wearing in photographs found in his ef-

fects following the Kennedy assassination. (Figure 1,

page 77). The photograph was taken by an American

tourist in Minsk's Central Square in August 1961 at

the Palace of Culture. Copies of the photograph

were also furnished to the FBI. The Bureau inter-

viewed the photographer and her companions who could

contribute little to their original statements when

first interviewed by Agency representatives following

their Soviet tour in 1961 (not about Oswald, however,

whom they did not recall). A copy of this photograph

was published on page 268 of the Warren Commission's

report.

Some of the reports prepared by SR/CI/Research

were deemed suitable for publication in the Commission's

- 76 -

SECRET

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET

1188

Palace of Culture, Central Square, Minsk, USSR

(Oswald is the young man on the right)

Figure 1.

- 77 -

SECRET

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET

report in the public record, either as textual

material or as footnotes backing up. general .com-

ments. This required explicit permission from the

DDP, and the rewriting or declassification of some

material previously submitted to the commission.

In August 1964 Warren Commission Assistant Counsei

W. David Slawson requested permission to publish

in the commission report some memorandums submitted

to the commission by SR/CI/Research via CI Staff.

Since some of the material submitted to the commis-

sion earlier was intended for background use only

or contained operational information, the reports

in question were resubmitted to the commission in

sanitized versions modeled on the originals. The

revisions were identified as coming from CIA and

appeared primarily in textual and footnote material

on pages 258 to 280 of the commission's report.*

к.

National Intelligence Survey on

USSR Intelligence and Security

An important, recurring document written in

*

Report of the President!s Commission on the

As aer nation of brestdent John to Kened 196% co-

ernment Printing Oftice, Washington, DC:

- 78÷

SECRET

---

## Page 10

13-an

SECRET

Appendix C

Source References*

2.

3.

10.

11.

Memo of Conversation, 16 Jan 64; sub: CIA

Work in Support of the Warren

by Tennant H. Bagley•

Commission;

XAAZ-22407, 21 Jan 64, sub: Questions to be

submitted to the Soviet Government, filed

in 201-288248 (Lee Harvey Oswald).

* Unless otherwise indicated, all source references

may be considered classified SECRET.

- 375 -

SECRET

---

## Page 11

13-00000

1

12.

13:

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

'an

20 .

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

SECRET

XAAZ-22409, 25 Jan 64, sub: The Oswald

Chronology, filed in 201-289248.

Traces, and

Name List with Traces, 201-289248.

XAAZ-22414, 28 Feb 64; sub: Soviet Use of

Assassination and Kidnapping, 201-289248.

XAAZ-22420, 29 Apr 64, sub: Photo of OSWALD

in Minsk,

201-289248 •

- 376 -

SECRET

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SECRET

ATTACHMENT D

SR/CI/RESEARCH ITEMS

FOR WARREN COMMISSION

SECRET.

ATTACHMENT D

---

## Page 13

13-00000

A8270K

Attachment D

SR/CI/Research Items for Warren Commission

122)

2.

3.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14 .

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

22.

22.

23.

24.

25.

21 Jaso

1984

22

J0n. 1964

25

Joa. 1964

25

Jan. 19GD

rab.

196&

Fal.

1966

2984

28

28

Fad.

1964

Fabo 1968

26

Mar.

1966

ApI.

1964

21 АрГ.

24

29

Apro

АрЕ.

6

Hay

1964

1968

1964

1964

8

• Мату.

3 Ju.

1964

1954

5 Jun. 1964

22 Jul. 1964

26 Jul. 1904

31

Ju].

1964

7

20

9

10

AUZ: 1904

AUZ. 196%

50sx.1964

Sapt. 1964

Quantions to ba cubalitad to tho soulor Governaant.

@U00120001E0 f0T NarIna OSWALD.

Tho "OSWALD ChronoloRy".

Mann l1nt aith craces (proliuinary voreion).

DONTAPhLO 11{0TE2E1ON Oi MES. OSWALD CaÚ hor rAlAciUCO.

Lottor aspialnána eppendia duaignacions.

LOLICE SOgRIdIAZ OGUALD'O MeaDOn in tiO USSR.

soviar uso di escasalastion end kidnoppino.

SOVIOL DIABE LAICLICA tO tRU aLDADOÍnAtION Of PrOSIdeDE

Eannady.

MaTO Liar UiEn traCCE.

Rosponno to "Carcalo Quastiona Poncú by cha Staco

Dapartaons Ellca".

AddICIOna tO Cha CHrOnOlORy Of OS"ALD IN the USSR.

Photo oi OSVALD In Minok.

Contacto batuoca tha OSWALDa ond Soviot citizens,

13 Juno 1902 to 22 Novanbar 1963.

MATIDa OSWAED'O rotasoos.

DocImento on too karvey OSWALD furalrbad by che

SOVÎOI GOUGINTENT®

Allogasiona regarúina Intellisoaco Training $chool

in lisas, 0552

Apparona Inconsintcacias in antorial furnished tho

Contradon by CiA sud tha Deparenore of Staco.

TORacOTinA TURIBEVA:

LaTiziN Of ciDa regulEad for ObtOInIDE SOViOI TOUriGE

Vican 10 Faloloki and Stockaoln, 1906

Soviet buncias coctocico.

Konstancin Patrovich SELORIUSiY.

KC3

footrota.

KCB HandlIng of FaroLanOTa 12 tho USSX.

Saulet

---

## Page 14

13-00000

20.

27 .

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

39.

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

SECHET

10 Sept. 1964

10 Sopt.

1964

10

Sept.

1964

10

Sapt.

1964

10

Sept. 1964

11

sept.

1964

12

sept.

1966

11 Sopt.

1964

11

Sept.

1964

Acquatnsanças of tha OSWALDa In Minak.

: Financial ald for forolgnera in the USSR.

Sacror trainlos locaciona and proceduras 1n tho USSa.

Rates of compensacion in the Uss8.

Enigration and traval of sovlat nationals.

Geographic-descriptita daca oa Minak.

Certain quentiona posad by Stace Departuent f1les.

Sovlot hunting soclotlea.

Icnigth of sina required for abtaluing Sovlet Tourlet

18

18

Sapt.

296&

Viaas In Wostora Europo In 1964.

Idestification os parsona appoartus in VBI photo D 33-46.

Sapt. 1964.

•PaBSpOTE And VIBA OffICO.

18

18

Sope.

1964

Rasattlenent of Us dofoctora in the Us8s.

Sept. 1964

Intursas hocala Ia Mancon.

---

