# 104-10183-10393

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10183-10393

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nat Reproduce

3 Narch 1965

NESIORANDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: AJWHIP-1 Meeting, Yew York City, 19 February 1965

Neeting /Time/Place and Purpose: This meeting was

,held in the orfices of AlWHIP-T Irom 1350 to 1610 hours.

Purpose of the meeting was to attempt to satisfy reguirements

lexied by Nestor.Sanchez, WH/SA/SO, on events which took

place during AHIP-l's most recent sojourn in Europe (January-

February 1965) In company with AULASH-1.

Meeting was also

used

to determine AWHIP-l's willingness to participate in the

the unwitting recipient

subsequent paragraphs.

It might be noted for the record that this meeting was

scheduled for the morning of 18 February, but due

ASKHIP-1 missing the scheduled flight from Mlami, the meeting

was postponed until the above time.

Details of the Meeting

3.

The

following information on the various topics as

indicated concern basically those requirements which have

been intended for, and levied on, ASLASH-1. However, due to

the fact that AKHIP-I was together in Europe with ASLASH-l,

ANWHIP-]: was debriefed on the requirements on the outside

chance that he might have some complimentary.

Orlando Blanco, Cuban Diplomat in Bern, Switzerland.

AbIYHIp-1 was unable to give any additional information or

16 Blanco) as he had not met the man in Europe and does not remember

having met him in Havana.

(ANNHIP-I stated that AULASH-1

claimed that he (ASHIP-I) had in fact met Blanco a number

of years ago in Havana, but A WHIP says he truly does not

He stated that any additional information

on (Blanco)would havesto cone from either ANLASH-1 or ANLASH-3.

In approaching (Blanco>for cooperation, AWHIP strongly

suggested that

It would be best to usedAMLASH-3 for the

initial contact. ANNHIP stated that (BLANCO)knew ASLASH-3 well

and that he was a trusted representative (and therefore anti-

Castro of AlLASh-

ASHHIP-) waS

told we were looking into

Blanco and also into QUiOPS-1, Attache Cuban Embassy, Madrid:

об

oz

15÷2

1I VICE 1O

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-2-

Jiscussing QUHOPS' desire to cooperate, AIMHIP

that QUOPs would do what he could to help but that

in exchange for this he wanted to get his wife, two children

and his mother-in-lawto the United States along with himself.

ANNHIP-I stated that (QUHOPS'

plan in brief was to accept

the guard duty on Sunday thus making probably only himself

and the wife of code clerk present in the embassy.

thanked AJWHIP for his information and suggestions and

stated that they would be conveyed to the appropriate parties

concerned.

Gustavo GONZALES> (AMLASH-1' 06

"cousin" AWHIP-I

stated that he had no intormation on Gonzales. in whom

Sanchez has an operational interest with regard to his

(Sanchez') pending PCS to Caracas --

Venezuela.)

"Venezuelan" Returning from Moscow.

Regarding the

Venezuelan who has reportedly to have just come from Moscow

and returning to Cuba, AJWHIP-I stated that he had no

information to contribute about

He did say, however,

that one time duringhis recent trip to

the Cuban Embassy

Paris talking with CUNSNAFU-19, the Ambassador had interrupted

their conversation in order to talk to two men (about 30-35

years old).

ANWHIP-l met them briefly and was told by one

of them that they were from Oriente Province.

ASWHIP-I

stated that he could tell immediately by their accents

that they were not Cuban.

In order to confirm

this he

asked them

where in Oriente they were from because one of the

Cuban

officials in Paris was from Oriente and always wanted

to chat with any people from Oriente who passed through Paris.

After a brief stumbling exercise, groping for a name of a

cily in Oriente,

the

"Cuban" confessed that they were not

Cubans but Venezuelans.

ANWHIP did not have suffident time

to learn more about them..&The two Venezuelans spent about

thirty minutes talking with CUNSNAFU-19 while AMHIP was there.

He did not know how much longer previous to this thirty

minutes that the Venezuelans

had been in the Embassy or to whom

else they talked.

ANNHIP-l suggested that (UNSNAFU-9 might

be able to obtain the names of the two Venezuelans in question.

e. UNSNAFU-19's Membership"in

'the "Gaslight Club".

a support service for a Paris StationJoperation

OZCUNSNAFU-19 membership in the Gaslight Club where it would be

attempted to run a highly desirable

busy schedule, to get the latter down to the Gaslight Club

and enrolled as a member.

AJWHIP stated, however. that he

ould do the job just as well by taking out

gift membership

the Gaslight Club in Yew York City.

and sending UNSNAFU-19's membership card and key

We encouraged AINHIP-l to do this and to keep us

advised of his progress.

---

## Page 3

Cubin Aur Force Conandante DICLOIS.

Regarding

•DICTOIS who had alleredly arrived in Paris tros Elcer lasauring

the time shat

and aimal?- tere there.

thất he tha nột !

man or dia he tave any letorna

a Conandante with that name or a name that sounded like that

He said that he had heard something about i Comadaate

strange name

but he could not contribute more than that

-He

surested that AlliSH! might be able to identity

Securtty man

-mith che Que

asted II die had ang

in orman onion pant s

reportedly one

no acco panies

che

African irip, und probatty also the one to Chla assi

mber

AttiP sald that the name did

with him and he had no other inforaation to glye.

agatn

suggested that AMlaSh-l might be able to help: : One-thing more

ANNHIP sald was that te did not think that any of Che's security

nen were named Bernis, and he thought this vas not a correct i-

name.

He did say, however, that while he was in Parts there had

been

two security

types there who vere guarding two or three

dark green trunks about. the size of foot lockers and four or

five suitcases.

THIP said that they both had pistole one.

Soriet machine pistol and the other a 32 calibre. AWHIP does not

remember the exact date that they left Paris for Madrid but hese

remembers that the riight left at 1:50 in the afternoon ande

took place about tro weéks ago. (ca. 5 February)..

" -ANWHIP

says, that.

• (UN)S.NAFU-9 knows

both

of

these men and could be contacted. for: their

names and a better description.

b.

Carlos Franqui.

AWNHIP-I had no additional

Information on Franqui except.

to say that he knew he was not

happy.

He also belteved that AMASH-l had additional information

on Franqui.

concerning

1.

B & L Locomotives.

with regard to the requirements

security

measures on

the shipment of locomotives. ton

Cuba,

ASHHIP

said that he had no additional information to

contribute.

ANNHIP also stated&that he had obtained no adaftional

information fron FISSOLA, the engineer) concerned with the shipment,

to, and the use of. these loconotives."

ANNHIP stated that he

information.

operation.

(Comment:

See Ronis for further edification

of the subject.)

5/pg

---

## Page 4

14-00000

AMLASH-1's Accommodation Address Arrangements.

ANWHIP-1

stated that he had reviered accommodation addresses

with ANLASH-1 and had given appropriate instrúctions to

ANKHIP-2 in the event

of the receipt of letters

from

Havana signed by AMLASH-l or signed by a "Cuban" whom

ANtHIP-2 did not know: (Comment: it was a good thing we

reviewed accommodation address with ANWHIP-l, see below.)

For the record

AMLASH-1 will address his letters to. AXWHIP-i

either in care of his business address in Rome which is:

Cavaliere Hilton

Jewelry Shop

Monte Mario

Roma

or to AIWHiP-2's business address in Geneva (which incidentally

1s identical with his home address, as AßWHIP-2 operates in

Geneva from his apartment): Rue Crespin, Geneva, Switzerland.

(It should be noted

that AMWHIP-2 intends to open a proper

office in Geneva in the

near future.

However, this is no

particular reason for changing the accommodation address in

Geneva.)

AMWHIP-I stated that he had given the undersigned's

postoffice box in Washington (William A. Thompson, P.O.

Box 7224 Apex Station,

Kashington, D.C. to AMWHIP-2,

believing

that this would expedite our receipt of letters from ANLASH-1.

AwHIp-l was told that his concern

for rapid transmittal of

the letters was certainly appreciated, but that for security

sake, it was much better

that they be

forwarded in a cover

envelope

to. AWHIP's address in lew York City, -preforably,

his business address.

was also told to remind

ANWHIP-2 that he'should handle the letters he received from

Havana as little as

possible and put them in cover envelopes

and send them as quickly as possible to AlWHIP-l in New York

City.

In this connection it remains the problem of obtaining

these letters on a expeditious basis when ANWHIP-l is, for

example, out of town for a prolonged

suggested that William Thompson's accommodation business

In Washington be

given to ANNHIP's father so that he may

forward AJWHIP-2's letters to Washington without undue delay.

(This is

an excellert example of a breakdown in compartmentation

in Cuban

operations.)

Parts Embassy Personnel. According to a telephone

call on 18 February

that AMLASH-1 had

fa mauri and perhaps starde

would. be out of jobs

the near future in accordance with

the present economy drive by the Cubans.

AMLASH stated that

SCUSS NAFU-8 most certainly would be ousted, while UNSNAFU-9's

was more uncertain.

Richaracudiade:

---

## Page 5

added scou

cited in

ret

ECH

se ti

ed

vere apparently very:

anxto

Actually AwHip→

stated

that

of

the payrents

would be

50:090.

serage stamps yaflv

butt ton,

and this Ancluded antique

and "workedy

he had

been asked.

be

HIR 22E a 10 00 word of sliver on.

cast to: be prac

is di custon dad been parable int

reputable internat

iza fastes anchez a

her-in-law of Celta

Iglesias

riend of ALNHIP-)

jeweter is

talked

tonthé

*LET

Embassyrepariesettle

5100,000 was a part of

Athe

mentloned above

AwkiP-a turned down-the-sp

he did not

as iver, and was not su

resol

value of the vorked Itens:

oftered for sale. " Awhip lista

that this sale was to be executed on behalf of castro

personally and did not necessarily reilect thé overall"

financial picture of the Cuban government.

ASWHiP-1 stated

that AMLASH-I had told him that such an action vas typical

of Castro,

who in many Instances, conducted business

arrangements of his

own, without

regard or without consultation,

with the members of his goyernment normally>involved in Cuban

national tinances::

ANWHIP-, stated that U

NAFUI9 also had N

intimated the above.

LAWHIP? Stated that he belleved that

this money was needed for the downpayment on two factories

which had been purchased by the Cubans in

Great Britaln.

He also stated

that he believed these factories

were for

the processing of agricultural products of some

type.

Also,

concerning the silver,

according to AskHIP-l,

that 30% had

been reduced to bullion and that the rest consisted of

"worked"

silver articles (antiques, art treasures, jewelry, eter

ANWHIP stated that this entire offering of

silver antiques,

'etC..

had eventually been sold

on the spot in Havana for cash: to

an unknown person.of Turkish/Italian background.: AWHIP

tried to find out the Identity of the person but neither

OZ In In person, nor Iglesias, by phone, would t

reveal the

ANWHIP-l offered to urite

or

as showing undue interest in the matter. AMtHIP-I was

told

that if he ever saw Iglestas

in. person and could safely ask

bim he should do so

together with any details he. could

as it was related to Cuban

obtain about the transaction seated tha tea as return to

financial problems.

3/p0

---

## Page 6

the

at tras

trunk had been

was turned.

Parts.

fron Aut

Made

nas: Cu

It was. So

Heaty

dowi.

ANNHIP specul

ated tha

drid

by Arnold RODRiGUEZ Camps

Mortard she Jaltera te

BOS

call

GeneraTon the : 1841

ANLASH-1 declined

due to his desfre

tura to.

Havana via Maurld on

he cord of this month do the

Repel recelve no cair Money

÷ 01

stating at UVARU Lo yas drivias to geneva on the iot

had with him comes ourse saves Brucess

10-2co

the items, sald that the stulf was ches

interlor

vorknanship and quality)

ANLASH Morale and Finances. Te then broached the

tople of AllASH Batukudeland present frame of mind a ter pur

refusal to kive

S10.00d- That he requested for jape

uses.

Aimhip-i stated that he thought ALASK-I was.

not overly

disturbed by this; but:

that

In general he was somewhat upset by

the fact that he had even entered into negotiations with AMBIDDY-1,

objecting to his "political mentality".

It might be noted, that

ANKHIP-1 also stated his reservations about ASBIDDY-1:

From

this,

we derived the feeling that AMLASH-l and ANt'HIP-l both.:

had strong but unspecified reservations about the motivation

and

morality

of AMBIDDY-1, AMLASH Bald that due to this reservation

Of AlLASH-?'&, and due to the relative newness of the contactre

ALASH-I was extremely reluctant to take any money from AMBIDDY-1

which, of course, in the end he did not.

ANNHIP-I stated that

AHLASH felt that he had been pushed by the Americans

into a

basically unwanted relationship with AMBIDDY-1.

ANWHIP-1 stated

that he, as well

aS AMLASH-l were still baffled at the American

reluctance to deal

across: the board on all natters with

AHLASH-1. He stated that AlLASH-l had recelved certain Items:

AH P-T nade a bone to ot do that Atasa noted mediately

and pointedly that the items provided to him by ABIDDY-l were

not homemade nor apparently one-of-kind items. (the inference hero

being quite clearly conveyed to the undersigned was that these

items

obviously came

from connercial sources.)

The Subject of the Funds Requested by AMLASH. AMWHIP

stated that these were absolutely necessary for AMLASIT to keep

people

of his cholce.:in particular jobs where they could be o

are to could be i

---

## Page 7

об

ASHIP Cited

tO AMLASH-1: for abulous. reásons.)

AssHIp-l stated that thia

subsidy money peruitted these people to remain fn place by

providing an addition to their incomes, who otheraise due to

the high cost of living

undersigned

BORS

rodat. la thuana, would be compelled

went elsewhere.

The

asked

not AMLASH 1

got any

fat he needed.

sald,

*Yes;

'I gave it to

ca trtm hou wuch and:

tie

After a 11t

ide

ated that he had g

stated that AlLASHl-ld

that :

,00O

have the moneyeyet

a probably this eekend

ANWHIP-1 stated that

ANNHIP-2 had become Involved in the transaction because the

had to appeal to him for help in raising the money in a fairly

confidential manner.

Arrangements to give AULASH-I money

during his stay in Madrid, had fallen through, ANNHIP had:

learned, this the reason: for ASWHIP-2's being forced to go

to Paris in order to give it to him this weekend.

ANWHIP-1

also stated that AMLASH-l had asked Jose Iglestas in Havana

for some 3,000 pesos.

Iglesias was not able to raise the sum

at the time requested.

Whether or not he is attempting to do

so now, or has succeeded in doing so during AMLASH-l's absence,

is not

known at this time.

It should be noted that during.otg

discussions concerning the ANBIDDY/AMLASH relatIonShIp, ANWHIP

stated that ANBIDDY had told AlLASHl of at least some portión of

his connections with the Americans. AMHIP-l stated that he had

sat in on

the discussions during which time. AMBIDDY purportedly

made this statement.

AWWHIP also stated,

as he had done fa

previous meetings,

that neither he or AlLASIl could understand

way the Anericans did not nake further use of ANLASH-3 and

AJILASH-2.

He also fölt that there were many bits and pleces..

of the whole picture that vere not tied into a neat bundlé and

utilized to their full extent by the Americans.

The undersigned

at no time admitted that he ras aware of any AUBIDDY/American

relationship as alluded to by ANWHIP-1.

о.

For. the record, ANNHIP-I again stressed the fact that:?

he felt that he could produce more

Information and better serve

KUBIRK Interests if he had a case officer who knew all aspects

of the AMLASH complex and the cast of other Cuban characters in

officer (R. Oven) (and

presumably other European-based case officers Swith whom he

has dealt) was very helpful and that he enjoyed their relationship

but that there was an obvious lack of depth of knowledge of all

aspects of an AlLASH-AWHIP operation and also of those principally

---

## Page 8

Be innie to is

Involving only ANNHIP.

with

continuous

He Xelt that he could be more effective

suidanco and direction during his European

also liplied that the case officers vere

understandably busy

eith thetr many local problens and could

not devote as must

time as passibly was. destrable to AllHiP-t's

Qà thờ bite

hind Antip-t delicately subuitted that

if he was witllig

to take the time for the operations, and dfa

fact they were

portiutile and necessary, se should nake

evers reasonable effortito blean the most benefit fronhis."

Lo summary.

11 tensible, he prefers to deal vith one

case officer on all

aspects of his operational activityad

ASLASH-1.

Accordion to AsHlialyche and AJLASH-1 have

established.au

open code for sighalling his desire for extileration

or to inforn Altip-l' wheu the date of his Attempt will be me

a rat indicate extra on prouday es ors raore e

respectively.

AMBIDDY-l presumably has the details for execution

once he is informed of the keyword by AlAHIP-1.

The Attempt 1s

to be noted by any mention of the name SINON, together with a date,

which is IT.

02

p.

Deception Ploy (Rumór plant with UESNAFU-19).

• In response to

the request for his

opinion on this subject

after

it had been outlined as agreed upon at Headquarters,#

AMWHIP-1 stated

that he thought that he could carry this off

oZwithout (UNSNAFU-19 being suspicious.

He stated that this type

of information would have 'to come forth at the right moment in

a natural manner, and during a rather lengthy personal meeting.

He felt that

to do this by. telephone or letter would be totally

out

of

keeping; with his normal relationship with GASSAFU-19

and that

it should not be done in that manner.

On response. to

the suggestion,

however, he said that it could be done if his fi

stopping

off in

Paris to see (UNSNAFU-19 took place as a part of

a normal business trip to Europe.

L He also stated that he felt ?

he had to have something upen which to peg the story:

ÄNWHIP-]

agreed with the feasibillty of the suggestion of putting him In

touch with a reputable businessman in New York, who has good

connections

in

Government circles in Washington and whom be

conceivably could have known for

some time as a result of as

normal business relationship.

AMWHIP-I agreed to returnsto

Europe in two or three weeks especially to perform this task.

He was

in agreement with the undersigned's idea that zin order.

to play it as safely as possible, this meeting with ASSÑAFU-i9.

should not take place at least until after the 24th of February,

the expected return date of ANLASH-I to Havana. Both. for this

---

## Page 9

14-00000

-9o

reason and for AltHip-s own

ousiness matters, de will program

his return to Europe for sometime during the first or secono

weeks of March 1965.

ASWHIP-I was told that arrangements would be

made for him to know about, or actually to meet, the ostensible

source of this information in New York sometime during the last

week of February or the first week of March. He was told also

to keep

In touch with the undersigned in the event of any

news received from Europe concerning AMLASH-l or any of the

cast of characters in this nemorandun.

4.

The meeting terninated at 1610 hours and there were

no incidences of a security nature to be reported.

WH/C/FI/TC

---

