"/104-10219-10138) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

Die 40967, 25 May 196) ,
SULT uzT6, 31 way 196) +
SLBY 0.61, 12 June 196) . . eee He

1. The attached mezorandam provides information guthered by
Hollingsworth dering two conversations with Kiss Mary L. FINAN oa 18 end ©
19 June 1961 at tho Lituni mission ne. r Lilongwe, Hyaseland.

2. Scbjoct was cooperative end appeared to be forthright fo yrovtitag” t
Saformation om her very liaited acquaiatence with cen A of bof, ue
soemd fmrressed that cha bed been sosyht oo

thousand wiles from hore, snd alldiy cooretned, Ahough not cagal,

: S. Sabject ould che bad first tonrd of Ides A's flight tp e tetser =
from her mother last August. Her wottor hed also written that abe b-3 bees
approached officially fo Zeskiagton in coanectiog with Subject's krvvieg -
Toon A. Sabjoct said she hed written her eother with al) the deteils cia
coald reacshor but did not knox whethar they hed in fact bees peared aieege

- 4. Riocrapicol data © Sobjeat said that Mostingter, D.C. hod alicrey
been ter home, She way torn thare tn 935 and user t9 sehood thers,
St. Aatbory's, Sho them attended Cothsilc Doiversity whare she cae)

her courses fa the nursing schoo! im June 1953. Pollowing ber gradustice,

Ste worked at the Providence Hospite’ io Yashiagton extil Jase 1959 whee ede
tock & sazser job as a oarse at Cam: Aetrescoygia wear Lewisten, Rainy.”
Stertisg in october 1959, she worker st Children's Borpital fo Beetirgions
About tho end of 1959 she daciéed e7%; would Hike to exter alastom work abris®
wed begen taking evening coutses ai ts Wownn Volentesrs Aszccietion, La-sase
Residence, 16th Street, N. #, (Tee ddrons of the oryanisctias ban :
Garing the past year.) In midwJ9S0 she zolled ea the &
to Venice end thea on the Africa to Poirs, Kozsmbique, acd ey
Rystelaod, bir cowpanion on the trip aad present kousexale is ap:
Cathotle aurso cased Lonise COPFdaN {roe Custerlasd, k.rylesd. Sz
never travelled vatside the U. S$. praviously efth tha exsepticz of a same “'t,
yett to Comeda, She now plass to'reeain at the aission im Kyaselan¢ extil

er te ge eee ae

woe. BHO OOE TORS 5

1. Beport oo Kies Tinas* Raovlesge -
, of phy ae o wopice)

4. Hhea Flaea's lottar fi eopy) 086

Dian



e..LTLUrUCCO .

 epgbogyre Se. Pte Aloe 33

Subject: diss nary L. FiNaS’s Acquaintance «ith Iden A of Did ste i
(Ail Idens keyed to same kel.) . j

i 1, Subject wrote the following concerning ter acquaintance with Iden Az

"TE have been asked byEOLLINGSM ATI] to recount any coutact I have
had with {iden a/. 1 am perfectly will to do this, ay only
Tegret being that ay sole contact vith the ean is vagse fn all
respects.

“As 1 recell, in the fall of 195%, I was invited by {16-9 BJ to attend

a small informal pagty. 1 accepted the invitation anc was called

for ot sy hogy by (Iden B/ and her escort, {lien C7, we weat $0

the howe of Ziden U/ 19 the vow block of Taylor St., W. E. [Ides D7 cee
and another person, @ youth of stout cu years ahose cage I donst

Teromber, weat to the party with us, We traveled in Zicen D's) car.

"Enroute to {iden A's] hose, we were Involy-d in @ winor accident oo
21St., S. e. between South Dakota and iote Island No one
was Sojured, and aftet_the details of the accident were straightened
out, we proceeded to {iden A's/ hoe, near Laurel, Maryland,

“Laside the aforementioned people, another guest, ® genilemen, was
at the party: however, I do not recall his name. 1 believe there
were no other guests.

“During the course of the evening, drinks were served, general con=
versation was cade = 1 don't recall any perticutar topics discussed =
we danced to records, Yooked at slides, and listened to tte piano and =

Played by senters of tha group. ff

“After the usual courtesies of thanking the host for an esjoyable
evening and expressing the hope of seeing him again sozetine, the
Guests departed. we errived hore without further incidest.

"1 was contected at least once, an¢ perhaps twice, after this party

for another such gathering, but 1 was not able to Join tte group agai.
I believe it was Iden g/. ede extended the later invitation, I think
the last cootact that was made was mot Jater then January 1960,

“I should like to state agein that I regret not being sble to recall
with more certainty the incidents relating to this aseting. However,
at tho time, it was an incidental social event and of coarse I hed
Bo idea of the importance this meeting would have in the futare.”

Gigneg?
Mary L, Finas

senate +


‘
§

en a ee cee

ane

Pt

4c] RYBAT a
secket ce
: Page & ae

a. Sabject says that this was the oaly occasion that she was with
Ten a. If Iden A were at gatherings at Idea D's at the sace tige she
was, the Coes aot recall it. Sze did not attend a wrestiing matck

TWA wlth Iden A and to the best of her knowledge has sever been to 8
wrestling match.

the

3. Sabject met icea B threegh her neice who was in Subject’s class ot
fursing scdcol at Cettolie University. She subsequently saw Iden B from tine
to tioe bat exhibites virtaally oo knowledge of Iden C; she did not know his
last sam, did not recejnize it wien it was meationed id not kaow what

be did for @ living, Farther, ste did not tie him together ia her thinking
with Iden D mtom she didimow,

4. Sabdject does sot recall tte new of IdenD's friend who was tee
fifth individual who weet in their car to the gathering at Iden A‘
does she know what bis tie was to Idea D.

* 5, To the best of Subject’s recollection, the group of five she

travelled sith were at iten A's from about 9 p.m. until about midnight,

AS she writes, they ¢erced, watched slides (of the U. S. dest) and listened

to the piaso aad violic - Iden & playing the formor and Iden D tho latter, .
She dors cot recall sey specific coaversetion wor any coenents wade by

Iden A. Ste bas no leetions sr impressions regarding hin, his ideas,

bis cotiveticas, his iczology, bis conduct. In fact, Idee A wade such @

slight icpression on rer that she did,not recognize his pic in the clipping
formerded by her mother and berely recollected the evening in question.

net

6. Althoagh she is uncertain whether it was Iden A or Iden C who sede
vequently invited her to another gathering, she believes that Iden A did so
0B at Lrest one occasics. (She said this varies with her earlier recollection,

aay sho wrote in her tettor to her broidehesdd that it was Idea C who hed done
50.

1, Sabject believes there were only seven people at Idea A's. She +
Teteebyrs virtually po ¢etails conceraing the seventh person, the moa who
id sot cove with her ap. She estimates that he wes about thirty and

free comments made durizz the slices thet be and Iden A bed been acqssiated
whes both were out Jest.

. RYBAT

SsaecreT

a)

