oct 10061- ea 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PROM

SUBJECT Eee

TENCE : Letter for
: of HSCA,

1. In response to the
contain information on five
follows:

1928 in Waynoka,
born 18 May 1926
from 1952 to 194

b. David E
concerning primarily

rphy
the establishment, maintenance

as) 10-4H Zsca)

24 MAR 1978

-IEMORANDUM FOR:  "IDO/ESS/TP/ETS

Group
aff

rittec on Assassinations

OLC fr Chief Counsel/Director
dtd 8 Mar 78

request in Reference, CCS files
of the 19 individuals listed, as

- Brown - Four documents contain

12, wife of George Stanley Brown,

argo, Oklahoma, an Agency employee .

- Approximately 100 documents

and use of cover for Subject during his Agency career -
as a Staff Employee from April 1948 to July 1975.

c. Grayson ‘Gra
documents: concerni
and use of coy
from Fepruat
in 1971,
address.

d.
cerning
pHattisbu

“ston) Lynch - Approximately 60

establishment, waintena
ibject during his Agency

1961 to September 1971. Upon retirement
ve Tampa, Florida, as his forwarding

yoximately 50 documents con-
born 21 June 1913 i faa
n Agency Staff Employee from

SEROET


=F srenet

_LGCS. files
Robert T.
‘California, wh

September

e. Bill Lo
cerning Willia:
Illinois, an Agen
January 1972.
establishment, saint
during his Agency c

2. CCS files contain no information on the remaining
individuals listed in Reference request.

eu
js ML. Latta ~ (
SM. L. Latta!

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
7 ae

- RC-4271
cians af
CCS/PRG «

1
1
1
1
od RC- 16402
1
1
1
1

SEGHET

cuments con-
1942 in Chicago,
loyee from October 1967
cuments. concern prinarily the
nce and use of cover
r. Upon resignation in 1972,
Subject left no forwarding address.
