# 104-10406-10176

## Page 1

AnnA

1704-10406-10176

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

.:!':8,0.0.

ANTI GUARE, CALP.

R==r9d.950100, 105.

Mir. come

HAPMO.CAMICK.HAH

(252; 2291526.

Salec: Committee on Essassinations

Mo. House ci Representandee

333: 0UEZ CFFICE BUILDING, i. NIX.=

"'ASHINGTEN, D.C. 205:3

20r1l 5. 1978

Mr. Patrick Carpentier

Office of the Legislative Counsal

Central Incelligence agency

Washington, D. C.

7714155

DeaI li. Carpertier:

In connection with iis investigation into the cirsun-

stances surrounding

the death of President Kernedy,

ins Selece

Committee on Assassinations requests

files ana

file references pertaining to the following inciviauays:

1) Edward Jay Eastein

2)

-=.

Harvin Kanto

3) Charlotte Bustos

1) Annie Goodpasture.

In addition, please provide the Committes mitr cosess to

the following information:

5)

any andlall investigative reports prevarea by E.

oward hunt pertaining to the vonn

Kennedy

ass25-

sination.

These reports were not necessarily pra-

pared during the period of Mi. Hunt's amployment

with the CIA).

6>

The file that was prepared by the Cir in reference

to

E. Howard Hunt's alleged Fatergate-re used activities.

The Committee

previously requested access to all CIA files

pertaining to E. Howara

Hunt in its letter to you of January 6,

Hoiever, Roger Gabrielson, of your staff, has requested

the particular requests identified above, be out ir writing.

The Committee wouid also appreciate a Iesporse from the

CIA regarding the folloing matters:

086.63

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Patrick Carpa-tier

April 5, 1978

Page 2

7)

Lie CIA's written staterent replying to she Committea's

reguest of February 21,

1979 for

crateration cs the

"criteria that governed the opening ca

a 201 zile due-

the years

1950-54 ras not rasponsia

our inquiry

the CIA's Mitten statement die rot

relevant time perios.

equest on February

Accordingly,

Ecous on the

I in tenering

Tri-the srant tart theza

mere no criteria governing the openia:

¿sinsuch files

üring that period, the Committee mould eppreciate

statement indicating that this was the cass

8?

CEA docunent #563-810 indicates thatenste are 37 docu-

document also

Furthermore,

indicates that there should be a machine

listing of these documents attached as part of document

#563-810, but n0 such listing appears

Select Committee on Assassinations ag-asts

CIA provide a listing of such documents as fall as a

written explaration of where those docurants are 10-

cated

why they do not appear in osvalá's 201 sila.

Pursuant to my latter of decerber 27,

1977, I would lie

to note that the document referred to in this paragraph

is a classified document.

9)

"ter having reviewed both the documentancontained in

the dia's files on Priscilla johnsor

ilar

and the

materials that were Independently made

the Privacy Act, it is apparent trut

ins files

which were made

arailabie to the conningee ala not in-

clude HILINGUAL materials.

As the Connietas has

already requested all

information contacred in your

files

on the individuals wo

the

sunjects of ous

requests, please review the files that wou

have pie-

viously made available to us

for the

Ea2ose di ensli-

ing that all of the information pertaindrie

the

individuais involved has, in fast, beer rovides

A vino

1o Finally, the conletea would like to dreameral gessons

case Officers in the

sovint russian sivisior of

the CIA's Tokyo Station' for the period

1963 throron February

as well as the Chief (s)

of Station and Deputy Chiefls) of

for thai period.

The Committee requests chat the cIa.:

---

## Page 3

13-00000

2=.

Patrick: Carpentier

5, 1978

Page. 3

either make these parsons availabie for our stall to interizen

or provide

their

last kroin

address

so that we car connect them

directly.

Thank you for your continuing cooperatio..

Sinceraly,

G. Robert Slarey

Chief Counsel aro Director

GRB: Sird

---

