# 104-10140-10338

## Page 1

104-10140-10338

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CONTROL LOG FOR ISCA REQUESTS

Disseminated

(date and list

of offices)

SECRET

Follow-Up Status

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Nor Reproduce

Notice of Completion

(when received OLC)

PAGE

SCA MAQUEST

idate,

identifying

ref. summary)

1 June 1978 78-2091

Date Received

There is no action file

Ltr

typed at CIA

sgnd

by M. Goldsmith,

Notice to HSCA

The following requested to be

made available for interview &

deposition

B. Hugh Tovar

William S. Donnelly

Thomas B. Casasin

Marguerite D. Stevens

Walter P. Haltigan

Robert G. Lamprell

---

## Page 2

14-UUU0U

!'

ISCA REQUEST

(date, identifying

ref. sunmary) 78-2204

1 June 1978 (Kennedy)

All files, documents, materials

and other information pertaining

to Lee Harvey Oswald & assassinatior

of President Kennedy generatec

under:

1. John McCone

2. Richard Helms

3. William Colby

All files, documents, materials and

other information pertaining to same

generated by Thomas Karamessines.

Äll files, documents, materials and

other information pertaining to :

1. Mr. George de Men

2. Mrs. George de Men

3. Samuel Thomas North

4. Judith Marie Muth North

Date Received

2 June 1978

SCAper

CONTROL LOG FOR HSCA REQUESTS

Disseminate

(date and lis

of offices)

2 June 1978

CRET

Follow-Up Status

SA/DO/OUR

ER

SA/DO/0 CR

ER

→ SA/DO/O

~ OS

~ OGC) Para. 4

only

EK

Notice of Completion

(when received OLC)

PAGE

Notice to HSCA

05- Ma

26 Sort Messe? July 28n,

DDO-R'29

RA 6/14

the a dirtier

DDO-R 6/29

05-186-13

3105-6/14

DO0-PR19/1

OGC-NK

+OP-1K6-1

Ness 12-July 066

OP -NA 6/14

---

## Page 3

14-UUUJU

HSCA REQUEST

(date,

identifying

ref. summary)

25 May 1978 - Kennedy

78-2060

Request of files on present

and former CIA employees

recently interviewed by Staff

Invest. Harold D. Leap

1. Hobert. P. Wheeler

2. Leo Rosenbaum

3. Hope Irene Mason

4. Frederick C. Randall

5. James S. Wood

6. George Von Bretzel

7.. Howard M. Orr

8. George A Fill

?. Robert N. Keith

10. Jerome E. Fox

11. William V. Broe

12. William Crawford

Date Received

25 May 1978

26 May 1978

SEOPer

CONTROL LOG FOR HSCA REQUESTS

Disseminated

(date and list

of offices)

30 May 1978

CRET

Follow-Up Status

OP

Hottashes

Hould Leap renewed

OP. les on 1-10

Notice of Completion

(when received OLC)

PAGE C

Notice to HSCA

..

25 May 1978

25 May 1978

1-10

18

VPJ

---

