A
104-10063-10308) .{ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

Deputy Chief, CI 22 June 1962

Deputy Chief, CI/Project

BILINGUAL - 61G10AK =
Correspomience of a US Defector Who Recently left tbe USSR Homebound

1. As may be seen from the attached news item, which . Lar
Sppeared in the WASHINGTON POST, 9 Jime 1962, a former : —
Marine Sgt. of Fort Worth, Texas, who defected to the USSR =
three years ago, left Moseow recently, together with his
infant child and Russian-born wife bound for the United
States. A search of the Project files revealed that the
attached subject item was seht to subject by his mother on
8 duly 1962. In this item writer discusses sending a par-
cel and requeata him to write more frequently. i

2. This iten be of Interest to Mra. Egerter, CI/SIG,
and also to the FBI. i
e

ye |
Attachment.

) 0° 357

LIT IMA


14-00000

re ;
Crowth ye |

Ora laie rp ae
i ad CEG Tata

1 FACE Ign y bw
2 eek Tetly pa
let dh Roafll ie
7 Caw opts Hoag yt Al on Lie ome yn, nas)
Ea nato > wy LOL
Buk ga Se ae
Dees Mawes re oe aac :
ave fie wal? he ne . =

i ree tae
oe, ack. » We Kart “bm eee:
9 erbiled amngecn eal@ enue po Xe ~2

ee egreeeeie a oa
erntg ) anh ote parmath Le ole ea
pe wal eh moc a ny
hf em, 4 ptm Leek of oles.
PLM ekecd wk th. Prt &, ont,
be pettmare lle, AT anak NADIR RL
Var 7m Fon tear =
Fn pent “9 week fa we asa A.



14-00000

; A Barf me qo rtf Ate amy é
os Sot Set ad ak wth
vg ef am pune devrdr, We pot oF (ri06
OE: CL be, ty DE Lue Pvtek

(Zp. heehee pt we hd 1:30 when IP am
Gn vn Alen Aelia (halata Hn 0 E)
OT ee Aeatf Lhn dees wot Le nethang bot
; geh ank GO Tom whk 3 ft ;
nile. fim Fhe rench, Ve noch os

Kan a OR inee LE, we ety

cone riwuk Lo (Lae hr
mm hod TR ae bngldk “Bewtnevna,

goa eect gl’

: de gar an k ante age

lor Bee
Ti.



14-00000

| 61GLOAK. .

x

OSWALD, Lee H. (Mr. -&Mrs.|
Minsk, IIb

OSWALD; Ms (Mré.).

Box 608, Crowell, ‘Texas.

LB = 8 July 61. Mother writes to son. Writer mentions
he parcel which she sent the addressee. Writer also
nquires if addressee's wife Marina works. / addressee

s a former American who defected to the Soviet Union. ~
fin October 195917

: ject.

isces, .



TA QO N00 pes aetite me eal ae “ Re

ee _B
ae Pe 0 ae sae Mat”
4

7

Honey SY Spotted 3 y

as,
LF LF LF 5D LP LF LI LP

JUL. 10 1961

6/6 /0AK Sieh


14-00000



14-00000



14-00000



14-00000



2°
3S
3
3
iva
+


14-00000

