# 104-10183-10028

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10183-10028

• 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

2

ROUTING

i 5

FROM :

ACTION:

INFO:

DIRECTOR

ROME

CAVE 2 (NE COPY SLOTTED AT 1715-17 JUL 63)

: OOP, ADDP, C/CI, C/TI 2, C/PI/O 4, C/SAS 5, R52

•SECRET 171785Z

PRITY DIR CITE ROME 9701

C/W2/4

DC/TE/42 K

WE/4/X

WE/4/CE

17E181713

DESENSITIZED KEYWAY PERUMEN(DEVIGID AMWHIP

•?,

DE/4/:F0-

REF DIR 14488 4gam63

•1. AFTER TELLING US OF INTENT, AMWHIP L TELEPHONED

AT EMBASSY 9 JULY 63. SAID HE WANTED GIVE HIM VAICH

TO SE FORWARDED TO JOSE VENEGAS VALDESPINO. STATED NATURE HIS

BUSIVESS ROME AND

NAMED LOCATION OF STORE

AnnED HAD BEEN IN

• BARC WITH VENEGAS. MADE APPOINTMENT.WITH

06

2. ALL ABOVE, PICKED UP BY GEVIGID ON CAPÓGOD AMWHIP USED

NO NAME BUT GEVIGID NOW CHOKING AND WILL UNDOUBTEDLY

IDENTIFY ON BASIS OF STORE.

3. ANWHIP I NOT TOLD NOT TO USE PHONE IN ORDER

PROTECT (LAPOGO,

4. REALIZE AHWHIP I KUBARK ASSET OF LONG STANDING PER REF.

BUT RECOMMENO HE BE SURFACED AS CURS TO @EVIGIL) ASAP FOR

FOLL REASONS:

A. IF "I DELAY AVO THEN IDENTIFY, DELAY WILL

PE COVIOUS DE GASIS DATE CUR RECEIPT AROUS ITEY.

BA 1F DO NOT ICENTERY AND DURING AUSUST GO, LATER VISITS

MESS AMAMIP I POCOUCES USEFUL ENTO ON SHICHEEVISIL) BEST EQUIPPED

TO ACT, ÖE SHALL LACK gASIS FOR DELAYINS INFO TO THEN.

LO JUL INES

SOMET

REPROSUCTION DY DINER THAI TA: ISSUINO CFFICE IS PRONIBITED.

Copy N

1....

o....

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

apis

---

## Page 2

14-00000

.ell.h014d.9 1752111.1

Made My landedistribals ,.tu..

CLASSIPIEO MESSAGE O

SEAL

IN 816:9

PAGE "

TARSET,

BEVIGILS HAVE

NO SIGVIFICAVT

NA!TOVAL INTEREST IN

WOULD PROSABLY ACCEPT CUR DECLARATION OF ASSET WITHOUT

INSTITUTINS SURVEILLANCE OR RELATED ACTION.

APPROACH TYPIFIES PROSLEM. WE HAVE

PUSIEU @EVIGIL) HÃND TO LAY GROUEYWORK FOR MIS RECRUITPENT AS

MEAN'S GETTING AT LAURICLE. NUMSER OF SIGVIFICANI PARUMEN

TARGETS ROME TOO SMALL TO PERMIT US HOPE AMWHILP I CAN DO USEFUL

WORK AND CONTINUE ESCAPE DEVIGIL)ATTENTION. CAN WAIT UNTIL

THEY SURFACE HIM TO US AND PRETEND RECRUIT AS OF THAT

DATE BUT MANEUVER IS COMPLICATED AND GAIN IS SLIGHT.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *AMWHIP/I OFFERED SERVICES STA.

---

