1oa-10400-10019)

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

m
en
o
rm
°
HH

BELCORANDUM FOR: TSD/D3/5
ACZENTION: Mr. Ton Campbeli
SUBJECT: Technical, Analysis of Letter and Envelope

/

1. Atteched is a lecver ceiied to the Anerican Enbessy in
Stockhola purportedly from <n officer in the Cainese Communist
Exbassy in Stoczhoin. Also included is the envelope end a plein
folded sheet of;parer whick presim2bly was used to enfolé she
letter within the envelop:. Pleese perform e technicel enelysis

of these attechments to Cevermine vhavever can be determined
ect.cerning the origin of the paver, envelope, typewriter, end
used. If you have any cepadi. rari
with other carrespondeXce originating vith the Chinese Commmis+
Extassy im Stockholm, we wowld like your opinion on whether or
not the stationery, typewriter, and envelope are of the type
normally used oy that Embassy.

2. Because of the sensational nature of the contents of
the letter ana the necessity for our checking out suck allega-
tions as quickly and thoroughly es possible, it is requested
that this technical enalysis be undertaken on e priority basis
and that the undersigned ty notizied by phone es soon as ery
conclusions are reached.

3. Please acimowledse the receipt of the attached letter
and ensure thet its vhereatouts, when in your custody, is e

netter of record. We prefer that the letter and envelope be
kept as intact ac possible wnile undergoing technical analysis.

‘ 3
: les P. Kiteley
we/2 = xT659

| hor, PRE 06t.


13-00000

of America, John 7? Neanedy was

direct order o= the government of

assassirazed by Lee H Oswald vy
the Peoples Republic of China. Lee H Oswald executed the act elonse

Dut there «as helpers and reserv. “Xow all is over" wes password

to his customers. Oswald was a’fully convinced Commnist but he

x

must assassinate Kennedy. We etablised contact with Oswald already

AY
a

‘¢
z
\

when be was in Sowiet but then to try to get his as a spy for China.

.
v

Later he was spy for us. When Lee E Osvald had returned fo USA we
“J. cCoutscteu im anew und sresueucd ois mina “you have beeo & spy
for us" and told him whet could happen to him if FBI got informed.
Eow we had him. He got his last inZormstion in Mexico. /It was not
good to assassinate Kennedy in exico/ “Fair Play for Cuba" was
started only to confuse and throw the blame on Castro Zor the as-—
ssassinetei. Our government thought that USA should atteck Cuba

when Zennedy was murded as the orgiraztion was behind the assassin—

ation. When Caba was attaczed by US Sowiet must help Castro defend
himself. I: that was so it would burden Sowiet that Oswald had visi—

ted. We should be allieted with Sowiet then we would ask them for 4£— ties
re bombs and they should not be able’ to refuse us. We and Sowiet should
win this wer and whole the world shovld be Commnistic. Then we should
essassinate xrustjev and other Soviet leaders and we would be leader

of the NEW /Dap. When this letter: wiil reach you they have maked

e@way with me and all that knowed the planes. This letter is outsmuggled
from our Embassy in Stockholm where the Embassy is arghinese spy-shool. ‘

My name is Ryo Liang Yuan, Officer in the department, for State-secret.
pilosa

$$$ $$$:
If you do not belive this letter explein our hate to US.



13-00000

jnsricen Eabessy |
Strandvagen 101

STOOKHCLM fo

- ete BASSY OF THE
DWITED STATES OE AMERICA
: Gees ~ 1953

MAIL! ROOM,
STOCKHOLM

. pT * sone”
7,

4 . = aan

. * -_

a .

No eer ee

t B
“oa
7 1 ‘
. 5 ~

