Viod-70614“t0064 [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
Jivani dei iki tibia iia afta Rae Ri ai SI A aa tid
OPERATOR = BADGE: OATE + Iu SEP 93
OFFICE: ss PHONE: TIME: 15:24
= PRINTER: TOTS PAGE =: 001 &

REQUESTER: HM877 o
OSN: 21162 DOC DATE: 20 NOV 91 MHF AS te

i
&
* ROOM
i
Judiieideidaidaiinidinidditietiesdddeuded’ COMET iiubbicintictibicisbinbisinintidtinnttintisniosatic

ae SECRET FRPS vee ee
STAFF

ACTION: SE/USSR/10-3 (752) INFO: C/ORMS, DOAOS, LIMITO, OOPD, SEDORECORO,
FILE, 000-2, SE/RR-3 (9/W)

91 6320813 ASR PAGE 001 IN 6320813
20145SZ NOV 91 21162

SECRET 2014542 NOV 91 STAFF
CL FEF}
TO: INFO DIRECTOR.
FOR: LIMIT SE/USSR/10 INFO SE/RR
SLUGS: WNINTEL GTDANCER
SUBJECT: KGB OFFICIAL NIKONOV
REF: NONE
TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: NONE.

2. DURING THE WEEK OF 3-9 NOVEMBER 1991,
, HAD SEVERAL DISCUSSIONS IN MOSCOW WITH "SLAVA™
(C(NTKONOV]), WHO 1S A LONGTIME FRI7ND ANO NOW OEPUTY TO KGB
DIRECTOR ((BAKATIN)) » HAS KNOWN NIKONOV WELL _
SINCE 1976. HE CURRENTLY 1S
UNTIL 22 DECEMBER I99T. SEE

PARA 7 FOR BIO ON( HAS
BEFRIENDEO WHO WAS OINNER GUEST AT

HOME ON 10 NOVEMBER AND PROVIDED THE FOLLOWING INFO ON NIKONOV
AND HIS NEW KGB JOB.

3. NIKONOV 1S THE GRANDSON OF FORMER SOVIET FOREIGN
MINISTER VYACHFSt AV MOLOTOV.
AT STATE
NTKONOV WAS REGARDEO AS EXTREMELY INTELLIGENT AND
CAPABLE BUT GAVE THE IMPRESSION THAT HE WAS AN IDEOLOGICAL
HAROLINER. BELIEVED THAT HE WAS LIKELY TO BE A
RISING STAR IN THE SOVIET SYSTEM AND RECOMMENDED HIM FOR AN
: IREX~SPONSORED VISIT TO THE U.S. AS EXPECTED, NIKONOV'S VIEWS
AND RHETORIC MODERATED VERY VISIBLY AFTER HIS FIRST OIRECT
EXPOSURE TO 7HE U.S. HE HAS HAD AT LEAST ONE AOOITIONAL
IREX-SPONSOREO TRIP TO THE U.S. AND HAS SPENT PERIOOS OF TIME
AS A PERSONAL GUEST AT THE HOME OF

4. NIKONOV CAME TO WORK IN HIS POSITION AT THE KGB AS A
RESULT OF BEING A CLOSE FRIEND OF BAKATIN. DURING THE AUGUST
1991 COUP ATTEMPT NIKONOV SAID THAT HE REFUSED TO FOLLOW HIS
BOSS'S ORDER TO ACT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE DECLARED STATE OF
EMERGENCY. HE WAS DISHISSEO BY HIS BOSS (NFI) FROM THIS
POSITION AND CALLEO BAKATIN TO SEEX ADVICE. BAKATIN SAID HE
WAS ALSO OPPOSING THE COUP AND WOULO LOOK OUT FOR NIKONOV ONCE
ORDER WAS RESTORED. SOON AFTER THE COUP BAKATIN CALLED HIM TO
ASK THAT HE ASSIST WITH RESTRUCTURING THE KGB. AFTER iT WAS
AGREED THAT NIKONOV COULD DECLINE TO ACCEPT TWO-STAR MILITARY

- KGB RANK ANO WORK IN THE JOB FOR AN EQUIVALENT CIVILIAN
COMPENSATION PACKAGE, HE CAME TO THE KGB AS BAKATIN'S DEPUTY.
NIKONOV SAID HIS FRIENDS WERE DELIGHTED THAT HE HAD DECLINED
THE KGB COMMISSION.

5. NIKONOV'S FIRST ASSIGNMENT FROM BAKATIN WAS HAKING

ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE RELATIONSHIP WHICH HAS NOW
COME INTO BEING. IN PREPARATION FOR ONE POSSIBLE QUESTION

<<< TEMPORARY WORKING COPY - DESTROY AFTER USE >>>

SECRET


13-0000‘

SECRET
Intisdiddididoeitbioiciddotidii iniiddeiicainotbieitenicnt: Siidbiiniddsintiebioisit
* OPERATOR : BADGE: = lu SEP 930
OFFICE ot PHONE : 1S: 2m *
ROOM PRINTER: TOTS + 002 &
REQUESTER: HM877
% OSN: b1i62 DOC DATE: 20 NOV

fide ptisdisioliddiodioueoricniiobcees COMET tobe

WHICH MIGHT BE RA!SEO, NIKONOV PERSONALLY REV'EWED X38 FILES TS
DETERMINE IF LEE HARVEY ((OSWALD)) HAD BEEN A KGB AGENT. HE
REVIEWED FIVE THICK VOLUMES OF FILES GN OSWALD. NIKONCY IS NOW
CONFIOENT THAT SSWALD WAS AT NO TIME AN AGENT CONTROLLED BY THE
KG3. FROM THE GESCRIPTION OF OSWALD IN THE FILES HE DOUBTED
THAT ANYONE COULD CONTROL OSWALO, BUT NOTED THAT THE KBG
WATCHED HIM CLOSELY ANC CONSTANTLY WHILE HE WAS IN THE USSR.

HE COMMENTED THAT OSWALO HAO A STORMY RELATIONSHIP WITH HIS
SOVIET WIFE, WHO RODE AIM iNCESSANTLY. THE FILE ALSO REFLECTED
THAT OSWA.0 WAS A POCR SHCT WHEN HE TRIEO TARGET FIRING IN THE
USSR.

6. _IN PREPARATICN FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF A _

NIKONGV
PERSONALLY PERFORMED AN INQUIRY FOR BAXATIN INTO THE FATE OF
SWEOISH DIPLOMAT RAQUL ((WALLENBERG)). THERE IS STILL PRESSURE
FROM THE SWEDISH SIOE TO HAVE A DEFINITIVE ANSWER ON THIS
MATTER BECAUSE OF THE CONTINUING IMPORTANCE OF THE WALLENBERG = |
FAMILY. NIKONOV WAS AMAZED TO FIND OUT THAT THE KG3 HAO NOT |
iBEEN ABLE TO PREVIOUSLY ESTABLISH WHETHER WALLENBERG HAD DIED
‘AND UNDER WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES. HE WAS ABLE TO FIND PARTIAL
EVIDENCE FROM FOURTEEN DIFFERENT SOURCES (NF:). NIXONOV NOW
BE.IEVES, BUT FOUND NO CONCLUSIVE PROOF, THAT WALLENBERG WAS
EXECUTED LATE IN 1947, THERE WERE INCICATIONS THAT WALLENBERS
WAS SUSPECTED OF HAVING CONTACTS WITH OTHERS WHO WERE ACCUSED
OF PROVIDING FALSE DIPLOMATIC IDENTITY DOCUMENTS TO OTHERS
BEYOND JEWS SAVEO FROM THE HOLOCAUST. AMONG THESE WERE NAZI
WAR CRIMINALS WHO WERE ALLOWED TO ESCAPE. THERE WAS NO PROGF
OF WALLENBERG'S GUILT IN ANY OF THESE CHARGES.

7, (WHO TS NIKONOV'S:
AND FRIEND 1S:

“RETIRED

RESIDES NEAR 1
_——_ftuee. |

THERE ARE NO BASE TRACES ON \ HE SERVED IN THE
MILITARY AND IS VERY WELL NIGPASEN ThwARNs THE 11s

074-005-011, 201-0005925 ie
8. FILE: DEFER. DECL OAOR ORV HUM 4-82,
END OF MESSAGE SECRET

END OF DOCUMENT

<<< TEMPORARY WORKING COPY - DESTROY AFTER USE >>>

cenover
