# 104-10186-10145

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10145

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TOLO InAlArEs COACALOs lOlAuALO ALALIDE IDO TALIODA DAPADA Ol lDO UOlioS dualA ontais lhe danina of lhe Rapioraro laMa, Tille

18 0AC. BOCA 199 ANO TAL 1DA CALOTLOR DE TOTALALOO Ol MATIA lO ANY MARDRE LO NA ULAULDONINS DAIPOS le UTODIDILAS DE LAT.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO

FOREIG DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT

Telephone Sybtem in the Direccion

General de Inteligercia (DGI)

REPORT.NO.

DATE DISTR

CSCI-316/02300-65

2 June 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACO. (February ) 965)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOUBCE GRADINGS ARE DEPINITIVR APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVR.

SOURCES

1.

2.

3

A former Cuban IS offierr

who seried with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

In addition to the ordinary telephore syster in Havana, thore 18

a government telephone systen which usis the exchange name PIZARRA,

connecting all offices of government organizations and government -

sponsoreu enterprises.

Each governrent office or enterprise has

at least or: PIZARRA telephone wnich is distinct from the regular

telephone sistem.

in the Direccion Concral de Inteligencia

¡Goneral Directorate of Intelligenc» - Del) Headquarters,

IS a PIZARPA telephone controlled dy Manuel PIVEIRO LoSada's X

secretary,

"Vidalina"y whe works in

"y" building.

If any member

DGI wishes to call anyone

on sersitive business through

the pILarpa exchang:, he may either state his requirements to

Vidalina, who will nake the sall for hin and report the informa-

tion back when she has arquired it, or go to "M" building and

make the call hirsall on de pIlARRA telephone.

With the exception

Of PIREIHD's rEsIdencE ad cffice, where ho has his own PIZARRA

telephone, do ether Del office has a PIZARRA telephone.

no directory for PILARRA rumbers ard it is not a dial system,

works through a contral switehboard with opcrators; it is con-

sidered secure.

The caller picks up the telephone and getz an

operator on the central PILARRA switchboard; the caller asks for

the offler to which he vistos to speak, and, lf he knows, asks for

the person to whom he mistos to speat.

A DGI dificer whose office

tine (23-2535) and

bask las Vläailla anto "" building on the regular

Each DGI office has a number of private (as opposed to PIZARRA)

Departament de Liboracion Nacional (National

Liberation Department - LY), cutside the "M" building headquarters,

for example,

there ar: sir telephones.

From these telephones one

dials any number in the telephone directory, private or a govern-

ment office number, direct.

for internal calls within the dGI,

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIEN DISSEN

STATE

1 01A

REPCIRCLANT

(Noras field diatribution

CISCSO =

nad boy

NAVY

I&NS

1 AIR

INSA

LYNX

I OCR

Teart-dad

de 1e2eane

FBI

$

INFORMATION-REPORT.

INFOL

RMATION-REPORT

NHC/CA

DX-2350

13

IF URITISHIL

NP (AMMUG-])

15-2

CSCI-316/02300

MUC/OS

NIC/HAVE

SID/AN

COORDINATINC

65

---

## Page 2

4-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 2 .

CSCI-316/02300-65

an officer calling from the DGI private telephone need dial only

into the switchboard and ask for an extension.

3. The Cuban telephono system formerly used a number-letter dial

code; but

in 1961 letters had long' been abolished and only

numbers were used. ' The number-letter equivalents are:

1 - no letter

4 - I

7 . U

2 - B

5 - 1

8 - #

3 - ?

6 - H

9. -X

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

