# 104-10065-10047

## Page 1

1104-10065-10047

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

do 4-8-1. 10 10 010 =

• 13.01

•SECRET.".

FRP:..

CONF: C/LA8

INFO: FILE, VRA

STAFF

C/EPS/EG=2, C/OG/DMS,

(27/P)

78 0779819

TOT:

PAGE 001

3123552

MA'

78

DIRECTOR 231858

Tile 11SC15

S EC

R

E T

STAFF

312355Z DIRECTOR 231858

TO: IMMEDIATE CARACASA

WNINTEL RYBAT

REF: [CARACAS: 363510771984

1.

HOS RECORDS SHOW THAT A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE HOUSE SELECT

• COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA) REVIEWED FILE ON WISCARLET- 3 ON

6 FEBRUARY 1978.

HSCA MEMBERS, ARRIVING IN

CARACAS ON 1 JUNE, WILL PROBABLY BE AWARE

C. OF OUR FORMER RELATIONSHIP WITH W-3.

UNDER AGREEMENT WITH HSCA, THEY ARE NOT TO CONTACT OR

INTERVIEW AGENTS, PAST OR PRESENT.

TO DATE NO REQUEST HAS BEEN RECEIVED AT HOS.

IN EVENT THAT HSCA MEMBERS NOT AWARE OF OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH

(WO3, WE BELIEVE AMBASSADOR SHOULD TELL MSCA MEMBERS THAT W-3 WAS

FORMER RTACTION AGENT AND HELD SENSITIVE POSITION WITHIN GOV. HE

SHOULD URGE MEMBERS TO FOREGO INTERVIEW WITH W-3,

AND EXPLAIN, IF NECESSARY, THAT

UNINTENTIONAL LEAK (BUGGED ROOM, W-3 INDISCRETION DURING INTERVIEN

AND IN EARSHOT OF GOV OFFICIALD OF W-Z'S PAST CLANDESTINE RELATIONSHIP

WITH RTACTION, WHILE HE HELD SENSITIVE GOV POSITION, COULD EMBARRASS

EMBASSY AND WOULD LIKELY RESULT IN FURTHER STRAIN IN RIACTION

RELATIONSHIP WITHÍGOV. ENTITIES. IN OPEN VENEZUELAN PRESS, THIS COULD

MAKE SENSATIONAL READING DURING ELECTION YEAR.

IF COMMITTEE PERSISTS ON INTERVIEW WITH W-3, NOTWITHO

STANDING HSCA AGREEMENT WITH RIACTION, AMBASSADOR SHOULD STATE

THAT EXCEPTION BEING MADE IN THIS ONE CASE DUE TO 1965 ALLEGATION

RE W-3 INVOLVEMENT IN ASSASSINATION PLOT AGAINST CASTRO AND •

C IN TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.

AMBASSADOR SHOULD CAUTION THEM TO USE

DISCRETION IN TALKING WITH WO3 AND TO REFRAIN FROM ANY DISCUSSION

•RELATING TO W-J'S PAST ASSOCIATION AND ACTIVITIES WITH RTACTION.

AMBASSADOR COULD ALSO COMMENT THAT DEPTS OF JUSTICE AND STATE ARE

FULLY AWARE OF W-J'S PAST CONTACT WITH RTACTION AND THAT SIMILAR

INFO COULD BE MADE AVAILABLE TO COMMITTEE BY MOS, ON REQUEST.

SECRET

# 05943

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

STAFF

78

0779819

PAGE 002

TOT: 312355Z MAY 76

DIRECTOR 231858

FILE 201-300985.

E2 IMPDET.>

ORIG:

CALA/UCE/V GAMORI X1969) ; COORD:

C/LA/VCE (BEARDSLEY) i

SA/DO/O (SHEPANEK); OLC (BRECKINRIDGE); C/LA/STB. (STURBITTS);

C/PCS (PAGE); AUTH: C/LA (WARREN); REL: DDO (PAGE); CL BY 9499.

END

OF

MESSAGE

SECRET

• ..

---

