# 104-10186-10150

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10150

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

Direccion General de Inteligencia DATE DISTR

(DGI) Personnel Abroad

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/02286-65

1 June 1965

1

DATE Of 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. (March 1965)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE,

A former Cuban IS officer who sorved with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

1.

2.

The Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI) overseas field-station chief has no respon-

sibility for physical or other

security of the Cuban Embassy or

Mission, nor does any member of his staff.

The Del would not use & regular foreign-service officer in the

has not been cleared and briefed and is not,

therefore, considered qualified for intelligence tasks.

If a

foreign-service officer is briefed, it may be assumed that he

has been cleared. and that he is thereafter considered a member

of the DGI (at least by the DGI).

On returning to Havana per-

such a foreign-service officer briefed for a field

assignment normally would be sent to DGI Headquarters rather

to the Ministry of Foreign Relations.

5

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

ATAT

I DIA

¡ ARMY

REPCINCLANT

CINCSO #

(Notes field distribution indicoted by " #".)

I NAVY

_I&NS

I AIR

INFORMATION REPORT

1 WE/5/R

MICALIN

WE/MADR

1 CI/R&A

T5-7

INSA

OCR

IFBI

WHIC/RE

WHIC/OS

5

WHC/WAVE

RID/AN

TOTALS WHC 8 (1), WE 1 (1), CIA, RID 1

INFORMATION REPORT

ITEX CAVADA

STEXBRITISHI

L/ WASHYBRE

JL1-2182

INP (ANVLG-1)

Сы1-316: 02286-

ICOCCCINATINS

1EL41

LIAISON

2

1

•V/SR

---

