# 104-10067-10190

## Page 1

1104-10067-10191

.. 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Defector Paper

The Forward. No comment.

Morris and Mollie Block. No comment.

Harold Citrynell.

No comment.

Bruce Frederick Davis. No comment.

Shirley Dubinsky.

No comment.

Joseph Dutkanicz. No comment.

Martin Greendlinger. No comment.

Nicholas Petrulli. No comment.

Libero Ricciardelli. No comment.

Vladimir Sloboda. No comment.

Robert E. Webster. No comment.

Lee Harvey Oswald. No comment.

Addendum - Debriefing Practices

Page 18/19, paragraph 190. Refer to letter to Mr. G. Robert e

Blakey, dated 26 March 1979 re subject.

Page 20, paragraph 193. Put period at end of line 4 after L

debriefing; delete "conducted by military intelligence".

Page 21, paragraph 194, second line. Delete "using Departments

of Defense

cover"

Page 21, paragraph 194, fifth line. Delete "in the AmericanL

Embassy in Copenhagen".

Replace deletion with "abroad".

formerge 21, sixth line. Delete "his" and replace with "the

Page 21, Tine 9. Delete "Angleton" and replace deletion with

"CIA".

Page 22, paragraph 195, second line. Insert "CIA" before•

"representative".

Delete

"from the CIA's Office of Operations

and SR/6"

---

## Page 2

14-00000

...

..

Page 24, paragraph 198, sixth line. Delete "Collection Division of"C

Footnotes

Morris Block. See letter to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 March 1979

re subject.

Harold Citrynell. See letter to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 March

1979 re subject.

Bruce Frederick Davis. See letter to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 Marche

1979 re subject.

Shirley Dubinsky. No comment. v

Joseph Dutkanicz. See letter to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 Marck

1979 re subject.

Martin Greendlinger. See letter to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 March

1979 re subject.

Nicholas Petrulli.

See letter to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 March

1979 re subject.

Libero Ricciardelli. See letter to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 Marcit

1979 re subject.

Vladimir Sloboda. See letter to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 March

1979 re subject.

Robert E. Webster.

See letter to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 March

1979 re subject.

Deryabe rya swald. Footnote 300. Replace Golitsyn with "X" ande

• Footnote 422. See Footnote 53. Delete "CIA notes Davis".'

Footnote 435.

Replace "Tennent H. Bagley" with "DC/SB"; Golitsyn ~

with "X".

Footnote 437. Footnote should read "attachment to CIA memorandum, c

1/27/78"•

Delete all rest.

Footnote 438. Delete footnote; replace with "Ibid". e

Footnote 440. First sentence okay. We suggest you delete remainde

of footnote.

It appears to contradict the fact that not all the

files were unexpurgated.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

(

....

die'

Footnote 441. Staff summary. Delete remainder of footnote.

Footnote 442. Staff summary. Delete remainder of footnote.

Footnote 443. Staff sunmary. Delete remainder of footnote.

Footnote 444. Staff summary. Delete remainder of footnote

Footnote 446. Staff summary. Delete remainder of footnotes

Footnote 451. Staff summary. Delete remainder of footnote.

NOTE: We note that you have changed footnote numbers. You will have to

correlate old numbers appearing in our memorandum with your new numbering

system.

---

