# 104-10213-10202

## Page 1

1104-10213-10202".

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

DOHIS 70-1-1

CHSFTER Ill

15 November 1074

ANNEX B

THE 20! SYSTEM

Rescission: Annex B of Chapter I1I, CSHB T0-1-1; 27 October 1968

1. INTRODUCTION

The 201 system provides a method for identilying a person of specific in.

terest to the Operations Directorate and for controlling and filing all pertinent

information about that person. The system also provides a means for identifying

subjects of 201 files from various calegories of information abut them and for

producing lisits of 201 personalities according to those cairories. Only a rela-

tively small number of personalities indexed are of sulficient interest lo justify

opening a 201 dossier. These are normally subjects of extensive reporting and

CI investigation, prospective agents and sources, members of groups and organi-

zations of continuing target interest, or subjects on whom a volune of corre-

spondence has accumulated

2. THE 201 SYSTE.!

The principal features of the 201 system are:

a. The 201 Number: a unique number, i.e., 201-1231561, assigned to each

individual in the system to serve as identifying file number for reporting on that

individual

b. The 201 Dossier: the official file containing the 201 opening form (Form

831) and all biographic reporting on and references to the individnal, ie, per-

sonal history, cunient status, and prospects.

c. The Master 201 Record: a machine record generated by the opening of

a 201 file. This record produces the master 201 reference for the Main Inder and

stores the pertinent information which may later be retrieved for special listings.

d. Main Index Master 201 Reference: this reference, printed in reply to an

Index Search Request, is printed as illustraird below. When data are absent

within the record, succeeding data items or lines will be mored up and the ref-

erence consolidated

23

SECRET

AHt.

dri.

12-20004%

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECKET

DOHB TO.J.1

CHAPTER IlI, ANNEX B

15 November 1971

LPOB CERM, BERLINO

OCC PHARLACIST

OCE CODE CHE:

SUBJECT FECESTLY ATTENDEO THE SEVENTIENTH NINJAL

CONTERICE OP

L9 PIARUICISTS BEI

STIRNATIO:IRL ASSOCIATION OF CHOIISE.

3U MUSICH,

'ERYANY FROM 22 THROUSI

9 CCICBER.

One nor 10

201-00326910.

TYPE ИАЧЕ Т

O1 COSES M XX

RED DATZ SI

Information About Subject

1. Sequeuce Number and Nasse

2. Ser and Date of Birth

3. Citizenship

4. Mace of Birth

5. Occupation

6. Occupation Code

7. Text

Document Reference Dold Croirp

8. 201 Namber

9. Name Type Indicator

10. Of Codes

11. Record Date (year only)

12. Reference

ISC Control Information

13. Dale of latest update of the mord

14. STAR Index Record Number

24

SECRET

?:..

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB T0-1-1

CHAPTER IL, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

c. Ol Code: a to letter symbol used in conjunction with the 201 per.

sonality records in the 201 system to record the association of an individual

with organizations or activities of operational interest. Of codes cover intelli.

nce and security service affiliation, whether stalf or agent, or known

spect, as well as activities of DDO interest. There are two cutegories of l

codes for use by components:

(1) general Ol codes (Attachment 1)

(2) 01 codes assigned to a specific component for intelligence services

or other specilic organizations.

A component may request an Ol code be established by submitting a mem-

orandum to the DDO/R.MO through the component Records Management

Officer.

A 201 personality may be assigned two Ol codes. An Ol code may be assigned

when the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form S31) is initiated (see

paragraph 3b belowv) by filling in Bor 13 or a code may be assigned or added

at a later date by a Form 831 amendment

The 201 system has the capability of producing machine listings of 201

personalities bj. Ol codes. For example, if an Ol code has been opened for the

security service of a certain country a listing may be compiled of all members

of that service.

f. 201 Machine Lists: produced from the mechanized 201 Index, based on

names or other identifying information of personalities on whom 201 dossiers

exist

3. OPENING A 201 DOSSIER

a. General

The opening of a 201 dossier is the prerogative of an operational com-

ponent, in coordination with the Information Services Group. An opening creates

& master 201 record. Changes to the master record and the occasional closing

of a 201 dossier are controlled jointly by the desks and ISG. 201 dossiers may be

opened on persons who meet the carding criteria described in Chapier Il of this

handbook, when there is a reasonable expectation that additional information

will be acquired and filed in such a dossier. Generally dossiers are opened on

persons about whom counterintelligence information is being reported, and per-

sons of operational interest to the Operations Directorate, specifically those

persons for whom provisional operational approvals and operational approvals

are reguested (see exception below). 201 files are not lo be opened on stalt

comployees, staff agents and most catezories of contract employees. Files on

'25

SECRET

-=-

--==

---

## Page 4

14-00000

in -

SECRET

DOH® 70-1-1

CHAPTER Ill, AUVEN B

15 November 1974

persons sho are only o! local interest to a field station or Headyuuters desk

and on whom no DDO records correspondence exists are not a part of the DDO

records systém and are to be maintained by that unit. Some desks lery require

ments on ISG for automatic 201 openings on certain categorius of persons whose

names appear in incoming dispatches. These are listed in Altachment 2 201

dossiers should be opened in the following categories:

(1) Subjects of provisional operational approval and operational ap-

proval requests. However, a file need not be opened when a POA is requested

for persons being trained for a foreign liaison service and who are of opera-

tional interest for training purposes only.

(2) Persons for whom the field requests a 201 opening.

(3) MHFIXTURE personalities: bonafide diplomals of other than

denied area countries, in close association with staff personnel.

(4) Subjects of a Personal Record Questionnaire Part I.

(5) Persons on whom a Slain Inder search reveals inforination in five

or more documents (see DOI 70-20).

(6) Subjects of Interagency Source Register memoranda from ISN/

ISR (opened only by IP/R.VS).

b. Requesting a 201 File Opening

Headquarters desks may open a 201 file by filling out and submitting

a 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) to the Records Main-

tenance Section (IP/RMS). Form 831 is also used do create or amend the

master 201 record and 201 machine listings

and to register the assign-

ment of a cryptonym to a 201 personality. Attachment 3 consists of saliple

201 Personality File Action Requests for opening and amending 20l's. A field

station may request the opening of a 201 file by writing 201- in the Head-

quarters file or cross-reterence box on the dispatch form and/or alter the

subject's name in the body of the dispatch. A telepouch request for a 201 opening

is made by indicating 201- in the file number line. A cable request is made by

placing 201- after the term

"File" on the last line of the transmission. IP/AN

vill open 201 files as reguested by dispatch or telepouch but it is the respons

bility of the desk to respond to cable requests. Field stations are notified o

201 openings through receipt of the field master 201 record.

26

SECRET

--antana

11-

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

DOIIB 70-1-1

CHAFTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

4. CONTENTS OF THE DOSSIER

a name trace or other process, i.e., revie of predecessor documents, it must

be consolidated into his personality dossier. See DOl 70-20 for consolidation

procedures.

Material which is filed in the dossier includes but is not limited to:

• a. 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831).

b. Biographic information including photographs, fingerprints,

hardwriting samples.

c Personal Record Questionnaire Parts I and ll.

d. Operational and other security approvals.

c. Name check replies, requests, clearances, and approvals.

f. Acknowledgement of pseudonym:

g. 201 personality assessments and evaluations.

h. Copy of contract and termination papers

i. Secrecy agreement.

I Agent Duty Status Report.

k Training and evaluation.

I. SGSWIRL report

ra Newspaper clippings.

n. Any information which helps provide a better understanding of the

subject and our interest in him; this may include operational reporting

5. MAINTENANCE OF 201 DOSSIERS

The 201 personality dossier contains, in document date order, papers which

have been made a part of the Central Records System as well as those which

have not. Record documents may range from newspaper or magazine articles

on the subject to finance and other administrative papers.

28.1

SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

pingsaamade door, 9901000-0000 doll o

SECRET

DOHB T0.1-1

CHAITER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1971

a Purging

Purging a 201 dossier is the responsibility of the desti olficer. lt requires

discrimination in recognizing operationally useful matcrial, rather than the

simple distinction between official and unofficial papers; it will therefore take

place under the supervision of a Records Officer. Purging should be done

periodically. A 201 dussier heing forwarded to Central files for retention should

be purged. A 201 dossier should be purged of the following:

(1) Duplicate material, i.e, exact copy (s) of a document

(2) Name trace form (Form 362) unless it has been the basis for

the opening.

(3) All abstract slips.

(4) All document restriction notices (Form 1884).

(5) The disseminated version of positive inteligence information it

a copy of the raw report is contained in the 201 file; the dissemination number

then must be transferred to the firse page of the raw report.

(8) Routing slips, routing and record sheets (Form 610) and dispatch

cover sheets unless there are remarks such as coordinations or comments.

_.. (7) Record copy documents which only repeat substantive information

contained in other documents in the file; authorization fur destruction is

by the Records Ofticer.

(8) Top Secret documents are not to be retained in a 201 dossier

fonvarded to Central Files; the document must be downgraded for retention

in the 201 dossier. To downgrade a Top Secret document, an authorized

officer in the originating office or the Records Olficer having jurisdiction

over the contents of the material must possess Top Secret classification

authority. If the document cannot be downgraded the file should be retained

at the desk or the copy of the TS document should be remored, retained

in a desk TS file or fonvarded to the Top Secret Control Officer, and a

cross-reterence sheet (Form S67) placed in the 201 file giving the location

of the TS document

(9) Deferred documents (see 5b(2)).

b. Maintenance Procedures

(1) All material in a 201 dossier will be filed in document date order.

In the case of document attachments which have been classified into a 201

26.2,

SECRET

-re cant

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

DOMB 70-1-1

CHAPTER 1II, ANVEY B

15 November 1971

dossier and stparated from the basic document by the assignment of a slash

number, the attachment will be filed by the date of the basic document.

(2) Deferred docurnents will not be filed in a 201 dossier. If they are

to be retained in the dossier they should be sent to IP/RMS for classification

into that 201.

(3) Field index cards (held by some desks) and area desk cards may

be retained in the 201 as part of a consolidation procedure. These cards

should be mounted on a full-size sheet of paper for fling in the 201.

(4) A 201 dossier previously opened on a person who becomes a staff

employee and which contains Record Copy documents will be restricted to

the ISG/DIP unless the desk retains the restriction. The dossier should be

closed if there are no Record Copy documents in it

(5) A 201 opened in pseudonym should be consolidated into the true

name 201 if one exists or converted lo the true name.

(6) Field and duplicate (shadow) 201 files no longer of active interest

should be incorporated into the official 201 after the duplicate material

has been purged ky the desk officer and the remaining information classified

to that 201 by she Analysis Section (IP/AN).

(7) Any document with a predecessor organization cover sheet or an

OPC (Office o! Policy Coordination)

cover sheet from the Archives and

Disposition Section (IP/ARD) must be returned to IP/ARD for processing

to the 201.

(8) Desk memoranda (with or without a cocument source number)

containing substantive or derogatory information on the subject of the 201

should be sent to IP/AN to be classified officially into the 201 file.

(9) An attachment which should be separated from its basic document

for inclusion in a 201 personality dossier will be forwarded with the basic

document to IP/AY for processing into the 201.

(10) To retain the PaL, RYBAT, or KAPOK sensitivity of a document

remaining in a 201 dossier being retired to Central Files, place that document

in an envelope sealed with black tape (see DOI 70-17). Any RYBAT, P&L,

or KAPOK document sent to Central Files not in a black-taped envelope will

automatically be handled as desensitized A black-taped envelope may con-

tain only one document and must be filed in chronological order within the

file. If there are numerous documents of this type the dest officer may black-

tape the entire dossier rather than individual documents (see DOl T0-10).

28.3

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB T0-1.1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

slack-raped dossiers or dossiers with black-taped documents will b

landled as restricted dossiers.

(11) An inactive 201 dossier or an inactive volume of a large 201

dossier on permanent charge sbould be returned to Central Files under a

Routing and Record Sheet with the notation shown below.

DO UNCLASSIEITO DO BRICE

O CONFIDENTIRE

ROUTAVO ANO RECORD SHETT

no. pos

TRUSHITIL O JATITE 201 DOSSIERS

•G7 SECRET

IP/71200

66-52

to 51372771

r tillasco too CS 10-1-

prer 111, A-sex 1

Toruso(a) +--070200010)

at 20l.

PARESSEROS DORALeS

(ALRAC) POrA 2023 RO

Does lar)

Boo-Pesertesad Doralex

...

Tor SAllS Crarpo Dozelara:

All dramate pritar to Tata,

sarvestos to IP/Piles. All

recaload at

seas.

27 8106

( SECRET

• COMFIDENTIAL

I UNCLASSIFIED

28.4

SECRET

i-listin

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SECRET

DOI18S 70-1-1

CHAPTER II, ANVEY B

15 November 1974

6. 201 DOSSIER CHARGES

1 201 dossier may be kept on permanent charge at the dest during any

period of active interest. If the dossier is transferred to another disk, she desk

officer who is transferring the dossier must notify Central Files of the transfer.

Central Files will then send the Notice of Transfer of Document or File Account-

ability (Form 2977) to the new action desk officer.

CCAFISEATIAL

NOTICE OF TRANSFER OF DOCUMENT OR FILE ACCCUMINDILITY

TO:

saal

ThIs 18 S0 DEPISy you ESAt ascountabIllty for the docuser"(e) sad/or Elle(a) cired

te lou has bees irass"erted to you by:

8000d

Accordingly, Il's recorde son reflect you as le custodias.

EAt, AJÓ2, lI J: ISre NY qUestIoOS MeSArlES Lyis tranaser.

Picass contact IP/PIle8,

marci on vente

oax, anaxa

• пос. Дате

rantires

ока. по.

294, 2377009009000

CONFIDENTIAL

The new acsion desk officer must then fill out a 201 Personality File Action

Request (Form 813) to change the action desk designation to insure that the

201 personality will be included in the Headquarters and field machine listings

for his comproent

7. RESTRICTED DOSSIERS

2. Access to a sensitive 201 dossier may be restricted by holding the file at the

desk or placing it on restriction in Central Files.

(1) The dossier may be restricted by checking Bor 2 on the 201

Personality File Action Request (Form 831) when the file is opened

28.5

SECRET

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER HI, AVVEN B

15 lorember 1974

• (2) The dossier may be restricied by holding it on permanent charge

from Contral Files. (Note: To maintain the restriction of a dossier being

retured to Central Files for rétention, a File Restriction Notice (Form

2021) must accompany the dossier.)

(3) The dossier may be restricted änd held in Central Files by sub

nitting a File Restriction Notice (Form 2021)

CONFIDENTIAL

pasan p.0108 808

*P/T

5C-52

XP/DOU

TU3E 17-6

ASTION DEST: 1.

2.

FILE RESTRICTIDS NOTICE

TO TODETICE A PILO, CONPLACO EACTIOS A (ANgSALUTE 03 8.0, 207

DeCERSAry).

To resore a restrictloa, carplete Soct100 $ (R.O, AlEATUTE

SANTALA

825300T TO: (UZe COUSTY OF LUB-COUSTY COLO QuIDOT, See CSI Ta 23).

Date:

SOTTILS

ROMOTE RESTADENIOS (AJSHORIZED BY)

CAROTITI:

20, 2021 :0:

COSFIDENTIAL

_ к. О. Но.

b. Amness to a restricted dossier located in Central Files is jimited to the

personnel of the restricting desk or persons authorized by that desk Any request

for the charge of a restricted dossier or any document within a restricted dossier

held in Central Files sill be fonvarded with the entire dossier and a multiple

routed cover sheet to the restricting desk. This desk may then forsard the file

to the requesier or deny the request and return the dossier to Central Files. The

desk will notify the requester of a denial.

c Anyone requesting a restricted dossier, or a document within a restricted

dossier, permanently or temporarily charged to a desk, will be referred to that

dest by Central Files.

26.6

SECRET

---

## Page 11

4-00000

SECKET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHATTER IlI, ANNEX B

15 lovember 19:4

8. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION ON 201 PERSOVALITIES

The Automated Inder Section (IP/AlS) will providi in inntity of the

subject of a 201 number unless the 201 file is restricted, in which case the

requester will be referred to the restricting desi.

IP/AIS will also provide the 201 number assigned to a name, unless the 201

file is restricted, or state that there is no 201 number assigned. Requesters should

supply identifying information whenever available for each name submitted.

Requests pertaining to five or fewer names or numbers tray be made by

telephone by calling the IP/AIS red line extension; IP/NIS will provide the

information by return call to the requester's extension as listed in the Badge

Table. Reguests for more than five names or numbers must be listed and sent

by tube or courier to IP/AIS; IP/AIS will reply by return mail.

9. 201 DOSSIER CANCELLATION

A 201 file may be authorized for cancellation by a Records Officer, alter

appropriate coordination. The file should be forwarded to IP/RMS which will

destroy the folder and the cards leading to it and will remore the name and...

number from machine lists. Any Record Copy document contained in the folder

will be reclassified to another appropriate file or sent to the Destruction Unit

(IP/DU) as directed by the desk Records Officer.

1Q. 201 MACHINE LISTINCS

Nachine listings provide field státions and Headquarters desks with names

and 201 numbers in the requester's particular geographic or functional area of

interest. If a component sishes to exclude a sensitive 201 personality from its

alphabetic, numeric, and cryptonym listings, this may be done when opening

the 201 or later by a 201 amendment. On the 201 Personality File Action Request

(Form 83)) leave the country of location (Box 15) and interest desk (Box 16)

blank, use the non-country code 900 in the action bor (Box 14), and indicate

permanent charge to the responsible desk The only listing which will include the

201 number is the IP/201 record for the Vital Records program. 201 listings are

categorized as standard or nonstandard and as scheduled or special

a. Slandard Listings

Issued semi-annually to Headquarters and the field; based on a component's

mierest as indicated in the "Action Desk," "Country of Location," and "Interest

26.7

SECRET

---

## Page 12

4-00000

8769

25.

SECRET

8004°1

DOHR 70-1-1

CHAPTEN IIL, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

Dest blocks on the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831). The

standard listings available are:

.: (1) Alphabetical by sumame, leading to a 201 number;

(2) Alphabetical by given name, leading to a 201 number;

(3) Alphabetical by cryptonym, leading to a 201 number;

(4) Numerical, leading to a surname;

.

(5) Numerical, leading to a cryptor.ym.

SECRETISRGANIZATION INTERNAL USE ONE

at, tiT.

SBI0NIR S10S

CMIAT

R in in

CASIN

Mimir, 00.

Cross, 1654

TANG 1S

0178

osse

7381

CHil

0EE-5A

0505

DIDI

ASIER, MIRASSU

8.0v

ста

7A3•16

01399

81X

TARASTIK

*RE HEN EN

080ss0as0sassssesmam

8868808

MEAL

8.g0-8 803

108-78

#: + 1(91042388299420

14147

0184839

RES!

Palms

pair

268

SECRET

-

---

## Page 13

4-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

СПАРТЕЕ IT, ANVEN В

15 November 19.4

All standard listings are cumuntive; previous editions inust be destroyed

upon receipt of current editions. These listings are by their very nature extremely

sensitive compilations of information and must be given every possible saleguard.

b. Non-Standard Listings

Based on one or more of the following selection criteria:

(1) Country of location

(2) 01 codes (organization and/or intelligence affiliation)

(3) Citizenship

(1) Year of birth (plus or minus a given number of years)

(5) Occupation.

These selecrion criteria may be used singly or in combinations. For example,

a user could obtain a list of all 201 personalities who hase been assigned the

Ol code of XX or codes of XX, XY, or XZ. A 201 personality list could also be

produced of all persons who were born in Germany between the years 1915

and 1920, with the occupation computer specialist, ho are now citizens of the

Uniied States, located in Mexico, and who had been assigned the Ol code AA.

Note however that the listing would contain only those personalities with an

Ol code A1. Those personalities with an Of code other shan AA and those

with no Ol code would be excluded. The requester could however ask that

persons who have not been assigned an OI code also be included. Note also

that when retrieving lists based on occupation, the listing will be only as specific

as the occupation code (Attachment 1). The occupation code for a courier

covers only a documented courier. Some occupation codes cover more than one

occupation. For example, the occupation code CRAF covers those who practice

some trade or manual occupation, i.e, carpenters, bricklayers, painters, mechanics

and electricians. If a list is requested for electricians, all others in this category

will be includer in the printout. These non-standard listings may be sorted

(arranged) according to any, but not more than three, of the following keywords:

(a) Surname .

(b) Civen name

• (c) Date of birth

(d) Country of birth

(e) Citizenship

(f) OI code

(8) Location

26.9

SECRET

---

## Page 14

4-00000

SECRET

DOHB T0.1.1

CHATTER ILL, ANVEX B

IJ November 1974

c. Scheduled Listings

Standard and non-standard listings printed semiannually.

d. Special Listings

in reported pe a of aion a gui, lines produced on a one time baris

e. Request for Listings

All requests for standard or non-standard alphabetical and numerical 201

listings for Headquarters and the field, for changes in periodic listings, and for

information on the 201 machine list system should be made to the component

Records Management Officer.

28.10

SECRET

---

## Page 15

4-00000

SECRET

DOTB 70-1-1

CHISTER III, ANNEX IB

Altachment 2

15 November 1978

AUTOMATIC 201 DOSSIER OPENINCS

Note: 201 files will be opened automatically by IP/A. on the following cate

gories of people.

1.

(ARE)

a Diplomats with rank of third secretary or above.

b. Military attaches and assistant military attaches.

c. Intelligence officers of the Ceneral Intelligence Department (GID).

(Prior to opening of an ARE 201 file, check vith NE/E for correct spelling

of name and additional biographic dala.)

2.

--=—

2. All positively identified members of

Services.

b. Ali positively identified members of the

and

the

Intelligence

Military Intclligence Service

Communist Party officials on national or provincial levels and

officials nf the

Communist Party front organizations. Do not open

unless there is at least a date of birth given.

& All members of the Security Service of the

3. Cuba

Intelligence service employees (DSE, DCI).

2 All

diplomats. C/NE/ISR should be indicated as the originating

office with CI/SP always indicated as the secondary office of interest.

le Slilitary attaches.

c. Assistant military attaches.

& Identified intelligence officers.--

26.15

SECRET

---

## Page 16

4-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER II, ANVEN B

Attachment 2

15 November 1974

5. North Vietnam

All diplomats and NFLSV (PRG) olficials stationed abroad.

6. USSR

a. All Sovicts assigned PCS to an official representational installation, i.e.

embassy, consulate, commercial representation, national airline (Aeroflot)

office, news media office.

D. All ries assigned PCS lo the United Nations in New York, Paris, Geneva,

c. Audio technicians, after coordination with SE desk concerned.

d. Students who will be studying abroad for a full academic ycar at institutions

of higher learning

..

-.:

-••.

28.16

SECRET

---

## Page 17

14-00000

'::

SECRET

-

-i:.1:

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

HANDBOOK NO. 13-7-1

70-1-1

CSAB 42-1-1

CHAPTER M

15 February 1960

.:."

ANNEX B

PERSONALITIES - 201 AND IN NUMBERS

•..

1. A relatively small proportion of the total number of personall-

tles indexed by the CS are of active operational Interest/at any given

point in time. These are normally subjects of extensive reporting and

oh investigation, prospective agents and sources, and members ol

groups and organizations of continuing target interest. Each of these

personalities is assigned either a 201 number or an IDN number.

2. The 201 number serves a dual purpose. It brings the files on

these personalities into the CS records system. A single number,

e-g., 201-123456, is assigned to each person, and a dossier controlled

by this number is established which contains, or has cross referenced

to it, all of the reporting on the incidual's personal history, current

status and prospects. Once the 20l number is assigned, it is used in

future reporting on the individual both as a file number and in place of

other identifying data. Up-to-date machine listings are published

periodically to help field stations and headquarters desks keep book

on those 201 personalities ialling in their particular geographic or

- ftinctional area of interest.

3. It has become apparent that the 201 machine listings should in-

-

.. a file. For grample: A considerable number of stations are concerned

• factions and objectives can be assisted by furnishing all participating

stations up-to-date listings containing information under the control

43

Blas ky

Оп нер.В В СКАДІ

SECRET

---

## Page 18

4-00000

SECRET

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

: HANDBOOK NO. 43-1-Y

70-1-1

CSHB 43-11

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 February 1960

of the Cuban desk on the dramatis personae. In addition to 201 per-

sonalities, such lists should .contain the names and identitying data

of persons who should be kept track of, although they may only be of

tangential interest or on whom there may be little or no data other

than that given in the listing itself.

4. To accommodate this type of requirement in the 201 system,

Identifiable personalities concerring whom enough information is not

yet available to require the opening of a file may be assigned numbers

of the following type but in the same series:

IDN-123457

These are relabeled "201" if a file is opened. IN numbers are car-

ried with 201 numbers in appropriate general or special listings,

where they are identified by the letter "f" in the "Type of Name" col-

umn. IN numbers are not fS file numbers.

5. All 201 code numbers are assigned by RID at headquarters,

elther upon receipt of form 831, or of a field dispatch. Li a dispatch

1s written about a personality not yet in the system, a 201 number 10r

it may be requested simply by writing under headquarters file number

In the dispatch form as follows:

Dispatch Symbol and No.

XYZA-12345

Headquarters File No.

201-

6. IDN numbers are assigned by RID at headquarters upon the

request of stations or desks which are developing special identification

programs within the 201 system. The field receives current notifica-

tion of new 201 openings and -IDN-numbers through the Field Index Card

Service.

SECRET

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SECRET

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

HANDBOOK NO. 13-1-1

70-1-8

CSHB 43-1-*

CHAPTER II, ANNEX B

15 February 1960

7. Stations or branches often are concerned with personalities

not of general CS concern. Files on these may be kept in any desired

order. Should such personalities become of general CS interest,

they must be brought into the 201 system.

45

SECRET

---

