| 104-10224-10004) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
; TOT ET TAL i

i is

es Lacan it

FULL TITLES,

a :

i

INCLUSIVE Lb Mi. thls les ae i
CUSTODIAL GxtT/LoratION: 9 2 }
—— i

ROM: ge yD : A

DEI

LETIONS, TF ANY:

a sssig

" 19-- p20 08 NVWUGH * XASWIR
iris emsbHstsnninnenssis nn doh ne eninHnons Huss aHS0W=HREHEeH54 NESSHSEETSSS#NCIS



SECRET

10 July 1962

£155

tien
raplic Arts iepeaduction
nalysio and Hemearch Sect

4. ratieoty oF

BEG

Er SIONATION

ation of Surp
© contained in
n does not a
tor agency of the
he U.S, Ce

tion
cateal
ity Act of 1947, 22 amend
pt employment ia any other
nt if you are declared eligible fi
tission,

6 Campensation in accordance with the f.

i



To ivme (Lae at MTvay

KIMSEY, Herman Ey

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

Case [1d Location Gi Oilietal Seaton 7 trevion Cole

Ta, Orgenirorion

rol Destgnotlone
55 :

Authentication
Graphic Arts Keproduction Div
anal yata and Mesearch Brauch 1 ts Wasspiogton, D.C.
s

Fiat V7, Position Title 18, Postion No. 1

Om ere 5 +
i {24 10. TECH ips . 92 &.
Fi. Geode & Step 22. Salary Or Rare ]3, $0 [2a Dore C¥ Grade [i5. Pil Ove 38. Aneowee
3 , 10,370 D 0225-100521090

ACTION

i. rgeegtionsl Uesigvetione
DDP/TSD
Authentication
Graphic Arts Reproduction Branch

taaw VY S2a ite

SLCRLT ‘ is



Adan 57

CE ononan
ArSAUAUT HO
ny

co

10 TE.
5-136, 63
DDPITSS
Authenti
Geaphic
Analyaia an
Washington,

fe Ht 68 gessarecray | [J uno EE] waren

92

Y annum

GS-0136, 63-12 $7
BDP/ TSS
Authentication
Graphic Arta Rapeoduction Divisioh
Analysia and Re
Washington, D.

er anwar

Wt wispocesreas

at

(8 Big we:
| elds ok rove |
ts i A et CAI |



et kati the
GFE (at wenney seen AMP fe ayy cea

cern 7 a -
ounces L220 A" Ff Pep
rom conn: fe Opal om FP

RNCL INFCAMLI ON CoAD

wont stares: Sigal
le !

we CI

PERS

Tec onant



MR. HERMAN E, KIMSE
‘ Washington, D.C,
1 TECH AIDS

Y

24 January 1957

DT

BY 92

BY 92 GS-13

Two years coll, - No degree

Japanese - alight

'43-Military Service
44-'$5-McCloud River Lor, Co., Brakeman, $1.10 p/h
'44-'48-U.S, Foreat Service, © :
litary Service

Pp Administrator

Appt. - 23 Mar 1953-Tech Projects Off, GS-9

Reassign-13 Sept 1953, Technologist, TES/GARD, GS-9
Promot-9 May 1954-Technolozist, TSS/
Reasa-27 Feb 1955-10 Tech Aids, TSS/GA
Promot-19 Jun 1955-10 Tech Aids, TSS/GARD, GS-12

JOSEPH FY MARZEN
Acting Chief, TSS/GARD



ae : G-3467
10 January 1956 .

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, TSS Administrative Staff

SUBJECT : Request for Promotion - Herman E, Kimsey

1, It ie requested that Herman E, Kimsey be promoted from
GS-12 to GS-13. Mr, Kimsey has been in grade for over 18 months,
Mr, Kimsey has been Chief of the A&R Section of GARD for over
22 months. During this time he has exhibited ability in conducting
and managing the activities of his branch. Mr. Kimsey is a
Questioned Documents Analyst and is well-fitted to perform the
duties required of the AUR Branch,

: 2. It is recommended that Mr. Kimgcy be promoted to

GS-13.
i, Bite
4 fA
iE F MARZEN
‘Acting Chief, 2SS/GARD
Distribution:
> Addressee
1 - TSS/SRB (a
1 - TSS/GARD/file ed

1 - TSS/GARD/Chrono



SECRET

{hen Fitted tay

op/P
PERSONNEL DATA SHEET

NAME: KINSEY, - Hernan Fy AGE: 49 years DATE:
STATION : PRIMARY CAREER
D/P UNIT: DESIGNATION :

PRESENT GRADE: 7; PRESENT T/O SLOT

PROPOGED CRADE:”, NUMBER AND GRADE:
CIA TRAINING:
PROPOSED T/O SLOT
NUMBER AND GRADE:
EDICATION: tuo yeors collere » no cezree

LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY

ASSESSED:

DATE: TYPE OF POSITION:

EXPERIENCE PRIOR TO CIA (oxcluding 280-033) :
‘GL = 1b3 E

P1610 p/h
Loninistrator

27 Mey Lys
oT

ty 92

cone

BY 92
C8912

RESULTS:

SUMMARY -OF eee Hupeins ASSIGNMENTS: eee PREVIOUS GRADES AND DATES:

fept 23 Na eck: roject
2 ment 13. cept 1983 2, Tay
otin gy

CONCURRENCES ;

NDED BY:
eEECM, JR,
S/R eB

Ghiet, TSS

RECOMMENDATION OF CAREER SERY ICE
énelysia and

BORED:

SECRET
oh 59-85

tris time has exhibited

Kips



nation and fill in separation data

a) Toate on aunty

AIDS BY 92011

70hO per ennun
Services Starr

6S-0136.02-10 S59l0 ver unum
SL Services Starr

18 oncanirarionay
Dusienationt

ivetion Division Graphic ar

huthenti i
tron Divieton |
areh Branch |

| wennovntas

oF AbROING. [20, LEGAL fas,
mini Sheibonrs

i fF Se2G1 5-09 | wectsneseny | Ceumey Cjenoves
|_w "cane | stare: i
21. STANOARG PORNO REMARKS ae |

}
{
2 cleamanas
i
ars
nee



g
é
2

j REQUESTING OFFICE: Fill in items 1 through 12 ond A through D except 68 and 7 unless o:!
ficable, abtain resignation anil fill in separation data on reverse,
2, nits - fe D9FE oF monn Oy maui eet

1916 |

snitealis, and

Vince
wer

rosea tit
we

I
“anny eee amo | csnnn36ss3-12 85SL0 per annum

i
os

. na
br 2

P/Technical Services Staff
| Graphic Arta Repro
Analyuis and ilesearch Dranch
ehington, Dec.

ease a

pourri

mise Instructed,

on Divioion



Tpttgar 90 aching nears
ATAUIME Cipecity whether apmsintment, pect

rs
OUTST BY 93

Tis.

WMOLOGIST = BY.

k= ShO

uiscal Services Staff
pho, icovoduction Uly
ote ranch,

¥
GS—-1390,01-9 35188

Hh mEAaEeRTERE

|
; .
i [PF oranweras

wernt |

FEOLES

TO SALARY

avers
fit TaN UGC MISO
)— |Cleameo Cjerovo
[ stare:

[a sianeKRO Foti w Reta
a) ier tdls 7
al iy = )

ee on
{ BReiwinr ow com |
pec

i i

F. APPROWED BY
iaareaa



Ai rtorane
PRI”
0. arrrovess
ME TECH TROJECTS OF BY 256-9 MOLOGIST IY B-9
ies Z sib
-1390-9 S060 %$~1390.01-9 25060
babftechr habeas TT DbP/Tecinical Services Start
beecntesrteerocnetton eee | Bekins hic Arts ke: roduction Div
Offices of the Unie. ; ’ Analysis & kesearch branch

lnsintmeten DL,
Co] ine

[A wtUNAG (Ose ror

We

ington Ds Cy
7] ocramtwcara,

| signaturar
Fitter
1
Chats
LEGAL WisieENCE

ne ey

Xoo.

Tr SIANGARD 1614 wo TAMAS



“REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

REQUESIING OFFICE: Fill in items 1 through 12 ond A Through D except 68 ond. 7 unless otherer:
able, oblain resignation and fill in separation data on reverse.
sndtuineriey (" brie or pate

Libis.

Tiiteas cr petion rnatarto.
RM AIURAEL Spey whether opprintens

Keasalennent

TCH PROJECTS OFF | BY 256-9

| G5-1390-9 35060

i
Wr/technicnl Services Stall |. oscar "
Graphic Arte Reproduction Div Giants ”
Office of the Chief " |
Waohington D. Ce .

N wrangssartes

Lyme = iad susetuo

as Sl pes

lo

wane | Wiwanes



SECRE:
SECURITY Freewatign

ENTRANCE ON DUTY NOTICE

“ied 9 Bodo.

tect os

ie PRIS WGENC) sURIET TO INE TIP SF
AS OUIN MAE A Pagt oF THC Pi

ERRMAN EDWARD

(haste! Te. vor Tit ave Ganol

Wari ON

22 Merch 1953

Co trisssewaenr

Sears crear

An

FARES VecTste Wedical oe Dthay Dist aeTONTT

{ote

“re

LEA METION: ORIGIN ANS GUAT (WHITE) To TTR NO 3 ROT

ONNTE OFFICE

FOmt a. Pen ate
woe 8? BI-AM8 PREVIOUS CoITIONS te at usta

SECRET

NK) 10 PERSON, FOLDER

Ss


CONFIDENTIAL

REPCRT OF INTERVIEW

eo - ie dees
B

T CrtgensHIF Ube Ae pOTRTOT
ee 4

Fetany aueeesteD

Tree tee

EGUCATION [scwoous, DLoeT:

HILITARY OCCUPATION

a Ta
Get - "13 - CPD — bohi pnd om Dt
V98 = 0°99 © ETE LIC m Lee PF frend, ye

DAAC AGREES CEL
mii :

Oot

PO ng ac,
4 ,

Tom 10, 7
sanigs, 37-007 OMF IDEN TIAL



TANBGARE Secs 7 z : z
5 ar

* fof 7 “Se

LES

wwe Tb betint US en ce ctrl
Jey i ; 2
ag I a

gg Mee gee tie Dosh SE taney
; Pog fe

Biers)

ORES Sa ne oo SEESSERnOcunEuenensuneysneSNEESEe) - :


source

REPORT OF INTERVIEW oo
/ tyye? Ege

Br Cawet nore TOR BRANCH arte

Citidinpwle Jinoe scaureeed
ica g au Cekisr

Cer)

Toeties C#PEAIENCE (estan? ane pusrone)

PainciPac CIWIutaw EUPERTEMCE [wate OccUETTOR, TPHCIDL PEITUN, ACCOMPLIGAMENT, GLEETIVE OFFER)

FUP UERCE



ANDIDATE MUST NOT SEE TAIS PAGE

Uaravowene

poe
rare 4 Div at aT Gntzg,
ALS mm akin PL wl tiara -

eee ptt ecs . Yeentk; Levee - ented
cal a Geo

ay @ geod paw ae « ghggeag Se.
Ae mae dotechew cae ame weer ao
Rk fl Bie vind laa!” of. dong Atonig :

onal negfootian ‘i

Bf pes DP ARR me Agel Dasaad F,

Brine LOL kad *

Wor ivation
TmUTiArive,

eta
Paatiiny tow

orerrart
PRESEN. v8



Clout River Luzber Co, HeCioud, Calis : an, Brakozan (intormittenbly)

! Mtury Service, US Amy, Sgt - Intolli sstoned Officer

19395 1940; 1945-46 Dojt of Agriculture, US Forest Survieo, Calif = Forwat Cunrds Camp
Suporintendant.
1946-49; 1950-53 Hilstary Service, US Arsy} CIC, M/Sgt = Instructor USA; Special Agent
in charge of Dacuzent Laboratory, Japan; Spoctal Agent, Conbat CIC
Teaa, derea; Inctrustor & Chtof, Investigative Laboratory, USA.
7

ferrrerrrerecriirss
High school graduate
Various Kilitary Schools

Vonseate vaaveine

1955 lion-clerical Basle Typing

fC AnaltReadranch
*

13 ! u
+ (Tech Aids) 01246,63 | 22, 4 PTS, aun 7s 0/0, Anais Res
i €156,63 f ined
tee tee Tech 397 CL = tbised

|
|

acertt PROP LE



Giromie roe ted Patt vos vipat

LOLS from Chiof, NEN fer excollent work on Report G-1L5 pertorsac by
"ndorsed by Chisf, GAtt/T33
4o1.125% from the field, ccnveyed by tho Carvor Kanagenont Officer, 235 for

officsency in rendering support to an operation.

PROFILE oe



]eartorne Bomiau huwhen

[61855

DOP /TSD/AUTHIGARS

FiFe ae wiront

tating numa whigh Laat deseribe
duty. All emalezeos,

with supervieaty e

Te Unsaiisloctory Ouratonding

jae

Supervises AUR Section
“personnel

BPEcIric DUTY HO. ?

~:Quéstioned Document Analysis

Tracie OuT¥ none
Liaison with other Government
Questionod Document Labs.

SECTION € EVALUATION O

Toke into account oxersining about the emplayen whieh

Actiaa, prodvet

your knowledge of
Statement which me

arrand pusstion
Bortea vice Iyeaster

Hormones of specilie
Sortalents. Cored on



Subject continuas to pe

ompiex A&R activiti

nor, His Pldeaaraesi of the tWernical i
Ip to iagure a continuation of worx flow | :

o

technical data related to his‘ficid of endeavor’
sorves ag an ald'in the presentations of his humorous oral briofing

i his ability to absorb and re

i
Ono apparent weakaess, which he continues to retain, is in his work
relations with teehnical perso: ho hay a tendency to drift from main topte
subjects, which, while thoy may bo informative ,

under discussion to unreisted
decreases not only tho Subjact!s productive capability, but, also that of the

technical personnel.

ons 4, B,C, 0 and E of this Report,

SIGNATURE OF ANiPLSTCE : :
ee ee KEG Fast, =

BY SUPERVIsOR
ip This REPORT mas NOT DLL EnGwh TO EMMLOVER, OVE ERPUARATION

WonTns CUPLOvER As OREN
ORDER MY SUPKRVISION

a6

WF HERON NOT ouING WADE AT 1rd Fimky GIVE NU ADO,
[ [estar wean win cant 90 ave

: Tomo Coveu unbem ny tuhenvinion Luna Tuan wo ane

otmen Ginestinn an
‘oaTe, ae Torriciac titck or Surcuviaow TrvPep one m1 Tune
31 January 1961 DG/PSD/GARB/ | J

WIG OFFICIAL

en

(SOuo nave eiven Fuid EUPLOVEG SOOGE ine baw evaLUA?
Tinsuca nave Given Tait eurLOvee a nano ETS VUTON
TU BOULO NAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A COsEN LV au ATION ee

‘ [reESSST GOOG Found EvatuaTiond yaw ROT IoFPISiGMTLY PamITAN WIT THE EUPUSTOUN PEAT ORSSRED =|

vm@ OFFICIAL.

‘Comments OF ARV

Dare [ornenr race OF Reviweina OFF ICIAS

TSD/GARE

SECRET

ol,

31 January 1961 | og



thew

fa

STA. O98, TORS?

set ween Vet
ACE COMMISION

APPLICATION FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYMENT.

1, Rind of postion applied for, oF name of eeaminatinn

‘Anamaneement Nu.

DO NOT WRITE IN THIS RLOC:

S708

5

tart
pale cee
we T
1. Options for which you with to be considered (i luted fe veemiuation pu | Bien Fovered Regi
oe isl eat:
et | Eamon
st

77 Flacels) of empiiryment appind tor (Gulp aed Sia)

me (Fini middle, warden, if op, Tart)

APPLICATION NO.

3700 Mace. Ave., N. W, Washington,
lor c/o W. S. Line’

Shact

Lapel of voting tanidence (Siete)

Dictrict of Columbia

9. Height without thoes 10, Weight
200 lbs.

D.C

Ape Reviewed
App Arpeored

Steet tc
os Ti Merite saive
Ei] Mate CJ remate oO

Maned

(DO NOY WRITE IN THIS SPACE

(nd, widewed, diverted)

V3. Bieshplace (City and State, or [arviga country)

Ta ten Jon Fiona dan pear V5. Social Secusity Number

-—Meinley County, Yeu iextca ——

ra
x

and 0b tile

ANNOUNCEMENT NO,

ep 4) (GS-14 slot)

f service ln that grade
"12 Feb, 1957

[December 22,2935 1956 | 10 lu750.

1a hase even been emplayed by the Federal Government, indicate love

3-13, Intelligence Officer (Section Chict)

To 7
20 September 1
A}

17, AVAIADITITY INIHMATION

Anicale and

you wrepe temporeiy appolnninent? (A

0 her apporin flve Ono

A Lrwese grade oF pay you
wilt were

1 ma. ar he

’ Pee
or ande_OPETT

a7 vefntal of tempore
Indicwe by

(2) 410 « mnths

E40 12 mooie

© Wil pou sceepe hat shan ullsume ermploy evar (len Goa 40 hours

poset Glin C1] Ne oO

oral

Ty, Ate vou willing to travel?

Cloves fF] rewenty

E Wil you sccepe employment: In Washingom, DEP

Eve [] No _Osnide US? EE} Yes C] No

LEV 9" Hine locations:

B. Wil you scape appovoiment only Ia eanain Reattamn? CJ Ven

Bye

Ta AGIIVE MILITARY STHVIGE ANID VUTIRAN PREFERENCE

A fast Daves, Wrench, and Serial of Service Homies OC AM Aewwe Senne
From To

19 May ria. 3 Kor, 1943

29 iene 1908 oo Paes T

Branch of Service

4983 U. 3, fry

Serial ot Service Number

RA 39090108

it Nave you ever been divchatged ftanm the stewed 15%
Cl ve tein ducts in tm 397 [Eo

Sunder other han honarible condom?

"Be you chim 3:point prelerence bared oo warume miliary WOwe?

Oven

campaign?

Bo vim chins hopane perience based ba what dang proce
Cl ves (compte ond attsd Sndind Form 19)

ne

a you thm 10 point preereace? [oy Yoo

Lo Peterrue Cisin” 19 Cl Composite

THUS SYACE POR USF OF APO!

1 Ghaasioon 10 hat been saribed ©
fy Union Koenrabie tomiwents

VETEAN PREFERENCE ALLOWED: [9 poia C1 tomer Cosnp

ING OFFICER ONLY
the cuucherge cerubeate sod/or other pect mAh shose

CO) now

loser topeir

‘Saeoure and cle [Ase

TE Daw

fe ctatmied aed complrie wad atsa:® Standard Fars 1 ~Verrun

Sanne [sane



the direction and adzinistration of the branch operatt:

1962 to’ Frecent - Assocdated as a technical consultant vith Security Ascoctates,
Ines, Washington, D. C., specializing in commercial and industrial security,

1953 to 1962 ~ Intelligence-with U. S. Government, Central Intelligence Agency,
GS-13, G11,415. As Chief of a emall branch of highly specislized analyste, I
exereiécd'a wide variety of talents and was responsible for the following:
ectersined the course
monitored and super=
ed technical analyses

‘Of action for further research effort within the bran
vised a program of ‘special personnel assescment; evalus:

‘and their velationship to specific cases; advised and consulted with members of

Zenior Staff couponents of CIA; ‘delivered numerous technical briefings to beth
U. 3G. and foreign police and intelligence services; initiated and raintained
Projecta carried out, by private organizations such as universities, private
consultants, and private research corporations. During the ebove period, T
trained and briefed muicrous othera engaged in police aid intelligence work.

Z also initiated and developed four technical systens currently is operation
on @ World-wide basis within CIA and-wrote numerous articles for an intelli.
gence periodical, In January 1962, CIA presentedze with one of the largest
individual Monetary Suggestion Avunds ever Given by that agency.



Ferman Blvard Kimsoy

bb

TI supenvrsto

Tir

Queationed Doo

December 11, 1916

(Continued)

Participated in establishing document analysis facilities in foreign governments
and present olans call for continuation of this TDY consulting and advisory

work.

Per request from Training, pericdically briefs Fore4gn Intelligence Services and
Agency personnel, These briefings cover general capabilities of the Section and
are intended to inform the student. of the question document problem,

EIVED:

The Section Chief receives technical requests directly from the customers
and advises them and the Branch Chief on the technical problems, personnel, and

“other requirencnts for taking determinations. Staff and Branch Chiefs catablish

guides on administrative matters. Review of accomplishzents can only be made in
the light of the customers application’of: evaltation results. Decisions required’
as a result of Section work are usually "Eyes Only" for customers application in
offices of. Senior Staffs of the major components in the Agency. The recommen-
dations for participation in setting technical standards for mechanical and per=
connel identification methods or in financing auch:activity would be evaluated on
the basis of the incumbent's evaluation of potential benefits to Agency technical

services to intélligence efforts.

QUALIFICATIONS REQUIRED:

2, Qualifications for this position will be written in the preliminary Quali-
fication Standatds developed for the GS-1397.01, Document Analyst title, up-
graded by Civil Service Commission Hearing, to GS-14, 1958,



j Clinical Psychologists. Initiated inter-agen:
. facilities and indices’ of characteristics of yayer and writing materials,

ierman Hward Kinscy December 11, 1916

I. DUPERS AND RESPON:

fae analysis ang Research Section 4e responoible for advisory, develop-
rental an@ cervice wort in the field of @iestioned Document fnalyyis in’ support of
overt and covert activities cf the Agency. Tats insludes technical tenting and ro=
search into handwriting and Cocunent evaluation or authentication,

‘The Section Chief directs the acai: of projects, studies developments
in scientific. fields supporting authentication vorz, advines Agency officials on the
current and long range carstiiitica in authentication or evaluation of docunonts-and
Prepares. recommendations for direction of the program. :

Speesfically: .

: i, the Section Chief, under the policy direction of Staff Chief, and
adzinistratively reporting to Branch Chief, yrovidea administrative and technical
Supervicien to Questioned: Docuzent Analysts in the Cection and continually inoures
thot their technical competence is raintaine*. The Section Chief reviews requeste
for analyais of documents end contents, estatlishes priorities for use of Gection
Personnel and suggests available external faciiities for analysis or rescarch.

2, Studies developments in Analysis ani evaluation of documents and their
Contents as done by other Federal Agencies (P21, Post Office, Treasury, Ineurance
Corporations, Private Practitioners in the “eztioned Document Analysis Pield and
collaboration on use of technical

3. Makes review of recommendations of Document Analysts, Consultants, and
Contract Bxployees engaged in analytical and projective otudies, determines courses
of action for additional research, confers with case officers and program leadera on

‘the availability of additional data, tize lic‘té, operational potentials, ete», to
develop edditional facts of problems to be expluye2 or to make final recemendations
gn the contents, validity, possible origination and processing of docunonte cubject

to study. ~

45 advisor and consultant to =aJor component program officials,
ordtative material on the potential cf identification involving docu-
Rents and ctner physical items, makes perietic evaluations of case history recorda
and provides other technical documentation service as may be required,

. (Continued on Page 2)



Ai al

Z

the Amay's Counter
tes consisted of
sctat CIC team in Korea;
enlloted Chie? of

ef of Special Pro-
5 thio period, I

ene other. Further,
in the baste CIC school,
or

a Special
© grade of Master Sargeant.
scew'ity natures member ef a ¢.

- & the basic Cie
e CIs Center, and enii:
Jecto ‘technical 1 » Far dast Command
coeauthored two text tecks fer the CIC school and re
I oxperdenced over 2,000 lecture hours ag an instructs:
and lived and worked three years in two foreign count

L945 to 19'G - Lela the position of Camp Superintendert cf a 100 man forest
ccnp engaged in tizter disease control, U, S. Forest Service, California.

1946 to 1653 = We
Tatelligeace Corp
investigating eri
two assicanenta
the Technical Ls

19h1 to 19h3 = Military Service, U. S. Amy, Intelligerce NCO, MOS 631, Combat

Intelligence,
1939 to 190 - Forest Gand, U. S. Forest Service, California

1935 to 1939 - Lumber Industry, California
Additional Informatica upon request.



qr

Bsed

cachusetts
“hon WG, D. Cs 20016
sone ¥EAeral 646400 ,

RESUME

ues
WS = Married - lio Children

Fanestion
a=. Gruatar School ~ Oregon & California
db -.Juntor Hich Gchool - Orezon & California
¢ = llth School = Oregon & California

d ~ College Level GED (USAFI) 1948

Special School and Training Courses

rice school for Fire Cor
Natdonal Forest, “California; 1939 and az:

b= U. S. Army Chemical Warfare School for
Loutofana, 19!2

¢ =U, S, Forest Corvice School for #ire Cor’

Forest, California, 19h6.

U. . Forest school for Timber Discase Contrsi (Zlister Aunt), Kasth

Rational Forest, California, 19!

» Amy Counter Intelligence Corp School for Special Agmts, Fort Holabird,

aryland, 1946 and 19/7.

Instructor Guidance Course, U, S, CIC Sekect, Fort Holabird, Maryland, 1947

and again in 1952.

“i end Prevention, Shasta +
a fo 1940,
sore, Canp Claiborne,

a.

4% Prevention, Shasta National

&
1

cy
.

+ with Security Associates,
Ine., Wachington, D. C., apecializing in comercial and industrial security.

tral Intelligence Agency,
7 Bpechalized analysts, I
ie for the following:

tons; determined the course
j} monitored and ouper=
watel technical analyses
ent consulted with membera of
to both
itiated and maintained

ne universities, private

ing the above period, T

ice and intelligence work.
currently in operation -

on a voridewide basis within CIA and wrote mmeros articles for an intelli-
pence periodical. In January 1962, CIA presented me with one of the largest
individual Monetary Suzgestion Awards ever 2 ty that Agency.

1953 to 1962 - Intelligence with UW S. Goverr:
GS-13, 312,415. Ao Chie? of a eral branch of +
exercised a wide variety of talenta and was

the direction end atiiniatration of the bra:

vised a projran of apectal feruonnel anseat
and their relationship to specific ca
Sentor Staff ecnpononts of UL delivered nize



PLEASE BE SURE TO.2¢.4.) ATTACHED INSTRUCTIONS BEAORE COMPLETING ITEIA 19

19 PES OAPU A (Sart wath meee PODENT pesto |

o™

[Nowbar wf bad J oaviniees pou Fup

May inguity Me made of yout persert emplover reacting your character, quanwremy wad favre el wpenme mt?

Ting tite we pane

Pe pees
Nene and address of employer (arm myvwnetre, a7

Wesson he wenting to leave

Dates of ewploynne (monk, or? Tact tale of pean

153 TN gen, 22 [intel ltgerre Seales 2 }

Tnninsivon Grade Pane of reper
i ae Vedberal werner) eed

ret, | 3-32 Step 4
Name pnd achicres of employer (Arm, epesemem, a7. 5
Central Intelligence Ages a : x
| guj £ Strect, Ne Ve, 3 : 1
Tevon for waving Rete Lio:

[ise ee panes Nomten anf cul oF engiaiers fou pepe

fold:

From. 29 Notte.
Nileey or earnings

Seaning 8900.00

IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL FAFGRIENCE BLOCKS USE STANDASO FOSM $7.8 OF Bissex SHEETS
SEE INSTRUCTION $RLET esauuiaaiee |



t

ATTACH SUPPLEMENTAL SHEETS O% FORMS HERE |
' ©. ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS €627:47LT AND FULLY i
Jo srry geaunear H

et rarker, | R Swe her i

|

I

Ute |

PUTS Cree i

othera; wrote |

i

H

Te Fame rd focatinm wl Tost high wchoned eremderd
sLoul High School

Vestas | Osener
2. Cael pndonte college vabinee sie tis

d

Ta Sate maton RA od way oe aed Calg wok
Colles, Level GD CLiT) 19! H
ie Coacrs toads, yrarvaal, Armed Fors vo bawtooh
Wie pave dane
Inf. Div.o o 1 June _19k:3
a M ‘1 1947; Instructors]: |

(or nb the name and loratlon-ul school, dusy puseded,

Pree

RHLAnD Ta ye

eof the aunt te
emer of supersiness tn

Li tneee perroas
KNOWN of soar gasimavines and worse fa the peasiana bat he tue tb



et made a Pat ot this appt
taf fosmins nad oaths of mnterriyn Gare gemplty ites af Poa wit
Pmemtasibep oe init. thee Fevtrnnen Sat)

34 Rave you any physical handicap, chen cee

bner gener 28. 7
in freed hy the US Ey § 1 ereminations of wxepsing

Me Rave now ever
tot ate of a

Foe append i
tRimpensares 207 ou

ant pushority?
Whore porn Boh

seged by any few
hey were dnunateed ne pou mente Hovteved sh

{Yi Toop omits 11) Trathe sentation Re SSe sed
Nhuy.” Ail ober iouidente muse Be sostoenh fre

ehieb rensteed ia a tet by dev court or hy summery, spertsl, oF

SAWate In the miliary erriee sere you eee ereied
growed Court martial! aed

C1) date, C20 charge 13) place, (4) tase tafaring

reatse_of.tud eysa,—men_thde waa |
On} st, T_returned to the came joo _
ivdon_the. sane supervisor brakemaa_on.
diesel locomotive

ih ahert gout name, dive of bank, and fem:

WL 1980-1L;_Kerss
Vissoelj fanans

ATTENTION: READ THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH CAREFULLY BEFORE
SIGNING THIS APPLICATION

A alte oF dithonost answer to any avertion in this upplication may be grounds tor ‘ating you ineligible for Federal

employment, of for dismissing you otter uppomiment, and may be punsshabie by fine or inprisenment (U.S, Code,

Tatte 18, See. 1601], All statements mode liv the oppliatior are subject to investigation, intluding © chock of your

Asgerpants, police records, and terme: emyluyers. Ail information will be considered in deter

fimous tor Fedora! empioymunt,

CERTIFICATION

nt CmreaSitts aud siesta th bet of aay Mmwnindye and bint wad ore donde

CURTIIY chat att of he statammeany made oe 08 ep
open

Speen tr



Stanpasp tone 57
rents et
US Glen weet Commsyron

SATION OR FEDERAL EMPLGYMENT

SAddrew (Nombre Avsch Goin Zone, Money

ewe
Comp. Tin

4

One |
oy
Pent

Oo

i

ona. |

DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE

AVANTE

oes}

Prine |

Lead pay ye TB. WIL yoru w cna tenperaty appeatnineat?
Jet abet ejprnimeetey

HIEITANY SINVICE AND VLLTRAN PANT RIAVT

Pot All Actne Senne
ranch of Sere

Tato ducharge

D1 ¥en Heme deal

M4 48d allah Standard Lar 13, "$ scrow

“Hts SAGE TOM USE OF ADA TING THTTEDR ONLY

‘eestine 24 bi AM Un coher pra stich showy

Tonner 0 ase

Tone

i



SEERA

FREASE BE SURE TO REAC ATTACHED INSTRUCTIONS BEFORE COMPLETING ITEM 19

PE ANPURUINGE haat wath veer PRIMENT aeursee aed werd hay

chara yuniriticss enh mond ed emplenmanr Vex fan

May inguin, Re mae oe rue preent eoephiaee regantieg

“Vstes of enpeemen leew ward [rene

le of prantion [ Namter and brad st ensue you super

Ta peceeae nee

iE Seerbymene ony 6 tains [RX

[Nomar and hing of emnicpen wow supenied

Salary oe eatoange
Saning $5,060.00
x
Name and ables of ew
Central Intelis
2430
Resnon

cote

dhtet,. Perso:

wi

sd aeetioa ass
irene ekdainaked

of emplovers pou vapid
nptodan

Dot busines ow

fem 29 Koes
Siary of esningy

Surting § OOOO ee” annun
Fin) $2300.00 oe

‘Name vod allie at eagle
Investigative Ov

lew of imrordiaty tapennae
+ Douzherty, iyo,
add. unknown (Last auperviser)

8, _2ocly

ances. ool:

ac dab chiar,

1F YOU NEED ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE BLOCKS USE STANDARD FORM 57-A OR BLANK SHEETS
SEE INSTRUCTION SHEET



4

5

7

rd Kinsey Decenter 12, 1916

15 April 1945 ~ 1 October 1946 caxp Superintenddnt 100 exployees, laborera

$2694 per annua "
$3022 per annun SP.7 Yreka, California U, 5, Foreat Service

U.S. Forest Service, Yreka, Callfornia art London, % USFS, Yareka, California
a \

Enlist in Counter Intelligence Corps, U. 8, Amy

Supervised 100-zan forest camp for the purpose of controlling timber discase.

5 November 1943 - 15 April 1945 Laborer. tione

$0.90 per hour
$1.10 per hour Unknown McCloud, California Luster ,

McCloud River Lumber Company, McCloud, calffornia- Janes Rertert, McCloud, cali,
Retwmn to the United Stotes Forest Service, |

Operated lumber carrier and brukeran on enall diesel locanotive.
19 May 19h] to 5 November 1943 sergeant yos 631 up to 14 Inteliigence Analysta

Intelligence nico
Combat Intelligence

$21.00 der month Sergeant Continental Limits of United ‘Sates U.S. Arny
$75.00 per month Supervisor - Unknown
U.S. anay

Honorable Discharge

Supervised 8-2 fection in Brigade KQ for the Purpose of voliection and evaluation

ef information on the subject Of encmy military operation:

1 May 1939 to 10 My 1941 - Forest Guard © tone
$100 per month Unknown McCloud, California U.S, Forest Service

United States Forest Service Farl Sullaway, MeCloud, Galtfornta

°

McCloud, California
Milisted in the U.S, Army under draft requirezent but not yet called for service,

Prevention arid Suppression of forest fires,

January 1935 to my 1939 laborer

Laborer in lumber © oil industry,



icatdon
Grommar School + Orex
= Junior HL hool =
- High School - Oregon

Til g:

Louisiana, 1942

¢.- U.S, Porest Service School for ¥

ab School for
ifatdonal Forest, Calif
e - U.S. Army Counter Int:
Maryland, 96 UhT,

and again in 195)

ical. Packyround
1562 to Pr
Ines, vashiy

qv

ton, D. C., 971

1953 to 1962 ~ Intelligences «
GS-13, $11,515. As Chier «.

ereised a vide varie
¢ directic

vised a prog
and their relatic
entor Sta components of CIA;
Hes S. and foreten 2

Instructor Guidance Course, U. &

© research corpo:

ntdon,

tora, Camp Claihorne,
re Control % Prevention, Shasts fatdonal
(2lister fust), Kamath

for Special fgmts, Fort Holadt

Fort Holabird, Maryland, 19k7

tart with Security Assoc ta
421 and industrial security.

monitored and super-
; evaluated technical a

2 r maintained
zations such as Dulane need



unter
sted of
team iin Korea;
2 gel; enlisted Chie? of

At the Ci¢ Center, amt enlisted Chier of Special Sros
y ry (CIC), 1 tis period, I

Xt books for the CLC school and rewrote one other. Further,
2,000 lecture hours as an instructor in the baste CIC school
versed three years in two roreign countries.

Jects Tech:
cownuthore.
I experience
and Lived

19k5 to OWE -
camp ehgaged in tinker disease control, U.

eld the position of Canp Superint
+ Forest

AHL te IDh3 ~ Military Service, U. 5, Army, Intelligence KCO, IS 631, Combat

Intelligence.

1939 to 1940 ~ Forest Guaré, U. 5. Forest Service, Culifornia

1935 to 19)

rv Indwitry, California

Additional Intormetion upon request.



Herman Edvard Kimoey December 11, a

1. DUTISS AnD RESPousrATLTTES
DUCLIS AND RESPONSIBILITIES

The analysis and Reeearch Section to Tesponoible for advioory, drzelops
mental and service work. in the field of Questioned Document Analyois "in support of
overt and covert activities er the agency, ‘his includes technical testing and ree
search into handwriting and document evaluation or authentications

Tho Section Chief dtrecta the asstgnmenta of projecta, studies develoymenta
Ste fdelda oupporting authentication work, advices Agency officials on the

in-sctents

current and long range capabilities in authontication or evaluctic, or doc:menta and

Prepares, recommendations for direction of the programs yo
Specifically: ae

1. -The Section Chief, under the policy direction .Of Staff Chief, ana
adninistratively reporting to Eranch Chief, provides administrative and tectnical
supervision to Questioned’ Documnt. Analysts in the Cection and continually taeures
that their technical competence io vaintained, . the Section Chief reviews
for analyais of documents and contents, estublis! Priorities for use of :
PerSoninel and suggests available oxternal facilities for analysis or resea:

2, Studies developments tn Analysts “and evaluation of documents an4 their
Contents a8 done by other Federal Agencies (FEI, Fost Office, Treasury, Instance
Corporations, Private Practitionera 4a the Questioned Document Analyola fiel4 end
Glinteal Poychologista.. Initiated inter-agency collaboration on wa, of tecmtcal

facilities and indices of characteriutics of Paper and writing materiale.

3. takes review of recommendations of Document Analysts, Conaultarte, and
Contract Bmployees engaged in analytical and projective studies, determines 2rtses
fre ttton for additional revearch, confery with case officers wad program leviers on
qhe avallability of additional data, time lintte, operational Potentials, ete., to
develop additional facta of problema to be euployel or to mike final recommetations
on the contents, validity, possible origination and Procesoing of documents subject

to study,

4.0. As advisor and consultant to major component Program offictals,
Provides authoritative material on the potential of Adentification involving doous
Renta ard other physieul items, makes pertodte evaluations of case history records
and providea other technical documentation eervise ae ray be required,

(Continued on Page 2)



Kerman Favard Kinsey

Decerber 11, 1916

A, 15 Apral 1945 = 2 Cetoter 1946 — Camp Superintendent 00 am. eyees, laborera

5.

6.

7.

42694 per annum
43021 per annum SP-7

U. S. Forest Service, Yreka, California art London, $ USTS, Yereka, California

Yreka, California us. Forest Service

Enlist in Counter Intelltgence Corps, Us 3, Army
SupeFvioed 1o0-man forest camp for the Purpose of contrelizss timber disease,

5 November 1943 - 15 April 19h5 Laborer None

9.90 per hour : :
10 per hour Unknown MeCloud,. California Lumber

*Cloud River Lunter company, MeCloud, caldfornia- James Herbert. MeClowl, culir,
Return to the United States Forest Service,

Grerated lunter carrier and brakenan on emul diesel locomstive.

15 May 1941 to 5 tioverter 1943 Sergeant Mos 631 up to 2% Ite22Asence Analynte

Intelligence NCO
Combat Intelligence

421.00 per month scrscant Continental Limite of.Unitea states u, S. Army
#75400 per month Supervisor ~ Unknown
U. 8, Amy :

Honorable Discharge

Eupervised 8-2 Section in Brigade HQ for the purpose of collect:
Gf Anformtion on the subject of eneny military operations.

1 Way 1939 to 10 may 1942 ~ Forest Guard tone
2100 per month — Unknovn McCloud, California U, S, Forest sesrice

and evaluation

United States Forest Service Bar) Sullavay, McCloud, California
YeCloud, California if

Enlisted in the U, S, army under draft requirement but not yet called for service,

Prevention and Suppression of forest tires.

8, January 1935 to May 1939 Laborer

Laborer in limber odl industry.



Herman Edward Kimsey December 11, 1916

Questioned Document Analynt (Continuea)

b Participated in establishing document analysis facilities tn foreign governments
and present plang call for continuation of this Ty conoulting and advisory .

work,

Per request trom Training, pericdtcally brierg Poreten Intelligence Services and
Agency porsonnel, thege bristings cover general nyoeiittiea Of the Section and
@re intended to inform the atulent of the question docunent Problem,

Ir SUPERVISION Ri EIVED:
RECEIVED:

The Section Chier recetyeg technical requests Grectly from the customers
and advises them and the Eranch Chier on the technical Drovlens, Personnel, and
other requirements for pay ‘ing determinations, ctare and Eranch chiery establish
guides on administrative actera, Reviey or acccul 1 ohmenta ean only be mde in
the light of the Cuutomere avylteation of evaluation results, Beedoiona required
93 @ result of Section work ara ubually “Eyes Only" for Customers Spplication in

sanace? Of Sentor Starrs of eeee® an the Agency. ‘Tae recommen=
dations for partietpat, t Standards for mechanical-and-per-

fonnel identificaty, o uch activity vould be evaluated on
the busia of the tneunt satial benefits to. Asency technical
services to intel) to.

Tit QUALIFICATIONS REQUTR =D:

Qualdtications for this Yeattion vill be vrttten tn the preliminary Quars.
Fieation Standatag developzed for the 5-1397.01, Dooument Analyst title, up.
eraded by Cty Service Crmmtssion Hearing, to CS-1k, 1958,



ATTACH SUPPLEMENTAL SHEETS OR FORMS HERE
© ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS CORRECTLY AND FULLY

Be SICAL QUALICN IONS AND 51

F

einene [DV

mk

7
ver

atended,

chenteal Var} Gi + Div.school, = Camp Clathe: une 1943
Counter Intelligence Corps Taste Course, vort iolah: a 9 Instructore.
so conned, BE. walobtind, ty :

2 LOWEN THANE

the ue NOP REATIN Te Yor ANE WHO HAVE
om fot wind yin ate applying. Ais a tepeat mates vb bufeevinats lated vex

BUSINIAS OM HOME ADORED
in, Coat, and State



ANSwHT

SN paonW te

vied
hath son

vet heen 4 mntiter af any fotosess of duamestic te
‘oh government st the Un

tener farsne
Seutesihy onernatuntonnal mesa?

Wy pone amine te 2h andlan 29 above Ve she om a tpbarate het attached tn and seule a part of ths appliatian the marie of all
toh ave ‘auocnateas, maremrats, fraupt or vemlonaion af fosur ad dain of mrcaieehie tate vseiphte deta of pane alee,
Uavarn md mabe ann eiplansivin vow deint Mending rons memiqribif on netsnin (han Patvaihen Shai}

et bad twhetca
Wy pour gasnan We TH 29,00 Vr aban i

Mose yrs cnet boon hare hy the US. Cail Serving Cumnnwrn boves ing tae
eur anit A Van ane dais of eed trains fur ash dibariat hit #9)

anne oot acepeing cred) versie apperntment? Uf

lias ca paattvane) with whom pow Iie oF |

You" give in Hm 0) for EACH anh rate (1) full mames (1) prnnt adie: (3) rilatmomibip: 14) Sapaciment ot
ip hch emplored. and 8) bind of appacatment :

Tanner ui

Tiny varirement | 7

Mew hare (Lite) yen fe ame tenant:
Dra of emplaren, apprarimate date, und reasons |

being informed thee gent «

Y rows ancien tn SV. 90 Se abse iv "V0." sive dite  Uieen $7, Vow the nase and
tm th case, This information thonld agsee with wnstemenn made im Huon Vrcbaparione

you ever been arrested, taken int eustnls, bell fut ievestigatingy ot
(in ay ta elie son pad a tice of $80
Iuatbitay. AML sli incisents inust be incluted, even theaegh

LZ y angtiune feat
ely bot

rer authoity?
sppered helote yan
eral bo eee

Mh, While ia the military senice sere you ever

rested for an eerae nhc h 0

iy deck const of by summary, special, oF

satloity ae tape f vant 0 courbnartoal sand (NE actin haben

YW sour aniseer to $7 06 40 0 "Ven." ive detail in Mem Sh, hosing (or eats imseods (1) date, C2) tharee, (3) place, (4) law enforsing

OL APATE TOK DILATED ANSWTRS 10 OF

135021;.Kores, Military Service.

‘ATTENTION: READ THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH CAREFULLY BEFORE
SIGNING THIS APPLICATION

A false oF dishonest answer to any quostion in this application may bo grounds for rating you inoligible for Federal
omployment, or for dismissing you after oppointment, and may bo punishable by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Codo,
Title 18, See. 1001). All stotementi made in the apalication are subject to investigation, including o check of your
Angerprints, police records, and former employers. All information will be considered in determining your presont
finess for Faderal smploymont.

CERTIFICATION

eveets made in thir appli awa are ue, compte

LCUCTIFY that atl of che
fen ond tate

nd conten

the bev of ony Anowledge and betisf and re made

Siqnsncte wf applicant



RESUME

Hernan Edward Kimsey 1
3700 Massachusetts Ave., N.W, af
Washington, D.C. 20016 ‘
Telephone: FEderal 8-6400

FERSONAL

Ago: 46
Marital Statust Married, no children.

EDUCATION

Gramar School - Oregon and California
Junior High School - Orogon and California
Righ School = Oregon and California
College Level GED (USAFI) 1948
Special Schools’ and Training Coursest
1, U.S, Forest Sorvice School for Fire Control arid Prevention, Shasta,
National Forest, California; 1939 and again in 1940,
2, U.S. Army Chomical Warfare School fer Instructors, Camp Claiborne,
Louisiana, 1942,
3..U.S. Forest Service School fer Fire Control and Prevention, Shasta,
National Forest, California, 1995.
4, U.S. Forest School for Tiaber Disease Control(Blicter Rust) Klamath
‘National Forest, California, 1985,
5: US. Army Counter Intelligence Corp School for Special Agents, Fort. -
Holabird, Maryland, 1946 and 1947,
6s Instructor Guidance Course, U.S, Army CIC School, Fort Holabird,
Maryland, 1947 and again’ in 1952.

EMPIRICAL BACKGROUND

Fron 1962 to present, I have been associated, as a technical consultant,
with Security Associates, Inc, Washingten, D.C. specializing in comer-
edal and industrial security, i

Fron 1953 to 1962, I was an Intelligence Officor with tha U, S. Governnont,
Contral Intelligence Agency (Annual Salary $11,415, GS-13). As Chief of a ;
gmail branch of highly specialized analysts,-I exorcised a wide variety of 5
talents and was responsible for: the direction and administration of the

branch operations; determined the course of action for further research effort
within the branch; monitored and supervised a program of special personnel
assessment; evaluated technical analyses and their relationship to speci-

fic cases; advised and consulted with Senior Staff components of CIAy

delivered nurerous technical briofings to toth U.S, and foreign police

and intelligence services; initiated and maintained liaison with other

“US. Government componentaj activated and directed research projects

carried out by private organizationa such ag universities, private cone
sultants, and private research corporations, During the above period, T
trained and briefed numeroua other agencies engaged in police and intele
Ligence, i



‘tion on a worlde

eobasis within CIA and wrote numerous articvos foe an
intelligence. periodteal. In January 1962, C2h Presented mo. with one of
jhe largoot individual Monetary Suggestion Averte ovor given’ by that
Agency, ed

From 1946 to 1953, I worked as a Spectal Arent(W05~1301) in the Army's
Counter Intelligence Corp in the zrade of Master/Sorgeant, My duties
consioted of investigating crimes of security naturo; member of a combat
CIC team if Korea; two assignnonts as an instructor at the basic CIC Schools
enlisted Chiof of the Technical Laboratory at the CIC Center, and enlisted
Chiof of Special Projects Technical Laboratory(CIC), Far East Command,
During this -period, I co-authored two textbooks for the CIC School and
Tewrote one other. Further, I.experienced over 2,000 lecture hours as an
instructor in the basic CIC School and lived and worked three yeara in.

two foreign countries,

1945-1946 T hold. the position of Camp Superintendent of a 100-man forest
camp engaged in timber disease control, .5. Paver Service, California,
1941-1943 Military Service, U.S. Army, Intelligence NCO, HOS 631, Combat
Intelligence, é :
1939-1940 Forest Guard, U.3, Forest Service, California

1935-1939 Lumber Industry, California

Additional information upon request -



RESGE

I Pergonal =
Age 46 + Married - Mo Chileren.
It Educactorn -

+ Sregen & Calif
rel CED (USAFL} 1948.
TIL Special schools aué Training Courses -

@~ U. S. Poreat Service school for Pire Control and Prevontioa, Shasta,
Natiuual Forest, Calivornta: 1934 and again ta 1949. °
D- U.S. Any Chesleal Warfare School for Instructors, Camp Claiborne,
Loulstana, 1942,
¢- U.S. Forest Service Scheol for ?ire Control & Pravontion, Shasta,
Rational Porest Califernia, 1645.
d- U.S. Forest School er Disease Contcol (Blister Rust) Klamath
National Forect, Caliiornta, 1546.
U. 8. Army Counter Intelligence Corp School for Special Agonts, Fort
Molabird, Maryland, 1546 and 1947.
Instructor Guidarce Course, U. 5. Aray CLC School, Port Holabird,
taryland - 1947 ard again fn 1952, :
TV Eaptrical Background =
Frou 1362 to prosect, I have beon associated, a2 a technical consultant,
with Sceurtty Aseoctates, Inc., Yauhingtom, %. C. epecfalizing in cumerctal and
industrial ecurity. E
Prez 1953 to 1952, I vas an. Tntellizence Officer vith U. §. Covernnent,
Central Intelligence Agency (An Salary - $11,415 + 65-13). Av Chiel.of a omibl
branch of lightly spectalteed atial: Texerctsed a vide vartety of talents and vas
responsible for: the direction and udointscrarion of the branch operations, ceter=
Bined the courre of action tex further reneazch effort within the branch; monitored
and supervised a program of special personnel assessuent; evaluated technical
analyacs and their relationship tr spectitc cases; advised and consulted with
menbers of Senier Staff conponents of CIA; delivered suercus technical brief inas
to both U. 3. aud foreign poiter and intelligence cervices; initiated and maintainod
Liaasen viti other U.S. Government components; activated and directed research
Projocto- carried wut by private organtzattoca such as Universities, private con-
Gultants, aud private research corporations. During the akeve period, I trainad
and briefed the’ pollce and intelitgense agencies of sore then 50 foreign countries
and actually traveled and workes 18 6 icreton countries. 1 alao indedated and
developed four technical oyctens currentiy in operation on a world-wide baais within
CIA and wrvte wmcrous articles for an intelligence periodical. In Janvary 1962,
CLA presauted we with cue of the Lergest indivicual Monetary Suggestion Avarda syer
Given by chat agency.
Fron 1946 to 1953, 1 worked aa a Special Agent (05-1901) Ln the Amy's
Counter Intelligence Corp tn the grade of Mazter/Sergeant. My dutica conaieted
of Anvestizacing crimes of security nature; wecber uf a coshat CIC team in Korea;
two gsdiuawnts as an instructor at the baske CIC School; enlisted Chief of tho
Technical Laboratory at the Clc¢ Couter, and enlisted Chis! of Spectal Projects
Technical Luberatory (CIC), Far Fast Cosnand. During thio period, 1 co-authored
to taxt beoke for the CIC Scuoul and rewrote one other. Purther, I sxporteneed
over 2,003 lecture be-es eg an inutructar in the bast- CIC School and Lived and
Worked tiitee yuars i -vo fercign countries.
LMS-1MG TL hald che poultien of Cavp Superintendent of @ 1W0-nan foroat
caup engaced tu tiuber disease control, U. 5. Ferast Service, Caltiuruta.
124-1955 Uklitary Gervica, U. S. Army, Latellizence NCO, HOS 631, Combat
Intelligence.
1239-1959 Forest Guard, U. 5. forest Services, Caltfornta.
1935-1939 Le or Industry, Caliternia.
Additional {niormation uyer request.



Hervan BOuon) Kaasay Tov. 11, 1916
MANA = Wk (Seotion Chic) = pase 2.

Lishing

7 + Seetloa Chior Participated Ja cate
docunmt analyoits facilits dn foreign govam: oT
% plany call for contJaation of this Dy oo:
vwAsory worl,

oO, Pex roquest fron Training, ection chiet
perlodically briefs Porsign Intell. Servicen and Aganey por
soanei.. Those briefings cover general capibllitios of the
Section and-are intondsé to infonn the studeat of the ques-
tioned dooment problen.

I & OU PICU NVIDs

The Section Chic? recoives technical requonts
Olrectiy from custerwrs and advisea them and the Dsaneh chier
on the technieal problems, personnel, and other rm Arenont:
for maving dotormtnitions., start and Branch Chief's enteab 4:
muléce on edninintrative matters, Review of accep iiolnt
ean caly be made in the light of the customers app.
uation results. Decisions required us a romuli of Saction

work are usually "Eyes Only" Poy cusvauers applicelion in
a in the Agency.

offices. of Senior Stats of the major componai
The racomendations for participation in setting toahnical
Standarde for mechanical and peraoinol identification methods
or in finanetag quch activity would be evaluated on tho basia
of tan lnembont's evaluation of potential benerht te Agency
technical services to Aintelligonce efforts.

TIT, QALEPROATICNS FRoume:

Qualifteationa Lor thia position will be written in
the meoliminary Qinlifieation Standards developed for the
GS~ 1377.01, Doewment Analyst title, upsraced by Cavill Service
Casiizaion Hearing, to 5-14, 1953, :



SECRET

=
q
g
2
2
c
io)
Fd

andtl¢ With Care

H

REPRODUCTION

1433S

ttl nena wt at actin! mitt tinh,

ana Nim itd is canst.



14-0000

tle, Grade &

- {TH
ron S hond Peete

fot

(OP Interviewer

(Ineludt:

NE Cove: rT & Securtty Data)
— ?

ae

bea

NG J.

1 con bey Cott Fon

tote te 4j omen)

wens oy preceent n

bingere, embed

“L cane in lste
eo 13/14 lever

nde quelift.
«835 been infer

23 azsistant

had bee: bas



1400000

“S-E-C-R-E-?
(when Filled In)



1400000

wee ReB-P

jOfice & Extession 7
ET
Aah
she

Ly fe Med | Cel,
a OGG a aaa wee

Cover & Se
Y ged Chae. | ais ah, en ord 4mm S

Pte Kak f ete, Loe wad he Ken auth, oe . Cat & —~ vets he Goa da ah. Lo,
CEM AP WA, Laer 0D tbe» Fics. Gt hiafh

; fi oA ERY v C0 ach wih, Lo b
2 el 4 did, ipl Za thes Lam lt “GE feck for die. LOL CAL, |
cable -

hie TAs

SECRET



SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF ESTABLISHMENT
OF MILITARY COVER BACKSTOP

BLOCK &
1 cere sows x

stcacr

Tear carr

creer


iQ EXCESS LWOP

PAY STATUS AT END UF WAEPINY PER TOD

IN LXOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERTOD

20M, BMY, RR of oo
EE Seka Ss

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION
osu oan)

ad .
—
» IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FROVISTONS OF Pe Le 86-568 AND DCE MEMO DATED
1 AUGUST 19565 SeLagy IS ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS EFFECTIVE 10 JULY 19606
sD Nave SERIAL ORGN = GR=ST OLD. SALARY SALARY

S KIMSEY HERMAN & 161555 44 49 GS-13. 3 $104,370 $125155
$

“st EMMETT De £CHOLS
DIRECTOR CE PERSONNEL

SECRE
, avn LEO RD ws
te wer Toc aaranre onan
y Ruvsey 4 Ee | DOP /TSS
!
z NEW SALARY RATE

OLD SALARY RATE

coot | or suay K- rect
GS 13] 3 [bloe3?0 | 02 | |
THE OFFICE OF COMPTROLLER =
nena oy wouter EL Unre One AuEEL
t ig

SONNEC

eur

Slavia jos | lo je

JO_BE COMPLETED 8

wor initia OF CuReR

To OE COWPLETED BY T

Ch ne saeraeer

ove Dive

ererererertie) 2 °



nial

Tyee sent ne

161585

CEP/T55 @ i

TiEwe SALARY RATE

57 [es 13

CERTIFICATION

| CERTIFY THAT THE SERVICE AND CONDUCT OF THE ABOVE NA/ED E/APLOYEE ARE SATISFACTORY.

“ [rerea ca ruintea, nawe oF Surcnvison fey _, OF surERnR

OSEPY EF Ywarziw | 10/747
ae PERIOD(C STEP INCREASE CERTIFICATION alle
a

SECRET PERSONNEL FOLDER

s
a } own

1 ESF, SORIANO, i on Yo aneate

161555 KIMSEY HERMAN E | OoPsTSs v-20

apr

OL SALARY RATE B REN SALARY WATE
13] 1 3 99696 for lO [57 Gs 13 | 2 $195130 08 | lo 58

COMPTROLLER

TO Bz COMPLETED BY THE OFMICE O
ED eter anor # wuwoEa oF

omrnvrerrecrers ipa oy

ISE OF PERSONNEL

TO BE COMPLETED BY TH

7 PAOWCETEO SALARY RAVE Ano UrvEcTIVE LTE er
cece | air | suai wo [ne

Te. AUinERTICATION

STE RIE Fy

PERIOOIC STEP INCREASE « AUTHENTICATION
5606 SECRET PERSONNEL FOLDER, L_ |



=) 2 leg

o
SECRET

a

GENERAL SCHEDULE SALARY INCREASE RETROACTIVELY EFFECTIVE

12 JATARY 1658 AUTHORIZED AY Py be 85, = 462 ano ocr

DIRECTIVE. SALARY AS OF 15 JUNE 1958, ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS

NAME SERTAL GRADE-STEP OLD Salary NEW SALARY
KIMSEY HERMAN E 161555. GS-13-1 { 3 99890
STEWART

75/ DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL

SECRET

foal


aaT wiGBlEy

Y_HERMAN E

3 (alicoar oF TanorwtaT
| 3276 1064 100

ation oF onic staow "

REGULAR

7 deaminiicenn Wisieal

OOP TSO
AUTHENTICATION

GRAPHIC ARTS REPROLUCTION BRANCH
ANALYSIS ANU RESEARCH SECTION WASH., D. C.

Vi Petia Hine iz WF ro%n

COCUMENT TECH CH O65u

oat ee ere re

Ty GATEC SEAMiCE GinATIOn

We eioeiiNatiee Datiat

EGOT tet iecit| 199220)

dds alias ttf

AINATED IN ACCORDANCE WITH PROVISIGHS OF CIA REGULATION 20-27,
SEPARATICN OF SURPLUS PERSONNEL, PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR

OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE CONTAINED IN SECTION 102 (C) OF THE NATIONAL
eee ate ALT OF 1947, AS AMENDED, THIS TERMINATION LOES NOT AFFECT

YOUR RIGHT TG SEEK OR ACCEPT EMPLOYMENT "IN ANY OTHER DEPARTMENT OR
AGENCY GF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT 1F YGU ARE LECLARED ELIGIBCE FOR SUCH
COMMISSION.

MENT EY THI

=

‘i

H i
SIGHATURE OR OTIICR AUTHENTICATION

AUTHORIZED MAXIMUM SEPARATION COMPENSATION !N ACCORD} ANCE WITH Prte———~—
PROVISICRS OF CiA REGULATION 26-32, SEPARATION Compe SATIPESTED

rosw
en

Use Previous SECHET



SECRET

865 Filly tad

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

a

]9. Nase (oaFiew Avaaioy

IMSEY HERMAN &

| esas

Vogal Auk

a OSC Reine
Yn

50 USCA 403 yu

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT
¥9. Location OF Oficial

Cation

cece) vtation Code

REPROOUCTION DIV
NALYSIS ANO RESEARCH BRANCH [YASHey Os Cy

17. Poritign Tile T8. Portion No, 7 ]20- Occna, Server
O TECH A10S looy2 Ics, 0136.63

34. ae Salary Or Rate [83.8 96. Apwrapriation Hunts

$10370 S225 1605 1000

ACTION

Serurotvon Data

87 Nears CY Acton Cede [28 UH Dato [P2 Thow Oi Unployee
Me. Da. Vr
REASS | SNNENT 56/5 115. 60 |} Recuar
PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

‘seal Dotignations ‘Code [38 Location OF Othclal Seanen ] ation Code

UTHENT SATION
SRAPHIC ARTS REPRODUCTION BRANCH

WALYSTS ANO RESEARCH SECTION NaS WASH, De 75013

33 Dee ESET Pasion Te I Sore [37 Occup. Seite
eat F

Heid 2g “pocuenr TECH cat Ics 1397.01

38. Grose & Nee /59 Selony Or Rare [40 SH iE ‘on Rlunbor

1 Me. Da.
133 10370 0 oz. 10" 5
fa. Remo

oy



i piimin INTELLIGENCE AGES Sy

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION ore

Tal Gie are dannanrar way peor Toate oF amin | Nasea ew atiON nD TORE N
161553 11 Dec 1936 h February 1954,

( actlom affecting your tmployrn nt:
@-errecrive Date [ ‘GAL SERVICE OR OFWEN LEEPL AUTHOR

20 Fed 1957 © UBCA 463 J

7 peaitiow tine To Wech Alas py-d@
}GB-0136 63-13 $3990.00 per emu

2 pence, seares,
Gaabe iatany’

poe/Iss

Authentication

Graphic Arte Reproduction Dtvieion
Amiynie and Rescarch Bach |

11, weaoavanrens
a Yaghingtoa, D.C.

Ha riponveree Lene fz

Tr sumici 16 e
AUNT Act

—Xea___

i] paoveo"

Crunce maretoseer sine:
ow

Director of Persmwet 2” ed

pleeorNa

4. PERSONNEL FoubER Coby ve

BER uf 7



vier wha area

PAY

sastay_[octariar xo TGA fia ta
1 Previous
netinat

8 tiew
eat

9. Pay inte
red

70. Remarkss

L rateté steinerece C] Fey winatnany C] omer
ie gues Ps eerie [Ye

=
6 tc S$ AT fan a “7705.
TWO" Gate Pal Srerete ware coving WOE

a I PEK ie 5

PAY ROLL CHANGE SLIP—PERSONNEL COPY



i)
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ’

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION rns

7 Toa
|
Kinzoy Vive IAs | | VY Jun 1555

herean

ie eos qeanesesaeeateaueeceeaeeeeeeetaneae
j [enor cco io [0 era avevnee ov omnen LeaAe AOTHORNT
i Promotion has dua 1955 50 ka LO} ¥ "
miaieaeeniantees anne ais _ ae

10 Cech Aida) ui-y2

HiteG2—-

$70L0.00 per annus

DOA $910.90 por anmer| y srovce, sroves BoeO1H 63-12
Saeed

Lbr/Technical Services Stgff

re grammer | uthontLeation deal
© Graphic Arts’ Reproduction LAviaton|
Analysis and Kesearch Branch

tt mtapauanress
beahington, Us C.
' orraeronaias neous oar cope CE oerenrwena
i = on Tow novo
H
i
:
i
H pete asabeseteser (ae
i 21 es, This acticn 1s subfect to all applicable Inws, 3
{ gubject to investigation und upproval by tho United States Civil Service Commiosion,
H The action may te corrected or canceled Sf not {n accordance with all roquirementa.
i ‘
i
4

Uirector of sereuem!

gee

4. PERSONNEL FQLDES COPY jaa corscan veneer ee
1 aN fess



sTanrane rots 50 9 raat

,
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

©. srevice, seaits,
Guaoe, dauany

10, oRcAM:ZATIOWAL
OUclewarions

11. meapouaarr:

rio COoeenetern, (mmm aco

ies Ceuamco O) mone

va ore |

Barton | 30. ult-absipiwcr |

ject to ull applicuble Ines, False, and ropulationn aes nay be
Subloct to investigation and approval by the United States Civil Gerview Gomlasion
The action may bo corrected er canceled tf not in aveor with all requirements.

PH BEBE avin anne TT

SONNEL, FOLDER COPY
Wars



stagoase row.

19 nanny ¢ }

eon. CENTRAS, INTELLIGENCE

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

He, Merman F, Kinsey

{)
AGENCY

25 Feb 1955

3 NATURE OF ACTION wast

Resosicnzent

= [Fen Sravice oe orn vasa noTwORITY

27 Feb USS | 50 heck Od J

FRO

To"

o rosirion nice ]

© sevice, sums,
GuAOe. SALARY

10. oncamizarionat,
DESIGNATIONS.

AQUANTCAS

corte CL nerestenran

12, Fines 08 oFere.

T.C. (Tech Aids)
SS-0196.63-11 £5!

(BY 92-11

(0 per arn

mP/Technical Services Staf
apoie Arts keproduction Pivist
fealysio and ieaearch Branch

Sashington, D.Cs

Popree

Ce oersrrwenra

To vetthaws PREremenct

REEAEATION RETION

Ebert

33. [ae | 17 aPpnopaiation

38 june
$-CSIS-2O
mee 2

30. Ucar RESIDENCE
| Cecio CF exoveo

“aoias This aetton 13 subjuct to ull applicwble laws.
Subject to investigation and Gpproval by tho United s
The action may be corrected or canceled Lf not in as.

1 stares
NOt |
9S, and regulations and iat bo

ates Civil Service Commission.
setdance with all roquirements.



ENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC,

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION va
[EONS RTT 5 Gouin Gua tlomnan @ ate

T Way 195h

WR PSSE te with WAL OM GAAS SAE ITN AND ORO

Mr, Homma E. Kinsey jib Dee 36 |

T jo notify. i
ih asd ovens i a a aT
Prowtion 50 UBCA 403 y
ren
93-9
* | 3-1290.01e9 $5285.00 per aume | 83-2390.01-11 $5540.00 per anmm
F aces
wee/Technical Bervices staft
Graphic Arte Reproduction Div.
” eames Acalyoie & Research Branch
i
Vs. HEADQUARTERS i 2 De Co
nrmpowoen | [nae [PE] ormsnrweta,

BAEGAL Ri
Cesta Cs toveo

nie,
aie jates;

TW BRE “cr apne,
EM Sadie
j cerioat

EMTRARCE PrRSODMANCE RATING vio
Boputy Assistant Director wr



merce -ENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENL

NOTIFICATION OF. PERSONNEL ACTION

LA Bee, 1926 | 2) Ayr. 190%
Srantow ment: :

treet SEO OTR LEAL

£5 Apr. 1958 | 50 USCA bo3 J

H :
G8-1390-9 He gemvee wees, G31990.01-9 $5195.00 per emma

Gunoe ant
hop ras

oft Grophic Arts Repratuction Diy,
Office of the Chior " CiSentioss — Austysis & Reasearch Brack

|
|

fashingten, D.C.

1, Weapguaaree

i
7] DEPARTMENTAL, [ee riewos

s
Ereean aia

(te $.2515-20 meatitency

[Ae lie, arenopriation
Sex [race

~~ Se
u.wsams: This action is subject to all applicatle laws, rules. a

subjoct to lavestigation and approval by the United States Civil Service Comsiesion.
Tho action gay bo corrected or canceled {f not in accomianco with all requirescats.

eri
FOLDER COPY



ae a Tye

FD oi creme CHP Tosa

Hisioata tm no. eves



i Frannie: wore &

ji avec ow OHNE R LEAL

: B09 [13 Sopt. 1953 Schedule 46.116 (09

TECH PROINCTS OFFT BY 256-9
GS 1390-9 $3000.00 por annum a dager ura

rup/Tss i pop/Tss
Grephic Arts Reproduction Div i Qraphic Arts Reproduction Biv
Offico of tha Chief 10. opcanl An OAL Office of the Chiof

GUschATONS

i
t

| Washingtea D.C. Washington D.¢.

Sie ited Eats slieataasee eee

‘frensfer TO Voushered Fumie RCH Unvouchered Fumds

Acting Caie!, Frvcime), Divteian
TRANCE FUROR ATS E vs

ESL Pl nase AN

rs rs
ONNLL FOLDER CORY



14-0000

SORT DOI CTI -

—

(21) Stat? or Bivision (2) Mote TY0 apprewcd iy Ste 3) Bireetive cate of tion de
rat ZD

Gent 3d

Prng Off-Tech Flds

| _|Tachniedian

Tachniedan

ty Taformtion

Set errs erpeerconpiopienmnereypwrrrcene en


Tee ee eee

+ 38 SECRET

Services

a7 ARTS REP. DIY,
tponial-Avobetanas

Oe OF Chie fk,
Miscelanaous-cochaiewes:

[ou

ost off ecaent ay aurmowr eco IW AvSeSzaNCE WITH AGENCY MEOULAT IONS

ATH OOF OFFICE AMO WO SIMIKG arFizuNiT EXECUTED OW

secuarie cueanea ow

Joveeseas aureeweat s1G0eo,

evteaeo ov outer,

2 SECRET



. SECRET

fwhem Fribeod tng

FITNESS KCFURE

Herman

14 rating number which best describes the
in parlosmanes of that duty, All

List vp to sis of the xa
monnat in winch amin
i tupersinary rene

GREY =Mac tw

[re darsiending

areciric DUTY NOs Taatene.
oi nh

ry

|
Supervises AUR Section activities, | Oral Briefings. 5
i aereaeyiee

- i

SPRCIFIC DUT F.mO. 2

Perry preeurie Burt no,
Wo"

Monitoring the writ .

scipic DUTT na. mative wes Gurr no. 6

i
in
f
7 y Glue: I
Questioned Document Analysis. | ote ee aitiagiteeinisntreperta: is
i

Liaison with other Government
Cucetioned Ducument

SECTION C _EVALUK

Yoke inta ocenunt averting ubout th
Burien, produetivity, e224ve8 on job, 600)
rout snowledze of enzicyee’s overall pi
Statement ahich mow ccewiately sellocts hie

Is

1+ Perfarrance in mony impor

22 Partarrnne iaat in'ene oF mare important respects,

meet raquiterante, fran

[Y > Normal degree,

J. Uimited degree

A ata
nce jnenven! 1 | 2) 3

SECRET

Patrons eoetions,



1qeco00

ePT Ok
aitons wade 19 empleyne tor
flogenaat ond For

[SECTION €

Mr, Kimsey possesses a wealth of xnowledge in his techni

skillfully and tactfully utilized, helps to increane the productive c

Section's acti -
This thorough knowledge of AKR activities

briefings in an informative and interesting rans
Subject has been downgraded in Specific Duty #1 from a "4" toa "3". The

basis for the lower rating in this category warrants the following explanation, There

have been numerous and redccuring complainty {rom personnel under hin super

that he does not display a complete respect fur their profeasional ca

weakness his definitely. decteased the morale of the.personncl under his supervision,

Mr. Marzen, Chief, TSD/GARB, hay discussed all areas of weaknesses with the

Ratee and pointed out how they affect the overall work aspects of this section of

TSD/GARB.

ability of b

enables him to precent his oral

SECTION F. = CERTIFICATION AND. COMMENTS
L.

Teartily that Thave seen’
Tsigwatune OF ENPLO

Poare
7 March 1962 H

a

wantns CMPLOVEE nas @EEN
UnGen My SUPL WY ISOn

58

Teron vee

7 March 1962

TE MOULD may Z oe ot a
BEES Pear camance,

[DEARNOT su0GE Tweae evacuations, san Noy burPicienTut PauIAn witn THE

3.

Comins OF REViEwING OFFICIAL

This was not signed by Mr. Kimsey and was not forwarded
in March 1962 a5 Mr. Kimsey was in the process of leaving
as a reeult of the 701 action.

Ae aN SIGNATURE

Torpiciay virue OF atvideima ovrician Trvray)

i re Pe ipigons,
13 February 1963 | chief, TSD/GARP | A Fo harven
; SECRET



i) SECRET :

(onen Filed tn)

EROCOVRE SunIAE NUMBER

awh 4 \ FITNESS REPORT

GS-13
ie én one
DDP/TSD/AUTH/GARB

portant spncifie duties pe
EACH

4 cibie
MUST be tuted on ti

which best dow
rar duty. All amp

ven aupervtend),

| Monitoring the writing of and
| writing technical reports

ECiFic DUTY HO. e

Llaison with other Government
Questioned Document Labs. 5

ENT POSITION

0 - portosmonce of apecilie
ns oc talears, Based on
bua coresponding to the

Peltinant persona
ring the rating period,
level of perlorimance.

1+ Petlormance

[aarina|
2+ Perlormanes [or
3 Berformanca cleurly ma

4- Pertormonce claariy ence

J: Betlormance in evary imperton! respec

4 Perlorisanee in ovary tarnect in ourstondin,

orf Mar

Le

SEG SECTION *h* OW REVERSE

SECRET

BY 45 onsocere ene vicy



ny

ARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE ag
tee demonstrated in cure: ont mole tol Gap tye anovament of hie
0 laymen On BERS :

ie nse warnings Tor devel roger
in, W opproprlote, ratings given v= SECTIONS B, C, ond Dro provide wwe bout oact Pe eratetsing

Steeas wirongthe ond weotn
monk.’ Give tecomae
aponsil

future personnel a

: 1",
Subject continues to perform his duties as Supervisor Bharat
complex A&R activities In a competent manner, His knowledge of the Blennteat
aspects of his Sections! many functions help to insure a continu ation of work flow
and his ability to absorb and retaia technical data related to his ti@ld of ondeavor
presentations of his numerous oral briefings.

serves a's an.aid in the
One apparent weakness, which he continues to retain, is in his work
relations with technical personnel; ke has a tendency to drift from main tople
under discussion to unrelated subjects, which, while they may be informative ,
decreases not only the Subject's productive capability, but, also that of the

technical personnel,

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

SECTION F.

1 v EMPLOYEE

are

31 January 196)

2 BY SUPERVISOR
MONTHS EMPCOvEE mAs BEEN I" THIS REPORT HAS NOY BEEN Snow TO EMPLOTEE,

anne expen eal

UNGER MY SUPERVISION

46 =

civ REASON

[ormen'(srecite):
are OFriciaL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR ae

31 January 1961 DC/TSD/GARB/

3 ; BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
Vfisoce navn owed Tid EuPLOTE

BOUT THE SAME EVALUATION. ,
{WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYER & HIGHER EVALUA’
‘2 Lowen EvaLuaTion,

Tr WOULO NAVE GIVEN THs
VEANNOT JUOGE THESE ©
COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

na a OF REViESiNa OFFICIAL ATURE

[Zee yor
oa the Fi,
Chief, TSD/GARB GEE Mat ZEN

SECRET

foare

31 January 1961



Werloree suniae NUMAE®

161555

ar

Tat Tein) eatiaoiey

KIMSEY, Herman. a 3
fas oF ric Wore sBINiOW OF assiasvENT
[ ssisiesii : bpp/tss/A/GARD

“ CAREER STAPF STATUS «&
WTaerecrsce Ts sae

[reams | oa [selene
Toate wiwont OUE iw 0.7. GREE feesiisy :

_31 January 1960
SECTION B a

List up to six of the most Important apncific duties performed dining me rating reriod. Inuert 1
manner in which employen performs EACH spocifie duty. Corecem cNLY eliectiveness in petlormance of that duly. All employ
mith suo 'y responsibilities MUST be rated on tists obility ve Suter umber uf employeas auperviaed,

1 Unsatisfactory. [2-8 T= Acceptable _4- Competent [5+ Excellent [6 = Superior |? - Outatonding
SPECIFIC OUTY NO. 1 [Rating 3 DUTY NO. 4 RATING
was Nor

Supervises A&R Branch
personnel and activities

Oral Bricfings 4

Grrr
No"

SPECIFIC DUTY NO’, SPECIFIC OUTY NO,

Writing Technical Reports 5

Questioned Document Analysis

GPacinig OUTY NOL? Te OUT TNO, ©

Liaison with other Government
Questioned Document Labs,

SECTION C EVALUATION OF OVERALL PER

Jarytbing about th
‘conduct on job,
iloyne

‘oceuraraly

o
E
eat
at
i
oF
§
é
£
5
Z
5
2
e
3
$
g
a
3
o

2 of specific
ors. Based on
ponding to the

oe hobits,
ploce the rating number in the bos e

z
Le |

[5= Outstanding deyree

ts = sae :

inthe toting bones below, Teck (9
T Limited degree [3

CHARACTERISTICS

GETS THINGS DONE
REAGURCEFUL

ACCEPTS @ESPONSOILITIES a
CAN MAKE OFCISIONS ON HIS OWN WHEN NEZO ARISES
OGES nis 308 BITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT
PFACHLITATES 4MOOTH OPERATION OF MIS OFFICE

nites errec

OTHER (Specitri:

ora 45 coscvers eacvious eorrions. SECRET oy



SECRET

hon Fitted tay
NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE

ane demon . Indicate surgeations mode in emoloyen I
tecommendations foe hy iim, his polenta! or gevelop

ities. Amplily or explain, 99 given In SECTIONS B.C, end Ovo
nel actions.

SECTION E

the boar baste for determining

Subject's thorough technical knowledge of AGR wetlvities

qualifies him as a competent Supervisor. Since the last reporting

period, ho has delegated more responsibilities to personnel under

his supervision, This, in effect, has increased the productive

capabllity of his Branch.

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
BY EMPLOYEE

LTcertity thet

27 January 1960 |

2.

ASREROTORGRGEE DEEN [iP Tid aCPORT WAT NOT bese anon TOENPCS?
Cpe a

st et

Oive —

formen (Spectr:
DATE

OF SUPERVISOR

27 January 1960 | DC/TSS/GARD
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

3.

| MOULD HAVE GIVEN THiS
[1 ¥ouLo Have 6

TaN
nN Fmis EMPLOYEE A miGnEA EVALUATION.
[1 wouco Have Givew nid EupLovee a Lovem EVALUATION. =

oaTe AL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL eer

Pg NO SaWaT URE

27 January 1960 | Chief, TSS/GARD i MEF Aik tag —
SECRET



oa SECRET

when Fitted tat

TuPLOFEn SPRIAL NOUnE®

161555

SECTION A i ~ 7

U_Dee 1916

LO TECH AIDS.

_January 19) (Bee 1957 to Jan 9594
IN OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES

5°

rvtant yoacitie duties z i 1. Winer cating number which beat de
EACH su C jeneae in cerformance of that duty, All emplo
cate ouemtee of omy

re BUTE NOTE

Supervises ARR Branch Personnel Oral Briefing

SPrawie UT? Nor?

Questioned Document Analysis

sre

mearrercry
wo

eieig Buty Nw

Linison with of Monitors graphology program
Document Labs,

ae
+ Perlormence it av9ry fandiag,

DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOYEE,

dS omtovere wae vies ert SECRET w



SECRET

fa laa HARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF Masai JF Suu PERFORMANCE
Stress wrangthe ond westae

ak
‘Anohty oa sept

Subjec
he Phas a thorugh appli
respects this-tends to cuntribute to kis m:
potential of nia personnel by his own level
This creates a situation whereby he has tendenity
he could delegate to his personnel.

avin in that
: Beogy many
{suods the

a team level.
ions which

2 L tapaiiga) s
A Aan seey
weve in that he

is a very competent supervises
able knowledge of t¢

SECTION F

Oire

27 Jan. 1959



SECRET

the eestavee

TIALS.

ois

Wise,

trcrereraed

Caarles J. Ryan O Nerate

oenyrs

408 PERFORMANCE Lygiie

NCL 98 TeArnina i OFneS &

Performance



TR

ston AIR Gi vpye eo sea es
jafpet latnancateittn Rabie) .

srilie aty Cdn nat tate ae sunectvodd) thoes

Hace Une mnt dog
by wate ner for
ts Poe wuneed

DIE Ny te gwecce wane
Pla yee! mind
sietdar level ale

ee tee tetividuela

4 with athe

Hebe. the today beet

reeBelpsgpie sone tat at

Th 90, tate thee “on dit ene

Ne mas be perlueareg tiffesen

Ont be peted aye
wr iont rs
PSVECOPS Aho propa?

AT the kbd ho
ONAL aRLET ING

‘ers IvrERMGA TIONS
PSETARES SCWUARTES

crviva Lee mien?
cuNmCTING srl vaes ANCLICES Duis. fatal Pare TRANSLATRS GERWAN
SRUTING TRO CAL, perrRTs wanes pines DEBRIEFING SUURCES
COMICLING PATERNAL LIAT3ON OPERATES BabI% AIST ons :
rine QNROIVATRS 92 7 VTOP OPPICES — OnIVES TReee
% TAKIG DIcratiog BRUTES Prat erin MAINTAINS AUR COVDE TIONING
COREE DUI EVALUATES SIGNIFICANCE OF DATA

ae SUPrAVISING
Foe ‘some jute, tution aay be
mt “phone operetion, on thee

Pees essaer convaders at mbitables eke

As daetLy Aoteuate de tet PUmrcevanct GF ers foun im vine tt
t tae joes
PF EPLEED ANTONE 1 RMOE ty EME Pres ueuauLe oF

fe bee Coen wang

se

Supervises A&R Branch

Wii e wate se

‘questioned Document Analysis

7
Liatson with other Government
{Questioned Dec. Lave.)

226% the Graphology Program

slapeent on pres

Weise
LIFTIONS: Stee rene 4, particularly thou arian ellect de
Background and yeara of experience with Agency, qualifies subject ag an excellent
technician in all facets of questioned document arziysis, He ia performing an exe
cellent job, monitoring the graphology program. fie constantly strives (oc new

ideas tn his field of endeavor. In presenting ora! briefings and {n job discuesions.
he still retaing the tendency of drifting Irpin the isemnediate topic of discussion.

swenituctueity, vonduct im the p
she fata an sath your fem bon

LIMeTe

m20N MALL ANDe Soe
oat ecaerseatne aurAiCitgtey Cotatengiag 15 gee.

—

: SECRET



SECRET

Cintea
fr ene one

[i Dee 1916

ETOARTE_ OF, PaTgMTigf

fe Leety ar enicn

ee z renee ATs eeesty
Suse b mY THOU OF LONG EEEMLD FSW LARLY AStow ET SN OF MIGHER

Potential



29 ron

SECRET

bien Fitton tes

SG.

TP tomers

and managernent capabilities.

Seti

ject has-technical qualifications but still shows weakness in-administrdtive

TuTURE PLANS,

UIMLM TACTORS, 147iU014G PERSONAL CIRCUS

A>. 10 OE Taal 1952 ACCOUNT IM INDIVIGUAL'S FUTURE ADI GNWENTD

the ele af

This en
Jo Literal by

a aa you ave him on the job,
pply in some degeee to mast people. To
eyaun coveted by this temort

terpret

insert in the box the

cerrasme mumere

Wadi stauss

To iworviouat 19 ay
To totviouat To am
To 1worviguAL_T0 am

Ze what nat ODSERVAD THIBy WEWEA Cam GIVE HO OPimiow 25

APFLt4E TO THE INDIVIDUAL TO tat LEAST PossteLe cteREt
12 imorviouat TO 4 Lia

£0 orgaee
aitoace Oconee
Aevve AVERAGL DeceeE
Gutstanoina otcere

0 wow tuk obscarPtiow

CIES TO He

caramel

ae

Starcutnr

Ba rontat

fremereren

ees 3

I
i
[ae
|

2

Saale [2

Heamowee ean 18 taree

Ye che ce aang erte onan

SECRET



cachet

ERT IFICA

TXT Te LY er ses

ro Santee envens range
ok pre of 0 OW te #1 of respons
Factors other than pro
OURTELE, HE EE incompetent,
ANCE: AL THOLOH we AD MPECITIG GyiDANcE OM HMaINaS. at ETE Pad te
CF ceria ees =

boners! DUTEES sy SUCH AN OUTSEANDING waNngR Tal WE TS CacALCEE BY FER OTMES PLEZONE Gauey 15

coeur ;
Occasionally reveals some area of weakness,

Nea mies SECRET

Performance te


DIFFCTIONS:

State dn the graves
Place the wast ey
be Kate weeformence a
2 For supeevien

fF unimour tent sutins
Voelicctivenesy 4
ee Avo apecitic
fi

eof thin soecit
Vo nut tate an wunereitces those

ORMONDE |
dere adstetes (ae

dotrens

ND alee ete

5

tc performing the

thor eo ataty ot a

Weing rate

1 wy, cate thea on dite:

Wot Juries that might be rated are.

f. Re speeitie, deemtes wo
neal, ag, HAS AND USPS ARES KMOSLEDCE. cocers IsreeReATtONS
Cavine LxcroRss DEVELOS NEW PROGRAS PWIVARES Stu URtES
CONEECTING SAVINASS ANALYTES INDUSTRIAL REPORTS TRANSLATES. GEEwAN
BPITING TROWNTCM, REPORTS WAVEGES FILES. OLORLFFING SOC HCES
COMDECTING BATESNAL LIALSW | OPRUITS. Bano. AUMPS BOOKS
TYPING QMORUINATES HET OER OFFICES porvEs TRICK
TatiNG ptcrartow Barres RrceLarioys WAINTAINS ATR CONDE TEOVENG
SPEAVISING PREPARES CURNESPONDENCE PYALUATES SLGNEFICANCE OF DATA

Jers At advieable, egy cosbined key:

uthee if supervisor cone

tay be broken down even
of 2 radio operotor,

He For some Jone, tut
and phone coeration. in the ¢

f+ secoupetenr ty tet pemoawencd oF Tis Bury ri

PeRFomMs THid Uuty tm ae OUTSTANDING WAWNED

a B+ seeney avcguate IN tee PearoMvANCE OF TONS FOUND IN Yumr Pte INDIVIDUALS MOLOING Arete
Ouse rp rive bute tan sons
RATING 2+ Pearowes tuts outy accertagcy 7+ CHCELS Awronk 1 aNOW In ME PERFORMANCE oF

nuueUR 42 PEetoews Des OUT HN A COMPETENT SAynen tra oury
fees CUNY UN Suow A Pige ante
3.4 DISTINGY Asser oy mig yom

‘Supervises A&R ]
|

jalsénwith other

sare
Government Organizations)
Questioned Documscate

purr aes}

Questioned Document Analysis

Oral Bricfing ia
Sovoee

nowete

Document Analysis (for Repro.)

1 yeneaiwe Bites Se Ow
DIRECTIONS: — St
Knowledge and ability to perform document analysis, questioned documeat
analysis, identification and comparison of handwriting and typewriting, He
Ronotantly strives for new techniquos in hindield of endeavor. Has tendency
to pregent his discussions too indirectly 90 that the importance of the main
topic being discussed often becomes confusi, vague and sornetimes lost,

stfcct developarnt on present jabs

thie

Fengtha oud sesknestes, particu

SUITAQILITY FOR CURRENT JOB IM

Indivisual... aeeductivity. conduct 1¢ the yobs
seand how he (ite ia sith your team, Cont

Jota account heer everything vou bine

# personal cracacter oF Rate, Hteleces ce talent
Pore hia with others cinsng wisniae woth af ale sare Level,

Fs Gtererrter unsurtaguc + me sma ee aeraeatey

POSES BE Tsereryc2000 sot east ACcUP CO mi HPL wan antes eee y see gg

s fo sare: Bigg (OEOTEE BAASe evceack gut aitn no AEMAMESELS SuPFigitvtee OUFATANDIVG 1 ena

1 OF Pet wae Qurragteny as wost reortr e

IMC CaP CmrHE mas Seek ouEat enews

te tet on on
saewtnts oF tar cacayien
tS tet oanaye Taree,

neue



SECRET

foe Fit

mpleting thie teport,

Wleged communication te ye aupersiane,
Finane the potenteal of the emiluves boven
led that vou read the entire ceport lw tars completing ayy
cHloyee hay been untre your sunervisien PIR AT DFAS 90 fAy:

chansed. 11 this is the INITEM. RIDOKT oa the explayce, hawevere te ae
fe the no Later thun todays after the due lets sulicated in ieee wat

We te bs

ru Teraniey

KIMSEY Herman E.
‘m/w eiGn OF ANS tuwwn st

H/Graphic Arts Keproduc

pert erroat out um or Divisiobe. ree

23 December 1956

Orevee rare

in 10. TECH AIDS.
1955 to 24 December 1956

—| ee (Speci ty)

10. Tyee oF #b

(Creed oney Fs So
SECTION

Yo foe Tee eaten

BEST suOKtutnt OF IME ImbivinuAL beiNe

De 7 orricim ThE

Of his grade and tye of assignucnt, vate the emi
in terms of the kind of responsibility encountered

a4 PLernhwaNce Can oh EXPEC ETE

fr Aetaoe awove Me LeveL AT anien caricen
2 wey ecacuca tne « Serisractone prarnwwance Cay BE LAZECTEO
> SC DEOGWESS. QUT NEEDS MOM Hiv BEF7HE HE CaN ME TDAEMED [0 AnzuUE OF ATER RESPONSEMIEI TIES
4 a U4 POW TRAINING IN ASSUMING CREATED MESPONS IOILLTIES,
3 PeOMAOLY ADJUST GUICALY TO WORE SEstoNc/aLE QUITS AIIHOUT SURTUNA tediqinG
Batina 47 MREAUY AGtUMING MOWE HESPONS mALETILG fnam CAPECTED AF Nid Pur SCY Cece
muwata 77 2M TPCI*TIONAL PraSON SHO 1S ONE-C# Taf FEH and SHOULD OL CONSIOL ELD FON LAL? ASEUUETION OF MiGni@

nesPonssatiries

ton the ebility to he w supereiaor? Cathe Ti your

of the Level of supervisory ahilsty thee presen @TlL reach APTER

Tue which comes elavest

Py aupetvive, note yout
column.

DIRECTIONS: Anawcr thie quevt
mosuer is YES, tedicote beluw yo
SUITAILE TRAINIZG. Indicute yo
to expressing your opinian in
rating in the “ectual” cot

eit on abaeeving
ote the eating in the “patents

chenverive @ > DAYE Wa F
Er wariugiic Hee ievelinorvspuad!aeareren
Stuees 7 + SELIEVE Gnotviouae outa we
ae arcieve

OF situation
SOR ty Beis Kino OF SHTeaTiCw.

Feialiste of various bins
vieer)

2. —
1

Coraies (Ruecutive Level)

WU, HS (Part HH) se sawe cae ae wine SECRET

pekraers ter onscr ere

Potential wo



SECRET

1s but shows weakness in administrative and
*
Sao aly

FUTURE PLANS,

ection W.

strative functions

None, except on-the-job traizizg and expertence in the adm
of his branch.

‘KEM ENTO ACCOUNT t% IMUTVIDUAL’S FUTURE ASSIGNMENT:

PMOL twee FACTORS, IMCLUDING PENSONAL CUMOIMS TANCES, To OL

None

SECTION fe
DINPCTIONS: Tht
the words Literally:
the Toft ol each atatenrat
category number stich be

Tnterveet
peoples Te
inaert an the bow the

fe Tae OFscHiPtiom aPBLIES TO Fue

47 GUSERVED Spoils, ENCE CAN GIYE NO OPluiOn AB Foi
tor vious :

SAPPUICS 10 THE tuDieimUAL To THE LUAST PossioLE oecaEe

+ APPLIES To ambiviDuE, “YA LIMITED BECRTE

SAPPLIES Hy tngeerains O17 Sy AVERASE DEGHSE

catrcony muwnca

APONITS To ImOryronnG 1) Me AnDwL AVEMAME BECALE
Aereey Ty smotvtoune “ey OUTSTANDING Uf cut

TaTewtn?

perry

2. can OLE shone ween cece

9 ser mimes coer

: # SECRET



SECRET eZ

. Ctnen Ditbed toy

nagenent. TI weeks ty provides
naddsring the applieatian af

fA aD jak peetaraanee ae an
ST RO i

Comeult cursent admit str ative tnaisacttane sogard

amet,

Dy" Ine AIAN ESTRATIEVE OR PracONNEL OFFICER. ng the on
tal ol Ute tenner

tet tea

Bend the enter tusm heture atten
Wietete and tovlens the wah of the dndewuhen!
Reese, and onsthe-joh ef fertivencee a

stun fue eae than 30 dere, poo
and camp Pelaney trapenesbil ity
(MVS todi vidual has hewn under your
ne of hie eush, 20 thal dm a general wap he bnew:

1 DIE SrtaY ES

ties be lrequent desea

4 bisf “fod bese Le tere

= ___IEES onrionas, mariey iu nor tusy 1 menss Hn

SECTION Tete be titted
(hanna? eats 2. uate on
KIMSEY HERMAN Nl Dec 1916

Thre oF tmrmancé av bury ~ [" Oneice assieaty ty 2 orvistce

25 Maryh 1953 TSS. raphic Arta Kepro Diy

atin oF ‘asyrewuent [100 V8 beta, seeciry stanton re aaa,

Ikra rene

22 Dee 1955

mayen have ote

a. cantre Ura rieatioe

OT

CE beer cxdiwen oy tis”

SECTION FI

To Cdkaeay Poot iON IO Toh Qigke ora’ b3 a
Ctict—Anetysis-and-Heararchticanch/GARD he DEEPLY 1958 cy sacs ase

in pedee al Frequency js

Responsible for technical analyaiz of documents to be reproduced to determine
eriata, techaiques involved, existence of check points; analyzia and
Aof critique on each

special n
comparison of reproducticna and originala and prepara
reproduction, Determination uf authenticity of alledgad original docurnents;
determination of source of origin of analysis, including graphology. Evaluation

and research into new techniques in graphic arts and authentication ar
development of field expedients fur thia activity, Maintenance eee

| maintains
iil ol information relative to questioned document work

SECTION THN
od covered ty thi

READ TUE FNTIDE FOkW BctasY ATTEMPTING To court

ot ken

ST certly that, Goring the Vmttes bait ui the “a
via, nner in whichhe hae perfataed his job ent pravided suggestions endo
andind tom al Rie perluraance ta conesetent

te tttnese repurt Vorned hin Gf hin atiangthe, seabaeee.
selactory, there te ettacned a copy of tha

Wh omy aeatuatoon of see
| amd onthe jon atlects

idan pated,

29 November 1955 |CHARLES TECH, JH, Gated ih, :

ene, are tatiected bp atten
in dine of acthecites

yee i

3s EDt sony GF tre SECRET

1 Onstre

sapiaas

a

tomar sa 372189 fonu



SIATEMNTS,

wornt Ge vice %

Be can espe DEEL STEN ow

WHOS 1H ACTION

Harreareve,

Mo t10N A

O AVALETLG IN HS THINE INS

Se cone tan nee Si vole nue

3. 61D ALONG EE PLOFLE AT ALL
socrac waves.

O. WAR EMI OF mame

10. anOad mut TO rea agEHE TANCE

12. GaN GEE ALONE wie
1A. wrucey son racts,

Hemree towaea CONG

toe Can COME wity LuEQmNe ret
Hy WAS AG STANOARDS. OF
iecourci swat

to. nen Stauinar Cay Qere GETING

20. supes ORrcewat ety

DA. AeCER ES mEGADRS Hare ATH:

Lae avHeES nes Ctoss.
DA MESPONGS BELL TS sort mee Hae

P10 be

tt

ta. ad e1OE wayce oF txFoHWAT ion



Fr CEE OP erm Smut
rape

By. aye Manne.

she carat

He Crm eee te

ents erpun i

tae vain tes wanes

As. ATLL taronura eater cu
j——tetaie,

pare.

ye. oF

40. LENEC TENE am orscussions arte
ASSOCIATES,

de. tweLrurnra picisioys aecauy
Lees oF ey FELL hs

Fa Moun trne oF ontTes.

ay Gavia CREOEN autad cxcoet ts
out.

4a. 14 sicumrty conseieus.

ao. vomaarine,

fa. Wit cae ticnsw 13 consraveriyn

AD. ABLE tO ImFLOPRCE orem

tn aPtRAtion

ae pacnirate

49. OREE WME OyoueRE EYRONE AND

$0. 4 Gane suraviae.

Hroad knowledge of technical aspects of intelligence and counter-intelligence
work, particularly in the authentication field.

wants
Excessive enthusiaam in his own field which causes him
ally; at timea this reaults in an uncenscioua reaction by his Rearers to give infor-
ion he is passing on a lower professional evaluation than is justified,

Caeneseese

SECRET



ae es a

SECRET

~-MAR-RIg4y ———~-—-——--—}

Couvirno Vou wis TapTveMiAN F i
(contact with questioned document profession: no formal traini

Hable, Training in managenient and/or broad operation:

Centinu
field a

ersonnel situstion/work load perm
TE Gia ® Ceewi Nis Tindicats hove general temita, ap
fepUCt hl which have a bearing om effective wily

a
atton ef 1268 perann)

SECTION ¥I

Place "A" in the wovt appeope

Read ait doncriptions before tating.
AI DIREETIONS: Consider only the shill vith which the Ce PERKCTIONS: Based upon shat Ae haw

Person hae perloraed the duties of Kia job ent care and ane anther tndic
person's mttatude toward the ageneys

him accordingly.

COD +. core nor eemvomu cuties apcavarcuvs we 8 I] 8. was an anraconsine aneinuor soeeeo pe
ineoure tent MIR trtertedy eke tue aciner at fat
u onrontont tee

CO) 2 aacey sor onate uy erorenuances at wou i
a5 HAO SPECHT TG wutDance am TAAINIMGs ME COT as Sena Meaarive arti ruor taaey acters

Oetin rales 10 Canuy GUE RIseON3tBICITICS 1RRCG RY RESTRICTIONS. MLOMNUS AunCY AS
court rewtuv, HSInOwARY ST9P UNTIL Mi CaM GET Gow Tid
Prarines uoit oF mis oUTINA ACCIPTADLYY O¢é: orn,
MowALey #uviata Boul ates DF BEagNea3y Teun fo Ave aN UNPAVORABLE ATFE TUDE toR4an
Sinroges ou tins tm a TYPICALLY COMPLTEAT, TH AGENCY. GOTUEHED OY atytin FuaTHAT ONS.
Urrterive waa, MU uit ip test. Cont inur
Arian PLnromaanets CAARIES OUT SAMY OF HES SUS AT TE Tout foeano Tata
AYSeONStAIETTIER EeeErTTOMALLY MEeLe maser ang gene APTI TUE 0
PUnrowes sis OUTED wach Ay QUTETANDING, Aearane orrenea nie sour Tutwn er tte.
Saat TAT WE IY A Qua CID BY FEa ODOR me So feags TO HAST FANGUARLE ATI Tube Team Agence
Rous ada 100 wie Baty HMARES AlCGnanchs Pon ACATALETIONS LMrORED BF
1s THis maiviouae On NFER Quai HF 10 FOH som, I so¥e Senchng fon oince anes fn 1a 088 eae
otnen are) vee UF Yes, RHATY tun in te acuney.

a CXiee Coo (ID 6s eur int ray as ravonaaee arti moe, rowauo tut
Twerty, wiUe raupaaly tnDEAvOR 12 Wane
2 GME IN bur agence
CX) ns an Glnaasrie arnerene to
eerie FeSULL PRUOROLY MLVEH CONSIDER BOmKING

Fide aut tn tue acincy.

vee ta IMDIPFLMeNT
towe tr

0 THE AcrHEY

perton DO DiaberTONSS Coneccive overytning pou buee shout TAT)

Anoaut, baw sould you tate hla on Hanson tw mading your tating. cthill tn job sluthen
clon the job, personal characterlation oF
Al delecte or talente.

and type of
potentiality for assuentivn of qreater cesponesbi lis

lice norenlly indicated ty pevantions

hat ape

TARLE nt swoULG BL SPaeateO.

OF covert surTaBiLEty..mnuie wot wave ace
CEP TED Wie UF L Wag aan maT Lanne NO:

A DARELY ACCEPTAMLE EuPLOVEC,.CLFEmETECY OFLON
AVERAGE aut atte NO wean Honemtey
DUISTAKOING TD WARRINE HIS SEPARATION.

A TYPECAL LwPLOvEE, cE OISPLATS Tn SAME SUITA:

ccc.
= SATESFaCtony Peatonwance Can at EXPECTIONL
Gaaot cam Bt wrcowmt noi.

] 2 1s waning Peowttss. gor wtas woae Tiut i
EXE] 2 1s meaoe ro eet om MEGraNSPOILETHES OF THe

COT} 1 es aeacuca me wecnest omsoe Coe. a smacn PCLT] oer miticy uns
PaUvenT cwacl BIvaRt #HOUO TION TOA nnidieg
NIST wicuun GRADE. BUT Way MELD TRAINING IN

foue aecas
TT] a ATUL PanataLe aouusr auteny ro twe wont BHHTY AS wOst OF Tue PEOPLE T Xnee In the
mt posStace outias or tre nat mronce osace tote,
Tp nts aneaby Pemoneine aT toe cent OF Tae MET SOU wrcoree «was sous ourstinoine
signe ceaot Srntvetns
Ja ANcer rosie prason ano rs ont of te Fee tv CWSUMLY S180N6 Fenton 14 TeAWS oF MIE
a Mlusimtaests av tet sere

e4O tnouL 84 CONSIDERLD FOR RAPID ADVANCE
wnt E

FACEGLAD BY Onty a ree im GUITABILETY fom
ty Tae acescy,

WW SECRET. Sed



insane is
FOIL AUMINT SIHATENE 08 PENSOVIE OPPICEE! Comsat cote
tnd teonantt tal ad then tee

jead the antive farm hetove attenptine ty
The med nf tre anitivedtaat. you hava prewacy peaperashulaty fap seelucting. hit shea stabs
De Rea dagetaetey etrvsteea, PP thee tnderilael has heen under

fused that, Uerawehe

19 nur SerLEYE
Mecne and 6
fant

Do pou etl colt

ewan your
pees Nat ine genera

the persed Ut

7 Toone re
SD-TS ee
& =
1418 OMTtOMAL MALTHON OR NOT THIS FLOWESS 97:

SECTION Veo he 1
(wette

ob hie

lead 17

1 dp,

wae Chaney rats
KIMSEY, Herman

S07 or tareance tw gute fee uence aatoneo 10

23 March 1953 ian a

weno, eteree f

bud [ve eianap comes &

Docenber

“SECTION I) (77 #

NODE Pes

1296.00 | 1 February 1954

Pia pabing tuk Past tnwed to” sik Santas Thiet”

Chief, Analysis & Reasearch Branch
Wet aMGn is austcumers ge teins AL tN
prado Wamenerd staying analyses of documente preliminary to reproduction;
determines necessity for special procurermast

determines existence of check points, depa: fromm normal security printings;
- ma. critique of finished | Condunts questioned document analysis for

operations deaks;
Corducts training in field expedierte off and authen-

tication; conducts briefing in general graphic arts activity, Researches into and
develops new and field reethods for docurn: thentication[ :
Maintains liaison with government and commercial organizations active in fields of
documentation, police sciences, etc.

OF fast arabe

pATTAe TING To COUPLITS ANY ITE

WeAt TMP DDI RE FURY Ri
SECTION Vie

IP of the parsad baveret ty tere tapar

turned has pak and aes Napeetian

Felt Uy altached scape

Tay eealunte
nove int

a epee and
ance during the tepuet period hae b

EK see nee bree a

; Vy ihee. oy Gs Lee veoh etna .

Sate ateaer (Comeer

IT pee
fying Bia ot une

4

Trae rennet 0

Jaces }
Mees Coetiaad oe Tats SECRET

Vie Na 372189



SECRET

et tay

SiTION

AL ame To get ayotsiess
Pomme or vive,

+A G900 REPORTER ce LaNTS.

CAN MADE OCCISIONS OV SIS CON
HEN NCL amESeS,

3 CAUTIOUS Uy ACTION,

amas nrianiee

3. UMEMOTHONAL.

ANALYTE INES TNR ENS.

+ CONSTANTLY SERPVING #38 Ate
ANOMLEOGE AND InEes,

0. GETS ALONG wrtn Pecree ar ALL
SOCIAL UtvEts

WAS SENSE OF Howes.

J ANOMS MHEW TO SEER ASSestance

He cat

+2. CAN GET ALONG etm PeomeE,

12. weuone ron recs

Gers THINGS cone.

| XCEPS ORIENTED TaNAED Uo¥S
tau Goats.

euneeescree.

8. Cay core wi

17. MAS NIGH StaNoAROS oF
Accowrci swat t.

Ve. MAS Stamina can coer eo
2 von rime.

19. WAS anDE mance or inte

SHOWS OBI GNA ity,

+ ACCERIS RESPONSIBILITIES.

AoMIIS Wis EReuas.

AESPONDS BELL Te Suet eN ESTED

Bh UVES oF sPass rio.

SECRET



SECRET

Dieittet te

LoGaN tae oa wis Feet.

coves ut atte soruttons te
Poupuews.

Tew ating 10 aSseceaTes:
sgpame Pus"

tousy winpto.
onssovenr
capanure |

cleae maneing,

COMPLETES ARSIGHMENTS HETHAN
Beceesece tra CIMETS

Cyauares SELe REAL ESTICALLY.

tLe tusameen agouT cUEeEST

. piLieeeare.

| EPPEGHIVE Im DISCUSSIONS WETS
arsociares.

J tupecwents occisions aLeaaas
Liss of oem FECUINGS.

tmoviestéyt OF otwrAs.
enpe a sFUL UNDER PRESSURE

oy secacz syucewent

GIVES CACONT WHERE CREDIT +
cue.

nas onsve.

43 secumi ty Conscrous.

~ vensaTite.
is curricten 1% consreucnice

| ABLE fo INFLUEHCE OrMeRs.

FACKLATATES suooTm OPERATION
OF WIS OFFICE

1. DOkS NOT REQUIRE STRONG AND
CoMTINyAUS SUPEAYI SION.

A uo0D suPcevisoR

Very broad knowledge of technical aspects in intelligence operations; enthusiasm

and devotion to type of work he is <

ror ere ey
Tendency to wander away from spec:
many vaguely related and remotet
learned about,

subjects discussions because of the
roilary situations he hay experienced and/or

SECRET



SECRET

La anet atthe try

TeDFCap) WN FOW Tame teeta

None

rrr errrenser

TER VOU PPLE twat WE BCCTAEE SUSSE SOFTEN EISOT

(tect

No

eo SHAT teats ies Ud Vou weeewotNe Fie Fie TENDON
None at present.
Dies Cowal nts Thadaeate Seve Feast pei Tie hal

eeport bul thich hove a hearing on ellective wlilitarion of thie porn

Tor ora Viee nat Covered el avehers Tm the

DIRECTIONS: Consider only the shill wath enich the C
Berson hae porforwed the dutice of his sob and tate
him sccordinaty.

(1 1. cons wor eenron ouries ascouateus we 1a
Teowre tea.

(I) a. stacey scragare is eenrommanc:
wasinao SPeir ie cuibance On
Orten Fates to Canny out mEsPOnstDlersees
court tintir.

(ZT 8 Perrone nae oF wis ccrtes acceerain oces
Sisvatty ouveaLs soue ante or weceness,

TT] 4 Penronus outies iva rye reuuy courtienr,

THOUGH HE

[KE] 8 Five Pretoumances cannies cur vany of wis
ede nemearneriae er cane
Gaaictitanmes twat totus canicera waieeeniper:
SONS fusan TO Me aatiR

Peatouns 13 CUTIES IN SUCH AN GETS TARvING
HS THES utvtoyéL SETTER QUALIFIED FoW soMn In Sout

___ SECTION Wr
ont Selote fation, Place Xin the wot apm
orskerions:

Stew ameay EX Sse Cortes ar nee haat
a OG J 6. oer initecy.

PR] 7. was an Gumusiastic Arr toe Tosaay te astwey

upeiate bue under subsections AvBCrab

sed upon ehet he hes #oid. his action
and any other indecations, give your opinion of thie
Dersonta attitude toward the agency.

(27 1 was an antacontsrig arrrruse toeang me -actacy

s.MILL OEFINITTLY LEAVE THE AGENCY AT Tut FIAST
oPPoRtUNI TY.

WWING, HE (7 2. was stmonc weaative attr tue. 196480 AGtNCYs ss

WWKED OY RESTRICTIONS... REGARDS AGENCY AS A
TEMPORARY STOP UNTIL HE CAN GET SouLTHING
ourren.

TENOS To WAVE AN UNFAVORABLE ST) TUOL TomaeD
THE AGNCY. .QDTHENED BY MINOY Fuy STRATIONS.
SILL ortt TF Teel continue.

SUS ATTETUDE TOwaRO THE astneY 12 INCIFFCHENT,
fee WAS CORALT AUG SER" ATTITUDE, 40009 LEARE IF
SOMKONE“OFFEACO wim Sout THING BETTER,

TENOS to WAVE FavORAGLE ATTITUDE ToMkeD AGENCY

WANES ALLOWANCES FOR BESERICTIONS 1MeSCU BY
WORKING FOR AGHNCY.. THINKS IN TRUS OF A Che
EER IN Te acter.

Faromagce ATT TOE TomARD THE
AGENCY..OARRING AN UNEXPECTED DuTSIOF OPFOR:
TUNITY. WILL PRo@ABLY ENDEAVOR To MAKE A
CAREER IN THE AGENCY.

S-WILU PROOADLY WEYCR CONSIDER HOKE ING AMY:
PLACE BUT IN THE AGENCY,

DIRECTIONS: Coneidering others af thie petaona grade] Be

4 Md type uf assisnaent, haw would you tate hia on
potentiality fur essumption af deester tesponsibitic
thew normaliy indicated by promotion,

(TU by nas ecacnen me wiaest cause LEVEL AT amtcH
SATIaractone Pearomuence can OL EAPECTLO
CO Ts wae ino taocacds, aot sets wont Stee in
~~ east owace atroae raougtigy to 4 tants
nar can. 61 we coumtnoco.
COT] 1 nave ro race om mesronsimiLiries oF tue
WT NOxT wtacee GRace, BUT WAY NEED TRAINING te
Sout tacas,

4 TIGL PacesdLy AowusT ouicnty to re wont
co RESPONSIOLE UTILS OF THE NEXT wIGHER GeADE,
CX] 8 te aceescy venroneise ar tee eevee oF hee miay

mioee coast

4. BS Tacerriosty Penson ano 15 exe oF Tm rte
(AEN rol soc at consiDunto #58 auPlD apvences
pies

Xe SECRET

DIMECTIONS: Consider everything au Ange shout thiv
Parson ia making your tating. shill in pon dutle
Conduct un the job, persenal characteristice a¢
hebdee, and apecial defects or talents.

DEFINITELY UNSUITABLE » NE SHOULD BE sEPARAteD.

OF COUBTFUL SUETABIL NW. 8GuLO NOT HAVE Ae.
CEPTED WIM IF | nad #ncen ana | eNOe NO,

A BARELY ACCEPTABLE EMPLOVEL..DEF IMI TEL DCLOe
AVERAGE QUT WITH AC REMNESSLE SUFFICH EWfeY
OUISTANDING To HARRANT wt5.SCPARATION.
ATYPICAL CUPLOYHE. WE DISPLAYS TH SANE SULTAG
BILITY AS MOST OF Twe PEOPLE I Know Im Tne
acency,

A FINC Fumvovec » was souE oUrstANoING
stacnates.

an USUSUALLY STRONG PLASoN IN TERS OF THE
ACQUIMEERTS OF Tne Antney,

KXCELLED BY ONLY A Fee IN SUETABILETY FoR eae4
ty THe acener.



SECRET

SECUPITY INFORMATION

Tiree ft tnvougs

woertiey Tete
Techy
fear eter
(rit

I ww (A ssectan

I] Beassignrent of Saver

Ye swe

Thy starige

we Ofte

pp?
ye FURIob tbvE

70823 tar 5%

© 7 theowsh fir

7

tm © ORIUF DESCRIPTION OF facHy GwIT winde GUTTERS

T Uist Fue wasse TONE OF Terortaecry
te Anal] for tae yuryesn off id
by Con

e. Conduct by commerinp and ic

aoa 0 of establ:

tyneurks,

cleared povernment
Los arotk.

EGE OGaING REPORT PiaiODs

T5T couates oF fot

Length of Course Date tonstetes

dare oF Cours sac it lon

HQUE

9. WM ANAT TIPE G? @ihe ARE YOU PRiwaitar INTERES IEOT

Inteliz, 2¢ Documer.:,
WF OLEPEREWE Face souH PRESET Jan. =

SAIN HOUR QUALIFICATIONS CAPIITUOL, KNOMLEDGE, satLis.

vate

a Le
22 FZ 22? 4 fatcineda ps PZ, Nemes!
Seine rons Le

11_be conpletec © ih

vesson's.

FOR 9D sy 154 SECRET “

may 1952



SECRET

otw @mat #Eaftge 4S Pats Pretwey Frere ie oe GUTS awoINa?

iti cM Lechniques: ard

Aceeptanse of

pau

rpation,

Ades

ar

9 €00:

Tait

Wi eT

Zion of

wider iuowled,

errr

COMMENT ON THIS FEGSON"S ADILIIY 10 mavOle Geiare@ EESOoNSTETENTT

ini.

ater

Me peciac.y in technical or

5 capacity to handle p

trulning activities,

Var THERE Ome STIS waiCM WLITUR SUIT Tals PLRbON TS

eretofore have recei
By rosea)

which

WHAT TOATHING G8 MDTATIOW BD TOU BiCoWNINT

ced Lacks

Hone ab pi

THE REPORT PLATOO WAS OLE UWSATISFAGTONTS EREAT TH Di PacuNi Tove GF ot uouiNmUW WaTIFE
Der MarSawanci

Tyrer:
reason cr uNtat

Yount Cawwtesa ter

tris P(wsOuntt Evaluation a€POnT WAS Blin GeSCusstD wits Tal Madge Toby
COMMENT OW ITEMS 7, 8 ano 9, AME Smcem atica UNDER 11

aA Mee $3

WEviveto Tal wodet auvont,

SECRET


a IN REACION Reser > YC
” A. ADENTIFYING DAIA 7 ee
| pars C1306

B fareou GUE ne Le tNentemtns Cost

12237701 al
7 van AcHON AIC os RISE

t
: Z
GO. TASTER OUT TRANSFER IN,
ENSION: ©. REINSTATEMENT
Date ef ASW WHE Boe i SHOWIN He He 7, Ag Ov, cH
i Bot etwas i
A

4 REMARKS 7

hy
Le



9a wry conpetant. =
sdcable knowlntva of
tribute to

Fitness Report
technical stand
i ARH activfttes, In many r
' that he neasures the potentivl of hia poi telency rathor!
a team loval, This creates 4 situ«tion wh Uatee many
sonnel | Reviewer,

th
functions which-he could delegate ¢
J.P. Margen,

Fitness Ranort Jan 1050 5
wactivities qualifies him asa caipotent Surervisor, Since the 1.
j he naa deleyated moro resnnaibilltion & mmol under hin ouperct.
1 effect, hra tncrsased the productive cazatility of his Branch.” Rater,
j Reviower, J, F. Marzen,

"... thorough technical mareletze of AAR
“Ping certol,
ite Trio, in

ee@lient Work ci Remwat Cols performed by

“Taeaed by Chet, tio
sation 12s) fron the ftelt, conveyer 0° the Carer Kampesant S2fcer, TS!

Tor efficiency In rendering supprt ty an opere



fey SECRET 4
Security Information

ERMAN vugun
First Middle

Name:

TO: AN C. f. A, Personnel

FROM: Personnel Director

SUBJECT: PERSONNEL QUALIFICATION QUESTIONNAIRE i"
a ; 1. The Agency is currently revising the system for machine coding

employce quilifications, ‘thereby permitting more complete and accurate +

data on all personnel. The new system will aid in implementing Agency

on promotion from within by facilitating the selection of personnel
cs which may occur, It

policic
with desired

is aluo expect
for planning and management purposes.

ducation and experience tor vacane
that the new system will provide readily accessible statistics

2. The attached questionnaire is designed to cover adequately those
factors in which the Agency is interested. Although the information is, in
ure, already retlected in previous forms submitted by you, it
zation may enable you to emphasize
The questionnaire also serves

a large mes
is felt that your time within the organi
those qualifications pertinent to its needs,
to bring your education and qualifications record up to date,

3. Your cooperation is requested in completing the questionnaire as
thoroughly und accurately as possible and returning it to your Administrative

Officer within the time allotted.

x Grice
% Gegdge ce

2 p&sonnel Director

SECRET
Security Information

fom 99.
war agsg 7088



SECRET
Security information :

PERSONNEL QUALIFICATION QUESTIONNAIRE

VoSerial Ho. ] 2. AME: (lant) Westy (iniddtey 3. Oltice

(no entry)

ghRo/rss

Martial Status —¢_ [.CIA Entry Dater

Nr. Dependents d_ 23 March 53

4, Acquired By: (i) y Birth (2y Marriage (3 Naturalization
()7 Other (specity) fiat

+ citizenship acquired, if not by birth

tear U,
~ 1, EDUCATION
1. Extent: (circle one) BD
1. Less than high school wi wo years college, or less 8, Masters degree
2. High school graduate 5, Over two years, no degree 9. Doctors degree

eee

3. Trade, Business or — &, Bachelor degree
Commercial school 7. Postgraduate study
graduate (ininimum 8 sern. hrs.)

or Unive

» Military or Intelligence Traininy (tull time duty as a student in specialized

schools such as inte!ligence, communications ordnance disposal, command &

staf, etc.) Attendance
School From | To

Study or Specialization

ation Comps cionad Ofticer



SEC.
1.

SECRET
Security Ltor.

(1, WORK EXPE

CIA Experience: State the specific nature of duties performed with CIA and
CG ing with your present position, Take position titles from your of-
ficial personnel papers, if you have personal copies. Please do not request
your Official Personnel Folder, Include geographic area and subject matter
dealt with, if applicable, Position Title is your classification title such as
Geographer, Intelligence Officer, cte, Duty Title indicates your organization
position such as - Section Chief, Branch Chief, Administrative Assistant, etc,
and is to be filled in only if different to the Position Title, Approximate dates
t) are sufficient, Use a continuation sheet, if neces ary, to

(month and ye.
adequately describe your duties.

Fromay Ty. Tot.mos.
rade gs g Salary seoyg :
fice GiRD/TSS

[Position

Titl
Duty
Titi

[Description of Duties:

et SSS

Duty Station, it overseas

Si Technical Brojects: Orr

From

rade

lOffice

Duty

[Position
Title;

Title:

To. ‘Tot. mos. Description of Duties:

lary

[Duty Station, if overseas:

From

JOffice

forade

Description of Duties:

To. fot. mos.

Salary

Duty

Position
Title:

Title:

Duty Station, if overseas?

rom
rade
Office

Titl
Duty

Position

L_Title:

To Tot. mos Description of Duties:

Salary

Daty Station, if overseas?

SECRET
Security Information



util

SECRET
Security Information
SEC. Il. WORK EXPERIENCE (CONT!D,)
Other than CIA: (Describe work experience for the last 15 years in sufficient

: of your qualifications, Include military work

detail to permit specific codi

expericnce, List last position
From, To ge, ng Tot.mo's_«

Yay lb mea
ClassifGatton Greist in Federal
Service) Salary $3021.00 Description of Dutie
Number and Claas of EMP EST :

Supervised: yaq . itt
Employer yg ies

Kind of Business of Sreanination
(ise., paper products mfr, public

utility) Forestry
Tot.mo's)

From gto ja, jg Tot.
Classification Grade(if in Federal
Service)cpo 7 Salary 3269496
Number and Class of Employees | 67.04 st fires
Supervised: 35 laborers =

Employer ay

Kind of Business or or}
{i.e., paper products mfr, public
utility) Porestery

Frompc; yy, Te Tot.mo's_7_
Classilisatten Gfadélit in Federal
Service) Salary31.10.per hr_| Description of Duties
Number and Class of Employees

Supervised: pone
EmployerNcCloud fiver Lbr. Co,
Kind of Business or organization

(i.c., paper products mfr, public
Baty Station il overseas:

utility)
Fromjyne ayer Tot. mo's Exact Title of your position 7 afazgp.

crag =
rade(if in Federal

position

Description of Duties:

rakeman on beisel loco,

Classification

Service) Salary « {eipe.| Description ‘of Duties: working with horses, ca‘
Number and Class of Employees far crord.

Supervised: none” He >

Employe riirown ta Ranch,

Kind of Business oF organization
(i.e., paper products mfr, public

Duty Station if overseas:

Exact Title of your position 7

Frompa, 131° rot.mo's 4
Classification Grade(if in Federal
Service) Salary$90 per br
Number and Class of Employees
Supervised:
Employeryeciaud “iver Lbs, ca |
Kind of Business or organization
(i.e., paper products mfr, public
utility) Lumber

: oe

Description of Duties: fe _lusber & Onrerate

antioes

tution if overseas:

oo 3

wee Security Information



fl
i
i

oe) ci 6S),

Total ionths
orvice)

supervis

Susitess

Exnet Title 0” your po:

Proml Yay 190 Tol Cet 19h0
Class. arate (if in Tadoral

and Class of

9220 laborers HEE

at Set vies

1940 Total months.
al “arviee) 5

et bitle of

Paseription of

‘orent Guard

Surpression



n_ 1939 Total Months

To} Cob 193! Total. Months
40 Tederal

rlae)
sapery



S&S

SFC. WORE
3. Special Work Es
you may have been employed.
Ol__U.S, Seeret Service
O2_y Civil Police (porest Service)
03 - Military Police
047 U.S. Border Patrol
05 U.S. Narcotics Squad
06 FBI st
077 Criminal Investigation: Div,
21 Office of Navat Intelligence
227 Office of War Information
237 Army G-2 a
20" Office of Strategic Services

liad

SEC, Ill, FOREIGN LANGUAGES
List below the forcign languag:

SECRET

Security Information gay
ERTENCL (CONT'D)
perience: Check any of the following o

nizations by which

24 Air Force A-2
25 Forvign Economic Admin,

26-¥ Cventer Intelligence Corps

277 tmmigration & Naturalization
28 Strategic Services Unit,

29 Forcign Service, State Dept.
30 Central Intelligence Group
Armed Forces Security Agency
32 Coordinator of Information

337 Office of Facts & Figures

34__ Board of Economic Warfare
3%__Federal Communications Comm.

w

in which you have some competence. Be sure to

include uncommon modern languages, Check ( X) your competence and how acquired.

LANGUAGE

COMPETENCE HOW ACQUIRED

ivalent to

¥ If you have checked ‘Fluent’ for a language that has significant ditference in spoken
and written form (e2g., Arabic), explain your competence herei

¥eSpecialt

ed Language Competence: Describe ability to do specialized langua
involving vocabularics and terminology in the scientific, engineering,
cations, and military fields. List the language with the type of speci

ane SECRET

Security Information



SECRET
Security Information

SEC, IV. AREA KNOWLEDGE
1, List below any forcixn countries or regions of which you have knowledge

gained a3 A result of residence, travel or study. Study can mean vither
academic study, of study of « foreign country resulting from an intelligence,

military, commercial of professional werk assignment,
T Manner in Which Knowledge

Aquired (check (X) one)

> Specializ

ie List specalized knowledge of forcign country such as knowledge of terrain,
coasts and harbors, utilities, railroads, industries, political parties, ete.,

result of study or work assignment. Include name of employer

gained as a
or organ
Country

tion.
ce of Knowled

How and When Gained

AND STENOGKAPHIC SKILLS (PRESENT UTILIZATION)
cr Cent of WPM (Approximate | Pretcr Assignment
Time Used Proficiency) Using Skill Ottener

Not Used

Yes

arthand System: 1. Machine 3. Speedwritiag.

SEC. VI. LICENSES, HOBBIES, SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS
T. Licenses: List any licenses oF Corie 2. Hebbi ay hobbies such
fication such as teachers, pilot, marine, ag sailing, skiing, writing, or

ete. other special quali

Horsea, suisminn archery

[ pnotozranyy,and wenrongy
IONAL AND ACADEMIC HONORS
academic associations or honorary societies 1a which

SEC, Vil. PROF

List any professional oF
you hold membership.

SECRET
urity Information eu

Su



SECRET
: EP ccurity Intormation

SEC. VUE PUBLICATIONS
Lisi below the type of writing (non-fiction? profe
interest subjects, current events, etc; fiction: novels,
hed materials of which you were author or co-author.

Dional or scientific arti

ma |

short stories,ete.) j-

xen
of any publ

Tinlad Guesi Ionia he Nonoler Unelivence (oz iho

Chgervation and Description

Acence

SEC, IX. INVENTIONS
Describe any devices you have invented as to type of work for which intended

and whether patented.

Patented
(i) Yes T2) tie
5 Q__ Ko

SEC, X. CIA TESTS
Describe below the type of t
[ Type ot Test

s which you have taken in CIA:

SEC. XI.’ PHYSICAL HANDICAPS
List aay physical handicaps you may have.

SEC, XI, OVERSEAS ASSIGNMENT
Are you willing to accept periodi¢ tour of duty ove

MOC Tour py GY) year Toor y (3) Not interested

SEC, XII, WORK ASSIGNMENT
In view of your tutal experience and ¢
you think you are best uated

ueation, for wha

SE

Tt

Security Information


SECRET
Security Information

ASAT ANY
t Drait Status
tered under the Selective Service Act of 19487 Yes _y No.
t draft classification

2. erent Heserve ; rd Status

De gey now have Reserve or National Guard Sti
unplete the following.
onal Guard
2.7 sir National Guard
anna erve Status (member of org.
erve Status

Yes x No.

yzed unit)

Reserve Unit with which currently afliliated
Service Mobilization Assignment, .if any

Lecetion, of Service Records, if known

SEC, £8. CIA TRAINING |
Liat the training courses ot subjects you have tuken while in the CIA.

Subject from) Dates (ta)

SEC, X¥E. XEMARKS
lee this space to indicate any other qualifications you may have which you do
Calis 743, Set ho,

atl]

net te

oper gublectje Two (2
Litoratory which specia
7 7

SECRET
eek ecucity Information we



CERTIFICATE OF ATTENDANCE

‘ aR 30 1999

T certify thot on T have attended.

18
the Agency Indoctrination Courn opocifiad by Regulation
25-1. -

(LAB Ps A fe

c want i7

FoR 40,
Oke toni St-t2e

w



APPOINTMENT AFFIDAVITS

Before awearing to these appointment afidavits, you should read and understand the
attacked information for appointee co

IMPORTAL

.1 do solemaly swear (or afer) that

1, ....

A. OATH OF OFFICE

Iwill suppert and defend the-Conetitu
domestic; that ill bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take thi
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion: that I will well and faith!
dutics of the office-on which I am about to enter, SO HELP ME GOD.

B. AFFIDAVIT AS TO SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY AND AFFILIATION
Tam not a Cosnrauiiist or Fa Ido not advocate nor am T a member of
that mst 8 3 the ow a of the Government of the United State

of the United States against all enemi foreign and

ny organization
we orother »
ir rights under the
lot so adivecate, nor will
sployee of the Federal

“Ldo farther swear (or aitirm) Tw
tion ding the period that Iam an

Government.

C. AFFIDAVIT AS TO “STRIKING AGAINST THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

Tam.not engeged in any strike against the Government of the United States and that Iwill not,
so.engage while Fovernment of the United States; that Iam not a member of
an organi: Tament employees that asserts the right to strike against the Government
of the Uni tes, and that I will not, while a Government, t employ: rec, become a member of such
an organizat
D. AFFIDAWST 25 TO PURCHASE AND SALE OF OFFICE

Thave not paid, or offered or promise to pay, any moncy or other thing of value to any person,
firm or corporation for the use of inluence to procure my ap;
E. AFFIDAVIT AS TO DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE

The answers given in the Declaration of Appointee on the reverse of this form are truc and
correct.

83 Moreh 1973 _

and sworn before me this .......2374_. day of... HAPS...

Subserib:

ar, .Washington D.C.

{sea}

3.08C 16 & 160

‘his taken before a Notaty Public the date uf expiratic

NOTE =U the a:
be



dy OF APPOINTEE

suee all questions. Any f
Vafter appeintinent,

statement in this
Inipersonition isa

‘eet ZY

This form is to be er
taration will be ere

de:
rit:

Tareas
ftil AN iuidity L. : Wess hiinglttey 8e,
ates a Peer See eresraremperf Mean peetrh
au uu aah 7 ae hi
Mel LU by | Gbell (eT toh R Ears — i

) Gog fZ2~
ihe ed Lal fn

Sain iF

INDICATE "YES" OR “NO” ANSWER BY PLACING “£ * |
1x PROPER COLUMN ‘| ns| va

AGE YOUACITZIMOF of 20 10H ONE ALLE TO THE

Gar you ew orrierton
tata

U your answer ia "You

2: Ret Fur APICATIDN eM NT
Faciduy stirice FPOM AMT FOMMON

Uneaten tie in tens 10 1he mate ac aa

er Gk cistron sont t

Ths mnowiosing eee belong whew tht foe: ing soctegte in mate shal

CAD IME LMT hatices of omer, pension in one
WUntuny tevond of voeent Wiochage 0 aon, bee parcataliy far Whe



STATEMENT OF PRIOR FEDERAL AND MILITARY SERVICE

this form will be wsed ia

tre creditable seryice for Innve purrpares and retention sontity
force. The employee abs u

plete Patt Pand the Persenne! Other should eomplese Bi

PART M—THIS COLEWN 1S.
FOR PCRSONNEL OF

PART 1. —EMPLOYEC'S STATEVENT

E RANE (Laer, vat, matle sratiai)

(15. farts Scrviee
LS Lovesh Service .
iSkovesf Service

ta 53

WF YOUMAD KO MILITARY

LSE mono a
sete asi

men TE osha

tay

2a
a

Ka
ETHAN 6 VONTRS AIEEE
OAR YEAR? [er'VES [-] no

Aton [BP eee
HE, BA vis

S CURING PLEIUG OF EMPLOYMENT SHOWN IN ITEM
3 PAY, INCLUOING PERIODS OF MERCIIANT MARINE
ANSWER 15 “¥E5." LIST FOLLOWING INFORMATION.

Tm cw ad
a

12, NORCREDITARLE SERVICE,
(Laave putpoaes ony):

Tent

‘OL,

FE RONCREOITAGLE BERVICE
CU purposes ond):

Nan wan | wort [on | ww) mou Pca | rama] worn | oe

eT May

SENT COMPETITIVE:

TC PEEWPLOWNENT RIGHTS

P/FIRELON DATE OF RET

Ane ere or acrumro veuimt (Js) PgimaneN

2 pic meron er AcrctastD on sania vercarnr C] ves [C] 0
© tetverussoita meow oraxcrrean C] nsf] a0

2B TD EE GECUTED BEFONE A NOTARY PU ICI PERSONS AUINGAIGED FD ADWINIGIER OAIND.
Trecar (of affirm) that the above atatementa are true to the best of say knowledge and belie.
the wel: % ALE a
ara Cian

Subscribed and sworn to before me on this 223. tay of Boa oer Caren DO 7

SEAL 4,
NOTE: If cath is token before a Notary Public, the date of exprarie of his Commission should be ebowd

(OVER) money



cay U-DETERMINING CREDITABLE stAMCE
AND SCAVICE CONFUTATION DATE FOR
LEAVE PuRFosts

TOTAL SERIE (tem 13)

NONCPEOTT NEAL “ERVICE (Hoon 19).

CRELATSEALE TEAVIEE (Leave purpoeeed

ENTRANT C1 DUTT DATE (Prevent agora) .

LESS CRELITSELE SLICVICE (Leave purpoeed) coco

SERIKE “LAPSTATION DATE (Leave purpweed),

PART IV.—OCTERMINING CREDITABLE SEAVICE
AND SERVICE COMPUTATION DATE FOR.
RCGUCTION iM FORCE PURPosts

(To be completed oaly In these entcs whe the amount ef credinble service for ted
in force purposes Wlilfers trata the auswunt creditable fur leave ur yoses)

TOTAL SEPKE teem 12)...

NONCREDITAEE SERVICE (rem 14)

= CREDITIERE SEIVICE (RIP purrs)

ENTRANCE CH ZEIT DATE (Present ogerep) . Eee

LESS CREO SSCE CERVICE (HIP pursmees) 7 ot oes

SERACE COMPTTATION DATE (81 pun

(Enter an tre tersice computer ont

ad
a he eanptorears

reland Catt SPT}



CONFIDENTIAL

stcunt) wrusaanion

SECURITY APPROVAL

eo Date: 6 Fab, 1953
12594
leg

TO: chief, Covert Personne), Divisi

FROM: Chief, Security Divioton

SUBJECT: = KINSEY, Hernan Edvant

ova Indlcatod

action In the sudject

1, Thin ta to advise
bolow:
Suourity approval to granted the subjuct porson Yor access to elnuulflod
{nformation.

with CIA ts granted under the provislona
which provides for a temporary appolnt-
rity Investigation,

of Paragraph D of Kuyulation 12-
mont ponding complution of full s

v has prantad a provisional oldarance

Tho Diroctor of Contral Intell!
provisions of paragraph H of Regulation

for full duty with CLA under ¢
10-9

(1 Provistonal clearance for ful? du!

ty within 60: days from tho abovo

Untoss tho subject poruon
dato, this approval becomes tnvalld.

3. Subject is to be polyyraphed as part of the E.0.9. procodurea,

UP Qbear
Baten
~~

rr Ve

a)

CONFIDENTIAL

FORM NO,
na y9sz 38-101 wm



PERI ESEN TA

a

Haenec ee wine ve atone eM er et aaron NN

&











See









|









Seer oriED rt eS





nevis at,
ais,





yeeonu

RECORD OF
PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT
SERVICE RETURNED TO

FEDERAL RECORDS CENTER IN

ST. LOUIS, Mo,

