‘4-99000 = —sscmee et 2
paba=10134-10010); {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

Y Usiil etl re

IRFOFMATION FOR THE SECURITY FILE

TO : Chief, Personnel Security Division Date: 1 July 1965
FROM : Chief, Interrogation Research Division IRD#: _ 21642
susyect: _ SWENSON, Harold Francis SF # _73086

CATEGORY A: 1. Foreign relatives residing in foreign countries.
2. Foreign relatives (non-US citizens) residing in the
United States. ‘ ies eeeecesiette
3. Relatives residing in foreign countries other than
U. 8. Government connected.
CATEGORY B: 1. Any relatives employed by foreign governments foreign
owned firms or foreign intelligence organizations.

CATEGORY C: 1. Foreign social acquaintances residing in foréign countries.
2. Foreign social acquaintances (non-US citizens) residing in
the United States. i
3. Social acquaintances other than U. 8. citizens or
Government connected residing. in foreign countries.

CATEGORY D: 1. Any acquaintance employed by a foreign government, foreign
owned firm. or foreign intelligence organization.

CATEGORY E:; 1. Close Agency acquaintances.
CATEGORY F: 1. Current roomates.

CATEGORY G: 1. By whom recommended. as

RELATIONSHIP
TYPE ASSOCIATION
CATEGORY NAME( citizenship) ADDRESS EMPLOYMENT TYPE CONTACT



WH/C #65-200
10 May 1965
MEMORANDUM FOR: C/Fi/INT/IE = uf
SUBJECT : Foreign Intelligence Officers!
| ___ mn the United States
REFERENCES A.Your Memo dated 14 April 1965, Subject

2s above.
B. SAS Memo #64-96 dated 5 February 1964

L The following information is submitted per your reference
A which has been reported previously in reference B to the
Director of Security.

Name: Colonel Carlos LUNA
Position: Argentine representative to the Security
Committee of the OAS, Washington, D.C.
Nationality: Argentine
Background: Age, 49. Born Argentina. Wife is
Argentine, Senior Colonel in the
Argentine Army. Career Army
Intelligence officer. Formerly an
officer assigned to the Secretaria de
Informaciones del Estado (SIDE), the
srerrermtitind senior Argentine Intelligence Service

2H
‘he Argentine service has assigned officers
to the OAS Security Committee (at Washington,
D.C. tHe replaced
Lt. Col Francisco RAMIREZ and has almost
finished his tour here, Estimated time of
departare from Washirgten, D.C, in July 65.
eee He was assigned to the OAS Security
£ fA Committee by the Argentine Army and the
‘Argentine Intelligence Service (SIDE).

CIA Contacts; Harald F. Swenson, WH/C/SE
“Raford W. DC/WHD 7320 6/

( Fn Wiles neywars D pyesz-

Naa eo

a

nm

cD

Fr

—i

™~

SS
Nt


oo SECRET

Frequency of Meetings: Occasional. No more often
than once per month as a
rule.

Place of Meetings: At homes of above listed afficers
or at restaurants.

2, The above contact stems from a past association, is only
semi-official and in each instance covered by a Memorandum of
Record to WH Division.

Harold F. Swenson
WH/C/SP

cc. Deputy Director for Plans

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - DDP
1 - WH/C/ESEC
1 - Chrono

SECRET
