# 104-10121-10014

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10121-10014

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

M5=400/

DATE

REQUÉST FOR APPROVAL OF LIAISON

SECPET

CLASSIFICATION

S0 9-2634

21 March 1761

TO

THROUGH:

Chief

FILE ®

mployee Activity Branch,

PSD/OS

The following contact is hereby

CIA EMPLOYEES

reported

requested to

be effective on a

one-time

continuing basis:

NON-CIA EMPLOYEE

NAME

EXT.

HOGSE

NAME

EXT.

OFFICE

TSD/ CDS

OFFICE

NATICK, Dorothe K.

RANK

¡AME

EXT.

OFFICE

VAME

EXT.

OFFICE

NAME

EXT.

OFFICE

TITLE

Issistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence

ORGANIZATION

us kray, Fontagon

BUSINESS ADDRESS

Alien Affairs Division, Collection Div.

Operations Branch

VAME

EXT.

OFFICE

PHONE

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF LIAISON. COMMENTS.

AND

KNOWN BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

Renewal - SPORET - 3 March 1961

23 MAR 1961

LASSIFICATION OF MATTER TO BE DISCUSSI

Subject's SO advised

that Subject was cleared for access to

oluding

Classliled ormation upato and in;

1M. ACCUN

4/15/L0

He/s buce 447560-22)

Riza

EXT.

james P. O-CONOR

AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE

SECURITY APPROVAL

T50/183

OFFICE/DIVISION/STAFF

Distribution:

1 - iüdressee

1 - TSD/EDS

1 - TSD/LSS

115-4001

C-58.-

Authorization is granted for liaison contact batrasa the

individua's sword in this request. CA infor.-aliua may be

disclosed trough the classifcation stated. This is not authon

ity for disser-zarion di Dillig ros documents. The cancur

rence of tri 17700 for tis linen contact will expire one

year from daia. If resa.

'is tonourance is desired, a written

request shouli be daw..di:: Orace.

23. MAR 1961

Date

Chiet, Fersonnel Security Division

PETUAN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFICATIOA

(11)

---

