{104-40177-10085) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
To | =e

Rene Mucdiinnd :
Office Memorandum + uxtrsp states GOVERNMENT
ony
a :
TO + ~~ Chtef, CI/oa Awe pars: 3
Ly | > 2
FROM 1: Deputy Director Wr security (Investigations and Support) \ SES
on
SUBJECT: MOSS, Edward K. Wh b2% ‘
AAT26UG ne i Qo
: a, &
: % & %
1, Reference is made to the attached menorandun from NEA/6 S of
wherein a Covert Security Approval was requested to pernit Subject!s >
ffase“as an informant on the plans, activities and prograns of the 24
: Indian Embassy in which he is engaged or. cf which he is knovledgeablq.

2. Concurrent with this comminication the requested aprrova].
ia being granted, however the following is being made available for
your information and consideration in the contem lated use of the
Subject. .

3. A current investigation by this office of the Subject was
gmerally favorable, however several inforzents who knew the Subject
Professionally critized him for “unscrupatous and unethical” business
practices. These informants claim the Subject has a reratation for
fyaiding accounts of othar public relation firms, It is also noted
that the Federal Government has had thren tax Liens against the Subject
since 1955 including one amounting to $108.65 which is still pending.

lL. In view of the above information, it is recommended that the
Subject be closely surervised and that he be made witting ‘only after
a tine elapse sufficient to afford Subject an opportunity to denonstrate

his integrity and reliability.
5. The dissemination of the foregoing infermation sheuld be
limited to Headquarters Staff Officials on a strict need to know basis.

— y
yo pf if ‘ /.
ld hia Meh
ised | Robert He boar cag’

y,

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

cet
Copy of Approval :
Copy of Request

(&R

