# 104-10066-10031

## Page 1

1104-10066-10031 ma. 120

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY Y

202 RELEASE UNDER THE RESIDENT ON KENNEDY ASSASMAO Rei e ins

TOTAL COPIES 37-2

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER 7

SECRET.

ISSUING OFFICE IS

PROHIB

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED -

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

STAFF

ACTION *

F

•

deplans, e/cas

DAOY

ISES, LEURE ESCAlE CISIA/FL

Balato

3

T

325447

E1A549

PAGE 01

TORID9IDDIZ NOV 27

IN 459495

33877

SECRET 090945Z NOV 77

CITE

33077

DO NOT REPRODUCE

TO: DIRECTOR.

RETURN TO CHO-

WNINTEL RYBAT REAM SYMPATHIZER MACOLOR

REF: [ONHA-4410> 4 MAY 1977

1, SENSITIVE SYMPATHIZER, SOURCE INDICATES THAT ON

3 OCTOBER WILLEM OLTMANS MADE APPOINTMENT MEET WITH

CUBAN AMBASSADOR, THE MAGUE, OLTMANS STATED HE GOING TO

AMERICA ON 18TH" AND THAT HE " IS INDEED PREPARED TO GO

AT THE BEGINNING OF NOVEMBER AS ARRANGED".

2. DURING DISCUSSION, OLTMANS SAID HE ALSO HAD

VISIT SCHEDULED WITH RUSSIAIN AMBASSADOR ROMANOV FOR

3 OCTOBER AND WANTED COMBINE TWO VISITS FOR SAME DAY.

OLTMANS WAS TOLD AN ATTEMPT BY CUBAN AMSASSADOR TO

SCHEUDLE MEET WITH HIM DURING SEEK 25 SEPTEMBER HAD

BEEN UNSUCCESSFUL BECAUSE OLTMANS COULD NOT BE REACHED.

OLTMANS STATED HE HAD BEEN IN SOVIET UNION THEN..

3, ABOVE EVIDENCE OF OLTMAN'S CONTINUING CLOSE

CONTACT WITH CUEAN AND SOVIET DIPLOMATS AND HIS RECENT

TRAVEL TO THE USSR AND APPARENT CURRENT TRAVEL TO CUBA

SECRET

06774

---

## Page 2

14-000,00

7-71 MFG. 7176:

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY_

PERSÖN/UNIT NOTIFIED -

ADVANCE COPY ISSUEDISLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF.

N

ACTION #

325447

_PER_

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

SEPRODUCTION BY OTHEI

SSUING OFFICE IS PROHI

STAFF

BY

AT

FILE.

VR.

2

3

5

IN 459495

33877

E1A549

PAGE 22-22

TOR: 0912217 NOV 77

IS OF INTEREST IN VIEW HIS NOTORIOUS ROLE AT THE TIME

OF THE DEATH OF GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILD. LATTER WAS OF

INTEREST BOTH TO SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGNECE

AND HOUSE ASSASSINATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE, IF HOS DEEMS

IT APPROPRIATE, NO STATION OBJECTION TO CONVEYING ABOVE.

WITH ADEQUATE SOURCE PROTECTION, TO PROPER CONGRESSIONAL

AUTHORITIES.

4. FILE: 221-155221. E2, IMPDET.

E/S SUUGESTS ADDI DISSEM TO: OLC

S

R

---

