*104-10106-10042)

ees

ACT OF 1992

20 October 1976

RETURN TO-CIA
Background Use Only -

ire President

(

‘tn

_. Do Not Reproduce

beax lr, Gteele,)

. This document is intended to confirm discussions held between
yourself, representing! hereinafter
xeferred to as the "Company, and Mr.. John J. Murray, v., representing
the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)... If it conforma to your
understanding of the agreement. reached, kindly so acknowledge by
signing below. .

"1. "You have agreed on behalf of tha Company to assist GIA
by placing on retainer Mr. Richard T. Gibson at an annual. fee of

"$9,900 pér annua, “Thin fea will he paid to Mr. Gibson by the

Company in monthly increments of $750 each. The Company will
overtly negotiate a retainér contract with Mr. Gibson, which will
make eminently clear that both are negotiating and concluding the
contract as independent parties; that..the Company will. have no.
obligation to withhold Federal, state or Social Security income
taxes,

2. In consideration of the support rendered, CIA will pay
the Company a fee of $10,000 per annum..:- Provision is ‘made in this
amount to offset sny nominal expenses the firm incure in its overt
associations ox support of Mr. Gibson. E

3." CIA will reimburse the Company in quarterly increments
via a contrived contractual arrangement between the Company and
a notional facility of CIA. Cancelled checks will serve as
adequate accounting for monies paid the Company.

“*--4,- Because of CIA's interest in Mr. Gibson, it fs requested
that the Company neither offer Mr. Gibson bona. fide employment nor
accept any proposal of employment from him without prior consent
of CIA for a period of two (2) years following termination of this
agreement,

E2IMPDET
CL by: 063837



5. All information relating to this Agreement is classified
secret. Both CIA and the Company agree that the most stringent
safeguards will be taken to protect this information, including
the existence of the agreement. Any information in any form that
must be given to a third party by either CIA or the Company will
be done in strict conformanca with the laws safeguarding national.
security information, and. only with full consultation between CIA
and the Company... --

6. This agreenent is effective 1 October 1976 and shall remain
ain full effect for an indefinite period, subject to cancellation
at any time upon sixty (60) days’ notice by either party thereto.

.The CIA wishes to express its appreciation for the manner
in which you have received thie request to perform a service
related to the national security of the United Statea and for
your personal attention thacetc. i

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BY.
+ Special Contracting Officer

&

) President Date

