# 104-10515-10033

## Page 1

:104-10515-10033

Шш.0400000.204

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

-T...

HUI/COG 67-121

NEOLANDU: PON:

SUBJEC'I

AFFERENCE

ADI!

C/CIAid A (i, Rucca)

Garrison and The lemody Assassination

:CI/k. Ed Nemorandum Dialed 26 April 1007

1.

In response to deferonce renorindus,

Nocoln Operations

Group has anciendored

lo maride all artlana incormation on

individuals and orantations coquoted in pungripts&, and

Tor reference.

Almont l contains backpound amicination.

ana monahie cata on imiriduals ablained tron 1H/COd ind

Machmut 2 summices the bachgound intor-

tion and money nascrintion with the ornication lisied

in

pagean 5 or colorence.

1/C0G will contime to rovich ill malcrial that my.

contain infortion portinent to this subject mod will furwirdl

such information so call da on a priority basis.

Ba 1: 1

Falliamson

AC/811/COG

Alinchnont 1

Bio data on individuals

Attachiont 2

Bichground sumnals. of FRO, DrI, INCA

---

## Page 2

serrao Miccato Aucken Saich (ncloguro 2 of reterico tonoridi)

DPOB: 22 Jamuary 1922, Cuba

Traces on AiCACil do not reticet the dato he farst

urivod in do Usa

Morever, he becano the FrETE KHOLU

CIONRIO MENERTICO ORD) delegato in Nei Orlerns prior

to the lavor vigs tuviston and continuet in that position

FiD coased to finction, The lud sus the medecessor

of the could KoLcIONx couNciL, and was orfanited and

suppo by the Agency.

The orminization wis usodas a

front foi decruitncht of brigue 250G foi the invasion.

During this period AlCAChA rcported to the fro headquarters

througha post office bos in Cuml Cibles,

reportedly mintained extonsive colations with the New

Orleans Mi aid Innigration offices. To of his reclar

roi contets vore a si. De Bruce and the deceiied Guy

Banistoi®

MiCACIA sas also one of the pronuter of the

Immis or DIOCRATIC CUA, INC (PDC) which wis incorporated

in Kos Oricans on 6 January 1961. This organization las

ostensibly croated by seroral Sow Orleans business and

politient fismes, including the deccased for lot agent,

Guy BanISt

tirlit arnst Comunisn.

to collect moncy to aid Cubans an rag

incorporation, these donations sould also be used to support

the FRo and the runds were to be clameled through michela,

lesa a percentano to be rotrined by the FDC. An investi

ention conductod by a rcliable diani Station assei concludod

that the FDe vas organicod strictly foi the personal guin:

of the prunoters with the annoval and collaboration of

The investigation produced no criccuce thit any

Individual domitions vere ever solicitcd of leccived aud

recommended that the funds of the Stevedores Union ana the

louks of the New ilcans Esporters Conpany be investirated

for evidence of personal gain and possibio evidenee of

forcal tir cvasion, sinec both the president of the dew

Orloans hyporters Company, Gerard F. Turague, and the Chiet

of New Orleans

oficials of the IDC.

Approciately

one month after the

FDC was creited,

strong criticish fion sone proninint Cubis

pui tlie organisation out of bisiness.

information in an imigration caid reflcets

ARcaCia incrollod to Caracas,

Venezuola at an unspuciriod

date. luis address in Veneruola vas JOTEL TIld, Caracas,

and iris la address sas listed as 4523 Duplesses Street,

Fassport No. 00:33.

---

## Page 3

13R

connect toi

Si CSC 3Y761

Das 30015 eSCi

1961

Сомики to ure vir

90

DER 66959

81961 4010120D AL

DBX 22855,4718

Wege und ich 022, 22 rebrunny

---

## Page 4

CHOlOS BRINGULIL CInclosure 0 uf réference monoraudum)

CarlOs BRINGUER Ja a brother of Juan Belipe BHINGUER

esposito, a former momicro Brirade 2500 who was, cuptured

lur fire tho invusion.Mo personal history statoucntin

Juan LINGUEN 8 201-

Tilo states his brotlica Curlos, i lavyor

1n Cuba, was 20 yoars old at the time of Juan Surecrultmont

10i 2960

CEC.

---

## Page 5

OLLE

Enru se purti Paragraphe (i) of referenco nemorandum)

tho Nemonous appo raico, osmunitta

CASTo shortly attos

Mescistro wrco thoy distributed tundreds.of.tapey.contn

me Mass cistio decimations wien chie mas suraced ina

Nascos

handlea tho ulandns ma mirantchents for thic, New Orloans

visivith Inca otticials

The only subsequent contuet

Detect the J"AVE assetsand Edward BUrbhit occurret whon

"CASTRO-ITTLEP In JUVAN"

Sec Attachnent 2 for a suumury

of tho INCh orcanization.

---

## Page 6

Scout!

Albert Town (Paragraph 7(1) of reference menoranucu)

DROB: 15 Julj 1929, New Orleans, Louisiana

Subject ts Alberto Casinin southleterillait, a

neuber of brirade 2506 who was captured during the

invision

and returned to the US in tho Decenber 1962 prisone

exchange.

FouLEn apparcntly rotuned to Cuba with his parents

during his carly life and returned to the US to attoud

schat this late toons. ile nttended the Lonos Schuol,

Lenos, Massachusetts, 1918-49; Louisica Stare University

1919-51. Altor his genduation fron ISU he returned to Cubi

aid maried sugarita Paulotte Van ded SCHUENE, Loxa 13

August 1933, Brusscas, Belgium-

roules vas president of

the North Ancrican Sugar Company, lavata, frow 1951 until

lic retimed to the Us in November 1900 and enlisted in

Brigade 2500. At the time of his enlistont he gave sark

POSTEN, Cuban Refusce Contci White louse Representative,

aid former US Ambassador William D. PlUilY, as references.

rolloring his relense from prison toiLER worked for the

BRITIS CONSTRLICTION COMPANY,

Iather resides, and for BROOKS TrAVeL SERVICES, W Palm

Beach,

Ploridit, unil at least late Isol. lo apparently

lost his l'S citicuship during his sears of residence in

Cuba and immigration records indicate he applied fur advance

parole status in Novenber 196% while Le was still cuployed

in W. Pain

beach, He apparently retusted to Louisiana

sonetime after that date. FOWLEl's Luther lives in Coving-

ton, Louisian, and he has a sister who is married to fort

PIPES, Ji., membea of a prominent Neu Orleans family.

---

## Page 7

SECRET

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT Lavrenco J, LABORDE, 201-291688

On " May 1967 the headquarters office of the Domestic

Contacts Scrvice telephoned the C/CI/R&A and said that Subject lad

teleplaned the New Oricane office of the DCS that day. Subject said that

he was an cx-CLA employee, that he feared that D.A. Jim GARRiSON

would subpocna him, that he was willing to leave the U.S. to avoid a

subpocna, and that he wanted the office to tell him what to do.

2.

A review of Subject's file has led to the hypotlesis that this

visit may have been a provocation, probably engincered by GARRISON

In an attempt to trap CIA into advising Subject to leave Louisiana,

Had such advice been given, GARRISON would have been ablc to buttress

his charge that CIA is attempting to obstruct the course of justice in

Now Orlearis.

3.

The Miami Station requested a provisional covert security

approval for Subject on 14 March 1961. The request was granted on

24 March 1961. (A PCSA approves contact for spotting and assessing

Tonly.) However, a 31 March 1961 cable from Miami requested per-

mission to incrcasc Subject's salary to $700 a month and to pay him

bonuses.

4.

A Hcadquarters dispatch of 23 March 1962 warned Miami

that Subjcct was indiscret, drank too much, and had an unsavoury

reputation. On 20 April 1962 Miami cancelled the request for an

approval, on the grounds that Subject was a poor security risk.

Subject had no later relationship with the Agency. Subject was bitter

about his CIA contacts when terminated and made reckless threats.

5.

An FBI report of 23 May 1962 said Subject had contacted

representatives of the Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC, Agency-created

and supported) in New Orleans, his home town; had offered his services;

and had said lie was running a boat out of kcy West, smuggling Cubans

and guns with the knowledge of CLA.

SECRET

---

## Page 8

SECRET

6.

A Miami report of June 1962 saig tras Subject was employed

1917-1939 In Alexico by the U.S. Deparunces of Agriculture but was

tired for excessive drinking, discharging a authorized fircarms, and

non-support of dependent children.

The New Orleans States-Item of 2S July 1962 named Subject

was the source of bitterly anti-CIA romarks ta a story which praises

LABORDE as a "good family man, completely reliable, and quotes a

Cuban refuge leader as saying that CIA and FBI agents termed Subject

a man of integrity. An anti-CLA article in the Denver Pöst of 3 June 1962

also appears to be basc on statements fror LABORDE.

8. 1

FBl reporting of August 1962 stated that LABORDE had duped

hat he and a crew would

U.S. Government could not opcaly acknowlever but for which it would

pay handsomcly.

SECRET

---

## Page 9

Subjects possibly Ident table with. Carlos OuTRoGn,

& Tormen Student &l Lous Cam Suito Univorst ly Cho was y

candidate for the Arency Student Regatront nam

Mils

molvad recruitment of Cuban stuiente the US who would

returrito cuba as agents in places

ou Tidivldual of tho same namo was an Cloctrict cutticem

i Deconber 1061.

Now moralS,

and until the midald or 1961 was an nident CASTRO supporter

aed mdc anti-s statements. There is no indication that a

Culos QUIlOGA vas ever employed by the Agency in any

capacity.

---

## Page 10

SECHEI

Jüljan BUALuS (Enclosuro S of geforonco memorandum)

DYOB: 1G Pobruary 1940, Haysza, Cuba

Subjoctis appirently sdcnts(läblo with Julisn BUANsDO

Custellauos cho arelucd tu ths US on 20 November 19s0 and.

culistediin Brirade 2506 Mllc mis a civiltan Dilothsn Cula

and scived on tho invasion craft BAlbAlA J. BUENADo sas

capturod and sclensed in the Prisoner excliangs

These ds no

indication heins over emploged by tho Arcncy, other than

his participation in the invision.

---

## Page 11

S.0m 1

There

1u Wil/Cuban Operat ton

Mount aler

Cleathe.

arulelu

Do coves wich appete adu tho

Dea CIne And to In

the procesy

of conductio

:8811

¿paces on

New Urlene

---

## Page 12

NOSTAL TORREST ENGlosurgen

Then is no rocord of Sumest undor citlic, mue in sil/coG

or JiVE tiles.

---

## Page 13

ala:driles

1T016d...O 107191..1006 (16d)

mia: cronciled, dorado denis inners by the

in

i ken if

It ail dul

mised 01

the nctivi:."

rideredit

in Cal

all ball od musi

Tiled this flee Casino.

Sages 110

Madon care Into Maili secued dopenlis 1900

radned and infaltratod

by 118°

Agains in

11:?.

Silence 9edt1 apaction tri,

While the Wis sat initially sor

aid in tonie ind mategial.

Arto the big of bliss,

the thik enaped li indigonent

milatury bell one shich declinod at Meney direedion and.

beratic of a deduction in lunds dion Jiir 150% uncil toi

mii:con of thi

matical action agents, for publishind propaganda clich

the leilspere, attending intriatiol

risent roctals at Agency direction, ind producius sidlo

pruntairs and special propacinda campaiin.

2.

Artre the cutback in allltity ancialions,rouy

best 1l senbois relocaled in olict areas.

there the delcaations

ties bhich

maintained

in most dalla Arabic..a coun

cold contier with vilious.

Aroney stations

Ob'1

the scars althou i the With is no

Dual the orname dail

oi serive cristence Dri purionnel vero in contiet

Will several J1ve staffers and outside coutinet drunts

January 1905 through LuCchick 1Soi, contact

balo bal personnel vas. limited toltro arents, Man suuel

oratimon buobslorclin dinni

More, and ormando

GECIA Chacon to vs relocated in ll Salvador.

---

## Page 14

TIM UNIONATION COUNCIL OF TIL ANELICAST INC. (SCA)

INCA is a miti Comminet proparmonerniention

tithelcadgun cors in New Orless, thu trols contes Erglish

und toront upaago promatanda tapes andesites on a tonide

vido bass, conducts peblie foruns of ostrentst

polftical mutures etc

Big organ tent tonal impocus and tunds

nonsently come fron vcaltly Nev Orleans figures fueludius

DE. Mion OCUSNER, of the OCHSked CLINIC, and Witank.

ROBBIEsON In recenteseus funds have begu supplied by tho

SCHICH SALPTY RAZOR COMPINY. An INCA letterhoud Tisting ali

the oticers and officials las been roquested from wave,

which has had some casual correspondence with the oranita

tion concorning viss Juanita CASTRO.

Thereis no indication of any aroncy relationshiy

with INCA prior to Jamary 1965 when INCA sponsored diss

CasTro, appenrance in Now Oilcans,At that time an coy

usset who functioned astings CAMos bustis manori

involved with INch offichals in planning the New Orteins

vist wore miss CAStio as diven an aard at a dime

sponsored by licA. The dinner, which was ationded by civic

lacers and representatives of all neus nedit,

shortly aftor Miss cAStro's defcciion and there was

cubicable intcrest in her eppcamance:

INCA bas particularly

interested since it mad distributed mundrcas or unglish

and Spanish language tapes containins her estatenchts when

shic vas burlaced in Vexico. In October 1960 INCA again

requested that wiss CASTRO appcar as a buest sporter in

major merican cities in connoction vith cho velcise of

the INes motion picture production "tiLbk IN maivas"

Following various revicus of the film, Jawave uccided the

lilm would probably becone controversial and it souid bu

incovisable to permit liss CiStRo to accopy the invitation.

Because of INCA's extronist political orientation, JAVE

has wanted tu avoid any nore involvchint between Hiss CISTRO

ancond did the station asset, in his capacityfas business

manager has managed to prevent this.

one

casual contacg botrecnour asset and Fould bUrbEr,

Precutive Vice-President of INCA, since Miss CASTLO'S

New Crleans

tail.

1n the arca pronoting the "HITLiR li HAVaNa" filu.

According to JoAll, Ica officials have never

maichieu in any was that

they are asaefor Arents control

and diraccion of fiss CAsTRo or heruusiniss aucht and tieri

nacation that INch officials have had any orticial

contact withs agents officers.

---

## Page 15

PHONE RA OLUCIONARIO DE TOCRATICO (FED)

(CULIN DENOCHATICEEVOLUT LONARY FROST)

1. Tho IRD wus cretted with Agoney assistance,

guidance and Financial support in day 1960 and corsisted

or womal ants Cistro moups.

The til was forued asta?

polatreal action, proparinda and milieusy unit.

Inirsal

actions consistod of extensive radio and printed propaganda.

dewonstrations, and trips throughout the Hemisphere to suin

The 1D also rudetioned.

ns the front orrantution for recruiting the nonbors of

the lay of Pigs invasion force and carried out a ssive

proman of social asslotunce to brigade: 2500 neubersian

trainins cups and the fanilies:

Althou the FaD hendr

quertois vero basca in biani, delegates wore assignod to

other arcas which included New Orleans, Louisian, Tapa,

Florida, and dexico City, to gather intolligence and

coordinate Cuuan rofuroc activitics.

In late 1960 or carly 1961 the CUBaN RevOLUrrorary

COUNCIL (CRC) was tormed to coordint and diroct inD

activitios and this group was headed by Macucy and White

House spuisoned Di. Joac MIRO Cardona, assisted by Mamel

MeIE and Da. Antonio VAROM Both the Fil and tie Cle

continued to ruction until October 1961 tien thehiD was

completcly absorbed by the ChC in order to avoid the consion

resultiny fron duplication of personact, activities and

Junding.: The CiC niso had dircut access to: President

canedy and top Chite House aidcs.: Because of the minitude

of the rib and Cic operations and the agency participition

An the activities and funding of the ups, i large mdei

of JHAVE and lcadquarters vere directly involved with both

FED and CRC personncl

---

