# 104-10135-10397

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10135-10397°

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

4 August 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

: Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko

Reference is made to Subject's repeated allegations that

he had been given

"drugs" during the period of his confine-

ment by the Agency.

In this regard, the undersigned has re-

viewed the Office of Security files

relating to Subject's

confinement, both at the safehouse in Maryland and at ISOLATION.

Cited review disclosed no evidence that the Subject had ever

been given

any drugs or narcotics other than those which were

prescribed in connection with the Subject's-specific medical

problems.

Below is a chronological listing of those instances where

Subject was examined or visited by Agency medical personnel

while in confinement, as reflected in the Office of Security's

dail

Ii.

20 May 1964:

Unidentified physician

exanined Subject.

27 May 1964:

Unidentified physician

examined Subject, prescribed a

laxative.

3.

10 June 1964: Unidentified physician

examined Subject, again prescribed

a Laxative.

4.

14 July 1964: Dr. Bohrer talked with

Subject.

130,pm

5.

24 July 1964: Unidentified physician

talked to Subject.

6.

29 July 1964: Unidentified physician

talked to Subject.

7.

5 August 1964: Unidentified physician

talked to Subject.

8.

14 August 1964: Unidentified physician

examined Subject.

SECRET

# 77113

EZIMPDET

CL BY 007472

---

## Page 2

4-00000

SECRET

• :

9.

2 September 1964: Unidentified physician

examined Subject.

10.

21 September 1964: Unidentified physician

examined Subject.

11.

24 September 1964: Unidentified physician

examined Subject.

12.

5 October 1964: Unidentified physician

examined Subject.

13.

19 October 1964: Unidentified physician

examined Subject, Subject's pulse rate

described as high.

14. 1 December 1964: Subject's case officer

suggested handcuffs be placed on inter-

rogation chair.

This was discussed with

"the doctor;" who agreed it was a good

idea.

15. 3 December 1964: Unidentified physician

visited Subject.

16. 11 December 1964: Unidentified physician

examined Subject, took a sample of

Subject's blood and urine.

I7.

January 1965: Unidentified physician

examined Subject, described as "physically

oK."

18.

14 January 1965: Unidentified physician

for head sheject, gave coricidin pills

19.

5 February 1965: Unidentified physician

examined Subject.

20.

9 March 1965: Dr. Bohrer examined Subject.

21. 17 March 1965: Unidentified physician

examined Subject.

22..

25 March 1965: Unidentified physician

examined Subject, prescribed

• a laxative.

2

SECRET

---

## Page 3

•23.

30 April 1965:

Unidentified physician

examined

Subject, described as "fit""

24.

3 May 1965:

Dr. (Dickmeyer] (psychiätrist?)

talked to Subject.

25.

6 May 1965:

"Same doctor as before" ques-

tioned Subject.

26.

12 May 1965: Dr. [Dutchmeyer (psychiatrist?)

and others

interrogated Subject.

27. 19 May 1965:

Dr. Gettinger and others inter-

rogated Subject.

28.

20 May 1965: Dr. Gettinger (psychiatrist?)

and others interrogated Subject.

29. 21 May 1965:

rogated Subjéct.

Dr. [Gettinger and others inter-

30.

10 June 1965: Unidentified physician examined

Subject, described as in "good shape."

31. 18 June 1965: Three aspirins given to Subject

for toothache, log does not reflect who

gave Subject the aspirins.

32

25

June 1965:

Unidentified physician visited

site, no indication if he saw the Subject.

33.

23 July 1965: Subject had toothache, given

aspirin, 10g does not show who

gave

Subject the aspirin.

34.

28 July 1965:

Unidentified physician examined

Subject, described as physically sound.

(Changed sites to ISOLATION on 14 August 1965)

35.

24

August 1965: Station physician examined

Subject due to toothache and left pills

(not identified) for pain.

36. 25 August 1965: Unidentified physician and

medical technician gave Subject an

electrocardiogram--physician advised

Subject to discontinue toothache pain

pills, but to remain on the "antibiotic."

3

SECRET

---

## Page 4

4-00000

37.

30 August 1965:

Medical technician sav

Subject due to Subject's gas problem,-

medical tech gave Subject an injection

of Thorazine, and left eleven donnetal

tablets, one

to be given to Subject after

each meal if problem continued.

38:

27 September 1965: Station doctor examined

subject, the

doctor requested that

Subject provide stool sample for next

three days.

39.

28

September 1965: Stool sample delivered to

dispensary.

40.

3 October 1965: Stool sample delivered to

dispensary.

41.

29 November 1965: Station doctor and medical

technician visited Subject--doctor dis-

cussed Subject's medical history at pre-

vious site, and possibility that Subject

may have syphilis--Subject denied.

Doctor

was prepared to do a spinal tap at that

time, to test for syphilis, but

Subject

refused.

42. 15 December 1965: Medical technician examined

a growth on Subject's neck.

43.

20 December 1965: Station doctor examined

Subject's neck.

in tara ga livie soo

(Memorandum dated 21 December 1965:3 Dr. Bohrer

suggested that Dr. Donald Borcherding be nominated

as Subject's "doctor at ISOLATION)

44.

20

January 1966: Medical technician visited

Subject for gas, prescribed pills which

subject refused

to take.

45.

21 January 1966: Medical technician and Dr. "B"

gave Subject a physical examination.

46. 2 February 1966:

Sample of Subject's urine

obtained and delivered to dispensary.

inspirit ini

4

SECRET

"Ідо

---

## Page 5

4-00000

• ::

47.

3 February 1966: Medical technician took urine

and blood samples from Subject.

48.

16 February 1966: Medical technician talked to

Subject.

49. 17 February 1966: Medical technician talked to

Subject.

50.

21 February 1966: Medical technician talked to

Subject.•

51. 1 March 1966: Medical technician and two

doctors from Headquarters, (both of whose

last names started with "B"') gave Subject

physical examination.

3

52.

2 April 1966: Medical technician (Bob Fletcher)

brought a laxative to Subject.

53.

6 April 1966:

Medical technician (Bob Fietcher)

brought Subject a different type of laxative.

54:

24 May 1966: Medical technician talked to

Subject concerning Subject's constipation.

55.

22 June 1966: Station doctor and medical tech-

nician examined Subject.

(During period 23 June 1966-14 February 1967--10gs

do not reflect any visits by medical personnel to.

Subject.)

56. 15 February 1967: Subject taken to dispensary

for an X-ray.

-

57.

31 March 1967: Subject given two ornade

capsules, logs do not reflect who gave

Subject the ornade.

58.

59.

1 April 1967: Subject given two ornade

capsules--logs do not reflect who gave

Subject the ornade.

II May 1967: Medical technician (Bob F.) gave

subject a dose of medicine (unidentified)

constipation.

5

SECRET

7/37

---

## Page 6

60.

19 May niece

19 May 1967: Medical technician recommended

Subject be given capsule (unidentified)

for constipation on daily basis, as well

as some

liquid (unidentified) medication

if required.

61.

26 May 1967: Medical technician looked at

growth

on Subject's ear.

62.

31 May 1967: Medical technician lanced and

treated growth on Subject's ear (sebaceous

cyst) --terramycin pills left for Subject.

63.

7 June 1967: Medical technician changed the

bandage on Subject's ear.

64. 18 September 1967: Subject taken to dispensary

for chest X-ray.

65. 19 September 1967: Medical technician (Bob F.)

took blood and urine sample,

and later. the

same day Doctor "B" and medical technician

(Bob F.) gave Subject a physical examina-

66.

25 September 1967: Medical technician (Bob F.)

checked Subject for a

coLd,

gave pills and

other medication not identified.

67. 1 October 1967: Subject given an E.K.G. by

medical technician (Bob F.)

• The above chronological listing of medical treatment relat-

ing to the Subject reflects the identities of the medical per-

sonnel where shown.

logs as to the identities of the medical personnel who

on done tos of the

No attempt was made to interpret from the

referred to by first name and/or initials.

John

unt

Security Analy

(sIs Group

JSH:hjd

SECRET

6

d.'.

---

