# 104-10102-10047

## Page 1

104-10102-10047

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992/0220

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK

UNCLASSIFIED

MICA

LION TOP AND BOTTOM:

CON

-IDENTIAL

•SECRE

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

Mr. Sturbitts

3C34A

INITIALS

INSPECTOR SEVE

2:546

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarks:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

•PREPARE: REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Returned herewith is the thermofax file

copy of the 27 November 1963 cable (IN

69266) in the AMLASH operation, provided

me to carry to the meeting of 1i June 1976

with Senators Hart and Schweiker.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

.. FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER:

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO

SDBreckinridge/2E24/5527

UNCLASSIFIED

rone, ya. 237

Use previous editions

CONFIDENTIAL

16 June?

SECRET

12953

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET.

placein AMLASH

30.

ROUTING

• DIRECTOR

PARIS

AMLASH

03

SEC. RESENSHEgE: 2713237

DESTSFIZZO PART 1664

TZ 63169266

LAPOR REYNAY PERUMEN CUNSTERRA

UNSIERRA HIGHLISHTS PERIOD 18 OCT TURI 18 NOV 63

1. 31 OCT. (UNSNAFIV16 STATES FORST DIAZ PARRADO TO BE PROMOTED

•O VINISTER RAUK AND RETIRED AT SAME TIME. SHE TO RECEIVE RETIREMENT

ÀY ABROAD CIOS. IN FRANCE), EINSNATU/IZ VERY SITTER ACUT THIS

USUAL ACTION.

39 OCT TAGSTS VISITED BY JAO SANTIASO. FLIOSE COMPLAINS

SEITTERLY THAT GRAYATSES TRYING TO FIRE MIY. STATESUE URITINS LETTER

TO ISPORTANT OFFICIALS IN CUBA "EXPOSING JITUATION IN EMBASSY.

SANTIAGO STATES EMSASSY RECEIVED LETTER FROM ONE MR TOUZET (COMMENTS

LOF TOLIZET LABORATORIES, PARIS, WHO TAKING COURT ACTION FREEZE EMBASSY

HURRICANE FLORA RELIEF BANK ACCOINT. ACTION BASED ON

EXPROPRIATED. TONZET PROPERTY IN CUBA.

SANTIAGO STATES hE WILL

VITOAD RELIEF PIND TROY BANK ON SOOCT. IF ME CAN, LINENA U/16

-MENTIONS EMBASSY MAY MAVE TO MOVE, COMMENT: THIS SIBJECT HAS SEEN:

YENTLOVED SEVEYAL TIMES UNITA POUREON SIT NO DES NUTE WORD IS

-YET. [LIAISON HAS ABEN QUERIED. LUNSUFUIZ STATES MANTO STACIA VETEL

JAS RECALLED TO CUBA AND STATES ME DRIVKS HEAVILY.

He con

Rpr

30 OCT. @UNNATUL? COMPLAINS SITTERLY ABOUT OFFICIAL

3

SECRET

NON BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

Copy No...

76.

\m 12953

---

## Page 3

"TASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN. CANAL PAGE 2

VUTOOG TO MAG 17 HO THE DAMATE UEUOLITICEE STATEO ME MINE

JIS LAO CONCEALED TAPE RECORDER TO RECORD THESE CONVERSATIONS. SHE

INCLUDES PAPITO SERIES CAS TRANGRISED AND ROLANSE

→ NOV. • VILENEDO LAS VISITS. [TELEPIONE CALL PROMEDITH SOREL

IN WHICH SOREL STATES "FRANQUI IS LEAVING ON THE I2TH*

LAMI

SCOUTIRYS THIS, STATING FRANGUI VROTE TO LAY SAYINS ME COMING PARI,

CODE THE PRASUE AND HAVA OL

MENTIOY OF TETE CASTSO AND FEAR CASUISO

WILL TRY TUAK WITH LAM AND UNSNAFU/S? (COMENT: VIA LINRUMBLE/2, PAPI

lin'

Havin

LAN DISCUSSED POSSIBLE TRIP TO SPAL" SUT STATES HS MOULD ONLY GO

MIS" DIPLOIATIC PASSPORT FOR FEAR 3E ADDEST.

CALLE 22100 3731, 337Y 110 "IRAi = 35916. [

STATES ANY DAY NON WE WILL 35 QUEN SORRAYS TO MOUS OUT CS; TUE

21 3A35Y

02

GO 12 NOV. CUISHAN! 12 SOCTS TO JUAN MARINELLO APPOINTMENT WITH

ANSER, FRUSTRATION, AND TEARS. (COMMENTS APFARENTLY FEELS BETRAYED

BUT NO FIRY INDICATION WHAT COURSE OF ACTION SHE WILL TAKE.)

TA 13 NOW. MORE TALX ABOUT PARINELLO. CUESNAFU/IZ STATES FIC

FEELS DESPERATE AND WILL ATTEND TO YER PRIVATE AFFAIRS.

INS'AFU/LE STATES SHE MAY BRING EVIDENCE OF ENRASSY CHAOS AND

02

CORRIPTION MONE FOR SAFCRESPINO AND INGNAFUViR FRICONGACES MER TO DO 50.

AVORES MORENO, N4G VISITING STATES CORCYA MAY WAVE TROUBLE SEINS

-ACCEPTED BI FREVOY IN VIEW HIS COMMINIST AGITATOR PAST. STATES

EGRETE

10;

---

## Page 4

TED MESSAGE

SECRETY

iN 2 200

3

•A CN F7TNO1 A•316537711

APPOZE, EDE HIS NONCUTION, CURENAFUNIR COMMENTS THAT FIDEL CAJTRO IS

HIT YELL. LAPLY HIS TACHT ACKNOWLEDSEPEMT OF

THESE CHANGES, LUNSNAFIN I2 MENTIONS THAT FIDEL IS AFPAID OF MEN

2ECA155

ỞL" TECORDIVSS OF CONUERSATIONS WHICH TOOK PLACE IN 1959

LAMICH UNSNAFITZ HAS IN HER POSSESSION. (COMMENT: NO FURTHER

CLOPIFICATION. AND MAY POSSIBLY BE TYPICAL LUNSVAFU/12 BOASTINGS.

FIRTUE? "COMENT ABOUT MARINELLO ANDCUNSNAFl/12 STATES SHE MAY

MAVE TO VACATE APARTMENT. STATES "LE "ILL FIND

SUMETHINE YUT I DONT BELIEVE WE WILI. BE 1935 FOR "ANY MORE

MONTHS"•

3. COMMENT. SCATTERED COMMENTS THROUSY OUT LATER TRANSCRIPTSTO

-AILY PEOPLE STEM TO BE SAIVING STRENGTY, LUNSNAEVI2 SEEMS FEEL THAT

MARINELLO ANDICORONA SEING SENT ABROAD TO SET DID OF THEM FOR & WHILE.

SECRET KÁROX

SECRETI

---

