# 104-10072-10071

## Page 1

- 104-10072-10071

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Sagara

16 MAY 1968

LTEXORANDUL FOR:

SUBJECT

DiTECtOI

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Ir. S.i. Papich

Investigation in Japan of Report on Suspicious

Actions of Gerald Lee Richards, Originzily

Descrlbed as Resenbling Suspected Assassin Of

DI. dartin Luther stag, dr.

1.

Reference is made to the report concerning the above

subject made by telephone to li. S.J. Papich at- 0930 on 17 April

1968. Following is a full account of the investigation nade in

this case:

A. On. 16 AprII 1968 a Unitea States Netional

Haritiue Undon official in YOschana reported that

oze

Gerald Lee Richards, tho bore a general physical

resemblance to the descrlption given of the suspected

assasSin Of Dr. Hartin Inther King, JI. had arrivea

in dapan about 15 April 1968 and requested a position

aboard any ship golug sayrbere. Pichards becare

agitated when asked for a contact address in Japan

and refused to divulge his Japanese resideace.

The

National Haritine Union official described Richers

as 5' 10" tall, 155 pounds, with brown bair, a receding

hairline on both sides, and a not very prozizent scar

two and one hali inches long traversing the center

forehead, his most outstanding characteristic belig a

disconcertiag, lalotic grin resembling a constant

grimace.

sccording to Richarás' docents and state-

sents, he was born 8 April 1937, applied for seanan's

papers in San Pedro, Californiz, 16 June 1964 and

registered there as a united States National haritine

Union nenber on 21 February 1968 bat never shipped out.

Els Sosial Security Nunber is 552-46-5078; his United

States Coast Guard Nuuber Z 2711-782.

---

## Page 2

1400000

A subsequent check tith the Japanese natloaal

Police Agency confirned the biographic data supplica

-by the National Maritise Union cificial.

Indicated that Richards originally resided in Jagna

from 1963 to 1964 and married JAZAVALA LiChilo in 1963.

Eoth Pichards and his wife left Japan for the United

michards Icturied alone to japan about

15 April' 1968.

States 1n 196% His Fife's address in the unitea Séries

is listed as 160 Hosoi (phonetic) Street, Carpenteria,

California, 93013.

C. A photograph of Richaras obtained fron the

Japanese police was shout to the National veritine

Union official and identified by hin as the individual

in subparagraph lA above sho had applied for a seaman's

berth.

me photograph of Richards bears no apparent

resemblance to photographs of suspected assassin

James Earl Ray providea by the federal burcau of

Investigation.

The above infornation has been given to the Legal

Attache

of the United States Labassy 1n Toiyo.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECIOR FOR PIANS:

Signed: James R. Euit

JAMES ANCLETON

CSCI316/01774-68

DDP/FE/ JKOJO/R:M.A.0 Malley.dsh

Distribution:

2 - Addressee

1 - CI/LSN

- CI/R&A

- CIOP/DO (201-832732) 51y

1 - CFE

1 - FE/JKOJ

• (8 May 1968)

2

---

