# 104-10095-10189

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10095-10189

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

2. 1 MAR :075

MEMORANDUD FOR: Deputy Director for Administration

FROM

Robert N. Ganbino

Director of Security

SUBJECT

Morrow, Robert Dietz

1.

This menorandun is for your information only.

2.

ir. nogus ". muerner, assistant to tae Del, has

asvisod that it. Fred Blumentnal of Parade magazine nad

telephonically contacted him and said that a Robert D.

Horrok had vritten a book entitied Betrayed, which was dua

for publication in May 1976.

Mr.. Blunenthal advised that

he is currently reviowing this bood, and that it contains

some critical coments concerning the Agency, c.s. the

Agency was responsible for the assassination

of President

John F. Kennedy.

Mr. Blumenchal also stated

that MI. Morrow

clains

ta have

been a CIA contract man. AT.

Blumenthal

desired to verify dr. Morrow's claimed

association rich

the Agency, and NT. Thuermer requested that this Offico

review its

files to ascertain whether Mr. MorIow was

in fact'associated with the agency, and if so, what infor-

mation could be passed to Mr. Blumenthal.

3. The Office of Security doss have a file on

Robert Dietz Morrow, boru 20 January 1028 at Pittsburgh,

Perusylvania. Mr. Morrow, as of June 1962, Vas Presidont

of Morrow Products, Iuc.,

located in Baltimore, Maryland,

the sacurity Staff of the Office of Logistics was

granted a Secret contract clearance for use by the Offica

of Connunications on 10 Septenber 1962.

The Agaucy then .

entered into a contract ith jorror Products, Inc., to

produce a prototype of an adapter. to be used with a radio

receiver which purportadly would greatly reduce inter-

forence. A model of the adapter vas delivered to the

Office si Connunications in February 1963, but the devicz

vas found to be vorthless and tha contract

IASE 1903

"'AS

cerminatod.

0 FOR t

SHAN

05 5 1232

123 9111

---

## Page 2

14-00000

bil

4..

subsequently, on 1 Cotober 1953, ile U. S. Secret

Service arrested a

•Cuban exile leader, lario Garcia Rohly,

ir. Morrow and his wils,

Localy, 1o connection dith

piou to clood Cuba tila $50,000,000 in counterfeit 50g0s to

depiess tha Castro econory.

It. Echly was the leader of

this scheme, while bit. Morrow and his wife were charged with

maling the plates for the counterfeit bills.

35. Morrow;

whea interrogated by the U. S. Secret Service, advised that

HI. Kohly suppliod him with a countarfeir 20 posos bill

which hir.

rohly said was offared for sale

I0 hin fron

agonis of the CIA in Miani.

Horrow also stated that

he had bacome associated with a 'certain agent" after

building a derico wich ho denonstrated to this ageney.

The Secret Service was advised in 1963 that tha Agency

did not have any interest in sir. Kohly.

Thoro is no inforation in this file verifying

Kohly's allegation that he had obtained the

counterfeit

bill fron agents of tho CIA.

6. His. Thuermer has beer advised that he nay tell

Sir. Blumenthal that the Agency entered into a conrract with

Morrow Products, InC-, in Saptember 1962 whereby MT. Morrow

was. to develop a piece of eguipment, but that the contract

terainated in April 1963 after the prototype of the

equipment had been tested and found to be unsatisfactozy.

Robert N. Gambino

Distribution:

Orig. &

1

- Adse

1

. D/ Sec

1

- CD Reading File

1

-Subject File

OS/PSI/CoRKFCarrolInf

(18 March 1976)

Retyped KFCarroll jm (20

• March 1976)

z/pl

---

