# 104-10216-10094

## Page 1

1104-10216-10094

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

!

NUY

$ 1955

50%

Direorns

Podoral Bureau of IsractIpation

Attontions 5. 9. J, Papich

TRONS

Costity Dirootor, Moms

SURJEET! I. IrVING DAVIDSOH

MIGROTILMED

MAR 15 1961

COCUMENT MICROFILM SERVICE I

L

1, Referenda 10, mado to previous vorhal diacussions conseriang

sublect, his ammocch to this lgeney, end the five seetings vith his.

held on 30 Soptonhor end 3, 5, 10, and 13 Oatober 1955.

2. The Inforsation contained horola represents e musegos toda

statements side by lublect In the course of the five sootings Ilsted

abovo, as vall as the observations of the igenoy's reprosentativa.

3. Lato in Jaly 1955, H111100 GOTDPIRO, uho 1a se offlees or tha

"City Center Aviation Supply Corpeny, 508 Arch Stroot, Philadalphie,

Fennsylvale, offico tolophone WAlnut 21216, hoso telophone TIrity

7-4,313, called on subjoct.

At that tine Subfoot was in the perket

for eviation parts for the lorid lar II P-51 typo plansa, some of vaion

tone ted by the learegun Air force. GODETC lneu of a fartheasing

euctim of P-51 insta that ves to be hold in Middlotos, lamsylvenia.

thair oversation 1t dovelopod that GOLDEAl bes sald aviation supplies

to lugoslavia for sovoral joers and thet se a revalt of there notititles

no roceived en Invitation to t131t Yugoslenia as a poost of tha lugoslar

Goversant. At to tine GOLDILAO visited Subjoot ha ted allopedty just

returned fron hla visit to INfoslaTLe, Mile in YUPOGlEVIS COLDERS SAY

a good deal of ano loter MHADD INDE, a fOrDer lUfOSleY AsBlatent MlitarY

rowist agenoy.

to the lalted Statos for the purpose of opening a juirit travel agenoy

In Bey lark CIty. MILIDIE nade 1t olesa to GOIINNG that bo 1z8

operating on a saall budget and offered GOIDBUNG a part intorest in the

int:

280-41581

---

## Page 2

14-00000

- 2 .

ho This eprosent, a choto cory of which is attached, spalle

out the carltonts of both futnik end COlDReG. In 1t GOLDBARO 1a

praisod a courtesion of 5 per cont in U.S. dollars of all tha U.3.

and Canedion bastness handled by the sew York City offlon of Petnit

during the perlod of one year, In exchenre for which GolDbait is to

reat and tally equip a tratel off1oe in a carverloat Loostion 1n

How York City, GOLDEKAG 1s to pay the ront for one yeer, surply

tha nacoesary turniture nd a teloptone, end, in radition, pay a

monthly salary of 400 to a roprosentativo of luinik, sent by them

to Now Jor's for the purpose af operating Bald travel alfloe, This

agraesent, valla for one your, does not five CanBiRE ery volco in

the runasement of the travel renoy.

in interestler, espoct of thia

"contreat" la that it to perportadly algned by the direotor of lutalk,

no siganturo, though 1llagiblo, bizro a striking resemblance to ts

signatura of HIALD DISC eS 1t AppEETS On tis arplication for an entas

visa to the laltod States, ss suinitted to the United statos Consulato

la Bolerade In tha summer of 1955, oven to the eyes of one who j8 not

a tashrienl expert in the flald of handuriting.

Tot, in tilo visa.

apploation end in talidny to GOLDEPO and later to Subjoot, MIHADINX

stated thet ba le tha chies of tha foralen UlTialon Of Putalk, end

nowas impiled that ho la the Director of Fatali,

So GODEKTO pointed out to Subleat that he vas not fertioularly

Interested in entering ints my travel arranparent vith Futalk, but,

at tho sens tims, ha dons not vent to offond the lugoslavo, afros ha

baa boan dolaz bualnosa vith them fos several jours and vishos to cas

tires the assocation. On the othor hand, he seld that this travel

assoclation ilght be a lucrativo undertaidng and that 11 vould offer

hia a shanos to mato purely business contacts vith Avariera businesaren

Interested ln angeries in conserolel dellage idth INPOlaTe GOlDBERO

a Subjoot has intoraste end comeotions in the travel flold,

vegested to his that the tho of then could jointly underaito usa eçros

ant as proposed by rutalk, Subject ves interested but wished to b

ansured that thare world be so objeation on the pert of Putalk to his

ASSOCIATIOn VIA GOLDHA. To theratoro spolo to MIRAID IIC by rola.

boss and uns assurad that such an arrangernt ses scoaptable to Putalk.

(HOMAID INDE hed sited 15 the Unltod Statos prior to the ties that

GOLDBIRD first contacted Subjoot end vas repartadly andous to establlat

6. 1t 1113 polnt subjoot said be roalizod that Potnik 10 so

affialal agency of the luposlar Goverzzent md that any inerloan assa

olated with it in the inited Statas would heve to register with t2a

Dopertsent of suittoo as a representativo al a foreiga goverment.

SLSMT

•.

new .

---

## Page 3

4-00000

~3.

Ianssash as fisaslevia 10 a Corrntat country, Subject fauted that

being associntod in a business venture with Yuroslavla riptt not

bo in his bout interesto. Ho thereforo ested t'e savico ci jeck

Harte MIDiRai, uho sharos his suite as offloss in vestineton

end uto, subject reys, 1s a lias! inuts ropronentativo of Parede

BRESSINO ENd A LOP-TAN POT DICH JEJISCH.

ADiTS dt trad Junjaat

to ast this spency for guldance. To this ond AT INSOl urranged

for rubloot to controt a serber of tila lireney end present tia

probles.

As a rosult of this sostle, subjoot was soen erair ly

arothes represertatiive.of this Agonoy to whoa Subject seld he hould

exiline the Ritnti offer in proater dotall bofare committing hissals

ca at the sere time loop tila igoney infordar of the dovolo pasta.

• T Subfoot contacted PRALDIC on theres dirTorent occas tons,

the first tins In fou York Clty on 4 Cotober, the socond and third

Eless in lieshinton on 1l October.

Subject also spoke to HAID TUX,

a mubar of tines baticon those matings by talephona..

In sedition

to se0ing MTAMIEt, Stiject also not and spoke with Seepen NATIBIVEL,

Disastor of thô furooler Stete Torist nirice, 24 ° tato Stroot, Mar

York 4a HoTo, talephone MAnover 2-5380, and vith VoLalaT OPINIC,

assoclated with MATIJASSVII in the Inposle Stato Torrist Offsco.

Acaonding to Subject, the glat of thase seetings end the various

tolopiano convorsations 1s es fallous!

Is attoupting to ascerteds just what MILADDIE

had in mind in the way of a travel arenoy and how subjeot

could benefft fron his associstion with said egancy,

Subjeot learned that MIAMIEs evidently has a tino

11a1t In shich to set up the trevol agency aod shou a

dogres of suddesa in 14s operation in order to rocoivo

on incroase in his operating badget in 1956. It would

appoar thet MIlAN INSE is OperatiNg oR a VETy BEAll

budget and is anger to flad sor financial backing at

Least mt1l be can sake a sucoose of his venture. Moan

subfast questionad the nood for a traval agancy operated

by Fatalk, aises an offielal Yugosley State Tourlet OffIca

warnein

"subfoet stated that HIWIDINE tald hin that fatalt 1s a privato company

end that MATIIISSVID added that 1t vas Bindlar to the Itelian C.I.T. traval

agonsy, Subject added that ho personally bellenes 1t to be a govorment

conser, but that so did not pursue the subject with MIlAlDIHIC and

MET IJASKVIC.

ROSCEN CENTRUED CONTROL

1

:45

---

## Page 4

14-00000

.11

• 4.

ubernes the ofitolal su solar covertsent jourist litico

1s In faot as informatias offloo and not engagod in the

travel lusiness.

Therciort, bott thee offloar ene

Interosted in astablishing the nutrik travel arenay so

nose sa possible, and they both late bon discussin

his problay with subjoot ex COMEDiI.

bo Subjact it first thought that the whole deel

I obtaining noney for his on personal uso iitboul

the lnonladpo of hlo home o5f100.

After sporting to

both HivIlet ent MiLISAVIC, rabisct corcladad

that no dishonesty was intonded and thet the tio 300

basiness.

of the proposos joint uber tarinea.

subfect concluded

that ho did not dosire to get invalvod 1a supportin,

the nou agenay as proposed ly lOHAmIlt, bet he did

think thet Yuposlavla should launch a siblio roletions'

cmpalen in the lultod states, bullt eround the opening

as a trevol spency, subject therefore docicad to

pabllo relations aspert, bo tirel to pusliolse

Iugoslavials tortist attrnations to tha Anarlass.

This, be felt, could beat be done by opening a

araval agonay on ios lark'a fifth Avenua vita a

cocktall party and a blase of publlalty, ulth

Invitattons sent to tho chief of the rufoster dask at

the State Dopertant, the Mayor of Hou Tark, trevel

and pross ropresantativos, and otheto.

Tos traval

agonay voald be staffed to hondlo rublielty roleases,

ensues questions, and in general hoodle coy aspocta

of traval that would be fartbooking. Is also reoc

moded that HIAID IN travel throughout tha Daltod

States and Cenade for the purpose of mating octaote

with the lugos ler colondes in both countrica..

sabjeot

Bald that lugosleria vould soon reap a tozlald bematit

nou of Ete aboat to rOdiVe in the saar future.

2..

MCFORN COXTENDED CONTROL

22:-

402837.

their

---

## Page 5

14-00000

-=.

Subject Bald that HAlDING, HIT WAS VIC rod HOTCHIC

(the last sanad actiny, as the spatcasen sor the tieroe

turing thair last sootiay, with subjoot), sood fully

with him tut pointod out that ery undertaker, no this

type ves beyond their flold of interest, as tiery had

noither the roans nor the sutharity to engago la such

lut es rubloct did not wish to enter Into

may other collaboration with them, they agreed to sabo

1t possiblo Par hl: to neat vith lizaslar labessedor

LoO lATIs end outline his ideas for a priblie relations

sub foot is convlnoad that be will be able

to convinos Aubessador MISS of the soundaoes of his

propos 1t1ns and that MATES will then sponser his 10

Belgilo, saling it possibla far subjoot to obtais

the beating af too lugosler Goveriment es well for

this plas.

8. Subject made it alear that he did not heve the money with uhles

to undertake even the sort of business arrangemat HELID INst bed oried-

nally proposed and that ho Initlally contrcted this irenoy for the purpoco

of obtainirg finencial beckin, in exchange for ery Internation that be

sagut bo eble to obtais tirough the travel agonay, Later, = lie discussed

the problen ulth the furoslars and ulth his contacte in the flational

lesociation of Travol Orranizations, be docided that, miess he conld

coitinos the lagoslars that they should engure in jubliatsing lugoslaria

through a subllo rolations ompales, ha would drop tar satter complotely.

At firat be sald that it uight parhaps bo nocessary for him to undeceite

tha proposed publicity carmain for the first six sonths In order to

convince the lugoslars of the value of such a campaler. la falt sono

that after such a six sonths trial perlod the Ilfoslavs would be con

Toad of the value of his sshere and would not anly take over Bras that

polest, burt would ropey bin for his empersos. Again, at sa does not

have tho cepital that vould be roquired, ho vishad to know 1I this

Agency would be willing to undermito the expenses in return for any

Information that could be obtatned through the travel osfioe.

adrition, subjoct promised to return sald invostrent, which ba that

Noaid rua to 415,000 to $20,000, es s00n 88 the lugaslave repaid bla

He also sade it cloes that he would bo willing to step calde and let

this Agency assign the 10s to 10seane 01s0 of its choosing 19 1t van

falt that this would be the boat way to handle the setter. In the end

Sabfoot sald ho was oarinoed that he really would not be palled ton

to underwrite ery of the expenses, but ta vished to know what ba ocald

expoot, just in cose be did road sosa soney.

"55,".

PiSS

---

## Page 6

14-00000

IF 6. Dono COM3OL

- 6 .

9. Subjeot vas inford that lonsmich as his plens call for his to

nelther gira hia financial assistance nor influance

decision in the natter. Subjoct stetod that he understood this Ageday's

position. He ralaed the quastion of botry briefed regarding uhat ho should

Look for, should be bo invited to lugoslatla by the lufos ley Coverment 1n

consoction with the proposod mblloity campalen. la vas laforzed that his

question ves not pertinant as thare roally was no vey of knowing 1f unch an

invitation sould over be forthcasing.

I0, Subjost's office 13 122%, Hyatt Bullding, Til Ith Street, H.l.,

Hashingias, calaphone District 1-3400.

This is a suite consisting of a

good aise ante room and two small orfices.

Recording to subjeat,

PARRISS 1a not listed in the telephone book, but one l5s, Opel/PAPRIS 10

Listod at 3520 L8th Street, S.Lo, telaphoro Munson 3-5380, This 15

antionad beotuse subjact sheree, with his threo asnociatos, a socrater.

asO firat nana is opal, AlDErSO and BLUelTlal cro the bashingto.

representatives of lirade sagesino, but seen to be using the jotat offloes

only acoasionally, They have a separate telephone line, DIstries Yul,325.

ANDEFS AN aNd RUNNENTRAL GONATELY USE FARRISS' rOO uhen they ste on the

paratrises.

12, Is forture contect with sabfoot la contamplated.

8 653386

Enclosuros Aeroment botween Putalk and HIllien GOLDIERO

28 October 1955

SE/FI/Yugo

Mr.R. VaRadoulovitch/stra

Distribution:

original & 1 - FBI (w/I encl.)

/ - FI/T.I (w/1 enci.)

НИНА

- CI Staff

=

SE/RI (1/1 enci.)

SE/FIR

- SEY

SOMET

MOFORM CONTINED CONTROL

201-41581

---

