# 104-10072-10276

## Page 1

AAA

104-10072-1027

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 19922

APPROVED FOR RELERSE 1903

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PREGRAM. In

July 19631

hopaly i tractor lar courdinarior

Bureau of Laelligenic and dadeaici

hepartmeat of flats

FRIDA

SUAJACI:

JAs Alterpt l knilet ide uncernion of the tried

States íor ie aniods Canile "curules

oy ino membero dd the digonlastion do lAnnes Secreis (225) la

online lae cuppare oó the Ualtod Siates Orrora neat (spacillaally los

Conzral Intolligence Agency, although the saide was sever situally

pronoancee, in thei aparasions agaissi do Ghallo, I to sue sa

Captada tonetre Identifiod blindel le he 1: organiason s

coeráindles el autornal alíairo derriag sador major Pierre jesteal.

Monstra pald that ho larosen the J. 1. sole is shet a coaclucias

Mher governones do coade inpprossing As activitied in lasir

material rappera.

sometre said be intannied a proxiao some

intoration sboss the activities d lls asgasinatias miles met ou

of interest to rte d. 5.

ia Portagado sonstro enplained chat he irarolled on voriono paciferis.

we of than deing a v. S passport.

He claimed in du docamansed

Bo a pairralised sillaen frora Merilalque.

He statod tast ha had

U. 5. cariaete po could arrange decumudia:tos.

2o lhe Cli representire told sonatre thai do Gaille was

ths Chiol of histo of an old and respriled adly of tas J. 5., and last.

the U. 5, had abraluaty no intension of porkiug with suy parsed or

I reup against ina duly cooctataied

SOVErNION OILANE.

5. Arailablo Informalton irom bate paras sad dicial teeac

sourced indicazed thai sagetro la Lae pie si i former fiduce aroy.

captalo año arcaord iron & secondina cany is 1951.

NOTICE!

information, my doc:

ирой competer doüt: t

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

9787

---

## Page 2

14.00.000

are,

nonni audioni do casa.

was bors 4015

Scaler 1930 10

army capan uno his boo spotite so se 110 +6.000590 10 5104

ergoud, under wooni de marnod. neigza, was tris +a

30 June 1936 21 SerietE deco

Guadai so icesica.

fai internalion

an khe denarono si ie ima

1o ina che rapresenialloe hai bees node arenaolo io in: di ricat

AMDAREDISI dI MODON.

5 Ine inelligone intorration on i intenlions xhich sae

provided by soucere mall bo decondoacod so : .06-31602, 107.

cci Foderal Bureau n Intesugatis

6N08-3/776, 7-12

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - fdaresace

2 - FRI

1 - CI/KkA

1 - 51/Liaison

1 - W8/5

1-WF/3

1 - RI

Tetr

inforcat

---

