‘iod-fo07e“t0008|. ~ [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ge

ICROENMED

PRS 496g

7 mero,

. 8 jP

5P

eit: Mexico €

9 March 1968 | StH SACO

Ree;

: COS/Mexic> Cit: acl

~ ee Pre report on PRD activities ¥
FROM : Douglas J. FREAPANE

aly ol |
SUBJECT: Status Report, Project (LIOGLEYLININ|() covering Period

‘ 1 February thr! 29 February 1968 +

ott
I. ACTIONS TAKEN: (1) LIMIX-1
vu

lopies are included as
o this report. This(issue)contains good photographic
national convention of the PRI; an article] on page
on previous speeches by the new President| of the
TINEZ Dominguez; a series-of interviews with po-
ures regarding MARTINEZ Domfnguez on
the future leader of the federal
OPLEDO Santiago, on page 13;and,a “Plug”
Fage, in addition to other serious an
terest. (2) LIMIX-1 "2H o1
see Attacm Lby| wore i
vc ew President of the PRI and '
hich. !
(9)(LI- ol,

uy
“coverage of tl

page-4;-an_antible boostin;
“0 workers ania) £/, Edgar’
for the Olympics on the
light features of\ eeneral i:

ee
the new PRI "oficial mayor", Fluvio VISTA Altamirano, and
s ingluded as an insert with the Attachment A newspaper.
MIX-1 provided the Station with information fromwery’ reli,
sources on the reasons for the dismissal of /Licf/Francisco!
Ochoa from his post in the Presidency and dn ie
% s of MARTINEZ Domfnguez in the PRI. (4!

ob. ol MIX-1 continued a close rela: hip _wi

v6.0 who is supposed to be
tne PRT, (5) The renresentative of .thb.
Mexien City P evi

& group-witn-a_se scaiso-roea tea’ th
vuxrurng—owneu-by the Municipality. cy The group ¢ontinued, |
now with official support, to organize &thlecic-events, show motion |

pictures provided by QKFLOWAGE and the West German embassy |and

ties related to organization of PRI youth activities |in this !

zone of Mexican City (Atzcapozalco). (7) The LIMIX # 4eaded i

by ‘suffered a "temporary loss" of its TV programs and ;

yas_busy trving to find eovernmental contacts with auffici. 24 |

ent power |

O\ ((LIMIX~1 )bo ev ee enc av 99 woo causcu—vy—cne gEsmEssaL-OL-GALINUU
Ochoa from the Presidency26(GALINDO) had given | un-official

support in his relationship with the TV Station management!) tr.

is believed that time can be recovered; however, ©

is also investigacing tne Possibility gf gbtaining timeon

don.

5 Ww Pres
ynieinal Gavernme

i
j

|

a

commercial TV channel and-a radiovst deta) i and(LIMIX-1
continued cultivation of Aide 15 employed 5 )
as ado to/Lic, the J {
Secre X16. “EIN Latso had several poy
ol. H
a\

{4 A

Mey /
Mua <a cs cory, 50-126 -28 2



14-00000 -"

i\
|
a ,
vale vv Vid We
meetings with the, Private Secretary of _ Were
ti (9) Cimrx 4 rt dl
df the 1 wpich 9?
| includéd an interview witlf'the new President gy tne peagracion
Nacional de Estudiantes Técnicbs (FNET) / José on page

6, several articles provided by QKFLOWAGE and/t

embassy as well as other material of interest{too[PN students.

The CEBREROS interview was an "exclusive". )1)) (LIMIX-Lwals able

to obtain one of the 2,000 "tickets" available for the national

convention of the PRI, and attended both day's meetings. (LL)
ol(LIMIX-L)provided the Station with a report on the FNET Congress

nd hig’? narticihation.therein. As a resu a close friend| of a
i

ot (LIMIX-1t was named __
the Preafdent_o > ancl (LIMIX-1) was _named_one of the
resident’! LIMIX-L)continued cohtact

BS ____ she )
With a variéty of political personalities with the objective of
being able to penetrate, the (new PRI headquarters. \z

® 7 : rip A : DAH es 74
II, ACTIONS PENDING: he major pending action is thi
7 ““and/6r.friendships within the nce re sieue

ation ini has solidified to sdéihe degree. For ex-

ample4/L. sits in a sort of "limbo" at this date,
neither out confirmed in a job. However, it would
appear fMTM Mechanism has at least five channels| into

the new\_ which are being developed
for ae priate utilization. A separate,ceport will be prepared
on these channels into the other channels exist to
provide contacts within thd_ _ for Mexico
City, but nothing can be done,until current officers are retired
and the new men appointed. ne . :

III. INDICATIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS: As reported in paragraph I,
#3,°5, 10 and Il.

IV... ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES: Ncthing new to report.
v. SECURITY SITUATION: No security problems were encountered.

VI. AGENT MEETINGS: Meetings between FREAPANE and Cute! were
held ona weekly basis in a restaurant.

ah |
VII. REMARKS: While|_ operations are no longer the priority_0|
operations of fete project ..FREAPANE continues to encoursat IMIX~1)

contact with the because of the continuing,
and even increasing potiticai proviems caused b: 2

thus providing WOFIRM with a continuing possio1jity ror
ancexrsyenee gathering and political action in this field,

Prepared on 9 March 1968 YF —~—>eughos)h. Conabaua

J DOUGLAS J. FREAPANE

