[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

104-10169-10139]

.

a ae OEPaMATS CovER aTtAOSeER To
; o 200K +3404, 33 Jamary 1968

“OREN & 1a ites Janse Brom,
_! o & eosurs:
: WY officer an TY

: H
x,

iia eed



-* (2 CORF> aetiae

5
3
3
z
‘3
2
13

OO unctassirien

IRTERHAL
COvEAMUET pute OF

Oust out
Sesiereen 7.

| t
Heavece TIT
PRT
Paes a:


G) vecassimen | Oj sett +++ 0 CONF aera [secret

Hea )UUMCLAsSteYED
hs

(TONG OFFICE! 19M OATH ai

OS Of seer) cowrvoeraeD

ib Maa



Chief, ex (KPEH

Catet, SH (ATTN
Chief, 6 (ATTN:

Chief of Station, Germany

ADALNLSTHATIVE
Mandling of a Soviet Defecter

1, 1 suggest that the story of ABLADLE, from the monent ne walked into the
howe. of Martin K. HOODINE untis be was eafely under ALMAAA custody in tie Laited
States, deserves coapiling, analysis, afd pudlication in the fore of an Upera-.
tional Ald. It richly iilustrates the ssny problesus «nich aust and can be cure
qounted, and could be nighiy instructive to Cuiefe uf Station in all comtries
here the act Soviet defcator aignt appear.

“de Here 1s the Frankfurt contribution (written at ay request) to euch 8
@ompilation: a eliffnanger from atart to fiaian, but alse e Ovomentary on the
weny types of probleus «hich cen arise, and tne fect tiat.it taxes hard work-aod -
skillful Laprovisation to solve thes. 1t was @ oliffnanger botn before and after

the Frenkfurt chapter (1 nominate MOUDINE for e modal for hie part) and ougnt to
make excellent reading.

od
+ The handling\|of defectors obviously te not a new responsibility to tie
German Station, The OME facility wnioh cxlcte primarily fur the receipt,
eetanlisncent of bona fides, depriefing, and resetticsent of defectors bas oxiatod

bere for the lest decade. Hor is the movement by black cvacuation.of-eperational : \
personnel @ unique task for ve t= perform, We have acuuapiished this many tines nly,
by use of cur. ow, Lntograted WUNIT facility and also by the furnisning of elias ! »'
dcounentation to the person of interest

and accompligning the transport via
scheduled FATS flights. The significont paints which ande the AELADLE case uaique

q may never again in their entirety be duplicated but in part they my uell be,
- and therefore should be enumerated:

a. A Soviet diplomt, and monber of the HIS, stationed in a nen-
Satellite but politically sensitive camtry, rhich at the tine co AELADLE's
defection was wader considerable Soviet pressure.

b. The fact that the actual ciroumtenses unneerntas his ut of i
Gefeotion were such that an imediste decision by tha aa of tus sens nod
to be made to take advantage of the opportunity.

©. The fact that little alter:ative could be given, under the facta
as described in (2) above, excopt to believe the defeator's statements
emi coquiesce in his demands, i.e., he possessed information of a Significant

and perishable nature and would disclose it completely oaly upoa arrival in
the United States.

G. The fact that ones the commitments in (c) above wore aade-every i :
Feasonnble effort hed to be asde to accomodate the defector’s demand. :

e. in order to accomplish all this an untried method of evacuation, 1.0.,
Diack evacuation via coamarcial aircraft had to bye eocoomplished in order to
fwocessfully procead with the undertaking.

4. A retrospective analysis as to how this case commenced,
” fastore connected with it es enussrated above, Lead to suggest for Headquarters
etudy what I refer to as “Yindings” ond “ereas of atudy,” het 1 have lereled as
“Findings” in effect renrerent facts uhich, 1f not orument, quite probably sould
have deprived us in Uormany of participating Swscsssfully in the ovement of the
ARLADIB family, The “areas of study,” un tha other hand, ropresent either anseare i
eble questions or mattora in areas wneroin operational disguasions may well take i
place to soo if eome type of achool-book solution can be devised.

and the unique : i

3+ Iwill elaborate below, where appropriate, on some of these “findings” but d
will firet record then: é :

ony ROUTING
; Hy

‘ He ww wldade

s



ro

TF.

TeE TES

CONTINUATION OF

T TAB
SSCHEP
DISPATCH

H i i :
H RYHAT BoJT-i-4, i January 1 KS

&. Tre eisdom uf AUAKK mmintainirg in tue Ruropoan area at least ane ‘ield
installation having assigned to it persummel representing tue seny cucpetencies
pecessary .m te intelligence Usiertaking «as been recu:firmad.

Dd. The «iscas of oltaining appropriate security cieqiances, and having
Stations brief and masse a:tting cf at least a0 AiS contact, tio resident senior
United States citizen porasanel of Unites States flag air carriers operating
witain any Station's ares.

€. The fallacy cf depending on aarg:nal cr cbcolescest equipment to

accomplish sensitive tesss of nign priority. ve here refer to 17-year C->4 air
oratt,

@. A realizatica that @ retic esists detwcen the muater of pple aade
@vere of & given wxertaking iu rolation to tne chstacles encountered in suscese-
fully accomp.laning tat undertaking.

6. A fox words of elaboration are in order an the four p:enessing pointe.
Because the initial endeavor at olack evacuation ly AUAKA airvaft avortad, ve sere
Given an opportunity to see with great clar:ty the appilention of trese srints. If
the attempt to evacuste by AlLidhK-easigned sircraft bad been successful, then
knowledge of tne defection could nave been ield to appraximeteiy oi: staff and
Qsaigned ailitary personne]. Secause toat erieavor .as unsuocecsiul, at least nine
Gdditional etarf ond a:sitary perecnnel..became-generally or specifically aeare of the
matter, plus the Cansul Ucnereal aad one of his senior officers. Acditionally one
private (mited States citizen, the eeaior Pan American official in Freakfurt, became
Very much.asare of this sensitive case. This increase in te nister of iad :viduale
ceme about wae ef an imzediate noed late in tia evening of Saturiay, 16 Decesber,
to use two(C RZ etatfers to assist in the asfencusing function, # tutal of siz
WATOPAZ staffora (dosuncntation, graphics, protagraphie) to prepare and issue
fraudulent end alies passpurts, and an sosigned enlisted min to act as & safencuse
gvard., The Cunsulate Venere] iad to affix visas to tue fraudulent passporis.: The
Gost erucial Ladividual involved; Kowever, was the Pan American official wo to &
Certain degree put bis position in Jeopardy by being a8 cooperative on the actter 1a
he waa... Without previcusly-having elosred-and briefed this official {ile sounter>
part in TeA ie also eo cleared and briefed) the aiole undertaking would rave been
precluded. It would Lave Leen impossible to coconplian departure without doousentas
tion-on @ comercial aircreft. without the connivance of the commercial airline
Anvolved. Indeed with suan cunnivence it «as diffieult and risky enough. Finally,
the paint conowming chsolcscent equipuent speaks for itself. licadquarters is fully
avare of tho feolings of this Station concerning tue insdeyuscy for cur purpoces
of assigacd aircraft. Suffice it to say that «hen defectors apparently of signifie
cant value refuse te ride such airereft *.< matter merita thoroug:. atity.

7. Tho matter of “arcas of stuiy" appears to us to enconpacs at least the
fellestes :

«Average tise differences in transmitting nig precaonce electrical
geeamteations en end among paiiative growing of ovation. Yoo *
Gernan Station 18 extremely fortunate in naving AW-<U circuits

quarters. It affords va a tmoility for instentanevus commntoation. #@ oun
eake cortain rough estisates as to hos long it might take syaccerinte leade
Quarters officials to anever our queries and we can tion approxiasta the
errival tine of answers to hig precedence traffic. Olner Stations, bovever,
Go not have KN-26 equipaent, all do not have the same type of eryptological
equipment, and there is a different pattern as to the type of circuitry, 1.0.,
direct leased Linea, tux, etratent comercial servics, ete. Wa-telicve ters
de merit in the appropriate Neadquartera unt emleavoring to group geograpiie.
Joally Stations and tien based on-the type cf cammnluations ami -crsptulogioal
equipment and the channel of trennmiasion to cose up with predictions ex to
The averege lengt of time the transmiasion of @ priority er operational
Jemediate cable vould take pet«cen and among the variwwn representative
groupinga. in the case under study, wich represented @ rather fast-breaking

situation, 1¢ ves not pussible for us to salineiw thei thor tics Jt took

to transmit an operaticual lowediate cable netseon| Jana Frankfurt.
Te WOuIG have been of value to ue to have had soe Tes "aa thie mutter.

De Cugmiinatiug belueen U8. Air Atteuhog and CUS. we véelieve it sould
Be worttehile to request each Chief of Statiunin a location snore tno Air

rom Use Pervious tom0N, ’ rao wo,

IMACS FORMS QROKE

————$$ $$ eo

1
4
a



rene aa

CONTINUATION OF |SBCRET
DISPATCH La YBAT

TOS Pee

NuUT-14004, 5k January 1962

Force or Havy has an exsigned attache plane to establish procedures whereby the
Air or Maval Attache «111 advise COS of any absence of the ettaone plane, the
point of desigmntion of tne airoreft, and the duration of the absence. there

(hile in thin particular matters eventually worked out successfully tne
story sight be otherzise in a diff:rent set of facts.

@. Priority furctahing of treces. vhen a Station is alerted to a request
to renter operational support to tne aoveaent of a defector and almltanecusly
& request in the negative 1f it cen furnish traces, tne following
procedure 18 worthy of stuiy. If Heedcuarters puasesses, and time permits, «ea

At wortimnile to forward an imuediate summry to the Station renderiag
the backgroved of the de‘coter is such that it would be @ antter of
interest. This would have been the case in ARLADLZ. As subsequent head-
quartere debriefing developed (and we assumed it sould bave ‘cen disclosed in
Meadquarters traces) AKLADLE had previously deen stationed in Berlin. Had suon

known bere, end ned tise allowed, certain debriefing.on the Kerlin
[ ease scene iit aie emai ear eal sve mea

Se ae

UME previous somioN.

ee S30 aTnActs rom ECRE?

9198, 1)°288 OND 51-29

jannenaanens 7



#~ 0 EOOT-14004, 31 Jan 1962

18 December 1961

EMORUIDUA FOR: ‘The Record

SUBJECT: " Handling at German Station 16 and 17 Decenber of
Soviet Defector from Russian Embassy at Helsinki

1. This wecorandum is designed to record, soon after the event,
all facts pertaining ti the handling within the German Station of the.
Rrmewation of @ Soviet Vice Coxnsg) (and'member of the KIS) frda the
Russian Bubessy at Helsinki. ‘At the tine of this writing there te
still lnoking certain information to complete the entire story. Hos...
Beery it 18 felt worthwhile to record all events while the weaory is
still fresh, In the following paragraphs the defector ia referred to
as "gubjert” and psoudonyms and: identities are uied in all other cases.

tely 0730 hours Saturday, 16 Deceaber, Arnold J.
) contacted me at my home and asked: me. to procesd -
tely to the residence of Joel D. TRENTHAM (Chief of Station).

. ‘8 residence, ART LYACK briefed me..on...
jeable which announced /Stodetic's'a|/intent to endeavor te
from[Stebinélm|to Frankfurt aboard the
ted

also Tankfurt to have an aire

immediately subject and family and take off

forthwith to the United States. LYACK also mentioned an, IN cable froa

DIR which requested(s' | to move family soonest to(CHHEZONE in
for establishment of bona fides, o2

q 3. Yg.tpen #Ajourned to the office and awaited more word from
gitner (Seé OLe,) which would advise on the arrival tine.of-the family
at 6. or from Headquarters conourring in[Stodkhidin's)reauest

for ineediste departurs of tne. family for the United states upon
Qerival aC Frankfurt. BAQB was ineediately alerted and they made
Grrengesente to have a C-54 with augmented crew Prepared to depart ror

She United States by 1200 houra. A oompartment for the subject's
family was put in the C-54 and the regularly asoicned tail nunber wen
Fomoved and a false number put on the airoraft, Conrad V. LAPOLLA
(Aoting Chief, CO8/KUSODA) ues contacted and asked to come to the office
tmmediately. Disoussions were then held with LYACK and Carl T, UPDILL

i @6 to the availability of a KUDOVE case officer with Hussian language
| @f@pability to act as escort.



WZ

; jiaving heard nothing from eitner(Stookholajor Headquarters
by OF5 hours OPIM traffic was sent, in both directions telling them

ra

3. Around 1100 houre I asked Edvard P. TOCHRISKY (Cnier; Baca) :
» to establish contact with the Wiesbaden Ai 3" ower and lay on
_ S¥rargewents to monitor the flight of the(stce ia) Air Attache plane.

‘The wes done because we have had previous instances of “black”
Ha Wale at Wiesbaden sere the aircraft actually arrived before ‘the
ERA cable from (the fctiea) dinpatanine the body,)-At about 1115 hours
TOCHEASKY informed me iy telephone that the/Stockolal Air Attache
atrereft, @ C-45, wan and had been at the Wiesbaden Air Base since. :
led thia information to/Stockhola}’/4-3
Copenhagen tomake

involving air clearances and ‘lengths of rimways,
ly get into any field north of Copenhagen.

6. At approximately 1145 hours @ cable was received from Head=
Qfartere concurring in the imeediate evacuation fron Wiesbaden by EAGB
airereft of subject's family upon arrival. If euch could not be
‘@rrenged we were then requested to mold shoot and femily at CABRZONR.

Th oem (ey

T. Having heard nothing fron to lg) by appruniantely 1600
houre: we egein sent then OPIN traffic Ssking that they inform us
immediately of:their intentions. I had Dreviourty left the office
@rout 1430 hours in order to Some lunch end take ove of one or +
tae parsonal itena. ed Helson'K. POLIAKOFP (Deputy for

+ then current, aitustion. when 1 returned at 1600 hours MUCHANE had
equa into the office prepared for the trip, We then sent the above-
mentioned cable and suczusted that MUCIIANE return to nia quarters and
exait further developments, 1 Phoned ‘TOCHENSKY and suggested that he

WS could not imsc.‘ate:

to his home. I lett word with the Signal Center Watoh Officer that
any incoming traffic on subJact'a irip enould be telephoned tamediately
80 LAPOLIA who would cog in, review the traffic and Contact mm, The



sunieator who in turn would contact

Watch Officer was also asked to impediately phon. the Wiesbaden Com-
‘TOCHENSKY

0 to their office.

and both of them would

8. At approximately 1900 hours LAPOLTA Contected me at home from
‘the Signal Sgaser-and informed me that an Bia and other information was

in froa (Stodkiola])
in, Based on Stoo

,told.him to stand by and t would immediately cone
S's} cabled statement that Martin K. ROODINE Kent
of Station, Helsinit)] was escorting subject to the United States,

“told LAPOLLA not to“élert MUCHANE. I arrived at the offica at 1930
hours and immediately dispatched Peg ere Sergeant to buy certain

‘types of foods and magazines that (Bt:

United States-bound aircraft. We contacted TOCHENSKY and ascertained

‘That EAQB was in a state of iomediate readiness. David

(Cog/MuScDA Office) then arrived with IDENTITY A. IDENTITY A was given
wine me sertefing on the mission and his responsipility following
Nhich be and LAPOLLA took off imediately for Wiesbaden, They: took

with them the purchases of the Guard Sergeant.

9. I then proceeded to the home of Ronald NM. CORBANE (COS Laxyer)
Where we were guests for dinner. At approximately 2200 hours I received

. @ 0011 from LAPOLLA that Bubject-and family had ‘arrived, the turnover

-Was made, and that the EAOS atroraft was airborne at approximately 2150

hours, I telephoned this Anformation to BENTHAM.

20. At approximately 2245 hours I received a call from the
Centor Watch Officer who relayed to me the following meszage from the

Wieobaden Coamunioator. ‘That message stated the BAOH airora:

immediately returning to wiesbaden because of @ sick pas:

Signal

DREIBSLIS (RAOH) in Wiesbaden, LAPOLLA atated that he

° bad gotten hold of the Air Base Plight Surgeon and was proceeding to

the Air Base. He aw at thet time ne other details. I told btm Chester

B. FAGERLND (C09 >
for Wiesbaden Air Base,

12, PAQERUWUND was in attendance at the samc

oa) Cificer) and myself would leave inmod: ately -

Sinner party and we

departed inmediately for the Air Base. Upon arciva at approxinately
2500 houre the EAOB atroraft had Slrecdy lonted and xeximia ‘sea

provisions were observed in the area, Air Police had the

Area” blocked off two blooks in either direction,

urity

“Hergar 34

12. TOCHENSKY met me outside the building snd informed ma thee

‘ously Girsick and suffered reapirs tory diftioultios,

deuanded that the airorart Ammodiately be returned to it:

ne

ministered oxygen. The mo:her baoane hysterical and the fa:

* Ammodiately after take-off subject's pix-year-old daughter had lesome

She vas

8 point

or
of



also stated he coneurred in subsect's feel-
in got together

sion, arrange
immediate safe-housing overnight for subject and his family, and
ettempt comercial transportation on Sunday,

~ =" "" U3. Earlier in the day LYACK informed me that he had cleared out

their Bechborn safe-house in case se should need it. 1 inmuediately :!
tried to contact LYACK by phoae bat there waa no anawer, I thea phoned
Henry R. OAHLINGAY (Deputy

for Adninistration Staff) ond asked him to
do for me the following thinge:

ry tar tenegeesahen Re Lackun (6 ) and tell him wo had
&n inmediats need to nouse
MUSARK vffivere at Kachborn. To further tell LACKLEN to

be otarding by at Opel Circle opposite the Minneapolis ,
Honeywell Butlding at 0109 hours ant Prepared to escort
enother vehiele to Zs:nborn,

Phone ESWTHAM and tell him we wouldidrop by his house
later thas evesing to brief him on any developments,

0. Phone CYACK and tell him we were using Eechborn,

14, All conserned departed Wiesbaden Air Base at Approximately

houra on 17 December and arrived at the meeting point at Opel
Ofrole at exactly 2100 hours, Subjoot's fantly plus MULPALL, who had
aloo gone imediatery +9 Wastatsa, followed LACKLEN‘s car te Eeshborn,

PAOERUND, LAPOLLA, ROGDIRE, and nyszelf went immediately to BENTHAM's
. house, .



5

15. BENTHAM was then fully briefed on developeents and RODE
gave certain operational inforeation of a senaitive nature froa subject
to BENTHAK. After necessary analysis and discussion the following
Gecisions were reached: pasar =

@. We would endeavor to remove the family out of Prankfurt
by Comercial airoreft that day, i.e., Sunday, 17 Deceaber.

be. In the absence of the ability to accomplish this, we would
@fMeavor to remove them un an Air Force Hodical Bvecuation
Plight on Monday, 18 Deceaber,

@. C2neph Q. KLEMACK (Chief, COG/KURIOT) was contacted ty
phone from HENTHAM's residence and said he. believed that
his people could affix in the subject's passports a
Tush: . ederel Kopublio entry staup, Thio was considered neces-
: : sary in order to provent. eabarressing questions by German Sesrertoest
Amaigration Authorities on Sunday wien the family would
Gepart by commercial air. The family had entered the
at Federal Kepublio “black” and accordingly tere was no
5 entry porait in their Soviet Diplomatic passports.

|
|
zt

nt 4. We would return LAPOLLA and ROODINE to the eafe-nouse ana”
ter I world aloo send out one enlisted wre with sidearm,

16. A cable to Hosdquarters was drafted onthe basis of all this
tnformation and everyone departed the SENTHAM reaidense for their

Fespective missions. I proveeded to the Signal Center and reloased the
érafted cable.

« 47. I arrived back at ay quarters about 0330 hours, At about 0410
hours I received a call from KLEMACK, wanting to.get in touch with
LAPOLLA cn mattera pertaining to the doounentation work he was trying
to acoomplian. I gave him the telephone nusber of the Eschborn safe-
house. It tumed out that the cold weather had affected telerhone o
mmicationa to Rschhorn and the oh 7
te Rechborn and discussed nis Leia with LAPOLLA and KOWINE. I aa
- dnformed, but as yet do’not know tho teannioal reason why, that KURIOT
ecuid not put in the subjoot's passport the required German entry etam.
It was decided at the meeting at the Bsohborn safe-house that KURIOT

would try to make and have ready by tlie next bait ]passports

for subject and his family.

16. At about 0600 hours.I received a call from the Signal Conter
Watch Officer informing me that Headquartera “approved your plan." 1
demediately tried to contact the Eschborn safe-house by phone but te no
Syatl. Arount 0670 I ocutacted KLUAAGK at the Aitiur installation and
wag then informed py him of hia earlier viait to Eschborn around 0400,
He told me during hs phone conversation that LAPOLLA was going to get
‘up about 0700 hours, I surmised that LAPOLLA would proceed immediately
to the office and then did so myself,



ee ; 6

=) 39. LAPOLLA arrived at the office jowetime shortly after 0800.
‘then discussed wnat our possibilities were, bas situation as «
we then sae it. We nad no gurantee that
be finisned vy AURIOT in time to be used by early
Btates flag comercial Jet. ke discussed again, as we nad the rrevicus
william Naylor,.the Pan Anerioan Senior U:fieer
red and witting contact, as to whether or not he
board passengers without going through German Ionigra-

Urgency and ask him-to come imediately to the 1.0.
-- @igouss the matter with us. The Phone call was mad
to do this, LAPOLLA then contacted ti

and Naylor agreed
MATS Office at khein/Main to

Carietnas leave. . No ranilies sould be sent on the flight. Inasmuch Lad
© C-135 io the military cargo version of. a Boaing..797,.LAPOLLA and syself
: Gisovaned seriously the advisability of endeavoring to get military
XN aa authority to fly this family out. We decided @gainst such course of
“ ection for several reasons. We antioipated that there would be too
twoh conversation anong the single military personne! aboard the flight
when they observed five oivilians, three of shox were obviously »
fently, flyirg on the sane plane. The fact that the aix-year-old
daughter spoke no English also Contributed to the adverse situaticn we
@ntioipated. Secondly, aubject and family had already been aboard one

argo type atroreft.and were reported ty T\00DINE to have made a series

'e procedures and we had no guarantee

tion by flight departure time of

PAA No. 73 at 1315 hours, We then asked him what he considered to i+:
the possibilities of working out « proceaura to board the party “black”

Bnd to provent any divulgenos of their existence te the Geiman Inmigras

"thon Authorities, Arter considerabic Algoussion it appeared that there



. bad
family %o the airport. LAPOLLA accordingly took off for Eschborn and

» G40 not look as if we would hat

‘. because there was no way »
s without going throvsh Passport Contrel, LENTHA‘T eaked how we evaluated

eraft and successfully cirounvent Oerman passport controls. Naylor
contacted his own assistant ard the PAA Uperations Officer aspigned to
Rhein/Main, both of whos are United States citizens, and asked that
they proceed to the airport and stand by to assist him in tne nandling
of sowe very important personages vic vere departing an PAA No. 73.

He then ascertained that only three first class seats were available
on this flight. He told his assistant to seat two passengers in the
eiroraft lounge and he would accept full responsioility for it. This
10 somewhat touchy in te airlines business as lounge seats have no
safety belte. He also knew additional first class. seats were available. -
out of London.

1, In the weantine, KLAMCK and one of hie sen working on the

Pictures of subject and
The

‘ts family that would be neceseary for the P:saport.
dest reading we could got froa the KURIOT people working.on the doou-
Wente was that they would not be ready on time. Inasmuch as decisions

been made, we decided tc set the wheels in motica and started the

@ plan was agreed upon where he would arrive with the family in front
Of the Rhein/tain Departure Hullding et 1230 hours, Naylor would be’
tanding by the entrance and take the family via a circuitous airport
route to the PAA Operations Office which is located on the

joond fl. of the building beyond Passport Control. Naylor departed
et about the same time as LAPOLIA and went directly to the airport.

7
existed & very good possibility to get. ths» passengers aboard the aire | eee
i
i
i
i
I
t

L

22, Earlier in the morning I had asked BENTHAM 1f he could effect
arrengoents at the Consulate to have a Vieo Officer standing by to put
United States visitors’ viess for subject's family inthe pase
ports. Ba:cHAM accomplishes this and, at Naylor's sugg:
Af the Consulate Officer could go tothe PAA Operations Gffice at Rhein/
Mair, and stent by there to asoamplion his visa serk. ‘Ug 60 Going we -
sould sive spproximately 50 winuios time, .1 contacted Mr. Rollie White
of the Consulate office and he agresd to mect us et the airport at
3255. houre.

23. I next phoned BENTHAM ond made hie avsre of our situation. It
any wwieble doounentation to pasa the
fenily and would have to taxe orance of uirwurventing the Passport
Control. Our principal concern was that a Geruen Inatgration Officer
would be standing by the aircraft doparture area and would agk to see
subject's passport. Wo could not get subject's famtiy aboard the
Fegular bus that gees Zrom tne departure putlding to the aireraft

nould got them to tno buy loading area

an ability to withdraw gracefully at plane side if enallenged by German



authorities, I told him the chances were better than even and that ve
would appeal to the fact that this was a VIP party being handled out of
the regular airport procedures and that the passports had been left in
the PAA <ffice. he would then. put the party back in tne vehicle’that”
took them out and Just keep going. -BGMTHAM authorised us to proceed
With the “black” evacuation.

a, I then made one last call to KLURIOT and told hem if they could... -

ROL complete their work and get the passports to the airport by-1315.
houre to forget it. with that MULFALL and eyself left for Khein/Main,

35. We arrived at Rhein/Main exactly at 1250 hours as subject's
party was drawing up. The group sas then taken by @ ciroultous route
Xo the PAA Operations cffice.. It-«as cacertained that PAA No. 73 would
arrive at 1245 hours, approximately thirty ainutes late.

26. During our wait at the PAA Operations Office, ROWDIME got me
@eide three or four times and kept me continuously amare of subject's
foar that an attempt vould be cade to sabotage his plane. te aad
evidenced this concern ever since his arrival in Frankfurt. © Subject
told KOODINE he felt sure that Soviet agents would be found among some
Of the employees of the ccemercial airlines and the aanagenent of Khein/
Main Airport. He mentioned the section of the RIS that. works specifically
On assassinations and sabotage. He was fearful of. any baggage being
loaded very late or any “spare baggage” that might be fund aboard: the
@iroraft. I told ROWDINE we were very sympathetic but we were not about
to ask Naylor, who had now gone much furtner than one could be reasonably
expected to on our behalf, to off-load the baggage of 184 passengers
and search it. :

21. Two events happened while we were waiting in the offies to
board the parties that were of some disturbance. The airplane Captain
reported to the PAA Operations Officer that a gun was found aboard: the
Plane. Upon investigation it.was determined that thia gun belonged to
an Armed Forces courier who had oarricd classified material on the aire
ereft to Frenkfurt. Ths cirpisns captain, upon being evked by Naylor
if there pad been eny unusual activities on the part of the passengers,
then described cne party flying in the first-olass compartsent, This -
flight cod eriginated in San Francisco and was flying around the world
Weatbouid. At New Delhi a United States citizen, @ correspondent for
@n unknown newspaper, boarded the plane with his wife and a female nurse.
‘Tha flight orew had bean informed that he was en alecholio ard was being
Fetumed to tho United States at the request of the United States Embassy
@t New Delni.. For part of the trip he had acted in scsiowhat of an
obnoxious fashion oii had insulted some of the other passengers, The
Oaptsin had investigated the situation and was of the opinion that the
Correspomdent was now sufficiently drunk and Jacked sufficient etanina

i



to fasult anybaty. T sacked the Captain 1f there was « purser or a
male attendant assigned to the first-class section, oe
portioular flight all cabin service Perscnnel were ferle. : ae

however, tnat anather PAA Captain was flying dead-head on :

trip in the lounge to watoh the correspondent. IDENTITY

greve reservation about now going forward with the trip pecause of the i
Romesbondent. It was ay opinion, however, that “between 7

-ROWDDG, and the extra PAA Captain that if the corres;

$o% ctnaxious they could auffiotentiy cope with hia,
stain left tne definite iapressicn with oe that the a, t a
“@uffieiently drunk, that he would eitier soon pase out or in any event

Would not represent a threat to Subject's maxing the trip,
therefore, decided tnat the trip would proceed. ~ IDaNTITY A informed
(he Captain iat ne was a United States Covernsent representa:

Sng @ family aboard the plane and req

'y started to enter in those Dassports tho United dtaces
Visitor's -vicss, at epproxizately 1355 the FAA Ground Crew Gisiet
Rotified PAA Operations that Plight No. 73 was mechanically eleared for

ure end completely loaded. At that time a PAA Peyrener* tive
started to rm from the Deverturs i

Piece of lussase. Naylor wan

beck to the plane. He later told us he opened
flight beg variety, and on his om initiative
Xt contained itens of @pparel used by ladies
identified, i

hy the plane was being held up. It being -
White bad not finished all the entries cz the Passports,

mea the Ground Crew Chief that





Fw. |
2 SCOR y Noor

25%€s 1352 . \

8/0 ATE B 50 Eo0R-14008, 94 den 68 .

Pe po,
To chter, an Ate IMpee
ATM Sherean 0, CUgICK :
FROM Ohter of Station, Germany

