‘od 10408-10768)

{ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

CTERPG 1561369 31616352 ISP)

Se FT
@ fia “ SECRET 3 poe fee
i aD 10 C/EUR 1635Z
= :
aCTIGN: C/LATE JuFO: FILE+ VPe C/EUFS6, OOPD-De C/CG/O"S,
o

7B 1501369 PAGE O01
TOR: 141633Z SOV 7B

SEC RET 1416082 hCV 76 STAFF

cite (EAoRIO) 41941

9
i=)
© = to: PRIGRITY DIRECTOR INFO
t=)
e

xIco CIT

(SRG RYBAT AKULE KOAFGHAN

REFS: 4. DIRECTOR 323590
B. DIRECTOR 329426

1. STATION OFFICER SAX KDAFGHAN/1 (K/1) 14 NOVEMBER
TO ADVISE HIM OF HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON £SSASSINATIONS
(HCSA) DESIRE INTERVIE® HIN, K/1 DOES NOT #&ANT TO TALK 10
MCS£. HE BECAME VISIELY UPSFT AT PROSPECT. HE ASKED
REPEZTEOLY THAT KE PLEA TRY TO ULDERSTARG HIS POSITION,
HE BAS CGRTINUEL TO RECEIVE HARASSING AND SOPETI®FES THREATEN@
ING TELEPHONE CALLS STi LAST SUMMER'S EXPOSUPES (L4ST CALL
BAS THO REEKS AGO) 4D FEARS FOR HIS PERSORSL SEFETY IF THERE
e IS MORE PUBLICITY. HE SAID HE HaD TRIED TO STERT A new LIFE
It SPAIN (HE IS MOr A SPANISH CITIZER = SIECE MARCH 1977),
AnD THAT HE CARE CLGSE TO BEING FIRED FROM HIS JOR-LAST
€ SUSMER BECAUSE OF THe EXPOSURES? HE FEARS THAT MORE PUBLICITY
S

COLLD MOT BE AVOIDED IF HE WERE TO TALK TO HCSA, ANC THAT
THIS COULD RESULT IK HIS LOSING HIS LIVELIROOD ANC FORCING
HIM TO LEAVE SPAIE, sHICH HE DOES NOT SANT TU DO. HE ALSO
Sc aineline THAT HE HAS AEVER ADMITTED BEING INVOLVED “ITH
tet AND THAT IT IS ThE CUBANS® SOPD AGAINST HIS ABOUT
S THAT ACTIVITY. HE SAID IF HE ®ERE TO ACCEPT Ak HCSA IKTER~
VIEs HE SUULD IN EFFECT, ARE. ACKHOSLEOGIUG THAT HE DIG INDEED
COOPERATE WITH exe, AND HE FEARS THIS vGULO HAVE AN
ADVERSE EFFECT OW KIS PRIVATE AkD PROFESSTONAL LIFE. HE
DESERVED THAT HE DGUBTED THERE IS ANYTHIRG HE CUULD ACD TO
RHAT HCSA MUST ALREADY KNOw, AS HE ASSUMED HCS& vUST HAVE j
ACCESS TO ALL THE RECORDS. 7 f

¢

Se

o SECRET é
S

=)


13-00000

wana ny,

7 @ 6:@ © oO oO ef
|

ee 6008«8@ «6 «8

SECRET :
STAFF
78 1561389 PAGE 002 Ik 1561389
: TOR: 1416332 NOV 78 GPRD) W944

2. K/1 IS EQUALLY AS RELUCTANT TO TALK TO HCSE OUTSIDE
THE U.S. AS IN THE U.S, FE OBVIOUSLY FEARS FCR HIS PERSONAL
SECURITY AnD HIS CAREER #ITH BERLITZ. HE SAID HE HAT PLANNED
TU VISIT THE U.S. OVER CHRISTMAS TO SEE HIS GRETHERS burt
THAT HE HAD EVER CECIDED AGEINST THAT FOR FEAR IT WOULD BE
CONSTRUED AS hIS HAVING SOME OFFICIAL U.S. CONNECTION,

3. FILE: 201-0288248. E2 1MPOET
