[104-10186-10207| [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

, [NEORMATEO NARECORTAMINEOR
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Thus tostectal ccutains lnformetion afecting the Maticaal Defense ofthe United States within tbe meaning of the Kapionses Lave Tie
MUSE Reco 190 apd TH tbe traaemimica et rereiation of which in any manaer (0 ea unsutbertend person te prohibited by lew.

Q SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00535-65

COUNTRY Cuba.
SUWECT "Mixe™ (an alias) cate ost, «=«S February 1965
AB :
: oo NO. PAGES L
aun’ p20"
\-4 oun REFERENCES  CS-311/00115-64 (page 7°
8 July 1964

DATE OF pone : .
INFO, 196%. : CSCI-3/782, 653

race a Washington, D. C. 26 June 1964
* pate aca. January 1965 FIELD REPORT NO.
WIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 13 TENTATIVE.

source: A forner Cuban IS officer who serve. with the Cuban Intelligence fa
Service autil April 1964,

leadquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source anc includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the incividuals mentionec in the personality reports without i
first checking with this Agency.

1. "Mike 4s the Deputy to Ramon Cesar CUENCA Montoto of
the Departmento Ilegal (Illegal Department), Central America,
: of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate
of Intelligence - DGI). He carries credentials of the Cuban
Ministry of Interior and travels on.a ciplouatic passport.
As of April 1964, “Mixe" was still {n Cuba,
2. “Mike,” is a Cuban citizen, was born in about 1937.
Ue is approximately sive feet six inches tall, weighs 150 pounds,
and has a medium build. He has a white complexion, short,
curly, dar brown hair, small brown eyes, and a pock marked face.!

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable va
information on "Mise."

HN ee

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

wae___low Tam Twavy Tare Tra TREX Teer TFBT
REP__CINCLANT _CINCSO_# JENS
(Hote: Fahd d.rebyton indicated by 7 2~. ~

Ree ore neces
[wi2Sa MOsl Y Sper
: cL t i : i ft £
éSA CLL : tein x.
WH/WAVE_Lt -

era

vorsuwH, SAS (1), WE 1 (2). C1 4.

