# 104-10012-10066

## Page 1

1104-10012-10066

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN E KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1.

Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap

and forward to IP/ADB.

" 2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records

significant action taken or comments requir-

ing preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

It tile no. and title shown are not proper,

insert proper file no. below and forward

document to IP/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

IP/

AUSTIN BOB

IP/AN

EXT. 4239,

GX-274

GA50

TUBE GIT

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

ROOM

NO.

DATE

OFFICER'S

TOMWAR AID

INITIALS

RECEIVED

2 DOT 1972

Chork

21972

Documont Number 1182-998

for FOlA Reviow on MOV 1976

5.

Edger

Carol Barr

12 OCT 1972

WH/ICA/BUSTOS

9.

10.

12.

2C17

13.

14.

IP/AN-AUSTIN

06т

TURE GIT

15.

16.

17.

IP/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

ABSTRACT

INDEX

DATE MICROFILMED

FORM

6-21

6100

OBSOLI

PREVIOUS

DITIONS

Any Datashed

Charlotte pla aduce

M4. Dooley of cistaff of

thes mog.

ANG

1713663 1

isr

BK

10+13

FILE TITLE

lo- fina: crococaine.

PAS file in

201-289248

Thanks

a. Echooter

+ 1138736664

E NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

1201-289248

DOCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER

UNMA 42347

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

10

UNFO.

FROM

Chiet of Station, Mexico Cityfi

SUBJECT

TYPIC LNERGO - Transmittal of Memoranda

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action: Information only

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

1.

Transmitted herewith are two memoranda concerning

the request by a

• U.S. lawyer to examine some photographs taken

in September and October 1963 of an unidentified American

entering the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

The 18 September 1972

memorandum is from local LNERGO and provides background -- related

to an interest in the Lee Harvey Oswald

case - of the

lawyer's request. Our reply, dated 19 September 1972, is self-

explanatory.

2.

It appears likely that the lawyer concerned will pursue

his interest in the photos, and therefore we want you to be aware

of his request.

Document Number

1182-998

for FOlA Review on

NOV 1976

Grover E. CAITHAMER

Attachments:

As stated h/u

Distribution:

Orig. & 2 - Chief, WHD: (w/atts. h/w)

:; ".

CROSS REFERENCE

Rat/s

COPX

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA - 42347

SECUAT T

???

"

ImPpeT

date ir crast)

i:

N: E 216h,15

DATE

19 September 1972

MOS FLEE SE

201-289248

.:..

---

## Page 3

13-0,0000 .

SEGRET

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Mr. Robert I. Nischwitz

Legal Attache

FROM

SUBJECT

: John Horton

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

(105-3702, 9-18-72)

The photographs which your memorandum of

18 September 1972 requested are not in the files of

our office. They may of may not be available in

Washington. If you are interested in pursuing this

matter further, the best bet is to initiate the

request through your washington liaison office.

Distribution:

orginal

- Addresses

No. 15,406

- Memo Chrono

- Headquarters

Originator:

DATE: 19 September

• 1972

CS CORY.

201-289248

abtollh40+6 464229-42347

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SEGRET

Date:

To:

From:

Subject:

September 18, 1972

Mr: John Horton

Robert T.

Nischwitz

Legal Attaché

LEE HARVEY

OSWALD

(105-3702,

9-18-72)

This document is for the use of your agency only and

neither it nor its contents should be further dis-

tributed, nor duplicated within your agency,

without appropriate authorization.

Re your memorandum #15,237, dated May 24, 1972,

in response to my memorandum dated May 15, 1972.

Again, under the

"Freedom of Information Act"

Attorney Bernard Fensterwald, Jr. of Washington, D.C.

has requested "twenty photographs of possible white male

Americans who had been in Mexico City during September and

October, 1963" which were shown on February 20, 1964 toy

Mexican resident Pedro Gutierrez Valencia in an effort to

determine if

Gutierrez might identify any of these unknown

individuals as the person he previously identified as Oswald,

whom he claimed to have observed at the Cuban Embassy, Mexico

City, on October 1, 1963.

Americans who had visited the Cuban Embassy during September

as of the person he had seen there on October 1, 1963 and whom

he believed to be Oswald.

Also furnished to this office with

the aforementioned twenty photographs were the three photos

Enclosures 2.

SECRET

GROUP 1T

Excluded from automatle

gowngrading and

dechessification

Not

aur

at 123/1010

---

## Page 5

13-00000

-SECREF

of the individual who visited the Russian Embassy, Mexico

City, on October I and 4,

1963, as referred to in my

memorandum of May 15, 1972. Those same three photos were also

previously furnished us by you on November 23, 1963.

The twenty photos referred to above are not now

available in files of this office and they may have been

returned to your office after they were displayed to Gutierrez

Valencia.

t is requested.that you advise if the twent

photographs are presently available in your office, and

If not, where they may be presently located:

In the event they are available through your

office, can they be made public?

Enclosed to assist in expediting your reponse are

coples of your memorandum, May 24, 1972, and my memo,

May 15, 1972.

2

Q01-289248

---

