¥

T OF 1992
ae {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. RENNEDY: esseeS NATION RECORDS per y J

easter : : : : este
ie a FERS ncn <P 0 eure EN a stn mre einen AINE TALE TE

OO & a
»

@rr-s 21 October 1970
Bh

MEMORANDUM FOR: AC/WH/cOoG

SUBJECT 3 Release of AMCALL-1

1. The negotiation for AMCALL-1's release was completed
by AMECRU-1 on 26 August and $120,000 ransom was paid to the
Cuban negotiator in Paris at that time. $79,000 of the ransom
was provided by the Agency and the $50,000 balance was paid
by representatives of the Catholic Church. AMECRU-1 anticipated |
AMCALL-1's release would be effected within two months from the i
time the negotiation was completed. If the Cubans meet this

tentative time schedule, AMCALL-1 should arrive in Madrid by
the last week of October.

there would appear to be no cause for alarm that nothing further
has been heard about -AMCALL-1's release. Although AMSIGH<2-was
released within one month of the time his ransom was paid, AMRIPE-2
was not released for two months.

: Et o Deneve
Nancye S$. Gratz
WH/cOG/sA



AMCALL /2/
201--275949 201-061063
SEX M DOB 2 MADR-02004

10 SEP 70
cit?

occ 2..-

R 7010020223

|

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

sity 67 ve



Caste SECRETARUT Oisseuniation * _-Couassimen Messace- Torat Cones
Pemovint won

SECRET en
(hen Filled tn) SETS

woe (ves Eno
= i
vw waneen PRECEDENCE
O meso CO aerm ro ema eee
wa
i
SECRET 241245Z AUG 78 CITE WH/MIAMI 8681 CREBECKER ACTING) ;
PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO MADRID :
RYBAT TYPIC AMECRU AMCALL 4B 148664
REF A DIRECTOR 661365 or i
; B WH/MIAMI acai (t~ pace ci

1. GORDON M, BINIARIS ADVISED STATION THAT WIFE OF
@NCALL-1 TELEPHONED AMECRU-1 TWENTY THREE AUGUST STATING MONEY
BEING DEPOSITED PER REF A. AMECRU-1 STATED HE WOULD PICK UP
MONEY TVENTY FOUR AUGUST AED MEET WITH PBRIMEN OFFICIAL CHO
RAME STATED) ON TWENTY FIVE AUGUST. NO MENTION MADE OF
$5,008 EXPENSE MONEY DURING CORVERSATION. HOVEVER, WIFE OF
ANCALL-1 WROTE LETTER TO AMECRU-1 ON SIXTEEN AUGUST EXPLAINING
_ SITUATION PER REFS,

5 Be AMECRU-1 FINISHED CONVERSATION BY STATING THAT HE

ALMOST SURE CASE TO TAKE SAME COURSE AS THAT OF MIGUEL GARCIA,

_T.E.y RELEASE IN TWO MONTHS FRON TINE TRANSACTION COMPLETED.
3. FILE: 261-061663 AND 261-275949. GP-1
SECRET’ :

a. i "SECRET



SECRETARIAT Dissenination _C*\urieo Messace

(een Filted In}

OER:

vero = —RECEDENCE

Omens O Betues to

oranen

SECRET 271258 rE 78 gee WN/RIART 8126 <EEBEC CKER

PRIORITY DIRECTOR

RYBAT AMEGRU ANCALL. )
REF WH/MIANI 8681 ‘ost (7 14966

1 WIFE OF ANCALL-1 RECEIVED CABLE ow TvENTY MIX AUGUST FROM
AMECRU-1 STATING “CUMPLIMENTADO".’ POUCHING COPY.

2. FILE: 201-275949. GP-1
SECRET

2Ol- LISIY9

“SECRET

