'104-10173-10160)
poset scatstaa

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
ee 7 — : :

7

ot

ae pFtETURN TO. CIA |
Background Use Only
7 Not Reproduce

ae oFORY

bs) & Director id
Yodaral Burves of Investigation 8
Attentiont Mr. 8. J. Pagdod anit

i: q

BROT: = John
Naz df Cw

1. Raference is ante to your menorandua of 11 August 1960, your
filo no. 100-370750, entitled Joh Howard JAHSOK, Internal Soourity = 0.

2. According to.dogamentary information dated 11 Jamary and
13 February 1961, aoquired fra a wwudlly ‘reliable source with access - -
to the information, the Cubsn Institute of Hotlon Picture Arte and.
Ingaatry_has_expreesed #4 Vintersat in-baving Joha Boward LANSOH,. a ~<3c'
resident of California, go to Cuba aa-a teacher and writer in the duban
movie industry. To facilitate LANSOI"s correspondence with the. Institute
in Habana he has béen given the Qddress of Sofia Garro dy YELASCU,
Patricio Sanz 36, Dopartanento 6, Naxica 12, DF, Xexico, His mail |
PRORNZA’ Proonsa, Cultural At! of. the |
Cuban Enbsszy in Yoxico, for forvarding to tha institute, jehannel
pondenve hap alvo been arranged for Carlton HOSS, whoo address
1827, Hollywood, Califoriia, The institute has requested
“Hi, “Tae Bouse on Cedar U1", of any rélated docuamtatios.

3. The above information should not be disseninated outside your

Buresa without prior ocosultation with thir Agency.

k. Tor additional tuformation casoerning Carlton HOSS, you are
severed to your masorandan of Is Apes? 1958 }) Maahington Field Office Fle

5. This office has no additional pertinent infomation concerning
Bubjecte. : E
€901=3/76, 707

co: Departaant of State

er, geeneTincrON AE

zat, PBUJFK TASic FORCE et MOO

7 ale el

A RELEASE IN FLL
RELEASE IN PART

Ol TOTAL GENIAL



SECRETINFORY

-2-

03
w/a /afArsnsddsae
Distribution:
Origs & 1 ~ Addressee

@

SECRET,

|

KOFORN

_ 6 Apri, 1961
BASIL HGHA~16L50
: HNL-16626

| PROJECT: LIBIOUT

lpbel

HA SEO RB

