10211-10113) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992] i
Z t
o . : } '

"™  Caief of Station, Mexico City

Actlont Mons. Yor Honiquarters' inforastion. é ee
Ref § BIMA-22067 dated 8 October 1965
1. There follows the eonthly oparational ruport for Project LXGWOY :
ectivities during October 1963.
2. Dasmsh Lings - October 1963 j ,

i
;
I
BR
I
i
i
§

3+ Rroseealns of LEaTOL Information
‘There vas no change in the processing during this reporting pertal.
S. Realoitation of LUQOX Infamstiea.

During this period LIQIVUY provided oparsticnal Gata of interust in
comection with the visit to Macieo of President Tito of Yugoslavia.

H
\
MEXI-O953 reported a contact by om English-speaking uan vith the Soviet { |
Bubassy in Maxico City. ‘Tais wae forvnriod to Headquarters for further dissenin- |
|

al dagen on Lee ten

MEXT-6591 reported a long distance call from Berd PROVOS? fron les
‘Vegas vho claimed to be a student working with the Cuban Skbasay in Mxxteo,
Durther Qisre=iontion was left to Headquarters,

MEXI~-GELS reported contact betwean How Yexk Tans writer, Herbert
WEHERS end the Coban Rubasay in Maxico. ee eee eee



ase meta eeinnemari memene me wat eee pirectaareesieuicinie= seats

CONTINUATION OF : TeSTCCT OR SORT Ie .
DISPATCH CzCRER (TORE : ONA-2A92

Se Histsen

‘@here wore no alguificant Liatson coutncts curing tale period. CUNIS
exintatnst regular contest with LIZLANS esd LIVOL-2.

6. Semaite
‘There ware no problass doing this aonth.
T. Santnion.

Tt was nesewonry to cable Neetquarters for fow replaceasnt resorisre
for the use of oxtside translators viich the Station kesps compartacnted from
Arcolé FP, AIGEMEE for eccurtty reasoos. There vero no other pavbleas.

8. Perewmel
‘Thave vas no chege during this perict.
% Eustis

There te attached a list of report, cadles enfi dispatches foruaivicd
to Mestquarters during this uonth.

Willard ¢, G5eIs

Attacbsants
4s stated ebom.

3 = c/a wfute

sRatiagien’ 0.

