# 104-10109-10429

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10109-10429

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

PROCESSING

SECRET

OSEC

ACTION

MO INDEXING DECKED

SHLY QUALIFTED

HEADGUATTENS DESH.

CAN ANDCE MADDINA

AESTRAGT

2000K

PLISHED

NEC

FACA

cries of Station, JAWAVE

SUMECT XPIC/Operational

AYCUTTER-li Query on C1t1zenshir

ACTIONI REQUIRED: REFERENCES

AR : Please investigate status, take appropriato remedial steps

and advise.

538: WAVE 9311, 14 July 1964

1.

"rior to his currant trip for training, AlCLATTER 1

requestad permission to nate a stopover in ZRuETAL on his IeturI

to JAVE to inquire about the status of his citizenship. We

ofjured instoad to have the natter looked into during his train-

ise course and then, if there was anything his presence in

ZRHETAL could acconplish, to have arrangements made for appropriato

To this and he subnitted a nemorandun outllning his

recollection of the history of his case. It 1s paraphrased 11

sterile form belon.

In 1949-50, for approximatoly 16 nonths, 1 worked

1" Identity A. Before taking the appointent I consulted *jth

Identity B, who warned me that I was endangering my citizenshi?,

but also promised to help in case of trouble because I had offered

It so happened that I quickly

worked my

way up to the rank o1 Sergeant and was detailed to 11a1son

WITH ODYOKE agencies.

This lacilitated. sy volunteering Information

not noraaliy given in liaison contacte, and even my fulfilling of

requirements lovied by then,

particularly ODEARL and ODACID.

bo

I belleve that it must have been Identity C who

made the charge that deprived se of my citizenship on the techni

callty that to have achloved m rank and position I must be

crnsidered & PBRULEN citizens. Identity C and I had crossed

sards over a friend of nine who had been refused a PRPRIME visa.

Latis Idertity C was fired for having boen involved in a visa

salling racket.

Attachagnts: S/C

Idontity List

Portunal

aocuments

Dipiributina:

DC/WH SA 4/atES-#$-3

COS REPERENCE

SECR

CLASMTICATION

(continued)

DATE TYPED

21 July 64

DISPATOH STABL AND MUMBEA

UFGA-18973

19-136-3-21/3

DATE DESPATOHRO

---

## Page 2

DRTINVATION OT

DISPAICH

SCRET

27G4-16973

was very sympathetic and arranger

have

spous :

In 1952 IdontitarD

to ya.

IRVETAL JaR 1

em whose Lande

00 t

but Rebs

Satod lout

stive action ton

to :10t2y

con boher:

* 11

Ideny

nake

Potions, preven

10710w1n8

I5d nothiever

cantos cho bill anitar as T kng

In 1959 Idontity D called no and toldin

tic

acute in vion of the Consunte

1 segined Increed to cooporate without he

and was sets ducod to Identity F,

KUDARK: Chics of Station

aesigned me to Identity asi

Together wo orgarized a Broup

PERINEN

covernmont,I vas uracuated to the

In thu

a 150 to 100 a dad dent by

and was not by ca

MASE

2eaship status sould be liquired

SaRAce to KUEARS sould ri soldan

doubts

hat v5 not

tha vet to red in thu cang.

nor o1/1961

decided in shoes derperatios

to zaridentit

nor direct bolpa

INWARE

contaute

enlaloed, clairod trat

record ot

tor cit

noteston

cast

/and s150

ectivatod.

1 entity 2

duced me

Taunt ity

thn t

Sac to loavest

Tarant

kration adt-cor

At that timot

as dismay) that ny

on tbe

da to

of

cove tip

pr 13/2983,

A mit Identity

41 6611600

110 t

Uttzeushap had not boere reinstated by

"A Trie

No said that he and Identity hackbeen given torund

Lant it

71)

pet tod

Catar

ADIC

catidership 21111

uaed in

Idertity. F

ateopto to

1071"1

T!::

1a1n

record croar that

hippin any othor country; thats

abrve circunstancos to muintain *ySPBPRIME

tried

Sy

wury moans available to havorry

sper I loarred that it had boon takensor

thu y; and thist the PERUkEN passport

intried id

21var assuranceerou

#L115!

said met

hare an adverso citecteuror

citizonship.

unbe

copter

natfatadtiy

ASE.

8-143

cane

sould rollove

119: d

Br

---

## Page 3

G.

Togotber

PARUMIN

sover ment

we organ

red

ted

111861€

the

tres

T: 141 707

The coatta

ot

Israeed:

HEL

0211CAA

Aris-That

10AT

HEYU

Shi

fen

need in

BICU

•ETOuP

to

to the.

JAMATE

dentits

uT ?

ny

27.

• Ji: 4.

1199

mutat for

ci tixenah

tako

ay tuxt Bupon 1501

thiste

riat

Lit.

10t

cit

is."

1 :.

1to

wild

30oк

thendate

April

1241

Identity

Bx11OVE

Itat

cittzenship had hot been

X.

sut tist

N9-Abd

identity i had been piven to

n13

takon care

FAth

to

wake ibe record clear thett

22

cite zonenda 1a

33 1

under

the Erra

ruther collathily

PEP

200 tre

that 1

1I100

by pvery scarse

Maslon

to bay

cinnated

21*01

I learn

had peon

tha

Ident

N1i3

Funda

74

FeLt

INCLATTER-iTS jossession

ArG

alsostorkardod under

Andre

REUTENAN

MON.

---

## Page 4

DISPATCH

ZO NOLIYANNOS

SACRET

"1' DNY TOBNRS MET

SAMACIUENT

UECARASA

Nen nIs

DE ZAan

WPe Ltcra

CaFamtO tthOSPris AoRT.

Mrd

Fod Spoare, Legaliattecho afatre Bat

inuk

Nelator, yico concl atsuaoter

avita

1uua 20 64

thit. Stintor

osto aist

Xard Rel.

ara zunTs

---

