# 104-10220-10117

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10220-10117

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

0HLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONF TENTIAL

SECRET

FROM:

10: ¡ne sapstar, as tutor, ont

HI CLINTD

DATE.

" NORWAROPO

OPTICAR'S

INITIALS

NO

DATE

3 1rch.1960

'OMMENTS (Number pach comman to show mam' aha

to artom.

Drum a lino ocrore columa atter port coronant

2.

3.

Mr. deriolds

KI• 200I95

N. SPurpe

2.

copy attached for you

setoncion should jou destro.

3. Cors attachod

for jour

initial retention and then

plouse forward for Subjoct

Thack you.

Lipatel scort to

alapna in secter.

7.

8.

ders

17.7: Le QDDALE

10.

12.

13.

102. 610 " M E SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERTAL

USE OMLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

4-00000

SECRET

8 March 1950

MENOPANIXM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECI: Meeting with 12'. William Puvlej and Fabio PRETS On Praicial

and Organizational Matter's

TIME & PINCE: 1455 Houro, 2 Narch 1960; MT. Piley'o Offlee in Mina!

1.

Jacob Ecterlire, using the name Jacob Incland, bet sor lou boure with

Ex. Pawley and kir. FREYkE on the date Indicetri.

The followits amjects were

covered during this mecting:

п.

Kegarding

the bond tsauc which it. fawley 16 floatis in

vlow

of radoing 22,000,000 for support ui vitosition actirities,

Ecterline 4011 ulm that the lirat tuo cardilates to slar die issue

vere quite accoptubic.

These poople are Enillo OCHal Delus and

Dro Gustavo CURRiO.

Esterline said the other two Mr. Farles bad

suggested vere turned! down In iashincton--not fo any persora?

reasons, but merely because tlicy hed been too clonely assoriated.

with bitIshi elements in the must, ifter eone resiatance, particularly

with regard to MARGUEz Sterlino, No. Paulog'e tira candidats, Le

screcd to consider others.

Two of the most prominent candidates

mentioned were intonio VAROMI, Autenties lester, and Jorge zaris,

formor editor of the Habana dally nexopezer, La Avgace:

nilough

Mr. T'unley and his colleague, la'. FrEyRe,

add no reservatiors vith

regard to zaYis; they were of nixed eratiors on VARNI-janicularly.

becauce of a recent report they had receive: from RUBIO FadiLia In

Habana Indicating that VAROl 1n nuther to the left than tid forberly

been considered.

This point was debated at length and 1t was finally

decided that the resolution nould turn on wether or not Me. YARON!

would be willing to come to the States and fortully join the errosition.

(HOTE TO MR. CONTAD:

(1) Where 1s ZiYiS at the present thee aid vien can

he be brought back to the United States to sign the bonds? (2)

Fore be ever

hau any leftict traces on VAROli before?

Also, 18 the Station in touch with

him and could they

deterrine through a channel

other than RUBIO Psiills whether

visor 1111, in fact, come to the United States for a purpose such as-this?)

Mr. Pawley 18 pressing for action in settine the bonds sigred and his

point is well taken.

it mist be noted, however, that it wiid de foollsh

to accept nanes which are less than acceptable because, in she long run,

it would defeat our juriose.

On the question of miblication ol a Cuban neasnares so Mani,

Esterl'ne said lie understood that ls. Pauley tod rade arrangesents for

che prolication of Diario de Marine in Mida!.

"r. Panley said that to

sad, and with enthuaten sata trate had aiso beer able de late spanis!

converoich kite for the linime nahines wilch does avaj alin the secessity

of burine the muchares. Esterline tien queried his on what Mia itaction

SECKET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

=7-

tó prtntire drange strice it worla be infanel fur ull pructical garposes

In Cuba.

Nio jewley again aid vith eatinian tas ho yould be prepare:

to print Avarre on soon as Layis islumed es the country.

It was mutusliy

arceù viat trir chould be one of lie priority propaganda targuis for the

inmediate interc.

During e recent converantlen with Chint, MID In Washington, Mr.

Pawley rude tir senork that through hin irlonde in Mlamt ho had contact

with action cicapo in Pinar del Rio und Canuary, Irior to Esterline's

úeparture for lies, C, WID ached him to loris into theor groupo in more

detall with No. Farley.

ie rubject von accordinily ruined und tr. Powlsy

and dro rideria, uno had most of the cubaterive Indormation, provided the

following:

(1) C5 Finar del Rio, Mr, Flute sold there was a froup

1n that eres, but he did not lure the nore of it at luis finger-

tipo at tir noment.

He offerid to set it within the nost fo

daya and make 1t available through Mr. Furley,

10

(2) 0n Caraguey, Mr. FlOTINE cald that a loctora

actively vorking with retired elemente of the old army living

in that arca.

This croup--and 1t would appeer that she may have

contact with 300 at the moment (the total group 1s approximtaly

4500)--1a sapposedly organizing us a resistence army in Cunagucy.

Dra.

ras complete recponcibility for this organization.

Sho

10 aidad to a Dr

i Prand cald that shouii any-

boly attenyst to contact

and she vas not present; contact '

could be nare vich Di

who would jut them In touch

with hcr.

Vo. FREYRe appeared to have no suther ictailu of the

sroup other than those set for cuove. He did say, however,

that tlier e sas an existing contact plan which anybody could vic

w1th compiste security either on the telephone or in a personal

meeting.

Thés plen would vork ao follis:

The person contactine Dra.

shoald say thoy

ase coming from deta 39 to talk to Aden 37 (theso are old

serority and traternity designations).

Having established

ti1s, "hey should then suj to the Doctora that they are

cor. 1ri to consult ubout serurica reform.

This will cetsblish

the bons tIdes of the person marine contact as a frierd of

NI. PRETPE.

(Note in Mr. Renolis and Ir. Thoncy: Please lave sruebuly prepare a illenatch

on the accorsibilly of the FRuiRs group on! muest to the station slat lickigerters

19 In'ercetail 1n intertiairy sore precisely the rucerical atreutr and corpocation oi

ITC.

The digratch chatlu also euprest that Station insana sclect e

non-official icroon to este ills contact.

Although I would recormont tont at

inerican be used for this, 1 silly don't inor ernugi ubout the situallu: In Caregaey

to know wether tie Loctora would to very leupy anoi recting an merleano

however, care no indication that un inerican maing a contact woul! le caleciteneüle.)

Eaterlin?

---

