# 104-10215-10181

## Page 1

4-00000.

104-10215-10181

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

:RANSARITTAL

ELASSIFICATION

OF

IDES INFORMATION REPORT

ORIS.

UNIT

James Je Molletteies

112

ROUTING

SECRET

EXT.

SAS/Intel Reports

22

5547

0 1 263

DATE

CONFIRMATION CORES

MeRteier 1963

SAS 11

INFORMATION COPIES

TDCS -3/558,848

CI/OPS 2, CI/IG, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6, IW, CA 2, CA/PEG, DODS,

WE 4,

WH. 6,

DATE DISTRIBUTED

SR

4

11 September 1963

PRECEDENCE

DISSEMINATION

XI ROUTINE

SAS/R

-3, SAS/SI| 1!

EASED ON (FLD. RPT., PROS.)

SAS/InK 2 SAS/HAYE

SAS/ EOS 1 SAS/SO/HEL

HA/PACY 1

CILSPG

1

ISR/RP

N

WE/S/R

WE/MADR 2

LGRE-0708

(IN-17547)

NP (AMLASH)

SAS/CI

Liaison

SAS/NOB

EVALUATION

REQUESTED

STATE

OF

ARRAY

NAW

AIR

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

RO FOREIGN DISSEN

RECOMMEND FOR EXO

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

WAKEM FALLED ON)

COORDINATING OFFICERS)

RELEASI

COPY

• SAS/Intel

Back king

115-89-88-257

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This

•193 and

marria so trinsmitionation.

allecting

784.

transmission or revelation

otte

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

40 FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY CUBA/USSR

SUBJECT

1. INFORMATION ON SOVIET MILITARY

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/558,848

DATE DISTR. 11 SEPTEMBER 1963

PERSONNEL IN CUBA

2.

TRAINING OF CUBAN MILITARY PER-

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

SONNEL

DATE OF

INFO.

EARLY SEPTEMBER 1963

REFERENCES

D-AC6-03298

IN-17547

PLACE &

DATE ACO. (11 SEPTEMBER 1963)

APPRAISAL

FIELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

A HIGH-RANKING CUBAN MILITARY OFFICER WRO HAS BEEN ON ACTIVE DUTY

FOR. THE PAST TEN MONTHS AND WHO HAS GOOD CONNECTIONS AMONG PROMI-

NEXT CUBAN OFFICIALS. TO DATE, SOURCE'S RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN

ESTABLISSED.

1. AS OF EARLY SEPTEMBER 1963 THE SOVIET PERSONNEL IN CUBA

COULD BE DIVIDED INTO TWO GENERAL CATEGORIES:

(A) SOVIET MILITARY UNITS WHICH MAN SURFACE-TO-AIR (SAM)

SITES, CRUISE MISSILE SITES, AND RADAR AND COMMUNICATIONS SITES.

TRESE UNITS ARE COMPOSED ENTIRELY OF SOVIET PERSONNEL, INCLUDING

MECHANICS AND SECURITY GUARDS. THEY DO NOT FRATEENIZE WITH

CUBANS AND LIVE IN TEEIR OWN CAMPS AND AREAS.

•(B) HIGHER-CALIBER TECHNICIANS AND OFFICERS WHO TRAIN

CUBANS AND ACT AS ADFISERS DONN TO AND INCLUDING DIVISION LEVEL

IN THE REBEL ARMY. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: SOURCE HAS NO

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

CROUS

artacos

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DIA

ARMY/ACSI, MAVY

STATE/DIR

REPCINCLANT

NPIC

SCS SECORE MSA MIC JOIX JUSTA

OCI ONE OCR

TREASURY

DDI

00

FBI

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

ORM

1Kb

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(25-90)

---

## Page 3

14-00000 -

FORM 8-1.0

18J

CLASSIFICATIONI - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN-17547

TDCS -3/558,848

PAGE 2

CONFIRMED INFORMATION CONCERNING THE NUMBER OF SOVIETS IN CUBA.

SOME ARE LEAVING BUT SOME ARE ALSO ARRIVING. SOURCE IS NOT AWARE

OF ANY SOVIET INFANTRY OR ARMORED COMBAT UNITS PRESENTLY IN CUBA.

HE STATED THAT ANY UNITS WHICH MAY HAVE FITTED THIS CATEGORY LEFT

WITH THE IRU'S IN NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER 1962. HE IS CERTAIN THAT

ALL IRBM'S AND BOMBERS HAVE BEEN TAKEN OUT.)

2. CASTRO CONTINUES TO BE UNHAPPY WITH THE SOVIETS AND WILL

NEVER FORGET THE TREATMENT HE RECEIVED FROM THEM IN THE FALL OF 1962.

CASTRO IS MUCH CLOSER TO THE CHINESE LINE BUT REALIZES HE CANNOT

EXIST WITHOUT SOVIET AID. HE INSISTS THAT THE CUBANS BE TRAINED

AND ASSUME CONTROL OF ALL SOVIET EQUIPMENT IN CUBA. BECAUSE CASTRO

BECOMES ENRAGED OVER BEING CALLED ANYONE'S STOOGE AND FEELS SO

STRONGLY AND PROUD OF THE INDEPENDENT POSITION HE HAS TAKEN, SUCH

AS NOT AUTHORIZING GROUND INSPECTION AND NOT SIGNING THE PARTIAL

TEST BAN TREATY, IT IS BELIEVED THAT HE WILL INSIST THAT THE SOVIETS

LEAVE WHEN THE CUBANS ARE TRAINED AND CAN HANDLE THE EQUIPMENT.

3. MIC-19 PILOTS HAVE REEN TRATNER IN BOTH THE SOVIET UNION

(Mueuro

AND CHINA, SOME, SUCH AS PRENDES AND ' VERONITA" (SIC), RECSIVED

MIG-21 TRAINING EARLY IN CUBA AND MORE PILOTS ARE PRESENTLS TRAINING

IN CUBA. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: PRENDES IS PROBABLY CAPTAIN ALVARO

PRENDES QUINTANA; VERONITA IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH CAPTAIN ENRIQUE

VARONA.) THE MIG-21'S ARE CONTROLLED BY THE CUBANS, BUT THE SOVIETS

REMAIN AS ADVISERS.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

MFG. 2-63

(15-20-46-27)

USE PREVIONS

EDITIONS

CONTINUATION OF TOCS INFORMATION REPORT

....

---

## Page 4

14-00000

FORM 14-1

1-83

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMSNATION CONTROLE

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN -17547

TDCS- 3/558,848

PAGE 3

4. THE KOMAR VESSELS ARE CONTROLLED AND MANNED BY THE CUBANS

WITH SOVIET ADVISERS.

5. THE CUBANS ARE BEING TRAINED TO HANDLE THE CRUISE MISSILES.

(HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: SOURCE IS NOT CERTAIN BUT BELIEVES THAT THE

CRUISE MISSILES ARE ALREADY UNDER CUBAN CONTROL.)

6. THE CUBANS ARE NOK RECEIVING CLASSROOM INSTRUCTION IN THE

OPERATION OF SAM'S IN PINAR DEL RIO. THE SAM'S ARE STILL UNDER

SOVIET CONTROL.

7. THE CUBANS ARE ALSO RECEIVING COMMUNICATIONS AND RADAR

TRAINING. CASTRO HAS TAKEN ENGINEERING STUDENTS OUT OF THE UNIVER-

SITY OF HABANA FOR TRAINING, WHICH IS INDICATIVE OF THE TIL-ORTANCE

HE ATTACHES TO THE TRAINING OF CUBANS AND THEIR ASSUMING CONTROL.

8. THE CUBAN ARMY IS ORGANIZING AN ARMORED DIVISION WHICH

WILL BE UNDER THE COSMAND OF MAJOR ASEVEDO. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:

POSSIBLY IDENTICAL FITH ROGELIO ACEVEDO GONZALEZ WHO WAS PROMOTED

TO MAJOR IN EARLY JANUARY 1763.) NEW TANKS WITH INFRARED FIRING

DEVICES HAVE ARRIVED IN CUBA WITHIN THE PAST THREE TO FOUR MONTHS.

IT IS ASSUMED THAT THESE TANKS ARE FOR THIS DIVISION.

9. NO SOVIET TROOPS HAVE PARTICIPATED OR ARE PARTICIPATING IN

THE CUBAN ARMY ANTI-INSURGENT OPERATIONS IN THE MOUNTAINS. REGULAR

ARMY DIVISIONS ARE PERMANENTLY STATIONED AT CAPS THROUGHOUT THE

..-

ISLAND, AND MILITIA DIVISIONS ARE ORGANIZED OR ACTIVATED AS THE NEED

ARISES.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-F_T

180 FOREIGN DISSEM

USE PREVIOUS

Ma. 2-83

(15-20-46-471

CONTINUATION OF TDOS INFORMATION REPORT

---

## Page 5

4-00000

CLASSEICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

10. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO.

TDCS -3/558,848

1N-17547

PAGE 4

END OF MESSAGE

USE PREVIONS

EDITIONS

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

: CONTINUATION OF TDES INFORMATION REPORT

ИНа. 2-63

(15-20-14-1771

---

