# 104-10171-10032

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10171-10032

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

-¡Chias of Starlos, JelAVy

CLASSISTiATHT

Б-В-С-А-Д-T

x

PROCESSING

518:17.8

н 1858:8, 19941685

CAR A-70 1MO1UINO

ASTRAT

ACCOM

Chio!, Tast farce W

OperatIonal, GYROSS/LUHOLY

ACTAN RIATELD

7915TM7S

ACTION: At jour discretion

uP01-421) 8 June 1968

l. A. D. Ring de lesoclatos, consulling radio engíneers in lashlagton, D.C.,

bare racontiy completed a study on tha effectivercos of a special audlo servico to

¿bo favase arco.

The atudy la attached herevita. Its conclusione are thats

Operatios with tho low-pover traranitters and 35-500t antansas nora

renalt 1n a l1altod aullo service along the snore lino and to the r101ng ground

inted 1s toly. Inland.

The signal vould do rary toat and subjoct to Istorterence

sron talerialçn stationa on tha adlacent chansal and could be jamard vita alniuna

effort.

B. A moderato incrosse in antenna height and a suall lacresso in pover

voald Increase the servico only a amall anouit and vould not produca any

alga1t1cast improvesent or randor jamiaz particularly dirticult.

c.

Transniosion tron a belght of sono 5000 feat, using only soderato

fovor (100 natio to l kilovait), vould result in a Blenlficant laprovesont in

service in all areas and proiuce a signal roguiring conalderable effort to Jan.

2 As theso conrlusiona sureest, tranamlastons Iron an airplaso sould bo tha

nost effectivo, uhila transulastono Iron, the surface vith natannes of up to 35

soot taro lilaltod ettoctiveraso. Hovertheleso, Reference and other debrieflago

of persona coalag out of cuba have given evidence of the apparea: effectiveneso

of the ASPELL TV Intrusionu in too Ravana area and Indicato tsat they aro vorth

COIT IUSD

19:20-19

•12

CHIA DNA DICHRI

25

JUL 1962

84S0!

ERESARS 409 28.8881;

8100::8:.&, 918

1...

+80777

19-120-19

1190901106

Scotta

RETURN TO CLA

Tripita

03

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

8-E-C-R-B-T

VInGH 1202

20. J

No russeat that 15 you have not alroady included the asials latrusiona.

1n your planning for 86 tely, you my viah to conilder harlos ANSFilL propere

"and air a apocial promsa for that date. If techalially sensiblo, 1t voila be

Tary affoctive to littide diring the day at the haight of CASTiO's festlvitles,

altber on an unused channal or preferably on a channel balag doed at the time

to broadcast tse celabrations in Bavase.

Pleasa explore this mojoct vIth ANSPELI and, 11 fonsible, bars than

apopsos a pragnes saltablo to the accasion and the assus.

BND OF DISPATCH

3 - 008, ПоАТХ

Attachmont (2)

sanlla enrolopo

---

