# 104-10076-10240

## Page 1

Balann

104-10076-10240

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

KA SATE T

iNFO:

DIRECTOR

MVAYE

WHIS

DOPS 4, CA 2, CA/PCS, CA/PROP,

dA/0 4,

61%BP3,

/ 7, 8. 1/2 3 40 8 6, 468, 30/1,

ra/ie 2,

TOCS

18 DEC 8926Z 63

SECRET 104026Z

13-3

DIR INFO SDOM BARR LOND TOKY) CITE WAVE 8751

INTEL DYVOUR, JMPALM

SUPDATA: ZRWAMDO.:

AMPAL-I FROM SEGUNDO FERNANDEZ, JR., AN OFFICIAL

OF FERGIS TRAVEL AGENCY, MIAMI, WHO RETURNED TO MIAMI ! DEC 63

FOLLOWING VISIT DOM REP AND MEETINSS WITH DONALD J. REID CABRAL.

RIDES INDEX. FILED 1800262

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLID DISSEM

COUNTRY: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

SUBJ: OPINIONS OF DOMALD J. REIO CABRAL, DOMINICAS MINISTER OF

FOREIGN RELATIONS, CONCERNING THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

DOI: 1 DEC 63

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (9 DEC 63)

IN COMMENT

NO ORSE

AXIACHES

NO PORTION

VALS HAS ENT

I: NOENCY PONDE

ERASE BY INE ACTION VAITE

IN 76972

FREATY

PELENING NO

DATE DIN

BASED ON

LIAISCA

SECRETE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

CANTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NATONY

man in in a bit

COUNTRY

SUSPECT

RIPON MONTDES

DATO DISTR

PRECEDENCI

EFERENCES

DAYE OF

INFO

PLACE M

DATE AÇO.

AIPFAISAL

76972

THUS IS UNEVALUATED MM

RELD REPGUI NO.

& DEFRATIVE:

AFFÉNISAL CA CONTENT

1.

DONALD J. REID CABRAL, DOMINICAN MINISTER OF FOREIGN

PELATIONS, SAID ON I DECEMBER 1963 THAT NEGOTIATIONS ARE CONTINUINS

FOR AN EXCHANGE OF CUBAN PRISONERS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FOR

COMINICAN FAMILES NOM RESIDINO IN CUBAN AND THAT NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE

EXCHANGE ARE SEINO MADE THROUGH REPRESONTATIVES OF THE SRITISH

GOVERNVENT.

READ SAID THAT NEGOTIATIONS ARE ALSO UNDER WAY BETWEEN THE

TRIVIRATE GOVERNMENT AND CUBAN EXILES MOU RESIDING IN MIAMI FOR AN

AGREEMENT WHICH WOULD PROVIDE THE EXILES WITH DOMINICAN TRAINING

BASES TO BE USED SY THE EXILES IN THEIR OPERATIONS LGA INSY CASTRO

QLASSNICATON - DNSSIMIMATION CONTROLE

CONFIDENTIAL ASE ORA

LEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAV

---

## Page 3

14-00000

76792

IDES

RAÖ8

REIC EXPLAINED THAT THESE NEGOTIATIUNS ARE BEING HELD LAGER THE

INEST SECURITY PRECAUTIONS IN ORDER TO PREVEIT OR FURTHER DELAY

RECANITION OF THE TRIPIRATE COVERINENT SY THE UNiTED STATES.

3U REID SAID HE CONSIDERED THAT THE SITUATION IN THE DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC WAS NOW PEACEFUL BUT THAT UNITED STATES RECOGNITION AND FINAN-

CIAL AND TECHNICAL AID WERE DESPERATELY NEEDED: REID SAID THAT HE

EXPECTED RECOGNITION FROM THE UNITED STATES BY 15 DECEMBER 1963.

4. CONCERNING NEGOTIATIONS SCINGEN THE DUMINICAN REPUBLIC

AND SEVERAL CUBAN EXILE GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS NOW RESIDING IN

MIAMI, REID SAID THAT THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC IS CONSIDERED MANY

OF THESE EXILES COMPETENT MEN, PARTICULARLY IN THE FIELD OF PUBLIC

ADMINISTRATION, AND WAS HOPING TO ATTRACT THEM TO THE DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC TO ASSIST THE TRIUMVIRATE GOVERNMENT IN ATMINISTERING THE

COUNTRYS

REID SAID HE WOULD LIKE TO SEE SEVERAL CUSAN EXILE

LEADERS NOW IN MIAMI PARTICIPATE IN THE TRIUMVIRATE GOVERNMENT.

5-

REID SAID THAT HE WOULD BE LEAVING THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

"IN SEVERAL DAYS" ON A TRIP TO ISRAEL AND JAPAN IN ORDER TO SIGN

COMMERCIAL TREATIES BETWEEN THE COMINICAN REPUBLIC THESE COUNTRIES.

REID DID NOT EXHAIN THE DETAILS OF THE TREATIES WHICH

HE PLANS-TO SIGN.

6.

REID SAID THAT HE WOULD REMAIN THE MINISTER OF FORE!ON

RELATIONS FOR ANOTHER YEAR IN ORDER THAT HE WOULD DE ABLE TO RUN

TION CONTROLS

BARIDENT

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CLASSIFICATION

JNFIDENTIAL

FOR PRESIDENT IN 1965.

73

-FIELD DISSEMI NONE.

TION COMTAOLO

TOCS

ONFIDENTIAL

---

