# 104-10111-10066

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10111-10066

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

..

SECRET

Daniel L. CARSWELL

I. The Pollowing U.S. documentation was prepared by ISD/IB in alias as indicated:

New York Driver's License

Pennsylvania Blrth Certificate

Social Security Card

Reserve Officers Association Membership Card

American Association of Engineers Membership Card

United States Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Card

International Certificate of Vaccination

8. Tbe residence, 14 Eton Place, Eastchester, New York, 18 a multiple

dvelling unit and was provided by Central Cover. This addreas i8 shown in the New

York Driver's Ilcense, Reserve Officers Association Membership Card, U.S. &

G. Insurance Card, and International Certificate of Vaccination.

b. The Reserve Officers Association Membership Card shows that CARSWELL

18 & Captain in the USAFR.

CARSWELL stated to ISD/IB that bis documents

should show that he 18 single.

c. The American Association of Engineers Membership Card 18 an existing

Organization. The address of the Association is listed as 8 South Michigan

Avenue, Chicago, M11nO1B.

d. The Intemational Certificate of Vaccination was prepared by the

Agency Immunization Branch and shows that CARSWELI was vaccinated by Rolla

R. Wolcott, Medical Officer USPHS Outpatient Clinic, 67 Hudson St. New York

13, New York.

e. The place of employment which CARSWELL, obtained from Central Cover

was not shown on any of the above documents. However, he was told by Central

Cover that he has worked for VACHUTA ASSOCIATES since May 1960 as a

production manager.

2. TSD/IB provided CARSWELL wlth infornation-instruction briefs which

explained how he normally would have obtained his documentation.

3. When purchasing his ticket to Cuba, CARSHELL would have been required to f1ll

out two copies of a Cuban Identity/Disembarkation Card (Tarjeta de Identidad). One

copy of the Tarjeta 18 picked up by Cuban Inmigration Authorities upon landing In Cuba,

and the other copy is retained by him until be leaves Cuba at which time he has to

surrender 1t to Inmigration officers.

the individual:

ilame

Nationality

Country of Birth

Age

Sex

Marital Status

Occupation

Point of Embarkation

Carrier

Flight Number

Date of Arrival

Permenent Address

Aadress during stay in Cuba

Tourist, Transient, Resident

or Immigrant.

SECRET

sant

---

