|104-10216-10342| (2022 RELEASE onbes THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
2 R 7 i: : Z

Saad
a {

Lasir-

19 Mareh 1965

MEMORANDUY FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with AMWHIP-1 in New York City,
17 March 1965

Meeting Tine/Place/Purpose:

1, The undersigned act AMWHIP-1 at the del Pezzo
Restaurant, 33 West 47th S5t., at 1300 hours on 17 March
for the purpose of briefing him on better telephone
security while in Europe. Other operational matters a5
discussed below were broached.

Details of the Meeting:

2. In response to a request from Paris, ANWAHIP-1
was given a security briefing for his trips to Europe.
We paid particular attention to the need for security
consciousness while telephoning his KUBARK contacts at
the various embassies in Europe. to stressed France in
particular as it had been this station which reported a
certain laxity in AMWHIP-1'a security practices in
Paris, AMWHIP-1 appreciated the advice and guidance
and said he would adhere to it in the future. He in
turn stated he felt that "Roberto" should begin necting
him in more secure places than his hotel room, where
apparently the majority of the AMWHIP-1/Roberto meetings
take place. We stated we vould take this up with Roberto
in Paris prior to AKWHIP-1's projected trip during the
week of 21 March. 1

3. It was also suggested to AMWHIP-1 that due to
the sensitivity of the UNSNAFU-19 CA operation he vas
about to undertake,be forego meeting any KUBARK staffers
in Europe during his forthcoming trip. He told he
ghould contact only Roberto in Paris since 8 had been
specifically requested by Roberto and his meetings with
Roberto should be kept to a minimum, Any inforration be

ee ere I

gen
2



theories

i
|
i
i
i
{
|
|
|
j
;

-2-

obtained from his trip which could not be held until his
return to New York could be given to Roberto in Paris for
tranenission to the undersigned et Headquarters.

Rafee! Garcia Bango Dirube

4. AMWHIP-1 was asked if he knew Garcia Bango (GB)
whom we described as o lawyer, 33 years old, who bad just
arrived in Madrid and claimed that he bad a message
obviously coming from AMLASH-1 or members of his group.
AMWHIP-1 replied that he knew GB who had been a friend
of AMLASH-1's for tbe past twenty years. ANTHIP-1 stated
that GB was essentially a crook, and his assessment of
GB correeponded pretty well with that forwarded in MADR 34868
CIN 24295), AMWHIP-1 stated it was possible, but not
probable, that GB had been sent by the AMLASH group to
Convey the sessage as indicated in the forementioned MADR
cable. AWHIP-1 further stated he felt GB would be
personally loyal to AMLASH-1 in spite of any DSZ suggestion
to the contrary. (This again is a feeling which AMWHIP-1
had and is not to be taken as goxcpal.) He also mentioned
the brother of GB, Jorge, on whom there are a nuaber of
traces at Headquarters.

8. AMVHIP-1 also discussed the contents of a letter
received from AMLASH-2. The essential part of this letter
plus s telephone call from ANLASH-3 froa Madrid was that
AMLASH-3 was somewhat upset by the fact that he was having
difficulty in getting a visa for the U. 8, and/or the
Dominican Republic. AMWHIP-1 then spent considerable
time discussing the treatment of AMLASH-2 and AMLASH-3 in
Madrid by KUBARK, He said he felt that AMLASH-2 and
ANLASH-3 ehouid be contacted by KUBARK and treated and
handled well. If this vere done, they would both serve a
very useful purpose for XUBARK ends both in Europe and io
Cuba. The undersigned told AMWHIP-1 that we essentially
agreed. vith his position and would take up the satter with
our superiors when we returned to Washington. Oa the
matter of the visa for AHLASH-3, we pointed out that we
could not intercede for AMLASH-3 in either case because it
would be compromising to him. To illustrate the point we
explained that both governzents know that AMLASH-3 was a
Captain in the Rebel Army and had up until recently been
working active!y for a mintstry of the Cuban Government
aud therefore considered a Cuban official working in behalf
of the Castro Government. As such AMLASH-3, or anyone in
that position, would not be entitled to enter either country
under norsaal circumstances. fe pointed out that theCubao
Government. in all probability knew of this; and, if AMLASE-3



succeeded easily in ontering either country, this would
be a rather obvious indication to the Cuban DSE that
AMLASH-3 swst be cooperating with one or the other govern—
Bent, aiisniP-i accepted the explanation and felt it
would be readily understandable an‘ a good excuse to give
to AHLASE-3.

6, AMWHIP-1 also talked at length on the subject of
AMBIDDY-1 and AMLASH-1. He repeated his previous position
that tho marriage of AMBIDDY-1 and AMLASH-1 would brood
no good, that an unnecessary number of people now know of
AMLASH-1's plans, and that AMLASH-1 himself was very
skeptical of the arrangement with AMBIDDY-1. Furthermore,
98 a result of this, he is somewhat unsure of kis position
vis-a-vis OUYOKE,

7. AMWHIP-1 said he would advise us of his exact
departure date in the event wo had any further instructions
for hin, The meeting terminated at 1520 hours. There were
Ro incidences of a security nature to report.

Willian EB, Wainvright
WH/C/PI/TC ia

