CLASSIFICATION i PROCESSING ACTION

Senet RiBAT oo

NO INDEXING REQUIRED
JONLY QUALIFIED DESK

aon ae
Action: See paragraph 3

Reference: OCOA-14721, 30 September 1969

1. AS you will note in paragraph 7 of the Reference, we
asked SMABOVE to give us compiled information that they have on
various MHCHAOS targets. At the time they said that these con-
tained their own internal source information and could not be
passed, They promised, however, to furnish us the same material
in a form that could be passed, The attached two books entitled
"The Black Power Movement in Canada" and "Unrest in the Academic
Community (Canada)"' were recently passed to us eae response to
this request, 2

2. From a.cursory review of the material it appears that
some of it is already known to you, Some is overt information
while other items reflect results of SMABOVE investigations and
thorough checking. We are also attaching SMABOVE's letter of
transmittal which updates some of the information, You will note

\[that they invite our comments,

3. We feel that this is somewhat of a break through with
SMABOVE. We have not received this kind of complete report from
them recently, We intend very soon to offer some comments to
them and especially offer our appreciation, Your comments also
would be appreciated.

4, We do not know for sure if LNERGO was also given these
pooks, We assume they were not, If we determine that they were

passed to LNERGO we will let you know,
Chadect Te
des fe D.

Attachment: #4% ufsfe-
As Stated
Distribution:
- Chief, WOMUSE w/att
2 - Chief, EUR w/o att

#ort

‘CROSS REFERENCE TO [DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE

OCOA-14814 4 November 1969
CLASSIFICATION WAS File NUMBER

200-006-387/3





of the SDU at SFU, consists of left-wing activists? in this
category. Martin LONEY, who was one of the student leaders

during the SFU incident, entered Canada as a British citizen in
August 1966, Dr. Thomas Burton BOTTOMORE , a leading se
and author on Marxism as well as a British citizen, took up — -
employment at SFU in 1965 as head of the Department of Political
Science, Sociology and Anthropology (PSA). BOTTOMORE, as head of.
the PSA, was responsible for the hiring of Kathleen ABERLE, a
British citizen, and of Thomas Harold BROSE, John William Carl ~
LEGGKIT, Nathan POPKIN and Martin NICOLAUS, all U.S. citizens.

Although the largest concentration of foreign radicals
at SFU was in the psa other activists did take positions in :
other departments. ‘these included Sidney COONTZ, Michael Allan
LEBOWITZ, Paul Edward IVORY, and Maurice HALPERIN, all U.S. -
citizens, and Laughlin Bernard CURRIE, a citisen of Colombia. ~~~ ==:

: Mordecai BRIEMBERG, who took over as head of the PSA
Department after BOTTOMORE tendered his resignation in 1967, has
expressed a desire to remain as Department head in order to keep a
his hand in on the hiring. In this regard, Gerald SPERLING is, +
through BRIEMBERG, making efforts to get olm SYLVERS, an American
Marxist university professor who apparently worked for the Communist
underground in Italy during the early 1960's, into SFU.

ae Professor Donald E. EPSTEIN of the Political Science -
Department at the University of Waterloo, an American citizen a
described as a draft dodger and an SDS member prior to his arrival
in Canada~in 1967, as previously indicated, has been active in - ~
organizing and directing students in tactics and methods by which

, they could take physical possession of university buildings.

/ EPSTEIN, who has been active in student power activities at

; Waterloo, has apparently been refused tenure at that University

' and there are indications that activist students intend to challenge

4 the administration in this regard.

Professor Norman sTRAX,? an American who was employed
as an Assistant Professor of Physics at the University of New
Brunswick, precipitated the crisis at that University. STRA was _
instrumenta} in the formation and activities of the SDS branch at
that point...

Jsee APPENDIX 16 for further details on
specific foreigners living in Canada.

*See APPENDIX 16.

3The SDS at UNB is also known as the Canadian Struggle
for a Democratic Society (CSDS).

«. /227



14-00000

er oe -2-., ; APPENDIX 16

In early 1967, BROSE received a Canada Council grant for research
on Mexican politics and, in the fall of 1967, visited Cuba.

BROSE, one of the first exponents of academic freedom and tenure
of appointments at SFU, was a key spokesman during the CAUT censure
of the S¥U administration issue. He supported the radical group's

attempts to push faculty demands on academic and administration
matters to the extreme. : :

Leroy Roger BUTCHER ~ student, SGWU

BUTCHER, a West Indian and a menber of the SGWU

Caribbean Students Society, attended the Black University Conference
(BUC) at Howard University, Washington, on 13 to 17 November 1968
where he stated that only by working together would Black people
achieve their objective - total liberation, black nationality and
black identity. BUTCHER was elected Chairman of the International
‘Black Student Union organized at the BUC and plans were made for the
Union to operate in every university in the Western Hemisphere. It
was following BUTCHER's return to Montreal that the Black Students
Association was organized. BUTCHER was one of the key leaders
during the occupation of the Computer Centre at SGWU and was one

of those arrested during the riot. :

Sidney COONTZ - Associate Professor, SFU

é COONTZ, a U.S.A. citizen who was granted landed

: immigrant status in Canada in 1966, became an Associate Professor .
of Mathematics at SFU in January 1968. COONTZ has a history of
ior involvement which, although sporadic, dates back to thé
930's. :

aa Laughlin Bernard CURAIE - Professor, SFU

CURRIE, formerly an American citizen, was implicated as a
Communist fellow traveller in the mid-1940 espionage trials in the_
United States and subsequently went to Colombia where he took out
citizenship. Following this, in May 1967, he came to Canada and
has since obtained landed immigrant status.. CURRIE was responsible
for interviewing and recommending Maurice HALPERIN, described below,
for a position at SFU and purposefully played down HALPERIN's

Marxist leanings, claiming that HALPERIN had been a victim of cir-
cumstances.

o /3



275 _ APPENDIX 26

Kennedy Jerome FREDERICK - student, SGWU

FREDERICK, a West Indian, arrived in Canada in August
1967 to attend university at SGWU. FREDERICK is a member of the
militant Negro movement at the University and advocates violence.
He is considered by some parties to be extremely dangerous’ and
capable of drastic actions. He was active in organizing the

occupation or the Computer Center at SGwU and was one of those
arrested during the riot.

Maurice HALPERIN - Professor, SFU

. HALPERLN was born on 3. March 1906 at Boston, Massachusettq
and entered Canada in the spring. of 1968. In late 1953 he left the
United States for Mexico in order to avoid testifying before a_

_ United States Senate internal sub-committee. In 1958, when the
Mexican Government began deporting United States Communists, ‘
HALPunIN went to the Soviet Union, and became a visiting professor
at the U.S.5.n. Academy of Sciences. He went to Cuba in Uctober
ly62 as a professor of Economy at the University of Havana, where
he remained employed until coming to Canada. He is currently
employed with the Faculty of Education, Behavioural Science ‘*
Foundation, at Simon Fraser University. As noted above, Laughlin
‘Bernard CURKIE lobbied very hard to have HALPERIN accepted by
Simon Fraser University. CURRIE was aware of HALPERIN's bee spale
and "watered it down" to get him the appointment. é

e Of particular interest in this case is the fact that

fe CURRIE and HALPERIN were associated with the same espionage group
in the United States, His application for landed status was the
subject of an objection by the ACHP and, as yet, no final decision
has been made by the Minister of Immigration.

At Alfred Alan HEXZOG ~ graduate student, McGill University:

HERZOG, a U.S.A. citizen, travelled to several Canadian
university campuses with Robert cruisE, a leader of the Inter-
nationalists (pro-Chinese Communist) , in their promotion of the
Canadian Student Movement. He is a member of the Intellectual
and Patriotic workers of Quebec (les Intellectuels et Ouvriers
Patriotes du Quebec - IOPQ), was involved in the occupation of SGiW
in February 1964 and is a close associate of the leader of the
Internationalists H.S. BAINS (see APPENDIX 14).



D
DANIELS, Danny, A5/1
DANSEREAU , Suzanne, 49, 93
DARRELL, Bryan, 95
DAVIS, Chester, 85, 89, 91,
-” 93, 127 46/3
DAVIS, Horace trandier, Ts
4/6, 416/3
DAYE, potay? 88-89
De FREITAS, Michael
(Michael X), 88
DELINE, Graham; 55-56
DENT, Kenneth Victor, 65
De POE, David, 58
DEWART, Leslie Sutherland,
AL/6

DOFNY, Jacques Pee giltved
; (Brot), 47, 9 109,
"127, Al2/1-2 yetyi4

DOUGLAS, Rosie, 8 84-86,

88-89, 91, 93-yb, 127
Aisi? , ’

DRACHE, Daniel Eron, 31, 34
DUBE, Pierre, 50

DUBUC, Alfred (Prof.), oe
DUTSCHKE, Rudi, 9, 27, bu

zg

EAST, Kenneth, 119
EBRAHIM, Ahmid Gora, 8&1
EDMONDS, Duncan, 55
EDWARDS, Bob, 44/10
ELPHINSTONE, Bruce, 136
ENDICOTT, Dr. James G.,

Auf, Al /9-10,

16/3
ENDICOTT, ee Ab/5-7,
Al,/9-10
ENGLER, Allan, 73
EPSTIEN, Donald E. [Prof
” 118, 126, A16/
ERNST, (see ADAMS, Eric
ESCARTIN, Ricardo, 42
EVANS, Donald Dwight, A4/6,
AL/9

E

FANON, Franz, 87

FAUTEUX, Benoit, 58

FEIT, Harvey Allan, 31

FELDHAMMER, Louis, 114 :
FERRETTI, Andree, 99-103,.109, A13¥
FISHER, Sethard, 53 :
FORMAN, James, 45, 87

FOULKS, James G., Al/7

FRANK, ‘Andrew Gunder, A16 Jt. :
FREDERICK, Kepyesy, 50-91, 93, a2

FRYE, H. Northrop, A4/5
G

GALLAGHER, John, ‘121 =: 2-2
GARAUDY, Br, Roger (Prof), 98,
a2/2, Ki2/1_

GARCIA, Jacinto, ar

GELLNER, John, 27

GIBBS, beverly, 72, A10/1

GOLDMANN, Lucien (Prof. ),A12/1

GOLDSTICK, Daniel Jeffrey
(Danny), 40, 64-65

__xxGOODINGS, "Stewart, 55-9 |

“GRAHAM, David,

GRAY, Stanley, 34, 50-51, 82,
106-107, 109, 136, A5/1-3

GREENBANK, Tom, 72

GRIFFIN, Phillip, 85

GROULX "Lionel, 100

GUEVARA, "Che", 2h

Hoi.
HALPERIN, Maurice, 126, Al6/2,
Al6/5. ~
HANLY, Charles Mervyn Taylor,
123, A4/1, AL/6
HARDING, James, 30, 32, 39-40
54, 113, A3, A8/1
HAY, Roderick Winston, 118
HAYDEN, Tom, 27
HEIBERT, Ken, 114
HEMMINGWAY, Dave, 72, A10/1
HERZOG, Alan (Fred), 82, A16/5
