# 104-10182-10001

## Page 1

400000;

104-10182-10001

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CORN 1ON5

CINSTON Ale

NRY:

201 6882

1948

UB: 95

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTONAL UNTY/ LOCATIONS

DELETIONS. IP IVY:

bard

goney Dacumat

PONTE

FRECHIVED

RETURNED

alis

RIVINEDDY

CAPINE NNIP

SIGNATURE OF

REVLENING OFFIGE AI

CHAUNA SOUTH

BETSY WOLE

Kay: Hall

alime Suck

Betay kill :

---

## Page 2

3ml Ageway

201-6887

WINSTON

---

## Page 3

Material fue

20/6887

VoL T

Heuy WINSTON

---

## Page 4

POETAL

SECRET

(Wien Filled. In)

(date)

Review of 201 File on U.S.-Citizen

In accordance with the Do's notice of 9 December 1974, I have reviewed

the 201 file on

(surnane) (201 number indicated belov),

and have determined that it can most accurately be catecorized as indicated below:

Should be closed:

(it this category applies,

affix Records Officer stamp.)

Unuttting collaborator:

01 Code A7.

Explanation:

Witting collaborator. For Code A1.NS

Potential witting collaborator; date opened:

01 Code A2.

Former witting collaborator (relationship terminated).

oi Code A3.

Potential witting collaborator never contacted. Of Code A4.

Counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelligence or

security

service).

01 Code. A5.

All others. 01, Code A6.

Signed_

(name)

¡(title)

This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.

Signed

(initials)

This docucent is a pernarent part of chis file.: 201-_

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

(When Filled In)

(component)

(date)

EZ IMPDET CL BY 061475

---

## Page 5

"SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS RL/ERENCE

RIFFILE

- PENTA

SUNSTON, HENSE

•DOS

132-208

25.:

1197

33739

SIca

2

Hit?

327 24-66671

MA MONAL COOHN!

FOR

VIOLATION OF

SANTANET

Levera

120.1473

• FILE THIS FORM IN FILE DO.

867

• 80

3a/!

6FX)

SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT, (Opional)

FRON

WE/S/cHILE

TO: (Officon designation, room number. and

barbding)

MAI

USE ONLY

CO CONFID PAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

EXTENSION

6556

OFFICER'S

AMALS

arTe

CSCI-316/04744-65

9 November 1965

SECRET

DATE

MaiD

POTHAROtO

Not.

3.

30 NOM

WH/PI

CI ITA

15 NOV :955

RID/AN

DA

10.

12.

13.

11.

IS.

3-02

HES 10

501-.688.7

1.5 NOV 1965

ES DEFE

610 MATINOUS E SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 7

SECRET

1 5 NOV 1965

Lovetigatlo

Deputy Directer for Mens

VIAL SPUROET - C

ARIAL BECURITY ACT OP 1950

Lo Reference la sado to your memorandus ot la October 1965,

teonth Congreso of the Commot Party of Chile as a roprocentot190

or the Countet Prarty, USA.

2. In accordance pith your requent; attached for your toleration

and rotantion are bro pieturos or thoes delegates end guest uno vore

hondred by boing seated on the stage at the closing session of the

Thirteenth Congrees on 17 October. Houry Winston appours in ancia

ploture and on the back of me of the plitures are identiclestions of

those individuale

1n Santiago,

Chide.

C5610316 04744-65

Attachsanto:

no otatos abovo 4/s

9 November 1965

Distributions

018 & 1 - Addressee

1: -RI (201-6887)

1 = CI/LIA

1 - CIRJA

1

• WB/4/chilo

1 - WH,21

Besed oas

ECSA - L1888

FICOD

IS CS:

301 - 1597

---

## Page 8

PIED

in D

M1A7AL

SECRET

BLLRCCUCTION PROMIENTEO

ASON/LA

347 4060

DO RID COPY

10 PCS/Dol 1900 bm

me, ve, Celees epics, Pipedra, eS/00

SECRET 1522212

PRIORITY DIR CITE SAGO 0434

21001

FLER IAR

nap untan

REQUEST SOONEST BIO DATA HENRY WINSTON BORN 1911 PP

440197, CPUSA REP COMMUNIST CONGRESS CURRENTLY IN SESSION SAGO,

AND WIFE MARY, BORN 1915, AND APPROVAL PASS FUERIARS PER. FR 51-1

IN VIEW INCESASING FUBRIAR

COOPERATION.

SECRET

CГl 2434

HENRY WINSTON 1S11 PP B-449097 CPUSA REP MAPY 1915

FUBRIARS FOR FR 51-1 FIBRIAR

BT

S.. REI

Impuri i interio

recrie 12042911

erica tere

NANN

150c165

261-6554

---

## Page 9

UNIT:

WE/-YUP

EXT:

DATE:

6067

16 OCT 65

то : ::

PRIORITY SANTIAGO

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF :

WH & NO VI

NESSAGE FORN

FO-NE COPIES:

DIET TED SORET.

& NO INSEX

& PILE IN ES FILENO

23

KUAN TO BRANCH E THE HO

ROUTIO

done 1r15s

SIG AEN

540S2

TO

INFO

PRIORITY SAGO

FUERTAR

REP: SAGO 043 (IT 7396)*

MAY PASS FOLL INFO SUBAR:

1. HAVRY WINSTON (201-6657), NEERO, BORN 2 APRIL 1922 SHIESBURG,

MISSISSIPPI. JOINDO YOUNG COSINIST LEAGUE (YCI) AND CRUSA IS 1931. SETT

TO SOVIET UHION BE CRUSA LI LOV 1953 TO NITED LETTI SCHOOL. REURIED TO

U.S. IN 1935: BECANE ICI MATICAL ORGASIZITIONAL SECY IN NARE 1936.

VISHUDO SOVEr UNICIT NARCE-LIY 1957 AID QI RETURI WE ELECISO ILLITONAL

ALINISTRITIVE SECT OF: YCL. ESTD POSITICE UNTIL 1940 WEI BUGLE MINDER CRUSA

INTONAL COGITTEE. FIND VARICUS POSITIONS AT NATICE COLICE LEVEL

UNTIL 1950.

2. IN 1949 SUBJ WAS CANTICIED AND SENTERCED TO SIVE-YERS EE! FOR

CONSPIRE ADVOCATE OVERTETCH OR U.S. COVE. NOT APRESENDED ULCIL 1956

WILE INFRISONED AND GIVE AUDITICUI TELES YSAR STUENOS FOR CCIDT 0E

COURT. OPERATED ON FOR ERIE: JUIOR FEE 1950 WEILE II PRISO LO VIRTUALLY

BLIND SICO. SENTENCE COANIO AND HE FEELISED IT 1951. LI JUS 1961

ELECTED VICE CHAIRLI CPUS: 20 12-3ER LIQIAL CANTATES.

.....OCNINED:..

OEFIEI9S

MELEASING SERICRA

SOCRET

16600651

Bel- 6857:

AUTI

---

## Page 10

NESSAGE FORT

TOTAS COPIES

SECRET.

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXxxXXXX

ROUTING

F88?

O FILE IN CS FILE NO

FROM DIRECTOR

CONF

PAGE TÃO

FILE B RID COPY

2 :

1506765 17 142

3:0 080

INFO

CITE: DIRE

51062

3. LENT SOVIET UNION SEPT 96I AS CRUSA DELICATE TO INCITY-SECOND

CONGRESS CPSU. UNDERIN MEDICAL TINEGIT AND FORUMSO USA MES 1964.

SUBJECI CONSIDERED WELL TRAINED, DISCIPLINED AND EXFERITICED COLINIST.

4.

TRACES INDICALE THAI SUSJECI SEPARATED FROM HIFT MARY LERVER

CIRCA 196I. SUBJECT HAS THO CAULDRI. NO CONTIRIATION PRESENT MARITAI STAIUS

OR TRACES ON WISE MENTIONED IN REE.

WE CQLENT:

END OF MESSAGE

*Reference requested bio data on Subject and wife for passing

to FUbPIARS.

cI/ful Far Zail (telecaora) - (Duty Opelcer)

"TILIAN. V. BROE

WANG G: 17190

C/n2/4

ASINO CFFIÇEA

SECREI

---

## Page 11

05.1556

SECRET

UNSLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAS

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEETA

TO

WHO BRIN

ANSCON, HENKY

MAPSINS

12 Giga i2 gra

KINO

izames gra

WH/MATROO

1s 19?

10.

11.

RIAN

610г

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLASS!'

---

## Page 12

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA ARASM

SECHET

CLASSIFICATiON

то !:

Chta? of Statioa, Here

TROM Chief, vin

SURECT;

I GANERAL

Concuntet hattere

IS lio, 5 toraber 1954 201-6881

Renry WISTOl, another of the U.s.

apprahended.

APR 1:6 1956

DATE

• has also bees

J. C. KINO

CHHD

11 Apr2I 2956

FDlätr1butsons

3 - Haragua

1 - wH/3/Chrono

1 - WH/Mailroon

W7/3/POr

John T. 3bynan

Coordinary as co)

JEORET

CUSSTICATION

W. GALERAITH

FORM NO.

1889

51-29

201-6887

---

## Page 13

SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

KOUTING AND RECORD SHELT

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the STO" column. Under each comment a line shock to drawn across sheet

and each comment numbered to coresort eith the number in the "TO" column

Each officer should infia? (chech mark insufficient

before further routing. Thiy Rout -and Record Sheet Should be returned to Registry.

FROM:

1512

S4111

DATE

6 Jancan 1955

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS

tea, died

STO

Desmond

Koore

Doefflinger

tarvile

Merelius.

fair.

- Ку 759мх

1855

8, 7

8 1953

8 1955

EB

9.

31/D1

10.

11.

-12.

QUAY

12

11 Ere

GICROFILMEO

AUG 111:55

1".

LE 116ISK

"STRAWLY

INDEX

I HAY Se 51-10 29001

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLASSIFIED

(80)

---

## Page 14

VIA:

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

DISPATCH NO.

TO

FROM

077701

JAR.

CLASSIFICATION

• Cler of stallo, sen doce

JAG TO 1906

DATE:

SPECiFiC. • Cormnlot Maller

- Henry Vinston

1190 19344-816, 19 1.0

mber 1954

2.

ison mo dot a sno

In would appear that ar

Indirmons arat with polloo cover

fog Instance roald have had soro chase

as obtaining Infarention of valso then did MIDUR, and possibly an

inforal request through palies so

woes would band boan productino. More

plaming sheld have gino Intd

tha

oration.

No indreasion to elvis in the rotaronos do to the

Current: 07r.643 05 819

livestition 141a anured that the one will ba kopt opar, and that

furthor efforto all be vado to procuro the infamation roquested.

Horsover, In thorances ouch so Uilo spa station should alaya indiesta

mat rather salloto sno proposed, or it lonst that the lurestigallon

lo boing cort imind.

'I Halcont

T73

TCMI02P

6 8an2ary 1955

Diot tbillons

] - San Jose

1 - ti/erroro

CMM

W/IU17G

Taticasino orescen

COGASIDATING

05.9.

CLASSIFICATION.

AUTME.

OFFICER

1000194

81.80.

116857

---

## Page 15

UNCLASSIFIED

• CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

-thi

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET 28 0v 34

INSTRECTIONS: Officer des mariors sould be used in the TO column Unsor each comment a line shouid de dian across shar

and enment numered te corestond with the number in the "TC" column Each'oficer should initial (check mark insufficient)

helore tuner routing This Ross Sand Record Sheet should te returned to Registry

FROM:

NO

CS: DB-29026

DATE

15 Decenber 195k

DATE

LTELE HOM

Stmott

DEC 15 1954 146

De stand

MOORE

Davis

170

15 Da- 0m

Kl Dee.

Connally

16

ie

Gallary

10.

532730

11.

Marelus

STC

dea

ABSTRUIS NOX TO

080

lor.

Doc as in

184r se 51-10

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLASSIFIED

(08).

---

## Page 16

DEC 26 54

108.

PROM&

SUBJECTI

Dirgator:

Federal Bureau of Lavesilcation

Ättentions Mr. S. J

Perich

Deputy Diroctor, Plane

Henry WINSTON, vas,

Fugitive

180. 1H00 2433

Internal Security C

Roference 1a sade to your, nenorandun, dated 13 October

1954s your 110o Ho 100-1173, concernine the possible presenou

In Costa Rice Of Henry WINSTON, the Anerican fugltive Commintst.

A preliatnary check of the bars, dance halla, and small

cafes of the vatorfront ares in Puerto Limon proved negative.

If any information confirmine the presence of Henry

WINSTON Li Puerto Limon arga is obtained, It will be forwerded

to your Bureau.

•CS: D8-29026

WH/III/Costa Rioo/Ho Stnnott/2

Diatributions

2 & 0T180

1

RC

1

STC

STC/ICB

-WH

1 - WIl/MID

Bosod. ans HRS-A-846

15 Docenter 1951

Al COVY

---

## Page 17

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

19 run.s%

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer dei

Ratione should be used in the To" column,

Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet

and each commens numbered te conto pond with the number in the "TO colume. Each officer should initial (check math insufficient)

before further routing:

This Routing and Rocord Stool should he returred to Registry;

FROM:

RI/ANALYSIS

MRS A - 846

DaTe

TO

WH

OFFICER'S

INITRALS

046

FARION

COMMENTI

Wrea, Nin

Bru Mone

от

CS DO 29020

no mist

W11/ FI/CE

29

1D

ФЕС 2

1954

DEC 2

131. 3

13

105

Copy Detached

ice Feli

De retrinatti meat d

could cored hare bei

come

3 gan 54

stas

case urther dill Tud?

For Callid for DEC :

1554)

120 1062511

ABSTRACT

-INDEX

18 KI F'1

651-10 2-

1409

SECRET

DATE

CONFiDENTIAL

84 NUY 1954

UNCLASSIFIED

180)

---

## Page 18

VIA Ga, A

DISPATCH NO.

HPS-A-046

TO

TROM

MARCATC:

Chief, UHD

DATE

entor or station, san joe SRA

GENERAL Communist Fatters

References HKS-W-449, 5 Hoverber 1954

I. •puerto Limon

In reference, Headcig-ters requested coverago of the

area to _cadow up& thp. to odary. that

subject, American camunist farty fugitive, was/hiding

there.

?.

The Stetion sent Huipod to Puerto Limon for the period

13-15 Novembor to Intesti ate, the report.

HUXIDOR was

instructed to watch especially waterfront area vars,

which Subjoct assertedly Grouented,

HUMIDOR was cautioned

not to vecome involved with Subjects

but only to try to

identily him from the pasto raph forwarded san Joso by

Hondquarters, and then to

try to loarn where Subject

lived, 1f possible:

÷ 3.

on : 1s return to San Jose, HMIDOR reported that he had

had no

luck in spottin: Stuject.

HUTDOR said that thore

aro no bars along the vatorfront arca in Puerto Limón,

bit customs-housus, ecusras and rallway buildings. Tho

first bars aro

Jocsted a out a block up the stroet fron

the waterfront. MUsiDeR checked the cantinas, most of

wiich are located neer tae central market placu, anons

them such isoly han outs as the Salon Central and the

New Hurlem Sar. He also covered Tegro dance halls, as

holl as the Barrio Ciens ulta,arun-down lo ro suuurb

noar the airport.

Hurock reported thet it was like

since the population

1001ng for a noedie 1o a haystack o said that ha could

of Puerto Limon 1s larcely acro.

nated that shorted cold do in cals noor hereo

HUMI DOR

subloct cold no

or he could have

missöd seeing hin

1f he does appoar publicly. For example,

TRI CS.

---

## Page 19

17 Hovember 1954

Dist:

-File

5546

202

---

## Page 20

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING PRIL RECORD SHELT

SECRET

TRÒM:

13, 5

190d

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations shöuld be wel in the TO: samr,

•Under each comment a ine shoull be Jrenn across stoc

and each comment rumbare,

l'egrorerda rico nber inne -tor rolamo. Sach offre shou'jinicial (check mirk insufficient)

before further routing:

This Routing and Fecord Sheet should be Turnel to Registry

•NO:

wH/Im

'DATE

то

:ROC

OFFICER'S:

NITIALS

¡RICO

HRS-H-Wi9

D* 1 Noventier 191

COMMENTS

SINNOTT

NOV 3

DESMOND

MARELIUS

2NOr

7.

3

i 3

$°

WH/Kailroom

ler

-RI/DP

10.

11.

12203

RIAN

MIMH

14..

FUTY

QU/FI

ГотИ

MAY SA D1-10 MAYDELE

501 691)

14 JAN I22 4

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLASSIFIED

(80)

---

## Page 21

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VLA Sper

Soo Pouch

DISPATCH NO HRS-d WIS

Chiel of Station, Sen dose

Chief, VO

SUBICT GENRE Gonnadot Mation

ISPECING deary Vinaton

DATE E

N00 5101954

1.

A senora dim Irus the rederal bureau of invest

Ventlas, detod 13 ictober

Le edents to tai, as are aust

Itoriation cuncoming

Party fultivos uno was rumored to be immalra in Guitonala 1.

recaiitly sa say 1934, and 18 nou sisposadol botag in ruerto himan,

Costa Rica.

2a Ine senioradua proa the Buronu:

"A representativo of aio

ty of the Unliod sentes

Governant In dier Urleons

siona, liss avised he rocolved

a slopiune calls

I cornation from

1al source uno had rosalved

unneter

regardint the gibjoot

(dient; siratori)

Pile Beari

18

alejadly a forcer. nonbas

as una Abrahmi ispeola Eri

nois arid the loanunist 'arty

and as such raño."

was achuai:tad tith the aubjoot.

ariaod tho soiroe th & no hac

r.i1

са рег ог o

L20 a ibj

reportadly vas froquentias bars on tho

•(ho

representative of the othor govarnment ajeney bas

edvlood

ant his sourco rares to be intorvioned by uhe

Fodoral Bireau of Invosugat: on concoming thia saccor sines

ho does not desire tu becono Involves und duos not desiro

to diaclose tra Idantity as tho sossen."

FORM 10.

ICe

1819

51-29

---

## Page 22

14-00000

6TM RESEA

8.8901

30 Atteched are tro costes of the Identificaton undar Laosed by sio

Burgan on tenry liratos, and ura copy of blossy photograph of

äno the barona ataied taut 1. rould to appreciated 11 so could

turnion then with say intoracon do nay bo ablo to obtala concomles

anaton's possible resence la fuerto taco.

FP Nolant

F. P: HOLCOME

AC/WHD

2o viussy priatigrath, leury

astributions

3san dosio, w/orcla. as roLod

1-kH/LII/Chrono,

w/o encl.

1-Wi/Mailromn, wo encl

1-RI/DP, 3/0 encl.

WH/III/Sinnott/alx

DFB-38664

Plat Aphe

HOLC CHIE

---

## Page 23

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDESITAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS. Ollider designations shauld be used in the TO column. Under each commoris a ge snoule be drawi

and each comment numbered to correspond with tho number in the "TO column.

"Each of cer should initial (check mark insufficient)

before further routine

This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry

•FRON::

ма 1160-1-267

DATE

Day 2224

-ROOM

COMMENTS

RIÇ'D

19 s

OFFICERS

INITIALS

1р6

HA SEERIN

DOER ENGER

11 MAY

10

18.

SSERTIS

T4-tn.2n:

ECRATS

t7/-airoom

RIAN

12.153%

тт

≤

7.4.

DM

"Tense detach joit cries

dichel

13 mag

BK.1.

RUNN

p1/74

BRI/EL

10055351-10 MET

1xº%

92771

24

SECRES

CONFIDENTIAL

dear perarine cornce

UNCLASSIFIED

(20)

---

## Page 24

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VLA.

DISPATCH NO. KEYHIST

MAY 1 4 1354

TO

FROM

Cues of stacios, netarle!

GENERAL

2.

1n this voilno

Me faral Brou a cumatliption notiy

pino xo abrit tha

rad to la intding

iollowing

:t 570196 1071

ins leon decer. ind

co sunist dritivo,

in diritue

;0 1:1: 0001 47

"INco on&

14:0: 1100:555

30

L';

2 (. King

7iey: 1081

Ti Carono

/ci lroom

M11/177/:5:

based en 23-13404, 15 car 1214

internal

(Coordinating orticer)

тоян НО.

SL'N

1949

51-29

---

## Page 25

KB/SO/I

VR/SO/R

Chief, Ns

•STC

NE/502 1

NO: 31-10

•SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SO DB-S4054 to PEl.

JUN 6 $ 1952

HUN 196

F1 5 18 JUN IS

Quna

Thall: typist: uppercise

last names it reope N

interast

suth

Hamy winston as

ABSTRACT INDEX A

DATE JUN 30 1952

SECRET

---

## Page 26

SECRET

SEC OITY INTORMATION

TC 3

Tructor

Fedoral curenu of Investigation

attentions

So So Jo Papich

859)48

Lyson T. Kirkpitrick

dosittint it rustor

SUS VICTI

Henry Inaton, tag.

rugitivo

L6N24336

Intonal Socurity = C

18 HIN 1952

1. Referenco la inde to your conmunication dated 28 Soptemba

1951 concoming suojecto

2.

This Offico has received infornation datid l June 2952 from

s usuall rellable sourco whict rafiects tat efforts

nure nade to

Locato subject In Illy but its nogativo rusures.

It 19

not bollovod that any further information rill be

sorrearling

in thile rosard. laever, should this Uffice reccive any

dats pertlant to your inculry, you rill bo advised.:

50. 05-54.054

HE/SÖ/Italy

Orig:

IN-43241

6 Juna 1952

in 600V

SECRET

---

## Page 27

Co

OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

"SECRET

ROLAESA

TOPERATIONS

VE (1 4)

SECUR TIN INFORMATIONNE

ROUTINE

284 MAY 53

OUT 79910

RI G-6, 4D/SO (7). OPS (810 5/C 2-1002

phras Not Regured: Hands Co SECRET Care ponder

oper Para 51 00) 604%

MASY 42951

TO:

ROMEF

CITE:

PASHF

DYACACO PRESSING MOSFOR REPLY SOONEST TO PIRU-3924.

INTELLIGENCE

J00 2 1952

INTEGRATION DIVISION

1

SO LENINGTON

BRANT ONES 32 MAY MAY SERICIANG AND QUADINING ORCARS

TOD:

SECRET

TUS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

J. BAINE

Copy Sa

CiTING OTTICEN

6

11200-91

'ото.

---

## Page 28

IDENTIFICATION

ORDER NO: 2053

WANTED

HENR

MINSTON

TED ER ILE BUREAU, OF MIESTIGATION

ATTED STATES DEPARTIAT OF J03-12

WASHINGTON, DIC

TPC 6:3191

LE CHOSE

*9: 13

CONSPIRACY TO ADVOCATE THE VIOLENT

E GOVERNI

Zeny Wisen

DESCRIPTION

Minston was convicted on Octob

1948 edi). Ne was sentenced to five ye

a Bench Warrant on dully 2. 1951 for

194e for

of-the;

LDENITICATION ORDER NO 240

of the saith aét (Section 11.

S.

District Court in new

court: for consitsent to ori

u.s.C.

ediately notify

Charge

HOOVER, DIRECTOR

---

## Page 29

•TO:

FROM:

201 PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

RED/201 Section Roos GA-25

Tibe Address

OFFICE

SECRET

NOTE: SEE INSTRU

DW-6

CATE

ACTiON

CMANCE

9538)

801. 50.

iddle

SEX *ilo

DATE OF BIQTH

CITAZENSMIP

15. DOCUMENT SYMBOL a NUMBER

!?: COMMENTs (rone for indes cordo)

IR. OCCUDATION CelDer PORE)

DATE

DEC. 6856/13.301

COUMTAr.Or.LOCAT.IoM

MIORMATIDN ADORESSAES

11. IPTONTE

Tonruer or acoustin

coot

ACTION BEIN

CoOr

8O. SECONDARY CISE

C EA

MAND CARRY: JA FORMARO DY TUBE IF TULE MAVE APPEARS ARUVE.

260 mo.

831

SECRET

1=1)

---

