# 104-10103-10356

## Page 1

104-10103-10356

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992.

SECRET

23

No: 3809)

Date: 31 December 1974

29

DESK]

We attach .....

from FETCH]

01

2

copies of note number ..

23

(615]

• of

19 December 1974

Yours sincerely

06

WHerellul

(802710Ea83) 06

(pp. R. Murphy] 06.

rouse: reismal

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

* Do Not Repfoduce

---

## Page 2

23

NICE NO 1615/05 12

Daceuber 1074

1.

BRULd loft lavana for ladrid and ionion on 9 Decenber,

flying by hir cubana at the invitation of

the juban coverm

ment who 2lao said for her faro iron lina to davina.

was of courso the quost of the cubzas curing the nonth abo

apont here;

a car and a Mitili, "ohaperone"

wore at her

constant disuosal.

She wa:, towever, Ir fron being

enbarrased by those attentiona and evidently considered

then no more than hor lud sirce she was, in affect, workiag

for the cubans thensolvos ruthor than or bohall of my

foreiga nouspapora

20

I found suule inconsistent in her description of how

she had covered her, tricisa to make sure that her. Chas visit

would not cons to the attention ofto merican authorttias.

The first time

se net she claiced taat too arrangesents ior

hor travel had been nade in virtually claruastine conditions

with Cuban officials acoralited to the ji.

the was anyazy

soine to Brazil enù thercfore selcetod the Lind iavana route

as her way into duba;

as she exulained, the cuban inui ration

autoritios woro bricfed not to maris her yassport.

boped that by followine a devious route out of cuba she could

eventually arrive in the statoa vithout trousin; suspicions

about where sno had boen in the nrevious to months

slightly contradictiue this arparent cucer to conceal her

Cuba visit

shrs sumitted on another occarion that 44 was more

than robable that the dId would rusble her and indeod, they

would knoi: of her intontion to cone to cuba since sho had

openly roguested permission to travel fros the stato Departient.

Ber application bad born refused, which, wile it uld not

surprise her; comirmed nor vior thet the inericin authorities

were determined to victinise nor because of ber politival

viens:: certain other caterories of anericine were being

alloved by tua state jepartmert to travel lo cuba.

3.

It was eviient fron swuld's own nuilcd and confused

logio thet she

Is notitited by a profound and alnost

vitriolic hatred of as

she put it, tha us toverntent and

the repeatedly derigrated her la citizenship,

olalain, that it was tha result of "an accident of birts"

She ingisted that in evory other respect except ner birto

certiticate ibe was latin inerican (Bragilian) and not

Averican.

Her rufcrinces to ber on not.or scened 2130.

to be sli htly contemptuous, clearly hur etrongest

attachmaat. is.to her futhor whor she described as tho only

exception in la family of Lascists".

the maaber of the

Ianily who appearsi to be her pot hate ras

a crandfather

resident in brazil who orked for the tercodes bens couvany

and had sons responsibility for the prosuction oi nipali.

To judge Iron the frequency with wich she discussed her

fatner, I sho:la say ho has boon the strongest iullucase.

They sharo nuch the save political vierpoint and

according to sule it was her futher's growing dislike oi

the.

---

## Page 3

the New York Ilnes' political position which persusded

him to resign and follow his oun bent as i ficclance..

They bota believed tait a jourmalict should

express his

own "personal" viors instrad of tuose of a particular

дендрарет.

The abuse and vituperation wüich judie coured out

against the lü seemed as illogical and 1l1 founded as her

unquestioning ascumption that ev rything about the cuban

systria ropresented tho nonrest thit human society had

cose to utoria.

der mivo onthusiasm for that she was

shown in cuba, and her dogantic endorsement of it ally

excluded any possibility of her reachine an objective

asiessment.

§I exarole, the odor lo ular systen

which sho vicited had fired har laagination and ane

refuses to consider any of the more negative aspects which

might have inplied criticisn.of. the vrbar suthorities.

You may care to note that cho intonas to puttish an

article on Foder jopular in jaraio nagazine (1 would

bo interested to see a copy.)

5.

As you nig now stuLt was divorcod (or sopirated)

fron surant Blus in 1312 after only 2 years o1 narcluse.

Her husbund, she said, vas a case for a psychoanalyst und

had needed a nother rather than a nife; Julü atill secued

to be confused uni depressed over the carriago althouga i

understand thit she has taken the decision to eal it

herself.

Hor educational buckaround, seens to. haro been

vory viriod;

apart fros the Catablishments tontiored in

your traces she said the had attendud the british school

in Rio do janelro (st. which she picked un a phoney nglish

accent she can still assuno) and Berkeloy Univoraity.

6.

•I dobt whether the dividenis Iron hor virit weie as

good as she had expecter.

..At our firat incounter in tho

appartient of olaudo REGIN she saue extravagant clios

about her nission suici sho interpretod is being to assist

the Cubans in uncovering inforuation on CIA intelligenco

activity on the island

and to ponetrste thu foroige and

diplomtic connunity.for tin gux-ose.

remarkable thit she should have been so indiscrent:

I think the explanation lies priuarily in ber naivete

and ready ascunption of a sympathetic audience, in a

desire to inpress and a lomacity inluced either oy

alcohol or possibly by drugs of sone kind.

scomed to ocour to her for a comont that

openly about the purpose of her visit abe vas in effect:

blowin- hersolf.:

HoweVer, unlous she leurned creator

discretion iuriar the four

weaks she was here it would.

aprear unlikoly that she cane anywhere neit realising her

Intentions.

hen we met on 3 jocenber sue told me

spontaneously (afler sevcrul stiif run coliing) that

although sho bid it laut succcese: in making contact with

Cuban intelli:,nos officers they were your unt inezperiences

and were not at a nigh enough level for the discuasions

/sho.

---

## Page 4

she wished to bave.

She couplained that she had spent

too much time with lImux officials who had no real idea

of the win parnose of the visit and it had then about

two weeks to set through to a verson with the appropriato

responsibilities.

How that she was in touch witi this

indiviúual she had anzod for a meetiri with lanuel

FINDINO.

know whethor sho

SaW PISTINO before

sue loft, but I think le is unlikely).

Up to that point

SauLo bad passed the Cubans

"useful"

naterial on. ciA

operations (mainly in latin inerica) but had rocaived

vory little la returi.

She was rather distressed by this

luck of rociprocity, pointing out to ma that she was after

ell on tho lubang"

side and was offoring them the

opportunity to onbarress the Americuns by publicstion os

danging material.

LoweTer, JulEing fron her oupboria

wien I saw her vory briefly on? Docember she hay perhaps

received sonething furthur fros

tho cubang.

In any cases. it seems s'e nay bave been loss active

on the intelligence frout thar she had espected and as far

ag I know she had little or no contact with scabers ut the

diploratic conaunity.

tuch of her time 13s arent outside

Harina visiting the rovinces and in particular latanias

where she was alloved a detailed look at loder ropular.

saulC intends to come back to Cuba in 1975 Ior the

first congress of the suban communist -artjo

---

