# 104-10172-10044

## Page 1

104-10172-10044

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Perts Fernandi

EA'S

413

23 CU: 61

CLASSIFIED M'ESSAGE

S80.31

SIRECTOR

FICH & VINAVE

ACTION,

BELL 10 (TEYSO COPY SLOTTED BELL 1600 23 JUN GI)

#0 .

COP, COP, ADO:/A, WA 5, S/C 2

6

JUN 23 19542 61

PRIORITY

IN 29543

CITE

PRITY DIR INFO BARR CITE WAVE 6S47

JNZIP AMASPEN

REF A. BELL 1132 (64T. 52413)4

DO WAVE 6597 ENOT SENT BARRY 6012953)

1. I: PAST TOPPINOJHAS DISCQUITED PURGIASES TÓ NIS COST 0S

CASH BASIS. BECAUSE OF DELAY PAYMENT FOR TO GAGNOLIA GOATS

AND RUSH CIP.CUM STATOES. UNDER KHICH THEY PROCURED, HE WAS FORCED

NEGOTIATE TUO LOANS AT HIGY INTEREST SATE TO WEET CURRENT

OBLIGATIONS AND THEREFORE UNAGLE DISCOUNT COST IN THIS INSTANCE.

Z. BOATS STORED SARR BECAUSE: (A) THEY BUILT FOR SPECIAL

AND OBVIOUS PURFOSE AUD WHEN STORED IN OPEN ATTRACT ATTENTION

AND COMMENT. (3) BOATS AND ENGINES SUBJECT TO DETERIORATION

FROM VEATHER EXPOSURE IN OPEN STORAGE. (C) [TOPPINOJHAS PROVIDED

MATERIAL ASSISTANCE TO BARR WHICH VAS NOT AVAILAGLE ELSEWHERE

AND UHICH NORMAL SUPPLY ELEMENTS COULD NOI PROVIDE. HENCE BARR

DESIRED ASSIST HIM PRESERVE HIS INVESTHENT PENDING RESOLUTION

PAYMENT QUESTION. (D> [TOPPINO PROVEDED BARR EITH CERTIFICATE

OF RELEASE FROM LIABILITY.

O20NT

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

S/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

male it?

35-3

PM

PACE

3.

GARR/SAVE TILL COMPLY PARA ZA OF REF A.

4. ME PARA 2E OF REF A, CO3 BARR STATES THIS HAS BEEN SOP

I ALL HIS DEALINGS AND THAT IN NO CASE HAS BARR INCURRED

GELICATIONS TO MR- FLOPPINO] WITHOUT SPECIFIC AUTHORITY.

5. FOUR SEPARATE CASES INVOLVING FINANCIAL OSLIGATIONS AFTER

THE FAST (I.E. RADAR FOR TEJANA, MAGNOLIA BOAT FOR TEJANA, TVO

ABOVE SOATS AID ONE CATAMARAN RE THE DIRECT RESULT OF

ALLEGED CONMITMENTS BY CASE.OFFICERS OR CONMITHENTS MADE BY

KUBARK SPONSORED CUBAN ELEMENTS OVER WHICH BARR HAD BEEN

INABLE TO EXERGISS CONTROL AS IN CASE OF TEJAMA. THEREFORE

WAVE/BARR WHOLE-HEARTEDLY CONCU! PARAS B AND C OF RES AO.

•G. RE PARA 3 REF A, FOUR INSTANCES CITED ASCUE UNDOUSTEDLY

CAUSED BY OVERWKELMING ANXIETY YOS AND WAVE CASE OFFICERS AS

WELL AS SPONSORED CUBAN ELEMENTS BE OPERATIONALLY REAL'Y AT

TIME WHEN FRE-INVASION PREPARATORY ACTIVITIES AND LAST-MINUTE

PROCUREMENT MAD HOUNTED TO FEVERISH PITCH WITH CONSEQUENT

DE-E:PHASIS ON ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS.

7. RESULT OF JOBES INVESTIGATION THIS NATTER BEING POUCHED.

8. WAVE/SARR AGREE THAT COMPLIANCE WITH PARAS 2 B AND C OF

REF. A WILL PREVENT SIMILAR OCCURENCES IN FUTURE.

END OF MESSAGE

LES COMMENT:

*AUTHERIZED WAVE FUNDS FOR TWO BOATS, GAVE INFO RE STORAGE

AT BARR AND AUTHORIZATION PURCHASES.

REPROQUETIC! EY GTIER"

CiTICE IS PRCHIBITES.

ZIER:

---

