# 104-10067-10291

## Page 1

104-10067-1029

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

.021

SECRET

FRP :

ADV LA

19002

STAFF

ACTION:

C/LAaB

INFO: FILE, VRA C/COSA CACI-4, DICOMMO-5, CWO-;

DDA, CHIP/DMS, COPD-DO OGC-2, OLE, DISECUR-3A DOI/PA, DDO-4, CS/RF,

78 0443808

PAGE 001

TOR: 211827Z MAR 78

IN 0443808

MEXI 44345

SECRET 2IITDOZ MAR 78 STAFF

CITE MEXICO CITY 44345

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

"NINTEL RYBAT MISPLASH

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 190792

B.

MEXICO CITY 44308 0429877

C. DIRECTOR 184902

1.

REF A CABLE ANSERS SOME OF THE QUESTIONS OF PRIMARY

CONCERN TO THIS STATION, BUT AT SAME TIME, IT CONFIRMS THE WORST

FEARS EXPRESSEO IN REF 6 CONCERNING REVELATIONS ABOUT OPERATIONS

AGAINST THE SOVIET TARGET IN MEXICO CITY.

2.: IN ORDER OF IMPORTANCE, THE NBC PROGRAM CANNOT HELP BUT

BE DAMAGING TO U.S. SECURITY INTERESTS AND THIS AGENCY IN THE

FOLLOWING MANNER:

A.

REVELATION OF SOURCES.

THE STATEMENT BY BACH IN

REF C

THAT HE "HAD NUT IDENTIFIED ANY SOURCES BY NAME OR DES-

CRIPTION THROUGHOUT THE TAPING..." IS REFUTED BY THE STATEMENT

THAT A SOVIET NAS RECRUITEO BY FORNER COS (ROGER T. KINGMAN)

DURING HIS TOUR. APART FROM THE DESCRIPTION OF THE CIRCUM-

STANCES UNDER WHICH THE HECKUITMEMT WAS MADE, THE SIMPLE STATE-

MENT THAT A SOVIET OFFICIAL WAS RECRUITED IS SUFFICIENT TO

SET OFF A FULL SCALE INVESTIGATION BY THE KGB INTO EVERY

SOVIET OFFICIAL ANO SERVED IN MEXICO CITY DURING THAT TIME

FHAME. THE SOVIETS HAVE THE RESOURCES AND DETERMINATION TO

EVENTUALLY IDENTIFY THE SPY.

B. FUTUKE RECRUITMENTS.

HOW WILL IT BE POSSIBLE FOR

THIS AGENCY TO RECRUIT SOVIETS, ON ANYONE FOR THAT MATTER, IF

THE AGENCY CANNOT OFFER GUARANTEES THAT THE IDENTITY OF SOURCES

•ILL NOT DE EXFOSCO MY SONE EMPLOYEE, REGARDLESS OF MOTIVATION?

PHILE THIS PROGRAM KILL HAVE INMEDIATE IMPACT IN MEXICO CITY,

LA PALA AND NORTEVIDEO, THE FALLOUT AFFECTING FUTURE RECRUITMENTS

HILL BE WORLD MINE.

SECRET

97442

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ULUNGI

STAFF

78 0443808

PAGE 002

TOR: 211827Z MAR 78

:IN 0443808

MEXI 44345

C.

REVELATION OF METHODS.

THE OPERATIONAL TRADECRAFT

AND METHOUS (TELTAPS) REVEALED

8Y. BACH ARE

V. WHILE IT MAY BE ARGUED THAT THE METHODSEHAVE BEEN

EXPUSED BY OTHERS SUCH AS AGEE, THE BACH REVELATIONS WILL HAVE

FAR GREATER IMPACT BECAUSE THEY CARRY@THE IMPRIMATÜR DE

REPUTABLE U.S, NEMS AGENCY AND ORIGINATE WITH A PERSONS

NOT IN LEAGUE WITH ANY HOSTILE COUNTRYSCAS FAR AS WE KNE

DAMAGE

THIS STATION'S OPERATIONS ARE

THE REIATIONSHID THIS STATION

PERABLE SEGMENT OF

I THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT IS EXTREMELY

IS NOT UNLIMITED. EXISTING

UR POTENTIAL OPERATIONS COULO BE CURTAILED.

E• DAMAGE TO EXISTING SOURCES, IT REMAINS TO BE

SEEIN MOM MANY CURRENT SOURCES WILL CONTINUE COLLABORATING WITH

THE AGENCY IN MEXICO CITY COR OTHER STATIONS) AFTER THIS PROGRAM

IS RELEASED.

F .

EMBARRASSMENT TO PRESIDENT LOPEZ PORTILLO.

AS

NOIEO

IN REF B, THE MEXICAN PRESIDENT WILL TRAVEL TO MOSCOW ON

A STATE VISIT IN ABOUT SIX WEEKS TINE.

AS A MEANS TO DAMAGE

CIA, IT WOULO NOT BE UNLIKE THE SOVIETS TO POINT OUT THAT

UNBRIDLED CIA UPERATIONS AGAINST A LEGITIMATE SOVIET PRESENCE

IN MEXICO ARE A MATTER OF CONCERN TO THE SOVIET UNION AND A

POTENTIAL IMPEDIMENT TO CONTINUING FRIENDLY RELATIONS BETWEEN THE

THO COUNTRIES.

THE PRESIDENT MAY CHOOSE TO FINESSE SUCH A STATEMENT,

BUT THE POINT WILL HAVE BEEN MADE.

G.

STATION SECURITY. DURING PAST MONTHS, HARDLY A

DAY HAS PASSED WHEN

THE LOCAL PRESS HAS NUT CARRIED SOME ATTACK

AGAINST ALLEGED CIA ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO.

WITHIN KECENT WEEKS,

THE AGENCY HAS BEEN ACCUSED OF EVERY CRIME FROM THE MURDER OF

PRESIDENT KENNEDY TO THE ABDUCTION OF ALDU MORO, THE NBC PROGRAM

WILL. PROVIDE NEW GRIST FOR THE LOCAL PROPAGANDA

MACHINE AND FURTHER

HIGHLIGHT CIA PRESENCE IN MEXICO WITH CONCUMITANT EROSION OF

STATION SECURITY.

H. FUTURF BACH REVELATIONS.

THERE PROBABLY IS NO WAY

TO ESTIMATE THE AMOUNT OF INFOGWATION THAT BACH HAS REVEALED

TU NNAUTHORIZED PERSONS. HACH ADHITS THAT HE HAS UNBURDENED

HIS

SOUL TO MIS FRIENDS, AND UNDOUBTEOLY HAS PROVIDED MATERIAL TO NBC

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

jECRET

STAFF

78 0443808

PAGE 003

TOR: 211827Z MAR 78

IN 0443808

MEXI 44345

WHICH WAS NOT USED ON THE PROGRAM. FURTHER, AFTER THE PROGRAM

IS BROADCAST, BACH WILL BECOME AN INSTANT CELEBRITY AND A

SUBJECT OF INTEREST TO OTHER NEWSMEN OF VARIOUS STRIPES. WHEN

WILL HIS REVELATIONS. END?

STATION WOULD APPRECIATE RECEIVING MORE PRECISE IDENTIFI

CATION OF SITES MENTIONED PARA 5 REF A, PARTICULARLY THOSE OF

RESIDENCES AND LANDMARKS.

WERE THESE

THE RESIDENCES OF FORMER

OR CURRENT STATION PERSONNEL? WOULD ANY OF THE LANDMARKS BE OF

CONCERN TO THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT?

RECOGNIZE THAT IN ABSENCE OF

SOUND TRACK, THAT IT NOULD BE DIFFICULT FOR ANYONE EXCEPT A

PERSON FAMILIAR WITH MEXICO CITY AND STATION OPS ACTIVITIES TO

IDENTIFY THESE LOCATIONS AND JUDGE THEIR SIGNIFICANCE.

NEVERTHELESS,

SUCH INFO ESSENTIAL IF STATION TO COMPLETE DAMAGE ASSESSMENT

PRIOR BROADCAST OF THIS PROGRAM. PLS ADVISE SOUNEST.

4. FILE: 200-120-150. EZ, IMPDET.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

---

