# 104-10076-10371

## Page 1

1104-10076-10371

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTINE

43 SECRET

•TO:

DIRECTOR

FROM:

IMWAVE

ACTION: SAS 8

INFO:

DOP, SOD

6,

CA. 2,

CA/PEe,

CA/PROP

2,

F0/e,

ci/Ops,

"F!

IN

SR 7, WH 7, DD/1,

40/cT 2, AD/NC, AD/ R$

TOES

ARE T 120028Z

CP INFO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE 8923

12 DEC 84282 63

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

INTEL TYPIG

•SUPDATA: AMLISP-1 IN SW MSG 317 DTD 10

NOV RECO FROM TRANSLATION

SO NOV 63 INFORMANTS ARE AUDIL 10

SURGIDERO DE BATABANO

06

RESIDENT AND FORMER WHOLESALE FRUIT VENDOR, AND EDILIO

BESIDENT OF FINCA ALGOBIN, BATABANO, BOTH WERE RECRUITED BY (NU)

DE LA TORRE FULL IDEN NOT ESTABLISHED. FIELD COMMENTS ARE FROM

AMSUM-4 MONITORING OF CLT. RID. NO INDEX. FILED 12//28Z

PEPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRYS CUBA

TRAVEL OF SOVIETS FROM BATABANO TO ISLA DE PINOS.

CARGO TRAFF LO BETWEEN SLA DE PINOS AND RATABANAO

14 CONMEN

LATION OF THE ATTA

" OF THIS CAPIR MADI

HE ASTON VANT

IN 78723

70C$

PRECEDENCE

RELEASING MED SO

DATE DIST

BASED ONE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CE GRAM IINFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

Aho Ma: AN

CUSSINCATION DISSIMINATION CONTROLS

DUNIRY

VIJECT

REPORT NO. TDOS

DATE DISTR

PRECEDENCE

REFERENCES

LATE OF

INFO.

LACE &

MATE AÇO.

PPRAISAL

QUACE

IN 78723

THIS IS UNEVALUATED MPOI

FIELD REPORT NO.

ARE DEFINITIVE: APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

ON 6 NOVEMBER 1963, AT ABOUT 6:00 P.M., TWO TRUCKS, NOT OF

U.S. MANUFACTURE, TRANSPORTING A TOTAL OF 24 MEN, WHO APPEARED TO

SE SOVIETS, ARRIVED IN BATABANO, HABANA PROVINCE, THE MEN WERE

WELL GROOMED, WORE CLEAN CLOTHES AND WERE CARRYING SUITCASES AND

BUNG-ES.

AT MIDNICHT THESE INDIVIDUALS BOARDED THE FERRY SAILING

FOR ISLA DE PINOS, (FIELD COMMENT: A USALLY RELIABLE SOURCE

REPORTED THAT THE ISLA DE TESORO, THE REGULAR FERRY TO ISLA DE

PINOS, DEPARTED FROM BATABANO FOR GERONA, ISLA DE PINOS, ON THE

NIGHT OF 6 NOVEMBER.)

2. ON 31 OCTOBER AT ABOUT LA:MA P.M., TWO OLIVE GREEN TRAILER

CLARMINICATION -

SECRET

Gar: 00)

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

---

## Page 3

14-00000

* 78723

SECRET

TOOS

TRUCKS MAUTING BOXCE ARRIVED AT THE PORT DI BATABANO PROM

ISLA DE MINOS.

3.

ON 28 OCTOBER AT ASOUT SURE P.MI, TWO OLIVE GREEN TEN-

WHEELED TRUCKS DRIVEN BY MILITIAMEN ARRIVED IN BATABANO AND WERE

SHIPPED ABOARD THE ISLA DE PINOS FERRY WHICH LEFT THE SLIP AT 4:00

P.M. THE TRUCKS HAD AN ENCLOSED METAL BODY WITH SMALL SIDE

WINDOWS AND EACH TRUCK PULLED A FOUR-WHEELED TRAILER. (FIELD

COMMENTS A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE REPORTED THAT ON 28 OCTOBER

ZIL TRUCKS WERE ON BOARD THE ISLA DE TESORO FERRY WHICH SAILED

FOR GERONA. J

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMNAVKEYWEST.

END OF MESSAGE

EN SCARON-204 SATOR SORTEGL

SECRET

---

