ee MAC Cee rer Tree ON As, =eanmepaeeaeae
‘104-10182-10073) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 :

FILE PLDLE/NUNBER/VOLUME: GUCKES, AL 2
neue yaaa yd.

INCLUSIVE DATES;

Aerie tashFee uc ounn

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FRO3I THIS FILE



Shiai =u

jc

SUPReAUN NOTEO SPELLING SUBJ NAME IN REPORT

GIVEN AS nCEKS FRENCH PHUNETIC RENUERING OF ~
WICKS

R 7301180251

TéesSubsect, Project Or
tte No. In Wniea Tais ~
Fors Is To Be Filed.

ide)

trae 867

perry

SECRET



7 -ERTRAGT: AND CROSS REFERENCE

Pare DOCUAGNT IDENTIFICATION.
A ee |

201+8017¢2

‘
: 1
H © 200-011-o10/05 |
1 Sex M008 2 (BD. =19954 H
! see 30 sul 71
} CHT Rnooes ta Far
; OCC. MERCENARY

LOCATED. on IBIZA IStano IN THE BELEARIC
ESLANODS ASSOCIATED W/COLe. PETERS, AND MIKE
HOARE

R. 7209230296:

+t Or
| “Indicate The Subject, Project, Or
* 201 File No. In Which This

Forn'Ié To Be Filed.

SUBJECT O7 401 (Leet, Firet, middle)



' oy ‘2a a ‘ommand to:M

One: of ‘tercenaries. ‘involved in July 66 plot

DOB: “17 Novenber i9i7

“POB: England i
Citizenship: : Riedel dan’. = a
- Jul. 66 Address: 3@ fontacue Sauate ~ Mar ‘67 Address: 199 Bickenhal1 '
London’ Ww. é Mansions ”
ft Len ion

“(tives under Janis Norris)
Mercenary in. Katanga. esha, “i961 :

Former RAS» AR odesian. Air ‘Setvices)of ficial.

ike” HOARE in.5 en Bs
Left - ‘Leopoldvilie Dec 1965. at ‘teratnatior of mercenary con
for. Johannesbur; | =

to overthrew MOBUTU
falthough st4ll'in’ the pay of MOBUTU)™ : :

: Aso, tried. to invorye Michael HOARE in the plot. Ke offered ~
HOARE: 20,000 & for 6 -month contract and rank of full Colonel...

Recruiting Gfficer in South Africa for Tshombe's forces. .166
Unwitting SMOTH contact - 1666

= Went to London in October 1966

Unscrupulous and undépendable

Bol - EATER



KINSHASA 0864 HOARE stated he going London about 12 March. to

{IN 17389) heck on Yezen deal. HOARE had. previously received

9 Mar.1957 °° latter from Alastair WICKS in London offering him : ;
fe job with good pay und conditions. He believes this ee

iO oie ae Job concerns Yemen,

-AZPA“2201 Attached a letter from WICKS to: HOARE, indicating WICKS
16-Mar 67 unable to develop Proposition further, HOARE estimates

‘ : . that the WICKS croposition relatés to recruitment of: mer-
cenaries for 'servicé in Yezen. His only basis: for this is develop.
ment reported. in AZPA 2200. :

ho) Ser 76R



Attachment h/w
letter —

Dist Hibution:
Orig. & 2 - C/AF w/att

“par SP YES

Kenneth. H,. PHILBROOK

(OGAATOH STACI ABD WLR

AZPA -~ 3050

waSRCTION
S-E-C-R-E-T



fecoo00

s ec toda ;
HWAVT TO AZPAS. AG |’ March 70

e basiness aid Chavet

Sto give an estimate as thi previous-one,
sho: wad virtually unknown to mey did sot seem to unis castand?

thei yortar

ave had to put cif mi depattire: for one week 28 avresult-©

of this as it wai

important to keep.my fingers onthe pulse at

this moment, Dhave.ameeting withthe partners fomerros shed ug
Thope’ to get things moving and a firm fer se nt to bankers,

°° "L meationed'to thy partners that you had some novel ideas

to solve the delivery problem and in view of the possible extra
cost, they have asked me to get an outline from you as to what
your ideas are, both from the point of view of additional expense’
which, if. adopted, would need to be included in the budget ana also _

to give some added encouragement since this particular problem

comes’ up again and again and sv far | have refused to be drawn

on the subject though you know my first ideas, ‘Tthink a letter
to the Club ‘Natitico vill reach me safely though it would obviously
be inadvisable to mention the Spice Isiands.

I hear there is much afoot in your part of the world and both

Brazzaville ‘and the Sudan have been mantiotied alse another
operation, I hope you will not return to that sort of thing == at

least. until we have fully explored. the po:

ibilities of the new

company,

(dated 25 February 1970),
PYULESS

gemma ree

£8 cepy

:
i
E
E


Sere

IN MERCENARY

WITH, AMES ALASTAER 1 EDMOND “WICKS”: WAS: MERCENARY IN KATANGA rit

AN JULY 1964;' RETURNED TO. conco AS. SECOND IN COMMAND TO MICHABL
HOARE’ 5 §PHITE MERCENARY GROUP, ~WAS LOCAL MERCENARY RECRUITED FOR

_TSHOWRS 14 SALISBURY, “MAJOR IY HEADQUARTERS DETACH QE.5TH ColmANDO

IN CONGO FEBRUARY 1965. RESIGNED. FROM STH COMMANDO IN. DECEMBER-T965,
WENT ‘D0. JOHANNESBURG: ACTING AS MERCENARY RECRUITING OFFICER IN SOUTH
AFRICA, WAS ONE OF THE MERCENARIES INVOLVED IN JULY 1966 PLOT TO OVER-
THROW MOBUTU BY FORMER CONGOLESE PRINE HINISTER MOISE TSHOMBE INVOLVING
THE SYH COMMANDO MERCENARiES. _ IN JULY 1967 wickps REPRESENTED JACK
MALLOCH'S AIR TRANS AFRICA IN LONDON, FUNCTION IN LONDON DESCRIBED AS
LIAISON WITH AUTAIR or LONDON AND TO ARRANGE MERCENARY FLIGHT TO CONGO,
HOWEVER, THESE ops HAVE VIRTUALLY CEASED, AUGUST. 1967 wreKgs TYVOLVED

SWERTHROW CONGOLESE GOVERNMENT, WAS IN LISBON,
MIGROFILMED

FEB 27 1968 :
f coormmanne orncits
Me ae Nat aaa aveaerica
wuame deen MICKO. aah SECRET ] (rE: =~] Aummerearing
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN-THE ISSUING OFFICE I$ PROHIBITED. COPY NO.
sari : i 5 Ar Sl 76%

B - der CSIBTS , eaeeeeeteererteanecsntatny Bepes——



meveace rome
Totad C2:

“se caet

“IN ORDER TO.

IT APPEARS MALLOCH HAS BEEN OBLIGED. TO: ACCEPT CONTRACTS
IN AUGUST 1967 HE OPERATED TWO CONSTELLA-

KEAP IN BUSINESS,
‘WHICH ARE OBVIOUSLY ILLEGAL,
TIONS AND'A DC-4, LAST MENTIONED USED ON FREIGHT SERVICES FROM LUANDA,
meseca
ANGOLA, AND LISBON, AND ON OPERATIONS FROM SAO TOME TO . IN LATE
AUGUST, HALLOCH ‘FLEW 39 BELGIAN AND ‘FRENCH MERCENARIES INTO PUNIA VIA
LUANDA IN A.DC-6, HAD AT HIS DISPOSAL FOR THE AIRLIFT ONE DC-7, TWO
ND ONE pe-3. WAS WORKING WITH ALASTAIR WICKES IN THE MERCENARY

Dead's
PLANS TO OVERTHROW THE CONGOLESE GOVERNMENT. JOHN PETERS ATTEMPTED TO,
TI HIS SFFORT WITH THAT OF WICKBS AND MALLOCH, AND THEY S33 ‘TENTATIVELY
AGREED TO A PLAN: :TO FLY ‘REINFORCEVENTS TO" SCHRAMME TO SERCRAF beet al
AT UVIRA, NO. INFORMATION ON EITHER WICKPS OR MALLOCH IN FILE AFTER
AUGUST 1967, ALTHOUGH WELL KNOWN THEY CONTINUE ASSOCIATION WITH BIAFRAN

wees

AIRLIFT.

: gooesounne ormens
MITA ATOrS
manson orice [ SECRET me
corr no, -



HEADQUARTERS: HAS NO- INFORW
FOR*ARD LAGOS: YOUR TRACES. it

N \
ar/s_ WOW. \,

E/BC/UK Efe) 9 ise Ail

i codsmtiine creer
eiuisund covets

ascend ee ener
le SECRET eames

avimenncaring
cama brceeniad
REPRODUCTICN BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE {5 PROHIBITED. 1 ore ma,

Fy

.
‘
a
.

+

Pi

TRACES ON ANY. OTHER INDIVIDUALS ‘CITED REF



14000

"RERROGUC HON OF RS coor PRONTO Bl

“et ROE EARULE PEPER

Lagos 3552, a 45: Tift: he PES = Cea
De DIRECTOR 744125 :

Se ai APPRECIATE REF. HOWEVER, STATION'S ORIGINAL QUERY
i | REF 4) NOP ANSWERED. PLEASE ADVISE. i
SECRET '
l “ BT :
3 "

Dei STED

| SECRET RESIE



cret

Lien Pitted tay

__DOGUMENT, TRANSFER AND. CROSS “REFERENCE

"Weitcr oF cocewisr ERAS NT. s0eT IF TeaTION

Troe:
NEGUTIAT LNG WITH. PORTUGUESE AQUUT “SENDING
ASSISTANCE (TO DISSHOLNT MERCENARY MAJOR JEAN
SCHRAMMES

ACLUPLUBRAHSAZP R 6708293294

SECRET ita



ee RS ERR E SE:

SECRET;
(hee Tiset toy

WICKS» ALISTAIR . ne
“'201=801702 - 007-009-011

SEX m 008 ? ‘ BRUS-~09865

: 13° AUG “67

Cin? EB oe -07301
occ 7

RE SUMMARY OF ‘TWO PLANS FOR over tinow GF
CONGOLESE GOVERNMENT.

OELACL ® 6708254987

FILE IN 203-£2174.2

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

Att eee eorteeen. SECRET e



SECRET,

_ 201-346685.
SRUS-o9868
2} auc 67

RE MERCENARY PLANS To OVERTHAGW concovese
GOVERNMENT

OkLact R 6708255679

FILE IN 201-2224

SECRET



Arlays[ee ~ pido oR HLEY 7

2 CUNssie ED MESSAGE: ft _tori copies

wy oat ; : in SLONDON; "Wes THERE OW: 13 gut
C4 sia seaveurLy Leer LONDOW.. FulciI0% iN LOUDON DESCRIBED
AS Lia ison WITH AUTAIR-OF LONDOW AND TO ARRANSE MERCENARY
FLIGHT To ‘conco. HOWEVER, THESE OPERATIONS HAYE “VIRTUALLY
CEASED” AND Are TRANS AFRICA NOW APPEARS TO RELY SOLEL ¥——~

dee we ON. AIRLIFT ING PETROL FRem FRANCISTOWN, 20TS¥AN. TO

ZAMBIA USING COMPANY'S Tyo FRANC ISTOWM-REG ISTERI
SECRET



ARUSSELS NINE: XONTHS \GO" AND CURRENTLY ‘EMPLovED | ‘AS SALES
‘INSPECTOR BY ETS FOURCROY SA, 119 RUE STEYIS,: BRUSSELS, “A WHOLESALE

- LIQUOR DISTRIBUTOR. : a
2, WIGEAR. LAST SAW LATZ CIRCA 10 JUNE. SAYS LATZ LEFT KINSHASA oes

AUGUST 66 (LNGOLD TRAFFIC AT TIME CONFIRMS THIS) PASSED THROUGH
BRUSSELS ON: WAY: VISIT FAMILY LONDON; THEN VISITED BROTHER COTE
D'AZUR FRANCE, -LATZ SETTLED BRUSSELS FALL 66 WITH FOURCROY AND HAS

“NOT TRAVELED AFRICA SINCE,
3. WIGEAR NOTED. LATZ MAINTAINS CONTACT WITH ALASTAIR WICKES,

WHO WIGEAR BELIEVES STILL EMPLOYED BY RHODE:
TRAVELS, SALISBURY-LONDON, DES stusszony
uneKes! WES?

ut inane a END .OF MESSAGE

ae Se he

eee
E/BNL/B Become 6 /, Looe.
AF/5 pee
E/BC/UK /-f.,. ia 2 fly

coupimarna orrietss.

asian 6inean : | SECRET

REPROGUCTION GY OTHE THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITED,



f

one 3 MARCH 11967 SECARO!

RE PORTED FOLLOWING :ABOUT. HIS- HEETING WITH: WISTATICZ 7
: pas SECAROB/1 TRIED: UssuccESSFULLY TO GET WISTATIC/Y TO:

cus ON: WHAT GDRC WAS GOING TO GIVE KIN: For PHASING our THE
COMMAS ¥D0 AND FOR RECRUITING NEW MZN IN ENGLAND. BASED on

5
VISTATIC/ 4° S$ ATTITUDE THAT SECAROB/{ WAS SOMETHING OF A cap
OR BRINGING -UP MGNEY MATTERS, SECAROB/1 TOLD WISTATIC/) HE
HAD OKO INTENTION OF PHASING OUT 5 COMMANDO UNLESS THIS FOL-
“LOWED UP WITH RECRUITHENT OF 488 MEN FROM ENGLAND WITH”

VENTUAL“EXPANSLO{t THIS FORCE TO 820 MEN, MOST OF WHOM WOULD .
ARTISANS AND PROFESSICNAL MENS AND FINALLY SECAROD/1 To BE
SULCWED To DEVELOP ToURISE ME EASTERN CONGO. ASA RESULT
Sf THIS CONVERSATION SECAROB/1 STATED THAT HE NOW HAS. RESERVA-
TICKS ABOUT BEING Ak MAN FoR THE = COMMANDO BECAUSE HE HASB

6 ASSURANCE THAT THE GDRC WILL PER! Him TO CARRY OUT THE

TIMER ASPECTS OF. THIS. PROGRANS

vA) Hag. EETING WITH: HASLANGER AND



ie art i
6K wSuRsa o8sa
Thera THAT, wOBUT

SUT IN? Livan? oe THE PHaSE-OUT OF THE 5 COMRANDO DUE -TO

STVILLE,: WISTATIC/1 REPLIED
x :
ARE YOU? wE DON’T

THERE (ASSURE WISTATIC* HIMSELF AND H

~ CAUTIONED’ SECAROB/1 agaist Taxing PETERS: Too LIGHTLY.) -

. WISTATIC/1 COMPLAINED TO SECAROB/1 ‘ABOUT SEZCAROB/}
NOT. HAVING GIVEN HIM A LETTER OF RECCHMENDATION BACK IN
"SEPTEMBER 1966. WISTATIC/! SaID ME HAD INTENDED. USE LETTER
ALGNG WITH OTHERS TO PREVENT HIS REMOVAL AND THAT oF
GENERAL DELPERDANGE FROM THE CONGO BY THE BELGIAN ARMY.

SECAROB/! CONCLUDED HIS DISCUSSION OF WISTATIC/1 WITH THE
COMMENT THAT WISTATIC/1 KNOWS THE CONGO AS FEW MEN DO AND
THAT HE IS a SENSITIVE #AN Y!THOUT COURAGE.



5 S-KINSHASA essa SE CRE T nse
ae CONCERN INa THE oAU REETING In SEPTEABER, SECAROB/1
a EMPHASIZED THAT moby 8 Toub Ie THAT IT HIS INTENTION To
ae ‘GET PERMANENT HEADGUARTERS oF oau TRANSFERRED: To THE |
: congo. FURTHER THE Gore WISHES To ‘BE a STRONG » MILITARY
ft CER EN CENTRAL. AFRICA, WITH Tits. COMBINATION” noBuTU
OPES THAT’ THE- 60RG, VILL BE THE LEADING POVER IN CENTRAL
| SERICAAND POSSIBLY: IW. ALL “OF AFRICAS :
© 3.0 WHILE: COMPIRSRHG-MIS WILLINGNESS 70 DISBAND THE 5 ComManD
SECAROB/1- ENOT LOWALLY ToL.
HASLANGER. THat Hap GREAT RESPECT FoR LNKARP. AND worncts
dE-WAS OUR MAN ‘AND ‘vouLd BE Evin: Lo vat To: LNKARP. wittcH: aE:
BELIEVES MyST EXERCISE HORE LINPLUENBS In AFRICAS LNHARP HAS He
AL@AYS BEER Far TO HIM, AND Tut ¥vITHOUT WOFACT THE 5
COMMANDO could REVER, HAVE DOxE ITs JOB, PRIOR TO LEAVING
HASLANGER"’S HOME SECAROB/1 LEARNED THAT: HASLANGIA rou
BE LEAVING THE CONGO &ROUND AUGUST 1967. SECAROB/1 Stare
THAT IF GUTHMAN AND HASLANGER WERE TO LEAVE THE congo

ASAE SEM ene ISHED

HE WOULD BE RELUCTANT TAKE ON KIS NEY JOB SINCE PERSONAL
REL Meeaieaine BEAK A GREAT, DEAL To ett AND WERE aati’

ik t o"PLEMENTING HIS NEW PROGRAM, ‘



Fask @ NiNSWASA 0864°$-E CET sr ey
: . ongencey “STATED THAT HE GOTES LONDON ABOUT

ay ra
Az HARCH TO “CHECK ‘ON THE Monte DEAL. HE SUSSESTED LuianP ©
SIGHT WANT. HIM TO GO ‘To ver ARD ‘TWAT HE vouLd 00. 50. AF
TO REPORT...

LNHARP DESIRED Pa iE Not ENCOURAGED ‘BUT. TOL!
PULL INFO THIS SUBJECT.» (sec Br HAD. PREVIOUSLY REPORTED :

iat, HE Hab ECELVED a LETTER FON.
THAT 3oB VaTLABLE with 6000 Pay “AND! cowre

LETTER
TIONS. Ss CAROB/:A ‘BELIEVES 908
(Fwy STERLING, OF Lobe | ANGE DESERT rou FARE, as Li CE

.
‘SOUTH AFRIGA ‘ MARCH.
Siew els
at : i

CERN YEREN, HE -KNOUS. That :



“BOs

IN RECENT SECAROB/I RFPORTING

B, Hi

Pu

“AT NEXT REGULAR MEETING ON W

WOU

AND

OF P:

ON PRETOR iA REVSHASA *

KINSHASAL9412 (IY 35352} +e
RS ] : é

B, SALISBURY 7305 (Zs

}, HGS NOTES THAT NAME

QUIT PLOTTING, DURING SUMMZR

PRINCIPALS INVOLVED, REFERENCE

INVES BE INVOLVED GN WiQUiT.

OWEVER, SUG

re TING, WOULD APPRECIATE PRE TORLA STATION DEBRIEF SECAROB/!

LD BE APPROPRIATE FOR LOND

SOLICIT THEIR ASSISTANCE IN

RS

we basiee drrieta

REPAOCUCTION AY OTHER Vnas tat; S OFFICE US ea eniatEe



Goesrsoy Co ecruan ww

i
1
| “DIRECTOR 34537 AND 38458,
i

Se wou:

WOULD APPRECIATE Ladle! STATION: Pouci DETAILED

DEsREFIG REPORT PEET TRIP_AND AS CONTACTS with wiauit/ GROUP,

“wou

ALSO APPRECIATE PRETORIA STATION POUCH. DETAILED REPORT

|
|

: OF SECAROB; ‘lL RECENT TRP,

ND OF MESSAGE” : ;

lela sll Bey i ae

SAB PROM WAN

Eacsy!

Ait PRE TDR oe

v
'

i ary a i es ee
= : SECRET. pe

 TEPROGQCTION BY OTMET THAN THE IKEUIMG OFFICE Is PROM

a a ee es ee crea

sath



OF DOCUMENT

4S UHENT. TRA

SECKEL
(nee titled tn

ISFER AND-CROSS REFER:

~suavecr,

CE RO. -

yp Orieetas ce souact Doe

: ieee nik ee

WICKS,

bond
199-8t
M729.

Far sii

ACLAzP

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

*
201-8or

VISET NOW OFF
C

201=346695,
QELA= 943405
18 -NUV 66
PL. jos

SUBS SEVEKAL TIMES UURING HES

PAYROLL AND. LIVING at

KENHALL ST, LONUUN, We 1 TEL HUN

SECAROB/1 ‘vOES NOT HAVE Wicd REGARD

6S. MILITARY CAPABILITY.

R 6707191852 |

SECRET

ay


i
i
-
1
i

ce soci errata.”

,of Station, Pretoria

‘iy guaiies9 esx
On Ko noo

Ate iea ds ‘Division a

nites

Reference: ‘AGPA - 2084, 9 August 1966
Action Required: ‘For Your Information

WOACRE «: for, hands rttiae analysis
herewith for: your iatordation,

Attachment;
As stated above

Distribution:
Orig. & 2 - COS, Kinshasa(y,att. ~
1 - COS; Pretoria (y/att.)

~-Jerry-O, ‘MEDLISH

=f S.

ee L_ooteber. eee.

2 AF/5

wee ory

201801702

1 AF/2
i -TSD/BAB

TST 83 ct esences conten



REF. WICKS TOLD. SECAROB/1 HE “RETURNING |

“qLSO REPEATED RUNOR” HEARD. IN SALISBURY THAT UNIDENTIFIED AMERICANS:
‘RECRUITING “MERCENARIES IN. SALISBURY FOR: PURPOSES OF COUP 10 REPLACE
MOBUTU WITH BOBOZO. i

SECRET SECRET

' at : dol - gor02
: KY Sct Ob



12 October’ 1966

TSD/BAB MEMO #226-66

MEMORANDUM. FOR: ° Chief, aF/5
“ATTENTION. ©:

Alastair™ Wicks

SO REFERENCE 0°: aes meno dated 29 dug.-"1996

Ee 2 arias oe ‘Attaghea here:

+ ; sae report on subject as re rence. ‘The i
: : report was prepared by of this office.

Any conments, or-criticism would be appreciated. ~

2, The data supplied is insufficient for further
psychological: assessment. If contact reports and personal
observations of subject's manner and behavior become
available, we could produce a more precise -assessaent

oriented to subject's performance in‘ intelligence
activities:

Millie (Amr

William C. GOSWOOD (P)
Chief, TSD/BAB

Attachments:
Report &
h.w. sample



Handwriting Assessment Report *
“Alastair Wicks AF

The ‘writer seems to be a very clever individual of a high
intellectual’ level’ who‘ handles. his ‘affairs in a independent
manner, | Endowed ‘with a good intelligence, he is Well educated
and-cultured, ‘He has- rot ‘only: absorbed but, also; assimilated
the material he has: réad-and: studiéd and utilizes’ it in a pur-
oséft ing is cleat, “logical and.versatile.”
e e well ‘trained and differentiated,
» they support his: practiéal talents and
ly..““He. discards’ superfluous: matters,and,

is thi

joulth’ well, developed: analyzing and synthesizing faculties, He
“4s quite intuitive and: senses. instinctively the implications of

happenings around him,

He is an alert and astute observer. of. small-détails cthich
he relates correctly to their larger aspects, Being quite re-

sourceful, he combines imagication with sober matter-of-factness.

He follows prescribed rules and regulations when absolutely
Necessary ard, whenever possible, exercises his mental indepen-
‘dence. He forms his own opinion and judgment and keeps his own
ounsel in making decisions, “He. may accept somebody else's
suggestions that he considers suitable for his purposes but he
is:not actually influenced by others, At times, he may deliber-
ately make somebody feel as if he is seeking his advice and
following it, but, in realicy, he does what he considers best.
He is very critical and-evaluates by high standaids, He can be

very outspoken in his critiéism or he can cautiously withhold it

depending-on hisappraisal of the.circumstances, His interests
cover small items ‘of information to large size projects and
operations, While he notices evesything that is going on, he

gility -

can’ concentrate’ on his work.’ When required, he can switch quickly

from one task.to another. His memory. functions well and he can
reproduce facts easily,

tpi te :
sf i .



. The writer.has administrative ability on a supervisoty level.
Within, a military-setup,:he could. take orders as well as ‘issue
them, although Ke prefers the latter. - He can be systematic and:
methodical in his’ approach...He can work-out ‘a blueprint.ofan
‘intricate undertaking and:’supervise’ its proper execution. He will
quickly and easily adapt to fluctuations ina situation and change
his tactics accordingly, 7 eeceai ‘ s ee

nipulating numbers, and he can think in’
$.. “Apparently, he is. quite interested
how: to ‘get the best possible :

iclal transaction.” - eaters atti

‘facility, in expressing himself orally
make.his points: palatable arid can ‘be quite
arguments. Also; he can formulate ‘his ideas
if ferent ways; di ding.'on with.whom he is |
a He. ‘should have "talent for’ learning foreign: languages.
He isa gifted person who: will exploit-his talents in-line with
the demands that are put -before him. Hé-4180 seems to have
physical training and skills. He has a natural feeling for
form, ‘sound and color. He: probably has developed artistic
appreciation’ and may have an artistic hobby, possibly music.

Emotionally, th? writer is complex but fairly well balanced,
Innately impressionable and’sensitive, he has hardened himself
—in-the-ccurse of his life in‘ order to be less vulnerable, He
has his feelings and impulsés under fairly good control and avoids
‘being carried: away by them, In his private life, though, he may
tend to be somewhat éxcitable and irritable. He is self-centered
and most interested in his personal advantage. This is a trait
that he tries. to cover up by beiiig smooth and pleasing in his
dealings with people. -He possesses natural psychological under-
standing-and can be very, diplomatic. He manages to appear out-
going and social while basically .he is quite reserved and detached,
He seems to avoid emotional involvements in order to preserve his
objectivity, debviastenstarait tesadlt :



a3

Hig appearance ‘is poiséa and gophisticated, and he knows
how to handle. himself under different conditions, Being an
ophisticated™individual, he has developed his
sophy and ‘code of ethics by which he lives.» He does
aut.doing things that would-not

oe, is-very broad@ninded about

himself and othérs, -arid he jetests pettyness, even in pee ee
doing. The: purpose justi:
‘ftransaétion takes place oi

Ss spaceabiy an. misialiy ‘talented person’ who
fferent. types. of positions. - He could be a
“busin 8 ‘executive, a politician, an’ intelli-
gence’ ‘agent’ or -he: Gould ‘be a-diplomat. “He would -not ‘be suitable
for any kind of routine work;. bit he is well qualified for
mentally ‘challenging assignments--the more challenging the better,
‘He is.a diligent: worker who-is’ somewhat vain in showing off his
competence, He likes to demonstrate. how successfully he can
carry out.a complicated and delicate job. When he is willing

to accept.an assignment, one.can expect’ a high quality. of work
performance, but anybody who would expect loyalty from him would
probably be disappointed,

NBR RAR IRR

RU Ne SENN

TSH/s£
+ October 3, 1966



i:
1
|
i
I

29: August 196°

+. Téchaleai Services Division
Behavioral Activities Branch

: Request for Psychological ai

singat of the wetter. -Unlertuaately,

the original “of thts letter is dot svallabic. Hopefully tie quality
of-the attached copy will.be adequate for your purposes.

i 2. If any further information se required, pleaze contact

Africa/5, Room 7¢l8, exteasion 5032.

Acting Chief, Africa/S



SES ag A2td ~ Be&s

ef as Wea Phan 8 bane Be boy ood Boole fos 7
Oy S64 “fins, Wis ne tlle, whl, favfomed ny noe pebsie.,

A intboned fe Sakithing we Lp dad wh TD
Ae Seay CF py aes oS nail

pr fe beg Spb af

flow aS Gch pet fm thn bnon dope, o BLL, the
Pes Mas yor ayolh, toed Mann 5 Le ves Sh ma ene
fing iw hae Pa le he Oe Qe
pre tbl oth Lede ot ee oe FO Dey — a,
worl cries Me ute 6" seus he Wb MSS had beer Load

Loans Eval pve re wey antl al Mel bey, woth Ce ©

bres ye soe ao bd y (asaya ven, pled hor he he “y

At A a A rae sh dnt
ey fees)
i

Peter atari ate ii Vip alo oO med
(Ao Gaee Arte lens Fa fe sf el Oe Be aol he

sre bscdt po obo i: acl JS (haan, 920 weforwd on



fel J wnt abn Lee how ob).
ackiar. df iteszt 2 y
by Pd etnies ie tt E
ASME Ss set dpall, oe ee pease et es
“Abt teen, oe Lut 7 pie at ae S have ee Kye!

w

“hes vers me feel Cs a Geile, ga nics

Kb Gall wt arbalhe, pu agers Y & Ce Kh ow

pod. . fF porns pele: Mar yh 87 Loe Kaew er Snd |

deel til Pere eee et oe Aiute reed Ay EY ee
ee Ny bE A pe oil yh for 6 oe”

Sythe bape oe LA eet, hese Kj

Curnthe So Mt
WN
foe Sf onl) eae ds

Sealy Ley ive Son bok. wed haynes B Sue

$.

pace ve

ES AT peg He Crete 2 Can fhe Ye

pPoiwkad Pe low iu


(setaet 113582

fen Ova Be Aine a)
Chaaeery Toorak Teel FEL. avo FLED MESSASE yorat

oxsteoy Oi:

forrty breecto

|___srusseis
‘zaper. wrauit SecaRoS SNOTH

iREF DIRECTOR 26713

1. AT dt -ausUST MEETING, SMOTH CONFIRMED THEY HAD HAD INDIRECT. ~

CONTACT WITH HICKS IN PAST, BUT THAT HE YAS UNYITTLNG SOURCE.

CONTACT HAN PRESENTLY UIAVATLABLES UT THEY PLAN PUT HIM BACK IN

TOUCH WITH WICKS A30UT 17 AUSUST, oe HOPE HE CAN SLICIT LUFORGA~

TION AS TO WICKS’ FUTURE PLANS, ETC.

26° MEANVHILE _SMOTH MAVE ASKED SPECIAL BRANCH (DIRECTLY,

BUT TO DATS THEY HAVE NOT

NOT THROUGH JAGUAR) TO COVER. WIC!
WE URGED THEM TO FeLLOY up RETURN ADDRESS” ON LETTER,
DOOR occur rz D Y FEMALE STATION

LOCATED HIM.

OFFERING MAKE AVAILABLE” FLAT NEXT
1° PROBLEM: 1S PRESUMPTION WICKS.

PERSONNEL “AS OP IF DESIRED. 0:
USK. PassPoRT, 14 WRICH CASE ImsLgRaT Lot WILL HAVE

No RECORD HIS ENTRY OR [TENDED sITRESS. HAVE ADDRESSEES ANY
Tap- P00 FO

SICKS TRAVELLING?
youd FEE,

3. WITHOUT TIDICATING ANY EDGE FUTURE PLANNING te ’
7 SECRET
LATED ALCS AT POSSIBILITY SECARO3/1

TRAVELLED 0”

I
CLUE AS TO DOCUMENTATION ON WHIC!

REFLECTS ‘REF, YE SPECUI



COREL

PAGE 2 Lonpod 5123 S E c R E t

Comes PONDENCE ITH vicKs, AND uns ‘nievois INTERESTED “FIND
VILL HAVEWG DIFFICULTY OBTAINING
OULD: HE “Visit,

Pual. ISHER FOR. ROOK.” BELIEVE

SHOTH “SUPPORT “FOR woract contact WITH ‘SECAROR/I

"7, COVERINS sien :
vas VILL: ADVISE SEPARATELY RE EMERGENCY cour act instRUct Ions

“FOR SECAROB/1.
SECRET
8T



i (en ;

ASS1FIEO MESSAGE _T_.

yorat comics.

* REPROOUCTI DN PRowTd ITED’ H

Osic;

“pasta

“BRUSSELS '
WIQUIT SECAROB | byte 4
REF: ca. Pretorial | (a BIDE

DIRECTOR 2eaie% otis

38.
WILL. CO!
L SECRET

a

pec. HIER SEE

wick s :

Dol- yo1902

uUAnece

“Reot- B4 6689 : aes



‘BRUSSELS
ziser WIQUIT SECARO
REF A. DIRECTOR 26716 : : ee
3B. LONDON’ Sag2 Cee 45, 3t0y{ we MICROFILMED

etr 21906 :

Cc. KINSHASA 7092 at
GN praat i
1. HAVE DISCUSSED WICKS PRESE: WCE LONDON WITH SMOTH- AND

DESY

CRO. ser,

RESUESTED THEM ATTEMPT COVER HIS ACTIVITIES HERE .ON BASIS COMMENTS
REF Cy PLEASE NOTE FER REF B S4OTH HAVE BELATEDLY CONFIRMED
HIS INVOLVEMENT FROM SOURCE IN ENTIRELY DIFFERENT QUARTER.

2. “SMESPY HAS ACKNOWLEDGED UNOFFICIALLY THat /WgoTH HAS
HAD CONTACT WITH WICKS IN PasT AND IS NOW DEBATING WHETHER
APPROACH vam ON. FRIENDLY BASIS STEMMING FROM PREVIOUS CONTACT

“OR ASK. Jacuar ATTEMPT. COVER HIM. FROM DISTANCE. MEETING. 11 AUGUST

“1139, MOURS ‘TO DISCUSS. FURTHER AND TRY HELP THEM DECIDE. WOULD
APPRECIATE’ ANY FURTHER TIDSITS PASSABLE AT THAT TIME.

SECRET
8T

pe 0 Goze A.
[3- Bel- BYEES ; /0 Qreegetels PLE



s
Nor Dre Ose
cunssuew TO Fee me
neath te fit 40

Fag as
oesteoy

RISE LVED,

TASUS Lonsou wy

OM FULL SALARY AND CCUP Ov

D DOWN. RETURNED FRON PUS

eeb-cafeit- CL
pee. AbBE. S06, ¢3/5¢0 FY SPE

7P606

i dICKS.



7? ses Tse 063928

ted Tou Sails

: SECRET 4 Logue sD srfcersatioy OV eared : :
CUSi DE CONGO) LSPECHHYS THOSE oe KO tia
or WASH 8/C OTS: HQS SIGCEY-NOT AUTZORIZRD
AUTOMATICALLY RELAY TEIS
i MSG °T0 * NOR
H FORWARD FORM 12 IF RELAY
REQUIRED.

Slats WIE rs



SECRET

TS UPPER CASE

REQUEST FOR GREEN LiST
NAMF CHECKN? 1739.

‘Alastair WICKS
2. MASTS, WaRTANT SHULT

CHIEF, F1/0

ORIGINATING. OFFICER

“To

3. DATE and

Fy lnc

oFFice vesicvaton ~ AF/B.°

eco, surtoinc 70-18
Exrenstow ee 5032

SL CITIZENS
?Rhodesion, South ‘African, British”

3. PRESEAT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION
‘Mercenary in the. Congo

1 Finst THG: SuBMITTED
Oe DITIONAL: DATA

Clink cicen FOR conser
38, “INTEREST. In suBJECT -(CHECK ONE?
“Gh tbeidnsce. ov cé activity

3: opeRaTionat cteaRance

OTHER

F"6-OCCUPATIGRAL- SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION >

“Teas acTIVITIES INCLUDING WILITARY. SERVIC :
ACTIVITY 7 “er ee

WoaTes

Location

ug 64-present |

Mercenary Congo o: °

NEEDED

8. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION) — ADD EXTRA SHEETS WEN

TWweTaTT (eves) Taairy Gracey Corner)

‘OS DESCRIPTION (aticury

10. SPOUSE (IF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)

Ti. OTHER MEMBERS OF IV EOIATE FAMILY AND ASSOCIATES

12.

INFORMATION REQUIRED (OEFINE SPECIFICALLY. GENCRAL TERMS SUCH AS. OEROGATeR:* MAY RESULT Im A SEARCH THAT DUES
NOT FULLY MEET REQUIREMENTS.

Any.

< . . INSERT. CARBON; FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.
INS TRUC TIONS: SEND BOTH SHEETS TO Ft/D. SEE.CS! 10-7

SO! une

SECRET



| seheancuit is aTTAED. nEeETO.,

TED IDENTIFICATION PSCV IDED-IW: THE: RECUEST.-F1/0.1S, UNABLE” TO
THERE.“IS INF COwAT Ge. ABDUT.THE "SUBJECT: OF MOT: -
FAfp Has .wO: PERTI INFORMATICA Ge SUBJECT.“ 1F InFCewATION ABOUT. THE
SUBJECT: APPEARS AT A LATER DATE," IF WILL BE REPORTED TO: YOU AS IT BECOMES
AVAILABLE> a : ee

MTA THE, UU

THE SUBJECT OF TIS REQUEST ,1S-APPARERTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FLOWING:

NOTE TO THE CRIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT 15 80 LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHELT, MITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION
MOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/D. : -

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TC F1/O THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO
LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TG DEMAND 4 CONTINUING NAME CHECK. PLEASE 00 NOT TIE UP FI/D*S
FACILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

] see bossice on susiéer! in F1/9: 21sG24rvic FILES. ‘Reviewed by you 27 Jul 66.

To: Fu/0

NAME
CEFICE DESIGNATOR
ROOM, BUILDING
EXTENSICW

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST
SECRET :



200900000
EDEL EEEL EDD



TE. DIRECTOR, BRUSSELS,

Heomwrreto4s
V5.n660057044

FROM SALISBURY WITH PROPOSITION

sa 18 pane

2,009 ‘POUXDS FOR SIX MONTH CONTRACT, ETC. TASK

WOULD BE COCRSIATION OF MILITATY, EFFORT IN KATANGA AGAINST REACTION
BY ANC. RA NOaRE STALLED AWAITING ARRIVAL MiGHELL
WITH REF GUIDANCE. :
: POSTPONF. COUP ¥

~ Be WEEKS EL IL 27 JULY TO

SENARIES SO AS ELIMINATE NECESSITY

ED KENTUCKY HOTEL SALISSURY. PETERS

LIANCE ON

AD Clee POLERS Panileai aT ING [2 2. ciSh..

SEGISTERED Park b.
SEL IBERA STLONS: ON-AD HOC SSIS,

EVENING 14 JULY, STATED THIS

RMED HIS UNDERSTAND POSITION AND HE WILL NOT acccPT
z
SONAL LOYALTY TO PUGH PARAMOUNT

PROPOSITION. POINTED OUT

RIS FINANCIAL POSITION HAS
EQ SOME ASSISTANCE. HOARE



ED 12 GULY, BIEKS Ae wii
15° SLY AND DEPART gaw Sy PORT 16 “JULY WITH
~SCHANHESS URS ST. i.

Uy” KINSHASA: cout “SUGGEST

OR HE COULD COTO NOduTY OW ovN-IHITtATIVE,

EN VIEW THEIR”

MANDO “AT: O¥

DISLOYALTY, P= » PAYMENTS TO Fist Prous

» MURDER CF VAN
SLING OF PT 204T, ETC. THIS OTSBANDMENT

OPPENS xD Suze

aT PLOT.
S COMMANDO AND POSSIBLY 6 COmr. NDO WITH SEW

GLO 09 THIS AND ATTEND

WITH Oau

ARINZ UNIT COULD AE SECRUITEO.
ALUSA WILL REVCLT IN RETALISTiON FOR KimMaa°
also,”

wanes
wid
apr nar ener PEON
rere

TEVES UMNK FUNDS DEPOSITED



Hz TALAED TO

yICKS PROPOSITION

ay PREVIOUS| sia. TuANED Dow
WICKS SKID PETERS MaS PULLED OUT AND IS i.

SALTSBURY« TARSET |
NT RECRUITS —

‘s1auREs INVOLVED» OR pécaee THVOLVEREM

eT HK AFRICA a D RHODESIA.
OF Gr OFFICIAL’ PARTICIPATION

soversienis BEINS RANDLED BY

PARTIC PATIO

SECURITY SERVITES AS 1igECatzD. PRO
PROTE eT LOS. Uiclibe AS SOURCE SINCE HIS POSITION

yTngsT
SOUTH AFRICA nost TENUOUS.

LACKING. us:

AS UsKe CIT

9, PRETORIA

SPeHCHN tent
eaeraa|
Bs Tr @Hequests gn to express to Hoare dees appreciation for
ng and forwards a cumber of renwons for ODYOKE 1)
Congo fr passage to Hoare.

of a gnified and stable

SEGRE



~

Wicks, ALASTAIR
201-801-702 .
Sex, pce 7

P2

i acc ?

: RAN CRIETH COPPARCE RHO

; OM. FIFTH CCHMANOL IN DEC O50.
CRE ALLEGED PLANS FOR CUUP Lect Al EY FCRMER
CONGOLESE PRIPE MINISTER MUTSE TSHOMBE
TAVOLVING FIFTH CGAMANDU MERCENARIES ©

uw eocs2zi054

ACEACBAZPANSGABCEL

FILE IN 201-2027.

LE THiS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

in



Bie


TOLD HIM

S ANY BI WE Had SENT Th: 50, HE. out. Pass THEN ‘To acs. .

Wad xo, SUCH BY, BUT RECALLED THaT PRESS HAD CaRRtéD,

CONSIDERABLE 1h70.0N.YOARE Bacay ae WHICH WIGHT BE AVAILABLE

AT XUBARK KEADGUARTERS.- AS for GICKS, WE UNDERSTOOD HE RHODESIAN,

BUT HaD NO TFC GTHER THAW FACT HE TAVCLVED IN AIR LIFT OF NERCENARIES.
2. VISITOR SAID HE PROCEEDING  DiRsal AND MIGHT CONTACT: HOARE

WHILE: THERE.

SECR

ces adeg ada Leopbyovinte 24 Fig acer Bx atrcyazL KOdQE ALISTER

ages WY ast hq “~ By 1Kg HORE KDA RROQESTAN eae

obgeatl

28 ee oe
2 O1~ 3% 6ES~

SECRET

WFAA RIAN on Ciga Tiron tin eS eres



LZ ») i
YTS BASISS THIS 08 PAST S75! cH I PORTED
STID BY: KUSARY LEOP
O23 TERS OF PAY

3 INTENDID QUIT O# 31 DIC, tp) Braz:
C4 HE 42225 TOD. Act!
ESS ADVISZO

M10 PAY BET 7 eee

5 SANUARY 1965. U

$8,562 LESS $159 AS TOTAL 2
2 PEN TO REVIT: . UE

=D TO FLELISi=RS BY 31

wa

EIS 50CX-UHICE Eust 32 Sis:

IT UEL-ioT INVOLVE CON3S FOLITICS AED I VILL KOT RAVE

5 389 PRILIGIMARY

TO SLY 230UT AkvOIS?. U.
UELINE AID. PROGRESS CF-SCOK LY A36UT THRES VEINS TO BE . eat
2S O3GzCTo

REVIEU PRIOR nae)

TSE DOES NST ELT IN7O FINAL sueis t

UIRENS TOTAL RE-URITZ. UE VILL DS 7

SCRIPT.

RENE

4
Aeneues



fosutu ‘ES! 5 Ste vidxs, Pours:
KO Pet! HOSUTU YAS VERY DESY. PoUES TOLD S THAT 1

U REGARDED TiTIR

‘OTHINS. HE ADVISSD THAT BOTH +
LUNCKION APTER EOBUTU HAD TAKEN OVER AS SCSO3Y, . YICKES vas
B70 SISN Bl CaoEn
& 303. VAS —

= RELARID. ON Si3u20T. coup et PosstsL wave pine Tau
83 rie eo) se? “2568, IF NOT HZ CERTAINLY WAS RECONSIDIAD

RIS VIDTPOLNT. .
S. SIS NOT INTERTSID IN RETURALS 70 CONSO AT THIS THZ.
$2 BSEs NoT =

DID NOT SusezsT TEAT 35 DO SC_ BUT at SF:



GREAT SERVICES THAT XIBARK
FEAT TEIS UaS A PECULIARITY OF KODUTUTS CHARACTERS : i
S ONS i

E Bz

ACCEPTING SOE.

9. $ DOTS NOT AT ALL EXCLEDT POSSISILITY TSuOIS!

TUS HIVISTERS. HE SAID THAT NCDUT BEd

AS TO XREMVIDU, S FEELS THAT HE
sOSUTU-EVSit

1 OF Oe.

+ £2VICE AND GUIDANCE. FR

ALS) EIGHT AT A LAT

USH EE. APPEARS 10,22, FE < :
U, TSHOSSE AND EASAVLDS COULD BS G65 FOR THE:

CONB IMATION. OF -EO2 G71
COnsO.”
15. S*S S33

2 ATTACK OF WALARIA. . :
7 i





i
i


es! oF ne somiis ‘pe ATV, |

a PAAGAL, THIS-15 AN ALBERTVILLE. SITUATION reat PREPARED AT. mobo wos toca: q
- 28° SEPTEERN 1965 +BY. CAS.

FROM, SENOERA TO LuLIMes (SOURCER
SVE IN Sete ica SERCRAET HAVE HAD! THE ORLY:
T WEI THE. FLFR TH CoC “SIBLE 66 StP1)

in eT

Te CONWLESE SNRISHCE PILETS UasERveD 45)


cD a



f waits AND TODROP summer Learttts. “rin, 1 ‘tow Ries KS “HAY

} ATTACKING Force ‘oR me WHEREABOUTS or THE “pereno ina an m
(sources ano ENE). peony at * :

Se ON €7: SEPT 1965 TWO SALT CITIZENS WERE ‘AsRESTED AT THE HOTEL
DULAC, IN ALBERTVILLE. THIS HOTEL SERVES AS THE PRINCIPAL BILLET. .
FOR THE EUROPEAN ADVISORS TO THE ANC IN ALBERTVILLE. | THE SOMALIS.“'s
PAPERS WERE FOUND 10 BE IN OROER AND THEY WILL PROBABLY BE z E
RELEASED ON 28 sePTy ” ‘ e *

Be. ON.27 SEPT 1985, THE OPS ao ADVANCED MeAacquanrens) PLANS
To MOVE TO SENDERA AT THIS SAME TIME THE NINTH CoMMAniog ‘BATTAL L0RaN-
1S°TO MOVE FROM LULINGA To MAKUIGU AND KATSHOKA, 10 Days LATER :



come Lad

© YOULD PERMIT VERIFICA-

iv ¥6S T1HE TC GET CH
2 AOCEPTED NEW DEAL,

CAROB-1/94-634-) (92757

-E MAZUTIS



a 3 Eq27 :
EMMEDIATE::DIR INFO-LEOP cme; }

RETURNS: : rs
“2 MasoR wicies Dur (_jaeez, 27-aioust witli REPORT HIS LEOP -

HISSICN CORCERNING PAY QOSOLVE (AS RCVDD. SI INTENDS REPORT THIS

WORD. TO TROOPS IMMEDIATELY TEREAFTER. VILL ADVISE. IMMEDIATE Si |

AND TROOP REACTION, i ;

SECRET ;

CFN.¢268 52595 SECAROB-I $1 ¥AZUTIS 11002 27 SI NO FINAL GUTHHAR a

MAJOR WICKES ALAV 14@@Z 27 LECP OOSOLVE aS PCVD st Sl
_ BT



CRE T Sei38az
PRIORITY. DIe- INFO pritbr
“SECARQB os :

Y CITE LEGP'0776 CLAMPRIGHT. ac

2
AICHES MELD MEETING vith NOBUO RE STH Combo:

PAY PROSLEM, AFTER-APRANGING: FOR LOAN FHON DIRECTOR RaTtoML BANK
MDELE, MOBUTU CALLED IN PAY. NASTER Bb MADE ARRANGEMENTS PAY SOE, ;
“UNSPECIFIED, PORTION OF OUTSTANDINS PAY IMMEDIATELY. vicxes THEN
vent To ‘BANK TO INSURE THAT TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO JOHANESBURG vas
MACE, Pru rans FELT THIS ONLY STOP Sa? MEASURE AND PROBLEM LIKELY ~
COME UP AGAIN IN & FEW WEEKS,

faa

2. WILLIAMS ALSO SAID THAT 82 MERCS KILLED SO FAR IN CONGO AND
oa &
GOVT ofbreatep PAY FAMILIES ONE MILLION BELGIAN FRANCS FOR@IACH

GEATY. ALTHOUGH CONGOLESE BUDGETED FCR DEATHS THEY
TOCNOT. SEL IEVvE : i

DERTH.RATE vouLD SE SO HIGH.

WICKES HAS PROEAELY. NOTIFIED HOARE CITECTLY.

|

Bare “Se WILLIAMS INFORMED HIS REP ALEV 26 AUG TO. NOTIFY KOARE, bese |
i

4. PLS PASS ABOVE To GUTHMAN, }

i

i





as sawed comes bene
TL USC ee © and ine Cosmruenes @ fametuaen of WenD Wp Ay mimo

SECRET wo rosuamy pasta -
furroa ou smwyace sar a KS no a wc 4 gma oH Of oy
ia/ pec ce EEE,

eras to meecal Dean af Gn Drees Bacce ENS cos cximene of can ang Lae. T=
——

ED

as _ ee





ab intaciye wet 4
gence Information Cabla-~

HOWEVER THAT NODCTU FREQUENTET-O





st

PLS 19 FUSE

i .
' :
i rn alee



STOP ‘SECRET, #
eri COMMANDC MERCENARIES

3 PROBLEM AND couep RESULT IN DIS@__
‘slit, coura

ONTINUL

BI FUNDING BE CONSICEREG
A WOPMABLE PAYMENT Sy

F

PIVOLVE Iroows/t
L PLTAMALLS TNVOLVED TUT foew TOTALLY
THE FIFIM Command IN CONGC, SOONER OR LATER

T HAVE TO RE Facen,

MIS DEVISED BY THE”









“PROBLEMS: AFFECTING Sth vide

Operations,
Northern Congo BOs e



enon

‘Bp gersesdvofitnse.
Sele stefsne-



Reet

i

8594 ¢ 5 70D
be. SECAR03 72, ($72) AND. BABY LEFT -FoR upeaw AFTEAKOOM 5 BAY,
STAYEMS aT NOTEL EVENENG 3 WAY AND: ARR

alia alae Ut ists)

YING DURBAN @oMAY.
HAS BEEW CALLING $/2°S HOTKER BUT NO ONE INCLUDING: HER MOTHER

w WHERE SHE WAS, SHE WELCOMED REF asp wit CALL’ WICKS FROM:
DURBAN,

2. FY0s ADVISE S71 THAT Sve Is DELIGHTED HE STAYING on.

SHE REALLY FEELS THAT FOR HIS OWN HAPPINESS HE “HUST SEE JOB THROUGH.
- SEGRET

SE



B. ‘EOP 85a my.

: SECAROB/ 1 6S) WAS “INFORMED THAT WIRE, AND: BABY: STAYING WITH

SK
Pua S$ 40st APPRECIATIVE. ARSED THAT WIFE BE TOLD HE DUE. TO
RETURN PROBA LY aroha “a BEGINNING JUNE FOR ONE MONTH Leave.

ON LEAVE $0 APRIL, TO cutact Ss WIFE In DURBAN,
KLL LEARN SHE IN PRET- AND WILL CONTACT KER WITHIN

REF a WICKS LEI
Eo * § expects wrcxs
NEXT SEVERAL DayYs,!

SECRET ee
0° irc 4, _ SEERET

$fe AS of 1$20, 7 WAY 65







RE a nee slit i ew - .cttnetabbmate mn:



to Kamina Base on 25 &°27
January, 1965 -



TRANSMITTAL MANIFEST.

= 1 N.0902163
oo] Chief of Stattoay Leopolavinle z ik -





wantin ate:



Isr)

SHIPPED TO ARUAS

ROISION.

> AND
REF
‘ ae eee .



‘Froe!” Leosolavilie :

SUBSECT: Not Mated

USARMA Document’ 06615

DaTH: 23 J: 'y 1965

SULIZCI:. “ICES, ¢Uster

CLASSLFICATION: conridential

FI Hot Listed FKOM: * Leopoléville

SURS-CT: Not listed

Puserm a

TRA A ep aoe Terie ae

AY Ftp



| WD geen



: aati 1 SH L ¢ z B EEK PREVIOUS

ERUISE EVERYTHING 1S
Doctor cours
~ SHOULP ARRIVE ABOUT 17 NovENDEX,

THIS AND ADVISES TREAT BASY-

2 NOT.CLEAR O FOLL pornt

/1"S BLOOD GROUP. “PLS

SAND G2ANT.

‘ICH LEOP CAN USE OR KILL.

E'GUTDATED BY "MORE RECENT
a,

ryASESRAPOESESEEES

‘ Berra ne oe Led ek



i " gecrevis Thar THE: BELGIANS ARE “vot axtrous FOR THE war To BE OvER

;_ |, TOO SOON AS THEY ARE BUILDING UP ANOTHER SPHERE OF INFLUENCE’ IN
Be ad |THE Coico vite DOZENS OF OFFICERS AND NEN: RUSHING HEADQUARTERS AND
: ; LOGISTICAL TERNS." :

PSECRET!

pig a SECRET

ag



fe
5 SEFORer wie Gets |
ace 4 (rma? tev, acecieaT m







4 (END OF MESSAGE)“ =



ts IN SECARG DIS

¢ TsHeMEz's 18 JULY. CABLE TO

> -STy THOUSAND “POLNDS®. AT
TOLD sEcakoe PROCEED WITH
RUST HAVE THE







THIRD EENCY





74 of sing cn
niag vhich wo set
portance, - catibaacaleidse vo
Ut ,ieyaltios in teirid
prorestly bela by ere
eettest.
“RiGee alas

faa eb Nustie seer sveseuth by 2.9 +
riat ox Since r

) ssyitg core et

eters 6
i253 @ eezeet gottes on tha
5 eis aedy

Tho test pert aust

ttaries none of aay
cares a cesult of

tica

gts bovke ar. here to

tLe hero 29 cotlect

Sealey Bis. Ganoral

ay thet be elVays

Te aa ble fase

fe Liby: ales

iis no-no currency

ae lear

ty et tho

but atiit a



Of dee
+ (Chicesd

doe pite tetas hotetat!

Ptigiqaee.s ot
ec sf7inicea ia
foread the Selitians to forbid the uae ef their trove.
a Suaas pect. as arestly states ¢ Ro Belgians to
2 cess. 10, ba eloared”, :
what it ney Fook 11,6 ¢ :
43 & precefulicea i
serca. ta v2 “vide

tary situatica not are pirat
veenttal reeitay the av

serothize :

H steoyed apentseuterty’ Mike. scceou" t:
bat the eoupation
de the a i

eaozgo told mo he hed reseacitatsd
Sm fracees, Threc dard. bets,
seved in by Nebute (ea oaf:

villase waa des
riot kilbing and footlsy en

eause of the troudle tr ry

Gerry ant. Jurion (Gersy"s wite) bed tea vith
Twas invited tus

Fool Gerry outenszecrred ce for 4



bedad‘ast Peis by “Jes
ations of the writ to
sate Hy

ointient for tx:
our dia tonal Back passer, ovarytt

fa the hota Waiting to

pedietals

xt ane Seethings -Spvat the
atthe. WSote dea. ti

ed hie.
tired to finaitse our,
wetting caxious

bizo whi de waiting
oy 2 8. avsuree. uo
Conpler entoaonte
ft three tijes te

wrects.
ant has done what Se cca.
for rein kasinse L-oito Zly-tisre ten
aU satertel, trensport, platet ot: ene th
dtectics Sager wour vous.
nee atte had not
Macrotis” That Sed 20:
245 Liots, chef ees pilots 2
but [da not intead to plcy a hacey roie thore, Got cy
€a Tshonbe scfsoaetiy = c
fu -Albortytica UF
© Plocks fit des «
for ave

ive ca beet

Toit

road ee arsy.
es ef fo laugded

Get as meny white troops aa Tove e

Wout Regan with 2u

riders today, Watted ail 29: tuf Pinsily



15th -aessat 64,

oa ef ‘the: gine io “phoir, aacettes ny
and stayed Bedi:
Margera. +

palace ad 120) Ura.’ Mobeta arrived at 1995 and
net ve bad prepergd for the catist=rat.

Taboaba,

Suatoned’ to: f
.e gave bia the
Gabered dn to the yreseiee ifgu bra, recent Meceage,
sister), Jutta aad cyself, Tebonda
five visits to cet the

forta ¢324:

Mctutu, Lindska (Security.
Dell with Julfa.. Yop coos it ta:
treat thing fixed ete. Julia creverod Mia bark.

@< ves T satiafied vith the

Finally ait a stenight question to

Sataiga ecoatract. of: t 33 or no. I eafd Ios but osing to the Cost
of tiviag expected hisser fetes, Thode puinted to the Index eteuse
antigatd that tock cere of she dutcluation of socoy, I insisted ca ®

ve erty

tea contract vbick taey drufeté and afgaed thera and then. fev

I not tn Yazies sere

hoe sby ve

Next Moduta very ecits

by were the SA pen not th

Gia Eoboro vas v:

{rot Tatovbe.

wrorised today? Haale!
Souce Gt take 4 1623, I said a roath. Got
t

the rebels, nos, now, a2- azariisy fist ea table, Hobutu thea de> Sap
on table add sho: Acs the geithen, Tees pisee of aszer end vrois Cour
wire. Next $ci2va,

gvosi vite qua p9sgé! ent yositioa, Mast cre

pats, AlbortvEl.e,

ile-units, eesa wait, Avs, £2

3 -ith sesh greup. Con it be doze Se

said ¢)

nef testiay.

tote sa ty

great ¢7 ee in y

etek anaes

“hands

we the Cone eat sernas Teawe

erent to
serv th fres ef gaates anid it

fa tees.



ca" thay ver
Soapy Ag Messy vio ser ieed early th
fe-everi

Te 82 %
Vority cist new By

findieh tao
efebiled loth

iP
; j ae 25: 2 esta {3 of
Lcceoaasetees tale Livedes’ poy. 7 oo fessiesoer '
. esate segeeaasagsiad gesnacsvastrtacae ie

i
i



+ Piying: Senina’ first, Vigst,

ceerdateont toed gen a

e wwinds 30

tee Jake Joburg te 6

ses2y lade 4A abollt B Aaya

Tsaud'- dasteuscins for the:

ith the cocéy.

ever GU»



eecaizieze

a WICKS, /MAIS
7 co7-uce-o1l fa
SEX M 008 7 CEF -02128
26 FEB 65

CEFENSE
P2.



2, caleea, ch/psior,

o, s0p6; oops) ca
vend Bnet Ast cre

Fors, cfc Be CRSy Fhe

WER SECARCE-
AB FROM » SECAROE: ie
REPORT CLASS:

CONGO (LECPOLDVILLE )/souTs AFRIGA/SOUTHERN RHODESIA

OMSE AND MOSUTU FOR CONCENTRATION
GROUND TROOPS AT KAMINA;

R pict ON PASSAGE TO “SMOTH.
SCCRET NO FORZIGN DISSEM

AcL+2 788s
's
Doe OF 15, MERCENARY

D PLAN CF ate PREPARATIONS. :

11 AGSUST 64 é
D REPUSLIC, LeopoLiwitLe 12 AUGUST 6h

NTS AND THAT THEY ACCURATELY

INSTRUCTIONS FROM ‘TSHC!
y PILOTS AND. 27 MERCENARY

JECTS

7 STATE
WOMEN pam pase To SIG CENTER
Fon euscinett eanstr SiON. a
Hoar h & SE DIES 12 Claes
to Tocs

tH PRECEDENCE :

ow caret

oaigRITY

hip a

“gasEO OM: ACL “2B
13 sveusr 1965 Mitmuncew; NP/SECARCB

| baa |
ie : | uanom

Bald
Ailes ease

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED. Capy Now



“Sa Ret ay request
—ASELAY REQUEST ©
Th COMMENT,



ip FLA OE

CENTaAd INTELLIGENCE AcENCY

Intelligence Information Cable : ania
COUNTRY “ace ' : 57. “Lawes” 348/01 482-64"
DATE GF : : 4 \ Sree DISTR «13 aucusr 1964"
ene ones i stmect ot. 2 :

<ouee ANS mosUTU FOR Cone
ENAR1LS AT KAMINAD OPRES
SN}. PPEPARATIONS.

imsraucTIONS OF
CENT RAT LOM OF! af

f
as
: ah 2 SUMED "BLAN OF ¢

potoviece (12 aucust 1968) 2.1

\

an Bust NE 2Siam (e) F ROW A TORMES KATANGA KE

Zo (raat eoaRe mace trCSe:sTatecntS AND That They ACCURATELY

errmarsae:
BEFLCET THe FACTS AS mE KNCWS THEM) +

CHALL - HOARE

icone 1, ON TL AsUST Y COMMANDER M

we = MORNING, PRIMICR MOISE

i SAID PRIVATELY THAT AT 9915 HOURS
TSHOMSE =AD SENT A CAR TO PICK UF

FOR’ AN ¢

CEMARY AIR COMMANDER:
JEREMIAH PUBEN AND WIFE, NIMENT. THEY WAITED. UNTIL
TESS Hi
WAS. HOA:
ON 25 JULY, THE GIST OF WHAT TSHO

RS AND THES Ly FOUR MINUTES", THIS

£ ARRIVING -IN THE CON3O

"S FURST. INTERVIEW WITH

D was, “HCW SOON CAN YOU

ERINS “ON OIN? THIS iS VERY vt WANT

OUMERT: THO MENTICN OF "yOUR .
R EUROPTAN MCRCENARICS STANOING

YOU IMMEDIATELY." (FIELD ©

MEN" IS CiviQuSty A REFERENT TO

Tots mates ecu'aics informatica adeering ibe Pationnl Deven of the Catted erates intnin the enadaing of the Roplogess Law, Thee
18, OB, Gem 152 And 554 the uracemimsa or Fevslaiion of which Ib AL GUAENE? Wo en Uneutberteed permed 1) preblbited by law.

SECRET vp feu asso

Viner am ies “$ec0t aia ic UMA L0Cr ONE. 0ck Om FOO ERE
eiart :

STATE/IN® te

ROOM DIANSAIPAGE WO) STATE {G<T

i we
7 CNOOPS22 —_DRLACSI NIG
pia.cuc 29 arasa



HCANCN — OSMMINATION ©

Te THE: CONGO.) - 1Sin

1
|
| HAND AND -SENT EVAND, THE PURENS 4NUAUSTAFF CAR TO -SEE

NATIONAL, (ANS) COMMANDERS IN-

;TU-WAS. "CHARMING Ata

ae a, ost cooacRérive, AGRCE ING cath
sous 2. TO EVERYTHING, HE APPEARED™ MORE ENTRENCHED THAN EVER” AND :

“IN FULL CONTROL (SIC) OF THE SITUATION, ”
Bart MOBUTU SAID: THAT HOARE, THE MERCENARY PILOTS AND 299 ‘ADD | TONAL
MERCENARIES ARE TO SE FLOWN. TO KAMINA, MOSUTU THEN TOLO PUREN ‘HE
> EOWLO HAVE 15 PILOTS, PUREN IMMEDIATELY PRODUCED A. LIST OF SEVEN :
PILOTS WHO HAD SEEN WITH HIM IN KATANGA IN 1961 AND ARE NOW WAITING © i
i IN-LONDON AND SRUSSELS,. TO HOARE 'S SuRARISE » MO3UTU quickey STARTED. Fy
PUTTING THROUGH LONG-O'STANCE TELEPHONE CALLS * AND IN TWO HOURS.
THE JO3 WAS DGNE." THESE SEVEN, THE THREE NOW IN LEOPOLOVILLE

f (JAMES HEOGES, ERROL KINGMAN AND PITER MACKINTOSH), PLUS PUREN, LEAVE
FOUR STILL NEEDED, PUREN $S SENDING TO JOHANNESSURG FOR THEM,
| HOARE COMMENTED THAT AT THE MOMENT THERE ARE SIX T=6'S AVAILABLE

FOUN A . ARRIVED IN LEOPOLOVILLE FROM LUANDA-ON 8 AU GUST,

| caN LEOPCLOVILLE (FIELO COMMENT: «THIS APPEARS TO SE A MISTAKE,

CLASSIFICATION ~ DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SE

CONTINUATION GF TDCS' INFORMATION REPORT


6p Fac disse

yOCs -318/0! eH

PRIGR TO THIS FLIGHT THEY -
EAR, TIGHT MORE ARE. EXPECTED | -
TALIAN AIR”

Six’ T26'S.St

LATTER ARE: NOT ARMED;

NSSCMELED AND REASV-TO FLY DURING THE

ING GS AUSUST 2)

MK IOR,: WHICH HI
ECLATAN OF SUPERIOR’ RANK
Tu. THE COMMAND LINE WILL

IN THE CHAIN OF COMMAS, AS-ACRELD WITH M

RUN FROM TSHOMSE TO-MOALTU TO MAVOR-GENERAL LOUIS 603020. TO "HOAREs

IRTESRATED INTO THE ANS, HOARE SAID. HE

AND THE WHOLE FORCE
TIONAL CHIT "FEV COMMANDO-ANIC, * 808020,

HAS CHRISTENED THE
AND THERE 1S A POSS-

HELADDED, $S NOW WAITING FOR HiM AT 5
HIS SECOND=1N-COMMAND with

SITY THAT HE: AND i
FLOWN THERE ON THE NIGHT, OFM ALK

T. HOARE SAIO HE 1S PRE-

NT HE WILL) NEED AND CLAIMED
» SAYING SO," THAT THE LIST COULD
THE SITUATION.

WES AS HE SEES THEM ARE

ic MILITARY

RTVILLE. HE PLANS TO SEND PATRICK

MANENG, KONG

@ AuGUST CSTENSIBLY-AS A
iES=

GIMALLEY, AREIVED He LECPOLOVILE

| HOARE®§ INSTRUCTICHS, BACK. TO" JOHAR

yo Sue’

‘| CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS, _
. | SECRET - _... RE
ies i
; ese

ros: 2096
i CONTINUATION OF TOCS INFORMATION REPORT



are eee
Colity hegg ¢ | TUC: :

9 Reisoesy |." > TS" Tpact
(Figo comin: SEE act 2764 (

E FoR AN: EARLIER REFERENCE | ey HOARE 70

BAYS HE PLANS -T

ONE UstD iN 19v' ts NOT ENTIRELY ns giacfonr AS°K MOOCL FOR ANEW"
ONE AND WILL HAVE TO SC AMENOED IN "CERTAIN RESPECTS", ONE NEW CLAUSE”
THAT. HOARE INTENDS TO HAVE INCLUDED 1S: THAT HE MUST BE ABLE TO *
TERMINATE, THE CONTRACT “ON HIS OWN JUDGEMENT." HE ADDED THAT HE
FORESEES NO DIFFICCLTY WITH MOSUTU ON THIS: SCORE y a

Je AFTER THE INITIAL HALE-MOUR MEETING WITH MOSUTU ON THE
MORNING OF 11 AUGUST, HOARE AND THE PURLNS RETURNED TO SEE. HIM AT.
1538 HOURS THE SAMS CAY, MC2UTU WAS JUST THEN. LEAVING TO SCE TSHOMBE ,

ANO THE GROUP FOLLOWED, THEY WERE KEPT WAITING UNTIL 196 HOURS

WHILE MOSUTL AND TSHOMSE CO RRED IW PRIVATE. WHEN THEY WORE

FINALLY RECEIVED, THEY PRESENTED MOSUTU WITH AN CSTIMATE
OF EXPENSES TC SE INCURRED WHICH HE. READ CVER ANO APPROVED,

y AIR CINEMEAFSA,

"B.. FICLD DISSEM: STATE ARMY t

CLASHFICATION — “USSERINATION CONTROLS:

SECRET

=
CONTINUATION OF TOCS INFORMATION REPORT


‘cenrvani inreiiiotuce aouncy: | | |e Pasexiry

atelligence Information Cable eee atei

"oh, YOGS a= 315/00089-ON:
Bare: 21 avoiaT 1968

em eusintssnan (0)3 1aer cneastanaa sctactauy (c), row wean
3a erry

ar 1 2 (tmat woant's statcudats aCCuMATELY AEFLEC!

Tews and Vet Fats a8 mt ancu trie).

Vy. OM 26. AUGUST "GN, MERCENARY COMMANDER MIZHACL HOARE SAiO
PRIVATCLY THAT MRS JEREMIAH PUPEN, WIFE or THE MECCNARY AIR FORCE
COMMANDER, HAD ARRIVED IN’ JOHANIESZURC FROM LEDPOLOVILLE ON 17

JST WITH THE CONGOLESE GOVT FUNDS HEEOLD TO PROCEED WITH ME
SE MARY ROCRUITING, ALTHOUGH HOARE HAS HAD HO NEWS OF HER MOVEMENTS:
SINCE THEN, HE CONFIOENTLY EXPECTS THE FIRST ORAFT OF MERLINAPIES,
TWEEN Bit AND G@ OF THEM, ACLOMPANIIED LY HIS SECORD-IN-CO MAND ALASTAIR

WitnS, TO ARBIVE AT RAMIKA 5 SOHAINE SURG ALOMAR & ROOTS) AN”
AiR SERVICES FU IST. SOME OF THEN WILL HAVE “CEN REA,”

WiTCO IN JOMARNESSURS, SOME IN SELIS“LSY, SILLETS, CQUIPMENT AND
So er arr ee ret ce ee ren cre ne meee oe meee re me

SECRET 4 Fee ROE a’

Memos pia Ameria macy amy cD sk tee oe eat Jc



“MeN: ata Tie, fr
2, HOARE THEN SAID THAT HIS PRESENT PLAN 13 TO FORM FAVE COMMANDOS -

OF 19% MERCENARIES EACH (COMMANDOS "A" THROUGH "E"), EACH IS TO HAVE
AN ARMORED SPEARHEAD IN THE FORM:OF A-"FERRET® OR OTHER LIGHT ARMORED
CAR3-AND ALL COMMANDOS WILL HAVE TO-OPERATE UNDER HOARE'S CONTROL,

SINCE HE.HAS NO ONE ELSE CAPABLE OF ASSUMING .SUBORDINATE” © COMMAND

AT THIS TIME, .
3. HOARE SAID HIS FIRST OBJECTIVE -1S ALBERTVILLE, WHICH HE PLANS

TO TAKE FROM THE LAKE, HE HAS CHRISTENED THE ATTACK "OPERATION —
WATCHCHAIN’ AND HAS DISCUSSED IT IN DETAIL WITH CONGOLESE NATIONAL
ARDY (ANC) COMMANDER=IN-CHIEF MAJOR-GENERAL JOSEPH HOBUTU AND WITH
COLONEL GUY LOGIEST, RANKING BELGIAN MILITARY ADVISER TO THE anc.
MOBUTU, ON 19 AUGUST, CONCURRED FULLY IN THE PLAN AND SAID ALL NEEDED
SUPPLIES ANO EQUIPMENT WOULD BE AVAILABLE AT ONCE, HOARE THEN ASKED
HIM FOR RECONNAISSANCE PLANES, FOR USE IN THE ALBERTVILLE AREA,
WHICH SELGIAN OFFICERS HAD REFUSED HIM DURING HIS RECENT VISIT TO
KAMINA, MOSUTU GAVE HIS ACREENENT TO THEIR USE, ON 29 AUGUST,
LOGIEST “ENTIRELY APPROVED" OPERATION “WATHCHAIN’, ME THEN WENT

ON TO DISCUSS WITH HOARE THE CRITICAL SITUATION OF THE EELGIANS- IN



“Tre -woree “by iac AND. Te. WHARF 5
i aie bat ehh

(GASTON EMILE) SOUMIALOT, (PIERRE) MULELE ‘AND OTHER REBEL LEADERS
VF CAPTURED. SHALL | SHOOT THEM OR TAKE THEM PRISONER?" MOSUTU'S |
ANSWER WAS, "I DON'T WANT TO HEAR AGOUT THESE THINGS," WHICH

HOARE SAID HE INTERPRETS AS TACIT AUTHORITY TO KILL THEM,

Se HOARE THEN SPOKE ENTHUSIASTICALLY ABOUT HIS RECENT CONTACTS.
WITH SELGIAN MILITARY ADVISERS TO THE ANC. ON,-19 AUGUST, BELGIAN
AIR FORCE LiguTENANT-coLONeL, (FNU) B0UZIN, WHOM HOARE DESCRIBED AS
AN "UNPOPULAR LITTLE MAN, IDLE AND IRRITASLE ALTHOUGH PROBABLY

AS, "



‘TRANSPORTCO TO: NOUILI' AIRPORT FOR ALRSHIPMENT
38. (FIELD COMMENT: THE GOATS. AND ENGINES -
: W BY ‘AIR ON 21° AUGUST.) :
6. FIELD DISSEME STATE ARAY-NAVY AIR CINOMEAFSA,





SCR TO ANC C-4)

- NOTADEY



Le OVILLE)

CABLE

cy LEOPOLOVILLE 15 AUGUST 64 ~
4» FRA EX:

1S RE

NOE, MISSION FOR MERCENARY PILOTS

KATANGA MERCENARY (C).

nie)

GUIRED TO €F

Tos °
PRECEDENCE
Tr ROUTINE
[eRe Bity

| BASED ON: aces
i witmunore/ {se ete cago



NARY PILOTS, JAMES. GES, :
N AND FETE MACKINTOSH, ATTENCED A GRIEF ING ON THE MILITARY :

SON GIVE

PS UNGIAA!

Ai CONGORESE NATIONAL “ARMY (ANC) HEADQUARTERS BY

G

(FN) SCUZIN, FROM wHAT THE PILOTS ‘SA:D AFTERWARDS,

EPLRE FHM FOR A MISSION TO

TACHED GREAT IMPORTANCES THEIR

NAISSANCE MISS:GN IN THE VICINITY

iY TOLD THE PELGTS THAT LULUABOURG:

wamatens ateccice ibe Matient! Deterae’e! che Cacted States wttnta the menolae © the Sepiaiage Lave THe
TH Ihe “renenianoe or reveisucs of wala ip any q@anner Us ap enmnbartaed

SECRET

Spetene bee ade acd navE Cane eS MCUE NGA MIC at Ut Och Ont.



peg ete nema neninne eg eat asi eterna

3a AT 139 HCURS, PUREN AND KitGMAN TOOK OFF IN ONE OF THE T-6'S,
, NIOSH IN ANCTHER, 8OTh PLANES WERE GCMPLETELY, ae

(Nd HELMETS, “NO PARACHUTES, NO RADIOS, NO’ ARMS,” NO
INS'STEC ON GOING. BcFORE THE PLANES TOOK OFF, MRS.
5 EACH CF THE FOUR MEN $268 WHICH SHE HAD RECEIVED FROM ANC

ENERAL JCSEPH, MOBUTU. THAT SAME MORNING,
AMOUNT FOR HERSELF AND DISTRIBUTED - THE SAME AMOUNT

FOLLOWING: MERCENARY COMMANDER MICHAEL. HOARE,

15 AUGUST, HOARE DISCLOSED PRIVATELY
XPRESSED CONCERN ‘AS TO WHAT MIGHT HAVE



yen Ty/TOew-OF BIaTH

FF aeeah rin Taleo Tost
si te an

‘Oce, cone fis. “sat,
23

in ase, =

WES OENCE

carded

COUNTRY oF LocaTioN

Gaal RET ION OEE

one fe

SECONDARY CCSe

TRFORWATION AODRESSTEE

Cave Tone

HAND CARRY CR FORWARD RY TUBE IF TRUE NAME APPIARS

Auove.

Tiana tune OF mi outitEe

SECRET

708 80,

rreriy





MOBUTU HAD MET THAT SAME OAY AND oxc jot, tat THE EUROPEAN HERCENS,”
APLES WOULD BE USED. AND THAT PUREN WOULD BE 1n.cyunat oF te ainror
= CINFOPHANY COMETITS “KALIBIONA ¢S very
ACCESS TO ii AT ALC TIMES.)



viuce tf THE verecunnics o nro ACTION... 1
THE bettas ee ir wrens To Ask woouTy ud spon HIM



JOS" DENARD 13 CT INYO
TING MEN. THERE FOR SERVICE

“tp: THE FORMER KATANGA MERCENARY,
HE 1S ACTUALLY IN-PARIS, RE



INS 25 JULY, CAARYING.

ER DC-4, CAPTAIN MuLLocK. wHey

AUTHORIZATION

TELEGRA™ FRSY

E WHICH COLONEL

(SECURITY) HELD was AMBIsuous. Tou

CH AND GO UNTIL ‘1aca
HOURS wi:

yo

E

YS FINALLY GAVE GO Avead.

3. CONTACT SECURITY

Eel, INSTEAD LEFT LaST Mr

PILOTS INCLUDING MACKINTOSH.

ALL CTHER RANXS, FLY WITH ME TONIGHT.

HT WILL

IN 7-18 CaYS TIME. MEANVHILE

THINS TO THE PRESS WHO HAVE THE sTory,
NE. OF THE

IN Pus. INEVITABLE.





ae
f-
ad nice

Gea re
Q) vce”

HAN, owen

cut an

i
1
1

Kant rena,

at
1

i «

1

i ,

f H
'



: 7 c

I Intelligence Inforimasion Cable

toss mane, eee

ns Le ON-15 AUOUST 91; MERCENARY COMMADER MICHAEL HOARE SAID PRIVATELY
WAT, OFSPITE THE ASSURANCES, CIVEH BY PREMIZR BOISE THOME OW 13
ASUST, We LATTER O10 NOT (CGNYORE, HIM, HIS” SECOND - iN~COMMAND .
ALASTAIR WICKS, MERCCNARY AiP FORCE commsac® SEREMIAN PUREN aD ORS.

TPPEN ON TB AUGUST TO COMPLETE THE NEGOTIATIGNS ON PAY ALG ALLOWANCES
AND SIGN A COMTRACT FOR THE 259-000, EUROPEAN J MERCENARIES TSH ae
WISHES PROUT TO TE! CONGD. (FILO COMMENT FOR THE CVENTS OF 3.
AUGUST, IN THE COURSE OF WHICH TSHGRGE GAVE SUCH AN ASSURANCE,
HE ACL219% 6) iroce garry ta

2. MEVERTELESS, AT ifr HEARS, PRS, PRON MENT TO THE orice”

eect seems neta eae is Yectaeet Dente So et nae wae oe my op em Lad
Do ee ce ane te ce we © ca SF OS Baas aneet  me Geen! pee W pene 7 Ee,

SECRET ae eee arena fF

Pierce eee preetregeeese as generar e eee pegeeneeeeneae eH ca
Loft ee wy



tl alata

FRANCS ‘or. “APPROXIVATELY 9. “POUNDS STERLING, DRAWN ON &. BELGIAN SANK y
WHICH SHE” SAID SHE HAD RECEIVED THAT. MORYING FRCM MoeUTU eur. wt
SSE HAD WAITEO UNTIL: THAT MOMENT TO MENTION, AT FIRST, HOARD SAID,
“NTSEEMED IMPROBABLE THAT THE. CHECK COULD Br CASES. HOWeVER, =~ 9
TARQUSH THE INTERVENTION OF MOSUTU, KAS. PUREN FINALLY MADE ZONTACT
WITHA "HIOH=LEVEL SURETE OFFICIAL" WHO CASHED THE cHCCK
DOLLARS, IN FF TYA00LLAR AND .CNE_HUNORED-0OL LAR

US." (FIELS CoMeeriits
2 FAIRLY PELIAGLE SOURCE, A HISH-RANKING NATIONN. SLRCTE OFFICIAL,
TSESORTS THAT The CHECK IN QUESTION WAS FOR 1,123,900 2c-cran
PAYRGLS BY THE EONOUE NATICNALE Of BELOIQUE TO MISS VF, REAIPREZ,
1S MRS, PUREW'S MAIOEN NAME.)

recaps

De HOARE THEN SAID THAT, PERHAPS GC>CAUSE OF HR HL

S MGT. FLY TO JCHANET SSun5,
GM TAG TY AUGUST ALITALIA FLICGT AS SHE HAD 98

Speny PRODUCED FRG HER HANDEAG A” CHECK FoR The EQUIVALENT. n BELG HAN





“ qanTads ireaso tees sorner”
Intelligence Information Cable
Ln eyeing GE os

— 1 CATE ON 13 AUGUST 64, MERCENARY COMMANDER MICHAEL HOARE SAID

lTPRIVATZUY THAT AT 1939-YOURS THT SAME ‘Oav, HE END ALASTAIR WICKS,

MNS SECODAIN-COMANO, MERCENARY AIR FORCE COMMANOCR JEREMIAH Pr REN

AND VRE TREN MET WITH CONCOLESE PATIONAL ARMY (ANT) COMPANOER- INA

DoF eee PAL JoSe PH Gy TMT PRINCIPAL DECISION REA DHE : :

WAS THAT ROARENS MEPCENARY FIPCE, WEN FORE, WARD ct TAUTONGMDUST,
COND LOMMENE,  PRESUCALLY THIS MEANS IT MOULD HT EE ORISA

y

ee

Sonate!
Re ere eee

S E2e te a)



TSHOMBE. THE MEETING LASTED "EXACTLY TH minutes.”

Punt tf HE weuno-AccEPT ne: MISSION Guruneg oy socuTU oN u AUBUS'

TSHOMEE, ME.SAID, APPEARED ovine eeuitD.
FOP DETAILS OF THE MISSION, “see SELOW AND feu-2788
(. rees/oiNR-B ae

: 3. AT 1598 HOURS, THEY AGAIN SAW SOUUTU, WO. tou THEM THAT A
SECOND APPOINTMENT HAD EFEN MADE FOR THEM WITH. TSHOMBE FOR 1768 HOURS,
19 SETTLE THE LAST DETAILS AND SIGN THE CONTRACT, HOMEVER, AT 17058.
HOURS THEY WEPE TOLD TO RETURN TWO HOURS LATER. THCY RETURNED

AT 1968! HOURS, FOUND MOBUTL WAITING AND, AT 162) HOURS, WERE ALL
ADMITTED TO TSHMGE*S PRESENCE, TSHOMEC GAVE, THEM INSTRUCTIONS

TU "RETAKE Tf CONDO": MORE SPECIFICALLY, MANONO, KONGOLC, ALBERT =
VILLE, UVIRA, STAMLEYVILLE, IM THAT ORDER, HE PROMISED ALL SUPPORT, .

WITHOUT SESTRICTIONS CF ARY MINN, MICH, HOARE LATER CUMPIIES,

WAS "RATER OISTIPSING AND A 611 TOO PAKH OF A SOOG THING,” HOARE
ALSO AUTED TAT NCUTHCR TSA HCE “NOR HOOUTU, SEEMED, PAPTICULARLY
CONLESKES AS TC HON THE AGS WAS DOME PROWINEO 11 WAS: OO.



43 PLANNED, LUI THAT RECRUSTING CONTINUES 3G HALE A HIGH PRIGRITY,

IN’ JORNNESSURS CN 15 AUGUST, WICKS WILL ALEAT THE MON WAITING
TEPC ANT SHOULD EE ASLE HOARE ESTIMATED, ARRANGE TO HAVE 59 OF
ER@ READY TO Fie fe 7Kaths oy 18 AUGUST. ANS AP NORE br GUST.
LATER ON 15 AUSUST, WICKS WILL “FLY Gl TO SALIS2URY, WHERE TE 1$-TO
PeCHUET AS vate 6 2O8StE.7, Dut MOT LESS THAN 3p, HOARE, SAID
RE tiaS CLEA! 4OTHE SUUTHERN RHODESIA SECURIT? SERVICE FoR THIS
ACEI C,H ASOED THAT THE "FIRE. 12) ARE VITAL,” THAT HE WOOD
EO Eg ou COMLO USE FAS MARY AS WICKS CAN R815L,4
Veg URLM WILL RETURN TD LOOPCLOVIGLETOM 17 AUUST. TMG 7 ume:

CEPARY PILOTS W

SLATE cat IS, HIARL, WIS Ae PLALTS

11g sheet
[SECRET

1
[is CTR STASTIC, REIS Os AP DELISHTTE” AT THe wae Ter



HE ALSO sorte THAT "THE DIFFICULTY WOULD NOT GE IN-TAKING TORS or
HENCE THE NECESSITY FOR TRAINING re

Ih HACRING THEM GACE TASEN.”
GAPRISCH TROGPS TO TACE CVER WEN THE, NERCENARY FORCE woves one
WE-HAS ALREADY SUGGESTED To MOSUTY THAT” e COME PERSONALLY 19 aMina
OWN ARRIVAL THERE.
THES.

SECTION Two WEEKS AFTER HIS
"a VéRY HIGH CPINION™ OF MCSUTUTS CAP/
STATE ARMY NAVY AiR CINCMEAFSA,

FO:CONDUCT AN “1
HE ADDED THAT HE HAD

J. FIELG DISSEe:

EN 97 MESTAYE
Ta Baa a RTERT

