# 104-10247-10060

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10247-10060

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Background Use Only

DO NOI REpreGuEE

DISPATCH

CLAS-FRIATIN

KAPOK/SECRET

PROCESSING

TO

cos.

Santiago;

LIFO

COS,

Zontevideo; CoS,

Lucnos Aires:

Caracas

Chich,

TilI

FAOM

Deputy Chief, FISA LUFC, HES HABHUNHV

/ manato fil 1n:11.40

NO INITIRE 94841819

MCAUQLARITES DISA

¡ COM DOCE SADERING

Chief of Station, JIWAVE

SUBJECT

DYVOUR PBRUNEY Operational

Possible Utilization of AUICE-14 in Student Activities

ACTION REQUINLO. REFERENCES

Action Reguired: Request Station Intorest and Coments.

SUMARY. This dispatch contains a proposal for the re-

location of a highly competent, trained, experienced JAVE

ANICE-14,

to another tH area where he could be utilized

in student activities whilo comploting his educational credits

for a law degree.

Subject's effectiveness can no longer be fully

utilized In the JMAVE area; it is proposed that his unique

training and qualifications may be of utilization to another

KUBARK Station.

JIVAVE Station. 1s currently utilizing a principal agent,

AWICE-14, who appears to be particularly well-quallfied for use

in student activities in a Latin American university.

has been a JAVE agent since February 1963.

Prior to his being

recruited by the station, he had nade ten clandestine trips into

In tho year and a half since his recruftrent,

he has nade

five nore clandestine trips under Station direction.

He has re

ceivod extensive FI and PM training.

ile has recruited a number

of agents for the

Station, both insice and outside of Cuba, up to

and including one high-ranking ofiicer in the preseat Cuban

Covernnent.

He has shown outstanding ability ari initiativo in

.I1 these activities.

Unfortunziely, A-l4 is noz su knowledgeable

of soveral interlocking operations currently in ceing inside

due to his direct participation in these projects, that

JA'AVE can no longer continuo to alloy A-11 to nake any

black infiltrations, despito his strong desire to continue doing

A-14 has been told that for the protection of the intornal

assets he must nake no furthor infiltrations.

Attachments:

SEP 25 1004

Training Report Dtd 20 Doc

Training Report Dtd 18

6-4 - L/

- Att.

Micro for

Record Did 14 Jul 64 - H/W

-Att.

PRQ Part I - USC - Att: 5.

I DOC. MICRO. SER.!

1.

701-307337

DATE TIMED

DATE DISPATCIIED

18 Sept 61

SEP 23 1961

2 - COS/ Bucnos

- Cos/lontevideo T/atts.

COS/Caracas w/atts.

C/ill watts.

>, DC/FI/SA w/atts.

$ 7337

419-6.542

1: 14-6-57/3

UrGi -17794

1302-367337

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTLIUATION OF

DISPATCH

CiASSIFICATION

KIPOK/ SECRST

G.:- 1779-1

Due to the above centioned restrictions on A-14's

activitics, and to his strong rotivation to continue actively

to participato in fighting Castrolom Communisis, 1t 15 felt

that his rreatest contribution could be nado in the student

field in Latin Arcrica.

subject studied alicut four years at

tie University of lavana, aiming for a lay degroo. It is con-

sidered that ko sould need at loast two yoars tore of study to

degree at another university.

Subject 15 of uh1to

s--isa extraction and night pass a3 a nativo of arothor Latin

He comes from a forcerly well-to do educated farily

tros tho upper class of Cuban society.

Transaitted as Attach-

ment #5, Under Separate Cover, is a copy of Pal Part I on Sub

4. MNICE-14 has recelved the lollowing training at JUNAVE:

FI Tradecraft. Tro 3-ueei full-tino sessiong with

TDY KUROAR Instructor fron 'Icadquarters.

B. Basic Pil to includo eap and coupass, caching.

weapons (Browning 9 iz. pistol, 33 cal.

revolver,

I-3 SiG and Swedish """ Ristol, and FAL riIlO),

patrolling, etc.

Origical "o-we': course early

10G3 and frequent raf-cher jicziors since.

that Subject was not trined at iSOLATION) or ISCTROPIC).

Maritino. • Navigation, clanci-tina Maritine redl

ception techniques, usc of rotasco;i, beacons,

safety equip.ent, etc.,

small boat ka cling (fron 13'

Boston Whaler with singlo silent outboaru to 17°

Thaler with tria 75 ip. outboards to V-?0).

two week basic cousse in early 1903 and frequent re-

ficsher sessions sir.co.

Secret Volting.

Initial course ci Instructios lus

rofresher sessions prior to each imiltration sitecot.

One-lay-Voice-Lini: (OiVL) radio conzunicatisis.

Basic courso plus reiresher prior to cach inillaration.

Pontar Canora.

Ground Photography. One weak course uld-1sus with

G.

First AIc.

Dasic courso carly 190s plus several

refresher scssions.

staur project,

a doon tes to decent for the

struction in doolitions in iite 10cu saile = romber

of a revolutionary or mizatios thick wis at the tire

Iccriving assistance iron unra.

Tranoritic: es

Attachmerts #1, 42 nas #3

are ticining Icpoi-- on

19102-:: civing craluatloss on his capabilitia, por-

sonalily and leacarsal,.

au do:lowing 1s a brich syropsis on icate apera-

tional

activities at Jaints.

Fion the first successful runnin; of the do..ü d'uratio: in

July 1953 throush the fifth 1n larch 1SSa fein. vera noterous

postporcients ard suortive attents because o. sucher,.

illicultics with tie intcrucdiate Crait, etc.),

mrioracd the follouing tacis moro otbors sint aciual 030-2-

ional C.iltions lIsids Cusr:

recruited too list-lovet drin

mcal Arouds 1a Havara ra Nell as rurcious Cittort

acoses, both

: invana aid 1a tho Mi. a nittlentiltratio

"i to too of those assori tho are still recollisi oxiiiiiaicu

on the aboic-zonitoed 1/is for trainine to the dira arca

il handled tho successiul clanisutiva re-inialtration of tils

curatitio.

КАРОЇ/SEC.

¿ i LEA CONTINUTO .

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTRIUATION OF

DISPATCH

C'-17794

LETON

aront; cimiatod lour JaiVE/rI agents tho vero boirg activoly

count by the Cuban security services fand siree tio Cross ras

nail-aded a call boat 125

topeed to caliltrate arcacturely 'cuon lo the los. using osly a

filtrated ore of the abovc-acationed P/is and

f: ily tich Ircluded 3 stall childron: and brow-it in to the

minK infil/caflitiation area a cacao of a20ic metely 200 lbs.

of tirrors and caplosive devices and arranged

tho ontard trare-

portation of the cacle contents to lisvara.

Duriny this operation.

the toan tas fired upon by a patrol boat at the infiltration

Tho tean roturned the fire, killing tro crew vasjers .

t:= patrol boat,

and escaped unlarzed through an altcraate channo.

thoro they raited out tho subsequent area alert and exfiltrated

after caplacing the cache.

To acconlich the above, MICals has

nad to na!:0 contact and Ic-contact arrangeuents, clardestine per-

sonal ucetings.and to coordinate the cfforts of a variety of 10-

ternal support clcrents.. MIChl's principal duties as P/A in the

JiVE area have been:

potting and developing se: agent candi-

intes; dcirioting of refugecs fron the MiTRuk infil/cariltration

assisting the C/O to prepare S/li ecssages to existing

Autrikk internal assets; assisting 1a the training of Atrut tear

ceabers; and assisting in the plarsing of subsequent AlTRUNk

opcrations.

Transnitted as Attachment it is an ac-ass-cat of AlICE-14

writton by his case officer in cly lici,

siortiy after i-la tas

approached with the idea of postilly noviis to a lai coustry

as a KUbick agent in stucont ascirities.

concept was Initially broaciod 1o 1-li, he is: antaro to tha

iden but asked to continua a .:ilo longer tith ictor activity

in the hope that he sould be iiced to rais orators infiltration.

In September,

1-11 re-opened this surgeer with his caes officer,

stating that he vould lilo to bo coroilerod for : trcasior into

student activitics.

It has boca rad: Priccily isas 1o 4-11 that

21 such 2 tiansier voice to do citictca,

in would to iny bove to

go to whatever locality MuDini cause,

but that is train lave to bo

entircly responsive to 103ih. direction at that locrity.

has agiced to thoco sticulatiors.

It cacula bo point:. cos here

that then originally rccruited did rantce it cicer mi.

"rorking riti,

not working 10r" is..

mis nitituce i., rever

created a control probica,

nimoist iatro mriy contis c. iis

vor! it did necessituto carciul anilarg

for ti: sast

ycar this attitude on his part has la:.i

the point that na cosylctel costits

strong basis of mutual trust a: conciconed has

11632. cu2 hin

and his casa offici.

In tid Erint

1s overthro: and replaced by a anti-courist Corsarront,

LMICr-11 can be expectad to db5..: =

any no: coverniert.

It 1s t0.

a sabinot poot within the firs:

joct can bo maintained and stronguncica tairy any sic: possiblo

davalogzent.

Althour. 2ird:zt 220202 05

. . о? о/? Алісіі іллі

aniline and ini

=0 13 -1

circly true.

i: sisteon on, lu

activittos cinnot corsiart

mies, his coility,

traling and C40210.00 20.

it workly

will traznad 11 10 2X Pich. is tie 211.

midiy concicus iid has. the icility,

to ratain

i; closest oppratiinal associatos.

It is townied that addrcroco Statioi miice Ji ta at

itin earliest ci

their incorect in utiliair.

minicos of Subjuri in their noa in strdcit accivitico.

Sibject

LES PATVIOUS COITION.

pit...costisur0.

=.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF.

DiSPATC:.

EMPOS/SECRET

rould be cqually good la orcat appagins icil:itics, anti-Coa

-unist stuicat orgari--tics,

stucent goo--squas

sctivities,

the circotion of covort spottico and recruitins

in the university.

slogcnt coula not possiaty bass as gralasizo for tua purpose of

linsoll infiltrating = Castropriontea studant group; a chec!: ol

his baciground in citbar Cuba or tio JiVE area tould reccily

indicaic ha ras violently anti-castro.

tia Siztion be-

cisor Cubaro in this sraz.

nose tao to fadi are

geisraily those

aunts livored in the dithula operatica,

i basafui of others wio

lave been approached by dols but turnod dcia the recruitzcat

Ditch, and sose JuliE Indigenous maritine assets. It is the

Station's intention to have i-is pass tie tord anoaz tacso witting

clerests that he has had a shary falling-out with stain, is

quittira cospletely, ad leariry the area, at such tize as plans

are nade to have him cove.

9. Subject is not milag a salary of SaCo. per coath fron

JHAVE. He his no outside irco=e.

His father Is dead, his

cother still Inside Caba, and the laudly finances we at rock

bostos. Consicering that Subject has a family, it is requested

that interested Statioss advise the

mount of salary which could

be offared co-censurate nith area living costs and Subject's ex-

Travel costs fros J-l'E to a li anza can ba borne

by Jails.

Subseruent emperoes rould tora to is sores by tho

Station taking over the agent.

Corce fur Subjean's source of

income should be sungested by i:. interosted Si-tion.

cational grant,

"sch0i2-..r."

, = simiar sashazis:,

corbizod with

cotional fonily leaith, wouid probady so seasible.

suggestions are solicizes.

MICE-ll can be azig arailabid to tarnates on scort

It is hoped that a transcer cai do tuna dy Garay 1965,

cortainly prior to tie openin; oi thu satool jor if tra ani-

versity he gocs to should start its year on 1 42a42,

at nid-seroster at a universiiy on the Septiger to cure school

corcoats are also reguistod 01 problans oi erio-lont at

the university.

Abare K. 2007215

201-347337

53J

L-PA-VIRUSED:TION.

POWeRS ME.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

KAPOK

11%1

+ 263-17794

21 March 1963

MENORANDUY FOR: Chief, PM Branch, JMWAVE

FROM

SUBJECT

: Chief, Training Branch, UNWAVE

: Training Report.or. AMTRUNK Group

NitrigFILiViED

SEP 25 1964

DOC. MICRO. SER.

the AMTRUNK Group

l'ethods ard Techniques -by Andrew S. PARMERS at Safehouse #164.

All Instruction was given

in the Spanish language.

The Training course

included the following:

A. Introduction to the Training Course

3. Instruction and Discussions on Personal and Operational

Security; Cover and Compartmentation; Clandestine

Conmunications; Agent Spotting; Selection; Investigation

Recruitrent and Management; Operational Planning and

Reporting.

In additior., the trainees were given the "Introduction to

Claridestine Operations," "Espionage Cases,"

and the functions and

organization of "Soviet Security Services," for supplemental

reading and study.

he training also included, grou? discussiors ard participatio.

in a series of aporopriate operational situations designed to teach

operational planning techniques.

Several live problems were worked

out by tié students themselves, to acquire experience in applying

clandestine operational techniques.

In Sunday, 10 March, an all day

exercise in Agent Meeting, Casing,

Selection of Dead Drops and

Surveillance was held in

the city of key lest.

The group eagerly participated in the daily physical training,

which included calisthenics, volley ball, swimming and long hikes.

II. Team Evaluation:

conscientious, energet chare, were highly motivated, receptive,

hey participated

in all training and social

io friction was noted arcre

the grous.

Although there

was abundant discursion and even occasional

disagreement arong

there was no violent argument roted

To the instructor

they were polite.

respectful, considerate and friendly.

based on individual performances of the tean members, the tear as a

whole was satisfactory.

S-E-C-S-E-TS BCPY

0961-367337

---

## Page 6

14.00000

KAPOK

SECRET

B. AMICE/24 - IA - "Davial PARDON

David's comprehension of material presented, as revealed

readilv devised realistic solutions providing

for security and

eificiency in the actions contemplated.

He is highly motivated,

interested in procedures recommended,

and ready to analyze previous

Faulty operations and

to relate new techniques to his present

operational mission.

tends to keep silent until called

to participate in discussion.

resourceful in solving problems.

excellent

reports in Sparish, has many of the earmarks

of a professional

individual.

Politically he is very conscious, a keen observer and a

good analyst os cumment Latin American affairs.

Steady temper, seldom

criticizes, periorms his duties even when under stress.

apparently, by his own and his teannates

admission,

he nas had abundant experience in clardestine activities

present and past regimes in his country.

These experiences have

awarened in hin a deed need to know how to operate

more securely ard

with more efficient organization.

failures have apparentiy

¡sc to his exile on various occasions to Central and torth kenever

and have caused rany of his close comrades

to suffer arrest and

You he hopes to accomplish more and still survive collowirg

instruction and quidance Erom KUBARK.

He is probably more obicative than his teamates in

analyzing intelliferce tarrets in his homeland.

he held a middle-

-ana-ement traveling position in the present regime and is personally

familiar with many sargers, in and out of jail.

and is not in a hurry to tali too

cla-destinely.

• be able io operate

M8/41Fid.17719%

---

## Page 7

14-00000

FP.L

: Chief, PM Branch, JMWAVE

ir. deses: unora (Irving &. REliGINS)

F30:

: Chief, Training Branch, JMNAVE

Siz : Camilotion 0û Frutrino Rojino an

AMICE/14 - TA - "DAVID"

Paz: freno Eran COsydariVa regüestiro Erairing for Subjeat)

MIGROFILMED

SER 25,1964

Durino the puriod a tira 21 Jecsaber 1963, this Treinse piticiasied

In a courso oi trainina or Gladestiro itticas and Tecariques cir'usted

maren so Pianar (on 70Y freü denguenters) Ir Safe sita -216

in the SintE ares.

course, saica ves conducted in Spanish y Bases,

incined aporationra Securiago Sier,

Cicasatino Cazuricaucoas, Report initiri,

Target insajsas,

Es mart

Instruction Ecticas useù luchuded brlofingo, discusciors,

fiel:

live practicai procfene, ard essagred

AM RUNK/13.

jErcicino Erou VerO AYACREE/2e AMAKALZ, AMTRU18 and

genes

presented by faltane 1a

incing t David

te rectos:

inicotical live

rebates,

indsistcsdaio

"'=

cerca 1953.

Tre

ristlaci

0÷÷.=:

1..1.r

fcosir.:s:

wi.d

X:sricter i-

ventan

ic."

"==,

in cloras, dod conducrard

Eres cir

result,

La Taall9 do O dece Salud da Desastaro

condicent

ta corrse.

55÷*2:23..10

Pairotodo exdello in es trige:

anon carives

==e,

k÷8e

-ile

ricidan.

driadaiar

tisis das rajadred

s"Cs:..

c:'"...1

cen lo dars

cantos =

•rucáridor.

"-=?

cägorderse io

id's

dicseraries

ovc!:

8=9!

de ÷

¿ivO?

aeroda 11a

resi!y.!e

abate cris le

Mios

Ring for the diot

it"e

siliation exisilra da die comisi

• Copy

---

## Page 8

14-00000

35'3

2

conuinues to be preessin, intelligert, articulate,

sauregeous, patient, hard workings

sensitio, excollent sense of

sure de deso alaco orda well er le sole discoedo de cocare

dual; " til tie insirictor and mainteined excellent relations: ich i's +52=-

arieso doverer, de dogs nos errera to be a stronio cobruceive laudes, jes

be as no irouble geiidng she others to obaj his id de concisterily ceeze

the sonale bilga of

mahough Subject is noi shrend by nuture, be secue to thercugalo

ento: sinning sai conducting cismiosting operatione. de oberly sietes

taão since de dos siuro so many juers du micrground scalvicles, to giat

is sall dorote the rest of his diie to Intélligence a era:dong.

sorries a see body seen amera vicine dod ver

eninge in ail sunner of violence to

orertkios

the existiro regise in sis consisjo

:

(les) Materi

Elmer E. SHAPIRO

Chies, Training Branch

- 4y

!...

.id

17744

34733%

---

## Page 9

14-00000

45. 3

18 june 1964

SUBJECT

: Chief, Training Branch, INWAVE

: Training Evaluation Report on AYTRUNK Team

I. During the period 20 May through 5 June 1964, the AMTRUNK

training by Alton I. PIRNACK and John X. TARTARILLO

at safesi feyeizzi, izlo, and 8116, in the following PH' Subjecte:

A. Map Reading

Introduction to Map Reading

26 Marginal Information

4.

Grid Coordinates

Measuring Distances

5.

Azinuths

6.

Intersection/Resection

7.

Contour Lines and Elevation

8. Silva Compass

MIFRAFILMED

SEP 25'WS4

DOC. MICRO. B5R.*

B. Caching

1. Introduction

Operational Uses of Caching

3.

Steps Taken in Caching

4.

Site Selection

5.

6.

Site Requirenents

7.

Site Locations

rethods of Caching

8.

Packing

9.

Recovery

10. 12 Point Report

C. Weapons:

• 4-2 CarolI

1918 A-6 11

3.

4.

FAL

swedish "X" S"G

6: ira Pistol

M3AL SMS w/silencer

D.

Night Movemert exercises consisted of observing and

roportine on tho ixperinental faint laboratory, fara

Labor Camps

and tha princoton Packiny Plant.

KAPOK

actuates ran

• 1 166

•

301-3:2537.

---

## Page 10

14-00000

A Daylight Observation and Reporting

exercise was

conducted against a Surface to Air Missile site.

II. Team Evaluation:

During this period of re-training, the ANTRUNK Tean performed

in an overall satisfactory tanner.

Two team members

periora up to the Tean's overall denonstrated proficiency, however,

che continued strong leadershis on the part of AVICa/14 should

äise the condetence of the two weak team members.

are quite compatible, and espirit de corps is good.

Their

motivation and morale

The AMTRUNKS were safety minded

on the range, practicing good security at the safesites and during

night movement exercises.

III.

Individual Evaluations:

A. AMICE/14 - TA - "DAVID"

avid is a personable young man in fair physical condition

ossessing above average intelligence.

He has the ability to

learn and retain material without difficulty.

Due to a tooth

extraction and subsequent complications, he was unable to parti-

cipate

in the following training

activities: Class work; 20, 21,

and 22 May and 3 June.

Night Exercises; 22, 26 and 28 May.

David possesses the ability to express himsels clearly.

During

-the student lecture periods, he lectured and

answered questions

with confidence and knowledgeability.

David has

the further

ability of understanding

and executing detailed instructions with

a minimum of effort.

His approach to training was positive. Hig

notivation and morale was good; his interest and enthusiasm

outstanding.

David performed very well in the rap and compass

phase

of training.

He can accurately ground navigate, read

coordinates,

measure distarces,

and locate unknown positions

using

intersection

and resection. His report

• the one night

exercise he participated in, was too general, lacking important

details. on the target observed.

with more practice, David's

In

the

night movement phase, David had no difficulty with terrain nove-

having a good sense of direction.

He was able to use all

available points of reference to the maximum.

nis is à good example of

¿ the Caching lecture toci place while he was absent

iitle dirticulty with asserbly and disassembly o! weapons.

David kad

co--or sarse,

idtfo36d56ri.17744

KAPORE 82-307337

Cs COPY

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

36.

14 July 1967

diÜ4-9494

MEMORANDU: FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

assessment for Future KUSARK

Utilization, ANICE-1+

MMICE-11 was recruited in "nich 1963 for the Airrita project

which is concerned primarily with aproN activities.

II Ocicber 1963,

•I%ICE-14 became the P/A of the AITRUNK team and concurrerils Team

He has 6 other diTRusis under his supervision.

linued in this dual capacity until June 1961 when he was sold that he

would not be perritted to re-infiltrate in the near future.

During the

course of live infiltration operations over the past year and nis day

¡o-day duties as Principal Agent between operations, ArICE-lt has be-

come thoroughly familiar with the objectives

and accomplisizents of the

ANTRUNK operation--and concurrently, to a lesser degree,

with a parallel

NAPRON Operation (AJILASH)--to the point where his capture inside could

result in the complete collapse of both projects.

This latest develop-

ment in which his activities have been confined to the costirental

PBPRISE is"strictly-agairst AMICE-14's wishes.

above, AMICE-14 has participated in five clandestine infiltration opera-

under KUBARK sponsorship and in another ten before te became cor

nected with KUBARK.

The five nissions net with varying degrees of

success but in each AMICE-l4 showed an uncommon amount of personal

bravery terpered with a realistic application of the principles of

clandestine operations.

His performance in these operatiors has also

been marked

a resourcefulness and stick-to-it-iveness shich testi-

fy further to the high degree of notivation and personal incegrity which

this agent possesses.

AMICE-14 is 27 year's old,

married, and has three children from

four years of age to

from a family of professional

people and has hinself completed I of the necessary 5 jears for a law

degice at the University of Havana.

Khile still in Cuba, M'ICE-14 was a

leader in secondary schouls in both latanzas and javana Provinces

a member of the Diroctorio Revolucionario (DR), one of the most active

of the anti-Batista organizations and probably second only ¿o the

effectiveness.

After the revolution,

AXICE-14 held responsible

administrative positions in the Provincial Government ard in the Bureau

For a person vi his relatively young aje, he has many

close friends in high positions a1 the Castro Government.

The most renarkable inl.: about AMICE-ll is that te is mature •

beyond his years.

He has packed a lot of living into i years.

been a revolutionary since his late teens and so nuch oi his life

has been occupied with clandestire activity oi

sore sort sha: it is

rcally the only

"trade" he know's.

although dICE-ld may not admit it

excopt to himself in his neaker -oents, it may be dext so impossible

for him ever to settle down to any kind

of normal lise). lary of those

young Cubans who have been figlin; first Batista ind then Castro with

an honest real and dedication

eithor dead or surving dors piison sen-

tences. Few who have been

as activu as ho are still mlive or tree. What has

r.--=

SECRET

KAPOR, I*

..

---

## Page 12

14-00000

• SECRET

personally involved, in an aciive capacity, in

light against

is relietant to leave the lave

area and io cease active

operations against Castro as lons as his services are needed.

has said that he alraj's intended to complete his education sose

and his fanily's future will have to wait un-

til Fidol is ousted.

With his pasi experience in student activities.

ard clardestine operations, he couid be invaluable in the right

Latin terican university.

However, he intends to think of student

activities as child's play compared

to the ::HAPRON objectives of

the diTRuti project.

It is still problematical whether or not he

will accept this proposal..

NVICE-1& speaks adequate English for operational purposes

and for social conversation.

He understands idionatic English with

little difficulty. - His written Erglish is poor but both his written

and spoken facility with the language could be improved with some

tutorial training.

He wants to speak proper English and he tries

his best to phrase his sentences gra-atically but he, at least in

recent years, is hampered by a lack of formal education in English.

While he coubined both PlA and Teas Leader functions for the

INTRUNK teas, his case officer did not press hin to provide written

His reports were given verbally to his case officer who

would then prepare then in Englisa.

He has since been given the

use of a syperriter--he had taken a course in typewriting--and his

first report (in Spanish) appears io be thorough and comprehensive.

There is no reason why he cannot be developed into a good reporter

because he is very observant and

is a keen student of human nature.

He will probably

have to be prodded to continue to write but he

has not jai objected to it.

ANICE-14 would be ideal for anti-Conmunist

student activities in Latin Anerica--if he wants to give it a try.

This is still only a goal for the imediate future--he cannot be

a student all his lifc.

The wiggest challenge is to lind a way to

continue to utilize his talents.

It all depends on the Cuban

situation. If Fidel is ousted,

there is an excellert possibility

day AXICE-14 may well be

a'very influential person in a

free Cubar government.

If the situation in Cuba renains status quo

and if a way can

found to "interna-coralize" his thinking

against Communis. as a world nonace rather tian as the nore localized

personal carcer that Cuban Communis- represents to hia at present,

he could cortinue to be of imuense value

to KUBARK in other Spanish-

speaking areas for many years.

Reuben tHate

SECRET

КАРПК

i...

..:;

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SEGRET.

Itr17994

MASTECTIOUS: 1.

SECTION

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONAIRE

PART I - BIOGRAPMICAL INFORMATION

11TCE

5P

GENERAL PEASA NO TASTEM BE A RAin DO UEGa-27798

(viadio)

Angel

Miguel

DIAZ

Isalgue

1. DANT IN MATIVE LARGUAGE ON SCRIPT

3. RANE AT GIeTA (IT dolterene than Stea 1.)

Same as 1 above

Same as 1 above

ALTASES. MICADAMES.

TELECODES, LEGAL CHANCE IN MANE (SEDGE PiOR, CORdON TOR ANd pLaCE Of oRO)

None

MicHertiaD

Str 25 1964

DOC. MiCRO. SER.

S. EATE OF BIRTH

14 February 1937

PERSODAL MADITS (LOgUOR, drUPO, (Ombiane, paranoura)

to bad habits observed by case officer.

D. PLACE OF DIATO

Matanzas City, Cuba

D. COUDs nECORO scoure, dare, arresto, chardos, pureshaanta, sentences.

mprisoned several times in Cuba during fears 1953 through 195

or his part in various political causes

Spent total of about

6 nonths in jail during above period.

cEschiarion fire a

XX=

27

30

¡can drandardo of andovicoanta, iT podorblos

ME ICHT

To. RETCHI

• 570. 10. 150

huday

BlacK

Black

3=408 A45

MATES CE DINIA DISTINGUIGMINO PRATURES

None

Good

Fairero.

Thin and Scholrely.

•1A9.068

Jone

OvaL

FreCE

• 1050

.t=566.560d.177711

wears glasses continually

SECRET

Ce CaPY

18. 101

117331

---

## Page 14

1:

KAPOK -

SECTION

SECRET

PALSENT

CITIZENSAID

Cuban

11. NAFIOMALITE AT DIATH AND AMY SUASQUENT CIPIRENSMIOS (8R dOlSORONS EnDA DEGA 10.S

PRESIDi RESIDENCE (lodICase

2328 \.E.

amde, sanent or aub-lemans)

Gth Avenue,

Miami, Florida (tenant)

PERMARCAT ADDRESS (Al dollerent chan 810= 88.)

Same as Item 12.

18 ,U.S, MAIGRALIZEO CITIZEN, GIVE GAME, DATE, CITY ANO MUMBER OF CERTIPICATE GRANTCO

N:A.

3. TRAVEL OUTSIDE COUGTRY OF PRESENT RESIDENCE (COUReRICA, daRes and purpORaR)

•Fifteen clandestine trips to Cuba during period 1956 through 1964.

Subject has not left the united states for any other reäson dun

ing the past three years.

SECTION

811

PRESENT OCCUPATION

OCCUPATIONAL

AND FINANCIAL DATA

JIT. TITLE

18, SALARY (Per annus,

19. FINANCIAL STATUS (FOrDEDRO, DanA depOReRo.

securatica

and propertys

SECTION IV

ORGANIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

20 MINDERSHIP IN RELIGICUS ORGAMIZATIONS

Subject is a Catholic

21. PRESENT ANO PAST MEMDERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL ANO SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONSI POLITICAL AFFILIATIONS

Past member of Directorio Revolucionario

SECTION V

NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL

_ ECUCATIONAL CATA

SCHOOLS

MAME OF COURSE

DATES ATTENDEO

+ 00 W

EGREI

RECEIVE:

Colegio Baldor, Havana

Primary School

1944

1951

Instituto Matanzas

soulsiana State Univ.

Baron Rouge,

ouisiana

I'nir. of Havana

High School

! 1951

1955

Yes

11 hours of credit toward gedlogy degree in 1957

Law(3 rears credit) 1955 thru

1960

AND DIALECE

LANGUAGE

COMPETENCE

n16A 5 aren

10118

SPEAR

LASIOSTADO

vES

+ 1s

10

rEs

s.....ln

Spanish

English

X&5

•cao

• =.

-AUri-Lain

BeT 88N 13:13

SECRET

.

---

## Page 15

14-00000

--

SER XA SOM

SPECIAL GLALIFICATIENS 20E LATERESTS

GIVE DETAILS TACLUDING TITLES OF BODAS DA ARTICLES, ALSO DUES Or

PUBLISHERS AND PUBLIGA.

v1

"are

ARY

JATES.

Jone

39- SPECIAL SMILLS, ABILITIES, MOBBIES SUCH AS RADIO, PHOTOGRAPHY, ETC.

Swinning, Boating, Shooting

€ SECTION VIS

COUNTRY

N.A.

DATES

MILITARY SERVICE

UNIT

RANK

OUTro

PEISTIERING COUMTRY, INDICATE AMERE SERVICE-PEARORMED.

DECORATIONS, UMEN ANO ONY DISCHARGEO.

GIVE DETAILS IF BAR

INDICATS CHROVOLOGIC HISTORY OF EMPLOYUEYT LISTING

LAST POSITION PIRST. LUCILOS ANY CONSRONENT DUPLOTUSET.

25_Apr 62 to Feb 63 : (Jack Shaffer) 06

624 N.W. 6th Ave., Miami - Fla.

ACASON FOR LEAVING

150.00

• week

C. RODRESS

GoT 61 t0 Apr 62

26th St and 36th Ave Ni, *fari

RASON "ALEAVING

Laid off

SIVE DATES PErOR-TO, e.

s. 93:955s.

Jun 59 to Feb 60

jin. of interior

Havana, Cuba

Dir. Motor Veh. Bur S500.

ta ronth"

Forced to leave Cuba

Har 59 to Jun 59

jin, of Interior

Havana, Cuba

sects of ament of

so.a4

PIQUIICIAL LOVI

HAVARNSIVE

7-2 month Transferred to Motor Vehicle Bureau

+5. 9000898

1J.-

SECRET

---

## Page 16

14-00000

aIsEci.-o ix

FAR

MARITAL STATUS

Soroonio

ISCRARATEO

DATA, PLACE dO REASDA POR ALL SEPARATIONS, OUVINCES OR ANAUIMEATS

N.A.

SEGRET

DIVaAÇÃO

Assarito

POSTILAN DE DIAS, FABIONADELA

MIRE

M.58885:

JI-RAME OF SPOUSE

INCLUDING

IVING DATA REQUIRED BELO.

MO FOR ALE PRÉVIOUS MARGIAGES

ANNULMINTS, USE SHEET POR CORNCA MIFE DA MUSSADO

(Firas)

FabioLa de La PORTILLA

(Land)

Garcia

FOA.iATE SE MARRIAGE

3S. PLACE OF MARRIAGE

24 April 1959

liatanzas City, Cuba

Зв.чате Зі BORTH

197. PLACE OF BIRTM

29 August 1937

Matanzas City,

Cuba

OD.010.000L1T8 AT DIRTH

JD. SUASEQUENT CATIXENSMIPS

Cuban

N.A.

40.

ADES:S: RESIDENCE (LATT PeDIdenCe. MT deCented)

332S N.E. 6th Ave., Miami, Florida

.

SECTICO X

FULL NAVE

SEX

0F

BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

Diaria Rosa DIAZ Portilla

Miguel Angel DIAZ

Portilla

Alejandro Manuel DIAZ

Portilla

X' 1960

Matanzas, Cuba

1963

Miami, Florida

1964

Miami, Florida

NATIONALITY AT BIRIN®

Cuban

u.S.

U.S.

"SURSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS

CHILO (adentaly colla and dono rie. or nor.

addrand)

• Beeries XI

Siguel Angel DIAZ Pardo

' sold cineasmins

CE:

"ICA INI

DolOres ISALGUE Isalgue

1887

B-GrELPAT.ON

Lawyer

FATHER

• ACE

Havana,

•"Cuba

Deceased

MUTHER

Dominican Republic

SATICARLITI

¡"Dominican

AT B10T

$006 3-A'famar, Havana, Cuba

SECRET

---

## Page 17

4-00000

KAPUN

FULL NAME

diercedes DIAZ Isalgue

BROTHERS AND SISTERS

YEAR

of diaT

PLACE OF DIATH

1.935

Havana, Cuba

MATIONALITY AT DIRTA

Cuban

SUBSEQUENT CITI

MELO BY ANY BROTHER ON SISTEI

N.A:

.

SECTION XIV

RELATIVES. ACQUAINTANCES AND CONTACTS

P:AS SiP salue Communist Party member who works, a Cuban,

Communist Party member who works

movie industry. Jose Alberto SENIDEY Isalgue, Cubana pilot and official.

SE MELATIVES, FRIENDS, CORRESPONORATS IN U.S. (ENDION COlAIIONSHAD,

No relatives in U.S.

37 GATIRALIZATION OF CLOSE RELATIVES IN U.S. (GiVO MOnO, dalo, cily ond number of corsaficato francod)

N.A.

SO. MANES.

ALIASES, TELECODES AND RELATIONSHIA OF ALL PIASONS ANONS TO DE CONNECTEO IN ANY MAY MITH ANY INTELLIGEACE

SERVICE.

Jose Alberto SEMIDEY Isalgue, first cousin, Cubana pilot and official.

PERSONAL ASSCCIATICNS

SECTICN XV

D-LIST CLOSE ASSOCIATES. INDIVIQUALS DA GROUPS

Maria Teresa de la CAMPA de VARGAS Gomez

Humberto ARMADA Guerra

• SECTICA XVI

MISCELLANEGUS

-17244

SECILET

$ T.79

1901-3: 7337

---

