‘"404-10215-10218) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
T ?

!
f
!
f
i

Mre. Argentina C, Crozier A-11 937 507
Admitted to the US. as an immigrants March 12, 1960

Typer O-1 Ports SWA (San Onténio, Tex.)
Date of Birth: March 15, 1915

Received FOREIGN .ADDRESS AND OCCUPATION INDEX CARD (Budget Bureav, Yo, 43-8390)

and Dept of Justice ID card Form No. 1-151 - thru my home address at Longmont
Colorado about Muze% 12 April 1960,
Index Card filled and mailed on 19 April 1960,



N° 050

RECIBI de Gash ___

4
ue cn i : i ‘|
la suma de Seven hundred fifty andno/100 colanes EHuHEE

por —~r-—Services_rendered,.month.of January 4 : |

27 tf
yy re
nn” 4 hel & a Hee

Dor-/6 £2 Fs

i ee



i

=

2509 Univera
RECIBO POR DINERO

NY

RECIBI de ...Cash..,,
ta suma de ...EA. ght... hun:

2or-/6 68 64

SP aan | ei Ani de eee nt nage



wee

cs]
z
(
g .
H
t BIOGRAPHICAL: Consuelo Felicia CORDERO Calderon
fonsuelo Felicia CORDERO Calderon
From ~ To Place Buployment Enployer
: Kanicurist
20 May 57 San Jose, C.R. Salon BORDALLO Uuan 302D4LLO
1 July 57 Havana, Cuba Unemployed.

13 April 58 San Jose, C.R. Salon BORDALLO = Juan 302DALLO

July 58 160 Main St.
Quincy 69, Kass,

27 Dec 58 Mexico City

Uneniployed,

Salon Moderno

Mar 59 —-:180 Main St.

Unemployed,
Quincy 69, Mass,

New York 27, N.Y.

Bronx, N.Y.

160 West 55th Street, ¥. 7.

21 Mar 60 to date 226 Burgess Ave Ten: orarily unemploged.

Alexandria, Va.

Esperanza HERRERA OrAhRyarR,

17 Mar 60 550 Riverside Dr.Student at Wilfred Acadeny ~ 1657 Broadway 5lst

also employed at Glamour Cut, 353 E. 204.St., © ©
also employed at Ciro's Coffiurg , Lexinzton av

also employed at Jacques Beauty Salon, Inc,

Address

62 entre Av 3-5

62 entre Av 3-5

nko 174

91st and 92nd,



Ne 069

ay
S|

i
i

| RECIB de Cash
} la suma de four h
1
|
i

por —Rervices rendered, month of Jam. i

ke 7 GEE a a

RECIBO POR DINERO

[=
‘

FRE GH 20t- G CORRE



REESE AREAS HOLA aetna hs ni manera utc

54%
C i een ie
i, af :
: ii oda
if
12 il

neem .


i

SEGCET

Security Information

MEKRAEDUM TOs PLAES
PROM: WED
SUBJECT: Project HU-ANOID

} Project HUVANOID fe the cost important single project af the San Jose

: Station, and the basic for ail existing and coptempiated OSO activities
in th: area. It is rejuested that the reatrictions izposed usom project

: HUYASOID, aa contained in TRS-W-635, copy attached, be lifted at thie tine,
ana the Chief of Station be author!zed to direct the activities of MUKANOID
into the folloving channels.

7 (a) Direct and close supervision of HUMATOID-3, the Station's,
i penstration of the Vanzuardia Popular, Costa Hican Cocrumist Party,

‘ im order to utilize fully the agente potentialities. HUVANOID-3

1s intelligent, has a vido knoviedse of Commmiot activities, plas
api personalities and is desirous of cooperatin: to the extent ci his
ability. After a thorough de-briefing of HUHASOIL-3 by EUMANGLD, fi
in order to ac usint hin, HUMANOD-3 with the Station's apecific H
interests and rezuirezents, plus the subsequent close gupervis‘on vhich i
Will be exercised by HUMAHOID, and the continuing close cupervioion of
EUMANGID-3 by HUMABOID, it is felt that the station will then bo in

& position to provide intensive and ada-vuate coverage of tha objectives
‘ assigned to it in the San Jose SOI. ‘

F (b). Direct and close supervision of HUMAHOID-b, the Steticnts

ie s: penetration of the voren's rants affiliated vith the Vanverdia if

Popular. It is felt that the former cut-out HUCKLEBOHE, who handled !

BUYANOID-& until 1 June 1949, vas sonevnat inept in his operational

dealines, vhich poseibly may accomt for what seers to be a lack of

Productivity in the HUMANOID-k project. HUNAHCID-4 hes an intimate

: relationship vith active CP nenbers in Costa Rica, both on a low ani

L high leval, and possesses a definite potential Sor both ‘ndepenient.

if . Feporting, and for spotting a likely individual to be used.as a

i oireeet Parallel to the HUFAHOID-3 project. HUMANOID, who will nov handle
BUNAHGID-b, 19 eaya>le of directing this agents efforts into the

-4 BOoper chamels, and ‘capitalizing fully oa the talents possessed by
the individusl. It te felt that this is encther instance vhereby
EUFAHOID, by vorking closely and directly with the individual can sake
@ substantial contribution to the efforts of the San Jose Station.

(c) Direct and close supervision of HUFANOID-1 and BUMANOID-2,
the nail intercept operations presently coverin; the General Past
Office in San Jose. Thy information that HU‘ANOID-) has access to
ie important end is of documentary reliadility. Hie position is

, important to the operational structupe of the station. BMAEOID-o ts

Pn, erate, Dole 164 EFF

poe

Ef



@ very satisfactory type of azent. He displays @ certain azount

of initiative in voluntarily performin: tasks not specifically
Peuested by the Chief of Station through the cut-out EUMANOID.
HIMANGID-2 bas deconstrated the qualttiea of villineness, discretion,
and cooperation.

(4) An to the principal avent of Project HUVAKOID, the
following observations ere subnitted, viich will indicate
unmistaxeably the value of this project, end its cantr!bution
to the successful activities of the San Jose Statica.

- Evaluation of services = As the principal acent
and station cut-out, HUPAYOL 1s cherged with the direction
ni caidance of HUVANOID-1; HUMAHOID-2; HUMANOID-33
HUMAHODD-h, Hic handling of these agents is carried out in
@ profesaional and efficient canner, and his personal coments
end corrections on their reporta, based on his long ecquaintance ©
with local perconalitics and conditions, are of causiderable
value. His attitude remains enthusiastic end villing.

Evaluation of information - The information produced
vy the agents being handled by HUVANOID te of great value
to the station. In addition to his own production, this
agents operations aro vell suited to checking oa information
received fron other sources.

\ CQBZNTS = Despite the fact that HUMANOID has been vorking umer
certain operational restrictions for a mmber of ronths, his value to the
otation contimues to be of major importance. In addition to the tangible
and reasureeble irformation produced by and through hin, EUVAKOID has
Proved to be the single nost valuable source of background and orientation
data for the Chic? of Station. His knowledge of the history of Costa
Rican comamist activities and personalities, and his grasp of the various
revolutionary movements and-fizures has been freely shared vith the

Chief of Station. These “briefing meetings” represent an intanzible
contribution to the over-all performance of the Stetion. HUMAHOID ts
eager to expand his operations and upon the removal of present operational
Yestrictions it is believed that he can be given further responsidilitios,
particularly in the recruiting of adiitional sub-azents. The station is
presently interested ‘n accocplishing a parallel penetration of the
Comamist Party of Costa Rica, in expanding routine investigative coverage
end in developing additional sources on political movenents. It is
believed that HUMAHOID can insure the euccess of these new ventures.



Eduastions iligh sohool and attending exlleze in Costa lilen,

Occupation: Sergeant in VeS, Air Force during vorld We IT,

i and an sort of tha Yanan Statdon wrtil early 1949

HN &) Lektal statues lurded : '
: ©)

s Nationality: VeSe oitisen, born 22 June 1922
)

‘Hime devoted to our rork; Approximtely 40; . i
Yow oontacted: By Chief of Ststion Q i

i Be Teanofé tp a outout for projects liugzer, Humankiel’ 2 end 3, end
: | Pupenist2, S00 attecimmntoy

| sinieieaidiusiainea eee

{
T
{

Qe Productions

~@) Deeoriptéion of info produccds Corrumtet paxstention of Ieber
Groups and student proupse

()) Statieties on reports rocelved md dizsovinateds
duly thou Deoanbor 3 received 3 dissent

(o) Headquarters evaluation of info reseived: BQ
Se Cost of Projoctt £09005 rar nonthe 2D show following payamta

aay $3442 Ootebar 850539
August Bbel2. - Hovenber $2063
Septenbar = 3heh2 December 5163 F

oa

Hie Ae Administration by headquarters:
SO. "(gy Operational elesrance grantode
(>) lotmont shoot up to date.

$e Ommerdl Evalustiont

Raxreid is considered an ea Pf oem Yio valus fo
{mace than oonensurate with his salarye

dor -/G FEF?



Rar i535 988 : ; des- (6° FT/

“y SECRET A

LUD Of PRO Is classt fies, must de fittes In by the Cave Officer ano Is not to de

en tO subject. i
rational Clea It recolves

1 10129, and to all questions of

INL not be ant

nee un:

questions on pa

Part it (treme 36 to 30).

Ten
th comple

4, keyed to Hteos] to12 by au
quarters, followed proaptly by pouch

or

ry of Part
at

asIbIe, tao coples of
and one copy of Part tle

"6. Date scquired later aust be sent to Meadquarters In PRO format on a continuln

n the PRO number, composed of (al Station syabot i
uttvely by the fleid station; e.g. PEASPRO/IO. i
36. Cryptonyn Arthur G, VAIVADA

37. How, when and where was subject firet contacted or developed?

Subject was first recruited in Panam as OPATHIC in November 1948
and transferred to Costa Rica in approved HUMANOID project. Sutse-
quently was transferred to BIRADIAL project, PBSUCCESS and in 1954 to
AMPHOPARCH project (Cuba) with which he is currently identified.

Could subject be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to

\
i

eomeone else for handling? Yes To whom? Record over the  ...
past nine years shows that subject has easily been turned over to
different projects and case officers.

Best estimte of subject's motivation

Subject 4s motivated by his interest in intelligence work, desire to:
edvance in the organization as a ‘career, ite remmerstion and as a" Lope
U. S. citizen. :



NO. With vhat @gencies and files bas subject's name been checked? When?

Result? What else hag been done to verify biographical information
furnished by subject?

Checked upon recruitment. in

Fanama in 1949 and subsequently upon
transfer to other projects,

“41. What control existe over subject at

Present? How can it be increased?

“Subject 4s controlled through ‘dependence on salary, loyalty because of

‘Averican her!iage, past Arny and Agency service, anda dosire for a
career in intelligence work.

42." For what service does he think he is working? What does he think

decomes of his information? i

Subject 1s cognizant of the identity of this organization,
woo h3e> Explain muy subject's past or present connection with any

intelligence service, 88 FE :
Subject previously in U.S. Army and Air Force Intelligence,

What type of information has

ae

subject furnished? What type is he

beet qualified by education and experience to furnish? Give.

. 6valuation of information Teceived. fe
Subject’ bas furnished information received tron sub-~azents on Comminist
and revolutionary activities throughout the Geateey American—Caribbean
Hoek to en FA in Cuban project with those primary objectives,

Work to dete has been outstanding. Has been Particularly valuable in
development and recruitment of Dew. agente.

; -8 -



Bai

: 45. If subject's duties are to be other than intelligence gathering,

- explain, : : sie tare

ins Wie functicns (Adninistrative—Operational) normally exercised
by : : 4

“46. Has he boon given special training as an agent? “Explain,

U. S. Army Intelligence Training and Agency covert training fron
5 October through 25 Kovember 1953. Additional covert training at
Headquarters planned for April-May 1957.

How end ‘from whom doos he obtain information?

From indigenous student—youth elenents, with whon he mintaing :
Contact and who in turn have entree to Cutan Conmniet and revolu- i
tionary circles. ee

Is 1t proposed to pay subject @ regular ealary? If so, amount per”

Wook, uonth, ete. Explain any other methoda of payment, such as

exchange. commodities.

Subject 1s to receive $6,390 annually, plus allovances, vith provisions
+ for normal step increases, and promotion ven justified.

or comnt

‘teenta viateosver (not covered leevhere

in this form) been made to subject? Explain.
+ Bo.

foftn at se HeaeereteseCeneeestarate'e se geeeecieteeeeer ain a
Are subject's language abilities and other characteristics such
« that he could pags as a native of a country or region other than hie

ownt Explain,

Has native Quency in latyuage and would at least pass as long-time
resident and possibly even national of certain Central Americes,
+ Ganibbean countries, although has obviously foreign physical

. Characteristics, i it

9



Pied

51. What iz subject's social standing? Aristocracy, upper middle clase,”

lover middle cless, peasantry, otc.? tide.
Upper Middle Class

52. What are subject's personal habite? Liquor, drugs, eae, mistressea

“or lovers? = moe

sub Ject besos hettca) casedinadad be of anuere for other operations



Pee eee

57. How was inforzation in Part I obtained?

- From Subject personally.

58, Other miscellaneous operational data and comments.

Outstanding record led first to recomzendation that subject be
converted to staff status; following which it was determined that a
career agent designation would be more appropriate in his case.



roman hee Tron —~ ROSS L. CROZIER

Ross L. ch was born on 20 June 1522 in De Kelb, Tllinois and is the
eldest of five children of a respectable xiddle-clacs fanily. His parents and nie
two brothers and to sisters now reside in Sterling, Dlinois. Crozier rec

©‘ his prinary and hieh school eduction in De Kalb and entered the U.S. Arar in
1910, later transferring to the Arcy Air Corps, He served us an operations end
Antellirence specialist, first in the China~India-Barma Theotre ami later in
Penana. Crogior was diccharged from the service in august 19
the grade of Technical Sergerzt, After his discharze, Croz
three months as @ laboratory techniciun. in the Sterling (Illinois) £11ico—Ze)
Corporation and then returned to the Canal Zone to marry Argentina CORDS Ci
a Costa Rican rirl in December 1945. He then worked about four nonthe
a3 a stevedore. and labor forenen in the Canal Zone. In April 19L6 he
revenlisted in the Air Force in the Canal Zone, {roa which he o2s diScharged
three years later in 1949 at his previous grade of Technical Sergeant.

worked about

Crozier becaze an Azancy contract agent on 1 Ji He was origimally
scheduled to be used in Panaza but was asei “AKOID Project in Costa
Rice insted. While there he successfully hardled a high level penetration of the
Coste Rican Communist Party, In 1953 he was sent t> Feadquerters for treining,

(and in 1954 he wes assigned to PBS!CCESS for a brief period. In July 1954
he signed a new centract in Washington wherety he became the new principal

SECRET

Lof- ORT]

}
i
{
i



Sepencnara ic 228

SEBEL Bei

"of 32 years of age. He is athletically inclined and has been, and is at

“ possesses a great deal of integrity, honesty, intelligence, and

- obtaining extra spending money while going to school.” The Chief of Habana

SECRET

agent of Project #)HODARCH, He is unde> student cover and is actually
working for his BA desrce at the University of Habana, for which he hes
azpr-ximately 1 nore year of academic work to complete, ?

“Crozier has a healthy aspoarance and appears to be ebout (23) instead @

present, interested in organizing and participating in intra-murel
athletics. He is happily married and the father of two children, He

resourcefulness. His chief hobby, eside from sports, is photocraphy. He
has made quite a study of picture-taking and hes developed a portrait
Photo technique xhich he has found useful in his work and as an aid to

Mission and VHD have a strong feeling thet this wan will perfora his duties -
in a superior aener and will make ‘HPHOUARCH a valuable and worthwhile
project.



DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE Ko.

jOTsPATcH On souRCE COC. S¥waDL WO. foate

SOURCE Cave ToRYM yo info. Evaluation

Jenoss acrearto to mis F:

PERTINENT _INFORWI

THERE IS A PES’

OF TEIS 201 BALD t-



“PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST
ida 1960

24, nave is sensitive, obtain 201 avaber froo m1 Coa-r
o Om a separate form, enter the wl nueber and complete Section IT

SECTION 1

[_ [aor sesirve fie le 585K /
“ERS Pat AT at Pe Ross Letra”.

NAME VARTANT

SOURCE DOCUMENT

(widdtey Cittey

2 (baer) (Fieety

aA ara oy . POEs

SECTION 11

poor

sor


INSTRUCTIONS: Form must-he-typed-or printed ii Black Wasi

“SECTION fr List 201 number, name and idemulying data in the spaces provided. All know

sppticabite) must be listed. Wthe identifying data varies with the alias used, a separate

are unable w complere,

SECTION It List eryytonym oF pseudonym, if anigned. Herue name is sensitive, obtain 201 number from 201 Control Dest and comscte
‘Section I and Section IL. Ona “Separate form, enter the 201 number and complete Section I and Section 1H. Submit cach form separasety.
SECTION Ith, To lie completed in all cases...

SECTION!
WA 1 [torte socaacr



“co CUM INTERNAL USE ONLY m0
N see eee eee
ao (rhea ied ny :
z —_RERSORALITY (201) FILE REQUEST. = coe =
is TO Toa H enon :
assess
ine RI/ANALYSIS SECTION a = 1-5 ay 957- oe [oo i
e lrRom an FOO HS. TREHONE
4 RI/CO__Amal4a Superfisky 2301 L mer : -)
£ | aastauctionss: Form must he typed or pried in bork letter, : '
FT srenion Lis 201 number, name and identifving data in the spaces preniced, AM Known aliases and variants (including maidea name.if | > |
£ | Shptrable) mun ge fisted. Ifthe idemufying date varies withthe aise used, a separate fort must fe wned, Write USRNOWN for ems |
E | are unatie to complete
5] sterion tt: Lis cryptamy or preudonym. itasignrd. WFtrue name is teasitive, tain 201 number frum 201 Control Desk and complete :
; Section I and Section II. On a separate furin’ enter the 201 number and complete Section I and Sevtion ITT, Submit each form separately. rs i
i SECTION In: To he completed in al eaten : ;
; ome
5 SECTION! I
J Fe. 77 seiner Boca — ff
: i weimuma 4G 89 91 patti |
‘or Fea Lory Tale ay t
L. ; 4
7
i |
i i
H
' :
{ i
}
H eta
| |
i f
} es AN oS *Y ara abner
| L= beeiee[ 22] USA _| Diinois Cal ae a
7 ‘GeaiPATON FOTION - OPCS CODE

toate,
TERNS 831 oe prion witore,

i
eae



Or Zeb:
. afta |
~ 4 *

Ree
IR
pant



~ CONPIDENFLAL ~
: SECRET

es - costae ~--Whea Filled In) ~~

(date)

few of 211 File on U.S. Citizen _ eisiidases :

In accordance with the DD's notice of 9 December 1974, I have reviewed : |
the 201 file on CRC? e- LER (surname) (201 nuaber indicated below),
and have determined that it can most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

Should be closed. (If this category applies,
affix Records Officer -stamp.) cae

Unwitting collaborator. OI Code A7. ear
Explanation: >

Witting collaborator. OI Code Al.

Potential witting collaborator; date opened: Poi
OL Code A2. aa

OI Code A3.

C] Former witting collaborator (relationship terminated). ;
i C] Potential witting collaborator never contacted. OI Code Ad. ot

j Counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelligence or
security service). Of Code AS.

All others. OT Code A6.

| Signed 63 ) wa tA)
(name) (citfe) ompgnent, feed
This assignment of catego! s been entered into is ao
Yi id
wo ey
inte tas) (ate) !
H
| Thie document is a permanent part of this file. 201-_ /6 &&¥)
CONRIDENTLAL 4
SECRET E2 IMPDET CL BY 061475
i (when Filled In)
| |

i pte



Se ea OM one rors teres
{iiaiereyrestet)

Be aeaneeee eran 32—-
po

o o o 0.

1 pava-rms emoue

itt Bozphyz «= FIRECTOR_ _ BS0GL3
sof: re / Ba, pal, oa bissem ory

re x Yor fa 7 eenenro PER

{LIMAy auto! | SANTIAGO. BUENOS AIRES. REXICO city
eee eae

INFO y 0

REF: DIRECTOR betas {BEING RELAYED MEXICO CITY? Is] ¥

3. IN REFINEMENT OF_REF_REQUIREMENT-GUERY-UHETHER-ADDRESSCES

j HAVE AN ASSET uno IS ETHNIC CHINESE WITH LATIN AMERICA ORDINARY

( PASSPORT WHO COULD APPLY FOR-A PRC TOURIST VISA. IF YES. PLEASE

HAVE ASSET CONTACT PRC EMBASSY AND ASK IF THEY WOULD ISSUE TOURIST

VISA AWD HOW LONG IT WOULD TAKE BEFORE ASSET COULD OBTAIN VISA. ¥
2. ME ARE TRYING TO DETERMINE WHETHER PRC EMBASSY WILL ISSUE.

VISA FOR TOURIST PURPOSES TO SINGLETON TRAVELERS OF ETHNIC CHINESE

| ORIGIN WHO ARE NATIVE OR NATURALIZED LA CITIZENS UHO HAVE NO RELA

TIVES IN CHINA. ¥ :

: 3. IF PER ABOVE AN APPROPRIATE ASSET CAN BE IDENTIFIED. UE B
WOULD CONSIDER REQUESTING STATION CONCERNED TO LAUNCH HIM ON A SIMPLE:

OPS SUPPORT MISSION TO PRC: I-E+. TO COLLECT INFO ON PRC DOCUNEN-

TATION CONTROL BASED ON SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS TO THE ASSET BEFORE

LAUNCH. ¥

OATES BGCYANUARY 75
ORIG: JACK/ KOUINOTO/YET
ONT: CHAGCEA

ext 423)

° Gnseecarom + REPROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE }S PRONIBHED
SECRET i i
Siar nn nn REELS IY JATIN USA err

yperreo



os eicisshcbrasssegnae Jat
on 7 wessace peseamnes marees

_. parector. |. aed ae
ose | i
i Denn

4
4. PLEASE ADVISE BY 34 FEBRUARY. £2, TAPDET od

#REQUEST ADDRESSEE STATIONS NOTIFY H@S IN ADVANCE OF ANY UPCOMING

TRIPS TO THE PRC BY ITS OVERSEAS CHINESE ASSETS i:

COORD: OTS/AB - THOMAS KLINE {DRAFT}
AC/LA/M ~-Re U. STONE {DRAFTE

if DC/LA/NU - Jet SSY {DRAFT}
tessa {FOR} C/LA/SB - __| {DRAFT}
rer es ey aps
i LAL THS ~ (GE Pt Gpe

: DATE:
[ORs
Jy os users

ep

a x
ade {chicfs LA 5
fine esaana ormeee cooemmares orrecase
H noe REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PAOMIBITED

| SNe tnt A nen cnt oa

eo
co



corer

en

Pe ce aenaneonoe Soper
i

i

i

i

iia

i

|

i
{

nL

_ Qeicelat Where
j-—-77°S4_3#7_ ROM ay YF.

|
|
|

|
|

i

Satake AAR Re a Nett



22_hse.70_

T2PW Ain Ban MD
Lte sw 27s~ 27 Mee AS

BOI DEEL.

|tASA fas Mba, Sp eet i cs
TRS 63 AB Pag Sd. oe

LTRSA 974 opal 5. eal
TZ CA Besfoy. —

ove th

a : = passe accu

1 Smesemnmamen one 8 Snake i RET RAMNE ASOS RO Me cem eA Sinemet Rn

rm



Chief of atatton, San Jono ceed

ee heting Chicf, Wi |
; : |
} RU FOID i
i FOFSs Slee OSA,

De TE tabO5 :

recoint of refarerca 1,, wiich te ssy the leact, sheda comsYioreble, mitb=
nonted lipht on this ererotion, Thin wes @ nest weleore clarification of Fi

H 2, -Roadecartere files heve fort teen adeiraly eugnonted thregh tha
}
} nany of our questions conserning HVAIOTD,

i

2, (ron hie return to Headquertern, Pennie E,. COPELAND semorte! your
Gosire to heve MUFASOID aten o row eentrect, Tt fe mopzasted Ja-this regerd
thet yer furnich as coon ne “nasible eny provisions which you vish ts recomend
for ireicoion in the contreet, Seb reesmmentotions will of course be in cone
\ forelty vith Sec, 22 ef the Temlations governing cantrect arentc, not

eereor agents, It would be most advantecenus to suisit such a contreet for
consideration simitencosaly vith o requsst for renovel of ths oremticn st
the ond of Februxry 1957,

3. Toletive to your question in peragrech 9 of reference a., ct
cont tina, TRase6S5 ts the current ac-roved varsion of the extent if
OTD" ororetianal sctivitios. Tt ie fircty believed that these restrite —
€tons vill be renoved wien, fn Fetrusry 1962, this cveration will be dors
- for renenl by the Staff which t=resnd the curtailment, It is urpet eee
. your cuarterly revicw for the ceriod ending 31 Deeenber 1951 you cive
querters the bonefit ef exsther svecific dete{ied resort, ft thet tino, vw
will slso cotett 6 rocurst for increased eslery for HUAKOID,

stand! S

i4ag

g
i

WH, H, WHEELER, SR,
By J. C, Bonnet.

JR, Wy RASTEFTER

7 Qe. st

Do - 160857

Bes



FROM : Chicf of Station, San José

~SUBJECT: cenrra= Operational ~
seecric— HUMANOID Project
Ref: TRSW-685, TSA-1056, WASH 14671

1. TaSW-685, which advises thet the expiration date of L
this_project-has-been-vetermined-to-be 29 February 1952, was a
received several days after the forwarding of TRSA-1056, which
recommended that subject te considered for czreer agent’ ststus. Al-
though TRSA-1056 furnished certain of the data requested by head-

g quarters, the foilowing additional information, queries and comments i
aH are set forth with a view to facilitating a final evaluation of the
“in Project.

: 2. Pursuant to the approval contained in TRSW-655,
dated June 29, 1951, HUMANOID has been and is currently acting as Fe
cutout for HUMANIST-2, as well as for HUMANKIND-1 and HUMANKIND-3. cil
It is therefore not clear whether paragraph 2.b. of TRSA-685 is to be i 7
interpreted as a new restriction on his activities which is to be placed ’
into effect at this time. In other words, is headquarters’ approval
of the suggestions contained in TRSA-950 now withdrawn? . :

3. As discussed in TRSA-950, assistance was extended
HUMANOID in setting up a photography and photocopy shop on the fringe
of the downtown area. Funds formerly used for rental of a safehouse
were applied instead as rental for his photo shop, with.the purpose
of providing a safe meeting place between HUMANOID and HUMANIST-2 and
to provide a more accessible spot for the processing of KUMAI!KIND ’
material, Farly in July 1951, after two or three weeks experience
with photostating HUMANKIND material at the. studio demonstrated the
unsuitability of the arrangement, HUMANOID resumed his photostatic
work in his own ho: Tre studio has continued to serve as a meeting
Place for HUMATIST-2. fie following consideraticns entered into the
decision to discontinue processing HU:ANKIND-1 and 3 material at the
photo studio: 1). The conspicuous nature of the equipment ina srall
shop; 2) the security risks caused by the prezence in the studio of
HUMANOID's local employee; and 3) the lack of any secure storage
space for comprozising material E

Cr1-16 8 FFF

a
4. Since the dispatch of TRSA-1056, HUMANOID has been
notified by hia photographic assistant that the latter is resigning»

a

i) enfeg flol dan 1B -6

rows mo,

jo 51-2BA



jcate a Competen
can afford to pay. The above ts, plus unfavorable fi
tte recent financial enalysis of his business, :ha
i °° to close the photograph shop at the end of No

ofa
ve convinced HUFARCID -
verber. —

5. In connection with pararraph 2.4. of TRSW-685, witch
states that HUMANOID nust discontinue using his kome to reproduce

the material obtuined fro: HUMATZIND-1 and i SKINE~3,' the following - -
tetion is set forth,

ad.

i

Sng re piety en

&



aay ey
project,—it-is not deemed advi a is time to_install_-HUFANCID—
=——in—a-new-s2Sehouse to process | KIND-raterial. Accordingly, A
“-~ headouarters avvice is requested as to whether HUMANOID Gay continue
7 using his hcuse for the next few ronths, or whether this operation
st should be suspended imsediately, inasmuch as no Buitcble alternate ~~
wee eee ---—-¢utout has been located to date. .

7. In reply to your request for cornent on the Sulary
increase for AROID recommended by the forter Chief of Stetion,
Please be advised that the writer concurs in the recommendstion. As
indicated in TRSA-1956 end. THSA-999, this arent hae been living ona
very close finzncial marpin and hes been ewcre of the recommended
- aise for some months. It is conceivable that_he_has_taken_the_ratse.
+ -possibicity int consia tion in his personal financial arrangements.
: In any event, ould headcnarters cecide to terminate subject, it is
recommended that several months salary te autnorized as e ter-ination
; bonus in order that there will be no likelihood of security consider-

6..In-view of headquarters inteiti
a

ations erising from subject's nossibiy over-extenced financial position.

This bonus paynent is believed justified by subject's lonz tenure of
service, :

8. With repard to varsrraph 3 of TuS¥-S85, there have
been no changes in subject's cover und current odes of: contact and
communication frou those set out in TRSA-95.. [UhANIST-2 makes a
weekly door-slot drop at night at the photocraphic studio, and a live
Geeting takes place at the studio approximately three nights a‘nonth,

« with safety-danrer signals being utitized. In eddition, HUKANOID
meets once or so a month with HUGCER, either at her howe or at the
studio. HUMANKIFD contacts remain the seme. My contacts with HUMANCID
have taken place at iis home, in amrk, in a local pension, at ny
home, and in coffee bers on a stcezered schedule of about once a week.

fee 9. with reference to YASt 14671, =lease te advised that,

“© abeolutely no com-itments. have been made to subject, and, on the
contrary, hints have been crompeé t> zim of 2 ocssible curtailment
of funds which might require discontinuing certzin operations here.
Wo difficulty is articinated in terminating subject uron receipt of
final instructions from headquarters.

10.. with further reference to WASH 14671, your attention
is respectfully invited to the following headquarters files which
reflect opinions and evaluations of subject by other staff personnel:

| TZPA-365 Part II “Subject's superiors regerd this man as
highly dependable.* -

TZPA-365 Part I “Subject's immediate superior is Lt. Col.
5 wm. R. PORIFS, Director of intelligence,
CAIRC, who recommends subject highly.”

Picea)

SCR oa

i



seeebisuattet,

SRCURITY INFC

Space

TRSA-1084

"Subject—is-considered to be extrenely
and-intelligent, which, coubined with_

experience, qualify him for a wide range of- © < ~~ --——}-—~
“assignnents."

“..-services have been of considerable vulue to :
: operations. The Greats which he handles are the .

5 most productive of those now being used by this

5 station, and hic manorenent of these informants

hes teen excellent from both an information and

security viewpoint."

\ FRGAHEL6."...bis interrity, Secretion, and industry
j cannot be too highly commended, and. we feel that
be £8 erinently enited for steff or cover employ=
. . Bent in any capacity deered com:ensurete with
intellectual and other abiiities.7

i TRSA-860 *...the services of this arent re extrenely
f valuable to this station."

services of this arent continue to be
dy viiuable..... In view of itis inportiunce
to this station, hi ality anc his willingness
to devove time to .the work when needed, it is
recom-enced that he te considered for a raise in | ; {
Fay...”

TRSA-999

fs
aS TRSA-641 "...his experience end abiiity is such that he +
eculd probibly be of use to the organization :
anywhere in Latin inmerica." |

: . li. The sbove file history, plus cpproximetely three
montis okservation and direction of HUMANOID served 4s the besis for my
recommendetiun of career sgent “Spotus. Pa

12. At tne risk of laboring the point, an: solely on the -
basis of information available here, it appears that HUHANOID has pro-
vided valuable service in the past, that he is currently en important
factor in the operstional structure of this stction, and that he
possesses certain potential for future use by the orrenization. In
this connection, it is noted that headquarters inquired sone time ago
(TRSW-641) whether subject would be interestec in woring for the
organization in another country. Although it is realized your interest
in this possibility may no longer exist, for your inforzation SANOID
has stated that he would go to any other Latin American country, in 4
any capacity, on short notice. : é

13. The instant cispste: is respectfully subnitted for your
information and in resvonse to your queries. It is to’ be emphasized
that headouarters desires with regard to vodifying or terminating this
_- project will be followed implicitly. 5 « :
os 2G ROO G FFT
= : SEU: James K. Russo



are cd

OUTGOING CLAssiries-mtssaGe————-—-——

— CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

nscous eGR Gloauati one Pace No. ee
ie SAN JOSE . ROUTIN H
: POLICY COORDIRATION/ Me Lo
— SPECIAL OPCRATIONS : 8 NOV 51 :
i Coxrimsarion,  WHD [A=2) OUT 87230

IR A3-4), AD/SO.(S), OPS (6), PLANS (7
[ts atdbereiieeees:){ atk Ay! eth (6), PLaus (7),

Ro Paraphrase Not Required. Handle os SECRET Correspondence per I'sse. 51 (D 0A AR-380-5

~ WASH. 14671,
TO: SANJFG cee CITE: WASHFG _
RE: TRSA~1056 :

WAKE NO COMMITMENTS RE FUTURE STATUS SUSUECT.AT PRESENT
HAVE NO PLANS CONTACT HIM HERE.HGS FILES DO NOT REFLECT BASIS
is YOUR ENTHUSIASM SUBJECT'S USEFULNESS THIS AGENCY. HQS FAVORS
L aes CONTINUING PRESENT STATUS.

|
|
i
1
|
|
I
H
i
i
H

“Der /orer)

Web. GRESHAM inne ga _ Re RASTETER

‘TICATING omriceR,

- TOD: 23512 8 NOV St SECRET Corr Na. .
H ane fF IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE ie wo

qeoe


SECRE:
secuaiy INFORMATION =

~ 2 November 1951

MEMORANDUM FOR: MR. RASTETTER AND ¥R. BONNET i i
FROM: ‘Paul P, Paxton
SUBJECT: HUMANOID; Career Status

1. Ido not feel that this mnts position in the political
and social life in Costa Rica lends itself to our need for a
career agent in that area, His financial position negates his
accessibility to high-level information, and our reciirements
for Costa Rica should not be satisfied through outright subsidi~
zation of an agent in order to place him in a Position of influ-
ence, His wife's knowledge of his work for us is lamentable and
her Costa Rican background with substantial local political ties ©
should be sufficient reagon to be: any further consideration on !
our part for increasing his Inowledge of our operations. Admit.
tedly, he has performed a satisfactory service for the San Jose
station, tut his efforts are not so vital that his termination, in

the event he decides to sever connecticns with us because of his
failure to achieve more prandnent status, wo1ld be a permanent blow
to our effectiveness there. “With respect to his knowledge of
future possibilities with us, ve cannot be held responsible for
unauthorized commitments that may have been made by the previous
Chief of Station. ;

~ 2. The current status of HUMANOID should be established in
line with TRS - 685.

wH/PPP/te
2 Kovember 1951



~~ DibvaTCH NO.

. TRSA-1056

pate:__22 October 1951 See yeniriegees| aussie

“ i if
ra SUBJECT: cexerac— Operational ‘
; srccric— Humanoid

Ref: Field Memo 218 , |

. ~1. Serious considerction hes been given to the
suitability of Huanoid for cereer agent status, and in this connec-
tion, it is to. be noted subject is partially aware of the possibilities
of career agent stetus by virtue of a discussion with the former
Chief of Station. ; :

i
|
|

‘a 2. It appears that Humanoid fills the requirements set :
out in reference mexorandum, as follows: i

b. His existing cover is well established and believed to be

durcble. He has been attending tke local university for i .

vt over two years; he tuilt and owns hie own home in Costa Rica;
7 he is married to a Costs Rican end has two children born here;
ang he kas a poinz business in the form of a photographic !
shop wnich provides an excuse for additicnal income. te

i a. Iumanoid.
t

SOI objectives assigned to Eumanoid include supervised
direction of Comrunist Party penctration (Humanist-2); super-
vised direction of Postal Intercept Project (Humankind);
direct provision of information emanating from local university
and intellectual circles cf which subject is a meaber. Aizo,

* subject forcerly cirected attempted penetration of: the Comu-
nist Party women's"front® group (Hugger).

It has been noted that subject's efficiency and productivity
have been hampered by financial considerations in the past.

He has had unusually heavy medics] bills, and the rising cost
of living in Costa Rica has. presented economic problems in

view of his nodest income. It is felt that subject has
valuable potential for expanding his operaticns uncer the status
of career agent. With the rerovel or partial rewoval of
economic pressure, subject would be able to devote sdditional :
time to the exploitation of numerous personal contacts in : i
labor, government, religious, and political circles. He is a]

oef-/6 TEL:

a

ar 51-28A : 8 Bhd aici _ 7 -



R the geopraphy-
——~and political trends in Costa Rica. To date, subject has
confinec his activities mostly to cutout and cirection; i t
however, it is believed that with additional freedom he could t
successfully encupe in spottine, recruitnent, reneral inves= H
tigation, and independent recorting.

e@. Subject has discussed his desire to send his wife and two
children to bis family in the United States late in October
for a 60-day visit. He would then like to travel to the
United Stites hinself in late December for a sricf
with his parents in Illinois, This would be his first visit
hone in several years and would srovide an excellent cppor-
tunity end cover for headquarters contact, eitner in liiinois ‘i
or Yeshinztoa, at which time forvalities and necessary ; i

: training could be accomplished. (NOTE: ” This’ planned trip

~ of subject cay tempcrarily interrupt contact th Hurmanist-2

ond Hurankind, as a suitetle interim cutout hes not yet been . i

developed; but experience has shown tht procuction fron !

both sources practically dies out over the Christuas ond Hew |

Year holidays in this country. ©

: 3. In connection vith Parapraph e. above; it is to be
noted that the travel plans of subject's wife h:ve been complicated
by advice fron the Exbassy Consular Section. that the Immigration
authorities at the cert of entry into the United Stetes may cenand a 4
$500.CO U.S. bond in substantiation of her intent to return to Costa i
Rica after the 60 days. This station is therefore consicering.
advancing subject U.S. $500.00 in order to enable him to present the
bond if it is demanded and to obviate the rossibility of nis spending
several hundred collars in travel money for his wife to 2 port of
entry ond return to Costa Rica if entry were denied. This money
would not be used by subject for any other purpose anc would be re-
turned to staticn funds after successful entry of his wife into the
United States. i

: 4. In view of the fact that this Station has no basis
mo for comparison with regard to possible salary firures which might be

“ °° offered subject if ccreer arent status is approved , no recommendstion
in this rerard is being made. However, it is pointed cut that subject
has worked for the orrenization for almost four years, thet his
efficiency has been excellent, his rrasp of intelligence requirenents |
above average, his potential ettractive, and that his present position
in the operational structure of this Station is of major importance,

5. It is requested that this Station be advised if you 3
are interested in considering subject for czreer agent stitus. . or
If so, please advise whether contact will be had with subject while .

Faecal



r ,
Page 3 on SECRET a TRSA-1656 :

United_states.._Also wd the ‘governnent-reinbursé—
Bubject for travel experditures for his tri
hort time: spoosibiere

nay be worked out. _ ast

6. It would be apprecisted if a reply to the recommended
salary incresee of subject could be race available. (See TRSA-999
of July 1 and TRSA- 1037 cated Septenher 28, 1951.)

:
H

James Kk. Russo

rors


vate: 28 Septenber
Chief-of-station, San José ; '

SUBJECT: cexcran— Operational

eee Srecirc Humanoid Project

1. In connection with a re-examination of the security
factors of. this Project, a’ pre-arranged visit to the home of
Humanoid was made by the writer. As Previously reported, subject. :
has constructed a secret dark room. under the. floor of his house. | ;
and processes the production from the Humankind Project ix tais :
, Work room. It is therefore necessary that certain comproni si: . ‘
Material 1s retained overnight by Humanoid, and, at present, this
ept in a wooden desk with a cheap lock, Although

It is therefore requested that heedcuerters
ng a small wall safe with a combination lock for + +
: he above-mentioned dark room. It would be possible . H
. to sink the safe into the concrete wall, and even if complete con- i
cealment were not possible, the safety of the material would be i
“) greatly enhanced. Suitable safes are not available locally, but
it isknow that Renington Rand markets a small strong box with a
; combination lock (price about $20.00) which would be ideal.

3. I would appreciate receiving your opinion in this
matter inasmuch as other measures must be taken in the event a. safe
, Cannot be made available. : i

“he Inasmuch as Humanoid is aware of the Proposed sala

* Fase recommended by the former Chief of Station in the Cuarterly
Report dated Aurust 17, 1951, information as to the status of this

recommendation-is requested.
afl Russo

=p revi 7
Qor-/b 6FE/

CLASSIFICATION



San ceed Chief of Station, San José _

SUBJECT: coxmmm— Operations

srearc—-  Hunanoid . }

Ref: Memorandum given writer by Zachary T. Cady in Panama

1. Humanoid acvised that his uother-in-law, Sra.

_. Dora Calderon_de :CORDERO, -has-no-relationship with the family of
former President Raf2el Angel CALDERON Guardia. Kuranoid advised
that his mother-in-law was friendly with the CALDERON family years
ago, but has had no contact with any of the family or the Calderonista
Party since the-revolution. ‘This woman immigrated to Costa Rica

H as Dora INIKEN from Europe, and as it is customary for immigrants t

: and illegitimate children to take upon themselves the name of the i

r President, Dora INIKEN changed her name to CALDZRON. Humanoid stated

: that she has no political connections whatsoever ana is sympathetic

to whatever administraticn is in power at the time. The information
oy in the referenced menorandum was originally written by Eumanoid

bier three years ago and has no application to the present.

2. Regarding Humanoid's associates, Sr. and Sra.
i Miguel CORRALES, Humanoid stated that he has not seen CORRALES for
h - over a year since CORRALES is in Guanacaste Province. It is true
: that CORRALES was a Fipuerista during the revolution, but he is no
longer sympathetic with’ FIGUERES.

- Humanoid's intelligence activities are known to

Pe 3
his wife, who has been of assistance to him in said activities’ on
various occasions. However, Humanoid stated that his mother-in-law

has no knowledge of these activities.
Eugene T. Roddy

aris 51-28 A



HUMANOID :
Technical Surveillance in Costa Rica

HUMANOID ig an American agent used as a cut-out in several
San Jose operations. He was employed in the technical surveillance on
the home of Juan Bosch, as one of the two monitors. He also handles
the photography incident to the HUMANKIND project, which work he —
.. Performs.in his own quarters: ~(Thi: may now be pérformed away from
his home, but until very recently it was done at home. )

‘HUMANOID's PHS shows the following points which |
may be able to clarify:

(see TZP-A-365, Part 1)

}
}
i
\ i
5

1. His wife is related, through her mother, to the family of
CALDERON. This might be a connection with the
are alleged to be the group of Costa Ricans respon
bombings early this year.

"Calederonistas" who
sible for mysterious

2. Subject's mother-in-law,

who resides with him, is described
as follows: "strongly inclined to Sr.

Calderon GUARDIA and Leo CORTES
during their respective regimes in Costa Rica, and she is now (Oct 1948)
enthusiastic about the Junta Government of Jose FIGUERES. However,
she takes no active part in politics."

3. Other friends and associates of his wife are: Sr. and Sra.
Miguel Corrales (San Juan Tibas Costa Rica). Miguel Corrales wasa

radio operator and intelligence operative for Jose FIGUERES during the
Costa Rican Civil War in the spring af 1948. ;

Jose FIGUERES and Juan BOSCH were the target personalities
of the technical surveillance. FIGUERES made the statement that "one of
his boys told him all about the surveillance."

From the above circumstances,
intelligence activities are probabl
law, or his friend, CORRALES,
the source through which-the sur
this informally with!

» it appears possible that HUMANOID's
y known to either his wife, his mother-in-
and that one of the three could have been

veillance was blown. Would you discuss
please?

J. C. BONNET

Sof lbreri

SECRET



FROM Chief “of Station, San José

‘SUBJECT: cexeru— Operations
srearnc— Project Humanoid

Ref: TRSA-925

Gentle tcd -.-Enclosed- herewith {s Part II~~ Operational Information -
of the Personal Record Questionnaire for Project Humanoid.

Eugene T. rochy



i SECRET
PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE wy

-- Part II = ‘OPERATIONAL INFORMATTON

TRS_/rne/_26

5

|

38

: om

5.

h

Part 11 of PRO is classified, must ve filled in by the Case Officer and is xn:
be shown to subject.

Headquarters will not ve asle to provide an Operational Clearance unless it receives
answers to all questions on page 1 of Part 1 (Items 4 to 12), and to all questions of
Part 18 (items 36 to $8).

emergency these answers, keyed to Items 1 to 12 by number, ard sit
“May be cabled to headquarters, followed prompi ly by pouch with complete c2za.

Fully completed PRO mst be sent to Headquarters as Soon as possible, two copies of
Part 1.(including copy in Subject*s “nandariting, if possible) and one copy of Pert 11.

Oata acquired later must be sent to Neadquarters in PRG format on a continuing tasis.

411 pages of doth parts will beer the.Peg number, conposed of (a) Station syrect
(b) PRO (c) number assigned consecutively by the field station; e.g. PGA/PRE/I3.

Could subject be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to

someone @lse for handling? To whom?

ane ade tage nner

BESS TI9e

i ae PE OE ga

ith sumary of part

36. Cryptonya Humanoid il

37. How, when and vhere vas subject first contacted or develoyea?

; . Subject was first recruited in Panama as Hydropathic in Novenber 1948
et and transferred to San José as approved Humanoid project, July 1949.

Subject could be turned over quickly to any approved cutout, though
at present he is himself acting as a cutout between Chief of Station
and Zosubegentetinate of subject's notivaticn

Subject motivated by his interest in intelligence work, desire to
.advance in the organization as a career, and its remuneration.

r



* "furnished. by subsect?.

Recruited and checked in Panama (see TZPA-365).

~~~ —hLy—What ‘control exists’ over subject at present? Bow can it bé increased?
Subject can be controlled through. dependence on salary, loyaity due to ~ i
American heritage, past U.S. Army service, and desire for a career in ;
this work--2ll are controlling factors, as well as his receipt of G.I.
school benefits.

42. Yor vhat service does he think he is working? What does he think

becomes of his information?

Subject is cognizant of identity of this organization.

43. Explain fully subject's past or present connection vith any

intelligence service.

oss} previously in U.S. Army Intelligence (see Part I, PRQ 26,
No. 25,

Ah. What type of information has subject furnished? What type is he
vest qualified by education and experience to furnish? Give

evaluation of information received.

Subject furnishes only information received as a cutout: from subagents,
. Communist Party activities and Caribbean revolutionary matters.

NES i iano nredetieecisis seca seatiie! send



_ FY __ TRS_/pna/_26.—

46. Bas he been Given special training as an agent? Explain,

U.S. Arny Intelligence training. .

{ 41. How and from vhom does he obtein information?

1 : E :

I Subject ‘acts as cutout for Humanist-2, Humankind-1, Humankind-3 ,
i and Hugeer.

i 48, Is it proposed to pay eubject a regular salary? If so, amount per
\ week, month, etc. Explain any other methods of Payment, such as
to

| ieteen fa exchange commodities.
i

i

Subject receives $,000 per month (approved TRSW-627)

Have any promises or commitments vhatscever (not covered elsevhere
4n this form) been made to subject? Explain.

Are subject's language ebilities and other characteristics such that he
could pass es a native of a country or region other than his own? Explein,

Ro,

Dl. What 18 subject's social standing? Arietocracy, upper ‘biddle class,
oa! lower middle class, peasantry, etc.? Upper middleeziivs,

9-



What are aubject!

Hi
he

‘or=tovers?

| ns e-sSocial-drinker;-very“Hoderately~— No gambling or nistresses,

" 53+ Evaluation of subject's character, reliability, security.

i All noted excellent.
|

54. With what other foreign pover vould subject be most likely to

: collaborate because of his ideology, obligation, ete.? Explain,

None.

55+ What special abilities, talents, or qualifications are Possessed by

subject which would conceivably be of value for other operations in
the future?

Subject knows Morse code and can send and receive 16 words per
_ minute at present, which rate can be quickly increased.

56. Attach samples of subject's signature and handwriting in all languages

Imown to him, also a recent, dated Photograph, and fingerprints.

. Photos forwarded with Part I. Handwriting and fingerprints being
pouched separately.

~ 57. How was information in Part I obtained?

Subject submitted information personally.

}
fr.

crear test sannitnadin gers nitions eal


TRS /pRo/ 26

Case officer



‘QTHFR FACTORS:

COUNTRY:
OBJECTIVES AKD TASKS:

Costa Rica

SALARY:

EVALUATION OF SERVICES:

EVALUATION OP

IWPOREATICN:

<-subagents.

SECRET

OPERATICHAL REVIEW

PFRIOD:

Wo change.

Subject was raised from 750 colones per month to
1,000 colones per conth, effective 1 March 1951.

Services of thie agent continiie to be-extrezely -

valuable as the princi
Subject al
information received,

comments drawn from lo
with local conditions.

TRSA-999

CRYPTO: Humanoid

31 March-1 July 1951.

pal cutout for three

so processes the

adding to it his own

ng personél acquaintence
Subject maintains a

good working relationship with subapents

necessury for their co:
unworried cooperation.

though very little is
of his subagents.

Reference is nade to TRSA95O. and TiSw-655
wherein subject's. operations,as planned by this

station and approved b:
out. These operations
outlined without incid
security of this agent

tinued trusted and

The information procured by subject is valuable

his own, but rether that

y headquarters, were set
have continued as

ent or danger to the

or this station.

Subject is devoting increasingly more time to

the coverage of mail i

stating, énd enlarging coverage of seme.
intelligence conscicusness as well as the trust

ntercepts, their photo-
The

he has built up in Kumanist-2 in reporting on

top level Communist ec
and has produced food
coverage. In view of
station, his ability a

tivities hes teken tire
results in effective
his importance to this
ind his willingness to

devote time to the work when needed, it is

Ti pay from=1, 000=colones-to=1, 500.
Subject is living frugally on his present -salary
and his G.J. subsistance.

that.subject be considered fora

had another child which was followed by com-

plications necessitating considerable hospital-

SECRET

se
aya rel

Kis wife Las recently



TRSA-F9D

TAs raise is recormended since it
to devote a sufficient

his work without being,

ich force him to look
At the present
200 per month.

ization.
will enable subject
anount of time to t
harried over expenses wi!
for additional outside work.
exchange rate $1,500, amounts to

eer



i

Ss

Cafol of Stettons San Joao
Clef, Foreign Vivicion T

Oprational
TERRAIN © GEACS?

Mp They TS

Je 4 carnfil otedy boo bean nods hy tre intorosted offices in
pee eg Neos celeron erp peace pea
purtaining to the rucen exrsutes of tho teotmtoal
Tho caste cf ettion vug ested am! divcussed by pou under paragraph 2

Of Wete7D is conmmmred ta by loads

ee Tike rocammnobions eontatnad in Taielly under paraxophs 25 3p

ead hare bareny wi

3e Your heniq. meters has o continuing intercet in tite entice
eater ani wuld Dee aie ae oe
Uhich would affoot citzer shusadly or otiawias tho imleuntstlon of
gor sug-poted plane

eee Dol IGF L71

Wy Uy HHEIER, IR,



ak faze,
» Air meee
al 2sSPATCH NO.
aT
taraues TRSA-950
ack
CLASSIFICATION. i
. ic) : Chief, Foreign Division T DATE: __ 7 June 195) —__ |
i" prom : Chief of Station, San José ne KARO eg
it tak H
|

SUBJECT: cenmu— Operetions
seecinc— Humanoid - Humanist

Ref: TRSW-643

t : 1. Inquiry made of Humanist regarding the statements

: . he made before the police during his interrogation reflects that i
he reportedly refused to testify before the police but made his
devosition before the Procurador as to his part in the technical
installation which implicated only the writer, and this only after
he wes told that Roddy had been identified. Humanist's testimony, as
well as the line of questioning to which he was submitted, revealed
the authorities’ concern and their efforts to ascertain whether he
had been engaged in or knew of any other similar installations on
any other people. This he denied and maintained that the only
instzllation was on Juan BOSCH. Humanist claims he made no mention
of Humanoid, and he believes the police know nothing about him.

t

i: 2.. Humanist's claims also tally with the account of

H his confession as given writer by Manuel VENTURA, Presidential aide.
{

Humanoid has been on the alert and has noted nothing of a suspicious
nature which. would indicate his activities being under observation
or investigation. This matter. of suspending his operations, as
suggested by headquarters, was discussed by writer with Elio R.
Langtry during his recent visit in San José and the following
“suggestions are made for headquarters' consideration:

a. Humanoid at the present time is acting as cutout and
chief agent for Humanist-2, Humankind-1, and Humankind-3. There
is no other agent at the present time to whom these contacts can
be given. It is believed that if these subagents ere allowed a
6-months vacation, they will become practically worthless when
picked up again and have to work for the money they have been
receiving, aside from losing interim information and developments.

b. In an effort to establish a more secure, as well as a

CLASSIFICATION


i
bu

TRSA-950

a business which he iv enthusiastic about and is a more natural
Place for Humanist-2 to make unobserved contacts. It also |
supplies Humanoid with a more accessible spot and efficient means
to photostat mail intercepts and return them to the post office.
in tine instead of com.uting back and forth from his home in

the suburbs of San José.

c. Therefore, it is sugzested that Humanoid's semi-weekly
contacts with Humanist-2, instead of being cancelled, be changed
to a weekly letterdrop, and a live contact once a month to take
care of salary payments and briefing: This letterdrop can be
effected by Humanist-2 passing by the photo shop at night and
dropping his messages through the slot in the door usually used
for after-hours delivery of films to be developed. The film
drop will be into a padlocked box, accessible only to Humanoid.

d. Regarding Humanoid's contacts with Humankind-1 and
Humankind-3, these are conducted in a thoroughly safe manner.
Mail extracted from postal channels by them is deposited in an
envelope and placed in a post office box. It is checked daily
by Humanoid, and if anything is there, it is removed, photostated,
and returned by him the same day. If anyone is noticed hanging
around the post office boxes, Humanoid does not go near the box
and returns later when the way is clear.

e. Another factor has erisen since the last dispatch which
has made this post office overation more secure in that the
Director of the Post Office is now beholden to Humanoid. In a
recent legal squabble noted in the press which was raised by a
local Com-unist complaining about the government confiscating
his mail from abroad, the government desired to prove that this

mail was Comcunist propazanda which they had a right to confiscate,
and the President therefore requested the-Director of the Post™
Office to furnish samples to prove this point. ‘With this "heat"
on him, the Director made a frantic appeal to Humanoid, who was.
able to procure these samples for him, which satisfied the
President, and for which the ‘Director was truly crateful.
Therefore, no trouble is expected. from this intercept operation
as long as the present personnel are being used, and ample warning
will be given Humanoid in advance of any change in the present
attitude.

3. Since it is believed that there is more to be lost
than gained by dropping contact with these agents, the above modifi-
cations of these contacts are respectfully submitted for
= consideration-and—deci sions==— = ssaneae 7

i
\
'
i
i



ee eee Lecpreel lw

Shbact
Chief, STB 21 May 1952
Chief, FOT J
HUYANOZD Project :

- |
‘1, In'accordance with conversations held betwen Chief, STC and

FOE and with Ur, Johnston of your office, the following noiifications - i
and additional data concerning this project are set forthe -

2, On $ Mareh 1951 a technical surveillance was installed on the
residence of Juan BOSCH, a Caribbean revoluti the Hy
services of | H
through HUWAdisT. HUNANULD and IWYANIST: carried on the monitoring in 1
shifts, but at separated intervals, “hortly thereafter, it-was noticed
that sone natives living nearby wore unduly interested in th: activities {
of ‘the nonitorin; house, and, at the same tine, aysterious bob axilosions 4
Were occurring in San Jose, HUMANIST loarned that the police had received [

‘ “a report that unkown persons were spying on the airfield, which adjoined
: : . the monitoring post, and periaps' were manufacturing the bombs. The sur= if
veillance was discontinued and the equipsent moved on 20 Varche !

iauiisiett al !



"| Ge Althouch no ovidene has besn resofved fron sq source viich t-+-E-
i would intieato IAD ban born comprotasé, the cited tation ina a c
i
i

beak instructed, a5 a pivtautionury noacae, to place HTANOID on
imetivs etatus for soproxinately oix moathse MIUAKIts salary will
contime curiny this period, which is goatee to 2 parit further study
and obsarvation of all ra-Sficat*
edditioml ctrencthenta: of Aion
Fesponcibilities with regen to 16: TOD, and MUALOD will
aoe be transferred to another Anericen cut (possibly 250G) or temporarily
suspendal, at the discrution of the station cliale |
H
|
|

7. Por discuszion with the Chief, S2C and str. Joimstan, it is
rocomuzrtod that the iLUAOID project be arrroved as sttoched hereto,
5 with tho understandin; tht its reactivation wll be depeatent upon
ew foworadle results af the mumanth period of chosrvations

READS : |

ta



STC /oco
Chief, FOr

23 February 1951

WUEAUOID

‘The

following ascwers aro keyed to your questionnaire dated

5 February 1951 concarning HUA:ODD:

a.
be

ce

ad:

f.

Sabject is an eetive agent.

He is used sabstantially the sanz as when clearanco
was ismeds

Subject hag not been used in comection with projects
other than originally contexplated,

411 information an subject's perzonal and operational
security has been subnitiad.

The operation has been considered excellent. The only
test of IRMANOID's security has been tha test of
evaluating his inforzation, md the ovaluation of his
reliability by the Chief of Stations

Thore have been fo operational or other changes in
tha status of this agent which have affected our
evalaation of this agent.



COUNTRY: Costa Rica
OBJECTIVES AND TASKS:
SALARY:

FVALSATICN OF SERVICES:

EVALUATION OF

; IW} ORATION:

OTHER FACTORS:
COMMENTS :

-of his time and effort

- from }750 to $1,000 per month.

SECR* .

TRSA-860
OPERATIONAL REVIEW . :

eke

CRYPTONYM: Humanoid

PERIOD: 1-:October-31 December 1950.
No Chanre. i

i
#750 per month. L

Services of this agent are extremely : =
valusble to this station. Aside from cutout < H
services in contacting subarents, he has been.- {
used on other miscellaneous investipstions

suitable to his capacity and has riven freely:

The information furnished continues to ‘be of.
Breat value to this station. eee Hers

No changes

As previously reported subject's plans to
transfer to Panama have changed, and he is
staying in Costa Rica to finish his schoolin;
Due to subject's services and the time he
devotes in performing then, as well as

plans at this station for making rreater
demands on his time, it is planned to

recomrend thet subfect's salary be increased 4

SECRET «© 23 Fé. 51
age Dey serees



CHIGP, STAFF "BD" 19 February 1951
CHIEY, FOT
Project Outine-—-IfZANOID

1. To complete the attached ficld project outiine, the folloving
diocraphical information is subsitted as required by paragraph hr

HUMANOID was born in 1922 in DeXalb, Illinois, USA, where
he attended high school frox which he Graduated in 19k0.
Subject joined tho United States Air Force in which he had
five years! experionce in general Air Force intellizence

. works Subject is presently living in San Josa, Costa Rica,
é where he has been attending school.

eae 2. This project dates froa June 19l7 in Costa Rica but subject mas
‘ em agent of ox Fanaa etation for about six tontno [wier to his aepareare
for Costa Ricas a

3e Sabject's reliability is considered excellent and his operational
services aro alco considered excellent, The value of this project,
including ths sub=agents, is considered to be of great value to our
Costa Rican missions

‘ 4. MUYAWOID, in addition to being a principal agent, is exployed
» as a cutqout for WUAUIST$2, WUGGER, and LUUKIND, Attached are field
‘ beatatg outlines for HUMANIST<2 and IWANKIND, which includes HAAM(INDel
and =3, Technically, HUAUIST=2,° HUME DD] and =3 are sub-azents and
therefore not required to have ficld project outlines subiitted. . The
original davelomont, however, of these agents was on an individsal
Brojoct basis, and the cut-out IEAUOID was later developed,

S. In Meu of a field outline for HUGIE, ‘the following ——
dn ecirdttteds kadai itd

i
|
|



6, Since the Cafef of Station has only direct contact with

_ HULANOID and not with the Sub=agents, ths project 49 considered as

ous project, the HUANOID Project. For @ccountin; purposes, horever,
the sub=agents are baine handled as:inéividual, agents althouss under
the control of the cuteout HEUHOD.

Te HUMANOID's salary if 328,00 a month and operating expenses
are about 266.00 a month, ‘



VD)

SECRET

JO: Chic, FDR 5 February 1951
FROM: ST7/6CO .

SUBCECTs HUMANOID

1, STO records reflect thet subject ves approved for
operaticnel usc under Opcretionsl Clearence # dated __

19. July 1949 mo

2. The cleerence ras tascd upen infcrrsticn available at
“that tire, It is desired to raintein a continuing or periodic
revier cf the security status of this person and the projects

vith rhich he has teen or may be associated.

3. Yeur ccrzents on the folloring points vould te appreciated. :
In the event field correspondence 1s nccessery to cbtein this :
inforsation pleese coordinets rith STC/000.

i
4
t
|

a. Is subject still in an operational status? If not
please indicate dispesition.

bt, Is subject being used in substentiglly the sane manner
as when clearance ras issued? If not please explain.

¢. Fas subject been used in conneeticn vith projects
other than origirally ccnterplated?

a. Bas any inforration beer reported affecting subjectts
persona) or operations? security status?

©. Has the orcration, including security tests of the
agent, been satisfactary?

f. Fas any inforration been ceveloped in connection vith
this or ether operaticns or have changes in existing ecnditions
eecurred vhich reuld affect your origin] evaluation of this agent?

“HERI Y Bact



aye cetetacerst

aay
“ ; C.
“pene fein 3-5 INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
SECRET Pace No.
SS
Fuow, SAN JOSE ROUTINE
SPEGIAL OPERATIONS 7 DEC. 50
To: / fel Aihandio
enon: - FET (1-293) . i IN 12657 _ :
“twvomuamoiPS0 (4-5) , STA (6), STB (7), STC (8), IID (9), S/C (10011—12)
Parophrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET | Correspondence per Pars, $1 (1) 0A AR-380-5 sin
. Jeae® fey
SAN 678 ot wn
: i : ki fe
TOs WASHF CITEs Sand ( 4
ia

RE; TRS A 756 :

HUMANOID PLANING PERMANENT TRANSFER TO PANAMA 1 FEBRUARY
REQUEST H#QS CONSIDER APOROVAL OF HU GY 1 JANUARY 1951 TO PERMIT
SUFFICIENT OVERLAP FOR ORIENTATION IN DUTIES AND CONTACTS.

oo.

fh Dor-l6'8 57)
rox!0112 7 DEC 50 SECRET conn 2Y
STIS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

sisi atcuttemeate



oA
4

SECRE

Y
TRSA-74,5
OPFRATIOVAL REVIEW

: CRYPTONYM: Humanoid

CCURTRY: Costa Rica PERIOD: 1 July to 30 Sept 1950.
OBJECTIVES AND TASKS: As set forth in TRSA-564.

approximately in April 1951, where he hopes to
continue his schooling and work for this
orzanization. He has had previous experience
esnsesrsite wey and contacts in Panama and can be highly
oer recommended for similar work there. A

;

}

SALARY: : #750.per month. i
EVALUATION OF SERVICES: No change. Bae
«EVALUATION OF Ho. change. |
(2°. INPORMATION: i
OTHER FACTORS: Subject is contact personally by Station i

; : Chief. ; '

Ht |

COMMENT: : Subject is contemplating moving to Panama |

i

: substitution for subject has been considered
\ : and is being processed.

Be Ryk. 50
Yol-/e r¢zy i



COURTRY: Coste Rica

OBJZ:TIVES AND TASKS:

SALARY:
* BYALUATIGN OF S3HVIVES:

EVALUATION OF
INFORUATION:

'
i
i
b
b

OTHER FACTORS:
COMMENTS =

> ean obteic.

‘SECRET |

TRSA-646

OPELATIONAL REVIEW i

SRYPTONYM: Husanoid

PERIOD: 1 April to 30 June 1950.
Objectives, tasks, sod tergets ere set forth
fa deteil in THSA-564.

$750 per meoth.

Services beve been cf conaidsrable value to
operations, The eceats which he heniles ure
the ost productive of these now being used
by this stetion, and his menegecent cf these
informants bes beea excellent, frcm both an
information snd a security stendpoint.

fhe informetion provided by the agents which
subject handles, 6 greet part of which is
owing to his oan industry end devotion in
their development, is essily the most valuable
produced by this staticn.

Bo comment.

No chenges ure contempleted in subject's
status. He is ocntempleting a nove to
Argentina scme time within the next two yeers
and hopes to contiave his present employment
fn thet country, end if possible to aeke a
career of this business in any capacity he
His integrity, discretion, end
industry camaot be too highly comzended and
we feel thet he ie eminently sulted for steff
or cover explcoyment.in any capacity deemad
cComsensurete with his iotellectusal end other
ebdilities.

PE Sicnete

BoQune so
Jor /68 FT]





e

SECREY

OPPRATICNAL REVIEN

TRSA-S85

CRYPTCHYM: Huszanoid

i COUNTRY: Costa Rice  Psyron: i January to 51 Maron 1950,

OBJECTIVES AND TASK3: Objectives, tasks, and targets sre set

SALARY:

EVALUATION OF
SERVICES:

EVALUATION OF

_ TREORWATION:

OrERR FactoRS:
comnts:

forth in detail in TSA-564,

$500 per wonth during the quarter under
Consideration, §750 Per month effective
2 April 1950,

Services hava been of considerable value
to operéticns. The gents which he handles
are the sost productive of those now being
used by this ststion, and bis maosgecent
of these inforuunts hes been excellent,
from beth en infcrmation and security
stendpoiat,

The information previded by the agents
whoa subject heatles, a great part of which
is owing to his own industry and devotion
ia their developueat, is easily ths most
valuable produced by this Stution,

Ho comaent.

No changes are contemplated in subject's
status,

81 hereg So
Sel-/érrrt



tie we, ena :
Fa rile ge ™ bis. tcH No,_TR3A-564
Sa a a

SECRIT

to ;Chief, Foreign Division T

Fe Li, (ob
fetes Vielen f i

From .: Chief of Stetion, San José

SUBJECT: cenmu— Operations aca

secre Project Hucanoid : ‘

Ref: TRSW~-447

1. In eccordence with verbal egreenent nade by the Chief of

: Stetion in veshington and formalized in referenced menorendua, the
: Zz, fcothly salery paid to Humanoid will be increased from the present
4 500 ‘to $750.60 effective 1 April 1950,

j U4

if H 2. “A revised "Field Project Outline" applicable to Project
i Humancid is subaitted herewith, in accordance with GOI No. 2.

3. Possible existing confusion with regard to our charging
cf expenses of Project Humanoid end allied projects for which
» Huzenoid supplies cutout services will be clerified in the near ,
future as revised "Field Project Cutlines" epplicable to these.
latter projects sre prepared end forwarded.

4. The sttsched "Field Project Outline" supercedes TASA-347. H

Bog

Elmer C. Mercer

Ls =
An Homenssd Sor Are

Bhat S00
Aol~/bISS/ 7
as a {

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION.

ateiste 51-28A



1

COUNTRY: Coste Rice

OBJECTIVES AND
TASKS

"SALARY

| EVALUATION CF
i SERVICES

.

EVALUATICN OF
INFOREATION -

OTHER FACTORS

“reproduction work required.

-of handling this agent,

TRS-A-506

QPHKATICKAL REVIEW

CRYPTONYN: Humanoid

PERIOD: 1 October to 31 December 1949,
—_

Tols agent provides catout services in
Connecticn with the penetraticas of
Venguerdia Populer ani also for the postel
Aatercept project. In connection with i
the latter he doss‘all of the technical
Ke 6lso
reports miscellaneous information which he
obteins from his school and business
Contsots, Project dates fron Juns 1949,

$500 per month. Increased fron $400 Noven-
ber 1949, :

Services have been of ccnsiderable value
to cpereticns, The egents which he

hendles ore the most productive of those
now being used by this station, end his

. Manogement of these {oformants has been

good, from both en information and a
security standpoint.

The 1Laforcution provided by the informants
of the’ subject has been valuable opera-
tionally and is considered generally
reliable, 7

‘Contacts with the subject ara nade ‘directly.

He is now attempting to cbtain a secure
Plece in which to meet HUMANIST-2, Other
Anforcants hendled by this ogent are
HUGGER, HUXANKIND-1, and HUNANKIND-3.

No changes sre contezpleted in the manner

t
$



OFFICIAL DISPATCH ©. |

= i I.
ACT jellies orsparcn no, TRSA~468 ; \
UM acta aie or 30a Foam ——— :

To : Chief, Foreign Breach T ~ DATE: _~ 1 November 1949 a

from ; Chief of Station, San José

SUBJECT: Generac. Project Humanoid
sreciric. Amendment to Contract

: i 1. Effective 1 November 1949 the culary of eee
the individual designated as Humancid was increased staat
€100.00 to a total of $500 per month. This action was tas
taken in consideration of excellent services, not in E

H time, but in quelity, in the management and direction

i of Projects Humankind, Humanist-2, and Hugger.

ne )

Elmer C. Mercer

Tey hoo. 49

Dor 168 FFI

deo


COUNTRY: Costa Rica PERIOD: 1 July to 30 September 1949

OBJECTIVES AND
TASKS:

SALARY:

EVALUATION OF
SERVICES:

” EVALUATION OF

INFORKATICN:

‘+ OTHER FACTORS:

+ » through this source, subject. will be eble to

_-Subject-1s_ccnsidered to de the-:nost

TRS-A-449

OPZRATIONAL REVIEW

CRYPTONY:: Humanoid :

(1) Cutout services, :

(2) Cosmunist penetration of local labor organ-
Azations end/or student groups,

(3) Discretionury reporting. and operstional

Pursuit of any end all intelligence information i
Coming bis way by reason of his normal daily H
activities, A !

$400 per month,

(1) As Hunsnkind cutout; Subject has continued

to handle this delicate and time-consuming

assignzent in a completely satisfactory manner,
As Hugger cutout: Although Hugger still

does not produce as we would like, it is not

ths fault of subject, who has devoted time

and effort to his educatisn and direction,

(2) Rather then employment or investigation

of prospective informents developed by subject

with regard to these objectives, we have

essigned subjeot the handling and direction

of Huseanist-2, We have every reason to believe

that he will do this. sstisfsotorily, and based

on the high-level infcraation which we receive

Proceed core intelligently to the coverage
of the topics assigned.

(3) Subject 1s proceeding slowly as directed
by us, end attempting first of all to iotegrate
the three projects with which he is charged.

Directly, subject hes yet provided little

information, That stecming from his projects,
however, is among the most useful end valuable
which we obtein.

None,

», Comprehension of. objectives,

loyee we have at the pr
point of view of actual present usefulness,
as well as thet of interest, industry, and

BeSENSITIZED 4 Oub.44

ver OH AB Doy- (6 PF Y-

” SBBITIIED



I

29 Soptanber 1949 ; !

i - Communist Orgmisers
‘REVERRNCEs ThS=655, WASH 5590, TRS-B-37 i

ds Erory effort ts being nade to confira with dotaile - or deny =
' ths information contained in TRS-655— ‘To sourco’of that. report, as
i Yell. 8 Mubbuby who 4g a personal friend of tho ori inal infornant, have

hing in sddition, tranaier of itmanist~2 to tho nanagemont of limanaid,
Hy bich cecurred this week, his provided us with.an additional seme of
: confirmation and Ibmanoia is necking ths oatter his Hoo 1 priority Jobe

H i” 2e Fo oupect to bo chile to oshle cur opinion of tho truth or falsity i
H of tho original informtion within tao wacks tino, and $f the story thon }
‘ appearo to have some basis in fest, all our resources will be exploited i

fer further details, -



OFFICIAL DISPATCH

vias___Air Pouch : orspatcH no. TBS~A-429

SPECIFY atm on BEA pouGN

CLASSIFICATION
To : Chief, Porefgn Branch T DATE: 13 September 1949
FROM =: Ghief of Station, San José, Costa Rica

SUBJECT: ceneru- Operations
seeciric. Spacific Operational Changes

REFERENCE: TRS-A-396, TRS-A-385

1. Certain rearrangenents involving three curreat
projects. of this office ere beiog made in order to produce greater
effectiveness and security. The projects involved are Humanoid,
Humanist and Humankind. 7 iaerrteareaaiasenet

id 2. The ower of the separate office used by Hunanoid
to process the caterial received through Projeot Humankind has
recuested that the. space be vacated by 15 Septeaber 1949. His

, Teasous are purely business end have nothing to do with our
operstions, Oa thet dete, therefore, our effects will be roved

° to 6 new locale, which is incidentelly aore desirable from the
Point of view of convenience snd security. The new "safe-hcuse*
will cost $400.00 per month, an increase of $275.00 over .that
paid for the former office, and is to. be charged to Project

3. To offset this increased cost bat principally to
Provide sdequate exploitation of Humanoiste2, that individual
will be turned over to. Humanoid for direct handling prior to
1 October 1949, Hunanist-1, whose sole functicn hes been to
Contact Hunsaist-2 and who hes received a salary of $250.06 per
month, will be eliminated on 1 October 1949, This arreangexent
“hes been carefully plenned end discussed with all concerned and
ean be made without security risk, It will provide Aoteliigent,
American control of our potentially siost valusble egent, and
eliminate the present cumbersome. cocmunicatioa and contact.
errangement. ae

-Humanxind effective 15 September 1949, : Pain.

j
i
i
1
i

7m ae
nations.

“, ues bese!

per

Elmer C. Mercer

DUE; 0-20 CLASSIFICATION 2of-/68 FTF



| ORCel Oceice

Via:__Air Pouch _ DISPATCH NO. TRS-A-403 : :

SPECIEV atm On Sta

KAPOK.. : fa
ctassirication 7
TO + Chief, Foreign Brench T ‘paTe:__9 August 1949
/FROM + Chief of Station, San José,Costa Rica

SUBJECT: cexera- Operations
specific. Operations] Date, Project Humanoid

REFERENCE: TRS-A-347 Z : :

The following operational data 1s forwarded in accordence with
Field Memorandum No. 6 of September, 1947:

1. Humanoid.

2, Cutout services with e lerge amount of pergonal discretion
permitted.

3. Subject is Considered to be extrezely reliable and intelligent,
which, combined with his past experience, qualify him for a
wide range of assignments.

Sen José, Costa Rica.

No.

He would, but at present is prevented from travelling by
personal arrangements which it would be inconvenient for
him to change.

All personnel are paid by as: Humankind-1, $100.00;
Humankind-S, $100.00; Hugger, $100.00 (monthly).

Yes,

t.
Humankind and Project Hugger, Aside from this, he is charged
with investigation and recruiting of information personnel
as suggested by himself in accordance with his opportunities,
but only after consultation with us.

CLASSIFICATION



Ve as

Page 2 : ‘TRS-A-403 - 9 August 1949

ll. By direct contact in a "safe house",
: . 12, Materiel emanating from Project Humankind through Subject
isa photogrephic. Material from Project Hugger and from
Subject himself is written.
13. Approximately 40%.
14. Written. Copy was forwarded as TRS-A-364,
15. The subject matter with which Subject 1s concerned under the —

j arrangements noted under No. 10 above is that of communisi
= activity in student and labor groups.

| He 16. He works only as directed by us, but frequently suggests
\ : mattezs for his own consideration. i

e
17. Subject is paid in colones at the rate of $400 per month.

18. After six months employment, approximately December, 1949,
we expect to raise his salary to ¢500 per month.

19. "Contact expenses in connection with Projects Hugger and
Humankind are paid subject, and average $200 per month.
Maintenance expenses and rent in connection with the "safe
house" where he does his work average $125.00 per month.

20. We would, were such a contingency to occur. To date it
has not. : iY :

(a) Superior (b) Superior
Semi-covert because of his nationality.

(A) High level.

Ce



OFFRATIONAL CLEARANCE.

TO: Chief, FAT (etl gta, Katy)

Cperational Clearsnce is hercty granted for the use of KUMAFOID. “~

Linitations: As defined in TRS-A-376.

WOH C. HOWMET
Operatione] Clearerce Officer
for Assistant Lirector, Epeé!e! Cperctions

def 16 ver)



gegrth
Operationn?, Clearanse Officer, 050 . 16 duly 1549 i
i
: Chief, FEE
it feanld : b 7

i 1, 3 40 requasted that provisional operational clearance bo pranted
P fer the use of ‘manoide re

2. It is further requested that a covert investigation bo mado on

avbjoote



~ SOUNTRY: Costa Rice
" OBJEGTIVES AKD
Paar

| “SALARY:
a

BYALUATICN OF
SERVISZS:

‘EVALUATION OF
VATION:

© oHBR PasToRs:

@esaoe por month. (crpery Morr fev Pe.)

* progrece with respect to this assignment,

PERIOD: 1 - 30 June loag

(1).- Cutout services, H
(2).- Communist. cenetration of local labor

orgeaizetions and/or studant e€roups,

(3h. Diseretionsry raperting ani oparaticnal
ait of any sad all inteliigence iafcrmation
ng his way by reascn of his normal dally 5
activities, ay

(1). As Hunsniina cetout: Sudject ‘hes proven
excepticnully succeseful in the face of scme
unusuti dirficuittes. He hes, however, daveloped
the centacts necessary undor this hes¢iag on a
persenel frieniiy besis tc the. point vhere all

ere lending their enthusiastic ccoperution. at

Ao tugeer cutcut: Por he first tine in the Gece
histcry of his eaploynaat with us, Hugger le 3
Bubsitting well-orgesized reports und -bec inning i
to appreciate our needs. fis Erogress is directly =
attributable tc the tine and effort devoted to : q
direction by Hunsanoid, a

|

(2), Subject hes been fully ‘occupsd ‘during the
ahort pericd covered herein end kes Bede no

(3). Subfect tes cultivated three potential
Sources in fields of probstle interest to ua,
After further local investigation of their
Possibilities, headguerters will be consulted,

Directly, suofect has provided n0 informatica,
That stemalag rrcn tae projects he ts now super- br)
vising, however, {8 accurete and elways valaable.

Hone,

NapeeO eee ehsh Nth Aceennntys ects mee oo

gree

Bo Jaw 49
Ser- (67251



t

are

ios OFFIGIAL DISPATCH ee

DISPATCH NO. T23-A-364 4

CLASSIFICATION : !
To : Chief, Foreign ranch T Date:___13 June 1949 2 i
FROM =: Chief of Station, San José, Costa Rica °

SUBJECT: centr. Operations
SPECIFIC. Project Rumanoid : 4 !

Reference: TH3-A-347 : ‘

1. A copy of the contract signed by the
individual principally concerned in subject project
is atteched. The signed original is retained in our
files.

2. Pertisent operational date in accordance
with Field Lemorendum Ko. 6 dated 22 Septender 1947
will be forwarded when the operational rcutine bas
, been esteblished in more or less its finel form and
we are better able to judge the efficiency end value

of the. project.
- Lele

Blmer ©, Mercer

CLASS! FICATION



‘TRS~A~369

22 Juno 1949 cea

2e Informmt Rugger, formerly reporting through subject, has been
transferred to ths control. of Esanoid (see TRS~A~347)

Dor sorts


i

eee eet

La THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS © :
USAF Personal History and security ‘checks.



“ i i
OFFICIAL DISPATGH :

VA: Lir : DISPATCH NO.

Sheciey atm on Sta POUEM

CLASSIFICATION

t To : Chief, Foreign Brench T DATE:_5 Jenuary 1949

i "FROM =: Chief of Station, San José, Costa 3ice i
SUBJECT: cexrra- Operations i 4 |
{ seeciric- Project Hydropathic « :
ial)

E

Reference: P2P-A-365; TIP.

1. This stetion intends to make the fullest possible use of 4
Hydropathic, but it is not considered feasible to proceed y
with 6 formal request for project suthcrization until he i
hes established himsel? in this srea end heve sade his
tb ‘ eacqusintance. Tentatively it is planned to use hia in 6°
. : cut-out capacity, eeting informsnts which we wili previde,
for an orientation period of indefinite duration. Tn this
period it will be possible to eveluate Sudject's capacity
to pley an integrated pert in our operational Set-up, and
a spprovel for our plens in this respect will-then-be re-
quested,

-Hydropathic will de contacted upon arrivel and initial
arrangements for his cut-out services forwarded to head- |
quarters. i

23-23 tie Elmer C. Mercer
cc - Panama City ~ -

CLASSIFICATION



- ve t

a

: a A
: -.. OFFICIAL DISPATGH

ens Vis : DISPATCH NO. TRG=A-250

SPECIFY AIR 08 SEA POUCH

CLASSIFICATION

To : Qhief of Station, DATE:___5 Jenuary 1949 :

cree |

H i: Panama City j i
: FROM : Chief of Station, E i |
Ban Joss E |

SUBJECT: Genera- Operations

7 seeciFic- Project iiydropathio
Reference: TaP-4-565, Pert I Ly

The attached document, having served its purpose, 3
ie returned to your station. 4

Your cooperatica in the aetter is greatly appreciated.

be : 23-23 ee Meet He Dard i null Norcer

; ,
1 Enel. — f Jef p= Chron eefor!
H '00- = Washington Ved oop,

voum 40.
Ape tga7

CLASSIFICATION



oO
OFFICIAL DISPATCH

ViAr___aTR DISPATCH NO. 7ZP=s—402

SEC

CLASSIFICATION

To : Aeting Chief, FET DATE: _5) Tecesher 1948
FROM =: Chief of Station, Param City, Panama.

TY SUBJECT: ceneRaL- Operations
seeciric. HYDROPATHIC

Ref:  TZP47-411

1. HEDROPATHIC is not a yroject (ieno to all Latin Anerican Stations, dtd.
9 June 1947), It is a sirple recruitzent of an individual agent to be
controlled exclusively by the San José Station. TZP-A-355 Part II sug
gested a manner in which he tight establish ecntact with HYDROCYST I.
Since HYDAOCYST I is leaving Costa Rica tecporarily, this is no longer
a consideration. 7

i
t
i
ae 2. All documents in our files have been forwarded to San José. This station
“f has only contacted Subject twice and hes told hin noting about our organi-
H zation or any possibilities of any full tine rositions, If we can assist
if by arranging a contact betreen HYLAOPATHIC and San José or in any other
manner, we will be glad to do so. In the neantine, we will take no further
action unless instructed to d so by thi

Distribution:

“Wash (2) 7
Q)

1 4- Clie
‘rome $25 sta GLASSI FICATION

i ar

