# 104-10193-10147

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10193-10147

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIE

TION TOP AND BOTTOM

CXe DESTIAL

SACHET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

INITIALS

DATE

: /4!:1

А".ф.r.:

S

Inhelker J03

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarket

DIRECT REPLY

OISPATCH

fILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

had be male Lahoreat lot ! :?

Co??

cormitt:. cor

5?

1200

•?.'

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

PROM: NAME, ADDRESS AYO PHONE NO.

3. satan, 19/9', 5.

UNCLISSIFIED

co-i7*

CONFIENTIAL

ролы на 234

I APR SS

leplaces Forra #7.1

bich may be uorl

DATE

116/1

SECRET

1 448.

U 5 GOVERINENT PREETIES COTICE 1953-0 82-951

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Chles, Cartect Dirlalon

84 March 1961

Atta:

Dupport branch (Growley)

Chief, Wasbingtas 08f100

/1

Interview with ALEC Coralttee

1. At the request of tr: raberait for lalciect, li Divialos,

sual sberiden satervievod the cositter for AFfI et the lashington

Feld Orrico Ja 24 March 1961. Joy consistod of Abel Mustre, Vetor

Poliono, BLITO Emabria, Lealie PArtIs, Carlos Garcia del Iron, and

Aml soilnan. Icotro stated that tsa oremization vas sounded about

June 1960 1n Mend as a clandertise apolitical troup vith the objective

to ovurturo tastro, to mito tie Fariona Cuien exilo pavize al to

cronto laus too the effective reconstruction of Cuia. Herberaly 15

corried of 1nd1v1cual businessen rathcr than ropresentatives of

large organizat lone.

The comittee lnd bown norting with various lulted tates

one. they pointed out that the lin enory was tonerly prompartes

vith an enierdog riddle cloos, so that the term social revoltion

has ben covi by cartro prinarily to mouse iiisi suasura.

aldition, labor legielation ves lo estect which actually put eployare

at a disadrestage vith aployees, amperei to tha other countries al

Latlo Aneries..

Tho problen racing duden Inbor vas prinarily the

scabonal ous crop econory.

camoditles milablo, so claim amiast, myone and serely vort for

a castro-Conniet goverment. Toe ramer has not been helped by

agrarian refor, but bas been obliged to enter compentites or to

well his crops at coutralled prices, which are pald then ma b0u

the goveranent ploason. This 10 ely an ladtation of that Castro

pacedoed..

The corotter focle that impartor of the revolution actuaily

vere soaking koouty in joverwant sal the liberty outllned in the

In the ragard, lie arabors feel that the consnista

Day try for a decond round la say averanaut replecing cattro, such

m taturla redro mut develo, carenil sanures to prosote true

democratle eloctions. This goriest pay Include covert Comamiste

uto would be s coustant thrent. for this reasou, it ma chasised

and rememianised that the estle lestra de lost carafully screenad

by tha United Etates before their ratani to cuba.

---

## Page 3

A mijor concery tas been unissatios of the verlous edled

tict lone.

Ta bas ni started, but tim sonittee foola that

businesses much on they repredent asould bi proportionatoly representoi

In any no covengest durtag the mtera perlad oi reconstruction.

"hey bellove that no lafista of ans shase esould be includod le the

provisional sovertisit. ¿untuens reprepesteives of the coonale

claude hole part to for che fine on in Can politica cia

They erphanteed that the motlen la bot narely a Duben one

ut 1o a humist apriegbound aminst tse laited stater. Thay wrec

that the united States 3o what they, the burdenion, palled to do in

cube - to tale the ariasire. Developmate la Cuis have followed the

clasale Commot techniques, to that 1t should not be difficult to

anticipato future uros. Vaited Elates aroman mot be overtuled.

It sould do lens paaairo en soro affectively neposalvo. To dato,.

proseçeçãs hes som the comanista" mat envotina vonpon al the

Vulted Staton has lom so the point tons 16 la fareatened by a serious

lo00 of suaçoct la sta hurton.. Although it sas long been the busto

local nodal, some Ities are baglining to winter wother trey are slight

about the linited Storeo and whither they shoeid altan alder. Fidel

Castro von Ma rivalition by protogania mal sot by arse.

Go tha primary vasty of the damitios sassa to ba the letai

orientation of landers to bavu tater evar lie gorument le extlo

airlos recaut days. May phasisod that cuba Does a democratio

evanant sh they teen a tyranny of the right or the loft.

intod Sintes must realise that sone of tie ectle lenders marticipeted

of the bol aspecto or so crotro pre

To ailulo Banearla commentad that, although ClA eppeasad to ba

In touch with all ar tse other Cuben grospe, Do ove bad soproached

his organisation to asalat, or to learn uties li saa dodng. The unolo

comattre arterad to da aí ary pousidie assistance to CIA et my tine.

to effort too vado to sallult information es fueda tran Cas duriag

Fo Jo steeriden.

LOCIOOUTES: 3 ATLE DOENCO

1ia24279

---

## Page 4

alta to:

Cuban Konomy URTO

N°.

1i7n:1*:

arity.

---

## Page 5

rina trat

....i...

---

## Page 6

•..:

•: e: "c:

...e: citain

too dise did yo

M:.t8;

:..

oan....:

ino...oe 89.

t:e:on0.0m9-860

---

## Page 7

Actiologi

---

