# 104-10145-10246

## Page 1

104-10145-10246

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

LISD

SIGNET

11 March 1985

14S-2487

SUBJEC

ORD

BAVUG/1 Debriefing Report 1278

Luisa RODRIGUEZ Calderon/Photcgraph

Surveillance of Cuban Consulate Mexico

City

1. On 9 February 1965, AMVUG/1 identtited a

photograph of Luisa RODRIGUEZ Calderon,

who he stated

had been connected with the DGI Directorio General de:

Inteligencia) and the former Set?

retary of the Young Com-

munists in the Cucan Ministr

Enterior Commerce.

Accoraing to Ammune me croan Government thought

RODRIGUNZ had been

egruited by whe United States

Government pube n mexicosa

AMMUG/3

Tonsure

was recaled to Cuba.

details but recalled something

concerning

Shavin

a a letter from en American.

Further, AMMUGY

ed scmething abcut an American

student who visitec

cuba tino was suprosed to have made a

recruitment pitch to RODRIGUSZ or been associated in some

the poure pite mega to here ru/s did not lenoy

2. This photograph is part of the surveillance of the

Cuban Consulate in Mexico City and was taken from Film

No. 293, Photograph 16, dated 12 December 1983.

3. WH/C/RR/cs Comment: TY

asograph of Luisa

CALDERON Carralero (201-734274 2

Ugached to HMMA-21312

was compared to the aforement oned, photograph with the

result that both photos seeng

REPRODUCT

Piccolo

WH/C/RR/OS

B. Soo.

Ben Stotts

CROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS

DESTROY AFTER USEA

SECHET

6002531

21862

PACE

COPY 110.

4

os 11

---

