# 104-10228-10042

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10228-10042

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

/?":

SECRET

INRORMATION FOrTi

DATE DISIRIBUTIO

31 December 1868

TrIK

TCCS DIE: 002.002.

CO OS. 6OIO FI. MOM. MINT S. 152. CA&, COMPRO. OS. WH 6

WAWITAHION

TITT TACY !

PerCININET

11N-12013)

HAVE-155÷

NO PROJPCT

Liaison'"

P.M

31018

HANOUNG INSTRUCTIONS

ARUT

NavY

CONTROLLED DISSEN

DD/P INTERNAL USE ONLY

AL'THENTICATING OPPICTI

CCORDINATINE OPPICIAISI

Fats no 01zi

EAZERO:I9 211.

CUSSIAICATION

SECRET

119 no Fiend laj

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TANL

Marina.

sir.

TINTORMATION REDS

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGINET

5-F. -C-R-E-T

CAROLED DISSE!

COURIEr CUBA

SURICI

COMMENTS BY FRIEIDO OLIVA ON THE

ATTITI!SUT THE RECENTLY REIGAGED

CUBAS PRISONERS

DATE Of

DECEMBER 1962

INFO.

pregnand lose Dis-3/665.007

DATE DISTR. BI DECEMBER 1962

PRCCASENCE PRIORITY

RECEPCPiCES

ind 12013

PLACES

SA 15F.

CHITRO STATES (28 DECEMBER 1962)

A'PRAISAL

THIS IS UNEVALUATEO ASCENARDO, SOURCE GRADINES AUE DIRIMINAL.

1a260nar9d

ARCAD CENTRE RINTATIVE

A COMPETENT DESERVER LED FROM ERNETO CLINA,

- SECOND-S-20900

--

1. THE FOLLOWING IS A SUMMARY OF STATEHESTS MADE RY ERGEIDO

OLIVA, SECOND-IN-CONMAND OF THE BRIGIDE, FOLLONG THE RELEASE OF THE

BRIGADE: PRISONERS:

A, THE BRIGADE WAS LOOKING FORWARD TO THE 29 DECEMBER

STADIUM EVENT L5 MIAMI AS AS OPPORTUSITY TO DEXOISTRATE ITS DAS

STRENGTH AND UNITY AND TO GAUGE THF EXTENT OF APPEAL. AND SYMPATHY OF THE

EXILE COLOVY, HOPEFULLY, THE BRIGADE EXPECTS TO SERVE AS A UPIFYING

FORCE OF THE POLITICAL, GROUPS AND FRAGHENTS IN THE MIAMI AREA, ALTHOUGH

OLIVA STRESSED THE FACT THAT THE BRIGADE DID NOT COSIDER ITSELF AS A

POLITICAL, BUT RATHER A MILITARY GROUP.

B. TEZ BRIGADE CONTISUES AS THE MILITARY ARY CE THE CONSENO

CLiSSIPICATiON → UIDDENIMATIOY CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

POTROLLER DISSEY

RERCLICLANT

TELECKA

INFORMATION REPORT SRELEGRAME

11880.

.c...:.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

MIA HESTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

COORD DISSEN

THE 5040-3. Pie. 60 =

REVOLICIO•ANDO CUBANO CORE, CESS HESOLUTIGIANS CONSCIO, AT LEAST DUR

• THE PHESHIT, AND LUUNS TORARO THE CHO FOR SITERIAL ASSISTANCE TO

ESTABLISH UNIGADE HEADQUARTERS, ETC. THE LEADERS PLANNED 1O "REIFASE"

BRIGADE MIXERS FOLLONISÜ THE COMPLETION OF THE 29 DECENDER EVENT SO

THAT THE VEN COULD FIND JOES, GET REST, ISD LOOK AFTER TilETS FAMILIES.

THEY ALL. KION THAT THEY WILL DE SURJACT TO RECALL. WHEN THEIR CONSTRY

NEEDS THEN AGAL. MANDATIE, SUE SHADENS

TITAND TO EXAMISE YARIOUS

ASENUES FOR A SOLUTION OF THE GUIAS PROULEM. IF MI. ROADS ARE BIOCHED,

THF THEY HILL RESIGS THESELVES TO A SOLUTION OF PERSONAL AND FAMILY

SURVIVAL PROBLEMS. NON, MOWEVER, STILI, CONSCIOUS OF THEIR DUTY TO THEIR

FATHERLAMO, TIEY INTEÑO TO TRY TO FIND A SOLUTION.

C. THE BRIGADE LEADERS' ORSERIATIONS DURING AND FOLLONITO

THEIR IMPHISOYMENT HAVE LED THEN TO COCLUDE THAT CLASDESTISE

ORGASIZATIONS INSIDE CUBA ARE MINIBAL AND LEADERS TO HEAD A GUERRILI

EFFORT ARF SALEXISTENT. SINCE THE AMN. 10G1 BUNSION, THE CASTRO.

FORCES HAVE BEES INCREASED VUNERICALLY AND HAVE NEHY FURNISHED WITH

12YHONE1 ADAMEST.

2. FIELD COUMENT: OLIVA REFERED TO THE INPRESSIVE DISPLAY OF

CUBAN AIR POWER ON THE DAY TILE BRIGADE PRISONERS WERE RELEASED WHEY

20 VIG'S FLEN DUER THE AISPORT. COSEQUENTIN, IT IS MIS FIRM CONVICTION

THAT THE BRIGADE IS THE ONLY CONVESTIOTAL MARFARE MILITARY EFPORT ABLE

TO DESTRUY THE CASTRO MILITARY MACHINE.

3. FIELD DISSEY: CINCLAIT, CINCARIB. END OF MESSAGE

S-E-2-R-2S9 as 40.

CONTROLLED DISSEN

1.-.

---

