itoa-10079-10026)

JO:

‘AL
ac JNLY.

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

“CONC GIL

ROUTING AND RECORD : SHEET’,

EXTENSION | NO,

RIAN eae
‘ be WEA Lax Se $
Fiiang) = “evneton. room mann, ond one crncers | COMMENTS (Number «ach <anment te shew frm hon
camo Tromwansia| INIALS' | S°thom Drew's tin seross Colamn she each comer}
E
2 |
CISRA at | q MIGROFILMED j
rE [CE AUK 2.0 1985
SAME |
* 03 “ieAp =
Lid /ta) Mul Great) |
4 = — |
|
5.

Rip Aus
7

RK DAS

en on abstirawt

Me pene

(be)

AZ
Rd/Nec BRST RGme
12, : 1]

201-742 942

fom B10 eRe DX

FoITIONS.

SECRET.

CONFIDENTIAL] |NTERMAL,

UNCLASSIFIED
URNTO CIA
panxground Use Ont
Pleproduoe

‘Do Not

J155° 7
Eye)


14-00000

( ( : EAST

CxAAZ- 226020

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. J. Lee Rankin
General Counsel
President's Commission on the
Assassination of President Kes

SUBJECT: ° information Concerning Jack RUBY 2S> micne. sen. |

2, Reference is made to your memorandum of 19 May 1964,
Fequesting that this Ageacy furnish any information In ita files
relative to Jack RUBY, his activities and his associates,

2, This memorandum will conflrm our earlier statement to
the Commission to the effect that an examination of Central Intelil-
gence Agency flles has produced no information on Jack RUBY or
his activities. Ths Central Intelligence Agency has zo indleation
that RUBY and Lee Harv ALD ever knew each other, were
associated, or might havé been connected in any manner.)

C2N- 2842S)

3, The records of this Agency were reviewed for information
about the relatives, friends and assoclates of RUBY namad ia your

ary of his background: Our records do not reflect aay informa-
ining to these persons.

Thomas H. Karamessines
Acting Deputy. Dizector for Plane

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
2-DDP
2 C/E REA

ehuing

201-74 2962

