*"404-10169-10325]

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

= a _

i hd : i‘
wn b _ ROUTING AND RECCRD LHEET

1. Fall in Sect. 2.
Jo” flap aa forward
2. Destroy frozt cov;
records sigrific:

_ Consents. requir

Detach bace

steet, unless it
action taxen or
& preservation.

t proper file zo. below
end forward docuneat to RID/AN.

RID/

Ind Use r
a lo Not Reproducs”
5 HC Gwe ciel. if =
Q

‘0 GQ@0% 00 0°09

¢



» DISPATCH —

Sauer, Sa fipdiatiineerirergrr
neo. DLOL, WE

2-2 0555,

ay al cf Statice, fF

aaa : <=
© REDS O00 / RADAR / Ls eS . iam

Claatonduryte Meeting with Anatoliy kikhs¥iovich KLINCH¥zT—

>

2, Anatoly ithailevich KLILBY, KIS type in Heleiaki, was net by Clastonbury
on the cocasion ef tre ins); Corpe'Gvisit to the Ltalian vessel, Montecucooll, |
during ite wieit to Finland on 9 August 1%). :

2. After the initial perfunctory greetings and introduetiona to various
moabers of the :OFeTSy Claatonbury introduced hiaself to kiiacv, Liseov requeated
that hie cordial ereetings be transaitted to his forms eo deague, Costilie.
Claatonbury promised to do 90 and then started to mingle wits other asebers
Of the group abvarnd tne vessel. Klisov definitely maneuvered Aisself tate a
porition to be elese to Cléstonbury 90 as to enrege his 1a cunversations

do Walle teurtng the vessel Kisov reuarked about the availability
of the Weleinks w

men (or the fine Italian members of the crew, Chastoal
Jet on as to thie waa im the true tradition of the see and the Italien apirit.
‘Thie led to & dieuweton Fegarding the increase in world population, to witch
aatonbury meulinned the tremendous population of China, Kiimoy remarked that
tho Chinese vere prroreating at an unbelievable rate of Bone two hundred thousand

ber month, -Claatvnbury retorted that this was not unusual for a poor backeard
country that had

few cutlets for other types of recreation, Klimov then suaceated
that now the Cldese are able to avail themselves of the new peoples! recreation
facilities, to win Vlastonbury retorted it this wae quite apparent since

they are multiplying at Wie rate of teo hundred thovaand per aonth (Kinov's
eane figures). :

Clastonbury pointed to them and renarked that

Someone would have hineslf a good job to perform. Kiinov immediately started

Searching out Vlastonburgts military experience, by pointedly asking if Clastenbury

had served in the Navy, ‘Clastonbury replied in the affircative and sexed where”
mov served. He replied in the Artillery and was quite aware of the work involved

in polishing shell oaainm, Klimov then asked Clastonbury if he cared to join

his for lunch. 1) view of the fect that a luncheon would probably be inevitable,

and since it waa lunah time and nc meal: e being served aboard ship. Clastonbury

agreed to accept Alienvia invitation. Kidnoy first suggested @ place where one

gould enjoy sons orayfish (or as he stated it "crabs") Clastonbury requested

that they not indulxe in this sizce he had sone but » few nighte ago and they

were too time-oonmuming, Klimov then suggested a Russian restaurant, Bellevue,

which was supposed to be Nearby. Clastonbiry sgreed; howover, upon departing

the ve: on the way to lunch, Klimov suggested that they walk in searoh of

the restaurant aince he hed never beon there. Clastonbury agreed but inaisted  Clakt-

that they ride 4h hia oer since he did not wieh to leave it on the dooke* <Limertont
gered, then progesied to get lost in some of Heleinkis downtown traffic. Unintene
tional es it waa, it

way have led Klimov to believe that ‘Clestonbury was indeed
‘& green newoomer to this ares,

5+ AV the restaurant Kiimov insiated that Clestonbury choose the
Course since he wan not too familiar with Chinese foods Clestinbury obliged.
Wiiroy eleo inainiad that they havd o martinixX, and then he ordered beer while

Clastonbury ordered tea with hie Chi food. The waiter placed scz9 chopsticks
on the tables fainting than,

and with what he must have thought to be a olever
remark, Klinov banuiixly stated to Clastonbury, tat “these are for barbariauiats,
Glantonbury statad lat he understood the EXK Chinese were now learning to eat
with forke and ajnueated

that Kidmov'a government might have a tromendous fork
market in EXM Ohitia tor tI

heir excens atee! production. Miimov became rather
~sosbirrasesd and ubaved sual, ati

Othe 104.

KI Se | a oy re a 21 rt un antl A ht,

Bhoke Yome PS na. Ry] RG, the ORR, men aigeated KinY Ling, might
PT

BA

Hier LOO,
nn

"ASHHICATION.

SECRET



Ekterea comtries.

6. Giaow tnen priate: ct Wat Clésturbury’s true nee somaed fusaian
et ecced if Clastcenury was Snore. Clartaeory replies Lo, be was tet Kisalan,
but an amerca cf -are-ties ertrection. mow (ued otated teat they cure
Weet sea yart (.anteses) o.260 te toy mas @ -sreccias bern in toltava, crastoabury

“Yet co Wat Le coe cf Po. tawe o12ce Liat was care Feter tre Urcat teat tre

Swotee, sowever, ~Lastoebury eviided indicalicg isl Be utcerstocd tre nussion
wurts used Ly Lev. LiimoW Liem proceeded bo expel Ural seaiyac} meaut
posple from We sane regio, O18 esse LOF Os Aaerican vereica. vlastonbury
plated that tere e402 HO Suc precise seaulig is our Country wd tat we cere
el) dmericans firet then (ceslbsy B3ta as Jdeutificaticn fron mulch state ve
were seelting and tuat we Las no Balicaslity problems as 414 tne Soviet Unica.
Diiaoy thon acrocd tat tae U.5e cas © melting fot of moet surcpean eleaenta,

_ Ve Poratediy Dimov ougcosted tnat he and Ciastondury were cf the
gene tes: Clastandry Wee stated Wat, 00, Liseov was euch cider, al tious
‘saascabury hed eany more gray haire Usn he, pointing to hls eraying toepies.
Eitace thea joint dienes ested Bow ol6 are you, to wnick Clastunbury stated thirty
end bow cld are your Liiacw stated Uasty-five, a4 appeared acased or locked
wmbeliovingly ot Claatousurys

! Qy Bitsov then retumod to nie sarties exporionce stating that he
Jarteen in 1944 shen he opead tures mnnths on the Bulgarien front
ta Gre m@tiliery ané parties: Whe liberation ef come of the Bulgarian
v wines, CY 4 drink 46 thea, to witch Kijmov remarked
nt since 18 vas sort of a victury trophy, After a dul) in tne ociversation,
}imov elated tat ne wae reading the exchange of letters Letecen Hoosevel’
and Btalin, and felt they were of significance to the present-day situation
tn Corny, when asked if he too had read Wiis exuhange of jettere, Claatonbury~
etated that he ad read an interesting book covering tne sase uaterial entitled
*Ohupehiil, Hoosevelt and Stalin" by Yoie. Klisov appeared interested in the
Pook and. wanted to mnow af 1% contained the personal consents of the author,
Father than @ presentation of the facte. “Ulaatoibury Jet 3% be knom iat the
book was factual, but as in al) books the author's cosrente wore to be accepteds
AG thie junction Kisaov etated that Berlin would be a teat of our rejationahige
Chaatcabury stated that he saw no reason for auch it, Kifaov stated that
)} the troubles in Ceraany would be settled by @ signing of the Kast Cersan
Yeace Treaty. would enable the Cermaie to solve their own question of
unification shich would come one way or another. Ulastonbury auggested to Klimov
that the Boviet Uovernment vas shirking ite responsibilities in this situation
by attempting to wash ite hande of the Cerann question. “Clastonbury etated that
the efgning of the peace treaty vas nothing elee tuan placing the match in the
Naat Oeraan hands with which they could ignite the “tinder box". Klimov protested
that the tinder box hed existed for sany years and that their siming the peace
treaty was “only signing a YS piece of paper" and not passing the uatch to the
East Oermanc. Kirov then suggested that Cleetontiury'e government join hands
with the Boviets and eign the treaty. Claétonbury replied that he did not believe
that Bie governrent weuld ever sign such an agreement. Clastonbury suggested
that the Soviet Government in lieu of signing the treaty pursue a course of
honest negotiztion to resolve the question. Klimov stated that Khrushchev in
hie speeches had indicated the Soviet Government's willingness to inolude the
U.S. in negotiating the final version of the peace treaty with East Germany.
-CLeastonbury suggested that Klimov attempt to let it be known to Khrushchev, altho igh
he underatood that Klimov was in no such poeition as to be able to tell Khrushchev
what to do, that Khrushchev etop engaging in public appeches end start negotiating
$f he really denires peace. Kiimov stated t at Khrushchev's speechos were indeed
negotiation and asked Clestonbury what he thought negotiation should be. Clastonbur,
retorted that, as
of both sides and
speech with e request that the other eide merely conour. -Clastonbury pointed
out that einos-the end of the war the United States had presented many proposals
for the settlement of the German question and that time and time again it was
Winov's governnent that refused even to noxotiate on the principles of those
proposala, Clastonbury was surprised to see khrushohey pull « solution out
of his hat and expect another foverunent to worely aipn on the dotted line.
Mlimov did not counter any of these statements but suggested that the U.S. had

BEORKT



Greed & s0arste jeece tr te Capmace
fey ite execs senoes.

~ejanese yoace Ureaty Lat ree tod
tA Peetef at re-ations ©:Ua @ jwaceemay enctry, a8 Siaetaury 00s 2arprised
Bo see tas 10 tad tarem Le Scviet semracect oe sere t otart Coir cepeiations
Wiva Ue poaceli: Japenese —wereect.

SresUmbary forties eurgeeted Liat te
Sepemase jooce Ureaty wns 6 reeult of «

Ailferect o08 cf cinwaste coo tian tose
Frevesiing ino Givices Jemacy. aimee Jhlegesl eouter bc tase tees wes

Suet Che Gerrans froe tine iseeeorie. core @ ber lise Latin, Ciestcbery eurqueted
Vat Litsow tbe Better wt ties ot is tine “STAY cas Lucepadio if ay ecgreees

POM Olgming & peace Lrvety wile Ure sent areas? Bileee eouls casy renee
Wat tray woud sim te perce treaty,

0. Af the ecasi-sion of the ecel
ted Re 454, and clumeiiy poesotes tis 03,
Luncheon, Klimov tien eumeoted tat taey efj0a te Lererg'o for ome etioe,
VO lek Cleetuabury axreed. Over ovae ecdfee Nileoy en peed U4 ¢-s0tliand
fo met eprte Ciast.anury ces Pelag WS engage 18 Gurtiig Ale Olay 38 Delotaas,
Claatendary fit yyentiy resasses “ariaasar. ‘Riteoe thea sertoussy eosed 0d
Pyve of Ariske <leotiabury mjoyeds Vieetiibany ALON stated be Op ireviates
Visated bostenborve, alimcy etated tat alt

Riiaey tnesetes an paytag the O31)
DL sndieoting Ht bt30 00s 80 fereimal

houga he 660 140d bosseiturve, be
Raturally preferred wood Kuselan volsa, he Aloe Meccmaet6ed ime shusjage

WS LOR Cldatcivury ropited Lat tne

Lhe tne Toar's collars in 5

Crteea,

Were excellent wines, Wits regere
he had boon stationed in Aisniney
wines, He recalled Wat Coatsiie preterned Georgian brandy to that from Armenia
Walch he Rinself enjoyods Alimoy then eudeveted that up Bis retum froe the
Soviet Union, after hie leave, he would bring beck some onanpasne and Armenian
sognee for Clastcabury to try, Lines tren etated thet they could drink to the
Slgaing of the peace treaty wi

4
AN would probatly be after the tourtet jason in Vetcber, He also etated that
he would bring bis 5-6 year old daushter back to Vinlend at that time, %)tnov
then presented a pioture of nie daughter, Clastenbury remarved how pretty sne
Nea.and hoped that she was doing well tn achool. Klimov etated thas she ven
Red in echos) but visiting with her standparents in Loscow. Ailimov then uaked
4¢ Cieatcnbury had any children, to which Clastcnbury atated that he hed two
fine sons. Clastonbury alsc et:ted that ainoe he had errived he hed sone difficulty
in obtaining « maid and asked Kidmor AC he had a maid. Klinov replied that he
had none and that he and his wife lived alone.

9. Occasionally during the convereation Winov injected some Russian,
German and French words, to vhich Clastonbury nade no reaction, It was undoubtedly
& crude ploy to test Clastonbury's lancuace capabilities. Cleatonbury did let
44 be imcwn that he was studying Flunieh and asked how Klimov was coning along
An the language. Klinov replied that Finnich was too difficult for hin to grasp
@NS that he bad ¢iven up studying 13 after a few months, but edmitted to moring
BeRy OF the basic words to manage in darly life. i

10, Tron leaving the coffee howe Clastonbury volunteered to drive
Kiwov back to the Soviet Exbasay. Klimov scoepted but upon arriving at the
szey Kiinov rejected Clastonbury's jroposal to drive right up to the dorr
gf the Hubascy and requested to be let cut acroas the atrecbe A Clastonbury
drove away after the cordial thank you for the neal and the company he noted

an Mie rear view mirror that Klinov Started to walk deck from where they had
duet been and not towards the tmbasay,

LU. Clastondury's assessrent of Klimov at this time is that although
he may be a knowledgeable RIS type he waa extremely orude in attempting to elicit
the basio PRQ Part 1 information on SMaatonbury that will eventually appear in

CANT AT
Ypy tee's30 Pad rer



a TS eee

= SBCREY eae
: z,

a5
2

the bingrestie register. Clastunbury ford Dliecy rather écll, misaginative,
Wd Zioeeie, and CoeervIng cf some ef the preeably Litiis anc ot tines fliszect
resars cf Vlestunbury, Aim0v le uo tedly @ coneliced afd -APeUCIEg .0¢-Oen
Cperetive. Ciastanbury 01]] méouttec.y neve to recipeceate eita e:cthar luncteca
Fire be DoTes Wo mene G0 Hriel on* ae jalriees as joesitie. 41) future contest i
Wath Klimov wil} be best to tue barest minimum oc as rct to lavelve te Station's *
Line aca effort cm wnat now appears to Le a useless target. ?
—— ores =
/ ° eee

WEA Ma -Zha

WALETR RB, CLASTONBURY -

Motributions : '
Ober :
i
@ Botetans |

yey

!

ecm com scjp nnviaun ec tanec ee et :

th

