""}04-10256-10089| [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J ”
rn #3

‘uph

a

bis ee -o3u4

9 January 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Inquiry from State Department Regarding any Agency Interest
in Mitchell Livingston WerBell II

In answer to our inquiry to the Office of Security regarding the formulation
of an answer to the State Department inquiry on WerDell, Mr. Vic White
authorized a statement along the following lines on 9 January 1968;

: “The Central Intelligence Agency has no professional interest in
nor business contact with subject. He fs, however, an individual known
to us who, over a considerable period of time, has attempted to yolunteer
information to various officers at different locations of this Agency. It
{s our interpretation thet his actions were primarily designed to gain
access to us in order to benefit his own business undertakings. Some of
his actions would lead us to believe be has somewhat of an erratic

personality.”
1s/
Jobn F. Blake
Deputy Director of Logistics
Distribution:

3
Orig - OL/PD/CPB (Mr (Limbect)
- DD/L Official a
1 - DD/L Chrono
DD/L:JFB:pk/2551 (9 Jan 68)

NOTE: Mr. Werfell is mentioned in an article in True Magazine, January 1968
edition. The article is entitled “The Deadliest Salesmen" by Andrew
St. George.
DD/S Distribution:
Xerox - DD/S Subject
—_.1 ~.Mr, Goodwin, Assistant-to-the Director = ===
1 - General Counsel ~~..—
-t= Director of Security - Setcat ft Eeeeemenctc sua tnctat
1-RLB fe .

