# 104-10164-10097

## Page 1

14.00000

104-10164-10097

He cal

Li".

11'7

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1002-271

201- 299292

Aug 76 - Oct 76

Vl = II

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DELANDO B O E CA ATILA

On 88 06804447 1978 IRB IAPATOA 14S.258 0408

aos" Reitão no sons lesteririos araroo, la 1960 do oão prançad on

-As cara bus do sonor rustillad loo toqueroadaro lo bacoso a 0.8.

opiniro voluniary doparruro.

---

## Page 3

OUTGOI E

MESSAGE

1404-070

939y98

ver;

119020005)

2/312

9001

TNMSDTATE INNBGRATION ANO MATURRESZATSON SERVICE SNTELLIGENCE

DIVISION. O ATTN: LEE BENUCHAMP Y

SEERUT-WARHENG MOTECR-SENSITIVE IMTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND MERMODE

INVOLVES

+ 888-236204436-768

STATUS OF ORLANDO DOS CH AVILA Y

NO. THIS AGENCY WOULD APPRECRATE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE

CLARTPICATION ON THE CURRENT IMMIGRATION STATUS OP ORLANDO

•OS'E NAVILA, CUBAM EXILE BORN SA AUGUST 3926, SANTA CLARA.

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT PROM MASAN

GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.0, 33652. EXEMPTION

CATEGORY S8 823. -IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIS

DECLASSTPICATION-d

PILES 200-32-200/30 203-2992920

CAN

BAT 2A: OCT 76

SHITA LAGSBACH

NT 2472

si-luk

RECORD COPY

RIPRODUGTION BY OTHBE THAN YME ¡ASUANE CPVICE 18

9: 842200-12:300/1

NO 10)

TrON 10&G

316/04416 16

28асти

311-299532

Leads

PDaT

RY11:12

1. 82

---

## Page 4

14-00000

OUTGOIPS MESSAGE

-.".

STARE

DIRECTOR

POR SANTRACO IMPO CARAÇAS, O SAN JOSEE. Y

0,5

¡A. SANTIAGO 95326 lIN OITZURI MES-SO, 272(86MA ACLAYEO SAN JOSE)

SANTIAGO 35332 IN 0795991 OLNOT NERDÓO SAN JOSE) Y

POLLOUING IS CORRECTION ISSUED POR HEADQUARTERS| CUSTOMERS

OCTOBER 39761 "A POUR-PAGE IMPORMATION REPORT WITH THE ABOVE

HEADING AND NUMBER MAS ISSUED ON ZE OCTOBER 3976• ACCORDING TO

PARAGRAPH POUR OF THAT REPORT, THE PASSPORT POUND IN THE POSSESSION

OF ORLANDO BOSCH QUAS ISSUED IN CHILE IN 1966. ON Z6 OCTOBER THE

SOURCE OF PARAGRAPH FOUR, CÓRRECTING HIS EARLIER INPORMATION, REPORTED

! 3.

THAT BOSCH'S PASSPORT WAS AN ORDINARY CHILEAN PASSPORT, BEÄRING THE

2. REF A BEING

FILE: 201-299292-1

EZ IMPDET.

TiL SAN LOSE FOR DISSER TO AMBASSADO

LA COMMENTS REF A CHILEAN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION ON CUBAN EXILE

LEADERS' ORLANDO BOSCH AND ROLANDO OTERO

D.UPDATING ON BOSCH'S PASSPORT

C/bA/MCM

DATBI ¿O OCTOVER 1976

HAT"

KX

HUA/SB/CH

24734

RECORD COrY

NETION BE GINSE THAN THE INSUINE OFFICE iS PROMISITEO

1500676

Мен 19922)

CALA/SO

₴

---

## Page 5

-".?

MESSAGE

14=1

•

ізчить

IMMEDIATE SANGRATION AND NIPLAILIZATION SERVICE INTELLiGENCE

BSVISION O ATTN: LEE BEAUCHAMP Y

SECRET-VARMINE MOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHIDS

INVOLVED

080-336104436-764

SUBJECT: STATUS OF ORLANDO BOS CH AVILA Y

THIS AGENCY WOULD APFRECIATE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE

LARTFICATTON ON THE CURRENT IMMIGRATION STATUS OF ORLANDO

(BO"S CHL AVILA, CUBAN EXILE BORN SA AUGUST AUGUST:Z926, SANTA CLARAO.

CUBALA

C• CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. "EXEMPT FROM BRUNN

GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E-O: J1652. EXEMPTION

CATEGORY SB 82J. 'IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE! OF AUTOMATIC

DECLASSIFICATION. N

: FILE!

200-2-80011 20-399292.

MATIZE OCT! 76

ORIO

UNN, LAYSBYCH

1470 2473

MITHOULOTION BY OTHEA INAN THA INDUINO CHHICH SI PAO

Клави

IMPDET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

10a19612 71:

• Отека Te

AORANCE COS

"SO BOTTO

STARE

FILE

106EGZ 0003

8 856936

E6A878

PAGE 81

10912815858 009 26

IN 882793

ISJOS

20351

SECRE 1. 2015088 OCT TO STATE

CITE SAN JOSE 20058

Source:

POi DIRECTOR INTO SANTIAGO, "CARACAS.

ÜNINTEL RYBAT FUDHELL

REFSIS

SANT 8A0O 35352 (1N. 08/609) ZABCH

.

JAN JOSE 19715 INOT SENT CARAÇAS, (cal 978488).

FOLLOWING COMMENTS REIDARA Z OF REF A ARE, BEING:

REPEATED FOR CLARIFICATION,

2004

10/71

PER PARA 1 OF REF 8, IT HAS COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT DANIEL

-O DUB ER: QUIROS WHO APPARENTLY CONJURED-UP INVOLVEMENT 05

ORLANDO:

BOSCH IN THE ARMS MOVEMENT STORY DISCUSSED BETWEEN

COSTAN RICAN PORESON MINISTER GONZALO PAC I O AND CHILEAN

AMBASSADOR TO COSTA RIGA LORCE A RANDA

PARRA, "GANCIDENTIAL:

PUNGEICNARIES GP THE U.S, SAGASSYM SACTUALLY U.S, AMSASSADOR ÜSING

STATION INFO: VMO ADVISED THE COSTA RICAN DOVERNMENT OF

AN ULTRA-,

ASGHTIST PLOT DID NOT REPEATINOT MENTION THAT BOSCH HAS INVOLVED: IN

AMY NAY WITH THE PLOP, AND STATION MAS NO INPORMATION INDSCAPINO

і РНАРОВОВЕН НАВ ЕМУСЬУВО,

ALLEGSO INVOLVEMENT OR BOSCH WAS APPARENTLY PURE INVENTION:

BY PARDIDENO ODUBBA AND PORSION MINIBTER PAGIO AND THEY TOLO ANVENTION

B20/290=?85-

D 200 - 12-200/1

RECORD $:0.99

280t76

501248882

---

## Page 7

14-00000

IABLE

BEC

DASSEM

ICTAi CORES

SECRET

пашак ото

STARF

АСТКУМ

METIED

RE . FILE .

vR

116056:

ELAB>S

PAGE

02-22

|T0R1281515Z OCT 76

1N

882793

SJOS

28051

PO ARANDÄ POSSIBLY TO STRENGTHEN THEIR CASE SINCE BOSCH TRAVELLED

ON CHILEAN PASSPORT.

FILEI 201-308985.

208-12-20011. EZ IMPDET.:

notes:!

65K

1219 1H6002 69 978005 92 16:

Made rong enheart

1299

14°1

tigi

ist

---

## Page 8

14-00000

OUTGOIN

MESSAGE

lues om

OMFASO

SECRET

14-2

LA

2723362 CIA/DDO

com

was: the chelaw,

934175

osse off

pari

13z

TOSTFEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION//ATTN: ROK. MCHARGUE/GENERA.

INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION-Y

SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INDELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS -NOT RELEASABLE TO

CONTRACTORS OR INCONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS Y

FIRC1-332/03218-76 y

¡ SUBJECT: CONTACT BETUEEN ORLANDO BOSCH AND THE NOVO BROTHERS IN

MIAMI SHORTLY BEFORE THE. ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO LETELIER Y

D. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPH 2:

A VENEZUELAN GOVEPNNENT EMPLOYEE

MHOSE POSITION GIVES HIM ACCESS TO OFFICIAL REPORTS ON VARIOUS

SUBJECTS- HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED. THIS INFORMA-

TION SHOULD NOT. BE DISCUSSED WITH FOREIGN OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THOSE

OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT. Y

2• SINCE HIS ARREST ON 15 OCTOBER, 1976 ORLANDO BOS CH

AVILA, CUBAN EXILE LEADER. HAS ADMITTED TO AN OFFICIAL OF THE

VENEZUELA PIRECTORATE FORTHE SCAVICES DE INTELLIGENCE AND

PREVENTIOR COISIPS THAT HE HAD CONTACT WITH THE BONANO GROTHERS

IN MIAMI SHORTLY BEFORE THE ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDEL ETE LIE RI

MELA

COBER-ITTE

UNN

857.

Bost

ON BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO APPICE IS PROMIDITEO

roy.

-..

---

## Page 9

OUTGOING

MESSAGE

IOnF.

0 3.

SECRET

сокя:

•F0: FRI

DABSEN ONI

934175

• 0a00

FORMER CHILEAN ANBASSADOR A THE UNITED STATES.

PHEADAUARTERS

COMMENTS ACCORDING TO A NUMBER SE PRESS ARTICLES, IGNACIO NO VO

NO GUILLERNO NO NO MAVE BEEM CHARGED DY SEVERAL OF THEIR

COMPATRIOTS IN VINEZUELA. AS BEING RESPONSIBLE FOR; THE ASSASSINA-

TION OR ORLANDO LETELIER. IT IS BELIEVED THAT YOUR NATES DURENU

NAS ADDITIONAL INFORRMATION ON THE NOVO BROTHERS- IGNACIO AND

GUILLERMO.JU

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. :

XGDS-ZiN

BASED ON:

CARACAS 31234 1IN 0802491

UKSCARLET CUXSCARLET-17}

OBJ.

J

TELECOÖRDS

#27 OCTOBER 76

Тит.

LAVEBICH

8478

Firear fors

REFROLIC

BY GINSA THAN SHI

GRANTIT

---

## Page 10

SECRET:.

LA SO

FILE.

Ve WANT KI

6. EID, COS/INT, SS 4.

OSGIC 2.

ELALIS

LEENCY ME

3

FAGE 8L

T0R82718327 069.76

8 E O9 8 1 2787008 OCT 20 INTELL

CITE SANTIASO 35351

HRS

TOR PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO CHANGES. SAN NOSE.

UNINTEL

SUPDATAS

IN BBL618

SAGO

39351

FILED: 8

HCS- 10-7,75

1P

ERWAHOO FOR MOS

REVIEN. SOURCE: FUDOUBLE:4D

TROM

DOCUMENT CITED.

COPY OF WHICH WILL BE FORMARDED HOS.

INDEX BOSCH, DAVANZO

CL BY 0A609, FILES

15-5-111.

2717007

XXXXX

2/100

DOC. MICRO. SEA.

DEC 8 1978

MICROFILWED

KA/BCH

2700+76

2010289492

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

ON INTERNAL USE ORY

INTELIGENCI DOORMATUA CARE

22 OCTOBER 1976

H9e8649

PAGE I O!

PAGES

Tha tallorri

is any octa

poranco into

DISSENINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INPORVATION CONTROLLED BY ORICINATOR

DISTRIBUTION TO. iSDO

avion, a copy la provided for your

83 mor di ir acres

REPORT GLASS SECRETO-dARNIN| NOTIGER-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVEDO NOT RELEASABLE TO'

FOREIGN

NATIONALSO-NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRAGTORS OR CONTRACTOR,

CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION

CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR

COUNTRY&

CHILE COSTA RICA

DOI

• FEARUARY-MARCH 187'6

SUBJECT:

OADDITIONAL DATA ON, GHILEAN IDENTITY DOCUMENTS USED

BY ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA

CHILE, SANTIAGO 12 OCTOBER 19768 FIELD NO. MCS 18,775

IFIELD COMMENTS MCS-18.7721

FROM THE SAME SOURCE REPORTER CHILEAN CONCERN OVEN THE FACT

THAT ORLANDO

+201-277218

AVILA MAD BEEN ARRESTED IN COSTA RIGA

IN EARLY S076 CARRYINO CHILEAN IDENTITY DOCUMENTS, THIS REPORT

PROVIDES FULL DETAILS OF THE INCIDENT AS REPORTED AT THE TIME

8Y THE CHILEAN EMBASSY IN BAN JOSE, COSTA RICA,!

AGCORDINO TO SECRET AJORAM NUMBER & OR PNE CHILDAN

---

## Page 12

14-00000

3007 onair

54000

SECRET

IN

D8J64O

TOAR

WARNING NONICE

TIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 2:OF:6 PAGES

UNTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMARIN SUBECT TE

ONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND ENO OF REPOR

ENSASSY INSAN JOSE, COSTA RICA, DATED 16 MARCH 197O. ORLANDO

BOSCH AVILA WAS ARRESTED IN SAN JOSE• COSTA RICA ON L8 FEBRUARY.

• 29763 ON SUSPICION OF BEING INVOLVED IN A PLOT AGAINST THE

UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF!

STATE. BOSCH HAS CHARGED HITN MAVING

ENTERED COSTA RICA ALLESALLY USING DOCUMENTATION IN THE NAME OF

HECTOR EMILIO RAMON

JANIZ O CINTOLESI. AS OF 10 MARCH

107,60

BOSCH: WAS UNDER DETENTION IN CARTAGO, COSTA RICA, " THE

COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT HAS STUDYING THE POSSIBiLiTY Of EXPELLING

MIN RUT HAD BEEN UNABLE TO FIND A COUNTRY WILLING TO ACCEPT HIM,

S. WHEN ARRESTED, BOSCH WAS CARRYING THE FOLLOMING CHILEAN

IDENTITY DOCUMENTS:

•AOLA BIRTH CERTIFICATE IN THE NAME OF MECTOR EMILIO

RAMON DAVANZO GINTOLESI, ISSUED BY. THE GIVIL REGISTRY OFFICE OF

PHE QUINTA NORMAL SA SANTIAGO SUGURBO ON & AUQUST S973... THE

CERTIFICATE WAS SIGNED AY ALBERTO @ AS A LO NCIVIL MEDISTRY

SECTION CHIEF, AND REFLECTGO A BIRTH DATE OF O AUZUBT 1027,

REGISTRY NUMBER 95S OR THEILAS BARRANCAS LA LOWER SURES SANTIAGO

SUBURB, INSERIPTION OFFSCE.

THE PARENTS WERE LORNTIPABD AS

8.:

CHILEAN IDENTITY GARD NÜMBER 8957482, IGGUED IN

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET

IN

08J640

гора.. "

MARNTIC NOTICE

DATELLICENCI SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVEI

PACE: 304 6 PAGES

UNTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THES INFORMATION SURJECT TI

ONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNINO ANO END OF REFOR

SANTIAGO.:

THE CARD ALSO LISTED A TAX SDENTUPICATION NUMBER OF

2.357.42205. IFSELD COMMENTO NO DATE OF ISSUANCE WAS REPORTED

FOR LINIS ITEM.)

CO AN AUTOMOGILE TITLE FOR A SIMCA 1008. ISSUED BY

•THE SANTIAGO PROPERTY REGISTRY OFFICE ON 21 SEPTEMBER: 2966 AND

BEARING REGISTRY NUMBER 682712.

CHILEAN ORDINARY FRED COVERD PASSPORT NUMBER

26583. ISSUED 25 SEPTEMBER 1975. IN THE NAME OF HECTOR EMILIO

RAMON DAVANZO CINTOLES!.

THE PASSPORT CONTAINS PRINTING OFFICE

REGISTRY NUMBER 14442-1975 AND THE SIGNATURES OF VICTORIA

MOR A N DOREN AND MARIA ELENA SEL MAMAS ISSUING

CRESCERS. IT CONTAINS THE APPROPRIATE TAX STAMPS, WATERMARKS.

AND SEAL ON THE PHOTOGRAPH

MA.. THE CHILEAN PASSPORT CARRIEU BY BOSCH CONTAINED ENTRY

AND'EXIT STAMPS INDICATIN THE FOLLOWING TRAVELS

EXIT FROM CMSLE VIA PUDANUEL INTERNATIONAL NIAPORE

ON ZBi DECEMBER 1073.

DOY ENTRY AND EXITIPROM PANAMA VIA POCUMEN INTERNATIONAL

AIRPORT ON Z9 DECEMBER 1070.

C.

ENTAY IN DU SALVADUR ON 28 DECEMOSA 1075,6PIELD

---

## Page 14

•.

88: 082640

MALING

хоть

EASTIVE LATELLICENCE SOLACES AND MITHODE EVOLVED NI

PAce a On 6 PAGEs

SECRET

PUNTER DiSSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUSIEET TI

CONTROLS STATED Al BEGINNINO, AND END: OF REPONT.

COMMENTO NO PLACE OF ENTRY OR SUBSEJUENT EXIT WAS RECORDED.I

DO ENTRY IN COSTA RICA ON 2 JANUARY 10200| SEBELD

COMMENTS: NO PLACE UE ENTRY MAS REPORTED.!

•E. EXIT FROM COSTA RICA AND ENTRY INTO NICARAGUA

ON 30 JANUARY 1976. IFSELO COMMENTI NO. PLACE OF EXITIOR ENTRY

HAS REPORTED. D

"F• EXIT FROM NICARAGUA AND ENTRY INTO COSTA RICA ON

O FEARLERY 19760 OFIELD COMMENTA NO PLACE OF EXIT OR. ENTRY

WAS REPORTED.)

BOSOM REMAINEDHIN SAN JOSE FROM 6 FEBRUARY 1976 UNTIL

HIS ARREST ON 16 FEBRUARY 107O. ACCORDINGTO A SECRET SOURCE

OF THE CHILEAN EMBASSY IN SAN JOSE, BOSCH OBTAINED THE FALSE

IDENTITY COCUMENTS FROM A FRIEND IN ENSLE HHO IS A COLONEL IN

ONE OF THE BRANCHES OF THE CHILEAN ARMED FORCES. (SOURCE

COMMENTS

THE SECRET SOURCE OP THE CHILEAN EMBASSY, MAS NOT

DENTURED, BUT CONSIDERING THE FACT THAT iNE SOURCE ALLOWED

A CHILEAN EMBASSY OFFICER PO EXAMINE BOSCHES FALSE IDENTITY

DOGUMGAITS, ¡9 HAS PROBAGLY GONDALO SAG SCO COSTA RICAN

VORETON MINISTER, IT 18 NOP KNOWN DE IN PACT THE CHILEAN

SAGARBY A SECRET SOURCE PAILRO TO PROVIDE THE IDENTITY OP THE

---

## Page 15

14-00000

00.

caso fi aprono

LORTO NECESSO METROS ANGLED

PACA $ OR 6 PACHI

SECRET

CHILEAN COLONEL dA SO TUE DABOARÃA OR NE REPORT PURISED IT 8M

THIS MANNER IN ORDER TO AVOIA DEPRICULTIES ASTA MIO SUORAIORS, I

O• THE REPORT MAS SISMED dY PRANÇISCO COU A PAGNECO,

CHILEAN CHARGE IN SAN JOSE.

ESOURCE COMMENTA

JERUA IS NORMALEY

THE OILEAN CONSUL IN SAN JOSE, BUT HAS QUARDE IN MARCH 1026

DUE TO THE ASSENGE OF THE AMBASSADOR ON LEAVE.

IN CETOBER 8970.

CRUZ NAS SUDDENLY RECALLED ÇROM SAN JOSE SHORT OP TOUR, AND

IS EXPECTEDI TO ARRIVE IN SANTIAGO IN LATE DETOBER, "THE REASON

GIVEN MITHIN THE FOREIEN MINISTRY POR GRUZI RECALL IS THAT

A NIECE OF PRESIDENT AUGUSTO D IN O CHET NAD OCCASION IO

REQUEST CONSULAR ASSISTANGE FROM HIM DURANO A PRIVATE VISIT TO

COSTA RICA, AND FOUND HIM ASSENT FROM MIS OFTISE DURING NORMAL

WORKING HOURS, UNDER CURRENT CONDITIONS IN THE CHILEAN FOREIGN

MINISTAY, THIS ES A PLAUSIBLE EXPLANATION, ANDETHERE IS NO

CONTRADICTORY iNFORMATION AVASLABLEA)

PIELD DISSEMI EMBASSY AT SANTIAGO IPRINGIPAL OFFICERS

ONLYD ALSO SENT SAN JOSE ¡PRINGIPAL OFFICERS ONLY) AND CARAGAS

SPRINGIPALCOFF OFFICERS AND LEGATT ONLY),

REPORT CLASE SECREI • MARNINO NOTICE DO SENSITIVO INTEULICENCE

BOURCAS

AND METHODS INVOLVAD • NOT RELBASABLS TO FORBION

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SECRET

100X600

LUCKRADE ANO SETBORS DVORE:

PACHi: 08 6 MО4

NOTES ONLON MADE A LOT LO DON MAS tO

coolarsmos +08001280190: 66 89855-8980 204 60 99040110

CONSULTANTS

O. DISSEMSMATIDN AND RAPANETION OF IMPORMATION

CONTADULED Or ORIGIUATONI

CLCTSIPIRO DY RECORDEO REPONTINO OPRICE,

XOD8-B.

?

5010299282

---

## Page 17

14-00000

•of..

8041835,-

clAs

D. 6Е

15T000 35858

80 CAN 9. 8989000 068 T0 SPOON

GITA SANTIADO S9J38

• 019EТO N2 80NSOEE, CARACAR.

RESI

120.

LANTIAGO S9s20 1d omnnda)

• SENT SAN JOB&I

SANTSAOO 3535190

•ИЧО

MCS SO, T95 BAHANDO

3.016

8M ADDITION PO DOCUMENT REPORTED REP DO FUDOUBLEODO PRAVIOEO

COPY OR CHILEAN EMBASSY COSTA RICA "RESERVADO" AIRARAM 220/30, DATED

? JULY 2970, MHICH TOGETHER MITH REP & DOCUMENT MERE BASIC DOGUMENTS

IN PILE AMICH PORESON MINISTRY ASSEMBLED ON ORLANDO BOSCH, DASCRIBED

REP AD

ISUAGEST REF & AND CORRECTION BE RELAYED SAN JOSE.)

REMAININO DOCUMENTS WERE NEMSPAPER GLIPPINOS AND DOCUMENTS ORIQINATED

IN OCTOBER 197S AFTER GOSEN ARREST IN CARACAS.

SO THE ADDITISNAL DOCUMENT MEPORTS THAT IN CONVERSATION WITH

COSTA RICAN /FOREION MINISTR GONZALO FAGIO, SHILEAN AMBASSADOR 9O

COSTA DIGA JORDE AMANEA PARALIHAS TOLD THAT "CONFIDENTIAL

FUNG TA ONARSES OF THE U.S, EMBASSY" HAD ADVISED THE COSTA RICAN

GOVERNMENT THA? AN ULTRA-RIGNTIS" PLOT, LED OY BOSCH. WAS BEING

ORGANIDED SN GUATEMALA TO OVERTARON THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT,

¡PAGIO MENT ON TO SAY BOSCH CLAIPED TO BE SUPPORTED DY THE QUATRMALAN

RECORD CO

2700+16

901-299292

-

---

## Page 18

14-00000

5501

S661

0220, 100

13 18 4-9÷78

Fat

DAGE

NN 008008

-

8900. 88888.

AND EMIGRAM DOVERMMENTS IN PUSS PLOP, ME ADDED PHAT OP COURSE

MOSTMER ME NOR PRESIDENT ODUBER PLACEU ANY CREDENCE IM THIS CLAIM,

NUIEM THE COSTA RICAN DOVERNMENT HAO INVESTIGATED.

SO ACCORDING TO AMBASSADDR ARANDA, PACIO SUDDESTED TO MIM THAT THE

CHILEAN DOVENNMENT MAKE AN EFFORT TO RECOVER BOSCHIS ALIAS CHILRAN

DOGUMENTATION TRON QUATEMALAN PULSCE AUTHORITIAS, THE DOCUMENT DONE

NOT SAY SAND TOAD DID NOT KNOWI WHY QUATEMALAN AUTHORITIES HAD THI

DOCUMENTS, RUT APPARENTLY BOSCH REMAINED THEN WHEN HE NAB EXBELLED

PRON COSTA RICA.

" STATION DEFERS.

TO MOS ON HOW TO MANDLE THIS INFORMATION,

COPIES OF BOTH DOCUMENTS BEING FOUCHED & NOVEMBER.

"*.:

"Its

...0

L

---

## Page 19

10418710008 06920.10

19 008009

:8A38

38388

LOUDOBEr UBINO FOLLONSMO AS AGTERMATE SOURCE DESCRIPIION 1P

PO STATION IS ATTEMATING PO IDENTIFY SANTIAOD ADDRESS WHICH

APPEROS AS MAROINAL NOTATION A REF & DOCUMENT.

IDENTIFIED MANDHRITING AS THAT OF COLONEL ENRIQUE VALDER PUGA,

VICE MINISTER OF FOREION RELATIONS, MHO MAD DOCUMENT IN MIS

POSSESSION: EVER SINCE IT RECEIVED BY FOREIGN MINISTRY SPUDOUBLE-49

DID NOP: KNON OF EXISTENCE OF REF & DOCUMENT UNTIL 15 OUTODER, WAEN HE

NOTED REPERENCE TO IT IN THE SECOND DOCUMENT DESCRIBED ABOVED,

ADDRESS 18 MIQUEL GLARO 1129. APARTMENT B. AND STATION OPERATING ON

ABBUMPTION AT POSSIOLY BOSCHIS SANTIANO ADDRESSI

05 08680

20109998921 1505-8110 E26 IMPDETO

7.

201-299292

---

## Page 20

29199749

боба

99/40, %s6

B5+003,

lifered not dared

1V0x08019086 690 00

sten#: 88088888 068 96 89008

GIVE CoAces 18230

UNINTEL RIGAT PUDNELL

DO NASCORLETOSI AdOSSI diDONTEO dU d DETONiO PHAT ONLANDO

! DIS-S_M AVILA MAS AOMITINO TO

CONTAÇE MITH ME MONO PRAVI GROTHDAS LA ANANI SNAPLY STORE

THE SUMONG DEATH OF ORLANO LET AL

IN HARMINOTON ON

8S SEPTENDER 1076, NOSO ACEUINEO ADONE AN DISSUBAIONO MITH DISIA

OFFICERS KNOWLEDGEAGLE OF DISIP INVESTIGATION OF BOSCH. AS

•YETATHERE ARE NO AMPLIFYSNU DETAILS ON CONFAGT AND OPPICERS 010

NOT NOTE TO WHOM SPECIFSCALLY ADMISSION HAS MADE.

FILE: 201-89337241 272-1a 20zlds Eês IMPBeT,

88888

4010-299-227

8 CRET

---

## Page 21

OUTGOING MESSAGE

10000000

8983862

cos CLA 8 000

shen, charles, col

HI. GENERA BUREAU OF JOVEST

VLOUPRATINI

- risen cicens

SECRET-PARMING MONTER-SENSITIVE SHELLLIGENCE SOURCES AND ME. HOBS

INVOLVED--MOT NCLCASADLE TO POREIGA MATIONALS"-NOT RELCASANLE TO

CONTRACIONS OF HUCONTRACTORACONSULTANTS V

PIRCI-1681038DD•TN

COMPASY RETUREN ORLANDO BOSSH AND THE NOVO BROTHERS IM

NIANS SHORTLY SEPORE THE ASSASSIMATION OP ORLANDO LETELIER Y

SOURCE OP PARAGRAPH BI A VENCZUCLAM GOVERMNCHT BEMPLOYCE

WHOSE POSSTION GIVIS HIM ACCESS TO OPPICIAL REPORTS ON VARIOUS

SUBJECTS: MIS RELZABILITY HAS MOT BEEN ESTABLISHED. THIS IMPORMA-

TION SHOULD MOT DE DISCUSSED WITH POREIGN OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THOS

10H

ESTHE VENEZUELAN GOVERMMENT. Y

2. SINCE MIS 'ARPEST EN DE OCTOBER ORLAÑDO ORLANDO O O'S E HI

AVILA, CUBAN EXILE LEADER- HAS ADMITTED TO AN¡OFFICIAL OF THE

VENEZUELAN DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND.

PREVENTION EDISIP) THAT HE HAD CONTACT HITH THE SENOVO BROTHERS

I MIAMI SHORTLY BEFORE THE ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO LET ELS&

201-

4.949.2

DO MOT DESTNOT

EVETTOM DI OTHER THAN THE INSUIMO OUTICE 6 PACHIEMIO

IMPĐIT

019p.

---

## Page 22

•14-0eD0

it lists.

OUTGOIN•

MESSAGE

M0:

934175

PORTER STIRAN ANASABOR TO TUE WETCA STATES, SHERLANTES

CONTENTE ASCORZINE TO ANNUMOLA ON PRESS ARTICLES, TOMACIO

AND GUILLERDO. NO NO MAVE OCEM CHARGED BY SEVERAL OF THEIR

COMPATRIOTS IN VINEZUELA AS BLING RESPONSIBLE POR. THE ASSASSINA-

TION OR ORLANDO LATELIER, 35 IS BELIEVED THAT YOUR MEHTA BUREAU

HAS ADDITIQNAL INPOURMATION ON THE NOVO BROTHERS, IGNACIO AND

A2 21

GUILLERMO.JY

DO IGLASSIPIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OPPICER. XEDS-BON

BASED ONE CARACAS 31234 TIN 080249|

UKSCARLET CUKSCARLET -37}

GIAREA.

(TELECOORDS

CraveR 2.9. Bris

*ES SIAPESTS ADDTIONAL DISSETITO YU.

CAN 2? OCTOBER 76

ORIS

BATO LASSE/CH

3471

Elean dors

00845

ATHIA TH

---

## Page 23

14-00000

OUTGOINT MESSAGE

Mº.

SECRET

19-2

30001

JOps

932740

DeSSERA 07. 87

S12 AGcloDo SPS/ITG2

TOP IMMEDIATE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIONE INTELLICENGE

a 132

DIVISION CINTDISS.Y

SICE RE TAVARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED - NOT PELEASABLE TO FOREIGN MATIONALS Y

SUBJECTI

/ARRIVAL, IN PUERTO RICO OF CUBAN EXILE GUSTAVO CASTILLO Y

C8R-336/03983-76 y

MA. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION ACQUIRED ABROAD IS FOR YOUR

INFORMATION AND WHATEVER ACTION YOU DEEM APPROPRIATE. IT IS FELT

THAT THE SUBJECT OF THIS; REPORT MAY BE INVOLVED IN INTERNATIONAL

TERRORISM. ON IS OCTOBER 1976 GUSTAVO...C

APRIL 2996• HAVANA, CUBA, U.S- PASSPORT NUNDER 3764302, ARRIVED SANTO

DOMINGO FROM CARACAS ON VIASi 970. AS CASTILLO LISTED BY LOCAL

AUTHORITIES AS BELONGING TO TERREST EROUP OF ORLANDO " OSE MO

ME WAS NOT ALLOWED ENTER DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: AUTHORITIES PLANNED FO

PUT CASTILLO ON RETURN FLIGHT TO CARACAS, JUT THEY AGGIESED TO HIS

REQUEST TO BE PUT ON AS OCTOBER DOMINICAN AIRLINES PLIGHT LOS TO

¡PUERTO RICO BECAUSE HE IS AN AMERICAN. 'CASTILLO IS REFORTED TO SE

MILITARY

BE CHUBAN NATIONAL LIBERATION PRONT.

IT APPEARS HIS

DATE

DOC, MICHO, EER.

316/0.3921-26

NOV 19 1976

236ct 16

MICROFILMEO

-201-299292

OTHES THAN

SOUIMO OPHICA IA PAGHEREO

RECORD COPY

5.8.

IMPOST

---

## Page 24

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

190

onF:

SEGRET

CIA

пру:

932740

DISSAN BYE

DEPARTURE FROM CARACAS COINCIDES UITH PICKUP Or BOSCH' IM VENERZUELA. 4

CASTILLO WILL BE, SENT SEPARATELY. Y

CLASSIFILD BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER.

XGDS. LiZod

BASED ON: I SANTO DOMINGO SZOOL. Z2 OCTOBER 76.

CABLE SEGS,: PLS MAKE CES COPY AVAILABLE TO IP/AN FOR 203-299292.

194466

pas Ma tro

BATTI

133. OC? 76

TOLE THERET

LA/CAR

1A70

LA/COG.

bARCAR at

#PHONEY

іст дінія інай тио

STELECOORDS

WEEN

SIMPOIT.

---

## Page 25

14-00000

197005 - 294

as are pay on t

130n vari Nor.

MANSE COM

SLAB

т 324692

1090: 52885: 238

Too Tod

AST 45 FR

101

FILE

shops

E14927

epis, ipse, esin: 251

PAGE 21

4480882419263 06T 76

IN 078203

SDOM 17803

SECRE 8 2239422 OCT 76 SPASS

CITE SANTO DOMINGO 17623

TO:! DIRECTOR.

MNINTEL RYBAT FUDWELL

REF: DIRECTOR 931119

1.:

STATION ASSUMES (BASED ON REPORTING FROM CARAÇASS THAT

POSSIBILITY OF CORU INVOLVEMENT IN LETELIER SLAYING IS UNDER

ACTIVE LNERGE INVESTIGATION. CORU LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH LIVED

•IN SANTO DOMINGO SEVERAL MONTHS BEFORE HIS DEPORTATION

ON

29 AUGUST:

MIGH RANKING CORU MEMDER EULALIO FRANGISCO: (FRANKI

CÀST RO PAZ 1201-7423691. A U.S, CITIZEN MARRIED TO A

DOMINICAN, LIVES IN SANTO DOMINGO. VIEW IN EMPYREX AND EMMISÉ.

BASED IN PART ON CASTRO IS PATTERN OF EXTENSIVE TRAVEL LS THAT

ME 1S BOSCHIS CONTACT MAN

AND MESSENGER CARRIER-TO CUEAN RIGNTEST

GROUPS IHROUQHOUT LATIN AMERICA,

PROPOSES CONCENTRATE

ON PEVSLORENG INFORHATIGN ON CORU AND ROLE DE FRANK CASTAVO

INCLUDING POSSIBLE RESORT TO TELEPMONE PAPS, WITH MAJOR

OBJECTIVE OR DETERMININO IS CORU INVOLVED ON ITS OWN OR A

fiLE corr Ton

BEHEST FORGION POWER IN CATELIER MURDERIO

8. POLLOMING CONTAGI SALSATE MIGHT ES ABLE TO CONTRIBUTE

1IN MUT DRATROY

---

## Page 26

14-00000

22 122042

it's

G$ 272

D-E BIEDTISIO

95°:

SE.T

CODi

SUED BLOTTEE

FILE.

VR

324692

E1A987

PAGE 22

TOR: 221940₴

OCT 76

TO EFFORTS.

4.EMPYREX-20

EMFETCH-g

C''" EMCLIFPER-1

Do 1

EMPYREX-?

EMPYREX-B

..

Fo; EMGPANET-1

EMPYREX-14.

PROPOSE FOLLOWING ACTIONS!

15TA9F

lia

13

878163

SDOM 17883

---

## Page 27

14-00000

300188

4=904

STAFFA

DE: FILE.

VR

.

i 3266÷2

PaGE

23-23

+07:221986Z 0CT 76

IN 078163

SDOM

17803

DO: HAVE EMGARNET"I

STEP UP MIS CONTACTS IN

SANTO: DOMINGO AND ELSEWHERE WITH CUSANS KNOWN TO SYMPATHIZE WITH

BOSCHO "NOULD PLAN HAVE ENGARNET-1 TRAVEL TO MIAMI TO CONCENTRATE

ON DEVELOPING LEADS, IN THIS CASE: ME SHOULD BE IN REGULAR

TOUCH WITH KHERALD OFFICER.

E. USE EMPYREX-14

LEADS

FROM KEY CONTACT

TO OBTAIN PHONE: NUMBER!

MAINTAIN CAPABILITY

4." FILES:

+08-12-298/11 281-081118 201-289-2821 281-742563;

EZ• IMPOET.

tiris

---

## Page 28

14-00000

OTMEA

PHAN

PROMIBITED

SECRET

ISSUED. SLOY

STAFF

P3/EG2

molen, clay, does,

s/2se, salse,

6/056, 9/5LA2,

SLOPSITGY-

1 324085) E51383

is!

"IN 877831

-MANA

SE CRÉ T 221454Z OCT 76 STAFF

CITE MANAGUA 1.2534

TOS DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYBAT FUDWELL

REFILE DIRECTOR 951112

•1. FOLLOWING KEYED TO PARA 3 REF REQUESTI

AND BELIEVE ERYTHROL RA MAY BE ABLE TO SHED LiGHT ON

POSSIBLE RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN PERSONS SUCH AS 201•

ORLANDO BOSCO

88729C AND THE NICARAQUAN GOVERNMENT I GONS: YIW FACT

FRESIDENT SUMOZA OPENLY SUPPORTIVE OF CUBAN EXILES AND

THEIR OBUCTIVES, IT PROBABLE HE OR HIS AGENTS, SUEH

AN HANUEL ARE &ME QUESA. NOT ADVERSE TO ALLOWING

AXILEB TO USE NICARAGUA ME A SAFEHAVEN AND/OR SUPPORT

BASS, CURRENT CAN ATPITUDE PERHAPS BEST AXAMPLITIED

BY TARDY ANSHER RE DPARTURE OP B6S B:6292 PROVIDED

DY MATHÃOLD-JO AND HEPORTED TO HOS IN MANAQUA 121006

ALDO LOOK FORWARD TO RACHIOT OF ERHAPPY-S ROS PILE,

GABOUEOTSD DURING COSI

REGBNT MOB YOYS WHO MAY BE

ABLO PROVIDE BOMA VEGFUL ANOJOHI INTO LOGAL EXILE

COMMUNITY.

016

271600576007

els.

---

## Page 29

• 4-00000

S8IN5S IT

PERSONUT DOTINO.

19: ANCE COPY iSSUED ELOTIEO

ACHIN WANT

RF. : FILE.

_SECRET

HUNG GEFRE

STAFFI

VR

AGTION O

9324085

•E1A383

PAGE

TOR12215292_0CT 76

87 78 31

MANA 12538

B. WILL TASK ERYTHROID-IS HITH ABOVE REQUIREMENT:

ALSO PLAN TO DISCUSS MATTER WITH FRUTHROID -33 TO GET CURREN

GON LINE, BELIEVE THIS

• K!

MAY ALSO: LEND ERYTHROID-S TO DISCUSS SUBJECT WITH

ERYTHROID-13 WHO MAY ESTABLE TO ELICIT INFORMAPION

RELATING TO REF.

2. MOULD APPRECIATE HOS DESK RUIEMINO 281 FILES OF

FORMER STATION ASSETS IN EFFORT LOCATE CUBAN EXILE OR OTHER

INDIVIDUAL:NHO IN PAST PROVIDED ACCESS TO LOCAL EXILE COMMUNITY.

• it

13 iN SO9-

-RE PARA I REFI

T

POSSIBLE MANAGUA STATION EFFORTS

MAY TERN

HENF ORBATI ON

fronK CASTAS

INTEREST ON 203-742365

ARPEMINO DY WHAT MEGRATION MÃT TURN UA INSTALL A PLEASE

ADVISE DE SJATION MAY CONDUÉT POLLOHUP INVESTICATION AND HON

INFORMATION ON THIS PERSON SHOULD BE RECORDED IN STATION AND

RAPORTED TO NOS.

MP1L81 808012-308/80 080 IMPORTA

Try do heh

---

## Page 30

14-00000

10V.9D-080

i.5

SECRET.

LA 63

BILE, VR. RESEA PS/EER. LEAN. 1ID, OPS/285 SO CT 4:

SS.4. OSGIC 2_3

ELAZ08

32393*

PAGE dL

'ITORIZZIAGAL OCT 76

IN 977749

< SAGO 35320) -

TDF IRD-335110576-76

SEGRET. 2214838 OCT;

POINTEL

CITE SANTIAGO 35326

TO: DIRECTOR INFO CANAGAS.

WNINTEL

SUPDATA

ERNAHOO FOR MOS REVIEW. PLEASE CALL THE INFORMATION

IN THIS REPORT TO THE ATTENTION OF AMSASSADOR POPPER.

SOURCE PARA SON IS FUDQUELE-498 PARAS 60 7 1S

FUBARGAIN TAKEN FROM SANTIAGO SALAT IND 36300.

RELATED TO ODIKIA, NOT PASSED LOCAL LIAISON.

INDEX: BOSCH AND OTERO, CL BY 84869

F8LE8 15-5-171.

FILEDS 8: 221413₴

XXXXX

JID COMMENTS LIFTER CABLE SENT. SENT ELECTRICALLY TO SES PER DESK REQUEST.

BE 242222

12 NOR DRATHOS

---

## Page 31

14-00000

Intelligence Int nation Cable es peres

WARNING MÜTIO

ENSITI L TELLICENCE SIN ACES AND METHODS LANGLIZO I:

NATI. DO IS ORA, ORA, CHINALl SON DNA TANA ONE 8 LON DO CON PACA I OR L PAGES

ian, o0 ig 1000 cannon

MUATE ONCASION ANO USE OR IS NORMATOR MARCT TO

THIS IS AN UNFORMATION REPORT, NOT FALLY EVAlUATEO NIRWICE,

SECRET

One TONe D8-315110576-16

1"DE ZZIOCTOBER UTA

REPORT GLASS SECRETO MARNING NOTICÉO SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCE SU AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT HELEASABLE TO TOREIGN

MATSONALSIONOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORA

CONSULTANTS

COUNTRYS CHILE

DOS LIE MID-APRIL TO MID-OCTOBER 1976

SUBJECT&UCHILEAN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION ON CUBAN EXILE

LEADERS ORLANDO BOSCH AND ROLANDO OTERO

DILE. SANTINGO 621 OCTOBER 1896) PIGLO NO, MES I6, 772

SOURCE:!

SEE BELOW.

2OT §FIELD COMMENTS

00:?

8º OCTOBER REPORTED THATETHE CHILEAN MINISTRY OF FOREION

APFAIRS MAD BEEN KEEPINDEAN EYE ON THE

_ACTIVITIES Or CUBAN

EXILE LEADER ORLANDO

8O SCHO AND WAS NOW REVIEWING ALL

IPS INPORMATION, PREBUMABLY IN LIGHT OF MIE BSCENT ARRECT SE

VENEZUELAND

ON 18 OCTOBER, FOREIGN MINISTRY OPFICIALS ASSEMBLED

---

## Page 32

14-00000

SECRET:

IDANNO-3451119576-76

Pace a cia pacts

ON SURACT T

A PILE ON GOSEN AT TIE REQUEST OR ADMIRAL PATRICIO

MINISTER DO COMESON APPALASS

THE MILE

CONSISTS RAINLY OF EXCHANGES OF CORRESPORDENCE BETHEEN THE

CHILCON AMDASSY IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RIGA, AND THE CONSIGN.

WINISTRY

CONCERNING BOSCHIS DAGEST IN SAN JOSEJIN MARCH 3976.

AND THE PACT THAT ME MAO CHILEAN IDENTITY DOCUMENTS IN HIS

POSSESSION.

Did.

•PHE DOCUMENTS INGLUDED A BIRTH CERTIFICATE, IDENTITY

CARDO PAR IDENTIFICATION CARD AND PASSPORT, ALL IN THE NAME.

OF RICARDO RAMON DA VINE O GERUTI, THE PASSPORT WAS

ISSURD IN CHILE IN 1900. IANO HAD NEVER BEEN RÈNENED, (SOURCE

COMMENTA CHILEAN PASSPORTS NORMALLY REQUIRE RENEMAL EVERY

THO YRARS.!

THE PASSPORT CONTAINED ONE CHILEAN EXUR STAMP

DATED SOS, AND NO INDICATION THAT IT MAD SUBSEQUENTLY BEEN.

USED TO ENTER OR EXIT CHILE. IT CONTAINED MANY EXIT AND ENTRY

STAMAS INDICATING EXTENSIVE TRAVEL BY ITS BEARER IN CENTRAL

AMERICA AND PAAMA, BETHEEN 1968 AND MARCH 1976, THE PASSPORT

AND OTHER DOCUMENTATION WAS SHOWN TO CHILEAN EMBASSY OFFICIALS

IN SAN JOSE BY COSTA RECAN OFFICIALSO HOWEVER, THE IÇOSTA

RICANO DID NOS GIVE IN DOSUMENTS TO THE EMBASSY OPFICIALS,

---

## Page 33

14-00000

1124471411379

ATIVE LATELL

SCENDE NO ASS MATARA INVOLORD

SECRET

o8 49770

тан30-315110576-76

PACHE 3 OR U PAGES

Di: SOURCE O8 PARASRARMS DO DI

ON MID-ADRIE SOTOO: PUE DIREGTORATE OF NATIONAL

INTELLIGENCE (DINA, RECEIVED INEONMATION PHAS BOSEN HAD JUST

ARRIVED IN CHILE MITH AS CONTRACT TO ASDASSINATE A MI ON LEVEL

CHILEAN GOVEANMEND OFFICIAL CUNIDENTSPIEDI, ACCORDINO TO

DIMA: BOSCH EVADED AN ARREST ACTION ON DO APRIL, ESCAPINO

OY A MATTER OF MINUTES BUT LEAVING DEMIND ALL MIS CLOTHES

AND THO PASSPORTS,

ON 29 APRIL RIDE MONEVER. SUCCESSULLY APPREMENDED

ROLANDO:

OT EAT O HERMANDEZ, AN ASSOGSATE OF BOSCHO HHO ALONG

MITH THE LATTER MAS HANDED AS A FEDERAL PUDITIVE IN THE UNITED

STATES, IN EARLY MAYO DiMA INFORMED THE FEDERAL BUREAU OR

INVESTIGATION FBI, OF OTEROIS ARREST, AND SUBSEQUENTLY

FORMED OTERO EVER TO FEL AGENTS FOR REINAN AND PROCESSIMO IN

THE UNITED STATES, (FIELD COMMENTA HUGOYJZ8 & TDPIRDB-115/

01696-76

D' FROM AN UNTESTEO SOURCE WITH ACCESS TO CUBAN

EXILES REPORTED THAT OTERO WAS PLANNING TO ASSASSINATE

CHILEAN MARXIST EXTREMIST ANDRES PAS E A L ALLEANDE,

AND

PHAT HE WAS WORKING UNDER THE SMONSORSHID OF THE CHILEAN

GOVERNMENTS DINAIS ARREST ANO DEPORTATION TO THE VIGO OF

05-""-1.

---

## Page 34

14-00000

soris 10-325110574-76

VE UTEN CAMARON: DO NO MATACOS AMORICO PACe 400 U PACAS

SECRET

OTERO MANSES

QUESTIONS ABOUT TRE ALLEGATION OF CHILEAN

BOVEANMENT SPONSORSMID OF OTERO AND HIS GROUP, )

BONIESELO CASSEMS EUBASSY AT SANTIAGOI SENT TO CARACAR.

REPORT.

CLASS SECREPO-WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTEGLIGENGE

SOURCES AND METHODS: INVOLVED-ONOR RELEASABLE PO, POREIGN

NATIONALS--NOT RELEASARLE TO CONTRAGTORS OR CONTRACTOR,

COASULTANTS

CLASSIFIED DY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER.

XGS 0d, 2.

ADVANCE COPY TRAISMITTED TO STATE DIA ARMY MAVY AIR JES SUS NSA IS/ID FBI TREAS

CLAMOPSCEN:

---

## Page 35

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

3000828

DABBILABDO

931633

0138"

80%

FEDERAL BURCAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTiNO RiK.

MinderUta

GENERAI, INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION.Y

SEC CRE T--HARMING NOTICE-SINSATIVE INIULLAGERLE SOURCES DIO

METNODS INVOLVED-POT RELCASABDLE TO FORILÚN MATIONALS

P8RCS-111/06327-76

SUBJECTIOULLU OP THE COSTA RICAN CONNUMIST HAPTY OM THE ASSASSINA-

TION OF ORLANDO LETELIER AND SUDSEQUENT ARREST OF ORLANDO DOSCH Y

32.1

DURING THE 23-25 OCTOBER 1976 PLENUM OF THE PUP, SENIOR

PARTY OFFICIALS COMMENTED THAT ORLANDO LET EL IS R. FORMER

CHILE ANBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES, HAD BEEN KILLED DY RIGHTIST

CUBAN EXILES BASED IN ITAMI AND UNDER THE DIRECTION OF ORLANDO

BOS CH AVILA. ONE OF THE PARTY LEADERS SAID THAT THE CHILEAN

MATIONAL DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE CDINAL MÃD DIRECTLY FINANCED

BOSCH'S GROUF IN THIS LAPORT AS IT MAD AGE RREVIOUSLY IN THE

4.035

201-292292

10 800 Dn:

13: 70107

APRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE

SUINO OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

in cal li

IMPDET

#e#e.1117987849

1:dz

---

## Page 36

14-00000

OUTGUING MESSAGE

SES HEA

LIBIDDO

935433

ABORTIVE ANTEMPT IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA, TO KILE INTS ARRAS

PASCAL ALLENDE, PORTER SCERETARY GLUERAL OR THE MOVERGHT OR

THE REVOLUTIONARY LEPT SMIRY. Y

M.*"

..CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OPFICER..

XO05-208

BASED OHI

SAN JOSE ZOOSZ LIN 0833691

HUKUM CHURUM-NE

ODUS

AS OCTOBER 1976

UNITI

• BATI

1476.

ACALAINCA

CALAIRR

CERIA. -

01441

POLAN PINE 00, ARE P0 0 nT.p-d0,

CALANSO

---

## Page 37

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

18-6

3920628

com /LA 8 uno. ne LEbas

-

1934832

070.

2: 97

S612 0003 000/00

CAMBO T

TOI PRIORITY PODERAL BUREAU OP INVESTSGATSONILATINI R.K. MCHARGUER

GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION, DEPT OP STATESYIL/PID, SECRET

SERVICCVINTELLIGINCE DIVISION.U

SECRET-UARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS IN-

VOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FORCION NATIONALS--NOT RELLASABLE TO

CONTRACTORS: OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS-DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OP

IMPORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATORY

PIRC 8352/03225-769

chile

SUBJECT O ADDITIONAL DATA ON CHILEAN IDENTITY DOCUMENTS USED BY

ORLANDO BOSCH AVILAY

HE OBTAINED THIS

IMPORMATION FROM A FOREICH AIRISTRY OFFICIAL MHO SAN THE DOCUMENT..

THIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE DISCUSSED WITH OR USED TO ELICIT INFOR-

MATION FROM OPFICIALS OF ANY FOREIGN GOVERNMENT, INCLUDING THOSE OF

ThE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT. Y

2. SFIELD COMMENTON

DATEI

H6S-10-772 STDFIRD8 325110574-763 FROM THE

UNFPI

LEGRO T

RECORD CUPY

FEFROQUETION DY OTMBA THAN THE ISAVINS OFPICE I3 PEO

290ct76

501-& 99292

68.

CL 8Y8 038953

---

## Page 38

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAUE

oN 0

SECRET

934832

SAME SOURCE REPORTED CHILEAN CONCERN OVER THE LACT RHAY ORLANDO

• O SCIN AVILA HAD OCCH ARRESTED IN COSTA RICA IN CARLY J9R

CARRYING CHICAN EDCATITY DOCUMENTS, THIS REPORT PROVIDES PULL

DETAIUS OF THE INCIDENT AS REPORTED AT THE TINE ON THE CHILEAN ERSASSY

IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RECANDY.

DATES 86 MARCH 1976, ORLANDO BOSCH AVALA MAS

ARRESTED IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA ON SÓ PEBRUARY 297L ON SUSPTERON OP

•CING INVOLVED IN A PLOT AGAINST THE UNITED STATES SECRETARY ON STATE.

BOSCH AS CHARGED WITH HAVING ENTERED COSTA RICA ILLEGALLY USING

DOCUMENTATION IN TAHE NAME OF MECTOR EMILIO RAMON

CINTOLESI.: AS OF S6 MARCH 3976, BOSCH WAS UNDER DETENTION IN

CARTACO, COSTA RICA. THE CISTA RICAN GOVERMMENT BAS STUDYING. THE

POSSTETLITY OF EXPELLING HER BUT MAD BEEN UNABLE TO PIMB A EOUNTRY

WILLING TO ACCEPT HIM N

WHEN ARRESTED, BOSCH WAS CARRYING THE FOLLOWING CHILEAM

•IDENTITY DOCUMENTS:

¿ A BIRTH CERTIFICATE IN THE NAME OF HECTOR EMILIO RAMON

MATTHE CAPISEDO

PARODUC L, BY OMAR THAN THE INBUING OPPICE 8 PA

---

## Page 39

14-00000

MESSAGE

F..

KOTO

Gajaso assason

984832

DAVANIO CONTOLESS, ANALDE MY THE CIVIL REGISTRY OFFICE OPTHE GUIMPA

MORMAL SA SANTIAGO SUBURDS ON A AUGUST 197S. THE CERTIPSCATE MAS

SIGNCO BY ALDERTO 6 A DIA L, A CIVIL REGISTRY, SECTION CHICP, AMD

REPLECTCO A DERTH DATE OF

• AUGUST 3927, REGISTRY MUMBER 953 OF THE

LAS BARRANÇAS SA LOVERNLASS SANTIAGO SUBURBS INSCRIPTION OPPICE, THE

PARENTS VERE IDENTIPICO NE MECTOR

• DAVANZO AND AMALIA CHRIQUETA

CSNTOLESS.Y

B. CHILEAN IDENTITY CARD MUMBER 23574Z2, ISSULD IN SANTIAGO.

THE CARD ALSO LISTED A INX IDENTIFICATION MUMBER OR 2,357:422-5.

AFIELD COMMENTI NO RATELOP ISSUANCE MAS REPORTED FOR THIS ITEMS Y

C. AN AUTOMOBILE TITLE POR À SINÇA 1000, ISSUED BY THE SANTIAGO

PROPERTY REGISTRY OPFICE ON 26 SEPTEMBER 3966 AND BLARING REGISTRY

MUNGER BEB2732. Y-

CHILEAN ORDINÁRY CRED COVERS PASSPORT NUMBER 26563, ISSUED

2S SEPTEMBER 3925, IN THE NAME OF HECTOR EMILIO RAMON DAVANZO

CINTOLESI. -THE PASSPORT CONTAINS PRINTING OFFICE REGISTRY NUMBER

7 45

34441-19751 AND THE SISNATIRES OF VICTORIA MORN DOREN AND

MARIA ELENA SEL MAN AS ISSUING OFFICERS: IT CONTAINS THE

DATE:

sMT:

TATe

RAPROAUETIRN BY OTHER THAN THA ISSUIMO OFFICE IS PAOMIBTTEO

EGRET

1118

Chi BY:

IMPDET

018952

---

## Page 40

14-00000

OUTGOING

MESSAGE

790: 190

934832

APPROPRIATE TAX STAMPS, MATERMARKS, AND SEAL ON THE PHOTOGRAPH. U

SE THE CHILEAN PASSPORT CARRIED BY BOSCH CONTAINED ENTRY AND

CXIT STAMPS INDICATING THE "OLLOWING TRAVEL:

1Ã, EXIT PROM CHILE VIA PUDAHUEL INTERNATIONAL NIRPORT ON

88 DECEMBER 3925.Y

B. ENTRY AND EXIT FROM PANAMA VIA TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT

ON 29 DECEMBER 1975. Y

GO. ENTRY IN EL SALVADOR ON 29 DECEMBER 1975• SFIELD COMMENTE NO

PLACE OF ENTRY OR SUBSEQUENT EXIT UAS RECORDED-2 Y

D. ENTRY IN COSTA RICA ON 2 JANUARY 1976. EFIELD COMMENTI NO

•PLACE OF ENTRY HAS REPORTED SY

;C..

EXIT FROM COSTA RICA AND ENTRY INTO NICARAGUA ON 30 JANUARY.

317h. SPIELD COMMENTS NO MAPLACE OF EXIT OR ENTRY AS REPORTED. 3Y

EXIT FROM NICARAGUA AND ENTRY INTO COSTA RICA ON 6 PEBRUARY

1976, SCRIELD CUNHENP: NO PLACE OF EXIT OR ENTRY WAS REPORTED. ' Y

SOSCH REMAINED IN SAN JOSE FROM bI FEBRUARY 1976 UNTIL MIS

ARRESTION

J0 FEBRUARY 1976.

"ACCORDING TO

SAN JOSE, BOSCH OBTAINED THE FALSE IDENTITY

DAT&!"

ORIOI

EXTI

SECRET

савастати

M PRODUCT OTNER THAN THE LABUMO OFPICE PRE T

6i 56:

---

## Page 41

14-00000

QUIGOING MESSAGE

934832

000

DOCUNCHTS: PRON A FRIEND IN CHILE UHO IS A COLONEL

ONE OF THE

BRANCHES OF THE CHILEAN ARMED PORCES. ESOURCE COMMENTS.

THE SECRET

SOURCE OR THE CHILEAN ENBASSY WAS NOT IDENTIPIED. BUT CONSIDERING THE .

PACT THAT THE SOURCE ALLOWED A CHILEAN EMBASSY OFFICER TO EXAMINE

BOSCHES PALSE IDENTITY DOCUMENTS, IT MAS PROBABLY CONZALO P A CIO,

COSTA RICAN FOREIGN MINISTER. IT IS NOT KNOUN IP IN FACT THE CHILEAN

EMBASSY'S SECRET SOURCE FAILED TO PROVIDE THE IDENTITY OF THE CHILEAN

• COLONEL OR IF THE SUBURSPREPARER. OF THE REPORT PHRÄSED IT. IN THIS

MANHER IN ORDER TO VOID DIFFICULTIES. WITH HIS SUPERIORS-JY

DO THE REPORT WAS SIGNED BY FRANCISCO CR UZ PACHECO, CHILEAN

CHARGE IN SAN JOSE- (SOURCE COMMENTS CRUZ IS NORMALLY THE CHILEAN

CONSUL IN SAN JOSE, BUT WAS CHARGE IN MARCH 1,776 DUE TO THE ABSENCE

eP THE AMBASSADOR ON LEAVE. IN OCTOBER 1976, 95U2 MAS SUDDENLY RE-

CALLED PROM SAN JOSE SHORT OF TOUR, AND IS EXPECTED TO ARRIVE IN

SANTIAGO IN LATE OCTOBER. THE REASON GIVEN WITHIN THE POREIGN

NIHISTRY FOR CRUZ' RECALL IS THAT A NIECE OF PRESIDENT AUGUSTO

PSNO CHET HAD OCCASION TO REQUEST CONSULAR ASSISTANCE PROM MIM

DURING A PRIVATE VISIT TO COSTA RICA, AND FOUND HIN MABSENT FROM HIS

оліві

BROBUGRION BY OTHEN THAN THU

801 299292

IMPDET

oL BY:

---

## Page 42

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SECREI

DISSEM 8T,

934839

PER

OPPICE DURING NORMAL WORKING HOURS.

UNDER CURRENT CONDITIONS IM THE

CHILEAN FOREIGN MINISTRY: THIS IS A PLAUSIBLE EXPLANATION: AND THERE

IS NO CONTRADICTORY INFORBMATION AVAILABLE, JUS

8.: THE ABOVE INFORMATION IS BEING MADE AVAILABLE TO THE UNITED

STATES: AMBASSADORS IN SANTIAGO, CARACAS AND SÄN JOSE AND TUE LEGAL

ATTACHE IN CARACAS.Y

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER XGDS-Z• *

BASED ON: SANTIAGO 35352 IN 0816401

HCS-10,775%

FUSMIRK {FUDOUBLE - 498

OBJ:

DATI

26: OCTOBER 19?6

EXPI

MASERCH

811 ALOPS, CARE

KSALA/PNE

Berchile s

OTHER PHAN THE INSUING APPICK IN

(MP98T

---

## Page 43

14-00000

FBI CABLE

FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: ! .28 OCTOBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION:

SECRET

SUETECT:

VENEZUELAN PROTEST RECARDING 'ALLEGED

IBI INFORMATION WHICH APPARED IN THE

N.Y. TIMES ON OCT. 24, 1976

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN

---

## Page 44

14-00000

Doc:

DIRECTOR 932728

SUBJECT

PLMHBLANKET

SECRET

18800 81810880)

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

or oot.

:22 Oct 76

73

DECOND COPY

6

46

-13

SOURCE INFORMATION

SOURCE CRYPTONYM

'l-date of Into.

INVALUATION

TEXT OF EXTRACT (AlDo ciro doe..

surdon, Disson. No..

PER 20 OCT 76 ISSUE OF WASHINGTON POST, ORLANDO BOSCH IS

DESCRIBED AS A RIGHT -WING CUBAN EXILE LEADER WHO IS ALLEGED TO HAVE

BEEN INVOLVED IN THE BOMBING OF THE CUB#N AIRPLANE: ON 6 /OCT. AND THE

* MURDER OF ORLANDO LETELIER ON 21 SEPT. BOSCH IS APPARENTLY NOW

UNDER ARREST IN VENEZUELA AS A RESULT OF INVESTIGATIONS INTO THESE

ACTIVITIES. THE POST ARTICLE SAYS TIAT SUCH BOSCH IS THE LEADER

OF AN ANTI-CASTRO UMBRELLA GROUP KNOWN AS THE UNITED REVOLUTIONARY

ORGANIZATION. BOSCH IS WANTED IN MIAMI FOR A PAROLE VIOLATION

STEMMING & FROM THB 1968 CONVICTION FOR TERRORIST ATTACKS.

Indicate the subject, Project Or

201 7113 No:

In Which..0h1s

Porn In To Ba

Filed:

DUк1804.90. 8gl

1Lea

Pleas,

BOSCH.

Orlando

Avale

no 8st.

201°

2002021

Listia

18:08

SECRET

---

## Page 45

14-00001

FRI DOCUMENT

DATE: 27 SEPTEMBER 19,76

CLASSIFICATION; SECRET

SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVITA

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D:C.)

---

## Page 46

14-00000

PERSONAANT

ADUANCE COM

ACTION WAIT

LA8

T 3287.32

SECRET

ATEE

ORiONIO

RE:. FILE.

ISTATE,

ETA147

PAGE d1-01

1P0R12110258 ACT 76

355:

488 870568

SUOS

20031

SE CRIE 8 2115A12 OCT

i76 STAFF

CITE: SAN JOSE 28831

TO: CARAÇAS INFO DIRECTOR.

MNINTEL REAM HUFABRIC MNSP IKE

OBTAINING DETAILS COSTA RICAN PASSPORT REPORTEDLY USED BY

ORLANDO BOS CH AVILA TO ENTER VENEZUELA.

HAS TRIED

TO OBTAIN INFO DIRECTLY FROM VENEZUELAN AUTHORSTIES WITHOUT

SUCCESS.

2 ANY DATA CARACAS MAY BE ABLE TO PROVIDE ON THE COSTA

RICAN PASSPORT

WILL BE APPRECIATED.

So FIlE: 281-308789, 18-0-2913. Wa IMPDET

RECORD COPY

D18-6-20/3

21Oc176

291-299-272

---

## Page 47

Terrorist Plot by Rightist Cuban Exiles See

My Jimene Omang

Cuban terrorist plans were discovered

In a raid on a private home in Caracas

CAR.SC'AY,

Yonasuela.

охт.

Vorasualan peltre have

uncovered

uhat they retimo to ho muse ranzing

plane do lighe mina Cuban pulles

-ParTY 10018

sorrerial attaike-in

the.

lindlord: 512908-811-818

Mher: nations,

erroriting los a new paper repuirt here.

Cararas

Vl Narronal said praldo that the al.

bonorf lorreeins

arte

by

anento includend the billine at 1)rtaneles

aloller, Uho former Chllean ambassa.

dus In the Unblert Slatra. In

H'anhins.

month.

the

Bambine

ol a cuhan at

Barbadus Oct.

& The

illed 18 persons.

Venasurian polico

haro already an

• renter a ITOUD of anti Cantro Cubans

inclustinu

right wing

L'uhan

exile

loseler dorlanitos

Rusch, in

connertion

miin tho l'uhan plane crash. ll least

18 persons have boon arreater hy ten-

asualan escarily agents and aboul 30

durinz the intestigallon of the Cuban

plane cragh. The reporeed lertorist

The Ca

has

exiles

ented

lbe

arts uepe planner lo lake plare

L'nited

Stalre.

Venezuel

and Tohajo: Barhado»:

Gusana

were

and. Colombia.

the newspape

said. Pait arts relied to those plans

Inclurter

the

bombing

of

Gusana's

consulale in Trinirad and Tohaso, ar

rett

cording to the nessnaper account.

The wide ranginz terrorist plans re

ported by kil Jacional today were the

latest deielopment in a broad investi.

iz. 157

orates isn

sation in several nations of the Lete-

Her killing. the Cuban plane crash

lenacio

and other incidents.

Lerelier, a former ambassador to

Washingion. foreign minister and min-

ister of defense in the government ot

the late Chilean President

Salvador

Allende, died Sept. 21 who: a bomb

exploded beneath fis car as he drove

along Washington's Embassy Row.

In SYashington; surres close to the

arenerina

United

Liteltee investication

xald Tuesday

" ORLANDO BOSCH

...detained la Venezuela

f'rens International.

that thay expect Brach to be returned

In Warrington. murroe rline. in lhe

¿in the United. States and to be qued

dions

The

quashed on the

stitutional rifts

confesdons mere

Guillermo Soro

in connection with a 1961

cident and stateor

ed to 6

prisonment and 5 jears

more could be

NOTO.)

In Caracks this week a liste

ment source disclosed apparet

between the present

Chite in

Milter

Juata and the Caban exile coman

in fénezuela Critics of le Criterani

gorerumeni hase acerned it in Lakins,

part 10

the Litelier. killin. Chican

officials have desied any link to leit

lier's death ass denouraced

der.

•Tire Venecue!

L0t209s

Triticad

5002r30

Was cartI

the

nor.

ise L'S

spoi

did not

mariful

-—.

Studie

think

Finvestigatlon of thie tomhine death.df

trned ahnut: Letclier's death. A Stato

friemor Amharadile 1, re in tiave said

Ripartment snurce said the Unlied

thas Real la wanted los quersinatre.

States' is urring Venezuela to return

Perat le nul, hnweror, resarded se

bion informally as an undesirable al.

Indo limo as a larkos of the leteller

len rallier. than to z0 through, formal

extradition procedures.

anti-Castro umbrella group known a

the Coordination of United' Revolu

tonary Organizationa He ts wanted in

Bilarl, Fa, for a paroto slolallan

stemming from his 1983 conviction for.

attacke on Pollah and olber forders

true,

there's

helperd

FiRS DITS

Cutan exiles againal

Minisser

sything a

I Nailonal sold thas the rishten?

(Bosets ds the leader of a rightist

The Fashingtons last

20 OctOber 19%6

---

## Page 48

14-00000

•0570

#tila coo

soone LA 0d. 1048

S9.08 8.

т 328620:

_FILE

CINEGACKAS

chem clan

C/P/6г

PAGE 8 JO81

L TORI 2425038 OCT 90

'IN E90S86

CARA

31198

SEGRET I LASE OCTITO STATE

CITE CARACAS 31192

TOS PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

AN INTEL RYBAT MHSPIKE KASTONE

SO AMBASSADOR WOULD LIKE TO HAVE AT OUR EARLIEST CONVENIENCE

RESUME OF ORLANDO B 05G M'S TRAVELE FROM BEGINNING OF 3974

TO PRESENT, HE IS PARTICULARLY INTERESTED IN ALLEGED TRIP TO CHILE

MHICH VENEZUELAN MINISTRY OF INTERIOR CONTACT MAS MENTIONED DURING

TALK ON CUBANA BOMBING CASE.

•GILE: 201-0299292.

:.?.

MonT

PREPARE FOR TARING

TEN 02 12, 21

CAST CAN 111)

090(01

RECORO COPY

201. 298212

21: 008 76

---

## Page 49

14-00000

marcoachos

DO MICU MUT EXTRAC!

THE FOLLINIT

nAssIEa

MFEY

PFASTAS

=NAMING

MENT

IYFIRMATIDY

FAVO

MANI

FROM: IPIFILES.

BOSCH.

PAL APHIN

801-10204888

SEX M:

CIT. GUNA

F0.10

AMIATIFA DFFICIAI

MIDAAARE

D'ES

ARf

CONTINEN TINET

WAS

PREDANEN CUNTANS!

41:0190.8.81

THE SIARDICT AND SOWILD AF

#: 418458411

J

CARABILAY

20 MET

HVC-O73ZZ

REST VENE.

CURAN

SHAS DIRECTLY

RESPONSIRLE

FOR

76 BOMHING

OF CURAMA

AIRL INFR.. CUMANS

HILL REDIEST HE

RE

TURNED IVEP TO THEM FOR

PROSECUTIUN

CUBAN

СПУН

INTrONS TO LIOUIDATE

SUM 1 FITHER WITH IR

WITH-

OUT QUE PROCESS OF LAW!

DATE OL NOV

76

09446974

201- 299292

E2

IMPDET CL MY 05497

---

## Page 50

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE 1-E

Tea"

R0S880

TRY HAT

OPSIITOY

930679

23e8806

219

TOBI PRIORITY LONDON.

UNINTEL REAN MASPIKE PRACE Y

REPS!:

A. CONDON PIES" (1169I43)

D DIRECTOR 112974 Y

DO RE REP AU HES HIS EXTENSIVE TEACES. ON ORLANDO

POS CH AVILA 8801-02992928, WHO IS LEADER OR CUBAN EXILE

TERRORIST ORGANIZATION AND BELIEVED TO DE A "U:S. PERSON"..NE

ASSUME BOSCH IS THE BUSH OF REF A- SINCE BOSCH IS BELTEVES TO

BE A "U.S. PERSON", MONEVER, HE MUSAT COMPLY WITH REF & BEFORE

PASSING INFO

TO LAGUARD Y

D. PLEASE PROVIDE THE DETAILS AND JUSTIFICATION REQUESTED

IN REB SO VE CAN PROCESS JAGUAR'S REQUEST. Y

SN. FILE: 203-0299292. E2. IMPDETON

LA CONMENTS REF AS REQUESTED PRIORITY TRÄCES ON BOSCH FOR

PASSAGE TO JAGUARA

REP Bi

BoOK CABLE Canad

HAD PROVIDING GUIDANCE TO

STATIONS AND BASES ON COLLECTION OF INFORMATION

CONGEFHING "U.S. PERSONS" 3!

20 ActiL

211-244292

DATIN! OCTOBER 86

ARiBil

17808/2413

RECODE COPTER MEE

CURTEE

остатятто всіі

N BY 00

HEA THAN THE LESUIKE CPRICE ID PROMI

IMPĐET

---

## Page 51

14-00000

10:000 M

PATER NOTICE AERITIZIRS OR :

19081

rosl

в отов

814849071

10200

003 10 008. #6 F6

1420607091801

CRA

тоо

ares 850 1

оть сей вьяво

0681888808 oR l

6 пол стА оті

sarcaster

Poodles

Tha dally pants ens

обо том

RAVANA COM

хотобо і

(8хотово!

BITANT BESATRO DIE MITH: RASE &N

001O SATUICO In 80-X0S 1730 0N3 18.008 76 T1

toniso acmentary vy hafans Doradl

поти8--томл "3 аппокпсат)

pete a yo per holdo a ponte dranto race to ana

ODATOR 8DA OPRATO Os EDA 88 1110R Helnason HiLos.

sua contral: Incalligence annieg, union vas areated as the and of the decado.

• has on 1ta offlolal fenotion the centraliration of

of:

a1fTerent HOTth ANATIOn ANDIORaÇO OrEAnIRASIOns tO PAoli

sut tea dock "yon calt of Intollleanoo" by Vlotor Merchatts, a PerenT hin ase offlolad,

admonsesses that anorffolally the pandemental alasion of the eganog le te deso, ot

too sposeion of the troniden union, 19 Saplenantos by ostier publio bodide, coula i

11891 cultied.

shan though 16|reorults all typos of carcenaries, tha estabilabad

of the STA agent 18 the lane stereotypo of the suppeaed duperian of the 88

rooFa Unsa Dy:8rs Parrisas proparanda..

urine is jar resinst the Vlotnanase people, tha United seases confined 1n 10-on11a

trasonia haulato entira papalatione of sothern peasente tha tara gardinlis be so

inder the cutely of 6191l1er8 workins for sha asonor.

spassad dopertuent os the jontral Intelligance Agendy has one oxoluasro:

task of

argins. us notiona that soroat: 1tü orlainal nature

suon as coups d'otat

abroad,

of ¿deiro and obnö

Assassy the oza orrera ourseling to reottonery realso in the dotholo sorgure on

opparents, Tha siniator traditions

of the s8 troops and lua nodorn continuadar...

0.0.

contras int0d11ean00 Agonor, colnoide in tany conorato

---

## Page 52

14-00000

dл proceso

do de 8 00

snasado of 190: 00110es

• BLA18200 A LeA

SING aND 0F8U61100:

ка 1808

Cooleras 880 800!5

власто:.

& Pereas

P00 BN0 RA3I COACATAROSIO

DOCATE RECUTTIST DO LA CRALALES ARE 1I

ios bonsest 6 вативко ча.

ARONES 8888 MR 19 068!

W: 1

100as1

Dada Boday

en thoser.

Витода

B8A808

2088000

,"ста

and 8001p nos des

1 00 d11LA1EY 1

СпАЛ: 8880888800

contagione outtarad a

хоратво от

¡Вто гастарлов

DOpATEBIOn Of enO DUDe,

Of CADICAL SAMBASIONS.

Doon dolinastes in 820 un cssreeT

8800

от 8h0

sodener

HOODING &hiS

1. at:

Leonid

LapORaIDLo, AlPanDO padd.

1 In othar. places.

1'S MININO OT HERGEMARTE

parten 0000 80x 20 008 T6 VL

th01s

me an a sood.

to bo

in

nati

2.10.10?740

Merent

iapor1a11an bead

by the unsted Statos has Inero

rosarted to the

Missano of unromanies.

to attack legitinatoly conatituti

od soverminants or paóplos

ling poT Proadon. " lat us rocall, por oxeaplo, shat in

lan, saon, and

In the CrA recrasted viat 1t onshenlatically terred 1i

is farcos to

st in 16s afforte to, oraah the sassive insurrection ar cha Indochinese peoplar

Beno asgapied by she oncuy.

sho

covernsent of Patrioo lamiaba in: EDo condo, a governiano de-

ad to and the terribla anonone and sodial astuation of the African population

by: the 859098 40t1ns o8 8haainin@trananatsonala.and.centursos of colondat

XY

loldation, the imporis

LInEA alDO unod parconary aratoni

The

know today

{ro;

foreori balgien

bondinues do Day the consequ

Bios thie

se daire

---

## Page 53

14-00000

201- 299292

20/5

12721

ELA IMPOET CL BY 054979

-'41

20.00.184F VP

FAYZACY

THF

FALLINIPS

MASSIFI

11A 5,

CONCERNIV

MARTIN FAM

sira geey

201

AFFICIAI

"))

FILE.

P68:5)9.5

PEPF?R

AN F

CA'TINNFT ITHAT

P. 4 E

MENT

IOFDOMATIT

EXT?

NAS

CONTAIS ADOTTIINAL

PrETAINING TO PAS SURDEEP ANO SHOULO DE REQUESTED

_FOOM JOREILES.

BASC',

I LANDO

208-0242272

_SEX.

TH

CARA-3ILT4

19 098

iCIT. CUBA

HVC- 17521;

23.

EXILE LEADER CURRENTLY

"INDER DETENTION AN

VENE

AUTHURITIFBT

THE

HOMAING

¿OF_

A CURANA ATELINER 6 OCT 16.

MET WITH LUISI

POSADA 1201-03309856 IN COSTA RICA IN

LSHOOTLY BEFOSE_=@MING TO_VẸVE•__

RES VENER

DATE 27 OCT 176

09646117

64861244

477.

---

## Page 54

14-00000

STATE CARLES

FROM AMEMRASSY CARACAS

DATE: 19 OCTONER 1976

CLASSIFICATION: | CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECI: VENEZUELA COVERAGE OF CUBANA CRASH AFTERMATH

FROM AMEMBASSY SANTIAGO

• DATE: 19 OCTORER: 1976

CLASSIFICATION::

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: INTELIER ASSASSINATION: ORIANDO BOSCH

---

## Page 55

14-00000

ramadar,

s028500.840.

lis

-...

8гоsто

ACTIN

LA 13

SETION

SECRET

F1UF, IR, ED, PS/EG2, IP/iY, IID, OPS/IST'S

CI 4, S5 4. SS/SOG 4. OSGIC ZO OPS/ITE 4..

FR S

T 314352

-EAC26

!.!

PAGE 01

TOR81817572 069 766

IN 873658

CARA: 3:178

SE GRET 1915102 OCTING INTEL

TDF IRD@-315110454-76

•HV6-7521

CITE: CARACAS 3117A

TO, DIRECTOR INFO PORT OF

SPAIN.

WN INTEL INTEL KMSTONE.

Chite

SUPDATAI

ERWANDO FOR RESOLUTION CARACAS 31137, SOURCE

DESCRIPTIONO AND RELSABILITY STATEMENTO HIKDIET-S.

SOURCE PARAS 2Ö3 MKMAYOR

¡SOURCE. PARAS

SOR NP/WKDIETO: FROM

SOURCE; PARAS 10-128

• SOURCE DESCRIPTION FOR APPROVAL.

FILEDI

19/1516₴

XXXXX

190cr

LIFTER SENT • PERLA INSTRUCTION, FOLLOWING DELETED FOM SECOND

SENTENCE OF FARA WTO THAT IN TEXT.

"HE EE A PASPLY RELIABLE

REPORTER."

---

## Page 56

14-00000

101949-949 179

In aligence lafrarion Can

Seen Me False long ways bergean

0 073÷39

FURTHER EISCEMINALIOIS AS USE OF TIMS INFORMATION SUSICI TO

CONSONS STARED AT SESSING DED END CENTION:

THIS IS AN INFOTANTDE EFOIT, ROT MIEY EVATENED THE SOFTLE

SECRET

CE ToRRDO 385110454-766

DISTR OCTOBER 197"

REPORT CLASSS E CRE IT WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASASLE FOR FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

COUNTRY:

VENEZUELA

0O1s

MID-OCTOBER 1976

SUBJECTE

VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT ATTEMPTS TO TLE THE SOCIAL

CHRISTIAN PARTY TO INDIVIDUALS LINKED TOLTHE BOMBING

OF A CUBANA AIRLINER

ACO8

VENEZUELA,- CARACAS 118 OCTOBER 1976) FIELD NO. MV6O2521

SOURCE:

SEE BELON.

SUMMARYA OFFICIALS OF THE DI 'ECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OS

INTELLIOENCE AND PREVENTION POISIRI HAVE BEEN ORDERED TO FULLY

INVESTIGATE THE VENEZUELAN CONNECTIONS TO TAP 6 OCTESER 1878

COMBING OF A CUBANA TALINER, UNOFIFICIALLY, HOMEVER, DISIP

OFFICERS: HAVE BEEN INSTRUCTED ! BUILD A CASE LINKING COPE! TO

-PHOSE INDIVIDUALS IMPLICATED

THE INCIDENT, ON THE OTNER

HAND DESIR OFFICERS FEAR TIMi d ORMATION LiNKING SONG dISEA

OFFICIALS TO CUBAN EXILE ORLANDO DOSCH MIGHT BECOME PUBLIC

KNOHLBOGS: EMBARRASSINO THE GOVERNMENT AND PURTHER TALNTINO.

0888P.

AND OF SUMMARY"

• 110:

---

## Page 57

14-00000

$ 15

SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 2038 A VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

• EMPLOVEE UHOSE POSITION GIVES HIM ACCESS PO OFFICIAL REPORTS

ON VARIOUS SUBJECTS. HIS RELLABILITY MAS NÖT BEEN ESTABLISHED.

• THIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE DISCUSSEE WITH ANY FORE SN

OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THOSE OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT.

2. MMILE OFFICIALS OF THE DIREGTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF

INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION DISSP) HAVE RECEIVED OFFICIAL

INSTRUCTIONS TO CARRY OUT A COMPLETE INVESTIGATIÓN OF ALL

VENEZUELANS CONNECTED WITH THE 6 OCTOBER 1976 BOMBING OF A

CUBANA AIRLINER, UNOFFICIALLY DISIP OFFICERS HAVE BEEN ORDERED

TO CONCENTRATE TREIA INVESTICATION ON MENDENS OR THE SOCIAL

CHRISTIAN PARTY PROPELD, DISIP OFFIGIALSO THEREFORE. HAVE

DRAMN: UP A LIST OF LOM TO MEDIUM-LEVEL OSPECIALS OF COPE:

WHOM DISIP INTENDS TO TIE IO LUIS_P OS AND A, A FORMER DISP

OFFICER' WHO IS CURRENTLY UNDER DETENTION IN CONNECTION WITH

PHS BOMBINDO AS CURRENTLY PLANNED, DISTO FUL REGIN PICKING

UP THESE COPES LEADERS TOR QUESTIONINO DURINO THE WEEK OF

16 OCTOBER, ISOURCE COMMENDA ALTHOUGH POSAGA DOES HAVE COPES

CONNECTIONS, MOST DISIA OFFICEAS DO NOP DGLIUVEUTHATICOPEI

...

LOVED A POLM IN POSADAIS ANTS-CUBA ACTIVITIES:

RATHER THEY

4ena, 24.

N 0.3859

TORR DE-535135454-76

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS LATOLIED:

PAGEZ ON 6 PAGES

SECRET 1

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE DA THIS INFONMATION SUBJECT 1E

: CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

---

## Page 58

14-00000

A 073859

DeaF -335/39054-71

MANNING NUTIC.

SIT. AILL ICENCE ANCES AND LETTICAS INTOLIED

PAGE 3 OF 6 PAGIS

SECRET

FURTHER DISSELASLATICIA AÑD USE OF THIS: INY ORMATION SUPIECT TO

CONTRO'S STATED AT BEGINIUNG AND ENU OF REPORT.

BELIEVE THAT THE GOVERNHENT IS ASTEMPTING TO SMALICATE COPEl

FOR POLITICAL FINSONS:!"

*3:

AT THE SAME TIME THAT IT IS WORKING ON ITS CASE

AGAINST COPEL, DISIP OFFICIALS ARE CONCERNED THAT INFORMATION

CONNECTING DISIP OFFICIALS AND CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO

BOS:CH, MILL BECONE PUBLIC, SUCH REVELATIONS, DISER OFFICERS

BELIEVE MOULD BE HIGHLY EMBAPRASSSING TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRESA PEREZ AND DISASTEROUS FOR DISIP.

WHICH HAS RECENTLY BEEN HURT BY CHARGES OF MISTREATING PRISONERS

ACCUSED OF BEING INVOLVED IN THE KIDNAPPING OF HIULIAM

FE NIEHOUS.

SOURCE OF PARACRAPHS -B1 A VENEZUELAN WITH CLOSE

CONTACTS AMONG VENEZUELÄN SECURITY OFFICIALS!

HIS RELIARILITY

MAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED.

-SO ON 1A OGTOBER DIS IP DIRECTOR RETIRED GENERAL RAUL.

DIMENER DAINZAAO THAT PRESIDENT PEREZ MO ORGSIED WIM

TO CARRY OUT AN EXTENSIVE iNVESTIGATION OF THE VENEZUELAN

CONNECTION IN THIS GUERMA INGIDENT, ALTHOUGH @SMENEZ SAID THAP

HE INTENDED TO CARRY OUT THE PRESIDENT'S ORDERS, HE PERSONALLY

PEARED: PHAT SUCH AN INVESTIGATION MIGHT LEAD TO PREBIDENTINL

APPOINTEES OR TOCOPEL LEADERS, IN EITHER CASE, DIMENEE SAID

---

## Page 59

14-00000

8590. 3007 0910iEH ONOES

# 073859

TOAR 08-315/20454-76

"MARNIG NONCE

BENSTIVE INTELLCENCE SOVACES AND METHODS LOO

I PAGEL OF B PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DiSSEMINATION AND

#:H5 INTORMATION SUS'ECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT'E

•5 AND END OF REPCRT.

dio 15

THAT HE FELT THERE COULD BE DIFFUCiTIES FOR THE PEREZ

ADMINISTRATLON.

•. IN THE FIRST INSTANCE, GIMENEZ SAID NE WAS PERSONALLY

CONCERNED THAT ORLANDO G

ARCIA , "RESIDENT PERE?!

INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY ADVISER NHO HAS BEEN ACTING AS DE FACTO

HEAD OF DISIP, MIGHT BE IMPLICATED, ESMENEZ QUICKLY ADDED,

HOWEVER, THAT THERE HAS NO EVIDENGE LINKING GARCIA TO THE

BOMBING INCIDENT, BUT THAT HE IS KNOWN TO BE INVOLVED IN

UNSPECIFIED ANTI-CUBAN GOVERNMENT ACTIVITIES. GIMENEZ SAID

THAT AS AN ADDED PRECAUTION HE HAS ASSIGNED SPÈCIAL GUARDS FOR

8O SEM AND POSADA, BOTH OF WHOM ARE GURRENTLY UNDER DIS IP

DETENTION • V

? PRILO COMMENTO FOR AN EARLIER REPSAT ON BOSCHIS RECENT

• ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA AND POSADAIS AND GARCIAS'S CONNECTION WITH

MIM SEC MVC-7914, TDPIRD0-S19/18250-96, PROMA USUALLY RELIABLE

REPOATER. IN NEWS BROADCASTS A LOGAL TELEVISION STATION CHANNEL 21 MAS

REPORTED THAT SEVERAL INDIVIDUALS CURRENTLY HOLDINO PUSS" ONS:

GARAGANDHIA DOSINI THEISTATION

PUDICATED THAT IT WOULO REVDAL PHE ICENTIPINS OF THESE OFFICERS

AP A LAPOR DATA, I

* *7:

---

## Page 60

14-00000

N: 073859

FoRt B$-435425454-76

VARSING NOTICE:

SENSITILE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS I:TOIVED

PAGE 5 OF 6 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEAIATION AND USE OF THIS INTOR'AATION SIRJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

80:

AS FOR A POSSIBLE COPEl CONNECTION WITH THE CUBAN IXILE

MOVEMENT IN VENEZUELA, GIMENEZ DENIED THAT HE OR THE PEREZ

ADMINISTRATION ARE ÄTTEMPTING TO IMPLICATE COPES IN THE

INVESTIGATION FOR POLITICAL REASONS, THE FACT 1S, GIMENEZ SAID.

MANY PEOPLE WITH COPET CONNECTIONS APPEAR TO BE INVOLVED IN

THE CASÉ AID THEY MAY HAVE HAD THE BACKING OF UNSPECIFIED

COPE LEADERS, (FIELD COMMENTO VARIOUS SOURGES HAVE

INDEPENDENTLY REPORTED THAT VENEZUELAN AUTHORITES HAVE FOR

SOME MIME BEEN CONVINCED THAT POSADAIS PRIVATE INVESTIGATION

COMPANY: KNOWN AS COMMERGIAL AND INDUSTRIAL INVESTIGATIONS PIGS

HAS BEING USED BY COPER:>

WO, SOURCE OF PARAGRAMS 100111 AN AD PARTY ACTIVIST WITH GOOD ACCESS

TO HIGH LEVELS IN THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENTO ME IS A USUALLY RELIABLE

SOURCE...

200: THE VENEZUELAN QOVERNMENT 1S AWARETHAT GARGIA AND

POSADA TRAVELLED TO COSTA RICA TOGETHER SHORTLY BEFORE BOSEM

CAME TO VENEZUELA FROM COSTA RICA IN SEPTEMBER.

OF THEIR TRAVEL TO COSTA RICA WAS TO MEET HITH OSCH,

Y S8. THERE 1S CONSERABLE CONGSAN WITHIN THEVENEQUELAN

GOVEANMENT BECAUSE OP THE RELATIVE GARDE NUMBER OF CURAN EXILES

R

---

## Page 61

14-00000

90-3007 osayin

IN 1 073859

T0F1R: 28-335/10454-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE. INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND SETHOUS INtELVED

PAGE bOF L PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE: OF THIS INFORMIATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

HOLDING POSITIONS OF INFLUENCE WITHEM THE VENEZUELAN SECURITY

SERVICES, FURTHERMORE: THERE IS GROWING ALARM WITHIN THE

GOVERNMENT THAT THESE EXILES MAY HAVE GOTTEN VENEZUELA INTO A

DIFFICULT SITUATIONO

12.

FIELD DISSEMO, EMBASSY AT CARACAS: SENT TO: PORT, OF SPAIN,

REPORT CLASS SECRET O WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRAGTURACONSULTANTS.

GLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-?,

---

## Page 62

14-00000

dea one

RY 060

cou are one or y

ADVANCE

ACTION UNIT

48

т 314727

_ PER_

IOTAL COPIES

1212

SECRET.

AlIN

чтоя

STAFF

EXA398

PAGE DI

#TORII9ZRBZZ DET 76

SECRET 1919427

OCT. 76 STAFF

GITE SANTIAGO 35307

TOO DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL INTEL

REFIE: DIRECTOR 885958.

REF PROVIDED A SUMMARY

PAL ANDON

• O SICH AVILA, COULD MOS PLEASE PROVIDE THE SOUMGE

FOR THE APRIL 1976 PORTION REFERRING TO HIS ALLEGED

PRESENCE IN CHILE TO ASSASSINATE A HION LEVEL CHILEAN

OFFICIAL AND FACT THAT HE ESCAPED AN ATTEMPT TO ARREST

MIMÖ LEAVING BEHIND A CHILEAN AND EGUADOREAN PASSPORT.

QI EMBASSY MAS A PEPORT SEE BEPARATE TELECHAND

THAT THE PORCION MINISTRY IS REVISHING ALL INFO INITS

PILES; ON BOSCH.

SPATION WILL TRY TO OBTAIN MORE ON THIS

FROM FUDOUBLEONE OR OTUSE APPROPRIATO SOURCED

PILE1 201-209292. N2 IMPORT

• 90n.

IN 8738j2

SAGO

35507

REGOROM COTT

1900t16

901-299242.

---

## Page 63

OUTGOIC MESSAGE

13=

ont ofe

3200

8803202

com C/193 mo: ns 000, 000/00,

e/LSN/ IP, EPPS

та8:

29с0squ p. 45

men sol

132

"PRIEN

its?

POZYLINTELLIGENCE DIVISIONARSS/ID.V

SECT CO WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED LOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIRE NATIONALS MOT RELLASABLE SU

TO CONTRASTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS V

SUBJECT: FRANK CASTRO Y

C1R-336/20-041-76 40

REFERENCE IS MADE TOSTOFIRDA-335/0369L-76 UHICH PROVIDED

INFORMATION ON A POSSIBLE ATTENRT ON THE LIBFE OF A RELATIVE OP

FORMER PRESIDENT OF CHILE: ALVADOR ALLENDE, TO BE CARRIED OUT

SOMETIRE SOON AFTER 12 FEBRUARY S9760 ONE OF THESENDEVEDUALS REPORTEDLY

INVOLVED IN THIS ATTEMPT, UHOSE MANE DOES NOT APPEAR IM THE FOREGOING

DISSERINATIONS IS FRANK CASTRO, CUBAN EXILE WHO HAS NATURALIZED AS

US CITIZEN IN NOVEMBER, 3921 AND UHO IS HELL KNOWN TO DUR FOI-Y

2O CLASSIRIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OPFICER 2 EXEMPT FROM

EMERAL DECLASSIPICATION SCHEN OF EID. 30602 EXCURION CATEGORY

88 82%. IMPOSSTOLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.

BASED: ON CARAÇAS 31619 VIN

PROJECT&SOURCES!

NP/UKSCÄRLET-B

LENT HOGWERE

Joy petes

ANTI

RECORD COPY

BUNG CAT 101

ОНСТЕЙ РУ ОТИЛА ТНАМ

ATTATUEN

---

## Page 64

14-00000

OUTGOINL

MESSAGE

SECRET

808789

learns.

pan tom

RIST, HOWARD BRUSAKERTA

UNITON

BATI

Ill Chiropo"

PAPROD TON Or OTHER THAN THE ISONMO GAIN LO: MUTOR.

18B.

IMPOET

---

## Page 65

14-00000

FSI CABLES

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

PRIS:

16 OCTOBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION: AIUO

SUSPECTED BOMBING OF CUBAN AIRLINES

DC-8 NEAR BARBADOS, WEST INDIES, OCT 6,76

RRON DIRECTOR FBI

•MATS 16 OCTOBER 1976

MASSIFICATION: AIUO

SURJECI:

SUSPECTED EOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINES DC-8

NEAR BARBADOS, WEST INDIES, OCT: 6, 1976

---

## Page 66

14-001

Cuban Exiles Arrested

In Crash of Airliner

'¡CARACAS, Venezuela,' Oct. 14 (AP) Ven

luthoritles announced tonight the arresis. of Ci

bena Airlines crash. that killed 13 persons ne

adle leader Calando Bosch and several' other

' sons in' connection with the Invertigallon at a

Ailand of Barbados.

i The Interior Ministry

sald evidence. had

furad linting one of those aitested:" Cuban

Venezuelan cittzen Luis Posada Carries, with

velizuelans belag held in Port of Spaln, Trin

in connection with the Oct 8 creass.

The DeR it Santed eared explan

Sanada, reported, explasions:

ward and plunged into the sea olf Barbilos shca

cakeo! tom bridgetown arpor..

24050

¡chrissaid later that sabotago was a

group calling disoll El

Herald and cinimod it had

oard the alocrat.

the United States fer!

ared attacks laid to exilo.

organization. Federal laver,

Fallo Orlando

slon, indicai

Waring

put

is out

---

## Page 67

14-00000

SEC

живитео

STArT PRECEDENCE

LAS

8 394787

FiLE

WRY

PAGE BLOBS

: 90R81512518 OCT 26

SE CR T 1511352 OCT NO STAFF

CITE LONDON 19210

TOs PRIORITY DIRECTOR,

AKULE REAM MMSPIKE TRACE

*i D

do.

VAGUAR REQUESTED PRIORITY

ONE. ORLANDO

RUSH (PHL. ONLY INTO ON SUBJ IS HE LEADER OF

CUBAN EXILE

TERRORIST ORGANIZATION,

3O FILE DEFER, EZ IMPDET

069003

LONO 19214

4,19

RECORD COPY

1570c416

201-299272

---

## Page 68

14-00000

ISSIFICATION

TERISMITTNL

OF

TOFIR INFONMLATION REMART

HARRIET VEILER

LAY PACA/R

9434:

• OCTOBER : 976

OrsiINT S HQ A. 1O d.

LA 28

OSCHIE 2, IB

SECRET

but dot.

TDFIR: D9-335/20256-76

PRECEDENCE

DAi DISTRIRUTED

XI ROUTINE 1

1L'OCTOBER 1976

ASSIMHLAHOM

JA/PICAC

HVC-7514}

DOLLA

LA/CARA

CARÁCAS 31117 (IN 069101)

LANCA!!

NKMAYOR (WKSCARLET-S)

WARR

LAL Sa

OBJ: J

LAZREG

LA/PNC/Y 2

LAZPNC/PLI

HANDUNO INSTRUCTIONS - PLACE: X IN APPROPRIATE SPACE

TO LIDI STATE, DIA, ARMY NAVY:

AIR, SCS, NSAi

LAISONI

DISSEM ELECTRICALLY TOR

SWS: CIA/OBSCEN, TREASURY, SS/ID. FBI.

< IID COMMENT: ADVANCE TOPY TO SIG CENTER

FOR ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION AT 2375 HRS LOCAL US;

DX ERWAHOO UPTER CABLE SENT

PORT OF SPAIN, GEORGETOWN, KINGSTON, MEXICO

SANTO DOMINGO, SANTIAGO,

MANAGUA, GUATEMALA CITY,

PANAMA CITY,

O ExcLusivE FoR

чех.

Momen

• I RELY CABLE PREPARED

with entre sep

м інн

NOT RELEASABLE TO

FOREIGN NATIONAL

NOT

RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR

CONSULTANTS

• NOT FOR LIAISON

REPORT CLASSIFIED BY,

039133

ES INTERNAL USE aNY-

REMOVE

UTHENTICATINO OFFICI

COORDINATINO. OFFICES

/C/LA/PNC/R

EVASSINCATION

СЬ ВУ 007682

& 8 LAPDET

SECRET

i legs

IK-Y: MEN MIVIONA CANTION!

---

## Page 69

14-00000

mais

SECRET (bRa Filiad la)

Intelligence Information Cable

@PRIORITY

WARNING NOnC

SN 069103

NET'S INTILLICENGE SOURCES AND METHODS DIVOLVE

EM SOI ENCA NA TEAS MICA DOO NO CU PROEI DE S PACES

=-

THIS 15 AN INFORMATION BEFOKT, NOT INALY. EVAIUATED INTELICENCE

SECRET

•OnE ToPin: D8-115/10256-76

DAST I4E RETOBER 1.976

REPORT CLASS SE EM E T- HARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES ANO METHODE INVOLVED--NOT RELEÁSABLE TO FOREIGM NATIONALS--

NOT RELEASABLE Fa CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

COUNTRY VENEZUELA/CUBA

LATE SEPTEMBER 12 OCTOBER 1976

SUBUECT&

ACTIVATLES OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH DURIND

THIS STAY IN VENEZUELA.

AVENE QUÉLA, CARACAS (1S OCTOBER 19761 FIELD NO.

{HYG• 7314

SOURCEN

'Y FORMER VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL NHO STÄLL MAINTAINS

CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS WITH GOVERNMENT OFFICIALSO ME 18 A

USUALLY RELTABLE REPORTER, THIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE

DISCUSBEO HITA ANY FOREION OFFICIALS, INCLUDSNO THOSE

OF THE VENENUELAM GOVERNMENT.

¡FIELO COANENTICION LATE SEPTEMBER 1976 A USUAGLY RELLABLE

SOURCE REPORTED PHAT CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO O OS CM WAS EN

VENEAUSCA UNDEA THE PROTECTION GE VENEQUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS

CANORES PO A E AO PUATHERMORE, FEREA NÃO APPOINTED HIS DECURITY

VAND INTELLIDENCE ADVIGER ORLANDO O A REI A POPROTEGT AND A8818P

MUG-1690, TEFIRAE-369/0I074 0960

IN HUGORGADO PONARDG-818/09490-7611

---

## Page 70

14-00000

N 069303

ToFiR DB -735/37256-76

PAINING NOTIC

ENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVE

PAGE 2 OF 5, PAGES

SECRET

FUITHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

US MID-SEPTEMBER, A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY

REPORTED THAT BOSCH ARRIVED IN VENEZUELA ON APPROXIMATELY, 13 SEPTEMUER.;

2O UPON HIS ARRIVAL IN CARACAS, MOSCH HAS MET AT THE AIRPORT

•BY GARCIA AND LUIS CLEMENTE POS A DAO 1 PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR

AND ONE-TIME MEMBER OF THE SIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE

FAND PREVENTION DISIP SINHO ESCORTED BOSCH TO HIS CARAÇAS HOTEL.

ÜFIELD COMMENTS WHILE CURRENTLY NATUFALIZED VENEZUELAN CITIZENS.

BOTH GARCIA AND POSADA ARE: NATIVE-BORN CUBANS:)

¿J. SOMETIME FOLLOMING BOSCHOS ARRIVAL IN CARACAS, À BS.

S.098 APPROXIMATELY U.S, S1.118) A PLATE FUND-RAISING DINNER FOR

BOSEN HAS HELD AT THE HOME OF MILDO FOLGA RO A PROMINENT

SURGEON AND CUBAN EXILES IN ADDITION TO BOSCH, AMONG THOSE ATTENDING

PHE DINNER WERE GARCIAL RICARDO MORAL E'S NAVARETTE. GARGIAIS

DEPUTY WHO IS ALSO A NATIVE-BORN CUBAND POSADA, AND AN UNIDENTIPIED

MOM-LEVEL OPPIGTAL OP THE MINISTRY OR INTERIOR.

•N: DURINA THE EVENINO BOSCH APPROACHED THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR

OPPICIAL THRQUON DARGI, PROPOSINO THAT THE VENEZUELAN GOVEANMENT HAKE

A BUSSTAUTAL CABM CONTRIDUTION TO HIS ORGANIRATION. IN RETURN.

BOSCH AGABED TO QUARANTEE THAT THERE HOULO BE NO CUBAN EXILE DEMONO

PEONE IN THE UMS TOO STATES DURSNO PREBIORNT PERED! PLANNED

---

## Page 71

14-00000

IN 0692011

TOFIRDB-325/10256-76

WARNING NOTICE

BENSTTIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

NOVEMBER APPEARANCE ATAITHE UNITED NATIONSCUN,.

sOURCE COMMENTE

IT IS BELIEVED THAT SOSCHIS PROPOSITION WAS AT LEAST TENTATIVELY.

ACCEPTED BY THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR OFFICIAL.)

3. ALSO DURING THE EVENING BOSCH MADE THE STATEMENT THAT, "NOH

THAT OUR ORSANIZATIONIHAS COME OUT OF THE LETELIER JOE LOOKING GOOD.

WE ARE GOING TO TRY SONETHING ELSE "'. BOSCH DID NOT NAME THE ORGANI.

RATION NOR DID ME EXPAND ON MES MEANINGO EFIELD COMMENTI THE

LETELTER MENTIONED ABOVE IS PROBABLY FORMER CHILEAN FOREION MINISTER

ORLANDO. E

R. WHO WAS ASSASSINATED IN THE. UNITED STATES

ON 21 SEPTEMBER:)

A FEW DAYS FOLLOWING THE FUND-RAISINO DINNER, POSADA WAS

OVERHEARD TO SAY THAT"HE ARE GOINE TO HIT A GUSAN ASAPLANE:" AND

THAT ORLANDO HAS THE DETAILS," (SOURCE COMMENTS THE IDENTITIES

OF THE WHEN AND MORLENDOR MENTIONED IN THE STAPEMENT AGE MET KNONN.)

FOLLOWINO THE O OCTONER CUBANA AIRLINE CRASH OFFA THE

COAST OF BARBADOS, BOSCH, GANGIA AND POSADA AGREED THAT IP HOULS

¡N O809 COA 8C8CH TO LEAVE VENENUELA, THEREFORE ON P OGPODER

POSADA AND DAEGIA AGESETES DSBEE SO THE COLOMBIAN BORDER, KMBRE

INS CATER GROBBED OVER INTO COLOMGIAN TERRITORY

ON PME BABIS OR INPORMATION RECHIVED PROM TRINIDADIAN

rip:

---

## Page 72

14-00000

7 To 1r.

1OSM 3007 0950LSHONYIOUS

N 06.2202

TDFIRD8-73.5/77256-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 4 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

AUTHORITIES IMPLICATING MOM, POSADA HAS ARRESTEU BY. DI SIP AUTHORITIES

FON 12 OCTOBER, HIS OFFICE NAS SUSSEQUENTLY RAIDED, AND ALL FILES:

AND EQUIPMENT CONFISCATED.

9. MEANWHILE, PRESILENT PEREZ HAS ASSURED THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT.

TARGUGH GUSAN AMBASSAUOR NURDERTO MERNANDE & CURDELO, THAT

THE VENEZUEL AN GOVERNHENT ILL ENERGETICALLE PURSUE THE INVESTIGATION

OF. THE CURAMA CRASH. IN RETURN, MOWEVER, CUBA WILL DE EXPECTED TO

¡SUPPORT, VENEZUELA'S ANTI-TEARORISM POSITION AT THE UN.

10 CEMBASSY COMMENT IME AMDASSADON COMMENTSI

" THE, LEGAT!

¡HAS DISCERENT INFERMAPION AS TO WHETHER BOSCH MAS EXFILTRATED OR 1S

OR IS NOT IN VENEZUELA, GARGIA §PUKE TO LEGATO SUNDAY MORNING, 10

COGTOGER, AND: ON PME AFTERNOON OF LE DETOGER TOLD HIM INFORMALLY"

THAT THE PRESIDENT HOULD SHORTLY ADVIDE ME THAT BOSCH WOULD &E

¡QUANTO OURA TO US, THIS NAS REPGAIND TO LODART 8Y DISIA DIREGTON

RAVE DIMENG A GAINA AND STHER DISiE BEPICIALS CANGLUDINO

CARGIAN IN A MENTINO THE MORNINO OP SO OCTORNO, CONCHIVIOLY BARGIA

CAN DO CLATINO à DARK GANGO DUS THE DISCHOPANGIES DRE NOTEHORPHY,

¡ MAVO NOPIYET RECEIVED ANY OFF SELL WOND AB TO TME PURBIDENTIS

DEOISION..

EMBASSY, LADATE AT CARACASE SENT TO

---

## Page 73

14-00000

3007 OBOH

• Prevous

WARNING: NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE, SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED 4)

IN 069101

TOFIR: DB-73.5/37256-76

PAGE 5 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

oafton)

PORT OF SPAIN: GEORGETUWN, RINGSTON • MiXICO CIPY MANAGUA,

GUATEMALA: CITY, PANAMA CITY, SANTO DOMINGO, SANTIAGO.

REPORT; CLASS S E CRE IT-ONARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENGE

•SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASAGIE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-.

NOT RELEASADLE TO CONTRACTUS OR CONTRAGTON/CONSULTANTS..

'CLASSIFIED UY RECORDED REPONTING OFFICER, XODS-?

ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TO!

STATES DIAD ARMYS NAVY AINA JESTiNSAS:SUN

CIA/OPSCEN, SS/ID, FBI, TREASUR

---

## Page 74

14-00000

PIRTONIUNIT MOPIPIID

ADVANCE COFY

LA J0

ACTION I

.P1.

capuis.

SECRET

10 1150

FILE, VR, PARAPS/DC2, IP/AN. EID. OPS/ INT • SS 4.

SS/SOG 4, OSE/SC, OPSXTTO 4.

Ali ACT MESSAGI

===.

T 302470

ELAASS

PAGE UL

TOR: 3419572 008?8

IN 869101

31 12 7

SECRET 191900E DES DO INTEL

H46-7574-

CITE CARACAS J1J1Y

808

PRIORITY DIRECTON INFO PORT OF SPAIN. GEORGETONNO KINGSTONO

MEXICO CITY, MANAGUA, GUATEMALA CITY, PANAMA CITY, SANTO DUMINOD,

SANTIAGO:

MNINTEL. INTEL REAM

SUPDATAS ANNANDO FOR DESK REVIENS SOURCE PARAS 1088

MKSCARLETOS FROM

FROM WKSCARLET -3,

SOURCE PARA D8 NAMAYORI

FROM HASCARLETOJ

OD OBJECTIVE!

ded.

INDEX DARGIA, POSADA, MORALES, FOLGAR.

F8688

88od?daë8....e6.

" G02885.

PILEDI

801000 8

54(019

DOC, MICRO, dinI

NOV 1 7 1976

RECONO CONY

FIMICROFILMED

14 deet 16

0201-29927.2

875-120.28

---

## Page 75

14-00000

SECRET

CLA INTERMAL USE ONLY

MNTELIGENCE INFORMATION CABLE

DAiE SE OCTAgES. J9?6

069301

PAGE 1 OF S PAGES

ENSITIVE INTELLICEMAN UNE NOTICE METIONS INVOLVES

no fattortag rapon, tramunined from a ClA fiald eation, requires revier within the Diractorado al Oparationa bataro being un

I cony other docurian or publication, or releared outside the Agency. Ponding resutts of this renion, a copy is providad for yo

advanco intonaction

DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORICINATOR

DISTRIBUTION TO.

•8 MOONT 11 aT 0s

REPORT GLASS S E EN É POOWARNING NUTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVÉO--NOT HELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS:.O

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

COUNTRYS

VENEZUELA/CUBA

00!

8

LATE SEPTEMBER - 12 OCTOGER 1976

SUBJECTS

ACTIVITIES OF CUDAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BUSCH DURING

MIS STAY IN VENEZUELA

ACO

VENEZUELA, CARACAS (13 OCTOBER 19768 FIELD NO. HV6-7514

SOURCE & A FORMER VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL WHO STILL MAINTAINS

GLOSE RELATIONSHIPS WITH SOVENNMENT OFFIGIALS.,: ME IS A

• USUALLY NEGIAULE REPORTEM, THIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO DE

DISCUSSED WITH ANY FOREIGN OFFICIALS: INGLUDING THOSE

OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT.

SO SPIELO COMMENTI IN LATE SEPTEMBER 1976 A USUALLY PELIAULE

SOURCE REPORTED. THAT CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO & O SEM MAS IN

VENGQUELA UNDER THE PROTECTION OF VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS

AMORES PASE A PUAPHERNOGE ARE ME PONTES MIE SECURITY

AND INTELLIUENCE ADVIBER ONLANDO

TO PAOTECT ANÜ ASCIST

DOSEN DURING MIS STAY IN VENEQUELA,: PON THIS INFORMATION SEE

+ 42.

---

## Page 76

14-00000

3007. 081011

т 069601

WARNING NOTICE

KENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METIIODS INVOLVID

TORR

PAGE 2 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMNAT:ON AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

UF MID-SEPTEMBER, A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY

REPORTED THAT BOSCH ARRIVED IN VENEZUEL! ON APPROXIMATELY 13 SEPTEMBER. I

2. UPON MIS ARRIVAL IN CARACAS, BOSCH WAS MET AT THE AIRPORT

BY GARCIA AND LUIS CLEMENTE TOS A D A, A PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR

•AND ONE-TIME MEMBER UF THE DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE

AND PREVENTION SDISIP), WHO ESCORTEU BOSCH TO HIS CARACAS HOTEL.

PFIELD COMMENT: WHILE CURRENTLY NATURALIZED VENEZUELAN CITI&ENS.

BOTH GARCIA AND POSADA ARE NATIVE-BORN CUBANS.!

•J. SOMETIME FOLLOWING GUSCHIS ARRIVAL IN CARACAS. A BS.

SODDO ( AIMROXIMATELY U.S, 82.116S A PUATE FUND-RAISINE DINNER FOI

DOSCH MAS MELD AT THE NOME OF HILDA FE

201= 2903010-

OLGA RO A PROMINENT

SURGEON AND CUDAN EXILE.... IN ADITIUN TO BOSEN, AMGNG THOSE ATTENDINg

THE DINNER WERE GARCIAS RICANDU

201-29°923 NAVARETTE, GARCIAIS

DEPUTY WHO IS ALSO A NATIVE-DORN GUANS POSADAS AND AN UNIDENTIFIED

HION•LEVEL OFFIGIAL OR PHE MINISTAT OR INTERIOR,

QUAÇID INS EVENIVO GOSCH-APPRUACHED THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR

ORPICIAL TARQUUM DARESA FROPOSiNO INAT THE NEGQUEGAN GOVERNMEN? MAKE

A EUBSTANTIAL CASH CONTAIOUPIUA PO HIS ORGANIGATION. IN RETURNA

DOSEN ADRAGO TO GUARANTHE THAT THEME MUULO HE NO CUBAN EXILE DEMONO

APRATIONS IN PEE UNITRO SPATES QUAINO PRESIDANT PEREN' PLANNED

---

## Page 77

14-00000

11.41*4-07

3007

oxson

06930}

TORR

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOI VED

PAGE 3 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMUNATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

(crameraaston!

NOVEMBER APPEARANCE AP THE UNITED NA:LONSCUNS, (SOURCE COMMENTE

18 IS BELIEVED THAT BOSCH'S PRUPOSITION WAS AT LEAST TENTATIVELY

ACCEPTED BY THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR.OFFIGIAL.Y

3. ALSO DURING THE EVENING BUSCH MADE THE STATEMENT THAT. "NOW

THAT OUR ORGANIZATION HAS COME OUT OF THE LETELIER JOO LOOKING GOOD.

WE ARE GOING TO TRY SOMETHING ELSE.

BOSCH DID NOT NAME THE ORGANIO

ZATION NOR DIE HE EXPAND ON HIS MEANING. AFIELD COMMENTO THE:

LETELIER MENTIONED ABOVE 1S PROHABLY FORMEN CHILEAN FORETEN MINISTER

ORLANDO GET E68 ER. WHO HAS ASSASSINATED IN THE UNITED STATES

ON 21 SEPTEMBER.)

6. A FEW DAYS FOLLOWING THE FUNE-RAISING DINNER.. POSADA WAS

OVERHEARD TO SAY THAT, "WE ARE GUING TO MIT A GUBAN AIRPLANE:" AND

THAT "ORLANDO HAS THE DETAILS," (SOURCH. COMMENTI THE SDENTATIES

OP THE "HEM AND "ORLANDON MENTIONED IN. THE

STATEMENT ARE NOT KNOWN, I

1, FOLLOWINO THE O OCTODER CUDANA AIRLINE CRASH OFF THE

COADS US DARNADOR, BUSCHO WANCIA AND POSADA AGREED THAT IP WOULD

D8: 09S9 PER BOSCH TO LEAVS VENGQUELA,. THEREFORE, ON O OCTOGER

DOSADA AND DARCIA ESCORTÃO MOSCH PO THU COLOMBIAN HORDER, MMARE

PHE LATTER CROSSSO OVER iNTO COLOMULAN PERRITORY,

DO ON PHO BADIO OP INFORMATION RECRIVED FROM PRINIOADIAN

---

## Page 78

14-00000

MGSAMNEe+4E9т+44E++91-519595n710

300% oesou

N 0612o

WAINING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE, SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

TOFIL

PACE 4 OF S. PAGES

SECRET

FUNTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATON SUBJECT TO

CONTROIS STATED AT BEGINNINO AND END OF REPORT.

AUTHORITIES IMPLICATINS HIM, POSADA WAS ARRESTEU BY DISIP AUTHORITIES

OU 12 OCTODER. MIS OFFICE WAS SUSSEQUENTLY RAIDED AND ALL FILES

AND EQUIPMENT CONF ISCATED.

8O MEANWHILE, PRESIVENT PERE: MAS ASSURED THE CUBAN SOVERNMENT.

PHROUGH CUBAN AMBASSADOR NURUERTO HERNAND E Z CURBELO: THAT

THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT MILL ENENGETICALLY PURSUE THE INVESTIGATION

OF THE CUBAMA GRASH. IN RETUEN, HOWEVEN, CUBA HILL GE EXPECTED TO

SUPPORT VENEZUELA'S ANTI-TERRORISM POSITION AT THE UN.

18 SEMBASSY COMMENTS THE AMMASSADOR COMMENTS: " PHE LEGATT

HAS DIFFERENT INFORMATION AS TO WHETHER BOSCH MAS EXF ILTRATED OR IS

OR IS NUT IN VENEZUELA, GAÑGIA SPOKE TO LEGATE SUNDAY MÜGNING, 10

•OCTOBER, AND ON THE AFTERNUON OF 12 OCTUBER TOLD HIM "INFORMALLY"

THAT THE PRESIDENT WOULD SHORTLY ADVISE ME THAT BOSCH WOULD DE

PURNEO OVER TO US, THIS WAS REPÉATED TU LEGATE DY DISSO DIRECTOR

RAUL WIMENE& DAINTA AND OTHER DISIP OFFICIALS PINCLUDINO

BAACIAI IN A MEETINO THE MONNING DE 1I OCTOBER, CONCEIVARLY GARCIA

GAN 35 PLAYINO A DARK DAME, DUT THE DISCREPANGIES ARE NOTEWORTHYO

1 HAVE NOT YUT MECBIGE ANY ORE ICIDE WOHD AS TA PHE PRESIDENTIE

PIOLO DISSEMI AMDANSY, GERATT AT CARACARI SUNP TO

313.

---

## Page 79

14-01100

555 3007 o00

06930}

VARNING NOTIO

ENSTTIVE INTELLICENCE SOVACES AND METHODE INVOLVED

PAGE S OF'S PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMIMATION AND USE OF THIS INIURMATION SUMICT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OA REPORT

•PORT OF SPAIN• GEORUETONNO RINGSTON • MEXICO CITY, MANAGUA,

GUATEMALA CITY• PANAMA CITY, SANTO DOMINGO, SANTIAGO.

REPORT GLASSS E CR E PO-MARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRAGTOS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.

CLASSIFIED. BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS=?,

---

## Page 80

14-00000

car or 200. L...

Mason vars acio

ChAB

detach o

8 302400

1152:3046

sire crr."

iSTaTE

• д.

VILIANCEL

1esteG2, с/сін

ELANDE

+0988818598 069

CARA

BEER EP SALOODS OCT NO STAFT

CITE CARAÇAS S1L10

POR PRIORITY DI RECTOR INTO PRIORITY

ROUTINE PORT OF SPAINPO

DEORGE TONiS.

WINTEL RYBAT REAM MUSPIKE

REFA GARAGAS 31112 8MVC073141 (eN 069101)

At: 1M1

SO ACCORDING TO REF, ORLANDO B O SCH MAY HAVE BEEN

220100

DEPORTED TO COLOMBIA DO10 ÖCTOBER, ALTHOUGH VENEZUELAN SECURSTY

OFFICIALS MAVE CONTINUED TO ASSURE AMBASSADOR. AND LEGATT THAI AS

OF 13 OCTOBER BOSEN STILL IN VENEZUELA AND WILL BE PRODUCED

SHORTLY FOR DEPORTATION TO U.S, AMBASSADOR HAS NO OBJECTION PO

CHECKING FON BOSCH'S PRESENCE COLOMBIA THROUGM

BUT ASKS THAT NO INQUIRIES BE MADE THROUGH

OFFICIAL CHANNELS UNTIL IT CLEAR WHAT VENEZUELANS

REALLY HAVE DONE OR PROPOSE TO DO ON BUSCH'S DEPORTATION.

: 8. BOSCH

EARLIER AULIGED TO ES TRAVELLINO ON COSTA RICAN

PASSPORT IN NAME OF PEDRO ANTONIO PEN A OR CARLOS LUIS

PANS A QUU A MENDER, ON THE OTHERMAND, WE HAVE ONE REPORT

THAT ME ENTERED VENERUELA IN TRUE NAME,

++8688 20800299292

&&I IMPDET,

RECORD COPY

MQet6

221-299292.

---

## Page 81

14-00000

TARDÜMITTle

TIMIN 806M88T7N B87U4T

SECRET

LA PSSLYLE

9:21

11 OCTOBER,

197&

073.1911 $ 40. 151602. C1 8. 88 !.

JA 88

0S0UIC2181

129

S8/SOG 8, OPSIITO S.

DAT DUSTRIBUTED

11 остовав 127е..

он38

SLIA-

ЛАЛАТЮМ

LA: NICA

DCiLA-

TDFIR08-313/10838-78

MAECROENCE

XI COUMAR

Nd COG

LUVRIG

HYC - 7913

CARACAS JAILI(IN 067787)

NP(NKHIXER-L)

OBJ,

CiE

WA/PNELY

HAL PNCLP.

LALCAR

MANDUNO INSTRUCTIONS - PLACE X IN APPROPILATE SPACE

TO WID.

DISSEM MECTICALLY TO,

13%

C ZIMAHOO UFTER CARLE SENT

CARACAS,

PORT OF SPAIN, GEORGETONN, KINGSTON,

EXCLUSIVE FOR

MEXICO CITY, MANAGUA, GUATEMALA CITY, PANAMA

Moor attractor!

CITY, SANTO DOMINGO, SANTIAGO:

DELAY CABLE PREPARED

get it to coon to

HOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-T

K7P097 CLASSIFER 8Y, 038133

AUFIENTICATING OFFICER

C/LA/PNG/ R

UNCATION

C. ĐY 007822

SECRET

REMOVE

LA/CAR

LA/ BB

NEELICOORD)

RELEASINO OFFICER

c2a/n 1l Brin

F/Break 101

---

## Page 82

14-00000

Intelligence inforination Cable

BOLTINE

067747

PACE I OS.1 PACAS...

SECRET

- 00000010 11000 Pee

FURTHE DISSCMIMATION ANO USE ON INAS MORAION SURACT. 1O

¿UMIAONS STAIED AI RECHARANO AMO ANO ON REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT: NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTHLIGENCE

Cile TOnIa DB-315/10239-76

0I8T JA OCTOBER 1978

REPORT CLASS 8 SC RE T--MARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT

RELEASABLE TO COYTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

COUNTRY VENEZUELA/CIPA.

DO: 8 OCTOBER 1978

SUANCT

COMMENTS OF A CUBAN EMBASSY OFFICIAL IN CARACAS

ON RECENT ACTS OF TERRORISM AGAINST THE CUBANS.

Mattered meanin

11. 2.

ACO

sorrot

17C1697

VENEZUELA, CARACAS (11. OCTOBER: 1978)

ARD NO. HVC-7513

A FOREIGN DIPLOMAT WITH A WIDE VARIETY OF CONTACTS.: HIS

RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED.

1100 day

.. ON 8 OCTOBER 1976 LUIS JORGE MARTINEZ MENOCAL,

OCTIRST SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN CARACAS, VENEZUELA, BAID

THAT THE CUBAN EMBASSY BELIEVES THAT THE CUBAN EXILE GROUP

HBADED BY ORLANDO BO SCH AVILA IN RESPONSIBLE FOR HE &

OCTOBER BOMBINO OF A CUBANA AIRLINER OUT OF BARBADOS, (FIELD

COMMENT!. FOR AN EARLIER REPORT ON CUBAN REACTION TO RECENT

• SECRET

---

## Page 83

14-00000

N03413

LACEMANE BORO METINGS DURAVED

N8 06878.7

ORADE-313/10239-76

PACH & DR A. PAGEA

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIE INTORMATION SUBJECT 80

• SECRET CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND ENU OF REPORT.

lala rare.

TERRORIST ATTACKS AGAINST THE CUBANS, BER HYC-7S09, TDPIRDB-315/

10100-76, OS 8 OCTOBER 1978, FROM THIS AND ANOTHER SOURCE OF

UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY.

3. MARTINEZ SAID THAT THE EMBASSY BELIEVES BOSCH HAS BEEN

RECEIVING ECONOMIC AND OTHER ASSISTANCE PROM THE UNITED STATES

1375.

COVERNHENT (USQ), VIA ITS INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES, SINCE BOSCH 18

ABLE TO MOVE ABOUT. FREELY AND OBVIOUSLY WITH FALSE DOCUMENTATION,

COn: AS HIS MOVEMENTS CANNOT BE TRACED, HOWEVER, MARTINEZ SAID THAT THE

CUBANS DO NOT BELIEVE THE USG IS OR WOULD BE DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN

THE BOMBING OF THE CUBANA FLIGHT. USG INVOLVEMENT IN THE INCIDENT,

MARTINEZ SAID, HOLLE BE COUNTERPRODUCTIVE TO THE USG'S INTERESTS

BECAUSE CUBAN PRIME MINISTER FIDEL

. CASTRO RUZ WOULD SURELY.

BREAR THE AIR PIRACY AGRESISNT, WHICH IS TO THE BENFIT OF THE USG.

3. THE CUBANS, MARTINSZ SAID, ARE COLENNET ABOUT APPARENT

CONNECTIONS BETWEEN BOSCH AND CUBAN EXILES WORXING fOR THE CAPRILES

PUBLISHING CHAIN IN VENEZUELA. WHOULD FREDDY I. U Q O, ONE OF THE

TWO VENEZUELANS CURRENTLY UNDER DETENTION IN TRINIDAD IN CONNECTION

WITH THE PLANE CRASH AND À REPORTER FUR ONE OF THE CAPRILES PUB-

LICATIONS, BE DEFINITELY IMPLICATED IN THE APPAID, THE CUBANS WILL

BE CONVINCED OF THIS BOSCH/CAPRILES CONNECTION. ANOTHER:

• SECRET

comerset

---

## Page 84

14-00000

•57 206

15 2018-

LANITE LA

MARUE ROTH

LICENCE HIM BORS AND METRNNOS ESPONSI

* 067787

10+1DB-315/10239-76

PACA 3 OR A PACEI

FURTHEN LUSSERINATION AND US& OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

•SECRET CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

EXAMPLE OF THIS CONNECTION, MARTINEZ SAID, IS A 3 OCTOBER ARTICLE

WHICH APPEARED IN THE CAPRILES PAPER "EL MUNDO" WHICH DESCRIBES AN

FARLIER UNSUCCESSTUL ATTACK ON A CUBANA FLIGHT OUT OF BARBADOS AND,

WHILE DEPLORING SUCH ACTS, SAYS THAT THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT STARTED

THEM, THE UNSUCCESSFUL ATTACK DESCRIBED IN THE ARTICLE, AND ABOUT

WHICH THE CUBANS KNOW NOTHING, IS BELIEVED TO BE SIMILAR TO WHAT

MAY RAVE OCCURPED IN THE CASE OF THE & OCTOBER DISASTER.

THE CUBANS,

THEREFORE, BELIEVE THAT THE AUTHOR MAY WELL HAVE HAD PRIOR KNOM-

LOUGS OF THE ATTACK ON THE CUBANA AIRLINER. (FIELD CONKENT:

FOR

AN EARLIER REPORT ON CUBAN CONCERN ABOUT ARTICLES APPEARING IN "EL

MUNDO, " SEE HVC-7495, TDFIRDB-315/09683-76, 27 SEPTEMBER 1976, FRON

ANOTHER SOURCE CE UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY.)

"I MITH REGAED TO THE 21 SEPTEMSER ASSASSINATION OF FORMER

CRILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE U.S. ORLANDO' LET BLI BRIN THE

U.B., MARTINEZ SAID THAT THIS KILLING SHOWED THE CHARACTERISTICS

OF WORK DONE BY THE GOVERNHENT OF CHILEAN PRESIDENT GENERAL

AUDUSTO PINOCHE I VIARTE, DESPITE SOME MEDIA SPECULATION

TO THE CONTRARI, MARTINEZ SAID THAT HE DOES NOT PERSONALLY BELIEVE

THS USO IS IN ANY WAY INVOLVED WITH LETELIER'S DEATH.

418044220010

22770 06

" for dry

• SECRET

1heN death

A Paral

---

## Page 85

14-00000

до 5912 "Tri

access poses arrest as.

•: 068788

:1069D13-985/10239-98

PACE I OR A PACES

• FURTHER DISSENINATION AND USE OP THIS INPORLATION SUBJIET

, SECRET TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OY METON

S. CONCENNING THE & OCTOVER MACHINEQUN ATTACK ON THE CUBAN

IMBASSY IN CARACAS, MARTINEZ SAID THAT THE CURANS ARE PLACING NO

SPEZIAL SIGNIFICANCE ON THE EVENT..

THI ATTACK, MARTINEZ SAID,

MAS PROBABLY THI MORK OF CUBAN EXILES; HOMEVER, HE DOUBTED THAT IT

MS. CARRIED OUT BY BOSCH'& GROUP.

B. FIELD DISSEN: SABASSY AT CARACAS: SENT TO PORT OF SPAIN,

OFORGETOWN, KINUSTON, MEXICO CITY, MANAGUA, GUATEMALA CITY,

PANAMA CITY, SANTO DOMINGO, SANTIAGO.

DEPORT CLASS S E CRE T--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--

HOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.

CLASSIFIED BY PECOPDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2.

154 044A

AS FA 60205

20 SES

: 4Tt

N7074

170040199 91

30060-017

• SECRET

---

## Page 86

14-00000

.

B00 0'

194025009

. SEERET

301538-793888

756608

V0R12588826 061 90

1000797

CARA

86888

$O6088 8188888 068 SO SATEL

BUTE CARACAS

188868

POS PRIODIPY DIRECTON INTO PORT OR SPAIN, GEORGPONN, MINGSTON.

MEXICO CITY, MMMAQUA, QUATEMALA CIPYO PAMAMA CITYO SANTO DOMINOBO

BANTIAGO.

UNINTEL INTEL REAM

SUPDATAL

FILEDI

ARHANDO FOR DESK REVIEN.

DO OBUECTIVER COD.NO: (THIS 88 80

RESPONSE TO DIRECTOR DISSOD AND DIRECTOR 9240EI, I

INDEX LUDD, LLANO.

58688 79-128-28. Glo BY G6Z8OS,

832023₴

XXXXX

0CI

piland

Beach

---

## Page 87

14-00066

On ATtENAL USE poet

INTELLICENCE PNFORLATION CARLE

Datt 13 0СТE9EX :9716

507737

PAGE I QIU PACES

MATINE UNTRLSCENCE IN SOLO ISO VETHODS ACENCO

a pas order

бов,

senionad toors a ClA footd enatica, respires moniero sochis das Dinarsarano el Operations batono botag ua

protocona: de vibranad orrido too Agarij. Perdug, resutes el lais noviora, a cappy in provident tone yu

кость о ілолоо

DISSEMINATION AND RXTRACTION OF INPOMAATION CONTHOLLED SY ONCINATOR

DIA TUBE TID 10: 500

3.1 китоть ее 80 005

AEPORT CLASS 8 E OR E POOWARNIMO NOPICLOSENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

BOURGES AND MEPHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREION NATIONALSOO

MOT AELEASARLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORI CONSULTANTS

COUNTRYS VENEZUELA/CUBA

DOs: • & OCTOGER 1998

SUBJECTS

COMMENTS OF A CUBAN EMBASSY OFFICIAL IN CARACAS ON

RECENT ACTS OF. TERROR ISM AGAINST THE CUBANS

ACO

VENEZUELA, CARACAS 181 OCTOBER 1976) FIELD NO, MUCOISAS

SOURCE 8 A FOREIGN DIPLOMAS HITH A HIDE VARIETY OF CONTAGIS.

HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED:

1. ON 8 OCTUBER 197E LUIS MOGE MR GINGE.

MENOCALO

PERST

SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN AMBASSY IN CARACAS, VENEZUELA, SAID

THAT THE CUBAN EMBASSY BELIEVES THAT THE CUBAN EXILE GROUP MEADSO

BY ORLANDO 8 OS EN AVILA IS RESPONSIGLE FOR THE & OCTOBER

BOMBING OF A GUDANA AIRLINER OUT OF BARBADOS, (FIELD COMMENTA

POR AN GARLICA REPORT ON CUORN RENETION TU FECENT CARORIST ATTAGNA

ABAINST THEM SEE MUCOISGOR TOPIADE S1S/LOLAS TO, OF O OCTOBERI

PRON THIS AND ANOTHER SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIA BILLTY, I

•8, MARTINE SAID THAT TME GMÖASSY ULIEVES BOSCH HAB BEEN

ROCESVINO SCONOMIC AND OTHER ASSLSTANGO PROM THE UNITED STATES

---

## Page 88

44-00000

200790979

14. 067788

WARNING NOTICE

SLANITIT ISTELLICENCE SOUNCES AÑO METHOOS AVOLVIO

PAce? OrY

PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSANUMATION ANO USE OF, THIS INT ORMATION SURECT TO

CONTROLS STATEO AT BEGINNINO AND END OR REPORI..

SOVERNMENS FUSES, VIA ITS INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES, SINCE BOSCH IS ABLE

DO MOVE ABOUT FREELY AND UBVIRUSLY WITH FALSE DOCUMENTATION.. AS MIS

MOVEMENTS CANNOT BE TRACED, MONEVER, MARTINEZ SAID THAT THE CUBANS

DO NOT SELIEVE THE USO IS OR MOULD BE DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN THE

BOMBING OF THE CUBANA FLIGHT. USG INVOLVEMENT IN THE INCIDENT.

MARTINEZ SAID. WOULD BE COUNTERPRODUCTIVE TO THE USGIS INTERESTS.

BECAUSE CUBAN PRIME MINISTEN FIDEL C A STR O RUZ NOULO SURELY

•BREAK THE AIR PIRACY AGREEMENT WHICH IS TO THE BENEFIT OF THE USGI

3O THE CUBANS, MARTINEZ SAID, ARE CONCERNED ABOUT APPARENT

CONNECTIONS BETWEEN BOSCH AND GUBAN EXILES WORKING FOR. THE CAPRILES

PUBLISHING CHAIN IN VENEZUELA. SHOULO FREDOY 6 UG G. GNE GE

THE TWO VENERUELANS CURRENTLY UNDER DETENTION IN TRINIDAD IN

CONNECTION WITH THE PLANE CRASH AND

A REPORTER FOR ONE OF THE

CAPRILES PUBLICATIONS: DE DEFINITELY IMPLICATED. IM THE AFFAIRS

THE CUBANS WILL DE CONVINCEO OF THIS DOSCHICAPRILES CONNECTION.

ANUIMEN EXAMPLE DU MIS GUNNEUTIUNO MARTINGA SALD, 15À L UGTUGGA

ARTICLE WHISH APPEARED IN THE CAPRILES PAPER MEL MUNDOM WHICH

DESCRIBES

AN HARLIER UNSUCCESSPUL ATTAGK ON A CUBANA FLIGHT OUT OF

MARGADOS, AND MMILE DEPLORING YUEN AGPS, BAYS THAT THE CUBAN.

GAVERNMENT STARTEO THEM, THI& ARTIGLE WAS WRITTEN MY ANPONIO

---

## Page 89

14-00000

IN C6778?

WARSING NOTICE

SENSITIVE ISTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

TDFIR

PAGE 3 OF 4: PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

paiemeractions.

LL AN O MONTES, A GUSAN EXILE WHO NHILE LIVING IN THE UNITED

STATES, WRITES A COLUMN FOR MEL MUNDO, " THE UNSUCCESSFUL ATTACK

DESCRIBED IN LLANDOS ARTICLE AND ABOUT WHICH THE CUBANS KNOW

NOTHING, IS BELIEVEO PO BE SIMILAR TO WHAT. MAY HAVE OCCURRED IN

THE CASE OF THE 6 OCTOBER DISASTER. THE CUBANS, THEREFORE, BELLEVE

THAT LLANO MAY WELL HAVE MAD PRIGA KNOWLEDGE OF THE ATTACK ON THE

CUBANA AIRLINERO ¡FIELD COMMENT: FOR AN EARLIER REPORT ON GUBAN

CONCERN ABOUT ARTICLES APPEARING IN DEL MUNDOR. SEE HUG-7495.

TOFIRD8-3130..

:-760 FROM. ANOTHER SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED

RELIABILITY.Y

¿, WITH REGARD TO THE 20 SEPTEMBER ASSASSINATION. OF FORMER

SHILEAN PORESON MINISTER GRLANDO LE PEL HER IN PHE UNITED

STATES, MARTINE: SAID THAT THIS KILLING SHOWED THE CHARÄCTERISTICS

OR WORK DONE BY THE QOVERNMENT OF CHILEAN PRESIDENT GENERAL AUQUSTO

PINO CM @ ? UUARTE, DÉSILIE SOME MEDIA SPECULATION PO. THE CON.

PRARY, MARTINES SAIN THAT. ME MOES NOT DEAGGNALLY GELIEVE THE 199

18 IM ANY WAY INVOLUEE WITM LETELIGRIS GGATHO

8, CONCRRNINO THE

'à OCTOGER MACHINE DUN ATTACK ON THE CUBAN

AMBASSY IN CARACÃS, MARTINÉE SALD THAT THE

CUBANS ARE PLAGINO NO

SPECIAL BIUNIPICANCE ON THE BUANT,.

PHE. ATTACK, MARTINGA SAID.

---

## Page 90

14-00000

839. 3007 0ss01itogn0s

Mr. 067787

IYARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS: INVOLVED

PAGE 4PEУ PAGES

SECRET

(stanseMestion)

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMLATION SUBJEGE TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

HAS PROBABLY THE WORK OF CUBAN EXILESI HOHEVER, HE DOUBTED THA? IT

WAS CARRIED OUT BY BOSCH'S GROUP.

GO FIELD DISSEMI EMBASSY AT CARACASI SENT TO PORT OF SPAIN.

GEORGETOWN, KINGSTON. MEXICO CITY, MANAGUA, GUATEMALA CITY, PANAMA

CITY, SANTO DOMINGO, SANTIAGO.

REPORT CLASS S E CR E TOÖWARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLSGENGE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVÉD--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATZONALS--

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORA CONSULTANTS.

GLASSIFIED DY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER: XGDS-Z.

L

---

## Page 91

14-00000

STATE CABLES

FROM SECSTATE WASHDC

SLATE 252295

DATE: 9 OCTOBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

US POSITION ON INVESTIGATION OF

CUBANA AIRLINES CRÄSH

FROM AMEMBASSY CARACAS 12098

DATE: 29 OCTOBER 1976

SUBJECT: REQUEST FOR DEPORTATION OF BOSCH

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

STATE CABLES

FROM: AMEMBASSY PORI QF SPAIN 2652

DATES 9 OCTOBER 1976

CLASSIFICA?TON:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECTS

REQUEST FOR DEPORTATION OF BUSCH

FROM SECSTAZE WASHDO

PLASS 252567

DATES

9 OCTOBER 1976

CLABSIFICATIONS CONFIDENTTAL

BUBJECT!

PROUDET FOR PERDRTATION TO US OF

FUOITIVE ORLANDO MOSCHI

---

## Page 92

14-00000

ORIE.

UNIT

EXT.

DATE

CONF

TRANS.SITTAL

OF

TDFIR INFORMATION REPORT.

LA/PNC

1454

9 OCTOBER

1976

OPS/INT 5, IID, PS/EG 2.

LA 19

FR 5

CI 4,

ROUTING

SS 4,

2I9G 4,

DATE DISTRIBUTED

9

OCTOBER 1976

DISSEMINATION

LA/REG

LA/CAR

LARR

LA/M&CA

CA

LALPORT SPAIN

DC/LA

LA/GEORGETHN

LA/OPS

LA/MAXI

LA/PNC

4, LA/MANAGUA

ILALCOG

4 LIA/GUAT

"HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS - PLACE X. IN APPROPRIATE SPACE

TiT PACY

LAY SA, DON

AKINGS?

• TO 1D.

DISSEM ELECTRICALLY TOI

'ZRWAHOO LIFTER CABLE SENT

EXCLUSIVE FOR

CARACAS

PORT OF 3.

MEXICO CITY,

HA NAG:,

SANTO DOMINGO, LiA/

I RELAY CABLE PREPARED

C25111 07 20 10

NOT FOR LAISON

REFORT CLASSFIGO EY: 035230

NOT RELIABA:.

NOT RELLA SA:.

CONTRAS:

CS INTERNAL

OFFICER

SITY

VAD IET-3)

ACMIXER-1)|

1.:.

ESTON,

LAURA MA

CITY,

for

orlando

МІТИНІТІ

FIAUSIHCATON

66 BY 007828

• 8 UMON:

SECRET

1279292

---

## Page 93

14-00000

MA 1I ORSOLETE PREVIOL

'SECRET (When, Filled in)

CONTRA

DIRICTORATE OF

OPTRATIONS

SECRET

Intelligence Information Cable

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND NETHODS INTOLVED

• PRIORITY

IN 064422

PAGE 1 OF & PAGES

STATE/INE SCS/MC (DIA) CLAIMACE SWS NSA

TREAS NSC/S SDO. NIO CRS

FBI

SECUR (SY/I/PIB)

SS/ID

Mice: i Dare do Crate Declarian Schnito ol E.O: 1105% Ariani

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO..

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT:

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

CITE TDFIPDB-315/10100-76

DIST 9. OCTOBER 1976

• REPORT CLASS SECRE TO-WARNING NOTICE -SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN. NATIONALSO-

NO! RELEASABLE TO CONTROCTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

COUNIRY VENEZUELA CUBA.

DO!

SO SEPTEMBER I UCTOBER 1976

SUBJECT

WE ACTION OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY

. IN CARACAS TO RECENT

TERHORIST AITACKS AGAINST CUBAN AIRCRAFT AND

INSTALLATIONS,

ACO

SO UN CE

VENERUELA, CARACAS S8 OCTOBER 19761 FIELD NO. MVC-7309

SEE BELOW.

SOURCE OF PARAORAPHS @ AND J8 A VENEZUELAN BUSINEBRMAN

HITM GLOSS CONTASTS IN BUSINEES, GOVERNHENT, POLTHILAL AND

DIPLOMATIG CIRCLES, MIS RELIABILITY: MAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED.

NIETRO ON D OCTODER SOTO PUDRO O O M A & FRANANDER, SECOND

¡"BAGRATARY AT PMA CUDAN SMBARDY IN CARACAR, VENGRUELA, SAID THAT

'THO CUMAN UMUABBY WAU AWARS THAT A DOMA WAS RESPONBIBLO FOR THE

ORARM. OP THE CUBANA ABALINO PUIQMY OPP PHE COAST OF MARRADOS

ON & OCTUBER. THE CUBANDI GOMBS SAIDO DIE NÖT KNOW ON WHSCH

Ь0 OF THE PLION PHE DOMO WAS PLACED MONAVOR,

SPUDLO CUMMENTI THE PLANE WAR DOWNRO WITH THE CLOSE OP TO LOVES

L

---

## Page 94

14-00000

IN

064422

тотія DB-315/10100-76

NARNING NOTICE

NSTTIVS INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVE

PAGE 2 OF y PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND ENT UF REPORT.

INQUDING FENCING TEAM WHICH MAD RECENTLY COMPLETED COMPETITION IN

VENEZUELA, Y

.J, GOMEZ SAID THAT ON 30 SEPTEMBER THE CUBAN EMBASSY MAD

INFORMED THE DIRECTOHATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND

PREVENTIN A DISIPI, IME VENEZUELAN CIVILIAN SECURITY SERVICE,

THAI a CUBAN EXILE NAMED SALVADOR R O MAN I HAS OBSERVING

THE CUBAN FENCING TEẠM AT ITS CARACAS HOTEL, ROMANI , GOMEE SAID,

18 A UNITED STATES INTELLIGENGE AGENT. (SOURCE COMMENT

COMER IMPLLED THAT THE CUBAN EMBASSY IS LOOKING INTO THE POSSIBILITY

THAT ROMANI'S AGTIVITLES ARE INVOLVED WITH THE PLANE CRASH,)

PURTHERMORES THE CUBANS TOLD DISIP THAT THE TEAM HOULD DEFEND

SPIGLE SHOULD ROMANT CAUSE TROUBLE, SHORTLY AFTER THE CUBANS

MADE PHEIR LBRGINUS KNOWN TO DISIP, GOMES SAID THAT ROMANI'S

•CARTIVITIES CRASED. (FIGLO COMMENTA IN MUG-7489.

: 9DP1108-985/00883 •10. ОГ 28" ВЕРТАНОВА, , ТНЯ ЗАМО,

:DOURCE REPURTAD. PHAT THI CURAN AMBASSY MAD COMPLAINED. TO

D888P ADQUT ANTI-CUBAN DOVENNMENT ARTICLES APPEARINO IN PHE LOCAL

PR008.

IN THIS INSTANCE THE CUBAND INDIGATED THAIR WIGLINGNESE TO

ASPALSATA AGAINDS INE NEMOMAN INVOLUDO SE DIBID BID NOT

---

## Page 95

14-00000

Try 2628157205.729934

10e 3007 doLessious

SECRET

матеростьом.

N 064422

TOFIR DB-315/10100-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOUNCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF y PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INTORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END Of REPORT.

TAKE ACTIONI.

A, SOUNCE OF PARAGHAMHS S AND 68 A FOREIGN DIPLOMAT WITH A

WIDE VARIETY.UF CUNTAÇTS, HIS RELIABiLITY HAS NOT BEEN

ESTABLISHED.

3, DURING THE WEEK OF & OCTOBER LUIS MARTINE Z

MONOCALI CUBAN FIRST SECRETARY, SAID THAT THE EMBASSY WAS

AHARE THAT CUBAN EXILE EXTREMIST ORLANDO, O O S-CH NAS IN

VENEZUELA, THE EMBASSY, HE SAID, WAS ATTEMPTING TO INVESTIGATE

BOSCH'S ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA AND TO DETERMINE WHETHER:

HAS STILL. IN THE COUNTRY, MARTINEZ SAID THAT PHE EMBASSY HAD

REGRIVED UNCONFIRMED MEPGATS THAT BOSCH MAD MOVED OUT. OF THE

'ÖARAGAS AHEA AND WAS THEN IN THE VENEZUELAN INTERIOR.

:8E8ULD COMMUNTY FOR AN HARLIER REPORT ON THE PRESENGE OF BOSCH

IN VENEZUELA, SEE MYS 7498, TOFIRDE-SS5109821-760 OF 30

•ROTOMOBRA FRUM A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCES

IN ADDITSUN PO AND IN CONMEGTION WITH INVESTIGATIONS INTO

•TWO POSSIOLE PRESENCE OF DOSEN IN VENBRUELA, CUBAN AMBASSY

OPPICIALS ANA CONCERNED ABOUT THE MACHING-QUNNING OP THE CUBAN BMBASEY

IN GARAGS DY UNANOMN ASBAILANTA ON PHE BARLY MORNINO OR A OCTODER,

: DO PAULO DISSEMI UMBANDY, FBI AT CARACADI SEND TO

PUNA

42-91

---

## Page 96

14-00000

N 064422

топк: 08-315110100-78

WARNING NONO.

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODE INVOLVED

• SECRET

UNTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INTORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT. BEGINNINO AND END OF REFORT

PORT OF SPAINO GEORGETUWN, KINGSTONO MEXICO CITY, MANAGUA,

• GUATEMALA CITY, PANAMA CITY, SANTO DOMINGO.

REPORT CLASS'S E CR É TOWARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELE ASABLE TO PORE IGN NATS ONALSOO

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORI CONSULTANTS.

GLASSIFIEU DY RECORDEU REPORTING OFFICER, XGDS-2;

9 20N200 251614

Cher!

Meune aor

TRV

AMI1T8

N 1:

90.100 PELOSOA MANAS

no. #lande

199012

COOR

---

## Page 97

14.00000

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 9 SEPTEMBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBICI: ORTANDO BOSCH AVILA, MAKOIS VIOLATOR

FBI FILE NO: 105-2856 (MIAMI)

---

## Page 98

14-00000

BABALO BI

8111001 00 18 0570020 -

SECRET

34

24

гааке 10

2t.00

VALORA

VILS,. VB. ERARAERERERS

SS YO AGCIDDO, OSCUIC.

LID, OPS/LAT • CM.

4O NE DO OPS/ITO N

8 868629

ELA390

PAGE OL

T0R12080808 SER 26

IN. 858182

BE CA E T ZOLAZ0R SED TO INTEL

HNC-7U99

CITE CARACAS SARTO CHACKELINO ACTINOS

Apom

¡NO DIRECTOR INDO MARAGUA, BUATEMALA ESTY,, MEXICO CITY, KINGSTONO

Nws

PORT OF SPAINO SAN JOSE, GEORDETQNNO PANAMA CITY.

WHINTEL KMSTONE MASPIKE:

SUPDATAS

FILEDE

OD OBJECTIVER J.Ï. INDEX BOSCH, GARCIA.

FILE DEFERRED.

C6. BY 835133.

29114297

XXXX

OC. MICRO. SER.

NOV 2 4 1976

MICROFILMEDO

FALL

29 SEP 4

i98d

RECORD COPY

21d: 299212

29 Pop 16

---

## Page 99

14-00000

"DATE 29 SEPTEMBER STA

05442

PAGE I ONZ PAGAI

ATELGENCE ANORMATON CARE

ENEMY ONTOLACET ONE TO AND METHODS ANDEVIO

sing ad

a a intrasad outrido the Agony. Ponding rosts ol vis rovisa, a copy la promita

A ton yona

astrarco interesariba

DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION DE INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORICINATOR

DISTRIBUTION TO: SDU

1t0ne 50 00 0000

REPORT CLASS SECR

POOHAINING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALSOO

NOT RELEASABLE DO CONTRAGTORS OR CONTRACTORICONSULTANTS

COUNTRYS VENEZUELA

DO 18

LATE SEPTEMBER 1878

SUBJECTE

PRESENCE OF ORLANDO BOSCH IN VENEZUELA UNDER THE PRO-

PEGTION OF VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ

ACOL

SOURCES

VENEZUELA, CARACAS 120 SEPTEMBER 1970) FIELD NO. MVC-7498

A MILITARY OFFICER WHOSE POSITION GIVES HIM ACCESS TO

OFFICIAL REPORTS, HE IS A USUALLY RELIABLE REPORTER.

THIS INSOFMATION IS NOT TO BE DISCUSSED WITH ANY

PORESON aFFIGIALS, INGLUDING THOSE OF THE VENEZUELAN

DOVERNMENT,

DO IN LATE-SEPTEMBER 1070 GENERAL RAUL @ & MENE 8 DAINDA.

MEAD OF THE DIREGTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENGE AND

PRVENTION SDIGIDI, BASE THAT ORLANDO

TOSE HO A CUBAN EXILE

LEADER, 18 GURRENTLY IN VENUELA UNDER THE PROTHCTION OF PRESIDENY

CARLOS ANDREY

• . THE PRESIDENT, QIMENGA BAID, MAS ORDBRAD

104-068566

ORLANDO

A A @'I AI A PRESIDENTPAL SECURITY AND

INTOLLIQANGR ADVIBOR, TO PROTECT AND ASSIST BOSCH DURINO HIS STAY IN

---

## Page 100

14-00000

Dis 3000 09!

SECRET

N. 054842

ГОРВ

MARNING NOTIO

LUSCENCE SOURCES AND METHODE DIVOLVRI

PAGA 2 01 2 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION ANO USE OR THIS INFORMATION SUBNECT TE

CONTROLS STATED AT REGINAIMO, AND ENO DA REPORI

VENEZUELA: (FIELO COMMENTA FOR ANOTHER REPORT ON BOSCHIS PRESENCE

IN VENEZUELA SEE MUC-7A8S, PDTIRDB-313188AJO-Y0,.OF MID SEPTEMaER.

PROM A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY, FOR A REPORT ON GARCIAIS

•ROLE AS DE: FACTOR DISIP CHIEF SEE MYCOTA93, TOFIRDBO31S1

1876%

FROM ANOTHER SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY. WHILE CURRENTLY

A NATURALIZED VENEZUELAN, GARCIA IS A NATIVE BORN CUBAN, I

8, PRESIDENT. PEREZ, GIMENEZ SAID HAS BEEN SYMPATHETIC TO

BOSCH FOR SOME TIME. FURTHERMORE, GIMENEZ SAID THAT WHEN BOSCH WAS

DETAINED BY DISIP IN NOVEMBER 1974. PRESIDENT PEREZ. PERSONALLY

ARRANGED HIS RELEASE AND SUSSEQUENT TRAVEL TO CHILE.

S. FIELD DISSEMI EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACASI SENT TO MANAGUAR

GUATEMALA CITY: MEXICO CITY, KINGSTON. PORT OF SPAIN, SAN UGGES

ABORDETOWN, PANAMA CITY:

REPORT CLASS SE CRE PO-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREION NATIONALSO.

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS:

GLABDIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTINO OFFICER.

501 -299.242

---

## Page 101

14-00000

cadre sc assis o, 22,40

RiT.

STAST

8.9.00

IAN NEECPS

9849378

<SN/ID

ELAOSS

PAOR BLOBS

P0R623Z0078 SED. 98

SN PASATY

SDON 17700

EITE SANTO DOMINGO 7700

DIRECTOR.

MNINTEL REAM WHSPIKE

d0 STATION WOULD APPRECIATE MOS PHINKING ON MNO OR WHAT

ORGANIZATION CARRIED OUT LETELIER ASSASSINATION.

2. MAS FBI INVESTIGATION EXPLORED POSSIBILITY:

ABSASSINATION MIGHT DE MORX OF. ORLANDO 8 O S E HIS CORUP

S PBLE! 208-299893, EZO SMPDET.

DANN PROGRAM

AESEFACT

FREE F8 12.3)

GEN KEIT

23 Xp. 74

201-29929ª

809-300-28

RECORD COPY

---

## Page 102

14-00000

cora comes 11: 1

SEDGET

+ 0600.1005

angles.

STAST

1.A8

PLAN

EIAEEZ

PAGE

88•08

PORIZZZIZTE SEP 70

BEER E T ZZZLIS& SEP TO STAFE

CITE SANTO DOMINGO 18782

TOS PORT OF SPAIN INTO DIRECTOR, CARACAS, MANAGUA, GEORGETOWN.

LAAMIAMS, *

UNINTEL REAM

REPS A. CARACAS 30917 (IN 046854)

BO SANTO DOMINGO 17682

NOT SENT OR SEEDED LAUNLAMBI

1110323491

1:O NO OBJECTION RELEASE OF REF 8 MATERIAL ON ORLANDO

BOSCHO

20 FILEI 201-299292. EZ IMPDET

DAYBIS

S0ÂM 17202

PROGRAT

VEN

Cut ta (2, 1)

ТАТям Міз. бо

DON THUG

8 E:

RECORD COPY

22256076

201294192

---

## Page 103

14-00000

891/188=

The HCAp Lodison office.

2450 Massachusetts

AVB :

N.M..

Hashington. D.C.

20008

#::76420-15-83888

SECRET

if soptember 1976

Mt. Arthur stimpson.

с.І.л.,

Hashington. U.C.

Ros*

EJERCITO SECRETO DE CUBA

(SECRET ARMY OF CUBA - USA)

My Headquarters advises that the abovo captioned

faction, which is Miami based, has been sending what

appears

to be warning letters

to several Canadian establish-

ments, public and private, at home and abroad.

We had the

handwriting analyzed and

our expert stated that those

letters we do hava vere all witten by

tha, same person.

Recently the SUERCITO SECRETO DE CUBA (ESC) has

one to dir attantion agaln and we are speculating tha

it may be tied in with the UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIO

(URO), headed by orlando BodehAVILA: and composed of five

anti-Castro Cuban axile (ACT) terroriat groups: ACCION

CUBANA (AC) • PRENTE NACIONAL DE: LIBERACION CUBAND (FINC, •

KOVIMIENTO NACICNALISTA CUIANO: (CNN) • BRIGADE 2506, and

THE 17th OF APRIL MOVEMENT.

JRO sar into boing. In June 1976 and: since that

alme has orainad rasponsibility for avaral tarrorist

attaoks, d.ã., tha airport bombing in Kingston, Jamaica,

the attompted

kidnappang of the Cuban Consul in Merida!:

Maxiaos and murdar of an

offjalal of the Cuban Institute

CROSS

fILE COPY YOR

201°

298292

DO NOT

cont'd...

---

## Page 104

14-00000

1642018-83181

di Soprambar 1976

l Planardãs during the attoanted kidnapping, as Molly

= the bambing of the Guyanese Consulato Conoral 1

part of spaín, trinidad.

Ho would appreciate secelving

any backaround

data you may bo

ablo to supply us rogarding the URO

and INERCITO SECRETO DE CUBA.

¿1 a1m11ar request la being made to the rBi.

YOUrE trULY.

Kennoth G. Osborne,

sistant Liaison Officer

This thermage!

uncillance sapposit ol

l1. 11:8d.

Al Us C0r1ma11 0l Cities,

Annent of

Government

---

## Page 105

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE (-

OF 0

i....

SECRET

песком

STAFF

соня: LA8

• *

228712

• RECTOR D

937006

что: 505 2

C'

927-.

SEC---.

PLS RELAY CARACAS 30907 lIN OUZGODI TO SANTO DOMINGO FOR INFO.

TO: CABLE SEG. Y

EE IMPDET.N

COPY. ATTACHED•

CLORDS

CALAIGA

DATE: 20 SEPT 76

•ORIGI

HARRIET WEILER

URT:

CALAIVER

ASTI

ANPRODUCTION AY OTHER THAN THE INGUINE OFFICE 16 FRONIBITEO

IMPORT

SL: DYI 007BA6

---

## Page 106

14-00000

i.1, 2005 :180

DIESEO 80.

aura con

LA 30

BETTON!

236560

SECRET

PRIT 3

FILE, TZ, BBRAFBRSIN IP/AN, IID, OPS/INT • CS N.

19: 00

28

WEENCY VESSAGE

1.a1

E1 1555

PAGE 81

TOR: 1839537 SEP 76

SECRET 18172ZE SEP T6 INTEL

EITE CARAGAS JE86T IHACKELING AGHANG,

HOG,

PALUNITY DIFEGUN INFO MANAGUA.

GUATEMALA COPY, MEXICO

HJK

• RINGSION. PORT

HUS SPAINO SAN JOSES GRONGETONNA

In 04So80

-caRi 30087

Niv -7483

5D

PANAMA CITY,

WNINTEL KMSTONE MHSPIKE

SUPDATAI ERMAHDO FOR SOURCE DESCRIPTION. SOURCES

NRINKD IET:S

DIRECTLY.

SOURCE PARA 2 FIELD COMMENT

OD OBJECTIVES dod.

INDEX BOSCHO FERNANDEZ, AND PENA, FILE DRFERRED.

Cb. BY: 035133.

FILEDE

18/19102

DoG, dileTo. seR.

SEP ZY 1976

MILNUTILNED

i U SEP.

8805!

RECORD COPY

0901 - 0148-982

18 вири26.

---

## Page 107

14-00000

S015 aaron

ChA ONTERNAL USE 6P8"

NTELICENCE ANORMITION CARE

SENTIVE DITRLAGENCA ONE DO TO MATIONS DIVOL YED

DA: E.

Id SEPTEMBER JE

IN

043608

PAGE I OF

PAGES

stranico intonatio

DISSENISATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLID. BY ORIGINATOR

DISTRIBUTION TO. SDO

REPORT CLASS SEER E POOHARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

..

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALSO

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTOORS OR CONTRACTORICONSULTANTS.

COUNTRY: VENEZUELDICUBA

MID-SEPTEMBER $976

SUBJECTI

ARRIVAL OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH IN VENEZUELAS

AND HIS COMMENTS ON THE ACTIVITIES O$ HIS GROUP

ACO

8 VENEZUELA, CARACAS 118 SEPTEMBER 1976) FIELD NO. HWC-7483

IN MID-SEPTEMBER 1976. ORLANDO

e O S C He A CUBAN EXILE

LEADER, SAID THAT HE HAS UNITED ALL OF THE VARIOUS CUBAN EXILE GROUPS

INTO ONE CLOSELY-KNIT ORGANIZATION WHICH FOLLOWS HiS LEAD. BOSCH

DAVE SME GROUP NO TITLE, BUT SAID THAT IT WAS WELL-ORGANIZED AND

- PLANNED TO CONTINUE FIGHTINO THE REGIME OF CUBAN PRIME MINISTER

PICEL CASTAG.

BO. BOSCH, WHO ARRIVED IN CARACAS, VENERUELA, VIA AN UNSPRIPIED

sie.

ROUTE ON OR ABOUT 13 BEPTEMBER, SAID PHAT ON A PREVIOUS VIBLY TO

VENEZUELA HE HAD MET WITH PREBIDENT CARLOS ANDRES D ER & & AND

ORGANDO @ A A CY AI AN EXTRA-OFFICIAL PREBIDENTIAL BECURITY

---

## Page 108

14-00000

IN

043608

TDAR

WARNDiG NOTICE

SENSTTIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES M'D METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE. 2 OF. 4 PAGES

"SECRET

• FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION, SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END Of REPORT.

CHIEF. DURING THIS MEETING PEREZ TOLD BOSCH THAT HE SYMPÄTHIZED

WITH BOSCH'S ÄNTI-CASTRO EFFORTS BUT THAT HE WOULD ALLOW NO SÚCH

ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA, AT THAT TIME BOSCH. GAVE PEREZ HIS NORD

THAT HE WOULD UNDERTAKE NO TERRORIST ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA, AND

PEREZ, IN TURN, GAVE BOSCH A TOKEN CONTRIBUTION. OF U.S. S588.08

FOR HIS ORGANIZATION, IN RECENTLY ARRANGING FOR HIS RETURN YO

VENEZUELA, BOSCH SAID THAT HE HAD BEEN PLEASED TO FIND THAT VENE-

ZUELAN AUTHORITIES ISSUED HIM A VISA, IN HIS TRUE NAME, WITHÖUT

DELAY: FIELD COMMENTS

A. BOSCH COMPLAINED PHAT HE HAS RUNNINO QUE OF DARE HAVENS.

- THE DOMINICANS, HE SAID, HAD ASKED MEM TO LEAVE AND THAT. OF COURSE.

HB. WAS NOT WELCOME IN THU UNITED STATES. WHILE THA, GOVERNMENT OF

→.::

CHILE, ME SAID, HAD DONE NOTHINO ¡O CURE HIS ACTIVITIES, IT ALBO

DAVE HIM NO REAL SUPPORT,. COSTA RICA, ME NOTED NITH DIBDAIN, 18

PRO-CASTRO.

D, BOSEM SAID. THAP HE NOW REALINED THAT IT WAS A MISTAKE 40

---

## Page 109

14-00000

IN.

0:3606

..TOFIR

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES.

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFODMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING ANT EliA OF REFORT.

chartsoett

HAVE CARRIED OUT. BOMBINGS IN THE UNITED STATES AND SAID THAT HE DID

NOT PLAN TO MAKE UNITED STATES PERSONNEL OR PROPERTY THE TARGETS

OF ANY FURTHER INCIDENTS, IN COMMENTING ON HIS FEBRUARY 1996

DETENTION BY COSTA RICAN OFFIGIALS, BOSCH SAID THAT HE HAD NEVER

INTENDED TO MAKE AN ATTEMPT ON THE LIFE OF THE UNITED STATES

SECRETARY OF STATE WHO WAS AT THAT TIME VISITING LATIN AMERICÃ.

Bi IN COMMENTING ON THE DISAPPEARANGE OF THO CUBAN EMBASSY

OFFICIALS IN BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA, BOSEN SAID THAT DESPITE RUMORS

TO THE CONTRARY, HIS GROUP MAD NOT KIDNAPPED THE CUBANS. 308ëM

OPINED THAT THE CUBANS MAD PROBABLY DEFECTED AND WOULD TURN UP

SOONER OR LATER.

P, BOSCH. WHO HAS BAINEE A GOOD DEAL OF WEIGHT, BAID THAT HA

WAS 8LL AND PHYBICALLY EXHAUSTED, NEVERTHELESS, BOSCH: INDICATED THAT

ME MOULD CONTINUR PIONTINO AGAINST THE CASTRO REGIMA, ¡SOURÉE

COMMENTI BOSCH 18 OBVIOUBLY ILL AND SUFFERINO PREM EYE PROBLEMS,

DEBASTE BOSCHIS GLAIME: OR A BPRONO, UNITED ANTI-CASTRO ARQUA,

DOROHIO DRTORIORATINO PHYSICAL CONDITION MAKE IT DOUBTRUS THIS NE

MILL DE ADLE TO MAINTAIN CONTROL OF 19 PER VERY LONO,!

D, DIRLO DISSEMI EMBASSY, PUI AP CARAEADE BANT TOO SANTO

DOMINOD, DAN JOGNI

MANAQUA, MEXICO CITY, QUATRMALA

---

## Page 110

14-00000

3007 dOLT ON

"SECRET

IN

043608

TOFAR

WARNING NOTIC

ENSTTIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCE: AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE y CS y PACES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END. OF REPORT.

CITY, KINGSTON, GEORGETOWN, PANAMA CITY.

REPORT CLASS S E ERE TOWARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALSOO

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORI CONSULTANTS.:

GLASSIFIED BY FECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDSO?

000-+77279

---

## Page 111

14-00000

STATE CABLES

FROM AMEMBASSY GUATEMALA 6515

DATE:

20 SEPTEMBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: ALLEGED PLOTTING BY CUBAN EXILE

ORLANDO BOSCH

---

## Page 112

14-00000

Fil

SECRET 171325Z SEP 76 STAFF

CITE

E:

TOS

OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP

FROM

WINTEL

SIBUS POSSIBLE OPERATIONAL ACCESS TO DOMINICAN REPUBLIC OFFICIAL

do OUR COOPERATIVE CONTACT.

OF

• HAS INFORMED US

THAT ANSELMO PAULINO,

DOMINICAN AMBASSADOR TO FRANCE AND SWITZERLAND,

MAY WISH TO ASSIST THE AGENCY IN REGARD TO THE DETERIORATING POLITI-

CAL SITUATION IN HIS HOME COUNTRY. PAULINO'S SON, A NATURALIZED US

CITIZEN, WORKS WITH

AND WILL BE INTHUDUCED TO US IN INE

NEAR FUTURE..

&o PLEASE DETERVINE FOR US WHETHER LA DIVISION MAS ANY OPERATIONAL

INTEREST IN PAULINO AND/OR

IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC IN GENERALe

FILES MISC

E& IMPDET CL BY 013544

Sulares?

2819776

A0222

---

## Page 113

14-00000

TNт904944

688-801

4-1: 3005:01001

: 01888009-990

99Ra1 200000

SECRET

12.

She H1: 004697

ADVANCE COPY ISSURD'SLOTTER

_..d..

1805:

LA 30

FILE. VR, DBBAFBBBER IP/AS, IID. OPS/INT • CS 4.

AGEIDROS OPSLITE Y.

236568

EL A535

AEIMAY MESSAEL

PAGE 8I

TOR11010937 SEP 26

TN DEJ608

CAND

30907

SE CR E T 10S7BTE SEP TO INTEL

H4 - 7483

CITE CARACAS 3E9OY SHACKELING ACTINGI

TOs. PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO MANAGUAL GUATEMALA CITY, MEXICO CITY.

KINGSTON, PORT OF SPAINESAN JASE, GEORGETOWN"

PANAMA CITY.

HNINTEL KMSTONE.. MHSPIKE

SUPDATAS ERWAHDO FOR SOURCE DESCRIPTION. SOURCES.

DIRECTLY. SOURCE PARA Z FIELD COMMENT

OD OBJECTIVEl J.1.

INDEX BOSCH, FERNANDEZ, AND PENA, FILE DEFERRED.

GL. BY 835133.

FILEDI

18/1910₴

1B SEP!5

34

F)32-9-28

---

## Page 114

14-00000

DA DISINAL USE ONLY

INTELIGENCE IINFORMATION CALLI

DISTINE INTELICONE DONE SO TO MEETINGS PINOR YEO

DATE

¿Ó SÉPTEMBER J9

043608

PAGE I OR

PACES

The tallowing rapa

in every astron docu

"extronico intonatio

ISELATION AND EXTRACTIUN OF INFORMLATION CONTROLLED BY ORICINATI

ISTRIBUTION TO: . SDU

REPORT CLASS S E ER É POONARNINE NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOS RELEASADLE TO FOREION NATIÓNALSO

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTOORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

COUNTRYS VENEZUELA/CUBA

DOE

& MID-SEPTEMBER 8078

SUBJECTE

ARRIVAL OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH IN VENEZUELAI

AND HIS COMMENTS ON THE AGTIVITIES OF HIS GROUP

A0.

¿ VENEZUELA, CARAGAS 118 SEPTEMBER 1976) FIELD NO. MÜE-7483

S.. IN MIDOSEPTEMBER 1978 ORLANDO BOS E HO A CUBAN EXILE

•LEADERO SAID THAT HE HAS UNITED ALL. OF THE VARIOUS CUBAN EXILE GROUPS

INTO ONE GLOSELY-KNIT ORGAÑIZATION WHICH FOLLOWS HIS LEAD. BOSCH

GAVE THE GROUP NO TITLE, BUT SAID. THAT IT WAS. WELL-ORGANIZED AND

- PLANNED TO CONTINUE FIONTING THE REGIME OF CUBAN PRIME MINISTEN

FIDEL CASTADi

•:8i BOSCHO WHO ARRIVED IN CARACAS; VENEZUELA. VIA AN UNAPÖIFIED

: ROUTE ON OR ABOUT 13 BAPTEMBER: SAID THAT ON A PREVIOUS VISI: TO

VENEQUELA HE MAD MAT WITH PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES P ER ES AND

ORLANDO @ A ROLAI AN AXTRA-OFFIGIAL PRESIDENTIAL BECURITE

---

## Page 115

14-00000

1=

8000 8000

DURACE

NATIVE UNTELUCENCIRNDE NOTSO SETHODS DITOLVED

PADE ? OR A PAOLI

SECRET

UNTHER DISSENMLATION AND USE ON THIS INFORMATION BANECT M

CONTROLS STATED AY BEGINMING AND END OR AIRONI

CHIEF, DURIAZ THIS MEETING PEREZ TOLD BOSCH THAT HE BEMPAPHTIED

MITH GOSENIS ANTI-CASTRO EFFORTS BUT THAT NE HOULD ALLOM NO BÜCH

ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA, AT THAT TIME BOSCH GAVE PERER NIS WORD

THAT ME MOULO UNDERTAKE NO PERRORIST ACTIVITIES: IN VENEZUELA, AND

PERER, IN TURN, GAVE BOSCH A TOKEN CONTRIQUTION. OF U.S, 8980:00

FOR HIS ORGANIZATION, IN RECENTLY ARRANGING FOR HIS RETURM 7Ö

VENEZUELA, BOSCH SAID THAT HE HAD BEEN PLEASED TO FIND THAT ÜRNEO

BUELAN AUTHORITIES ISSUED HIM À VISA, IN HIS TRUE NAME, NITHÖUT

DELAY, FIELD COMMENT:

A. BOSCH COMPLAINED THAT HE WAS RUNNING OUT OF BAFE HAVENS.

THE DOMINICANS, HE SAID, HAD ASKED HIM TO LEAVE AND THAT, OF ¿OURSE.

ME WAS NOT WELCOME IN THE UNITED STATES: WHSLE THR-GOVERNMENT OF

CHILE, ME SAID, HAD DONE NOTHING TO CURB HIS AGTIVITIES, IT ALSO

BAVE HIM NO REAL SUPPORT, COSTA RICÃO HE NOTED WITH. DISDAIN. 18

BRO-CASTRO:

SAID THAT HE NOW REALIZED THAT IT WAS A MISTAKE YO

---

## Page 116

14-00000

Sin 500 do

9^3638

WARNING NOTICI

DISITIVE INTELUCENCE SOLACES AND METHODS LATOLVED.

PASs 3'00 4 PAGES.

SECRET

PUTINER DISSEMINATIONI AND USE OF THIS INFCRMLATONI SUBHEET MI

OATROLS STATED Al MEGIMININO AMO ENO O$ REPOI

MAVE CARRIED OUT BOMBINGS IN THE UNITED STATES AND SAID THAT HE DID

NOT PLAN TO MAKE UNITED SPATES PERSONNEL OR PRODEOPY PHE PAREETS

DE ANY FURTHER INCIDENTS. IN COMMENTINO ON MIS FERRUARY 197A

DETENTION BY COSTA RICAN OFFICIALS, BOSCH SAID

THAT ME MAD NEVER

INTENDED TO MAKE AN ATTEMPT ON THE LIFE OR THE UNITED STATES

SEGRETARY OF STATE WHO WAS AT THAT TIME VISSTING LATIN AMERICA.

Do IN COMMENTING ON THE DISAPPEARANCE OF THO CUBAN EMBASSY

OFFICIALS IN BUENOS ALRESA ARGENTINA, BOSCH SAID THAT. DESPITE RUMORS

PO THE CONTRARY, HIS GROUP MAD NOT KIDNAPPED THE CUBANS... BOSEH

OPINED THAT THE CUBANS HAD PROBABLY DEFECTED AND WOULD TURN UP

SOONER OR LATER.

8. BOSCH, WHO HAS GAINED A GOOD DEAL OF WEIGHT, SAID THAI HE

MAS SUL AND PHYSICALLY EXHAUSTED, NEVERTHELESS, BOSCH' INDICATED THAT

ME WOULD CONTINUE FIGHTING AGAINST THE CASTRO REGIME. (SOURCE

COMMENTS BOSCH IS OBVIOUSLY ALL AND SUFFERINO FROM EYE PROBLEMS:

DESPITE BOSCH'S CLAIMS OF A STRONG, UNITED ANTI-CASTRO GROUP;

BOSCHIS DETERIORATING PHYSICAL CONDITION MAKE SP DOUBTPUL THAG HE

WILL BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN CONTROL OF IT FOR VORY LONO. I

DO PIELD DISSEMI EMBASSY, MOL AT CARACARI SENT TOI MANIO

DOMINGO, SAN JOSEA

• MANAQUA, MEXICO CIPY, QUATEMALA

---

## Page 117

14-00000

класт.

020252066:0090

INDAME

CAS

-aciono

P882J80

692.0N1я

FILE

NEr,

ACLADO

ostie coes

059

E A428

sile

• CN

D4S/IT6S

1e72

PADE 0S

TORISORSESA RED iO

IN DOS0I0

MAMA &Z400

CITE MAMAQUA &ZA0R

POI PRIORITY DIRECTOR, QUATANALA CITY, MEXICO CIPY INTO CARACAR.

KIMASTON, PORT OF SPAIN, SAM JOSBO ORORONTOUN, DAMANA CITY.

NNINTEL RE AM MHSPIKE

NOFSI. A: MANAQUA 13A78 ONOT DENT ALL MÓDEESI (IN

D. SANTO DOMINGO 12082 (N 039241)

¿, GRYTHROIDOSS REPORTED THAT ORLANDO BOSCH DEPARTED

6,193

MANAQUA POR QUATEMALA CITY ON 8 SEPTENBÑÀ VIA COPA TLIONT

20.

8, ERYTHROIDOSS APOLODIRAD POR DELAY IN ADVISINO SPATION.

SUT SAID HIS SURVEILLANCE MAD LOST BOSCH AÑO ONLY DISCOVERED

HIS DEPARTURE ON 13 SEPTEMPER APTS? REVINHÃO ELIONT MANIFESTO.

S: POR MEXICO CITYÀ FUBARE ADVIDE LADÄL APPACHED: OF

BOSOMIS TRAVEL.

A, POR GUATEMALA CITTI ARD A AND ARBVIOUS TRATTIÒ

REPORTAD BORCH ARRIVAL IN MAÑAQUA ON 80 MUdUei:

#: 18681- 281-208298. B86 IMPDETo

30 1.818

(2. 3)

24L+

RECORD COPY

16 Ap 16

201-299292

---

## Page 118

14-00000

5007

043606

SENTINE LATELUCE CAR DUE AS AND METHODS INVOLVED

'SECRET

ГОРІВ

PACt y OF i PADES

CITY, MINOSTON, GEORGETOWN, PANAMA CITY.

REPORT CLASS

•SEER E POOKARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE: INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIÖN NATIÖÑALSTO

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORI CONSULTANTS.

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER.. XGDS-?:

---

## Page 119

14.00000

• FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 27 AUGUST 1y76

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: ORLANDO LAZARO FERNANDEZ VAZQUEZ

FBI FILE NO: 105-22619 (MIAMI)

---

## Page 120

14-00000

OUTGOIN» MESSAGE

maurant

OMF

•

сист

SCORE T

STAFF

COME: CAE iNNO

1529072

DIRECTOR

913396

DISSEM BY: O

по толя

PER

TOS INMEDIATE GEORGETOUN INFO SANTO DOMINGO. Y

UNINTEL KMSTONE Y

REF: A. DIRECTOR 910267%

B. GEORGETOWN 21275 LIN 940247 las4

S. O PERMISSION GRANTED TO PASS INFO CONTAINED IN SANTO DOMINGO

3?682, PARAGRAPH TWO, TO CHARGE FOR FOREIGN MINISTER

Zo FILE:"

203-299292. =2 IMPDET-r

TRAYEL PROGRAH

ASSTRACT

INDEX

PREPARE FOR FAMAR

Ccue nn. (2. 3)

CAGIC DEN (10)

TOR TONG

BATTI

38 SEPT 76

JOARE MARES CA

LASCARIET

RATI

2844

SINO CHANGE

ASPRODUCTION BY OTHER

¡VINO OFFIGE IS PROMIBITED

&BGRET

1/5 Pes 16

501-299292

TANGAR

IMPDET

CL SYL' 023920

RECOND COPY

MANE

---

## Page 121

14-00000

100.0..

29010.1=

121 R

SECRET

59.1.

LA8.

RE

FILE

IPIAN, DDOZ, ACC/ADO,

0B/IT64, NE8, 73/E92, 554, 55/50Q4,

т 224998

ELAZET

PAGE

TEAS9G23E9Z

SEP

76

IN E3529%

Gudi

89822

SECRET LAZZZRE SEO TO STAFE

CITE GUATEMALA 51. " :8E22

PO1 DIRECTOR INFE MEXICO CITYO LAMANIA SANTO DOMINGO:

WNINTEL

MHSPIKE

REFE

DIRECTOR Gg277:

REF BOMBING. WHICH WIDELY COVERED IN LOÇAL PRESS, OCCURRED

File: Bread 201.

ON 31 AUGUST IN TOE MEXICAN CONSULATE IN DOWNTOWN GUATEMALA CiTY.

THE CONSULATE SUFFEREE SOME DAMAGE AND A RECEPTIQNIST WAS

SLIGHTLY INJURED, SINCE BOMB EXPLODED WITHIN THE MEXICAN

CONSULATE OFFICES, ANDEN LOCATED IN A LARGE BUILDING. IT 85

LIKELY THAT THE CENSULATE HAS INDEED THE TARGET. NEITHER

ESMICA-G8 NOR ESDEMO& PWHE INVESTIGATED THE BOMBINGS MAD ANY

MARD SNFORMATION GA THE IDENTITIES OR MOTIVES OF THE BOMBERS.

ALPHOVEN SOME SUSS:DION WAS APPACHED TO THE QUARD NNO WAS MOMA

BICK ON THE DAY EE ONE BOMBINO.

8. NO TILd.

E20. IMPDET,

---

## Page 122

14-00000

STATE CABLE

FROM AMEMBASSY SANTO DOMINGO 4497

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

TERRORISM AND ASSASSINATION PIOTS:

MEETING WITH WILLS

---

## Page 123

14-00000

cade si, 000n. 27...

PELAS LANT DITAND

LAS

. TrOM o

8. 22 4021

A. FILE. VR

ERNES, 0002

AGE/ODO, DISHTGE, OPSLINE

C1Y, PSlEGa

ELAGOS

PAGE 81

TOR1 1423482 SEP

IN 839288

SO OM

87682

8 8 1688292 SEP 16. STAFR

CITE SANTO DOMINGO 17682

TOS PRIORITY. DIRECTOR, GEORDETONN INFO PRIORITY CARACAS, GUATEMALA

CITY, KINOSTON, MANAGUA, PORT OF SPAIN, SAN JOSE:

na 190618

MNINTEL REAM MHSPIKE

REFSI À, EMBASSY GEORGETOWN EXDIS 1818 (#95266)

i (2.3)

,S1. 81.1

Bo EMBASSY SANTO DOMINGO EXDIS 449% (*

Tiaa las

S, REF A MESSAGE, WHIGH SENT TO INFO ADDEE EMBASSIES,

REPORTS ON ¡O SEPT MEETINO OF AMBASSADOR AND LEGAL ATTACHE

LEO SAHO IS APPARENTLY ASSIONED CARACASS WITH FOREIGN

MINISTER

CONCERNINO CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATIONS AND

COMBINO OF GUYANESE CONSULATE IN PORT. OF SPAIN: ASCORDINO TO

-. i

RER AO LEO SAID THAT CORU AND ORLANDO BOSCH OPERATINO OUT OF

SANTO DOMINGO.

.:..

RECOND COPY

14. Lup 16

201-299292

---

## Page 124

14-00000

ПТ1U8 JM

CADE BEC. DIASED

MASON UNIT DOTARO...

2ua91.+

woe!

04-21!01

HE

остом о

т 224821

TOTAL COPAS

_ SEGRET.

FILE

VR

PAGE 02-02

PORI: 12110Z SER 16

So FUEl 201-289282.

E2. IMPDET.

NO RECORD IN CABLE SECRETANTAT

That 9x2:

i canted cras

would tered did dar

270

72324.

one water:

d2'.

412E

mystery she ste

0X:00: 294

TAMS

94024

rish

ST

We dad,

IN 039241

SDOM 17082

*T.

---

## Page 125

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

and vor os

381

SECRET

sir statet mot

DIRECTOR

ND CAB DOE

DO NEE AGCIDD

JET7

→ misin

UNINTEL AHSPIKE Y

Do PYIS PER LNERGO INFO DTD 3 SEP 260 ORLANDO UPS? S 6 HO

HEAD OF CUBAN EXILE GROUP "CORU", CALLED CONTACTS IN "JADVISING

THAT CORU REPS BOMBED MEXIÇAN EMBASSY IN GUATEMALA CITY ON & SER..

CAUSING EXTENSIVE DAMAGE. END FYI. HOWEVER, FRIS INFO DD 2 SEP

INDICATED THAT MEXICAN CONSULATE, GUATEMALA CITY, BOMBED, AND

THAT ATTACK MAY HAVE BEEN INTENDED FOR MINING COMPANY OCCUPYING

SAME BLDG AS CONSULATE. Y

Z. WOULD APPRECIATE CONFIRMATION OF BOMBINGA, PLUS ADDITIONAL

INTO INCLUDING CLARIFICATION OP TARGET, IF POSSIBLE. Y

0,02

N8?12168

¿DO NO FILE...E? IMPDETON

'COORDINATION:: LA/MACAIM

LASCAR

LA/COG

0-200-6-48413

BAPTI

19 SEPTEMBER 19%6

ORIQI

UNITI •

OPSAITG

BATI

9496

8. Enter

eoe80

14 dep 16

201-299292

Recons Cory

WAFAODUSTIGH BF OTHER THAN INE ISSUINO OFFIGS IN PROMIDITED

IMPOST

CL BYI DNATAS

---

## Page 126

OUTGOING MESSAGE

•ЗА-

200

OMF "O

алкасато

SECRET

COM: LAG

9623532

NES,

DIRECTOR

Acs/osg sD02

DDO/DO,

OsseM ar, 45

PER

DUDS, c/oRs,

POS PRIORITY GEORGETOUN INFO PRIORITY MANAGUA-Y

UNINTEL MHSPIKE Y

REF: GEORGETOUN ZIZ6O |IN 0319931S ENOT NEEDED MANAGUAS Y

So HE HAVE LEARNED THAT THE STATE DEPARTMENT IS BREQUESTING

INFORMATION FROM THE FBI ON THE ACTIVITIES AND PERSONNEL OF THE

COORDINATION OF THE UNITED REVONULUTIONARY ORGANIZATION ECORUS.

THE DEPARTHENT WILL INFORM EMBASSY GEORGETOUN WHAT INFORMATION THE

FBI IS WILLING TO RELEASE FOR PASSAGE TO THE GOG. RATHER THAN

REQUEST SEPARATE AND DUPLICATE INFORMATION FROM THE FBI, WE

SUGGEST THAT YOU ADVISE THE CHARGE OF THE DEPARTMENT'S ACTION IN

THIS REGARD. Y

TRAVEL INFORMATION SHOWS ONE G-H. NOBLES U.S. CITIZEN. BORN 4 AUG

5944, PLANNED TO TRAYEL TO EAST GERMANY IN 1564I HGWEVER. THERE IS

NO CONFIRMATION OF TRAVEL. M

Do ME HAVE NO ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON CORU.: WE HAVE LEARNED

THAT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA AND FRANK CASTRO

WERE IN NICARAGUA AS OF & SIPTEMBER: IN VICU OP

PAZ

DAYSI

UNITI

27-901-742365

RECORD COOT

- go 16

6801-249492

ARPAJOUGTION OF OTHER THAN

IN IABUIMO OAFICE ID PROMISITED

IMPOBT

Ch. BYI 0289838

---

## Page 127

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

кло

-

000

OMF O

ПАКВАРВАТОМ

SECRET

крачкая заколко сперсатая

STAFF

÷ CONP:

еся

DIRECTOR

ная

₴

DISSAM AYI

JFO:

910267

О отко #

от

4. FILES 202-2992924 203-7423650 EZ IMPDET-r

trztant don rsucte due cavucr de dee wetcrshare postao tr

es to teuoscan peoi radito dza gmoraeute eioi erelaecthe 222eA

ueiee odurico apog berof acrccod Pan berdoás dreeG Utx 22 12H

SEP 2 0 78 MO00 YeRNeN2. de:POe GUCCESPEOE X50% 09K

.":':

sodren dud

EaavpScuron a

,?13RC224

SxeCnE

3993274e 2he dos de doesorancesea

SA0 CBAdco 26v4 negaraE

MySUakA

573

130 31 71: 14.4÷

EL L: 198

1819

sih.

Nauk!!

MA.E1

Pal-'g: :

BATOI @ SEFT T6 • RN

ORIeI

UMIPI AGILAIGARIGT

EXTI

8849

Bifaiten

PXU62A06

DC/bA/RCA,

JOHN BECKWITH

STELESOORDS

з- Caet: Fiia 800-69

AIPAOBU.. M BY OTRER THAM IMA IBAUIO 0PAIÇAI_,OITE8

BiCh DId

REP

AESLAANÇAR

IMPDAX

Se oy, 018928

---

## Page 128

14-00000

icely

ADVANCE SODY ISBURO BLOTED

ACTION UNIT

LAS

AÇTION.

FILE.

ses/Itay

210068

E1A294

SECRET

va. PlAN 0002. ACC/100

25/562

STAFF

PAGE R1

TOR:0822947 SEP 76

IN 833323

MANA . 12478

SECRET EBZ100Z SEP 76 STAFF

CITE MANAGUA 12478

TO: DIRECTOR. LA¡MIAMI, MEXICO CITY INFO SAN jOSE. SANTO DOMINGO.

CARACAS, PANAMA CITY.

WNINTEL REAM MASPIKE

• REFS: A. MaNAUGA

1. ERTTHROID-33 REPORTED FRANK CASTRO PAZ DEPARTED

MANAGUA FOR MIAMI ON 5 SEPTEMBER 76 VIA TACA FLIGHT NO. 310.

ORLANDO BOSCH IS STILL. IN MANAGUA AND, ACCORDING TO

ERYTHROID-33, HAS CONTACTED SEVERAL MEMBERS OF THE LOCAL. CUBAN

COMMUNITY,

POR MEXICO CITRO PER MEXICO EATY 37625. RLEASE

ADVISE LEADAL ATTACHE THAT BOSCH IS STILL IN MANAQUA..

#e: +8681 801-299898.

EZI IMPDET.

RECORD COPY

201-299292

---

## Page 129

14-00000

720020

SECRET.

ADIARGE SORI

189208.2010

IsTA55

LAF

ACTION .

plAN

isolio cloes

44 :PS/562

209997

E1A252

Ni:

PAGE DS-BI

TOR: 0821232 SEP 76

SECRET 0BZOSAZ SEP 76 STAFF

CITE MANAQUA 12868

.

1,09

TOS MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR.

MNINTEL

0, 418

REFS: A. MANAGUA 12962 (027103)

84:2

B. MEXICO CITY 37673 (032193)

SO. PER REF A.

MAY BE TOLD THAT BOSCH MAS

IN MANAGUA AS OF SO AUGUSTe

Z• STATION STILL WAITING FOR

TO REPORT ON

WHERE BOSCH IS CURRENTLY LOCATED.

WILL ADVISE WHEN THIS

INFORMATION RECEIVED.

3. DEFER FILE, EZ, IMPDET.

orland's (80061281

IN 833318

MANA

32468)

RECORD COPY

08 Lept76

7015299292

---

## Page 130

14-00000

0 60 0003 800

SEC

on 221 a come

191-01110:

I out.

18882

3:A890

PAGE 08-88

TORIBYZSSOR SER TO.

88 ER E I BIRDION SER DO STATE

CITE MEXICO.GLPY.JPOPS

TOS MANAQUA INTO DIRECTOR.

SO HEQUEST PASS FOLLOMING MESSAGE TRON LEGAL APPACHE

MEXICO CITY!

WORD

PROMS LEGAT,

MEXICO. URGENTLY REQUEST THAT.

BE APPROACHED

FOR ANY CONFIRMATION THAT ORLANDe BOSCHO ANTI-CASTRO.

ACTIVIST, NAS. IN MANAGUA AS OF SEPTEMBER THO LÄST. "

?

FILE 5002-104.

E2. IMPDET.

IN AS21JS

MEX! SY87S

MIR STAI

IT R TAWA

Far 73r

FON TALE.

RECONO COPY

0.7 Lep 76

201-999272

---

## Page 131

14-00000

FBI CABLE

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

DATE: 3 SEPTEMBER 1976

SUBJECT:

COORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY

ORGANIZATIONS (CORU)

---

## Page 132

14-00000

.

OUTGOING - MESSAGE

OMF

SECRET

70795

clops, c/cra, clopslate a

• 132

TOR FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTISATIONIDINTELLIGENCE DIVISION.

DEPT OP STATE/ISY/S/PIBi SECRET SERVICES/INTELLIGENCE DIVISION. U

SE ERÈ I--HARHINO MOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASADLE TO PORETGN NATIONALS--NOT

RELLASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS: U

SUBJECTI DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - NICARAGUA, ORLANDO B O S CM AVILA.

¡CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST. Y

FIRCS-332/02698-76}

SO REFERENCE IS MADE TO PIRCI-332/02647-76. DATED 3I AUGUST

3976. THE FOLLOMING ADDITIONAL INPORTATION MAS BEEN OBTAIMED ON..

ORLANDO BOSE H AVILAS

Гріски

ON I SEPTEMBER 1976

THAT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA HAD ARRIVÉ IN MANAGUA, AN AS GIVEN PE PAZ,

HISSION TO REMAIN THERE IN TRANSIT STATUS FOR A PERIOD OF UP TO

THIRTY BOIS.

FONZES SON & SEPTEMBER 297%

REPORTED

THAT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA HAD OBTAINED A VENEZUELAN VISA. IN MANAGUA. Y

I-D GLASSIFIED BY RECORDED NEFORTING OFFICER. EGDS 1IZ.N.

BATTI

0R180.

UNITE

EMPI

2 вер. 766

281-2992922

RECORD COPY

MATAN ОРОШАЕВ

ASFROFYCTICN OT OPHEA THAT TRE ISSUINO OFFICE I PROMIBITTO

in rot un

IMPOET

CL BY: 086090

---

## Page 133

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

-

он .

GRT

907954

DASCO OME NAMAGUA 32463 IIN O27S031 AND SANTO DOMINGO i7ESS.

IIM DETRAAI S SEPTEMBER S976• PROSECTU, ERRATIC/EMPYREX ODUEGTIVER I.

CADLE SICI PLS MANE CES COPIES AVAILABLE TO IPAN POR 201-299292.

,,%.

tordttt lid. iehth

100.

die eurr chind vaatatratt

1cc0x.coe

AC TNOS IA DR

CaoeeaTHd 2959

22000006 ulf.1

• 2hs8i

slalenuiooe did

PAN 8 1.77

IrNorLdaE NEscOR2ales

mesacir foowtraco rebrates:

De orodars dc corder Caue pegsal

€827

7073'

240 56b9 782

10952 0080i

RSCODS NungrAOst TN4

46. HT

2060H910

MAS SLZESNA PISRR CALAICAR7

ie dodiin

SOPSILSN

•LAICOG

IIN DRAFTI

IIN DRAFTI

craerecan c

250

PART

Lo tro ta"

BATHI A SEPTEMBER

119760.

ORISI

HHITI LA/MECAMPCN

AXTI

9044

Ad cit

BGGREY

18.Bm

Sahaimscone

приевует - ву етмея

мдкіти деня ондерно поу В 8

IMPDeT

CL BYI DAHLO9O

---

## Page 134

14-00000

5/5.

912.

SECRET

+ 83642949820688

STeEr 233224

15:989-00010.

I. FRE.

LA8

va. Lelar, NE8, DC02,

, PS/EG2

т 294588

ELALGO

IN 927J03

TORIESZZIZZ SEP IO

САЙЇ: 9A756

& 1 0822008 SEP Y8 STATE

Fic 55006.201

CITE CARACAS SBTSO I CARROLL ACISMOS:

0e22-9-88

:P0I IMMEDIATE SANTO DOMINGO INTO PRIORITY DIRECTOR, MANIQUA

BADMIAMI.

MNSATEL BEAM MHSPIKE

REPO SANTO DOMINGO 37058 (1ND22258)

S: REQUEST PERMISSION ADVISE

LNERGO

OF REF

DEVELOPMENT TO HAVE HIM ALERT

SECURITY SERVICES.

ANDASBADOR ADVISED.

S: TELEl 888092892821 205-8442369;

EZ. iMPOET.

---

## Page 135

14-00000

d D

S-S-C-RET

Test one 5160905: 22. 945-

LAS

Астюм о

VA. 2202, All

083/1764, 096,

CILISIEG

9894282

e/0f8 38/306 %Aat B5

TORIBLIDARN SEP 78

THAN

MAITED

Fir TENCE

TN 027200

CITE SANTO DOMINGO 1?693.

POI IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR, MANAQUA, CARICÃS: INFO SAN JOSE, MEXIÇO CITY

1 PANAMA CITY, LANNIAMS.

MNINTEL REAM MHSPIKE

iPSI A. MANAQUA 12962. 627103)

B. SANTO DOMINGO 57647(024537)

Led 11 (2.01

CAGE GEN (11)

5:0 (8)

FOR FEINS

C. SANTO DOMINGO 19696(024037)

DO SANTO DOMINGO 37628 SNOT NEEDED MANAGDO DAN JOSES (O16 194)

S': EMMISE-I5 REPORTED MORNING S. SEPTEMBER: MALIT ORLANDO

BOSCH GRANTED VISA BY NICARAQUAN: AUTHORITIES. MA SÄID BÖSCH

MAD ALSO OBTAINED VENEZUELAN VISA IN MANAGUA, ME COULD NOT

CONFIRM THAT FRANK CASTRO MAD ALSO GOTTEN VENEGUELAN VISA

BUT ASSHED THIS YO BE THE GASE.

8, AS NOPED REP D, CASPRO CARRIES U.S, PASSOgRE MOSSCiONS.

SO ACCORDINO EMHI8E-15, LOCAL CURANS CLODE TO ROSAN HAVE

BABIDED NOT 90 PUBLICLY DANOUNCE POLICE ACHIEN IN DRAURPiNG

¿OBEN BECAUSE MHEY WANT AMERSCAND TO THINK HE'S STILL IN

SANTO DOMINOS, "

#: +8681 8810289888, 888074a318: d8, iMpoli.

2511-299292

7 2001-742365

RECORD COPY

---

## Page 136

14-00000

1000N IS

8.81866 ErP9

plachy.

ALMANEL COPY ISSUEDISCOTTED .

Ar.PION UMIT

LP

RF. FILE.

h28

N

ACTION O

0508A1 +119-108

і6

MINA BIT

SECRET

OTHER

THAN

ISSUINO

OFFICI

IS PAOMIBITEN

11650, -

ISTAT PRECEDENCE

Con 2002 Des/os

9103686

'ASEGa, OSGIC,

PAGE 0.

T0R8D11850}

SEP 76

IN 827183

MAÑÀ

12461

SEGRE T 011638Z SEP 76 STAFF

CITE MANAQUA 12461

POI IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR, SAN JOSE, SANTO DOMINGO INFO LAMIAMI.

MEXICO CITY, CARAÇAS,

→ PANAMA CITY.

MININTEL REAM MASPIKE

REFRI A, SANTO DOMINGO 87640 (024037)

Ф/ЛО

B. SANTO DOMINGO 87647 (024537)

3, ON MORNING & SEPTEMBER ERYTHROIDOSS

REPORTED THAT BOSCH AND CASTROL ARB IN MANAGUA.

E-3j

SHiO THEY LEFT PARA 1, REP A FLIQHT AND NERE GIVEN PERMISSION

TO REMAIN IN MANAQUA IN TRANSIT STATUS. THAIR REQUEST BASED

ON THEIR CLAIM THAT THERE NO ROOM ON PLANE FOR THEM. IN

ACCORDANÇE LOCAL PRICEDURES, NENOUS GIT TRANSIT PASSENDERS

MAY REMAIN IN MANAQUA POR UA TO THIRTY DAYDI BUT HAVE TO..

GRAVE THAIR PARSPORTO WITH SAMIONATION, DOSS HAS BOSCH'E

SELLA RICAN PASSPORI AND BHONDE ¡P PE JOS, NAMA IN PARSPORS

8E AB ASPORTED RES AO MUMBOR 8?400790 PAPED 10 PSE 28E MALIO

TO & BERT TO, DOMINICAN SX!P EPAMO 18 DATAD dO AUQUAT IOIO.

ROSS DAIO CASTRO 18 CARAYINO UE PUBBDORP.

1 coma

!.?)

CACT HEN (80)

Nd (a)

ES FLAD

8281-742565

RECORD CODE E ?

201-299292

---

## Page 137

14-00000

1 POODLA

71ra

CABLE SEC DISSEM

BY.

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF. FILE'.

....VR.

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN

Đv

STAFF

Al. 1101M 0

9193696

ELASBA

PAGE 02-82

TORIB116S0Z SEP: 76

WHERE THE!. ARE STAYING IN MANAGUA, WHEN THEY PLAN TO LEAVE

AND THESA DESTINATION, WILL REPORT ADDITIONAL INFÓRMATION

AS RECEIVED.

SO FILEI

IN 827103

MANA

12461

208-299298 AND

281-942715. EZ. IMPDET.

24:10 От

S'*A

146,

115.

125:

1с2G0 P1ай GТр.а0: 2009051 220048 2140979947608025

He Touch he pinte

6369 N0r00n7 75970

58

16 0 0 7 305230073-106

8,89175

17 4

13920

WISS

50 4 3r

2495°

1 74 4r D

---

## Page 138

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

and CRaTeR vancer

18-2

• 0

OMF O

алагожатся

SEE URE STATOR

1882098 накосом

Criti

906701

, e/sn/io, c/ols:

DISSEM ON: 27

1/085/1762,0/oms 2, c/C12

0 от

132

TO :

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIONI/ INTELLIGENCE DIVISION.

DEPT OF STATE//SY/I/PIB, SECRET SERVICE//INTELLIGENCE.DIVISION.M

SECRET- WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INITELLIGENCE SOURCES AND .

METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS --NOT

RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.Y

SUBJECTS

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - COSTA RICA, ORLANDO BOS CH

AVILA, CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST. Y

FIRCI-312/02647-76 84

Do IN REFERENCE TO YOUR MESSAGE DATED IN JULY 19?60

ENTITLED "NATIONAL LIDERATION FRONT OF CUBA", COPY SENT ADDRESSEES.

THIS AGENCY HAS THE FOLLOWING CURRENT INPORMATION ON ORLANDO

BOSCH AVILASY

GLASSILIER CY RECORDED REPORTING OPFICER.

X6DS S460

BATEI

Ohts

UNITE.

022.9-28

ON TO ME

•i 14, 18 81

bird wa 00

[4101")

11041.

SON DY OTHIN TI

201-278292

RECONO COPY

• OFPIER IN PROMIEMO

---

## Page 139

14-00000

TUTO MI-S" TO REGIS

10

OUTGOING MESSAGE

10

OMF

LAMO

SECRET

аванка и

STAFF

сОМА:

БИРО: 52К

CIA

906701

DISSEM BYE

BASED ONE SANTO DOMINGO 17646 lIN 0240371 30 AUGUST 1976

PROJECT: EMPYREX

OBJECTIVE: &

CABLE SEC:: PLS MAKE CES COPIES AVAILABLE TO IPAN FOR 201-2992928

22-9-28

1412023706

i acesarace to state

17:o77E341

C2000 FX2FE

1g001

•Coaches?,

DOGANCA SCUIDREE

Persis:

Kitta

BATTI

UNITE

EATI

SO AUG 76

STTTHOJENTE

CALANCAI

OPSALSN

STILEÇOORES,

SM BY OTHER MAN THE IRAUINO UPEE 1O PRONATED

IMPOET

Pilov, APPET

---

## Page 140

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

какае сеттко илл стат

ося

OMFO

SEARE IN

STAFF

WH!7.29

C :.

3h2238Z

904799

DISEM BrOT

Tos siGnAL CENTER.&

PLUREASE TRANSMIT SANTO DOMINGO 17646. TO SANTIAGO FOR

INFORMATION. EZ-IMPDET.r

orlands 50gl

#COPY ATTACHED

BATE

UNITI

DO AUG 26091

SMITHI

LA CAR/ORM

0F81ET

AAPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE INBUIMO OFPICA IN PROMINITEE.

ERNICAR

HAPDHT

---

## Page 141

14-00000

1's--nine

OUTGOING MESSAGE

-?7=

OMF O

SECRET

STAFF

coms: ДА б.

TOS SANTO DOMINGO-Y

200/00

UNINTEL KMSTONE MHSPIKE Y

REF: SANTO DOMINGO 176465 (IN 07V03P)

1-O REF BEING RELAYED TO STATION SANTIAGO AND SUBSTANCE REF

TO FBI. Y

•Z. FILE: 203-299292: 22-9-280 FEIMPDETe

«CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA DEPORTED TO COSTA RICA.

TRASIL PROGRAI

WALL

INDIAGE FOR TIMIS

Euch i0. 2. 33

D22-9-28

10 AUG ?6

okies.

LAACARIDRH

1497

later

31 Онд 76

701-999292

APSISTO

RECORU. COPY.

REFROZUCTION BY OYHER THAN TMA INGLINE GAPIQS !!

=

CALAICAR

IMPDET

CL BY OLRTA

---

## Page 142

14-00000

Ate to do somen "

CAUTIC:N - THIS FORM REQUIRES

SECURE STORAGE

ORIGINALOR'S RiQUEST FOR MOS PROCESSING

INDEXING REQUESTED.

ПО ІМОЕХІНО

APERTURE CARD REQUESTED

DISPATCH

QUUSSENCALION

SECRET

Chief, Latin America Division

COS, San Jose, COS, Mánagua, COS, Guatemala City

Chief of Station, Santo Domingo

Orlando

BOSCH

to Enter

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENGIS

NARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVER •

REFS:

A. SANTO DOMINGO 17646

B.

SANTO DOMINGO 17643

C.

SANTO DOMINGO 17629

D. SAN

JOSE 19662

Forwarded herewith is a Xerox copy of the Costa Rican.

passport used by Orlando BOSCH to enter the Dominican Republic

in the name cf Carlos Luis PANIAGUA Mendez.

The passport was

obtained and Xeroxed by. EMCLIPPER-1 who provided a copy to the

Station.

EMWISE-15 had previously reported that BOSCH entered the

Dominican Republic with a false Costa Rican passport in the name of

Pedro Antonio PENA.

While BOSCH may. be carrying a second. Costa

it appears that he entered the

Dominican Republic with

The PANIAGUA

passport forwarded herewith shows the following:

The Department of Migration of Costa Rica issued a

March 1976 for travel to "C.A., Republica

Dominicana! (p.13),

BOSCH departed Costa Rica at Pena Blancas on 26 March

(p. li) and entered Nicarague (p. 95.

The Dominican Consulate in Managua issued a one-trip

vide for the Dominican repubile on 30 March (p. 14).

Attachment!

As statod, h/w.

Eributien:

C/ HAD,

w/att

5,14

FERD

RICAN PARATH

COS, San Joso, w/Ret

cOs,

Managua

w/att

CURE MU

(8.81

And Mil. 6 1

CO6,

Guatemals City, w/att

84,0

RECO!O COPY

feet

MAICH OYMEON AND NI

Batt

HDCA•11080

30 August 1076

hit to Hunt

N201-200202

tailins

---

## Page 143

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CISSUCATON

SECRET.

" CAUT.ON-THIS FORM REQUIRES

SECURE STORAGE

HDCA - 11056

• It appears that BOSCH entered Guatemala City by

air on 30 March and departed 31 March (P. 15).

BOSCH arrived in Santo Domingo at Las Americas

airport on 31 March (p. 15).

BOSCH told EMCLIPPER-I that the real PANIAGUA had undertaken

most of the travel shown in the passport, bu: EMCLIPPER-1 did not

establish the date the passport was acquired by BOSCH or how.

• As reported Ref A, BOSCH was deported to Costa Rica via

Managua on 29 August on Iberia Flight 979. ' EMWISE-15 reported that

the PANIAGUA passport was used to deport BOSCH.

CONTIMURO

---

## Page 144

14-00000

CABIE DRI

MASOMUNI GOTIACO_

SOVANCE CORO ISSURO SLOTEO LE

ACTION. UMIT

LAS

FILE

N

ACTION &

NE &

OSC

9186729

E1 A112

14141*

31=

SECTED.

• da 1310

STArT PRECEUENCE

DOO 2 AGCADO. PITEY,

CIY. PS/EGr

COPS P/AND

PAGE DI

TOR 331302Z AUG 76

IN

024037

SDÒM

17.686

SE ER E T JDIZASE AUG 16 STAFF

EU4!

CITE SANTO DOMINGO 17646

TOS IMMEDIATE SAN JOSE, MANAGU a DIRECTOR INFO LAAMIAMI,

0,10

MEXICO CITY, CARACASA

• PANAMA CITY.

MNINTEL REAM MHSPIKE

REFSI A, SANTO DOMINGO 17643. NOT SENT MANAGUA, SAN JOSES CIN 022601,

• 8ª SANTO DOMINGO 17628 NOT SENT MANAGUA, SAN JOSES (IN 016194)

¿, EMNSSE-15 ADVISED STATIO, AT B945 HOURS ON 29 AUGUST THAT

ORLANDO BUSCH HAD BEEN DEPORTED ON IBERIA FLIGHT DIU AT BOOB HOURS.

MITH DESTINATION SAN JOSE VIA M-NAGUA, DECISION TO PUT BOSCH ON

"THIS FLIQHT WAS MADE ON VERY SHIRT NOTICE, BOSCH TRAVELLED ON

SAME COSTA RICAN PASSPORT WITH 'HICH HE ENTERED DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC IN NAME OF CARLOS LUISP ANIA GU A MENDER.

CBMWISE-IS HAD PREVIOUSLY REPOR'ED THAT BOSCH HAD INTERED WITH

COSTA RICAN FASSPORT IN NAME OF PEDRO ANTONIO P ENÀ. THIS

F INPO WAS IN ERRORES

8, ON. 27 AUOUST STATION OST INED COPY OF PANTAQUA PABBPORT

FROM BMOLIPPEROL

THEY ANARE OF DOBEH TRAVEL MITH COST, RIDAN PASSPOST SA NAME BALUE DE

RECORD COPY

201-299292

---

## Page 145

14-00000

WиGwTHT4.0101-Sr

CADIR SeE UNASCO DT_

PRASORUANT NOTUIED

ASYANCE CORT ISSUEDISLOTTED

AETION UAUT

RF.:" FILE ..

ar. Trom o

F

T 186729

ETALà

10191 • 09+4.

SECRET

aeooutot i onemeo

STAFF

VR.

PAGE 82-02

TORA 3B13O2Z AUG 76

IN 82÷037

SDÖM 17646

PANJAGUA•

d. FILEI 221-299292. EZ IMPDET

"ii'""

"iadts: "?

sl6614:

-pe Earie

2221

Eaileres raps: 2e

aklocnaedt

roeedtlint

NaMLor Seo 4-s

CAtCo Si6Ae CrCRCuS

Biobtsas

NFAiMe Cw

eira eusno eel (rce, pross

LBCUR

':".".

.rt4A1

niite."m

43 +

•!?:.

2a na.

Carcceda"

*77%. 4

2261 17013:

Nerwasnait

1423 Pat9nerdnes

peo - 4TE.UU

---

## Page 146

14-00000

see cer. 25-3

_SECRET

MOSA VANT DOINGS.

SEAN COP

FAT

9883148

OFFICE

STAFF

"'OPSITES OSE JOPS CLY OSTEGZA

ELA021

PAGE 01

TORI 272058Z AUG 78

FFN-832957

•-SDOM--SZBAS

BE CRET ZIRBIDZ AUG 76 STAFF

ih--

5==

GITE SANTO DOMINGO 17645

POI DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL REAM MUSPIKE

REFSI A, DIRECTOR 905008

Bo SANTO DOMINGO 17028 (1N 016194)

20 PER PARA & REF BO EMCLIPPERO! HAS PROVIDED STATION WITH

FULL RUN-DOWN ON TRAVEL OF FRANK G A SIR OPAZ 12010742365)

FROM FEBRUARY 1975 THROUGH JULY 1978 AS FOLLOWSI

EXITS FROM SANTO DOMINGOS

8. FEBRUARY 1975

S: APRIL 8975

"83 JUNE: 1975

SE. JUNE 1975

30 JULY 1073

• 87 AUQU8T 1973

20 8O BEPTEMBER 1078

# 0670089 8 073

& NOVEMBNA 1078

•LO PRORUARY 8070

---

## Page 147

14-00000

•CADAÄ SEC G-STEN

PERSON VET BOTAND_

2652425

SECRET

RF. FILE.

ACTIO O

Т103848

E8 1028

09s2*

iP+

An.

28 FEBRUARY 8076

82 APRIL 8070

23 APRIL 2028

20 MAY 1076

10 JUNE 8078

ENTRIES TO SANTO DOMINDOI

A FEBRUARY 1073

88 APRI6 1975

22

JUNE 897}

13

, JULY 1885

& AUGUST 2078

A SEPTEMBER 8973

SEPTEMBGA 3873

OGTOBER 8978

NOVEMBER 8973

PEBRUARY 8976

FEBRUARY 107A

66 APR66 1070

48 KAY 8078

88 МА 1090

PAGE 8Z

TORIRTZOSDE AUD ?0

C4SS3s"

A7205

Fant Hi.

Weren

Maко0 072, : 29519

STATE

-2.

i 5.

IN 822988

SDOM 19083

---

## Page 148

14-00000

anto grand. 10

SECRET

START

-

9803868

88A028

•. т

PAGE ASOAS

- 10908920988 AU0?0

S& 822088

SDOM

8?043

• JULY 8090.

8. ACCORDINO EMPYREX, CASTRO DEPARTED SANTO DOMINGO S AUDUST AND

RETURNED AS AUDUST.

SO REQUEST NOS COMPARE DATES OR CASTRO TRAVEL WITH

KNOWN OR SUSPECTO CUBAN EXILE PERRORiSI AGiS.

A. NO OBJECTION PASS PARAS ONE AND THO PRAVEL DATE TO LNERGO

2810742365,

EZ. IMPDET,

L

---

## Page 149

14-00000

38 . 2:

Don-

LA8.

11610

ClAn DDOZ, 16S/OD0

OPS/IT64, NED, PS/EC2, 554,

0.SG

E88609.4,

does.

TORIZTLGOSE AUG T6

BE C

& 8 2715488 AUG 28 STATE

GITE SANTO DOMINGO 876A3

TOS PRIORITY DIRECTOR INTO LAMIAMI, MEXICO CITYA CARACAS

PANAMA CITY.

8.27

UNINTEL REAM MHSPIKE

REFI

SANTO DOMINGO 27628 (016194)

• d.

MEMORANDUM OF ORLANDO BOSCH CITED PARA 3 REF WAS NOT

QIVEN TO CHIER OF POLICE, GENERAL NIVAR, UNTIL 25 AUGUST

WHEN ME RESUMED HIS POST FOLLOWING EMERGENCY APPENDECTOMY.

NIVAR IMMEDIATELY DAVE

INSTRUCTIONS TO "LOCATE

DOSEN AND THROW HIM OUT."

8, MEMORANDUMS WHICH SHOWN TO LYNER

ON

&6 AUGUST, STATES THAT BOSCH HAD ENTERED COUNTRY MITH. COSTA

RICAN PASSPORT IN NAME PEDRO ANTONIO PENA.

CONFIRMED THAT BOSCH IS CARRYINO ANOTHER COSTA RICAN PASSPORY

IN NAME CARLOS LUIS PAN I A O U A MENDEZ, AS REPORTED

PARA & NEVA.

STATS PEr COMING

SN 828888

SDOM. 87088

SAID HE HAS NOT YRT LOCATED BOSCH. ME. WAS

ASKED TO INPORM STATION WITH AB MUCH LEAD TIME AS POSSIULE

WHEN DODOM DEINO DEPORTEDI AIRLING FLIOHT NUMBER AND NAME

1;:

RECORD COPY

201-299292

---

## Page 150

14-00000

8.1 000

SE:

0. 0. 00

R

+ 8096-390 10000 42 11 00 09 10

•"R4D010D

STAFF

f808576

TIÁ80N

PAGE 02-02

TORI271G85Z AUG TO

TN 822681

SDOM 89883

AND PASSPORT BEING USED. ALTHOUGH

MAS PROMISED DO

THIS, SLIP UP IS POSSIBLES IN ORDER: KEEP TABS ON BOSCH'S FUTURE

WHEREABOUTS, SUGGEST

THAT BOSCH MAY BE

DEPORTED IMMINENTLY, WILE PROBABLY TRAVEL. AT LEAST DURING FiRST

LEO OF TRIP. WITH COSTA RICAN PASSPORT IN NAME PEDRO ANTONIO

---•

• EM A OR CARLOS LUIS PANS AG U A MENDEZ, STATION'S..

QUESS 1S THAT DOMINICAN'S WILL INSIST NE LEAVE HITH PENA

IDENTIFICATION, SINGE THIS IS MOM HE ENTERED COUNTRY: NO

OBJECTION PASS ABOVE INFO TO LNERGO

AS

APPROPRIATE:

4144."

:786E1 291-299292. EZ IMPDET

1!

---

## Page 151

14-00000

Al PACDRBD8 (O 18L-469938

8H8/M010S

3T Rugus 1978

Choost good

Fate,

02e9950

BISCAF

NAIOBANDUX FOR:

Том

SUBULOT

Orlando BOSCH ANILA

Accordiag to

tha coveranant of the dominiora lapubllo has doolded to

doport Orlando BOSCH AVILA AN NOOD NO NOCUrITY OlfICIaLS

can locate kla. BOSCH any be deported uning a Costa plcas

PARADOrE 11 tDO DANO OL POdIO ANtONIO HENA OF CASION LULA

PANLAGUA sendes.

"e suspoot that the loaldican Covorarent

WIII 1AS19E CASE BUSCH depart frOn tha lonIniCan Republio

1n tha DAMa Of PINA gInce thia da hon Do oniorad the coutsty.

Thoro 1s to date no onidence da to uhet country BOycH uall

ba daparted.

---

## Page 152

14-00000

OUTGOING - MESSÄGE

27-3

ORF

SECRET

косо оно

STAFF

com: LAS) 0:

8709328

DIRECTOR

ONe. IPlAN EURy AFY, EAY

FRY-OSIrTEY

PARIS, LONDON•

BASE.

посекі

905008

ease

assen or. 45

=

0181

• BONN• BOUNH

OTTANA.

UNINTEL REAN MMPROSE PRACE Y

20)

REPSS A. DIRECTOR 896657

B. SANTO. DOMINGO 176Z9 IIN OJGJS4I MOT SENT OR NEEDED

ALL ADDEES

SO REF 8 ADVISED THAT PRANK CAST R.O PAZI LIVING IN

SANTO DOMINGO, IS KNOUN TO BE ORLANDO B OS & H'S CONTACT MAN AND

MESSENGER CARRIER TO CUBAN RIGHANETEST GROUPS THROUGHOUT LATIN

AMERICA. IT REQUESTED CONFIRMATION OF INFO ON FRANK D. C A STRO

PEREZ CITED PARA & E REP A. THIS IS TO CLARIFY. THAT THE FRANK

CASTRO INVOLVED WITH PLNE IN TERRORIST ACTIVITIES IS IN FACT EULALIO

FRANCISCO. CAST R O PAZI AKA FRANK CASTRO. OF REP BA AND HOT. THE

PRANK PÒ C AS T.R O PEREZ CITED IN PARA 3 CREP A. Y

MOST OF FOLLOWING IS SENSITIVE FBI SOURCE INFO, FYI ONLY IN

CONNECTION REF BI AND NOT TO BE DISCUSSED OR OTHERWISE DISCLOSED

OUTSIDE BKHERALD WITHOUT PRIOR HAS APPROVAL.

DATEI

UHIS

ET,!

RAFRODUCTION BY OTHEN THAN THE LANUIMO OFFICA ID PROMIBITEO

IMPDaT

CL 8Y. 025231

---

## Page 153

14-00000

_OUTGOING MESSAGE

onf

SECRET

STAFF

сом,:

DIRECTOR

.805008

013SEM888

MeR.

.3. : THE CASTRO CITED PARA 2 REF B IS EULALIO FRANGISCO!

CASTRO PAZ 8203-7423657, BORN 4 JUNE 42. AT MARIANAO, CUBAR AKA

PAPO, E- CASTRO, P. ASTRO, AND FRANK CASTRO: PHOTO AVAILABLE.: •

REPORTEDLY LEFT CUBA POR U.S, CLANDESTINELY BY BOAT, 31 DEE LE ISIC =

BELIEVED BE LiT. RESIDED PHILADELPHIA JAN TO OCT bZ: NEW YORK OCT TO

NOV 6ZI SERVED U.S. ARMY 5 NOV 62 THRU 6 DEC 63 AS LIGHT WEAPONS

INFANTRYMAN. REPORTEDLY WORKED FOR MANUEL AR TIME IN APR 65

RECRUITING PEOPLE IN MIAMI TO FIGHT COMMUNISM IN CENTRAL AMERICA. AS

• OF MAR 74 WAS EMPLOYED AS SALESMAN WITH FABRIC BAZAAR, INC. • MIAMI,.

FLA• MOVED TO DOM REP. EARLY 75. AS OF MAR 75 WAS ESTABLISHING

INTERIOR DECORATOR FIRM CASTEVILLE C. POR A. IN SANTO DOMINGO.

REPORTEDLY WAS TRYING SET UP EXPORT-IMPORT BUSINESS IN DOM HEP AMPR

?5. DURING 8E MARRIED ANA MARGARIETi DE UIND T, DAUGHTER OF

RETIRED REAR ADMIRAL CESAR DE WINDT LAVANDIER OF DOMINICAN NAVY:

CASTRO REPORTEDLY TOLD FBI SOURCE OCT 75 THAT HEAD OF SANTO FOMINGO

POLICE MAD IT IN POR HIM AND GOULD BE REPLACED BY FRIEND GY CASTROS

PATHER-IN-bAl...

CASTRO TRAVELS PREQUENTLY BETWEEN DOM REP AND MIAMI. MAS

DANA

UNITI

MAN NY ATMON

то сожено

THo (841118999889

---

## Page 154

14-00000

OUTGOINT MESSAGE

OMF

SECRET

акаластат

STAFF

COMP:

MPO:

DIRECTOR

905008

DISSEN BYs:

PER

астики то

O ames

DEPORTED FROM DOM REP Y OCT 75 MITH HUMBERTO LOPEZ

JR., 'a

FRENTE DE MINLIBERACION NACIONAL. DE CUBA

EFLNC? LEADER. AND FEDERAL

FUGITIVE ARRESTED BY FBI UPON ARRIVAL FLA... UPON, ARRIVAL MIAMI 4 OCT...

75 CASTRO'S U.S. PASSPORT BORE CACHETS SHOWING DEPARTURE: VENEZUELA

23 SEPT 253 ENTRY "ELDORADO-BOGOTA" COLOMBIA 27 SEPT 75. CASTRO

CLANENHINED HE AND OTHERS PLACED BOMBS AT RUSSIAN EMBASSY AND IN

THEATRE IN BOGOTA. CASTRO IS LICENSED PILOT. PROFICIENT PARACHUTIST

AND SKYDIVER. HAS/IS LEADER OF "GOLDEN FALCONS" SKYDIVING CLUB OF

CUBAN EXILES OPERATING OUT OF HOMESTEAD, FLA. HE BECAME U-S: CITIZEN

§ OCT 73. HAS RECORDS CONTAIN NO INDICATION HE EVER EMPLOYED BY

' BKHERALD. Y

FILES

203-7423658 201-309124. E2. IMPDET.N

LA/COG/COMMENTI SANTO DOMINGO REQUESTED CLARIFICATION OF INPO. ON

PRANK CASTRO CITED IN DIRECTOR AISLE?.

CALAIRO ORS MILARLa

GET AMASSEE MORTISINS S

LA/COGIGIGS

3498

ACA-EAN

San DEs

PRODUCTION BY OTHEN THAN TW

ING UPFICE

.eY.o

MPD&T

181

---

## Page 155

14.0.0000

ees for to

...'

THE DASHINGTON PIST Mrolas: dearer 27, 1074 C23

Jack Anderson and Les Whitten

Plot to Assassinate Kissinger

A reported plot to assassinate Secre

In Miaml's Little Havana He latér re-

Kissinger was safety out of the chun.

tary of State Henry A. Kissinger In

detected to Cuba where he gave a fas

кту.

Costa Rica six months ago was blocked

cinating interview.

Bosch later insisted: "My only crime

„by' US, and Costa Rican authorities

"I have known privately since 1972"

was entering the country with a false

four days before it was to have been

• he said about "the plan to astassinate

passport."

Certainly. 1

war

never

cartled our

the U.S. Secretary. of State."

He said

proged. in court that he hoped to

We have pleced together the story

the plot had taken "certain form" by

knock off Kissliger. He is now at large

from secret testimony before the Sen-

1878 and Lied been "actualised"

by

somewhere in Latin Amertca.

ste Internal Securtty Subcommittee

1974

Johnson's Junkets - Democratic

and from intervtews with Cuban exilen

In a reference to our 1974 columns,

presidential nominee Jirmy Carter

and U.S. Intelligence sources

he added: 'This fact, which, I repeat,

must have Don Johnson mind when he

A Cuban terrortat named Orlando

I've known privately, has been corro

Charges that the Republicans lind

Bosch Avile was reported to be gun.

borated by the U.S, Journalist Jack An.

ning for Kissinger. The attemps on Kis

derson."

cushy johs in the buresucracy for do

feated COP legisiatora:

• angers lie was expected,

areording

Rivero named Bosch as one of the 18

Johnson, a forridi lowa congrem.

•to reports, during ha visi to conta

anti-destro leaders who had consotred

ika in februar.

"do

kill

пад,

American

and other

leader"

was appointed by President

Nixon to head the Vetarans Admints

norty beare itsaingers arriual..

•romoting a Cuban-American detanto..

Suposa mi0 coat lica on a tai

Boach had been convered in 1088 of

tration. But ho wan forced out of office

nt the BBl and the Secr

shelling a Polbsh freighter with a be

when he proved to ba a lackiustor

39 bad been alerted. They traced

loader. So he was shuffled over so the

doze wale it was moored in wlamt

Commorce Department, where he bes.

• movement ana notified cost

He jumped levera parava and lieu la

umorties, bosch was arrested

Veneruela In 1974

oden ensconced as dovuly asslatant

s in al toup days baisre Kirin-

Forida's Dado County Pubite Safery

ascretary for domentio and Intorna.

Blonal businem

Department, bocauso of the huge Cu

to all khunger ar renay

Of aS OVerturEs tO EMpPOVE

with

Cuben Premier Fidel

ts thla reportedly uppe

astrO terrorin band, cuban

watch Bonch incadod.

3 of tho mory la 1914

NEED REN!

san population in Mamt has excellant

Johnson has unad both paste to tran

ties

troughout Laun

America.

lo

al, mostly to lowe, whare ho hes kope

the county's verrortst at

bis political fencos mendod la the hopa

part.

LL

Thomas Lynch Diched

of running for office again.

anmo discertiying some

A iño Cursmarco Dopariment aionia,

Ho

sod the

Jenato subcommittes

ho han apons at loast 87,100 on travel,

abour it in secres costtany.

"We

£8,204 In tha last year. Ha AlwAys goes

Assi cham, daspite une fact that duvara.

NUCFCER," IO lAs

Afted" Chat there wes

mont ragulatione require coach travel

going to be atta

pt on the lito of But

for loderal omploycoa. The entarorts

Lucrated

disd

Khainger l

louds wita Castro.

hine that Kiralnger

camo astop from carina Munro

reiary of blate H

ry Kisainger...

Wo

Ind Sohnaon, however has a roady on.

passod the inform

ton on to the iBl,

cuse fur bis luxury accommodestons

and thes bod als racetred the Intor.

"I'm a haii of a ble man." he toid our

matron,

and

we notiflad tho Reirres

reportar Marlara Tañol.

"I'm A PoOre

Servico,

se they

dave the protective

and waigh 110 pounda." Johnson ales

duty for "no bocrotary of stato.

aald his had bark forcod him so fly in

the oli was linkod to Klusineor'o

tho forward compartment. Draptte his

wotay tiny la conle itre, and Huerh

080°

many ornurtion to ho boma state to

jenna having say piaos for a com

sea in politer

!

---

## Page 156

14-00000

*Miami falled Base

Of Cuban Terrorists

Dallas Prete inderzettonal

Militant pro-

and

antl-Castro

•Cuban groups in the Miami area are

engaged in terrorist activities both in

and' outside the

United States,

af-

cording to closed-door testimony be

i fore & Senate subcommittee released

jesterday.

The testimony came last May be

fare

Judiciary subcommittee on

security chaired by. Sen.

James 0. Eastland, D-Miss. It said

many as 50 different Cuban

of

varlous

shadings

nave

¿ In Miami at any one

mitece that he and Chicago gangster

Sam Giancans were hired by the CLA

to recruit Cubans to kill Castro.

Giancane

was killed by unknown

persons. last year just before he was

restily before the Washington

panel.

I WAS LBARNED yesterdas

lawyer for Rosalll sold the FBi in'

1967 that the underworld figure, ra

cruited by the ClA to kill Castro, bo

lieved agonts of the Cuban leader

were involved la slaying Preaidant

Kennedy,

nany of them engaged in vio

ou Involving loca

actions and

In

Mexico,

Central

¿outa America and Cuba itsell.

and

nomas Lyons, who sas been

Bita tao Dade

ounty, Fla..

Public

an Intervlow with Edward P.

cluded In last June's Sonato Intelit

gence Commilles repore on the role.

Saloty

Department

or mort

Bino

than

and Raul J. Dias of the

Itment's organized

crime; ten

arist

and security unir, told of ef.

Interviamse..

10rt

down

terrorist

anata la le greator Miami aras.

ele

tho

that

Rosell!

LUNS SAID MOST Ciliana la the

hard working and industrt.

individualg "use Dado

as a base for Internalional

of Cube,

allied

Cuban. shipping,

Elcipote

project alm

150. He sak

of Individui

the United

ABBRSBIRAHI

aetro employad "toama

for

miniate, purported Communinta

dividuals who lake a srand

надіт хогтогівио куро.

ng to last two years, Lyons

have boon four homlelden

Egyptian Plane

strong indleetere en each that

Mare political in Mg..

le by design

hijacked, Other

some Castro groupe have.

xile

organisationa.

and

piano ta soonesinate Loun

Arabs Blamed

Jiplomas

and foralen

said bla unit roceived infor

contidontial

sourge

2223

Ballavad lo be.

lIfe of Bocreapry

y Malt io Cona Rice.

Klesinger during hia

Calto 2' Lue

nay tros

miles

• the

HOUL

Wit ANd Beared Sepylee

soillied,

bald,

Widely.

legally entoring

here Mero no Insidents

Vel.

Cuban onilos In Plorida

Ceatro,

o, tho body of unda

ohn Royall mag foun

chain-wolghied. do.gal

O8WAg

esy

OsaP.

centlliod lans year

n0t0

Byplan airline

ald dis planes

I DIANO:

Buelna 122

landed in Luxur, end the

so blow l0 up

uniesa ivai man provided,

becurily

surrounded the;

plano, lo spokesman said.

te reparind there wore 88 pass

oreM

membere aboard.

wore inreista

MurIOle mA thair way tO LuNor tO 8

no ancient Templos of Karnai an

the Vallay ol tha Kingo,

Due their ado,

Jonalues wore nota

•THE WASHINGTON STAR!

2 AUGUST 1976

---

## Page 157

14-00000

7-91 MF0 3078

NER-

SECRET

I'LA ON TINIT NIIIUND

ISTAFF

TIGN

1:649989

!!!

FILE

VR

Ches, NeE

S54

CLY eSterGa 0590

166233

PAGE O1

T0R8 202134Z AUG 76

IN DE194

SDOM

17629

SECRET 2021882 AUG 76 STAFF

ЗР

CITE SANTO DOMINGO 17629

TOS. DIRECTOR INF LAMIAMI, MEXIÇO CITY, CARACAS.

PANAMA CITY.

MNINTEL REAM MHSPIKE

REFI

A, DIRECTOR 896637

DOC. MICRO. SER.

DEC 1 7 1976

MICHUriLinGO

E. DIRECTOR 899232

12RTAL PROSRAN

RISINGT

PERRA TON TE

ET V:38. C0.4

ad:)

My ass

Wait.

do EMCLIPPER-L MAS ADVISED STATION THAT ORGANDO B OS CLA

CALLED ON HIM A FEW WEEKS AGO TO REQUEST THAT DOMINCAN

DQVERNMENT ISSUE VISAS TO HIS MOTHER. AND SISTER TO VISIT MIM

IN SANTO DOMINGO, (VISAS HERE SUBSESHENTLY ISSUED BY CONSULATE

IN MARMIS ON. THIS OCCASION EMGLIDPEROL ASKED BOSCH IF ME HAD

ANTERED DOMINICAN REPUBLIE WIPH FALSE DOMINICAN FASSFERT. DENTING

THIO, DOSEH GRANDISHED COSTA RIGAN PASSPORT WITH EMELIPPERS.

ABKAD TO BER. PASSPORT IS IN NAME OF CARLOS LUIS PAN YA A UA

MENDER AND PHOTO 18 DOOD LIKENESS OF BOSCH, BOSCH SAID ME NAN

MID AYR OPERATION FOR CATARACTS AND MQUIO DE CRAVINO

•DOMINICAN REFUGLIE SHORTLY.

8. STATION HAS RACEIVED RAPORT PROM INDEX LITTEN 8 2OlLG?6

NEL: 182113

IMPYREX-A IN MAIMIS STATEINO THAT PRANK O A ST R. O. DAdO.

+1 201-742-365°

20/ 299292

RECORD COPY

---

## Page 158

14-00000

8.91 M7Õ. 8179

CABIF. STC 115.98 M 80V.

..... PrA.

PANSENISUNIS NUPANU.

ADVANCE COPY

10445009001150-

AL:THIN (INIT

HE . FIlt..

__TOTAL COPIFS.

SECRE!

NEPRODUCTION

ISSUING

STAFF

MPOMIDITEO

VR

166238

ESA163

PAGE 02

TORI 202131Z AUG 76

IN

816198

SDiM 17628

WHO IS MARRIED TO DAUGHTER OF RETIRED DOMINICAN ADMIRAL AND

LIVING IN SANTO DOMINGO, ISEE PARA 1C REF AS IS KNOWN TO BE

BOSCH'S CONTACT MAN AND MESSENGER CARRIER TO CUBAN RIGHTEST.

GROUPS THROUGHOUT LATIN AMERICA, STATION BELIEVES THIS: MAY

WELL BE TRUE. CASTRO, NHO CARRIES AMERICAN PASSPORT B-28979÷7.

DEPARTED AND RETURNED SANTO DOMINGO THREE TIMES DURING MAY AND

JUNE ALONE. EMPYREX REPORTS HIS MOST RECENT RETURN ON 15 AUGUST.

EMGLSPPER-1 WILL ATTEMPT DETAIL ALL OF FRANK CASTRO!S TRAVEL

DURING PAST SEVERAL MONTHS, HE IS ALSO THINKING OF LIFTING

CASTRO'S FASSPORT NEXT TIME ME ENTERS SANTO DOMINGO AIRPORT

IN APPORT PIN DOWN TRAVEL DESTINATIONS, HE NOTE THAT REF AS

PARA & E LISTS CASTRO'S MATRONIMIC AS PERER RATHER THAN

BURRECTLY AO PAR,

ALdO, EMPYREX REPORTS THAT U. B. PASSPORT

80080878698 WHICH ME UBINO AT LAST FOR TRAVEL BETWEEN

*DOMANCAN REPUBLIC AND PUERTO RICO, LISTS HIS DIRTH DATE AS

A JUNA LINA RATHOR: THAN I OSPIENGER 1919 NO RAPORTED RES A

PARA ! 0.

. PLUAB& CONFIRM 201 NUMONA POR GASTRO IN RES A 18

ADOURATE,

8,

ON SO AUQUET SAWISE-LS SHOWED TO AMCANNESS COPY OP

15072

---

## Page 159

14-00000

•FORM 30700

8-91470. 3178

TOTAL COPES i

SECRET

-BUM BY

THER THAI

2500 CHOSE PROMOTE

MASUN/UNIT NOTIFITO_

AT: TION MINIT

"ARTION "

т 188233

STAFF

FiF . FILE.

VR

ETA163

PAGE 03-03

T0R8202134Z AUG 76

OUT OF COUNTRY, MEMO STATES THAT INFO HAS BEEN RECEIVED BY

POLICE FROM RELIABLE SOURCES THAT DURING HIS STAY IN DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC BOSCH HAS MET WITH CUBAN EXILE LEADERS FROM. PUERTO

RICO, MIAMI, NEW YORK, CARACAS, MEXICO CITY AND "POSSIBLY

PANAMA",

INDEX BOSCH, CASTRO, FILES +010299282- 201-380124

1?. ОМРОБТ.

IN 016194

SDOM 17629

---

