(104-10786-10192) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

AGENCY

i. i CENTRAL INT

Unica States within the meaning of the Eizio wesw Lane, Tie
ie acy manos? to an Uoautuorised person te proliiited by law

‘Fou misterat coctatos tnicnmation afoctiag the National Diiecue «=
HOUSE. Seca 7s) and 74 he (rasemuakicn of revelation of wi

<ountay Cuba xs?0aT NO. CSCI-316/00242-64
ssusct Jose LAIX Martin Gonzalez f DATE DISTR. 27 July 1964
. . NO. PAGES 2
REFERENCES .

FIELD REPORT NO.
STON, SOURCE GEAD.NGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTINT 13 TENTATIVE,

source: A former-Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964,

$ Headguarters Comments
: 1, The following report is one of 2 series containing personality pRETUR sete oi
information provided by the source and includes supplemental Do Not Reprod nly

information from the records oi this Agency.

2 Itis requested that the addressees take no action on any of the
individuals mentioned in the pessonality reports without first
checking with this Agency.

Jose LAIN Martin Gonzalez, pseudonym "Jorge," is an officér
of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI - General Directorate
of Intelligence) stationed in Merida, Mexico, as the Cuban Consul. 4) “> 3

Headquarters Comments A

1, Ina report dated 16 April 1964 it was stated that Violeta
PEREZ Aceval, a Cuban wife of a Mexican businessman,
Armia GONZALEZ Beytia, is a good friend of Mireya COUSO,
the of Jose LAIN Martin Gonzalez, the Cuban Vice Consul
in Merida, Mexico. Mireya told Violeta that she and LAIN
were Socialists, not Communists. Vhen Violeta remarked
that this was the first step to Communism, Mireya replied that
there is good money in it, but we are not Communists.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

rome

Tae Toa Tazar, NAY Tan NSA VEX Tose 1 FBI 2

i
SITY. TSOEA


{
t

Gay

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DIS

fizmed report dated 15 May 1964 stated that Jose LAIN Martin
ez, Cuban Vice Consul in Merica, Mexico, has been transferred |
frou Merida, According to the local p. ess LAIN leit Merida

tar Mexico City on 17 May 1964,

A 2G May 1964 report stated that Jose LAIN Martir Gonzalez

saat family arrived in Mexico City on 17 May 1804 and left

for abana on to May 1964. According to 2 suurce of this Agency
who is algesident Se he who has reported reliable information 24

ior about three yeargy, the Cuban Embassy instructed one Mariano
GARCIA to cancel LAIN's lease and were forwarding money for

his bills since LAIN had not received his saiary, ‘This information
inaicates t...t the travel was sudden and possibly unexpected,

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DIs: EM
