# 104-10169-10252

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10169-10252

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce

ROLANDO CUBELA (OR CUBELAS) SECAUES

No one wats. the

e never been cald colk."

Nickoamod "Cockoy" (El BÍzco), CUBELA 1e a medical ductor mio playod a left

prominent role in the diet agalnst BATISTA. Al present CUBELA is 33 years 2ye lidl

ald, When bo was 82, CUBE LiA participatod is tha assassisalion o ll. Col

BLANCO RIco, the Chlos ol lha Batiota Military Intelligenco Servico. Ibes

¡and bator CUBELA Vas One ol the mai: Influential student leaders and lod: tho

proup ol tha Ratolitionary Studant Directorato ubich fought la the sterra del

Lacambray agalnal lia Batiste torcas. He was politically ambitlous but lo

the post-Balleta days was outmancouvrod by Fydel CASTRO 80 THAT, as Fidal'a

star ascendad, Cubele's declinea It mouli appear probablo liat CUBELA'A

Istarest in elminatine CASTRO same la part ITOm a parsoval grudge and la

part from polllical ambition but not from ideological principlas.. He does not

appear to bato been a communiet. at any ilma but ho detended communiats aad

participatad in communist sponsored conferences. He participatod 1a antl....

D. A actirilios. For exampled, ba wei one ol thone who turned the cloaing

ol le estepapas Diarlo de la Martne lato an astl-American demonstration;

he soutbod ants-America alogans la prees conferences bold in connection

Wilh a cemmunist dominated student confarence in Uruguay! In June 1960;

bai desounced tba Amertcan Embassy in the Cuban press in October 1980;

ba stabeeribod to anti-Amorican resolitions al a comuunia-lod confarenco

En Mexico 13 diay. 1991: Tluro have seen sumorous reports indicaling that

¡CUBELA has engaged in boriosexuel activities. He appea, st least, to

bara formed part al a desolute group which included porterts of both rexes

and which usad drugs as vell as alcohol in lla froquent partying. His present

eapabilles and attirudos are a mattor ol conjocturo. Costalady his Iníluenco

bas waned and he la rooking opportuniles to roastrbllah ll. He seems to have

for scruplos and wall might engage in anolber assansination i1 it would

advance bla intoross but ho well might reak an accomation mith CASTRO

(1l ho has not already doas du) and botruy any Americina who becamo sivalved

-03

0.3, 08

TEPFIND le a succesalul Sa your old jewologi shrend and nell-odwarod.

He had provided fanda to groups engagel in the struggle scalpet BATISTA

sina knots a number ol thisa tbo playad importass rules ln the sturgio.

to van and to a chorn triend, of CUBSTA

JORGE CARLOS ROARINO MARIIQUES, "IL MAOO"

BOBRIHO la a.30 yeir old lanyar uho partlelpatas in studart revolullneasy

ACtINItOs AgAIns BAMATA. Attor iba Collapse & BATISTA, RODREÑO

partiospacod in the triale 0l antl-Csetroitos and basdad the liring aquada

- Volch araculed numerous reapia. He the ison a drunkard and brawlar lor

goars, often bas bad dias culllus with the pulled, lies been a wile beiler, iid

44gт0

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ance atot au Amaricas in Habana sa the result of a querrel Al presort bo

la involved with Sonda PERLA Gil, a woll knOuTi Cuban show girl, by ubom

he has one ¡llo gumara child. (He May suBCOEs! ln Larias ber Joln tilm in

Spaln.) Ho la in claze touch Mila Cuban emuassios la both iladrid and Parlo

and raparted to both if tbem conceralny lie mooling in Paris Mill ADiNIP-),

an ans-Castro Cuban, ROBRENO brawled with the Spanial Polico who

ordered bim to legro spaln and (according to a illa summary) permitiod blm

80 stay berruse ba agread to vort lor them.

ALBERTO BLANCO ROMARIZ

BLANCO, commoaly called "Crazy" (El Loco), sow 98 geare old, allegedly

was Elves & medical dacharge irom to Unitad Stain Als Forco in Ociabor

1050 and was dirarced in Aland, Elsrida la 1968, altar 8 3 yoar asparation,

trom Masy Larlds al Bostor, Mazzsichusetts, Ho claimed to haro takes

part in anti-batista activity and lator to bare participated in biay 1950 loa

Cuban Lavasion o! NIcaraguz, rasulting in his capture, bla La:prisOnmenE

In Managus, Nicaragua for 8 monthe and Me subcoquent imprisonment la...

Cuba ¿rom Juac to september 1960 (because Fidal CASTRO had not approved

parucipation in the lavalos ol NIcaragua). He want to spain as a rofugeo

Lis September 1981 at which time Claimed ibat bo was sent an a penetration

agas by tie Cubao inionisanco Serrica, A nunmary ropori la the leadquarters

Illa Indicatos that as LCFLUTTER examination about Soptember 198% did not

reroal major docoption (We are ¿rylog to locato the precise quealions used.)

Ha Cuban 18 controt ln tirard la Luis MAmal CANTILIO TOIAC, 288igod

to kas Cuban E rebessy.

TENTATIVE, PRELIMINARI ANALYAS

Those la so conviaclag evidence that the group is working asther for or

agains; the TOLIna d FIdel CASTRO. Ruports on lialI cantects with ua

and thet discuesions aming thamsalves ase at varlance. In L9e3 Fldal

CASTRA, reportedly kaowing that thay were plottar agalnot bim, talked is

CUBELA and seven Lombary ol bis EsCup to tallat lhalr support agalset

AMbel ESCALANTE Dallande and the ranimusleis in duia Fuccial, tboy are

playing both pods against lon micdo. TDay COrtALaly baTo DOAn ADd ATO La

contact Mis the too sado.

0e/w9/003-

УОД

---

