‘104-10166-10166|
‘ 3 . | {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE a JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Ld Ce
ae are
b-Pa-al
10 ceeoter 1975
WOORAM TOR: CIA Beviev croup en
{}
qeageR ft Spectal Asafatent to the FM iC .
SUESECT 2 kevfew of "9 Relaticnchion sith_Tee Arerseon
nd Tadivantals

Vorld Airvaya, Ite Culetdsarsus

that cha ECD records

J. Attached fa a reyert to ne ecortlizing
ty review

~ on Pan duariena Verld Akreaze CUA) dove Leen searched
Qf the pooctble Categary LK itera 42 23 follouet é
: , Fe! f
Reitioned are probably
of Dsllas vio, T
@ acquainted with

a Itea dun. - The tnatvtdunle’

: Yee and dirs, George 2+

Teliava, ate tie oaly

There vould La no
depropricty ia Air Force paseing ct otherwise :
rcevarding a TAA enpleyos for bis ascintance, & .
‘common Air Torco practicc. 7

Ttew bar. - Based on fr. Affiuito and Miss Schrodt's
corment, I ‘directed thot another search ehould be made oa
‘hecenes th marorandys surcests that TCD mfieht be
able to tse ita influence with trevican €{zna, tneluding
PAA, to rala “obutote erin to the US a success. There
4p no dadication anywhere ia our cace corrospandence,
Dowaver, that Identity 27, 4n Africa Division officer.
vietted EC3'n New York Field Office on this mitter or that
the subject vas aver dixevsned further than 4a this sfogle
phoca of correspondance. :

Iter Ah, = The counent is sisphely incorrect ia

thee GXRO G35 equrents, that CIA watersal on the
Soviat SST ba tiven Se(838) ‘BCD Kew York Ficld Offices
4

SE GR oT 2 TeTDET CL Ht 010650

Clesreeiete

eae

“


) ay

Ite Sutaidierics end Individuals

Foraocanl telicve that sews inforration ras provided.
Re Joizt section resulted to sy kamlotee in resard to
Ageacy sepport uf (Pos tenting ot fie TEL)

2. After Misc Scbroge oud Hr. Lffintte
end efpned trie certificettion (attacted) 3 fetredt lecoted }
tuo addstdonal seems, MER A334 ard FA 6OGS4 (attached), vidtet
indicate that @ requese vas rade by ast )offictal end: reszonded

cpleted ehete scrvay

to by Crfet, 229 ta x 2 ta the cantenpleted Foutkeast Asia

eperations by Cortinentel Airlines, a pocetdic (TA )coupecitor.
e- 2

3. You will note an incossistency in t*
macariol on lik. iit. AFFintto aud nye eaniticed the
Anforeation cisy selected and hava uzod true asses fa thelr covmunte
tone, Im tne interest of speed; I have not corrected thie
inconsistency.

ire ef cur

7” aE — .

a fevexson 2, KORTOS
joxertic Collection Division

