# 104-10124-10196

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10 124-10196

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO:

ROOM NO.

BUILDIN

Sarsity

3E47

REMAI

Repat from DED

provided by for Merala

which we

discusse

FROM:

-BUILDING

ROOM NO.

3 B 0001|

TEM NS: 241

REPLACES FORM 36-

VHICH MAY BE USED.

EXTENSION

1956

(11)

---

## Page 2

4-00000

CENTRA

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

De Not Reproduce

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Danamas

Planning of Coup Against the

Government of the Dahamas

REPORT NO.

00-465) 32225415-74

DATE 11 Septerber 7974

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

Case 61401

DOMESTIC COLLEGTION DINISION

OPERATIONAL INFORMATION REPORT

his repor. is beneved to contain information of operational interest and may not be disclosed to personnel outside

the Directorate a! Operations without the

permission of the Domestic Collection Division

SOURCE

U.S. citizen, convicted arms dealer who maintains close ties

to known undervorld figures.

1.

com (Robinson), & black bahamian to restres in Massau, banamas:

recently nas made foreign enquiries into the possibility of hiring

armed mercenaries to be used in an attempt to overthrow the

Government of Prine inister Laidor 0. (Pinaling). Luring

a meeting with non-valarians, who have clogs ties with foreign

arms dealers, that took place outside of tue bahamas Robinson

stated that he represents elcrents of the day Street merchants

of lassar, and that funds are availabie for action against the

Bahamian Government.

According to Robinson, his group is looking

for foreign assistance in the planning, equipping, and execution ot

a coup against the Government.

He said that there are many balainians

who are in syapathy with his planned course of actions and that

after full details ara worked out and the raquired funds are set

aside, he will convene another neeting with the foreigners in order

to finalize the appropriate arrangements..

---

## Page 3

14-00000

DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION

OPERATIONAL INFORMATION REPORT

This report is believed to contain information of operational interest and may not be disclosed to personnel outside

the Directorate of Operations

without the prior permission of the Domestic Collection Division.

SOURCE

U.S. citizen, convicted arms dealer who maintains close ties

to known underorld figures.

1.

Com (Robinson), a black Bahamian uno resides in Massall, banamas.

recently has made foreign enquiries into the possibility of hirin

armed mercenaries to be used in an attempt to overthro: the

Government of Prime Minister Litidor D. (Pindling). During

a meeting with non-banantians, who have close ties with foreign

arms dealers, that took place outside of the Bahamas Robinson

stated that he represents elments of the way Street marchants

of Massau, and that tunds are availabie for action against tie

Bahamian Government.

Accordina to Robinson, his group is looking

for foreign assistance in the planning, equipping, and execution oT

a coup against the Government.

¡e said that there are many Bahamians

who are in sympathy with his planned course of action, and tiat

afier full details ara worked out and the required funds are set

aside, he will convene another meeting with the foreigners in order

to finalize the appropriate arrangements.

-end-

5

4

3

2

1

E-2 IMPDET CL BY 010650

CLASSIFICATION

COXFIDEITIAL

Classified by: C07622

Exemot fiom zenera! Ioclassifical:0n sched.

sle of E. O. 11652, esemation category

58(2). Impoisible lo determine dale ol

cartrestliratiom

---

