‘04-10336-10003) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992}

Ch TROY

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW + 2nd Floor » Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

a RELEASE IN FULL
Mr. John Pereira 2000

Chief a

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board’s Requests for
ditional Information and

Dear John:

Tam writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious
concern about the status of CIA’s responses to the Review Board’s requests for
additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to
several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of
requests have not been answered — including some that were made more than two
years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be
forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now
extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct
a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the
highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request
that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests
be answered by April.1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal
requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for
information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the
following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

"As identified more fully below, the issues are: CIA-1 Organizational Material,
CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03
HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CLA-IR-07 Claude
Barnes Capehart, CIA-IR-15 Electronic “take” from Mexico City, CLA-IR-21 DRE
Monthly Operational Reports, CIA-IR-22 “A” Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

Boano Memeers: John A. Tunheim, Chair + Henry F. Graff - Kermit . Hall + William L. Joyce > Anna K. Nelson



13-00000

eae euae i 8 Occ IF

Mr. John Pereira

December 18, 1997

Page 6

Informal Requests

Each of the following informal requests was previously made to CIA. For future

reference, they will be referred to by the “Informal Request” (IR) number provided

below.

CIA-IR-01 Personnel Assigned to Post from 1959-64 (see RIF 104-10065-10199).
This request is complete. :

CIA-IR-02 Location of Cable Identified in JFK 1993.07.20.10.18:29:650630.
This request is complete.

“*CIA-IR-03 Full Computer Search for List of Documents in HTLINGUAL File.
CIA agreed to undertake a computer run for all HTLINGUAL documents in
April 1997. To date, no response has been received by ARRB. All computer

searches for these documents should be documented in a formal letter for the
record.

“*CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angletonss#Files.

The Review Board seeks to ensure that it has taken all reasonable steps to
account for any files that James Jesus Angleton possessed or controlled that
related to the assassination and to Lee Harvey Oswald. Because of the perceived
controversy surrounding the disposition of Angleton’s files, the Review Board
believes it prudent to obtain a clear understanding of the types of files that he
maintained and their ultimate disposition. (The Review Boatd does not seek to
explore any subjects in Angleton’s files beyond those that may have pertained to
the assassination.) To date, CIA has made available certain documents provided
by the CIC and the case files for Mangold v. CIA. The Review Board requests any
additional information in the possession of CIA that would explain the
disposition of Angleton’s files.

In addition, the ARRB staff's review of the Mangold v. CIA files designated
additional documents from those files as assassination records. These documents
are: Tab D, documents Nos. 95, 109-116, 120, and 121; and from the Denied



Mr. John Pereira
December 18, 1997
Page 7

Documents file: documents Nos. 496, 498, 499, 500, and 510. The Review Board

is awaiting confirmation that these documents are at HRG for processing.
CIA-IR-05 Possible Foreign Source for Records on Oswald.

CIA was informally requested to use its contacts to pursue certain records
related to Oswald that were orally described to CIA. The Review Board
understands that the CIA has taken steps to pursue these records.

** CIA-IR-06 QKENCHANT.

The Review Board seeks information tegarding the purpose of QOKENCHANT
and its connection with Clay Shaw, Howard Hunt, and Monroe Sullivan.

The Review Board was initially provided some information in regard to this
request that now appears to be incorrect. CIA is now seeking additional
‘information to correct or to clarify its previous answers. The Review Board seeks
an immediate, full, and accurate formal response to this request. Once the formal
statement is provided, this request will be complete.

-*CIA-IR-07 Claude Bames Capehart.
= The ARRB staff has reviewed all records that CIA has been bata to locate to date.
During the course of this review, S
MpieEd to pursue? CIA also &Bh
‘Whether there may be additionabrett

& XCIA-IR-08 Unredacted Copy of the “Family Jewels” Memoranda.

ARRB has reviewed a redacted version of the “Family Jewels.” Additional
questions have been raised. At meeting between HRG, ARRB and the DCI/IRO
on December 11, 1997, specific redacted pages were identified for ARRB staff
review. These pages should be made available as soon as possible.



1 3-00000
B trary
-_——__

: CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
‘ : {LEASE IN FULL
2000
ALso BY Tom MANGOLD
The Tunnels of Cu-Chi

ee _ICOLD
WARRIO}

JAMES JESUS ANGLETON:
THE CIA’S
MASTER SPY HUNTER

Tom Mangold

SIMON & SCHUSTER
New York London Toronto
Sydney Tokyo Singapore


13-00000

nN

326 | COLD WARRIOR

Golitsyn.”’ Rocca replied that he knew very little about the defector or
his handling.

Perplexed, Kalaris countered, ‘‘Ray, you're the deputy in here. Jim
stressed Golitsyn’s importance to me yesterday.’’

Still no briefing. Kalaris concluded this was turning into a waste of
valuable coffee-drinking time.

“What can you tell me about, Ray?’’ he asked patiently.

“I can tell you all about The Trust,’’ Rocca replied brightly.

“But that all happened a half century ago,’’ wailed Kalaris in de- |

spair. ‘‘I want to know what’s happening now!"’
Rocca continually referred Kalaris to Angleton after each successive

question. Finally, Kalaris acknowledged defeat and went for his cof- :

fee.

an up-to-date situation report: current cases, operations, personnel
problems, budgets, and so on. To his alarm, Angleton instead began to
talk again at length about Golitsyn and his brilliant analysis of the
international Communist threat. A great sense of déjd@ vu descended on
Kalaris. Angleton next launched a ferocious attack on Colby, bitterly
complaining how Colby had destroyed the CIA’s counterintelligence
capability, and how he had taken the Israeli Account away.

Angleton also specifically complained that the Counterintelligence
Staff had lost the right to vet DDO assets—the new sources being
developed by the case officers in the field. As a former senior official
in the clandestine service, Kalaris knew the answer to that one. The
vetting process had become so inefficient under Angleton that it was
taking up to six months to clear an operation. CIA officers trying to
develop assets were seeing them slip from their grasp during the in-
terminable wait for head office approval. Colby had turned over the
vetting process to the CIA’s Foreign Intelligence Staff, which had
quickly revived it.

At midday, Angleton took Kalaris to one of his celebrated liaison
lunches at La Nigoise in Georgetown. The waiters bowed and scraped
on cue as Angleton entered the restaurant. The two men were ushered
to Angleton’s usual table, where a senior British liaison officer was
already waiting. Angleton tossed down four huge martinis as he and
his foreign guest, to the deliberate and humiliating exclusion of
Kalaris, proceeded to talk in codé about several active cases of which
the new chief as yet knew nothing. .

On their return to Langley, a stack of cables awaited Angleton i in his
office (now officially Kalaris’s office, though he had temporarily taken

When Angleton eventually arrived for work, Kalaris asked him for

a smaller adjacent room as he waited politely for. Angleton to leave). :
Had Jim read any of these cables, Kalaris asked. ‘‘No,’’ answered :

BACKWARDS INTHE MIRROR | 7

Angleton bluntly, ‘‘Well, I guess I better start reading them,” said
Kalaris heavily. He turned to Angleton’s (now his) secretary (the loyal
Bertha Dasenburg had retired several years earlier) and instructed her
to ensure that all future cable traffic come to him first. The secretary
looked at Angleton and winced. Kalaris made a mental note to dis-
pense with her services as soon as possible.

' As Kalaris went on to assemble his own deputies and they began to
consolidate their arrival, the time for game playing with the ancien
régime finally came to an end. Kalaris was becoming increasingly
anxious to find out what had actually been going on inside the staff.

First, his new team attacked the Fort Knox array of safes and vaults.
Expeditionary forces led by intrepid junior officers found entire sets of
vaults and sealed rooms scattered all around the second and third floors
of CIA headquarters.

Even before these safes were opened, one team (literally searching
on its hands and knees) had discovered a packet of some forty-five
letters which had slipped behind a safe and lain there unopened for five
years. This political time bomb was placed unceremoniously on
Kalaris’s desk. Gingerly, he poked the pile and established that this
mail was an infinitesimal part from the take of HT-LINGUAL, which had

simply gotten lost inside Angleton’s domain. These letters had been -

sent by Soviet citizens and Americans visiting the USSR to people in
the United States. All of the addressees were friends or relatives, rather
than spies and traitors.

Kalaris contemplated the pile with anguish. He knew full well that
it was a federal offense for him even to have the letters in his posses-
sion, let alone open them or, God forbid, destroy them. The pile ticked

‘menacingly in his in-tray for several days as he devised a plan for what

to do, This was the post-Watergate reform era. He and the CIA needed
another scandal like rowboats need hurricanes.°

Kalaris eventually untied the Gordian knot by using a series of
untraceable cut-outs to have the letters dumped on an earnest young
Capitol Hill staffer who was preparing evidence for congressional hear-
ings on Operations CHAOS and HT-LINGUAL. The CIA's involvement
was suitably obscured. (The letters were eventually forwarded to the
addressees with an apology, although there was no clue provided for
the puzzled recipients as to why the U.S. mail had taken five full years
to deliver them.)

As the Kalaris commandos pressed forward, they ‘came across safes
which had not been opened for ten years. No one on Angleton’s
remaining staff knew what was in them. Worse, no one had the com-
binations anymore. In one case, Kalaris was forced to call in the CIA’s
Office of Security, which sent over a crack team of safebusters to drill



13-00000

~ 328 | COLD WARRIOR

open the door. The entire safe-checking operation took several weeks
to complete, since there were more than forty safes involved, each
weighing about 1,000 pounds. The final stages of each opening were
accompanied by a breathless hush, as a trained counterinteligence
officer withdrew the contents.

The audience cheered when, inside ‘one stubborn safe, they’ ex-
tracted a primitive African bow and arrow (it had come from South
Africa). In others they found tapes, photographs, and ‘‘bizarre things
of which I shall never ever speak’"—as Kalaris later muttered myste-
Tiously to his team,

There was one enormous safe—everyone called it the ‘‘Grandpa”’
safe—which was located in a storage room down the hall from the
main Counterintelligence Staff ‘offices. The troops reckoned that this
huge contraption with five file drawers inside had come from Angle-
ton’s own office. When an Office of Security safecracker finally opened
it, they found it crammed with Angleton’s own most super-sensitive
files, memoranda, notes, and letters. Among these papers were files
from the Sir Roger Hollis and Graham Mitchell investigations. There
were also files on journalists, including a number of reporters who had
worked in Moscow.

To the surprise of the new team, they discovered that Angleton had
not entered’ any of the official documents from these safes into the
CIA's central filing system. Nothing had been filed, recorded, or sent
to the secretariat. It would take a team of highly trained specialists
another three full years | just to sort, classify, file, and log the material
into the CIA system.°

Angleton left behind three main vaults on which the Kalaris team
focused their attention.. Firstly, there was his own front office vault,
which contained executive. office materials; files produced by Angle-
ton, his secretary, or Rocca; and anything Angleton needed for further
reference. Secondly, there was a vault holding the HT-LINGUAL files,

. containing boxes filled with copies of letters intercepted from the mail-

opening program. Thirdly, and most importantly, there was the sub-
stantive vault of counterintelligence records, which contained some
forty thousand files stored in endless racks of brown envelopes. In all,
there were ten racks with double rows, each rack standing 8 feet high
and some 40 feet long. As far as the new team could determine, a large
number of these files were not at all relevant to proper counterintelli-
gence functions and had no real value. They contained data on for-
eigners, dead individuals (for historical purposes), former KGB and
GRU officers, and U.S. politicians and legislative aides who had been
in contact with Soviet bloc assets or the KGB.”

The files had been deliberately segregated for the private use of the

BACK WARIS LIN teen men pee

Counterintelligence Staff, thus placing one of the most sensitive and
delicate functions of the CIA beyond executive control. As these
records were restricted to the second floor only, they were kept orga-
nized and guarded by a staff officer posted at the vault every day.
Access to the files was recorded in a logbook. Although the rest of the
Directorate of Operations had been undertaking a crash program since
1972 to computerize its archives, none of this counterintelligence data
had been entered because Angleton did not believe in the technology,
nor was he going to share information through terminals blinking his

__ secrets throughout the building.

In other words, Angleton had been quietly building an alternative
CIA, subscribing only to his rules, beyond peer review or executive
supervision.

Leonard McCoy waded through some four hundred of these name
files before he concluded that the procedure was too time-consuming
and exhausting for him to complete. He ordered his staff to finish the
chore and to report to him on the merits of maintaining specific records.
When they had finished the tedious work, they advised McCoy to
retain less than one half of 1 percent of the total, or no more than
150-200 out of the 40,000.

McCoy ordered these few sanctioned records to be placed into the
central registry, and the remainder to be rechecked again page by page
for relevant material. The discards were then to be burned. (It was to
take years just to destroy all of these files. The process was still
continuing when McCoy left the staff a full four years later, in 1978.)
He also advised that neither Angleton nor Rocca should be told of the
destruction of their files.

Kalaris and McCoy then instituted a strict new policy for the cre-
ation of a Counterintelligence Staff file. The primary criterion was that
there had to be a ‘‘reasonable national security suspicion’ before a file
could be opened on any person. On Kalaris’s watch, very few new files
were opened.

When the Kalaris commandos reached Jay Lovestone’s ‘‘JX Re-
ports,’’ the reviewers paused for breath and sat down to read them in
loving detail. They contained a remarkable amount of high-class
dinner-table gossip, including, by volume, approximately one foot of
pages full of Washington chatter alone. The files confirmed that An- -
gleton had indeed routed much of this salacious tittle-tattle to the DCI’s *
office on the seventh floor. When the readers had finished their review,
Kalaris phoned the chief of the DDO’s Labor Division (the CIA sec-
tion which should have been running the Lovestone operation all along)
to reveal the existence of the Lovestone connection and invite him to :
take over the whole ‘‘JX’’ filing system. (When this officer heard the :



13-00000

we gp eve WARKIUK

news, he loudly feigned a nervous breakdown. He had never been told
that Lovestone was a regular CIA informant-cum-agent!)

A flanking platoon of Kalaris aides was delayed for several. weeks
when they came across Rocca’s famous Research and Analysis files on
The Trust and the old wartime Rote Kapelle. (They discovered no less
than forty separate studies on The Trust alone.) Beyond those half-
century-old insights, they found files researching yet another decades-

_Old caper: a World War II operation involving Soviet deception of the

Nazis in the Caucasus. Kalaris was unable to comprehend their rele-
vance to the real world of 1975.

Kalaris and McCoy personally led the elite force that stormed the
inner sanctum: the super-secret Special Investigation Group’s office
and vault. Despite all of Angleton’s gloomy briefings, they found not
one single shred of hard evidence in the hundreds of SIG files that
proved any of the accusations against any of the HONETOL or other
molehunt suspects. The SIG had been the engine behind Angleton,
Golitsyn, and the Fundamentalists, a perpetual generator grinding out
the wattage for a bleak scenario in which Soviet agents were taking
over key men in key positions throughout the globe. Yet the entire
raison d’ étre of the SIG tured out to be so much documentary fantasy.
Time and again, in file after file, the two men found only newspaper
clippings, elevated gossip, chatty memoranda with waspish handwrit-
ten notes added, and unsubstantiated allegations.

Kalaris read through the two key British files, on Harold Wilson
(OATSHEAF) and Sir Roger Hollis; there was nothing substantive in
either of them. He perused the large file on Averell Harriman and
smaller ones on Armand Hammer and Henry Kissinger (contrary to Ed
Petty’s belief that the latter didn’t exist).° The new Counterintelligence
chief was so ashamed at the unacceptable quality of the intelligence he
uncovered that he had several dozen of the most egregious examples
destroyed as soon as possible:

A simultaneous priority for the hard-pressed Kalaris was dealing
with what came to be known as ‘‘the Golitsyn factor.’’ Angleton was
insistent from the outset that Kalaris should inherit his prized Soviet
defector and should treat Golitsyn with proper reverence and defer-
ence. Kalaris was less than enthusiastic. He already knew more than he
wanted to know about the former KGB officer and his bizarre theories,
and did not subscribe to the view that Golitsyn came with the Coun-
terintelligence Staff's furniture.

Angleton, however, pressed his Successor to attend a get-acquainted
dinner with Golitsyn at an Italian restaurant in nearby Alexandria in
late January 1975. Scotty Miler, who was still officially Golitsyn’s
case officer, came along too. As usual, the occasion began with a great

BACKWARDS IN THE MIRROR |

deal of drinking. In between toasts, Golitsyn offered to enlighten
new Counterintelligence chief with all of his views about the Rus
intelligence services. Angleton nodded enthusiastically, while Kal
gritted his teeth and reached for his cigarettes.

After being bombarded by dozens of unfamiliar names and ic
that didn’t seem to make any sense, the pragmatic Counterintellige
chief began to wonder whether he and Golitsyn were inhabitants of
same planet. There seemed to be some sort of galactic gap between
gruff Ukrainian’s allegations and the reality of the intelligence w«
that Kalaris had moved in for more than twenty years.

To add to Kalaris’s discomfort, Angleton and Miler kept nodd
their heads in vigorous agreement with every new point Golitsyn '
making. ‘‘See, George,’’ they would repeat, as the defector hung
one more unsupported conclusion on a trembling line of unchecl
evidence. Throughout the spaghetti, scampi, wine, and Scotch, Kal:
simply couldn’t understand what Golitsyn was talking about. h
respectful way, he tried to explain this to Angleton, but he sensed t
his message was not getting through.

Kalaris left the dinner with relief, only to be ambushed by
Fundamentalists again a month later, when they insisted that he m
Golitsyn once more—this time in one of the CIA's favorite hotels,
Key Bridge. Marriott at nearby Rosslyn Circle. It was an afternc
session, with Angleton and Miler again attending. Golitsyn talked a
talked, and Kalaris again found it quite impossible to comprehend |
briefing. As the three CIA men were leaving the hotel, Kalaris tum
to Miler and told him, ‘‘This is the last time I intend to meet Golitsy
I don’t understand him or anything about him..I cannot and will 1
waste my time like this. In the future, if Golitsyn has something for t
staff, I will send someone else-to deal with him.’”" ”

“*You can’t do that!’’ a horrified Miler replied. ‘‘Golitsyn is ve :
important and he has always dealt only with the top men.’’ °
Angleton supported Miler. ‘“You’ve got to try hard with Anatoliy
he advised Kalaris. ‘‘These things can take years.’’ :

Kalaris relented and reluctantly agreed to a third meeting a few da |
later. Another lunch, more wine, more of Golitsyn’s ponderous le =
turing. Kalaris, eyes glazing, tried his best to show interest and rema ~
calm, But when Golitsyn started talking about the ‘‘alleged’’ Sin
Soviet split, Kalaris exploded. ‘*Are you telling me that what we ha’ __
been seeing over there for fifteen years is not real?’’ he thundere: :

“*You.don't understand, you don’t understand,’’ grumbled the Si
viet defector. '? ; ;

When Kalaris returned to his office, he summoned one of his truste .
officers, Ernest Tsikerdanos. ‘‘I’ve decided to give you an assigi .


40 | Notes

interview with TM, June 12, 1989. In February 1974, Hersh had learned
about the CIA’s top secret, $500 million Glomar Explorer project to retrieve
a sunken Soviet submarine off the bottom of the Pacific Ocean—and he had,

- withheld publication on national security grounds.

31. William Colby strongly denies that he leaked any information to Sey-
mour Hersh or that he had planned in advance to use the Times story to get rid
of Angleton. ‘That's a lot of bull,"” Colby says. ‘I suspect Hersh got the
information from several sources. If you look at his story, you can see he put
it together. I would have handled Hersh the same way if Angleton were not
around.”’ William Colby, interview with TM, June 12, 1989. :

Hersh states simply, ‘‘Colby was not the source for my story.’ Seymore
Hersh, interview with TM, June 20, 1989.

32. William Colby, interview with TM, June 12, 1989.

33. As DCI, Colby was fully authorized to fire Angleton at his own
discretion without appeal or outside review. For security reasons, the CIA was
the only U.S. federal agency that permitted its director to take such unilateral
action and bypass normal civil service regulations. The CIA’s 1947 charter
stated that the DCI may in his discretion, terminate the employment of any
officer or employee of the agency whenever he shall deem such termination
necessary or advisable in the interests of the United States. Confidential
interview.

34. Donald Moore, interview with JG, December 6, 1988.
35. Peter Wright, interview with TM, February 22, 1989.
36. Seymour Hersh, interview with TM, June 20, 1989.

37, ABC-TV News, untransmitted footage, held in a commercial film
library in New York City and viewed in June 1990.

38. David Atlee Phillips, The Night Watch (New York: Atheneum, 1977),
pp. 264-66; David Phillips, interview with TM, May 1, 1988. Phillips con-
firmed this anecdote from his book before he died in July 1988.

39. Wright, Spycatcher, p. 377.

40. James Angleton, letter to Marcel Chalet, February 28, 1975.
41. Cicely Angleton, interview with TM, May 30, 1988.

42, Peter Wright, interview with TM, February 22, 1989.

43, William Hood, on the other hand, offered to continue temporarily,
since he felt he could make 2 contribution to the reformed Counterintelligence
Staff.

- 44, Newton Miler, interview with TM, February 13, 1989.

<a on
“

46. Leonard McCoy, interview with TM, June 8, 1988.
47. Ibid.

NoTes | 431

CHAPTER 22
1. Quoted in the New York Times, December 25, 1974, p. 1.
2. Confidential interview. .
‘ 3. William Colby, interview with TM, June 12, 1989.

4. The non-attributable quotations in this chapter have been collected
from friends and colleagues of the primary sources—and have been-carefully
cross-checked.

5. Confidential interview.
6. Confidential interview.
7. Confidential interview.
8. Confidential interview.

9. Henry Kissinger, interview with TM, June 15, 1989. Henry Kissinger
has told TM that he is unaware of the existence of any file on him from the
Counterintelligence Staff.

10. As each of these files was destroyed, a complete record was carefully
maintained about what had been done..Kalaris signed off on every file and the
DCI’s office was notified. Confidential interview.

11, Confidential interview.

12. Confidential interview.

13. Confidential interview.

14. Cordelia Hood, interview with TM, August 26, 1989; confidential
interviews.

15. The CIA announced the results of Tweedy's investigation and distrib-

uted a condensed version of his final report to the delegates at the next CAZAB
meeting at Camp Peary, Virginia. Confidential interview.

16. Confidential interview.
17. Newton Miler, interview with TM, February 14, 1989.

18. Leonard McCoy, interview with TM, June 1, 1988, and interview
with JG, June 15, 1988. .

19) Canfidential interuind


fey TUS AG
ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

24 June 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Fred Wickham

FROM: Barry Harrelson
SUBJECT: ARRB Request re Angelton and Scott
a7 Jeremy Gunn, ARRB staff, has requested (via

telephone) access to the following files/documents:

7 Winston Scott documents, including the entire
manuscript. It Came to Little, and personal effects seized on
Winston Scott's death;

b. files of James Angelton housed in the CI
vault. :

2. As (Linda Ciprisng handled the recent FOIA
litigation broug! ichae Pade hoe” (Win's son) for all
documents on his Farber Pasasy has copies of documents
eae onsive to Gunn's first request: in her office. I have

oken with G@inda) and we agree that, with your concurrence,
t ie best course of action would be to have Gunn view the
Scott documents and manuscript at OGC. You should be aware
that during the course of that litigation, searches were
conducted to locate personal effects seized by CIA upon
Scott's death. Those effects were never located, but a
destruction record that seems to refer to these personal
effects was located and provided to OGC. Gunn would need

_access to that destruction record as well. - a

3. The second request of Gunn also was an issue in
the Scott FOIA litigation. At that time the DO told IP&CRD
that all Angelton documents were sorted through in the 1970s
and that a separate CI Angelton holding no longer exist.
Official files were incorporated into DO record system and
material not deemed to be official records were destroyed.
To the extent that any destruction records exist on
Angelton's records, Jeremy would like to see these as well.
(Linda and I suggest that the DO search for any such
destruction records and forward them to OGC. In this way,
Jeremy can view them at the same time he views the Scott
documents.

4. Jeremy has agreed that if CIA allows him to view
the above records "informally" and he finds nothing that
relates to the assassination, then he will not make an
“official request" for these records. Of course, any
records he believes to be relevant, he will have to make an
official request and they will then become part of the JFK
Collection.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


Candee) : : ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

at

5. Please let me know if you have any problems with
the above proposal. Feel free to phone me (30292) or Linda
(76124) if you have any questions or concerns.

Barry Harrelson‘*_-~ Hey

cc: C/HRG

priani),

Ellie Neiman

“2

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

- : s awe. } o

SPECIAL COLLECTION e :

a RELEASE IN FULL |
2000

—_—_—_________ ¥

‘ALSO BY WILLIAM R. CorsON
The Betrayal a
Promise or Peril

Consequences of Failure
The Armies of Ignorance,
_ The New KGB (with Robert Crowley)

By JosEPH AND SUSAN TRENTO

Prescription for Disaster William R. Corson, Susan B. Trento,
By JosePH TRENTO a
The National Aeronautics and Space and Joseph J. Trento
Administration (with Richard Hirsch) 17 4

CROWN PUBLISHERS, INC.
New York


13-00000

54 WIDOWS

ment. Somewhere in the CIA, and perhaps elsewhere in the US.
government, at least one mole was digging in, and this unbelievably

PAISLEY: MOLE 55

speak to Goleniewski about an investigation they were conducting into

. . fi.
In 1970 the British contacted Petty and told him that they needed fo.

.bright and complicated man wanted him trapped.

Within the CIA, everyone realized how tough Angleton’s job was.
Hank Knoche recalls Angleton’s outlook: ‘Angleton had a special
view of the world... colored very much by the responsibilities he
had as chief of the CI staff, [a position he had held) for years and
years. You almost have to be 100 percent paranoid to do that job. You

the loyalty of Sir Michael Hanley, a senior official in MIS. Petty ex- 7,
plained that the CIA had broken off its relationship with Goleniewski, —
but the FBI in New York kept in contact with him. Months later the
British called Petty to tell him how extraordinarily helpful Goleniewski

7 had been. Then they dropped a bombshell. As an aside to Goleniew-

, ski's devastating accusations about Hanley, he charged that Nixon's “

always have to fear the worst. You always have to assume the worst
of your enemies. You always have to assume, without necessarily
having the proof in your hands, that your own organization has been
penetrated and that there’s a mole around somewhere. And it creates
this terrible distrustful attitude.”” _

Angleton’s power exceeded by far the responsibilities of his job at
the CIA. Although he never had more than 120 people working for
him, he became a feared and revered legend. CIA employees would
point Angleton out in the hallway, only to discover years later that
they had pointed to the wrong man. He cast a giant shadow across the
entire CIA, and yet few people ever worked with him. His search for
the mole was spurred on by the warnings of one defector. Angleton
had become almost bewitched by the conspiracies woven by a Soviet
defector named Anatolyi Golitsyn.

Golitsyn defected in Helsinki in late 1961. Characterized by those
who had to deal with him as arrogant, nasty, and loaded with details
of KGB operations around the world, Golitsyn was the only defector
Angleton ever trusted. ‘‘With the single exception of Golitsyn, Angle-
ton was inclined to assume that any defector or operational asset. in
place was controlled by the KGB,” said Clare Edward Petty, who
worked for Angleton.’ But Angleton was so infatuated with this man
that he lowered his carefully constructed guard, which had, in the past,
always prevented him and his counterintelligence staff from being cap-
tivated by defectors.

Before and after Golitsyn, other defectors did not fare as well as he
did. Michal Goleniewski—code name sNIPER—the highest-ranking
Polish agent ever to defect to the West, had so worn out his welcome
by the early 1970s that no one from the CIA even remained in touch
with him. According to Petty, Angleton considered Goleniewski a
provocation, a Soviet agent sent to the West with carefully prepared
false information. He was not to be trusted. But from the time he
defected in West Berlin in 1960 with“his mistress, his information
“proved to be reliable. He had warned the West of a Soviet mole—a
“midievel agent,"’ and his warnings were ignored. The mole was the
infamous British agent George Blake, who turned out to have been
- working for the KGB.

National Security Adviser-—Henry Kissinger—was a Soviet_agent.
Petty was told by the British that Goleniewski had an office mate who
had previously run operations for the Soviets in East Germany during
the last few years of World War II and after the war. This agent
handler had run some very sensitive cases, and he had a safe. When
the agent handler died, Goleniewski was commissioned by the UB
(Polish intelligence) to open up his safe and read the contents and
inventory them. It was during this inventory that Goleniewski ran
across a case of two Soviet agents run by his deceased colleague.
According to Petty, Goleniewski said both of them had cryptonyms,
exact information as to when they had been recruited, and a case file
of what they had done. Goleniewski identified one as Henry Kissinger.
He said that Kissinger had been returned to the United States and had
been contacted subsequent to his return to continue his work for the
Soviets in the United States.

Goleniewski knew that Kissinger had been put to work on a CIA
project at Harvard. Petty and his colleagues were reasonably certain
that Goleniewski could have come up with most of his information
from open sources, but not the part about Kissinger’s CIA connec-
tions. That had been secret. In 1971, Angleton’s staff reluctantly began
an investigation of Kissinger. They had no choice, according to Petty:
“Despite the fact that Goleniewski had been widely discredited as
being mentally deranged or perhaps a Soviet agent, the specificity of
his lead was comparable to that [which was] characteristic of his best
work, and could in no way be ignored,"’ Petty said.

The CI division began using all its sources to pull together a dossier
on the flamboyant and egotistical National Security Adviser. In the
opinion of the counterintelligence officials at the CIA, Kissinger
treated them as bothersome meddlers when they requested that he
follow normal security precautions in dealing with the Soviets.

Petty gave Angleton a memo on the charges. But instead of notifying
the FBI and ordering an investigation, Angleton, according to Petty,
“sat on it."’ Although the British had vouched for Goleniewski, some
at the CIA thought the defector was mentally unstable, and that his
insistence that he was related to the Tsar was symptomatic. Angleton
told the British, through one of MI5’s assistant directors, Peter Wright.


13-00000

94 WIDOWS

Soviet Foreign Ministry. Ogorodnik was eventually transferred back
to Moscow to work at the Foreign Ministry, in the Global Affairs
Séction. :

Ogorodnik was not a believer in American democracy, but he did
believe in capitalism. He sold out the Soviet government for several
large payments in gold. The CIA’s Soviet Division gave Ogorodnik the
code name TRIGON. For two years a wealth of material—much of it
gossip involving key personalities in the Soviet Foreign Service—
emerged from TRIGON. But the handling of this source was neither
careful nor skillful. Use of standard tradecraft in Moscow, such as
dead drops, was considered both dangerous and potentially embarrass-
ing. The KGB is so overstaffed that putting full surveillance on all CIA
people in Moscow is standard practice. The compromise of Martha
Peterson was fairly predictable, considering the risks of working in the
Soviet Union. :

Once Peterson was arrested, the CIA considered TRIGON compro-
“mised. It was clear to McCoy that Peterson had been set up for her
arrest at the drop site. What the CIA did not know was how long the
KGB had been onto TRIGON, or how they had got onto TRIGON in the
first place. Another thing the CIA had to know was if the KGB had
forced TRIGON to start feeding back phony material, and if so, when.
Almost immediately, Leonard McCoy, who had been a reports officer
on so many similar cases, would now look at the TRIGON case as a
counterintelligence officer. Since early 1975, McCoy had been the
number-two man to George Kalaris, who had replaced James Angle-
ton. Neither Kalaris nor McCoy had any real experience in counter-
intelligence when they took over from the renowned spymaster. And
in the ensuing years, they did little to impress many counterintelli-
gence veterans or the FBI. But, as discussed later in this book, the
biggest body blow to Kalaris and McCoy was the bizarre management
of the Nick Shadrin case.””

* . By 1977, when Martha Peterson was arrested, McCoy’s reputation
as a counterintelligence expert was suffering badly. McCoy says that
CIA Director Adm. Stansfield Turner gave him only two weeks to find
out how TRIGON was compromised. In an attempt to find out what had
happened that caused the Peterson arrest and the subsequent execu-
tion by the KGB of TRIGON, McCoy found himself in a political mine
field. For a brief time, McCoy suspected that Dr. Henry Kissinger may
have played a role in the compromise of. TRIGON. One piece of intelli-
gence that came McCoy’s way was a bizarre NSA intercept from the
Soviet Embassy in Washington in April 1977. The cable was sent by
Ambassador Anatoly Dobrynin to the Foreign Ministry in Moscow. It
referred to advice Henry Kissinger had given Dobrynin on how to deal
with the new Carter administration in the ongoing SALT IT negotia-

PAISLEY: THE JABBERMOLE? 95

tions. For McCoy, the cable was a shocking document. The idea that
a former Secretary of State and National Security Adviser would meet
alone, as a private citizen, with the Soviet Ambassador to discuss
negotiating techniques seemed almost.beyond belief to McCoy.

The cable gave credence to an old file McCoy had inherited when
he moved into CI—the file of the original investigation and supporting
documents looking into Kissinger’s loyalty that grew out of Michal
Goleniewski’s charges in 1969. What ‘made matters worse was that
Angleton’s old office files also reflected long meetings Kissinger and
Dobrynin had had alone during the Nixon years. Angleton noted that
Kissinger had refused to be debriefed after those meetings. All McCoy
knew was that Kissinger had displayed a questionable pattern of be-
havior. Now a key source in the Soviet Foreign Ministry had been
lost, and it was a source that Kissinger was in a position to identify to
the Soviets.


13-00000

01/08/97 Web. 4v:V0 FAA ZUZ 144 VA!

4 ThpdF

= att romhenseineere 2 %

Heke “C/RSPREIAL COLLECTIONS -
‘RELEASE IN FULL

2000

New Orleans, Hunter Leake,
and ZRCLIFF Clay Shaw, QKENCHANT,


13-00000
at

See ge)

SECOND DRAFT 3/6/97 [arrbci.do2]
NOTES BY TJG FOR ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD
JANUARY 15, 1997

Cleveland Cram

Untitled (History of the old CI staff) (beginning to dismissal of Angleton)
II Volumes (c.1981)

1063 pages

The Post-Angleton CI Staff
2 volumes (July, 1993)

The ARRB requested access to any and all internal CIA histories of the CI staff for the
purpose of determining whether they contain any information that would be useful for
understanding the assassination of President Kennedy, including for example, the
activities of Lee Harvey Oswald, the structure of CI with respect to the components of
the office that had responsibility for handling Oswald’s file at different times
(particularly CI/SIG), and any aspect of HTLINGUAL related to Oswald. Because the
Agency keeps these histories closely held, it was believed that they are relatively more
likely to be candid assessments of CI and its activities than one might obtain from more
widely circulate documents.

I was provided complete access to the entire 11 volumes of an untitled history of the old
Cl staff (hereafter Old CI Staff). The Old CI Staff covers counterintelligence at CIA from.
its origins to the departure of James Jesus Angleton. The histories appear as typed
legal-size pages in green, cardboard folders. The first volume is hand dated (1981) and
is signed “Cleveland Cram.” I was also provided complete access to a second history of
counterintelligence, the Post-Angleton CI Staff (hereafter Post-Angleton) which starts with
the departure of Angleton and continues to the conversion of the CI Staff into the CI
Center in the spring of 1988.

By all appearances, the histories appear to be relatively candid assessments of CI Staff
activities. I was able to identify information that illuminated some of the issues of
concern, and those will be outlined below. I identified no information that would lead
to any significant reevaluation of the role of CI in issues related to Oswald or to the
assassination. For the purpose of understanding the assassination of the President or
the other issues that come within the scope of the Review Board’s mandate - other than
the information identified below — I do not believe that the histories themselves, nor
copies of any of the pages of the histories, would provide any significant useful
additional information that would enhance the understanding of the assassination and I
see no need for any further information to be released from the histories. [It is my
preliminary judgment that the page numbers highlighted below should be copied
and attached to this memorandum so that they can be made public.]


13-00000

The information contained in the histories consists largely of case studies of important
counterintelligence activities. As a rule, the histories do not describe the structure of the
Cl offices, the personnel, the filing system, or operations generally -- although
discussion of some of these issues arises. The principal sources used by the authors
consisted of documents from the CI Staff and interviews with officers. There are
relatively few footnotes dn the citations are, accordingly, quite thin. There are, for
example, only 8 footnotes in volume 1 of the Old CI Staff history, which themselves are
sketchy.

:Old Cl Staff

1. The introduction to the Old CI Staff refers to an earlier CI history that was
written by a person who was provided only limited access to Angleton and the
files. The author, accordingly, found the history to be unhelpful for
understanding sensitive CI activities. (Old CI Staff, pp. 1-2).There are references
to two additional documents that should be requested: The Bronson Tweedy
[w/Goleniewski?] study on Golitsyn (1975) and the John Hart study on Nosenko
(called “The Monster Plot”). (Charles Battaglia, Staff Director of the SSCI, told
me that the ARRB should request The Monster Plot for review under the JFK
Act.)

2. There is a reference to a 1959 IG survey of CI which should be requested for
review. (See e.g., Old CI Staff, pp. 47,56)

3. The 1959 IG analysis stated that, within the CI staff, “96 were professionals, 75
clerical and four staff agents. The Staff also had one Headquarters contract
agent, and several agents under projects.” (Old CI Staff, p. 48)

4, There is a discussion of the Special Investigations Unit (circa 1959) and
HTLINGUAL. Copies of pages 49-51, and 55, which describe the SIU and
HTLINGUAL, should be evaluated to determine whether they contribute to
understanding of relevant issues.

5. Angleton was on sick leave from the agency from May, 1960 to 12 January
1961. During Angleton’s absence, [S. Herman Horton] was Acting Chief and
James Hunt was Acting Deputy Chief. Hunt subsequently became the regular
deputy and served until 1969. (Old CI Staff, p. 58)

6. Routine liaison with FBI was conducted by Jané Roman from the late 1940s
onward...” (Old CI Staff, p. 70). Sensitive matters were handled, however, by
Angleton or Hunt (Old CI Staff, p. 70) although this practice “did not develop
until the early 1960s after the defection of Golitsyn.....” (Old CI Staff, p. 71).

7. The activities of CI/SIG are described on pp. 144-45. The sources cited in the


13-00000

Old CI Staff are the 1955 and 1973 descriptions of its activities. It should be
decided whether these two pages should be copied for attachment to this memo.

I did not find that the references to Nosenko provided additional information that
enhances the historical understanding of the assassination. Mr. Angleton’s testimony to
the Church Committee is much more illuminating in that regard.

The Post-Angleton history, although covering the period after Oswald and the
assassination, discusses the issues of the disposition of the files of James Jesus Angleton
and a few other matters. Because of the speculation about the contents of the files,
discussions of their disposition would seem to be relevant. The pertinent points are as
follows:

Post Angleton, Volume I:

1. The volume describes the CI staff, at the departure of Angleton, as being
seriously disorganized and as being intellectually detached from the work of the
rest of the agency. (Post-Angleton, p. 1:6-8.)

2. The Angleton office files were voluminous and in disarray at the time of his
departure from the Agency. It may be appropriate to make copies of pp.I:8 (last
paragraph) up to the last paragraph on p. 14, 53-57 to illustrate this.

3. [Files were found on the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy and his
brother Robert F. Kennedy. These included autopsy pictures of the remains of
Robert Kennedy. Although Nosenko’s account of the KGB’s involvements with
Lee Harvey Oswald and his denial that the KGB had anything to do with the
murder of John Kennedy might reasonably explain an Angleton interest in the
John Kennedy assassination, neither Kalaris nor Blee, with whom Kalaris
consulted on this bizarre finding, had any idea why Angleton had the pictures.
Neither could they think of any reason why it was appropriate for CI Staff files to
contain them. They were accordingly destroyed.” (Post-Angleton, p. 1:11). I
subsequently spoke with the author, who told me that he had spoken to Kalaris
and Blee about this, and neither man could remember anything in the files except
the Robert Kennedy photographs and some newspaper clippings.

4. The files revealed evidence that Angleton conducted “counterintelligence
[operations or activities?] abroad as Chief of the CI Staff in the way in which the
local station would be effectively cut out and command channel and
communications would run direct to counterintelligence headquarters in
Washington.” (Post-Angleton, p. 1:22.) (sic). I interpret these words to say the
following: Angleton conducted counterintelligence operations [activities?]
abroad as Chief of the CI Staff in such a way that local stations would be


13-00000

effectively cut out; command channel and communications would run directly to
counterintelligence headquarters in Washington. [Gunn would like to re-review
this page to make sure that he has quoted from it correctly.]

5. The author cites two examples where Angleton ran liaison with friendly
governments without the local station chiefs being specifically aware of
Angleton’s activities. The station chiefs found this “frustrating.” (Post-Angleton,
pp. I: 25-26). :

6. (Circa 1976) “[H]andling [FOIA requests for information concerning Lee
Harvey Oswald] required the creation of a task force of 13 operations officers
and analysts, plus clerical personnel, and their full-time efforts for over a
month.” (Post-Angleton, p. I:67.)

7. Discussion of activities of part of CI staff circa 1976: “Double Agent Branch —-
was charged with the conduct of and coordination o double agent operations
abroad. Since the vast majority of DA cases were run by the US military services,
the FBI, or — in some instances — foreign-liaison services, the branch was very
heavily a coordinator rather than active runner of operations.” (Post-Angleton, p.
1:71).

8. The author refers to an August 1976 IG report sometimes called the Freer
report. It analyzes Angleton’s stewardship over CI compared to that of Kalaris.
It discusses how Angleton ran Cl. We should review this report. [It is cited in
Mangold, Cold Warrior, at 316.]

Post-Angleton, Volume II:

The only significant reference in the second volume pertains to the final completion of
the review of the Angleton files. (Post-Angleton, p. II:114.)

e\ci


13-00000 |

“New Note\Personalized

CL BY: 100
CL REASOW: Section 1.6
DECLON:

From the Desk of Richard D. Kovar-Y-

QKSCIF
NOTE FOR: J. Barry harrelson
FROM: Richard D. Kovar-Y-
OFFICE: Dc
DATE: 09/25/98 17:38:59

SUBJECT: Jeremy's CI History requirements

From the "Old Cl Staff":
Pages 49-51, and 55 (HTLINGUAL)
Pages 144-45 (Ci/SIG)

From "Post-Angleton”: (I and fl are Roman numerals, apparently volumes)

Pages |:6-8 (Staff disorganization)

Pages |:8, starting with the last paragraph, up to the last paragraph on page 14, 53-57 (sic).
disarray)

Page 1:11 (Kennedy files)

Page 1:22 (Cl abroad)

Page 1:67 (FOIA)

Page |:71 (Double agents)

Page Il: 114 (File review)

ce:

New Note\Personalized

}. (Files


13-00000

2.

JAN 27 97 10:21AM USGOVERNMENT . P.2/8

IG FOR ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD

On January 13, 1997, Michelle Combs and Jeremy Gunn from the ARRB Staff reviowed the files
of Winstoii McKinley Scott at CLA headquarters in Langley, Virginia. The General Counsel's office
stated that that the files présented for our examination are the “complete” files known to the CIA on Scott.

The documents total approximatily 6 Inches, and include:
(2) A manvscript entitled “It Cime to Litte," by Ian Maxwell (pscud.), which contains 221

5 from basic truth” (unpaginated forward). It reveals that some trae
have been, and that thia has been dono withdut thé consent af the persons named. ‘The author

Sefeeset Be ent heen sankuteas utmriost respect for: Mr. John Edgar Hoover, Director, Federal ©
Benen fopeegtn [e: Me James R. Murphy, wartime director af OSS/X-2; and particularly , tho
( Chief in Ssftzerland duting World War I a principal architect in the

serge Mane and the Greatest Director CLA has had.” The suthor refers to

id the courageous people who have worked to fight it, but nevertheless

it [to thwart Communism] has comé to litle." (unpaginated forward)

a ee
‘Kennedy arid to-the eventa City at the time Lee Harvey Oswald was alleged,to have
visited, ‘Tiesiiate Hs tenn in fill to thé public.

A Splint Detar ot. Barry Harrelson from the case Michael Scott v, CIA, CA
Na pes aie it Asean

Reaoeey

@ Re ecu All of the documents
in thi ile ware reviewed to detcrmine whether any assassination records ar incinded Our review
disclosed no “aszaszination records.” Although: nit aséassination records, the following information was
located in UiSpersotna ie:

=~ The records disclose that during World War II, while in the employ of the FBI, Scott worked in
“connection with espionage and subversive activities” and in “counteresplonage” while based in Havana.

~ Documesit, dated 7/23/69, reférs to the possibility that CLA might attempt to recruit Scott for
the “Civilian Reserve Program (HR 20-15) following his retirement from the agency,

~ On May 6, 1969, Scott was recommended for a Distingulahed Intelligence Medal by William
V. Broe, who was then Chief af WH. The recommendation includes the following statement:

“Mr. Scott built a large and highly effective organization targeted against highest priority
nitional security targets; namely, the Soviet bloc presence south of the border. Given the nature
of the target, Mr. Scott molded his station with a predominantly CI orientation until it has
become a highly effective counterintelligence mechanism capable of covering Soviet Bloc and
‘Cuban [activitios).”

‘His Citation for the Distinguished Intelligence Medal includes the following statement:



13-00000

JAN 27 797 18:23AM USGOVERNMENT P.3/8

SEPRET 2

“[Hlje has served brilliantly in Mexico for aver twelve years where among other things he has
built a remarkable counterintelligence machine~a trus bulwark helping to guard our southern
border, Fils station has long been a showcase of technical intelligence methods as well as
classical operations.”

— There is no record in the file that suggests, one way or the other, that Mr. Scott was ever
treated for or suffered from any mental or emotional issue.
Unless the following are already part of the JFK collection, they should be dealgnated “assassination
records” and processed under the JFK Act.

FAR: Dee.'93: 8 Oct. 1976 for Chief, Security Analysis Group fram {roct] in Security Analysis
Group, subject: Philip BF. AGBE Exposure of CIA Personnel (4 pp.).

“AR: Doc. 94:, discussion of Chapter 21 af manuscript.
-wAR: Déc. 129: discussion of chapter 21 of manuscript

“AR: Doc, 131: discussion of removing Scott papers after his death
“AR: Dec, 132: ditto

AR: Doc. 134 brief message re: manuscript

‘TSG was shown the Records Control Schedule that appears to document the destruction of some Win Scott dow
documents. ‘This récord should, perhaps, be designated an “assassination record.” Sanad ey
ae
Queries/follow-up;
Vetificatian no other WS files
Process ARs
Which records are already in collection?

ARRB mut til review any Scott destruction schedules,


13-00000

| SENET

2. Thare is a reference to a 1959 IG survey of Cl which should be requested for review. (See,
e.g., Cram 47, 56

3, The 1959 1G analysis stated the within the CI staff, “96 were professionals, 75 clerical and
‘four staff agents, The Staff also had one Headquarters contract agent, and several agents under
projects.” (Cram, 48),

4 There is a discussion of the Special Investigations Unit (circa 1959) and HTLINGUAL.
Copies af pages 49-81, and 55, which describe the STU and HTLINGUAL, should bq evaluated to
détermine whether they contribute to understanding of relevint iasues.

S. Angleton was on sick leave from the agency fram May, 1960 to.12 January 1961. During
Angletoa’s absence, 8, Herman Horton was Acting Chief and James Hunt wad Acting Deputy
Chief. Hunt subsequently bécamé the regular deputy ‘ind served until 1969.(Cram,,58).

6. Routine sien with FEI was conde by Jane Raman “un the Uae 1940¢ oxen»
(Cram, 70), Sonsitive matters were handled, liowever, by Angleton or Hant iam songs

this practice “ld not develop until the early 1960¢ after the defoction of Golitsya... ” (Cram,
1).

7. ‘The activities af CI/SIG are described on pp. 144-48, Cram’s clted sources are the 1955 and
1ST deiniians fe sails It éhould be decided whether these tivo pages should be copled
for attachment to

I did not find that the references to Nosenko provided additional information that enhances the historical
understanding of the assassination. Mr. Angléton’s testimony to the Church Cammittee fs much more
illuminating in that regard.

‘The Gonne? history, although after the period af Oswald and the assassination, discusses the issucs of the
disposition of the files of James Jesus Angleton and a few other matters. Becauise of the speculation about
the contents of the files, discussions of their disposition would scem to be relevant: ‘The pertinent points
are as follows:

(Bonned volume I:

1, Bonnendescribes the CI staff, at the departure of Angleton, as being seriously unorganized
and as being intellectually detached from the work of the agency. Gouner|p. 16-8,

2. The Angleton office files were voluminous and in disarray at the time of his departure from
the Agency. It may be appropriate to make copies of pp. 1:8 (last paragraph) up to the last
paragraph on p. 14, $3.57 to illustrate thia:”

3. “Files were found on the assassinations af President John F. Kennedy and his brother Robert
F. Kennedy, ‘These included autopsy pictures of the remains of Robert Kennedy. Although
Nosenko's account of the KGB's involvement with Lee Harvey Oswald and his denial that the
KGB had anything to do with the murder of John Kennedy might reasonably explain an
Angleton interest in the John Kennedy assassination, neither Kalaris nar Blee, with whom.
Kalaris consulted on this bizarre finding, had any idea why Angleton had the pictures. Neither
could they think of any reason why it was appropriate for CI Staff files to contain them. They
were accordingly destroyed.” (Bonnet) p. 1:11). I subsequently interviewed Bonner) who told me


13-00000

JAN 27 ’97 1@:26AM USGOVERNMENT P.6/8

3 ‘ 4

ornnrt
that he had spoken to Kalaris and Blce about this, and neither man could remember, anything in
the files except the Robart Kennedy photographs.

4. The files revealed evidence that Angleton ran “counterintelligence [operations] abroad as
Chicf of the Cl Staff in the way in which the local statlon winuld bc effectively cut out and
command channel and communicationd woitld run direct to 3 counterintelligence headquarters in
Washington.” (Bonet, p, 1:22.) (sic). Ipelieve! saying the following: Angleton ran
counterintelligence operations abroad aé Chief of the CI Staff in such a way that local stations
would be éffectivély cut out; comand channel arid communications would rin direct to
Counterintelligence headquartert in Washington.

inact els ting toteny Spear Angones aide "Ae aden cpt
local station of Angleton's activities, The station chiefs found this

fi Information cyncering Lie Harvey Oxwaldl

7. Discussida of activities of, of Clit circa 1976; “Double Agent Branch ~ was charged
with the conduct of and coordination

services, tt ‘branch was very heavily a coordinator rather than active runzier of operations.”
Bonner, p. 1:71).

8, (Bonner réferé to an August 1976 1G report sometimes called,the Freer report. It analyzes
Angleton’s stewardship over Cl,compared to that of Kalaris, It discusses how Angleton ran CI.
We should riview this report. Dt is cited in Mangold, Cold Warrlor, at 316.]

(Bonned volume

The only significant ference n Bond ersina tothe final completion ofthe view ofthe Angleton
files. Gouner, p. 114.)

SECRET


13-00000

JON 27 97 10:23AM USGOVERNYENT = P.4/8

si, SFPMET

DRAFT NOTES BY TJG FOR ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD
JANUARY 15, 1997

Cleveland Cram
Tpeiod (lr of the fd Cl stat ingltingo donde of Anema)
11 Volumes (¢. 1981)

2 volumes (uly, 1993)

detaining nogher dey ots ony Ltvenaton Gat wea to woctd Srontaesmcteg ot
determining whether they contain any information that would be useful for understanding the,
assassination of President Kennedy, including, for example, the activities Gf Lee Harvey the
structure of CI with respect to the compodents of the affice that had responsibility for Oswald's
file at diferent times (particularly C1/SIG), and any aspect of HTLINGUAL related to Oswald. Because
y keeps these histories closely held, it was bolleved that they are relatively more likely to be
caridid assesemente of Cl and its activities than one might obtain from more widely circulate documents.

I was provided complete access to,the entire 11 yolumes af Cleveland Cram's (untitled) history of the old
Cl stiff. ‘The Cram histoty covers countérintelligence at the CLA from its origins t6 the departure of
James Jesus Angleton, The histories appear as typed legal-size pages in green, cardboard folders. The.
‘art volumne fe hand dated (1981) and tlgned *Cloveland Cram.” There are 1063 pages in the, Cram

history. Pisahen peepee me ela
with the departure of Angleton and continues to

aeemathen at thancaed neces tne inane Ghootsocs and haan walle oot I was able to identify
that illuminated somic of the idrues of concem, and those will be outlined below. I identified
so information that would lead t any significant reevaluation Of the role of CI in sues related to Oswald

= other th
not believe that the histories themscives, nor copies af any of the pages

any significant useful additional information that would enharice the understanding af the
aésassination ‘and I see no noed for any farther information to be released from the histories, 1 ta any

E ‘Prélisatn ry udgment hate page numbers Nghighid Below shou 3 copled and tached to thls

memorandum so that they Can be made public.‘

The information contained in the histories consists largely of case studies of important counterintelligence
activities. As a ruls, the histories do not describe the structure of the Cl affices, the personnel, the filing
system, or operations generally -- although discussion of some of these issues arises. The principal
sources used by the authors consisted of documents from CI and interviews with officers. There are
Telatively few footnotes and the citations ate, accordingly, quite thin. There aro, for example, only 8
footnotes in volume 1, which themselves are sketchy, The paints that enhance the historical
undorstanding of the assassination are:

1. The introduction to Cram's history refers to an earlier CI history that was written by a person
who was provided only limited access to Angleton and the files, The author of the first history
‘was given, for example, no access to any CI/SIG documents, Cram, accordingly, found the
history to bo unhelpful for understanding sensitive Cl activities. (Cram, p. 1-2). There are
references to two additional documents that should be requested: the Goleniewski study on
Golitsyn (1975) and the John Hart study on Nosenko (called the “Monster Plot” ). (Charles
Battaglia, Staff Director of the SSCI, told me that the ARRB should request the Monster Plot for
review under the JFK Act.)


13-00000

JAN. 27 ’97 18:25AM USGOVERNMENT P.5/8

> SpeneT

7 ‘There is a reference to a 1959 IG survey of Cl which should be requested for review. (See,

., Cram 47, 56
3. ‘The 1959 1G analysts stated the within the Cl staff, “96 were professionals, 75 clerical and
four staff agents. ‘The Staff also had ons. contract agenit, and several agents under
projects.” (Cram, 48),

4. There is a discussion of the Special Investigations Unit (cltca 1959) and HTLINGUAL.
Copies of pages 49-81, and SS, which desctibe the SIU and HTLINGUAL, should be evaluated to
détermine whether they contribute to understanding of relevant. gues,

5. Angleton was on sick leave from the agency from) , 1960 t0.12 January 1961. During
Angléton’s absence, 8. Herman Horton was Acting and James Hunt wad Acting Deputy
Chief. Hunt subsequently bécame the regular deputy’and served until 1969, .(Crain,,58).

6. Routine liaison with FBI was conducted by Jano Roman “from the late 940s onward . .
(Cram, 70), Scnsitive matters handled, However, by Angleton or Hunt (Cram, uel ie
this practice “Ald not develop the eatly 19608 ifter the defection of Golltsya . -” (Cram,
71).

7. The acliies of CUSIG are déscribed on pp. 144-48, Cram’s cited sources are the 1955 and
1973 dedcriptions of its activities: It should be decided whether thése two pages should be copied
for attachment to this memo.

I did not find that the references to Nosenko provided additional information that enhances the historical
understanding of the assassination. Mr. Angléton’s testimony to the Church Cammittee is much more
illuminating in that regard.

‘The BBE? history, although after the period of Oswald and the assassination, discusses the issues of the
disposition of the files of James Jesus Angleton and a few other matters. Bécauée of the speculation about
the contents of the files, dlécussious af their disposition would seem to be relevant’ The pertinent paints

are as follows:

(GEER volume I:

1. GBRRED describes the CI staff, at the departure of Angleton, as being seriously unorganized
and as being intelléctually detached froma the work of the agency. (HEDGE p. I:6-8,)

2. The Angleton office files were voluminous and in disarray at the time of his departure from
the Agency. It may be appropriate to.make copies of pp. 1:8 (last paragraph) up to the last
paragraph on p. 14, $3-87 to illustedte this.”

3. “[Fliles were found on the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy and his brother Robert
F. Kennedy, These included autopsy pictures of the remains af Robert Kennedy. Although
Nosenko's account of the KGB's involvement with Lee Harvey Oswald and his denial that the
KGB had anything to do with the murder of John Kennedy might reasonably explain an
Angleton interest in the John Kennedy assassination, neither Kalaris nor Blec, with whom
Kalaris consulted on this bizarre finding, had any idea why Angleton had the pictures. Neither
could they think of any reason why it was appropriate for CI Staff files to contain them. They
were accordingly destroyed.” (BouHs® p. I:11). I subsequently interviewed Hafiriey} who told me

SECRET


13-00000
"Jey 27 '97 10:26AM USGOVERNMENT P.6/8

> oc entt

that he had spoken to Kalaris and Blce about this, and neither min could remember, anything in
thie files except the Robert Kensisdy photographs.

4 The files revealed evidence that Angleton ran “counterintelligence [operations] abroad as
Chitf of the Cl Staff in the way in which the loca! station would be effectively cut out and
command channél and communication would run direct terintelligence headquarters in
Washington” (Sane p. 1:22.) (alc). Lbelieve BBiie ts eaying the following: Angleton ran
operations is abroad as Chief of; Cl Staff in auch a way that local stations
would be éffectivély cuf out; Gommand-channel arid Communications would nin direct to
counterintelligence headquarter’ i Washington.

5. 5. CESRAPS cits two examples where Angleton ran Lalson with endl governments wthont the
chiefs belng specifically axjare of Aiigleton's activities ‘The station chicfa found this

Pas i" Giger 128%
6. (Cigca 9 976), “(Handling [FOI [FOIA for information concerning Lée Harvey Ozwald]
require ofa task force Operations officers and analysts, plus clerical pérsannel,

in thet al Zetia for fea maith” Code Gaaiae p. 1:67)
/ 2. Discus of cides of pap of Cds circa 1976; “Double Agent Branch ~ was charged

(with the conduct of operations abroad.” Since the vast majority
“GEDA cases were the US mln services, the Fl, or-in ame intances—foregnliaion
servlocs, dic branch ‘very beatily & codtdinstor Tether than active runscr of operations.”

Sones p. 1:71).

8, (BORHEY refers to an August 1976 1G report sometimes called,the Freer report. It analyzes
Angleton's stewardship aver Cl,compared to that of Kalarig. It discusses bow Angleton ran CI,
We should réview this feport, tits cited in Mangold, Cold Warrlor, 23161

Ggekiep volume 1:
The only significant reference in Gdfrief pertains to the final completion of the review of the Angleton

files, GARE p. 1:114.)

SECRET


. JAN 27 3? 10:27AM USGOVERNYENT = P.78

SEGRE mee

RT BY K AND TIG: HOR ASSASSINATION ‘RECORDS REVIEW BOARD >

apy claraias allele

ae ee litigation files conalt of 7 redwelds, totalling approximately 16 inches, They
are organized by “tabs,” which can be described as follown:

Tab A; copies of published newspaper and magazine clippings that were released in full. I see no need to
designata ény documedite ds assadsination records trom the fet.

are copies of published newspaper eet ctchahel offs copecand indian Texto ns ‘The agency
and indicators. I sce no need to
a

= scume 0 Anglewn from the 1940s; including his cateer with OSS. I see no need to
palpi peace pee eer we
oats ‘A (onleas already part of thé collection): Does, 95 (24 Nov, 1978.
‘tatinany, HSCA), oes ieee maneseanpeiee

n conjunction with his anticipated ¢estimony
‘are-AR and should be processed under the

released to Edward J. Epstein in response to a request for book reviews from
” These documents are all copies af book reviews from

‘Tab F contains docunients previously released to Henry Hurt in responso to a request for documents
ar Orlov, ‘Most of the documsnts are newspaper articles and reprints of Senate
iBetimay. Tod nd nbd 18 designate ay documents as assassination recard from the set

Tab G contains documents previously released to A. Doppelt (on behalf of The Readers Digest in

sto request far documents ooticemning Nicholas Shadrin, ‘These documents include a speech by
Ec ‘Turhér, testimony by: y Capt. Nikolai Fedorovich Artamonov (Shadrin) before the Comittee on Un-
prenismtempenn 14, 1960), a transcript of a Panorama show on Artamonov, and extensive
oo s fram Hiv wife to varlous USG officials about Shadrin’s dissappearance. I sce no need to

td any doctimients ts assassination records from the set, oo enlewcee ete yafede'

hia was eee

‘Thé Denied Documents File contains no assassination records and probably no EWUs, with the possible
exception af the following records:

Brom Category VII: nos, 496, 498, 499, $00, 510

Doc. rio, 496 is directly relevant for potential future leads, The document is a memorandum

dated February.7, 1974, Does, 498 is of interest regarding the Mafla, Teamsters, and Hoffa.

Docs, 499:500; $10 regard allegations concerning assassination plots.

Otherwide, the Denied Documents file contains background information on JA, medical records, signed
Special Clearance forms, administrative personnel information, information from denied FOLA requests,



13-00000

and various memoranda relating to different conversations between JA and Agency officers on.a wide
varlety of ishuds.

‘The Partial Releases File contains no assassination records and no EHUs. This file contains OSS
background isiformation, OS files, administrative personnel information, and medical records. I see no
need to designate arly documents as assassination records from the set.


13-00000

MEMORANDUM CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
RELEASE IN FULL
September 12, 1998 ne 2000 !
To: Laura Dank
Executive Director
ce: Bob Scared
CIA Team Leader

From: Michelle Combs hte Combo

Associate Director for Research and Review
Subject: CIA-IR-04 Records of James Jesus Angleton

Many stories exist about the records created and maintained by James J. Angleton,
Chief of Counterintelligence, over his thirty-year reign and about their reported
destruction after his retirement. The Review Board asked the CIA to search for any
records maintained by Angleton still extant or to provide records showing the
destruction or incorporation of records indentified as Angleton’s. In response, the
Directorate of Operations provided three memoranda dated November 23, 1976,
August 5, 1977, and November 29, 1979 that record the CIA’s review of Angleton’s
counterintelligence files. These memoranda show that after a review of the records, a
small percentage were incorporated into the files of the Directorate of Operations.
Other records, either duplicates or not worthy of retention, were destroyed. The review
process took several years to accomplish. The Directorate of Operations did not
provide destruction records to the Review Board. Thus, CIA reported that any extant
records, once known as Angleton’s are no longer identifiable or retrievable as a separate
collection. The memoranda describing Angleton’s files are being processed for the JFK
Collection at the National Archives. The CIA provided these three memoranda ina
classified form with their response to CIA-IR-04.

In addition, the Review Board staff examined the Mangold v. CIA Freedom of
Information Act files consisting of seven redwells totaling approximately 18 inches. The
redwells are organized by “tabs” which they can describe as follows:

Tab A:. copies of published newspaper and magazine clippings that have been
released in full. No assassination records were designated.

Tab B: copies of published newspaper articles, the texts of which have been
released in full. No assassination records were designated.



13-00000

Tab C: documents about Angleton from the 1940's, including his career with the
Office of Strategic Services (OSS). No assassination records were designated.

Tab D: on December 11, 1978, the Washington, DC-based law firm of Duncan,
Brown filed a Freedom of Information Act request on behalf of James Angleton in
conjunction with his anticipated testimony before the House Select Committee on
Assassinations. All records related to this matter, documents numbered 94-230, are
designated assassination records unless they are already a part of the CIA sequestered
collection. This redwell also contains Angleton’s personnel evaluation reports. The
Review Board staff reviewed these reports for probative information but they were not
designated as assassination records.

Tab E: documents previously released to Edward J. Epstein in response to a
request for book reviews from CIA’s internal journal Studies in Intelligence. These
documents are all copies of book reviews from Studies in Intelligence on issues related
to intelligence. No assassination records were designated.

Tab F: documents previously released to Henry Hurt in response to a request for
documents concerning Alexander Orlov. Most of the documents are newspaper articles
and reprints of Senate testimony. No assassination records were designated.

Tab G: documents previously released to A. Doppelt on behalf of The Reader's
Digest in response to a request for documents concerning Nicholas Shadrin. These
documents include a speech by Director of Central Intelligence Stansfield Turner,
testimony by Captain Nikolai Fedorovich Artamonov (a pseudonym for Shadrin)
before the Committee on Un-American Activities on September 14,1960, a transcript of
a Panorama Show on Artamonov, and extensive correspondence from his wife to
various U.S. Goverment officials about Shadrin’s disappearance. No assassination
records were designated.

Finally, the Review Board staff examined the Denied Documents and Partial Releases
files for Mangold v. CIA. The Denied Documents file contains background information
on Angleton, medical records, signed Special Clearance forms, administrative personnel
information, information from denied Freedom of Information Act requests, and
various memoranda relating to different conversations between Angleton and CIA
officers on a wide variety: of issues. Documents numbered 496, 498, 499, 500, and 510
were designated assassination records unless they already exist in the CLA sequestered
collection.


13-00000

The Partial Releases File contains additional records on Angleton such as Office of
Strategic Services background information, Office of Security files, administrative
personnel information, and medical records. No assassination records were designated.

e:\combs \cia-ir04.wpd
File 4.20.1, 4.20.4, and 4.50.



13-00000

(Co. TRCIAL Cor LT CTIONS — fas
RELEASE IN FULL ~
2000 Bes a) 24 August 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Laura Denk
Executive Director, ARRB

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson,
JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT: CIA-IR-04, Disposition of Angleton Files

1. The following is responsive to referent request.

2. The ARRB staff requested that the Agency provide an
explanation of the disposition of the files of James J.
Angleton, Chief, Counter-Intelligence Staff, following his
retirement from the Agency in 1975.

3. Research on the question determined the following.
After Angleton’s departure, his files were incorporated
within the files of the CI Staff and the Directorate of
Operations (DO). Per three memoranda dated 23 November
1976, 5 August 1977, and 29 November 1979 respectively,
these files were reviewed and incorporated into the DO
records system. Items that were duplicates or not worthy of
retention were destroyed. The memoranda describe the CI
file collection under Angleton and the process that was
followed. to incorporate significant and non-duplicative
files into the records system. Because the files that were
once known as Angleton’s have been dispersed within the DO
records, they are no longer identifiable as a collection.

4. The three memoranda are classified and have been
made attachments hereto. They have been included within the
JFK collection for review, processing and release to the
National Archives.

J. Barry Harrelson



13-00000

| A!
ADMINISTRATIVE INTERUAE-USE—-ONEY

LECTIONS {

att cal

5 August 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 7

FROM: Leslie S. Raty
Deputy Chief, IMPG

SUBJECT: “processing of Documents by the Analysis Unit
in CY Staftr

i. This will confirm the conclusions of a
discussion held on 26 July 1977 between the members of
the CI Staff Analysis Unit and the undersigned.

2. It was the understanding of the ISS team that
surveyed the records of CI Staff that the Analysis Unit
would process information found in the Staff which had
not been previously processed into the records system.
It would compare files opened by CI Staff with files
already opened in the central system consolidating them
where duplication existed and registering unique files
centrally when warranted. It would also process unique
documents found in the staff which had not been
previously processed. The survey team recognized,
however, that the CI Staff held literally thousands of
documents which were duplicates of documents already
processed for the central system for other DDO
components. These included non-record or carbon copies

DOC. MICRO. SER.

DEC 161992 _ “Sns/asb
MICROFILMED

Kx—-0 ft 77

s Avg 777
GTV- 673-00!



13-00000

of cables and dispatches and memorandums for which CL
Staff was only an information addressee. These the

team did not believe warranted reprocessing. Where
these documents are an integral part of a file being
,integrated into or consolidated with a duplicate file

in the central system the documents should be retained °
in the official file but not be reprocessed
individually.

Distribution:
Orig -. CI/RA
1 - IP/DMS
IP/PB
DC/IMPG
CI/RMO

Bee
to



13-00000

23 Hoy 876

weer.
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Counterintelligence Craft

FROM A Charles A. Briggs
Chief, Information Services Staff
SUBJECT : CI Staff Records Study
REFERENCE : Memorandum for the Record dated 4 February 1976,

Subject: Meeting with Chief, CI Staff, from
Chief, Information Services Group

A. PURPOSE AND SCOPE

1. _. At thé request of Chief, CI Staff, an ISS Analyst Team -
has worked with the CI chad to:

a. Conduct a study of CI Staff's records holdings,
records keeping practices and problems.

b. Develop recommendations for bringing CI Staff's
twenty-five year accumulation of compartmented and sensitive
records and files undér control of the DDO Central Records
System.

c. Design methods for recording sensitive information
in the DDO Central Records System to. provide leads to CI
hahha tena while providing appropriate protection.

d. Coordinate systems development activity needed to
help CI Staff accomplish the recommended objectives.

2. The ISS Team surveyed the.CI Staff's records holdings
to determine how these records relate to the DDO Central Records
System. All records being held at Headquarters were reviewed; a
sampling of the material being,.held at the Records Center was
reviewed.

3. The ISS team reviewed current rere.ds hewcling practirr”
to measure records traffic and ascertain that material was being

properly processed into the DDO Central Records System.

B. FINDINGS

1. The records currently being maintained by CI Staff to
support its existing organization are generally well organized
and for the most part, properly maintained. There are cases where

3
—S 5-6 RE T ER —EMPRET-Ch BLOONS


13-00000

official files have not been opened and records are not being
processed into the DDO Central Records System because the material
is considered too sensitive. Procedures for processing this
material into the records system are being developed.

.

2. CI Staff has accumulated several ‘hundred feet of
files that contain a mixture of record and non-record material.
Many of these files are fragmented, reflecting previously divided
or parallel responsibilities among CI Staff, and in some cases,
other DDO components. There are many files, and many documents
within files, particularly CI Staff memoranda, codeword material,
sensitive liaison correspondence, etc., which have never been
processed into the records system.» Some of these files, especially
those being held at the Records Center, are ambiguously identified.
Some of the documents in these files are completely unrelated to the
subject of the file. The files that have a continuing operational
value should be pulled together and the records in the files indexed
and abstracted in accordance with existing procedures. The files
that no longer have an operational value should be retired in their
present form. While it is not necessary to perform in-depth indexing
of these dormant records, it is important that the names of people
with whom the Agency has been operationally involved be identified
in the records system. Files that contain background, reference,
and working papers are being held but apparently are not being used.
The ISS recommendations for disposition of the files, including the
destruction of much material_in accordance with approved records
schedules and the retirement. or transfer of other holdings to
more appropriate components, are contained in Annex A.

3. There are a number of policy and management files
that should be established for the documents that reflect the
Staff's plans, policies and procedures. The documents that provide
‘this type of information are currently buried in miscellaneous files
and cannot be retrieved, in an organized manner. .

4. There are several card indexes being held by CI Staff.

These indexes do not reflect current Staff needs nor do they
meet the indexing criteria established for the DDO Records System.
They are filled with extraneous information such as the.names of .
authors of CI Staff papers. CI/Research and Analysis Group maintains
an index of 270,000 3x5 cards that provides access by name to its
extensive document holdings. The cards in this index contain a
name and document reference but no biographic data to facilitate
identification. Many of the cards.should be purged, but there is

. insufficient data on the cards themselves to make a judgment. These
indexes should not be integrated into the Records System. The names
can ‘be indexed into the system directly from the documents that
warrant processing into the central system.

e


13-00000

S. Some matcrial is considered too sensitive to be processed
by the Central Records System. There are names that cannot be
disclosed during a routine name trace because of the personality's
notoriety or operational significance. There are documents which
require special handling to protect sensitive sources and the CI
Staff's interest in certain cases and subjects.

c. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS

1. Annex A identifies the. files ‘being held in each CI Staff
office and the Records Center and contains recommendations for their
disposition. A considerable number of these files should be analyzed
to ensure that records are properly filed and identified in. the DDO
Central Records System. Miscellaneous files such as background,
reference, and working papers that do not contain record material
need not be processed into the records system. CI Staff should review
them to determine their utility and destroy those that are no longer
used. The following recommendations on staffing, computer ‘support,
and space should help to support integration of the appropriate
records into the central system. ~

a. Staffing

(1). A project team consisting .of ISS personnel
should be established to analyze the record material and
perform the necessary codification, abstracting, indexing,
cross-referencing and cross-filing. Experience or training as
an ISS analyst is a prerequisite for processing this material.
The age and diversity of the material will present unusual
problems. Experience with both the older records and the
facilities provided by the records system to support document
processing is desirable.

= (2) There is a total of 418 feet of record material
to be analyzed and it will take an estimated ll. 9 man years
oadee on the following statistics.

# pages & pages # documents
per foot : per document analyzed per hour
2000 21/2 7

(3) The project team should consist of four ISS
analysts. Three of these analysts should process records
full time. The fourth should be a senior analyst who can
supervise the project and process records half time. The
senior-analyst must have a practical knowledge of the
records system, especially the older records, and the
CI Staff's past records keeping practices.

4S
SECRET


13-00000

vueunnd

b. Computer Support

(1) It is recommended that a Video Display Terminal
and a remote printer be installed in the CI Staff area. This
display terminal and associated printer will enable the analysts
to communicate directly with the computerized data base containing
name, file, and document status information. ‘These terminals
will be used to process the old records into the system and to
perform current records processing needs.

(2) It is recommended that two Four-Phase Data
Entry terminals be installed in the CI Staff area to allow analyst
to key new index and abstract records. It is estimated that
somewhat less than 50% of the documents to be analyzed will
require processing. Using an average of two index and one
abstract records per document, approximately 500,000 records
will have to be keyed. Remote installation at the analysts‘ -
working area will eliminate the need to mail documents to IP
Electronic Data Input Section for processing.

c. Space

A’secure area will be needed as work space for
the analysts, computer and data entry terminals, and document
storage. The CI/Research and Analysis Group's vault, Room 2B-28
is recommended. It is large enough to accommodate a team of
four analysts. Its proximity to ODP's Special Computer
Center and IP/Electronic Data Input Section facilitates computer
and data entry terminal installation. Also, a large portion of
the files to be analyzed are already stored in this area.

2. The responsibility for maintenance of files that are
split between two or more CI Staff components should be assigned
to a single component and the material in the filés consolidated.

3. The CI/RMO should establish Policy and Management files
to provide a repository for the records that document the plans,
policies, and procedures of the CI Staff. Annex A, Attachment 3
identifics such files deemed necessary by the. ISS survey team.

4, The senior analyst who supervises the ISS team should
also serve permanently as the CI Staff analyst to perform four basic
functions:

a. Process CI material currently being handled by
the IP/Data Management Section.

b. Ensure that files are properly opened and maintained.

c. Serve as a records referent to provide advice on how
sensitive cases and projects can be processed into the records
system in a manner that protects the privacy of sources and
methods. Sb


13-00000

d. ‘Analyze and process current as well as backlogged,
sensitive material, (including CI Operational Letters and
ZRTAFFY) into the Central Records System. Gerace

Ss. A computerized information system should be developed
to enable CI Staff to maintain a central index of names that are
considered too sensitive to record in the DDO Central Records System.
Indexes to sensitive names are currently being held by individual
case officers and it is difficult to account for the ‘names and the
documents they are identified in. A compartmented computer file will
enable CI Staff to identify readily their sensitive name holdings
and account for the associated documents. .-

6. The system should also allow DDO main index name trace
requests to be compared with the sensitive name file. The fact that
another component or agency is conducting.a trace on a name considered
sensitive by CI Staff concerns the Staff. This type of comparison
will provide a-mechanism for alerting the Staff to outside interest.

CI Staff personnel can then take appropriate action (such as contacting
the requester).

7. All processing that involves these names must be done
in a manner that affords maximum security. Annex B contains a
proposal for developing a computerized system for handling these
sensitive names. ‘However, ISS is considering other alternatives
for meeting this requirement.

D. ALTERNATIVES
i All solutiohs to the CI Staff's record keeping problems

explored by the ISS team involved processing the appropriate
holdings into the DDO Central Records System. Failure to process

‘the material into the Central Records System means running the

risk that, in any investigation, or in response to Freedom of
Information Act or Privacy Act inquiries, information will be
overlooked or brought forth piecemeal to erode the Agency's credibility
or bring into question management's control over information
collection and exploitation. The following solutions were explored:
a. The various card indexes being held by CI Staff
could be entered into the records system to provide access
to the CI files. The files could continue to be held in
hard copy or converted to microform to reduce storage require-
ments. However, these indexes do not contain the biographic
data necessary to facilitate positive identification during
a name trace of the central system. The files themselves
must also be reviewed and processed to eliminate fragmentation,
incorrect titles and filing, etc.

c7

SECRET


13-00000

b: The existing records could be sent to IP/Data Manage-
ment Section for processing into the records system. IP/DMS
has the records expertise and the computer terminals necessary
to support records processing. This approach would necessitate
moving the records from’CI Staff to IP/DMS which could present
security problems. It would also impede CI access to the
material while it was being processed. Because the IP/DMS
analysts have other work to perform, the CI material would
have a secondary priority which would defer the completion of
the project.

EB. | RECOMMENDATIONS :

The ISS Team's recommendations are that:

1. . CI Staff's record material should be integrated into the.
DDO Central Records System.

2. A project team should be established to expedite this
records integration,

3. Computer terminals should be installed in CI Staff to

-facilitate records processing.

4. Fragmented files should be consolidated and responsibilities
for them fixed.

Sie Policy and management files should be opened.

6.. A computer system should be developed to allow names
of sensitive personalities to be recorded in the central. system
for access by authorized CI Staff personnel and to enable CI Staff
to monitor interest in these personalities. Controls for sensitive
files should be developed on a case by case basis.

7. A scnior ISS analyst should be assigned to CI Staff to
handle current records processing needs.

8. Although the ISS Team did not attempt to make recommen-
dations on altering the design of the DDO Records System,
they did see a need to improve the system's facilities for
handling sensitive material. CI Staff is not the only component
that deals with sensitive material, and other components like
CI. Staff tend to control their sensitive material outside the
central system. To ensure that sensitive material is accounted
for in the central system, methods for protecting sensitive holdings
must be designed into a future records system.

(Gf Charis A. Brigns
Charles A. Briggs
4°

“S-E-€R-E-T


13-00000

Subject: CI Staff Records Study

Attachments:
1. Annex A - Survey of the Active Records of the
Counterintelligence Staff

Attachment 1: Records requiring processing
Attachment 2: Sensitive records requiring special
processing
Attachment 3: Recommendations for Policy and
. Management files

2. Annex B - Computer system proposal for handling
CI Staff's sensitive names

DDO/ISS/SG/AD/£LEichorn:bg (19 November 1976) X7371
Distribution:
Original § 1 - C/CI (w/att)
2 - C/ISs (w/o att)
1 - DC/ISS (w/o att)
1 - EPS/EG (w/o att)
1 - ISPG (w/o att)
1 - C/IMG (w/att)
es 1 - C/IPG (w/o att)
‘ 1 - C/SG (w/o att)
1 - C/SG/AD (w/o att)
1 - Project File (FLE) (w/att)
1 - Reading Board (w/o att)
1-

EPS/EG (Mr. Glenn Brown) (w/o att)

SECRET


13-00000 |

CI 146-79

MEMOR! Chief, Information Management staff

ATTENTICK : Chief, Operations Group

FROM : David fe Blee i 2
Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

SUBJECT : CI Staff Record Study

REFERENCE - :° Information Services Staff Nemorandum,

76-572, dated 23 November 1976

1. The IMS Analyst Team assigned to C1 Staff has
completed a little over two years of an-estimated 3.4
years' assignment to the Staff. During this period
much of the original 417 feet of Staff unprocessed
records have been reviewed by either the INS Analysts
or CI Staff personnel. The Analysts recently completed
the processing of over 2,000 soft files which are the
responsibility of our Technical Branch. This task was
gone in a most expeditious manner. We remain thankful
for the caliber of personnel you have been sending to
the Staff. (C)

2. In order to more fully understand how best to
complete the remaining unprocessed records we have
compiled 2 listing of those records reviewed by the ISS
Analyst Team in 1976, but not yet completed. We estimate
that 246 feet of files have been reviewed by the Task
Force and another 81 feet by CI Staff personnel, leaving
roughly 90 feet of unprocessed material yet to be reviewed
and possibly incorporated into the DO Central Records
System. Much of the paper reviewed by CI Staff personnel
were found to be duplicate and were destroyed. Those
documents which had to be processed were given to the
IMS Analysts for processing. (U)



3. The following files remain to be reviewed and
possibly processed: (S)

LOCATION

C/CcI

C/CI

c/CI

c/ci
(Records
Center)

CI/A/IS
(Records
Center)

- C/C1/0G :

FILE DESCRIPTION
Wiscellanecus Policy,

Operational, and
Subject Files

Operation (CANARY/-
Soviet Contacts -

Misc Subject Files

ZRTAFFY Chrono

Vogel-Krog: vu
Case - The X-Y-2

FOOTAGE
6

i

Case - REWINDOW Project-

(NOBEITER Case -
BCH =
ERP. ‘?Project -

ZRCHEST Project -
eae Project -
JIKE/PORTIO/HAITI
JHMILKY? Case -

TKIN File

(Grou
Covers périod 1944-
1969.

Misc. Liaison Files -
Sensitive portions

of 201 and Operations
Files.

1

xisting files.
Open Subjegt
files. Integfate
into 201 files.

Sensitive -
Restricted -
None in DO
Records System.

IMS Analyst
processing
required.

Some sensitive.

S$ X 8 Card Index
in C1/A/IS.

Review files.
Scme material
integrate into
PMF and other
official files.
Obtain file
number, register
crypt. Index
individuals
involved in
case.

Processing
required.



13-00000

eee - uit’ Btece jar iat
LOCATION FILE DESCRIPTION FOOTAGE REMARKS
g- CI/A/T COMINT Case Files. ‘2° Review for

processing into
official files.
h. CI/A/1S F Project 9 Some official
documents.
Includes
approximately
10,000 Ss X 8
index cards.
Official subject
file 100-006-113
already indexed
- but should be .
Fe é reviewed for
future retention.
Request IMS
advice on how
to proceed with
this réview.”

o

i. CI/A/IS Sensitive CIA/ 30 Contains
LIAISON Files. memoranda -
: Very Sensitive -
None in DO
Records System.

4. In addition to the above, a member of your
Staff has been reviewing and consolidating the (HEAT)
Project. When the review is completed we hope to —
receive a recommendation on whether or not this material
should be processed. This project is sensitive and
contains some 35 feet of unprocessed paper. Fresent
plans, agreed to by members. r_ Staff, call for the
same kind of review of the & HOG) Naterial (Item e)
prior to processing by the INS Analysts assigned to the
Staff. (S)



5. Unfortunately the time required to complete
the above will have to be a rough estimate. At times
the Analysts have been able to move rapidly through
the files, while at other times they have run into
records problems and the work has been slow. They **
have just begun the processing of Item i above. This’
is a compartmented codeword file and every document
will have to be reviewed and most processed into the
DO Central Records System (STAR). We believe there
will be considerable indexing to do and it may take
from 6 to 8 months to complete this project. The time
remaining to complete everything will depend upon the _
decision made concerning the (WHEAT} Project, the (GROUNDHOG)
Project, and the (LCMAYFONI) Material. These three files
constitute 66 feet of paper. We will work closely with
members of your Staff on these decisions. (S)

David H. Blee

DDO/C/CI/A/1S/Bradley}: as 29 March 1979 R-9429°

Distribution: '
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
= 1 - C/CI Chrono
1 -.CI/A/IS Chrono

