# 104-10433-10167

## Page 1

104-10433-1016

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

#?

1it)

4/17/68

CODE

hir.

RoBen

TELETYPI

URGENT

MT .

G. C. Moore

Griffith

Atkinson

TO LEGAT SANTO DOMINGO

VIA TÉLETYPE

FROM DIRECTOR FBE

12390

APR 111968

ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER FING, JU.

ENCIPHERED

REUNTELA NUMBERS TWO AND FOUR, DATID APRIL LIGHT LAST-

JESTININT DATA IN BETELS WAS INCORPORATED INTO LHI AND

FURNISHED WHITE HOUSE, ATTORNEY GENERAL AND INTERSTED

GOVERIMENT AGENCIES BY LETTER APRIL TEN INSTANT.

IN VIEN ON NATURE AND INORMITY OF ALECATIONS MADE 8Y

HERNAN HENRIQUEZ LORA CONCERNINO THIS MATTER, LEGAT MUST ENDEAVOR

TO VERIFY OR DISPROVE SUCH ALLEGATIONS.

PROTOGRAPE OF ONE HERNAN HENRIQUEZ LORA, ALSO KNOW AS

HERNAN HENRIQUEZ URENA LORA, BORN OCTOBER TWENTY YOUR, FIFTHEN,

AT SAN DIEGO, CUBA, OR BANTIAGO DE CUBA, CUBA, BEING FORHARDED

SEPARATELY.

REC 1 44-38211-498

BUREAU FILES REVEAL ABOVE INDIVIDUAL I8 DOMINICAN CITIZEN

APR 12 1968

AND HIS PARENTS WERE MAX AND GUARINA HENRIQUE.

a - Torolga Llalson tait (route through sor soft

105168197

Rap Brown)

100-256080 (se Carichsol)

Ro 152 70543387--nan Henriques

Lor!

MAIL ROOM

TEL

---

## Page 2

13-00000

TELETYPE TO LEGAT SANTO DOMINGO

ABSASSINATION ON MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

1(1)

5(3)

THIS IIPORMATION HAS CLASSIVIED "BECHAT" BY CIA..

CIA ON AUGUST NINE, BIXTY BIS, ADVIBED IT HAD NOT HAD ANY

6)(6) OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN

AND ITE TILES

INDICATED HE HAN "YKRY UNSAVORY REPUTATION. "

ADDITIONAL, PERTINENT INTORMATION CONCEANIRO HENRIQUE LORA

WILL BI FORWARDED BY AIRTIE.

NOTE !

Logat in retols roportod Henriques Lora had

volunteered a third party had over heard & conversation in

Banto Domingo between two Dominican communists in which

1t was allogod that Stokely Carmichael and a. Rap Brown

advocated the denth of Martin Luther King and King'e

sanassination Tould beneflt the cause of black violence.

8 = V68 11 15 58 bK, eB

---

## Page 3

13-00000

#!

1et)

SCAD

4113/68

CODI

TELETYPE

URGENT

1

Mr.

ROSOn

G. C.

MOOrA

Gr1ff1th

Mr. Atkinson

TO LEGAT SANTO DOMINGO

VIA TÉLETYPE

FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

Miukkend.

12320 t

19R 17961

ASSABSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, MA.

ENCIPHERED

REURTELS NUMBIAS THO AND YOU DATED APHIL FIGHT ISTE

PERTINENT DATA IN RETELS VAS INCORPORATED INTO LEN AND

FURNISHED WAITE HOUSE, ATTORNEY CENTRAL AND INFERESTED

GOVERNANT AGENCIS HY LITTER APRIL TEN INSTANT.

IN VIEW OF NATURE AND INONMITY OF ALLECATIONS MADE BY

HERNAN HENRIQUEY LORA CONCERNING THIS MATTER, LEGAT MUST INDEAVOR

TO VERIFY OR DISPROVE SUCH ALLEGATIONS.

PHOTOGRAPH OF ONS HERNAR HENRIQUEZ LORA, ALSO KNOWN AB

HERNAN HENRIQUET URINA LORA, BORN OCTORES TWENTY FOUR, FIFTEEN,

AT SAN DIEGO, CUBA, ON. SANTIAGO DE CUBA, CUBA, BEING FORVARDED

SEPARATELY.

RE: + 44-38261-498

BURSAU FILES REVEAL ABOVE INDIVIDUAL IS DOMINICAN CITIZI

10 APR 12 1968

AND HIS PARENTS WERE MAX AND QUARINA ENRIQUET.

CIA ON APRIL SEVINTERN, SIXTY TWO, ADVISED ABOVE HENRIQUE?

LORA WAS CITIZEN OU DOMINICAN REPUBLIC WHO HAD BELY TRAVELING ON

CUBAN PASSPORT NUBER ONE ONE TWO SEVEN DATED JANUARY TURNTY FIVE,

TONY NIS. IN QUA MIS BIS THOSE WIDE IS NO HiS

1 - Foreiga l1a1s0n Unit (route through los rouler?

1

• 105168197

- 1000446080

hut

---

## Page 4

13-00000

TELETYPE TO LEGAT SANTO DOMINGO

RIS ABSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, J.

MADRID, SPAIN. ACCORDINO TO CIA, EZ HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN BOXE

PRO-CASTEO AND ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES IN MADRID DURING PRECEDING

THO YHARS AND WAS SUSPECTED OF BEING A MTIBER ON CUBAN OTIO.

THIS INTORMATION WAS CLASSIVIID "BECHI BY CIA..

CIA ON AUGUST NINE, BIXTY BIX, ADVIBED IT HAD NOT BAD ANY

OPTRATIONAL INTERENT IN MINAN EXTRIQUEZ LONA AND ITS FILES

INDICATED HE HAN "YERY UNBAVORY INFUTATIOU."

ADDYTIONAL PERTINENT INTORNATION CONCERNIYG HENRIQUES LORA

WILL BY FORVANDED HY ALRTIE

NOTI&

Laget In rotoln reported Henriques Lora had

volunteered " third party had over heard a conversatlon

Santo Doningo between two Dominican connuniatu in which

1t wan alloged that Stokoly Carnichael and H. Rap Brow

advocated the denth of Martin Luther Ling and Ling'a

assassination vould benefit the cause of blach violence.

---

## Page 5

13-00000

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

Memorandum

DATE: April 17, 1968

RON: 8. Jo Papichyu

UBJKCT:

Toleet

- Unloort

Mot.!

Hishop

Casper

Callahan

Conced.

Fall

Gole.

Sallin an

Tarad

Trotter

Tale, Foot -

Helmen

Milies

5(3)

2(3).

(6)

(3)

(6)

(3)

16)

MURKIN

Central Intelligence Ageucy (CIA),

furnished the followlog to the Liaison Agent on April 17, 1968:

• Cla source, characterized as being very reliable,

advised that on of about Apsll 15, 1968, an Individual 1dent1-

£y1og himself as

called

=* the d

office'ül the

2nd

asked to bo

as soon as possible.

(It should

be noted that reference

1s being made to the office of the

Ho man asked to furnish his local

address 10

and he refused to do so.

He became very

agltated and then left.

So far he has not returned to the

sforementioned office.

CIA's source stated that

answers, the general description of the suspect in the instant

Case, as reported 1n newspapers.

volunteered information Indicating that

he applied ford

a calliorale, on

June 16, 1964, and that he registered as a member of the

on February 21, 1968.

He has

Land d

He was borD April 8,

193Z.1A HIasOUr (town not given).

CIA'& source described

him as 5'10"; 155 pounds; brown half, receding hatrline on

both sides; a gear, not prominent, about two and one half

inches long across the center of his forehead. His most

outstanding characteristic vas his gild, described an "dis

concerting zod reseabling & srimace HEC

41-5441-2404

adylaed that this same informatloe.

has been

given to our legat, ou

sources la Tokyo to establiah the a televablo

Il this lend washes out, CIA mould llko to be advisode

ACTION:

The above intormation la belng directed

to the

attention of the Civil Rights Section of the

General Investigative Divis100.

1 - ME. McGoWa (LODE)

1

LtA1300

• Mr. Papich

---

## Page 6

13-00000

ROM

UBJECT:

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

Memorandum

Talwar.

Do us

: Mr. Do Jo Brennan, 550/2

DATE: Apr1l 17, 1968

3. Jo Papichy

-HURKIN

Rishop

Carpees

Collahon

conrad.

Fair.

Colo

H360n

Sello an

Taval -

Trollor -

Tale, P.c0n.

Holmas.

Conty

Militie

Rohard Ober, Contral Intelligence Agency (CIA),

furnished the followlog to the Liaison Agent on Apr1l 17, 1968:

A ClA source, Charecterizad as bally very rellabio.

aslod to bo signed on a ship as 5000 as posaible. (It should

ba noted that reference 1s bolng made to the offico of the l.s.

NatIonal Maritino UOlOD.) Ho vas asked to furalah bia local

address 11 Tolyo, and he refused to do so. le became very

'agitatod and then left. So far ho has not returned to tha

aforementioned 011100.

CIA's source stated that Richards.

answers, the general description of the suspect ln the lostant

CREO, no reported 10 newspapers.

Richards volunteered information Indicating that

he applied for seaman's papara 11 San Pedro, Californla, on

He has Social Security number 562-16-5078. and U. S. Coast

Guard Identtlying.

document 12711-782

him as 5'10"; 155 pounde; brown balr, receding hairline on

both sides; a scar,

not prominent, about two and one half

Inches long across tbe center of his forehead. His nost

outstandlag characteristic was hin gril,, describad su "dis.

concertInE und regenbilng a gIlnecere!

52404

given to our legat, Tokyo.

I1 this lond washes out, CIA would 11ke to be adilande.

ACTION:

The above Information 1s being directed

to the

attention of the Civil Rights Section of the

General Investigative Divielon..

SUP:elb 2. - (1)

1 - Mr. McGowan (Long)

Mr. Papich'

..

---

## Page 7

13-00000

пая оны. 04а, по. 88

UNITED STATES G

ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

iNT. "o Co sullivan

FROM :MI. J. A. S1200

SUBJECT: NURKIN

• 113

DATE: Apx11 22, 1968

olson -

•Loach.

Hone -

Bishop -

Carpet —

Collaron .

Conrod -

Fall

Sulliran -

Tavol -

Troller -

(6) 13)

At 6:35 pm 4/22/68,

Central

Intelligence Agency (CIA), furnished the following

Information to Night Supervisor James F. icGuire by telephone:

14 6

(b) F3)

(616)

(b)(1)

(D)6)

[bU

further, he does not know of any factual

connection of these individuals

with the king case.

He said CIA

sOurCes were trylng to develop this matter further. He also

advised that CIA would send the FBI a written communication

concerning this matter on 4/23/68.

At 9:10 pm 4/22/68,

orally advised

that &

check had been made with the

determined that u

(D)

C'pa

JFM: che (7)

1 - Mr. Sullivan

I - It Helgeson

BAPR 3C1008

7.

REC-48

Mr.

JoA.51z00

Mr o

Papich

- HI.

J.F.MCGulre

14--5861-117

CONTINUED -OVER

AHR 24 1968

---

## Page 8

13-00000

Memorandum to Hr. Sullivan

RE: MURKIN

the assassination of Martin Luther King.

indicated that

the entire information may be & complete hoax; however, CIA will

adviso FBI 11 any additional data comes to their attention.

ACTION:

The above Information was orally furnished to Mr. Helgeson,

General Investigativo Division.

---

## Page 9

13-00000

1 10

RAT 1008 !

ADA BAM.

та. 88

UNITED STATES & ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

HI. W. C. Sullivan

wes,

FROM I-d 10 35200418

SUBJECT: MURKIN

• 113

181)

DATE: Ap11] 22, 1968

50l80n -

DeLooch.

Matt co

Bishop .

Casper -

Callahan .

Contad -

Felt -

Sale.

Roder -

Sullivan -

Tovel -

Trotter -

nicotis

At 6:35 pm 4/22/68,

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), furnished the following

Information to Night Supervisor James I. McGuire by telephone:

CIA sources In Panama have reported two Anerican citizens

'aro being detained in Panams City, Panama, at the request of the

Costa Rican authorities. Allegedly, they

are being detained in

connection with the assassination of Martin Luther King.

Individuals are Identifled as Tou Holman, born 1/17/44 In New York.

Wolman has Paseport Number 1085474, 1ssued 1/29/68, and his

permanent residence le shown as 30

larrys lane, Pleasantville,

New YOrk.

The other Individual is Identified an Douglas Harry

Hulbard,

Passport Number 330926.

Hulbard 13 described as & former

soldier "ho has returned to Panama to be marriad.

CIa did not

have any further descriptive data regarding Hulbard.

These two Individuals were traveling in & Chevrolet,

License Number 23GH19,

Motor Number 13 387 13 113711.

The vehicle

and Ilcense plates could not be further described by CIA. According

to CIA, Holnan's passport indicates he had entered and departed

El Salvador and Honduras on 4/17/68; Nicaragua on 4/18/68.

advised he has no indication why the Costa

Rican suthorittes have requested the detention of the above

described individuals.

Further, he does not know of any factual

connection of these Individuals with the King case. He said CIA

sources were trylng to develop this matter further.

He also

advised that CIA would send the FBI a written communication

concerning this matter on 4/23/68.

At 9:10 pm 4/ 22/68,

CIA, orally advised

that & check had been made

with the Costa Rican authorities and

determined that Costa Rica has no information regarding the above

mentioned individuals; that Costa Rica did not request Panamanian

authorities to hold these individuals, that they have no request

Iron any American authorities to detain them; and that they have

JFM:che (7)

1 = Mr. Sullivan

- Mr. Rosen

- clan

H0d9020.

GRADUATI

REL 48 CONTINUED OVER

44-36861-1685

1

• Mr. J.4.51z00

Papich

0. AHR 24 1968

- Mr. J.F.McGulre

---

## Page 10

13-00000

Menorandun to Mr. Sullivan

RE:

MURKIN

no knowledgo of any connection between these individuals and

the assassInatiOn ot hartIn Luther king.

indicated that

the entire information may bo a complete hoax; however, CIA will

advise FBI 11 any additional data comes to their attention.

ACTION: •

The above information was orally furnished to li. Helgeron,

General Investigative DIVisIOS.

M

---

## Page 11

13-00000

але О1Н. 040. пд. 88

UNITED STATS COVERNMENT

Memorandum

DOSSED

r.1111

: 8r. #. C. Sullivan

DATE: 4/28/68

ra.

: J. A- S1200

T: MURKIN

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), advised

thie date that em

Germany, had advised the American Embassy, Addis Ababa,

Ethiopia, that ho believed he had seen an individual

whom he

thought to be Erie Starvo Galt at the

(b)B)

on the afternoon of 4/23/68.

Because he thought the

1nd1u1dual looked 11k0 Galt he made an effort to get some

(8) 6)

Information concerning him. He found he was rogistered at the

boted as

(0) /2

The

hdid notknow 1f

had

registered at the hotel as an American.

In conversation with

the .

-learned that

was employed by the

(adress unknown) and was en route to

Bufiles contain no referencos to

or the

(6) %5

CIA,

advised that Bufiles contain no

IEfErENCES tO

0F

ACTION:

(D) (6)

None. For information.

This is being referred to

the General Investigative Division.

JHX: bET

(8)

то

I food food

M7 .

Sullivan

Мт .

Rosen

Мт .

51700

Мт. G.С. Моогв

Mr.

MCGONES

Мг.

ic Donough

Kavanagh

REC- 31

- 246/

116

6"'

---

## Page 12

13-00000

тотя грем та. !

1014-190

aba apm.

110. ко.88

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

Memorandum

: Hr. W. C. Sulllvan

: J. A. S1z00

iT MURKIN

-..---

.....

DATE: 4/28/68

1 rv.

180. f-00.

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), advised

this date that a german doctor, Klaus Steer, German Director,

Scient1f1c Department, Africa, E: Merck Aktiengesallschast,

STIStaCy, GorMaRY, had advised the American Embassy, Addis ababa.

Ethiopia, that bo belleved he had seen an individual

whom he

thought to be Erie Starvo Galt at the Bristol Hotel, lagos,

Nigeria, on the afternoon of 4/23/68.

Because he thought the

Ind1vidual looked 11ke Galt he made an effort to get some

Information concerning him. He found he was registered at the

hotel as Joo-Huagaque, Room 403, receipt number D52138,

account number 08325: The doctor did not know if Musgague häd

rogistered at the hotel as an American.

In conversation mith

Musgaque the doctor learned that Musgaque was employed by the

W1lder 011 Company (adress unknown) and was en routo to. Harr1

011 Fleld, Nigeria:

Bufiles contain no references to Joe Musgague or the

Wilder 011 ompany.

CIA, was advised that Bufiles contain no

references to Jou Musgaque or Wilder O11 Company.

ACTION:

None.

For information.

This is being referred to

the General Investigativo Division.

JHE: brE

(8)

• 1

Mr.

Mx .

нх .

Mr.

Mr.

1T .

Sullivan

Rosen

$1200

G.C. Moore

MCGOWAD

McDonough

Kavanagh

REC- 31

- 246/

! )

!.:'...

---

## Page 13

13-00000

4029-68

Alstol

Mr. HudsOn

TOs SAC, Washington Flold

Iron: Directos, FBI

MURKIN

b)()•

13.

1(6)

On 1-28-B8, A representative ol CIA advised the

Burenu that o

had advised the American Embassy,

• tant he belleved he had seen an

Individual "hon ho thought to be Eric Starvo Galt at the

I on the afternoon of 4-23-68.

The Individunt ma Identified

Who 18

reportedly no employee of the

/address

unknows).

Tashington Tield, check pausport records for any

Identifying date concerning

•and also attempt to

determine through the Depertuent of State any information

concerning the

which roportedly 1n

operating 11'

Il no information av llable 10

State Departnent rocords regarding ther

determine

whether State Department can obtain thie information

from the

•2m 0AB8Y•

Handle Imediately.

1 • Memphin (1nfo)

it.

111-2440

EX-120 REC 5

APR 30 1968

(5)

NOTIE:

See memorandun from d.

Sizoo to W. C. Sullivan

dated 4-28-68, captioned

"Murkin" JHI: brr.

3

1968

HALL ROO

TELETYPE UNITI

---

## Page 14

13-00000

Do got

D.

4-29-68

Alstol

1 - Mr. Budgon

TO: SAC, Mashington Flold

From: Directos, TBI

MURKI

On 1-28-68, & reprementativo of CIA advined the

Buronu that & German doctor, Klaus Steer, Corman Director,

Solentifie Department, Africe, I. Merch Astlengesellachast,

Enrmstady, Germany, hid advised the American Embassy,

Addle Ababs, Ethlopts, that he belleved he had seen an

Individusl whom he thought to be Irto Starvo Calt at the

BrIstol Hotel, Llgos, Nigeria, on the afternoon of 4- 23-68.

The Individual man Identified an Joe Musgaque, "ho 10

reportedly an.

employee of the Wilder 01l Company (addres

unknown).

Washington field, check pansport records for any

Identifying dat concerning Musgaque; and nino nttempt to

deteruine through the Department of State any Inforution

concerning the "ildir O11 Company, uhich reportedly 1a

operstlug 11 Nigerla. 1f no Information nuntlablo lu

State Department records regarding the Wilder 011 Company,

dotermine whether State Department can obtain this lifornation

Iron the Nigerlan Embassy.

Handle Immediately.

i.d.

1 - Memphin (Info)

=1111-2440

EX-110 REC 5

• APR 30 1968

NOTE:

sea

menorandun

frOm

s1200 to W

C. Sullivan

dated 1-28-68,

captioned

"Hurkin" JHI: brr.

AY 3

1968

HAI HOCKL

TELET + UNIT L

---

## Page 15

13-00000

Quitt b

sot D

SI. Do So Brennas, JIa

So J. Papich

COMMUNIST PARTY CY COLONDIA

INTENNAL SECUHITY - COLOMBIA

Hay 24, 1008

ICTION:

This information w111 be checked out ly 1h0

sovlet Saction Sor any significant

radicators robating to

the movement of fuada throuch sovlat intolligenco chanrels.

This Inforuntion and enclosura are airo belag

dirocted to the attestion of tho tenoral Invostigative lilvision

in tho event to desiro to checs any idontified currency 111l1ze6

by Janes Iarl Isy riatait the attachod liating-

EnclosurE

SJP: C1b

(8)

LEanigas

I. H215311

Murkdo F1lo

LLI1OD

1

- iro lapich

NOT BACOR?

87 Def A 1509

14 DECT 31968

CHOINAD FILED MY

---

## Page 16

13-00000

So Do so Dranian, Ux.

any 23, 1268

So Jo Papich

COME WAS & COURIA

INSURAL SECURITE • COLOMBIA

Tho Contral Intolligenre Agency (CIA) prevsousZy

has furulshed indomation concerning the arrant of tun indi

viduals su Colombia who clandestinoly brought Into the conntzy

Do curroucy siated to bo dolstarad in tha

Communist tariy sa Colonin.

On tiny 21,. 1008, Thocks 12an235in00, Donuty

Cis, bade avnilebio the enclocod liot ci

scrinl numbers of

to currency recoverca by colonian officials.

It should ho notou that the sirot alrit in anch isted

number

she particular deronintion (2-g1; 2175; 3-410;

4$20; 5-360; 6-9110).

ACTION:

Tus infoanation vill to clacked que ly &ix

sorios Saction for any sigmificant indicalous solatind io

¿he rovement of funds through Soviet inteliigenco channel.

This information and enclonice 4ze a100 bolut

dippetod to the attastion os the concil Levestitetive Hivision

in the event no deniio to chock ony ironisfied curenor ntilized

hi Jamos Eard My against the attachod Blotings

Enclosino

(2)

it'o

illf

1

lictenmen

Moлcin C110

Mainen

are lapich

NOT BECORD

DEC

6 1968

5A. DENT JiG0S

RIGINAD FLED

vic...

---

## Page 17

13-00000

ORIONA SONA NO. 10

3020-100 .

8217 6958801710M

838 GA. 11G. N0. 77

UNITED STATES GOV INMENT

•Memoranaum

TO

:

Mr. E. S. Millery

DATE:

November 29, 1973

Filos

• Gian.

ident

FROM : . A. Branigan

SUBJECT:

COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS

Spat

Train

Lagal

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

On November 21, 1973, Mr.

of the

Diract

1):

Central Intelligence Agency personally delivered the attached

press release noting that the captioned committee was sponsoring

a two-day conference at Georgetown University on November 23 and

24 in commemoration of the Tenth Anniversary of President John F.

Kennedy's death.

particularly noted that former

Special Agent William

scheduled to be the moderator

of a panel dealing with

unique investigative techniques.

In the

program Turner is identified as a former FBI Agent, author of

numerous books on investigative techniques.

Among others

appearing on the program are Fred Cook, Marks/Lane, Harold Weisberg

all of whom who have been outspoken critics of the FBI.

The Central Intelligence Agency, according to r

concerned over the appearance oi their ex-employees

Victor, Marchetti and GeorgeXo Toole i

of the conference

Tadvised that his Agency would have coverage

and that he would be happy to pass along any

data developed by their coverage.

ACTION:

•T10:1--0

REGORUS

iNT®

3

(18)(3)

For information.

Anything of pertinence received

will be made a matter of record.

A copy of this

memorandum has been designated for the personnel file of

ex-Agent Turner.

WAB:hkeft:

(5)

REC-89

602-1/2427-3Fa|ub

62-112697

Enclosure

X-112

1

- Personnel File of William

Turner

1

1

E.

hir.

W.

Walsh

E.

S.

Miller

W.

A.

Branigan

FINCLOSUREL

V. DEG 3 1973

5698

— XEROX

V59 1373

55DEO 1500

$FE: 150.90090

---

## Page 18

13-00000

OPTIONAL CORM NO. 19

MAY 1987 019Y

s010-10i •

10. 37

UNITED STATES GOV. RNMENT

Memoranaum

TO

Mr. E. S. Miller ri

DATE: November 29, 1973

amp. Syar.on

Ext. Affoirs -

Filos & Com.

Gon. Inv. -

FROM :

W. A. Branigan

SUBJECT:

COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

Laboratory am

Plan, & Eval.

Зрос. Inv.

Troining

Logal Cour.

Teleptigno Am.

Dirocror

On November 21, 1973, Mr. Raymond Rocca of the

Central Intelligence

Agency personally delivered the attached

press release noting that the captioned committee was sponsoring

a two-day conference at Georgetown University on November 23 and

24 in commemoration of the Tenth Anniversary of President John F.

Kennedy's death.

Mr. Rocca particularly noted that former

Special Agent William Turner was scheduled to be the moderator

of a panel dealing with unique investigative techniques.

In the

program Turner is identified as a former FBI Agent, author of

Among others

nor hon ho have been outpoto orient to to a to abore,

The Central Intelligence Agency, according to Mr. Rocca,

wAS

concerned over the appearance of their ex-employees -

Victot; Marchetti and GeorgeXOToole

MI. Rocca advised that his Agency would have coverage

of the conference

that he would be happy to pass along any

data developed by their coverage.

ACTION:

For information.

Anything of pertinence received

from

Mr. Rocca will

be made a matter of record.

A copy of this

memorandum has been designated for the personnel file of

ex-Agent Turner.

RECORUS

=

1rac06d3r

WAB: hkeft/

(5)

62-112697

Enclosure

front good facil

Personnel File of William

Walsh

Mr.

S.

Miller

A.

Branigan

REC-89

9X-112

62-112697-3F1/45

TUI

ner

ANCLOSUREL

7. DEC 3 1973

559₴

COPY Find

auditica:

XEROX

39 1913

55000 1 3193

DEC 12 195R

*Fredlerki

---

## Page 19

13-00000

8XHNAND MPTATHSTALD. JA.

• FITCUTITE DAIE-N

COMJIIITEE TO INVESTIGATE

ASSASSINATIONS

I520 J0TR STREET, N. I.

WASHINGION, I. C.. 20008 .

(302) 232-2152

RODPET BUTTH

DITHEZOR US ISTANCI

SADATO LEANZ

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:

In ouservance of the tenth anniversary of Fresident Kennedy's deata,

the Committee to Investigate Assassinations is sponsoring a two-day

Conferance at Georgetown University on November 23rd and 24th.

brochure describing the Conference and its progran is attached. As

you will note, several of the Nation's prominent writers and Investi-

gators of the assassinations of the pást decade will speak.

While a number of different points of view on the subject will be

represented, there is general consensus that the Executive Branch has

failed to make known all the relevant facts of the assassinations..

He belleve that the Congress must ultimately take the initiative 1£

the public is to learn all of the facts, and that Watergate has shown

us that Congress' action depends largely, on disclosures by an informed

press and other news media.

A presa pass will be available for you at the conference registration

desk. For further Information, please contact:

Ms. AndrealWyatt

Conference Coordinator

(202) 232-1152

тето W. А Dherear

11/29/23

.19

21

---

## Page 20

13-00000

COME SHARE THE FINDINGS

OF THE NATION'S EXPERTS

AT. A TWO DAY CONFERENCE

THE LAST THREE PRESIDENTIAL

ELECTION'S HAVE BEEN DECIDED BY

BULLETS:

19ge - result deciced by the assassination of

Presiciont John F. Kennady

1508 - result decided ly tie assassination of

Sonator Robed F. Kennedy

1972 - result ducided by the neer-assassination of

Governor Geoge Wallace

SPONSORED BY THE COMMITTEE TO

INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS

TO BE LIFLO AT:

GEORCETOWN

UNIVERSITY

CASTON HAL

WHAT isthe evidence?

WHO fire Ine fatal shots?

WHY has there been such a concerted effort

10 withhold ine facis?

WHO was really behind the assassinations?

Nov. 23-24, 1973

COMMITTIE TO INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS

1520768h Gerce, N.W., Washingion, D.C. • (392) 252-1152

DECADE OP

ASSASSINATIONS

1963 - 1973

JOIN F. KENNEDY • SYLVANUS OLYMPIO O

ABDUL KAKIM KASSEN O MEDGAR EVERS:

"NGO" DIH DIEM A JIGNE DORMEDIE AL "

SHISHAKL! • PIERRE NGENDANDSHNE

HASSAN ALI MANSOUR A MALCOLM XE VIOL

LIUZZO A MARIO MENDEZ MOVTENZCRO a SIF

AGUBAKAR BALEWA EIT.V. IRONS AGUITI

HENDRIK VERWOERD O TRIN VAS VAN E

GEORGE LINCOL" ROCKWELL • CHE GUEVAR T

• MARTIN LUTHER KING & ROSER- F.

KENNEDY • LOUARDO NONDLANE A TON

MBOYA: O NA SHERMARKE • CFORGE

WALLACE - SALVADORE ALLENC.

---

## Page 21

13-00000

FRIDAY - NOVEMBER, 23

0:00 LATE REGISTRATION -

Farly Registranis pick up pisses.

5:50

MELCOME:

ir. Dernard Fonsterwald, Jr.,

Direcior, Commitice

to

Excutive

Investigate

Assassinations

dir. Norman Maller, Author and Forwarder

of The Filli Estare

10:00

CURATIT STATUS OF PROMINENT

ASSASSINATION CASES:

JFK CAse Mir. Robert P. Sinith, Director

if escarcis, Commitier to Investigate

Anassimations

RFK CASE - Mir. Robert Hanson, Ailorncy,

present counsel for Sirhan Sirhan

KING CASE - Mr. James Lesar, Altorney,

preseni counsel for James Gari Ray

WALLACE CASE - Mir. Ronild Van Doren,

Newsman, Aulhor, researciner into the

backpound of Arthur Giciner

ROCKWELL CASE - Nis. Meredith Rode,

Profussor at Federal Cliy College,

Authority in killing of Geerge Lincoln

Rockwell

11:30

UNIQUE INVESTIGNTIVE TECHNIQUES:

Mr. Willam Turner, Moderater - Former

Fel Arent, Author of numerous books

on investigative seconigues

Mir. George O'Toole - Fainter CIA Ageni,

Frce-Lance Writer, espert on the FSE

(Psychological Stress Eville:)

Mir. Robert Saliziner a Colonior Trigineer,

icclurer

Warren Commission

Ronort

12:30

2:00

6:00

8:30

1963 - 1973

PROGRAM

FRIDAY " Continuod

BREAK FOR LUNCH

MEDICAL AND PHYSICAL EVIDENCE:

Mi. joslans Thompson,

Modcrator

Professor at Haverford Colicas, aúthor of

Sir Second's in Dallas

Dr. Cyril Wecht - Professor of Law and

Forensic Medicine at

Duquesne

Universitv; Coroner of Pittsbürah, Pa.

Ms: Sylvia Meagher - Attorney, UN Official,

author of Accessories Ailer The Fact

Mr. Roger Hanson - Altorney, counsel to

Sirhan Sirhan

Mr. Herbert MacDunnel! - Profussor of

Criminalistics, Corning University; export

in case of Fred Hampton

Mr. Mark Lane - Attorney, author of Rush

To Judgment and Executive Action

BREAK FOR DINNER

WARREN COMMISSION REPORT: FACT

OR FICTION

A slide show and lecture by iir. Robert

Salteman

SATURDAY - NOVEMBER 24

9:30

ASSISSINATIONS AND THENEDIA:

Air.

irstirs

Henry

Fault, dioderator -

Humorist und Author of Feor On: Trial

Nir. koberi Kaiser - Minor of RFK Mist

Dic

Mr. Donald Frred - Co-Autice of Executive

Action

Mr. Hareid Weisborg - Autior o! Frume lip

Me. jud Charach - Author di Second Gun

Mr. Paier Noves - Nuthor of Lower Of

Doubt

Nir. Fred Coon -Author uf numerous books

and arlicies

12:30 BREAK FOR LUNCH

2:00

THEORIES OF CONSPIRACY:

Mr. Richaro Sprague,

Moderator

Computer expert and author

Dr. Richard Popkin, Profes ordi Washing'on

Lniversity; author of The Second Cirid

Coi. Flatelier Prouiy a Former Liston

Officer

barricon -Pontataniand C:A;

author er The Scorer Tauris

Mr. Rosort K. Brown

- Forma Peculi

Sorvices Orficer; esper: in trampis on

life of Castro

Mr. Earl Dolz - Reporter fur Dillas vlorning

News, expert on Organized Crimes

Mr. Vicior Marchetti -- Former CiA Most;

Mr.

Peter

Dale Scott - Peciessor a:

Berkciay: Auther of Thy Wer Canspiracy

5:00

INDIVIOUAL WORKSHOPS WITT THE

SPEAKERS-

Question mr Answer Sessions

6:001

FINi

---

## Page 22

13-00000

7 BI documens.

rowardel sei.

aw vvce

---

