104-10172-10340

‘ tiers

7

SECRET

Ar Co auce
: PoLeLeLéce

| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

RETURN TO CiA
Background Use Only
* Do Not Reproduce

ya-\ Ie Dec (8G

“hhef of station, [isin]
Chhat, 3

Sueur Ob 7
arcarfnmre VE -[irtrur J. Losartan)

LMJ, 30 sudy 1966 (2126)
LTQ) 2s Hrty 199 (204120142)

> 7
ACTION TWINK: Paaa attaahment 2 tofkaccrayi] per para } belas,

2, Sublect was quegt sned be ai 7: officer da early sntem 19S, Teo
portion of the debriefing of iaceciate intarest to yer, oonrernine Subject a
e@ontaste with or: VOLT axa oo. G, Yurly Meola-evich Vitus esd fire
SRACETLY, wriocoteciy aca [van Yaflossleh Gar OLY, avpears in atéectamms 2
te this digpatch, 49 canret Sdenti ty “Lastsh Conualot, far EASES,
mertionsd ‘n tre attactrzent, lovers: rofeagar) TY te srobebly
(Professor) Folix TVESUn, nerber 9° varic: “amraviat frent orpaisationss

2. In adttt:on to Subject’ hoot, paracraph 12 of thn attschuent, thet”
be will ‘© able to retum to ‘elatnct tn 1957, be aleo indicated te tha
Anterrogator that he a rdt wind to revisit :he Soviot "hdon at sono futore
date. Be was also concerned that Me amoriora at tho Untveraity ef Rickiran

wright take a din view of the fact thst ho bad rmorted to TA” witbent Fires

elesring with thes, and indicated that publicity of ary sort micht jesparde
fee bia pocttian im the wiieers:ty at his chances of ruturntor to Hnlamd,
To thie wo ak, of curso, that it wal! alco rimier tho chansee of Ris ever
retziming to Ute ‘cviot “ton, -UT (eso reazons, we tink that the WEIGH
Broposal, Hoference A, siould probavly sot be pursued furthers

Se On the offechanes that re =a: te of Suture operational inverset

ea Lt WEISTH, NT CAP, oF ctramdae!, vo do not think that camlete ésts!
of Subject's meetin-g with Soviets l1 elstukt should bs passed te(FAcs ot

Fsion af mbject's report,

da given to[fan os diseretion, Any information the
VACSDIE) Neve oa eS se, be appreciated, :
rae
a + be Attoctment #3 ts a SKA Sotebook sneet an Yricorly FVD.
7 a sufck sf
att 1.426 © a ae Arr
afatesesn2 Bfialsisd) a/a:t. :
atti 1, fedrtert &, ce SECRET IWAN SS

MOTCPY 235 Hepe SEE akaly Fred FE


Attach fo

DASE ANG} G08
Ig Dec 496

%

°” LZ
o’ 7
iat SOURCE: Frofessor of Mathematics at a large U.S. University who vas

iin Helsinki on a Fultright Grant.in Higher Mathenatics.

1. In late March or early April 1955, Source vas writing an article
on higher mthematics ani ta! occasion to quote an ald article written by
Prof, IVBRSEN. Prof. IVSRSSN is @ Pinnish mathematician in Helsinki,
vinner of a Stalin Peace Prise, and according to Source vas a good mathe~
matician at one tine tut ocv interested only in "Communist peace” matters. :
Source called on IVSRSSN, vith vhom he says he has quite good relations,
5 ani, as courtesy vould demani, asked permission to quote IVERSEI's article.

IVERSEN vas delighted at Source's interest in the article, gave permission

for him to quote it, aniinguired if Source would consider going to the USSR
for a speaking invitation. Source eaid that he vould be interested=——~

2. A few weeks after his talk with IVERSEN, be received an invitation
to give several lectures in the USSR. The fovitation vas from the USSR
Academy of Sciences and signed by Prof. SOBOLEV, who bed also written...
Prof. IVERSEN about this matter. .

3. Soon after receiving the invitation Subject and his wife vere in

the bar of @ restaurant in Eelsinki, the Kalastajtorppa, translated es —

tes “Fisherman's Cottage", when Gregorei GOLOB, vhom Source thinks is either

a a Consul or Vice Consul at the Soviet Exbassy there, and mu RASXE,@
Finnish Communist, both came up to his table and fntreduced thenselves.
GOLOB mentioned Source's imainent trip to the USSR. GOLOB and RASKE sat
down and GOLOB began to discuss the trip further. Source feele that
GOLOB's interest my bave teen prompted by the fact that Prof. SOBOLEV bad

i iesued the invitation on tebslf of the USSR Academy of Sciences. GOLOB

i bad about 5 drinks before be and RASKE finally left. Source remarked to
GOLOB earlier that he was not sure that he would be able to manage the
trip to the Qinanctally. COLOB said he didn't think this vould be
any special problem ani asked him to come to the Soviet Embassy the
following day to meet the Cultural Attache, who. could arrange to get him to
the USSR ard back without cost. .At one point in the conversation after they
had had aeveral drinks, Source shoved GOLOB a picture of his children. 0L0B
became quite emotional ani almost wept. He remarked that be and his wife have
wanted to have children for the past six years, but have had no success. cn
parting Source invited O0L03 and RASKE to come with their wives to his home
for dinner the following Supiay. Both accepted. GOLOB asked if Source
would be shot inviting a Soviet official to his home, and be replied that he
vould not. GOLOB-said that he didn't think he would be either. COLOB insisted
on paying the. entire check ani they departed.

4. ‘The following morning Source vent to the Soviet Embassy ss arranged
the night before to meet Yuri VORONIN, the Soviet Cultural Attache and VOKS
representative. Indicently, neither VORONIN nor GOLOB are listed in the

grerey

el,



SECRET
\

Releink{ telephone directory and it 1s alvays necessary to bave an \
Sppointaent to see them. When Scurce arrived COLOS bad Just completed a
souevhet ruthless interview vith some Finnish mothers, vho bad been begging
of him to allow the return cf their sons from the USSR. GOLOB appeared
quite stern as opposed to the pleasant aide of his personality displayed

the previous evening. i

5. GOLOB introduced Source to VOROKIN, vho vas particularly cordial
and agreed to finance thefour or five day trip to the USSR in May. VCROXLY
asked if Source's invitation to GOLOB for Sumlay vas still good ani asked if
he and his wife could come too. .In effect, VORONIN invited himself, though
Source said he vas glad to have him, Source met fou SERGEYBV briefly later
in the interview. Source believed SERGEYEV to be GOLOB's chief.

6. GOLOB and VORONIE appeared on Sunday with their vives bearing a
great many presents, more than the custom vould require. They brought tvo
vottles of Stolichnaya champagne, costing 25 rubles for a half liter, vhich
Source thought to be Russia's finest, alsv a bottle of vodka, chocolates for
the children, and several other small gifts. RASKE and his wife did not
eppear. Actually Source vas disappointed that RASKE did not come as he had
enjoyed very much talking vith him at the Kalastajatorppa the veek before.
RASKE hed said that he vas a travel agent and shoved Source his passport,
which indicated that he bad travelled virtually the vorld-over and even to
Kenya and other parts of central Africa, Source inquired of GOLOB why RASKS
had not come and GOLOB gave him a non-comital ansver.

7. Later in the evening GOLOB called Source aside while in Source's
study and said to him, "this RASKE is a svine.” He said that he had to deal
constantly with such people but resents the fact that his vife must mingle
with them socially. He felt that it is necessary to use these Finnieh
Communists politically but that they cannot be trusted.

8. ‘The conversation became quite free as the three men drank a liter
of champagne and a fifth of Stotch. The vives conversed very little during
the evening. VORONIN kept asking Source questions about life in the United
States--how much professors are paid, hov many cars Americans own, etc. At
first he asked the questions for the purpose of. pointing out that conditions
were better in the USSR, but later said that he bad had a number of miscon-

ceptions about the United States ani warmed up somevhat. He said that he
had never met an American family and Source felt that ‘his curiosity was

gemuioe.

9. The three discussed their general backgrounds freely. In all their
conversations they used Finnish, vhich both of the Soviets knew rather vell.

They did not eppear to knov other languages. Both’ had apparently been in
Helsinkt for a number of years, and Source doubted if they had been assigned

anywhere else outside of tha USSR before this. Source said that they had
Doth told him that they had attended secondary school and the “Language



SEC3ET

Institute", vhich I presume is elther the Institute of International
Relations or the Higher Diplomatic School. Source thought that doth

were hard Communists, although they admired she material accomplishments

of the United States. Re our earlier report that GOLOB professes synpathy
for the United States, Source feels that this statement probably means caly
that GOLOB expressed to him that the United States and the Soviet Union must
try earnestly to understand the point of view of the other and bargain in
good faith. He, as vell as VORONIN, is very much a Soviet Communist, ani
not defectable.

10. VOROKLN called Source on 7 April saying that 1t would be best not
to plan his trip to the USSR for May Day as bad been originally planned sicce
there vould be @ great many dignitaries in Moscow then and it would be difficult
to arrange adequate accommodations. VORONIN asked if he could go the following
week. Source replied that he could not as he was scheduled to leave for Exgland
on & Nay to give a series of five lectures there. lasting til’ the end of May.

i. The trip vss postponed until late June. Source left Helsinki for
Moscov on 22 June and returned 8 July. Both-GOLOB and VORONIN saw him off
at the train station. This was his last contact with them. In summary,
Source feels that they did not have any undue interest in him. They may have
been asked through channels to te particularly cordial to him because
Prof. IVERSEN and Prof. SOBOLEV had instigated his invitation to the USSR.
Also they had a normal curiosity to meet an American family.

12. If Subject can obtain grants for the trip, be hopes to return
to the University of Heleinks next sumer. After a veek's visit to Ruglani,
be hopes to attend the Scandianavian Congress on Mathematics folloving which
be is to speak st the ‘World Conference on Complex Variables in Helsinki. Be
will see Prof. IVERSEN, with whom he says he hes quite good relations, and

will look up GOLOB and possibly VORONIN.

13. Gregorei GOLOB vas described as about 5'6", about 165 lbs., no
glasses, long black vavy hatr vith lov hair-line, dark eyes, well dressed
with vestern suit, gave his age to Source as either 31 or 32 and born either
Odessa or Kharkov, very pleasant’and jovial vith good sense of humor. Has
very attractive wife, name unknown.

Us. Yuri VORONIM was described as 549", about 170 lbs, slim, bo
glasses, told Source he was 34 years old, slightly tense, pleasant. but
bas poor sense of Immor, ‘rather serious. His wife, firat name unknovn,
is ® professional ballet dancer and ie consequently not with him much of
‘the time.

15. Fm SERGEYEV, encountered for only a fev mimutes at the Soviet
Eubassy, about 5'6", 160 lbs., pleasant, age about 45, derk hair and eyes,

Do glasses.


SECRET
Attectment Yo, 2
Sedjests Soviet Officials in Helstnkt

au Durtoz the eprin: of 1956 a foreirner, visiting Finland,
hereafter referred to a9 Soiree, recelved an invitation to lective fa
Us Boviet tien, 4 chart ties Later, when Soures us # dintaz ina
Welsinxt restenrant, Iri-orty $70 ala 3 LH, wo Jovrea tiinks 1s either ——-
@ Consul or Vico Cons.il at tha Sertet ‘nbesey in Helainid, and (fm) 2A5eR,
described a8 a Finnish Con-wilst, cane up ta Sin table ant
thansel yes. OND mentioned Source's im inant ‘rin to the tg, and beth

that ho was not

a When Sunes arrived at the “oriet Txbesay the next day, CLS hod
Just eamloted an Lnterviow with come Tinvish eftisens who had emcing
Bim te clicx tho return of mocbera of their femiliew frou tho U2, GED
qrsered aeite stern ea eppasod to the pleasant aide of tis personality

3. O7LDD intraodueed Bagee to Tarly Bikelarevien YORE, the
Galtural Attache and YK! repragentative, uho wo very ecrtial sod agread
te finsnse Scuros's brief trip te tho m2, VRETH asked {f Seuros!p
fovitation to LTB for dimer vas still rood, ext asked f ho could ecu
woe 1 ese Se Pa ee eer romenly ak Ivan Teflaoriah SEOCTHY (600
prysieal ceveription in parazreph 9 below! briefly later in the interricr,

Vf Source valtored Bu 117 ts be OLLEI's enters

So Doth O-L0S ext VAST appoar to have byes fa Maloiaks for a
aber of Foers, and Source doubtod 1f they ned been assicned enywiero

SECRET


SECRET
-2-
4a wutatts of tha THER bofrea ths. Bath told Mm that tray bad ebtanted
Q@raundary echod, smd the “Laweace Snot itvte%.
6, whan Bowe Left for tha Soviet Unton, beth GCLIA ent KROES ey
Bs eff of tha etation,
Te Orizerty OCLIO was devartbed aa sbovs 596%, shout 165 Tote 90
Jeng blsck mary bet wits low heiralingy dart area
oor for bern im

So ee ee age to Corres as either jl ex
Odense ex Brarksv, y plazeent and jovial, wth a good 0&noe of BaDare

Be So worried.
@,  Serty VORCATN was as described 29 5'V'p front 170 Thow oLiay 29
7» bald Sonzoa bo waa 3b yuars old, slightly tense ease, placontt Det
@ poor cance ef taser, end Le rather exrions. Bo 19 married.
Yuma SEYETE wao deseribed ao cbovt 16°, 180 Ths, pleascity Og9
chant £5, dar tats end eyo, 00 glaosae. ,

.

SECRET
