‘404-40185-10135| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992|"*”
a 7 aie : 5 a Li

{ oR Oi ae: foie INST Lek Bee Sb
i + Be saul

ae : CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

- © Tele material eo 42s aformation afersiig the Notional Delonas c. ine Gained atause withia the wranian wv hepionage Lawn fide
5a, UB.0, Baca, 7s ans TH the Grameen antec 3 Fervtetion of whlea fn Say manor te An unauthorind cers U yronibited by lew,
S-B-C-R-F-T 1

NO FOREIGN DISSEM +

'
:

‘COUNTRY Cuba REPCKT NO. CS -311//00866-64

f SuMECT Report on Cuban Docuentation and CATE CASTR, 22 July 1964
Procedures of the uunuia. Directorate -

:doa_General NO. PAGES

REFERENCES, CS-311,90115-64
H CS-311/00345-64
CS-311,'09716-64

of Intoliigence (Direce
de _Intoligencia - DGi)

OATE OF To March 1964
INFO.

PLUCE & i
DATE ACQ. : : RED REPORT NO.
. cry as Rat TD TRFOR: 4.1.0, SOURCE ORADINGS ARE DERAITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT (S TENTATIVE.

sources A former Cuban IS-officer who served with the Cuban Intelli-
gence Sefvice until April 1964.

_ |. Headquarters Comient. The following information, as reported : :
by Source during a debriefing, reveals the misuse of official = '
documentation and procedures by the General Directorate of ’

Intelligence -(Direccion General de Inteligencia - DGI).
Use of Altered and Fraudulent Documents by Cuban Intelligence

1, Cubans and other Latin American nationals operating for the General’
Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion Genoral de Inteligencia ~
DGI) of the Cuban Ministry of Interior are fssued Cuban passports
in alias by the Cuban Foreign Ministry, These passports are
sconsidered legal ip all respocts by Cuban authorities. Cuban’
agents also use valid passports of a number of Latin American

= countries in which false entries are provided by Cuban intelligence

authorities, The documents used by non-Cubans operating under

IS auspices are intended to hide all traces of their travel into

and out of’ Cuba, ' A

Cuban Diplomatic Passports

2, Cuban diplomatic passports are issued in alias to IS staff per-
sonnol, consisting exclusively of Cuban nationals, They are o!
never issued to aliens operating as agents of IS, There are r
over 500 staff employees, according to Source, all of whom are :
eligible to receive. Cuban’ diplomatic passports in alias, A 7
little over 100 Staff employees are estimated by Source to have F

been doaumented in this way, >; H
: : : i
‘ Be : ey : ad
cece ae 2) RETURNTO c1a s
Asti iu nnnn ttesamt te Dd iground-Use Only 4i
s-r-c-r-E-tT © “DONotRepréduce—ass— 3!
: NO FOREIGN DISSEM ee HL
STATE DIA wave : Ait cy RX OCR FBI 2

oT]
IREPCINCLANT___CINCSO_#___I&NS
(Woes Hold diabution tadlcred by “#9

INP (AMMUG-1)
ICS-311/00866-64



S-E-V-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-la- CS-311/00866-64
Hdgrs Dissea NE/AA‘LES 1 VRRIOD 1 1
NE/AA/AP 1 weecurRT 1 1
WH/COPS 1 NE/Aa,'S, zr ¥H BRIL 1 a
WH/PO/A 1 NE/AA/T 1 WH: SSOP. 1 i
WH/PO/B i NE/S/P 1 WHBHIA 1 1
WH/RO 1 NEV6/C&E 1 WH BEHO | 1 1
WH/1 1 NEsIstcl 1 YH LGRE 2 1
WH/2 1 NE/CT 4 WHRECI 1 1
WH/3 1 WR-BLEM 1 1 ,
WH/4 1 WE/1 1 1
WH/S 2 WE/? 1 WHISA/WAVE 5 1
WIG 1 WE/3 1 1 5
WH/R 2 WE/A 1 AF‘ALGE 1
WES 1 AFORNA a
WiH/SA/EOB s WE/BC 1 AF/RABA 1 5-61
WH/SA/MOB 5 WER 1 AF/CASB 1 a4. /
WH/SA/R 4 AF/ACCR 1 1
WH/SA/Int r AF/CNRY 1 1
WH/SA/CI 30 Field Dissem AF/BAKO 1 1
WH/SA/SO/NS) 1 a AF/DATS 1 1
WH/MEXE 1 Y
CI Staff 5 WH/MNTY = 1 ER/VIEN 1 z
CI Liaison 1 WH/AMRID 1 EE/SBUR 1 1 ,
CI/RRA 3 WH/SDOM 1 ER/CYRU. 1 1.
RID/AN 1 WH/SNDR 1 ER/ATHE 1 (WE/sTOCy j5-31 -
WH/SJAN 1 EE/KAVA 1 2
AF/1 2 WH/PIBO) 1 EE/SLON 1 WE/PARI 1
AF/2 1 WH/POSN 1 FE/BERN 1
AF/3 2 WH/KNGS = 1 EE’GNVA 1 Liaison Dissem
AR/4 1 WH/PRIN = 1 EX/ZURI 1
AF/R 3 WH/GORG = 1 BB/HAMB 1 ‘Canada :
AF/CL 2 WH/PACY =. CMP)
WIUMANA 1 2 TE/Br iti '
EE/K 2 WH/SJOS 1 1 L/WASH,
EE/SA 1 WH/SALV 1 1 ‘
EE/BR - « 1 WHTEGU 1 1
EE/YA 2 WH/GUAT =. 1
EE/H 2 WH/LAPA 1 1 .
EE/P 1 WH/BOGO = 1 5
EE/C 1 WH/QUIT = 1. FE/KOBE
_EE/IIS 2 WH/GAYA 1
/LIMA 1 NE/COLO 42
FE/PMI/E 2 WH/CARA 1. Ge’ sEwp]21.
FE/JKO/JO 1 WH/BUBN 1 SE/BOMB|L2-261
FE/JKO/K 2 WH/COBA 1 SB /CALCY2-251
FE/VNC/VN 2 WH/MONT = 1 NE/MDRS/ 1
FE/R 4 /ASUN NE/KUWA 1
FE/CI 4 WH/SAGO 1 NB/KAHT 1
Tsp 1
S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM .



c -2- CS-311/00866-64

$. Issuance of diplomatic passports in alias is an automatic E
process whonéver an IS staff employee travels on assignment Gea
abroad, The employee involved provides the following itens, :
which he selects personally, to one "Felix Rafael,” in the

irwards the material to the Foreign Ministry:

1

a, Aliag,
: b. DipYomatic title,
< ‘°°. @, One/photograph.

4. The diplomatic title chosen by the staff employee is double-
checkdd by the. Foreign Ministry to avoid conflicts or dis-
crépafcies with.real assignments. For instance, Source chose’
the #itle.of "Consular Inspector" (Inspector Consular) for his
diplomatic passport and the Foreign Ministry determined that --

nofother Consular Inspector was scheduled to travel through

tle same_area about that ‘time. . The Foreign Ministry official

arged with: Assuing alias diplomatic passports for IS porage~

s.one Otero; Chief of. the Diplomatic Passport Section. a

‘o.does the ‘work en, short order, even completing a jab on «

‘the: Same date the requést is received, if necessary, 7

Froquésta}. 1bspersoanet. uging diplomatic passports travel a yy
sHaIl grol For instance, Source traveled to Mexico in — fae
early 19@4-#ith a group of six or seven staff employees, all

using dij dae passports.

ST Sartre wie

6. ‘There: arp no distingdishing eer either in the passport
sérial mber,. thé diplomatic title, or any other entry in a
diplomatic passport issued in alias to distinguish it froma
boria~£i je document. © #

Cuban Ordi: dr Passports a

cluding Cubans and ‘nationals of other Latin American countries, °
by the Cuban Foreign Ministry in much the same way as in the
caselof diplomatic passports, In addition to the bearer's.
photdgraph, an agent provides cover information on himself

for sein the passport which conforms as closely as possible

to his réal life. As an example, Source cited his own case,
sayigg. that he furnished a cover story containing his true

nar of birth, but Jisting him as single, even though he is

Cuban pcabans Passports are issued in alias to IS agents, in-

margied, Typical octupations shown on ordinary passports
used by IS agents are “student” (estudjante) and "laborer"
(otirero).

(obwexo).

fi
: 8. hg only distinguishing feature for differentiating between
2 pee ordinary passport issued in‘aljas to an IS.agent and

‘
i

a hona-fide document is a special code for the serial number.
Soirce thinks that alias passports for IS agents bear five-
digit serial numbers while bona-flide passports bear six- 5
djgit serial numbers, Source's theory was based on the fact
t his ordinary passport issued in alias bore a five-digit

ndmber while the bona-fide passport issued to his wife bore _
.aljsix-digit number, This premise is in direct contradiction -
-with a Study of the numbering system. found to be in use on= | +
¥ Ciban ordinary passports, A pattern in numhering is found, ieee
< with occasional discrepancies, in which a new set of acces- :

Sfon numbers is used each year. Thus, serial numbers will - -
bO lower on passports issued at the beginning of’ the year
than on those issued later in the | same year. The serial | H

ice eee

$-E-C-R-E-T faci
. fased FOREIGN DISSEM | Bue

ere



10.

Bona-

t
a NO FOREIGN SiSSEM
fall isa CS-311,00866-64

numbers are generally in a five-drgit pattern, although. it
was noted that from June to Decenber 1962 they ascended to

six-digit numbers,

Sources ordinary passport issued in alias was allegedly ob-
tained in January 1964, but was given an issuance date of 23
August 1963 and bears a serial aczber consistent with the
accessien pattern for the latter issuance date, Likewise,
five other Cuban ordinary passports issued in 1963 in alias
for use by agents under Source’s supervision bear serial
numbers adhering to the accession pattern corresponding to”
their particular dates of issue.

Grommets ‘recently ceased to be used on photographs in Cuban
ordinary passports.

fide Visas, Vaccination Certificates, and Passages

11,

12.

13.

4.

After a Cuban diplomatic passport has been used for one ro

Diplomatic visas for use in Cubaa diplomatic passports in alias
are applied for directiy—by-the Cubaa Foreign Ministry to the
foreign mission concerned in Havana. In Source’s case appli-
cation was first’ made in March 1964 fcr a Chilean visa ‘and
later for a, Mexican visa, even though no travel to Chile was
contemplated, The reason for this was awareness by Cuban
authorities of Mexican suspicion of Cuban diplomatic personnel.
The Cuban authorities believed the Mexican Embassy in Havana
would be less suspicious of a passport containing a visa from
another Latin American country.

Passage bookings and international vaccination certificates
for use by staff empioyees and agents using Cuban alias pass-
ports are also obtained, through the Cuban Foreign Ministry.
Vaccination certificates are obtained from the Instituto
Cubano de Amistad con los Pueblos (ICAP). IS personnel's
passages are always booked on Cubana Airlines because such
fares are payable. in Cuban pesos. No passages are booked on
Soviet or Czech airlines because these require payment in
U.S. dollars, which are scarce for the Cuban Government.

trip, an exit permit from the Cuban Foreign Ministry, known
as "Visto Bueno," is required-for each subsequent departure
from Cuba, The Foreign Ministry issues these to personnel
using alias passports in the same way as they would-for bona-
fide documents.

Foreign visas in ordinary passports issued in alias to IS
agents are applied fer directly by the agents to the foreign
missions concerned in Havana.

Types of Foreign Passports Used by IS Agents

15.

The Cuban IS makes use of valid passports from a number of
countries, including Mexico, all Central American countries,
Argentina, British Guiana, Colombia, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Haiti, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela, for document-
ing its agents, The IS hzd no access to, nor need for, pass-
ports from Spain and the United States. Source specified
that the IS does not use Uruguayan passports because the
Cuban Gevernnent does not wish to endanger its good relations
with that country. Valid filled-in and blank passports from

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN -DISSEN


: eee _ CS-311/09886-64 .

the various countries are obtained bv the IS through the local
Comrunist Parties in the counrries concerned.

Forgery ang Falsification Capabilities

The IS has no capabilities tor making false passports or in-

ternal decumeu.ts trom any country because of the difficulty +

of matching the paper and the technical problems involved in \.

the engraving and printing process. {t also lacks capability \
for erasicating entries in pasSports because of the problem

involved in attempting to delete entries without defacing the \

documents. ‘

16.

17. . F,Isification and forgery is limited to filling in valid blank
foreign passports, making photograph and page Substitutions in
sona-fide foreign passports, and placing false travel entries
/-in foreign passports. Travel entries from western Europe and
j Latin America can‘be forged. Source did not know whether the
! YS itself made the: photograph and page substitutions and for-
geries. All documentS requiring forgeries and substitutions
were turned over to one "Alfonso," in the IS, who took them to
a site unknown to Source. ‘Source theorized that the forgeries
and substitutions may have been done by the Departamento de
. Seguridad del Estado (Department of Statg Security - DSE), the
cuunteriatelligence arm cf the Cuban Government, which he said
has much wore personne] than the DGI.

Travel Pattern of IS Agents

18. Prospective agents recruited by the IS in other Latin American
countries and brought to Cuba for training in methods of sabo-
tage and other subversive activities are provided with detached
visas and spurious passports to conceal the fact that they ever
entered Cuba. :

19. In order that no Cuban visa will appear in an agent lrainée's
bona-fide passport on his way to Cuba, the Cuban mission in a
Latin American country issues the Cuban visa on a separate
sheet of paper. In 1963 most agent trainees were being brought
into Cuba through Mexico, where the Cuban Embassy issued the
separate visas. Early in 1963 Mexican immigration officers
began using a rubber stamp bearing the notice "Salid para
Cuba” (Departed for Cuba), with the date on it, which they
automatically stamped in all passports of travelers proceeding
to Cuba, To counter this move the IS began replacing, wherever
possible, the pages of the passports bearing this entry with
blank pages from valid passports from the same country as that
of the traveler. Source also believes that in 1964 the travel
pattern of a few prospective agents proceeding to Cuba way have
been modified, thus decreasing Slightly the number entering
through Mexico.

20. To conceal the agent's travel when leaving Cuba, he is provided
for the first leg cf the journcy with a Cuban ordinary passport
in alias. The route of travel is from Havana to Prague. Czech
authorities collect these passports upon landing in Prague.
Source does not know what disposition is made of the Cuban
passports by the Czechs, but he asserts that they are never
returned to the agent.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


21,

22,

S-£-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-5- CS-311/00866-64

For the second leg of the journey, carrying the agent from
Prague via western Ezrcpe back to his native land, he is pro-
vided in Havana, before departure, with a passport from another
Latin American country. The non-Cuban pagsport may be the 7
agent's bona-fide doccnent which has been ‘returned to him or

it may be another valic Latin American passport pressed into
service for the purpose. If the agent's own passport bears

no evidence of travel into Cuba it will be used for this pur-
pose, being “brought sp tc date” with forged western European
entries to explain the gap between the time when he left for
Cuba and when he arrived in Prague, but showing his mode of
travel to be such that he never passed thrceugh either Cuba or
Czechoslovakia. Should the agent‘s bona-fide passport bear

the Mexican cachet Showing that he proceeded to Cuba, the IS
replaces the page bearing such entry with a blank page from a
valid passport of the same country if feasible. If page sube
stitution is not possible, either because no other -passport
from the same country is available or because substitution
proves too difficult, the 1S will provide the agent with
another passport,. from his own country 1f availabie, or from
another Latin American country The substitute passport may yr
‘be a filled-in original, in which case a photograph substitu-
tion will be made, and the agent will travel under the identity
of the original bearer.

In other cases, where valid blank passports are used, the agent
may even travel under his trué identity after “surfacing” on

the second leg of the journey, in westerr Europe, provided the

passport used is from his own country. In such a case informa-

tion from his bona-fide passport will be copied directly in

the blank passport. If the passport is from a country differing :
from that of the ageat, his identity will be changed. As in

the case of travel uncer the agent's bona-fide passport, in

the case of spurious nen-Cuban passports, false travel entries

are made to account fer the agent's time speat in Cuba, placing

him in western Eurcpe, but not in Cuba nor Czechoslovakia,

during that period.

Quality and Availability of Spurious Documentation

23.

24.

Providing documentatios for agent trainees is the responsibility
of the IS country desk officer handling trainees from the par-
ticular country, The country desk officers receive and main-
tain custody of passports coming from the Communist Parties in
their areas of jurisdiction. Although the agent's training in
Cuba may take several weeks, or even a few months, it often
takes a year or more fer the country desk officer to be able
to provide his trainees with the proper documentation, Source
commented that invarisely a country desk officer will be skort
one spurious passport ia his “collection” of passports for a
group of about six trainees. ‘Where possible the officer will
“borrow” a passport fren his cclleague from another country
desk,

On at least one occasics forged travel entries made in an
agent's passport were found to have a chronological error

shortly before the agest’s departure from Cuba. The error
consisted of a false exit cachet for a given port of encry
bearing a date precedi=z that furnished on-the false entry
cachet for the Same port of entry, a physical impossibility
in true life. Despite the discovery of this error the IS

S-E..C-R-E-T
REIGN DISSEM



CS-311/00866-64

made no attempt to make a correction, hoping that no immigra-
tion inspectors abroad would notice the discrepancy.

1. Headguarters:Comment. Presumably Juan Nilo Otero
Rodriguez, Director of the Secretariat of the Foreign
Minister,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
