*"104-10181-10114) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

1

4
TS Gi Gy 3
Use Only 7 ’ 17
De Noi Repreduce
24 March 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/R&A

SUBJECT: . Trace Results on Persons Connected with
Centro Mondiale Commerciale (World Trade
Center) 7

REFERENCE: Our memorandum of 8 March 1967 on Italian

aspects of the Clay Shaw affair

1, The, 5 March 1967 edition of Il Messaggero contains _
a story linking Clay Shaw, currently under investigation in
New Orleans for his alleged part in a Kennedy assassination
conspiracy, with Centro Mondiale Commerciale (CMC) in Rome.
The story mentions four other persons as having been in-
volved with CMC: Carlo D'AMELIO, a lawyer and’ former
president of CMC; Ferenc NAGY, former Prime Minister of
Hungary; Henrich MANDEL-MANTELLO, president of the Italo-
American Hotel Corporation, who was managing director of
CMC; and George MANDEL, father of Henrich MANDEL-MANTELLO
and founder of CMC. A copy of the Il Messaggero story was
forwarded with the reference memorandum.

2, D'AMELIO, Carlo appears to be identical with the
Rome iawyer Carlo D'AMELIO listed on page 464 of the 1956
edition of Panorama Bibliografico degli Italiani D'Oggi.
According to Panorama, D'AMELIO was born in May of 1902 in
Naples, its a Iawyer and publicist, represented the Savoy
(Italian royal family) heirs’ claims, and was King Farouk's
lawyer, The I1 Messaggero story noted above states that
D'AMELIO was the Tawver am and administrator of the estates of
Italy's ex-royalty. OIR-605, 15 January 1953, mentions a
fnu D'AMELIO, a lawyer for ex-King Farouk of Egypt. NECA
5013, 28 April 1955,mentions a lawyer, Carlo AMELIO. This
document cannot be located and no further information is
available. It seems likely that all the above are identical
with the Carlo D'AMELIO of CMC.

3. NAGY, Ferenc, the subject of 201-11893, was a cleared
contact of the International Organizations Division. His 201
file contains a number of references to his association with
the World Trade Center. (See attachments.)

4. MANDEL-MANTELLO, Henrich TRA-
32933, 28 January 1963, + ie
og

“SEGRE



GRET

-2- ;

that a Heinrich MANDEL-MANTELLO, an Austrian citizen, formerly
an Hungarian citizen, is the administrator of the World Trade
Center, PERMINDEX, Piazza degli Uffici, Viale del Lavoro,

EUR, Rome. He reportedly had contact with Hungarian Minister
Gyula SIMO (201-257724). According to the 5 March 1967 story
in Il Messaggero, Henrich MANDEL-MANTELLO's father is George
MANDEL. ESBW-1819, I7 June 1954, states that George MONTELLO
(an alias of George MANDEL) had a son between the ages: of

22 and 26 years old in 1954. “It is possible that this te
Hentich MANDEL-MANTELLO of CC.

5. MANDEL, George (aka MANTELLO, George /and other
aliases/ is the subject of 201-11728. ‘He is described sa
an unsavory person who has been involved in shady desle
Since World War II. (See attachments.)

6. No pertinent identifiable information was found on
Nikolaus FISCHER in addition to his being listed in the 1963-
64 Anouario Parlamentare as managing director of CMC.

7. The attached documents are related to an investigation
of PERMINDEX initiated by CIA in 1959. This was the result
of a query from NAGY asking if CIA would be interested in
using PERMINDEX in some capacity. The documents did not
indicate whether or not CIA decided to use PERMINDEX,

| 93

ATTACHMENTS:

A - A copy of a 10 November 1959 memorandum from Chief,
1OD to Chief, Commercial Staff requesting information
on NAGY and PERMINDEX of Basel, Switzerland. (Copy
received from Non-official Cover section of Central
Cover Staff.)

B- A 23 November 1959 memorandum from Commercial Staff
to Chief, RID/Index section requesting information on
a number of individuals including NAGY, MANDEL, and
DIAMELIO, (Copy extracted from 201-11728 on George
MANTELLO.)

C~A croup of documents concerning PERMINDEX and CHC,

apparently in answer to Attachments A and B above.
(Copies extracted from 201-11893 on Ferenc NAGY.)

SECRET


ee

MIRDRANDUM FOR: -Calef, Comerciol Ctaff
Aorta trate eater

Frice rinioter of Ihozy, reecently
regident in tho teitsd Statea, ond o covert cacocint> Gc? 10D is Presie
dent of Permindox, o Evica corperatica vita p. gal colices info _
end represent: totives 4a various ports of ti2 world. ‘io orld Gras
Center, in viicl Macy ds also interested is escocioted vith Ferninios,
Brochures deceribing thece orpantzatilons are cltacied.

2. Racy haa esxcd a represcatctive of IoD 4f CIA vould be inter=
ested int

e) Placing en fmoricon busincama ca tha Loard of Fernindex.

db) Plecing a CIA egent casthe stat? of Percindss,

¢) Purcicsing coro chores in Pemaindox through the clove repran
sentative ox ths Goord in a to have a voico — tho

of it. (hocy om
tts io not a pits vor Peas)

3 Tho adventaces vinich in lovy'a Judgccat Peminces offers to
CIA include opportmity to develep information oa o2 ccutects in cany
developing coumtoies af Avie end Afies; cover; end poosibility of
influencing tho econcnles of these ecumtrica to soar extent. (Fewmincox |
in reported to hav rezresentatives reaciing 52 eouitrics, ineluiling the
Bloo and several coumtrics of Africa end Asin,

4. Permingsx hos just opene? ita offices ond exbibit halls in Raw
end expects, to be in full operation in the epring o? 1960.

5. Before pursuing this further, IOP vould erpreciate Cif Staff's
Judgeat on the following:

a) Finencial conlition of Perminiex and the World Tres Coater.
Dr, Hegy eye that Bonca Del Lobovo, Ram, Itely cca cuply full.
@eteils on cuch mattore.

d) Business potenticl of Pernindex in tho exhibit ona fnter-
national traie ficld; its competition; eta.



-a-
: 0) Any excents Ci nicit cise bastneso
7 cig Directo of

senticl o7.D. U ;
i eats wb Ce DY HITS, Jresiccas of ths World Grats Centers
Cote Be AN ate in, pennsing Director of tha Vorld trata Center.

6. iS CA Staff richt furnich on tus ebovo vould te very rich
cppreciated. We uaderstand thst Kocssy Noms, the U.S. Dezertomt or
Commerce, end ICA have fovorably reported cn tho Fossibilitics of this

organizations
: : Yeren ys Ms
: : i: COND IER, IR.
- Chic? -
International Orgonicaticns Divisica
Attack=entr

Eroclure deserfbing Permindex

10/1/DB:ek (6 Noverber 1959)
Distribution: :
2 = Addressee :
1 = C/cover Div. V
1 = ¢/cn/oo

f 1 - ¢/10
3 + To/.



: 2
HEORANDUN FOR: Chief, RI Index Section’

ATTENTION: Hr. As Je Zarichak
x 1001 & Building

1. Thte Staff has recently beer dented to render a report on
@ certain orpaniecation and an affiliate axt wo need histerical data”
eoncerming: eaveral individuils, which Appear on the attachad Niet.

2. The. fullest inforzation availstie, Ancluding financtal
standing and intogrity, as well es political affiliations, Cr00y io

roquireds

CRLRLSS P. WHITE
Comercial Staff



sree ey

morte om ee.

5

Dr. Tereno agy

‘a

Or. Ernst W. Infeld

Dr. Ernst 7eiest
Count Carlo D'Acelto

Georges Mantellos

Be As Kantello

Frits Schureh
Hane Seligaan-Seturch
Dr. Fdsar Salin

Exrize Minister fursary, proisiS. hes
resiced 1n United States, latterly frow
1959 hae bean in Ewitceriand - Pasal.
Reputedly involved in PZRMIRDSX Ltd.

Lager, 3 Lovenstrasse, rich,
Svitcerland.

Bern, Suiteerland

Rone. Reportedly President *horld Trade
Gonter*(Centro Mintial Commerciale <i Roma)

Rataralised Swiss of Hungarian-Bumanian
origin.
Also known as! Georges Mandel or
Qeorpes Mandel-Montello.
May have resiced ate

1C Avene Pechter and

Flace Derouleds, 3. densva
Te said to have @ police doseter of
extensive proportions.

? Rone, Italy. Ie there any connection
with 5 asove?

Fasel, naybe Pore at present.

Tarel. Panker

a



scr : 25 February 1960

\ MEMDAANM FOR: IO Division, Chief, Sranch-1 ~

Sa

7 SUBJECTS P: NECK and World Trade Center
Memorandum of 10 Kovenbder 1959

1. We regret to say that up to date the inforzation obtained via
Agency channa)s does not vrovide us with sufficient data to form any
opinion with respect to the items contained in pararraph 5 of the sub-
ject memorandum. ‘Consequently, as we have discussed with you, the only
ogical source of the essential: facts is Dr. Nagy himself. We attach
a list of the requirements as we see them.

2. Ke have one more line of inquiry out via reliable friends in 7 of
: the hope-of obtaining some up to date information on.certain aspects, :
althourh ve are not too san-uinc. Cards are being hald very close to
the chest. We should have the enswer shortly.

3. ‘¥e shall then try and assexble the ragged and somewhat con=
flicting information that we have been able to collect and furnish
Paseet tect : same althouch it will be of little real value to the rain subject
: matter.

hk. Or. Nagy 19, we are convinced, the only ona who can give
the necessary information by furnishing the answere and data requested
in the attachment.

“Tt cH HLT
at Comercial Staff

i WHILE Ley B77



lh

3.

ue

S.

6.
Te

INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED BY DA. KATY
VIATH RESPSCT TO PcRMiNDEX Ltd. any 273
SUBSILIARY

It has been learned that the orl::insl authorized and paid up
capitals of the two companies involved in the World Exhibit
Enterprise, initiated by Dr. Nary, ure as followst
tee Roreign Bqaniv U. 8.
Currency Currency

PERMINDEX LTD. Registered Jan. 30, 1956
Swiss Corporation Sv Fres 1,000,000 $230,000

CENTRO MONDIALS COMMERCLALE S.P.A.

Reyistered April 22, 1953
Ttalian Corporation (Affiliate) Lira 1,000,000 $160,000

It 19 assumed that the capital of the Romo affiliate is wolly
subscribed end paid up by the parent company, PERMIMDEX. Io this
& correct assumption? -

Has there been any increase in the autborized capital of the

Italian company since the inception? If a0, to what extent?
Manes of subscribers end amount subserined? Amount paid up.

What was cost of completion of EUR buildinss and orenaretion of
sane for oponing date of Permanent exhihit? Wes this cost borne

by owner or lessee?

Financial statement as at Deconber 31, 1959 or more recent date
of both companies consisting 0! certified 3alance Sheet and Profit

and Loss Statement prepared on the accrual basis.

Contracted space by Exhibitors by countries for first year
courencing May 1, 1960 openin; date and subsequent years if any.
Amount of first year’s expected cross income segregated as to
type.

Amant of first year's expenditures segregated

(a) Anmel rent of BUR buildings
(b) Other departmentalized.

February 25, 1960 SEGRE


: SEGRET

te
_ 2h Mareh 1960
MEQGANUN FOR! Chief, 10 Diviaion
SUNSECT: PETMINDER and World ‘Grade Canter
paseessieiesiaal REFERS Your Memorandun Request, 10 Novender 1959

1. We wrote to Chief, I¢/l on 25 February last thet we had to
date recalved soma information via Aysncy channels but it was mot
sufficisnt to come to any intellicent conclusion with respect to the

‘-————Htama contained in paragraph $ of the memorandua in reference.

: 2. e, however, were hopeful that more valuable information
i . conid be obtained throurh another source. This has now been received
and while it is not complete it does furnish considerably sore infor
mation than herotofore obtained. The information haa been obtained
: fron 8 recently formed New York Company as U. 3S. representative of
i the World Trade Center and, more particularly, the firm ensaced to
i promote interest smonget U. S. industries and obtain contracts for.

space for the opening on 2] May 1960.

-.. 3, Attached Exhibit "A" suzmariges the information received
' -,- @nd tbe following comments are offered thereon:

: @. Capital

It 1s conceivable that the capital of the Italian
! comany ie not in addition to that of Permindex as previously
. it has been stated that Permindex was the invosting entity in
the World Trade Center.

be. = Loans

‘This information was sought at the inception of our
Amuiry for it was inconcéivable that the company could bave
prepared the buildinzs for an international exhibit over a
: period of 18 sonths with only the subscribed capital as the
source of funds. The funds raised from the two syndicates ast
have provided the cost of manazenent and all the multifarious
lans in preparation for the establishment of the Permanant
International Exhitition, the main vurpose of the orsanisation,
including the proparation of the various “Palaces” wth all tho
utilities required which in various prees releases and the like
bad reached one miJlion dollars. There wuld also be the down
payzant on the 18 year lease referred to later.

Pan
re


ee Operations

\ On the basis of hopes oxpressod in item 2 of Exhibit 9A"
would appear to be a possihility of cross incomo from rental
of 81,625,000 for the initial year, which 1s apnroxinately

50k of the potential. Plus admtesions of, say, 1,500,000, against
‘the hope of 2,500,000, which would return $750,000, This would
give @ total ross incone from those two sources of $2,375,000 for
the first yoar. There.are no figures available of offsetting costs
of the venture, Including the annual cost of the leased premises.
With respect’ to the cost of finishing the buildings leased and the
installation of eloctrical, telephonic and other facilities, it is
not known why the lessece should te called =pon to neet the costs
normally the sane would be borne by the ownera, in this case the
\ Ttalian Government.

d. It 46 believed that a considerable munber of the
estimated attendance 1s based on U. 8, touriste but ve question
the validity of this theory unless the exhibitors who can take

| orders sre dealing in over-the-counter type of merchandise, which
‘would not seem practical. There are other pointe of interest for

, the short tern tourist to Rone.

: e. With rerard to tha failure to obtain U. S. exhibitors
and the restrictiona imposed unon thea and other non-monbers of
the European industry organizations, as mantioned in Axhibit "An,
it would seen that thore has been a lack of roscarch on ths part
of management since one of tha features stressed was tho selling
that could be done at the site. This is contrary to tho rules
st the Milan Trade Fair which takes place between 12-27 April

190.

he At thie stage, the venture seens highly speculative from an
investor's point of view. For, if the present exhibitors failed to
rengy their contracts for space at the end of the first yoar, the
poséibility of obtaining replecementa and extonding the space sold
would appear to be rather renote. If the Agreement of Lease signed
by the Corporation, said-to be for a pariod of 19 yoars, should be
breached the ponaltiss involved would no doubt be high. Failure to
achieve success by rental of all space to International Exhibitors on
a broad base would be a serious handicap of such proportions that it

would te calamitous.

5. he preliminary reports from various consulates and
embassies wore virtually useless as they consisted principally of
propaganda cleing to bolster intorest in the grandiose plans of the
principal or ostensible ontrenrenaur,



6. The biographical information referred to in your mesorandun
in reference, paragrash S(c), was pursued at the outset, |

a. Attached are Exhibits "3" and "B-1" furnished by Chief,
RI Index Section and would seem to contain no derogatory informa-
tion except in the eases of HANS SELIGMAN SCHURCH and GEORGES
MANTELLO ("3-1"), FE

b. Cn 19 March 1960 an unexpectod revort: vas received,
Ct/o0, covering FIRENCE NAGY and Be A. MANTLLIO, see Exhibit
Ree ane, information contained therein was, ao regards FERENCE
MGY, dtanetrically opposite to that heretofore on record, and
{hut on his associate and Managing Director of the italian
Corporation, Bs 4. MANTELLO, is narticularly danning if teao.
The contents of this report were that sane day conveyed to you
Personally and a copy left wth you,

, oe ere rere advised that a copy had been furnished another
Glanent of the Avency. Ve were successful in finally obtaining
the information that it would ultimately reach the Hungarian
Deak, | Personal interview was arranjed, but the copy Med mot yet
reached hin. He, however, read the report and stated that tho
credibility of the report should be tested by a thorourh erose-
exardnation of the source to eliminate the possibility of it
being the offspring of an oaisre squabble.

Se out Mould soem eninontly desirable that an valuation
of the report should be undertaken prior to any involverent with
fhe subject corporation either as an investor or in any othon

capacity.

7. With respect to your requost in iten 5(a) and (b) for an
expression of our opinion cn the following pointe:

‘@» Financial condition of the subject: companies;

b. Business potential of the companies in the exhibit
and international trade fields,

Ye have not been able to odtain the eseontial infornation to deternine
the financial condition. As wa suggested in our menorandun of 25
February last, Dr.-Hary 48 the only person availatle to supply tho
financial condition. From what ve have eo far Rleaned, the proupecta
of success are precarious and unless exhititors are found to occupy
the whole available space in the sxhi 28, and soon, the ,
first year's exhibit will de unsu nsequent result
{hat contimation will not be poselole on a profitable basis (see

item b above).



{
1
if

3. it has buen steted Ly the United States Renressntative that
many firms throuchout the world have applied for participation, and
many have, moomvhile, signed contracts. Contracts have been signed in

England Israel Rhodesia
Franco Italy Switzerland = “*:
Oresco Japan Turkey

India ~~ Torway

- It will be noted that no contracts are clained with any of the Soviet

Blo countries, which may be a consideration in your decision whether
to inject anyone into the organization's staff as suggested by the

ox-Prime Minister.

CHARLES P. WHITE
: vee Comercial Staff



FXHISIT "AS

2. Financial \
Permindex Ltd. $230,000
World Trade Center Ino. 160,900 $ 390,000

Equivalent of one million Swiss France and ten million Italian
Lira respectively. it

Leana: y
Foreign Syndicate t $832,500 :
American Syndicate : $00,000 2/ 1,332,500

914722,500

Y/ Supposedly against issue of preferred stock.
2/ To be repaid from income. |

i}
The venture is still seeking $250,000 to $500,000 either in tho forn of
loans or as an investment. _

2. Operations

The organization has reportedly leased 80% of tho space available
in the four buildings in the EUR group. One of the four wildinzs is
being used in comoction with tho Olympic Cames and part of another ae
@ meeun,

There are reportedly 25,000 square meters of space avellable to
exhibitors and the target of rental incone is $150 per aquare meter per
annum. Admisaion income bas been sat at $0.50 and 1t 1s hoped that
24 million pereons can be induced to visit the exhibition annually.
Additional income ia expected from gale of catalogs, wall space (for
edvertising) and services.

3. Exhibitors

The exhibition will open on 21 May 1960. However only 50% of the
available spaco has thas fer been contracted for 12 months with an -
option to renew orr an annual basis. Thus thers still remains tho
problem of obtaining contracts for the other S0f of the apace and to
obtain renewals of contracts when the present commitments expire. The
principal selling feature to the exbibitor has been the fact that



orders could be takon on the spot. However it haa transpired that
there are restrictions which preclude American firms, or others, who
ara not members of Puropean industry organizations fron taking orderes

Ae of now only four or five U. S. firms have shown interest in

participating, because thay fool that they cannot afford hot to be
Fepresented owing to the broad line of products they mamfactares



BIT: MACY, Dr. Ferenc; DGELD, br. Rroet W.; FELT, Dr. Ernet;
: D'WELIO, Count Catloy KAKIBLLO, Georges; HARTELLO, B.A.)
a iit de SCHICH, Frits; XLIGMAI-Sckurch, Bins; and GALIN, De. Edgar

1, Qn 8-Podruary 1957, © usually reliéble source indicated. thet,’ ip
early Novesber 1956, Dr. Ferenc NAGY, Oscrges MAPTKLLO ent one SELIGUS,
eet robébly idotical with Bans SKLIGWAN-Gcburch/ who was described as 8
1 banker", vere in costect with each other concerning the Rumgeriao
Pevolution.. It should be noted that informetion in our files indicated
“i. thét, a9 early as February 1948, WWUFTELUO and RAOT's secretary, Manrik __
VHLVES, kd taben an sctive interest is the activitios of Rexgariss refigecs.
Source further reported thet RAGY end MAZTELLO wore both actively isterosted
in tha establistmoat of permanent ozhibition: growsts in Basel, Bvitserlant,
foe exterprise ves called Permindex and the grounds and buildings were to
cost fifty million Sviss francs, According to Source, the Bese] benker
EELI@UN: /probably agein refere to Hans SELIGMAN-Schurch] vas also involved.
Qn 29 Decesber 1956, RAGY held @ press conference at Basel, in-vhich bs
stressed the importance of permanant exhibition grounds for Basel. KAGY
also stated, sccording to Source, that Permindex hed the becking of “several
big fineaciers”.

2. Source atated that, lecavsa of MAG('s political actorlety anc”
MANTALLO's lcry bistery of involywusat in shady Quali, the Svies police
wore vatching developemnte cloeely, and were of the opinion that Ferainéex
vos the cover for ean other, os yet imknom, sstivities on the part of
HAGY and KARZZLIO.

3. Toa files contain the folloving odditional information comcerning
' Bubjecta:

e, Dr, Senens di: A fully cleared contact of this offios,
stu political reliability te vnquestionable. Several excellent

: Dicgraphies of RAGY exist in the files of the Biographies

H Register, Offioa of Central References, and of the Biogrephic

i Intvlligence Divieion of the Departasnt of State. io are unsble
to give detailed informetioa concerning RAGY's financiel standing
and integrity. Should you vish to contect HAGY end question him
es to his financial status, this office 1s in @ position to
arrange a moeting betveen KAY and @ member of your office,
If you desire further informtion concerning such s meting,
contact Mr. Fesomts Rrom, Ereension 322.

SECRET

© USE GLY



coe)

SEORET

Information concerning DOXLD can

q : be fi f State Foroter Service Despatch $243,
Hy tated 16 March 1955, froa furish, Bvitrerland, DUBLD's nese
te also included onthe Du;ertaant of Coimares, Bureau
Foreign Commerce Checklist, edition #20 dated 1 April 1
and edition #2% dated 1 May 1956+ fi
Anan of the same name, who is probably
vee Cormerly Bviss Minister to
Thingary, It ts euggéated that, for information concerning
FEISST, you contact the Blographic Intelligence Division of
‘the Depertieot of States i

MAVTELLO: Well knowh to thie office, wareKLiO Ls

i bv. Dr. Brast

ce. Dr, Erpst FEIsst:
identical with your subject,

a
as rector ‘office nolds extensive information serene
copoerning MANTELLO, a ewmaery of Which will be furnished you -s,7 ee
in eavertl days. : + tle Rene
stom
e. Kang SELIGUAN-Gchureh: In eddition to the information eet,
conta: ma Toe above, the files comtein s cory
from the United States! Consul i

of @ letter dated 8 bay 1%,
Gersral in Basel to the Anericar Minister in Born. In this
letter the Consul General informe the Minister that the British
Consul, Generel stated that-an isportant Oerman industrialist
wae in Basel in April 19s4 cn a “pesice mission", The United
States Consul General vrote that “It would appear that Mr, Bane
SELIGUM, a formar Berlin banker vho has been conducting @
banking business here sinos 1935 under the pans of Bano
: SELIGMAN-Gchurch and Cospaxy, Kaufbausgease 7, served as an
. intermdiary detween” the British Consulate General and a
Basel reprecentative of the Geresn industrialist.

nant identifiable information concerning
te SCBURCS, cr Dr. Rdgar SALI.

ss 4. The files contain no pertis
Count Carlo C'AMALIO, K. A. BARIBLOO, Pre

Ne RE 1G BG

SECRET

usp ey

WI bsg centres Luteo den tp. emewee c


SAQIECT KAREELLO, Georges

1, In substance, the files contain the folloving informtion
conoeFaing Subject who vas bors Beruh MANDL on li December 1991, in the
Bosovina-trincylvaiis region of East Coutral Bircge, possibly in the
Villege of Lechiita (47! Ol" H 24! 21" K) in. vhet te pow Romania, In Juss
or July 19h2, sbject tock up permanent residence in Svitserland, snd
bas fesided In Gemva almost contimously since that tim.

: 2s Geserally-described' es boing dishonsct, unscrupulous and untrust-
wortly, Gubject bes firmly establiched an unsevory business reputation
ia the transactions ha has conducted over tho last tuonty yoara. “Ie Late.
1963 oF sarly 194, Subject spent « brief tims, cue scurce reported that it
vas tvo vecks, in a Bviss jail for illégel gold transactions, A wewally
Felisble source vith wide kaovindgs of the Buropean tusiness- community
ence rvfused to invest in a fire with vbich Mbject vas sscciated
Decause he vould have nothing to do vith such a “louche” olaracter.

i

wr

_ Je Bubject'a one determinable loyalty is to his Jevish co-religtoniates
Boginning in at least Zeptesder 194, and perhaps starting a fev months”
esrlier, Gubyect supplied Jows tropped in Ihmgary with false documentation -
which opsbled then to flee Mungary. Subject was able to provide this
docussmtaticn vy virtue of bis positioa as Zl delvadorisn consular
represantstive (his exact conoulay title was no% mods clear) in Geneva
during tha latter part of World Wer IT, 1% bea teen reported thet
Subject assisted porsons not in favor vith the Nari's to escape from
Germany Gurirg World War I, The files indicate that Dubject performed
most of these eorvices without remmaration, however, at least three un-
evaluated reports state or iniicete that ha sold the false documntaticn
ba vas able to provide. .

4, Bubject han been frequently mentioned in cases of faleo documptation,
In @ report deted 16 Roverber 19483, en officiel French source stated that

one Eugene VEFTCIAP hod freudulantly obtained Fresch passports for Subject,

hia wife Irene, end their son Berique. Ween qurctioced about these passports
by tho French authorities, Subject steted that VERTCIXY hod been entrusted
with thé task of procuring Preach citiseswaip for Bubject and his family,

‘that VENICLP vas to prove bs Lad eoqwsed Pronch citisonship by giving Subject
and hie fextly French pessports, ead that @ubject hed nevor used the French -
passyorte VESICLEP hed given thaa beorsee he suspected thot thay bed

deen obtained iiregulerly. @ubject's most recent knuva involvement

with illegal documentation wes reported in February 1992, vhen Subject

was in serious trouble because en Xl Balvedorien peesport be issued wes

found in tha possession of an Italian Commmist arrested for counterfeiting

SECRET

CIA WIEZNAL USE ONLY

fae


Garb ct ich eshwed seed bbidcecccteesr aidan t

prior of the Federal of Foreign Affoirn or the

Fodsral Sosretorist of Interval Affeirs. The basis upen vaich tho list
Yosaral osrw iar tn pcarce of the infarmtion en the Liss ry Cem

to tha Bureau's somror. oe gage 11} ef ths list, unter the beeding
"Iereal”, Tore tay ror WETRLLO-MAREL, George, (ems of gubjoat's

appsered
aliasss) bare’12/11/01; Leechnitts.

Be Rae 1994

‘SEGRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

sense? gees


feces foreseen . Sone aT

2 of Ht ene anes:

. i COUNT? Bergary/‘Italy/vi tees eat aEPCRT NO

| SUF : jai Manipalariacs 6f DATEDIST
sie /stieged Asea Sxvexling

| te take ond sfrien no races 2
‘ : ecrenes.cts * Cadi 315785 _
e | ee.

De peralcticn, be managed to cooape 10 Ayatria. Source, vbo Camo

! te tho 63 in 1957, te wall infers’ a gusrerian radugeo mettens.

| he Bofors dork

sigeet hia resiguation after bie 908 wee
Sriteerland. see te not well-known in the fect that ba we

permitted to retela aa capensive worry car Stalinte qift — oot .
Fea paid 129,000 ovina freaes by the Setriag Comusisw oo the

price Sor Bly egenetLtone

2. Bagy sutaged Bo sar
to prosper oo a8 ckualinit Sat

» gortly after Vorld dor Li, Handel booune Wane 2

§
{
i

kapt weir wavy ia the Dros Tonk.
bread, beaaze o eosficnat of iris Pietster Haare

i &.  ootar the Ceveesnlat eon Chokt Ls Lead, Musdos led tecgary, end 12
gho carly 1950's (wo oxegt to 19 wet bane to 53) BS oo
Rarioo , om Italian eitioes.



a

SECRET
2°

5. According to information I bave received fraa Hungarian refucces,
Macvéllo nested a rerutatle front man and ‘pereasied” Verenc Racy
te deceme president of Meatello’e business orpaaization, Peraindex
Ltd. Aa-Mantelle mamged to smujgle considerebio funds from
Ranary, to viica ne added 'arge sume {n italy, it vas not too
4ificalt for bim tc ortain Nejy's servinne for the corporation.
ies ia Le aminston aot jenerous expense account.
fig freqesatly trevele to turope ‘ortuslness”. im addition, Me
faally elo tewfite f-cm his easoc

=$th Manteilo; Sagyte
Manghtor end soe-inciav, "rijyee tients cheat ‘a formar Av0 =
security police -.af

+ cor) ere weil paid am:loyens cf tha organination's
Italian affillate in Fare,

Fermindez, acorevisted (ora of Fermmai innsirial smidition, is
also known to Pongarias refugees ‘ss an organisation deriving ite

name from iatin and Sungerias, o weli-knoan *lingufatic® pheeoneaca

in itngarian Communist terminology. Tbe per (Latin) in rermindes.
Thbat te, teroghout the vorl4)) afad (sungarien)

P nin: and ux (lamgarian) meaning the ebdoreviated

. The uryaalaation has puge varebouses 18.

Suitserleoi una fess, italy. Yagy failed to cotain permission to
astediish en affiilete fa austria.

de Tobeard tne fel.uein, musors cireviating amas Hungarian races
goncerning the activictes of . sralater:

@. 1t arranges vorld faire for fat fees.

d. Ie delivers agricaltum] saching7 ta vertical
interretionsl exhibitions, In this respect,
*ta pervices of the forcer Prime Hintster, a
farmer, are beneficial to Portrindex.

oO. Tt enyngos 1a amg iiag arms to asta and africa,
Aftar sorld ser Il, ft purchased surplus ard

elsulste US arse, which were orirartly esld in
ats

B. Beas Sido refuses, vos lava littis respec. for egy, are arreid that
these internations] manipulations «1]i sooner or tater bring discredit
to the goal anne of genuinely entiCowenist Zungarians.


ee ee .

> 5 Aprit 2960

KENDRANDUM.FCH: Chief, IC Division/franch-1

SUBJECT: _ PERMINDEX Personalities - 00-A 3,158,897

,l. Here is a supplemental piece of information concerning
Mantello, to that contained in 00-A 3,153,706 previously furnished
you. This was received today.

2. It 4a noted that the subject is stated as the founder of
Pormindex Ltd. whereas, eccording to corporate informatioa, be ia
Managing Lirector of World Trade Center with which Permindex is
closely associated.

SECRET

