[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 }

i wAf/3/M

104-10098-10058 |

Chief of Station, Mexico
Chiefs of Station, henie Real Feeas

. EE geet ay ; - fms
: WED Lore oe
sce ted ry + in - Wixote aze (a01-a77478)

REF: © MMA “22150

622 at Punat
ga Gounsplor,: fegoeiay

. tthe
: 3 ‘Bo lgradep Wat Gaurse does
Bees. array be the weave Gecretariat for

= "50's ZIC
irs awe}: 4 the Gourtiaees
+4 éérVtes! O

ae irst ZIC ta Rijeka either
e

a be hes’ é6 aa ye ee ge

f fo (iho eoares “of ‘the:

afi

: ae Aecdcaing’ te aa fiers sain ceert (BERIJOSH ‘neses one
“Bikola SIC as first Arete the UD Chief set Fiune and Sasak,

iF mealtreaadraay ia June 2!

Bey Rta pe

Rerun TD c cia ater

oe —o
1 ~ Caracas —_
wr (20 Zz a $55
panne


Soamnieeaan! S  Sébhes
tee! BuMe 12012

3. A Yagosiav refugee interviewed by ODOPAL ia Saauary 1985
named Hikola IC, Major, bora cirea 1919, reetding im Susek, se
@ecend im coumand of the civiliae UDB im Rijeka, Yuge@lavia. Ke
Was thes alleged te be having an affair with Marije BULZ, who

came ta. during the sewer of 1954 as an UDB agent.
SA, Bees
Gas $o a well-placed and reliable souree, Nikola
- Z2C served ia fren '1950-1982 as one of the sasisteats of

the Londce Resident, ender cover as lof of the Consular Section
of the Yugeslag Gubeeay im Leaden. The GCaPeS added that SIC
had beck eeshened.a difficult tack hy the Coordisation Department.“

presecupied atiout -i¢ and fenred that he would net be: eble-to esrry
1¢ out. Source deseribed SIC as “a bad and dangeross man.”

Le ao ae i
isa @e * $2 fete | -cpowe of ro, tae Eihola BIC ss te

og
the Yuegeslav Consuler Seetics. Ke wis Ron 38 August ‘1981 sad,
sccorging 0 the. Brit. there was mo ressas te 6etee teed e ”
Lf ng Sar tt :

Cesta Ries, Bseara end’ e
waza: ip: ¢heed efeao'agnis ¢x teuy ta.
sot ah Femecibpe:bustione Say olen hesy'ss

Stat ded way.

ry

antl
