104-10181-10161) 2022 RELEA: R THE PRI IT F. YY A |ATI RDS ACT OF 1992
SSASSINATION RECO:

104 SE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY AS: IC

a042 “| ASE F ESIDEN

KAAZ- 17354
i: ah : : 10 beytenber 1956

"poetics otal Bisgecchic ! alee a on Risharal” SuYoee
erate ii I ot ek at! 19 Seo 50 catia

Subtest also steng to Brllt other courses,
Pollowicg the 7ur's wrk, wie Provabiltty
ane SRT MM SEL De dns ed to tas Bway te Wore,

So S78 act was eakod about She wetverstty and Acpacy frtents

Sf OY Suse 7! ta touch vith, The azewer is almat RoeLee., | 70 CIA
Qle [oxy atras

. we cue case Bsect recalies baving mov QETURN
tal & fev penne at the

2eil 745 ; ;

1

08 C0? , foie 74 TCEr

oie ound Use ONY
parely tarry ilttle ant « i
ie 13-3 i | Qg Not Reproduce


+ Subject fa at presant abut thirty-five yeare old. Stands
Deut 5°9" ta nefght, welt 160, wears rintess Blapssa, das 1: ght

” prow-Aske combed stret be ack, prosnmoed widow's peas,

?
te vald. Vite ta Aun, amd they nove tvo chris, the oldest of vies
te sce tutrtoma,

we Guaject and f dlscuseet © vide range of toplos, but principally
te Porvien barvice aod ite attractions for him. He le wall mtiafied
vith Ris chatce of caresr, Bis pria-tral attrmetion w it, bovever, is
the opportunity fer foreign
Hace: 0a the FE9s, He 16 not averse to the ealection eysten, toclut:
tia saleation out featares. le thinks the Cervice Le doing well by hia

te tte trataing program.
LL. Wy fotereet tn bie, from as oper
& Arms Atanding Foaling that Gudject might wall be the type to cooperate

Nits a Apmey vithout revealiac such a fect to the Devartext, eould
do breach a? faith be iavalwed and if good and euffletent resnme vera

lis Budjoct's address tn Poste: ts; 25 Jautd Bt., Brookline &.,
Naagechusette.

Belson A. Brickham

traval asd residence eod the’ respoustollity
hing

