fo. 10101-10184) [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ARECTOR

wH &

30P, CH, C1 /OPS, C1/ua, FI, OPSER, SAS 8 O% Bh vr

wave vex : INFO Cite i} 7 8 19 :

REF: MEXI 7201 (IN 71903)¢
PERUMEX COMMO

1, GRNSRAL PREXISE VGRUWEN THIRD COUNDRY OPERATIONS
ADOPTED UPON ESTABLISHMENT TASK FORCE W JANUARY 1962 wAS
THAT ALL FIELD STATIONS WOULD EXPLOIT PBRUMEN QPERATIONAL
OPPOSTURITIS AKD HAdLi« PERUMRN AGENTS, THIS WAS DELIBERATE
KUDOVE DECISION TO REDUCE EXTRAORDINARY. EXPENSE AND DIFFICULTY
IMPLICIT Df OF. BRING EXCLUSIVELY HANDLED BY CENTRALIZED
OPERATING UNIT. CARE OFFICER, AGERT .OR.CONTACT TRERATIONAL
TRAVEL MUST GE CONBAATENS WITH THESPOLICY, AND GHOULD,BE
UAPERTAKEN WHEN IT 18 THE ONLY OR CLEARLY. BEST. WAY TO.

DUITIATE OR. HANDLE OPERATION.

2. THUS WHILE WE RECOGNIZE THE PROBABILITY OF EXCEPTIONS,
Met al els eal) apd ahem ee (4
WILL RECRUIT AND HANDLE,IN ITS AREA, REGARDLESS OF SOURCE
ORIGYWAL LEAD OR WHETHER OR NOT POTENTIAL I8 FOR AGENT INSIDE
CUBA. (UF AGENT RADIO TRAINING IS REQUIRED FOR EITHER AGEWT?

TRAIWED BY MRXT OR TMWAvE ACEWTS YEENSYTING MEKI, AND THEI alti
_<cGaT Na

TRosariee corneas

3:

PELEASIaG ate



Foca» DIRECTOR
Cir s

mers a

1c

ee eee
GFELCERE STACIONED. AT VAVE EUOULD ES. OND... 20 UPN CASES

8a. a a
LIURP.AEERRE FOLLOR, FATE SEASOR supetD BE CLEARLY BraTED
2s, TATE1AL. wngsos. RORTRREELE, UEKI, DHL GCRT. OP GRRCTAL
CIRCUNSPANORS, WAY WISE WAVE SANDLE CERTAEE CORES,

4, 40 APOLYISG ABOVE GENERAL RULES EOQU QOVES. mADWrAIn
DEGREE OF FLEXIBILITY WHICH WILL PERMIT KUBASK MOVE ON TARGETS
WITH SPEED “AMD RYFICIENCY, WITH NO L088 IN COORDINATION.

i KD OF MESSAGE

WH CMT: In ref KEXI requested Bdqs policy on PEREMEN Ops.
OC/AD/L. Eisler (in draft)
8a8/m08,

Bas:

+s: -. Sn

: I
REPRODUCTION 8 CTH THAN THE SSCING OFACE S Pecruemsp. Copy
