# 104-10186-10128

## Page 1

104-10186-10128

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECI HOISe& CARIAYA Moltalyo

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

* Do Not Reproduce

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO.

REFERENCES

CS. C1-316/01215-66

16 September 1964

DATE OF 1959.

INFO.

PLACE

Hashington,

D.

DATE AÇO: Septembe

1964

THIS IS UNEMAL

FELO REPORT NO.

THAN Di C

SOURCE A fOrmOr Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligenco

Service until April 1964.

Headguarters Couments

The following report 1s one of a series containing personality

Information provided by

It Is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

.. the individuals mentioned

In the personality roports without first

checking with this Agency.

Sourco met MOises"CARTAYA Moltalvo in the Department of

Investigations of the Polico in 1959.

le does not know where

CARTAYA could be at the present time

but assumes that he is not

In cuba.

• 2.

150 pounds hag & medium build, and is a Negro.

Headquarters. Comments

1. Attached to & document dated 19 October 1960, was & copy

of a diroctive issued by the Departamento Tenépico.

beaten and or a the poure ho were to or to

Included on the list of students was Moises

A. CARTAYA Montalvo.

2.

In a report dated 3 May 1961, a fairly rellable source

identifiod Moises CARTAYA Montalve

as & member of the

Departamento Tecnico de Investigaciones (Technical

Department of Investigations - DTI) of the Cuban National

Revolutionary Police.

STATE

1 01A

ARMY.

REP CINCHANT

, Noso. fiold dialribution indicorod by "#".)

CINCSO *

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TAIR

INSA

I&NS.

I FBI. 2

INFORMATION

REPORT

INFORMATION

REPORT

TH/SA/E031 / WE/5/R

AH/SA/MORL WE/MADR

1

CI/LIA

2 LCI/R&A

RID/AN

BIE/BRITISHE DI

is hara

TOTAL NE/SA 7 (2), WE 1 (2), CI 4,

RID 1

LIAIsON.

at - 1586

iO PROJECT (AMMUGAL

'SCI-316/01215-6

COORDIMATINO.

tiko

крен та 1

ABBOLITE PREVINNA mMAIN

5

4

3

2

---

