# 104-10211-10326

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10211-10326

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

Catel of Station, Lexico CIty

custchen

ВІСВХТ

MOCESSING: FION

то

osa.

ROM

ONLT QUALITED CASA

CLA NOL BODUMA

MORICH

Chief, WE D1v1a10n

LA, ENVOY-&

ACTION REQUIREO-FITERENON

AS & SOSUlE OL ERA TOCOLE POTION dONO Of the LITHAT

Rad LIYAVOY projoct, 1t caza to seroguarters attention that.

WaiVOrs, uho us bolloved to lave been ternisated, tus st1ll

covered by the LEnVOY project.

According to HlOlS-14878, LILHYOY-8 WEB the CAUSe OR

& BACULItY PrOblEM SOI LIENYOY 11 Pebruary 1880 mbea do regiasted

COlONDA ITON LISNTOY and a transler to his parent organization, the

LIKVYOY-& UnS doBcribed Ra «

"BCUr" ARtIOelIst tO diBaDpOTed OL ODTOLE's shering as tbe

LIENTOT take.

3. BeaNgUArterA DOT DOtOS tDAt LILIVOY-l's clearanco bag

EsTOs baen cancelled and theTo i8 no Agent service lecord or

terelatlas гароr8 19 h1в 8110.

LISHVUI-8 VaS LACludod 1a tDo

LIEVOY Project reseval request for the 1961/62 project yeur, but

not for the 1863/83 year.

The slald project resuval request 10r

the 1969/68 JesT 1Dcluded sla agalA.

8. It 18 requested that the Btatton Infora Headquartore of.

the present status of LIlliv0r-8 (201-113106).

If ho has boen

8erm1ratod, please formard da agent saxalco socora.

18 be 1s

BILL BeLDg UNDU, PIeRRe PrOVIdA a CUrTeSt AnALyBIS Of his Fells-

MiltY aNd CORMOntA ON ADY LOCUrITY prObelaS prOSODE 1a 11848 Ol

alos actione and reputation 1a 1860.

IND OP DISPATCH

Dietritation:

COB,. Elexico CItY

31 octo

CROSS RETERENCE TO

DISPATON MESOL ANO MUMBLE

ПHt: 12027

QLASSITICATION

ВОСЕВІЯ

DATE

10S FILE MUMISER

801118408

ORIGINALING

---

