Do ANAAN
1 oa-40338-10010) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Washington, D.C. 20505
14 August 1998

Ms. Laura Denk, Esq.

Executive Director wae To
Assassination Records Review Board is
600 E Street, N.W. 2nd Floor sete
Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Ms. Denk:
Re: Response to CIA-12
The following is responsive to ARRB Request CIA-12.

The Agency has made a thorough search of its files
systems in an attempt to find files on the individuals noted
in referent request, namely, Ron Cross, Doug Gumpton, Bart
Henry, and Ted Shackley, particularly as their Agency
employment /association related to their service with JMWAVE.
The following files were located and have been reviewed, or
made available for review, by ARRB staff:

a. Cross, Ron -- An Office of Personnel Security
file was found but, with research, it was determined that
the subject of the file was not the Ron Cross sought by the
search.

b. Henry, Bart -- No files were found on “Bart
Henry,” which apppears to be an alias or pseudonym. Also,
no information was found to the name being registered as an
alias or pseudonym.

c. Gumpton, Doug -- Gumpton is an alias which was
used by retired Agency employee William M. Kent; Kent’s
personnel file is in the JFK microfilm; the search found
both his official Office of Personnel and Office of Security
files.

d. Sanchez Morales, David -- Subject’s Personel and
Security files are located within the JFK collection at JFK
Box 244, Folder 23 and microfilm (box 64) Box 57, Folder 11
respectively. :

e. Shackley, Theodore G. Jr. -- Subject's official
Office of Personnel file; employee payroll file; official
Retirement file; and, Office of Security file were located.


This completes CIA action on referent request. If you
have any questions, please call me.

Sincerely,

< oo
d. Barry Harrel



Pelee ere UNCLASSDELED | (|
CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS”
\ RELEASE IN FULL _.° 6 August 1998

Se ne, 2000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, JFK Declassification

“

Project/HRP/OIM/DA
FROM: William McNair, DO/IRO
SUBJECT: (U)DO Response to CIA 12
REFERENCE: ARRB Request for Additional

Information and Records No. CIA-12

1. (U) This memorandum is in response to request number
12 (CIA 12) from the staff of the Assassination Records
Review Board (ARRB). The staff has requested “Access to all
. . . files relating to Ron Cross, Bart Henry,” among
others.

2..-—-(U) meee) cannot identify Ron Cross and Bart Henry
as true names. fe information provided in the request
indicated the names were pseudonyms for people who testified
before the House Select Committee on Assassination.

3. (U) The CIA has checked the AllStar data system and
the DO Identity Registration Service but cannot identify
these names, Ron Cross or Bart Henry, as registered aliases
or pseudonyms.

4, (U) The CIA cannot provide any files on Ron Cross or
Bart Henry because of the reasons stated in Paragraphs 2.
and 3. above.

William McNair

UNCLASSIFIED


13-00000

‘ UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (U) DO Response to CIA 12

DO/IRO William McNair x@4

4Qi:mjk (6 August 1998)

Distribution:
Original - Addressee
1 - DO/IRO
1 - C/IMS/ESG i

1 - IMS/ESG/HCS

2

UNCLASSIFIED


13-00000

18 June 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
FROM: Gary M. Breneman, IC

SUBJECT: Completion of ARRB Review of Certain Security
Files

1. The ARRB requested access to certain security files
and the same was granted.

2. Following review of such files, the reviewer,
Michelle Combs, directed that portions of each be copied and
made a part of the JFK assassination records. Further, that
the materials be review for release as soon as possible.

3. This request has been completed and copies of the

selected portions of the security files on the following
individuals have been place in the queue to be processed:

A. Ted Shackley Ye“ = pe

B. William M. Kent

C. Harold Weisberg

D. Walter J. Sheridan

E. Gordon Novel

F. Jack L. Rubenstein (aka Jack Ruby)

4. Questions concerning this process should be made to
Barry Harrelson or Gary Breneman.

Gary, eneman


13-00000

ft CONFIDENTIAL
Se
CL BY: 0000000 “
cumense FIL C ah
eet on: XI —
av Faw: COV 1-82
27 February 1998
MEMORANDUM FOR: Bonnie K. Hunter-Y-
FROM: Frieda P. Omasta@ DA
OFFICE: ZOANRO Z
SUBJECT: f CIA-12 (Stackley etal)
{ “
REFERENCE: Shatkley, Cross, Henry, Gupton (CIA-IR-12) DANRO No. 12
Bonnie:

This is with respect to your 26 February 1998 note wherein you asked that we check HRM for personnel files on Ron Cross, Bart
Henry and William Morris Kent. In an effort to bring the status of this particular tasking (CIA-41R-12) up-to-date, | provide the following:

‘My records show that on 18 July 1997 Barry requested that we conduct file searches on Ted Shackley, Ron Cross, Bart Henry and
Doug Gupton. We were advised by Barry, and as outlined in a 22 May 1996 letter from ARRB to John Pereira, that Cross, Henry and
Gupton are pseudonyms used by CIA personnel who testified to the HSCA.

Notwithstanding, we tasked OPS and HRM to conduct searches on these individuals in an effort to locate files. On 22 December 1996,
| advised Barry that HRM had located files on Ted Shackley and would provide them to Barry via this office once they arrived from RC. It
is my understanding that Becky gave you the OPF yesterday. HRM advsied further that they had attempted to locate files on Cross,
Henry and Gupton but failed to locate any files on these individuals in light of the fact that only the pseudos had been provided. We
further advised that if in the future you have access to the true names, we will glady search again.

On 23 December 1997, | advised Barry that-QRS had located files on Tad-SHSEKePeRaMAEG BiguoUpton and that the files were
in OPS for review. They were unable to Agni a bec on ny.understanding that you have not reviewed these files to
date but are in the process of making arsang phducted the search back in July and | am certain that ry bn

she will be glad to you in this matt Z a

And lastly, | have no record of ever having received a request to search on:Williamy’Mortis‘Kert. Accordingly, | will request OPS and
HRM to do so.

Please let me know if | have misinterpreted the status of this request. Thank you. Frieda

Original Text offFrieda.P. Omastal

CONFIDENTIAL


a“ : Wark ory

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

October 27, 1996

Mr. Barry Harrelson

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Status of Assassination Records Review Board Requests to CIA for
Additional Information and Records

Dear Barry:

Iam writing to follow-up on our letter of October 7, 1996, regarding the status of
Assassination Records Review Board requests for information and records from the
CIA.

Formal Requests:
CIA-1
Review Board staff review continues. No CIA action needed at this time.
CIA-6 (Cables and dispatches)

CIA has agreed to make records available (or to have a response ) by
November 1, 1996.

CIA-7 (Histories)

Counterintelligence. CIA has made material available and Review Board
staff examination is ongoing.

Mexico City. The Review Board awaits CLA’s compilation of the portion
of the Mexico Station history that was shown to G. Robert Blakey.

Boaro ‘Memacrs: Yokn R, Tunhenn, Chair - Henry F Graff Kermit L. Hall: Wilam | Joyce + Anna K Nelson
Executive Dinector: Dawe! OG ALe wel!


13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 27, 1996
Page 2

Other Histories. No response has been received to our agreement that
CIA identify within two weeks the histories that can be made available
and those that should be subject to further discussions.

CIA-8 (Intelligence community staff)

CIA had promised to provide a report to the Review Board within two
weeks. Nothing has been made available.

CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)
We have received no materials responsive to this request. Additionally,
no response has be received from CIA regarding the list of publications
that are identified in an LBJ Library finding aid that the Review Board
staff provided.

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has not yet made available the records that it had agreed to provide
within two weeks. (wes Oswald om)

CIA-11 (Duran’s original statement)

CIA has agreed to make some further attempts to locate Duran’s original ©
statement.

CIA-12 (MWAVE materials)

CIA has agreed to make materials available on a rolling basis.
Informal requests:

Spas Rankin. CIA has made the Spas Rankin file available to the Review Board.
Review Board staff ae np a When research is complete, staff wil
discuss issues with . art los Cam PA\CTs eee peed [wes
KEL E o\e: AW CA>
IN 23738. CIA is searching for cable number IN 23738 (7 July 1962). ~ copy sont

Marilyn Murrett. CIA has made the Marilyn Murrett file available to the Review
Board. Review Board staff research continues. When research is complete, staff


13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 27, 1996
Page 3

will discuss issues with CIA.

HTLINGUAL. It is the Review Board staffs understanding that CIA continues
its search for HTLINGUAL records and will provide an oral briefing on the
subject. It is also our understanding that some HTLINGUAL records have been
located, but that they have not yet been made available to the Review Board.

Recent and additional informal requests that we have discussed with you:

Operational Reports for Cuban Exile Groups. The Review Board staff has been
unable to locate in the collection monthly operational reports for the DRE, CRC,
or MRR for the period between March 1963 and March 1964. Please advise us
whether these records exist and when we may review them.

Moscow. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding
Mosco as discussed with Michelle Combs on October 24, 1996.

Tape. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding a tape
as discussed with Irene Marr on October 24, 1996.

Please let me know of any inaccuracies in this letter or any suggestions that you have.
Thank you for your help and cooperation.

'y
General C and Associate Director for Research


Cw

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

QagbERT#I956

HAND DELIVERY

Mr. Barry Harrelson

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: Status of Assassination Records Review Board Requests to CIA for
Additional Information and Records.

Dear Barry:
Iam writing to memorialize our conversation of October 1 regarding the status of
Assassination Records Review Board requests for information and records from the
CIA.
We discussed the following formal requests:
CIA-1 (Organization materials)
CIA has made records available to the Review Board. The Review Board
staff will continue its review and make recommendations to the Board
and will request further information, if necessary, from CIA. CIA needs to
do nothing further at this time.
CIA-2-5 Complete -
CIA-6 (Cables and dispatches)
CIA originally informed the Review Board staff that these materials could
be made available by December, 1995. CLA now agrees to make the
records available (or to have a response) by the first of November, 1996.

CIA-7 (Histories)

Mexico City. CIA has shown the Mexico City history to Gunn. CIA will
compile the portion of the history that was shown to G. Robert Blakey,

Boaro Memaens: John R. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff - Kermit L. Hall « William L. Joyce » Anna K. Nelson
Executive Director: David G. Marwell


13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 7, 1996

Page 2

which will be processed as an assassination record. Gunn will then
determine whether there are any additional portions of the history that
should be added to the Blakey version. CIA will compile the “Blakey
version” as soon as possible and Gunn will promptly thereafter review the
documents.

Index. CIA has made an index available to Review Board staff and the
staff has identified certain histories that may be appropriate for review.
CIA will make available those histories that are of obvious relevance, and
will raise with Review Board staff any questions regarding the requests
where the basis for the request is unclear. CIA will begin to make
histories available on a rolling basis. Review Board has agreed to review
histories promptly once they are made available. Although it was not
discussed at our meeting, we would very much appreciate it if you would,
within the next two weeks, identify which histories you are prepared to
make available and those that CIA believes should be subject to further
discussions.
Cram’s multi-volume counterintelligence history. Although Cram‘s
history was not specifically discussed at our meeting, the Review Board
staff understands that the history has been located and the Review Board
staff awaits its being made available.
CIA-8 (Intelligence community staff)
CIA will provide a report to the Review Board staff within two weeks.
CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)
The Review Board staff provided CIA with a list of certain publications as
they appear in an LBJ Library finding aid. CIA will report back on
recommended action to the Review Board promptly.

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has compiled information responsive to the request. CIA will make
records available within two weeks.

CIA-11 (Duran’s original statement)


13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson.
October 7, 1996
Page3

CIA has been unable to identify to date Duran’s original statement. CIA
will make some further attempts to locate it.
CIA-12 (MWAVE materials)
CIA will begin to make materials available on a rolling basis.
With respect to the informal requests, it is our understanding that:

CIA is inquiring into matters related to Spas Raikin. The Review Board staff will
discuss issues with CIA once the pending research is completed.

CIA is locating a cable number IN 24738 (7 July 62), which is identified in record
number 1993.07.20.10.18:29:650630 (Box 34, F 22), p. 2.

CIA is inquiring into matters related to Marilyn D. Murrett. The Review Board
staff will discuss issues with CIA once the pending research is completed.

CIA is continuing to search for HTLINGUAL records, particularly those
identified in Church Committee index that was provided to CIA by Review
Board staff. CIA is prepared to provide oral briefing on HTLINGUAL.

Please let me know if you have any supplements or corrections. We would very much
like to ensure that these matters are handled expeditiously.

As always, thanks for your cooperation and assistance.

Lan Associate Director for Research


13-00000

- ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
.

CSI-0320/96
22 May 1996

ici

MEMORANDUM FOR: Focal Points for
* JFK Board Requests:
Fred Wickham, DO
Lee Strickland, DA

FROM: John F. Pereira
Chief, Historical Review Group

REQUEST: Assassination Records Review
Board Request No. CIA-12

1. Attached for the DO‘s and the DA‘’s response is
Request No.CIA-12 from the Assassination Records Review
Board, dated May 22, 1996.

2. The request is for access to 201, Office of Security
and other files related to the following indiyiduals:

David Sanchez Morales

fed Shackley (related to service at JMWAVE,
1962-64) .

Ron Cross, Bart Henry, and Doug Gupton
(related to service at JMWAVE)

- According to the request, these three are
pseudos of people who testified before the
House Assassinations Committee.

3. Please advise how you would like us to reply to the
Board. I suggest we discuss what arrangements would be
appropriate for providing access to the documents requested
while assuring proper protection of sensitive information.

de /ecees eee)

. 2aohn F. Pereira
Attachment

By

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 - Fax: (202) 724-0457

May 22, 1996

Mr. John Pereira

Director

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: ARRB Request for Additional Information and Records No. CIA-12

Dear John: ~

Pursuant to its authority under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992, the Assassination Records Review Board requests the following:

1. Access to all 201 files, personnel files, Office of Security files, P-files, or any other files
related to David Sanchez Morales.

2. Access to all 201 files, personnel files, Office of Security files, P-files, or any other
records relating to Ted Shackley relating to his service at the JMWAVE station between
1962 and 1964

3. Access to all 201 files, personnel files, Office of Security files, P-files, and any other
files relating to Ron Cross, Bart Henry, and Doug Gupton related to their service at the
JMWAVE station. It should be noted that these names are pseudonyms, used by CLA
personnel who testified to the HSCA.

This request should be interpreted in it$ broadest possible sense. To the extent that you
question whether a particular file or record is encompassed by our request, please let us
know and we can advise you whether we seek to include it.

Should this request impose an unreasonable burden on you that we may not have
anticipated, please advise us so that we can work with you to modify or amend the
Tequest accordingly.

ro

Boand Memseas: Jona R. Tunheim. Chair - Henry F. Graft - Kermit L. Hall - William L. Joyce - Anna K. Nalson
Exccuriwe Qmccroa: David G. Marwell


13-00000

rat datia Hte

In requesting access to these materials, we are not designating them “assassination
records” and we are not, at this time, requesting that copies be given to the Review
Board.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Sincerely yours,
c

i

favid G. Marwell
Executive Director
