# 104-10076-10302

## Page 1

AAAA

104-10076-1030

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

24 SECRET

HOUT

DIRECTOR

ROM UNRAVE

CHONG

C/3A5.3

3

(SAS COPY SLOTTED ATO 2130, 10 DEC BP)

SE GRET 1190202

1131

DIA CITE WAVE SA

¿MEDIATE ACTION

RYBAT TYPIC YOBIE

11 22 31677736

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SITREP 1E DECEMBER 1963

I. INTELLIGENCE KIGH IGHTS

A. KUJUMP INTELGE

NIT MING TO REPOPI.

B. WAVE INTEL

11. UFG-4253 (CABLE) AMCONVERT-A REPORTS PAULINO SIERRA

ARRIVED HAMI PROS: CHICAGO WITH INSTRUCT INNS FROM HIS PATRONS TO

CORDINATE PLANS AID SULECT FLEMENTS FOR WAR AGAINSI CASTRO.

SAID HE HAS MILLIONS DOLLARS BACKING HIM.

2. UFE A2SZ (CABLE) APLAME-S REPORTS CRUISE MISSILE INSTALLA-

TIONS AND LAUNCHING PLATAROS AT FLAYA GIRON, LAS VILLAS PROVINCE, AS

OF NOW 63.

GO HOLA AND KUT UBSID.

NOTHING TO REPORT.

D. PRESS AND RADIO

1. PIANI VERALD 1O DEC CITZO CHARGES ZY CRE PRESIDENT MANUEL

ANTONIO DE VAR ONA I HAT

120 SOVIET TRAULER'S AND UNSPECIFIED NUNZER.

SUBMARINES HELPING SHUCZE CUBAN ARIS TO FOCASTRO QUERRILLAS IN

L AT IN ABER ICA.

- DUCATLED REPORT SENT TO DAS SAID FLANES FROM SAN

maria.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIE

SECRE

- PAGEAN

JULIAN AIR BASES FERRY ARMS INTO YUCATAN PENINSULA, MEXICO.

REPORT NAMER CUSAN PORTS USED TO SHIP ARMS, AND LISTED RECEPTION POINTS

IN HONDURAS, PANAMA, VENEZUELA AND BRITISH GUTANA.

2. SALOMON MEDINA JR, DIARZO LAS AMERICAS IA DEC REPORTEN

MINFAR MAS/ SZE UP CENTER MEADED BY RAMON GARCIA CEVARRO AT CLU SEPULVEDA

SCHOOL, & AND ISTH STS, VEDADO, FOR MONIT OR ING TELEPHONE CALLS ACCORDING

TO REPOT PROVIDED BY FEDERATION OF, CUBAN TELEPHONE WORKERS IN EXILE.

I1.

OPERAT I ONAL DEVELOPMENI-S.

A.

OL. ASG SEN ANCOVE- 1.

2• THREE VI MESSAGES RECEIVED FROM ANCOVE-I-ONE WT MSC

RECEIVED FROM AMTURVYS LO

3. SU MSO RECEIVED FROM ANCOVE-I AND ANTAUR-SO VA

B.

C.I.

:12:

01426959)

SEE VAVE 8791 RETTA LUZIBI BERLIN AND HIS OPS SUPPORT NEEDS.

C. PU

A CABL INQ DESER IPI ION MAVE'S CONTINUING PROP ACTIVITY RE VEN ARMS

CACHE.

D. PH

WITH MILITIA AND REQUESTING AMMEDIF BUCIPR HE HE STAT

кома

TO AREA FOR EXFIL NICHI 1O DEC.

EX DIRECTING NEPTUNE

2. AMBEACH AND COBRA-XI OPS SCHEDULED ALSO FOR NICKI 10 BEC.

3 AMBANTY MSGE SE AND 95 GIVE BIO DATA ON AGENT TO BE EXFILTRA-

ED ON COBRA-KIV AND CHANGE IN EXFIL PERSONNEL.

MATES SO LETTER

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

-SECRET

PAGE 3-

SENT TO MEXI ACCOMM@ATION ADDRESS.

4.

CACHING MATERIAL FOR OP CHALICE-V CHECKED AND PACKED FOR

TRANSPORT TO

ELIOT KEYS WHERE IT WILL BE TRANSHIPPED TO PARENT CRAFT

NIGHT 12 DEC.

AMHAN AND ANTYNE TEAMS SCHEDULED ARRIVE JIJAVE AREA NITE

10 DEC FROM (ESQ/1SOT) TRNG

E.

IS

PRESENTED INTEL BRIEFING OP, CHALICE V ON 18 DEC.

III.

IV•

LISISON DEVELOPMENTS. NOTHING TO REPORT.

ADMINHFAD SUPPORT

A., TRAINING

1.

AMHICK TEAM COMPLETED PM REFRESHER TRAINING 10 DEC.

2• AMSPARK TEAM BEGAN PA CACHING TRAINING 10 DEC.

SECRET/

---

