'104-1020-10087| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

+. JANE SCHNELL

ROUTINE

RLS LOND. AWHA AUDI. BERN WANE 4. AKGT. BORK PARI

MUNI DAGH EHAR L18B COPE KASO BEIR LEOP MAXI PRUE REWD

DAMA BABA POSE BAGU VIBN KAHI TPLI SAGO HBID ATHE JIDD

THIS CYBO TEHE CNBR OSLO CSIR MOGA PACY GNVA ROME PRAX

POUARD :

™KaR RAST - AFRICA BRIEF

‘(ROPORW IS SLANTS, “mumareyeg iapo RELSASERLD TO LIAIBORN, )
1. | 1RAQ:. //SBARP COMPETITION FOR powRR 1a RANPERERG Fi]

TAAQY REGIME'S ATTEMPTS TO ESTADLISH ITSELE FIRELY. //
//aery-SaaTHist ARMY OFFICERS ARE STILL ‘Umar ‘ovER :

THAT, BASTRISTS BLAY IN: THE REGIME. A NON-BAATHIST RAgTIOR iii

eSBS15G- FOR REDUCTION or BASTHIST ISPLUBECE [OR

TIE ARREST AND TRIAL OP LRADERS OF Tim RITREWIET SAATE FACTION: uy

/7OROBABLY £9 A RESULT OF THis FERSBURE, BAATHISTS 255. BLING

BLIS3 GATED PEow bsg POSITIONS Is THE 1MfSLLIG OCR ARP SECORITY

SERVICES, A: HEW ARMY. ORPUTY CHIRF OY STAFE BAS BERN APPOTITED, AXD
A MBER ov. ARMY OFFICRBS. RETIRED. //
‘apa BRIGAUE CORSIDBERD Gorsh / 7s ARTY GAD. BEEN BROUGHT

adem beige rene
oven

Cony Ma,



; sec Pomc GF SAAMMISTE 1H TOE ART, AD
REVIELATS THE.LINS. THAT TUB COUP WAG HOT DI

frame rae aie amo B TAUTS YANEA ASE TEYIEG To mAINTAIH
a REUTRAL POSITION. “OHYA BELIEVES THAT THE PREGEEN 83TuA\ tow May
EVESTCALLY LESS To ANOTHER COUP.//
2, SYBYA: //POLITICAL TENSION IW. SYRIA B18 or aes
" SUORRABLY DURING THE PAST THREE DAYS AMD A COUP MAY a® pa RG.
SAATELET PAMFY YOURDERS AFLAG AND BITAR HAVE ASKED POR VISA TO Go
ABROAD, WHILE GEVERAL CONSERVATIVE LMADERE HAVE BREN WELEASSD rROU
custoRy. THBAR ARE ALSO INDICETIONS THAT ATTEMPTS ARB BEIKG MADE TO
OUST BAATHIST VICE PREMIER GHHERAL UMRAN.// (CONF?
(y. TRAM: //PHR TRANIAS CovEmMmer corrianes To BE CEMCEREED
| OVER ALGEDLY MASIRIST }

pgveeyterca



//SAVAK, THE IRANIAN SECURITY AND IEYELLIGENCE ORGANIZATION,
RROORTUPLY ARSESTED AGOUT iCU ANAS. IN EHUZESTAN =n OR 26 Nov,
AND THE ROUNDUP 18 COXETINUINC. LOCAL ARAB DISSIDENT ACTIVITY BAS

APPAISATLY BREN UHDER CLOSE WATCE ron SOUR, TINS, BUT THE LARGE
“ROWGEE OF ARRESTS APPRARS ‘TO RAVE BERN ORDERED FROM TEHRAN! ‘WHERE
TRREB 1S Ai RKAGGRRATED APPREHENSION: OVER: ARAB “UNITY”: MCVEMENTS. //

BISISTER iNGWU'S COALITION GOVERNHEST RE-
i? SORTHS OF UNBEST AMD INSTABILITY.

I50NU'S RESIGHATION WAS PRECIPITATED BY TUR DRPRAT OF TER THO
MINOR: PARTIES IW BIS COALITION BY TEE ermearTTOn Justrcy PARTY (3P)
ER THE BECRPT LOCAL ELECTIONS. ORESIUEWr GURSEL mes ASEED ‘ERGEUTS

CABINET TO STAY OX UNTIL ANOTHER CAN BE FORMED. AFTER 1EONT'R
FIRSY COALITION COLLAPSE. IN JUfB 196% NEARLY A NORTH 2 BEFORE

C ¥en ABLE TO. PULL TOGETAER 4 NEW CoveRveyr a

p

ROR LESS CONTROVERSIAL ¢:6 OBB UEOSEN TO VAME TRE xZAD

THIS bts DISCUSSION OF A WER Ci COALITION : FAB ‘CENTERED: ox TES



Cr fhe C3 Fe NC,

-FaGB FOUS~
POSSIDILITIES--A “AATIONAL” GOVERIMEET INCLUDING NEARLY’ AGG PARTING,
2 A COMSINATION OF TEE JP ARD THE RULISU. REPEMICAN. PEesTss'
PARTY. A eeteecrece pee Saenger)
8S, CYpaug: //cRmEY amp TUREISE CYFRIOT LEADERS EVIERNTLY ARE
BRAD. 4 GUONDOUH.OVER-THR QUESTION OF.
- @oreasrarr; SABARIOS BAS: FORMALLY GIVEE: VICE FIEGEDOST OCHUE,

| TMB RBADER OP: ‘THR. TURALSH “COMMUNITY, A ESUDRANSI PROFODEND ‘eae
TENSIVE) MODIFICATION OF: CONSTITUTIONAL POOVIB DOS: URICH Tt: TORE
REGARD AG: GUARANTREING..THEIR MINORITY BRIGHTS. ‘TORESH CYPRIOT
LEADERS , “GUPPOXTED BY THE TURKISH GOVERNERUT, wave commrsTENTLy m-
JBCTED ANY SUCH. ODUFICATIONS. //

/#uaxA8108 PABVIOUSLY INDICATED THAT ER ULTISAIBLY SIGHT ACT

USILATSRALLY se) ‘CORVERE A CONSTITUERONAL ASSEWBLY IP THE TURKISH

COMMUNITY REYUSES TO AGHEE TO NIB BASIC DRHANDS, HB INSISTS THESE
ARE EESRUTIAL IF CYPRUS IS TO NAVE A BGREAELS GOVERNMENT, //
a Y/THB ALREADY STRAI@ED ARLATIORNS BEYWEER AMD TURKISE

CYPRIGTS FILL DETSLIGRaTE RAPIoLT 2 ae eae

Ba~

RIBR THE FURKS' OPPOSITION. ROTH GRERE AND TOSKIGH COMMUEITIES RAVE

