# 104-10063-10243

## Page 1

104-10063-1024:

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SPATCH

CASSISTBAT

SECRET!

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

Chief, WOMUSE

EYES ONLY

1 INFO.

Chief, Far East Division

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief of Station, Manila Tw

(RYBAT/MECHAOS/Roger Brown,

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

EYES ONLY

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Member of the American Black Panther Party

ACTION: FYI

lo The following information was obtained from the

_for the period 16-30

September 1970 dated 5 October 1970:

"American Negro lawyer Roger Brown, member of the

American Black Panther Party legal staff, was guest

speaker at a lecture-forum held 10 September 1970 at

the UP Vinzons Hall.

Brown spoke on White America's exploitation of

both the

Negro and Filipino peoples, and stressed the

need for "people's power"

the complete turn-

people's lives.

Finally, he concluded that the first

step towards revolution

is polarization, politicalization

of communities, and the coordination of

worker and

student movements."

2. The following information was obtained from the

for the period 24 September-8 October 1970

dated 9 October 1970:

"The SANDIGANG MAKABANSA, the campus political party

of the KM-SDK at the UP, assisted by the Nationalist Corps

and the Alpha Sigma Fraternity, sponsored the showing of -

CONTINUED

Distribution

2 - Chief, WOMUSE

EYES ONLY

1 - Chief, Far East Division

EYES ONLY

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

FPMA 21267

RY BASICATION

SECRET

DATE

23 October 1970

HOS FILE NUMBER

200-006-387

08955

---

## Page 2

14-00000

(1)

NTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

RYBAT

SECRET

DISPATCH STMBOL AND NUMBER

FPHA 21267

films "Eyewitness: Cebu" and "Cuba Libre" and several

slides on Russia at the Abelardo Hall on October 8 and

Ronald Brown, a member of the radical Black Panther

in the United States, brought the films to the country.

The films played up the socialist advancement in Cebu

under Fidel Castro and the socio-economic advancement

in the Soviet Union."

3. It is possible that Roger Brown and Ronald Brown are

the same person.

4.

Headquarters may wish to pass above information to

LNERGO.

If the information is passed, it is requested that

be used in lieu of

as the source of information.

Emery D. WELLNOCK

---

