# 104-10310-10076

## Page 1

1104-10310-10076

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

103

2 FEB 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Review Staff

ATTENTION:

Mr. Walter Elder

VIA:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

SA/DDO

SSC Request

Review Staff 76-0070/a (13 January 1976)

1. The following CIA Staff Employees, all of whom are

now retired

on 30 November I96sipated in the preparatión of DIR 86054

Originator:

Coordinators:

Authenticator:

MT. Louis Armstrong

Mr. John M. Whitten, Mr. William

Tyng

> Ms. Sue w. Darling

Mr - Willian B. Tyng) ("'for". Desmond

FitzGerald)

Releasor:

Mr. John M. Whitten ("for" J.C. King)

2.

We believe that the Italian diplomat on the Cubana

f11ght No. 465 on 22 November 1963 from Mexico City to Havana,

cuba, was Mario Maull who was accompanied by his wife, naria

Antonieta MAURI. We have been mable to determine who trans-

mitted the information contained in DIR 86054 to CIA and we

have not been able to locate any documents relating to this

matter in Latin America Division files or the Ofwald file.

We have been unable to locate any documents which

would indicate that there was a response to DIR 86054 from

Mexico City.

4. Assuming there was no response to DIR 86054, the

originating Headquarters component should have initiated

followup action if a response was not received.

We have been unable to find any further information

relating to DIR 86054 in Latin America Division files.

EZ, IMPDET

CL BY 012180

---

## Page 2

13-00000

-2-

6.

We do not have a copy of the Cubana manifest for

the 22 November 1963 flight from Mexico City to havana, but

we have deteruined that the following persons were on that

flight:

NAME

Jakob ETT

Hector LEMIEUX

Joseph POULIOT

Donald George CAMERON

William POULIS

Thomas Clark OSULD

Dungan MCPHERSON

Leo John DEST

Thomas MURPHY

Arthur EDMONDS

James DISINOP

Venancio OLIVAREZ VIllaverde

Jose Luis CACHO y Barcha

David FLOR Lechago

Maria Antonieta MAURI

Mario MAURI

Maarten Van DERPLAAT

NATIONALITY

Swiss

Canadian

Canadian

Canadian

Canadian

Canadian

Canadian

Canadian

Canadian

British

British

Spanish

Spanish

Spanish

Italian

Italian

Dutch

OCCUPATION

Diplomat

Unknown

Unknown

Unknown

Unknown

Unknown

Unknown

Unknown

Unknown

Unknown

- Unknown

Unknown

Unknown

Unknown

Unknown

Diplomat

Diplonat

sigaod

Raymond A. Warren

Raymond A. Warren

Deputy Chief

Latin America Division

---

