Vind“e506-10020 [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992),
ca ais 7 =e eo ao 08
7 . 7 Ny cenexal Gx Re «
ie caer aie : oe
: a Lon 1s your will
“ ‘ . TidAe4ge Q has takw bo ae howe,

: Wldan_—



SECRET

30 October 1962
URGENT

MEMORANDUM FOR: General Marshall S. Carter

At the Executive Committee meeting this morning, the President
directed as follows:

1. CIA do everything possible to insure no refugee or
emigre provocative actions against Cuba are undertaken with or
without our knowledge during the next several days. The Miami
station and the MONGOOSE Task Force should be alerted to exercize
every precaution to see that no unauthorized attempts are made.

This should be done without discussion or disclosure to the refugee groups.

2. CIA should attempt to estop Alpha 66 actions during the
next several days. The President was informed by DCI we have no
contact with or control over Alpha 66. DCI was instructed to attempt
through every resource available to influence Alpha 66 to stand down
operations during the next several days.

3, The activities of Operation MONGOOSE are to be stopped
during the next several days and therefore all prior approvals for
sabotage, infiltrations, guerrilla activities, caching of arms are to be
temporarily suspended. The direction of Operation MONGOOSE will be
reconsidered after current negotiations are completed.

NOTE: After the meeting McCone, Bundy and the AG
discussed the approved plan of sabotaging Cuban ships

or shipping (Item 2-B of Lansdale's memorandum of 10/26)

and it was the opinion of Bundy, DCI and the AG that these

operations: should be suspended for the next seyeral days.
NOTE: General Lansdale was informed by DCI by grey
phone of 1, 2 and 3 above - 10/30 at 11:00 A.M.

4, The President requested that all the principals who are
attending Executive Committee méetings and those in the Departments
who were in intimate contact with the Committee's procedures and
decisions not contact anyone of the Press for the next several days.
Press contacts are to be made by Salinger and Sylvester anda
representative of State. Any necessary Press contacts by CIA, and

these must be kept at a very minimum, perhaps should be made by Col. Grogan.

(This was not mentioned in the Executive Committee meeting.)



13-00000

ae

SECRET

30 Cetober 1962
GRGENT

MEMORANDUM FOR: General Marshall 8. Carter

At the Executive Committee meeting this morning, the President
directed as follows:

1, CIA do everything possible to insure no refugee or
emigre provocative actions against Cuba are undertaken with or
withoet our knowledge during the next several days. The Miami!
station and the MONGOOSE Tack Force should be alerted to exercise
every precaution to see that no unauthorised attempts are made.

This chould be done without discussion or disclosure to the refugee groups.

2. GLA should attempt to estep Alpha 66 actions during the
next several days. The President was informed by DCI we have no
contact with er control ever Alpha 66. DCI was instructed to attempt
through every resouree available to influence Alpha 66 to stand down
operations during the next several days.

3. The activities ef Operation MONGOOSE are to be stopped
daring the next severe] days and therefore all prior approvals for
sabotage, infiltrations, guerrilla activities, caching of arms are to be
temporarily suspended. The direction of Operation MONGOOSE will be
reconsidered after current negotiations are completed.

NOTE: After the mecting MeCone, Bundy and the AG
discussed the approved plan of sabotaging Cuban ships

or shipping (item 2-B of Lansdale's memorandum ef 10/26)

ané it was the opinion of Bundy, PCI end the AG that these

operations should be suspended for the next several days.
HOTE: General Lansdale was informed by DCI by grey
phone of 1, 2 and 3 above - 10/30 at 11:00 A.M.

4. The President requested that all the principals who are

decisions not contact anyone of the Press for the next several days.

Press contacts are to be made by Salinger and Sylvester and a
representative af State. Any necessary Prese contacts by CIA, and

these must be kept at 8 very minimum, perhaps should be made by Col. Grogan.
(This was not mentioned in the Executive Committee meeting.) _


13-00000"

SECRET,

srasssebescaray

| The above has been communicated to you by telephone, This
: memorandum serves to confirm decisions which require implementa-

. | tion by you.
|
Is|
| JOHN A. McCONE
JAM/mfb

Orig & 3ce to addressee
Ice - DCI chrono

DCI #5 file

i
|



SECRET

The above has been communicated to you by telephone. This
memorandum serves to confirm decisions which require implementa-

tion by you.
Ce

JQGHN A. McCONE
Director



13-00090

November 14, 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: General Carter, DDCI

Attached is a copy of a memorandum for my file outlining
policy decision in connection with the Cuban prisoner transaction.
In your absence this memorandum was discussed with Messrs.
Helms, Houston, Miskovsky and McManus, and upon receiving
final approval from higher authority at 1:45, Mr. Houston was
instructed by me to initiate appropriate actions.’

It ie exceedingly important that great care be exercised
te minimize the publicity and to emphasize humanitarian interest
on the part af the United States Government in securing the release
of the prisoners. Both the President and the Attorney General are
anxious that the explanations giventhe Cuban Families Committee
be handled with great care. 1 agree with this and urge that extreme
caution be taken to avoid attribution or CIA implication in this matter.

ED:

John A. McCone
Director

Attachment

JAM:at
1 ec - DCI Chrono
etce - DCI Memoranda
1 ce - Memo for the Record



13-00000

14 November 1962

MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION WITH THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
CONCERNING THE NEGOTIATION FOR THE RELEASE OF THE CUBAN
PRISONERS.

The meeting took place at the residence of the Attorney
General at 10:30 a.m., on Thursday, November 14, at the DCI's

request.

McGone explained that he had had dinner the evening before
with Mr. Edward Foley (former Under Secretary of the Treasury,
legal representative and a Director of the Drug Industry Association).

Mr. Foley had questioned DCI concerning the negotistions
for release of Cuban prisoners in exchange for some 50 million
dollars in drugs, and stated that Mr. Donovan had been in touch with
members of the industry (presumably Pfizer and Merck) in the past
few days, that indications were that the transaction was to be worked
out promptly, and the subject would undoubtedly be discussed at
length at the Industry's Board of Trustees meeting in New York on
November 16th.

Mr. Foley stated that the Industry had no clear understanding
of the Government's position, most particularly in view of Cuban
developments of the last three weeks.

| After explaining to Foley the background of the transaction
I told him that Mr. Donovan had been told to do absolutely nothing
in thie matter and expressed great surprise that the subject was a
topic of current discussion among members of the Industry.

In the meeting with the Attorney General I expressed grave
concern over the situation, pointing out iltion |

dollars on covert deposit in the}: that two Letters
, Of Credit had been , one in tha amount of’ {0 xillion \

dollars :tc ‘ ‘As

long as this money was on deposit and ‘the letters oute: . there -

was a danger of publicity emanating from either Donovan or the drug
industry, or both. Despite the fact that'no official government



SECRET-EVES Gali

connection had ever been admitted, publicity would implicate the
Administration and CIA in the negotiation because of recent press
stories (most particularly the Herald Tribune articles). identifying
Administration and CIA activities and citing the exact amount of

17 million|dollare as representing the Government cost of the drugs.

T pointed out that certain elements of competition between the members
of the drug industry made it almost a certainty that "leaks" would
come. from industry sources as long ae the letter of credit were
outstanding, regardless of Mr. Donovan's denials. -

Furthermore, consummation of the transaction seemed
totally unrealistic in view of current difficulties with Castro and if
an article appeared indicating we were still pursuing thie transaction,
the American public and a great many others would be confused and
disenchanted,

For the above reasons, and feeling that damaging publicity
undoubtedly would appear, I strongly recommended that we arrange
for the. bank to withdraw the: Letters of Credit, . for the withdrawal

: of-a- substantial part of the. money from the (Ban! Also

advise Mr. Donovan that the pursuit of this effort must await a better
climate although our interest remained constant. I urged that
action be commenced today.

The Attorney General, after some discussion involving an
exploration of possible alternatives, agreed with the course of
action.

We agreed that we should carefully explain to the Families
Committee and possibly to Miro Cardona that we were inno way
abandoning our intention to secure the release of the prisoners but
were forced because of circumstances beyond our control to set the
negotiation aside pending further developments on other important
problems involving our Cuban relationship.

McCone discussed the above with Mr. Bundy who personally
approved the action and, in turn, received approval from higher
authority. The latter was communicated to the DCI by telephone
at 1145 p.m.

Copy to General Carter w/
covering memo JOHN A. McCONE

Director



the

TOP Serene

fad
a

November 6, 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr, Cline, DD (1)

SUBJECT: Castro as a Threat to the Americas.

I think that in analyzing Castro's potential in the Western
Hemisphere as covered by paragraphs 9 through and including 21,
we should consider his posture and potential under various alternatives
of possible United States decisions and probable Soviet policies.

Let us assume for the moment that the United States meets
the exact letter of the Kennedy-Khrushchev exchange and no more.
This would mean the withdrawal of IL 28s, the halting of the establish-
ment of a submarine base, and some acceptable form of inspection
verifying the removal and assuring against the reintroduction of
offensive devices, U.S. commits not to invade. At this point U.S.
commitment on propaganda, sabotage, guerrilla activities and other
actions designed to overthrow Castro is not very clear, but I think
that we can assume that such activities if attempted would be no
more successful in the future than they have been in the past, which is

about zero.



TOP SECRET

Having reached this point, the Soviets have at least three
alternatives:

One, they can abandon Castro, reduce military and economic
aid, cut their losses, and in such event Castro would soon collapse.
Current intelligence does not support such a probable Soviet course
of action, otherwise they would not be disposed to leave such quantities
of extremely valuable modern military hardware, including the SAM
sites, communications equipment, and extensive Naval and ground
equipment and a large number of technicians.

Second, they could maintain about the same level of economic
and military support as in the past, although I would feel this could not
be a very reasonable assumption from the standpoint of military support
as the presence of large amounts of additional military equipment, in-
cluding those mentioned above, would necessitate a higher level of
military support than before in order to provide operational readiness,
training, maintenance, spare parts, replacements, etc. This does not
mean more economic supporthithough I think Castro could insist upon
it-on the grounds that Soviet equipment is a burden to him and of course

Dorticos alluded to this in statements in New York.



Te? SECRET
Third, thé Soviets having accomplished one of their objectives,
that of securing a U.S. guarantee against invasion, will increase their
military and economic aid so that all military materiel will be work-
able at all times and the Castro economy will be reasonably well off.
Under each of these alternatives, Castro's posture and his

effect on the United States and other Western Hemisphere countries

will differ vastly and I would suggest that your paper be oriented so
that it will project for the benefit of policy makers the consequences,
favorable or unfavorable, under these several alternatives,

It is my personal opinion that Mikoyan will return to New York

in a few days and will announce an agreement for some perfunctory
Red Cross ground inspection of the missile sites and nothing else,
will deny any intention of a submarine base, will dismiss the IL 28

issue as wholly beyond the Khrushchev-Kennedy agreement, will

indicate that all Soviets are leaving Cuba except economic and
agricultural advisers, and will state most persuasively that the
Khrushchev-Kennedy agreement has been fulfilled to the letter and
demand our non-invasion commitment.

He will then build Castro up and indicate Soviet intention for

supporting in every way and to go right down the line with him,



Castro will feel secure, his political and military structure will be
manageable, and Cuba will be used by Castro and the Soviets more
aggressively in the future than it has in the past in disturbing
Western Hemisphere countries,

This is the situation 1 fear, and I think our policy makers
whose negotiations are trending toward the establishment of a set
of conditions and commitments which will make the third case
mentioned above a probability, should have the benefit of our
thinking as to the consequences, In doing this, equal attention
should be given to the first two alternatives,

In further reference to the paper, the historical background
is excellent, the country by country annex useful, although if time
permitted we might get the chiefs of station to give the current view
of their contacts as Win Scott did, The inventory of equipment is
useful but I propose that it be broken down into three columns, a

pre-July lst, 1962, added since July 1962, and the total as of now.

John A, McCone


26 September 1963
MEMORANDUM
SUBJECT: CIA activities in South Viet Nam

1. Prior to January 1962 the CLA maintained a modest etation
in South Viet Nam, the purpose of which was to support the Ambassador
and Headquarters with reports on the internal situation in South Viet
Nam, the activities of the Viet Cong and the Connmunists and their
threat to the government, and to assist the government in ite internal
security probleme, Amoug other things we trained and equipped
Special Forces whose mission was to conduct a variety of unconventional
activities euch as the infiltration of V.C., centere, interdiction of
supply routes, interfering with V.C. communications, sabotaging
V.C, efferts, harrassment, etc.

The CIA station ereated about a dozen training centers
throughout South Viet Nam ia which eelected nearby villagers would
be trained in community defense and civic action. i issued arma and
thus provided the actual defense of the strategic hamlets created
in the areas. Theva activities were carried on with the support of
the U.3. Special Ferces. As the activities expanted, a determination
wae made te shift prime responsibility to the military, with CIA
in support, and the switch has been accomplished successfully.

About 75,090 South Viet Namese have been trained,


eet

ory
oe
<0
rea
orn

CIA created a South Viet Namese intelligence organisation,
established a civilian intelligence system and trained the personnel.
in adflition the Agency ascisted in the development of intelligence
spparatus within the SVN military.

mm addition a variety of activities were supported designed to
assist the basic objective of winning the war.

Without exception ell CLA pregrams in South Viet Nam were
cosrdinated with the Ambassador and also in Waghington. CIA took
no unilateral actions nor involved {tself in designing policy. CIA has
been represented at all policy meetings in Washington, including NSC
and Executive Committee meetings and all cf the McNamara-Pear!.
Harbor mpetings held to review pregress. The activities of the
station were examined by ail inspection teams euch ac Gensral
Wheeler's mission, General Keulak's several missions,

Mr. Forrestal's missions, etc. At no time prior to recent surge
of critical publicity have CIA's activities in Saigon been reported
other than cooperative and an integral part of an accepted and agreed
policy.
2. CIA Reparting.

In June 1962 I traveled extensively in South Viet Nam.
I reported upon my return that repressive meacures of the Diem/Nhu
regime were causing considerable criticism and that there was

~-2-


13-00000

danger of a coup. This situation wae watched carefully by our CIA
station and st frequent intervels we reported that the image of the
tegime was tarnishing and hence its effectivensas was questionable.
A number of estimates and a great number of reports and appraisals
were issued, each one warning that the deterioration of the regime's
popularity gave tise to sericus question concerning the future trend
of the war and CIA warned that unless corrective measures ware
taken by the regime to impreve its image, it was quite possible
the war would be lost or that a popular uprising would cause the
removal of the regime. For 18 months at frequent intervals rumors
of coups were received by our station and were reported to the
Ambassador and to Waghingten. Throughout thie period our Chief
of Station at the direction of the Ambassador met once every two

weeks with Ngo Dink Nhu, explered. all problems relating to the

-eltuations in which we had s common interest, and reported to the

Ambassador, Contacts were also maintained with many groups in
South Viet Nam, with military leaders and with knowledgeable
citizens,

4 review of the reporting over 18 monthe and resulting
estimates bear out that the Agency consistently warned of the
deteriorating situation and the possible consequences,


13-00000

During this period we also analyzed the progress of the
war and the thrust of cur reporting was to the effect that as the
Amsorican advisers were able to exercias their influsnce on the
Seuth Viet Namese military, and our Embassy and General Harkins
wore able to persuade Diem to recrient and redeploy hie forces,
gradeal but consistent favorable progress was made.

3. Atthtade af the Station and Others

In ony difficult siteation involving guerrilla warfare where
progress can not be measured in territory won or lest, and in
casualtics and prisoners, differences of opinion among observers
arise, Lihewise Americans required to work with a stubborn
and authoritarian regime often become exasperated by the
difficulties invelved. Furthermore Americansaccustomed to cur
civil liberties, freedems, and the rights of the individual aro
shocked by tho conduct of a government which deprives the individual
of these privileges. Finally an American community living among
natives, many of whem. age visiously critical of the government (end
thie ie the cae in Saigon and Hae), are bound to be influenced
by, and to a dagree espouse, these criticisms.

For these reasons there have been cerious differences within
the American community.


13-00000

Within the CIA ctation there are differences of opinion,
Some feal the cause is hopeless with the Diem regime in power.
Others feel it best to go along with the regime until a better one
appeare, The reporting has been, however, consistent and has
coincided with the views of Ambassador Nolting.

Within AID and USIA there have been strong differences
of opinics and the same is true of the Embassy staff. On the
other hand, the military which ia devoted to the single task of
defeating the Viet Cong, had tured ite back on political problems
and concentrated on military problems and have been stesdfast
in refusing te be deterred by internal pelitical issues.

Many people have become highly emotional, have talked
too much and have given the impreasion of very deep splits.

“$e
ae fy een ~ fCEms orchard ~ Thtfes
i i, Cth

2 EC -


4, Situation in the last several weeks.

The Hue incident on May 8th was a serious setback for the

Diem Government. The agreement with the Buddhists on June léth was

decigned to improve the situation. The agreement was never carried
ost. Increasing agitation by the Buddhists culminated in the raids on the
pagodas on August 21. This was carried out apparently at the direction
of Nhu by the Special Forces, some of whem ave in “be Saigon - Hye
area and by the military. In this connection {¢ te to be noted that neither
MACV nor CLA maintained absolute contrel ever the deployment of the
Special Forces and it is to be noted that substantial units of them were
deployed to the north and engaged in their regular assignments.

The action on August 21 broke the camel's back as far as those
in the United States Gevernment who felt that the cause would be lost if
the Diem regime remained, Therefore, a cable was sent to the Ambasoador
instructing him to insist on effective reforms including reducing the influence
and authority of the Nhus and if thie could net be sccemplished by pereuatiba
to take such action as would accomplish this objective even though it meant
removing the regime.

The fault in this instruction wae that there existed at the time no
firm estimate ae to the possibility of successfully reforming tha regime
and no plan for a successor regime.

At this point CIA was asked by the Ambassador and General
Harkins to query certain military leadere and te determine whether the

exorgy 8

Nees


resentment had created a body of opinion among the military, the Security
Forces and the public that would carry off a coup and establish a new
government. CIA reported thie condition did net exist. During the week of
Auguet 26 and without taking a position as to whether the regime should or
should act be removed, the Agency urged care and deliberation. It pointed
out that to act precipitously and without assurance of success a civil war
would inevitably result, the war against the Viet Cong would be lost and
the Communiate would take over.

Thies position was highly exasperating to those who wished to
move precipiteusiy. It is fer this reason that the advocates of action to
move precipitously withost coordination and without intelligence. support

_ are now carrying on a campaign against the Central Intelligence Agency
and the Station.


2 September 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: General Carter

You will note from the very brief memorandum of my
discussion with Secretary Rusk that he made two requests --
the first, a study of the reasons for lack of action of the
Communists in Southeast Asia. This is a matter I discussed
at this morning's meeting and I hope that we can have an OCI
memorandum on my return,

The second question was concerning clandestine channels
to Castro, the Chinese Communists and Hanoi. This should be
given serious thought by DDP, Each situation differs, Iam sure
we could, if we desired, open up a channel to Castro. The
Peiping and Hanoi situations are more difficult. In one respect
there is a channel open to Peinine through Warsaw, but it is not
effective. Perhaps th ould have some mounts f
on this. Also, there is a channel to Hanoi through the
representative on the ICC; however this obviously is an "official"
channel and is not very productive, I think it would be well to
go over this matter with Dick Helms when he returns.

Secretary Rusk expects comments on both these points
next week,

Attached:
Copy of MR on Discussion with Secretary Rusk
