)-10072 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY assess RECORDS ACT OF 1992
, Cote

cea

29).

Ns “8
"CY uncassiries =) DERMAL

SUBJECT: (Oprionel)

FROM:

Nov 25 1963 °

‘emcers | COMMENTS (womber each comment to show from whore
Drow a line ecrons column after wach coment)

TO: (Officer

fm G10 ES" C] secret 1) CONFIDENTIAL «= [[] (NERNAL, Q UNCLASSIFIED

EPRODUCTION ecarsa

p ci AGE 3 OF a3
__ PROMBTTED ee

sg



13-00000

- " REPRODUCTION
a PTE

Fons )303
rev

DEFERRED

——-—
OPERATIONAL

ROUTINE IMMEDIATE

<i
. “WAVE 3149
MEX DIR MEXI .

/, Le ODFOAM ADVISED WAVE THAT PHONE CALL FROM ONE JOSE SAN ANTONIO
Hat ‘A IN MEXICO CITY (PHONE 186334) TO DRe. enrtipfhunedPoRTuoNDo,
MIAMI, WAS MONITORED 24 NOVEMBER 63... CONVERSATION WAS IN SPANISH
AND GIST OF IT IS: PLAN.OF CASTRO CARRIED FORWARD, BOBBY IS NEXT.
SOON THE ATOMIC BOMBS WILL RAIN AND. THEY WILL NOT KNOW FROM WHERE.

2... WAVE TRACES NUNEZ REVEALS RE “SUBJECT 201-312304.
G

|
CABACAe HOWEVER, AMOT-2 ADVISED CABACA IS PROBABLY JOSE
Mi
YSAINZ, DPOB CIRCA 1918 PROVINCE LAS VILLAS, CUBA
CURRENTLY RESIDES MEXICO CITY, PO BOX 3000 AND HAS.SAME PHONE . .
NO» PARA 1 ABOVE. HE IS NOW OCCUPIED WITH OBTAINING MEXICAN VISAS
FOR PERSONS. DESIRING LEAVE CUBA. HE IS PRONOUNCED BATISTIANO

AND RIGHTIST WITH TIES TO BATISTA GROUPS IN UsSe AND HEADS THE
ALIANZA PARA EL PROGRESS DE AMERICAe
“3e LOCAL ODFOAM BEING INFORMED RE PARA 2 INFO. -

DP of
19{-$73

25/23352

INCOMING.

REPRODUCTION wears

: ; AoE Y OF 23
__ PROWIBITED cn eee

