Pepe eee et

104-10169-10020|

[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

v

WISP APLT " SeE-C-R-E-T

Chief of Station, JMWAVE Wo noting mENUALO
0, ‘aay GouneD

Chief, Task Porco/d

TENOR REQUIRED - AERCRENCES

REFERENCE: DIR 48927 (dated 21 March 1962)

Transaitted herewith are the recoumendattons of the LCFLUITER
people for the debriefing of Evilio DUQUE Mi: DUQUE"
questionable LCFLUITER exan. a a z

(EHD OF DISPATCH)

Attachments
As Stated, B/W (1)
i

eet pee

(Storr

Distribution: 4

irr Gikandeke™ im 977 |

é  ———

EID/Ft

j : ‘i. Fesssisaee | f a yw - Kee OZ ||
fhe = a E
wa

DISPATCH | :



Recaxmendations for debriofing of Evilio DUE Miyer

1 Complete Diographie data (£111 out « MQp ev ae vWD 2B, ship,
8, All politioal affiliations ines 1956 = all organtsstions to whtoh
he bolonged or with uhich he was in synpatty,
3e Outline military and para-military caresr - organizations = names of
- Separiore = musbar of surordinates = hia sctivitios = his misctons ant how
ho socouplished then = his failures = denand specifics. :
be Reletives inside Cuber their ast end current political sympathiss -
wore any inpriscnod or, shot by Batiata? by Fidel?
$- Arrest record: by Batista = by Fidel = by Grininal police,
te pelttical or ccores police ~ Crimes he bas somitted (emggling, theft,
sudder, rape, use of narcctica). Has he been blecknailed? Does hs know ange
cas who could blockail hin? Secret crince? Have any of his relatives ow
Seionds been arrested for these orince? ‘ Sone aes
© G. Comteote with Cosnuntat Party! nenbere or cyupstiiinare © moka dtise
“tection between 26th of duly Hovanent, ad CPs Did he attend OP mestings or
86 daly mectings. Doss he know any GP nenbere? Was be ever asked to Join
the Party? Did he over agree with the aing of the Party?
Te. Contacte with Cuban Intelligence Gorvice (DIER-J-2) = aver arrested

Wy then = friente or comvarkoro arrested by then = did’ be evor work for than

OF preaice to work for than = betray anyone to thee

18 40 voted that the LOMWTTIN axontsar whe oxnined DUGIE An January
1968 characterised hia @ possoseing Limited intelligence, and the exaniner
bad very little beokground information on hin en which to base detailed intere
Fogablon, DVGIR's unfaversble reactions in the cumination were pot explained
in any way by the eubsoob, whe insisted he was completely truthfule A detatled
debriefing should provide the next Sporator with the enscatials fer corroberation,

