“"yo4-10234-10107~- ‘| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

XNESSAGE FORM

rorau cones, a

ue i/ E.1, sanarsox/nea ]
att WH/C/CA/PP Cwivex

att §518/1404 eho ee.
pais) A Gene wes ras do,

. Coste 1050 SMMAVE

fact: DIRECTOR : fan 7
mer ile ® Dror ve. FILE O RD COPY eg cae. calpeep olice ft
to MORT os KO WAVE CTE OR ie peeriieee H

ct REF: USIA NONT TELEGRAM 134 TO USIA HQS, (NOT SENT WAVE).
b+ |. 4, REQUEST MONT PASS TO USIA FOLLOWING INFO RE REF:
y 2" AMLASH-1 WAB IN MONT 3-70 7 JUNE 1960 AS GUEST OF FEDERATION
OF URUGUAYAN UNIVERSITY STUDENTS, HE HELD A PRESS CONFERENCE
AT FEUU HEADQUARTERS; SPOKE AT THE UNIVERSITY AND KET PRIVATELY
“ WITH FEUU LEADERS, EE FOLLOWED THE CASTRO PROP LINE uspia pp
SLOGANS AS: FATHERLAND OR DEATH; DEATH TO mratrons; ant wif ;
-BTUDENTS SERVE BASTARD J 0 INTERESTS, HE APPARENTLY DISCUSSED wie
STUDENT LEADERS THE FORTHCOMING L.A, YOUTH CONFERENCE To BE BED,”
If BAVA IX JULY 1860, ae eerie

FROP BAS CORCEATRATED Of
7 Ghor ktOT alloxe UNIVERSITY STUDENTS AND THRIR DISCREET BUT: OFEX
DEFIANCE oF“G.0.c, _ CASTRO OBLIGED INSTITUTE. PREVENTIVE AND PRECAUTIC
MEASURES, “BENDING STUDENTS TO CANE FIELDS AND PLACING UNIVERSITY UNDER -
: TIGHTER CONTROL. KUBARK REFRAINING FROM MENTION AMLASH-2 ALLEGED
‘CONNECTION KUBARK,. 7.) ee if
° ADDED. BIO para 4-1 BET

GACTING UNREST, £G1TATICN



ae : + D0 Ww Dementommnca Oyee no

: Beaches Fons Dery ROOK
ToTay copies =. =

fn caer ROUTING mn
ee Ll, Ono SECRET

Ono moex
Ornewmcerucna  *

mou: DIRECTOR - -*
fours: purceites

vf. WE/C/xO.
‘wa/4/ur. warren (@hone

AGTHERTICATIn®.
erricen
