# 104-10149-10034

## Page 1

104-10149-10034

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Office of legislerive Conniel

THE DIRFCIOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGION, D. C. 20505

OLC 79-0113/V

30 March 1979

OIC RECORD COPY

HISCA

Mr. G. Robert Blakey

Caiur Counsel and Director

Select Conmittee on Assassinations

Mouse, uf Representatives

Washington, D.C.

20515

Dear Bob:

Herewith are comments on the new version of the Defector

paper and the Cuban paper. Those comments were prepared in my

absence by those on whom I have leaned during this phase of the

inquiry,

I note the

"Mongoose" reference, a basic factual comment.

I also note the "golden boy" reference. Someona may have referred

to the man that way, but it was not a categorization in general use.

the interestine conding us more literic thad reliable for

should be protecter.

Sincerely,

S. D. Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator, HSCA

Enclosures

Distriation:

Orig - Adse

- SA/DDE1

1 - Rininger, 06c

- Sullivan,

- Sturbitts, LA/DD0

1 - Holmes

CI Staff

- 016/ Subj

1 - OLC/Chrono

GLC/SOB/ksn

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

21196

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Defector Paper

The Forward. No comment.

Morris and Hollie Block.

No corment.

Harold Citrynell. No comment.

Bruce Frederick Davis. No comment.

Shirley Dubinsky. No comment.

Joseph: Dutkanicz. No comment.

Martin Greendlinger. No comment.

Nicholas Petrulli. No comment.

Libero Ricciardelli. No comment.

Vladimir Sloboda. No comment.

Robert E. Webster. No comment.

Lee Harvey Oswald. No comment.

Addendum - Debriefing Practices

Page 18/19, paragraph 190. Refer to letter to Mr. G. Robert

Blakey, dated 26 March 1979 re subject.

Page 20, paragraph 193. Put period at end of line 4 after

debriefing; delete "conducted by military intelligence".

Page 21, paragraph 194, second line. Delete "using Department

of Defense

cover"

Page 21, paragraph 194, fifth Tine. Dolete "in the American

Enbassy in Copenhagen". Replace deletion with "abroad"

Pal: 27, sinth Tine. Delete "his" and replace with "che

former's"

Pege 21, Tine P. Delete "Angleton" and replace deletion with

"CIA"

Page 22, Paragraph 195, second 1102.

Insort "CIA" befora

"representative"

Deletc:

"From the Cla's Office of Operations

and SR/6"

---

## Page 3

4-00000

Veciana 21, paragraph 176, line 3. Delote "propaganda for".

Veciana. 27, paragraph 177, lines 9.10. Delete "in the area of

psychological warfare".

Veciana 27a, paragraph 179, line 4. Place period after "until

his retirement"

Delete in June 1973.

Veciana 27a,

paragraph 179, line 5. Insert after "nuch of that.

time"

"as a senior staff official". Delete "on the Covert Action

Guidance Staff".

Page 2, Bolt, Insert, paragraph 189. Substitute "Joseph Langosch"

for true nane lal Swensor.

Veciana 31, paragraph 201, line 6. Insert "contribution" after "$500";

line 6 should then read:

"a $500 contribution from a wealthy Puerto

Rican [with whom the CIA was then developing a relationship] during a

meeting convened in Puerto Rico by Veciana to raise funds for ALPHA

66; a U.S Army directed operation"

Delete "financier and industrialist,

Codename [SKEVER-1, with whom the CIA had a long-standing operational

relationship". Four lines later; beginning with "or the industrialist"

delete remainder of paragraph.

Paragraph should read as follows: "and

even though the Agency later used the Puerto Rican as a conduit for the

passage of U.S. Government funds to selected anti-Castro groups, it

appears that in Veciana's case, the money was provided solely by the

Puerto Rican from his personal funds.

Veciana 32, paragraph 204. Sentence beginning "The available documentary

record" should

read as follows:

"The available documentary record was

sufficient to indicate that U.S. Army intelligence had a keen interest...."

Section. VI. Brigade 2505.

Page 2, line 2. We point out that the information given in this quote

is not accurate. U.S. Army special forces, not the CIA, trained the Brigade.

Page 2, paragraph 235, line 5. Delete the "CIA chose". Line should then

read "a yound physician was chosen who then organized....

Page 2, paragraph 235. Sentence beginning "His name was flannel Artime"

should read

as follers: "His name was tamel Artime who had flad Cuba the

previous December.

Page 3, line 2. Replace CIA vith b.%. Government,

Page 6, paragraph 243, line 2.

The Agency prefers that you delete

the

phrase

"who had bocone known as the CIA':

"golden boy'".

Section VIl. MUC

Page 6, paragraph 202, Tine %. Substitute "tis country" for "the

Host Gorans"

---

## Page 4

4-00000

9096.

Page 8, paragraph 263, line 1o Delcte Micarasuan.

Page 8

, lirie 3. Delete Venezuélan. Substitute

"another

Lotin American official"

Section VIlL. JUKE

Page 4, line 1. Substitute U.S. Government for CIA.

Page 4, line 2. Place a period after "potential". Delete

remainder of sentence.

Section IX. DRE

Page 2, paragraph 290, Tine 6. Substitute ü.S. Governgent

for CIA.

officials including Use shore readies contre em aye, ente

CIA Operations Chief Richard Helns, Who told them....

Section on David Ferrie

Page 12a, paragraph 422, line 3. Substitute U.S. Government for

CIA.

Page 12a, paragraph 422, line 7. Substitute U.S. Government for

ciA.

Section on 544 Camp Street

Page 9. Suggest the following change in lines 6 through 12:

"In September 1960, the CIA considered using Guy Bannister Associates

for the collection of foreign intelligence, but ultimately decided

against it." Delete sentence beginning "the idea was dropped

clash with the Mayor". Foutnote 54 therefore becomes void. Statement

made in Footnote 64 can be lised as Footnote 65.

P00: 6, Footnote 98. Footnoto should read "CIA nemorandom to

Piraclor: 1/9/64"

• Delete all rest

LooLnotes. Leciana

lage A, Footnote 94. Delete clossinication (Secret,.

Page 7, Footnote 18%. Delete Cruo naue Crozier.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Page 8, Footnote 226. Delete Confidential.

Page &, Footnote 236. Substitute "document" for "file".

Footnoies. JGCE

Page 2. Footnote 15. Delete "section on JGCE (Secret)".

Page 4. Footnote 57. Delete Confidential.

Page 4. Footnote 58. Delete "for Sierra".

Page 6.

Footnote 75. Delete Cuba.

Page 7. Footnote 91.

Delete CAS-63-154.

Footnotes.

544 Canp Street

Page 4. Footnote 53. Deléta "on Guy Bannister".

---

## Page 6

4-00000

Cuban Paper

Section 1. "The Ingredients of an anti-castro Cuban Conspiracy" is referred

to subsecuently as

"V".

V15, last line. We point out that this sentence which continues

on to the next page, Vl6, is inaccurate. Operation Mongoose was not

initiated by CIA.

It was set up and chaired by the Attorney General.

V18, paragraph 42, first sentence. We suggest the following rewrite:

"It was the dilAVE Station which monitored the anti-Castro groups".

V26, paragraph 55, tenth line. Replace CIA with U.S. Governient.:

Section III. Antonio Veciana Blanch

Veciana 3, last three lines. It is not true that CIA at any time

recruited Lopez-Fresquet.

03

Veciana 5, paragraph 126, line 5.

Delete name of Joe d'Acosta;

replace name with [naned CIA employee].

Veciana 16.

Delete entire paragraph 150. Policy stated here is

untrue; in addition, last sentence reveals fact of CIA use of State cover

for Agency activities. Kail could not bring any Cuban into the ClA Station

ared.

Veciana 20, paragraph 159, line 6. Put period arter 1904, Delete

"and became

an agent for the CIA".

Veciana 22, paragraph 163, line 7 Place period arter vale. Delete

"whom he knew to be working for the CIA". This portion of the statement is

inaccurate.

19s Man pso, peragranh 111. Delete secent sentence begining "until

principal orea of expertise....

The Agency considers this

claccified information obtained during an executive session.

Vocian: 26, first lino. " Phillips us surving in Havanna", Delei:

minter of contence, tick in the sand carraraoh, delete reterence wu

Pecten City, Chile, Dominicao Republic, Prozil, and Venezuela.

Veciana 26, paragrant 176, Tine 10. Place period after "groups".

Dolate reminder of Santenca.

Vectana 26, peragraph 175, Line 12. Delete "the psychological

santana" and replace with "cortair"

Veciane 26, paragraph 170, line 14. Delete "the DRE's propaganda".

Prateen with "thess"

---

## Page 7

4-00000

Page 24, paragraph 198, sixth line. Delete "collection Division of".

Footnotes

Morris Block. See letter to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 March 1979

re subjrct.

Marold Citrynell. See letter to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 March

1979

re subject.

Bruce Frederick Davis.

See letter to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 March

1979 re subject.

Shirley Dubinsky. No conment.

Joseph Dutkanicz. See letter to ir. G. Roberi Blakey, dated 26 March

1979 re subject.

Martin Greendlinger.

1979 re subject.

See letter to Mi. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 March

Nicholas Petrulli. See letier to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 March:

1979 re subject.

Libero Ricciardelli. See letter to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 March

1979 re subject.

Viadinir Slobodà. See letter to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 farch

1979 re subject.

Robert E. Webster. See letter to Mr. G. Robert Blakey, dated 26 March

1979

re

subject.

Lee Harvey Oswald. Footnote 300. Replace Golitsyn with "y" and

Deryabin with

"y".

Footnote 422.. See Footnote 53. Delete "CiA nores Davis".

Footnote 435. Replace "Tannent H. Bagley" with "DC/SB"; Golitsyn

with "y"

Footnote 137. Cocenote should read "attachment to CIA concendum,

1/27/78. Delete all rest.

Footnote 430. Delete footnote; replace with "Ibid".

It appears to contradict the fact that not all ie

files were unexpurgated.

---

## Page 8

4-100000

Footnote 441. Staff summary. Delete remainder of footnote..

Footnote 442. Stuft stomary. Delete remainder of footnote.

Footnote 443. Scarf sumary. Delete remainder of footnote.

Footnote 444.

Staff summary. Delete remainder of footnote.

Footnote 446. Staff summary. Delete remainder of footnote.

Footnote 451. Steft summary.

Delete rensinder uf footnotes

NOTE:

We note that you have changed footnote numbers. You will have to

correlate old numbers appearing in

our menorandun with your new numbering

system.

---

