/104-10780-10093| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

16 January 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Jobn H. Crimmins _ i:
Coordinator of Cuban Affairs ‘

SUBJECT: Ares Shipment for Ray :
igen ;

The following message hae been received |through our i

rom Santo Domingo: i

“I conveyed points enumorated in Section B of
Reftel to Retd and Cace: Jan 14, Reid indtcated
some of what I told him confirmed information already
communicated to him by Ray. Reid fully understood
that if he went ahead with transaction, it would be
et his own risk and U.8. position, if origin became
public, would havo be that thie normal export to

“Reid did not repeat not ask ua to deny export
license, evidently preferring to investigate matter
further before making hig decision. His primary

} concern is whother onward shipment to Venezuela has

. approval Venezuelan Govt. He said in absence diplo~

watic relations this difficult ascertain. He lacked
sufficient confidence in Venezuelan Consul General
bere or in hia own in Yenezucla to use them ag
channels. After I discouraged him from expecting
us to ascertain attitude Venezuelan Government for
Bip, he indicated he would probably ask hig Asbassador
in Washington to sound out his Vesezuelan colleague

there.

“Reid's concern about assuring onward shipment
stems largely from his great respect for lethal
qualities of weapons involved and fear they might
find way into wrong hands here. He said he would
not allow them to be uncrated here or broken down
into packs of sixty cach which he Indicated was form
in which they would be shipped eveatually to Cuba.

8k


“For foregoing reasona, Reid indicated he is
adasantly opposed to having weapons sent to Cuba
directly from D.R. He also repeated an earlier.
statement that he was not permitting exiles to
movo directly from D.R. against Cuba. Yet because
of sympathy for anti-Castro causo, and on humani-
tarian grounds as well, ho would like to be helpful
in facilitating arms transshipment via Venezuela.”

John L. Hart

