# 104-10167-10387

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10167-10387

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURNTO CIA

Backgreund Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

то

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASS

LATION TOP AND BOTTON

L'SCLASSIFIED

'FIDENTIAL LE SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

MAME AND ADDRESS

AMITIALS

DATE

Deputy Chies, 34/4 1!

or.

int

Sr

ACTION

APPROYAL

COMMENT

CONCERRENCE

Remarks:

CIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

IXFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOKMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Gonsult chion with

C/vIt agreed a male

conta typhoo

beth. Vario

alves derelasments.

it meltiny Phelps Who ot

те sle

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: MAME. MOCHINE ANTO FAIONE NO

LSCLISSIFIED

OYFIDESTIAL

SECRET

(10)

-0-34178

M/BR

---

## Page 2

14.00000

de Vasona

SEGNET

7 July 1201

MIRIN POR THE SEE

SUBJECTS TONy VAROId

on tils date the captioned Subject called thi sterile

maber at ine Security Offico ani roquestod soreano to call

bia on E'Seatir: 2-0300, 35to 707 at Hashiniton, FoG.

• Inasrach as Mr. Robert Chauberlain has been des! sto

Is tho replacesent for jerry Drollor 1n l1n1s0n batters vit

METO CAT)I, HI. Chasbertain las notified relativo to the

Instant ell.

3. Toon nostflcation, Mr. Chamberlain acrisod that Toy

VAHUA vas not sripciated as one of the cubans with unon so

should Halson. Fouater, 1t was suggested to his that he right.

vish to check the matter out. ulth both Mr. Iroller and Cal.

8. 0. KLIE.

JOB-PY P. LARZAY

Ordos, Handseoursty

SECECT

2/8R

---

