page gedieindibs
V04-10834-10190] [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)
sian : CONFIDENTIAL

ect om: X1
Dav Frm: COV 1-82

TO:

FROM:

OFFICE: CSIHRG

DATE: 10/20/97 10:08:23 AM
SUBJEC’ Re: Release Issue/JFK Board

Following is in response to questions raised by the EXDIR:
1. Members of JFK Board:

Chairman: Judge John Tunheim (Federal District Court, Minnesota)

Four other members: Henry Graff; History Professor Emeritus, Columbia U.
Kermit Hall; Dean of Humanities, Ohio State
William Joyce; Assoc. Librarian, Princeton U.
Anna Nelson; History Professor, American U.

2. Intermediate steps before appeal to President:

a) We are discussing our concerns with JFK Board Staff, and will ask the Board to
reconsider its decision.

b) We'll propose that a senior Agency officer brief the Board on the sensitivity of

3. Who would make the appeal to the President ?

Thus far, the process calls for the Agency's General Counsel to forward the appeal
to the White House Counsel, with the approval of the EXDIR andjor DCI.

4, Has there been an appeal to the President before ?
CIA has submitted one appeal, in early 1996. The issues concerned identification of.
certain European stations and liaison relationships. The White House directed the
Board and the Agency to “work it out", which was done. After the ADDO briefed the
Board, a compromise was reached.

The FBI has submitted three appeals, none of which was successful.

5. Does ISCAP have arole? YO

CONFIDENTIAL


ce:

. CONFIDENTIAL

Thus far, ISCAP has had no role with regard to JFK, as far as we are aware.

Regina A. Genton @ DCI, Brian S. Latell @ DCI, Edmund Cohen @ DA, James R. Oliver @ DAALi
DCI, J. Barry Harrelson @ DCI

CONFIDENTIAL

