# 104-10101-10155

## Page 1

104-10101-10155

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MARSALS AN MELON

'?!!

SIS CEM

138

: 161

CIT: 248

ROUTIN.

BRUN LOND AMMA ADDI BERN HADR AND ALGE DOIN

XUNI BAGE TEAR LISB COPS RASO BEIR LEOP MEXI YRON LIVI

DAKA RABA MOBI HADO VIX LARI TMI BADO HID AT. SUD

THIS CYRU TIHE CHS& ONIO CAIR NOGA PACY GAVA LONE FRAN

3E

TARI

87621

NEAR BABT - APRICA BRIEF

(MOTORN IN BLANTS, REMAINING INFO RELBASABLE TO LIASSON.)

1. CYPRUS: //EXPLOSION DE A BOMB AT TEX BABE OF A SONUMENT

TO A GASSA CYPRIOT IN TICOSIA ON 3 DEC IS LIKELY TO CONTRIBUTE 1U

A FURTHAR DITERIORATICN IN PILATIONS BETNERS THI CRETE AND TURKISH

CYPRIOT COMMUNITIES, THE INCIDENT FOLLONED PREBIDENT RAXARIOS'

TORNAL,: PUT STILL UNPURLICITRO, PRRSRITATION TO TURKERA CIPRIOT VICT

PRESIDHIT LUCHUL ON THI GEEBIS' DEMANDS FOR ALVISION OF THE CON

SEL1UXIC}, 1920N9 Т94Т І ЗИТРУ СУР21ОT РАДАНІІТАД! ТДС НІ-

CINTLY HAS BEXX HACETVIN INTENSYTA TRAININS UMBRE & ONUTE ART

OFFICER STATIONED ON CHERUS ANE ANOTHER INDICATION OF THR INCHEASINGL!

2. BOYPT ~ SAUDI ARABIA: CAIRO MAY BE PREPARIMA A MAJOR PRO-

+0029233961

AUTHEN

ANCORT

torago: 189131016

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING DEFICE IS PACHIRITER.

159,85

---

## Page 2

DANC

HOLDHO WINNI

GiN:

th 42404 2 0002

ROUTiNE

01.

INFO

87021

KELATION SIP, TRIS VERK BORN TAX

ГaE10Нa

CORONE IN QUDI ARARLA AND TO DE PAS, A ISAME APIELD THERE

AB HIFRRRANTINA US LAFLATTATION AND MANI

To: (com)

3. IRAQ: !!ANTI-BAATIZET ONFICIAR AND ME

MS:0F THE GOVERN-

IT RATS SAGER TO ELONIMATE BARTHLOT APARE LA TS ROGIAR. I

1M01E RUTHLE ALMISTER ON CORRINICATIONS, A LAADRE IN THE

ROBERATY FACTION DE THE FINT?, HAS MITH RARED OUS ON OPICS ANTI

EXILÃO TO BEIRUT KITA RIVERAL ABBOCIATES, BANTRITT VICE PREBIDENT

BALA KEPOREEOLY 18 ALEO LEATINO TUS COPRIAT, MADAX FIERITI, A STRONG

BAATHIRT VHO BOLDS TIL ELY DITSTS ALMIRTAY DEBT, HAS REQUESTED

A BRITISH VIRA.!!

//РИТАВШИ ТОВ 1 КОЕ АСЛІН ВЛЛТНІВТО ТІТІ ЧОІШ РОВІТЬ

OP PONTA RATS ATTA GIUS ITI INORE "ARAS NATTORALINT ARTY OSTICKRS

MATT AALT NAR APPARE TY RIPOLESTIÙ iN TELL ACTION PERIOSS TES BAATI

НЕГ РЕЗ доСЯ ! Пе ха! із пор то сивой. і

Ma; Rica? i M11730094579

= 570 = presta

1JJJ

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CLASSADED MESSAGE

&.1.

-3-

1NE8128

8!""

/ABILE TAX ANTI-OUTERS PACTION NON APPEARE TO WIVE SEE 76Z!

RAND, TAK FATE OF ATE DIVIGION CONMANDER NASRAT IB NOS CHITALY. A

DEDICATED BAATIISI, II RIFIATRINI HAS SURROUNDAD BAGHDAD IN THE SE

PECTATION Of & SHONDONR, IF EE STILL RETAINS HIN CONTAND MR MAY

ATTEXPT TO REDRESS THE PRESENT BITUATION. I/

I/THE DECAY OF THE BAATHISI POSITION IN IRAQ IS ALMOUT CERTAIN

TO FURTHER UNDERMINE THE POBITION OF TER PARTY IN HIT SIRIA.

4. SOMALI: //A RASH OF RAIDE TROY THE NEIGHJORING SOMALI REPUB...

LIS INTO KEITA 'O MORTHRASTERN REGION MAY BE THE START OF A GUERRILLA

CAMPAION TO DENUUSTRATE THAT THE REGION'S BORALI. HABITANTS ARE DE-

TERMINED TO SECEDE FRON MENTA. I I

1/IN NOT, CROUPS OF ARNED SONALIS CONDUCTIO AT LEABT TIMELI

PLATINO RAIDS INTO LENYA FROM SAFE HAVENS ACROSS THE SOMALI DOTES.

BRITISH POLICE ESTIMATE THAT OVER 300 SOMALIS SAVE BEEN INVESTED IN

THE INCURSIONS AND THEY FELL THAT TAX RAIDERE' RIFLES AND CRIMADEE

PROBABLY CAME FRON SOMALI POBLICE STOCIS, RADIO HOGADISCIO HAS LONG

BEANED PERIOLIE PACHAVANDA BROADCASTS INTO THE NORTHEASTERN REGION.!!

//SOMALI OUTERNMENT UNTIL INiN RAVE CATEGORICALLY DENIED IN

OLIGATING THE ATTACA: = : - CLINÚ LIRAIRLOS FOR OPERATIONS IS RETTA.

THERE IS NO HARD EPTPERC: IN MÃILES THESE, DENIALS: THE MOGADISCIN

ETRIEREEEET =-

¡TIAN THE ISSUIG OFFICE IS PROHIBITEO

---

## Page 4

CLASSH DID

1.0;.

14:2 :

П NO INDEX

11 FILE IN L'S FILE. NEI

DEFERRED

INDIS:

INFO

-PACI TOTA

GuE DR. 37621

COTINENT, HOMEVER, IN PACTS UTTA DERPTESKS «NA

13 IN

MARCH, ANO MAY BOOS THEZ CONPENZO TO MARRR DONE DIRRET MARRSAL

ASSEIZURER, ITES A MIST ANOTHI OR MATIRIAZ BUPPORT FOR TER DIE-

BIDKATE COBRA NIBELS IN A PARTONINO QUENDINGA MAN NITI A LSVERE

5. NIGBR: NIGER PINSTIN SIONT'S CO

ARVATIVE NOTKE HAS

BES SHANÃG BI THE SECONDLL NESTATER OF ITS ANSHONITY BY THE CON-

MANDING OTPICKA OR A KEY ARSTY COMPANY, ATTESSA ORTURINS INE ONFXCER'8

REMOVAL, PREBUMABLY BACAUSE HE HAD AGITATEO HER CENTAIN SIASFITS

FOR THE AXAT, DIORI MAS FORCED TO BACK DUNH VARN THE OFFICER AT

HES MEN MUTINIED. AN ACRESIANT REPORTEDLY HAS BUSH VORKAD OUT BY

INTIRMEDIARTER. BUT THE ARMY UNT KIHAINS IN CAMP MCAR TIE CAPITAL.

AND TYR INTTITIDNS OF ITS COMRATURE ANS UNCIRAX, (CONN)

B. TORERT: THE TUNETBA CABIXST CRIBIS PERSISTO, PARTME

MININTER THONY IS MANEUVEXITG TO SIAN THAT TEA OPPORITION JUSTICI.

PARTICIPATING ON DUE POSHÃI BY BIS NEPUBLICAN FDUPLES PARTY. CI!!!

FOLITICAL LRADERS LOU ON S SATIONAL' CRALITIDA UN ALl FiTTiES.

-.-a-.-..

REFACELET EN GIAER THANIE SUUSS CHFICE S FECHISED

---

## Page 5

RED MECCASE

/r.: eor..

yes:

CHE DAR 87621

19000

PAGE FIVE

1: ANXISTAN: THE DRATH OT TOPATER PRIVE MINIATER BUNRANARO:

DEPRIVIS OPPOBTIION FONCES IN PALISTAN DE TAB QUE LRADER ARIS TO

TRITE PAZK AGAINST INX AYUS RAGINE. THE ORFOBITION HAS ALRIADY

DISHIANTIND Y ТНІ ООТІН'& INPASSBIVI SHONING IN КИСЛНГ

BY-BLASTIONS, ALTHOUGE SONSUPPOSITION LEATHER NAY THY TO UJI THI

JI7S UE BUERAVANNY & DIATE DO FOCUS ASTINEDINE ERNTINENT, THE BASIC

INFECT PROBABLY WILL HE TO DISCOSPATI TEN OPPOSITION STILL FULTHER.

(COMP)

8, CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE): THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN BRASUAVILLS

REMAINS COMPUSED AND HIGHLY UNSTABLE AS THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNHENT

PREPARES FOR A CONSTITUTIONAL REFERENDUM AND BLECTIONS.

BUTH TIL NOW CORSTITUTION AND THE CANDIDATZS FOR THE MATIONEL

LEGISLATURE, WHO HUN UNOPPOSED, MILL PROBABLY BE STRONGLY ENDORSEI

BY THS VOTERS ON B DEr.

THE SUPERIOR PRESTIGE DP HOISTTE PHOVIBIQNAL COVERKHBRI LAADER

HABBAMBA-DERAT RAY SICINE HIS SINCTION TO THE PRESIDENCY TIEN AN

ELICTORAL COLLEGE FILM THAT TI

SVIR, I8 SOT CRITATE LYN YY TO MAGIC- FIN, FUNDS INE PRESINSTI

+=216-20-9840

HaRE

Thais

MERGUING CHACE IS PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 6

0oi:

SA::

48: 491

I iS INDEX

I FILE IN CS FILE NO.

• . ідар :

1:.? :

LATERARE

INFO

-PAGE BIX-

CITE DIA 87621

"ILL ACTUALLY BE ABLE TO HIBLD.

à FUSIXE OS LEFTIST FATHISTE A TONTE IRATERS ABS ANONS TIE

55 LEGIBLATIVE CAMDIDATES, SOME CY TUESE LANTERNS KAY CIT IMPONTANT

KINISTIAIAL POSTS WHIN THN CABINET IS PORKED LATI TALB MONTH, THES

PROBABLY MILL PASES THE MEN ETHANIEST SO ASSET A:MORE RECEPTIVE

ATTITUDE TOEARD THS SOVIET BLAC ANI MAY CALL FOR IS LARLY

THY SATISTS HAY ALSO MIX TO EXPLOIT TX TINX BITUATION THICH

HAS ASCEILI DEVELOPED REGANDING MRIGIDORINE CABINDA, MIBRE PORTENUÕE

POLICE PURRUINE RATIONALIAT INEURGINTS MATI CRORETO THE DORDER INTO

THIS CONCO ON REFUERAL RACINT OCCABIONS, THERE JAVE SELM CLASTES

BETTEE PARTI

I PUNTUGUESE AID CONSO ARTY TEDOPR. (COMP)

9. MIDDLE LAST OIL: MAJOR INTERNATTONAL ZU OIL COMPANILE AND

SECASTARY GENERAL ROUEANI OF THE ONGAFIZATION OF MATROLITH EXPORTING

COUNTRITS (OPAC) STILLE FAVI NOT REACHED AGREEMENT IN THEIR ARGOTIÀ.

TIONA NALAADINE IMALAILA, UI: FILENT FOR MIDDLE FASTERN PRODUCINE

COUNTIES.

sycA

Tatia

---

## Page 7

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE Y

5: 53

r:188

--—-

C'It DiR

87621

-PAGE SEVER-

•I IS NOGOTIATING, INWEVER, UN THE BASIS OF RISOLUTIONS ADOPTEI

AT 15 OPSC NASTING LAST TSAR.

TA MISTRES OUT INASAMN, OPARATING IN IRAS, ACTING AS IRAT

LAY 'OR THE MAJON COMPANISH HAS OTTEXID A FORMULA WHICH MOULD I8-

C JASE PAYHENTS ID THE MIDDLI LASTIAN COYIANENTS BY ABOUT THRE

ING OUT FOR A MUCH LARGER RISE, THINE IS LO DISAGASIISNI ON A

TUMILIA UN MUATIS RELATIM IU TUT MSTADO DE CAMULATITO THE GUYIRA-

MENTS' SHAPES. ON DEL à NESTIRE OF OUTC ANDERSENTATIVES IN

BEIRUT ANHOVACED REJICTION OF THE CONSORTIUM'S PROPOBAIS.

ROUBANI'S POBITION IS BONSUHAT TEARNED BY AN APPANENT TENDENCY

DE THREB LBADING OPTC MEHRERS--KUMATT, BAUDI ARARTA, AND TRADE-TO

TARS A HORE FLEXIBLI ATTITUDR THAX BOULANI SITAS TO PAVOR.

THE OPSC SEMPERO (VENZUELi, LIRTA, BAUDI ARABIA, DATAR,

INAR, TRAN, KUMAIT INDANISIA) ITIL DISCUSS POBBIBLE COURSES OF ACTION

AT THEIR METT GMNO:: (NIFERITE ACHEDULED TO BE HELD IN SAUDI

ARAFIA ?A DER A M-:ANI

11'. UPOCCO. TIM MOROCCAY GOVERMAENI APPARENILY I8 RECONSIDERINI

DECLO ION, AMMMY: " IN ANIMES, A BAUER DIPONATIC DELATIONS MIT!!

it rooobie: 1000 2007980.

PEEP: DUIT. •ER LANE iNAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

Lage N...

---

## Page 8

HERNAT:

[»?

Patt

T INDEX

LI FILE IN ES FILE NO.

INFO

0m0R. 87621

-PACI ITTIT-

CARA IN RETALILATION FOR CURA'S MXLITANT ARS

ON 3 PAC, TAX ACTINO NURDOCAN FOUN

СТВАТ ПОФИЛИ" МЕНДАТТОЙ ВЕДРАТСЯК ВО

TO RETROTE SORRAL, BRATIONS. AN OFFICIAL

I'I RADAT, TO BELIEVES THAT THE RECEPTION OF ME

OH SCIAL ON ON MATION, CAT

ATE MINO TUBER YALENICE TO MESS THE CURRA DE

BIBAN II

НУ ВІНОКАТЬ

IN 10 K

3 WERE BROKEN VITA

CURA, TRE CURAT ANARINA NAS COMFINIO TO ARENA FORTIONA NO TO

FLY TRE CURAT TAG AT HIS CHANCERY IN RABAT, CARATING DONE SARANRASS-

UKHT TON THE MOROCCAN FONZIGE MININTRY. (COMP)

BIND OF HASBAGI

.1009

070848604»

ade nutrit

REPRODICTION E- D:MER IMAN IHE ISSUNE CHACE IS PROHIBITEO.

---

