# 104-10169-10335

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10169-10335 -

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NUUIRIG AID RECOND SHEET

PRIOR TO FILING

TO: ACTION BRANCH

1.

Fill in Sect.

back. Dorach back

flap

forr.ard to

2.

Destroy

front cover sheet, unless

records significant. action

taken or

contents requiring, proservation.

FROM:

If file no.

and title shown are

not

proper: insert proper file no. bolcu

sad forsard docuwent to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

HUAN

RSTURN TO CIA

Background Use Only.

Do Not Reproduce

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I-ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

ROOM

NO.

DATE

OFFICER

IMITIALS

PIGS

ee seat sR/2

2.

NE/4

C/WE-,

243 pot

28/3

101/

les detached by wale les

WA

who ought to be

•

9.

10.

12.

18.

14.

18.

17.

RID/FI

THACU

REQUEST

DATE MICHOFILMED

29 11

WAK

ARATHAOT

INDEN

6100

USI PREVIOUS

RDITION&

TILT TYCE

PILE NUMBEN I PRIMARY CODET

TOUR :391 - 2.9405/55

DOCUMENT NUMBEN

[OFHA 04901

30AuL 196,

(40)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

chies, is

noto

Chies, SR

FROM

SURACT

catar of station frolial nKL

"REDCAF/Anatally Mikhaylorich 12IV (2010; 4! 5:)

ACTION MOrATO

BEFIMAEISI

201-?

...

NO ADIAL ROL.110

On abolit 20 Lecenber 1900, Hillias 1. Costille attended alConsular Corpo

function as part of his norel coror liçios.

Also attending way dia son jorios

Vice Consul, inatolly NIkhaylorich NIV.

OZattantion toough diMOLLY/42 ano. rogurted in

KLINOVo a name first case to the italion'

0032, 2% iugust 1100, that sikH

19-1

U2 Intervieved 15142 forsunallo as tlio joviat sahassy prior to issuing bis a sorior

This I8 tha firat blas dinous that there havo bean tho officaro at lio jnios

Consulato, a consul ind a lico dungul. Tori hava buen consular clordis, lut nucore

runctioning as all actual Vico donoul.

lostille recalls that om of irigurly to.

COLUE's chlof complaints mian h, was consul way that ho was overtoniod as the

only officor in the Consulate, In tho recasions iuring tile full or 1700 NlY

phoned lostillo on official congular tusinass.

Ho vas vory frienuly on tila fucon

and statod that ho hoped lostille and ha could neat soon.

At the 20 December funesion, lostillo and KLÄnDY verd part of about 40

Consular Corps mambora tourini

: Grio did factory in Halsinil, a tinndüh subaidiary

of a swadish company making barcon ilihts, taluvision sots, etc. artar a shore

while Costille was Introduced to. NIlWY, and Istor aulto by coincidence thu tho

sat next to ond anothur at lunch, jolionaig tha lund lostillo offerod to drino

KIN'OY baci to tha jovlot sabussy, On the trip to the sabassy Costille surgostod

the two stoo for ooffoo and cognio at a nearly rustaurant, to wulch KLINOr rosill

Blographlo Informations KLIIDY appears. to bo. in the noighbortood of 35

tia 1s approximataly s'y" till, stocky

but not stout, has a hruyi live and brown air.

(Ho dous not presantly huvo a

moustacho, althoush the REbull' Nutahuck picture shows him with one.) He has a

ploasant face with a natural anilo, lo is triunils, polito, soft spokon, but

gives the improasion of loing a ito sure of himself.

His personaliar suama to to

just the opposito from his superior in the Consulato, jongul Ivan Toilnovich

SERGeYEV was not i'nasant at this particular function, but lostillo

has not him once or twlos at provluus Consular Corps functions.

polite but has novar shown any alans of friencilinoss.

He is somoniut pompous

and frankly & cold ilah.

NINOV atatod that he (KLINOV) was from MOscON.:

(609

tillo is not sórt. in 1í ho say born thore.) He was educated at to University

of Moscot and lo sinted that ido major subject was the United Stries. KLINOV

is marriodaand ho made a point of talling lostillo that he is quite happily

married and has one daughter about eight years old.

The sugliter is in stivai

in the Soviet UnIon! howavor, alla occusionally visits Holsinki. At the Consular

Corps luncheon KLl OV appearad to anjoy himsolf, was friendly to everyono, und

mado a point of ahakin everyonu's hand upon his departuro.

thon Contillo and KLINOV wore alone in the bar, KLINOV fairly nulokly

purned the convuraation to a cunpuriaon of joviot und lestern systans. Homurar,

at all timos lia raminod palito and listoned alosely to vostilla's sido oi the

disoussion.

KIliot startod the cunveraution by stating that he thought "nlahe

11fo" (i.o., niple oluba, duneing, oto.) vas a naste of tlio and that he parsonalin

proferred reading and the arta, llo at itod that in the Unitad States thery suamed

to bo too muon emplaste on "nalt h1í'o", miloi has a partioularly bud Intluonvo

on young poople,

He sumparad to carront stato of the united jtatos to the iomen

Papira wilch ha atited fall as a rouult of its own docadoros and lack ol 1481000.

costallo asked dilm maro do roualvori hia Improusion of the Unicod ilatma and 1f

during hia studlan lo laù snoo anodes to beetern literaturo.

Ha andwared only

Chat his mejor 1n ine Undorally vas tilo Unitod jatos and skipped the medalon

on his nooons 61 Western dlbaralia.

halit tolked on the nausi propaganda sina,

auon ae why the undred stucan lualatad upon amporane dotatorallpo, alo.

sorusad to naknuntailge blind bla omi country was a diotutorahip or that the Jovias

-1101

FORM

10 N 83

t88)

TANI ANY

101121851111111.

HIMA

4141 41

WHICH AND BESIDE

pox

CONTINUID

birde in la i calit

tavari riddo die mentonio de

TS TOT

+01729445575

513R

---

## Page 3

14-00000

7=458101677:00

COHTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

BAEATEN PrOBOLIDONO:

12255474-33

Union had any control orer tne istellito countties. iLLid! criticized inoricus

ja28, zories, juvenile delingieney, ere.. niciough juits jalinico in nis ou

balidis, ilisit lastenod altontivoly to miat lostlila laa to say and tosx cri: iciszo

of his oun country in striva.

is the two were leiving tile restaurint, iLlioV

ruld Costillo trat in anamor to instille's earlier question on the availaullity

of restom Ilterscura in ins joviet linion ho could only suite that la did not

have as zuch accors during his studies as lie sould have iliad.

5.

Costillo rocaived the impression that Helsink was illnow's firat post

aral probably the first timo he "ind bean out of tie joviet union. Ho repeatod

a numbar. of times during the conversation his fundness for coscou and that ho

reund Halainid to ba lacking in cultural life.

He appaared to ba approciative

for ine ride back to the sabassy and upon departing told costillo how ruci ho

enjoyod the ulternoon and hoped that they right hoot again.

about tho dayy

bafora ntistmas NIHOV sent via a jovlet imbassy chauffeur tho bottles of joviet

vodka to Carillo' a apartuent with a jou Yoar's card attached.

6. Nothing further was hoard fron XI.ISOV until 3 March, At this tina ho

phoned Costille to ask 11 Costillo could obtain two tlckets to the preniero of

"Bon Hurt for him and his wiso.

This was Impossiblo and lostillo tald hin ho

nould try sor tickots at a latar dato.

7.

MT. AsOn BUN-YOHANN, Vico Consul at the Israell Legation, tald Costillo

what shortly attor the first of the year KLINDV pioned him and askod him to have

a drink and dinner some evening aftor work: BOY-YOHANAi had also mot KiINUV at

Cho same Consular Corps function.

During the evening nutrioy tald BIN-YOHANAN

that a though not dowish himself, ho had a number of Jewish frionds in roscow.

TIMOV statod that he vroatly ad:rod Jowish poople for their intellect.

Tho

tho had dinner at a local night club, the Klaus lurkl, which citors to young

Finnish girla who come alone on the prowl.

BEN-JOHANIN suggestod that he and

KLINDY apot two likely prospects and ask them to dance.

KLINDY becamo quito

ambarrassed and said that ho had rather not as his hito wis quito jaalous.

BOY-YOHANAN remarked that his wife would never rind out if KIMOY just danced

nach the girl.

However, KIliOV still refusod stating that his wife somenow

oould just "fool whon ho lad even danced with another giri."

It will bo notod that KLIMOV 1s listed on the latest Diplomatic Corps

11at as an attacho.

However, he was introduced at the Consular Corps as the

"now soviet Vice Consul".

Diatribudions

0 & 2 - WI

- SR

2/8R

YORM

10.07 530

(01

EVIQUORDITION,

PORMe

^ AND 91:10

SLOTET

LI CONTINUING

---

