|104-10186-10233)
ra x

“I 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

eae

‘Tole material convene mrsemation asweting the Muticoal Defense of the Carne Reis witht
UA UBC Bera 115 aod TH the Urenscetene cf revelation of which Ua ans eemuve

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

che eneaaing of the Eapicoare Laws, Tre
suinetsed perwoa te pronitived by lee,

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSER

country Cuba ° wPort NO, CSCI-316/01230-64
SuMecT Felix PITA Astudillo CATE DISTR. 5 October Cane \
NQ paces 2 oS
&. PP
beceheechd Swe ro
64 ESE :
pate of 19) Kg
race a Washington, D.C & ©
puce & Washington, D. C. )
Date ACQ, October 1964 Reo Reront No”

THiS 1S UNEVALUATED TNAOUMATION SOURCE GRADINGS ARE SETRIMVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 13 TENTATIVE.

source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.
,

Headquarters Comments

The following report is ono of a sertes containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It as requ
individua

ted that the addressees take no action on any of the
mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

Source identified a photograph o: Felix PITA Astudillo as

being a member of the Direccion aur de Intelligencia (General

Directorate of Intelligence - DGI). 23,4,

Headquarte Comments:

1.

2.

In a report dated 11 August 196: Felix PITA was identified as
the Cultural Attache at the Cuban Embassy in Rio de Janeiro.

Ia a report dated 14 January 1963, it was reported by a group
of Cuban emigre's trained in the techniques of information
collection and who have provided useful reports for two years,
that Felax PITA Astudillo 1s an assistant (sic) at the Cuban

Embassy in Rio de Janeiro.

A defected Cuban intelligence officer, in a report dated
\ February 1963, stated that Felix PITA Astudillo 1s the
son of Felix PITA Rodriguez. the Communist poet. During
the Batista regime PITA lived im Venezuela. In 1961 he
attended the MINREX Diplomatic School, he also attended the
Escuela de Cuadros Politicos (the Communist Party political

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DiSSEN

Stare

Tow

eye Tae Ta TRAX Teen {rere

mu /SAZEOR 1. =

LX - 1695
i (0 PROJECT ( AMNUG
¥.

[en wi/sa

u/SAVR—_ 1 — am +ESCI-316. 01230-

wuvsa/er p90 Tenax : q “

by WAVE 2 R I if Sa we dike
TO). WEL (2). CLA, os |



8

“4.

SECHET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM  -CSC1=316/'01230-64

indoctrination school), Source described PITA as having beea born
about 1941 in Cuba, being about five feet cight inches tall, 130

pounds, having Light eyes, medium-dark hair, a slim build, and white,
Source did not know his Communist Party status.

A fairly reliable source, from a report dated 16 February 1963,
stated that Felix PITA is the son of Felix PITA Rodriguez, author,
newspaperman, and possibly a Communist. PITA was born about 1941,
“PITA passed through Mexico City enroute to Latin Amcrica as a
Cultural Attache about April or May 1962. Source also stated that
PITA was rather. cowardly and timid, that he was afraid to leave the
embassy premises atid would not, go out on the streets alone. PITA
appeared to be an opportunist rather than a Communist or pro-Castro
and possibly obtained his job through his father's influence.

In a report dated 12 March 1963, Felix PITA was identified as a
Cuban intelligence officer under cover as the Cultural Attache in
the Cuban Embassy in Rio de Janeiro.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

