# 104-10112-10410

## Page 1

104-10112-10410

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE - H

TRAVEL ORDER

Rasad & 350

MAJOR

uCiEN CONEiN

"11 Ostobar 1756

OFFICE PHONE

TITLE

3325

OFFICIAL STATION

5025

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

86-23-55

ALLOTMENT ACCOUNT SYMBOI

+ 73725-55-039

GRADE AND SALARY

MAJOR, DEA

Sadesa, Vietner

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in accordance with

Agency Regulations.

ITINERARY

Is cancel tarad 11, Azeed

F'CS effeesire 12 tor1l 1956

sai arond ardalnal andas to stom

13-2

Fietnas)

PURPOSE

13-2

SPECAPTRA SONG DA FEAR TO LATONEY

asted 5 Euranber 1543 that a perso le to be

Benatular it orletnal ordar satasses.

CatS

AUTHOEIZED PER DIEM

COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE)

_ OTHER OPERATIONAL AREAS

THEATER CLEARANCE (IF OBTAINABLE)

ADVANCE OF FUNDS IS AUTHORIZED

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

TRAVEL 1O BEGIN ON OR ABOUT

TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY

CERTIFICATION MY PROCESSING BRANCH)

MODE OF TRAVEL (SPECIFY)

Certified a True Copy. Signed

copy on file in Central Process-

ALLOWANDE FOR PRIVATELY OWNED AUTOMOBILE iS FOLLOWS IF APPLICABLE

CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER.

ing Branch. Reviewed. No change

necessary

1450)

Amended as indicated.

(E3)

CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING ADRE ADVANTAGEOUS TO THE GOVERNMENT

Misse

SIGNATURE

HE CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION INDICATED IS EFFECTED IN THE INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

ipa

• CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF STATIONi MU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRANSPORT YOUR IMMEDIATE FAMILY, YOUR HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECI

I WEIGHT LIMUTS, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVISTONS AS SET FORTH IN AGENCY REGULATIONS.

"FELAVEL TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD, MIC-DING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE,

AUTHORIZED.

FETURN FROM POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INJILDING

RE AUTHORIZED.

ESPENSE

GEHLETTE

wat

ORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE,

ZE PENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYE

"EMPORARY DUTY

NONE INE TITLE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL (TYPE

03

SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

condon

1A ETERARLY EFI

- 5790

REPLACES FORM 33-27

OCT SI WHICH MAY BE.

USED

4/pj

CECRET

---

