# 104-10073-10144

## Page 1

T104-10073-10144

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE:

Cuba

REPORT NO

112$93,248,095

Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo

• DATE DISTR

INO. PAGES

C-303 BR

To 23 Dec 62

Reguld Blance hase

Havana/to 23 Dec 62

A 14363 32 151 Que, Sniassi

436:

.7ha.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Cuban national, A 13 3h2 177, 25 years old, former Captain in Batista's

Source was arrested three times for ants-Castro activities.

He was chief of anti-Castro group composed of former military people.

He was arrested last time on 7 Aug 59 and served time in Isle de Pinoc

1.

2.

This report was developed by an Air force representative assigned to

office of collection.]

Before I was arrested I, knew many people who were working with me in

order to overthrow the Castro Cormunist goverment. ' Many of us tool:

Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo as a sincere Individual who wanted to overthrow

the Castro government..

Gutierrez knew me vell and I told him where we

were going

to meet the time we were captured by

G-2.

He was the only

percon that knew ve were going to be there besides the people that were

captured with me.

Inter on I ras told by many of nd triends that

Gutierrez had informed on us.

To my knowledge he also informed on 142

other people that were captured and are now in prison.

Since I have arrived here I an told that he 1s. very active in ant1-

I sincerely believe that this man is a Castro agent in

disguise.

He protends

to be anti-Castro but I strongly believe that he

actually is vorking for the Castro Goverrment.

•I am so sure of this

That I an willing to testily against Gutierres in any court of law.

This nan should be thoroughly investigated because I have no doubt in

iny mind that he 1e an undercover Castro agent.

-ende

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-I,

STATE

INFORMATION

NTROLLED

BAl! Tha

REPORT

• Heale

INF

NO DISSEM ABROAD

R MIA

TION REPORT

09809

NTO CA

Background Use Only

Do Not Moproduce

Ime

---

