# 104-10124-10136

## Page 1

-00000

104-10124-10136

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

_DALE

NUMER: 1729450

Sund'aCI:.

This nemorandun is to summarize security action

AFPRAISER: =- 1055en

in the case of the Subject person in connection with application for employment as:

ISD interest

_Grade:

LACKURQUAD:

fathur was born in

subject so 17 years of age and was torn in the tnited States.

Subject's

_. Subject's mother was born in the ?"

Only the following relatives are known to reside outside the United States or to be

citizens of another country: Hone

Subject attended

Bagh sahonl

until 1932

Since then Subject's activities have been as follows:

32-42 privately employed:

12-46 0.

• S. Army:

40-present, Los negles County Sheriff's Office

INVESTIGATIVE ACTION:

Investigative action by CIA consists of coverage as scheduled,

including contact with

O listed references and 3

developed references; including neighbors.(I

Investigation curtailed in view of 1953 BI.)

NAC negative concerning Subject and spouse. Tile reviewed..

ACSI records reflect a favorable BI of Subject in 1953. (BOrer clearance granted

31 lay 1953: 01 granted SEORET contract

•euplciment of Sulject

on 22 horil 1955. ISS granted SECRET contect ricarsine 15 rosenber 1154. Sulject

placed in "Approved-faution" category for contuct by CO or E lovember 1954.

character, personality, associates or relatives: None

• ject

UNKNOWN

S

se

dat

60₴

YES

NO

guested by TSPYISS.

memorand um, S0. 922045

SECRET

Warner, 03.

---

