# 104-10120-10375

## Page 1

104-10120-10375)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

..assi:'

7 February 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Support Branch

FROI

: Chief, Cover Support Desk

SUBJECT

COVER - CONORLCIAD

(Proposal to Cover Field Assessment of

Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates)

#90682

1. Reference is made to the attached SR memorandum dated

3 February 1961.

2.. The original of this memorandun was concurred in by

Robert L. BANNERIAN, Acting Director of Security, on 6 February

1961 and forwarded to Central Cover Group. A memorandum had

been previously concurred in by Mr. Thomas CARPOLL, CI/OA.

As indicated therein, a new procedure is proposed for the initial

contact and A & E screening of potential REDSKIN agents.

This

would considerably reduce the number of persons who are briefed

on Agency interest in thé REISKIN Program inasmuch as those persons

who are rejected as a result of the A & E testing would never be

briefed on the CIA interest in same, as is currently the case.

3. This matter was immediately brought to Mr. BANNERIAN's

attention in view of his previous interest in reducing the number

of contacts with CIA alias

Credentials. He concurred in the pro-

posal as is indicated above, with the verbal recommendation

to the SR representative that, after the plan has been found

leasible, possibly two or three junior personnel be assigned to

conduct this testing on a full-time basis

condst this testines to cather o are opene

associated with CIA.

These junior psychologists would then be

represented with the cover concern, PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSESSMENTS Z 4

ASSOCIATES, and would not become associated with MA, thereby

obviating the possibility of embarrassment to the Agency and/or

possible compromise of the cover asset involved.

This memorandun is being written in order that it ray

be brought to the attention of appropriate components within

IOS, including the Investigations Branch, inasmuch as the procedure

17i1] have an effect on IB, i.e., the number of REISKIN cases

will be reduced since clearances will not be secured on poten-

tial candidates until they have been favorably screened by the

A & E Staff (see paragraphs 3(c) and 4(c))o

---

## Page 2

4-00000

5. No further action is contemplated in this matter by the

writer.

Attachment.

SR Meno (3 Feb. 1961)

KUFNKE/ewd (2~7-61)

CLOSED

Eways tanken

Ervan E!

Kuhnke, Jr.

2

: 1111

---

