|104-107186-10061] 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992) .
; : \

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘ i .
i ‘Tots eatertal comtatas information atqcucg the Katicoal Defense of tbe Calted States within Ge meee ef the Raplonage Laws, Tide

“ AL USC Gece TH and 104 tbe Urnnmauetva oF rereaticn of WHICD in Gay bene® vo Ka UnaLinwramd petwn prohibited By MW.
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEW
country Cuba REPORT NO, —- CLI -316/00728-65
sumect fnu JOA (aka “Jordan”) DATE OISTR. 16 February 1965

NO. PAGES: 1
REFERENCES. CS-311/00115-64

885, 1964 Seis dose: _RETURNTO CU
mak Washington, D. C. mare y

Cat ko December 1964 FIELD REPORT NO.

Ws 1 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEVINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTEMT 15 TENTATIVE, —

source. A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban eee ee if
Service ufitil April 1964,

Headquarters Comments y

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any.of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Fnu JOA, aka: "Jordan," is the Peruvian desk officer 4n
the Seccion Sur (South American Section) of the Departamento de
Liberacion Nacional (National Liberation Department - LN) of
the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of
Intelligence - DGI).

2, JOA, a Caucasian, was born between 1940 and 1945. He is
five feet six inches tall, weighs 140 pounds, and has a thin
build. JOA earns about $240.00 per month.1
Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no additional fdentifiable
information on JOA.

§
4
: SECRET RES]
NO FOREIGN DISSEM =
1 =
‘State Tow, Taye Tae Tse TXBN T Fst
REP CINCLANT CINCSO =” TENS =
Mote. Field distribution Indicated by ~#”.)

T_UFGA 19083
L116 Dec. 1964} i
——--NO PROJECT ( AMML

S 007284 *

fave} I {
roves WH/SA 8 Q), £1 (1), Cr 4, RID 1 seo g

19-5-1

FORM NOY AR antene perce Oa
