# 104-10012-10027

## Page 1

1104-10012-10027

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

10/291

SECRET

FRP :

STAFF

ACTION: EUR - 8. (006)

CS/RF, DDA, C/PCS,

CA•4, CCS-2.

C1-4,

coмM0-7,

MO-1: CHORE, EPS/EG-ZE IP/OMSY ESN/TO, ODPD-D.

CHO-2, EPS/EG-2i

DED- 4, OGC-2, OLC,

PCS/LSN,

SA/DO/O, SE-8, SEGUR-3, SIA, SIAIFL,

(63/W)

78 0391413

TOR:

PAGE 001

0718402

MAR 78

IN 0391413

LOND

92099

SECRET 071737Z MAR 78 STAFF

CITE LONDON 92099

TO:

DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL MASPLASH CKELEG SGCHART RTWINNER

1.

"BBC-ONE BROADCAST FIFTY-MINUTE PROGRAM ON KENNEDY

ASSASSINATION

AT 2010 ON 6 MARCH.

"THE GUARDIAN" FOR O MÄREH

DESCRIBED PROGRAM AS FOLLOV:S:

"THE KENNEDY COVER-UP: A REPORT ON SENSATIONAL NEW

EVIDENCE OF HIS DEATH.

MICHAEL COCKERELL'S REPORT CLAIMS TO

COLLATE FOR THE FIRST

TIME ALL THE NEW EVIDENCE THAT HAS EMERGED

OF LATE, MUCH OF

IT IN THE WAKE OF WATERGATE,

AND WHICH HAS

GIVEN NEW WEIGHT TO THE CONSPIRACY THEORY REJECTED BY THE

WARREN COMMISSION.

EIGHTY PER CENT OF AMERICANS, APPARENTLY

DO NOT ACCEPT THE COMMISSION'S FINDINGS; THE CHAIRMAN OF THE

COMMITTEE SET UP AFTER WATERGATE TO INVESTIGATE THE CIA AND

FBI'S WORK AT THE TIME OF THE ASSASSINATION RECHONS:

THE BIGGEST COVER-UPS IN THE HISTORY OF OUR COUNTRY HAS OCCURRED. '

WAS THE KILLING OF THE PRESIDENT A SPIN-UFF FROM A CIA MAFIA PLOT

TO MURDER CASTRO, ASKS THE FILM, PRODUCING EVIDENCE OF & LIN.

BETWEEN LEE HARVEY OSWALD, THE CIA, AND THE KGU,"

2.

FROGRAM INCLUDED INTERVIEWS WITH JAMES F. MOSTY,

IDENTIFILD AS FBI AGENT DALLAS: WILLIAM GAUDET, DESCHIBED

AS

FMRMER CIA OFERATIVE; AND ANTONIO VECIANA, CHARACTERIZED AS A

CUBAN CIA OPERATIVE.

THEME IS THAT AGENCY DEEPLY INVOLVED IN ASSASSINATION AND COVER-D AS -1624

ALTHOUGH PRESENTATIDA SOMEWHA! DISJOINTED, GENERAL

Rime saint

PRUGRAN PRESENTED IN PRESTIGIDUS "PANORAMAM: SLOT WHICH

HAS WIDE AND LARGE AUDIENCE,

WILL HAVE CONSIDERAHLE IMPACT ON

VIEWERS.

FEIS ALSO POUCHING

FBIS CABLING TRANSCRIP PROGRAM

WILL ADVISE FILING NUMBER.

ADDÄESSED

EUR/BC.

s. FILl: 208-120-150.

EZ IMPDET,

filed!''

OF

MESSAGE

---

