# 104-10227-10083

## Page 1

104-10227-10083

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

12 April 1961

SUBJECT: Funding of AMIRON and AMBUD Organizaflone

1.

With the launching of the AMBUD organization we are faced

with the Immediate need of re-appraising our funding relationship

with AMIRON. Il one cuneiders that AMBUD is, for all practical

ригровсь, an outgrowth of AMIRON, it would appear completely

logical to expect AMBUD to take over cerlain functions which were

previously the responsibility of AMIRONas vur chosen instrument.

For all practical purposco, AMIRON has served its purpose and,

now that we have AMBUD, no longer noeds to exiat.

2. When AMBUD-l returned from his visit to the camps, Petor

N. LICARI informed him of the urgent need for deciding what functione

of the AMIRON organizalion he wanted to take over. To date, we have

had no word from AMBUD-I on this subject.

3. Since we will probably not be successful in getting the desired

information from AMBUD-1 within the next few days it is believed

that the following would be the most practical approach to the problem

of interim financing of the AMBUD organization and the gradual cur-

tallment of funda for AMIRON.

A. That LICARI inform AMBUD-1 that the sum of $15, 000

is being deposited to a separate account to be managed by

AMTIKI-I separate from regular AMIRON funds. This fund

can be utilized by AMBUD-1 for:

(1) Salaries of a small public relations staff;

(2) Salaries of a small planning stall;

(3) Travel and related expenses of AMBUD members;

(4) Any miscellaneous expenses deemed necessary by

AMBUD-1.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-2-

B. The military section of the AMIRON organizalion and

the financial and auditing staff of AMTIKI-l will be transferred

10 AMUUD organization al the carlicat practical moment.

C. Funde will be available to cover the expenses of a amall

"carctaker" forcè to represent AMIRON, preserve recordo,

answer inquirieo.

D. All AMIRON personnel will be kept on the payroll through

May 3181. They will bo so advised on or about l May.

E. The $58, 000 now budgeted for the operational expensos of

tho "Commitices" ls being deleted immediately since there le no

longer any noed for AMIRON propaganda as such.

F. LICARI should continuo to urge AMBUD-l to give early

thought to his budgelary and porsonnel needs but should not

confront him with a deadline at we can rock along for the next

two wocke under present arrangemen

'GERARD DROLLER

APPROVED:

1298.1 line

(J. D. ESTERLINE

C/ WH/4

---

