tI 104. 10214-10003, (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ace OF 19

Pinter. ge obanewaee S 2

alae S os or. BA May 1961

‘MEMCRANDUM FOR: Cable Secretariat

SUBJECT: Distribution - ZRRIFLE Traffie :

“4, Two copies of all traffic bearing the ZRPIFLE indicator
are to be crlivered ina sealed envelope directly to the Chief, FI/Divie
sion D, 1502 L Building. No other distribution is to be mace without 7
‘the spectiic approval in each instance of the Chief, FI/D. 7

2. Tho above has been personally approved by the Depaty
sector (tlans), : A

WILLIAM K, HARVEY
Chief, F1/Livisicn D

Orig & 1 - Addresa:
1-FI/D Registry
1+ Subject File
i» Chrono a



rng
FOR signal

19 February 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: ; William.K. Harvey
SUBJECT: _ Authorization of ZRRIFLE Agent Activities

by authorized to ret2in the services of Principal Agent QJWIN
and such other principal agents and sub-agents as may be
required. This authorization will continue to be in force
through 31 December 1962, subject to renewal at that tires.

i

- |

1. For the purpose of ZRRIFLE activities, you are here— 4
4

i)

'

2. As established by contract with him, QUWIN's salary ta “|
will be $7,200 per annum. Accounting for the expenses of i ieee
QJUWIN and other agents involved in this activity will be in ope each
< the form of receipts for funds received by then, and these pon i
receipts will be retained in the ZRRIFLE covert operational j i
file. Because pf the sensitive nature of this activity, : i :
accounting for funds will be by general category and by your
certification, In addition to the salary established for
* QJWIN, you are authorized the expenditure of $7,500 through
31 Decenber 1962. I£ further funds are necessary, they will
be provided. sates . .

-°: 3, ‘This memorandum is to be considered in lieu of pro-
ject and constitutes authorization for all travel, per dien,
perational and other expenses.

gl at as requested that this activity be handled
strictly on an BYES ONLY basis.

see Richard Helms -_
i _’ Deputy Director (Plans)
u/ ;

i,

sfoathesessacnzmo ei nteiso

a ee Seo apes atl gu


Five rece
Sensitive 32 ject er
Pércotar 02 Caceres

ys

SS2ssion o'r:



(Whea galled tn)
=,

CONFIDENTIAL FUNDS 1° "RQ VOUCHER . oo

OATE Bog VOUCHER Uy Je 12

Juna 26 1961

- aan?
orscwirtions fo Per. Ceocen
NCC ACCOUNTS fda? t ACCT. a0 .

CRPLANATICN OF ENTRY .
To record accounting and. refund of unexpended advance for ‘ont highly
sitive JHATE payment. Funds wore provided @s Lollows; 92,000.00 charged ts kdwards advance >
ceeetint. 1-Oatch er 1960, Vorichor # 882: $25,000.00 charged to expense 3 Octoter 1960 Voucher # 887—

Original of statement for accounting attacticd to Voucher 867. Copy of Accounting Statenient and
sTecoipt for fundsYy is attached herewith.

ATE ACVIEWCO oY. ene Fon Pa SENT i CREDIT.
‘ 26 June 6 Leseese co Ey ‘ona 61 aa) l aay a Mm Q
an : SEE! ot .

Wboeany



ectera no540
{| LORS TAS UIEN | FYFE OI icadau EMTOUN. RAT

SEERET
Wate Piited Ind
DATE

a . 22 Se of
por a 422, ficntia LOG |

OF
‘UNDS 6p ACCOUNTS

"EQ enanace (CClencoreo Y,_Sp_DoLIee: ’ 2600.

LMOIWIDUAL oR PRONUCE TOETITFIGATION JMARG AUTHORITY REF, |
Ty TU PAYROLL NO. ~ JNAVEL ORDLR NO. i
“Ta SATION BICUADLO BY STATION VOUCHLA NO. . DATED ALLOTMENT NO, i
encarta fa . -
J waits ort oF cxrense Gx) aovance Out (] Pavaout & oTiitR . [LL] TRANSFER OF FUNDS {
CT rccetrtn unone ove [aq neiviouay, an on . H
' sos (J rroveat : . e
: ° i
. : , ' i
Operatdo: vi Es: y ; : "t ;
Opcrattonel advances ¢ Sue ffiold Edvards, Soority Division, ce Liu 7. ) 92 cole sen he |
—_ 7
. ———1E ‘
: ENDO Te OTT i ———————
er EL ERY ORE
SPACE BELOW TOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY. _
SOS ARE AVAILABLE APPROVED, 46

i POARCE ALLOY RG ey, TORATURC OF ART SVIREAUTICH

| . : - ep ty “ rs a ‘960

TORR UN RTIFIED FOR PAYMENT OR CALDIT

ye Lok AA ori

aiey
OeHenay,
Loocen
acct. No.

i r

v0.07
ALLOY. On coor
CT NO.

REVILWLO BY

rotten an

SRE a acta skier tt te



ei eome

* SECRET

MEMOR RANDUM FOR: .Chiei, w B/E

FROM: Director of Security
SuByECT: ’ ,WH/SECURITY PROJECT :

1, This memorexce
expended on @ sex:

@ inal accounting of monies ay
ito the DD/P, Chiei/WE i

a
veges net inten

2% Sept, 1960 Received irom WE Di Be onieos - yu -S87 8 aoe ae

Oct, 1960 Received irom WH Di

DSBUPS.
25 Sept, 1960 To Cutout $ 6,900.c0
through :
6 Feb, 1961 :
U Feb. 1961. To Principal Agzat $10,000. 00
1

3L Jan, 1961 Commo Expacses $
through o :
14 Feb, 1961

7043.08
28,Sept. 1960 " Miscellaneous Expenses  $ ae i aint

through ; $18, 936,95 to
12Feb, 961 a
Cask on Hand “ . $ 8,063.05 :

2.. The sum - eight thousand sisty three dollars aud five
cents ($8,083, 05).is b:
alt expendi res are BupDs



vevnet
= CBRN HLT ay

7 On PROUEGT

21000-0021

AEUWSURTEMLNT OR CAUMCHT 18 CLAIMED POH MATCATALE, SCAVIC!
OILCT OCKICMATED,

GESCRIPTION OF EXPENDITURE ATTACH RECEIPTS AND OTHCH SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

Fer necessary purpeses of the Project. .

I certify that the above amount has been expended for necesnory and confidential *
purposes of the Project, that further accountings and receipts will nat be
available or oF requiped to write off this expenditures Aa

a a
CORE VEY THAT THIS VOUCHER ANE ANY ATTACLMENTS ARE CCRACCT, THE EXPENDITURES WERE INCURMED ON OFFICIAL OUSINESS OF A CONFIDENTIAL, EXTRAORDINARY, on
S MURCUNCY NATEACH RAYMCUT ON CREDIT HAS AOT DECN ACCCIVED, AND | BUALL NOT OL AEIMDUTECD PROM ANY OTHER SOURCES

oats stanat yOK! ry a .
. aye ha . . : .
Dots 19601 “ly a “Esarioe

7 _____APrmoveD
1, WeTOATION REFERENCE NO.[ CHANGE ALLOTMENT NO. [srerarue UG prs inney ina OrriceR

20° ae ZOD PAYWENT RECEIVED
OR Mor Payment dA CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF $ AG 000,%

pm * ie ie PU scare ws

VE e
eet wet (ene :
oe SPACE DELON Fon Li USIVE USE Gi (a (e . i

3 Tanto ov
—.

REVIEWED oY VOUCHER NOs Tel8

ens gt

OGLCALPTION® ALL OTHER ACCOUNTS 19-39 71000

AMOUNT

Peers

ale
|

