{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

oe
104-10172-10362
auc Rue

: SECRET
j
| Adder to tbe Study 29 the
= Buzectapte Revolustonapte Iberica do Mboractay

Qderian Revolutionary Direstrate of Lidoratton) DL

SECRET. A oor Igbo.


Aocord$:y to dean fINT\L, the moving a.irit beaind the Syanteh enarciiete
in Trance, tha FAI (Yedoratin of Iberian inarchista) 2 not eullaborating with
either the Commnista or the Mit,

A 23 July 1962 roport atated that t:e Jentsb-Be: stan Fr cadahtp Society
0, Cuban Kubasay

in Feigivs receives financial aid froa Humberto fodr: gues Tew!

in Wadride
Tho President of the Society io Zelix FERNANDEZ Santiatodan, end its

Secretary ‘s Eduardo TELL Hobst.

It to Anterosting to note here that Ab‘erransn VULZY More requested, ia a
letter to “Cho* GUEVARA, financial ald fron the Cuben Governnen’ and a velease
of exile DRIL funds cror which General BAYS had control. As a followup to this
letter Blay GUZIPRIGL Honayo went to Liege, Delgium, to make a firat-hand ostinate
of DRIL leadership, capabilities, ent potential, prolininery to tho unfroesing of
any funds in the Hatiunal Dank of Quba. Later ao a reault of sono interrogations
of DFCL mentors arpretanuded in Belgium, it was learsed thet Fidal CASTiS has
agreed to release larga emounta of Spanish funds blocked in Cubs to support the
PRIL with the provision that CASTE can be essured thst the nature of this urganie
sation is jurely revolutiouary a:d 1s dedicated to the overthrow of the Franco

Roginue.
UI, APRICA/ORIL RELAT! CRSA?

Maxtao PEMA and Jarier LASTRA, both [RIL aesbers, have taken the initiative
slong with several Belgians aympattetio to the Spanish couse, of oryrnising @ group
called Licpo-tavagne. A mooting of this organisation was beld in the Hotel,
Central, Liege, Belgium, on 2 Septerber 1960, Adatasion wae by Lwitation cal,
and geveral mombere ef the CAL (Conlte Telge por le Paix en ALserie, Belgian

Comdttec for Fesog in Aluerta) vere presente

Braman

ra


We

2. Seote Hamel SONA Giincat

Subject, @ Catan, ts the father of Juan dame) QI A verea, @ Cuban inbasay
employes i. dadrid. SusJect is an attec.e at the Cuban tebasay, “acrid, end 19
eleo a neabar of the Cubsa orcantaatiua, [11K (Oepartancnto de investigacivacs del

Bjercito Rovel:icionarto;. Ais ;rincipsl mission to Spain le to give aid ty the

RIL,
2. Jose Antonio XATNC:S Orases

BGSs 2 Deccmber 1925 «! Yesajen do fen redro, Subject was arrested by the
Belgian poltoe on 6 Awsust 1969 ic Liege, Belgiun, aa e sconber of the LIL, Aj of
UP Augual 1965, de was till being detained by the peice, Pio brother, Foltz
TERPOES Orange, bars 12 duly 1999 at rasajes de San iedro, wne Likewise appre~
ended, Tore have teen os further details on Velix. He, lnwover, carrisd on hig
person a List of names ard addresses of correspondeuta ia varia countries which
the Belgian palios confiscated.
3. appre GAZAIL2 wba Lledos

Debs 25 key 1526 tn coma de Lengrwo, Uviedo, Jrain, Subject prepared two
suitcase bombs ehict were sent by refil on the Nedrid-Bareelona train, and which
exploded on the mail car ou 27 June 196). He, then, ts believed to fave fled to
France or Aelginm, After hie arreat by the Belgian police, aluny with other DKiL
wexders, on 6 August 196), be was interrocated and revortedly put scross the Dutch
border by the Belgians of 18 Acgust 1940) bowever, tiere has been no evidw:ce that
he ever entored Relland.

Ae Ploy SUTI:S32 Benayos
Subject wee bees fa cpein and coriiy the Cuban devolvtion fount tn the

Racanbtray tovntalna. io 2 C27
Jodged et the Cutan dsbasiy in teeric, At Liat tire, hu waa en rv.te tu Maris,

Leader fron Cuba, -ubjeet, on 26 duly 190, ves

SECRET


SECRET
“+
France. iio trip to the Lurupcan continent was const “ith iL mbtere. In
Lisge, Belgium, he was arrested on 6 Auguat 1763, amt interrogated, if wae then
purportedly expelled fros Duigtum a0 of 27 Acg-at and returned to Ceba. A later
rojort, however, stated that he corarted by lace for Parts on 12 August 19606
Subject has been (dentified as the instizater of the boabinga whieh took
placa in San Sebastian, Spain, in late dune ot early July, 1920. Me etated that
further acta of trrurisa wore to bo comittied in late tly. Fron atd~uly to
carly August, ba waa in Toulouse, Prence. tn 6 Audist 196), sAEiM was apprehunded
L weabere by the Telytas police in Liege, Deigia, Mo was

along with other 2:
searched, quvationsd, aud re, ortadly sunt acres the Detch border on 1U August 1960.

There has been, bovever, no evidence that acither he nor hio conpatriot, Arturo
QuuEAtiz Wate Lede, eve currently in Holland, or in fect ever entered ie Dutch

territory.
6. Maxten 715A Go-galogt

SOB 7 April 192) of Villaneuva, Spata, Me Lives at 37l fue St, Laurent,
Liege, Belgiua, and is a novbor of ARAL (Agrvpecion ejublicuna Earanols co Liege).
en anti-Franco group-which 18 duninsted ty Communists and ‘ociarieta. Aovarding
woe abject 48 an architect by rrofesaton and is in
cherge of the polftice! and dirlomtic agtters for tho DIL; but he hag ben Ldentic
tied by otters ae the acrountant and f:zanctal manager cf tre DL in Lege.
Te. Kamel Abderroraa HUET Homey gee Uenuch Es

MB: 73 Cotober 1923 in Barcelona, Spain, Subject solicited finmuotal eid :
frou Oubs and other Latin Ansrican comtries, sjcoitenlly, arge:tina and Vonsovela,
for ocntinued CRIL tarrurist eotivity in Spon in a letter to "Cie® OLEYABA, heed ea
of the Cuban Rational Bank. de aleo requested that 0. 2VA3A or Ravl CATH. ountect

Gerere: ALbarto BAYO Qtraud Ja an effirt to cation bin inte saving support to the

SECRET


a ee ree

TEL en a eS

a

seater, Be Likevtse elated that the teu Portiguéee, Ferrando

StS BAL Castes and Alberto Alesanirine ds SA'TG, were both ast etic Kean

the DRLy end ve caldera Angoha t. be ‘ametuer cosy frent®. Dos SAT.3 ts

«reportedly orguutaing a ghipavnt of Yugoslav arco to co to Fortugeso Africa

tres Tangier. RAI ena one of tho orrvetecs uf the Boigtan police tn sugust 190.

As of 19 Atguat be wan otilt boing ccta:ed by the Police.

8 Rafaed varia OK uiy
2:51 29 Octover 1920 in Madrid, Spain, Ha ie a citiaen of feneausla. Be

ce was errected by tie Beigian polico in Loge ea e DRIL meaber in early August 1960
snd a2 of 19 August wes otild being detained by the police. Bhen he was scorched

and interrocated, ths following was fount to de in his possoesion:

a)
(2)
(3)
(3)

‘A sabotage omanal prepared by Ocmral Alberto RATO
‘A dulayed action incendiary dxvice

Miscel?aneous correspondence

Finscotal records and ether docunents
