# 104-10064-10001

## Page 1

104-10064-10001

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING AGÍIO!

SECREI

MARKED FOR INDEXING

Chief, WH Division

Itird.

Chief of Station

FROM!

WH/Miami; C/EUR; C/WOMUSE/SO

27. 16-6

SUBJECT

Chief of Station, Ottawa.®

(SMABOVE)

Contacts with Cubans in Canada A

ACTION REQUIRED -RSFERENCES

Action:

Reference:

FYT 21-6

(OTTAWA 20131, 16 June 1972

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY OUAUFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

1.

We are attaching a note from SMABOVE which describes

to the% Venceremos

Brigade as Louis Henry Jones. This information was also

furnished LNERGO.

2.

the reference.

Part of this information was also used as a basis for

• RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Theodore D. NOLTHAM

Attachment:

2 pages

Distribution:

Orig&

1 - C/WH att h/w

2

- CoS,

WH/Miami att h/w

- C/EUR att h/w

- C/WOMUSE/SO att h/w

CROSS REFIRENCE TO

GISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

22

COCOA 17008

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

20 June 1972

H&S FILE NUMERR

defer

c/pit

7390

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SE

Attachment to (OCOA)17!

June 14, 1972

A reliable source acquainted with Cuuu: Mission

personnel in Canada provided the following informacion on

the dates indicated.

5 May 72 - Julio GARCIA lutierre?, 2nd Secretary

at the Cuban Embassy in Ottavasiniorand

source that he had a conversation viiin

a journalist from the United States,

Warren DAVID of Montana, earlier in

day.

the

GARCIA then related to source

that DAVID, who was on a one day visit

to Ottawa, wanted to visit Cuba together

with two of three of his associates who

are also journalists interested in

obtaining material for articles which

would view Cuba in a favourable way.

DAVID indicated to GARCIA that there was

more to be discussed in this connection

and proposed they meet that afternoon.

Source was not in a position to report

on the outcome of any subsequent meetings

between these two men.

10 May 72 - Source advised that Oilda ARGUELLiES.

Villares of Union City,

New Jersey a

contacted the Cuban Consulate in Montreal

and advised that she would like to return

to Cuba after living in the United States

since 1956. Source received the impress-

• du a ser out

ion that her decision in this regard was

prompted by her husbands death on 13

January 71 and the fact her brothers and

sisters reside in Cuba.

19 May 72 - Source advised that Carmen DIAZ Guzman,

6514 Schwartz, New York contacted the

Cuban Consulate in Montreal regarding

parcels he mishea to forwara to cuba.

Source learned that DIAZ has a girl

5 boys and appeared to be acquainted wiüh

Julio Alfredo RAMIREZ Otero.

8 May 72 - Julio Alfredó RAMIREZ Otero, Cuban Consul

in Montrealsadvised source that Lou JONES,

an American residing in Ner York City was

attempting to contact him and could be

---

## Page 3

14-00000

8 May 72

- 2-

reached at telephone exchange 685-4116.

FAMIREZ related to source that JONES was

to meet 136 people from the Cuban vessel

130 of Noviembre" arriving at the Port

Source

"EBENA"' in Paris sometime ago and had

also seen some friends from East Berlin

while he was in Germany. According to

source, JONES was expected to visit Cuba

on May. 26.

He was also extended an

invitation for a social visit with

RAMIREZ sometime before July 172.

BOR

---

