# 104-10072-10188

## Page 1

1104-10072-10188

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

- LA 33

CLASSIFICATION

RYBAT

SECRET

CAUTION- BLANY FORM EEQUIRES

SECURE STORAGE

• ISS PIELD

ORIGINA. OR'S REQUEST ANA HOS. PROCESSINO

INDEXING REQUESTEO 202 PROC

NO iNDEXING

ню.

Chief, LA Division

Chief, EUR

APERTURE CARD REQUESTEO

RYBAT REAM PHABOVE A

Ligt of Anti-Castro Cuban Extles Including Dates of Birth.

ACTION REGUIRED • REFERINCES

Action:

FYI

WARNING NOTICE/ SENSIZIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

22

References:

A.

OCOA719386, 12 August 1976

OTTAWA 27601

71-6

l. Forwarded herewith is an additional list of anti-Castro Cubar

exiles including dates of birth provided by EHABOVE)

The list was

passed to Identity of referenge B by Cuban DEf MaJor IvanT ER NAN DE 2

Rodriguez in response to/HABOVE*s request for more identifying data on

the Cubans.

2. [FHABOVE has passed the same information to their I.O. Office

in Washington and to LNERGO.

RETURN TO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Picotten M. Fowen

Matthew H. FONDER

DiCA

Attachment:

As stated h/w

(!. 2)

Distribution:

2- C/LA w/att h/w

2 - C/EUR w/o/att

13, 201

18; H3

lial (187

NO (0)

1802 HUE

nifetir

9605

RECORD COPY

IGTZ

CIDES EEFLASMIOS FO

22

ГОСОА 19100

CLASNISFCARIN

& Saptember 1920

19=2-110

ODUCTIONS

08

---

## Page 2

14-00000

danuel

DOB:

ARTIMES BUESSA

29 Jan 2932

Prudencio LiZO BENITEL

DOS:

4 Jas 1021

MOTORIO C. LUCAS VAÑECIANA

БО3 :

18 Oc: 1928

Jorge r."

JANEROS CRISPO

208:

14 ANg 1229

jasus E: LAZO RIVERO

DO3:

1.5 Oct 1924

Guido

MARTINEZ VILCHES

DOG: 27 Jan 2933-

Guido

MARTINEZ MUNOZ

DOB:

28 Dec 1929

Guillermo A.

MIGUEL SANCHEZ

JOB:

21 d0r 1930

•Orlando D.

ALITZA PEREZ

DO5: 20 Nov 1938

*

Ramon do

OROSCO

DOB:

7 Aug 1957

Ramiro (DE) LAFE PEREZ

DO3:

6 Sept 1920

Alonso Inocenyn

VERA

DOS:

28 Jul 1928

Juan j.

PERULLERO RODRIGUEZ

208:

8 ма5 1930

Guillerno

NOVO MOREJON

DO3 :

10 Feb 1923

Rafael

SERRALTA NOGUES

DOG:

2 ANg 1928

22

COCOA 9400

He ATT. I . TO

+ lu

Ốcện- 19400

38

Пот СиВА

Manti-Pro tr-Cuban

agale, on liat privided

(sume person proviously nentioned) by -HABOVE)S

(iot mentioned previously by us or

Cubans)

¡previous spelling by Cubans VECIANA,

antonio no further names given)

/Believed to be the same person as

previously mentioned,

only Jorge JAÑERO

originally on Cuisan list)

(Probably the Dame person as previously

mentioned)

(Unable to decide between MARTINEZ

VILCHES OF MARTINEZ, MUNOZ.

Cannot

identify or match name with photograph,

(Cannot match nama

with photograph'

because of the similarity between

VILCHES and MUNOZ.

Cubans originally

gave the name Guido MARTINEZ)

(Believed to be the same person as

Guillerno MIGUEL previously mentioned

by the Cubans. Birthdate matches FBI)

(not previously mentioned by the Cubans.

However, could possibly be Orlando

ARIENZA)

(Believed to be the same person as

previously mentionts oy the Cubans)

(Identified as the same

mentioned by the cubans person proviously.

(20t believed to be same person as

Alão VERA previously mentionad by

the Cubans)

(Probably the same person as Juan Jose

PERUYERO previously referred to by

the. Cubans)

(Appears that jovo MOREJON is not tha

same person as duvo SaMpod previoualy

identified by us)

¡Identified as tro' same person as

previously mentioned by the Cubans)

19-0?16

RECORD COPY

---

## Page 3

1400000

Oscar

DOB:

I.

ACEVEDO ALEXAN

13 Mar 1950

Carios

VARORA VARJONA

820;

21 Mat 1953

ISIZEL

203:

31 May 1932

ISIZEd

203;

DITO CASTRO

20 Jan 1932

D03:

PINO SPENGLER

13.80I

1940

CElando BOSCH DELUSA

DOB: 19 NOV 1925.

Luis

DOB:

...

FASIAN PENDAS

15 Nay 1928

- 3 -

(originally seferred to by the Cubans

as. Oscar Luis ACEVEDO" OSCAt LuiS

The FBI points

out spelling should be

AKA MACEREDO.

Cuban and*FBI DOB's match.

Thorefore it is felt that all are

talking about the same person.

This

individual has been identified)

loriginaily. referred to by the Cubans

Carlos

DE VARONA:

The FBI had no

IECOId Of a DE VARONA)

(The Cubans referrer'

to a Israel

DEL PINO originally®

The FBi believed

DEL PINO to be the same person as

IsIaal PINO-PaNOS, DOB:

29 AUG 36-

obviously they are not the same person

(The three PINO's mentioned

are not the

säme person and it is impossible to

match the correct one to the photograph

without further particulars)

icannor establish which Israel PINC

matches the photograph.

Therefore ne

cannot identify subject accurately)

(It has now been established that the

¿Orlando BOSCH previously referred to by

the Cubans and identified as Orlando

BOSCH AVILA are not one und the same

persons.

we also cannot establish

whether or not Crlands BOSCH and Orlando

BOSCH dELUSA are one and the same person?

The FABIAN previously mentioned by the

Cubans and the Luis M. FABIAN PENDAS

mentioned here are probabiy the sama.

person and the nare.

bos and photogtaph

reitesert one aná the same person)

(RUIZ has been identifica)

¡not previously referred to by the Cubano)

HECtOr DiEOnSO RUIZ

DOB:

12 May 1932

Adel

SAiVADOR SLEZ

DOB:

5 Hug 1943

JeSUS DOMINGUEZ BENITEZ

DOB:

15 Feb 1941

Ramon

OROSCO RODRIGUEZ

003:

24 dug 1922

This

(BavIrEZ has been identified)

(Cannot identify OROSCO RODRIGUEZ

dclinitly.

Ho could also ba identicis to

the original name reforrid to by tha

cuban and could maich the photo.

Current-

¿y we have three Razon OROsCO's listod;

S3CREM

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SE?""

11 Ramor. A. ORoSCO, 2i Ranon oRosco

RODRIGUEZ, una 3) RaMon CROSÇO CRESPO!

(Believed to be the same person

oreviously rentioned.

Name and

birth-

dates match.

Rolando Pederici MiNGLiUCT

DOB: 18 JuL 1930

Flags

22. 00: 1030

JORGE ROBRONG

1936

ANgel JUSTINIANO FERRER

203: 28 Aug 1925

conradd sonarcush

SANCHEZ

DO :.

12 Feb 1219

lichioved to be ine same person as

previously mentioned;

¡Believed to be the same person as

previously nentioned by Cubans ang seems

to match r31!

(rais individual has been idertified)

---

