# 104-10169-10072

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10169-10072

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSITIED ..

SUBJECT: (Opriaso

FROM

RID/CE

US

INTERKAL

*"SE ONLY

CONFIPENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

(Ghana)

NO.

KX-1446

DATE

14 May 1963

COMMENTS (Number

1o whom.

Sort be oct so cole not to come

DATE

RECO

FWD'D

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

15 MAY 1963

CI STAFF 2C 35

RID/CE

GA-70 03

Attn: Sarah Harmaduke

amy son

17-5-63

S.

"RID/AN GA 50

"MIS

7.

8.

10.

TO:

PSB/USIA

18.

роям

RID/FI 1$ 4003

FILE TITLE

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

FILE

NUMALR

201-271141

ANGLONUAS

EDITIONI

SECRET

_ COMPIDENTIAL

INTESHAL

USE ONLY

THOSE

---

## Page 2

14.00000

SECRET

48-1446

15 MAÏ 1963

MIKO RANDON

BUBJECT:

MBOIS, DavId

(MCCANNS, DavId Graban)

aka!

MaC CANKS

KC CANN

subject Lora seattle, Nashlagton, & March 1920,

legal sesidence 31 Grac Court, Brooklyn 1, Hew Yorki

reportedly man on a tro-year acholarship to. Communist

china folros 1960%, but left after sight nonths bocause

ho man disgatintled. As of the date of this information,

which cane.Irom a report dated 23 May 1961. ITOM Au. Un

avaluatod source, subjoct tas giving lectures in AmerICan

Isterature at Calro University, Calro, Egypt.

Included

with the roport man a lotter to the editor of the Egyptian

Garette.

The letter, signed "David DuBOIg" and supposedly

written

by subjoot, opposed the "participation and connit.

ance as the unitod

States Governsent in the rebel Invasion

of the Bapublle of Cuba. "

It compared the Unitod States

Government troatment of the racial probion in Merica vita

Unsted States polloy toward Cuba.

It sald that the unitod

Btatoe Government appliod the Communiat labal to youn

AMarICan HaRToon who refusad to obey "the infanoua lamia

and cuntons that force then into second-Olans CitIzenBRIP

booauna of the color of their skin," And it went on to

say that the sumo tautio man used to attaok the revolutioner

roveranant of Yidol CASTED. The lottor road lu past:

Doapito the ability of the U. s. governmont to

81nd Individual apologists anong Aserloa'a

Megroes ciaining to spast for our alllions,

let lE ba known thas the tront namE of

AmorIca'" Negroos, varking pooplo, studenta

and honest intolleotuale, aupport

thio revolu

ELOnAry gOvernMent of PIdol CAsTIO und savo

supported it from 1ta Inception.

1 nano oboot: 45/A- PSA

GANN

Mana;radin and

xx-1418

RIDICEI IMA, DH/LOD

Banod on! OAIR 1070, 1 Aрґ1l 1082, МВСА 10882, 23 Hay 1001.

SECRET

FILE IN 201.27/14)

+41-0871192

---

