# 104-10427-10090

## Page 1

AAAAA

104-10427-10090

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SUBJECT:

& tab A.

ind D. (C)

CONFIDENTIAL

List of CIA Material Requested, But Not Reviewed,.

by the HSCA (U)

OP/DDA: Doris Houdesheldt compiled the list attached

OLC, Susan Kessier compiled the list attached as

Hazel K. Kearney

listribution:

Driginal - Addressee

1 - DDA/RMO

1 - RAB Subject

1 - RAB Chrono

ISA/ ISAS/RAB/JW/ad

15 December 1978

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 2

13-00000

NAME

MACLEY, Tennent "'Pete"

PRCE, William V.

BUSTOS, Charlotte

COBB, Viola June

FLORES, Daniel

FOX, Jerome E.

•UNES, Robert E.

MAIL, Sanuel G.

KEENAN, Thomas J.

MENT, William M.

KIMSEY, Herman

LYNCH, Grayston

MILER, Newton S.

MORALES, David S.

MURPHY, David E.

MC CORD, James

NOEL, James A.

CONFIDENTIAL

OP Files Available but not Reviewed to Date

OLC Number

78-0070/40

78-1565

78-0443/1

78-2060/2

78-0433/1

78-1455/1

78-2185/1

78-2475

78-2845/1

78-0433/1

78-2060/2

78-0070/16

78-3481/3

78-2434/5

78-2098

78-1035/1

78-1069

78-0070/40

78-1565/1

78-2735/1

78-0448/1

78-1035

78-2439/1

Letter Dated

29 March 1978

3 May 1978

2 March 1978 &

25 May 1978

2 March 1978

5 April 1978

14 June 1978 &

11 July 1978

31 July 1978

2 March 1978 &

25 May 1978

16 February 1978

28 November 1978

Oral request (?)

11 August 1978

6 June 1978

8 & 15 March 1978

29 March 1978 &

3 May 1978

1 August 1978

6 & 8 March 1978

28 June 1978

Oral request by

Betsy Palmer

24 May 1978

WARNING NOTICE -

INTELIIGENCE SOURCES

MUD METHODS INVOLVED

CONFIDENTIAL

DESIVATIVE CL BY

000612

O DECL & REVW ON

ws Dec.

DERIVED FRON

A9c5.2

1998

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SVONFIDENTIAL

OLC Number

NAME

¿'NEAL, Birch D.

PICCOLO, Joseph S.

SMITH, Joseph B.

TiC BORN

WHEELER, Robert P

WIGREN, Lee H.

L'ILLIAMSON, Earl Jo

78-2534/1

78-2845/1

78-0070/16

78-2475

78-0433/1

78-2060/2

78-0070/40

INCODS, James S.

ZA: BERNARDI, Robert

78-0433/1

78-2060/2

78-0433/1

78-2488

CONFIDENTIAL

Letter Dated

Oral Request (?).

25 & 31 July 1978

16 February 1978

11 July 1978

2 March 1978 &

30 May 1978

29 March 1978

Oral Request by

Betsy Palmer

24 May 1978

2 March 1978 &

25 May 1978

2 March 1978 &

6 July 1978

---

## Page 4

13-00000

https://asc-app-01:7002/jfk/boxes/JFK-RH14/coversheets

SECRET

DOCUMENT

Box Number: JFK-RH14

Source Number: 104-10427-10044

CADRE Ref ID: C00564362

Pub Date:

02/10/1977

Pages:

10

C00564362

104-10427-10044

SECRET

4 of7

7/3/2013 11:24 AM

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

ISEGRET.,.

10 Feb '77

Source:

rotes nade by A. Goodpasture

for John Leader,

IG Staff

Subject:

Background

(Coverage of Soviet ard

ssets

mbassies)

1. Unilateral coverage.

cico Station was opened in

April 194? (by Bill Doyle) until

of Win Scott as COS in 1955, Charles

Anderson III (still in LA/HQ) had developed a support apparatus to

exploit leads fron the Soviet Enbassy. This unbrella type project (LIFEAT)

consisted of multi line phone taps, three photo sites, a mobile surveillance

teal and a nail intercept operation.

a. Fhone taps were placed by an'employee of the telephone company

Rateraal in that hed.

Who was hardled by David WILSTED (pseudo).

The nunber of lines

tapped was linted a

noy availability of a listening post rearby

(since the taps were not rade in the nain'

and English!

Spanish (Soviet, Polish, Czech,

these agents (nostlyaaaa

(whick

anscribers. Generally

- Mexican Arerican) were related

th

That time felt was good security in that

if they

terred

about shop, they would talk to each other.)

b. Three photo sites were handled by Arderson with the kelp

JFK-056

Copy 2077

carera, film, and concealment

under LIFEAT (LEITED, LILYRIG,

a fixed

site bang opposite across

the street fron the front gate of the Soviet Erbassy which had

both a vehicle

and foot entrance. The Soviet gate has an the

Northliest corner.of their conpound and LINICED vas diagonally

across a double barrelled street

n the sourcest comain a

Sie junge page 1o

182 RET.

07375-65-24009464

22599.

L00164

PAGE

231 • 319

COPY NO.

C003015

SECRET

13

---

## Page 6

13-00000

(SEGRET

that block. LIlITD vas the first base and it creraüed surictly on an

e: arinental basis in thie early suages. I think the lexi Station Lought

man" was being releasea to the

photo operators were noved to another apt

nearby. The property tas

sold (under an operational agreement with LIOUSINE

for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartment biding to te built

on this site). LILYRIC vas planned es an alternate photo base to LIMITED.

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check) on the sare side of the street

as LEITED but in the midale of the block South. It had a slanted view of

the front gate of the Soviet Erbassy. The agents in LLITED and LILVRIC (both

lexican fazilies) as far as we knew, were not acquainted with each other.

LILYRIC was a rented apartment. LICALIA, the third photô

was located

in one of a row of four houses on the South sidel

wisea the lexico Station purdrasgna e2958 foteck date), also using

LIMOUSINE as the purchase

"This site overlooked the back garden oi

the Soviet Enbassy conjo

The purpose of this operation vas

to get good

identification photographs of the Soviet personnel (uso at thet time were largely

unidentified in Mexico Station records). Tre three photo sites were handled by

Ramon Alvaraz (lexácan citizen of U.S, mother

uno sauget elecentary level at

*Foen fron LITTED

husband, Carlos (Mexican doctor)

developed and printed the

act print strips. The master plan

tut

essed, Inside,ISD nan from 1957 to 1959 (Harper

Folt!- resigned) could not handle the volume and as the unprocessed fila began

to accumulate, the inside co (iahoney) becare disgusted and took the filn out

for Raron's brother-in-law to process (probably early 1959). Thus Razon

becare

che handler for all three photo

bases.

A sersitive staff D nonitoring operation

ISEMET

3005016

PAGE

232 3 3184

COPY NO.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET,

was run out of another one of these houses (crypt for the four houses tas

LIUST,l, eto). This was hadled by Glen WIDDaN (outside ISD officeri ana

l'aroney using HU TDY teans for monitoring. This opsration sas also separate

frOJ LISALLA. Tre two houses in between sere.

rented to unsistecting tenants:

dozen or so agent bit Els in consisted as A 1218

panel truck (which

could be used on stake_outs for photo consra e).

The plan was to activate this group by radio (fron LIVIDED BASE)

Soviet

wen soreose of interest left the/ambassy gate ard stay with then

until they nade their meetings.. These agents knew about the LNITED

SASE cecause they had IDITF photos for identification purgoses..

This worked fairly well until about the niddle of 1958, (check date)

when one of the surveillance agents got too close

s terget and

was arrested by the mexican transit, polade

sourned over to the

Hexican Secret Service.

the Station could arrange through

a cleared attorney

bet out (Juad Austin of the Goodrich,

Little and Riquerge fir), the agent: had identified Sancho (who was

evacuated across the border at logales by Bob Shaw) and the inside

phone number of lahoney (who was subsequently replaced by Louis

Fuckeit). As a result of this flap, the LIFEAT project was broken

up into several others.

mile not cranged but sere given

Haggard replaced Andersón in handling

the unilaterall bao ti

surveillance tean

and the photo bases through Renon.

d. LIBIGHT was the crypt used for a unilateral (originally) mail

intercept handled by Charlie inderson III, The agent (l'exican) had

a seni official status sna arranged to obtain selected letters froa

0003017

PAGE

COPY NO.

233

of

319

---

## Page 8

1,3-00000

a sub agent in ite postal sysien (I thini at the airport). llis case

¿lEonso Spera,

were later/ Puckett, Rovert Foldaann, and Alan White.

officers

2. LIaison coverage was unreliable aid insecure as ccaracterised by the nature

of the lexican services at that tire.

Security with Which we dealt

foreigners and political inyge

ROHIBITE

of its tire on control of

heir agents sere vicious, venal,

corrupt extortionists. Robert elberg established contact with one of then

Levine De Leon (later LIFIRE group) in about 1950 or 51. He gave them some

training (a group of about five sureillance types) in travel

control working

the airpori as vell as file searches of names fron

DES

Hetrs where the files

here poorly cryanized and often inaccurate.. Now and thema

•, sore useful

information has developed but it could not be

detended

relberg was

replaced by Phil foettinger: (resigned a

remained in Mexico), rahoney, Thoras

Hazlitt, ard Rosert Feldmant

The Ether)

During 1958,

War Scott net socially sone of the chronies of they

Mexican President elect, Adolfo Lopez l'ateos.; During this period, the J.s.

Ambassador Robert C. Hill (reflecting the policy of then Sec State J.F. Dulles)

was energetic in organizing groups to "fight cormunisn". One of these seeds

grew into a proposal kiguel Alenan (ir. son of foraer liexi President), acting

Lor Lorez: zieos, nade to lin Scott

Progers 0) we DAIT Mr teephone tap operation. This

distressing years of a shakedown.

The Mexican in control left

bienced, old, and greedy. His

deceit and corruption. LIEIEGLIT also

ranipulated coatrol over the principal agent of LIBIGHI rail intercept. The

first case officer vas Alfonso Spera inside with Turner Smith (retired) outside:

and John

(TSD training officer for surveillance and head of the listening

post wiere thirty telechone lines vould connect as hell as a transcriction roos

C003018

PAGE

234

COPY

of

NO.

31916

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET.

staffed ij thrican ainy officers.) Initially the station tried to set every

derand rade Ly thie Mexicans. both Shith'and John hed language difficulties ana

personal proclems associated with being outside

The station so thet the fexicans

vere virtually uncontrollaile, spendi

production of transcripts

part of the bargain in the

we wanted. Spera was repiaced

approve a request by LIELICAIT that Brady had turned down by the son, liE:OX-2.

Finally when the cost becane exhorbitant and there was little to show for it,

the project was revarped. Snith and John returned to the U.S. and were replaced

by a TSD officer, Charles Flick, who has put inside the listening sost to naintain

Brady was reassigned to other duties rendirg ≥ trensfer.

the equipaent./ Scott toos over the project as case

offices

§ with LTELEGANT.

He designated Ann Goodpasture to meet dailing with

• routine supervision

of the listening post, picking up transcriptst

sages. Goodpasture had no

dealings with the isxicans except then Scott was ill or out of town. Generally,

all decisions were made

by

This was about late 1961.'

3. 'y nenory is a little vague about the origins of the Cuban Elbassy but I

think the staff first developed fron a pro-Castro group celebrating on New

Years eve 1959. As I recall, it was a rakeshift arrangement of volunteers

through most of 1960 and El with Tor Hazlitt producing voluninous reparis ci

their actinities and recruivirg agents right and left anong Cuban nationals in

Mexico City.

1. Personel assigner BRINDUCTION

the period prior to Oswald's

barren coission. Io deterpRiuhBEl

ow is no was in liexico during

ro res there and what they vere doing 1

teve gro:ped persons torether chronologically with areas of their assignsent

as the

coviring iron 1950;to 1969 so that sostize names pop up, one can tell wat

feriod they were in Maxico and

their assignments, at the tine.

SECRET,

0003018

PAGE

235 ₽ 319

COPY NO.

17

---

## Page 10

13-00000:-

SECRETI

8/54-6/59

COS

DEOS

Hinston Hi. Scott (deceased)

7/56 - 7/59

Alfonso Rodriguez (retired)

10/58 - 12/62 Warren Dean (retired)

6/63-9/65

Alan White (retired) -

10/65 - 1959 Stanley Watson (retired in lexico) :

COVERI ACTION

Prior

to 1954)

Howard Hunt (retired)

12/54 ÷

7/53

Williard Kill (resigned)

12/55 - 9/61

Stannard Short (ret

9/61 - 3/64

Chief

8/62 - 9/64

2/64 - 6/65

9/64 - 21/66

10/65 - 1907 Stanley Watson C/(retired)

Don Heath

6S - 77.

Joseps Smith (retired in lexico)

CUBA OPERATIONS

56 - 4/62 Tronas Hazlitt Chief

2/00 - 4/62 Jack Stewart (retired Costa Rig

4/63 - 4/65 Bob Shaw Chief -

9/63 - 7/65

Ray Swider i

10/63 - 5/65 Lorna Mackay (ne t

8/63 - 6/65 David PhilliesTona

9/65 - 10/68 Joseph Piccol

10/55. - 22/67 Pesgy Maggara

SOVLET TARGET

6/57 - 10/59 Louise Lyon Cretened?

9/59- 8/65 Harbert lanell Chief-

4/65 - 12/67 Canthia Hausmann

6/65 - 7/67 Alica Pittinger

6/62 - 1/67 Prentice Machine (os)

6/56 - 8/53

6/58 - 6/63

6/63 - 79

George Misto

Boris Tarasoir (retired

in Mexico)-

80

30165

0003020

PAGE

COPY NO.

236

of

31915

---

## Page 11

13-000,00

• 7

SUPFORT ASSETS

Inilateral phono taps

149 - 1961

Charles Anderson III Chief

'55 - 4/60

Peger laygord Asst

'561 - 1/62 Frank: Estancona

Chief

60 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan

64 - 12/67 lüchael Farmer

49-71

in Mexico-

PROHIBITED

ilateral photo Cubans

'59 - 4/6L Robert Zanbernardi (resigned lexico)

'59 - 6/62

Richard Spathar ISD (retired)

ilateral: photo Soviets

54 - 4/59

farry I. Mahoney

(retired Chicago)

57 - 8/6÷

A. Goodoesture (alternate. 6O -

and internal routing)

58-6/63

Louis D. Puckett (retired)

63 - 10/61, Thomas Keenan Robert

65 - 66

William Bright

813)6

gent

signed in fexico,

Cubama. ol repating

Traval.

aison phone taps

59 - 1909

Winston Scott (deceased)

59 - 2960 Alfonso Spera

(retired)

59 - 1960 Turner Smith (outside, now retired)

59 - 1950 John'

50- 1961

John. Brady (retized)

32 - 1968

A. Goodpasture

31 - 1971 Charles Flick (outside

ison - surveillance

i9 - 1961 Thonas Hazlitt

162 - 9/67 Robert Feldnann

) Cutside unii

5 - 12/63 Glen Hidden (retired) -

8-4/54

Josepi. i, Resigno (os) Unit bloun and closed doin

SERES

Pandan

800015

0003021

PAGE

COPY

NO.

237

• 31914

---

## Page 12

1:3-00000

SECRET

trig

About nid 1962 (check date) LItto

pütside lexi repü asted

for the telephone nunvers of the Soviet,

and Satellite Ebassies.

With this forewarning, LIFEAT (un:

was disconnected. However,

as I recail, the Mexicans

5 Soviet lines, 3 Czech,

2 Polish, 'and 1 lugoslav I

se listening post had a live

monitor who nade short sugaries

iteresting conversations for a daily

resume which has received each day arourd & a.n. (passed by Flick to Coodrasture

to get to Scott before 9.a.1.) Later (when the reel was completely recorded)

full transcripts were typed and passed to the station in the same way, however,

there was usually a time lag of a day or so.: Those transcripts which had

Russian or another lenguage besides Spanish or English vent out of the listening

post the day after the transcript (of other conversations.

reel) was

typed. These reels were taisen to another locatign

here

trey

were translated

end typed. In the case of the Russiant

tiòng,

Boris Tarasoff usually ran

about a week behind the date af

goversation because of the volume of

Russian conversations

enbers of the Soviet Erbassy. During this

period: (fall of 1963) the reels were probably being brought into the station

and carried to Boris by one of the people from the Soviet Section or they nay

have been carried to hin by Flick but I think I brought the reel in and gave

it to Herbert Kanell to take to Boris. Herbert Hanell and his wife Berbara

handled all of the grocessig of Soviet transcritts. ly job involved screening

the photographs as soon as we learned th

calling hiaself Oswald was

crobably an Anerican.

However,

is a backlag because the

photos weis cloied up three

* the

ones ricced up were usually

for dates a few days previously

the doctor proce:sed the filn on a

night tige basis. Fhotographs were nade usually until

one roll vas used but

later we tot it cranged to one day coverage on each roll - in other vords the

operators, cleared ite canera each day wether there was anguisarage a full

roll of filn exposed. Instructions' vere to cover office hours, photograch each

SECRET

0003022

238

PAGE

COPY NO.

0e 319 20

---

## Page 13

13-00000

-1-

"SECRET

nev Soviet and fazily, all foreigners and foreign licenee plates. Funan

error did oscur but generally the agents vere

conscientious.

The Cuban

embassy coverage had more soptisticated

(a pulse carera) iut it

frequently develosed rechanical diff

(I think) handled this film

and

ob Zarbarnardi and Scathar

Lorna lackay screeted

the film inside the stati

I am certain that ti

Oswald call came to our attention fron the

Soviet line. It was picked u, and taken to Boris for a translation jecause

the caller was trying to speak Russian. Any delay was caused by waiting to

compare the photographs with the typed transcript. There were no copies of

transcriots every nade in languages other than Spanish or.

Scott could read only those two languages ard ke

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0200172

_SWIST

0003923

239

PAGE

COPY

of

NO.

319

---

## Page 14

13-00000

1C.

SECRET,

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION-

ACHENED

1-h1

2.

PROMBITE

SECRET

0000173

• 0003024

PAGE

COPY NO.

240 • 31g9

---

