(o4-10188-10748 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

ad Hse iene eects ieee cere a ineseis ais iiegsenis ates jibsinananposiansate’ |
toe _ CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
” - esteriat contains tefsrmataoa e2RUEs the Netlogal Defcase of the Uaited States Withia the easing of the Dipiceace Law “ite
a SG. gece 308 and toy tee Chenoa or revenue of WOK th aiy Oannet Wp am Uoeciberieg. perma ls pretated Oy IW,
SECRET
ae NO FOREIGN DISSEN
COUNTaY ‘Cuda. REPORT NO, = CS. CI-316/0024!-64
SUMJECT Eulogio PONS ; OATE DISTR, 17 July 196% :
NO. PAGES 1 :
REFERENCES, :
DATE OF 22 + !
INFO.

piace & Washington, D.C.

DATE ACQi July 1934
This 1S UNSVALUSTEO NSSEMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE.

FIELD _REPORT.NO._

source A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

wwuab

Headquerters Comnents

1.

Zulogio ‘PONS, pseudonym “Eloy,” who resides at Calle Septizs,
Esquina 60, Apto 2, Miramar, Habana, is an officer in the
Direecion General, de Inteligencia (DGI - General Directorate

The following report is one of a series containing
personality information provided by the source and
includes supplemental information from the records

of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on

any of the individuals mentioned in the personality
reports without first checking with this Agency.

of Intelligenca).

Headquarters Comment

1.

The records of this Agency reveel no indentifiable
information on PONS.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSE‘

Tec

WH/SA 7 (1), WE.1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

3 ay Rpts. y

OSSOLETS PEETIOSS S2cTIONS.

