}04-10064-10012) .. 2-202 F 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE { UNDER THE bad JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 T= -

4s noted in reference, forwarded herewith is @ copy of the sub-
ject memorandum. Please note that the information in the memorandum
’ Paragraph B. 4. b) is particularly sensitive and should only be
: ‘eiven 5 properly restricted dissemination. “ -

stark J. shy be

” ATTACHMENT .
. Memo dtd 27 Nov 67
\ Distribution

- - C/SB Div w/l.cy attach
ee “1. 1 = C/FE w/l cy attach.
Secon 1 - C/WOMUSE/ICG w/1 attach



‘s SUBJECT: BEHEIREN and the Your U.S, Navy Deserters

_ 4: Origin snd Dovelopsent of BEMSIREN.

1.: Founding: -BEHEIREN (Japan "Peace for Vietnam" Con-
Smittes) was organized in Apri: B politically
dependent group of intellectuals and cultured persons whose

purpose was “to help restore peace in Vietnam." Actually, it
is 2 loosely organized group of ex-JCP members, progressive
intellectuals, leftist cultured persons, and leftwing students
- banded together in the name of opposition to the Vietnam war
by two common denominators, dedicated anti-Americanism and
refusal to be dominated or controlled by the orthodox Japan
Communiat Party. . 7
2. Hard-Core Secretariat: Tho real force behind the .
organization of BEEBIREN, right from the beginning to the
present, bas been a brilliant Conmunist named YOSHIKAWA
F w7 Eodeha. whose conspiratorial organizational skilis bavé
econ perhaps the most indispensible ingredients in eee
development. YOSHIKAWA was expelled from Tokyo University »
for his role as a ZENGAKUREN leader in the 1960 U.S./Japan
Security Treaty riots. He then went into fulltime JCP mass
movement professional work, becoming the Secretariat official .
in charge of international relations for the Japan Peace
Committee. YCSHIKAWA broke with the JCP in late 1964, :
following the rupture in relations between the JCP and CPSU.
in May that year. The inspiration for BEHEIREN springs in
large measure from YOSHIKAWA's personal desire to use his
organizational talents in countering the JCP and its Japan
: Peace Committee. YOSHIKAWA, in addition to being a well
qualified English linguist himself, years: ago surrounded
himself with a small following of similarly qualified
* Ldeutenants, whom ke brought along into BENEIREN to give ..
him the necessary depth and experience to run this. new ~ a
ocean ee bare functions as BEHEIEEN's. meetcatt
meral.



3. Respectable Intellectual Front: F, =
mental Coununist principles for ieee ovens ee Tee
than the JCP itself follows these tenets), the ex-JCP

organizers of BIHEIREN kept themselves in the background
and lined up a nuzber of prominent Japanese progressive
intellectuals and leftist cultured persons to front for
BEREIREN. The choice of QDA Wakoto, ex-Fulbrighter and
popular young novelist, to be the chief front man - Chair—
°- man - Was an extremely lucky stroke for BEHEIREN. ODA has
= taken to this grand-standing, front work like a duck to
water. It has given him 2 chance to give unbridled vent to
bis own latent anti-American feolings, puffed him up to the
extent that he has been dubbed “the emperor" by other BEHEIREN
activists, and givon him at long last an ideological mission
to pursue. YOSHIKAWA has performed magnificently in feeding
ODA'’s ego needs and in infusing and indoctrinating ODA so
that his words and actions take on sufficiently virulent
anti~Anerican overtones. ODA has served another vital
function for BEHEIREN by recruiting a sizeable number of
fellow intellectuals to join the ranks of BEHRIREN activists.
{Attachment 1 is a listing of a number of those Japanese who
have been identified as active BEHEIREN supporters or sympa~
¥ Be :
\

ms Organizational Development: In its 2-1/2 year history, ..

SBEEET) lag NOt appreciably changed its organizational format,
although it has moved its office three tines and modified its
mame even oftener. BEHEIREN is not a “mass organization", be-
cause it has had no sizeable popular backing to the present
time, Its hard core, secretariat organization is run by
YOSHIKAWA and his lieutenants. Its public image, intellectual
front is led by ODA, and given body by a score of like-minded
“intelectual friends of ODA and YOSHIKAGA, who form the loose
body of EBEHEIREN's activist leadership.. Under this BEDEIREN
leadership superstructure lies a paltry base of only several
hundred BEHEIREN “rank-and-file":supporters, mostly young
Japanese students. Organizationally, EEHEIREN has no formal

* membership system, so its base of supporters is fluid and not
precisely measurable. However, the base support for BEHEIREN
hss definitely been on the upswing during 1967, and made such

. notable strides during the past summer that JCP Headquarters

~ officials finally felt constrained to note with concern that ~

>>| BREBIREN was beginning to drain off a growing number of pro-

gregsive youth who otherwise would have been absorbed into
the JCP's own youth movement. BEHEIREN leaders: have tried to
help this growth along by setting up a youth section, calling
at "Young BEHBIREN.” BEHBIREN's imaginative actions and
publicity~conscious programs have been responsible for its
recent growth, and this period of growth seems to be now on



i"

+
the verge of really picking up speed and momentun. As a result.
of its role in the case of the four deserting sailors, BEHEIREN
bas reaped bountiful publicity, has succeeded in touching ao .
delicate Japanese public nerve of sympathy and pacifism, open-

}. dng a floodgate of support for BEHEIREN from all over Japan.
When this case fades from the limelight, it’ is still most
likely that a fair percentage of current wave of_popular
rt for BEHEIREN wil:

support its future activities,

5. Activities and Accomplishments: BEEEIREN has engaged
in a number of propaganda actions, and participated in inter-
national anti-Vietnam War activities. It has tried to co-
operate with certain front activities in Japan controlled by.
the JCP, most notably the Japan Committee to Investigate War
Crimes in Vietnam activitiés, which culminated in the Tokyo
Court of last Atgust, but has been soundly and rudely rebuffed
by the JCP. In spite of this, BEHEIREN bes churned along at

its own pace, with a continuing series of anti-Vietnan war
actions, most of them related in some way to the American
pacifist movement. In this regard, BEHEIREN has succeeded in
cornering a virtual monopoly on Japanese contacts with the U.S.
pacifist movements, and has effectually capitalized on this to
promote its own action program. The case of the four deserting,
sailors, while an.apparent lucky windfall for BEHEIREN, only
points up the fact that BEHEIREN, through past organizational
work and promotional activities, was “johnny-on-the-spot",

ready and capable (unique in Japan in this regard) to take

the ball and run with it. BEMEIREN ran all the way in this
case and scored its most notable success since it was organized.
(Attachment 2 is a listing of BEEGIREN's more notable activities
- since its founding. Attachment 3 is a partial listing of
American and other foreign persons known to have been in
contact with or cooperated with BEHEL >) .

"B. The Case of the Four Sailor Deserters and BEHRIREN.

1. How It Started: The consensus of all available avert
media material, with no recorded dissent, indicates that the 7
four sailors voluntarily left their ship, went AWOL, and ended

up wallowing around Tokyo's hippie-land. Precisely what personal
grievances prompted the four to embark on this mis-adventure is
not yet known. But, up to this point, the four could fairly be
categorized ag misguided youngsters, gone astray in a foreign
land, and due to get slapped back in line with traditional

Navy justice when they finally decided to stop the fun and go
back to the ship. So far, this made their cases far from

“" SEQRET.



14-00000

: } How It Becere an Incident: But instead of returning to
oe “ship of their ovn volition or being apprehended by. tha
Shore Patrol, the four made contact with BEHEIREN leaders,
Again, press reports indicate that this was just a coincidenc

‘'F that there was no pre-planning by the four to contact BEHEIREN,
Tpore are no available overt nor covert reports that indicate
othervise.; But, once the BEHEIREN people made contact, they
recognized the potential immediately and moved fast for the
Rill. (Attachment 4 ie a Yomiuri Newspaper clipping, 22 Kov-
enber 1967, that is both « representative and comprehensive
account of this phase of the case. Even if this article

bould contain some minor inaccuracies, the basic line secus
factual 2nd bas not been challenged eleevhere.)

3 *" BETEIREN Takes Over: When the four made contact with
aoe suddenly becake an entirely different baligane.
BEHEIREN had everything needed to capitalize on this: veteran
activist leaders who are experienced enough to recognize the

indfall that had come their way; an apparatus that could |
provide hiding places for the four; long standing -lisison
contacts with Soviet Embassy offici for use in pienting
exit from Japan; solid contas reliable American
\ pacifists with whom the bona fides of the four sailors could
be checked; money and organization to capitalize on the
propaganda potentiel (such as preparing a movie film for the
os qastiel BEHEIREN press conference announcing the desertion,
prepared more likely than not by BEHEJREN stalwart
BubG, an independent f4im producer) and Engiish speaking
aa capable of symp2thizing, encouraging, soothing, or
agitating the poe) young sailors, sq that there would be 20

The BSEHEIREN 4 aratus At Work: While many of the
- spall * pieces of Thin this Separates, ie, which would put the whole case in
proper detailed chronological order and eliminate specuiztion

“on minor points, are still missing, enough is known now,
through overt and covert sources, that the picture of BEHEIREN's
‘ adept handling of this case shines through een ie The follow-
. dng elements, all part of the BESEIREN apparatus, make tp the
bulk Ga the picture; “3 4

) Hide~out: When EEHGIREN got hold of the four on -
* about 26 October, they had to be hidon out for the approximate
tvo week period until their exit from Japan could be arranged.
This prosented BEHEIREN no great logistical problen. A number
of the BEESIREN activist leaders have hones well suited to A
harboring fugitives. For exanple, BEHEIHEN activist leader
has 2 villa Phidden avay in Chignsaki, which
was used on the night of 12 September for a meeting of about
20 top BEHEIREN leaders, 2nd which would be highly suitable

SECRET:



rit

for hiding the four deserters. Other private-dy —
longing to BEEEIREN leaders and loyal Le racoe
ad both the Kanto and Kansai sreas.

* p) BEQEIREN/sovict Linison: BBIBIREN Secretary Sor |

YOSmEANE hae maintained periodic contact with Sovict Enbas

officials for years. BEGEIREN Chnirman ODA has met Soviet

Peace Committed officials in Moscow, The exact means of how

this iiatson was accomplished in this case is nrecisely—inom—

y

/

fo:

cc) BEHEIREN/U.S. Pacifist Linison: BEMEIREN contacted
- Dartmouth University professor Ernest P. Young, who flew to
Japan on & November, apparently helped BEHEIREN leaders check
out the bona fides of the deserters, and returned to the U.S.
on 11 November, (Attachment 5 isthe translation of a Sankei

Shinbun article, dated 21 Novemher, reporting an interview

With Young, giving his version of his role in this case.)

5. Escape to Moscow: The four deserters turned up in
_morcow on 20 iovenber. The press has speculeted widely and
“unanimously that the four left Japan on the Soviet passenger
ship Baikal on 11 November. Again, there is no dissenting .
opinion, overt nor covert. The only mystery concerning this
finnl phase of the Japanese portion of this case concerns the
mechanics of how tho four boarded tho Baikal and who assisted

‘im this maneauver. But with the sailing of the Baikal fron

Yokohama, BEHEIREN completed its most highly successful and - |

- beautifully executed activity in its 2 1/2 year history. Not

» only did BEXEEREN smear the American Government's image in

‘ Japan, not only did BEHEIREN gain 2 vast amount of priceless
publicity that will swell the ranks of its supporters and be
invaluable dn future activities, but BEHEIREN doubtlessly
even made a profit, financially, on this low budget operation
= donations are still pouring into BEHZIREN Headquarters fron

~ gall over ee to “help and proteey U.S. deserters”. . -:



SECRET

& a Attachuent No, 1:

Japanese Who Have Been Identified as 9 4}

ictive REAEIREN Supporters or Sympathizers

10 soseTrANA pave COBERIREN Secretary General) = former scp
een bor.

~ 2. ODA Makoto (emminen Chatruan) - “popular pee eoe
3. KAIKO Xen ~ Akutagava prize winning novelist.

4. KUBO Keinosuke — film producer and director,;

5. -TSURUUX Shunsuke ~ Doshisha University professor.

6. .. TSOREE Kazuko - sister of Shonsuke (thoir father is the late
Philosopher, Yusuke). ‘

qe poe SzanenE ono) ~ high school teacher. .
8. MUTO Ichiyo ~ ex-JCP (tried to travel to U. s. to represent
TREN at October 21 demonstrations this year, but was
denied a visa to enter the U.8.)
9. YAHADA Atgughi « ex-JC?.
10. FUKUDA Yoshiyuki ~ playwriter.
tt Nt hori

11, TQIINAGA Ichiro ~ cartoonist.

<_-12.. FURASAUU Mitsusada ~ professor:
AWAZU Kiyoshi + graphic designer.
TAKADO Kaname = Christian peeeees) e
YOSHIDA Kiju. ~ film director.
UMIHARA Shun - writer.

HASHIHOTO Mineo ~ Buddhist Priest.
HOTTA Yoshie ~ novelist.
GOTO Hiroyuki =~ scientist.

0, KOWABARA Takeo = professor at Kyoto University.

SECRET



14-00000

TERAL Hinako |
"26, AMAL Funthike |,
27. NASU Masanao

28. MATSUMOTO Ichiju
“28, FUKUTONT Setsuo

. 30. KORIHARA Yukio
31. ete! ANDO Jimbet, CIIDA Mido, EGAVA Taku, FUSII Nittatsu,

HARIYU Ichiro, HOSHINO Yasuseburo, ICHIX Saburo, IZBYAUA Juro,

ISHIDA Takeshi, KAKAI Yoshiko, KASAI Seiichi, KATAGIRI Yuzuru,
ATO Shuichi, KAZAMA Wichitars, MATSUURA Sozo, KIDOKORO Kasao,
KITAKO32 Satoshi, KOBAYASHI Shoichiro, KOMATSU Sakyo,
KOBAYASEI Tomi, KUNO Osamu (Shu), KURODA Hidetosh4, HARDYAUA ,
Kasao, KIDORIKAWA Toru, MIZUSAWA Yana, MORITAKI Ichiro,
MUCHAKU Seikyo, HURANATSU Hiro, NISHIO Noboru, NOMURA Koichi,
OGOSHL Teruo, OTSUKOTSU Yoshiko, SERIZAWA Tae, SHIRAI Shinpel,.
SHIMMIRA Takeshi, SHISHIDO Hiroshi, SUGIURA Mitsuo, SUGIYANA -
Tatcusar, SUZUKI Masahira, TAKEUCHI Yoshitono, WADA Nagahisa,
YAMADA Moneniteu, YAMADA Toshio, YAMAGUGHT Kosaku, YAMANISHT
BiichS, YASUDA Takeshi, YOSHINO Genzaburo, YOSHIWARA Koichiro,

“ QKAMOTO Taro, MATSUMOTO Seicho, BI Rokusuke, IZDMI Taku,

ANAYA Noriko, KATO Yoshiro, SHIROYAMA Saburo, TAKABASHI
Taketoma, ODAGIRI Hideo, OKUMA Minoru, SANO Kenji, SUZUKI
Michihiko, KUBATA Hsnya, SHINGIARA Seiet, MARUYAIA Kunio,

SECRET |



14-00000

4, KURO Kondi, SONAKA Yotaro, SAKAMOTO
‘TSURUSHIMA Sotsure: +_SAmaMOT¢

’ Yoshikazu, SAITO Masahiko, etc.

: ou
CCUHENT :: eee not recorded a here, many of the above persone,

are ex-JCP



Attachment No. 2

iSone BEHEIREN Activities and Accomplishments |).

a ‘a Regular once-per-nonth demonstrations at a public park in
Rca Tokyo, consisting of eater ‘speeches and followed by street
Set marches. + 5 5

e

2. An ‘all night TV “teach-in"™ with DEHEINEN: activist leadors,

along with special guest, U. S. pacifist Carl Oglesby (Chairman of

, the Students for a Democratic Society.) |. 7
pacha ack ty

3. A full page advertisement in tho New York Tines (16 Novenber
1965) , ‘followed by another full page ad in the Washington Post
GB April 1967), appealing to Americans to stop the war in Vietnan.

404 ‘atleot in Conference of Two Nations for Peace in Vietnan,"
hold in Tokyo in August 1966, and attended by PEHEIREN activists and
-seven U.S, pacifist leaders (including Dave Dellinger), and observers ,
fron France, England, Canada, the USSR, Pakistan, ond Mongolia.

S.A wess meeting in Tokyo in October 1966, guest speakers of
which were French pacifists, Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir.

6. Nationwide tours of Japan for lectures and peace rallies for
such anti-Vietnam war pacifists as Professor Howard Zinn and the late
A. _Kuste of the United States, Claude Bourdet of France, and Thich
‘Nhat Hanh of South Vietnan, 3 _

7. Awass meoting in Tokyo in January 1967, sponsored by .
HEHSIREN and featuring U.S. folk singer and pacifist Joan Baez.
y . pl EE

. 8. A continuing program of direct distribution of pamphicts to
U.S. troops stationed in Japan, and those coning to > Japan on warships,
and for rest or hospitalization from Vietnax.

9. Participation by two BEHEIREN activist leaders (Kyoto
University professor KUWABARA Takeo and International House staffer
TSURUAL <osbilcpult . taking advantage of a trip to the U.S..to attead
# non-political Japan-Anerica Congress on Cultural Probicmsy in ~
enti-Vietnam war Speech rallies aid CemmMBtratiols Ht Dartmouth
University in early Nay 1967, followed by an unsuccessiul attempt
#0 invite Cassius Clay to visit Japan on -bebaif of BEBEIREN. .

10. Continuing efforts to bring to Japan for a nationwide

SEGRET



speech tour on behalf of BEUSIREN, Soviet poet’ Yevgeni Yevtushe:
an effort that has not yet reached fruition but is s' per

11. “participation in the Stockholn July 1967 “World Conference ~
on Vietnan” by sending two eae activist leaders as delegates.

12.° Cooperation with the J.s. Quakers,’ pacifists, and Earle
Reynolds in sending the yacht “Phoenix” with medical aid, first to
Haiphong, then on a second trip in the Fall of 1967, secking but

failing to find landfall to deliver medical aid to either North or

South Vietuam, aaa

13.)! Attempted, but failod duc to inability to obtain U.S. visa,’

to send a BEHEIREN activist leader gure Ichiyo}) to the U.S. to
participate in the 21 October 1967 enti-Victnam War demonstrations.

# 14.: ‘Currently carrying out a fund raising campaign to send an
aid ship to. North Vietnam. In this, and other activities, BEHEIREN
leaders aro maintaining ever closer liaison contact with their
counterparts abroad, such as the French “Cotiite’ Vietnam National." - «
. In an effort to generate public support for this aid ship fun
“- raising cenpaign, BEMEIREN succeeded in issuing a public appeal,
" under the endorsing signatures of Tokyo Governor MiNOBE Ryokichi and

Yokohama Mayor ASUKATA Ichio, as well as the usual Intellectuals

supporting BEMEIREN, . - a

: 15. In October 1967, BEREINEN solicited approval to hold anti-~

Vietnan War demonstrations in front of the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo,

expecting to be denied and then intending to make this denial a court

- test case. Instead, DEHEIREN was given this permission, and conducted
two orderly and well-publicized demonstrations in front of the Smcrican

Enbassy, garnering a larger public turn out of participants than in

any previous BEHEIREN-sponsored denonstration.

aoe 16. Assisted and abetted the defection to the USSR of four
: American sailors from the U.S. Navy carrier Intrepid. Following this
. success, BEMEIREN's most effective activity to date, BEHEIREN leaders
are organizing a permanent “underground railway" of Japanese intcll-
ectuals who will volunteer their hones as possible “way stops" for

hiding future U.S. military deserters thet BEHEIREN now hopes to _
nduce. S pamers Lense ie

Comment: For other details, seo Tokyo)intelligence reporting:
‘., ¢; CEGMR11547, 31 Hay 1966 E ee
oe (EAT+12046, 14 October 1966
Ree |Boz 12600, 10 May 1967 BLO R
+) |SPRRL2851, 5 July 1967
CEST-13081, 8 September 1967
CEVT+13154, 27 Septenber 1967
E \FST-13303, 22 November 1967
oo: - Glso, @53-6790, 11 daly 1967

SECRET -



14-00000

SEGRET

Partial Listing of American and Other Foreign i
Persons Known to Have Been in Contact with or
Cooperated with BEBRIREN .
Auericens. B
Staughten Lynd (ez-Yale professor)
Norman Wailer (novelist) ~
Dave Dellinger (Editor of Liberation)
Howard Zinn (Boston U. professor)

Donald Keyes (National Committee for a | sane
fuclear Policy)

6. David KcReynolds (Chairman, War Resisters*
“ League)

Te A. J. Ruste (now docoased)
“s) 8. Karl Meyer
Lore ls) @,: WAldem Davidgon

Bradford Lyttic
Charlotte Thurber.

\« (iss) Quentin Bassett (Students for a Denocratic
: Ta s Soedety)

Y woets ‘Levin Boston ve professor) |

,~ Robert Ockene (pterans and Reservists to End

Carl Ogiesby (Chairaan, Students for a Democratic |
E Bociety) i

16. Barbara Dening (Associate editor of Liberation)
7 Joan ce (folk singer)



14-00000

SEGRET:

Za

; 4 “18. Ira Morris (Paris expatriate)
Otto Raisan (phonetic, New York City peace activist) |

Borbara and Earle Reyzolds ‘(iverced but separately
ik _—_________—_. ective long-time residents
we Ks, Shs an Japan)

x

Wilton Rn Christensen “(an American pacifist drifter,

who gave BEEEIREN its first: ..
experionce in the ssummer of .
1866 in exploiting for pro-
paganda in Japan, and then in
arranging the onward journcy
of an Amcrican who wanted to ~
defect to the USSR) _

Brian Victoria Chead-shaved pacifist and "converted" 5h

Buddhist priest, known to be in . .
regular contact with the Soviet oe: ,
Embassy in Tokyo)

23. Mx. Wiliowby (fnu, phonetic, "chief of the Quaker
" a Beace Action movement in the U.S'!)-°

24. An unidentizied: ‘Anerican of Jepanese descent, from
Eawaii, who is currently a student at Waseda University!

H
Kosaku Yamaguchi (reportedly born in U.S., present .
———.  edtizenship status unclear) (formerly
“was & professor at Momoyama University
in Osaka, but has been teachin at the ~

University of California an Caeenth .
. for sone tine)

‘Otter Fore igners x a
eS 2+) Wikhail Kotov, USSR ‘Gsovtet Peace Coanittes)

i Bek 4 Claude Bourdet, France (leench Comittes to Sunport Seer
the Vietnanese People)

3.! 4 ’ pescy Dufz, Great Britain (Campaign for Nuclear Dis~ :
de |Sames Endicott, Canada (World Peace Council)
.,Wadz Ahmed Faiz, Pakistan

6. Gabita —. USSR

EGRET



14-00000

SECRET ©.
7. Mrs. Erdenebat Ojon, Mongolia
8. Konstantin Shugnov, USSR

9.. Francis Marccl a France (Conite'. Vietnam
7 aaa a aTaree! National) 3 ac

10, Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir, France .
11. Thich Nhat’ Hanh, South Vietnan

This is not, by any means, a complete listing, nor
- does it necessarily list BEEEIREN's most important
activist contacts abroad. But this list is re~
presentative in showing the breadth of BEHEIREN

iiaison abroad, Lenten cael with the ee
“new wert".


x WA, "sec.
Sapa of ;tle "Japan
f.PeseeForVietnain’ | commit.
Pilee (Behotren), teilel a ptess
seonference Tuesday \ihat the:

4am Japan: but’ the! Bohelren
ewe

Rot help them to"tto 20,
ae ll

Jap

The, four deserters fom the US isireralt carr

ivision appearance Monday
by the. Soviot-liner. Baikal

2), Soviet port of Nakhodke,”'
at

Soureea in the: Metropolitan
Pollet Department said ‘Tues,
j Pday” that ‘the four -Amedeans
.f0uld have boarded the ehip by

‘@ “special “gangway for. Soviet

Gevernment otelas, "3
+ Japanese’ watchmen'-werd fon,

guard at another gangway! for

ordinary . pagsengecs, when 1223

listed. “passengers. “including
‘elght- Americans, boarded tne
Uner ‘before: it’ departed Yoko"

hama‘at'11.50 aim, November 11.13;

(4 The': watchmen "told police
that'they didnot see any per
‘con Who was -not on’ the Bae
«Senger. ist. board “the ship
the ordinary: gangway.

AT: off

‘i

and|

led ‘the

scores
‘Baikal
Police sources sald that

it was “quite possible” that the|
Soviet authorities in ‘Tokyo ar
[ranged ‘the deserters’ exit..

5 -_* Beheiren Pledge

Yuich! Yoshikawa, secretary!
[general of ‘the Japan Peace-For
‘Vietnam Committee :(Behelren),
‘told a press. conference Tues:
day that the’ committee could
[not disclose - show. “the four
Americans left ‘because it’ had,
promised. not to do #0.

He neither affirmed ‘hor’ dent |
ed the

mache the inal opr

¥

house: .:

# Intiepid who made a dramatic tele-
loved’. to ‘have ‘loft Japan irregularly
a on, November 11 for the Far. East
o Not Worried,

When he.first met the deser-!

«they: were. practicalivi
penhiless “but appeared - quite}

Theoncemeds Nae res
iy “enieyed ‘hot’ ae
yan td porentiy’-enjoyed “‘ipsies 1c",
Bie"Beheleem to hia ahegsee Living. on ehecee anueele, fe!
in which they: could utilize ORd drink | such as oy
their Engin profeteney. =" Moodies) "and “ahoenue
‘The Behelren tald trenw that
‘they. could not: Ive: in- Japan:
without being “founds by "ane
japatiese: police or. US. ‘military.
thoritles sooner. or later, ‘Yo.
shikawa “sald.” * .

ia Moscow are beli

tine agaietbie Vier war
fa Pre conerine ang "Se
embee'ag soma Mel
"Yoshikawa" ala: teat the de}
‘serters first | wanted to’ live,

‘He eaid ‘the four americans:
wanted: to: live in" Japan, ‘ant?
if-possible’ in Tokyo

|, Nalto and’ his feng. Yamao:
decided to ask the help of the!
[Beheiren “and ‘eilveted et
Hour "men tov the “Boneitt
round: November 26.

'Nalto “raid he “belleved tha
all the four Americans - were.
(Rot communists .and that they}

fdeology,” f
He ‘aid the four’ must have!
decided to go to. some™neutral
epuntry, via the Soviet <Mnion
after they learned thatsthey|
lcould: not. tive in: Japan." =
A spokesman for. the Justies
Ministry “ said’ “Tuesday that}
there “was. nothing’ legally
jwrong’ in the “four “Americans
Heaving Japan because the ade
ministrative ‘agreement ‘in the!
fapan-US Security ‘Treaty gus

their:zantees Us. military personnel

Japamere hipple frlends hang-.the right to come, to stay in,
ing ‘around: the shinjulwu- ares. OF leave Japan," \ *

e twoAltman gare Re the fous ane ee eae at

Batty 22, “thd geo eee at sted US. mil!

= ins pale

Pr tice. ‘tary personnel, ¥
Joes. eae hermore,” If thetr’ exit}
Naito wala, Aes took place. on'’Noverher I it~
alah et Btey ana wes Seren US" snr
made ano est fo the
ocean Sasreyeihe tle aden oMal requet io the
ei Nath cnbenspe Palce :
ean ST! “He: alsg said there. were’ no
‘Japanese laws. ayowing chargea
Ito" be prelerred. "aginst See
‘Behelren omelaig ang other Je,
nese people who: “protected”
iBhe“Amerieans"48 “gee ea
thelpea their ‘Gepartare to Ra
Govier. Union,

‘Naito said he “met “two ‘of|
the. four " deserters—Airman|
Dick 19, and Alrman|

eA. Lindner, 19—at-a hip}
ple—hangout ‘in. Shinjuka|
‘around October 20.”

He sald. both.” Américans!
Wore leather jackeis and other.
informal clothing which they
fald they, borrowed from



14-00000

Prof YOUNG Says Four American Deserter Seanen Not in’ sansa Any Hore
: Went to Tokyo and Tridd to Dissuade Them;

Probably Escaped from Japan on. the 12th or the 13th

“Cow. York, November 20, Correspondent Tadashi ONODERA)'” “Profeanan'™ .
of Dartmouth College in the U.S., consented to an interview
ith this. veporter on the question of the four American ‘seamen who deserted
‘from the U.S. aircraft carrier Intrepid. At the interview held on the 19th,
*-Professor ‘YOUNG clarified that the.:Peace for’ Vietnam Association ‘(Beheiren, :
with Mekoto ODA acting as its vepresentative) contacted an anti-war organiza,
tion in the U,S., and at this, Professor YOUNG hurriedly visited Tokyo, and :
meeting the four seamen in a room-in an apartment house in Tokyo on the 9th
|. and 10th; -tried to persuade them .to return..’;In regafd to ‘the pres ent where-
prabouts~of these four seamen, hé made the noteworthy, statement that "those
four werg still in Japan, up.until the night of 11 ie, Lith: then, i
Te Josen cc

- “ing: aid. vou go to Japan?

professor: Behesren contacted David sefencen, a pacifist abtivist
Dipiin the U.S., asking him to "send someone to Japan to hear the stories of
2 4ythe four seamen and announce them in the U.S." I have been in Japan twice,
|, and I also once served as special assistant to Anbassador REISCHAUER. © +:
During that’ time, I became friends with Beheiren representative’ ODA' and”
other intellectuals in Japan. It was for these reasons that I was given
yethis ‘assignment; I personally have never, participated actively 4 in the
or goci-Vietnan war movement so fare. (ine).
CD) 5g see tt re
Cr+ met. When: aia you arrive. in, Japan, ‘and. where < you.

£60. Professor:.. I arrived. ‘in Haneda on November 8, and met the four seamen ©
pron the 9th and the.10th... The. place of interview was in an apartment house’
“pein Tokyo, but I -cannot say. at, this time where that apartment. house was and
who owned it,.- However, on both days, I talked fully with. these. four seamen,’
zefor more than three hours. on each occasion (according to an investigation” .”
: made by the public security authorities, Professor YOUNG arrived in Japan -
‘toward the evening of the Sth, and stayed at Hotel Tanakanwa'in + Shiba
3 Minato: o=kay until-the morning ofthe auth). 3

Professor: The desertion Was completely the de
persons. . It seems that the four seamen decided not to retuin to. the ship,

when the Intrepid ‘entered Yokosuka Port on October.17, and they were per- -
ymitted to go ashore for rest for one week. My dmpression.on meeting these’
four seamen was that they were definitely not ‘deserting for the purpose of
self-advertisement or that they were giving false reasons. “I am convinced

‘that they, deserted really. C5 of doubt.abgut the Nieman ware |.

What were the movenents of the. four atten they deserted?”

Professor: ‘On the “aight of ‘the 23rd, ae es before the ‘intrepi
Tiiwas ‘dite to.sail, the four went to Shinjuku, and told the people whom they _
. net at i bar they happened to vinit, that "we are fed up with war." The
a i..Japanese who heard them sympathized "ith ‘them,:and.at’one time, the four
lived with some hippies (according ‘to this paper's investigations, they’

include Mx, K., a student of Tokyo University's Liberal Arts Department,
and vanguard artist Ae who gather at Pugeteudo in Shinjuku.). Finally,



14-00000: |

they were taken’ to Behieiren by a student ‘who spoke Engiish (according to

‘this paper's investigation, this was Mr. S,, a Waseda University student),

we that, they ‘were hidden by Beheiren. I cannot say where they were
jens) i" E

‘ Professor: y Dubpose in visiting ‘Japan ‘was to dissuade she; four. .
- I explained to. then what the results of their desertion would be. I even
told them that they would never again be permitted to stand on American soil
their fatherland, At,the time I met-them,-it was-still. ata: stage, where
hey would only receive tight punishment,
saying that they “had missed their ship.
fra, end ny persuasion had no affects

‘== ‘The four’ Seamen's desertion was announced in the fori! of 4 pres
interview given by Beheiren,. Were there no facts-of the:
‘desert, during that period? i...

lovever, ‘they firmly denied:
y fact of their having. been forced” saying that they had voluntarily .
nsuited Beheiren as to whether they should publicly. announce the we";
‘intention to desert, and 4 so, in what form this chould be made.

=~ Where are the four seamen. now, and where are they planning to go?

Professor: I am certain that the four’of them were ‘still in Japan,
up until the lith, the day I left for home. However, they already knew .
fully well that it was not possible for them to obtain asylum in Japan.
They even said that "we will probably have to go to some third nation,
which is neutral." (The public security authorities judge that the four
seamen left Japan inmediately after Mr. YOUNG's persuasion, and consider that
they; probably were smuggled out of Japan-after ‘the 10th, and before the
evening of the 13th, when -." .Beheiren.announced their désertion-at.a press
‘conference, However; Mr, YOUNG says that the four seamen were in Japan up
until the night of the llth. . Therefore, the, possibility ts strong that they |
were. smuggled out of apa by-ship, ‘between :the night of the Lith and the .
evening ‘of the dath. ds Sah

00." What. were ‘the reactions, ‘in ‘the.U.S. Bs

"progGecor: When'the films were publicly chown,thebe wae bigt exeitencnt,
with vows and rows of television and ‘press cameramen. I thought I would be
exposed to persistent questioning by the FBI and the CIA, after I returned
hone, but. so. far, I have only been, questioned nce .by: the Navy's, Intelligence
Section, about ‘the circumstance: t, seems ,that, American | authorities con= |. +

©. “prosdasob: A certain television ‘station asked the nictho
the four’ men about Ker son's. life..,, This nother was completely perplexed,
saying: "My son;is. a. most, average American youth. “His:school records © |

