# 104-10172-10033

## Page 1

N104-10172-10033

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DOE 14/034

*.3y042 y

I Croser 1961

user uncoatantal sunstration Farco (2Y59PS)/CS0C To

a Cuban Bipeditsa

08

save Burt, Presidente Pareventunt, Ind,

1 Calitarils, ronairod the following

the Intercontit

ateo enclosed a Sons

rolanterne.

Deer Dare,

Sorry I bi

to

107

FEE

have time could you gita sa sors girlies

1n

8020

ori

boa

er for airdroja: Also, Is asydodo

Mith one al the expediticis to sibe coma

e been bothing ball cus of us to go

big story on a run for IY nod sawsreal

anstion to conting and lieds too story

It Pers Vontures 1s Laterested, do

rood on Bod Staclair and the ottarg

"As alrejs,

lal Very Beaus NR

end

Posa laster for valintee

Sit, aid

SECRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY,

63 6027

100-4-14

4 Ост 1961

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

A Rare donas Dos 02 /405

Dogr Sir,

Thank jou for your letter requesting laroration conceralag our

organization. He have received anny letters such us yours and are

pleased to find that there are thousands of young coricans that

aro aulous to autiveiy participate in the Clsht agalast Internat

lonal Connunis.

perso, dot an ine are a de a gearent and one poore.

1ng organization. Our primary mission 1y to provide qualified

Instructors for nif legitimate orgenizations couvely righting the. l

communists. Xine feelychat suericans vould be In a better position

to defend their country if they were trained in the arts of Guers-

illa Warfare and Survivl Xis, a deld supporting unit our presentl

facilitleg are extremely, limited jad we are accepting only those

veterans that were Special Forces trained as Guorrilla Wartare

instructors, survival, parachute qualitied otc..

slo me suggest::

that prior to an indariduals leaving his hone he should have already

purchased his own untrorms, combatlequi paent, have a car, and enough

money to pay room and board until he can be placed with one of the

units under our commenda We are, NOT oberatias as a conventional?

force and thereforeido notihave standard bartaok facilltles term

or pay:

Considering the arorementioned, should you still be faterested

la Joining, we susgest that prior to your departure for Miami you,

contact a Local Say DIVER Cus (Parechutists) or ex-paratroopers,-

5001739

and sve, them train yours a parachutiste

after your five student.

Jumps you should bey your on seepest (bacit pack, reserve, boots,

MADGAR

helmety ete.

The porschute training and rive studont Jumps

ghould onst not more than $40.

ill of our sotive neubers are

parachute qualified and have contributed to the costs of equipment

and aircraft.

Thank you agyln for you interest ind if you ish to write address

a11 2312 tO INTERPE, 0/O GERRY FITRICE, CENTRIL DELIVERY, ANE, PIANI

Respectrully Yours,

---

