# 104-10227-10271

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10227-10271

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INTED SPITES DECAKTMENT OF JOSTICE

PE11P:R.N1.

CONT IDENTIAL

f'iler Nis.

FoUruary 25,

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

INTEINAL SECURITY - CUBA

da robruary 21, 1963, a confidontial latormant,

who has furnishod reliablo information in tho past. advisod

that ho had icarnod that

to tho Unitod Statod, liad contacted

sor the purposo of advisine him that Joso lilro Cardona,

prosidont ox: the cuban lievolutionary Couscil, an organtration

opposed to Fidel Castro, Cuban Filuo Miniator, ind apologtrod

for not koonin: an appotatont ho had boen trantod vita

saprossod with what

Cardong statod that he had been extronely

nad dano lor cuba and

that thase individuala who had said that

had to bo ronovod had already boon expolled from

Cardona's group.

cammentod that tho

mosting Cardona hau lIsbod vas a booting of all tuportant

cuban loadors sho vont to Cuatenalu to slin m agrooment.

Indicatod that Cardona vishod to seo

in ordor to nollove any minndorstanding and

açrood to suo Cardona anytire ho vould como to quatonale.

is Instructod

to isguo Cardona a vioa at bia roquest.

Tus position of

who vorifiod through

the "Diplonatic list' dated Novemior, 1962, publishod by tho

Unitod States Dopartmant of sitato.

Til: decument contalas nolthor

roomeditions nor concludlons of

it !: the triberty of

ic in: its contents ire not to bu

distributed

outsion your agoncy.

* BOPY

COME IDENTIAL L-/2425

GROUP I

Excluded fros autozatlo

1E22a0nid0g

---

