104-10106-10034|

om 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1902

PSE Se aicaioet  ¢ iL: ram
‘1 . is 7 Sh ° .
a SIGHAL cesténiise d . : e .
See ‘coe ae we mao :

oF ag. 0 “oO Oo oO Oo af7ReTURETO

‘| L :
ort) ce eee ew
str Ou2308Z DIRECTOR “y30872

con: (AS, iieo: Fite =elas fare DO2- 7 aaaue neve wd ri
ozfep2. esx tonic. O aerunvro PER
TO: PRIORITY LasgiEand y SID. : Ht,
‘ MHABYSS PBRANPART ¥ i 7, ie
REF? -LAAIIAND 22730 IN waza00sl ia Serer hes (ra.

Le. REGARDING JOSEPH RAYMOND. M ER oF L AL 20h 257604 “de

2.0 DEA Has INFORMED BKHERALD JUNE a uplin THEROLA was OF
OPERATIONAL INTEREST... _ THEY REQUESTED TRACES AND: STATED HE R PORTED

KED FOR BKHERALD IN LATE LISO"S + ue ‘REPLIED THAT mR. MEROLA HA
: “NEVER WORKED oe BKHERALD » ALTHOBUGH WE ERE AUARE THAT HE HAD. “MADE



. DATE:

sebastien MESSAGE

PAR DO Bat produce
DIRECTOR :

: FILE

USE IS ‘PROHIBITED THROUGHOUT THE INTEL COMHUNETY AND ISR POLICY.
PRECLUDES HIS REGISTRATION. HOUEVER; EMPHASTZE To DEA THAT THIS FACT
NOT ae in TO PROHIBIT THEIR USE oF SUBJECT» BATISTA WILL BE i
RECORDED AS A CONTACT OF DEA IN ‘BKHERALD FILES IN CBASE ANY OTHER U.S.
GOVERNMENT AGENCY EXPRESSES OPS INTEREST. DEA HEADQUARTERS IS BEING .

INFORMED GF ABOVE. ¥ ee ee a

b- THE FOLLOWING MAY BE PASSED TO DEA? _ BATISTA YAS BORN ©
uo, JULY 2933. HAVANA, CUBA, WAS IN CUBAN NAVY. ARRIVED IN U.S. mn
EARLY ‘a! S AS EXILE. SUBJECT rs MARRIED TO. DAISY DE LA aa T 0 RRE.-.

WAS IN PRISON SEVERAL MONTHS IN 1959 IN CUBA ACCUSED OP BEING NENBER

OF BASTISTA'TS ARMED FORCES | AND HAVEING IDEAS OPPOSED TO CASTRO

” REVOLUTION, SUBSEQUENTLY RELEASED. SUBJECT OF OPS INTEREST TO

BKHERALD IN L4b3-LIb4% INTEREST DROPPED IN VAY AND SUBJECT
TERMINATED ULTHOUT PREJUDICE. ASK DEA TO REFER TO FBI FOR. NORE.
INFO ON SUBJECT. ¥ ;

orig, "3 S80 a :

UNIT: -
EXT:



QUTGOING. (MESSAGE
i 7 ey : -

' la -Jrte ior
4 4
srdnaccentenuzadiar so 1

Sace con a” ace rao we uno oe PAGd OF“ FAGed.

oF Coo oo oe a 3 3
cusssincancn © RETURN TO CA
SEC aR E a, ; Background Use Oniy
(Ltd INDICATOR oaresrate amour BB Not Reproduce stermersnencemenn
STAFF : ; DIRECTOR
OD wore DISSEM BY:

CONF: INFO; FILE 74 Boro2- OD wo woex cE
: Do narurnto | PER

: . Osis
?- FYI ONLY? | POA GRANTED 63 FOR SUBJECTS USE IN PN BOAT

" OPERATIONSS HOWEVER POA CANCELLED WHEN HE CLAIMED HE UNABLE.
~ SATISFACTORILY ‘TREAT HIS SEASICKNESS- IN bus SUBJECT INTERVIEVED BY
“FRI IN-LOS ANGELES» CALIFORNIA RE. GROUP OF CUBANS IN MIAN INVOLVED .
“IN DROUG OPERATIONS. “SUBJECT REVEALED HIS SKHERALD CONNECTIONS TO
FBI. ” aan ey : i - ; : . we ; ‘:
: 8. FILE: : BOO-L1-12/195 201-740127% 201-257804. “ga INPDET-d

*REQUESTED PRIORITY TRACES ON MEROLA AND BATISTA. DEA SOURCES AND :

REGISTER IN ISR.

C2". CAMPBELL) :
DCD7OSS {TELECOORD?

: 24
SP oR GOAN HARRISS AR

© unit LA/NAERC/LA/CAR :
eS Choy See seteedl
See Ft.

Toe EXT: pend, 7m
Pd Foden
AVID A- PAILEIPS ; ALFONSO SPESRA

