104-10162-10247|

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

s
TEEN.
(1 unctassifren =A INTERNAL, ne

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CT Suspect:

=
‘
ic

GIRCEES . COMMENTS stenter each comment te show trom wt
pata. Drow @ tne ouces colven wher wach comment}

c/s2/ct/x aa If your tice percits, this is

| the secont cf the two cases
| I discussed vith you (spotted
| throngh ny ALEXPL@® prograr).

e

|

{

1 i | I would be isterested in your
i { ! views as to bis possible IS
i

A

Hl

i

{ favolverest (and whether I may
te all wet in feeling he is
Soviet dispatched).

| Bo you see an Illegal Support © ,
aspects to this case?
t

P Kap usta

me 61D css" secret C] conrientiat =) TMA uncuassieiep

.

Se aR SO A


srfo/ac - Oh - 22
22 October 1964 :

MEMORANDUM FOR THS RZCORD
SUBJECT: Irving AMON

1. Subject responded to the AEZXPLORS ad for a position as a
Russien lenguage linguist. As vas requested of hin, he provided the
Porms Lik, 69, autodiography, and photograph.

2. “be undersigzea estadiished contact with Subject by phone on

2 Septerber and arrangenents were rade to interview bin on the folloving
day. Ee vas interviewed in the Undersigned's Philacelphia hotel rocm
oa 3 Septerder 1964. ]
SEES

3. The folloving vas obtained from AVON during the interview:

a. Subject, of Jevieh descent, vas born in 1917 in the USA. :
Bubject's father, vhose original nane bad been ;

Philip AMROMIM

cexe to the USA in 1905/06 at the ase of approximately 15, Philip
AMROMIM's parents stemmed from the GOMEL area. At the tine of his
exigration to the USA, he vas accompanied by his rother (his father
died semetine prior thereto), and by the following brothers and sisters:
Yevis, Willy, Ave (vho has since died), Moris, Minnie (now married

to LAIKEN), Pearl, and Max. All of Subject's father's brothers

except for Max, are butchers by occupation, including Subject's

fether. Max graduated from CCUY and tecame a structural engineer;

he has an office on 43rd Street and his firm is called the Anron
Associates. :

bd. Subject's mother, also of Jevish descent, care to the USA
in 1911 (or 1913). Her older sister, Fannie, is married to (fnu)
COREN who is presently retired and living in Florida. Ser sister,
Ruth, married Max AMRON. Her brother, Hyman HORLIK, vho arrived :
in the USA only in 192, owns a liquor store in Bayoane, New Jerseys
Subject's mother has enother sister (nu) who is presently living in
Florida. Subject's mother bas one brother vho io still living in
the USSR. a ee

cin baptist



a

c. At the time of Subject's birth, Subject's father vas
employed in the Brooklyn shipyards. However, he changed jobs
frequently end vas subsequently employed on a farm near Kew
Brunsvick, then in a shoe factory as a cutter, then as a butcher,
and finally becane active in a Jewish cocperative organization.
As Subject's father became convinced that the future of the Jevs
was in Russia user Soviet Commmism, in 1931 Subject's faxily
left the USA for the USSR for Birobidzhen where Subject's father
vorked as en agroncmist (he had sometime. prior thereto graduated
from the Fational Farm School in Bucks County, Pennsylvania).

a. Accoriing to Subject, his fanily returned to the USA

in 1933; the motivating reascn therefor was the 111 health--
setually only coves 22 Subject's brother, Zugene.
Subject alleges that, beceuse they had retained their 8 citizen-
ship, they experienced no problenus either in leaving the USSR or
ia Permission to return to the USA. Moreover, Subject's
father ellegedly did not like life in the USSR; hovever, Subjectis
mother and sister insisted that they return to the USSR after
only a brief stay in the TSA.

e, As a result, lster in 1933 the entire AMRON family once
again returned to the USSR. Again, Subjec. states that they had no
problems in obtaining autnorization from the Soviet government

for this trip to the USSR. Upon their return to the USSR, they
esteblished therselves in Moscov vhere one Noah LONDKCN, a friend

of the family and a construction engineer, took Subject's father
“into his employ". Subject's father worked in this capacity, in
the construction industry, fron 1933 to 1936. Souetine atter the
1936 purges degen, Subject's father worked for Komsorolsk, a Moscew
“patel board construction” outfit. In 1936 Subject's father also
worked for the Paris Comme as a shoeraker. Subject's mother
worked during this entire period as chief of a dining establisiment
fn the school of foreign languages in Moscow.

f. Subject bezan his eleventary education at the DeWitt Clintcn
School in the USA vhere he studied until 1931; he then stuiied in

the Soviet secondary school in Khabarovsk, Birobidzhan, util 1933.
In 1933 he again returned for one semester to the Devitt Clinton
Schoal. Later in 1933 and 1934 be attended the Anglo-Anerican School
in Moscow vhere he completed his 8th grade of school. He then
contimued his studies from 1533 to 1936 in Public School #327 in the 2kth
Bauman Rayon. In 1936 he entered the Moscow Avtodorozhniy Institut,

vbere be studied on the civil engineering faculty, £0 be = highaye enway
engines. He graduated in 1941 at vhich tine he was sent to assist

SESTET,

ids Satsaneien jens canlfemamiedid ee

assbat WansESeaRSnSMastOAeeS

\



3-

in the construction of an airdrome in Minsk, tether to the Polish
station of Janow.

g. In 1937 Subject's nother vas diszissed from Ler position
and both she ani subject's fatier begen to feel the pressure of the
purges. Subject's father, allegedly by eppealing to the then President
KALISIN, succeeded in again ecquiring exit visas for them to the
USS. Subject, woo admits that he had become a “good Commmist” ty
then bad gotten “thoroughly steeped" in the Commmist philosopay,
Shected to reais behind in the USSR. An inportent consideration,
he states, vas iis desire to comlete his education vaich he vas
certain he vould not be able to do in the USA for eccnomic ressons«

bh. According to Subject, bis father never lost his American
citizenship. Svbject's mother, hovever, 4n 1936 epplied for sad
obtained Soviet citizensmspe mccoraicg tw Sihu2<*, 2
a ae coviet citizenship "by default” although be never aprlied
this in persen; he alleges that elthough he was 16 years of 96°
“2 tine, be vas “granted” Soviet citizenship by virtue of bts
T's application for her om citizensh‘v.

4. Subject remained in Moscow price to World Var II. Tn april
1940 he married

‘Bina WOISEYIVA
a bookkeeper by profession,

who wee the etep-dnaghter of the vell-knova Major SS0GOLEV of the
“soviet Proleteriat Regiment”. A son vas born to them in cune i341.
Although at this time Subject vas assigzed to the constructioa of
cerocrmes to szpport froat line troops, he succesied in pulling
strings and in arranging a “DY trip" to Moscov, ostensibly to visit
fhe Geodetic Institute. Sarcute back from Moscov to the frent lines,
Rescate train got dosed in Srest Litovsk on 22 June 194) ané os i
SMrscult be vas returned to Moscow on the sme train via Barancvichi.
fecording to Subject, he vas then assigned to the Moscow Military
District, to the Ctdel herodromoi Sluzhby, where be vas placed ia
charge of a brigade of engizeers, technicians and lsborers who vere
engaged in building dumy air sites for csnouflage purposes.

j- In August gu] Subject states that be vas permitted to return
to echool in order to receive his diplona which was granted hiz in
Ee was then assigned to the 22nd Yoyenno-Dorezhaly

a eSesaaroA saan

ect CECE a a



Decause, as a menber of the Mis, thie vas considered as equivalent
to military service. Nonetheless, in reszonse to my‘query, Subject
admitted that this vas unususi as his activities were «ta kind vhich
vere performed by old vonen particularly eince during tis period,
from October 1941 to September 1942, all able-bodied Soriet males
were drafted into the Soviet emmy. During this period Subject lived
in camyarstive ease, being assigned to Suzdal and Klin, and other
tovns, According to Subject, te wore an MD uniform Dut wore no
insignia. He adzitved that “favored treatment” was bestoved upon
him end his fenily vnea the 7D assisted him in evacuating his first
wife and son fron Moscow in August 1941 to teyond the Urals. (His
son by his first wite reportedly died on 11 October 1953 of diabetes.)

k&. In Septerber 1942, Subject received an appcintzent to the
Moscow 2nd Militery Irfantry Institute from which he graduated in Jme
19h? ent oy = © Gr Lt le she Soview
Infextry. In resporse to ny cuery, Subject acain admitted that this
appointment was highly umusual as his background did not lend itself
to this, as appointzents vere rede out of the various military
branches, and as this implied that, as a foretmer (American), he vas
fully end completel) trusted by the Soviet punitive orseas who had
cleared hin both for this train‘ng and the institute end for promotion
to officer status in the Soviet Army. 1

1, Initially be'vas sent to Alatey on the Volga, then to Orel
Wuere im was assigned to the front lines in August 19:2. He was given a
platoon of infantry troops in the 415th Infantry Divisicn of the
Sovzet Central Front. Sovever, in October 1943 he was wounded; he was
hit in the left foreheed by e German bullet. Ee was operated on in
a field bospitel ana then transferred to a Moscow hospital after he
hea recovered sufficiently. He vas reclassified after kis recovery
and found suitsble to continue in military service vita the limitation
thet Le should not serve on the front lines (goden vtoroi stepeni).

B. Because the vound feited to heal completely {be bas a very
obvious scar, with a>proximately a 1" depression, on his forehead),

he “asked” to be assigned to a warmer clirate. The Soviet authorities,
he states, cocplied end in January 194 dispatched him to Thilisi

where be vas placed in a specia: officer's camp; he ves hospitalized
again, Lad osteozyelitis complications, and ultimately discharged from
the Soviet military forces. Eovever, Subject provided several
contradictory stories as to the date of discharge which st various
times he indicated occurred in Nay 1944, then in July 1544, and even

fn Augest 194, (HOTS: This aspect of Subject's story bothered hir

as it was obvious to the undersicned that Subject had somevhere become |
confused in this aspect of his tackground. ) i

creer

ofa,

ain ety

|
|



*

n. Upon his discharge, he vas retumed to the Hoscov erea vhere
he vas placed in a rest hoc» (although Subject admitted thet there
really existed no need for this a he bot recovered already prior
to his discharge). In continuing his narration, Subject taitcated
that the rest of his story "somds very strange and unbelievable"
but then averred thet it vas true. He states that, stranze as it
appears and despite the shortage of Soviet men at the time (1944)
he could not "find" hinself a Job. Ze vent to the MVD which did
offer Ein a job in Veliki Luki on the higtvays with the ScyuDorog-

ekt ; hovever, he was not given the job by the officiats
Fespousible for this. As a result, he appealed directly to the
Minister of the HiD who “tried to intercede” in Subject's behalf.
Allegedly after he vas given a full physical exenination, he vas told
that he could not te essigned to the highvey units for reasons
whic vere not speiisd out vo Suoject.

©. Subject then “sought out" vork with the Nauchniy Sovet vith
no luck, He ultimately obteinei a job vith the Moscow Soves in the
Moscow Soviet Senicr Library (sic). in Novenber 19:4, at a salary
of G00 rubles, Subject began working in the field of "information
on mmicipal vorks--hignway construction, architecture, saxitation,
etc, Fis immediate suvervicor vas (fn) LIZS=0ZV, the bead of =
information departent of the Pydro-Zergy Project. Subject admitted,
in reply to the uniersigned's cuery, that nis vork vas “unusual”
for several reasous. First, he was paid a salary vhich wes unusually.
high end cut of lire vith his qualifications. Secondly, though
paid a salary for 4 fuli-tine job and position, be actuziiy vorked a
a part-time basis and was able to cone and go almost as he visheds
His work also incluted working on abstracts and translatiocs from
English to Russian, primarily in the field of dams, dem construction,
and hydraulics.

p- In June 1949 Subject states that be was dismissed from the
foregoing position after he vas given the explanation that the flow of
Literature from the USA, which Subject vas translating, hed decreased.
In actual fact, Subject states, he was being “purged” because he vas
aJev, Ee then found a job as a laboratory assistent in a concrete
plant where be vorked fren July 1949 to 23 February 1950. Secause
he did not like that Job, Subject states he wrote to Stalin personally
as a result of vhich, within less than 4 weeks, he vas offered 4-5
different Jobs. The positions vere offered to him by the Moscow
Comittee of the CP to vhon “Stalin hed forvaréed the letter". In
reply to ny query, Subject atmitted that he was not concerned that, ;
dy vriting to Stalin, be vould come to the attention of the Soviet
punitive organs, MVD/MGB, which vould undertake to investicate his
case. Accordingly, on 1 April 1950 Subject was given a job ds en



et

tne

6.

engineer with the Beaman District Road Department where he worked
until February 1955.

q. After be lost his job in 1949 vith the Moscow Sovzt, he steces
that his relations vith his vite vent fron bad to vorse end wltizstely
cultixated first in a separation and latter ‘n a divorce in 1950. In
the meantine, he vas already Living with

Bugenis VOLSOVA

en expolyee and a teacher of forsenic medicine of the Moscow Medical
Institute where she vas studying for ber PhD and vbere she vas

x rarer fae Pata ft

1950 or 1951. Eovever, vithin less than coe month of their rarriage,
Subject divorced ber as he fomé out that she vax a “tad person” end
because he "had felie> blindly in love" vith her. (KOTE: This aspect
of Subject's story ¢isturbed kin very muck. He vas unsure of Linselt,
wes vague on dates, details, specifics, names, etc. It vas again
obvious that Subject vas less than frank end open aboct this aspect
of bis beckgrousi, is narravica did not smd convincing to Subject
about “falling blindly in Love", etc.)
socther vores,

wing with

Bose MINKINA,

whom he married only in late 1954 vhen their son vas elready vell oo
the vay. MINKINA's parents exd faxily were very etronsly opposed t2
the marriage because the parexts held respocsicle party positions ami
because MINEIRA's brother beld a sensitive position with the Soviet
electronics and aviazioa industries. A son ves born te Subject and

MIKINA on 5 April 1555

re In ca 1954 (dates vasue) Subject entered the Institute of
Marxism-Leninism an‘ continued kis studies for three or more’ yeare.
Though be registereé for the evening sessions, he devcted 8 good
portion of his csys to study. As a resalt, Subject esain admitted
to the undersigned tist be actually ves ia s unique position of being
able to do alxost as be “vished and desired” although ostensibly be
was a full-time exployee of the Bauman District Road Department. while
a student at the Institute of Marxisr-Leninism, Subject and his wite
began sutaitting applications for a visa to visit Sudject's parents
dn the USA. In actual fact, Subject states, bis real purpose in
epplying for the vies vas to “defect” upon his arrival in the USA.
In February 1955 Subject states that be ves “fired” from his Job
with the Bauman District because of “political unreliability". Beverer,
Subject adaitted to the undersigned that the real reason for dismissal



wust have been othervise as, had be actually been diszissed for :
“political unreliability", ke would not have been able to continue
his stuiies at the Institute cf Mercten-Leninisn.

B. Because Subject had commmicated to his father, using
“hidden phrases” in their letters ts each other, about his wish to
leave the USER, Subject's father arrived in the USSR in 1957 in
order, Subject | states, “to esteblish at first hand for hizsel*”
whether Subject really visned to “cefect to the SSA". Subdject's
father rerained im the USSR for e total of 10 days. As a result
of his father's visit, Suoject ctanzed his tactics and tezan to
sitnit applications for “imigration” to the USA. As earlier, these
welts States Laas ie

229
coatinied resubmitting then several tines each year. :

t. After be left the Baman District place of exrloynent in
February 1555, Subject founé vork as a "free lance translator for
the Moscew Tor; Palata. Ze carced ca 1cO rubles yer Lonth
tronslating English lerzusse raterial relsted to the iron and steel
Plant witch was being desigzed ty the 1S52 for erecticn in India. 1
In Jaxuary 1956 Subject found vork as chief cf the trenslations
bureau o7 the Rauchno-Isslezov ley i st Menisterstra Mashino-
Stroyentya; his functions ccasistes primarily of eupervisiag the
trans of English lenmare narguels on technical eauirment.
Again, Subject ednitted that bis vork was’ “urasual" as, in actual
fact, he spent 1-2 days at work, spent the rest of his tine at home,
end devoted most of his tine end energy to the studies at the
Institute of Marxism-Leninisz. Sis salary continued et 1100 rubles
per month.

u. In August 1958 bis work case to an end. Generally he
provided a contérdictory acccust in this respect. Initially he
stated that the position had been elizinated but then chanred this
story to state that be reciget iz August 1958 as be voul? have bed
to begin devoting his full tine to the work. In any case, his
resignation generally coinc‘ded with his completion of studies at
the Institute of Varzisn-leninise. ‘thereafter, and mcil his
immigration to the USA in 1962, Subject held no full tire job.
Fonetheless, he states that be succeeded in earning no less than
about 11CO rubles per math by verking as a free lence trenslator
for the Torsovaya Palata of Hoscov. fe tumed cver to the umersigned
a sample of bis translation efforts--see the attached tock. In
response to.my query, Subject ednitted that bis vork again vas of
such e nature that he vas a free agent, cane and vent as he pleased,
‘and generally vas responsible to no one. Agperently in order to

SEGET.

i
H
;


forestall any further discuseten, jm this resard,.sutJect then

stated that "ir sou are think: 2

KGB et thie tine, then you are ext beceuse I ha? the ties to

do anything including engaging in intelltcecce activities,

Eovever, Subject then proceez<: to @eny thst be had they of at ay
» bad any relationship vith the Koo (or its predecessor

Organizations),

i spect JULY 1962 subject's wether and Pathe to Moscow,
this specifically fe= the Purpose of gettin, Ject to return t5
fhe USA. They etayed in Moseaw ene oe HG VEL%E tine the

TATete leiiers te kePiE ‘SECRSVA, to ADZEIes:
to the Suprene Sorie Ser Soviet estabiisn.
ments ir orde: TEission for exteration

Jert's wife, » SIVA, had dtea «i 1961.) ta Aucast
1982, vitle Vacationing in Soc: Subject ves sought out by the
Jocal Inturist office and epprisea ty the locel militia crtice that,
"in view of your fatherte strong srpeals”, the (SSR hed ented
Subject sa his son pemisston tc leave the tr. Upon his ret:on to
Moscow, Subject procesded to the feerivan Erbeesy uhers be vag
advis-d that he hea not tong Ewe? an extt visa by the coriate,
45 8 result, Subject explied fer tgretion te the WA tvice, once
in the eszactty of a Soviet etts using bis Soviet passport, and
the second time in the capacity of an “Americen o. 5

xpglt September 1962 the srsticetion to travel to the (5A
. wien eraMt” vas approved fo hin asa Bis son. Therecore,
i Yithout vaiting to receive approval to travel om:
i", Sa 5

1962 via lalevild. pen his TSA, Subs.
Undertcor action to have his “Awrisay Citizenship"
Seassatttally denied as be hal atmisted that he ted
Soviet sational elections. fove >

Hbo sppealed the case; he origizal decision vas the
both Sub‘ect and his son had their WS citizenshtn restores
in the sumer of 1963, the reversal was based ca Subject's clain

that be bad had no choice and Nas, sherefore, ccepalied to vote in

the USSR aational elections. :

Me eon Mis arrival in the “Ea, subject imediately epaliea i
for 8 position with the im, hovever, be vas rejected as be seq Tetate-
Jess"at the time, He then accenea’’ s Position vith Stelling, Lord.
Wood, and isa Suetendal, th st vorking oa Site-planniag,

Sis superviser, one Frank MeCovan, then recommenied Subject to the

-


en

cA
i
a2
1
ted
si
ete

On

Blauvelt ergineering firm for vhoa be vorked from January 1963
through July 1964. In 190% Subject fomd work with Farold J.
S{IDEN, 60 Zroad Street, Red Bank, Sew Jersey, as an engineer
vorking oa the planning and designing of sub-divisions, 5 2
ccaostructicn developments, etc, His immediate superviscz is the
township ervineer of Marlboro Towehip, Sew Jersey. His present
salary is $/00.00 per month.

y- In April 1963 Subject warried
Bella MINCHERG nee MILSTSIN

@ Polish Jew who hed come to the Us from Poland in 1945. Ste has
Srp cons ty her rreviocs verriace(s).  Gubfect end tis soa nov live ‘
in the Lone of his present wife.

4%. ‘(Comments_and Assessment:

a.° Subject speaks native English ant passes for a middle class
American. Bis Russian 1s likevise native.

b. According to Subject, his objective in lite row is to work
for the US Government. He states trat he has submitted Porm 57 to
a number of the US Goverment agencies (be cid not elabcratc}. in
applying for the position under ASSTFICRZ, Subject asked for $10,000.00
yer anmm vhich is bis asking price for a positica with the 05 Govermmest.

c. According to Subject, bis present position is excellent wits
great potential for going into partnership as soon as he becomes &
Licensed ezgineer. Hovever, he states that he is not inverested in

“gig

making money (despite bis request for a $10,000.00 salary) but in “Sigst-
ing Commmism" as an exployee of the 0S Covermeent.

a. Subject sdritted that he vas a firm ani strong believer of
Commmisn vhich, incicentaliy, was the reason vay be remained behind
in the USA vhen his parents returned to the ISA in 1937. fe staves
that be continued to be = firm deltever of Commis witil ery!
1058/59 when he became “disenchanted vith Commmism". Subiect
denies that he was a nenber of the Xossonol or that he tad to join the
Communist Party, this despite the fact that he became en officer of
the Soviet Army and despite the fact that he was accepted to stuiy .
et the Institute of Marxism-Lenini=. Despite his alleged “disenchant-
ent” vith Cammiom, Subject spoke in flattering terms about life
in the USSR, sbout the “democracy”, about equal opporsmiities, ebout
the excellent "educetional systen”, et cetera. Subject einitted thet

ec i nO te nen

TATE
§Exal

a weds cnt antiese



be bed led almost a “crerming existence” in the TEcR and that
peither life in tl» USSR nor the Soviet authorities mistreated him.

e. According to Subject, he vas never arrested in the Soviet

In reply to ry query, See ng ees

Fejectd the pitch. In reply to various queries wiih vere posed

to hin about the fellov-szutent (nome alleg=ily new forgotton),
Subject states that he dié render en uafavoratie report on the person.
Despite this, the particular Soviet wee wltinecely assimed ebroed

es en interpreter. Subject later beard that the Soviet vorced md
traveled /.. bowa Japan and Inaay.

g. In reply to a general query about life i= the USSR, Subject
ndicated that life in the USER has nade his icvo “es eccamplished pre-
varicator".

h. Subject vas less than flueat in relating the story of bis
Aste to the undersignec. Ge made ristekes frequently, be contra-
@icted hinself, ke eltered dates to a:camotave ovzer aspects of
Nis activities ts correspad vith whet he bed mentioned eorlter, ete.
Also, Svolect repeatedly tried to disress from relating his story
into presenting hie views of life; it was s chore to xeep kim on
substantive matters relating to his om bacte-omd,

4. Subject's brother, Eugene, is nov exzloyed es an engineer
of the Preebell Tovasiip, fev Jersey. Aiciticceliy, be bas a
private office in Focklani, Hew Jersey, called she Civil Engineer
‘Associates.

J. Subject's account of how he ecquired Soviet citizenship-—
see ebove-- is & very weak itex in S Ze vill heve
us believe that he got Soviet citizenship “ty teTeult™ as a result
of his mother's application for Scriet citizensaip for herself.

Fe Einself admitted to the udersigned that this ‘s ilicgical as

Bis brother, Sugene, “tose status vas no different from Subject's,
ever acquired Soviet citizenship “by default” thouga Subject did
allegedly without my sction whatever on bis ow ;ert. Moreover,
Bubsect ednitted that be was legally of ese (12) by this tine and

no longer a dependent as a result of vhich be would hare had to spply
for a Soviet passport and for Soviet citizenship cf his ovn free
volition rather then through his mother. :

—_——


K. Subject is svare that the story of his “immigration® to
the USA is eiso weak. fe tried to explain this avay by stating that”
be "got cut by mistake”, thet he vas permitted to go “tn bide the
Soviet shee exxromding the Cuban crisis", that "someone had
committed cx error”, etc. He admitted thst there exists no other
explanation es to vhy the Soviet goverment vould have peraitted
Bim to leave the U552 as, in the eyes of the Soviet gcverment, be
wes a full fletze? ant responsible Soviet citizen vho had no
genuine or legitinate clain to Americen citizenship. 4s a result,
Subject is tiusuaily seneitive to this topic.

5. COMLISIC:
8. In the opinion of the undersigned, Scbject abould no} be

consideres for either AESCHZZN or AZEXPLOR2 despite tke fact both
bis 2nglish and Russian ere native.

‘b. On the basis of the interviev, the undersigned feels that,
Subject is lees then frenk and that be is prevaricating. Moreover,

there exist imurerable iters in Subject's tale which are inticative
both that he vorked as e recruited egent of the KGB (and its
predecesscr orzanizations) in the tit he left the 18m only

‘through end vith the intersession of the £G3.

€. It sboal4 be uxterscom! that because of the mique urd sensitive
cover used by the undersigned, no attempt vas made to resolve the rerfoms
contradictions, to chaltense Sub{ect on any of his statenents, or to
Pursze certain points of their logical conclusion. The foregoing vas
Obtetsed in the fcr of en interview and no real attempt could be nade,
Given the cover, to delve nore deeply into the suspicious aspects of
Subject's backgzcund.

~Chhet, SR/O/AC

SE

FoRnisan Seana

cere tthnanacnein


Trig Save (Pil

PERSONAL HISTOR STATEMENT =| cuts 5, 1964)
i 5, 1964

CS wer SE Tom SPACE

INSTRUCTIONS

ZL. Answer a!l qaestioas completely or check appropriate box. HM question is nut applicable write “NA*. rite “U2
kowe® cc iy of seu do not know the answer and it cannot be obtained from personal records. Use blank space at

e2d of foen fze exura details on any queszce for stich you have insaificient space.
2. Type, print ov urize carefully: illegible or =acomptete forms will cot receive recsideration.
3. Consider yous answers carefuliy. Your s:zaatzre at the end of this form will cerufy to their correctness. Casefzt
conpiction cf all apelicable questions wi permit review of your qualifications to the best advantage.

GENERAL PERSONAL A‘'D PHYSICAL DATA
Tage

ESbata Ce THES TF CEL SM OF RRO TYPE COWBLEDION, Te TyPE SoS

blue brown { light lheavy

TT ARER BAST RE ENE POWEIEAL FEATIRES =o
: dene

Tan Bane. Saas aad Coma) BEE WAWERT ©
DO Coeeret Ano Powe 82.

Long Srench, New Jersey 1260 Jersnall Sourt, bo:
| New Jersey. [el1s2)1-222-2592

Ta SomaEeT © TiS, Ceevce Doane WH BERT. 1 REGAL RESIDENCE Fare: Fentory or Come)
231-222- | Lz2-0702 | New versey

Te wanes TER NAMES POU WAVE WEED
Bone | None
TIIOERE ATE ERE GST ANCES ectolend Uiagis  Femey GREE One VOU WAVE EVES [SED THESE BABES.
TA
BOW CEE EMEOE GIVE PARTICULRRE (Ona ans OF hu Aca

mA

SECTEON tr POSITION DATA
TEE Gest YOu ARE APPLYING

Eo eeaSace soe Lseese anwuat Envesnce miaeyvopene TE AW ABLE Foo eur
TE yaoi Gio be csanasend hae art pocame oo skewer |} DATE AVAMABLE

Sear 310,09) ennvatty | 2 weens af
@ WAS CATE YOUN SILLINGNETS TO TRAVEL

Teseasentey
TLLNGNESS TO ACCEPT ASHGNWERT IW THE FCQLOWING LOCATIONS C
Locations Gmev Speedy:

arenter j jormee:

qeethne cratneeran
Eo ieDeC ATE Om AT HE IEaVATIONS YOU SOULE PLACE Om ASSIGNUERTS GUTSIOE THE OABMINGT

Possibility of schooling for children

one
(os ne pono Corton.

i
i

ssn a a



SECtiCn 1a CITIZENSHIP

EPLRCE OF Bia Yn (Cap. bata, Comite

Dec.4,1517 :Szocxlyn, sew Lor:
@erdtasne ACoUPED BY

ware id Se | [Otmem Cpwcttyy: L

7. eaceT GIvInG WaT oWALIEAT-On CEATIPICATE GOED AT (erty, Beata, Cow

HA { ary
VE VOU AELD PaEWIONS HAT/ONALATW_]19. 1 VES, GIVE WAWE GF COUNTRY

free Kine i MA
TOSISE BIR TICUCERT CONCERNING PREVIOUS MATION WEE WES TLV DT Stay th
Russian governnent considered =e .as a Russian citizen, eve: though I
had never sanded in an eppiceation for Soviet citizenship. Dze to this,
and because I was in a rush to leave the country, et-ived amor on 2
Soviet foreign passport. In the U. S. Exbassy in Kzscow i filled in si-
sultacesusly tw> applications for entry into the U. S. Aw as an
dnrigriat ané the other as an Acerican citizen I received a Nongquote
F-2(1) vise dated Stonter 10, 1952. after arrival Board of Appeals
of the Dept. of State reinstated =y native-born citizenship.

To waTaaaLitatiOn CEBTIMICATE WO.

THEE waaTICUL ARS

12 HAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANCE
Peksent cutizentue

x

nave PaETENT STATUS OF VOUN BPPLICATION Pam! Pacem Bted™

iA

TOW VOU HATE EPPLED FOROS, CTT ENEnI

STHESTee Te uae COTE

Te Ss Ss Re

| 18 ave vise issuee

Sept. 19, 1952
,e EDUCATION e
: TTEREER GHD MIENEST LEVEL OF EOUCATION ATTAINED.
Tress ren wien 2eno00 CRADUATE | Lowen reo veacs oF COLLEGE nO DECREE
Tnrew scuoot easpveve Tp eacrevows oeente
ee Teectae su CoGUERCIAU FTCOEL GUGDURTE | _fenapunve sTuby ceabwe Fo menan oeenee :
FeO YEARS COWRESE CO LESS Lo wasren! } toocros-s sacace 2
EELeabiTany scroow
TREE GF ELEMENTARY SEROOT i seats (i Sia Como i
Pe 8.3? i Bronx, ta 7%.
weaves aTrtkbes Fame Teetouare
122 hrs aries
3. IGH SCHOOL
TRESS wee TESST Ty ROSREH Cay Sara Sona
Xo. 327 : |

ates aT TESsta a
TSN Fo 1535 a :
T. Mame OF wiGm SERDOL TA SODSESS (Cary, Stare, Commtr)

TOATES ATTERSED Pommens FO) oy a eeapuaTe

encace | cars
meee | RECO

deagecetene, ©



REEM NOTED IM ITEM e vuicn REOUIRI MISSION OF A WAITTEM THESES, 16; ma
‘ MOTED NITEM A ¥micn REQUIRED suBMISSION OF ITTEM THESES, NOICATE THE TITLE

6 TRADE, COMMERCIAL AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS : 1

i

WAME A> ADORESS OF SCHOOL

UBY OR SPECIMLITATION

L FROM

Bvening University
Narxisa-Leninisa

olitical Sciexces

[ 1952

Foscttw, U. 5. S. Re

|

TP MALITARY TRADING (FULL Tint DUTY IN SPECLALIZED SCHOOLS SUCH AS ORDMANCE, INTELLIGENCE, COMMUNICATIONS, ETC)

|

MAME AND ADORESS OF SCHOOL

YOD¥ OR SPECIALIZATION

md scs¢cw infantry
School

Tnfantry officer

TSCOW, Se Se ce

!
|

Hes

OTHER EOUCATIONAL TRAINING NOT INDICATED ABOVE.

MA

FOREIGN LANGUAGE ABILITIES.

‘COMPETENCE - In ORDER LISTED
Were, SSowek

wow Acquired

Speak by Biecing a chock OF)

+ T T
FLUENT
‘Sur
opviourny
Potion

[resesncn “

Jaccauate|aceouare| cnoreo

the azproonate bosfesk.

alas

vane |
lcounray]

er

Lgrsee ia ohh

iwence

eno. conractlacaens

x

TF vou nave Cnecneo

NA

SAGEDEWE STUDY” UNDER SHOW ACQUINED™. INDICATE LENGTH AND INTENSIVERESS OF STUOT.

YOU NAVE WOICATED FLUENCY Fi
Puane Yous COMPETENCE THEMEN.

Piece, EMOINE

TEED Lang ua Se eOeK wvOUyIN® VOCA

(Ons, MILITARY.

ledge in the field of inforzation (technical) estefan? cS, iE on the
basis of twenty years of exper‘ence in iiussia.

RES AND TERMINOLOGY Hie THE Siem

I have deep know-

jowere wey owe

ue =e

TENS OtSE, SOUTH VOU BE SLUNG TO USE THit AUILITY m ENT PONTION FOS OWEN

matte hed tees =



. .
pict te enor 5 etc.
t es Be
j erisis ant
gtadaate ¢ izg di It
aeven years of rezest te
f 0 Povunrec stares ee
H
bo [section vit 7
: : i
an ae:
‘i Honcamels Cond Pusey £54 galoulators 7
i
2 © [section var ‘SPECIAL GUALIFICATIONS e
: Wap toh nebeed oils PENTA STEN TET GRE beri 06 cm mk st BTV GEL PARTIES TEE: TOIEATE TEP PRETICIERST :
7 Guess - average 76: tency. .
2 awisuing - ror plessore :
a oat z vere :
in tie Las.s of my twenty years of exserience i
I could masage, edit ard translate inf-rcation in tue field of Ca and 2,
: jpublisied in itussian, or vice versa.
a - 7
ay ‘
a ‘youio UsIWESS EQUIPMENT Ge MACeNED Bre aye Lint €S in VEi 9, SECTION wn, CONT Ay SPECIAL
3 santp rou petiak aay Toetrtm tqutuen ices reaation OF BRORTEAYE RADIO ton ita
H ENDED Speed, Sentane end teveitmgssOrP3et PRESS, Tu meSLieSTuric ano Pmoressiomar OGVICED
; :

CaNTINeeD TO PAGES

eas tscla om

tae abe gtr



FOTION Vill CONTINCED FM PAGE 4

Ge CESTIrsED wi uae oF ANT
Cea: wegican Feeom ian ete

Ga BROT EeTEw SUER BE PLOT
ioves Zino

EAP NOU HAVE ANSOFOE WOE TO BESVE, INDIZATE KIND OF LICEWSE AND STATE HILING LICENSE (Provrae License Regieiy
Manber, dknomns

*
‘CViRST LICENSE OW CERTIFICATE (Fam al Tonced TERTEST LICENEE OR CEATIFIEATE (Vous ot Tova
KA NA
TPRY any signie ea wy SuRLGES wa TEm ALE OF wmiem ¥Ou ARE THE RUTOGA [Ba SOF submit top TREEATEY
Naw bred, FEASLEted’ Maree st" Che FS ts ier The SOLS TION SUC T
by Foreign Languages Publishing House in 1953 (technical).

DTNDIEATE ANY DEVICES WHICH VOU RAVE INVENTED AnD STATE @HETAER OM HOF TREY ARE PATENTED.

TA

TE-LIST PUOLIE SPEAKING AND PUBLIC RELATIONS EXPERIENCE:

ta

Vi Ligt ANy PROFESSONAL. ACADEME O8 HONGMARY ASS0CIM TIONS OF SOCIETIES Im BUEN TOU ARE NOW OR BERE FORMERLY
STMEMBER. LST ACADEMIC HONORS TOU MAVE RECEIVED.

None

SECTION IX EmPLOYHENT HISTORY

NOTE: (LIST LAST POTION FIRST) Indicate Chronolofical Reatary of empiorment for fest 15 yeare, Account for all periods
including casual ecxploymest and af! periods of wmerolovecat. Greeadarese ana stato what you did dering pericdvol
iomployment. List all crrilian exploy=nt By  feretén Goverment, red! in Completing item 9, "De=
scription of Daties* cansicer your erper
URS LURNE SpE ont Tp Fe gS
January {553° To"presant tide

EROORESS Re, Sask Chin Tam Come ag yay
h

son Aves, IZC

xno OF Bye “So nanELOF SPE AVG
Consul fing “engineers | Francis suerst
© VTE oF 208 Ta SALARY OR EARNINGS + cuss onapent Federal Service)

ce 2 JoewsOate!

¥. Oesenip tow OF DuTES

final estinates.

Te, READGNE FOR CEAWING

fous vis oie. SD

Improving possibilities of further advancezent . 4
Q
y eecestsses :
A +8. ’



ERD OF SusmesD

{Site plaming Fart Gowan __
«Tite er 108 June Ch tT ya aa OA Cann wag |t Ot oes @aaOe a Fodemel Saretea)
Te Tren WOOK

PEPCK ET Sn BF EUTEF

Grading, site planning for hign schools

To -aEisoea OW LEAVING

Inprcving possibilities of further advancenent

TINCLUTIVE GATES (From and To By Mo. and ¥0) That FF EMPLOVING Flam OW AGENCY

| 1222 ta Sept., 1952 U.S.S.- Chaber of Commerce

T-RODRESS o,, Foe, Cup, Sale, Coun
SCOW, UeS.Seite

TNS GF SoamERE
Foreign tumde
[evince er scs FreenL:

a €cAis, GAGE (ll Federal Service)

i id r 5 :
lp pescarnow or bores REDOItS Lor In erratic igressés, trade publice-
tions, manuals, daz projects, road-buti 2 cor ction cachinery

5 w2is, articles on building :aterials, |

i agasans #8 LEAVING REDoEP ation

| TINCLUIVE OATES Proven To By slo ond WV) TE RARE CF ERPLSTNG FRM OR ATER ‘
1 41956 to ept., 1962 Foreizn Trade Publishi-z Eo: i

| F-ADORETS (40. Stet, Hoscow, Us Se Se R z

' ind oF euaNESS Foreign trade Te sane or surcavieos iin, Kedvedyes

: + —Sray on Camaines 8s Cad GA DET Peter Bevice)

4 wine or 308 Pree-ia Jat :
i eee sarieee Tance translator se ee month

~sestasten or cuties T¥ade publications, >oad-buildiag and construction
machinery manuals. (Russian to English)

Te REASERS FOR LEAVING

Repatriation

Fe Tee TS a 1
TAGES a Seats Clips Baie, Commi
Frunze Saban: 2 W
§ bacamoer ousnEss ac @seareh and > ~*™e or sure
foreign tnade Hi i 1
Stiteecr woe

Sexior enginee>

RECTION IN CO

onan

Nufarterartiedeyen eaten

\



af

SECTION IX CONTINUED ROW PASE 6

five traasiators. Eead of tra siators Lureau. Hanage=ent
xe) “translating sake Russian to English of construction and

aauals, trade ee

Wawe OF Eve

F aE
iz ae , ~ [eawaan Boro Road Repair Dept.

Te peoyey te

mage
Cpartazove Hl. 9, Koseow, Us Se Se

TELS. CRATE MH Federal

Fe SALARY 4 EAENINGS
a)

any Gf Ousiness a wane OF 507
Road ‘& Sewer zainterance Lr. Artanonov

oTLE OF 208
Senior engineer in wa Dae

TorcHPTONSF OUTIES Syeineering supervision 3f repair SOUS, surveying,
io2st gning of small streets and sewers, planing, contect with factories
or paving ng jobs, estixates.

TeeeWoW FoR EN =? Reduction of forces

TE-WAWE GT EVPLOVING FIRW OR AGENCY.

FTSSR ETE Wo Birwst C27.

naTsaw 5 Eighway, nouse No. unknown, Koscow, Ue Se Se Re
Tensor cme Panusactre oF 7 waned OF EURENV GOS
concrete Do_nct rezenser
a TTie oF 308 LAbOF ato Wr gacaer Ge Eanninss © GLASS, ORADE Ol Posed
eemgnen |
‘ besemTion oF OWTIES LAbIPatCry testing of concrete and concrete componeats.

E WEATONS FOR LEAVING Reduction of forces

Gaign FEAVICE WITH TnE FEDESAL GOVERNMENT, iS NOTED ABOVE. TMOCATE 156
© iF CRBS SSUES Unt Thole FOPAKS US: OVI SERVICE RETICEWENT. (F ESOWR,

TRED 70 RESIGN FROM ANY POSITION. Dre

sewer ies Bee

GMAT E VOU EVER BEEN DISCHARGED OF Al
NAVE TOU LEFT A POSITION UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH YOU DESIRE TOE:
If YOUR ANSWER TO E/THER OR BOTH QUESTIONS IS "YES", IVE DETAILS

mat

a
3
:
1



g

SECTION X

WILITARY SERVICE
T CURRENT DRAFT $1
ves 2 Senestie Ciasuee 3 SELESTIVE SEMVICE WO
xe UN Ta
SOLOCAL DRAFT BOARD WD. CR DESIGNATION AND ADGRESS |
i

Taae vou

Forte 2eGam. ca mic.
Eee. ce (Speers

i i UEER As:
wave weaves= i 7 ; : i T i 1951-183

Roe seaving =

cwece tar as | i
appeoppiare , *5EY | AVY

Wanme.) W@ | COAST (MERCHANT MAT:ONAL:AIR NATL
Comes CE | GuaeD | MARINE + GUARD | GUARD

wee HNN ois ION do Sepben daw? SEL
SEES ea ARE OE, PSR a bE? GE?

twa ttanas

7. Bate SEPARATED FROw EXTENDED AC varie 4. TOTAL LENGTH 26 EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY IM US. (OED
FEGCES (Peet end current earvice)

tenes : i NA

is. Oave entenes CLORENT SERVICE 6: TOTAL LENGTH OF ACTIVE OUTY IN FOREIGN MILITARY CO”
erie Derr i

a 2 Gigieation
MA i years
cane secre SEELICE, SERIAL ON PILE HUMBER 1 now sree rote
FTEamane mpiriay Sceueanrpeay |, PAST SEMVICE TCURRERT SERVICE
POC ee Scent and tne "OT OS H a
caere vote Lt. asa na
we Bee a ccgupamons, | Reer awceRiguwey reget =
ence suerants H suot. ik
Dee SESELES EGS SE Eola Ee fe peat or canvas: earvice) .
ter grecuarion was sent to cignwey Eatallion wntil Sest., 142. Thea
direste] to iilitary onfantry School. Active service until wounded in
wcte, 1943. Then in hospitals and reserve a:til Seat., 194+.

TE EwECK 0 TYPE OF SEPASATION ROM ACTIVE DUTY

TaenBaseid SAT manee Bermewes tun Seneice TL omnie WARDSHIPS
SEREENE TO WTETNE DRY BET @EWENT FOR COUeAT BISON || OFWER:
went 750 ACE aevetwent Fon parscan cuasmity |
Ta COEER (a) COMPONENT IN IGN You SERED
TOT Bereaved Oe Neen A al 1 otnda tnetetng
Tr MGITART RESERVE, NATIONAL GUARD AND ROTC STATUS 77

TWed Tame you ase AWEBER DF TNE [YES 2 ASE YOU NOW A MEMBER OF
Gives 12 spe roy sous RvRER CS Te LACS __™ Sng nore

=o zaa> [ne H

ie Vou WAVE ANSWERED “TES" TO ;TEIG 1,2 OR 3 ABOVE, CHECK COMPONENT MEMBERSHIP BELOW

Fouanct [navi acre | INDICATE Rove CATEGORY Rum
oer

750 ¥o0 ae,
Sesenve sre

omausuaea 60)
WATLLGUAND [ARMY ROTE [aim Foace nord

© ZATE OF APPOINTMENT IW CURRENT ia EREISATION OATE OF CURRENT RESERVE OFLNrE

oasen i Gameday weseeve Caeser] _atav atseave’—stavoaviacrved__[etandavrinecowoyl _TReTneS

fp Pamsany WILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (te ar Deeg {16 GECONDARY Ui, ITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY Citas ex Dew}
ssteey AND TITLE, Egoter) AND TITLE

TUBREF OESCRIPT On OF MALITARY DESERVE DUTIES

Ta WF You WAVE ANSVERED "VES" TO ITEM TZ, GIVE UNIT Om AGENCY
‘ub noORESS .

<2 i

wea iss ie yOu nave AnSeESEO "VES" TOITEM TE GIVE UNIT OR AGENCY
ithe ud ADDMESS

ABN SERVICE, YEARS | MONTHS:
ses mL US i

Te. onEAE Awe YOUR SERVICE RECORDS KEPT?

. ‘| pai) Clie? Bee ee

|



‘
Section 11
» Nina Shekcozoleyva Meisejeva
- Hone
5. Apr. 12, 1940 6. Noscow, USSR
+ 12 Sclsraya Pionerseya, Mesecw, USSR
8. Unknown 9 SA 10. TA
12. 13. tiosecw,: USSR Th. USSR :
1% to 25 - NA eet
. Eugene Volsova
» Kone
5. 1950 6. Moscow, USSR
. Dersitories cf Kedical College
j Unknown 9. MB 10. KA ;
Zit, Unknown !
ies 192% 13. Hzscow, USSR tk. USER
Vi to 25 = mA ’
3. Rtse Hirkina 4cron :
§. Hone
Se 195k 6. Mosecw, USSR
@- Station Zaininstaya, Pogranichraya Ul. 9, icSeow Province, “S32
~ Deceased 9. 122. 2b, 4951 10, Si0'd cl-t in brain
11. 29 Pyatnitszaya Ul., Miscow, 7
12. 1924 13.0 1k, USSR
, Ve to 25 = Ra
: b> Arey ania
i ‘
nae ; :
i : i
i i
i H H

 ciesteaiieiiad



me OF"

THARGIAL STATO!

SECTION Xt
4 ane vou ENTIRELY
FoF vOUR auseee Sw

ewOENT oe vzue Senne eT
YQ tre BELGE STATE GzUSTE! OF OTHER H

FB hennes TWSTTUTIONS WITH @mICH YOU MAVE ACCOUNTS.

wae oF Te ESE Ess (Coty, Stare. Coursey)

Long branch, New Jersey

Honmouth County havional bank

{
DFG. BANKAUPTCY, mives a
Tat. Srv PAATICULAAS, NELUSING COURT AnD DATEISI

TE mavE VOU EVER SEEN IN, OR PE:
SW voua AWSwER IS "VES" TOT

G dire Fake CRECIT REFERENCES IM THE UNITED STATES

iit awe T ADDRESS (No, Street, CHP, State?
Zugene Anzon 182 Community Drive, West Long Branct,
Hm lect aod 43 ae Ww, 46 St., Bayonne, Ne J.
Abrahen =, Weldnan |235 Albert Pl., Blberon, N. Je

Tice vou RECEIVE aw AnMUITY FezW THE UNITED STATES OR OISTAICT GF COLUMBIA GOVERMMENT UNDER ANY RETIREMENT
BET, PENSION, 22 COMPENSA! AEY CA NAVAL SERVICE? YES Mo

TeEa TE TWEE" TO THE ABCTE CUESTICN. GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS

Caer

TEREST We D2 OFFICIAL CONNECTIONS MITH HON-U.S CORPORATIONS OF BUSINESSES: OF
DLs NESSES maving SUBSTANTIAL FOREIGN INTERESTST

B20 VOU HAVE anv SINANCiAl
ER ertn U.S CORPSRATIONS

Cives Thue Af mewes VEST tama

fa an exparete sheets

Bection KA WARITAL STATUS :

TGRETEMT STATUS Gihaie: Marwea Srcored Sesame buerced. o Anmited) SEC. Har- ied
TIENE TE, VOSS ey Sgay AT aS SRSRTBAN MEY free, insoaoatabil-ty
Gete12, 195%, Hose:w, UCSR, Bugenie Yolsova, divorce, no children

TIFE. HUSRAND If you have teen comued sure than once - including annulments 5 axe @ separa ‘sheet for former wife oF
OF FIANCE: husband grag data required below for sll previgus marriages: I camage ‘contemplated. fill in appropriate
information for fuaace. _

i TRE Frat on a tia
fy Bella ililstein Aaron

i Baave aay rede wants EVER GED TIOWATE Gre €CA*ST ANCES finchading fnath of rm) ONES

i Bella iincberg Or mee DANscs nunorttyi. USE ExT#A SPACE PROWOED ON

Or tris FOR’ TO RECORD Tri5 H4FORMATION,

SEAT BF OPER SET TS SE ATE GF WES AIACE ity, Siaie, Cammtrry

‘april. > 1963 } Long Branch,

Fr mig TOR HEMT #DEGEGE BEFORE Stare, Commie)

260 iarsnall Court, Long Sranch, ew sersey

Te. cite oF BtaTe 78, RUSE OF DEATH :

scene
Tee) ime i ma mass TA :
325°CSrshall Court, Long Eranch,

Tg uamENT REPRESS WOrve anl odawea Hiecgeeee
Fir Teitp, Sato, Coxmerrd
| Zozashuv-. ‘az, Poland
SECTION XII CONTINUED TO PAGE 10
Gare v9:

Je

aia ge as sewer CH

Ta. Date OF Bint

1927



-10-

dsuly 15, 149

iy GoaNSuTsSE . F EATE OF EnTav

1S PLAGE OF Ente

ew

Displece? verson
Housewife

¥6, Fonwen CVZEsS= PH) Loanerteeel?

WBaTE,

46, 1955
pon reper eet
Wiiibresneeiant

$d atRbaanie S wnene

ores

HA

80. EMPLOYER'S Ca @EigEGS ADORED (Ho Sees. Cu. Sinie, Corry?

PE DATES OF WiLITARY 6A (CE (Fron aod Sy Mo. and Wr

a.

seu Ce gEaVICE
A

COUNTRY with @niCH WiLIDARY SERVICE AFFILIATED

SECTION Xilt

fas. CETAILS OF OTHER GCVERNMENT SERVICE, UBER FC;

CHILOREN AND OTHER DEPENOERTS:

PL DROME THEOL EenS mr ORUATION Foe ALL en

OER AND CEPESSENTS

Tiewswe [GATE ana peace ov aerm | ev

Sella ‘“anron | wie
Nickael Aaron son
Joe Minederz son
Steven Mincberg son

Eri One Gvend) vas. UF AGE #MO
SECFRUP DSR Tins.

1 PULL WANE (LaetPorettbadle

Philip (Jessa) Amron

SECTION XIV FATHER (Give same intscration, for Stertather and or Guoriian one separa theety

2. OnTE OF DeaYm [6 CAUSE OF DEATH

‘3. STATE OTMER NawES WE HAS USED

THOICATE CIRCUS TANCES “Inching Tang® of Hime) UNGER WHICW FE HAT

Seo Even usto THese mawes. Iv LeGat cnawee, cree PanTicuLams (Where
(Sel oy anot sunonttry CSE EXTRA SPAGE PHOVIDED Ou PHGE 18 OF TD
Pup sya Toms To aecamo Tuts mar emuarions

viiani Seach, -la.

JA eunnnt fo0neit- Gra iw otinsc a Raeendite, aver Gur Sm Somer
1412 ccean Drive, Apt. 11,

7 OaTe oF 8:

4930

wey or

Gouel

ae

© eine
Us

ROSY QUTSOE US GATE OF ENTRY Fuace OF Ent
T338 Ei Tew York
. Wa. PoRvER CITWTENSPUD [Emowefionly 11h. DAVE UE CiyaEname | 18: @nERE ACOWSED (Eliy, Hales Comay
aussia acowaeo UAKNOWN Uncnown
i Sfisreceusaron Ve. PRESENT EUELOVER (Give lant explorer, H Fates ta deci
Retired Self-enployed

eurcoye:

a
‘DUIREss AGONESS OW FaTwEa'y BUSINESS AODMESS IF TELP-EPLOTED

Eoliday iil1s, Nolans Drive, Lace iiosatcong, Ne J.

TeDATES OF win TaR¥ TEAWICE (Fromand Tad 19. BRANCH OF SERVICE

7, CounTay

i, DRTAWS OF OTHER GOVERNUENT SERVICE, US. OW FOREIGN ONG:



SECTION x¥ MOTHER
0 TULL wane laa Faatwatiey as

£203 ERATST

RICE

SStnE an enc@rae uzeehy

pS PANE OF Bkate Ta ence ar gente
t a

2 ena) SES Orem Ine WAT

© PaericuLaas (oer
‘0 om Pace 18 OF Tas

CURRENT AOSeEs5- IVE LAST ADORESS, IF Gece.

1412 Ocazn Drive dot. 41, view
a

7. OTE OF 0. PLACE GF wratn Grae
Shi

PR Ora
inst Province Russie | Stateless
iD PLACE OF ESRF

Unknivm
FORMER Crrizewiaibigr Leomerticasy i 0 Egig REMI ia emese ‘AT SUINED fay, Sea, Comapy
Ascpero

Ueznown

‘Occur aToN ['® PReteny terccreen
Housewife } ey

SMP OVEN'S O-SiREGS ADDRESS OF COTTER SARE SOORETS 17 SEU EXPLETES

OATES OF MeL IVanY SERVICE RESIS Tap Pro serrrerg
ay ' x
HA ta

TAILS OF Orman covenMNeRY SERVICE, US Ga vOBEIN

SECTION XVI
Troms :  tcaroeee Ta. era tatie (Comp
VeRO ss brother lifivenactey

[SS URRENT AD 3888S Oho, Seeen Cin Foe State, Comayy
122 Comxunity Drive, West tong Erangy

sears



‘Gate or SeatH a 36 OF DEAT

~ ~ dR ___Hezzt 2s0.
Win hated Tenjhod toa Cet EE a
1 Powe fomecona Yad meomuntio,

—

Eusaent On LAST 0a0EH Tha Semen Cups Siete, Commie)
: Square 12, Iouashuv-.2z, Polasd

7. Ee¥e or sie" CAHOWN © PLACE OF tiara Cup, States Comrory Te eivigenaane
Stoosstorecocx Tomashuve!i2z., Polen? | Polish

WW S2en Cursce vb. Gave er extay TT PLACE OF Entay

| PR eecneniemen Ramareal Tih Saye gg ainteas SnERE BCOURED (Cit, Ram COROT :
7 pester: :
A i KA A
We eteueation [iss PESERY SOELO TER (Gree laed enilarer, H PoGarmLaw ve ovcenued w cneaployed)

Sk st -revecnor Stk Sel f-enstozet

MOTHER-IN-LAW

SECTION XVII

Fece Naue Lait Pureeteaalay 2 Living DATE OF DEATH | «. CAUSE OF BEATA : :
sv aetesy ves — ioe oye.

ILSTSD IDL 2%i**___Unnoum zea:

STATE GtnEe saues int i? GES Tincicate cimcuwstaazes (inchoteg lergih of tina) weea evicn Sre WA

1 EVES USEO THESE Nawes. uF Legat C=aNZE, CINE PASTICULARS “dhew
None werd by what authority). 152 EXTRE SPACE PROVISED ON PAZE 16 OF THIS

Foes to mtcono test iroauation:
| Paveusseur ow cast amowess a sowen Cin tue Coens
H Unknown _. : af friar ‘
(ts Pudcd Gh Bata ww heey Comey parser
ala ! crane
i POL rey Polish
a | Ba
© Foawta cities Kencreay TEENSrIP Va, waeme AEGUINED [City Balm COR

sa

Pine layers Wf Wotener

13. Occupation

SECTION XIX RELATIVES BY BLOOD, wanaIAGE OR ADOPTION WHO EMTHER TI) LIVE ASEOaD,
(2) ARE NOT U.S. CITIZ - «5 OR (3) MORK FOR A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT

| Samat Vitesse

[SRESSETE SE SCL TeV ow wmitn RELATIVE BES

?| Bobruisk, USSR 7 Government
TEENIE Tea TFRES Eyes Fa aay US tO TIS are a SET
USER once every 2-3 years Sentender, 1952
! 3 Z 2 3.

ERECATIONSSIP

= TEACH Ba ESLRTAY Ww waiin PeLTTIWE RES
|
H

3. EMPLOYED BY

T" DATE OF LAST CONTACT

rer

© cirizensrie Canan ¥. FRE QUENCY OF CONTACT

TULL AWE (LosrnF mat Wnariny

© AEDAESS OF TOL NT AY fu wnicm TELATIVE

rrry

F peeguence oF CoAT ACT ® DATE or wast COmPacT

a CITHEEN Se (omen

TRUCE NAwE Dated auscebeiey

‘© aBoREas on count A)

F. FaeGutecy af CONTACT

t

iwi : Sere

!
ry
if



Seti de: MA AMO a

[SPECIAL mewaaws if amy. COmCESeinG AEWATEGES OOTES le SECTION Riz ABIVE

a RELATIVES BY BLOO0; MARRIAGE OR ADCPTION WHO ARE BN THE KILITARY O8 CIVIL
SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES
17 what Laee Panoaeaa) a er
:
"2 REDRESS Gites Sawer Cony, Seana, Commery if TIPE tad LOCATION OF SERATE MT omy
W RANE (Laer Feidiay cating Galt pea
H s
ars AD ORESS (Ne, Swen. Ciry. Stace, Cammarr) Ah TYPE aa LOCATION OF SERVICE GI kroery,
1 WANE Tae F ast aaalay RENTER iE
ji
i pt
7 Hosen ay tee Co, See CT TE FWPE ARS LOCRTIOm 3 SEOCE TH Emam

[SECTION Xxt
ress

BELATIVES. IN TRE US. wnt euce tou INTIWATEW?

E Ceaaactes GEC Es EncEs.

Besmmess ADTEESS 7 IDEMCE aceezss
(Bie. Seicet, City meet Svar 1 ewes Serear Cav ave Stacey

ath Sey Fee Eyes;
Eelvecere, c2iif.
20s nest ayes;

Eronx 63, >

newe
(mas Free sccte}

ls. Cy Arnold |

Lavrence Bin: :

wOlZ0il, Arsre (BheBVETT Sr gineesieg Co. Sac3 Toes Sieg
179 Hadiscn Aves, UEC Richzong Hilts 13.
Teazer, SSItca - Pert TOME Zid Lentz Ave,
( Long Braceh, 3. J.

Staieisan, iaurence wo Set Srmcwey {3 vara Ave.,
Long Ezanca, Ne. J. Eiteron, Ne <-
SD aRTe vou SOCIALLY - NOT RELATIVES SuPEMrrscas Cm EWPLOVEST

2LIST erve PERSONS iw THE US.

awe

{ SUDNESS ADCRESS. A SESIDENCE aDcsess
(he. Servet. Cuty aot Sones | txe. Sees, Cv amet Senta

TST srcesvay aoT lezcz ren,

Len

tontowm, JX. Erarchy + Je
i vert Sain g CO. S35 THOte z Place
172 Hadison Aves, Hic Flushi-g, Fe Z.

T_UST THREE NEKGHGORS AT VOUS BCST SEC ERT acmuat RESIDENCE 1m TuE US.

BUDNESS AczeEsS j] westpence apcarss
tee Fowet Cory nd Steet te. Street Cos ond Sisco)
cEt ronsouth tarsnal. Tost:

Lens Branch, 3. Je
aarred 157 Breer sty eral
Red Sank, ihe 3. ig Srarch.

an paLE Tost

Unknown 22ESh

iLong Eranch Zeng Sie re Fe
} a 23 arylanc She. y
i Unknow West Lenz Erexch, ne de
‘274 Lencx Avé.,
Urinna Long Eranch, X. J.
pees eHiit EAT Doi Hoey Aves,



SECTION Xx

CLUBS, SOCIETIES. AnO OTHER ORGANIZATIONS

NOTE: List neces and estressee of oil cloce. eccuetuen prtetsniosl socreuas. employes graye of organszatiuns of any asccd
lactase memBereben 1 on seipent of, any orgenaatice having beedgurcars of bronch # fzeign country) 19 what 300
bela w have berages

Apcerss Dares of wempeonse
maweaun coarten toerter, Semel, Car tite, Counter)

SECTION xxi RESIDENCES FOR THE PAST 15 YEARS

ADDRESS - LAST RESIDENCE First
(Sumtne. ree, Ctr, State, Coeerr)

lapril, 1963
f

Rat

‘Sent

spots,

pa | Apres

12 Eolshaye Pionerszeyza le, Hoscow, oe L



e roy n2e 5A ray vou EvED SEEM A MEMBER OF:

Be ebitieas oe Etdacecan
Eee be Tne oo IPED STATES BY

n SERS €Y FORCE GR VIOLENCE TO DEMY PERSONS.

we COST BAY

EVP WOU RAVE ARSSERED “VES” ~O TE ABOvE GUESTIOM EEPLAIN

Tres TESS TE wnat ERTERT?
Xie

Ven CF SEE wat EXTENT?

(OER OF. Ga TLEPOATES GF aad ANY CONNECTIONS BITH & FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ORGAN
cores LMS ANSWERS *vES*. ive cowPLere OETAILS.

WGES TG wricn Vou RAVE APPLIES FOR EM

Vyas oF Sis Enawin? CaPAR IRE

| Blowin secs “2 =A

i
i
:
z
‘4
a
3
A

fa KSOE_ECGE, ANY OF TEE ABOVE ATE COMDIETED Wi

my INVESTIGATION OF VOU, INDICATE THE wAwi
TV AND TRE ADOPSKMATE DATE Ge Foe twvkSicoation. ti] 1 WANE OF THE

JKOTE SPECIAL! Ht you entwer Is YES" to rhe following Gevstions 10, 11 or 12. provide the information requested lor each
RXGTRUCTIONS. easton 00,0 seperate, signed shea: oot orach the shea! to this lerm ino secied envelopes

T2U, 08 73 vous KMONLE: SUSE. EVES BEEN DETAINED, ARPESTED, INDICTED 28 COM
ace anv VIGLATION OF THE Law OTHER Tmae A EXOR THAFEIE VIOLATION INTHE UST EOETATES OR

Mave vou Eytan afte RTIALED OF DTHEAEISE PUNHED UNDER MILITARY LAW OR REG
HO MALE IOY YGE OSE OSES EE GT bas secvise Caves OF OECURSENCE O SEPATATE SHEET MN AS
Ceaaamce wre SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS ABOVE”

SECTION xxv PERSON TO BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF EMERGENCY
TE RELATIONS RIP

Thane Fonwedariee) 50778 anpon TES

|
i
i

iC. Fas, fare Sa z iS pene Pow
SETS Hart irl, “Seas sranen, sew Jersey S3}2239-3592
FSS pe a mmenTe waa oF Fame — Snowe wo 8 ET.

tortoree:,

xa oC CLDIE SECA TIVES Grape many FGI MAY ASS WENOTIFIED. IF BUCH NOTRICATION |
tonoy besmemee: Bee. NEAL Tm Gu Orne cass: PCE ASE 70 Brave :



|

ce ne

“Mae

SECTiow save

ania a CEATRICATION

VAI ARE INE SkmED THAT THE CORBECT
anes

F ANY STATEMENT WADE IN TrlS APPLICATION
Wd EST GATE

I howe reod ond uncdecstond the ingarec7,
hacwieage ond telat. Lagan tom ay
Gems! oo rerectoen S ery aeplrt at an.
bow (US. Cade, Tatty 18, Section VLI5

1 Condy teas the foreqomg orswers ore tram and comect to the beet of ay
ote? of arst rom 28 te mare ve! tact anil Conttiture Gromes fer comrade ooe
dite wroerstaed that ony Folge ticerend mace herein may be pnisrccle DY

SATE OF Swat ueee

suly Deeded di

Wsecs si (coy ed sare

Panlieation ef ronth:
Vstreet constriction

Sestion <2I - 4 Previous =a> ZZ, deceased Jec.12, 1957
See eel prone tachosed Sheet © Stetin AF,

Ly ln



During the years I spent in the
Azong then were writers, journalists,
in different fields. It wevid be v y
instance, duri.g the last year 2 ret a ne
into. He wes a professcr in the field <f ec
he told ne xany th n
basis 2f the Soviet
excesding e labour force of the J. Se Ae by 109.
labour and ¢ustrial producticn wasthree tines 1 Were

Waile studri-g in becane 2cq rged wi h a well-known
ie producer - Alexan‘er Stolner. He is 2 of cre cf tne students
y-th whom I was freidiy in nigh school, es, through a friend iz college
I net with several writers ang jourral:sts such as Syknoviehny, Slobcdskoy,
and others writing in the field of satire.
ed fields of industry never talk aber’ their
Rough ny relatives through my wife in Russia werzed in the
idol aviation and electronics I kn:

hed many fri-nds.

d orofessforals
t ali cf then. Per
the building I n-ved
mav2 was Earszy ard
Z tse econ:zte
ustrial latour force
productivity of:

neightcur
nics.

tc

eg that vith an

s Bershads
During t 2 lest years i wierred as a tr,
n the U. S. As Azonz then are 3
ogay (nee. Sgovic) <"ncw in italy, ané=

Grace Duetes.

i
3
H
i
3
i



Section XIX 7 at
G.RELIY EUQEIZ : cousin | 33

Riga, “3:3 Gcverncent ;

vest Het hin in 1960 ard 1961 and 1962, during the suxc

Ket with hin the last tire in

1962 (susrer)

J
i
|
j
cy
i
i
i
. 4
|
ee
q :
i
. : :
hE i ees
r i i :
fatale 4 :
: i i
‘ ~ j wal



: coat eal a i
: : ieee H
L APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994 j
( GIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAN

2 i 4
€ ;
f j
[ ' |
if }
i H
:
|
} a
i }
} 4
t i
j ij
H 4
i i
kx ; ‘
Pr THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS 201-759831  Irv-ng AMKUN

iy a

He

+ FBI Unnumbered ZEK Jul; 18, 1963 Newark, New Jersey

| FBI Fe105-2862; B¥105-100312 2/28/64 Newark, New Jersey

[FRE 4105-2962; B¥105-100312 5/25/64 Newark, New Jersey

| ys. Unnumbered Sept 10, 31965 Newark, New Jersey

} :

5 FBI  Unnumbered July 24, 1969 Washington, D.C-,

r ava

t Tnnunbered Sept. 19, 1969 New York, N.Y.

_
thai by oo



wn .

i

A OR IRR NEI NAemAt na Lea in na hen ESC eee

Semen secuant

BONEN cae nes eon e
. APPROFER fae aricge EIGeS

= Cid BISTORICAL Bryne PReGRAN

oa
=
ey

Irving 4-ren
260 Kershall Court
Long Branch, liew Cersey

June 21, 1564
Bex $1390

Main P. 6.
Washirgtcn, D. C.
20013”

tenticscn:

In.answer to your advertisenent in the New Yori Zines
of June 21, 1964 for a Russian linguist cevable of trenslaving,
analyzing and editing publications, as well as Anterpreting,
Tan enclesing Ly resume,

I lived in Russia for over 25 years and graduated
college there after the beginning of tie Gerzan-Aussian war.
After 7 years of continnons attenpts te leave sia, I wes
repatriated in Seotenber, 1952. I ana native-born citizen of
the United States of Arerica.

In aussia I worzed as a translater, editcr and hea
of Translater'’s Bureaus fc> twenty years. exrerience in
translating, abstracting and selection cf echnical articl:
for publication is significant. Hy ere
are $10,000 per year. I would appreciate the opportunity <f a
perscnal interview for discussing possibilities which nay exist
for ne in your erganization.

Sincerely yours,

Fong or =

Irving Azron : .



berate pane Drie never +s

Born Decezter & 1917, Brocilyn, N.Y.
Married, > cnildren

Bachel:r cf Science, 1%:
Moscow 2: é

1.

2.

5.

6

7

tonsbile & way Institute

lacvelt ing neering Co., 79 iad son Aves, Ti. Ye Cy
giw2y engineer = January, 1352 to present tine.
tartcwre calculations, alignnent ccuputations, drainage
computations and design, rignt-sf-way.

Uy S, S. 2. Chacber of Coxerce, Moscow.
nica? transiat and editor - iussian to
1952. Left due to reoatriati

Rep: fer International Congres:es, trade publications,
Rantsis, dan corstructicn, road-puildine ana bcheber aie nore ans

lance tech-
lish 1352 to

im ~rade Publishizg Xouse. Free-lance technical trans-
later and editor - fussian to English 1556 to 12362.
Saze as in iten 2,

ntific Research Inst tute of Construction and Read-Building
%, Mose-w. 1956 to 1958.

tizg jobs. :
vAhaje.ent, ed ting translation -
tion and read-butldifg rachinery

Russiax to English: constru
Ganuals, trade publications.

Bororg2 Read Revaiz Departrent
Seni:r engineer 1950 to 1955.
Field work = surveying, estizator.

oWe
tion cf forces,

Concrete Plant, Hiscow
Labcretcry assistant 1949 to 1950. Reduction of forces.
Checking quality and composition c? concrete. ‘

Techn‘eal Library of Noseow City Soviet. ° ‘
Seni:r Librarian 194% to 1549. Reduction of forces.

Head cf Translat-r's Burean = English to Russian. Publication
of monthly inforzation bulletin.

Part-tine translater ~ Hydrablic Power Designing Institute =
(iyarcenergoprosect) - English to Sussian 1:45 to 1952

(abstracting). Russian to English 1952 to 1952 (Reperts for
International “orgresses, dam projects). _ i

Book translated and published in MX scow in 1958. by Pcreign

Languages Publishing House: "Precast Concrete in the Scviet

Union®*

pale nine as
: : i i
: : meee Nem penne aan


1 Court
new Jersey

pets

Box * 1390

Nain P. 0.
Washington, D. C.
20013



- refusels.

szecessiv.
erctive
parents.
tended sek.
Te Se awe
retrrred to

pore
phon
~

Us" Ope

oe

wes in 2ct.ve 3.
i was coereted u
2 G@iscnarged fro.

a@ senicr librarian

the

o

eral

&
Bets © ot

h
“3

y &os.sea.
Das a seni:r enzineer
vas di 3 ang

get out
tine of
we continue:
1957 we c
to leave

contre
cely,
filled i
I filled o

| rest:red my _rati

ber of Commerce and
til canvary. of 1956
1956 2 began working as the ‘ead y
rstitute cf Cerstructicn and
ng finisned tre tren: fen of 211 manuais int
ing until I left tie Soviet Union as a free-i
fer the on f ccmverce, tre frac

organ‘ zati
ef the Se‘ernt!
Yachinery. Aft
field i conts:
later

root
Mouse, tne ?-re‘gn Languages Prblishing
ani zations requ ri:.¢ transiatcrs.

2 the le Se Ae i t a icb as a civil enzineer. At
first PS i ling, Ucrd-W.od and Van Suetc-dal fr B¥ey 1962

to Dec. nm from canary, 172 to culy, 190% Twred fcr
Elauveit s MOR AL wesent. > an wretug for Jarcld J. Seldin,
6) ircad St., Red Fax New ¢ o last several nontns I. have
been wirkirz ea a frec-lance basis wita A SXEAC! Corpiration (1634 Arch Ste,

Pailadelp..i2, Pa.) as an abstzact-r.

/

rae

ot

—_———

9 Seana eer ree eA AAT PTE TRAIT I ALOT eT OT RR LT epee reremenntn feet ere ROR


During the years I spent
seong thea were wr “ters, ¢ Pic
in é'fferent f
instance, ¢ 2 last year
into. He wes a tees int
he told re many things

mived

ted thet vith a:
Jo S. A. d7 109:
al produetien wasthree tites 1
gin b

movie producer ~ Alexenier St

with whon I wes fr t
I net ae s

f tre students
Aa friend in colleze
Ss ee siotedstoy,

met many pecple
@ne Paul 5
ethers.

wio were bc;

S. A. Acorz thes ar
Grace Suet

y (mee 3govic) - now in Italy

t



Section 42%

ecusin 33
Gcvernzent
Het hin in 1960 ard 1661 and 1362, during the stoner
Net with kin the ast tice in
Ser

mantunrateesett ta

reer entree


- refusels.

ew Cersey
Flo )eese te

er 4, 1917, Zrocklyn, 7. ¥. ce, 144
dren i t “wey Institute

tended school
Te Se
returred to Russia.
later worzed
in a public dint:
accented as a stz
ny parents and br:

secw in 1936 wes
Institute. In 13737

cer, 17:2 I was sent to
cre i was in act:ve duty as a piel
was operated upon ote .

publicati
nated. I

icen naze, t
nane = Volsc7a) wa
she_eculd n
In 1352
he2ite cer scn

narried cnly 2 fe.
in ovr carriage wa.

after the brith <f ow son we began
tions for en e ‘t visa from the Scviet Scvernnent. At
get out as visitcrs to oy parents. We received our first
tine of the Ungarian Revolt. p till 1957, when By |
we continued to ii as fer an ex't v.
1957 we contin
to leave

contr:
gely, 7
filled i two
I filled out int bassy in
‘born citizen was a nausea grant
Dept. of itete, afte: ny arr: val, res
In 1357, due to a red
Eaunan cad t pair Dest. At this
translat r in the U.S.S.2.
cenergcorolect.
In 1956 e began Wore: azslat. rs Dept.
7 at f titete cf Corstructicn and iia ding
Machinery. after

2 frees i lost ry staf? gob in the
i was working es a frec-lance

‘ere, t
use, the F-retgn iaanobas Publ! shing
: C crgaz: zations requ ring transi ators.
ifte: rete: 5. ta jcb as a civil enzine at
f’rst Ivorred f-r vetcrd2l fr Vey 1962
to Dec. Zs 1954 Twer:ed fcr: :
Elauvelt =r ag werding fcr Zarcld J. Seldin,
6) drcad St., Red byt 5 the jast several nents I-havé

4 en a frec-lance bass wita AED Corpcration (1634 Arch Ste,
Pailadelp..ig, Pa.) as an abstract-r. 7 1

fouse, = Hydr energcors fect

TA



fracies Fanaa,
18 OUSTORCRL ey =pbel

from
T stant

LNT IDENTHAL_|
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADORESS

t outer REPLY THREPARE REPLY

aFrASE  BISFATEN ‘RECOMMENDATION
“CCuwEsT Tre a AETORM
ContECAEACE IRFCRMATION.

TRchSsiriep, “CONFIDENTIAL

ic

PEAT 237 te reves re 06 cevtnenrerceanen ret soe earner

=

ce teeseagnaranateeetereeaaeascesnet eg nance os -


CR LASSIFICATION TOS AND (TOU
Test L CONFIDENTIAL |] StUcHET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADORESS

race = REPLY YOUEPARE REPLY
ASFRSVAL Depa ‘TECOMMENDATION.
ccuwert ‘ETUAN
Concatneact ca 2 SGNATURE

ibs owt
t ,, - . a
eh &
Py esd Parr 045, obs U

Math + FBI ft fe,

iges

pet
FLD Nene TO RETURN TO SORE
TAGE. eawe, soomese 9 Peper oe

enews

t



Irvirg Anron
260 iarshall Court
Long Eranch, liew Jersey

Septexber 23, 1964

3

1390

n Post Office
hineton, D.C.
. 3503

Dear;

u ; cesta

I greatly Appreciate the tire you spent with ne
durirg our interview in Pniladclphia. My intentions to vork
for four organi zation hav --hargeds I am very busy at

ny eb at 25 this, send you a dif-

ferest copy of ny autobic Rope that this will not
unduly influence the conciusions of your. organi zaticn re-

lating to wy exploynent.

Yours truly,

Tony loom

Irvizg Aor:n

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 4983

: gg amgrORNeR EVER PROCREAR


Irving d-ron
260 Mars=211 Court
Long Bre=ch, tiew Jersey

is 1370 3

Fain Post Office
Washington, D. C.
20013


Irvirg Anron
260 Harshall Court
Long Eranch, New Jersey

Septexber 29, 196%

Mr, Paul Peters
OX 1390

Nain Post Office
Washington, De C.
20013

Dear Hr, Peters:

I greatly appreciate the tire you spent with me
during our interview in Philadelphia. Hy intentions to work
for your organization have not .henged. I am very busy at
my job at present and cannct, due ts this, send you a dif-
ferent covy of ny autobiceraphy. I hope that this will not
unduly influence the conclusions of your. organization re=

Yours truly,

Low's anon

Irving darcn



1 :

Irving A-ron

260 Marsz2ll Court

Long Brezch, New Jersey
! ,
; ,
{ ire Paul Peters z

Eox 1330 :

i Kain Post Office :

Washington, D. C.
20943

Re A BER NA ee cn

i
j
H



i
t
;
‘
i
i

Washington,-D.C.
26 August 1944

Dear Mr. Amrons

1 am making reference tc your reply to my ad for @ fo=

From i to & Septemper, i will be ia Fhilaceipula to cone

“ duet Interviews for the position. I will phone you upon my

arrival In Philadelphia to arrange a mutually corvenient
schedule for an Interview with you.

Should you st!1l be interested and if you have not al-
ready forwarded the material to kindly prepare the forzs
1 forwarded to you some time ago. Also, please bring with
you the photograph and the autobiography.

Thank you for your Interest In cur program.
bs Cordially,

x ‘ . ee Cfficer

Box 1390 :
Main Post Cffice
Washington, D.C, 20013

itton with the U.S. Government as a Russian language Ifrguist.—

sedne nets

- APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CHa RISTO RICH SEMEN PReceay |



oe Washington, D.C.
26 August 1964

Dear Mr. Amrons

I am making reference tc your reply to my ad for a fo=
tion with the U.S. Governsent as a Russian language Lirguist.

From i to 4 Septemer, i will be in Fhiladeipula to cou
: duct Interviews for the position. I will phone you upon sy
arrival In Philadelphia to arrange a mutually convenient

as G schedule for an interview with you.

Should you still be Interested and If you have not al-
ready forwarded the material to me, kindly prepare the forns
J forwarded to you some time ago. Also, please bring with
you the photograph and the autobiography.

Thank you for your interest {n cur program.

Cordial

Paul Peters
x , : Administrative Cfficer

Box 1350
Main Post Cffice
Washington, D.C. 20013

ie ne enc en a to

vb beeted y= =



: __, APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
J es CA HISTORICAL -REWiey paggnara

Tree er

PERSONALITY FILE ACTIO® RECLEST

TO! BOD/Z01 Section [Tre STATION: Tmt

Peer [eee
watt cc) a
| F SaaeE cr

CFieet) (idate)

Wise VER TATIONS
Fine) (widdted

‘GecatiaTyaw oa InTeMA TeEeTe AP rLeat ize

Vi. SceuPaT ion (Clee? veatd™

[ie Samba bese

BAND CARRY IF TRUE \GMR APPEARS ABOVE







Dee ér40

™aepORT OF MEDICAL HISTORY hited

le aE AY OD ik Wa AE NLD

Shara @ eens

Tie
S4sle

par ts

THT SGA PEITOR eee Die a

wet (Crack ench ems Sry

ory iv

cawenes | [yaar

errs

Bae ae NFechonel Preesther

Neseneternant Sa



.

a 7 Tia en ae pen Oem eet

CF Hm ne EF

Tan 6908 tee

“ Dsehegen Ave

a

Aerag Ve.

cide hees,

So ot

aaa a

Fs seat



[isa Sate (alee

10S wCT ASE Toot SPACE ~
PERSONAL HISTOR STATEMENT { ioly 5, 106h*
Hl oot!

INSTRUCTIONS 2s

L. Azswer all questions completely or check appropriate box. If qestion is not arplicabt write “NA®. rite *Us-
known” cain if you do aot know the answer and it cannot be obtained from persoaal records. Use blak space s¢
24 of fen for exzra cetails 0a say questce for wtich you have insufficient space.

1. Type, print of wrize carefully; illegible or mcouptete forms will cot receive cocsideration.

3. Coasider your answers carefuliy. Yoor sxgaature at the ead of this forn will cerufy to their correctness. Carefz!

conzictios cf all appiicable questions wit permit review of yocs qualifications to the best advantage.

GENMEGaL PERSONAL AD PHYSICAL DATA
Tease

‘ 46

IRIIZG

we Fewsce

r Enea Ce vas CCLOM OF ram

VOE CCoPL ERE Te tree eons
blue brown 22

{heavy

6'0:



i.

=


See cn Oo ae iinr immed
