# 104-10217-10000

## Page 1

14-000009

104-10217-10000

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AlAL

20 May 2963

•HERORALDLE FOR 218 RESORO

SUB/ECT, CLERATE ICEETA CHARLES

6

1. On 29 April 1963 Darotka Matlack, Dametso Explodtation

feot1oa, ACI, telenhoned to the effort that a banter aund elemart

Joseph Charlos bad laSt Enlil ols daya suzilar dat Lal just arrived

vas disoribad es President el tse banc Caneradale, Part es itines,

1299 ano 2a1 alartod CAl. La Hall La 101ca1s to contest Dias 155

CaselaD.

On l liny 63 Mrs, latlach edudeed that Carna vas startag us

the Parts Searertsen Hotal, Een Test, ond khat ha had talend tar

also he sey lal bain smaller la bia ly Dagar. Carlos caneddars

har to be lso podat of osstare la leeblagtea..

marlos an arrantra to 090 11re Senilent senson, Aster Footing

to sporantativas of Mis. Mutlost's offlos, in, Asslect statod that

Bagllab all & liney In Iranch use tharclara regulad far the Intai

1on, Mri. Hatlacs mated tist iso must la eula to obtala a Bunca

Legat sia Frot Any, Corosman's lelast, bis ba vaua not be as

intelllom afficar. It as toddad thut Juan Balot, Ery York

Ostics, to has a molodgs ef the trash lengage would anemary

sha deal roguestarin

Balog tould enot the ACST reprosestative (Caytala Dogsta) at the Para

b On 2 Hay 63 Mo. Natlaes reportod that Col. Kail bed Laterrier

17. DEJur la Heat Pall louch, Dayor had expodated Querion en Durata.

Of Ids bani 15 Ea1t1, Marles, ascarding to Dryer, somerly bad no

palitieal ancestons but la ver of the currens palliteal astration sa

Matt, Charles sou thinke that he say pora day to president.

doscribad carlos us vall-conscted, palitieally an Monrelarly, i

bots sides of the fesco 1a Eastl.

Ba 1a also a good itloid of Prentderat

servallas.

vating mad ta oiser articals 1s lashington. Cailos vented to des

President Krady und trined had son to the baits louse to arrant

for an sypolitant. Is the sall noalved by the toildnat'o eppotet

Bart socretary and invited to dumar that evalug ulth the appounten

---

## Page 2

MATT CENSONINA CRANES

Sure e undentnting, busuer, caries 111 sor

4. Charles 10 trovallins, Beerilng to Isyas, uta a Desan

a sastLeS Sur Caarles Ulta Vios faseldant soleson.

3. Da 3 Evy 63 jin Dalaz tadozinasa to earlin thas do tra bal a

dietned both paramality lots sal view ty Carlos as utas stali

Daltel states sall do la ta surat lattes altardos Eles

atlead that ha vis transatting taa Infusedler to kashursts.

6. Da 6 say 61 Moto Btanti, lurpert Extrad, atusood East IS

Ing sorratiens, is. Hutlned stated that tha roud areas ulta the

desta Dijartasai Prutonnl crises li eteratas velas hotale vorld

adult saty paste.

Es. Madloct finally ada ruparationa at tis

Albra taura, A cheet u1ê9 Ila tales tomales that la lad astonsed

LOs Earles to 1snt ts lil rogunertativa is la Lasty of the lislare

Lobal, banblagton, D. C., so 1800 BRIs En 1 Ney. Attento do reco

CALl USA BANA tO ATO. MELLONA dO ESTESTO tRES CASTLOS VARLA Da 1I

Kashligton en tust it ma that arringnesto had bira ssda for a =

meting uith an ayancy rupeessitorive for 12100 sooni. leg. Magleet

astarted that both kirs, da Ratirezcallas end Carion bel callod bos

Wording st 04B3 puJases.

Bon had recrimed antiansion from

af ten emerses and praged da te mpastles ta sha ll livletoa

santasive taclued tle cotes and sargerated tint a ranting later sa.

tha afterans ba eranged. Has, itise balseved sast das to can

LITTLES LESENITILENO, BLA LAL BOGS DIARSE IS HIS ELEMLA LE L

stustles prun vidal the could not precoualy dittira dad suquesta

... i

---

## Page 3

• 14186181. 1104.

!.u..

•3.

la I et kra. Mablach ta 139 Loaty of tha Hotal liland esserei,

afere soch, and a for sintos Leter, Mr. Charlas arrivid, anteaded

by l, end Ers, do Mobrescald, la laschel la tho restaturt la

tan barol, l5, la lntrensch11es mstlosod test ha had boca bora da

Bata, lasuto, but durlag the inlevis loralation had baen taben to

Palsad as a mall chili.

Falend foler to lorla Var II sal bad dervid di tna pallad Arry.

BliTze la 1951 und vallo da Enlgiado had 156 Ansulla sto sag 01818129.

Balgada us tha pino. Ha hal sponsa to comalia sul vas israeld to

Dassa.

As, Co lobrenscherto ma tura la Feldnd, Causa. Lox Dather vas

lunalen in bar nother freud, und aha la any et has bosn e fasaley.

15. 13 HoRsenschIlat ntional teS ha has Mo Ciaries

for scantino en thst da de a jartaar vita lan la a adeal tasdossa

Ios F21ti.

8 Bott (arles end da lassunsenllai para asdeas to arrango

KE. GIDES DORLA ISSO ESE 13 BRO IRUUY, LE IALO ETE, MOLLOS, l. eSt

8. In t1s couree of tha leahson eustustation, Carlos rad

Bostlesad to kra. Natians tant ba deadrei to ese 4 Ne. ilea, ATD, ta

disousa Ds eld ro laltl. Istor thas afterados th. Astlaes called la

otato fant ina bad estlad tho stata Dapertust do paso slong Charloa°

raguert, Mt. Lutarato (State) lal called los badò to seco ea tha

HAStLEn DOBI MAD'O ENtraNO dieNlEnDare that espons da tEa Vattad desters

GOVerTEEt ShOULA DO 1U OSTIERRi eSItaGE iliA Caarios. Sia dont assa

ooas100r0d cuarios to ba dozo to tas Duveller Govarsat, to bava

bera savairad la soveral shado sinsnetal danlines, sd la pesaral, o

DE EB INdESITablO CHarSOTET. HrE, latlact canad vorther tha Agamey

bad sy LEtarder la charles ubles suald dotato surthas conteot ilta

Chastos.

a rosalE ol tha sotting via Caples, tio ID/P Fasties Dest ded mo

furthar piena sa cautest lis I tald lino. latleca tast em? intereot

arenad to bava boan sataañiod ent tost I ballered la basala disongago

oursalusa as frasafally es posalalo.

nes versi

---

## Page 4

U1. Hayno Delçoa, ID/I Coordinatos, callod on 1 Hay to Inquire

concernias our intalresent in ten Charles ches.

He stated that hasI

had called his orler that day to asoure bin that ASSI bad so direet

Interst is Charle end that 11 vas actina as an intonialary at los

request of Central delar uto had passed tha load to Gensral prtet.

NaI ma conceread tust dus to the us un in appointeanta to see

carlos, changos idol taras be made that dost had Interfernad ar

had obstructed CL contact vita Charles. I explaisod to balson vaat

bad happened and de loter called back to stelo that Alsi vas complataly

sat1e'lad 1a the vay the matter had beca handlod.

12.

O3 8 My Mrs, Matlect telephonal to advira that the Operational

Branch of ACBI vas discusing tha Guarlos cane vita Do/P to dotaridos

future course of action, Sua sas Billl cacoast etacamad ator ler cua

position 1a tho coon sinos Cherlos considered her to be too focal godet

lo Vanbragton. I raltarated to bor tist the matter vas ons for aftbar

the stato Departunat or la oparutional elsasnto to bondla and cost

hrs. Hatlacs santioned that a

Inpatah had baon reasired to she elfact tbat a cousin ol Caarles vai

predalently sentlosad as a euc00sa0r to Duvaller nbould the latter

She was as the opiaion that the ls errantont should

contiana to "play ball" with caurles no a fature assot la daltler

astalrs.

A. F. CRATONIT

pistiltutions

Cang a 0/Cates

1 - How York 0181cg

1 - Support (stunts)

1 = LA Breach

1 - Indas (Control)

1 - Dep/Call citro

---

