# 104-10186-10280

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10280

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

IN FORMATION REPORT

MINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

correl noalaina laformalura aparting lha Matingal Dalenes al lso linited Bla

within the meesire of the laptonate Lam, Tita

UBC Sica. TAl and Til, the iraneralados of reroialton ot antch la day liander lo all unbulborised Mraca de probloilad by i

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT Elpidio INTERIAN Comezanas

REPORT NO. CS C1-316/00633-64

DATE DISTR 13 AuguSt 1964

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. August 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INPORMATION. SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

he following report ly one of a series containing personalit

nformation provided by the source and includes supplementa

information from the records of this Agency:

It is requested that the addressees take no action: on any

of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports

without first checking with this Agency.

1.

Elpidio INTERIAN Comezanas 1s a servant in the Cuban Embasss

In Mexico City.

Source saw INTERIAN at the Embassy in Marci

conference.

Headquarters Comments

1.

4

3

2

3/PV

and code clerk.

His wife is 01lberta JORGES Caceres.

INTERIAN has two

brothers,

one, Guadencio INTERIAN Comezanas, born in

Habana on 18 February 1927,

is a diplomatic

courier,

the other brother, name unknown,

is believed to be in

Cuba and a medium level PURS official.

2.

A report dated 12 February 1964, stated that Elpidio

INTERIAN Comezanas is the hulder of passport D/63/427;

his wife, Gilberta JORGE Caceres, is the holder of

passport

D/63/428; daughter Esther is included on wife's

CROU

lache bad tron

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

1.DIA

ARMY

I HAVY

I NSA

I oce

• FBI 2

REP CINCLANT CINGSO # I&NS

¡Noto: tiald dintribution Indicaled by "#")

3

INFORMATLON REPORT

RH/ SA/EOB| 1| WE/5/R

CI/LIA

1

AH/ SA/MOB: 4

HE MADR

CL/R&A

INFORMATION REPORT.

TEXCANA DAILM

14S-1534

IE/BRITISHLI

DO PROJECT (ANNUG

(1)

L WaSH BRIND

CSCI-316/ 00683-54

HH. SALCI

RIDLAN_

1

TOTALS

LIAISON

WHK: LD: SAk

CI/RSA

---

## Page 2

3.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

passport: and daughter Dolores is holder of passport D/63/429.

INTERIAN'S brother, Guadencin, 1s a diplomatic courter and

was born on 18 February

1927; in May 1963 he traveled to

Sultzerland, in October 1963 to Zurich and Prague, and from

18 to 16 January 1964 traveled to Djakarta, Canton, and

Hanol. His brother Armando was the secretary gereral of

the Guanabacoa Regional Committee of the Partinio Sociallata

Popular (PSP).

Armando spoke at a meeting of the Juventud

Socialista in

Regla and condemned the landing of United

states troops in Lebanon, praised soviet policy, and

called upon the Cuban Communists to initiate an intensive

propaganda campaign against the United States/United

Kingdou intervention in the Near East.

In September 1963,

Armando

was reportedly the leader of the Organizaclones

Revolucionarias Integradas.

A group of Cuban emigre's trained in the techniques of

information collection and who have provided useful reports

for two years said in a report dated 19 March 1964, that

Elpidio INTERIAN Comezanas is a G-2 agent in the Cuban

muassy in Mexico who deals directly with the Ambassador.

INTERIAN was described as a rough, reserved individual

with a sickly wife who is rarely seen.

In a report dated 9 July 1964, from a resident of Mexico!

who has reported reliable information for about three

years it was learned that Cubana air passages vere

authorized by Habana for Elpidio INTERIAN Comeranas and

his family.

INTERIAN and his family arrived in Mexico

in July 1963.

Source said that with the departure of

INTERIAN, the Cuban Embassy would have a new code clerk.

SECRET

NO

FOREIGN

DISSEM

---

