104-10171-10008|

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ements tee een eeeee pape. etre eee,

UFG=1297
25. July_1963

IMWAVE
Prrenrrarsean

—+
Harold’ P, norsavaf Me

Oliver K, PAPOC!

- Source: Thé information attached to this report fell into
‘the hands of JMWAVE through two distinct channels, Sometine
prior to 7 July 1962 ANCOG-2 through a cut-out had delivered
to AMBLEAK-2 some material, AMCOG-2 does not know AMBLEAK-2,
AMBLEAK~2 brought it out to AMBLEAK-1 who on? July 1962
turned the "pouch" over. to HAWLOTT, AMBLEAK~1's C/O, C/O
intercepted this "pouch" and xeroxed the cover pages of the
reports which were generated by (AUTSIPEX; the material was

woathen re-inserted ,in the "pouch" and sent on its way, The
ALI SMPEX Teports\écheduled for the ANSPELL organization, It

S assumed that the AMSP"ELL received the material in due
course, and they in turn delivered the material to NOEMAYR(P)
the AMSPELL C/O, on or about 19 July,

This is the background to a story which now gains new
importance, The information which was copied by HAWLOTT ig
not reflected in toto in the materiel eventually received

by NOEMAYR, thus the xeroxed copies of some of the documents,
original copies for which were not received from the AMSPELL
organization,

ayeine @cromT

wean aw
Paste iwuTiON

OPT iesaus Cutnits ecco wtia not ar Puaeo IW te

3 Tatearnctney
‘Son Import/Export of Food tens.
19 Repards

‘Att. _H/W: ‘uban Govt Doctinent
3 - Headquarters.w/mat & att,
1 = 00/c
1 - File

NO, OF UNCLORURES

wercaenete

: SECRET Toor
INOFORN/CONT'D CONTROL,

ue

1G~ 3 gab/>

IRN TO CIA
RET URE Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1
|

Ape



SECRET
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

REPORT COVER SHFET (continued)

Operational security precludes a confrontation of the AMSPELL
organization, therefore Headquarters. will have to be satisfied

with copies of the original documents for. some of the import/

export items, and with xeroxed copies of merely the cover sheets *
.for some of the other. itemse oo.) tern cece eee fe

.d story has had one positive reaction,

This whole

1962 ‘at 1930 hours NOEMAYR and PAPOCK will be visiting the intel~ >
ligence components of the AMSPELL-organization. to see what type =~.
of information they might have which does not, has not, and
probably was not, going to be forwarded to NOEMAYR,..,

Nepean ts Ie

Place acquired changed to Cuba to facilitate dissemination,

Accord: a ,the DRE the ultimate source is K

The covering note from the DRE“in Cuba to the DRE = ~
n- exile’ pdinted out that these documents were originals, and that
the information in them is available-to Dorticos, Fidel, Carlos

Rafael Rodriguez and two or three other people. An evaluation

of this material would be appreciated from KULYNX,

PLEASE NOTE: The enclosed attachments are unique,
other copie @s available,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

¢
On 24 July ne
‘
L
,
ene .
There are no
—

ales.
