‘404-40186-10063), {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ere)

Pan : CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

us material contains information aferting the ational Defense of tbe United States STIBin the weaning of 30 Eapionage Lawe, THs
12 COC Cera, Td and TH the tracemtaton ce reretation of which in ony manner to an uneUtherined ferme bw pronibtted By law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba - - a REPORT NO. CS CI-316/00709-65
SUWECT Suat PEREZ (aiias "Raul") ~ OaTE OstTR, «12 February 1965

NO. PAGES 1
REFERENCES, eee ads .
page
8 July 1966 RETURNTO CIA

‘DATE OF

neo. 1964 Background Use Only
puce a Washington, D. Co

Pate sta, Dec: uber 1964 FIELD REPORT NO. Do Not Reproduce

THis 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADINOT ARE DEFINITIVE, _APPEAISAL OF CONTENT 1 TENTATIVE,

Source: A former Cuban IS -fficer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964. :

Headquarters Comments

The follewing report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental |
infermation from the records of this Agency,

It 2s requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Juan PEREZ, alias “Raul,” is a chauffeur in the
Depat*amento de Liberacion Nacional (National. Liberation
Department - LN) of the Direcciun General de Inteligencia
(General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

2. PEREZ, a Caucasian, was bord between 1935 and 1940.
He is five feet eight inches tall, weighs 160 pounds,
and has a medium build.

Headquarters Comment

1, Due to the comaonness of Subject's name and a lack of
identifying backgrouad information, this Agency has been
unable to identify Juan PEREZ through a’ file trace.

6
4
SECRET 3
NO FOREIGN DISSEM 2
ware oa Tamar Trav Ta Tse TREX Toc T For 2
REP CINELANT CINCSO # I8NS
| Note: Fig!d distribynon indacoted by “#*.)

Xi
| €SCI-316/00709,

ee, a

Tnitony

Tae
