R THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

“04-40172-0336 [2022 RELEASE UNDE
ie RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
i : : Do Not Reproduce
. s
: mamas mae
Sue HEE
i oe a
ba ed oruihro2
Gilet, vE wl 2D July 1956
Chief of 3tation,[Hel sink

SDC? /LCTAPROVE
Girmor 4. wanursz] Ob itt

RAFERONCS: Congelazee, 15 dune 1956

"
1,0 Me subject and his fanily left ielsinkt for god on 17 July
2956. Glewvar had Just returned from bis second trip to the Soviet
Union during the week of ) - 13 July and vas oniy in selsinki for four
ir five days prior to leaving for the united States via Gurope. at
tion! sl recusst, the Cultural Attache, Dr. ott, call ft
his office and asked him a few aimpls questions, euch a¥; how wae
hia trip to the USSR, if he imew any Soviets in iielsinkt, end if 20,
which onss. According to Dr. Ott, the Sudject seared quite anxious to
answer all these questions and even offered to give fWler answers, if
required, Ile added that he had taken many pictures wile in the Soviet
Union, sone of eee of the Soviet officials he mot in koscov. ~

is}

OL

2. Since! Tal nad agroed to talk more at length with an
American, Dr. Ott, as rearranged, told hin that vir, nillian Mansfield
would get in idth: nia over the weec-end by phone ant arrange to

goo hia. (ic J@ve Crt the tele-;hore nuaber of his temporary reai-
donee, but the (Stalin |ms umble to reach him because no one answred
$he phone. «The days betwen 13 and 17 July vere rather busy at the

\Y-} (Station) sinos tro ENS gare officers wre here on [CY and remuired

Woe

Varying degrees of(Sthtitajassistance. Both Andrew i. Reutoman and
Harold &. Shands, the cas@ officers in question, agreed to pose as
Milliag Mansfield and do the Sebriefing if they could find the time.
Both, however, were qui-o tusy and LONS TY coud rot be reached,

De
3. CLOWATEO) as Headquarters perhaps knoxe hy now, 19 an Asaistent
Professor of Mathemtics at the University of Aiciigan. ile hone ad- .
dress is 1409 Stadford Road, Ann Artor, Michigan. tie was born on 20
October 1922 in Rochester, Kew Tork. Aa can be sean from the dafermtioa
below, it would’ probably be of some RSDCAY value for his to be debriefed
at Ann Arbor next fall. oyew ne

ras wre 2,
SECRET,
Cipy Rept REVEL


we
Graven

(eras Page
: Mord? 2 wy 19%

Ob
he (Lottat-A]ia not idectical wth the Aulbright atulent Jane P.
Kichline @poxe of. That stusent te fohn H. KOOG. of Larteouth College,
who was debriefod by ilarold A. Mands on ly daly. Ov

Ov
5. The personalities of interest woalrJATS has met eeen to be
GLUE (tau), @ Zoviet Vice Counsul who 4 an aseietant to Ivan Ss20:YEV,
(and Yurt Voul0iH, He aleo met a Finnish Cormmist mosd aiisk (fu),
\, She wae sitting with CLUB and VGXONIN at @ Finnish restaurant. On one
sccantolifLoitsat asked (LU3 over to his apartment for a drink and
suggested that CULUS bring VOLONIY and the Finnish Gosminist along b
When the Finish Communist did mot turn up dor a drink, (Cavsar sty abla
hin Rusaian quests why. Onn of tho Rusalans allegedly replied that,”
"do do not lils to associate with these Finnish Communists. nany of
these Comunists sho wuld betray their oi country would also betray
wa boos you con't trust thea.?

lo
6. On one osesstor Desa] saw the Fim's passport and noted that
he had travelled to practYcally evury country in the world,

is)
1 Infta pre] USIS file there 1s a letter dated 16 April 1985,
in whten [Eo, 4ake peraisaion to go to the Soviet imion. the letter
reads ao folléfe:

i "I have been invited by the Suviat Acade:y of Seiences to
give one or two lectures in doscow at the end of this woeks
The dato of departurs trom Haleinki has not yet been fixed,
but I ehould like to infor you at this tim af the plans,
The violt will not axcead three or four days.

Sincerely,
i OW
i. a loneater)
Although UGTS has been repeatedly briefed that the Habasay 1s interested .

in practically everything regarting the travel of persons in ani out of
the Soviet Hloc, this item was mt brought to the Babasey's attention,

Oo vo
8, ince tha, experiences of (LoHMATS: and (ic0030¥) have many atatlaritios,
1% Le possitde Nay artenene of (te one wife the U332; however, (BNOGI0H)Oe
Seok two, andthe undersigned say be confusing the two cases. On tho other
hand, if QouWATsa] went in April and hie last date of antry fron the USS was ”
in aid-vuly, 1t looks as if he took two trips alec, However, his file caly

refers to one,

edt



seORET a

9. The fact that the above information te wo apotty is a direct

: ratlection oo Dr, e}'a debriefing, wiles was vory superftatal because
dots do ant theLSatLoa}thougrt thet Laviat=d could be debriefed in more
@etail before be left Finland. OL

10, Tale is the first tims the Station ins heard of Vice Consal
{ QELS. WAIN and SSiGSTEV are, of course, wall imown. The Station
i} would be very interested in all inforuation[LamaTe] can give om GOLUB
ani the Pinnish Communist. 0b

Melvin H, Pendleton

2B dady 1956
Distribstion:

hie

her  '2oec aw
