# 104-10186-10089

## Page 1

104-10186-10089

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNT ORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

of

SECRET

• NO FÖREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SURECT Omar LNU (al1as "Oucar")

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

ESCX-316/00507-68

1 February 1965

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

3 July 1964

DATE OF

INFO.

1984

PLACE & Washington

DATE AÇO. Januar

65

THIS IS UNEVALUATED IMPORTATION. SOURCE GRADINGA AN I DE'INTIVE APPRAISA O CONTENA IS MANING.

SOURCE,

A formor Cuban IS Officer who served with the Cuban Intelligenco

Service until Aprll 1964.

Headquarters Comments

he following report 18 one of a series containing personalit.

nformation provided by the source and includes supplementa

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any ol

the individuals mentloned in the personality reports without

firet checking with this Agency.

Central America,

of the Direccion

General de Inteligencia (General Directorate

of Intelligence - DGI).

carries.official credentials of

the Cuban Ministry of Interior.

Omar LNU resides at 54th Street,

No. 2119,

Apartment No. 5, Habana, Cuba, and his telephone

number 1s 22-2892.

2.

Omar LNU, a Cuban citizen, was born in 1943 or 1944.

He is five feet

seven inches

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency

on Omar LNU, allas "Oscar "'eveal no identifiable Information

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

REP

I ARMY

CINCLANT

(Nora: flald dierribution Indicared by "#".)

CINCSO #

TAIR

INSA

T&NS

TXXX

TOck

FBY 2

INFORMATION REPORI INFORMATION REPORT

MH/SA/EOB I HELS.R

ICILLIA

LJEACANADAN

-HELMADR!

2 CI/RELA

3EABRITISHI

[N-2226 & LX-229р

NO PROJECI (ANHUGY 1)

752

+ WHISHBRI

CSC1-316/00507-65

MI/SALCI

WHLMAVE

1

TOTALWH/SA 8

RIDLAN

(1), HE 1 (2), CI 1, RID 1

111180M d

LS: LD: swi

10-5-1

---

