# 104-10172-10254

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10172-102541

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

LE UNELASSIFIED

INTERYM

•LY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

FROM

02

POLADDLE

Cahhitlax 0s

SE/DB

4D57

aber, and

IMPASSION

9149

DATE

10 August 1977

DATE

ното: постнакого

NEMAL

FOR PILADOLS 201

please file

10.

• 11.

12.

1J.

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

13.

2-01

roau 6105 m

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

SECRET

6 August 1911

MEHOLADIM TUS Chect, Difector Branch

SE Division

SUBJECT

Jack Anderson Article on ALACLE Case

1. Tass is to inforn you that on 2 August 1977, at the request of Chief, SEXs

secretary, I telophoned Mr. Jack Blake, the Actids DDCI.

2. 85. Elato assed no If "WLADLE" meant anything to so end did I over work

With ALADIS. (1c. Blake used the cryptonya "MADE, " not kis true name.) I told

Mr. Blake that I had worked with ALADLE, along uith mary other case officers. He

asked if I know of the circunstances of ALADLE's defedtion, and I roplied that I

know the case ratter vell.

Jack Anderson which vas not in our local.(lashington, D.C.) neuspaperspstated that

*John Mclahon handled the jElADLE case and there was a bug (microphone) In every room

in the house where ALiDLE was kept. " Mr. Blake asked If I wore that John cMahon] O3

The had spoken with John N. Sclahon earlier; who knew nothing about the case). !

repeated that I vorted on the ALADLE case along with many orkers, saM ALADLE on

many occasions, but never worked iith hin in ny true name. I told Mr. Blake this

18 inside Inforsation, is a socurity violation; and asked hou Jack Anderson obtatned

It. Mr. Blake said be didn't know but that soneone would look into it. Fe thanked

no for uy inforcation and said he may contact no later.

lo I suptest thit you obtain a copy of the above deationed Jack Anderson article

2243

as it pertains to a Cesectos handled by this Division and was a very sensitive case

at the tine. It vould be interosting to knou, too, what else Andersos had to say

about this case or the Ageney's handling of it, and it should bo nade a part of the

AELLOLE 201 file. -*

#Copy dath alicady

John 3. iciahon, IC

Geolat

Nole: Secretary of C/SE (Mary Ball, R-9045).

'a braey. dabies prosites.

Ilaspent Passa (VA.) paber io outer, aclion labre bu, SE/08 A

#.T.

---

