# 104-10326-10067

## Page 1

1704-10326-10067

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHENO

95-2040015

SENSIND

PAGE :

1

SECRET

FRP:

STAFF

CONE: C/OCC

INFO: C/ORMS, CTC/ IEB, CTC/IFC,

CTCARCHIVE, EUR/LGI,

EUR/SA, LIMITO, MDSX,

OCC/OSG, ODPD, FILE, C/PCS (2/P)

95 2040015

ASP

PAGE 001

TOT: 1922102 OCT 95

DIRECTOR 493642

SEC

STAFF

TO :

R

•E T

1922102 DIRECTOR 493642

PRIORITY

FROM :

LIMIT CHIEF/OCC INFO OCC/OSG, CHIEF/PCS, C/EUR/SA, EUR/LGL,

OGC/OSD, OGC/OFLD

SLUGS :

WNINTEL

SUBJECT:

REQUEST FOR STATION ASSISTANCE

REF: NONE

TEXT :

1 I.

WHO

- ACTION REQUIRED: REQUESI STATION CONTACT FORMER EMPLOYEE

RETIRED-UNDER COVER AND RESIDES

2.

BASED ON OUR COMPLIANCE WITH PRESIDENT<JFK ASSASSINATION>

RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992,

INCORDS ERINE INFORMATION INCIDENE LENN TO SEE:

' ASSISTANCE

TEAR

LINE

OCTOBER 6, 1995

DEAR COLLEAGUE :

PLEASE BE AWARE THAT YOUR NAME APPEARS IN DOCUMENTS THAT ARE

BEING REVIEWED FOR RELEASE TO THE PUBLIC UNDER PUBLIC LAW 102-526

*OF 26 OCTOBER 1992, THE PRESIDENT< JOHN>F. < KENNEDY ASSASSINATION>

RECORDS COLLECTION

ACT OF 1992.

THIS MANDATES THE PUBLIC RELEASE

OF ALL INFORMATION IN THESE DOCUMENTS, INCLUDING YOUR NAME WHERE

IT APPEARS, UNLESS THE ORIGINATING AGENCY CAN PROVE BY CLEAR AND

CONVINCING EVIDENCE TO A PRESIDENTIALLY-APPOINTED BOARD THAT ONE

OR MORE LIMITED EXCEPTIONS APPLY.

EVEN THEN, THE RELEASE OF THE

INFORMATION MAY ONLY BE POSTPONED FOR NO MORE THAN 25 YEARS.

THE

ACT IS VERY PRO-RELEASE AND REQUIRES A BALANCING OF THE PUBLIC

INTEREST.

UNDER THE BOARD'S INTERPRETATION OF THE ACT, YOUR NAME CANNOT

BE REDACTED FROM THE DOCUMENTS TO BE RELEASED UNLESS WE CAN

PROVIDE EVIDENCE THAT THIS RELEASE WOULD POSE A CREDIBLE THREAT TO

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

CMHENO3 95-2040015

CSENSIND?

YOU PERSONALLY, YOUR FAMILY, OR ANY SENSITIVE ACTIVITY OR

PERSON(S) YOU MAY HAVE BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH IN THE PAST.

IF YOU

BEL EVE HAI ANY CE THESE CONCORDS WOULD BE RAISED FROM •HE FUELIC

RELEASE OF YOUR NAME, PLEASE CONTACT

YOU WILL NEED IO PROVIDE THE PERTINENT DETAILS

SO THAT A COMPELLING CASE CAN BE PRESENTED TO THE BOARD.

BOARD ORDERS THE RELEASE OF YOUR NAME, ITS RULING CAN BE REVERSED

ONLY BY THE PRESIDENT.

BECAUSE THE BOARD MUST COVER HUNDREDS OF

THOUSANDS OF DOCUMENTS IN THE NEXT COUPLE OF YEARS, IT WILL BE

CONSIDERING DOCUMENTS AT AN ACCELERATING PACE AND WE CANNOT

PROJECT WHEN IT MAY REVIEW A DOCUMENT CONTAINING YOUR NAME.

THEREFORE, PLEASE CONTACT ME AS SOON AS POSSIBLE IF APPROPRIATE.

SINCERELY,

(SIGNED

PAGE:

2

- TEAR

LINE

BuT FILE:

0489932

END OF MESSAGE

785-120-034.

DECE OADR DRY COV 2+871

1, 37076) ; AUTH:

_OGC/OFIDE

INFO: CHIEF/PCS OCC/OSE L

REL: C/EUR/SA

SECRET

COORD:

OGC/OSD

J. CL.BY A

SECRET

---

