# 104-10239-10021

## Page 1

104-1023-10021.

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

2 March 1665

# 11/6+65-88

il-2506

MESTORANCUM NOK:

SUBJECT

:

chlef, wll/1

General: AMWUG/l Jebriefing Tiepurt $287

•1. ja 3 tobruary 1985, AMiUG/I was shown coples of ?4

several ducuriente retrioved (rau tho trash al the Cuban EmbResy

In lexico by riexico Clly itatlau J& those shown lo AMMÚG/1,

the attached were luo only ones identifiable tu hiai as correspondenco

pertaininz to the LGI (Directorto ¿eneral da Inteligencia).

2. AslilUe/l pointed out tise lullowing itenis of slanillcance

In relcrence to the attached correspondence:

A. The naure "AuDENTO written in pes in the upper

Ilsht hand corner probably refers to the "ALBERTO".

of the Ln saction us the liL

3. The namie in the upper fliht hand corner indlcates

the parson to thou the reply should be diracted.

C. The name "FETIRU' written in the upper rlight hand

corner rodors to Jose illuel rich faruaadar. who was

assigned to the Cuian tabassy In Mexico,

D.

The sigratura "PADLO" Indicates it Is correspondence

frum Cuba to sexico.

5. Thero docunients vero forwardod as attachmenta to

HMLViA-¿5052, dated 25 Vecember 15i4

Attachments: Tranelation of traguients

Distribution:

2- 111/1, #/att

1- AH/C/ESEC, M/o att

2- ANNUG/1, w/atts

1-siary/Beraice, w/atte

1- Lois, w/atts

2-11 (19-5-1 and 201-726852 w/atts)

...

bon stotts -

C/1:1/0/110/2

-

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Attachurent 10 is. -2500

(l'aye No. 13)

20/ICI: Reminder for Euluglo:

1 am forwarding a cable

al the operallon

Rerolutionary,

Pablo

(Page 15)

S/NICL

Comrade Ferro_

several dayo ago we received a request from comrade

Euloglo with reforence to your need of a loau lo pay some debts,

which resulted frot: recent purchases made by you.

We are aware that your work requires certain conmodatles,

such an a presentable hourse, capable ol making persons, who"you

recelve, leel comfortable in the almosphere they are in

Now, you should have analyzed your econumic possibllitles

before incurring those debts. Il you had done so you would hare

realtzed that these were not within your reach (budget), lor

wich reason you would have turned to us, with the purpose al

finding a solution to that problesi.

rie are instructing coasrade Eulogio to maxe you a raasunablo

loan with which you can get out of your present dobts.

In the luture you should consult us and In particular preseat

a plan to comrade Eulogio, un any problem of that nature, # ti

he confidence that it will la sulved.

You should matie us a report juetllying the loan that you all

get to paj the deblo you have.

---

