104-10188-10052|

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH | —=*erer

errr)

a

ef of Station, Mexico City

oat :

Chidt, WE Divigton

(Q Rénewal of LIENVOY

Woul

j

Coy

‘L.. Project GIENVOY io due for. renewal on 1 February 1968.
d you please let’us have a renewal request by 1 January 1968.

for the LP,

3.

LIENVOY

program .¢xercise,

was. estimated at $57,000. in our recent FY 1968
so we must ask that you stay within this figure
If you will be needing replacements for equipment
ould it be possible to reallocate funds previously
budgeted for LISALAD and for “purchase of information" to cover
the cost of such procurement?..

Headquartera appreciates the carefully detailed renewals

Distribution:
2-COS/Mexico City

which you prepare on LIENVOY because they give such a good picture of
what thé project produces. Could you also include in the current
renewal a brief description of the center and the equipment and
ow the management of the daily routine is shared betwcen AREHART

and his Mexican colleagues?

“a

Theresa H. BACHARDY

SOT’
PATA MN AND WORT Sait arson:
BMMW-15880 1 Kovember 1967
Coreen) wane
SECRET 50-6-75/1
= aN

Perkins

Hrict HMB care T SHARES ME

FAIR Ae Ps



if a
DISPATCH

gop EhLoL Of Station, textco Clty

ae
. i

LTBIVOX See = a
Tero GURL ACF CHEECH 7

Project LISWOY vas approved, with tho following comment:

fs +:, “Fhoxe is 4 vonkness in the operation because of
ae Ato size. The throat of mere mmbers - transcribers, «

Lines tapped, reports produced, lecdu axploited ==

“Enefeases tha wathenatioal probability of compromtee.

The Station appears to be fully avare of this problem
end fo maintaining tight security discipline,”

No changes were made in the project and the approving period
, 40 1 February 1967 through 31 January 1968.

THB

Theresa H. BACHARDY

Distribution:
2 - Cod, Mexico City

‘CRIS REFERENCE TO OSPATCH SrMBOL ARO WUWGER

RELEASING

‘OFFICE FMB

TGR SONATOR
cfd :

a
WE 53 use erevoua eorion. taot i Pp i € p A ¥ c rT}



LIENVOY

Lovee : Loe LoL ren

Sinton want or

re 196 7=68 One

ae tase ornvere oped FP wre

biabiiahe Charlotte Bustos-Videta | 24 Jan 67
woo 40. Tonner Te rereee 5
3B 1103 ngs j'" gat 6954

BREEEELLIEY CONCURRENCES OF DIVISIONS
ORGANEZAT LONAL TYPED NAME (

tenature)

- (00 NOT USE
In cose ou THIS SPACE

7258: | t/2s

c/wi/)

C/WH/BSF
C/KH/SS
C/WH/EI ‘Thomas Polgar

WH/EXO Donald C.

C/WHD

TS,

L__MEMO_ATTAGHE
ars lear’ IEMO_ATTACHED,
wo. [ves [no] oate

TSO
FiStaff__s/| DAO 3/24 a EYES
ClStait _fs/Frank W, Hughes 2102/27

4 asa Eee Eran
emesis Bary face : Yh, Yu |

APPROVAL

=y reaia0 wer Tes ae Te | een Torn
1 Feb 67 31 Jan 68 357,100.00 [$34,630.00
APPROWING AUTHORITY. SIGHATURE [pate iia

jee Maré

A/DDP

UK ane teen

apt mae SECRET



MPS/BG/FI
28 Mar 67

PROJECT BRIEFING :
PROJECT: LIENVOY ; WH = Mexico
ACTION : ADD/P approval of renewal 1 Feb 67 = 31 Jan 68

PURPOSE: | Project supports a joint CIA-Mexican Government telephone
tap unit and a non-official liaison sre ed with

PROGRESS: During. the past year covered a total of 30 telephone lines
simultaneously providing 8, 644 reels of raw take, Of the 30
lines, at least 15 of them are exclusively for Station targets
and the remaining targets are chosen by the Mexican authorities
but are usually of interest to the Station. Station targels include
the Guban Embassy, the Soviet Embassy, Czech Embassy,
Polish Embassy and the New China News Agency.

FI/INT files contain 107 positive intelligence reports produced
during the review period, This production, although unavoidably
uneven in quality and coverage, included a considerable amount
of useful information relevant to priority needs of the community,
LIENVOY coverage of Cuban and Soviet installations has been

of particular usefulness as a check on Statlon operations, A

act of voice samples of Soviet officials has been collected which
assists the identification of unidentified speakers elsewhere,

Tho channel vstablished {

and Chester D, DAINOLD {py ana in consequence

operation between the Government of Mexico and the U.S,
Government and CIA in particular, p

FUNDS : $57,100 $22,470 in FY 67 $34, 630 in FY 68

Programmed for $50,000, FY 67

Salaries and Xmas bonus $38, 816
Safehouse rental and utilities 3,900
Contingency for new agents or severance pay 2, 284
LISALAD (mail intercept) expenses 1,800
Ops expenses 7, 800

2,500

Supplies and equipment



PREVIOUS

APPROVALS: 4 Feb 66 = 31 Jan 67 $55, 698
1 Feb 65 = 31 Jan 66 47, 468
1 Feb 64 = 31 Jan 65 26,538
1 Feb 63 ~ 31 Jan 64 70, 068
1 Feb 62 = 31 Jan 63 _ 43,240
1 Feb 59 = 31 Jan“60- é 163, 537
STAFF

COMMENTS: Ft anid CI Staffs concur in renewal,

FISTAFF: Observes that there is a weakness In the
operation because of its size, The threat of mere numbers-=
transcribers, lines tapped, reports produced, leads ¢x-
_ploited--inereases the mathematical probability of compro-
vise, The Station appears to be fully aware of this problem
and ig maintaining tight security discipline,

MPS/BG/FLEBN:ehb
ce: -FI/OPS; C1/OPS; Vit. Mat. Projects



f project LIENVOY. ‘the
Yebruary 1:67 to 32
ovt expenses

iD cost $7,100 Lez

ch-spoaicdag
tuo ot!
project, providiag
Mae etal a6
tray

byanglition ility.
and the Gleric

ole over
years but tis as reports
GB audio opershi aye f the 2
u g interest us
well ns thes.

Positive

lisence
tacked FI/E

jutslligences



aed: CG abneeer
oaie

o)

(sal
“4



ea SECRET

Project LIENVOY Renewal Period 1 February 1987 - 31 January 1963

. Comments and Recommendations (To ve forwarded to the Division)

1, Our files contain 107 positive intelligence reports pred
or in part by LIENVOY and disseminated in the period 1 Febru:
January 1967, Over half of this production (60 reports) dealt wi
activities of Mexican Communists and other leftists. Included we:
reports which provided useful information on the unrest at the National
Autonomous University (UNAM) and other universities. As our recent
study of reporting on Mexico indicates, student unrest has been a
of high interest to the community. Also included were 13 dissem
which contributed to the station's coverage, hi 'y praised by all
of leftist activities in connection with President Johnson's visit.
30 reports in this group, primarily ing EC:
varied considerably in quality but in appeares
value in relation to customer needs.

2. The disseminated production from forei
was relatively meager. There were 9 reports on relations with
mostly on cultural programs; 3 reports on commerce:
Czechoslovakia and Foland; 7 reports concerned é
on Chicom (NCNA) activities in Mexico. With the possible excen!
information on Mezican~Bloc trade -- a subject of much interest to ORR --
the LIENVOY coverage of official Com:
positive intelligence of any great significance.
tion on foreign subversive efforts against Mezico, for which custoz
expressed an urgent need.

3. The rest of the production for the period included th
9 reports concerning Guatemalan exile activity, waich appearai to te of
value; 9 reports on activities of the press secretary of the Pres:
contributed to coverage of the government's pl i
on which the coramunity has a high pr‘
report concerning initiatives for a Vi
as an Intelligence Information Special Report to the

little interest to customers.

SECRET


a

intelligence production as a whole,

lity and coverage, included a considerable
ant to priority needs of the community.
itself would hardly justify the total cost
substantial portion of the cost is warranted
of positive information, Consequently

useful info:
dissemina:

Chief, FI/INT/RE



‘fooon0

SECRET

~ MEMORANDUM, FOR: Deputy Director for Plans
= : * “susyecr © : Renewal of the LIENVOY Project

15... Renéwal is requested of the LIENVOY Project
: for thé period 1 February 1967 through 31 January
= . : 1968 for a total of $57,100, with $22,470 for FY
- 1967 and $34,630 for FY 1968, The LIENVOY Project
was included in the 1967 Operational Program for_
$50,000, The additional funds required for FY
1967 are available within WH Division.

2. The LIENVOY Project covers both access to
high level Mexican Government officials,
| and a joint telephone tap operation

3, The phone taps produce FI, CE, and operational
support information, According to Headquarters
records, during the period 1 February through 31
December 1966, LIENVOY was the source of ninety-eight
positive intelligence reports, seventy-nine of which
were disseminated. These reports covered the follow-
ing general Subject categories: Sovict Embassy
activities in Mexico, Mexican Communist Party activi-
ties, Communist front activities, the activities of
the Chicom representatives in Mexico, and the
activities of various extremist groups. Included in
this reporting was that prior te and during President
Johnson's trip to Mexico City in April 1966, The
Station's reporting on this trip, which included
LIENVOY, was highly praised by the customers. LIENVOY
also provided some good coverage during the trouble
at the National Autonomous University (UN, in the
spring and useful information during disturbances at
some of the other universities. The remainder of the
LIENVOY coverage couid be considered of medium-level
interest and value.” During the same period, LIENVOY



|
|

ee SECRET

provided inforzation for ten CE disseminations to
the FBI ‘on Americans in contact with the Sovict
and Cuban Embassies in Mexico.

4. LIENVOY, coverage, particularly of the Cuban
and Sovict installations, was useful as a check on
the Station's operations. It furnished information
gents directed against the Soviets, for
and,on several agents in contact with the

Cuban Embassy,” LIENVOY also identificd leads into
the Soviets, some of whom’ have since been recruited
as access agents. (e.g. LIROAN and the LIROBBIN's)
Another example of the usefulness of LIENVOY is the
set of voice sanples of Soviet officials which has
been collected and which permits the identification
of unidentified speakers on other coverage. - For
example, recentiy in LIFEAT a man speaking with
Suzie PIERRE Charles, a Haitian Communist, was
identified as Vladimir Ivanovich SHPAKEVICH (KGB).
LIENVOY is also “the principal source of information
on the.travel of Sovicté within Mexico and abroad,
The. Station has a standing requirement for informing
the Office of the-Legal Attache in Mexico of all
{travel performed by Sovict officials within the
Republic of Mexico, and LIENVOY helps the Station

to fulfill this request.

5. LIFEAT. the unilateral telephone tap
operation, concentrates on individual Sovicts, Cubans,
Communists, and Americans who are of special WOFACT

CE interest.

6
LIENVOY permits direct contact vy tne

Chief of Station. While there is also a channel
through the LITEXPO Project, the
Station aré both careful to select the proper channel
which depends on whether there is an anticipated need
for the cooperation of the LITEMPO Ministry, or
whether the contac main a matter
of concern only to ecial
advisor. As can be renewal
request prepared by the Mexico City Station, the

cn

“SECRE!



ir SECRET “

-3-

+ principal use of the LIENVOY liaison channel during

has been in the political action field.
ributed to this effort
The

nan

to accept a Panamanian

Pe an to'study .the Mexican Political Party (PRI)
inthe hope that Panama might benefit by PRI experience
fn gaining political stability, Hopefully through the

the past year:

-bricfings held in Decemoer

“age of a controlled CIA agent, the Agency will also
‘benefit by ‘obtaining ‘intormation on the organization
Sand inner Workings of the PRI which has not been

available through other sources.
offered to. send an experienced educator to Panama to

review the situation at the University since DAINOLD
expressed concern about the problems gnawing at. the
University of Panama.

_zJ

fect ;LIENVOY channel to the Chief of Station to
ceptain advice -on personal and communications
security, and on the purchase of technical equipment.
The Station, on the other hand, has used this special
channel to pass ackyround informa~
tion on Soviets and subversives in Mexico on whom

the Mexicans’ expressed an interest, and against whom
we hoped the Mexicans would take some action. One
memorandum resulted»in the cancellation of a foreign
diplomatic assignment of a Mexican career diplomat
who is a suspect Soviet agent.

8, It is beli ie close personal
rapport established DAINOLD
and the Chief of Station has -contrivy tter

relations and closer cooperation between Mexico and
the U.S, Government and CIA in particuler. WH
Division recommends renewal of the LIENVOY Project.

L
Chicf
Western Hemisphere Division

te


woes

woe Oves Ore
CLASSIFIED NESSACE E oral ¢

chassery To FILC nO.
Saat TOT MOL
rien act, 10
vestecy D sic.

REPRODUCTION PRONIBITED

.
7

7
co Tet er

ni mtuve, SE S6,Aboe, #1, nr2.ninleee

it ie : Dd duit? 64588

SE CRE T 2499392 CITE MEXiCO CITY A496

DIRECTOR

I. UNDERSTAND THERE “CONCESN” aT Has avee “DROP” IN
PRODNCTION OF LIENVOY, FOLLOWING SuURMITIED FO® THE RECORD;
8) DURING 1955 POSITIVE DISSEM{NAT IONS NUMAERED 176 FAR TWELVE

MONT HS 4S REPORTED IN THE PROJECT RENEWAL.

: oy DURING 1965 POSITIVE DISSENS NUNSERED 122 FOR FLEVE!
REPEAT eleven MONTHS AS REPORTED IN THE PROJECT RENEWAL, aCTUAL
COUNT. HUMBES WAS LESS RECAYSE SEVER OL DAYS COVERAGE COMBINED :
INTO ONE REPORT TO MAKE IT MORE MEANINGFUL TO HQTRS RATHER

TS‘OF INFORMATION FOR SaKE OF LaRcER NUMBER

THAN REPORT ING
F DISSEMS,
2. THERE NaS BEEN NO DROP IN PRODUCTION SUT CHANSE IN REPORTING

TECHN LQUE WYICH RESULTED IN FEWE® NUvSES OF REPORTS, aLSO Dur ie 1965

THERGE DECIDED INCREASE [N VOLUME OF OPEPeT {ONAL aND CE DeTa
OF JONATHAN L. WEENING.

SOVIET, SLOC OFFICIALS THANKS TO PSs

SUGGEST DESK O8TAJ0 43SESSMENT OF VALUE THIS INFORMATION FROM cr ?
aPPROPEIATE SOVIET TLOCK DESK. | ly
= Lb
SECRET ral ve
StcHEn 1, ,

8T ; kh



‘ous: C. eustés/nao

fag

Kd

om

ware WH/L
Gr 3 3684

Gorernoy G HeruAN Yo

DAANCH

CONF vay ene RID COPY os. cin.
re ony TERE ARS HE RST rere Ree re
ies ™s; ECRET non aie q 7
: : 2.21 14 Z cmepREcTOR G6 2588
: Fi peminie
‘MEXICO CITY DIFos ‘at =a

REF MEXICO CITY 9741 (IN 65788)* rer
PASSIWG CASTELON LIENVOY Study RegvesTéeD
NO OBJECTION] PROVEN

¢

D STUDY FOR

STATION USE

ONLY. HOWEVER, HDQS IS PREPARING STERILE PUBLISHED VERSION
WHICH WILL Gol _//END OF NESSAGE//

* Requosts permission pass to cos Lima, sterile
copy of study on LIENVOY,

nee

1] ily y ee Fist / z 7

William V. Bro
C/WHD

Wi J. Kaufman
{ C/WI/L

N

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THG ISSUING OFFICE 15 PROHIBITED,

AUTMENTICATING

RELEASING OFFICER oo OFFICER

core no,



TreaicaTare

FIP A noe

_BISPATCH | frorie

Tae,

arto toa wits

1 icexine EQUI

Chief ‘of Station, Mextco city |-C- scar

waencr
Reneval of Project 1

ACTION AEGUIND. RODRONCES

,TENVOY

“References: ‘A, CSI-F No. 230-60 Annax B

B, WH Pield Menorandum No. 5-64, °17 March 1964

Attached 1a the LIENVOY Project Renewal subuitted for the
period '1 February 1967. through 31 January 1968 for a total of
US 57,100. It io extimated that 22,470 vill be pent in FY 1967
and the remaining 54,630 in FY 1968,

= eanaet
—

dhseods 6

Attachment:
Project Renewal (Original & 5)
Left hand side h/w
Right hand side U.S.C.

Distribution:
) 3+ Chiet/waD w/atts b/w and U.S.C.

ABI CR,
rom Protect,” erry)

Romoved

a ee
VT one

| 19 December 1966

‘CLASSINCATION ~ PHOS rie Nuun

SECR A T/Sims!  50-6-75/1

(CROSS REFERENCE TO.

fA



| ‘suontiome “Ry,
' can walle

REQUEST POR PROJECT RENEWAL “ae?

: f ‘a
. ig :
PROJECT LIENVOY. CASE Dye
: : Willard c. is

STATION: Moxtco City CHIE oP won ad (WER,
Willard C,

SiC ae

gs PD
yo Me 6S -e-$-7S/)/
Air (To HMMA 3403 seve 7)

de Agree fhe primed 3e7e3

%-¢-75/; :



SECRET getase—

\ PROJECT LIENVOY RENEMAL

“ “The ‘LIENVOY Project provides for a joint WOFACT-Mexican Goverment sponsored
telephone tap unit and fora non-official liaison relationship with access
to the: highest ranking goverment officials of Mexico, The tap unit

7 ~. provides direct. cupport necessary to cover targets and operational programs
cele y-\Mevied.on the Mexico Station vie thel | as vell as spot requests from
Headquarters end other Stations. This project also produces considerable
"positive: intelligence. ;

Be CHANGES

(1) ste LIENVOY Project was created in late 1953 and put into operation in early
1959 at tho request of LITENSOR who appointed LIELBGANT as his special
assistant to work with Willard C. CURTIS in the supervision and administration

. _ of the project. In mid-1964 1t became evident that LIRAMA would replace
LITENSOR in December 1964, (LIRAMA sas then LITEMPO-2 and a clandestine
Liaison contact with Willard C. CURTIS under the LITEMPO Project but was not
Inovledgeable of the CURDIS/LIELEUANT/LITENSOR relationship in Project
LIENVOY,)- On 10 August-1964 LIRAMA net with CURTIS and LILLEGANT and advised
the: that LITENSOR bad ‘briefed him on the LIENVOY Project in detail and
that it should be continued with the-same personnel and the same manner of
“operation, Both LIELEGANT énd LIENVOY-2 vere given nowinal positions on
LIRAMA's staff vith cover for daily contact with LIRAMA, Government
credentials vere aleo provided for Arnold P. AREHART (Staff Agent) as well
as the local agento working in the LP, Since March 1960, the LP has remained
in the same location, Inside the front doorvay a credential, provided by
LIRAMA, prohibits éntry to anyone without ‘special permission obtained from

(2) Agents

Por information of reviewing officials not familier with this Project,
there is enclosed as Attachment-1, a chart listing current LIENVOY targets
as Vell-as the functions of each agent. Two changes during the past project
year cah be noted: (a) LIENVOY-8-was rehired as a monitor by LIENVOY-2

at the request of LIRAMA and with the egreement of CURTIS. The request was
also made for reactivation of nis Operational Approval by the Station: and
(bv) LIENVOY-19 was given training Li July 1966 in flaps and seals and set
up the LISALAD unit at the request <f LIRAMA.

Staff Agent Arnold ?, AREHART hes been with the project for séven years.
His duties inside the LP are to maintain the technical equipuent anc
protect WOFACT interest by observing activities of locel agents and preventing
negligent breakege or loss from theft. There has been no major mechanical

i breakdown during the.past project year. ARHHART also is there to see that
WOFACT gets copies of all transcripts and gets reels of all conversations



c.

desired. The equipment in this LP bas run over thirty-five thousand hours
Since installation ‘and is still in excellent. condition, due to the excellent

care and maintenance by AREHART.

INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTI:

The LIENVOY Project: has proved a valuable source for Positive intelligence
‘on Mextean political Mgures on Coummisa and on activities of foreign
Communists “in Maxico' or transitting Mexico. In addition, this project
continues to satisfy-the “Station's -support requirenents for operational
data and ‘provides sccess to’ the bighest’ echelons of the Mexican Government.

(1) FE anformaticn.. From 1 January 1966 through 50 November 1966, this
Project was thé source of 122 positive reports. The Soneral subject
cstogories within vhich these reports fall ai related to objectives of the
most recent RMD (MET-6852, dated 20 June 1966) are:

| Priority A. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and Priority 3, 1, 2, ard 4,
Cuban Bnbassy Activities in Mexico
Soviet Eubassy Activities in Mexico
Coumunist Party of Nexieo (PCY) Activities in Mexteo
Communist Front, Activities (Novintento Liberneion Nacional « MLN)
in Mexico
Activities of axtromists on the Key Subversive Watchlist Program
Activity of the Mexican Governzent in foreign and internal affairs
Activities of Communist China representatives in Mexico

(2) CI/CE information, In addition to the general subject categories
of FI interest, the LIENVOY Project continues to fulfil » standing re-
quirewent to provide CI/CE data on the following selected targets: -

Cuban Enbassy - six lines
Soviet Embassy - five lines

Chinese Comnmist New Agency (NCNA) = one linge
Czech Enbassy - tvo lines

Polish Eabassy - tvo lines

Of the above coverage, neither the Czech nor the Polish Embassy targets
are listed as a priority in the latest Related Mission Directive. They
are covered for possible leads into the Soviet Bubassy intelligence

activity.

(3) LISALAD. ‘This consists of 6 ohe-man intercept center run by LIENVOY-19
under the general suparvision of LISLOGANT and LIENVOY-2 with targets
selected by both the Station and LIRA, It began functioning in August
1905 and covered five addresses used by the Commmist Party of Mexico,
During the pertod thrvugh November 1965 this activity produced a large
Volume of fairly lov-level information about PCM vhich vas of value for



De

3s

4 . since the Station does not have enough personnel to
Proceas all the paper it éan produces, Further, it ohould be noted that
UIKAYAK-2 18 handling the Station requirenents sattofactorily at thie tlae.

(1) During the past year (2. Jawary 1966 through 30 November 1966) the
LIENVOY Project: covered a total of 30 (thirty) targeta simultaneously
which'.provided 3,644 reels of rav take. This was Procesacd into 18,766
Pages of trenseripte (of this asiount actual count by LIENVOY processors
was. 1h,266 pages, en-estimate by tho outeide Czech translator was 1,500
Fageo,. the Russian translator 2,000 pages, and the Polich translator 1,000
poses). Biclosed as attachnent mumbor 2 is tho 1966 Work Load Log for
LIENVOY by worth and target. Since this includes only. the work dono inoide
the LP, total figures vary. according to additional vork done by other
Station (unilateral) agents. -

(2) -(a) Mexican Targets. Of the 30 Lines covered, at-least 15 of then
are alvays exclusively for WOFACT, the remaining targets are selected by
LIRAMA but are also of definite interest to WOFACT as sources of positive
and Ck/CI intelligence... The Mexican targets covered during the past project
‘year wore:

20 5018 Lazaro Cardenas del Rio
(pro-Commnist, anti-WOLADY ox President of Mexico)

38-00 16 Luis Mactes Cardone
(Secretary General for Sociel Action and
International Affairs, Instituto Nactonal de la
Juventud Mexicanos, youth activist in CTM)

23 €5 25 Alonso Aguilar Monteverde
(Mexican Marxist intellectual, head of the MLN -
Moviaiento Liberacion Nacional, leader of Mexican
Peace groups and other Communist fronts)

461270 Vicente Lombardo Toledano
. (Mexican Marxist labor leader)

35 59 62 Union Nacional Sinorquteta
(Rightist Catholic group)

45 59 52 David Alfaro Siquetros
(painter and Coumunist rabble rouser)

35 36 52 Politica
(bi-weekly Marxist, anti-WOLADY, pro-Cuba magazine)



Bea

4315 06
43 5h oh
29 70 64
~ 10 29 69

1b 14 61

26 77 85

23 86°79
35 35 13
23 8 19

1k 6 69

Prensa Latina
(Castro Cuban subsidized Press Agency)

Enrique Gonzalez Patrers |

AS aes intellectual and member oxocutive committee
Victor Rico Galan :

(Anti-WOLADY, preCastro, Srantoh naturalized Nexican
Communist journalist)

Jorge Loper Tamayo Castillejos
(Mexican Marxist intellectual, poace coumittee leader
and contact of G:tan Babassy)

Moviatento de Liberacion Nacional (MLN)
(Anti-WOLADY, pro-Cuba Ccemmnist’ front group)

Cesar Tejeda
(Guatemalan exile)!

Dominican Republic Ssbassy
(For Leads into palitical activities of Doainicans

residing in Mexico)

Dr, Rolando Collads Anica
(Quatemnlan exile) ©

Sociedad Amigos de Chino
(Communist Chinese frienishtp society)

Mario Monteforte Sclede
(Guatemalan exile)

Revista Suceson Pura Todos
{Rapidly becoming the Yoremst political weekly in Naxico,

Owner and DirectarGensml Oustavo Alatriote increased the
sales end popilarity of SUCSSOS in sumer of 1960 by taking
@ sharp tum to left in masaztne's content. In Septeuber,

it featured a lengthy ani praise-filled Interview of Mdal
Castro Ruz. Next vas a.special issue on freedes of the
Catholic Chureh in Gute. In early December it restured a
longthy interview cf leating Venezuelan guerrillas expounding
the Line that the guerrillas are stronger than ever, have
suffered no sericus setoacks and aro fighting a Just cause.)

18.62 09 Lic Sesto Capoano

(Guatemalan exile)



-5-

4é.20°06" Dr. Lufa Quintanitlia
(Mexican leftist intollectual who has travelled and is
Planning further travel to Hanoi, North Viet Nam.)

“ The reals from the above targets. are not all transcribed coupletoly.

LIBWOY conitore extract significant conversations and include thea in a
daily “reaumen”,the original of’ viich is‘read datly by LIRAMA and a copy
of which 1s delivered each morning to the Mexico Station. The reela are
Tetained for about ten days for fuller.tranacripte if requested by LIRAMA
or by toe Mexico-Station. The. "resumen" is typed in four copies at the
end of ‘éach day (covering covefsations which occurred that day). On the
following worning by 0600 hours,-"one copy is handéarried by LILNVOY-2 to
LIRAMA, “At the came tine, Artiold F, AR:HART dolivers a copy to Robert B.
RIGGS for delivery to Willard C. CURTIS. A third copy is delivered to
LIELEGAN? by LIENVOY-2. Tne fourth copy to retained in a chronological
file in the intercept center. .

(v) “Woract Targets. ‘The WOPACT targets have been Limited mainly to

CI/CE requirements. These include the Cuban Rubassy, Soviet Enbasay,
Czech Extassy, Polish Enbassy, and the Coumunist Chinese News Agency
(NCA), " Toere follove selectéd significant examples of tho LIENVOY product
from each of these targets with a Station appraisal of its effectiveness.

1. Cuban Embassy. The six Lines covered are:

37 ‘The Ambassador's private telephone
95 The Chancery
3 26 Tho Chancery ‘
1k Tho Commercial Office
47. The Consulate
25 07 77 Elena Vasquez Gomez *

<The Chancery and Consulate lines regularly identify foreigners in
Mexico vho cantact the Cuban Snbasey. Reels are usually transcribed
within one day of the conversation; however, if the caller happens

to be a U.S. citizen, the transcripts are prepared imnodiately which
frequently perwits the Station to arrange for unilateral surveillance and
identification of the persons involved, The Commercial Office coverage
provides information oa Cuten Comercial ectivities in Mexico ond
identification of firms doing business with Cuba. The Elena Vasquez
Gonez target was connected to support the sensitive AMROD operatton,

The AMROD Headquarters Case Officer, Thomas 0, URQUHART (ps) visits
Mexico on temporary duty in ccrnection with this operation, His
comments on this project are:



+ The take Mn LER! contimes to be of primo tactical value to
the conduet cf -such operations as ANKOD and JMROD, It enaties ua to
know how to tlae our various moves, gives us the opportusity to know

, Yhere’ the opposttion. figurea are and gives us the general seekground
“we need to manage these operations properly, So importait ta this
coverage deeac: that.carbons of the prisary targets covere: for JMROD
and -AMROD aro regularly ‘forvarded to Headquarters at Hesdsaarters

. Pequest eo that it to’ possible to keep in touch with detasis of de-
Yelopents ip Mexico: on'the tactical level. On the stratesic level,

LIENVOY covarsge ‘contimiés to provide one of tho largest msssea of

maneuvér of necessary fact for use not only in AMROD/JMROD yut also

in other operaticas of a statler nature mounted against tangets cuteide

Nexico from base points often outside Mexico as voll,

The ox lines against the Cuban target are fully transcribed by ‘LIENVOY
transcribers ani delivered by Arnold F, AREHART to Robert %, RIGGS

gach morning. Lengthy conversations sonetimes require adaictonal tine
for transcription, A carbon copy of each transcription is scuched
Vookly to Healduarters for use cf M¥/C, ‘The original 19 recained by

the Hoxtco Station. “A third copy is retained in the intereest conter
chronological files. . LIRAMA does not read thesa transerirts unless

somo significant item appears tn the "resumen" vbich causes Rin to ask
to see a fuller transcript or to Listen to the tape. Coverage of the
Cuban tnbassy target ylolds @ good picture of daily activities, re-
sidenceo, personal habits end weaknesses of Cuban officia? >ersonnel

in Mexico, This 4s used by Station Case Officers In select: of targets
for recruitment am in cheezing cx activities of agents aires

cruited who. sre working {haide the target or vho are in comtest with
Cuban officials. In Juty 19€6 LITSKPO sources reported detention by
Nexiean police of a Cuban diplomat in connection vith emeciing of
onus through Nexico to Guatemalan guerrillas. Tho Cuban Amnessy as
well a3 Mexican Govertment reaction was conitored through this

coverages

2. Soviet Rrbassve The Soviet Governzent has over fifty ctictals
Permanently stationed.in Mexico (the larsest Core{gn embaser in Mextea
except for the U.S. Exbacsy), Thirt ‘@ of these Soviets {70
Percent of the staff) aro tntellizence officers. The five ines under
LIENVOY previde details cn the activities of most of these Svriets.
These Lines are:

15 6055 Soviet Consulnte and Chancery. This Line ts uss ty flfteen
krewn or sugsect KGR or-GRU officers. It {s atso used
foreleners in Mexico attempting to aake cazact vita

the Soviets. When identifying leads appear ani the
cemtacts suzzest clandestine meetings, the Station

artenges for un{latersl surveillance and has iiestified
wary contacts in this manner,



‘oviet Chancery, Thts lino fe used primarily by the
Ambacsador and provides wore tnfurmation on protesnL
contacts than ldads of intelligence interest. However,
ez it gives the Station « pictur: of the personalities
being cultivated ty Soviet diplomts and of Moxiesr
na WhO are seeking ccntact with the Soviets.

15 61 55 -

15 61 OT. Soviet Comercial office, Tha Comercial Office ts used

ay by both the KUB and GPU as cover anl of the eight yresant
staffers, seven are considered to ta intelligence officers.
The volume of trade betwcen Mexico’ and the USSR still’
does not. justify a commercial staff of this size. The

< Mexico Station has had oome success in running double
dgents against these officers. LIENVOY provides a
helpful check on these casoa, The take from LIENVOY

* also identifies intelligence officera as escorts for
trade, scientific, comssrcial and tourist delegations
vho continue to travel between tho USGR and. Mexico,
either on visits to Mexico or to and-from other Letina
American countries. Once these groups arrive in vezico,
thotr movenienta usually become known through LIENYGY.

15 12 6h Soviet Films Office. This leads into the residence and
office of the:distributor for Soviet Commercial Piias in
Mexico who is a euspect intelligence officer, There |
continue to be a number of calla suggesting clandestine
. contact with Central Americana, When identifications
7 are aade, the appropriate WOVACT Central American étation

io notified immediately.

15 69 87 Soviet Military Attache. This line is seldom used by
anyone. Tbe cilitary staff presently consists of
(5) GRU colonels. and (3) civilian GRU officers, It
continues to be the lino uued by Americans, particularly

servicemen trying to maze contact with the Soviets.

As reported. previously, the Soviet information 1s transcribed by the
LIENVOY transcribers in the: same way as the Cuban traffic except tuat
the reels also contain @ considerable volume of Russian language cou-
versations. This requires that the reels be picked up daily and de
livered to an outside (unilsteral) translator (Starf Azent Douglas J.
PIENGLASS) who translates ‘the Russian conversations into Pglish.

From these transcripts it.is aprarent that the Soviete are not avere
that their conversations in Russian are being overheard and understood.
These daily exchanges between the Soviets and their wives (who also vork
in the Embassy) provide a goo’ picture of personal babits, grievances,
marriege relationships, and wesmesses of targets of interest to #GPACT.



t
j

X+ Two lines in tho Chancery (45 30 91 and 45 30 12)

ty LIENVOY. Reels fron these tarzate are delivered daily
by AREMART to RIUGS who delivers them to the EX Case Officer vho
arranges for transcriptions and translations to be done by David B.
SCHLAGHTER, ‘field contract agent. Tue agont aluo prepares a monthly
summary of information on the activities of Czech officials in Mexico.
‘Tals tmbassy Bas a staff of thirty-four ($4) officials of whom (8)
eight. are’ known-or suspect intelligence officers. LIENVOY has provided
the creat bulk of oporntional intelligences on thie Subassy, ite personnel
and activities in Mexico,

4. “Polish Ekbassy. The tvo lines coverod are (11 43/52) in the
Chancery and (25 52 38)"which is the private: lino of the Folish Commercial

“Coundelor. These reels are delivered daily by ARKHART to RIGGS who

delivers thez to the Soviet Bloc case officer who arranges for trane-
lations ‘and transcriptions to be done by Louise B, DRAGASIC (ps), a
contract employee vho prepares a monthly summary of information obtained
frem this coverase, This Embassy has a otaff of fifteen (15) officials

of vhom eight (S) aré know or suspect Intelligence officers, LIENVOY
has provided a cciisiderable amount 6f operational intelligence on this
REubassy and their Commerical Office in Mexico, In addition to personality
data, thie source provides a valuatle check on access agents in contact
with Polish officials.’ Most of the leada to access agents in this

field have originsted with the LIENVOY Project.

Se Communist Chica News Agency (NCNA), Until 4 November 1966 there

were three representatives of the Communint China News Agency in Mexico.
During the project year, LUENVOY covered this target as a parallel to

& sensitive ‘audio operation. Cn 4 Novester 19€6 the three nowspapermen
packed up ani lert Mexico for Havana, Cuba, closing down ther house and
otfice in Mexicc. A cold approach vas made prior to their departure,

by a Headquarters TiYer. but was not successful.

. The Mexico Statica Case Officers responsible for established PI and

CI/C3 programs coatinue to feel that LIENVOY makes a very necessary
Antelligence support contribution. Tho facilities of this project,

due to ‘centralized tapping and transcribing, continue to produce three
‘tines the voluke of raw audio and finished intelligence as LIFZAT at
approxisately che half the cost. As a semi-official liaison tap
operation, LIEXVCY continues to ve able to place a tap on any phone
desired whereas LIFEAT as a unilateral operation, does not always have
imzediate access to a desired target, Tho continued success of Statlon
Mexico's operational program against the Cuban, Sovist and Soviet
Satellite installations and personnel in Mexico ts largely attributable
to the continous and thorough coverage of. these targets by this project.
Chiet of Station, Mexico, recommends that the project be renewed for
another year as an essential collection and support operation for the

Mexico Station,



gE

PF

PROBLEM3 :

There have been no sientficant security, cover, control, or ltaison
Problezo during the project year. fees

LIAISON
This Project encoupasges an unofficial liaison relationship vith high-

level Mextear government officials and contributes to the friendly attitudes

of these officials toward LNpose Some exarples of this lfaison are:
° wey

1. Prior to a trip to Central Aserica in early Janumry 1966, LIRAMA vas
briefed by Chester xico on 20 December 1965, In

2. In March 1966 LIRAMA vie LIENVOY-2 aeked the Station fer assistance
in menstoring the activities of Victor AICO Galan who vas subsequently,
arrested and 1s being held by Maxican Goverment authorities. for
various subversive activities.

3+ On 12 Merch 1966 CURTIS visited LIRAMA to sive him @ birthday gift-and
8 letter from Chester D, DAINOLD thanking Lin for @ oilver tray sent:
a9 a-gift by LIRAMA. :

4. On 25 April 1966, CURTIS called on the Chief of LIRAMA's security:
Suard at the request of LIRAMA. They asked for NOPACT guidance in
Providing selected security and commnicattons equipment. This
fauipeent vas obtained through WOPACT facilities bar Paid for by
LIRAMA. WOFACT technicians came to Nexico in becesten 1966 to supervise

dts installation and provide training for its use.

5+ During April 1966, CURTIS sav LIELAGANT on severnd ‘occasions and
obtained reactions of LIRAMA to tae student strike at the UNAM,

6. CURTIS and LIELEGANT met vith LIKAMA on 16 June 1966 at LIRAMA's
reavest to discuss LISALAD, a postal intercept unit eet up at the request
of ETPHA. Walter W. CORNEURY care to Mexico the first. Week in July
1966 to train the agent (utiewoy-19),

7 On 30 June 1966, CURTIS met with LIELBOANT to get his views on LIRAMA's
epproval of sending a Mexican to North Viet Naa on “an inforgation
Collecting" atssion, n.11 July 1966 CURTIS sav LIRAMA and received,
his approval for such an operation.

6 on 22 July 1966, LIRAMA via LIENVoy~2 requested Station traces on
Soviet officials in Mexico suspected by thea of conducting espionage
activities against the Mexican Government.



a.

He

I

9.-5In July 1966, LIRAMA asked for CURTIS’ asaistance in obtaining

‘cartographic studies of Mexico.
Deceaber 1966.

These were given to LIRAMA in

10, CURTIS wet, with LIRAMA’on 1h September 1966 and discussed the physical
condition'of LITENSOR, details of which vere reported by cable to

Headquarters:

1, « In late Septeaber 1966, ‘in response to a request from LIRAMA,
“Headquarters technicians conducted e security survey of the private
telephonic facilities used "by. LIRAMA,

12. Chester DAINOLD and Willard C. CURTIS met with LIRAMA on 16 Deceabor
1966 and DATNOLD briefed hia on stucent reform and university programs;
also, an world problems. A record of this briefing by DAINOLD has been
sent to Headquarters. Stefan LABANON came with DAINOLD and acted ss

interpreter.

13. In addition to the above, selected intelligence approved by Headquerters

is regularly passed to LIRAMA.

14, Daring the visit of GPLOGIC to Mexico, LIENVOY assets vorked el

With the Station, providing all assistance requested, Their role vas
a significant factor in making this visit a success (security-wise).

INTER-AGENCY COORDINATION.

No formal coordination 1s required in this Project. Chief, LNPURE, Mexico,
is. the only LNPORT official in Nexico outside WOFACT-who is aware of this

Project éhd its provision for a special channel to LIRAMA, Chief, LAPURS,
was briefed by Headquarters prior to his arrival in Mexico City on. LIENVOY.

CURTIS advises Chief, LNPURE, of significant and pertinent subjecta which are
discussed in meetings between CURTIS and LIRAMA, LIRAMA does not know
‘that Chief, LNPURE, knows of LIENVOY or of CURTIS contacts with LIRAMA; he

continues to request ‘that (onone in LNGOLD kmov of either,

PLANS.

The Station plans to contime the intercept program without change for the
next project year. In view of LIRAMA's request for a postal intercept
asset connected with this project, this operation vill be kopt available
as an auxiliary unit, It is intended to contime the contacts with LIRAMA

and service to him.
FunDS,
2. Por the bast pertod.

The cost of the LIENVOY Project (paid by the Mexico Station exclusive
of Headquarters costs) from 1 February 1966 through 30 June’ 1966 was
approxizately US$ 17,000 and from 1 July 1966 through 31 Jamary 1967

another US$ 32,000.

eit

erare


ve

K.

she

2. Durtigtthe noxt Project_year,

During the period 1 February 1967 through 31 January 1968, an
estimated amount of US$ 57,100 will be required with US$ 22,470 to be

Spent in FY 67 and the remaining US$ 34,630 in FY 68,

3. Agent satarton, :
. FY 67 F¥ 68

LIENVOY-2 : 2,400.00 3,360.00
LIENVOY-» : 1,200.00 1,680.00
LIENVOY-5 2,520.00 2,129.00
LIENVOY-6 §00,00 2,120.00
LIENVOY-7 800,00 1,120.00
LIENVOY-8 1,200.00 1,680.00
LIENVOY-12. 1,200.00 1,680.00
LIEWoy-12 1,200,00 2,689,00
LOEWVOx-14 1,200.00 2,680.00
LIENVOY-25 400,00 560.00
LIENVOY-16 600.00 1,120.00
LIEWOY-18 (calary pata by LIELEDAND)
LIENVOY-19_ 2,200.00 1,680.00
English/Spanish Translator to be
hired 1,200.00 2,680.00
Christmas bonus: one month's pay
for 1967 pn 80
Contingency fund for new agentd or
= severance pay $50.00 1,334.00
Operational expenses, purchase of
information 2,000,00 2,800.00
Hecal purchase supplies/equipment 11000100 1,500.00
Safehouse rental 1,000.00 2,500.00
Safehouse electricity and other 600,00 - : 600,00
utilities
LISALAD Operational expenses 800.00 1,000.00
Entertainnent & gifts for Mexican
offictals 1,000,00 2,000.00
TOTAL $22,470.00 34,630.00
ANNEX,
None.
EMERGENCY CONDITIONS.

There has been no change in emergency conditions arrengements since the
last project renewal request in which they were reported.



-12-
OTHER,

WOPROP in'the reneval revtew for LIENVOY Project in 1966 coumented that

this project:.in their view vasa model for imitation by others, particularly

inthe area Of efficiént processing and oxploitation of rav take. On

CASTELON, (ps) arrived in Moxico for a briefing
Procedures for use in setting up

a-simlar installation ‘11 In addition to the Station briefing,

_ CASTELON was escorted through the LP late in the evening by Willard C. CURTIS
‘ond LIENVOY-2 #0 that-CASTELON could sce the equipment in operation as wall

cata aa-the type of files meintained in the LP, ;

ti

“penne ener


‘spor
a

[a
Lectin
=p

RUSA PAGES |
[ Pounce TAPS TAPES

ae TAPES 197 =
[CUBANA PAGES 514 a 4

ALN. GHINA TAPES a
AWN. CHINA PAGES [| 8] 5

DOMINCANOS TAPES

DGMINCANOS - PAGES
MISC ITEMS

OTHER TAPES USED eta
LS

epee fe]
61 154
613 [574 [589
aaaga
193 five [161 30
recta

OEIE

a Set a
[327 [361 ep bet per || +
spree



‘gjpoaoo

atl

Tsnfoy Prevect COST: U.S, 57,000,

\ : cae ; ‘STATION “ LIRAMA
Willard. C, Curt. [>
i Case Officer | ee Bt
H
— Robert B, Rigs
r ES Case Officer i___Case Officer

D. Schlageter Louise Drapasié Arnold Fy Arerart : D. Feinplass
Contract Agent . Contract Employee Staff Agent ‘> Staff Agent
Czech ol ae ' moo i Russian
LENNY -2 rE

Mexican Sipervisor
Field Apent |

TCT Al le ll nk hes

ae an i seescattiases isssdste oasssssSpopAnLlSRnRaEEaGNSeaiAA BOWES

MONITORS TRANSCRIBERS “WATCHMAN FILES
LIRNVCY-4 * LIENVOY-6 QURAN TAPES. LIENVOY-15 LIENVOY=14
LIENVOY=5 LTENVOY-7 QIBAN TATES
LJENVOY-11 LTENVOY-16 RUSSIAN TAPES (Spanish)

| LIENVOY=12

: LIRNVOY=8

TARGETS:

&
g
°
Bi
2

WOFACT
5 - Cuban Embassy (14 42 37, 25 07 95, 25 09 14 1 = Gen Cardenas (20 20 18)
11 26 47, 14 13 26) 1 - Prensa Latina (46 €0 15)
1 = Vazquez Gomes (25 07 77 . 1 = Galindo Ochoa (42 06 97)
_5 = Soviet Enbassy (15 60 55, 15 12 64, 15 61 55, 1 = Lic, Apudlar (23 85 25) :s
1s 69 87, 15 C1 C7 1 = Lie. Lembardo Toledano (46 12 70)
2 = Czech Embassy (45 30 91, 45 30 12) 1 = Alfaro Siqueiros (45 59. 52)
2 ~ Polish Embassy (11 43 52, 25 82 38) 1 = Politica (35 36 52)
1 = Lic, Gonzalez Pedrero (43 15 06)
-1 = Soctedad Amigos Con China (35 35 18)
1 - Mario Monteforte Toledo (23 86 79)
1 = Lic, Emesto Capoano (18 62 09)
1 - Revista Sucesos (14 66 69)
1 - Jorpe L. Tamayo (197064) |
1 = Yoviniento Liberacion Nacional (10-29-69)
1 - iais Culntanilla (43 20 06)

3 November 1966
MEXICO LF ist
go-G- 7

£5 0097



SECRET

Chief cf Station, Mexico City...

Crssxex mosect tenaval

TEE MRE UNE

Raferonce: MGW=-14552, 5 May 1966

‘The LIENVOY Project oxpires on 2 February 1967. Please subait

your reveval requost prior to 1 Jamuary.

COS, Mexico City

Tae RE TEE Eee Tia A

WS Fe RUNRE
50-6-75/2

Tet

Buystos-Videla

COORDINATING

OFFRESS LIVE

SNS
pores 50

[we S 2 Rattnmais” S-

{QP S3 use rece somion.



penitence 7 SECRET *

(when Felted Ia)

Syevetese

LIS: vor

CRTENS 108

ATION

2
CONCURRENCES OF DIVISIONS

THUG wave ood etinetured BO MET USE

aC. Nareliva.

hep is etter

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS

Wnt ATTACHED,
fa Dare

Some

PERIO0

APPROVAL,

aut Tets ACTION

“s #'}. February 66 ii 31 January 67 4% 5,000
sicnaTos

APPROVING AUTHORITY

‘ AYDDP

orerrrry SECRET

Tome

pee! B48 8



im

T1986

250

€

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans

‘SUBJECT LIENVOY Project Amendment

1. Amendment of the LIBNVOY Project is requested for an addition-

sal’ $5,000 for FY 1967. The Project wns last approved for the period 1

February 1966 through 31 January 1967 for a total of $50,698; $20,960
for FY 1966 and $09,738 for FY 1967. This amendment vould bring the .
total Froject approval to $95,698. Fundo ore available vithin Wit

2s Tho Project amendment io necessary in order to provide for
unanticipated expenses revolving around en increase in tho telephone
tap LP pergonnel and the establichnent ‘of a nev Joint letter intercept
progan now referred to as LISALAD. Regarding the first, Headquarters
has recomended for som time-that additionel monitors de hired be~
cause of the heavy-workload in the telephone tap LP. There are 30 lines
running: into the center ant the monitors who work on a shift busio,
monitor all telephone calls received on‘dll 30 lines, This monitoring
ts only to determine the importance of the call and in order to make
notes and a log for the transcrivers. This serves two purposes.
Flrot, any extromely valusble information can be detected imediately
‘and action can be taken by the Station or the Mexicans with no time
lng. Secondly, it makes’ the work of the transcribers much easier.
They must process all the tapes overnight so that a briefing paper is

“oh the President's desk the next morning outlining all informaticn of

value received the previcus day through the telephone intercepts. The
Station has rehired LIENvuy-8 at a salary of ekO/month. This is the
gama salary the other monitors receive. LIENVOY-8 had previously
resigned after returning to the regular aruy« Ef

3, In addition to hiring a now monitor, the Station has made
Lnenvoye§ the Supervisar of the LIBEVOY listening post. lle has recpon~
sibility for 4 monitars ant one file clerk. Prior to thts tine there

ith whom the CIA Staff Agent, Arnold F.
AREHART could 4 y problems in the tap center. He hart
to valt until LIENOY-2, the Mexicans’ principal representative in
the LIEWOY project, was available. LIEIVOY-5 has been given a reloc

SEGRET "=

|



in salary of $128/nonth, bringing his total salary néw te 33
iHeadguarters feels that the addition of the extra moniter
ishment of a supervicor in th? LP are good moves and are wor

additional funds required.

4, The history of the ‘D ¢ of LIEWVUY goes back to the
sumer of 1966 when! decided that he nect2d
access to a letter reept profran which vould give him better
results than be hed previously gotten through CIA's LIBIGHT/LIMD
Program. (The LIMUD Program is essentially a unilateral CIA °F ration,
but LIAAMA had adopted: the practice of giving LIKAZAK-2 several nares
of persons whose mail he wished perscnally to recelve) Therevere, in
dane Li!
establish a nev intercept program,

cooperate with LIELEGAU in this endeavor. In pre-
poration for instituting actual mail coverage LIGLECANT selected an
individual to conduct a thorough study of the Mexican postal system.
While the study has not yet been completed, go far a complete list of
subscribers to all post office boxes in Mexico Clty has been acc:xcmlated:
LIELEGANT is making available to the Mexico City Station all information
he gathers ‘aso result of his survey, LISLEGAN plans to hire several

stal inspectors who will personally extract that mail
LIELVGY-19, who-has previously been usea
2 ject aso spot informant, is now being hired on a Mull-tine

basis to do flaps: and seals work ond to make copies of all of the
intercepted ites. CIA will pay LIENVOY-13's new salary of $2k/ecnth.
LIELEGANT has. rented a omall bookstore which LIENYOY-19 will manage.

jig will actually sell vdoks and stationery items. He will do his rlaps,
and seals work in the veer of the store where he will also have s copy
machine. ‘The copy nachine fe to be purchased by the Mexicans.

5. Accorling to present arrangements the Mexico City Station
will receive copies of all the take from the Mexican postal intercest
Program. LIENVOY-2 will secure the take and will pass to the President:
those items of interest at the same time he passes a copy of the
telephose tap resume each morning. CIA has an opportunity of taking
advantage of this letter intercept progran for specific coverage i?
we needs

6. No new changes are plenned by the Station in the handling of
the LIBIGH?/! letter intercept program.

7. WH Division recommends approval of the amendment for an afdi-
tional $5,000 to be used for salaries of LIENVOY-8, LIENVOY-5, LI=NOY-19,

‘SECRET


“ SECRET

~~

and other expenses such ss rent and supplies for the new LISALAD
Joint letter intercept . A cable for your signature is attached
informing Mexico City of t= approval of the amendment.

CE, wee ele

te
fo Willie Vs Broe
Chief,
western Henisphere Division

SECRET



Pa

ee
\ MPS/BG/ST

\ eT Oct be
PROJECT BRIEPING
PROJECT: LIENVOY J 4 WH - Mexico
_ ACTION :.” ADD/P ‘approvat of auenduent 1 Feb 66 - 31 Jan 67

PURPOSE: Project supports a joint CIA-Mexican government tele-
phone tap operation against Chicom and Soviet Bloe in-
stalletions and Mexican Communist targets. (The aroject

was renewed 29 Apr 66.)

AMENDMENT: To meet unanticipated expenses created by an increase
7 in telephone tap LP salaries and’ personnel and by she es-

tablishment of a new joint mail intercept program. Head-
quarters has recommended additional monitors to weet the
heavy workload in the tap LP. The Station has rehired
an asset who had previously resigned to return to the
regular army. Further, a position of supervisor for the
LP has been created and LIENVOY/5 -has been appointed to
the position and given an appropriate raise.

The mail intercept program inaugurated at the
request of CIA will pay the
costs of L: who W. ‘orm flaps and seais work

5 Pi
.and wake copies of all intercepted items, The Station
is to recoive copies of all the take from the intercept

program.
FUNDS : $5,000 additional for FY 67
(Programmed for FY 67 $50,000)

$55,698 total $20,960-1n Fy 66 ——=—$34, 738 tn ¥¥ 67
PREVIOUS «
APPROVALS: 1 Feb 66 - 31 Jan g $50,689

1 Fed 65 - 31 Jan 6 47,353
1 Feb 64 ~ 31 Jan § 26,533
1 Feb 632 - 31 Jan 6 70,388
1 Feb 62 - 31 Jan 63 43,200
1 Feb 59 - 31 Jan 60 163,537

STAFF
COMMENTS: FI and CI Staffs have concurred in this amendnent.



4 " : SECRET

Loser tilted ny

PROJEY» ACTION

ree i ny

iemlern edurhue Civls

Wetepurnt

i e TRANG sae Ose
{er 16 ot |

CaTENS 108

Temwenarion baka

CONCURRENCES OF DIVISIONS

DO NOT ust

ORGANI ZAT 1ONAL R
pias TYPED NAME Cond signature) pare Pieteence

7

pare ee

}-|_]

: APPROVAL
; = TD rein Trig Tp
J je Fearancy 66 [32 aasmey GT | 53,000 Eres

Beel BUB fetinss

ty ‘SrowaTuee

SECRET



i

SECRET.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plana
EXBIECT 3 LIERVOY Project Anendmont

ly Auoniment of tha LIENVCY froject 1s requested for an sddition-
a1 $5,000 for FY 197. Tho Project was last approved for the pariod 2
February 1966 through 31 Jammry 1967 for a total of 350,698) $20,960
for FY 1966 ani 29,738 for PY \907. This ameninent would bring tho
total project approval to $55,695. Fumie ere available within ol

Division.

2. Tho Project emondmnt ic mscessary in ordex to yrovida for
unamicipated exjensev revolving aroun! sn increase in tho telephone
tap LP porconnel and the establisinent of a mow joint letter intercept
progrom mov referred to as LISALAD. fegardiag tho first, Heedquarters 1
has recomemiet for eam tine that nfiditional monitors be hired be- te

.eause of ths heavy workload in the telephone tap LF. fhere are 30 lines

running into the center and the nenitars who vork on a shift baols,
monitor all telephone calla received on all 30 lines. This moaitoring
fo only to doterning the impartence cf ths call apd in onder to make
nolse api a log for the trascariters. This serves tre murresen,
First, ary extrezaly valuable information can be detected inmodiately
emi action can de taken by the Station or tho Maxiceno with no tine
Jag. Secondly, it mikeo the vark of tho trenscyibero much easier.
Tony mst process all the tana overnight co thst a brtofing paper is
on the President's desk the next morning outlining all information of
yolua received the previous dey tarough ti telophus iutercapts. The
Station has rehired LYENY-8 at a calery of $2t0/nanth, This 1s the

seme onlary tha otter monitors receive. LISHVoY-8 bod rrevicusly :
resigned after retamning to th: regular amy. :

“3. am eddition to hiring a new moniter, tho Station has cade
LIEMVOY-5 tho Supervteor of the LISHVOY listentus post. ls has respon-
sibility for 4 matttors ari one file clerk, Pricr to thia time thre
bas Deen no real cupsrvinor vith whos the Cli Staff Agent, Arnold F.
ARSUAR? could diecuss day-towlay orcbiews in the tap center. He hod
to wolt until LIEWVOY-2, the Kextcans' principal representative in
the LIRNVOY project, uno availeble. LUsiVOY-5 hac been given @ raise



tn sakury of $1at/month, bi

tional funds requis

4. The histor
sumer of 1966 whe
ncccns to a letter intercept prowraa which
reculte than he had previously
(The LENUD Progra 7
had acopbed the pra,
of pereons whose anil he wished peedhdl tet

Jane LIBIVOY-2 and

intercept prosra
to cooperate with LISISG!
pOFAtION Tor Institutin; actual sail covery
individual to cendnct a thorouch study of the

Wile the study has not yet been completed,
subscribers to alt post uifice boxe

eral CIA operate ny
several nanes

in pre
AST elected an

postal. syste:
complete L

L

y been used under the
on a LL-t 2
all of the
or gelio/senth.

tnayectors who will yersenally #
(bik yox-ly, who hus yarevte:
VOL Project as a ¢ is nx

vasis to do flaps and srals
interested tte: CEA wih
LIBLEG/TD hay rented a small boo!
iv: Lid actualiy sell bovas om
and anal ba pour of
machine, The copy aachine is to &

5. According to present a
vill receive copies of all the tats fro: the }
program. . LISHWVOY-2 will secure the take and w.
th items of interest at the
telephone tap resuze each cor
tter intere:

ao City station
cstal interceyt

we necd.

7. Wit Biviston apsroval of t!
tlonal $5,000 to be used for saleries of LIZNvOY-S

§



a

and other exyenses such as rent and supplies for the new LISALAD
joint letter intercept unit. A cable for your signature io attached
informing Mexico City of the approval of the anendnent.

[CL ane Cee
A Wilden V. Broe
e Chief,
Western Hemisphere Divielon

SECRET

rea


PROJECT:
ACTION :
PURPOSE:

nes /00/P2

: 27 Oct 66
PROJECT BRIEPING
LIENVoy WH - Mexico
ADD/P approval of amendment 1 Feb 66 - 31 Jan 67

Project supports a joint CIA-Mexican government tele-
phone tap operation against ChiCom and Soviet Bloc in-
stallations and Mexican Communist targets. (The project
‘was renéwed 29 Apr 66.)

AMENDMENT: To meet unanticipated expenses created by an increase

in telephone tap LP salaries snd personnel and by the es-
tablishment of a new Joint msil intercept program. Head-
quarters has recommended additional monitors to meet the
heavy workload in the.tap LP, The Station has rehired
an asset who had previously resigned to return to the
regular army. Further, a position of supervisor for the
LP has been created and LIENVOY/5 has been appointed to
the position and given an appropriate raise.

The mail intercept program has been inaugurated at the
request of CIA will pay the
costs of LIENVOY/19 who will perform flaps and seals work
and make copies of all intercepted items, The Station

4s to receive copies of all the take from the intercept
program,

FUNDS : $5,000 additional for FY 67
(Programmed for FY 67 $50,000)
$55,698 total $20,960 in FY 66 $34,738 in FY 67
PREVIOUS aa :
APPROVALS: 1 Feb 66 ~ 31 Jan 6' $50,698
1 Fed 65 - 31 Jan 6 7,463
1 Ped 64 - 31 Jan 88 26,538
1 Feb 63 - 31 Jan 6! 70,088
1 Feb 62 - 31 Jan 63 43,240
1 Peb 59 - 31 Jan 60 163,537
STAFP

COMMENTS:

: FI and CI Staffs have concurred in this amendment,



?

SECRET fen

PROJews ACTION

CONCURRENCES OF DIVISIONS

ted wr TYPED NAME Cand eramatore) Tats SPACE

| Retro Carter _ pile etaesanee nigel
a ae

* 1
rayon | Seema Fake Buel Beeene
“| Beas C. mapelies !

T- sa Vaan

ePeereay 66 |S emmy 67 |

oF Vonatost

SECRET


14-0000 =

MEMORANDA FOR: Deputy Director for Plans
SUBJECT { LEGVOY Project Aneptnest

cit Amsndesst of tha LIRVOY Project 1s requested for an stdition

$5,000 for F¥ 1967. ‘The Project vas last acrroved for the period 1
rae 1966 through 31 Jamunry 1967 for a total of 350,65) $20,960
for FY 1966 end $09,733 ror Fx J207. Tato aneninent vould bring tho
total project, aeereres te $55,698. Puma are crailable within JH
Division.

2. too Project exondsnnt fo mecessary in order to jrovide for
unanttelpated expenses revolving around so (increase is thy telepions
tap LP personnel aml. the estavlisinent of a nev Joint letter Latereapt
progres soy referred to as LISALAD, fegarilay the first, Hoacquertera
has recomeniad for vos? time that additional monitors be hired be=
eause of ths heavy vorkloud ia the teloshone tay L’, There ere 30 Uns
running Lito tha cester and the monitara who vork on 9 saitt dasla,
moulter all teloshors cells received on al) 30 lises, This monitoring

nutes atl alos Sox tha transertters.
Firet, ony extremely valuable information can ve datected iesodiately
ant action ca be taken by the Station or thi’Noxicano with no tim
lag. Secondly, it cakes the york of the transcribers much easier.
hey mist process alt the tases overnight so thst a bricfing vagar 1s
on the Presidest‘s desk thr next uorning cutliniag all information of
volus received tte previous Gay turough tae telephum intervajte. Tre
Station hes rehired LEOWY-S at a salary of f20/month. This ts the
same calary the other wonitars receive. LIcnvey-8 bed previously
roolgsnt after returning to the rejular amy.

3.7 En etdttinn to hiring a now noultar, the Statics bas sate

LOCWVOY-5 tho Suyervicor of the LISiVOY Matentns zoot. ils has respon
oibility for & monitors ant ges file clerk. tr to thin tina there
hea deen ro real supsrvicor uth whon the CIA Star Agomt, Armoli Fe
AREDAND eould dtecusa day-to-day problems in ths tap center. He hed
to woit until LIEXVOY-2, the Hexicana’ principal representative in
the LIPNVOY project, van available. LIDAVOY-5 hac teen given a raise



\gepooe

SEnReT

wey

ae

ia oalsry of 3123/nonth,’ bringing hio total salery nov to 3363/month.
H Teadquarters feels that the nddition of the extra sonitor and tha eatab-
: eo Mohwont of 4 supervisar in the L? are good moves ami ere vorth the
\ i edditicnal fmds required.

t 1 4k. fhe history of the LISALAD LIENVUY goos back to the
' 5 mer of 1766 0 eee ne, lets that he needed
ae ~ = agcuas toe letter tntercept procrns vhich vouli cive hin better

Fecults than bo had previously gotten throuch CIA's LIDIGIT/LDMUD
Frogren, | (The LEW Progren ic essentially a untlatcral CIA operation,
but LOUMA. had adopted tho practice of givin; LICAYA“-2 oovaral neamoe

+ of persons who: personally to receiva).
a i June UEWVOY-2 and his’ father.
: establish a mw reent procran.

: to cvoperate vith LIMO
! paraticn for instituting actual rail coveraze LISA? aolected an
: Andividial to conduct a thorough mtidy of the Hextean poated systen.
whlle the study has not yot bean cowpleted, so far a complete List of
: gubseribers to all post office boxes in Kextco City has beon acewzulated.
a MISLEGAT 16 making gvailable to the Hexico Clty Station ell inforcation
i ho gathero ao a reeult of his mavey. £6472 plans to ‘oh
postal ines vho will. personally extract that watl|
LIBVOY-19, who tas yreviowslr beon use! under tha
LEAAVOL Project og 3 spot intarannt, 15 nov teing hired oa a fulleting
bauis to do flaps and seals work end to saxo “omiva of all of the
Antareepted itemy. CIA will pry LIZHVOY-19'n ney salary 72 SC/roeth,
Liniiwnia’ mao rented a anal bookstore which LIRMWOY-19 wilt eanage.
1 Be will ectually call dvoozs ast otetionsry itens. io will ce his flaps
i ani ecals vari ta tio rear of the tere where he vill also have a cosy
machine. The copy unchine in to be purchased by the Haxicans.

3. According to present arrancenorta tiw Mewleo City

widl racoive copies of ali tho take from the (xicen postal ortarcart
progrem. LIENVOY-2 will secure the take and will pass to the President
those {tema of interest at tho sane time he raasea @ copy of the :
tolephona tap resume each reraing. CIA haa an opportunity cf takin,
.edvantegs of this letter intersoyt progran fer epecifte o. wo if

 G. Ho ney ehangas aro plannod by the Statin in the handling of
the LIBIGIC/LDAD letter intercept progran.

T. i Divigton recomments apyrovel cf the omnizent tor an eddi-
tional $5,000 to be used for salaries of LIE Uy-S, LINNVOL-5, LIEHVGY-19,


ctrorr
OLUHEE

aed other expenses such os rant and sumlies for tho nov LISALAD
i: joimt letter intercept unit. A cable for your olcnature is attached
Anforaiag Mexico City of the approval of the eaeniaant.

eaieteli oe aad t Willies V. Droe
Chiez,
i wetorn Exlophare Division

i SECRET


sagen

ty
peur (caer
Bustos/mht
vi
sesh

24 October 1966

Pee

$0-6-75/2

TaEPTNEres NUNEE

Teare ao Hun FEST z a
= —_ ‘

i
4 1g 3a z CTE OmECTOR - 47728
aoa | 71

MEXICO CITY
REF; MEXICO CITy 8894 (IN 20114)*
PROJECT LIENVOY AMENDED FOR ADDITIONAL $5,000 FOR PY 1967

BRINGING TOTAL PROJECT APYROVAL TO $55,698.
END OF MESSAGE

*Ref requested cable approval of LIENVOY Project Amendment. Sea
monorandum attached justifying project amendment.

wg.
tower BM,
—_

Fina om

Af i.
. CL oe ee

; a/DDP A xeiice C/ WED -
: ,

00R0nATING OFFISERS.

: i ~ Coy AUTHENTIC STING,
acccanine orricen A : oreicca
el SECRET E =

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUIG OFFICE IS PROMIBITED. iaapeits



7
SEGRET.
Be bets

rece O) ner, to anascw .

oesteoe Oare.

at fi

ate Core

Cl sssece Cheserie CDrese

SECRET t€2626Z CITE iEXICO CITY BE94
DIRECTOR 180crei .20008
_LIENvoY ‘ : oe

1, REQUEST PROJECT LIEXVCY ANENDMENT FOR FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
TO PROVIDE FOR ADDITIONAL ANTICIPATED EXPENSES .LP AND LISALAD UNIt,
LIERVOY+& REHINED BY LIENVOY-2 AS NEEDED EXTRA SOMITOR AT 2,000 an
PER NONTH ON RECOMMENDATION PRESIDENTIAL STAFF, REQUEST REACT {VaTe

OA SEING POUCHED, LIENVOY-5 GEING RAISED TO GENERAL LP SuPERVigos
WITH INCREASE 1,5¢0 HW SALARY WONTHLY, | OTKER EXPENSES ARE RENT AND

SUPPLIES FOR NEW LISALAD UNIT,

@. REQUEST CASLE A

SECRET



si am

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CCS

FRO

SUBJECT

‘; 7 September 1966

: Wil Division
Project Funding Plan/Project LINNVOY (FI)

AL Identification of Activity

is
r 2.

3.

Project cryptonyn: LIENVOY
Approved for: 1 February 1966 - 31 January 1967;
$50, 693

FY 1966 - $20,960
FY 1967 - $29,738

: Proposed successive fiscal year budget: Sane

Brief statement of project aims, character and
structure:

‘fhe purpose of this projcct 4s to provide
for joint telephone tap operations run 1a cooperation
with several bizh Mexican Government oftictala.

Tnio phase of the project is run through x CIA

Star’ Ayent und a Hexican agent who handle. the dage-
house and the employees there. This Hexican agent
algo has direct contact with the Station Caso Offtcer,
This Project aise provides for a channel for direct
contact botween the COS, Hexico and high government
officinla. These latter officials are not paid any
salary, rotainer, or expenses.

B. Funding Ristory

i.

Tho Start Avent passes nuvey received directly from
the Kexico Station to the Mexican principal agent
for his own salary and to pay 411 the Yexican agents
heir salaries (total salaries average $2,600/month).
Replacement ecuinrent for the tap center is minimal,
and money for operational oxpenses and supplies in
given to both the Pri et oa] Agent and the Staff? Agent
y by salary of the Stat?

is deponited to a U.S. bank account directly
receives a field allotment and

Agent
by Monetary, 2 also
his allowances in the field from the Station,

Funds have always beep handled tu this manner, The
original equipment was instullted by CfA, aot mid for

by the Mexicans



SSSECRET

PROJECT APPROVAL NOTIFICATION

MEAL. aces _

fe Lt Sf

1 vob 66 ...10..3h Jan 62

6135 - 1010

$5,000 additional for rv 67

SECRET

|__Mexiea

Cask orvicen Eatension



Acting Chief, Wi Division

LIENVOY Projoct Ronowal

8D RUBE

am
REFERENCE: I0MA~-28032\

1, The LEENVOY Project was reneved on 29 April 1966 for
the period 1 February 1966 to 31 January 1967 for a total of
$50,698; $20,960 for FY,1966 and $29,738 for FY 1967, The
allowance for upkeep of ‘a QP vehicle in the Station's submission
vas dropped, and the contingency fund for new agents for FY 1966

vas changed to $900,

2. KUTUBE commented during the renewal review, that the
Project is, in their view, a model for imitation by others,
particularly in the arca of -efficient procossing and exploitation
of rav take, They stated that the presentation was excellent.

The office which reviews the intelligence product commented that
in their opinion the LIENVOY coverage of internal subversive
activities had shown considerable improvement over previous years,

3... Your Branch heartily endorses tho above commendations,

Elsie I, SCALSTTI

Distribution: par
1 - COS, Mexico City

5 Hay 1966

RI

Chrono

$3 ase rarsoue connor



PROJECT ACTION

SECRET

LIENVOY.

Cocca

7 "Mextes: 8h
Ecos

Mexico

GH-43

cast oer iar

ve
i tdgs _|f" |saa5 4506

_CONCUKKENCIES OF DIVISION

of OT USE
pare THIS SPACE

|—Donald_C._.Marel.
William V, Broe ?

FI staff _

33/Robert E. Andersen __

cr Start

pans W. Hughes _

"SECRET



1 Syte 19g6

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director for Plans
THROUGH: ODP, PG
SUBJECT: Project LIENVOY Reneval

1. LIENVCT supports the joint telephone taps in
Mexico City run iu cooperation with h officials in’
the government. The lines are shared equally--15
targets selecitsé by the station and 15 by the Mexicans.
The operation zise provides a channel to the Mexican
President.

tion is still the largest single

e intelligence at the station. -

ar among the 176 reports and mass
formation collected the product.
lines. Indispensabie assistance
was provided. Otner targets were
lines), NCNA (one). Czech and Polish
(two cach), plc veral CP targets The staygering |
amount of nearir pages of travscripts were
produced in 19835 grom this operation.

2, This
producer of pe:
Noteworthy this ;
of operational
from the six Cus
to other operaz
the Soviets (£3

3. . The opérational intelligence produced by.
LIENVOY is cop: {t is exploited in very active
Cuban, Soviet, Sacellite, and Chinese operational
programs.

TETOY Project provides one of two active
channels of corzzzt between CIA and the President of
lexice (the ot 5 LITEMPO, the chaunel through the ~
Mexican security zgparatus). Through LIENVOY we pass

the President 3 sunmary of the day's taps, and the veekly
PBBAND summar ch must have a beneficial effect on
Mexican foreig! The contact has 2lso given the
DDP himself two sscurtunities to brief the President on
Latin. American £ S, has given us to 2li un-
listed phone ny and has given our Chief of Station ~
direct access to Prosident on intercal security
problems. We bat. d the President's bodyguard.
mede him an efi: t of five colorful desk phones,
gotten police om, s for two more agents of ours,
‘and generally sizeagthened the long-standing and intimate
friendship bet tie President and CIA.

4. The Li



5. At $50,698, the project cos 3500| more than was
asked last year, but $2800 of this is tor an-additional
bilingual monitor to help handle increased production.
Operational entertainment is up from $4000 to $5000
Cincluding gifts), and QP vehicle maintenance at about
$800 has disappeared.

6. FI Staff ‘recommends renewal. This project 4s,
in our view. a model for imitation by others, particularly
in the area of efficient processing and. exploitation of
raw take. Its presentation is excellent.

Sad W. LLOYD GEORGE
. Chief i
Foreign Intelligence

Attachment
Project


MPS/BG/PI
20 Apr 66

PROJECT BRIEFING
PROJECT: LIENVOY WH - Mexico

ACTION :- ADD/P approval of renewal : 1 Feb 66 - 31 Jan 67

PURPOSE: Provides for Joint telephone tap operations run in co-
operation with several high Mexican Government offictals.
There aré.30 lines covered, 15 of which are on targets
specifically selected by the Station.

‘PROGRESS: This project continues to be the largest producer of
intelligence information for the Station. It 13 credited
with 176 disseminations last year. In addition, require-
ments for CI/CE information are satisfied by the following

taps:
Cuban Embassy ~ six lines Czech Enbassy ~ two lines
Soviet Eubassy - five lines Polish Extassy - two lines

New China News Agency - one line Several Kexican Communists

In volume, there wag 8,541 reels of raw take which waa
processed ‘nto 19,960 pagea of transcripts. ‘The continued
success of the Station's operatienal progrss against the
Cuban, Soviet and Satellite installations and personnel
in Mexico is largely attributable to the coverage by this
project. In addition to the tap portion of this project,
it also provides a channel to the President of Mexico for
passage of information and for providing him with appro-
priate services. .

FUNDS : $50,698 $20,960 in PY 66 $29,738 in FY 67
(Programmed FY 66 $50,000) ‘
Salaries (12) and bonuses $33,664
Operational expenses 4,800
Suppites and equipment 2,500
S/H rental : 2,500
Entertainment. and gifts 5,000

Contingency fund _ 2,234


PREVIOUS
APPROVALS:

STAFF
COMMENTS :

1 Ped 65 = 31 Jan 66
1 Feb 68 - 31 Jan 6
1 Feb 63 - 31 Jan 6

1 Peb 62 - 31 Jan 63 -

1 Feb 61 = 31 Jan 62
1 Feb 59 - 31 Jan 60

FI and CI Staffs concur,

Oe s58
70/088
43,240

59,090

163,537



|

Project L

1, FYINT/RE files contain Lit y
disseminati prodaced oy Pre

1965 and 3l January 1966,

the Comnmumist Party of Mexico
al rling on

ta, and Eastern

rts dealt with

during the period 1 Februte
bulk of the i
or Commu
activities
European

of operation Js necessarily
ul provided valuable
groups and other political

rnmont in Me

t type

activities bh
years.

3, Re:



* tap operations for the Me

aad

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans
SUBJECT + Project LIENVOY Renewal

1. Approval is requested of the LLENVOY Project for
the period | February 1966 through 31 January 1967 for a
total -of $50,698; $20,960 for FY 1966 and $29,738 for. FY
1967, This Project was programmed for $50,000 for FY 1966,
and funds are available within WH Division.

2, - The LIENVOY Project provides one of tvo telephone
co City Station, LIENVOY is run
in cooperation with several high Mexican government officials,
und always has coverage of 30 Lines, L5 of which are on
targets specifically selected by CIA, the other 15 a

being of interest but selected by the Mexicans, ‘The
LIENVOY Project is anefficient and effective operation,
where all the taps run inte ene center; which has a capa
bility of switching a tap to almost any phone in the city.
connections are made in the main telephone company.
LIENVOY is used for all of Mexico City Station's phone
coverage except against agents and sensitive intelligence
and security targets, which are covered by the untlateral

LIFFAT Project

3, The LIENVOY Project is the largest single producer
of. positive intelligence at the Station, The LIENVOY reports
satisfy requirements in the Priority A and Priority B cate
gories of the most recent Related Mission Directive, The
subjects covered include Mexican politi developments,
Mexican Communist and Leftist parties and leaders, and travel
and activities of foreign Communists in Mexico or transiting
Mexico, Almost all of the intelligence gathered under th
Project is not available through other Station assets, From
L January through 31 December 1965 this Project was the source
of 152 positive reports, of which 130 were disseminated, The
22 reports which were not disseminated were considered frag-
mentary (7), of little or no value (9), overtaken by events

(2), or overt (4).

SECRET



Ea bay cs

SECRET

4. In addition toé positive intelligence, LIENVOY
provides information in support ‘of going and proposed
operations, as well as a wealth of CE information,
Particularly valuable in the last category is the infor-
ration on Americans, including U.S. servicemen, who have
tricd to.contact the Soviet and Cuban embassics and the

NCNA office. :

5.
this Project also provides a channel to the President of
Mexico, Gustavo Diaz Ordaz, through his special advisor,
LIELEGANT, who. is the Nexican principal in the joint
telephone tap effort. The Chicl of Station is in direct
contact with LIELEGANT, and often reccives messages from
the President via LIELEGANT, or LIELEGANT arranges 9
personal mecting. It is this channel which is used to
puss extracts from the weekly PBBAND summaries to the
President. It was also through this channel that many
CIA services are made available to the President; 1.0.,
telephones, training of the bodyguard detail, etc.

(Sce paragraph F of the attached Project Outline.)
Access to the President is also obtained under the
LITEMPO Project.

6. WH Division recommends renewal vf the LIENVOY
Project as presented tn the attached renewal request
submitted by the Mexico City. Station,

- at
whan heeeé &. Cate
WitYiam V. Broe
“chief
Western Hemisphere Division

SECRET

5 In addition to the telephone tap portion of LIENVOY,



PROJECT LIENVOY RENEWAL

‘A. CURRENT: 0)

The LIENVOY Project provides for a Joint KUBARK-Mexican Government sponsored
telephone. tap unit and for a non-official Maison relationship with access to
the highest ranking government officials of Mexico. The tap unit provides direct
support necessary to covor targets and operational programs levied on the
Mexico Station via the |__|aa voll as spot requests from Headquarters and other
Stations. This project also produces considerable positive intelligence.

B. CHANGES
(1) Operational Mechanten

The LIENVOY Project was created in late 1958 and put into operation
in carly 1959 at the request of LITENSOR who appointed LIELPQANT as his spacial
ssslotent to work with Willani C. CURIIS in the supervision and administration .
of the project. In mid-1964 it became evident that LIRAMA vould replace
LITENSOR 1 Docouber 1964.. (LIRAMA was then LITEMPO-2 and n clandestine Matson
contact with Willard C. CURTIS under the LITEMPO Project but wag not knowledgeable
of the CURPIS/LIELHGANT/LITENSOR relationship in Project LIEWVOY.) On 10 Auguat
1964 LIRMMA wet with CURTIS and LISLWAND und advised them that LITENSOR had
briefed hia on the LIZNVOY Project in dotail and that {f should be continued
with the same personnel and the same manner of operation, Both LIELSGANT and
LIENVOY-2 were given nominal positions on LIRAMA‘'a otaff with cover for daily
contact with LIRAMA. Government credentials were also provided for Arnold Fs
Arehart {Staff Agent) ae well as the local agents working in the LP. During the
Past project year, the LP has remained in the same location. Inside the front
doorway a credential, provided by LIRAMA, prohibits entry to anyone without
speciel persteston chtained fron LIRAMA’s office.

(2) Agonta

There have been no changes in agent personnel during the past two
project years; however, for information of reviowing officials not familiar with |
this project, there is enclosed as Attachment-1, a chart listing current LIENVOY.
targets as well as the functions of each agent. Staff Agent Arnold F, Arehart
has been with the project for six years. His duties inside the LP are to gaititain
the technical equipment and protect KUBANK intereat by observing activities of
local agents and preventing negligent brwakage or loss from theft. There has
been no major mechanical breakdown during the past project year. Arebart also
ie there to see that KVBARK cote copies of all transcripts ani gets reels on any

and all converretions.

C. INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION :
The Chief of Station Mexico considere the LIENVOY Project as a valuable source



-2-

for pooitive intellisence on Mexican political figures on Communism and on

--activities of foreisn Comauniats in Mexico or trancitting Mexico. In addition

this project assists in satisfying the Station's support requiregents for
operational data and in providing access to the highest echelons of the Mexican

Government.

(1). FI information. From 1 January 1965 through 31 Deceuber 1965
this project was the source of 176 positive reports. (Of the 641 positive reports
sent by the Mexico Station to Headquarters between 1 Jamuary and 31 Decenber 1965,
.176 (or 27%) of-them cane fron LIEWVOY.) The general cubject categories within

“which these reports fall as related to objectives of tho most recent RMD

(BMMS-4218 dated 27. July 1965) are:

Priority A. 1, 2, 3 and Priority 3. 1, 2, and 3.
“Cuban Embassy Activities in Mexico

Soviét Embassy Activities in Mexico
Activity of Nexican Government with regard to intentions and
strategy in domestic and foreign affairs

Communist Party of Mexico (PCM) Activities 1n Mexico

Communist Front Activities (Movimiento Liberaciton Nactonal - MLN)

in Maxico
Activities of Cowmnist, Leftist, or outspoken Anti-PBPRIME political

figures ‘
Activities of Commniet China representatives in Mexico

(2) CI/cE information. In addition to the general subject categories of
FI interest, the LIENVOY Project continues to fulfill a standing requiremont to
provide CI/CE data on the following selected targete:

Cuban Babasey - six lines
Soviet Bnbassy - five lines

Chinese Communist News Agency (NCNA) - one line
Czech Embassy - tvo lines

Polish Drbassy - two lines

Several Mexican Ccamuniate

Of the above coverage, neither the Czech nor the Polish Embassy targets are*
listed a3 a priority in the liteat Related Mission Uirective. They are covered
for possible leads into the Soviet Fmbassy intalligence activity.

D. EFFECTIVRESS

(1) During the past year (1 January 1965 through December 1965) the LIENVOY
Project covered a total of 30 (thirty) targets cimiltaneously which provided
§,54l reale of raw take. This waa processed into 19,960 pages of transcripts

f this amount actual count by LIENVOY processors was 14,460 pages, an estimate
by the outeide Czech translator was 1,500 pages, the Fuseian translator 2,000
Pages, and tho Polish translator 1,000). Enclosed as attachment mmber 2 ie th
1965 Work Load Log for LIENVOY by month and target, Since this includes only the



cra

werk done inetde the LP, total figures vary acconting to additional vork done by
other Station: (unilateral) agents, z

" (2) (a) Mextcah Targets. Of the 30 lines covered, at least 15 of then are
always exclusively for KUSASK the remaining targets are selected by LIRAMA but are
also of definite interest to SUSARK as sources of positive and CE/CI intelligence,
‘The Maxican targets covered during the past project year were:

20 3018 Lazaro Cardenas Del Rio
40.19 18 Lazaro Cardenas Del Rio :
(pro-Communist, anti-PEPRIME ox-President of Mexico)

“86.2219 Lic. Armanio Gastillejos Oritiz
Qeader of the Partido Comnista Bolchevique, Partido
Comunista Mexicano ~ PCM splinter group)

23 85 25 Alonso Aguilar Nonteverde ©
: (prominent Naaican Marzist intellectual, itular’head of the
Novimiento Liberacion Nacional, MLN, member of Comite Mexicano
Por Paz ~ Mexican Peace Comittee, Forser head of the Circulo
Estudios Mexicanos ~ CEM - Communist Front Cultural Group.)

46 1270 Vicente Lombanto Toledano
(Mexican Marxist labor leader)

35 59 82 Union Nacional Sinarquista
(Rightist catholic group),

45 5952 David Alfare Sicuetros
(painter ana Cecrunist rabble rouser)

35 36 52 Politica :
(bi-weekly Marrist, anti-PBPRIME, pro-Cuba nagezino)

42 06 97 Francisco Galindo Ochoa
(Pres Secretary fer the Prestdencia).

48 6016 Prensa Latina
ko 6015 (Castro Cuban subsidized Prose Agency).

43.15 06 Lic Mnrique Gonzalez Pedrero :
(Communist wecder oF National Executive Comittee of Movimiento

Liberacion Nacional ~ NLN) ‘
19 70 64 Jorge Lopez TANAYO Castillejos i
(Mexican Marxist intellectual and a leading sember of the Conite
Mexicano por la Pas ~ CMP - Mexican Pesce Comittee and father of
Jorge TAMAYO Portillo, secretary of the School of Feonomice at
‘the National Autcnoncus University of Mexico and contact of the

Cuban Enbassy)



j4-00000

10 29 69 Movimiento Liberacion Nactonal ~ MLN FF
(anti-PHPRIME, pro-Cuban Communist Front Group)

21 80 65 Movimtento Civico Nacional
(Rightist group of industrialists)

43 54 94 Victor Rico Galsn 7
(Anti-PBPRIME, pro-Castro, Spenish, naturalized Mexican
Commnist.journalist) :

While the above lines’ vere covered at various times during the pest project.

, Year, the LIENVOY. intercept center has the Capability of connecting machines to
any line which has ‘been covered inthe past since once a tap is made running the
line into the center, it stays there after the machines have been put on other
targets. - r . -

The reels fron the above targets are not transcribed completely. LIENVOY
monitors extract significant conversations and include them in a daily “resumen”,
“the original of which is read daily by LIRAMA and a copy of which 1s delivered
each morning to the Mexico Station. The reels ure retained for about ‘ten days
for fuller transcripts 1f requested by LIRAMA or vy the Mexico Station. The

' "resumen" ia typed in four copies at the end of each day (covering conversations
Which occurred that day), (n the following morning by 0800 hours, one copy 16
hand~carried by LIENVOY-2 to LIRAMA. At the seco tiae, Arnold F, AREHART delivers
8 copy to Robert B. RIGGS for delivery to Willard C, CURTIS, A third copy 1s
delivered to LIEUEGANT by LIGWVOY-2, Tue fourth copy iv retained in a chronological
file in the intercept center,

(>) KUBARK Targets. . The KUBARK targets have been limited usinly to ct/ce
requirements. Tnese include the Cuban Enbacsy, Soviet Zubassy, Czech Mnbassy,
Polish Fubassy, and the Communist Chinese News Agency (NCNA). There follows
Selected significant exaxples of the LIENVOY product from each of these targeta
with a Station appraisal of its effectiveness.

1, Cubsn Bubassy. The six lines covered are

14 42 37 The Ambassador's’ private telephone
25 07 95 The Chancery

2415 26 The Chancery

25 09 1 The Commercial Office

LL 23.47 The Consulate

25 07 77 Elena Vasquez Gomez

Tho Chancery and Consulate lines regularly identify foreigners in
Mexico who contact the Cuban Babasay. Reels are usually transcribed
within one day of the conversation; however, if the caller happens

to be a U.S, citizen, the transcr:pta are prepared imediately which
frequently permits the Station to arrange for unilateral surveillance
and identification of the persons involved. The Commercial Office
coverage provides information on Cuban Commercial activities in Mexico
and identification of firms doing tusiness with Cuba.



et

‘The Elena Vasquer Gomez target was connected to oupport the sonsitive —
AMROD operation. Tho AMROD Headquarters Case Officer, Thomas (. URQUHART
(ps) viaite Mexico once a month on teaporary duty in connection with this

operation, His coments on this project aret

"The LIENVOY Project continued through 1965 to be of. great importance
to the conduct of the. AMROD and certain related Operations. It enabled

ease officera ‘to know which of the PSRUNEN target personalities were

in town, who their-contacts were and gave an insight into the operational

‘gituation that affected AMROD. ‘The LICLOVS-1 phase of this operation

vas.of particular value in giving an inside fully documentary view of
opposition “efforts to counter certain phases of the AMROD operation

and helped planning the tactical moves in the LICLOV operation itself.
LIENVOY, thus bas contributed materially to our bandling of the tactical
phases of’ an important operation ani has given valuable intelligence
information concerning various phases thereof."

‘The six lines against the Cuban target are fully transcribed by LIENVOY
transcribers and delivered by Arnold P, ARSHART to Robert B. RIGGS each
morning. Lengthy convorsations sonetimes require additional time for

“transcription, A carbon copy of each transcription is pauched weekly

to Headquarters for use of WH/C. The criginal is retained by the Mexico
Station, .A third copy 1s retained in the intercopt center chronological
files. LIRAMA does not read these transcripts unless some significant
item appears in the "resumen" which causes nim to ask to see a fuller

transcript or to Listen to the tape.

Coverage.of the Cuban Embassy target yields a good picture of daily

“activities, residences, personal habite and weaknosses of Cuban official

personnel in Mexico, This is used by Station Case Officers in selection
of targets for recruitment and in checking on activities of agents
already recruited vho. are vorking inside the target or who are in contact:

with Cuban officials.

2. Soviet Exbassy. Tho Soviet Government has over fifty officials
permanently stationed in Mexico (the largest foreign embassy except for
the U.S.). Tairty-five of these Soviets (70 percent of the staff) are
known or guapect intelligence officers. The five lines under LIENVOY
provide details on the activities of aout of these Soviets. These lines

are! :

15 60 55 Soviet Consulate and Chancery. Tnis line 1s used by fifteen
known or suspect KOB officers. It 1s also used by foreisers
in Mexico atteapting to axe contact with the Soviets. when
‘the contacts suggest clandestine meetings, the Station arranges
for unilateral surveillance and has identified many covtects in
this canner. nce

15 61 55° Soviet Chancery. This line is used primarily by tho Ambassador
and provides wore information on protocol contacts’ than leads of
intelligence interest. However, it gives the Station @ picture
of the personalities being cultivated by Soviet diplomats and of



Mexicans who are seeking contact with the Soviets.

15 61 O7 Soviet Commercial Office, Five (5) known or suspect GRU

‘ officers use this number. Thay are Military inteliisence
officers using Comercial Office cover and in some instances
actually performing coumercial functions or traie cegotiations.
‘The volume of trade between Mexico and the USSR dzes not
justify a Comercial Office staff of ten (10) Soviets. The
Mexico Station has had seme success in running dcxtle agenta
against thede GHU officers, LIENVOY provides a heipful check
on these operations. The take from LINVOY also iientifies

#0 ‘thé’ GRU officers aa escorts for trade, scientific, comercial
and tourist delezations who continue to travel betveen the USSR
and Mexico, either on visits to Mexico or to ant tna other
Latin American countries. Once these groups arrive in Mexico,
their itineraries usually become available. LIENVCY.

15 12 68 Soviet Films Office. This leads into the residence and office

. a of the distributor for Soviet Commercial Films in Mexico who is
@ suspect intelligence officer. There have been s aumber of calls
suggesting clandestine contact with Central Americans but the
Station has not yet deen auccessful in identifying the callors,

15 69 87 Soviet Military Attache. This contimes to be the least
productive’ of the coverage in terms of volume bec! the
Soviet Military officers either wili ovt answer tie ‘lephone or
spend. very iittle time vhere it ringy. It 1s usvally tae
number called by U.S. AWOL servicemen trying to sake contact
with the Soviets, and by other Americans who for oo» reason
or another want to work for the Soviets or go to the USSR.
There are three (3) GRU colonelo aml six (6) civiiian GRU
officers who use this line,

The Soviot information ts transeMbed by the LIMOS tramerivers in tie
same vay as the Cuban traffic except that the reels also contain a considerable
volume of Russian language conversations, This requires that the crels be
picked up daily and delivered tc an outside (unilateral) translaticn (Staff
Agent Douglas J. FIENGLASS) who translates the Russian conversaticcs into
Mnglish. From these transcripts I 1s apparent that the Goviets ar not avare
that their conversations in Russien are being overheard and understood. These
daily exchanges between the Soviets and their wives (who also werk in the Embassy)
provide a good picture of personal habite, grievances, aarriage re.ationehips,

and weaknesses of targets of interest to KUBARK.

“3. Czech Bnuasay. Two lines in the Chancery (45 70 91 and $5 50 12) ere
covered by LIENVOY. Reels from these targets are delivered daily ty ARHHANT
to RIGGS wuo delivers them to the EE Case Officer who arranges for transcription

and translations to be done by David B. SCHLAQHTER, field contrac: agent.

This agent also prepares a sonthly of information on the axtivities
of Czech-officiala in Mexico, This Embassy has a staff of thirty-six (36)

officials of vhom eleven (11) are known or suspect intelligence cfZicerse
LIENVOY has provided the great bulk of cporational intelligence on this
Rnbassy, ite personnel and activities in Mexico. Although no exploitable



ention during the past year, this coverage has

stave come to the Station's
provided invaluable basic invcrmation on the tarsate

&, Polish Baba: LEENTUY covers two lines in this Bubaseys One of
them (11 25°59) the main Chancery, Tho other (25 92 33) te the
private Line of the Polish Camercial Counsolor. These reele ere delivered
datly by AREHART to RIGGS whe delivers them to the ES case officer vbo
arrexces for translations ani transcriptions to be done by Loulse B. dudasic (ps),
‘a contract employee vio preysres a monthly summary of information obtained
froa this coverage. This Sntessy has a“staff of tvelve (12) officials of vhom
=“intelligence officers, LIGNVOY has provided
‘a.considerable amount of oparational intelligence on this Bubassy and their
Coumercial Office in Nexics, Invaluable triformation has been obtained re~
gardifg tha relationships between various Polish officials. LIENVOY also
provides @'very Valuable check on various access agents who are in contact
Sith Polish officiala, Practically all leads to access agents in this field
have originated with the LIE\VOY Projects

5. Couminist China Nevs Agency (NCNA). Three representatives of the
Communist China News Agency are in Mexico, Aa a revult of a briefing of
LIRAMA by Willfard C. CURTIS on 18, December 1964, LIRANA requested coverage
ef the line viich goes into a tuilding used by these Chinese as a combination
residence and office. This: {afcrmation haa beon useful for travel data,
identification of contacts ef toe Chinesu Coummiste in Mexico and some
packsround on the three Chinese news representatives. Using leads from this
urce, several unsuccessSst eftorts have baen made to place a Chinese
speaker in touch with one of the three Chineve nevamen to make @ cold approach
(during international travel frem Mexico to Lonton).

The Mexico Station Case Ufficers responsible for established FI and
CI/cS programs feel that LIENVOY has mad) a very necessary intelligence
sort contribution. The :xtilities of! thio project, duo to centralized
tapping and transcribing, eccrine to produce three tines the volume of
rev audio and finished inteliisence as LIFEAT at approxiaately one half the
cost. AS a semi-official ita'son tap operation, LIENVOY ccntinues to be able
to place a tap on any phone desired whereas LIFEAT, aa a untlateral operation,
does not alvays have immediate access to a desired target. The continued

tional program against the Cuban, Soviet and

success of Station Maxico's cpera
Soviet Satellite installatiocs and personnel in Mexico 1s largely atéributadle

to the continuous ani theroush coverage of these targets by thts project.
Galer of Station, Mexico, reccumends that the project be renewed for another
year as an essential collectica and support operation for the Mexico Station.

S.. PROSLEMS

‘There bave been no significant security, cover, control,
daring the project years

or Maieon probloas

F. LIAISON
This Project encompasses 22

unofficial liaison relationship with high-level



Mexican goverment

iwlS and contribuces vo the irlenty attitudes of

these officials tovard ODYOXE, Youe examples of this liatoon aret
) Chester D. DAINCLD (pa), Cedric T. PAPATS (pa) and KENNETH H. LENENTENO

»)

e)

a)

e)

ft)

s)

h)

1)

3)

(ps) cane to Nexico on TOY from-30 January to 3 February 1965 end
met vith LIRAMA on 1 Fobruary 1965 to give him a briefing on the
political situation in Central Amertca ant to provide technical
Guidance in the selection of sensitive inks for LIRAMA use,

At the request of Willard C, CURTIS, LIRANA instructed a high offictal
in the telephone company on'2 February 1905 to make available unlisted
telephone numbers for two of hio agents to copy, The two agents were
LIENVOY agents from the LP wio had been instructed in the use of

@ mintature camera. Headquarters subsequently provided the Mexico
Station with a reverse listing of ‘these numbers.

In March 1965 Willard C, CURTIS visited LIRANA to discuss a
Posaible Mexican Government PNO operation against an official of the
Soviet. ubassy in Mexico who was known by the Mexico Station to be
conducting espionage operations involving a Mexican citizen.

In carly May LIRAMA aoked via LIELNOANT for a phyatcal. security
specialtst to conduct a aurvey of LIRAMA offices and make
recommendations for improvement of the security of these promtces.
Hnadquarters provided the services of Clarence 0, PANKNIN (ps) on
TOY for tho pertod 16 May - 2 June 1965, As a resuit of this survey,
and at the request of LIRAMA, three LIRAXA bodyguards were sent to
PUPRINS for special training.

In late Nay 1965 the Mexico Station passed nanea of 14 Chinose
Communist basketball ployera to LIRAMA vie LISLEGANI and asked that
these players be denied visas to enter Mexico, Ao a result,
LITEMPO-S (acting on instructions from LINANA) dented them vises to

transit Mexico.

At Bhe request of LIRAMA, Headquarters provided special telephones for
the five lines -in LIHAMA's private offices,

At _the request of Willant C, CURTIS to LIRAMA, tvo agenta under the
LIPIRS Project vere siven special credentials in July 1955 which
documented them as being on assignment from LIRAMA'S offices.
These credentials give these agents accese to tuportant travel
control data from the international airport. :

In September 1965 two representatives of KURIC! visited Mexico and
trained LIRAMA in the use of a highly sensitive writing mediua,

Beginning on 1 September 1965, Philip G. NUPATY (pa), KUBARK
specialist, spent ninety days in Mexico training LIRAMA's Security
Forces,

In December 1965 LIRAMA asked for a XUBARK briering on the political
aituation in Central America which might be helpfui prior to his visit



i

to those countrisa in early 1966, On 18 December Chester D. DAINOLD

i: (pa) ant Stefan LABANO (ps) came to Mexico and met vith LIRAMA on
20 Decexter. DATNOLD coniucted the briefing with LAHANCW acting aa
interpreter,

G. JTNTER-AGSNCY COORDINATION,

No formal cooniination ie required in this Project. Chief, PBSWIN), Nexico,
fo the only ODYCRS official in Mexico outside KUHARK vho io aware of tht.
project and its proviston for a special channel to LIRAMA, CURTIS advi.
Chief, PBSWING cf significent and pertinent subjects which are discussed in
meetings between CURTIS and LIRANA. LIRAMA does not «now that Chief, ‘PBSWING
wmows of LIENVOY or CURTIS contacts vith LIRAMA; he bas repeatly specifically
Toquested that no one in ODACID know of eithe:

a. PLANS,

= . c

The ‘Ytation plas to continue the intercept program without change for the
next project year. As previously noted, LINAMA hao asked that the project
contimie vithout change in personnel or in the manner of operation.

J. Hue.
1. For the past peytod,

The cost of the LIENVOY Projoct (paid by the Mexico Station exclusive
of Eeadquarters costa) tron 1 Fetruary 1964 through 30 June 1965 was

approximately US$ 20,000 ant from 1 July 1965 through 31 January 1966
another $27,000 1s estinated,

2, During the next project year.

During the perlod 1 February 1966 threugh 31 January 1967, an
estinated amount of US$ 50,495.00 vill ‘be required with US$ 20, 960

to be spant in PY 66 and the remining $ 21,738 in FY 67. This
represents an increase of ap>roxicately US$ 3,850.over the last project
year. This 1s needed to cover the increasing cost of

entertainment and gifts for Mexican officials plus e salary

estimate of US$ 2,880 for an additional English/Spanteh
transiator/monitor.

3. Agent Salaries.

FY 1966
LIENVOY-2 2,400.00
LIENVOY=% : 1,200.00
LIENVOY-5 2,200.00
LIENVOY-6 800.00
LIENVOY-?7 800.00
LIERVOY-1. : 1,200.00
LIENVOY-12 1,200.00



14conap

LIENVOY-15

LIENVOY-15

LIBNVOL-16

LIENVOY-18

LIENVOY-19
(paid by LIENVOY-2 on basis of
production)

ce : (contract without bonus
: : Christmas bonus one month’s pay 1966

Contingency fund for new agents or
geverance pay

Operational expenses
Local purchase supplies/equipaent

Safehouse rental
Entertainment & gifts for Mexican

officials :
Purchase of information via
LIENVOY-2
TOPAL ¢
J. ARNEK. a

K. EMERGENCY CONDITIONS,

Englieh/Spanish Translator to be hired 1,200.00

30,00
800.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
3,000.00
1,200.00

.20960.00

1,680.00
2,320.00
1,334.00
1,290.00
1,500.00
1,500.00
2,000.00
1,600.00

29,738.00

There has been no change in emergency conditions arrangcwente since the last
project renewal request in which they were reported.



ie

e

a

SO ee Sp

Oras

29

42
23
Cc?
&0
69
a 9
5 4

w

BOF Do de

» 4S FC 13)

~
aA
oo
bo
g

7, 25 OF 95
7, 14 1m ce
7)

5, 15 12 e%
7, 1S 61 C7

el ld ee rey

vanienas

C. Amilar
ecthardo



14-0000

27301

1921 | 1392
|

NO. 2 TO LIS:


wor Owe Oe Bee ;"
cuassivy To Fike nO, 7 CUASSIFICO MESSAGE aac cores FL
Lente To Fut m0. FCRE

rue meC] wer, te nee | 3 SFCRET
oesteor Osic.

PeesonTunr? NOTIF ITS

fon

co

y

DIR 728326

i SE2 REQUESTED “ES GPONV 253l, SLOT i-9

AREHART VENICLE FUNDED THRO :

anne WAGEMIS ware 'D AYP

RET : i
GUN LPKEGP On AUTRE.

5 73828 SCL OP NV ASSES

1-O2%, ARS HART

SECRET



—

Renewal of Project LIENVOY

ACTON REQUIRED REFERENCES

References As CSI-F No, 250-60 ANNEX B
B. Wi Field Memorandum No. 5-64, AT March 1964

Attached {9 the LIENVOY Project Reneval cubaitted for the pertoa
eS ce
2 February 1966 through 31 January 1967 for 0 total of US$ SopStesen,
Ba lsy

$21,160 for FY 1966 and #205888. tor FY 1967.

ATIACEMENT! Project Reneval (Orig & 5)
* Left hand side h/w
Right hand aide USC.)

Distributions
Or Chie? WH wv atts b/w and use
2- Files

= Removed from Projuct A070!
3 Classigivzattoa: %O-¢ yf
SAPS OS
Box: 77 Fold: 2

——- --.... SF LOPY

ear SUR ae aC
EMva-28092
7 ees

SECRET ESSE

‘EROSS PUFERENCE 10



Fmeestonee ecu *

"na neeung ecqueto

ony gonna ose
jess met mn
|

Mexico City

Chtef of Station,

Chief, WI Division

ee esa sgseteoe pee

"A LIENVCY Project Ronewal
era 7 eee ee

REF: HMA 13537

The LIENVOY Project expires on 1 February 1966,
Please forward your renewal request so that it arrives

at Headquarters by 1 January.

Ernest A. LUSBY

Distribution:

Orig. & 1, COS, Mexico City

1 Nov 1965 ord

TaspaTcn Srtsiie ANP NUMER

WoW 14093

“Gnoee rH RENCE 10

I
i
|
t
i

GMIGINATING
oer - 7 z Test

stog-Videla; bp

TATING

RI
Chrono

c/WHD



H

i

[ DISPATCH |:

Chief of Stats

Chief, WY Division | eee =

‘sunitcr
LIENVOY Froject Reneval ~ oF

rts

RSF: HMMA~-25141.

<1. The LIENVOY Project was reneved on 2 April 1965 for the pertod
1 February 1965 through 31 January 1966 for a total of $47,468; $19,010
for FY 1965 and $28,458 for FY 1966. These figures differ fron those
subaitted by the Gtation in reference tecause ve transferred money for
the Christras bonus from the FY 1965 colum fo FY 1966 (see page 10 of

Project Renewal Request).

“2. The renewal request pre
was suboitted without change,

+ KUIUBE staff made the following comment which will be further
elaborated in discnantons with Station officers:

"This operation has long been one of the deat of its kind,
as a producer both of positive intelligence anl viable CI
operational leads. We are only beginaing to explore the
exploitation of tapo and other surveillance activities as
sources of spphisticated nasesswent data on selected targets.
An operation as effectively canaged as this should be readily
adaptable to such exploitation. Conversations with Sranch
officers give promise ‘that this added objective will be
ia worked into thie and other Mexico station operations within

“the coming year,"

pared ty the Station vas excellent and

Chester D. DAINOLD

Distribution:
0&1 ~ COS, Mexico City

Tere Ts

£. Bustos-Videla “Lye
COUMDINANG

Dietriretion:
1 -RI
1 -Chrono



_ hT R68
ioe

ita the Divdalon)

Soom se Ve TaTEPRAL wTAPY Use (Sat C9 te fore

Tommi sty and RECOMMENDATIONS (Fe ao foreard To the Divestor)

ghe CI Staff concurs in the renewal of. this extremely
productive and valuable project.
eo GENE DEie, ”
pare [27a OS



17 February, 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Se

SUBJECT : Project LIENVOY

1, The LIENVOY Project is submitted for renewal in the
amount*of $47,468, which is approximately the same amount
Allocated for this project last yea The project covers a
joint telephone tap operation with the GOM and also provides
the COS with-unofficial access to the highest GOM officials,
including President DIAZ Ordas. The telephone tap operation
is extremely complex, invelving four outside case officers
who handle translations and transcriptions, 10 assets plus a
case officer in the LP, and covering 30 lines. CIA directs
the placezent of one half of these taps, and our coverage is
directed against Cuban, Soviet. and Satellite installations
and :persozalities, These tags produced almost 150 disseminated
intelligence reports last year, plus a vast amount of CI/CE

dita on these targets, which are of the highest Station
priovity, It is perhaps of iaterest to note that this
project produced about three tisws the volume of raw audio
take aS LifEAT, our unilateral telephone tap operation, at
only about one half the ed The Station renewal request
provides ax excellent detailes breakdown of the mechanics of
this operation and of the individual targets covered.

involved as this there are
obviously a lot of areas where problems could crop up. one
particular possibility is LIENVOY-z, the ‘son of LIELEGANT.
LIELEGANT £5 DIAZ's principa? advisor on intelligence and
security matters and he worSs closely with the COS on this
Project. LIBNVOY-2 was inserted to run the LP at LIELEGANT's
divection asd there apparently is nothing that we can do about
At, LIENVOY-2 is apparently thoroughly corrupt, more of a.
burden in the LP operation Chau anything else, and generally

a dangerous person with whea te be operationally Involved.
However, the Desk feels that his father, with whom our re—
lations have been excellent, will keep LIENVOY-2 in line.

2. In an operation a



3 This operation was highly praised by reviewing”

Headquarters: echelons last year, and no maior echanves ar

setbacks have occured since-that time.
: has personally asked that the operat iot—oc—conemmace-wiren——

the ‘same personne] and modus opcrandi, and nis satisfaction

with this project provided the ancillary benefit of helping

to establish excellent personal rapport between the COS and

him, Although several high-level GOM officials are aware

of this operation, there 1s no evidence that there has been

- any compromise to any of the targets monitored,

4. Recommend that Project LIENVOY renewal be
approved,

:

GERARD! DROLLER™
G/N/POA


cE

FROJECT:
“ACTION :
PURPOSE:

PROGRESS :

FUNDS:

ort
DpP/Pa/FI
1 Apr 65
PROJECT BRIEFING
LIENVOY ; WH = Mexico City
ADD/P approval of renewal 1 Feb 1965 - 33 Jan 66

To provide a joint CIA-Mexican Government telephone tap
operation and a non-official liaison relationship with

access to highest ranking government officials of Mexico. .

From 1 Feb 1964 through Dec 1964 the LIENVOY project
covered a total of 30 targets simultaneously which pro-
vided 7,462 reels. of raw take. Of the lines covered,
fifteen were exclusively for.CIA. The top CE targets
are the Soviets, Cubans, Satellites and Chicoms. Through
this coverage we have learned of several attempts of U.S.
citizens te contact the Soviet Embassy or the Cuban
Embassy, Costa Rican concurrence to an approach by the
Czech-Government to open an Embassy in Costa Rica wes
uncovered by LIENVOY. This move by the Czechs was
thwarted through tne efforts of the U.S. Department ef
State. While the greatest value of LIENVOY lies in the
channel it provides to the Presidency and the CI/CE
information 1t provides, the positive intelligence pro-
duction is greater than that of any other source of the

Station,

$47,468 $19,010 in FY 65 $28,458 in PY 66
Salaries (11) $28,464
Xmas bonus 2,320
Entertainaent and gifts 4,000
Safehouse 2,500
Vehicle maintenance 600
Supplies and equipment 2,500
Ops expenses 5 4,800

2,284

Contingency fund



i
\

PREVIOUS |

APPROVALS:

i

STAPP
COMMENTS :

-1 Feb 64 ~ 31 Jan 65 $26,538
1 Peb 63 ~ 31 Jan 64 70, 088
1 Feb 62 = 31 Jan 63 43,240
1 Feb 61 - 31 Jan 62 59,690
1 Feb 60 ~ 31 Jan 61 53,840
1 Feb 59 - 31 Jan 60 163,537

FI and CI Staffs concur in renewal.

FI STAFF: The possibility of exploiting these taps
28 sources Of sophisticated assessment data on se-
“lected targets has been discussed with Branch offi-
cers and this objective will be included during the

coming year.



fet

SECRET

asee Fitted tne

seistorer
iB cxico City

erence Jorse

ae

otte Bustos-Videla

i cateastos

Lang le:
RENCES OF DIVISION

TYPED NAVE (Und seenaturey

{Gerald Drollor

{Samuel Ralpern

T
i
+
1

_ cone

3/3... Baine

=s/Prank W. Hughes

cfopeyes | A yy)

APPROVAL rains
[erat ast

SECRET



29 MAR 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant- Deputy Director for Plans

THROUGH: DDP/PG
SUBJECT: Project LIENVOY Renewal

1. FI Staff recommends renewal of Project LIENVOY.

2. This operation has long been one of the best of
its kind, as a producer both of positive intelligence and
viable CI operational leads. We ‘are only beginning to
explore the exploitation of taps and other surveillance
activities as sources of sophisticated assessment gata on
selected targets, An operation as effectively managed as
this should be readily adaptable to such exploitation,
Conversations with Branch officers give promise that this
added objective will be worked into this and other Wexico
station operations within the coming year.

yous ,

. 2
SED Catt.
“_W, LLOYD GEORGE

a Chief
Foreign Intelligence

Attachment
Project



* persons

27 January 1905

MEMORANDUM FOR; Deputy Director fer Plans

OY Renewal

sus : Project Lf

\
1, Approval is requested of the LIENVOY Project for the

period 1 February 19¢5 through 31 January 1906, for a total

of $47,468; $19,010 for FY 1965 and $28,458 Cor FY 1966, This

project was proy ed for 950,000 for FY 1965, and funds are

available within Wil Division,

2. The LLENYOY Project provides cne of two telephone
tap capabilities for the ‘iexico City Station (the other ‘one
being LIFEAT which is unilateral) and one of two unofficial
liaison projects with top level Government officials. while
the Governwent off als differ between tis Project and
Project LITEMPO, LIRAMA can be reached through both projects.
LIELEGANT, who is the principal Mexican in Project LIENVOY,
has been named by LIRANA as his Conscicro Principal (Principal
Adviser) on intelligence and security matters, LIRAMA plans
to work closely with LIELEGANT on the various aspects of Pro-
ject LIENVGY to ensure its continued success, Examples of
useful Liaison through LIENVOY to top Government officials is
set forth by the Station in agraph "FP" on page & of their
renewal request.

3. Thetelephone tap aspect of this project provides vevy
valuable information in connection with the C1/CE program of
the ico City Station. The top Ch targets are the Soviets,
Cubans, Satellites and Chicoms. Through our coverage of the
Soviets, KUBARK and OYCKE has learned of several attempts of
U. S. citizens or known intelligence a ts to contact the
Soviet Embassy in tiexico City. Upon identili ion of the
avolved, our Station has worked closely with the EBL
and top U. S. Government offices in investigating any possible
thréats these contacts may have on the security of the U.S,
Governuent. U. S$. citizens have also been identificd attempt-
ing to contact the Cuban Embassy.



4, LIENVGY is an extremely productive positive intelliyence
project, [ts main importance in the intel lixence field is its
capability of providing i dications of the plans and the inten-
tions of the poople who form its target. Perhaps one cf the
most important pieces of intelligence gathered from UTES OY
Guring 1964 occurred on 15 July 1964 when it was learned that
the ‘Costa -Rican Government had concurred in an approach by
the Czech Governsent to open an bassy in Costa Rica, Al
though it appeared recognition had already taken place, this
Agency throuch its high-level Government contacts and the
Department’ of Sate throuph the Anbassador to the Costa Kicen
President, were successful in thwarting this attempt by the
Czechs. In August the Foreign “Minister told our Anbassador
that Costa Mica was not considering diplomatic recegnition

of Czechoslovakia.

S$. The project's limitations, fron the intelligence point
of view are twofold: (1) the significance of fragmentary cone
versations is not always apparent, and (2) telephone lines do
not accept follow-up requircsents. According to Headquarters
records, production figures in 1964 were as follows:

158
49

LLENVOY ta;

Totai Pouched Repo
Kot Disseninated

Total Cabled

ports - 50
hot Disseminated 9

- 9

Cuban activities in Mexico
nd leftist personalitic
Mexico, Reports

The subjects ef these reports were on
and developments in Cuba; Cornunist
in Mexico; Soviet and Satellite activities in
originating from agents under the project are as fellows:

can Covernnent ef Ticiats.

9 reports (4 not disseainated), on “extean
Cosnunist aad Comaunist front organications,
and richtist organizations.

LLENVOY-1; 2 reperts on

Vvoy-19: 1 report oa Cou organizations.

LI

ring the last
The report
alue

G. One customer evaluation was re
year on a report ona Co} nist front erganization
was considered by the State Nepartuent to be ef meuerste Vv
and useful as new inforuation. :



4

7, while the greatest value of the LIENVOY Project un-
doubtedly lies in the channel it provides to LIRAMA and the
CI/CE information it provides, the intelligence product is
also of value as evidenced by the fact it produces ui $
tive reports than any other source of the Mexica City
It is hoped that the processing of the raw material can be
improved so that inal reporting which resulted in the large
nunber of undisseminated reports will soon disappear. The
LIEXVOY take also provides a very important support mechanism
for checking on other reports reccived from independent sources,
and for foJlowing developments related to certain operational -

activity of the Station,

‘ “VOY Project
as presented in the attached renewal request submitted by the
Mexico City Station.

s WH Division recommends rencwal of the Ll

d FitzGerald
nie£
aisphere pi

Desme

Western Her vision


\
REQUEST FOR PROJECT REVEWAL
: i
PROJECT: LIENVOY case orricer:_ [fo (AS

“Willard C, CURTIS

a C. :
STATION: Mexico City CHIES «mamma Yebandl : (eb

Willard C, CURTIS

5e-6- rs)

CAN DAR RTT BMT d rma ASUYS



PROJECT LIENVOY KENEWAL,

A, CURRENT OLKJECTIVES

The LIENVOY Project provides for a Joint KUEARK-Nexican Government uponsored
telepkone tap unit and for a non-officlal aison relatlonship with access to
the highest ranking governzent off{iclale of Mexico, The tap unit provides
direct support neccesary to cover targets and operational progrars levied on the
Mexico Station via the, |as vell es spot requesta from Headquarters and other
Stations. Thio Project also produces positive intelligence.

B, CHANGES

(1) Operational Mechanism

‘Mme LIENVOY Project vao created 1n late 1958 and put into operation in
early 1959 at the request of LITHIGOR vho appointed LIELEGANT as his special
assistant to work with Willard C, CURTIS in the supervision and adalnivtration of
the project, In mid-1964 it became evident that. LIRAMA would replece LITENSOR in
December 1964, (LIRAMA was then LITH4i0-2 and:a clandestine liatson ecntact with
Willard C, CURTIS under the LITEMPO Project tut was not knowledgeable of the
CURTIS/LIELEGANT/LITENSOR relationship tn Project LIFNVOY,) On 1O August 196%
LIRAMA (LITEMPO-2) osked CURTIS and LIELEGANT for a conference (reported to Kead-
quarters in MEXI-0521 dated 10 August 190K), At thio meeting, LIRAMA ndvieed that
LITENSOR had briefed him on tie LIENVOY Project in detatl and that it should be
continued vith the seme persennel end wxnner of operation, LIELEGANT and LIENVOY-2
rave been given nominal porittons vt le cover for detly reports to LERAMA,
Government credentials are also belng provided for Staff Agent Arnold F. AREHART
and the local agenta working in the LP, LIRA¢MA has requested that the LP remain
in Lts present location ani has provided @ credential for the inside of the front
doorway Which prohibits entry to anyose without spectal permisulon obtained from

his office.

(2) Agents

Duricy the last project year there heve been no changen In the egent
personel. For the information of reviewing officials there 1s enclosed as
Attachzent-1, a chart listing current LIENVOY targets as well ac Ninctions of
LIENVOY agents. Arnold F. ARSHART, Exaff Agent, has been responcible for malnten- -
ance of the technical equipment for the past five years. His work continues to
be outstanding and accounts for the fact that after almost six years' use, the
equipment 1s in good working order and has sustained a uinimum of loco through
negligent breckage or theft (both very common in Mexico). ‘There has been no major
mechanicul breakdown since AREHART has been supervising the maintenance of the

equipment.

C, INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION

While telephone tap operations are commonly classified as “support operations",
the LIENVOY Project by nature of some of its targetu, has produced considerable



Pocitive intelligence, It han been revieved both at Headquarters and tn the
Mexico Station as one of the most ERNctive teleplwae top projects in KUBARK
of both FI s U/CE tnformation. :

(1) FI tzrormation, From 1 February 190) through 31 December Ag6h, this
project was tke source of 240 positive reports, The yencral subject categories
vithin wiien these reporta fall as related to objectives of tne avat recent RMD

(HMMS-3290 cated 21 October 1903) are:

Priority A. 1, 2, 3, ond Priority BL 1, 2, and 4,

Qué: Enbassy Activities in Mexico

Soviet Enbassy Activities in Mexico

Activity of Mextean Governzen: sith regard to intentions and strategy
in domestic end foreign afrairs

Comualst Party of Mexico (FCM) Acuivitles in Mexico

Communist Front Activities (Movimiento Liberacton Nacional - MLN) in

Nexlco
Activities of Communist, Leftist, or outapoken AntL-PEPRIME political

Tigures
Activities of Communist Chins representatives in Mexico

(2) CI/es information, Tn addittes to the genernl subject categories of
Fr Antereat, tke LIENVOY Project fulctils a standing requirement to provide
CI/CE date on the following selected tangetot Cuban tmbassy = six lines; Soviet
Vnbeasy - five lines; Czech Embassy - two lines; Polisi Eubassy = 2 linen;
Yugeslay Exbsscy = thu lines (disconnected in April 1964); and the Coamunist
Chinese News Agency (NCWA) - one Line (Seing instalied ae of January 155),

D.  BEFECTIVENESS

(1) From 1 February 1964 through Decerter 19/4 (eleven months) the LIENVOY
Project covered s total of 40 (thirty) targets simultaneously which provided
T,HO2 reels of rav take. Thia was processed into 21,5Uh poges of tranecripte
(cf this amount actual count by LIENOY processors wes 17,004 pases, an vetimate
by the outeiée Czech translator was 1,500 rages, Russian transtacce 000 pages,
ard Polish transistor 1,000). Biclose’ ss Attachnent-2 1a a copy of the wore
Rood log and list of taryeta-which Arcolé F, ARSHART provides the Station on a
monthly basis, Tbis log, of. course, tnciuies ouly the work done faside the LP
end variance of suxthly figures is uccouzed for by additional vork done by other

Station (unilateral) translators,

(2) (a) Mexican Targets. Of the 30 lines covered, 15 of tien are always
exclusively for XUSARK, The remaining targets are selectud by LIRAMA tut are
Wuually of interest to KUBARK as sources cr positive intelligence. The Meat ean
targets covered during the past project yess vere:

wy

rp toa



88
Se
Be

ae
Sa
85

23 85 25

46 12 70
35 59 82
45 59 52

35 36 52

»

1 1b
16 5h

ee
we
ON

46 11 39

46 GO 16
46 6015

4315 06
AL 16:48

10 29 6

Lazaro Cardenas Del Rio

Lazaro Cardenus Del Rio

(pro-Commntst, antt-PEFRIME ex-President of Mexico)
Braulio Maldonado Sandes :
(pro-Commntst, former Governor of Baja Californta,
onti-FEPRIME, organizer of the Movimiento Liberacion
Nacional, MLN, anti-PBPRIME, pro-Cuba Coamunist front)

Alonso Aguilar Monteverde
(prominent Mexican Marxist intellectual, titular head
of the Movimiento Literacion Nacional, MLN, member of
Comite Mexicano por Paz - Mexican Peace Cocmittee,
Former head of the Circulo Estudios Mexicanos ~ CEM -
Communist Front Cultural Group.)

Vicente Lombardo Toledano
(Mexican Marxist labor lenter)

Union Nacional Sinarquiate
(Rightist Catholic group)

David Alfaro Siquetros
(painter and Communist rabble rouser)

Politica
(bi-weekly Marxict, anti-PBPRIME, pro-Cuba magazine)

Francisco Galindo Ochoa
(Press Secretary for the Partido Revoluctonario
_ Instituctonal + PRI)

D.F.S. (private line of the Director, Manuel Rangel
Escamilla)

Prensa Lutina
(Castro Cuban. subsidized tabloid)

Enrique Gonzalez Pedrero :
(member of liational Executive Committee of Movimlento

LLberacion Nacional « MLN)

Ignacio Acosta Lagunes
(pro-Communist atd to General Lazaro Cardenas Del RLo
and leader in the Movimiento Liberacion Nacicaal - MLN)

Movimiento Liberacion Nactocal - MLN
(anti-PHPRIME, pro-Cuban Communist Front group)



46 22 19 Arzendo Castillejos Ortiz :
(leader of the Partido Comunista Polehevique, Partido
Cosunists Mexicano - PCM splinter group)

10 27 2 Juan Ortega Arenas
Geaser of Frente Obrero = Workers Front .~ a dissident
splinter group of the Partido Comunista Mexiceno)

Of the 19 targets listed above, 15 were covered similtancously depending
upon Mexican interest in the individual et the tloe; hovever, lines to ail the
above run into tke intercest center and can be connected as machines become
avatleble wien other lines are out of order or dieccnnected for one reason or
another.

The reels from the above targets are not transcribed completely, LIENVOY
monitors ex-ract significant conversations and include them in the "resumen”
the original of vhich te resi deily by LIRAMA and a copy of which is delivered
daily to the Mexico Station. The reels ere retained usually for ten days for
fuller transcripts if requested by the Mexican consumers of the "resumen" or by
the Mexico Station, The “resuzen” is typed in four copies at the end of each
day (covering conversations vhich occurred that day), On the following morning
by 0800 heurs, one copy is band-carried by LIENVOY.2 to LIRAMA, At the same time,
Arnold F, AREHART delivers a copy to Robert B. RIGGS tor delivery to Willan c,
CURTIS, A thin copy is delivered to LISLEGANT by LIENVOY.2- The fourth copy is
retained {a 2 chronological Nile tn the intercept center,

ib) XUBARK Targets, ‘The Mexico Station CI/CE requiroment is partially
fyrfiliea ty LISWOY which during the pest project year covered the telephone
lines of che Cuban Embassy, Soviet Htbassy, Czech Embassy, Polish Gbassy, Yugoslav
Eubassy, asd cade preliminary installation for the Communist Chinese News Agency
(NCNA), Tere follows selected significant examples of the LIENWOY product fron
cach of these targets with a Station appraisal of its effectiveness.

4. Cuban Erbe The six lines covered are:

4 42 37 The aabassedor's private telephone
25 OT 95 Chancery

1415 26 the Chencery

25 OD 1k The Comercial Offter

11 28.47 fe Consulate

25 Of 77 na Vasquez Gomez

ae Chencery ani Consulate lines regularly identify foreigners in
Nexico who contect the Cuben Embassy. Expeditious Processing or
the transéripts ‘equently permits the Station to arrange for
uallateral sur. eillance ard identification of other contacts. The
Gmmercial Office coverage provides information on Caban Commercial
activities in Mexico and identification of firms dealing with Cuba.

The Elena Vasguez Gomez target has béen of interest in connection
with the AMROD operetion. The AMROL Keadquarters Case Officer, Thomas

gon



G. URQUHART (ps), presently in Mexico on temporary duty has

provided’ the Station vith the following eveluation of the LIENVOY
Product: | "The LIEWOY production on the Cuban Bubassy traffic in
Mexico.City hes been one of the basic elements ccutributing to the
success of the AMKOD operation, directed ageins: the GUIS for CA
purposes. Tre LIENVOY operation has been of value in two general
genses: a. The Cocutentary raterial derived from the texts has
formed coze cf the bnsis for reconstruction of hictorical facts
needed for the operation, b. The day to day coverage hos enabled
the case officer on the AMROD operation to cense the climate inside
the target, to keep track of the movenents of key opposition personnel,
to check onthe bona fides of certain exunts, to check the work of
others for veracity and to live monitor porticns of the reactions

to the AMROD operation itcclf. Beirg able to kcep track of the
chifts and movements of the opposition and their personal relations
has been of vital importance to tnis operation, On two occasions
the AMROD Case Officer also used the LIZVOY base as his command

post when engineering personul contacts between a KUBARK ctaffer

‘and the opposition. This type of close support did muck to determine
the success of those meetings and contributed grently to the success
of the operation. These transcripts provide one of the best sounding
boards for the AMROD operation end are regularly forwarded to me at
Headquarters.”

ascribed by LIEWOY trensertbers
and delivered by AREHART to RIC&S each morning. Lengthy conversa-
tions sometimes require an adé{tional. day for transcription, A
carbon copy is pouched weekly to Heedquarters for WH/SA use. ‘The
original is retained by the Mexico Station, A third copy te retained
in the intercept center chronological files. LIRA dors not reed
these transcripts unless some significant Ltem appears in the
"resumen" which causes him to ask for a fuller transeript or listen
to the tape.

The coverege of this target also yields n good picture of duily
activities, residences, personal habits and weaknesses of Cuban
official personnel in Mexico, Tals Ls used by Station Case Officers
in solection of targets for recruttn: 4 in checking on activities
of agents already recruited and elther vorking for or in contact
with Hrbassy officials, oie

2, Soviet Embassy, The Soviet Government, has over fifty offictals
permanently stationed in Mexico (the larecst fo embessy except
for the U.S.). Tairty-four of these Soviets (aimost 70 percent of
the steff) arc kncwn or suspect intelligence officers. The five
lines under LEENVOY provide details on the activities of most of
these Séviets, The lines aret



15'6e'55 Sovfet Consulate and Chancery. “This line is used by
fifteen (15) known or suspect KGA ofvicers. It ts also
used by foreigners in. Mexico attexpting to make contact with
the Soviets. When contacts suggest clanicotine meetings, the
Station arranges for unilateral curveillance end has had
sone success in Identifying contacts.

15 61 55; Soviet Chancery, This line is used primarily by the Ambassador
and provides nore information on protocol contacts than leads
sEEaeasunezit “of intelligence interest, However, it gives tne Station a
picture of the personalities being cultivated by Soviet
diplomats and of Mexicans who are seeking contacts vith the
Soviets.

15 61 O7 Soviet Commercial Office, Four (i) known or auspect GRU
officers use this number, They are Militery intelligence
officers using Comercial Office cover and in some instances
actually perform comercial functions of trade negotiations
but the volume of trate between Mexico and the USSR does
not justify a Comercial Orfice staff of eight (8) Soviets.
This produces some information useful to check on double
agent operations run by the Station against the GRU officers,
In addition, the LIEWVOY product usually Identifies the
GRU officers as escorts for trade, scientific, commercial,
and tourist delegations who now are constantly on trips
from the USER to Mexico. LIENVOY also provides details of-
the itineraries of these groups once they arrive in Mexico,

15 12 Gi Soviet Films Office. This leads into the residence and
office of Viatintr Petrovich OBRUBOV, a suspect GRU officer,
who distributes Soviet Commercial films in Mexico. Tnere
have been several calls from what appear to be Central,
Americans but the Station has not been successful in identify=
ing the callers or determining the nature of the calls,

15 69 87 Soviet Military Attache. This Is the least productive of
the coverage sisnly because the Soviet Military officers
either won't answer the telephone or spend very little time
vhere it rings, Wevertheless, U.S. AKOL servicemen try
this number to make contect.’ There are three GRU colonels
and six (6) civillan GEY officers who use tite line,

The Soviet information {s transeribed by the LIFIOY transcribers in
the same way as the Cuban traffic except that the transcripts are
delivered datiy with the reels from which an outside tranelator
(Douglas J, FEINGLASS) transcrites the Russian conversations into
English. These Russian conversations are of considerable value end

it is npparent that the Soviets ere not evare thet these conversations
are being overkeart en? understood, ‘There have been conversations
identifying code room personnel; one conversation between two Soviet
children reveeled the entire layout of the Soviet Commercial Offices
personality clashes an¢ grievances arc also atred.

ger

Bue.



-T-

In June 1904 the SR Diviston. made available personnel ror temporary
duty in Mexico to annlyze and collate personniity ant background,
data collected ty LIENVOY but which nad accumulated tn Station

files on dovict-officinis, These Soviet Personality Reports (SPR)
should be useftil on a vorld-wide basis na Sovict offictals are
transferred from post to post, in providing the KUBARK representative
with a summary of the Sovict's past work pattern, intelligence
hetivities as far ns known, physical description, venknecscoy and
vulnerability toxan! recruitment by a Western service. Not all but
a large percentage of this data ie received fron LIENVOY.

3. Czech Erbassy. Two lines in the Chancery (45-30-91 and 45-30-12)
or. covered by LIEWOY, Peele from thece targcte are delivered
Gully by AREHAR? to RIGGS wlw delivers then to the EE Cace officer
(bo arranges for transcription and translations to te done by Davia
B. SCHLAGITER, field contract agent. This egent also prepares &
ronthly eunmmey of information on the activities of Czech officials
in Mexico. - During September 1904 LIENVOY revealed important informa~
tlon on the establishment of a factory equipped with Crech machinery
to produce dyes in Mexico (ANYL MEX). In addition to the stenificance
of thio inforeation in acsecsing Czech economic activities in Mexico,
Chere was operational benefit in dealing with DISOBER, a Czech
Gfficiel on temporary duty in Mexico {n connection with the opening

of this factory.

4, Polish Enbassy. LIENVOY covers one Line (12 25 Wy) in the main
Chancery which preduces data on the activities of fullel offictals
stationed in Mexico, The second line (25 82 38) ts the private line
br Polish Conmerciel Counselor, Czeslaw SLOWAKIEWIEZ, in whom the
Meyico Station has a definite operational interest as & recruitment
target. Recls (without transcripts) from these tarxets arc. delivered
daily by AREHART to RICGS who delivers them to the ER Case Officer
Vho arranges for translations and transcriptions to be done by Norma
Q. BYMINSKY, © contract employee. :

5. Yugoslav Hnbassy, During part of the project your LIENVOY

be eet S Lines In thio Dnbescy. The Lines were disconnected by
TENVOY in April 1964 and Lrangferred to LIFEAT, whe reason for a
thin termination vas to conceal interest in DMPETAL, an agers recruited
see feault of a follow-up of a iead supplied through LIEIOY covers.
During the tize this target was covered, LIEWOY transcribers provided
tranecriptions of the Spanish conversations. ‘The reels vere they
delivered to Victor W. OLOLD, a carcer agent who provided translatioas.

6. Communist China News Agency (NCNA). On 18 December 1964 Willard
C. CEFTIS pricret LIRAMA on the presence in Mexico of representatives
of Communist china using journalist cover for an intelligence mission,
LIRAMA agreed to install LIENVOY coverage of this Line and share the
take ulth the Mexico Station, This ¥ill be a Nextenn Line and
replace the preseat coverage of the D.F,S, The Station hopes to use
this information to influence LIRAMA to'declare these persone persoza
non grate, LIFEAT hac been teken off of this target.



<jagit Summary, the Station Case Officers responsible for established FI
end CI/CE programs fecl that LIFNVOY has made a very necessary intelligence
Support contritution. It should be noted that LIEMVOY facilitice during the
Project year produced about three times the voluze of raw audio tnke as that
Produced ty LIFEAT over the seme length of tice at approximntely one half the
cost. This {s possibly due to the centralized tapping and tranccribing facllities
of LIENVCY ag-conpared with the widely scattered ones of LIFEAT, LIENVOY as a
ifaison tap operation to able to tap any phone desired whereas LIFEAT, as @
unilateral operacion, miat take greater security precautions, The Chief of
Station Mexico feels that the success of Station Mexico's operational program
against the C:ban, Sovict and Soviet Satellité installations and Perconnel in
Mexico is largely attributable to the continuous and thorough covcroye of these
targets provided by LIAMVOY. COS recormenis that the Project be renewed for
another year as an escential collection and support operation for the Mextco

Station,

PROBLENS

There have been no significant security, cover,
during the project year.

control, or Matson problens

FP. LIAISON

Thies Project continues to encozpass an wroffictal liaison re!
high-level Mexican government officials and centributes to the 1
of these officials toward ODYOKE,

uttonship with
rienily attitude

Some examples aret

a). In January 1964 CURTIS met with LITENSOR to diccuss Conmunict China and
Was told by GITENSOR that the Mexican Government would not recognize Red China
during his edministration, :

b). CURTIS had several mectings vith LIELFGANT during April 1964 vhen
LIELEGANT provided information from LITENSOR on Communist agitation throughout
Mexico.

c). In August 1964 CURTIS ond LIELECANT met vith LIRAMA to discuss the
continuation of the LIENVOY Project. i

a). In September 1964 CURTIS at the request cr Chief, PPSWINC, saw LIRAMA to
deliver an invitetion to visit the hoe of GPLOGIC, Several other mectings vere
held between CURTIS and LIRAMA prior to this trip.

e). On 7 Novezber 1964 Chester D, DAIHOLD and Cedric B. PAPATE accompanied
CURTIS to a meeting with LIRAMA where DAINOLD and PAPATE gave briefings on the

Cuban situation an2 on Latin Anerice. Full details of these briefings vere
reported to Heedquarters in HMVA-24700 RYRAT deted 9 iovember 1964,



f), On 9 Decémber 1964 LIRAMA asked CURTIS Yor acsistance in providing a
apeciol ink for the exclusive use of LIRAMA in signing important documents.
Headquarters KURIOT fulfilled this request ty supplying the ink and sending
@ specialist to Mexico to instruct LIRAMA in its use,

gs). On 16 December 1964 CURTIS met with LIRAMA and provided him with
information on Cuban Bnbascy activitics ant asscclation with menbers of Mexican
universities, Personalities: in the 5.N:T.E. and pro-Cuban assoctations, Capture

Communist Activitien in Chihuahua, Copies of information given to LIRAMA were
pouched to Headquarters.

G. INTER-AGENCY COORDINATION,

No formal coordination is required in this Froject. Chief, PECWING, Mexico,
18 the only ODYOKE official in Mexico outelde KUBARK who is aware of this project
and its provision for a opeciol channel to LIRAMA, Special briefings are cleared
with PBSWING before KUBARK representatives meet with LIRAMA, CURTIS advises Chief,
PPSWING of stgnificant ond pertinent cubjects ¥hich are discussed in meetings

between CURTIS and LIRAMA,

4. PLANS,
The Station plans to continue the intercept program without change for the

next project year. As previously: noted, LIRAMA bas asked that the project
continue without a change in personnel or in the wanner of operation,

I. Aas,’

“1. For _the past pertod.
The cost of the LIENVOY Project (paid ty Mexico Station exclusive
of Headquarters costs) from 1 February 19%h throuzh 30 June 1964 was
US $19,415.22 and from ) July 1964 through 31 December 1964 $23,677.68
and for January 1965 $5,000.00 is estimated,

2. During the next project year,
During the period 1 February 1965 through 31 January 1966, an
estimated amount of US $47,468.00 will be required with US $19,010 to
be spent from 1 February 1965 through 30 June 1965 and #28, 458.00 te be
spent from 1 July 1965 through 31 January 1966,

arep gprs



-1o-
3. Agent Salarica,
: FY 196
LIENVOY-2 + $ 2,400.00 $
Lrezvoy-4 1,200.00
LLEMVOY-5, 2,200,00
LIENVOY-6, 800.00
LIENVOY-7 €00,00
LIENVOY-11 . 1,200,00
LIENVOY-12 1,200,00
LIENVOY=14 €00.00
LIENVOY=15 260.00
LIENVOY-16 0,00 1
LIERVOY-18 1,200.00 1
Christmas bonus one month's pay 1965 2,320.00
Contingency fund for new agents or 950.00 1,334.00
severance pay
Operational expenses £00.00 1,200.00
Local purchase supplies & equipment 1,000.00 1,500.00
Upkeep of QP vehicle (1) 200,00 1400.00
Safehouse rental 1,000,00 1,500.00
Entertainment & gifts for Mexicen
officials 2,000.00 2,000.00
Purchase of information vin LIENVOY-2 1,200.00 1,600.00
TOTAL $ 19,919.00 $ 28,458.00
J. ANVEX. >

Om two occaciona during the Project year, the Station requested KURIO?
assistance in making a technictan uvallable for temporary duty replecement for
Arnold P. AREHART, Newton T, RUTSAY came to Nexico in May and September 1964
to supervise the tap center and maintain the equipsent. The Heedquarters
support furnished thie project wns timely and comendable,

K, EMERGENCY CONDITIONS,

There has been no change in emergency conditicns arrangements since the
last project renewal request.



EE Case Officer

inne Robert B, Rings j
i__ Case Officer

cost:

LIEXVOY PROJECT U.S, 47,468, per annum”
ee

[STATION TiRAYA
Willard C, Curtis

Case Officer

i LIERGC-
LIENVOY/1

[

D. Schlageter { N.Q. Rymineky ‘Amold F, Arehart | D. Feinglase
Contract Agent Contract Kaployee Staff Agent —_* Staff Agent
Czech Polish Russian
z LIENVOY-2
Mexican, Supervisor
Field Agent
= 1
MONITORS _ TRANSCRIBERS WATCRMAN PILES
LIENVOY~4 LIEXVOY-6 Cuban Tapes LIENVOY-18 LIENVOY-14
LIENVOY-S LIENVCY-7. Cuban Tapes
LIENVOY-11 LIENVOY~-16 Russian Tapes (Spanish)
LIENVOY-12
TARGETS
KUDARK: MEXICANS:
S = Cuban Embassy (14 42 57, 25-07 98, 25 09 14 2 - Gen, Sanienas (20 50 18, 20 83 46)
11 26 47, 14.13 265 2 - Prensa Latina (46 6C 1€, 46 60 15)
1 = Vazques Gomes (25 07 77 : 2 = Galindo Ochoa (85 68 54, 1S 21 14)
5 = Soviot Embassy (15 60 55, 15 12 64, 15 61 55 1 = Lic, Aguilar ( 23 85 255
15 69 87, 15 61 07. 1 - Lic, Lombardo Toledano (46 12 70)
2-~ Czech Embassy (45 $0 $1, 45 $0 12) 1 - Sinarquista (35 89 82)
2 - Polish Embassy (11 25 49, 25 82 38) 1 -/Alfsro Siquetros (45.59 52)
1 = Politica (85 36 52)
1 ~ Lic, Gonzalez Pedrero (48 15 06)
1=.t.8, (0 29 69)
1. lejos Ortiz (46 22 19)

ATTACHMENT No, 1 to
LIEWOY Project Renewal
Forvarded in HMMA-25141

‘1 JANUARY 1965
MEXICO DF


ATTACHMENT No. 2 to
LIEWOY Project Renewal
Forwarded in HMMA-2514)


DOWN ww roe

a
eS

.

GIF Pectand

ta Do

aos

Ord

29
a1

rane



ce,

ECRET: 1300462
DIR CITE MEXI 2163
LIENVOY
DETAILED REVIEW anp PROJECT RENE AL REQUEST HMMA>25 141 BEING
POUCHED 15 gan cS.
SECRET
CEN

[secRer (eee


\
|

ONUT QUALIFIED O45
EAN AUCGL INDEXING

micron

Renewal

Reference: [.IMN-12494

‘ 1, The LIENVOY Project expires on 1 February 1965. Please
forward the recuest for renewal no later than 1 January 1965,

2. Yeur attention is directed to paragraph two of reference
wherein the Station was asked to submit a more complete renewal
request than that forwa in MA 22079,

Chester D, DAINOLD

Distribution:
i~ 2 + COS, Mexico City

Sd ~G-2¢/)_

ROT REVERENCE TO wy ‘BIGATEN STAGOL AND NUMAER oar 7
® EME - 13066 |
a CLASSIFICATION. } HGS FILE NUMBER EE

Eee



ClasncaTON

ECR

Chief, WH Divisi

A> _LIENVOY Project Renewal : SrereeeeIETEDE 7 i
tb aarenincas ‘i :

REF: HMMA-22679

1, The LIENVOY Project Renewal forwarded with
HMMA-22679 was approved on 10 April 1964 fur the period
1 February 1964 through 31 Janusry 1965, While the :
project expenses of $47,068 were concurred in, no
additional money was approved for FY 1964 ns suffictent
funds’ remained from the’ past approval to cover the
$20,530 required under this reneval request. For :
FY 1965, $26,538 was approved. :

2, The renewal request submitted by the Station,
lacked sufficient information to justify this project.
Headquarters prepared a covering aemorandum inc Luding :
additional pertinent information previous provided i
Headquarters in the progress and other operntional
reporting by the Station. It is requested that the Case
Officer read Headquarters memorandun, and that next year
the'renewal request be more complete. Your attention is
drawn to WH Field Memorandum No. 5-64, dated 17 March 1964,"
on the preparation of KUTUBE Projects.

Chester D. DAFNOLD

Attachment:
1 memo - split transmission u/s/c

Distribution:
OB1 - Mexico City

Ba APA GS
14 April 1964

Was Ne NUNEER

ROSS BENEBENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBE®

HMMW- 12494
CLASSIFICATION

cs ges

SECRET 50-6-75/1

Crates NAME

Pe eeoeeaa
So aa DISPATCH

54 use previous ECITION

