# 104-10186-10100

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10100

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ENTORMATION

REPORT MINORM LION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ACA. TAS NDE TH IDO UNNATIANON ON TAPRLALIOT O

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba/Hs1t1

SUBJECT

•Bune DEPESTRE, Haltlan

Sommunist Leader

REPORT NO. (SC1-316/02627-64

GATE DISTR: 17 December 1964

NO. PAGES

1

REfERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE 8

Nashington;

D.

DATE ACQ. Oc tóbet

1964

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

FIELD REPORT NO.

INFORMATION SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a serics containing personality

information provided

by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the

individuals mentloned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

24

1.

Source identified the name Rene DEPESTRE, a Haitian,

from an official)travel manifest.

He advised that DEPESTRE

and his

wife, Edith, are living in Habana, where DEPESTRE 1s,

1n effect, a salaried employee of Radio Habana, broadcasting

a program in Creole to the Haitian populace.

Source was

asked if he inew 1f DEPESTRE had a group of men for an

invasion of Haiti; source advised that DEPESTRE had no

Invasion group, but believed that DEPESTRE was scheduled to

accompany one Jean Norbert MONTERO to Oriente Province in

January or February 1964 to scout the province for guerrilla

trainee recruits, but source does not know if DEPESTRE

actually went.

Then querted regarding DEPESTRE's contacts in Moscow,

replied that he believed DEPESTRE had been in Moscow

and, therefore, would presumably havé contacts there; but

source could not name any specific persons.

5

5

1

5/MN

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

I ARMY

I AIR

NSA

IXALKX

I oCA/BR

1FBI 2

REP

CINCLANT

CINCSO #

I&NS

Nore. Bie'1 ristribution Inducared by "I")

INFORMATION RERORIVEINFORMATION-REBORT.

MH/SA/EOB:

1

HEL SUR

ICLILLA

LIE CANADA

- LX- 1829

HH/SA/HOB

#H/SA/B.

HE MADR PICI/REA

3LE/BRITISH

YO PROJECT (ANNUG/ 1!

15-2

1.11

CSCI-316/02627-64

WIL/SA/CI

HILLHAVE

511/211

DARILAS

W91?SA 8 (1), AH/P/H 3, WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

COOROIMATINO RELIN

WH,2/H BS: LD:s

1n draft| CL. HE

201-17697

401 101

---

