‘HoaT0083-10388) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

wT SEBRET aces

te HO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

| : ; . B-3649
8 Nov 1972

SUBJECT: Cuba Travel

1. .Sensitive sources have reported the travel of
SaRpaLEaaT to or from Cuba on the dates indicated below:

7 A. Gilberto LOPEZ, passport K-082533, departed
Mexico City for Havana on 20 October 1972. LOPEZ -
gave the Hotel Regis as his. Mexico City address.

B. Joseph Hugh NICHOLSON, passport A-1456167,
fs age 29, occupation writer, departed Mexico City for
a ~, Havana via Cubana Airlines on 3 November 1972.

C. The following five persons arrived in Madrid
from Havana via Iberia Flight 470 on 4 November 1972:

Name : : Passport Number
BROCK, Lina ‘ , A-1071335
: CURET, Jose | @-24333272
© FUTTERHAN, Donna 4 J-514954

_ HAINER, Margaret . . , C-1906413
- WILKES, Elizabeth "+ 3-5188093 ©

2. The files of this office contain the following .
information concerning above individuals: - es

A. One Gilberto LOPEZ, passport K-082533, departed
Mexico City for Havana via Cubana Airlines on 21 July
1969 and returned to Mexico City on 4 August 1969.

109 555

HO FOREIGN DIssi;xo DISSE ABROAD
- GPRRET :

IGENCE SOURCES
AAD METHODS INVOLVED



14-00000

Co. SERS

ey Set BE 5

iit YOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

B. The Subjects of paragraph 1C above, with name
and passport number variations, were reported in our
memorandum B-3620 dated 27 October 1972, Subject: Cuba
Travel, to have departed Mexico City for Havana on 16 -
October 1972. - os

3.. The ‘above information is being provided to your
Bureau with the understanding that it will receive no further
dissemination other than to your appropriate field offices,
without the prior approval of this office; and that any

“- reference to it in internal Bureau documents will state

only that it was obtained from a confidential source.

Please transmit rez!; via GBCTUS channel

I/SO; JWoife; jah; Nov 72 reteset
O) 1816 §& 1818; <MADRID‘290 :
Nov 72; 6 Nov 72; 6 Nov : é

Originated b
Based on: 4

Source:

Distribution;
Original - FBI (via cr7s0 _

nee - B Memo Chrono ae

- PROD MEXICO_CITF ;

- PROD QOGLACIER,

- CUBA TRAVEL

- BRII -

= PG Chrono

ft et pet pat pt

YOREIGN DISSEM/KO DISSEu ABROAD

SECRET

