“oa 10177-10206} E 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION | RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]
i HOUSE SPRECT COTELECEL ON ASS NAPIOUS SUAS? Minis
ctitunasuinceyvouem: MNCCOL A TEE Bie Ae ee st ned

ear gene iii

[is ee sdsancnewanent Bees

INCLUSIVE DATES: _
ite "CUSTODIAL UNTT/ LOCATION:

DELETIONS, UF ANY:

LMR ns
~ ROOMS

ANd AECL Dawe 7

TEVINSED BY caceear 5
(PRENT NAY) REVIEWING OFFICIAL”

4 4uesoe | '

boResz-10e

To

O52 aan



*

Se ee
one erence eee CN EIT TT

FBI DOCUMENTS:

1 OCTOBER 1959
RIBBFAN POLITICS. ACTIVITIES = CUBA

KONE

SUBJECT: SCAR NERO GUAHDTA

CLASSIFICATION: » SECRET
FILS #: MIAN 97-261 BUREAU 105-75663



i
:
'

i

DATE: 16 J

CLASSIFICAT 108: 3

FBI REPORTS:

DATE
SUBJE!

“11 MARCH 1989
MANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES

FORE

FBI FILE $:

. DATE: 30

SUBJECT:

109- a Fie

SEPTEM!
JOSEPH NM
ROBERT D

FBI FILE #: 97-231

AGENCY DOCUMENT {GOsTAtsiG FBI INFORMATION :
9
SECRET |

t

POLITICAL MATTERS~ > PANAMA
23 (BUREAU)

R 1958
EROLA; B. LEONARD BIRD;
ILLARD: UNKNOWN PILOT

0 (MIAMI)



en : ny
‘

FBI DOCUMENT 2

DATE: 1 JUNE 1959 : : :
SUBJECT: RUEEN OSCAR MIO GUARDIA

CLASSIFICATION: NONE :

FilEg: MY 97-261 : : A

!



t
f
i
b
H
:

1959
he MEROLA (SD 7053-4) (C)





( : (
Ce Speeds eta AGENCY es
GTON, U.C. 29395

ce

OGC 77-2335
UN April 1977

David M. Curry, Esq.

First Assistent U.S. Attorney
Western District of Pennsylvania
633 U.S. Post Office and Courthouse
Pittsburgh, Pennsy!vania 15219-

Dear Mr. Curry: :

Re: Joseph Raymond Merola

In response to your letter of March 10, 1977 I wish to advise you
that the Central Intelligence Agency had one meeting with Joseph Raymond
Merola prior to August 1961. In late 1960 Joseph Raymond Merola made
several telephone calls to a CIA office offering his assistance in a general
way in connection with Cuban matters, which was refused. However, on
6 Fetruary 1961 Merola claimed to have information on a Latin American
senator who ~was a “close friend and confidant" of "Che" Gugvera. Since
Guevera was listed as being the subject of foreign intelligence requirements,
the CIA employee agreed to meet with Mr. Mérol3: The meeting tock place en
6 February 1961 and is the only meeting with Merola prior to his incarceration
which you stated in your letter began In August 1961.

Mr. Merola was not employed by the Central Intelligence Agency. His
contact with the CIA could not be described 2s an undercover Government
informant as alleged in the Writs of Error Coram Nobis by Victor Carlucci -
and Daniel Hanna. This one contact on 6 February 1961 by Merola with the
GIA was voluntary on his part.

Mathew McVane, an employee of the CIA, did testify in San Diego in
November 1975 concerning CLA contacts with Joseph Raymond Merola.
citation we > have for that case is U.S. v a



oe Ace on

‘The tustimony given in that trial is not inconsistent with the response given
above. Itis true that after Merola was reizased from prison he again
volunteered information to the CIA. Moerota was a voluntary source of forvign
. "intelligence.

Thepe this provides suffietent information for you te file your response.
If not, Please call me at (AC 703) 351-7531. ;

Sincerely,

nn K. 4
late General Counsel

ce: John Martin, Esq-, Dept. of Justice

neces.



(3 Gactassirteo:

comet,

SE ONLY a 0 cor DENTIAL (SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
BEBE, Ome
Joseph Raymond Merola
. Maurice A. Sovern
7 0/SA/00/0
2p0109
TO: {Ofc deugnanon, room member, ond
teen)

Tr. Raymond Warren
c/ta

8 April 1977

te whom,

Sn qs.

COMMENTS (Member soch comment to drow from whom

‘Drow a Lne ovens column ote each comment.)

sor 610 ee

ios

OO secaer CONFIDENTIAL

fa

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

(UNCLASSIFIED


FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY jun,

Pia aeai a aeearai ic
WTIGATION 8 April om

Fae
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. John K. Greaney :
Special Assistant to the :
General Counsel

FROM : Maurice A. Sovern
: 0/SA/D0/0
SUBJECT 5°: Joseph ’R. Merola i

REFERENCE 1 Assistant United States Attorney.
Pennsylvania Letter,-10°March 1977,
Subject as Above : cea

1. The question in reference. is the nature of
any involvement of Merola with CIA prior to
August 1961.

2. The Directorate's first recorded ,contact
with Joseph Raymond Merola prior to August 1961
occurred on 6 February 1961. It followed a series .
of zelephone calls over a period of several months '
» (late 1960 - early 1961) in which Merola had
expressed.interest in offering his assistance in
connection with Cuban matters. Our officer had
declined contact until 6 February. when Merola
clained to have information on a Latin Ameri
senator who was a "close friend and confidante"
of "Che" Guevera.. Because Guevera was the proper
subject of foreign positive intelligence ¢ollection
Fequirenent our officer agreed to a meeting.

3. The last recorded contact, except for the
litigation outlined below, with Merola was a tele-
phone contact with Merola in late Juiy 1975 when
he volunteered additional foreign positive intel-
ligence. E
4, At the end of August 1975, Merola : :
contacted a staff officer to ask for testimony in if . oe
the criminal fraud trial.in San Diego Califor . ‘

" “(U.3. v. Joseph R. Merola, et al, Southern ‘District avaee
of California, CR 74-2277:GT) which we subsequently. aa ates

£2 (MPDET
CL RY 012860
FOR CIh OFFICIALS ONLY



ae : FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY

provided on 13 November 1975.

$. Subject is characterized as a voluntary
occasional source of foreign positive intelligence
who was in sporadic contact with us.

6. We greatly appreciate the Assistant United
States Attorney's concern for the confidentiality
of our information.* The information above may be
made available, to the AUSA and the court as
appropriate without further restriction.

/>

Maurice A, Sovern .

0/SA/DO/O:MASovern:kaw . (1542)

Distribution ©
Orig & 1 - OGC
i -- C/DCD
1 - C/LA
2 - SA/DO/0 i
epee
FOR.CIA OFFICIALS ONLY



SPEED LETTER

PePLy REQUESTED

EE

A revien of
volved spe

nie





. thi
2 Aprii 1977.

17 March 1977
\ .
MEMORANDUM FOR: $2/LA/ETCO : : :
DCD
FROM 2 Frederic McCaan
1SS/PICG
SUBJECT : Litigation: Joseph R. Merola_

i. Attached

‘ an unclassified memorandum
received from OSC requests information on the’ "extent
and nature of. any olvement of (Joseph R.) Merola with
federal agencies prior to August 1961".

2. A review of 201-237894 reveals that Nr. Nerola nay
have been in contact with RH/Miami in 1961 and was in contact
with DCD prior te 13617>-——-——"——___

3. Please review your files and provide whatever
information is pertinent to paragraph 1., above. No
information will be released outside of CIA without your
concurrence.

4. 201287804 is attached to the SA/LA/EICO « copy of
Renofandum. “Please return it with your reply by

Binet y, ‘a a * eae
oe BU canto, oe a
seit Frederic McCann . i:

AAO CUTIE
RECN TEAL





t, “actively ongaged in the service

dau ant Daniel J. Sap.
dee, Kaew Norcia as 2 20.
gent ar therelere “perpetrated 3

Grovm which is stl pending. But aa
olicial famiar wita their pisinva

‘suid the twa jodzes willy it mecessary;~ hen asked by Toe Bullen about

sneak they dul oot anow Meroia.was 4
‘governrpent agent, :

Cuban Connection:
‘The answze to this whole thing te
volves aroued Cuba.” said ths off
Cia ee

Greea, woo represents Manratino’s
son-intaw, said be didn't thine Ms
Tola's testimony fa Chicago bad bees
Particularly “heipht” to wre! prose

Cution. A “imore logical assumption”
{5 that Merola was freed from prison ~
because of shat be could do for-the -
government in Cuba, be said, +--+
‘This gvy works anywhere he wants
has

protected hicn in Caltiornia, Chicago~
and everywhere else. He soll has tobe
‘of value to thé government,”

One thing is certain: Merola is wel?
known in the Miaml Qubaa comms
nity and among those who have been
linked ta alleged Castro assassination
attempts... -

\.t1Joe wos an undercover agect, he
‘ras dasely associated sith te gov
erament,"” Frank Surgis: of. Misti,
told The Bulletin. “Hie ded have an as.
soclatioa with the CLA.”

‘Sturgis, who gaiced retcriety as one
of those convicced in the Watergat>

~ bueglary, was a ton Castro Heutezant
during the revolution bia served a8 a_

ations Committee said Merota was. |
“a poo Inend™ ef Egerra(Rolacco) |
Merirer, anorher of those convicted
of the Water cary. Mariner
wis B03

Bay of Pigs effict and :a other att.

Castro moves.
Toe's place wn Miami Seach w3son
the water and it was used Dy ant-Cas
eps to smingxle ars to Cuba,”
.“Mariver was one of

L can't recall” Martinez said,

woing Meruia's dxc% “Really, I can't
tell jou anythung abou
“He was corecied with helping
people bere'in Miazm agaztist the dic
tatorship of Bazsta. He might bave -
been in some other Branch that I doa
= Know about": :
Aledo Borges. 2 Miart business
consultant and a Bey of Pgs veteran,
told a Bulletin reporter inquiring
about Merola to “please wre mt a
Teter"
“1 don’t know who you afk.” Borges.
said, “U cannot-t2ik over the tee: :
e” .. +
‘Ona investigator interested in Me
rola said the matter is “ery sensi-
ve, records are hard to come
fe sééms to fit everythins.””
investigator said. "He's a not te
speaks Spanish, he Snows Cupa "and _
2he's connected, But nobody wants 20
‘exoperate.
A Scared Mant peat
Records ‘indeed are hard to come
by. Official and unofficial attempts to
ebiain Complets reaws.of Meraia’s, |
rrésts proved fruitless, So did effats.
to determirie wist encounters Ee.
might have had with officials respoo-
‘sble for watching the nation’s Ber-
ders.
But despite the detief of some that

double agent for the CLA. He later - Mercia enjoys the protection of
worked agaiast Castro in the Bay of. goverment while at the same time
Pigs operation and has acmited ploct- being welcomed by eckanizal crime,
ing to Ki Castro, those who khow him siy-that is not 2

“1 know ase.
Joe was tavotied with he, OS as got a tinte

revolutionaries," “said Sarg’, “I

Know he had aa associatoa a:h the,

CIA, but because cf compart

mentslization, you don't know what

they're dane.”

Tied to Burglar ‘
Asouree close to the Ronse Ascassi-

Anew where he gets
foemer and they ba
fore

concerned,
“He goes around Dace (County),
is very, Very careful where be
F5e4, Joe is scared.”

i
i



SUBJECT: Court Appearance oa 13 Sovenbder 19/5, Saa Biegy, California

, .

YacVane appeared ag a witness for the

zzice Court foc the Southern District of
sigornia. The case way the

2. On 13 Sovender 1975, »
: defense at the Catted States Dis:
: California, 325 West F Street, Saa Didgo, Cab
United States of Azerica V. Dalton C. Sith, et al. MacVane vas called

ta testify by £. Mac Acos Jr., attorney for dafendant Joe verola. ln
honor of thé scdzcena HacVane appeared at the.court. On 13 Novembec 1975

ac _approxizately 16:30 nours Sia Diego tics tucVane was called to the

: witness stacd—. *

“2. Kae Arps, arcortey for gefendant Joe Marola began questioning
after MacVane was svorn in as a witness. ‘Anos asked how long MacVane
had-beea enployed by the CIA? -He asked if MscVane knew defendant Merola?
He-asked if -MecTaze vere told by! Merola about'a shipmene of surplus
“helicopter parts going to the coimery of El Salvadcr? He asked MacVane
1€ Merola had velssteered other information to the Agency? He thea asked
fe if Merola vere ever paid for suck taforzaticn? Amos also tried tu establish
x - the value of surslcs parts ia Lacin Acerica compared to the US. This was
objected to by actorney Robert Thaller, prosecutor in the case. The judge
a sustained the otjeczica aad Yac¥aze did-not have to ansver the question.
Anos finished bis questioniag and Taller begaa a shore crpss examination.
“Thaller asked if MacVaze ever beard Yerola rention stocks? He also asked
i€ MacVane Imes. the naneof che corporation that Merola represented? He
thencpoiated out: thst even-if. sone stock fraud vere occurring, MacVane
would -not be wizcing because MecTane vas not an investigator, but rather
a collectc: of foceiga isforna The cross exanination ¢hen ended.
All questions were ansvered to the best of MacVane's ability and knowledge.

_ 3. There appeated to be litels puépose in tne appearance of MacVane
because it vas obvicus that MacYaze knev nothing of any value coricerning
the case. “MacYate'’s torai tise oa the wimess stand was about 10 minutes.
After complecicz cf bis cestincay MacYane was released.

; Breck Oe Ate
NCtacVane:13h iit : : VA

E2 IMPDET CL BY GL1653



Senora wii

“UNCE Sst,

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

[RECOMMENDATION

; RETURA

i SIGRAT URE,



asd

as

SECRET

6 November 1975

MEMO FOR RECORD:

RE: MEROLA, Joseph R.
201-257804 ‘
U.S. Citizeti Registered to DEA/MIAMI Dec 74

FYI>
‘Teday, Randy Daugherty, DCD case officer,
asked to borrow subject 201 because he
wanted to take it to Office cf Genl. Counsel
for Mr. John Greany,

There is to be a meeting today between
Mr. Greany, Bob Starling, DCD COPS, and
Matt McVane, DCD man in Miami who is
visiting Hqas. McVane has an interest
in MEROLA, ‘

Told Randy that MEROLA was DEA source and that
matter should be coordinated with NARCOG,

This transpired during lunch hour - Randy was
in a hurry and I gave him-file. He said he would
tell Mr. Gréany that Subj. was DEA source,

Le .

SECRET



oce 75-1073 |

5 November 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Joseph Raymond Merola

joned in Miami, and he said that he had received the subpoena
“Mae Amos, Jr. to appear as a defense witness in the trial in
lovember <"Mr..:MeVane agreed to come to Headquarters
 November-to discuss 1 ¢ information in tne files and Mr. Robert
Starling of DCD agreed to join in the meeting. “Mr. McVane told me

thaf Lt. Colonel Douglas W. Haldane, who had previously been on
detail to the DCD Miami Office, had returned to the Army and was

currently assigned somewhere in Europe and that his address was
jew York 09403:

ra Since th ‘Gitice had received a letter from Mr. Ames with a
equest for the current address of Colonel Haldane, I called Mr. Amos
‘on. 4 November and explained to him that Colonel Haldane was no longer
with the Central Intelligence Agency and it was our uncerstanding tnat
ionel Haldane was stationed in Europe. Mr. Amos did not want the
current address cf Colonel Haidane~ He did state, however, that Mr.
McVane would not be nzeded in San Diego until Wednesday morning,
12 November. As things stood now, Mr. Merola was the tifth defendant
and it would be that length of ame betore Mr. MeVane's testimony vould
be needed. sesits

3. Mr. McVane told ine that he had been called by Mr. Rubere
‘Thaler of the U.S. Attor: 4 Office In California. [cold Mr. MeVane
that L would contact Mr. Thaler. I called Mr. Thaler who is aa member
of the Organized Crime Sutxa Force, Departnent of Justice, Room 2307,
300 North Los Angeles Street, Los Angeles, California 90C12, telephone
No. (AC 213) 688-5808. Mr, Thaier waa pieased to hear shat Mr. McVane



“~ ~

was being made available to testify and explained that he thought Mr.
Amos had aircady prepared a motion to d:s=iss if Mr. McVane was to be
denied as a witness for the defense. I expiained ir. Thaler that Mr.
McVane was coring to Headquarters on Thursday, 6 November, and said
that we would call him to discuss the role Mr. McVane played in receiving
information from Mr. Merola.

4. If this case runs parallel to many criainal prosecutibns, the
defense may never put Mr. McVane on the stand when he actually shows
up as this may prove detrimental to their defense. However, we should
be prepared for his testimony if, in fact, it does take place.

¥


3. :
Jorn T Molt
ohn Stysised Prosdas -

Harnson A Motlpeood
Dougisa A Reynosa
Dawd We Autt

Michaol i New

Dan h. Couprey

The mae H Ault,

E Mac Ames Jr.
Thomas M:Oymos _-

Office of:
Central In:

Washington,.D.C. © 20505

HOLT, RHOADES AND HOLLYWCOD
A onoressionay commonanae
ATTORNEYS AT Law
1010 S€COmO avenue. sure ed
SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA 92101

the General Counsel
telligenée Agency

Ares 4.

Telephone 238-1772

ur firm Zepresents Mr. Joseoh Merola who is

ster presently“on trial as a defendant in the Southern
District of California in an acticn entitled United

States of
GT). Ino:

testimony

America v. Daltor saith, et al.
der to.property defend Mr. Merola,

of Col. Douglas Haldane.

(No. 74-2277-
we reed to

utilize the testimony of Mx. Matt MeVane and possibly the
We understand that

Mr.:McVane is. employed by the Central Intelligence Agency
out of the Miami office. we also understand
that: Col- Douglas Haldane is employed by the Central
Intelligence ‘Agency but we do not have an address for

and: works

" Service: upon Col. Haldane.

“Enelosed you will find copies of Subpoenas

“issued for Mr. McVdne: and Col. Haldane. These Subpoenas

require-the attendance of the individuals in the Southern
District of California at San Diego, California on

November 11, 1975 at 9:00 a.n. Enclosed you will also
find a copy of the Order signed by Judge Gordon Thompson
authorizing the issuance of the Subpoena for Mr. McVane.

Since we do not have an address for Col. Haldane at ae

Ss time, the court has not approved the issuance. of

a Subpoena, for -him in which the covernment would be

responsible for all of the expenses and costs.

request th,

order to allow him to testi

| We hava been infornéd by

MeVane
3 pproval of
canitestify in this matter. Accord:
at he be granted the necessary appr
in this matter.

that it

£ your office
ingly, we
Oval in

In addition,

we yequest trat we be provided with an address for
Col, Haldane and that he also be aliowed to.teseity in

Uris cose, |

we would appceciace eeing advised

3* s9un as



> EMayab

_information with re:

Office sf the General Counsel
October 28, 1975
Page Two

atm

‘
possible with respect to whether these pérsons |will be
available for testimony. if we can provide any additional

ct to this case, please do not
Thank you for

hesitate to contact ‘the uadersigned.
your courtesy and cooperation.

Very truly yours,

(OADES & HOLLYWOOD
=

wp CAE Ban

HOLT,

E. Mac Amos, Ir.

Enclosures ©



uaewtes “aR amend
Mortea Btondant MEROLA
1910-Sccond-Aver; ~“Sukte E712

San ‘BEEYa,. CA, 92101.

Received this subpoena af oe oan .
staat f : I served it on the -

and on
within. named ae oe
by delivering a copy to and tendering? to the fee for one day’s attendance and the mileage

allowed by law.

Service Fees : oe

oe : jae
¥ iptaies i
| |
FOR THE 5
worsen) DISTRICT OF GALT? t
UNITEO STATES OF AMERICA
DALTON C. SMITH, et al. || Ee
Tparr McVANZ ad aaes
You are hereby coininancied to appear in the United States District Court for the :
jouthern
trict : ae in the city: of — *
a oo : * 325 West E :
OF Hifi, |” BK 6 wage o'clock’ BL to
San Dieso Peh, Nevenber. .
testify in the above-entitled case. .
-This subpcena is issued on application of {22} Gane |
Octebex-23——-— Nhs

.ead pan ascvicg of a subpoena issued in behalf of the Garter
sor ehsit of a defendant who ta francially unabie to yay

Bech coats (hale AT (b)y Federal Lutes Crinunat Brace



Sisi
FOR THE
SOQUVEERY DISTRICT OF CALTON:

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 7
74-2277-GT
DALTON C. SMITH, et al.

To.
COL. DOUGLAS HALDANE

You ars hereby commanded to appear in the United States District Court forthe |
. Southern
: Ef in the city ot

: - District of

Salitornia - Lo. “fas west z stzeet
oe it I M. to
san Diego: 7 Ezen 9 Sovenver sto oc o

“; testify inthe above-entitled case.

hi subpoena is issued on applic cation of gant

caeauee zy 75°

Dipniy Clerk.

San Siege, CA 92101, RETURN. SS : \
Received this aubpoei Peat on; sc N

‘and on sat 7 + che I served it on the \-
‘within named : eee teat edtetui mete :

_ by deliveting a copy to and tendering to the fee for one'day’s atteridance arid the mileage

allowed by law. ' :

may be.
ens ea service of a subpoonn ssaured in Uthail of the United
‘Or 01 Uchilf of a defentant who t fnamady Laauic W pay

an wilicer of axeney the
sich coats (Rule 17 (b), Federat Mules Geinnnal Broceure):

\

XL

H
]
!

RT CSE ay ee arene raeeeerenennerecenceee


te

ar uw

‘A Paortinonal Echioaation --
ATTonncys:

WOLEYEOGT
cond Avenue, Suite 171?

(OR. MEROLA, Cor 22 i975

OISIICT OF CA

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, a
NO. CR 74-2277-cr

Plaintité,.

SUBPOENAS =

subpoenas requiring

Stanton on_ Novenber 11, 1975 at ‘9:00 a.m. in this court and,

further, that all costs’ and feas in relation to the attendasce|

said witnesses shall be borne by the United States under the
provisions of the Criminal dustice Act.

DATED: _OCT 22 1975

ie *aktendance of Mate McVane and Edward’

oo FILED

CRY, US DiSTaCT COURT

ORDER FOR ISSUANCE oF

1 gee Bys-e GORDOM THOMPSON, JR
\ CIMDON THINPSON %
\ 4s, DISTRICT JUDGE.

SOUTHERY DISTRICT OF CALIFORN

v
2



MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Joseph Raymond Merola ‘
1, On 23 October, Mr. Robert Starling of DCD called to say that
Matthew McVane (phonetic), a DCD officer wno is stationed in Miami
Florida, had received a telephone cali from a San Diego attorney saying
i : that he was mailing @ Subpoena to him. The attorney, E. Mac Amos, Jr.,
: _is 4 meumber of the iaw firm of Holt, Rhodes and Hollywood at 1010 Second
Avenue, San Diego, California 92101, telephone No. (AG 714) 238-1712.
- Mr. Amos advised Mr. McVane that the subpoena was for his appearance
| on. behalf of Mx. Merola who was on trial in San Diego.

£2. . Mrs Starliag indicated that the charges against Merola kad

‘Som thing to do with exporting airplane parts without a license. I called
iMrz.Clyde Bryant, Office. of Munitions Control, Department of State, to

jetermine if this prosecution was related to 22 U.S.G. 1934. -Mr. Bryant
‘ealled back and said that Merola was one 2f seven defendants being tried
“ou criminal fraud charges for having engaged in 2 flimflam operation
‘against the Salvadorian. government.‘ The scheme was to establish a ee
facility in Salvador to assemble and s-rvice helicopters." The group had
“Sassembled a collection of Army surplus parts for helicopters and was in
“the process of shipping them without an export license and they were
seized by U.S:iCustoms officers on 21 February 1974. Mr, Bryant
.. indicated that the Assistant U.S. Attorney in San Diégo in charge of
“the prosecution was a Mr. Robert Thaller, telepkone No. (AC 714) 293-5668.
Mr.. Bryant also indicated that an individual by the name of Henry Maier- ~~
“hoffer: was also one of tne defendants and it was Mr. Bryant's recollection
that Maierhoffer had some previous connection with CIA. °

“3. I called Mr; Starling and reported this information to him and
he. said that, Mr. Merola was a real operator in the Miami area, always
involved in some scheme to buy and sell weapons but that he had volua-
teered information to the DCD Office, some of which was useful. I asked
Mr. Starling to have:Mr. McVare call me when he got the subpoena but
that he would not have to go unless they furnished the travel funds.

fohn K. Crean

fociate General Counsel

ec: Chief/DCD
Distributicn - OVER



bem CONFIDENTIAL

conen FARES tay

“30 dan._.3975

201 File cn U,S, Citizen

The 201 file on Lieroks (surname) (291 number indicated below)
can be most accurately be categorized a9 indicated below:

—— should be closed,

— witting collaborator. OF Code Al.

OI Code A2,

1]

potential witting collaborator; date opened

former wicting collaborator (relationship terminated), OI Code A3.

potential witting collaborator never contacted (security reasons,
derogatory information), OI Code Ad.

counterintelligence cace (i,e,, involving @ foreign intelligence or
security service). OI, Code AS.

1]

all others, OI Code AG. ISR

Signed SE 2 C/LSN/ISR :
z rn titie component)... - a

‘This assignment of category has been ‘entered into STAR,

Signed y 1975
Initials) Catey

Thia document in a permanent part of this file.

iH

21- POPPI | - .

Conta E2 INPUET ;
CL BY 002716 4

(wren FARE tay


YEroUING MESSAGE .*

i = aa

On 0 0 6 og

C RET
Sue ies oo etseseemmuascemmece
STAFF 102. PARECTOR arr
a

cow: LAB ro: rue ipphisaie. psf] Dam and
iia Teper Lb, 8 ea

TO: LA/MIANT INFO CARACAS ¥

7
.

MHABYSS PBRAMPART :
REFS A. Lasmtant 22730 JIN ¥32300s1 {NOT NEEDED CARACAS|

“Bs DIRECTOR 630872 Jax] (NOT NEEDED CARACAS

ce

cs L- “JOSEPH RAYMOND MER OLA 203-2578043 /uas REGISTERED IN

_. ISR TO DEA/NIANE ON 18 DEC 74 AS A COOPERATING INDIVIDUAL FOR USE IW

HAITI-AND COLOMBIA. IT IS REQUESTED THAT LA/NIAMZ ADVISE DEA/NIANT
TO CONTACT THE FBI AND DEPARTMENT OF STATE FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ON MEROLAs ¥
FOR CARACAS

ee.

LATE 1950'S. WE REPLIED THAT HEROLA HAD NEVER ee

, ALTHOUGH WE WERE AWARE THAT HE HAD MADE SUCH CLAIM: PeianBE

PREVIOUS INSTANCES. ¥

—= :
3. FILE: “@0L-257804. £2. INPDET.d a 226 i
i i a REF A REQUESTED TRAC
pare: 8 JANUARYN\297 2 REGISTRATION OF
onc: DARYL GET UH AE Digprntes HEROLA”
UNIT: LA/CARZCA LasNaR@—ZEL'ys REF 8 FORUARDED TRACES.

on: Le,

?
16 hee ——~ srormncae thts oF
ALFORSO SPERA

.
as “4 “PHILLIES ;
a _ ute A teearcan
ae eeccersrere ore ie RAVE Ob ICE IS PROsdmTEN ee
Teun Gort i v = 2 impver

ee eee Cu BY: OLOLLE



USE ONLY.

1 Ua classiFiED (es HATERWAS Oc CDENTIAL fa) SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHECT

SuBECT iCprenaty
REGISTRATION REGU
itu '

OPS/13%i

NTERAGENCY SOUnCE REGISTER BU-5 | 1c68/ . |
: sous [Fy g DES wie

oomncens | COMMENTS (Number each comment ta show from —hom

TO: {Offer deugnaren, room inmber, ond
| INTIALS! | wrom. Grow ohne axons calm etter soxh comment)

esdang)

1

\. TP/AIS
ET-3

* Ip/Lpr
or-6

Sr COs OH seceer OC courte Oy OG



fB2 9 Eeraitele

Gul, 197A ~FOL

SECRET.

1

eg deeeat era

]oce

No Objection ¢.

urteization,

00 NOT WRITE BELOW THIS SPACE

SECRET

weet



SECRET

(aden ilted Bo

: REQUEST FOR REGISTRATIGN IN THE INTERAGENCY SOURCE REGISTER”
i HEQUESTER: Daryl eamx Getster = W/CAR/ 1°"9 "ee taza

toe

[2o1- - 257804

Por

raarton fouriviraricn

L s i
SRO Cheats Firat, widdiey and OFINATINGS

MEROLA, Joseph Raymond

RUaSES sano O8 FPELL INE VATIATIONS

axte oF siatw | FRE iF errr

“9 Oct 1925 WEW JAISEY is Bs

135 Dupont Plaza,. Miami, Fla

CECUPATTON

4° : : : Pilot —

FSpTHIggAL TCERTIFVING DAVE (racTading FeTereneea}
2’ Based on LA/Miami 22730 IN 432300, 3 Dec 74 (attached)
~ ‘Traces sent DIRECTOR 630872, 6 Tec 74 (attached)

Send cards to UFP 872 HVC HLB HTP

TesaTs TwACE RESUCTS

f

TO7ETS BERRA

(OUTGOING CABLE)
NAI TO THAT KNOWN TO THE REQUESTER (630872)

16 ec 84

Tsaw wousee

VSR REPLY TO REQUESTER: oe
18 Dec 74 39,170

. Nothing in addition to that ak known by the requester. map
For possible further nforsiation.you are referred to the FBI
and the Department of State. aes

Subject who is hereby registered in the ISR to DEA Miami,
EVB

Tess, seems

. The ISR has no record of ‘a current operational.interest in Shuerk

RESIN QO2ANG ae sae 2

i


roe sere 2 - oe

: . ;
sees enc onsen oll eee Sep Isa
: po aeene

preson usir moreno

Pag

tla! ; efeselal

wns 1S

Y 617599 ETA2ge

SECRET O322142 DEL 74 STAFF
CITE LAsMLAME 22730
t BH TORLTYYD IREC TOR,
RYDAS-*CHH ABYSS PERAMPART
REFL UFPS=1727, 25 OCT 74
te pgeasd paov 108 PRIORITY TRACES ON THE FOLLOWING
DEA nanctt 162 SOURCE AND REGISTER IN THE INTERAGENCY
SOURCE fee Sice asain
“ eagerszaaynao MEROLA (adl- 957304)
pros: 9 Oct 25 IN Kew veERsEY 4)
Uis. citizen
occ) PiLor
ADDI 135 DUPONT PLAZA, MIAMI, FL.
_. LOCATION GF USES. COLOMBIA AND HAITE spare uae uaanauaae
2. PER REF, ATT. NO. 2 PLS PROVIDE PRIORITY
TRACES ON-DEA NARCOTICS SoURCE,

AND ADVISE IF REGISTERED IN

tsa,

By Fite 2eQride11!  2CeiteL1/17, E2 IMPDET
linn ud | Ae —Mbwl Jo}

SECRET.



E Stet et due tak

Au 09 DOCUMENT EXIF ACT Pade esac tne nes

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUSJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN FXTRACTES F204 2NCTHE® OFFICIAL 09 FILE.

_. PERSONS PERFCRMING NAME TRECES A7E CAUTICNEO THAT THE DOCU. _..
MENT FROW WHICH THIS EXTRACT weS CREPAPED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL _
INFORMATICN PERTAINING TO. THE SUEYECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED.

_. MEROL Ay JOSEPH RAYMCND an ae
_.. 201-0257804. . 202-011-O11/19
—.-SEXM 008 09 OCT 25 L#IN-22730 |
. POB USA, NJ 03 OFC 74

_CIT USA.
Occ PILO

[PES USA, FLAy MIAME, 135 CUPCNT PLAZS, TPACES
NA

“ee

“SECSET



“= SEARLT =

o CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

. Wasninctom, D.C. 20505

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Lucien E. Conein
Acting Chief, Special Operations and
Field Support Staff
Office of Intelligence -
Drug Enforcement Administration

VIA: Mr. John Warner
Chief, International Intelligence Division

SUBJECT: Name Trace

REFERENCE: Memorandum, Same Subject, SEC-IGI-74-0037,

dated June S, 1974

1, The matter of Joseph R. Yevcla (Reference) has been
discussed between Mr, Richard Kobakoff of your office and
Mr. Stanley Archenhold of this office. Mr. Merola has never
worked for this Agency, although we are aware he has made
such Claims on a nuaber of previous instances.

2. It.is-suggested that you contact the Federal Bureau
of Investigatien for information concerning Merola.

Semenn ®. nalton
Seymour R. Bolten

Special Assistant for
Narcotics Control Operations

“DONC 74-052

THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED ABROAD OR
OUTSIDE THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE RECEIVING AGENCY
WITHOUT PERMISSION OF THE ORIGINATOR

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF
E. 0. 11652, EXEMPTION CATEGORY: SB (2)
DECLASSIFICATION DATE: IMPOSST2LE TO DETERMINE
CLASSIFIED BY 903604
ao

eroner



SEURES

.
* Done 74-052

DDO/OPS/NARCOG:S.Archenhold:el

L Lf Coer)

COORDINATION

Distribution:

Orig. § 1 - Addressee
1 - WH/NARC
1-
1-

201-257804 :
DDO/NARCOG DONC File



R
abd,

ae

oe th actin eee


DISPATCH [veces

chief of Station, es orang ancl

Or eas 8

Chief, Kestern Hemisphere Division

atom AROS ITERDNCTS

Headquarters requested. LNER30 traces on Larry A. Carr,
because of his business association with Joseph R. Hero Ta.

Trace results were negative.

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig. & 1 - COS,
E2 IMPDET
zi TL BY 031685

mAD
Marilyn A. DAKOSKI

ROSS tifiRmMcT 10 | Ton eae aoe ——
. ers I.
__HSSW-31586 typed 1 Apri? 1978
‘caaaiion yar moni anna
: i
SECRET | 201-257808
7 . crea ;
aT a a
1 = Chrono WH/2/6S \yPattl Burke cll 1454
eCen

errr

c= TP/AN



teteree : fee 22 March 1974

arms David L. Snook

Chief, Dovesiic Collectica Divisioa eee

Your Uemorandus af 11 berth 1974

- . 7.4. For your fnforration, subject bas beea @ volunteer source -
‘ines 1961. DoD 4a avare of his unsavory record, but he has frow

tinseto-tine preduced informatica of iaterest.

on 2. Deo wishes t advise you, hovever, that re have brows +

“eat contact with Marola. Fhould be contact DCD sais, we are *
cdligatod to Listen politsly, take dows his taforsation for

. transaittal to the appropriate arse desk, and nase absolutely no

_ Préaisns for future contact. ee :

3. Pleas direct further ioquiriss to Mr. Zvaa B. Ames,
DCn/Support Branch/Cperaticeal Support Section, Roce 910, Key
* Bulldtng,, cxteasioa 2283. :

° BVAN B. AMES/> -
ce: Services Branch (Control)



b

NET,

cone

FUTON:
: GIVEN

LASSIEL
PLE



t
i

. 11 Narch 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: Domestic Collection Diviston

ATTENTIONS Hr. Shaun P. Ryan
SUBJECT: Joseph R. HEROLA
REFERENCE: HH 25826, 8 January 1974

¥.. On 10 “Sanuary, 1974 the HH/2/GS desk recetved the

reference¢ semorandum froa the Domestic Collection Division
Andicating the Miami field office had been tn contact with one
Joseph R. MEROLA. HEROLA had Just returned from a business

trip to El Salvador; and he reported that a friend of his had
identified a Hr. Gremiliion in the Political Section of the
Acertcan Embassy in San Salvador as a suspect CIA representative.
Headquarters traces on Joseph R. MERLA tndicated that on ‘several
occasions in tha past MEROLA had claimed that he was 4 CIA

- agent. -The Chief of Station, the Hr. Grewiliion referred to

above, was recently questioned regarding any Eubassy contack
with HEROLA while the Jatter was in San Salvador. The COS
stated that both within the Esbassy community and 2¢ soctal
functions MEROLA had frequently referred to his contact with
the CIA, past and present. He also volunteored this infor-
mation to a former Station contact.

2. In light of the above, 1t would appear that MEROLA

‘ had taken advantage of nis agency.contacts. in an inappropriate

manner to the potential embarrassment of the San Salvador
Statisn.. We would, accordingly, appreciate that. this be given
due consideration in your assessment of the advantage of your

continued contact with hin.

David L. Smock
, C/uHs2

Ez nPoET
ch BY 909407



Auriaccs rome as
Shen aay or vse,



_§_February 1974

Patti Burke _WH/2/6S

n33" 1831



ao
@ a
\
\
\
aa E
i |
: ! ie >
DOCUMENT (PASSPORT DIVISION)
FEERUARY 197
CLASSIFICATION: HONE 3
‘ FILE #2 NONE
+ i



STATE DEPT _ROCUMENTS: ‘i
DATE: = 1
‘SUBJECT:
CLASSIFICATION: ENTIAL

NO FILE # GIVEN (DOC g#: SAN SALV. 0568)

DATE: 5 FEBRUARY 1974

SUBJECT:

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
NO FILE # GIVEN (DOG #: SAN SAL. 0048)

DATE: 5 FEBRUARY 1974
SUBJECT:

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDERNDIAL

NO FILE # GIVEN Pal
DOCUMENT #: SAN SALEBVADOR O48

j
i
j



rattt,

We have cent a «rivate channel letter to
the G06 on this naiter, rotmigxatztaraemt
lag at the end for comments as to whether
TOROLA is "embaprassing": the Station of CIA
generally by talking so tuch-about hia CIA
connection&. if his re-ly is in the affirmative,
Zit will -robsbly be best for you to draft
a note to BG DCD suzgestin that ne somehow
be silenced, -erHa-s ty their withdrawing from
contact with thea since it is obd ously something
that he brags about and otherwise trie# to tnke
advantage of

Bice



Matt MacVane, DCD officer in Mimi, met wita Joseph R. MEROLA
on 1§ January 1974; at which time MEROLA identified the friend in San

Salvador who had identified @ Nr. Gremillion in the American Embassy in
San Salvador as a CIA representative. “SSaiamm~ara, NWEROLA also provided

Above 4s a note deted 24 Jenuery 1974 from patti Burke, Wi/2/GS/IA, based on
information received orally fron DCD.



a Seone;

stray REGUESIED wy 1974

rol [= roe Be :

OSS=172274

SPEED LETTER

spRyan/ds

Chief, WH/2/GS FROM: 0C0/SB/0SS
(3 B 4402 Hgs. ) [
Patty Burke

“SUBJECT: Case 61401 - Joseph Merola

E-2 IMPDET CL 8 010650 SHAUN P. RYAN eine eA

Wel

SECRET

Suv yaar torteaad


aces

stave pepr pociyfhr
paTz: | 2e-uauasy a7i
SUBJECT
CLASSIFICATION:
pocuent #2 SAN



o ena 0 conr s ()~ SECRET

(Ce UNCLASSIFIED Use ONY

SUBJECT, (promot
ase 6140 : Pee eee ee

ROMP QuBSTIZ COLD!
dupport Brenc:
i Poon 990, Key -
Mr, Shaun P. Ryan g H | 18 January 1974

om Ged dengnaton, room number, ond

LOMMENTS (Number ath comment to, show trom Som
‘Drow @ line ocvoss column alter each comment)

He WH/2/GS
Atta. Patty. Burke
__3_B 4402 _ilas. The attached: is for your
information and possible.

interest.

(OSS-142-74)

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 00122

1m 610” EC] secret C) CONFIDENTIAL UN uty

sea

(1) UNCLASSIFIED



“informed persons: that he vas a "CI2 agent”.

“telecon on 17 January 1974.

SeGnET j SENSITIVE

083-142-74
13 January 1974

HBUOKANDUW FOR THE RECORD

SUBSECT: Case 61401 - CIA Operative in B1 Salvador

BEVS : A.) MIN-006-74, 4 January 1974

” Tax DCD/Washiugton 96860, 1€ January 1974
C.) Ryan/HacYaze telecca 26 January 1974
D.) . Ryaa/BacVane telecon 17 January 1974
E.) Rysn/Matavaring telecon 17 Janusry 1974
P.) TWX DCD/Hiomi 12478, 17 January 1974
G.) TEX DCDAdisni 12476, 17 January 1974

1. ‘One of our souréds in Hiaai, Joseph Merola, revealed ~

the name and position of an tadividual reported to be an Agency

official tn El Salvador to Natt MacVane during the course of aa
intervieu on 21 December 1973. This was reported in MIK-006-74
4 January 1974. This report was forwarded to the 51 Salvador
Desk on 8 January 1974. On 16 January 1974 the Deak requested
that DCD obtain the aame of the individual mentioned in this
menorsndum who said he knew a CIA officer in the Eubassy. This
request vas pusaed by telecca aad THX to MacVane by Ryan on

16 January 1974. The El Salvador Desk also questioned the
reliability of our source, Joseph Merola, at this time and
Fequested we query Hismi ss to his reliability.

2. On 17 January 1974 at the request of MacVane, Ryan
visited the El Salvador Desk to ascertain their objections to
our source, known to us as uw convicted felon. Desk objections
Steamed: froma 1964: report which indicated that Meroln had

Further conversa-
.tton élicited the fact that Herola had again made this state-
went ia 1973 at an Bubassy fuoction. We advised the Deak that

DCD was well
had provided DCD with reliable reports in the past unrelated
to Ris own "pursuits". ~~ on

S. The El Balvador desk coafirmed the fact that the
Andividual mentioned by Merola's inforasnt as being a CIA
officer wag in fact such.. Ryan advised MacVace of this per
Vane and Mainwaring told Ryao
they vere’ sending two cables relating to this case. The first
vould provide the name of the person who reportedly knew the
CIA official. The second provided the names of tvo vornen

eaployed in the Etbassy who were reportedly involved in
B 2 IMPDET CL BY 010650

SECHET/ SENSITIVE

are of Herola's criminal background but that he



7 *.TEGRET, SERSITIVE -

compronising situations with beth Americans and locai aationsls.
Thie latter cable was -equested after the El Salvador desk
otiicer advised that all avenues an¢ possible leads vere to be
Ppursved to determine who leaked the information relating to the
CIA official. These two nares (phcactically spelled) were
provided in the seconc cable by Hiami. All of the infermatioa
received in these cabies was passed via secure phono to the

#1 Salvader desk by Ryan vpon receipt.

~ @. HaeVa.e advised Ryan via teiecon that he anticipated
meeting with doseph Xerola at 1100 on 17 Jecuary to address .
further satters conceroed with this case. HacVane advired syao
that be vould forward such information as soon as posstile.

Seca P, RYAN

ec: Hiami Field Office
cc: H/a/t5
co: BSeasitive Control Officer



SECRET 171849Z uaW 74 STEFF
CITE DCD/MIAML 12476 . Z

DCD/WASHINGTON
ATTHS SUPPORT ERANCH/03S (SeRYAND

SUBJs CASE 614F}
REF 8 OOACS) 322/82566-74
TIME JOENTITIES OF THE TWO GIRLS WHO WERE THE: SUBJECT OF
OUR TELECOM ARES
AAHCY SHALLOT
DELIA OBESA

BOTH SPELLINGS ARE PHONETIC, EUT SHOULD BE IDENTIFIABLE.

ONE IS SUPPOSEDLY SECRETARY TO mH. TAYLOR. EZ IMPDET CL BY 212658

SECRET



SECRET

= iat
SECRET 171845Z JAN 74 STAFF ee
CITE DCD/MLARI 12476 i ra
DCC/WASHINGTON me

an

2

ATTN: SUPPORT SRAWCK/CSS (S.HYAN)
Subst CASE 61421
HEF 8 OuaCs> 522/02566-74
THE IDENTITIES OF THE TO GIRLS ¥HO WERE THE SUBJECT OF
OUR TELECON ARES
HABCY SHALLOT
DELIA OBESA
BOTH SPELLINGS ARE PHOWETIC, ‘BUT SHOULD BE IDENTIFIAGLE.
ONE IS SUPPOSEDLY SECRETARY TO “Re TAYLOR. EZ IMPOET CL BY G19652

seCcRET



OUTGOING i aereaal be

drones conten ves omm

we we

onF ai G n -@. @Q@ 2

SECRET

ira au vee carer oneue ae

STAFF 1753004 DIRECTOR so2zsy y
Oo me orssem ar, AF

con: WAS — inso: rut iif. ) OO,

TO? PRIORITY INFO UH/MIANE.

EREFS: As 20b85 JIN-339b84sh =~ > -

B. HH/HIANT 20664 JIN 135313=81
Ce eM/nrAnE 2cuas LIN 1377308ea1 7
Ls FOLLOUING INFO.IN ADDITION TRACES REF B:. JOSEPH RAYMOND

HEROL A {201-2576043- PER DBA bA712. 23 APR bY. SUBJ CLAIMED HE
CIA AGENT AND ALLEGED CIA OBTAINED PRESEDENTIAL PARDON FIVE YEAR
PRISON SENTENCE FOR RUNNING GUNS CUSA- IN ADDITION CLAINED CIA
ISSUED FASSPERT IN NAME MICHAEL JOSEPH ME ROL A FOR. TRAVEL

CENTRAL AMERICA.
2. PER H@S RECORDS. MEROLA NOT CIA AGENT. BUT HAS BEEN DCD

CONTACT SINCE EARLY SIXTIES-

3- 232 DEC 73. NERCLA CONTACTED DCB. MIAMI TO ADVISE HE RECENTLY.
SPOKE WITH FRIEND IN SAN SALVADOR WHO UORKS FOR ANSESAL« FRIEND
ADVISED MEROLA NOT GO US EMBASSY SAN SALVADOR TO SEE A MAN NAMED
GRENILLION BECAUSE GREMILLION, WHO US .ZRBASSY POLITECAL SECTION
OFFICER UNDER SURVEILLANCE ON SUSPICION OF BEING CIA REP. SAN

_
Z tele 2 LIS
RECORD COPY Pi Dantong
alee aera
honestrosat REPRODUCTION OY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICEIS PROMOITED = £2” IMPOET

Secrer cl Oy goings

» SALVADOR. nEROLA TOLD FRIEND HE NEITHER KNEW NOR LOULD HAYE CAUSE TO”



OUTGOING MESSAGE

roma, crnmea uss one

onF oO a a a o a

Secret fae, “
tessa menos mecavoe ari mie eno - wivaioe mrenemcs mene
Sif DIRECTOR
O mu ose ey: +L .
CONF: IMFO: FRE SOs
O neve PER

isles Gerasy.. **
Hn e OC onmie #
SEE SUCH-A MAN. FRIEND TOLD edie A HE ONLY TELLING ut Baa HIS oY

Goop BECAUSE | IF MEROLA Sau GRERELLION. MEROLA wouL:

“CIA AGENT AS WELL. S : . : a

i 4s DCD MIAME RECONTACTED MEROLA 25 JANUARY DETERMINE ABOYS fe
TDENTITY "FRIEND" IN SAN SALVADOR... FRECOTEND IDENTIFIED, AS
O93-AN Se he Lf 234d ise)
GUILLERNO © BFE & Ry, PRESIDENT TNSAFT: HARRTED 40 SECRETARY Af
Dav
us enaasst, CuRRENTLY ou MATERNITY LEAVE: : -

Ss MEROLA To PROVIDE ADDITIONAL INFO AT MTG WITH DCD MIANT

‘17 JAN 74. “WILL ADVISE. 7
b- FILE: 201-257804- £2 IMPDET-d

UH COMMENT: REQUESTED HGS TRACES JOSEPH MEROLA, ¥HO CELAINED TO BE
AERONAEUTICAL CONSULTANT WITH PATTERSON ATRCRAFT
COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA | cee é

CE 7 lige atid dit
S#4NEGATIVE SLIGO BTRACES

PATE: 49 JAN 24 : : : oe

ons: BATTT my, apcp {DRAFT
- WH/PERNS &. LAYBOURWE {DRAFT}

“  C/UH/COG 0. BATHE {DRAFT} es

esreonucrion 8 a 1A THAN THE ISSUINOF

ents



{
1
:
T 309883 "Pace 6i-81 TN 437738 |
d TORI1516512 VAN 760° WHIM 22685

: :
SECRET 2424222 JAN 74. STAFF

CHT WH/MEAMT 22685
oo

a ni Ty TnFo DIRECTOR, | :
a .ORERA leeoss Cav [terty : :

we B. WHIMIAMI 22656 CN 135313) :
\ 1, NO ADDITIONAL SLIGO TRACES ON JOSEPH ME RCL Ae

2. FILE: 2eBe11911/3,, E-2, IMPDET,



(STATE DEPT, pocuvey
MBIZCT: _ PFOPOSED HELICOPTER 8/ ALRCRART PLANT

NO FILE # GIVEN.



Pa

pemeonse-ut woriries, SECRET

TOS tnra piRector,

REF

cca - YOSEPH Ry HE ROL Ay DPOB 9 OCT i925)
TURTLE CREEK, Pa, STATION carps FROM PERIOD 1959*1963

INDICATE AE EX=CONVICTs NOTORIOUS SMUGGLER, GUNRUNNER AND ae !

GENERAL TROUBLE=MAKER, “CARDS TO LAERGO. REPORTS” INDICATE HE : i
WAS INVOLVED IN PANAMA INVASION PLAN IN 1959) ANDIN

| DR-STOLEN- ARMS, IN 1960, HE. WAS PRINCIPAL IN ees oe

PROPOSED CUBAN ‘COUNTERFELT PESC DEALs. LNERGO WAS CONTACTED.
IN 1961, AND INDICATED THAT ALTHOUGH HE
HAD LONG RECORD, HE UNDOUSTEDLY COULE SPEAK AUTAORITATIVELY

on sStyian 5
RESTRICTION®
J ites CLASES TINBLY

bee eipesaraeeecl -iiTS TOR i :
< =o ey eee? eee re


aun ov

Paue ge-os Wiss

— aH ~ 2064

TURTLL22,92 JAN 74

FULGENCIG BATISTA, OR FOR CHARGE THAT HE INVOLVED IN THEFT OF

‘BUNS FROM NATIONAL GUARD ARMORY.*
ae swsectpior LESTED 1973 NIAMI TELEPHONE BOOK.

- LATEST AQUAESS IN CAROS 1St 2318 NORTH BAY RD» MIAME

)
BEACH, FLA, NE WAS VISITED AT THIS ADDRESS iN 4981 SY MR

: OF SLIGO. URGANTZATION, WHO DESCRISED HOME AS "PALATIAL",

3, ALTHOUGH WE HAVE NQ HECENT INFO ON SUBJECT, SUGSEST

THAT RES PLANS ESTASLISH HELICOPTER PLANT IN SAN SALVADOR
MAY HAVE SHADY SIDE, POSSIGLY SMUGGLING ARMS OR LUCRATIVE

# WARGOTICS TRAFFIC, :
4, SINCE Suay IS U.S, GIT, REQUEST AGoVE INFO NOT 3g PASED. ~

; : LIAISON GR OTHER U,S, GOVT AGENCIES WITHOUT HOS APPROVAL,

Sy WILL CORMARD PERTINENT SLIGO TRACES,

6, FILEt 2cde1dedis3; Sez, IMPDET. . .
‘ : 4
“ + :
wy
|
i
;
ry t a
4 . .
§
a



ovsnee ov F_un

Penson unit monrien, =|

PAGE 1-01

TORt1213222 YAN 74

SECRET Se25z5z yAN 74 STAFF oe :
CITE SAN SALVADOR 20685 7
TOL DIRECTOR INFO KMANIAMI, 09s 7804 :

ROLAs AGE 48)

gal.

dy REQUES. TRACES ON-MR, JOSEPH

K BORN PENNSYLVANIA, RESIDENCE QS MIAMI SHORES; FLORIDA,

MEROLA CLAIMS BE AERONAUTICAL CONSULTANT WITH PATTERSON
AIRCRAFT COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA, HE SUPPOSEDLY TRYING
ISH HELICOPTER PLANT EL SALVADOR,

NEGOTIATE DEAL To ESTA
DURING TALKS AY SOCIAL PARTIES WITH EMBASSY PERSONNEL HE
INDIGATED PREVIOUS WORK WITH BKHERALD.

2. FILE: OGFER. £2 [MPDET

K Gve'd . . ; :

secRer

RECORD COPY |



rt)

se
~ 2 udctassirien Use OMT

of SUMECT One

__._ CIA Operative sal
from. DOKESTIC COLLFertoy DIVIstow
Support Branen, ‘9,

‘ROUTING AND RECORD. SHEET

is Saisie

“CD cone.” wriat 1 secre

| S
Room 900, Key Buttstng ot, SUPP Section ARP 8826
°, Sing = ¢: ‘
Mr. Shaun P.-Ryan ove Bevis He 8 January 1974
Mag Sree en mee. tT Ga iS enbee each comment te show hem hom

whem Drow 0 fine crs celvina her each comment}

1 CAWH/2765
Attn. Kathy kaurer

3.B_4402 Has.

10 Jan

he attached Memorandua.
M-006-74;, is for your
interest and retention.
Please advise us at your

earliest convenience of
- any additional interest

or Yequirements in. this
matter. honk you,

CI/OP/NH

ec:

=

tka -

1 ty call bed fabio
ati Meptla ye Lit ole

WV seed fa Mere fda
| Gls le s ccpth ebtice ate

Cy tipi el

|

i
if

i/ bo shld,

aust

aed

K 2 IMPDET CL BY 007622

a: Seeceeace

S10“ CT secret] ConFioenTiaL

[Pesce = whee
Q

TATON AL

USE ONLY C1 unctassirien


MIM-006-74 :

;, TO? Chief, Darestic Collection Division Aa 4 Jomury 197% a
' apr: Support Branch/0s3 (JGross) \
FROM : Chief, Mimi Field office >?
: ‘ |
. SUBJECT: TA Cyerative sn El Salvador \ ye
’ : : (anti

1. Joe Merola contacted the Miant Office An 21 December 1973 to
explain that he recently hed spoken with a friend of his in San Salvador,
El Sulvator. The friend, who allegedly works for the El Salvadoran
Sceret Service, told Nerola thet vhin he (Merola) cones. to El Salvador
not to go to the US Embassy to cee a nan nuncd Vermillion. The friend
{pBr told Kerola that Vermillion 19 the Cosnereial Attache at the exbassy
SU and dn under surveillance because he is suspected of being the CIA man
t in San Salvador. Merola told his friend that he dia not know a man
eo ‘3S named Vermillion, nor wowld he ever rave cause to sce such a man. The

friend then told Herola that he yas only telling hin for his own good,
and that if he rola) were to sce this Vermillion that Merola would
Decone a euspected CLA agent as well. : :

2. Merole said that he was passing this information to us in case
ve did inteed have a man 4n San Salvedor by the naze of Vermillion. :
Merola ‘has teen a contact of the Miemi Field Office for sore ten years, :
and during that perlod he has passed to this off‘ce some very reliable

informution.
: '
_ a
7 J Mehecer % “ (pirersteeee ene
BRUCE E, ‘MADIWARING 7
ff ;

EB 2 Deut ch BY 010650 ©

CAL

114 Dads Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

Bay US. Sav







