|104-10186-10159

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

{ CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tote material contains tnfermatica afecting the Neticoa! Detenss of tbe Cate Suates SUnLA the meaning of te Beooney Lave,
WU BC Seca, TH and TH the Lenmminice of rervietion of whare EE aay Gasiter to an Uneuthorimd pera w eroietted OF

1 SECRET
4 NO FOREIGN DISSES

COUNTRY Cuba REPORT NO. CSCI-316/01254-65

f
|
;  SUBECT “Contreras” (an alias) OATE O1STR. 18 March 1965
: Nopacss 1 a
REFERENCES: CS-311,/00115-64
if (Page 11)
DATE OF 8 July 1964
Info, 1964
pace a Washington, D. C.
ATE aca. March 1965 RAD REPORT NO.

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRASANOS ARE CEMNITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE.

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments - o a
The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. "Contreras" is chief of the Laboratorio Quimico (Chemical
Laboratory - LQ) in tho MI Section (Department of Technical
Operational Support) of the Direccion General de Inteligencia
(General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI), His superior is
Guillermo ARASTAGUIA,

2. “Contreras,” a Cuban citizen, is married to "Vidalina”
(see CSCI-316/00741-65, 16 February 1965). He was born between
1930 and 1935, is five feet seven inches tall, weighs about 150
pounds, and has a medium build. “Contreras” is a mulatto.)

Heagquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no additional identifiable
information on "Contreras .”

s SECRET ae 5
is NO FOREIGN DISSE ' s
12 a Hy
p an
Toce T For 2

T wavy Tar iz

| [sae Tex Tien
REP CINCLANT CINCSO #_ TENS .
iNote: Field distribution indicated e

0 PROJECT ( AMNUG,“1>

i) ese1-316//01254-45

SCWALE:
rorseeuly CB (CL), WE 1 (1), CI 4, RID LT

