# 104-10227-10120

## Page 1

:4-00000

: 104-10227-10120

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TOM

18.149

CONT

INHO

.:.

Hit, LM.

8911

INWAVE

DIRE -JARXX SUNDEXE DIRECTOR

C/BELL 8

21Ar 1 83 402

Turn CEN

POUTINT

- CIT DAYS

OUT98274

36/28

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIAT

WAVE

RYBAT/JMZIP

1. THE FOLLOWING ACTION WILL BE TAKEN BY WAVE. IN

RÉGARD TO RICRUITMENT AND MOVEMENT OF RECRUITS TO IRNO

AREAS AND POSSIBLE RECEPTION OF SHIPS AND PERSONNEL RETURNING

FROM ACTION AREAS

•

A ALL KUBARK SPONSORED RECRUITING AND

MOVEMENT OF RECRUITS WILL DISCONTINUE FOR

PRESENT.

& ALL RICRUITE NOW IS HOLDING WILL BE

RELEASED THIY WILL BE GIVEN $:00 EACH AND

THOSE FROM OUT OF TOWN WILL RECEIVE RETURN

TICKETE MOTHER HOMES DISCONNUE DINO POSTIRLE

C. HOLDING AREAS WILL BE CLEANED OUT 40

RECLIVE RETURNEES IF NECESSARY.

D. ALL MATERIAL AT IMBAR WILL BE RETURNED TO

HALING DORICI

SIC&EI

AUIMIMTICATIMO ORDICEI

REPRODUCTION BY OFFER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Mo

---

## Page 2

114-00000

¿Att

IROM

10749.

1000:

10

DIRECTOR

TAPRADED

FOUTTANE

OUTYUR 4.

36128

35: 26

INO

die 528

=2=

JMTIG PRIOR TO 1800 HOURS 2S APRIL IN CODES TO

RECEIVE MATERIEL FROM BET UNISE STEPS.

E, ALL UNNICLESARY SHIPS OR BOATS HILI BI

MOVED FROM IMBAR HARI TO INSERE MIXIMUM SECURITY

IE NECESSARY TO OFFLOAD TROOPS CA MAILRIEL

(DO NOT DISTURB OIL COMPANY SEIPENE

2. SANTA ANNA WITH AGORNS ARI DIVERTED TO

SMEROG

1. SCHIDULI OF OTHER SHIPSTO FOLION.

IND OF MESSAGI

C/WH/4-

tetro

SARD A BISSELL JA

ALIMO O11IEIO DOIP

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSEINE OFFICE S ARCAMRITE

Copy No.

---

