IATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

26 November 1960.”

MEMORANDUM FOR THE_RECORD 7, eee
: i : : Oso. yy
SUBJECT: Preliminary Debriefing Report on. AMPANIC-7 8 Ang te
i Re Uae,
Activities in Cuba eos CA
2 ; Le

1: ‘The substance of this preliminary report covers debriefing sessions
held with AMPANIC-7 from 7 through 15 Noveniber 1960. Both Mr.*Pekich and the
undersigned participated in these debriefing periods. . The pertinent aspects
of these debriefing Sessions are Summarized into four specific categories:

a. AMPANIC-7's operational activities in Cuba from his initial,
arrival in Cuba 5 August until his departure 5 November 1960. :

b. ‘Internal assets developed in Cuba for future operational,

use.

: c. Problems encountered by A~7 while operating in Cuba. :

8. Projected future assignment in Cuba.

, | 2. Mr. James Pekich, who was AMPANIC-7's case officer during his initial
training in Washington,. wes contacted by phone from Miami by subject on

| 7 Wovember. Subject reported that he had arrived in the U. S. by boat 5. Hov.
and was plemning to leave that efternoon ‘by plane for Washington. A room was
pooked at the Washington Hotel in anticipation of A-7's arrival thet evening.
At approximately 1800 hours, A~7 ¢alled Mrs Pekich on the agent phone from. the
Washington airport to announce his arrival and was directed to go to the hotel,
where subject was ‘subsequently contacted. by Hr. Pekich and the’ undersigned.

7 3. Upon contacting A-7 at the hotel, it was clearly evident that he was
wh in a highly emotional state which partly stems from his recent escape from —
wA VA Cuca. in bis initiel emotionel outburst, A-7 stated that We had not lived up
- to our_commitments to support his activities la Cuba; that he didn't like the

yw 4 dea of considering himsel? as ‘being expendable; that he was not. sure why we
_* we : sent him to Cuba in the first plece if we had no intentions to support his

activities inside the comtry. In short, A-7 felt we had let him down com-
pletely and that he wes fortunate in escaping without losing his life.

After Mr. Pekich succeeded fa quieting down A-7 following this initiel ..-
outburst, A-7 was, first asked to describe how he managed to get out.of Cuba
without utilizing our channels to effect this exfiltration.



»
1

E

A-7 stated that on ot coter he had sent an urgent nessogé
to his Hava contact (Ai i -1)) informing hin thet his situation vas
precarious and that he mist get out of Cuba es.soon as possible. Ac-
cording to A-7 his Agency contact was unable to provide any definite
assurence that his deperture from Cube could be.expedited. He then

attempted to lay on unilateral arrang to this end with first
his operational contact, Benito FERNANDEZ,Wand later his mother-in-
lew introduced A-T to a/{ @ ps; atrist Havana, who
offered to assist him in getting out of CubS%°°In the éourse of the |
next, -7's plans .to get it of Cuba began to take shape;
att troduced him ‘to(Dr. “Francisco PRADO,| a plastic. 06,6
surgeon o) A vana.. On 1 Hovember a negro’
by the of | drovego A-7's safehouse

and took him to his own house located on(64th Street 23-25}in Marianao.
On the morning of 2 November at 1100 hours, (Dr. /PRaDO]prrivea at the
Negro's house and told A-7 that he pianned to ieavelfor Key West
Florida 5 November and would arrange to smuggle A-7 out of Cuba by
hiding him in the motor room of his yacht. Arrangements were made
between the principals for A-7. to visit the yacht 4 November to in-
‘spect his proposed hiding plate on the yacht. - In the interim period,
A-7 stated that he began to suspect that he may have fallen into a
trap and told the Negro that he was returning to the U. S. to bring
Tony VARONA back with him jto Cuba. A-7 felt this was a good gimmick~
to use in the event(Dr. O}plannea to turn him over to the G-2. nA
After inspecting his ‘hiding place on the yacht,. A-7 tola(Sr.' he
didn't like the idea of hiding in the motor room and suggested that ~
he swim out to the boat, where he could. be picked. up at sea. ‘That
night (4 November) A-7 stayed at the home whe had a
house close to the beach at Senta Neria del Mar located abot

25 Kilometers, from Havana. On 5 Hovember at 0630 hours, A-7 began
his long sy in rough, choppy waters and was finally siphted by

Dr. Prado's\yacht, ‘here he was taken on board the vessel. “(4-7
states that-he was. completely exhausted when he .was picked up by the
vessel). G

o 6 aeen
Ge. Prado's)yacht sorta") pitotea monet
Key West, Florida 5 Hovdhber at 1445 hours.” A-7 managed to slip avay
during the refueling of the yacht before the custom officials arrived
and immediately took off for Miami. Upon reaching Miami, A-7 went
directly to his vite home. for.a reunion with his family. In query~
ing A-7 further on how(Dr. Prado) managed to leave Cuba without any
serious obstacles plac in‘his ‘path by the 406, 4-7. stated that
oa Ge. Prado\told-him that he vebeived official aj oval for this trip- -
re @ stolen vessel from his yacht club, (Casino Espeno))) i
Havana, which was bei held for him by Americen authorities i
Key West. Noreover, (or. Preao)tona A-7 that he plenned -to leave the
Ht 7 ° + ig



(oe ay (worth about ae in Key WEst, Florida, which he hoped to put
ale at: some future date.. (It would appear that. % Prado}was afraid
Be atl such vessels as-his would ea iaet be nationalized ‘by the Castro

.) Prior to his return to “ee ‘ado))planned to stay at the West

(Drive Tartar Islend,) Niemi - Tel: & S505

4, Efforts:to debrief A-7.on his. operational activities in Cuba were
Somewhat futile in this initial meeting in view of his unsettled: emotional
state. His primary concern appeared to be his wife and his rather strained
relationship with his in-laws, who were now residing in Miami. In this con-
nection, it should be pointed out that this emotional state appeared to stem,
in part, from his inherent suspicions that his wife (21 years of age and rel-

- atively attractive) was being unfaithful to him. All indications are, however,

that A-7 has no real basis for these suspicions; other than those conjured up.

in his own mind. In any case, he requested if it might not be possible to wire-
tap. his wife's house in Miami, so. that ‘he could have daily reports on her activi-
ties. While no promises were made, A-7 was assured we would attempt to look
into this possibility, once we had more definite information tiat there were
some grounds for his suspicions. (Note: Subsequent discussions vith Security
Office revealed that a wire-tap of A-7's house was a major project in itself

and impossible to accomplish at this time without tieing up considerable
personnel.) A-7 was later. told this after we assured him that his suspicions
were groundless where his wife. was concerned. :

5.. Following this initial meeting with A-7, it was apparent to doth
Mr. Pekich and the undersigned that:time would be needed to restore agent's
confidence in our capability to support his efforts in any future projected
assignment in the field. Moreover, A-7's emotional state, which appears to
stem from his problems with his in-laws and his concern about leaving his wife
alone, must be fully resolved before attempting to dispatch him again.

6..'In later debriefing session held from 8 to 15 November with A-7,
considerable more light was thrown on the nature and scope of his operational
activities in Cuba, As previously indicated in paragraph 1 of this report,
A-7's activities are summarized as follows: - 1

a. AMPANTC-7 Operational Activities in Cuba:

In_line with his ected mission to_ organize resistance Ups
in Havana and Pinar del Rio for mounting sabotage operations against .
key _target installations and assasination of prominent Cuban Communist
menbers_in the Castro entourage, A-7 appears to have made some progress
in this direction from the time he arrived in Cuba in early August 1960,
to his subsequent exfiltration 5 November. Upon arr: in -Havana,
A-7 began a series of meetings ‘with leaders of the OA, Triple-A and MDC
with a view to establishing some degree of rapport in the furtherance
2? of -his own_personal objéctives. It is significant to note that.in --
1 a period of approximately 5 weeks, A-7 made contact with over 42 indi-
viduals, who represented various anti-Castro groups operating in the
Havana and Pinar del Rio areas. A-7 frankly edmitted that he hed spread
himself out too thin in this respect and that in many cases he should -

SECRET



have employed cut-outs instead of attempting to contact certain
individuals bimse]? «qf Individual meetings were also.held by A-7 with
AMPANIC-5,, Lino andez Janda. AMRUING-1 with a view to establishing
some degr ff rapport and coordination of activities in the area.

.In this connection, A-7 cleims he turned over a number of his assets

over to AMPANIC-5, prior to his movement to the ESCAMBRAY, where he
wes subsequently. picked up by G-2.

b. Internal Assets Developed in Cuba for Future Operational Use:

In attempting to sift out specific as: ssets developed by A~7 during
his activities in Havana, three of the more prominent individuals with

- whom A-7 wes -in hase contaet should we Beer

(a) (Benito oe ower ofthe Sita so-Set)
Garages) in Havan Havana. A-7 ust

So mn of suitable LZ's DZ's in seer» Piner Sel Rio

and Oriente provinces, location of safehouses in Havana and

use of his garages for storage of arms and military equipment

which A-7 anticipated would be dispatched to him. ‘

ol ere .

(2) (@r. Helio NARD) Baiz; ») a lawyer by profession, who has unlimite

contacts in Pinar del Rio and who was working clos wh ‘T
to form a guerrilla group in the Sierra de los Organos‘ 7
also selected to handle the propaganda for the "Cuba Libre" group
being organized by AC -7 inside Cuba. z
(3) Grancisco ROBAYNAS 2llages)) a Cuben national who had served
in aan S. Army and who also fought in the Escambrays against Batis
forces: BAYNAY) claimed he had a-force of 150 men at his disposal
and was p. vi to use them in a guerrilla action against Castro
forces in the Pinar del Rio area. Moreover, once proper materiel
support in the form of arms and other military equipment wes made
available to him by A-7, he felt he could marshal over a thousand
men in this area.

of
(4) tn addition to the lnove assets, A-7’indicated, that AN eG)
(Imow to him aX(Emi lio Rodriguez) George DePilot ) (Guan Hs Mendez
rendered him considerable asSistancé in moving s plc about Har

in the course of his operational contacts. In the-case of BMIRES }
A-7 highly praised his abilities as a highly capable Case officer,

and he feared for his personal safety. He suggested thet AMERE. fret
should be brought back to the U.S. for a rest period, before G-2
_ Picked him up. - s :

(5) Finelly, AMPUG-1 who was trained in sabotage techniques in the
U.S. and was later assigned to A-7, was listed by A-7 as an asset, .
who could be channéléd “into tore specific operations, once available
materiel was forthcoming. He felt, however, that he and AMPUG-1 |
were at considerable odds on‘certain aspects of. conducting operatior



~

in Havana, but felt he could resolve these differences: upon
his own return. : wise he bs

ce. Problems Encountered by A-7 while Cperating in Cuba:

Some of the more significant problems encountered by A-7
during the course of. his operations in Havana are as follows:

(1) “Security: . In this connection, A-7 stated that despite

the disguise given him, he had to be constantly on the alert
from the danger of being picked up by G-2 or Castro police
during the course of his numerous operational contacts. He
sited several examples where he ‘believed he was under sur-
veillance by the opposition and subsequently succeeded in aliud-
ing this surveillance, He complained that bis disguise, (hair-
piece: and mstache) rapidly deteriorated in the Havana climate
and as a consequence he was forced to abandon this disguise tows
the latter part of his stay in Havana. Similarly, he was forced
to change his quarters continually, by moving from one safehouse
to eaother as a security precaution, since-he felt that it was
generally known in Cuban circles that he was operating in the
Havana area, and that he was. probably already under the sur-
veillance of Castro security forces.

! . (2).. Materiel : In the course of thése debriefing
sessions, one of A-7's chief complaints was lespite his

s urgent messages sent through his cut-out’ (As to the Statio

aa that arms and other military equipment werd Sorely needed by'

his groups in Havana and Pinar del Rio, no action was taken to
implement his requests. As a result, A-7 felt he was losing fac.
with his followers and this was one of the primary factors for
returning to the States to discuss this aspect with Headquarters

(3) eed for Direct Commnication: A-7 stated that without the
- services of a w/t operator who could be in direct communication
with us, he is fully convinced that any subsequent return to Cus
in an operational capacity would be ineffectual. Hence, this
would be one of the conditions laid on us.that when he returned,
a W/T operator would be assigned to him personally. :

7- Projected Future Assignment of A-7 in Cuba: ‘Predicated on the assun
tion that A-7 will be sent back to Cube. in the relatively near future, both

Mssrs. Pekichand-Petexs;~feel that his most significant contribution can be
made in the Pinar del Rio area, where he appears to have mown assets in. the
hills. This, however, does got preclude A-7 from also operating in Havana in
developing sabatoge operations with AMPUG-1, whom we assume will -cooperate’-
with A-7 despite their differences in how these operations should be conducte
Moreover, should the AMYUM.complex decide to move into other provinces of
Cuba where military action is to take place, A-7 would appear to be the logic

-SEpprr


“choice in taking over the operations in this area against. Castro, targets.’
In any case, a decision has been reached that A-7 should not be dispatched
without a trained w/t operator who can be relied on to work closely on: \
operations with A-7 inside the country. :

8. ‘Case Officer Comments: .Despite A-7's tendencies to operate on™.

a@ grandiose scale, his disappointment in the lack of support received'on his
initiel mission to Cuba; and his display of emotional instability at times,
it is believed that his efforts can be properly channeled to work effectively
for us in Cuba. His motivation appears to stem from his personal axbitions
. to make his mark on this counter-revolution against Castro, where he can |
assure himself of a priminent position in the future government: to be formed
in Cuba after the overthrow of the Castro regime. A-7 has imagination.and
the will to succeed. His weakness is his inability to hide his personal
embitions from others who may work with him and.who may have altogether dif-
ferent motivations and sense of values. Hence, it is believed that A-7

will encounter problems in handling pede recruited or assigned to.him in
the course of his activities inside the country. AMPUG-1 can be sited as

@ good example, where a clash of personalities has apparently alreedy taken
place. In view of this, A-7 will have to be dealt with firmly and mst be _
convinced that the success or failure of his projected mission wfll depend
on his ability to develop confidence and loyalty among his followers once hé
is inside the covntry again. Similarly, A-7 must resolve his personal proble:
dealing with bié-wife and in-laws, which has had an adverse effect on him
personally since his return, and may affect his operations inside Cuba. The
next several weeks will, therefore, need be devoted to re-establish A-7's
confidence in our ability to support his efforts in Cuba, once he is sent
back, and working out his family problems to obviate any adverse psycholo-
gical effect which may be detrimental to his operations Cuba.

i
i

SECRET

