# 104-10423-10000

## Page 1

1104-10423-1000

...

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CONFIDENTIAL

7DO|PIC

H-F-1

24 May 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Information and Privacy Staff

SUBJECT

: Release of CIA Information Contained in

Warren Commission Related Documents

REFERENCE

: DO/SS 75 - 1051, dated 19 December 1975

Attached is a copy of a CI Staff memorandum dated 7 April 1976

documenting a modification of che conclusions reached in Reference con-

cerning the release of FBI reports relating to the Warren Commission.

oGG/ci staff group that is currently revlewing these holdings.

The decision on Oswald document No. 282 will be made by the

16/ CharleS A. Br188S

Charles A. Briggs

Chief, Services Staff.

Attachment:

Memorandum as stated

Cc: OGC/Mr. Zeibell

CONFIDENTIAL

FL,

--------------

++---74--72-4-44-824-1

---

## Page 2

13-00000

•..

Mated te

7 April 1976

DDO/PIC

Re request 3/26/76 from FBI to IPS to confirm our previous

concurrence in release of Warren Commission Document #1247:

FBI Report dated 22 June 1964, at Dallas, Texas,

Subject: Lydia Dymitruk, Internal Security - R.

As a result of a December 1975 request from the FBI for a

determination on FBI reports in the Oswald case held at NARS,

some unknown person in CI Staff advised DDO/PIC that FBI

report identified as Warren Commission Document #1247 could

be declassified. (See FBI memorandum dated 12 December 1975.)

This declassification of Warren Commission Document #1247

did not take place and FBI, on review, came to the decision

that it might not be wise to declassify the entire report.

I have this date concurred in the suggestion of Mr. Howard,

Howard indicated he would record the fact that the CIA source

document for this information is in our Oswald release. -

For Your Information: Declassification of Warren Commission

Document #1247 (based on Warren Commission Document #844)

was authorized as reflected in Mr. Briggs' memorandum of

19 December 1975 to IPS. (Warren Commission Document #844 --

CIA Memorandum to J. Lee Rankin of Warren Commission, dated

24 April 1964 -- was not processed against the Oswald 201 and

appears neither in the released nor denied list of documents. A

check with NARS reflects that Warren Commission Document

#844 was authorized for release in its entirety earlier in 1975.)

- T22 ONLY

---

## Page 3

13-00000 .

...

w.......616119111111

- 2

AL US ONLY

The same information is reflected in the Oswald package as

Item #282 (partial declassification) identified as:

CSCI to FBI dated 22 April 1964, Subject: Assassina-

tion of President John F. Kennedy - Bio Info on Lydia

Dimytruk.

Since Warren Commission Document #844 is declassified in

its entirety, it appears Oswald Document #282 should be con-

sidered for declassification in its entirety.

dinn

E. Mendoza

Chief, CI/PA

MINANGTH THE INTERNEL USE ONLY

---

