# 104-10177-10248

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10177-10248

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETUAN TO CIA

Background Use Only

a Do Not Reproduce.

ThIs

2.

SECRET

рад но.

PERSONAI. RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART I1 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

DISPATCH MO.

UEGA-25647

INSTRUETIONS TO CASE ORFICER

Ificer or appropraate puthority on the barre al lne dear anarlablo in

approral unless desserter

furniahes

AARORIO tO

all

abtained by

pied eno, ap.

and 1ad. Therealler the wavel

1+1908 to

dasonere

10•219.

rebject a tendordline, il pooradlay and 800 (2) ena..

porerala.

Leo lal copie

ble urape ow

18 additional upsce repuired

2. PSEUZONYM

СПУРТОМТИ

AMDESK/1

SECTION I

CONTACT AHO DEVELOPMDIT

INDICATE NOD: OMEN, OMERE, OMY, AMO ON AMOM SUQJECT DAS FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPEO.

Subject was spotted and recommended for recruitment by AHOT/132,

leader of the AHHOUSE organization.

Subject was interviewed anc

recruited by Kenneth R. SAKOVICH in January 1964 in Miami to be a

member of the AMDESK PM team.

MANOCATE: "IF NOT SUBVEATE COULD D TURNEO OVER QUICKLY, AND IN A SECURE MANNER TO ANY MESPONSIREE CASTiONAiCiR EOR

Xes, to any responsible Case Officer

115T OTHER CASE OFFICERS THO HAVE MAMOLEO SUBJECT OR AHOM HE XMDRS OR MAS AYONN, GIVE MAMES DY THICH THEY MAVE

(Clarence E.

SMERYAGE, known as aler

Kenneth R. SAKOVICHI, known as. Pat

crarles f. HASENGILL, known as Frank

"LORENIRNICK, known as Larry

COOL to HF LE5647

SECRET

201-275723

---

## Page 2

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

NO Not Reproduce

SECRET

SECTICA II

HO: IVATICA ARL COMTALL

¡Be soserte.l

al porseblo reto eratonio

subject was

formerly employed by intel organization

in Cuba. He

turned himself in to ODENVY in 1960 and gave ODENIY a complete debriefing

of his activities. He feels successful revolution was betrayed and has

seen first iaou cio poirce-ytale tactics employed by the present regime,

he desires to be active in the overthrow of this regime.

CATE DUAT CONTROR, IN ANY, EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (18 nO COn

explan. ,

control

Subject feels Case Officer support 1s absolutely necessary

to overthrow

present regime in Cuba. Control should present no problem as long as

subject feels Case Officer's objectives are compatible with his. In

addition, ODENVY and KUBARK knowledge of his past activitles for

and fact subject has signed salary receipts provide elements

control.

SECTION 111

COVER

COVER USED DY SURJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR MENTIMES.

Safehouse meetings

COVER USEO or SUBJECT IN DATAIMING MIS INCORMATION ANO IN CONTACTING MIS INFORMANTS.

N/ A

INDICATE SERVICE FOR WHICH SUBJECT THINKS HE (Will dork) (le mortines.

Subject thinks. he is working for KUBARK

SECTION IV

INTELLIGENCE CONMECTIONS AND TRAIMING

EXPLAIA SUBJECT'S KMOWL PAST OR PRESENT CONMECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE, IMOIÇATE THE EXTENT

SUCH COMMECTION IS AMONN OVERTLY.

sun aard a to ta be race da fun, to end bach ey

LIST OMER AMDIVIQUALS (AGOnIA, relAriver, felendo) MHO ANOn OF SUBJEC'S PRESENT INTeLeIdENce areNadIes.

ANOT/132

• AMRIB/1

AMDESK/2

AHDESK/3

Iden.

is aware he is in clandestine activities, does

not know specifics.

ANDIAL/ 1

EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT MAS MAO IN CLANDESIINE OPERATIONS.

ANDOT®

ANNOT PM, FI/Tradecraft Training.

(ISOLATION/ ISOTROPIC)

SECTION Y

COLLABORATION POTENTIN

IMOICATE OTMER FOREION POMER SUBILET POURO DE MOST RIACEY 1O COLLABORATE DITH BECAUSE OF MIS 10ED, OGE OR PAST

Subject would probably collaborate with anyone he felt would give him

the support needed to overthrow the present regime in Cuba.

SECRET

You

---

## Page 3

4-00000

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

A Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

CPERATIINAL

USE

SECTION VI

#1-1880958180

CONTACT

KUBARK has had no prior contact with subject.

He has turned in

complete reports to ODENVY'lO his past activities for Cuba.

l422001

N/ A

INDICATE OURT MAS ANIM POLO SUALKET AS TO THE OI

N/ A

A. ORTAIL SURICCIS PROPOSCO PI ÓR CA TIPE USE OR DUTIES.

810%

No proposed FI or CI type duties at this time.

3. DETAIL SUBJECT-S PROPOSIO AP-AN TIPE USE OR DUTIES.

Subject scheduled to be member of a PJ Infil/ Raider team.

PROPOSEO LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITE

DETAIL SUOJECT'S PROPOSEO MAUSOY TURE COMTAGI OR DESDATIONAL USE:

A. PHERE SUBJECT IS IN ORFICIAL MIMACA OF A FOREIÇA CONCANNCMTS

N/A

B. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AN ODYONE AGENCY:

N/A

SECTION VIlI

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

PERSON PURE TO SCRSECRCLATIONSHGR MITH SUONECTO

P.C. PRAINCE, OMPOSITE RUMSER, ACMUCRATION. IF ANTI AGEAGE

$200.

Town to subje per month.

See Section I, 3 for Agency personnel

SECRET

---

## Page 4

4-00000

/ RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

*Do Noi Reproduce

SECTION IX

SECRET

QUALIFICALICHS ECO STHER CORRATISAS

19010498

SPECIAL

TOR OTMIA OPIRATIDES

#:836060868101898EJEDALUE

Subject has dated knowledge of personnel of CLBli Intel services. This

could conceivauly be of value in Ci-type operatios.

$200.00 per month

Exfiltration from Cuba

if necessary

SECTION XI

CE AMO SECURITY

INDICATE THE FIELO AGENCIES AMO PIELO PILES DITH MMICH SUBURET-S MANE MAS PICA FORCACO ANO THE RESULTS.

JMWAVE

and ODENVY.

Traces transmitted to Headquarters per UFGA-

13960, 13 February 1964.

INDICATE OTHER

INVESTIGATIVE

MEASURES

TAREN 1O VERIFY BIOGRIANICA.

Clandestine assessment.

LCFLUTTER ( See Section XIV2)

INDICATE

APPROVAL OR 291

ROVAL FOR SURJECT'S USE MAS BEIN PREVIOUSLY OBTAIMEI

POA Obtained - DIR-8727

Subject's value and "attitudes

INS:RM6TISA FUTTISMEO ON SURJEGT.

1O9A AP.

TO OATE APPROVAL ORTAINCO

18 March 1964

because of his intelligence and background, thips le crous tary of the

CE/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VIENPOINS.

None which had not been investigated prior to his recruitment by KUBARK.

SECTION XII

SUBJECT'S PERSONM HABITS

USE Or CLOUOR, ORLESI GAMELING, PARMIOURS.

Moderate use of liquor, no drugs.

Gambling and paranours unknown.

SECRET

---

## Page 5

4-00000

METURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

NDO Mot Reproduce

SECHICE !!!

INDICATE PIO,

Baschall

Baskotball

SECRET

AVTCATICENL INTERESIS

1!a. « 816

SECTION XIV'

OME 1H81

A Count dee erica ad sei

Speaks English fluently.

_GENERM

PASS AS A DATIVE

INDICATE UNETHER

INFORUATION IN PRO PARTS I AMO 11 MAS ORTAINEO DY RISCRRCH, CLANDESIANE ASSESSARRI, DILES.

CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER DEANS.

Research, Clandestine assessment, files.

LCFLITTER - Subject was

tested on 10 Feb. (64837), he was queried as to his contacts with any

other intel or security service, any government other than PBPRIME,

exile organizations,

falsification of personal history. He gaveODENVY

a complote account of his paul activitles. No deception was noted on

the part of the subject.

Hort"

"OUTINE ACTION IS REQUIRCO, IP ANO ANEM TRRMIMATION OF SIQUECE IS EPFECTRO.

1 18 но

Routino termination action.

SECTION XV

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEVENTS

GINE FULI

1.E. RECOGNITION SIGNALS, SINI AMERE COULO CONTACI RE MADEI NHAT BONA PIDES COULO IMDIRADUAL

MAKING CONTACI USEI

N/A

SECTION. XVI

MISCELLAXEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA ANI REMERKS

answers.

He has shown

practiced it thus far

in und raindes e need for security and has

DATE

27 April

1964

sicgatuat or

ATE TEMIOK 0FF10

chrities

INNETH P.. SAKOVIC

SECRET

201-755973

---

