|104-40188-10156) {2022 RELEASE pee TH THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

os
aM mi See tal "Wid OL NUNIT
2
ms pcre CONTROL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY wio
.
UES a soe Tae aoc we tae wwveiewie a feiweuen oo ob ah ie Ane near tes ttm nua teret seen te onereel ee me .}

counter Cuba kerort NO. = CSCI-3 781,888 ~ 7
SUMETT — Ruverto Antoniv MORO Perez, + DATE DISTR 18 June 1984 - Cy
nee (pseudonym Rogel MORENO) Ng paces 9 i

REFERENCES CSC1-3. 791, OBS +6

" OATE OF 1964

FO.
ps Mashoegen we

eats FOR re tone Ar nsS) iat Cerone, ra ne SSR ee
id sovech = A Juemer Cuban 18 ofticer who served with ine Cuban Intelligence
: Service unt April 1964.

waters Comment The following report is one of «series. | ’
May persosality tormation provided by the source aod
includes supplemectat tuformation from the records of this Agency.

Reberia Aptonio MORO Perez, pseudunym Rogel MORENO, the first
> ,, Seergtary of lhe Coban Eenbassy in Rome, {8 a Cuban lplelliyence
> Service officer in the Dice: eglgn Se General de Inteligencia (DGI - Générey

Directorate of Intellige ney, +2, 3,4,

ry neat : zy

1. Accurding to adecument gates 26 Apsit 1985 from[an official
Liatson Service] Roberto Antonio MORO Perez arrived in Rome on
28 March 19637aed, v4-of-1 Apri] 1962, assured the functions of

second secretary 4( the Cubun Embassy. . MORO, whu is single,
resides at Via Archimedes 80, American Palace Hotel, Rume. He
carried Cuban diplomatic pensport number D/63/136 which was
issued In Haber on 23 February 1963.

Keaaquarters Cem

2. Ina ceport dated 28 May 1963 from a source who 18 usually
reltable, if was stated that Roterto MORO Perez, the second a
secritary at the Cuban Embassy in Rome, 16 definitely
responsible for all commercial dealings as well as the firing
of tecnmieal personne). Source described, MORO as being one
uf We most active Eoibarsy officers and as being very well
Uked ny thy Cuteon Ambasagador, Leonardo FERNANDEZ Sanches,
MORO has adyeted tumeelf fer more quickly to the foreiga
scene than other Ertasay personnel because hu studiea the

Nuno

4
+
3
;2 SECRET
i NO FOREIGN DISSEM



ete ee ee tt RR cs SOREN Sh Sn

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-2- CSCI-3/781, 888
language, the potitical eltuation, and has broken away from the narrow social |
Ife existing within the official Embassy family. There are suspicions that
MORO is an intelligence off'ces.

3. The saine usually reliable source, ina 6 September 1963 report, added the
{cllowirg information concerning MORO: -

MORO {8 a very hard worker and works with precision and accuracy,
Politically he Is a secure CASTRO supporter, but with intelligence and
moderation. He is serious, perhaps excessively reserved, but does not

lack communication or the capacity to inapire sympathy from both his
collcagucs at the Embassy and the Itailan’s with whom he comes in contact.
He never speaks of his family. His commercial work at the Embassy

follows the normal office routine without any particular security treatment.
His hirlng of technical personnel is considered extremely classified and he
refers these matters directly to the ambaasador; no ons Site is authorized -
to have contact with candidates for work in his area. MORO does not use ..:
an aulomobiie with Corpy Dipiamand tags, provadly tur security reasons, >
but instead drives a Renault R-8 with temporary license tage which are
valid for one year,

4 Ina repor! dated 17 January 1504 iis same source daid that Koderto MORO
Perez and Odina ROJAS Trete, both second secretaries at the Cuban Embassy -
in Rome, have been lovers for ecmetime and lve together at Via Cuboni 18
while MORO pretends to reside in an Spartment on Via Archimede,

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

