# 104-10217-10151

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10217-10151

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

• 1

CABLE SECRETARIAT DESEMIHATION

чоттко

-LASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECPET

•OUD

When Filled In at

BEPROQUSTION OF IMME COOT TROMBiSED

O va

CLABADY TO CO TRE NO.

ARRE TO CSTREMa.

I TREND I ReTUR TO

ROUTINO AMOrA METAALESEEN DY

ATI.

5rя3ae ar

RANCH

Астюм

WHS:

FILE, VR

828

"S§ CRES 881484Z JUL 18 CITE VIVNIAMI 8181

DIRECTOR INFO MADRID

• RYBAT TYPIC AMÈCRU AMCALL AM SOUR

8J1 M1 18808

REF A DIRECTOR 048796

B WHATS 8138 (~116495)

1a AMCALL-l'S WIFE TOLD GORDON M. BINIARIS ON 27 JUNE THAT AMSOUR-I

CASE HAS NO SOLUTION, NOT EVEN BEING STUDIED FOR POSSIBLE SOLUTION AND 8OC

HA'S NO INTENTION OF EVEP STUDYING CASE FOR SOLUTION. FIDEL.. CASTRO-REGARDS

ANSOUR-1 AS DIRECT BETRAYAL OF PERSONAL RELATIONSHIP. CASTRO FREQUENTED

HOME OF AMSOUR-1O AMSOUR-1 CAUGHT WITH MICROFILM IN WHICH CASTRO'S

MOVEMENTS VERE BEING REPORTED ON DETAILED BASIS. CASTRO TOOK IT AS

PERSONAL AFFRONT AND BETRAYAL OF FRIENDSHIP.

2. ON SEVEN JULY BINIARIS AGAIN QUERIED AMCALL-L'S WIFE RE AMSOUR-I

#SE. SHE STATED THAT, SHE ONLY REMEMBERED THAT AMECRU-I HAD STATED THIS

CASE VOLLD BE MOST DIFFICULI TO SOLVE BECAUSE IT WAS IN THE SAME CATEGORY

AS THAT OF HUBER ROGELIO MATOS BENITEZ (201-266268). SHE THEN FOLLOVED

THE SAME RATIONALE AS PARA ONE. SHE ADDED THAI THE AMSOUR-1 CASE "MEANT

NOTHING TO HER BECAUSE SHE VAS NOT PERSONALLY INOLVED IN IT AND BECAUSE

• AMECRU-1 HAD ONLY TOUCHED ON IT VERY LIGHILY DURING THEIR MEETING IN

MADR ID.

'ASSUMPTION REF & PARA TVO CORRECT. POSSIBLE REASON WHY MONEY HAS

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

• CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSERINATION

1 PERSONUMAT MOTIO

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

JOTTED

857..

• DISSON SY

AETIOM UNIT

PEN.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES

When Filled In out

GROUD I

REPRODUETION OT INIS COPY PROMIBITED

CLASANY TO CS FRE NO.

RALP TO CI TUS MA

O MeR RE I ReTURN TO.

SOUTERO ANDIOR ENTLALE-SEEN AY

• BRANCH

FILE, VR

PACE 2 VIMIAMI 8181 SECRET

YET TO BE DEPOSITED DUE TO SEVERAL TELEGRAPHIC ERRORS. ORIGINAL CABLE

SENT BY BINIARIS UNDER NAME OF MOTHER OF AMPANIC-7. CABLE

DELIVERED WITHOUT SIGNATURE (ACCORDING TO AMECRU-1). ON TWENTY THREE

JUNE AMERU-I SENT RETURN CABLE TO MOTHER OF AMPANIC-T ASKING IF

ORIGINAL CABLE CORRECT SINCE NO SIGNATURE, AMEGRU-I ASKED THAT REPLY

BE SENT TO KILBERTS PARX HOTEL IN GERMANY. NO CITY GIVEN IN ADDRESS.

AND CABLE SENT AS INSTRUCTED. IT RETURNED TO SENDER DUE TO INCOMPLETE

ADDRESS. ON TVENTY SEVEN JUNE, BINIARIS INSTRUCTED WIFE OF AMCALL -1

TO SEND CABLE TO CORRECT ADDRESS. INSTEAD WIFE OF AMCALL-I VISITED

MOTHER OF AMPANIC-7 AND REQUESTED MOTHER SEND CABLE TO AMECRU-1.

MOTHER AGREED TO DO THIS. HOWEVER UP TO PRESENT TIME OUTGOING COPY

UNOBTAINABLE SINCE BINIARIS CANNOT ASK FOR IT, AND VIPE OF ANCALL-I

DOES NOT VANT TO ASX FOR IT. TO SOLVE PROBLEM BINIARIS ASKED AMSIGH-2

TO WIRE AMEORU-1 AND ASX HIM WHY MONEY HAD NOT BEEN DEPOSITED AS

INSTRUCTED. AMSIGH-2 AGREED TO SEND CABLE.

4. ON SEVEN JULY VIFE OF AMCALL-I RECEIVED LETTER IN OPEN CODE

FROM AMEGRU-I DATED ONE JULY STATING HER CASE WOULD BE SOLVED

SATISFACT OR IL Y AND TO LET HIM KNOW WHEN REST OF MONEY AVAILABLE.

BINIAR IS TOLD HER TO AGAIN TELL AMECRU-1 MONEY. WOULD. NOT BE RELEASED

UNT IL MONE Y DEPOSITED SUISS ACCOUNT AS STATED IN REF A PARA TVO.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEVINATION

SEASONS NOTVILO

S ROTTES

ATI

~ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL CONTES.

SECRET

(then Fillod la)

REPRODUCTION OP THIS CJAT FRONADITIO

INDENL

CLASSRY TO CO TRE NO -

хако то ст та с ма. .

ROUTERO.

3

8:

DISTEN ar

FILE, VR

ACTION Ma

PAGES ANASANE BIES SECRET

3.

COPY OF INCOMING CABLE FROM AMERU-I BEING SENI IN UFAA-2139.

STATION COMMENI: IT POSSIBLE AMECRU-I VIEING FOR TIME IN THIS

STRANGE EXCHANGE OF CABLES. NOTHING ELSE KNOWN AT MOMENT HERE. WILL

CABLE ASAP DEVELOPMENTS.

To FILE: 201-B61063, 201-275949, AID 281-325864. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET

---

