104-10167-10380| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

. eowewo rere.

SECREI ; \
Office Memorandum ~ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT :

=—_

? To : CfaE/oPs

mow = c. moner fy) a

supyecr: Tony Veroza

1. I understerd thet the question of or pest 7900 rer xonth
subsidy to Mr. Jaron hes come up Zor discussion recently. The
following might be useful to you as tecksrount infomation.

4

2. Tascre. aries ia ‘States on er eotisigl & vey 1960
end sav Hr.[iiltard Carfloa 9 Yay of thet year this 9 May
necting and = necting. of the follevies tay & sealant che acder-05 |
signed end Varcra, fect that be
bed deen pronised in Eavone Sia Doei}act song suyrort for his
operations] zlens but also sur Sr His"$erscaal needs. arona
reiterated that he vas e&sclutely broke anf it vas essential tt
ave same ircoze froz same source. i > Yarore. tar[eore] 03.
“alone end agin mele a t nosey. On or ezcut
20 May, the question es to witether cr rot ve stould aid Verora ;
gnder the teble, so to syeat, was reise’ bere in Zeadquarcers vith =‘
Mr. Zsterlize. It vas cecited to s: Yercea with 3300 month —
2 sum Varcna fed requested. Out of
$200 to his chestfeur/ocdy guard, Francisco “eyas. It may be vell to i
recall thet the ratfczals for this decision at that tine ves that :
Mr. Varcea was the Zey yersca end sessile key figure of the centralised
anti-Cestro organizatioe ve were to fora. As of 1 June 1960 and up i
through Boveaber oF that year, Veroda Ws taid (XC ver moth by
"EERDER check.” Pron Scveaber 1X60 througa Merch 1961, Verona ves
paid directly ty Mr. Zomard Hunt in Next ic cash. April ent May 1961!
Foyments vere sade once sgain ty ESE check” fron feadque-ters.

fae Bo yeynents hav= been. saie for the aoctis cf Suse er July 1951 because;
At vas felt that with Hiro Cantoza's assumed leadershty Position it

fe vould be umvise end rerbaps unecessary to cortimue thee “prirete

peymerts™, vaich -- by the wey -- vere in ition to a salary Varona j

sy ae ania |

“

: 3. Varora ceens to be hard pressed for money at this tine, especially
; since he 1s now sevarated from his wife wto, as I ucderstand, controls,
bis checking accomt. ]

Re pape ee ee tc ae c -
Verona anything nore under the tebdle, tut in view of the Special Group}
7 decision, if I aa corzectly inforned, cf encouraging our cealings wi
numerous Cuban groups and persoralitics, t te wise to Zeep in =
touch vith Varena for soze tine and ay bin sone reasonable azcunt
a8 nothing ceaents frieniships bester than acozy. >:

bball ee a
