# 104-10186-10161

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10161

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NFORMATION REPORT

ANFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

•A BLETSALOR REACUSE lDA MALOTAI DOlENA Ol lDA VAlLOS MIRICA MIZIO lDA SENATE dI INA SANIUNARO

Lave, Tile

ware ts prohibited by lau

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY CUba

SUSECT "TOrRe" (an allas)

REPORT NQ. @SC1-316/01217-65

DATE DISTR.

IS Karch 1965

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES : CS-311/00115-63

(Page ¿)

8 July. 1966

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE &

rashington, D. C.

DATE ACQ MArCA 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

INES iS IRSVALUATED INPORMATION. SOURCE ORAOINOS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL DE CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Serrice until April 1964.

Headquarters Commentg

The following report is one of a sertes contaiaing personality

inforastion provided by the source and incluies supplemental

infornation

from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

"Vorma" is the secretary to Felix Rafael (Inu) (See

@SCI-316/00<30-65, 2 February 1965) in Tramites (the Central

Processing Section) of the Departamento de Liberacion Nacional

(National Liberation Department - LN) of the Direccion General

de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI)..

2.

orieight inches tall,

weighs about 115 pounds,

build.

She has a white complexion, light'brown hair and eyes,

thin ejebrows,

a thin face, a hooked nose, and white, uniform

teeth.

"Norma" always wears a uniform.'

Headquarters Comment

The records of this Agency reveal no additional identifiable

information on

"Norma."

4

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

2

1

STATE

: би

REP

ARMY

CISCL.ANT

(Nolo: field dor surica mésonad by "$'".)

CANCSO #

INSA

•TANS

1 048

1 FBI 2

INFORMArON RERORI

INPORMATION REPORT

WH/ C/CA

_LX 2516

HH/C/H1Q

N71/CIRR

2 PE PEDI

15-

LETRISTA

UNHASH/BRt1

-O PROJECT (ASMOG/!

_C+C1-316/01267-65

RIDLAN

TOTALs. MiES (1).

WE 1 (1), CI 4, RID 1

115: LD: 58*

4IBR

---

