104-10185-10115) {2022 RELEASE UNDER a PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

: NL AR USSTSRORS SA oe untamunita or cetenton eth i any macecs Ws aa unukbodeed perme We prebtited by Wer
ers E S-E-C-R-E-T
‘ Ae : NO FOREIGN DISSE
country Cubs REPORT NO. CS -311/02378-64
suBECT Policy Guidance Directives for DATE DISTR, 24 August 1964 ~
Cuban Intelligence Representatives z
in Mexico as-Issued by the MA NO. PAGES 12
Department of the General
Directorate of Intelligence REFERENCES CS-311/00115-64
CS-311/00345-64
DATEOF 1964 : : RETURN TO CIA
INFO. A a Background Use Only
PLACE & A DoN
OaTe ACQ. (June 1964). He FIELD _REPORT NO. : lot Reproduce

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INIO@MATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APSRAISAL OF CONTENT (5: TENTATIVE,

source: A former Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban
=. Intelligence. Service until April 1964.

Headquarters ‘Comment... The following is a translation of a

sdoclment which Source provided this Agency and concerns the

General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de
Inteaigencia.~-DGI) MA Department's polic; guidance directive

for Caan Te ‘uban intelligence representatives in Mexico. The MA

Department no longer exists’as stich, having been divided into y

two departments: Illegal ‘Department (Regan) an and the National
Liberation Department (Liberacion Naciona

cs Z -' Source Comment. Mexico is of special importance as a country
through which much information is obtained and as a country
with which Cuba desires to maintain good relations. As a
result the Cuban intelligence service does not mount revolu- Hi
tionary activities directed against the Mexican government.

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION
COUNTRY: MEXICO :

IMPERATIVE
1. Collective Action H

2. Official Relations with Cuba :

3. Attitude of the Mexican Government Toward Counterrevolutionary
Elements and Their Activities .

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

meee
meme

1 STATE on ARMY WAVY, Ae

1 REPCINCLANT. CINCSO # I&NS
[ontore: Field diibution indicated by “#89

7EX-1611
[|Np (aMMuG-1)
CS-311/02378-64)

AS jcoorD Ina

[CLUS 12 (for AF-dst. ACSI,
voracs JE 3, CI 21, RID/AN 1, WH/SA 46 (5), SR
WH 23 (34), AF 8 (8), FE 8 (10), FE 12 (8), NE 1} (19)

or

RWT
sm

rr



pl

“CI/Statt

Hdgrs Dissem

wil/COPS
WH/PO/A
WH/PO/B

Z
8

WH/SA/EOB
WH/SA/MOB
WH/SA/R
WH/SA/Int
wH/SA/CI
WH/SA/SO/NS

BREE PERE Ee ROR EE MONG HOMRUG, HERE ROM mee

CI Liaison
CI/REA
RID/AN.

AF/1
AF/2
AF/3
AF/4
AF/R
AF/CI

EE/K
EE/SA
EE/BR
EE/YA
EE/H
EE/P
EE/C
EE/IUIS

FE/PMI/1
FE/JKO/JO
FE/JKO/K
FE/VNC/VN
FE/R
FE/CI

NE/AA/L&S
NE/AA/AP
NE/AA/E
NE/AA/L
NE/5/P.
NE/6/C&I
NE/Intel
NE/CL

WE/L
WE/2

Bree eee

ee

ay

DU FURELUN DEOCEm

-la-

WE/3"
WE/4
WE/5S:
e/a
WE/R

SR/Ci

SR/CI/K
> SR/RR

SR/O/WH

Field Dissem

WH/MEXi
WH/MNTY
WH/MRID
WH/SOOM

eee

ere

WH/PRIN
WH/GORG
WH/PACY
WH/MANA
WH/SJOS
WH/SALV
WH/TEGU
WH/GUAT
WH/LAPA
WH /BOGO
WH/QUIT
WH/GAYA
WH/LIMA
WH/CARA
WH/BUEN
WH/COBA
WH/MONT
WH/ASUN
WH/SAGO-
WH/RIOD
WH/CURL
WH/BRIL
WH/SAOP:
WH/BHIA
WH/BEHO
WH/LGRE ~
WH/RECI

WH/SA/WAVE

AF/ALGI
AF/ORNA
AF/RABA
AF/CASB
AF/ACCR
AF/CNRY
AF/BAKO
AF/DARE

EE/VIEN|

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

" EBE/SBUR

Pate re ee bat ee eet et tae et ett ett at tt at at Dt att

CS-311/02378-64

EE/CYRU
EE/ATHE
EB/KAVA
EE/SLON
EE/BERN
EE/GNVA
EE/ZURI
EE/HAMB

FE/DJAK
FE/MEDN .-

Gesrort :
FE/TOKY) (3~3
FE/OK1!
FE/SEOU
FE/SAIG
FE/KOBE

NE/COLO,

Boul pate
-/BOMB] (2-26
QE/CALC) 12-77

NE/MDRS
NE/KUWA
NE/KAHI
NE/DACC
NE/LAHO
NE/RAWL
NE/BAGH
NE/BEIR
NE/DAMA
NE/ALEP
NE/JIDD
NE/DAHA
NE/TAIZ
NE/CAIR
NE/ALEX

WE/BRUS.
E/COPE) (Y-G
E/HELS| (4-1
WE/OTT.
WE/ROME
WE/NILA
HE /HAGY.
WE/OSLO] (ty -
Es 4-4
WE/MADR.
HE (BARC ‘
E/STOC) (4~
OE ton 3
WE/PARI

Pre rae a pet Dal al et bt ae Pt tt Dt Pt PP at Pt Pt a te tt t= tt

Lisison Dissem

rEfcanada) |
RCMP), 1

referitisa 1
L/WASH@R] A


i
5
?
P
'
;

1s.

14.

15.
16.
17.
18,
19,
20.

21.
22.

Syruas, vestorust

Position of Political Groups Regardice the Cuban

Revolution .
Counterrevolutionary Organizations

Status of the Nevement for Solidarity with Cuba
Relations with the United States :

Cc. mr. Aw

Repressive Bodies © :
Training canbe and Recruiting Centers

Reporting About the State of the Leftist Forces

State of the Politicw#-Parties or Groups of the
Country

Mexican Communist Party

IMPORTANT

The Country's Foreign Policy

Function, Characteristics, and Facts atout Menters
of the Foreign Service and of the Diplomatic Corps
Accredited in the Corntry

Political Life of the Country

Internal Situation of the Armed Forces

The Catholic Church i
Counterrevolutionary Activities

The Press

Prensa Latina and its Functioaing -

NECESSARY
Economic Situation

Government Structure and the Function of its Organisms

INTELLIGENCE DIRECTIONS AND OBJECTIVES
COUNTRY: MEXICO |
INPERATIVE
COLLECTIVE ACTION
a) Anti-Cuban policies adopted ty regional organizations.

Position of the Government toward Cuta.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


ec)

2. OFFICIAL RELATIONS WITH CUBA

a)
b)

c)

a)

e)

ft)

es):

h)

4)

4d

k)

Y aggre

-3- CS-311-02278-54

Meetings of Organizations of a secret nature called
to deal with problems and measures against Cuta with
a view toward adopting military measures or political
ieelly those having to do with asylum,
Mexico on the decisions made.

Meetings of a military nature held within the sphere
of anti-Cuban’ regional. organizations. Policies
adopted. Mexico's position.

Regarding the maintaining of diplomatic relations,

Regarding, development of commercial and cultural oe
relations,

Reflection of a Caribbean crisis on its position,

‘Gorcérning Soviet-Cutan™ relations in

5 aC
ees questions that affect Cuba “and Peace.

R action to United States pressure concerning
ion toward Cuba.

Regarding the Second Declaration of Havana,

Regarding, political, economic, and social changes
that tale place in Cuba.

Regarding any type of communication with Cuba and
the application, in this respect, of Inter-American
treaties (Rio Treaty, Punta Del Este, and 23rd of
October meeting).

Position toward Cuba within international organ-
izations, cspecially the UN, the OAS, and the
Inter-American Defense Board.

Personal evaluations of the Chancellor, President,
and Minister of Defense in respect to the preceding

points.

Position concerning trips of Cubans from Cuba and
of foreigners, especially Latin Americans, to and
from Cuba.

3. ATTITUDE OF THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT TOWARD COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY

a)

iTS AND THEIR ACTIVITIES,

Organisms charged with authorizing the sojourn of
Cuban counterrevolutionaries; their officials,
chiefs, attitudes, and relaticns with the counter-
revolutionary organizations and their leaders.

S-E-C-R-E-T ©
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



e) Attitude toward revolutionary propaganda, a

Dd.

b) Measures adopted-by the Mexican Government to

restrain the movement of counterrevolutionaries
in carrying out their plans of aggression against -
Cuba. Attitude of the Government toward denunciations
of these activities aimed at promoting attacks against
our countr: Sanctioning of these activities.

c) Mexican. ¢pvernment-introduced changes in the security

zone in the Gulf of Mexico area with @ view toward
controlling Cuban activities.

d) Attitude of Mexican authorities in respect to the

passing out of counterrevolutionary propaganda
material.

Contacts among the counterrevolutionary chiefs
and high functionaries of the Mexican Government.

¢) ‘Constant reporting and newspapers concerning: the

position of M.L.N., P.P.S., and P.C.M,

d) Concerning the position of various sectors of PRI.
e) Regarding extreme rightist groups (PAN, Sinarchists).

£) Concerning accusations of Cutan interference in

the continent or that Cuta is a base of Communist
aggression.

COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS

a) Délegations of counterrevolutionary organizations

that function in Mexico, their heads, their activities,
directorates of the organizations, and house where
they function. Internal differences or contradictions
between the organizations, their causes.

b) Carlos Fernandez's trips through Central America.

Contact with Mexican reactionary parties and
organizations, aid which he receives from them.
Contact with the Yankee Emtassy and through whom,
aid received, and the personal life of Carlos
Fernandez. Trujillo, Contact with Cuba, through

whom, and of what type.

¢c) Activities of DRE (Directorio Revoluctonario

Estudantil) and of Angel Gonzales, contacts with

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


a)

a)

b)
ce)

a)
e)

f)

g)

h)

iu NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-S5- CS=311/02378-64

the Mexican’ Press and Yankee Press agencies,

aid received from these. Through what clements is
this aid effected, Contact with the Church,
propaganda plans of DRE. Means of communication
of DRE with Cuba and with its affiliate in Miami,
through whom are the contacts established and with
what frequency. Documents of this organization,
Places where it prints its Mexican propaganda,

Activities of PRC in'Mexico, Max Santana and the rest
of the organization's directors, contradicttons
existing ‘between them and the Prfo elements and in the
Géverning Secretariat, and the functionaries with whom
they function, and aid which they can count on.

Contact of this organization with the Yankee Entassy,

through whom is this ‘contact made, aid received.
‘Contacts with CTM (Confederation of Mexican Workers);
directors with whom is the contact made, Plans.

“cAetivity of “the Press Association (Colegio de

Périodistas) in exile and its directors, contact

of the State organisms and Mexican functionartes,

aig which they (Press Association) receive from

them, especially that from within the Secretariats

of ‘State and Government. Original documents of these.

STATE OF THE MOVEMENT FOR SOLIDARITY WITH CUBA

Organization and participants,

‘Influence of the development of the crisis on the

Solidarity.

Contact with political figures whose disposition
is favorable to Cuba,

M.L.N., P.P.8., P.C.M, solidarity activities.

Positions of Lazaro Cardenas, Manuel Moreno Sanchez,
Emilio Port Gil, and Lombardo Toledano.

Positions of student, peasant, women, worker, and
intellectual forces.

Prospects of effective solidarity actions in casé
of aggression against Cuba.

Favorable or unfavorable propaganda campaigns.
Organs, reporters, themes. (Adjusted to Congressional

plans.)

7. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES

a)

b)

mt

Reports concerning diplomatic questions with
Mexico, or vice versa.

Penetration of and reporting on the Inter-
Parliamentary Commission of the United States

and Mexico,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


is ©)

o

a)

: q a)

b)

e)°

-6- €S-311/02378-64

Information concerning North American political
and military penetration in Mexico. Military
missions, political influence and ideolo; anti-
guerrille courses, anti-Cuban propaganda, etc.”

Information concerning penetration and economic
relations at the official and private levels,
especially the Alliance for Progress, credit
organizations, and industriel branches.

« 8. €: tb. A.

CIA activities with Cuban colinterrevolutionaries io
Mexico, plans; objectives.

Cubans who function with the CIA, activities of
Saviur Cacia Pefia ‘and Enrique Herxandez, other
elements that work with the CIA.

Objectives “of these in their work with Cuba in
;this country. i

a)

ey
f)

6)

h)

Contacts of the counterrevolutionary organizations
resident in Mexico. :

CIA training schools in Mexico.

i ° !
Contacts of the Spanish Transatlantic Company,
use of this company to infiltrate ageats into
Cuba,

CIA activities with trevelers and Latin American
scholarship recipients coming into Cuba.

Other CTA-sponsored Cuban infiltration plans through
Mexico.

8-A.. REPRESSIVE BODIES

a)
by

ce)

a)

e)

Organisms of this type which are used in Mexico.
Structure, methods used. Their chiefs.

Plans and objectives of Mexican repressive bodies.
Measures taken in their fight against the National
Liberation Movement (MLN). Solidarity with Cuba.

Means adopted by these repressive bodies against
trips to or from Cuba, New means which are being.
utilized. .

Coordination existing between Mexican repressive
bodies and other Latin American groups. Meetings
held, places and dates.

Agreements made and methods adopted to implant
them. Measures against Cuba. Related elements.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


, : : S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-7- CS-311/0237:

f) Coordination existing between Interpol and
Mexican repressive groups. Measures against
Cuta. Restrictions on trips to and from Cuta
what do these consist of. ie

CENTRES

9. TRAINING CAMPS AND RECRUITL

a) Training camps existing on Mexican territory.
Location and organizations which maintain or
are at- the head of training camps. Type and
length of training; instructors.

b) Recruiting of Cuban mercenaries-destined for

“". Mexican or Central American training camps.
Recruiting centres, places where they are situated.
Wiements which act as a front for them, organi-
¥ations to which they belong. :

Countries to which the mercenaries are sent.
Location and types of training camps; duration.
_Eabarcation points, use of. mercenaries’ trips.

Plans and objectives of trainees,

st e) Location of counterrevolutionary operational
bases for pirate attacks against our coasts.
Their embarcations and type of equipment.
Organizations to which they belong.

f) Plans and objectives of the counterrevolutionary
groups which participate in these activities.

10, INFORMATION ON THE STATE OF THE LEFTIST FORCES

-a) Relations between them, degree of unity, and
conflicts.

b) Relations of’ each with the Government.

c) Permanent contact with the MLN, PCM, POCM, and
PPS. Reports concerning their position toward :
each fact or situation.

d) Leftist insurrectionist groups.
‘e) Repression of the left.
f) Peasants’ Independent Central (Central Campesina

Independiente), penetration. Permanent or
periodic contact.

are STATE _OF THE COUNTRY'S POLITICAL PARTIES OR GROUPS

a) Information regarding composition, strengths,
penetration, factions, directors, programs of:
PRI, PAN, and SINARCHIST, PPS, MLN, POCM, PCY,
and other groups.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSE¥



b)
ce)
a)
e)
f)

cece au FUNELGS DISSEM
-8- CS-311/02378-64

Relations with the North American Embassy.
National and International position.
Participation in parliament.

Directors friendly to Cuba.

Source of funds.

12, MEXICAN COMMUNIST PARTY

a)
b)

es)

4).

e)
t)
: 8)
h)
4)
3)
k)
1)
m)
n)

°)
p)

a)
r)

_ 8)

_orde!

Position toward the II Havana Declaration.
Position concerning Soviet-Cuban relations.

Position taken regarding the path followed by
Cuba in. the national and international political

Position-in relation to disputes within the
international Communist movement.

The case of China and the U.S.S.R.

The case of Albania and the U.S.S.R.

In reference to Yugoslavia-China-USSR-Albania.
Relative to peace.

Concerning peaceful coexistence.

The Party's internal situation.

Directing forces.

Splits: Thoughts of the different Nuclei.
Relations with other leftist forces.

Disputes (especially which ones and. why have
there been differences with the "Cardenistas").

Work aiming at the unification of the progressive
forces. Work in the organization of the masses.

Role of the PCM in the Movement of National
Liberation (MLN).

Ways of fighting officially adopted by the PCM.

Relations with the bourgeois parties and the
Mexican Government,

Publicity means of the Mexican Communist Party.

S-E-C-R-E-T ‘
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



S~E~C-R-E-T
NC FOREIGN DISSEM

Gopi -Ge- CS-311/02378-64
t) Establishment of permanent and periodic contacts
with the PCM.
u) Solidarity work with Cuba.
v) Da~id Siguiero’s position. .
IMPORTANT
13. THE COUNTRY’S FOREIGN POLICY
a) Position taken on questions of interna‘ional
tension (Peace, Disarming, Berlin, etc.). .
b) - Position towards countries within the Socialist
camp.
=e) Relations or agreements with other Latio American
. countries.
Position toward the Afro-Asian neutralist bloc and

a)

Yugoslavia. i

14, FUNCTION, CHARACTERISTICS, AND FACTS ABOUT MEMBERS OF THE

FOREIGN SERVICE AND DIPLOMATIC CORPS ACCREDITED IN THE
COUNTRY

a)
b)
ce)
4)
e)
ft)

UN

OAS and JID (Inter-American Defense Board).
Functionaries in Cuba.

Functionaries in Socialist countries.
Functionaries in and from Latin America.

Functionaries in and from neutral countries.

15. POLITICAL LIFE OF THE COUNTRY

a)

b)
¢)

a)

e)

Information about the possible presidential
candidate of PRI.

Fraternal organizations of the bourgeoisie.

Intimate facts about the country's political

_ personalities.

Position of the different forces in regard
to happenings of a national character.

Tdeologic penetration of the United States
in various social circles.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


16

17.

1)

8)
h)

Struggles of the pi
peasant, and worke

Government program

The National Peasa

‘Nacional Campesina

- 10 - CS-311/02378-64
opular sectors. (Student,
rs' struggles.)
: Causes and true ends.

eal Center (Central

INTERNAL SITUATION OF THE ARMED FORCES

a)
b)

ce)

-@)

ft)

8)

h)
i)
3»
k)

1)

The high military
personalities. ©

Aray, Navy, and At.
and equipment.

Military chiefs.

Political orientat.
Ayguiietits, materia

Milita
by”

United Stat

Facts about lexica'
outstanding in int
American Defense Bi
Enbassies.

Conversion to the

command: Organization,

r Force: Organization, arm

ion of the Armed Forces:
1 used.

'y penetration, official and non-official,

es in Mexico.

in military personnel who
ernational organiams (Inter-
joard and the UN) and in

right of Mexican military

personnel in North American Armed Forces

schools,

Influence which ex-military progressives can

exercise within th

Relation of State
Arny.

Repressive bodies:
organization. Spe

Political groups o:
Forces.

Anti-guerrilla tra

THE CATHOLIC CHURCH

a)
b)

c)

a)

Its contacts with

Relation between t.
and those of the Ui

The fight against

Campaigns against
Cuban Revolution,

NO

e Army.

governments with the Federal
The various groups. Their

cific functions and sponsorship.

r positions within the Armed

ining and preparation.

political forces,

he plans of the church
Inited States in Mexico,

laicism.

the influence of the

S-E-C-R-E-T
FOREIGN DISSEM -


18.

ia.

20.

21,

S-E-C-R-E-T

i: NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-ll- CS8-311,02378-64
e) Facts about the ecclesiastic hierarchy, Its
intimate facts and activities.
COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
a) Information about illegal acts of counterrevolutionary
organs and elements, drug traffic, white slavery,
foreign exchange, counterfeiting of dollars, manner
in which these activities are developed.
" pRESS i
‘ay Facts about reporters and organs of dissemination.

Possibility of using it, in the country as well
as abroad.

PRENSA LATINA. AND ITS FORCTIONS

a) Use of Prensa Latina services in the country's
press. ae
b), Political and repertorial weaknesses in the
. work of Prensa Latina and its branch office.
: : ¢
c) Interesting or important facts happening in
Cuba which not given enough coverage by
Pren: tina's branch.
a) Suggestions or ways to use or improve the
capabilities of Prensa Latina's branch in
general or in specific ways. ‘
NECESSARY, :

SEARCH FOR COLLABORATORS WHO MIGHT GIVE INFORMATION ABOUT
THE ECONOMIC SITUATION

a)
b)
c)
a)

e)

1)

8)

h)

North American economic penetration,
Foreign investment in Mexico.
Economic plans of the government.
Agrarian property modification plans.
Monopolization of Mexican capital.

Direction (tendency) of the unemployment
level.

Population growth and exportation of agricultural
workers (braceros) to the United States.

Tourist industry.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


a )

‘ NO FOREIGN DISSEM
i ae CS-311/02378-64

Mexico's position with respect to Latin American
economic integration and the European Common

Market.

22, GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONING OF ITS ORGANS

a)
b)

-e)

4)

e)
t)

Relations and interdependency between the Presidency
and the Ministries,

Those closest to and most influential over Lopez
Mateos, Facts about them.

Congress: Figures loyal to the president: ‘
Relations with the North American Ent

“positions toward the Cuban Revolution,

Judicial Power: Relations with other powers
Persons who occupy high judicial office. Most
important legislation,

State governments. Facts about the governors.

MINREX (Ministerio de Relaciones Extranjeros).
Influential functionaries. Facts about th
Type of work, salaries.

$-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM .

