‘04-10186-10190] {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

ONBRERO RISEN FORMATVONSRER

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ee ‘This material cootains information afecting the National Defense of une Cuited States within the meaning of the Esptovage Lawn Tite
16, UBC Bece TH and 704, “the tranemiasion oF rersistion of which in ant manner to an unautheriend person te prohitited by law.
. SECRET
' NO FOREIGN DIBSEM
Country Cuba REPORT NO. C$ CI-316/00629-65
susect "Pelencho" (an alias) DATE DISTR. 10 February 1965 |
: NO. PAGES 2
u REFERENCES, é

pee. % 1964 :
pace g Washington, D. C. E
Date aca, December, 1965 FIELD REPORT NO.

"THIS1S_UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEVINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE,

source, A former Cuban IS officer lho served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency. :

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this, Agency.

1, Source knew "Pelencho," whose true name he was unable
to recall, as a member of the Departamen‘.o de Seguridad del
Estado (Department of State Security - DSE). He was a good
friend of Norberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo (see CSCI-316/01239-64,
12 October 1964). ~

2. “Pelencho" was born between 1935 and 1940, is five feet
six inches tall, weighs 135 pounds, and has a slim build.l

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal. no information on "Pelencho."

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

mone

‘STATE Tow Army, T wavy Taw Tas T KX Toce TFBr 2
REP CINCLANT CINCSO #___I&NS

(Note: Field distribution Indicated by “#".)
ra [Jurca 19020 (8dec
mn 1.4O PROJECT (AMMUG;
fe Avasu fsa a i —Tcsc1-316/00629-
E [famerarng

Fsbo,

‘S|
a/eave._lal
vores WH/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

VaR
