\io4-104%240005| . [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |:

2 ele MESSAGE ‘3 pari CX
. : coe, |
; stonat cenvanuse ont” : 8 a gor
off oo o Go oO oO cD oO u
CRET
Seater carer onour om #5 wesonceneranince mine
;DEFERRBED TELEPOUCH 1702042 WASHINGTON 414708
conse H{NP. O mor. DISSEM BY:
5 nro: Fite D - wo mioex ee
D seromro: PER 20/0 2%
wo :, Oem :
ceT0: ¥ pd 5 24 - F :
FROM: © SE/BIO. INFO SE/CI/Xy SE/X/EUs EA gy ye —
| SUBJECT!» UNINTEL: CKTOP. ‘eneeave qe? ARACE_ON. VLADINIE}

: SK U:ZN E TS OV {ASSIGNED 201-0943b1034

Sat

REFERENCE? [wus Am 025302] as

a

oC Tar

ACTION: FOR Less any AND FYIY

iE T sov ASSIGNED 201-0543b103 Is ©)

1. VCADINIR vk 4

OFFICER {FYI: (Posarrsry, ers, bro.

“2. FYI: _ ACCORDING 10 ) PISTORAGE, AS OF oct b?s ‘VLapznrr z i
RGEYEVICH KUZNETSOV HELD THE RANK OF ENGINEER-NAJOR AND ‘vas Re ae

ASSIGNED TO THE THIRD £ TANGLO- AMERICAN} DIRECTORATE AT THE. GRU HEAD-
UARTERS IN MOSCOW. SOMETIME EARLIER. IN 247, KUZNETSOV ATTENDED “he
THE MILITARY “DIPLOMATIC ACADENY~ END FYI-Y.. : :
3. FYI: SUBJECT or (PiStoRAce AND (POBATISFY INFORMATION:
IS NOT IDENTICAL wITH VLADINIR SERGEYEVICH KUZNETSOV {e01-! o%00eS ay

WHO SERVED AS COUNSELOR AT THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN JAKARTA FROM we 0

25." END FYI. ’ z, e : i :

DATE: 7
ORIG:

one: me ee
"B20! 900057 ~ [Record cory | = gol-13 6/0

eusninearon REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED © ° rae IMPDET.”
eae (a ict SCL BYs

£



D Bk.
cone: Coinro: rue Qn 7ee 1 fas

O nents PER

Domes #.
4. AS KUZNETSOV Is’ A Connon SOVIET. SURNAME HEADGUARTERS vr

> 201-0900259...E-2 INPDET.

. 13 SEPT 7b ce : ne
:_SE/BIO 3 D0.
KN
BXISSL R= az, ~SE/CI/X
°
SE/X/EW He N tie ny 8
NE " EABNAAB, Ik: aA Meas
“Caasaieinivion's rernopuerion BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE Fis byowtarres E: 2° fmepet

“BY! nganton

