# 104-10220-10002

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10220-10002

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUANTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT CONJITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUBBER/VOLUNE:

_C- 56216

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

c1/04

ROOM: '

DELETIONS, IP AIY:.

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIEVING OFFICIAL

"OT PEVIEWED BY HISCA'

200F3

NO DOCUNENTS NAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

4-00000

SECRET

(sher

1111nd 10)

DATE

CASE

по.

TO:

INSTRUCTION SHEET

processing Section

PLEASE TARE

THE FOLLOWING

(APOSTO ChOCA "RONOrdA"

AC-T+ON

OM

SET UP PORI

CASE

SONTH AHOVE.

ДОЛ ПІТНЯ

В с 10 Đ0

SET UP

1001

ISSUR OPERATIONAL APPROVAR

ISSUE

•OVISIONAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

STILE

OUTSTANDING

PORDARO ATTACMMENY TO DIVISION

FORMARO ATTACHMINT TO SECURITY

потуся!

109

PASPARE CANCALLATION

SEMO TO RIVARCHIVES

1118

ENTEND POA YON

DAYS UNTIL

REGURDT NI TRACES

REOUTES

DRIRATIONAL O DIV.

TRACES

REGUES!

DIBLO TRAÇES

ABQUABT

Воо.

=J.00 1.

REQUISY ADDITIONAL DIOGRAPHIE INFO

HEQUEST COLEN LIST

PUAMSBA GRELA LIST IMPONMATION

AROUBET ARRULTE OF TECH. INTERMOGATION.

DEMO "OUCAY" PERRO TO DIVISION

отнея (B00 Romar»»)

707

+08-776-2317 Ssr le ténnes

SECRET

1218

---

## Page 3

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

SUBJECT:

C- 56246

1. The Chief, CI/QA, 1e hereby advised that the PP/C/UWG

has no: further present intereet in the aubject individual.

2. PP/C/UWG wishes to express appreciation for the promps

assistance rendered by C/CI/OA on thia casè.; It was especially

advantageous in view af the short time with which contact associaled

with the subject was available. !

1 li! 1!

Chief

Unconventional Warfare Group, PP Staff

CANCELLED

Fro 2 6 1958

COPY TO SECURITY

Enc

FEB 21

2 26 PH 38

SECRET

22732

---

## Page 4

4-00000

SECRET :

19 February 1958

ATXERFIONS

0-50806

2. Raference 10 nado to gour request dated 6 JanUary 1958

for a Proviaional Oporational Aparoval for subjeot.

PoRRa advIEe (T/OA as to the statua of this caso. U-

Loas a reply 19 ronairod fraa por virala thirty days, talo coas

uill be closod and tha silo sorested to RI/ Arabirea.

Gales, g4/01

08/02/40308

SEGRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

1 SLANG VOLE 1J 4445561101

SUNNECT

ALIASES, VARIARI SPELLINGS, CIE MUNREAS, ETC.

BLATA NATA

H. BIRTH PLACE

s. CRetlimo Unlead Statoa

6. PRESENT ACTIVITI AND LOCATION

NOB WOTKIng.

Middlo Laot to obtain aircraft

pilot Job. any company.

7. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATICH

Aircrali Pilot

RE SONSE TO GREEN 41S5

REQUEST NO.

& January

DATE OF REQUISI

REQUEST FRAM

MAMI OF ORIGIMAI:NÜ OFFICER

OFFICE DESIGHATON PP/UWG

POOM, BUILDING 2403 K

EXTENSION $237

18. WAS CONTINUINE SEAREN RECWESTEDR

= но

IX TYPE OF REQUEST

• FIRST TIME SUBNITTED

ADDITIONAL DATA

COVER

NAME

1E. INTEREST IN SUBJECT

ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

X OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

ОТМЕЯ

17.

INFORMATION REQUIRED

B. MILITARY SERVICE

Unkno wa

PAST OCCUPATICOS

ACTIVITY

LOCATION

LOCATION

Tit Thora"

RAYtS

$

DATES

?."

(HAIR) =:.. (RACE)

10. DESCRIPTION

(HE"ONT)

(MEIGHT)

(EYES)

11. SPOUSE (IF MIFE, GIVE MAIDEN MAME)

Divorced

• no date

12. OTHER MEMBERS OF INKEDIATE FAMILY, AND ASSOCIATES

jebildron

13. OTHER SIGRIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION, ETC)

Unknown

(OTHER)

ATTACH EXTRA SHEETS WHEN NEEDED

INSTRUCTIONS:

INSERT CARBON:

FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.

SEND BOTH SHEETS TOFUD.

SEE CS1-10-7

• 8, 508 016

SECRET

108

USED.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

TO: TGRode1

FROM: 51/0 %

2 vanuary 1258.

В.

c. d

SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/GIO BIOSHLPHIE FILES.

A MEMDAANDUM IS ATTACHED HERETO.

MITM THE LIMITEO IDENTIFICATION PHOVIDED IN THE REQUEST,

STO IS UNABLE TO DETERMINE MMETHER THERE IS INFOPMATION

ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

D.

FI/STE HAS NO PERTINENT INFOPMATION GA SUBJECT. IF A

CONTINUING SEARCH WAS REQUESTLO IN SECTION

14.

INFOTMATION ABOUS THE SUBJECT WILL BE REPORTED TO YOU

AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPAREMTLY THE SUBJECT OF

THE

FOLLOMING:

To havo a security Offico request on subject.

The folloring New York Ilies Artieles refer to tho Subjects

MOTE TO THE ORIGIMATING OFFICE

ri:?

-ді•;

WHEN THE SUBJEGT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, 'WITH.

THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION MOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE

SENT TO FIISTD.:.

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/STO THE SHEETS

FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO LONGER OF SUFFICIENT

INTEREST

TO DEMAND A CONTINUING

NAME CHECK.

PLEASE DO MOT TIE UP FISTD'S FACILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES

FOR INFORMATION THAT IS HOT REQUIRED.:

TO:::

FROM:

FI/D

DATE

MAME

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

ROOK.

BUILDING

-

EXTERSION

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

---

## Page 7

4-00000

SECRET

(ton Pillar in)

70

FROM

APPROVAL REQUEST

Deputy Diroccor of Scourily

Lor, it/Operation T

**" Didge

and Support Division

C-56246

SUBJECT:

NO.

153126

TYPE OF

REQUIRT

Траор. л.

1...

INDICES RESULTS

REQUESTED OY

JEns

Ao SoOn Au Possiblo

S- AREA O1 BUDDICT'S ASSIONHENT

A. UNS DA SUAJACT

Contaot and Assesamant

INvESTIGATION MOT

tO REVEAL• INTrI

ГАТЕ

6 Janary 1950

PROJECT

aT (Da10)

MITHOO OF MAMOLIME

ROUTINE

HOI CHECK

REQUESTED

Aa Soon As Posalble

COVER SUGGESTEO

FIELD TRACES

TRACKS

ATTACHMENTS'

КАЖАЯЛЯ

LI8T INITIATIO

P.C

10

EXPEDITE

Date_

tomes sin

500 88

693

YeN TO JU SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

6 January 1958

MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/OA

ATTENTION:

T. Carroll

SUBJECT:

Request for POA

1.

It is requested that POA bo furnished on

tho following individual for contact and

aase sement

with a view of the Agency'a use of this Individual

in tho flold:

2. It would be approciated if this POA

could be expedited in as much as il la anticapated

that a mooring will bo held & January 1958 with

regard to contact with thie individual.

Desmond FitzGerald

Chief

Psychological and Paramilitary Stall

---

## Page 9

14-00000

CHIEF, CI/OA

sappt aby

SECRET

(8941 86110189)

REQUEST FOR CANCELLATION OF APPROVAL

FRON

FR A15 BLaSS

10 1100 07

IrMa A000)

& Jene une

PROJICT

30 JAnuary 1957

A .

6-56846

GATE CP DIETN

REASORITI TOA CANCELLATIÓN

bill not be employod.

¡ 38 PH°57

Dlotr1but10ng

Addiessoo a Celg. & l ec.

FE/AIR

• 1 ce.

CH

• 1 co.

AGENT'S PLAVICE RECORR IN (NIPACHON) (VILI De lorpardod):

NA

in sUBJeCT IS USED IN anY CAPACITY.

A MIO RIGURST POR APPROVAL

40.937

SECRET

1881

---

## Page 10

14-00000

CIA INTERMAL USE ONLY

SECRET

PERSONALITY A30+T FILE REQUEST

Dary lou 5T

c = 1eato

TO

RI/ARISCIO SECTION

FROM

CI DA

INSTRUCTIONS:

(inclusing

SECTION 111:

1o be

4109.910918149

ноом но.

ІНІОРМОНЕ

201 Ababar

ond onaplo1

SECTION

хот то.

DOUNCE

1424

" DOCUMENT

RIANALYSIS

CO

ferrars

UPOR RECHIPT

DESTROVED

MACHINE LISTING

con usi diana

OCCIPOS. COOR

SECTION 10

PRUDONYM

5E2466

SECTION III

DNO COUNTRY INTERROr 18.

IDO COUNTRY INTRAROT

$ да.

COMMENTOI ECSATICTOD CIOL TOLDEN IN EDI TALIS:

Monoritato

SEP 26 1957

: N2"8. 831 v86202/1008

ADITICAS.

pionatuRe

SECRET

CIA INTERMAL USE ONLY

1801.

1 800

---

## Page 11

4-00000

SI CAL

MEROBANDUN FOR:

18/A03

23 82 8599

C1/0p91-5110191 Approval and Suppore D1-la1on

SULJECT:

Your request dated, →=30.805.1956

to use ena SubjACE han

cech procasued

2. Tha revulso of this action are tranomitted nerowith.

vant to continuo your inioroot in Subicot.

Attachment:

SO MINO 20 San 19580 20

d.!.

D108s1butIon:

1 Addresse

1 8116

SECRET

030U 09. 396

07-00

101.0 10 0000a090

1O8D

---

## Page 12

14-00000

T6:

Fnceissing Saetion

SECRET

dollod

INSTRUCTION SHEET

1/19/57

PLEASA

I FAKE THF

TINTINTRE, ACTION DA TRE CASE SET TONIRI AROVE.

(Alanpo thaad dHonardoo beloo loe dearloprans de 101a01o)

CASA NO.

C-56246

SET UP YDR:

*0 1

wiTh.

apr6lt.1990011

BAT UFTORI

ISSUT OPIGAYIONAL APPROVAL

PROVISIGNAL

OPATATIONAL APFROVAL

Tntasttaaddon bIrle turatarbiNG

PORDARD ATTACHMINTI TO SECURIIY

MOTICEL.

PAEPARA CANCRLLATION PORM

SEMO TO RIIAACHIYES

FILR

EXTEMO POA FOR

N390

[j***

DAYS UMPIL

PeevIa

REQUEJY DI TRACEA

?e0ea1

THACES

REOULST

EIELD PRACES

AEQUEST

ASUUEST ADDITIONAL DIOGRAPHIS INPO

REGUEST GREEM LIST

FURNISH GREEN LI8T IAPORMATION

REQURST RESULTS ON TECH. INTERROGATION

SEMO "OUCAY" MEMO TO OIVISION

OrMEA (Soe Readrdo)

d want to continie

your intereat in Duljice?

80. 707

SECRET

1808

---

## Page 13

14-00000

÷ 50203.

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Chirt, Ci/OA

DATES

1 U JAN 1957

FROM &

Donuty Direcior of Security (Investlantions ind Sunnort)

SUNJECT!

G-56246

F1:3126

1. Rolorenco l10 mile to your nchornnaus daled 30 Norenbor

1956 rheroin a Provisional Corert Secilty Apriorl und a Corere aj

Seeirity Approvil vere icquerted for incini evniuntion and orloy-

Your attontion lo directed to infornation srailable to

your offlee located in RI file $200-7-32-66 which 1s the

Additionally,

RI f1l0 $201-1424 conteins MI reports dated in 1950 and 1951 whereln

onestionilo infornatior regradine: Subjoctis activities and ment'l

competence la set forth.

In tlew of the information set forth above, a Protialoral

Covert

Security Approval connot be granted prior to completion or

extensite inquiries in this case.

In light of the highly nuestionablo

Inforantion ao set forth in RI socos, it 1a rocuested that the

interosted divialon five due conclueration en to the fesaib1l1ty of

continuing interent in retaining Subject's serricos.!

Pendine your

adrice as to the continunsce of the division's

Interest d7 thie chec, no further notion 1s contemlnied by th1o

JOR THE DIFICIOR OF SECURITY:

Ken.

contacted

SECRET

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECRET

Frilod In:

DA!T

IT liest

TO:

INSTRUCTION SHEEY

Processing Section

PLEASE

TAKE THE FOLLOMING ACTION ON THE CASE SET FORTH ANUVE.

(Alnoyo chard "Racordon boloo lor propationo de Jalaila)

BET UP TORI

РОЛ ПІТА.

181980188

9UT UP FORI

D...

LJ...

IASUR OPIRATIONAL APPROVAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

INVESTIGATION

STILL DUTSTANOINO

FORMARO ATTACHMEMT TO DIVISION

FORWARD ATTACHMEAT TO SECURITY

MOTICE:

PREPARE CANCELLATION PONM

SEND TO RIPARCHIVES '

P1L8

EXTEMO PJA FOR

DAYS UNTIL

REMARRSE

ARONEST DI TRACKS

REQURYT

OPERATIONAL A DIV. TRACES

REVIEST FIELD TRACES

REONEST

Тa..

D.nо..

REDiESE ADDITIONAL DIOGRAPHIC INTO

MEQUEST CAREM LIST

FURMISH GREEN LIST IMFORMATION

ACOURST RESULTS OR TECH, INTERRODATION

SENO "OUERY" MEMO TO DIVISION

OTHER (Soo Romacho)

Send Vast t S0

cren

1 510 s6

но. 707 .

•Ise she is ste nee to theatre for t

SECRET

188)

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECRET

10 Decenins 195t

MENORANDUM FOR: Criset, CI/0A

SUBJECT:

C-56216

201-1144-32

1.

Transites herewill 10 two .coples or additional

B1o3raphle Information, Juut reculved 1n this Divialon ou

the avoid cubject.

It 10 regreated that one cout of the 110graphle

Inforcation bo rorscried to 0s/Su2, attentior:

Distribution:

Addressco - Orig. & 1 cc.

SECRET

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SAIL ANT TRANSPORT

PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT U...U..!

APPLICATION FOR RAPOYMENT

Data teastrad

Date of Argiliarion

COPY 3-12/7/56

(lant)

Aprach phorograph lakon

within parl 18 months.

1a. Name in full:

14. in matre larquait

(Firall

(2 1ldio)

20.. Namo de birth, il durlarant frum abora

Inatruelinna

Type or priat

all anators.

All queattona

muat bo anemoral fully.

11

auficione suaro has not broi

provicted

compiole your an.

amar undor llain 38 or on a

separata pago.

88. Have you ever sown anton by any ithor names

11 arnoor is "f'ca", sire name, sime, plaie and elrcumacancos

under Ilom Na 10

Present Allroas and Tolophone No.:

1b.

Ja. Marital Scarus

1J Singla

I Married

y No

3b. O Widowed

UJ Virurcad

I Hoparoled

Parmanent home adiroas and Telophono No.:

Samo as in lu Immediatoly predeeding

8. Dato of birth (Donth, doj, yoar)

i. Sen

H.

Armala

Height

582

(.) tomalo

a Place of birth Tier, countrri

10. Color at cyou

it. Calur of hair

Alue-Grey

Hrown and Grey

Describo any apocial or outatanding characterialics or identifying marko.

None

PREVIOUS ADDRESSES DURING PAST TEN JEANS

City

From

To

2.

in.

H'alsht

10020.

12.

compleston

Falr

Country

Liat ouch country of which you have !

boon a cition kirtue delea

manner of acquiailian of each citizenahip.

How Citizenship was Acquired

Passport

Jesuing auchorses ÜS Dept. or State

Date of lague

Validity Period

Valid for countries All but Rod FloC:

T%. Social Security No

Labour Inauranco Na

Othere

hone

Cilizen Certificate No"

None

None

18.

WIFE-CHILDREN (Include f'ror Marriages)

NAME

T DATE UF RIRTHT

PRESENT ADDRESB

19. (0) FATHER'S NAME

(d) PRESENT ANDRESS

Decedged

(8)

NATIONALITI AT BIRTH

USA

10. (D) MOTHER'S NAME

(d)

PRESENT ADDRESS

Dosaazed

"' NATIONALITY AT BIRTH

0SA.

DEI ATINTO INTA

OCCUPATION

Hose Economiat

Student

Stident

House-wrocker (7)

1D) DATE OF BIRTH | (C) PLACE OF BIRTH ((ly. CouPlry)

(P) PRESENT OrCUPATION

Decesrod

LE PRESENT NATIONALITY

L'SA

(D) DATE OF BIRTH

(0) PLACE OF BIRTH (Cy. Country)

(0). PRESENT OCCUPATION

Decassed

18) PRESENT NATIONA'ITY

---

## Page 17

Mera at ara or intridinat

.119)

Bualness or serspstica

To so on any counts l05A, for Kons, del mois loos

Antine israel, rise, Cousing,

Indicate relationahip or inconore of popussalanco.

Relalune?

None

herman dia decade earrot o a ron hell are to cited or s

No

!' Dran91 to "Yet" dire Pull detaile undor liam No. 89

Mato you erad beon arrasad or dotalial by any pollen or milicary authorityi li so bant the arresting aatharity, glas

lime, plara and reason dur eueb arrao: or delention, ará lie die;ellion or court action undor lem 31

841.

Porcua lo Dulily in caro uf oinorporco:

Telaphana

Too this apare for completine anamoro to any of the foregone destina numbering alatera so curreal with questions.

see ne point hurther elaborating inse did sors

1e. 1.

coen ly boluone vaild "last

ala suntha firat Class US LAs chysical criricote wish no salvera and Canadian (ICAU)

Grade I thyaical (of six praden)

20.

Any Acticional Infortration uhlch you may wrist to did:

The applicant is woll were that the work rocom nerein poes back but one year.

glad to furnish the compary an extoustive arcourt of my employment back to 1935

There 18 little purpose to be served in this, houever.

never have I bold a coultion for longer than one year (1.k.:

There 18 no way that I can deny on cbrious tact:

I seen a poor rias fur consideration as a permanent employee.

Yet time has traunatically

cured me of "get richluick" schemes and I'll not be easy prey of anyone in the Orient

who holds out an

extra hundred a nonth as bait.

An accutaly suere that I'm 32.

old to be a co-pilot in most countries and unions, seniority rights, ot ol,

are gradually

procluding = hiring out as captain.

CAT sisy be my last chanco for a fina job.

11 you do hire me and I do leave, for uriatever reason, there will bo l1tele

doubt in the minds of those concerned but tiat I will have done my beat.

CANTIFICATE OF CORECTNEES

Dates 810t02078 011 tria Applicacion is Causo 1u% l'orminction.

I DO SOLEMNLY AFFIRM THAT THE INFOSATIO: CLUTAINED BLARIN IS CONHECT.

Laca

Nass de busly o ricos and tai

---

## Page 18

14-00000

traindon

It 4,000 i ta tires to 59455-8-44459; sid

a1.

NAME

ASLATIONSHIP SETIOYALITY USUPATION/

HORO

88.

Liat any ciose relatires

(father, mother, brother, sister, husband, vito, children) who aro empluyrd by any agoDer of

any natiunal or any local gurernment.

Name

Rolationship

Name and addrons of government arency

Nono

23. Laundra (arre aml indicato she extons of your competenco, lie,

Tal Languaso

-(c) Head

Excollent, Good, Fair)

(d) Write

(0) Undresland

24.

80.

l'ocalional qualincationa (Licence, certifcale, ele.):

rami Ilt you hare pree traveled in any uther countries sure the dates, duration and purpore al such prarel. "l trave

ras in the Uniled Stairs, suppiy under item No. jy audariunal dala, Includina type of visa, placo and dale ol isauanco

ate and

ente and partod searce, in the

Únicod Scales, place uf readenco in thio Uniled Staion aid the dale and pors ul departuro

Country

Purpos

From

88 Menibarship Lial societies, serociations, clubs and other organizatlons of which you are not or hate been a mamboi.

Mit for a could ella ande a rene, fine, given revel f corico, unis or arraniacion, apa

NUUCATION

Nause and Localions of Secondary and Hiber

Educalional lostitutiona Alloadod

Prom Detes Alone Deran lavor Subert

JULI

---

## Page 19

14-00000

E0. ESPLOTMANT

Dels a restopen (Moath, pess)

458. '55

MeRa Bed Address of Imployment

To PrEsent Trona

Uns Conunrialto Stood ll serenary.

Es ael lillo of your poettl

Bauary or carplaga

Fune Lance flying with

vArioue non-sceds on

Marting $ AYRTARO

рах тр.

CAHs and Ford Motor Cos

Final & Sec per aidan.

porta dieperaal contract

Duttes

Flyine captain and rebarto on Collo

гевотто он DС-48.

In oreor to cal rogularly

Vales al espirjeeat (Moals, paar)

Preo: jeb. '56,

Tos Augr.'56

Trees lillo of your popilos

«ВТРІВ

Pree lanco flying with

Pal 1500 plus Rs. 1/8

Indian non-sceda de ruleritarina 2000 plan R8. 20/0

to 021ng C-llas for

Eases at Calcutta

Name end this el harsadlaba sem

arriott

Lara pren shul Mith fungus.

Doves of diariagearl (Mosle, year)

Presss, CEr '55

Tos FeD. '56

Nana end Address ul Employspons

Terry Panäptiär/Dun Dus.

FLyIne CAptAin DC-38 Manam Valley Juring

the sonsoon season, food-dropping Napa Hill

and Himalayaa, Capt. PEYSA Calcutta/Andanar

Exact lillo of gour posilton

Salary

or earningo

Canadian 8600 plus 85 over 10

Captain l Copilot.

Brarting &

Canal an 8950 plua Soner 60

par yr.

Nassa and tillo al loradtato supartisa.

Dutio

Mov Co-Pilot on Avro Yorks and DC-48

Harao los desirtas to chango employmaat

Mou captain on C-ufs on DEW-lino. Fon capt

DC-38 (ak1-equipped) & PB85As on M1d-Canada

Al. Have pos over boas dischargad os latcod to resign los misconduct or unsalialectory sortles from any positios?

No &

11 anster la "Yea" atra full deraila ander Ilam Na 89.

Yes

Il dob appilad lor:

23(0) Have yuo don on over had isy payedcal do

cun-inor icon

traalment los a manlal of erso.

Y en

No

Y en

No

X

1) Whats to salt 18 monthe, hate you frequenly te

vodkatine. tonorages io exoon

(0) Were you over medically or diabororably discharged from

the armand forces?

No.

Yo X for aforeagla vounda

(1 il any el your actrero do Any al the abono to -Yao" frivo fall particulara undor llars 88.

28

indereroe. Ust ire competent and rosponsible persone.

Addron

Occupation

it of isola ni

Jin basis or born bad la Day contry (OSA, Dis East, de) Dul tale

---

## Page 20

10

Atta

FROM

SUBJECT:

...

SECRET

Pillad tas

REQUEST FOR IMVESTIGATION AND (OR) HAME CHECK

Deputy Direroor of Security

Chief, Cl/Operational Approval

and Support Dirision

56246

TYPE Or AROUESE

ITRO DY

DA 18

PROJECT

30 Nor 1256

JBOREED

P. ME.PHOO. 01

CHECK

AFQUESTED

or (Da10)

FAIR

USE

INVESTIGATIDN MOT, TO RAVCAL• INTEREST OF

РІЗКО ГЛАСЛЯ

Will be ford whon rood.

AI TRACRO

18.

IMVESTIGATIOH

Scountaine

D. AESULTS OF TRACKS

TIATIO

080801

blog.

80o Memo 30 for 1956 and attachment no. 1.

se

693 USE PaCHIOUS ADIYIONS.

SECRET

...•.М.і»

..r!.....

80

188

due dottin-s sirs, 9449 13-24

---

## Page 21

22533

SECRET

(89, 00 51110819)

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND

APPROYAL

TO:

CI/Gerational Approval und Support

DIVIBION

FROM:

SUBJECT

TRUE HAME

¿HIPTONYM DO ASKULONYM

FIFT OF DOMP ON PUFLOYLE

0A9t

30 wrother 1056

PNOTTI

CHOA FILE NO.

SO FILE NO.

D's Attachment it

Reyurated

7129, 29 liovenber 1956

APPEOVAL

WADE

CHECK

SPICIAL

'InGusar (30 flold incorridation)

Will be forwarded when receivedPRo aMD

OR

«CUIVALENT.

PRO II IS AtTACHED.

OBTAINADLE

ІМПОРМАТІМ

ATTACHED

COVERAMENT

COMMERCIAL

RI TRACES

TYPE ACTION REQUESTEO

T%

PMOVISIONA COVINE SECURITY APPADVAL

COVEAT

SECUHITY

APPROVAL

OPRIETARY

APPROVAL

OTHERI

GREEN

LIST STATUS

400 11 mILL

FURNAMORO WHEN RECEIVIO

CHERN LINT CUPCA HAS AREN INITIATED

FIELD

TRACES

X"ILL DE POMMAMORO UNEM RECEINED

NOT INITIATED.

NUY EXPECTIO TO POSSESS RELEVANT INTO.

SUGGESTED

_INVESTIGATIVE COULA

ACADEMIC

OTHERI

odatory

allach

пиплату)

RECORD

NON-

DEROGATORY"

DEROGATORY

NO RECORD

RECOND

INDICATE SPECIAL LIMITATIONS ON IMVESTIGATION OR SPRCIAL

COVERACE DESINED

DIVISION TRACES (•11 dOTOgAOry DeRACA DUMancy)

arnodaroar!

моч.

DEROGATORY

NO RECORD

SUBJECT

FORM NO.

•I AUG BE

• 772

cc:

Twine wit

SECRET

stra + 10-5618

188

---

## Page 22

5-5-1-1-2-8

Dive: 30 Hoverber 1256_

Artactusent ic. !

SUrFELT:

1. It In tequeslid tinea Prorislonal Covert security .

Approval end a covert security approvel he granted to permit

the use of

as SOLlONsi

L'o pairo as an alt iren goober abrisir! EBLiKA

airerft mitoning flights sl a serbitir mature within

the controlled aress of thr? Pur Baot and Unitienot Asta.

To sa:ve as en Eir CHeN Meziber slcil.-1 FBILKA

aIrcraNt en tilisists of a serestive nature pucaids tbe

controlled smas, 1.0., overtiigats ir 1be jar Bist ard

Southic.Et Aila.

Te hes made witting of certain c'andiatios ectiritles

Insurer to dey purcula to the flight opantlote depertant.

To assist, 15 called 1p0a Irom tiss to tine, In the

preparation di suasitive operations.

a, To be esic vittina of a U.S. Gorinnent ans/01

Amency friterest

1n the event 1t becomes

operationally ancersary.

8-8-С-R-5-T

---

