104-10298-10218) + 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OP JUSTICS
Yee Federal Bureau of Investigation

Copy to: \ mo

Report of: FRANCIS J, O'BRIEN Office: New York, New York

Date: 2/21/62

Field Office Pile No.: 100-9086 Bureau Pile No.: 61-7952 jectiee
‘ if !

»  @Oneae: Secs 0, 080! we al
rt sa I

{[-1 advised that balance in account of R. C.
od Imported Cigars, Inc., with Manufacturers
Eanover Trust Co., a3 of 12/29/61, was $+,137.%.
XY T-1 also stated that checks draw on this
Sccount were for the payment cf salaries-and t
normal business expenses, LEONARD PICKARD, CPA, /
advised that during auditing of tecks of ROBERT

¢, WOOD he has rever observed any funds coming

to WOOD from the National Banx of Cuba or fron
==presa Cubana de Exportacionea of Havana, Cuba.
ARLES ASHMANN, attorney, Miant, Plorida, advised
nat Harric Advertising Agency has been successful
in the initial phase of its suit against the

Czban Government as a favorable decision was handed
down in Dade County Court relative to the seizure i 2

Synopsis:

! Thia docuzent contains neither recommendations nor conclusions i
E of the FSi, It is the property of the FEI andjis losned to ;
your agency; it and ita contents are not to be distributed ate

outside your agenvy. | vi
ae i fi
} gag ene Gek- 2\ FE a
neref from Pros Cxe) ,
Beene eeu gm aS
parerram



NY 27-9086

(ipzeta Cont'd)
= ef Cuban tobacco destined for R.C.W. Supervisor,
Inc. ASHMANN stated that preeeeds of the sale of
the solzed tobagco amounted to $205,000.00 and
1 satisfied tho debts cf the Cuban Government to 7 ff
- Harris Advertising agency. A news item appearing creed
Miami-published Cuban paper "Zl Mundo" on
2, related that Expresa Cubana de Exportaciones
was dissolved on 12/31/61 on tha swsolution passed ty ‘
the Cuban Foreign C ree Minister, STANLEY M, - !
{ Es . QvaIX, attorney, 165 Breadway, NYC, advised his law Hatin
firm represents Three Stara Trading Company which - ean
fi is_suing the Governaent of Cuba for breach contract. Henaes
: 2WAIK stated that papera have been filed in -NY eee
ete : “State Supreme Court to attempt to attach monies yt
collected in the U.S. by ROBERT C, WOOD of R.C.W. eee
Superviser, Inc, Resulta.of examination of ROBERT :
¢. WOOD by Attorney EDWARD J, ENNIS and affidavit
of Attorney ENNIS filed in NY State Supreme Court
set forth, ADOLFO AURIEZMA, Sr. advised on 2/8/62
that WOOD and his firms Had to vacate preiises on
: or derore 5/31/62. AURIE“A stated that he believed Caen
: WOOD was presently in Havana, Cuba, but was not
t absolutely positive, Attorney MONROE ?, BLOCH, NYC, :
advised that there were no new developments in U.S,
District Court to obtain an injunction against wood
and his firms, NY T-3 advised on 2/3/62 that WOOD
left his residence about a week or ten daya +
previously and had not yet returned.

in
i

4
-P- for j
«

we


“by__ SA FRANCIS J, O'BRIEN: chJ Date dictated 1/4/62

FEDERAL BUREAU OP INVESTIGATION

Tate, 1/5/62

Ni Tel advired on January 3, 1952, that the balance
in the account of R, C, Mood tuported Ciyars, Incorporated, as
of December 1, 1951, was $7,482.32. The balance in the account
as of December 29, 1961 was $4,137.96, “

NY T-] advised that during the month of December, 194, .
there were 22 deposits made to this account_and the checks 5
drawn of thiaccount were for the payment of ualaries of the
employees and for the payment of ifgitimate business expenses.

NY T-1 also advised that this account reflected .
that R.C, Wood Imported Cigars, Incorporated, pays $421.89 ‘
for rent.and electricity to Ad auriema Incorporated, 85 Broad. ;
Street, New York City. . f

NY_Y-1 advised that check number 10502 dated
December 8, 1961, was paid to ARCHIBALD BKOMSEN and this cheok — - :
was in the amount o2 $10,000.00. The account also refleeted
that for the month of November, 1961, a check dated December 14,
1961, was sent to Pickard and Friedman for accounting fees for rie
the month of Novenber, 1961. NY T-1 stated that this cheok was yi
endorsed for deposit by LEONARD PICKARD, ‘ 7 7

NY T-] advised that the records from which the
above information was taken are no longer available’ fiestas '

Information furnished by NY T=1 should not be sade :
public except in the usual Proceedings following the iasuance HEE
of a subpoena duces teoun, Be i

2 Uf Tal cdvised that in the event that any of the
information from this account is desired a subpoena should be
directed to RICHARD MC CARTHY, Vice President, Manufacturers
Hanover Trust Company, New York City, EF

on 1/3/62 ap CuRTROEUReRS Raver IRE CS ae
on_1/3/62___at_60 Broadway, NY File # NY 100-9086 - * ae

This dvcument contains neither reoommendations nor conclusions
of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your
Sgenoy; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agenoy. ,

“ae


\
; NY 100-9686 H H
i
: Concerning ARCHTBALD , previously mentioned,
: ey_and_a partner in i
{ 50 seventh Avenue, _ :
H romgen and Gamaarman ean |
i ing with tho United ditt
! : of § nd the tateg Depai
! ‘clative to WOODI!s odJestion to filotregictration:
i Si_Agents_Regiatration Act”
i
i ‘ i
|

“=

;

rautiaees

: LZ ‘
H 7 !
; H
4 ’

| [peeie
: (lists
! :
| y 2 ae i
H
i z a a
{
t2 whiet
i i
u t
: . ,
H 7
i .


FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date__1/9/ée

: : ok pester sf” BioiiaIae
Hy LECNARD PICKARD, CPA,’ Pickard and Fri:
£5 West hend Streot, Mew York ¢: ty, advised cn
1562, "thiat“hio"haw ‘boenthé jaccountant
Inported Cigars Incorporated and R. Cy F,
Incarporated for’ ¢pproximately ono year. PICKARD et2ted
that “ho had"previously done accounting work for aH
WOOD before WOGD wont into partnoruhip with AIZLA
A-AONTENA, “PACKARD stated that when AURIMA and Wor formed
‘a"pertnership, AUKIEMA supplied the finances, aria
@sired his ow accountant.

t PXCKARD adviood that in doing tho accouns ing

prt ¥-
fui’ wore for tho two firms owed’ by ROLER? C, WOOD of £5
ad Stract, Now York City, he has at no time observed
gor ary funda coming to WOOD from Havana, Cuba, either from a
it the National Bank of Cuba or from Emprosa Cubana De yy
‘ ae

Exportaciones. '

PICKARD advioed that in the beginning of 1961,
when ROBERT C. WOOD started his companivs, the firdncing ; i
wag furnished by the Commerical Trading Company of Hew !  / i
York City, PICKARD etated that in approximately tie middle 7

On_1f0/62_ at_55 West 4ena Strect, NYC File $,155-9086 i
ty__84 FRANCIS J, O'BAIIN/abw Tate dictates 1/9/62 i

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions i ‘
of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and ia icaned to f a
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed H
outside your agenoy. ( : : ;

7 : ie



NY 200-9086

Pad
of 1961, the financing for WOOD began to come from Banque
a Intra of Geneva, Switzerland. PICKARD adviged thatvall=
cing for the operations of WOOD are now handled by

ft
Pangue Intra. e
PICKARD furthor stated that ho had never seon
. any contract ofayod by ROBERT C, WOUD ond the Cuban
Govarnment, PICKARD stated that the only information he

had relative to this matter was what WOOD had told him,
PICKARD stated that he, WOOD, was tho sole importer of be
Cuban tobacco and tobacco leaf tothe United States.

eet

ng
en
eel
in an a

iS)
bras
emg yl = pst

Ce ; ell

|

oe

: i

: ee sora . ;
aay ae det wok

i
i


!

PEDZAAL BUREAU OP INVESTIOATION

i Date 1716/62

I’ P-2 aaviess on January 9, 1962, that al
RORERP C. WOOD of Rod Sayerviaor, Inceryoruted, 85 vot
Eroud Street, wew Yor City, continua to maintain an
pgceUnt e% the Trade zara ind Trust Company, 8 West
Keath Strect, new Yoru City, NY THo advised that the
activity in this ace flocts norgal business
operations and ce of J ‘YF, 1962, the balance in rae
tha acccunt of RCa Suyerviscr, Incorporated, waa rasta
$3,011.00, i :

Nf 7-2 advized on January 9, 1962, that he :

has not seen any depcaita in the RCW! Supervisor account 7 i
reflect that money wza received from the Cuban Bete
NL T-2 e¢viced that Gepeaita in this i :
t that Eenque Intra, S.A, of Geneva, : H
Switzerland is acting as the factoring ayent for the i
RCW Supervieor, Incorsorated. NY T-2 advised that

letters of credit are ipzued by Panque Intra to Empresa
Cubana de Bxportaciornes 4zalnat documents for delivery H
of tobacco and tobacco leaf to the United States, 7

NY T-2 advieed that the records from which
the above informtion #22 taken are no longer available,

Ni 7-2 states that the foregoing information
should not te made public except in the usual proceedings
“following tne. lesuance cf a eubpoena duces tecum and that . ‘f
tnie subpoena’ ehould te iseued to MAXWELL HAUSER, Vices ; +H
Prooidert, Trade Bank 2n4 Trust Company, New York City. / eee ;

8 Weat 42th street :
On 1 2 at New Yorx cit: File ¢ NY“ 100-9086
on 19/62__at ew Yor city —s"»"—

by SA FRANCIS J. O'ERIZN: mec Date dictated 1/11/62 i
SS OUERT EN mec LU foi

This docurest contains ceither recommendations nor conclusions
oP the FEI. It is the property of the FEI and 18 loaned to
your agency; it and ite ccrtents are not to be distributed
outside your agency, a f

nite ae oreo een



“January 9, 19)

Peg TE Bhi

phe ee : Ni!
x va x

Mra. AYGLIE HUERTA, Secretary to ADOLFO AURIEMA, SR

Ad Aurtera, L5 Brond Screct, New York,Clty, udviscd on
that Mr, Auriema, Sr., waa currently on a___,

J trip, Mra. HUERTA etated that ADOLPO! can

, n Dade County Court in Minnd, Florida, “t//
on December 29, 1461, réletive to the hearing which was held ~ 1
in Hlaml concerning the seizure of a shipment of tebacco geen
Waleh wad destined to ROPERT C, WOOD, ‘Mra. HUERTA utated that d bt
this shipment of Cuban tobacco wav oetzed by court order by paw
the Harvin Advertsing Agcncy of Miami, Florida, ir, partial ~

Payment for-money-oved Harris Advertising by the Cuban Government

of Primo Minister CASTRO, ate :

Mra. WUZRTA advised on January 9, 1962, that ohe had
@ shert: conversation with Mr, AURIDMA before he went to South Pani
Amorica, and duriag the conversation Mr. AURIEMA stated that e :
it eppeared that the Harriu Advertising Agency would be
successful in thelr seizure of the Cudan todacco, thich was : 5
destined for ROBERT C. WOOD. AURIEMA told Mes. HUERTA that ; H
tho tobacco celzure ty the Harris Advertising Agency had i
already been sold at auction and brought a price of $205,000.00. a

NY 100-9086

South Ameriean buat,
AUnI Ba., teneific

Mr. CHARLES ASHMANN, partner in the law firm of Guilmartin, !
Bartel and Ashmann, 1527 Dupont Building, Miami, Florida,
telephonically advised on January 30, 1962, that the Harris
Advertising Agency of Miami, Florida, whom hia firm fepresents,. ‘
hau been successful in the initial phase of their suit ; *
against the Cuban Government, as they received a favorable
ruling in Dado County Court regarding the ale of tobaccos
which were seized in Tampa, Florida. ASIMANN stated that the : t
tobacco soized in Tampa, Florida, was designated to R, C. W, H
Supervisor, Inc., which was headed by ROBERT C, WOOD, i

ASHMAN stated that the proceeds of the oale of
the tobacco brought a total of $205,000.09, which together with i
other seizures made by tho Harria Advertising Agency has z
completely satigfied the debts incurred by the Cuban Government
with the Harris Advertioing Agency, ASHMANN further advised : i
on. January 30, 1962, that ROBERT C. WOOD had brought suit
in Dade County Dintrict Court to prevent Harria Advertising .
Agency from receiving the proceeds realized from the saledt
the seized tobacco designated to R, C, W. Supervisor:, Inc.

-6- . .

Farr ce. att weaes crstttNs mice Maasheud.a.wWeemen.


NY 100-9086

ASHVAIR] aleo Btated on January 30, 1962, that he
had heard that there wae another built teing brought against -
RCBERT C, WOOD tn New York State Suprar: Court by the
nree Stam.Trading Company, which 1a rezreaented by Attorney Z

‘ARD J, EMUIS of tiew York City. ASIMANN stated that he did f
not know the détails of thio suit, but had been informed that
allegedly the accounts of WOOD in various Now York banks were
to be garnished,

ASIMAIN aleo stated on January. 30, 1962, that the final :
niet + phase of their cace concerning WOD would bo decided in Dade # ‘
' County District court on February 26 or February 28, 1962.

MONROR PERCY BLOCH, Attorney, Brush and Bloch, 27
William Street, Now York City, by lester dated January 39, :
1962, furnished 6 thevmo-fax copy of an artiole which appeared H
th the cuban newspaper, "El Mundo", which Ja pebliched in Miamt, :
Florida. Thin neve clipping 1s dated Sunday, January 14, 1962. i
and 16 captioned “tincex Creates 12 lew Agencies",

This nevo article stated that by resolutions passed
by the Foreign Comerce Minister, Comandante ALBERTO MORA, er
jes were created to handle the functions atte

twelve: commercial age:
formerly handled by reoa Cubana d2 Exportaciones and Empresa
export agency and Cuban import agency). 7 H

do Importaciores (Cuben
H This neve article Stated that the Cuban export and Cuban import.
: agencies were abolighed on December 31, 1961. /
cle stated that one of the twelve new
t agencies created by Conandante ALBERTO MORA was Cubatabeco.
‘i This agency 18 to handle all operations relating tq leaf
tobacco and cut toacco, cigars and cigarettes.

H The records of the New York State Supreme court,

_ County Clerks Office, 60 Centre Street, New York City,
reflects under index number 18825 of 1961 that the Three

Stars Trading Company was represented by EDWARD J, ENNIS,

The news arti

the papers which have
that the Three Stare Trading Company is located in Miant,

‘ Piet ae

Florida,

i Attorney, 165 Broadway, New York city. i piste
The records of the New York State Supreme Court and Hesnie!
been filed by EDWARD J, ENNIS reflect. ies
oo
t



NY¥ 100-9086

and is owned by BEN WILLNER of Plorida and ANGELINA ARIZAS
of New York.

In papera f1led.with the New York State Suprena
Court, the Taree Stara Trading Company otated that a uritten ._
contrect had been stgned on June 25, 1960, with the Covornment
of Cuba guaranteeing that two million pounds of frozen shrimp
or a.minimum ol one millicn pounds of fromen .shrize would

- be.shipped annually to the United States fron Camaguey, Cuta.

Inpapers. filed with New Yori: State Supreme Court the Three.
Stars Trading Corporation charged that the Republic of Cuba
breached ita contract by fetluze and refusal fo,maice any
shipment’ of shrimp under the contract. The dsfersint, Three
Stars Trading Company, “18 ~suing ‘the Republic of Cuba for
breach of contrast and-damages in the amount of $500,000.00.
The ccrplaint woo fited in New Yerie State Suprere Court on
January 17, 1960, The eurmons wes served by publication in
the "New York Law Journal" and Morning Telegraph",

STANLEY M, ZWAIK, Attorney, 165 Broadway, New York
City, advised on February 3, 1962, that he 43 a partner with
EDVARD J, DNNIS, who currently 13 out of tcwn on business,
EWAIK stated that they had been retained to represent the -
Taree Stars Trading Company in its suit egainst the Republic
of Cuba for breach of contract relative to shipment of frozen
shrimp to the Unted States, :

ZWAIK stated they hac made inquiries about money
held in United States banks by the Nepublic of Cuba, but were
unsuccessful and learned that the Republic of Cuba no longer
maintaing accounts in United States banka. ZWAIK stated that
they hava now decided to attempt to attach the monies collected
ty ROBERT C, WOOD of R. C. W. Surervisor, Inc., 85 Broad Street,
New york City, who 1s the sole importer of Cuban tobacco in *
the United States. ZWAIK stated that they are going on the
assumption that the tobacco, wnich WOOD 1a distributing in the
United States is actually the Property of the Cuban Government
aS WOOD receives a five per cent commission from the sale of
all tobacco in the United States, ZWATK advised that they
believe that the money received by WOOD for ‘the sale cf Cuban
tobacco belongs to the Cuban Government, and they hope to have
a favorable decision handed-down in this matter by the New
York State Suprema Court. -

,

- 10 -



advised that pursuant to a court order of
R, dated January 10, 1962,
RODBIRT Cy g y 2) J. ENNIS. —Dusing the
course of the nation, OOD we3 represented by YY
WINESTINE of the law firm of Rabino Boudin.” © ~~

Dararg the examination of RODERT C, WOOD, it was
ascertained WOOD resides at 274 West 19th Street, New
York City, and. t his two corporations, R. C. W. Supervisor,
Inc., end R.C, Wood Inported Cigars, Inc. are located at -
85 Broad Street, low York City, .

Warrants of Attachment were served on WOOD's corporations

on December 29, 1961.

Durirg the examination by Attorney ENNIS, WOOD
stated that + atted in the cigar business in 1950 under
the name of t Pinar del Rlo Cigar Agency, Inc. In
1953 this seation ‘became known a8 AURIEMA-WOOD Imported
Cigars, Inc., until 1t was disolved on December 31, 1960. on
January 1, 1561, WCOD's corporation them became know as
R. C, Wood caycrted Cigars, Inc. une

Coreerning the discussions with individuals in
Havana, WOCD etated that he was intereeted in re-establishing
the Cuban cigar rerket in. the United States, as no“CubaY H
cigars had been imported into the United States from Cuban /
from December, 1365, to May, 1961.. WOOD held discussions in

Havana regarding this matter with HECTOR VILLALCN, an Argentinian,

and with SANTI4G0 RIERA, who was in charge of Consolidado del
Tabaco Torid>, During examination by ENNIS, WOOD stated that
he did not ow wnether or not RIERA was part of. the Cuban
Government or “nether or not Consolidado was part of the

Cuban Goverment.

On February 22, 1961, after many discussions in
Havana, WOCD signed a contract with the Bank of Foreign
Commerce, end he stated that tais contract was signed in:the
office of SANZI45) RIERA, and that his office was the office
of Consolidedo el Tataco Torido, waich 1s located in a new
building in Flaza.Civica, Havana, Cuba. WOOD stated that he

did not know whether this was a government building or not.
:



i

“ N¥ 100-9086

During the examination of WOOD 4t was also pointed
out that in p2 aph eix of WOOD's contract of Feoruary 22,
1961, R..C, “02 Unported Cigava, Inc, 13 called upervisor",
and % 16 notea that orders for clgars from Cuba rust be sent ae
by the Supervisor to the Dank for Exterior Commrce of Cuba,
gad that neceasary letters of credit would run in favor of

"Empresa Cubana de Exportaciones".

WOOD aleo stated during his examination by ENNIS -
that he had beer given power of attorney to settle disputes
with other Anzrican importers for bad ohiprenta and other
legitimate ¢laiz.3 against Cuban cigara factories. WOOD claimed
thatthe capar feetortshad this power in February, 1961, to
2 of attorney to him, and he slao stated that the
cin Cuba today function a3 they did in the past

nd are under a trusteeship. WOOD also cleimed that the
Anterventor or eézinietrator of tho tobacco factorrahas tho
power of attortey for the. factorics. WOOD said he did not know
if the interventor was a gcvernment officiel or not. WOOD
also claimed that he did not mow who put the interventor in
charge of the verious tobacco factorcswhich had been intervened

by the Cuban Government. i

WOOD 2lao stated during his examination by ENNIS
that he receivei nis power.of attorney from elght of mine |
factoriesand that this power of attorney was cigned by |
the interventor of the particular tobacco factoria.It was also
noted that.in a letter dated March 27, 1961, WOOD informed
Mr. DONALD GPZ%, President, Faber, Coe and Gregg, that he,
WOOD, had been entrusted with power of attorney from
“Consolidado de 1a Industria Tabaco Habana”, “

WOOD also advised that he had been entrusted to pay
commissions to pecple in the United States for the baie of
€uban tobaccos sich were cue to them prior to the intervention
of Cuban tobacco factorinduring September, 1960. WOOD stated
that this autnority was given to him orally by the various
interventors, ar4 that payment of commissions/to individuals
in tne United States was made through the law’ firm of RabinowLtz

and Boudin.

- 126

t



NY 100-9086

In connection with the financing of WOOD'S operation,
he stated curin tion by ENNIS that he received
financing .or: 44 Commercial Trading Cor;sration,
1440 Broa New Yorx C2ty, and the Royal Bank of Canada,

' # Montrerl Branch, Montreal, Canada, WOOD stated that due to _
the high interest rate, 42 “45 forced to seek other financing
: and made a trip to.Gereve, Cwitzerland, where he mot A. J,
, H BESTALKOS of Suenco S. &,, “nich 48 a corporation cet up in
Seerreeerrereett - Switzerland to hendle tha rtation and sale of Cuban
cf “tobacco in Burope,. WOOD rtzted that HECTOR VILLALCH was @ -
A one quarter partner in Prenco. WOOD advised that through
BESTAVROS, who wag acquats.te4 with the Binque Intra 3S. A.,
they were able to obtein financing. WOOD claimed that they did
: not heve to put up any colizteval with Banque Intra and letters
of credit were initiated on the anlvency and integrity of
VWOOD'a firms and on the yereonal guaranteo of WOOD 254 BESTAWROS,
plus the guarsntee of a evitract between Erenco and R. C. We
Supervisor, Ino. WOOD stay that Buenco is now a fifty per

cent partner in R. C. W, fapervisor, Ine.

EMAIX stated that Mr. ENNIS was not satisfied with
all the ansvers given by #20D, and the examination of hOOD was
-terminated with the understending that he may’ be re-examined
at a future date agreeaols to both parties,

STANLEY M, ZWAT%-on February 5, 1962, furxished a
copy of the aztidavit of wo. EDYARD J. ENNIS which was fllee -
] : in New York State Suprexe cuurt, New York County, on
4 January 17, 1952. The afficavit of Mr. EDWARD J, ENNIS reads

au follows: Vai

SUPREME COURT OF TH2 STATE OF NEW YORK “‘
"COUNTY OF NEW YORK

ween nan ance nen nen e nnn nnn nen nnn en ene eek

QHRES STARS TRADING COMPANY Jt
; + [Index io. 18825-1961

Plaintitt
: vB~ AgPIDAVIT.
"REPUBLIC OF CUBA
: Defendant
tet sisseeeienavistsavintociaatsenemiapuaaegieonsarmimnnunne ery 1
-B-



\ NY 100-9085

"STATE OF NEW YORK )
“COUNTY OF NEW YORK )
ie 4 “EDWARD J. ENNIS, being duly osorn, deposes and says:/-
tay "l. Tam plaintirrts Attorney in this action and make
this affidavit-4n support of an application for an order
: direoting the service of the ‘suinons upon the defendant ‘by t
7 : : publication pursuant to and in compliance with C.P.A, i :
* 232-a and 232-b. ‘
"2, Nature of this action. - A copy of the sumions here- :
i 1 in dated and issucd November. 3, 1961. and of the ccmplaint
verified January 16, 1962 in a cause of actioa to recover a
: sun of monoy only against the defendant ts annexed hereto and a i
“marked Exhibits A. and B. This 4s an action ugpn a written : : ;
contract between the plaintife and the defendant to racover - '

; damages for defendant's fatiuro and refusal to ship to
: Plaintiff at least 1,000,000 pounds of frozen shrimp anmally i
“

as required by ‘the written contract.
"3. Defendant foreign corporation, - Defendant is a i i
foreign state and the government thereof and as such a : .

foreign public corporation conotituted and existing under the
The affiant has ascertained by

diligent inquiry that defendant, upon the termination of

- We

‘

i

i a

i | : laws of the Republic of Cuba,

‘

i

|

i

!



NY 100-9056

“@iplomatio reiations between the defendant and the Government

of the United States on January 3 1961 and prior to the

: conmencezent of this action, rencved ite diplomatic ana

consular officials and other representatives from the United
States and closed its former Consulate at 625 Madison

- Avenue, New York, N. ¥. After diligent effort by affiant in

socking and failing to find a reprecentative of defendant to
serve in New York plaintiff has Seen unable to find, and will

: be unable to find, any representative of the defendant in

the State of New York upon whom the sunmons could be served

since the commencement of this action,
; _ "4, Zevy of warrant of attachment. - On December 27,
, 1961 the Sheriff of tho City of New York levies the attach=
: i ment by serving cortift ed copies of the second warrant of

\ i attachment in this action dated Secember 22, 1961 on R. ¢.
é !

: Wood Imported Cigars, Ino. and R. aw Bupsrviaor, Ino.,

Now’ York corporations, at their place of business, 85 Broad

Street, New York, N.Y, On Jonusxy 4, 1962 the said two
corporations by their President 3. C,.Wood certified to the
Sheriff that they had 'no property! of the é@efendant, But
by order of this Court dated Jamzsry 10, 1952 the said two

_ corporations were ordered to appear to be ezamined by their ~



Wt 100-9086

‘
"President under oath concerning any proyerty of the de-
fendant in their poscession or any ‘dette cred by them to
tho defendant!, it ;
"5. Dedts of Defendant in New Yor%, - The examination 7 eo:

H of the two corporations by R, C, Wood on January 16, 1962
____@iscloses that at least one of the two corporations, R. C. W.
i : : Bupervisor, Inc., 48 the debtor of the ccfendant for the
I : price and procecda of Cuban cigars exported by defendant
i from Cuba to the United States for sale sere and the proceeds
: : of which have not yet teen paid to the defendant, On his
ae examination Mr. Wood produced a copy of tke contract dated oo ‘
uu February 22, 1961, amended September 25, 1361 which vecites - i 7
that the Minister.of Foreign Commerce of Gdba created
Expresa Cubana Exportaciones to carry out the contract with :
B,C.W, Supervisor, Inc, The Government of Suba, by H
‘intervention! haa taken over and nationalized the business i
of manufacture and exportation of cigars formerly conducted
by private business concerns, The contract provides that i

R.C,W, Supervicor, Inc. 1s dcatgnated 'The Supervisor! of the
distribution and oale of #11 brands de Havena cigars in the
United States. ‘The Supervisor will receive for ita compensa-

SOR etaege nt Bese) Geter a yY


we fae

Wi 200-3086

"tion 5% of the invoice value of cigars ordered directly dy : 1
?he Supervisor and a 2% commission on the invoice value of
cigars not ordered through The Sugervisor, Te contract
further provides that Tho Supervisor will oen a letter of
! credit and will affect paynent by draft dates 59 days. Mr.
Wood testified that Banque Intra, 3 Swiss bax, provided a
: letter of credit under which it egress to pay Espresa for
: cigara shipped 60 dayo efter the este of ths bills of lading.
‘ _ For thio porvice R.C.W. Supervisor, Inc. gave Banque Intra
‘ trade ecoeptance payable ‘an 55 dsys and deposited with Trade
Bonk and Trust Company, 8 ticat 3th Street, Kew York, N.Y. ’
to be paid vhon due to Banque Intza's New Yors correspondent
bank for Banquo Intra's account. Nr. Wood testified that on
‘ December ‘29, 1962 when the second warrant of attachment waa
nd at the present time

served on.R,C,W, Supervisor, Inc.

there io unpaid for cigars shipped to it frpn Cuba over
$100,000 and that there are’ trade scceptances of R.C.W,
Supervisor, Inc, in the possession of Trade Barx% and Trust

Company for this unpaid amount, N>. Wood also testified that H
R.C,W. Supervisor, Inc. did not psy tte! trade acceptances

i
H
3
“4
=
&

when due on a shipment of cigars seized in Tazya, Florida by

-~W7e- : i



NY 100-9026

"a creditor of the Republic of Cuba and sold at auction af
property of the Repuvlic of Cuba because in the absence of
eigara and the proceeds therofrom 2,C,W. Svpervicor, Inc. 7- :
did not have the funds to honor these trade acceptances.

"6, Levy on dghte_and causes “of action in NewYork. =.
C.P.A, 916, as emonded and extenéed, expressly subjects to
attachment any debt or cause of action aricing out of con-
tract due to defendant from any person or corporation upon
whom service may be made in Naw York County and for which
debt or cause of action the defendant could sue in New York.
Te statute expressly provides that tne levy yhich has been
made by the Sheriff on thio case, constitutes a ‘beieure of
all of the rights of the defendant in the debte, or causes

of action due to the doferidant, Adatttedly, by the teatimony

of its President, R. C, Wood, R.C,W, Bupervicor, Inc. has
4,
received shipments of cigars from the defendant for shich the

y
defendant hae not yet been paid and for wnich over $100,000
4s due. R.C.W, Supervisor, Inc. cannot take the position as

purchaser that 1t does not owe the seller for the cigars
simply because it has secured the peymenits ue by arranging -
for a Sviaa Bank outside New York and rot eubject to attach-
ment to issue a 60 day letter of credit for the purchase

- 18 -

ae



NY 100-9086

Ywice to the defendant in exchange for R.C.W. Supervisor, |
tne's agreement to provide the bank with 55 day trade ~
deceptances due five days prior to the time the bank is re-""
’ quired to honor its letter of credit to the-defendsnt. The
Saree low of Now York 4e clear that the Jesuance of the ietter of
fee credit does not affect the-purchaser's contractual obligations ©

to pay the seller, and a contract entirely suparate from the
buyer's obligation. to pey the seller, The ‘issuance of such
letter of credit was obviously not a puyment of (the buyer's) i

debt to (setler) but merely provided a means by which the
Bank of United States v. a

latter could obtain payment * * *.!
Seltzon 333 A.D, 225, .251-NY.S, 63 , 644 (1st Dept); ef. ay

Asbury Park and Ocean Grove Banke v. Naticnal City Panic 35 :
: N.Y¥.S.24 965 (Shientag, 3.). If the bank fails to honor the :

letter of credit the buyer remains Mable for the price of
the goods received from the seller. Therefore a debt from
R.C.W. Supervisor, Inc. to defendant in excess of $100,000 :

presently exists and has been attachea and seized by the :
levy. If R.C.W, Supervisor, Ins. wishes to contend that 1

does not one Cuba for the cigars because df the outstanding
letter of credit it has its remedy by application in the
action or affidavit under C.P,A, S924 for a determination

that there 1s not debt to Cuba subject to attachment.
- 19 - ‘| fereeceer

‘


N¥ 100-9086 \

E 4 ynger the terms of the aforesaid written agreement of

February 22, 1961 with Expresa, the governmental agency of

: \
the Republic of Cuba established by the Hinistry of Foreign

Commerce to handle Cuban exports (reported in the Official

Gazette of the Republic of Cuba, p.8894, March 3, 1962), :

R.C.W, Supervisor, Inc. 49 appointed as ‘The Supervisor’ of the

distribution and sale of all brands of Havana cigars in the

united States for fixed cormissions of 5% and 2% of invoice

prices with @ provision that the Supervisor cannot invoice

the distributors at a higher price than that provided in the
‘rom Eupresa to. R.C.W, Supervisor, Inc. Under the
6 contract 1t may eventually be determined that

Ino. 15 not a purchaser of the cigars,

Anvolces 1:
i terms of thi

R.C.W. Supervisor,
e agent of the defendant Republic of Cuba so

but merely th
that the funds in its hends received from distributors are

Republic of Cuba end not merely & debt

‘ 5 . ‘4: the property of the
: : owed by R.C,¥, Supervisor, Inc. to the Republic of Cuba.
owever, to resolve this legal question

It

41s not now necessary, hi
because 1t 18 aifficient.for purposes of attachnent if thers
to Cuba from R.C, W, Super=

4s a debt or cause of action due

visor, Inc.



NY 100-9086

"7, No prior application hss been made for this reltef.
WNEREPORE, plaintif¢ prays that the order for service

of the suszona by publication issue.

bs /sf EDWARD _J. FREIS.

"Sworn to before me this
17th day of January, 1962,

a

n fof : " : il

NY T-1 on February 8, 1562, advised that a review of
the account maintained by. ROBERT C, WOOD at the Manufacturers

Hanover Trust Company, 60 Broadway, New York City, failed to
H : reflect sny significant information during the month of January,

1962, and tho first daya of February, 1962. :

NY f-1 advised that he had examined deposits made to
thio account, and the deposits fall into two categories:

7 1, Money received from factors;
+ 2. Money received from cigar distributors for
atu) deliveries of cigars by ROBERTS, WOOD.

CARL GROSSMAN, Commercial Trading Corporation, 14to
Broadway, New York City, advised on February 8, 1962, that his
association with R, C, W, Supervisor, Inc. and ROBERT C, WOOD

- ore

i



NY 100-9006

eg it hep in the past. Gnoss! stated that perlod-
feally tavy will edvarice money to WOOD ayainot goods receivable,
GROSCHAM Etaced that WOOD a en advancenent from Comercial
Bpaing in order to meet his normal busineco expenses to pey
customs dutics on cicara aud also-to maintain bis stock.

continue.

RD PICKARD, Certified Public Accountant, Pickard
zt band Strect, Mew York City, advised .on

2, that his relavionchip with Mr. ROGERT C.

WOOD remains tie Same and he continucs to do accounting work
for WOOD und WoCD's corporations. PICKARD stated that he

Aid nut know what effect the recent. United States Government
decision rerarding. prohibiting the impoimition. of Cuban cigars
will G0 to his. association with WOOD. Z

ADOL?O AURIEMA, SR., Ad Auriema, Ino. , 85. Broad
Strect, New Yorit Clty, on February 8, 1962, advised that he had
tostified in Miami, Fiorida, on Lecember 29, 1561, relative to
his Busoctation with WOOD, AURIEMA advinyd that.the hearing
in Miami wae relative to thé recent veisure of tobacco by the
}larria Adverticing Agency 1n order to settle an accowit which

ZO

Frictman, ‘55 ¥
February 8, 19)

_ was owed Harris by the Cuban Governmont.

AUPIEMA advised that on February 8, 1962, ho wrote
a lotter to KOOD advising that WOOD would havo to vacate
premises which he now occupies at 85 Broad Street by May 31, -
1962. AUIMEMA stated that in original Icase signed with WOOD,
May 31; 1962, WOOD would vacate the

it wao agreed thet.on ¥
emapen were rented by AURIEMA and AURIEMA

premises a3 there pr
ton of his owm business, AURIENA stated

needed then for expans:
thet his letter of February 8, 1962, wao answered on February 9
1052, and 1t was etated that R, C. Wood Imported Cigars would

move to another location by May 31, 1962. :

AURIEMA advised that the letter from WOOD'S office
dated February 9, 1962, wae written by CARLOS DUNN and in the
letter 1t waa etated that he was enswering the letter in
the absence from the City of Mr. WOOD, AURIEMA advised that.
he believed that OOD wea. now in’Havana, Cuba, ‘but was not

absolutely positive of it.
VONROE PERCY BIOCH, 27 William Street, New York City,

who 48 representing former Cuban clgar manufacturers.in the
United States District Court relative to the seeking of an

{



sod meceeniereiassia as

NY 200-9086

here haa been no new developnents Sis matter, wt he
‘efpated heing in contact with United States Federal Judge

‘RICK VAY PELT BRYAN 4a the near future.

NY 7-3 advised on February 6, i9¢2, thet ROBFRTIC.
left his reuidence at 274 West Igth Street adout a
or ten daya ago and has not returned as yet. NY 7-3 5
4 that he had no knowledge of the present whereabouts: of
, ner did he have any knowledge of WOOD teing in Havana,
uta, at the present time, :

Concerning Rabinowits and Boudin, ‘mentioned
q previously, the following is noted: i

"Nartindale-Hudbell Law Directory", Simi edition, - .
281, reflects that VICIOR RABINOWITS and LEONAND B. EOUDIN are
gttorneya and formed the firm of Rabinowits and Doudin, 25
Sovad Street, New York City.

whe."Daily Worker" on April 6, 1958, page 25

< eolum 1, contained. an item dated April 2, i056 at Pittsburgh,

Pesnsylvanla, which reflected that VICTOR RAST: TZ was the
-ascorncy who succeseMilly carried the case of STEVE NELSON
' to the Supreme Court of the United States. ‘he article
refiested that NELSON was convicted under the sedition law of
the State of Pennsylvania and that the United States Supreme
Court voided this.and tno other convictions on March 26, 1956.

{ H The Communist Party (CP), USA, has been

eesignated by the Attorney General of the

United States pursuant to Executive Order

10450, .
The "Daily Worker" was an East coast

Communist daily newspaper which suspended
publication January 13, 1958,

The December, 1958, issue of the "Naticnal Guild parent
Lawyers", tho official publication of the New Yorx chapter
of the National Lawyers! Guild (NLQ), Iieted the officers and
nattonal executivo board members of the NIQ, VICTOR
RABINOWITZ was among those listed.

- 3 -

+

pPenae" > SagEEOSm gar eaaree"CnrevaseraePanse


geo

NY 100-9085

The NUG le characterized in the Appencin of thio

voport.

Oh Fetcuary 13, 1959, In’ T-4 advioed trast VICTOR
RADINQUNIZ vas Gg renber of the Rational Committee of the
Exergoncy Civi2 Liberties Committee (ECLC).

The ELC is oharacterizod in the Appesitx of thio
report.

NY T-5 advised on June 21, 1950, that LYONARD B,
POUDIN was a ceonsgalod member of the CP and actively associated
with CP fronts curing the 1940's, .

SMR EERE Te errCraiT EE Malt soe aie cst


UY 100-9986

IVIL ETRE

The "Guide to Subversive Organizations ans
Publications", revised and published os vf Janusry 2, 1957,
prepared and rejeased ty the Ccrnaltte: cn Un-American
Activities, United States House of Representatives, Washington,
D. C., contains the following concerning the Emergency Civil
Liberties Comaittee:

“Enorgenoy Civil Libdertice Comittee

"1, 'To defend tho cases of Cozsranist
laybreakers, fronts have been devised
malcing special appeals in behalf of
civil liberties and reaching out far
beyond the confines of tie Communist
Party itoolf, Among these organizations
are the * * # Energency Civil Liberties
Conatttee, When the Consanict Party
itself 10 under fire thece fronts offer a
bulwark of protection. !

(Internal Sccurity Subcommittes. of the
Senate Judiciary Conmittee, Handbook
for Amoricans, 8. Doc. 117, April 23, .
1956, p. 92.)" a

HTTIRONG  pactenusSa arnt Hy TMT. neat wc ntBNe ar CTL IMPS ary thas sat bite et} rmectoe manele


boas
cot Gutid
Cited asa % et front. \
(Special Co y
activities,
C10 Politic.
Waren &9,, 1%
"2, Cited asa ou et front which "19
the foremost bulwaric or the
Cummmnist Perty, its front organizations,
and coutrolles uiiorg! and which
Ato incept. i
to the lt: i
Party aac
_ a $neluding k i
ttce ©: i
House Report \
2 Lawyers Gull, i
originally ress:
"3, (To defend the vazes of Communist
laubreakers, fronte have been cuvised
1 2 ees in behalf of civil
q out rar beyond the
ist Party itself,
nizutions are the * * *
rere! Gulld, When the
Party itcelf 1a uncer fire "i
%& galuary of protection! Heeeatee Hee
peeeiietveetitey 7 (internal Secerity Subeomaittea of the
= Senate Jucictery Committee, 1: Ie
. for Anericarc, 2. Doc. 117, April 23,
1956, B. 9i.)”



NT OF JL

STATES DEPART

AU OF INVESTIGATION

FEDERAL

Hew York, New York
February 21 , 1962 Srentstieed

bert C. Yood :
Decurity Matter = C5 4
1 Sccurlty - Cuba;

giutration Act - Cuba

“ Reference 15 rade to the report of Special Agent
Francis J, O'Pzlen, cates and captioned as above at New York. |

All. courcez {except any listed below) used in referenced
communication have furriehed reliable information in the past.

iY T-2 are informants who are in a
able information, and NY T-3 16, an
2ct has been insufficient to determine

NY Tel ard
position to furaizeh r:
informant with whom co
his reliability.

Tails docasent contains neither
: ree fons nor conclusions
i of 22, It'is the property
o + of the 75I end 1s loaned to your A

agency; it and ite coatents are
not. to. te distributed. outside
your ezency. i

