Tiodtoeta-i0398 © [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

ISPATCH .

To

Chief, WH Division bed

"PROCESSING ACTION

[MARKED FOR INDEXING.

[NO INDEXING REQUIRED

NFO. aA

‘ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING.

roy N
Chief of Station, Mexico City (A :
yi

MICROFILM

suBuecT

LIEMPTY Project Renewal

[Fetiow recuiees-nerxences

1. Project LIENPTY expires on 30 November 1964. Forwarded herewith and
under separate cover-in split transmission is the Request. for Renewal of

Project LIEMPTY.

2. It 1s requested that Project LIENPTY be renewed for the period
1 December 1964 through 30 November 1965 for the emount of $45,300. Of this
total, $27,675 should be alloted for FY 1965 and $17,625 for FY 1966.

Willard C, CURTIS

wo
Gad

‘ys ped

f RECORDS OFFIcER STAMP

The followin,

Attechment + Stgnoa 2
Left hand side b/w

Right hana side use ** #650 ~ uiie LN
rr

If dest cite

= Feasons and ¢
2 coordi
4 appropriate, 7°?

Distribution: ©

ez C/WHD w/att

£3 Lope
be cbs

s0-6 -7¥/}

‘GROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE

29 October 1964 ~

il

ILE NUMBER

(0-6-7,



PROJECT LIEMPTY

T. CURRENE OBJECTIVES AND RELATED FROJECT ACCOMPLISHMENTS. .
A. | The overall objective of the LIEMPTY project activity is to collect

Cc.

Ll tmm RUE TO

operational. information on the LINERICK installation and personel, as well
as related targets of opportunity, through stationary and mobile photo-
grephic and physical surveillance coverage. Corollary objectives which are
to be fulfilled through the use of the LIEWPTY installations end personnel
are as follows:

1) fo provide operational information pertaining to the daily activities
and movements of LIMERICK personnel, particularly those individuals of
intelligence interest, as well ag information on the LIMERICK physical
facilities and visitors to the premises.

2) To collect operational information pertaining to other targets of
cupertuaity, other official instelistions, and persons of intelligence
interest operating in Mexico, |

3) To provide operational support and other protective services to Station
Personnel and operations as may be deemed necessary.

The above objectives are to be fulfilted through the use of the LIMITED,

, end LICALLA fixed installaticns, the LIENIRAP mobile unit, and the
services of contract agents Raymond H. GERENDE and Oliver G. SCANILING., These
objectives are in consonance with end represent partial fulfillment of the
following sections of the current Related Mission Directive as approved for
Nexico City Station:

Priority: A, Section 1, Subsection e
Priority A, Section 2, Subsection ¢

Throughout the period under’ review, Project LIEMPTY contimed to contribute
directly and significantly to the fulfillment of Station and Headquarters'
requests and requirements for coverage of various targets falling within the
framework of the above cited objectives ana the Related Nission Directive.
Specific examples of LIENPTY progress, accomplishments and contributions by
each project. component are as followst

3) RROD nn

Paroughout the reporting period, itil operational activity ves terminated
equipment evacuated from the LIMITED basehouse on

Ee Poriinss (because of security implications stemming from the

release of the Warren Commission report, see Section II, CHANGES), the

LIMITED installation provided daily photographic coverage and physical

surveillance of the main gate of LIMERICK installation during the afternocn

and early evening hours.” The Station considers the LIMITED photographic

4 Och 19 FY

o~l= ry/p
es COPY



13-00000

2)

3)

h)

a

coverage an essential and veltcrds tool for following the daily activities
of the target personnel and the arrival and departure of visitors, some of
wiicm have been PHPRIMErs. In addition, the LIMITED installation provided
ce fixed: radio dispatch base for the LIEMBRACE team. Because of the
extremély, tight security measures instituted by the local security forces
jin the iimedtate vicinity of the LINERICK installation, stakeouts by the
{unilateral surveillance team are precluded. However, with LIMITED
‘personnel dispatching’ the team from positions removed from the protective
Iseourttynring, onto targets departing the installation, surveillance
coverage 1s made posd. ble. t

Lone ieee

‘The LILYRIC installation also provided photographic ‘and fixed visual sur
Yadllanoe ofthe from of the Lijmntat installation Uuroushouk the period
under review, during the morning and early afternoon hours. This photo-
grephic coverage and the written logs of the movement of LIMERICK
personnel prepared by LILYRIC personnel, complements the LIMITED coverage
used by the Station in ite KUDESK operations against the LIMERICK target
and has. been judged.to be of equal quality and value to the LINITED
coverage.

LICALLA

The LICALLA installation contimed to provide coverage of the back of

‘the LIMERICK installation, the garden, and patio.area where many of the -
personnel and their families congregate. This coverage gives the Station
its real insight into the LIMERICK target and provides a large’ part of the
information on which the Station bases its tdentification of LINERICK
staffers, their rank end positions, the staffing estimates, and the
intelligence comections of the’ various officers. In addition some
information. of LAURICIE interest is provided by LICALLA (see paragraph 2, -
section f of HMMA~24235 dated 2'September 1964 for further details).

‘LIENEUP

A greatly increased use of the LIENTRAP unit vas evidenced throughout
the period under review. . This asset was employed extensively for photo-
graphic coverage of PCM Headquarters, the PCM Women's Congress, the homes
of PCM members and the residences of foreign Commnist exiles in Mexico.
Much of this coverage was in support of past or planned recruitment
attempts and was needed to provide identifications of other local or
visiting Commnists..:. Specifically LIENIRAP coverage assisted in the

‘fication and the verification of the eddress and contacts of ~~
He prior to the Station's successful recruitment of this high-
‘evel PCM member. The section primarily responsible for the Station's
anti-PCM activity has classified the LIENTRAP coverage as e most
"valuable" part of their effort.



13-00000

5) PHOTO COVERAGE - GENERAL

ae?
During the 9 month period from 1: Noveuber,to 1 August 1964, ‘the LIEMPTY
project’ produced approximately 770 rolls of operational still photographs,
of which 595 rolls were directly concerned with the LIMERICK target. This
coverage, linked with the daily logs kept by the basehouse keepers of the
activities of the LIMERICK personnel, while continually contributing to
‘the Station's regular CE effort, has been particularly effective during
crisis times. such as the GPFLOOR investigations, While the photographic
coverage is used almost exclusively for Station operations in the LIMERICK
area, LIENPIY has also provided direct support to other operations such as
providing verification of a double-agent's visits to the LIMERICK
installation...

6) Oliver G., SCANTEING

During the period 1 December 1963 through 50 August 1964, long-term Station
asset, Oliver G. SCANILING (ps) contimed as the cutout to the LINITED
dasehouse, and uade his regular contribution as the alternate contact of
LICASA-1 in this sensitive LAURICLE operation, SCANILING also performed
Tmmerous pretext investigations, serviced actommodation addresses, and
prepared forusl casing reports. Of particular significance were
SCANTLING's regular checks of the accoumodation eddress used in the
itive (ARINPULSE operation, the thorough investigation of a former

Jagent of interest to KUBARK, and detailed casings of the Chinese

Fair. (See also Section VI, PLANS, for SCANTLING's future

operational assignment).

7) Raymond H. GERENDE

During the period under review, GERENDE continued in his assignment as
‘the Station cutout to the LILYRIC and LICALLA basehouses, the LIENIRAP
unit and as the processor of the raw photographic take, and with the
assistance of LIEMPIY-10, contimed to provide and service the majority
of the accommodation addresses used by the Station. The contributions
made principally by GERENDE (and to a limited extent by SCANILING) to the
“Sensitive -AMROD operation can accurately be described as unique and
essential to the success of that operation, Although this activity is
necessarily a Headquarters directed effort, the local contritutions of
GERENDE end SCANILING are integral ingredients of that operation.

D. It will de noted from the above samples of LIEMPIY contributions to the

Station's progress towards fulfillment of the pertinent sections of the
“Related Mission: Directive, that: notwithstanding their demonstrable value
end importance, these contributions actually represent only a portion of
the activity directed towards the fulfillment of each objective. Therefore,

“.eny precise measurement of project progress is precluded. However, based
on the performance and overall contributions of the LIEVPTY project during
the past project year, the Station concludes that this project is essential
to the fulfillment of the Related Mission Directive and mst be contimed
during the forthcoming project year.

SEE a

ze



13-00000

Ti. CHANGES

A) On 2h September 1964, the Station was informed by Headquarters that a
LIEWPTY project photograph which was one of several supplied to the Warren
Commission in Novenber 1965, would be published in that Commission's formal
overt report. Since LIMERICK officials would undoubtedly be able to
recognize the individual in the photographs as a visitor to their
installation and with a view towards the attendant possible security problems,
the LIMEFED, LILYRIC, and LICALLA operations were suspended on 26 and 27
Septeuber and all photographic and.other compromising equipment was evacuated
from these basehouses. All basehouse personnel were briefed in general on the
situation and specifically on how to cope with any possible inquiries from
Goverment officials or LIMERICK inspired or prompted newsmen, Complete
Smargency commmications systems wére arranged for all basehouse personnel,
Raymond. H. GERENDE and Oliver G, SCANILING. Upon receipt by the Station of a
copy of the photograph, “it.was determined that the LIMITED basehouse had
Provided the photograph in question. This consideration, Linked with further
enalysis of the limitations upon any counteractions available to LIMERICK

” officials, allowed the Station to re-activate the LILYRIC. and LICALLA bases
on a phased basis in early October 1964, However, because LIMITED was the
originator of the to-be-published photograph and due to the age and deterio-
rated condition of the LIMITED property (owned by KUBARK), Station Mexico
City did not reactivate LIMITED and presented to Headquarters a plan for the
demolition of the present LINITED structure with recommendations for the
construction of a new building complex. (See MEXI 1307 dated 20 October 1964
for additional details),

B) In accordance with paragraph 2 of HMMW-12297 dated 28 Jamiary 1964, the
value and productivity of all essets under Project LIEMPTY was closely
reviewed against the necessary security and efficiency requirements. It was
determined that LIEMPTY-12 and LIEMPIY-8 could be terminated without causing
intolerable gaps in operational coverage or an unacceptable decrease in
efficiency, Both LIEMPTY-12 and LIEMPTY-8 were terminated on 30 June 196k;
at the same time, in keeping with the ODYOKE econouy program, a further effort
was wade to reduce the costs of this project by placing LIENPTY-19 on an
hourly rate for work performed for the Station.

C). .On 30 Septeuber 1964, the field Case Officer responsibility for Project
LIENPTY was transferred from Jeremy L. NIARCOS to Cornelius L. PEUVION;
however, the analysis of the finished take from the photographic basehouses
continues to be performed by Robert. B.. RIGGS,

TIT, . ERFEOMIVENESS | .

The effectiveness of the LIEPTY gogeet ‘imist ‘he Judged ‘on the basis of the
reliable daily coverage provided rapidly and securely for the Station and
Ne

other operations provided by: Raymond H. GERENDE and Oliver G.
r (See Section I, Subsection C for specific examples of this effectiveness).



13-00000

lv.

ve

In the opinion of Station officers who use the LIEMPIY photographic product or
receive LIENPTY operational support,’ this project has responded most satisfactorily
to the needs and requirements.

PROBLEMS :

A) The only major operaticnal/security problemwhich confronted project LIENPTY
during the period under review were the security implications stemming from the
release of the overt Warren Comission report. (See paragraph II, Section A).
The precise damage occasioned locally by the report, cannot be measured until
the mid-November release of the report ennex containing the actual LIMITED
Photograph. During the interim period, the emergency. contact systems are
being maintained in readiness, the cover stories of. all personnel involved
have been reviewed and strengthened, and no undue concern has been displayed
by any of the project personnel. | Potential Station countermeasures to the
possible LIMERICK reaction to the publication of the subject photograph were
Gatlined in MEXI-1018 dated 25 Septeuber 1961,

B) No unusual personnel probleus have ariden and the overall performance of all
agents comected with this project has been satisfactory.

Not applicable. i
PLANS ‘ 7

A) ‘The future of the LINITED basehouse, property and personnel will be determined
within the near future. (See Section 2, subsection a).Station has acquired
another apartment on a temporary basis in the LILYRIC complex to replace the
loss of LIMITED coverage and it will be activated after the acquisition end
clearance of basehouse keepers.

B) No basic changes are contemplated in either the administration or operation
of the LICALLA or LILYRIC bases. Station will again initiate motion picture
coverage of selected LIMERICK personnel engaged in conversation in the
garden srea in an attempt to obtain film which will lend itself to lipreading
by Headquarters! specialists.

¢) The Station Plans to maintain the; increased level of LIENTRAP operational.
activity, with this asset being targetted in the near future against the
Partido Popular Socialista (PPS) in support of the Station's new PPS
Penetration program.  _

D). Effective on 1 September 1964,. Raymond H. GERENDE assumed the cutout role
and.responsibility for the LIMITED basehouse in addition to his other
operational duties outlined: in Section I, No other basic operational or

administrative changes are planned for GERENDE for the ensuing pertod.

2) ‘The reacval of Oliver 0. SCANILTNG as the cutout to the LIMITED baschouse
ves a result of the recent death of his wife, his pending trip to fURpauNeS)
— “~~ and the Station's desire to give
more operational Fesponsibility to Raymond H, GEMENDE. After SCANILING's



~6-

return from Japan, he will assume operational duties and responsibilities in
an activity not connected with Project LIEMPIY. Therefore, salary and
operational expenses for SCANTLING are programmed for six months only.

F) Other than presented above, Mexico City Station plans no other significant
project changes since it is felt. that this project 1s now operating at its
optimm size. Justification for the retention of three basehouses was
presented in detail in HMMA~23343 (which is available at Headquarters).
Efforts will. be contimed, however, to refine and better utilize the existing
project organization and.assets. |

. b
VII... Costs : (ALL figures are dollars, U. 3.)

A) Past Project Year = Station records indicate that Project LIEMPTY expended
$55,952.78 during the period 1 December 1963 through 30 September 1964,
Approximately $9,000 will be expended during the remainder of the present
project year, It is estiuated that approximately 20 hours of case officer
time per week is necessary to satisfactorily fulfill the operational,
administrative and analytical requirements of this project. Bi-weekly
accoutings with receipts and/or certifications are subuitted by Raymond H.
GERENDE and Oliver G. SCANFLING to the Station Finance Officer, via the
case officer for all Project LIEMPTY expenditures.

3B) Ensuing Project Year - Project LIEMPTY was programmed for $60,000 for the
forthcoming project year. Due to the Station's economy measures, however,
only $45,300.is requested for the ensuing year. Of this amount, $27,675 will
‘be expended in FY 1965 and $17,625 in FY 1966, A detailed breakdown of
‘olLows 3

Selartes (including Christwes boms) X65 EE
Raymond H, GERENDE $6,500
Oliver G. SCANILING for 6 months 3,260
LInery-h (paato 1s) 2, 00 /
mers (photo leb)assistent).,
LIENPTY-6 {iiss basehouse keeper) 37700.
LIEVPTY-7 (LIMITED assistant)
LIEMPTY28 Terminated 1 July 196%
LIEMPTY-9 (nacatza ‘basehouse keeper) 3,600
LIEMPTY-10 (LIENTRAP operator) 4,00
eg 11 (LIEVERAP assistant) 2,500
LIBPry-12 Terminated 1 July 1964
LIEMPTY-15 (LILYRIC basehouse keeper) 2,000
‘LIEMPTY-14 {amar assistant) 2,000
LIEMPTY-19 (Typist) 2,000
Temporary basehouse keeper 2,000
~ LIEWPTY-24 (LICALLA assistant) | no salary



13-00000

: FY 65 FY 66

Vehicle Maintenance
MV 2606, 2284, 2279 ; i 000

Real Estate (rent, utilities) |

LIMITED © $3,300
LILYRIC 1,500
LICALLA i 1,600
Photo sb oe 200.
| W600 5,850 150
. E \
Maintenance. end replacement of 4 $ 500

Proto: oquipmenss Film purchase

$ 500 5 375 $15
Operational Expense $ 840
To

PO Box rental; vehicle rental
; . 3 Fo ¥ 500
pemunes —
‘TOTAL $45,300 $7,675 | 7,625
Os

(GERENDE's Christmas borms, the temporary basehouse keepers' salaries, and the
photo lab rent, are included in Project LIEMPTY for the first tine).

‘VIL, EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

Energency commmication plans for Oliver G. SCANTLING and Raymond H, GERENDE
are on file in the Station and at Headquarters (See HMMA-15982 and HMMA-15981 of
23 November 1960). In early 1964, a review was hold for the active agents in
this project of their recontact instructions and verbal recognition signals. In
addition the emergency contact plans for the LIMITED, LILYRIC and LICALLA base-
house keepers were sapended, ant refined, during the “criais" outlined in para-
graph Ti, Section Ay.

Ut 1 Hh NB —:

