# 104-10074-10036

## Page 1

1104-10074-10036

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO:

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

ry i copy of thie toro)

PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATE BLANK

CIZOPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

CHIEF INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION:

OFFICE OF SECURITY

CHIEFS PERSONNEL SECURITY. DIVISION. OFFICE OF SECURITY

SUBJECT:

ARITA VALANIA

CRYPTONYNS PSEUDONYMNAKA

-OR

8. Famary 1965

I SAIOS

76h6

GIVOA PILE NO:

R1 200 LENO.

201-767109

SO FILE NO.

TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL

'APPROVAL

SECURITY APPROVAL

COVERT: SECURITY:

CONTRACT: TYPE A

SPECIFIC AREA OFA USE:

PROP

COVI

SPECIAL noUIRY (SO field: inves!

CONTRACT TYPE: B

FULL DETAILS: OF:

ed 18 raguested for contacts assease and possible nso an en ta aseat

In Loadquartors 8/l progron.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Net Repreduce

YES: SA

4INVEST IGATION AND COVER

U.95

GOVERNMENT:

INTEREST MAY BE SHORN DURINO INVESTIGATIONI

SHOTN DURING INVESTIGATION?.

UXS.

GOVERNNENT INTERESTIN

HINT.

IS SUBJECT AWARE

OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM

E. INDICATE ANY

LINITATIONS ON COVERAGES IN THE

STIGATION OF SUBJECT

SUEG

•COVER PRETENT- TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PEASONAL INVESTICATION OF

SUBJECY®

NO:

Mons

NO

don)

SIGNA

00 Aem

HS-PRO AND GREEN LIST:

•STATUS

CHED

DIVISION:

TRA

EXTENSIO.

87646

SECRET

DEROGATORY:

CHED

¡FORMATIOI

BRANCH CHIE

158010

DEROGATORY: A1

DEROGATORY MAI

10589

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

RRO PART 3

ДPOB8

ALMIZENS

RESIDENCES

FATHERS

HeRETO ECHIVARRIA Veldrl.

3 Beptember 1931, delibenloa, Cangusy, Cuba

cuban

2TOL 1. Sedate, Gidease, Dlimle

Pretently esplegad by Calogo Craanit Anthalty

Porarly apleges an a payroll clors at a refinery

La Catbelgus, Cabao Bubjeet 108t Gaba 6 July 1960.

EvelLo BCHEVARFIA Martin (201-767120)

SECRET

201 - 767401

AARO

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

•SUBJECT TYPE NAME IN ROMAN LETTERS - SURMAME IN UPPER CASE)

2. ALIASES. VARIANT SPELLING. CTC NUMBERS. ETC.

201-761097

CE/DA

3: DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH:

3: Septanhar 1931, detbontea, Camagney, Cuba

WE CITIZENSHIP

PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION

ployed by Chleago Transit Authority

RES: 2702 1. Redste, Chicago, linole

6 OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

REQUEST FOR GREEN LIST

NAME CHECK Nº 158449

DATE 8 Zebruary 1965

TO

CHIEF, FI/D

ORIGINATING OFFICER

•NAME

O11via 4o WilMean

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

ROOM, BÜI LOING

EXTENSION

2516

130 TYPE OF REQUEST (CHECK ONE)

FIRST TIME SUBMITTED

ADDITIONAL DATA

RECHECK FOR CURRENT

145

INTEREST IN SUBJECT (CHECK ONE)

ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

• OTHER

•LOCATION

DATES

•PAST INCLUDING INCLUDING MILITARY SERVICE

Prios to Subjeat's departure be was

eap loyed

so a paysoll clerk in e rafinery in Calbaiguan, Cubea

he left Cuba & July 1960)

B. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION ADD EXTRA SHEETS WHEN NEEDED

98 DESCRIPTION

• HEIGHT.

WEIGHT

(EYES)

(HA (R)

10 SPOUSE IF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)

113 OTHER MENBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY AND ASSOCIÄTES

(RACE)

FEB 16

(OTHER)

12.39 PM P65.

Evelto BCARVARRTA Martin (fether)

INFORMATION REQUIRED DOF FELL GIET ALQUIREMENTS) TERKS SUCH AS "DEROGATORY MAY RESULT SEARCH THAT 0O5,

ALL, PERIT HENS IUPORMATION

DESTROY AFTER USE

INSTRUCTIONS:

car 501 v

10591

INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY:

SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D.

SEE CSI 10-7

SECRET

201-767409

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

TO:

Olivia A

11111amg

16 Feb. 1965

DATE::

FROM:

B.

D.

SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/D BIOGRAPHIC FILES:

A MEMORANDUM IS ATTÄCHED HERETO.

WITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, FI/D IS UNABLE TO

DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

I/D HAS NO NURSIX INFORMATION ON SUBJECT. IF INFORMATION ABOUT THE

SUBJECT APPEARS AT A LATER DATE IT WILL BE REPORTED TO YOU AS IT BECOMES

AVAILABLE.

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT., OF THE FOLLOWING:

Слан

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION

NOTICE COMPLETED. SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/D:

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/D THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO

LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING HAME CHECK. PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FI/D'S

FACILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS MOT REQUIRED.

TO:

FROM:

FU/D

DATE:

NAME

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

ROOM, BUILDING

EXTENSION

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECREV

10592

MICROFICHE

REPRA

MIANS

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

9 rebruary 1965

SUBJECTS:

ROMeTO ECHEVARRIA Val dvia

/201-767409

Byel to ECHEVARRIA Martin

201-767410

Adolto ARRATE, Cumerma

201-767405

Jorge ARRATS Cunorma

201-767405

At ber to

D. Nina

201-767403

Ricardo BUstres

201-767$01

There are notiays Station traceo on bubierts

per VEGA 19509, dated 25 Japussy 1965.

obe Muste

for

John L.

Fart

0

Doputy Calos, MaLaty

Distribution:

Ord8. & 71

Addresses

Đ/SA/103

Bach 201 File

105%3

201-767409

MIGROROLE SEPROOMETISNS

---

## Page 6

14-00000

MEHORANDUM FOR: Chief

WH/SA/IOs - 0. A. Willtans

SECRET

PROVISIORAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

03

MUMBER

201 - 767409

BUBJECT

ECHEVARRIA Valduse, Homero

REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated

8 February 1965

cra

A Provisional Operational Approval ls Sranted for the use of this Subject

as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same

authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority

granted in an Operetional Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It 1s

based, however, only on preliminary file checke and investigation and 1s sub-

ject to a further final revlew when all investigation is completed.

To process the Operational Approvel, full information (completed PRQ

Parts I and II must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six

(6) months fron this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all

Investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Perts 1

and IT. Cancellation must be requested it use of Subject by interested D1-

vistons ceases:

APPROVAL

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL, AND SUPPORT DIVISION

FORM 125

SECRET

DATE

25 February 1965

201-767409

10594

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

DATE 26 August 1955 a1a

MEMORANDUN FOR: LE/C/ER/CA

ATTENTION:

011716 A. t1111cm

CH 4201-767409

The rule on

a 15 cancelled

and closed in cI/o for the folloving reason:

Fallure to submit PRQ-11 as required under CSI No

10-5 or to

indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operati

use of Subject.

301-167408

rion to any ruture use of subject

It will be necessary to furnish

a ney approval request (Form #772) to ci/QA

/8/ Edward P. Brow

CHIEF, CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL, AND SUPPORT DIVISION

0595

•89

# 69141

201-26>409

MICROFICHE

PEPRODUCTIONS

DESTROY

NETER USE

---

## Page 8

14-00000

FORM 0. 328 A REV.

CHI- CB

PORI

НОСКАРНІ

BuDGiT BURKAY MO

UNITED.STATES DEPARTMENT OF. JUSTICE

IIFORMATION

Immigration and naturalization Service

VANILY NAMI

(MIDDLE NAME!

DIATHDATE ( MO.DA

ECHEVATRIA Valaivia, Momoro Sanuel

NATIO

AUR, 23, 1967 /16/1

ALIEN

RIUISTEATION NO

Drunel/3/31

duba

A12 236 480

ALL'OTHER MAHRE UBED

CITY AND COUNTRY OF DIRTH

BOCIAL BACURITY, NO.

Jatibonico, Cuba

"391 L4 5930

NAME

FIRST MAME

¡ DATR; CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTA (IF KHORN): CITY AND COUNTAY OF RESIDENCE

ECHEVARRIA,

Evelio.

3/21/05 Colon,

Chicago, Illinois

VALDIVIA, Ofelia

21/1/06 Arroyo Elanco, Cuba

Chicago,

IlLnole

MONE,: 80 BTATE) FÄMILY

COUNTAY CT DIRTI

DATE OF MARI

GIVE MAIDEN MAI

Santa Clara,

ABB PLACE OP MARRIAOE

Sanoti Spirity

CASTELLANO

Terest ta def 1. -3/79/36

Cuba 14/11/56

OUSES: 40:

DATE 8 PL

CE OF MARRIADE

DATE

CheS

PPLICANTS RESIDENCE LAST FIVE YEARS. LIST PRESENT ADDRESS FIRST. E

STREET AND NUMDEA

CITY

PROVINCE OR STATE PO COUNTRY

2701 W. ledate

catcage, 111.

2555 No Mauso

I1I.

FROM." MONTH

Septe

BO. YEAR

2952

TOr: MONTH

SOGYEAR

PREACHT TIME!

Septo usan

25002

APPLICANT'S EMPLOYMENT LAST FIVE YEARS. KIP NONE, SO STATE) LIST PRESCIT LPLOYENT FIRST.

-Ness Den

30g;

cut treet

maco Yerb, Cheers, 324

MÜNTH.

Cover

250-221000

Hugo

35

9680

PRESCHT TIME

deta

1966

LAST FORLION RESICENCE OF MORE THAM ONE VEAR: 117 NOT BHOMH ABOI

Espa del Moglo, Cuban

SHOWN

. COURTRY.

THIO FOR I SUDMITTER IN CONNESTION WITH APPLIÇATION FOR:

I NATURALIZATION I ASJUSTMENT OF GTATUS OTHER LACIST

456

24 AUG 105/00

ACO

8/23/67

Prepared byINS

nh

РИМЛЕТІВВЇ ОСЕЛЬ:

FOR PROWINGST IND WILLFULLY SADDENE

DA CONCIALNO A HATERIAL FIES

Pera phow cael & INS wash. -

levice neons.

тису же мил сле еснт

CROFIC

REn

BODUCTIONS

• DESTROY

ATEN USE

pose no concerning subject, you are referred to the U.S. Secret service reference:

C0-2-34,030, Springfield, Ill, dated b Dec.1963, Synopsiss This report concerna vebtole

and driver a Liconse checke on euspecta Echevaryla and kosley; CO-2-34,030, Birmingham,

Alabama dated 5 Dec. 1965, Synopsie: Honer So Echevarrla resided in Anniston, Ale.

APPROX SIX months and was alleged to t

bo unewployed furing that times and CO-2-31, 030

Jackson, Michigan dated 5 Deco igos, Synopsis, Laroenforcement agencies have no record

of suspect Honer S. Echevarsia.

10596

---

