# 104-10175-10020

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10175-10020

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

FOrSESSING

15:5,16

Chief of Statics, Mardoo City

•STo

FFSH

Hief

cottitio

der

CS$ 42:13

N: 2:68 8: 8: 21, 293

Micristice, cala

....+

wife, su

Chief, WI DITISION

N-7411

SUBJECT

• JLIP/Assat Travelling in listico

ICTICA REQUIRED REFERENCE

1. WTF1S, 1, a Headsuarters contact on Cuban ratters, departod on 2o kay 1961,

for Mesaco C1!7, where she is plening to renaln until sonetime in August.

belleved that zabject mey be of sone use to the Station during her stay in Mer. co..

ANURASA, foruer publle reiationa officer and tranalator in-the cifica of Juan OnTA

oriovs, ExestITo SecretEry to Fidel CASTRO, was recruitod in labana in Juso 1960.

It la recoguised that her josition vitain the C'STO herercry, her flueacy 1n

pasiah, and her soility 's sove freely in certain circles, tave ser access to

information mira vould be of valuo to XUPArk.

She 18 presently under Oral Agree-

nont to turbid and 18 pald as a "spot cash" basis.

2. She was fluttered in June 1X0, under less than satisfactory

conditions,

and since the results vere inconclusive, 1t las decided to have ser return to the

States for reassensent et ear first opporturity.

In late Septezber 1960, A UPAS/1

was able to leave Cuba uier pretent of requirina zodical treatent, and las

reflattored Est reassassed.

Under these conditions it was deterined that subject

am?" la annamed Malount for the Palimrina Mounintat

Connections vita Soviet Satellite Intelligenco Services.

b.

Connections vá ta Cuban Intelligence Serrices.

Fevealing her association with nenbers of AUßAil to members of tha

Cabar Goverment of Intaliigezue services.

Enosesial actiritles..

Memberahip in the Coomuniet Party.

Gemunist Isdostrination.

h..

lol1beretelyatteapting.to.hide.infmeat1cn

....

1à Cousitting ary sarious, undotectoa crime.

While A UPAS/1 voill appour to be a valnable asset based on the abova

information, tsure are certain other fundamental aspects which rust: be taxon Into

conticeratim in iealing sith her.

During her colioge yours, Sabjeci's cother

dod tragicaliy, and her father, uhes she adores, renarried a baaaa sace AlPASa

tharoughly delikes. Because of this mairlage, fabject quit the untyers y s8/l

DATE TIDED

Attachments?

1.

List o! Individuals to be contacted

True rese pouch - Par-A/s/aniTo-

3. Contact Instructions; U/S/C

Distrigation:

2 - Mesaco GIty

6 June 1961

DISFATCH STROL AND NUMEER

=A'E DISFRICHEO

i96 13

INMM. 9E00

MADA GATTIPS FILE MISER

1 - WH/W/CI

- WH/3/Moxi/Chrono

1 - Subjoct

SECRET

NEGLED + 307-2943-

DEUSANTIING

Wil/3/Mesd0o CoL. Sussos-VIdela by C/MR/3Merd

COOROINATING

TEXT

2555

DATE

WH/L/CI

CAH

DAlE

ECHU

5 60

{=7)

53 USE FOR O-S ESITION REMACIS A MAN:DO PACHNAI EE USDA

no 103

SAYS

DISPATCH

1920

---

## Page 2

4-00000

CONTINURTION OF

DISPATCH

SECRETA

WIZE 8261-9800

Olabora and tent to sendico.

thile at the liarbite. Mexico, she set and fell

In love vita

son of e vell-tado Coloni1:s fanily.

T's ranance developed

into an affair which toot her frca Medico to insador to la-crola, bect to Meddoo,

and finally to cuba. Jerne tis tizo, hUPh/l olther lived 1B the Colorbian:

jugles bere her. parzone and his trin brother attested i. reira rariJurni,

or travelled with thez attempting to markot 14. Ils epiacio ended viia the failure

of the enterprise, la-bael's addiction to dove and sabsequent loss of his i 12à.

Moanuhile, A UTAS/1 kad contractad a serioue trocie blosd desaso, and relumed-to

tho United States.. Is: carly 1959, A UPAS/1 endeavored to interest the cuban

Ministry of Health in a project on

coatrol of drug eddiction bused on ber civeri

ences viti her paranour and hia arther.

Upos ber return to tro United States,

she beces Iavolved with the 26th of July Movesent In New lock CIty, and also

absisted.tbo Cubor U. 1. Mission in arus cli,-lag and otber stall jeba.

of bes interset la tha Cuban Perolimon, Abris/1 sas levited by Cella Saicur,

ascretary to Pidol CiTRO, to go to Caba and assist her. In September 1959»

ANUAPS/1 went to Caba there nse vorked with sichel and trassiated aridclea

CASTRO speechos, In addition to her translating, MAUPAS/I serves as a public

ralations officer, arranging introductiocs for Eagliab sportra porsons viaiting

the Prime Hiriator's citico.

In this capacily abe was ls contact sita mmercas

Cuban Goverarent officials.

4o is 11l1 be seen frou hor personal lastary statemest (copy modor separato.

cover), AiUPAs/1, has done & mubor of thinga - a sumary ci her actoi enploment

shows as explospent patton of lois lastina Inca a lou vicis to soveral montia.

respite, or porhaps recause ai, her inability io "stay jat" Suject tan a vida

end varied graip of segasinterces, and produces a valime a inication vilei, 18

carafully sitor, results in nuch toat 1s uneral end provides immercus crorationai

leads.

las: your she was closel; associated vich the luben louta Moverent end!

assisted in. ogun121ne tho strner yoath craps in Cabe. Dutiar hor. receat trio to

Venosole unero she revieved her branalation ef The Saark and line Sardinail ulti

the author, ex-prestient of Cuntemala AREVA:O, M.UFAS/1 interviewed studento en

hor on iritative to record thai: viens en aurant problers.

Her list of scruti

tancos runs the genot fisa collogo rafessore end rolitical figures to tarí delmers

.and prostitatas, and there appearo-to: bo no. ino drain-boccare of raco, creed,

color, relizan or palitical ideology.

becording to the ascesments rade of Lubject, 1t.Is belleved. that becanes.

of emotional vacillation and potential misceptibility to leltist indocticate,

she should ba handled bitz caution.

She can le provlard tits general requirstents

but, should be kopt unatting of nodus operandi.

Subioct routes drecilou and

guidance to lasuro speciflo infonistloa; fallure resulta in receipt ai varled uni

alten intaresting intonator, but not sacossarily thet mica 15 cartred.

1s an individual tho needo a

"Cruso" ho argerently neede scretline la sonsane

sho can crusade : cr.

In the past it his-tees & paranour, sad the Cuban Fevolitico;

at the presant tiho it ls assistiny her country to combat tbe apread el Couries;

tonorTos it could bo Coumin Itself. It 1s taerotore nocessary to lesp bar

cause (perbars unsittingly) that contact wità sad direction of her, aborld not reveal

cadas operendi of a too stasitiva nataro.

Handled with the above restr 12028 19

Mind, sabjoct can morido a malin of inforsatico to data Subject 1ss Toon trii

for when abo in working although she stronily suspects tUlAFI; abe has given no

Brainine or sa syrtes; at nost, she would be -ble to descrivo cossibly a hall'

dozen persons she his set under alira. It Is thereforo carpastri that sha ba. elon

:8peolf1o rojuirer.oots sb1ch she can fulfill la noral circiss, a ubica sho con

aoquire fros contacta sno makes through nortal chunnols.

Tas paychiatrist luther

sugtosto turt she will probably rospond to diction by a localo caro officer more

offootively tban to a Fuglo,

JinCO SnO 18 ApPArITiLY UNdOT BCIO. EtIALI tO. GOSUrO

horself at bor attractivenass 1n hor associatioas vito sena.

G. Contact Insimicticas tro loing forvaried under asparsio corr. If the Statlon

dosa desira to contict in tria/), and levy requireuenta on Der, 1t 18 raquested that

arything sid't she ray want to forard to Readqunrters also to handled through tha

Station eventbourh

sho also has en addrose in lew lork through which she contactr bar

prosent Casa aficer.

Attached also 19 9 I1st as 1ad1v1tuals subject Intends to contact milo 10

Do statlon has lafmation on post of the persons listed.

Maxico.

т014

105 530

EID CF DISPATCH

5129 91.44 AtE: 9129

You i de del stickEr!

---

