# 104-10413-10266

## Page 1

nary

1104-10413-10266

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OSPATCH

Chlef, WI Divicion

per CSN 43-43

33:

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

INTO.

FROM

Chief of Obation, Mexico City

SUBJECT

Monthly Operational Report for Proicet LIEWOY

ACTION REQUIRED: REFERENCES

Action: Tone Wor Heriquarters' intomation

: 111M-29152 dated Movember 1965

CROSS REFERENCE TO

KOBANGER

Removed from Project

is Classification: 50-6-2514

JOB #73-1251711

Box: 24

Fold

9

Whore follows the monthly opcrational roport for Froject LIMOI

activitico during November 1203.

2.. Torect Lines - Novenber 10g

20-u6-r) vas disconnected on 50 October to provide a free line for

use Malnsi a LINSOR target but this conneciion vas not maic.

Processing of LINVOY information

There was no change in the proccooing mind this reporting purion.

i!.

lolation of LENIVOY Information

We most sinificant infomation provino MaMOY ma 1000.7

contact

te bue OsiNGD with the Cuban and Sovlee jnboosies in Harico prior t

the assessination of Presidont Kennedy .

OSWALD's contact had band cabini

do Roadgertors on & October 195g for investication by ODIVY (VXI-4.5).

LIEVOY also provided operational background incormation which leni

co he pocruitment of a local employee in the Yogosla! libasoy.

LIENVOY continues to be the principal couree lou backtrand dator-

motion on Sovieus, Cuban and Soviet Satchlite of icicle operating in tierd

5.

142L501

Millard Go CURTIS mintoined regular mother titt LImGAlan

LIMWOY operation for the precent.

The prcount chief of Golemacion

are of the Lithor operation

since li was neccacary for CURTIS to request

his cocistance in investi

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

INMA-22673

DATE

? Jamary 1404

CLASSIFiCATION

SECRET: 142

HQS FILE NUMBER

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CONTIA"JATION OF

DISPATCH

Sol CZX 82-99

COMMANU

SECRET,

DISPARC IT SYMACI AND NO

IDD:A-22078

a highly sensitive load in connection with the assassination of Preni loni

Konnedy.

This hus been reportod in detail to Honiquariers via other channels.

D. Securily

There were no problems during this month.

7:

Lechnieal

The dour replacement

recorders arrived and are in noe.

canipuont will be undered as the need arises.

Personnel.

There was no change during this month.

Projuction

Tnere is albached a list of reporto, cables an" diopalicheo oratou

üs Headquartors

muring this month.

Piceand (Castes.

Aicachmen: :

As

cision in paint.

Dictatintion:

---

