'104-10188-10032) al 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

| : . - 19 June 1963

SUBJECT: Renewal of Project LIPEAT for FY 1964

cs The attached LIFEAT Project Renewal Request, as prepared
z in project. outline form by the Mexico City Station, is
forwarded for approval.

1. Objectives:

The objective of this project is to provide,
: through a unilateral telephone tap operation, information
on the activities of selected individuals and groups in
response to both Station needs and Headquarters requests.

2, Agente:

a. LIEMBRACE-8 who normally functions under the
MKCHARITY Project was actively employed in the technical
--phase of the- operation during.the home leave period of... eaeearsanseiars
principal outside case officer, David M. WILSTED.

b. During the pset project year, 5 indigenous
basehouse keepers were dropped from the project. LIFEUD-14
and LIFEUD-17, a married couple, decided on separation and
eventual divorce, thus making the continuance of their
basehouse keeping duties impossible. LIFEUD-22 and LIFEUD-23,
son and sother, occupy a baswhouse that was originally
intended to be id for LIFEAT but is being used only in
another operation. LIFEUD~27 was granted a POA during
the project year but was never recruited,

¢. Three new agents have been employed since the
last project renewal. LIFEUD-24 is an old friend of
WILSTED's who will be used as a basehouse keeper and trans=
lator nlong with LIFEUD-26 who is his wife. LIFEUD-25,
the wife of LIFEUD-4 had been included in her husband's
clearance but has now received her own clearance as a
basehouse keeper.

3. Changes:

a. Other than the personnel changes described in
paragraph 2.above, there were no organizational changes in
the project in the past project year. At this time no


poy

organizational changes can be forseen for the coming project
year. :

b. Funda requested for FY 1964 total $83,808
compared to $99,000 grantod for use in 1963, A great part
of the reduction of $15,192 is due to the fact that the
Station programmed no new equipment purchases for the
coming year. : :

4, Intolligence Production:
Although the emphasin of tho LIFEAT Project is

on Station operational support, the project through May 1963

a totally or partially responsible for 31 positive infor-
mation reports of which 20 were disseminated. Of the
dissemtnations, 13 involved the activities of Juan Jose
AREVALO Bermejo or his follovers,

S. Effectiveness:

The LIFEAT Project is a model telephone tap
operation. During the last project year LIFEAT continued
to actively support the operationn of the Station by
providing leads and information on selocted targets.

In addition to this mission the project provided on a
regular basis valuable information on active Soviet tatell-
igeace officers, the Polish and Yugoslav official install-
Btions and personnel, selected Cuban personnel (10 Lines),
American Communists in Moxico, Moxican leftists and, exile
groups in Mexico, In tho latter fiold tho tntensive
coverage of Juan Jone AREVALO Bormejo was particularly
revarding. It ih believed that tho support provided other
Station operations, the CI/CE information and leads, the
ability of the untlatersl LIFEAT operation to cover sansi-
tive targets without revealing Station interests to the

| well juntify the exponditure of funds,
) Personnol and the security risk.

6. Problem:

In the past year as in thepast few years the
greatest problems have concerned the security of tho operation
and equipmont, The current problems conter on two devel-

opments;

a. The Mexico City telophone system is continually
being modernized. Installation of new underground
+ cables replacing the ole overhend lines reduce access
to target lines. The Telephone Company is keeping
5 t



ignments of its telephone
linesen thereby reducing gobility of tho LIFEAT
linemen. The Station has managed to somewhat segate
the first of these probloms by making its tap crosses
in the telephone centrala.

closer track of the

tai b. A government investigation which is uoder
way allows investigating crews to enter any distrie
bution box and check back on any connection in the
box to if it ts actually in uso. On one occasion
a rang back on a epare which was boing used by

All LIPEAT porsonnel havo been trained to take
whatever action would be nocesary to prevent, or negate
the effects of a security flap. Vor details of the
probloms facod and the procautions taken by the Btation,

_, BOO. paragraph .14 of the attached Project Outline.

7. Liaison:

Not applicable

8, Intorngency coordination:
Not applicable

It ts planned that LIFEAT will as in tho past
provide valuable information on a continuing basta on top
priority targots and at the same time remuin flozibloe
enough to be employed in support of other Station projects
fxatnst targets of opportunity, LIPEAT has tho capability
of reactivating its coverago un tie important targets now
boing covered by tho semi-ltainon LIENVOY Project if the
latter should have to be discontinued for any reason.

10, Funda:

Suffictont funds have boon programmed in the WH
Division's FY 1964 budget for the LIPEAT Project.

11, Recommendations:

It 46 requested that Project LIFEAT be approved
for FY 1964, 1 July 1963 through 30 June 1964, 1a tho
amount of $83,808, i fee

