oa" f0808-10143) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

TU
Reins On": DB a

. Do Not. ee

—
“43 Yobruary 1962

: ee ‘mectate Jo3 TT

, SUBJECT. “Raul Jaimo DIAZ Arguelles fe catcia (201~269882)
-->. . Raul DIAZ Auguelles ase

. Raul DIAL aenvens oe ae Ee

i: ’

les of this offico dat cache the following coxnary
of informatio: Fegardicg Subject: q .

report caile 24 Decorder 1959 stated Bubjoct*
json of Raul and Uarina, resided,at ~ RScreereeeeerein
No. 1198 betreon ll and 12, Biltmore, Havana, E

-. Cubs, bject is married to the forzear Mariana RAMIREZ | - cae
Corria/ After his stuccat days he was omployed as a , :
typis’ chanical onginoer, chauffgur and a clerk. .0
Bubjecs. was discharged from the revolutionary arzy (cite 5

anknows) in vhich ke held the rank of Major and on 12 -

Noyenbor 1953 he entered the services of the National

Rovalutionary Police. Subject was appointed as Cyicf
y, of tho Technical Dopartnent. of Tayestigations | @T!I): on
ee 27 November 1959,

bo “ti Decerber 1959 Subject was bolfeved to bes
Se Major Willian GALVEZ, Inspector General of .
eee arzy, oa the latter's extended ;trip to Burope. : : a

: c., In June- 1960 it was reported that Subject, chiot
of the DTI was given a 2 douths leave oF absonce and was if

“to Jeave on a tour of several Latin Azorican countries &
+ possibly to inspect Cuban foreign intelligenco operations, :
Bubjecs vas issued a U.S. visa valic from 22 August 1960. - = :

30 Septezter 1960 for the: purpose of necoupanying ~,
the Cuban delegation to the United Hations. .

- a. It was reported in March 1969 that Raul” casTao

vas 1: to obtain control of the Dri.and roqiacs Heiser
Subject with Manuel PINZIRO a Communist. - see eesa

_@. On 31 Auctst 1962 & source of unknown reliability . 3
reported the following information: "Raul DIAZ Arguelies, .
bigh level roster sf the 26th of July Toversn es ee

resistanca and later head of thé Department of Technicai
Investigations @7T) vas Seca fros hig position in

a ea


. ‘Pinar del Rio. . a

a carding Subject's wite Mariana RAMIREZ Corria.

received from The Federal Bureau of, Investigatiom ang. : —
Immigration and Naturalization Service, It is suggested tha:
you check further hho the above for additional” information.

Sebasay Dispatch #2274 dated © larch 1960 and ONI Report # 13-57 *
dated 29

iBany of the DTT ft cesaued wore sent to the “Batalion de.
“*Cambate" a pick and shovel work batalion whero persons .

eee din disgtace are sent for Panishnent." Tt a . ;
“.: 4), Another source, whose roliability is not-ktom, ~ ~ | "2
stated that Subjoct had fallen into cisgrace in Cuba, . vw

and that while some porsons claired shat he was assigned | eae Bee
to Managua Camp, others were sure that he was aia to i
* prison. : te Loe
g.. One source states Subject was a rezber of the
“*i3th of larch™ Revoluttonary Directory. He was assigned
: Bed the G-5 and was’ later put in charge of the Isle of ae
forces. : .

bh. Another source of unknown roliabifity reported that .
Mrs. DIAZ is very well knownin Havana, beizg p-eviously pa °
activo in the Little Theater, and active socially: -She.is
well known to the rombers of the G-2 at the airport. She
is also friendly with the Panamanian A=Sassador and his
wifa, "Raul DIAZ is poorly regarded although he has at
position of great dnfluence in the DiI. Ke is -reportedi:
working with former U.S. gangsters who ward Coported Jo: :: soe 7
“the U.S. oa he is Cte a the narcotics Rasieriee nae
racket 5 Z :

2. The tiles of this office xeflect the following a : He ait .
eee om one Raul DIAZ: bedissteetcnieniat | :

“a, -Réul DIAZ te resorted to be a nenber of. the G-2 in |

oa “On 29 Apri. 1961 thig office intercepted a report

aatoe’ 20 April 1961 stating that one Raul DIAZ was among -- se
_& group of Cubans who were to-enter Caba fron Canada hance)
4iMexico or possibly Miami via air. It was reported they - ci i
would have U.S. dollars hidden and that they ware traitors, :
black marketeers and “Yankee spies. ”

"2. The files of this” oftice reflect no Angormation beet

4. . All other ‘information reported ‘e this office vas

Ss. "he0 other reports received by this office were: American .

August 1957.

Both reports originated in Havana, Cups.


13-00000

ton to th effect that the above

in tha Srasilfan Extassy in*Kavena .

Sy]. According to &! Sntormaticn sob
this action by Diez apmars to bh a coves up in order to get cut
ef Cuba to cersy on a phase of fort activity, Dias epparently

, As the head of Intetiigence (Tectnical) Seartaont of Tnvestigstiens
and in his capacity he could leeve Cuba at eny tine Bena a

_ 7 to Paqueast ee al throsgh an oahass7. ReHE :

» Ye ave Teondyed informs
* subject is pres’
- Aposstbhy the 8

gs
Traut Diag arguell's 4s PEteved to te in cecpleta charge of

teny “astivity as contemplated by Aldo Pedro Nar: Gliss-Juenas, which

Anveles & plot to assasginet= the Presizent of fea Unita bea

The sidject is described as Rand | Jeime Dias Acgusliee-oei as
“white; rales Cubzn; DOB 9-14-37, Eavena, Cubas 5-11. ue brown -
hater; trom oyna; dant: compl xdica; F2D No. 381958-2; DiS Noo -
at) 185 agi. : 1

“Information received indicetes tha subject is pespensthle 2
‘for assassinations during the SaSista regica; is a known ‘errofist;
“and ds-capable 45 the use of expicsi.ve bobs and autccatic weapons.
. Be ig also believed to have directed assasSinaticns in the past”
= sore tiere, ia Yaxico.,

BGR oO”

“arguelles 4s presently the subsect of a_Z=20 Lookout “throuchent._
a " sll"strategic points of onerys as wed as Aldo Pegro Margoly DLA geTen Ad,

- It ts requested” you use” p= facttitins in asaistin g this :
eal é Ponce ia 7 ths) current wisrsbbouts, of tt hase te dresses aan
~ oe

badrteter witch indicates that, Che. Quevarra is corently is the.

of infiltrating the police derarioents Im all the Secth acerd:
“eountries, Available jnforzstion indicetes Guavarra already «:
gems control over the dydicial Folice in Kextco ity.

at i's Ui

a et em an ph pin

4,

Up i
