# 104-10222-10009

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10222-10009

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

¡PRENTICATION OF SIGNATURES AND

FIELD REASSIGNMENT QUESTIONNAIRE

DO NUT COMLETE

FOR

HEADQUARTERS USE CALY

THROUGN

ömas, J. Hernan

SUPParISOR (troo)

dies. ino sicnaiver

0f.

OFFICIAL

LRADOUARTERS

B DeC 1903 Inton 991t

AUTHORIPEO

AUTMEATICATE

SIGNATURES

AMO

PERITY

DATA

¡PENS MOS.

Zenis bin Bit

33 Des J063

DATE :

2 March or

DATE 'OR-DIATH"

29 June 1939

GS-11

A. SERVICE DISIGNATION (iP

A. OTMIR DUTY STATIONS ON

TO'DE COMPLETLO BY ENPLOVEE

3. CURRIMS PORITION TITLE AND GARDE

-GS=12

S. CURRINI STATION OR PIELD' BASE

Mexice City

S18 DURIMO CURRENT POUR.

DATE OP: PCS. ARBIVAL IN

TO. EXPACIEO DATE O! DEPAN"

TURE PROM BIELO 15 DEC 64

76:

RAPECTIO DATE. ON

ARRIVAL

AT MEADOUARTENS PCS

A. MRITE A DESCRIPSION OR YOUR

RAJOR DUTIES DURINO THE CURRINT TOUR. OF OUTY (ROè APACIOI

1. Complete responsibility.for a highly sensitive, unilateral technical operation

which includes supersiaion of 25 agents, one of these being à senior (GS-13) Career

Agent.

?.

Supervisory

responsibility for a technical and investigative operation

targetted primarily against the local Soviet official installation.

3. Supervisory responslblity for a unilateral surveillance and investigative tean

which is employed on the majority of sensitive assignments for the Station.

1. Field support of i senaltive, continuing provocation operation targetted against

the Cuban Government.

5. Alternate (to COS) Case Officer for a LAURICLE project of continuing

importance,

and also alternate Case Officer for an important technical support

project.

PREFEDENCI PON

DESCRIPTION DO THE TYPE OF MORE LOU MNULO PREFER PON YOUR NEXT ASSIGANEST IS

IT. DIPPEaS FROM

THAT INDICATCO IN ITEM MO.

IF YOU MAVE MORI THAN ONE PREFERFAÇE, INCICATE rOUS CHOICES.

In the interests of my careor development, I belleve that a lour in Headquarters

(after approximately five years in the field) would be most beneficial, so that 1

may become reicquainted with Headquarters procedures and vierpoin. (Sée para

ULA bolow) A dedi officer position In WH would be preferred.

Reports writing,

202

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SECRET

MEIE

ASSIGIUIHT ON INSERTING MU

i... ANO

DONE $

80882.

and and jed choicel

DE ASSICAES

MCADQUARYARO POR A YOUR OR DUTY. DITM RESPICE DO POOSIOLE

INDICATE RADICE OF

ABSIEAMENT IN NIADQUARTERS.

WH

187. gic ce Montevideo

10.

MOS MUCH LEAVE DO TOU OUSINE DETOLIN ASSIGMUINISY

DITH MISPIC! TO PORRIDLE PRASSICAMINT TO ANOTHER FINLO-STATION.

_140, cHorce El Salvador

_ino. chorce Santiago.

INDICATE MUMORO CA PORK DAYS -

-32.

IMDICAYA THÉ MUSKA AND NOR OT OCPEMORNTO UNO MILL DE PRAVALLINO ON MOVING MITH YOU.

Seven: wife - 30; daughter - 7; daughter - 6; aon - 4; daughter - 3; daughter - 2;

infant (due late June 1964), approx 6 months.

AMY CHANCE IN YOUR PERSONAL OR FAMILY SITUATION MHICH SHOULO DE CONDIDERCO IN OETERMININO YOUR MEXT

My wife is expecting a baby in late Juns 1964. Since present tour enda l Aug 1964,

It is requested that an extension until 15 Dec 1904 be granted before transfer so that

I•DIGRATUDE.

COMPLETE ITEM NO.

TRANSMITAL: BMEET. TO INDICATE CONOLTIIOM OF ABOVE PORTION OF THIS FORM.

TO BE COMPLETED BY SUPERVISOR AT FIELD STATION

M COMMOTE TO TO CHARANO PROGRENCE SO THORVANCOR NOT ATONE CONTIN PASSEN

11B EXPOÇSSED PRLAÇAINCE P.OR MEX

Il continued; thid child could more easily travel io next post.

13. COS concurs in this young officer's request and it is strongly urged that

Headguarters extend his tour to 15 December 1964, then give him a tour at Has.

:1A. SIGNATURE:

CONTIATE ITEM NO. 5:2:

TRANSULITAL INCIT. TO INDICATE COMPLETION ON THIS PORTION OF THE FORM.

TO BE COMPLETED SY APMROPRIATE CAREER SERVICE OFFICER OR PERSONNEL OFFICER. AT HEADQUABTERS.

13.

IN CONSIDENATION OF THE PAST EXPERICHCE

ANO PERFORNANCE OF

INE EMPLOYLE,

ASSIGUREAT, AND INE STATTING RIQUIRIHEHTS OF THE

MiE EMPRESSED PRIFEAENCE FOR NEXT.

COMPONEMT SO ONICA MI DI CURRENTLY ASSIGNED, INDICATE YOUS

ARCONHINDATIDES TOO NiS ALST ASSIGIMENT AND SPRINING:

Will Division recomnends that Mr. keenan's tour in Mexico City be

extended until approximatoly 1

to Hi Headquarters

October

106!, and that he be assigned

following home leave.

MA 865.

DATE

Gi CARELA

SERVICE OFRICKA OR PERSONNEL OGLICCA | SIGNATURE.

Robert D. Cashman

2

Marca 1961

FOR LES OF.

CAREER

GEORGIACT

ALAS9:EN:IT.NT.

TIDEO CA

dI. PITLE.

32.

SECRET

---

