/104-10186-10219 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

ren

gpd

‘This material contains tnformation aterting the Rational Defense of
M8 USC Gece TH2 and TH, the trenemUeice ce rerviation of which

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
countay Cuba /Dominican Republic REPORTNO,  CT-316/02516-64
SUBJECT | Baldemiro CASTRO Garcia : DATE DISTR. ©=—«.14. December 1964, OF Ny)
\
NO. PAGES 2 : eo ur ge
1 RE ov™ ont
REFERENCES ‘ag hS nO
\ Bows
vate or 1964 : ~
ROL: 7
pace 2 “Washington, D. C. .
1964 2 FIELD REPORT NO.

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE:

THIS 13 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE.

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban
Intelligence Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no aetion on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checxing with this Agency.

1. Source identified Baldemiro CASTRO Garcia, a
Dominican, as a member of the Marxist-Leninist Movimiento
Popular Dominicano (MPD) who was a student at the guerrilla
warfare training school {n Cuba. Source only saw CASTRO
once, and this was at the home of the delegate of the
pro-Castyo Agrupacion Politica Catorce de Junio (APCJ) in
Habana.

2. CASTRO was described by source gs, being about
5'8" tall, thin, and wearing a mustache .“+3

Headquarters Comments:

The representative of the APCJ in Habana was probably
Socrates Isajas "Pupo" PEGUERO Sehourer. A usually
reliable source reported in TDCS-314/05596-64 that

PEGUERO will be removed from his position as fepresentative
of the APCJ in Habana, and will be replaced by Daniel
MATIAS: Abrfiu, who is now in Habana.

2. According to angther source CASTRO is white, 5'10”
a pock-marked face, kinky hair, and is “pop-eyed.

ECRET
NO_FOREIGN a ig-10-

18 ee

‘stare

To, Tae Taavy Tan TEKS T oce “BR

TFBT
REP CINCLANT CINCSO # ENS atSo-sent av ogmre mney |

dutribution edcoted by“)

ate 8 wD, WE 1 (2), C1 6, RID 1, WH ACL) [SOMOS wt/2.’pn iS

Hearse
im

YT seooromnaring pomtore

L an draft 1 C



py

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-216/07546-64

~2e

In May 1962 an untested source, who was tien & member of the. MPD,

said that CASTRO was probably Secretary of Workers" Affaira on °
ommittee of the MPD. - (Sec CS-3/511,325). anf ey
din ~

the Cent Ce
reported. in CS-3/561,001 that CASTRO arri
Kingston, Jamaica, on 18 September 1963 en route to Habana as a
delegate to attend the Seventh Congrees of the International Union
of Architects, to be held from:-29 September to 3 October 1963.
His passport, No. 115933, issued on 10 September 1963, stated
that’ he was born on 5 May 19°78" in Santo Domingo and that he wi
, an industri. 1 employee. In December 1963 an untested source, @
Sa member ‘of the MPD. reportéd that the first rebel groups under
he~direction of ‘the MPD had been formed at Hato Mayor and at
+ El Seibo, in the eastern part of the Dominican Republic, and that
the Hato Mayor group, composed of about 150 men‘ from all leftist
-parties, was under the léaderstip of Roman’ Baldemiro CASTRO.
(See TDCS 3/567, 2797, (In October 1964-CASTRO is reported to have
returned to the Dominican Republic from Cuba. (See CS-311/06078-64).
CASTRO is ‘married to Ana Mercedes ESPINAL, and they have six

children. a

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
