‘Vfoa- 10004-10764) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

H Correspondence and memoranda relating to "Length of Time Required
| for Obtaining Soviet Tourist Visas in Helsinki and Stockholm, 196h."

Docunet Niner 2B SGD,

for FOIA Review on aR 1376

ATT. | Te: KAAZ-22427 OS cory 2DOl~2VIZY+F


13-00000

See Sanitized File _. tt =
Number 23
For sterile copy of this cocument.



13-00000

_ SECRET

27 July 1964

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT : Length of Time Required for Obtaining Soviet Tourist
Visas in Helsinkd and Stockholm, 1964

! 1. In response to a telephone inquiry concerning the time required
(July 1964) for issuance of a Soviet viea for a US businessman, the Soviet
consul in Helsinki stated that he could issue a transit visa (valid for 24
hours) in five minutes but that for a longer stay he would need about a

week to process a visa application and have Inturist arrange for lodgings.
He implied that the main reason for delays in visa issuances was a shortage
of hotel epace in the USSR.

2. A Finnish travel agency representative eaid in July 1964 that he
is able to obtain Soviet tourist visas for his customers within five days if
he pushes the matter.

3. A telephone check with the Soviet consulate in Stockholm in July
H 1964 revealed that normal visa processing there takes seven days but that
! this can be shortened to five days "in exceptional cases."* The Soviet
! official receiving the telephone call stated that it was impossible to get a
visa within two or three days.

4. A Soviet official in Stockholm indicated in 1964 that visa processing
for foreigners wishing to visit the USSR normally takes six to eight days in
Stockholm but that visas for Swedish businessmen and other personalities
F of special interest (not defined) can be processed directly by the Soviet
i embassy in Stockholm without referral to Moscow.

ocunent rimtas LEAB4Q | Revel ear eee

for FOIA Review on YUN 1976



13-00000

IDI ELL RST In ne cose:
TOS BaST QIEGE

Te pee . bsprou
% BOLMmSyIA geese err co sybyr gude in
Iwapesseq FY [404 Gee Arps bioces

TEG BCATS;

ay mrene
HOPS! Peet
{OL [OLeIEyGLa ay

bee eed

ay

adios

fase Leb “eos

pyeS co aro oy

a

ATUETE pas 3
sureyeT tecerare® gpe rsyebyoue cy:

ou eretey (vse ie aye retovarpys po Fer

jé CUU Pe RYGLSEUST fo YAS qvhe yu ercsherousy esecg EPs posse

$ EGARSTES tyes LOLINS! Ayey Proreasr? cyeLe pseee eGasH GaAs poe {S;
2° y feyohyoue coece wie gos Sf COMeNyS;s my LpocKROTR. d

cre beavees te werten:
+ £O ONEMI BOLfot LONLIEL ATESe TOL WIe CHefONs se
Soooy Ernaey pivacy gfeuch 2 UA6 Garg

eaeite gas qeks
yeTA 1Qeg teen tc

REBEL

