104-t0071-10101) { 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

© “PROCESSING ACTION
i |

[MARKED FOR INDE MiN

,_DIsPATeR™ sine

Chief, WOMUSE_ [NO INDEXIKG ReOwIE89
E é : | Tower ovat fail
Chief, European Division i caw suoce
FROM \ T i a
Chief of Station, Ottawaliiny !MICROFIN sssstitit
Prva) MHCHAOS Pus

Congress of Black Writers Conference in Montreal

[ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action; FYI

Reference: OTTAWA 5648, 20 September 1968

Attached is a SMABOVE report which is further to Reference,
Reference was based on SMABOVE's letter of 18 September which is
mentioned in paragraph 2 of the attached report, The attached
report is for WOFIRM only, SMABOVE has given the report to LNERGO
also, and asks that we not. take any action which might jeopardize

“
their. source,

Attachment: H/W
As Stated

Lane paa .
2 - Chief, womsk w/att h/w
1- Gaier! EUR w/att h/w

{CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE

OCOA-13493 27 September 1968

HOS FILE RUMBER

|__SeORETRYBAT



14-00000

Quebec, & ir
uvriere) (L.5.0, ny
aved g teaflet on the Congress of Slack iriters cece
a scheduled to te held at the Stephen Leacock Bldg., and the Stude:
“ * Union Blds., NeGi11 University, lontreal, Sue., from October 11 to
October 14, 19€8. ‘The leaflet’ outlined the program of the Conference
to be dedicated to the late Rev. Martin Luther NG
as follows:

Cost of Registration: v4.00

Program: ‘Towards the Second Emancipation of the Dynamics of
Black Liberation,

i+ Origins and Consequences of the 3

ck-White Conference
with C.L.a. JANZS and Alvin. >0US

ith C.L.2.

. ae 2. The "Terms" of the Modern Black 4 areness
One JaHBS end Robert HILL,

ttn. 3+ Re-evaluation from the Past ~ (in French) by ene
E DEPESTRE. coma

~ 4. Civilizations of Ancient africa by Richard NocRE,
iat

5+ Contribution of the Afro~emerican end 4utericen to
Sees Fanart aera a at 4merican History in Civilization by Leroi JONES,

‘+ Saciel Discrimination in Britain by Hicnara SMaLL.
?. an Svening of Soul Music.
8 Black Fower in U.S. by Stokley CaRxIc:

9. Black Revolution 3rd World Capitalism by, Zldridge
CLEAUER and James FOREMAN, la tens

for Resolutions, t

Editorial: "It 1s in this pontext, this Congness of Black Writer
hopes to make its contribution. sexe for the ke time in Canada an |
attempt will be made to recall, ina series of pppuiar lectures by |
vast scholers, artists and politicians, the history which we nave. |
been taugnt to forget. The history, the Blacknan's om respor

e, H
in thought and in action to the conditions of his existence in the iG
New Worla." . He

Names: C.L.R. JAMES, Negro; Alvin POUSSIN; Robert: KILL,
Be DEP: =, Haitian; Bichara HOORE, fron Barbados;
‘ichard SMALL, Jamaican; Stokley CaRMICH Ne

R from Little Rock, Arkansas; Janes FORE

Rocky JONES from Truro, Nova Scotia.

Ze J. POUSSIN, HILL, MooRE,
and CLEAVEH Were mentioned in ous letter
goncerning this Conference, James #1 ZHAN is believed identical
to James FORMAN, an executive ‘member of the Student Nori-Viol
Coordinating Committee in the United States. “we Have no
identifiable reference on Richard SitaLL. Rocky JONES, identical
to Burnley allen JONES of Halifax, Nova Scotia, is 2 > ominent
Canadien militent leader and organizer in the Halifax

PESTRE, JONES, Caz A ‘

of September 18; 7.

