# 104-10088-10252

## Page 1

B222d

1104-10088-10252

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

REPRODUCTION

Profict ZRRiFLE

PROMIBITED

REPRODUCTION

1. Identification.

te spot, levelop,

put aust for finisin D.

post operatione. Apento will be spotted in reel eves,

micheling the Kited Bites, but sit po for spentious

sunity resous will probably not be med i tie

countries of reciters: Present devilpantal activit, is

benig conducted in the WE and EF apes, bust it

in unticipated that this will be edrald Is atten linic,

wear.. The project will be spented aperet think caning.

2 objectin The spicie of this prit is the priment,

of → code and ciples materials, in issauce with

requirements levied on the Clanket tre, prime le,

the Rationed tent, aprey.. hive there requirements, ine

indiet to froquent comics, wo listing if tensite would

he valid for the dunstion of the proves sperific...

openitives will he routed on the basir of need and

opportunity The prosect will le culustl ly Finis

* mitte assistance for area dision and statione es

santa REPRODUCTION

needed.

PROMIBITED

3 Bactepound: du pence to the increasing requirementio

for the spenctious, procenent of foreion cale and split.

austerises, Discion D in 1960 began the appling if

REPRODUCTION

as a denmental artie: Tuning the san.

PROHIBITED

PAGE

85 • 119

0003946

COPY NO.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

perial regisemento from NSA becaue neare refuel antin

may respecto ruse reicitice: Besus mast stetinic ane

not equipped to couduct this tige of operation and bauce

of the desiralility if complete, centritised control over this

entire effort, it wis determiel that Duicion D, which ite

in chest touch site NS on priserent requirements, could

best conduct the attity. The fis spothing artists,

Las now aluauced for ensu

the 004 estepany.-

REPRODUCTION

ussing ou

PRONIBITED

4_ Operational arre

(1) Persuel: $ 95 wiN is under written

contract as a pricipel asent, with the priusy teche of

spatting agent canditstes. Of fivin was finet contacted i

1950 though the thief of the bosentsw I I hip

the tief of Station, Luperbourg in connection with

an illegal ravisties operation into the United Hates. dr

a perish of a year and a helf fees contested in 4

sparedically to Cos, trenching, in Shelf of the

Buses of Heretice. Hives of this Bines reflect

an uselent performance be Quin, Du desi

5 1960,

REPRODUCTION

PROMBITED

wadisha

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED

SEGAFT

0003947

PAGE

86

• 119

COPY.

NO.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPRADUCTION

$7,200

Trael+ a PROHIBITED

A furi + otter agento 4 agent cantilate: 3, 000 :

Nees for revies by and

standly; of asets mind

agent candidates .

2,000

Travel of staff employees t

engisel in Zorifle acterly :

2,000

Hire of rafelouses, automobiles

and otter pectiond expense!

1, 000

i 14.,700

Pay for agents on completion of jole?

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED

0003948

87

PAGE

COPY

NO.

of

119

---

## Page 4

14-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

) Jyal ethics nore, openstinal perable, politial: mou ettite.

belt, ..

profaned, jensen opentinally competer, ritter, stile,

Fessienced que offere (feur incilable), able to conduct patient

reich t agit to pill hack if it or hund fee tetts his

he shield, 'Prements bu

REPRODULTION

harow?; no approved, to othes bout eucies.

b. Wither Nuban, out focal pout for constred,

in this focal part maudator. Dei officall elic?

c. Maço rect, cable commo for mucine

sailer culy; no nistrictions on travel; porcilite,

of ine-man overcess (Eape) atrol hace with.

3. No РАд

from stent to fivich.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

eyes eat Meet age Train,

g. ice of alreal, tectel curts (eig,

Marked, in the reach.

he Stand big liste i he hers who can

0003949

PAGE

COPY

NO.

8801

119

---

## Page 5

14-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

4. Blactinkit:

Elations.

realy to go, if stallo

a - No Guerican citizens or vecilents on

people who ever ab tamed 0'5. ais

E to che REPRODUCTION, Mat

1. Exclude orps et title, thare..

a/recond of emerto, thare n/ metabilets of jumpere.

__ as erminals.

5. Guer: feloris rhesull schude provision far

8. Ure nobodi no less never list of everal othermise

will ust lee aware of pitfalls or inciter factors such

_ In freehan to traul, wanted listo, eto.

→ 4 Misuld lue play 201 in 1) to backstop this, ell

documents them forget backdated, Should back he

a CE file:

10. Pill s REPRODUCTICA

It Silverthorne

PROMIBITED

Keeping if files.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0003950

PAGE

89

COPY

NO.

of

119

---

## Page 6

14-00000

frie

REPRODUCTION

PROHI

brise il Levite objection

=) Ive freed punit fir isre, estre, traci, cace-stein + P1.

silestion, Coulete

sop withorti in this faced prist misslit,

Overcas one-man

contral bee suit son roi titre conscor

3) Euer spertine to

ue misist,

PA'R

REFRODUCTION

Nose stret valiteti

+) No American citiza

PROHIBI

for livet action;

pocily for apposad to foreign elements.

To encinil

who truited bip use.

le suites Aimericsu agency- Uie of

a pais en foriquere aud hinited

officid reference,

s) No chain of

4) Do't weet any reeter in hire tenite.

Aficiale withl all pocribiliti,

EPRONUC TION ,

PROMBITED

3) Planig asuld inclute prostin for bling

9) Exlule organizatio Guils, itare with recard of.

investi

REPRODUCTION

SERRET

0003951

PROHIBITED

PAGE

90 or119

COPY NO.

---

## Page 7

14-00000

10).Consicaus.pzt

Malie.

di finit

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

could clea

after precibilitia, (Des

13) Periot of te

silaster.

illus, its for-each

1 REPRODUCTO CE

expererice...

PROMIBITED

17) Filesthone t stable me Pon

15) What and limits on team or nitridicts sist

selected? Mo "tam" mutil reads to go.

14, 2 empire studies,

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECHET

TREPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0003952

0060312

91

PAGE

COPY

NO.

• 119

---

## Page 8

14-00000.

id.

7-25/i - EYe TREPRODUCTION

arca

"The magic liutton ??

TED

"for

PIS 201 cover

cutions.

a Bankupty 30 Star

/Contractsteuct

DUCTIONS U-2

makes

PRONBITED

asi

- El. Benefactor → acumphsies=

→ Example 3 "rou"

Etut PID- merioi

Lenfara

stating: machines" - LE

wit. Fear

ratteria -

REPRODUCTION

1.

AS - FanfamPROFITED -

no fit Persen

Te never meriter

inor aise ten

le Select proper open to ren-

2. Place a comer

3. Secret, Ruler SECRET

REPRODIT

unei

D-WIM -15.

sid - Resee:

ait Brakes-.

PROHIBITED

M11991

PAGE

10

of

сОРУ NO.

• 43

---

## Page 9

14:0,0000

no star ogenci

REPRODUCTION

?. No project a DoROTBITED

except for lone.

3. Pass peg get i (nante):

teles 1500-prom AB-

mach stat i

la Target use bigare

we can spay

11. Care officemay.

comer pile- create d proc

is no danger an co coMe.

Zd Vlet - Remember

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

-SEGRET-

REPRODUCTION-

PROHIBITED

ÜJ)3315

PAGE

COPY

11

•3.

43

of

---

