# 104-10186-10096

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10096

yittt

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TINSIANWNESE

CLNTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

MLA MArOMAl SOARAlDe IAPOrCAUIOS AFTAUDA UAA MALIIDN DePAMDO O1 luO DalLAS BLALAs MEDia UDd ESPAAlii8 el UDA DyuosAE LoTa TilI

IA UBC BARA TAS DDS IDR NA UADETILRATNO OR MITPIBITOR Ol MATED NO RDJ LABAARI 1O AR LARUIDORLENA PATONA lA PrODIDILOS DY IÒI

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

=OUNTREUDa

SUAJECI FYANCISCO LNU (allas "TinO")

REPORT NO

CS C1-316/00481-83

DATE DISTR

4 February 1985

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

(page 7)

8 July 1964

SAIE O91964

NFO.

"ACE guaEhlngton,

D. C.

JATE ACQ JARUATY

1963

FIELD REPORI NO.

PHIS IS UNEVALVATED

INTORMATION

CE QRADINOS ARt

DEFINITIVE • APPRAISAL OP CONTENI IS TENTATIVI

SOURCE,A Inrier Cuban IS-offlicer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Scrudco until Apr1l 1964.

kcaiquarters Conments

'he following report'is one of a series containing personalat.

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

inforaation fron the records of this Agency.

It 1s requested that the addressoes take no action on any of

the Individuals mentloned in the personaldty reports

without

firat checking with this Agency.

" 18 employed as a traine‹

the Tarecscon venerll de Intedigenean loeneras barectorate

of Intolligence - DGI).

He rusides with another Cuban Intelligence

scrvice officer at 30th Street, No. 307, Habana, Cuba; telephone

number 3-3161.

Francisco is & Cuban citizen and was born about 1944.

five feet eight inches tall, weighs about 145 pounds,

has a thin build; a dark complexion; and short, curly, dark

broyn hair.1

Headguarters Comment

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable

information on Francisco LNU, allas

"Tino."

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty|

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

I NArT

REP

CINCLANT CINCSO #

L AIR

I&NS

(Noto: Pleid d'atribulion indicored by "#*.)

NEORMATION REPORI

HU/SA/EOB|1/HEL5/

I CLilIA

NH/S1/402 1 NEA10%

HHLSULCI

m/sv/c2 |3

2CLÍRSA

RID/AN

HIL,/BLAKE

TOTALI WII/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

TNSA

1 XXX

OCR

T FBI 2

OiNFORMATION REPORT

1 LEXCANADA D

3/LEABRITISA 11

L/RASHLBRIAM

traisona

s.1

LX-2290 & LX2184

YO PROJECT (AUMUG'

-CSCI-316/00484-65

COPOIMTIMa grLeAto

BIS : LDrStk

CIREA

2

4,,71

---

