# 104-10192-10235

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10192-10235

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PATE •

TO

TKOM

1) SEP 60

DIRECTOR

'M'SH

SECRET

1-!li.?2

ICUTINO

#8 pione iranti orel

INFO 8

000, COP, 100P/A, S/C fi treate it ers to treated

sfe

SEP)

SEP. 15 01192 60

PRIORITY

IN 12740

PRITY HAVA DIR CITE MASH 0712

FILE

JNET

REF MAVA 611S(0D (1GbO)K

do MENDOZA, CHIBAS AND ESTEVEZ WERE MET IS AND 14 SEPT.

PRINCIPAL TOPICS DISCUSSED WERE:

A: RELATIONSHIP OF MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLE

CIRP TO ODYOKE, MENDOZA WAS UNDER IMPRESSION Y

LODYOKE IS ALREADY

COMMITTED TO SUPPORT MANOLO RAY AS SUPRESS:

LEADER ANTI-

CASTRO SORCES INSIDE CUBA.' THIS PROBABL

JESULTED FROM MIS

INTERPRSTATION OF ONE OF OLIEN'S RETARKS!

IT WAS EXPLAINED

TO MENDOZA WE WELCOME FORMATION THI SILS GROUP AND RECOQUIZE

ITS POTENTIAL APPEAL TO DISILLUSIONED 25 OF JULY AND CIVIC

RSSISTANCE MEYBERS. AT SAME TIME. WS KNOW OTHER GROUPS MAVE

FOLLOWINSS INSIDE CUBALAND WE ARE NOT THINKING IN TERMS OF

SUPPORTING ANY SINGLE GROUP EXCLUSIVELY.

3. RELATIONSHIPÇOF MRO TO AMRASP, MENDOZA SAYS RAY, WANTS

FRIENDLY UNDERSTANDING WITHOUT INTEGRATION MRP INTO AMRASP.

• CHIBAS FEELS MAP CAY WIN WIDER SUPPORT INSIDE CUBA SY MAIN-

-

TAINING OFFICIAL ALOOFNESS FROM AGRASP WHICH IS UNDER ATTACK

FROM SOME QUARTERS AS ODYOKE INSTRUMSIT. IN REPLY TO MASH

SCARET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN "HE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy Ma.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

PAGE 3

MASH 0712

IN 12740

ARM'ENIS. THAT CUBA EXILE PICTURE PRESENTED TO REST OF

HEYISPHERE IS BADLY FRASHENIER NO HEEDS URGENTLY GIVE APPEAR

AVES OF COHESION CHIBAS ADDITITE CANUS THINKING IN DOMESTIC

PARTISAN TERMS AND WEVI SOLAES TO DISCUSS

PUTTING A MOISE

OS MBP SUCH-AS MIRO CARDONAMANIA-JISIDAR. PROFLEM OF INTE

GRATION IS FAR FROM RESOLVED HOWEVER AND ATTITUDE OF CHISAS

AND ESTEVEZ IN PARTICULAR IS MORE COOL THAN WARM ON THIS.

C.

AIR DROPS. MENDOZA REACTIGN 1A SEPT TO LATEST POST.

PONEMENT. (DIR 00345) WAS AGREEABLY PHILOSOPHIC AFTER HIS STRONG

PLEA DAY BEFORE THAT WE GO ALL OUT TO MEET 1S SEPT DATE 09

RISK TOTAL MORALE BREADOWN AMONG ESCAMBRAY FORCES. ALSO

SAID PAY SENT ENVOY TO ESCAMBRAY A TO 8 SEPT TO APPRAISE

FORCES THERE. DURING THIS PERIOS SEVERAL LOCAL RESiSTANCE

CHIEFS CONFERRED AND AGREED AGCEDE SINECIOS LEADERSMIP.

THEIR COMBINED STRENGTH APPROXIMATES FIVE HUNDRED AND UP TO

TWO THOUSAND MIGHT BE QUICKLY MOBILIZED. RAY HAS SENT TVO

AIDES TO HELP SINECIO AND HAS ALSO INSTRUCTED MENDOZA AVD

OTHERS TO GET AIR SUPPORT FROMITREIR ODYOKE CONTAGIS. SICECIO

IS THUS MORE OF A PARTNER THAN A SÍSORDINATE OF RAY'S AT

THIS POINT.

2. MENDOZA RETURNING HAVA AFTERNOON 1A SEPT.

MANESE ENO OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT, • MENDOZA WAS TO ARRIVE NIAMI 12 SEPT, HOPEO TO MIVE MEETING WITH

CHIBAS AND ESTEVEZ 13 SEP.

HEI

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER MEAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRCHESTED

735

---

