# 104-10112-10239

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10112-10239

¿ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

112267

4a00311

-0?.

jjEJECA

: Chier, ID/3

: Rülgh &. Topisssen

CROZIER, Ross I.

#112 569

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1.

Attached hereto lor concurrenca of the Director of

Security is a monorandum to Chief VH Division indicating

disapproval of a request for use

of the Subjact as an Oos

Officar in PA-Prop activities at JiWAVE in support of Pro-

ject MATE.

2. In early 1960 the Subject, then a Career Agent, was

proposed for conversion to stari employee, contract employee

or independent contractor, of Office • Training.. Teb : con-

sains a resume of suoject's activities ior this agency from

1sti9 to Pebruary 1960 and also indicated disapproval

oi use

of Subject by the Deguty Director of Security of use

o& Sub-

jest in any of the aforementioned capacities.

Ihe. DDS at that

time indicated Subject would not be approved for usa in any

capacity where he would have access to official Agency instal-

lutions. Tab B is a menorandun dated 2 March 1960 to tza 0i-

fice of Training indicating disapproval of use of the subject

in any capacity requiring access

to oficial installations.

3. On 28: June 1950; (sea Tab C),

-

3 Covert Security Clear-

ance: was granted to Office of Fraining for use of tha Subject

in connection with training activities mith no access to Agenoy

Dispos buildings.

He was to remain in his status as Career Agant.

After a review of information sent to 015

with this Css, CIR

AD/alcided not to use the Subject.

/TOS

On 20 July 1950, (see

Jab D) a Covert Secuaity in-

Moval was granted

to un Division for use o

the subject in

ranslaving

accurents pertuining

to cuban matters

and 50a5-

pist in Division by making sigzestions

Cor PP era it piagosas.

Security Apreoval spelled bus apociticaily that

not to have

necess to officicl Aguner zuil:1n%a

1nd

installabiona

and tas not es 215459

in clandestine oper:-

10:1115153

in

the United stites.

It was parerstood ti

1126

the suiter

o: 1,50,

6r08 the 2eb060S Hos

102004272d

she carrarters tran

in tr

!:)

1212o25100 in Carrie

2200

---

## Page 2

14-00000

?

5. "emorande forwarded to Office oi trainine und wH

vivision : long vith the above referenced isc and CsA set

forth noteworthy and ceroratory information on the ubject,

his wife, and several of his wife's relatives.

It was assumed by this office that, in concurrence

mith the 20 July 1960 CSi to WH Pivision,

the subject had

inat been trinsferred to the Headquarters area and was being

abilized as incicater in that clecrance to tronslate docu-

"ents pert ining to Suban matters und to ussist iN Division

in IP and TI matters.

Wil Division to the career Agents Panel requesting aproval

base.

This menorandum in no way indicated that Office of

Security approval was requestec for this move and it was as-

sumed an appropriate request would be forth coming..

e. On 13 October 1951 Chief, SD/2 requested from Wh

Personnel List of personnel then assigned to duvave who

nad previously

Lopal ano songbeen utilized under the cover of clarence a.

29

This firm was the cover for certain initial

phases of Project Male in the Mismi areu.

Nu Division for:rded tne requestec listing. It showed that

the subject had been opercting is an Operations Officer under

2,24 (CEP2.. cover)from 4 september 1960 to 30 aurust 1961.

the office of security was not mare thut the

Subject was not in the headquurters unc beinr utilized as

set forth in the

OSA Of 20 July 1960.

The writer then queried

a/4/Security and Contruct Fersonnel Division, stents Fanel:

to ascert. in Subject's

actual status, employment cuterory and

manner of use, and to initiate such action as would be necos-

sary to determine that subject's use be cormensurate with his

securitr clearance.

On 21 December 1961 a nomorandum was received from

Chief

WH Division

requesting concurrence in the assignent

of the Subject to Jrave and in icating ho had been assigned

POS to JiNAVi on 20 October 1961.

writer then undertook

to detormine how the subject hüd

assigned to Jiate with-

out

mior concurrenes

she Cirlos of Secrity und in violi-

tion of the prior restrictions

us suü out in üne cos granted

on 20 July 1960.

by merorandun o. 6 February 1962,

12. Lois

he Armstrch?,

secretary, arents Fanel, upon request,

Foruürded

& memorsndum

inciciting thit the PCs move of the Sub-

ject to mulato had been upproves on zu september 1961 by tie

Agents

Panel, subject to prop-r security clearance.

SENNET

zjin

---

## Page 3

indian!

SD/2

10.

Ir. derertih willne, wilt/security,

davised Chief,

in lovember

1961 this

the Subject wis indeed being

utilized at naive and had rocess to that oficial agency

stallation.

Robint toroney, iii/4/Security advised on this

date that the Subject is bein treated at JimaVi just like all

the Staff arents

E that ose and in fact häs & desk and office

spice in the builti

11. It is evirent thit the Subject is bezer utilized in

al. rant violation

"strictions imposec on his use by the

eutr tirector of Securit:.

In addition,

the derogatory in-

lorrution inoun in

t is onse and set torth in the concurrent

remorindi (see

2.b

und sab D), is such that use of subject

in this croucity, where he is in constant association with

Stuff Arents and his ¡ocess to the Jinave installation, con-

stitutes .. undue security huzira.

12.

In view

o? the above it is recormended thut the at-

tacher manorandu

securit: lisa provina Subject's present use

And

jeet,

-euestin- Livice

•s to the ultinste dissosition of sub-

D€

202iu2i0d

5o the daiss, rrivisior.

15 Fubr...2y

Ralph E, Tobiastew

ph. roDlissen

a. Clayton CH./ 419-197466-

i Concer

Yeste

SSORST

---

