# 104-10120-10063

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10120-10063-14 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

Д:

TRAVEL ÖRDER

S ATTIL 1954,

LLOTMENT ACLOUNT SYMSC

NAME

OFFICE PHONE

ADE AND SALAI

PC. If Forens tri

2506

05-25 110,600

OFFICIAL STATION

upe ortion (Chiel F2)

Fast, Japan "T 33 sabatted

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in alcotaaace with

Agency Regulations:

"" eval storied iron Meet do to Fait, Sape 155.

PURPOSE

SPECIAL PROVISIONS (INCLUDE APPROPRIATE JUSTIFICATION)

Lependents el ebjoet nuthortial to travel concurrently. lilo,, Deruthy la; deschter

SCO 2bE E5008S baLIngo Antionized in lion of McManlad bassEt.

2Iy espeRa fInEl tino to be ebraged to laste end ply exceas cost to be pate ly eu

played.

Is SONArdESEE SITE AT745-1050, only 3,000 lbe el personal end borschale ebfacto may be

sipped que to abipatn rostetonom. Mll affecto sut shipped up to the maxiam alloved

los the grada, say be floral at overseast expenda.

I OTHER OPERATIONAL AREAS

THEATER CUFARANCOHE ORIAHIBLE!

Maximum per diem allowance is authorized in accordance

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEE TH 32452

with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorized.

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT

TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY.

CERTIFICATION (BY PROCES INADEANCH)

Certified a Irue Copy. Signed

73178L 0/5

copy on file in Central Procesg-

ing Branch. Reviewed. No change

AETONNANGEEAR gRIFICILY SHENED AUTOMOBILE AS FOLLOWS IF APPLICABLE

(A) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER.

necessary. Amended as indicated.

(B)

SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO

THE GOVERNMENT.

BIGNATURE

THE CHANGE OF OFFERE ASHONANDATES THE FORMER#PEA OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT POR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF

SONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECT TO WEIGHT LIONS, RESTRICTIONS RINE PROVIS TO OR GENE, YOUR NOUSEHOLD GOODS, PER-

TRAVE A DE POORE IS ABROAD INCLUDING EXPENSES

OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL

FETECTS PRO AUTO OF TEE AUROR ELUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY,

HOUSEH

700)

GOODS, PERSONAL

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITHIN ONE YEAR OF EMPLOYEE.

TEMpORARY DUTY.

NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL (TYPE)

LET SHINESS

(DATE)

SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

FC7 10504573332768 BUPRaKOLD PARVIOUS ROLTIONA Of NORM9 33-27, 32-28, J4-4, 36-8A, 24-5. 36-207 AND 27-80 WHICH MAY NOT BE VAKE.

# U. B. GOVERNMENT FRINTING OFFICE: 1052-230611

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TRAVEL ORDER

23600

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER. NO.

X6/850 5

LLOTMENT ACHOUNT SYMBO

8 April 1954

NAME

OFfICE PHONE

2566

05-15 $20,800

Dos O1fIcer (Chiat FP)

ONE Tak, Japan ST-52 mbattrod

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in accordance with

Agency Regulationg.

ITINERARY

13-3

Raval euthortsed from lash., DoC. to falyo, Jepenlpes.

FUHrOSE

PoS

SPECIAL PROVISIONS (INCLUDE APPROPRIATE JUSTIFICATION)

Dependents of subjact atharised to travel concurrently, WIfe, barathy lis daughter

LIsa Io, 3yxB; son, Love I., I6 Has; s01, Howard St. Jobn, 2 nos.

500 lba excess baggage authorized in lleu of uncoopeniod baggage.

Any excoss travel time to be charged to leave and any excous cost to be pala by eu

ployee.

shipped due to shipping restisotion..

lar the fode, may be stored at coverment expense.

Saloment of personal vehiele suthorized.

Stendore ExiLE Fos orders required (DAC.).

COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE)

I DD/P

OTHER OPERATIONAL AREAS

THEATER OEYARANOTNE OPHIMANA 31 MET

Maximum per diem allowance is authorized in accordance

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL LET 32521

with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorized.

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT

TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY

CERTIFICATION (BY PROCESSANCH)

Certified a Irue Copy. Signed

artival 0/3

copy on file in Central Process-

ing Branch. Reviewed. No change

¡CatioNdezal gRidig ditiaD AUTOMOBILE AS FOLLOWS IF APPLICABLE

(A) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER.

necessary. Amended as indicated.

(B)

SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO

THE GOVERNMENT.

SIGNATURE

THE CHANGE OF ORIENTATION INDICATES YE TECTO THE TEST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOUR PERBONAL CONVENIENCE.

IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF STATION, YOU ARE AUTHORIZED

TO TRANSPORT YOUR IMMEDIATE FAMILY, YOUR HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PER-

SONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECT TO WEIGHT LIMITS, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVISIONS AS SET FORTH IN AGENCY REGULATIONS.

TRAVEL TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL

EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, IS AUTHORIZED.

RETURN FROM

OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL

EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, IS AUTHORIZED.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITHIN ONE YEAR OF EMPLOYEE.

TEMPORARY DUTY.

NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL (TYPE)

3/g0

Kay Sherman

CFE./FP

10t.

¡ (DATE)

SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZINO OFFICIAL

SEMIN 10Y 31.27

1.B

UPr

(28-48)

¿ IT 1051

SUPERSEDIS PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF FORMS 3J-27, 83-28, 84-A, BA-AA, 34-J, 30-307 AND 17-80 WHICH MAY NOT BE USKD.

# U. 8. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1952 - 230611

---

