€

'104-10166-10278) ial 2022 RELEASE UNDER, THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

3

: Director

i Yederal burexu of Lerestigation
Atvention: ire Se J. Fepice.

3 Deputy Director for Flas

rem
SUBJECT: Mubesmnd A5D-4) mami FAYTD
Mohammed Ade) Moniem FATLD (Baglish Opelitag)

le A Fellatio souree has reported that « Mind FA'DD,
who resides at the Waltorf Asturis Motes (roam 39), Bev Yars. City,
fe negotiating an ais soci vith President Frencots WVALIER of
Haiti. PA'DD, Wo represents Ue Generar Camerce ant Sevigesion
Campany Of Luwalt, aniacaias coatact With Geores do MMRQEAM DLT,
vio Ls propanly {dantical vite tie Geurgs 46 Mastin LUT uno. was
menticned in the Marrer (.4-teetan aopust. FA'ly ta the past vee
duwolved vith Hafesii 7HUJILLO, tae late Lamtalcan hepmlia dictator,
and has. deca reported to have connections With 7140) CANTRO Of Oules

Be Mebject Le believed to. be identical vith Muhamnd,
Medea) Mamia PAYID, veo wus born in Alexesdrie, Heyyt, on 27 Jamary
1929 and 1s described as fallovs: raund facé, dark curly. hale,
wustache covering upper tip, veare tiated glasses, GB

J. ‘Tate Agency's representative ia[Port-ou-Prinee, sits, |
weported on 28 Hovesber 106) thay Hunamad Abdmal FADD: Lett.
Port-au-Prince on cr. <baut @ Novewer 14 en route: to: urope and
the Moar Past. Me vas carrying Maitian. Diplomatic Passports Hoe 1967.
A former United Arab Repuiite oltisen, YavID beseas 6 petal ised,

Haitian citizen in November 1764,

&. In March 1953. 1t was: reported fram Baudt. Arabia by
friendly Weatern service that Ourject vas. a: representative of the
‘Trading Company in Gaudi Arabia, vanish. vas belleved'to bee
‘eover. firm for the Hayptten Intelligence services VAYID wae-described:
as & eontor Egyptian Intelligence officer.

SEGRE td Te >

moverny rg'1?- 1/12/64



5. Thies Agency wold a7 reciate receiving any information
there any be {= yar hireni's files concerning FAYID, as vell os an
investigation of bis activities utile in. the United States.

SCT~325/02413 6%

Department. of State :
Imigretion & Nauurelisation Service

Na/e/aastsfsentoca}at
ty

Distribution:

i 2 Decanter 2: f
Orige & 1 © Addressee 2 aa
1 © Doyt. of date mastos, [3x}33095
do lus 1986
2 BI (2026320085)
tS cxnua clei!
2 = Ct/109 LATCH. @
nd + i/2/tatte a
2 © 141/Po,
le
de

SEORET 40:
