# 104-10110-10431

## Page 1

104-10110-10431

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AIR SUPPORT DIVISION, DD/P

11 July 1962.

RELEASE CONTINGENCY PLAN 62-2

CHART OR MAP REFERENCE:

Sectional aeronautical charts: As required.

RETURN FO CIA:

Backgroung Use Only:

-Do Not Réproduce:

TASK ORGANIZATION:

=4

Det. 1, 1045th Operational Evaluation and Training Group, Major

Billy B. Campbell, Commander.

1i SITUATION:

Dantel L, Carewell (Altas), Eustace H. Danbrunt (Alias) and amand

R. Taransky (Allas) are TSD Staff Employees who were apprehended by

Cuban authorities in September 1960 and who are now serying ten year

sentences.. Efforts are being made to secure their release.

Since

their release may oççur without advance notice and at a yarlety of places,

le. Havana, Miami, Mexico City, Switzerland.

Brashl, etc., if la

1, preative that a contingency plan be formulated to ensure the secure

reception of these employees.

The controlling fáctor in all phases of the release procedure la

that these employees were in Cuba under alias and that during the entiro

period since their capture their allases and cover stortes apparently.

have been maintained.. Therefore it 1s egsential that these allasee be

maintained until such time as the emplojees have returned to Agency con-

trol and then have these alias identitles disappear as quickly as possible:

Misane

For planning purposes the release points will be Havana, Mexico

City or "'other areas.

2. MISSION:

24.

Det. 1, 1045th Operational Evaluation and Training Group provide

black air transportation from port of entry CONUS to the designated afo

area.

3. EXECUTION:

A. Black air transport will be provided under this plan át the

request of TEW, COS Mexico, or Operational Support Division/OS/DDS

depending on the release point and port of entry.

---

## Page 2

• B. Requeat for black transport should include:

1. Request that RELEASE CONTINGENCY OPLAN 62-2. be

implemented.

2. Port of entry.

3.

3. Date, Local time, and alrfleld desired for pick'up. ?*

4. 4. Desired destination.

• Other requirements, le:, stretchers of bunke la the event

subjects are hospital cases.

6. Name, organlation and telephone number of requesting party.

and off-loading pointe

7. Name and idlephone number of KUBARK contacte at loading

C. The following personnel are knowledgeable and charged with the

responsibility of activating this plan:

1. Major Richard I. Skinner, AD/ASD/DD/P

Organization: Alt Support Diviaion, DD/P

Home Phone: JE 3-1409

Office Phone:

Sterile Numbers ME 8-6285,

EX 3-8515

Extenslons 6862, 7664, 7367

Red Line 1058

03

2. Mr. (Robert Merrero)

Organization: Air Support Divialon, DD/P

Home Phone: (JA 4-3598) 08

Office Phonel

Same as 1.

3. Major Billy B. Campbell, Commander, Det. 1. :..

Organization:

Det. 1, 1045th Operational Evaluation and:

Iritning Group, Eglin Als Force Base, Florida.

Home Phone:

662737

Office Phone: Eglin Air Force Base, Florida 632390

4. Major Kenneth R. Burton, Ops Office, Det. 1.

Organization:

Det. 1, 1045th Operational Evaluation and

Training Group, Eglin Air Force Base, Elfrida.

Home Phones

Office Phone:

662468

Eglin Alr Force Base, Florida 631213

44/830

---

## Page 3

i al

P. Det/A furnish 1 C-54 and crew in standby capacity until

further notlce.. Standby capacity le hereln defined as capability to

position the aircraft al any port of entry in east, south or southwest

U.S. from Boston to Los Angeles within 15 hours.

Miami.:

E. Assuming the subjects will be released in Havana or Mexico

City, Det. I will prepare mlesion folders for flighte from most probable

porte of entry to loolation and Andrewa Alr Force Base.

RICHARD I. SKINNER

Distribution:

Orig. & l=

CI Statt

3

3

• OP

3.

- MS -

3

•C/FE

3

* C/TSD:

3

cça

3

-TEW

3

C/ WH

3 = DPD/DDR

---

