# 104-10210-10153

## Page 1

104-10210-10153

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 M

1041

SECRET

5.- B

FRP :

STAFF

ED:F: CILI-8

INFO: ODPD-D, VR, FILE, C/CCS, I/CI-4, c/EPS/EG=2,

C/EUROO, CHIADIIE, CAIADIOS, CHINTAFLA CIOGIOMS, CAPES, CAPESAPGL, CAPM,

3L5, (3119)

7915÷4033

PAGE 001

TOT: 0922562 ROY 78

DIRECTOR 324÷26

SECRET

STAFF 092255Z DIRECTOR 324426

TO:

PRICRITY MADRID INFO MEXICO CITY.

a RYBAT AKULE KDAFGHAN

PEFS: A. MIDRID 41913 1541466

1.

APPRECIATE REF A.

RE PARA ONE, THERE ARE NO PARENT COMPANY

F0?

UADRID STLTIO'

TO CONTACT KDIFGHAH-I (KO1)

I" VIEN:

WHETHER K-1

SHOULD

INFO?N

ALDRID DIRECTOR

BERLITZ OF HSCA REGUEST IS ONE BEST LEFT TO

DISCRETICN OF KOI.

IN ORDER TO ASSIST KOL IN MAKING HIS DECISION

REQUEST !:DÄID INFORM KOI OF THE ADVEPSE REACTION TO THE PUBLICITY

IFFECTING KOI REPORTED REF AND OSTAIN HIS VIENS CROSTATION

MAY KISH

TO ASSURE

KO1 THAT TO AVOIÜ

AMY FURTHE? PUSLICITY ONE HAS OPTED

FOr INIERilEN TO BE CORDUCTED IN U.S.

RATHEP. THAN IN EUPOPE,

PLEASE

MOVISE T:S REACTION AND ALSO IF HE ANTICIPATES WHETHER HE FORESEES

ANY PROSLEM IN TAKING LEAVE.

RE PARA 2 OF REF L, BELIEVE IT

STATION CAN INDUCE KOS TO COME TO

STATES FE? INTERVIEN.

ASSURE KOI THAT USG HILL PAY ALL EXPENSES

!:CUPRED.

IF KOI RECEPTIVE TO TRAVEL TO U.S., PLS OSTLIN MIS VIENS

O. TIMING OF TRIP.

IF K/1 BALKS AT HOLDING MEETING IN U.S.,

MILL EXPLORE WITH

HSCA POSSIBILITY. OF MEETING ELSEWHERE IN EUROPE,

3.

HOS RECORDS FAIL REFLECT KOL'S PRESENT CITIZENSHIP. WOULD

APPRECIATE IF MADRID CAN CLARIFY THIS POINT WITH KO1.

FOR YOUP SACKGROUND

•I'FORMATION, MADRID 16898 (28 JULY 1972) REPORTED THAT STATION PLANNED

HAVE THE KDAFGHANS APPLY FOR CITIZENSHIP AFTER ARRIVAL ON CUBAN

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SECRET

STAFF

781544033

PAGE 002

TOT: 0922502 N0Y 78

DIPECTOR. 324426

PASSPORT.

FURTHER THAT ACOING TO

SE LATINS ARE ABLE TO

APPLY FOR CITIZENSHIP AFTER COMPLETIOO OF

TrO YEARS RESIDENCE I

SPAIN.

TSY MADRID 17219 C11 SEPT L9Z2SO STATION PEPORTED THAT

CONTACTED THE CONSI

ITE ON I1 SEPTEMBER TO EXPLAIN REISCHA

BOUNTIL HIS SPANISH RESIDENCE ESTADLISTED.

¡MICH GOULD BE APPOOTINATELY THREE MONTHS AFTER MIS ARREVAL IN SPITTA

MOST RECENT INFORMATION IN MOS FILES ON KOL'S CIT:TEMSMIT IS MAGPID

18039 85 JANUARY 1975) KiHICH REPORTED THATNESS

NOBEL HAS OF THE

OFINION THAT THERE GAS NO PROBLEM IN DOCUMENTITO K-I AS "STATELESS"

EN. THE BASIS HE

"LOST" HIS SE

EE DOCUMENTS, AND THAT KOL SHOULD

REPORT TO THE C

Ц.

PLEASE KEEP MOS AND MEXICO CITY ADVISED YOUR CONTACT WITH

i=1.

5.

FILE: 20100288248.

E2 IMPDET.S

ORIG:

AC/LLAMGSB GLEHWAN

x-1222.

GREY

-3-826318 COORD: PES/PEL

(SHEPANER); OLE (PCANSCAS (BRECKINRIDGED; DEALINR

5205531 BOAS

EVE/IS EIGHTIES LAISTE LINFO: AUTH: SALAD SHARPEND; RELE

BUT CL BY 007255.8

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

.1549

..

---

