# 104-10122-10235

## Page 1

1104-10122-10234

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO

1

3

5

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIF

•TION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

COnFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

In/s

I1N/PSI

DATE

INIJIALS

10144

810

81 6.

Hunt.

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarks:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

see if the home a balan

Also de ia all prentinend files.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

UNCLASSIFIED

rose та. 237

Use previous editions

CONFLDENTIAL

DATE

SECRET

(10)

---

## Page 2

ADA ISTRATIVE → INTERNAL USE

.Y

9 AUG 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM : Robert W. Gambino

Director of Security

SUBJECT: Robert Maheu

On 4 August 1910 Mr. James P. O'Connell, formerl)

Deputy Director of Security for Physical,

lechnIcal and

Overseas Security, now retired, called to inform me that-he

had been contacted by Robert Maheu concerning a book which

Maheu is writing.

2. Mr. O'Connell indicated that Mr. Maheu wanted to

discuss

the book with him, together with Mr. Maheu's ghost

writer, one Joseph Frank.

Mr. O'Connell stated that he

agreed

to meet with Maheu but wanted me to know that he

would not provide Maheu with any information of a classified

nature.

3. On 5 August 1976 Mr. O'Connell called Mrs. Relda

White to advise that he had decided against meeting with

Maheu.

Mr. O'Connell stated that he told Maheu that he just

simply did not want to get involved.

4. On 8 August 1976 Mr. O'Connell called me at my

home to advise that he had been contacted by a reporter from

o had been

The Washington Post in response to the news story concerning

the death of Johnny Roselli. The Post reporter wanted to

interview Mr. O'Connell to obtain the

"general background and

color details concerning Johnny Roselli."

Mr. O'Connell

advised that he told The Washington Post reporter he had

nothing of interest to provide him.

5. Mr. O'Connell elaborated further concerning Mr.

Ma. obneki specima eat they was as the boon there

he will publish the book. Mr. O'Connell

believes that the book will be concerned primarily with Maheu's

relationship with Howard Hughes and that Maheu's connections

ADMINISTRATIVE — INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 3

with CIA will be of minor importance.

Mr. O'Connell volun-

teered to contact Maheu and request galley proofs in order

to review the book prior to publication to determine if he,

Mr. O'Connell, is portrayed in an accurate. manner and if

information sensitive to CIA is included in the book.

explained to Mr. O'Connell that whatever action he wanted-

to take was a private matter but that CIA was of course

interested in protecting classified information and infor-

mation concerning sources and methods.

I thanked Mr. O'Connell.

for the above information and he advised that he would contact

me further should he obtain additional information concerning

Maheu's book.

Robert W. Gambino

Distribution:

Original - 1

Maheu File

1

-

James

P. O'Connell File

---

## Page 4

REFERENCE

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1999

=

---

