# 104-10250-10086

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10250-10086

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Background Use.

Do Not Reproduce

MEMORANDUM JOR: Chios, ISD/DD/P

ATTENTION

: Authentication Branch

MI. Jan Deck

VIA

FROM

SUBJECT

:

Socurity Dificor

Chief, Secarisy Rosearch StalliOS

Unknome Subjec:

Author of Acosymona Letter

3 Augsa: 1955

1, Recently cho attached andaymous lottos vas received

by the Deputy Director, Mr. HELMS. Unfortunately the cavelope,

shicà presamably the lottar tao dollrored in was destroyed or

2058, MiT. HELMS' desTeiary tino has had occasion io observe

otbar such questionabls correspondence directed to Mr. HELMS

in the pos:, thought it a matter 10r lda Oflico of Security to investi-

g3ts and if poraible tbrough apacialised passonnel of the Technical

Serticos Division, artempi so analyao the handwriting as a means.

of posaibly identifying tao authos.

2. This sugsestion in of couros quite valid, consequently

aftar conducting cortain research and discussing the matiar with

the Special Activities Stail/Office of Personael, enro Susplus

Employeos (701'3) 5950 considored as possibilitica as the author

of the aforamentionad anosymous lottor.

3. Howeves, in all fairasay it in to ba amphasized that

such tontativa considoration is ai this time based on purely ciz-

cumstantial and coincidantal factor-namely in the firos instanco

that one individual vas, according lo the Spacial Activities Stall,

23 applicant for la Paaco Corps abcal a year ago, and in the

cocond ingizaca 1ba3 tha oscar individual had in Augus: 1964 usod

she dame identifying titlo a9 tha: appearing on tào bottoms of tho

GROUP 1

Ekcladcs tran astonalle

CowardG? 390

SECRET

::111

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SO CREELY

SECRET.

• RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

NDO NOt Reproduce

1. Thoss cmplojoes reforred to aro a Ms. Hormas

Edward KIMSEZ uho was Icleased 20 Septembo= 1963 aitor his

servicos mara declared no longer regaired and & Casa Andrais 0}

RAJONA gho was tosminated on 12 July 1953 for the samo

5. In decking the assistanco of your offico, you will

also liar arached in individually naod envelopes availabla

bandwriting apecimons of Mr. KIMSET and Mr. (BATONA,) is

would bo appreciated il these pasoon handriting mould be of

compared with tho handrajitos notation addressed to MI. HELMS.

I$ is 01 cousse reallued tba: sued an analyain baged on she little

comparalive material availablo till prora to be difficuli ba: you:

= clors and evaluations

3 will be appreciated.

6, Sines tho attached bandariting agccimena sie origi-

naly from Security and Passoarel filos, we would appreciaso upos

complation of your need for them that they ba returned to chis

DIstEs.

Раз! І. Сатої

JAM/03

BETTE

---

## Page 3

!

Background USe w

DO Not Beproduce

published thie itiin to

date, I thought as night

tententi

You fa bites everstorie

Cried 791

DR. COFFIN. The

slider, Yale's

outsonion chaplain, has sorved in the

Cland Peace Corps. In 1961 he was

jailed as a freedom rider in Mabama.

April 30, 1965

the Baitors,

323 Versine

Recio dollar Concer

Wow

York, now fork

SirS:

That caption under the phoco of Dr. Willian So Coccin, Jr. =

to tie ocroce tnat he las scored in tho 021 and Booge Surger -

muct taro cone chivase un Shriverie bacca

Finding rusel? jobless in no wake, of an internal political

purge in that sacrosanet sapor-dacrob aforet, i solacocered for

tie Perco Corps and was bold very overtig ly one of corgontes

top sorceunts - quito understandably - thai way could not difora

to rist contacination

fe antonionce conscions

---

