104-10129-10263) [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

7 : : SECRET

: an (When Filled In) 7

CASE ANALYSIS

NAME OF SUBJECT (Last, Firet, Middle) FILE NO.

RASCO (BERMUDEZ), Jose IGNACIO C-214 485

ANALYSIS

RASCO, Jose IGNACIO
*248084 (Der Junco (Mesa), Avserto) 6/29/61, Pp. 4.

~ ONE Jose IGNACIO RaSco (POSSIBLY IDENT TO THE SUBJECT) WAS MENTIONED IN THE
ABOVE CITED REPORT IN CONNECTION WITH THE MDC (CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC MOVEMENT)
ACCORDING TO ALBERT DEL JUNCO, RASCO WAS AT ONE TIME IN CHARGE OF THIS GROUP,
HOWEVER, AT THE TIME OF THE REPORT, HE (RASCO), EXERCISED NO CONTROL OVER THE
moc.

SUBJECT

#0-352028 (Cusan Sueversive ACTIVITIES ABROAD, Costa Rica) 28 Oct. - 10 Nov. 1961

~ THE DIRECTOR OF A RADIO NEWS PROGRAM "LA PALABRA", JULIO SUNOE, WAS CARRIED ON
THE SHOULDERS OF NUMEROUS DEMONSTRATORS WHO SHOUTED HURRAHS IN FAVOR OF THE CUBAN
REVOLUTION, AFTER HE HAD RIDICULED A CUBAN COUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY JOSE IGNACIO
RaSco (POSSIBLY IDENT TO THE SUBJECT) IN A NATION-WIDE RADIO AND TELEVISION DEBATE.

SUBJECT

#0-351593 (Cusan Suaversive ActIVITIES ABROAD, BOLIVIA) 2-15 Sept. 1961, P. 6.

- Dr. Jose IGNACIO RASCO, A UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR, PRESIDENT OF THE CHRISTIAN
Democratic PARTY OF CUBA AND A FOUNDER OF THE FRD, STATED TO PRESENCIA THAT GUEVARA
SHOWED HIMSELF AT THE “PUNTA DEL ESTE CONFERENCE” TO BE AN ARDENT DEFENDER OF THE
SOCIALIST SYSTEM AND THAT IT WAS EVIDENT THAT GUEVARA INTENDED TO CAUSE THE FAILURE
OF THE CONFERENCE, BECAUSE oF THE 45 PERSONS WHO ACCOMPANIED HIM To URUGUAY, NONE
WERE TECHNICIANS BUT RATHER BODYGUARDS. RASCO ALSO TOLD PRESENCIA THAT HE ATTENDED
COLEGEO AND ALSO THE UNIVERSITY WITH FIDEL CASTRO AND KNOWS HE BECAME A COMMUNIST
tn 1948, WHEN HE WAS IN BOGOTA AT THE TIME OF THE RIOTS IN THAT CITY.

SUBJECT

*0-350653 (Democratic RevovuTionary Front) 9/13/60, P. 3.

~ In June 1960 THE FRD (ABOVE FILE) WAS FORMED AS AN ALLIANCE OF FIVE ANTI-
CommMUNIST CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS, THE MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATO CRISTIANO}
ONE OF THE FRONTS MAKING UP THE FRD WAS HEADED BY JOSE IGNACIO RASCO BERMUDEZ.
THIS MOVEMENT WAS COMPOSED OF PROFESSIONAL MEN AND STUDENTS.

ANALYST

DATE

Page tof J

2 Fes.“19

FORM EW vee rncvious eortions.

(a)

upd
