“'404-10236-10123) [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

~

3 DOCUMENT HAS BEEN APPROVED
FOR RELEASE, AS Rarer pee BY
QI

: eCTIONTO. b
CARAS NO OT vR
MASS FICATION ,
COURS OF TANS DOCUMENT

AGO RECORD CHECK

CURRENT DATE: __22 October 1962
DATE CHECKED: Yetober 1 ie

ENLISTED}. “9 October 1950". : Te: __27 April 1953 Hon. (teateal)” --

eee a Wischarge,
ae :
1 Octobe# 1952 : 22 Jammary 1653 USARCARTS
FOREIGN: SERVICEs. 28 March 1952 70s__7 March 1952 Korea.
~~ (theatre)

"MILITARY SPECt _Tank Crovean >
" cXvEzay’oceuParion, Bookeeper

Epecation___B, S, -3
\- COURT MaRTTALS 9 TIE Lost; 2

EFFICIENCY REPORT (OFFICERS):
i SECURITY CLEARANCE:
SECRET - ‘SECRET Clearance,

$$
SUBJECT granted CRYPTOGRAPHIC
on the basis of a :

_

—. Py

REMARKS: Subjects file reveals letters he wrote to President Eisenhover,

a President Truman and several Generals complaining of being sick
fal and nervous, His letter dated 19 December 1952 to President Truman
i contains the following comment: "I am Glad General Batista took over
in Cuba, he 1s going to stop the Reds over there, and he likes the
American peoples, he wrote me the other day but X cannot ansver hin
Ido not feel good, I'li wait, he was good friend of uy father in
1940 when my father was momber of Congress in his Government,”
Time Jost 23 June 1952 to 24 June 1952. No recora of disciplinary
ection, A clinical abstract concerning Subject is attached.



‘RE: -CANCIO, Pedro C., SFC, RAIS SE1 395

BROOKS ARKXY KZDIGAL CENTER “i
BROOKE ANMY HOSPITAL
Fort Sem houston, rexas

scat /mds
1€ Harch 1953

CLINICAL AASTRACP 5

set,

This 26 year 014 single, Cuten S¥C #ith approximately 2-0/12 years sore
vice wi anitted to the Open Psychiatric Section of Brooke Army Hospital
25 January 1953 ao a tranafer from JSAi, Vt. Clayton, Canal Zena, with
the transfer diagnosia "anxiety resection.”

HISTOKY OP PRESENT ILLNESS; Ths petient was originally aimitted to
the hoeapital in the Canal Zone cn & Kovenber 1952 because of Jiffuss

anxiecy symptors. &t tho ting, tiv complained cf being conrused, loss

of memory, insounia, feelings cf unworthiness, and concern that he was
unfit to te an NCQ. :.6 alsc seeted to de preoccupled and concerned about
the welfare of his mother and siatey, whe live in Cubs, It ite stated

in tae transfer summary that tne patient over-dramatized his situation G
because of hig inaoility to verbalize hia feoliacs. baring. nis hospi-
talization in tne Canal Zone-se arote letters to the prefessicnal personnel
complaining of varicus somatic symptcms and alao several lettura to such
people as tae Preoijient of the United States, President Batista, the
Secretary of Defenay, stc, “He alzo tented to hendle nis inadequacies

by Dra¢gina by seeking assurance from ‘us that he vss en excellent 4CO

wno sculd not te blamed for nla inanility to adjust because of hia !
traumatic combat experiences.” lie apparently shoved ecxe inproveent
while in tue hoazital in tre Canal Zone, tut it was felt thet his socord~ 7
ary gein 62 being discharged as a xciicel pation® «as so sreuc that re~

turn ‘to iuty wos neither oractical nor posaiols snd ne wes therefcre
transferred to this hospitel with a diagncais, of Anzlety Keact/on. a

On interview at this hospital toe patlon® ted that ne bad teen nervous
sinca nile turn from Xerea in April of 1. ani thot he «as unable to
perform ity ag a Set., foelin: that ae ao lower possessed oncugh cone
fidence and was unable to asa rosccnstullity whicn goes with that
bank. He also again expressed & ‘treat deal of vorry and ‘gencern about
his nother in Cuba, who rezerteli, nas heart crouble anc high plocd pros=
sure and tis sister, who has tuoarculoess. ina couplained of feolinva

of depression, marked teneicn, frequent, frighcenin« droaas, usually related
to conbat or frears of aomeune crastag hin with a wifes, cscastonally
nis fatner, art a fear cf "soinr insane." ‘0 expressed a strong desire
to return te Cuba, both to sve an? help take care cf his mcther and also
for tne purpose of vitainir; sacck treatments, since he hae an uncie who
has derived considerable tenefit Sroc tass2 treatments at a Catholic
sanatarium. se furthor cons.6ined ci forsetfuin:ss and a neavy fooling
ia his bead. .

\

SpeePesce rota sntoabiop ey

PAST PERSONAL HISTORS: Tae sutient wes bern ant rearca in Cuta and from
an eerly age aleays had a stron; ‘jasirea ti ze te tne YS, ~econe a soldier
in tne US army and a SS citizen, {3 fatrer was a doctor who died in

194€ auc ano ay. arently was 4 very stern and et times cruel disciplinar-



eee
TcaL an@rRac? :
CaNC:9, Pedro C., SFC, 2413 341 595

ian against enon the patient sonstantly rebelled. fhe nother, who i3
still ilwdce, slwaya treated the pati as ner favorite and cendod to
be overly protective and overly irculgent, he pation’ is tn: oldest of
7 tnree children and the only wey. nis father eas evyerently fairly prom- 1
, Ament in the political 1if@ in Cul a.d ta patient het contact with rome ‘ :
* bers of the American Subassy and as a result through ao Anorican colonel
arranged to care to the US. He went ¢o Weatin, ton, 9.C. and enlisted in
the army shortly tnereafter in Octoter of 1980, Following tasi: trains
lag he was sect to Yorea, {n ipril iscl was sssl..u; to et company
ard eventually Locame a t cortart Apoarertiy caw ceonstiores to
excellent 4CG and ald sell in at. ce@ was © aublsecteat te any
unas) stress witr. tre exception « or two trauatic es~sriences,
} one timo wren @ close frien! of nis sas allied when tna tan bit a land
' wine, and another cccaaion whan his oatfit saz cut off fcr o period of
several hours from the A yvrican Lincs by the Chinesa, fio petiont was :
{ vetetel hare to the ZI in July cf lv, since which tho avvarently ne
| Gos hed conaiieratle difficulty atfusting, ariting nunerous Letters ran
! Gueating transfer, @motion, iischerge, and return to Cun. Ke waa given
a leave and raturmed to Cuta at iis cen eapenss, fits only servsi to
creaao nia tension and anxiety, a8 Lis mother a@pparontl, tainted et
) the airport when he was leaving on fs return to the 3states., Eventuelly
ae O rasult of big constant complaints, lettsra and ;ressurea len he
brought to tear upoa nimsrocs individuals. ne pas transferred to the
Carribean Caomsani, supposed) go he would be noarer huve. Hosever, he

f gas sent to the Canal Zone, ento obviousiy did nct nelp iim too tush. 7
i Imnediately upon arrival se reported on sick call and was nospitelisod
| decause cf hig nervousness, ;

OLRECT DYARINATION: Physical and neurological oxaminations were essen
tially ofthin nomeal lirits. Routine istoratery examinaticns including
urinalysis, serology, and henatology ware ne, otive, A chest x-rey wae
reported as negative. (m mental status exarination tre patient wag in
axsellent contact, appeartig moderately tense, but @ithout any sareed
orjective algna of anxioty. .Thourat acptant was not abnomnal and consistod
primeriiy of preoccupation with rectly oroblexs at hume gat a tremendous
tonoern about ninself, hia tnabilit, to function, and nig ratner diffuse
bo referred on occasion to thougits of suicide, fears

pymptoes of anaiety.
of going ingana, and wxpressei a strinr desire tc obtain shook treatments

He also related aumeroua terrifying Srears, and complatnal oF inacmnia.
The sensorium and judgenent ver impelred.

COURS IN HOSPITAL: Tho patisat since hosoitalization nas nase a fairly

etequate edjus at fu the Open #ani, althous. ne nas not dean tee cooper
12 DBS neyuested

etive insofar as participatica in any grou, activities.
pocees very rerely, the cost recent we ecluriny ween tis pa desired |
ificers w 6 18d real in tas caper were

te castact some visiting Cudac o: fs

ob iesksand Air Force Base. He has :
aera letters tc sucr fipures as tre Presijent of the U3, risever he haa

WESKCA Otsercus leiters to the docter ,& ratuer pieadirs veln beg ing
fee Ralp and mating ratoner woasual rejuests such as expecting tie Amy
Sleence é trip to the srrine i: Leunies, France. The content of these

3; Cdn EO

E

t, as far aa iy kncan, eritten any



CLINICA’, ABS TEAC? cee
Ra: GSSCIO, Padro C., SPC, RAIS 361 SUS

letters reveals a rather lwcature and dapondent personality, sho eceng
unadle to fsee hia own problems or make any attempts at adjusting him-
solf to bis situation and enviroment and is constantly seeking help and
pport fram such father fleures as the doctor, tne President, etc. The
samo emotional immaturity 19 perhapa evident aleo in bis ior life in
his rather naive goal tc become a soldier in tre US Arty. ‘hie. goal
together wits the eufport shich ha must have obtained from othor momtors
of bia-cutfit waa apparently sufficient for him to maintain bis emotional
control through @ period of combat in “ores, At the pronent tise, how-
ever, thie ts co longer present and ne nas now decided that he would be
much vetter cff tn Cuba and hes practically no motivation for retum to

duty.

During ala beapitalizetion he has attended typing classes but claims that
he heo conslierable difficulty in nexcrizing the kvydoard, primarily
because of bis tension end nervousness, ite iia ulso expressed some guilt
over having bad VD overseas and some nesoceupation and cencorn with the
fact that he might still have VD. i!@ #as seon in the VD Clinic on 4
Fobruary 1953 an4 VD clearance 9 given and GU aunaultation a ented
becouse of 2@ chronic prostatitis. ie eee soen in the GU Clinio 42 Fob
_ 1955 where nv GU disvece was found excopt for a very mild urethritis,

The pationt attended approxiiately rive rou» therapy aeszolona with
little benefit other thea perheps achloving come Intelicotual underutagd-
ing of bia ayaptone. During thase sesaicns be constantly referred to
hiaself ané nia own problexs, ahowlar Little or no intsrest in those of

other anmbers of tke group.

It-49 felt thet furtaer hospitatization or treatment will not be of mater-

tel vbonefit to thie patient and that because of his continusd symp’ we of j
feneion and anxiecy which at lonst partially are related to his coudat
experience in Eorea, combined with his extremoly poor motivation, dopond-
ency, and atroog desire to return to Cups, that he should be recanz.eniod
to meet a Physica} Evoluation Hoard at tuts time to vonaidor soparation
from the service. It 1s folt that his untorlying immature personality
should te coastdered and thot be should be oeparatud frem the service
permanently, although it 19 quite pozsitle that his illness may improve
if separa returned tc his former onvironment in Cuda.

a df .

sm 3. “aY, Befor, 4C :
Cniel, Uren NP Section j



U/S/C Attach to UFC8-2191 Dtd 2 Kow 62
IDENTITY SHEET

Adjutant General's Office

Central Office, Veterans
Adminis tration
