# 104-10069-10041

## Page 1

104-10069-1004

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

3-C/513 18

PEECESSINO ACTIONI

TASTED FAT EZ(Z4S

SHAUCH

Chlos, Bovlot Bloc Division

MEER ET

CELT GIALTED E35X

ДЛЯ ПООТЗ БЕЗАТУТИИ

CH:981 FUSORSAR DIVLOLOR

calacor startin Darte on

REDTOR/AFREGATTA/? 1.

ABREGATTA/2 Further Contact with owner

of posturint Iraquented by sovlats and bia repart on Tightening i

•Be Controlo on intelloctuals in the USSR. 2. Lead to Anti-

Soviet Bulgarian First Secrotary.

REFERENCE, (OFPA) 68716, 2 Decenber 1968

1. As mentioned in the referenced dispatch, Identity continues

to have contact with Soviots and apparently as indicated in

ABRECATIA/2'& roport, forwarded under separate cover, with SOVBLOC

officials as well.

2. Identity's roport on repression of intelloctualo in the

UsSR and a recent tightening of the screws as he quoted an Investie

corrocpondent is also of interest. In this report pleace note

ASRECATTA/2'& report on a recent traveler ta the USSR described

in (OPEN) B9081.

06031313

22

3.

Sinco thoro aro throe First Socretarios in the Bulgarian

Enizasoy wo could not idontify the official.

It could vory woll

bo MIcHAD but station cannot confirm this since AEREGATTA/2

indicatod Idontity did not volunteor the nane, and as experienced

in the pact with FAINBERG, will not give our names. The station

will try again through ADREGATTA/?.

RELEGATAJa report en porcible anti-Soviet

carde with dulgiarien

'I'' Sec, possibly

Ken/w MESWAP.

she felon

G.R.

SIDMAN

Attachment: Report U.S.C.

Dist: 5 - c/s0 w/att u.B.df..:

3 - C/EUR w/att us.c.

UCTIONAT

lastuse

IS COP

САРАТОН

AND

22(0FPA)-590G2

CLAEZICITICN

SECRIS

0?255

BATE

JAN &

22 January

128) FRI

14-6-725/3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

AFrance, Paris

4.5.0. aour. 10

0804-8908%

Paris, January 14,69.

No 2r!

d11.

Mooting with Le AdOlnhOViOn ARONSON ME DOMINIQUEL Tie G

russian restaurant "Dominique"

s/c art:/ to OFPA

59082

Usually discreet about his/freequent/meetings with Soviet

v1,81tors to Franced, Aronson told me today quite a number

of things on his latest encounters with them. So first he

said he spent an evening with Mrs Biasheva - a theatrical

critic from Loningrad. It is not the first time he net her,

so she told him "that for the moment in leningrad is quite

a diffioult oppressive atmosphere," "that the intellectuals

have more difficulties than ever"

and once, talking about the

Ichecoslovaguia events Mrs B. told Aronson : "please do not

attribute to us the opinions expressed by Literatournaya

Gazeta - we the intellectuals of Leningrad were dead opposed

to it/the invasion/".

From other meetings Aronson had lately with Soviet visitors,

namely one correspondent of "Izvestia", he got also impres-

sion of a partioulary tight "zajim"/ turn of the screw/which

18 felt pregontly in USSR, especially in both capitalo. then,

ho said, he got the impression that in USSR the intellectuala

find themoolves more and more isolated from ordinary people

which, under the aotion of now directives given by the autho-

ritios bocomes "hostile toward them". What are these new in

structions given by the sov authoritien ? - "To spy each

other and particulary the intellectuals/whom one cannot trust

to fight foreign influence and manners, to be

proud of thoir

great comm. party, to become true proletarians"

"Apparently -

said Aronson - the party turns now toward the "bage", toward

the lower layore of

the population in ordor to find

support against the upper circles of the population who are

fod up with the régimo". The new diroctives, Arongon told, bore

fruit particulary in Moscow,where according to all his inter-

locutors population becane lately hostile toward the forei

gners and toward their own intelloctuals.Also people in the

stroet, in the shop became particulary rough and unploasant.

Everyone uses "unprintable" expressions, which spread also

among the youth and in the sapols.

Aronson related also about the vening he spent recently with

tho First Secretary of the Bulgarian Embassy, who with his

wife wero gueots of Aronson in his restaurant. "Contrary to

what I expooted - said Aronson - 1t turned out that thie Bul-

garian diplomat is definitolly anti-communist minded, and 18

set againat the soviet Union".

"It aurprised me so more,as

the First Secretary 1s a particulary truated and powerful

figure".I asked Mr. Aronson if this attitude of the Bulgarian

ТУ был Арр. А.

02255

18 E0C7

74-6-72513

---

## Page 3

14-00000

рё.

- 2-

Secretary wag not intended in some provocative purjose.so

Aronson replied that he did not think so: because the

Bulga

rian diplomat had no reaso to provoque him. Aronson noticed

also that the Bulgarian diplomat expressed admiration for

all of those theatrical authors which usually are particula-

ry hated by the communists. When fronson agked him about the

theatre in sophia and if they could produce there such playe

as. they wanted, the bulg diplomat replied that thank God in

that sphere they were in Bulgaria still fairly independent

and that so far Moscow did not put 1ts noze into 1t.

My comments : Two points in the statements of Aronson call

attention: First about the "new instructions

and directiveg"

Given in USSR and Second :

about the anti-communist dispositione of

the

First Secretary of the Bulgarian Embassy in

Paris./ If the later 1s true, 1t could be quite

"possibil1ty"/.

APERTURE CARD. REPRODUGTION

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Arpendix A.

LeT Adolphovioh ARONSON /ofton called Mr. Dominique/, owner

Of the russian rest. "Dominique"19, rue Bréa, Paria 6, tel :

326-63-92.

que collation of russian antiques. Ho is also the best theatri

cal oritio in Paris. He contributs regulary to the russlan

magásine "Vorrojdenie" .He has also some relatives in USSR

whore he went many times.Of Jewish origine he however 18 de-

voted toward old Rusala. In his restaurant he entertaing con-

tinually soviet visitors and he probably is in Paris the man

who moets the most Soyiet citizons. He 18 well acquainted to

several members of the USSR embeasy.

He is no doubt very intelligent. He is also pleasant, has good

manners and like to entertain people in his restaurant.As to

his political opinions judging from what he always says and

always writes, he la an amowed anti-comnunist.

Weyknow him since many yoarg and we are with him in excellent

terms, though we never became friende. He has a high considera-

tion for z and now writes alao for RM.

07255

74-6-72513

---

