‘ot oor iam 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

RETURN TO CIA
: Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

Gaatincaron cee TT FrocraiNG ACTION
SECRET [sere on meer é

WH Division

cos, Moxico City H fo (mocKiNe BEQUELD
(6 1 i ORY QUALI O OCR
cos,(Guatomaia city) {:'7 |X jo see moc
| |

cos, (gan Jose) [6~(7 | | econ

Possible Contact
__<____Between Cuban Embassy, Mexico City and FAR.
HT ichion wiquieto aurtatnces

FYI paaneny at

‘
Ol 1. During a recent training period on interrogation with

a(HUGLI8)Case Officer, the point of getting information from ~
suspects on their international contacts or information that
might help other services was stressed. Apparently, as a result,

a» the, HUGLIB Case Officer dug into his notes on the interrogation
of ‘Ricardo Ismael VALLECILLO Perez, Guatemalan FAR member, and
came up with the fol ng_informdtion which he thought WOFIRM
might want to pass to thi

2. VALLECILLOS stated (the Titgrrogation took place in
December, 1967) that FAR was awaiting the arrival of new type
machine-pistol called the Red Star (Estrella Roja) from Cuba.
He stated that it was a 28 shot weapon and would be issued to
commanders of Guerrilla Groups to replace the present Browning
semi-autos. He then added that_the individuals in charge of
shipping weapons and money to,t FAR were two offici: of thee.
Ciiban Embassy in Mexico ‘Cit 1 eis names arg, Alfredo ™MIRAMBAL |
Wiaz and A gels (Gr 6 tor Abeldo bar ME Ibarra. The HUGLIB) officer
stated that WALLECILLOS blurted this infoPmation out in reply
to a sarcastic remark made by the Case Officer about the
efficacy of the FAR gun-running mechanism.

©

. 3. GivcL ven hig permission to pass this infor-
mation to the| if it 18 considered of any value
by WOFIRM, i

Distribution: an
s : aeeeeeeee

2 - Mexico City Gu : 4

2 - Guatemala City)| Sen i: iets a

2 Gites Alias CURT BRE os CORK Te |
7 {

GARDALPHE/gOk a i Hf

10 May 68 Uoecsaeadeeseeeser emhessr as) paerascersecec H

pias z
cous nerenenceTo § pxseatcn sro. no mune att a
Se.
_HRSA -9022 10 May 1968
Ara waa rue wee ,
SECRET 18-9-10 "

