# 104-10534-10098

## Page 1

'104-10534-1009

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

TRANSMITTAL OF OTS FILES TO OLC

OFFICE OF TECHNICAL SERVICE

EXTENSION

OTS/ MPS

222

South Building

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

1.

MR.

HAROLD P. CLARK

SA/DDS&T

6-E-46 HQS

2.

Spe

3. I MR. S.

DDS&T/RMO

6-E-45 HQS

DIMASSIMO

4.

5.

MR. RODGER GABRIELSON

OLC

6-D-5317 HQS

6.

7.

8.

.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

NO.

DATE

26 June 1978

OMMENTS (Number each comment to show trom who

whom. Draw a line across column after each comment

Declassified and Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date:0 03

FORM

3-62

610 USED RENOUS

EDITIONS

7 SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

26 June 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

Office of Legislative Counsel

:

Rodger S. Gabrielson

: Transmittal of OTS Files for Permanent

Retention by OLC

During the recent records review conducted by the

Office of Technical Service at Warrenton, OTS surfaced 4

files that pertain to Lee Harvey Oswald. These files were

not found during any previous OTS searches because they

were filed by "Case Number"

, not by name. These files are

no longer needed by OTS, and they are being turned over to

the Office of Legislative Counsel for their permanent re-

tention. The files in question have been reviewed by Mr. A.R.)

Cinquegrana/ of the Office of General Counsel and they are

transmitted nerewith as attachments to Form 141c.

Howard W. Babcock

Howard W. Babcock

- Chief

Missions and Programs Staff

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

