# 104-10219-10117

## Page 1

-00000

104-10219-10117

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

930

.. - .

3 Noverabes 1981

MIMORANDUM FOR: Me. Jaes I. Напв. Jr..

Deputy Chief, Cl Stall

SUBJECT:

Nide Jaol.G. SUMAN (801-308566)

Mintual Contact of Willlans Hamiltoo MARTIN

and as REMUSICAL

REFERENCE:

Your tomorandam dasad 13 Cctober 1851

8O: "The MI & A CaBo"

d. Thank you very much for your memorandum of 13 October.

referenced abore, and fur the enclosed contacs report, includiag

ALMUSICAL'O pOporE on the Information be acquired from Subject

concorming the laster's interulen by Old and contaci vica Willlam

Haolion MARTIN.

Nosther the blographic dals on SUMAN containod

thereds, son ldo close assoctation with both MAÜTIN and Bernea

FOIgHOOS HIT CHELL DETO LOMA tO 18 hitherto. Neither vero to

aw080 of his apparonely extenalve correapozdence tila MARtIN. li

hao not baen posable te dals to vertly through special sources phother

Sabjact's carpoopendence with MARTIN continued after MARTiN'o..

disappearanco frora sho United Staido. Ha havo not au yor received

tO la182ª NSA rapari ol investigadion, mbicà mould includo la CNi

report of laterrlew ol Subjoce aisco talo documeni apparently bas

bees dolayed la publication and transmitial. However, we bava been

satiata tim the encument la question shoalá be availabio in aparasi

mately one meer to ten days, at which limo we shall provide you wita

liza ONI EnDors al their intertier ol Subjact.

8. la reply to the guary outlined is paragraph 3 of your monso-

randan, ne seo lillla point in attempting to diacourage AEMUSICAL

pors paosing tids ialernaation to tao Soulota, both ca basis of bis past

performance in reporting, and bacauss the KGB undoubtodly alroady la

BURTO Ol SUMAN'S rOlationaliD tO MARTIN, MITCHÜLL and AEMUSICAL.

As a CORBeqUeNCE, lI MOUlI NOI AppOdI NeCeSSaSy lO reqUest ONI lo

eless tula information los passago to the Sovieto by AIMUSICAl, par-

ricatarly stace i8 met be assumed thes to KGB la monitoriag all mail

sons and receited in the USSR by MARTIN and MITCHidh. la order

En sirapilly the handllag of this information both wilbin illo Agency and

tha customer agencies involved, li la suggeated that a straigia CSCI

SECHET

923 02V.

+1-701-787338

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEORET

desomiastion of the information obtained by the agest from Subject bo

propared by Will lor vil, vita copies lo iisa, the fBl zad dais olidce,

such dlesomisalios to do coordinatod will Chlet, El/il, prior le soloase

by the CI Stall, Sech bandilag, se balieve, will enablo WE/l lo provido

Cho appropriato source description and referencos lo earlier corruspondo

eBCa niia UNI ou lala case, la such nanner as to parmit roady intornal

Onl caordlastion in sels matter, and to pectect the leslity of the ageat

as wall as so jolat sperational equisies of both the fal and this Eganey

in tbis case. Aís. Ludlam of your stallo ribe lo familiar to some

extent tia the TIDRAMA/AMUSICAL case, has indicatod thal lals

method of handling sto information will simpliiy any furrber coordira...

don wilb the Navy pa mattors alub which ho ls concessed.

3. For your convenience we are forwarding los your information

2o Enclopuro A, berealth, a reconutructed chronological outline of the

KaR kostledgo of the relationship beimeon damusicAl • subjoct o

MARTIN And MITCHELL. Enclosure A la based upos information con-

ratned in thono documento on the cuse, walch were mado physically

avallable la dais alfice los revier thruligh the efforto of tar. tial

Granquor, HEllE, sho holdo the actual 201 filo on lala caso, includo

lag all operational reporting beginning with January 1961. Car seriew.

Barelore, mus limilad to the laroe-volume IlDIANA Operational Elles,

covering dho parice 1957 through Uecembor 1900, uticà lilas mere

found in the custody of Airs. Gertrude Wecher od S8/CI/R&D.

.: Grangulat adrieed last ll mouldinot do possible 108 us to bare...

alonliar loaa of the material nince December 1460, lor reasons curlined

in his nato, unicà de lacluded da Enclosure B. Moweror, Ma. Grasquiar

voduateered to sortes the enire 201 ille da our beball, and to extract

the portinen: informaidon on SUMAllrora-said tile, .dod to forward such

laformaliun lo lato alilco. To date, such sorter bas produced only one

suct esiraci, copy cí clich is artaclied as taclosuro B.

J'our particular altontion lu Inosted to the fact that revion of

RAB TID&AHA Operational Flles revoaled shal the buix of tho reporting

on this case, Including the identiales of TIDRAMA-L/ANMUSICAL'S

personal acquantarces, contacts, and operational repostlag largaro

on uhom be bas pasted infor mallon to the XGa, have nevor been

indezod into RID Indices, end Iberefore are not reflected in a name

chact submitted by ouser deads or diviions to the Cantral RUD/lades

section. As a corDequence such same check will not la any manner

reflect lo the requestor that there is any ialormalior as such individual

hold in li Ell, eves though extensive information may be available, and

aron lndered in Wall card tiles.

Ibis relume of unisdered reporting

inclades isteraal GlA communicationa betweer Headquarters and Flold

stalions, as well as reports to and frora tke fBl and other U.S. Agencios,

some al shich inclade extensive backgróned data on certain of the egont! a.

= 3.9.

---

## Page 3

14-000000

3 7 02Y

contacis. The failure of HEll lo provido for ¿ YBAI carding of tho

¿doritas mentoned in the actUsicaL ropoto, for chica charo la

ample provietos undar CSN'-43-39, datod. 11: May 199%, bas sesulted:

ds lho dropasch la Subject's case, al an olfieldi Agency meragrandur

dacod 1 lovember 1900, addresded to the Nadonal sacudly Agorcy

and the FBl, carlaing thas ClA Indices contalued no references ideatio

sablo all bichiel e SUMAN di Sierra-Madre, Caliiornia, uho was

a copy of this memorardam la attached as Enclosure E. Undoubtedly

a copy ol the memorandum itsoll, os of the inforination relayed therela

Ess Dande aralable to LN'l by NsA pIlor to actual UNi contact and 1ilor-

VieS Al SUMAN. AU A ICAUlI DA QUI rOCEDS O1 lAA iNfOrMAliOs fOrWArdOE

mile your referesced mcmorandun, a physical rechect was conductod

on 19 Octobar 1961 o1 all AlD/index cardo on fllo In Central RID/Indes

dA PDO DUEDATO O SUMAN. This exerelse revealed that as of laar dazo

tbore voro absolately no carda tiled undor the naino of silchaol 6.

SUMAN as el lhas dato. This check was made prior to our consectlag

of dis. Granquias later thas day or sinorily therealior, with regard lo

passible palas roporting un SUMAN, which rosy bave boes provided by

the agont in advasco ol the latest roport, 118. Grangulat seadily

adradisod that sbere had baen somo provious soporting, bul oratod that

nono ol thore rainsences lad boen indered in or for Hii/inder, sinco

bo docon't bolieve in ladening every same that appears in operatonai

raparting as a contace of las agent, laat la "unlesa ve haro.dome

aparallonal i2tOsed in suck porson. and beratolare sue hava nover had

BEy enCh InCrEdI in SUMAN. ' Lie aldo Indicated that SU MAN's namo

had been passod to the KGS by AiMlUsiGAl some lima sgo, probably

eroand the turn of the-year, "' but vas not able to come up Immediately

mish a apochile deto. or relerenco in uhieh details ut this sopore to the

KOB Was recorded, lie alao Indicated that despita passago some tirro

ago lactually about 18 monthe prior to the report formerded a 1th aster-

ence) by AnjiUSIEnt or MichaO C. SUMIAN'S Emo tO tho KGB do an

lodividual vila wous the agent insintained personal contace, so did pos

100l RABs BLO dOCt, pOr 10, tEasAfOrTed SUMAN intO the category of

persoro "ol aparaiional interoot to us." lihen queriad for further

derails on such reporting. Granquist indicated "that be thought la knew

Just about shero thase reports were located de the filo," and volunteerod

to extract the pertinent information and forward same to lis offico.

However, he indicaled that ho did not believe he would bo able lo lor

Do bOrrOw las actual 201 illa, which 18 on permanent charge to WE/lo

and to per mis us furtines derailad aludy of the material thereia, slace

ho files vare la constant uss al las dead. Homevar, ha mens on to slato

thes ho would do perfectly tilling to lot us borrow the earler IIDRAMA

files held hy irs. Merker, if no preíartod to conduct auch revlew

OUTACITED, PAtRAI lian reljing upon bie:revion and extradias ol portinent

AVES GNLY

---

## Page 4

malariale from theso files. Ille offor nas accepted, and MED. Porackl

aubeeçecally borsomod the liloo hold by Mrs. Vecker; the resules al

udo chack ravelod the delallo of AXMUSICAL's reporting en his con-

BEEtS VILA SUIAN, iNsOfar as such detallo are roflociod in the TIDBANA

oporational files, and aro sommariaod da inclosuro A..

S. It la abriora from evea a rolatively anperílcial torter of theeo

MARATLELA, 1DR8 ALLUSICAL Los noTes boen quentloned in derall by hlo

CLA CaBO aLiCorA DE his relAtIOnAhip tIlL oT tO SUMAN and a numbar al

orbor individuals, those names appoar throughou this corrospondenco.

Melther does be appear lo have been debriefed in depta on the substance

of the interraston he passed to tha soviola da such puroons daring the

indoldust te0r1ags ho had with the KuB, much less regarding tho

scaRica lá the HQB handler to any of the names, or the fallora-up

quertos pas to bira by the sovler Casa Cilicer orally during tho course

of any perilcular moeting whon such information was passod. This

oratomeni, of coures, Is based upos the operational reporting propared

Dy tha Case Officer in Stocaholm, and la obtlously subject to possible

corTection in ito orons such deraila are corored in the indiutdual cono

tact roports prepared after each meeting by the ClA bandles, such

TODOTIO DUR LOVING DUGN ECANNEd OF rOAd IN lLA COUrSE dI thIO rETIOT.

Unleas such dosaila do appear la the contact reporia, it would apposs

thes sonere has withbold much of the derall af bia conversations with

mão Souter hardler, elther sa & titting basto she motivarion los whicà

rosas be colabliahed, or unmittingly, pooolbly becauso he was not asted

for laese dosallo. Under the circumstances, you may ulab to conaldor

andestatica a torouga i ravion of the endixo AMUSICAL caso, in

ordas stal e derailed debrisfiog aí tbe agent may be undertaken upon

bo return to the United States, and prior to hia re-transfor to cho con-

850l of rho f'El. No solo that deapiro indicalions to tho liold that tho

desh usa preparing PraCed on AlMUSICAL'o multitudinode contacte,

the flles revered :chlect the ragulia of such tracing elforts on valy a

BEEl proportion of lão agent's associaled dad contacts.

6. It to requested that the uriter do lept advised of any further

action contemplated in this case, so well as of any furthet inforssasion

developed aboss soures'e contact with SUNil or any ofbor persose

Iguring lis to ZAGRACE Casa.

WILLIAMK. HARVEY

Chies, Fl/Diviaion D

taclosures:

FI/D/APotocki:mem

An Do Ca Do In T, end a SEE Pree i went: = 109758500

1'w/enco: - 05/5RS

'I slenc.

I w/enc.

-203-282338 BY

I olenc.

- 100-6-12413

-201-308566

---

## Page 5

..i

ENCLOSURE. A

Reconstructed Chronology of KGB Knowledge of Alchaol C. SUMAN's

Connection with REMUSICAL and ub IRGRACE Yrincipate

1. Pos CSCI-3/760, 672, dated 12 July 1960, soldressed to ise

EBl, on pigo 11 there la mantioned a "ganaral questioning by SiA BOY

CE AEMUSICAL with regard to ble contacte la the U.S. durini the

mooting betTeOR ELABOV and AEMUSICAL On iS tay 1959. ll must

Do procumed thas SUMAN's name liboly carse up at tula tmo, la lgas.

of Informatios developed as a later dale ahowing sUMit la have beos

the person mea anarred the most Iniluence over daMUsiCaL la hlo

JOULD, ECCOrdIaS LO hE MUSICAL's owE admisadon.

2. At tae 16 July 1959 meeting with SLABOV, ble EGA handlor,

REMUSICAL TEA Inerructed by SLANCV to prepara and submit lo

BLABOY at too nots micetlag a 'very complete lude liatory of bimoli.

(el para. % O5SA-8816, did 29 July 1959) According to the sarao

POlOreDCO, UsO CLA Caso Clílior, Timothy E. Noggle met with

AmMUSICAL oa 1l Jaly, of which tino he obtalood las abore inío, nad

ãs para 17 tha CLA handles states:

"17.

We gave I/l the grean light on his ille history telling

asTa to turnlal a complete. and truthiul repore so TIDRAMA/3.:

The portens of T/3'e "alga-level! schame lor T/l'le bord to asèuce

and hardor yos to accopt at face value. For tha tirze belng li

sOdina Dees lo mainlala our wait-and-see policy, particularly

because the soviot trip should produco's lirm decialue on 1bo

Sertet elde as to whorbar of not Ill is worth all shis bothor...."

SLaCE tO MEJi AEMUSICAL (LON SEll ILDRAMAll) COnLaEE with she

KCh was schodoled:for 3 August 195%, to bo followed by a meeting with

Noggle on 6 Augual, li must de preaumed that as lesas se tado time

AMUSICAL's close iriendship and continuing contact with Michael C.

SUMAN nas brought to the ationtion ul the doã. Howerer, it la poto-

worthy that throughout the operation.

there de very llisle dorailed

roporting from ise field on the exact detailo of that AMUSICAL told

the &GH liandles at each meeting regarding each of bis personal con-

tacta. Subjecl's case la a perfect example. Actually there le no

detalled record of exactly when of that AEMUSICAL fold the KGA

about hla friendship with Subjech, orber than the ilemo concained in

ibis chronology. Melther does there appear la be any reporting of lhe

dopth to bich KGB representatives prubed isto thie relationship, 8ão

seaction shows by tho KGB handler thon AIMUSICAL firat dedicatod he

---

## Page 6

GEORET

Was a ITtend of SUMAN'O, etC. SInCO ALMUSICHL (then TIDRAMA)

aCtually Mas la ContaCt Wish to KGB besIdant In slockboln, Iras

BORISOV in 1957 prlor to his contace oith KU BAlil through tha local

ODACID Installation, there almays romains the pabalbility that SUMAN

may lI sonia yer unerplained manner bave playod sense role in BORISOVe ...

COntACt WiTh ALMUSICAL of which source esther la viliting but lo mbica

ho doos not admil, or of slich the agent is entiroly unblttag.

3. 6961-3/756, 896 addreasod to too I Bl under date of 9. Cictober

1999, pago 5, para 5, indeados chat TIDRAMA did an fact provide

SLABOY mish to requasted decalled personal biographle blatary stato.

mess, Buch information presumably having been passed, as plainod.

on 3 Augual 1459, 11 SUMAN'a BalDe bad nos previoualy como up in the

osal questioning of A EMUSICAL referrod to ln para 1, above, li ancely

suor have colne out on this occasion.

Insemach as SLABUV reyuented ARMUsICAL to provide bim

Whls an addreds at which he could bo resched while in the l.S. in lho

call al 195% alinough tho recore indicates mosely thas he loreupon

supplled SLABOV with bia mother'a addreso in Calliorado, In Mow of

cho balormation ruportod to his headquartera banilors 1a October 1939

prios to learing Washington, 18 must do prosumod idal AdMUSAL

aloo providod SUMAN'o namo and addreso lo the 1ai, 3u obo ol tho

persono he plansed to contace and vieir wish wailo in the U.S.

3. WEll and tho ISI wore avara, ir advasce, of TIDRAMA'S

PlaTE Ro CURtaCI SUMAN whilo on lão Viast:Goadi darlag tie pertod'..

27 Ocrober through 5 lovambor 195% according to lhe original plane.

as lodicarod in atrachod memorandum dared 29 Ucsoder 195% addrcased

by WEll to Mr. illor of Cl/Opo/Sounal, (anel. D) The ortginal oftio.

document was lound interilled in lua TIDRAMA Uperallonal Filed hold

Dy S8/C1/RED.

O. Following TIDRAMA's retura frOm above referenced l'eat

CoBB8 trip la Octaber-November 1954, during which time ho vas

attemptina to ostalo cerrain claosliled information from do Gallíarala

coriacto in order do cumply wiin tho doô roquiremenis givoa him by

SLABOV bofore ho left Stockbolm, TIDRAMA was again debrieled and

briefed by the headquartera case officers of WEll, with report of bie

U.S. trip furwarded to the field as ÜS5W-637%, under date of 11 Noverabes

1959 Apparently ibis pouch was not coordinaled with lie. Milor, sad

18 lo apparent shas so coplos of the completo pouca vero providod to bira

following disparcà to the field, in lighe al various memorando reforting

to OSSHi - 6379, all of which are addreseed to Cl/Upo Sovass and begin

visa a momo dated 9 Augual 1960 concerning SUMAY. Copilos al theve

mtar

---

## Page 7

mamos are attached for jour contanlesco as inclusures I and E. Con-

traTy to lso impression conveyed in Amidario memorandas 01 8'Augua8

1960, & cloadr.roading.-o1 OS5V OSS4-6379 roveals that to tads milD SUMAN

occupied sue entire poriod of bis alay in Calliornia, 1. 9. from 27 Cerobes

through & November 195%, lo the exciuolen even of visiling the liyokera

Raval Station where toured's mother was employad, and conceraing

Walch to bold certain il'o from to soviet case ollicor Undor ibo

ElICUMsTaRCOO, DA COntACI WIlS SUMAN carsos bo diamioned as ligatly

no Ariden's narao might Indicate, and it is vary doubtial that TIDRAAA

woald hare boon able to got olf oub as superlicial a report to hio KGD

handlor as ho appoaro lo have dons with respect to the WIll easo

officoro respoasiblo for blo handliag at the deso.

8. As Enclosuro G. plesse find & copy of the roport TIDRAMA

propared on lia contacis in Calliornlo, which was preparad by tho Dock

asd paused to Mr, Ludiun dor clearanca by approprlato U.S. Agenclos

for pasorgo. This memorandura sas made avatlablo to this vilice by

AsT. Ludlum dssing the weex ol y0 Octaber 1961. tho memorandura

18a011 do datad 11 Novembor 1959, and sccording to lír, Ludlum's sota-

ton was aboan do the t'Bl on that dato, und subaoqueally returned on

3 December 195%, Pleado noto SUMAN'o samo lo includod.

Do According to tir. Grasquiat's memo to bire. Porockl, (ol.

Enel. i) there allosedly lo no further inention of SUMAN in the

TIDRAMA/AIMUSICAL Ats olkor than that forwarded by Granquiat

mits als nose, and the report formardod lo us with relatancod mama.

randal.

Follomas disappearanto irom tha United Stateo of MARTIN

and MITCHEuL In July 1960, end after Iridal request for abdistanco

¡toma this Agoncy, NSA mado avallable:in early duguer 1960 phorocoples

& to PHs torTos completed by MARTIN and WIICHiLL lor omploynent

with N8A, such forma being dated 11 July 1957, three dayo aftor they

reported for duty as fort ineado.

Examination of MARIlN's employ-

ment applicados revesled that he had listod Silchael C. SUMAN of

Sierra DiadIO, Calliorris, as a paroonal relerence in ore case, and as

a crodil referanco in another place, indicating that he had krown bim

sor a period of lour years, 1. e. since 1953.

However, Inasmuch as

Rhose mao no indication that SUMAN had beon connectod in any may

With MARTIN's millary service la Japan, li mne assumed that SUMAN

"as a casusl acquaintance and sor sa intimate isload.

10. Sabsoquent mention of SUMAN iN NSA reports darod ll September

1961 and 1 March 1961 ropeat informaston roparted in para l above, and

Follect that SUMAN'e Rome mae cheched lbrough the HCUA indices da."

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

..s..:

& OERaDOS IISO by NSA inveotigature tila segative peastro. Wo bave

as Jos Dos received tha sets consolidated NSA repart ol intestrallon,

Midea pay cantatn due rosales al the Onl intertias of sumaN, uhlei

do mentioned da enclosure to your maNorasdum af 13 October: 196l.

--1

-7;

SECRET

...

dining we

---

