# 104-10217-10215

## Page 1

4.00000

104-10217-10215

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

c5c1-316/5-038-65

18 .:. 1955

22.6705220739

Diractor

Poderal Bureas of Investigation

AstoniIon: M. 8. J. Papiet

PHOM & DANUTTY DATESIOT POS PLADA

SUBJECES O DIASON, RIeDera

*E:$

1. A legally relate tara sai cause to didntlag

Play for Cura Coralttes and LutHor all!iT al the sagilsa edition

Of REVULUTIVA, GIEBON, A VOTY LLENE JALOIed ANATIOEN DISTO

¡FATTieS tO un baElLationas, vac vortles la the Calvable Brodicasto

1az Ejatos (CES) DEVATOGE VOID aLORS ilLa ANitAr COLonELs, Rubert

¿L-YOU95, Do asLaTilaned the PALE PLaY fUr CUbA COMalILEE 1a Le eSTI

Castro inz and arRasto buorura deran, and various orber Cubas

afficlals.

791-18716-

8. Alchard dISOll siatod that to snor quito vell Rovert

ViLlano, the Aserican Negro Iron Hoaron, Hirth Carallas, vhs bel

salgrAted to CUbe And Dou secas to octie betHera therE sid PelzLAg.

3. Mocardlaz to QIAsOl, he fall tat tha situation dang Aver

Icas nagross (Iras that be could tall la Europe) vas becoalag resy

desjarono. Ho sald that he bad sint la both london dad farts quito a

routa to iraque, crechoslovaxia or isbess, cuba for guerrilla aud

saturasa trelalni. to furlar salù sos sad las leeding ina: vitals

BIX SOathS TO a year thABA trAInAs toalA Legla LaflitraLLs bach

IntO the VOLtON SEATOR 1A PUTAURICA O ULLILARS' SOOR Of an urban

guerrille soneseat.

1. After de loft the Palr Play Sa- Cute Cosaltres, AIES0H re

Intod that he vas reconsendid by the Algerian Antassador to Use

United Failues (Da30 Dot fires) to Da Da lO ALASS iT itroiullos

II8!-

0807-396/00038-65.:3

20 ÷ 306052

-€*

BS 607Y

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

• SECRET

ASTLoaLDe la ALgIeTO, vAlea Ina laen edited ly Jacques Varjes.

When the dijorlans renoved Verges, GELUB siatod Lat do fülloiod

Vergas lo farls vhero ¿be satter set up he. oluttua.

hecarding to

Orason, he served ds editur al 11a lajilal-insgungo tesslus firat

10 parts aal than la Laliants, sailseriand, until a for suaras ago,

Whos he sp11t u1ch Yerdes, lho silll as bla voney cal icos do 1a

VerGes AlIvelS lored Freach bia 10:1018, Goid Soad and lux-

UT10US11710895d apeD Dot of lis ises la pallisca curallas.

220

Haj:1n0 U98 1a faCt Largely editod Ly a VIeLDARASE Ca 1ES 8LASS uDo

often vEsto under other psErdutyes. Is saLe Of ue LagAzise Las

actually quito s0011.

Up MAROLd In A cArTEr 1A Parlo.

a pald Chlotte agont but he vas on bad tenas sita Verzes.

Source Indicated that exeson sremod to be a very relaxed and

pulte bunarous segro intellectual. GHL3ON sold be has vortod for

Rerolution doeause of h1a Interedts lu AIrieda and Astas Indopesience

DoveseniA - had Devor consllerod bladell a coummies and uld Dot sos.

ReVOLutIOn, AcCardlAg LO GIBSON, Dad BADY JOrDURAL CODILeTE TINA ITUr

BlyliCe and LalI tas CariBInly consIdraNie trOtabyILO lufLUesce 1I 1t.

/ Headgurters Cosment: Source 1e probably referring to Mlle

Anderasia el the ls Clie pusilshing fira la suliserinad, ¿bica

priaros the Reralution before 1t ias bansed la that comatry. de

ERE E sORtIalIa literest la CERiTo isnidt, a propaganda orgon

apportady sponsaTed by the Chinese Corrunless.

(162-326/00033-65

DDP/CA/INT: RAdravford: dmh. (11 Jamary 1965)

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addressee

1 - Department of State

01 - CI/ISN

- CI/RBA

RID/PI

#S/3

AF/1/I

CA/B3

CA, INT

SECRET PHLEADED

201-306052

.**..

---

## Page 3

14-00000

i.. i:as.

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

SECRET

(men Fillad In)

DOCUKERT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

S- AMALYST

P. DATE PROCESSED

12.

CROSS REFERREO TO THIS FILE

RI FILE NO.

S. DISPAYCH OR SOURCE DOC, SYMBOL MO.

T. SOURCE CAYPTOMYM O. DATE OR INTO.

TO- DISSEMIMATEO IN

108. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

TRAASFERRED TO

RI FILE MO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

DATE

EVALUATICO

-ND7:225K541NSEEWTRAATIATURSNEEONEDENIATDEIC.IOESEDTISE2E

CIH AIS

201-356052

011-CC1,-105

DISMISJED FECÉ M'ISCHY EOL D CS FCUCUUTICH FUBLICARION.

FOSCELY SOY TO FOF iLiT EC CUS CCILITEE.

...

PILET IS6 201-306052

3 5.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

201-

-306

052

FOM 867 B0R

д - 97

SECRET

(7-48)

---

