“404-10172-40344 | 2029 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

gWieeidnsassenneenosseacnnelindsty

[Oeste

chiet,

Chie, PF

Ti Cer ot tion aia) |
ie
Crigery

sarc a Ate eg

Hl BHO Ca! a
L WQuastto ma DEE OMY,

Bone, for informtion caly, 3s

ol
1, Cathe S0th of Soytenber Brealey again hod lunch with(¥s0c DiE/i}to take
wp roctiae matters of business which included primarily visa end socarity checks.
hes the tndecsicned first valked into tho Kayinett (aaall private dining roon)
at the Officers’ Club in Katajanckka, be gcsnented on the ummsually pl eccent fall
day?! (coor A Jeuphingly replied, *vell, at leest you acres vith GOLUB on one
thing.© fle remarked that he hed soon GOLUB Just the other day and GOLUB hed
courented about the beautiful fall veather, Baturally, ve vere curious ebout
( QoLtB"a tosineso end Just asked (VAC DE, nat GOLUB had to say for hinself.

Watch had been mailed to Soviet personnel in Heleink! and had asked for!
esolatance in investigating this matter)! [VACCIIT/I \eald that be 18 hap,
‘of innocuous help: to GOL on satters of this type as lane es it ia
hermless lintts, GOLUB sled’ ‘told (¥acc Der/i) at thie tine that he would be glad
to help with the fnvestigation in any uiy he could | [VAcc INn/i) had the
investigated uith the result that they found ozt that the envelopea-had bean
typed on 2 Svedish Belda moching, and the envelosea, vhich had been used ren ont of
stock in Relstaki etares about a year ago. The fnvesticatioa pointed to Sweden
as, the place chero thege letters met have bons typed,-and [TACt Ine/IPtold GOLUB

(tip. GOLUB then ested. bin 'if he could tntarvods vith the Swedish suthorities,

Olend|Vacc ne/l)hos proateed to write about 1tDI[Vacc DFA vent on to explain that
his relations vith GOLDS are far nore Seer /1}°bs the chief of the

, Mi

to

OY ACC DIYS) than they ean be to GGL, because hi! ‘thinge from COLUD
it he might not othersieo hear. At tho last the following itens bed

cosa ups

%, GOLUB brought up the toreeysoeLvif S case and sald toatViPTD hed
departed unter e cloud, and vhether Ko would roturn or not, COLI did
not know. (j (VACC THE/T\averred that he pot the impracaion that ViPD

mist have Tigorous questioning before his departures)” ()>

e. CoLEB Toc MPT Vpnat be hed warned hte peoplet to be very
careful in Pinlend to domothing stupid. Uhat he ponat by *his peojlo®
vas not cloar other thai he obviously mexnt just enbasey pereannel.
ol Vice 1/1) had replied rather maliciously to this by saying, "You

4 be too worried about their doing otepld thines since ve
imow how to get then cut discrectly.* COLUB rose to this. by asking,
Sfias euch en ineident hazpened while 7 have been heret® [VACC DTE/ | ()/
waa, of course, thinking of B. 5, KINILOY, but ree aif you
don"t knov, thea T guess I shouldnt tell you, After all, T beve to
have sone secrets nyself.* This ended that part of their courersaticn,

ah, 0

2. Going beck to the VAP ID-Terreyson caso, [FACE jexpleined to Breniay
that three other Livideats-had beon presented as e¥idenos ty the fovieta of attempts
to recruit Soviet personne] in Finland, (See the attachent tol orn 3543, 19 7
September 1958.) Those three onses have beon fully favestigeted, eid there Le
very little beats fe fact to thea. For exemple, the first incident ves to the
effect that (fan) +0120" NY hed attaryted to recrutt a Jovies oftisen as an
inforeant, The truth of the matter waa exsotly the reverse, and this case hed
desn reported to the Xialstry of Interior some two months earlier by|vec oa) ol
Aimesif, th other words, the Sovicts hed arde the Pecrultment atten, t end vero

O! vier mA \repliod that sous wectd ago had come to him vith eone letters
g aint oe

W/E



conreardn oF *

OISPATCH

E. 2. SY2SELYEV, The Plontsh citican Sorafte ¢SOUTIRMY hed entertained
VASILYEY but on comacy orders, since VASDTEY wes living alono ia a foreign
country. Apparentiy this friendl (ness vao iaterprated ty the Russiens as «
Fecruiteet attvat. The ted sequel to this ts that the fire hap besa oblired te
fire POAT TEXT becasse it cant afford to allenate the fovietsin view of the
foviet business, The thin cace {9 eonmret sintiar, free frintieg and the
Ronsenge that foes along vith {t interpreted ee something c(nisver ly whe Aviete.
Yoother or not these are tio farts wo cannot eay, but at Least thin is [Ykcc Dn/ife
Ol

version for Brenley consumtlon.,

Cae
3. A fined tas Roadquartara foal ounsorvod about{Fice D/TPs
eepootation with Cx tS, Vic n/l|arpears to keov vhet be to doinj-and dees
aot pase out information-gretuitously, He hes assured us that he bes rover
Rontioned oar neo te GOLISvor his reletiensiips with even the Syetieh scorrity
Police, In the latter case CULTS. thinks thet his contacts with the Svedes are
with tie police chief cf steckholn.

5168
