104-10119-10326]

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

io

of such information to unauthorized persons could: subject me: to
pionage Laws (Title 18,;,USCA, Sections 793 and 794).

I have been informed that: ‘approval: for-access'to Proj ct-informatio 1m
by Project Headquarters, _!-havée also been informed, thet, extraordinai
and controls have been ,established to. protect Project. informi

information i is-restricted to those who:“must know” based upon thei pl

of any change. in:
ent upon notific

tional use, “| agree to advise appropriate author
tion and“will execute | Termination. Secrecy ‘Agi
quired. Eseresntesiecaies phi

to those individuals who have-been apleetar sh centered f for ‘the
the highest level and that this type information may not be. divulged bi sean
levels of access.: “

lam aware that travel to certain hazardous or denied: areas“of the world such’ as the

USSR, Communist China, and Sino-Soviet satellite: areas may constitute an unacceptable se:
“curity risk and | agree, until formally relieved of this requirement, to request authorization

from Project Headquarters prior to undertaking ‘such travel:

Having reviewed the above security requirements, | pledge that | will never
reveal, by any means, classified project information to unauthorized persons. . Alot
this pledge ! recognize and accept the fact that | have a personal and individual. “responsi-
bility for the protection of all such information in my possession no matter where. generated
nor how acquired and agree to abide by the security requirements and regulati
lished for the Project.

Te™ 2441 ; SECRET

aie



SECRET

(When Filled In)

oo -9 3S0O

.

| understand that no change in my employment status or relationship with the United
States Government will relieve me of my obligation under this Agreement.

| have been advised of the procedures to follow in order to determine the identity of
individuals who have been approved for access to this Project, the current estimate of hazard
involved in travel to a foreign area or to resolve any other question which may arise under
this Agreement.

PROJECTS*

BYECOM

NAME OF WITNESS (Type or Print) NAME (Type or Print)

(i. T. cetihammes) E. Howard Hunt

SIGNATURE OF WITNESS ax} SIGNATURE 4
’ - oo
f a L os “A
c peasy etter
' klk AL irg. | iSinsstacel Pad mae
REMARKS: NAME & ADDRESS OF AFFILIATION

CIA/DDP/EUR
Headquarters

28 August 1968

*The signator should place his initials after each Project name.

SECRET
