# 104-10186-10290

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10290

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 -

BURNE

UNTURN

HON REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TAL RADIATIN ANALAIDA UPORTALOO APOCRIDE UNA NALIAN DAPOTO I EDE L'BITAN FIRINA TUAO ESO INDIRE El INA REDIADARO LATE TILO

IR C'HE DONA 1AS ANA TA, IDA IRREMIANO De MAMALALIA Ol MANS lA LAY DOANDAS lO DR UNAUNANIARS pArADA la prObibItaS DE laD.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBECT Fernando RAVELO

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/00264-64

DATE DISTR

31 July 1964

NO. PAGES

1

• REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

DATE OF

1969 - 1964

INFO.

Background Use Only

PLACE &

Washington, D. C. Do Not Reproduce

DATE ACQ. July 1964

FIELD REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE GRACINES ARE DEPINITIVE APPRAISA OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE,

A former Cuban IS officer who serted with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964. •

Headquarters Comments

1.

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

2. Il is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

Fernando RAVELO, pseudonym "Fermia Rodriguez, " is the

Panamanian Desk Officer in the Departamento de Liberacion Naclona

(LN) of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI - General

Directorate of Intelligence) in Habana. He has never been in

Panama. Until October or November 1963 RAVELO was the

number two man in Union Juventud Communista (UJC) in Habana

RAVELO is a captain in the Army.

Headquarters Comment

1. The reocrds of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on Fernando RAVELO.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

2

STATE

DIA

I ARHY

NAW

I AIR

REP CINCLANT

CINCSO :

Note: fish' detribution ladlored by "$")

INFORMATION REPORT

WHOSE MON

SH. SA.K

NIL SAC

WE MADR & CT RET

RID AN

VH. SAVE L

TOTALS

WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), C14, RID 1

CASOLETE MHIVIOLS FOTTIONS

NSA

I& NS

I OCR

TFBT 2

INCORMATONSREPORT

181

ADAI

DX-1595 4x--274

BRITISHAl i

NO PROJECT

LE WISHERIT 4

_ (AMMUG-1)

LCuc-310100263989

COUROIATIM WEREN

119180.

201- None

CI/REX

J1BR

---

