10217-10117,

aoe

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Do Not Reproduce

WH/00G 71-93
15 MAR 871

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
SUBJECT 2 Status of AKCALL-1 Rangom Negotiation

1. On 26 August 1970, $120,000 rensoa was
paid for the release of AUCALL-1. $70,000 of this
Bmount was paid by the Agency and AMCALL~1's wife
arranged to obtain the remaining $50,000 from
August Vanistendsel, a prominent Belgian with high
level Vatican connections interested in AKCALL-1
who preaumably provided the additional money. Al-
though there was no firm commitment as to the exact
time AMCALL-1's release would be effected, AYECRU-1
anticipated his release within 60-90 Gaya after
payaent of the ransom.

2. Although 6 months have now elapsed since
AKECRU-1 delivored the money to the Cuban negotiator
in Paris, there was no way to deteraine the reason
for the delay in AMCALL~1's release until AMECRU-1
ves able to retura to Paris to discuss the matter
with the GOC representative authorized to negotiate
the ransom cases. Since AMECRU-1 now resides in
Miawi he ig no longer able to maintain as close
contact with the Paris official as was the case when
ke lived in Barcelona. However, he did arrange a
trip to Paris in January to dincuss the status of
AMCALL-1 and other ransom candidates with the GOC

'

Background Use Only



teenie

eer

representative. While the talks were still in
progress, the Madrid case officer in contact with
AMECRU-1 met with him in Paris on 28 January. Since
the Madrid Station bas consistently been advised to
avoid any indication of CIA interest in any ransom
ease, other than AXSOUR-1, little concrete information
was obtained regarding AMCALL-1's status or the GOC
time table for his release. After AMECRU-1 concluded
his Paris talks the early part of February he left

for Caracas where he is expected to remain until the
latter part of March before returning to Miami.
Although a full report on the resulta of his Paris
negotiations can not be obtained until he returns

to Minwi, AMECRU-1 hag been in touch with AMCALI-l's
wife and QUPILL-1 the Madrid asset handling the
AUMSOUR-1 case. According to AMCALL-1's wife, ANECRU-L
advised her the GOC representative in Paris indicated
the delay in releasing AMCALL-1 was partially based
on the fear expressed by certain GOC officials of
AMCALL-1'3 potential leadership in exile movenents

if he is freed. Ag a rebuttal to this GOC argument
AXMECRU-1 wrote a letter to Hanuel Pineiro, the DGI
Director in Cuba, stating that AMCALL-1 had no desire
or intention of engaging in political activitie:

after his release and wished to seek employment with
gome European social research organization. A letter
froa August Vanistendael verifying AMCALL-1‘s in’
with assurance from Vanistendael that he would assist
in resettling AMCALL-1 in Europe, was attached to
AMECRU~1 letter to Pineiro. The Madrid case officer
obtained copies of the AMECRU-1 letters to Pineiro
from QUPILL-1 and forwarded thea to Headquarters.

tions,

wh ee


3. AMECEU-1 also told AMCALI-1°a wife that
the GOC Paria representatives offered to retazn

the rangom aoney if the interested parties were

not satisfied with the current progress of the

case. The ramifications involving any dewand for
return of AMCALL-1l's ransom and terninatica of any
further efforts to obtain hia release are coesiderably
greater than was the case with ANPANIC-7 whoas entire
Yansom was provided by the Agency. In the cese of
ANCALL-1, there would be no vay to demand retarn of

our share of the ransom without exposing Ageccy

interest until such time as the Catholic coatributora
indicate a desire to recover their $50,000 investment.
Hot only did Vanistendael's letter fail to indicate

any concern in this respect, but clearly expmsized

bia continuing deep interest in obtaining AEALL-1's
freedom. AHCALI-l's wife is also insistent tast his
chance of being released not be endangered deting

this precarious stage of the negotiation end that

any decision concerning return of the ransom be
detersined by ANECRU-l's evalustion of GOC intent.
Although AMCALL-1's wife bas always been discreet

and her relationship with the Agency cooperative end
above reproech, her understandable anxiety over her
husband could lead to extrene resentment should say
attespt be uade to recover the Agency’s share of

the ransom at this juncture, This ecald be perticularly
true if the Catholic contributors show no slam over
their investwent or the present lack of progress uade E
im effecting AXCALL-l's release.

|

e
—


&
vo

4. It is,’therefore, suggested that the
hes little choice but to await AKECRO~1's
wetura to Masi where a neipdede pts assessment of
ANCALL-1's status can be obtained by AMSIGH-2,
our contact with AUZCEy-1,

i

Wesley L. Laybourne
Wesley L. Laybourne
Acting Chief, ¥H/00G

DDP/WH/COG/SA: H. Gratz:mli

sane ctetenliicte eee

nt oe

= eemteebetnenes Athan Apoateemamtete

