# 104-10216-10110

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10216-10110

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

S

50

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

ReFO

cOS,

Mexico City:

cos.

Siadrid; COS, Ottawa;

Chief. WE and Chief,

FROMA

Chief of Station, JHAVE @kI

SURRET

TYPIC/Operational

ACTION PIQUANO PRIEREACES

_Status of ASTRUNK MiAPRON Recruiting Elfarts

Action Required: FYI

- AMLASh-1

X

Fixecia

АСТЮМ

MARRIS F91 SECLAIMS

CAT 82. 5029

HE1D6+A8. 70309546

"I ABSTRACT

1.

Three ASTRUNK operations, the forenost objective of each of

which has been to re-contact AMTRUNK-10 to broaden the base

Of MHAPRON recruitment in the AMTRUNK project, have been mounted

1n 1964.

Two of the three have been partially successful but

to date ANICE-14, the AMTRUNK leader, has been unable to make

contact with AMTRUSK-10.

2. Opcration ASTRUNK VI was mounted in January 1961. This

was the operation in which ASTRUNK-9 and his family were ex-

filtratod.

Tho unexpected presenco of AMTRUNK-9's wife and small

children forced AMICE-11 to vacate the infil/exfiltration area

prematurely.

All three attempts to launch Operation ANTRUNK VII

in February were unsuccessful largely because of rough seas and

the resultant difficulty in towing the AMTRUNK Intermediate Craft.

The firefight with the patrol craft in the first stage of the in-

filtration phase on Opcration ANTRUNK VIII in March forced the

team to wait out the alert which their encounter had precipitated.

The team was able to emplace the AMLASH cache and to add to it

an OWVL receiver with instructions and schedules for ANTRUNK-10

as well as additional S/W supplies for ANTRUNK-10 and -11. An

SW message containing the cache recovery plan was sent to

AMTRUNK-10 shortly after the team's return to the JINAVE aroa.

3: With one notable exception, the above failures and

partial successes have constricted the AMTRUNK effort toward

MHAPRON recruiting at least until AUICE-14 should attenpt another

made to recruit Jose Albert SENIDEY Isalgue,' & Cubana pilot with

considerable influence

clandestine aspects thereof. | To this effort, AYTRUNK-13, a close

friend of SEMIDEY for over 20' years, will be sent to desico City.

to seize the opportunity to throw SEMIDEY a recruitment pitch

during a Cubana turnaround flight. Discussions at JAWAVE between

Distribution:

19-6-5413

dis - C/SAS,

APR 17 1964

l ea. - cos,

MEXI

COS

CS.COPY

MADR"

CROSS REFERENCE TO

SOME

OTTA

AE'Y

HOTTIER

828.

Pret. Pian

9 Apr 64

DISPATCH STADOL ANO HUANBER

UFGA- 15196

MERO, VARTERS TIE TORTERN

19-6-84/3

•LATION

17-7-9D5311

int.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

thornie

SECRET

DISPATCH BYMDOL AND NU

UFGA-15196

Lawrence F. BARKER of the MEXI Station and Irying Ne PEGGINS

have paved the way for ANTRUNK-13's handling and safehousing

--

in Mexico City while he awaits his recruitment opportunity.

Through the excellent cooperation of MEXI, MADR and OTTA Stations;

JANAVE has been able to maintain a precise log and to establish

somewhat of a pattern of SEMIDEY's flight schedule.

By virtue

of the fact that, during February and Harch, SEVIDEY made four

flights to Mexico City, it is presumed that AMTRUNR-13 should

have the opportunity to attempt to recruit SEMIDEY within two

weeks of his (ANTRUNK-13's) arrival in SEXI. The false documents

which show AMTRUNK-13 as a PBPRIME citizen nearly are completed

and ANTRUNK -13 should bo dispatched to MEXI within 10 days. In

the ovent that AlICE-ll's presenco in HEXI-da. required to coont

tho recruitment pitch to SEMIDEY, Lalse documents fOr. AHICh thE

trável have also been requested.

•Ise entire on attempt been to still no.

The AMTRUNK case officer, Reuben A. HANNULA, is currently investi-

gating several leads for

a subsequent two-man infiltration tean

, to expand SHAPRON recruiting efforts under the AMTRUNK project.

END OF DISPATCH

DESENSITIZED

---

