'104-10433-10212)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992


13-00000 " : .

APPEALS KEVIT

hab. G-5Q contains Dis pateh.

( ) Previously denied in toto unt

(s)
pb nl SPT

: xcised portions
~°f Kosa

bts, 2)

during the PbO app

) Locate

Referred to DO for review by i

further déseription, identification, cowments, and/or referrals, et

1 RECOMMEND: *

(.) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s) of
() ADD exemption(s) "

(.) DROP exemption(s)” 5

(.) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions
exempted under of
( ) ADD exemption) A

(.) DROP exemptivn(s)

mpted under

8

aii additional information with excised portions e

1a) of Eo /a

(J Deny document in teto under exemption(s}) of 7
(.} Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under
Z Be -

pore eee

‘The exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

i
(
f
C

Information from a foreign liaison service
(uformat ton pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship j
Informatlon which would/could identify the source |
Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods
Location of CIA overseas installation

Location of unacknowledged domestic installation

) Name of CIA employee
)
8B Clypeonas
}<) Internal organizational data
() Name of FBI agent
) FBI £ile mumb
) Privacy of other individual
£ ) OTHER

CIAL INSTRUCTION

LOMMEN

S and/or §

ion review, this

was: _ | i



13-09000 a =p Ww.

SD TeLePouc Gi
DISP Wo ee }
FILE wo

DATE ~ OG APRIL. 1968 .
INDEXING © = NONE \

MICROFILM = NONE

INFO - CHIEF, GERMS CHIEF ,@

FROM - CHIEF

SUBJECT -O SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF THE DEATH OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING, TAZ APRIL 1968

THE FOLLOWING. SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE MARTIN

| LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION-~DURING THE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN

PREPARED BY THE SRR?

i
Qi GRANYA /HAVANA DAILY NEWSPAPER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF

¢
CUBA, FY APRIL 68, FRONT PAGE - ‘‘LAST MINUTE NEWS ~ MARTIN LUTHER

KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U.S.A. ACCORDING TO FIRST REPORTS,

ae KING HAS BEEN SHOT BY A "WHITE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MALE

Sak GRANMA, A OPRiL, FRONT PAGE ~ ‘*TWENTY~SEVEN PERSONS HAVE

BEEN KILLED IN THE U,S,. AS A RESULT OF THE FIGHTING WHICH HAS BEEN
GOING ON SINCE THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. IN WASHING-

|
4
|
i
|
i
| TON ALONE THERE ARE 758 WOUNDED AND 4,186 PERSONS ARRESTED. SNIPERS

1
\
SoNT TO. BE ACTIVE IN DIFFERENT CITIES IN. THE U.S. THE WHITE t

HOUSE AND-THE CAPITOL ARE UNDER HEAVY GUAKD.*"  ~/FULL INFORNATLOW
Ge ed se “ = a . 5
CRANSA, Y APRIL, ts . a

mame ST PAGE - "To. RICHMOND TO LIBER
CASHIN NSTON Parvin, AS:

JATED FRENCH PRESS — AEP,

DISIRIBUTED HERE THIS “MOHN FING
’

OND-To” Hpekate
$ 70 FORM 4 :



13-00000 =

ER rece pouch SEM race wo
As GRANMA, foarni, LAST PAGE - ARTICLE ENTITLED ** PRINCIPAL
JEGRO ORGANIZATIONS IN THE U.S.'", BY JUANA CARKASCO, THE ARTICLE
iAYS THAT NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE DIVIDED INTO TWO GROUPS - THE
‘TOLENT ONES AND THE NON-VIOLENT ONES. . if MENTIONS THE FOLLOWING
WONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE THE USE OF VIOLENCE - CONGRESS OF RACIAL
QUALITY /CORE/, STUDENT NON-VIOLENT COOKDINATING COMMITTEE /SNCC/,
2LACK MUSLIMS, BLACK PANTHER PARTY, BLACKSTONE RANGERS, THE AL’

‘ATROL, REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENT /HAN/, THE BLACK GUARDS, THE

‘EACONS, AND ‘'THE U.S. THE FOLLOWING NEGHO ORGANIZATIONS AKE

ENTIONED ANONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE NON-VIOLENCE - NATIONAL ASSO-
HIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE /NAACP/, NATIONAL
IRBAN LEAGUE, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE
SCLC/.
x Y s
AMY GRANMA, Y APRIL, LAST PAGE - JJATIEMPTS ARE BING MADE TO
LANE CARMICHAEL FOR THE OUTBREAK OF RACIAL VIOLENCE IN THE U.S."*
vet GRAMA, T APRIL, LAST PAGE - Sk ACIAL CLASHES BETWEEN NEGRO
ND WHITE AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN.**
be GRANMA , L APRIL, LAST PAGE = oT Me AMERICAN NEGRO PEOPLE.**
Sir cranna, £ APRIL, LAST PAGE - ‘*NARTYRS OF THE “NEGRO

‘TRUGGLE

d.
Of RADIO LIBERACION AND RADIO PROGRESO /HAVANA RADIO STATIONS/,

THE

APRIL, Gap. fall. AND “12 NOON --""THE CHIEF -OF Wissiow’Te-Ccusa
F THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT HAS SENT A MESSAGE

0 AFRO-AMERICANS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF THE LEADER, MARTIN LUTH

ING. THIS MESSAGE SAYS THAT THE CRIME WHICH WAS COMMITTED AGAINST

ARTIN LUTHER KING UNMASKS -T EVIL FACE OF THE RULERS AND RACISTS

F-THE UNITED STATES. **. “"THE MESSAGE OF THE VIETNAMESE.MISSION LY:
AVANA ENDS BY SAYING THAT, WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER Kina,

LL THAT HAS EB

EN ACCOMPLISHED BY THE RULERS OF “THE-UNITED: STATES

‘STO POUR OIL ONTO THE FLAMES OF THE STRUGGLE OF AFRO-ANERICANS,

Beare

Pouch GRASSI pace Two



13-00000 =

PAGE THREE

PD reveroucn

1) THAT THESE FLAMES ARE HISING VIOLENTLY TO FUT A

END TO ALL THE
PRESSION AND INJUSTICE WHICH 1S FOUND IN THE UNITED STATES, WHICH
OPLE IN THE ENTIRE

NOERS THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE MILLIONS OF F
JUNTRY.**

ice 5 Bg a

QP RADIO LIBERACION, P APRIL, REP P.M. ~ S/STOKELY CARMICHAEL,
[ADER OF BLACK POWER, SAID ~ AWE NEGROES MUST AKM GURSELVES WITH
IFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE STREETS OF THE
ITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN REPRISAL FOK KING*S ASSASSINATION,
ARMICHAEL PREDICTED THAT THERE WILL BE EXECUTIONS IN THE STREETS AS

RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATION. HE ALSO PREDICIED THAT THE

LOLENCE WHICH HAS BEEN UNLEASHED BY NEGROES A RESULT OF KING'S

SATH WILL BE PALE AS COMPARED TO WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN AMERICAN

ITIES."° . .

i ‘ .
Y

Un : 3 ~
Met RADIO HABANA, J’ APRIL, FP. A SOHIS /KING'S/ DEATH SHOWS

NCE AGAIN THAT THE EXPLOITED MASSES CAN OWLY ANSWER REACTIONARY
LOLENCE WITH REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE.'*
TP Pot, A SYCAKMICHAEL SAID

GH" RADIO PROGRESO, .Y APRIL,
URING A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW THAT °A SERIOUS MISTAKE NAS BEEW MADE
NASSASSINATING DR. KING BECAUSE HE HAD. BEEN THE LEADER OF A NOVE=
ENT WHICH URGED THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES NOT To BURN
HE CITIES, NOT TO COMMIT ACTS OF VIOLENCE. THIS MEANS THAT IT WILL
+ CARMICHAEL JaDDED =

NECESSARY TO START AW ALL-OUT REVOLUTION

SERIOUS INCIDENTS HAVE "TAKEN PLACE IN 35 CITIES WHERE THERE HAVE

WES: FIRES, SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEATHS AS A RESULT Of THE CRINE

MATTED AGAINST DR. KING.” RATURALLY,° OTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILE
THE. CITIES

“SPREAD THROUG

PLACE, GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDL
ECAUSE-IT IS ALREADY EVIDENT THAT WE CANNOT OPEWLY REBEL. AGAINST

rt

~

f


SS teveroucn CRRMRT race Four

13. RADLO HABANA,

APRIL, MPH. A SASUAN AIARL/ BRAS

SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE WOVEMENT FOR THE INDEPENDENCE OF PUERTO
i100, MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS Ih A LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE
INTERVIEW - foR. LUTHER KING*S ASSASSINATION WILL UNDOUBTEDLY PRE-
SIPITATE THE REBELLION OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES
BEEN THE OBJECT." a

it. 7
ama RADIO HABANA, 5 APRIL, U P.M. A AMTHE EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT

AGAINST ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY KA

OF THE ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES. SOLIDARITY ORGANI~
ZATION /AALAPSO/ SENT A MESSAGE OF CONDOLENCE TO THE SNCC ON THE
\SSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING.** ""THE AALAPSO'S MESSAGE TO THE
\MERICAN PACIFIST ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS A ave BEG YOU TO
IXPRESS TO THE FAMILY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING AND TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS.
DUR DEEPEST SORROW OVER. HIS DEATH, OUR ‘DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR
STRUGGLE, AND OUR DEEP CONVICTION THAT THIS TERRIBLE CRINE~-WHICH
3HOWS US THAT ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY WAY OF ACHIEV-
LG GENUINE LIBERATION--WILL HELP. STRENGTHEN THE STRUGGLE OF THE
\FRO-AMERICAN PEOPLE WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IN THE DIRECTION OF A
OTAL CONFRONTATION." Boe .
bea RADIO HABANA, F APRIL, Af PaM. R duAGUST IN /GONZALEZ/
ARTINEZ, BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF CUBA, MADE THE FOLLGWING
TATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW > way THE TRAGIC DISAPPEARANCE
* THIS. GREAT LEADER AT LEAST HELP TO SPEED UP THE ARRIVAL OF THE DAY
HEN EVERY MAN IN HIS NATZON AND IN ALL OTHER NATIONS WILL BE TREATED

; vy
AN BEINGS." df

ITH THE RESPECT WHICH IS DUE TO THEM AS
BYA RADIO HABANA, ¥ APRIL, WPM. Rsduevencen RAFAEL PASTOR,
F THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN LUYANO, HAVANA, NADE THE FOLLOWING
TATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW ~ AUIS BROTHERS, THE AMERICAN
EGROES, WILL LEARN MUCH FROM HIS DEATH. WE CAN ALMOST ASSURE THAT

HEY, THE AMERICAN NEGROES WHOSE DIGHITY AND DECORUM HAS BEEN

ED, WILL COME BACK. TO LIFE AFTER CENTUR

pea reveroucn

ES OF LETHARGY AND

PAGE FOUR



8m tereroucn CARO Pace Five

TILL RISE FROM THEIR GHAVES AND FORM AN INV
bo

5
SH RADIO LIBERACION, A APHIL, Y P.M. A EDITORIAL COMMENTS

CRITICIZING THE NON-VIOLENT LINE WHICH WAS ADVOCATED BY LUTHER KING,
SAYING THAT THIS LINE WAS INGPERATIVE, JaNaRt 1 LUTHER KING DID NOT
‘REACH VICLENCE BUT HE WAS THE VICTIM OF VIOLENCE. HE DID NOT
JNLEASH VIOLENCE BUT VIOLENCE MOWED HIM DOWN.'’

iy. ag SA0 -

-QHr RADIO HABANA, F APRIL 68, TEY P.M, & ‘JOHNSON POSTPONED
{1S TRIP. HE CALLED THE CIVIL KIGHTS LEADEKS~-WHO WERE MORE OR
-ESS UNDER CONTROL--TO GO To THE WHITE HOUSE. JOHNSON APPEARED ON
ELEVISION. HE EXPRESSED HIS ANGUISH AND HIS SORROW. HE MADE
INSPIRED COMMENTS ABOUT MARTIN LUTHER KING,. THESE. ACTIONS AND THESE
JORDS HIDE. FEAR OVER THE WAVE OF. JUST. VIOLENCE WHICH IS. STARTING TO
SPREAD THROUGH THE UNITED STATES,"* ayat A TIME WHEN COMPLEX. INTEK-
TATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS MIGHT BE UNDERWAY, UNDER DIFFICULT CONDITIONS,
FHIS NEW CRIME WIDENS THE CHASM WHICH ‘DIVIDES THE PEOPLE OF THE
JNITED STATES AND INCITES THE PEOPLE TO PROMOTE DISTURBANCES WHOSE
7AR“REACHING EFFECTS ARE HARD TO PREDICT.** Sate ASSASSINATION. OF
JARTIN LUTHER KING CONFIRMS THAT THE VIOLENCE OF IMPERIAL AST RACISTS
TS ONLY ANSWERED EFFECTIVELY WITH THE VIOLENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY

STRUGGLE." *

YESTRIBUT LON
Jia TELEPOUCH

OF tevepoucn CRY race Five

aT



13-00000

?
BROWN.’ * ""/WASHINGTON, LFAPRIL,

ao" 7” _s)
. 7

FILE NO -

“
DATE - GO APRIL 1

TO -
INFO -
FROM ~

SUBJECT GARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF THE DEATH OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING, TAI APRIL. 1968
THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF CUBAN HEDIA COVERAGE OF THE MARTIN
LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION DURING THE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN
PREPARED

fe s
Gi GRANGA./HAVANA DAILY NEWSPAPER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF

CUBA/, ¢ APRIL 68, FRONT PAGE - "‘LAST MINUTE NEWS - MARTIN LUTHER

KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U.S.A. ACCORDING TO FIRST REPORTS,

LUTHER KING HAS BEEN SHOT BY A "WHITE WELL~DRESSED YOUNG NALE,**
Sus GRANIA, X APRIL, FRONT PAGE ~ **IWENTY-SEVEN PERSONS

BEEN KILLED IN THE U.S, AS A RESULT OF THE FIGHTING WHICH HAS E

GOING ON SINCE THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, IN WASHING-

TON ALO:

HOUSE AND THE CAPITOL ARE UNDER HEAVY GUAKD,'*

GIVEN./

3 iy
Be GRANMA, ¥ APRIL, LAST PAGE -

LEAFLETS

URGING TE

WASHINGTON



13-00000 a ares ee

TWO

VIOLENT ONES AND THE NON-VIOLENT ONES, IT }

GNG THOSE WHICK ADVOCATE THE USE ACIAL

/CORE/, STUDENT LET COORDINATING COUNITTEE /SNCC/,

MS, BLACK PANTHER PARTY, BLACKSTONE RANGERS, THE ALERT
PATHOL, REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENT /RAM/, THE BLACK GUARDS, THE

DEACONS, AND "THE U.S."°. T

& FOLLOWING NEGRO ORGA

TIONS ARE

MENTIONED ANONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE NON-VIOLENCE - NATIONAL ASSO-

R THE ADVANCEMENT CF COLORED PEOPLE /NAACP/, TONAL

CIATION F
URBAN LEAGUE, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP Con)

s)

7SCLE/.
g. ,
~ SUATTEMPTS ARE

& x B
WY GRANWA, 2 APRIL, LAST PA

ICHAEL FOR THE GUTBREAK OF RACIAL VIOLE

AND WHITE AWERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN.**
5 £ a
~ SSTHE AMERICAN

i. §
lit GRANMA, T APRIL, LAST Pi

fe g
Mit GRANMA, X APRIL, LAST PAGE - ""NARTYRS OF THE

ACION AND RADIO PROGRE

STATIONS/,

12 NOON - BE MISSION TO CUBA

ATION FRONT HAS SENT A

NATIONAL LIBE

ASSASSINATION LEADER, &

KING, THIS NESSAGE SAYS THAT THE CRIME WHICH WAS Ci

FACE

Y SAYING THAT, WITH THE

HAS PEEN THE RULERS

SUR OLL ONTO

Hi



13-00000

LY TO PUT AN END TO ALL THE

TICE WHICH IS FOUND IN THE UNITED STATES, WHICH

NT OF THE OF PEOPLE IN THE

5
RACION, 7 APRIL, REP P.M. - GSSTOKELY CARMICH

CX POWER, SAID = JvE

OURSELVES WiTH

RIFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE STREETS OF THE

CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN REPRISAL FOR KING'S ASSASSIHATION."
RMICHAEL PREDICTED THAT THERE WILL Pe EXECUTIONS IN THE STREETS aS

A RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATICN. +

ALSO PREDICTED THAT THE

VICLENCE WHICH HAS BEEN UNLEASHED BY NEGROES AS A RESULT OF KING'S

LE AS COMPARED TO WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN Al

DEATH WILL BE P CAN

CITIES.**

&
ibe =
Nt RADIO HABANA, A APRIL, YP. aguis /KING'S/ D

ATH SHOWS

ONCE AGAIN THAT THE EXPLOITED MASSES CAN ONLY ANSWER REACTION

VIOLENCE WITH REVOL UTIONARY, ieee:

13.
diir Rapio PROGRESO, Y APRIL, ie Po. UYCARM ICHAEL saqD

DURING A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW THAT “A SERIOUS MISTAKE HAS BEEN MADE

IN ASSAS.

INATING DR, KING BECAUSE HAD BEEN THE LEADER OF A MOVE-
MENT WHICH URGED THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES NOT TO BURN

THE CITIES, NOT TO COMMIT ACTS OF

THIS MEANS THAT IT WILL

EEEN FIRES, SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEATHS AS A RESULT OF THE CRINE

ITED AGAINST DR, KING. NATURALLY, OTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILL

GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDLY SPREAD THR

GH THe CITIES

GY EVIDENT THAT WE

WOT OPENLY REBEL AGAINET

HE INTERVIEW BY SENDING

ARY CUBAN PEO

AND T

PaGE Th



RICO,
INTERV LEW - por. LUT
CIPITATE THE REB
AGAINST ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY

Ite 7 —-
LAK RADIO HABANA, 5 APRIL, YU P.M. A AdTHE EXECUTIVE

OF THE

ZATION

(ADE THE

FOUR

“

7 -
APRIL, WPM. A

ST. FOR THE

ELLION OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES

CT." gd

SECRETARIAT
ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY ORGANI-
/AALAPSO/ SENT A MESSAGE OF CONDOLENCE TO THE SNCC ON THE

NATION OF LUTHER KING,.** ‘THE AALAPSO’S MESSAGE To TK
‘

AMERICAN PACIFIST ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS A AWE BEG YOU TO

EXPRESS TO THE FAMILY OF

GUR

STRUGGLE, AND OUR DE
SkOWS US THAT ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VICLEN

ING GENUINE LIBERATION

AFRO,

TOTAL CONFRONTATION," 3a

KING AND TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS

ARTIN LUTH!

PEST SOHROW OVER HIS BEATH, OUR DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR

P CONVICTION THAT THIS TERR IGLE “WHICH

IS THE ONLY WAY OF ACHIEV-

WILL HELP ST THEN THE

RUGGLE. OF THE
ERICAN PEOPLE WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IN THE DIRECTION OF A
aw"

= a~

1S Ey
Gr RADIO HABANA, 2 APRIL, ¥ Pim. A SSAGUSTIN /GONZALEZ/

MARTINEZ, BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL

FOLLOW

OF THE DAY

- SPECT WHICH IS DUE To

os
tADIO HABANA, 2 APR

A TAN CHURCH LN OL

INTERV


13-00000

TELE POUCH

M THEIR IBLE ASMY." .

£ fe S
RADIO LIBERACION, 7 APRIL, A P.M. & EDITORIAL COMMENTS

THE NON-VIOLENT LINE WHICH WAS ADVOCATED BY LUTHER KING,

SAYING THAT THIS LINE WAS INOPERATI

{TIN LUTHER KiNG Did NOT

PREACH VIOLENCE BUT HE WAS THE VICTIM OF VIOLENCE. HE DID NOT

UN SH VIOLENCE BUT VIOLENCE MOWED HIM DOWN,'*

iv, Ss $39 -

Skt RADIO HABANA, 7 APRIL 68, FZ P.M. & ‘JOHNSON POSTPONED
HIS TRIP. HE CALLED THE CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS--WHO WERE MORE OR
LESS UNDER CONTROL--TO GO TO THE WHITE HOUSE, JOHNSON APPEARED ON
TELEVISION. HE EXPRESSED HIS ANGUISH AND HIS SORROW. HE MADE
INSPIRED COMMENTS ABOUT MARTIN LUTHER KING, THESE ACTIONS AND THESE
WORDS HIDE FESR OVER THE WAVE OF JUST VIOLENCE WHICH IS STARTING TO

Ss

EAD THROUGH THE UNITED STATES,** yar A TIME WHEN COMPLEX INTER-
NATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS MIGHT BE UNDERWAY, UNDER DIFFICULT ConDITionS,
THIS NEW CRIME WIDENS THE CHASM WHICH DIVIDES THE PEOPLE OF THE
UNITED STATES AND INCITES THE PEOPLE TO PROMOTE DISTURBANCES WHOSE
FAR-REACHING EFFECTS ARE HARD TC PREDICT.°* UAT HE ASSASSINATION OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING CONFIRMS THAT THE VIOLENCE OF IMPERIALIST RkaACcISTS
IS ONLY ANSWERED EFFECTIVELY WITH THE VIOLENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY

STRUGGLE."*

DISTRIBUTION
VIA TELEPOUCH

TELEPOLCH PAGE FIVE



UFGA+29877

FILE NO ~ NONE

“
DATE * QF APRIL 1968
INDEXING - NONE

MICROFILM = NONE

To ~ CHIEF, WH DIVISION
INFO - CHIEF, WH/COG - CHIEF, WOLIME
FROM ~ CHIEF OF STATION, JMWAVE

SUBJECT -O SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF THE DEATH OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING, TAI APRIL 1968

THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE MARTIN
LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION DURING THE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN
Care BY THE AMOTS-

a GRANMA /HAVANA DAILY a fl OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF
CUBA/ , ¢ APRIL 68, FRONT PAGE ~ ‘Last WINUTE NEWS - MARTIN LUTHER
KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U.S.A, ACCORDING TO FIRST REPORTS,
LUTHER KING HAS Bee SHOT BY A ‘WHITE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MALE."

it GRANNA , A pent, FRONT PAGE - *'TWENTY-SEVEN PERSONS HAVE
BEEN KILLED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE FIGHTING WHICH HAS BEEN
GOING ON SINCE THE ASSASSINATION ‘OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. IN WASHING-
TON ALONE THERE ARE 756 WOUNDED AND 4,186 PERSONS ARRESTED, SNIPERS

CONTINUE TO BE ACTIVE iN DIFFERENT CITIES IN THE i s. THE WHITE

HOUSE AND THE CAPITOL ARE. UNDER HEAVY GUARD.'* /FULL INFORMATION

amen f
3
Ei

; 1
i CRANGA, ¥ APRIL, LAST PAGE
BRONL**

TO RIeMMORD TF

a L MORD TO LIBERATE
(WASHINGTON, APRIL, on
FRENCH REWS AGENCY AMX LeapL ET

URGING THE KEGH

DISTRIBUTED HERE THIS NORM ING

NG

ae PEOPLE oF wasn

TO GO TO RicMMOKD To Lye ERATE

RAP BROWN, ** sere

CALLED ON THE fy
VE FOR RICHIOND ToNoR
POUCH

CADE AND Lea EGROES TO FORM A NuroR-

ROW, NoNGAY,**

PAGE ONE



ELEPOUCH UFGA~29877 PAGE 1¥0
a
4, GRAWIA, F APRIL, LAST PAGE - ARTICLE ENTITLED "" PRINCIPAL
SGRO. ORGANIZATIONS IN THE U.S.°*, BY JUANA CaHKASCO. THE ARTICLE

LYS THAT NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS AKE DIVIDED INTO TWO GR

IPS - THE

JOLENT ONES AND THE NON-VIOLENT ONES, IT MENTIONS THE FOLLOWING

ONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE THE USE OF VIOLENCE = CONC S OF RACIAL

QUALITY /CORE/, STUDENT NON-VIOLENT COOKDINATING COMMLITEE /SNCC/,
LACK NUSLINS, BLACK PANTHER PARTY, BLACKSTONE RANGERS, THE ALERT
ATROL, REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENT “RAMs, THE BLACK GUARDS, THE
EACONS, AND “*THE U.S,°*. THE FOLLOWING NEGRO OKGANIZATIONS ARE
ENTIONED ANONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE NON-VIOLENCE - NATIGNAL ASSO-
IATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEGPLE /NAACP/, NATIONAL
RBAN LEAGUE, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADEKSHIP CONFERENCE

eee

¥ 30

in GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE - JUATTEMPTS ARE BING HADE TO

LANE CARMICHAEL FOR THE OUTBREAK OF RACIAL VIOLENCE IN THE U.S.*

‘ 5 4
Mf GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE - JSKACIAL CLASHES BETWEEN NEGRO

aD MITE AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN.
Oe GRANHA » £ APRIL, LAST PAGE ~ pot He AMERICAN NEGRO PEOPLE.
Sir GRANMA, £ APRIL, LAST PAGE ~- ‘*NARTYRS OF THE NEGRO
STRUGGLE," *
oe RADIO LIBERACION AND RADIO PROGRESO /HAVANA RADIO STATIONS/,

> APRIL, UWP Astis ARD 12 NOON <THE CHIEF OF THE &
1© THE SOUTH VIETNANESE NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT HAS SENT A MESSAGE

O AFRO-AMERICANS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF THE LEADER, MARTIN LUTHER

‘ING. THIS MESSAGE SAYS THAT THE CRIME WHICH WAS COMMITTED AGAINST

2

ARTIN LUTE SKS THE EVIL FACE OF THE RULERS AND RACISTS

* "*THE MESSAGE OF THE VIETN, SE MISSION IN

OF THE UNITED

AVANA ENDS G THAT, WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING,

‘LL THAT NAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED BY THE RULERS OF THE UNITED STATES

ONTO THE FLAMES OF THE STRUGGLE OF AFRG-ANERICAN

9877 P TWO

os)



13-00000

€ SeeYE EPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE THREE
we
‘ND THAT THESE FLAMES AWE RISING VIOLENTLY TO PUF AN END 70 ALL THE

OPPRESSION AND INJUSTICE WHICH IS FOUND IN THE UNITED STATES, WHICK
HINDERS THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE IN THE ENTIRE
SOUNTRY.' “

apr RADIO LIBERACION, Fara, REP P.M, = §ESTOX! LY CARMICHAEL,
HEADER OF BLACK POWER, SAID = ne NEGROES MUST AKM OURSELVES WITH
IFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE STREETS OF THE
TITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN REPRISAL FOR KING'S ASSASSINATION."
CARMICHAEL PREDICTED THAT THERE WILL BE EXECUTIONS IN THE STREETS as
\ RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATION. HE ALSO PREDICTED THAT THE
JLOLENCE WHICH HAS BEEN UNLEASHED BY NEGROES AS A RESULT OF KING'S
XEATH WILL BE PALE AS COMPARED TO WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN AMERICAN

euite ¢ Y .

aeir RADIO HABANA, J APRIL, 37 Poth A SSHIS /KING’S/ DEATH SHOWS
ONCE AGAIN THAT THE EXPLOITED MASSES CAN ONLY ANSWER REACTIONARY
Te WITK REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE . ;

ere RADIO PROGRESO, v APRIL, T4P PM. A i AICARMICHSEL SAID
PURING & TELEPHONE INTERVIEW THAT ‘A SERIOUS MISTAKE HAS BEEN MADE
WW ASSASSINATING DR, KING BECAUSE HE HAD ELEN THE LEADER OF A MOVE~
JENT WHICH URGED THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES NOT TO BURN
{HE CITIES, NOT TO COMMIT ACTS OF VIOLENCE. THIS MEANS THAT 17 WILL

HAEL ADDED -

E 2% TO START AW

SERIOUS INCIDENTS HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN 35 CITiES WHERE THERE HAVE

EEN FIF

» SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEATHS AS A RESULT OF THE CRIME

KING. NATURALLY, GTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILL

MITTED AGAINST DR
AXE PLACE, GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDLY SPREAD THHOUGH THE CITIES

LY REBEL AGAINST

AUSE IT IS ALREADY EVIDENT THAT WE CANROT 0.

MICHAEL ENDED THE INTERVIEW BY SENDING

AFFECTIONATE REGARDS TO THE REYOLUTIGNARY CUBAN PEOPLE AND THEIR

5

a4



13-00000: . sont 5 “hen ta nwa masernson 4 me a

a

a
ELEPOUCH UFGA~! EY PAGE FouR

13, RADIO HABANA, 7 APRIL, Y Polis A JdJUAN /MARL/ BRAS,

SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE MOVEMENT FOR THE INDEPENDENCE GF PUERTO

'1CO,- MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS IN A LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE

INTERVIEW - Aor. LUTHER KING'S ASSASSINATION WILL UNDOUBTEDLY PRE-

JIPITATE THE REBELLION OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES
ear ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY HAVE aa THE OBJECT." d*
7

a RADIO HABANA, 5 APRIL, MU P.M. RASTHE EXECUTIVE. SECRETARIAT

\F THE ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY ORGANI-
ATION /AALAPSO/ SENT A MESSAGE OF CONDOLENCE TO THE SNCC ON THE
iSSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING.*' ‘"'THE AALAPSO'S MESSAGE’ TO THE
iMERICAN PACIFIST ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS A Awe BEG YOU TO
XPRESS TO THE FAMILY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING AND TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS
\UR DEEPEST SORROW OVER HIS DEATH, OUR ‘DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR
sTRUGGLE, AND OUR DEEP CONVICT ION THAT THIS TERRIBLE CRINE--WHICH
sHOWS US THAT. ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE 1S THE ONLY WAY OF ACHIEV~
NG GENUINE LIBERATION--WILL HELP STRENGTHEN THE STRUGGLE OF THE
FRO-AMERICAN PEOPLE WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IW THE DIRECTION OF A

”
OTAL CONFRONTATION." Js

1S ws , a.
QF RADIO HABANA, 7 APRIL, AY P.M. A dTAGUSTIN /GONZALEZ/
ARTINEZ, BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF CUBA, MADE THE FOLLOWING

TATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW = Jmay THE TRAGIC DISARPEARAN
F THIS GREAT LEADER AT LEAST HELP TO SPEED UP THE ARRIVAL OF THE DAY
HEN EVERY MAN IN HIS HAT LON AND IN ALL OTHER NATIONS oe BE TREATED
ITH ye RESPECT WHICH 18 DUE TO THEM AS HeNAl BEINGS.* bs

hen RADIO HABANA, ¥ APRIL, wv PAN. & Udi VERE ND RAFAEL PASTOR,
F THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH. IN LUYANO, HAVANA, MADE THE FOLLOWING

1
TATENENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - JHIS BROTHERS, THE ANERICAN

EGROES, WILL LEARN MUCH FROM HIS DEATH, WE CAN ALMOST ASSURE THaT
DIGWITY AND DECORUM HAS BEEN

AFTER CENTURIES OF LETHSRGY AND



77 PAGE FIVE

AW INVINCIBLE An

THEIR GRAVES AND FOR?

5 bs

AGM RADIO LEBERACION, 7 APRIL, ¥ P.M. A EDITORIAL COWUMENTS

WAS ADVOCATED BY LUT

CRITICIZING THE NON-VIOLENT LINE W
SAYING THAT THIS LINE WAS INOPERATIVE, MARTIN LUTHER KING DID NOT

PREAGN VIOLENCE BUT HE WAS THE VICTIM OF VIOLENCE.

DID NOT
UNLEASH VIOLENCE BUT VIGLENCE MOWED KIM DOWN."*

gut RADIO HABANA, ¥ apa 68, 7 P Pathe & “* JOHNSON POSTPONED
HIS TRIP, HE CALLED THE CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS~-WHO WERE MORE OR
LESS UNDER CONTROL--TO GO TO THE WHITE HOUSE. JOHNSON APPEARED ON
TELEVISION, HE EXPRESSED HIS ANGUISH AND HIS SORROW. HE MADE
INSPIRED COMMENTS ABOUT MARTIN LUTHER KING. THESE ACTIONS AND THESE
WORDS HIDE FEAR OVER THE WAVE OF JUST VIOLENCE WHICH IS STARTING TO
SPREAD THROUGH THE UNITED STATES.'* Ar A TIME WHEN COMPLEX INTER~

NATIONAL Ni

OTIATIONS MIGHT BE UNDERWAY, UNDER DIFFICULT CONDITIONS,
THIS NEW CRIME WIDENS THE CHASM WHICH DIVIDES THE PEGPLE OF THE
UNITED STATES AND INCITES THE PEOPLE TO PROMOTE DISTURBANCES WHOSE
FAR-REACHING EFFECTS ARE HARD TO PREDICT.*" Sat HE ASSASSINATION OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING CONFIRMS THAT THE VIOLENCE OF IMPERIALIST RACISTS
IS ONLY ANSWERED EFFECTIVELY WITH THE VIOLENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY
STRUGGLE.*"

MARK F. EFFIELD ra
DISTRIBUTION

VIA TELEPOUCH

3 A C/WHD

A-29877 PAGE FIVE

|
i



13-00000

1 BO,


Previously

mnicd in toto undey
Daweh for

A. Segregable portions previous Ly¥re

wor BIL) (ha) (AVG)

) Located during the DO appeals review

} Referred to HOO for review by

urther d

iption,

RECOM

) Sustain initial denial in.toto under exemption(s) of
() ADD exemption(s)
( ). DROP exemption(s)

} Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions
exempted under _ of
( ) ADD exenption(s)
() DROP exemption(s)

dy Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

CillD CH3) of FOF :

} Deny document In toto under exemption(s) of

Relegse a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under
} of

soe
he exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following: :

Information Crom a foreign Liaison service

{iformatlon pertaining to a foreign liaisen relationship
Information which would/could identify the source
Informition pertaining to a source

Informatlon pertaining to intelligence methods

Location of CIA overseas installation

Location of unacknowledged domestic installation

@ of CLA employee

ile number

Psew
Cryptonyms
Internal or
Name of F
file number

acy of other individual

ational data
gent

and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

d \- |
te Copa dente



ao TELEPOUCK

sISP NO
“LE WO = A -
MICROFILMED
MATE - AAO
APRA 1968
NDEX ING =

BOC. MICRO. SER,

LLCROFILM = NONE

°
4

CHIEF,

cuir Seay

SUBJECT O sumMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATHENT OF DEATH OF MARTIN

INFO 7

chier ,&

a

OM -

ay)
LUTHER KING, JRe, IAO APRIL 1968

iercrence | - aay

IN ADDITION TO THE SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE
IARTIN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION TRANSMITTED IN REFERENCE, THE

SP

FOLLOWING SUMMARY FOR 8-9 APRIL HAS BEEN FURNISHED BY THe Gay

Gi GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE ONE. ~ JJMOBIL IZATION OF 55,088
ROOPS TO REPRESS THE NEGROES'* A THE ARTICLE REPORTED ALL THE
YESTURBANCES WHICH HAVE OCCURRED IN THE U.S, AS a RESULT OF THE
DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING,

WH GRANWA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A JJWITH THE ASSASSINATION OF
}ARTIN LUTHER KING THE IDEOLOGY OF NON-VIOLENCE HAS DIED'* A AN

iNTERVIEW WITH FLOYD MCKISSICK, NATIONAL DIRECTOR OF THE

5S 0. A AUAL ITY / Ef, SJTHIS S LY MEANS’ Th

{ON“VIOLENCE HAS CEASED AS A MEANS OF FIGHTING, THE PEOPLE

WOT BE TAUGHT TO BE NON-VIOLENT WHILE WE ARE. INVOLVED IN

1 VIOLENT WAR IN VIETNAM, NON-VIOLENCE CANNOT BE PREACHED TO

HE BLACK PEGPLE WHO HAVE TO FACE VIOLENCE EVERY DAY ON THE

THIS WAS SAID IN A TELEPHONE CONVERSA~

MCKISSICK, WHEN ASKED ABOUT

THE

a

d

%

-)



TELEPOUCH CGR Pace Two

AMERICAN NEGRO IS NOT WILLING TO CONTEMPLATE INPASSIBLY THE ASSASSI-

NATION OF OUR LEADERS, OUR HER

SES, AWD OUR PEOPLE.'*

EM GRANMA, GO APRIL, PAGE 3 A ARTICLE BY JUAN MARRERO ENTI-
TLED, JJTHE AMERICAN NEGROES AKE WRITING THEIR FINEST PaGE OF
HEROISM.°* JJAGAINST ALL THAT AND MUCH MORE, THE NEGROES ROSE UP
TODAY IN MORE THAN SIXTY CITIES, AND IT 15 LOGICAL TO EXPECT NEW
PAGES OF HERGISM. STOKELY CARMICHAEL, THE NEGRO LEADER, GAVE THIS
WARNING ONE DAY AFTER THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING - JWHAT
HAPPENED ON THE NIGHT WE. LEARNED OF THE “ASSASSINAT LON OF DR. KING
IS NOTHING COMPARED TO WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN," JJ

RM GRANWA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A JJTHE WIDOW OF LUTHER KING HEADS
THE MARCH IN. MEMPHIS,** THE ARTICLE TELLS ABOUT THE MARCH AND
SHOWS PHOTOGRAPHS OF IT.

TM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST.,- 1 APRIL 7755 AeM./ A JIA TENSE
CALM REIGNS IN THE U.S, BUT IT IS A PRELUDE TO SERIOUS EVENTS.
NATIONAL MOURNING DECREED BY LYNDON JOHNSON FOR YESTERDAY, U APRIL,
MARKS A LESSENING OF DEMONSTRATIONS WHICH ARE EXPECTED TO START UP”
AGAIN AT ANY MOMENT.**

YM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, 1 APRIL /955 A.M./ A JJ JFORWARD
¢ITH BLACK POWER UNTIL CAPITALIST WISERY, THE FUNDAMENTAL CAUSE OF
HUMAN INJUSTICE, IS OVERTHROWN* SAID THE SOCIALIST PARTY OF CHILE
IN A CABLEGRAM SENT TO THE AMERICAN NEGRO LEADER, STOKELY CARMICHAEL,
JN THE OCCASION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING.**

UM RADIO LIBERACION, I APRIL /123@ P.M./ A THIS NEWSCAST
REFERS TO A DEMONSTRATION IN WHICH 200 LATIN AMERICAN, ASIAN, AND
AFRICAN STUDENTS WERE SAID 70 HAVE PARTICIPATED IN FRONT OF THE

JeS. EMBASSY IN WARSAW, POLAND, AS A PROTEST OVER THE DEATH OF

DISTRIBUTION

E POUCH

aos



VIA TELEPOUCH

5 —|
—
agus ercucn

PAGE THREE

Sarerepoucn a) PAGE THREE

8ST

on

/%



DISP Ho -
NG 7
eo
~ 82 APRIL
To =
INFO a
FROM o
SUSJECT O summary OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF DEATH GF MARTIN

oP
LUTHER KING, JR.5 iKo APRIL 1568

REFERENCE -

TA COVER OF THE

IN ADDITION TO THE

MARTIN LUINER KING ASSASSINATION TRANSMITTED IN kk

APRIL 5. BEEN FURNISHED

FOLLOWING SUMMARY FOR

Qi) GRANGA, O APRIL, PAGE ONE - JJNOBILIZATION OF 55,088

HOOPS TO REPRESS THE WECROES** A THE ARTICLE REPORTED ALL THE

Tr

WHICH HAVE OCCURRED IW THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE

MARTIN LUTHER KiNG,

Wh GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A JJWITH THE ASSASSINATION OF

LUTHER KING THE IDEOLOGY GF NON-VIOLENCE HAS DIED'' A Au

INTERVIEW WITH FLOYD MCKISSICK, NATIONAL DIRECTOR OF THE

RACIAL EQUALITY /CORE/, JUTHIS SIMPLY MEANS THAT

NON-VIOLENCE HAS CEASED AS A MEANS OF FIGHTING. THE FEOPLE

NNOT BE TAUGHT TO BE NON-VIOLENT WHILE WE ARE INVOLVED IN

CANNOT BE PRE

A VICLENT WAR IN VIETNAM, NON-VIOLEN HED TO

Y DAY GN TH

Iv A TELEPHONE CORVERSA

ABOUT

TION BETWEES HABANA AND FLOYD MCKISSICK.



13-00000

TELEPOUCH

AMERICAN NEGRO IS NOT WILLING TO CONTEMPLATE

RATION OF OUR LEADERS, OUR OES, AND OUR PECPL.
EM GRANMA, O APRIL, PASE 3 A ARTICLE BY JUAN MARRERO ENTI- i

TLED, JJTHE AMERICAN NEGROES ANE WRITING THEIR FINEST PAGE OF

a

KOES ROSE UP

HEROLSH.'' JUAGAINST ALL THAT AND MUCH HOF
TODAY IN MORE THAN SIXTY CITIES, AND If 15 LOGICAL TO EXPECT KEW
PAGES OF HEROISM. STOKELY CARMICHAEL, THE NEGRO LEADER, GAVE THIS
WARNING ONE DAY AFTER THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING - JWHAT

HAPPENED ON THE NIGHT WE LEARNED OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DR. KING

IS’NOTHING COMPARED TO WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN,” JJ
RM GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A JJTHE WIDOW OF LUTHER KING HEADS
THE MARCH IN MEMPHIS.** THE ARTICLE TELLS ABOUT THE WARCH AND
SHOWS PHOTOGRAPHS OF IT.
TM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, IeAPRIL 7155 A.M./ A JJA TENSE
CALM REIGNS IN THE U.S, BUT IT IS A PHELUDE 16 SERIOUS EVENTS,
NATIONAL MOURNING DECREED BY LYNDON JGHNSON FOR YESTERDAY, U APRIL,
HARKS A LESSENING OF DEMONSTRATIONS WHICH ARE EXPECTED TQ START UP
AGAIN AT ANY MOMENT.**
YM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, I APRIL £955 ALM./ A JJ JFORWARD i
WITH BLACK POWER UNTIL CAPITALIST MISERY, THE FUNDAMENTAL CAUSE OF f

HUMAN INJUSTICE, IS OVERTHROWN* SAID THE SOCIALIST PARTY OF CHILE

IN A CABLEGRAM SENT TO THE AWERICAN NEGRO LEADER, STOKELY CARMICHAEL,
ON THE OCCASION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING.**
UM RADIO LISERACION, L APRIL /1239 P.M./ A THIS NEWSCAST

REFERS TO A DEMONSTRATION IN WHICH 268 LATIN AMERICAN, ASIAN, AND

«AFRICAN STUDENTS WERE SAID TO HA PARTICIPATED IN FRONT OF THE

U.S. EMBASSY IN WARSAW, POLAND, AS A PROT OVER THE DEATH OF

MARTIN LUTHER KiNG,



via

TELE POUCH

TELEPOUCH

TELEPOUCK

PAGE THREE

PAGE THREE



13-00000

ILE NO > NONE
if

i MICROFILMED

ATE = RG APRIL 1968 yea Cae .
APRS 19GB

WDEXING = NONE DOS. MICRO. SER.

[CROFILM = NONE

9

CHIEF, WH DIVISION

NFO - CHIEF, WH/COG + CHIEF, WOLIME

ROM ~ COS, JNWAVE

WBJECT OsuymaRY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF DEATH OF MARTIN

LUTHER KING, JRey "TAO APRIL 1968

EFERENCE - UFGA-29877

IN ADDITION TO THER SUMMARY OF CUBAN WEDIA COVERAGE OF THE a
ARTIN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION TRANSMITTED IN REFERENCE, THE
“OLLOWING SUMMARY FOR 8-9. APRIL HAS BEEN FURNISHED BY THE ANOTS ~ 7
@i GRANMA, 0 APRIL, PAGE ONE - JJNOBILIZAT1ON OF 55,980 my
KOOPS TO REPRESS THE NEGROES'* A THE ARTICLE REPORTED ALL THE a
HISTURBANCES WHICH HAVE OCCURRED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE :

JEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING,
WM GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A JJWITH THE ASSASSIWATION OF

JARTIN LUTHER KING THE IDEOLOGY OF NON-VIOLENCE HAS DIED** A AN

INTERVIEW WITH FLOYD MCKISSICK, NATIONAL DIRECTOR OF THE
DONGRESS OF RACIAL EQUALITY /CORE/, JJTHIS SIMPLY MEANS THAT
!ON“VIOLENCE HAS CEASED AS A MEANS OF FIGHTING, THE PEOPLE

BE TAUGHT TO BE NON-VIOLENT WHILE WE ARE INVOLV In

IN VIETNAM, NON-VIOLENCE CANNOT BE PREACHED TO

HE BLACK PEOPLE WHO HAVE TO FACE VIOLENCE EVERY DAY ON THE

TREETS OF THIS COUNTRY.*' THIS WAS SAID IN A TELEPHONE CONVERSA- ca

EEN RADIO HABANA AND FLOYD MCKISSICK, WHEN ASKED ABOUT THE i
c SSINATION OF KING, MCKISSICK RE- |

E- MAKING NO PREDICTIONS, BUT THE



\MERICAN NEGRO 15 NOT WILLING TO CONTEMPLATE IMPASSIBLY THE ASSASSI-
JATION OF OUR LEADERS, OUR HEROES, AWD OUR PEOPLE.'*
EM GRANMA, 0 APRIL, PAGE 3 A ARTICLE BY JUAN MARKEKO ENT I~

IR FINEST PAGE OF

LED, JJTHE AMERICAN NEGROES ANE WRITING T
ROES ROSE UP

4EROISH.’* JJAGAINST ALL THAT AND MUCH MORE, THE W
ODAY IN MORE THAN SIXTY CITIES, AND 1T 1S LOGICAL TO EXPECT NEW

*AGES OF HEROISM. STOKELY CARMICHAEL, THE NEGRO LEADER, GAVE THIS

fARNING ONE DAY AFTER THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KiNG = J) T
JAPPENED ON THE NIGHT WE-LEARNED OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DR. KING
{S NOTHING COMPARED TO WHAT 1S GOING TO HAPPEN.® JJ

AM GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A JJTHE WIDOW OF LUTHER. KING HEADS
[HE MARCH IN MEMPHIS,"* THE ARTICLE TELLS ABOUT THE MARCH AND
SHOWS PHOTOGRAPHS OF IT.

Tm RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, I APRIL £755 AWM./ A'dJA TENSE
CALM REIGNS IN THE U,S, BUT IT IS A PRELUDE TO SERIOUS EVENTS.
NATIONAL MOURNING DECREED BY LYNDON JOHNSON FOR YESTEKDAY, U APKIL,
iARKS A LESSENING OF DEMONSTRATIONS WHICH ARE EXPECTED TO START UP
AGAIN AT ANY MOMENT.'*

Yt RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, L APRIL 7955 AvMe/ A Jd JFORWARD
4ITH BLACK POWER UNTIL CAPITALIST MISERY, THE FUNDAMENTAL CAUSE OF
HUMAN INJUSTICE, IS OVERTHROWN' SAID THE SOCIALIST PARTY OF CHILE
iN A CABSLEGRAM SENT 10 THE AMERICAN NEGRO LEADER, STOKELY CARMICHAEL ,
ON THE OCCASION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING.*"

UM RADIO LIBERACION, L APRIL /123@ PoM./ A THIS NEWSCAST
HEFERS TO A DEMONSTRAT LON IN WHICH 2@9°LATIN AMERICAN, ASIAN, AND
AFRICAN STUDENTS WERE SAID TQ HAVE PARTICIPATED IN FRONT OF THE
U.S. EMBASSY IN WARSAW, POLAND, AS A PROTEST OVER THE DEATH OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING.

4ARK F. EFFIELD



a

Soe
weRRTELEPOUCH UFGA-2988a PAGE THREE
se

tA TELE POUCH

A C/WID
A C/8HACOS

A C/WOLINE

EMRET TELEPOUCH UFGA~-29884 PAGE THREE
Wgs

po

2



13-00000

| 52s"


LJ Tor SECRET

'S-00008 CLASSIFIED ~ (CJ CONFIDENTIAL

-. fig 3.21
1. Tab@-7/contains Cole. Smwave 20/7 dated 12 APPL.

2. (€) Previously denied in toto under exemption(s) __ of :

(.) Segregable portions previously released; excised portions exempted
under of :

6) Located during the DDO appeals review.

(.} Referred to DDO for review by _

3. Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

4. I RECOMMEND:

(.) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s) of :
() ADD exemption(s) 5
( } DROP exemption(s)

(.) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions
exempted under of .
() ADD exemption(s) — 7
() DROP exemption(s)

() Release additional information with excised portions exempted under
of .

(.) Deny document in toto under exemption(s) of .

$4 Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under
of Folg .

w
4
a
®

exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service
Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship
Information which eaesd/could identify the source
Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods
Location of CIA overseas installation

Location of unacknowledged domestic installation
Name of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym ‘
Cryptonyms

Internai organizational data

Name of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

meeey

LEOTO

6, COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS,

7. During the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

as. Se REE was: .

ntained

fie nl
ized =
ite Cond

SSUELED {SQ CONFIDENTIAL (C] Secret



CleSSIe TO PLE BO ee

“23423504

“49
APPROVED ron eTeABE :
p LH naw (97F

ARG ASTON ( SHED BY THE SPEED WITH WHICH

THESE POSTERS HAVE BEEN PREPARED AND RAILED. GHYCLOPE WAS

RECEIVED IV

POST CEFICE BOX IW WHICH HE RSRRRLLY



13-00000

HATLINGS INCLUDING SMM ITEMS BUT 1
| COMING AND HAVE USUALLY.

SERVICE HIS’ P.O.

MPHLET

TInG Lacal



13-00000

Cad

BANOS OA rare So

FEPROGGE TUN |

wnpex  T}o ees



I Ek ted nian kk: i ian ee tae ad

GF 6X6 a bel

$ oy pap

TRUCOS

EMC TEXT COPY — DO NOT RELEASE



Beret

sg IwcLuDiNe Laso It

HAVE ALWAYS B £ USUALLY

HIS POs

CES MARK, ONLY

ARORIGHT+HaAdY CGRSEN, AT AGY

) “PORT PAYE" IN uP?

=
1S CLEAR THAT IF POSTERS ARRIVED AT LATEST ON At

TQ PREPARE AND MATL

Iu ASSASSInuATION 3& aDVA

KOO

THAT Died

gE

oieaee 8

THR Ake HLSe

gem



13-00000

parame — = Basen a
om Tran eronn a aac





13-00000 : at ©

eo.
|_ Say 322 ZA Gost! .
abG-63 contains CABLE  Tmwave PQQ dated 42 Aon ges

} Previously denied in toto undgr pxpmption(s) _ _ of :

eer HA HA DPE TORALE by 15
A segreyable portipns ProviouslyWelease@r excised portions exempted
under _ bs (2) fh) GB) _.°f Fora:
7
) Located during the DDO appeals review.”
) Referred to DDO for review by __ : ‘

urther description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

RECOMMEND: ©

) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s) of
( ) ADD exemption (s) OO
(.} DROP exemption(s) .

) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under of .
() ADD exemption(s)_ :

aw Release additional information with excised portions exempted under
lu" ai(3) of FOTN -

} Deny document in toto under exemption(s) of .

i
(.) DROP exemption(s) |
|
1

1 \ Release a sanitized. version with excised portions exempted under

of i

he exemptions clted above are being claimed'to protect the following:

) Information frum a foreign liaison service
-) In€ormat lon pertaining toa foreign liaison relationship
}) Information which would/could identify the source
) Information pertaining to a source 5
) Information pertaining to intelligence methods i
} Location of -CIA overseas installation |
*) Location of wnacknowledged domestic installation i
) Name of CIA employee
) File number
) Pseudonym
AL CryptonymS
2§. Internal organizational data
} Name of FBI agent
) FBI file number
} Privacy of other individual
} OTHER

OMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

classification review, this document which was marked
was: . .

ind 1026 nz tdendyal

pne't i
OLZL79 F



woex €) ves O no ———_———

CLASSIFY TO FILE NOW

RRER TO FILE NO,

Ce ae
AD Ae SOS ST

DIRECTOR
mn

IN CONNECTION WITH CUBAN NG Soe paige POWER

POSTERS REPORTED 1 apres SEE ALSO“SHIPMENT ON

7 REPEAT 7 APRIL (1.Ee, S.DAYS AFTER DR KING": KING'S ASSASSINA~

“ TLON) MENT LONED A

BT

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date nesehabl a 63



7 BPe

PLONE.
epee

Poe

"BT



73

fy
cLasgiee ‘ro



¥3-00000

Sa>
aoe wy
|



T3OPQMA:LasSLELED |, [X) CONF ADENLLAL + > Lp Sbtker

{J FOP SECRET

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

zs 90377
t Lab fl sbacontains CABLE TmudAVE Boog dated (Apr oo

() Previously denied’ in toto under exemption(s)

©)

QQ Located during the DDO appeals review.

(.) Referred to DDO for review by

Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

Reewtiee doing Ql ppt Pewee

I RECOMME:

+(.) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s) of :
( ) ADD exemption(s) 5 ~—
(.) DROP exemption(s)”. ° ‘ ‘
(} Sustain initial release of sanitized, version with excised portions
we 8 npted under
¢ -
¢ oe

(.) Release additional information with excised portions exempted under
of .

der exemption(s) ___ of

(.) Deny docunent in toto

64 Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under
(BD GAB °F ee

e being claimed to protect the

lowi

The exemptions cited above

ation from a foreign liaison service
Information pertaining to a foreign Liaison relationship
Information which, would/could identify the source
Information pertaining to a source
Information pertaining to intelligence methods
of CIA overseas installation

unacknowledged domestic installation
of CIA employee -

Inf.

ere,

udouyn
tonymS
Internal organizational data
of FBY agent
fle numb

: individual

woe

SPECTAL INSTRU

this document which was marked

1390 CONFIDENTIAL


ome
an,

ANIA EWN

ear

go | cuss roe

0 ALE WO.

—_l—-

‘APPROVED FOR RELEASE
7

pate 2 Lreedn fone

one


rt

1, peion (Otis SEND

is

1° cuassisy ro te no
2 | ene

Ske Lie OQ RET. tO prance f)
: Z “te wovtger | ;

ON H&S HaD-AMOTS PREPARE Two. SUMMARIES OF | ie :
E COVERAGE OF MARTIN LUTHER. KING KING: 5 ASSASSINATION
ESULTANT: DISTURBANCES’ THROUGH 9-APRIL SENT TELEPOUCH AS.
SAND: UFGASZ 9884, WE WILL iow DISCONTINUE THIS
UNLESS: “THERE ‘IS, & CONTINUED Has: DESIRE TO RECEIVE IT.

7

= DO NOT. RELEASE

CROSS FILE COPK FOR. |

| gon CR ay hee

BO NOT DESTROY

Downgraded. tt
‘by-autho:

Sie Meet LEB

. Coa


13-00000



EM 224
> @sy contains Craze ata) LQ dated {5 Ape 1428-

) Previously denied in toto under cxemption(s) __ of

7
f Segregable portions prgvipusly_ released; excised portions exempted
under (BYCN) (hie) Thilo) of Fo)A
w7 J
) Located during the DDO appeals review,
) Referred to DDO for review by . .

cther description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc

RECOMMEND:

) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s) of

() ADD exemption (s)
() DROP exemption(s) 7 .

) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions
exempted under of >
() ADD exemptions e 5

(.) DROP exemption(s) 5

-& Release pdditional.information with excised portions exempted under
(sin £2) tier of 30/9.

). Deny document In-toto- under exemption (s) of

) Release a sanitized version with ‘excised portions exempted under
Me : . :

1e exemptions cited “above are being claimed to protect the following:

\f Privacy of other individual S

TA deny

) Information from a Coreign liaison service
{nEormatlon pertaining, to a foreign 1iaison relationship
Information which asemsie@/could identify the source
Information pertaining to a source
Information pertaining to intelligence methods

File number,
Pseudonym

Cryptonyms

Internal organizational: data
Name of FBI agent

FBI £ile number

)

3

4 .
Location§S of CIA overseas installations
Location © of unacknowledged domestic installation

} Name ‘of CIA employee 7

g gd : ye

3 Ok

)

)

) OTHER

MMENTS and/or.

PECIAL INSTRUCTION:
Ngteile
Dire Acectecdona
CS ast

x

i
i
\



rac Oeerro-

ad a en”

i “p DIRECTOR as26o *# )
LoL american LVOLVEMENT IN ANTI -VIETHAN WAR
SMITIES IN WEST BERLIN Has CONTINUED SINCE REF A.
forns OF us CAMPAIGN ‘couTt UE TO CARRY out . : :

i
R "ACTION HIGHT LIFE, ENTERING GI-BARS ABD | c . 4
{
|
|

ne

sine our LEAFLETS ENCOURAGING AND OFFERING |. ° yb
‘ysrance FoR DESERT ION, CAMPAIGN MENBERS CITE atk |
eat ive” RESUCSTS IN FACT THAT GI's WILLING TD |v: i
‘s WITH THEM AND TO PASS LEAFLETS on TO OTHER
LRERS. CANPAIGN HAS POINTED oUr TO Non=amsRrcan APPROVED FOR RELEASE
CIPANTS INTERESTED IN “ACT iON” THAT THEY MAY D

CONTACT SOLDIERS THROUGH US ARMY'S, COMMUNITY

GMLONS OFFICE



13-G0000

ov Clee Clare Prive Om

Biassiny 10 Me Ho

Pio.” OTHER RELATED US CAMPAIGN PLANS “INCLUDED

TING WITH LOCAL FULBRIGHT “SCHOLARS “IN HOPE ‘OF
af cearinseeeer- a ease CE a
& OACHING THEM ABOUT VIETNAM WAR, THE POLITICAL

GUATION IN BERLIN, DRAFT AND FULBRIGHT PROGRAM
tt

5 LF. IT IS NOT KNOWN WHETHER THIS MEETING EVER
E.

PLACE. CAMPAIGN IS ALSO PLANNING THEATER
SENING, TENTATIVELY SCHEDULED FoR 20 APRIL, ART

is

ION AND SIMILAR EVENTS, PROCEEDS FROM WHICH

SuPPOSED’TO GO TO VIET CONG.
4 = . *
ef 3. RADICAL LEFT ELEMENT IN BERLIN STAGED

+ opty : 7
} APRIL DEMONSTRATION “MARCH OW RATHAUS SCHOENEBERG
a

JLWAKE OF DR. KING'S ASSASSINATION. IW VIEW OF THE

3SASSINATION ATTEMPT ON LEFTIST STUDENT LEADER

UDI DUTSCKKE ON 11 APRIL, STUDENT ATTENTIONS OVER

'
|
|
1
|
i
i
i
i
|



z

Forat Cons

moc: O ves 0 no

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO,

XORRE TO FILE NOW,

Chner. ro

pesrroy Clic.







ae
a.
ra
Aa

a

a
3)
ia
a
fe
a

F

4

ER A

FURTH:

SNTERED ON

DC

“KEN

VE



cuastiry ro rue No

XREF TO FILE NO..

rue mio Clrerro prance ®}

rae ay, A

Lace nee oe De
CL Bf Speen he det DbCL, DDE, Kf ELE ERY
: : cen, clue ». 15.ire 8 Ww 94216

{
/ 5
BONFDig ial is15512 apr os GiTE BERLIN 2149 (HIBBERT ACTING)

DIRECTOR INFO BONN

RYBAT MHPASHA yy ;
REF A BERLIN 1812 are 79597) »
B DIRECTOR asaso #4
be AMERICAN INVOLVEMENT IN ANTI-VIETNAN WAR
ACTIVITIES IN WEST BERLIN HAS CONTINUED SINCE REF A
MEMBERS OF us CAMPAIGN CONTINUE TO CARRY OUT
THEIR "act fw WIGHT LIFE,” ENTERING GI BARS AND
PASSING our LEAFLETS ENCOURAGING AND OFFERING
ASSISTANCE FOR DESERTLON, (CAMPAIGN MENBERS CITE

“POSITIVE” RESULSTs IN FACT THAT GI'S WILLING TO
TALK WITH THEM AND TO PASS LEAFLETS ON TO OTHER .

SOLDIERS, CAMPAIGN HAS POINTED OUT TO NON~AMERICAN

PARTICIPANTS INTERESTED IN "ACTLON™ THAT THEY MAY

ASO CONTACT SOLDIERS THROUGH US ARMY'S COMMUNITY

RELATLONS OFFICE, US CAMPAIGNERS KEITH CHAMBER! ALN CONFIDENTIAL

a Downgraded to — ti
aND PETER STANDISH WERE INVITED TO SPEAK AT ” by. authority, pf DarB2e
data Moy fae LORY

23 MARCH VIETNAM RALLY AND CHOSE AS THEME “HISTORY

@ AMERICAN INVOLVEMENT IN VIETNAN." THEY FULL TEAT CGP — BO NOT RELEASE
Clone} y

- ce 48D BY)

cf |

|
SeORERT



ASSITIFN MESSAGE. Tors, Cones

Telelai
[elel=

woex Eves i

- gz | ctssney ro rue wo, os
AuRRF 10 FILE NOW —
c | ruemo Oren ro wrancnt] ossrnoy CI sie,
a are:
[Jno cor
: ris. ve

PAGE 2 BERLIN 2149 SCONFIBENAAL .

COORDINATED THEIR REMARKS WITH CAMPAIGN LEADER
FRANCIS FULLER AND MEMBERS DAVID HARRIS AND SAM

WEBER. CHAMBERLAIN ALSO ACCOMPANIED RUDI DUTSCHKE
TO PRAGUE IN LATE MARCH FOR MEETING OF THIRD
CHRISTIAN PEACE CONFERENCE, .

2. OTHER RELATED US CAMPAIGN PLANS “INCLUDED
HEET ING WITH LOCAL FULBRIGHT SCHOLARS. IN HOPE OF
APPROACHING THEM ABOUT ViETWAN WAR, THE POLITICAL
SITUATION IN BERLIN, DRAFT AND FULBRIGHT PROGRAM
SELF. 17 IS NOT KNOWN WHETHER THIS MEETING EVER

TOOK PLACE. CAMPAIGN IS ALSO PLANNING THEATER

_ EVENING, TENTATIVELY SCHEDULED FOR 20 APRIL, ART
AUCTION AND. SIMILAR EVENTS, PROCEEDS FROM WHICH Ve |
ARE SUPPOSED TO Go To viET CONG. :

ENENT IN BERLIN STAGED

3. RADICAL ‘LEFT E.

6 APRIL DEMONSTRATION MARCH ON RATHAUS SCHOENEBERG

IN WAKE OF DR. KING'S ASSASSINATION. IN VIEW OF THE

ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT Off LEFTIST STUDENT LEADER
RUDI DUTSCHKE ON If APRIL, STUDENT ATTENTIONS OVER

no



Ans AEG

teaueo

sin

woe: ves 0 xo

a a ae Teele _ oxsraovC] se. __
fe moan |e Ae
XN.

PAGE 3 BERLIN 2149° ane (BERTIAL : .
WEEKEND CENTERED ON FURTHER ATTACKS ON SPRINGER
PROPERTY AND DEMONSTRATIONS IN DOWNTOWN WEST

C/S Comment: *Reported activities of Americans in anti-Vietnam
activity. .

s4Hgs parti d pating in survey of international
connections of anti-Vietnam war movement in U.S,





13-00000

2.

2 BT $25
‘tab B-GScontains

ere:

R/O dated LS 7 pe tS
(4 Previously denied in toto under exanption(s)GYi} =

ES
(.) Scgregable portions previously released; exeieed portions exempted
under of :

(.) Located during the DDO appeals review.

(.) Referred to DDO for review by _ -

Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

I RECOMMENI

@q{ Sustain initial denial in toto under ae of £0/

( ) ADD exemption(s)
() DROP exemption(s)

( ) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with exci. ec portions
exempted under 7 *

€) ADD exemption(s)

€ ) DROP exemption (s)~

(.) Release additional information with excised portions exempted under
of :

aT —— —— = =

ae ee ae

Deny document in toto under exemption(s)

Co
‘ F . ql F
(.) Release a sanitized version with excised. portions exempted under
: “of F

3

he exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information From a foreign liaison service

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Information which -smeii@/could identify the source

Information pertaining -to,a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location of CIA overseas installation

Location of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonyn 2

Cryptonyns oe
vnal org: tional data ve
of FBI agent

rr file number

Privacy of other individval

OTHER

fa)
is]

NTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

During the QO classification review, this document which was marked
as SECRET owas:

Cy 4 sensitized
(.} @owngraded to

£2 iMPDET
CL BY 6123

DENT TAL

(U] cons

[0] Toe secret



13-00000

ED FOLLOWLWG REPORTS

FRO~ASIAN LATIN

NCAALAPSO) IN HAVANA, DI

JEXSCAN COMMUNISTS LARGE "BLACK

Son, PROTESTING

ING, ATTRIB

VIETUAM.
ot FULL TEXT COPY = DO NOT AELEASE

: 7 CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

paca WAR eseO EE {
SECRET Rane s nee eeor A
SECRET tet





13;00900 UNCLASSIFIED 3 BQ CONFIDENTIAL. |... LL] SECRET;

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

pot." Gap a6 ]
| 1. Tab Q-73contains ane B-<% . dated LE Gow bg
2. Oc Previously denied in toto under exemption(s) UNKWEIR of Fd

(.) Segregable portions previously released; excised portions exempted
under of d

(.) Located during the DDO appeals review.

(.) Referred to DDO for review by :

3. Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.
hn Dette ebee Bed Tera Fa F i On 2K brane (FIP,

4. I RECOMMEND:

( } Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s) of
() ADD exemption(s) ie,
() DROP exemption(s) 5

( ) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions
exempted under of .
() ADD exemption(s) .

(.) DROP exemption(s) :

(.) Release additional information with excised portions exempted under
of

(.} Deny document in toto under exemption(s) of

Od Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under
of Fork.

5. The exemptions cited above are being. claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship
Information which would/could identify the source
Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location of CIA overseas installation

Location of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal organizational data
Name of FBI agent

FBI file number,

Privacy of other individual
OTHER

CLOTTAOKE

6. COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

the DD lassification review, this document which was marked

€CRET was:

ntained

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 612170

([] secret



13-00000 Fi" =

Moonie wae

Investigation uf i

suRsECTs

Ma

{seo an anidentitied

the description aid 1
provid

However, Our, re, Pegentacive

APPROVED FOR RELEASE
Date LY Mle (PPR

&.

ath of F

B-3g

LE APR 1958

fartin Luther King, Junior.

your Tureau representative in Bea. goa
with tosite photogray hs of ‘the gosrected
e : asc

«

omic

pe hs 5


BASIC + QR (in 23087)

PROJECT; None

LIAISON: None

18 April 1968

Distribution:

trig & 1 = % eau of Investigation

f

er oF s2fea.



tonne =
* B-3F
18 APR 1968

Investiqation of teath of Martin Luther king, Junior.

tative in Nexico City provided
esite photographs of the suspected
ed for a check against
tes in mexico City

1. Your Bureau re rese
our representative with o
fis~ kabler of Martin Luther King, Jr, an
‘ visitors to the goviet and Culian fabas
curing the recent months,

2. checks for persons aprearing to resem the composite
photograghs were negative at both Gnbassiés, Gn 30 January

1928 an unidentified white male visited the diet Gabassy but
the description did not Fit either the composite photegrarh or
the description provided by your Bureau representative.

However, our representative 2 copies of the photograyhs

to your Bureau. reyresentative with the notation that he did not.
appear to, be idertical with the Bureau suspect. Our representa-
tive further: stipulated of the rhotegrarhs in en
investigation should »: reveal thet the photogravhs were made
in Mexico er by this ¢ffice.



SHeRiAmy i
oa
i
i BASIC : Mexico City 5247 (IN 93097) i
PROJECT: None i
LIAISON: None
WH/1/Charles M. Bounds; jb F

i8 April 1968

Distribution:
orig & 1 - Federal Bureau of Investigation
2 = Cl/ors/Lo : . i
1 = WH/1/Chrono i
1 = C/B/FL

RY - OF BARB.

me



¥8:00000""" .
i



SPP CONFLDENTLAL LJ.SetKEL Lj Tov: Secrer:.

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

ae
Oe 327 _

1, Tab G-7y contains )77 sero B- 77 sdated AF Opus 6 F.

2. 0 Previously denied in toto under exemption (s) (LINLIRH LYfé) of Fogg.

() Segregable portions previously released; excised portions exempted
under of .

( ) Located during the DDO appeals review.

(.) Referred to DDO for review by .

3. Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.
Le downed Wa oleo Aadausl 1 ETA ty Ob BE oe a Siew 72,

T RECOMMEND:

(.) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s) of
() ADD exemption(s) Sa
(.} DROP exemption(s)"____-

Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions
exempted under of 5

() ADD exemption(s)
(.) DROP exemption (s)

Release additional information with excised portions exempted under
of

Deny document in toto under exemption(s) of .

Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under
(oY3) ave) of Foi :

exemptions cited above are being.claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Information. which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location of CIA overseas installation

Location of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal organizational data

Name of FBI agent

FBI file number,

4 Privacy of other individual
) OTHER

eee

ZIOCICLE,

6. COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

7. During the DDO classification review, this document which was marked
4S. was: * .

) maintained
(} classified to
( ) declassified
©).

desensitized

(PR downgraded to ord heute

£2 IMPDET
CL BY 012170

a CONFIDENTIAL

sé

SECRET



: [oo B-97.
ae ; : : 25 AER Mg

SUBJEC?: Investigation of Death of Martin Luther King, Jr.

1.
13€3 which
had pa.

passed. to your Jw resentati gs noted in our 18
AéprLl memo, the: were passed to your. Bureau repre-
ééntative with the notation that they did not appear to be
identical with th a The Subject of the
attached photos wag “described as 22-27 years of-ege, approxi-
mately S“£¢ct 9 dnehes to 5 feet 11- inches in height, weight,
aperoxihately 175. Sounds, dight brown heir, and slightly

a : - APPROVED FOR RELEASE
OA, date HUA 778.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Dats LY eee 9 7E

wake Ms

|

abide’


a

%

of Investigation



13-00000:

B97
ALE Eg

SUBJECT: Investigation of Death of Martin Luther King, Jx.

1. &eference is made to our memorandum of 19 Ayril
19€8 which advised that our representative in Mexico City
had passed copies of photographs of an unidentified *merican
who Visited the Soviet Eubassy in Mexico City.

2, - forwarded herewith are copies of the phutograzhs
passed to your Bureau representative. 2s noted in our 18
- Apeil memo, these photos were passed to your Bureau repre-

sentative with the notation that they did not appear to be he

- identical with the Bureau's suspect. The Subject-of the

attached photos was described as 22-27 years of age, approxi~ |
mately $ £ct 9 inches to 5 feet 11 inches in height, weight, i
approximately 175 pounds, Light brown hair, and slightly !
ruddy complexion. © |

3. Ag noted in our, 18‘ spril memorandum the photographs i
may be used in the course of an investigation so long as it, {

is not connected in any way with this Office, and it is not
revealed that the photographs were made in Mexico.

Downgraded to 73
date.

AS SICATON REVIEW FAL OT gery bc
fponnueren on

- OY ARYRA - |
=



BASIC |: HMMA-34503
PROJECT: LIONION
“25 april 1968
Wi/1/Charles-N. Bounds fb _

“‘Distributioni

orig &l~ reaeral. Bureau of eee
pve 2) a: WH/1/Chrono |.

CONFIDENTIAL —





si
Riegel
PRE







PTS pe coo pe





13-00000



13-00000

{JJ top secret

Tab 32 contains Zhaae a Youglee DEI dated 2 SGped seg

. () Previously denied in toto under exemption(s) of

(.) Segregable portions previously released; excised portions exempted
under of :

G4 Located during the DDO appeals review.

(.) Referred to DDO for review by 7

3. Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc

1. 1 RECOMMEND: Z@chestee ons TH

(.) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s) of :
) ADD exemption(s) a
(.) DROP exemption (s) :

(.) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions
exempted under of 7
(.) ADD exemption(s)
() DROP exemption (s) :

(.) Release additional information with excised portions exempted under
of A

(.) Deny document in toto under exemption(s) of :

( ) Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under
of . -

3. Th

o

exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service
Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship
Information which would/could identify the source
Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location of CIA overseas installation

Location of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal organizational data

Name of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

>’. COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

". During the DDO classification review, this document which was marked
as Ue hors. an was: + .

af maintained

} classified to
¢ declassified
( ) desensitized
id

} downgraded to

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 012170

(4 uncLassIFIED ([] CONFIDENTIAL (1) SECRET (1 Top sEcRET


13-00000

» "THERE 1s Just No CONNECTION. HE’ DOESN'T EVEN LOOK LIKE

TOP SECRET SECRET : CONFIDENTIAL UNCLASSIFIED.

PRESS ITEPA FOR THE DC!

OSE

C/OPSCEN : 7
INDICO

cspo

SAVAT

9s

mea

1s : So
KING~ SUSPECT (TORS 7)

; NEXICAM AUTHORITIES QUESTIONED TODAY A U.S.

THEY SAID RESERBLES THE NAN WANTAD ON A CHARCF “OF SLAYING

OF DR, NARTIN LUTHER KING JRe, THEN RELEASED HIM WITHOUT PRESSING

ANY CHARCESS ° oe |

DANIEL DAVID KENNEDY OF BALTIMORE, WHO.SALD KE WAS ON A WALKING
TOUR OF THE STATE OF SONORA, DENIED Any CONNECTION WITH KING'S
DEATH. AN FBI. AGENT IDENTEETED ONLY AS MR. SMIT!, SATD THERF
WAS NO RESEMBLANCE BETHE KENNEDY AND THE SUSPECT} JAMES. EARLY
RAY R € TO POLICE IN THE CITY OF HERWOSILLO>

tr ROBE: FLETCHER OF THE JUDICIAL POLICE IN EARORCA, SONORA,
HAD’ TAKEN EDY INTO cusTODY FROM A CABORCA KOTEL.
IN BALTIMORE, KENNEDY'S MOTHER, PEARK E. KENNEDY,USAID,

HIN RAY.
“czitosags “4/25

Comment:

oo eb 3

These comments rept

ative reaction of the Office

of Conenr Intettien sottached item. from the news services,


#8*00000

OE Ee eS



a eel

DBLe contains Dag FT MEMS. - Mow dated 26 Agr. 1468.

APPEALS REVIEW F

) Previously denied in toto undey gxemption(s) | : of a
eaabtp norton ag, Ot beet a agen fy TBS
(ha) of Fola . ai
) Located ED ae DDO appeals review. ' :
) Referred to DDO for review by __- ; i
irther d ription, identification, comment sy.and/or referrals, etc. |

0-2 2 Lap te . s .
wel Nabe Forma ALL Ba rine, Cea)
RECOMMEND: © . ro

} Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s)
( } ADD exemption (s) D
() DROP exemption(s) i

Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions ©
exempted under c of 5

() ADD exemption(s) —

( ) DROP exemptiun(s) .

of .

} Deny document in toto under exemption(s) rae of

fai Release a sanitized version ea excised portions sxenpted under:

SS ik 7,

he exemptions cited above aré being claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service
Informatlon pertaining to a foreign liaison -relationship
Information which would/could identify the .source ° |
Information pertaining to a source ee
Informat Lon .pertaining to intelligence. methods iy
ocatlon of CIA overseas installation

Location of unacknowledged domestic installation
Name of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym : ote G
Cryptonym

Internal organizational data

Name of FBI agent

FBI file. number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

SMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

tring the DDO classification review, Gee document: which was marked

USECRET _ was:

J H2 Vepner
Ch BY OL2L70



_KING ASSASSINATION AND .USIB

DC | .

A. Gencral

lL

when, to. what. Génatry-of

méans,and route? ©

Is there any indicetion that Ray Bad been issued a,
U.S, passport ‘wider his “true name or any of hts

o. 95 9 aliases? |
[APPROVED “FOR RELEASE



‘Ye there any indication thst Ray had: any connection
with dny foreign intelligence dervice? If so, ‘please
provide ‘al! yorsible detdils.
is there “og indication that! ‘Ray had “any coanection
with foteigaess .in the. Uh ited States, sapeciatty.

Cubans aed Sevicta?”

Hae the FBi ideutified/ar Ray's closeifriends or
associates? — a

2. Have any cobtacts made by Ray in m Mestico sda

October/November 1967 been identifi ae

1B. If any accomplices, associates, or’ coutacts ‘have

been identified, ane any of thect Cbmuuunists or

‘associated with Comtuinists, foréign officials, or

foreign intelligence ‘services?

Les aah! otis



‘heWw detérthined whether or moi ‘this perso’ is

\. possibly identical with Ray?



DRAFT . 26 April-1968

5 KING ASSASSINATION AND _USIB *y

DCI:

A. General:

B. Specific:

i 1, ‘Is there’ any indication that Ray'has left the

USA?

2. If so, when, to what country 6r area, and by. what

means and route?

3. Ie there any indication that ‘Ray had in the past

gE He oe
travelléd outside the United States. other than the

October =\November 1967 tripto Mexicovas “Galt?
4. “Is there any indication that Ray Had ‘been issued a

U.S. (passport under bis true name or any of his

Downgrade ol NEN aliases a
ss ee mien



5. Is.there ‘any-indication‘that ‘Ray had: 7 connection
-with any-foreiga intelligence ‘service? “If-so, “please
provide all possible details. °

6. Is tere any*indication. that Ray shad -any conmection”

with foréigners \in'the United States, ‘especially

Cubans and Soviets?

80, shave vany ‘been identified?

1 Has the F: £5

Tidentified/o

associates?

13, If any accomplices, associate:

“br contacts. have

m. Communists .or
associated ‘with Communists, foreign officials, or

foreign intelligence services?



15.

1.

Ww

‘King?

If eo, ‘is ‘there ‘any-indication that Communists or
, ei : 3 ey

a foreign:power were involved? =.

Has it been possible to recover and trace the origin

of any'of ‘the $20 bills ‘used by Ray to purchase the

‘rifle and make-other payments?

On 19 Ap#il 1968 CIA furnished toithe FBI photographs

taken‘in ‘October 1967 at ae Ciiban:Embassy in‘Mexico
City of ansriiaown individual resembling Ray. “Has ° .
the’ FBI dekefthined whether ‘or-not this pereon is

\ possibly tdentical with Ray?,

ny



13-00000



13-00000 .
APPEALS REVIEW FORM

. - 5 a
Se 230. . of
eG-if contains pss pa Te W. OCEPA- J0F date

Pf wate (2)
¥ Previously denied in toto under exemption(s) be
ames

) Segregable portions previously released; excised portions exempted
under of _.

) Located during the DDO appeals review.

) Referred to DDO for review by _ .

trther description, identification, comnents, and/or referrals, etc.

RECOMMEND: °
) Sustain initial denial. in toto under exemption(s) of
(-) ADD exemption (s) TT oo
() DROP exemption(s) , 2 ft
) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions
exempted under of :
() ADD exempt ion(s) 7

( ) DRoP exemption(s) 5

Release additional information with excised portions exempted under
of .

Deny document in Loto under exemption(s) of

)
>Q Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under
4 é of FOR. .

he exemptions clted above are being claimed to protect the following:
a foreign: liaison. service

ining to a foreign liaison relationship
‘RB/could identify the source

) ation Cram
») atlon pert
SQ} Intormation which
} Informution pertaining to a source
$g Information pertaining to intelligence methods
S{ Locations of CIA overseas installations

2

)
8

|
|
|
|
|
|
|

Location of unacknowledged-domestic installation
Name o£ CIA employee w)

File number . : oA
Pseudonyms, : )

Cryptonym S$ a
) Internal organizational data 7

>) Name of FBU agent

>) FBI £ile number

4 Privacy of other individuals
OTHER «

turing the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

is SFeweeT

2 .MPOnT
Ch BY 012170

BORE

‘iret ema Sem tenrentnenre ert

te Rbrcurtnrs rr ag bobcat (eel to

} \
a.

BR ve


Agr

20°) We calk your“attention to the attached clipping from

inde which xeports on a press Conference held
bead Of the Intexnational Atfairs department

of SE
held at La Mutnakite‘on' 29‘ April and.to.be addressed Dy
Past ———————
Attachments: 2 : S :

cd i ama _(u/s/e) =

/COSTINGED.--/

the 24 april Be i



+ CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

yl

;
:
dee



13-00060...

eV goge *

BMORY OF
RSV. DR. MARTIN LUTHSR KING c

RICAN COMMUNITY SERVICES TN

OER - HOLDER OF THE NOBEL PRACES PRIZE
BA

CALL TO UCRSHIP - The Rev. Robert A. Spencer ~ American Church

Prayer of Invocation

Phe Lora's Prayor

PRIL 1968

EYMW Mo, 429 "For All the Saints" (vrs, 1-5) Sino Nox
PROCLAMATION OF THE Pi
OF THE UNITED STATE
OLD TESTAMENT LESSONS ~ Canon James McNamee - American Cathedral
Psaim 90 '
Daniel 3:16-25 :

PRAYERS - Dean Sturgis Riddle ~ American Cathedral
FRENCH CHURCES:

SSLDENT The Hons Yoodrure
Chargé d'Affaire ~ U.

MESSAGES FROM THE
“fhe Rev. Dr. Charles Westphal ~ F

deration Protestante de France
Mgsx. Julien Gouet - Roman Catholic Diocese of Paris
-Pastor Henri. Vincent- Eglise Baptiste de France

NOW TESTAMENT LESSONS ~The Rev. Dr, Clayton B. Williams,

* Pastor Emeritus - American Church

“Romans 8:31-39
Matthew '10:24-39 7

SUTHEN ~ The Choir 5 .
"Peal of Penitence" From King David by Arthur Honegger

.(Zercy on me, O Lord; pity, according. to thy great compas—
sion. .Wipe away my transgression; cleanse me usito the depth
of my iniquity..Ir sin was I conceived, In evil was £

porn. fmd thou wouldst have ‘a pure soul? I have sinned.
Thou hast taught me thy wisdom, anc I have failed in my weak-
. mess,. Mercy on me, 0 Lord.”) :
4

TRIBUTE TO DR, KING ~ Mrs, Carline Polite ~ American futho:

FROM AN ADDRESS BY DR. KING - Washington, D.C., Aug. 28, 1963, -
Read by Mr. Neville Aurelius ~ Actor

PRAYERS ~ The. Rev, Martin v.B. Sargent ~ American Church

HXMN - "We Shall Overcome" Negro’ Spiritual

Ve shallovercome, we shall overcome,
We shall overcome some day.

Ch, deep in my heart I do believe . .
That we shall overcome someday. 3

We shall live in peace, we shall live in peace, cae

de shall live in peace some day.
Oh, deep in my heart I do believe

That we shall live in peace some day.
shall brothers be, we shall brothers be,
shall brothers be some dey.

Ob, ecep an my heart I do believe

That we shall brothers be some day,

RECESSIONAL ~ The 23rd Psalm

**** & book of condolences is in the chapel to your right
for those who wish to sign it.

i
i
i



ores €a pi
routes €
Tornie),
ace avec’ la pols
niet, Gull
seene Kor



> CaReE, Yomsd; Ghiee, HOR Bivish
Cnief of Station, London.

a
2, in the ‘Black comity ini Paris is indicated by the
prominént place accorded hex in the memorial sexvice for Dre
Kings. (Sae ndex separate: cover attachment 1). Needless to say.
this xendérs sll the: more ‘pressing an early decision on the
proposal contained in Reference-

LMe gall your’ ‘attention to the attached clipping from

the 28 3 a ape ba ode Le Monde which reports oma press ¢onference held

. by James Poreran, wan, head of, the: International Affairs department
i of SNCC,' to anpSunce a meeting supporting Black Powex_to be

L held at Tia Butalite’on 29’ April and to be ad@rassed By Jean

fy Baul Sartre. QREEOTO/I told RODIGAST that theze had been some

——— +s

fo Attachments: 2. Lo Hy eeoy — BO HET REE
t 3 — Memorial Sexvice. Program ;(u/s/c) FULL TENT Gry ~ BS WE
; de clipping h/w_

rs)

/COBEINGED..-./

Distribe:
1 1 pecrwon mes watts

wY. C/soMuSE w/atts

c/29R w/atts
fz:

by authority of
date ae

pate

st Aprit 3968 _

— hase ae

yoo-6-128/3 _

ENN SEE ER ee



STON

» CONTINUATION OF

ee | ORNs owpa-L097

confusion regarding Sartre's willingness te speak. He nad ~
originally accepted to speak at a culturally oriented “gala”
to be held at the Theatre National Pooulaire and there was
a question regarding his willingness to switch to this more
political atmosphere... The “gala”. (see earlier xeport, paragrara |

Gag) is now: being planned for’ some time in Maye.

Wr :

3.. pentiey C of Reference is zoported by. RODIGAST to be
working with Foreman in planning ‘for the Mutualite meeting.
She is ‘so-basy that she has’: temporarily “eft her’ehila with ‘her
mother.,” IDESTITY © of Refereice’is also|said to be working ‘on

ad

Ps



13-00000

RICAN COMMUNITY SERVICE IN MEMORY OF
TRE REV. DR. MARTIN LU!

ADER 2 HOLDER
8 APRIL 1963

The Rev, Robert A, Spencer ~ American Church

PRIZE

CALL TO wt 3
ayer of Invocation
The Lord's Prayer

29
PROCLAMATION OF THE

(ves..1-5) Sine Nox

Thé Hons Yoodruff Waliner,

OF THE UNITSD STATES Chargé d'Affaire ~ U.S, Embassy
OLD TESTAMENT LESSONS - Canon James McNamee: + American Cathedral
Psalm 90 :

Daniel 3: 16-25

RAYERS ~ Dean Sturgis Riddle ~ American Cathedral
MESSAGES FROM THE FRENCH CHURCHES

The Rev. Dr. Charles Westphal ~ Federation Protestante de France.

Mgsr. Julien Gouet - Roman Catholic Diocese of Paris

Pastor Honri Vincent~ Eglise Baptiste de France

WI TESTAMENT LESSONS ~ Thé Rev. Dr. Clayton E..Williams, ; ;

_ Pastor Emeritus ~ American Church

Romans 8134-39

Matthew 10:24-39

ANITA - Tho Choir
"Psalm of Penitence" From King David by Arthur Honegger

(Merey on me, 0 Lord; pity, according to thy great compas-
sion, Wipe away my transgression; cleanse me urito the depth
of my iniquity. Ir: sin was I conceived, In.evil was T
born, And thou wouldst have a pure soul? I have sinned,
Thou hast taught me thy wisdom, and I have failed in my weak-
_ness.. Merey on me, O Lord.")

/raTBuTS TO DR, KING ~ Mrs. Carline Polite ~ American suthor?

FROM AN ADDRESS BY DR. KING - Washington, D.C,, Aug. 28, 1963
Read by Kr. Neville Aurelius ~ Actor

PRAYERS ~- The Rev, Martin v.B. Sargent ~ American Caurch

HYMN ~ "Ye Shall Overcome" Negro’ Spiritual

We shall overcome, we shall overcome,

We shali overcome some day,

Ch, deep in my heart I do believe

That we shall overcome someday, i

We shall. live in peace, we shall live in peace, om
We shall live in peace some day,

Oh, deep in my heart I do believe

That we shall live ‘in peace some day.

Ye shall brothers be, we shall brothers be,

Ye shall »: others be some a:
y heart I do believe 77° 8 tn
brothers ba some day,

The 23rd Psalm

& book of condolences in the chapel ‘to your right
for those who wish to sign it.



a Gu « pouvoir noly» ai
{la Mutuatls is 29

iba
prayers
Faee Je

‘s ‘von le

238 O:
(Gelivornte), & la ou

jeune Noir de dix-sept ans,

cae?



13-00000

es |
y |
¢?
}
|



ADE

> Gem 33/

tab 9-47 contains

() Segregable portions previous
under

LS REVIEW FORM

tein Salli cS Sonasiiiaincietii sisi

( ) Located during the DDO appeals review.

(.) Referred to DDO for review by _

vurther description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

DG. gle he kin e~

@&

( RECOMMEND: *

O9 Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s),

( ) ADD exemption (s)

€) DROP exemption(s)

ALAAIE) (EXE) OF FO ia.

(.) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

of

() ADD exempt iontay

() DROP exemption(s)

of

} Deny document in’ toco under. exemption(s) “~~

of

Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

) Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

of

‘he exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison’ service
Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship
In€orsiation which wswsiial/could identify the source

Infor

ion pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location of unacknowledged domestic installatign

Name of CLA employee

File nunber

Pseudonyms

Cryptonyms

Internal organizational data
Name of FBI agent

FBI file number o
Privacy of other individual
OTHER

*)

)

x

)

tl : :
pA'Location of CIA overseas installation
)

2

)

ec]

<j

to]

)

}

)

)

tring the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

Doel dot aie res

to
oe

ud to Cond ideutsad.

ee it Bahr nes reat

my

bY

NENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS. Shen argh cot be coment

TMPDET

0



PROCESSING ACTION

X_|wanceo for Woon

Ho wiDexING REQUIRED

WOMUSE

om ———— eat

L. Chief of Station, Mexico Cit, = oe

SURE
sgaret RANDALL de MONDRAGON Lyn!

ACTION REQUIRED = REFERENCES ~

RYBAT MHALPHA

Action Required: See paragraph 3.
Reference + HMMW~16296, 5 April 19638 v

1. The following items from LIBIGHT/LIMUD coverage
concern contacts of Subject who are believed to be of interest:

A. “Attachment A: .A letter from’CAW, the os
magazine of Students for a Democratic Society, signed

by Jerry *BODANES, thanks Margaret for her poems

which they are using. The magazine is scheduled to

be off the press around May 10. The letter. clearly

indicates that the SDS was behind the student seizure
of Columbia University. It says, "Right now our
glorious brothers have seized Columbia University--
now named. Mi: iversity--and over which an

N.L.F, flag now flies.’ The others, faculty, deans,

managers, "are all scurrying and speaking pious-~

saying .SDS'-this,~SDS:that, "while we hold five
buildings in joyousness and the most ‘serious ‘

i preparations to resist, our movement has over reached."
Enclosed is a check made out against the account of
the SDS in the Chemical Bank New York Trust Company,

4 2681 Broadway, New York, for the amount of $50, and

signed by Robert M, *SHAPIRO.

Continued

~. Attachments: ‘COPY — DO NOT RELEASE

cas listed (9), n/w ECC TEXt COPY

Y Distribution; cuassnanan t=

Orig & 2 - C/WHD (w/atts - 1 copy each)
2 - C/WOMUSE (w/o atts)

Downgraded to

GT RRR K fol AND WONER OnE

HMMA - 34688

ict
TERFTEATOR,

gana



s

CORSSTRCRTON [SSERTCH GVMGSE AND NUMBER

ECONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH 2.  RONEBE BAT HMMA~34683

B, “Attachment B: Letter from Heiner *BASTIAN
1415 Kearny St., San Francisco, California 94135,
signed Heiner & Celine. BASTIAN has made arrangements
with the editor-in-chief of AKZENT

E to publish works
of revolutionary poets, and he asks Margaret's

help in collecting them, BASTIAN says that he is
going to Berlin about 1 July, to Prague in early
autumn for a "group 47 meeting," and to Cuba in
early November.

C. Attachment C: Letter from Jaime +CARRERO,

Art Department of the Interamerican University in

San German, Puerto Rico. CARRERO has apparently sent
Margaret a series of drawings based on Dr. Martin ~

Luther KING's assassination. He describes them as
“poetic..;but full with guts and disgust." He says

there is a possibility CBS will do a program on ¥
his paintings and the work, in his Art Department. a
CARRERO is going to Columbia University in the

summer of 1968 to study and plans to distribute

El Corno there.

D. Attachment D: Letter from Susan_sSEBMAN,
305 E. 6th St., No. 3, New York, N. ¥. (see HMMA-
33837). She tells of her plans to go to StoneyBrook
on 23 April to speak about the conference for their
2 week of protest activities. She tells Margaret
x that there are three people in Cuba she thinks
i would be interested in "The Hippie Book." They are
Jose *BELL Lara, of.Calle J #556, Vedado, Habana,
who-ts~comiiected with Pensimento Critico; Cuban
psychologist Gustavo #TORROELLA, Ave. 3A #22,
Marianao, Habafa; and Lohania *ARUCA, 99-4722,
MINREX-Direccion de Organismos Internacionales,
Depto. ONU 516, La Habana.

E. Attachment E: Margaret got a letter from
someone associated with CATERPILLAR, He is thinking
of getting married to Marie *BENOIT in England this \
summer when he goes there to work in applied
philosophy. Therefore, he tells Margaret he cannot
go to Cuba as planned,

———~2.._ Att: tachment Ti An interesting development was the

“fact that M et RANDALL received a letter from Moscow from
, Luis _*SUARDIAZ, whose return address was given as the Cuban

i? Eabassy, Moscow, URSS. SUARDIAZ asks for Suzan SHERMAN

H (see paragraph 1D above). SUARDIAZ says he will be working

; a8 Cultural Counselor in the Cuban Embassy and hopes Margaret
\ will keep in toich with him and send him things of interest

\- (in a literary line).

\ 3. In attachment G, Sergio _NONDRAGON, Subject's husband,

\ indicates that Margaret RANDALL is planning to travel to
Venezuels trom 15 to 30 June. It is suggested that Head-
quarters may wish to send Venezuela some background information
on Margaret with suggestions for action by the Venezuela
Station.

Mel" 53 use previous eon



ree | pea eee Sv

GONTINUATION OF =
DISPATCH CONBDETAAL©

[GisPATER SYMAOL AND NUMBER

HMMA ~ 34688

4. Attachments I and I concern a book which Margaret
is hoping to write on Fidel CASTRO. According to Sergio's
letter of April 18, she-is “planning to go to Cuba in October
with a tape recorder, and then, based on these tapes, will
write her book. Sergio suggests Doubleday as a. publisher;

. however, on 25 April 1968 Paula. juire of Pantheon Books

{ . (attachment I) wrote Margaret saying that publisher might be

i interested, It is suggested that WOLINE may have contacts |
in these two publishing houses,

2

> fa)
~~ Y ”
Leet Mh Mpentcdin
for Willard C. CURTIS

PORE RIES

BASRCHAN A

|
i
l



HNN - 346:
: - ; Gee ft.



13-00000

: Ae ref Mole ve i
Bod oP he ok Pa

en 7 vies be

Res are Peuirigena ay Pye

sons pete
cu SOS, $08 A, hl me Ketel Ged Leben d
v. a oo are

Pe fogenence. ene we ost miners: pYperatborn,



13-00000



O0000-EL


: et . a nen teem aetna en
Taree eteenmenemmens mes wemremna natin eerie AOE me en fa a ; :

Salat aie “niece aie meee

latner uastiaa
14ly Rearay sb
dan Francisca
Cale 3453/05

“VIA AIR MAIL
Randald Be
f,



deer waryaret

‘ P’wdula 1rke to cneax you Yor’ your Letter anu the

ULftwo zgswed of “el corno”. che rSon for ay ieve
SeoSanawer 19 aimpl; that d waited for the definite
deursion of the ex.tor in cher of AKZsW?2 gooue
our prajees. 113 aasver 1s © total ayrcene:

Ss] ea very, pleased spout that ena I noge that
Jou are tod. { voula suggest that you coilect
eo “Bout 1o ~15 revolutiouary poets. You snoula
Swrite aa introquction or enatever jou like.
T algo gusgest that you nu not serio should
*Zeoliect az aan, or leox “other” poets. If you on
¥Tgoa'e vant 'to do thet, please arrange something witn sergio,
‘ : Tt-makes things auch ensier for ae jailings, translations,
+ proofs, ‘etc ‘ ae

I need all’tae ueterael in cout 5-6 veexg. If this

Gate wali-put pressure on you, let ae-kaow.

iGe'¥e are goang La abvus 1d Weoxa to gerlin, 4a early ©
mucuan to Prague (group 47 avetinz) and will go co

suo early jnovawser. At cnis cime ve should oo able

Yo visit you. :

: A nhy fssesUNG: In che last analysis, all the trutaa ;
SfOF KarXisa cas de cuameu up in ose sentence: "Yo
“‘rebel 13 justafied."... Accordia_ to tia principle,

Stiga up ano resist, séru cue, Oukld sozielisa,

‘ Wha & Cetin Oe

oe

ath at be ce

‘
A


i
i

a.
rr)
Ey
\,
x
Q
Le

&

jaime Carraro a . :
: partmansto de Arte «=. *
° Universidad Interemericana -
a San German, Puerto Rico 00753 ©
Margaret Randall . vA ;

“Edfeor; Eb CORWO ZMPLMADO >.”
apartado postal 23-5466
MEXICO BF U3

+ y
- t



13-00000;

<" San Germén, Puerto Rico -!
.S Apeal 27, 1968

I've received Rhe group of Cornos #24 and 25,26, Live
also gent & serie. of dravinga based on De. Martin Lather
King's assasination, They.soetic as usual but full with :
guts and disgust. The U3 will gat no where with rhia _
killing of the best of their sona, Your work 1s gettiog
thare-here- where. it is needed, a0 keep up the excellent ~
job you are doing. since I-know that you are working undér ©
2 tremendous presssure. Very soon L'1l send some monoy.
Again I want. ten Cocnos 24- 1f you have any left. Those .
ravings axe getting a.lot of attention especially in
jour youngef generation which’where it counts, ean: :
There is a possibility of CBS doing aprosram of what I am s +
doing in painting and in our Art Department if it comes
2 through I'LL put e werd or tye about el Corno. This 1a
2\. tp happen -Af- you kmow- in the fall,
| Thm going to New York during Aw june- "till wguat-and 1°11
be studying at Columbia, 1°11 take with me some cornos
- to distribute. If you want to give any messages or anything
thet i.can.do ia Now York while there-please-let me-know.



346

METAS

:
i. : .
Joel. on Soplumado ;
: a: eno kama :
mo Spectedo Postal” $139346



<I finally got most of. my things & I have a packet of po

SS Dear Mog, | : os ee .

Just a note--i'm going thie afternoon to StonsyBreok to apealt
about the conference for their week of protest activitii

that I'm sure vas meant for you--it wae the poems Tani& meant
for youssit must have gotten mixed up in my things, In aay case
I'm sending them in s separate. envelop Air-Hail,

‘The Hippie Book te rally: great lookiag, thank you for it, There
are two people in Cuba I think would be vory interested in it

Af you could send shen copies. “Gne vorks on Pensimento Critica
Jose Bell Lara, Calle J $356, Vedado, Habanacehe particularly
wanted information about the Hippies. The other is a Cuban
paychologist Gustavo Terroella, Ave 34 922, Marianao, Habsne,
Who was siso extremely interested in anything concerning hipppiss,
Also Lohania Aruca, 99-4722, MIN3=X-Direccion de Organiszos 2
Internacionales, Depto. HXX ONU 516, La Habana, 08.

It seems now as if I also have a small wleor which showed up on.
last weeks X-raya,. Sut I'm feeling mich, much better now, Jus:
have to try not to get too excited and dar right for avails.

It should go avay 12 I'm good. (but then I dont give myself
agrivarion so its only partly up to me), ‘That was what vas
probably causing all the trouble in Cuba, Anyway, I'm much
better pow. I really have to learn not to take everything so
much to hearte-but fhate a long Lesson,

I'm going to try to get the issue in shape the next few days,
Will give blow by blow descriptions, 0 you'll probably be
hearing from me quite often. Its lousy cold hers again, I think
Spring took a look at New York and decided to go elsewhere!

Love, & more,

Bl E Semen. :



A

; SSIPE vuUuyyt



Tam sorry to have put the Japanese filmmaker on you; my
misjudgement. You were right to send the thing back to me.

Some chariges in my life hive recently re-determined the
summer, and Lam doubtful tonight, really doubtful for the
first time (tho T have been thinking about this for a couple of
‘weeks, “but have not written because Everything was up in the
air), about the trip this summer, The thing is that a more m=" 7.2.
portant thing has come up, namely going to England this fail os
to do some very important work in an applied philosophy called
Scientology (to go "clear as they call i), and doing that I. -
must teach all summer to make money and also to do work on ©
the fall issue of CATERPILLAR, Marie Benoit and Tare “
seriously considaring getting married in England, and while ©,
I coutd put the trip off until next spring, she wants to dothe . i! 3
thing this fall, and.we both want to go clear together. So, :
congidering all of this, I think you should scratch my name,

ope I can go to Cuba later as welll as hope the Cubans "|
will see fit to invite me later (thave heard nothing from any:
Cubans about the trip this summer, 0 9 fgured 18 ls not com-
pletely set).

_ knowledge good! Thear otherwise Awilr ‘write you vera. sf

aon 45 wow .

CATERPILLAR 3/4 3 out, and 3 copies are on their way to you. Bere Foe a

‘Twill maif a box of #2 and mord'3/4s when Iget the time. Sorry tae :

not to hv gent more, but only 3 went out to the contributors this

time and I forgot about you sending ne to Cuba when I mailed ee
ours, |

* Saw Sergio a few weeks ago. ‘Te was nice to see him,

‘We had supper in Chinatown and I gave him a new poem,

A number of people have commented on your prose/puem in :
#3/4. Very impressive is the general word, Thope it looks good
to you when you see the magazine, ios
Thave a great deal new
‘work; are you open to printing more of my poetry in a forthcoming
EL CORNO?

hope you are not upset my change fn plans. This
Sunday is the first day they have been definite, Hoping your +
life goes well these days, — .

affectionatfly, WW) 5



| gs gpe- UU ad con 2) ‘

* : 00000-€1


Somer

F wands ly Bates ate 4
4



13-00000



13-00000:"_



| Supplemental Schedule of come ad
ehtIncome Credit:
sean rn yet, pte in ney

_Atacs thie eiieie to your Ine tat retom, Feria 1040

goon aioe
SM eri ape ce
aa grtn at fe 4 nn =
Poet iote ro iebiealaeietions

(4 Avoid rcted tla yrs ase
2. Heniacanea team eyatees oie, {-

4 rate

ime Tle Ee to a ;
2 at ers roe ort ia eimai nts Tod L
<a 2

TST Tia Ree eh ee RA

nee Suercaes
ceeds Seis oa dl er mance prom eT Cia
Perecolbmetal

==

2 rena
SUMMARY OF [DEPRECIATION
Bona] Oot tow

af
4



<M eoone boven” rcs, far torn at tt wb.

Bat V—-RETREMENT INCOME CREST
AGacaral Robe

Meepar eamen ne chan Renta. Ht oa ue bake Afr ml aed oan Brame | =

Did eat ruc aurenedt fcc in encase of S600 ie ea of amy 16 cakes yong betine 1357? : Cm
eeriraecin yon ay = eran aerate wecoiassnied (sk TT

2 Retirement Income for tauable years = an

0) Fortoupeyere unter a8 yom ates, ro
‘Ent ony ocoame mcaived fram porate aid pecan Untay Susie retirement
System (ng Fed Sta Gavin a) fried On base tino, Fon 1040

(9 For te=payaca 60 yonre of me ar oder ate
Eng tata of ‘and annuities, Intaead ang dividenda included on page bs |
Tine 8, Foren 2 3 ot et oat oF ce

Sone
Crowe oie on panies or antes zntar the Sci Sac Ac ne ak
(0) Tin eet Acad Caan Ober selene om gross inomhae

(8) Eamned income reebved (Dom not apply to persons 72 year of gs of oer
) Taxpeyora under 62 yours of ape ator arbour In sreate of $500 «

7 (a) Teta (od semountn on a B enture A aed BP So
Woe 0) tn om Sat rd ate 8 heh eed dt nen ie
Airroelve Goopetin iB abe ice ig os pe a el a

a hacia santomaapegnanratonee on nee ee
Feaneenepeepr reer ee
ene meee ae
TRESS" Etta ts ct i ath
5 tt Gp Ge open Sra Toyo :
Sao | Re :
ior RE
Siena cee papel marae
ee
‘tego vessssacoegen ten coi marr me
a saree oan pemet tene  eecoeati
rs
stn onic mini meri ts

25 it ln a rade nes

o gern rh (Sm aro pe gn ei
$1,200 esteem. fee whe re
Mtowesuatipetaat er SL200 nial foo + = >
Sear arr 7m ers
(rover $1700 et see $LASD-

srumietinesonoD on nn ens es eee
9 tout (td enous ono odti Nand) LL
@ Unlanea (subtrnct line 5 from line). + DOO COO RIB Me OOOO 000 tr ES
17. Enter here ared online 7%) ot part Aabews, the amount on line 6 ef lina 1, whlehaver 1s smatiwr. i



13-00000

—

(



g :
i :
i
i :
—
i
1
/
} i
{ }
i
}
GR
be ‘
| =
j
! .
} .
. { *
:



HII 4- 34260 \

Yondragén .- Dept. of foreign languagese

" WLLINOES STATE UNIVERSITY.”
NORMAL, [LLINOIS 61761 . . .

margeret randei}

el corn emplumadio oo :
apartado postal 232-546 9° +
mexico 13, def. - wens

ee eae ee eae



13-00000 , . . oe

? ILLINOIS” STATE UNIVERSITY
> Loe gs NORMAL, ILLINOIS, 61781

{logon 3094380211
a,

3  gedban-de Liegarme como seis carta tayas juntas, con fotos, cartas de

Jos chics, noticias, otc. -gracias. léstina del pelo'de saris, esa es una de las rasones

“la (nica razén~ por lo cual ng ma gusta jue los chica pasen la noche en tlelpans por 1a

Ansalubridad, estoy saguro que Los plojos los tonsn al14 mchas veces, on in qué mala
notieia lo del cocks, meg, no te parece que tus anigos -por lo menos dos amigoo= eatin
‘tomando ventajaa de ti? primero fue rodolfo, quien dessparace con 1a grabadora. ya 1a
devolvi6? y ahora otro amigo te choca el. coche y no te Lo pagas dices que te va a costar
ris de mil pesos. te parece justo? a min
gracias por los ocho dSlares de mi nota. cobraste mts 700 pesos de educscisa?
‘estuve en qusva york para las vacacidnes de paictias no gueds con leandre 7 evi. ful tas
bigma montreal y.visité alos bowring. recordams michas cosas, hablanoa horas acerca i
: do thenpos felices, cuando t4 y yo érancs una pareja Mena de amor. alli estaba ime. |
’ |<. Yeonel kearna y otte posta canadiense qua tenes publicado y no recusréo su nonbre, dicen qu ° +t
*, @ tal vex vongan pronto a néxico, en nay. vi a loa peterson. me trataron muy biews te male ||
dan muchos saludos ¥ e9 casi seguro quo Yengan a néxico en el verano. yo les invité a 4
‘Quedarse en 1a casa, ya sea que t6 estés allt o en venemula, siendo tan amigos tuyos
ae: creo que ecth bien. pero ellov alquilarén un apartamanto, por lo menos 1a mayor parts del
ee vi tanbign'a sara blackburn, mjer maravillosa cén quien hice sucha anisted

3 dura igual, ne, parece que teva ae scrtbir, sabes quo ella tions mba influarela en
el mundo literario de la grandes compafifas editoriales. quiero pedirte un favor para ella:
* enviale el libro de 0, pas "corrients alterna” a su domiciito, 50 W. Sst., ny.ce,LOOLL-
Cuesta cono 12.00 pasosc e9 urgente, Eracias, vi tashidn a clayton asbelnan, he nvits a
comer. est& muy bien, mejor que nunca y muy amictoso. conoci tasbién a su sujers que = 6
5 ge parecié wia mijer my triste, aunqu buona, evi  leantre ostda bien. todos en mY :
j fe Gereren muchoy'te siliran y aémiran at como, 1a revista co agota en tren dlaa ex 8
bt. booksaps, andrei codrescu ne dijo quo debes enviar nis ejenplares, tienen en la tien=
dam avise do tulibro, amunclado entre tas Movedadea",
felicidades por tu antologia de poesia revolucionaria, y
erito qu: te piden en londres. parece que tna conpaiifa grants de aqui quiere quo les
haga wa snto\ogia de poesia hisp. ~vos03 a ver, qué sucedié.con mi libro en el fondo?
. [ntunive-sided parses que so va a publicer ni Libro. mala guorte a de eve aprendin de :
brujo ingela y george estin muy bien. parece que 20 anan muchos angela y tolos, sara, i
clayton, eteey cuanee Chie v9 @ cabs en ectubrey dijeron ineedlatarenes’ que
fal vez vao a sor nray fidel castro, o al renga su.anante, sara dijo que ov norda da en=
vidiae han salido m&s cosas del corno en los poriSdicos? enviame algunos recortes,
ana alos chics y cufdate. te mandé una carta hablfndote d= 1s 5 0
“do. tarbién envil ya su nanuserito de Tegreed, y na quowe con wrod eeaees Ne i
esceibone, dine sf crecs quo loa niffos extén resiqgtiendo sicho la separaciéns yon gus
formas abrasoa y adFas0ss Geyace

F el mais



Sb oy

“2

HMA

3

April 25, 2968

Kies Margaret panded.
Apartado Postal 13-546
Hexkco 13,5, DF.

> Doar Mies RendeLit

“ My former oollesgue Sore Dscktory (he sends hor :

: love} hes told me the! recently heard through \ : H .
your husband about your plans for a trip to Guba oO at Poe !

in order to write a book on Castro. IL should be qe . tot .

very interested to know mors about your plhena with ~ LT '

A View towards the pessibility of publishing your Loe

bok and hope you'tt be able tc write mo.

. Inoidentsliy, we sre about to publish Jose Yglesiants
In tha Fist of the Revolution: Life in a Cuban OG

Country rom. i thought you'd be Interested to read
%% and have sent you a copy wider separate cover.

Yours sincerely,

Phitdp



13-00000 ..


13-00000



13-( 00000:

TA APPEALS I

saat 333 ee
Tab Qase contains MEmo oe eT. 19 eet i oe

€ ) Previously denied in toto under gxemp
VY) Segregable portjons Previa} T actearolttee Renin aileron ys
under iv 3 er
_ _f4 lar

( ) Located during the DDO appeals review.

FORM ~

i
i
i

() Referred to DDO for review by 6

kurther description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

1 RECOMMEND: *

(.) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s) of:
( } ADD exemption (s) nae? 6) Geass
( ) DROP exemption(s) .

>» QQ Sustain initial sanitized version with excised portions
exempted under 2) of a Lie
(/) ADD. exempt iontaT* ;
€.) DROP exemprion(s) (ANT

( ) Reléase additional information with excised portions exempted under
“of Fi
(€ ) Deny document in toto under exemption(s) of .
(.] Release a sanitizedversion with excised portions exempted under
fe of os i
- 7

The exemptions clted above are being claimed to protect the following:

foreign liaison service
pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship
Information which would/could identify the source
Information purtaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location of. CIA overseas installation

Location of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name o€ CLA employee

File number) 7e-—1—
Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internai orgunizational data
Name of FBI agent

FBU file number

Privacy of other individual
OTHER

C)
()
C.)
()
{)
oY
()
G3
()
{)
i)
()
)

CIAL INSTRUCTION

‘uring the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

ss _ secreT | Was:

Sa

IMPORT
WY GL2470



19 SEP 1968

% SUBJECT: Stokely. CARMICHAEL

1. Attached is a copy of an article appearing in

the 9-15 May 1968 issue of Clarte, weekly newspaper: of

_ the Belgian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist) covering

an interview with Stokely CARMICHAEL that was published
in the 1 May issue of llumanite Nouvelle, newspaper of the

French Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist). The interview
was conducted when CARMICHAEL was in Paris, France.

2. Also contained in the clipping is a, report of an
interview on Radio Havana with CARMICHAEL following the
- assassination of Dr. Martin Luther KING. . CARMICIIAEL was
in Havana, Cuba, at the time.

PLEASE TRATSHIT REPLY IA LEMESH, HR, $, d. PAPICH

Based on Clarte, Belgian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist),
~~" 9-18 May 1968

Enclosure: as stated RES aaa,

APPROVED FOR RELEASE
7
pate 1G snared 18.

|
|
|
|
i
i
|
|
|



: .
cence entttnncnemnmans tans eA semen in on mr thn
"

5

. 4 , mo, a : , “ . . teat ; eee a

SUle . soviet tile que: est ee |
: so mo a Py at ge EO . m.

« : , - , "

; ; = {

. O gimLaUE LA DInDeNeN ou PANT ET OS LETAT vt

[7 ee i © SOVIRTIQUES Sori A PRESENT UCURPEE PAN BIS : | i

fae:  REVISIONNISTES, 62 CONCZILLE AUX CAMARADES ae
pe . ; i
ao MAD- ‘

yf , J woo f  .DAVO'W LA CONVICTION Gua! LOS LARGE
f foo : e rexerer 7
/ / / fo //f 28 SCS DU. PEUPLE SOVIRVIQUE,. PES MEMONES pu

PANTI EY DES CADRES SOUT be hig GY VEULENT

Na

PLA REVOLUTICN ; LA DOMLATICN DU RS

re wo ~ tame en panes

- L \ ©, ne ~ Warowtia Vies NES ona PAS | ciel chaiaeaa op
" : wo : HAS t ET CuNG.
ar tes rozis, ls 29 fever 1944. oe : BEe

HEDBDOMAD AINE

NOUVELLE SEMIE - Numéro 237

TP Terr et tee opens

se!

IDACTICN

NOTAATION: ONGANE CENTRAL pu PANT! com MUNES Savas oP
en : 4S mal 1o25

(MANKISTE- benttis TE). Do percrave Doo re Srpegse + 6 fe



13-00000

oyawl Pan
aciely CARI

v

2rnistesk Ge
car cu « Black

rerers¢

Powe ectun

{ que Ta) combs

inna:

2 vinaicaneee rene * rdamssine seca usnewe
La grande vam ao Femi tg
pa detorly pur | Pe

ERNE die yt
faventé yp, r

umcro és’ Prom

waa

Us

Pe i]
Vaevesl oa
Nuva e g

Tvigain tars cas resent

du

oa fe
ont

qe

Nth

i

stocKeLy CAR

Intértour,
1 notre futte 5

—-Objactit numéro 1
$e on tant

ae -OBlocitt numéro ; 2m
‘ot. aatreagtes dos U.S.

mA pin:
ae to “i

. . ue . Mee . a) 2
lor ‘hal, Pett “umanikNouvelle », orcane central du Parti
to de Uranee a pub} une ey ti
VoWer» (Pouvoir Noincette interviow'a “et6 réalisce par un

stiour do Carmien’ H a Baris.

ty nant . . . . ”
mouvement clo masse de. Alro- amdricains, Gertaines 5 do “ce ; ; _—
uvent ne pas: laulcws coincider avecselles des markistes-(éninistes mals

Coe

Al sagit: dune s

ue. an

Oatidy

dont quo’ lo,
duly Al oanin

Troanindrtenir

intorviev,

Bizek Power est brates u@, COurageucement anti-raciate,

ion’ du | 7 moe oly
mene EL — Liaspect principal de la situat mony to
-,Pounle alro-américain edteetul duno nouvelio forme do colanintisme * . _

situation presque’ originale a!
50 Tix deux objectifs principaux: we
‘Eliminer Soppression colsnialo qui nous das
ue Noirs sur, fe triple plan en social ot re }

Ur nat sora Os ssorttetloment ievirnaiel” par:

“ea

de Stackely Carmi-

implquo en)

f) coneernera tous *



“(UiEeouomist duo dit,

lo peys) oo
Londecs).

+ Que dit cette voix, Do quello hit-
fe ontek ? Dine tlmptle hits ene

fre dix races nu as quale

mot Importiutt ? ICH
;

Mulstes of faug lcs

y poutenlr

sa puirxlates
progr 3 Golygut-sls
ob fa fatre conuitro ¥

Deg y€panves upp

emum dv -Vexpasd gue Stokely Car-
ret “nous * falt rérenmment cb

uW

> Provdiodat du

{ait de psychkoldgie appifaude,

i
t
}
i
i
|
$
|
q
f Hope preurtra» i
v4 32-14-03), iam E
fre fea eapttaltaten, © ide
ft 3 rah dane, Toreé de rest
"1 rn, em une este Caspian
co certes, equtuijourethul, ia voix} f
din Stokely Carmtehaed. cat confor fo:
due de pli en plas nettement &
?
y

atodo fine tele iM

d ‘al indiqué plus haut qua Vol
bisa simploneni parce “qu ‘il visakt & résoudre un providnio qui
nest pas particulier aux Noils fo problome do -lexploitalien de
Phone par Niomme, a n'est pas nécessairement Hid a ta couleur

- deo la peau. ‘
probiéme du racisme, an peut dire qu'il est spécilique -

Quant a
& Vhemme

On pout mome poser requatig” “ivanto : Noir =
onde, A cause de sa seule por iy
ane ne peat pas nicer s'étre ¢ } sur | -sueur
fos Antilles” irangaises, holiang f angisises, La
sauce. Pronaz len Elats-Unis das sicekw “whdenns. Prenez
{es Elais Unis d qaujourd’hui, Prenez l'Afrique. a hisloire est élo-
quente & co sujet . { .
Leo Blanes. do TOccident trouvent four sy
dans ti négaiion du Noir cn tant que Noir, Us oh
sub-humain pour rationaliser Vexploitation das
s‘humilier en tant qu‘homies.,
— Oul, bien str, ily aie « Code Noir» do Colbert, Mats
mine, dion did Noir ne neut pas Ctreccimpiement un
car on fait, le re clone. apparait bien
comme uno manifestation, do fa tulle des classes. fin'y a qu'd ree
prendre fos excsnples.
STOCKELY, -~ D'ubord, ily aun, probleme hninédiat reelul dada
price da conseionco cdo la victime en face. du bourroau. C'es t on
ant que Noirs que nous entendons nous batire.

LOceident BI
du Woir. Pron

2 doccidenial
du Noir un élre
dir, Pour no pds

nomique n'échappe pas au racisme.

ib n'est que de lire la pres: so américaine pour s'en “convainere. Le
‘probléme du racicme Ici n'est pas nécessairoment lié au probléme
do Fexploilati on.

- Le racisme falt partie de Tarsenal idéologique ot pri atique de l'im-
périalisme ¢ ammérigain. Les Noirs sont d’autant plus exposes que tes
Blancs occidentaux ont -détruit les cultures. africaines de homme

“noir, les Noirs, dans Ie monde, parlent la langue de fours mafires.

Or ta culture Comme dit Fanon,: cst une -« force cohésive »: I
ter A cette culture S'imposition (le pidgin,

leur faut done aussi rés!

ile petit-négro 7).

Dans lo endro’ des “Afro-amérieains cela transparait sous la for-

-mo du christlanisme. Le christianisme est une culliire dimpesilion,

c'eata-dire cosenticllment une culture impérialiste, parce quo lite

-A fidéo de la valour universolle du maitre, Vous devez-cn savoir
“quelque choso en Afrique, avec. le corlége de conversions forcées.

En falt, intibération ‘culturalie est uno choso tres importante. Elle

, “dol viser a-répéter to systamo d'éduicntion du mastra (on tant qua of

res “iian culiuralta), leéduentton, enplttials vi

RET TE

cil 2 cll une cave dionseme,

“font nos

tout de

r paralycée. Aujourd'hul, si des Noirs americajns

"reste qu’aux Etats-Unis, un Noir « bien place » sur fe pla n &to~ © Rone les necepierait pour ta bonne -

“américain.

ee
i cel ordre

: Ha est néce
-— une des lin
‘dés cal ts suivante
opprimeés, Nous, nous fai
sons }

«Si vous voulez lre libs
Mao Tsé- ~toung indique avi

fusil ». C'est jus te. Nous
racistes de limpériatione

2 pouvoir est:
5 fibératours aux fusiis
i ' tae ccs prontes villos,

_ Nous fe lorcerons Aue @ nous lent ons. Comme
UnEUades VIG 3. Oi veut uliliser du ay paca ete
sur SCS propres Villes, nous n'y veyons pas d'inconvénionis,
mais nous nous ballrons, oct oe choce eniendua,

— Vois-iu un rapport entio 2 tulle ct celles
vietnamions, ef des aulrey piles en tulle cont re
U.S. en léle ?

Bien évidemment, chaque fois qua les b
cont minges & Vexleriour, notra julie s'on trouve
mont avantuges.

‘Nous voudrions bien par cxcmiple qu'il
africain qui so cévelopps p prepres
mendler chez log Glancs os ot

Nous en aurions fait, pour
meniaies un moddia psye
on ne peul pas dire qu'il y aii un Boul pays
quo a lheuro actualle, C'est Wailours pour cola
AV:

uo “

rockols

onnelle

reper

frouve un soul -pays
. el-nen en allant

cifer

res fonda,
fais. Mais
eon Alrite

iter en

Afrique, pas un seul pays alti
raison que tous ces pays conl soumis au ioug de l'inpérialisme

Toutes les petites bourgoslsies contre-révolitionnaires au pou-

-volr on ‘Afrique sont iniéodées & Johnson, ot exploiient leur pro-

pres fréres de couleur, L

— Quolle ect votre tache princinale on co moment. Cella qui ro-
quiert actucllement fa priorité 2 :

D'abord, Gliminer rns cnnemis, c'est-a-dire tows los ma
contre- ravdlutionnaires voulant s'intégrer a la socidié
blanche.

Ensuite, organiser notre penile pour qu'il acquiorre to mortiant of-

fensil, condition sine qua non pour briser fe slalut quod’ aujourd’ hui.

Car c'est bien-cela que signifie In jutte défonsive des Luther King

ot autres,
Pour valnere, il s

Interview téléphonique a Radio- La Havane
Déclaration. cdo Cormichadl cles

minimum.

tn tater

“agit d'aila quer, Cest An programme

suite |

ae Tieypecialisne

;



capa wane papa
Pde Passas: saat do W
WATri= (i
HEUUX a Cd)
; ‘ont Apps quand _

wlies av pxaredit bua

— Oratiquement, cement isnt cafa peutil s'egencer 2:

Sacen Ta vic
: slorgwiement, HOUS vunotis tous

entida che

itivis CuHles, ici nou
me & anne . . Nous savons aujourd hud, que lunild, c'est
fa puissanee, Cost pour rcalicor cal inupdratif d’unitd que nous

vyons arald, dans tn promier temps, dae baliser. ‘oulluroliomen ’
en rojefant lo christianisme (culture cPimpusition, dod Ndi: cdo sue
prématia do da culiure des Blanes ocolduniaux). : *

3 out appris, 7

+ Lea rtvkiten et }
nord npmérdesdas quay
ter prise ef her

wh Martha Pather he

pert che gis er is
Mav abuny tes a HTens

Ree MONS ae pants

en. abby = Le problema a resoudre est coli do olution a fatics enn ree
ant en int emttrale]> ncirs, Pour noun, cela-signifio 3 objectiis +.” : J 4 ane comer noe prayer iieah muverte, :
sugedra une cbr] ‘1. Adoplion une langue nations He africaino + Je ewahill, par “ venstyntenve le
Tine tris ostnepta Ut exemple, . sol aa anes qi) commencent oa

2. Duutruction du christianisme,

3, Redécouvrir VAfrique, mais d’une manttre neienlificuue, pour y
puiser nos propres tides, au ticu ws “Sunn los iieros blanes
oonldantaux,

_ _En'somma, recréer notre culture pour en. fniro une force do. cohé-
sion.

Dégager uno iddologi ic politique ‘commune. A cat gard Poxpétion-

meting anetes dy
neat qatily onl a

femps dare pelsner

yes sirpriy vn

it de Ueaner ane
at ang de ing
rovergoune vérHable coveluden au.
seehy da omeoys O6 Ge te dite & penouy

te Det VOR YE

eoubts, Nets sonunes, tr lout,

rules oy Hetty partons trea

enn

Hibreipent, Une ermarade afraid. © Hler Kaiy, conmia con

‘co do ia Révolution chinoise est riche d'exemples mobilisateurs, Pusuasstut de Wings It be syateme dinpéviatiste, Tair news,
Heafae - vivang A Parks = asso Ja Notre (iche & nous est “do tuiier pour ‘acquérir une idéalogic cor |b. peavey inci hints dy 1 do ta elaita de om syste
erulaité de da Gaduetlon, £8 er} rocle, capable d'unifier tous les Noirs, . aaa on ‘les cont ‘ie es at evidente pour
a lurcrenb quinine fretres, La chose fondamentale & retenir, c'est de contribuer 4 développer Date et dex moris, s1 est Gt Si vivre, Bg touy d
-HLIMMA, la conscience qui: doit amenor PAméricain noir a résister, Cette |} y auru d'autres iuchlents de « te ovie pone y arrivers
a neneneteinmmanennnnnnnemaaa conscience ost néces ealro. . nn aeeeeasianantsseneenneneternne ea tment een ene



a : 19 SEP i968

2 SUBJECT: Stokely CARMICHAEL

’ Attached is a copy of an article appearing in
the 9-15 May 1968 issue of CIarte, weekly newspaper of
_ the Belgian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist) covering
+ an interview with Stokely CARMICHAEL that was published
in the 1 May issue of Humanite “Nouvelle, newspaper of the
French Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist). The interview
was conducted when CARMICHAEL was in Paris, France.

2. Also contained in the clipping is a report of an
interview on Radio Havana with CARMICHAEL following the
4 assassination of Dr? Martin Luther KING. CARMICHAEL was
in Havana, Cuba, at the time.

PLEASE TRAHSHIT REPLY VIA UMSH,
Based on Clarte, Belgian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist),
9-15 May 1968
Enclosure: as stated (one):

Ch.

a APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date aa GIG



ny,

pSeRMAL

{

. - |
(7) UNCLASSIFIED aii CONF” “ENTIAL (R] secre
Pe : ‘ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET” \
SURIECT, (Opnewi) “| |
Home ne — no |
L Cci/Ober _ $847 19 Sept 1968
YO; (Oem Sengcaian, wom mumbo, ond Dare
setae) ae rerees A lis aeliane attra
on 2 re Ay
EVES GHLY, co internal use
z = Originated by:Ciop/po,
: F709 Sept 087 Te
K : i 4 ee
a ‘{Basea’ on: ,
a : : : Communist Party
ae -- Qlarxist-Leninist) |
2 9-15 May1968-
Es :
is s=| Disseminated to: | FBI:on
i eee Bee 17 Sept 68

anfoted ‘trom'iin= © OSS

5 BJUSC 552a(a)}.

f Information

fas.

Files” B-Menfos (record copy)
Rod brussela
;ARMICHAEL, Stokely
(safe) (u/enc)

cc:

ce: BYES INILY

B-175

eee (X] SECRET

(] CONFIDENTIAL

Oo

INiEMAL TD] uachasSi FIED



SEGRET.. ~ ( 1.9 SEP 1968

wp FOREGA BSSER No SSN ABRETS

& SUBJECT: Stokely CARMICHAEL

1. Attached is a copy of an article appearing in
the 9-15 May 1968 issue of CIarte, weekly newspaper of
_ the Belgian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist) covering
F an interview with Stokely CARMICHAEL that was published
ES in the 1 May. issue of Humanite Nouvelle, newspaper of the
French Communist Party (Marxist- Leninist). The interview
was conducted when CARMICHAEL was in Paris, France.
2. Also contained in the clipping is a report of an
interview on Radio Havana with CARMICHAEL following the
- assassination of Dr. Mar Luther KING. CARMICHAEL was
in Havana, Cuba, at the time. |

PLEASE TRANSMIT REPLY VIA LEASH

UR. S.J, PAPICH

Based on Clarte, Belgian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist),

9-15 May 1968
Enclosure: as stated (one)Gies 1.
Hed om Carmichiel seus. seth

classifled Bi OST? ST



E

yt

Cc

wt

euple- sovicti ‘que est)

'S TALI IN

>

4

BiG-C0E LA DIRCG VION O23 PANT] EP DSP ETAT

‘ -SOVIETIQUES Soir A PRESENT oe RPES PAN BOS
* REVISIONTISTES, J un CONSEIL LG AUX CAMARADES
DAVGIA LA CONVICTION We = LARGSS MAS-
SCS DU. POUPLE SOVISTIQUE,. CES MEMONES Bu
ANT) RY DES CALI AOS SGUT BONS EY YEULGUT
FAIRS LA REVOLUTICI 5 LA DOMINATION DURE

ve : vi SID? Ios NE Sena PAS LOnauS,

Honors WILLEAS, fusili é par les 4 nazis, le 39 fev ier 1944, ve : ee “MAST See re CON.

aaa “semen te Wee seeneveonee oe Westin eran
: HEDOOMADAINE
“onaane (CONTRAL DU PANT comuy He TE vo NOUVELLE SERIE - Munigre £0
on . . oo. P  Gamstne dO su 73 mat 233
(man loTe-LeMin ‘DE peLeraue po Ts gpaess 2 Proncs

. _ (Test e abennemenis : pages 8)

prorgees



13-00000

seromerminsmaets cha wee OAL

|
i
i
|
}

|

:
.
t

uebcad

teque °

ee Sateen wd”

Mss

ree

eA See aan

umd t Dre vo .
a a nia wer ian Pett umanttttouvelte », arcane central du Part
ua Black : nn ae to Franco a put une Interview de Stockely Car ie
tone 3 ower » (Pouvolr Nolr)Cotte interviow'a ate tGalice ce par un
fors du re 23en te Siour de Garmian a Baris.
= wo totter foment cle masse de Afro-am Sricains. Cortaines de cos *
uo lo eo ae ste WS Coincider avecsolies des markistes-(éninistes mais!
Oo cambs ay Bicele Power ast brotque, courngeusement antieractste, |

x -
2 penne pn nee
sade bene oa

u est impartont oy C pour cat, eee —_ lus cos . :

:§ OoKELY CARMICHAEL — L'as pect principal delasituation du |. 2 2 et pos
pounle atro-américajn odtcalul d'uno nouveko forme do colonialisme " ; ep te,
Merlour, Hl sagit dune situation presque’ originale qui imptique :

We Noire lutte se tixe deux © bjectifs principaux:
JObjectit numéro 1 ¢ eliminer oppression: colonials’ dui nous

oe {ant que Noirs's “sur. to trtplo plan économique, social, ot

fa sed Tutte ted?

10. 2 POU
Te, Par wy \

IB tos. dos US.

ED

‘allaquor; -OUx. “etruetyros “edipttalts tes



13-00000

atthe

wal ou pels conselenge | quo
ie kao f

Bland de

Hounmre,

‘ no hilfo des pouplos . eb
remiont du pouple afrecmd-

Minpériatisas, aux, abets,

14 alli efier veg

quciaead au trivon €New  Yurt

Posi ening

es 126 if?

‘den

fol don enghhittate
Hinitss. On est’ dune faréé de ras

voeanaliza, mii ne vago dloopitaaats

Ta vatx

Stokely Carmichael en

due do play en play metftement. dh

los
» Boutcniry

dsah tos ot tous
istes Aolyput-fis

: oO ceerles, 9 qutdtonrd hut,
% .

vo psefody my.

j
es Glais-Unis ‘d'aujoura’ hai, Prenoz l'Afrique.
“quente 4 ca suet.

te
Lise eit th ditto bette car
a ny a : ae
D fenders. comme deaf
hopes, al ineltent prabil-

» faitde

_ noir, les Noirs,

/ te petit-negro 7).

to pays » (couoatys du rtp
Londres). so mo
* Quo dit ectte valx, Do quello
fea Gaett- ? Dano cimplo Intlo en-
ce opatie Ge pros}

a te problime duyacisme 9. a me
vo te probleme da.|'exploliation.

dal indiqué plus haut que Vobjeclif n°? Glait une couvi'e d'onsem-
bio; simploment parce qu'il visait a résoudre un provitnio qui
n fost pas particulier aux Noirs: to probléme do exploitation de

‘homme par homme, Il n'est pas nécessairement fié a la couleur
do ja peau. ly : :

Quant au probiéme du ractame,-on peut dire qu'il est
a Vhomme noir, On pout mame pos fr Péquatioe™*ivante
Martat du monde, A cause de sa seule por 2

L'Occident Blane ne peut pas nicr s'dre ¢
du Noir. Pronez les Antilles frangaises, hollanc
memo sauce. Prenez les Elats-Unis dos siecha.

Noir 2s

fanglaises, La

Les Blanes do-fOccklent trouvent leur nf oh d'occidental
dans in négatlon'du Noir en fant que Noir. Ha ol
sub- humain pour rationailser fexploilailon du cwdir, Pour no pas
s‘humilier en tant qurhoinmes. . .
— Oul, bien stir, fy ato « Code Noir» de Colbert. al ats tout de

mame, celle exploitiion du Noir.ne peut pas. dtre cimpliement -un-
oppargit bien,

psychologia appliqués, car.en falt, le racisnic
comme une mianifectition de fa tulle. des classes 3 n'y a qua ros
prendre les exernples. :

STOCKELY. ~- D'abord, Hey a un, probleme tiuned! fate:
priso da conscience da la victime en face. du bourreau. C'est en
tant que Noirs quo nous cntendons nous balire.

_ Heresto qu’aux Etats-Unis, un Noir « bien place » sur le, plan éco- °
nNomique n’échappe pas au racisme.

ih nest que do fire fa presse américaine pour s'en convainere. Le

‘probiéme du racisme ic! n'est pas “néecssairoment lie au problome

do Vexploitation.

Le. racisme falt partie de Varsenal idéclogique et pr. alique de Iim-
périalisme ¢ amdricain. Les Noirs sont d’autant plus oxposés que tes
Glanes occidentaux ont détruit les cultures africaines de l'homme
dans. fo monde, parlent la langue de icurs mafitres.

r.ta cullure comme dit Fanon, est. une «force cohtsive »: Il
four faut done aussi résister A ectte culture Timposition (le pidgin,

Dans fo cadre’ des Alro- américatns cela transparait sous’ Ia fore

-mo du chr: stlarisme. Le christlanisme est une culture: d'impositlon,

c'osl-A-dira essenticilement une culture Impérlatiste, parce quo li¢e
fidée de la valeur universelle du maitre, Vous devez en savoir

_quetque chose en Afrique, avec le cortege de conversions forcées.

En-falt, In.libération culluralle est une chose trés importante. Ello

“doll Visor. a répétor ta systéma d‘ fduention du mattra (en tant que
etree find ha, Aimpovition cutturalia), ldaciantion canttatiate ‘

spécifique
ys sur: Ia suet *
whdents! Pronez

histoire ost élo- -

yvu Noir un Glee,

cout deta,

doje oe tmeeas me seiamem ter at peetttaet ee ant ham ert

; contro-révoiutionnaires voulant

— De quel ordie cot-ctic
— Ella est nécessaire
a

‘dés est

opprimes. Nous, nous tai

sons;
«Sj vous voulez étre libre.

Mao Tsé-toung indique avec raison ie “ “eS peuoie ot nal

fusil », C'est juste. Nous opr 9 nos fusils libérnteurs aux

racistes de limpérialisme a dans ses nrapres ‘iHes,

le lorcerons a fo GOINMe fi ¢ fantendrons. Comme
L653. Si veut uli er du napaim et ces

sous n'y veyous pas dince savénients,
chose entanduo.

lute ct celles des c
en kite contre 1

rockets
mais, nous
— Voi
viet namic:
U.S, en t&e ?
Bisa évidemment, chaque fos que tes

our 2OS propres vill
nous batlroas, cust une
lu Gn rapport cae votre

na, et des sutres peuples

rages

(anion,

bases de Th
pertionrehas

sont minges & lextéricur, notra tulle s'en trouve
ment avantagee.
* Nous voudrions blen par cxcmplo qu'il co trouve un ceul pays
africain qui so daveloppo p propres ciforts, of non en aliant.
mendier chez [es Blancs eccu . .
Nous.on aurions fait, pour ta
meniates un madtle psychos '
on ne peut pas dire au'iiy ak un a
que 4 l'heure actuclle. C’ast dailleurs i 2 gue TO.U.A, ost
paralyeée, Aujourd'hul, si des Nuirs ameneajns Avainal a sexiler en
Afrique, pas un seul pays aficain ne les epierait pour ta bonne
raison. que tous ces pays sont soumis au ioug do Himpeérialicme
américain, sO :
2Toutes les petites bourgesisies ‘contre-révolutionnaires au pou:
voir en Afrique sont inféodées & Johnson, cl exploitent leur pro
pres frares de couleur. . *
-— Quelle est votre tiche principate en ce moment. Celle qui re-
quiert actucllement {a priorité-?
D'abord, ‘éliminer nos enncmis,

Aha fois.
inaire on Afri

c'est-a-dire lous les inouvemer nls
s‘intégrer & la socidia “capitaliste
blanche. -

Ensuite, organiser. notre pewale pour qu'il acquicrre to mordant of-
fonsif, condition sine qua non pour briger fe slatut quo d'aujourd’ hui.

Car c'est bien cola que signific Ia lutte défensive des Luther iing
et autres,

Pour vainere, il s'agit d'altaquer, C'est un programme minimum.

“Interview téléphonique & Radio-La Havana ; |
Dée aration da Corny tes

ie Jn

4

Lat OS



ig, Horns avons

utes

atest
conan

I:
;
foun Actes preuenter
if VON a @ultes da be cenverntte
he :
fem
: THY ren;
: ent ntoen inl, contrat
AL A ocw Qhe sugeeero we eer.

ou
srner

Qo presage, 3 Cribs

pas eu $e tempt de so pet
priv ona sant da" it,

Yuvan

fat velo ng

HAY ¥

centile, Nog. sommes, on

cing canuurides Yo reug partens tra
afrasnnde

Hbrement, Une eumarade

fae e vivang \ Parly ass

aa

abuts da da Graduedion,

frethns durcrong quatre Toure,

26 te nolrte

tout, |

mene Latte tes mee ame set eemees ere ee ernanteg ewer mar te

pu power fa Sociels enpilaliste.
iquement bo comment iout cela Rew 3 s

vagencer ? -
venons tous Atri
{ HU GHUX
10 5 ‘ont appris quand
> Savens aniourd hui que lunita, ¢ "est
r cul inipératif dunild que nous ¢
wiser, ‘cultwellement,
on rojetant ‘te chris lianisme “Teullure dnposition, Woo a idee do
prématia do ka culty ro des Planes oeckdentntx),
~~ Le problizne a nisoudre est celui de eréer dew révolutionnres
nvirs. Pour nous, celu-signifio 3 objectils 2. - . ,
7 Adoption Sune langue nationale africair ine : Je
- exoniple: vy
2. Destruction ‘du christianisme. : . :
3. Redécouvrir VAirique, mais aD [Uate) mianlre scientifique, pour y
puiser ros propres hteoes, ‘au-tieu dl! ascumner, les heros blanes
oceldantaux.
En somme, reeréor notre culture pour en, fatro une force do. cohd-
sion.
Dégager uno idéolodie ‘politique commune. A cet égard Jexpérion-

ann

a mes iar ‘unite.
ance. c est pour reat

ewahill,. par

‘co de In- Revolution chinoise est riche d'exemples mobilisalours,

Notre {acho A nous est de futter pour acquérir une idéolegie cor
recle, capable d'unifior tous tes Noirs,
-La chose fondamentiale 4 retenir, c'est-de coltribuer A développer

‘fa conscience qui doit amenor FAméricain noir a résister, Cette

consclenco ost née ces: calro,

Sue

“assassii ar

:
det

{ode plus ei nhs
sles,
HUIS Me potte.
poles ch ree

< hen metabed et tes |
nerd-amnérieadig aulatlenne
Brawn en py aD
Martin

Ie de
nee gud cotmacncent 2

chant iia pierre ve ge

wire

popitiation notre: dex 1:
ne peta dirtier tes villen, a
mettre @actey da
aunt qa'iia ont ¢
ab nel ne pen
alee no pai haide eG
ainl{le quih sera uéce vide
miger X fond dang by ative :

+ Hier sole, connie cowed yi 5+
ty Int da King, Woy
“gruveg Inehtonta dung ih ve
Tncendles, des coups de feu, «
Tata ef des nearts, Mest Ovi
y sure d'autres Inellenty de ce

penser

me ft grande eeledfe

Manique aaaatire 5

ment ihe dae ane i pense
Ay
rovers Une ¥G
Inde payd 66 de mettre o
ayatenre inipdé:
sith do he ¢

haat ving du tite,

CHOUN
Ter nats,
fe de co Rystite
Ssurtenlé
sis ead re

tt

sient Gvidenfe peag cgie
sab Pisses vivere,

ste Vda pour yo arrivers

Wy ews doy



13-00000 x

é



ab @-75 contains nemo Bxs4)

Previously denied in toto under exemption(s)/b}

under of :

Sustain initial denial

( )- DROP exemption(s)

xempted under of

n tgto under exemption(s) él TEES)
() ADD exemption(s) dpe

€ ) ADD exempt ion(s) 5
( ) ‘DROP exemption (s) -

of .

} Deny document in-toto under exemption (s

Segregable portions previously, released; excised portions exempted

of Fos!

.J-Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

of _

tion from a foreign Jiaison service
lon pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship
J Intormation which would/emedi identify the source
¢ ition pertaining toa source

nformatlon pertaining torintelligence methods
Eocation ‘of CIA overseas installation

‘Bocation of unacknowledged domestic installation
‘NameS of CIA employees

File number

Ps eudonym

ryptonym
ternal: organizational data

me -of FBI. agent
[PBI €ile number .
Privacy of other individuals
OTHER

LSESRET OO was:

ntained
ified to

Pomerania
it! ‘

AY Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

ie exemptions clted above are being claimed to protect the following:

ing the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

IDET
GL2L70

Bde eer4.

a
4
}

oe

Bee

cere


13-00000

, PETER 7 a i i
J UNCLMSSIFIED | f7*HEFRNAL C1 ‘penta [x] Secner |
eae ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET |
CTs (Onrenaty ~ — a
c — i i 1 aE:
B-191

. jow —_ _

5847 | 9 October 1968 7
ng) L— ——| ens yore ee So Peoery

_ “weano [romano fen es
a th i aay Sig
fanariaa| 2+] Originated by:. WH/7/R/PRO1soq

2 (8 October 68)

Based on: BJK-2S1
Ota. para’ 405)
_t = >b. para a06*
c.. para 411

: do) para 413°
7 oan Je. para 417
: : TE] se £.. para 420

| ~, | Disseminated to: ‘FBI on
. 10 Oct 68

Fle” Wetleses (record copy)

’ cc: 100-500-44
ce: PROD Kenigsrlo
Fee dD

B-194 - i
i

Tl Seeger) COMEIDENTIAL TU eer assteien,



SORANDUM

SUBJECT: Jamaican Special Brauch Report —
Jamaica/inited States Black Power Ties

1. . Pertinent items from the Jamaican Special Sranch
monthly report for April 1968, which contains several
fexences ‘to ties between Black Vower groups in Jamaica
and the United States, are provided, in full, below. A
sudmary of the report, omitting portions concerning ‘tae
United States or United States citizens, has been dissemin~
ated in CS~311/06459-68, 2 copy of which is attached.

2, The items of possible intérest, omitted from the
dissemination, are noted below:,

“faction of the Nation of islam (NO1) vere held, on

13 April, Percy Hayles, the boxer, said that he was -
inpressed «th the doctrine and had written to Ulijan

“Yohammed aaking for a scholarship to cnable iin to
study in ob» of the islam Universities in the United

yStates, Errol Levy said that only :a revolution could
end the vhite man’s practice of rovbing the black
people of everything.

: b. At the meeting on 24 April, Cecil (Prince

“Buster) Campbell stated that the premises
Street in Kingston belonged to lim and ph.
for it to be used for the assistance of the; bi
He called for unity anong biack peoole and
his organization was fighting to rule Jamaica. ie
told members that they snould be prenared to meet the

«Reverend Sherriffe (aka. Thomas View): who vould soon be
visiting the Island.

¢, On the Sth ond Sth of April, discussions vers
«t+ held Led by George Vassel, leader of the Young Socialist


+ Luther Ring. Vassel c

2.

a member of the Jamaican (Caribbean)
venent, on the possibility of holding

tions at the American Entassy ngs ton

© protest agalust the assnuslnation o2 Dr. Hartin
aimed that there was a United
tates citizen aiding in Jamaica to escape the arait
o bad ia bis, posseasion: secordings of speeches made
“by the Late Malcolm X during 1904, one of ‘these vas
entitled "The Ballot or;Bullets",. He stated that King’s
Geath disproved bis theory of nonviolence and was
pringing tote proalnence men like Stokely Carmichael
and 3, fap Brown.

ad. During April, about 46 persons including
Winstow Nonroe,.Joseph Christie, Roy Joffrey, Leonard
Solomon and one Hy Survad, who is the American draft
escapee referred to in Paragraph c. above, met at

29 Fourth Street, Trench Town (Dallas Carner), where
Burvad, identified as a Black Muslin und a menber of
the Black Power Movement (BPM), on anevexed questions put
to hia’ by the gathering. it was unisrstood that Survad
tes in Jamaicd te solicit support for the BPM in the
United States as vell as to establish a branch here.
1 record "The Ballot or Bullets” was played by
Survad and recorded py Nonroe.

Survad invitation to

a sot rogethex which be was arranging in Savaana-
47, und to spend a veek or two vith hin

They discussed the Congress of Racial Equality

end the SPM, and it was suggested that a local

“Steering Comittee should be acpointed to consider the

formation of a group in Jamajea,

2 Q, a ‘
maics Service Comment: Suryad tas subse~

a moaber of CORE and the Blac
with Rastafarians at int:
¥iking and Spade is expecting to meet one
/Sorporal Javea,.aka "Jimsy" of the Jamalea Dezence
ho is said to have complained that he wos
“deprived of promotion because of his views. Arrange~
ta ra aiso being made for him to meet Walter Rodney
oF the University of the sat indies. Survad has stated

Muslims, We 3s in touch
a, and the leaders of the



43-00000,

that ig given the chance be would, within oz’
nstration, ‘ie has
his ‘colleagues can supoly ‘uarijuana
export it, he foo) guarautes an outlet in the

ined could be

ee by his girlfriend, Sornadine who
yas expected to arrives from the United Drates towards
the ond of the ensuing month. He is now in siraitened
circum tances.)

WH/7/R/PROlson:mbk (8 October 1963)
Distribution:
Orig. FBI w/att
(2)- CI/oPs/Do
UY ~ WH/7/8/JaTS
~ C/TH/7/5ATS

Pua PEL
CSIE/PL

fed Pal RL,

Based on: NJK-252
a. ~ para 405
b, - para 406
ce. - para 411
dad. - para 413
e, — para 417
£. - para 420



13-00000



1000. C tptemmere ow

5

B36
2 eee S33 .
tabB72~ contains Fur the. Olivers dared fen 17,1969» |

A
()P gona, denied in toto under exemption(s) __ of

(.} Segregable portions previously released; excised por
under of

dy) Located during the DDO appeals review,

(.} Referred to DDO for review by

Further description, identification, comments, and/or referra

I RECOMMEND:

(.) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s) of
(/) ADD exemption(s) 2

() DROP exemption(s):__- SS :

( ) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions .
exémpted under of ;
(.) ADD exempt ionts) ‘

( }) DROP exemption(s) pesssesnessteeer Werealt. sestesneareare =)

( ) Release additional information with excised Lean exempted under
of

44
Og Deny document in toto under. exemption(s) £16) of FO Za

. ( } Release a sanitized’ version with excised portions exempted under
of .

The exemptions citéd above are being claimed to protect the following:

3
:

) Information from a foreign liaison service

} Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship
) Information which would/could identify the source

} Information pertaining: to a source

) Information pertaining to intelligence methods

}* Location of CIA overseas installation

} Location of unacknowledged domestic installation

} Name - of CIA employee
)
}
2
)
)
)
)

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonyn

Internal organizational data
Name of FBI agent

FRI file number

Privacy of other individual
OTHER

tla, Lik is cater

SPECIAL INSTRUCT, gis, glo Eg peta es
he ee G pote

ieee ta 000 cris cation ee. “this document which was narked



13-00000. ~

ul LIL

Q

8 .

So Js. Wivlan Ketter eg | fe
8 230 Kunal iE Bate: fh

.  Lebantes, Mew

S uy. a

ie 2 part _ AEE AL EL IT Es LT AE



13-00000_- |

ve. aad ee Fe cove oe i WY
Lda
Q

Pd oo é

‘gi:

foe a Lad Laeger: Charl

(ide Lowe \ piidd o > itll, inom,
V4

T Merimany, Catt we

fi Neredut,

PPh An), Charely (obec oc ened.

Mer, ahecf) #4

4g oscle), Loti CN Drs
bn. ret Me oriat here, & ee ers
tucharnole deren Oo ee hans
bone Geol Aerbeelsne, fe
2 , vbw arte pe Kad oy Hi ha.
Ags ith, verde at Werabact ca gervnedl sa!
Ahat Teg Bre beLtoteg Lege le frporn<
tn The YoutA. AY, dere qraeeg be .
Dy % re Me wart, Dy aotobces woe
Ae bind ‘he Coll arinle Boal Led tp, i
ase AWAAa? Lhe pen Ang Borie :
ghee Prsopsed Aawe fr By. agp _
Mermacres +» Goan Pow noun Disb drea ap pom a
Lae "0D Io LT ge < Pavone Vhat,
ot “a Karey heal t aa eee

ee mance ener Ta FT Ta

opel spew yete te pred ie :
Drvrmioe Libyed - DecLicchs Phen
09 Mobts B. 7, Bosibjenen fhe 38,
Lexad ogee — ‘L. a Kenvene! OF eokol ny.
BE, eins Os Bea .
& cama Poetry a piprbeteon 4 nly | : i ; :
Looe. : ine



13-00000

~ Sep Ry es

2H Sus woh Ove :
orth week Hate
Menges Bolt ie

i ao bean WH Ln.

oo thawe wes aa a he loca

Oo You So kndO Sonk Gug, Geral Ine ntctia hey

| Quswehriol pee » Ouky tokewy i Two Sop
Gack a hoot ~ caus coke sin Ckkp wre ae
a wprirk of ore arheb, In Cate
Cy “But el wie tok 28%cf 28%: iG aca
jonat ue to repeat 4 Uap an
hn, & 04: Qerck Se dow — & ‘
fo Teseninls ly = peta Gtte,

bx Hat.

ce Ju. Carwh poodles Ward
ior, £ Lane tor Brag Go
igen WP;

f. i



13-00000,., fe eK

Yew woul L )
= ary 7 face Guatervrat.- dr Lreeg's DL,
Sous — “Ley dp ty He Grol of :
ai we * aeabel be af Coulle tepahve - _
an lex jet pomnt abbey ee
on We Prica,- feu oh we,,
2 He “eth, ouch, |, Betsy,
ets, Buy § “wack » the Cute A DAY
ae 9 dopo th. wree-
shee oh he pockon - ope “2p
“é ad ah GH Beet alee
ia ~ bby fo lend oA ~o

oo ¥ aa wh pe. :
feu, Ra Agnes. 4 tee 4 2
ff ty: Ge hought anol etarier” a -
- Daselin beter VG rlaoke GA wet keow? A
weuk? &e ‘ey heercrk ubeh to coustiteebe,
a

J hage, y vf 2 ust. Con Sobn he a
wis "thao slaate- bu very. sevisus, vio, ;
of County. ST citckel hot Cede ioe
we faa; ! awk Wworur.

A thaw Ge op, choca us hay,

AOL Youn L ter

C @ eo. “4, aes yong
_ qi a Sse bon



2
3
3
=}
2
§>.

> 3s ee ee ee ine
bite lt EEO el a Ee at Goi ge ie Ela


13-00000 neo setae tts Ph - LSPS to et
UNCLASSIFIED : {Kl CONFIDENTIAL © (Ol secret ([] Top secret

peel 327 APPEALS RE
1. Tab @-Sy, contains (Z6h ed. aatea /F

2. (€) Previously denied in toto unde “pption{s)

of
en 4 :) racpwroge it
Ba Teas 3) (Eb Gh

(  Segregable Bers Oana eee FeviouslyVWrele, feo ee ex L fay

ee OF FO 1

ie,
(,) Located during the BDO appeals review.

-{) Referred to DDO for review by

description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

4, T RECOMMEND: .
() Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s) of |
} ADD exenption(s) =O
() DROP exemption(s)

(.) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under of ;
- () ADD exemption(s)_ :
‘a (.) DROP exemption(s) 7.
(.)- Release additional information with excised portions exempted under
of .
* () Deny document in toto under exemption(s) of
, Q<) Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under
D 1 of 01h. -
5. -T

‘he exemptions cited above are being. claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service
Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship
Information which would/could identify the source
information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods
Location of CIA overseas installation

Location of unacknowledged domestic installation
Name of CIA employee

File number .

Pseudonym .
Cryptonyné

Internal organizational data

Name of FBI agent |

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

Nasee AN
mere yrs

ARR

6. COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS,

appeal classification review, this document which was

narked as SE CRE was:

{) maintained |
() classified to
¢
‘

itized
owngraded to €

(Sq) CONFIDENTIA:



13-00000

LSISABZ MAY 71 CITE

AMACHAOS
HEAD QUARTERS”

i, 18 FINAL COVERAGE OB 18 MAY OF WPC, WHICH Eb

ED 16 HAY,
(G98 press HAS MADE FOLLOYIuA ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS RE US
P

ISIPANTSs A

A. SIDNEY PE CG Kp ‘DENTIPE=D AS “USA PROFESSOR,”
SPoWS AT CORGRESS ON VIET RAM HAR.

Be WPC HAS AZABDED JOLIOT Cth

4
GOLD NED BA

REV MARTIN LUTHER KING. eye ACCEPTED BY REV RALPH |

ry P
WATHY AMO REV Y. Y AL KER "AN AMERICANITEACE FIGRTEN .”

TOGRAPH CPOUCHED) OF PRESENTATION ALSO PICTURES U.S. DELEGATES
aD
ULIAMND OUR HARD eo 2S. ADDIE WYATT.

ES RUTH GS

|
|

Ce UeS« D - SOL BY AND SYLVIA
Y

{US$ 6 HER (SIQ) SPOKE AT

ETUNG OF TMDOCHINESE Abo

ue DELEGATES. - ;
APT HE KER At

TO PRESIDENTIAL Bo.

De AER TCAN

POUGHING NOST SIGNIFI

‘APPROVED FOR RELEASE
Date 7. 0 teh ADIT



13-00000

1915482 MAY 71 CITE
HEAD QUARTERS
sCHAQS

| REF: HRADQWRTERS!

ice IH FINAL COVERAGE OB 18 HAY OF WPCy WHICH ENDED 16 HAY,

LOCAL PRESS HAS MADE FOLLOWIHG ADDITQONAL OBSERVATIONS RE US. !
PARTICIPANTSs VA
Ace SWMNMEY PE C Ky DENTIFIED AS "USA PRO Ry”

SPOKE AT COWGRESS ON VIET RAM WAR.

: fi
B, WPC HAS A¥NBDED JO}. 10T Oot HUROUSLY
v a

TO REV MARTIN LUT

XIN. EMAL ACCEPTED BY REV |
HATHY AW REV YE. ¥

PR

A Lo KER "Au AM neR 2oANeEAGE FIGHTEN .” i
PHOTOGRAPH CPOUCHED) OF PRESENTATION ALSO PICTIRES UeS. DELEGATES
WILLIAMD OUR THARD 4a IRS. ADDIE B YA t

Ce UcS» DELEGATES RUTH cy
KUS CHER (SIC) SPOKE AT 5
ante Cat

DELEG, TES.
De. AMERICANS

4

REELECTED TO PRESDEN.

Be POUCHING }
COUNCIL, SESSIONS.



SE CR ET 1913482 MAY 7) CITE
HEAD QUARTERS .
RYBAT MHCLRB MHCHAOS

REF: HEADQUARTERS 2789
1. IN FINAL COVERAGE ON 18 MAY OF WPC, WHICH ENDED 16 MAY,
LOCAL FRESS HAS MADE FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS RE U.S.

ii
|
|
i
|

PARTICIPANTS: va

Ae

SPOXE AT CONGRESS ON VIET NAIE WAR.

Be. WPC HAS N#ARDED JOLIOT CURIE GOLD MEI
TO REV MARTIN LUTHER KING. NEDASL ACCEPTED BY RB
a vo

“atl AMER ICAiney

OTOGRAPH CPOUCHED) OF PRESENTATION ALSO PICTIRES U.S, DELEGATES

aupourtHako Me yes. aDDIE v YATT.

De. AMERICANS HERBERT APTH

TED TO PRESIDENTIAL BOARD.
2. STATION POUCHING MOST SIGNI

= OF

COUNCTL SESSIONS, GP}



13-00000

v



CJ] UNCLASSIFIED. » , [R| CONFIDENTIAL ~ SECRET TOP SECRET

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

@@ 225.
1. Tab g-gyconteins D7) ween  Zi- ZEAL dated Ay onan 2b :
of

2. ()} Previously denied in toto under exemption(s)

00 Segregable portions previously released; excised portions exempted
under (Za fs (2) DAES fie) of Fase.

(.) Located during the DDO appeals review.

(.}) Referred to DDO for review by _.

3,- Further description, identification, comments, ‘and/or referrals, etc.

4. I RECOMMEND:

4

() Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s) of
( ) ADD exemption(s) -
( ) DROP exemption(s)”_. .

( ) Sustain initial release of sanitized. version eacky excised Portions.
exempted under Sof

= () ADD exemption(s) =

(} DROP exemption (s) e

: fA Rope ase additional information with excised portions exempted under
¢ e43) (ame of Fon . L

() Deny document in tato under exemption(s) of -

0d Relesse.a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under
i of ie

<—~* a
he exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

wu
4

Information From a foreign liaison service

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship
Information which would/could identify the source
Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods .
Location of CIA overseas installation 5
Location of unacknowledged. domestic aero on

Name’ of CIA employee

File nuubers, : ia
Pseudonym eRe

Cryptonyms

Internal organizational data

Name of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual®

OTHER .

lotenententand

TS

CMCISETLE

“6, COMMENTS and/or PISS INSTRUCTIONS. haere IF ENG LTA is. ars a
bs.

7 Va ee 2 oe , See
aan EY erates

; amet a
7, During the DDO classification review, this document which was Par
ela 0h

age ER é wast
. beryue™]
be Rad pe

bret

dru aa

MPD E

L BY 012179

KA cone TENT Tar 1 creeper ean. ereare


13-00000

B- 2628
21 ay 1977

SUBJECT: Americans Attendiag the World Peace Council (PC)
Conference in Budapést, Hungary, 13-16 May’1S71

1. A reliable source has reported that the following
Asericans spoke at the indicated committee meetings of the
WPC Conference:

Ae

B.
Cc.

D.

E.

BF.

Stanley FAULKNER, Committee on European’ Peace

.and Security;

Sylvia KUSHNER, Committee on Indochina Aggression;
John GILMAN, Committee on the Near East;

Mary Angie DICKERSON, Section Meeting Discussing
Discrimination;

Luis GARZA, Section Meeting Discussing Dis~
crimination; and

Ruth GAGE-COLBY, Committee on Disarmament.

ALL o£ the above-named persons were: identified specifically
as members of the U.S. delégation: ~~

2. According to the same source, S, FAULKNER, "Vice
President of the American National Lawyers' Association,”
functioned as President in a meeting of lawyer delegates
to the Congress and the American delegate Albert KAHN
translated a uessage from the widow of artist Rockwell
XENT to the Conference.

i

3. In its final coverage on 18 May of the NPC Confer-
ence, which ended 16°May, the Ilungaxian Press made the
following additional observations regarding United States
participants:

A.

WEL FOR RELEASE

Sidney PECK, identified as "USA Professor,”
spoke on the war in mage



13-00000

URIE GOLD MEDAL a
sthumously to the Reverend Martin Luther
NG. The medal was accepted by the Reverend
Ralph ABERNATHY and the Reverend Wyatt T. .
WALKER, "an American peace fighter." “A photo-
graph o£ the presentation ceremony also included
William DOUTHARD and Hrs, Addie WYATT.as U.S.
delegates to the Conference;

C. U.S. delegates Ruth GAGE~COLBY and Sylvia
KUSHNER. spoke at a meeting of Indochinese and
American delegates; and

Americans Herbert APTHEKER and Carlton GOODLETT
were re-elected to the Presidential Board of |
the WPC.

For previous information on Subject, please refer

ed..on7.
Peers FE

Source: ERE tengarran Press an)
istribution: . |

Original - FBI (Mr. Wannall) via
mo chrono
- extra copy |

- Production

epeeererevererererere retort ae reren tas)

;
|
|
{
t
i
i
i



13-00000

5 o B- 2628 —
* ' : : 21 GAY 1971

“) SUBJECT: Americans Attending the World Peace Council (WPC)
fine : Conference in budapest, Hungary, 13-16 May 1871

Bes : the following
Americans spoke at the indicatea committee meetings of the
WPC Conference:

he

3. In its final coverage on 18 May of the WPC Confer-
; ence, which ended 16 May, the Hungarian Press ‘made the
" following additional observations fees net United States
participants: ee | :

: A. Sidney PECK, identified as “USA Professor,"
i a spoke.on the war in Vietnam;

a
: /” -APPROVED FOR’ RELEASE
so ave 876



13-00000

B. The WPC awarded the JOLIOT-CURIE GOLD MEDAL
posthumously to the Reverend Martin Luther
KING. The medal-was accepted by the Reverend
Ralph ABERNATHY and the Reverend Wyatt T. :
WALKER, "an American peace fighter."" A photo-
graph of the presentation ceremony also included:
William DOUTHARD and Mrs. Addie WYATT as U. S.-
delegates to the Conference; .

“C. U.S. delegates Ruth GAGE-COLBY and sylvia
KUSHNER spoke at a meeting id Indochinese biisee
" American delegates; and

D. Americans Herbert APTHEKER and Cariton! GOODLETT. :
were re-elected to ‘the Presidential Board £
the WPC.

: “Please tr
ees by: i
‘Based on:

Source:
Distribution: , oa 7
Original - FBI. i via courier

wea eenaa

SE Bt pe a ee
aoe



13-00000 ~

tine! a ty

if
“e,  FORELON DISSEM; NO Sst ith

i a : - Bx 2628.
ui : : 24 GAY 1971

-| SUBJECT: Americans Attending the World Peace Council (wPec)
: Conference in Budapest, Hungary, 15-16 "May" 1871

1. A reliablé source has reported that the following:
Americans spoke at the indicated committee meetings of inen
WPC Conference:

A. Stanley~ FAULKNER, Committee on European, — an
. and Security; :

B. sylvia KUSHNER, ‘Committeé Ind china Aggression;

c:. John GILMAN, Committee: on. the. Near East, :

De Mary Angie- DICKERSON, ‘Section Meeting Discussing
oad Discrimination; ° :

All ‘of the above-named persons were. identifies speci ically
as members of the U. Ss. aula ohmic e

- 26 According. to the same source, 8. FAULKNER. Vice
ent ofthe American National ‘Lawyers’ Association, a
sw ETIo: onednas President. in.a meeting..of > Lawyer dglegates
to the “Congress and the American’ delegat’ Ybert: KAHN
tra slated” “a message from, the see ° t Rockwell
“to the Conference.” eo

34.,.In its final ‘coverage on 18. 8 Hay of! the. wee Confer=
ence, which ended 16. May, the Hungarian Press made the
following additional observations regarding United loi
participants: :

A. Eee PECK, ‘identified as MUSA Professor,”
spoke on the war in Vietnam;

“PULL TEXT COPY ~-BO NOT RELEASE

Exemnard ty aiteeasite)
oesgatieg asd

FOREIGN OSH DISA ABROAD aT]
poMer carry



Be

4. For previous information on Subject, please refer
to our teletype 3216, dated 14 ‘May 1971,
David ABERNATHY and Dr. Carlton GOODLETT.

Originated
Based on:

_-r9 May 71 (WPC/Sens/BW)
JXLANCE/Hungarian Press _
Distribution:

“ Original -

Source:

Dee bn Bed pak et ee et et

Ce

“WPC/Sens/BW

The WPC awarded the JOLIOT-CURIE GOLD MEDAL
posthumously to the Reverend Martin Luther
KING. The medal was accepted by the Reverend
Ralph ABERNATHY and the Reverend Wyatt T. 2
WALKER, an American peace fighter." A photo-
graph of the presentation ceremony also included *
William DOUTHARD and Mrs. Addie WYATT as U.S.-
delegates to the Conference;

U.S. delegates Ruth GAGE-COLBY and Sylvia
KUSHNER spoke at a meeting of Indochinese care
American delegates; and :

Americans Herbert APTHEKER and Cariton GOODLETT
were re-elected to the bi Shetcdiheece sdaaied of
the WPC. : i

Subject: _Ralph

‘Please transeait reply via: cactus chaenel
C1/SO:GMKLine:jm

016, 18 May 71 (WPC/Sens/BW) and 017,

by:

FBI (Mr. Wannall) via CI/SO courier
B memo chrono
extra copy

FAULKNER/Sens/GMK (201- 354414/GK)
KUSHNER/Sens/BW (201- 878516/BW)
GILMAN/Sens/BW (new)
DICKERSON/Sens/BW (201- 854982/BW)
GARZA/Sens/BW (new)
COLBY/Sens/GMK (201- 053968/GK)
KAHN/Sens/EC

KENT, Mrs./Sens/GK (201- 221724/GK)
PECK/Sens/BW (201-830466/BW)-*
KING/Sens/JD -(201-760966/JD)""" :
ABERNATHY/Sens/JD (201- 853022/ID)
WALKER/Sens/JD

DOUTHARD/Sens/BW (201-857634/BW)
WYATT/Sens/BW -

APTHEKER/Sens/BW .(201- 757176/BW)
GOODLETT/Sens/BW: (201- fceeae
Production Budapest

Production  JKLANGE.

NO FORDER aySSey ta Te AQROAD

ROBERT

