# 104-10127-10023

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10127-10023

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT ÖF 19928

03/37/03

SECRET

KLOLDENGE

FRP :

i?.

MÜN GILA 2140Z

STAFF

ACTIUN: C/LA8 (AB2)

INFO: DOPPED, VR, FILE, IG, RODES, CICES, CACIL.

C/CIVOCFL, CLEPS/COMP, CHEPS/EG-ZA C/EURED, C/OG/DMSA CAPES, CAPOSAPGLA

CAPM, D/OLE, ICS,

(36/n)

781047459

PAGE 001

TOR: 2721397 JUL 7B

111. 1047459

MEXI

46000

SECRET 2720.357 JUL 78 STAFF

CITE MEXICO CITY 4600D

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

WiNINTEL RYBAT

INS.

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 261715

B.

DIRECTOR 201709

C.

MEXICO CITY 45940 1022224

D. DIPECTOR

263821

1.

STATION HAS HAD MIXED RESULTS IN ITS EFFORTS TO LOCATE

AND SET UP INTERVIEWS BETWEEN THE THREE PERSONS SUBJECT REF B

WITH THE MSCA INVESTIGATORS. RAYMOND HO GERENDE HAS BEEN

CONTACTED AND AGREES TO MEET WITH THE INVESTIGATORS.

FINAL

ARRANGEMENTS WILL BE MADE WITH HIM ON Y AUG.

STATION CANNOT

LOCATE LIONION/S AND EDWARD GO TICHBORN IN MEXICO. IHEIR

NAMES DO NOT APPEAR IN MEXICAN IMMIGRATION RECORDS AS BEING

PRESENT IN THE COUNTRY.

2.

STATION CHECKED LAST KNOWN ADDRESS OF TICHBORN GIVEN

DIRECTOR 261710.

PRESENT OCCUPANT IS SRA. EMILIA LOPEZ AGUILAR

(NO RELATION) WHO DOES NOT KNOW TICHBORN. BUT DURING IHE YEAR

SHE HAS LIVED AT THIS ADDRESS, SHE HAS RECEIVED MANY TELEPHONE

CALLS FROM PERSONS INQUIRING AS TO HIS WHEREABOUIS.

WAS FROM A BANK IN GUADALAJARA TO ADVISE THAT TICHBORN WAS TO

RECEIVE AN INHERITANCE.

SHE HAS ALSO RECEIVED CALLS FROM DEBT

COLLECTORS REPRESENTING MEXICO CITY DEPARTMENT STORES.

ALSO RECALLED THAT NOT TOO LONG AGO, AN UNIDENTIFIED MEXICAN

NATIONAL CAME TO THE NETGHBOPHOOD INQUIRING ABOUT TICHBOPN AND

ALSO ATIEMPIED TO ELICIT INFORMATION FROM HER CHILDREN ABOUT

TICHBORN.

EFFORTS TO IDENTIFY PREVIOUS TENANTS AT THIS ADDRESS

IN HOPES THEY MAY HAVE SOME INFO HAVE BEEN UNSUCCESSFUL.

AGAlli,

REQUEST HOS TRACE TICHBORN THROUGH HIS

MOST RECENT ADDRESS IN

NEW YORK.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SECRET

STAFF

78 1047459

PAGE DOZ

TOR: 2721397 JUL 78

IN 1007454

MEXI 46000

3.

STATION OFFICER RECALLS THAT AT THE TIME OF LIONIONAI'S

TEKMINATION THAT PAYMENT OF HIS TERMINATION BONUS WAS TO BE

THIS PROCEDURE ADOPTED IN ORDER ENSURE THAT HE

MADE IN SPAIN THE PAYMENT NAS TO BE MADE BY A NADRID STATION!

LEFT MEXICO.

OFFICER OR OTHER DESIGNEE. AGAIN, SUGGEST STATION MADRIDJATTEMPT

LOCATE SUBJECT.

4.

EFFORTS TO LOCATE LICOOKYAL ALSO UNSUCCESSFUL. THERE

IS ONLY ONE PERSON WITH SAME SURNAME LISTED IN MEXICO CITY

TELEPHONE DIRECTORY. SHE ADVISED STATION THAT SHE HAS NEVER

HEARD OF LICOONY/S.

5, THE RECORDS OF CONSULATE IN MEXICO CITY WERE SEARCHED

BUT THERE IS NO RECORD OF LICOOKY/1, LIONIONAL, OR EDWARD G.

TICHBORN.

RESULTS FROM CHECKS IN OUTLYING CONSULAR DISTRICTS •

NOT YET AVAILABLE.

D. ATTEMPTING CONFIRM AVAILABILITY OF ACCOMODATIONS REQUESTED

PARA

4 REF B FOR T AND A AUGUST, WILL ADVISE.

RESERVATIONS HAVE BEEN MADE FOR CAPTAIN GOODING AT THE

HOTEL BRISTOL FOR & THROUGH 10 AUGUST.

STATION PLANS MEET

CAPT. GOODING AT. THE MEXICO CITY AIRPORT AFTER HE DEPANTS CUSTOMS

AREA, SUGGEST HE HOLD HIS OFFICIAL PASSPORT IN PIGHT MAND TO

FACILITATE IDENTIFICATION.

NO FILE. EZ IMPDET.

END

OF MESSAGE

SECRET

---

