4104-10186-10275]

3p

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

& AGENCY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENC

‘This material coataine taformathen stecting the Natlcaal Detense.of ine TATA States within the moaning of the Exptonace Lawa THe
1B UBC Bees TH and TH, the trackmlason vf revelation of which in act aaaner to aa unauthorteed person Le protitited By law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSE :

COUNTRY Cuba i REPORT NO. CSCI 316/00693-64
SUMECT Jose FERNANDEZ DATE OisTR: 21 August 1964
: - NO. PAGES 3
+ REFERENCES
i pate oF 1964 - =
INFO.
pace & Washington, D.C. :
DATE aca. August 1964 ELD REPORT NO.

THIS 15 UNEVALUATED INFOUMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS AG CEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE,

source:~A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban
Intelligence Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes suppiémental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency. :

Source identified a photograph of Comandante Jose
FERNANDEZ and said that his nickname is "El Gallego."
FERNANDEZ is the chief of all army training schools from
cadets up. He is not connected with Cuban Intelligence.1,2,3,4,5,6,

’

Headquarters Comments

1. Ina report dated 11 May 1960, from an untested source,

J it was reported that one Jose FERNANDEZ, possibly identical ;
with the above Subject, was a Cuban Ambassador on an
arms buying missions in Rome.

2. In June 1962 a Cuban national, untested, whose father was
an old army friend of Jose FERNANDEZ, aka "El Gallego,”
reported the following information:

FERNANDEZ is Chief of Artillary Schools in Habana
Province; he frequently gives lectures on artillery
weapons at a School for Meabers of the Western Army
(La Escuela para los Membres de Ejercito Occidente).

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

= Tow Tawar Tra Tara Trea Tet Toca

marwal
HNeee

seats iN 3
(Note: Feld duteibution indicated by “2 “2 E 1

fi, eaCron i warack Tit crea —P- ANAS — J x-1639
FV aaa 9 RT a ke aaa x eaeeeaiee, PROJECT ( AMMUG {1)
oe t 7 S ei ee CSCI-316/00 =
H/SA/CL Al +} RIDZAN Fi - aa 14 peace
‘wave iL ion : Jcoomarnariwe] neue aay

vers WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RIDI faux: £0,



. § RET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-2-
He was a captain in the army during BATISTA's time

and was in prison for his party in the 4 April Movement
until his release by CASTRO. FERNANDEZ was not known

to be a Communist and, at the time of this report (1962),
was not considered to be onc. He attended artillery
schools in the United States (dates and places unknown) and
speaks English-well. He is well educated and well —
trained for the- position he holds. He +s often referred
to as "El Gallego Fernandez." FERNANDEZ allegedly

eas Chief of the operation against the invaders of

Playa Giron in April 1961. He was described as having
been born about 1921, being six feet one inch tall,

185 pounds, ‘having light grayish eyes, light brown

hair, a fair complexion, white even teeth, and an oval
face. He speaxs with a Castillian accent.

A fairly reliable source, tn a report dated 17 July 1962,

stated that Major Jose Ramon FERNANDEZ was the Chief of the

Seccion Preparacion y Organizacion Combativa (Section for

the Preparation and Organization of Warfare - SPOC), the :
Cuban Army's key man for defense against invasion, and the” ~
military brains of the country. He had access to all secret
information, FERNANDEZ received his instructions exclusively
from Fidel and Raul CASTRO with whom he is in personal contact.
He received his military education in the United States. He is
intelligent and reportedly not a Communist.

A Cuban national, untested, reported in September 1962, that
the facilities of the Military Academy at Camp Managua were
being utilized as a training center for officers, officer—
candidates and non-commissioned officers. Major Jose FERNANDEZ,
aka "El Gallego," has an office on the ground floor of the first
building as you enter the camp. FERNANDEZ and a General Enrique
LISTER prepared all the training schedules, pamphlets, and
training aides, as well as joint exercises in which air ground
(armor and infantry) have participated.

In a 14 November 1962 report, an untested source said that
Comandante ‘(fnu) FERNANDEZ is the only Cuban official who
1s completely within the confidence of the Soviets with

respect to the military fortifications of the Habana area.

An| in a report dated 18 May 1963,
stated that an unidentified “usually reliable source id
that Major Jose Ramon FERNANDEZ, known as “El Gallego," is
the one who made the preparation for CASTRO's trip to the

. Soviet Union in February 1963. FERNANDEZ arrived in Habana

from Moscow two days before CASTRO's surprise departure.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

aso?


7,

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEW

-3-

A fairly reliable source, in a report dated 7 August 1963,
stated that she die aot think FERNANDEZ vas a Communist as. he
has always had Catholic tendencies but that he is a correct
soldier and puts the military above everything. He is divorced
and hts ex-wife is iiving in Miami with their two daughters,

- Francis, born in 195i, and Alicia, born in 1955. ,

A source who is a high ranking Cuban ailitary officer who has
good contacts amoig Cuban officials (he has not submitted many
reports, but they appear to have been accurate) reported in

September 1963 that Major Jose Ramon FERNANDEZ Alvarez, Chief

.of Training, General 'Staff of the Cuban Rebel Army, is anti-

Communist and a military type in the strictest sense of the
word. He sticks to his military duties and scrupulousl
avoids politics; he keeps himself completely isolated from
all political elements. He is proud of his present status
and thankful to CASTRO for it; for fear of losing it he
appears uAwilling to undertake any kind of activity against
the CASTRO regime. CASTRO is undoubtedly Knowledgeable of

FERNANDEZ" attitude and has sufficient confidence in him to

retain him in his present position. CASTRO also is aware ?
that he has few officers with the military discipbine,

know-how, and experience possessed by FERNANDEZ.

