# 104-10113-10428

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10113-10428

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

T

TO:

NSMITTAL SLIP

03

Miss Detera

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

GF-31

idarse

REMARKS:

DATE

6-8-66

Please set up a MS file on

Edward Jay EPSTEIN

and forward sane to me. Thank you.

FROM: I. Pinan

ROOM NS

UILDIN

Idars

FORE: 59-241

PITCHES TOE LED.

EXTENSION

#GFO: 1857-0-499445

---

## Page 2

SECRET

(When Filled In)

NAME OF SURJEC

FILE NO.

KEY TO ANALYSIS SYMBOLS*

NI = MOT IDENTICAL

I-ND = IDENTIQAL - MOT DEROGATORY

U-ND=UNABLE/TO IDENTIFY-MOT DEROGATORY

SA = SEE-A

TAR

MEMORANDUM

SARCH INST

ANTIONS

ANCH

MAMES AS MAI

TTEN

ASSELAME VARIATIONS

(ocord kng to ex lat)

SRD/CAB ANALYSIS OF FILES

NO.

(TO

De compilled by roqueater)

SEARCH OVERT CARDS ONLY

SEARCH COVERT CARDS ONLY

SEARCH SUBJECT CARDS ONLY

-SEARCH ALL CARDS

PAGE

RESULTS

2

NAME

LAST, FIRST, MIDDLE (TyPe or print)

epstein,

Edward gay

OVERT

12

COVERT

3

4

Hariti l carrentl

6

7

8

9

10

NO.

/

FILE NO.

ТУРЕ

C

NAMES CONTINUED ON ATTACHED SHEET

REFERENCE DOCUMENT

PAGE ANALYSIS," OR CHARGEOUT

Tressen - sien titt

Прав гії .

4:25/5:21

2201-Mtiats

EQUESTER

(Name • Component

RESULTS CONTINUED OM REVERSE SIDE

SRS

INDICES SEARCH REQUEST

TiP

6/8166

DATE COMPLETED

Velen

• 745 FAC

01173.

APPROVE

FOR FILING

(Initiale)

SECRET

(38-43)

---

## Page 3

4-00000

TR

TO:

SMITTAL SLIP

8 June 1966

ROOM NO.

Helene Finan

BUILDING

REMARKS:

EpSTEIN, EDWARD

VAY

NYC

1935

Connell BA MA

Harrard Phe Suproces

FROM:

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

EXTENSION

FEEB 59•241

EPLACES FORM 36-

VHICH MAY BE USED

#l ENO: 1957-0-499245

(07)

---

## Page 4

14-00000

8 June 1966

HIMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: EPSTEIN, Edward Jay

The Sunday Edition of THE NEW YORK TIMES of 6 June 1966 contained

the attached clipping

of a book based on a Cornell University Master's thesis "Inquest" by

Subject.

A search of Security Indices and sources available in the Agenoy

Library has been unproductive which is not surprising that EPSTEIN 18

thirty-one years of age and must have spent about the last eight years

as a university student at Cornell and Harvard Universities.

he book has the name oi an agency employee who hasbeen concerne

ith the Oswald case, namely Ray Rocoi.. Due to this surfacing or a

Agency employee Edward EPSTEIN and his sources are of importance to the

Heleni

Helene Finan

Finan

lacen zan offerent degene, Ceases

Yes.

to Commension teries

SEET

---

