# 104-10310-10008

## Page 1

AAAA

1104-10310-1000

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

DD/P 4.2152

2,9 APR 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief

United States Secret Service

SUBJECT!

REFERENCE.

Information Collation by Computer

C5C1-3/779,271, Dated 24 Decerabes

1963, Same Subject

1. Referent memorandum furniahed you with information

en a computer syatem developed by thie Agency and IBM tO

permit atarago and collatlos of counterintelligence information.

The memorandum also offered brleftage and deranastrations, as

well as the actual machtno prograsas militen to date, ll you so

desired.

2. More recently, we have been approached by IBM with

a request for release to your service al blographle skatches on

certala IBM employees who have worked on the davelopment of

our computar systems.. These skatches, which have been class!-

flad to protoct information on our servlce, are stilchod.

3. On 16 April 1964, a bilefing was given the President'e

Commlasion on the Assassination ol President Keanedy,

deseribing our recarás procedares: The Commisslon was

particularly interested in machlae processlag of data, and la

posalble relatlonships between your servlee and ouza. It certainly

would seem wise, ta our oplales, that any ranchine ayateras

developed by the two agenclos should be compatibio, to persalt

machine querles and possibly eschange of data In machine tanguage.

CROC? 1

congreding and

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

4.

It le therefore suggested that we provide your Service

with a detalled explanation and demonstration al lts machine

collation prograra. Although the program is far from perfected.

Is has encoantered and surmounted a varlety of problems. Your

Service la of course welcorne to share la oux experience, whlch

It appears would be of halp at this point in your development of

= machine callation systera.

(Signed) Rickard Helms

RIchard Helmos

Deputy DITECTOI fOI PlANS

C5GI-3/781,077

Attachment - a/s

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

- DDP

1 - C/DDP/SG

1 - RID

1 - CI/LIA

1 - CI/R&A

1 - CI/R&A/Bender} 03

Originated by: CI/R&A/ILBenderpm

28 April 1964

SECTET

Ye,

---

