F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 }.

“(404-10171-10078,

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN

Bstas.bray
eee This Agency seintsino'an infot mal worklag relsiica sith tha -
i prigcipal lcadag cf tao JOKY, Our Amareat in the JGAS aaa act iryas.
 tablaes Buihiciently to nase On Goliata ot enF tute eset this
Or g@inigatiea: ©. ae :
0 Fae. DRE se of isterest to'thia Agenzy, whieh opiasaré and.
Sugports lis -propagends and inteliigence cailection activity directed’
Bgatact Cada and Soiected areas 13 tin wa i 3 aK
mibtary action 'Is. ‘Scoter:plaled for tke for
Bas bon lators.ed taal auleds thety gerailtaiy actions are epecifie
: “aly approved in. eaves by tus -Agensz, thoy will be subjestto :
I Dr ovsative activa aad prosecution hy tha aporenriate Uasted states’
: Gevarauiead agentios. Ag tho DRE te ict a grow mdsr complete”
j : Ageaty control, tuo: absye dose ‘net tagare thet thoy will nct‘ameertass
! loclated paraint tery operations oliise! prier nctisicetea,

i Sacept tar a continulag couterintelligence intercat ie tae pore
i onnal'and activity of tho SYNE, thio Agancy bas 50 further tatezest,
This Agamcy.to not in cuntnet with ibe croup and,’ tn fect, matmiaina
| @ “aaads ati” policy toward it G2cewt B Covaterinteliccace merests
Gletate, Tho SF Nz 19 distrusted and highly suspect is tho oes vi the
Cusan enle somuually, 06 985 recently enphaalsed Dy the distiosure
ef ita comsadant's sederebip of extencibie Alpha 86 actice,



seers es

is We, somaat j grey, “eh Bea pattiscant pereceit ‘wR have
$0. Ai GUTSREES' eeay

a : . ~ Bie tho exesption tuo intardés 1a tha DAB and.an tatorece)
Bae Telaiies with the principal wader of tas JURE go eaplained above,

this Ageaty bes no carsest oF peading qe sreitonal interest ia.cay of

= S7eeps end, ag atated Aa thin Ageaty's Her te you 94:18 Sep- i

lenin? 16a, bad a objection to Lavesti guts Sone ao prove ont Ble
Setividies og thy Fedsral Duras of Invosigstion,
S Htentfylay dita on tis leaders ond members of the dissident :
Stemesi ol Alpaa 66, a9 requested in your beter cf 31 December 1963,
“are. Ssing e2cowbied nad will bs dorearded ta you ts occa ap available.

Sxcorely,

$ : cee ‘ : ‘Csaezal Counsel



poet) chyta redrlenseacans med 0 ary 1968)

sed EEN, tw”
