(o4-10220-10714 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

i TRANSMITTAL
i TOCS INFORMATION REPORT OF

-. | CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI/D, FI, FI/INT 6, IW, CA 2, CA/PHG, DODS, WE 4, WH 25 7

a [roomie | | ee

(0. eri, OED
WAVE 4343 (IN-19696)
(EMSHLAM-1)
4 Lialsoa *

acc a 7

“i
HANOLING INS iRUCTIONS

CONTROLLED, DISSEM

GS INTERNAL USle ONLY

Cromer mene warner HE OR nad TING OFFICERS)

AUN ERNEATING GFRICTR

Gere.



oe core t oe oe
Be aca A eeimican erecta Seah on ian ta wy

countayCUBA/LATIN AMERICA MroRT NO. TOCS DB-3/656,669
sumer VISIT GY FORWR CUDAN PRESIDENT CARLOSoAIE Ost, 16 SEFTEBSR 1969
PRIO SOCARRAG TO LATIN AYSRICAN COUNTRIES
preceoence ROUTINE

oarmeor AL SEFTEAROR 1963 REFERENCES. IN-219696
INFO,
PLACE B THD STATES, MIAME

DATE ACO. SEPFTEM"ER 1963)
AMIRAISAL
qu IALUATED inForMa tion, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE
SOURCE ARYY OFF: x LAS C
SRO CUusAN “BxXTUSS. se "S RELTAGILITY CANNCT BE
fae 1, ENSURE DEPARTING MIAMI, ¥XORYOA, BY AIR FOR CARACAS,

YE E7UNLA, ON 11 SPPPEYEFS 1963 PIWTR CUVAN PRESIDENT CARLOS

PRIO DSOCARRAS TALKED WITH FORMER CERAN: COLONEL PEDRO VALDIVIA,

PRE) SALD CHAT BE MAD LNSTRUCTIONS AnD WAS CARRYING A RESSAGE oe

. FaCs PORVER NICARAGUAN PRESIDEAT LUIS SOMCZA TO THE CHIRSS OF :

THE “OEYCCRATIC LAPT";  PRESLDENT ROMULO BETANCOURT OF VENEZUELA,

PRSSIDS: 7 JUAN BOSCH OF TES DOD

NIGAN REPUCLIC, FOR

RICAN FR

UT GOSE FICGERAS, AND COVERNOR LUT

cP OR.

NS PURSGZY OF KIS TRIP, PRLO SAL,



IOCSB-3/656 ,669

THE PROPER PROSPECTIVE. PRIO WILL TRY TO CONVINCE THEM THAT
SOWERODY HAS TO ELIMINATE COMMUNISM, PRIO SAID THAT SOMOZA IS
NOW BECOMING THE LEADER IN LATIN AMERICA BECAUS© OF THE ROLE HE

IS PLAYING AGAINST FIDEL CASTRO.
3. AFTER THREE DAYS. IN CARACAS, PRIO WIL. VISIT ROSCH.

UPON HIS RETURN TO MIAMI, PRIO WILL TRY TO WORK OUT A CONCILIATION

BETWEEN ANTONIO DE VARONA, LEADER OF RESCATE DEYCCRATICO
REVOLUCIONARIO (REVOLUTIONARY DFYOCRATIC RESCUZ), AND MANUEL
ARTIMS, LEADER OF THE MOVIMIENTO DR RECUPERACIGN REVOLUCIONARIA
(CMBR, MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY), SO THAT THEY CAN
WORK TOGRTESR ON ‘ak "SOMOZA PLAN."

4, FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT.

END OF MESSAGE

CONTROLLEA DISSE

prey

(© sINUATION OF TOCS INFORMATION REPC
