# 104-10012-10018

## Page 1

104-10012-10018

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SHET

att c

8 viay 1967

MEVORANDUM NO. 2

SUBJECT

: GARRISON and the Kennedy Assasslaation

REFERENCE : CI/R&A Memorandum of 26 April 1967.

subject as above

1. An effort has bees made to identify all CIA employees in New

Orleans, so that we shall have a ready checkliat if District Attorney

GARRISON makes statements about any of them to the preas, attempts to

bring charges against them or to subpoena them, or take otber action

disadvantageoua to CIA. This list, because of ita sensitivity, is included

as Enclosure 28 with anly those coples of this memorandam which are

addressed to the ADDP and the Legal Counsel.

2.

The remainiag enclosures to this memoranium constitute an

alphabetical listing of key figures in the case to date. One person, an

Izvestla correspondent who appears as Enclosure 4 to reference, has

been dropped as peripheral. Enclosures 5, 10, 21, 23 and 24 to tais

memorandum are additions to the earlier list. Negative trace entries

("RI - no record"') are repeated from reierence as appropriate. Of the

25 persons and one firm listed in the current enclosures, traciag has been

completed on 19. It is expected that results on the remaining ? will be

available sbortly.

3. Information from WH/Cuban Operationa Branch, prepared in

response to reference, will be available soon and will be included in the

next report. The New Orleans office of the Domestic Contact Service is

clipping and forwarding pertinent items from the local press.

SECRET

Can. its aulamatic

cowagrading sad

desiassiticattos

---

## Page 2

13-00000 -

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1902

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW FROGRA

Enclosure 1

SUBJECT : Dean Adams ANDREWS, JX.

1.

RI - no record.

2. Additional iniormation follows:

a.

The New Orleans States-Item of 3 March 1967 reported

that ANDREWS had said that he did not know whether Clay SHAW and

Clay BERTRAND were the same person.

b.

An article in the New Orleans Times Picayune of 19

April 1967 concerns a $100, 000 suit brought by Dean Adams ANDREWS,

JI., against GARRISON, who had praviously indicted ANDREWS for

perjury. ANDREWS claims that he has told GARRISON "that there

was no connection between Clay SHAW and Clay BERTRAND"'.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CLA HISTORICAL REVIEW FROGRAM

SUBJECT:

Sergio ARCACHA Smith

1.

Ri - no record.

2.

No additional information.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

APPAO. 20 FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTORICNE REVIEN FROGRAM

SUBJECT : Guy BANISTER

Enclogure 3

1.

RI: CSCI-3764414, 30 March 1961, reported Subject as a

former FEI member, owner of a detective agency in New Orleans, and a

member of Friends of Democratic Cuba, Inc.

• 2. No new information.

Subject is dead.

-SEBRET

---

## Page 5

13÷00,000

Enclosure 4

SUBJECT :

Leslie Norman BRADLEY (201-727878)

1.

RI: An examination of BRADLEY's 201 flle shows him to be

a soldier of fortune and free-lance pilot who was arrested by the Cuban

C-2 in Havana on 24 May 1960. Held on the Isle of Pines, BRADLEY

collaborated with his captors in all respects. He lured the Nicaraguan

leader, Chester LACAYO, to Cuba so that he could be arrested. BRADLEY

is an unscrupulous adventurer who will do anything for money. After his

release and return to the U.S. he approached the families of several men

still on the Isle of Pines with requests for funds allegedly to be used to

liberate the prisoners. He was briefly considered for employment as a

co-pilot in Project ZRCLIFF and filled out a personal information fores,

but the offer of employment was cancelled.

2.

No further information from other sources.

SEBRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

ALeelen Ferrer her: 1392

...:

Enclosure 5

SUBJECT

Edward S. BUTLER

?.

3.

See Paragraph T.a, of reference.

RI traces in progress.

No additional information to date.

BERET

---

## Page 7

13-00000

APFROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HIETORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Enclosure 6

SUBJECT:

Carlos Jose BRINGUIER

RI: DBA-55777, 25 October 1963, lists BRINGUIER, from

1934,

as a businessman, Cuban, Living in New Orleans at 501 Adele Street,

Apartment I, and as director of the Cuban Student Directorate for the

New Orleans area.

2.

No additional information to date.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

-NET

APPROYED FOR RELEASE 1952

CLA MISTORICAL REVIEW PREGRAM

SUBJECT : Vernon BUNDY

1. RI - no record.

2. No further information.

Enclosure 7

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET

AFPROVED FOR RELEASE 199½

CIA NISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Inclosure R

ЗВЕСТ :

Julio or Julien BUZNEDO

1.

2.

Ri - no

record.

No further information.

SESHET

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SUBJECT :

APPROVED FOR RELENSE 1992

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

David William FERRIE

Enclosure 9.

2.

RI - no identifiable traces.

No additional substantive information. Subject is dead.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1942

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

SUBJECT : Alberto FOWLER

2.

See Paragraph 7.b. of reference.

RI traces in progress.

3. No further information.

Esclosure 10

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SUBJECT :

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Manuel GARCIA Gonzalez

1.

RI - no traces.

2. No further information.

Enclosure ll

---

## Page 13

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CAN HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Enclosure 12

SUBJECT:

James/GARRISON

1. RI: Tracing continuing.

2. The following additional information has been obtained since

reference:

a.

The New Orleans States-Item of 3 March 1967 stated that

New York radio station WINS said that it had learned from reliable

sources that GARRISON believes that President Kennedy was

assassinated by "a group of plotters directed from Cuba." WINS

reporter Doug Edelson said that the source bas access to GARRISQN's

files and that, according to the files, "after an abortive CIA invasion

of Cuba, Castro put out an execution order on the President."

b.

A memorandum of l May 1967 by Mr. Richard H.

Lansdale, Associate General Counsel, advises that GARRISON

"Intends to demand that CIA furnish him with the photograph of Oswald

eptering or exiting the Mexico City Embassy."

c.

James Phelan is the author of the lead article in the

Saturday Evening Post of 6 May 1967, headed "A Plot to Kill Kennedy?

Rush to Judgment in New Orleans''. The following key points chiefly

concern GARRISON:

(1) Phelan knew GARRISON in 1963, when he spent

ten days with him, obtaining material for a laudatory piece

called, "The Vice Man Cometh"'.

(2)

GARRISON and Phelan met in Las Vegas on 5 and

6 Marco 1967, and Phelan conducted ten hours of interviews.

GARRISON gave Phelan a memorandum of an interview con-

ducted with Perry RUSSO by Andrew J. SCIAMBRA, "a 31-yeaI-

old assistant D.A. just a year out of law school" who interviewed

RUSSO for three hours and took copious notes. GARRISON also

gave Phelan a transcript of what RUSSO said four days later, on

1 March 1967, while under hypnosis. The SCIAMBRA report

---

## Page 14

13-00000

triade no mention si a plot amonz OSWALD, FERRIE, and

SHAW to kill anyone.

The 3, 50J-word roport also made no

reference to a party at FERRIE's apartment. it did not

contain a positive identification oi Lee Harvey OSWALD as

"Leor'' OSWAID. Shown a picture of Clay SHAW, RUSSO had

not identified him as 'BERTRAND". The SCIAMSRA report

specitied that RUSSO had seen SHAW only twice. It did not

say that SHAW

knew OSWALD.

(3) On 27 February 1967, according to a second

SCIAMBRA report, RUSSO was given sodium pentothal and

then "did make passing reference to the paity at which the

plot was discussed"', but did so only aiter prompting by

SCIAMBRA, who wrote, "I then asked him if he could remem-

ber any of the details about Clay Bertrand being up in FERRIE's

apartment."

(4) Two days later DI. Esiond FATTER placed

RUSSO under hypnosis (he did so three times in all). When

RUSSO made no mention of a party or plot, FATTER directed

him to see "a picture of FERRIE's apartment and there are

several people in there and there is a white-haired man. Tell

me about it. " RUSSO complied but made no mention of SHAW,

"BERTRAND", or a plot. FATTER then ordered him to see

this picture: "There will be Bertrand, Ferrie and Oswald and

they are going to discuss a very important matter and there is

another man and girl there and they are talking about assassina

ting somebody. Look at it and describe it to me.!: RUSSO

then told the story that be subsequently gave in testimony.

(5) Phelan advised GARRISON of the profound differences

between the first SCIAMBRA report and the eventual RUSSO

testimony, GARRISON permitted Phelan to question SCIAMBRA

directly, in GARRISON's presence. SCIAMBRA said that be

must have forgotten to include the party and its participants.

When Phelan suggested consulting his original notes, SCIAMBRA

said that he bad burned them. Phelan asked Di. FATTER.

where he got the information used in questioning RUSSO under

hypnosis, and FATTER said it came from GARRISON's office.

---

## Page 15

13-00000

...

v..;

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CLA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

SUBJECT:

Pascual GONGORA

Enclosure 13

1. RI - No record.

2 No further information.

STORET

---

## Page 16

13-00,000

Enclosure 14

SUBJECT : Nerin Emullah GUN

(201-097525)

RI: The 201, listed above, will be studied. GUN, born

22 February 1920 in Rome, is a suspected CP member who has been

involved in Europe in espionage and falsification of documenta.

2.

No other additional information since reference.

SECRET

---

## Page 17

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1392

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW FROGRAM

SEGRET

Enciosure 15

SUTJECT

William BURVICH

1.

2.

RI - No record.

3o additional iniormatioa.

---

## Page 18

13-00000

wi!

SUBJECT

:

SECRET

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTORICAL FEVIEW PROGRAM

S.J, KAUFFROTE

Inciosira 15

RI - No Jecord.

No further incormation.

..

SECRET

---

## Page 19

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW FROGRAM

Enclosure 17

SUBJECT :

2.

David F. LEWIS

RI - No record..

No furtber information.

SECRET

---

## Page 20

13-00000

SUBJECT

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Layton Patrick MARIENS

Enclosure 13

1.

z.

RI - No record.

No further information.

BitT

---

## Page 21

13-00000

SUBJECT :

SUAL

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1902

Baclosure 19

CLA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Mrs. Lillie McMAINES

(i/w Sandra MOFFETT, enclosuze No. 13 of reference)

1.

RI - No record of Sandra MOFFITT. Traces are being run

on Mrs. Lillie MeMAINES.

2. The New York Times of 27 April 1967 stated, "A fugitive from

justice complaint - filed against Mrs. Lillie Vclaines - was dismissed

1n Municipal Court luesday aiter she reiused to leave Iowa to appear in

court. "

---

## Page 22

13-000,00

SUBJECT :

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTORICAL REMEW FROGRAM

Gordon Duane NOVEL

Inclosure 20

1. RI - No record.

2. The following additional information has been obtained since

the date of reference:

The New Orleans Times Picayune of 19 April 1967 states

that Gordon Duane NOVEL (see Enclosura 19 of reference), then living

in Columbus, Obio, was the subject of extradition charges signed

17 April 1967 by Acting Governor C.C. Aycock. The chaiges concern

conspiracy to burglarize the munitions bunker at Houma, Louisiana,

in 1961. On 18 April 1967 NOVEL stated in an article copyrighted by

the Dallas Dally News that GARRISON is conducting his probe to

further his political career. "The whole GARRISON investigation

thing is fiction," NOVEL added.

"I know the full story from working

as the prosecutor's security chief." GARRISON, however, has said

that NOVEL never worked for him. NOVEL added, "I think GARRI-

SON will expose some CIA operations in Louisiana."

b.

The New Orleans States-Item of 25 April 1967 states that

NOVEL, "has told a number of friends and intimates he was a CIA

operative and will use this zoie to battle GARRISON's charges . . •

if he is returned to New Orleans to face accusationg that he burglarized

an oil service company's munitions bunker in nearby Terzebonne

Parish." Steven PLOTKIN, attorney for NOVEL, refused to confirm

or deny his client's statements.

Sergio ARCACHA Smith (see En-

closure 2 of reierence) is also accused by CARRISON of helping to

plan the theft of the munitions. The article adds, "To friends and

associates, NOVEL, has said that the munitions burglary was no

burglary at all -- but a war materials pickup made at the direction

of his CIA contact. " He has described the Houma bunker as a CIA

cache for munitions destined for use in the April 1961 invasion at the

Bay of Pigs. NOVEL has claimed that he worked for CIA in New

Orleans before April 1961. "Part of his job, he contends, was to

operate the Evergreen Advertising Agency as a front for CIA

communications.

With funds funneled to him by the CIA, NOVEL

---

## Page 23

13-000,00

...

says he prepared special radio commercials used on 300 stations

in the U,S. and Canada. Their cryptographic messages, he claims,

were to alert agents to the invasion date. The commercials advei-

tised aluminum Christmas trees, he says, and the key alert code

names were 'Star Chriatmas Irees' and 'Holiday Trees'. In late

1960, 972, 000 worth of radio time was placed by the agency. On the

day the munitions were to be picked up, be gays, he was called by his

CIA contact and told to join a group which was ordered to transport

munitions from the bunker to New Orleang. . . . He says he made

the trip in his own automobile, a Lincoln, and met several people

there -- all of them allegedly acting for the CIA. He identifies

them as FERRIE, ARCACHA, several Cubans, and another figure in

the case. Thay loaded the boxes of ordnance on trucks, he continues,

and returned to New Orleans where the explosives were dropped in

three spots -- FERRIZ's home, NOVEL's office building, and the

office of... former FBI agent. • • Guy BANISTER {see Exclosure

3 of Ieference). NOVEL claims the munitions were eventually taken

by boat to Cuba for a diversionary Bay of Pigs operation, GARRISON,

however, says the burglary occurred three months aiter the Bay of

Pigs. He adds that the Houma bunker was leased by the Schlumberger

Well Services Co. of Houston, Texas. "Schlumberger officials say

they know nothing of any CIA operations is connection with their

magazine, where oil field service equipment and certain low-yield

explosives are stored. "

c.

An AP wire dispatch of 26 April 1967 from New Orleans

adds, "In Columbus, NOVEL said today that 'the statements that I

worked for the CIA are absolutely incorrect. . . The events of

1961, the Bay of Pigs invasion, are none of anybody's business,

including MI. GARRISON'3.""

3. RI has no record of the Evergreen Advertising Agency. There

is, however, a record of "Evergreen Interprise, " listed as "cover for

illegal activities". The pertinent document will be obtained and studied.

2

SEORET

---

## Page 24

13-00000

--971

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Inclosure 21

SUBJECT : Carlos QUIROGA

1.

2.

See para. ?c of refarence.

RI - traces in progress.

3. No further information.

SEGRET

---

## Page 25

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1S52

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Enclosure 22

SUBJECT : Perry RUSSO

1.

2.

RI - no record.

Additional information appears in Inclosure 12, above.

---

## Page 26

13-00000

APPROVES FOR RELEASE 1992

CLA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Enclosure 23

SUBJECT : Emilio SANTANA

1.

2.

Saa para. Te of reference.

Ri - traces are in progress.

3.

No further information.

GEORET

---

## Page 27

13-00000

APPROVED FOR PILEASE LEAR

CIA HISTORICAL REVIW PROCRAM

225103179 24

SUBJECT:

The SCHLUWBERGER wall Surrying

Corporadion

T'hure ara antenaira CLA traces on this corspany and 0z

various persons connected wita it, bus sone of this laforsation la

partment so the GARRISON investigation.

1 report al 20 April 1957 from the New Orleans office

ol the I3l aratas that a confidential source tbo in a reproacstative

d1 31011-510795 nets media sudd en 20 April that Gordon NOVEL

sas reporiadly stalad that as was eraployed by Cit and that the

Houma burglary yan 30s an arilal bargiary. Ho contended that als

had an arrasgament with the 3CHLUMBERGER 50, (ses below) io

tep annuition, bomo casiago, sad other materiai in the braker,

leased by SCHLUMBURGER. He said that he and Sargio ARGAGHA

Smith were still employed by CIA, "The soures atrinad that accord-

ing to information dersioped to date Schlumbergez becama spsst

0rex pha Bay a1 Piga invasion and masted to got sor ai taelz contract

nich the cl. Arrangeronts were made about threa racatas alar

the ..invasion los the -•material. ..to be taken out by Noral and hia

Втор, "

3.

The Domestic Contact SErvice (DOS) laformed Cl/REA

on, 27 April 1967 thas the New Orleans office of the SCHLUMBERGER

Well Streying Corporation is a brasca of tae main alics 1s 13oustan.

Tesss. Tha corapany, howarti, ls frence-owned. The DCS vifice

in New Orlazas was la toach with Charlas 1, DOH, district masages

Di the Mes CIleass SCHLUMABRGAR difica, la order to laterrian bim

about a budinasa trip ¿a homo la Juse 1955, There has bees ao sabsa-

quent contact. Homerst, tha DOS has bees and still la in touca with

---

## Page 28

13-00000

ÜGHLUMBERGER and Co, in Houston and subsidiary viices else-

Whars. The 10se recall of such cantacts occurred an 22 March

1967 in Minneapolis. ¡ll contin muat do approved by the sala

SCHLUMBARGER OfiCE. Because o1 Irench costral, Dis dealings

•vita tha firen have boes cizcusaspees.

÷.

Ibe Clice of Sacurity also aúvised on 27 :pril 1967 thai

jestioning of lour employees aí le Ullce of Logistics los 820w1

tiat the only arran buater is tha Na» Orlears ares adod by ClA 13a

lho Bello Chissa snunilos Depot, a deactivatod Navy installation

eight tailos 1r0m Now Orleass, 'Ihere is so prasent reason to bellaro.

that the "gency has boes associated in asy way wita tha Hora sir

Base buzicer.

---

## Page 29

13-00000

MATTERHED FOR RELESSE 1992

CIA MISTONICAL REVEN PROGRAM

Inclosure 25

SUBJICT : Clay L. SHAW (201-313493)

1.

Summary of RI file appears in Enclosure Zl to

reference.

The New Orleans States - Item of 2 March 1967

reported the arrest on 1 March of Clay L. SHAW and his release

on bond. The article described SHAW as "a decorated Army

major in World War Il...."

3.

The New Orleans States - Item of 3 March 1967 said

that SHAW had said that he had never used the name Clay

BERTRAND, that he had never mat FERRIE, that he had never

conspired to assassinate the President, and that he had never

known OSWALD.

---

## Page 30

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1552

CLA HISTORICAL REVIEW FROGRAF

SUBJECT :

1 .

Edward Stewart SUGGS, alias

JackS. MARTIN

RI - no record.

2. No further information.

Enclosurs 25

---

## Page 31

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

SUBJECT : Miguel Silva TORRES

1.

RI - no record.

2. No further information.

Enclosure 27

---

## Page 32

13-000,00

Enclosure 28

It has been dete mined that the following components and

individual employees of ClA are currently based in Naw Orleans

or, as noted separately, were there in late 1963.

New Orleans office of Domestic Contact Service:

2.

Mr. Lloyd A. Ray.

b.

Mr. Hunter Leake.

c.

iiss Dorothy Brandao.

d.

MI. G.D. Geisenheimer.

e. Misa Gertrude Nagel.

(Miss Jeanne Fernandez was also employed by

this office as of November 1963, the time of the

assassination.)

2. Offico of Persomel:

MI. William Wood, a recruiter stationed in

Waco, Texas, covered the New Orleans area in 1963.

3. WH/6:

has a or, Wilver Kant, pretenty in Vas Orlead.

4. Office of Security:

Mr. Chester Bolling has Department of Defense

cover.

SECRET

---

