V0a-1043 10831- 40706 : 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 pe

ek
Saeee tea,

THROUGH . Deputy Director for Operations :
a ‘Deputy Director for Administration :
FROM . Charles A. Briggs, DDO Information Review Office

SUBJECT

Issue: To a growing degree; newsmen; scholars and others,

“¢, Studies, are better organized..than the Agency~to collate.

. required to assess the total Agency impact of information
‘-release, and.to insure consistency and continuity in our *

Discussion: at

1 April 1977.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Advisory Group

n Harold G. Bean, DDA. Assistant for Information

‘Need ‘for an Agericy-Level Central “Mechanism ea

--for Policy Review and Release of Potentially -
Controversial and Publicity Generating °

_ Information ..

including particularly the Center for National Security *:

and analyze information released froma multiplicity of:
Agency release points. “A central policy overview is

approach to. ele of information.

‘1. External pres ures “for: intelligence information
Yelease have increased dramatically, and have resulted in
a £low external to the Intelligence Community unparalleled: -
inthe first 27 or 28 years of the Agency's existence.. The. *
Freedom of information and Privacy Acts, mandatory declassifi-
‘cation requests under’ E.0. 11652, Congressional and Department
of Justice investigations, individual and class action civil |
suits--these, and more, ,have been the vehicles.

2. Within the Agency, there are at least 15 identisi-
able points of release of information to the outside.
Coordination with involved components usually does occur
but generally not in accord with a°’common standard, except .
in'‘the case of FOIA/PA and E.0. 11652 requests. And then,
standards for sanitizing differ, depending on whether the.
information is sought in response to civil or criminal
litigation, FOIA initial requests or whatever. -Standards
for handling names of personnel and organizations differ
within the Agency. A new handbook soon will introduce
Standards in othe FOIA/PA world; nevertheless, cover watt



13-00000

og

of

continue to pose particular problems to the DDO, and
Lane others whose activities support or co-exist with DDO
: activities must share a common understanding of potential
problems for..liaison. services.as well.as agents that can... 00: fl.
result from official releases of information which tend to
identify station Totations. ,or activities overseas. ° :

. 3. We ‘have as yet no : comprehensive index toa pétrievable -
collection of documents already released in sanitized form
‘so that we can know what we have already done, should the |
same documents: come for release review. in another request ;

‘. or another context.’ The Center for National Security: Studies
knows: ,. many individuals, detractors, newsmen. and others,’

«+ pool. their receipts from FOIA and Privacy Act requests.
(They have acknowledged doing so to us in their appeals ©
in which they allege that there seems.to be different

“treatment for different requesters). Much substantive °°.
information released is also available, commercially, from
_the Carrolton Press. There are many examples of what. appears
to the.outsider to be confusion, absence of sophistication or.
professionalism--or what could be misinterpreted as arbitrary.
and. capricious ipeahctanal contrary a the law. :

~ Conclusion: Some centcelized overview! to “assess ee total

.. Agency impact of release of potentially sensitive or

. Controversial information is required to protect sources
and methods as well.as to project a credible professiona]

- image. There dre several organizational options, including
expansion of the IRC role; establishment of a fairly large
centralized office as the funnel for all releases as was.
approved for mandatory declassification review; expansion F
of the function of the Assistant to the DCL or of the OGC.er -
IG. The option which seems least. costly,.ledst disruptive,

is while organizationally located in the right:spot for policy -

te ‘awareness seems to be that of adding a senior DDO and a DDA -

officer with clerical support, to the O/DDCI. Their activity
should be backstopped by a computer supported index. (or
indexes), with input from the directorates, OLC, OGC et al,
in accord with their needs to support their’ own systems.
Certain common standards could evolve, aiming at.a single”
system to the degree feasible; the DDO-.system will operate

on ODP computers with an IBM Standard program and could .

serve as an Agency system if input were decentralized.

‘Coordination: The principle of centralized policy review
and of an index of released documents as described, has

a

ao
ew,


13-00000
aE ete cate
renee e\

eS ed

aaa i 7 if

drawn favorable response from OGC, IRC Secretariat, ‘OLC,
1G, O/Comptroller, and O/DDCI representatives, and the
wt: recent Assistant to the DCI, Mr. Falkiewicz.

Recommendations:

That the Office. of the DDCI be expanded to
- include the policy review of flap-potential
information. releases described al ove it

Be:

That two ‘professionals; "senior DDO and ‘DDA
: officers (the former ranking because of the
particular. problems of the DDO), be detailed»
to the O/DDCI to undertake this expanded

function, with appropriate. clerical support. -

documents be: considered a service of common :
concern anda model for an eventual. single Agency :
system, to: the.degree feasible, with non-DDO input
the. using components.

. Tha systems which for ‘defendable reasons cannot :
evolve into. a single system meet retrieval standards
consistent with.the need for the alates to » provide
“comprehensive and timely overview.

ee

? Charles A. . Brige v

Bite

Distributio

21 - Each EAG Mor
‘1 - ER

1 + Mr. ‘Rettenberg
-1*+ Mr.. Clarke
: 2. - Mr. Lapham

1 - Mr. Meyer

1 - Mr. Acree

1 - Compt

st



13-00000

THE WASHINGTON POST 03 December 1992

it Moynihan has a candidate he is
pushing for Bill Clinton's
consideration for CIA director:
Nobody.

‘The Democratic senator from New
York hinted at his choice in a report he
sent to the president-elect about
Bosnia, which he visited over
Thanksgiving. ‘ugoslavia is another
former country that Moynihan thinks

agency i— by completely
missing the ethnic ferocity that is
causing slaughter and famine.

He wants the agency shut down and
its functions folded into the State
Department, not just because it was a
creation of the Cold War that has
outlived what little usefulness he thinks
it had. It is because on the central
‘question of the Cold War era, the
spooks got it dead wrong and caused us,
to misspend ourselves into bankruptcy
competing with a pauper nation,

Moynihan may have a better chance of
convincing Bill Clinton to trim CIA and
‘stuff it into State than he has of
convincing his colleagues in the Senate.
His recent attempt to give a semblance
of democracy to the secrets factory—he
wanted to publish its budget—lost badly.
Democrats have not yet cast out their
fear of seeming “soft” on national
‘security; and Republicans, who hate all

with a great passion,
become passionately protective when
cloak and dagger are in danger. Clinton,
at least, is anxious to save money. “He
could get about $5 bilion if if he closed it
“and not a drop

Some senators, notably the current
chairman of the intelligence committee,
are starry-eyed about “The Company.”
David L. Boren (D-Okla.) earnestly

believes that the CIA is serious about
“reform.” He lobbied vigorously for the
confirmation of the present director,
Robert M. Gates, from an almost
childlike conviction that Gates wished to
democratize the agency and would
confide in his so-called overseers in
Congress. “I know,” Boren would say to
doubters, “because he has told us so
touch, even things he didn’t have to tell

Recently, Boren has undergone a
conversion, Gates failed to share his

siant and its litle Atlanta branch, that
provided the funds for loans to Iraq, and
the burgeoning scandal about our
‘generous financing of Saddam Hussein’s
‘war machine. ‘As it happened, the CIA

[__ LaMARY MecRoRY __[———
Terminating the CIA

got it right about what was going on in
Rome, but when challenged by the
Justice Department, which is
prosecuting on different theory, it
obligingly revised its information and
did not tell all it knew to a federal
Judge. Boren bas now joined inthe hue
an mau for an independent counsel.

Moynitan does not discuss such
unas when he presses his idea
inating “with extreme
meds eas phrase for offing
someone who thwarts its purpose. He
does not recite the catalogue of crimes
committed by the agency when it was
being identified in the late Sen. Frank
Chutes 1976 expos as “a rogue

” The forbidden doinestic spying

during Watergate, the infamous LSD
experiments on unwitting subjects, the
‘subversion of the Chilean government,
the assassinations, to some Americans

senator, is a social scientist, and he
knows about taking the measurements
that the agency got so wrong for s0
long. In 1979, without the aid of
satellites or any other sophisticated
intelligence-gathering equipment, he
figured out that the Soviet Union was
headed for extinction.

He credits a “modest” employee of the
Census Bureau, one Murray Feshbach,
who in a forest of statistics found the
tree that mattered: the life expectancy
for Soviet males was dropping. This
should not be happening in a country
whose growth rate was routinely cited by
CIA 2s on a pat with that of Italy and
Japan. In one of their most egregious
bloopers, they figured that the per capita
income in East Germany was higher than
‘West Germany's.

“The agency was so wedded to the
notion of the Soviet Union as a
successful state, that they couldn’t
absorb other ideas or realities,”
‘Moynihan says,

Stansfield Turner, Jimmy Carter's
CIA director, has admitted the hugely
‘wrong estimates; but Gates and the
others now in charge are incapable of
saying “Boy, did we ever get it wrong.”
Moynihan notes “revisionist rumblings”
from Langley to the effect that they had
it right all along. It has to have been
their best-kept secret.

‘Why does Congress put up with such
ruinously expensive incompetence and,
year after year, increase the CIA's
secret budget?

‘Moynihan sighs. “It’s the cachet of
knowing things that other people don’t
know—even when they're wrong.”



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



none



13-00000



13-00000

Se.



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000

pstsbebatece



13-00000
¥e
a

seta

