# 104-10122-10399

## Page 1

1400000

104-10122-10399

$ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNITED STATES GOVI. MENT

•Memorandum

TO : FILE

FROM : James E. Mackey, Jr.

SUBJECT:

MOSS, Edward K.

#172 646

DATE: 25 March 1965

1. Attached herewith is a memorandum dated 23 March 1965 from the

Office of Legislative Counsel to Mr. Tom Iucid and a copy of the trans-

mittal sheet also dated 23 March 1965. These copies

03 Jack Tobie, Security Orficer, NE Division or Cored intereste

was generated by the interest of the Legislative Counsel.

-

2. Mr. pouties)reviewed Subject's file and advised the undersigned

that the pertinent portions would be made available to the Legislative

would not be made available to the House Foreign Affairs Committee.

3. Also, on 23 March 1965, Betty Buckley, Secretary in the Chief's

office, CA Steff, called and wanted to lnow when the last Covert Security.

Approval was granted and to whom.. The undersigned advised Betty Buckley.

that the last Covert Security Approval was granted on 7 November 1962 to

CA Staff for use by CA/PAG, Project ZRMAJOR, coordination with NE Division,

who had a prior interest.

4. No further action is contemplated at this time.

Jin Hackey

ID/2

15591

4-E-25

Datai

Attachment:

Memorandum dated 23 March 1965

Transmittal Sheet dated 23 March 1965

3/21

---

## Page 2

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

ONLY

at.

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

COMF SINTIAL

SECRET

FROM.

Thomas A. Lucid

AssistaDt to the DD/P

10s 10a draina, as autor, and

693108

C/NE

DATE

EXTENSION

6614

metr

Hual

на

DAR

23 March 1965

2.

To l: Does your Division have any

interent in Edward K. Moss and/o

into which can be forwarded to the

House Foreign Affaira Committee

as roquested in atlached memo?

Plesse submait reply by 1200 hra..

24 March.

SUSPENSE DATE: 1200 bIB. 24 Marco

12.

18.

1.

1S.

.

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 3

14-00000

23 MArN 1965

MIMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Thomas Luçid

SUBJECT:

Edward X. Moos

1. Thia la the care I ralled you abour on Friday, resull

of an inquiry recelved from the Houor Foreign Allaire Commiller.

Subjeir la reportedly registered under the Foreign Agento Regia-

18as10n Acl fur Somalia, Cameronna, and Sudan.

2. RI chock ravealed a Bureau report on publie relariune

work for Varona and an Altorney General loller lu Congress.

Indicaring his work for two other Alrican countries.

Have been

advised shar NE ubrained a CSA in 1939 and CA in 1962 for an

Edward Kippor Mono in the, publis relallone foeld.

3. Could you help ua gor wharever laformation la appro-

priale in dooure that we are nor caught un the middle on thie

Cangressional inquiry? Inquiry mao received Friday and me

need in gor back lo sham an soon do poorible.

Thanks.

LYLE L. MILLER

Olfire of Legiolarive Counsel

---

