# 104-10117-10400

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10117-10400

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

S-E-C-B-I-T

"(When Filled In)

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/QA

ATLENTION

:

FROM

SUBJECT

: Deputy Director of Security (Investigations

and Support

: 0-82920

7215661

123.00

L. Reference 1s made to your memorandum dated 5 May 1960

reguesting an appropriate investigation a Subject In connectior

vith his use under an Operational Approval@s en Inforasant In Cuba 24

by Ll DIVISIOn.

2. The enclosed information 1s furnished as an aid in de-

termining whether or not the Subject should be used in the pro-

posed capacity.

3. In view of the certification set forth In your request,

no CIA Illes other than those of the Office of Security have

been searched in connection with this case. It is assumed that

all pertinent information concerning Subjeet has been furnished

pursuant to the provisions of Clandestine Services Instruction

No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction - Field No. 10-5.

4. This memorandum pertains only to this proposed assigment.

It is requested that this office be informed of your decision in

this case.

The enclosed material should be returned in a sealed

envelope marked for the attention of the undersigned when it has

served its purpose.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Free

H. Ha?]

7. 411.1

Inclosures:

lizac Check Fot ata 6/23/60

CLOSED

TOBIASSEN: jma/28 June 1960

S-E-C-R-E-T

(When Filled In)

---

