(104-10519-10227| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY.ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

7 SECRET

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

the Bowie of the

fe all questions
esth the one

Danton stma, bE poseibtey qnd tee (2) ena

Cerca Pecuoonre

AMPALM/ §
CONTACT and OEVELOPHEAT

aprcata woe. oth, aye T eas Finat contactro OW oLveLoreD,
Subject Independent iy founded a Christian political movement in Cuba in opposition
to the Castro regine, Th Aprii 1960,he fled Cuba, Hts orvanteotion wae alrsady
4n contact with CIA and he was placed in contact with Wollace A, PARLEIT, Ho
agreed to cooperate with private Anericans who would assiat a Cuban liberation
Rovenont.

TNOrC ATE wie Twn Teer Come ve tone Wauniw (any masPONATONL CASE OFFICER 10@
wampuiaa. 1y 49. vicaTe mow. — Subject could be turned over to any CO kmowkedgable
: of Cuban and Carihbaan political nuances, if introduced by Wallace A.UPAXLEIT or
Terence 3, CRABANAC, He could be contacted using State cover with outs pr tor

introduction,

AEE ANoON.

No others

toe UNL Petros ‘
vss 10S0a SECRET



gee

to his native country hw would be inpriscued or executed; he ie overtly known a8

ii SECRET

Eo eee eee
1. ferrwar suB}ECE'S wottvat om,
fecmensnts)

Subject 1s in political epposition to the current Cuban rogine; if he retuned

an mmemy of the Castro regime. He hag an established record ag an anti-Conmunisty
bis pérconal and political future has been committed to an anti-Communist, anti-Castro’

position.

NCATE wat CONTROL, 17 Hae, EHIATS OVER THE 2U0/ECT, (Uf me contsol, oF 1f (Nore deo Jack of teal comfvol

7.

a) . 5 :
The control factér 1s a realization by subject that his present sponsors offer the
only. chance he has of returning to Cuba. -

COVER,

SECTION 11

1. COVER UMD Av BUBIEGT ano COOL OFFRCER Im THEim UEETE rr
Bubject 18 mn official of on overt organization with headquarters in an American
city} contact with the CO varies and includes the use of safe house facilities.

ates

FGoaEe GHG We ATED Th OOTATEE MIT TAT ORATION RAE Tw RTRETINE RTT :
Sudject ie on overt officiel of an overt orgenieation and cbtaino information for the
purposes of that organization.

F iaoieave Sumvice FAR Buln SaRIEEY iwimnd we (HITT work) (18 werdtee),

Subject probably assunce that ho is working for CIA, but thte has never bean admtited
as it would be counter to existing U.3. policy.

SEcTIGn_1¥ THTCLLIGENCE CONNECTIONS ANO THAT oe
Fe EFPLDIW GUDIEET* 9 FMORN PAET GO PRESENT CONVEETION BIIW hy OWLS HTELLIGENED SERVICE, IMDIGATE YwE ENTER
SUCH COMMLC TION TS RNORY OFF ASEL,

‘|None

Fo LUST GiMEW IMOIVIGUAE (Absa! 9, Folativen, (etenda; oud AMOw OF SCAIEEE™S PRESENT IMTLLLTGIUED aeTHeI TER:

Subjects activities are not of an intelligence nature. Every one who knows of
Subject Inows that he 4a a uenber of the front organization.

3. EAPLDIN amy THAIWIMG SUBJECT WAS WAQ EW CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

SECTION ¥.

TE OtaER Fomttin PORF® HEEJLCT @OULD OC MOLT LIMLLY To COLLADISATE #yIH BICAUSK BF MIS 1OLDLOG OF PaaT

JCIATIONS. EXPLAIN. :
Subject, 26 a. Cuban, would collaborate with a rightist or centrist Cuban government.
He might collaborate with other Latin American goverzments of Like compesitian.

z Ro
SECRET

8.



SECRET
OPERATIOWAL USt_- COmTACT

A CONTACTO BLOAT, UNOLCATE AC Tuy TY tm auIC WE BAS LMUALED #nu mH TOPE OF ImTORY

7. WDLCOTE wos AnD /acm wwOw BUBICT OBIAINE IMFORMATION.

Subject fo an official of an overt organization, mprate which Js of interest to
Clas he furnishes data. on the organization es pert of his official duties. This.
fact is knowi to other officiale of the organization. i

wanter as

Subject has been told that the data he furnishes is used by the private American
‘ group that sponsors AMIRON activities,

Fe. OcTAie Buster's PRGPGSTD PP-Pu TRE UNE OR OUTIES, v

Subject is an official of a front group sponsored by CIA. His duties are to conduct

his day-to-day activities in such a manner as to further the efforts of the front.

stcTion vir “PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY
T OETAWL SuOTICT © PROPOHO JUALAG FYFE GOMIACE CW QPKeATiCuas vate
AL MMERE ROMDECE 19 AN OFFICIAL MLMOEW OF A FORELON CovERMENT:

WA.

0, WHIRE SuBZECT 1S AU OFFICIAL MLWOER OF AM COYORE AGENCY:

WA.

3ecT108 win = TT REENET AELATIONSNNP wit SuBGECT

Ve GAPCATS NATVAE OF ACEHCY FELATIONGHIP WAIN SUBJECT, 1.0, TRAINEE, GPPOSTTE MUNULA, REWNERATICN, IT ants AGENCY
Peaseayea anny 10 SUBSET.

Subject is an scministrator of a front group sponsored by CIA. He ia not paid
aed dy CIA. lie knows Terence S. _, CRABANAC (P) under alias.

3
SECRET



e secect
DUALLFICATIONS FOR OMUR COEWATIONS

AL AMICETIPD, TALENTS 8 QUALIFICATIONS PObsISn40 ay SURIEET WHICH COULO CONCEIVAmY AL OF VALU”
ATW. : :

fstcrion 14

fp imgecae ari
fom omnee

‘BubJect may have political influence in a, mubsequent Cuban governnent.

Cee HERTS

va pyeareccs OC waoe om ERCmANGE

16 pay wankers 00 .
ove peraies.

JOY OF Orme wEThIO,

INDICATE OIE INVESTIGATIVE WUNSGAER TAEW 72 VEBIFY GIOGRAPUIEAL INT ORWATION FURNISHEO OY. SUBJECT.

None

Tabi cate ovtinew O8 WOT PROvISiGm IR OPERATIONAL APPHOVAL OW OP rrregts ‘DATE ARFROVAL OBTAINGD
PHOVAL FON syBJECI+9 ySE mAs BEES PHEWIOUTLY COTAINED,
POA 2b March 1960

TS Gwa@Ac rem, OCUFOBILITY AnD 3ECUNITS, EFFING EVIDENCE WHERE POSSIBLE.

persorererereryry

Subject's character seema consistent with his background. No evidence has been
forthcoming to indicate security flaws or lack of reliability.

Jo Cap atu awe AUTUATICN 4 MOESCALTION 14 aul SUBJECH UA WAVE OCEN ImvCL VLD wal MUST OE CWALUAIED FROM A
CERCUATIONAL SECURITY VICHPOINT.

None if

SECTION xD ‘SUBIECT 3 PLAGONAL WAUITS

te USE OF LyouOa, ORUGS: GawaLInG, PaRAwOURS.

ry
. SECRET



: SECRET e
sterion ar _ AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS
VINDICATE SuRDECT' 3 HODDICS G@ UmPEREST 16 SPORTS. MSIE. O76

|
al
i

AELETICD AND OTHER CHAPACTERIBTICS, ARE SUCH AD ME COULD 2032 45 A WATIVE
YON REGION OTHER tam ATi Wee, CAPLAIN. :

(7a0 Fats § 900 41 way

[a twovcATe wetTWER, tnvonnavion
CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER utAND.

Research

17 twee Tay QOUTING ACTION 19 RCQUIMES, 34 amo RMEN TER
para. 43d. au :

13.
fewent cour cowtact ur went:

Fe Give Ture OCTANLS 1k. BECOME TION Wit Gos P4509 CoMLS «ade OUAL
Macine COMTACT USE?

Ne

SECTION xvE

Sioeatune oF apeagours

pare pereriprarres

2 February 1961

