# 104-10143-10235

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10143-10235

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SLUNLI

OGC 79-01368

February

da round Tany

OIC +79-13/1

ASCA

• MEMORANDUM FOR : Office of Legislative Counsel

ATTENTION

FROM

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

:

Scott Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator, HSCA

Richard I. Rininger

Assistant General Counsel

: DCI Options Relative to HSCA Report

Content

:

OLC 79-0113/8, Dated 5 Feb 1979, Subject:

House Select Committee on Assassinations

References to Overseas CIA Stations

1. This Office has reviewed your draft memorandum

including the options to be presented to the DCI.

2. We have no objection to the options presented.

In

this regard, query whether it would be appropriate at this

point to include your opinion as to the possible follow-on

steps which might be necessary if option (c) is selected and

the HSCA resists that decision.

3. We do suggest several editorial changes to the

memorandum.

First, you might consider inserting a new

paragraph 2, to make the basic issue known more quickly.

Perhaps the following would be

suitable:

2. Background: The material which the HSCA

presently contemplates publishing on an unclassified

basis will reveal the existence of CIA stations in

Mexico City, Layof and Helsinki!

Several other suggested changes are pencilled on a

copy of your draft memo, attached.

5. Please advise if we can be of further assistance.

Rits IR

Richard L. Rininger

wup

Att

2031

SECRET

DERIVATIVE CL BY 236961

O DECL NEW ON EEB 1985

DENTED F LC 79-6113/8,55261979

2/P

---

