104-10185-10160. _./ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 fitetacta:nr seston ante

|

ATERTAL RLVOESED AT © TEADQUAPTERS RY

EOSELECE COUPUTTEE ON ASSASS LIONS STAFF MICIRERS

A \ i
i ern Samnin/ vOut: LidtOhy lere Vea me)
ee +
Co. agaeae
\ oe ot ey Ya

INCLUSIVE DATES: 25 Top 168 — 2) Sept /96b i

. CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: _@, / Seema :
: : roo: A2DQYW

DELETIONS, TF AuY:_* KMerrs,*

Rodel Loreg sae

CHD NI SI
WEL,



FROM: (Headquarters component)
wl * ate

TO:

RID/AN

TO: Gtation/ Base)
Chief of Station, Nexico City

SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST
AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

"FROM: (Division)
Chief, tH Division

INFORMATION FOR REGUESTERS:

A. COMPLETE ITEMS 1 THROUGH 12,

0. (TEM 3-ALC FILE TITLES MUST BE STERILE SINCE THEY WiLL
APPEAR OM THE FIELD COPIES ANO ON MACHINE LISTS.

C. ITEM 6-ALL REMARKS MUST BE STERILE.

D. ITEMS 7 AN G-USE FIRGT THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYM.
BOLS FOR FIELD STATIONS AND LIST HEADQUARTERS ELE.
NTS ACCOROIN: ISHED NUM!

To estat

(TEM J0-ENTER OLD TITLE WHEN AMENOING A TITLE CITE
ANY FILES. SUCH AS 201 OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RE.
LATED To THE FILE WOVEFED BY THiS REQUEST. ITEM 10 MAY.
ALSO BE USED 10 GIVE REASONS FOR THE ACTION BEING RE
QUESTED TO IDENTIFY THE TYPE OF MATERIAL TO BE PLACED
IN A FILE OR TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKS.

-. ITEM 11-4 RECORDS OFFICER MUSY SIGN ALL FILE ACTION
QUESTS. CONSULT YOUR RMO ON ANY PROBLEMS THAT Al

© Pe OF FILE

‘CODE (rLe) NUMOER

[[Jsussecr — [g] pnosecr

6 1/297 2

SFILE TITLE Wer EciFie suBsECT)

LIGOOXY - Support

ACTION REQUIRED

ANALYSIS ACTION

DISPOSITION

ose rie
INDICATE DISPOSITION)

[RETAIN 7 BEsTRoY

| DESTROY THRU COATED

7 WNTERESTED EVATIONS
at |
i

TST INTERESTED HEADGUARTERS DESK

CR 50

FILES ACTION

|fecrces

| aesrriereo. |
n

UNRESTRICTED

rer 7 > EWARGE PER “ANENTLY TO|
[y leneramerovoee an {| tOFricen a DtEKr

| | SEND Yo requester x) Bustos/s4/L

Wick DaUARTERS ROUTING IWSTAUCTIONST



fm,

CONFIDENTIAL :

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED, DO NOT
ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER... FORWARD CS
DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-S8.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

an

Re 2593



SUBJECT AND PROJECT FE REQUEST
AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION’

FROM: (Diviton)
Pe)

TO + (Station/Bose)
Hexico City

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

COMPLETE ITEMS 1 THROUGH 12. ATM 1O-ENTER OLO TITLE WHEN AMENDING A TITLE, CITE
7 ANY FILES, SUCH AS 201 OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RE:
Fre 3—ALL FILE TITLES MUST BE STERILE SINCE THEY WILL 2
LatEo TO THE-FRE COVERED GY THIS REQUEST. ITEM 10 MAY
APPLAR OM THE FIELD COPIES AND OW MACHINE {ISS Miso er useo To one MEASONS FOR THE ACTION BENG Re:
QUESTED, TO IDENTIFY THE TYPE OF MATERUL TO GE PLACEC
IN A FILE OR TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKS,

TEM 6 ~ALL REMARKS MUST BE STPRILE,

ITEM _7 AND 0-USE FIRST THREE LCTTERS OF DISPATCH SYM-
BCLS FOR FIELO STATIONS AND LIST HEADQUARTERS ELE-
MENTE ACCORDING TO CSTAULISHED NUMERIC CODES {

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE
EOE NE
eae

| (TEM 11-A RECORDS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION ae
QUESTS CONSULT YOUR RMO ON ANY PRCDLEMS THAT ARISE

Tree OF FRE z

[Lo svosecr — [Q] pnovecr

TFL TITLE (SPECIE SUDIECT (PRONECTS LATED 10.18 SACKS?

:
3

LICOUKY/Support.

ACTION REQUIRED Z

©. REMARKS (FOR FIELD DISTRIBUTION?

Project is terminated

TINTERESTEL STATIONS TPROIECTS ONLY

EMH as

> FILES ACTION

T EWARGE PERMANENTLY TO}
HOLO Mm : yuaasepauae erepare sovorr ano| | 'OFFICER @ DESKS
ResTacTeD jeereerer res Seno 10 weauesres

4

cs FILES

TO. COMMENTS 1INGLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS!

files attached for retirement

VERIFIED

“COOPOINATION
"SWaTUsE OF amanen/oEsn @ 6
Cantn APrUcABeer

1 ENCORSEMENT. ‘
SIGNATURE OF BRANCWOISR AO.

EFFECTIVE OATE ors

Af sopt 6 50 |
fons gia rginae SECRET TT rare



entices

Distrabutae

3 - CUS

re ‘
Gy Stted by Eee!

PoPeeTaa Ga ia de Csebae



Chief of Station, texice city : uate

Chief, hi Livistor
petroactive revei for rurchase of

Furniture froe an GeIOKL oj; loyee

Aduin/Logisticse

January 1960

Seferencet @. iis 120225, dated
c be nF 4b02d(3)

Tt tas neaduuarters unverstancing that ti trausier of
MGwcrits rersenel furniture tc Litsanded was reins C6 be arra yee

as a rather tctkeen tac persons Concerned Tne contractual arrangerents
between ella LIC =] dig not cover or centerplate furnishing

of household iters.

inaicates that tae Ltacion
TUE? and furaasheu tier

the contract
rt te Stutia:

2. ieference
listed thereia fror
furaity Ir is assured that wae
terrinsted the furniture sill re

hYel as ©
LEG iis
for fULUrs Us06

5b. Ut is assured, ultheurn contrary to Leadquarters understanding,
that ostenasting circunstances cay have arlsen rics prorated tag Station
te nurchase the furniture questicn, cetreactive arproval is created

therefore for purchase of the furnitere nctes in reference

Your coupersticn bs requested rerardiae corp

personnel contractual arrangerents ans sedi reculatroase

fistributien?
32 Us, beanee City

Kufbopistics Feu. seush eno (1U Feb. 66) 6382
1 = Bn/ Loe Cpt/h vr. sauffman (in draft)
1- AEG
1-2 vE/d vas Yrs. bustos (in eraft)
Le bff



ites a \

Chel of Station, “texico Clty
paner
hamin/Loristicsstequest for Fetroitive fpureval fer the Purchase of QP Furniture

‘chon ecquieto aetamees = from an CDYCKE : VCR e

ACTION REWIRED: Per pararvaph 2

REPERFNCF: Fr? 45-20.(5)

i
1, Retroactive approval 15 requested for the procurenent on 26 February
1965 of household furniture at 2 total price of $296.09 from Matalle S. ICING
for use as “P furniture by LICCCHY-1. 5 _
are reqsomble considerin,
i rere fer equil itens
procured are as follows:

2, The rrices mid for the tters as Liste
the condition, are, ant quality ant veuld sve cost
if procured of; the viextein local mrket. ‘the ites:

2 Suite (Sofa % 2 chairs) $76.09
tor £169.90

Bede, Hpllywood tyin are mtresses

3. It was felt at tne tire of preeurerent that sime MICINOM? had

resiime? from her non-ufftetal cover position amt that LICCOPY-] was a

contract arent, that the reference rerulation did not a f
Siew of the fact that both individuls either are or have been KISAur
explovees, retroactive approval 13 rewested to rreclirie possitle autit
excention in future aulfie, ald a sinter transaction anveor ininent
in the future, orfor Headquarters advice will be solicited.

WILIARD C, CURTIS

Distribution:
3 - Chier,

GISATON THES Fe muvee

cant



erie a1oO eer, 16 anance
oesteoy Care. ~

sue | 2/53 SECRET

co

Secr E S-agesaen.
DIR CITE MEXI 4628 }
LICOOKY :
1, LICOOKY-7 HaS BEEN IN POOP FEALTH FOR SEYERAL
MONTHS EVIDENCED BY RECURRENT HACKINS COUGH, BRONCHITIS AND OTHER
ILLS, TREATMENT HERE HAS TEMPORAPILY ALLEVIATED CONDITION SUT MEVEPR

PE, MANENTLY. MOST RECENT PECURPENCE HAS L-1 WORRIED ABOUT POSSIBLE

LUNG CANCER. ‘TS VISIT DR. I. SNAPPER, CHIEF BROOKDALE MEDICAL
CENTER WHO KNOWS HEPE ENTIPF MEDICAL HISTORY, LEAVING END FIPST
WEEK SEST AND FETURNING FIPST WEEK OCTORER,

“2, OWING L-1 STRATEGIC LOCATION IN LITERARY WORLD THPOUGH
HER ACTIVITY a BEM STATION PAYINS EXPENSES FPOM PPOJECT FUNDS,
CSEE HMMw 13902) NEDICAL EXPENSES COVERE" SY BLUE CROSS ELUE
SHIELD SO ESTIMATE ONLY TRAVEL AND TEMPORARY HOTEL STAY 2EFORE
ENTERS wore.

SEW YORK SUPPLEMENTING STAIION

3. IF HS WISKES INTERVIEW HER
PLANS FOP ESTABLISHING LA WRITERS COMMUNITY,

REPORTING ON Cot
STATION WILL FOCwARD EXACT DATES aD ADDRESS,

PET

SECRET

Sef

SO 6 PY



e SECRET IN Fugu “Page —

oy ‘AGS LICOOKY-1 ILLS L-1 DR. J. SNADPEP BROOKDO!IF OWING 1-1
STRATEGIC LITER¢RY WORLD THROUGH AEM STATION HMMW 1592 BLUE CROSS
BLUE SHIELD HOTEL NEW YCRK LA WRITERS

BT : —

j Suny A SECT
La ty

we

