# 104-10167-10421

## Page 1

14-00000,

104-10167-10421)

?."

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUT!.S

TO

: DIRECTOR

FROM

: UNHAVE

ACTION: SAS 8 •

INFO

: DDP, 51,. Fl/INT 2, IW, DD/1 2, RF 2

3

INTEL

SECRET 1S0052Z

19J 631482666

DIR CITE WAI. 1349

TYPIC YOSULK ANSWIRL

REF A DIR 54745

B WAVE 1610(N77984)

1. WHILE DO NOT WISH SELABOR AMSWIRL-I ISSUE WAVE DOES DEJECT

TO HAVING ANSWIRL-I REPORTING ATTRIBUTED TO "LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT

OFFICER™ AS SOURCE.

2. AS HOS KISONS, A-1 WEARS TWO HATS. ON ONE. HAND HE ODBOON

OFFICER SOUND BY ODBOON LAWS AND REGULATIONS REPORT ODZOON ALL

INFO HE UNCOVERS IN HIS ROLE AS ODSOON OFFICER HIS AREA OPERATIONS.

ALSO AS ODZOON OFFICER A-I UNDER OFFICIAL AND MORAL OBLIGATION

REPORT TO ODENVY, FOR ÉXAMPLE, THROUGH LOCAL ODBOON OFFICE INFO

WHICH LIES IN ODENVY JURISDICTION. ON OTHER HAND A-1 WORKING FOR

AND UNDER CONTROL WAVE AS WAVE AGENT. AS SUCH A I UNDER OBLIGATION

SUBMIT AVE THAT INFO WHICH LIES IN WAVE PROVINCE.

3. AS WAVE ASENT, A-1 SUBMITS INFO TO WAVE WHICH HE DENIES.

HIS PARENT ORG, ODENVY, AND OTHER ODYORE AGENCIES.

THIS INFO

IS IN TURN DISSEMINATED BY WAVE AND HAS TO ODOXE COMMUNITY,

THUS CREATING A SITUATION WHICH COULD PROVE PREJUDICIAL TO A-1

IF SOURCE NOT CAMOUFLAGED. SITUATION BECOMES EVEN MORE DELICATE

EXCLUDED

EXCLUDE AND DETONATIE TON.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

VIN

---

## Page 2

14-00000

1:""

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE....

IN FOULL PAGES.

• ON CONSIDERATION THAT EXCEPT FOR CHIEF LOCAL DEZDON NO ONE IN:

ODBOON COMPLEX KNOUS OF MOL'S HAVE CONNECTION.

4. WAVE WOULD. NOI DE CONCERNED IF CONSUMERS WOULD ACCEPT

INFO AND SOURCE DESCRIPTIOUS'IN DISSEYS AT FACE VALUE.

BUT

AS HAS KNOWS SOME ODYOKE AGENCIES ARE NOT EASILY SATISFIED.

COENVY IN PARTICLLAR ALWAYS STRIVES LEARN NAME SOURCE AND EFFECI.

DIRECT CONTACT WITH SAVE IN ORDER MAKE ITS OUN ASSESSHENT OF

SOURCE AÑD INFO. IF SOURCE IS NOT PEGGED AS ODYOKE OFFICIAL,

VAVE AND YOS HAVE PREROGATIVE CEVEN TO POINT OF FALSIFYING) TO:

PROTECT THEIR SOURCES AND THUS TELL ODENVY OR AY OTHER ODYOKE

AGENCY THAT SOURCE IS NOI AVAILABLE EVEN IF HE IS. _ IF SOURCE IS

DESCRISED AS ODYOKE OFFICIAL, IT BECOKES DIFFICULT IF NOT

ENBARRASSING TO DENY ANY ODYOKE AGENCY ACCESS TO SOURCE.

5. SINCE WAVE

NOI WISH ANY ODYOKE AGENCY HAVE DIRECT CONTACT

MITH A-1 AS RESULI OF INFO HE PRODUCED AS WAVE SOURCE, IT STRONGLY

RECOMMENDED THAT SOURCE DESCRIPTION GIVEN IN RESE BE ADOPTED.

THIS MOVE WOULD PLACE HAS AND YAVE IN POSITION, AS APPROPRIATE,

EITHER TO SAY

SOURCE IS NOT AVAILABLE OR MAKE OFFER INTERESTED

DOYONE AGENCIES TO SERVICE THEIR REQUESTS FOR THEM WITHOUT

CONCEDING NAME OF OR ACCESS IO SOURCE. IF SOURCE DESCRIPTION

NOT CAMOUFLAGED WAVE FORESEES MOS AND WAVE FORCED REPEATEDLY TO

VIOLATE ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL INTEL TENETS CONTAINED NATIONAL

SECURITY ACT 47 WHICH VESTS UFON KUBARK RIGHT PROTECT ITS INTÉL

SOURCES.

SECRET

---

