# 104-10193-10113

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10193-10113

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CAN

рон. 8

1508

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

039

9 AUG 60

SEGREL

DIRECTOR

arred in somen,

HAVANA

WH 7

00/P, COP, 100P/A, S/6 8 .

can :1

at-to-map-191

ROUTING

AUG 10 04497 60.

PRIORITY

IN 39637

PRITY DIR MASH CITE WAVE 5539

NO NIGHT ACTION

JNNET

PET 1. DIR 303C COilT 91125).

04/08/60.

B DIR 39221 (OUTW5713)

MICROFILMED

C DIR 48544 (PARA 351 (CUT50'/43)

DEC, 9 1964

D MASH 9146 EPARA S CON JOBSO

OC. MICRO NEI

1. SINGE MÉETINGS LESCRISED REFS A MIND S INTERNAL ANYUM-S GROUP

WAITING FOR BOTH FINANCIS AND GUIDANCE TROT FED/ABIDDY-LO

ON &

AUG ANYU:I-1 REPORTS TO AVAL-S THAT HIS MIYULI GROUP ON VERGE DISINTE-

GRATING DUE LACK OF FINANCES. INTESNAL ANYU:-S GROUP HAVE RECEIVED NO

FINACIAL AID. FROM FRE TO SUPPORT PLANNED OPS AND NO RECENT GUIDANCE

FROM FRD/AMBIDDY-S AND FENDERSIP DISSILUSIONED. ANYUM-S HAS SEEN RAIS-

ING SMALL AMOUNTS MONET G:: HIS OU AND USING KIS PERSONAL FUNDS KEEP

NUM TOGETHER BUT CLAISS AT END HIS AND DONATSO RSSOUSCROUTING

INITIAL

R:/AY

redoved fron profoot

eS Classification: 19-42 1g

:03 84 5-56128

Box: q

Folay/

73955-

046 Barton

RI/TY

DESTRAY-

1389 "PAN"s

SEARET

REPRODUCTION SY OTMER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

HAVA 5639

SECRET

PAGE _ 2 IN 35637

20 STATION HAS HOT FUNDED TS ORC TO DATE. OUZ UNDERSTANDING

IS TILAT PESO SUPPORT XOR INTERVAL ANYUM OSG TO FLOW FROM ERD PER REF 6

SINCE CONTROL, DIRECTION AND OVEFALL UNIFICATION FACILITATED BY USE THIS

CHANELO MOHEVER ANYUN ORG "CANET OPIATE WITHOUT FUNDS AND REAL DANGER

EXISTS THAT ORG WILL DISSOLVE ULPES FINANCED FROM SOVE QUARTER SOONEST.

3. ANYUS-1 GLAINS THAT LORIE FACTION OF MiYUM PRACTICALLY NON

EXISTENT INTERNALLY, CLAT'S HE AS CONTACTED AND RECRUITED SOME FORNER

FACTIS:

LORIS ADEPENTS BUT UNAGLE LOCATE ANY REAL STPENCTI CLAIMED BY THIS FACTE

LO AMYUIS GROUP RECEIVED ANSWER OF BONZOHET TO REF D LETTER. BOR-

HONET STATES WAITS NO PART OF FED SILICE IT "CONTROLLED BY MIERICANS"

AND HE REFUSES WORX WITH AMERICANS.

SO RE PARAB ABOVES, STATION AGARE THAT POLITICAL SPLIT ANYU:: MASH

REFLËCTED SUCH STATENCHTS HENS. HOEVER, AYUI GROUP CONTINUES AS ONLY

STATION CONTACT INTERNAL ANYU' AD HAVE DIOTRISUTED POST OF PROPAGANDA

SENT BY HOS MID MASH. IN ADDITION HAVE USES LEAFLET SOMBS WITH SONS

EFFECT ON LAVA POPULACE, PUT UP FOSTERS, GENERATED ANYUi WALL WRITINGS;

ETC. IN CHOER NOT LOSE EVEN THIS LIMITED ACTION CAPABILITY IT IS SUG-

GESTED TIAT ADEQUATE FUNDING BE INITIATED IMEDIATELY THROUGH THE ANBIDDY

1 CHAUNEL OR STATION BE AUTHOSTED FINANCE DIRECTLY THROUGH AlPAL-1.

ALSO REALIZE UNDER THEORSTICAL INTERIAL ERD SETUP ANNAIL-S AS SINANCIAL

SEC SOULD PROVIDE FUNDS ANTU GROUP, HOWEVER AT THIS POINT INTERNAL

FRD APPARITLY NOT FUCTIOWING.

FLED 6921457

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: "AMUM WOULO GIVE ITS UAQUALIFIEO SUPPORT TO THE FRO.

WHY 1389 "EMAN.

WIL

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

