5 paagegetentnimges
104-10066-10180|

ear

la

C

¢

&

Up

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

“ a z Derreeis eiieeeriia td

55/30/ SECRET FRPt op pp pe ee
STAFF
: Dez,
CONF: C/LA=8 INFO: ODPD=D, VR,» FILEs D/DCI+ DDO=4, CSRF. C/CI=

C/CI/OCFL, C/EPS/COMP, C/EPS/EGe2, C/OG/DMS, C/PCS, C/PCS/CAC, CS/LOLY
C/PCS/PGL+ D/OLC, DDO/DO, ICS+ OGC=2 (34/P)

78 1024592 PAGE 001.

TOT: 221849Z JUL 78 DIRECTOR 261709
een mw ewe nee meee ene e ene nnn emer n nero wen ee nenen sewer meen nena nececnen
SECRET
STAFF 221849Z DIRECTOR 261709
TOs: IMMEDIATE MEXICO CITY. :

NIACT MEXICO CITY,
RYBAT WNINTEL
REF: MEXICO CITY 45940 1022224

1. FOLLOWING POINTS RESOLVED AT MEETING WITH ROBERT
BLAKEY, CHIEF COUNSEL HSCA AND GARY CORNWELL, DEPUTY COUNSEL HSCAs:

A. HSCA WILL CONTACT AND INTERVIEW LICHANT@1 ON BASIS HE
QUESTIONED DEBA GARRO DE GUERRERO GALVAN FOLLOWING KENNEDY ASSASSINA=
TION, HSCA WILL NOT REVEAL_THEIR KNOWLEDGE HIS UNWITTING USE FOR
CIA THROUGH LIHUFFe1. act ol

B. HSCA WILL CONTACT AND INTERVIEW LICOOKY=1 AND binuer~a)
ON BASIS THEY U.S, CITIZENS WHO RESIDENT IN MEXICO AT TIME DF KENNEDY
ASSASSINATION. AS YOU AWARE LICOOKY/1 HAS RECEIVED WIDE PUBLICITY
AS RESULT JACK ANDERSON ARTICLE IN "PARADE" MAGAZINE ON 12 AUG 1962
AS HAVING BEEN EMPLOYED IN CUBAN MINISTRY OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS 1959-

60 AND PERSONAL RELATIONSHIP WITH FIDEL CASTROON[LIHUFF=<1)WILL BE
INTERVIEWED ON BASIS HIS RESIDENCY IN MEXICO CITY SINCE 1949 AND HIS
ASSOCIATION WITH GENERAL MOTORS AND AMERICAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE IN
MEXICO, Gece WILL NOT REVEAL THEY AWARE BOTH HAD RELATIONSHIP 2y
WITH AGE Ys}

olal
0% C, HSCA WILL CONTACT AND INTERVIEW (LITAMIL=7 AND sips BASIS
HEY FORMER EMPLOYEES “CUBAN EMBASSY) MEXICO. HSCA ADVISED US THAT
IN PREVIOUS TRIP THEY INTERVIEWED OTHER FORMER MEMBERS (CUBAN] oO
EMBASSY )MEXICO WITH ASSISTANCE MEXICAN AUTHORITIES, HSCTA WILL NOT
REVEAL THEY AWARE OF PoRMER(ETA RELATIONSHIP.¢}

D. HSCA REQUESTS THAT RAYMOND H, GERENDE AND LIONION@1 (CIF
HE CAN BE LOCATED IN MEXICO) BE MADE AVAILABLE FOR INTERVIEW IN
HOTEL ROOM. HSCA SAID VOICE COMMUNICATION WILL BE SUFFICIENT, HOW=

” SECRET

5711


oy

fant

nN

nN

ta

ce

“FLICK

SECRET
STAFF
Powe necenrwceecee: mene amaeanewerneeenrnecenneenenane:
- 78 1024592 PAGE 002
TOT: 2216492 JUL 78 DIRECTOR 261709

EVER, CLOSED CIRCUIT TV EQUIPMENT BEING SENT FOR POSSIBLE CONTINGENCY
USE.

E. HSCA HAS AGREED TO INTERVIEW EDWARD G, TICHBORN AS FORMER
feitcyer at IN“SAME MANNER AS DONE PREVIOUSLY WITH'(MR. CHARLES |
ET AL. = O3

2. HSCA WILL ACCEPT CAPT, GOODING'S VOUCHING FOR. BONA FIDES
OF GERENDE AND LIONION=1 WHO CAN USE ALIASES DURING INTERVIEW IF
THEY DESIRE.

3. HSCA CONFIRMED THAT THEY HAD REQUESTED EMBASSY TO ASK
MEXICAN GOVERNMENT TO LOCATE ALL BUT GERENDE AND LIONION@1 FOR. INTER=
VIEW PURPOSES. HSCA WILL BE TRAVELING OFFICIAL PASSPORTS. STATE
DEPT HAS NOT ADVISED HSCA WHERE THEY WILL BE BILLETTED.

4. IN VIEW AGREEMENT THAT ONLY GERENDE AND LIONION@1. WILL BE
INTERVIEWED UNDER INDIRECT C1.E. HOTEL ROOM WITH VOICE SYSTEM) CON-
DITIONS, STATION MAY BE ABLE ARRANGE SITE WITH LOWER PROFILE AND
BETTER SECURITY. AS WE SEE ITs MINIMUM REQUIREMENT WOULD BE FOR
PRIVATE SPACE FOR HSCA, FOR PERSON BEING INTERVIEWED AND FOR
CAPT, GOODING, TECH AND STATION OFFICER. HENCE APARTMENT OR SUITE
WITH THREE SEPARATE ROOMS SHOULD SUFFICE.

ols. STATION NOTES, PASSAGE TO AG FLORES NAMES ee )
Granite LICHANT#1, LIHUFF=1- CLARK FLORES AND PALOMARES PRECLUDES

Y STATION ACTION TO CONTACT AND ARRANGE FOR INTERVIEW. HOWEVER,
ANY INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO STATION WHICH MIGHT ASSIST HSCA IN
LOCATING THEM SHOULD BE PROVIDED, SIMILAR INFORMATION WHICH MIGHT
HELP HSCA LOCATE LICOOKY=1 SHOULD ALSO BE PROVIDED, BUT AS NOTED PARA

“1 (A) ABOVEs HSCA WILL INITIATE CONTACT AND NO DIRECT STATION ACTION

a

py

REQUIRED. IN CASE OF GERENDE AND LIONION@1, STATION WILL BE REQUIRED
MAKE CONTACT AND ARRANGE FOR INTERVIEWS,

6. PER PARA 1 (E) ABOVE, TICHBORN WILL BE INTERVIEWED AS
FORMER AGENCY EMPLOYEE, AND STATION WILL BE EXPECTED CONTACT, ASSUM=
ING HE IN MEXICO, AND ARRANGE INTERVIEW AT CONVENIENCE OF HSCA AND
AT SITE THEIR CHOOSING, FOLLOWING IS BACKGROUND INFO ON TICHBORN
CIDENTITYJOFOR STATION USE: A,

t

EDWARD G. TICHBORN (P) WAS HIRED IN Late (i959 AS POLITICAL)
SECRET


14-00000 1

pipeeepestettnea) ’ . Clas
c fee
SECRET
STAFF
78 1024592 PAGE 003
TOT: 2218492 JUL 78 DIRECTOR 261709

08 24

ACTION ADVISOR} FOR AGENCY=SPONSORED KELECTIONJOPERATIONS THROUGHOUT
SATIN awenica/ 1961 HE BECAME F “TIME TONTRACT AGENT AND WAS 24
ASSIGNED TO. MEXICO.CITY pee PERSONAL VER WHICH (HIE HIM TO
TRAVEL ON THIRD COUNT! fer CAL” ACTION) ASSIGNMEN PG HILE BASED 24
IN MEXICOJHE WAS PRIM OS® a ag BUT. IN ADDITIONs ASSISTED

» THE: STATION BY ESTABLISHING? INING ae AIMED AT24Y
“4 LATIN: AMERICAN NINE] inte UALS ANI EN GREP ORTING ON ACTIVITIES/ATTITUDES
24 MEXICAN LEFT=WINGJ INT! LLECTUALS) rai, NA ASON. iB

zy
VISION HAD OP} TUNITY 6 use ial AS [POLITICAL ACTION ADVISOR 24

FT MEXICO IN. AUG

urine M7, top

ON ONE eccasronels LE piece ALSO MADE MAJOR EFF TO DEVEL

. « IN@DEPRTH caso iE PREMIN MEXICO BUT, AS OF MAY 1967 g)THIS EFFORT
“WAS DROPPED BECAU ate agen} ICTANCE ON PART OF HIS I CONTACTS TQ @
DISCUSS SENSITIY gS) AND TO IN TROON FE HIM 7.0 OTHER CONTACTS
“ALTHOUGH SCHEDULE NATION.ON 30 ‘SEPT 19674) a) HE FINALLY i

\ SEVERED HIS RELATIONSH a HIS (COVER owe gePr 31 AUG 1968 )z4s A
AND RECEIVED HIS TERMINATION SETTLEMENT on EPT- 19689: Pa THE LAST

C KNOWN ADDRESS (DOI NOw 1966) FOI TICHBORNeT 900 ARLINGTON AVENUE OS
RIVERDALE, NEW YORK, HOME PHONE (fete) Hays,

C 7. APPRECIATE STATION EFFORTS TO COPE WITH REQUIREMENTS IMPOSED

~ ON US BY HSCA AND OUR OWN CONCERN FOR SECURITY IN MEETING DEMANDS
PLACED BY HSCA, HSCA DEPUTY COUNSEL GARY CORNWELL WAS TOLD AT 22 JULY
MEETING THAT CAPT. GOODING, AS REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DC1+ WOULD MAKE

C EVERY EFFORT TO RESOLVE (WITH COS PARTICIPATION) ANY PROBLEMS THAT
MAY ARISE DURING HSCA VISIT TO MEXICO. IN VIEW OF THE IMPORTANCE OF
THIS MATTER WE ASK THAT STATION MAKE A MEXIMUM EFFORT TO ENSURE THE

© SUCCESS OF THE HSCA MISSION.

C 8. NO FILE, E2 IMPDET.>
“ORIG: LA/MGSB/M (HAWKINS) AND C/LA/STAFFB (STURBITTS)3 CooRD:

C/PCS (PAGE)? C/LAD (WARREN) AUTH: C/LA/MGSB (HAWKINS)? REL?
C DDO (STURBITTS BY DIRECTION OF) CL 8Y 029163,<

C END OF MESSAGE : SECRET

ANT)
