104-10096-10218 [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
e Boe

Office Memorandum ° UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Exe) : File 7 DATE: 25° January 1952 |
FROM : i ; : i . RETURNTOCIA. “Ht
ou ee . Background Use Only al
suBjEcT: Kelly Case *. Do-Not Reproduse |

: : i

|

On Friday, 25 Jamary 1952, the writer was called to the office i
of Mr. Bannerman for the purposa of a conference with one ur [Prickett
EE/OPC, concerning the instant case. : 03

sr brishoet)eptatowt in substance the Kelly case as follows:

Kelly, (whose real name is Dimitrov) » is a 29-year-old Bulgarian and
‘was the head of a small political party based in Greece and ostensively —
working for Bulgarian independence. Kelly was described by[Prichet§) 03”
as being young, ambitious, bright (elementary college education), a
sort of a 'man-on-a-horse" typs but a typical Balkan politician. . Ac-

. Q cording to Prichettl, our people discovered that French Intelligence i
Service attempting to bribe Kelly and make him a double agent and :
Kelly was looking with favor upon the French offers. sreordingly, 2 the J}
plot was rigged in which Kelly was told he was going to be her E
and a3 a "protection", he was placed in custody of the Greek Police
who threw Kelly into a Greek prison. Kelly was held in the Greek pri-

-8on for six months until the Greek authorities decided that Kelly was

. & nuisance and they told our people to take him back. Since our
people were unable to dispose of Kelly in Greace, thay flew hin to
Panama where, through arrangement, ha was placed.in a U.S. Military
Hospital as a psychopathic patient. Kelly now has been in the U.S..
military hospital for several months and the hospital authorities now .
want to get him out since he is causing considerable trouble, bothering

_ other patients, etc. Kelly is not a psychopathic personality. :

[brietd}expiainea that they can dispose of Kelly by. the. simple
process of sénding him to a friend of his in Caracas, Venezuela, and
as far as they are concerned, that type of disposal is perfectly o.k.
However, becense of his confinement in a Greek prison and his stay in
a military hospital, Kelly has become vary hostile toward the United
States and our intelligence operations in particular. Hence, OPC is
-considering an "Artichoke" approach to Kelly to see Lf it would be
possible to re-orient Kelly favorably toward us. This operation, which
will necessarily involve the use of args is being: considered by OPC ~
with a possibility that Dr.[Etke)and [Mike Wladyclt carry ont the
operation presumably at the military hospital in Panama. Also in-
volved in this would be a arian interpreter who is a consultant
to this Agency since nedthor [Beka \nor|Gleweelepeck Bulgarian. |
: oF vs. : : :

' Mr. Bannerman pointed ont tolbrivhett\that this type of operation
could only be carried out with the authorization of Security and that,
under no circumstances whatsoever, could anyone bat an authorized M.D.
administer drags to any subject of this Agency of any typs. Bannerman
pointed out that there was a strong possibility that the military


Venezuela could in fact be laid on.

° time and the + fact that an interprster is necessary in the case con-"

»
a

. a ony? i

: tais
authorities wi not permit their hospital 40 be used for/type of worle
and also that a’ re-conditioning operation aus this type might take as.

long as 30-602 Bannerman further pointed cat that ioc af s Ft
operation were carried on, Security Neg hava to be cognizant af it,
would have to be co-ordinated into the ‘Organéeebbon and would possibly
take over.and run the operation themselves since this type of work

is one 24 which Security randles 7 Lay 7

., It, was agreed between[Eri Seed) Bannerman, and the writer that
conference would be laid on Monday afternoon when OPC representatives

oN and the Bulgarian interprater return from Boston and their talk with
0} \[tixe Gladych| At which time, the angles would be explored and a dis-
patch’ smcepe would be forwarded to our people in Panama directing. them to

find out whether the Army would permit such an operation ard whether ©

the Army would allow the Agency to have the use of the necessary rocma,
medical facilities, etd. as would be required for this type of operation.

At this time,sit was alse to be determined whether the disposal of Kelly 7.

Comment: deerme: : : eed ee Pa a
This particule: Speration was , mentioned in general terms to the

writer by Mr.(Walter Driscoll] approximately thirty days ago on an in-
* formal basis but no significant details were given at this tine.

While the techniques that Sea) ana (G1-8sc8) are considering for use
in this cass is not known to the writer, the writer believes the approach
will be made through tha standard narco-hypnosis techniqua. Re-conditioning
and re-orienting an individual in such a matter, in the opinion of-the
“writer, cannot be accomplished easily and will require a great deal of

plicates it considerably more. It is also believed that with our present
knowledge, .we would have no absolute guarantee that the subject in this -
case would maintain a positive friendly attitude toward us even though -
there is apparent a successful response to the treatment. The writer
did not suggest. ibfieacnst that perhaps a total.amnesia could be created
by a series of electro shoc! but merely indicated that amnesia under
drugz treatments were not certain. . =

MORSE ALLEN

