# 104-10185-10174

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10185-10174

DANTE. 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

PatE

IR USC

GNATHE El TAKA LO NOT DADDAS tO NA UNBURSON

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FURELES DISSEY

RETURN TO CIA

Mackground Use Only

Do Not Roproduce

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT Ramiro VALDES Henendez

DATE DISTR

CS:1-BIE-GEBIZ€5

7 June This

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

CS-311"00*4568

(I8g= 1

8 July IStE

DATE OF

INFO

1964

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE AC

•AgrIl 1965)

THES 1S LNEVALUATED

FIELD REPORT NO

ADINOS ANE DIFINITIVE APPRAISAL O$ COI

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer tho served with the Cubas Intelligence

Service until April 1901.

Headquarters Comments:

The following refort is one of a series cortaining fersonality

information provided by the source and includes sufplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addresses

take no action or any =

the Individuals mentioned in the persorallty reports mitrut

first checking with unis agency.

1.

Ramiro VALDES Menendez, the Minister of Intorior, lives ta &

house on Ith Avenue between 66th and 68th

street.

The briga

is only a short distance from the Departamento

Vacional (National Liberation Department - uN) Icca+t =E*==

Avenua in the Miramar district of Havana.

3. VALDES was married to one Irina VALDES; however, SCrEtiR- FraGI

to April 1964, they mere divorced.

S-I-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I OLA

REPCISCLIVT

(Mare: Frede

I ARMY

CINCSO *

ladicated by -#')

NAVY

IS'S

INSA

INFORMATION REPORT

INTORMATION RERC-T

II/LIN

DHE RE

WEE'CS

RID'AN

3 TE BRITISHIT

L WASHNERY

11-2133

1E70--à

000001104.900

TOTAL $55, 8 (1), NE 1 (1), CIA. RID 1

1I1180M #

FORM ST •

4/ d

201-265065

---

