[t04-10186-10088) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

. é CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

. Thus matertal copteine Informatinn afecting the Nationa! Defense of the United States witnin the mrasing of tbe Recuonage Lawn
Ha USC Boca Tod and 7H the tranemimica of fervlation of which in any Guster to en uBauiheriaed perwoe W probisited 35

if S-E-C-R-EST
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

REPORT NO, €S-311/01258-65 ‘

COUNTRY Cuba
“sumect Policy Guidance Directives for pare piste. «= 4 February 1965,
Cuban Intelligence Representatives :
in Haiti » NO, PAGES. 6 ae
nererences  CS-311/00115-64 :
perce Nag CS-311/00345-64
DATE OF 1963 — FN Dunaideed.
hana 2 OL
PLACE &
Nufilay FIELD REPORT NO.

DATE ACQ. June _1964
THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPEAISAL OF CONTENT (S TENTATIVE,

source: A former Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban
Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment. The following is & translation of a docu-

‘at which Source provided containing the policy guicance direct-
ve for Cuban intelligence representatives in Haiti, prepared by
the General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de™
Inteligencia -- DGI), MA Department. The MA Department no longer
exists as such, having been divided into two departments: Illegal
Department (Ilegal) and National Liberation Department (Liberacion

Nacional -- LN). :

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION
COUNTRY: HAITI

Priority:

1, Plans of aggressicn against Cuba,
2. Progressive political forces,
3. Attitude of the political parties toward the Cuban Revolution.

4, Movement for solidarity with Cuba,

5. Strategic information,
6. The Communist Party of Haiti. (Party of Popular Accord.)

Important:

7. Relations with the United States,

8, Internal politics of the country.

9. Social situation.

10. Internal situation of the Arned Forces.

11, The Church,

12, Functions, characteristics. and information on members of the
foreign service and the accredited diplomatic corps in the country.

5 5

4 4

3 S-E-C-R-E-T 3

: NO FOREIGN DISSEM H
Crate oa Tamer Tear Tak Tes TREX Toce

REPCINCLANT. [&NS +
Nets, fald disrvton indicated by nace

Cached Page
at T

{ j LX~ 2307
— fer Distrat fuptvcn 3 Tt
Bierce SARL A

E 3,C1 21,RID/.
AF 8¢8: EE s! on Aiba

NE 7 Hed

=

12) Sy



Gipy

-la- CS-311/01258-65
Hdgrs Dissem ¥E/1 1 EE/GNVA 5
: WE/2 1 L___ 1
WH/COPS 1 ¥E/3 Y EE/HAMB 1
WH/PO/A 1 WE/4 1 1
WH/PO/B 1 WE/5 1 |
WH/1 1 WE/BC 1 \| FE/DJAK 1
WH/2 13 WE/R 1 1
WH/3 1 1
WH/3/V ~ 1 Field Dissem FE/TOKY 1
WH/4 1 aa 1
WH/S 1 WH/MEXI 1 FE/SEOU 1
WH/6 1 WH/MNTY 1 ea
WH/R 1 WH/MRID 1 1.
WH/SDOM 1
WH/SA/EOB 5 1 2
WH/SA/MOB 5 oo. 1
¥H/SA/R 4 WH/KNGS 1 1
WH/SA/Int 1 WH/PRIN ri r
WH/SA/CI 30 WH/GORG 1 1
WH/SA/SO/NS- 1 WH/MANA 1 2
WH/SJOS 1 1
CI/Staff 5 WH/SALV 1 wi
CI/Liaison 1 WH/TEGU 1 z
CI/REA 3 WH/GUAT 1 1
RID/AN sy WH/LAPA 1 1
[e}) WH/BOGO 1 NE/BET. 1
AF/1 2 WH/OUIT 1 1
AE/2 1 1 1
AF/3 1 1 1
AF/4 1 WH/CARA 1 a
AF/R 3 WH/BUEN 1 1
AF/CI 1 1 NE/CAIR 1
WH/MONT 1 1
EE/K 1 1
EE/SA 1 WH/SAGO 1 WE/BRUS 1
EE/BR. 1 WH/RIOD 1 1
EE/YA a 1 1
EE/H 1 1 WE/OTTA 1
EE/P i Wii/SAOP 1 WE/ROME 1
EE/C 1 1 1
EE/IIS 1 1 WE/HAGU 1
: 1 1
FE/PMI/T 1 1 WE/LISB 1
FE/JKO/JO 1 oJ | we/MADR 1
FE/JKO/K 2 WH/SA/WAVE 5 1
FE/VNC/VN 1 . WE/STOC 1
FE/R 4 AF/ALGL 1 WE/LOND 1
FE/CI 4 1 WE/PARI 1
‘AF/RABA 1
NE/AA/L&S 1 AF/CASB 1 Liaison Dissem
NE/AA/AP 1 1
NE/AA/E 1 1 1EfCanada | i}
NE/SA/T 1 1 (RCMP), 1
NE/5/P 1 @ 1 YEABri " 1
NE/6/C&I 1 42 L/WASHABR} t{ 1
NE/Intel 1 EE/VIEN 1
EE/SBUR 1
SR/CI 1 1
SR/CI/K 1 EE/ATHE 1
SR/RR 1 1
SR/O/WH 1 EE/BERN 1
S-E-C-R-E-T

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSE

NO FOREIGN DISSEM



S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-2- CS-311/01258-65

13, The press,
14, Operative data,
Necessary: :

15. Condition of the national economy. a
16, Governmental structure and functions of its organs, n

Essentia
1, PLANS OF AGGRESSION AGAINST CUBA:

a, Military pacts, JQ

b, Operations within the OAS (Organization of American Stat~s)
and the JID (Junta Inter-Americana de Defensa - Inter-An rican
Defense Board). fe

©, Possibilities of a break with Cuba by the countries which
have diplomatic relations with her. a

a N
Possibilities of isolation through the application of Itter-
American Treaties such as the Treaty of Rio and the Punta wel
Este agreements, ae

2, PROGRESSIVE POLITICAL FORCES:

a. The Party of Popular Accord (PEP), strength, organization,
leaders. Information on the same, Programs, ties with
foreign leftist political parties. Propaganda methods.
Attitude toward the Cuban Revolution.

b. Other political organizations. Leaders, information on the
same. Forces, propagaada methods, programs. Ties.

c, Contact and knowledge, reaction to political and economic
changes in Cuba,

3. ATTITUDE OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES TOWARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION:

a. Toward the Second Declaration of Havana,

i b. With regard to Cuban-Soviet relations in questions affect-
E ing Cuba and world peace,

c. With regard to accusations that Cuba is a base of Communist
aggression against the Latin American countries,

4. MOVEMENT FOR SOLIDARITY WITH CUBA:

a. Find out whether the Solidarity Novement has been organized,

in what form it functions, who its directors are, etc,

b. Find out the possibilities for demonstrations of active
solidarity that the progressive organizations can offer,

5.. STRATEGIC INFORMATI

a, Because of its nearness to our coasts and favorable posi-
tion for carrying out any hind of action against Cuba, the
search must be undertaken for information concerning the

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



ARMED FORCES OF HAITI:

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-3- CS-311/01258-65

possibility that imperialism is using this tsland as a base
of operations against our country.

b, Because of the lack of information to guide the search for
concrete data and information, the established principle
must be followed of working along the departmental Jines,
common to all sections of the Department,

Notwithstanding what has been previously mentioned, we deem
it advantageous to point out several important questions on
which work must be begun immediately,

BASES OF COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY OPERATIONS:

Localization of camps or bases of operations of counter-
revolutionary launches, Characteristics of the same, Ships
encountered in this, Nationality of the individuals forming
the crew of the ships, armaments of the same, plans and ob-

jectives of their attacks, and date when they will be carried

out.

b, Counterrevolutionary organizations which will participate in
these activities, el«ments which will be in charge of the.

same, names, and functions,

Utilization of Dominican «lements (Trujillo followers) in this
work.

c.

Organizations of the Armed Forces, units and troops, arma-
ments, transport, and bases, commanding officers of the

same, Budgetary allotments.

b. Military agreements cf a secret nature signed by Haiti with
the United States for the Latin American countries, Terms
of the same. Established agreements.

Utilization of the territcry of Haiti for carrying out Latin
American army manoeuvres. Dates of the same and armies which

are participating, Troops,

d. Military concentratiens of any type which are carried out on
Haitian territory, Armies, units, and troops. Date,

TUE COMMUNIST PARTY OF HAITI. (PARTY OF POPULAR ACCORD):

a, Attitude toward the Second Declaration of Havana,
b, Attitude concerning Cuban-Soviet relations,

Actitude toward the lines followed by Cuba in the national
and international political systems,

d. Attitude with regard to the disagreements in the international
communist movement:

In the case of China and the USSR.
In the case of Albania and the USSR,
With regard to Yugoslavia-China-USSR-Albania,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


CS-311/01258-65

With regard to peace,

With regard to peaccful coexistence,

e, Internal situation in the Party of Popular Accord:

Forces,
Activities, : ‘
Disagreements, : \
Leaders (information on the same),
f. Relations with leftist forces: t
Disagreements. :
Possibilities of uniting all of the leftist forces, .
Methods of combat officially adopted by the party.

Work of the party in the cities and the countryside, tend~
ing toward the creation of revolutionary awareness in the

people,
i, Relations of the party with the bourgeois parties,

gj. Solidarity work with the Cuban Revolution,
k. Publicity medina which the Party organizes.

1, Repression endured by the party at the ‘hands of the Duvalier
dictatorship, Status of the party with regard to legal and
illegal operations,

Relations of the party with the Dominican Popular, Socialist
Party and the Communist Parties of other Latin American
countries, i

7, RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:

a, Alliance for Progress, Peace Corps.
b. Relations with North American credit organizations,

North American military assistance, role of the American |
military mission.

c.

a. The North American Embassy, Inforration on the Ambassador
and Embassy personnel,

e. Activities of the North American Intelligence corps,

S$. INTERNAL POLICY OF THE COUNTRY:

a, Existing bourgeois political parties: composition, forces,
propaganda methods, leaders, information on the same, Pro-

grams,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN


10,

ll.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-s- CS-311/01258-65
Relations of the bourgesis political parties with the
“Yankco" Embassy, the monopolies, ahd>ttie churches,

Political organizations, information on the sane, origin,
tics, Orientation,

Need of collaborators for tnformat ion.

Hastie the. political parties obtain funds,

SOCTAL SITUATION: -

c.

INTERNAL SITUATION OF THE ARMED FORCES:

b.

CHURCH:

Conflicts of ecunomic origin manifested ag racial demande,
Leade: information oa ° sane.

Economic and political predcatnance of racial
lations of these groups with the ““Yankee*:
information on the same,

Re>
Leaders,
Yorker, student, and peasant organizations, Structure,

strength, and ce teatatrce. Leaders information on the
same,

eae r

The armed forces. Structure. Social composition, organi-
zations, equipment. Troops, Barracks or encampments,

Coupist (coup d'état) groups within the Armed Forces, In-
formation on Colonel Ornei, his ties, etc,

Military relations of Haiti with other Latin American
countries,

Ideological training cf the Armed Forces, Material and
reasoning used,

Information on soldiers who are in the International Organi-
zations of the JID and U.N; and on the military attachés in
the Latin American courctries,

Restrictive bodies; erganization aud activities,
Eclesiastical Hierarchy. :
Situation between tne native and foreign clergy.

Participation of the Church in the internal political life
of the country, Governaental opposition,

Influence of ‘the Church among the popular sectors; workers,
peasants, students.

Campaigns of the Church against Cuba, arguments.
Relation of the Church with the plans of the United States,
Influence of the Church ow education in the country,

NO FOREIGN DISSEM



S-E-C-R-E-T : fade
NO FOREIGN DISSEN _ #

-6- CS-311/01258-65

\TYON ON MEMBERS. OF
104 os wiwntns oe sn

12, FUNCTIONS” CHARACTERISTICS,
FOS RET “SERVICE AND THE?
WO

a, U.N,
b. OAS and JID,

c. Officials. th acd Tree ce Lita Agriem countetes.

@, Information on tho internal political life of the country,
obtained in diplomatic csrcles,; Z

PRESS;

Information on journalists and the existing discemination
organs, The { ‘the: journalis.s both in caHsssestedsesss

the country and abroad, for our work.

14, OPERATIVE INFORMATION:

Possibilities of illogally penetrating into the country a1.
taking advantage of the proximity of the eastern coasts of ©

Cuba,

Necessary
15, CONDITION OF THE NATIONAL ECONOMY: " feet

North American investments and their influence on the
country,

>. Belgian investments and their influence on the country,
Other foreign capital and its influence on the country.

a, Level of unemployment.
Exports and imports, levels and characteristics.

f{, Characteristics of domestic capital, Economic areas of
major investment, itS relationships with foreign capital,

Haiti's position with regard to Central American economic
integration,

16, GOVERNMENTAL STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS QF THE ORGANS:

Relations between the Presidency and the Ministries,

bd. Information on personages closest to and most influential
with Duvalier,

¢, The Congress, -The most outstanding figures. Relations with
the Government, the "Yankee" Embassy, and the monopolistic
enterprises,

a. The Judiciary persons holding high positions. Important
laws, Restrictive laws, Relationships between the Judiciary
and other authorities,

‘Information on offtetals having aathority over areas of the
country.

'S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEX
