# 104-10413-10262

## Page 1

1704-10413-10262

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

Chiri, Wl Division

INFO.

FROM

Chief, SR Divisioni

PROCESSING ACTION

MARRED CUR INDIXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRLD

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

Chief of Station, Mexico City

MICROFILM

SUBJECT

(' LCIMPROVE/LIENVOY - Terro de VANSTRAM or VANSTROIN (phonetic)

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

1.

Forwarded under separate cover as Attachment A are two LIENVOY

transcripts of 12 November 1903 and two LINVOY transcripts of 17 Movember

1963 which Headquarters may consider for transmittal to Station Scoeisholm.

Forwarded under separate cover an Nilachment B is a photocraph of

an unidentified male (who was acconpanled by an unidentified female whose

photoraph the Station asset did not obtain) who vinited the soviet Ambassv

al 1400 hours on 12 November 1963.

The Station believes this male is iden-

tical with Subjeci since the male in the photograph is the only midentifie

male who was also accompanied by a woman anl, secondly, this mle appears

to be a nordic type.

The Station recognizes,

that Subject may hate

only claimer to be a Swede for cover purposes.

The following is the comment made by Douglas J. FRINGLASS, the

Station's LILIVOY translator, concorning Aütachment A:

"The exact spelling of this neme could not be determined.

slarted by saying that it is - W -1 - I.. and then stopper, emphasizim

the two dots above A.

It is very strange that ne,

being a Swede did to'

seck the aid of his Swedish Consulate,

but applied to the Sovirl m-

baosy aud aoked for a man, kion he ne. by chance (?) in e restzurant.

Thut, stranger still is the response of he Embasay officials, vno veni.

oilt of their way to find a ship for him.

Usually requests of his

miure are wrushed aside and quite oflen in a very made manner.

trom his non-British accent and almost flawless English,

he must; have

lived in ‹ne United States or Canada for quite some time.

(The Station

RETHOUD officcr agrees with FEINGIASS' connent regarding

the nial re-

Juctance oi Soviet Embassy officinlo to help in a maitor of this lypo.)

4. Station Mexico has no rocord of any member of the Soviet alibassy

travelling to Caraca during this period.

cation llexico h

2 So stepo traces or. Blaject

DistriLicio

12 - It v/alt 1 & B (u/s/c)

1 - 5R w/ail 1 & B (11/s! c)

CROSS REFERENCE TO 1 - T Slife 1/A

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

I0T1A-22650

Exclutes them alamese

downrading and

declassillco. los

DATE

50-1 - 75

1P Deenber 1005

HOS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

---

