# 104-10175-10139

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10175-10139

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

GASSFLATE.

FESCESSING

SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Cries of statione Caterela City

Chief, all Division

HAPTE FA FIXINSA

**

іно Шосж КИЙ

car juli is

cas iisi asoura

ABSTINET

пест

LICOCKY

ACTION REQUIRCO RETLRENCES

Forwarded for Station's infornation are the results of

RETURNTO

Subject's debriefing subsequent to her appearance before the Senate

Subconni: tee and additiosal comments nado to the case officer doing:

the debriefing.

cheround Use Only.

Nui Reproduce

2.: The Subcomnittee hearings, according to Subject, lasted

approximately four hours. The members appeared to be interested in

four sain points:

a.

AREVALO's book, The Shark and The Sardines, agd

particularly in whether it was rinanced from cuba; and

what Subject

new about the publisher, Lydi Stuart;

b. Her connections with the Fair Play for Cuba Committee;

What cobfore tanus of any connection hetween the Cuban

li and recently publicized narcotics traffic in Miani;

Subject's general background and activities in Cuba.

3.

Subject stated that she had given the subcomittee certain

papers she had concerning the book and had given thea knat informa-

rion she had concerning the autor and the publisher.

She inforzed

the Subconmittee that she was not a member of the Fair play Coumitteed

but was in contact with Richard GIBSON and other men:ars of the

Committee.

Subject told the Subcommittee that she bas not aware

of any connection between the Cuban CP and narcotics entering Niani.

She gave then her general background and told them of her wor. in

Cuba; she said that her employment record apparently so confused

the Subcomnittee that thay did not press for additional details;

and she was thus able 1o avoid any direct questions which might

have proved embarrassing regarding her connections with us.:

Subject said (to the case officer debriefing her) that she

has written

letters to liubert H. Humphry, Delesseps MorrisoR and

CATE TYPED

DATE DISINATENLO

5 Apr 62

111 APR 1962

Distribation:

2= lexico City

1 = Guatemals City

¡ CROSS FEMIRENCE TO

- - -

DISFATC, SUMBOL NED NUMBER

HMMN - 10566

HEADQUARTERS FUE PO'SIBER

CLASSIEETIOM

SECRET

201-278841

Tf/3/Mexico

Te torrin

CRIGINATING

TYPIST

O3 COORDINATING

IMI

*2555

P.I

-311/3/Nex1/cị

INFICE STABOL

CATE

MILES NAME

WHt3/11

51539802

C/sID 5i

Wait

•=£-52

505% 53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION REPLACES TORN 61D0 FINDA LAST BE USED

(60)

FELEASING

NATURE

Duting

In 7036540

DISPATCH

Z1BR

---

## Page 2

3 80

1a01

DISPATCH SYMBOL HIT KIMBER

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECREI

Muri- 111205

Richard Goodwin concerning the paragraghs about President Kennedy

which were deleted by Lyle Stuart fron The Sharl. and The

(preface).

Subject also said she had called Pichard Lecamin after

the appearance of the white Pajer on Cuba aud Called to sis attention

the fact that the preface de CASTRO's llistory will Absolre He,

attributed to Luis CONTE Acquirre, did not appear in lie criginal

Spanish edition but was written

for the later English translation

(apparently after CONTE cranged his vichs).

the Jourial American,

Cobb stated that after the hearingsiicieli,

two reporters from

FRASCA and! John

approached her

For statemeris on CASTPC, the Cubar invasion, and tle irportatior

into Florida of narcotics

fron Cuba.

Tney did refer to KUBARI

in a rather oblique fashion asking

if any other government agencies

such

as the FBI, Narcotics Sureau, or KUBAlK had been in touch wich

her concerning these

Tad SZULC of the lew Yord Times, at her request, and Drew

ANDERSON, also contacted her.

discussed an interpretation he had done of CASTRO's latest haranque,

in wich lie expressed the opinion that CASTRO is changing his

ANDERSON was interested in persuading subject to write

her personal experiences.

had a photograplier take pictures

if she did submit such an

advised Subject that if

she did in fact prepare

KUBARK would want to revier it befere

also stated that SZULC was not in favor of the planied visit of

Gusteralan Fresident YDIGOPAT.

Subject discussed at sone length her association with

Carlos Manuel PELLECER.

feels that basically he is not a devout

Concunist but that his vaiue

to the Party is suc!: that many of his

indiscretions are overlocked.

She naned as friends of PFLLECER a

CarLo POLANCO (roommate),

a (fnu) VITERKI.

Rual Nester FUENTES, a Saivadurian, as a friend of PELLeCEs.

In terponse to a question whether there had been any mention

Te ada saterasan antsver of be ense a reportedly receive az

Tejada, Guateralan Minister of Defense,

Cuba. (The presusable source of

this information

was vertali MURCIA)

Subject showed the case officer shapshots and Life articles;

with pictures of PELLECER.

She also explained that PELLICER did not

want her to carry the Soviet propaganda which she was carrying when

she was arrested in Guatemala,

and suggested she clear herself with

the press.

de arparently sugrested she urite lo Time In reply to

the article knich appeared about lier.

other individuals mentioned by Subject included an

Argentine,

PORTHEIN, who according to FELLECER

is still in

Chirate with

a mobile heatch unit, despite sone differences wich

tue ¿ASTRO regimo; and sho might bo of possille interest to kubark.

Sho also mentioned Edelberto TORRES, NioN

Huberto TOPRES Plinero, presently a guerilla in the

she has net uatomalan hills.

Subject requested the return of certain letters given to the

case officer from ARLVALO, Cesar RODRIGUEZ, and Sara GUASil.

on Saturday, 31 March 1962,

she went to see Aubassador

DELOSSUpS NCERISON.

As with Tad SZULC, her mission

nas to per before

the press ARaVALO's desire to clarify the deletions nade from his

and its preface.

te hãu urgod curect to contact as many

individuals as possible and express lis real viens on the book.

END DE DISPAICH

530

USE PREVIOUS KONTION

CONTINE

SECRFI

Tan

W/SR

---

