104-10276-10236 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

EXCERPTS
TO: Calef, Special Affairs Staffs Chief of Base, Merida ROU-21605
IPO: Chief of Station, VA“E; G/WH Division 2 June 1963
FM: Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT: Contact Reporte/LITAMIL-7 >
LITMIL-7 i

Attached, for addressees, are copies of Subject contact reports dated
11 June [ aie J, 15 June, and 18 June 1963.

Willard C, CURTIS

ewe cece ncssesessesessseresesoseseres

atracmonts [RxIcERPTS 7
10 June 1963 Meotisigs

4. On 10 Juné-1963,(LITAKIL-7) reported that the Central Anerican whos volve
been trying to ident ror 80 many months ..... told her his nano was
Mauricio. (COMMENT: It 1s now believed that this person is Mauricio DE
LA SELVA, Salvadoran. Communist arid poet.) +0... DE LA SELVA was talking
with Manuel VEGA Perez, +ss00

b, (Epreported that Jove Antonio GARCIA Lara, ska *Hico", has rented an
partment at the following address:

Bugenio Sue 238 "B" ‘Mo phone
Colonia Polanco

Se ported that Andres ARMONA's wife and children returned to Habana
‘on 10 June 63. (CCMMENT: Irma, Fidel end Margarita MILAN, Cubans,

Yeft Mexico for Habana on 10 June 63 ~ LIFIRE B/Doc.)

14 June 1963 Meeting:
cores

- 5. Teresa PROEVZA told(I_7) that her sister, "Cuchita™ PROENZA de ROJAS ie
very anxious to go to Hoscow. (L-7)said she thinks that she will be

going to the Congresso de Mujeres.

6 a
i ted that

| It was previously repo! fe
| <cagonmrs

F

18 June 1963 Meeting:

3. On 17 June 63, Antonio "Nico" GARCIA Lara, Cuban Commercial Attache, sent
INU, Bmbassy *mensajero", tc get an export license. Upon hie return
‘Le? Na:
L-? Jaa!

sked him to see the licen: he, had obtained and he showed it to bers
id it dealt with the exportation of seeds, ssss«

sees OC/- 339253

BICERPTS EMNA~21605
21 June 1963
