# 104-10121-10174

## Page 1

104-10121-10174 .

[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SPATCH

CALI CALLOO

PROCESSING Al

MTCH4T

Chief, Far Inst Diviston

ChiCK, NOBONE

13-7

Chicf of Station, (Viertland

RYBAT YIDUST - CD MILI - Canage Report

QUINED - REFERENCES

13-

Glintlane, Co!1

ALcatione 150.

Di vientionatonar

MARKED FOR INDI XIIG

NO INDEXING REQUIRIO

ONLY QUALIFIED DISK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM TiF

ti

03-

1:03 station hag beca sarisco

03 End thoy are currentty redding an Rottton, Pennsylvanta

eming also advised thatte

has hopes to get employnent

with R.C.A. and bo assigaed to

• Caribbean

clanatriad project in these

area.

It is difficult

densitive Intormacione

Bacca bow much, 19 eny,

1= nay have conveyed to i

Howcver, it has bech determined that. during.

the ten and one-half months i

roducod her to the following worths personnel:

Lawrene Mi,

37-1

1509

The following wore identified to her by

Oh toxic upcountry in tao with ea

224 03.

DES REFERENCE TO

attachnent:

1 - IDEN, USC/THP

Distribution:

C/FL,

# IDEN USC/TU?

1 - C/NOR015, W IDER U3C/ TIP

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND MYMBER

7774,

CLASSIFICATION

-continued-

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE

HOS FILE NUMBER

---

## Page 2

14-00000

VISPATCH

¿OiNINUATION OF

DISPATCH

MSOL 6'11

Fortre

02

It should bo noted that EJfra/l was curveilled

by a station ruricillance tcra o::

1:1 OCCAELINS ARE NEE

Icaorted to hive visitca Irella.

¿arganication's Vienti

CHITCH ChOST LYCO

on by this

statios, 13-7

leon w. Alburdas:

3223

PYRAT

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO POV? FrA

i%:

IDTNTITILS

29

IDEN A -

1910

---

