/1o4-10786-10166) “2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

2.

Thee material emcee taformetion efertirg Uns Mauonal, Delon of une Chins Grater evinia Lie amaing of ths Ripteags tare Tue
INURE Bove THs cod TA tne Wmmmeeeeng of rermnstion of chic Is nay mente oF an Losuthowed peremm te pmeunited by Ine

SECRET or :
NO FOREIGN DISSEW ©

CSCI-316/01268-65

countay Cuba REPORT NO.
suyect Julian NOVAS Fernandez - Date ost 19 March 1965
NO. PAGES. 1

‘ REFERENCES. CSCI-316 /00699-64 i
Ge 27 August 1964 f

DATE 7
wo,” 1964 : i dl aa
mace a Washington, D. C. :

care aca, March 1965 - FED REPORT NO.
Tels 18 UNEVALUATED INCOSMATION. SOURCE O€ADWNOS AGE DIPINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT ci TENTATIVE. a

source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban, Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

: RETURN TO CIA
The following report ts one of a éeries containing personafbacygrou

information provided by the source and includes supplementa To Not Rept
information from the records of this Agency.

Headquarters Comments

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

On 9 February 1965, source was again shown @ photograph of
Julian NOVAS Fernandez and he said that NOVAS is the Cuban Consul

in Jamaica. “OVAS is alxo a member of the Direccion General de

Intelligencia (Ceneral irectorate of Intelligence - nor.

Headquarters Comment

1. Aside from the information forwarded in the above referenced
report. this Agency has no pertinent additional information
on NOVAS.

5 ad 5

4 SECRET 4

7 NO FOREIGN DISSSM. : os es

ian]

ee]?
Travy 7 cry oa FT

cae ae
i REP _CINCLANT _CINCSO # TENS

Picass Fiid Georioctan bnltonted by “8°9

PROJECT (AMMUG)1)
SCi-316/01268-q5°

