‘*104-10127-10016) [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 i}

: C7 AIM 68K

+ : ro F 7
55/30/ SECRET one Meee, -

STAFF

ecg,
CONF: C/LA=8 INFO: ODPD#D, VR, FILEe D/DCIs DDO=4, CSRF, C/ClI=4,
C/CI/OCFL, C/EPS/COMP, C/EPS/EGe2, C/OG/DMS; C/PCS, C/PCS/CAC, C/PCS/LOC.
C/PCS/PGLs D/OLCe DDO/DO, ICSy OGCH2, (34/P)

78 1024592 PAGE 001
TOT: 221849Z JUL 78 DIRECTOR 261709

SECRET :
STAFF 2218492 DIRECIOR-261709

TOs IMMEDIATE Ico city,
NIACT MEXICO CITY,

RYBAT WNINTEL

REF: MEXICO CITY 45940 1022224

1. FOLLOWING POINTS RESOLVED AT MEETING WITH ROBERT
BLAKEY. CHIEF COUNSEL HSCA AND GARY CORNWELL. DEPUTY COUNSEL HSCA:

A. HSCA WILL CONTACT AND INTERVIEW LICHANT#1 CN BASIS HE
QUESTIONED DEBA GARRO DE GUERRERO GALVAN FOLLOWING KENNEDY ASSASSINA-
“ TION, HSCA WILL NOT REVEAL THEIR KNOWLEDGE HIS UNWITTING USE FOR
ig CIA THROUGH LIHUFFe1,

B. HSCA WILL CONTACT AND INTERVIEW LICOOKY=1 AND LIHUFFe1
ON BASIS THEY U.S. CITIZENS WHO RESIDENT IN MEXICO AT TIME OF KENNEDY
ASSASSINATION. AS YOU AWARE LICOGKY/1 HAS RECEIVED WIDE PUBLICITY
AS RESULT JACK ANDERSON ARTICLE IN PARADE" MAGAZINE ON 12 AUG 1962
4S HAVING BEEN EMPLOYED IN CUBAN MINISTRY OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS 1959+
. $0 AND PERSONAL RELATIONSHIP WITH FIDEL CASTRO. LIHUFFel WILL BE
- INTERVIEWED ON BASIS HIS RESIDENCY IN MEXICO CITY SINCE 1949 AND HIS
ASSOCIATION WITH. GENERAL MOTORS AND AMERICAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE IN
MEXICO, HSCA WILL NOT REVEAL THEY AWARE 80TH HAD RELATIONSHIP
WITH AGENCY,

Cy HSCA WILL CONTACT AND INTERVIEW LITAMIL=7 AND @ ON BASIS
THEY FORMER EMPLOYEES ‘CUBAN EMBASSY MEKICO. HSCA ADVISED US THAT
ON PREVIOUS TRIP THEY INTERVIEWED OTHER FORMER MEMBERS CUBAN
EMBASSY MEXICO WITH ASSISTANCE MEXICAN AUTHORITIES. HSCA WILL NOT
REVEAL TREY AWARE OF FORMER CIA RELATIONSHIP,

0. HSC& REQUESTS THAT RAYMOND H, GERENDE AND LIONIGNe1 (IF
HE CAN BE LOCATED IN MEXICO) BE MADE AVAILABLE FOR INTERVIEW IN
HOTEL ROOM, HSCA SAID VOICE’ COMMUNICATION WILL BE SUFFICIENT, HOW=

SECRET

19827


SECRET
STAFF

78 1024592 PAGE 002
TOT: 2218492 JuL 76 DIRECTOR 261709

COR ORR OMe COCR OR Ee He REE ewe Rm aE Meet ee wem ene new un nee nnenmeneenrewnannnae

EVER, CLOSED CIRCUIT TV EQUIPMENT BEING SENT FOR POSSIBLE CONTINGENCY
USE.

Ee  KSCA HAS AGREED TO INTERVIEW EDWARD G, TICHBORN AS FORMER
AGENCY EMPLOYEE IN SAME MANNER AS DONE PREVIOUSLY WITH MR. CHARLES)
‘FLICK, ET AL.

2, HSCA WILL ACCEPT CAPT, GOODING'S VOUCHING FOR BONA FIDES
OF GERENDE AND LIONIONe1 WHO CAN USE ALIASES DURING INTERVIEW IF
THEY DESIRE,

3. HSCA CONFIRMED THAT THEY HAD REQUESTED EMBASSY TO ASK
MEXICAN. GOVERNMENT TO LOCATE ALL BUT GERENDE AND LIONION@{° FOR INTER}
VIEW PURPOSES, HSCA WILL BE TRAVELING OFFICIAL PASSPORTS. STATE
DEPT HAS NOT ADVISED HSCA WHERE THEY WILL BE BILLETTED.

4, IN VIEW AGREEMENT THAT ONLY GERENDE AND LJONION@{-WICL BE
INTERVIEWED UNDER INDIRECT (I.E. HOTEL ROOM WITH VOICE SYSTEM) CON=
DITIONS, STATION MAY BE ASLE ARRANGE SITE WITH LOWER PROFILE AND
2 BETTER SECURITY, AS WE SEE IT, MINIMUM REQUIREMENT WOULD BE FOR
ea PRIVATE SPACE FOR HSCA, FOR PERSON BEING INTERVIEWED AND FOR
CAPT, GOODING, TECH AND STATION OFFICER. HENCE APARTMENT OR SUITE
ITH THREE SEPARATE ROOMS SHOULD SUFFICE. :

a Ss AS STATION NOTES, P&SSAGE TO AG FLORES NAMES(LITAMIL=9,

\LITAMIL|©}¢ LICHANT@1, LIHUFF*1, CLARK FLORES AND PALCMARES PRECLUDES
ANY STATION ACTION TO CONTACT AND ARRANGE FOR INTERVIEW. HOWEVER,
ANY INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO STATION WHICH MIGHT ASSIST HSCA IN
LOCATING THEM SHOULD BE PROVIDED, SIMILAR INFORMATION WHICH MIGHT
HELP HSCA LOCATE LICOOKY*1 SHOULD ALSO 8£ PROVIDED, BUT AS NOTED PARA
a (A) ABOVE, HSCA WILL INITIATE CONTACT AND NO DIRECT STATION ACTION
REQUIRED. IN CASE OF GERENDE AND LIONION@1- STATION WILL BE REQUIRED
MAKE CONTACT AND ARRANGE FOR INTERVIEWS,

6. PER PARA 1 (E) ABOVE, TICHBORN WILL BE INTERVIEWED AS
FORMER AGENCY EMPLOYEE, AND STATION WILL BE EXPECTED CONTACT, ASSUM=
ING HE IN MEXICO, AND ARRANGE INTERVIEW AT CONVENIENCE OF HSCA AND
4T SI\E THEIR CHOOSING. FOLLOWING IS BACKGROUND INFO ON TICHRORN
CIDENTITYIOFOR STATION USE:

EDWARD G. TICHBORN (P) WAS HIRED IN LATE 1959 AS POLITICAL

SECRET



SECRET
STAFF
omen wen e meen ere w ewes me mere wna emweere mentee nn et ew wen eo sewn eenenenenenes
78 1024592 PAGE 003
TOT: 2218492 JUL 78 DIRECTOR 261709

ACTION ADVISOR FOR AGENCY=SPONSORED ELECTION OPERATIONS THROUGHOUT
LATIN AMERICA, IN 1961 HE BECAME FULL*TIME CONTRACT AGENT AND KAS
ASSIGNED TO MEXICO.CITY UNDER PERSONAL COVER WHICH PERMITTED HIM TO
TRAVEL ON THIRD COUNTRY POLITICAL ACTION ASSIGNMENTS. WHILE BASED
IN-MEXICO HE WAS PRIMARILY A HOS ASSET BUT, IN ADDITION, ASSISTED

THE STATION BY ESTABLISHING/RUNNING A MAGAZINE AIMED <AT
LATIN-AMERICAN INTELLECTUALS AND BY REPORTING S/ATTITUDES
OF MEXICAN LEFT@WING INTELLECTUALS, FOR PERSONAL REASONS, TICHBORN
LEFT MEXICO IN AUG DURING PERIOD HLA

DIVISION HAD OPPORTUNITY TO USE FE AS*POLITICAL ACTION ADVISOR
ON ONE OCCASION, FILE INDICATED HE ALSO MADE MAJOR EFFORT TO DEVELOP
IN=DEPTH STUDY OF THE PRI IN MEXICO BUT, AS OF MAY 1967, THIS EFFORT
WAS DROPPED BECAUSE OF RELUCTANCE ON PART OF HIS PRI CONTACTS TO
DISCUSS SENSITIVE PRI AREAS AND TO INTRODUCE HIM TO OTHER CONTACTS.
ALTHOUGH SCHEDULED FOR TERMINATION ON 30 SEPT 1967, HE FINALLY
SEVERED HIS RELATIONSHIP WITH HIS COVER COMPANY ON 31 AUG 1968

AND RECEIVED HIS TERMINATION SETTLEMENT ON 12 SEPT 1968. THE LAST
KNOWN ADDRESS (DOI NOV 1966) FOR TICHBORN WAS(5900 ARLINGTON AVENUE,
RIVERDALE, NEW YORK, HOME PHONE (212) 884*8728.°

7. APPRECIATE STATION EFFORTS TO COPE WITH REQUIREMENTS IMPOSED
ON US BY KSCA AND OUR OWN CONCERN FOR SECURITY IN MEETING DEMANDS
PLACED BY HSCA, HSCA DEPUTY COUNSEL GARY CORNWELL WAS TOLD AT 22 JULY
MEETING THAT CAPT. GOODING. AS REPRESENTATIVE OF THE OCI, WOULD MAKE
EVERY EFFORT TO RESCLVE (WITH COS PARTICIPATION) ANY PROBLEMS THAT
MAY ARISE DURING HSCA VISIT TO MEXICO. IN VIEW OF THE IMPORTANCE OF
THIS MATTER WE ASK THAT STATION MAKE A MEXIMUM EFFORT TO ENSURE THE
SUCCESS OF THE HSCA MISSION,

8. NO FILE, E2 IMPDET.>
ORIG: LA/MGSB/M (KAWKINS) AND C/LA/STAFFB (STURBITTS); COORD:
C/PCS (PAGE)? C/LAD (WARREN)? AUTH? C/LA/MGSB CHAWKINS)? REL?
DDO (STURBITTS BY DIRECTION OF) CL BY 029163.<

END OF MESSAGE - SECRET
