‘104-10102-10072
ae ¥

Pas

3,
4 \e Cy

[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PS

CHRONOLOGICAL SUMMARY

ut 1944

According to his prepared statement, dated 30 November
1962, OLTMANS claimed he had been arrested at the age of 19 [1944]
by the German S.S. to be liquidated.
{Hearing before the Senate Subcommitee to Investigate the Adminis-
tration of the Internal Security Act and Other Internal Security

. Laws of the Committee on the Judiciary, United States Senate, Eighty-
Seventh Congress, Second Session, 1963, p. 31.]

31 July 1945 - May 1946 :

OLTMANS entered the Royal Dutch Marine Corps as a war
volunteer. on 31 July 1945 and received an honorable discharge
therefrom in May 1946.

[FBI Field Report (FR) (New weld bistoigpeary 1962 - DBF 99933.]
LR,

get 21 Ostober 1948 : RELEASE 4g’ <yEW PROG

An American visa no. 188 was issidggje Hl on 27

eee
Octob er 1948 in Rotterdam, Holland.
(FBI FR (New York), 29 June 1962 - DBA 14523.]
1 November 1948
que of OLTMANS enrolled at Yale University and was admitted to
#1294 the sophomore class. He majored in international relations. He
became president of the International Relations Club at Yale, 1949-
1950 and was a student resident of the Pierson College dormitory.
While at Yale he exhibited an interest in hockey, golf, skiing,
sailing, and playing in the New Haven symphony orchestra.
[FBI FR (New Haven), 15 January 1962 - DBF 99933.]
1950 2 24
43k? According to an(official Dutch service)) OLTMANS studied
al at Yale University but was expelled for "misbehavior" (not further
explained) 5 aa
[CSCI-3/748,549 4 February 1958 (from report dated 12 February
1957 from an (official Dutch service)}] ‘
zy :
4 March 1950 A es
We A, OLTMANS resigned from Yale University, having been Los
& ol fied that his grades were not sufficient for him to obtain .
op | janie “13

SECRET


4?

sad

ray

# ov

wtih

wv

f yw?

<2 aio)

scholarship aid from Yale and due to the fact that he had insuf-
ficient financial resources to continue his college studies.

{FBI FR (New Haven), 15 January 1962 - DBF 99933.]

Before 1851

After living ‘an unknown length of time in The Netherlands

52 East India, OLTMANS went to South Africa, then to the United States,

where he studied for a time at the Institute of Foreign Relations.

2
(ONHA 21527, 14 July 1961 -(official Dutch Sdivice?)

1951 3

OLTMANS arrived in The Netherlands where he became a
student-journalist for the Algemeen Handelsblad; later moved to
the United States, after which he left for Italy as a free lance
journalist. z

(ONHA 21527, 14 July 1961 - (official Dutch Serviced}

1954

OLTMANS questioned by the Amsterdam police on the charge
of having had homosexual relations with a minor. The case was
dismissed for lack of evidence. *

{FBI Memorandum, 30 March 1962.]

August 1954 - November 1955:

Described as a translator in the Amsterdam bureau of the
United Press.

[FBI FR (New Haven), 15 January 1962 - DBF 99933.]

OLTMANS' former wife, Freida (now married to Peter BIE-
LING), claimed she had met OLTMANS while she was on vacation in
Holland. He-claimed he was employed as a reporter for the United
Press in Amsterdam. She later determined that he was a teletype
operator. She claimed that shortly after he was fired from this
job and he began to work as a free-lance writer.

[FBI FR (New York), 1 February 1962 - DBA 796,]

About September 1954 3
In about September 1954, H. J. 0. Van HAAGEN, of Amster-

dam, lodged a complaint to the effect that OLTMANS had frequently:

SECRET . a


a

; ane) ~3- a)

committed acts of lewdness with-his (complainant's) under-age
son during the summer of 1954. Inquiries into the matter failed
to reveal any evidence of any offense having been committed.

When interrogated, and also when being confronted with
each other, both the persons concerned denied any act of lewdness
having taken place between them. There was, however, evidence that
OLTMANS' conduct toward the boy had been somewhat strange, which
caused the latter to discontinue his association with OLTMANS.

: As there was no evidence of any homosexual relations
having existed between the persons concerned, the Chief Commissio-
ner of Police, Amsterdam, was of the opinion that the matter should
not incriminate OLTMANS and should not be used in deportation pro-
ceedings against him.

[FBI FR (New York), 11 March 1963 - DBA 35747.]

1956 :

As correspondent for De Nieywsgier, OLTMANS covered the
visit to Indonesia of the Soviet Chief of State, VOROSHILOV. At
several mass meetings the Russian President severly censored The
Netherlands, he pleaded for the immediate transfer of New Guinea .
to Indonesia, and posing as the great supporter of the young state, :
he in this way assured the Communist Party of a resounding election
victory not long after. As a result the relations betwéem Indonesia

and The Netherlands deteriorated considerably.

[Haagse Post, 15 April 1961.]

Early 1956 2

OLTMANS learned that SUKARNO planned to pay a visit to
Italy and he asked his papers whether they would be interested in
an exclusive interview. The response was negative. At the same.
time, however, OLTMANS contacted the Agence France Presse which en-
gaged OLTMANS, at a daily fee of some 30 guilders, to cover SUKARNO's
visit to Rome. The then 32-years old OLTMANS, contacted SUKARNO dur-
ing a reception at the Indonesian Embassy, and he managed to inter-
view SUKARNO. This interview made a great hit with the AFP which
asked OLTMANS to cover SUKARNO's trip through Italy.

In those days, OLTMANS got the firm conviction that he had

SEE



. : po
ed 4s

to fulfill a mission: a new formulated meeting of the interests of

The Netherlands and Indonesia. He wanted to go to Djakarta to make
a thorough study of the problems and after paying a number of visits
he secured financial aid (10,000 guilders) of some six Netherlands
enterprises with interests in Indonesia. Moreover, he entered into
arrangements with some papers, for which he could write articles as
their foreign correspondent.

In Djakarta, he soon met numerous Dutchmen, including
Professor P, N. DROST (who after having served in 1950 for one year
with the United Nations Human Rights Division, discontinued his ser-
vice because of unsatisfactory cooperation). During a visit which
he paid to DROST, OLTMANS discussed with him the position of the
Dutch in Indonesia, their dissatisfaction with the policy pursued
in The Hague, their desire to emerge from the Indonesian-Netherlands
impasse and in this connection also the New Guinea issue. He made
the suggestion of expressing all these desires in an address to the
States General; Professor DROST himself was enthusiastic over it,
and that very evening, he drafted an address which was stenciled
with the. cooperation of a Dutch enterprise in Djakarta, and within
some days was signed by 300 Dutch nationals.

The address, which invited Parliament to set talks with
Indonesia going again and to assume a more accommodating attitude
towards SUKARNO because otherwise sharp measures were to be expec-
ted against Dutch nationals and interests in Indonesia, was used by
the Indonesian representative to the United Nations to weaken the
official arguments: In The Netherlands press a storm was raised
against the signatories to the address and especially against the
journalist OLTMANS who was cited by DROST as the initiator. The
papers for which he acted as foreign correspondent terminated the
contracts.

[Haagse Post, 15 April 1961.]

1956 : 1

OLTMANS claimed during an open session before the Senate
Subcommittee, on 30 November 1962, that he interviewed SUKARNO in
Role, although the editor of De Telegraaf, the leading Dutch news-
paper, forbade OLTMANS to interview President SUKARNO.

SET



de

© aioe

"In order to verify my impressions, I went to Indonesia
for the first time in my life for the Nieuwe Rotterdamse Courant,
that is the Times of The Netherlands, and I stayed there until
1956 and 1957, and I made many trips throughout the country, and I
got to know President SUKARNO intimarely, and I am now writing a-
book on him, the first book ever written on SUKARNO". .

[Hearing before Senate Subcommittee, 30 November 1962, p. 42.]

May _1956 3

Inasmuch as OLTMANS had not been very successful in his
writings:in Holland, he went to Rome where he was able to wangle an
invitation to-a reception for SUKARNO at the Indonesian Embassy. He
then contacted the representative of a leading French newspaper and
offered to do a story on SUKARNO for that newspaper. This offer
was accepted, and OLTMANS subsequently attended the reception for
SUKARNO, where he presented SUKARNO with’ a silver ash tray. Appar-
ently through this meeting and subsequent meetings SUKARNO permitted
him to travel with the press entourage from Indonesia which was tra-
veling with SUKARNO. He later became the only Western newspaperman
who traveled with the SUKARNO party as it made its way around Europe’,
on state visits and this travel included a visit to Yugoslavia. ° He
was unable to gotto the USSR as he was unable to obtain a visa and
to get a seat on the airplane. Frieda BIELING stated that despite the
cordiality of Indonesian newspapermen toward OLTMANS there was a
certain amount of jealousy exhibited by these newsmen because of
OLTMANS' close personal contact with SUKARNO.

(FBI FR (New York), 1 February 1962 - DBA 796.]

OLTMANS subsequently returned to Holland where he started
to contact various Dutch industrial corporations whose holdings in
Indonesia had been seized or were in jeopardy of being seized by the
Indonesian Government. He was able to convince some of these indus-
trialists, particularly a Mr. REINKENS, the President of Unilever,
that because of his close relationship with SUKARNO he would be able
to arbitrate between the industrial empires and the Indonesian
Government for adequate compensation for their properties. In addi-
tion, he had also made arrangements with the Amsterdam newspaper

Elsevier to furnish them with several articles concerning Indonesia

SESRET


aug

we 2?

~

ae OG

and, according to Mrs. BIELING, did have two or three articles
published from Indonesia.

[Ibid.]

December 1956
OLTMANS went to Indonesia. Shortly after his arrival
there, he published the so-called "appeal of Netherlanders in

Indonesia to The Netherlands States General" to reconsider its a

we

attitude on Netherlands New Guinea. The signatures under this
appeal were collected through the intermediary of the Nieuwsgier,
a Dutch language newspaper now, according to sourc e, completely
in Indonesian hands and assumed to be indirectly controlled by
the Indonesian Government.

[CSCI-3/748, 549 4 February 1958 (from a report dated 12 February
1957 from a(Dutch cer source}, ]

February 1957 : :

OLTMANS' efforts to bring about some type of vrapproche-
ment between the industrialists and the Indonesian Government ap-
parently failed and in February 1957, at which time Frieda BIELING
was in the United States, she received a telegram stating he was
coming to the United Nations to do press work for the Indonesian
Government. At the time he arrived, the whole question of Dutch
control of New Guinea was being brought before’the United Nations
and she presumed that this was the reason for his arrival in the
United States. '

[FBI FR (New York), 1 February 1962 - DBA 796.)

9 February 1957 fi

Notice from Immigration and Naturalization Service
announcing LT“ANS' arrival in Honolulu. The reasontgiven for
this visit was to attend the United Nations General Assembly
(about four weeks).

[Enclosure to CSCI-3/775,788.] 1

19 February 1957 p

Aue aX OLTMANS married Frieda WESTERMAN.
fe yo According to her, her marriage to OLTMANS was not a normal
py

SECRET

G


relationship, e.g., he was constantly traveling and had left the
United States less than a month after their marriage. On theday
of their marriage, ten minutes after the ceremony, he had left her
and she was walking through Greenwich Village in New York City by
herself.

At one time her father had determined that OLTNANS had a
police record for molesting young boys in Amsterdam, Holland, and
that he had been under psychiatric care with his uncle, a well-known
Dutch psychiatrist, for homosexuality. Subsequently, by chancé, she
read a diary which he maintained, which gave a detailed account of
his daily life, in addition to his homosexual activities; she stated
that this convinced her that she must obtain a divorce.

[FBI FR (New York), 1 February 1962 - DBA 796.)

September 1957 i
ay\ September 1987

a OLTMANS traveled to The Netherlands. After paying a

number of visits to prominent Dutch politicians and industrialists,

during which he pleaded for talks on Irian (Netherlands New Guinea)

between the two countries, he rented a reception hall in the Hotel

de Witteberg, and organized a meeting of some well-known members of

Parliament, of the Council of State, industrialists, and financiers. G
This meeting actually took place on 16 October 1957. OLT-

MANS opened the meeting and warned about an impending Irian action

unless early talks were initiated with the Indonesians. At the con-

clusion of the meeting OLTMANS received 1500 guilders to cover expen-

ses (which actually amounted to 900 guilders).

[Haagse Post, 15 April 1961.]
17 April 1958 zy:

a9 An @rticial Dutch) source stated that according to press

ay

a \% communications dated 17 April 1958, OLTMANS wrongly posed as a
correspondent of the Wall Street Journal while in Djakarta.

[CSCI-3/767,597 18 October 1961 to I§NS.]

10 June 1958 H
Ap? ny OLTMANS was readmitted to the United States as a permanent
ee resident. He had been issued an M-1 visa and was carrying a Dutch

Passport no. 2016214 issued by the Diplomatic Representative in

aw SLORET



aa ab) -8-

Djakarta, Indonesia. He claimed to be a non-quota immigrant as
the husband of Josephine A, F, OLTMANS, a United States citizen.

(FBI FR (New York), 29 June 1962 - DBA 14525:]

) Summer of 1958 :
PY
wr WY

* 1 taetwita Airport, but he was subsequently fired from this job.

OLTMANS worked in a book store at the old terminal at

(FBI FR (New York), 1 February 1962 - DBA 796.] . .
September 1958 A
a OLTMANS began lecturing on political affairs for Colston
& See
\ Leigh.
* g!

[FBI FR (New York), 1 February 1962 - DBA 796.)

1959 3
2y1¥ According to an article appearing in Haagse Post on 15

#\ April 1961 (an independent weekend publication with a nationwide |
readership) , "Leading figures of Netherlands trade and industry
had a secret arrangement with President SUKARNO two years ago in
Rome to talk with him about Netherlands assets in Indonesia. How-
ever, they waited in vain in the Italian capital for several weeks; 7
in spite of a clear arrangement made via a Dutch journalist, SUKARNO
failed to turn up.

"His name is only known to few in The Netherlands - the
young Dutch reporter who, an intimate friend of SUKARNO, for five
long years has been trying to lay contacts between the Indonesian
Chief of State, Netherlands captains of industry. and Netherlands
politicians - the same man who currently is active in the United
States and in the lobbies of the United Nations and is the trouble-
some opposite number of (Foreign) Minister LUNS: it is the 35-year
old Willem L. OLTMANS, who stands recorded with Domestic Security
Service as an activist opposing Dutch interests, but who himself
emphatically says ‘Whatever I do I am doing in the interest of The
Netherlands and international peace'," H
(Haagse Post, 15 April 1961; reported in American. Embassy airgran
no. G-474, from The Hague, 21 April 1961.]

"ey 1959 3
WR Because of OLTMANS' wife's employment with KLM, she was en-

ane

* SECRET


a
Ave
oR

ae yo

-9- a)

titled to a free airplane flight, as was her husband, to any point

on the KLM system and so he decided to meet SUKARNO in Istanbul
while he was on his way to Copenhagen. She said that she joined
her husband in Amsterdam when the SUKARNO party arrived there and
then they subsequently went on to Copenhagen.

[FBI FR( New York), 1. February 1962 - DBA 796.]

19 May:1959
"According to an FBI source, OLTMANS had formerly been

carried as a United Nations correspondent to the Amsterdam news-

paper Vrij Nederland; however, he has not been accredited since

19 May 1959,
[FBI FR (New York), 1 February 1962 - DBA 796.)

i Febryary 1960 H

OLTMANS spoke before the Women's Club in Sewickly, Penn-
sylvania, in a speech entitled "Let's Stop Losing Friends Abroad".
His services in making this speech were obtained through a New York
booking agent, Colston Leigh. He made, according to this source,
many stining remarks regarding the United States and expressed opi-
nions of a definite anti-Netherlands nature. He referred to the f
Netherlands Government as stupid and stated The Netherlands should
have given New Guinea to Indonesia. He mentioned that the Netherlands
Government considers him a traitor. It was observed by this source
that OLTMANS is accepted in th e well-to-do circles and that listen-
ers are impressed by him. Source commented that although OLTMANS
calls himself anti-communist, his views are at best those of @ great
admirer of communism and what the communist system represents. Many
of those with whom he comes in contact dounat recognize his true sym-
pathies.

(FBI FR (Pietsburgh), 14 March 1960 - DBF 45391.)

wwe 1960 t 3 ;

a

ay

an OLTMANS in the Congo. t

[ONHW 13150, 26 April 1961.]

January 1960 :

ax® OLTMANS states (during an executive session, 16 August

SEGRET


-10-

1962) "My first visit (to Cuba) was abrief one and I did not

write about it. I made a statement to Revolucion and El Mundo,
two Havana newspapers, in which I said that it seemed to me of
primary importance that relations between Washington and Havana
remained fluent [sic - fluid ?] and that the U. S. Government
should work together with CASTRO. I likened Fidel CASTRO to
President SUKARNO of Indonesia. I drew a parallel and called both
leaders the fathers of their countries. I do know SUKARNO vather
intimately well and I saw clear similarities, at that time, in their
political philosophies. I maintained that I believed Cuba should .
associate with the Afro-Asian bloc, as foreign Minister Raul ROA's
visits to Cairo. and Belgrade at the time seemed to suggest. That
same year President SUKARNO went on a state visit to Havana".

(Hearing before the Senate Subcommittee, 30 November 1962, p. 34.]
» 30 June 1960 H

BE — EE
cy

&. Sy Frieda BIELING stated she and her husband were separated
\?
* in March. 1960. She obtained a Mexican divorce on 30 June 1960.
(FBI FR (New York), 1 February 1962 - DBA 796.]
August_and September 1960 :
Que 3 OLTMANS traveled to Leopoldville and Brazzaville as a

\
a \> journalist with Vrij Nederland. He was strongly pro-LUMUMBA in

his comments, and criticized the French interference in the Congo's

politics. 24
(CSCI-3/767,597 18 October 1961 to I§NS; source: (Official Dutch
Service.
9 September 1960 :
due OLTMANS left Brazzaville for Rome. oY
#12" (esct-3/767,597 18 October 1961 to T@NS; source: (ofeicial Dutch

Service. })

Latter Part of 1960 H
a OLTMANS visited Cuba as a guest of Ambassador BISBE
4
x V2’ (Cuban Ambassador to the United Nations).

(Hearing before Senate Subcommittee, 30 November 1962, p. 44.]

5 Sarno ecu bo)

cc



3 Silo

Lat2 1969 or Farly 1961

\sO OLTHANS states (during an executive session on 14

>

August 1962) that "following my second journey to Cuba, as

reported in the Republican of Pottsville, Pennsylvania, I

have said, ‘It takes ne a lone time before IT call anyone a
communist, for we too often call foreign leaders ccmmunists,
but, under Fidel CAST20, Guha is going communist’."

(Hearing hefore a Senate Subcommittee, 30 November.1962,. py 35.].

19 - 31 December 1969

a OLIMANS in Bonn, Germany, as a correspondent of the
Vrij Nederland, to inform himself of the relations between
Germany and the USSR, of the German position on NATO and of
the question concerning the reunification of the two parts
of Germany. " according to source, OLTMANS calls himself anti-
communist; however, he is greatly interested in the communist
countries in Asia ané Europe and throughout the world.
[CSCI-3/767,597 . 18 October 1961 to IANS: from (@fficial
Dutch Service. )24

13 December 1962
\%\ OLTMANS wrote in the Providence Journal (R. I. ?) that
xi? kids on the street fin Havana] wave communist Chinese flags
and wear hammer and sickle insignas’. . . teenage boys stroll
around carrying revolvers and Czech-made weapons . .. . CASTRO
has ordered the loyal Fidelistas to renort defeatists to the
police . . . what a difference the Cuba today of what I saw a
year ago. . . today people live in fear they thought had gone
"

forever with the ouster of the dictator BATISTA. . .

[Hearing before a Senut2 Subcanmittee, 39 November 1962, p. 31.}

1 January 1951 z
wer ALTMANS states (during an executive session on 16 Au-
# aust 1952) that "I revorted in the same paner [Providence
Jourrai), "These cooneratives are only a hairbreadth from the
Chines# commune systes, And the hairhreadth may well disapvear
when CASTPO bevins to feel the pinch of the I. S. emhargo on‘his

Sueur crop. . . CASTRO has made no hones about the fact that he

‘bl SEGRET


oh vea®?

a rr?

unl

€
means to foment revolt throughout Latin America. . .' ."

(Hearing before a Senate Subcommittee, 30 November 1962,

pp. 34-35.)

1961 eG

The(Station in The Hague learned from the American
Consulate's fileson OLTMANS that he is almost certainly homo-
sexual and in 1961 attempted to bring to the United States,
at his own expense, a homosexual friend named Alhert HILVER-
DINK, born on 11 May 1931 in Batavia, Java, dancer, Dutch
Passport no. D 966189; address: Xwintheulstraat 4, Amsterdam.
(xed 27928, 14 February 1964.]

1961 : 3

OLTMANS met willem VERRIPS after H. Vander JAGT, Chief
of the Passenger Department, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, New York
City, had requested OLTMANS meet with VERRIPS in New York City.
OLTMANS ‘understood that Vander JAGT had made this request in
receipt of a cable from the director of the airlines in Holland.
OLTMANS met VERRIPS in the Roosevelt Hotel, New York City. They
had a discussion of Indonesia and VERRIPS appeared to be attem- .
pting to get in touch with Indonesian officials for Dutch in-
terests. OLTMANS advised that he learned from Vander JAGT, at
a later date, that VERRIPS-had- stated that-OZTMANS could be
disposed of by the payment of $500 to a certain individual in
Harlem, who could kill OLTMANS with a truck. OLTMANS advised
this threat was published in Holland in articles written by
OLTMANS and that he lost contact with VERRIPS for some time due
to the publication of this matter.
[FBI Memorandum (New York), 10 December 1964 - DBA 94159.]

January 31 October 1961 :

A review of lists published by the United States MisSion
to the United Nations, from January to 31 October 1961, entitled
"List of Non-U.S. Nationals Accredited aclcerrespendenes and
Representatives of Infommation Media by the United Nations" fails

to reveal the name of OLTMANS as being an accredited correspon-

SECRET


x \

ae

-13- a)

dent to the United Nations.
[FBI FR (New York), 24 November 1961 - DBF 96245.]

8 April 1961 3
Headquarters reports to the Federal Bureau of Investi-

ation that according to a fairly reliable sourcé, OLTMANS
plans to visit East Germany, Poland, Czechoslovakia, and Hun-
gary during May, June, and July 1961. OLTMANS will be "un-
attached" and "Unsponsoréd", travelling alone and without any
specific prearranged itinerary. ,

His reputation at the United Nations leaves many ques-~
tions unanswered. He is socially ostracized by the Dutch de-
Legation and fellow Dutch newsmen at the United Nations for
his openly pro-Indonesian public stand in the question of
Dutch Guiness.

He is not permanently accredited to the United Nations.
Ostensibly he works for an obscure Dutch monthly magazine but
fellow Dutch correspondents say they have yet to see one story
written by OLTMANS in it.

When he applied some time ago for membership in the
United Nations correspondents Association, he could not pro-
duce a single clipping to demonstrate his journalistic activi-
tees. 8. . -

OLTMANS claims he writes also for a syndicate in the
United States, the identity of which is unknown. His main in-
come ee be derived from public lectures in the United
States on international politics, especially matters touching
on Asia in general and Indonesia sepcifically. He claims he.
grew up in Indonesia and therefore knows the conditions there.

Despite the fact that his material does not seem to be
printed anywhere, OLTMANS travels extensively. He shuttles be-
tween Europe and the United States quite regularly (at least
once a year), was in the Congo last year,, recently returned
from Cuba and now is planning a trip to Eastern Europe. Those
knowing his personal and financial status do not believe that
he could pay for all this even if his stories were selling.

OLTMANS is constantly seen with what a westerm source

SESRET


-14-

would call "the wrong crowd". He has excellent contacts with
all the communist-dominated countries, including Cuba. He is
on intimate terms with elements like the Guineans, Indonesians,
Egyptians, etc.

[CSCI-3/764,797 18 April 1961.]

1s April 1961 (date of article .

ae a "What is activating Willem OLTNANS whose spirit made
itself felt during the last few days when LUNS had talks in
Washington? Is he ‘an agent of SUKARNO?'

"The fact that he is continually hard up for cash is
an: argument against this assumption. When he is in The Nether-
lands he is in the habit of getting free rides from city to
city. His many air trips were made possible by the fact that
he is married to a ground stewardess of an American aviation
company and consequently can travel virtually free of charge,
In recent years he is making his living by means of lectures
throughout the United States in behalf of the "lecture office
Colston Leigh", and in this manner strongly influences Ameri-
can public opinion with regard to New. Guinea. He himself says
‘Whatever I do, write or say - my only objective is to see
Dutch prestige restored in Indonesia’. But his presence, his
knowledge of Indonesian politics and politicians, his connec-
tions with Dutch trade and industry cannot be argued away. No
less than the fact that when LUNS carried on talks in Washington,
Kennedy appeared to be very well informed about the divergent
views of a number of Dutch politicians, financiers, and indus-
trialists, thanks to the reports which his special adviser

W. N. ROSTOW had received from OLTMANS."

Haagse Post, 15 April 1961.]
19 April 1961 A .

yar The American Embassy in The Hague forwarded information

a

to the Department Stating that p

"1. Dutch press has noted alleged April 9 Statement of
Dutch journalist Willem OLTMANS in St. Joseph, Michigan, that
adviser to President Kennedy had told him that U.S. Seventh

SECRET


gQ ¢
w a>
Pa

- 15 - “&

Fleet might become involved in Dutch-Indo dispute over New

Guinea... Press also subsequently noted White House denial of
any such statement to OLTMANS.

WG Regarding foregoing Department may be interested
to know that OLTMANS, a contributor to Dutch left-wing weekly
Vrij Nederland, frequently lectures in US to various clpb au-
diences, etc. In reputable Dutch political and press circles
OLTMANS is generally viewed with disfavor because of his alle-
ged "loose handling' of the truth. Embassy understands that
the Dutch Foreign Office had considerable record reflecting
unfavorably ‘on OLTMANS' general behavior. It is known that
OLTMANS considers himself a warm and close personal friend
of SUKARNO ‘(some Say this is or was more than Platonic) and
that he hold view that New Guinea should be ceded to Indonesia.
OLTMANS told reporting officer in May 1960 that he had recently
seeh SUKARNO in Vienna and that he, OLTMANS, was convinced that
hostilities regarding Karel Doorman visit were going to happen
and (presumably for this reason) US should give full support
to Indo policy re New Guinea. If one is to believe a11 un- ~
favorable remarks and aspersions one may hear about OLTMANS in
Netherlands, it may well be that he is actually in pay of SUKAR-
NO. If this true and if OLTMANS is as devious as pictured, it
is not impossible that his account of alleged White House state-
ment about possible US military involvement in New Guinea dispute
was deliberately made in order to produce expected denial. A
US denial of such a Statement would on the balance appear help-
ful Indonesian cause as OLTMANS sees it. Embassy assumes OLTMANS
will attempt to see SUKARNO in US."
(Airgram no. G-462, 19 April 1961, from American Embassy, The
Hague.]

14 September 1961 3

OLTMANS addressed a letter to J. W. TWINAM, U. s Con-
sulate General, Ansterdan, in which he stated he was “writing
to you on behalf of Mr, Albert F, HILVERDINK, Jr., of Kwintheul-
Straat 4, Amsterdam whom I have invited to ‘visit the United

States as my personal guest." Paid for Passage on the S. Ss.

SECRET


e SiGe of

Rotterdam leaving Rotterdam on 10 October 1961.
{Attachment B, ONHA 27828.]

14 September 1961
Qu’ an OLTMANS filed an apllication for a waiver of passport

at ye and visa indicating that he went to East Berlin and Yugoslavia
for Broadcasting Features, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, making a
series of bwoadcasts, and he was unaware of needing a visa be-.___
fore entering those territories. His waiver was granted on
14 September 1961.
(FBI FR. (new York), 29 June 1962 - DBA 14523.]

14 September 1961 :

yor? OLTMANS. admitted to the United States at New York.
+ (FBI FR (Washington), 30 January 1962 - DBA 762.]

20 September 1961 2
caolend ’ 3 By letter dated 20 September 1961, directed to the FBI,

Assistant Attorney General J. Walter YEAGLEY, of the Internal
Security Division, advised that OLTMANS was reportedly serving
as a paid lobbyist and public relations man for President .
SUKARNO of Indonesia, in the United Nations. If it could be
established that OLTMANS was acting as a paid relations man for
SUKARNO, an the United States, he would be required to register

. under the Foreign Agents Registration Act, unless his activities
in this connection are confined to the United Nations.
(FBI FR (New York), 24 November 1961 - DBF 96245.]

16 November 1961 2

at An FBI source advised on 16 November 1961 that the
ar occupant of apartment 1F (118-09 83rd Avenue, Kew Gardens,

New York), Willem OLTMANS, is apparently employed in some
capacity with the United Nations. According to the informant,
OLTMANS constantly makes trips in and aroynd the United States
and overseas. He is separated or divorced from his wife, who
left him about a year and a half ago. The reason for departure,
according to rumor, is that "he is not aman", Informant stated

he was unaware as to whether OLTMANS was a homosexual or impo-

tent, but did state OLTMANS currently lives with a male Filipino

7 SERRET



Otho

and the impression is that his wife's depature was due to
the former reason rather than the latter.

{FBI FR (New York), 24 Novemher 1961 - DBF 96246.)

£ #22 Novenber 1961 H

wy FBI's source advised that OLTMANS is believed to enjoy
close, personal relationships with leading Indonesian persona-
lities, including Foreign Minister SUBANDRIO.
[FBI FR (New York), 1 February 1962 - DBA 796.]

28 December 1961 (date of information):

Aw Ay ““OLTMANS described as a pro-Indonesian Dutchman who is a

x i correspondent and lecturer and a very good friend of Moekarto
NOTOWIDIGDO, former Indonesian Ambassador to the United States.
OLTMANS, according to the informant, has visited the Indonesian
Embassy four or five times in the last four years. The most re-
cent visit being around 1 December 1961. On this occasion
OLTMANS saw the present Indonesian Ambassador Zairin ZAIN and
members of the Press Department of the Embassy.

(FBI FR (Washington, D. C.), 30 January 1962 - DBA 762.]

11 January 1962 2

gue FBI received a list of lectures published by W. Colston
B,\" .
i#.Y Leigh, Inc., $21 Sth Avenue, New York. FBI's informant was of
the opinion. that the list is a list of lectures given by OLTMANS

during 1961.
[FBI FR (Washington, D. C.), 30 January 1962 - DBA 762.]

22 January 1962 2
dur we Frieda BIELING described her former husband as being pro-
ax Indonesia. While outwardly giving the appearance of being anti-

communist, he takes every opportunity possible to criticize the
United States and the Western Allies. She stated that she is con-
vinced that her husband 4s at least an intellectual communist
since in reviewing some of his personal ehecrah he indicates
that communism is the economic system of the future and the
sooner it is adopted by all nations the better for the world.

(FBI FR (New York), 1 February 1962 - DBA 796.]


. a) - 18 - C

. «

15 February 1962 H

DRS OLTMANS spoke at the convocation in the movie audito-
mle rium at Ripon College at 9 a.m. on the subject of "Cuba,
Castro, and Communism", Different Speakers are invited to
these student convocations to present their views. OLTMANS'
appearance was arranged for by the Student Senate of which
Larry HAMILTON is a member. :

Apparently OLTMANS talked very little on his subject
matter, speaking mostly in generalities and gave no indica-
tion that he favored Russia or communism.

(FBI FR (New. York), 29 June 1962 - DBA 14523.)

21 February 1962
en? OLIMANS wrote to the Under Secretary of State to whom

+ he stated that he had visited Cuba in 1959 and 1960 and upon
his return to the United States had written articles for the
United States Press on Cuba which articles were handled through
World Wide Press, Inc., 333 East 46th Street, New York City.
He also indicated that he has lectured on Cuba throughout the
United States. on his return from Cuba he had a breakfast .
meeting with Senator Wayne MORSE arranged for by the United
States: Permanent Mission to the United Nations. OLTMANS also
indicated his intention to go to Cuba for a Stay of about four
weeks. He noted that he had already written to Senator MORSE
that he intends to report to him when he returns from Cuba.
FBI FR (New York), 9 May 1962 - DBA 8998.)

27 February 1962 2

x av OLTMANS contacted Mikhail POLONIK, First Secretary and -_
Press Officer at the USSR Mission to the United Nations. OLTMANS
indiaated. to POLONIK that on 15 February 1962 he spoke at a co-
educational college, Ripon College, in Ripon, Wisconsin. While
there he determined that head of the Political Science Depart- ;
ment, Professor William FLEMING, indicated thie he taught the
Students that all America has to do is Sever diplomatic relations
with the Soviet Union. OLTMANS told POLONIK that during his one

hour lecture, he took this view and various other views apart



ss) we. OF

and openly challenged the professor. He stated that he was en-

thusiastically greeted when he questioned the students as to why
they did not invite a Russian diplomat or journalist to speak
with” them; he agreed to try and establish a contact for them
with the USSR Government. He told POLONIK that if his Delegation
desired to contact someone at Ripon, they should contact Larry
HAMILTON, the Editor-in-Chief of the college newspaper, Ripon

College Days.
[FBI FR (New York), 10 April 1962 - DBA 6832.]

27 March 1962 H
& An FBI source advised that during a conversation with
dvRie OLTMANS, the latter indicated his intention to go to Cuba
Y

a shortly and to attempt to arrange for a personal interview
with Fidel CASTRO. During the course of the conversation,
OLTMANS mentioned that he was no longer living with his wife,
since they had separated because she had become pregnant by
another man. He also indicated that she had taken some money
from hin. :
[FBI FR (New York), 10 April 1962 - DBA 6832.] .

2 April 1962 2
& OLTMANS filed Application by Permanent Resident for

WR AS Permission to Travel to Cuba. OLTMANS stated his intention
to travel to Cuba on 14 April 1962 and return to the United
States before 30 April 1962. He stated his reason for travel
to Cuba was to make a "survey of the situation".
His application was refused on 3 April 1962 but later
granted on 11 April 1962,
{FBI FR (New York), 9 May 1962 - DBA 8998.]

3 April 1962 2
An FBI source advised he had learned that the United
a 137 \
Nations Radio had granted correspondent accreditation to OLT-
MANS on the basis of a letter OLTMANS had submitted from "Syn-
dicated Broadcasting Features, Inc., 221 North La Salle Street,
Chicago, Illinois". Over a period of months, OLTMANS had requested

and received UN studio recording facilities to tape a series

SECRET


4 yor”

“
Qk 6?

& ae

of short topical features in English which he said were for
his employers. The FBI source advised that his source began
receiving reports expressing surprise and shock at the content
of OLTMANS' recordings which were violently anti-American and
usually on a straight communist line.

The sourcé. also noted that Syndicated Broadcasting
Features, Inc., was unknown to legitimate broadcasters in the
Chicago area. A further check of OLTMANS' accreditation was
made. throygh the Dutch Delegation at the United Nations; the
latter declared that OLTMANS was persona non grata as far as
they were concerned and, in fact, they considered him "an
agent of a’ foreign power",

(FBI FR (New. York), 25 May 1962 - DBA 10778.]

April - May 1962 A

OLTMANS' third visit to Cuba. OLTMANS stated (during
an executive session on 16 August 1962, cited during an open
session on 30 November 1962) that "I had written anarticle
and sent. to Look magazine, but it was turned down. I filed six
articles with World Wide Press, as I had done after my second
voyage, but Editor Arthur Fletcher found them unacceptable, and
commented. he considered them too much an apology for the Castro
regime".

(Hearing before a Senate Subcommittee, 30 November 1962, p. 37.]

4 April 1962 A

Date of report of an investigation conducted on OLTMANS
by the Immigration § Naturalization Service. According to this
Teport "Subject's former spouse, Frieda BIELING, and her present
husband, Peter BIELING, advised that SUBJECT is a homosexual.
Peter BIELING executed an affidavit describing a homosexual act
allegedly committed by the SUBJECT, the details of which BIELING
read in the SUBJECT's diary. '

{Attachment C, ONHA 27828, 14 February 1962.)

9 April 1962 i

A confidential informant advised the FBI that on:9

April 1962 the Cuban Mission to the United Nations notified

SECRET


oo Bale

the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Relations in Havana that OLTMANS
had been invited to visit Cuba by the Institute Cubano por Amis-
tad_del Pueblo (Cuban Institute of Friendship for the People)
at the suggestion of Ambassador BISBE. It was stated that OLT-
MANS had requested that he be furnished transportation and lod-
gings in connection with this trip and that he was to arrive in
Havana on 16 April 1962 from Miami on KLM flight no. 978.

[FBI Report, 10 April 1962 - DBA 6373.]

10 April. - 22 May 1962 A

During this period, an FBI source in a position to be

en) aware of certain activities at the. Indonesian Consulate and
the Mission to the United Nations, both in New York City, ad-
vised he was unable to furnish any information regarding OLT-
MANS having anything to do with individuals employed by either
of these two establishments.
[FBI FR (New York) ,25 May 1962 - DBA 10778.]
16 April 1962 :
2! OLTMANS left for Cuba from Miami.
¢ Md [FBI FR (New York), 10 September 1962 - DBA 22056.]
22 May 1962 6
fe An FBI source advised that he had never heard of OLTMANS
ope "1 having any connection with the Indonesian Government in any ca-
x V4 pacity whatsoever.
[FBI FR (New York), 25 May 1962 - DBA 10778.]
23 May - 26 June 1962 H
Ret During this period, an FBI source advised that he was
Bare® unable to furnish any information regarding OLTMANS having any-
6 thing. to do with individuals employed by either the Indonesian
Consulate in New York City or by the Indonesian Mission to the.
United Nations. \
(FBI FR (New York), 29 June 1962 - DBA 14523.)
14 June 1962
OLTMANS arrived in New York from Holland.
ak 2 »
y re) (FBI FR )New York), 10 September 1962 - DBA 22056.]

SECEST


= Yc oa)

€

. 26 June 1962 2
A ok Mr. Ladd I, JOHNSON, Secretary of the American-Indo-
ae nesian Chamber of Commerce, 120 Wall Street, Room 2136, des-
cribed OLTMANS as not being a very intelligence individual;
however, he characterized him as one who is cttnning and shrewd.
He delcared that OLTMANS is quite an opportunist. He stated
that there is not much depth to OLTMANS. He has heard OLTNANS
lecture on several occasions and he classified him as a poor
lecturer. He advised that OLTMANS vacillates from his announced
subject, houncing from one topic to another so that upon com-
pletion of the lecture the only thing an individual can ask him-
self'is "What did he say?"
{FBI FR (New York), 29 June 1962 - DBA 14523.]

£& 27 June 1962 3
Av? gh OLTMANS addressed a gathering of 200 in the Wisconsin
#\ Union. -His lecture was sponsored by the Union Forum Committee.
A local newspaper in Madison, Wisconsin, carried an article
on 28 June 1962, entitled "Dutch Writer Rips US Smugness".
This article was written by Michel KIRKHORN of the Capital
Times staff. Included among the comments attributed to OLTMANS
are the following:
"Cuba: The junk your press feeds you
about Cuba is so fantastic that you
don't understand anything about Cuba
or Castro.
"We will allow Cubans to starve to
death from our blockade in the name
of Christianity, while we argue whether.

eu not school children should pray at’. ||
a.m. 5

"Is Khrushchev a card-carrying Com-

munist? I don't know; lets say he

is. Well, he is able to visit the

White House. Why won'y you talk .
to Castro?

"Castro has said that he follows the
Marxist philosophy, but there is a
distinct difference between accep-
ting Marx and being a Communist. ;:

“If we can't get facts and figures
straight 90 miles from the coast of
the United States, then what of
Viet Nam?

"Indonesia: The U.S. should not sup-
port Dutch attempts to keep colonies

SECRET


- 23% @.. Q

there. Sukarno is a great leader who
has instituted a 'guided' democracy."

[FBI FR (New York), 10 September 1962 - DBA 22056.]

7 19 July 1962 Hi
wr an OLTMANS told the Cuban Ambassador Mario GARCIA
- Nd Inchaustegui ‘that he had been in the office of Senator Wayne
MORSE on 19 July 192 and that he expected to meet again with
MORSE during the coming week.
[FBI FR (New York), 10 September 1962 - DBA 22056.]

21 July 1962 cI

& OLTMANS in contact with the Cuban Ambassador to the

Re SN 7
ve United Nations, Mario GARCIA Inchaustegui, reagrding the

testimony in Washington of Carlos TODD. OLTMANS stated he
was going to request to appear at the Senate Hearing in order
to make a statement.

[FBI FR (New York), 10 September 1962 - DBA 22056.]

24 July 1962 A
Ae Senate Subcommittee sent. a letter to OLTMANS. (The

pre Subcommittee notified all of those whose names appeared in
Carlos TODD's testimony before the Subcommittee on 19 July
1962.)

“On July 19, 1962, the Senate Internal Security |
Subcommittee received testimony from Carlos TODD,
editor of the Cuban Information Service of Coral
Gables, Fla., regarding alleged attempts to influence
the American press in behalf of the Castro Government
of Cuba.

"In view of the fact that your name was mentioned
in this testimony, we wish to offer you the opportunity
to read the testimony and present your viewpoint at a
subsequent hearing.

“Arrangements for reading the testimony can be
made through Mr. J. G. SOURWINE, Chief Counsel, or
Alan D. McARTHURm Associate Counsel, Senate Internal
Security Subcommittee, Room 3224, New Senate Building,
Washington, CApital 4-3121, extension 6241.

"Very truly yours,
/s/ Alan D. McARTHUR, Associa-
te Counsel.

[Hearing before a Senate Subcommittee, 30 November 1962,

1
pp. 29-30.)

Latter Part of July and First Part of August 1962:
as The Cuban Permanent Mission to the United Nations (CPMUN)

made information available to Dr. ROA, Cuban Minister of Foreign

SECRET


Pert os

3

Relations, that in the United States the Senate Subcommittee

on Suversive Activities is very partial in

that its members

give opportunity only to anti-Castro correspondents to testify,

while pro-Castro correspondents, such as OLTMANS, have not been

given the opportunity to be heard. The CPMUN has discussed

this matter with OLTMANS, and during the latter Part of July

and the first Part of August 1962, OLTMANS

has been in contact

with Senator Wayne MORSE and Senator Kenneth B. KEATING and has

2

£
of
wR!

\

3

4?

57

kept the CPMUN advised as to the results of these interviews.

[FBI FR (New York), 10 September 1962 - DBA 22056.)

39 July 1962 H

The- Washington Star carried an article entitled, "Uni-

ted States Writers Accused of Castro Leanings". This article

States that Carlos TODD, a refugee Cuban newsman told a Senate

Committee that! some reporters appear to slant their material
in favor of Fidel CASTRO's dictatorship. Mentioned by TODD

Was OLTMANS of Radio Station WGBS in Miami.
(FBI FR (New York), 11 March 1963 - DBA 357

6 August 1962 A

An I&NS reported dated 6 August 196

47,]

2 reflects that

OLTMANS continued to be listed as the representative of Vrij

Mederland as of January 1962. “This report
the United States Mission to the United Nat
listed OLTMANS as a non-United States natio:
correspondent by the United Nations for Pre:
on their 20 February 1962 list.

further showed that
ions in New York
mal accredited as a

ss Audio News Service

[FBI FR (New York), 10 September 1962 - DBA 22056.)

9 August 1962 :
eee ees

7 According to OLTMANS' prepared stat.

1962, he claimed that on 9 August, "a week
appearance here, a report was published in
Paper that the Government of the United Sta
evict me from the country on the basis of '
committed by me as a foreigner within the bi
United States. The article implied that 1

SECRET

ement, 30 November
prior to my first

a leading Dutch news-
tes was about to
un-American activities!
oundaries of the

had been called to


- 25 - a)

Washington as a first step of being thrown out of the country.
As a permanent member of the International Federation of Jour-
nalists, as a member of the Netherlands Federation of Journa-
lists, as an accredited correspondent for eight Dutch daily
newspapers and a leading Asian Magazine to this country, I
kindly urge the committee to Please inform me whether it is
correct to state that I came of my own free will to testify
here, at my own initiative, and that at no time the committee
considered such grave demarches against me as to order me out
of the country for having committed “un-American” activities.
In view of the serious professional consequences this above-
mentioned report might have for the uninterrupted continuation
of my Journalistic work, I would be deeply gratified to the
committee if it would refute the above-mentioned report.
(Hearing before Senate Suncommittee, 30 November 1962, pp.
31-32.]

16 August 1962

= ay According to OLTMANS' prepared statement (given before

A Vv the Senate Subcommittee on 30 November 1962), he appeared at
his own request at an executive session of the SSC to take
issue with Mr. TODD's allegations and supplied the committee
"during my testimony with numerous quotations from statements *
and articles by me on the emergence of the People's Republic
of Cuba." OLTMANS asked Senator KEATING to reschedule a hearing
for the reason that Mr. TODD voiced his criticism in public, and
it seemed only fair to defend oneself also in public".

OLTMANS categorically denied Mr. TODD's serious allega-
tions "that I, as a Dutch journalist at any time would have
acted as an apologist for international communism",

[Hearing before Senate Subcommittee, 30 November 1962, pp. 31,
35.) ‘

& 4 September 1962 z a
—asetamer i962

QuR aq X\ OLTMANS claims to have written an autobiography [sic]
oa \ of SUKARNO which he himself will publish. OLTMANS said he had

received about $3,000 from his mother, a resident of Holland,

SECRET


Ho?

wx?

a) or)

and that this money will be used to publish the book.

An FBI source claimed to be suspicious of OLTMANS' source
of funds, since none of his writings have been published, and |
since his public speaking tours only take him before low-paying
women's clubs.

(FBI FR(New York), 10 September 1962 - DBA 22056.]

4 October 1962

A source familiar with certain diplomatic operations of
the Cuban Government advised that during the first part of Octo-
ber, 1962, the Cuban Permanent Mission to the United Nations,
made available to Dr. Raul ROA Garcia, Minister of Foreign Rela-
tions, certain information concerning Willem. L. OLTMANS.

The Cuban Permanent Mission advised that OLTMANS had been
in Cuba recently and has written excellent arti¢les for publica-
tion in the United States, which articles portray the truth about
the Cuban Revolution. The CPMUN further advised that OLTMANS is
favorably inclined towards the Cuban Revolutionary Government and
its objectives and that his favorable attitude no doubt has been
stimulated by the courtesies which have been extended to him
while on official visit to Cuba.

The CPMUN further pointed out that OLTMANS has numerous
contacts in the United States Congress and that as arresult of
interviews which he has conducted with members of the United
States Congress, he has concluded that the United States for
political reasons does not have the courage to undertake direct
military intervention in Cuba. The CPMUN advised that although
this is the opinion of one person, i.e., OLTMANS, it should be
taken into serious consideration by the Cuban Revolutionary
Government in view of the large number of interviews conducted
by OLTMANS.

According to CPMUN, OLTMANS advised CPMUN that the United
States Government is fearful of retaliatory measures in the event
of a military intervention in Cuba and that these retaliatory
Measures would come from none other than sister Latin American
republic members of the Organization of American States (OAS).

CPMUN further pointed out that OLTMANS has concluded as a re-

SECRET


- 27 - - %

sult of the interviews conducted by him that all sabotage ac-

tivities directed at the Cuban Revolutionary Government in
Cuba emanate from the United States Naval Base in Guantanamo,
Cuba.

CPMUN recommended to MINREX that Cuba define its posi-
tion clearly before the world as to the presence of the United
States-Armed Forces at Guantanamo and that measures be taken to
dislodge these members of the Armed Forces from there,

[FBI Memorandum, 12 October 1962, from Miami, Florida ? DBA 24265.)

30 November 1962 3
que. ; Upan his own request, OLTMANS appeared in open session

ca before the Senate Subcommittee to Investigate the Administration
of the Internal Security Act and Other Internal Security Laws of
the Committee of the Judiciary. His appearance was in connection
with the Subcommittee's concern over attempts of Pro-Castro Forces
to pervert the American press.
(Hearing before the Senate Subcommittee, 30 November 1962, pp.

29-46.)
18 December 1962 5 ‘

OLTMANS said on arrival in Amsterdam by air from the
Aue United States that he intended to take legal action against
Pan the Dutch Foreign Minister J. M. A. H. LUNS.” OLTMANS alleged
to journalists at the airport that he had been refused (on in-
structions from LUNS)a declaration by the Dutch Embassy in
Washington that he was a "bona fide journalist working for
bona fide newspapers". As a result he had been unable to attend
the reception at the Dutch Embassy in Washington and the annual
reception given in the United Nations Building.
OLTMANS also stated that he would consult a lawyer on an

editorial appearing in the newspaper De Telegraaf of 9 August,

déscribing his behavior as "nauseating" and announcing that he

i
would be heard by an American Senate Committee"in connection with
his un-American activities in the Cuban affair".

[Attachment D, ONHA 27828, 14 February 1962.]

SECRET


“DR ak
Zi?

&

OLTMANS accidentally met Willem VERRIPS in Amsterdam.
At this meeting, VERRIPS told OLTMANS that he was sorry about
their past misunderstandings and that he wished to advise OLT-
MANS that he had now moved into a residence around the corner
from OLTMANS' parents.

OLTMANS jadvised (on 25 November 1964) that inasmuch as
he never knew the reason for VERRIPS' original threat (see
1961 entry above) and inasmuch as VERRIPS was a very personable
individual, OLTMANS became very friendly with VERRIPS and as a
result of this friendship learned the following information
from VERRIPS:
| > SVERRIPS fought against the Nazis in the underground in
Holland during World War II. After the war he went to Moscow
and obtained espionage training in the Soviet espionage train-
ing center in Moscow. He subsequently worked in Southeast Asia
and evidently defected to and worked for the "Security Intelli-
gence Agency" of the United States. VERRIPS claimed to OLTMANS
that he was not employed by the CIA at that time and that he
was being paid a $500 a month pension by the Agency. VERRIPS
also stated he had access to a United States passport in the of-
fice of the United States Ambassador in The Hague, Holland.
OLTMANS states VERRIPS apparently lives very’well and that the
Source of his income is unknown. VERRIPS calls himself a "pro-
fessional trouble shooter",

[FBI Memorandum (New York), 10 December 1964 - DBA 94159.]

July 1963 z

OLTMANS in The Netherland where he obtained a visa to

DW od visit Cuba.

i)

* wo"

ao
S

(ONHA+27828, 14 February 1964.]

19 July 1963 2 1

v

OLTMANS called at the United States Consulate General,
Amsterdam, to request assistance in obtaining approval from
the Department or from the Immigration Service for a trip to

Cuba in late August in which he would gather material for a

SECRET :


ue &
ae

& - 29 -

story for Reader's Digest, articles for several small Dutch
papers, and his lectures in the United States for W. Colston
Leigh, Inc., 521 5th Avenue, New York.

OLTMANS is traveling on a new Dutch passport visaed by
the Cuban Embassy in The Hague on 19 June. He has a resident
alien's "green card" but no — permit. He intends to
leave The Netherlands on 5 August stopping first in Paramaribo
and eventually in Curacao before going to Cuba. He requested ©
that notification of permission to go to Cuba and return to the
United States be sent to him at the latest in care of the Ameri-
can. Consulate General in Curacao.

The Consulate General in Amsterdam is currently attemp-
ting to assist the Immigration Service investigation of OLTMANS
whose deportation is being considered on the grounds of subver-
sion and perversion. He is known in The Netherlands as a person
of doubtful reliability, pérsonally, professionally, and politi¢
cally.

{Airgram no. A-18 from Amsterdam, 25 July 1963 - see ONHA 27828.]

25 November 1964 H .
OLTMANS identified his source (Willem VERRIPS) who had pro-'

vided him with what he (OLTMANS) considered to be a summary of

the contents of his file which he believed was in the possession

of the United States Attorney General at the time the summary

of its contents was provided.

OLTMANS advised that he was providing this information
inasmuch as VERRIPS had now been discredited as a reliable source
of information in his eyes, and inasmuch as he, OLTMANS, feared
VERRIPS.

OLTMANS advised (the FBI) that when he learned that he
was being investigated by the I§NS he contacted VERRIPS, who had
previously advised him that he (VERRIPS) had access to informa-
tion in the office of the United States Attorney General, and
requested VERRIPS to attempt tw determine the nature of the in-
vestigation being conducted against him by the United States
Government. As reported in a previous memorsndum from the FBI

[no record] OLTMANS alleges that VERRIPS replied to his call

SECT


7 - 30 - P
(S, ¢

and provided the summary of the investigation allegedly being

conducted against OLTMANS. VERRIPS also told the father of
OLTMANS, a prominent Dutch attorney, thatthe had contacted the
United States Attorney General Robert F. KENNEDY during the
latter's visit to Berlin and that VERRIPS had requested that
KENNEDY clear up the cloud of suspicion concerning OLTMANS.
[FBI FR (New York), 10 December 1964 - DBA 94159.]

25 November 1964 2

OLTMANS stated (to the FBI on 25 November 1964) that since
<per oat his return. from Asia he has been contacted repeatedly by Gheorghe
POPA, Second Secretary, Rumanian Mission to the United Nations,
concerning POPA's request that OLTMANS write articles for Ruma-
nian publications. OLTMANS advised he has no intention of wri-
ting the articles requested by POPA.

OLTMANS advised that since his return from Asia he has
observed and attempted to speak with Emeric DIMBU, Second Se-
cretary, Rumanian Mission to the United Nations, and that DIMBU,
who was absent from the United Nations since March 1964, ap-
pears to be very cold toward OLTMANS and apparently does not
wish to continue their friendly asso¢iation which had taken
place for about five years. OLTMANS stated that "it appears
that DIMBU has turned me over to POPA for development".

[FBI FR (New York), 10 December 1964 ~ DBA 94159.)

12 December 1964 3

The FBI's New York office received a letter from OLT-
MANS in Amsterdam in which he stated that “upon return to Hol-
land, I learned that Mr. W. VERRIPS had been buried two days

earlier following an automobile accident in which he was killed
following (an alleged) attempt on his life two weeks earlier.
The _press called it the tragic end of 'a mysterious life'. I
thought I would let you know since we discussed recently Mr.

‘

VERRIPS' mysterious ways." 1
(FBI Letterhead Memorandum, dated 4 January 1965 - DBA 95189,]

Late May - Early June 1965

et. The diplomatic representation of the People's Republic

4 23
SECRET


ok

n
CP a oy

of China offered a lunch in The Hague to Willem OLTMANS. During
this three-hour lunch, OLTMANS very willingly answered the ques-
tions about the things he knew about the political development
in the United States. The Chinese were almost exclusively inte-
rested in the Viet-Nam question. In this connection the Chinese
were especially interested in what OLTMANS knew about the power
andrextent of the opposition in the United States and the chances
for success of this opposition.
(IN: 14275, 12 July 1966.)

16 June 1965 H
OLTMANS plans to write an article on CHOU En-lai for
wt Playboy. OLTMANS, who is planning to travel to China, talked
t i to the Chinese communists during the evening about the possi-
bility of an interview with CHOU En-lai. The Chinese would,
of course, have to refer this one to Peking for a decision.
(ONE) 30863, 16 July 1965.)

31 August 1966 z

Haagse Courant carried an interview with OLTMANS in

\2 which the 1atter said his Purpose for visiting CV [sic] was

# to arrange a China visa. OLTMANS also plans to discuss his ~
China trip with the Dutch foreign minister.

(tHe HacuE)i068 (IN 89879), 6 September 1966.]

HG 25-6
October 1966 8
October 1966

OLTMANS in charge of Dutch television team in Djakarta.
He has been active in attempting to promote a visit of Princess
fe yore BEATRIX to Indonesia. SUKARNO actually issued such an invita-
tion after talking to OLTMANS. Latter has also been pushing
“compromise with SUKARNO" line with Indonesian officials.

(brax)s961 (xy 22251), 21 october 1966.]
(eto

3 May 1967 H

yh Jacob BAAL-TESHUVA, who resides at 220 West 72nd Street,
& Ne? New York City, a free-lance writer and accredited UN correspon-
dent for twelve years, voluntarily appeared at the FBI's New York
Office and furnished the following information:

He advised that on 30 April 1967 he Was contacted by

SECRET

3 (rd


tan

aS

a) -32- ca B

aa
telephone at his home by a Willem OLTMANS, a UN correspondent
and free-lace writer, who is known as a "leftist" in UN corres~
pondent circles. He advised that having worked at the UN for
about 12 years, he knows OLTMANS but does not consider him a
friend. Recently, when he ran an art exhibition at the Beilin

Galleries, he sent out invitations to most of the UN correspon-

its.. He stated that OLTMANS had called to say he was sorry
that he could not attend the exhibition, and to thank him for
the invitation: extended to him. During the conversation, OLT-
MANS asked if TESHUVA was writing any articles for Playboy
nagazine, to which TESHUVA answered he was commissioned to do
an-article and interview:of the former Premier of Russia,
Alexander KERENSKY of New York City, to which OLTMANS replied
"I just sold an article to Ramparts about the CIA in Indonesia".
(FBI Letterhead Memorandum (New York), 12 May 1967 - DBA 85183.]

22 February 1968 : .

OLTMANS presented a one-hour exclusive interview with
Jim GARRISON, New Orleans District Attorney, on Dutch television,
at prime time on 22 February 1968.

GARRISON explained that President KENNEDY was murdered ‘
because his concept of detente was detrimental to the "military-
industrial complex". He repeated well-known thesis that KENNEDY
was a victim of a plot by CIA, who made common cause with the
military-industrial establishment, with vested interest in keeping
the cold war going. GARRISON also stated CIA committed to the
Asian land war while one of President's last orders was for troop
reduction there. He predicted that the President who brings the
United States to the brink of peace will suffer same fate as
KENNEDY.

When queried about the reason for the program, especially
made for a European audience, GARRISON said the growing CIA in-
fluence on United States media made it inpossible for him to be
heard in his own country.

OLTMANS, said to be a lnited States citizen, is charac-
terized by his former colleagues as someone "more interested in

shady politics than in journalism".

SECRET


FISSNE

a

C2 -33- 8

Author's comment: The most damaging aspect of this pro+
gram is that GARRISON's person and presnetation was sufficiently
credible to elicit rather favorable comment in the TV reviews
from such generally well-informed newspapers as Nieuwe Rotter-
damse Courant, among others, Several Dutch viewers also commen-
ted on the credibility of his person and presentation. Likely
that Dutch television will try to sell this program to other
European stations.

(Department of State telegram from the Hague no. 3981, 23 Feb-_
ruary 1968.]

27 February 1968 (date of cable)

In reference to Jim GARRISON's anterview on Dutch Tele-
vision on 22 February 1968, he. Station)elains that OLTMANS* file
will reveal fact that he was a practicing homosexual during his
Indonesian days (with SUKARNO and SHARTO among others), and has
allegedly committed same acts in Netherlands.

(NB: The OLTMANS' 201 file does not support this state-
ment. ‘There is no indication that OLTMANS had homosexual rela-
tions with SUKARNO. OLTMANS was charged with lewdness in 1954; .
however, there was insufficient evidence and the charge was
dropped.)

(Gerd HAGUE) 3870 CIN $9064), 27 February 1968.]
‘6 eee moor :

26 March 1968 (date of dissemination)

The Agency sends a dissemination to FBI on GARRISON
and the KENNEDY assassination. Subject of the report was:
"Interview of GARRISON on Dutch TV by Willem L. OLTMANS".
Dissemination included as an attachment the transcript of
GARRISON's interview which took place on 22 February 1968.
[CSCI-316/01213-68, 26 March 1968.]

S April 1968 (date of report): 2K

The following information was received from an(official

Dutch Service)on 5S April 1968:

"Willem OLTMANS, a Dutch journalist, travels
regularly to the United States to produce tele-
vision commentaries. OLTMANS is a homosexual and
his sympathies lie with Peking.

SECRET


wo

Cc y - 34 - en
"OLTMANS recently interviewed some negro
student athletes, who had refused to take part
in the Olympic games in Mexico, for the Dutch
Television Foundation (NTS). In this interciew
a professor said: 'We are prepared to blow up
the White House and LBJ and Ladybird'. OLTMANS’
cameramen, who had borrowed the equipment from
CBS, were alarmed by this and predicted that
the film would be destroyed if it got into Ameri-
can hands. This interview will probably be shown
shortly on Dutch television.

"OLTMANS , who previously produced a commentary
on the murder of KENNEDY, is. still working on this
matter in cooperation with Jim GARRISON. He claims
to know who the KENNEDY murderer was. In connec-
tion with this, OLTMANS has been the guest of an
‘oil millionaire’ in Texas.

"According to OLTMANS he was invited there
because of 'his knowledge of the affair' and the
fact that he would be able to actras a medium to
bring the facts to the world. At his request
Jim GARRISON has provided him with a body guard
while. working on this matter.

"In Texas it appeared to him that the group

which had financed KENNEDY's murder had had a deep
seated quarrel and had fallen into two groups.
Some details regarding this affair have come to
light and it is seriously being considered to
bring them to the public via a television broad-
cast. OLTMANS is going to discuss this with NTS
and bring it about."

2
fom) 35638, 11 June 1968.]

29 June 1968 i
# ZI, Tony DAKE, head of Dutch Television, had an appoint-
ment to interview North Vietnamese representation during the
Paris talks at 10:00 a.m. Without his knowledge, however,
his assistant OLTMANS had submitted written questions to the
North Vietnamese delegation in advance and made an appoint-
ment for 9:00 a.m. the same day. When DAKE arrived as sche-
duled, OLTMANS was interviewing North Vietnamese representative
and DAKE was refused admittance. Interview turned out to be
recitation by the North Vietnamese of standard line except for
two spontaneous questions: OLTMANS asked whether North Viet-Nam
would continue bombing Saigon during the Paris talks. After
hesitation, reply was: "Yes"; second question was whether North
Vietnamese delegation would receive Senatbr McCARTHY if he. asks
for meeting. Reply was "North Viet-Nam would talk to anyone".

DAKE said decision has been made not to broadcast pro-

gram because of straight propaganda of North Vietnamese repre-

SECRET


- 55° i metre careers

sentative. DAKE said one interesting development was the

North Vietnamese delegation has telephoned NTS repeatedly
since 29 June asking that the two spontaneous questions
and replies be deleted. DAKE thought North Vietnamese in-
sistence might be significant.

As result of OLTMANS' deceit and insubordination, ~
DAKE intends to do everything he can to bar OLTMANS from
the NTS team scheduled to cover US Presidential conventions
in August. .
{Airgram, American Embassy, The Hague, no. 6037, 31 July 1968.]

8 July 1968 :
OLTMANS telephones QKFLOWAGE representative in The

# pre Hague to advise her of the following information:

He prefaced his conversation by stating he was anti-
American, based on the Kennedy assassination and racial dis-
crimination in the United States. Despite this fact, he
stated, LNPURE here should be made aware of a Dutch group
which (even he) finds outrageously untruthful and slanderous
against the United States. The group called Cine Club, the
director of which is Ad Van PRAAG, Cornelius Schuitstraat,
Amsterdam. OLTMANS reports he was invited to participate in
a meeting of the Amsterdam or Rotterdam section of the Cine
Club on 2 July 1968. He found meeting particularly shocking:
the main speaker gave a twisted. obscene, and lying picture
of the United States.

QKFLOWAGE believes OLTMANS' true motivation furnish-
ing this information based on his desire to cover United States
Presidential elections without visa troubles. Also, OLTMANS
may be attempting to gain American ears in coming fight be-
tween himself and NTS public event chief, Tony DAKE.

(ne nace) 4477 (IN 46469), 9 July 1968.]

20-6
October 1969 2 ‘

i :
a2 OLTMANS, correspondent for the Netherlands television
#12

system, has been traveling with the presidential candidate

NIXON. OLTMANS has been busy reporting to the Dutch people on

“pd SECRET


tr
t yout

#!

Fpl

232

os = 36- . %

many other interesting ramifications of the life of Richard’
NIXON, particularly the NIXON law firm. He made a telecast
this week describing how NIXON, as attorney for Pepsi-Cola,
had flown to Taiwan where CHIANG Kai-shek had canceled the
Pepsi-Cola concession.

OLTMANS also told Dutch viewers how NIXON's law firm
had been paid almost a million dollars by two Tailroads, and
how he had come out vigorously against a trucking bill before
Congress in September which the railroads opposed; also how
NIXON's firm had represented El Paso Natural Gas and other
oil firms and that NIXON had issued a statement favoring the
27 1/2 per cent oil depletion allowance and opposing too much
Federal regulation of industry, 0i1, and gas always having
been heavily regulated industries.

OLTMANS also reported to Dutch viewers that the NIXON
law partners: were actively managing his election campaign,
[JackAnderson article, The Washington Post, 29 October 1968.]

6 February 1969 (date of cable)

_OLTMANS fishing for information on (Stans whereabouts, *,
possibly on behalf of Peking. Geation )strongly recommends under
no circumstances should OLTMANS be given any information nor
access to Gidane although it might be interesting to try to de-
termine further what it is he wants to know.

(rue. wc) 542s CIN 87916), 6 February 1969.]
Pre

17 June 1969 (date of report): 4

According to an Gfficial Dutch Service) Willem OLTMANS'
hatred of the present administration in Indonesia will find an
outlet in a-new book entitled The Generals, which deals with
the SUHARTO era and is more or less a sequel to his book The
Traitors: ~ OLTMANS claims that he has a large number of photo-
copies of bank transfers, personal instruction, etc., which
Clearly demonstrate the corruption of the eee under SUHARTO.
OLTMANS intends to spare SUHARTO, because the latter had asked
him to do so at the time, but he (OLTMANS) does not know if it
will be possible; he says that Professor WERTHEIM, who is writing

SECRET



the introduction to The Generals is exerting considerable
pressure to make him nevertheless denigrate SUHARTO. OLT-
MANS obtained his information in the following manner:
Senator TOWERS of Texas has had a confidential agent in Djakarta
for a number of years, the main reason being that Texas had en-
tered into considerable commitments with the new regime (cereals,
vice, and lend lease). TOWERS wanted to know whether his aid
Was going to the right places. The confidential agent's re-
ports were sent by TOWERS to the head of the American Chamber
of Commerce for Indonesia in New York. The latter is a good
friend of OLTMANS and it is from him that OLTMANS has managed
to get hold of the necessary information in the form of photo-
copies.

In New York, OLTMANS had an unexpected visit from an

acquaintance from Djakarta - a young man, a homosexual like

OLTMANS, who works for Indonesian military intelligent
though this Indonesian spent a few days with OLTMANS, he did

not succeed in persuading OLTMANS to abandon his plan. The
young man left with the warning that OLTMANS would be in dan-
ger if he published the book. Y

Upon his return to Holland, OLTMANS asked the clair-
voyant CROISET, of Utrecht, whom he consults regularly. CROISET
told OLTMANS that he could go ahead, because they would not get
at hin anyway.

American solicitors have formed an "Association for the _
Investigation of Assassinations" in Washington. OLTMANS was of-
fered membership, so he said, in the European branch. He also
consulted CROISET on this point; the latter advised him to
join. Moreover, CROISET saw that the Soviet Union had something
to do with the formation of this association.

(@iiAser19, 8 July 1969.]

‘

March 1970 : H
& In March 1970, OLTMANS began contacts with the Soviet
* \? Press Attache, Vladimir OPALEV. OLTMANS would like to have
an interview with Germen GVISHIANI - a filmed interview.
(owna) 38577, 1 February 1972;| “L internal)

eal
70 SECRET


- 38 -

Early July 1970 3

3 OLTMANS is refused an Indonesian visa.

RIP? tre HAGUE)19762 (IN 346689), 3 June 1971.)
20-6

September 1970 H

ft OLTMANS suddenly received an invitation to a party at
ek Da the Soviet Embassy. He thinks it's crazy as he does not belong
ae ee that Slub at all. His thinking, however, is along the lines
of those people. ZY

(OnHA)38577, 1 February 1972 - - internal service.]
a a

October 1970
Ag OLTMANS appears interested in an interview with KOSYGIN's
dk ajv{son- in-law, Germen GVISHIANI, who allegedly was connected with

a) American-Soviet dicussions about forming a mutual "think tank".
Presumably this and some connection with the so-called Club of
Rome in which GVISHIANI plays a role. (NB: GVISHTANT is chair-
man of the State Committee for Science and Technology and is
suspected of being a highly placed intelligence officer.)
(enna) 38577, 1 February 1972 - - intetna service) ~
2%

[Club of Rome: - "With man at the pinnacle of his knowledge and
power, a profound malaise is spreading through human society,
Faced with an increasingly more complex and m oroenanging
tangle of intertwined problems - some of them overarching all
political, cultural, and geographical boundaries - mankind is
threatened by an unprecedented crisis.

"Thirty European scientists, humanists, educa-
tors, and managers met in April 1968, at the Academy of Lincei
in Rome, to discuss how this Broblenatique could be understood
and met. Some of them Pledged to stay together as an informal
group, and to:coopt people of vision and action from all con-
tinents, cultures, and value systems, who shared their convic-
tion that traditional institutions and policies are no longer
able to cope with this situation or even to perceive its trends.

"This group is known as the Club of Rome. Its
members can number one hundred as a maximum. One of them is
involved in current political decisions, nor has the club as
a whole any ideological, political, o r national commitments,
although many of its members have access to decision makers
and have great stores of information and knowledge to draw upon,

"The Club of Rome has two main objectives: One

the study of limits to growth, which is being; discussed in this
book as its main theme. The second objective is to use the in-
sight so acquired to promote new Reaecees and strategies in-
spired by a new humanism and capable of setting mankind on a
saner course." .

Statement by Aurelio Peccei, Founder and Chairman of the Club
of Rome. Cited in Willem L- OLTMANS, On Growth, G. P. Putnam's
Sons, New York, 1974, pp. xi-xii.]

SECRET

Sled


ue

ay

aw

dy

3 Ve?

Qvez

4

yb

Rev?

Hie

(fry

eo

oe

5 October 1979
OLTMANS visited Algiers to interview Black Panther

4 leader Eldridge CLEAVER.

(fHE HAGUE) 19762 (IN 348689), 3 June 1971.)
20-0

April 1971 H

Through the cooperation of Aurelio PECCEI, Chairman:

4 of the Club of Rome, OLTMANS, at the end of April 1971, suc-

ceeded in getting in contact with GVISHIANI in Paris. Also
present at this discussion was the former member of the Soviet
Embassy FEDEROVSKY, now chief of potocol of the State Commit-
tee for Science and Technology. During this meeting, GVISHIANI
invited OLTMANS to the Soviet Union. FEDEROVSKY was instructed
to inform the Soviet Embassy in The Hague. GVISHIANI, who is
also chairman of the Commission for Environment Administration
in the Soviet Union, asked OLTMANS to make a film at the same
time about the environment administration in the USSR to support

the international environment conference to be held this year

(1971 or 1972). zy

fonna) 33577, 1 February 1972 - ~ internal service.)
22

May 1971 2

It becomes clear that since OLTMANS' discussion with

BAY GVISHIANI, OPALEV's attitude-towards OLTMANS“has greatly changed.

He is now all willingness. In May, OLTMANS made his film with
GVISHIANI and received an invitation to go to the Soviet Union
for the second half of August and the whole of September, where

he would be able to film ten scientific institutes. GVISHIANI

told OLTMANS he had complete trust in him. 24

(QuHA)38577, 1 February 1972 -| - internal service.)
ce

& May 1971 (daté of report): al

2 Quteh service jis intrigued by (SYWEB's) apparent involve-~
ment if not active anperest in pro-Chinesé communist matters.
Che Dutch) and Ge. Station) consider the possibility that Gymes}s
interest in pro-Chinese communist matters and individuals re-

flects.an effort to satisfy Soviet intelligence requirements.)

SECRET


zy of
In this connection, the Duteh-Service notes that (S¥wEBJcon-

tinues contact with the following pro-Chinese communist in-
dividuals: Willem L. OLTMANS and Professor Willem F. WERT~
HEIM.

(onna)sai44, 4 May 1971.1
22

1 June 1971 (date of information):
&,: OLTMANS visited the Soviet Union to interview Dzhermar.

wikhaylovich GVISHIANI.

(tHE HAGUE)19762 (IN 348689), 3 June 1971.]

; eae
3 June 1971 (date of cable):
~ (eaten) received (atet) report that OLTMANS claimed he had

De ot Foon invited by the National Security Council of the United

States to discuss Southeast Asian affairs. Alleged invitation

acca
a)

was extended by Henry KISSINGER's assistant, MITCHELL.
(az nacud)i9762 (IN 548689), 3 June 1971-1]

zorb
June 1972

—puk & 4 OLTMANS again in contact with GVISHIANI, this time in
. yee Vienna, where there was a meeting of the Club of Rome.
(onna)33877, 1 February 1972 - - internal service.)
ww 24

August 1971 : H
OLTMANS plans to visit-Soviet Union to visit ten scien-

AS 29
Duk 425 tific institutions.

23
cA (HE HAGUE)19762 (IN 348689), 3 June 1971.]
206
18 August 197 H zy

(tation)received report sron(Duteh service \to the ef-

a1 fect that OLTMANS had received a letter from Mr. HOLDRIDGE,

eee i
+} Chief of Staff for Asia and assistant to KISSINGER. As a result
of which (and presumably subsequent correspondence from OLTMANS
to HOLDRIDGE), OLTMANS expects to meet with HOLDRIDGE in Wash-
ington on 6 or 7 September 1971.
(fue HAGUE) 20138 (IN 40397), 18 August ion. 1
w-6

24 August 1971

aut The Agency prepared an informal memorandum for passage

eva

SECRET

40 - 2 bos see eo ae


Ce ae

to Mr. HOLDRIDGE on 24 August 1971. Memorandum contained
short summary of information on OLTMANS. :

{Informal blind memorandum, 24 August 1971.]

17 September 1971 z
(5-

Gt ation Yeceived a memorandum from an (official Dutch
jt Aservice reflecting OLTMANS' reaction to his recent meeting
RY? with FSO John M. HOLDRIDGE in Washington. It would appear
that Mr. HOLDRIDGE a adopted an attitude of circumspection in
dealing. with OLTMANS.

According to OLTMANS,, the visit lasted only twenty
minutes. By that time he had come to the conclusion that it
was senseless to try to have a useful conversation with this
“former Marine colonel and victim of arteriosclerosis".

(ONHA) 38421, 17 September 1971.)
2 : i

October’ 1971
OLTMANS sees GVISHIANI in Paris, where, among other

4 uw? zy, A things, he spake. to him about his visit to The Netherlands
“ ye? in the second week of October. OLTMANS did his best to oblige
GVISHIANI while visiting The Netherlands by trying to estab- G
lish business contacts for him - for instance with Philips. _
(Qnta)s8577, 1 February 1972 -, - internal service)]
22 6 oee ety

November 1971
OLTMANS received an offer from the. Soviet State Television

for a five-year cont@rct to make extensive films in the USSR.

This offer was made to OLTMANS during his visit to the Soviet

* Union. It is the confirmation of the earlier offer by GVISHTANI
to film a number of scientific institutions in the USSR. On 17
November, OLTMANS allegedly discussed this business further with
GVISHIANI in Geneva. 24
ox 38577, 1 February 1972 + - internal service.)

14 December 1971 (date of dissemination):!

On 10 December 1971, it was reported by a
a \o? PP a oitt e hat William Leonard OLTMANS (who has been the subject of

Security

previous CIA and Federal Bureau of Investigation reporting) was

Sih SECRET


3(P/

: pol ~&
ee) - 42 - 2

attempting to obtain, in the near future, State Department clas-
sified documents via an American contact, fnu JONES. Said docu-

ments concern conversations between John Foster DULLES, former

‘Dutch Foreign Minister Josef LUNS, and former Dutch Ambassador

to the United States, J. H. Van ROIJEN,.on the topic of New
Guinea and Indonesia. a

According to source, OLTMANS is currently attempting to
embarrass and discredit LUNS. OLTMANS already has inspired a
recent anti-LUNS article entitled "Has Luns Mis-led Us?", writ-
ten by one Joris van der BERGIN and printed in a sensationalist
Dutch newspaper Vrij Nederland. Source speculates that fnu
JONES mentioned above, may be former US Ambassador to Indonesia,
Howard JONES, as source has established that OLTMANS and Howard
JONES met in September 1971, in Boston. Given his background
of being a leftist, anti-American journalist, should OLTMANS

obtain the abovementioned classified material, source feels

OLTMANS would use it to . . . embarrass [publicly] all parties
concerned.
[DIR » 14 December 1971, to Department of State with infor-

mation copy to the FBI. Dissemination based upon (Hie Hague)

20670 (IN 492139), 14 December 1971.] oo

14 January 1972 3 7

It is known that OLTMANS recently attended a meeting

where a number of Soviets were present. This meeting is be-

lieved to have been one held by the Nederland-USSR Association

on 14 January 1972. 2

(QNHA)38577, 1 February 1972 + ~ internal service)]
2

18 January 1972
. On order to gain further publicity in his campaign

against LUNS, OLTMANS announced plans to hold a! press conference
on 20 January. In preparation he invited several leading Dutch
journalists as well as three Soviet diplomats, all KGB suspects:

Cultural Attache Vladimir KUZNETSOV,

First Secretary Nikolay IZVEKOV, and

Novosty representative Vladimir OPALEV,

SEGRET


‘thy

om 23
y - 43 - 2
to his apartment for a preview of press conference on evening
of 18 January 1972. Unbeknownst to OLTMANS and other guests,
a journalist from De Telegraaf showed up. At same time a photo-
graphers from De Telegraaf photographed the Soviets' automobile
parked outside OLTMANS' apartment. On 19 January De Telegraaf
contained front page photographs and accompanying headlines ac-
cusing Soviets of collusion with OLTMANS and interference in
Dutch internal affairs. On 20 January in follow-up article
citing informed circles in The Hague, De Telegraaf implied
Soviet encouragement of OLTMANS' campaign against LUNS in order
to discredit him in his current role as NATO Secretary General
as LUNS apposes Soviet desires for early convocation 6f European
Security Conference. Article also indicates OLTMANS plans to _ am
make a film in the Soviet Union and suggests Soviets utilizing
this fact in encouraging him in his campaign against LUNS.
(station) is sure that the Dutch services passed infgrms-
tion on OLTMANS'. invitation of Soviets to De Telegraaf. (staticn )
also believes the Dutch provided other information to De Telegraaf.
official)clains OLTMANS has a five-year retainer
from the Soviets as an overt public relations man. OLTMANS has
aclose relationship with KOSYGIN's fon-in-law Dzherman Mikhaylovich
GVISHIANI, who is behind OLTMANS' invitation to make a film in
the USSR and to interview several prominent Soviet scientists.

(ae HAGUE) 20797 (IN §18014), 20 January 1972.]
204

19 January 1972 2
The popular Dutch morning newspaper De Telegraaf repor-

ted today that "Hague circles" believed that. Soviet diplomats
in Holland were engaged in activities aimed at discrediting the
former Foreign Minister, Josef J. M. A. H. LUNS, who is now
Secretary General of NATO.

The report is one of a series of recent developments
which have placed LUNS in the center of controversy in connec-
tion with secret archives in The Hague which he left behind
when he gave up his position as Foreign Minister to work for
NATO.

The Telegraaf report was accompanied by a photograph

CEPRET


é
‘o) 44 -

showing a Soviet Embassy car parked outside the house of Willem
OLTMANS, who describes himself as a journalist.

OLTMANS has applied to the Dutch Attorney General for a
Prosecution of LUNS, allegedly for having :misled" the Dutch
Government during negotiations with Indonesia on former Dutch
New Guinea. The Dutch Government yesterday refused OLTMANS'
Tequest.

De Telegraaf claimed today that OLTMANS was "on good
footing with the Russians" and had already been to Moscow twice.
The Paper said that OLTMANS had talks last night at his home-in

Amsterdam "with a number of left-wing personalities on such sub-
jects. as NATO and LUNS", The report added that three represen-
tatives of the Soviet Embassy in The Hague, the Political,
Cultural, and Press Attaches were also present.

Their behavior indicates a rather obtrusive interference
with Dutch affairs and Hague circles say it is certainly unu-
sual, the paper said.

De Telegraaf said Hague circles pointed out that the Russians
would be very interested in discrediting the new and active Secre-
tary General of NATO. In that function LUNS has already displayed
great energy in the way he has tackled the Malta problem, which
Was threatening to be lost to NATO.

[The surprising presence of the three Soviet diplomats
in OLTMANS' house last night indicates possible Soviet attempts
to exert influence in the current campaign against the person
of the Secretary-General of NATO. The paper added that it was
too much of a coincidence that the three Russians called on
OLTMANS just before he is due to give his press conference in
The Hague tomorrow morning.

(OLTMANS has announced that he had cabled LUNS asking him
to attend the press conference so that he couls accuse him pub-
licly of "misleading" the Government and (former) President
SUKARNO of Indonesia. LUNS is due in Holland anyway tomorrow to
join other prominent KLM guests for its inaugural flight to Hong
Kong.)

Asked to comment on De Telegraaf report today, a spokes-

SECRET


\

2
\?

e
od

re)

€ - 45 -

man for the Seviet Embassy in The Hague told ANP:

"The report is a barefaced lie and a libel on the
staff of the Soviet Embassy and is devoid of foundation. Such
a publication is a pure invention on the part of the gentlemen
of the Telegraaf, who dream of harming the Soviet Union in some
way or other and disturbing relations between the Soviet Union
and the Netherlands in some way. That does no credit to this
newspaper, which specializes in this kind of anti-Soviet fabrica-
tions. The Soviet diplomats have hitherto never interfered in
Dutch domestic affairs and are not doing so now. The presence
of the diplomats at OLTMANS' cocktail party, which was also at-
tended by many other Dutch journalists, was purely purely a mat-
ter of routine. The diplomats received an invitation for this
party in December last year".
[Dutch News Service, 19 January 1972.]

20 January 1972 2
In a press conference in The Hague on 20 January 1972,

OLTMANS announced he was suing De Telegraaf for taking unauthori-
zed photographs of his house and for implying he was a Soviet “
stooge. OLTMANS also suing the editor of the respected Nieuwe
Rotterdamse Courant in whose company a De Telegraaf photo-
grapher came to his home. Sensing his charges against LUNS'
Indonesian policy dated, academic, and not catching fire, OLT-
MANS threw on some current fuel. He claims former Ambassador
Van ROOIJEN warned Queen about LUNS' prevarications last year
and this led Prince BERNHARD to seek to prevent LUNS from be-
coming NATO Secretary: General.

Parliament still in recess and no Parliamentarian has com-

mented publicly on the charges, but leftist Volkskrant front

pages foreign Afeairs Committee will consider matter 1 February
and decide whether Parliamentary investigation useful. Spokes-
man said not only OLTMANS but several youth groups pressing for
inquiry. Soviets have maintained a judicious silence about en-
tire affair since Embassy issued a statement denying connection
between the presence of Soviet guests at OLTMANS' home and his
anti-LUNS campaign.

[CABLE no. 297 from American Embassy, The Hague, 21 January 1972.)

SECRET


#12"

, - 46 -

21 January 1972 (date of dissemination):
"1, The following information was received fron (a|

security lservice Fezarding subject (Willem Leonard OLTMANS).
Efforts by subject discredit and embarrass the NATO Secretary
General and former Dutch Foreign Minister Josef LUNS, are con-
tinuing.. On 18 January 1972, subject announced he had sent a
letter to the Dutch Attorney General demanding the presecution
of LUNS on the grounds he deliberately misled the former Dutch
Prime Minister, Willem DRIES, with respect to LUNS; policy
toward the question of West New Guinea. Although not directly
connected subject's latest move follows information that LUNS'
personal papers, which had been stored at: his former official
residence, had been refiled by ‘authorized persons'.

"2, In order to gain further publicity in his campaign
against LUNS, OLTMANS held a press conference on 20 January
1972. This press conference, held in subject's apartment, was
attended by several leading Dutch journalists as well as three
Soviet diplomats, who are identified as suspect KGB officers.

"3. Che Securi y Service) reported that subject
plans to make a film in the Soviet Union and that subject has
a five-year retainer from the Soviet Union as an overt public
relations man. Subject also has a close relationship with
Premier KOSYGIN's son-in-law, German Mikahilovich GVISHIANI,
who is reportedly behind OLTMANS' invitation to make the above
film in the Soviet Union and interview several prominent Soviet
scientists. 24

"4, Ge Security Service reported that subject
plans to visit the United States circa 6 February 1972, and
among others, he plans to meet with Washington columnist Jack
ANDERSON."

[DIR 223944, 21 January 1972; to-FBI and State.]

23 January 1972 : :
OLTMANS scheduled to leave for thé Soviet Union on

Sunday, 23 January, where he will discuss documentary film
with State Television.
[Cable no. 297 from US Embassy, The Hague, 21 January 1972.]

SECRET


e
x!

Soy

-47-

1 February 1972 (date of dissemination):

"1, The following additional information was received

2
=l0 from a( Security Service) regarding subject (OLTNANS). From

23 to 26 January 1972 subject visited the USSR to make final ar-
rangements for an ecology film he plans to make in the Soviet
Union. He claims to have met with Premier KOSYGIN's son-in-law,
German Mikhailovich GVISHIANI while in Moscow. OLTMANS plans to
leave for the United States on 6 February where he will remain
until 8 March. On 12 March he plans to leave for and undeter-
mined stay in the USSR.

"2, -In addition to an interview with Jack ANDERSON,
OLTMANS plans to make a filmed interview with Philip HANDLER,
Chairman of ‘the National Academy of Science. Subject intends
to make a combined film portrait of HANDLER and his Soviet
counterpart M. V. KELDYSH. He also intends to meet with Howard
JONES, former U. S. Ambassador to Indonesia and current chair-
man of the Board of the Christian Science Monitor."
{DIR 228058, 1 February 1972, to the FBI with copy to the De-

partment of State (Security Office).]

6 February 1972 tg
According to & Dutch Service) OLTMANS plans to visit

the United States about 6 February 1972; among others, OLT-
MANS will meet with columnist Jack ANDERSON.

(re HAGUE)20797 (IN 18014), 20 January 1972.]
z-b
1976 :

It was learned today (1 April 1977) from reliable
sources that de MOHRENSCHILDT tried to commit suicide four
times in 1976 both with drug overdoses and by slashing his
wrists. These attempts resulted in his being committed for
mental care to Parkland Hospital in Dallas in the fall.
[The Washington Star, 1 April 1977.]

'
a

January 1976 H
De MOHRENSCHILDT wrote OLTMANS that he was preparing a

book and sent several pages to the Dutch reporter for consi-

deration.

[The Washington Star, 31 March 1977.)
Tie -
SEGNET

ane


2
a4 yo? °

Ke) oA

3/V

ck - 48 - S
30 April 1976 (date of cable) 24

(fondon Station $tates that had three letters
dated July 1975, one having been signed by OLTHMANS and the
other two by Dewi SUKARNO. OLTMANS' letter was an expression
of- interest in the Senate investigations and particularly in
any aspect regarding Indonesia. OLTMANS claimed to have known
SUXARNO quite well and said he had had several discussions
with SUKARNO on the subject of activities of the CIA and how
the CIA was. trying to oust SUKARNO. Dewi SUKARNO's two let-
ters were requests for information on the results of the Se-

nate investigation and hoped that the inquiries would serve to

clear her husband's name.

Cond) 72167 (IN ), 30 April 1976.]
Zor]

June 1976 g

meme

De MOHRENSCHILDT's book was completed, but Jeanne de
MOHRENSCHILDT told OLTMANS she was upset when she read it. She
told her husband he would go to jail if it were published be-
Cause-it was about the assassination of Kennedy and mentioned
names of CIA and FBI agents throughout.

(The Washington Star, 31 March 1977.]

S September 1976 2

George de MOHRENSCHILDT sends a letter to George BUSH
in which he says:

"You will excuse this hand-written letter. Mayhe
you will he able to bring a solution into the hopeless
situation I find myself in. 7

"ly wife and I find ourselves surrounded by some
vigilantes; our phone bugged and we are being followed
everywhere. Either FBI is involved in this or they do
not want to accept my complaints. We are driven to
insanity by this situation.

"I have been behaving like a damn fool ever since
my daughter Nadva died from CF [cystic fibrosis] over
three years ago. I tried to write, stupidly and un-
successfully ahout Lee H. OSWALD and must have annoyed
a lot of people - I do not know. But to punish an el-
derly man like myself and my highly nervous and sick
wife is really too much. 1 .

"Could you do something to retlove this net around
us? This will be my last request for help and I will
not annoy you any more. E

"Good luck in your important job.

"Sincerely, /s/ G. de MOHRENSCHILDT."

[Letter written by George de MOHRENSCHILDT to George BUSH,
5 September 1976.]

: SECRET


ij


apo?

Yor

ea

Vee

w\

re: ere o%

November 1976 A

OLTMANS went to Dallas and called de MOHRENSCHILDT,
only to be told by his wife that he had bean in a hospital
for several months. OLTMANS said he called de MOHRENSCHILDT's
lawyer, Pat S, RUSSELL, and was told de MOHRENSCHILDT was in
a mental hospital suffering from a Persecution complex and
undergoing heavy shock treatment.

According to OLTMANS » the manuscript of the book is in
the custody of RUSSELL. The Dallas attorney could not be
reached for comment, but OLTMANS said he was told RUSSELL has
the book. in his office files. He reportedly has. not read the

manscript.

[The Washington Star, 31 March 1977 - author: Jeremiah O'LEARY.)
23 February 1977 3
ae

OLTMANS went back to Dallas and had lunch with de MOHREN-
SCHILDT, who was now back at work, The journalist said this ex-
change’ took place in the Bishop College library:

- De MOHRENSCHILDT: "How would it hit the media if I came
out and said I felt responsible for OSWALD's behavior?

OLTMANS : "You mean what OSWALD did? Shot or
not shot, he was involved in the shooting. You have
links here to the shooting of the President of the
United States.

De MOHRENSCHILDT: "'T realize that and I don't want to
incriminate myself directly, but I am convinced that
what OSWALD. finally set Up we completely agreed upon.

OLTMANS :° "But you were in Haiti on the day of
the assassination.

De MOHRENSCHILDT: "Yes."

OLTMANS said he asked de MOHRENSCHILDT if he were ready
to make a statement. He said the Professor veplied, "Yes, but
never in America. I am be followed. 1 find my house all the
time searched. So I am scared to death. I first must get out -
of the country", OLTMANS said he Called his Dutch television sa-
Perior and was told to bring de MOHRENSCHTLDT, to Holland. As
OLTMANS tells it, de MOHRENSCHILDT had several changes of mind
but finally said he was ready to go. OLTMANS said they drove
to Houston, left de MOHRENSCHILDT' s car there with a man named

David RUSSELL.

(The Washington Star, 31 March 197,]
SFRRET


t aoe

‘won
Be

cow. OG

3 March 1977 2

OLTMANS brought George de MOHRENSCRILDT for meetings
with NOS-TV chief of programming and leading Dutch publisher.
OLTMANS says that de MOHRENSCHILDT had told him on 23 February
"Iwas involved".

{Airgram no, 1261, 10 March 1977, from US Fmbassy, The Hague.]

3 March 1977 i

OLTMANS and de MOHRENSCHILDT eventually arrived in
Amsterdam. There they began a round of talks with Dutch tele-
vision and publishing executives, meanwhile checking with
attorney RUSSELL in Dallas to be sure the manuscript was still
in his office.
(The Washington Star, 31 March 1977.]

S March 1977 2

OLTMANS and de MOHRENSCHILDT drove to Brussels to meet
a friend of the Dutch reporter, a Soviet diplomat he identified
only as KUZNETZOV. The three men chatted at the newsstand of
the Hotel Metropole and de MOHRENSCHILDT said he would go for a
walk before lunch. "He never returned from that walk", said '
OLTMANS .

De MOHRENSCHILDT had left behind all his belongings ex-
cept his briefcase - his pipe, his luggage, and his dirty rain-
coat. De MOHRENSCHILDT took OLTMANS' clean new raincoat instead.
OLTMANS said he put all of de MOHRENSCHILDT’s possessions in an

Amsterdam bank and sent the receipt to attorney RUSSELL in Dallas.

‘The Washington Star, 31 March 1977.] -

7 March 1977 : :

OLTMANS was informed that de MOHRENSCHILDT had returned
to. Dallas. Asked if he thought de MOHRENSCHILDT actually had
returned to the United States, OLTMANS said "I don't think he is
‘

okay". i
[Airgram no. 1261, 10 March 1977, US Embassy, The Hague.]

10 March 1977 (date of message):

~
« rd NOS TV officials indicate that they are watching OLTMANS'
lo?

SECRET


ah)

* \2Ee7

Zee

i = $1 -

story closely, but with some skepticism. They do not pian
to carry story before they check it out. OLTMANS is contro-
versial writer with reputation for getting carried away.

But NOS TV chief of programming says that OLTMANS has had
Dallas contacts since 1964 and has followed the assassination
story closely. ,

{Airgram no. 1261, 19 March 1977, US Embassy, The Hague.]

11 March 1977 H

OLTMANS, who had been cultivating de MOHRENSCHILDT as
a news source and a friend for the past ten years, is the man
who told the House Assassinations Committee earlier this month
about de MOHRENSCHILDT' s decision to tell his version of the
Kennedy murder.

It was this appearance before committee staffers by
OLTMANS on 11 March that prompted the panel to send investigator
Gaetan FONZI to Palm Beach last Monday to try to question de
MOHRENSCHILDT.

[The Washington Star, 31 March 1977.]

“18 March 1977 B «

The mysterious recent history of de MOHRENSCHILDT is
largely attributable to a Dutch journalist named Willem
OLTMANS, who was interviewed by The Washington Star on 18
March.

[The Washington Star, 31 March 1977.]

Week preceding 29 March 1977:
De MOHRENSCHILDT had arrived from Brussels a week before

his suicide with his daughter, Alexandra, to visit Mrs. Charles

TILTON IIT.

New York Times, 31 March 1977.]

29 March 1977 : \

De MOHRENSCHILDT was of sufficient interest to the House
Committee on Assassinations that one of its investigators was in
Palm Beach on Tuesday (29 March) seeking to interview de MOHREN-

SCHILDT when the suicide occurred.
The Washington Star, 31 March 1977.]

SEGRET .


29 March 1977 H

The hody of George de ‘ONPENSCHILDT, a guest at the
historic. oceanfront mansion in suburban Manalanan, Florida,
of Mrs. Charles TILTON III (formerly Nancy Pierson SANDS), was
found by his daughter, Alexandra, in a second-floor study. De
MOHRENSCHILDT apparently placed the muzzle of a .20 gauge shot-
gun in-his mouth and pulled the trigger.

De MOHRENSCHILDT was traced by a House Assassinations
Committee investigator to the Florida address. De MOHRENSCHILDT
had returned to the TILTON home about 2:45 p.m. to learn that
the investigator, Gaeton J. FONZT, had been trying to reach hin.
FONZI had been to the TILTON estate about noon and left word he
would return at 8:39 p.m. to see de MOHRENSCIITLDT. [New York
Times, 31 March 1977; The Washington Star, 30 March 1977 and
31 Mareh 1977] :

De MOFRENSCHILDT, according to OLTMANS, could have been
kidnapped, or have had another "crazy attack" or have gone to
the. Soviet Union. None of these things happened, but OLTMANS
did have a clue to the way de MOHRENSCIHILDT died even before |
the man shot himself.

OLTMANS said "He told me in Europe ‘look, T'1l he dis-
charged at Bishop College in June. I'n 65. My wife ran away.
(They reportedly are divorced now)) [I'm at the end of the line’.
And one day he cane into my room and said, ‘Let's face it, I
only nade up the story (about MS¥ALD) hecause everybody makes
a million dollars off the Kennedy assassination, and I haven't
made anything, so now it's my time. So now you and I know that'."

[The Washington Star, 31 March 1977]

31 “arch 1977 (date of artidle):
Some details of the last months of de “OHRENSCHILDT's
life were provided to The Washington Star in an interview with

Dutch journalist Willem OLTMANS, a

OLTMANS had cultivated de MOHPENSCHILDT as a news source
and was a friend for the past ten years. He~told the House As-
sassinations Committee earlier this month about de ‘AHRENSCHILDT's

decision to tell his version of the Kennedy murder.

Sear


+ \

are

daeminess-ast

4,
e8 - 53 - ec)

OLTMANS' version prompted the panel to send investi-
gator Gaeton FONZI to Palm Beach last Monday (28 March) to
question de MOHRENSCHILDT.

According to OLTMANS, OLTMANS had known de MOHREN-
SCHILDT. for a decade. He knew de MOHRENSCHILDT to be an emi-
gre Russian count, a petroleum engineer, a teacher of French at
Bishop College and a close friend of the OSWALDs. OLTMANS fell
into the habit. of visiting George and Jeanne de MOHRENSCHILDT
in Dallas. two or three times a year.

: In January 1976, de MOHRENSCHILDT wrote OLTMANS that he
was preparing a book [I'm a Patsy, I'm a Patsy] and sent several
pages to the. Dutch reporter. By June the book was completed,
but Jeanne de MOHRENSCHILDT told OLTMANS she was upset when she
read it. She told her husband he would go to jail if it was pub-
lished-because it was about the assassination of Kennedy and men-
tioned names of CIA and FBI agents throughout. :
[The Washington Star, 31 March 1977 - author: Jeremiah O'LEARY.]

1 April 1977 2

A Dutch journalist said he testified [for second time]
under oath [in a close hearing] that a Russian emigrant who ap-
parently committed suicide earlier this week had claimed to be
part of a conspiracy to kill President Kennedy.

The television newsman, Willem OLTMANS, said George de
MOHRENSCHILDT told him the alleged conspiracy involved Texas
oilmen, Cuban exiles, and CIA and FBI agents.

OLTMANS said de MOHRENSCHILDT claimed he was a middle-
man between H. L. HUNT representing Texas oilmen and Lee Harvey
OSWALD. The journalist said he gave the committee “the name of
an FBI official, not [J. Edgar] HOOVER, who might be important.

The Dutch journalist said de MOHRENSCHILDT told him
Cubans had fired at Kennedy at the same time OSWALD did and
said he gave the House Assassinations Committee the name and
picture of one Cuban he believes was involved.

OLTMANS, who testified for more than three hours in a
closed sessions of the House panel investigating the Kennedy

assassination, later declined to tell reporters what evidence

aT

¥
wi



a

c® sae

he had to support the claim.

He said he gave the committee a taped interview in
which a Cuban exile named Loran HALL claims he was offered
$50,000 in the office of ilman Lester LOGUE to kill Kennedy.

In Dallas, LOGUE called the allegation "ridiculous"
and said he would meet with his anvers to discuss suing OLTMANS
for libel.

After OLTMANS testified, reporters asked subcommittee
chairman Richard PREYER (D-N.C.) if he helieved the story. "Ask
me that question again in a few months", PREYER replied, 'Mr.
OLTMANS was very specific on some things which can be corroborated
but not ‘as clear on others". G

The journalist said in at least two news interviews
before his committee appearance yesterday that de MOHRENSCHILDT
wavered between insisting the whole story was true and indicating
he made it up to sept a book. But OLTMANS who is said to be wri-
ting a book on the assassination himself, told reporters after
his. testimony that de MOHRENSCHILDT never told him he had made the
story up.

OLTMANS said de MOHRENSCHILDT mixed socially with Dallas,
oilmen and other wealthy people and became a friend of HUNT a
multimillionaire oilman now dead.

"What Mr. de MOHRENSCHILDT said was that Mr. OSWALD was
acting at his guidance and instructions", OLTMANS said in an ABC
interview. "Mr. de MOHRENSCHILDT indicated that his ties up-
wards were towards H. L. HUNT . . . and downstairs to Lee Harvey
OSWALD". .

In Dallas a spokesman for the HUNT family called de MOH-
RENSCHILDT's claims "the product of a distorted imagination".

[The Washington Post, 2 April 1977 - Associated Press.]

1 April 1977 :
1D The essence of OLTMANS' story is|\that he had been told

of a conspiracy to assassinate Kennedy involving Lee Harvey
OSWALD, the FBI, the CIA, some Texas oilmen, Jack RUBY, a group
of anti-Castro Cubans and a Russian-born Dallas professor named

George de MOHRENSCHILDT. OLTMANS' primary known source was de

SECRET


- 55 -

MOHRENSCHILDT . . . who earlier had disappeared in Brussels on
7 March while negotiating the sale of a book he has written about
the alleged conspiracy.

The manuscript of de MONRENSCHILDT's book, I'm a Patsy,
I'ma Patsy, is in the possession of his Dallas lawyer, Pat S.
RUSSELL.. It purports to tell the whole story of the conspiracy
and, according to OLTMANS, deserifed how de MOHRENSCHILDT con-
sidered himself responsible for OSWALD's actions. 2

“U. S. sources said RUSSELL intends to hold on to the de
“ MOHRENSCHILDT papers. Behind the scenes, officials are waiting
for a decision on whether the House committee will obtain the
documents by subpoena or whether the FBI will seek access to
them by court order.

Rep. Hal SAWYER (R-Mich.) said he was outraged by the
nature.of the OLTMANS testimony before the subcommittee headed
by Rep. Richardson PREYER (D-N.C.) "this is hearsay twice re-
moved", he said vehemently.

Other members of the Congress implied that the value
of OLTMANS' testimony was in doubt since four of the alleged
conspirators are dead: de MOHRENSCHILDT, oil millionaire H. L. %
HUNT, OSWALD, and RUBY. But OLTMANS told newsmen after the
hearing that the committee asked him for, and will get, all the
letters he received from de MOHRENSCHILDT over the past 11 years.

"De MOHRESNCHILDT told me that OSWALD acted at his (de
MOHRENSCHILDTSs) instructions and that he kne¥ OSWALD was going
to kill Kennedy". OLTMANS said. i

"OLTMANS also told the committee:

- That OSWALD and the late H. L. HUNT were "very

close";

- That a Texas geological engineer named Léren HALL

claimed he was offered $50,000 in the office of a Dallas

attorney named Lester LOGUE for the assassination of
Kennedy. :
- That de MOHRENSCHILDT told him he had discussed the
assassination of Kennedy with OSWALD "from A to Z".

OLTMANS said he gave the committee the name and picture

SECRET


oO - 356 - - fy

of a Cuban veteran of the Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba who was
part of the conspiracy. The motivation of the Cuban exile cons7:
spirators for killing Kennedy, according to OLTANS, was their
conviction that the President had betrayed them at the Bay of
Pigs.

[The Washington Star, 2 April 1977 - Jeremiah O'LEARY.]

3 Avril 1977 (date of newspaper article):

In. still another dubious excursion, the committee has

- ert

now labeled a man who not long ago emerged from a psychiatric
ward, George de MOHRENSCHILDT, as a "crucial witness" although
he had just committed suicide. Neither the Assassinations Com-
mittee nor its staff ever interviewed the man, a White Russian
who had befriended the OSWALDs in Texas in 1962.

In fact, House investigators possess little more than
a Dutch television film tape and one tape cassette "allegedly"
containing a conversation between de MOHRENSCHILDT and Dutch
journalist Willem OLTMANS.

In a spate of interviews since de MOHRENSCHILDT's
death Tuesday afternoon, OLTMANS has been quoting him as saying
he was a middleman between Texas oilmen and OSWALD in a baroque
kill-Kennedy conspiracy, which also seems to have included anti-
Castro Cubans and a trucking firm executive.

Curiously, by OLTMANS' account, de MOHRENSCHILDT did
not come up with the story until February -.more than 13 years
after the assassination but only a few weeks after his release
December 30 from the psychiatric unit of Parkland Memorial Hos-
pital. And although OLTMANS quotes de MOHRENSCHILDT as saying
OSWALD took instructions from him, that is somewhat difficult to
square with the fact that the de MOHRENSCHILDTs were in Haiti
at the time of the Kennedy assassination and had been there for
about five months. They told the Warren Commission they last
saw the OSWALDs in April of 1963 and, the fommission found, '
"they never saw either of the OSWALDs again".

(The Washington Post, 3 April 1977 - George LARDNER, Jr}

SECRET
