# 104-10186-10157

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10157

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MINFORMATION REPORT

SINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TOLE MARATEl POO CALDA IRPOrTALIA REAIIDE UNA NALORAl DelASP Of lDA CRILAS BIRLDA MILDiA ESe SPAnIOR Of iDA SEplOTIAGO LATE

18, 0BC SACA 199 NOd TAL RIA URTATDIMIDR ON TATPLALIOS OL MhICH IN ART MANDAS tO dE MERULSUrIZEd pATRON lA prOMIDITAS Dy LaTe.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEX

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/01256-65

SUBJECT "MAYRA" (an allas)

DATE DISTR

18 March 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

(Page 11)

8 July 1964

DATE °* 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. Narch 1965

WaTCh 1 AUSTEO INFORMATION, SOURCE GRAINES ARE OFIO REPORT NO. ON COMENT IS TENTAINE,

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information

from the records of this. Agency.

first checking with this Agency.

1. "HAYRA" Is the secretary of Guillerno ARASTAGUIA, chief

of the NI Section (The Department of Technical Operational

Support) in

the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General

Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

2.

green eyes.

She has a small, straight nose; a small chin and

mouth;,a thin face and thin lips; a long, thin neck; and even

teeth.

Headquarters Comment

1.

The records of this Agency

information

"MAYRA."

reveal

no additional identifiable

3

2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

ARHY

REP

CINCLANT

Note: field distribution inducared bi "$".)

I NAv

CINCSO #

1 AIR

I&NS

INSA

XAKY

IFBI 2

INFORMATION REPORT

AH. C/CA

AHL C. 10

HE ER

HE LIDS

15-2

AL/RSA

INFORMATIONERERO R

LIEXCANADAL

BLE BRITISHLI!

LX 2515

NO PROJECTCAMSIU

CSCI- 316/01256-65

SID/AN

TOrMONiC 8 (1). MEI (1), CI1.

RID 1

L1A:90N

COORDINATINGTEL LMO

BS: LD: s*k

3

2

4/BR.

---

## Page 2

5

4

3

2

MINFORMATION REPORTAN

INFORMATIONARERORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT "MAYRA" (an al108)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduca

REPORT NO.

CSCI -316/01256-65

DATE DISTR. | 18 March 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

(Page 11)

8 July 1964

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE &

washington, D. C.

DATE ACO. March 1965

FELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

A former. Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service unt1l April 1964.

Headquarterg Comments

The following report 18 one of a series containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

I. "MAYRA" 1s the secretary of Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, chief

of the MI Section (The Department of Technical Operational

Support) in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General

Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

2.

"MAYRA," whom source believes to be a Cuban citizen,

was

born between 1910 and 1945,

is about five feet eight

1 nches

tall,

weighs approximately 120 pounds,

and has a thin build.

She has a white Complexion with red cheeks, blond hair, and

green eyes.

She has a small, straight nose; a small chin and

mouth;" thin face and thin lips; a long, thin neck; and even

Headquarters Comment

1.

The records. of this Agency reveal no additional identifiable

Information

"MAYRA."

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

STATE

DIA

ARMY

NAVY

REP

CINCLANT

CINCSO #

AIR

I&NS

INSA

XXxX

I OCR

IFBI 2

(Nolo: field distribution Indicorad by "#"*)

INFORMATION REPORT

INBOR MATIO NAREPORT

WILS/CA

1SI/4IA

LELCANADALI

ILX 2515

HEKSLADRI

CI/R&d

SABRITISH

WH/CIRR

—152

I/WASH BAT

NO PROJECT ANNIE

RID/AY

CSCI -316/ 01256-6

TUTAL WH/C 8 (1), HE 1 (1), CIA, RID 1

LIAISON

BS: LD: suk

LOL RET

5

3

41BR

---

