{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F.

KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

104-10298-10260

ay

Gael, Contact Division
ATES) Sayyort Branch

Gatct, Bostea Office

Peeiis!

t the Ba
,  Bevolutiensrie Do
ag the Daxccratic Revolutionary Front of Guba.
AG thet tine the appropriate eseurity

sunjest.

igh,

A961 © proseat, 19 &t., Ane

1950 © 1961, 630 H.R. #2 Ferrece

1998,
\p Banso Agricola
1939 -© 1945, Cansdiea Bank of
+ VST. 19395

1. 0s 19 Copterbar. 1962'to, Wore eentanted by It, Cladstons
. Gounotl of Cuda (Goneelo
Thie exilo Cuban organisation was formerly mow

thant, Via,

Co 4S) azar.
OW? 223 77%
vo HE TL
2h Geptenber 1562

: 0 Comisil’s (G9) Project for Gobotag> of Guban Coastal —

0

Ue nod contacted McCarthy, on

alien, 60 early 1963 inorder ‘to explore his FFI potential on Ouban affairo,
8 vero follewed and cocurity

Feoords sabsequently indicated that the FBI hed no edjestion te our interregition
of ths :

Oriente

6 Barecoa, , Gaba.
‘Agrived im W lest tine 2) Aug 60, PAA, at Minci International
9, Brookline 46, Maas.

Bia tether 10 livieg

Gaited Fruit Company (Central Prostea)

‘ 19S9.-© 1997, aa Beok of Bova Goviia (Cansdion)

-1931 © 1933, Havens Caiversity, Busines Administration
1930 © 1931, College, didn't. finish Gas to fothar’s eickness
Sigh Gebool Gretunte, Facry University Acadeny,

Griente Province

WH -F7/


| a - eRe

3. During our rseting (19 Geptovber 1962) Mr. MoCarthy anked uo if our
Agency eould osaist his organisstion-in tie purahaee of @ eubsarine, Thoreupca
Br, HoGerthy oxplainsd that he and the delegate of the ORO in Hew York City hove
Govised tha folleving plsn for costal eabotage in Cuba

tho of
t ° wleoioa of the cubsmrins will -bo to carry Quben stin divere or frogun vho,
th on the moiniand, will eontust suhotage to som or

~

targets) ist

Part of @stanso (Port feetlities a4 eager all) &
™

i Kaveas © inrvo-Gastle (Inceuing shije elev Gein to Gaet pilot basta t
: : ‘8% Morro Cabtle © objectives sabotage to thoes  &
: ahipe 12 they carry cdlitary ogaijcsut, ote.)

rely. u ; satercat:

au je -Alzo, oinso tha brother's elstercinelew ie a telaphoie operetor
in Foumto be ona be alerted to the Gastro regize's activities in the area, te
eed this for rhat it umy bo worth ones Moorthy injected this bit of informatica
Sato tho conversation in esutoxt vith his eadstags plac, Later, when wo probed
for tcre D

i
i
E
i
'
i
F
|



I Fo quarried Mafarthy 2 to the longwenga objectives of bis plea, %b-

other wre what doos the CRT hope to eccomplish, His ancror was, “The

people nood to hava their econfiéencs rostered, ‘They nood comathing to boys for.

They dave loot faith ta \the-U3-and fool that the U3 will do nothing for

Cubea
thor

‘plight, Bach act Snvolving Cuba ia paises south to mouth. Buch an operation

Oe rye vertinad would ivr the moyls tomtbine to ive tar. 3 ooula

Qoerease opposition on the alent. Ry oaineil hae coucliudadowregardicss of tbe
-hera:the eabotegs. aight inflict upon Cuban netionalismeam mist ect now. Sow

ie.tha ties, All exilo grocys feel the saxo: way, &] plas to mow to only one
ust be

other mpswer of) tie CR, At mut non Alrite. Te am t be set up under a
part.

cover, 1 aust divorce myself from tt even though I am willing to take
Through 6 thint party tn iHent, vho dove aot knov about the plan,
the necessary manpower, Wo need somone to oyarate tha cub. to
erev. Ro-armments, Ue nact a-scall ub siniiar to the

during World Var IX, -Tho-sub poula bo working on andersater e0a inveatigat:

No tiog with the 02. Gevweroseyt ere dsetro’ cx snoacoary, Dut Go ured hele to grt

the project. started, cspeotally to obtain the subcerine,*

8. Presumbly this fofercstica will to tecnsaltted to the covert chops

“for thotr possibile interest. If followup dats ia requasted ve chal be
‘be forward 18. - In the aoanties, wo should appreciate exy'gasésnce that

o Por 00.4(3) erwdst pleaco ese Béotea £1195.

: @uians 2, woes

AGhowantns

LYM PU
