# 104-10239-10032

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10239-10032

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

28 February 1065

WH/C 85-83

LN-8178

SIBZIORANDUM HON:

SUBJECT

:

Chiel, kE/Calna

General: AMSIUG/1 Debriefing Roport 4258

Speckle: Chinese Commuilat Activlly la

Havans, Cuba

1. Ou one occasion, exact dale unrecalled, the Chloese.

Communlal Embassy in liabana sent the PUll a letter which il

ulabed dallvored to the Salvador Communalat Farty ln timo fos

& Central American Communit Party Congress elther going on

or about to start. The letter was sent by Pulit to the DGi

(Cuban intelligence service) lor delivery.

when AbBIUG,1

Bale ho had no courier going out to tiexico lor several days,

he was ordered categorically to send a courter speciadly to

Mexico with the letter as soon as possible. Mo did.

2. No Chinese Cormunist ever came to the DGI

boadquartors or olfices, but on one occasion when the Chinese

Conmuniet karty wined to send funds to Guatemala for YON Susa

al Caso Aslatico, NAMUG/l and "NOEL" (Cuban Intolligence

alicer) were sent to:the Chinega Coramunist Embassy du pick

up Ust 10, 000 for dollvery to YON. *hy the Chinere were given

YUN the money, Ailin UGll dld not snore. This incident and tho

dispatch of the apecial courler were the only such cagos of

which ANdlUG/l quew In his DEl experionce.

03

Lienjamin i totts)

C/wil/C/MR/J

Distribution:

2- Addressee

8-FI (19-5-1, 19-8-3, 10-5-7)

1-NH/C/ESEC

1-IVH/C/RR/OS Chrono file

1- Mary/bernice

1-AMMUG/1 Production

-...

---

