# 104-10173-10169

## Page 1

104-10173-10169

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIENED AT CIA MCNDQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT CONMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MENGERS

FILE TITLE/NUNBER/VOLUNE:

KUINGe LOUiS

Des FLE

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

28

DATE

RETURNED

81126

REVIEVED BY (PRINT NAME>

LESHE WIRELMAN

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Lane wigemon

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

4-00000

CHUCICO FICTD OFFICE

a september Lot

F: 9-40-40

N0 CERT

20:

KUREn, Luts

4437 75

3225

A14 septenber 1970

NO CONTACT.

sernonks

V.. R. Sando; Chief, Chicago

'Office

---

## Page 3

SOURCE STATUS CHANGE

99040

TO:

D's/services Division

. (в)

(0.)

Control

Security Llaloon Officer

(e)

CodIng

1. Luts Kutner

A.99040

437: 758

OS;

Attorney

Chlsaso, Illtnois

has been placed in an

Inạct

following reason(s):

stug in the rites of thie offsed for the

Deceasedu

Rotired and is not known to be employed by another organization.

Has trensferred and to employed by e

(Hей.0780

No longer of interest

OMMENTS:

EYES ONLY ENVELOPS A322S/ DESTROYED, 3-10:70%

NO CONACT

Use this for

only then Headquarters her not previously been informed by

another comunication

exchenge/ in status of

SecurIty. Checked indiytaun

Ose e carbon copy of this form as a routins slip when trensferring flles or

a contact to another field office.

Chicago

SWS impson;

3-10-70,

cc:

2856

SECRET

---

## Page 4

Atto

94040

sited; Contect Dirolor

support (Richardsoa)

cases, Cuene Office

саве

136018

6 march 1962

C1-62-291

sage a To treat blast March. It certitaly

IS F

to him and has gotten to know kitner veryally

А, 90010

2000

JIAO

15.

DEMONS 135

mean 7

---

## Page 5

F: 7904.

Chlet, Contact Divislos

For:

support.

cases, asceso omes

Caso 36018

21 Feb 62

da -62-250

199040

2. I had an opportunity to disis: Lute Kutser

with a rollable and discreet source on 16 Peb 62 wh

nows futner vell. His sosesamant of Kuther le aè

follors.

2. Kutper 10 a highly intelligent, over-stimilated

Indilvldual..

Ho le Inclined to accept storloo as being

true without confirning. He exsserates and seeke to

embesatish:

he vull use overy trick and angle. "in the book"

and anyone ho

can to further his errorts. If he does a

Paror for evone hevents a favor in turn Conner or later.

He looks fos publicity and recognition and will use aurone

to accompllab this.

and, scores to rose i did on tortion:

Robert P. B. Lohman

RIEL: GO

nu tag gan

& Coneral)

CONS DENTIAL

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

Ellet, Contact Diviatoni

ATTH: Support Breach (Richardoon)

aler, Oleoro Meld orace

cane 36o1s

0-61-1 acrobe: 2901

1 791040

I bave learped through a localibank that late kul

at on accourt there until September 1960, when it vancel

out. A for monthe prior to the closts hitner vas trydog te

barron sio,0ooi the bank vould not loan It to bin, setting o

Isnit of $2;000.

trial Pitarride.

cal friend in @ large department store I

17:

Roger

went acti

ties

• Little tenon, one checkiende

"forser dudent nened tute fyrtre

employed en

assoclate attorney att

Berhas

degree

e1ther

bachelor

according to Untver

or "lav."

trog to lear

more ebout numer

R.P.B. LOHMANH

iPB Lohmam/ esc

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 7

5: 49040

cries, Chicago Office

Chief, Contact Division, Support Branch

New Care. 36,018

ReS CHO-61-873, 12 July 1961

20 Bun 1963

R010

3-ени - 499040

2• 10/3 1's Interested in Lute' Kutner and the Commission for

Intornational Due Process of Law

and requested be send

I them Tor

rovley the material you attached with your memorandum of 12 July

1961 (CHI-61-873) •

70/3 would like you to furnish throurh cleared sources;

biographie data and back-round information on Kutner and his

organization. They would like to knor what orianization has

iven him a grant as mentioned in your menorandum.

Regues tor disires.

that rutner not be made aware of

any agency interest in mam at this time.

please furish information responsive to this case

by oo/A series reporting to expedite handling. Many thanks.

EL M. ASHCRAPT

AJRI chardson/y?

cca Index,

copy file *

8461(11)

---

## Page 8

CONFIDENTIAL

19:40:10

net; Peri

al Saurity Divisica, o8

satic Contact servio

3B Deptember 1970

aracter to este pertenta co

chaula te

lactacrió pos poromatis

00+0-40-99-9798

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 9

+75-9-90-140

CONFIDENTIAL

(anon Filled In!

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

DATE

i3 Auguat 1968

• TO -

Director, Domestic Contact Service

SUBJECT SOMER, LANd

FILE NO: 437 753

NO CONTACT

is made to your request for security checks on the subject

person as a source of intelligence infornation.

This is to inform. you that the necessary checks have been completed with

the following resülts:

No additional information has been obtained, except for such

biographic inforuation as indicated below or in the attachment;

Information had been recelved that subject was Investigated with

favorable results in

c.

Certain Information has been received and appeare in the attach-

ment which your Division will wish to consider in determining

the extent and level of your use of Subject.

It to to be noted that our checke vere made on the basta of the identifying

information you furnished or in an attachment to this memorandum.

Should it be dis-

closed that this Information 1s erroneous or that Subject 1s known by c different

hame, this Division should be notiried. immediately.

Remy

•Attachment:

state Passport Repor

Note:-

1968 which repested Subject's highly indiscreet remarke regarding

his association uith this Agency.

AuthorizatIon/ SECRET tia titiadake telecon on 2 July 1968.

LANSE REFIE TO ELE

• NO CONTACT

FORM

8-85

1124a

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 10

4-00000

ICONFIDENTIAL

KUTNER, Lila

9437: 750

26 JuLy 1968

on 16 July 1960, the current passport Tile of tula KEn

revloved at the pansport: Ort 109, Departent of state.

a sumary of the Laration contained thereiny"

Births

9 Juno 1908 at Chicago, Illinois; verified by birth

certificate.

PASSPORT ISSUED:

At Chicago, Illinois, on 9 May 1967, 1H930222, for a

period of six wooke to vialt Switzerland, Poland,

Austria, Hong Kong,

Trance, Italy and Japan for the

purposa of büsiness:

Permanent addr

Ocoupation!

3180 Lako shore Drive, Chicago,

ILlinots.

Attorney.

CONFIDENTIAL

FinniNg Rad

07612181:03020

---

## Page 11

5-2-C-2-R-1

(then: Pilled" in)

DATE 2L-AUgUEL 1958

ISONINES TO

a rector

Dosestic Coatact Sortice (Services DIvIsIon).

sorry Ceck Carletion. Us citizen:

DOS $ 10-30 darca 1 July 1965

Overstions Memo 88-64

I. Atiached isa notice of security chec; completion on the individual

listod belms. The ls sorreria Subject's exploitation as a source of intell-

¿scace infarmation, but the level of classified Informtion shich my ba át-

vulged 1e left to your discretion.

2. As Indicated in the attachment, the as provided a Summary of derog-

atay Infonation for you to consider in deteruining the level, of classified

disclosure. It will be canardca by Seriices Diviston by en "Eyes Only" new-

recoin which will bear a ninger icentico to the one markes on the lover lett

cate c tue copletica:: Please we this nunber to laentify a Sumary vita

an divident

TacOs atrects that the field chier alter mains the Information, vill

use it to establian the level of classtfied disclosure, if eng, and to provide

quidsuce to tke Coutee Socialist in his relations with the source. He miy

at his descretion disclose the navure of the cerostory information to the Con-

act Soccialist. Me field chief, after mostns an appropriato notation in the

open files of the carice

wits respect to the security status of the individual,

will then either desary

the lucaration or place it loa seeled emclope waich

al chit the careet:

To be opened by the Chief or Acting Calef Fee Feld

office.

Dingies , there

gent

PLEASE RITER

SO, NO CONTACT

GROL? I.

SXCLUDED FRO'I AUTOMATIC

DOSTICRATITC APD DECLASSIFICAEIO

S-E-C-R-Z-P

---

## Page 12

TO: SERVICES (THORNE)

3-3-0-9-85

io-Fillal Io)

I CACO FIELD OTICE

F2-20 August 1968

•362

Moon: 30-64

liter!

tire

copies;

irrigaler

ve l

teut

35.л

11 60

Lorras

moden Miet

vill

Latv

umber ident!

be as premial n

a rarers

solarsinine the tonici

canettien

to The

one mizolen tie dive

Mier

20703

uncalatch

Elm

cin

rat lon

ead!

lei digomein

11CS

denitory

on eppropiar

verty 858

1. ACT

Atrecinn

PLEASE REUTRIER EYES

оних 310. -- 322504

NO CONTACT

8/22/68.

NO CONTACT.

S DESON

mati co direct

SASSIN ANO DIA MUS

6, 5-0.0.00

---

## Page 13

C-0-1i-F-I-D-j-H-T-I-A-1:

F. 9-99:40

DATE. 5 JUlY 1968

IEMORNADUM FOR

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

REFERENCE-

CHICACO FIELD OFFICE

id Hoc. Dental

Security Division has. dented

".-.-..

ad coc clearence on the basis of. derogatory inforation.

Security checks will be completed.

CC: CHIEF,

PIELD OPICS

Whorne: pet

SECURITY, HESSAGE

GROUP. I

EXCLUDID FRO: LUNATIC

DUNGRADING-AND DECLASSIIICATIQN

C-0-H-F-1-D-5-*-8-1-A-L

---

## Page 14

2 8 HAY 1963

I: BUDÜRCTE LAST NAME

KUT NER,

3.. ALIABES

FuLL:!

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

FIRST NAME - MIDOLE NANE

luis.

A 29040

NO.

AND PLACE OP MATH

9 Tung 1908/Chicago, Illinole.

COTIENNE

Present

1431 Ridge Avenue - Evanston, Tii1no1a

437095

• [ CONTINURO

"1930

-1927

Present

Present

1929

0/o Sharp,

"Solter &

Hutohinson. (Law firm)

Attorney (Own law fIrm)

Chicago Crime Conteston

Washington, D. C.

105 West Adama Street

Chicugo, 1ll1no1s

Chicago, illinolo

1930

'EDUCATION (HIgh'

Meier Of

Chicago Public Schools

Univerel ty of Chicago

BA

O CONTINUES

• noutones гект

TION" INCLUDING FÜLL NÄMICI

ZENSHIP DATA ON PARENTE

ANO CHIL•HEN

subject was appointed Consul, Ceneral

for Gatemala

In Chicago

Hesd, World Habeas Corpus Organisation - 105

rest Adams Street

232:3

08 SUN 2008

Chicago,

Illinois

D CONTINUED

14.681

---

## Page 15

14-00000

F 9-90.40

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandur

DATE:

Directos, Domestic Contact Service

29: May 1968

CHI-574÷68

PROM

chief, chicago outce

sUbjecT: KUTNER, Luca

-PLE- 37758

REP:

Yöuï Memo did 27 May 68

In checking with the Guatemalan Consulate, we find that

Lute kutner hes not been Consul General for over the years.

We

were told that he is still in Chicago, but is not connected wich

the consulate.

PSON

SWS Impson es

file: Kutner, luis

CROUE 1' -

Ircluded froz automatie.

dimgrading and

Dealassification '

---

## Page 16

SECRET

Chlot, Chicago Pold Ofr1oo

DIscotos, Donatio Contact Service (Servicos Divieion)

27 May 1966

XE- 37138.

B)

CHx-347-68

C)

Headquartors

Amorandas datod 17 lay 1968

Pleage

accapt our apologles. for

C1x-493-68, untob es thought luplied

Isoluded "Byce, Only". 4322)

Thank

your nathod of handling the

acordance with exliting

BCOUT

and

confusion.

20i

ir the

with subjoot, alb

of

tbe: Suisian

reported In

bad

been

bo at111

also

be

alpinterpretad. your

rinsfer af your tile

Massuranse concerning

bich is in atriot

inceroly regiet th

to estatain contaet

somenta to procese 16.

Infartation

50 /Auguat 196

Indioated that Sublest

oral Cor Quatenala. Do you non shoth

sapadity? if thie te true, wo soall

the Director'g

approval to mistain coutcor.

JAMES R. MARPET

SECRET

Debitat 570

ibiregrasing. int

886/85:1112° M98

---

## Page 17

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

3SBRL7

TO

:

Director, Domestic Contact Service

Aten: Services.

(Thorne)

FROM

Chief, Chicago Oftice

• DATE:

'21 May

• 1968:-

CHI-547-68

SUBJECT

KUTNER, Lute

REFS:

CHI -493-68

Eyes Only $3225

Your Memo did 17 May. 68

1.

Re your memo concerning transferring coples of Eyes Only

security suartes, we have not sent this yes Only #322S summary

to the

office, nor a copy. of it.

Intesponse to

their request (ce to Chi,

204-68 to Director,

DGS; ded 29 Apt.

1968, para.?), ve only sent coptes of material in Kutner's file.

folder, which included a machine copy of for No. 1124 (and covering

ditto memo) which merely Indicated there is an Eyes Only on Kutner,

Our Eyes Only aitertal 1o kept In a separate locked file draved in

the vault under strictest security measures.

Byes Only materfal

Is never kept in Individuals file folders,

We know name identification should never be forwarded

with Eyes Only security summartes and not only have never done

this in the past, but take extreme precautions that it will never

occur in the future.

Side lettin

seeson for

Swimpson sey

ceo Services (VThorne

File:- KUTNER, Luls Po

Côrres

TIN

Paolarsiticatica

---

## Page 18

5=9.90-40

30.91:

REP

Gises, Cascajo Plald Offico

dractor, Docintlo Contact Serrica

no, no dile

180) 00-493-66

Da) dyes only iszes

17 Hay 1863

These cust be fontarded to focurity

SAVES R. VURPIX

hones

---

## Page 19

14-00000

RETAMN OR DESTROY

235M00

Pield 08f1c0

Chilet, Chicago Offico

reconcy Lato Kitres of Chicaro and "wosid Rebeat

Corpua Orcontracion Clatno CLA Fluenclas

Your Ncco WAS=204-68 dated 29 Aprtl 1968, above subject

03 Jay 1968-

(41-493-63

also that thero la sjos caly Inforancion on him (Index do. 3225).

thich resulted la a lo coatact specification on 8/10/62.

S. H. SIMPSON

Attachs:

File!

Kutner, Lis Folder

Effy to Some T

5-7-68

---

## Page 20

9040

CONFIDENT AL

Cata?, Pardorsal SorTIty DavIdIon, Os

7' septaster 1962

Lute - Appolntment do Conoul deseral far Quatemalo la sticago

1. Our Chicago Piela oprice bas alerted un to an artiele wilch:

appearea in the Chicago, American on 28 August 1962; stating that

Bubject had been nominated for a lobel priso for hia vork on "liter

national Babess Corouo."

On 29 August 1962, another article in the American corered

subsoct's appointment as Consil Coperal for Quateila la Gaicago.

A a tire pa tara, to vason 20 dies abould be.

B. M. ASECRATT

viborne: gie:

7/L

---

## Page 21

irrinaire in →

SITED STATES GOVr.KNMEN

Memorandum

*Chief, Contact Division

Acta:

Index (Thorne)

FROM : Chief, Chicago Pleld Office

suajecT: Luis Kurner

CONFIOENTIAL

„DATE: 30 August 1962

CHI-62-974

I. "An article appeared in the Chicago American 28 Aug 62

stating that Kutner had been noulnated for a Nobel prize for bis

work on "International Habeas Corpus".

2

On 29 August 1962 another article in the American

corered Kutner's appointment as Consul General for Quatemala In

micago.

R.P.B.L./ew

R. A

hmann

Security

Luis Kutner

Folde

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 22

14-00000

TO

SENDER WILL NECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

CONFIDENTIAL

SECK.,

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

- David Wilbank

ACTION

• APPROVAL

COMMENT.

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE:

INFORMATION:

• PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGMATURE.

Remar

- Roted zi der

ру вич рит сві

pe Luio Kutuer

Me derog fi

'FOLD: HERE TO

FROM: NAME: ADDE

DATI

NO -027

ICASSIFIED

Usa previous edition

SheRET

---

## Page 23

14-00000

EYES ONLY

10:..

chief, Contact Division, op

SUBJECT:

CONFIDENTIAL

41540)

YES OIL S O MAR 1962

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

'FROH:

25 tarch. 3062

Chier, Personnel Security Division,

KumaR, Luis: -

1/35-3.77.59

2021600

Reference Is sade to your request for a security clearance on the subject

persor as

a potential source of intelligence information.

The necessary checks have

been copleted with the folloving results:

No rattle terroration he been brandi exe for chet.

o. @ Intormation has

been received that Subject was Investigated with.

favorable results in

c.

Sara try try sente on an ere in the the elent

which your Division

will wish to

the extent

and level öf

2.

It is to be noted that our checks. were made on the basis of the identifying:

Information you furnished or in an attachment to this memorandum. . Should it be dis-

closed that this information ls erroneous or that subject is known by a different name,

this Division should he notified Immediately.

chief, Personnel security Division

Attachmen

Saismary

NO CONTACT

# 3225

18 APR:962:

EYES. ONLY

EYES CMLY

. 1124

1 MOY 38

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 24

14-00000

F99040

5 Fabriary 1960

SECRBT

TRIENERO

CHISE, CHICADO TOSLO OFFICIE

TRON THOSE (THORE)

"CASTS 36028

4. 99040

CONÚ IOOISO LOEMAN/CHORNE TELECON 2 YEERUARY IDE2, RE IUS RUSER; OS

HAS TENURD OUR REQUEST TOR AD HOC CUBARANCE ON BASIS OF FBI REPORT CONTATIUIO

ERIOUS DEROGATORY INVORMATION, MORBOVER, FIT HAS A CURRENS

INTEREST DI SUBJECT

AND REQUESTS NO CONTACT UNASONVER.

A SURAT VIL IS PORTAOO.

?

COS RICHARDSON

NO.!

BECRET

---

## Page 25

sair

24:19

Pichados

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

QUDITETE LAST NANE, FiRST NAME. MIDOL& NAME

KUTNER:

Lils

FULL NAME OF

DATE AND FLAG

0!!.10

ATH. CITIZENGNIP

99040

NO

"3. DATR AND PLACE OF DIRTH

10 Jun 03"- Chicago, Illrots

CITIZENENIP

Priescat

1431 Ridge Avenue- Lanston, Il21no1s

O CONTINURO

1930

1927

Present

1929

vatcaso Crime Conitssion

Chiceto, I211no18

Chicago, Illinols

Urante

22: У

Tunicaso Pubfie Schools

-University of Chicago

3A-1930/

O CONTINUTO

ON PARENTS AND: CHILORE

JAN 1962

O CONTiMURO

полн 150

Use

PARVIOUS

---

## Page 26

4-00000

SEGRET

AhA!

WIS KUTHER

INVIS NITRES

105 best didass Streat

Chicago, Illinois

fast.

1401 Ridge ironio

Evanston, Dil-ots.

BUS TESS'T

subject in on Attorney

subject to also witt the lan sire oft

1237295 - Sharp, Salter and Hutchinson, Tashinston, D. C.

•Subject 1a also head of

145627 - Comilegion for International Dos Pee, 1, H

Chicago, Illinot

2: 7/24/67.

INITIALE

ACTIVATED

DATE 23 MAY 1403

---

## Page 27

Crrtisl

9-90-40

1:0-211-99

2 JUly 1963

tsuni Adioma Coaaus. C33

an noruiaas

apasyinirestot, Dos

ncsa dia, ay bullding

2208

sJulg 1905:

Counet Coucel

DvT.

Laosti /1leo

---

## Page 28

14-00000

TRANSMITTAL SHIP

TO:

Director/DeS

ROOM'NO:..

BUILDING

aị C

A cops is included for dicoribution

to in, Houston/Goreral Counsel's

offico - in you are inclirça to

do so.

FROM:

ROOM NO.

Viro

BÜILDING

NFEB 50

---

## Page 29

nc5802N712Z

an' simas ever the is

INITED STATES 'GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

¡Director, Doricotic Contact Scivice

-311-68

DATE: 2 July 1968

Field: Osyce.

sunfret: World labean Corpus Centers Worldwide

REFERENCE: 11S-204-68, 29 April 1968

145627

A 99040

1. At home 30 June /1068, Contact Speciallet

5-8461°

of the lashington Picla offsec, recetved a lone Zistanc

telophone call fron lula Kutne-derd of the

International Due Process of lay (so Worla Inscas Corus) o

105 lost Adar Circus, Chicago, Illinois:

• As caiqüerters has

been infored, Oakley hes reicived two letters fron Kutner

since their encounter i

unanswered.

120 April 1963; both are.

Thcre was one telephone conversation in the Interim;

T lay retured kutner's call of about a weck corlier

but it was merely a noncoittal reference to pepers Kuther had

wa1led and

had not yet received.

2. 30 June kurner asked hother, "yes or no", cIA vould

consider funding any of the worla Hepcas Corpus Centers wnich

are proposed worla wide.

replied that he'thought 1t

haa been made clear thet CIA could not engage in such projects

and; furthemore, that such an interest would be hermfül to the

project"..

Kitner reiterated that he would consider it most

helpful.

3. It should be recalled that, while

thought hè

was derint ive on the necation of rinancial ald in the converse.

tron of 26

Information on Kutner which appeared later. Accordingly he was

careful not

Le cuggestea en coproachito the Department of State as nore i

appropriate. Voreover, he did not rule out the possibility of

Kuner appears to are hord. In the conversetion 30.

June he traicated he night be in lashinston soon and would lure

nto teleto

egaln, about the Departent of state and about

Washington-based law Mins unich night support the estcolishnent

Editatin as

csesglar.=s

£E=195.. 40.0194

COXFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 30

4-00000

Pare 2

wL5-311-68

? July 1968

oí a loria zebeas Corous Center in tils city: Presumably such

Centers would be statied by retiring pressigious jurists and

attorneys sad lay professors: fair

ais not cbsolutely.

rule out carcect because 1s copers huther Fight have sosething

worthwale he with soncho caccinate his conspirators wrge

ana Include CLA Out. In the teleanose conversation Ockley said

not once but carice that ary approaches scould be to state and

the law fraterity and that he, Carley, could be nothing sore

thian percorolly sympathctic.

ce: cnicago Held office

08

---

## Page 31

14-00000

lorid Mascos Corres

1007 9-29.

35 Houstoz, General Counsel

T007 1Q

?...

2205

4 June 1958

should respond.

Carroll Delarey

---

## Page 32

14-00000

HORIO POLLY

• CONTRIE

Gues

•A:

= л..

32.

- 03;3

WALD

JORPUS

Conamission for Eniesactional Dize Probess 0E Lavs

105.W. Adams Sticot, Chicago, Illicois, G0S03 U.S.A.

orsing a lackd Plateas Corpus...

"the dotisme dirren cirlization und

SIR NINATOS STENCIA CHURCHILL

moraly bind linice de intalina

an wise ma to by the

HOW 1444 44,4941

Waris, stRaig Darline commitment eno

Т06.4941

Court

sarongs apprent algy del besidie sec anal consta

JUSTICE NILLLÁD S. BRI

MAN IR Unued Sties Supreme Court:

13y

Treaty-Fourth

1 9: 6 S

TrIFPHONE

ST:0 2-1940

AISA CODE 212

Chairman

VIS-KUTHER

rico Charmien

VNi Chaman, Tensite

СЛ М. С. Р.КАММАМ"

PRECUTIVE GOI

Poing, Deceased

RE: WORLD CENTERS OF HUNAN RIGHTS

AND. !

TORED HIBEAS CORPUS

WORLD ASSEMBLY

. FOR

HUMAN RIGHTS

Dear ir Houston and Mr. Oakley:.

Following up

on ny previous

letter on suggested WORLD CENTERS OF HUNAN RIGHTS;

I. should like to submit the following to

accelerate the formulatión of a program anent WORLD'

HABEAS CORPUS and the WORLD CENTERS FOR "HUMAN

RIGHTS.

Anent our

purposeful talks in Washington [with AR, OAKLEYl

With reference to the many problems of Human Rights,

as promised by. the UNITED NitIoNs charter and the

UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUNG RIGHTS, there is

great need for dynamic private foundation support

for forld regional studies and discussions to focus

public attention on some of the concrete issues

rematies to the rights of man and the ligament of

implement

these rights.

CONFERENCE ON RUMS RIGHTS in

through May 13;

TELERAN

IRAN LApril

I96S1,

at which COlFERENCE ai

--dicineri was leveled against governments controlled

by Communist persecution and ideology,

as committing

violations of Articies 1 through 25,

BLESSES DECLARATIOY OF TEL RiGHTS and 20

colazaadcs was sponsored by the UNITED ORGAVIZATIONS

07

HOEY PROS CENTRAL AND EASTERY EUROPE, ReGimitered

in Paradelpaia, Peissylvania.

---

## Page 33

rh.r.tttl.lh twa

"Yru si: rir paraoal

p-y.,900.99i0 2995 /u fe113

ateo Gaanant

•T 1900

..11

Pitdne dis drgiat

Mar.wa

«1 ano

Iarast

and'is

tinG

liiries

anu

1aw

HeLIIN TT D4LYHLN

19 141 19111041

cepl sour invilation.

Chlef.luniceil

Kansmila,

•WVONED ILNNTAS

horiou: 1u

Tomas

"somia, Mlsstcis

RINCIN

Th6 mrit:.

1i20

„ Orirdy

4:%0.81

Mit

Eurs

ns.

sccurily

irdis-

3c=

WORKRABMAS COL PUS

"Hl's in this cruntes

n this poncralion. arom by destirio ritor era:

'choleris

Ahe walihnien on the mair uf'unid discioni.

TOAN D: M:NN0:121

¿'"'Pic bjnis for, an nrucrid morid ii taly".

•EAliENAKREN

o le unirossad cerrcioon in de deodf tuman di his or do, aiedist iur.morid

eoslas, in moriel miiose Bhe 1o

repcronoed m'humgry

eaino femy the probe miso serebites o m'nce

DAC

12.0.1.11

nans

min! lãy

ariu shigis

mgtmg Aainro gnesier fae 89000y Termisg

m moln Yunill Degrngrer pue

tue refore ue gortilr enenddniso

dios, dourman permon'isi sle lugán sn iluvieir réscílie

Nare 1001s 1111l

Mịt ou sims tu

ccalo do OnoewCeran aao decoaesonias

QUINCH

ine, The ductis secisl mny orvefen

ratier than a

Pi ciid

rusicó d'ound,ilirn dincralusi lláriiré Lum Sciós

Faasic

ui4nre0t. 11

puf.

n41l 1e31.C4.

pnterauruer

Sioelirim, Siedon

. "nre

Gorcinment

1S7 MH

H4 No

rigr.ty of de cürity,

C. Mrulondean,

Ionumy of:Turennl 11a.

e'In" bebsit 'or'!

rrqnidlint Sialder,

Song pronea ia bnnr a cho

Tinrénncolirhics Jnssle

'Uast'Polierlocgartement

Dre: Drpartemrat

NIC.SN

mar

VORS HURTCET

Scerciueio

cải og ngg

Fraiion andiminzore of ehe

agulsned

crrocead

:A movement'such'ns lont:

COLATS'

:1.

coni cea C gocn sa oan pro si hai cote hat nei o

WorLD HAUtAs'Corpus emerges ai tho righit lime. in the history öf

mith the pic toe le te phing aois of prowte ohe mie pioud

3:

VORLO HADEAS CoRPus is a forcetempied by tho Chaner and

Iniversal Dielaration of Human Riclitsiand recounizes:i

jalus ofe izangdel i hanicr iel cour cour at abegiua

for individuals and groups in a world socialy.

WORzO HARLAS Coxpus ropudiaies arbitary power and is devored. t0

tho forcc'of the sulc'of law.'

WORLO HARLAS CorPus" can ba the, phenominon of leveraso ia ini

rional sociál iconírol and a concreté lool ¿ot' worid: sca

picasó,

nallunal

of intcr-

cional jusuce could. pojibly:

sound

194"

no Ruicre,

metoea pingnse

the consecra.

cidadl or-

tem.

Drillarion Komct,

ins

• COLAT..

Di

the 'mose 'impor-

of. ouf.

thain

cIvtAzatios

acliteremens'a

progrcis.

LUStIlION

sie 1

• aue waltas

Endorsed, among oshers, bg:

00aa, Irdla

Amncrican Lútira!

murman Am.ro:

HONAITI

e.MIMTMAl..L64 D0400701.

ica.arr tdo

nid daines díanca Conimodce; Judte llcasy.

la llurman; Crs Coradio: N.

C. Chalg16.

Hlwe wiladmo4

Deney: Carios

Dur4.

uririans

---

## Page 34

4-00000

:--

WORLD EASELS CORPUS

Twchty-Fourts

1. 9. 6'8

Page

TWO

that a world which

being refored by technological

advances and political charges aust constantly

examine the lapact of these forces on Human

Freodom.

, Decause buttressod

knowledge must precede and accompany mants efforts

in using technology to advance tuma freedo, it is

ossential that the

best minds de put to work in

cranining the impact of technology o. Human Freedom

in a new age.

There are mary

regions of the world where Human Rights are merely

abstractions,

and without weaning.

These are the

MILLIONS,

and probably Tho BILLiOls, of persons

who have seen no change affecting their welfare and

freedom as a result of the well-intentioned expressions

UNITED MATIONS CHARTER and the UNIVERSAL

DECLRATION OF HUAN RIGHTS

Within the

franevork of "ORLo HABAs COrpuS,

the individual rights

individual freedom

within the realistic Rule of Law

can suarantee to correct and prevent wrongfül

detention.

In radition to

the rights

O political freedon, ve nust insure the

right to bealth, the right to econonic well beirs,

the right: to education.

Sand

Private organizations

who undertake this challenge would ba comitted on a

universal

Developing societics whose cultures ay be unreceptive

to technology affecting Humas Rigats sust be challenged.

---

## Page 35

4-00000

WORLD MASHAS CORPUS

...

Twenty-Fourth

1 9 6 8

Page

Three

WORLD ASSEMBLY FOR HUMAN RIGHTS supported

scholarly reseärch and the deliberations of thoughtful

men.

incerely,

LK/gb:

li. R. Kenneth Oakley

Mr. Läwrence R. Houston.

LUiS KUTNER

A 99.040

---

## Page 36

14-00000

SESS

F: 9-90-40

29.01ay 1968

6801-374-68

AITH

traçtor; Damastle Contact servi

arviçoo DIViDIon (ViDOrAg)

chloe, Catcoso ollieo

PR8-37758

REPs. Your Meno ded 27 May 68

in checking with the Gustennlan Consulete, to find that

Luta futner has not baga Colaul General for over tui years. He

vore: told chat he lo neill in chicago, but ta not connocted withi

the Consulate;

S. H. 'SIMPSON

susimppon.on

81103

Sacros.

GHOST D

included tron automatio

durnerading and

Declassification?

---

## Page 37

wther.

if fervice

F. 9-40-40

?1 May 1968,

CH1-347-68

Chief, Chleago Offlea

KATHER: 101

CH1-493-68

yes Only 83229

Lous Mano did 17 Bay &

lo your seni conceralig transfertias coplea of byes on

curity pussertes; da hove not cout thia lyos Only 43223 suns

In гавровво. ко

that't roquest (ce to ChI

ditto meno) which neroly Indicated there la an Byes Only on Kuter.

"Byes Only nacertal to kopt 1a a coparate lockod file draver la-

the vault under airtetent security nasured. Eyes Oaly satartal

18

sover kope ta individealo' Pile folders.

occut la tha future.

S. W. SIMPSON

Shis tapsonien

can services (Viorna)

65274

automtlo

Mei survis, Into Poldes

180 Carras.

---

## Page 38

14-00000

F-.99040

Peroichn

(Remain!

Ch10s,

Ptald 0181c0

a3 Hay 1983

C41-493-63

Chlaf, Chicago 01fle0

A: 99040 @ (kemius;

-coseay Late Katner of Chleago aod Horld labe

ipas OrsAaLzat1on" Clalma CIA PlaBNCLI

1BPas Toor temo

1-204-68 decod 19 Aprst 1960, above eubfect

In response ço paragrapa 7, solorenced sezo, ne alo atzachlag

anchtne coplos of all aacerial in Luta Hutaer'a fila foldar. You

ulll moto that tho lateas meno on lutner l0 dated 22 May 1964.

Also that thara lo syes Oaly Inforastlon on his (ladax do. 3223)

shica revuleed ln a lo Contaci specification on 4/10/62.

S. H.'SINPSO)

swsleipsonsen

Accechös

Cel (ano oals) Direto, Pe

C7 VT.

18.680

81108

suitnos, Lata Polder

t0 Cörfes.

---

## Page 39

14-00000

inter te

.star, Doues:1c Costect Servlc0

F.990÷0

Ciniram

1A3-236-48

29 Apoll 100

1:

A 119853

lia.

Contact ancialist

•af tho

Lú Aurel lou recaired é tolapone call fia lito contece,

Alar D.

Hut chlasse of the lastington leu tira toarp, solter à luttamos,

Paraung ca "Old seguntatence", lula liner, vell boon ditora

no clea "teria toa varli Insons Cario comisation" beadquartioned

10 Funer's ou lar onitois et 105 best hiers Carocy, Calcoco,

Iltista. Tutchingin bol lanched vith tuner o Amil togotbor vita

cincer thace ar fou pienas in hostinitia sor e recting of tha

¡merican socloty of Intomalianni Lei.

During the lunchcon Kutner bed

male culto n polät of soylas that Varzi imbers

Corraso 5000imr carilete

ulth the lorld face rouss loy ormulation

of reabington and Goesv

sultachland, l0 Anincel by the Clho No clied that ho comected to spe

pecheu cico to ouris o Bironble budic theiose. ltetinion of c

constred blo "soogrit" frond'e serts to do bighiy inalacroet

and thrist the heincy should know.

Rourton, Conoml Coinsat, by tolephano. Bourira wo lincains últa

Jutnor en hour leter era achod Cailey to Jola dica as e vitrasal.

Der ano forou, o enerrod bororo the crate recorted batend

Jerono the box vas vp, kr. Ibiston tal phon

Cò re

Coir. TO. VIT-

503-68

@ero. g/ - 1148-53

SECRET

---

## Page 40

SEr.

піда 2

110-204-60

22 April 1200

5.

ad no roguasted.

is convercationnl mihrase

•I3' on to moltivo aerto of li. luther vulca aro chemalles

'martly throuch tho Carilscion for Inicational Due Procare

of leg, 10s tsat hagio stroat, @go, filinato, a corporetton,

mad chrouch the Couscion'e clue ascocitrico vith the korle

tinết hai bong ta nàt yoy Brultrui conjuct vith ico'a Chicago

cing. Hi. Kutner "ahould low and bo vary of the implicetlana

of cuch reports.

G. It ves sode pisto elcar the CIl Anencing vas lapesible

end, porcover, void be "detrinatel to the Caricolonte alfarta"

(world labec Corn meet not to be ta eatity but a concopt.)

on the other hanu, largoly for public rolations recrone, Kuthir vog

Lou to bellero that his efforta me of interat to tha Nercy ta

the broadcot concipt.

Todict they could bo. Ho probioty w

contact Ocklay on machet tolt to keshtarion:

been encountea, to biro extont, to contact, Deso Calcaco Piery

Orfice should so have trichligenco of laportence to part,

ockloy trled to lave thie pocalollity in such a otstud that tho

vite my con Area to 1o thro

1t boceed Impospible to arold ru

tically seritorious bet

nopowbst grandlaco blen.

telepbone.

09 Cara Mad A ca a Roustona

SECRET

Exclal: Did delina

Ceda:s101 1.8

---

## Page 41

Contral

99040

CrensT

raursday, 3 Octobar 1963

AD/O

патоєдивіто]

Cillad It. Elder and raported to his Mr, Lohunna's conversation with Mr: Loula

suther..

Also advised Mr. Ilder sous of the charuins ranaris that b. Hutner bod

unde abowt bir. Mr. Elder rald be ma not vortled about tr: Kutner'e relations

vita tha pron and that it. Lotunna sould onco care so back and any that ve are.

sorry but ve aro pot interested to lie ducevatione or proposition ar uhatever 1t 10.

co: Chief, CD/

File: Louis Kitner

A99040

SEGRET

---

## Page 42

4-00000

9904.0

Chlaf, Costact Diviston

3. Ост 63

C17-63:1059

Chief, Chicago Offico

Luds Hitner

Referenco: dahcrati/icConnell/Lobsena telocorio of

2 Det 63

1. As requested, I calephoned sutner and expressed our gratitude

for hia call "to Washington" and added that. "be vere not in à pooltion

to do anytilag right not.

". Unfortunately I did not knois the aubject of

his call to Hastilagton.

87476

Eutner- gave 13

a real blast. He sald he vas going to

publlables of a rugonterton. lenguege nevapeper in chicago.

aliasdy printed the firat edttion and, because of some 300, 000 lugoslerlana

(Croats, 8erbo, orc.) In the area, there 1n a definite need for such a.

of "Abendpost",

*pone one i hag been in it stain a did a scope mitor:

(Juot what Hondich has do do ulch this affaly. la not clear and I did not

• Tee & Ile in seen

Futner then proceeded to cell ma he had called the pol's oftice

and apolo vich "some asalacent or cometalas named lider" and, after telling

sidor of the plane for the new paper asked that the Agency montonte coseone

for the posttton of edicor. ulder, he sald, van vague, rude, Impolite and

wouldn't lest too days in my olfice." sutoes ranarked ho had called

alder cuo and one half weeks ago, that ulder pronteed to call him back ind

nover did. Be then told m ve vere miasing a big bet and that in hlo

"fencastic chat an would not rate advantage of the opportunity.

Blo-next toaara.

Ir. go lato the Caban ness and the Berlin ball."

wot whet he

"How Bider could make up hila mlac

about the propo

vatory to him," he cald.

chet I dld not lou the docalls of the matter end

suggaited to thiner that there could be reasons:- which abould not. be

diacuesed as to way the proposal as not feasibie. I was able to shut

hia off by teillag hin that I would see what I could loarn about the whole

thing and contact him agaln.

Hutner's reputatton in Chicago is not good. "roe too or three

unavoidable contacts & bove kid ulti him, l regard his as an optalonited,

egotistical, valm, Blasy oreblag trouble saker.

•I dó not trust his and.

bellovo ha. can be viadictive.

Pumor. has it that he "shackò up" uttli lagglo

Baly, a Chicago dirican gossip coluilat. You cin, therefore, apprectate

ny request for further cetaila of dis proposal and dona plausibla leason lot

gatting hl off my bacs, agalo.

Copy feel I faket 987778 Grate

Robert P. B. LORENnI

Pier Lue Burner

---

## Page 43

14-00000

99040

PROM

DATE RECENTO

542.3

1 No

corits

CU. NO ATTACHENT

•eule Kutner

ACTION

DATE

3int

COPY DISE

WITH ATTACHENT

99943

CONCUARENCE

LORIGINATOR

CENTER

Negai

INFO

ROUTINO

Abarant

DISTON SOURCE OR SUBJECT. PLE:

/O ATACHMENT

I WiTH ATTACHMENI

63-1059

RETURN.

•COMMENT

NITIAL'S

ri!'

RSCOMNENDATION:

REMARKS

Ancesevelo

PLE TRA NeY BITH DOCUMENT

DO MESSAGE CENTER ROUTINO SUP

Seo meno dated 3 Oct ti tronchi offico, su decte luis kutner

---

## Page 44

14-00000

93040.

Excerat car AnO Diary, a 005 1053:

51312

1) 9/040

!?. becamell calle to tall no tim: Mo. Toy lolunn lal opcken to 13, Toul

THERE.

1: E0h.r

-313 t5rt-20 801131

reveril

t1.on 5-71

1193" 18

oza to no comelat careleed and nonet a murier or outer conari

ment he beo recale dabsolutely do socicturen. Te told

1÷c0l0

maid man dog is to buccest be man of an editor fos a

ah' lie less an interiot.

as doss, not tally asth lt;

19.r..

2l050 or

Kuther rantsy us to subsidies tho paper)

11015.

jaunes

2-5 56

Bind

ma sot be go all besitant on cietro blo cleaners to leo later, or any ochor

or triurd fr. Lorani sio very polito to a15.

lafor curately

icel trat 17: Ióhiana should reapen the gusstion aü hodgartera

therofore, u12?

to. caLl lo. cider coach lo tre moraly

japantally,

chitcazo has knom l. Katner for many yeus ard he to not hichly thought of by us.

se: Chef, CD

$ 3138

21-1

aper just

---

## Page 45

Control.

9.90:10

sireipt Prom AD/O Dlary, 1 October 1963

S/316

A 9 2040

SEGRET

SEGRET

C.5/1316

---

## Page 46

F= 990.40

SECRET

DENS, e ostober 2969

1620

699040

SECRET

---

## Page 47

COUNGENHA'

1 99040

Catal, Contact Division

ALCAs: Suppore

alif, Chicago preld Offlor

994040

outo kather, aka Las

? April 1963

Car -69-398

A 99040

NAccached 10

mich reflecta chat Lo

So kuther bas Cakon

vOS

riel

Dicederabi

of the hatt-Bolobovtk Bloe of hattons, and

I wll

rolatione uich thi Covoramens of Cuatonela as conmil genoral

atrover Kart es Tre eng Whi no and to a rocher

L.P.D: Jobuen

V au

#.P.B. Lohman

A

tach :

30 128

Pilas leta Rucher Poldor

LANIAL

---

## Page 48

MUSULMES

F 94040

Conuo cono co su maes 8s d

3- 4169

A 99040

S 8401 IN

105: 1658

folleat

Rober

P. 8. Lah

apa del tir?

CONADENTILI

---

## Page 49

F:99040

Chios, Contect Diriston

12 ju 62

Suppos

Cn-61-873

Cases, asceto omeo

Consterion For Internation

al Die: Process of Lei

uses: 946 Min

cheraft-Lobiana Te

econ 08 6 Jml 6i.

1.00,

ay be interested la the fallouts

& Chicago attorney and old

Irlead

81.80

te contact bivicion, steted thet manue, VA 9404l

Inco

ched not had ford mubject onenitation

Hilinols

opy Of an artfele frog Februs

cerning Kutner, and a reprtat

February 1959

Habeus

nternation

Lonel Dee

t Law,"a

attache

Is to leave in about 30 dove for desan

star

he plans to

b18 organ

5 Man be

2.8

abou

Pens run in Coles, Contact Dirtaton en to

Bobert P. Lobeen

metali ri

Niti

copytile 58461(11)

---

## Page 50

CONFIDENTIAL

9.90 40

NOT 1-C-E

THE FOLLOWING DOA-S REPORTS DATED DETWEEN

1 OCTOBER 1958 ANO LOULY 1964 AND CONTRI-

DUTCO OY THIS SOURCE HAVE DEEN TRANSFERRED

TO THE ARCHIVAL DEPORTE MILES DIREST ANO

QUINICS TO THE RERORTS DESK OF CONTROL

BRANCH

3205992

3209051

→M-P

T-A-N-T

CONFIDENTIAL

deditrai

---

## Page 51

-SECRET

(When Filled.ln)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

ELD'USE ONLY

¡B:REO. COÕE

& NOLANS.

1- 90-40

ERSUSE ONLY

222811923

0 8 2

Late Later, Actory

42A5

08300

Tate tutsar Aston

los pare Adora Street

chicago, Illinois

Urannisalion, Address

Заша :

O. SUB-SOURCE (Namo.

Tilla; Or

METHOD OF COLLECTIO

DIESERTRE

13X9

8teti

300!

tonarded per our tolecon of 24 Aus: 70.

MỘ VIDUAI:

ORGANIZATION NO.

INDIVIDUAL. NO,

ORGANIZATION NO

INDIVIQUAE NO.

ORGANIZATION NO

ТИКА/МІЇС

COMBINEO WITH

NSUFFICIENTI

INTEREST

EVALUATIÓN

EQUESTED:PROA

SPECIFIC

TO'USSA

FROMUSSE

FE

V firene

1229920

Carame telen there

B No 00

inter ten

C/S

VRSando: gun

FORM 25

7-09

USE PREVIOUS ÉDITIONS

2 vasando:

T. 10/00/D11

H14-213468-000.

CASE OFFICER

ISIONISTAFFIDESA

11402)

SECRET

GROUP.

120-011

2

---

## Page 52

SNOOT

UNTA

Tal was

DCTII-00-185) 382/24859-70

wet 1970 Lose Kirmor

called the Chlcago office to

explatied Chat out uns;

and ches bo

mo formerly in couch with eno

y retired) cod:

öf a book he? qu

laton cose notortoty from alo past i

of a sroup trout

ter catte erup and for the cecifiede

sutner la currently serving an Canaral Counsol for a Formasan

acheng atch a pro al the piece do to fo

the principal

organisation:

Present plass are to force

In Porages for

1ố: aão the

svo of che group

billton dollare

one of chatr fires

pocton viil oscur at cho Lilclo

aro co bo held in Nacerford, Pa.

offorto at

ventilacsng cho group

League World Champlouship Caras that

Prolansor pong: Hing

rocursed to Talued

paper that was practically a

à for Porios

nore ta

that Bitner

• Ho Rain da: 070 cleare sun ties

80w 1

¿ as a prívate eletsen

---

## Page 53

0011-00-4(8)-322/24239-70

37 Aviguot 1970

Cal

filled hia

also said.

vanture to Hasht

our

sovatimeat la paroulas.

не отрев

not surprised that there bag no tacorone la bi

parallots

sore

of the pol letes

---

## Page 54

PROCESS SHEET

fOR

OO/C COLLECTIONS

A(B

SECRET

WHEN FILLED. IN)

FELD

Us

2505

ARDED

312

13

9

FOR HEADOU

99040

RTERS USE

0/2

Debo Du aisa

22

гіпот:819

ПЛІНАТЕР

Luto Kutner

105 west Ness 8t:

Chicago 3, mu

BOUACI Wania:Tule,

SUB-POURCE LIAM

UNLESS RI SIRICYRDiN, SECTIOM

ENTIRE Y

8: 0.

TIPT'DATA-SUPPLITO, REGULARLY

FIELO REMARKS

EDITORIAL COMMENT

CIA NTERNAL USE ORY

FIELD: OFFICE

MATUS

INTS FOR BESTO

ХРЕСТ

WITHIN PRAT!

FINAL REPORT. ON THIS CASE.

C/s

res

т. а. спіст

RPBL/EY

FORM

• 80

25

BSOLETE PREVIOUI

SECRET

2 120418

---

## Page 55

SECRET

- WHEN FILLED IN)

FOR FIELO USE ONLY

ГОПИЛВОКА

9901

PROCESS: SHEET

: FOR

A(CH

00/C COLLECTIONS

1912g9

Do internetloan court of libera Corges

istsonal)

Tuls Bu

Number

ENTRA DISSI

THIS REPORT MAY.

•BE:RELLADIO TO

RIST 'OF ADUNCE, CON

0:1.

3OO CENTE

COMBINTO WITH

FIELD REMARKS

EDITORIAL CO

SECRET O

Support s

To Do/3

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

ОТРІК" САМ»ЯТАТ

MIS TEPORT RESPONSIVE TO REOWIREMENTS I

office on:

EATECT AOOITIONAI INTORMATICN WITHIN DATEL

FINAL REPORT ON'THIS CASI

A-BO

chasma/aja

5 OSSOLITE PRIVIOU:

LDITIOT

LEATON

SECRET

DRANCH - STAFF CHIEF

2

12041)

---

