# 104-10074-10155

## Page 1

LARAAA

1104-10074-10155

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

t: Ruth 31111f

The ¿01lo ing 053 records ire : tu choa:

76

It contuins incometion ons

Joseph Raymond Merola

---

## Page 2

14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEAGE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

WH76

After Men

ontaet parietr

sta i chted, mant offtee

ench, Memorenon of viets cos

Men set. Rugsond BADosA

Lois Roken Box Kord

we sarural months I have been cortacted on cocas

notorious senggler, gurunner and senart

expressed terest ta offerin his uartetras la euinac. on w.

subm situation. Because of his bautground I have alrays evaded

never, on 6 reb 61 be called sayius be had sore information comr

"zanillan Senator, a close friend and conûtlanre of "Ch." Guevara,

felt we should loon abouts

2. I contacted the FBI to check on kerola's backgrcund and wi

to amuggle

niner contrabend. as a coasaqueue I visited Merola at his palatial i.

Harml Borath.

Merola inforned ma thi: he le currently "it liberty" on two count.

a, # tuomen probation in corostlon wit: his comictica on a charge of

ringing the sta-in-lay of fuly neio Batiris,

Generti iranda, to she US in

i clandeetine Fastdon Followug the Cartro:..' y, and b) an appeal being

alas against a corviccion inolving &

3ns fror a National

Merole sas given five janis

out tie apist in caracted to drag

ndefinitaly.

Vase queried about

the Braziliar, Senatri, Wroid i dè tat le hae not

it received details, but

that San If+

• of tria.

cin 1 the Istin

merican contrace: musinees.

" the teeror was ir erested in

veloping a frog: whereby

Large Qi

ind of vt .choy voul. ye emuggled into

razil.

He sale shat the Seeator had ataited Cula &tioulas Paouid's victory

ad asd been the special guust o. "Che" Guerars.

No other details were made

ailable at the the as the intacien of Mercla.

5. It he mu sedater that di: painin:

iwin ser iscold contacting us

is to docentsia it in would irriyue vion th inderai court to reacind che

-mle travel poetriction currently toeisd on ilm so that Mecole could 50 k

221l to work out detalls of the steli.

I Inforned him that chece ;

'is bu no poselbulity de us nell or cristance ta the matter.

1. 1-21111

09649

---

## Page 3

14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Office Monosanaum

Support

UNITED STATES GOVER

DANg; 8 Fo

:00

DUNK

temorandum, on tait, top

doseph Raymond MEROTAL

2018 North Bay Road

Mtami Beach, Florida

For beveral months I have been contacted on occas

by dosepa Morole, notor lousysmuggler, gunrunner and genera:

as expressed interest in offering his assistance in conne

Because of his background I have always

However,on 6 Feb 61 he called saying he had some infort

razi lao Senator,@ close friend and confidante of "ct

felt we should know about.

230

2. I contacted the FBI to check on Merola's background

sat while he bas a long record, he undoubtedly could spea

incerning international affairs; interest in his ability to 511

other contraband. As a consequence, I visited Merola at his palati

Miami Beach.

3: Memola informed me that he le currently "at liberty" on two cor

a) A two-year probation in connection with his conviction on a charge o

irmory. Merola was given five years but his appeal is expected to drag on

*. When queried about the Brazilian Senator, Merola said that he has not

et received details; but that Sam Kay, one of his associates In the Latir

erican contraband business, told him that the Senator was interested in

eveloping & project whereby large quantities of whiskey would be smuggled into

razil.

He said that the Senator had visited Cuba following Castro's victory

id had been the special guest of "Che" Guevara. No other details were made

ratlable at the time of the Interview of Merola.

that the principal reason

for Merola contacting us

s to ascertain 18 we would intervene with the Federal Court to rescind the

ndle travel restriction currently imposed on him so that Merola could go to

azil to work out details of the whiskey smuggling.

I informed him that there

uld be no possibility of us being of assistance in the matter.

final

WH/4/FI

18-2/2

04649

---

## Page 4

14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Office Memoranda • UNITED STATES GOVER

support

ousia calet. Miami Ofeice

Bject Menorendun of viott. to:

DATE: 8 Feby

00 At

(mIN

Josephy Raymond MEROLA

2018 North Bay, Road

Miamt Beach, Florida

or peyeral months, I' have been contacted on occasion by tel

poto lous orugsler, guarunner end general no-goor

expresee Interest moster ng hid assletance in connection wi

Cuban of cuat Lon-

Because of his background. I have always evaded

However on o eb 6l he called sayins he had some information co

Brazenator a close Ertend and confidante of "Che" Gueva

felt we should know about

other contrabands a consequence, 1 vielted Merola at his pala

Miami Beach.

i) A tvo year probation Lo connection with its conviction on a char

bringing the con La-Lav of Fulgencio Batista, General Miranda, to ti

1 clandestine fashion followns the Castro victory, and b) an appeal

aken against a conviction Involving a theft of guns frow a National

Imory Merole vas siven five years but his appeal 1s expected to d

ndef inttely. 4h

14-

When querted about the: Brazilian Senator, Merola said that he h

et received details, but that Sam Kay, one of his associates in the Lat.

merican contraband business, told him that the Senator was Interested 11

eveloping a protect whereby large quantities of whiskey would be smuggl

razil. He said that the Senator had visited Cuba following Castro's vicL

id had been the special. guest of "Che" Guevara.

No other details were mar

railable at the time of the Interview of Merola.

5. It is my opinion that the principal reason for Merola contacting us

s to ascertain if we would intervene with the Pederal Court to rescind the

•mIle travel restriction currently imposed on him so that Merola could go to

azil to work out detalls of the whiskey smuggling.

I informed him that there

uld be no possibility of us being of assistance in the matter.

CARRIEN

---

## Page 5

14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

OnCe MOnorandIn• UNTIED STATES GOVY

Cotes, Contact Dtviet

SAN 84PPOX

nOntess Mtant offtce

RATE 8 Fel

00-A!

(min

ol viett toi

Joseph Raymond MEROLA

1961

17922

For several noachs. I bave been contacted on oc

by somepb Morala, notartous sunggler, gunrunner and ger

bas expressed interest ta offering his asetatance in c :

Caban situation, Becsuse of bis background I have alwy

Homever, on & Feb 61 he called saying he had sone inform

brazilian Senator, a close friend and confidante of "Che

felt we should knou about.

I contacted the FBI to check on Merola's backgrou

chat mate be rat boat actor, a care a hi abi ta,

other contraband. As a consequence, I visited Merola at his

3. Menola informed me that he is currently "at liberty"

a) A two year probation in connection with his conviction on

Binglug the son-in-law of Fulgencio Batista, General Mirand

clandestine fashion following the Castro victory, and b)

aken against a conviction involving a theft of guns frow a

immory- Merola was given five years but his appeal is expecte

definitely.

When querted about the Braziltan Senator, Merola said

Brazil. He said that the senator had visited Cuba following Cas

and had been the spectal guest of "Che" Guevara.

No other detail

suilable et the time of the interview of Merola:

5. It de my opiaton that the principal reason for Merola cont

was, to ascertain if ve would Intervene with the Federal Court to rel

25 mile travel restriction currently imposed on him so that Merola c

Brazil to york out details of the whiskey smuggling.

soals be no possibility of us being of assiotance in the matter.

18.21

---

## Page 6

14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Ofice Memorandum - UNITED STATES GOVBRNMRNT

chtet, Ment office

dum of visit to:

DATBI

a February 1961

00 A(5) -317921

(mimi - 14je)

Joseph, Raymond MEROLA

s North Bay, Road;

Miant Beach, Florida ex

evere/soche bave been contacted on occasion by tel

Merala notor dous smuggler, gunrunner and general no.r

ed Incexest in offering his assistance in connectior

Situatton Because of bis background, I have always evad

ep on 6 Peb 61 be called saylog be had some information

alian Senatorb a close friend and confidante of "Che" Gue

felt ve should know about,

32.

T contacted the FBI to check on Merola'& background

that uhtle he has a long record, he undoubtedly could speak aut

concerning international affairs; interest in his ability to smu

other contrahand. As a consequence, I Visited Merola at his palatio

Miant: Beach.

3. Men la informed me that he 1s currently "at liberty" on two:

a) A two year probation in commection with his conviction on a charg

betaging the son-in-lau of Pulgencio Batista, General Miranda, to th

a clandestine fashion following the Castro victory, and b) an appeal i

taken against a conviction involving a theft of guns frow a National (

Armory. Merola was given five years but his appeal is expected to d

indefinitely.

4. Then querted about the Brazilian Senator, Merola said t'

yet received details, but that Sam Kay, one of his a880 clates in

Amexican contraband business, told him

that the Senator was intr

developing a project whereby large quantities of whiskey would

Brazll. He said that the Senator had visited Cuba following

and had been the special guest of "Che" Guevara.

No other de

available at the time: of the intervlew of Merola.

5.

"It to my opinion that the principal reason for Merr

nas to ascertain if we would intervene with the Federal Cou.

25 mile travel restriction currently imposed on him so that

Brazil to work out details of the whiskey smuggling.

I inf

woald be no possibility of us being of assistance in the m

0813329107049024

09649

---

## Page 7

14-00000

& Feb 61

Page &

that he had been

actively engaged in gunrunning in

behalf af Fidel Castra

the revolt against Batiata.

He stated that

fallowing Castro's pistory he had

gore to Havana, and had been received warmly

by Fidel Castra and Camilo

Cienfuegos.

He furnished some detaila concerning

these contacts, as vell as

contact with Colonel "Johnnie" Abbea, head of

the Dominican secret police also a contact of his, which are being

?. Mexola also indicated that he is very well acquainted with Antonio

de Varana, head of the FRD, and felt that he would be able to provide definite

assistance to the Frente should he be called upon.

He has a 63-foot boat

available which he would not be adverse to "lending" to his frienda.

He also mentioned that he realizes that we are not in a position

to be "persuasive" with Castro agents in Miami, or with firms

shipments to Cuba via the British West Indies, Mexico or Canada.

expressed the opinion that he might be able to be of considerable assistance

"discussions" with individuals or corporations re their desisting from

lending aid to Castro.

9. Ne expressed appreciation for his offer of assistance but

that it vas very unlikely that we would request any help; however, we

be glad to hear details of any Latin American intrigue which comes

attention, and which could be of any significance.

10. No further contact is contemplated, but for the record the followin

is submitted:

•Full Name:

Joseph Raymond Merola

DOB:

9 October 1925

POB: Turtle Creek, Pennsylvania

He served in the US Marine Corps from 1941 to 1945, Serial 329620

JUSTIN

GLEICHAUF

JEG/aud

---

