# 104-10113-10044

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10113-10044

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TR

EL ORDER

274.01.

Number

#2 t0 41248-57

Dafi6 October, 1951

Name

Inchen E. Conein

Title

c-2322969

Salary

Office or Branch

Official Station

FDM/030

(Frankrurt, Germany 15-20

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in accordance with

Agency Travel Regulations.

→ subject to the following limitations:

Maximum Living and Quarters Allowance authorized in accordance with S. G. C. A. R.

Purpose:

Itinerary and Special Provisions:

APARNET TO A-2212-21

Atended to read as folloris menanating

approsinately 30 Horanber 1957".

All other provisions of original order to resain

In affocto

#3213

Date effective:

Terminating Approximately:

30 November 1951

Mode of Travel:

= Common Carrier

La Alrplane profezrod

E Vessel

_Privately Owned Automobile

J Government Transportation

Airplane

Vessel

Motor Vestedled A True Cary.

*Allowance for privately owned automobile as follows:

Signed Copy De File

devienes.

(a)

cents per mile, not to exceed cost by common carrier,

(6)

No Giause it toning.

Amente? 1: 22iad.

- cents per mile, as being more advantageous to the Government.

The change of official station indicated is effected in the interest of the Government and not for your personal convenience.

In connection with change of station, you are authorized to transport your immediate family, your household goods, personal

effects and automobile, subject to weight limits, restrictions and provisions as set forth in GAl No #11.

Travel to first post of duty abroad, including expenses of transportation of immediate family, household goods, personal ef-

fects and automobile, is authorized.

Dependents to travel with employee.

Dependents to travel within one year of employee.

Availability Date: 15 MOVerDEr I95I

Advance of Funds: $ sodden advance autho

NO.

1049

33-27

Signature:.

_ Title

warner

Robert f amen oscar

I U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 10B0 - 000210

---

