# 104-10121-10120

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10121-10120

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

(When Filled in)

VISITOR - NO ESCORT BÄDGE

REQUEST

(Submit four copies)

39,418

TO : Chief, Headquarters Security Branch, Office of Security

DATE

10 September 1975

THRU:

Industrial and Certification Branch, Office of Security

X

VISITOR-NO-ESCORT

SERVICE

UNTITLED

FOREIGN NATIONAL

(Office)

(Room)

(Building)

FROM: AC/LA/SECURITY

3 D 3102

Headquarters

1.

It is requested that security

approval be granted and a "Visitor-No Escort"

type badge be issued the following individual:

A. SUBJECT'S NAME

B.

SUBJECT'S PARENT ORGANIZATION AND COMPONENT

MORALES, David S.

DDO/LA - Contract/Internal Employee

¿. DATE AND PLACE OF

BIRTH

D.

SOCIAL

SECURITY NUMBER

26 August 1925, Phoenix, Arizona

526-20-4565

E. LENGTH OF TIME BADGE

REQUIRED

FROM

TO

10 Sept 15

30 Sept 75

BUILDING OR

AREAS

TO

BE

VISITED

Hgs magazine,

Ames.

INDICATOR

F.

FREQUENCY OF VISITS TO CIA

PER MONTH

Daily.

H. SPONSORING

OFFICE (Component, office,

division)

LA

GOG.

AUTHORIZING APPROVAL

'NA"

- 2.

For additional information concerning the above request, contact the

undersigned sponsor.

EXTENSION

TITLE

6300/R1546

AC/LA/SECURITY

FILE NO. 39 41

ENDORSEMENTS

GERBAD

REVIEWED. RECOMMEND APPROVAL

TITLE

De/D

Visitor-No Escort Badge No. A - 5657 issued on

scheduled to expire.

9/30/25

George C. Schwegmann

DATE

YES

NO

• N1a1

73

200111 ANIONS

CONFIDENTIAL

and

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do. Not Fiépioduce

03

Sheel

HEADCURT LESSERTI

BRANCH

E-2, IMPDET CL. BY: 007622

1 - OS FILE COPY

190

---

