# 104-10186-10194

## Page 1

104-10186-10194

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

-

KINFORMATLON REPORT

INEORMATION REPORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

a maletini crocatna informachin aimrias lo Machan Dalenes ol the Called Starts Minis lse meanine al too toploads late 11

UNC BACE. TO ANA TOL UNA INDEMIANA DO MITALIOS OS MRICA IS ARS MANORY LO AN UNDUERONERS DATEDO lA DIODIDILES DY A

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEX

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Manuel PINEIRO Losada

REPORT NO.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

• Do Not floproduce

DATE DISTR

C51-316/00623-65

10 February 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/00698-64

27 August 1964

DATE OF 1964

PLACE & lashington, b. C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATEC INFORMATION. SOURCE CRADINOS ARE DEPINITIVE, APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer

who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

he following report is one of a series containing personaliti

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

it Is requested that the addressees take no action on any o:

he individusls mentioned in the personadity reports withou

first checking with this Agency.

or M Department,"

DGI), he is referred to as Mu-l.

•

5

4

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

INSA

tet'omel.oom

TFBI 2

STATE

I OCR

Note: field distribution indicated by " $")

KINFORM REPORt REPOREWINFORMATION RERORT

TIE INDON

JLX 1838

WH, SA/MOB

WH SAR

HI SA/CL

3UE BRITISIN IL

O PROJECT ANHUG 1

WHISK ARIL

CSCI-316/00623-6.

TRIR 1i

jono armo

---

