# 104-10163-10145

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10163-10145

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

de ingrest 2462

HEBLIDON POR THIS 250000

JUS/3618 Cliizonably Staton of Bernard Lean HarloT, 550, 207-257669

do on a horust, yes howard Hunt and ts, Tooney and erred wiis in

arMa und tr. O:Lai1l of the Ceraral SOURSelTE OIlICO 0s tha subjoCE E

rastaration of the cillinoship of lorrard Barior.

EITiEz iJa Barter is statocent, to tna UStLoo Of jecurIty la rosand to so

cassa iness passoranda ena in tha subjactis 202 tsla.

andod that Mi. iooody son to Iripiy of lbe Alson itfalra Oftlos lo set

tbo ocealota backyrorn on the idtustion batara at surther esterto una

ndo to outern restoration os subjectin dittseasiápo sny lafarsalson

obtained sould ba pursed to tr. Orisill al the lilton al tha Coceral

2o Ir. Toonay corrurred ilth iT. Masants at tha illon AstelT»

Of22os on the Darnard Barles caza, in kazonts me sodiler vitt la

case and procused tha simary of lan Ingration and katarallrallon

Ella on Dartato datod il Jils 1951. INts nuMbEry sentiona too liano

tha surajact in soon. locording to fus Haseeit, thers sall probably on

2a serenal cornact, tirouch dongresslonel Ilalson, conid have a ser dull

other may sould be that it. Barker corld laste the dountry, for exaspies,

so to incico, apply for en Inderallon vish, and presucably obtain

to Theo sald hato to be arranged ty saforming lie jeeto Depertan

¿bar tha subjoot uns as spaciel intosen la tsa Ajesty.

• subject 19 no 1 9 , 8 5йаї taros join t

intojort ia parole pulias in 17 Detabar 19620 The Introduction of a 50029

RETURN TO CLA

actaround Use Onl

o Me Reproder

Z18R

---

## Page 2

14-00000

o bi nooe a to olmo berl a ud ent dea tacod no u be coglteasto

ainss throuzia Lacal p90000a70s

hazuraro, roooorendod tsat tha offlca of iis vonaral connsal procaad idll

a Invostiration of tha pasalblllty os lotradualng a son iouas aoraladlor

to regala eltlsonatip seu tea sarkero

(an/2-700 03

88 - 199

sobara Hopornry - N9V1 930

Коклатя Брала

H Faa D

WHe1S

9920 50 202-2516899

3/BR

---

