# 104-10145-10245

## Page 1

104-10145-10245

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SUNECT 1!1 SA RODRIGUEZ Caïderon

DATE DISTR.

26 AxILI 1955

• NO. PAOZS

2

REFERENCES

DATS OF

INFO.

1984

PLACE &

Washington, D.

DATE ACQ. ApTI]

2965

THIS 19 UNEYA

FIELD REFORT NO.

DINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAIDAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCEI

Se2+439 119

964.

uno served with the Cuban Intelidgence

Headguinterg Conments

The sollowing report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It do roguested that the addressees take no action on any 08

the individuals mentioned in the personality. reports without

first checking with this Agen

Source identifi

Calderon and said th

DireCCIon General

raph of Luisa RODRIGUEZ

n connected with the

(General Directorate of

mer secretary of the Young

try of Exterior Commerce:

that RODRIGUEZ had

according to source,

ent recruited by the United States

Government while showas in Mexico and she was recalled

to

Although source could not recall the details, he did

recall something concerning her recelving a letter from an

American Source further recalled something about an

American student who visited Cuba and who was alleged to

have made a recruitment pitch

to RoDRiclEz or was associated

in some way with a pitch made

or 1,2

Headquarters Comrents

A report concarnin

dated 22 June 195

o! one Luisa

CA

LuiSa RODRIGI

atic personnel in Hexico,

lowing biographic information

o, possibly identical with

I DIA

RED

CINCLANT

(Noto, hiald dutitution icharad by

PEE CRET.

NO TOREIGN DISSEN

NAVY

I AI

•:: | AISA

CINCSO # I&NS

loca

EBI 2

5

3

2

MAE/ALOOR

-CI/RELA

T13/C/12/0s5h

RID LANY

BEL LAYT

TOTALI WH/C 8(1)

W7 CIA CIDRID1

TIE/CANADA

JAMASHABI

LIAISON;

208-731974

L'S 2467

NO PROJECT (ANNUG!

CSCI-316/01783-65

03:49: 5N

X Lg 17-5-7

6002689

PAGE

2

COPY

NO.

is 11

---

