# 104-10163-10181

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10163-10181

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

8 Harea 1960

SANDRANTH YOR IS BECOLO

SUBTIGTI ANCIATIAL

After ooosidesablo cornersation vith Borate Satchbartt 18 slant and

tavantage. of the Bration 19 arking 10s exchanes of the additional 415,000,

$12,000 of which 19 his out nostry and 83, 000 18 TrOn h18 bother-11-200. In

VION OS INCLATTER-l'" exallest recond vith the organiention and ble prazent.

tenso sinsuslel allunison, It me astood tbat sons affost aboula be sado to

balD ble in tha pattos, hopardioniy, arter a sbort pontial 1n sloal vita

ACTAFIX?-), Balahbartt and Esterilna açroad to cablo the Stat1o0, botagtoe

then up tondate on the notres.

So TasTe Arpentad to be sara sliesortranding betraves Headguarter» and

indenherit vita sofand to soother NILATViA-lobo lo a statalose parton at

¡arter tia siatos Mith proper donasaration. Aftar 18 vas explained to salesbertt

ties rascoparture bas as abllestion to beleration ls tase setter, bo aerood

"CO INEtTUOT ANTIATiNAl tO prODoal tO IRRArI In the Dest so days and get his

радеть 15 o5der.

3. It beceas vessy apparent durd thri sorting vith ANCIANTIRel that ba

12111 18 535t anchors to tura vish too espintsation. Isteiisa reonired a

exallar inpression of thi son, bla sorivation, his drive, nad bla prosent

Ded 11 you or too hardallpo ha has sustered.

tuat sons accelderation vould bo elron to tinding exploganst 10r bis on bia

JUtATA 1I ba ves Decessaral so alariffLy hia states 1a tha States.

8. До Soter 2108

Hl/4 Aemo 912

-ACTIATERA I 811

XO7E: Mr-Tooney and Me Fh1ll1ggs (InTOs Mr. Stamul1s)

In sion s? the fect

supporn, administratiro, and

AN:: 201: 252639

201-251689

RETURN TO CIA

-Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

с:.>

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

Do vill be oparating, I roccurad that jou site tenadiato and perious consideration

tO KIrIS ATIAFTER-I E8 an scaNtrativo balpor, trassaltter, oto. Is krove

say of the stop ve are working with end, tron all that I hava cathared Ison too

Ouban Blation; 1a extremely estecting In Vorting With Cuben ratlonale, I thorejos

bellovo the man say to pruelaaly what to ara looking for to take sian of the load

08t Bent and allor his a little sara tina for his duties. Adrieo Ns at your

ds01sson on this mattes.

Aar AOL-25T003

SECRET

rest

---

