# 104-10210-10151

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10210-1015 1, i 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1497!

SECRET

FRP:

STAFF

CONF: CALA-S

INFO: ODPD-D, VR, FILE, DJ0-4, C/EI-H, CHEPS/EGiZ,

C/EURODA C/OGADMS, CAPES, IMPOSILOC,

C/PCS/POL,

DDO/DO, OLC,

(32/P)

78 1538813

TOT:

PAGE 001

0823312.N39.78

DIRECTOR 323590

SECRET

STAFF

0323312 DIRECTOR 323590

TO:

PRIORITY MADRID INFO MEXICO CITY.

RYBAT KDAFGHAN

REFS:

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSIA) HAS

ADVISÉD HOS THAT THEY DESIRE INTERVIES SOARGEONS CROSS IN CONNECTION

WITH HIS DUTIES AS P.A. OF THE PHOTO SURVEILLANCE OPERATION IN MEXICO

EMPHASIS WILL

PROBABLY BE ON FERIOD SEPTEMBER-OCTOSER 1963.

WHICH COINCIDES MITH VISIT TO MEXICO CITY OF LEE HARVEY OSTALD.

2.

ASCA INITIALLY PROPOSED TO SEND THE INVESTIGATORS TO MADRID

TO CONDUCT INTERVIEW OF KIL UTILIZING STATE DEPARTMEIT COUNTER-PART

!C. FUNDS SINCE THEY HAVE NO FUNDS TO BRING KAL TO U.SA FOR INTERVIEW.

IN VIEW PRESS REVELATIONS CITED REFS, AND TO PRECLUDE ANY FURTHER

PRESS PLAY WHICH COULD BE GENERATED BY PRESENCE MSCA STAFFERS IN

:* MADRID,TOS HILLING TO BRING XII TO U.S: AT AGENCY EXPENSE TO FACILI

TATE INTERVICH AND AVOID ADDITIONAL PRESS EXPOSURE.

THIS, OF COURSE,

•PREDICATED ON KAI WILLINGNESS TO SUBMIT TO

INTERVIEN BY MSCA.

IN VIEW PUBLICITY DIRECTED AT KAL AND FORMER STATION STAFFERS

REQUEST MADRID POSITION ON SERVING AS MIDDLE-MAN FOR NSCA WHICH WOULD

CONSIST OF COVTACTING KAL AND PASSING HSCA INSTRUCTIONS. AND FUNDS FOR

TRIP TO U.S.

WOULD ALSO MELCOME ANY ALTERNATIVE SUGGESTIONS TO

EFFECT INTERVIEM OF K/L.

201-0288248.

EZ, IMPDET. >

CALAIST BAW STURSITTS:CO (RED-9127, GREEN 3215)8 COORD:

AC/LA/MGSB (LEMMAN-DRAFT); OLE (PE/HSCA) (BRECKINRIDGE-DRAFT); PES/PGL

(SHEPANEN-TELECOORD); LA/ST D/B8F (INFO) iN s

CILAO CHARREND; RELS C/EUR SUN

• CL BY 012180.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

• cat.

---

