# 104-10400-10012

## Page 1

1104-10400-10012

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

CONFIDENTIAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

BS.7

SECRET

SUBJECI: (Optional)

FROM:

EXTENSION

C/DDO/ISS/ IPG 1D4124.

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

2.

RECEIVED

DATE

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INIMIALS..

NO.

DATE

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

SA/DO/0 2D0109

TUBE: DX 6 GREEN

John Walk

sory

1-2: Sine the contenan

nitrest in G.Wastu Mon,

Bishop and ton, farhings;

d Movenschil.

tin's Countley do thick

7.

an he and Called the Sign,

9

10.

11.

12.

13.

is.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USE RENOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

13458

03

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Mr. (Philip Fendig)

0/ SA/DO/0

ATTENTION

: Ms. (une Legleiter)

PROM

: Mr. Robert A. Barteaux

Chief, Information Processing Group

SUBJECT

: Name Trace Request - Morris (or Maurice) BISHOP

REFERENCE

: SA/DO/0-26 dated 30 March 1977 e0 ::

17

intensive search of the files and indices of this

Directorate,

including those of IP/Top Secret and Cryptic

Reference, has revealed no indication of any information

pertinent to the referenced request in addition to the

attached memorandum from Domestic Collection Division.

It has been further determined that Morris BISHOP

has not been the

subject of an OGC or FOIA name trace request.

Ms. (June-Legleite? of your office was informed of the

above information by telephone on 5 April 1977 at 1000 hours.

Robert A. Barteaux

z/рs

DO GOONS

SECRET

* INPOET CL CY. 011981

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Sy2-460

179262

17184262

CD/00 Case 42962

A(5)3, 902, 509

A35067

14 tay 1964

Subject:

Background and Assessnent Information on Frofeasor

(Jena Jacques Demont, Cornell Untreralty

17-725

1. Ous of our cleared soureas et bohell linderal ty bou recently confirmed

FILE: MOrTis Bisbop LyR460050

SYR- 138

Grossvogel (Joint); Cornell) University

our understanding ar Professog, Denorest's family and professional back-

round and his evident dunlity of interests in the Us sad trance. He

presume that most or all of the important basic biographle date on

05 Denorest) 18 avallablo to DODS. For that reason, to vill not attempt to

supply any great amount of this except as 1t vill provide a better setting

for this assassmat.

2. Our normal source deseription for enore t) represents a capule numery

as bie background. The following additional points devaloped by our

sOUrce soon to be relevant.

B)

(emorEat vas born 1a (le) Prence. Ele fether 10 a us

ültires. His mother was French at the time of his birts,

out my pince have been anturalized In this coustry.

05 Denorest spent uis youth alternataly in trance or the Us

and grew up to be completely bilingual in those two lang-

unges. He speake french vida no forelga seceat.

After attending Ca10 State Unfreraity, he took graduate wort

le Some to to tale a atter period 1 tenat

therein and served in Africa under General Lellatr In the can-

palga from late Chad to Tunisia, Later ho vas pounded in

Italy, nearly losing his right ara as a result,ou de spent

about tho jears 1n a hospital recovering and was awarded

the french leglos at sonor.

After the

var, ho completed his graduate work and toax a

position il Duke Univeralty ond distingulabod hissell 1i

the perfaruanog of his duties there. La vas hired tros

0° (Duka) by Cornell valvereity and has been at the latter ever

ālsco. "our source's close sasociation v1th (Denarest) begar

at this partiovlar period.

d) Bonerbera along tbe line, enorat) vas converted to Catholtera

and our source describes him as s devout Cathallo. Bo war-

Iled @French g2) Dron whom he has been separatod in recent

(Denorest)la a great adalrer of President Defaulle and tows

his personally. He has a strong and continuing interest 10

French palities and while our sourca does not inon such ai

FULL TEXT COPY -- DO NOT RELEASE

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CD/CO Case 42961

Descreato on personal, palstical sellins, be guesses that

1t l1es In the Conter-Right.

Because he has an Interest in Delaullo and the Caullista, has

may flends in french foverament and army circles and beeps

informad via the Freach press and his on correspondence on

current, conditions in France, Denoreat la Irequently called

upon at Cornell events and beforg(Cameli)aluni groupe to

lectura on conditions 1a Itanca O le is extrenely #all 15-

forged and dons this particular job in a superior sanser.

In addition, be feels es obllestion to explain Dosaulle's

and caullist vers in this country unes be 18 assed to do so.

Our source deseribed Dead at les being an idealiet and ma

entouglast, so 1s inclined to jit these feelings into setion,

as for example rben be jaloed the ires French at & time when

the Us vas not setively figating the bermens.

At preseat, (Denorest) is 11 France on d grant which allows

his to work on the sanuscripts af the late French author,

Bernanos, Accarding to our source, his selection for this

frant reprasents an honar among scholars.

3.

In addition to the above points, our source confirmed our exasting over

all Impressions abolt (Denorest) which have been Included In NIPe and nemos

about hla forwarded over the past six jears. In the circumstances of bis

family and cultural heritage, 1t 18 quite natural that (Demorest) rould

develop an astive interest in France and mattera french, 5Hls public

explanations of present conditloss in irance reilect his continuing

close association uits his friends and associates there, many of thom

are in polities, governient or the milltary. Our source agrees uite us,

lorever, tast this ls not s case ar ivided loyall deuteer the ls an

ranco. He feels that Detonast jla a loyal Americas uho bas & lon

standing and legatinate Interest in irance, iron our own contacts tide

05 (Desorest) we can not dlangres with tale.

h. (Denarost e) accens to peoplo in tremel government and aray circles 1a

beat expressed in the series of reparte subultted Iron his under Cases

40413, 37605 and 35133. A sovien of this matertal Will provide cloar

evidence of the rango of his personel associAtions in irRace IrOn Preslo

deat Detaulle on doris.

50

During the poure ot our continatas contact vita (pesortal) va bave never

had reason to quartion bla discretion or personal conduct. Els appre-.

clation of Agency reguirements that ve have discussed with his has been

14/TV

---

## Page 5

13-00000

CD/00 Case 42962

personablo Individual to sag a side range of Interents. Our source agrees

with us, Incidentally, that his tripact on Cornell)alummi groups must be

both considerable sad favorablo.

6. Mallo our experience vita Demorat) sas been bota poaltive and productito,

no vould emphasizo ona palat.

The denasds made on his in our callection

of fit and the assistance he has provided ass entirely different fron

- those that vould provall under a relationship with the Da/P. Our rela

Monsbip has beea ablo to couplement, Devorest's ability to explain the

Gaulllot view 10 a vay that vill seife his oun governsent and thica vill

not damage his personal and profossional contacts and associations in

irasce. In other words, the collection ar its - which in this instance

has been substantial - 18 a fars of cooperation under uniebDemorent) 10

protected. The needs and operations al the DD/?, on the other hand, 5

Introduce a strong and continulng element of risk for bin. le have been

assed to saseas.

-"Denarest l possible perfomence in an actual 'approach'

and "recruitest' sltuation."

The potential 1n 'approach' and 'rocruit

sent' situations 1s to ua quite formidable. 5It takos no stretel of the

10851a94100 to foresee the ruin of Denorest"y professional career in.

France. (az1 possibly here as vell) or lons of his 100g-atanding Irleni

shipa there 1l so operation Invalving hin vero to go sour. There 1s no

reason to belleve tast he vill not recognize thls potential Inmediately

1f operational setters are discussed with hin. Frankly, we can sot.

prodiet his reaction to this sort of thing, but va doubt that be 18 naive,

let alone naive enough to put hinsell voluntarily under the guillotine.

lo As we have indicated earlier, Denarest's travel plans in lest Europe

aro for the not part little knows by his associates at (Carneli, is This

18 by desiga to give demarent)the videst freedon of novement ville bo

v11l not be

to france and sill apond the sumer traveling, probadly in otter countries

of Heat Duropa, Before ba loft Itbaca 1p Jun 63, be told us that be

rould like to drive through the Scandlältan countries durtag this cordag

very littla thas at any cas place in Hast Euroga for that matter..

8. A second cleared pource at (Carnei1.)obtalnedl the abore brief travel plan

fron a trend of Genoreat)i Who visited (Ithaca) last veekend. Bellering

In the event that a DD/P tepresentative bould vish to met Denorest) at

that time, (loss) could seep this appalrtment la bla couplay.

05

03

C.

M/TV

---

## Page 6

13-00000

CD/co case 42961

79°

Thio appeare to be the only opportunity to met with est) urine

his brief period in the US next month. Our Carapll) source can break

the appalatzent 11 there do no dealse in DODS tóYeep It. Our clincelo

lation villl bare to de door by titl in tha fara of & latter Iros our

source. For this reason surflejoat tiss vill have to be alloved lar

the salls. Pleaso advise us whather or not this appointment should

be kept at the cartlest possible moment, certairly by 20 kay.

ende

zont

=:-

---

## Page 7

13-00000

• 1.

CUNE IUENTIAL

DCD-194/77

5 April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: DDO/ ISS/ IP/EIS

FROM

: Ruth Elliff

DCD/ FIO/PAO

SUBJECT

: Morris G. Bishop

Attached per your request are full text copies of all

the material in DCD's files on Morris G. Bishop.

mit illift

RUTH ELLIFF

Attachment:

As

Stated

E2 IMPDET CL BY 010650

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 8

13-00000

Sди....

129262

400

Bichip

903 tickef Road, Ithaes, New Youk

ACt said!

2amaycx.

42461

Budilier

3/1116x

su 111-3,900, 509

FUL TET COPY - DO PR MELIASO

---

## Page 9

13-00000

S/R-460

129262

CONFIDENTIAL

(Then Filled In)

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

DATE : 9 June 1964

TO.

:Chief, Contact Division, 00

SUBJECT: BISHOP, Morris Gilbert

FILE NO: 264780

A/24262

460

1. Reference is made to your request for a security clearance on the subject

person as a source of intelligence information.

2.

This

is to inform you that the necessary checks have been completed with

the following results:

B.

No additional Information has been obtained, except for such

biographic information as indicated below or in the attachment.

b.

Information has been received that Subject was investigated with

favorable results in

c.

Certain information has been received and appears in the attach-

ment which your Division will wish to consider in determining

the extent and level of your use of Subject.

3. It is to be noted that our checks were made on the basis of the identifying

information you furnished or in an attachment to this memorandum. Should it be dis-

closed that this information is erroneous or that Subject is known by a different

name, this Division should be notified immediately.

Malibun

Chief, Personnel Security Division

Attachment:

State Passport Report

10 JUL 1964

APPROVED (CAUTION)

- THIS CATEGORY IS ASSIGNED BY INDEX

FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY. THE

FIELD CHIEF DETERMINES LEVEL OF

CLASSIFIED DISCLOSURE.

88 JUN 1964

10 JUI JU1102

I MET E83

---

## Page 10

13-00000

CONFICENTIAL

BISHOP, Morris Gilbert

#264 780

18 May 1964

On 15 May 1964, the current passport file of Morris Gilbert BISHOP

was reviewed at the Passport Office, Depertment of State. The follow-

ing is & sumary of the information contained therein:

Date of Birth: 15 April 1893 at Willard, New York.

PASSPORT ISSUED:

At Washington, D. C., on 14 March 1962, Number

C195699, for two months to visit France and Italy

for the purposes of study and recreation.

SUBJECI's current fIle contains no intoration al a derogatory

nature.

JEF/De

10 JU JU-90

FULL TEXT COPY -- CO KOT RELEASE

E. 3

GONF GENTIAL

GAOU?1

---

## Page 11

13-00000

16 Apr11 1964

129262

--^"

CHI!, SYRACUSE F1

ROSS

CAS5-42961

OFF IOS

MORRIS G.

A/29262

Syn 460

BISHOP

BUD 10111

Security

#3039

122L

FÜLL TEXT CONY - ES MOT REIEIGE

---

## Page 12

13-00000

1°

26 MAR 1964

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

1.

SUBJECT'S LAST NAME - FIRST NAME - MIDDLE NAME

BISHOP, Morris Gilbert

A129262

2. ALIASES

resi

480

INo. (Budelin

case 429k

3.

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

15 Apr 93; Willard, New York

A SEX|5.. CITIZENSHIP

US

FROM

RESIDENCES (Including NO., end Strect, ZonC, R.P.D., etc.)

COMPLETE ADDRESS

Present

903 Wyckoff Road, Ithaca, New York

8.

FROM

1921

1942

1943

1944

Present

1943

1944

1944

1945

A.125

EMPLOYMENT

MAME OF

Cornell University

Office of War Information

Outposts service

Member of Staff, Psychological

Warfare Division, US Army,

Headquarters Third Army

Headguarters 12th Army Group

I CONTINUED

Ithaca, New York

Washington, D C

Londos, UK

• CONTINUED

TXOM

TO

1913

1914

1926

EDUCATION (High school, college, graduate work, etc.)

NAME OF

SCHOOL

Cornell University

Cornell University

Cornell University

AB

AM

PhD

DEGREE OR MAJOR

• CONTINUED

ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION. INCLUDING FULL NAME CITIZENSHIP DATA ON PARENTS AND CHILDReN.

Subject is now Professor Emeritus at Cornell University.

3/ war /964.

GROUS 4.

damagialias and

declassiticstas

CONTINUED

---

