# 104-10215-10198

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10215-10198

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

"ORIG:

UNIT :

EXT

DATE :

TO

FROM:

. CONF:

INFO:

TO

1. 5. MAINWRIGHT:eto

Sig/FI

6153

5 ERBRUARY 1963

MADRID

DIRECTO

C/SAS

DDP

CLASSIFUSEO MESSAGE

SECRET/ KAPO:

AMLASH

532

ROUTING

5FE0 63 22. 407

SIO GEN

DEFERRED

_ROUTINE

DDP, C/C1, C/FI, C/WE 2, S/C

INFO

PRITY MADR

CITE DIR

15597

RRE: BADE 7838 (IN 60580) *

1. MAILED & FEB TO GROVERY AT ABFINCH SPECIAL DELIVERY AIR

LETTER CONTAINING UNADDRESSED S/T LETTER FOR AMLASH/1, WHICH

DEBIRE QUAXE MAIL HAVANA. AT LAST REPORT AHLASH LIVES WITH MOTHER,

VIRGINIA SECADES. THBREFORE PROPOSE LETTER BE ADDRESSED TO

ABILASH AT THAT ADDRESS. LETTER WAS ORIGINALLY PREPARED FOR

SENDING VIA OTHER CHANNELS, BUT REF TRIP MORE EXPEDITIOUS.

2. SECADES ADDRESS OR POSSIBLY BETTER ONE CAN BE OBTAINED

BE HILAN AT JEMBLRY FIRM OF CORLETTO S.R.L., PIAZZO SANTA MARIA 4,

BRITSADE, MILAN. TRUBPIONE 80 32 09 OR 86 07 10. ALWHIP PERSONAL

FRIERD AND BUSINESS ASSOCIATE OF FIRM'S OWNER, SIGNOR CORLETTO.

3. HEALTH PERHITTING, SUGGEST GROVERY CALL ANTHIP AND

DOUBLE TALK REQUEST. IF UNABLE, OTHER STAFFER SHOULD ATTEMPT

CALL, IDENTIFYING SELF AS "FRIEND OF BILL TROMPSON". FYI AMWHIP

NOT EXPECTING CONTACT EUROPE AT THIS TIME BUT BELIEVE ABOVE HILL

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CONT' D..

SINO OFFICER

5-32

SECRET/RAPOX I/ET

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

• REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

*Copy No.

201-252234

---

## Page 2

14-00000

¡ ORIG:

UNIT :

EXT

DATE :

F•E. FAINRIGHT:OR

BAS/EI

6153

5 FEBRUARY 1969

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF,.

INFO :

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

BECRET/KAPORENSIN!

ROUTING

51115) 2

PAGE THO

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIR

ESTABLISH BONA FIDES.

15597

15597

&. IF ADDRISS OSTAINED FROB ANNHIP, QUAXE SHOULD CARRY

LETTER WITH HIH ON RRE TRIP UNADDRESSED. LETTER TO BE ADDRESSED

ARD MAILED AFTER QUAXE CHRABS CUSTONS AND PASSPORT CHECES. AS

LISTEN IN FINALE HANDINITING, COVER STORY FOR QUATE I LETTER

FOUND DUSINS CHECIS IS THAT SPANISH GIRL HABIA DOLORES CAVE HUH

UNITEA FOR PARANOUR HAVANA WHO WAS TO MELT AT AIRPORT.

RID OF NESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *DOES HAS OR WAVE HAVE ANY OPS REQUIREMENTS QUAXE COULD SERVICE.

Thomat Thil

CHE

RELEASING OFFICER

YB/ 5/8

GROUP 1

doongradiso and

SECREY

doctassificaton

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED..

C/SAS /EX

AUTHENTICATING:

OFFICER

.. Copy Noi

---

