# 104-10098-10301

## Page 1

104-10098-10301

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO

DISPATCH

Chief, WI DivIsIon

GLASSIFICATION

INFO.

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

-Chiel ni station, Modeo CItI

SUBJECT

MUBAT FrOSTeRS Report Auguste Seytamber, October 1963

ACTION REQUIRED . REFERENCES

MICROFILM

Ref: 1N81A-22029

Action: Fox Jour information

The following report is subuitted In accordance with C8PI7-F 52-01,

soction V, paragmanh 2 (a) (1).

A. PXPLOTTATION OF LEADS

(2) I IPER/CubRa

In the course of the reporting serlod LINAT

covered two targets of facet Interest.

ano of thase lines vas coniderod

productive ol oparationel lande but us temporarily aiscontimed for operation

IOnsOns. Coverags of the seconi 19n0 mus terminated for lack of productica.

Toe only load produced tron this lina vas repartud on 12 EMIA-22164, IMPEAN E

continued to cover tro Ilses in commostion vith the ASIAI operation.

tho

product of this coverago 1a of interest to Spacla), Affairs Staff and MAVE ar

the take is forarded vesicly to thess custoners. Racently this particular

coverage han provided infamation of intereut on the relationships within the

tendly of Fidel CASIRO and the continuing daterioration of these rolationahii

Coverage of the lons phone of a Cuban official was lnstituted at the roquest.

a Sucial Attalrs Stall officer to support the sensitive AVROD operation.

LIKur cantimad 1ts coverage o1 the home phon

of tuo kaaa sovlet Intelligenco officers.

Product and use cantimies as 1apc

In raference.

Coverage of one of these lines ma diacontinued during the rec

absonce tra laden ot me or these targets. This coverage 1a now being re-

Instetad.

(3) LIFEAT/POlish

Recent It'll Information fron coveraga of thi

targot has indieuted that a sentor Polish official 1n Mexico le conductuas a

affalr with the wife of another Pallah afficlal..

The KIPEAT load sas the bai

for further Station action in thia case. LIVIAI baE Increased Its coverage :

support of this posalble future recrultuant attompt. Also 1a tha PoLLsA fle

LIFENI provided coverago of a suspectod Palish 1llagal residirs in Musico.

(continued)

Distriration:

CROSS REFERENCE TO

16094

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE

2D04A-22536

CLASSIFICATION

SECHEE/REFAT

29 Novenber 1953

HOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-33/3

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFICATION

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

25; 1:

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

B42030

do comram of tha bone phen el a cures inbelitznos artines.

to one 1224le es eparationi value has terrai un ca tiso 1usa allar thez blo

ua mood 1n1 mo merited so on soons some to 200 for posalale nationa

Ineralinis attenot of bar. Muls anterer has 2ão0 contled tale station to

miles another Mation of the monuble surentalllity to rearitant of i

Contes some the country of concur to that Duation.

magnanh lot, (5) cherra, comespo of a montes of tha PC Coutmal Comaltaro,

aris CAn Rijertre has yielder sodi information a 1h pro-Catere/soviet

1uf1gattng in We full an vell as tarant mulyals information do varlous plas

088101278

provland to the Jocal ODIVY stiles true tha curare of Daze ma, Charles

y that oftios. do lo sartmiary metai in covaring sorente of Amrican

lestiste ent commutats too travel to ludes anl trutually on to cus.

LINGS DOVINER C8 & TOTION MUTH ANS

lo at tuterant to burt, Indorarions and the sundor Caror offloor in taito

Puts on too comango of a miated luu0 contin the Interested enatonera ta sio

80 cass

ItPETD-1 has manged to catnal lla "condanton" ds irrentlestor of persoucal

for the balapions euserry.

armans the ruparting inciou matial doug van trovided br lenanartor for

the tronto ot a chilê of busts.

Tate das uns sot amilable Locally and

Tamalay no cout sratarul for the cassotanne of bla "Arlenda" in attaizize thia

material.

Bo EASIEST

al tho talegione pentanlo has promas succanstal.

BOceEs of latItAl and somert radunos tie mirity tarast to the LIFRAS 18091352

Into latter sou sot bo fully munted since 1t 1a sou apparent that a his 70t1rol

statue InvourI can noner irrito the jursonal buck in protection to these Lurra

paromal that hi could pulor to bie rottremat.

Althongh the sink laborat in

con not he completely allninstod, it in felt tout it

co be retaent to a vortatie lemon.

To coperago ol the lugonla! Entassy liosa lno hoen esculod by baalor.

Perratore Illite u1ll pot bure to son the mitieuler rial of roastablisaias

the coTaTEs, It usa the necanartly complientad "jurp" fca on cact] 8000

to mother that alertod the tologhu compery erer to cheat the tap 1100 assiss

or tals eoverves demeribed in aman late os reteranes.

PAGE NO.

FORM

Ust PREVIOUs EDITION

10-57 53a

REPLACES FORMS

51.28. 51-28A AND 51.29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE

CONTINUED

Tosset

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIRICATION

520237 /51279X

DiSPAICH SYMBOL AND NO

EDDIE 22536

No chenge fros prortony raparts.

the coramon provided ly linit aulus tos portine zerod toteled al

reparato 11798.

à truemon by tarsal la at tallows:

2.0

Matsenio d. 8X0201

3, 4, 5 and 6. Palich Mitray nod Camarosal Offsce

To and so sushit operatien

20.

Some of a Cules Comarsial Attache

Home of a tsuch Intelline oftleer

11, and 10.

13.

and is tate of till interen

15. cad 16.

dans dors Aruvalo and seleta1 1120

17.

Tom of heal seust and minted Ilro.

20,

Durguetad Chest, 18 agent

21.

22.

Maria Rades GRAPA T900rtnn

tosh sabirer

80.

12TA BIA

23.

During tas mport tas porlad i sabar of maomola vars prajaroi by thar

Station 561 p8a4115 de Leral GDACTO Dad CONVY inUed 1A MOld Or 17 jet 000

Ita provided autariel

Arther, tao talains 101 vre baod o lIful pordoi informtien:

150S-7574

19S-7745

10- 7576

BILITY?

50· 7996

aN4-1591

MM 1798

48-7603

EX-100e

1004 7525

дода

1814-7606

A04 T633

1643

TOMS-7B56

- 7660

TAL TOY

1000 7607

1244-7675

103: 7879

EA4-7898

TN0S-7900

Bc-1721

10-7929

1791-7952

BN-T/32

US EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

16094

CONTINUED

---

