# 104-10263-10138

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10263-10138

side

=

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

ri :

..?

ROUTING AND RECOND SHEET

15:920::5A5

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. ca back. Detach back

slap and sortara to pID.

2.

Destroy front cover steet, unless 1t

records

significant action

taken or.

corrents requirisg preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If Sile so, ad title shom aro not

proper, insert proper file ro. belor

and fortard documeni to RId/AN.

PROPEA FILE NO.

ALOY

AL/WE

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATK

COMMENTS

TO

ROOM

NO.

DATE

FORWARDRO

10 JUR 1362 9 JUN 1SP6

OFFICIR'S

INITIALS

AILADLE

WE/ X

AL/WE

19 MR 172

20.00

ON

'C

WE / 6

21

19

gune

gone

Lik,

-5 to%:

03

Sheld farCasmell

to read.

C

z/7V

JRH

12.

13.

5 july

10

11n;

e.

HAND CARRY

c detecial

10 ti 1963

dege

14.

files

15.

RETURN THIS DOCULINI LO AN NOT LCHOILMING BETORE

IT 19 FILED

I TUS IX CUMENT INTU BE KISSUCTED, CHECK

- RESTICTEL TO.

17.

TRACL

MAQUEST

DATE MICHOPILMED

ANOTRACT

INOLX

1201-99888

PILE NUMMAN I MIMARY COUNT

DOCUMENT DATI

2аm)94 94 (m2)

DOCUHHAT NUMDEN

2400.4167

OELA 36513

L.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chief, YB

SECRET

.—

C7LA-36513

FROM

SUALECT

ACTION REQURED

REFERENCES

201-291855

Chies of Station, London RIF

=6.7

24 Hay 1962

SUDESK/AELADIE (JAGUAR °/

?.

IXO NO PESUNG ISOURED

FYI

O5TA-36215, 12

April 1962

: .

latinist

1.0.: 150

EirC 281476

Te following, according to SMIMPEDE"

1s the

general status of the investigations on the leads

provided in the AELADLE cas.?:

GAGUAR) has set up a special ARLADLE section

under IMPEDE, comprising research and investigative

Junctions,

05 (JAGUAR) section

which is physically segregated from other

I.B. has been

suspended.

The personnel of the AfLADLE

section are listed in the attachnent (under separate

cover).

2.

foreign Office:

Research and background

checks are being conducted on all personnel who served

in Moscow In the period in question.

This is a tre-

nendously

difficult jok and will take months, and the

Foreign Office category apparently will present the

nost difficulty in localizing possible suspects.

The

three following possible suspects are being recalled

their posta in the field and are under investiga-

lon with a vlew to their eventual interrogation:

2. Tho female (Archivist) now 1n (Bera.

The comunicator previously in (ginland,

now in (Djakarta.) 10

ferred from Moscow to Manila)io Only one person fits

this description aod le is being recalled; there 1s

nothing suspicious in his background.

3.

Admiralty: (SMTWPEDE)felt that there was good

promise for turning up a spy in this area in view

the documents passed.

However, he has only been able

to narrow 1t down so far to sightzon possibilities,

none of whom have anyühing londing to suspicion in

their files.

He foresees, nucurnizy, considerabie

wOrK

In narrowiny It down any furthor.

British Intelligence: Since AELADLI's concep-

tion of Britinh Intolligence

nbroad included Shoriol

service attacho personne! and somo Foreigu Office soc-

conductink its rosonich and investiyation

of ita personnel who univer in Moncow in the porlod in

question. (with no ronl sispocta turnod up yet) and

O JAGUAR 1n aviiny on tho servico and Foroin Offico por-

sonnel.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONINUATION OF

CSPATCH

"ECRET

OMLA-36513

5.

Helsinki and Vienna: Since ALADLE was able

to furnish

Banes. or identifying information for this

category, (SHIMPEDE stated he has about fourteen specific

cases thus

far which will be given intensive investiga-

tion.

lie feels it possible that this may result in un-

covering three or four agents fron the fourteen cases.

(SINIPEDE) stated that he believes it fortunate

that the RELADLE defection occurred at this time be-

cause it is bound to have a definite long-term value in

the tightening up of British security practices which

he felt vere very insufficient. He bemoaned the fact

that he does not yet have a clear cut case (resulting

ITOM the AILADLE naterial) to table at this time to add

further support to the recommendations made by the

Hadelifse Connittee.

Alabus vas relusing to talk.. Having been so

by TERNICH that very day, FELS told SNIPEDE hAlOrned

ALJ.ADLE MAS ALBIN COOperating.U| SMIMPEDÈ would like at

Bone tine to talk once more with AbLADLÉ to review the

informatirn developed so far; in fact, let him in on

the whole Inveatigation in the hope that this will jog

his menory and stimulate hin to further revelations.

Ricind I Tels

RICHARD I. FELS

Attachment - Idens.

Dist:

* - NE w/att/UBC

---

## Page 4

14-00000

ATTACHMENT TO OELA- 36513

AELADLE SECTION

A. INVESTIGATIONS

(Ronald Symonda) 06

Ronnie Reed? 06

W1111an Colfor.) 06

Bo.

RESEARCH

(Patriok Stowart)06

Penelope Scrutton 0b

(Frieda Snal1)06

06 M188 Snu MacKenzie)

24

One other woman.

rrom(D-3) section, unidentisiod,

but possible (Joan Rusaell-K1n8)d6

SEGRET

9/1j:

---

