104-10122-10369| 20:
22 RELE: lA’ ACT O!
: ; eo 2 RE ASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECO!
: : RDS ACT OF 1992

\. WW tor Wan dhe.

Dye te eh at yrs leg,

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO- a

CONFIDENTIAL |__|

UNCLASSIFIED

ror w0 937 previous editions



b Sree iat Eerste ADN  JSTRATIVE — INTERNAL USE. Y

9 AUG 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM : Robert W. Gambino
Director of Security

SUBJECT: Robert Maheu

1. On 4 August 1976 Mr. James P. O'Connell, formerly
Deputy Director of Security for Physical, Technical and
Overseas Security, now retired, called to inform me that he
had been contacted by Robert Maheu concerning a book which
Maheu is writing.

2. Mr. O'Connell indicated that Mr. Maheu wanted to
discuss the book with him, together with Mr. Maheu's ghost
writer, one Joseph Frank. Mr. O'Connell stated that he
agreed to meet with Maheu but wanted me to know that he
would not provide Maheu with any information of a classified
nature.

3. On 5 August 1976 Mr. O'Connell called Mrs .Relda
CWhite}to advise that he had decided against meeting with _
Maheu. Mr. O'Connell stated that he told Maheu that he just
simply did not want to get involved.

4. On 8 August 1976 Mr. O'Connell called me at my
home to advise that he had been contacted by a reporter from
The Washington Post in response to the news story. concerning
the death of Johnny Roselli. The Post reporter wanted to
interview Mr. O'Connell to obtain the "general. background and
color details concerning Johnny Roselli." Mr. O'Connell

advised that he told The Washington Post reporter he had
nothing of interest to provide him.
5. Mr. O'Connell elaborated further concerning Mr.
Maheu's book, stating that Maheu was now in London where
Mr. O'Connell speculates he will publish the book. Mr. O'Connell

believes that the book will be concerned primarily with Maheu's
relationship with Howard Hughes and that Maheu's connections

ADMINISTRATIVE — IRTINIAL USE ONLY #

,
j
MR lots. : ees



with CIA will be of minor importance. Mr. O'Connell volun-
teered to contact Maheu and request galley proofs in order
to review the book prior to publication to determine if he,
Mr. O'Connell, is portrayed in an accurate manner and if
information sensitive to CIA is included in the book. I
explained to Mr. O'Connell that whatever action he wanted-
to take was a private matter but that CIA was of course
interested in protecting classified information and infor- +
mation concerning sources and methods. I thanked Mr. O'Connell
for the above information and he advised that he would contact
me further should he obtain additional information concerning
Maheu's book.

“Robert W. Gambino ae

Distribution:
Original - Maheu File
1 - James P. O'Connell File

