# 104-10130-10472

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10130-10472

• 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992*:

UNCLASSIFIED

P'TERNAL

ONLY

J CONF' NTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Chief, Central Guer

Nonofficial Covar

Brang

1-A-20

TO:: (Officer dosignation, room number, and

building)

Office of Security

(Attn: Mr. Bannerman)

G-E- 31

"Gol. Convendo

"In. White

RECEIVED

EXTENSION

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS.

FORWARDED

NO.

DATE

26 MAR 1963

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom. Drow a. line across column after each comment.

for your Information

2 Apr

SE

гор. 7.kа

See meh

Place-

trachenhunt file.

6.

7.

8

9.

10.

11.

indente

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

60 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

4-00000

CS-2793

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: The Wackenhut Corporation

3280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard

Coral Gables, Florida

1. Mr. Bannerman, Security Office, arranged through Chief,

cos for the writer to meet Mr. George, jackenhut, President of

subject, to explore its potential for cover support. At 10:30

a.I., on 14 Narch 1953, Mr. Wackenhut, Mr. Wes Reysolds, and I

met at lix. Reynold's home, 3809 37th Street, North, Arlington.

•ut. Reynolds apparently represents Wackenhut in the Washington

ares, although I did not gather that the firm is actually

operating here at present. Mr. Wackenbut and Mr. Reynolds, both,

are ex-fBI agents.

2. Wackenhut started his firm in 1954. In 1961 1t was

reported to have 1100 employees and anticipated 1961 sales 1n

excess of $5 million. At present 1t has offices In Miami,

sorel Gables, tamps, dacksonville, Philadelphia, lew fork tity,

BOStOs, inffalo, Denver, los Angeles, Sen Jose (Cal1f.), Honolulu,

San Juan and Ponce, Puerto Rico. Wackenhut freely states that

he trades on the reputation of the fil by publlelzing widely the

21 ex-FBI agents, Including two former Assistant Directors of the

FBI, In his management.

3. The Operating Divisions of the company and their services

are described In & Wackenhut brochure as follows:

Investigative Division.

Performs all types of Investigations for attorneys, Insurance

companies, banks and other businesses; sets up internel audit

systems to prevent embezzlements, and Investigates personel back-

grounds of prospective executives, business partners and associates.

Sclentifle Services Livesion

Conducts pre and post-employment, pre-promotional and spec1-

fic lie detector examinations for business and Industry; speciel

izes in technical security and investigative techniques, scientific

detection devices, and electronic and mechanieal security methods

and equipment, and perforns electronie "sweeps" to counter business

espionage through the detection of electronic Intrusion attempts.

---

## Page 3

- 2 -

Internal Intelligence Division

Specializes In exposing and controlling inside thefts that may

range fron emuloyee pilferage, through embezzlement of thousands of

dollars, to highly valuable industrial secrets.

Central ClearIng Division

Assists personnel and security directors to screen quickly

he backgrounds of present end potential employees through th

essive files of The Wackenhut "orporation

Increases net profits by reducing inventory abortages through

ne control of internal end external Losses with security programe

esigned to meet the client's specific needs.

Training Services Division

Provides specialized tralning prograns for security, fire

righting, investigative and other personnel of business organiza-

tlons and professional groups.

Industrial Security Division

Provides the essential security services that are required by

all companies seelong or handling goverment classified contracts;

assists management in disaster and emergency planning.

Fire and Safety Division

supplies ambulence services, first ald crews, lackenbut fire-

men sully trained in the technical fleld of Industrial and mmi-

cipal fire fighting and equipment, and safety surveys, systems,

and eduestional programs.

Guard Forces Division

selects, investigates, traing and supervises the uniformed

and plain clothes guards who protect your operations; also provides

uniformed receptionists and guardettes; makes physical property

surveys to determine security requirements and establishes security

systems and controls.

4. Mr. Wackenhut wants to expand abroad, In view of his

successiul venture into ruerto Rico. iowever, he has no definite

plans as of the present and seemed to be seeking from CIA covert 24

sponsorship for entry Into areas of Interest to us. He is pre-

pared to furnish personnel himself

5. It 1s not epparent to me that there 1s any significant

market for Wackenhut's services in foreign countries, except

possibly anong American businesses with physical plants overseas.

The nature of these services, I would presume, would make rather

a1ff1cult acquisition of the necessary occupational pernits 1n

many countries.. The potential for clandestine intelligence acti;

vities would be too obvious to bost governments, and the empbasts

2(Rs)

---

## Page 4

14-00000

- 3 .

since its W II activitles there.

6. CCS/IC on occasion receives requests for advice to busi-

ness ortenizations as to setting up security systems at overseas

Installations.

Involving a major oil company, to the Physical Security element of

the Security Office.

arrangement to advise wactenhut of such requests, providing que own

Security Office 1s satisfied es to Weckenhut's competence. TWe 24

could then

1f desired,

should his company successfully

secure the contract.

T. Wackenhut said he would be willing to dispatch teams to

set up personal security systems for foreign chiefs of state

won the Ageney wants protected. He 1s amenable, in fact, to any

reasonable application of his capabilities to Agency problems.

He would be willing to negotiate financing in equitable propor-

tions in the event an overt operation, set up at Agency bebest,

were not financially self-susteining.

8. Wackenhut impressed me as a clean-cut, energetic, ambitious

young business man who 1s obviously proud of what appears to be

a superior organization of 1ts type. He 18 Interestin profits,

but 1t 1s my impression he is sincerely eager to do what he can to

assist the government and feels that CIA offers one possible oppor-

-tunfty. Incidentally, he eppears somewhat younger in person then

In the pictures appearing in the promotional material given the

writer.

9. Copies of this menorandun are being furnished those Agency

components which night have an interest in utilizing subject con-

pany. Inguiries may be directed to the uriter.

FRED B. YOUNGBLOOD

Chief, cos/iC

T:11.83

"'!!

(ERS

---

