104-10244-10327|
e i

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

uh peers ‘
MENIAAIIUM FIR: The Review Staff
i ATTENTION: Mr. alter Lider i .
VIA: SA/DD0 (John Waller) hd
SUBJECTS Docusentation of Castro Assassination Plots

REFERENCE: Review Staff 75/1696

1. Per reforont request, we have conducted & review of our
{les on incidents and tidividuals nentioned in the report elver
by Fidel Castro to Senstor teuovern. This nesoraniuy contains i
the rosults of our traces on the alleged assassination plots end i .
the Cuban jadividuals acntioned in the report. It must be borne
in aind thet our files are keyod prinarily to nanes of individuals
and not by incidents or plots, thoreby making the retrieval process
difficult. io project file bearing snecifically on the subject of 7
assassination has boen located. onetheless, what follows is keyed
to the cnronological order of the plots ss described in Castro's

report. . : i
A. Mid 1960. Nothing has been located in records which i
ties CIA 7 to this incident.

(1) Armando CUBRIA Ramos. According to CIA traces,
CUBRIA was @ long-time sabotace expert and uenber of Castro's 26th
of July Movenent until 1950, when he apparontly turned on Castro.
He was arrested in 1960 for organizing underground activity
against the Castro rogine and was sentenced to 30 yoars inprison-
mont for conspiracy. There is no record of CIA contact with CUSRIA.

(2). Mario TAULER Sacque. ile was atrested on 12 July
1960 ia Havana where ho was caught unloading arms clandestincly
introduced inte Cuba. There is no record of CIA contact with him.

82, IMPDET
, CL'BY: 059138

eee



3B. arch 1562. A cusber of the C.vans rentionued ta
the incideat wero tuiced exsloyed Sy this Alercy in the fielis
of iatellicence collection ans .arcuadatary activities Sranase
Cuba. is nataing im the flic- Fevicusd to supstaatiate
that th mission vas to assassinate Castro. Sone of those
meutioned wero ia fact involved ja clancostine tutiltration
into cuva for paryposes of catuering datcllizence aad
carrying out p: ilitary activitios in a ‘arch 136) mission.

(1) Husderto SORT Marin, There fs 201 file
on the individual, la soveaber 1500 SG2l,a disaffected Cuban t Z
governsent caployee, coatacted 8 Cutan working on our behalé
and atvised hia of his desire to work acainst the Castro
1 goveraaeat. unl Deceaber 1950 $Cal was placed uncer house
' arrest by the Cuban Covernaent dut escaped with the assistaace
j of usidentified iriends on 21 Leceaber 1960, tie was exfiltrated

witnout CIA involvenent, on 19 Fobruary 1961. Es \
ch 1961. and debriefed
on his Operational Approval f
: (POA) was requested for his use as aa intellicence source and

subsequently granted in March 1961. ile was rot again by a i Sn
CIA case officer on S$ tfarch 1961. Ho returned to Cuba i
Clandestincly oa or about 12 March 1961 without CIA assistance.
Shortly after his return to Cuba he was arrested and ta
La Cabana Prison on 11 April 1961. On 20 April 1961 he was
executed by the Cuban militia.

(2) Rogelio GONZALEZ Corcho. There is a 201 \
file on the individual. Our files indicate that he was H
Secretary General of the Revolutionary Recuperation Movement
Qm@R) in Nay 1960. ie was granted a POA for contact and ie
assessment on 1 July 1960.. In August 1960 he was net by & i
CIA case officer in the Washington area to bo debricfed. He H ’
was subsequently trained by CIA in tadio communications and Hee .
paranilitary operations. He was infiltrated into Cuba on igtraat| eerie
6 Septenber 1960 as part of a CIA paronilitary operation. He i
was provided with fuads, arns, and explosives. In Narch 1961
he was instructed to step up paramilitary operations in Northern

. Cuba. Ife was captured on or about 19 March 1961 and was executed
20 April 1961 by Cuban militianen at La Cabana Prison.

cn career

{

(3) Manuel Lorenzo PUIG Miyar. There is a 202 |
file on the individual. He was granted a POA for use in H
raailitary operstions on 29 November 1960. On or about i

O Narch 1961 he was captured and executed on 18 April 1961.

” SECRET

oe meine nnn ne arene hee cen nae tes meron ma

yonens


(4) Nenesto 7 2KICULZ Navarette. Our osly
record of subject indicates tuat he was Auvolved in ;ara-
military activities tor CIA.

(S) Gaspar boains TRUEBA There is
@ 201 file on tie intividsal. POA 15 curch
1961 for use as a legal traveler to Cuss port easent
in ntellisence coilcctioa sas paraasbitary operatioas. se
was trained in intebliseace gatacring ans coc ications
techniques. ‘ie was arrested 3 Apral lyth by Cusaa Ged,
Cozetier with 600 other prisoners. lie was executed 19 April
1961 at La Cabana Prison.

i
i (6) Lufento Jose FERNANDEZ Orteca. Thore is a
| 201 filo on the indivicual, Taere Ss no haown CIA. involveneat
: with subject. A one-tico Chief of the Cuban National Secret
Police, he was arrested on truaped-up charges ia April 1961.
He was execu
Mario and othe

(7) Rafael DIAZ Hanscom. There is a 201 file - f
on the individual. A POA was granted 2S Jaauary 1961 for .? aiateces
use in intelligence collection and paranilitary operations.

Ye received intolligence and paramilitary training. iio was
Anvolved in the 4arch 1961 CIA paranilitary operation and

was captured by the ‘Cubans. He vas executed on 20 April 1962.

ey Gabriel RIANO Zequeiro. One Gabriel RIANO
appeared on a ist of prisoners in Guanajay Prison as of =
Way 1971. Thero is no known Agency connection with RIANO. cf

; (9) We have no identifiable information or

_ Qndfeation of CIA involvenent with Dionisio ACUSTA Hornandes;
Oreste FRIAS Roque; Eduardo LEMUS Perez; Narciso PERALTA Soto;
er Pedro de CESPEDE Coapany.

\

i

t

{

{ €. June 1961. Nothing has been located in records 1
i which ties CIA to this incident. :

| (1) Juan BASIGALUPE Hornedo. We have no pertinent EB
t identifiable information on this individua:- \
: (2) Guillermo COULA (aka CAULA) Ferrer. We have {
| no pertinent idontifiable information oa ths individual. i
7 (3) Higinio MENENDEZ Beltran. His namo appeared

| on a list of prisoners in Guanajay Prison in Pinar del Rio,

H Subee ‘There is no indication he had any relationship with

H i :
| ’
1

!

i

1

i}

; ce |
7 * SegeeT |

on 20 April 1361 together with liumberto sort ?


1s. nentioned

. D. July loti. Seae of tle inJivics
in the re;ort were anceea enpacyee vy tn38
pilitary actavaties cirectcs e:aics: Cura. 7
confirsation in tie recorcs reviewed that their
assassination of Castro.

mission was

va
()) Failto Adolfo RIVERO Caro, There is a 201

file on this fjadivicual. ite was granted a POA 33 January 1261 ;

for support of parazilitary ofcrations a. ava, lie was . {

clandestinely intiltrated into Cuva in a CIA o;eration oa

3S Marca 1561, ne was arrested on or atout 9 ‘arch 191. As U

Of Lovenbder 1572 he was bolicved to be held nrisoner in Cute. . f

H (2) Adolfo MENDOZA, He is probsbly identifiable i . i
with Adolfo CCNZALLZ Siendoza. There is a 221 file on the

individual, An Operational Approval (CA) was grantod for his \
use in paranilitary operations against Cuba. te worked as a F gtetiines:
Yadio operator for infiltration teeas. te left Cuba via the i f
Chilean Eubassy and traveled ‘foxico/Panana/Chile. lie later
left Chile for londuras. There has been no contact with hia
since 1962.

(3) Jorge GARCIA Rubie Caro. There is a 201
file on the individual. A POA was granted 30 January 1961
for use in supporting paramilitary operations. lie was
Anfiltrated into Cuba in a CIA oneration on 3 March 1961.
He was arrested on or about 9 Hay 1961,

i
!
(4) Jose Leopoldo PUJALS Mederos, There is a
202 file on the individual. ile was working for CIA at tho
tine of his arrest on 9 Ausust 1961. First recruited in
Bee 1960, a POA was granted on S January 1961 for use in para- ;
| ‘ militery operations. There is no information contained in ‘

the filos reviewed which indicate he was involved in assassi-
aation attonpts.

: . (5) Alfredo IZAGUIRRE. Thore is a 201 file on
the individual. fle was recruited in 1960 for use in intelligence
gathering. In Septeaber 1960 ho was trained by CIA in paramilitary
operations and inftltrated into Cuba on 29 September 1960, when
he began organizing resistance groups at CIA direction. Ile
returned to the U.S. in February 1961 for debriefing and
i returned to Cubs i. May 1961. In July 1961 he reported that i
Sabotage operations were neing planned for 26 July isdl. A
Cuban refugee confirmed his arrest in July 1961. Thero is no
information in the files reviewed to indicute that he was
directed to attempt to assassinate Castro.

aane ea crane aperrtes ree SeionnE, | Sees ee _ i

ow

* SECrET

ree

he


Seca

(6) We have no i3eut
record of coatact wita Jose A.
QUINTAA Goazater, satael al vl.
Diss.

juole iznforzatioa or
ADAL 2os2951,. Ezalio
3 Haceo, or Jose A. CAKCIA

.

E. July 1961. Althou:
Telationsaips wita various inci
Yeport, over a long period of tice and relating to a variety
of operations, there is nothing in files reviewed to indicate
that CIA was involved.in tie described incicent. Tiere is
also notniag in files reviewed to indicate that any of th
individuals mentioned were directed by CIA-to assassinate

CIA had operational
uals sentioaéd in the

. Castro.

(1) Tony VARONA, There is a 291 file on the
findividusl, A POA was requested in August 1957 a3 a source
of information on anti-fovernnent activities in Cuba and
later anended: for use ia political actioa activities. ile
and organizations he represented wera provided with aatorial
and financial assistance in prozoting aati-Castro activitios
dn Cuba until approximately 1962, There is no indication in
his Eile that he attenpted to assassinate Castro or sought
CIA assistance for tnis purpose.

(2) Manuel RAY Rivero, There is a 201 file

on the individual. A POA was pranted for use. as a political
actioa agont on 25 Octoter 1960. CIA provided, support to a
variety of autononous anti-Castro groups, including the oae
ropresonted by RAY. In July 1966, ‘subjoct reportedly developed
a are to assassinate Castro. This plot was not atCIA direction
and no assistance was provided for it. CIA's relationship with
subject ended in 1967.

(3) Aureliano SANCIIEZ Arango. There is a 201
file on the individucl, Subject was first contacted in
Septexber 1948 and used sporadically as a casual daformant
on Cuban internal politics. A POA was granted on 12 August
1959: for use in political action activities. He was debriefed
occasionally by CIA but after 1960 he was not used operationally.

(4) Francisco CIANES Armas. One Francisco
CHANES is listed as an official of the.Cuban Secret Revolu-
tionary Service (SS) in May 1960. The namo of one Francisco
CHANES appears on a list of prisoners held in Guanajay Prison
as of May 1972. There is ne record cf any CIA contact cr
operational reiationship with subject.

N

ae fas
saeeeene asia eee

aE

oe



(3) Alfreco Ruperto F:
traveled to Yexico, -rasil, and t s

1950 as a Cavan agent wita the aission of penetrating antic

Castro orcaaizations. ere is no record of any SIA coatact
wita or operational relatioaship with surject.

DIZ Gasez. Subject.
in approxizately

(6) Florentino FERNANDEZ Rodriguez. iis nase

appears on a list of prisoners held in Guanajsy Prison as
of May 1972.

(2) Segundo GONZALEZ Genzalez. He is listed as
an agent of the Cuban xevolutionary Secret Service and special
agent to davestizate aiti-castro activities in Narianao, Cubs
fin 1959-1960, There is no rocord of any CIA contact with or
operational relationship with sudjoct.

(8) We have no identifiable infornation or any i
Andication of CIA contact with Roberto COSCUYUELA Valcarcel, H
Orlando ULACIA Valdes, Francisco GIL Cruz, Jose ACEiA Quintana,
eat Pedro ASCARATE Carbonell, Angel del TORO Perez, Aurelio HCANANDEZ
i + Marnol, Jorge VAZQUEZ Fernandez, or Mario CHASES do Armas.

BF. 13 Septender 1961. There is nothing.in the files
reviewed to link CIA with this incident. One of those mentioned
An the roport was once considered for use in paranilitary

operations but was not actually used -in any operation.

on (1) Antonio J. FERNANDEZ Rodriguez, There is a !
201 file on the individual. <A POA was requested. for subject's i
use in paramilitary operations on 21 Septeaber 1960. The

request later cancelled and subject was not ultinately used
in any capacity.

(2) There is no isfornation available-on Juan

Jose MARTORE Silva, Nanucl BARRERA Lopez, or Acelio LLERENA
Morales.

G. October 1961. There is nothing in the records
reviewed to indicate that CIA was involved in this incident.

(1) Bernardo PARADELA Ybarrecho. Our files 1
indicate that subject's nane appeared on a list of Cuban
political prisoners in carly 1907 who were to be released

through efforts of the Mexican Red Cross.

(2) Raul FERNANDEZ Trevejo. Subject's nano
appears on @ list of prisoners held in Cuba at Guanajay
Prison in Nay 1971. .

seciel

eon

fee


“report dated 13 Juiy

(3) 2ern,

A Minter. According to a

SIA, possibly icentifiadle
with subject, was active iu aati-Castro orgaaizetions.

(4) Ruderto COWZALEZ Gonzalez. One Rupert
GONZALEZ, possibly ideatifistle with subject, was sentenced
to 20 years in prison for anti-Castro activities in Cuba.

. Ne was arrested Decenber 1963.

H. Early 1962. Althouch CIA had an operational
relationship with one of the priacipals sentioned in the
report, there is notaing in tho files reviewed to indicate t
that he was directed by CIA to assassinate Castro.

(1) Julio HEPNANDEZ Rojo. There fis a 201 file
on the individual. Subject worxed in the Jirectorio
Revolucionario Estudiaatil (SAE) against the Castro government
inside Cuba. We had our first contact with hia in Septeabor
1961 in tho U.S. and provided hia with sone material assistance
for paranilitary operations. lils POA for use in pararilitary
activitics was granted 3.January 1962 and cancelled 83 ‘iovenbor
1962. The date of his return to Cuba has not been established.
He was arrested in Cuda in approxinately October 1962 and
subsequently. sentenced to 50 years imprisonment.

(2) Raul CAY Hernandez and Raul CAY Gispert.
Our only trace is on onc Raul. CAY, indicating that in Decenber
1963 he was suspected of being an agent of the Cubsn internal
security service. -
(3) Huaberto GOMEZ Pona. As of September 1962
subject was reportedly orgsnizing Cuban resistance groups
among Hasons inside Cuba.

i - (4). Jose Luis CUERVO Calvo. In 1962 subject
was roported to be srand saster of the Masonic Lodge in Cubs
and leader of anti-Castro Masons. fie was arrestod by the
Cubans on 21 September 1962.

I. 13 March 1963, ‘There is no indication in files

_ Feviewed to indicate that CIA was involved in this incident.

We had sporadic contact with only one of the subjects nentioned
dn tae report. Although xs had several contacts vith hin,

he was not under our direction aad our lest contact occurred
two years prior to the alleged incident.

!
4 .


‘
roy
cD

in
—_

Mzindo DIAZ Ane. There is a 231 file on.
the indivicual. CIA was in sporsdic contact with sudject
froa approxizately jarcn 1yv0 uatil sid lyul. ie participated
dn the sy of Pins invasion. Zhe Ageacy nad no coatact with
hia after aid 1961.

7 : (2) Yo found no fdentifiable information on
Ganuel CAXABALLU Moreno, Ricardo OLD) Moreno, Luis David
RODRIGIEZ Gonzalez, Jose Antonio LUPiZ Kedricuez, oF Juan
Lucio MOKALLS Sosa. .

J. 7 April 1963. There is nothing in records
roviewed to indicate that CIA was involved in this incident.

(1) We have no identifiable information oa or
any indication that we evor had contact with Enrique RUDRIGULZ
Valdoz, Ricardo LOPEZ Cabrera, Jorge Carlos ESPINOSA Escarles,
or Onorio TORS Perdono.

K. 26 July 1963. A review of files indicates no
CIA involvesont in this incident or record of any CIA contact
with the principals centioned in the report.

(1) Rene SIGLER-SANCHEZ Evias. The nane of one
Reno SIGLER appears on a list of prisoners held in Guansjay
Prison, Cuba as of Hay i971.

(2) Jesus MONTES de Oca Cruz. He “ds listed in
1953 as a Conaunist Party neaber’-in Cuba and his name appears
aa on a list of prisoners held in Guanajay Prison as of Hay 1971.

(3) We have no Adentifiable information on
Blidecer RODRIGUEZ Suarez, Ibrahin MACHIN Hernandez or Oscar
SIBILIA Soria. .

L. 28 Septenber 1963. Nothing has been located ia a:
tecords which ties CIA directly to this incident. i

(1) We have no identifiable information on i
record of operational interest in Orlando Nartiniano de la
CRUZ Sanchez, Juan Israel CAZAiAS Leon, Jesus Placido RODRIGUEZ
Mosquors, Luis beltran Federico. iiRUNDEZ Gangelez.

(2) Pierre Juan DIEZ de Ure. There is # 201
file on the indivicual, DIEZ is identified in our files as
a French-born naturalized Cuban citizen. iiis filo indicates
that he wes arrested by the Cuban G-2 on 17 October 1963.
Thore is no record of sny operational interest in hin,

so

ene it arse man te



i
&

seek

(3) Frenct
trece indicates tat Fr
Cubsn G-2 after
do ure aiter cis

'‘ de los Cuetos. Cur only
isco ACO was arrested by tne *
a cenounced by Pierre Juan DIit
boted above.

M. March 1964, CIA had an operational relatioaship
with both of ts as meatioacd in the report at the tice
of the iacicent. 3 ana 1544 both persons sade proposals
to CIA to assassinate Castro but in each dastance they were
told that CIA aad the USG did not condone such attexpts and
no cosnitazents were nade.

(1) Mario SALASARRIA Aguiar, There {3 © 201
file on the individual, A YOA was Toquested on subject for
use a3 an operational support asset in an intelliceace
gathering net inside Cuda. We did not deal with hin directly
But coucuaicated through third parties. In early ‘arch 1964
subject proposed an operation to his contact to assassinate
Castro and asxed for pistols, a submacaine gun equipped with
a silencor, several .30 caliber machine cuns, and soae dynanite.
On 9 March 1964 CIA advised his contact to tell subject that
CIA would not holp hia in this effort, According to CIA
records, subject and his accomplice were arrested in June or
July 2965 and soatenced to 30 years continoment.

(2) Bernardo MILANES Lopez. Thore ts e201

file on the individual. le was recruited in Deceaber 1963
to be # source of intelligence within Cuba. At the tine of
Bis recruitnent he told CIA of his plans to assassinate
Castro and other Cuban governnent officials. ‘fe Said that
he was one of the principal conspirators involved ia the
pict: together with tiario SALABDARRIA Aguiar. Subject reque ted

TA assistance for the.attcapt. CtA inacdiatoly informed hin
that the USG did not condone such atteapts and no commitments
were nade to assist hin.

: N. Hid 1964. Some of those mentioned in the report
were indeed working for CIA at the tine of their arrest.

of the subjects reportedly tried to poison Castro but there
is no indication in the files reviowed that the assigned
nission of the group was to assassinate Castro or that the
poison was provided by cla.

£1) Osvaldo Valentin FIGUEROA Galvez. - Our only
Yrace on subjsct is that his nans appeared on a list of
prisonst? being held in Cuba at the Guanajay Prison as of

ey 1971. There is no record of any CIA contact or operational
velationship with him. :



(2) Fasoa GuAu-alsiza.

Tere is a 221 file cn
th, iniivicual, Es was lev

~~
ed ty CIA as “ead of an tntedli-
gence Serine net at t s.of his arrest oa 21 January ¢

Los was couvactscd of espionaze oa tenslf of CIA. There

is no indication in his file tnat he was cirected to assassinate

Castro.

(5) Leopoldina G2au Atsing (sister of Ranon GRAU ¢
Alsina). There is a-201 file on the inéivicual. A POA was
granted for her use as a source dateilicence in her
brother's net on 17 Marca 1361. lowsever. sue was terainated a
on 18 Noveaber 1963 duo to insufficient intellisence production ¢ |
and lack of operatioual security. Oa or about 7 Septeader 1954 :
At was reported that Lespoilana Gia Alsina was under suspicion + ‘
in connection with an avorted assassination atteipt on Castro. a
However Leopoidcina GRAY Alsina was not arrested uatil 22 January ;
196S slong with her brotacr, At that tine she was accused of
counterrevolutionary activities ani atteapted assassination $
of Castro. A separate report indicates that the Cuban faternal ‘
security organs uc allerelly found poisonous substances in if
her residence. There is nothing in tae files reviewed to +

‘

i] _dadicate that Leopoldina was directed by CIA to assassinate
eee. or any record to indicate that the poisons wore provided
: y CiA,

1

|

1

|

1

|

(4) Alberto GRAU Sierra. Ife is a distant cousin '
‘of Leopoldina G?AU Alsina, He was arrested on 7 September 1964 é
for an aborted assassination-attenpt against Castro. Ne can

find no record of any operational interest in him by CIA.

(5) Alberto CSUZ Caso. At the tine of July 1966
alleged attospt to poison Castro, subject was working for L
another U.S. intelligence organization. He was suspected of :
_ being a double agent of the Cuban internal security service.

(6) Jesus Manuel CAMPANIONI Sotisa.’ There“is a t
201 file on the individual. At tho time of his arrest in
January 1965 he was enployed by CIA as a monber of an intelli- +
once net gathering information. There is no indication in Hi
Eis file that ho was directed to assassinate Castro.

: (7) Ye have no identifiable information or any
record of CIA contact with Ranon GRAU Sferre, Roinaldo FIGUEROA
Galvez, Folipe ALONSO Scrrera, Jose Manuel RODRICYEZ Cruz or
Santo do la C. PEREZ Nunez.

0. September 1964, Nothing has been lecated in
our records which indicates CIA involvenent in this incident.

10

eS

 SREpa ; |

Geeerenitsn esac oe te erg rete


have no izertifistie i:nfcrastion oa
foash dsterest in AS Ferezty,
CIBIA Viraa, or f@okans zole.

or record of
Aagle Miguel AC.

(2) Cregorio Reynaldo DIES? Solane, Tho only
infornation on suoject lists nia as @ prisoner in Cuanajay
Prison as of May ly7l.

P. Early 1965, Nothing has been located in our
wecords which ties CIA to tails incident.

Q) Julio Onar CRUZ Cecilia; Fernin CONZALEZ
Carballo; and Giralio Reynaldo LIEGI Solano. e nave no

identifiable inzoraation oa and to vecord cf opecational h :
interest in thea.

(2) Rotando GALDOS Rensoli. One reference —
identifies subject ss Cuban Arny Lieutenant in approximately

May 1960. : . 7 if

reviewed to link CIA to this incident in any way.

i
i Q. July 1968. There is nothing in the records

(1) Enrique ABREU Vilahu, We have no identi- 1
@ieble inforsation on subject or any indication that we
had any contact with hia. ”

2) Carlos Vicente SANCIEZ Hernandez. We
have no record of any CIA contact with him. One Carlos
SANCHEZ declared Persona non Grata from Miami in 1962

. because of affiliation with Cuban intolligence.

(3) Julio RUIZ Pitaluga. We have no record
ef any CIA contact with hin. lie was reported by a Cuban
refugee to have been a major in the Cuban Revolutionary
Arny until 1960 when he becamo a menber of an anti-Castro
organization. le was arrosted by the Cubans in July 1955

and as of September 1966 was believed to be held at La
Cabanas Prison. :

201 file (14 volures} ‘{s currently under intensive review
by e staff menbor of tne SSC and therefore treatment of CIA
relationship to CUSELA and the others mentioned in the 1965
fncident will net be sncluded in this memorandum, Once the
SSC staff nenbor has concluded his review and selected key

docuxents, we will screen and forward then to the Review

Staff separately.

!
Re 1965. Rolando CUBELA Secades ct al. CUBELA's |

a SeCtel

oe eee

he
. l
a



S. Nid 1965 ani vay 1966. While sone of the x
individuals were consasered for use by this ani other USG
agencics, they vere not ultisately ezployed by CIA and
available records i:dicate we were not coanected with them
at the tine the incisents occurred.

Q) Antoato CUESTA del Valle. There is « 201

file on the individual. Tie was considered for use by CIA

in carly 1961 as a crewaan for a CIA vessel involved in ‘ :
maritiza operations. Tne file does not reveal whetaer he

was actually uscd but all interest ia hia wes terninated in

mid 1961. He was sussequeatly reported to be a leader of
"Cosantos LY, a iti ebased anti-Castro exile organization,

He. was captured ta “ay 1966 after being wounded wien his

group attecapted to land a team of iniiltrators near Havana.

CIA had no connection with the operation and the file Joes

not confirm that ho was involved in an assassination atteapt
against Castro.

(2) Eugenio Enrique ZALDIVAR Cadenas. Thore is
a 201 file on the iadividual, indicatins an interest in him
dn April 1906 by another USSG agency. His filo was closed on
7 June 1966. lie is identified as a menber of “Comandos L".
No furthor information is available.

(3) Sandelio tlerninio DIAZ Garcia. There is 4
1 a 201 file on the individual. Tne file was opened in t
i September 1957 because of his involvement with Honduran and Hl
i Costa Rican revolutionary activities. ile was debricfed by
a CIA case officer in September 1963 as a Cuban refugee.
" At that tine ho clainod to be in contact with anti-Castro
. groups in Cuba and stated that he wanted to assassinate
i. Castro. He indicated his intention to return-to Cuba innediately.
Wo dropped contact with him at that time and never did have an
operational relationship with bin. In January 1956 he was
: reported to be involved in a plan by a Cuban caigre group to
infiltrate Cuba for the purpose of assassinating Castro. On
ik’ 30 May 1966 ho was identified by Radio Havana as a neaber of
"~ g conaando group killed while trying to land on the island.
However, in August 1973 aa Individual with the sano none and
| 7%, of birth was repertedly involved in narcotics trarficking
Costa Rica. A Cuban exile source stated that ho bolioved
subjoct to be ddontic! with the narcotics trafficker in
| sat a Rica. There ds no‘further informatica te substantiate
Bo

a

‘SECRET

pesuvee


(4y
file on the indivic

al.
1963 in reso

So to ais ed:
another USS acy., Tae relationship with hia was teraia-
ated followi his arrest in ‘dfaai in January 1v€4 for illegal

use of narcotics ani possessioa of explosives ent autonatic
woapoas. .

T. 17 March 1967. A review of-files does not
confirm that CIA was involved in this incident.

(1) Felix ASENCIO Trejo. There is a 201 file
on the individual which indicates that a POA was granted
on 4 :farca 19 since subject was of interest to us os o
possible canlidate for paranilitary o7crations against Cuba.
The POA was cancelled on 20 Aucust 1404 with no indication
that subject was ever actually used operationally.

(2) Wilfredo NAXTINEZ Diaz. Wo have no positively
identifiable information on this individual.

a (3) Lazaro Gustavo ARECES Alvarez. There is a
201 file on the individual which indicates that a POA was
ranted 7 July 1964 for intended use as @ seanian aboard a
IA vessel involved in maritine operations, Zhe POA was
cancelled 8 Septesber 1964 with the indication rhat the
subject wat uot hired.

U. 1971. There is nothing in files roviowed to

“indicate that wo had any contact with the subject nentioned

in the report or wero involved in the alleged incident.

(1) Jesus DOMINGUEZ Benitez. No CIA tracos on
subject were found.

2.. It is noted that the above totals twenty-one separate
analytical sections whereas there aro actually twonty-four
alleged assassination attcnpts. This is due to the fact that
the analyses of the two incidents of 26 July 1961 have been
conbined since thoy both occurred on the sane day and wore
allegedly executed by the samo group. The treatment of the
alloged June 1965 poisoning, attempt is part of the analysis
of the mid 1964 incident because the alleged pcpotrator is
Teleté! to the srouj described thercin. The incident doseribed
tn Castro‘s report as mid 1905 has been combined with tho
analysis of the 1966 incidont since both were allegedly carricd
out by the same group.

as

____ SECRET



lace

ened

3. In sussary, of tne tweuty-foar inciceats cescribe
in Castro's resort, t.2 files tewed Initcate that CIA Ee

hac ao is tin Ciftces Ver cases: fee, erhad 4
any ceatact wits tse inlivicuals stiontd or was not ia
Contact with trier at the tine of the alleces inciseats. In
tho resaining nine cases, CIA hat ovorational rela shins.
7 with sove of tho istivisuals sentioned dat aot for the purpose
i of assassinaticn. It is soted tiat.one caso is currently
beiaz reviewes by a S5C staff aecter for selection of Jocurents
to be sanitized. This case (#olando CULILA Secaces) was not
reviewed in co: ction with tais nesoraniun, of the twenty-
three cases reviewed, nothing has deen found to substaatiste
the charces that CIA directed its areats to Sssassinate Castro.

Rayaond A. Yarron
Acting Chief
Latin Azerica division

Distribution: ‘
Orig § 1 - Addressee

Haat SA/DDO-

DC/LAD .

1 - LA/COG/Chrono - i -

1- LL. Therry 7 fiiatas

. LA/COG/OPS/L. Therry:kk (11 August 1975)

