Tyod-t007210316___[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

<> DISPATCH

‘CASIFICATION

[SECRETRYBAT

PROCESSING ACTION

LaA2EED FoR INDEXING

iv

Chief, WOLINE

fo 208 [no moexne aquireo

wo. Chief of Station, London; Chief, WOMUSE; over auaurieo osx
Chief, EUR Division JCAN JUDGE INDEXING

Faw -
Chief, LOPIPIT/London cRorU

SCION REQUIRED - RRO

ia)

virtually full time

Reference: OEPA-984, dated 18 March 1968

wy

2. As you are aware, RODIGAST has developed excellent Aontacts
with individuals active in the Paris SNCC group. Identity A, whe
i increasingly active in the

group (which largely centers around several

young girls recently arrived from the US)
rather important role since she brings to

axticulsteness VRich the “=:

to this.

and hes come to play a
it a sophistication and

L. AE
Attachment: u/s/e (2) ee
i ae oe le @. /Continued.../
i Biographical dat: =
Distribution: wee 070d 92726
| 1 = fronts w/ates TOTS 5 éy 4 1533
LY C/auR w/atts 4 tes 4. 6
(~ C/#OMUSE w/att s onthe ce
2 = COS/London w/atts Aes co (Of Gse sa
RS BSRET DiPATCH BOL AND WOMB Tae :
I7 April losa
CSSHOTON TSF NOME

SECRET/YBaT

1no_6-148/z



CONTINUATION OF. =!
DISPATCH

what she did at the publie discussion mentioned above... At the same
time she ‘is committed to the civil xights movement. You will note ®
* from the biographical data which we are forwarding under ‘separate |°
cover, that she has worked in civil rights.activities before and at.
One point-assisted in the organization of a march led by Dr. King. =
RODIGAST, who is a personal friend. of the- family (she is.divorced
and has a teen-aged girl) in addition to being the representative of
her pablisher, has gotten to know her very well over the past yéars..
“He reports that she is basically a loyal, moderate and anti-Commnist
person who. comes from a middle class family in Detroit where her *«_ 5
pareats were active in the anti-commnist activities of the United “=
Anto Workers. At one point RODIGAST had proposed her: for possible
use since she might be able to gain access to North Vietnam. This
was rejected, however, because she was:'thought to be too moderate, e
respectable and pro-American to be of interes

‘a unique opportunity to obtain the collaboration
“someone in:a positica to report on. the attempts. by ‘Communist,’ Castr
ist, and radical forces: to infInence and use. the civil rights mave—
ment. . Through her involvement *in-SNCC she. has developed ‘contacts. ~
Vietnam Rational’ Committee,

most. glamorous’ figure the SNCC:
yee Temverah Toster Se: ths! smc Sess
ies Ydentity A could easily develop int
‘Public representative. of ‘SNCC., Another candidate for
in SECC following the departure of Identity Bis the
f ‘Identity C—although she is somewhat shy and prefers
the scene. Thus we can envision a situation wheres.
“Identity A might become most influential,. if only by default.

RODIGAST is convinced that Identity A would be willing to
collaborate with her goverment but stresses that the approach to

° anti-Communist, and that’ sle does not share the beliefs of the _
militant black racists, although she certainly is a convinced ad-
vocate of the civil rights struggle. '. RODIGAST suggests that any -
approach to her mist stress respect “for her commitment to the civil: =|”
rights movement. This approach should emphasize that Communist. '*,/
exploitation of the movement is in the interest of neither. the move—
ment nor the nation and should request her collaboration. in report—
ing on foreign (and.only foreign). attempts to exploit the situation.
As an alternative to this direct approach, we believe that consider-
ation should be given to. the desirability of merely stating that.
becausether activity in the civil rights movement she has been =
thrown into contact with Vietnamese, Cubans, jetc. of interest to
WOFIRM and on whom we would welcome reports.’°this line has the
virtue of having less blow-back potential should our approach ba
Geclined and we would hope that once a relationship with her had->
been established she would volunteer information on SNCC and its
foreicn involvement. Reinforcing the approach RODIGAST suggests.
that she be offered a small. payment of,. say, $200 per month ‘to assist
her in meeting the obligations of living abroad.\. This payment will

2 0f:2)

530 USE erevious EDITION,

SBRCREWRYBAT

CONTINUED | e



any approach: to. Identity a,
she is becoming concerned

‘what appears to be an opportunity
able. to provide information,

TERE FEATION

SECRET/RYBAT:|



14-00000

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT 1 TO:
OEPA-1058

TDENTIPIES
ES

A - Carlene Hatcher Polite
dene fain

c - Julia Herve’

D - ‘he National Council on the Arts (usa)

OC



CARLENE POLITE
26 rue des Lyonnais
Paris 5e

PORt Royal: 66-52

) BIRTH DATE: « August 28, 1932
- Detroit, sfiehtgan
UeSeA .

EDUCATION: Detroit Public Schools — 1937'= 1049 (Diploma)

Hoy York City: -
To oa 1948 vw, 1858

DETROIT, MICHIGAN: .

Detroit Council for Hunan nights |
S014 Grand River avenui
Detroit 4, Michigan

Reverend C,L, RANKLIN, CHATRAAN ‘

“May; 1963 - November, 1983
Sep

Coordinatorf/Specdal Assistant to the, Chatman

Duties/Responsibilities included: © V3. °

Coordination of state-wide | organizations ‘tor June 23rd :
WALX TO FREZDOM WITH MARTIN Ee KING “s Cobo Hall Arena

Gaith cooperation of all related city and -Governmental Departments)

“Coordination and” complete organization of the
Sovenber 6th through Eee 1983 NORTHERN .NEGRO LEADERSHIP covrenince |





“NEW YORK CITY :

1s43 ‘19 59

"The Boyfriend’:
{Dark of the Moon *

aw The ears

“guest artist = yayne ‘State Univ. reity: + Potvoit. #
c Conversations dn, the: Arts. + 1960

“Guest Instruetor: (panies): Vayne: Stat University,
Dancer's, Workshop

YWCA.. ~ ‘cranbrook’ opdany oft the “Arte”
Detroit. Pepartnent. of-.Parks.and
: Recreation .

‘Dane er/Tescher’

