# 104-10077-10243

## Page 1

1104-10077-1024:

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SAS RS ONE = INDIA

3 DEE 63

INWAVE

HAMBURG

fo s

E.T

•iTT

DEC 6S 17

FRANKFURT MS

AT, 0/EE 3, C/SAS 5.

WAVE

HAMB FRAN

86666

RIPAT TYPIC MHAPRON (CASAILOR' AHTRUNK

1. ON 27 MAY 63 CASAILOR-35' CLAIMED CONTACT WITH 30 NOU

¡CROUP AND "DIRECCION UNIPA DE LA RESISTENCIA CUBINA," OR "PACTO DE

(PERACION" ) THRU FNU OROZCO, WHO VERY ADAMANT ABOUT NOT HAVING ANY

DEALINGS WITH KUBARK, AND ANOULEDGEABLE OULX OF BEING IN CONTAGE THRO

1¿5 WITH ODEARL & ODIBEA. (HATU 3905 IN 47743). AT THAT TIME WAVE

REPLIED WITH INFO ON 30 NOV BUX COULD PROVIES NO TRACES ON ENU OROZCO:

Z. IN EGGA 2627, 24 JUNE 62, C-35 DESTRIBRO FRU OROZCO AS ABOUT

33 TRARS OLD, CUBAN, AR OUNER DE THE JUANITO CAFETERIA, THE SAN

¡CURDO GIPSIDOTA, AND A BICYTE SMOP ON CALLS AMISTAD, HABANA. IN

LATE SEPT 63 HOWEVER, (BBEA-2713 30 SEPT 63), AFTER MEETING WITH FRU

CROZCO. C 35 DESCRIBED MIDI AS "ABOUT S0 TEARS OLD, GREY HAIR, SOME-

WHAT BALDING, DELICATE FEATURES, PROBABLY DORS INDOOS WORK, AND

ROBABLY A RESIDINT OF HABANA CITY"

1. TipF1DB8

SECRET

ANIMATTICATINO

PAPIELA

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Mise nui

SAS /EDE

• 7147

3 DKC 63

DJ INDEX

SING INDEX

IT ALEIN OS FILE NI

ROUTING

5

Peak II

DEFERRED

... —

ROUTIN:

WAVE

INFO

i CliE DIR

3. I9 VIEN DE DIECREPANCIES IN DESCRLFTION ON INU OROZCO AND

HIS ABSTAITION FROM IMARY RILATIOUSHIPS, BAPURST HAVE ADVISE OF

ANY JURTHIR IDENTIFICATION ON THU QUORCO ALE POSSIBLLITY ON RELATION.

SHIP WITH AORUN-9 BUS TO LATHS FANVIOUS aBATIONSHIP WITH ODIBES,

MIS STILTRATION, TRANSFER TO WBARK AND SUASEQUENE LOPLUSTER,

TRAINING, ADD INPILTRATION.

END OF MA

SAS/BOS/DE

blarke

Visual

1 FI

?.0.

REMSODUCIION EL GIMES IMAN ANE ISSUITES GIFICE IS PROHIBITED. EF

---

