# 104-10290-10191

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10290-10191

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

:. 1

in tie

307224

7507

Lin DIK

BOOK FARAGE AB

nate

30409

RISITIN

ANY VUY! UNG ROND FACT BIAB BAND QUIT BRIL RIOD DUEN

SAGA CARA SAVE OURT PAID BALY HUMI

PREANT

LATIN AMERICA BRIEF

(NOIDIN. IE BLANTO, ESTATENTS MIND RADASABLE TO LIAISON. )

COLSTRUCTION MAN PORNS; A DAY MEETINY C TAS NICARD SAM

8218.

NO ON BONAIRY IN FINCH AT CR WU SITS, BUT LAUNCH AND

OMAIC, POSTE A SITES MARIO AR UNVERAR SUTHENES AND

CUBAS TRNTS HAVE WINS SUICIAN. SOUTINY FINE TOL SICALS BITE WILL.

ABLY OR LOVED TO TAS NIN LOCATION, WHICH BILL AOS ST

PROTBCTTON FOR POET AND EYEI HAVAL PACILITTES IN MARTA DE ANSE ANT

I LATIN AMARICA: A NUTTI

BRUTATIVE OR LATIN

STRICAN CHET PARTIC MAY 1 50

• IN RIO DE JABINO OU CR

ABOUT 27 DIC

THE PURNINg ON TUX MUSTIEG YOULD IN TO MAKE FLATS

POR COUNTERIO TUS BUPICTED OS

ON CUBAN ARME SHIFTBATS. TO

ANELUELA

25118

SECHEST

algiercen

ALAHDDUCTION BE OUNER THAN THE ISSUMO GRACES PROMENADA

Cospir No

---

## Page 2

CHESTEDIMESSAGES

0:N0"%

THE IN CATHY. NO.

dia, norwa

-PACE TIC-

90605

RCUADOR- FORMER: JAINE

ALTENTES NO? CONSIDEIED

A TURBAT TO TAS NILITARY JUNTA UNICH DINER HIC OH 11 JULY, 118

COUTINIES TO FIOT A COUNSE

COTEPORT

10 OP. A SONER ON JUNTOR OrPICATE

MALIS IN YER ONSTEL PRO-

VICES/ "AR

DISTUSAICAS CA 26 DOC, A (D90I ACPION AT TIS MASS 8)

4. VERSZUELA; SUS COMI

TO OF NATIONAL

ON OFFICIAL ARPORT 2A DEC "TO LAININA SIS COURT AND TAR. PUBLIC

1S A STATE OF TUSSYON. " PALM EL

IS HAVE RESUND TERIR CAMARIGN.

ACAINST US-DUNED SNORERTY IN CARACAS.

AN ATTACK ON THE OPPICE OY

TAR MRADES DIGHAT. ON. 13 MIC TAS THE PIEST SUCH LICINEHY BINCS THE

1 D0C 21p.ian.

S: CHITRAL ABBICA - GUATEMALA:

CANISTERS

OF PANAMA

POTO ALL ON THE CONTRAI AMAICAN COUNTLE LICHT OCATA NICA- MBICH

TRADITIORALLY GAS BIT: SILPTICAL OF FONTAL MINITARY CANANTLATIONS

AND AGREENNIS - VERE ECHILID TO MET IN DUATSHAL CAT ON II

TO CONSINNA THE ESTARLIAMANT DE

O CARE MARIA DE

1:9 4 19 2 86112 801-9993

minanine a018e.

stairs on da farade Ladie d

•вілла іцмекои,-інллʼлодй.

---

## Page 3

-PAGE. THREE -

VXNSE "THE CHIEF MURFOGE CE THE BEDFOGRE DRCANIZATION EDULE

SE TO ADOPT JOINT ASASURES TO SONAT CONSUNTSM

"ITHIS THE PUF

TAS ISRATTA REGIME OF GUATEHALI. TUE PHINCIDAL BACKEN OF TAF MEETIN

HAS FUR A LOIG TIME PRONUTED VIE FOINAL ESTABLISHNENT 0P A DEFENSE

8, BOLIVSA:

EPER CUEBIONS STEING PRO TER EVENTS SURKOUNDING

TEE CAPTIRE AND RELEASE OF HOBTAGES BY DISSIDERT XIN. MINERS WILL BF

PRET POR A LONG TIME..

"THE SPLIT RETHREN DRONIDRAT PAL AND VICE

PRESIDENT LECHIN SXCH3 UNBRIDGEABLE AND AN HARLY SHOWDOWN RETUERN

THEM &8.8

EL LIOT TO OCCUR NEXT BUNTS SHEN TIETY DART

CONVENES TO ELECT CANDIOATKS VOS NEXT YEAR'S PRESIDENTIAL SLACTION.

LONGS LECHIN BONFD TO GOVERNST EASESTE IN ORDERING THE

HOSTAGEA ISLASTO IS STILL STARDURE OS A MILITANT PLATORM ME MAI.

ALSO HAVE TROUGHTS UP PROBOTING ARMED INSURRECTION, HE IS KNOWN TO

HAVE TOYED WITH TIS LDEA IF THE PAST:

MEXICO:

/ANXICO MILI. OPPOSE CENSUME OF CURA BY ORGANIZA

TYOU OR AMONICAN STATES (CADY POR INTEXIRNTION IN VENCZUELAN

AFFAIRS

ORCRET

---

## Page 4

1329997

9104911815

pete encar 1921010

90409

/POREIO EXTISTSE TELLO STATIO PRAT TAS PRATEAR POSITION, IS

"SET."' TRILO BELTIVES THAT TAO VAZUAN CHAS OS CASTRO ARIS.

A Me DArIA

IN 12 DEC PROSE INTERVISE, TELLO AS

RTED THAT THB DAS ITSZLI

18 TH A CRISIS, PARTIALLY AS THE RISUIT OP CURA A LACLUSION PRON THE

ORGARIZATION.

8. BUASIL: TRIRE 1S. GRISILE LISSISIIT. TES LEEDI TRIS PE

REBRUVYLED BEFORE LONG. PRESTERY COULAN KREPIRO HTE ON COUNCIS.

ON CHANGES HE MAX RE CONTEMPLATING,: FOSITION.OF FINANCE HINISTER

CARVALHO PINTO IB PENTATO SHAXINST INCATRE DE IE TALESPILÃO ULSBATIS-

FACTION ITH RAMPATT IMPLATION AND GATING UNESPLOTHENT. INO OTHER

CABINET JORS AND PRESUNTLY VACANT, BUT TINH ARE RO FITY INDICATIOTS

SÃO TTIL SE APLIATED TO TESH. COULAET IS LINELY TO CONTINUE AIS

PRACTICK OP ATTIUFTIE NO BILANCE OFE THE RIGHT AND LEPT, BIT SITT

A, LETTIST BAIS. (R8CRKT)

+o+5897174 gate.

C044 0914 74/0609444154

---

## Page 5

PISS LOHT COLIANS ISSON» A DECHRY DE IN DEC THAT BAY PRESAGE UF

LANUNIDATION OF US AND ONE ONHER FOURIGN-OUNED MISING SUNCESS ION IX

XMING OFBRATIONG UXTHIN DO DAYS AND TO HALT WITHIN 30 . DAYS ANY

OPSRATIONE WHICH PAIL TO NEET. CHETAIN CORDITIONS.

TENS MINISTER IS

GIVEN SUCH BBOAD DISCRNTION: THAT HE BAY. FOR EXAMS, CLOSE DOEN

MISING ACTIVITIE "CONIDERED FIRJUDICIAL. TO THE PUBLIC rITERS

FOREIGN MINING COTTATES HAVE BEEN TIME PEPPERS ASPACE ET TEE

ESTINS LEFT DURI"SCRIT MONTES, ANTICTELY IN THE STATS OF

STRAS CORATO VERNE 2 COVERIOR SIS TAI SUSA TO CARCEL CONCHIONS

OF MA/OUTED LANA MIRE CONTANY: (CORN

8. CELO. THE SLIM HOFRO OF CONUSIST-RACHED FRESINRNTIAL

ADIANT SALVADON ALLENTE HAT BR IFSOVS DY TIE PAILURE OF JOLTO

DURAN- TUS NONINES OF TIS RADICAT, LIESRAL, AND CORSIAVATIVS PARTIES-

TO CAPTURE THE PUBLIC'S INAGIMATION

IT THE DURAN CANDIRACY BROTE COILAFER: THE CONTIRT FOULD BE:

BATHERN ALLENDR AND CiTRIST SENORAT

DISENT RIGITINT JONGS PRAY PRESENTLY PROVIDESO AN SEENY OF

rEM;

ПіДДІДН•ВТТІСТН

1ors++o+4794999937

SECRET

HOODUCION A CAME MAGE TUNE CALL, DO009IM

---

## Page 6

ON (N254

A CS ME No

•6111

cuts me 904.04

- PAGE SIX-

UNCEFTAISTY. ESTINATES OF TUE JOSTION DE DURA'S RADICAL PARTY POLON-

I ERICH SOUL DO TO ALLIES RANCE TINARD PROM BION? PARRIE OF THE

GO? TAHE DERS PISSA STAYS IN THE MUS SOLAUSS E

BELIEVES UXE ON CHANCES OF DITSATING ALLENDS ARE BEST IN A THREE-

JAY CONTEST

PRAT IS GENERALLY EXPECTED TO WITHDRAW SOON, WITH SOAT 07 RIS

SUPPORT GOING TO FREX.. ON THE OTHER HARD, BEQULD DURAN DROP OUT

PIEST, YIS LIBERAL AND CONSRIVATITE VOTEE MIGHT DU TO PRAT AND THUS

AIRY THE INDEPERDENT IN THE RACE, PO THE ADVANTAGE OF ALLADE.

•1Д.

PERU: TH COVERIFY COALITION HAVEN EX PESIDENY YERNANDE

BRLAUDE TERMY APPEARS TOAS SCORED A MAJOR ISCOTT IN THE COUPERY'S

15 DR KUSCIEL BUATIONS, TO PLANT OF TITA RID MED IN POI

30. YBARS.

EX-MINISTER OF LETICO ANS GOVERNIEM CANDIDATE LUIS SEDDiA

AS AN UPSST TITOR IN THE IMPORTANT PACE DOE MATCA DE LINA.

DEPLAT OY TO FIST DE ES-FRESIDENT MANURE ORIA BURPRISED EVEN HIS

JAK FACTERS:

ELSETBARI, TAR BOVERTRE COALITION CANDLITES '"

STORES TAN DID TEX SILAVIDE TICHI IN LADY -UNE'S AIRMA

PETS ITIAL KLECTIO

The need weap mary they:

---

## Page 7

SEERAT

70401

72E AEAUAST DRFACEIONS AHONG THE OPPOSITION OCCÜRRED IN, TIS

ROSCROLES OS ON-GRASHAL ODETS INO PARTY"

TRIS IS ATTRIBUTED IX.

MACH OU POSITICAL COMESTON ON TES PARTY OF THE UNO, AS HELL IS

TO OPOSITION ASONG TEE DARTY'S KORE CONSERVATIVE ELEMENTS TO ANY

ANON AT WITH THE LEFTIST BUT. ANTI COMMUNIST AMERICAN POPIAR;

REVOLUTIONAS ALLIANCE CAPRA),:

KAPOLORS VOTES ARSALSO BETILATED TO HAVE BEEN OVEB 200

GOUSAND PHER THAN SIS DIRTY RECSIVED IS JUNE THE KBASSY FEELS

DUVE UP TIL FINAL RETURNS BEAR OUT CHIS TREND, IT ALL INDICATE:

TAILING TOUR APRA A DIERRETS DON VIENA ASLAUADE AS TIS BEST VE

TOLS FOR-PROGRESS CAÍRIDES THAN LONG TYS APRA CRADER VICTOR RADI SY

DF.

A coca

AND OF 4685A8

11 14

---

