# 104-10164-10082

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10164-10082

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

J. DERYDAL

UNIT

: 9EN

EXT

34.28.

CATE

Z1 AUVSHB3R 1954

+76-84-707701499

то

19211577058

POS: UIRECTOR OF CENIRAL INTELLIGENCE

0098:

TH 5

HеF0 :

FU, FO/OPS, FI/STCA

F1/RI

FLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SOCHET

DETHIS A. FINAN

6

925.70

2126Z 22 NOV 54

—BONESTEET

JOHN D. HECORHICK, ARE IPHARD EROWDER AR..

EDHARD BRO:DER

GABATINO, EDWARDO SARATINO, EDWARD SABATINO OLIVER

2. 2L POLSONINO IS A LETTER TRON SUWARD BROWDER OF BA BACADER AND >

ASSOCIATES, ENQINEBRINO CONSULTANTS, ALVA CBREGOR NO. 51-A, IBXICO D. Is TO

SHE RAINCE OPFERINOTINE LIFE ING. FUZZ COVERAGE FOR TORTHCONIO COSTA

RICA BEVOLUTION AND PROPOLITE SEND A EAT AIRCRATE TO DAZZAS, TEAS, TO

PICK UP LUCE REPRISENIATIVES AND FIX THEY TO REBEL BASE IN COSTA RICA.

XI DEAR MR. INOES

Pul

TAO TUS ATTACHED PHOYOSTATIC COPY OF A RECENT ARTICLE IN JISION

MAGAZINE YOU CAN QET SORE IDEA OF MI PIZISONAL INVOIVEMUIT IS THE CUNREAS

ENTRAL ALERICAN POLITICAI SCENS.

SINCH MI GANTS RAVE CHOSEN MY TO BE FOUCER DIRESTES AIL FOFSRTY HAN

ON SITS OLERAT L JULLITANISI LOVENES, I ANI IN A POBITION TO OMPER TOU

ISOLUSIVE RICHTS TO JUII COVERADE IN A JUIHT TIME-LUTE VENTURE.

2029 SINO A O-47 TO INTLAS, TIEKAB TO PLOE UP SO MORE THAN TAO OF YOUR

ANPALILITATIVUS, TUE THEM TO ILS RIRAL BASE IN COSTA MICA, TUVE THEM

OVA BAOIITT TO MATIN BACHNOUN MIELAL DETEC FISTS NO PRESOME KI

INDEX

AUTHONI

" 14 FUMRIODEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS

ПІФАТИМО ОРЕ

MESSAGE,

SODY NO

DALE

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DATE

поро

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRES

OUT 92570

22 NOV 5L.

PAGE 2

BARTER

ARE WITHDRAWINO LATERIALS. THS BUILD UP AND EINAI, PREPARATIONS WILE, TAKE

ANOTHEA 3 TO 5 WEEKS, DURING WHICH YOUR MEN WILL EM FREE TO ACCOMPANY ME

AND OTHERS INVOLVED, AND UPON COMUENCEMENT OF THE INVASION, THET WILL BE

PROVIDED LAID AND AIR TRANSPORT SIUS A DALLI MIGHT TO NEAREST AIRMALI

PICSUP POIRT JOR THEIR LATIRIAL, AID IS SEED BB, A HAIP-HOUR DAILY WILI,

'BB GIVEN THEN TO UTILIZE A RADIO TERENTFE CIRCUIT IN GUNNICIION WITE

POPICAL RADIO. THE ACTUAL LIBKRATION MOVIMINT WILL, LAST A MIHIMUM OF

J WITS PRIOR TO SERLOUS ATTEMPTS NITH SONER AND FIGHTER PLAYS NO ZAKE

SAN JOSE, DURILO THI SATIRE PERIOD COMOLODING WITH THE FALL OF TIQUIRKE

AND FEE INSTATZATION OP A NIN JUNIA, TOUR HIS HITE, ER HE QUISTS AND

CLY RAQUISTS, I ADDITION SO A MINTARY INTIRIST, JA JIAI 10U AGRIR 10

VIRTUED TROM FUBLICATION ALL MATURIAL UNTIL THE MOVIMINE IS ANTUARTI

ENDOM WAYS THAT YOU ALDO ARCE TO WITHILD TOUR SOUROS (E-I. THIS

ARRAYORMENT) PARTIDULANKY TROM US DEPARTMIXI OU STATE AB THAL THIHR I AM

DISHAT CS A PROBLIN DOT ANTHAT. ALSO, IMITAUR MARTO OU HE OLITATS ON

AHOReR

048

IT IS MORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

AUTHIMTIGATINO

Саду на

---

## Page 3

4-00000

ORIO

UNIT

EXT

DATE

FROM

CONF

шет0

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUY

5

OUT 92570

22 NOV 54

PAGE 3

ASSUME ANX RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE WELI BEINO OF TOUR MEN, ALTHOUGH ATI

MOIAL PRECAUVIONS WIZE BE TAKEN TO INSURE THLIR BEINO RETURNED IN

ORIGINAL CONDITION.

IP THIS INTIRESIS TOU, I WILL APPRECIATE A CABLE STATINO THE AMDUNT OF

MONEY YOU ARE FREPARED TO PAY FOR BXCLUSIVE COVERAGE AS OUTLINED HERBIN,

AND IF TRI AMOUST IS SATISFACIORI I HILE, CARLE A REFII, AND ANTICIPATE A

CASHLI'S CHICK OR BANY DRAFT FOR ONE HAZE THE AMOUNT ES RETURN AIRMAIL,

TE BALANCA TO BE PAID THON CONCLUSION OR THE HOVIHAT.

WON REORIPT 07 TOUR CHSOS, I WILZ DESPATCR A PLANS TO DAZZAS, TEXAS, TOA

JOUL BEFRASSHTATIVKS. THAY CAN CHIDE IN AT'

ASTIAN HILLA HOTEL, AS HE

QUEEND WHILE AWAITINO ARRIVAL OF HI FIANE.

THEY SHOUID BRUNO, IN

ARETION TO THEL FIOFENSIONAL SQUIPMAS, PERBONAL ASSAS NOR MENCANN ON

6 INESS, I WIIL BER THAT THEY AND PROVIDEO HITH IROPICAS CLASHESE,

SUNCLE BOOTS, TO. VARIE NO CIROUNSTAHONS ARE THIN TO BIQUIET TINA TO

CUULL RIORA SHIY NILI TATARO ANOH TEE UEA LEGALE WITH EVURISE DARDE

FOS MIXIDO MABLR ENTRI TO AND IRIT TRON DOBIA RICA WIRE ER MATULD EY

IS PROPLA WITH NO PRODLEMS, ME AXYANT DENNES HILL BA ATURNED SO DALIAS

!..

OPPIOL" IS PORTIDDIN TO MAKE À COPY OF THIA MESEACE

AUTHBNTIBATINS GYPIEDA

Вору На,

---

## Page 4

4-00000

ORIG

UNIT

EXT

DATE

• CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

FROM &

соми

ИНтО

OUT 92570

22 NOV 54

PAGE 11

IN ONE OF MI TRANSPORTS UPON CONCLUSION OR THE "FIESTA", THAIR HATIRIAL

WILL ES FREE FROM CERSORSHIP AND DIZAI IN TRANSMISSION AS I AND HE NISA

WILL CONTROL, ALL COMMINICATIONS AND TRAN, PORTS.

I DO NOT WISH TO DIBOUSS THIS WITH ANYONE OTHER THAN TOURSELS AND ASSUMES.

10T HITS RESPECT THIS COUPIDENTIAZ NATURE OF THE SITUATION REDARILESE OF

YOUR DECISION.

MY I HAVE EN IMMEDIATE RIFLTY

KHARD BACHDIAH

POD. 17 II IB ALZ, SANS 50 XOU, I HOULD HD LIXE TO BATE OBORONI

ON TAXO ASSIMIT, MOTILHO PERSONAL JUST TIAS I HAVE HAD YAE GUANOR

I CABIATE HIS HORS AND FERBONALITI AND THINK ANTONA 8Z88 HOUED TIT

DE LETTES OTEL AN INTENDED FIZZU OR TIMES.

IT 18 FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESUAGE

AUTWINTIDATINO

---

## Page 5

4-00000

ORIG

UNIT

EXT

DATE

TO

FROM :

CONF !

INFO &

z/PV

• CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEURIN!

BOUTINO

15

6

OUT 92570

ZE NOV 54

PAGE 5

COMONITONTE JURTHER O.D.(JANEBOS 8E MI NIN TOSE OTFION.

JORUAZATIRAT DATONI.

SVASTIGINION BATÜ BADEQDOUNO INFOILNION ON BUSTADT IN LEGIR JINIS.

•(8800 41 1838105)

= 2,

E nel]

V2/0n

---

