“'404-10120-10276) [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

8 May 1963

MEMORANDUM FoR: ‘Chief, Technical Services Division a

ATTENTION : Mr, (Cray Kellanor) ye ae

TERU 3 Office of Security/0SD
*, Attn: Mr. Gikas

Central Cover Staff
Attn: Mr. Jemes Frarklin

SUBJECT. - 3 Request for Official Documentation -
REFERENCE a_-WAVE E 8158 (1H 32980) .
noe : 3
“2. Tt 4s requested that a Jena

Civilian Identification Card be Issued in slizs to the SAS employee
identified hereunder.

2. The credentisl should identify the omlored
3
Sarr)

3. The credential will be utilized generally in the Southeastern
part of the United States and possibly in Latin American in pursuit
of the mission cf SAS. Further the utilization of the credentiel will
be ona oe (pests as directed by the Chief of Station, JMWAVE.

° The alias sot forth in the attached identity sheet hes been”
| pps/10s registered with RI; Pertinent biographic data has been cot forth on
| apps/10s the Identity sheet. a aa

[asst /10S 5. Photographs for the individual were forwarded to TSD on 6 May
1963. Subject's ee security number is (055-218-147) accoraing to the

HELE above reference,
c/OsD
To /SRD i 6. After the credential has been signed 4t should be forwarded to

a Lawrence, Sas/Security Officer, Room GH-56.
7. Any questions regarding the foregoing matter should be directed

© Mr, Lawrence, ext. 5009. ~~
eat
os ——

; Ss Se vinemer J. Ber
Lt¥achments 7 Peeeeee Chief, _SAS/Support

cr oSs/osD, Cos i a “lay



“ Balmes R. HIDALGO, Jr.

ALIAS a .
| ~ _o7 Z ae
DOB: 27 Mey 19190 So
HSIGHT: 519"
WEIGHT: 165 Ibe.
EYES : Brown pee
HAIR 3 Black : sisi inin ks
SOCIAL SEC NOs O55-184237 © ee

an cae

