# 104-10186-10080

## Page 1

104-10186-10080

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AR ORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

in ese Marional palent ol lao Doltod Blares mehta ine meaning of the Laplouago Lava. M

18, USC

inlaiton or revelation

1 TRiés in any manDer to an unaulhorised petion la probibited by la

SECRET

NO FCREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT "Ulises 'Delmar" (an alias)

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

CS C1-316/00601-65

9 February 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

(page 7)

8 July 1964

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

• PLACE: &

Hashington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

..THIS IS. UNEVALUATED

INFORMATION: SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE' APPRAISAL OF CO

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1968.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided

by the source and Includes supplemental

Information fron the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action

on any of the

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

1.

"Ulises Delmar," who also uses the allas "Ulises," is a

specialist in South American illegal operations in the Direccion

General de Inteligencia (Geheral Directorate of Intelligence -

DGI). Sometime prior to 1962 he served in Chile, but because

of a personal quarrel with "Juan Carlos," an attache at the

Cuban Embassy in Chile, he had to return to Cuba.

2.

"Ulises Delmar" was born between 1935 and 1940.

He is

about five feet ten inches

tall,

-has a slender build. He is a negro ghs about 145 pounds, and

Headquarters Comment

1.

The repords of this Agency reveal no additional identifiable

information on "Ulises Delmar."

5

4

3

2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

alertione

TBI 2

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

NAVY

I NSA

7 XXX

OCR

REPL CINCLANT

CINCSO #

I&NS

(Nore: field distribution increted by "#".)

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION RERORI

WH/CA/EOB L NE:

C/R&A

TIELCAYADAN

ILX 1825;

LX 235%

13.

LE/RRIILSE

NO PROJECT (A'INUG 1)

WHILSA/R

WIL/SA/CI

104

WHASH/BRIA

IcSc1-316/0080D-65

HIDLAN

HH/ HAVE

COOROIMITING RELEARIJO

TOTALS WH/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2), CIA, RID 1

LIAISON #

BLS:LD: suk

CI/RET

19-5-1

*. TIN'S

(23)

4|9M

---

